First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., MAY 26. 1916.
NUMBER 15
Maui Folk Urged To
Help Celebration
Honolulu Chamber Of Commerce In
vites For Kamehamcha Day Maui
Chamber To Support Promotion
Urging that Maul join in helping to
revive the importance of Kamohame
ha Day in the- Islands, and that to
this end the people of this eounty,
for the present year, unite with Mono
lulu in making the day a bis occasion,
Raymond C. ISrown, secretary of the
Honolulu Chamber of commerce, ad
dressed a well attended meeting of
the Maui chamber, on Tuesday after
noon. Mr. Hrown pointed out that
the day is one peculiarly Hawaiian,
and one which should be preserved.
Honolulu, he said, does not want to
claim a monopoly over the day. He
declared also that Honolulu people
are not. actuated entirely by mercena
ry motives In extending their invita
tion, but really want to show their
good will in seeing that the people
from the other islands have a good
time. Mr. Hrown stated that steamer
rates have been reduced 25 per cent,
and a. similar reduction in hotel rates
are to be allowed by all of the lead
ing hotels.
Mr. Drown promised also to take up
with the Inter-Island Company the
proposition of holding the Claudine
in Honolulu on Monday, June 12, un
til 10 or 11 o'clock at night in order to
enable Maui visitors to see the big
evening parade.
Mr. Brown's remarks were listened
to with interest, and he was assured
that Maui will be well represented at
the celebration.. F. F. Baldwin stated'
that It is possible that the Maui polo
team may play in Honolulu on Satur
day or Monday morning during the
Kamehamcha Day celebration.
Magazine to Boost Hawaii
V. C. Hodges, representing the
Sunset Magazine, was present at the
meeting and asked the Chamber to
support a special edition of his publi
cation in getting out a Hawaii number
in August. A committee was appoint
ed, consisting oi President Wads
worth, Secretary Case, and Treasurer
Lufkin, to consider the matter. It
was learned later that the Maui
chamber has practically pledged it
self to spend from $50 to $100 on the
advertising scheme.
Electric Company
' To Extend Service
Plans Soon To Build Lines Into Ma
kawao District New Engine To
Run Sunday
The big new Diessel engine and
generator which has been in process
of installation In the power plant of
the Island Electric Company, for the
past six weeks or more, will be given
a try-out. for the first time next Sun
day. As soon as the new unit is run
ning smoothly, and the gasoline en
gine unit has been thoroughly over
hauled, the steam plant will probably
be given a rest for a while, and the
plant will be in the best condition it
has ever been.
Superintendent J. C. Blair, who
mine to Maui tx install the new
engine, and who has decided to remain
plans to thoroughly overhaul the
entire system of the company as soon
as the power plant Is In good run
ning order. Following this it is stat
ed that steps will be taken to extend
the Company's lighting circuits to
wards Paia, Hamakuapoko and Haiku,
in accordance with rights given them
by the franchise amendment recently
approved by congress.
8 .
Many Goats Killed
In Kahoolawe Hunt
Two hundred and eighty-six goats
were either killed or captured in the
big goat hunt on Kahoolawe the latter
part of last week and the first of this
1 he hunt was under direction of C.
S. Judd, territorial forester, the object
beig to clear the inlands of deslruct
Ive animals which seriously retard
the growth of vegetation; this growth
being important to prevent the wash
lng and Mowing away ot the scant
soil of the island. Forrester Judd was
assisted by Khen Low and by menib
ers of A. L. C. Atkinson's machine gun
company, which came over from Hono
lulu to take part in the Hunt. Among
those in the party were C. S. Judd
h. 1!. Jackson, 10. I. Low, Lorrin
Thurston, Cordon Scott, Fred Water
house. 1'. O. II. Deverill, W. S. Roy
ciott, R. E. Wiiite, Kou, W. L. Emory,
K. Emory, A. A. Engl. 'hard. 1'. E.
Spaulding, II. E. Gregory, and L. P.
Scott.
Dillingham's Absence!
Broke Combination
Was Not All-Hawaii Team That Maui
Poloists Defeated On Monday
Many Enjoyed Pretty Game
Owing to the absence of Walter
Dillingham, who was unable to rnnio
on account of illness, the polo team
which met the all-Maul four at the
Kenhua field last Monday afternoon,
was not the famous All-Hawaii team
which three seasons ago upheld the
honor of Hawaii on the Coronado
grounds. Instead it was the Hawaii
Junior team a team which played
under the handicap of both unfamiliar
mounts and unfamiliar positions.
But in spite of this handicap the
Maui players, used as they are to each
other, the ground, and the horses, had
no easy time in healing the stalwarts,
as the score of G to 5 shows. The Ho
nolulu iVpresentalives were Arthur
Rice and Harold Castle, and the team
was filled out for the Monday game
by Frank Baldwin and Sam Baldwin.
Bob Shingle, who it was announced
expected to come .failed to show up.
The game on Monday was well at
tended, and was highly enjoyable to
the onlookers. The new field Is in,
excellent shape. It is doubtful if there
is a better one at the present time
west of New York. The game on
Saturday, in which Dave Fleming and
Sam Baldwin played wilh two visitors,
was one sided from a variety of
causes.
It is probable that the Maul team
will play a game in Honolulu on June
10. although this has not fully been
determined upon.
iff. , .
Lahaina Girls Die
In Midnight Blaze
Overcome By Smoke They Fail To
Find Way From Burning House
Booze Believed To Have Caused
Pitiful Tragedy
Overcome by the flames and smoke
of the fire which destroyed their home
it Lahaina, Eliza Aukai, aged 12, and
her sister Emma, aged 9, were burned
to death at an early hour Wednesday
morning. After the fire had burned
itself out, the two bodies burned liter-
Ally to cinders, were found in the
ashes.
At the coroner's inquest held Wed
nesday afternoon, the jury returned a
verdict that the children came to their
death from the fire which originated
presumably from a carelessly drop
ped cigaret.
The person thus presumed to have
dropped the cigaret, is Aid Akeo, the
grandfather of the dead girls, with
whom they had been living in a house
a short distance back of the new La
haina Store warehouse. Akeo, It is
said had been drinking, and bad re
turned home about 11 o'clock. He says
that he went to the kitchen and got a
cracker; and the presumption is thai
he at that time dropped a cigaret upon
the lauhala floor mat, which later re
sulted in the blaze.
Jennie Koko, the 13 year old step
daughter of Akeo, told the coroner's
jury of her own narrow escape. She
had been with the other two girls to
a moving pictuie show, returning
home about 10 o'clock. They bad at
once gone to bed and to Bleep. Later
she was awakened by heat and smoke.
She jumped up and awakened the oth
er gins, ana men matte her escape
from the house-she doesn't know how.
She found her father on the front lan
ai. The house burned bo fast that it
was impossible when help arrived to
render any assistance to the unfortu
nate ehildren. From tho positions of
the bodies it seems that one had tried
to escape from the front door and the
other from the rear, but both doors be-
'ng closed they were overcome before
the could get them unfastened.
A Filipino, attracted by the fire,
heard a noise inside the house near
the back door, and thinking someone
was inside, he got an ax and attempt
ed to break the door open. However
when he forced the upper panels the
gush of flame and heat was so fierce
lhat he was forced to beat a retreat.
Another Filipino, who was asleep in
an adjoining apartment of the same
building, had a narrow escape, jump
ing through a window when the pas
sage by the door was cut off.
Akeo, whose carelessness is sup
posed to have resulted in the tragedy,
has been living alone with the girls
for some weeks, his wife having re
cently left him on aceount of bis fond
ness for liquor, according to Informa
tion gained by the police.
-8
The executive committee of the
Maui County Fair will hold an import
ant meeting next i uesday evening at
the Wailuku Town Hall.
Next Tuesday is Decoration Day.
Money Subscribed
More Than Needed
Splendid Showing Made By Flood
Relief Committee Plan Proposed
Of Permanent Relief Fund
If the recommendation of the cham
ber of commerce is adopted, a per
manent emergency fund is to be es
tablished for Maui, to be drawn upon
in any case of general disaster, where
prompt relief measures are necessary.
This suggestion came about following
partial report of the relief committee
organized at the time of the storm
disaster in January last. The report
was made at the Tuesday meeting of
the chamber. It showed that there
will probably be between $1200 and
$1100 left on band when the commit
tee closes its work: and this, it is pro
posed Fhall form the necleus of the
fund. In as much as the relief com
mittee was appointed by a citizens'
mass meeting, the chamber of com
merce was able to act only in an ad
visory capacity.
Over $5,000 Expended
The report of the committee show
ed that it has relieved in all 115 cases
distress caused by the great January'
storm, and that it had spent to dale
$5,221.43. Of the total donations
amounting to $.6893.80, a balance of
$1,672.37 remains on hand, but a num
ber of claims will probably have to be
met before the final report is filed.
The money subscribed came in to
the committee without any solicita
tion on its part. In fact it kept com
ing after It was clear that no more
was needed. The committee, howev
er, adopted the policy of not spend
ing more than it believed occasion
warranted, and hence the balance
which it will have on hand. The mon
ey was received from sources as fol
lows: Japanese $i (525.75
County of Maui 2.500.00
Corporations 1.500.00
Lahaina Community 513.80
Miscellaneous 754.25
Total $6, 803. SO
The Japanese were the henvtest
sufferers, and besides the money they
contributed the amount of relief af
forded and materials supplied t them
far exceeded that of any other nation
ality. The money was snent bv the com
mittee as follows:
Japanese $2,235.60
Chinese qnn so
Hawaiians 612.90
loruiguose 515.00
First Relief 742.65
Expense of work 184.48
Total $6,893.80
Relief was afforded by nationalities
as follows:
Filipinos 22
Portuguese g
Spanish 5
Hawaiian ; a
Chinese 00
Porto Ricans q
Japanese 73
Total 145
The committee consista rr- t? a
Wadsworth, Clem Crowell, J. Garcia,
J. II. Kunewa. N. K. Otsuka, Dr. Os
mers, and L. R. Mathews.
Alexander House
To Be Incorporated
Mission Boards Relinquish Control
And Directorate Will Take Charge
To Broaden Scope
Application Is BOOn to hA niniln fnr
a charter for the Alexander House
settlement. Tiis siction has btven
brought abot bv the pom mi Hon In
charge of the Settlement in order to
iiuuuen wie scope or the institution.
A request was made to the Maui Aid
Association and through it to the Ha
waiian Board, asking them to relin
quish all authority over the Settle
ment and allow it to l.ecmie nn In.
dependent institution. Both of tliese
associations tiavo concurred in this
request.
The plans for the future call for
the establishment of an incorporated
association which will be known is
The Alexander House Settlement As.
sociation and which will have a large
representation from all over the Coun
ty. Thi8 association wilt have n lwi:.nl
of directors who will be the governing
body of the Institution. The Settle
ment will become an enlarged institu
Hon whose purpose will be to carr
on a social service program through
out the coili-itv. In the nsist lie in
stiiution has been confined entirely to
Wailuku.
The committee, at present consists
ot lollowing:
Dr. W. D. Baldwin, President: R
B. Dodge, Secretary; H. B. Pcnhallow
Dan Carey, Dr. Osmers, Miss C. Tin
ner. Mrs. II. B. P.nhallow.
Would Locate High
School On Beach
Curiimiltee May Decide To Accept
Tender Of Site Near Spret kelsville
- Paia Ball Grounds Also Talked Of
Considerable Interest still obtains
concerning the location of the new
Maul Central High School building,
which hiiK been made possible through
th" generosity of a number of Maul
rilt:;cns in subscribing $25.0110 for the
purpose. As slated in last week's
Mfilii Xews. the county has airrecd to
spend another $5.nn for equipment.
A committee consisting of Chairman
Kahuna, of the board of supervisors,
I). ('. Lindsay, of the school commis
sion, and II. W. Iliee, representing the
donors, has been selected lo select the
site for the building, there being a
strong element In favor of changing
from the present location at Hamaku
apoko. A site for the school has been
offered at Paia on the niakni side of
the railroad depot, and including the
pro-cut h;tse ball grounds. Another
urged on the committee js on the
bench near Spreckelsville, and con
venient to the railroad.
Of course the Hnninkunnoko people
and the Haiku patrons are strongly
opposed to any change from the pre
sent sile, which is amnio in size and
has other advantages, but the Haiku
influence is waning and is uncertain
for the future, so it does not seem
unlikely thai a new site for (he per
manent struct lire may be decided
upon.
Row Over Player
Threatens League
Both Paia And Puunene Claim Alvin
;d.son No Game Last Sunday
Deadlock Still Holds
Harmony is a thing that doesn't
seem to be holding very closely to the
Maul baseball league this year. Indeed
the present indications are not at all
bright for the continuance of the
series. There was no game last Sun
day on account of the row, and there
probably will not be next Sunday, un
less a peacemaker of more than ordi
nary ability gets busy pretty quick.
The principal bone of contention is
Alvin Robinson, one of the best all
round players in (he league, who is
claimed by both Paia and Puunene.
Robinson played last year with Paia,
and had no small part in winning the
cup which that team now holds. He
contracted to catch for the same aggre
gntion some time ago, but later
accepted a position as electrician with
the H. C. & S. Company, and is now
living at Puunene. He wanls to keep
on with Paia, but both Puunene and
Wailuku (1st Battalion) won't stand
for it. Foster Robinson, of the Paia
team Is reported to have declared be
will not Pitch this year if Brother Al
vin doesn't catch him.
And so the matter stands. A meet
ing called of the Maui Athletic Assoc
iation for last Wednesday night in
hope of straightening out the difliculty
failed to get a quorum. How it will
end, isn't easy to say.
Libel Suit for $20,000
Filed Against Hotel Man
Claiming to have been seriously in
jured in the community by certain
statements alleged to have been made
by W. H. Field, proprietor of the Maui
Hotel, A. J. de Souza, manager of the
Maui Wine & Liquor Company, has
filed suit for damages in the sum of
$20,000. James L. Coke and Enos
Vincent are entered as attorneys for
de Souza. The petitioner alleges lhat
the scandalous remarks made bv Field
to two different persons, reflected seri
ously upon his character and business
integrity during the time he was
manager of a large hotel in Manila
ue .--ousa is at present heading a
hotel project for Wailuku, a company
having recently been incorporated
under the name of the CI rami Hotel
i oinpany. Willi a view to erecting a
new hotel on the Lyons property at
the corner of Main and Church streets
A C'HILDRKVS PARTY
Master Walter Pcholtz Weight.hav-
Ing attained tho age of one year, was
tendered a birthday party last Thurs
day afternoon at the homo of his
grandparents. Mr.and Mrs. Ooorgo
Weight, High Street, Wailuku. Tin
lovely grounds and lannl were br'iubt
wilh daintily dressed children who en
joyed to the mt mo -1 the tames and de
licious refreshments, provided by the
ho.-less About forty children and ad
ults were present to tender felicitat
ions to the young guest of honor.
GERMANS GAIN GROUND
AT APPALLING COST
French Agree That Terrible Assaults Have Forced
Them Back-Villa Bandits Routed-Mauna
Loa Again Active Lava Flowing
On Kau Side
HONOLULU, May 2 British censor in Samoa refuses to pass
win-less message fmm Georg Kodick. (1crm.ni consul in Honolulu, to
American consul in Samoa. Message asked what route prominent Ger
man was to take so wife could meet him. No reason for return of mes
sage given except that censor refused to pass it.
Mayor Lane tells Rotary Club how money may he had. Opens
campaign for bond issue for public improvements. Hacks up frontage
tax for municipolity. Roads in country districts must be built from
proceeds of bond sale. e
Oalui Railway will install system of block signals. Kxpcrt arrives
from mainland to erect modern safety plant.
WASHINGTON, May 26 Business men almost a unit for de
fense. Commercial organization affiliated with chamber of commerce
returns preparedness referendum with approval. Program of general
si a IT sweeps country by vote of 970 to 8. Many branches of national
body ask congress for legislation to safeguard peace.
W ilson thinks that mediation is not timely. All belligerents must
desire peace before good offices can be extended.
LONDON, May 26 Official statements from both sides declare
nothing like struggle now taking place, has been seen in this war.
Losses of crown prince reported to be frightful. Teutons hurl masses
if men against I-rench positions only to be thrown back, but weight
;ains ground at last.
PETKOGRAD, May 26 Great Russian army joins British forces
in Mesopotamia.
WASHINGTON, May 26 Carranzistas have routed Villista
band. 23 outlaws slain. Villa's commander, General Avila, killed and
his hand scattered.
NEW YORK, May 26 Dr.F. C. Waite, young dentist accused of
having poisoned his father-and mother-in-law, tells court he is a con
firmed thief. Father of Dr. Waite says insanity runs in the family.
WASHINGTON, May 26 Representative Tague, of Massachu- '
setts, would have U. S. mail for European countries dispatched in
n arships. He would have cruisers given instructions to fight to last
ditch in case of interference.
LONDON, May 26 Russians break German attack on Attstro
Gcrman front. Latins have checked terrific drive of Teutons.
WASHINGTON, May 26 Russian hospital ship deliberately
sunk in Black Sea some weeks ago, is report.
TOKIO, May 26 N. Y. K. boats ordered to touch at Honolulu.
LONDON, May 26 British steamer W ashington sunk by subma
rine. No report of casualties.
WASHINGTON, May25 House republicans demand a bigger
navy. Want a dreadnaught and many more submarines to be built,
i louse republicans in their report denounce the naval appropriation
estimated by the democratic majority, declaring it to be altogether in
adequate for the navy increase which must be made, and saying that
the biggest features of the expansion program have been ignored by
democrats.
President is said to be thinking of a plan for peace, having dis
covered the possibility of intervention by neutrals.
New Army bill reached the President today but was not signed.
Secretary of War Baker decides for courtmarlial for the lldmili
l la men who refused to report when the state national guard was called
out for border service. The President is to apimint personnel of tri
bunal to hear noted case.
BERLIN, May25 French counter attack today at Commiers re
pulsed. Germans captured trenches southwest and south of Douau
monl, and Ilaudremont quarries.
PARIS, May 25 French admit that Germans have gained quar
ries and they also made gains east of Commiers.
HONOLULU, May 25 Great Northern is coming back on per
manent route. Fast service will be resumed on November 7,says wire
less from W'aldron.
Tourist crowd is sure, say promotion heads. With the coming of
ihe new Matson liner next spring, traffic will be record-breaking.
Deficiency of water supply seen at fire. Manager of water depart
ment says fault lies with system. Bonds are needed. $2,000,000 to in
crease Oahu Sugar Company capital, is the rumor. Street hears there
may be a million in stock dividend and another million sold at par. Re
port is unconfirmed, no action having as yet been taken. Mill enlarge
ment and water system would be covered by the increase.
Publicity put an end to the gambling on railroad train. Action by
company and employers of workmen follow upon exposure made.
Early morning blaze destroyed frame cottage owned by Manuel
Richards at Kahili. Place was rented to soldiers. No one was in house
at the time of the fire. No trace of fire's origin.
HONOLULU, May 25 British Red Cross contributions are in
i-xcess of $2,500. All nationalities were among donors.
I'.ishop Estate sues to recover Kawailoa land. Action for eject
ment of Waialua Agricultural company filed in circuit court. Tract
said to be worth about one million dollars. Trustees claim sugar com
pany has tailed to cultivate tract as agreed.
Hawaiians bilked by countryman. Territorial officials hard on
trail of alleged land sharks. Woman wants property deeded to W. K.
Dimoiid, who swindled her. Says 30 acres of land obtained from her
by swindle.
PARIS, May 25 Bavarians break hold of Gaul on Douaumont.
Two fresh divisions hurled into attack after five successive failures to
succeed in smashing through French defense. Gen. lVtain clings to
immediate approach. Comiers on Verdun front is once again scene
of fighting. Germans win initial conflict but are reversed.
W ASHINGTON, May 25 Navy bill carries large increases.
Mea-uve reported by House committee appropriates $2-K),(XX),000 for
iuiv y purposes.
I'.l-'.KLIN, May 25 Supply of meat in Germany put under ban.
licrlin government issues order placing entire output in hands of
bu nan.
