THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and probably to-morrow,
moderate west winds. I
Highest temperature yesterday, 77; lowest, 58.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on page 13.
IT SHINES FOR, ALL
VOL. LXXXIIL-
-NO. 26&.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1916. CopyrWif, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
PRICE TW CENTS.
PRIESTS DENY
PLOT AND CALL
MAYOR A LIAR
Charge Kingsbury Tried to
Secularize All Relig
ious Wards. ,
$100 FOR DR. POTTER
REFERRED TO AS BAIT
Jlonsignor Dunn Says He
Knew Wire Was Tapped
and Tricked Police.
FATHER FARRELL
ADMITS PAMPHLETS
Says He Never Urged Wit
ness to Flee City or Of
fered Bribe.
The Catholic priests charged by Mayor
Illtchet with conspiracy to obstruct Jus
tice and to wreck his administration, .is
It applied especially to the Chaiitlcs
Department, entered their case Into the
record of the Thompson committee yes
frday. They made general denial of
the Mayor's conspiracy allegations and
two of them charged he lied.
They retorted by charging that his
Charities Commissioner vvutked with
Mher Influences In an effort to secular'zo
tue charitable Institution" In general
CVliollc, I'rntestaut and .Jewish alike.
The only antagonism on their part, they
a cl, existed against the adminlstratio.i
i.i i. oil,,..,! rr.,ii , i.,,.,..!-.,,., , ..u'.
im is amsed etToit to Interfere witn ,
U' telisious welfare of the wards of
t i..t The tmi-t Important features j
lie days testimony were these:
.ijipe tre.I from the testimony of thi
,
Jos-eph r. Dineen. secretary to Aux-.
.... .. ,
. Ill!iiiiii llaes or the New York 1
,, . . .... . .
..IkKese. tnat one of the tapped tele-1
if ciuivcrs.itiou's winch the Mayor
. il took place bttneou Father Itlneen j
i 'I Dr. I). C. I'otter actually occurred
IsMten Father Dlncen and Mgr. John
J Dunn, chancellor of the archdiocese.
had been aatitiitrloetl y the uilml.v
Is ration that only three telephone wlies
i-re tapped by the I'ollee Conmili.hlo.ici's
Mer In connection with the chanties
I in stigation those of the Rev. William
H. IVrrell, Dr. D. C. Totter and hie soi,
l?,in I'otter.
MonilKiiiir Vehement Wllnru.
Mir Dunn declared that "the onlv
"j:i..pl .icy thu far developed Is the one
i.i "men lie (the Mayor) figured ra ,
I'lom.tiently and In whose Intereat he
u reil so untiringly and lawlessly." lie '
'.vt't.Hneil that "wonderful changes
a e viilently taken place" In the re
innveiatlons. He pounded his
. .. fi.i table and asserted that It
ji "open secret that a charity trust
's -uppoited by the Standard Oil.
' ' Ito . lii-feller Interests, the Sage
Jmlatliin ami others who have only
- aim. the n'cularlzatlon of all char
fie i!i-tliutluih to take Uod out of
i- l,e.irt.s of the children." which, lis
t"'l, the Church will not permit.
Wsr Dunn admitted merit Inn nf "n
idled" not dollars, though that was
I" Mi.. .Ir.11..... ..... '
1" 1111 Jlliat Oil III a ,.,IIV.. m .tl,.n n'llh
J' I'otter He added that he mentioned
I' a. an "inspiration to seize an op
I umt)" a "bait" which "they
' "bed as fish would rise to halt "
I kin w they would fall for It and
'I d he said.
I- i-.iitr Farivll denied In tolo the con
vi . tnm In which II appeared thai
- nail pmiiilsed to pay $50 to Dr. Put
t i i.. ,.,.) potior nut f juristic-
"f the Stiong commission. He
" ' 'l tlie authorship of the alleged
'ii iall lllieluus pamphlets In thu
:u Ins controversy He said he 'et
''' - Ins attack on the Mayor in lettera
11 'i- wrote on the Mayor's promise
'" imnert" tli charitable Institutions
' '1 U"l . oi renew It until he found that
i" .Maior lied."
M tins
Hum. Kdther rrl 1
i.i men, ne was not connected with any
nai liable institutions, but was a dlrec
"r of the Williamsburg Hospital, a non
Kdaruii institution. As far an the al
lesed cmnpli.icy with Mgr. Dunn was
I'ucenied, h.. said he did not knaw
ier Dunn until March 12 last, when
'"' met the chancellor at the Strong
lie.ll,,,g
rather Farrell testified that when he
in i met Deputy Charities Commissioner
.lllani J. Doherty the latter Impressed
'", '' bis talk about his "material
'o.idltlon," when lie ah 1 promised the
'.eigyinan any assistance at his com
inaiiil. The next time they met, said
" priest, Doherty displayed what he
w,'e allldavlts about condltlona In
miliary at Amitvville :in,l ual.l l,
as going ti, pass them over to Com-1
i" i-smner Kingsuury and help him do
iiy the Institutions." It was then, said
laiher Farrell. that he took up the
uUtnie of the Institutions.
s .ytir Wti f.rlns,
The Rev. Dr. James Hlgglns. super
of Catholic charities of Brooklyn,
"''e name also figured In the Mayor's
'e 'tal of the tapped telephone conver
"s'lor.s, denied the ebwrntlals of the con
"' ailoiiH attributed to him and charccJ
' Hie Mayor was "lying to hoodwink
' public by dangling 22,000 children
'' lie air to scare us,"
"r I) C potter began bis side of the
' T.timeisy just before adjournment and
" r-lf-.l trying tn evade service of a auh
ia of the Strong commission. From
lire,, n to March 26, he said, he
.nted for a summons, but nonn came.
Putter also amused the assemblage
the hearing room Jammed Just as
I -htlv na when the Mayor appeared on
H'diy and Wednesday by Ida recital
'f the "mystery of the yellow bag" In
'oiiiifrtiiin with the charities In
ligation. Tin- Major said last night that hn was
' II undecided as to when, where and
his charxes of perjury, criminal
" ", (onsplracy to utter the alleged libel
i ciinsjiirKey to obstruct Justice and
UHc.firti with tho administration of the
Ciii I (it tied on ,ajf rage.
PROP. NOYES TO ENTER WAR.
Head or F.iiallnh Department al
Princeton Will Sail Monday.
Pattfcrrov, N. .1,, May 23 Alfred
Noyes, the ttrlttsh poet and piofessor of
English at Princeton University, will sail
In company with his wife for Kngland
Monday on the Nleuw Amsterdam with a
view to entering Uie wai.
"I think probably 1 Khali engage In
ambulance work In Kngland," said
Prof. Noes. "If t cannot set Into the
regular army 1 want to du whatever will
be of the most Use and go nhete my ser
vices will count for the most."
Prof. Novea has no doubt of the result
of Uie war.
"So far everything Is working out
exactly as the Entente Allies had ex
pected," lie said. "There have been seri
ous blunders, but they have been Inci
dental. Ajt for Kngllsh recruiting the
figures disclosed In the Asqulth report
ought to disprove tho contention that
England has not been doing her share,
for more than 5,000,000 men have volun
tarily enlisted. In case of war the
United States would have tn enlist some
thirteen million men voluntarily to main
tain a similar preparation."
FAVORS SAVING AN HOUR.
Mark Tall Mertlnu r nhir I
,,, f ..irf., ,., i
.lien to I onaltler Plan.
Horough President Marks announced
yesterday that a vote of borough em
ployees shows them to be unanimous In
favor of the movement to "turn the clock
forward an hour" and In view of this
he lias called n meeting of merchants
at his oltlce next Monday afternoon
at 3 o'clock to consider the adoption
of the scheme throughout the city.
He says It has been tried successfully
elsewhere and that among Its advan
tages are benefits to health, saving In ar
tificial Illumination, additional afternoon
hour for recreation, mnrrt rinvltoht fnr
borne workers, more efficient work In
iiiuut.ii titi piMiue aim ueuer coiiuiuons
for sleep.
ENDING STRIKES BY KINDNESS.
Fort Wayne Company I'rorldre
Chair fnr Pickets. Shelter In Hula.
For.T Watnk, Ind., May 25 I.'ndlng
strikes by kindness Is a programme that
commends Itself to the Western (ias
Construction Company of this city. The
company emphasized It faith In gentle 1
methods when It provided chairs for
striking machinist who nre picketing '
the plant, invited them Indoors when
It rained and showered them with small !
attentions.
Cninii tntit'hihlsls in llip pnmtuiiv'.
. . . : i
employ went on strike last Krdav.
Their principal grievance was wald to be j
J"'"'"--""" relations between ,
.iwk.via niiii-i ioi.il .i.i, .t,ft,v wi I
working conditions.
"Hut they are all good friends of ours."
.. . .
said the supei Inteudent of the factory
I....1,. l- .'U'a ll.l.. I.- a nrn, .1-!
. . . . .
mem. ror iney are oni nun irusteu em-1
plovcc.. We hav. nothing against them. I
mid I believe they have. In reality, noth
'ng aualnst us."
GERMANS NOW ADMIT
SHORTAGE OF FOOD
Sili'sinn Xowspappr Sn.vs It Ts
Time tn Furc Difficulties
anil Coiisp Dcrpptinu.
vt(nit t'ahU lifspntcf filar. 5t 1
IxiNDiiv, May 15 -The Germans are I
nt last nilmlttlnr; a shortage of food. A
leading article in the Srhlrtlirhr 7.ritwn, I
the organ of the great Milesian land
owners, says ;
It Is childish to continue always to .
hide the truth. Let us openly admit
inai llie uimcuiwcs iui o.iie arisen
mainly In the great towns are caused
not meiely by a lack
if system In the
'distribution of the necessary articles of
I food, but also by the fact that the
. ..... .1 .. r.t ...aI. n-llnl-u la
supply of such nrtlcles Is Inadequate'
The Journal admits that grievous dis
content lias sptead in all directions In
coneequence of defects In the system of
dp.ilin? ntth fhe food suiudv. and bones
that the measures Introduced In the new 1
Imjirilnl food department will Improve
the situation.
LESS GRAIN NEEDED.
Itelchalnir llenrs trmy ('iinsnnip
tlon llaa Fallen HIT.
Sp'fial Calilf ! iputci tn 1 nr. St v
Amstkrhmu. May 25. In the Reichs
tag In discussing the German grain sup
ply the ptesident of the Imperial Grain
Hoard said '
"To Germany's teseive of 400,000 tons
of grain must bt added 80,000 tons rep-
resenting the decteased consumption by1
the army."
Geotg lletnhaid In the I'onlsrie
y.eltuny, while crediting fir. Katl Helf
ferlch with success In organizing war
loans to the extent of 3ti,00O,0U0,0UO
marks ( t!,000, 000,000), says-
"Hut as regards tin- solution of the
question of taxation be has unfortunately
failed to show equal capacity."
Rernhard nrguts that HelfTerlrh's pol
icy was merely to tide over the war,
leaving a gient financial revolution for
the time following the conclusion of
peace, and added :
"There is danger that the bgacy be i
leaving behind will not be appi eclated ,
as a particularly glorious achievement in
tne rtel'1 ot Una"6'"
I
UKITISH ittiiMJ, xttAun numt
Mar They Would Have Mart fit Hill
for Food Nrnt From Kniclanil.
Special Vahtr Hfimtch to Tiir. Si
London, May 2". A batch of released
Rrltlsh prisoners reached London to
day. They state that they would have
starved but for the food sent to them
from home. They uttrlbuted the sparse
ness of the rations distributed to tlieni
to the condition of the country and not
to any malevolent intention on the part
of the Germans to starve them.
Ah showing conditions In Germany
one of the .prisoners mentioned cases
In which German civilians actually had
begged food from the prlnon camps.
Another of the returned men, from the
Wittenberg camp, said that conditions
were slightly Improved In that ciuni)
owing largely to the effotts of Ambas
sador Gerard,
Shoe Men Her llllthrr Prices.
Prin.ApttU'liu. May 2:.. Shoe and
leather men of the llnlted Status, reprc
sent lug 1200,000,000 capital, met to-day
to discuss the situation cieated by the
rle In cost of raw materials, with the
consequent Increase In tho retail prices
of shoes. It was agreed that shoe prices
must go even higher.
KING GEORGE SIGNS
COMPULSION BILL
All Able Hodied Britons Be
tween 18 and 11 Summoned
to the Colors.
5.011,000 HAVE ENLISTED
Crown Expresses Appreciation
of "Effort Ear Surpassing'
Any in History.
lr,.il table f)ttiittff, to Tlis Stv
London. May 25. Kin? George signed
to-day the military service bill recently
passed by the upper and lower houses.
The Kin after signing the measure
which, generally speaking, me.ins that
every male Hrlton between IS and 41
Ivears of age henceforth must tike his
'place In active or reserve dutv In the
military service. Issued to the people a
message In which he made public for the
nr,, , .... .,., -.,.. ,,..,1,1.
enlistment since the beginning of the
war
The message of the King follows:
ItfCKtNOltAU IAt.Acr.
To enable our country to organlr.e
more effectively our military resources
In the present great struggle In the
cause of civilization 1 have, acting
upon the advice of our Ministers,
deemed It necesary to enroll every
able bodied man between the ages of
IS and 41 jears.
1 desire to take this opportunity of
expressing to the people my recogni
tion and appreciation of the splendid
patriotism ard self-sacrifice displayed
In falsing by voluntary enlistment
since the commencement of the war
.1,041.000 men. an effort far surpass
ing that of any other nitlon under
similar circumstances In recorded his
tory and one which will be a lasting
source of pride to future generations.
I am innfldent that the magnificent j
spirit which hitherto has sustained our
people through the trials of this
terrible war will Insnlre them lo en. .
dure this additional sacrifice Imposed. 1
and that It, with God's help, will lead I
us and pur allies to a victory which
will achieve the liberation of Europe. ,
Gcoroe. It. I.
By the terms of the new conscription
.,a.w,..a 1 ' . 1 -1 m n I . rtrllfat. 1 1 K i ,
. . .. . .
no nas ai any lime smce aukusi is,
,..i- i... .u. i,., i.
or.llriarilj resident In (Jreat Britain, and I
wll attained the age of 18 years
lii.u tint f-nthrl tliA nffA or 41
I ears, sii.ui, unless he comes unuer cer-1
ja exceptions noted, be deemed to have.
mill tAirjiiiuiis nuim, um,,TU muni.
)(..n duly enlisted for general service
... .. J . . . . .
witn me colors, - or in me reserves lor
t,rriod of the war,
ThJrt y dava after ti
Thirty da after the passing of the
new bill Is the time et for the meiture
to become active.
RUSSIANS 30 MILES
NEARER BAGDAD ROAD
Turks Admit One of Czar's
Armies Is Making Fast Ad
vance in Mesopotamia.
periii rab'e ttitpatch to Tn Six
Constantinople, via I-onrton. May 13.
According to the official Turkish state
ment issued to-day a Russian army has
. '
i advanced fiom the Persian frontier Into
Mesopotamia as far as Sulelmanle. in
n(tl wltl, the Turkish army opposing
the progress of the Russian force 100 of
the invaders weie killed.
The official statement follows
The Russian advance In the direc
tion of Chanlkau has been checked,
At Sulelmanle on the Persian frontier
200 of the euem were killed.
The report added that hydroplanes of
Turkish troops had made a success.
f ,. la,i, during which bombs had
i been dropped upon one of the Allies'
inotdtors, and upon the harbor works and
aeioplaue hangars al Kephalos, with dis
astrous effect,
Conditions on the other ftonts remain
unchanged,
Cbaiilkan. a Persian town near tho
.Mesopotainlan frontier. Is alKiut 100
miles northeast of llagdad It has been
the s-cne of fierce lighting recently.
The Tuiklsh statement Indicates that
rapid progiess Is being made by the
Russian force. Sulelmanle Is about
thlrt miles from the Persian border and
Is about 14U miles east and slightly
south of the Turkish city of Mosul, on
the Tigris River Another Russian
army, which Is cooperating In the at
tack on Mosul, was last reported as be
rVXZrZ Z?nUono7,Rus:
? 1 slans. by seizing Mosul and the control
t r the upper Tigris, to cut off from the
ing about ino miles northeast of the city.
tear the Turkish armies fighting the,
liiltlsh near Iviit-el-Amnra on the lower
Tigris and the Russian army at Chanl
kau. FIGHTING ON TIGRIS.
nrltlsli
liuna Pound Turkish
Pnaltlnna nn Left Bank.
.Wie.-t'iil (alitf liespntch to Tine Si v.
Ui.Mion, May 25. The War Office re
port to-day concerning conditions in
Mesopotamia Is as follows:
Sir Percy Lake reports that on
Wednesday the enemy was still hold
ing his position on the left bank of
the Tigris in the vicinity of Sannalynt.
Our artillery from the right hank Is
maintaining an effective fire fipnn the
enemy's communications upon the left
bank of tho river.
British Reached, Sa Itnsala,
Uprcial t able Despatch to Tnr Sc.,
pKTitnnitAli, .May 25. The otllclal stale
men I hi.ucd by the Russian War Oftlce.
to-night regarding the operations of the
army of the Caucasus follows;
lu tho direction of Mosul the enemy
was lepulscd at Rowauduza, Cos.
sacks reached the headquarters of the
IlrltUh in my In Mesopotomln on Mon
day, Mniirii Shell Allied Warships.
Stecial ( able Ileapatch feTue Si v.
IIkiii.in, via Uindon, May 25. German
aeroplanes from the Salonlca front
dropped bombs over four allied warships
In the .Ugean Sea, Two tombs hit their
mark, according to the official German
utatcincnt.
HEAVY FIGHTING AT
VERDUN CONTINUES
Merlin Claims llecupture, of
Hniidi'oinont Quarry and
Doiiutiniont Lines.
CANNON F1HE TEH HI Elf! i
French Admit Loss of Trench
Element, but. Say They
Hold Other I'oinK
The Herman attack. on tlie east
bank of the Metie befnte Veidiin con
tinued Wednesday night ami yestetday
The German Wi.rotlh,. announces the,
ircupturp of the llaudromont quarries,
west of the village of Douaumont and
northeast of the vlllise of Hras, as well
a the taking of trenched southwest
and south of Fort Douiumuiit.
The French command admits the
capture of n tiench rim th of the quar
ries, but makes no mention of the tak
ing of the quarries themselves. A
trench element In the Dmtaumont
region was. lnl.cn In lit,. Germans In n
violent attack delivered elerday ,
afternoon.
On the west bank of the Meuse there '
was 11 lull In the Herman attack, while
the artillery kept up the tcrrltlc pound-
Ins; which usually precedes Infantry nc-
tlvity. The Germans announce that
repealed French counter attacks
against the Ullage of Citmleres failed.
GERMANS FAIL TO ADD
TO DOVAUMOS'T GAIN
Occupy Trench Klciuenl, Iml rr
Driven Hark Itrpentrdl? .
, ........
"prr,a! Cnbte PwUc, M Tut Stv
I'WMs, May 55. The Crown Prince's j
forces ho recaptured Tort Douaumont
0l ,e eaM b(ink f , ,MI(,r,ay
'
in--"" i..ii..r.. iM. iii.il huots. in'" i
afternoon with a series of attempts tolany degree of expert naval opinion and
force back the French lines between the
Hois d'Mauilromont and the Tlilaumont
fnrm'
This line runs
in a nnithueM and
southeast dlrerllmi. a little to the west
cf douaumont village, and Includes the
llaudromont quarries on the edge df the i
Ilols d'llaudromo,,,. northeast of Hras. ' AT.',1Vparentlv the only explanation that
The attacks weie begun at 5 o'c.'ork ' can . Kn for the programme sug
this afternoon along ibis whole sector j gested Is that It Is a compromise be
and were repeated time and again to no t'" ,noa' who wanted nothing In the
.,.,. . . ... . , .. ,, , way of additional naval protection and
avail, except at one point near the vll- lhov who ,van,fll 1)Ut mtle,.
lage of Douaumont, where the (lermans "The Increas In the navy carried In
occupied a licnrh ilimcnt. The nttHiks ' tlm bill Is mere arbitral-- allotment
are described In the Fronih "ftlrhit com-1
munlqu- as having he.-n accompanied by ol,rr ,,'aval Dower, whereas It Is the
heavy losses to the attacking lories. opinion of the minority that the navy of
The Germans made no finther Inlan- the Culled States should be reslored
try attack on the west bank of the Meuse to second plate b the Sixty-fourth Con
In the course of the day. but the In- gres.
tensity of their bombardment of the
French positions on Hill 304 Increased, liemninl llion PrtiHrnmme.
a fact which may be regarded as a fore- flr ,;,., aj.hie.il -ituation suggests
runner of another attempt to capture at on,.P ,1Val defence as our most cf.
this height. fuilve niians of protection. Our long
, coast line, our great seabonrd cities, our
The .Mht (mm il,,,..-. lnMI.,r p0.es. our sea borne corn-
The oftliial coniinunl'iu iunl tlio merce. the Panama Canal and our gen
lpnnli W;ir lift!,.., t.i.,i-.lit .
On the left bank of the Meue the
activity or tne enemy artillery in
rreasod In th" course of tl, ,la'j on
cur positions on Hill 304.
On the right bank, after violent bom
bardments, the Germans launched
about ." o'clock this afternoon a series
of offensive actions between the Hois
il'IIaudrnmont and the Tlilaumont
farm. All the attacks were repulsed
with heavy losses, except at one point,
where enemy detachments telzed a
trench clement in the legion of Ddu.iu
mint. Artllleiy nctlon-. continued with
great violence on lt.i side One
of our long range pieces caui-ed a Urn
In a German munitions depot at lieu-
i dlcouit.
Thele was an inlet nil'trnt can
nonade on the lest of the fl.ltlt.
In the course of an aerial combat
one of our pilots In ought down a
Pokker, which fell in the enemy llnrs
north of Vaux- In the legion of
Ltaln our squadrons engaged in battle
n group of. Gorman aeroplanes Two
enemy aeroplanes, seiiouslj lilt, were
forced to land.
nermann l.uln I'ootlnu.
In the course of Die npeiatlmis op tlm
cast bank of the thet last night tlie
Germans, repenting tluii attacks on the
region east nf tlie Cole du Pnlvre. gained
a footing
In a Fieiah trench north nf
tlie Hnudromont quail les, This was the
only Infantry attacks launched by the
Hermans o,, ,.,hW side of ,e v,r las,
1 "UK"'-
I gienade il. laclimniis made
some progtess In the gloves Just east of
the village or . umlercs, which the Ger- i
mnns occupied Tuesday night. Thcro '
was heavy artllleiy firing b Ihe bulteiles
of both sides all last night on the Hill,
.104 and Le Mort Iloiniiie.Ciimlere.s sec- '
torH
The afleinnon rnminuniquO was ns fol
lows: On the left haul, of the Meuse- there
has been an artllleiy duel of consldei
nble Intensity lu the sector of Hill .111 I,
as well as on the front between Lu
Mort Homme, and Ciimleies, i.ust
night wo made piogiess wllh hand
grenade lu lb" groves Immediately
east of the village of CunileieH. The
enemy mad" no endeavor to attack us.
On the tight bank a slnnig German
attack was suciessful In giving the
enemy a footing In one of our ttenches.
north of the quarries at Hinnlroninnt.
The bombardment Is ciinlliiuliig with
great severity on each side.
In the region of Douauinout there
has been no Inl'aiilry activity.
The night passed lu relallvo quiet
nu tlie remainder of the front.
German fin Inn IXIinalrd.
' slKlited than tne necreiary in una regard,
Military writers here estimate tlie I ilH made provision In the bill for an In
average gain of tho Germans, as the crtuse of 111,500 seamen, which is 3,500
result of their icpeated attacks on the 1 ,,j.B than our peace requirements and
west bank of the Meuse In tho last I 17,501) less than our needs on 11 war
month at 300 meters. (328 yards), while basis.
on the east bank there has been prac- ' "The minority Is strongly Impressed
llcally no change, 1 wm, w urgent necessity of providing
Paris Is not greatly loncerned over ,i thla bill for tne full number of men
the German successes or me tasi tnree
ilajs, regarding It as the natural result
of the alternate give and take of su
great a battle. It Is admitted that tho
tailing of Cumleres gives the Germans
eroiilitrierf on Third Pag.
MINORITY DEMANDS
TWO DREADNOUGHTS
House Itepublicans Attack
Xnvy Bill; Ask 0 Cruisers,
o0 Submarines.
9V00.000 FOB AVIATION
Any l.e.ss Would Fail to I'ut
F. S. in Second Place,
Says Report.
WasiliNirroN, May 23. A sevele at
tack upon the Administration naval bill,
wlili li Is characterized as falling far
",,on "f '"" He demand for ad.-
quaio preparedness ml restoring mo
United States navy to second place. Is
made In the report of the minority mem
bers of the Committee on Naval Affairs,
submitted to the House to-day.
The Itepubllcan members contend that
the provision for five battle cruisers Is
Insutllclent. "Wo therefore recommend."!
they ndd, "the authorization of two ,
dreadnoughts and six battle cruisers In J
this bill and feet that anything rhort
of this would not be making adequate
P',P-'-"'''"i for the national defence,"
Tl,e hl" not only falls to provide a
sufficient number of capital ships, the
report continues, but provides an In-
sutllclent number of men to man the
ships on a peace basis; 99
aeronautical cotps , too f.w 1
Inadequate
submarines
for coast defence; makes no provision
at all for a council of national defence
and places no tlmo limit on the ships
to b constructed.
The report Is submlttted by Repre
sentative llutler of 1'entisylvanla and
Is signed by all the Itepubllcan mem
bers of the committee.
The Minority ' MlncL.
Says the minority report-
"The building programme submitted
y the committee for the increa-e of the
navy Is Inadequate for the defence of
the country. It Is not the product In
disregards every plan suggested by
naval authorities for the development of
the navy. It Ignores the rwommenda
tlons of the Secretary of the Navy and
sets aside expert opinion as expressed
by the (5ener.il Hoard, the chief of opera
tions, the Admiral In command of the
iv..ts ;nnl every other naval officer ap
pealing befoie the Committee on Naval
",nd' wl,ll0ut i''11"'1 " t-ltlon of
,.i,r imi'v uw i-ninnnre,l wtlh that nf anv
eral International obligations all Uemaiirt
the spwdy restoration of our naval
nolirv inaugurated In IDCI
"This Is .specially true at this time,
.
: :::::.: 7;::rn::crii .l Ml Polo's stenographic
tlona, antagonisms are aroused'
policies of
s the" re-1
'
.. Atr 'r"JZ YL rc:r
,ne 1UU. .
port anus
"As the first and most Important step two other men no ki i w n t 1
towaid the .toratlon of our navy to! Miss Knley averted that on Nov..,, her
second place by the Sixty-fourth Congress IT an agent sent bv ( h ef lllclaskl of
It is our judgment that we should make the bureau of Investigation of he De
.. ... . J. fr ,lr....,l.l oartmeul of Justlci called upon her and
'nought" which' the .Sixtysecond Con- requested her to go to the Peai c Coun
. i ... ,.-i,i. i.ti.1 .-.Ian for .lx ' ell's olllce. Miss Foley did so and says
. batti" cruisers which should have been!
.. .
anthiirlzi il heretofore
I "We strongly disapprove of the policy
of tlie cninmlttfe in proWdlng for no
I dreadnought in this bill, Such action
is not f.ivoied bv the Sectetary of tlie note bonks and cnu-ed her to translate
.Saw. bv the General Hoatd of the navy, nil hei letters and telegrams. The Ict
bv the'ihief of naval operations or.ters and telegiams am teg.iriled as ex-liv-
general naval opinion, and If agreed tremely Important evhlenie. Il is said
to bv Congress will futthtr Increase the
existing shortage of powerful fighting
ships of the dieadiiought tj po.
I'nr Tito HxeailiiooBhls.
lnste.ul or uiscomiumns i. r m-
Hull nf dreadnoughts, we think il a wiser
policy lo authorize two or more at tnis
;,,. provide that they shall bo con-
"S . "T" '"for'thTr-VK
V... . ,'.,', ,,, xtuusln'ol. These olans
..... . i... i...... ...imilet.-il and enibic
V... i..,l, tn.unflit and the latest Improve-
Z, in" ntTval cimMrucUo,,: "iV" i,l.
emir- is pursued the two dreadnoughts
0,,ld be completed as soon .is. tlx- C - ill -
f,,n,ia and the Mississippi, elfeetlng a
saving In time of at least one year."
of the personnel situation the report
savs-
'To provide full complements for all
ilieadnnughts. predreadnoughts, cruisers,
emits, dcsti overs, submarines and tlie
' necessary auxiliaries now In the navy or have been uigcd by Mrs. I.ydla C.
that will be dining 1917 will require. , French, who Is tlie wife of an army offl-
S2.702 men, or approximately 31.(100 rrr 0 catry weapons to protect them
I more than the piesent authorized j selves from a half nude man who has
: strength of the navy. This number of .eu seen by her and oilier women In
men, S2.7'i-. required on a war footing. ,, Bl,ods near Ardsley.
docs pot Include 10,015 men required for ,rM, x'l i-iioli gave the following state
, ineichiintinen scouts and other auxll-1 npnt t0 a ,. newspaper:
llaiies needed 111 tho service in time of,
v.ar nor an ruiuiiiou.ii in, nun men ro
man mine sweepers, patrol boats and
I similar craft.
"To meet tills startling shortage of
men the. Secretary of the Navy recom-
mended that this session of Congress
authorize 7.1,001) seamen and 2,500 ap
prentice, seamen. Assuming that an ap
prentice seaman (who Is nothing hut a
boy under Instruction) Is the equivalent
t-XToi ru;emrequsa!:
tlie navy on a peace basis and 21,000
inen short nn a war basis. Tlie majority
of tho committee, unly a little less abort-
, reuulred for the navy on a peace basis,
and we further believe that the Presi
dent should be authorized to enlist lu his
disci ctlon such additional men as the
needs of the navy may require, not to
Cotifbuu.J on fourth Page,
WAITE, IN
HOW HE KILLED
AND TRIED TO SLAY AUNT
STRIKING POINTS IN WAITE'S
AMAZING CONFESSION TO JURY
JILLED John E. Peck by smothering him with a pillow after antes-
thetizitiK him with chloroform. This followed attempts to kill
him with arsenic, with the virulent bacilli of diseases, with pan, by ex
posure, by suffocation and other methods.
He cuused the death of Mrs. John E. Peck by inoculatinc her
with virulent disease germs and then Riving her in a weakened condi
tion a heavy dose of veronal.
He attempted to kill Miss Catharine Peck, the maiden aunt of his
wife, at first by ground glass, by bacilli, and then saw that it would be
better to have her die last, so that her fortune could not be shared by
the brother of his wife, Percy Peck. This came after she had made
lavish gifts to him and he had robbed her at every conceivable oppor
tunity of from five cents to thousands of dollars.
His entire life was a self-confessed record of stealing from the
time he was 1,1 years old. He robbed parents, fraternity brothers,
employers in America and South Africa, even Mrs. John E. Peck, from
whom he took a .$10 bill.
The object of the confession, it was revealed, is to give his alien
i.sts an opportunity to say that no sane man could commit such crimes.
He said he loved Mrs. Horton, but did not know whether he had
loved his wife, whom he had married for the Peck fortune.
MAY GET RINTELEN
BACK FROM ENGLAND
liiilictiiicnl of Alleged Spy for
Kvtrnditiilile Offence
Predicted.
Franz von Itlntelen. Captain-lieutenant
In the Herman navy, member of the
Herman iSnier.il Naval .Staff, but now a
prisoner In Ilngland, l expicted to be
extradited to this country to stand trial
with Davlr Lamar, CoiiRresiuari Hu
chanati, ex-Congressman 11. Robert Fow
ler and others on the charges of con
spiling In restraint of foreign commerce
to stop shipments of war supplies to the
Allies.
Von Rlntelen'e presence here Is ex
pected to give additional Importance to
the Investigation Into alleged German
methods for breaking up foreign com
merce. Renewed activity was shown
In the Rtnteleu-Lumar-Duchauaii case
yesterday. Witnesses were called to
the office of II Raymond Sarfaty, As
sistant l'lilted States Attorney, who has
be living Into the affairs of Von
Itlntelen for months
It Is expected that the Grand Jury1
will call those witnesses before It this
morn ng nun mai a new inim-mirm ni.
be returned. While there are scvr.il
Indictments neiidlng against Von Rln -
telcn. none of thini charges any ex-
t rmllt.lliUi nffi-nce
Fowler, F S. Monnett. Herman J
Schultels and Henry P.. .Martin, all In
dicted with Von Itlntelen. tiled supple
mentary motions for the dismissal of the
Indictment They supported their pleas,
nled with Judge Wolverton. with the
affidavit r ' atnenne i-oicj, mini. ,
enocranher to the executive board of
t.inor s .-xaiion.u i-e.icn n m
1 Ington Their contention was that the
I i t !n.-l 1 wel7e,l til.. lecords of tlie
I no.., without sean;l. rran, and "
l ondly that at the time Miss Foley was
taken before the Grand Jury there were
... ti,M lut-v room a stenoirranher and
: :r; ami juVy there' were
stenogranher and
the agent mused llie elevator man
.. .MtA., ..lilt t.fiuu k.i 'I lien
i.neii llie olllces with a pass ke. Then
the agent picked up nil the documents
of Inmoilanie. Miss Foley says he di
rected her to
pinduce her stenogi aphlr
j that the persons whom Miss l-oley saw
In the Gland .liny room weie untie other
.than the foreman anu secreinrj.
Robett Fay, tluough bis attornm-,
'Chillies W ll.unn. scut wont lo .lonu
c Knox. Assistant Cnlted States Attnr-
1.lnr,,n,. ,.,, ,. .. r,.lh. , Kve
2.j.H0ii ball and wished In appeal from
' , " .
carrying si..,-. Judge Wohert. greed
' to let him go mi Jali.OOO ball. It Is ex-
peeled that F.i "III produce llie bail
and will not leave mr Atlanta to-day as
expected to serve his sentence of eight
, years,
1 , TvT Tv-ncir v lirnrvnc
NUDE MAN IN ARDSLEY WOODS,
xr1 ila i. French Issues Warn-
! . . j'
""" "' 'I terlon l.ilrnder.
I TiiI'.ttovv.s , N. Y.. May J." Women
nf Anisic y-on-tlie-Hudson ami Irvineton
..A uto lu human form Is wainlei-
Ins In tlm woods back of lrviugton and
Ardsley, also on Ihe golf links. This
In to warn women and gills against
walking without male protection. If
necessary, carry firearms mid shoot
straight; no punishment is too great for
such atrocious conduct. To save my
sex from my own terrifying experience
I shall gladly give any Information mnd
do everything In my power to Identify
- .l 1..". xnr too ye to
bear the name of man.
Mrs, French said that nu last Sun
day morning she and her cousin, Mrs.
K. C Coykendall, Vere walking on the
Field road when Mis. Coykcndnll felt
a tug at her skirt. She found a man
clad only In running trunks crouching
behind her, who abused her In vllo
language,
Mrs. French pointed lo tin. woods as
If a friend weie thcte ami shouted "Call
that man, quick!" At this the man who
was annoying them ran away.
Last Thursday Miss Dornthv Murphy
of Dobbs Ferry was stopped by it partly
undressed man on the links. She called
for help and the man disappeared.
The man Is described as about six feet
In hclfht and smooth shaven.
SMILES,
ARRESTED AS SELLER
OF GERMAN 'SECRETS'
Hollander Seized After Offer
ing Tapers to Capt. (iaunt.
Ilritish Attache.
.dolih de Leeuw, 34 .eais uld, a
native of Holland, was arrested last
night charged with a violation of sec
tion .r.I2, sub-section 4, of the l'enal
Law, relating lo the sale of documents
with, lit the permission of the owner
thereof, Leeuw had In his possession
four documents hearing the seal of the
German l-7mbasy at Washington and
addressed to Individuals In Germany.
The police suspect that the prisoner
Is either a German agent who scliern'.-il
to Induce Capt. Guy Gaunt. Rrltlsh
naval attache, to buy "secret" Germ. m
pupem of no value or an adventurer
who got possession of real cipher mes
sages to persons In Germany and tiled
to make money by selling them
De Leeuw visited Capt. Gaunt on Mon
day under the name of Hugo Wolff and
offered to sell the papers lo the attache.
Working with Capt. Gaunt. Capt. Tiiniiey
assigned a detective to meet De Leeuw
nt the Illltmore Inst night and arrange
the purchase of the documents,
The detective, calling himself "Wilson."
Introduced De Leeuw to Lieut. Rushy
- "'i i"i".-uir .-.-imluii mi-
nltz as "Havcrly." They discussed the
, terms nf the sale and when De Leeuw
demanded Km) for the papers they placed
mm miner arrest anil toon nun to nean-
quarters,
The prisoner said the papers had been
given tn him to give to some one el-e
He tried to sell them, he said, because
he was urgently In need of funds.
Felix Malltz of 333 Central Park West
went to roi ce iieauquarters at tne ie-
; UP,t of Ca., Tunn' . ,,. uiKhl and
s.im ne nan recriveu mree leners irein
, Mr. Hoffmann, secretary to Dr Albert.
' cnillltlercliil ultaclm nf th. Itprm.lll t!lll-
,,. , Washington. Mr Mailt. saldl!!'V."vlslt you?"
, .bat he had m then, to Ieuw to I
j nVHtrr to a messenger on one i
j iiolland-Anieilca Line boats to tn
. f lermanv
of the
iVoiun,,.,;,, 'Wu to ,ai.,. v..
take tn
rtenn.un-
NAVY YARD SHOP ABLAZE.
( It.v
ii Hi lies (nlled, Iml nniimue
Ik li't Sforet,
ThPif was a flrt In thn navy yard laM
, tilslit. It was necessary to rail on the
, ..... .. . .... .....
Ity engines, but bejond the fact that
theie w.ih a fire, nothing could he learned
nffliiallv from tlie n.ivv varil ulteiulunt
, pu,. Is the -ecrecy wftli which all hap
penings within the jam are guarded
ll en a polli eman sent around to find
nut about It was refused nilmlsslnn at
the g.it
From an unofficial but teh.i -
; , souue It was ascertained that the
, damage was slight and tlie boat shop In
nuliiltm; .no 21 nn street mm in i
' j ,,!, ,lM ti, building on the
1 DISCREDIT VON BUEL0W STORY.
Ilritish Do Nnt Ilelle.e filnie Will
llr Sent tn linerli-H.
ip'cnr; l abli 'tifiifci In Tin: Si
llr Sent tn Xmerlcn,
LoNiioN. May 25 Nothing Is known
I in London diplomat!-' cli-ies of th
I
pi 1 1 i lll.ll I mice Min iiueiow would lie.
sent tn the 1'nlted States The Informa
tion is ciinsldeied as prohahl iucortect
It Is pointed nut thai the ptiuce could ,
not possibly reach tne Fulled States
Willi. nit a lalssez passer, and there
I no teasoti for the Allies to extend s,i h
I facilities
TORNADO SWEEPS DAK0TAS.
six Persons Injured In W 1 111 tile dun
aillll.lHMI llHlnnite.
l.'.n.-n V 11 ir-.t- -. sllv ... Mienm s'-oniiie. 11-" ' ii' ili "...iikii--1-ACliO,
.N. .Vla.V -J-.SX pi-lsou-. ,, 1,1,.,,,., ,,,l,l,.l. ,,!,.,, I ,.l,,
were seriously Injured and
propett)
damage estimated at $300,uou was done
in and around Wimbledon in .1 tertiile
tornado that lilt tlie dlti!cl early to
da while an added 1100. hOO tinning"
was done ill other set t ions,
W'rc 1 nunectloiis with Wimbledon le.
stoied Into to-night brought the story nf
tlie tornado. Slotm damage also is ie
pnrle.i at Page, Aineiiln, Ayr, Hrle. ,r.
gusville, Hunter, lingers, Leal and places
in South Dakota.
BOY STYLED GANGSTER SUES.
Sntte
I'onnilntlou A.ke.l ),. r,
:t(l,OOII for
Survey'1 P11hllcn1l.11,,
Suit for $30,000 damages against the
Russell Sage Foundation and the Sut
vey Associates, Inc., publisher of the
Survey, was tiled yesterday by Thomas
Ryan, father of James Ryan, 11 voat-t
old, because the hoy's portrait appeared
in u publication called "Hovlmod and
Lawlessness," It was taken in ,1 ginuu
picture of a number of city lads plavin,:
on a pier, and under 11 was tin- caption
"An llmbrjo Gangster."
The plaintiff alleged that iiunthi 1 fiii -line
of 11 similar ginup nf ls Mill.
mining Ills photngtuph had II aptntt
"These 1 lb-veil-Yen I'-t lid Delinquents Alt)
a Challenge to the Cnniiuuulty."
TEUmr
PE6KS
Willi ('uiiiiinjr, Coolness,
Confesses Use of Germs
and Poisons.
A US KMC TOO SLOW.
HE SI FFOCATKI) PECK
3lotli(i-in-linvPiil to Dentil
With Drugs to Brinjr
I lie End Sooner.
FED (R0UXD GLASS
TO A DEVOTED AC XT
Jury Astounded by licvela
! tion of Thievery and Dis
1 honesty From Uoyhood.
Attliur Warren Wiilte. a-, coolly as
If he were discussing tin- weather,
told the Jury In the Criminal Branch of
the Supreme Court lnt night how he
had cnuseil the death nf his inother-ln-law.
.Mrs. John K. Pick, by bacteria,
how he had poisoned and then smoth
eled John 12. Peek, ami then Iiow he
tried to kill Mlsa Catherine Peck,
maiden sister of his fntlu'r-ln-Iaw.
As ho spoke hardly iibovt a conver
sational tune, perfectly at his ease, the
court rvnm, from which women had
been excluded after S o'clock in tha
evening, was still iih death Jurors,
wearied by the long session, sat bolt
uptight or leaned forward tn catch
every wotd. Assistant District Attor
neys Urothers, Doollnt: and Maucuso.
Hanked by the State's alienists, sat In
tent; the men in the court room crept
lo the seats nearest the bar railing,
and only Justice Slu-arn of nil In the
court room sat immovable ami impas
sive, Kiulng straight ahead nf him.
The supremo moment of the m.ius
.session on the witness stand had runic
a half hour after the evenini; .e.ss,nii
had enlivened. Then, In replj to th
questions of Walter 1!. Deuel, his
counsel, following hl.s ionf-ssion of
utteiimtM tn ilestinv Ml,, f..,.i i,
' " . V.. ' , , . K' 1
lid
'ul l""'srii lino;
I " "'. 1 wanted those li.u-icrl.i to
, i" i inn.-- an i cl-k,
..Mrs Peck ami Miss Peck in,, maiden
aunt
Unit He l,ni the l.rrois.
Then after W.lite had tnlil hnw he
had tried tn kill Miss Peck, who had
i . , ,, ... . . "
Vf." 'V '.' ' '"m W'Ul 1,,Vlsl1 VrwnU.
.vrr. lieiiel catne to a nue.stlnn wh.rli
held every one.
"H" ou renumber when Mrs Peek
Ve- let llie see; realll . I c.lll't re.
' inemoer exactly, mi,, rain,, with .Mrs.
some iiiiui in .innu.iry. 1 cant
,., m j,.,,,,.,,,.
tiniemner exactly when.
"Did ou give her bai ter la
"Why ceitamly. 1 got the contents
of about sl.x test tubes nf the bacilli of'
i dmlithci ia. nnrumnnia. 1iiMiiiii7h .-iiwl e,-.
(uced them (o one tube and gave them
to her '
"Hnw did you administer tins'"
"Vim see, I often brought tlie food
from tlie kitchen to the dining room and
I would slip the germs In the fond or
ill something else."
Hnw- often""
"Oh. I only had to administer them
to h.-r mice. You see, she became ill
nnuied.atelv They affected her at onie
She leinained ill for several davs. got
j wmse ami then gnt h-tter and llunll.v
one night- Saturday, ir l remeniner
right, although 1 won't be sure I said
I would sit up with her. The nurse
went home at 7 o'clock and Mrs Waite
was ttted 1 was tn watch and give her
her meilb .lie about every fifteen
minutes."
"What did vou do ""
"Well. 1 had iirneurcLdiiring llie day
some veronal tablets- alsnit a dozen llv
I grain tablets and these- I powdered up.
n't,.... I , Ii...- tii.xll, -In., t Ulnmeil
,,,u ,,n...,i'r n, ..ml sin, look it '
Vli.,t ,11,1 nil .111 then "'
Inln III.- sleep of Drat h,
T'nie was almost a gasp In the loom
;ls j lt. nl,,n shaking hl.s head an If tha
piisttoii wue trivial, replied
"Whv. of
,'iiuise. then I went to sleep.
So had she, be added a moment l.itei,
fni when he awakened early In the morn
ing and Inoked his mother-in-law was
dead After tli.il he waited until the.
daughter, bis wife, matin the discovers
Men, even the Jumts, who had been
looking wonderfully at Mr. Deuel, ip-
,1 II.... 1.1 nllA..l U... .I..1.1 ...
.,. ,a,ie.t was' Ilack'o' tho State's
alienists sat the alienists of the defence.
Dr. Dlcfetidnrf and Dr. K.trpa, 1 lus
tiiouslv taking notes or making sugges
tions about questions It was all to nf
foid a basis for a In pnthcth-.il question
Ihe answer to which would bp that no
man who had committed such a series
of CI lines could be sane
Tlieie were Mime further questions It
which the witness said he had not jiveu
the aged woman any poison or anvthlng
.a... .,w-a th.. h.i -llli and the vcron.it.
'She had I'-ivm-ed the .renmtinu herself.
' The I'ainllc bad agreed to it.
1 Th.-i cam.; tne couiession ano n joint
, ftH'li, ml II I 1-lH'M I Ml' Mli.U HMII IH
itoyeii ni uioii wa.vs he had ,it teiiiple-l
In k'll the scventy.tvvo-year.nld drug-Ri-l
tae -tia.it lea-ted Into smiles
sliiv Inn of Second Victim,
ini tlie funeral of Mis. Peck he hid
11 mined lo N'evv Vmk to see Mrs Itor
1 ..11 ci pln.v tenuis he oubl li"l remem
ber wlui h Then Ins witn and her lather
, up..- on to v isli him.
'Iml vim adtnlnlslei Ihe Reims to Mr,
I'e. I.""
oh. vcs.' was tlie mallei of lour.ia
j l I'l
"What
I "Wh,
did nu give him?"
was the smiling answer,
