A
&
H'
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. n. NO. 219
Cuenmn
FINANCIAL EDITION
SMrger
NIGHT
EXTRA
FRENCH TROOPS
RETAKE GROUND
AT THIAUMONT
German Attack Near Dead
Man's Hill and Avb
court Halted
tPARIS PUBLIC AROUSED
rSerioilsncss of Situation How
ever, Fails to Cause
Anxiety
PARIS, May 26.
French troops repulsed violent German
9tUs on tho west bnnlt of the Meuse
Siorthwesl OI verauil, in iubi. HiKum ubui
lw and made calns on tho east bank, tho
? yrar Ofllco announced today.
By a smashing counter-attacK tno i-Tcncn
recaptured tho trench loot yesterday near
Thlflumont Fnrm, eaBt of the Meuse. Near
t Uie arm tho French advanced by a grcnado
Lattack.
West of tho rlvor the Germnns continued
'1 to rake the whole French front, especially
around IJeau iuans juii unu neur jvvo
nurt with the mostvlolont fire. Tho Cer-
tmana attempted an infantry attnek, which
WAS cut snort oy curtain nro irom mo
French Runs
For 36 hours thero has been no cessation
In the cannonading around Hill 304 nnd
Avocourt. Tho German artillery attack here
Is believed to bo tho prelude to an attempt
to storm Hilt 304 nnd capture tho Avocourt
positions, bringing tho Germans closer to
the St. Menehould Railway, leading east
ward to Verdun.
Tho text of tho olTlclal communiques fol
lows: In the Argonno wo successfully ex
ploded a mine at Fllle Morto.
On the left bank of tho Meuse thero
was o very violent artillery engage
ment In the sectors of Avocourt Wood
and Le Mort Homme. In tho latter re
gion a German attack, which was being
prepared for debouching from tho
trenches was rendered fruitless by us
under our curtains of flro.
On the right bank a counter-attack
made, us mastors of a trench element
occupied yesterday by the enemy be
tween Haudromont Wood and Thlau
mopt farm. North of the farm wo
progressed with a grenade attack dur
ing the night and took some prisoners.
The night was comparatively quiet
on the rest of tho front.
L sides of the Meuse has aroused the French
apitai to tne seriousness ot tne situation
V 1kW .wlitta. In ..1, Lias. V..a l.t.l .!
,,U ailAtVkjr IE Ad UtSip. CVC1I EJ11UU1U kllU
French be forped eventually to evacuate tho
fortress because of the continued advance of
r. the Crown "Prlnce'a right 'wing, there, would
UP lll UKfJIJ lU'JT Ul IO, J?Ult Iff 1 piViW UUl
,tb Germans this week havo concentrated
.their forces, Ati tho,iJeavle3t. strokes yet
delivered against the citadel.
j. tw icfimu iihq vueu me iiuumry mrujiBia
uwaffea, on an sectors of verdun th s week
'.friat It Is impossible to niako accurate
csmi.iea 01 .no losses. xtow many un-
fY ;-tunica ucau ana wounaea ue pn me Slopes
woods near Douaumont fort will not bo
known Until the artillery temporarily ceases
belching flames across tho battlefield.
Virtually all tho Paris papers agree that
the Crown Prlnco Is now making his heav
iest effort against Verdun, the Echo de Paris
pointing out that the battle has developed
Into a struggle of extraordinary despera
tion. , 'The present phase of tho Verdun strug
gle dwarfs all preceding phases," said the
Matin, "in violence, continuity and extent
PHILADELPHIA, FllIDAY, MAX 2G, 191G.
CortltORT, 1010, Bl TBI roUO LlMH COMfAHT.
hughesbooMers
now want him to
quit u. s. bench
Confident of His Nomina
tion, They Eagerly Await
His Candidacy
SAY IT WOULD END FIGHT
Progressive Senators and "Regu
lars" Chiefly Concerned
With Platform
0flSMIINSJ?' My 2 Close friends
'a he Is to be tho 'Republican
nnM l0".1 al .nomlnce- ' endcaxo? to In
th nlihlm t0 rcBlBn 'rom.the bench before
mo Chicago convention nWmbles and to
announce his candidacy. They assert that
If ho would do so now tho fight would be
?. Tho Hughes sentiment, they nssert,
Is spreading like wildfire through tho South
em delegates, nnd tho 1h.mi. v.. n...
, ... wuuh.bv lino iuiiuw
era In every Stnto delegation So far. Jus
tlce Hughes positively has refused to dis
cuss politics oven with Judicial associates.
It was said today by a fellow member of
the Supreme Court bench that there was
not a single member who had tho slightest
Idea what the Justice's position was. He
has been good Humoredly chaffed about his
possible nomination, nnd has replied In
kind, but at no time has he made a single
statement that would permit any lino on
his personal thoughts regarding tho Re
publican nomination
Progressive Senators who stuck by the
Republican party In tho last national cam
paign, thereby retaining their reputations
for party regularity, are a unit In believing
that the nomination of Justice Hughes Is
as certain at Chicago as li tho renomlna
tion of President Wilson at St. Louis a
week later.
INTERESTED IN PLATFORM.
They nro deotlng most of their attention
to question of platform, and several pros
pective planks nlready have been framed.
Senator William E Borah, of Idaho, will
offer the Mexican plank, which will de
nounce "watchful waiting." He has held
several conferences with border Senators on
tho subject, and It Is expected that the
platform declaration will assail all of the
Administration's moves In Mexico. The en
tire international policy of the Administra
tion also Is to bo handled without gloves.
It Is expected that the plank will be
framed by Senator Lodge, of Massachusetts,
Who has decided -views on what he says
has been the Administration's failure to
meet the situations as they havo presented
themselves.
In order that no tlmo shall be unneces
sarily wasted there Is a growing disposition
among Republican leaders here to have the
temporary organlxatlpn. at Chicago made
permanent wjth Senator W, G. Harding, of
)P
Wf
GENERAL BRUSATI
LOSES ', TRENTINO
ARMY COMMAND
Italian Chiefs Inability to
Stem Austrian Advance
Causes His Retirement
FRENCH GUNS IN ITALY
King Victor's Troops Repulse
Attacks on Ariago Plateau and
Northwest of Lake Garda
Copj right, Underwood . Underwood.
GEN. ROBERTO BRUSATI
Italian leader, who hna been re
lieved of his command of tho
Italian forces in Trcntino because
of tho retreat beforo tho vigorous
advance of the Austrians.
Continued on Face Four, Column One
TWO DEATHS REPORTED
IN CAMDEN AS RESULT
e
OF ABNORMAL DIETARY
Continued on rase Etehtern,- Column Three
SPEEDY TRACK AT
CAMBRIDGE AUGURS
WELL FOR RECORDS
Many Marks in Danger
When College Stars Meet
in Trials Today
HIGH - CLASS COMPETITION
WAITE ADMITS
HE PLANNED TO
' SLAY HIS WIFE
Testifies He Didn't Attempt
to Carry Out Plot
Against Her
DENIES HE IS JNSANE
"I Think Not," He Tells Prose
cutor "I Want to Do What
Is Right"
iMabel Conroy Prefers Pickles
and Lollypops to Steak' -Wil-
t$ linm TOtitls 1Tt..nl aD.4-4-ju
"" AIUHCI 1U1ACU DUllCl;
milk and Radishes
JpTH DIED IN AGONY
"TWO deaths Wf-rpf rnnnrtAil In ntrAmn
today as the result of nersnns e.itlmr n.
ipecuiiar combination of foods.
Be William Butler. 31 years old, of 1074
Morton street, drank twp glasses of butter-
! &UUC and n. I?lnia nt untaK nrt4 n b..
.oreaa and several bunches of radishes.
ttueatn followed several hours later at his
The death tit lA.VPflf.nM MghAl rnnn.-
I ? l 1Ienry street, was reported as due to
atlns a, mixture of .candy and food contain
tFff awtta acid. This view was corroborated
uuV thfl IPfrlVt mnrrmi rVlWnn Tlnalisii nnil
ICounty Physician Sterri will perform a post
I2 tm 'nvestlgatlon today tp ascertain
IiWWther this explanation Is correct,
m Oil the blotter at the Camden nnllz-n
MtaUon her death was explained with the
jworas, --rook poison." Dr. John E. L.
IfRIlSciver told the Coroner todav. acrnrrf.
HS to the latter, tllfit whnn Iia warn oatlAH
In to treat the girl, before she was taken
to .the Cooper Hospital, Bha said she had
"ken "dog pills" He also Is alleged to
nave (aid that she tried to nurchasa S runts'
jTWarth of arsenlo In the pharmacy at H6
Intercollegiate Events
Scheduled This Afternoon
TRACK EVENTS
8.00 p, m. -100-yard danh.
H:tli p. m. llnlf-mllo run.
S:AH p. ra. 120-j-ard hurdles.
410 p. m. -140-ynrd run
4U5 p, m. .220-jard liurdlrs.
4:18 p. m. 220-nrd dash, i
FIELD EVENTS!
3:30 p. m. I'ultlne the shot.
2:30 p. m. I'olt rnnlt.
2:30 p, m. Kunnlnc hUh Jump.
3:80 p. in. Throlnr the hammer,
330 p. m. Itunnlnr broad Jump.
Contlnntd on furo Two. Column Six
THE WEATHER
O tell thfi truth WA tin pnnf.an m,v a-
Ivm m a weakher prophet. YTa were
HWt awept off our feet by the suddenness
III . J'wtty t the tempest. Ve, hadn't ex
pected Jt and hadn't predicted It. H took
US Off QUr euard. both as Wpathar fnreflnit-
jnd pedestrian, It also took off pur Aat. a
t-Hy new sennit, which -volplaned Into a
"Sit uH ot a nilxture of tho elements,
out the particular silver lining .In this case
a nearby "movie," In which was seen
, moUon-plcure rainfall while the actual
rain hisAH AntauA v.Mi u .1... - .
Wu r113 doesn't happen often and wo en-
s tl
in accordancei with tha rules, there wer
ftJl us.
FORECAST
if or Philadelvhfa and vicimtu Fair
fSpd moderately worm tonight and Sat-
,Miy.- gentle wmaa, mostly northeast.
r.OPTi wn -pnTrniT.
S.I581l.lBK lOfi "g.wwer name YuoVle f5
C34T f Mfltasn, gin join t -no
IAWO.VO IHiTJA
-ars . it .1 t l..
Jrt, jBini:, hir M. btww KMth' 1
" JsSartSiUoa iiu. jtrAr4 IBW Walnut.
W Imt 4 Vmi Ai Pow t
E31JjJ
By TED MEREDITH
CAMBRIDGn, Mass , May 26, When the
hour arrived for the Intercollegiate trials
today the track was vgry fast and every
thing was In perfect shape In the Stadium
for pulling Off the events on scheduled
time.
The college teams nil rolled In last
night and are quartered In tho "Boston ho
tels, awaiting the start of the trials today.
I never have seen so many fine looking
athletes since I have been In Intercollegiate
competition; they alllook trained down to
the minute nnd I will be surprised greatly
If some records don't go by the boards on
Saturday.
As far as I can find out, there are no
two of the critics whoagree on the out
come of tho meet. They all pretty gen
erally believe that Cornell will be the win
ner, but then there are the skeptical ones
who think the Western teams will cut In
so much that Cornell's chances are slim.
The real disagreement comes on who will
bo second, third and fourth.
Tho Cambridge people can see Harvard
only for second, the New York critics pick
either Yale or California, but In our camp
we have doped Stanford to bs the runner
up and Pennsylvania a close third.
jjlttle can be told about this, however,
until after the trials today and we see who
qualifies and- how many men each college
has in the finals.
There w(l( be trials in every event today
except the mile and 2 mile. These two will
go off with one big bang on Saturday. The
100 ' yards, 2S0 yards, 120 yards high
Continued on rase Seventeen, Column Fit a
AUTOISTS HELD BY CORONER
Two Men Committed to Await Grand
Jury'a Action
Edward Hlckey. of 778 Oth avenue, New
York was held without ball to await the
action of the Grand Jury today by Coroner
Knight at the Inquest into the death of Or
George S. Franklin, 77 years old, of 180?
Witnesses testified that Hlckey was rac
lne doun Broad street at a high rate of
speed with another automoblllst At Mount
Vernon street the car driven by Hlqkey
struck the physician. He died at the Hahne.
m JosephlBlondlo. of 7U Annln streel was
held without ball to av alt the action qf the
oiuttfi Jury accused of beinff reupwwlble
7m Uth Of P'te W,of i utb
10th street. A motortruck driven by Bjo.
dfo s&uS th uromwi s U2UtA from
& car,
NKW YORK. May 26. Calm admission
that he had planned to kill his wife, as
well as her parents, Mr. and Mrs. John C
Feck, of Grand Itnplds, and Miss Catherine
Pecki her aunt, was made on tho witness
stand today by Dr. Arthur Warren Waits
vheh he resumed his amazing Btory of tho
arch poison plot through which he hoped
to gain the Peck millions
Walte denied that ho had attempted to
kill Mrs. Walte, but said ha had considered
It.
Asked on the flat question, "Are you
craxy?" on cross-examination, Walte re
plied: "I think not."
"Didn't you say nt Bellevue that you
were ready to pay the penalty with your
life?" nsked Assistant District Attorney
Brothers.
"I did."
"Do you care now what becomes of you?"
"I want to do what Is right"
"What did you take the sulphonol and
trlonol for, on the day of your arrest?"
"I wanted to kill myseir.'t
WOMEN BAItltnD FROM COUHT.
The greatest crowd that has stormed
the Criminal Courts Building since the
opening of the sensational trial was on
hand today. Long lines of men and women
were waiting before the doors opened. A
squad of police held the crowd in check,
but a scramble, ensued Immediately pros
pective spectators were permitted to file
In. Women were barred.
Mrs. Horton and tha "man from Egypt"
figured In Walte'a testimony when the
cross-examination was- taken up.
"Do you remember telling Detective Cun
ntff that you did not want your wife to find
out about Mrs. Horton?" asked Brothers.
"No."
Walte admitted writing to Mrs. Horton
from Bellevue., ' '
"And you were faking Insanity at Belle
vue?" "I was not."
"Did you conspire with others In the
Tombs to get up an Insanity defense?"
"I did not."
"Did you mention the man from Egypt
while at Bellevue7" "
"No, not at Bellevue. but I did elsewhere"
"You confessed that you have been a liar
ROMn, May 26. General Brusatl, com
mander of tho Italian army In Trontlno,
which has been compelled to fall back be
fore the Austro-Hungarlan offensive, has
been relieved of his command. General
Brusatl, instead of being shifted to another
part of tho lino, has been retired and put
on half pay.
In spite of the violence of their bombard
ment nnd the lavish use of fresh troops the
Austro-IIungnrlan troops havo been unable
to mako any headway against the powerful
now positions to which the Italians retired
between Monto Magglo and the Assa Vnlley.
Extending their Infantry operations far
ther vest the Auatro-Itungarlans made
strong attacks against tho Italian positions
northwest of Lako Garda, but were thrown
back nfter suffering extreme losses.
Southeast of tho Sugann Valley the Aus-tro-Hungartnns
havo attneked repeatedly
In an effort to push tho Italians back upon
their own soil, but without success.
Hard fighting, nt some points with In
fantry and nt others with only artillery, Is
In progress over the cntlro front from tho
Adamello sector to tho aea. In spite of tho
vigor of the Austrian blows a feeling of
optimism prevails here and the confidence
of tho high command is reflected In the
press and In tho e-xpreislon of tho people.
It Is now reported that the first Italian
reverses were duo to a shortage of heavy
cannon to cope with the big Austrian guns
Tho French are said to hae come to tho
rescuo with artillery.
Jty jijk. J. Xt j.
SOUTH STREET BRIDGE SAGS QVWl
SCHUYLKILL: TRA FEW STOPPED
The biltlge over tho Schuylkill Itlvcr nt South street s.-iftfj-M
nbout eight feet this afternoon nnd tiolley tmfflc nnd freight trains
on the Pennsylvnnin Rnihond wore held Up, It is hot known whether
nny one wns killed or injuied. The Philadelphia Knpld Tinnslt Com
pany sent the enrs which usually run over the span over Walnut
street bildge. The general impiovement loan which was passed by
the voteis at the recent election piovldes for a new biidge over Soutii
sticct.
TAFT, ASKED IF HE'LL SUPPORT
ROOSEVELT, ONLY CHUCKLES
Declines to Comment on "Such a
Violent Hypothesis"
WASHINGTON. May 26 Though It was
declared positively today by Republican
leaders In position to know that former
President Tnft would support Roosevelt, In
case the latter Is nominated at Chicago, no
confirmation could be obtained from Tnft
himself. He vyould only chuckle and shake
his head when asked abouf It. Finally, be
tween chdrtleV, ho sa(d! -
"Why should I comment on such n violent
hypothesis?" , 4 -
BRUMBAUGH MEN
TO BOLT PENROSE
CALL FORCAUCUS'
Will Shun Meeting Called
for Next Wednesday by
the Senator
t
$20,000,000 FOUNDRY MERGER RUMORED
PITTSBURGH, May 26. Rumois nie cm rent here or a merger
within the next couple of weeks o"f a number of machine nnd foundry
companies involving nbout $20,000,000 in capital J George Mcsti,
piesidont o the Mesta Machine Company, nnd J. S. Richctson, Jr.,
mct-ident of A. Gauison Foundty Company, nie said to be interested
actively in the constiuction pioginm.
SENATE TO VOTE ON BRANDEIS NEXT THURSDAY
WASHINGTON, May 2G. A tentntive agteoment to vote next
Thuisday on the tnomiuation of I,ouis D. Biandeis to be Associate
Justice of the Supieme Couit was leached at a joint conference of
Demociatic and Republican leadeis of the Senate this afternoon.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
Fiist lace, maidens, 2-year-old, selling, purse ?500 4 1-2 fur-longs--Radlant
Flower, 105, Mink, 8 to 1, D to 2 nnd even, won;
Bendlet, 107, Ball, 7 to 2, 2 to 1 nnd 4 to 5A. second; Drury, 100,
Stoward, 30 to 1, 8 to 1 nnd 3 to 1, thiid. Time, :54 4-5.
Second race, 3-year-olds and up, sellin,, with $500 added, Q fur
longs Estimable, 109, Ball, 1 to 3 and .out, won; Voluspa, 105, fink,
9 tol2, 7 to 10 and out, second; Springmass, 111, Waldron, 12 to 1,
2 to 1 and out, thhd. Time, 1:16.
W0.0DBINE RACING RESULTS
Fiist lace, $C00 added, Stinthconav Plate, maidens, 3-year-olds
and up, 0 fuilongs Peep sight, 108, Mott, R1S.10, $10.70 and $4.80,
V.UU; AtatclU, LLUf Jons fyil.b'J and JS, second; Uuetn of Puiaditc,
103, Pickens, $3 50, thhd. Time, 1:14
TO BE TEST OF STRENGTH
Continued an r Four, Column Ono
HIT SISTER; SLAIN BY HUSBAND
-j .
Victim's Skull Crushed After Attack on
Woman
rOTTSVILI.H, Pa.. Slay 26 William
Noon, of Lost Creek, died In the State Hos.
pltal at Fountain Springs this morning from
wounds Inflicted by James O'Brien, wjth
whxm he boarded
O'Brien had been at Shenandoah Tues
day night, and, upon returning home, Mrs.
O'Brien Informed him that her brother. Noon,
had beaten her- This enraged O'Brien, who
attacked Noon with an Iron bar, crushing;
his skull and Inflicting- other Injuries.
Noon did not make on ante-mortem state-ment
Dives Under Wheels of Train
CHESTER. Pa.. May ?. An unidentified
man, believed to be a, Pole, jumped under a
freight train on the Headline Hallway at
Front and Jeffrey Btreeta today and was
instantly killed. He was decapitated and
dismembered. The man waited until more
than ha" the train had passed and dived
under tho wheels.
Austrians Iiebulld Belgrade
VIBNKA, May 2? The Austrlana are
engaged In rebuilding and repairing a large
part of the city of Belgrade, Besides re
atorlny the public building, 10Q.009 panes
of KUss have been repUce4 and 13,003 new
The Brumbaugh delegates to the Repub
lican National Convention will bolt the
"caucus" called for next Wednesday by
United States Senator Penrose, the Gov.
ernor's rival factional leader. It was an
nounced In the Brumbaugh-Vare camp
today.
The "caucus." which nan called hv h
senior Senator last night, will develop Into
an actual lesi or strength between the two
factions who are battling for control of the
Republican organization In Pennsylvania.
All of the questions that In other years
are settled at the regular caucus of the
delegation, held In the convention city twe
or three days before the national conven
tion, will be determined nnd will be on a
fair way toward settlement after the meet
lng of the delegates next Wednesday,
Tha meeting was called by Senator Pen
rose, who sent a personal letter to each of
the 76 delegates elected at the primary on
Tuesday of last week. Ho asked them to
convene for n "conference," at 2:30 o'clock,
on Wednesday afternoon of next week. The
meeting will be held In the Bellevue-Strat-ford
following the meeting of the newly
elected State Committee, which will assem
ble at 10.30 o'clock In the morning. The
call for the State Committee meeting was
sent out last night by State Senator Wil
liam E. Crow, chairman of the committee.
LUNCHEON AS BAIT,
The bait which Senator Penrose holds
um iu um cicguiea iu attract tnem to a
campaign conference Is a free lunch at the
Bellevue, which tho senior Senator will Blve
both to the delegates and members of the
State Committee, Senator Penrose Issued
his call for the conference In the following
night letter.
"I have been requested by a majority
of the Pennsylvania delegates to the Re
publican National Convention at Chicago
to call a meeting of the entire delegation
prior to the convention, for the purpose of
appointing committees to look after the
time of departure of the delegation, hotel
accommodations,, and other like matters
which should be attended to for the con
venience of the delegates to and from
Chicago and during their stay while In at
tendance at the convention!, also for the
purpose of selecting the officers of the
delegation and the names from the Penn.
Bylvanta delegation for the committees pn
resolutions, contest of seats, permanent
organization, and other similar matters.
The time suggested for the meeting of
the delegation is on Wednesday, Way 31,
1916. at 2 30 o'clock, at the Bellevue Strat
ford Hotel, Philadelphia, and if jou call
conveniently maKo arrangements 10 be pres
ent at this meeting it will be appreciated
On account pf tho returns for the alternate
delegates not being received, It Is impossible
to notify them of the meeting Should you
not be able to be present, kindly advise me
ho will represent jou. The Republican
State Committee will meet also for organi
zation on this date, at 10 30 o'clock a. m.
and a buffet luncheon will be served at the
Bellevue-Strat ford to both the national del
egates and members of the State Com
nilttee BOIES PENROSE,"
"The meeting will show Senator Penrose's
actual strength, said ope Brumbaueh-Var?
leader 1oda,y "You can tell how many votes
Cestlsssd M face SJxt Wssu Tno
LIMIT FOR DEPOSITS IN POSTAL SAVINGS BANKS RAISED
Announcement was made at the postofflco today that the highest amount that
ono depositor could place In tho postal savings banks had been Increased from
?500 to $1000. The rule prohibiting the depositing of more than $100 In ono month
was done away with. Postmaster Thornton In praising the system Bald that there
was 180,000,000 in the banks deposited by a half million persons.
18 WOMEN WOUNDED IN GERMAN FOOD RIOT
AMSTERDAM, May 26. Eighteen women were wounded In ,n light between
tho pollqe, and food rioters In Frankfort-on-Maln on Wednesday night, according
'o Information received hero today. Threo hundred and fifty women attacked
butcher shops at Frankfort because of the scarcity of meat.
U-BOATS HIT ITALIAN AND SPANISH SHIPS
LONDON, May 26. The Italian steamship Ericole, of Genoa, has been
sunk in tho Mediterranean Sea by a submarine. The submarine Is believed to have
heen Austrian, as dispatches state that the Austrian Admiralty la showing a great
burst of submarine activity at the present.
MEREDITH NOT BARRED FROM COMPETING IN MEET
CAMBRIDGE. Mass.. May 26, An effort to bar Captain "Ted" Meredith, ot
the Penn track team, on the eve of the Intercolleglates, which begin at the Har
vard Stadium here this afternoon, failed lato last night, and Meredith is eligible
to compete In the big track and field meet. The attack on Meredith was an
unexpecled development at the meeting of the Intel collegiate Athletic Associa
tion last night. It was based on Meredith's articled written for newspapers.
The committee ruled, however, that Meredith had violated none of the rules of
the association. In addition to this, Meredith'a record for the half mile of 1:58 1-5,
made In the Cornell meet on Fianklln Field two weeks ago, which bieaks the
world's mark, was officially accepted as a collegiate record. It was also de
cided to bar the entries of the University of Maine at the meet today and to
morrow, Maine's entries came after the expiration of the time set for recelv
Ing them,
GERMANY ARRANGES ANOTHER WAR' LOAN HERE
Germany has arranged another commercial credit In the United States through
Chandler & Co,, Inc., bankers of this city and New York. No definite amount la
named for the credit, but it Is understood that It will not exceed $10,000,000. Tho
previous loan, which was handled by the same bankers, was floated In March, 1915,
and was for $10,000,000, The new Issue will be German Treasury notes, due April
1, 1817, to bear Interest at tho rate of 6 per cent., nnd will be placed according to
actual requirements with banking Instltntlons In the East and the Middle "West.
There will be no public offering, The new loan Is for the purpose of establishing
certain comm'erclal credits for the German'Vjovernment, Jt Is probable that the
proceeds, or parts at least, will be used to "support the market for German exchange.
The previous loan was taken by Investors and lnstitutlons'ln the Middle West. The
notes ran for nine months and were paid at maturity.
PBIOJBJ OKID OJBJJTI?
BLANKENBURG IS
READY TO FIGHT
AGAIN IF CALLED
Former Mayor, Health Re
gained in California, Talks
in New York
WILL NOT RETURN YET, J
Will Spend Summer in PoconO
Pines Home Silent on
Porter's Switch
Blankcnburof8 Message
to Philadclphians
"I went to California to regain my
health. I have succeeded, and I am
fccllnff fine."
"I am not talking or thinking poli
tics until I return to Philadelphia in
October."
"What course I shall follow then
remains to be decided."
"If called upon to fight again with
tho forces of good government I
shall stand ready."
By a Staff Correspondent
NEW YOHIC, May 2S.i;x-JIayor ttu-t
dolph Dlankenburg, of Philadelphia, a mill-'
tant Independent leader In reform politics,,
has returned from his live months' sojourn
In Southern California "With his health re
gained, feeling and looking years younger,
and ready to tnke up ngaln the fight for
good government If called upon.
At tho ilotel Astor today, where he and
Mrs. lilankenburg are stopping, Mr. Blank
cnburg cald ho would not return to Phila
delphia until late In October, nnd until thnt
time, ho declared with emphasis, he would
not talk a word, nor even think aloud, of
politics, cither city. State or natlonah
STANDS READY TO FIGSHT AGAN.
All "questions on polltlc-j and municipal
affairs In his home city he waved asldo with
a smllo, but when nsked whether ho was
out of public life for good, he reflected a.
moment ond then, lna voice vibrant with
earnestness nnd resolution, he said:
"No, if I ant ever called upon to lead the
tight for good government I Mniul ready."
There Is om subject that the former thief
magistrate of Philadelphia is ready and
glad to iIIvup his trip to California which
hns brought him back to health.
"1 left to galn my health; I have suc
ceeded mid ou can tell the people I am
feeling fine he said.
Mr. Illankcnburg's appearance fully bears
qut I1I3 statement. The pallor of hfs cheeks
when he left unlce early in January 1J
vamsneu cmirei, ana in its piace- istt,
healthy brown, bearing strong iestlnjaas toi
the health-restoring qualities of the Califor
nia sun mid air. H'fl BlP t00 J fts brWt
and steady as 1L was more than fouj years ,
ago when, ns "The War Horse of Reform."
ho led the. Independent forces to victory and
began ,hla term as Mayor,.
He admitted frankly that ho had main
tained a clone personnl interest In Phila
delphia politics duriug his stay In Califor
nia, but then, as If to forestall possible
cueBlions based upon this admission, he
added quickly:
"Of courso, there is nothing unusual in
Continued on Pair Klchtren, Column I'lTi
MAYOR'S BROTHER
DENIES COP ACTED
AS HIS CHAUFFEUR
Joseph Smith, Executive's Secre
tary, Indignant at Questions
Relating to Employment
of Policeman
CONTRADICTS RECEIPT
Who Was Mysterious
Driver of Smith Car
Automobile of Joseph Smith,
Mayor's- secretary - brother, was
stolen at Wild West Show yesterday
afternoon and wrecked by thief,
John M. Redding, a policeman,
signed for it as chauffeur when it
was recovered.
A private chauffeur was in charge
of it, said the Mayor's brother. His
name? "No," indignant reply.
"It's nobody's business."
"I know nothing about it."
Superintendent Robinson!
"I know nothing about it," Di
rector Wilson.
"Nothing to say." Harry Haney,
Redding's 'boss."
Cars of Mayor Smith and Director
Wilson ciosciy guarded by "Uva J
cop" at show grounds last night, i
BRITISH ARMS CARRIER BEACHED OFF COCHIN, CHINA x
HONO KONQ, May 28. Following an outbreak of Are on fcoard the British
mahlp Wlsley, bound from New York to Vladlvoatock'with a cargo or war
in Vungro Bay, on the coast of (Jochln, China.
btearoshlp
munitions, has been beached
Help has been summoned
f
RIVER TRIP TO PUSH PORT IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Port Improvements will be discussed on an inspection trip of the city's water
front planned today by Mayor Smith The inspection will be held net Friday
afternoon, and on invitation of the. Mayor the members of the Committee on Com
prehensive Plans will accompany Director Webster, ot the Department of Wharves,
Docks and Ferries, on the tour of both rivers. There U an Item of 110,000,00 for the
development of the port In the flT.iOO.000 loan, and be, Mayor hope to hay a, per.
tloa el this uionsy. available before tho end, f tho year.
Just who was the chauffeur of the brand
new automobile of Joseph Smith, the
Mayor's brother and private secretary,
which vvas stolen at the Wild West Bh&?
grounds and later wrecked by the thief, js
puzillng the police today.
The cir was in charge of John Af Ited.
ding, a policeman of the 4th and Haee
streets station, at the time it waa jrtolsji
jeuterday, according to the receipt uluVh
Iteddlng gave when he recovered the tar.
The rar was In charge of a private chauf
feur, .according to the Mayor's brother. Who
was hotly Indignant in denying that h
chauffeur was a policeman on the city's
payroll lie refused to make known th
"NOBOPY'S BUSINESS '
"It's, nobody's business but mine." mud,
he. "I bought the car; I pay the chauf
feur: I huy the oils, and gasoline. Th
city Isn't concerned. I can t understand
why everybody's making such a fus about
It Bvery reporter In Philadelphia ha
been deviling me Ihls morning "
"Pq oa bother everybody who ha n
little accident like this?" Mr Smith Ujn
asked aara.sttUl-,
"i seidejn use the car except n Satur
days and Sundays," continued the Uayftfs
brother "Sometimes i drive it myself
When I do vue a chauffeur I get hint frons
the garage where I keep my car 4 pn
him msetf vo l W not nmkji ouhte
the name ot the chauffeur
It -waa understood tht he visa a.
Is that true. Mr Sntfthr h wa atfc4
"Ko."
fiprtttl5ftt of ?gle Rs .
fPmWmm
