PSET1 THE DAILY TELEGRAM I ]
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE V '
ITALIAN RETREAT
IS NOT SURPRISE
Situation is Such as Not to De
pend on Withdrawal of
Troops at Some Points..
VERDUN IS RATHER CALM
French Succeed in Getting Back
Some of Their Trenches
L? in Latest Fighting.
i:
(?? AtsoeiATtD nnn
ROME, May 20?The retreat of
the Italians on a portion of the Tren
tlno front has not caused any pes
simism In official circles here. It Is
pointed out that the entire line of
battle Is 400 miles long and that
there need be no surprise that there
should be withrawals at some points
under overwhelming pressure.
The fact that the Austrians now
(hold a small mountainous section of
Italian territory 1b considered of
small importance when compared
with the fifteen times greater terri
tory occupied by the Italians In Aus
tria. It Is considered that If the ene
my continues to ad-vance the condi
tions which have favored htm hither
to will be reversed as the farther he
gets from his base of operations the
more difficult It will be to supply am
munition for his heavy artillery. On
tha other hand the Italians will en
joy the advantage of having good
roads, four main railways and In
exhaustible reserves available at
their Immediate rear.
These considerations are Independ
ent of the natural obstacles which
make the Austro-Itallan front so
different from that at Verdun.
An official statement has been Is
sued stating that it Is Impossible to
dlmlt the war to trench fighting In a
region like the Trentlno where large
masses of troops can be easily trans
ferred from one point to another
without weakening any section of the
front.
VERDUN FRONT SITUATION
UNDERGOES LITTLE CHANGE
^ j' I.T A..OCIATKB PMSlt
? /PARIS, May 26?There has been
?little change In the situation on the
Verdun front, says the statement Is
sued by the war office today.
The artillery bombardment was
very violent about Avocourt wood
and Dead Man hill. At the lattor
place a German attack was stopped
by the French curtain of Are at is in
ception.
On the right bank of the MeuBe
the French succeeded In recovering
part of the trenches occupied Thurs
day by the Germans between Hau
dremont wood and Thlaumont farm.
Otherwise the battle front was calm.
EXCEPTIONAL ACTIVITY
AT SALON I Kl IS SHOWN
(jrr as?ociatio PHiatt
ATHENS, May 26?Exceptional
military activity at Salonlkl Is be
lieved here to portend developments
of great importance.
General Howell, chief of the Brit
ish staff, and otheT officers of the Al
' lies who have been on leaves In
Athens, have been recalled suddenly.
WAITE'S STORY
Is Crowded with Horrors Un
paralleled in History of New
York Criminal Trials.
tmV AMOCtATU PAIt.)
NEW YORK. May 26.?Could H
?sane man commit the series of crimes
?confessed by Dr. Arthur Warren
Waite?
This Question confronts Jie Jury
today in the Peck murder case. The
young dentist left the witness stand
last night after five hours and fort.
flve,minutes crowded with horrors
(unparalleled in the history of New
York criminal trials. Every detail
of his story was noted by the alien*, s
engaged by the defense for use In
framing the hypothetical question
they will be called to answer before
Waite's attorneys ask the jury to
decide whether he was menially f.
| sponsible when he killed his fathe.
!in-law, John E. Peck.
Taylor Ward was here Friday from
,-Peel Tree.
+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + 4.
? LARGEST AUDITORIUM ?
HAS T<> HE ENGAGED. +
, * *
? Owing to tho fact that tbo +
? court house was considered cn- ?
? tlrely too small to house the ?
? mammoth crowd of citizens that +
+ will turn out to hear Judge Ira ?
? E. Robinson, of Grafton, speak ?
? in behalf of his candidacy for +
? the Republican nomination for ?
? governor Monday night, the ?
+ Robinson grand theator, which ?
? is the largest auditorium In the ?
? city, has been engaged for tho +
? meeting instead. +
? Arrangements have been ?
+ made with Claude Robinson, ?
+ manager of the theater, to have +
? his Paramount picture service ?
? suspended all day Monday, so +
+ that the theater may be used +
. ? the entire day for the great +
+ meeting and the preparations <?
+ for it. +
+ The meeting will begin at 8 ?
+ p. m. sharp. +
Who Was Convicted of a White
Slavery Charge Files Plea
in Abatement.
Eugene L. Young, a colored doc
tor, "who a year or more ago was ar
rested on a white slavery charge for
having taken a oolored girl of this
-ty to Marietta, O., and was con
victed in federal court, the case hav
ing been appealed to the United
States circuit court of appeals, which
latter court set the verdict of the
Jury and the sentence of three years
imposed by Judge Dayton, Is again
on trial this week at Philippl. Word
was received here today that his at
torneys have filed a plea In abate
ment, claiming a flaw in some of
tho proceedings, and the records
have been forwarded for use of the
government in the case
THREEJpED
When Taxi Skids on West Mil
ford Road and Goes over
Embankment.
When a five-passenger Overland
touring car owned by George Biglow,
colored, and driven by Sanford Lew
Is, colored, and used for a taxi, skid
ded at Turner's bend on the West
Mllford road Thursday night on ac
count of the soft condition
caused by the rain, two white girls
who were passengers In the car, and
Lewis, the driver, were painfully ln
Jnred.
The Klrla were being driven to
West Mllford by Lewis and as the
car approached Turner's bend It be
gan to skid, and before tho driver
could get control of the machine It
had left the road and crashed over
an embankment near the roadside.
Flying glass caused the Injuries of all
In the car. The girle' names'could
not be learned Friday, but It is
not thought that they were seriously
Injured.
Do National Guard Members
While Waiting in Line to
Be Inoculated.
(BY ASSOCIATKO P.I.fl)
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., May 28.?
Mem here of the Texas national guard,
who have been Impatient' at the delay
in being ordered to duty along the
Mexican border, have fainted in larro
numbers while waiting In line to be
Inoculated with anti-typhoid virus.
"Psychological phenomenon", re
marked one army Burgeon today, Fur.
ther than that no ond knows accur
ately why militiamen and regulars as
well, who often later distinguish
themselves in action, should be ovor
come at the prospect of undergoing
a treatment characterized by no pa'.j
and no ugly spilling of blood.
fTWO MEXICANS KILLED
IN A SURPRISE ATTACK!
On a Detachment of American
Engineers Engaged in Re
paiirng Motor Track.
FIELD 'HEADQUARTERS, NEAR
KAMIQU1PA, via radio to Columbus.
X, M., May 26.?Candolario Cervantes,
the Villa bandit, was killed by Ameri
can troops south of Cruces today.
Another Mexican, Jose. Bencorne,
and an American were killed. Two
Americans were wounded.
Cervant'es's ond came after he haj
made a surprise attack south of
Cruces on a detachment of engineers
repairing the ipotor truck road. He
waj beaten back and pursued into the
hills by the engineers who.had been
re-elnforced by a detachment of the
Seventeenth infantry.
[ When the engagement began the
bandits outnumbered the American
two to one. there being twenty of
them. The engagement' lasted an
hour with a hot Interchange of bu'
lets.
VILLA LEADER KILLED IS
SECOND IN IMPORTANCE
Imr AisoclATKo pataai
SAN ANTONIO, May 26.?The
American soldier killed In the fight
ing with Villa bandies near Cruces
yesterday was Corporal David Marks
bury. General Pershing reported to
General Funston today. Privates
George F. Nicholson and George Hni
lett were wounded. Candelario Cor
vantes, the Villa leader killed In the
engagement, was callcd by Gene l
Pershing as "second In Importance
only to Villa."
Southern Very Finely
Fitted for Prosecutor
John C. Southern.
Ten years of law practice In slate and federal courts Is the professional
record of John C. Southern, who Is a Republican candidate for prosecuting
attorney of Harrison county. That practice haB been highly successful and
his law buslnes1- today Is of a magnitude and character even lawyers longer
In practice would be proud to have.
Mr. Southern has ever appreciated the fact that a straightforward courso
Is the only true road to success and he has always put that appreciation Into
practice, not preaching something he docs not practice. Such courso has
brought full reward, namely, highest respect and regard by his fellows in the
legal fraternity and a widespread confidence among the people which has aug
mented bis practice from year to year until he commands a clientage, the
character and size of which no lawyer need be ashamed of.
Always diligent and industrious, ever Btudlous and researchful. constantly
reaching out for educational and professional Improvement, IMr. Southern
has so thoroughly applied his time and talents as to go before any court how
ever high with able and correct presentation of the cues he hoB in hand .at
the time, and opposing counsel know that they are meeting a man worthy of
their steel, a lawyer who fights long and hard, one who turns every legitimate
stone and never gives up. They find In him an able advocate, a powerful
pleader, a courageous and effective debater. w
Long experience In bis profession along with other activities In Ufa
gives Mr. Southern a broad montal grasp of the criminal statutes of the state,
whose interpretation and enforcement lie largely with the prosecuting attorney,
who by virtue of law Is the county's representative of the people, an official
whos sworn duty it is to see that the law Is upheld for the people collectively
but whoso duty It also Is to seo that the individual member of society Is not
unjustly accused or undeservingly punished. The duties of the prosecuting
attorney are well defined by law, which is as plain as a b c and no man with
the conscience and principle of John C. Southern can err In Its Interpretation.
A man of his steadfastness of honorable purpose and fairness of reasoning
and feeling can not and will not misconstrue tho duties of prosecuting attorney
as those to suit whims; prejudices or the drunkenness of power.
Harrison county grows in importance day by day as Its population grows
larger and the work and responsibility of the prosecuting attorney corres
pondingly Increase. Complete equipment and thorough fitnesB for the office,
therefore, become imperative, and truly such equipment and fitness are to be
found to a perfect degree in John C. Southern. He measures up to the full re
quirements, and under him the record of the office of prosecuting attorney
of Harrison county will advance until It eclipses the record of the past, and
certainly so far overshadows the present record as to bury it in deepest oblivion.
Mr. Southern could not have attained his splendid success In his cbosen
profession If he'had not so admirably propared himself In his boyhood and
young manhood His public school record was a proud one, leading as he
did in his classes all the time. Following this up, he established another fine
record as a student at Broaddus Institute from which ho was graduated with
high honors in 1904. He Immediately entered the West Virginia University
at Morgantown to complete his schooling and prepare himself for his profes
sion, and he was graduated from the law school at that institution In 1906,
following which he immediately began the practice of law here.
Born October 17,1884, ho is in his thirty-second year, is at that age where
his faculties are keenest and best, and It is certainly not amiss to state that
a man at that age may be counted on to make their best application as am
bition for the future and the dcslro to make a fine record are uppermost then
in u man's soul.
Mr. Southern stands alono In one notable particular in this campaign
as a one-term candidate. This fact is worthy of note, and It will doubtless
commend Itself to many inters, especially to those who believe new faces In
public office are frequently conducive to the best public servlco.
Tho campaign ns waged by him has been honorable and fair. He has been
open and above board In all he has done to further his campaign. Ho las
spoken no word of reflection on rival candidates. He has held aloof from all
factional alliances, pimply running on the Republican ticket as If there ware
no combinations of any kind, Indeed If there be any. He pledges himself to do
his duty as his oath will require and to be conscientious, reasonable and fair
In all his official acts.
A vote for Southern means that the one who casts it believes in and wants
tho laws of the land enforced nnd public order maintained. .His nomination
will add strength to the ticket and his election will mean efficient service and
orderly government
America Confronted
With Grave Questions
'Declares Judge Gary
And He Says Government and
Business Men Should Work
in Harmony on Them.
(?V ASSOCIATED PRKSS)
NEW YORK, May 26.?Declaring
that the United States was rapidly be
coming the leader among the nations
of the world and that It was-"high
Ume for every one to understand that
a large majority of the people of the
United States will insist upon the
utilization of every facility to protect
and to honorably further the inter
ests of their own country," Judge El ?
bert H. Gary spoke here today at
the annual meeting of the American
Iron and Steel Institute on what he
considered "momentous questions.
("There are now confronting tho
people of this country," he said, "cer
tain momentous questions. They In
volve life, liberty and happiness.
They are under discussion by tho
most talented writers and speakers
and they are in the thoughts and
mouths of the multitudes. It is like
ly opportunity will be given to the
yoters (q give expression {9 theft
views in the near future relating to
some of these questions. The largo
majority have a friendly feeling to.
ward business success, large or small,
so long as it Is decently and fairly
conducted.
"We believe thoroughly In the reg
ulation and restraint of business In
such a wny as to prevent harm and
Injury to the public Interest; but we
do not agree that the proper way to
prevent harm is to destroy the agen
cies which may be and generally are
utilized for the promotion of good.
"The government and the buslnesx
men should work In harmony with
reference to these matters.
"Our export business is large andl
Increasing. The total' exports for'
March of this year were J411.476.635
In value, an Increase of (114,864,785
over March, 1016. The total for the
nine months ending March 31, wss
(2,997.172,472, an Increase of $1.
066,094,603 over the total for' 'the
same period of the preceding year.
"The markets of the world aro
multiplying in. number.and increas
ing In Importance. We are hoping
for open ports In eyery Wft.
have not heretofore hud our propo -
lionate share of this trade. Ono ren.
ion for tho limited nmount of our
U^lno"" ln tho '? ,oun'l
ID the lark of ships owned, controlled
and operated by Americans. We
ha\e been more or lea* subjected to
the domination of foreigners havlrnt
the ownership of control of ships and
who are Interested directly or Innl
re"?-Jn bu"lncM competing with us
When the present wars are end J
ed these conditions will bo even
worse thnn they have ever been be
fore unless thero are ndopteil laws
or amendments that will plnco our
merchant marine practically on an
equality with that of other nations."
Wo arc In favor of peace for our
nation; not at any price, but we
would If necessary, pay liberally for
t. We would tight any other na
tion. but only defensively. Howovor
we do not wish for war and wo he
love it Is not necessary to engage in
t with any European nation or nn
tlon?.
"So anxious are our people to avo 1
trouble and to maintain a peace foot
ing, they are willing to submit, tem
porarily, and until the minds of hot
heads have had time to become cool
and collected, to many acts seeming
y unfriendly and even to sneers and
Insults, before they will assume an
offensive attitude and run the risk
of prcclpltnlng a war unnecessarily.
This is a strong statement but It rep
resents tho real attitude of a large
majority of our people. They sin
cerely believe we shall get through
and come out of the apparent shad
ows of doubt and distrust, the clouds
of gloom that at times have been very
black and threatening, without war
and with the respect and confidence
of all the European nations. Wo de
sire to have our administration at
Washington maintain a strictly neu
tral attitude concerning the bellig
erent nations. When the war 1s over
?and may a morciful Providence
speed tho day?we wish to be on
terms of intimate and cordial rela
tions with them all.
? "If the United States is to assume
and maintain the Important position
among nations that has been thrust
upon her, she must be possessed of
the some olementa of power and
strength that others have. She must
be prepared to protect her coinmerco
on the seas. She must be ready to
support other nations ln the Insist
ence that the ports of all .foreign
friendly nations shall remain froo
and open to all. And even more Im
portant to consider, we would bs av e
i to exert a powerful Influence ln aid
ing and even comftMUnr Internation
al pesce."
In doslnfc, Judge Oary said:
"There Is not Intended to be nor
Is there any question of politics In
volved ln what has been said, not
withstanding there may be differ
ences of opinion held by persons of
different political parties concerning
some of the points dlscused. It Is be
lieved a strong and dominant publlo
sentiment will bring about a regard
for honest business success, bencflclnl
to all the people of this country, and
necessary laws and administration or
laws to promote and protest it; the
maintenance of permanent peace, In
dustrial as well as social; and the su'
flclent preparedness to Insure both.
"The steel Industry is good; better
than ever beforo. There have recent
ly been publications to the efTect thai
there Is a falling off In new orders
and this may be true to-a slight ex
tent, but tho dally bookings general
ly aro larger !n volume than the total
producing capacity, and as tho unfin
ished orders on hand are sufficient to
keep the mills busy for the remainder
of this calendar year and a largo
portion of 1917 there Is not much, If
any, cause for concern on the part of
manufacturers for the next twelve
months at least,
"We could hope that' we had been
permitted to continue co-opernlion en
a basis that would have Influenced
greater stability ln prices, higher in
times of depression and lower 'n
times of great activity, for It would
have been satisfactory and beneficial
to both producer and consumer and
to their employes; but circumstance*,
over which we had no control,
brought about a change In this par
ticular, Public sentiment may bring
about a restoration of the former and
better methods. Who can tell?"
farmers; day
WiH Be Observed at Simpson
June 1 with Some Good
Speaking.
In response to the request of quite
a number of farmers an all-day meet
ing especially for country' peopl#
has been arranged for Thursday,
June 1, at Simpson. It Is hoped that
a large crowd will take advantage of
this opportunity of discussing and
hearing problems concerning country
life discussed. It Is believed that
this meeting will be both profitable
and enjoyable. In order to make
the meeting the greatest success pos
sible, much time and effort has been
put forth towards securing the best
speakers possible for this occasion
It Is announced that Prof, M, J.'
Abbey, of the West Virginia Univer
sity, a very pleasing and profitable
speaker, will be present and deliver
two addresses. The 'subject of bis
address before noon will be "Wastes
on the Farm." In the afternoon
Prof. Abbey will speak on "Country
Welfare." Dr. Richard AspinaU, of
West Virginia Wesleyan. College,
will address the audience on "Some
Contributions of England to Agri
culture and .Education." The Hev.
Mr. Hamrlclj and others will speak
"I"?- A So?* special features will
probably be arranged to entertain
? TV..;
LEAGUE IS NOT TO
URGE PEACE STEP
Numbering More Than 600
Hear Judge Ira E. Robin
son Speak.
CHAlit.FJSTON, May 26?Mora
than 600 minora turned out at Cedar
Orovo lust night to woloorae Judgo
Ira E. Hohlnson, candidate tor tho
Republican nomination for governor,
and express their allegiance to the
man who as Judge ot. the supreme
court stood loyal to them during tho
troubles In tho Cabin creek and Paint
croek Industrial wars. Cedar drove
Is In the hoert of the Cabin creek coal
fleld. The ovation given tho dis
tinguished Jurist beapoked eloquent
ly the . bond of affection existing be
tween the men and the noted candi
date. Charles J. Schuok, of Wheel
ing, also spoke. The meeting was
presided over by M. E. Dixon, mayor
of Cedar Orove.
Another mostrous meeting was
addressed yesterday afternoon at Elk
View by the Judge. The enormous
crowd and enthusiasm at both meet
ings together with the unprecedent
ed demonstration here last night
prove conclusively that Judge Rob
inson will carry Kanawha county by
a tremendous majority.
CLOHULE
Of the Water Street Colored
School First Week in June
is Announced.
Tho year's work ot the Water stroot
oolored school will close with tho fol
lowing exeicWes:
Examinations will bo held Monday
and Wednesday for all grades, pro
motions for grades from first to sev
enth Inclusive will be made on Friday,
Juno 2. Tho sermon to the class will
be dollvered* Sunday, June 4 at 3
o'clock at the Water street school au
ditorium by the Bev. J. S. Carrol, pas
tor ot the Trinity Methodist Bp Is oo pal
church.
Commencement exorcises will be
Monday evening, June 6 at the school
auditorium. The address to the class
and to the public will he delivered
by Dean Pickens, of Morgan College,
Baltimore, Md.
Eighth grade and high school pro
motions will be given out Tuosday
morning, June 6.
WOODMEN
Of Tfiree States Are to Hold
Their Encampment at Park
ersburg in August.
The holding of the trl-state en
campment ot the Woodmen of the
World in Parkersburg is now ss
sured. The dates were announced
today to Include five days from Au
gust 14 to 10. The uniform rank of
the three states, West -Virginia, Vir
ginia and Maryland, will be there
for the biennial encampment, which
will Include about 2,000 uniformed
Woodmen. In addition to these It Is
expected that several hundred
Woodmen from other cities who are
not now members of the uniform
rank will be present to witness their
maneuvers, and to take part In the
meeting.
To Be Taken in the European
War Declares Taft, Pres
ident of the League.
WORLD COURT IS PLANNED
Former President in Address at
Convention Explains Points
In League's Mlsston.
(.* A?M?iATto rn
WASHINOTW amy 26.?Tho object
of the Loague to Enforce Peace 1*
not to urge President Wilson to take
step* to stop tie present war, former
President Taft, president of the league,
declared today In opening Its two-daya'
session here.
Tho acceptance of memborshlp brthe
United States m a world ooort In
which tho Joint powers would w'
their armed and economic foroea to
enforce Its decrees In tho Interest of
posce was charged by Mr. Taft His
speech was cloaely confined to the
technical, legal quostlons Involved en- -
Joinder by the Unltod Statel In such
an International tribunal. He denied
that such action would curtail the pow
er of either the president or Congress
by limiting the constitutional discre
tion of the latter body to declare war. <
Mr. Taft explained that the league's ?
platform proposes compulsory sub
mission to the world court of an In
ternational dispute not settled by dlpl
lomatlc negotiations and which are
"Justiciable" quostlons.
Referring to the so-called Bryan
peaco treaties with England and
Prance Mr. Taft said It was argued',
that the arbitration stipulation la them
was a delegation of the authority of
the president and Senate over our for
eign relations.
"But upon reason and authority this
objection is untenable," said Mr.. Taft
Turning to the question of a duty of
a nation bolonglng to the world court"
to use its army and navy In forcing its '
decroo upon otber members that should
go to war In defiance ot the court's dfr- V
croes, Mr. Taft took issue w'lth former
Secretary of State Bryan regarding
Mir. Bryan's contention that a constl
| tutlonal amendment would be neces
1 sary befpro the United States' eduld ob
ligate itself In thh respect
"Mr. Bryan declared that in ordtr
to carry out the provision we must
have a Joint council of the powers to
determine when the time has arrived
for military action and war," said Mr.
Taft. "and that this would substitute
the action of the council for the dls
mo wuvu Ul UlO WUUUU11 lur me UIB* .1
cretlon of Congress. I venture to think
that this view Is wholly without f
datlon. If tho war Is a foreign
could not be begun under the
tutlon untU Congress had dt,v.
war. We Impose in a constitute
way by treaty an obligation on C
gross It does not take away It* ,p
er to discharge It or to refuse to i
oharge It"
MRS. lAKGDOIf TAKEN HOKE.
Mrs. Roscoe Langdon, who for two
weeks was a patient at St Mary'i hos
pital. has been taken to her home. Her
many friends hope that she wilt
speedily recover.
TO VISIT ENTERPRISE LOOSE.
0. W. West, of Auburn, grand r"'J
collor of the West Virginia Klflg'
Pythias, was In the city Friday <
way from his home to Bnterpnae,
where he will pay an official visit:to
Big Blm lodge ot the order there the
same night :J
MA YOR MITCHELL
DEFENDSCOUNCL
Council Favors Trolley Line Ex
tension but It Must Be Ac
cording to Franchise.
Mayor D. L. Mitchell ot Stealer
Helghti. Issued the following state
ment Friday:
At a meeting of the common coun
cil ot Stealer Heights, Guy H. Burn
aide presented on the spur of the
moment a carefully worded two-page
typewritten matter, what he calls an
"Invitation" for the street car com
pany to extend Its lines In the town
of Stealey Heights, to be passed by
the common council and made a mat
ter of record and the mayor and re
corder signing same and attaching
thereto the town seal, .regardless of
what legal effect or privileges the
said 'invitation' might carry with
it, notwithstanding the franchise the
town of Stealey Heights granted to
the street car company a few years
ago, This Invitation was properly
referred to the proper committee for
consideration and upon report of this
committee the common council of
Stealey Heights decided not to gnuxt
the Invitation as requested by Attor
ney Burnside.
Mayor D. L. Mitchell In his instruc
tions and explanations before the
common council, plain, Just and
strictly based upon solid- business
principles, said In part:
"In matters of this kind the mode
of Inducing a pubUo utility corpora
tion to further grant or extend its
ways of convenience* and accommoda
tions to the cltisens'of a municipali
ty-Is. not by asking a city- council
to grant or do acts which In its opin
io ?ra ?}ust anfl n<jt ft? ftfej to
do and will take from them carta
privileges and safeguard* to proti
the cltisens and also to make;
effort to raise public sentiment i
roneously against the common cot
ell. I am of the opinion In matt<
of this kind the proper way la first,
secure petltlona from the oltiM
thereof and present same to'the pt
Uo utility corporation setting foi
their grievances, and in this mat;
I see no exceptions. 1 very much!
xreat that Mr. Guy H. Burnslde 1
seen fit to take auch steps to leave*
'erroneous impression on the comn
counoU* wtlh some of :'the cltisi
that it is against the street car oc
pany extending it* lines in Stea
Heights to further accommodate
cltiiena, I say frankly that
council 1s not and all who- comp
the common council will cast &
vote and use their influence
half of the street car company
tending Its lines, yet must do
strictly under the franchise whlcl
haa in the town of Stealey Heights
"It Is very evident that Mr. Bu
aide in municipal affairs acts
hasty and too much on the spur
the moment and that by- such: act
he causes much unpleasantness
tween the citizens and the comn
council. We recall last year In
common council he became a very
pleasant gentleman and severed
relationship with the town of Stei
Heights, and It looks as If his hi
action and uncalled for motives
this matter may prove undeslra
However, the street car company
extend Its lines in Stealey Height
it cares to and the common cound
