' mm
I Iron County Record. I
1 WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." I
J VOLUME XXIH tlM pen YEAIt CEDAR CITY, UTAU, FIMPAY, MAY 20, 1910, 5 CTS. PEtt COPY. Nljll 2T. 9
DISTINGUISHED
1 ' MORS C0I1
J Governor Spry With Other State
Jg and Railroad Officials Are
M Due Here Tomorrow.
M MAY PRESAGE A RAIL-
1' ROAD FOR THIS SECTION
.Ml .
m Visitors Will be Entertained and Ban-
quettcd by Commercial Club Tomor-
V row Eve. Mass Meeting at B. A. C.
JH Tomorrow (Saturday) Is looked for-
Jm ward to us nn important day in the
m development and progress of Cedar
W City. Tomorrow afternoon a party of
to State and railroad oflicials of high
' standing are duo to arrive hero for the
ijU! purpose of looking over local condi-
l tions and formulating plans for the
jK material welfare of this section of the
9 state.
The party, will be headed by Govcrn
tfl or Spry, and besides other members
M of the State Roads Commission, will
M include the following oflicials of the
M Salt Lake Route: F. A. Wann, gen-
eral traffic manager of the route; T.
a C. Peck, general passenger manager
M of the route, both of Los Angeles,
! California; J. H. Manderfleld, assist-
and passenger and traffic manager of
the rodd, who resides at' Salt Lake
City. In addition there will be other
i officials and attaches, including, also.
J. W. Paxman, dry farm demonstrator
for the Utah Agricultural College. In
' all the party will number 14 or 15.
They will leave the, Salt Lake Route
at Mllford and will make the trip here
and on down to the Little Zion canyon
1 in Washington county by automobile
Significance of the Trip.
A To the people of this section who arc
S J-rtHSMaae?' & J?c- with development matters
jfrHV-tKrviSlt tothlPsectlbVby so import
' $" ant a body of railroad officials is
Si fraught with a great deal of signific-
' "- ance. The fact that the party is leav-
ing the rail at Mllford and making the
trip down through the settlements, is
regarded as another important fea
ture. For the past year or two there
has been a good deal of agitation and
speculation in relation to a railroad
i into or through this section of the
I cpuntry, and while the railroad people
liavo been quite reticent in relation to
t the matter, behind their reticense we
have occasionally got a glimpse of an
J 4 encouraging sentiment on their part,
' and it is confidently believed that the
i real object of this visit is to make a
causual inspection of conditions, with
I a view to extending the road either
from Lund or Milford, whichever ap
' pears tho most feasible and profitable.
It Is the Rational Thing.
. It is doubtful if there exists else-
m where in tho United StateB a section
f of country anywhere of equal busi-
i f ness importance, possessing tho natur-
$ al resources and attractions with
j f"" which we are surrounded, within 30
"J ' V miles of a trunk line of railroad, and
M separated by a flat, level prairie, that
l has so long been denied a branch road,
''j : It is a condition that is too extraor-
, i j dinary to maintain much longer, and
;. we believe that the Salt Lake Route
1 ; is becoming awake to the fact, and
' I that wo may expect early and satis-
l ; , factory results to follow the present
j ; visit of tho officials of tho road,
j Commercial ClubJ3xtends Hospitality.
I The Commercial club is making ar-
' rangements for tho reception and en-
j ! tertainment of the visitors, and will
i ., extend to them a banquet at the Ced-
, f, ara Hotel tomorrow evening at 6:30,
i ', i in which a goodly number of the local
, , " business people will also participate.
, They will be shown a few of the re-
I sources and advantages of this section
during the afternoon, and in the ev
ening they will participate in a pub
lic gathering at tho B, A. C. auditor
ium. Sunday morning they will continue
tgheir journey south, Into tho Little
ffJon valloy in eastern Wahington
county, likely visiting Hurricane and
St. George, and passing through Co
dar City on the return trip next Wed
nesday. It is understood that tho visit of
Governor Spry and members of the
Stato Roads Commission has some
:, connection with tho construction of a
road into tho Little Zion, which has
been designated as a national monu
ment, and also with the building of
thVali-the-jrear xfMUi via th jn&
'rill K ,&W W.Utf ASgtfttf.
'JmW '
JH. I. A. CONFERENCE
TO BE INTERESTING
General Officers Urge as Many of the
Stake and Ward Officers to At
tend as Possibly Can.
Tho Stake superintendents of the
Y. M. and Y. L, M. I. A. of tho Pnro
wan stake have received from general
head quarters of the organization in
Salt Lake City ofllciol notice of the
annual conference of tho M. I. A. to
be held in Salt Lake June 8 to 11. The
Stake superintendency urge that ns
many stake and ward officers attend
the conference as possible.
The conference this year promises
to be of more than usual interest.
During tho season 8,000 officers and
nearly 75,000 members have taken
part in the 700 organizations in the
mountain states, which include Utah.
Idaho, Wyoming, Nevada, Arizona.
New Mexico and Colorado. Organi
zations arc also established in Canada
and Mexico and in many of the larger
cities of the east and Europe, and also
upon the islands of the Pacific ocean.
The first day of the conference will
be devoted entirely to Bee Hive and
Scout work. Members of the Bee
Hive committee will speak on their
work and point out its symbolism and
significance. Among the. subjects to
be discussed by the scout lenders will
be hikes, summer camps, songs, yells,
and tho successful managing of young
people. As a special feature thero
will bo a demonstration campflre gath
ering held in the Deseret gymnasium.
Friday there will be a meeting of
M. I. A. officers. Reports of the sea
son's work will be presented, and tho
new work for next year outlined. On
this afternoon will also bo held the
semi-final contests in public speaking
and music.
The grand final contests will bo hold
on Saturday, June 10. At tho close
of the contest gold medals will be pre
sented to the winners to signify their
achievement; also tho Church pen
nant to the stake winning in special
activities. In addition to the contests
the "Daughter of .Tarius" will be pre
sented by the combined mixed double
quartets of the Pioneer stake under
the direction of Tracy Y. Cannon.
On Saturday there will be three
nubile meetings. The first will be
held In tho Assembly Hnll rit 10:30
a. m. and the other two will bo in tho
Tabernacle, one at 2 p. m. and one at
7 p. m. Among the speakers will be
President Joseph F. Smith, Heber J.
Grant, B. H. Roberts, Counselor Ruth
M. Fox, Dr. George H. Brimhall and
Nophi L. Morris.
An excellent musical program is be
ing arranged for every meeting. The
Tabernaclo choir and grand organ, re
cently enlarged, and now the largest
and finest pipe organ In tho world,
will be heard at the afternoon and
evening meetings Sunday.
BASE BALL, PAROWAN
VERSUS CEDAR CITY
Weather conditions permitting, the
Cedar City base ball team will meet
the Parowan team on tho local dia
mond next Saturday afternoon.
Now is the time to boost if you want
Cedar City to have a team worthy of
the name.
The game will begin nt 2:30 sharp.
Admission ten cents.
Presbyterian Mission Services.
There will be no preaching Bcrvice
next Sunday evening, because of tho
B. A. C. baccalaureate sermon.
CLATON S. RICE, Minister.
THE WEEK'S OFFERINGS
AT THORLEY THEATRE
The following is the program of
moving picture plays to bo shown at
the Thorloy Electric theatre during
the week beginning Monday, May 29:
Monday night Robert Warwick in
"Tho Flash of an Emerald."
Tuesday five reel subject by tho
Universal Film Co. entitled, "Judge
Not."
Wednesday Western play by the
General Film Co.
Thursday five reels by the Metro
Company.
Friday Clara Kimball Young in
"Trilby'
Saturday G reel Western program,
including Broncho Billy.
Tho editor of Tho Record is in re
ceipt of a card from George H. Cros
by, Jr., dated at St, George and con
voying the information that he will
spend Sunday with us. Georgo is one
of our boyhood friends and playmates,
who is quite extensively known in
Utah, but who is now tho suporior
judge of Apache county, Arizona. At
ono timo ho resided in Richfield and
published a papor there; he was also
a clerk In the Utah Senate for a term
several years ago. He was called to
St. George on account of the illness
of his fnther, Georgo H. Crosby, Sr..
and while in tho state will pay a visit
to friends and relativos in various
towns. It is needless to add that we
will bo glad to see him again, after a
number of years. Ho is accompanied
by his family.
J. A. Kopp announces his inten
tion of installing a largo 350 gallon
Bowser gnB tank in front of hU giti-
COMMENCEMENT
AT BRANCH A.C.
Interesting Program Announced
for Baccalaureate and Com
mencement Exercises.
JUDGE JOSHUA GREEN
WOOD TO GIVE SERMON
Senior Class Exercises Tomorrow Ev
ening Will be Followed by an Im
portant Meeting in the Auditorium.
Patrons and friends of the B. A. G.
are cordially invited to attend the en
tertainments and meetings of com
mencement week. The following pro
grams are given for the public:
Friday, May 26, 8:00 P. M.
Junior Class exercises in B. A. C.
auditorium. Danco after class exercises.
Saturday, May 27, 8:00 P. M.
Senior Class exercises in B. A. C.
auditorium. Public meeting with the
State and Salt Lake Route officials af
ter the class exercises.
Sunday, May 28, 8:30 P. M.
Baccalaureate Services in Tabernac
le. PROGRAM.
Music Selection Chorus.
Invocation Rev. C. S. Rice.
Vocal Solo N. William Knudsen.
Baccalaureate Sermon Judge Josh
ua Greenwood.
Music Selection Quartette.
Bencdiciton Rev. Rice.
Monday, May 29, 11:00 A. M.
Commencement Exercises in B. A.
C. auditorium.
PROGRAM.
Overture B.A. C.jOrchsetra.. -
Invocation Pres.;L?NT Marsdoh.
Vocal Duet Mne Lunt and Scott
Matheson.
Address Pres. Lorenzo N. Stohl.
Graduate's Paper Leonard Bowen.
Address to Graduates Pres.-elect, Dr.
E. G. Peterson.
Vocal Solo N. William Knudsen.
Greetings from Board Members.
Presentation of Diplomas Principal
Roy F. Homer.
Music Selection Chorus.
Benediction Pres. L. N. Marsdon.
ROY F. HOMER, Principal.
ENOCH NOTES.
Enoch, Utah, May 23, 1910.
Last Thursday Patriarch John Lee
Jones of this placo celebrated his 75th
birthday. Many of his children and
grandchildren of this place and Cedar
were present, and all had a very en
joyable time. As a token of esteem
the honored guest was presented with
an expensive nnd handsome rocker.
Brother Jones is in the best of health
and is as spry as a young man. We
hope ho will yet live to enjoy many
happy birthdays.
Mr. and Mrs. John White of Red
Creek were visitors here last Thurs
day. Last Saturday evening the eighth
grade of the Enoch school rendered an
excellent program to a large and ap
preciative audience, after which the
teachers gave a danco for all tho pu
pils and visitors. Judging from the
number present, Enoch is certainly
growing.
Miss Jennie Rogcrson will leave for
Beaver tomorrow, where she will visit
with relatives for a short time and
then go on to Salt Lake City, where
she mil attend summer school.
r
Important Announcement.
We need more room and will give a
big reduction on Ladies, 'Misses and
Children's Trimmed Hats, at Mrs. M.
S. Rogcrson's, Enoch, Utah. Adv.
Tho committee appointed by the
clean-up organigation to co-operate
with the business men for the improve
ment of tho business district, have de
cided to make provision for four or
five neat garbage cans, to bo conven
iently placod on Main street, into
which people on tho streets in this
ocction will bo required to doposit all
wasto paper torn from thoir mall mat
ter, candy boxes, orange and banana
peollngs and all other waste materials
found in their possession, instead of
littering tho street with them, bb Is
too often dono at present. This will
bo one moro movo in tho right direction.
Bishop S. J. Foster has sold his
Studobaker car, which ho has been
driving for tho past couple of seasons,
and has purchased one of the new high
Wheeled Buicks. Mr. Foster cannot
endure the idea of being outdone or
oijtohc-DO by nnyono crstf of Ehafltj
President widtsoe
' congratulates
j Regrets Inability to be at Com
I mencement Exercises, Due to
i Absence from State.
REVIEWS ACCOMPLISH
MENTS OF THE B. A. C.
Believes Institution in Large Measure
is Responsible for the Industrial
Progress Notlcable in This Section.
Agricultural College of Utah, Lo
fan. Mav 15. 1910.
To lhR F(,uItv Students and Friends
of the Branch Agricultural Collet
Cedar Citv. Utnh. '
Ladies and Gentlemen: It is with n
great deal of rcirret thnt I find that
mv temporary absence from tho stato
will make it impossible for me to visit
the Institution before tlm ilnoin nf
the school year, which closes also my
official connection with tho Institu
tion, i am, therefore, writing vou
this note in placo of a personal visit,
to congrotulnte you upon the crent
work done by the Branch Agricultural
i,e5e ", kehnu of southern Utnh
?nVVvsh lt nn(1 vou Kreat success
in the future. i
When the Institution was trans
ferred to thp management of the Utnh
Agricultural College somo few yearn
nP I had high hopes that much good
Xri tj0 Achicvc(! bv Jt 1)ut I ""Id not
think that In so short n time so much
could be done as has been nchieved by
tho Branch Agricultural College.
There has been during the hut few
years a great Industrial development
In the southwestern part of our stato
iw uh ,e l, w,ou,d be f0,,V to claim
that it is all duo to the influence of
T?uiBr?nch Agricultural College, vet
J. tntink one might safely assort that
t hc.J"st.ltut50" ,h,as .toon n vital factor
n this Industrial development.
.The good will of tho people hasjieon.
of the greatest imnortance in making
the work of tho B. A. C. successful, i
It is impossible to speak In full nraso
of the support given the Institution
by tho peonle, particularly of Cedar
City, as well as the people of the set
tlements for many miles from the In
stitution, but in this section of the
state.
Prof. Roy F. Homer has proved
himself to bo tho right man in the
right place. His conscientious, Intel
ligent and painstaking work has mado
it possible for thte Branch Agricul
tural College to mako the best use of
Its opportunities. I am glad that
such men as Prof. Homer aro to be
found in our stato to undertake tho
work that arises from timo to timo.
i nave only good words to speak also
of the Faculty of the Institution, who.
with small salaries and inadequate
quipment, have done first class work
in behalf of tho institution.
The Student Body itself is ono of
the most loyal in tho Btate. Unon its
willingness to serve tho Institution
and carry onward its work wo have
nlwavs been able to rely. I hone thnt
somehow the Institution mnv bo alnV
to serve tho young peonle so woll nnd
and to teach them so fullv of the pos
sibilities of southern Utah that its
students may remain In southern
Utah, at least most of the time to
develop It. It Is nlwavs a handlran to
any section of tho land to have Its best
young blood move into other sections.
Southern Utah has been very gener
ous to the rest of the state In givinc
so many of its young peonle to other
sections, but I hope that tho time has
now come when, through the service
of the Branch Agricultural College, n
feeling may be established wherebv
the young people of southern Utah
may remain there to build it into the
magnificlent prpsperity that surely a
waits it.
I hope, also, that the state may find
it possible to contlnuo nnd to support
the Branch Agricultural Collecre. Thp
south may be sparsely populated but
it has a large promise and tho work of
the state at the present timo in be
half of the southern part of the state
is in the form of an investment that
in the course of a short time will yield
great returns.
To all who have assisted in the work
I give hearty thanks. So many have
helped me that my share of tho work
haB been exceedingly light.
Sincerely vours,
JOHN A. WIDTSOE.
President.
Wanted Care Taker and Janitor.
Bids will be received un to and In
cluding June 1, for tho janitor work
for the Ward Hall and Tabernaclo.
and taking care of the swimming
pool in the Ward Hall.
For further Information Beo the un
dorsigned. F. B. WOOD.
E. M. CORRY.
There was a meeting of tho Com
mercial club at tho Lybrary auditor
ium last evoning for the purpose of
attending to rogular and routino bus
iness and also to mako arrangements
for tho reception of tho party of state
,nnd railroad officials which i3 duo to
arrive hero tomorrow aftornoon, and
to further as far as nossiblo tho listing
JCJandsi la thja valley ut thtf P&icm
"""""" ""' " " Wa iWWWwwawMMniiH IH
I Home of H. E. Peterson jfl
i . H
When Miss Ina Leigh returned from
her recont mission to tho Central
States, much of which was spent in
Missouri, she brought back aomnng tho
mementos of her stay, quito a collec
tion of vIowb of So-qul-o-ta Park, now
owned by II. D. Peterson, who wbb far
a number of years a much respected
resident of Cedar City, and did con
siderable Important work in this coun
ty, including, tho ln$onfal
! water systems for ICanarravllle and
Paragonah. Miss Leigh also brought
back tho information that Mr. Peter
son and his family, together with Mes
srs. Utley and Manly, who were ulso
engaged in tho plumbing business
hero for somo time, were exceedingly
kind to her and to other Mormon mis
sionaries from Utah, making them
welcome to tho hospitality of their
homes, and Mr. Peterson granting
them the freedom of his quaint and
CHALMERS CAR
IS PATHFINDER1
Will Mark Route for Long Sociability
Tour, from Minneapolis to the
Yellowstone next July.
President W. W. Smith, of tho Na
tional Parks Highway Association,
has announced the selection of a
Chalmers .1400 r. p. m. Eix-30 car aB
the pathfinder for the Roolabilitv tour
from Minneapolis to Yellowstone Na
tional Park. Next week this car will
leave the Twin Cities for the ninn
days hike nrocss the Northwest, five
passengers being carried. Three news
Paner writers will make the trip nnd
will leavo Minneapolis Saturday, May
nnTh'mt0UI.W.nl "0t b( n'" Until Julv
20. The Chalmers 3400 r. p. m. wil'
go over the route twice and mark it
so that a schedule of about twenty
miles per hour will bo possihlo in July.
The selection of the Chalmers is a
compliment to tho power of the re
markable onginiuand the easy riding
qualities of tho car, for the tour will
traverso pait of the wonderful moun
tain region of the northwest in addi
tion to crossing tho prairie wheat
lands of Dakota.
This tour is being called tho "4-0-8-Yellowstone
Park Tour," tho numerals
referring to tho fact that cars of all
size ongines will bo in it. Tho route
will bo along tho National Park High
way going over tho right of way of
the Northern Pacific railroad. Tho
company will run a special train to
carry the baggage of the entrants.
Fpur days will be spent in the park
while celebrations of various kinds will
mark each stop.
Tho tentative plan of the tour calls
for tho first night atop at Staples,
Minn., Becond at Fargo, N. D., third at
Bismarck, N. D fourth at Dickinson,
N. D., fifth at Medora, N. D., sixth at
Miles City, Mont., seventh at For
aythe, Mont., eighth at Billings, Mont.,
and nintth at Livingston, Mont. En
trance to the park will ho mado at
Gradiner on tho tenth day
Tho Chalmers pathfinding car will
be driven from Detroit to Minneapolis,
leaving the ChalmerB plant Monday
morning. It will bo under the direc
tion of Homer C. Georgo, of the ad
vertising department; and W. II.
Brooka of tho engineering division.
J. D. Leigh of Lund, Utah, is agent
for 0kulnaor cars lu Iron uruativ-
A4ft
I
beautiful park, only a faint idea of lM
which can be formed from tho two lM
views horewlth presented. The spa- J
clous grounds contain large cool caves, "B
tunnels, woods and lakes, the principal
crop grown being mushrooms, for fl
which ho has a ready cash market all .H
the while. "tlH
Mr. Petorson drives a fine Packard Fl
car and evidently js doing, well. No- lll
gotlations'were ponding when Miss..... wvLH
grounds for a public park, and if the rH
sale is consummated, it is just possi- H
bio that Mr. Petorson will como west JH
again, either remaining in Denver or 1
coming on to Cedar City. He likes H
the western country best on account H
of tho climnto and altitude, which are ,H
condusive to health. H
Mr. Peterson has a great many sin, '
cere friends here and should he decide
to return ho will bo given a hearty H
welcome. "
Mr. and Mrs. Hyrum Jones of B
Enoch were in tho city yesterday at- H
tending to business. H
The baccalaureato sermon to tho - 7H
graduates will bo delivered in the tab- H
ernaclo Sunday evening, by Judge H
Joshua Greenwood. The public aro H
invited to attend. H
Eddlo Parry is back from Lexington H
Cnnyon, about ton miles from Garrl- H
son. White Pine county, Novadn, where H
he has been prospecting and iorating "H
shoohte properties for S. A. Iligbeo 'H
nnd J. H. Arthur. He brought buck EM
some good samples of tho valuable H
rock and reports having secured somo rMmmf
good claims. Em Walker has also cH
been in that part of tho country on H
behalf of himself nnd other Cedar 'H
City people. H
S. A. Halterman drove a Hudson H
Super-six down from Parowan vop- H
torday afternoon nnd spent a 'few H
hours in demonstrating it to local nu- "H
tomobile enthusiasts. The car is ner- H
tainly constructed on handsome lins, H
nnd presents a beautiful appparniuo. H
It also appeals In have about all thnt H
could be desired in tho way of pow i-r, H
though the one shown here ya n "' H
and a little stiff. Mr. Haltonlinn v. is 'fM
accompanied from the county seat by H
Dr. E. Smith, Lawrence Adams and H
A. H. Rollo. HH
Mr. T. ,C. Hoyt, candidnto for contf- H
rcssman from this tho First Congress- jH
ional district, was in Cedar City this jlH
morning and mado The Record a pleas- PS
ant call. Mr, Hoyt has been making 3
a tour of a largo portion of tho first
district, and appears to bo well satis- &!
fled with his present prospects for ''l&SM
landing the nomination, which may be $ffi$
regarded as almost equivalent to an fM t
ejection if no unforscen contingency igwl
Bhall arise. Mr, Hoyt was persuaded v M& :
to remain in the city over Saturday, mS." .;
but had engagements In tho northern WT
part of the stato he could not break, JM
to left on the auto this afternoon. sfSr
The swimming pool is not being tyffi
used much 3 yet. Some difficulty is Wter
reported in getting tho wnter heated &Dti
to a comfortable tomporaturo. How- f eflfs
over, it has hardly been thoroughly iwM
tested out yet. If thero is any real M'
trouble oxporiencod the contractor is SSgfc
under a heavy bond for a year to mako tmrnmrnm
everything satisfactory. Some dlffi- H
culty is also being found to-obtain the 1
services of a suitablo pers6rtviomun- M
age the business on terms that will al- M
low a margin of profit for tho invest- 8H
mont, nnd at tho same time meet the Bm
demands of tho public. However, these Bl
problems wil nodoubt bo solved soon H
and the pool gotten lato regular com- B
. n
""'""a. ifiUx-fcirs : y -wol4pjJbHPB MliHBB
