. x oedHionary Force Kills Bandit Leade
33A.RRISBTTR & TELEGRAPH
t vv v\r \t„ pn nv carimkk <t ( k>ts a week.
LAAAV INIO. I~U SINGI.E COI'IE* 2 CENTS.
FIERCE BATTLE
RAGES ATVERDUN j
* WITH NO CHANGE
French Regain Some of Ground j
Lost East of Mouse; Stop
Dead Man Hill Drive
EXPECT NEW ATTACK
I
Crown Prince Preparing To
Rush Left Flank; Austrian
Advance Slackening
Violent fighting continued on the
Verdun front but according to the
afternoon bulletin of the French War !
''ffice It has resulted in few changes.
The French have regained some of;
the ground lost yesterday between i
Haudremont wood and the Thiamont ,
farm east of the Meuse, says the
official statement, while west of that
stream a German attack on Dead Man
Hill WPS stopped by the French barrier
fire.
New efforts by the German crown
prince to advance against the French
left flank between Dead >lan Hill and \
the Avocourt wood are probably in
preparation as the artillery bombard- j
ment there Is reported as particularly
Intense.
Austrian* Easing
The Austrian drive into Italian j
territory apparently is not proceeding
with anything like its initial velocity. !
The opinion is expressed in Rome that i
a continuance of the advance will
show a reversal of the conditions that j
heretofore have favored the Austrian!
owing to the superior communication
lines in the Italian rear.
Indications that some military move
of Importance is Impending in the
Balkans are contained in dispatches
from Greece which report exceptional
activity in Saloniki. The entente pow
ers have had a force supposedly of
notable strength massed there for
some time.
SHIP ATTACKS STIR GREEKS
By Associated Press
Athens. May 26. The agitation
throughout Greece caused by the
news that Teutonic submarines had
torpedoed three Greek vessels con
tinues to grow. Resolutions have
been passed by the League of Ship
Owners and the Sailors' Labor Union
demanding that the government take,
action to stop attacks on Greek mer
chantshlps.
Three Killed, Many Hurt,
Much Damage in Phila. Storm
Special to the Telegraph
Philadelphia. May 26. Two girls
snd a young man were killed, a wom
an was probably fatally burned and
half .a dozen others were injured yes
terday in a short but terrific electrical
storm that swept the city as an un
expected and awesome climax to the
hottes' day so far this year.
A barn at the Falls of Schuylkill,
n which two men and three girls took
refuge from the storm, was struck
by lightning and partly demolished.
Rcdles of three killed instantly by the
ipktnlng were buried under the debris
>")f the wrecked building. The other
two escaped with bruises, but are
suffering from shock.
Destroyer Commander Is
Killed by Electric Shock
By Associated Press
Sag Harbor, L. 1., 'May 26.—Lieut,
'larence Alvin Richards, commander
if the United States destroyer Fanning,
was instantly killed by an electric
*hock in the station of the Sag Harbor
Light and Power Company here early
:o-day. Harry D. Christian, night
watchman at the station, said it ap
peared to him that the lieutenant de
liberately committed suicide by taking
hold of two heavily charged wires.
The Fanning was one of a fleet of
war vessels which has been maneuver
ing in Gardiner® l»ay making their
headquarters here but the vessels were
under orders to leave for Newport at
3 a. m. Why Lieut. Richards was
ashore after the sailing orders were is
sued is unknown. Christian said the
lieutenant came to the power station
two hours before the fleet was to sail
and said he was a government inspec
tor. He pushed Christian aside and
walking into the station picked up two
wires, receiving the shock which killed
him. Lieut. J. C. Jennings, command
ing the shore station, who took charge
of the body, declined to give any in
formation other than he would report
to the Navy Department. Lieut. Rich
ards was appointed to the Navy from
Kansas and was 34 years old.
THE WEATHER
For Hfirrinhurn nail vicinity: Fair
to-night and Saturday; Momeuliut
wanner Saturday.
For KaMern Pennnj Ivanfa: Fair to-
and Saturday: warmer Sat
urday In nnrthcnxtci'ii portion;
moderate norllieaftt to east
winds.
Klver
The Suftfjiielipuna ri\er and all 11m
branches nil! tall. A Matte of
ahont r».« feet I* Indicated for
HarrUhurg Saturday morning.
General Conditlonn
The Western storm lihn moved
northeastward and uow cover*
nearly all tlie country between
the Hooky Mountains and the
- Mississippi river, with Its center
* over Northern Minnesota.
Pressure decreased rapidly Thurs
day In the Middle Atlantic States,
and there were showers and
thunderstorms In \ew Jersey*
Pennsylvania and Virginia. It is
2 to 20 degrees cooler this morn
ing In the Central Plains States
and over the greater part of the
Rooky Mountains
Temperature: H a. m. t 64.
Sun: Rises, 4:41 a. m. sets, 7:21
p. m.
Moon: New moon. May 31, 2:37
a. m.
River Stage: six feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, S3.
Lowest temperature. 3(1.
Mean tepipe rat lire. 7©.
.Normal temperature, 05.
WOMEN EXCLUDED
I FROi COURTROOM
IN WAITE TRIAL
Accused Dentist Continues Sor-<
did Story of His Life;
Appears Pale
NO PLOT AGAINST WIFE
Denies He Ever Planned to Kill
Ker; Admits Being a Per
sistent Thief
By Associated Press
New York, May 2 B.—Women were I
excluded from the courtroom when
Dr. Arthur W. Waite resumed the wit- J
ness stand to-day in his trial for mur- !
I dering his father-in-law, John E. Peck. I
Hundreds of persons in the corrl- I
dors vainly tried to gain admission to
! the courtroom. Watte appeared pale,
l>ut seemed to have braced himself to |
face the ordeal.
His counsel, Walter R. Deuel, 'old
Justice Sliearn that he had only a few
more questions to ask the dentist he
fore the cross-examination would
, begin.
"Did you ever try to kill your wife?"
! asked Mr. Deuel.
"No," replied Dr. Waite.
! "Did you ever plan to kill her?"
"No. never."
"You never thought you might kill J
her?"
"I am not sure that T would not 1
j have killed her," said Waite.
Waite yesterday admitted that he |
had killed the aged man with arsenic. \
and added that he had killed his j
| mother-in-law with disease germs and j
! made several unsuccessful attempts on |
[Continued on Pago 20]
• 18 Women Hurt by Police
in German Riot For Meat
By Associated Press
London. May 26. An Amsterdam
' dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph
| Company says that IS women were
! wounded in a fight between police and
food rioters at Frankfort on the Main
Wednesday night, according to a dis
patch received at the Hague.
The riot is said to have started
owning to a shortage of vieat in the
local butcher shops. Three hundred
?.nd fifty women who had been told i
i there was no meat for them, marched
i through the streets carrying black
flags and singing Socialistic songs.
The women forced their way into
• one butcher shop although It was
guarded by soldiers and policemen. I
After a search they found some meat
which they cut up and continued their
march holding the pieces above their ,
heads.
Police attempted to take the meat
front the women and a general fight
followed n which the officers used
their swords. One woman was ar
rested for shouting "down with the
Emperor."
Ford to Do His 'Damnedest';
'Tinkers' With New U-Boat
i j Special to the Telegraph
' Chicago, May 26.—Henry Ford, in an
'! interview which the Chicago Tribune
' prints criticises Thomas A. Edison for
| marching in "that fool parade" In New
York, and emphasizes li is opposition
I to war and preparedness.
"Great military achievements in his
; tory," Mr. Ford said, "mean nothing to
• | me." History is more or less hunk. It's
' tradition. We don't want tradition. We
i want to live in the present. We've got
' the war fever over here, because they've
got a war over there. Some one has
'.'got to ay the bill. Who? The work
ing classes.
"I'll do my damnedest to smash this
1 thing, and if there Is anything I ever
■ was sincere about, it is this. We don't
• i want battleships. There is only one
t , thing we need submarines. I think
|we will have submarines before long
that will blow this whole ship business
" off the world. Yes, I have been tinker
fjing some with a submarine Idea. I
] think It will come in a tittle while, and
f say, if it does, look out."
[i Little Girl Who Sold Candy
to Capitol Hill Men Dies
gj Employes of the State Highway and
! other State departments to-day col
-1 lected money to send to the family
. of little Susan Ellenberger, 1627 Lo
gan Street, Who died last night. Little
3 ; Susan was well known about the Cap
\ itol where she has sold candy for the
. i last three years in the various depart
, ments. Her father is incapacitated
J from work through chronic illness and
t; little Susan aided the family by selling
. the candy made by her mother. She
j was about twelve years old. Her
death was due to valvular heart trou
• ble and she was known and loved by
. | hundreds of Harrlsburg people.
It is intended to send a small floral
tribute to her home anil to turn the
balance of the money over to her
t mother. Funeral services will be held
Monday afternoon at 2 o'clock, with
thn Rev. Edwin Rupp, pastor of Otter
j bein United Brethren Church officiat
ing. Burial will be made in the East
. Harrisburg Cemetery.
MAYOIt MKVI.S BETTER
I Mayor K. S. Meals, who is In the
Harrisburg Hospital suffering from
, cardiac asthma, rested comfortably
during the night and his physicians an
nounced that lie was much better to
day. His recovery is expected.
H A HOI.I) CI, AHK HOXORESD
Harold A. Clark, former Central foot-
I ball star and all-around athlete, who
has been winning laurels at Penn-
State. was yesterday given another
: honor. He was unanimously elected
president of the Senior class for next
j year.
THAW GUTS Ay OTHER
Paris. May 2ti. Lieut. William
Thaw of the j. ranco-American avia
tion camp shot down a Fokker aero
; plane in the region of Verdun yes
i terday.
IJeut. Thaw has been decorated
twice and twice cited in the orders of
the day for daring exploits in the air.
MISSIONARIES IX DANGER
Washington, D. C., May 2 6.—State
Department officials expressed anxiety
to-day over the situation of American
missionaries and native Christians in
Syria, who are reported through
French sources to lie threatened bv
* anti-Christian uprising.
HARRISBURG, PA.. FRIDAY EVENING, MAY 26, 1916.
Dauphin County School Teachers Break Stone on Road; Governor Aids
Under the direction of County Recorder James E. Lentz, a very large number of good roads enthusiasts
of Elizabethville and vicinity yesterday turned out to help repair the roads. Among them were a score or more
of school teachers, who, as shown by the accompanying picture, donned sunbonnets and handled hammers on
the stone pile. With them for a time, labored Governor Brumbaugh.
TO THE BOYS AND
GIRLS OF HARRISBURG
DECORATION DAT, day of flags, and flowers, and green, grass
covefed graves. Decoration Day, the time of sobs and tears, of
prayers, and memories, and smiles. Decoration Day!
It comes only once a year, this brave holiday, on the boundary line
between May and June, Spring and summertime. Schools give a holi
day and banks close. Business is shut up, and the tired worklngman
hangs a flag out over his porch, and rests. Old soldiers, tottering on
canes, soldiers bent and white-headed, waiting for the last "taps" to be
sounded, get out their suits of blue and gray, covered with tarnished
gold lace and brass buttons, and hobble to the cemetery to lay a wreath
on some comrade's last restingplace.
It is a beautiful thing to think of a nation celebrating a day—
setting It apart from all others —for the purpose of honoring the na
tion's heroes. It is an even more beautiful thought that the oppor
tunity is thus offered for the boys and girls of the country to show their
appreciation for the sacrifices of the men who fought that the nation
might be saved to us of the younger generations.
And Boys and Girls, here is how you may do It.
The Telegraph wants every schoolboy and ever) schoolgirl in Har
risburg to take to the rooms of Post 58, G. A. R., 26 North Third street,
at 8 o'clock or as soon thereafter as possible, Memorial Day morning,
a bunch of flowers for use In decorating the graves in the various ceme
teries. All of the three Grand Army Posts in the city and the other
veterans' organizations will have their headquarters at the Post 58
rooms, and the flowers will be divided among them. A committee of
ladies will be on hand to take care of the flowers and see that they
are distributed.
Garden flowers are cheap and wild flowers are plentiful. If you
have not the money to buy, go into the fields and woods and pick a
bunch. They will be gladly received.
Be a little patriot. Honor the men who died for their country's
sake. Give a bunch of flowers for the graves of our dead heroes.
CENTRAL HIGH
FOR WEST SHORE
Can Be Erected For Slight In
crease in Millage; Movement
Is Popular
The initial step in the consolidation
of the high schools of the West Shore
was taken last night when a joint
meeting of the school boards of that
section was held in the directors'
room of the Lemoyne Trust Company.
Edward F. Baum, of Wormleysburg,
was elected temporary chairman, and
Harry C. Knier of the same district,
temporary secretary.
The secretary was authorized to col
lect statistics of the valuation of the
boroughs the cost of running the
schools under the present system and
[Continued on Page 15]
STATE LEAGUE
GIVES UP GHOST
Dies Quietly and Not Unex
pectedly at 12.56 This
Afternoon
The Pennsylvania State League died
a natural and not unexpected death
a' 12.56 to-day. ,
Its demise was announced by Leo
Groom, the league promoter. He told
President William R. Douglass, of this
[Continued on Page 20]
LANSING WILL NOT RESIGN
Washington, May 26. Secretary
Lansing attended the cabinet meet
ing to-day after having been confined
to his home hy an attack of indiges
tion for nearly a week. The secretary
said he had been able to do little
work during his illness, the effect of
which he still showed when he ar
rived at the White House. Mr. Lan
sing personally denied that he was
considering resigning as he left the
White House.
CHIEF WOULD MUZZLE DOGS
Chief of Police J. Thomas Zeil an
nounced this morning that he has
completed arrangements for the ap
pointment of a dog catcher for the
summer. The chief favors all dogs
being muzzled, when running at large
or. the streets.
JEALOUS BOY KILLS GIRL
Aurora, 111.. May 26.—Gwendolyne,
1 o-year-old daughter of Mrs. Anna
Collins, was found dead In her home
here last night, and "Jack" Armstrong,
19 years old, confessed yesterday, the!
police say. that he choked the girl to
death through jealousy ,
AUDITOR GENERAL
DISMISSES TWO
Didn't Line Up at Primaries
It Is Said; "Incompetence"
Given as Reason
Robert M. Rorer, of Richboro,
Bucks county, and Samuel R. Ogden,
Lansdowne, Delaware county, were to
day dismissed as clerks in the Auditor
General's Department on orders from
Auditor General A. W. Powell. It is
said there will be more heads fall
before sundown.
, The Auditor General was away and
the only information which could be
obtained regarding the matter was
from Chief Clerk W. B. Kay, who
; conflri id the reports of dismissals
(Continue*! on Page 16.)
TAFT WANTS U. S.
IN WORLD COURT
Urges Membership in Combina
tion of Powers to Use
Force to Get Peace
By Associated Press
Washington, May 26. The object
of the League to enforce peace is not
! to urge President Wilson to take steps
! to Stop the present war, former Presi
dent Taft, president of the league, de
clared to-day in opening its two-day
session here.
"We are not here," he said, "to urge
upon the present Administration steps
Ito stop the present war. Not that we
are not hopeful that such steps may
be taken and not that we do not look
with the greatest satisfaction on any
indication that the war is to come
j to an end, but we believe that a defi
nite purpose, a purpose with limita
tions for an association like this, is
much more likely to he realized than
a general platform for the benefit of
humanity."
Hone Uor World Pact
The league hoped, Mr. Taft said, for
a world agreement on a method to
make war less probable.
PROF. NOYES TO ENTER W \R
Princeton. N. J., May 26. Alfred
Noyes, the British poet and professor
of English at Princeton University will
sail in company with his wife for
English Monday on the Nietnv Amster
dam with a v'ew to entering the war
"I think probably I shall engage in
ambulance work in England," snld
Prof. Noyes. "If I cannot get into the
regular army I want to do whatever
will be of the most use and go where
L my services will count for the most."
100,000 WORKED
ON STATE ROADS
Second Event of Kind Brought
Far Greater Results
Than First
COUN TI E S REPORTING
Carloads of Material Contrib
uted by Corporations and
Individuals
Pennsylvania's second State-wide
Good Roads Day far exceeded In num
ber of volunteers, work done and do
nations made the first day upon which
the people of the Commonwealth were
called upon to give of their time, labor
and means for the good of the travel
ing public. Reports would indicate
that between 100.000 and 150,000 per
sons turned out and worked.
Dauphin and Perry counties, which '
were visited by Governor Brumbaugh, !
kept pace with Cumberland, Snyder,
Franklin, Lebanon, Lancaster and
others where the interest in improv
ing the roads was marked and have
been highly complimented for the
sytemp.tic way in which work was
handled and results achieved.
Ann"al State-wide Good Roads Day,
if. is held, will result in everlasting
improvement to the roads because
people will not be content to endure
[Continued on Pasc 13]
Boost Second St. as
Steelton Traffic Way
South Second street's advantages as
the future traffic way to Steelton as
j compared to the Mulberry street via
duct-Cameron street loute, was again
j boosted to-day at tlie continued hear
ing of claims for damages incident to
the construction of the Second and
| Front street subways. The hearings
j will be resumed at 2 o'clock Monday.
In answer to a question from City
Solicitor D. S. Seitz, ex-Common Coun
cilman Charles F. Crabbe said he con
sidered the South Second street route
Ithe most feasible.
MOTHER .lAILEB FOR BEATING
SOX; 53 SEPARATE HURTS
New York. May 24. Convicted
of cruelly beating her 4-year-oid son,
Mrs. Annie Guizdor, was sentenced
jto three months in the penitentiary
I yesterday. Dr. William Travis Gibli,
: examining physician for the Children's
[Society, told the court that he had ex
amined Frank, the boy, and found
i that his nose had been broken, the
j sight of both eyes impaired and his
j body covered with abrasions and con
tusions.
"All told." said Dr. Gibh, "i found
53 separate injuries upon his body,
which, in my opinion, were produced
with some weapon."
MAKES WILL FACING DEATH
Eureka, Utah, May 26. As earth
displaced by a cave-in at the Bullion
Beck mine was slowly entombing him,
W. C. Colburn, a mine.-, 28 years old,
conversed for 45 minutes with those
attempting to rescue him, made ver
bal disposition of his property and
asked his friends to care for his wife
and five young children.
SLAIN WHEN FEUD REVIVES
Lexington, Ky.. May 26.—The Kim
bell-Lacey feud in Wayne county,
which lias been lying dormant for
some time, broke out yesterday, and in
a general battle June. Kimbell was kill
ed and Galvin and George Lacey badly
wounded.
BLAZING SHIP BEACHED
Hong Kong, May 26. The British
steamer Wisley. from New York Feb
ruary 29, via Port Natal, April 25, for
Vladlvostock is reported on tire and
beached off Cape Yarela, Cochin
China. Assistance has been sent to
her.
WILL. VOLUNTARILY STOP
KOH MAIL INSPECTION
Ohristlanla. May 26.—The Norwegian-
American Line lias decided to have all
its steamships which sail between
America and Norway enter Kirkwall
voluntarily for inspection of their
malls, in order to avoid complications
arising from attempts to evade the
British authorities by taking tliu more
northerly course.
SOLDIERS KILL I
BANDIT LEADER
CLOSE TO VILLA
One American Killed and Two
Hurt in Fight Which Fol
lows Attack by Cervantes
OUTNUMBERED 2 TO 1
Private Lays Both Outlaws
Low; Long Were Thorns in
Side of Army
By Associated Press
Field Headquarters near Namiqulpa,
I Mex., May 25, via Radio to Columbus.
|X. M., May 26. Candelario Cervan
[tes. the Villa bandit leader was killed
I by American troops south of Cruces to-
I day.
! The other Mexican"" Jose VsancoruT
and an American were killed. Two
Americans were wounded.
Cervantes' end came after he hail
made a surprise attack south of Cru
cas on a detachment of engineers re
pairing the motor truck road. He was
beaten back and pursued into the hills
by the engineers, who had been rein
forced by a detachment of the Seventh I
Infantry.
When the engagement began the
bandits outnumbered the Americans ;
two to one, there being twenty of!
them. The engagement lasted almost
an hour, with a hot interchange of
bullets. Theid reinforcements from
[Continued on Page 15]
Dare Not Climb on Park
Terraces Declare Officials
■ Climbing up the river bank or Reser
voir Park slopes, except by way of the
, steps provided for the purpose, 'will not
I be tolerated by the City Park Depart
j ment. and rigid Instructions to this ef
| feet will be impressed upon the park
I policemen when they go on duty for
the summer.
Running of automobiles in the parks
and parkways at a speed greater than
twenty miles an hour Is prohibited, too.
j In congested sections and at all turns
I the speed is to be reduced to eight
! miles.
roi.. 11l T« HISON Itl".VI'S HUTTER
Special to the Telegrapl
I Chambersburg, Pa May 26. Col
o! nel Joseph B. Hutchison, commander of
1 the Eighth Regiment. National Guard of
I rennsylvania, and ex-chief of police of
I Harrisburg. is resting comfortably at
1 the home of Mr. and Mrs. Christian H.
Nlcklas. 334 South Main street, but is
still confined to bed.
i> i* n
1 PRESIDENT CONSF CE MOVE $f
| Washington, May 26. President Wilson is giving I
I more serious consideration to the possibility of restoring £
J f peace to Europe than at any si ne since the outbreak of the 1
I war. From an authoritative source it was learned to-day L
I 9 tha< the President is preparing to do everything possible ir. 1
| I an informal way to bring about the discussion of peace be- 1
£ tween belligerent nations although he has not indicated hi;. T
II 1 intention immediately to offer his services formally as I
3 mediator. Y
T PALMER SPENT LITTLE f
j i Karrisburg. Charles Palmer, candidate for Supreme m
I j court, to-day certified that he did not spend over fifty dol- f
I I lars in the campaign. Justice Walling made a similar re- v
i If port a few days ago. I
j I St. Faul, Minn., May 26.—Dr. William Mayo, surgeon £
j ? of Rochester, Minn., is hurrying to St. Paul on a special I
i I trair to attend James J. Hill, who is ill at his home here. A
1 Mr. Kill, who has been ill for ten days, is thought to have £
»| J taken a bad turn. 1
' I DIAMOND RING STOLEN? T
' Y Steelton. lnvestigation is being made of the alleged I
! I loss of a diamond ring from the local office of the Adams ] *
■ 9 Express Company, South Front street. The ring was con- '
I 1 sij=;ncd to Miss Nila Woodcock, 429 Swatara street, a Senior ® ►
1 & in the Steelton High School. The box in which the ring was ! 1
9 shipped from Waynesboro was found broken open this * f
| J morning. ' |
; i SCHOOLBOY STABBED IN BACK ' '
■ 1 Harrisburg. Carl Beck, aged 16, 22 North Summit
' i street, a student of the Lincoln Grammar School, was stab- ' r
I bed in the back twice this afternoon by another schoolboy ;
; : i "whose name he did not know. Beck was taken to the Har- ' ►
; j | risburg Hospital and the police were notified. ! '
| New Haven, Conn., May 26.—The Rev. Dr. Timothy • \
T Dwight, former president of Yale University, died at his !
J home here to-day. Dr. Dwight was born at Norwich,« ►
ll® November 16, 1828, was graduated from Yale in 1849, and I
| i was president of the university from 1886 to 1899, when he |
| < • was succeeded by Dr. Arthur T. Hadley. ' <
. M ARM AGE LICENSES «!
I 1 :
l Hldillrttmn, and Mjrile K. Rlmlnrr. Scrantoa. I
22 PAGES CITY EDITION
SOCIAL CENTERS
HELP KEEP MEN
FROM SALOON
Less Money Would Be Spent
For Drink and the Movies
by Middle Classes
CLERGYMEN INTERESTED
Parent-Teacher Association Is
Paving Way For Organizing
Community Clubs
By ANNA 11. WOOD
The word "club" ctnbraces what is
really the primary idea of the com
munity center. The saloon has long
filled this want for the poor man. Be
in* unable to take his family thero
with him, ho deals out the nickels
and dimes for a moving picture show
for their amusement. This money in
a year frequently amounts to a con
siderable sum and the family budget
would be enriched accordingly if
the money bad remained unspent
while parents and children together
found their pleasure in the school
building during the evening hours.
1 There is an old quotation that "Father
and mother are joint partners with
God in the perpetuating of mankind."
i Why then should the parents feel
i themselves superior to seeking enter
tainment in the building which houses
[Continued oil Page I]
TECH SENIORS SAY GOOI>-BY
Members of the Tech faculty and
Istudent body said "farewell" to the 5(5
I members of the senior class to-day
i when they conclude-., their final exam
inations at the Walnut street institu
tion. Songs appropriate to the occa
sion were sung by the student body,
and the final words to the class as a
whole were given by Dr. C. . Fagrer,
principal or tne scnool. All of the
members of the class concluded their
final work to-day, and following the
announcement of honors next, week,
the members of the class will prepare
for commencement activities. In th"
meanwhile twenty members of the
class chaperoned by a member of I h*»
faculty will lake a trip to New York
city and West Point.
WRRERA SURVIVORS I.AM)
Bonifacio, Corsica, May 26.
| Twenty-four survivors of the crew of
the. Spanish steamer Aurrera, which
was sunk by a submarine, have ar
' rived at this port In two of the ship's
small boats.
