lljii""NTEE$ ITS ADVERTSERSjETWEgHJWELVE AND THIRTEEN HUNDRED CIRCULATION EACH AND EVERY WEEK OF THE YEAR 1
IfiifiNTAN? BINDING ttlg&tmtt&& legal blanks 1
; , slr,mnUltlng card to a K I I SSft ITNSrVLtiKc
a ill nnd a quality of work nt ll V 1 II II J IjLWaSfcjjfPkrx A3bI1 Hll liKlll ,., a , T . , ... . , H
M bound I '"' -fl.i.factory. Idtho- TOV ) j I II ll--JTi-3?Ww;W(rV -IssN II II II II Tl,e Hu" " l "took all tcffal .
wp.idin Rood, and tlic like. 5 $Ti-ay falk' 1L' W J""5?' ,,H,"! nl,11SoHc '""""V COn" IH
nuted "l" "...,, .-, ,i ,.,,.. T7 -cr "CiX r tract nnd the liki The mott com- 'OSS
tk' wm,p!' !'S. t ,iht nrliM. PHI ITIPAI I V D IT m I r i Am Plcte sto. k in Hnstirn Ptnh Order. M
' 'mcULi;?,0niV?donThoBSI; . . rULI ICALLY, REPUBLICAN. "' ' me.l l" received.
f ttt r printing I dono The Bun Knteretl -, Se.ond ( iHM Muter Juno t loir. ..,., , U l The Hun fill ) our legal blank or- ifSH
"ill Jo I' VOMJMF I. Vf'MiiLM, ... ' ,9. nt tho I'o.tofnce nt I'rlce. ftnb. t'mler the Act of Mnrch 3 l7 ,ler When belter printing nnd hind. Iflfl
' 1' ' ftLMI"- EVERY FRIDAY MAY 2.5. ISM "" " ""nt Tl,f H"n "'" d0 "'
Iprigesoncattle
I MKl advances
uiiiii- sii'i-M is a holt un:
smi s last m:i:k.
H, Ulllloti Hllen !l ' Hc fill
H on i:ir)lliliiK Tmile Wn. AttlU'
B .uid Cntllf Went Over the Settle
H ('jirT)lne tin Whole I'M Mhti
H VntUt I'trni nnil Prlte Higher.
H t Sun "I" Ml Hen Ice.
I KANSAS ( ITV. Mo.. Mn) 32. Cut
H pti f) n.lvniiccd Hround twent)
H j cent lust week, nnd closed firm.
H e ru('l-t todny . Ik ten thousand
MlH 4J Mtne n on Inst Monday, nnd
.fonK condition nre ugnln effective.
trsiH utilJItion svllcnt got ' hovy fill on
H i tnthlng trade wn active, nnd cut
Bi rrnt over lliw nculet cnrrjInK the
J If shole fill Tho feature todny uhk n
Hi H train of tnrnly-Mx rurn of rattle and
jnrrin llroketi Mow, Noli., ulikti
H r id', til) three hundred II ml e.nty
, r H r,i. run In twenty-two hour, nnd
H nUlnul Miem nt I9.0& nnd $9 Xt,
K rj latter t.rkt top for the da) Colo-
rj pull frd Kleem ueru not n nu
. H r ri. n- .n recent Mondny, luont of
,TB tb m nt G0 unit tV.CO, n few nt
? j:5 lilk of tho beef utter rntme
jTM om 75 to ID. CO, there being no
l ncr ntiMliltiK that can be willed
," heap Idaho pulpfed uleern brought
v.1 t 19 IoiIas a ns'oril price, and Mme
.H M IJtl.J fed Hteerit brought l!l.!0,
. . ' ithrnt riu on record for Montnnni
,. fun fur tenlH Quarantine r-
HlH 'vl' nln"1"" '" marcel)' an) thing,
M Njttli Tix.m feederw olmenlng with
iaM . Jre the trend of the market
toM "1th rrfi rente to their own eallle.
MH rtaily In Jum Kouth Texn uhlppvrii
,,m llh tr fin rattle nullnble for iimr
y.BuUMil oklnhnma grninierii uol et
gB r tlj tiKkem nnd fccdern held up
ftB i'Mng !.it week nnd nre firm toiliij,
VH -.J if there In to be n fwimmalile
,tm rtak In prlie thU month there nre
l,,H x elm of It et. Hnleii range from
B tl'.t t l 75 In mimt enneK.
jH Shirp nml liunbM fold MroilKir e
uM V'la; Imt wiek, and are firm toda),
nm m' '' " hlgliir fat goutu a iunr
aH r hlln r No fancy uooled In ml
tB tro off. ml toda), but iiin arc worth
i H round ft; SO Cllppul Wenteriin
,H (Idling tight) .eight pouuilN brought
wH MO H, n new high record, nnd native
(B iprlng linilic. mt ilium claim, Mold at
,H lltSj T.xa wtthern of iiecond grade
,m tO'JKlu s SO, iholce oneit worth
B II 75 or more, Arlxouii clipped )eur
,M ti inlay nt .10, elgh(yelght
,M l unih nvtrngf, Angorn killing goalu
tM t- IS75 to 16.35 toduy, hlgheiit range
m a rr nl, Angorn brunhurM IS. 10 to
11 116, Mexican bruHhem 14.00 to
iH & 0t inken mouth imnnli'it to kill
iH 'fJt 13 00 lleitlpln are nine thoun
,B C'J I !r but the NUpply for u week
,H "' fcls.. n u Mg Hhortage from reieiil
B Otlll IIIMIUKI) IIAMIK TO
H III. T CIIICAtJO t'ONVr.NI ION
H T
H
m IIICAIIO, Muy S3. Indlcif
pB l! 1 1 nre that tho republican nn
thnjl tonxentloii of 1K10 will bo
J t cm if the noWcKt nnd the mot
M '! King of th imrtj Willi nix.
U n tundldiiteH ror preiildent In
M the ff.lii nnd with tho remit In
B '! It until the limt ballot lum
BSj Ittn taken, there In likely to bo
t an iimmtmi amount or noUc and
J rntlnislumn every day the con-
- tiliiin U In neiMlnn.
I'rdl 1'phnm, chairman of the
romnilttee on nrraugementK, wim
luf irmed today that plaim have
tun mnilo to bring more than 11
li--iilrf.t bamU and fifty glee
n,R' mnrthliiK clulm to Chli-ngo
C -ring the convention wctk, Kv-
'r- titalo which linn n favorite
' m camlldnto for prenlitrnt will
J I Dug from flvu to ten bauiU with
1 iiiimerubte marching cIiiIm nnd
tm .T 1 (lub.
Tin demnnd for convention
W f lutK inntlniicB to IncreiiHe To
K 1 r UH)n tlvkntM for the con-
B J viiition were iiioled at two linn-
r. I nml fifty dollar eiich
H.rgeunt ut ArniM William I'
. nn toduy began tho appoint-
Runt of hi nineteen hundred
H a istantH. which Inohido fifteen
hiimlred moilKliint nergeanl nt
M nrma. mm hundred doorkeeper,
j (.ne hundred tuhera, one bund-
J r. nieHHonger nnd one hundred
V I3KIH.
9A Uu lum received flvu thotlkiind
t AppHeatlonN for tho potltlon,
J ' hlcli will ho filled from tho r.c- 4
H muinendntlon mado by mem-
B J ltr or tho repulillniii national
( rommlttee.
Notu-ea or contct rrom the
(Uth, Heventh nnd rourtcenth
M uutrkiH or Ttxu Involving four
iU legates to tho ropuhllfon nn-
tlonrtl convention wore received
H fy Becrctnry Itoynolds. Tho
B fight !h nld to be between pro-
J grtimlvo nnd old organization
k zntlon faction.
J, t
f 4 x 4. 4
B ,,A"",!-vern Honnett, daughter or
Jir, nnd Mi. William llennott or Hun-
K "'de, .was taken to Halt J.ake City
tni morning by her father. Bhe will
V " operated upon for appcndlcltl.
-- WON'T FIGHT. WONT THEY?
' 9' 'ifl3 Ib1, f Ml S
I ZWA til ,sF 1 I
STUB TRAIN BETWEEN PRICE AND
THISTLE WILL BE PUT ON JUNE 4
The Denver nnd Rio Oninde will put out n new time curd Sun
tiny, June -Itli, trivW Improved sorvlce to Sunpete and Sevier
countio, to Price aud other Carlwn county nnd Enstern Utah
point. - Train No. 512, the Sevier Valley train, will leave Salt Lake
City a at present, but will be a solid pnaKciiKer train throuKh to
Mnryavale, instead of a mixed train south of Mnnti.
This train will arrive at MnryHvale at 4 ::15 o'clock of the after
noon, instead of (:.10 o'clock, as at present. Returning this train
will leave Marysvale at 10:.'10 of the morning, Instead of 9 o'clock,
arriving t Salt take City nt 0:15 of the evening, as at present.
There will be a stub train from Thistle to Price and return,
connecting with the Maryfivale train In both directions.' This cuts
the present time to Marysvale about two hours and gives an ad
ditional passenger train to Price and other Carbon county twIntH.
This stub train to Price ought to arrive about 12:C0 o'clock
noon under the new time enrd, bringing the regular editions of the
Salt Uke City newspaper to Price some nine hours earlier than
at present.
The Sun will publish the new time card in detail as soon as the
same is Issued.
PRICE YOUTHS QNJIKING TRIP MONDAY
The deed or 'during tin pirform
cd by Ho Hi out nn where were
eellpnul but Monday when lloh.rt
Crockett. Jr. and Vivian tlubl-r. aged
eVetllveli M-ven nnd lx )enr took
It Into their lltll" bead that the
would explore the wlldn that la) lo
tho north or Price
The oil.ig explorer, ellhel through
moilem) or gull", did not adverlM o
the world that till exploration wa In,
takn plai There wa WiiUi"
crowd or wellwlHher. reporter, high
l,row or m.) .Imltar kind uX nuU
antra Unit umiall coi.gr.gnle to w U I.
Intrepid argonaut farewell. Oh. i
No ulvo of clutr. no tooling "f tho
mnw Hire.., no he.hllng or tear nor
hjmcrlcnl weep. No .Nobody
e , n Jumped Into the tanal In the x
clumi.nl J't tvvoturd little men
itarted on their flrt Journe). Ihclr
f rt reono to the cr.ll Ihnt roomr
or ltr conte to the white man And
the) Hlnrted alone.
At 10 o'clock they vvtre oir In tho
meantime two ramllle al down to
Snner in Price Hoy that
mnJo on tho nlmcnco or the no) inai
TJ mZln from l,U ml o hair n
tho reipectlvo famllle. tso auxiii)
a MUM bo) during vacation, or
unlike notion to dine out and ver
fw rormalltle IV obMrvcd. lint
h.nfur,Tp.r tlmo nrrlwd ,ln. . o un
naine were mnnlft. nwiani in
nulrle were inndo and It wn found
?hnt the )OU..gtcr. had lat been wen
ittng out over the hill to tho north,
v .,, iiirtv wa Immediately
form S and ho ravine, gulchc..
K. cellar nd r.h r.
Htemflllcnlly enrched The ncarcn-
er wtre, nt il o'i lock, about a mile
north of the city limit nnd nearly
dlHoiuiiged One or the party tund
log on u knoll it lllllu higher thun the
Mirroundlng tountr). pled the kiddle
plodding wearll) ho.newurd. It wit
omi jell one not only ot weltome,
but or idler that burnt rrom the
throat or the remue iirt The ex
plorer were oii urrounded, grub
bid and humled ufr to their renpetllve
home, where Die) were noon rilling
their iipectlvo tilth tummlntt with
their reel under ll.elr rwpeellve r.a
nut' table. ,
Twohn mile I a long trump ror
omu lulu It, but that I tho dUtunte
covered by the bo). They got to
Kti.llworlh without mUhap, gave the
uin.p tho "onte over," liupteted the
varlou mine building and werei
gieiitly lntereled In the operation or
I the tramway that lead rrom the mine
to tho tipple. They report tho In-
I habitant nt Kenllworth a being quite
up lo tho Price itandard and ,.re
I genuinely appreciative of tho couruay
Mhovvn them. Tho return Journey wa
'commenced after they had quaffed
'n few pint of refreshing mountain
I water
Two marriage license wero lued
b) County Clerk K. H. Hondey on
Tuevday ono to KlUhu E. Kdward
of Hunn)ldo and Klliabtth'J. Mollard
I of Nelen In (Irand county, and tho
other to Joo Ilonaccl nnd llonlna
Scolio, both of Hunn)slde. Tho for-
mer eouplo wero married by Illnhop
Albert Ilryner whllo Judgo A. J Ie
tied tho knot that mado tho latter
eouplo one,
WAS IHH BLOOD
llii.l Man Willi Carting Unire I Nmiii
Subdued.
Jut ab.iiit tho tlmii the good peo
ple or Price were wending their way
homeward nnd to bed about 'J 30
o'clock lnt evening inline or them
were luirprhicd to ee nn exciting run
ning ruco bctweon tw( men turn Into
Main Mrect front lllghth The race
wa not txclllng from un nthlellc
Ntnudpolnt, n the loan ahead hnd u
lead or about fortlfivo feet on the
man that brought up tho roar, but
the mutt In the rear had n carving
Jyilfe fully ten Inche long In hi right
Wnd, y Tho lnrt wa made nt the
Carbon llottl nnd tho entrle worn
Peter Ititriiugo nnd Juan Oarcla. liar
nugo had u lead of about twenty feet
when the Mart wa made. Ho took
the m Mil lo of tho atreet where the
going wn good nnd nx ho turned Into
Klghlh Mreet h hud lnureaed hi
had to thlity feet. The pacu wa
killing until tho Hllvugnl block wa
reached and the dUtnnce bitweeu the
two aprlntfr had Int rennet! to fifteen
jard.
The rinUh wa mot ext 'Ing aud
Npciitniulur llurnago dunhed utroM
Main Ntrttt and Into tho Morn or
Vlglla I Iron. A he went through the
door he )clh-d to thona Innldo to uliut
the door and ran through the ntnre
and out ut tho back door, Prank
Vlglla, who wait willing on the coun
ter talking to Kome frlunil. eelng thnt
the rugltlve wa being followed be u
man inrrlng it huge knife, clout .1 the
door (larvlu wa determined to get
hi mini anil finally munhed the plain
gla, lie mado it thrukt with hi
knife ut Vlglla, who caught hi arm,
and an exciting ntrugglo enrnied ror
the pnelon of tho knife Prank
Vlglla' brother ramo to hi omitt
ance and finally (lartla wa dliarmed.
fleorge PraniUen came up nt till mo
ment a ml he undated In quieting the
trended man A call wu ent to
Hherirr llenr) mid he, uulalud by
I'mndHen, toled Onrclu off to Jail
No charge ha been filed ngnlnat
the mull un )et. Juat what the tall no
of the trouble wn tiinuot bo definite
ly micerlalned,
Jl'ltV LIST DHAWN I'OIt JU.VI!
THH.M or tiii: disthict couiit
The Hat of Juror druwn to aervo
at tho Kocond term of the Heventh
Judicial dlatriut court follow
i Price--II, It. McDonald, Hubert Mc
Kline, Ul II. Pace, A. W Hhlntr,
John llaiut, II. J, Turner, O. II (luy
mon. A. II. Ilunten,
Hunnjalile Prank liuretlch, Anton
Tcrtk, William W. Illankett, Alma
Pel. ron.
Helper J. If. Hatvoraon, August
I.IIUxettl, Peter Iloione, Jame Ho
lando, T, H. Warren nnd Jnme Mar
tello.
Btorr Hamuel I). Mellaril, lien
Jamlu Mangum
I Cnatlo (late J K. Know, C. K. Iloa
wlch and John I'land.
I Hcofleld Prank Urabloh nnd II, W,
Crane.
Clenr Creek Sam Woodhead.
Ilwell J, W. Uuttler und Hyrum
Hansen,
Wellington Melvln Drnper.
Winter Quarter O, P. Anderson,
BEET MEETING TO BE I
HELD AT WELLINGTON 1
Emery County Enthusiasts Will Journey There f I
Tomorrw (Saturday) to Enthuse the M
Farmers of That Locality.
It behoove the farmer nnd bind
lie men of I'nrlMin count) lo be up
and doing If the) ex pet t to keep up
with the ItniiT) count) atignr beit
enlhiiKlaat nnd do their Just propor
tion or work In the tiimiHtlgn that la
now on tor the building of n eugnr
fnelot) und then n railroad Into Min
er) tount) Advlte from our slater
ion n I to the south nre ctmllnuiill)
nulling In telling tho people of Prlte.
Wellington nnd other agricultural
toinmunltle of Citrbon tount) what
enthusiastic meeting nre being held
nt Cleveland, t'nattc Dale, Hunting
ton, Kniery nnd I". rron unit how eu
t rgetlrnlly tho people urn entering In
to tho tampnlgii for ncrenge.
Thnt n augnr fnttory I In be built
I nn estnbllahed furl, providing of
counte. thnt the requisite amount ot
utreitge I slgnetl up or contrncler
for by the farmer. The t'tnh-lihiho
Hugitr coinpRiiy I seriously toulein
plating till t ntcrprlt ut some iiolnt
to be selected by It ellln r In Itmery
tount) or Cordon county, but two
condition must be fulfilled b) the
people of both counties before till
enu lake place
Plrsl. seven thousand ntre must
bo pledged for the raising or sugar
beet nnd second the Denver und lllu
(Irutidn railroad i-ompimy must be
tonvlnted Hint till ha been done U
fore the tonslructlon of 11 road will
In gin
Tho contrail that the t'lah-lditho
Hugur tompnny make with tho licet
grower I liberal to it fault nnd set
forth that In the event thnt the augur
company shall In tho )enr 1017 con
struct unit Im kIii tho operation ()f n
factory nt some point In be selected In
tho future either In. this county or In
Hmery touiity, the grower shall In
each or tho enr 1917, 10U, nnd
1019 mow to Hiignr beet it certalh
lilimbt r or acre on land lo be aolected
by the company nml will aell hi en
tire trop to the corporation; ho wllf
be paid ror hi rop nt tho some term
that will otilaln In the )enr ineii-
tluueil nt the compniiy raetorle at
Pa) stin and Hpanlsh Pork The grow
er, howevtr, I lint to be bound b) the
contrat t iiuletw the augur company
notirie him prior to October I, 1910,
or It decision to proceed with tho
erection or it factor) , but on the
other hand tho contract I explicit In
pointing out that If the grower I no
tified on the date mentioned, he ahull
Immediately begin to prepare hi bind
ror tho tultlvatlon or beet In the
)ear 1017 nnd thnt ho will deliver the
beet grown either ut the factory or
ut the railroad, provided that hi land
I not moro than five mile distant
from either
Nothing fairer than this could be
NEW IDK
Cumpt of Ciiiiicioii mid hiundurilvlllc
to Oct New hlriicturrH.
Cameron und Htniular.lv llle aro
to have it Nchnol building Till waa
decided on Tueaduy ut a rtguhtr meet
ing or tho Carbon county board or
edlitntlon. Tho coat of each school,
however, I not to exned the sum or
rive thousand dollar Those place
have felt the want of t-oniinodlnu
quarter for school purpose nnd con
Nequently much satisfaction I being
expressed at tho board' action by
resident In the two camps
Kullmalo No, 2 of Anhltttl J. M. ill
sou, who I engaged In the erection
of a school at Htorra, amounting to
I233S.II, wn presented mid payment
wu allowed by the board. Katlmute
No 3 ror 1997 54 also waa allowed,
Miibjtit to tho presentation or vouch
er. Voucher No. I umounted to it
llttlu over eleven hundred dollar,
making the total cost to date about
twenty-rive hundred dollar
Claim or three hundred nnd fifty
dollar from tho Ogden Hchool Sup
ply company wa presented to tho
board with tho offer that threo hun
dred iionar wouiu no attepitu aa tun
pajment, if jinl.l now, Tho board re
rust d, a thl bill wn contracted by
Cnrbonvlllo und Hprlng (lien sohool
boards. The charge wa ror maps,
eharta nnd soforth furnished tho
achuola mentioned.
Principal J O-Oubler appeared be
fore tho board and naked that he bo
paid an additional aum for tuklng
ohargo or tho Junior high school,
which ho claimed waa not part of hi
duties und not Included In hi con
tract, HI reqw at wn granted All
school principal were allowed one
week extiu pity
Teachers appointed aro Dean A.
Heck, principal nt Caatlo Oate; Mis
Ijsura Itasmussen at Hiawatha; Olen
O, Allred nt Hprlng Glen, John K.
June at Wellington. Carl O. Jenicn
and Mary n. Twaddle will teach next
school )iar at Hunn)Me
expected Mini the question Hint I10W It'il
confront the Price merchant, farmer V'iVafl
nnd nil other itusse of eltlten lal '
Where wilt thl factory be built 7 isl
Also, riom width point on the right of 11
vvh) of tho Denver mid lllo Ornnde IH
do the petiple of Price whdi the new jBJ
mllroo.l to start iBBJ
Next Hatiirdn) evening ('. It. Israeli BBj
mid David H William of the beet- BJ
growers' tommlltee will hold n meet . BJB
Ing ut Wellington nt R o'clock nnd fi MM
the) will endeavor lo stir up tho en- i BH
thurbtsiii of the farmer there nnd ' M
get it large ntrenge signed lli. Hovcil H
thoiiMind lure are liteded before , Hl
(litre Is nti) thing stirring, Muslim ' H
nnd professlonul men In Hmery roup- ! BB
I), who nre not farmers, nre leasing Mm
und renting land nnd signing up In VH
order to help the good work along. PH
What are the buslne nnd piofesslon- JBVj
nl men of Prlte going to do No mat- JH
trr where the faitory I to be built, QH
the new rond must start from Prlee. lB
lllnnk form of tho ronlrnct can be kH
hud nt the bnnk. publie offices nnd '.H
bulntM bullae or the illy nnd nil 'nBVJ
who can nre urged to come forward iIbVjPJ
sign jffl
WAWWEEK jM
Pupil rrom ll Over the County r- H
(iillice l . uBH
During the pnat week graduation i BBl
week Prlro presented n very lively fH
uiipenrance Parent and teacher I ('fBBJ
nnd bo) nnd girl rrimi lllnwuthn. L flBBBl
Wellington. M.inii)l.le,j Custln Oate, ' lBBBl
Htorr und Ihdper gnttiered here lo . ifmmmmM
listen lo nndHtrllelpnte In the dlf- vVVVfl
fvrcnt programs that had bet n nf- j A9tM
ranged for both tho high school nnd i f IbBBI
the eighth grade pupils or the coun- 1 1 WBH
IV )Tlm eighth grade graduating ex- BBpB
rrclsrs were held nt the high sehool jmBM
building The prog-ram which wn M
published In The Hun on May 19th 'tTlafll
waa exceedingly well rendered nnd J BBI
the nffalr ha been voted a proiiounc- u BH
ed succes. I rBBJ
The high school graduating oxer- I ZMM
tlse. which tommeiiced with religious !!JPBH
service Inst Hominy evening, were tit- !BVPJ
tendttl by largo crowd. The hoIiogI ifBBl
wauddrred b) Dr. Oeorgo II. Ilrlm- i) BBB
hall of the llrlghnm Young Unlvera- , VH
lly nt Provo nnd thn subject or hi .iVPH
ad. Ires wa mental, moral, ph)alcnl yIBBBI
nnd spiritual blgne. Ho wu listen- ttVVVl
ed lo with appreciative attention ulBBBl
throughout. The regular graduation TtmmkmM
duy program wu curried out on SsIBBI
Tin a. lay evening at the high school, UVVaVasi
The progrum und u Mat of the grnd- llBVaPaii
nates wn publlahed In laat week' iPfBBBB
ITjaTaBBl
Tin: oi'i'iciiits waiihii, ttBBBI
HIT KI.NO HAD I'l.OW.V VYsBBI
King, tho coloreil man Of Mohrland, vBBBBI
who ha figured In all kind of scraps, Isl
ruction nnd whutnot during hi real- FBBBl
ill mo ut the coiil lamp and hi ex- FvBBBI
iiursloii to neighboring town, again f IBBBJ
gave nn exhibition of hi capabilities I ABBJ
ut Mohrland lust Hutiirdny evening. '' WBBJ
The Hun I Informed that ho engaged , BBH
In a dice game with n llusalun coal b tBBBfl
miner Had blood hud existed bo- tJBBBBl
tweeu the two men for some tlmo und Ril
tho dice game soon developed Into JH
n tutting festhul In thl oiieounler ktfVH
tho czar' subject rnme off second best PfPBBfl
with it fate well carved by it raior BJIHH
and it alight cut In the back. After ItHBBI
the fracas, o the story goe. King lvtjVH
look refuge In hi home, mid when mSBBBI
the officer, Morgan and Treloar, SliflBBB
went after him they round him silting h9VPaPJ
quietly In hi home armed with it HaBBBI
rifle They tried to iersunde him to IffiBBBB
give iii the weaiion, but thl King re- BIBBBBI
fused to do After purl) Ing for an BBBBBB
hour or so, King wild hu would go In- 9BBBB1
to another room mid change hi BBJBBI
shoe. The officer sat nnd wnlttd iBBBBBI
how long nobody relate but after NHH
u consldi ruble time King' wire np- IHPII
peared nnd salt). ''Vou'nll don't need ftJHBBl
to wnlt no longtr, icing's dono gone." IRBBBBJ
Where King went I u nostery. smMm
lilUVUS HOCK IhliAND UOAD ISBB
roit Diwnit & mo (iitANDi: HAbI
DIINVKIt. Colo, Mu) 33. Prank BbBbI
J, Husley, alstaiit genvrul mannger IHmBBI
or tho Chicago, Hock Island and Pa- BbBBBI
clflo railway, with headquartera at BBBBBI
De Molne, la., ha resigned that po- BhBBBI
sltlr.ii to become assistant general HHBB
manager or thn Colorado line of tho iBBBl
Denver and lllo arande. Vice Preal- BBBBBI
dent A. tt Hwiet mado tho appoint- BBBBBI
munt, which ha been approved by tVBBBfl
President Mudge BBBBBI
Under tho direction of Vlcu Presl- VAil
dent Hweet, Easloy will have charge SBRiBBI
of tho Colorado lines, dlsoharglnirtho HbBBB
sumo tl (tea In this state aa doe r It, HHBBBI
llockw.ii In Utah, and filling the vn- jBBBH
canoy standing since last winter, when IBBBBBI
Hockwell wau transferred to Halt lxke BBBBBB
PBBBfl
! b9bbb1
