gton
fitte
r r
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1916.
NUMBER 21.
WENTWORTH DEFEATS
MO. MILITARY ACADEMY
By Beating the Mexico Boys. W.
M. A. Gets Even Break for
Season.
Song Recital.
Miss Annie Wood Eggleston,
a Lexington soprano, and pupil
The Old Men's Club. -MISSOURI DAIRYS i Death of Mrs. Owen Gaflin. I Automobile Wreck.
The Spring meeting of the DOWN ATHLETICS I Mrs. Owen Gaffin died Fri-! An automobile party from
Old Men's Club will be held at1 !day evening at 7:40 o'clock at Boonville consisting of Mr. and
in Central College Conservatory, Concordia on Saturday, June 3 'Some Questionable Decisions by her home, 2022 Franklin street, J Mrs. J. W. Rozarth Dr. and
gave a voice recital in Murrell
Auditorium Thursday evening
1916
Four members E. D. Emer-
A great surprise was thrown that proved a most capable affair. ' son, L. D. Phillips, William A.
into the Wentworth camp Tues-jA large audience indicated the j Redd and Charles L. Simpson Dairys of Kansas City handed' ton Mo. December
uay wueii uie uaseuau team personal popularity oi me sin- nave ineu since tne last meeting, me unieucs a Dealing bun- jer maiden name was
returned from Mexico to report 'ger, and the enthusiastic recep- Three committees will report 'day in the best game seen here 'Catherine Bovles She
that it had defeated the strong ttion given her work showed memorials, as follows: this season. The figures of the ! rnarriud to Mr. Gaffin" in
Missouri unitary Academy team much musical appreciation. ' On the death of llham T. Bell, 1 story were 4-:;. The local team
8 to 6. To those who saw thej Miss Eggleston confined her son, Charles A. Graham. .played an uphill battle all the
first game here on April 19, the. 'selections strictly to songs,; On the death of Wililam T. Bell, 'way, the breaks were all with
news was almost a shock for the though her range and extremely Rev. T. M. Cobb and James C. the visitors, and bad plays by
Missouri team showed an extra- flexible voice would appear to ad- Kelly. ; Lexington and some close decis-
Lmp Aided Much in Defeat after a long illness of heart Mrs. Christopher Doerrie and
of Locals. j trouble. .'son, were wrecked Saturday
The Hix Club or the Missouri Mrc r.affm -.B un 'nitrht on tbp rnrk- rnnd p.ir nf
viuuiii tliT UVUI1 111 Villi" c - - - " - " v K vi.
17, 18G9. Itown. Just before reaching the
Iiss rock road, they passed through
was'a mud hole that had been par
this tially filled with old rails. They
city while on a visit here, July heard something break but sup-
On the death of Jabez E. Shot- ions in favor of the visitors,
well, Joseph II. Christy and : were the greatest factors in the
John C. Cobb.
ordinary line of veterans who j vantage in operatic numbers,
played the game with lots of pep. , Her program, was carefully and
In the game at Mexico, however, artistically arranged and the
the Wentworth boys showed dis- numbers served to exhibit
tinct superiority. much vocal style. One song, at once and mailed to .the secre- in their first attempt with the
The Mo. Cadets led off in the! "Little Boy Blue" was especially tary at Lexington. willow. They put two counters
first inning with two runs. They j well done, and much made of
took one more in the fourth and an apparently simple score. "A
two in the sixth. The visitors t Dream Fancy" showed good tone
counted one in the fifth and two ( work; and the Chanson Proven
more in the seventh, making the Cale was excellently sung. Miss
score at the beginning of the Eggleston's voice is a real
eighth 5 to 3 in favor of Mexico, j soprano in range and quality,
In this frame, Goff, twirling for ! lyric in style and charming in its
Mo., weakened and the locals
soaked out seven hits including
two doubles by Murphy and
Arthur K!mir- hnv ,4 V, nv A
The above should be prepared ; The City lads started off strong !t a 1,. , ' , K'
i -i i x u . a . ; u , iK. A. White, Clinton, Mo.; Three
nnffl ani tviqi orl rr Tina conYe. in thmr nrcr QTTomnr xnth thn ' '
brothers, S. II. Boyles, Lexing-
Thomas M. Cobb, Pres. jover the pan. The score remain- ' '-j . .,
Frank Bowman, Secretary. ,ed at 2-0, until Manager Stev-L L t ?y ' Loam1'
. . , . . T , Calif.; two sisters Mrs. Chessie
ens cuumeu 111 me sixui. in me
18, 1887. Mrs. Gaflin was a poking that it was the old rails,
noble Christian woman and was .they kept on. When the rock
a member of the Methodist roa(1 was cached the right front
Episcopal Church, South. j wheel went to pieces. No one
Besides her husband, she isiwas serious,y hurt, but the en
survived by one dausrhter. Mrs. tire party was considerably
Candi- eighth the Locals knotted the
freshness and flexibility.
She was assisted by Miss Mary
Republicans Nominate
dates. count, when Mackie, first man up
The Republicans met in con--lifted the pill over the left-cen-vention
at Higginsville Fri-,ter fence for a round trip. This
day and endorsed the following blow was some wallop as it
for places on the county ticket: cleared the fence about 25 feet.
Judge John S. Klinkenberg for Kansas City came back strong
in the first half of the final ses-
Williams, Kansas City and Mrs.
Harry Dunkle, Lime, Col.
The funeral service conducted
by her pastor, Rev. R. N. Allen,
was held from the home, Sun
day afternoon at 2:30 o'clock.
bruised. Leroy Slusher brought
the party to Lexington where
they spent Sunday. They were
driving a Hudson and were on
their way to Kansas City to hear
Billy Sunday.
Malone, who contributed an or-! Representative.
George. This swatting of the gan solo, and who also played the I Julius Maring for Judge East- ision by manufacturing a pair of
horse-hide brought the red and piano accompaniments with! em District. runs with a homer, a double and
white five tallies. Missouri ran sympathy and accuracy. Missj George Schawe for Judge single. The 'Athletics made a robate court last Friday, was
in one more in the eighth and I Todhunter added greatly to the 'Western District. desperate effort to win the ninth, taken to St. Joseph Tuesday
the ninth was scoreless. pleasure of three numbers with
Collins pitched a strong game
excellent violin obligatos.
The program follows:
Angel's Serenade
up to the fifth when his arm
weakened. He was replaced by
George, who allowed one more j An Irish Love Song
hit than did his predecessor and iThe Sons Luddy-Dud
the same number of runs. The Unle Boy Blue
Lexington boys reaped 19 hitsWner Twilight Comes
while the Missouri team landed J "roms"8
7. Amos and Murphy led in the Carissima
batting for Wentworth, each get
ting 3 wallops out of five trips.
Warren, Lovell and George were
credited with two clean ones
apiece.
Braga
Lang
Hadlcy
ticket, will speak at the court
United grounder to short and apparent-', house Friday night, June 2nd.,
in Kansas City sometime ago.
Joe Talbott and Butler Thomas Carmichael. who pitched a good by Charles Kinkead. Salmon is
for Sheriff. game for the home boys, was the , the "Prophet" who tried to stop
Lige Downs for Treasurer, first man up and doubled, Bailey
F. Brockman for Assessor. followed with a double down the
Dr. F. Schreiman for Coroner, third base line and the ball was
Sam Walton for Constable called foul. Bailey then hit a
Jvce . Lexington Township. - fly to center, and Carmichael
Gowrffy Judge Henry Lamm, candi- scored when the fielder dropped
Ro3,er. date for governor. Cal. Thomas the fly. Lineback hit a slow
Penn Akins, candidate for
Fool, or Knave, Which?
M. C. McFadin has recently
had two valuable Jersey heifers
killed in the wood pasture of the
Groves' farm. Both were killed
by bullets from a gun in the
Frank Salmon of Wraverly, who I hands of a fool, or criminal, or
claims to be "Prophet No. 47"jboth. However, whether it was
and was adjudged insane by the done accidently or intentionally,
the result is the same and Mr.
McFadin is the loser by $200.
He has given notice that anyone,
fool or knave, caught in this pas-
Billy Sunday's Revival Meeting iture carrying a gun or trailing a
John M. Atkinson.
John M. Atkinson, candidate
for governor on the Democratic
dog, will be prosecuted to the
limit.
Organ Cavatina
Vhd Knows
The Birth of Morn
A Dream Fancy
Fiddle and I
Line-Up:
W. M. A.
Collins p.
George p.
Lovell c.
Murphy lb.
Turner 2b.
Fulbright 3b.
Amos If.
Furr ss.
Ashurst cf.
Warren rf.
M.
M. A.
Goff
Morill
Serenade
Chanson Provencale
Miss Malone, Accompaniste
..liss locihunter, violiniste
cu4. i i T7 ri ...l l,. V,- iVsv,,, 4- v.., at. 8 nVlnrV
of Howard County, a railroad called out. Bailey died on third
'engineer, candidate for repres-;when two more of his mates
Marshall entative in congress, addressed failed to find McVey for the kind
Goodeve tne convention. of a hit to win the game.
I Hits were made freely on
Dr. B. T. Payne for Coroner, both teams and some classy
Dr. B. T. Payne of this city fielding was also seen. The con-
Gounod
Dell 'Aqua
Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Cauthen
left Saturday for Sedalia and
Clifton City, Mo., for a few days'
visit.
Dr. C. T. Ryland went to Kan-
Raymond Payne went to Malta isas City Wednesday to spend
Bend Tuesday for a visit. 'the day on professional business.
Card of Thanks.
We wish to express our aPDre-
Mayfield ciation for the kindness shown
Plosser us through the illness and death
Eyers nf
Browning flH0 for the beautiful floral offer- "g ' .
Brown in gSi
Brickfield j Owen Gaffin, Sr.
Payne - Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Eour.
announces in this issue of The In- test was anybodys game until;
telligencer his candidacy for the the last man was out.
nomination for the office of I Batteries: Kansas City, Mc
coroner, subject to the action of , Vey and Rogers ; Lexington ;
the voters at the primary, Carmichael and Shinn. j
NOTICE TO POLL TAX PAYERS.
Your 1916 Poll Tax as levied by the County Court is $3.00.
Please call at the office of Clyde Wright, Justice of the Peace
and pay the same before July 1st, 1916 and avoid paying costs.
Lexington Special Road District.
Mrs. W. B. Douglass went to ;
Independence Wednesday
a few days' visit.
Judge Richard Field returned
t u.. r. .
ti n . i i,, r i ledums udimiiaiiini.
crat, besides having every quali-j . The .u"e lhors PaTt
fication necessary to discharge n bf,ht'kl " fhe 1 ,h
the duties of this office to the SM buikhng at Odessa In-
day ana Saturday, dune z ana
n
U
w
s.
li
i -A
It
:
u
entire satisfaction of all the peo-
tiIp nf trip rnnntv. TTis nrpnara-
for ye-terday from a business thn am experien.A has gphw
trm tn St i.hik' . . . ? ...
1 him recognition amomr the men-!
: leal men of the state, and to
honor him with the office of
coroner would be further recog
nition of his ability and, in a
measure, some reward for his
efforts in giving this locality the
benefits of his study and inves
tigation. Dr. Payne is worth of
your consideration.
i f
SCRATCH YOL K HEAD AN I) WONDr.K
That is, if it is not pt-rfectly plain that it is rust and rot
that you are putting your valuable implements in the scrap
heap much faster than the use you (five them.
What's the use? Why not make up your mind to buy a
few boards the very next time you come to town, and build
sheds lor every machine on the place?
Decent care for your machines will save you many times
the price of new sheds.
Hut whatever it is that you want Lumber for, remember, if
you want the bet here's where to get it.
Let us quote you.
"The Yard that Saves and SatisGcs."
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager.
it
Ussery-Martin.
Mr. Miredith Ussery and Miss
Kathcrine A. Martin, both of
this city, were married Wednes
day at 6:30 o'clock A. M. at the
Catholic parsonage, Rev. Goorgt
B. Curry officiating. They left
'on the morning train for Kansas
City to spend their honeymoon.
3, 1916. The examination will
begin at 8:00 p. m. and close at
b :(v p. m. eacn cuy.
Order of Subjects:
Friday Morning
Geography, Language, Spelling,
Algebra.
Friday Afternoon.
Grammar, Arithmetic, Litera
ture, Reading.
Saturday Morning.
Civil Government, U. S. His
tory. Agriculture, Adv. Science,
Algebra.
Saturday Afternoon.
Physiology, Writing, Peda
gogy, Literature, Adv. History.
II. T. Thillips,
County Supt. of Schools.
Summer Specials
AN IMMENSE BARGAIN IN CIIINAWARE IN THE BIG
BARGAIN BASEMENT.
.50 Piece Dinner St, lieautUul Decorated Ware, for
$6.95
62 Piece Dinner Set, Beautiful Gold Decorated Ware, for
S9.85
AND WE GIVE (AHSOLITELY
FREE) WITH EACH
SET BOUGHT, A BEAUTIFUL GLASS
WATER SET, PITCHER AND SIX
TUMBLERS ON .METAL TRAY.
SEE
Our West Show Window fm- Disnlay.
Dock Schrader, who was carry
ing too much booze beneath the
belt, was arrested in Higgins
ville and taken before J. E. Rag
land, who assessed Schrader the
amount of $12.93. Schrader un
able to pay his fine was brought
to Lexington Wednesday by
Constable Kelly, where he will
'eks of free
receive a few
board.
. i . . t
J- t i V .
; Miss Nell Warren of 5
M ., arrived Wednesday
vi- !t - here with Mrs.
; Young.
prague,
for a
Emma
Births.
Mr. and Mrs. B. R. Young an
nounce the birth of a girl, Sat
urday, May 20, 1916.
Mr. and Mrs. Warren Sherman
announce the birth of a daught
er, Tuesday, May 23, 1916.
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Wright an
nounce the birth of a daughter,
Saturday, May 20, 1916.
Rev. R. N. Allen went to
Buckner Tuesday evening to
attend the District Conference
of the Lexington District, M. E.
Church, South.
R'.ifonl Gordon spent Sunday
in Kan:-:;. City.
VrrC
We have received a new shipment of
those beautiful "Wooltex" Pre-Shrunk
Wash Skirts, and a new shipment of
Wirthmor. and WtT.vorth Waists. In the
Ready-to-Wear Room.
You know what these are THEY AD
VERTISE THEMSELVES.
SELECT "HER" COMMENCEMENT
PRESENT HERE IN OUR STORE.
Summer Tarasols, Fans, Fancy Silk
Hose, Notions and Toilet Goods.
ti'nqfcn tfurcaifiU
