The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
ions who trade in
Leaven-worth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 21
HOME RULE INITIATIVE
A VICIOUS MEASURE
Opposed By Public Service Commissioner
Reynolds-Would Add Intolerable
Cost to Government
Chairman C. A. Reynolds of the state
Public Service Commission, considered
the most radically progressive man in
the state administration, has started a
merry war with some of the other rad
icals in the state, notably city officials
and labor union politicians in the big
cities, by coming out in the current
issue of "The Washington Voter,"
the leading state Democratic organ,
with a vigorous attack on the "Home
Rule Initiative," which is being fos
tered by radical workers. Reynolds
declares that the bill is not progressive,
but reactionary, and would destroy all
progress made to date in regulating
railroads, telephone, light and other
public service corporations. Reynold's
article concludes by saying:
"In simple language then, instead
o( having one Public Service Commis
sion in the State of Washington, this
Bill creates as many commissions as
there are counties, cities, and organized
townships within the State of Washing
ton and gives such counties, cities and
organized townships the right to super
sede the jurisdiction of the Public Ser
vice Commission if proceedings are
begun by any such county, city or or
garJ.zed township within three months
of the time proceedings are commenced
by the Public Service Commission.
"If the writers of this Bill desired
home rule for cities they could easily
have obtained that result by following
the California Service Commission law,
which makes it optional with cities to
regulate their own utilities, or to vest
such power in the Public Service Com
mission. It is to be regretted that
such measures as this should be ini
tiated, and the State of Washington
required to pay the expense of voting
upon a measure that on its face is rid
iculous. No progressive desires that
we shall have in the State of Washing
ton as many Public Service Commis
sions as we have counties, cities and
organized townships."
INTERESTING STATE ITEMS
A petrified palm, found near Chuck
anut mountain in Whatcom county, is
taken by the University of Washington
scientists as evidence that the region
was once a tropical jungle.
The cost of note paper has gone so
high that students at the University of
Washington threaten to write on both
sides of the paper, whether the in
structors like it or not.
Mayor Hi Gill, of Seattle, declares
vigorously that his present fight against
booze selling drug stores, which are
being wrecked by the local police in
the most approved Carrie Nation man
ner, is not prompted by political ambi
tion. Gill says he doesn't want to be
Governor of the state nor U, S. Senator.
He is simply enforcing the law.
Washington's five associate members
of the naval advisory board are busy
making a survey of the state, in order
to report what industries and resources
the state possesses which would be of
value to the nation in case of war.
Present manufactures and possibilities
of developing other outputs are to be
included in the report.
Forty-two members of this year's
graduating class in the school of edu
cation at the University of Washington
have been elected to teaching positions,
before the date of graduation. There
is a steady demand for graduates of
the university in the teaching field.
Library Notice
The library will close for the sum
mer the 10th of June and the library
committee is very anxious to have
every book in before closing. There
are a number of books out which are
over due and should be returned.
No books will be loaned after May
27th.
Zlbe %eavenvPortl:Tjbcbo
Soikeye Salmon in Wenatchee Lake
With the end in view of restoring
the famous Blueback or sockeye sal
mon to the Columbia river, the State
fish commission will hatch great num
bers of eggs on the Chinook river near <
the mouth of the Columbia. The;
young fish will be liberated in Lake i
Wenatchee and left to make their way ,
to the sea. It is expected they will
return to the upper Columbia to spawn.
Several years ago sockeye salmon
bound for the Fraser river were taken,
their spawn hatched and the young
fish liberated in the Samish river. They
returned to that river at maturity.
THE ICICLE RAILROAD
POSSIBILITY OE TUTURE
Railroad Builders From East Here to In-
Spect and Estimate Feasibility
of Route
The building of a railroad up the
Icicle river to the Vaneo mines on the
head of Jack creek, one of the tribu
taries of the Icicle river, mention of
which project has been made in The
Echo in the past, has materialized to
the extent of the arrival here yesterday
morning of railroad builders who will
go over the route in order to determine
the feasibility of the undertaking and
make an aproximate estimate of the pro
bable cost.
Al Van Epps, discoverer and prin
cipal owner of the group of mines on
Jack creek, mentioned above, arrived
from Seattle yesterday morning accom
panied by Mr. N. P. Nielson, from
Topeka, Kansas, and Mr. Jas. T. West
frorr Manhattan Kansas, railroad con
struction men of experience, who have
been induced by the flattering evidence
of profit in the mines at the head of
Jack creek to undertake the building
of a road to the property. The party
will leave here today to make the trip
thru the canyon on horseback to look
out a possible route for the proposed
road. After spending some time at
the mines the party will return to Se
attle by way of Cle Elum river route to
Roslyn. While there is a possibility
that the Kittitas county route may be
determined on it is not believed the
much longer route to Roslyn
will be found practicable. The min
ing property is located on the east
slope of the range but well up towards
the summit, and to build to Roslyn
will mean boring a tunnef about a mile
long thru the Wenatchee range of
the Cascades, an undertaking of con
siderable magnitude.
Peshastin
John Hansel who has lived near En
galls creek for more than thirty years,
died at the age of eighty six last Sat
urday. The body was taken to Leav
enworth for burial. John Hansel was
well known in this part of the country
as he and his aged wife who is left to
survive him have accommodated more
than one traveler with provisions and
shelter in their little log cabin. A son
Geo. Hansel is the only child in this
part of the country who also resides
near Blewelt.
Sadie Merritt, district superintendent
of the Royal Neighbors of Everett, is
here in the interest of the order and
may organize a lodge at this place.
0. H. Green who has been station
agent at this place for a number of
years has decided to ma.cc a change
and may move to Riverside Wash.
where he will act as agent. Mr.
Green's place wi!l be filled by Mr. A.
J. McFarland who has been agent at
Withrow for some time. Mr. McFar
land is a married man his wife being
in the east at present.
Mr. and Mrs Freelin owner of the
White Cross^drujj store at Wenatchee
Mrs. Mina Davenport and C. Cook
were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. J. B.
Duncan last Sunday.
Joseph Stelzig, machinist at the
roundhouse, with his wife and daughter
left Wednesday for St. Cloud Minn.
on a visit to his former home.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, May 26, 1916
ANNOUNCES CANDIDACY
STATE SENATE 13th DIST.
John B. Adams, from Leavenworth, Che
lan County, for Nomination, at
Primary Election, Sept. 12
pp^lljsll§f
'■■'■■-- .'-"^V^S..*'?" ■ :-.W *■;.-* ■■■'■ ':' '■
r *N
W&>st - '■'■■■ >Ci ir-'--
t,**""*-. lf;l \-. i- *"JV,. +■ "^ .«f F *
: / m - ■-/
f X
Having decided to go before the
people of the 13th state senatorial dis
trict for the nomination of joint senator
from Chelan and Kittitas counties on
the republican ticket at the primary
election, I am taking this way of ad
vising the voters of my candidacy.
Before the primary election, September
12th, I hope to meet the voters of
every part of the district.
I have lived in the State of Wash
ington and in the Upper Wenatchee
Vailey for the past 22 years. While
interested in the telephone and elec
tric light system of Leavenworth for
the past eight years, my chief occupa
ion has been the care and develop
ment of an apple orchard near Leav
enworth. During the past year I have
had the honor of heading the Grower's
League whose work towards stabilizing
the apple industry has been generally
recognized and I have only recently
resigned my position with the League
to give my time to my private business.
This was only done after I was satis
fied that this great work was firmly es
tablished and could be carried on by
the successor named by the League.
I could not have lived in the state
for 20 odd years without acquiring some
knowledge of what the voters expect
of their representative in the state legis
lature. In this connection, it is not
improper to add that I am absolutely
free to follow my own convictions about
any legislative duty that might be im
posed on me. The one upon which
my mind is already made up, which
may be mentioned here, is economy in
every department of state and county
government. lam a firm believer in
better roads but am equally firm in the
belief that many economies can be
practiced in our road building. The
general belief that the engineering cost
has been too high in the past is well
founded.
The statewide prohibition law, hav
ing received popular approval, I would
oppose any legislation that will impair
or nullify any of its provisions so long
as it remains on the statute books.
With this brief reference to some of
the important matters that will come
before the next legislature, I submit
my candidacy to the voters of Chelan
and Kittiias counties.
Very sincerely,
J. B. Adams
HEALTH OFFICE NOTICE
"*"•• —DipMheriir —•—•-• -■•
To prevent an epidemic of diph
theria there will be no Sunday school
on May 28. Any gathering of chil
dren under the ages of 18 years is
strictly prohibited until further notice.
Dr. J. S. Jndah,
21 City Health Officer.'
A State Game Farm at Walla Walla
Thru contributions from various
county game commissions, made in
proportion to their receipt of game
funds, L. H. Darwin, state fish and
game warden, has begun the develop-:
ment of a state game farm at Walla
Walla in connection with the peniten
tiary poultry farm, the work to be done
without additional cost by prison labor.
Hungarian, Chinese and other varieties
of pheasants will be raised, and possibly
wild turkeys and ducks The output
of the farm will be distributed to coun
ties on the ratio of their contributions
to the state farm. As the state game
und will carry a balance of approx
imately 850,000 by next winter, it is
believed the coming legislature will
readily appropriate what is reeded to
cany on the farm if a successful begin
ning can be made this season. The
game fund cannot be used for this
purpose until appropriated.
AUTO ACCIDENT NEAR
PESHASTIN LASTSUNDAY
Party of Seven in Ford-Car Turned Tur
tle-Two Seriously Injured-Others
Slightly
Last Saturday evening some eight
carloads left here for Blewett to attend
a dance given in honor of a baseball
team. On the return about a half mile
east of the Wenatchee bridge in turn
ing a sharp corner a Ford car belonging
to Lou Brender, driven by his brother
Ott Brender in which were Mr. and
Mrs. Hodgins, Lew Doty, Leo Ahearn,
Taylor Yocum and Minnie Roberts,
turned upside down and threw all but
the driver clear of the machine. Bren
der was pinned under the machine
and unconscious when the machine
was lifted up. Leo Ahearn was also
unconscious and had his shoulder dis
located. Miss Roberts was slightly
scratched, Mrs. Hodgins had her hip
bruised; all the others save Mr. Hod
gins were slightly injured.
Clarence Campbell and Pat Jackson,
who were just behind the Brender car,
and others following, brought tiie in
jured to the Guy Stage home where
telephone connection with Leavenworth
was made and physicians summoned.
Drs. Hoxsey and McKeown responded
to the call and met the party limping
in about a mile east of Leavenworth.
Brender and Ahearn were taken to the
Leavenworth hospital where they re
gained consciousness, Brender not till
after the lapse of several hours. Ahearn
was able to be out Monday, but Bren
der was laid up until Wednesday, when
he had so far recovered as to be out of
the hospital.
John Brender, a cousin of Art, went
to the scene of the accident Sunday
and found that the car had skidded 70
feet before turning over, and found
some tools thrown 40 feet farther, from
which he concluded that they must
have been going at a high rate of
speed when the corner was turned.
This is confirmed by the report that
some of the drivers were racing on the
way home. The accident occurred at
one o'clock Sunday morning.
"Too Many Aunts" at the Scenic
Next Week
Tom Halbert and Cyril Nutley, two
high school boys from Wenatchee,
were here Wednesday making arrange
ments to present to a Leavenworth
audience the roaring college town farce
"Too Many Aunts." The play was
I recently given in Wenatchee to a
capacity house and was pronouonced
a decided success. The play is put
on by the High school boys and girls
of Wenatchee. Full particulars will
be given of the presentation.
I Mr. and Mrs. Fred Reeves came
'd9w»fr»m-th«»-Cbuj»slak -fagph jind^
motored to Wenatchee returning Wed
nesday and going back to the ranch,
dame rumor says he will soon abandon
the ranch and once more seek the
haunts of civilized man.
Get butter wrappers at Echo office.
PREPAREDNESS PARADE
IN SEATTLE JUNE 10TH
Will Be the Most Impressive Demonstra
tion Ever Staged in the Northwest
What promises to be the biggest
demonstration in an effort to crystallize
thot in the Northwest in supDort of
any national issue is planned for the
evening of June 10, in Seattle, when
the city will hold its "Preparedness
Parade," a vast pageant and procession
in which from 25,000 to 50,000 citi
zens are expected to take part. The
demonstration is being arranged by the
Northwest Business Men's Prepared
ness League, with the co-operation of
a great number of organizations, lodges,
commercial bodies, etc. Since the
fiist announcement of che proposed
parade, the committee in charge has
been swamped with offers and sugges
tions, and it is evident that pretty
nearly everybody in Seattle is for pre
paredness, and anxious to give patriotic
expression to the fact. The parade
is expected to work wonders in per
suading congressmen from this state
that the people are united in their de
mand for proper preparations for defense
in case of need. The Preparedness
Parade will probably be the biggest
patriotic demonstration ever witnessed
in the Northwest.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS
The regular meeting of the city
council, held Tuesday evening, was
called to order by Mayor Day and
Featherstone, Kugelman, Miller, See
ley and Snyder answered the roll call.
Bills allowed amount to 8552.69.
This included salaries of city employes
The Cascade Garage was given a
permit to install a gasoline pump and
tank in front of their place of business
on Eighth street.
A resolution was passed to vacate
a small strip of ground, 41 inches by
12 feet, at the end of the sidewalk on
Front street, in front of the Rainier
restaurant.
Mrs. D. M. Thomas has donated the
use of the building next to the forestry
office for a place to store clothing
or any other donation made to the
committee in charge of the city chari
ties. Mr. Tolbert was instructed to
have it cleaned and repaired.
A motion carried to have the band
stand painted and buy a new flag.
As the park fund is not any too large
the motion was reconsidered and the
matter put in the hands of the park
committee.
City Treasurer Woodrow's report for
April was read and showed the city's
finances in good condition.
The City Clerk was instructed to
write to Mr. Whitney and inquire what
progress in being made in the Seaman
& Quigg suit.
Four members of council, Hale, See
ley, Miller and Kugelman, were con
ducted to the intake and over a portion
of the water system by Water Commis
sioner Tolbert last Sunday. They
found it in bad condition. Wherever
the pipe is exposed and carried along
on trestles the timbers used for braces
were much too light and the heavy
snows of the past winter caused most
of them to break and throw the pipe
out of line. The casing around the
pipe was also in bad shape.
Mr. Tolbert is making the necessary
repairs and will soon have the line in
fairly good shape. As the pipe now
lies, in some cases twelve feet to fif
teen feet above the ground, it is in dan
ger from snow slides and rock slides
and will be a source of constant ex
pense to the city to keep it in repair.
Some changes will be made this sum
mer and it it is thot that a recurrence
of the troubles of the past two winters
be»prt*^t*d--.rm--~ m^. _». ._»,
Mr. and Mrs. Art Brown returned
from Seattle last Sunday after eight
days spent in the Sound metropolis,
where Mr. Brown went as delegate to
the grand lodge of the K. of P.'s.
Our Jot Printing
department It com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
Death of Wm. W. Stephens
News was received here this week by
Sara Humphries that Mr. Stephens had
died in a Seattle hospital on the 19th
inst., trom general debility. He had
been sick ever since the first of Feb
ruary, constantly growing worse, and
about two weeks ago decided to go to
a hospital in Seattle. His wife, who
was near Los Angeles, Cal, ar
rived in time to be with him before
the end came. The remains were
taken to Los Angeles for burial. Mr.
Stephens lived on a ranch near Leav
enworth for the past twelve years and
was well known here.
Delegates to Convention Leave
for Chicago June Ist
The Washington state delegation to
the Republican National Convention
will leave for Chicago June 1. In
addition to the influence of the state
convention, which gave them no in
structions, the delegates themselves
appear to be absolutely openminded
on the question of the presidential
nominee. When the delegation met
for final organizttion in Seattle last
week, the delegates and a few men
prominent in Republican organization
work, were the guests at a luncheon
given by James A. Wood, secretary of
the state committee. The delegates
talked very freely and showed an ab
sence of preference or prejueice in
everything they said. Delegate E. A.
Sims, who had been credited with a
great deal of personal work in behalf
of Senator John W. Weeks, took
occasion to make his position clear
by stating that while he, as a business
man, had been strongly attracted by
the business qualifications of Senator
Weeks, he was not in any way com
mitted to the support of the senator,
and would of course co-operate with
the other members of the delegation
in doing what seemed best for the
state and the Republican party.
Representative Will E. Humphrey
and Senator Miles Poindexter will, in
all likelihood, be left to themselves in
the contest for the Republican nomi
nation for the United States senate.
While gossip of other possible candi
dates continues, it becomes more and
more apparent that the men gossiped
about are less interested in the mat
ter than are those who do the talking.
The names of J. E. Chilberg, the Seat
tle banker and former president of the
A-Y-P exposition, Superior Judge
Robert B. Albertson, and Dr. E. A.
Bryan, former president of Pullman
college, have been heard most fre
quently, and lately a senatorial ambi
tion has been given as one of the
reasons for the excessive activity of
Mayor Hiram Gill against the demon
Rum. None of these men object to
being talked about; it is quite a com
pliment to be considered worthy of a
place in the senate. But so far as can
be seen or heard, none of them is do
ing >i will do anything to encourage
the use of his name. Those who at
tended the recent Republican state
convention and who have looked over
the field with impartial minds, no
longer anticipate the entrance of an
other candidate into the senatorial
contest.
Woman Over 70 Murdered Near
Wenatchee
A shocking and brutal murder was
committed across the river from We
natchee last Sunday afternoon. Mrs.
Erma Smith, an old homesteader living
on a claim on the first bench on Badger
mountain, was shot in her cabin with a
22-caliber rifle and beaten over the
head with a blunt instrument. Rob
bery is supposed to have been the mo
tive. No clue has been found as to
the perpetrator of the brutal crime.
A brother of the murdered woman lives
his aid.
Al Pesch, once a citizen of Leaven
worth, now a dry Joker from Tye, was
here this week lubricating the wheels
of commerce.
