EOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELLOW.
T T "1 IT IT " A
I 1 I H D I
Volume 3
Houston, Miss., May 26, 1916.
Number I
OUR MOTTO
Ti II
1 T
R
3 1 I
ill
l V M
BUILD MORE FLY TRAPS
The home-made fly trap that Dr. E. P. Wilson has
placed on the street at his drug store are the hest preven
tive of sickness yet known to public works. They cost
very little and any man may make one of his own by using
a few feet of gauze wire. While Dr. Wilson invented this
wondeiful fly swater. Bob Jamison has the patent right
and he will be g'adto demonstrate the trap to anyone who
wants to help rid the town ot flies. Over a milion and
possibly a billion flies have been caught in these two traps.
What would a dozen catch? What would be the looks of
die town if flies were few and far between? There are
cities w here it is hard to see a fly on the streets for these
traps have almost completely exterminated them. SWAT
THE FLY. PROTECT YOUR BABIES AGAINST THESE
GERM CARRYING PESTS.
HONORABLE RUSH KNOX
IS RUNNING SOME
NOTICE TO TEACHERS.
This is to call your attention to the Summer Normal
to be held at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of
Mississippi, beginning June 5th and closing July 15th.The
entire plant of this State Institution will be devoted to the
work of the Summer School, thus offering a rare opportun
ity for the teachers of our County to secure splendid
theoretical instruction and the practical application of
many of the subjects taught.
A model primary school is maintainee at that Institu
tion, in the Department of Education, This practice school
wiil be run thruont the Summer Term. The entire college
faculty and able outside help has been secured to do the
summer teaching.
I am giving below regulations of the State Board of
Examiners, prescribed under the new State law, referring
to :
t... RENEW A 1. OF LICENCES.
1. An applicant for ; he renewal oV a County or State '
License of the first or second grade expiring between April
1st and Oct 1st of any year must take not less than three,
nor more than four hours a day in a Summer School for a
term of six weeks during the year in which the license ex
pires. 2. An applicant for renewal of first or second grade
County or State License which expires in April or any
year may have sauii renewed by attending a Summer
Schooj during the year immediately preceding under the
same conditions as set forth in paragraph one.
3. One of the subjects taken by the applicant must
be in Education and one in Agriculture, Manual Training,
or Domestic Science, the industrial subjects may be omitt
ed if the applicant has ha ICoilcg? training in said subjects.
4. A license renewed under the provisions of this Act
is valid in any county in the State.
5. An actual attendance upon all lectures and classes
for twenty-five days of the six weeks is required for the
renewal of a license, time to he counted from the date of
registration.
6. Certificates of the work done includs the examina
tion grades on each subject taken must be signed by the
Director of the Summer School and by the instructors in
the different subjects.
7. A six weeks course in an approved school or col
lege covering the requirements of the State Board of Ex
aminers as indicated above will be accepted as a basis for
renewal of license.
The fee for a professional license is five dollars and
that for a . renewal lieeme is one and a half dollars.
The A. & M. College w 11 give all of this work. This
institution, representing an investment of nearly two-million
dollars, can be made of very great service to the
teachers of this County, and we sincerely hope that many
will take advantage of the unusual advantages offered by
this Summer School.
Up among the hills and valleys of Itawamba, Lee,
Monroe and Clay on the east of us, and Calhoun, Pontotoc,
Union, Tippah, Benton, Quitman and other good old coun
ties that know how to give rne !ad hand and smile a wel
come two miles, Mr. Rush l:i Wi'ere Others Are Scared To
Go has been making a canvass with VIM and Vigor as his
happy companions and wit!, the Old Reliable Ford as the
never say die basis of transportation. Hon Rush has
Duke's Mixture skinned hair and hide. Gee mo-nettie, it
is wonderful how he gets on : "among the boys" and "splan
ifies a few." He can mix among peple better than the
best bartender can mix a ghd swallow at so much per
gulp. It's the life with Hon. Rui-h for when he gets out
"among'um" it is some clas: it is the 42 centermeter big
big gun mopping up and wh -a he raises that Hello Colum
bus, how's your folks and wife and baby, gee, it's all the
merry and the goose hangs higher. Speaking of shaking
hands and in iki lg vo es Tc .' ly a i I N ri iy ard h ick num
bers Knox just rushes in a cf usa nas 'em going his way
so easy it's just like getting lh Jug joy from home. He
knows how to mix'em and h '.mi and he goes after 'em
with his heart thumping the ait you forty-leven times per
thump. He is enthusiastic over the outlook and his op
pents must look out if they expect to make a race and be
any where near tlvey grand close up. Boost for Knox
talk for Knox if you have n father, brother, sister, friendv
or friend who has a friend in any county in this district
write them. Let's put him a the first day.
ional
1
I 1 : . i-A
r ' n
JO. SLUT ir4SigL JL
Business a J 'Patriotism
A Nonpartisan Appeal to the Nation
The While House
Washint-lan. April 21, 1916
To lie 'Business Men of Amenta:
BESPLAK your cordial co-operation in the patri
otic service undertaken by the engineers and chem
ists of this counirv under the direction of the Indus
trial Preparedness Committee of the Naval Consulting
Board of the United States.
The confidential industrial inventory you are asked to
supply is intended (or the exdusivc benefit of the War and
Navy Departments and will be used in organizing the indus
trial resources for the public service in national defense.
At my request the American Society of Civil Engineers,
the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of
Electrical Engineers and the American Chemical Society are
gratuitously assisting the Naval Consulting Board in the work of
collecting this data, and I confidently ask your earnest support
in the interest of the people and government of the Uni:ed
Statei. Faithfully yours.
COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS OF THE
NAVAL CONSULTING BOARD OF THE DNITtD STATES
in (r-oprfalion will)
The American Sorirty of Civil Knfiinreri The An-fitan .Society ol Mrt hanical Kngineen
The American Inititute ol Mining Li'tiin-m 7 V Ainenaiii liistitut- o! Llrvliicni hngineeri
The Anwfiftn Chemtl Society
Engineering Sociel'.e Building 29 Wert V)iU Street, New York
IMiI
i
HOG RAISING IN THE
COTTON STATES
The series about hog raising is still pleasing a few
readers so we begiiKon another part.
FENCE THE FARM HOG TIGHT.
It pays to fence, hog tight, all the outside lines of the
farm. Then after the crops are harvested, the hogs may
be allowed to run over all the land. They will find in
every field meat making material that will he wasted un
less they pick it up.
A man with a 160 acre farm, fenced hog tight on the
outside, turned his hogs loose to run over the farm after
the crops were gathered. He weighed the hogs at the
time they were given the run of the farm and again when
when they had finished gleaning the fields. Their gain in
weight was worth $800, and every pound of the feed would
have been lost if the pigs had not gathered. At the Delta,
Mississippi Experiment Station, cow peas were planted in
the corn. Hogs were turned into the field after the corn
was gathered. They made ten dollars worth of gain from
each acre.
FEEDING FLOOR.
When hogs swallow filth, mud or dust with their feed
it injures their digestion and cuts down the returns -they
make from the feed. A hog needs to eat his feed from a
clean place every meal just as much as a man.
A feeding floor 30x40 feet, made of concrete, is large
enough to feed a car load of hogs. Give it six indie iall
one way for each ten feet in width of the !io . , put troughs,
feed hoppers and water at the highest point. All refuse
and manue will work to the lowest side and can be push
ed off every day with a shovel or wodeu pusher.
WATER SUPPLY.
Hogs need a supply of fresh, clean water, where they
can drink it as often as they become the least bit thirsty.
They thrive much better when drinking small quantities
nf.wflt" frfa,,ontiv-h.an when forced to. dft.-jQusiderabl6-
time without water and tfieiisCon3uiiic'large'arnoaijts.Uiriy
water hurts digestion and is one of the chief carriers of
disease. On most farms the returns from the feed are
greatly lessened because the hogs do not have an abund
ant supply of clean water so close to them that they will
drink often. Gains are cut down quicker by an under
supply of water than by too little feed.
A convenient way to furnish clean water is to use an
automatic hog waterer that can he attached to a barrel or
tank. These devices have small drinking pockets just
outside the barrel and when a hog drinks out of one of
these pockets, fresh water flows into it from the barrell.
Thcjbarrell may be mounted on a sled, be filled every day
and taken to any field where there are hogs. As long as
there is any water in the barrell the hogs will have a clean
drink, and each field will be as well supplied with water
as though there were good wells in it. These automatic
w aterers cost $2 or less each, and every farmer in the cot
Ion belt should have a sufficient number to supply the
needs of his hogs.
It is not safe to water hogs from a running stream, as
the stream is likely to carry disease.
The next week we will print something about the hog
bath and preparation of feed.
Adverlibement desiKnetl by the ASS-'iClATKI) ADVIOHTIHING CIA'HS OF THE
WOULD and puli'isht-d by this nt'tt!p:ii..t!i' tree.
Here is a good motto taken from "Fabric and Fiber"
a trade paper of the cotton and w!1iii manufacturing
companies. It is iinhjue. iiml tells much truth in a few
words. Paste in your scrap hook, "How lew ever think
of the thinking few and how many never think who think
they do."
They will meet at old St. Louis
'Tis a funeral dirge we sing
They will meet, but they'll not see it,
That "cocked hat" in the ring.
Commercial-Appeal.
KAISER READY TO DISCUSS ANY
GENUINE PLAN TO STOP FIGHT
BERLIN, May 24 .V.vireles3 dispatch from the U. S.
giving the substance of President Wilson's speech at Char
lette, S. C, in which he referred to the possibility of Amer
ican meditation in the war, is given the place of honor in
the morning papers. The afternoon editions return to the
subject and their oarnsflis, together with the wide inter
est shown by the German public show how important this
news is regarded here.
Though definitely stated nowhere there is little doubt
that Germany is willing to consider a tender of good office
to inaugurate peace negotiations. The former attitude in
tiia highest quarters that America had disqualified herself
as a peace mediator on account of her shipment of mu
nitions to the allies has now changed.
If President Wilson can hold out any tangible possi
bilities that ptface may result through his mediation Ger
many wiil undoubtedly he willing to consider such sugges
tions as he may oiler.
HONORS CONFERRED BY
MISSISSIPPI EDITORS
Clarksdale, Miss., May 21 Business and pleasure in
termingled in the sessions of the Miisissippi Press Asso
ciation, which opened its second day's meeting at the Elk's
Club this morning at 9 o'clock.
On the return to Clarksdale from Moon Lake the vis
itors were entertained at the shows, at the Elks Club and
with impromptu dances until a late hour.
Following the business session Thursday morning at
8 o'clock, at which time the bulk of the busi
ness is expected to he transacted, the convention will go
by auto to the Parchman state farm, where the day will
be spent in going over this institution and noting the ad
vancement being made by the state in this, its greatest
institution of its kind in the world. A barbecue will be
served on the farm and other forms of pleasure and enter
tainment provided.
The "peace strength" of the American army will be
something over 200,000, which seems a very fair bid for
respectful consideration from outsiders.
