CHARITON
COURIER
Volume XLVII
KEYTESVILLE, CHARITON COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1916
Number 17
Recurring Rain Keeps Waters
Up. Acres of Wheat Lost
Still Ilope.
For the third time since Janu-
Tary the Chariton River has over
sowed her banks, the present
Overflow being the moat disas
trousv Fortunately there was
not as large crops of wheat as us
ual put out in the bottoms but
from the Iowa line to the mouth
of the Chariton, great damage
was done to as fine prospect for
a large crop of wheat, if not de
stroyed altogether, as ever grew
on anybodys' land anywhere.
The lower part of all creeks
were overflowed and while the
flooding in both creeks and rivers
has not been so great as at for
mer times, the overflow has been
such as to cause destruction
for the third time in succession
At the present writing the
water is falling in all streams
aud much of the land which was
planted to wheat and the crop
destroyed, will be put in corn.
High School Notes
A feeling of loneliness has
come over nearly all our students
and some of the teachers, occa
sioned by the fact that all the
schools in the county have clos
ed and this one still at it.
Worst Needed Bridge
It can hardly be that a bridge
any where in the country is
worse needed than one across
the big ditch between this city
and Salisbury. For some time
it has been too short at both ends
and now its legs are undoubtedly
too short and disaster is inevita
ble if it not replaced with a new
one.
There is not a road in the coun
try more traveled than is this
highway and should the bridge
tumble in, fortudately when there
was no one crossing, it is a
"Long way to Tipperary" and
Timbuctu, from either east or
west.
It is earnestly hoped that the
County Court will not only give
the matter serious consideration
but do what appears imperative
in the matter, if disaster is to be
averted or at least, trade and
travelers alike diverted from both
Salisbury and the county seat.
Triplett
Miss Mary Wires of Pattons
burg visited relatives here the
first of the week.
Mrs. A. D. Carter of Bucklin
is visiting her sister, Mis3 Nellie
Brown who has been ill from
typhoid fever for several weeks,
Miss M. Ann Allega of Key
tesville visited Miss Frances
DemDsev the latter part of the
week.
Mioo Moll WViifo maris Vior J. C. Bowman spent a few
first annearance Mondav at days last week with his sister,
cVrwrtl cmto oVia "fnnk ilrtwn" Mrs. I. H. McKittrick, who has
with a fever. She was a visitor, been seriously ill at Salisbury.
The class in ornithology had a Mr. and Mrs. Sam Johnson of
fine demonstration by a robin Forest Green visited at the home
i, tu k.-.j ,o K:u Jof the latters mother, Mrs. u u
laoi wccft. iiiv uiiu vvao uuiiu-
ing a nest A string it intended Brwn Sunday.
to use in the construction got Miss Grace Zimmerman left
tanirled with one foot and and a Sntnrdav for her home at War
limb. The bird toppled off the renton. Mo. She will refurn to
limb and hung by the string, teach in the high school here
Discovered and efforts to gain its next fall.
perpendicular on the limb scien- Qu;te a number of people from
tmcaiiy considered, une ot tne ner0 attended "The Birth of
class, supposedly a rxy, cnmDea Nation" which was shown at
the tree and cut off the limb, chillicothe Monday and Tuesday
Robin taken to basement, treat- njghts and atBrookfieldWednes
ed to a libation and ablution and day an(j Thursday nights.
! a-j
,,Deraiea- A. D. Carter and P. C. Roberts
Daily Dotson missed school of Bucklin were Triplett visitors
last week on account of business Tuesday,
and Will Arrington part of this Mesdamea Clay Marsh, Frank
week by sickness. Fleetwood and Jim Shipp were
Prof. Cowles was in Columbia Brunswick visitors Tuesday,
the latter part of last week. Mrs. A. D. Stevens of New
Miss Marybeth Smith, a popu- J10 !? n her daugh'
lar and handsome teacher visited ter' Mrs- HendnX Newman.
the school Monday. Miss Laura Green is visiting
her mother Mrs. A. 0. Green at
Geo. Hooper went to Triplett Excelsior Springs
n i 3 i a. i 1 .1 I
oaiuraay ana nas not oeen neara Migges Grace Beuefiel,
from since. It is thot some Breid and c p, Dickinson of
young lady friends and not FllUon nre vigit;ni, at the home
homefolks are detaining him 0f j u Hooper
from his studies. Mesd'ames Elmer Klee and J.
Quite a number of students at- a. Triplett and Wm Wohlgemuth
tended commencent S. H. S. last and Martin Triplett and Cecil
week. Daniels went to Kansas City to
The graduating class desires hear Billie Sunday,
that Rev. B. G. Rudd deliver the Misses Nora and Bertha Cuddy
baccalaureate at commencement and brother J Cuddy of Keytes
and he will be requested to favor ville visited at the home of J. H.
the class by doing so. Hooper the latter part of last
Victor Williams, Soph, is mix- week
ine with the family ADidae. One Miss Courtney Jackson, a
of them will mix with his visage teacher in the high school here
wrong and first some of these or tne past four years le bat
davs and he will monkey no more urday for her home at Huntsville.
with the business and of a buz- We are very sorry Miss Jackson
zer. Victor captured an entire nas decided not to return here
family on the road to school nextxaii.
Tuesday. Mr. and Mrs. M. L. McDonald
; of Stanberry vissted at the home
Aver Voss, oldest son of Mr. of E. H. Mc Donald the first of
and Mrs. Charles Voss who for- the week
merly lived east of town, died
Sunday from the effects of an
MEMORIAL DAY
Loyd Fletcher left Tuesday for
a visit in Kansas City
Sam Hampton and Oscar Elliot
spent the first of the week
in
Before many years are past there will be no veterans of
our Civil War left alive. There will be no pathetic yet stirring
parades of feeble old men, walking to the music of fife and
drum. There will be no patriotic Memorial Day exercises at
which a soldier of the Civil War is the speaker. The Grand
Army posts will be made over to the Sons of Veterans.
It is to be hoped that Memorial Day will allways be pre
cious to the people of the country. Most earnestly is it to be
hoped that its significance shalljnever be disminished through
the sacrifice on the battlefield of another generation of Ameri
cans. But most precious of all Memorial Days should be those
operation for appendicitis at the
hospital in Oskaloosa, Iowa. , He
xoaa 13 voars nld and tha main
stay of hia parents and his sudden Kansas City'
death prostrated his mother. Mr. and Mrs. Daniels of Cen
The many friends of the family tralia are visiting at the home of
here share in their sympathy for their daughter, Mrs. E. H. Me
the stricken family.. Donald. ...
whose deeds we commemorate
still walk before our eye3, still
nd whose graves
speak to us.
we decorate
The South does not celebrate the same Memorial Day with
the North; it has its own days for paying tribute to its soldier
dead. Yet the South has no reason after the lapse of fifty
years to regret the triumph of that cause for which so many
Union soldiers perished. South and North, we are one peo
ple; our interest are mutual and common, and could only thrive
so long as we remained one nation. That Abraham Lincoln's
vision was true the people of the South are to-day willing to
concede.
What is it that we celebrate on Memorial Day? Is it not
above all else the loyalty of Americans to America a loyalty
that cemented with blood and tears the union of our people?
On the Fourth of July we celebrate the principle of loyalty.
Our remembrance for one day of the service of the dead is
valuable only if it inspires in us, the living, their spirit of de
votion. We may not be called,! as they were, to offer our lives
in order that the nation may survive. It is no timorous or un
worthy spirit that makes us pray that we may never be sub
jected to the test chat they so nobly met. When we look to
Europe and see the nations there in a life-and-death struggle
more horrible, more cruel, than any that the world has ever
known, all that we can be sure of in human nature is that its
courage i3 inextinguishable, and that the time will never come
when men will not die for wh& they believe in. There is no
difference in valor among the nations. Those who believe that
our people would be afraid to -fight in defense of their liberty
and their honor utterly misconceive, not merely our people,
but human nature.
Loyalty to America that" is the theme for this Memorial
Day as for no other since that sacred anniversary was estab
lished. There is scarcely a oay in tne year when in one way
or another we are not concerTOiTwith the question of rights
and privileges; let Memorial Day be that on which we take
special thought of our duties. If there are any among us who
have come to regard lightly the claim of the nation upon them,
or to doubt the response that American citizens would make to
a summons from their country, let them think, on this Mem
orial Day. when the old men pass and the flag goes by, what
it all means. It should be a sign to them not to be mistaken
that a nation that remembers and reveres the utmost express
ion of loyality that its sons could give is still sound at heart
and faithful to its ideals, and will tolerate no effort to disrupt
it. -Youths Campanion.
TO ALL SUBSCRIBERS.
On and after JULY 1, 1916 the subscription
price for the Chariton Courier will be S1.50 TIIE
YEAR. All who pay before that time will get the
year for $1.00, but payment to 'Some date beyond July 1,
1916 will be necessary to get the paper for the year at
that rate.
The immense increase in the price of print paper
and the hint that it may soon be hard to get at any
price within the reach of small publishers, together witli
great advance in everything else connected with print
ing, makes it imperative that either the price of the pap
er be advanced, its size cut down or half of it patent
print, neither ot which is agreeable to us, but we preter
to advance the price to adopting either of the other al
ternatives. You can readily see the advantage to you in pay
ing ahead. ,
Every subscriber six months in arrears will be cut
off our list July I.
THE EUROPEAN WAR
Alternate Successes At Verdun
Germans Capture Many
Peace Talk
Fierce fighting along a 300
mile line is still on and while the
French have recaptured some
trenches, the Germans have tak
en many prisoners. Austrians
have about surrounded the Ital
ian army and Italy is urged to
declare war on Germany because
the Kaiser visited the comman
der of the Austrian forces.
Talk of pease is freely in
dulged in both great Britian and
France and Germans indicate
that they would not be averse to
it being established if conditions
were at all favorable to their
interests.
Mexico
More troops to the border and
those in Mexico trying to get out
before being hemmed. Villa
bands are being formed in the
rear of our regiments undertak
ing to reach the border or to get
further into the country in pur
suit of the bandit most wanted,
and Carranazistas are vehement
in their demands that we get out
of Mexico altogether.
We are in excellent position
for being forced into interven
tion and that no satisfactory
realizations can be ours until we
do go in and straighten matters
out nearly all agree; then the
sooner the quicker.
Fuller To Pen
Chief deputy Gardner left
Monday afternoon for Jefferson
City with Bob Fuller to turn him
in to begin his four year sen
tence for being mixed badly in
the chicken stealing gang in the
neighborhood of Mike. Jim
Worsham went along as guard,
the court having ordered an
extra to go along.
Herring Pharmacy Assigned
Thursday of last week the
Herring Pharmacy assiged to
H. B. Richardson and G. T.
Meyer for the benefit of cred
itors. Extensive credit and slow
collections were responsible for
the failure.
Jas. Bozarth of Salisbury, as
sisted by E. W. Herring, Luther
Wright and Miss Brown began
inventory Monday.
On account of space we had
to leave out some items. '
Mrs. Claib Franklin had the
misfortune to lose 3D young
chickens Wednesday. Chiggers
got on them and to powder them
up properly she put them in a
large iron tub. On leaving them
there for a time she found on her
return that they had all been
smothered by the heat.
Rev. H. T. Guthrie will preach
at the Presbyterian church Sun
day May 28th, morning and even
ing. - All members of the church
are especially requested to be
present . '
Now and then we see a man
moving out of town with a can
of bait in his hand and two fish
poles on his shoulder, but we
never see him return. Must
come in after dark.
The parent teacher associa
tion meets in the assembly room
of the school building Thursday
night, June 1. An excellent pro
gram is being prepared. All and
especially parents are invited to
attend. A silver offering will
be taken.
Waddy Phelps, the intrepid,
non - squenchable, omnipresent
and optimistic hustler for the
Kansas City Star and his two
charming daughters, Misses
Marguerite and Elouise and
their visitor, Miss Merle Myers
of LaPlata, were visitors here
Saturday.
Photographs of the many posi
tions mowers of lawns take
would make good screen stuff.
On of the fattest men in town
has the largest lawn in town and
shoves a mower more gracefully
than any one else whom we have
witnessed.
Chas. P. Thrash was reminded
Wednesday by receipt of a con
gratulatory letter from his daugh
ter Miss Lula, that he was that
day 61 years old. He neither
looks nor feels past three scores
and may, like Rockefellow, take
to golf in 25 or 30 years more
when he gets tired of active life.
Wakefield Mar tin dale died
Wednesday at the County Infir
mary aged 79 years and was
taken to his old home at Sumner
Thursday afternoon for burial.
The old man entered the infirm'
ary about three montti3 ago a
victim of renal disease and aged
as he was, there was no hope for
his recovery. His step son,
Wake Loveless looked after the
interment of the old man, Mr,
Thome of theThorne & Son firm
of Sumner coming for the re
mains and attending to funeral
arrangements.
Salisbury Scribblings
Prof. Claude Duff, teacher at
Kirksville Normal is home for
his vacation.
Homer Bowman of Texas i3
here to see his sister whose ill
ness last week was critical, but
who is now on the road to recov
ery. Henry Streigel, who i3 at a
Moberly Hospital is reported im
proving from an attack of blood
poison.
Y. C Blakey, octogenarian, and
pioneer citizen of Chariton coun
ty, died at his home in Shannon
dale Wednesday morning, after a
brief illness of old age and com
plications as a result thereof.
For many years deceased lived
on his farm south of town, but
becoming too feeble to continue
agricultural pursuit, he moved
to this place where he made his
home until the first of last March
when he moved to Shannondale
to be near his children. He was
a splendid man, full of faith and
good works, a life time member
of the Christian church, a good
husband and kind, indulgent
father. He leaves a wife, one
son and three daughters with a
great host of friends. Funeral
services will be conducted from
the church at Shannondale, by
Eld. J. M. Ramsey, Thursday at
2 o'clock p. m.
Mrs. J. B. Parks, whose ser
ious illness we mentioned last
week passed the crisis and is
slowly recovering, to the great
delight of all her friend?.
Mrs. C. C. Hammond of Mexi
co was here for a week end visit,
mixed with business.
The two story wood building
in the rear of the store of Billy
Potts, on West Broadway, the
last of the old land marks, is be
ing dismounted and will be con
verted into a one story shop and
ware house. When we came here
36 years ago, both sides of broad
way were lined with wooden
rows, but this is the last, and
with it goes many old time
memories.
Mrs. Ida Branham and her sis
ter, Mrs. Sommer ville of Colum
bia made a week end visit here
since our last returning on Mon
day. Eli Shire and daughter, Miss
Ruth of Lincoln, Nebr., were
here the first of the week on a
visit.
Elmer Powell and family left
for Denver Tuesday to join Mrs.
owell, already there, where
they will make their future
home.
J. Kelly Pool, candidate for
Sec. of State, wa3 here Monday
in the interest of his candicacy.
He looks like a winner.
Noah Anderson, colored, aged
77, a barber of this place, but of
late years an inmate of the
soldiers home at Leavonworth,
died here this week of old age
and a complication of diseases,
incident thereto. Noah was a
poineer barber here and was the
last colored barber to shave
white people, a common custom
many years ago, but now obsolete.
Dr. H. C. Sweeney has return
ed from Kansas City where he
has been attending a dental col
lege and will spend at least a
part of his vacation at home.
Jim Reed, son of Ollie Reed,
colored, aged 23, died here the
latter part of the week and re
mains were interred in the City
cemetery. For some years de
ceased was a victim of lung
trouble, and gradually declined
until death claimed him. He
was a good average boy and his
early demise is regretted.
Balance of these items next
week.
