o< < T\TUL < /f^
j"" nrriM y (
I ' c m\\ Sr/ joi / a X \ J r 7yJv//j / A,V~ / i
LEVENTH VKAK. No. 4!)
AND
DEDICATION
OF THE
IRRI6AIIOH PBBJECT i
v
Oro vie. Wash
WEDNESDAY
June?, 1916
I’roorani includes addresses )»y itnuninent men of (lie
slalt* id’ Washington and oT the Northwest.
00V. ERNEST LISTER
Mayor Hi C. Gill, Seattle
Dr. E. O. Holland, Pres. W. S. C.
Hon. Geo. A. Lee, Seattle
SKlirr SKKINd SI 1)10 TKII* VIA TKALN through the
scenic Siniilkanieen {forge to the source of the water siip
|i!y of the irrigation project, the route paralleling the
large flumes and spillways running with water.
Moving Pictures
will he taken on the trip as well as featuring other events.
Delegations from Spokane, Seattle, Everett, Belling
ham. Okanogan and Wenatchee ('handlers of Commerce
and Commercial Clubs will participate in (he ceremonies.
Formal Auto Procession Viewing Usoyoos Lake en
ronte to a point overlooking the valley and project, at
which place will be held the
Official Dedicatory Exercises
—OF—
THE WEST OKANOGAN VALEEV IRRIGATION
DISTRICT
Participating in these ceremonies there will be—
Ralph Budd, assistant to lint president, (!. X. Ry. Ed.
Leedy, General Immigration Agent, G. X. Ry. Judge F.
V. Brown, Attorney, G. X. Ry. F. W. Graham, Western
Industrial Agent, (». X'. Ry.
Goo. I. Cole, E. Trnax, iM. K. Brown, directors; E. Risto
secretary, 1). C. Money, district engineer and J. C. Stev
ens. engineer in charge of the Irrigation Project.
R, T. Iloffmark, D. 'l'. Chamberlain, representing A.
Guthrie & Co., the contractors.
Come to Oroville and spend the day willi ns and take
home with you a realization of what the future has in
store as a result of the completion of the West Okanogan
Valiev Irrigation Project.
Evening Smoker at Civic League Building for visiting
delegates and all other guests.
WATCH NEXT WEEK FOR OFFICIAL PROGRAM.
OROVILLE, WABHIN 4TON. MAY 2fi, 1910.
• •AN II DRAWING PROCLAMATION'.
Registration—July 5 to July 22 (Sun
days excepted.)
J.aml drawing at Spokane -July 27.
l-and entry —September 5 to October
is.
Ueservation open to general settle
ment —October IS.
Itesldenee must be established be
fore May I, 11H7.
President Wilson's formal proclama
tion for opening to settlement the
lands of the diminished Colville Indian
reservation, was received from Wash
ington.
The proclamation complete reads as
follows;
I, Woodrow Wilson, president of Ihe
United States of America, by virtue of
the power and authority vested in me
by act of congress approved March 22,
llhhi (24 Stat. 1... SO) do hereby pre
scribe, proclaim and make known Unit
all the non-mineral, unalloted and un
reserved lands within the diminished
Colville Indian reservation, in the stale
of Washington, classified as irrigable
lands, grazing lands’, or arid lands,
shall lie disposed of under the general
provisions of the homestead laws of
the United States and of the said act
of congress, and shall bo open lo set
tlement and entry and settled upon,
occupied and entered only in the man
ner herein prescribed.
Provided, That all lands classified
as timber or mineral, all lands within
the following townships and parts of
townships shall not be disposed of un
der this proclamation.
Townships 21, 22. 22, 2 t, north, range
25 east; township 20 north, range 31
east; township 21 north, range 30 east;
north half of township 31 north, range
2<S east; townships 22 32, and 24 north,
range 2S east, 'south half and south
half of north half of township 22 north,
range 27 east; and fractional part
north and east of Lake Omache of
township 22 north, range 27 east.
1. A registration for the lands will
be conducted at the cities of Spokane,
Wenatchee, Colville, Wilbur, Republic
and Omak, Washington, beginning July
4 and ending July 22, Ullfi, Sundays ex
cepted, under the supervision of John
McPaul superintendent of the opening.
Any person qualified to make entry
under the general provisions of the
homestead law may register.
2. Any person who was honorably
discharged after at least 90 days ser
vile in the United States army, navy
or marine corps, during the civil war,
the Spanish-American war or the
Philippine insurrection, or the widow
or the minor orphan children of such
person may register either in person'
or by agent. No person shall present
more titan one application in his own
behalf and one as agent.
Each applicant for registration must
show the applicant’s name, post office
address, age, height and weight, and
must he inclosed in an envelope hear
ing no distinctive marks or any paper
other than the application. No envelope
shall contain more than one applica
tion.
o. Each applicant must himself
sign and swear to his application on
or before July 5, and not later than
July 22, 1916, at Spokane, Wenatchee
Colville, Wilbur, Republic or Omak,
Washington, before a notary public
designated by the superintendent. Ex
cept a soldier’s or sailor’s application
and power of attorney appointing an
agent may be signed and sworn to by
the applicant at any time after the date
hereof and prior to the close of the
registration, but the agent must sign
and swear to the application during
the time, at one of the places and in
the manner herein prescribed for exe
cution of other applications. After ap
plications have been properly executed
they m.ust be delivered to the super
intendent or to some person designa
ted by him to receive them.
4. Beginning at 10 o’clock a. in. on
July 27, 1910, at the said city of Spo
kane and continuing thereafter from
day to day, Sundays excepted as long
as may be necessary, there shall be
impartially taken and selected indis
criminately from the whole number of
envelopes presented, such number
thereof as may be necessary to carry
the provisions of this proclamation in
to effect, and the application for reg
istration contained in the envelope so
selected shall, when correct in form
and execution, be numbered serially
in tlie order in which they were select
ed, beginning with number one, and the
numbers thus assigned shall fix and
control the order in which the persons
named therein may make entry of the
lands.
15. A list of the successful appli
cants, showing the number assigned to
each, will be conspicuously posted and
furnished to the press for publication
as a matter of news and a proper no
tice will bo mailed promptly to eac’i
of these applicants.
fi. Beginning at 9 o’clock a. m., on
September !>, 191(1 and continuing
thereafter on such dates as may be
lived by the secretary of the interior.
persons holding numbers assigned to
them under this proclamation will he
permitted to select and enter the tracts
they desire, as follows: A map room
will he established at such place as
shall be decided upon by the secere
tary of the interior, where numbers
assigned will he called in their num
erical order.
When ap applicant's number is call
ed, hojuust at once select the tract he
desires to enter and will lie allowed
leu days after the date of the selection
iu which to complete entry at the
proper land office.
During such period he must file a
homestead application at the land of
fice, accompanying the same with the
usual f?Mug fees and commissions, and
in addition thereto, one fifth of the ap
praised value of (he tract selected. If
the lands are in the Spokane (Wash.)
land district entry must he made at
the Spokane land office; if in the
Walenflllc, Wash., land district, entry
must be made at the Walerville hind
office.
To »|ve the expenses incident lo a
trip tort the land and a return to the
land office, he may following his se
lection,'execute his homestead appli
cation for the tract selected within the
land district and file same in the land
office, where it will he held awaiting
the payment of the fees and commis
sions aipl one-fifth appraised value of
the land, in that event the payment
must be;made within 10 days following
the data of selection.
I’uyments can he made only in cash,
by certified checks on national and
state batiks and trnsl companies, which
can be wished without cost to the gov
ernment) or by post office money or
ders made payable to the receiver of
I he land,office.
These payments may bo made in
person, through the mails or any oth
er means or agency desired, but 1 lie
applicant assumes all responsibility in
•the matter. He must see that the pay
ments reaeh the land office within 10
days allowed, and when failure occurs
in any instance where the application
has been tiled in Hie land office with
out pJViMent. as herein provided ter,
tlie application will stand rejected
without further action on Iho part of
the local land officers.
In case of declaratory statements
allowable under the-opening, the same
course may be pursued, except that I lie
tiling fees must he paid with in 10 days
following date of selection, the party
having six months after filing within
which to complete entry. Soldiers or
sailors or their widows or orphan chil
dren making homestead entry of these
lands must make payment of fees,
commissions and purchase money as is
required of other entry men.
If such proof is made all the unpaid
installments must ho paid at that time.
Where three year proof is submitted,
the entry man may make payment of
I lie unpaid installments at that time or
at any time before they become due
and final certificate will be issued, in
the absence of objection, upon such
payment being made. If any entrymau
fails to make any payment when it be
comes due, all his former payments
will be forfeited aud his entry will ho
canceled.
7. No person will be permitted to
select more than one tract, present
more than one application for entry
nor file more than one declaratory
statement in his own behalf.
8. If any person fails to select the
tract he desires to enter on the date
assigned to him for that purpose, or if
having made such selection he fails to
perfect it by making entry or filing
and payments as herein provided, or
if ho presents more than one applica
tion for registration or presents an ap
plication in any other than his true
name he will forfeit his right to make
entry or filing under this proclamation,
9. None of the lands opened to entry
under this proclamation will become
subject to settlement or entry prior to
9 a. m. October IS, 1910, except in the
manned prescribed herein: and all
persons are admonished not to make
any settlement before that time on
lands not covered by entries or filings
made by them under the proclamation.
All the said lands not then entered by
persons assigned numbers hereunder
will, at that hour, become subject to
settlement and entry under the general
provisions of the homestead laws and
the aforesaid act of congress.
• 10. The secretary of the interior
shall make and prescribe such rules
and regulations as mfly be necessary
and proper to carry the provisions of
Ibis proclamation and of the said act
of congress Into full force and effect
and is hereby authorized to prescribe
the time when and (he manner in
which lands in any or all the town
ships temporarily withdrawn from dis
posal. as herein provided, may be open
ed to settlement arid entry.
In witness whereof I have hereunto
sot my hand and caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington this
3 day of May. in the year of our Lord
one thousand nine hundred aud sixteen
and of the independence of the United
States (lie one hundred aud fortieth.
WOODROW WILSON,
My the president: ROBERT LANSING,
Secretary of State.
(omnium. iu;u i.cMimiN.
There will he a special Commercial
Club luncheon served in the library
building next Thursday, June Ist. It
is requested that all business houses
close between the hours of 12 and I
o'clock, so that everybody can turn out
a; d attend the luncheon.
LOOIt ROARS .MEETING.
There will be a public meeting of
the members of the Good Roads asso
ciations aud all interested iu better
loads, at the library building at 2 p.
iu., Saturday. Let everhody turn out
as matters of much importance will he
taken up aud considered.
MI'SM'Ali ENTERTAINMENT.
A musical entertainment will be
given in the Lyric theatre next Friday
evening by Trinity Guild, of tlie Epis
copal church, for the benefit of the
organ fund. A very interesting pro
gram will he arranged for the occas
ion. Admission, adults, 25 cents; chil
dren under 12, 25 cents.
••LANS EOiniIIEATEO.
As will lie seen by the conspicuous
advertisement on first page—where an
advertisement was never before print
ed since the paper was established
eleven years ago, and the privilege is
granted only on account of the Im
portance of the event —that Oroville is
going to entertain and amuse the
crowd of visitors expected hero on
June 7, when the opening of the Irri
gation system will he commemorated.
The order was placed after the inside
of the paper was printed, so the article
on preparedness as published on that
page lias lost its savor.
E\I*EI!IEN< EO MINING MEN.
it. It. Catching and Jesse Freeman,
of Walace, Idaho, spent Sunday in
Oroville, and while here visited and
inspected tlie O. K. mine on Kruger
mountain, and also look the oppor
tunity to look over the mineral show
ings in that neighborhood. They ex
pressed themselves as very much
pleased with the evidence of the pres
ence of minerals in this locality, and
staled that they were of the opinion
from indications that deep mining on
Kruger would result in making mines.
An opinion from such a source has
weight and should bo encouraging to
every claim holder in that neighbor
hood, for Messrs. Catching and Free
man have operated in a country where
mining has made fortunes for scores
ot people simply because mining has
been conducted on right principles. It
would he a fortunate thing for this
country if men experienced in mining
in such districts as the Coeur d'Alene
could be induced to come here, exam
ine properties and then take hold aud
develop them.
-*•»-
V STKCTiU Ul-Alt FI in:.
John Reed, of Loomis, returned Sat
urday from a sojourn of a week or
ten days at Soap Lake, where he took
the waters tor rheumatism, from
which ailment he has been a great suf
ferer for several months, in his case
the medicinal properties of the lake
water proved efficacious, and he re
turned homo feeling tine and fit. Mr.
Reed witnessed the recent wreck of a
freight train at Soap Lake, on the
Great Northern road, when property
to the value of SOO,OOO was destroyed.
There were three oil tanks in the
train. These tanks turned over, the
oil ignited, destroying the other cars.
According to Mr. Reed's account of
the catastrophe it was a spectacular
exhibition of fire works as explosion
followed explosion and the oil burned
fiercely.
DOING (<OOll WORK,
Dell Hart returned last Friday even
ing from a business trip to Seattle, lie
repents that Fred W. Graham, imrni
piation agent tor the Groat Northern
railroad, is fairly swamped with in
quiries regarding the opening of the
Colville reservation. These inquiries
come from all parts of the United
States, and would indicate that thous
ands of people would take chances in
the land drawing. Mr. Hart also states
that Mr. Graham is working constantly
to attract attention to this irrigation
district, and through his exertions a
large number of Seattle people will at
tend the opening celebrations to be
held here and at Tonasket on the 7th
and Sth of June. From a business point
of view, according to Mr. Hart’s obser
vations, Seattle does not. display any
marked activity.
( O.U.MEM EMEM' EXERCISES.
The graduating exercises of the class
of 11)10 filled the large auditorium of
the Oroville high school to capacity
last Friday evening. Not only was ev
ery seat that could be crowded into the
floor space occupied, but a fringe of
humanity slood up in tiie south end Of
the room, while a number were com
pelled to he satisfied with a foot hold
in the hull, where only occasional
glimpses of the stage could be secured
and a word now and then filtered
through the open doors. The event
proved to be a very happy, interesting
and enjoyable ( lose to a very success
ful school year. The platform was oc
cupied by the graduates, the scobol di
rectors and the teachers. There was a
goodly display of flowers, the school
colors, purple and gold, and the class
motto "Deeds, not Words,” hung above
the sliige. The following is the program
of exercises:
Quartet — Aubrey McMahan, Theodore
Johnson, l.awreuco Dallam, Harlan
Fuller
Class History— Goldie Mitchell
Paper "Farm Loans in New Zealand”
Garland Ethel
Class Prophecy .. . .Theodore Johnson
Solo Lawrence Dallam
Class Will Bernice Desmond
Class Poem Harlan Fuller
Paper— “Irrigation”— Valedictory —
Cbas, Cole
Trio — Misses Louise Studley, Ruth Mc-
Catnmon, Hermene Grleger
Address Kev. W. W. Strife
Presentation of Diplomas
E. E. Parsons
Solo —■ Miss Elizabeth Graves
The various papers prepared by the
pupils were excellent, showing much
< are In composition and close study of
the subjects treated, the class poem
by Mr. Fuller being exceptionally
clever. The musical numbers were
pleasing, especially the solo by Miss
Graves. It was the first time the young
lady has appeared in public here, and
her cultivated and delightfully musical
voice won instant recognition and ap
preciation. The address of Rev. Strlte
to the graduating class was a master
ful effort, couched in choice language,
carrying much cheer, encouragement
and admirable advice to those who had
just closed their high school career,
and are entering upon the duties and
responsibilities of man and woman
hood. Mr. Pasons presented the diplo
mas with a few well chosen words of
commendation and encouragement
both to the ( lass and the teachers. Al
together the graduating exercises
proved to bo a very enjoyable event
and one that neither the participants
nor the audience will soon forget.
In one of the class rooms spread up
on a table a large collection of flowers
and presents for the graduates, tokens
of kind regards and wishes from rela
tives and friends, and none of the class
were forgotten nor overlooked.
The graduating class of 1916 was
composed of seven pupils, two girls
and live hoys, the hoys predominating,
which is rather infrequently the case
among high school graduating classes.
They are Miss Bernice Desmond, Miss
Goldie Mitchell, Garland Ethel, Theo
dore Johnson, Charles Cole, Harlan
Fuller and Lawrence Dallam, bright
and promising young ladies and gen
tlemen, all of them making good rec
ords during the past year both in their
studies and deportment. Most of the
graduates have a desire for higher edu
cation, and several of them, if not all,
will enter some college or university
next fall. In this day and age an edu
cation is absolutely essential for suc
cess in life, and it is hoped that the
class of 1916 will be able to go through
the higher branches and In the end re
alize the ambitions they may entertain.
It is a great credit to the local school
that it has turned out so large a class
of well equipped graduates so early in
its career as an accredited high school,
and it speaks well for the efficiency
and ability of the faculty under which
these scholars have been able to at
tain that end.
comm min aiT club metimj.
The regular monthly meeting ot the
Oroville Commercial Club will take
place in (lie library building next
Thursday evening, June 1, at the usual
hour. Make a note of the date, so that
you need not put up the plea that you
forgot as an excuse for your non
appearance. Business ot importance
will come before the meeting for dis
cussion and action. Now is Die time
when a live organization can exert a
great deal of influence for the welfare
of tlie community. In unity is accom
plishment made possible. Turn out, be
there and lend your voice and aid in
furthering any movement that has for
ils object tlie betterment of the town.
Residents of Oroville should secure
extra copies of (his issue of the Ga
zette and mail to friends in order to
spread abroad tlie nows of the big
celebration (hat is to take place on the
7th of June.
$1.50 PER TEAR
