lie
Soli
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MAY 20, 1916.
NUMBER 4.
CIRCUIT COUNT MATTKKS.
Judge lltirnon It Dlpnlng of Mny
Cac nn Hie Court
Docket.
State vi. Harvey Weaver, forgery.
The ilcfemlant wn chaigcd with rais
ing n check, given hint by Joe II.
Murrnv, for JH.oO for labor, to $30.00.
lie plead guilty to the clini ko and was
Klvon three years In the pcnltentlnry.
The ciiscs of Howell Cnton anil John
Donnn vs. C. H. & Q. rnllroail, over
charges, were continued.
Willlnm Mo.lman anil Herman Tu
liach vi. Kilwnnl Lunsfnrd ntul Klmcr
West, ejectment. This null wan for
possession of lands, west of Forest
City, ami wan of n" lar land" nature.
The cause wan tried at n previous
term of court, and the Jury Rave a
verdict for the defendant. The plain
tilts were granted n new tilnl, ami the
case vn heard Wednesday of lnt
week, nnd the Jury nave n verdict for
the plaintiff.
W, It. Grove v. Great Kastcrn
Casualty Company, contract. The
plnlntllf met with a scrlou nuto no
cldent nt Mnttland, August 'JO, It'll,
nn hi foot wa ainputnted by reason
of the acclilent. He carried accident
Insurance in the company, anil the
jury Rave n verdict for the plnlntllf
In the mini of $I.H):i.
A. I Henderson v. W. H. Hard
man, appeal from J. I'. Continued.
C. W. Itook v. T. I". Filzmnurico,
appeal from J. I'. by defendant. Con
tinued by ORreement.
Consolidated DiKtrlct. No. 2. G. A.
Connway, et al v. II. C. HaUwcll.
condemnation. Time for filing bill of
exception extended.
Mnrtha llntman vs. Willi I". Vance,
nctlon for debt. Continued liy agree-
" "d!'w. Joup vi. I). I". .McDonald,
d.inini;e. Continued.
David M. Dnvcll vs. Carl Nauman,
damage. Plaintiff take t.nn-ult.
Thomnn M. Foley nnd Maty Ann
Foley v. C. It. & O. railroad, dam
age. Till wa a stilt for ilnmaRC
to plalntilf. caused by the llo.nl con
dition of 1!1.. which the plnlntllf
claimed wa caused by the tallroad
roninnnv. The enso win Riven to it
Jury. Friday last, which failed to
URiee on the Hist count, nnd n ver
dict for the defendant on the fecund
fount. First count wa for dniimRe
rUhtnlniil In It'll: econd count for
ilumaRc utnlned In ".
Stnto es rel. .1. I". Itundle v. .Sam
uel T. Thompson. J. II. Stokes, et nl,
Milt on IhiiiiI. Contlnueil on applica
tion nnd at cot of ptalutllf.
John I'. Men and Jaine Hunker vs,
Jnn.c I. IthiHle. electment. I'lniti-
tllf dismiss null, JudRinent ORnlnt
pluintlll ror cot.
.Mnrtln (riilinm v. IM Foster, con
tract. Plnlntllf hn leave to rIvo bond
for cent sixty day after mint. De
fendant hn thirty day thereafter to
tile answer.
Clint Ic A. Itoecker vs. Frank I.
Rocckcr, et ul, to set aside will. Con
tlnueil. Amiinda Goodwin v. Home Prolcc-
tlvo AMiclntlon, Insurance contract.
Suit dismissed bv p alut If,
Dr. W. C. Proud v. Andy Ferguson
suit on note. Dismissed at cot of
defendnnt.
D. II. Kanchcr v. Clnud Klllntt.uit
on note. Judgment for plalntlli by
default for $490.
John Sneer v. Home llnnk of For-
est City, ct nl, injunction. Time for
Ming bill of exception extended to
Uctoiier term.
The sheriff file hi report of rale,
Alice Herman und Myrtle Trlplctt
v. Illanche Munrlng, VlrRlnln It. Pat
tcron, et al, partition. II. T. Alklrc
named a attorney for Hoy and Vlr
irlnla It. Patterson, minor.
Home Hank of Koreat City v. Paul
and Hannah J. Klllntt, suit on note,
Judgment for nlaintilf bv default,
11 rut count for $770.00, second count
ror Sii.
W. T. Itandall v. M. A. Itundle,
appeal from J. P. by defendant. Con
tinucd by agreement.
It. C. Hatvell v. C. II. & Q. rail
road. Plalntilf asked damaRe on uc
count of the flooding of hi farm
youth of Higclow, holding that the
railroad comnanv was renonlblc.
verdict for the ru 1 1 loud company. The
piaintur nieii motion ror a new inai,
Ilcnrv M. risk vs. Mnrcna P. Mc
Culloch, ct al, quiet title. Continued
for want of service.
State ex. rel.. W. II. Alklrc. col
lector vs. Caroline VanVickle, ct al
tax suit. Continued.
I.ulu K. and Howard T, Wnmslc;
vs. Thomas and (ieo. Secrcst, et a
ciulct title. Decree as nruved for.
David II. Mlnton vs. Isabcllc anil
James P. Allen, et al, quiet title. Dc
crco as prayed for.
Samuel II. Kunkel vs. Alonzn Kvans,
ct al, partition. Order of publication
ordered.
I.nfnyctto Kunkel vs. Nnnc A. and
J, C. Slicrmun, ct al, quiet title. De
cree as prayeil for.
Alice Herman anil &iyruo iripieu
Jack
Jnck Wilson, n Motion hand lit
Fotlie. n bachelor. nReil -In jenr.
wn kllleil nbnut 0 o'clock. Tucsdny
innrnlnR. May SI, IP I (I, by being run
own, on in nn m i enr, jui iiouiw-
The ir.nn linil Men on i'it
I'orlie..
1. I. ..Ii.lit tnlilni. ti telMn.
iiik.uki, ,it- Illh mm r...... ... .. ,1 ...... il, n.
in account or mo rravy rain, mm ""j " ""t1" rM" 1
Umo7rq-3 cab. iltMiiwul rAVlCMASinG"iVlTfl-rnaCJ(LgQ-lJ
1 WLIIAM Y ATOWt"r1
i the Mirloii" Imllle front, peace ruiii"r have i lreiil.ileil more freely thmimhniit the world
u ... o t.i- Dcililte reiicwiil enciiReinent nlmn
wmmMim RBnannwrn ........ t ......... I... ..,......1 .. ...iiit.n im.iii, ai.iiiiiiii.iii. i,.ii.rji, r,',ii, , i"
4t wuipiuw. i mil nt uny t liie nee mo war iH-sui; oiimii'i him m r , . "Love, Heio
v aw Mnckeiieii I all to ! ninni: in ciuvmok iiuii' iiiri-Hn-nini. mv -. , " , V . ..., .. tlliiK nmirli. tno
m IreHiut I. .aid to liaxe renlle.l itn-iitUfiMt.Ttly. Swielary Muli.ix will maU- Il-oi..ii prole-t l Hieal llrllaln iuii n-t mall 'lwire. Pn-lde it nil n. ,irr ,,llU.r M,
rn t n a tUl't are MUrL MIII, n. I". Hlone. errennt at arm. U now b...y nrrauulna f-r llio l:epnbll.-i.. at HuVno. June 7. while fu-ldenl WIL 1n). ,,,. and th,
named'bm!; X WM Ml, .I.m bin. ... W. IHO'-H .....d-ru ....,1 !..,. S It ,y fc brother. r,erman
KII.I.KD HY MK-OMOTIVK.
Ilaicaiilaun ate Serlce.
The intlntory leadl.iR up to the a7lb
An linpoitiint Dul.
I'nder the law of Miouil, June t, wn
WidillnR Hell..
Hear the meltniv wcddlnR bell,
(iolden bell!
What a world of happlne.M their
harmony fntrtcllx!"
And so the linnnv weddinR bell
iiuir out for Mr. Charles W. (iler
and Mi Anna .May llotkln, lat Sat
urday, .May L'O, Ipifl, and summoned
a numiier or Riiel rrom far anil near
to t'.e beautiful home of the bride'
patent, near New Point, MIouri, V
lines the wiililinR ceremony that
united the lie of thee two limit
excellent younR people In the holy
bond of mntrimony. The brlilo
luitor. Itev. 1. D. I.nbert. who ofll-
riated nt the weddli.R of her father
iiml mother, thirty-one year ns. Iat
March, wa the minister on this oc
cnlim imikiiiR the tenth one of the
erond Renerntion that he hu marrlc l
heio in Holt county.
Ili; wcddltiR celemony wn tier-
formitl nn the spacious veranda In
the pieenco of tin; Invited Rliesls;
Ml 'Innn llrnRR presldinR at the
iilnno, pin) iil McDowell' "lo n Wild
llioi'i" n few strnln of LohenRrin's
weddiiiR nuirch. rlmnRinR to "Medita
tion, r.iiin ii.nl liy .ilnenct.
Durlt.R the ceo-mony, she played
i My Heart," by l.nn
pit.R step to the wed-
urine, niiemiiii ny
Inn. came thmuRli
Rroom with I.I
, a best man, en
lour, nnd the nartie
met In front of the mlnlMcr, who took
-Cecil lllcl.nr.lson, of Purest City, " f'K. S''"?r? ,TlV!!lf ,.W.i
ouitliiR" heie, )cilneiiny. I".",, .. .i. ,.ii ...
Wll-oii Itun Down II,
KiiRlne Near I'orhr am'
Kllleil.
I.nne
II ,1." , ri n .'nun ...fc ....... ...... it It, i m .. "iii't.n '- rni.ii u ,,i
, annual comnienciMi.imt eercie, weiv i the lnt ilay i.pon wl.lrli cnniliilnte Mr. Cora llurRe. of Kana painl ami most clrRantly iiri-ntiRcd
iheld nl the .Methodist Kidscopal 'iny Ille foe the pilmnrle. Swiii' f'Uy. i heio vUltli.R her many iVi..rour lut.rlieoii.
I church. .Sunday momliiR Inst. May '.'I. 'eonle have tin- mistaken notion Hint friend. The bride I the ilnuRl.ter of Mr.
1 1,., llnnnlnlll, nln nrmiill III InV ill- IIMllmnt for lllllCI' ale t IO Hilly l'.'
Ileuil bv Rev. C. I". Kllnhaiilt. of the I on Inlen-sted In thl final llliiiR day.
First F.vanRellrnl chuicli, of St. Jo-1 'eh. In many ri.e. . etermlne the
,P,)i. ticket to be nomlnntiil. nnd, In nil
White the rain of the early momlnR 'rases, determine the list finm which
broi.Rht n ctimm to the younR Rrn..ihe ticket must In; nniKiil. mull
uate and their filend. by the time. I'lates niv Inlelestid sellishlv but the
the eseivl.e weie to hoRin. the cloud n.ty nnd the people lire Intelestiil
had rolled bv. ntul tho sun enme out '" n blunder nnd it l.lRlier si use.
Iirh-htlv. nm( tl.i fare of Hi)1 elns of .
.illul'l II.IM' in en iior-e.
stnitol to leturn home, nbout six wns shltiliiR. j)r.. 1 Ttn"i Hirrrson bud n little
oVIock that mornliiR. usInR n bnnd The i ernrntliin wire tnsteru , the nrclileiit. Inst Simdnv moniltiR. Mnv
car to Ro to nnd finm hi place if .elinncel belmr profusely decointed will. ?Ii ,m, X hnve proven iiuite sell-
d.uv. When hist below l oibe. hi I "olti il pttint find fern, while, the ..... . 1.l.riillv tn her little baby rIi I.
ear wa struck by a lone eiiRlne, , bat-lf-Rrintid of the pulp t wn of lat I t ;m,.riU, m, ncrashm to ru out
whirl. Iiurleil tlie mini
I he iM.ir neer of the
I........ I.m 1,1,111 .in llwt llfiL' nnlll
..... i, i,. r. i , full ki,n. i,..it lir eil iholr finm the vnriou rhurrhi'
revers.il hi enRlne, nnd did nil In III "'! n solo. "Fallen Itoses." by Mis
power to avert the calamity. Hvi-, l.inn n Mnrker. of Dinver. Coloindo, n
..... .. . .1 .. .I..... fl...l ..r tl... a.lvl ... n.lim ( ..u
iieiiuy, Vinson inn noi near me it- " "-. Ki"m
,.!.. tnr In. inn In .. K.rurl In l-el lllf I HlOCllI llf ClL'llll I'll UTIIllUilU 'w .
ilu. eni-or to ert the car olf' the track. Iteliil III sIllRle Ille, U.ld took their
ri... inni,. r.. .i.ii.i..i Iniul Mrs. O. P. llotkln, and was born
n enr of riiiiii.il corn to Wiclilln. Knn- "' fl"';i,,l 1,1 "j1. conimunlly and I
si., la-t Tuesday. favrnb y known for her
, tunny Rood iiunlltle ol beail and
- All of our orchaiillst. owiiIiir ,, She ntti nihil the publlr school
piliel. nn- busy, between slmweis. nt v,,,v .t un, ,)rn Kraiuntril
pinyliu' their apple tire. f,m tie r, nln.nl. She I
linn. Cutinniiv also n Riniluate of tin1 Northwestern
hn. nilde.1 n new nnd luui'lsoine foiiti- 1 nlerslty. of i:viiulon. Illlnol. She
tatn bar to their equipment. Mia tauRht selnml for seveia years,
Til.. Ili...f..ti lnli.nillinn U IibvIiil' ,mt '"' c,MlW "I II"' llllllll IIMIIII
'".J i . 7f .. L luJ. '? .. x ... 'f Hie New Point school for the p.vt
erd of the "DiuiRan steel hrldRo." I
Vnke nn Intel est in public welfniv
Into itcmlty. Ul" wonl. ileionitiil with the clns l iMt'the bn.k jnnl. nnd took her baby !',, '
eiiRlne did imtleolor. blnrk nnil led. . in her nrm. und In roIiir nut. ilie .
I lie in.isir a nin.is ii.i nj n mis- tumi(., vl.r n .;tik. t, wlilcli till
illiie J nil s. Hut teiii'hlliR )ojiir
ulrii I ow tn shoot wn wolstnl III
tltn I.tilll.t Villi. 11 I'lllilil klwil lit. (IN
nnd nt'enil the ineetiiiR, n n inember. ,lUll) fri lii imcirliiR Ikiw at tin;
at the couit house, nest Monday
Don Miiitlu. our roiuti'oii nsl;-
her nnd th.' baby to the rioiiii.I. Mr. 'nt post.ittister. . nj".il seeiiiR "Tl.o
1
lie wn struck in the back. of the seats on the iii.triini. i iiteiliiir to the
bend, ciUshlnR the skull, ntul badly . June ; of "Mo y, Holy, with .His. I.oy
...ii...- mi , iin i ii,i luuii ivnrf itunKoi ill ine insiiiiioeoi.
hn.URhl to Fmbe. ntul Coroner .Miller . .'I-'"' InviH-nthm wn ollenil by l! v.
wn untitled, but no liuiuest wn found J W. C. Johnson, of the On'P'n l.vnn-
necessniy. llie Immij'
r .,t..., ..i -i i .i... l.!..i.
was then i Reii.'ni cumrii, mm ine .-.riipiuii' ivi
broiiRht to the Dawon & Mimic un- Had by l.lder Dawson, or the Uicruh
!n'.eroti. ro controlled her full n t'l
nvohi fnlHnif on her baby, ..tliei-wl.
h)' miu'lt lime Injureil tlie little one
more se'lot'sly. As It was, Mr. F.n.er
son badly brtilml her aim nnd ellxiw,
while the I nbv escnoed with a paitlnl
i!llriitlon of the left shoulder and
badly wrenched left Ice. Dr. Kvnti
wn railed ntul lenilenil the iieersrnry
innllinl nttetitlnn.
ertnklnir rooin. in Otecon. whet)1 't
nwiilt the nrti.in of telatlves, if the
rallroiul company run locale tliem.
He I raid to have been a Rood cm-
iloyee, and had Ihtii icsIiIIi.r at
Ail be about two year.
This Is the thlid uiilieiiil fatality
within the county thus fur duriiiR the
yenii
lieorsc iiiiik nn irom a iieiRin
train, between I'oitescue and Napier,
January :i.
John i'homit-on went to siren on
the track, south of Napier, Fcbruuy
(i, ami wa run over liy a train.
Carl Green Married.
WeddlnR announcement hava been
received here. announciliR tlio mar-
rlaRO of Carl D. Green to Mis Helen
Leublierse, ul tlie home or the urine
aunt, .Mr. I. .M. hearney, (:rj iiien
dalo Itnad. St. Louis county.
The bride ix the ilauRhter or tlie
late Dr. A. II. Leuhberse, who wa a
Christian rlillirli,
licv. Ivliphiirilt took Tor his text the
t Hit verse of the IMh chanter of F.o-
d'is, mid Id theme finm tlie text "in,
"Un Forward.
Mr. Kliphnrdt said in pal t:
(In fntwnid." sliould be the student'
wnteli.woiil. There will be illlllcultlc
In our pnth-wny. but let me uiri' ou
to ro forward. Ilist of nil In self-iin-provenieiit.
I urn sure that you, u
members of the rlas of HUH. will not
reRaid this tlioiiRht out of place. It
Is inn. that you havi reached a wor
thy place n Rradiuites of your spli n
did I.IrIi school. Hut you know, a I
do, that there ale still helRhts to lie
Attained. The nrqulstlnn of true
hnnwieilRe ever tend to humility.
Newton said, 'I seem to myself to he
like ii child, plckinv up n shell Into
and there nn the shore of the Rleat
orenn of truth.'
"The end of nil study I the peifi rt
Inir of the nntuie of man. The lllhle
contain the element of all Useful
SMer Meit After as Year.
II. Wntsnii left for Kntl-
sn fit). Inst Sunday, on biislne, and
nlsn to visit her sUter, Mrs. Until. On
riiesdav. Sirs. J. h. Ilesselliacli. nn-itlM-r
slstiT. iirilvnl from New York
City, briiiRii.R with her her ilauRhter,
Helen. It wn Mr, lintlr ami .Mr,
llesselbnch's first nieetl.iR in enrs.
All thlee sister had a very enlonb1o
t hue. InlkliiL' over ill III hooi nay.
11 May eveiiiiiR. Mr. Wntson, Mr.fK ,ml t ,,(.
Ilesseinncn iiimi iien;n iiinveu in ih-
roii. They intend lo him tin nooui six
w.i.iki In 1 1. Wi .t. Mis Helen likes
"the wild mid wooly West" very much.
but she failed to llnd the Imllnn niul
hulfnlo ronmliiR the pianle.
IHIU 'l. .1 1 ... , ir. ...iu . M - h . linillllll. 1, 11" l-li-lllt IIVI .l Ml. Mr.iw.
prominent St. Louis physician. Cnrl'U the fundamental text hook, which
I nn OrcRon boy, son or Mrs. Alberta
Green-Murphyi nnd has many friend
hero, who will Join with llie hentlnel
in wisiunR mm ntui in urine many
knuwleihre. Illlile student heroine
clear and nrcutato thinker. A clear
perception of the Kteat truth per-
tninlnR to the Ruvemmcnt of God, to
well wlshe for the future hunpines ( the retribution of eternity, to the
nun piospeiiiy in wii-ii juuiiu-
throuRh life toRcthrr,
t;nil I now with the VioRner l.lec
trie ManufacturinR Co., of St. Louis,
In tlio munition department.
o
vs. Illanche MunrliiR, VliRlnla It. Pat
terson, ct al,
prayed ror.
partition. Decree as
nlan of snlviitlnn. enlarize the soul
Rives it moral power, and prepate
for elllclent action. NoUiIiir else can
control the annctlte. the desires, and
the airectlnns, the propelllnR power
of the soul,
HTI,.n I n.n.it.l Mntl ..nlt nllnnllim
...IK .".i.nu. , ,nu ,,u,.. nr irU ni! torwuni in every
The mcctlnc called for Inst Satur-1 other Rood work for the Rood of nth-
day eveninR, nt the court house, wusiers. Great responsibilities rest on
not held on account of lain and bad educated younR men and younR
roads. The meeting will bo held Mon-, women, a to the Improvement of so
day cvcnlnR, May 'i'J, nt tlio court clety. It Is expected that the edu
house, at which time, a name will be cated take the lead In every benevo
selected for the club by all member lent cause. The home circle oiler an
present. Present your numes, In seal- opportunity for the doInR of Rood.
ed envelops, to . S. HoilRln, secre- "Co forward In nidlnR the Rieat
tnry, on or before 0 o'clock p. it).. Jf reforms of the day. Take an Inteiest
May -'.un. llie person presenting me in tlie well are or your country,
namo that is adopted will receive $. quaint yourself with political refoim
In case two or more persons present lteiard vourselve under the same re-
the same name that I adopted, the sponsihifity to God in the dlschuiRe of
money will bo divided. .political duties as In the dlschuiRe of
Sign up as a number of this club, duties In the church and state, Uso
and uttcml this meeting. It Is for ull the power, moral und political, you
your benefit. possess to put down tlio awful ill Ink
'trnlllc. Seen to iinnK anoui me evan
Anna C. Flcmlnir vs. Thomas Flem
ing, divorce. Dccreo for plalntilf nnd
earn nnd custody of minor child.
Ilcssle Promt vs. Hubert ProtlH, di
vorce. Decree for plalntilf. "
Geo. M. Mooro vs. Marjoric Moore,
1 divorce. Dccreo for plaintiff.
J. Ii. LeMar. Fritz Voltmcr. Carl
Wellman vs. Hig Taiklo Drainage
district, damages. Continued.
In the sale, of tho real estate of
John Cry thin, deceased, the sheriff
filed Ills report, which was disapprov
ed by the court, and tho land was or
dered re-sold.
fames D. and Blanch Brldgmon vs,
John D. Terkins, et III, quiet title. Do-
.... a nrftved for.
' Albert Huiatt vs. Carrie McDonald,
i r-pllzntlnn of tho world. This is tho
equity. Finding and dccreo for plain-'gient worK of nil. That Clnlst's
tin. t Kingdom nc advanced nnd ine uospei
It. I., and Ilurnes Greene vs. Jas. )!. proclaimed to every creature, should
Drawn, suit on contract. This was n ho vour end In life. Live as to God.
suit for commmlsslon for salo of real wlsclv. usefully, nlouslv. nnd thus live
cstnte. Jury gno verdict for plain- long In worthy deeds, that fulfill llfo'a
tiff for $150.
If you believe In thing that will
promote happiness and comfort, Join
tho club nt meeting, next Monday
night, at court house.
Any one haying old papers or
magazines to dispose of, the Ladles'
Aid society of tho M. G. church, would
bo pleased to have them. Phone the
president, Mrs. Frank Foster, or the
secretary Mrs. Clare Castle, and they
will send for them.
k&iii
gicat end. Amen!"
If you believe In good ronds, join
tho club, und attend the meeting at
the court house, next Mommy nigiu
Orvillo Wlnslow, aged about 13
years, son of tho Widow Wlnslow, of
New Point, was taken to a St. Joseph
hosnitnl. Sunday nlarht. by Dr. Kear
ney, the family physician. The young;
man Is In a very serious condition
from appendicitis, and but little hope
ere entertained ror recovery.
Hirth of u Nntiini." nt St. Joseph, hut
Miiwiiy.
Doctor Walker, or I mbes, snv
Hint Mr 1 lint Uelley presented her
husband with n line baby boy, on lnt
Mimiay. .nay .1.
Ml Kiliiti l.ukfttt hn lettitued
froei Wnrienshurtr. when' she Rrm hi
ntul. mid I now tlie possessor of u
teacher lire illploii'O
Ml llynl Peiet, of our school
lair, I still on her rmtehc.i,
ciiu'nl by n sevi'te wtenrhinR of h"i'
ankle, n rouple or week ngo.
The ins of Ml! of the Oiegon
lil'ili school will go to Mnltlanil. Mon
day evenlnv. nnd piescnt their chu
play, "MiiRilon. or lleait ( ontent
You nio InsliiK both time ami
money, If you air need Ink' wall paper,
ami nnve inn seen iiettniiigc r Mock.
He luts ii lame line, which he I elm,
lea.l's ullirll.'iis and tne tenchcr ra-
plij'uttil l. the stronger f.nie und
pi' ii .1 ni lo I'M nine llie l.riile or tlio
..mi nr r.i i el. ilee. And the Rroonil
ell, I 4i ,in Hint .. lyknow
I'hiirli
Mrs. Wll lu i
und a 'u t i.
Point. t':.iii e
essful tin-, ii.-
latc. whei a
n
in
. .nr. nnd
. . u . . e thrio
t of New
of Holt's sue
i.ile f illy up-lii-
t-i tlCXIIIIg tlio
oil f Riio.1 oil Holt counU und Pie-
vniliiiR tipini it to giie i.i it licliest
ubstance In coin, win at und oats,
which he trnusfei to thorouRh-hicd
.itoek ntul then tip the scale with
tw-iulit that tuin honest toll Into
Rold. And now that he has win. a
f.iizc moie viiiutible thiiii Rold uc may
isioct Hint, hand In linml, these two
illl go on to even ri enter ptospcrity.
I lie brlile dies wa or wi.llo
ircninlle. triminiil in hand of hand-
nilniililerv nnd lace. She wolf a
ililte tulle veil, ciiurIiI up wit'i
naime blossom und cm tied a shower
iiiuin.it of hrhle loses and lilies of
the valley. 'Hie miild of honor worn
Mnltlanil nnd vicinity was vlslte.l :) "f Georgette riepe, with clilf
by ii terrilllc rnin niul hall stnrm, t:lir:,ln tr 'i.nilngs u rose picture,
i'uesday night. Much .Iiiiiiiiro wa '."t ''' carried nn nrm boiiquit of
I'urtli III Aniilu-rar.
Mr. nml Mr. John Jackson, of For
est City, were made especially happy,
Thursday of last week. .May !H, by the
comliiR tiiRcmcr ni ineir tioiite, m
number of relatives, who rame to
greet them and enjoy witii tliem ute
fortieth unnlversnry of their wedding.
The couple lite n nappy puir, anil seem
to enjoy life a it come to them.
M. .Inrkmin wn in inr to her mar
riage Ml Anna, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. John Wullnco, early settlers In
this section of the county.
The guests present were: Mrs. i(e
tierra Cnstle and Mrs. F. S. Morgan,
of Oregon! Mrs. George Maple, Mrs.
Fred Powers, .Mrs. i-iuiik naniian nnu
laughter. Juanltn, ol .Mound my.
An e aliorate ilinner was served and
the dnv will ever bo a sweet remem
brance to Mr. and Mrs. Jackson.
Obituary Cannon.
KIDnli Cannon wus born In Ohio
November 1, IHIll, and died at tho
.Imie to fruit, garden, und the corn ' "'."line rose. Ihe groom and bwt
that had come through. nan, i ii-emuii uu-iiii, in iwihshs vuy,
The Duneiin llbinrv wo removed r". , . ,. ......
this week front tho ..Ille.. of the lati- 'IV. :VV.". V..i V" tl.
I. C. DuiiRini to the library room In . . " i". ' ,.io.. ,,. i,.., t.
our court house. Judge Harry Dun- , ...i ,, ' ' ... rVi...T.tV i f..
gnu superintended the ten.ovnl. " " ' , 'J, " ' -
.Mrs.
Point,
...rrT,K' """'. ftloml of lrs. J. C. p,.(1ple will be nt home on the
llltnil.l. wlin lin linun k,i nlnl-mliii.li-I 1 '.. e.. i ..s vn... t,..
.., : . ... .. urI1 lllllll, liuilliwrsi l.i e 1 UIIIL,
111 in n St. Joseph hospital, will he llm ,.Very one Is glad that they will
glad to learn of ber Improved con.ti- jibi.D- umongst their innny friends un I
well wishers.
H.
lion, and look for n convalescence In nl
lew ilny.
Wo do hone that every eltlien.
having a home or business house, will Good Work by Mnltlaud Pupil.
get real busy and clean up his .. Clematis Nute. the valcdlctor-
premlse. It odds so much to the up- .,, f the Multland eighth grade.
iiearanre of tlio place, besides linprov- m,e un overage of U7 for tho closing
lug the health condition. y,.nr. she was well able to write tho
IM Colhour, trouble man and class history, which was read by Kill
night oporator for tho Home Tele- King. As she ha never, during her
phone Co., here, I again on duty, eight year with the class, been tardy
after being absent a week, wrestling or uhscnt, except one day, when sho
with the mensles. Mrs. Mlnta Lynch attended the funeral of her little cou-
was operator during his absence. sin, it is hoped by her ninny ft lend
The inuny friends of Mr. and Mrs. ". wu go lliroiigu ingn scnooi
I). I.. Klplier, or Topeka, Kansas, will ku"" " "-v,i.
rcRirt to learn or mo alarming con
dition of Mrs. Nlpher, caused from
Miss Maud Fcucrbachcr was tho
a very successful and Inter-
Sunday.
i, mono
Attend-
I X'......
& I., 11,'u cuJ'ThuwIilrMw IS Janitor of our schools, and tho couple Miss
Agler, In Illicit). I liurfdu,Jln l.'' ty iM.0Vi linrc. lender of
111 lit. Ul ine nge 01 oi jeiun, i.
months nnd 18 ilnys.
In ltsri... lie was married tn laiiiinn
M. ltevnnhls. To thl union seven
children wete burn, nil nre now living
was due to might's disease.
with tlie exception of one, Carrie Dell,
who died In infancy.
Mr. Cannon was u member of tlie
Christian church. Ho hnd been
feeble for some time, nnd ins ticain
.. ... .. . In-line Alllnnrn mpnt Inir. Imt Si
Mr. Alberta lircen-Jlurpliy lin v."'? K., iinrtrnm
returned fiom St. Louis, where sho ;" ffJL L a
attended the state : meeting of county .'.'MT. uiuiu
r'rn ESVtB,E,rr . V" meeting .next Sunday will bo
..: ii ...in. i 7- iv.i ...V - cd by sister Johnson, missionary scc
visit with .her son, I-rank, .who Ib a ,..... i, .....i,.' ..11.,... MlJalnn,
V
student of tlio business college there.
I- rank returned homo with hi mother.
Arc
it. on tli
illesslng
tho
How Missions
,Vorld." Krek. 47:1-
! AIIimiiI llilu mnntlntr for It will
Tlio rnlns nro keening the leveoli,,, nnniim mwi mm. iivrniiTKii.
hullders busy to keen tho Klmscv
Short funeral services were con- from overllowlng their fnrnisj tho wa- Mi!111 iif.n i.,nna nr r.-ni.. visited
ford. Iowa, for burial. , Iter has been within six inches of going 7I?'.i,! nnsf'ul T wfth Mrs
VVV II Mi.ilvni.i-. Kntllli 111- mnl'll r.L'. nt i iivnr. mill tlmi' inn u-nl-klni snmn or, '".".1RI lt.l5 .
men li.crVnsh.L' its belch "The lovee Ucll: nn" ,''s,llcr' . ...
Is pntrolle.l nightly for fear of parties Mra. Lucllo I.anlngcr nnd children
dynamiting. Tho water from Kimsoy were hero tho first part of tho week,
and the rains is spreading over tho visiting Papa "Slg" Noland, and their
entire section, went of the Hurr Oak many friends.
district. Mrs. Sol Forney, one of tho dear
W. II. Scilvner. Satutduv morning, nt
8::0, nnd the body was taken to Hcd-
ronl .inwii, lor iiiiriai.
Tho surviving children nio: It. II.
nnd N. II. Cannon, of HcJford, Iowa;
Sirs, l.cttlo Pnrmenter, nlso of Bed
ford! J. H. Cannon, of Dos Moines,
lowns Mrs. W. M. Aglcr and Mrs.
W. D. CnrmlcliaeJ, of this city. There
oro nineteen living grandchildren
and one great-grandchild. Ncws
Jeifersonian, May 'J3.
A nice lino oC Wall paper to be
closed out at cost. Dig bargains, but
you will have to hurry as the stock is
going fast.
HENNINGEH DRUG CO.
U I. Moore, general manager of old pioneer mothers of our county,
tho Oregon Interurban Railway, had died at her home, In Mound City,
Mr. W. A. Parker, chief engineer of Tuesday, May 22. Wo liopo for an
the Grand Island Railway Co., here, obituary next week.
Sunday last, measuring all of tho Two terrific hail storms passed
bridges on our road, for tho purnoso over Skidmore and vicinity, Tuesday
of ascertaining the maximum loud night, doing great damage to fruit
they will carry, Tho A. J nicks Co., trees and other property. The rain
who have the paving .contract, desire was to sere re as to put the VUltsca
to bring a 220,000-pound asphalt ma- train service. to the bad for several
chine to our city. hours, N -
(lAHjMSWMaM mmmmmMlwrlFirWawrinHirwmmm i-'liimimhimh i h
