THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 62.
BARRE, VER3IONT, FRIDAY, 'MAY 26, 1916.
riUCE, ONE CENT.
VERMONT G O. P.
GAVE HUGHES
. ENDORSEMENT
Resolutions Adopted at State Conven
tion in Montpelier Affirmed the Pri
mary Vote and Urged the Delegates
From Vermont to Work For Him
4 With the Full Strength of the State
ITALIANS NOT
DISMAYED BY
ARMY RETREAT
OTHER RESOLUTIONS
FAVOR PREPAREDNESS
V
The Convention Was Slow, in Getting
Started Frank E. Howe of Benning
ton Was Elected ChairmanContest
Between H. J. M. Jones and G. E.
Moody for Eighth Member of Delegation
Republicans in
Btte convention at
Montpelier city hall to-day unanimously
adopted a resolution endorsing Justice
Charles E. Hughes for the Republican
presidential nomination. The resolution
was presented by Clarke C. Fitts of Brat
tlcboro, and the mention of the name of
Hughes provoked an enthusiastic demon
stration on the part of the convention,
which lasted for several minutes. Mr,
Fitts' resolution was as follows:
stayed by the outbreak of the war in
Europe. The war held up the growing
stream of imports from the low priced
labor markets of the old world. But the
war brought.. new and sterner problem
of national honor and national safety.
Have these problems been solved? They
have not. For a year and three-quarters
the United States, including the Demo
cratic party, has had before it the awful
lesson of the greatest war in the history
of the world and yet not one real step
has been taken to place this country
not on a war basis but on the only basi
The Republican state convention I on which a nation can exist in peace
of ermout endorses and affirms the with a reasonable degree of national ee
spoken word ot the Kepublican vot- cuntv.
ers of the state in favor of Charles "Here America stands to-day, not on a
E. Hughes for the presidential nom- I sound business foundation but deluded
ination. We believe that his un- by a irambler's prosperity due to the tern
blemished record, nis wtae expert- porarv demand for munitions of war
ence, his forceful character and his here America stands, in one hand a white
great intellect combine to make him feather held up toward Mexico and in the
the master hand to navigate the ship J other hand a tin sword pointed at the
or state across tne uncnariea snoais i kaiser.
which are ahead. We urge that the "The country needs a cliange of ad-
delegates elected by this convention ministration. It is the dutv of this con-
by their personal efforts and by their vention gathered hee to-day to do its
votes support mm witn me run rmrt toward bringing a change so much
strength of the state. to be desired. To do this part with a
The convention did not meet until patriot s devotion we must lay aside the
11:20 and took a recess at 12 until 1:30. jealousy and passion or the past and fHce
Five hundred and eighteen of the 611 tn mture, not merely witn a seinsn ie-
delecates were present. "The convention 8lre for P"? victory Tut with an ear
miranizpH bv wlpftinir p.I.ipntnnnt.fiov. nt determination to serve our state
5 . I i :e '-. : i i
er Frank E. Howe of Benninsrton as "Ilu unwy e.ei. u it inuivrs personal
temporary chairman and Warner R. Gra- saeritlee and a giving up of our own de
ban. of Rorkimrham ami Roniamin Wil- I 1Tf to tn wl" 01 Pty majority.
liams of Proctor as temporary secretary "We Mure had division in our councils
and assistant secretary, respectively. and . hoP the y nm7 colne wl,en
This organisation uaa later made wr. we shall not be broad enough and toler
manent. The convention had been willed nt nough to disagree when we have
to order by Stanley C. Wilson of Chelsea, J"nt difference of opinion, yet at the
rh.irir.on nf the .t. to mmntittpp. .nrl "ne time have sincerity and solf-sacri
rraver had been offered bv Rev. Stanley fit and. patriotism enough to lay aside
V. RInmfiolH of rontneHer personal pride and factional rivalry when
Mr. Howe, in takinif the chair. ad- I our beloved country is face to face with
dressed the convention as follows- humiliation and loss of prestige. Differ-
"The Republican party this year stands V muK havfi' but thp ,10ur of
on the outside lookirur in and it is a rood danger is not the time or occasion for a
tiln in Knot. often Knt e.nn in . divided party.
while. The actor who is alwlavs on the "Four years ago the Republican party
litflire foracfa bow t.hs nla P loot, frntn Split and the result IS that the COtlntrv
the pit and the gallery. ,or fmir years and the government at
"The Republican party has held the Washington have been in unskillful hands
center of the arena so continuously for n' the sh'P of "t,,te has been sailing
the past two generations that it came to eoT an(1 rWr to th r"k8 f disaster,
consider itself impregnable and secure, "r settled determination to-day
like Cwsar's wife, above suspicion. Per- Hh0,l,d to 'orPpt th" P1. except its
haps it needed the lesson of 1912 and the J,,,,r"", "d M'd for the future in unity,
vears following. Anyhow, it is for the 5no "'1 consecrated patriotism, and to
partv to profit by that lesson and to face no that duty thrs convention will now
the future chastened by its defeat and PIW',d.
prepared to resume the responsibility ne Delegates,
which the signs of the time indicate is On the resumption of the session after
to be again placed upon the Republican dinner, the delegates proceeded to the
jiarty by the voters of the United States election of delegates to the national con
on the fiftt Tuesday of next November. vention. The first seven names on the
"If the Republican party needed a les- slate went through in rapid selection. Vhe
son the country needed it more. The af- men being chosen by acclamation. They
fairs of the nation had been conducted were a follows:
o long and so successfully by the. states- Theodore X. Vail, Lyndon,
men of the Republican party that the E. R, Morse, Proctor,
country had almost forgotten that it G. H. Trouty, Newport.
could be plunged into business depres- C. M. Graves, Rpnnington.
sion and stirted on the road toward na- F. H. Babbitt, Bellows Fall,
tionsl discredit and disgrace by the mis- G. W. Bailey, Essex,
taken acts of an administration, meaning .Win T. Gushing. St. Albans.
well, but building on a foundation of the-1 For the eighth delegate. W. A. Iird
orctical rsthor than of practical service. I presented the name of H. .1. M. Jones of
The country has had upwards of three Montpelier, and H. C. Whitchill nominat
years' experience now of absolute Demo- ed 0. E. Moody of Waterbury.
rratic control of government and it is Thp eommiftee on resolutions was
enough to make the blind see, the deaf made up as follows-
hear and the lame and the crippled, as Chairman. C. if. Darlinir: Addison
well as the able-bodied, walk to the polls lritVt Willi, F. Cadv. Middleburv; Ben
and vote for a change. . ninpton. Frank C. Archibald. Manches-
"The hr.t . veranda half following the fr. rjkWnlli,t Aiender Dv.nnptt. St.
l..mocratic vi. tnry of 1012 the over- .Thn,hllrv . Fwx RirnaH iattio. Maid
throw of the protective tariff under which lonf. FrRnk1int FIbrf s jwham. St.
A.ncri a had bc-,.me the gr.-a.test andA1N,n,. nran(1 U( SfUnn w Fi(lk
ri.h.-t and t! most powerft nation on j ,., Tj jMmM Fred-rick G.
t,,e f,r .of the earth Twelve months of j FW,WOO(, Mom.il-; Orleans. Chsrle.
he l nd.rwoo.1 tariff law threw a mil- x F 0-Ro,,rke. Derhv; Orange. John
linn Amencan workmen o-,t of their r Rherbume. Randolph; RntV,nd. nr
place, and brought many thou.nd b..-, , . R Kinp,VT Rutland :. Wa.hineton.
.ne.s men and employes face to face with fy A yrnni -iHh.n,
C. C. Fitts. Prattlcboro; Windsor, Fred
erik W. Widler, Woodstock.
Claim That, Loss of Some Small Sections
of Italian Territory is Not to Bo Com
pared with Far Greater Holdings,
of Austrian Territory.
Rome, via, Paris, May 26. The retreat
of the Italians on a portion of the Tren
tino front hiia not caused any pessimism
in official circles here. It is pointed out
that the entire line of battles is 400
miles long and that there need be no sur
prise that there should be withdrawals
at some points under overwhelming pres
sure.
The fact that the Austrians are now
holding small mountainous sections of
Italian territory is considered of small
liniwrtance when compared with tirteen
fold greater territory occupied by Ital
ians in Austria.
DREW SWORDS STRANGE ACT
ONWOMEN OF NAVAL MAN
To Put Down Riot in Which Lieutenant Clarence A. Rich-
ALL SOPHOMORES
SUSPENDED AND
. THREE EXPELLED
18 Meat Shortage Pro
testants Were Wounded
ards Apparently a Sui
cide by Electricity
TO UNITE IRISH FACTIONS.
Is Purpose of Plan Agreed to by Con
tending Parties.
London, May 26. The House of Com
mons has raroly seen a demonstration
of greater unity than was displayed yes
terday afternoon when the leaders of all
factions flocked to the standard of the
prime minister in an effort to achieve a
lasting settlement of the Irish question.
1 his was the more remarkable because
of a heated and acrimonious debate it
had been predicted would follow Premier
AsqiuChs expected statement regarding
the situation and the government's pro
posals for a solution of the problem. Mr.
Asquiths speeoh took an unexpected
turn, for, instead of giving details, he
made an earnest plea for the settlement
of the Irish tending parties in Ireland
and announced that David Lloyd George
had undertaken the delicate task of
bringing the hostile factions together.
1 he premier concluded with an appeal
khat for a time all debate On the ques
tion both in the House of Commons and
outside be suspended, in view of the ad
verse effect such argument might have
on the difficult undertaking facing the
government.
The premier s speech was heard with
ntense interest bv the members, and
he had scarcely resumed his scat, when
John Redmond, Nationalist leader, ac
quiesced in the premier's request, adding
with a voice filled with emotion, his ar
dent desire for a solution of the difficut
ies of his country.
Mr. Redmond was quickly followed by
!his political arch-enemy, Sir Edward tar
son, who tendered his support to the
proposition, and by the independent Irish
leader, William O Brien, who did like
wse.
The speeches effectively obliterated
party lines for the moment and those
members who had come prepared to at
tack the srovernment fell in with the
leaders, and the question was dropped.
'DOWN WITH EMPEROR'
LED TO. AN ARREST
GRASPED WIRES IN
A POWER STATION meeting of the faculty and it is stated
Wmt President Reeves had the unanimous
Second Class Men in Norwich University
Said to Have Carried Hazing of Fresh
men Beyond Reasonable Bonds.
Northfield, May 26. Norwich universi
ty students, members of the sophomore
class, came to know of President Jra
L. Reeves' idea of discipline Thursday
afternoon when three sophomores were
dismissed and the- remaining members
of the class were suspended indefinitely
tor hazing freshmen. The decision to
act in this manner was reached at a
Frankfort-on-the-Main Was He Told Watchman He Was
Scene of Rioting of Con
siderable Intensity
a Government In-
spector
London, May 26. An Amsterdam dis
patch to the Exchange Telegraph . com
pany says mat eighteen women were
Sag Harbor, Long Island, May 26.-
support of the faculty in taking the step.
Freshmen were hazed 'by strapping, ac
cording to the evidence uncovered in an
investigation ordered by the president
Wednesday.
In the matter of receivine the 30 stu
dents who were suspended and not dis
missed, the faculty projioses to deal with
the sophomores individually and no over
tures will be received from the cJass as
a unit. Individual applications for re
instatement in the university will be con-
Lieutenant Clarence Alvm Kicnarason, Ujdered and it is stated that such appli
commander of the United States destroy- cations have been' received already. With
wounded in a fight between the police and er Fanning, wa. Instantly killed by an faculty ir, backing the president in
e I . . I thfi fttflmi na tins fjikfri nra tho mm Vpr
and
tood rioters at f ranlctort-on-the-Main l"D """ " of the freshmen, iunior and senior cla.
Wednesday night, according to a dispatch poweI company' station to-day. The When interviewed yesterday President
received at The Hague. The riot is said T1 of ttie station aays it ftPPed Reeves told a representative of The
to have Started owL t tH. f ?"B JJ Time, that the present case is the first
mo .V k. 1 J(;i. V,,. commuiea auiciue oy vaRing occasion of its kind to demand stern
" w " " w . - ..... o . n i hMvt v fharoreri U'irAI. I - . . i
dred and flftv women, when tolH there T'. 1"'. " CZa t. measures w repress on since ne accepieu
, mf f. m"h77K " ,.K lne Wiroyer jiin.nK uni uei hiii- tne presidency of the institution. "We
tZ 2v 'iTf! ! . Z! a,UTriW with the fleet in (rdine cannot afford to take any half -way meas-
the streets carrying black famine flags d was ordred to leave for Newport rM r.-t ..,,
singing hocialistic songs. L.-l KUi.. It ia noi known whv ' :. v. 5. . .'
an.- - . . i . , t -' ' r ' -- -vicourse wui dc pursucu un i u nazJiii; is
. - - - - -- . i i imiianDnr HiMnarni wh. Mpr Him lwu I ...i 11 t : . 1
.U. 0I(1,,,V, u j.j 1... .li. . -". - .. . . . wiMJiiy uistxmunueu.
..u....,.., , nn "J I"""" hnnra hefnre ulllno' time. 1 Be WaiCJl- I TL. 1 l j t.- il
and mUI.m fn.mJ ,aLi. m..i ...k! i.kl . . , . . 1 J,w jirwuiurii mtfd tTB ienncvn
... ,v.u n., ,rv vuct man ggy, tnat Kjcuaraa claimed to oe a varle of Rutland L
ent un anrl th.n inl nnort .h.ie murMll J . . . t j u!lMr,e "' u'
... ................ r srovernment inspector ana pusneu niui
carrying the pieces above their head. The aaW up the wires at once.
cuiIiltu wic u.r.i num Lieutenant Richards was 3 years 01
MOONEY WILL
SUSTAINED
Contestants Ordered to Pay
the Costs of the County
, Court Trial
MARGARET MOONE,
WAS THE DECET .T
Several Entries i divorce
Actions Anno J'ed in '
. Court T iy
and
CERVANTES KILLED
BY U. S. TROOPS
NEAR CRUCES
Villa Bandit Leader Slain Together with
Jose Bencocorn An American '
Killed and Two More
Injured.
Field Headquarters, near Namiquipa,
Mcxu, via radio to Columbus, May d.
Candelario C-ervantes, a Villa bandit
leader, has been killed by American
troops south of Cruces, and another Mex
iean, Jose Bencocorn, and an American
.lso were killed, and two Americans
were wounded.
FORMER VERMONTER KILLED.
Martin Fisher Killed in Runaway at Lex
ington, Maas.
Lexintrton, Mass., May 26. Martin
Fisher of Lexington was killed in run
away accident here yesterday. un
Mrs. Fisher be was driving to Jjncoin
when the horse became frightened and
the wagon was overturned. Mrs. Fisher
was badly injured, while her husband
suffered a fractured skull and died al
most instantly. Mr. Fisher was 40 years
of 'age and was bom in Rurke, t. He
worked in Lyndonville. Yt., on the rail
road for many years before fming to
Massachusetts, He is survived by his
mother and a brother, lrl, who made
their home with him. also a brother,
Harley Fisher, who m in the government
service in Boston, and Charles Fisher, a
railroad conductor of Lvndonville. Mr.
Fisher's body will be taken to Lyndon -
ille Mondar and interment will be made
t Fast Burke.
the women and a general fight followed,
the officers using their swords. One wom
an was arrested as she shouted: "Down
with the emperor." .'. A local paper re
ferring to the matter was ordered sus
pended for two months.
age.
BIG POWER PLANS
were
Horner of Rut
land, W. B. Gatea of Morrisville, A. R.
Kittredge of Waltham, Mass., R. C. Cun
ningham of Hyde Park, Mass., and W. L.
J'elton of Lancaster, A. H.
The three sophomores expelled were
Bernhard Waterman Jacobs of Berlin, X.
H., Leonard Hastings Xason of Aburn-
Wer Hinted at in Hearing Held in St. dale, Mass., and A. A. Ogston of Barre.
Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, May 26. A supplemen
tary hearing before the public service
commission was held at the courthouse;
yesterday afternoon on the application
HAUDREMONT WOOD
TRENCHES WON
ACK BY FRENCH of the E" borage A Lleetne to. for L hlve incIllded ,ome h paddling.
barter to do business in ermont. As R rtg of thu laplH,ninK reached Oolo-
The hazing incident which led to the
dismissal of the class occurred Tuesday
night, when five freshmen were taken
some distance from the college grounds
by sophomores and put through a se
vere course of stunts, which is reported
Part of Ground Seised Thursday by the
Germans Between That Point and
Thiaumont Farm Was Re
taken Last Night.
Paris, May 26. There has been little
change in the situation on the Verdun
front, says the official announcement is
sued by the war office this afternoon.
The artillery bombardment
about Avoeourt Wood
hill. At the latter
attack was stopped at its inception by
French curtain of fire on the right
bank of the Meuse. The French succeed
ed in recovering a part of the trenches
occupied yesterday by the Germans be
tween Haudremont wood and Thiaumont
farm.
The official communication last night
was as follows :
"On the left bank of the Meuse, the
activity of the enemy artillery increased
during the day against our positions on
hill 304.
"On the right bank, after a yiolent
previously published, this company plans
to construct an immense storage basin in
Victory and at yesterday's hearing it
ports of this happening
nel Reeves through townspeople and he
immediately ordered a rigid investigation.
The entire class claimed equal guilt in
was orou-Tht out tnaj tne company y,e gm1 the members expelled are
mui-n rw..i.., not ri ieajer. but are students who
First it plans w construct a poww wwe air(ady m probation for other of
plant at tne oam P'm fenses against tile discipline maintained
..1 nvD tort TfUl on1 Aa . I r 1
il. M wwiuaiTu rr vum wri. nuu i .1,. itnivura f v
rnJI ,lirv iiui pf-j". v. vim .... v
kilowatts of electricity.
It hoped to buy the saw mill and the
unused power below it at Last rt. Johns
DEATH AT LOWER WEBSTERVILLE.
rdment is violent bury and build a plant there that would
and Dead Man's gjve 70ft horsepower, S2. kilowatts, at
place a German , estimated cost of f 4,305.
Mrs.
M. G. Beaton Had Been in Poor
Health Eight Months.
Mrs. Annabella M. Beaton, wife of
It would also like to buy the water Murdo Beaton, died at her home in
power of the C. C. Follensby estate ' in lower Websterville this morning at 4:40
the edge of .''UtnmerviJle. go dbck up- 0 clock. Mrs. Beaton had been in 1m
stream about half a. mile for a dam and j paired health for the past eight months.
conduct the water down 10 tne present she is survived by her husband, one
water wheel, which would give thera 70 daughter. Miss Lillian Beaton, and a son,
feet fall. This plant they estimate would I Daniel Beaton, both of whom reside in
coat about $80,000 and (five them 935 Websterville. The deceased was born in
horsepower for the development of clec- pcotla nd and was 54 years old. Her maid
tricity. Ln name .was Annabella Mathieson and
These developments would allow them her marriage to Mr. Beaton took place 2li
to make a minimum price of eight mills I years aeo. .She had been a resident of
per kilowatt at the switchboard for large Websterville for the past 20 years. Lat-
amounts of electricity, the company is
Judge Fred M. Butler announced In
Washington county court this forenoon
that he would undoubtedly return Juno
20, after he finishes in Lamoille count',
to hear chancery matters and such cases
of law that are left with the court. Fi
nal adjournment probably will not bo
taken to-morrow, but the clerk "was noti
fied that all exceptions must be filed as
if final adjournment was taken.
In the Mooney will case judgment w-as
entered that the instrument propounded
was tLe last will of Mhrgaret Mooney
and the contestants are ordered to pay
the costs of trial in county court, and
judgment certified back to probate court.
The following entries were made in di
vorce cases: Mary L. Pierce vs. James A.
Pierce, left with the court; Finest A.
Hewlett vs. Clara Emily. Hewlett, bill
granted for desertion; Ida Dailey from
Willard Dailey, bill granted for intoler
able severity; Vernon E. Bylow vs. A via
I). Bylow, bill granted, desertion; Mil
dred Lamb vs. Leatr Lamb, intolerable
severity, petition dismissed; Ma Seeley
vs. William K. beeley, bill granted, re
fusal to support; Margaret Bennett from
George Bennett, bill granted, intolerabla
severity.
The 'case of Charles Heald vs. H. W.
Sutton, Alic Sutton Perry and Perry
Real Estate agency, in which the orator
seeks to recover farm property in Brain
tree from the defendant on the ground
that he was fraudulently deceived, ws
taken up again this forenoon. The ora
tor traded his ftirm, through the Perry
agency, to the Suttons for a spring water
svstem in Barre, the deal involving about
$10,000.
terlv she had suffered continually with
nomoaniment, tne Germans aenverea at alrexidy negotiating with the Udell com- pernicious anemia,
about 5 o'clock a series of offensive ac- pany at Groveton, K. H., and the Twin t ig expected that
tions between the Haudremont wood and
the Thiaumont farm.
"AH of these attacks were repulsed
with heavy losses, except at one point,
where enemy groups occupied a section
of trenches.
"In the region of Douaumont, the ar
State Gas k Electric Co. in St. Johnsbury
for the sale of large quantities of electri
city
Engineer H. A. Moody of Turners Falls,
Mass., was the only witness examined.
He said it was the Turners Fall Power
the funeral will be
held at the house Sunday afternoon at
o'clock with interment in the village
cemetery at WiJliamstown.
$20,000 FIRE AT NASHUA.
4 Electric Co. back of this scheme and stahles and Milk Deoot Destroyed Last
iiicry hciio.is conimuea very violently 1 that the maintenance of a steady now 01 1 vt
on both sides. At long range our runs waters in the Passumpsic and Connect i-1 s
set on fire a German supply depot at cut rivers was one of the main objects Nashua. V. H., May 2tf. A two-alarm
Heudicourt, northeast of St. Mihiel. Near of the creation of the large storage res- fire at 8:" last night in the residential
Etain a French air squadron fought a ervoir in Victory. He said it was prob- quarter of the. north end drew an ini
group of German aeroplane. Two of the able the dam would not be built until I metrac throng to the scene and inflicted a
iernian machines were forced down." I next summer. lows of $20.0(X),
London, May 28. The battle of Verdun The opposition was represented bv Da-1 The stables of Morrill Bros., truckmen
continues unabated. On both sides of the vid E. Porter and Harland B. Howe, who 2ft Norton street, and the milk depot of
Meuse river, northeast and northwest of fenr that the storage scheme may dam- Walter T. Boyd. 7 Shattuck street, were
the fortress, the Germans are keeping age the present owners of water powers destroyed with nio.t of their content
up their unprecedented bombardments alone: the Moose river by holding back! which included one ot Morrill Bros, auto
nd vicious infantry attacks, while the water in times of shortage in that
rrencJi are replying to the German guns I stream
01-aMer and possible bankruptcy.
"Did the administration at Washing
Ion or the Democratic majority in Con
gress do anything to correct the error'
They did not. Had it been the first ex
perience of the kind we need not have
fceen surprised, but it wa not the firrt.
It was the fourth. It had happened one
under Martin van Puren. lmvTt. It
happened again under James Buchanan.
Inptnorrat. It occurred once more under
Grnver Cleveland, Democrat. Now for a
fourth time the blunder was repeated
while in the White House sat Wnodrnw
Wi!rm. Demoernt. When their revenue
ytetn failed the remedy which the Dem
ocrat applied wa the one in which their
rrtr ia gimt eipert. They increased
the i.rert taiM and spert more mrey.
T?t tunc of the I'ricrwood law yru
The Resolutions.
The resolutions adopted recount the
progress of the nation under Republican
rule, rcgTet the dissension of 1012. de
plore the "wekne and incompetency"
of the present administration, endorse
the Vermont delegation in Congress, rail
(Continued on fourth p?1-'
Irate Individual (hit br golf balli
Hey! This will cost you
Golfer Didn't you hear me t
Fore"?
Irate Individual Four "will be mfa-
crcnt Record.
An Exchange of Ultimatums?
Although the I'nited States troops are
coming out of Mexico, they are not mm
I: .. . u A . u . 4 ... ; v. ,
statesman, Carranza, and his fellow-supporters
of liberty for themselves in
Mexico. The Washington government is
suppressing important facts concerning
the actual conditions; if ui known that,
on information affecting the troops now
across the border, the censorship is as
tight as that in Europe, and it may be
assumed that by hook or crook the ad
ministration will do all it can up to the
last moment to prevent the public from
learning that its punitive expedition has
been a pitiful failure.
One dispatch says that the de fact
government in Mexico has delivered an
ultimatum, demanding the immediate
ithdrawal of all troops. If that is true.
it is apparent that Mexico has taken a
lesson from Washington and is indulging
in a series of ultimatums. That in itelf
may be claimed a a great moral vic
tory, through the force of illustrious ex
ample, for the I'nited States, but to ex
perts in Washington who knew the facta
and are not befuddling themselves with
their own verbiage, the Mexican situation
lias never looked praer.
It would be interesting to know just
irtuallv shot for shot, and under a with
ering fire holding the Germans at almost
every point.
One more gain, however, has been made
by the Germans. After recapturing Fort
Douaumont and taking trenches south
nd southwest of the fort, the Germans
to the west have occupied a section of
French trenches following a series of at
tacks, in all of which they were repulsed
with heavy casualties except the one
where they penetrated the French lines.
Around Douaumont a heavy artillery
duel is in progress, and northwest of Ver
dun the (Germans hare increased their
artillery fire against the French on hill
304, probably preparatory to another in
fantry attack for posrssion of this
miich-fought-for point.
A German attack against the Russians
west of Dalen island gave them momen
tarily the possession of a Russian ad
vance attack by the Russians dislodging
the invaders. An attempt by fhe Teu
tons to advance against the Russians
north of Olvka station, southeast of
Alexander Dunnett represents the stor
age company.
FACULTY HOLDS FIRM.
Dartmouth Will Not Reinstate Editor
Wilson This Year.
Hanover, N. H., May 2rt. Announce
ment was made yesterday that the fac
ulty committee on administration had
decided not to grant the petition of the
undergraduates for the reinstatement of
F. Sterling Wilson, '16, of Washington,
editor-in-chief of the Jack o' Lantern,
who wlis "separated" from college for
writing and publishing an editorial crit
icizing the faculty.
It ws pointed out to the petitioners,
however, that "separation from college"
is not the same "permanent separa
tion" and that the date of its termina
tion is fixed by later action of the com
mittee upon application of the man sep
arated. It ia believed that Wilson mav next
fall petition for re-entrance into college
The
truck k a and a, number of wagons.
horses were saved.
The shop of Fire Commissioner Eu
gene W. Dunklee and the residences of
Allan Parker. Albert D. Melendy. Robert
J. Morrill and others caujrlit from sparks
but were saved by the firemen, aided by
soldiers of Co. D, first infantry, N. II.
X. G., who were called from a drill in
the nearby armory, and a large detail of
police.
The origin of the fire is a mystery, the
neighbors first noticing the blaze when
the flames were sweeping through the
main Morrill building.
JITNEY WAS OVERTURNED.
Four Passengers and Driver Were Dumped
Beside the Road, Slightly Hurt.
A Ford touring car, operated by Wil
liam George of Montpelier as a public
car between Barre and Montpelier,- was
overturned near Intercity park late yes
terday afternoon, all of the occupants,
three men and a woman, besides the driv
er, being thrown into the field. Th
identity of but one passenger, W. .T.
Masters of Bethel, a machinist at Wind
sor, was learned. Masters suffered a
badly' jammed right hand but it is not
believed that any bones were broken.
He said that the others were cut about
the face and hands.
According to Mr. Masters, the Ford
machine was proceeding in the direction
of Montpelier when a big machine in
their rear sounded the horn to get by.
Mr. George accommodatingly, according
to Masters, turned out to one side and
a he did so the rear car ran into the
smaller one and pushed it over a small
bank.
STREET TRUCK RECEIVED.
WANT PAY WEEKLY.
I ...!, - .,14 hr h P..
In the recion southeast of Trent andl ""v - "
across the border in Italy, Rome reports
the repulse of Austrian attacks and Hie
throwing back of the attackers in dia
VICTORY FOR RAILROAD.
order. In tJie AiK-o roma region tne
Italians are replying effectively to the
bomtMrdmetit of the Aiutrians. In the
Asiago Sugana valley the situation is
unchanged.
I'etrograd report a junction of Rus
sian troops with the BntUh forces in the
region of Kut-cl-Amara. The Russians
came from the region of Kermanshah and
Kasr-i Slurin. in Persia northeast of
Bagdad. This announcement probably
refers to the force of t'osacks which was
icltiriallv reported severs! day ago from
what Fun.ton thinks of per- i jJ,inj,n" lo ha jitJ (!,e BritUi.
formance in which he has been made to
play a minor and to him an unusual part.
Boston Traveler.
Small Flicker.
Irate Grocer Confound these women!
Here'i one telephones me to send a box
of I nee ia biscuit and a lamp wkk all
the way to Summer lale by U o'clork.
fut-tomer iTobab'r going to l.ave a
Fjht lun h. Tiger.
In connection witc he righting near
the Persian front. ( onuntinopie reports
that the Turks have stopped the advance
of the Rusians ir. the region of Kasr-i-Shirm
and al-o Jefted Ku-sjin detach
ments at Stitamanii-h nrth of Kasr-i-hirin.
I nofimal ad wee from AGwb say that
a heavy 1 tnlisHment ami iafaatry -
lions hae taken pi-e !rm Jfcuran to
.ieg:i, on t1 Macedonian frcnt, an 1
In Case If Irvin W. Thayer vs. Boston &
Maine R. R.
Woodsville. V. H., May 36. In the case
of Irvin W. Thayer vs. the Boston and
Maine railroad, to recover for damages to
his farm, caused by changing the flow
of the Connecticut river, the jury in the
superior court yesterday brought in a
verdict in favor of the defendant.
ln the case of the Thomas Motor Car
company of Buffalo vs. E. I- Merrow of
Bethlehem, the jury found for the plain
tiff. ;
The jurv was dismissed, and court
will probably convene again at
vill on June 6.
Paving Cutters at Milford, N. H., Struck
When They Failed to Get It.
Milford. X. H., May 20. More than .r0
paving cutters and quarrymen employed
at the B. A. IVase A (0. quarry went on
strike yesterday, after reporting for
work at the usual time. The principal
point of contention, it is rcorted by the
men, is on the frequency of payment.
The men want fo be paid weeklv, and
the company has declined fo pay as frc
quently as that. When they found their
pay was not waiting for them yesterday
morning, the men adjourned from the
ouarrv to pranite cutters', hall, where
they held a meeting and discussed future
plans.
WOMAN ACCUSED OF ARSON.
to
Ellen Phillips of Underbill Alleged
Have Fired Her Own Buildings.
Burlington. May 2(1 Ellen Phillips was
brought to the county jail in this city
last evening from I'nderhill, where she
was arrested on a state's attorney war
rant charging arson. It is allege. that
she set fire to her home buildings in I'n-
Woods-iderhill to defraud an insurance company.
IN DALLAS NEXT YEAR.
that entente allies have dropped bombs f.n,i l,s.mMv of the Presbvteriai.
on several towns in r-ernia new by 1 lie
Teutonic albes.
King eorge has signed the mil tary
service mil under w ntcn an ma lea of
Church Will Meet.
Atlantic City. May 2". The general
;asmblv of the Prrsbterian church has
tween te ages of 1 and 41 yr may selected Dallas. Texas, as the meeting
be railed to the colors. lace for next jear.
And Was at Once Put to Work on Clean'
Up Campaign.
Barre's new street department motor
tractor, due for ita initiation in the serv
ice around April 15, arrived in the city
Thursday afternoon long overdue, but
proving itself, nevertheless, a strong fin
isher. Someone over in East Montpelier
who had heard that Barre was about to
add to its motorized vehicles telephoned
Barre man that the truck passed
through that section about noon, over
he J.l. 4 W. R. railroad. The word waa
passed along to Alderman A. E. Bruce,
who went to Montpelier and persuaded
the freight people to send the flat ur
bearing the truck to this city on the su
burban train reaching Barre at 1:oj
o'clork.
All of which leads up to the announce
ment that the Jeffreys truck arrived just
in time to lie dedicated on clean up day.
It was unloaded from a siding in the M.
4 W. R. freight yard last night and
transferred to a local garage. This mortis
ing four or more horses, reserved for
collecting the accumulation of the clean
up campaign, were compelled to send
in their resignations, as it developed that,
the big tractor was pretty capable of
doing all the t nuking that was neces
sary. It lad a busy first day in Barre.
As yet the machine is in the hands of
the agents who sold the outfit to the
city council last March. If it measures
up to specification, it will be turned
over to the city at once. "Street Depart
ment of Barre, No. 1." is emblazoned on
the sides, of the car and no one who see
it passing by will have to look twice
to learn who owns the machine. It cost
fS.llsi.
The Clesn-Up Work.
Men and teams acting under the direc
tion of the Barre Board ot lraile wnnnci
awav on the fringes of Barre's annual
lean-up campaign. For the most part
the public entered into the spirit of the
occasion with commendable enthusiasm
and there was plenty of work mapped
out for the collectors this forenoon. At
noon collections had not been completed
and it was thought that most of the aft
ernoon would be neeiici 10 complete ins
task. Remnsnta of the general cleanup
may d mand the attention of the workers
Saturday forenoon, but a strenuous rffTt
will be made to have the work completed
in every section of the city by to-mor
row night. To-day the services of the
citv'a new street department truck werw
atailatiie ana mm n was avompitnea
that otherwise would lave had to b
lefl UD'iopa.
