untnt
3
r'
trWENDf-roCKTU YEAR.
nr n n rnnn n i iniivinn no!
I IUIU I l-Ll lili I
I II HI J I lull VI Uilll YUuni)
TanaV ikaWV aaW V V I - I
II I see. I ' ,
CASOUNE KILLS
ROSWELL WOMAN.
IBIown Tbroerh Rid of Hoaa and
Fright f ally Burned by Blaslag Fluid
House is Shattered by Fore of
Blast. Exact Manner of Accident,
or Ila Cause, Will Probably Never
b Kmwi Foneral Tomorrow.
Wednesdys's Roswell News.
Mr. Michael Wllion. aged 23 years,
wat the sacrificial offering of the ex
tjloilv elemente of gasolina yestcr
day afternoon when sh was literally
blown through a window in the hous
in the house in which she had been
cleaning some clothes with gasoline.
The horrible accident occurred yes- i
tarda y afternoon about four o'clock
and the woman ended her terrible suf
ferina in death at 12:30 o'clock thU
morning.
Mrs. Wilson had been engaged dur
ing the afternoon ia her rooms at 802
North Missouri avenue in the clean
ing of some wearing aparel with
gasolina, Raving at Mast a nan tuoiui
of the explosive in room of the
building. The windows of the house
war apparently all closed, no doubt
duo to the high winds which were pre
valling all yesterday afternoon. Mrs.
Wilson wa the only eeeuaent of the
house at tit time of tho accident and
perhaps the exact manner of tha ac
cident or its causes whlsh 14 to her
death will never be known.
From the circumstances connected!
-with the ease it aspeara that Mrs.
Wilson had left the room where she
had been working with the gasoline,
going into the kitchen where she
-either lighted or intended to light the
gas range. As the gas rang wa
turned off after the explosion it is
Í resumed that the lady merely struck
h match to light the gas flame when
the gasoline fumes which had accum
ulated in the closed house ignited and
aosed an explosion which shook the
entire neighborhood and all but de
molished the house in which the holo
caust occurred.
Mrs. Wilson was blown through the
north wii.dow of the kitchen so ter
rific was the explosion and lighted
several feet outside of the building
Her clothing had apparently been
burned or blown off in her exit from
the building, as neighbors state that
ah was shorn of all clothing when
ah got up from the place where she
had iighted and commenced to run
from the premises.
Mrs. Hugh M. Huff, who lives close
to the WU-jj.'. itfaiúriiica, aaw tne
burning and distracted woman as sh
got up, and taking a rug from her
house ran out and caught her, wrap
ping the rug about her person and
smothering the Are as best she could.
Rev. E. C. Anderson was attracted to
the scene about this time and tha
woman was removed to an adjoining
house where physician were sum
moned. It was quit apparent to the physi
cians who were called after their ex
amination of Mr. Wilson that she
could not live for many hours, as
very vestige of her skin is said to
have been burned from her body,
though every effort was mad to pre
serve her life and relieve her of the
excruciating pain. Sh was later re
moved to vhe hospital where sh died
directly after midnight
Mrs. Wilson is said to be a native
-of Texas, and had been married to
Michael Wilson for some two and one
half years. Her husband is janitor
at the Allison building and th Car
negie library. The couple ar quit
frugal and Industrious and wr mak
ing heroic effort to establish a horn
with modern living condition. They
bad just completed th payment of
their house furnishing with on of
th local furniture dealer. All of
their good wer destroyed by th flr
and water.
The building, a flv-room frame,
plastered structure, was wrenched
and torn from its foundation by tha
terrific explosion. Th walla on th
north and south sidos of th building
wer torn from their foundation and
rents from one to three feet ar visi
ble along th lower line, while the
plaster wa pulverised and scattered
all over th house. Th calling and
and hang onto th wall topsy-turvy.
All of th windows were shattered
i and blown out. Taa buildino-. whila
, yet aUnding. ia all feuf wrecked from
n explosion, strange to aay tha
flame from th explosion did not ap
pear to have gained much headway
la devouring th structure when the
Are department waa called to th
ceno, piobably du to th plastered
walls. Th firemen used chemical ex
tinguishers in allaying th flamea
from th tub of gasolina and abort
th furnishings, and later the water
waa turned into the building. The
house is the property of th J. a
Henning heirs.
Th funeral service for Mr. Wil
son will be held tomorrow afternoon
at 3:00 o'clock from the Dlllsy par
lora, Rev. S. E. Allison will conduct
th service, assisted by Rev. Alfred O.
Kuhn. Interment will follow ia South
Park cemetery.
DEATH OF MISS SHEPHERD.
Misa Thai ma Shepherd died at tha
cottage sanitarium Monday afternoon
at four o'clock, of tuberculosis. Sh
had been at that institution about four
weeks. Her mother had been notified
f her fallía; condition and cam at
once, getting her only an hour be
fore her death. She seemed to rally
nough to knew her mother. Th
body waa shipped Tuesday to th old
home in Clinton. Ohio. The Current
extends sympathy fto the bereaved
family and friend.
WILLIAM LLOYD FOSMARK.
The one flower of the Casper Fos
mark home was claimed by the Reap
er, Monday, May 22nd, 1910.
"There la a reaper, whose nam Is
death, who reaps the boarded grain at
a breath, and the flowers that grow
between.
This tender flower was riven to
their care about fifteen month airo.
He was born February 2nd, 1915, and
was a strong:, healthy child, always of
a sunny disposition. Some time airo
ho contracted whooping; couirh and
it left him very thin and delicate.
Mrs. Fosmark went us to her mother's
at Portales In April, about tho 21st,
to see if the change would help him,
'but in some way n contracted pneu
monia, and having complication of
bowsl troubl from Uething.there was
3 i Ule chance for hia Hfe. He seemed
unconscious from Friday and took
very little, if any, nourishment. Ha
rallied Monday about ten o'clock and
I took a spoonfull of milk, and died that
afternoon.
The funeral services were held at
the residence. Rev. J. T. Redmoa offi
ciating. The services and songs could
only bring nope and comfort to tha
sorrowing mother and father, as they
wer selected and consoling as "suffer
little children to come unto M. and
forbid them not, for of such ia the
kingdom of heaven". He certainly
looked sweet enough for a Httl angel
in his little white plush, flower-laden
casket, and Mrs. Ralph's soloi "Some
Time w Will Understand", brought
tears to every mother' eye.
The pail bearers were Messrs. Wal
ter Ralph, C. C. Lewis, Will Purdy,
L. E. Hayes. The Intoerraent waa at
City Cemetery and many automobiles
followed to the cemetery and some
of the friends made kodak pictures
of th flower covered grave.
TOM JONES MOVES
Tom Jones and family left yester
day for Arixona. They ar going to
make a summer camping trio, will
will
travel when the weather suit them,
and look at the country a they go.
They are looking for a ranch loca
tion and expert to go as far as Bis
bee, possibly further if they do not
And Just what they want. The girls,
Misses Lucy, Linney, and Barbara
Jones, will accompany them. This
way of Mr. Jones going away and
robbing Carlsbad of three well known
end well liked girls at one time does
not sound as pleasant as if we could
state they were going for a visit in
stead to stay. Well, It is hoped they
will be like some of us and will not
And anything that suits them as well
as Carlsbad, and they will come home
by the time school starts. Tom Jones
has the distinction of being the first
white child born either in Chaves or
Eddy countiss and has grown to man
hood, married and reared his family
here, and the good wishes of the en
tire community accompany them on
thia journey and may they find a
pleasant home and many new friends
where ever they decide to "hang their
hats" and call it home.
AUCTION BRIDGE.
Among the pretty parties was th
bridge party given by Mrs. Roy Wal
ler Friday afternoon at her home.
Ferns, cut roses were used in profu
sion in most artistic manner through
out the rooms where four tables ware
arranged for the players.
Mrs. H. H. Dilly won a hand Anished
lunch cloth and napkins for high score
and Miaa Roberta Breeding consola
tion prise, a hand engraved glass with
sterling silver rim. Following the
gamea a two course luncheon was
served at tha individual card tables.
Mints were served during the evening.
Mrs. Waller was voted a very plea
sant hostess.
BOX FOR COMPANY B.
A box will be made up every week
and leave the Star Pharmacy for the
front on the border for Company B.
All who wish to donate comforts or
luxuries for the boys should leave
their donations at the Star Pharmacy.
One of the pleasant social events of
the past week waa the dance given
Monday evening at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. George Lucas by Frank Lu
cas and Gladys Bush in honor of Miss
Mary Fletcher who ia a visitor in
Carlsbad from th plain. Refresh
ment consisting of Ice cream and
cake were served during th evening,
whil a marry crowd of young people
whlled away th happy hours dacning
to beautifulplano music by Mr. Nel
lie Gray. Tho present were Misses
Mary and Bertha Fletcher, Nellie
Smith, Glady Bush, Helen Wright,
Maeie Uesery, Grace Jones, Ruth
Daugherty, Sweetie Bunch, Dana Besa
Ucea, Mr. Paul Gray; Mesar. Her
bert Little, Everett Grantham, Cha.
Walker, Arthur Breeding, Will Reed,
Fred and Frank Lucas.
t Sosrelfa Trent, state deputy for
the W. 6. Ws, is her this week,
working for th interest of this order
and the Circle. He has secured
number of applications for both or
ders. Dr. Lackey left Saturday nlo-ht for
New
i or wty, aro ng by way of Chi
r rti. . . - "
cago, where he will make a atop-over
Dr. Lackey will be away about tis
week and will take a post graduate
rse. H 1 on of th leading phy
sicians her and has a large prae
. Whil h ia away, Dr. Black
will hay charge of th o flic and Dr.
Lackey's patieuts.
CARLSBAD, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, I V Y ISM.
CARLSBAD BOYS HOME.
a n i . T M .
9am nouvruv, ijawrvncv piBroiii
Jim Walker, Ram Lusk, Louie, Fred
and Calvin Area, uranvtlle Hardy,
and Blythe McCollum are Carlsbad
boys who have attended the N. M. M.
I. the past year and arrived yester
day from Roswell, where they have
mad (rood.
I Out of the four scholarships award
ed for academic work, three were giv
n Carlsbad bevs. Thev are Jim
Walker, 8am Roberta and Lawrence I
Merchant. When boys make good at
school where they find so many at-
tractions and diversions from the rou-
tine of school duties, thev can not
be too highly commended, by their
parents and tnetr friends alike, and
a hand shake and a hearty welcome
is extended from the Current ofllce to Mrs. Nellie uray. conspicuous among
all the boys not only those winning th many gayeties of the week, was
laurels, for we must encourage them th dance and barbecue given Friday
at home, to try again next year, and night, when 125 people or more were
make it worth their whil to land present and enjoyed on of thos old
th trophy. lime all-night dances, and th violin
Among th visiting boys that atop- railed all to dance and be merry,
pod over in Carlsbad, were George The last thing on the program was
Cowden, of Midland. Texas. Newman breakfast for all, and the merry dan
Wells, of San Angelo, Texaa, Cadet cers left for their various home to
McGregor, L. Talbert, a relative of dream f on mor royal time
Dick Judkins. Mrs. Lig Merchant , . mw
cms down on the same train from BIRTHDAY PARTY.
Roswell where sh had been for com-' 1
mencement week, also Albert Are
i went no Saturday and enioved being
with hia brother. ing on the cool lawn at the court
I Colonel Wilson delivered the schol- aoose, where sh and her little friends
arships and medals, the scholarships enjoyed a frolic on the grass and ice
being awarded to Lawrence Buford cream and cake. She gave as favors
Merchant, of the Third class, Samuel crepe baskets Ailed with .candy and
Irving Roberta, Jr.. of tha Fourth dolls. 8h waa delighted with her
'Clasa, Jim Hess Walker, of th Fifth gifts. Th guests were Mr. Rick
Class, and Eeart Sprago Bullock, of man, and the children, Mary Belle and
the Sixth class. These scholarships C. D., J., Mr. Gsmel, little daughter,
entitle the holder to apply the same. Mary tais and John Worth, Mr,
a a certificate of 150.00 as tuition. Home and Adilene, Mr. Hanson and
FISHING TRIP.
Dick Judkin and family, Mrs. Belle
Pendleton. Mrs. Ida Cooper. Mrs. Hill
and little daughter, spent two days at 1 ,
the state line Ashing, having gone Fri- May ÍSth. W. T. Allen and Lillie
day morning In Mr. Judkin'a big car Brunson, both of Cooper, were mar
and taking a ci mp outfit in the trailer. ri"l at the Clerk,' office by Judge
They enjoyed the trip very much, Richards yesterday,
caught plenty of fish. They seemed to i May 22nd Judge Richards married
have the same ugly wind Saturday i the popular Mexican couple. .l;o
that blew here all day. Outside of'MinJares and Refujio ?astraana. at
the wind Saturday nothing but a good tho Clerk's office.
time with nlentv to eat was exiwrienr
ed. They returned Monday.
EDDY COUNTY HOSPITAL ITEMS I
Mr. Ed. Coffey was dismissed yes-
terday and is now at the home of
his daughter, Mrs. Ben Kuykendall
on Rocky.
John Merchant's thumb was tsken
off Sunday and is doing fairly well.
Genial Ed. Bass, now of the Queen
country, but a long time resident of
Carlsbad, paid this office a pleasant
call Wednesday, and left a quart of
Ane cherry jam. This jam was made
by one of the girls from wild cherries
and is a real treat to any one who
knows what is good.
FOR THE PARTICULAR SMOKER
"LA lUGBANA"
A GENUINE IMPORTED MANILA
Something Different But Just Right
Sold only at th
EDDY DRUG STORE
PENSLAR
Clean up day la coming. Do not
wait f?r rnur neighbor; do It first.
Improve the appearance of your sur
rounding and insure health to you
and family and friends by destroying
all feeding and breeding place for
I Hies. They thrive on nitn. Solutions
of hellebore, borax or kerosene will
destroy the larvae.
I Masdames S. P. Pag and Y. R.
' Allen left yesterday morning for El
I Paso. Mrs. Page is going for treat
' ment Mrs. Allen will stop over in
Sierra Blanco, Texas, and visit her
sister, Mrs. Frasicr, before she re
turns. Fred Pendleton and wife returned
to the ranch last week after a few
dava visit in town taking Myrtl Ad-
I kins, Mrs. Pendleton' little sister, for
1 th summer and Clarence Cooper, the
I little nephew, for a visit.
Mr. and Mrs. EUlott Hendricks, Mr.
and Mrs. H. E. James, motored to Ar.
tesia Sunday, attended mass and vis
ited Mr. Hendrick's aunt. Mrs. L, II.
Boyd and returned to Carlsbad in
the afternoon.
Hart Barnes Is seemingly recovered
and suffering from no ill ffecta of
blood polioning. lis has laid asid
. his crutch after using it about two
weeks. II is getting hi business in
shape to leave for Oak Grove, La.,
j the first of June.
For Sunday Desert, Ice Cream,
Sherbet or Watear Ires.
I V ' SWEET SHOP.
HOUSE PARTY AT THE
BUS LUCAS RANCH.
taut week was a gsy week at the
Dan Lucas ranch, when a number of
visiting girl eajoyed house party
from Monday until Saturday morning.
The ranch is beautifully located, and
any time you look out you ran see
cattle and horses coming; and going:
now and then a cow boy galloping
across the range, and this week it was
an easy matter to see riders coming
and going for this crowd of visiting
girl rode horseback every day; some
times to get the mail, but more often
to play cow girl. The visiting girls
were the Misses Gladys Hush in
whose honor the house party was .
planned, Pearl and tarrta Glick. from i
the Gap, Mary Walker, Mary Hetrher.
Anna Allen Hardy celebrated ner
second anniversary Wednesday even-
r.arl, Jr.. rniins marie noose, iouis
Moore. Miss Annie Carter, Mrs. Purdy
and Mis Elisabeth Purdy.
LICENSE TO WED.
EASTERN STAR.
The I. O. O. F. kindly gave the
Eastern Star the use of their hall Inst
night, when tne orand matron lor
New Mexico, Mrs. Emma Muir, of
Lordsburg, and Grand Patron, W. II.
Newcomb, of Silver City, addressed
that body at a call meeting, each of
the officials making an address. They
were well pleased with the manner
in which the local chapter conducted
ita meeting. At the close of the meet
ing, a social hour was enjoyed and
refreshments served, and enjoyed im
mensely. Christian A Co., Insurance.
AFTERNOON AT BRIDGE.
Mrs. Will Ed. Carter was hostess
Monday afternoon at her pleasant
home, with tables placed for sixteen
player of auction bridge. After the
exciting games, Mrs. H. 1L Dilly won
high score lovely sandwich basket.
Mis Roberta Breeding received jar
of paniiaa for low acor. A delicious
salad course was served, at th close
of th diversion, at th daintily laid
card tables.
VACATION.
Tom Hill. asslsUnt postmaster, ha
two weeks vacation which begina
today. Mr. Hill expects to spend part
of his vacation on a Ashing trip and
from his threat all th big Ash had
better hide out. Small Ash are safe.
When he has leaped hi vengeance
on the Aney tribe, he will seek th tall
pin trees In th Guadalupe moun
tains and in company with H. 11. Dil
ly they ar going to rest and enjoy
an ideal cllmat. Mr. Hill needs th
rest and whil he will be missed at
the postoffice his friends are assured
that two weeks will soon pass and he
will be on the Job again.
The children's choir of St. Edward's
church have been doing some good
work in the way of singing. These
children have only been practicing
with their teacher. Miss Johanna
Hudiburgh, since school started which
was the first of February, and they
sing th mass almost perfectly, and
any on wishing to hssr them can do
so most any Sunday morning at nin
o'clock mas at St. Edward's church.
ilili
EDDY COUNTY INSTITUTE.
The Eddy County Institute will be
held in the High School Building at
Carlsbad, June 6th to 17th, 1016.
J. H. Taylor, Supt Schools, Deming,
will be the conductor; Mrs. II. (2. How
ard, principal l-ovlng school, B. H.
Kirk, supt. schools, idikewood, B. r.
Kaiser, supt. schools Dayton, Dorothy
White, teacher in Alhuuuernue Public
schools. J. W. Knerr, county agricul-
lural agent, Eddy County, will be th
instructors.
A fee of $1 Is required for elemen
tary Arat grade certificates issued on
credits or for extension or renewal of
elementary first grade certificate.
Full Information in. regard to re
quirement for professional certifi
cates may be had from State Superin
tendent of Schools, Santa Fe, N. M.
An Institute fee of 12 payable upon
enrollment will b charged. We have
not yet been informed as to whether
or not the state department will make
a charge for Institute manuals. Last
year no charge was made.
Visitors to all Institute sessions are
welcome. It is expected that state
superintendent White, state director
of industrial education Mr. Mersfelder,
and other prominent in educational
work in th state, will lecture during
the institute and it will ease be favor
ed by visita from local ministers and
othera Interested In educational work.
A mimeograph list of boarding and
rooming places with prices will be
ready for distribution about two
weeks before the beginning date. All
who desire a copy may obtain it at
that time on request.
FISHING PARTY.
Monday afternoon a gay party of
campers from l-ovington passed thru
town enroute for Black river where
they are spending the week enticing
the Aney tribe to nibble. They were
in automobiles and were provided with
splendid camping equipments. They
were joined here by Mrs. Bert Raw
lins. Those coming from Uivington
were John Garrett and daughter. Miss
Alma Gray, Harris Garrett, and wife,
Tom Green and wife, Koy liumiltnn,
T. E. Douglas.
DANCE AT MONUMENT
Friday morning Walter Pendleton
his sister, Mrs. Is Hates, Miss Ella
Campbell, Miss Nora Renev. and the
Mexican musicians left town to enjoy j
a trip and dance at Monument. They i
were Joined by Mr. and Mrs. Marvin
Livingston, Miss Lucy Jones, and Mr.
Dresner, Hob Richards, wife, Joe Lusk,
wife, and as they journeyed they rest
ed at the various ranches, danced and
feasted, making the trip one of plea
sure. After enjoying an all night
dance with refreshments, they started
on the return trip Saturday morning.
When about eighteen miles out Wal
ter's car ran out of gasoline and tho
. other car passed them on another roud
'then came to a ranch and wailed, but
,as they did not come, the car went
i l ack and found them quietly wuiting.
They hud no further trouble getting
. home and say they certainly enjoyed
j the trip and especially the dance.
Thuroduy evening Miss Lillian Hear
up entertuined with a dance at the
home of her parents. Dr. and Mrs.
A. A. Iioarup, in honor of the N. M.
M. I. cadets, Messrs. Louie, Fred anil
Calvin Ares, Sam Roberts, Jim Walk
er, Granville Hardy and Blythe Mc
Collum, who came home yesterday.
Delicious in cream and cake were
served during the evening, while music
on the piano, graphonola and violin
helped pasa the houra all too awiftly,
and tha guests departed, voting Miss
Lillian a most charming hostess. The
visiting cadets were: Messrs. George
Cowden, of Midland, Texas, Newman
Wells, San Angelo, Tsxas, and L. I.
Talbert, El Paso. The ladies present
were Misses Mildred Richie, Winnie
Dishman, Grac Jones, Mabel and Vir
gtnla Thayer, Sweetie Mae Bunch,
Ruth Pendleton, Minnie Jones, Mrs.
Ed. Lamb and Mrs. Lige Merchant.
Messrs. Dallas Jones, Chas. Walker,
Albert Ares, Herbert Little, Everett
Grantham, Carl Dishman and Arthur
Breeding.
Mrs. R. L. Halley was hostess Mon
day to a bridge party and a most en
joyable afternoon was spent with
many rounds of games. There were
two table of player and Mrs. Will
Hicks captured the prisa at her ta
ble; a dainty handkerchief, while Miss
Grac Cook won th other favor; a
pair of silk hos. At th close of
th gamea a two-course luncheon was
served.
Howard Crayter, of the Batea hotel,
who has been with them so long ana
is always ao obliging and pleasant
thst ho has become a flxture. was
called to his horn In Tennessee where
his fathar is ill.
Examination for rural rout car
riers will be held tomorrow at 9:00
a. m., at th Reclamation building.
Rural routes from Loving and Hop
are to be established In the distant fu
tura when funds are available and a
number of contestants are expected
to take the examination.
A. D. Jones, of Lovington. sold hi
ranch to Eb Ivy for $1,400 and his
heifer cattle for 142.60 around, steers
at $:iS.00, cows and calves netted him
''ó.00. Mr. Jonea delivered the est
ile Thursday of lub; w.ek He still
owiu elieep. He ha not decided
whether he would confine his herd
to sheep or buy more cattle.
Christian k Co., Insurance.
kuxbzb m.
RECLAMATION SERVICE JOINS
WATER USERS ASSOCIATION IN
THEIR ADVERTISING WORK.
Proposed to Thoroughly Exploit the
Many Good Points of the l arlabad
Project. Commercial Club Alee
A Mista. i
WATER USERS TAKE ACTION UP
ON SAFETY OF M' MILL AN DAM
A board of engineers of the Recla
mation Service consisting of D. C.
llenney, M. Walters, and I.. E. Fos
ter, visited McMillan Dam Wednesday
with the bourd of directors of the
I 'ecos Wuter Users' Association. The
dam was gone over thorougnly and
upon their return the Hoard unani
mously passed the following resolu
tion. I he expenditure will likely be about
S2D0,000, but will be expended out of
a balance already voted by the farms
provided the Secretary fo the interior
approves the suggestion:
Carlsbad, N. M., May 21. 1916.
Mr. L. E. Foster,
Project Engineer, U. S. R. S., Carls
bad, New Mexico.
Sir: .
We beg leave to transmit through
you to the proper officers of the Inter
ior Department of the United Bte.Ua
and to the Interior Department 'the
following resolution passed by (the
Hoard of Directors of tha 1'ecoa Water
Users' Association.
This resolution was . passed after
consultation with Engineers and a
personal visit to McMillan dam by the
entire board of directors on thia date.
RESOLUTION.
WHEREAS, this board of directors
after a personal inspection made of
the McMillan dam, made this day in
person, does consider that the spill
ways of said dam and reservoir aa
they exist at tha present time, are
not aa safe from back cutting and aa
rapacious as desirablo for the safety
of the reservoir, upon which the Car
Ihbad Project is very largely depend
ent for its water supply, and
WHEREAS, there remains availa
ble from the fund for supplemental
construction voted by the water us
ers on January l'.'th, 1915, approxi
mately the sum of three hundred and
twenty thousand dollars ( $110,000.00 )
and
WHEREAS, the cost of safeguard
ing and enlarging these spillways or
to build additional outlets ia believed
to be far below the above unexpended
balance of three hundred and twn
ty thousand dollars
UK IT RESOLVED, thut this board
requests the Secretary of the inter
inr to approve plans for a larger spill
vuy capacity of tha McMillan reser
voir and submit said plana, together
with estimates of the cost to thia
Hoard at the earliest possible date to
the tul that such pluns may be con
sidered and approved to the mutual
satisfaction of the Secretary of the
Interior of the United States and this
board nf directo: r.
AND HE IT FURTHER RESOLV
ED, that thia work contemplated, be
paid for out of the unexpended balance
rr portion of Ihe fuml voted for and
iiiiltmnred by th Mm re hobWs of
tho I'ecos Water Users' Association in
their election of January loth, i'JIft,
and thut in view of the immediate
necessity of the proposed work thia
board of directors desires to exercise
what it believes to be its legal power
to make the necessary money availa
ble for this work from the abov men
tioned fund without prior recourse to
a general election.
A ropy of the ballot used at tha
election of January 10, 191,r, authoris
ing the Hoard of Directors to act in
thia matter is attached hereto and
made a part of this resolution.
RESOLVED, that th Peco Water
Users' Association, a corporation or
ganised under the law of the Terri
tory of New Mexico, and now doing
business under the laws of the State
of New Mexico, do hereby authorise
the Hoard of directora of such asso
ciation to enter into and make any
contract with the Secretary of the
Interior of the United Sutes which
will bind in a legal way, the stock
holders of this association and their
lands for the payment nf a total build
ing charge on the Carlsbad project
not to exceed fifty-live dollars per acre
on all lands held in trust bv such as
sociation and per share on the capital
stock of such association which may
have been issued under public notices
heretofore issued by the Secretary of
tha Interior under the Reclamation
Act, dated June 17, 1002 and act
amendatory thereto.
This resolution being passed for
the purpose of completing the con
struction of the Carlsbad project as
now constructed and including the
lands under the present main canal
and distributing system thereunder.
The additional building to be done as
promptly as possible in accordance
or as nearly as possible in accordance
with th recommendations of the Spe
cial Board consisting of Scott Etter,
W. R. Wilson, D. W. Murphy, and L.
E. Foiter, which recommendation waa
mad and filed on. September 6. 1914.
This resolution is further snseted Uuti.
there may b no delay In such con
struction now pending the Revalua
tion of the Carlsbad Project aa now
rontemplatej by the Secretary of the
interior, and tha lining of all bad
rortiens of the main canal; the lining
of several miles of large laterals, and
the construction of drainage linea
where moat reeded.
Th Catholic school closed last week
with May day picnic at the Bindle
home, where about firty or sixty,
counting th school children, enjoyed
a picnic dinner, boat riding, A'jhing,
and various cameo. jt
