1 c7.
MAIL ,
From San Frtnelaeo
Ten jo Mara. Sept. 1
For San Francisco .
Sonoma, Sept. 5
From Vancouver:
Niagara, Sept i
For Vancouver:
Hakura, Sept IS. A.
A?
Evening Bulletin. Cat. 1882, No. 656?
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV. No. 7603
14 PAGES HONOLULU, TEBBITOBY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1916. -U PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTS
, A
I I II
V 1
IK
hUJivlM MuS) iuJS)jl . i lo i m i'l . il luJIUJ n UJA A lhl IUJ
Greece on
mm ARffiA is
Giintv'GIIiG FAST AS
1E7 FACTORS RISE
Reported Rumania Has Invaded
Bulgaria and Occupied
Town of Rustchuk
RUSSIANS MOVING DOWN
TO ATJACK THE BULGARS
Germans Get French Trenches
on West But are Soon
Ejected, Says Paris
(AetccUted Preea fey Federal Wireleea)
BERLIN, Germany, Aup 31. The
Rumanians today made an attack on
the Austrian, out were repulsed and
the Austrlana captured Rumanian posi
tions In the mountains. .
The Rumanians have penetrated
welt into the Interior of Transylvania.
- ATHENS, Greece, Aug. 31.-
Developraents here in diplomatic
circles indicate that Greece will
abandon her policy of neutrality
within 48 hours.
Staff officers who have been on
leave have been recalled to their
commands. The armies are bein"
made ready for action and in dip
lomatic circles the king, ministry
and resident ministers are exceed
ingly active. ; : :, - ;".;.
If Greece abandons the neutral
ity which already" has been tech
) . nically violated, it will be to. cast
Lcr lot with the Allies in a mill
tarv t.nse. The Allies are now
.Ksins Greece frankly for military
purposes. .-: . t--i -i.
nu:.:AfiiArjs reported:
: AS, TAKING RUSTCHUK
PARIS, France, Aug. 31.- It is
report ed here Ty despatches from
the Balkans that the Rumanians
have occupied' the town of Rust
chuk,; , Bulgaria.' '". Rnstchuck is
just across the Danube? from Ru
manian'' soil- and easily, reached
from several' of. the Rumanian
railroad centers. ' v
RUSSIAN .SOLDIERS ARE
HURRIED UPON BULGARIA
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Aug. 31.
From their camps and lines In the
north, hordes of Russian soldiers are
now being tarried through, Rumania
on troop trains to strike at Bulgaria
rnd Turkey on the new Balkan line
created ; when Rumania joined the
Allies. i - : .'.v.-'..' ; '
SEVERE FIGHTING IN
PROGRESS IN BALKANS
'
LONDON,! Eng., Aug. 31. Severe
righting is in progress on the Mace-
"donian front, where the Anglo-
French troops from Salonlki, the new
ly organized Serbian army and some
Russians and Albanians are assailing
the Bu!garis ; and Teutons. An
Athens despatch says that the offen
sive of the Bulgarians below Monastir
. has been checked by the Serbians,
who are out on the left flank of the
Entente line. The Bulgarian ' losses
; for the last few days In the fighting
- here are estimated at 15,000.
BRITISH CASUALTIES FOR
AUGUST ARE VERY HEAVY
v LONDON, Eng., Aug. 3L Announce
ment of British casualties made today
by the war office gives the total of
- killed, wounded and missing British
in August as 4711 oflfcers and 123,234
men. - : - . - :
GERMAN SUCCESS AT
; PARR0Y SHORT-LIVED
.PARIS, France. Aug. 31. The Ger
mflTi tnriar br hard attacks on the
west penetrated the French trenches
In Parroy , forest, Lorraine, but were
-ejected by counter attacks.
FAIRBANKS NOTIFIED;
LET THE FIGHT BEGIN
(AMoeUted Preta by Tnimnl Wireless)
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind Aug. 31 The
formal ceremonies of notifying Charles
Warren Fairbanks that he is the Re
publican nominee for vice-preside'nt
occurred today at the Fairbank's
home, the notification being made on
the lawn of the mansion. Senator L.
Y. Sherman of Illinois came to India
napolis at the head of a committee of
prominent men .and made the notifica
tion address.
f . ' " i i ' ' i'" . " ' " ;' ' A : ' - ; "
4 iiiiiiiiiiiinnv mi
RUMANIAN PREMIER
WON OVER TO ALLIES
J.
(
Jan Bratianu (Bratiano), who
is credited -with having persuaded
King Ferdinand I it was time for
Rumania to join the Entente
Powera. ." ;
Improvements, Aviation and
a Taxes are Presented By : K
: Speakers:; " "
Two . particularly good talks and a
good report cn civic activities ; were
wade to the Rotary Club at its regu
lar weekly luncheon today' at the Com
mercial Club. ;". - . - ! v v :
Roscoe W.' Perkins, reporting for
the civic affairs 1 committee, told of
the business before the last meeting
of tne board , of supervisors, particu
larly referring to the blocking of the
Beretania street : improvement by
property-owners and lessees led by-L.
L. McCandless, He said x the : club
should consider the matter of action
as an organization to prevent such
holdups of improvement. This was
taken under advisement. '
A further suggestion in his report,
that the club investigate proposals for
a city bond if sue, was favored and a
committee of two will , be named to
discuss the matter with the chamber
of commtTCO committee.
Lieut R, C. Holliday, U. S. A.,
t oke briefly but eloquently on be
half of the proposed Aero Club of Ha
waii and asked the Rotarians to get
behind it with their support Acting
Chairman Bierbach ; urged the mem
bers to turn out a good representa
tion at the . meeting tonight In the
capitoL ' ; ' ; ! .
Merriam, registrar of; conveyances.
was the third and principal speaker.
dealing with the knotty subject of tax
ation, to which he Imparted a great
deal of interest He favors important
rianges in the territorial taxation
methods, saying that the law is wrong
n some points. - He referred to the
Somers system of taxation devised in
St Paul and illustrated : his points
here with graphic charts. He also
taid that the inheritance taxes in Ha
vail should be increased. He favors
an approximate doubling of the Inheri
tance tax rate. ! r
SAYS JAPANESE
(Associated Press r Federal Wireless)
PEKING; China, Aug. 31 Replying
to inquiries concerning the clash of
Chinese and Japanese, troops at
Cheng Chiatun. Mongolia, the premier
said today that the Japanese had
fired first
SHERIFF ESCAPES MOB :
AND SAVES PRISONER
(Associated Press br Federal Wireless)
LIMA, Ohio, Aug. 31. James t Eley,
sheriff, escaped from the mob here
today and at the same time saved his
negro prisoner from lynching. The
crowd, which had beaten the sheriff
until he consented to lead it to the
place where he hid the. prisoner ac
cused of assaurt, was 'finally per
suaded to let the law take its course,
and the negro has been conveyed to
jail at Toledo- ,
A
a
KOTARIANS HEAR
fiOOD TALKS ON
LIVE SUBJECTS
FIRED FIRST ON
CHINESE TROOPS
' . . i 1 : 1 : : - ...
ILMilrHilUII nil I I
IU1III 1 111U UILiLi
I L BE GREAT
HELP TO HAWAII
Maritime Houses and Importers
are Alike Pleased at News
of Measure's Passage
PACIFIC MAIlThIPS
; ARE MOST AFFECTED
Freight Congestion Likely to
End and Accommodations
Come for Passengers
Shipping men and Importers In H
nolulu today are wearing the smile
that will , not come off, the reason be
ing that it now looks very favorable
for : the shipping bill, which permits
all vessels registered under the Amer
ican flag to enter the coastwise trade,
becoming a law. j
At present if the law does go into
effect it- will affect principally the
Pacific Mall steamers Ecuador, Ven
ezuela and Colombia which have re
cently been purchased from the Dutch
Royal Mall Steamship Company and
placed nnder the American flag, as
these steamers may then carry pas
sengers and freight between Honolulu
and San Francisco. There are, how
ever, a large number of foreign built
tramp steamers which since the war
have come under American registry
and these .will be able to carry freight
from nere to coast ports.
The creat advantage, according to
many shipping men, is the increased
passenger accommodations which will
result and are badly needed. As Fred
L. Waldron said today: "If there was
only one .steamer running to the Isl
ands she would probably seldom car
ry a full list, but the more vessels that
are jon the ; run, the wore it will be
aa IndjxcemehC Xor people : to. .v come
here." uA; -. ::A , r.".:--
With more vessels running between
the Islands . and coast; ports, - there
Is also .less chance for a shortage of;
supplies, and, aa one shipper pointed
out. It will undoubtedly oring many
more steamers here that . otherwise
would JAever come. for. nearly. All of
the large shippings firms; on thevcoast;
own foreien built shios.' and jwlthi the
Increase of coastwise shipping be
tween mainland ports Hawaii is Douna
to benefit v : ''' ' " ' '".
Promotion Committee Pleased f
"The passage of the shipping bill
will; mean that tourist' travel will be
stimulated.? said A. P. Taylor, secre
tary of the-VHawail.- Promotion Com
mittee, today.V "It means that the
newly acquired Pacific Mail boats, the
: (Continued on page two)
GIVEN WHIPPING
Boy From Industrial School
Shows Marks on Body
and Says: Beaten
. . - : "-
Showine , the marks which he
rlflimpd he received In a beating by
officials at the Waialee Industrial
school because he had broken orders
and gone to swim in a pond near the
farm. Joe PhilllDS. a runaway from
the Institution, was brought to the
juvenile court yesterday arternoon ny
his married sister with the ( request
that he be given a parole.
Young Phillips was sent back to
tt6 reformatory by Judge C. W. Ash
ford, acting now in the Juvenile court
The Judge said today that: he has no
authority to grant a boy freedom rrom
the school, that this is in the hands
of the industrial school board of
which the Juvenile judge is a member.
"The boy showed the marks of
some -very vigorous handling," aaid
Judge Ashford today, "and had other
marks which were fainter and which
he claimed were from a previous
strapping. He said he: had been
stripped, tied up, and then strapped. "
"He admitted to me that he knew
it was contrary to the rules of the
school to swim in this pond, but said
that he had tried to get into the bath
room, had found it locked and so
chose the other place as he was In
a condition which called loudly for
cleanliness.
. "He confessed that - the former
strapping was for repeated violation
of the order against smoking." con
tinued the judge. "This was his sec
ond escape from the school. I under
stand that the application of his sis
ter for a parole had been passed on
Ly the committee and was apparent
ly ready to be granted by the indus
trial school board when it should hold
a meeting." " . . .
HERE'S VILLA LEADING FIGHT AGAN.
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mexico, Aug. 31. Gen. Villa, commanding 400
tandits in a ragged army, engaged in battle today with Carranza soldiers
under Gen. Etlzendo, east of Salveo. The Villista casualties number 150
nd the Carranzista casualties are nearly as heavy.
FIRST CALIFORNIA SUBMARINE IS LAUNCHED.
LONG BEACH, Cat, Aug. 31. The submarine L-6, the first submarine
to be built in southern California, was launched today successfully at the
plant of the Craig Shipbuilding Company. The wife of Lieut Will R, Murv
roe, inspector, christened the diver.
WADA MARU RETURNS FOR REPAIRS
The Japanese steamer Wada Maru. which put to sea at six o'clock this
mcrning. was forced to return because of leaking boiler tubes and anchored
off port at 11 o'clock. Captain Mizuno came ashore this afternoon to see
about having them fixed. The Honolulu Iron Works will probably do the
repairing. ,
DENIES KAPIOLANI BUILDING OFFERED TO CITY
John F. Colburn. manager of the Kapiolanl estate, said this afternoon
that there is no foundation for a rumor, made public Tuesday, that the
Kapiolanl building at the corner of King and Alakea streets is for sale.
Supervisor Ben Hollinger heard that the estate is willing to take $100,000
for the property. and proposed at a meeting of the finance committee that
it be purchased. for city offices. He, was to see Colburn today to discuss
the matter with. him, but missed the appointment Colburn says the
estate will sell If a satisfactory prlc e is made, but that $100,000 is not
satisfactory. 'v
EMPEROR'S ORDER DISMISSING GERMAN CHIEF OF STAFF
V Associated -Press news yesterday that the ' German emperor has dis
missed his chief of staff. Gen. von Falkenhayn, was further confirmed today
by the arrival of the following official German cablegram:
"BERLIN, Germany, Aug. 31. The emperor by a cabinet order yester
day discharged as chief of the general staff of the field army. General von
Falkenhayn, in order to charge him with other duties. The emperor has ap
pointed Field Marshal von Beckendorf and von Hindenburg, chief of the
German staff field army, and General-Lieutenant Ludendorff quartermaster
general of the army, ranking as general of infantry."
POSTMASTER'S RESIGNATION NOT YET ACCEPTED
Two weeks after a letter had bet n received from Postmaster William
F. Young saying that he, was not coming back to Honolulu, Assistant
Postmaster William C. Peterson had a communication from the postoffice
Department on Tuesday, it was learned this afternoon, stating that Young's
resignation had not been acted on down to August 15,. the date the letter
was written in Washington. . v :
Acting on a letter received from Young August 15, Peterson filled out
a bond as acting ppstmaster, and sent it on to Washington by the Manoa
at noon the ame day. ..Now he does not know whether he is legally act
ing postmaster or not, and has cabled Washington to find out He expects
an answer JHonday.? ' - -" . " ' . .- ' . ;
AERIAL TRAMWAY OVER PALI PLANNED.
One of the longest -aerial. tramways in1 the world will be built by the
Lord-Young Engineering Company from the foot to the top of the Fait, If
present plans go through, it was announced at a meeting of the board; of
agriculture and forestry at 2:45 o'clock. ( Application for permission to. use
ahout.three acre p ground at the point where the' power lines now . go
IJitough; the Fail iaas filed witk the board and referred byVit:4oA
;attorney-generil for an opinion' as to the power of the board in tne case;
t . ; Ed Lord, president tot the company, told at the meeting 6f having a
; curance of 6000 tons of freight from t Hawaiian Pineapple Company dur
ing 1917. It is planned to carry pines;" rice, bananas and general freight
ver the line if it is installed. It will be able to carry a five-ton load and
: will be 'about 2600 .feet long,", with an elevation of about 800 feet ;
'The estimated cost or the plant
BE FORMED WITH
General Johnson to Preside;
a Says He Has Applications
From Other Islands ; -
i With enough officers and enlisted
men of the National Guard of Hawaii
tigned up as agreeing to -'learn avia
tion to form an aero section; indica
tions are that attendance at the avia.
turn ' meeting tonight at 8:15 in the
aerate chamber of the capitoL build
ing to form the Aero Club of Hawaii
vill be record-breaking; . "v . '
l Brig.-Gen. Samnel 1. Johnson, com
manding the National ; Guard of Ha
waii,' will preside as temporary chair
man, introducing Gen. Evans. Charles
R. Forbes; captain of the 1st Company
of Engineers, N. G. H who was to
have served as chairman, cannot act
as he is in the hospital.
Women as well as men are invited
to attend, and will be accepted as
charter members on the same basis as
men. Gen. Johnson said this after
noon there are enough guard officers
and enlisteu men signed up, ready to
go to work to learn aviation, to form
an aero section, and that he has re
ceived many applications from guard
organizations on the other islands of
the group. .
HURRICANE WIPES OUT '
JAMAICA BANANA CROP
(Associated Pmi ty Iterst Wireless) ?
KINGSTON, Jamaica, Aug. 31. The
banana crop was entirely destroyed
in a hurricane which raged on Au
gust 15, and next year's crop will be
reduced 50 per cent
JAPANESE WILL JOIN
STRIKE IN CALIFORNIA
(AssocUte4 Prsss r Fsdersl Wireless) :
SAN FRANCISCO. Cal.. Aug.
30 The American labor unions
which declared for a great
railroad strike on September 4,
have been negotiating .with
Japanese laborers who are work
ing in the employ of railroad
companies to join the strike and
have succeeded. Japanese labor
ers are now compelled to join the
f strikers.
AERO CLUB WILL ; ITIGERS DEFEAT
is izo.ooo,; Lord said. ' .
YANKS; RED SUA
American League Race Grows
.More Exciting Every Day;
V Washington Coming Up
(AssocUted Press ttj TMsral Wirelssi) .
v BOSTON; "Mass iAug. SitBy los
ing today's game! to the Browns, while
Detroit was winning from the Yan
kees; Boston lost a 'chance to gain on
the Tigers aid the Champions will en
ter the Eastern series only one and
half games' ahead '' of the Jungaleers.
By winning today the Browns Jumped
ahead of the Yankees. Beginning to
morrow, r Washington will ; meet the
Athletics in a four-game series; Bos
ton will play the Yankees four games.
On Saturday the Western teams will
clash in the Welt In three series. Tea
results of the games today were as
follows: "" '.' A
AMERICAN LEAGUE '''AX'.
At Boston St Louis 2, Boston 1.
At Philadelphia Chicago 7, Phila
delphia. 1. ;:':
At New York Detroit 7, New York
3- v
At Washington Washington 15,
Cleveland 3. . -
, NATIONAL LEAGUE
At Pittsburg Pittsburg 3, Boston 2.
At St Louis Chicago 8, St Iouis i.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
- Won Lost Pet
Brooklyn . .......... 72- 44 621
Boston . 46 600
Philadelphia ...... 65 43' 570
New York ...... .. 60 5o S?2
Pittsburg . , 56 64 467
Chicago . , 55 6d 417
St.; Louis .... . 54- - 68 443
Cincinnati 46 78- 377
AMERICAN LEACUF.
Won.
..... 70
70
68
..... 67
66
.....66
..... 60
..... 27
Lost Pet
Boston . . -
Detroit .
Chicago . ....
Cleveland .
St Louis ....
New York ...
Washington
Philadelphia . .
53
56
57
58
5H
53
61
94
569
556
544
536
532
528
496
223
THOUSANDS HOMELESS
FROM FORMOSA TEMBLOR
(Special Cable to Nippu JIJL) -TOKIO,
Japan, Aug. 30. About 700
bouses are reported destroyed and 26 ,
persons Injured or killed In Tester-
"TMMRQ AHF MM " QAVQ
iiiiiiuu nub iiiuuiiUs uwiu
PRESIDENT 1V1TH SMILE AFTER
LONG CONFERENCE 1 CAPITOL
bnactment ot Legislation by oaturday
Nipht Now HoDed to Avert Great
Rail
(Aseeltted Press 8rrlee by redertl Wireless) "-.
WASHINGTON, D. C, Aug. 31v Officials rtoresenting the railway
trotherhoods have agreed to accept as the basis for calling off the strike
the Adamson compromise eight-hour day bill, which has been In substance
: already approved by the president and the house leaders. '
This bill was introduced this afternoon by Chairman William C. Adam
son of the house committee on Interstate commerce immediately after it
had been approved In the outside conferences, and it Is to be passed at
once and sent to the senate tomorrow. :
The senate soon afterwards decided to Introduce a similar measure
tomorrow for Immediate action. It w'll be finally drafted by the Interstate
commerce committee tonight -
Returning from the White House tc the Capitol-this afternoon, the
president called Into consultation the four brotherhood chiefs for another
appeal to delay the strike while Congress. by law provides the concessions
' which the railroads refused them. V; : : ; ' ' :"-
One of the brotherhood leaders admitted that he believes the rank and
file of the men would, in view of efforts of Congress, vote, for a delay If
there was time for them to; express their wishes. A'
WASH INGTON, I), a, Aug. 31. Definite hoi that the nat ion
wide railroad strike will be averted came today when a compromise
was suggested which will be feasible if Congress decides to act at
once. ' ... '-'A- V ''".'-.'"'. -
If Congress will pass a law for a compulsory eight-hour day in
railroad employment; the strike order will be rescinded, say leaders
Of the brotherhoods. ; : . y :,'-:-
After many conferences, yesterday afternoon, last night, and
sary legislation can be passed and most of them favor it under the,
circumstances. ; A, X-AA-.-Ay--y-- v . .. '
' A If it is enacted by Saturday night, the brotherhood represcnta
tiyes'say. there will be sufficient -justification for calling -off 'the
strike. Accbrdinj? to the vote of the 400.000 railway, men and the
strike order as sent out by their central committee, the" men are to
quit work at 7 o'clock Monday morning unless therls a favorable
rettleinent of the controversy. The labor leaders say that the enact
ment of an eight-hour day law will be in the nature vt mch. faroi-abfe
settlement. ''"':"'..:. -; : -.'-:: V s - --;,?
11 This nrosnepr is fhp ninin sonrrp for ontimism frwlv exnressml
today that the threatened great tie-up of railroads will not occur. . .
'. President Wilson held several conferences this morning, first at
the executive offices in i the White House and later at tho Capitol
itself. Here he saw house and senate Democratic leaders.. :.
J Leaving the capitol, he was plainly, jubilant and expressed his
hopes to the reporters who clustered about him. as he emerged.
"I have just been keeping in touch with things to see that they
keep moving, and they are moving," he declared. His face beamed
in a broad smile and it was evident that he is very optimistic as to
ihe outcome. :'A - . ; - - . . , .
The statement of the brotherhood leaders that if the eight-hour
day law is passed, the strike order will be rescinded," led the presi
dent to redouble his efforts to have the measure passed. He is throw
ing all the weight of his influence with the congressional leaders.
No statement was made today by the railroad executives as to
their attitude if the legislation is enacted, though they are known
to be determinedly against the shorter day unless freight rates are
assured of an advance. A- ' : . , . A A,' . ..
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY
' Following are the closing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless:
; Yester-
Today. day.
Alaska Gold ....... i... 13 12
American Smelter . .... 98 9834
American Sugar Rfg.... 110 109'
American Tel; oV Tel... 130 130
Anaconda Copper ...... 84 84
Atchison . . ...... 103 y 102
Baldwin Loco. ......... 78 76' 4
Baltimore A, Ohio...... 85 84
Bethlehem. Steel' .' 481"
Calif. Petroleum ........ 19 18
Canadian Pacific ...... 178 177
C, M. & St. P. (St. Paul) 95 93
Colo.: Fuel & Iron.... .. 48V4 45'
Crucible Steel ......... 75 74
Erie Common .......... 37 35'
General Electric ....... 170 169V2
General Motors ! 575 v
Great Northern Pfd.... 117 116'2
Inter. Harv N. J 114 114 -
Kennecott Copper ..... 49 438
Lehigh R. R... 78 784
New York Central. ..... 103 102';'
Pennsylvania .......... 552 55
Rav Consot. . .......... t25 24'
Southern Pacific ....... 97 97
Studebaker ......... . . . 123'2 1242
Tennessee Copper ..... 25 23'2
Union Pacific 140J4 140
U. S. Steel..:...,...... 97 96's
U. S. Steel Pfd J........ 1 17 117
Utah .... . . ......... 83J4 81
Western Union ........ 94 94
Westinghouse ......... 59J2 58:1
Bid. f Ex-dividend. Unquoted.
A
SUGAR
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., ug. 31.
Sugar, 96 degrees test, cents.
Previous quotation, 4.64 cents.
day's great earthquake on the island
of Formosa. Government authorities
are now investigating - to ascertain
the center of the disturbance, which
is ; supposed to have been on that
Island. The sufferers and honele
now reach to" the thousands.
Tie - Uo
BIG ISLAND CAN GET
PINES FR0M0AHU NOW
Tourists will probably be able , to
enjoy a slice of pineapple with their
breakfast at the Volcano House here
after. The board of agriculture and
forestry passed an amendment .to a
rule at a meeting late this afternoon
that will allow the admission to Ha
waii of pineapples from Kauai. As
soon as the governor has given his ap
proval to the measure it will take ef
fect - ' -
At - present pines from Oahu and
Kauai are barred from the Big Island
because of the existence of a fungus
disease on those two islands.' It is
not as prevalent as it was at the time
the rule went Into effect and is no
longer dangerous to the crops ot the
Big Island.
CHOLERA SPREADS FURTHER
(Special Cable to Nippu Jljl).
TOKIO, Japan, Aug. 30. -New cases
ot cholera ia this city; are increasirs.
The epidemic threatens the districts
of Mlnami-Senja and Naito-ShlnshSkn.
Two new cases were reported yester
day from these districts. :
-f 4 44 4- 4-f4
FIGURES SHOW WHAT BIG
R. R. STRIKE WOULD MEAN
Number of men In
rolved In. eight- ' '
hour demand . 400,000
Total number of era- , ' , .
ployes affected . 2,000,000
Number of Jcmploy- :' ' r: .
es depepilenta af- - 'A.
fected (esUmated) 8,000,000
M Ileage of railroads
Involved ... . ... ; 23711
Number of ' stock-'
holders In roads. . 525,12:
Par value of capital V
stock of railroads
involved . ....;.JS,633S5,3S2
Amount road3 say it
wou!i cost to
Zrt dnands 1CCJ.C
A r-rzerx say
. M C C 1 t a
4"
K
4
4-4-
4-
