1
NIGHT
EXTRA
-vol;, 11.-20. aoi x
$5,000,000 ITEM
TRANSIT SHARE IN
FIRST CITY LOAN
.
tentatively Agreed Upon in
'Conference JBetwen Mayor
and Officials
$20,000,000
BOND ISSUE
lotesbury, Connelly and Wal
ton Discuss Plana of Mu
nicipal Finance
Four to five million dollars for trnnsltwlll
I?. U. iBclutlcil In tho first city loan, It was
tj tiotatlvely ngrcen louay ny mayor nmiin,
f fe T. Stolesbury, City Controller Wnlton
p nd City Solicitor Connelly.
i- Tte f.Ttft loan, " expected, will bo for
i jjo.ooo.ooo.
Only the big items or transit, port nnu
pafkwny camo up for discussion.
The four or flvo millions for transit, live
t six millions for port and Parkway pay
ments of $8,500,0,00 wore tentatively agreed
Kion,-
&
The conference was in no wise conclusive.
m.. M.mr limrtn It rlr.nr tn renortcrs
P, fler tho conference that all was purely
i tentative : that ho had not received final
y estimates from the Department of Wharves,
Docks and Ferries, nnd that all the figures
were subject to 'revision.
By the end of this week he expects to
he all figures and will be able to an
nounce the date of the bond sale.
With Mr. Connolly he discussed tho ad.
visibility of putting tho whole Parkway
cost 'paying for condemned properties In
this first lonn. What conclusion was reached
neither would say. It In probable that tho
'eight and a half millions will not go In
ihl Initial loan, In which caso room would
be made for other planned Improvements.
Before the general conference the Mnyor
talRcl to Assistant Director Hasskarl, of the
Department of Wharves, Docks and Ferries,
and told him fr have Director Webster's
final estimate ready by tomorrow. This
f,t wll be done.
vUtrcciur iwinmE mso was n. preliminary
caller and he estimated tho first transit
needs at from four to five millions.
Tho Pflrkwav nnd ireneral imnrovpmp.nt
ponds will be for thirty years. Tho others,
port anu transit, win uo lor mty years.
Mr, Stotcsbury was called In on account
nt thft fWinnrlnl fl Irl Via rnlllrl irlvp Mllpli on
Addles about the market, etc. '
After tho conference all questioners wcro
referred to the Mnyor.
, Hiram Johnson's majority
' 20,000 OVER orilKaUARD MAN
Progressive Senatorial Candidate Gains
Reins in California
SAN FRANCISCO. Cal.. Aug. 31. Gov
ernor Hiram W. Johnson's majority over
?- Willis Booth for the Republican nomination
for United States Senator will be close
to 20.000. according to returns from 91 per
;i cent of the E413 precincts In the State.
With only 478 precincts missing, John
son's total vote Is 151,39:', against 133,353
for Booth; a plurality for Johnson of 18,040.
The unreported precincts are scattering, and
Ift the Johnson advocates declaro '.hey will
merely Increase the Governor's majority.
The Republican "Old Guard" leaders con
cede the victory of Governor Johnson.
Speculation centerdd on the probable ef-
rj. Kit vi iiiu iiriumi ica uii uiu jtujuuitt;.iii miu
riogressive party convention to no nem in
S-acramento September 19. On that date
the present Republican State Central Com
mittee, which frankly opposed Governor
Johnson's candidacy, will go out of power.
Backers of Governor Johnson declare he
will be able to dominate wholly the coming
Republican convention.
ACCUSED OF EMBEZZLING
MILLING COMPANY'S FUNDS
Investigation Shows Probable Shortage
of $10,000 in Accounts
POTTSVILLE. Pa.. Ausr. 31. George
Young, 35 years old, of this city. Is held
under ball charged with the embezzlement
jvi mnus or tne sortnwestern aiming uom-
viy oi Minneapolis, juinn.
So far as investigation of his accounts
nave gone it Is believed he has embezzled
110,000 within the last two years.
HANGS HIMSELF IN STABLE
-Aged Man, Worrying Over Wife's Ill
ness, Ends His Life
Carl Hoffman. 69 years old, of 36l6
Welkel street, committed suicide In a stable
'in the rear of hln hnniA tndav hv hnmrtner.
According to the nollce. Hoffman, who was
.eoipIoyed as a driver by. 'a bottling con-
iwn, was worrying about his wire, wno
has been 111 for a short time.
lit. Tna body of the aged man was discovered
when he went Into the stable.
HIT BY TRAIN ON WAY TO WORK
Bridgepprt Woman Crushed Crossing
Railroad at Unfrequented Point
NOnmSTOWK. PA. Aug. 31. Mrs.
TuontaB McDonald, of BrldgeporJ, had her
jers crushed by a train at Green and Wash
loton streets today while on her way to fhe
rtorrltown Woolen Mills to work. She at,
tempted to cross the tracks after one train
n-tP"5"1 wnn another one caught her.
"here, Is no watchman where the accident
occurred, as it is not generally used as a
crossing.
THE! WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelnhin. and i)imiVh7.
tTa fair f'V and Friday; not
tnuth change in temperature: moderate,
outhweat winds.
LENGTH OF DAY.
S26 a. m-IMooa rii. . . 7.34 p.m.
6-Jt p.m iMoon nculhj. C;(Hp.m-
f bo rt
" let!
UELAWAUE KIVEK TIDE CUAXGES.
CHESTNUT STBEET.
HUh wr 8 04 ta IHigh tr S .2T p.m
t t0 30jolljiw atcr lO.JJp.ia.
tKMl'EKATl'BK AT EACH IIQUB.
Wi m i fu i.'T ii i i '
Stt? 4t tfl Ml b3l &i sa I
lEtmting
RAIL STRIKE WILL BE AVERTED,
WILSON EXPECTS; MEN WILLING
IF CONGRESS VOTES 8-HOUR BILL
President' Wants Measure Pushed
Through by Saturday Visits Capi
tol and Admits "Progress
Toward Settlement"
Administration-Leaders Plan to Push Measure Asked by
Trainmen and Pass Bill Adding Two Members
to the Interstate Commerce
Commission
President Wilson said this afternoon, after a conference with leaders of
Congress nt the Capitol, that "progress wa3 being made toward a settlement"
of tho railroad strike situation. .
Ho insisted that Congress pas3 an eight-hour day law by Saturday.
This measure, it is planned to attach to the Adamson bill providing for an
increase in tho membership of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Passage of an eight-hour day law by Congress will be acceptable to the
railroad brotherhood lenders, who have set next, Mondny as the day for the
beginning of n country-wide strike.
This statement was made today by A. B. Garrctson, chief of the conductors,
who was the first speaker at the hearing before the Senate Interstate Commerce
Committee.
"As for the question of authority, I could call oft" the strike," Garrctson said.
Senator Newlands, chairman of the Interstate Commerce Committee, an
nounced that no legislation proposed or to be proposed would call for compulsory
arbitration.
President Wilson, when he heard that a strike may be avortcd if Congress
passes the eight-hour law before Monday, called for a conference with the
brotherhood leaders.
W. G. Lcc, trainmen leader, told the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee
the brotherhood representatives in Washington could send a message, "Satisfac
tory settlement," and recall the strike order if Congress passed an eight-hour
law by Saturday midnight.
Philadelphia and other cities nrc beginning to feel effects of the threatened
strike. If the trninmen quit work there will be advances in prices of food and
many articles will go up one-third or more. ,
Railroads all over the country have placed embargoes on perishable freights
and will not accept shipments that cannot be delivered before Monday.
Many lines refused to sell tickets for long trips and thousands of persons
rushed home from their vacations.
LEGISLATION WILL STOP STRIKE,
HOPE OF WASHINGTON OFFICIALS
WASHINGTON', Aug. 31. Administra
tion officials made the confident prediction
this afternoon that the general railway
strike would bo prevented by legislation.
This statement followed a lengthy confer
ence at the Capitol between President Wil
son and ' legislative leaders, and while a
general hearing on the presidential legisla
tive program was In progress before the
Senate Interstate Commerce Committee.
Tho President told members that Informa
tion was at hand showing a 'strike could
be prevented by Immediate action on the
eight-hour proposal suggested to the joint
session of Congress Tuesday. He requested
hearings be speeded up a much as possible
and this action on this measure, together
with passage of legislation covering the
application of the eight-hour day to rail
road operation, be pushed through by Sat
urday. The President appeared at his office, ad
joining the Senate, at 11 o'clock. The Sen
ate Interstate Commerce Committee had
just begun Its hearing.
It was ten minutes before the first of the
committee. Senator Smith (S. C.) saw the
President. He was followed Immediately
by Senator Penrose and Representative
Sherley.
On leaving the conference Senator
Pomerene said: "We talked over legisla
WOMAN'S ASSAILANT
SAVED DESPITE MOB
TORTURE OF SHERIFF
Ohio Officer Shifts Negro From
Jail to Jail, While He Him
self is Hanged to
Pole
APPEAL TO GOVERNOR
UMA, O., Aug. 31. Sheriff Eley. of Allen
County, Is being cared for by physicians ar
Ottawa, 18 miles from here, where he was
rescued by police at midnight from a mob
which sought5 by force to cause him to dls
close the whereabouts of a negro who early
yesterday attacked and nearly murdered
Mrs. John Barber, 21, as she was washing
the breakfast dishes tn her home tnree
miles west of Lima.
Th. ne$ro, captured yesterday when
bloodhounds trailed him from the ecepe of
the crime, was placed in Jail here, but when
a. mob formed about the prison Sheriff Eley
spirited the prisoner away. Upon his re
turn to his residence the mob leaders de
manded to know the whereabouts of the
negro. When he maintained silence Eley
was seized, a rope was torn from the trolley
of a street car. and preparations apparently
were made to hang the Sheriff.
The leaders of the bloodthirsty throng
had thrown the rope, one end of which was
tightly drawn about the sheriff's neck, over
the cross arm of a telephone pole when
suddenly the rope slackened, as If the crazed
men had changed their minds.
Whether the sheriff gave the information
or not, word passed, through the crowd
that the prisoner was In Jail at Ottawa.
Keeping the sheriff bound, the mob seized
an automobile truck and about 30 men
boarded 'It for Ottawa. Five hundred more
members followed Upon reaching- Ottawa
the Lima mob learned that their quarry
had been there but bad been taken away
when word of their comlns-had preceded
them.
Meanwhile, Mayor Bayllss Simpson had
been pleading with the enraged throng to
forsake it quest When he eaw the utter
helplessness of the i-lraa police be tele
phoned Governor Willis that troopa would
be needed to uucJ Ja rilnui,tbiii.v
tion. I am convinced that there wlllbo no
Representatives Swnger Sherley, of Ken
tucky; Majority Lender Kltchin, Repre
sentative Adamson, of Georgia, and Post
master General Burleson were the next to
confer with tlfc President.
"We are trying to get action and prevent
this strike and are hopeful that we will
succeed." said Kltchin uftenvard.
SITUATION" STILL, ACUTE.
It was admitted that the situation still
was extremely acute nnd that a tie-up In
getting the legislation through might nullify
all efforts. But wlun the President left the
Capitol after being there nn hour and
.40 minutes he ndmltted that "progress
toward a settlement" was being made.
The President will meet representatives
of tho brotherhoods this afternoon.
Despite general opposition from the rail
roads, it seems certain that n strong effort
is to be made to pass the bill providing
for an eight-hour day In railroad operation.
To expedite Its enactment, it Is to bs at
tached to the Adamson bill, which already
has passed tho House, adding two members
to the Interstate Commerce Commission.
And In order to nullify the opposition from
tho progressive Senators, who havo alleged
that the President was attempting to
Ccnlliiufd on Pan Sl, Column Two
JOHNSON ELIMINATES
HOWARD V0SHELL IN
FIVE-SET MATCH
Chop-Stroke King Finds Hard
Opponent in Third Round of
National Tennis Tour
nament OTHER GOOD MATCHES
By a BtaJJ Corr ttponteut
FOHEST HILLS, U I., Aug. 31. Wallace
T , Johnson, of Philadelphia, defeated
Howard Vashell In a five-set match In the
third round of the' national lawn tennis
tournament this afternoon. The scores were
6t8, 3-6, 6-1, 9-7, 6.3,
Johnson won the toas for service and
captured the first game from "V'oshell on
four outs, the later scoring his only point
on a fine overhead smash, his favorite shot,
Voshell'a southpaw drives bothered Johnson
In the second game, which the Long Island
champion won after deuce. Voshell broke
through Johnson In the next game and took
the lead at 2-1. '
Voshell double-faulted several times and
Johnson, helped by a net-cord shot that
gave him an Important point, drew on even
terms. But Johnson failed to ret his ser
vice working and Voshell broke through for
another love game.
Invariably Johnson had the better- of the
baseline duels, Voshell scoring most of his
points at the net or on overhead smashes
at mldcourt.
Neither had mueh Buccesa with his
service, as fast as one broke through, the
other returned tho compliment. At 4-3
Voshell finally captured his service and
went ahead a fi.3. Johnson got his severe
serve working at last and was credited with
two clean aces In the following game.
The Quaker drpvo VosheJI to all corners
of the court In the tenth game, forcing
bine latter back from the net with deep
lobs. Breaking through, he took the score
to 5 -a I)
Johnson put himself In a hole at the
tart of the second set by failure to win
1U3 eerve in the opening clash.
There were many long-draw, n-put driving
tonl!ou(d-u rac ThUlcta. iuluiun TIM
I
'FINANCIAL EDITION
PlIILABEL.l'HIA, THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 101G.
NEW $6,000,000
PLANT ADVOCATED
BY WATER CHIEF
"Filter and Pumping Station
Essential to Solution of
Municipal Problem
LOAtf UNDER AMENDMENT
Vcmj System Urged
For Water Reserves
CHIEF DAVIS urges new Miter
and pumping station at Torres
dale. Tho cost is estimated at $6,000,000,
funds for which ,will be provided
by a proposed constitutional amend
ment which already has passed one
session of tho Legislature. Will
mean no increase in tax rate.
New station needed to give bettor
supply, relievo low-pressure condi
tions, and avoid serious fire risk in
some sections of city.
New plant urged for site adjacent
to one now at Torrcsdalc. Its opera
tion to be entirely independent of
one now in use.
Chief Davis says ono serious
accident now would cramp whole
supply of city.
New plant would give city an
adequate and much needed water re
serve for cases of emergency, such
as other cities have.
The building of n new $6,000,000 filter
plant nnd pumping station will be neces
sary In Philadelphia before the water
problem In this city can bo solved effect
ively. So snld Chief Carlcton 13. Davis, of
tho Rurcau of Water, today.
Tho new plant and stntlon are needed.
Chief Davis declared, not only to give tho
city an ample reserve reservoir In case of
emergency iuch as llro or nccldent, but also
to rellove low pressure conditions which are
both dangerous nnd n source of discomfort
In certain sections iot tho city.
Chief Davis's plan, which Is said to have
been viewed favorably by both JIaor
Smith and Director Datesman, calls for the
building of tho plant on a site adjacent to
tho Torresdale plant, which supplies C5 per
cent of the wntcr In this city. Tho new
plant, however, would bo entirely Independ
ent of tho one now In use there and would
have separate pipe lines, thus assuring tho
city n full supply or wnter regaraicss oi
the stations now In operation.
COST IC.000.000
The new plant nnd station would niter
opproxlmately an average of 240,000,000
mr6liB'd!rrr7r,'-l'lieTuwt- cost. Including
tho plpo lines, would not be more than
$0,000,000, Chief Davis said.
Funds for the work would bo provided
through the proposed amendment to the
Slato Constitution, known as No. 4,
which will remove the restrictions that now
govern the city's v Increased borrowing
eppacity The amendment ratliled at the
polls last fall Increased the cltys. borrow
ing capacity from 7 to 10 pe- cint of the
assessed value of taxable proocity in l'iil'
adelphla. but made this mom, available
only for transit and park Improvements.
The amendment pro1ded that as soon as
any permanent Improvement, built by
funds obtained through the Increase in the
city's borrowing capacity, becomes self
sustaining, the cost of the Improvement
shall not be Included In the indebtedness of
the city.
The proposed new amendment will mak
the Increase in the city's borrowing capac
ity available for all Improvements, Includ
ing improvements to the city's water sup.
My system. Tho amendment would ex-
Continued mi Pan Four, Column One
SCORNED LOVER GETS
AWAY; TWO OF GIRL'S
KIDNAPPERS CAUGHT
Mary Navey, Pretty Italian,
Found Safe in Downingtown
After Spiriting Away
in Auto
ABDUCTED IN BRIDGEPORT
NORIHSTOWN, Aug. 31 Mary Navey.
the girl abducted yesterday morning, was
found In Dowlngtown, and two men, Sull
Imalr Scone and Bering Palarucce, who
assisted Posquale Crestone to kidnap the
girl, are In jail here, Crestone escaped.
The pretty, dark-haired maiden with a
smile of sunny Italy reflected In her face,
as she sat In the ofllce of Squire Robertson,
when the two men were arraigned last night,
told of the kidnapping.
"I was walking on Second street near
Mill, Bridgeport, on my way to work when
I saw an auto stop at the curb," she said.
'Two men got out. They stooped as , if
looking a( the machine. When I reached
them they grabbed me and picked me up
bodily and threw me Into the auto. Inside
was. Crestone, whom I had repulsed as a
lover. 1 cried for help. I was ordered to
keep quiet. When we reached the out
skirts 'of Downlngtown the auto stopped,
I was forced by Crestone to get out. He
took me into a house, where he said he had
the day before arranged for a room for us.
When the landlady saw I was unwilling
she refused to gle up the room. Crestone
then took me out on the road and forced
me to go along. A woman and girl assisted
me. When I told her he had kidnapped'
me she sent for help and Crestone fled into
the woods. Shortly after the Bridgeport
police came along and 'brought me home.
"X think the chauffeur should be arrested
for not heeding my cries for help, for he
must have known he was helping these men
kidnap me."
The chauffeur Is a garage helper la
Norristown
The police captured Scone and Palarucce
outside of Dowpingtown on their return
trip and compelled them to direct the way
to where the girl bad been taken.
. Tha girl said that Scone, who is married,
told her ha had ano'.bar tudoappisig to do
next week.
itiiQ?t
QUICK NEWS
COPS' VACATIONS CANCELLED TO PREPARE FdR STRIKE
Superintendent Robinson wns closeted today with the police
heads of tho various railroads. Following the conference, Robinson
sent orders to his captains and lieutenants to cancel the vacations of
every man on tho force. He also ordered that applications for leaves
of absence bo refused from Saturday on, until fuither notice.
HUGHES SENDS CONGRATULATIONS TO JOHNSON
ESTES PARK, Col., Aug. 31. Hepubllcan nominee Hughes to
day sent a telcgiam of congratulation to Governor Hiram Johnson
on his success In winning the Republican nomination for United
States Senator.
AVIATOR EENDRICK SOARS OVER SANDY HOOK
NEW YORK, Aug. 31. Aviator Xendrlclt, flying from Atlantic
City to Now York and return, was reported over Sandy Hook at a
height of 3000 feet today, headed for New YorE.
SENATE VOTES FOR BRITISH EMBARGO RETALIATION
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31. The Senate this afternoon unani
mously adopted an amendment offered by Senator James, of Ken
tucky, to the emergency revenue bill empowering the President to
retaliate to I'xxc British embargo against tobacco shipments into Ger
many and Austria.
GERMANY PROTESTS AGAINST TREATMENT OF PRISONERS
BERLIN, Aug. 31. The German Government has sent a vig
orous protest to tho Russian Government against the barbarous treat
ment of war prisoners, threatening reprisals unless a satisfactory
, answer is received.
MARKET'S ACTION CAUSES SATISFACTION
NEW YORK, Aug. 31. While the majority of the stocks in tho trading on tho
New York Stock Exchange this morning were established at generally lower levels,
interests concerned In Wall street affairs wore "very much pleased with tho action
of the mnrket. In view of the prevailing conditions, especially the threatened rail
road strike. Railroad stocks sold down only fractionally, tha greatest losses bclrjs
In a few of the specialties nnd the war industrials. Marine common and preferred
sold nt new top marks. When news canWtrom Washington around midday that
tho President and leaders of tho House had high hopes of Initiating legislation that
would delay the striko order, even if It does not altogether relievo" the "tension, tho
mnrket Jmrdpned, prices moving up all around. In many case3 stocks sold above
the llnal of yesterday for gains of a point and more. The market closed strong,
with United States Steel common selling within a fraction of Its high record price
of 3D38. Extra dividends by copper companies w'as a helpful factor.
PRICE OF HOGS HIGHEST TODAY SINCE CIVIL WAR
CHICAGO. Aug. 31. Hogs Jumped 10 cents to the highest level since 18C5 on
tho Chicago Live Stottc Exchange tqday, when choice hogs were quoted at $11.40 a
hundred pounds. The railroad embargo on live stock was responsible for the gain.
Cattle were up unevenly, with the top price at $11.35 for beeves. Sheep sold strong
at prices from 10'to 10 cents higher.
Tho Board of Trade received reports that "the railroad strike situation looked
more hopeful" shortly before noon today, and on this Information there was a sharp
rally in wheat. Price's rose 2 to 3U cents in a few minutes.
PEACE MEETING PROHIBITED IN BERLIN
AMSTERDAM. Aug. 31. The Frankfurter Zeltung says that the meeting of
Socialist electrical unions of Greater Berlin proposed for yesterday, when Deputy
Ilaaso intended to speak on peace, was prohibited.
PRESIDENT DICE'S CONDITION STILL UNCHANGED
The condition of Agnew T. Dice, president of the Reading Railway, this morning
was unchanged. He spent a comfortablo night In his homo at Atlantic City. In
order that his recovery muy not be retarded by business cares, his physician has
ordered that nil Information on such matters be kept from him. Mr. Dice's condi
tion is due largely, It is believed, to nervous tension over the railroad situation.
GERMANY ADMITS U-BOAT FIRED ON OWEGO
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31. Germany's reply to the inquiry of the United States
regarding the circumstances surrounding the firing on the steamship Owcgo with
Americans on board, off the Isle of Wight early this month, was iceelved by thei
State Department today. Germany admits that the Owego was fired on by a Ger
man submarine, but Insists that this was due to the action of the i-nptaln of the
freighter in refusing to stop his ship when a warning shot was fired across his
bows.
MAYFLOWER TO TRANSPORT MEXICAN DELEGATES
WASHINGTON, Aug, 31. President Wilson today ordered the presidential
yacht Mayflower to be ready to take the members of the American-Mexican Joint
commission from New York city to Portsmouth, N. H next week, where they are
to hold their conferences. The Mayflower will take the commissioners on board
following their preliminary meeting at the Biltmore Hotel in New York on Monday,
.when they are to make final arrangements for their meetings.
PLENTY OF COAL AT NAVY YARD; OTHER YARDS SHORT
Olllclals at the Philadelphia Navy Yard are not worrying over the prospective
railroad Btrlke, as there are about 700,000 tons of coal on hand at the yard enough
to last from three to four weeks. The situation is more serious at other naval sta
tions along the Atlantic coast, according to advices today from the Navy Depart
ment at Washington. Most of these stations have only a 14-day supply of coal,
and if the strike should last for two weeks they would face a coal famine, -
ALLIED STEAMSHIPS BLOWN UP IN FINNISH HARBORS
COPENHAGEN, Aug. 31. The newspaper Dagensvyheter says that recently a
number of merchant ships belonging to the AJHes have been blown up In Finnish
harbors by bombs placed upon them by escaped Austrian prisoners. Two steam
ships were thus blown up at Oleaborg and five at Jacobstadt.
, BANKS SUBSCRIBE TO NEW GERMAN WAR LOAN.
BERLIN, Aug. 31. The Agricultural Central Loan Bank has subscribed
$15,000,000 of the new German war loan, and the Savings Bank or Eterfeld has
subscribed 12,215,000, It was announced.
COPPER ORE FOUND IN TWO UPSTATE COUNTIES
NEW BALTIMORE, Pa., Aug. 31. Farmers between this place and Buena
Vlsto, In Bedford County, are excited by the discovery of , copper ore on the F O.
Fochtman farm, near here. Samples of the ore have been sent to the United States
geologist, the State geologist and chief chemist of a steel company In Johnstown.
Each analysis shows 17 tp 22 per cent pure copper.
USUAL FALL COAL ADVANCE EFFECTIVE TOMORROW
Coal prices advance 10 cents a ton tomorrow, as Is usual on September I. The
advance, however, compared with a year ago. represents 35 to 45 cent boosts on
soma sixes Chestnut coal will be.fS a ton, 40 cents more than, last winter. Stove
coal will be $7 75, a 35-cent advance, and pea. coal J3.75. a 40-cent advance. Some
dealers will wait till October X before adaacui?.
CofTxtaiiT, 1010, m inn rnr.Lio Lkkckr Comtant.
NIGHT
EXTRA
VRICJ& ONE CENT
TEUTONS FLEJT
BEFORE BLOWS
OF RUMANIANS
Invading Forces 30 Miles In
side Attstro-Hungarian
Territory
RUSSIANS AID IN DRIVE
Six Important Passes Now in
Ilnnds of Now
Ally
BERLIN, Aug. 31. Rcporia that
Turkey has declared war on Rumania
were confirmed in Constantinople dis
patches this afternoon. The Turkish
Council of Ministers voted a declaration
of war Tuesday.
BUCHAREST, Aug. 31. Russian
troops nrc crossing the Dobrudjn dis
trict of Rumania, the War Office an
nounccd today. The Russians were en
thusiastically received.
As Dobrudja comprises the eastern
most part of Rumania, it is evident that
the Russians troops in1 question arc not
tn reinforce the Rumanians fighting on
the Hungarian border, but are to bo
used for a drive against Bulgaria or for
n campaign in Serbia.
BERLIN, Aug. 31. Rumania has
asked the United States to take over
Iter interests in Germany. Ambassador
Gerard today transmitted to tho State
Department at Washington the request
of the Rumanian Minister.
BERLIN, Aug. 31. The Austrian
General Staff plans to evacuate all
southeastern Transylvania to the Ru
manians in order to shorten the Aus
trian lines, the Austrian newspapers an
nounced today.
BERLIN, Aug. 31. An Austrian
flotilla operating on the River Danube
shelled and destroyed Rumanian trans
port magazines and military establish- ,
ments near Turnu Scverinu and Giur
gcro and on the lower Danube, said an
official statement -from-Vienna today.
The Austrians captured two Rumanian
tugs near Zimnica and two motorboats.
LONDON, Aug. 31. Only artillery
duels on the Doiran and Struma River
fronts were reported in the War Office
report today on operations in the Bal
kans. '
LONDON, Aug. 31.
Rumanian troops have advanced 30 miles
Into Hungarian territory, driving the Aus-tro-Hungarlans
before them In wild flight.
Dispatches from Bucharest say that Aus-tro-Hungarlans,
In their retreat, abandoned
mountain passes, villages and mountain
fortresses to the victorious troops of KIny
Ferdinand. ,
Six Important passes In the Transylva-
nlati Alps are In the hands of the Ru
manians and Russians, some of which were
taken without a struggle.
An engagement developed when the
Austro-Hungarlans tried to defend Ojtos
Pass, but the Rumanians carried It bjr
storm nnd are advancing on Kezdl
Vosarhely. nn Important railway town.
The Rumanians have taken more than
1000 prisoners so far in their drive.
The greatest advance was made by the
Rumanian forces that carried Tomos Pass
and swept onward to the Gyorgy Moun
tains, northeast of Kronstndt.
It Is belived here, from tho latest otilclat
report of the Rumanian War Office, that
the two Important Hungarian cities of
Kronstadt and Hermannstadt are In ths
hands of the Rumanians.
The Austro-Hungarian gene.rals are try
ing to re-form the Transylvanlan army, and
from rearguard actions an engagement of
major dimensions Is developing.
Violent artillery duels have 'developed at
some points on th" tattle front, par
ticularly north of Orsova. aJ
RUMANIANS OCCUPY NINE t
IIUNflARIAN TOWNS ANU
VILLAGES, ROME SAYS
ROME, Aug- 31
Nina Hungarian towns and villages, in
cluding four with populations of more than
8000. and Kronstadt, the most Important
commercial city pf Transylvania, have been
captured by the Rumanians in the first
threa days of a sweeping Invasion through
the Transylvanlan Alps.
A semiofficial statement Issued at Vienna,
and received here from Berne today, admits,
that the Rumanians are attacking with
exlraord'nary vigor on a 375-tnlle front.
The pressure Is strongest at the Hungarian
town of Orsova, near the Serbian frontier,
where Rumanian artillery has ceaselessly
bombarded the Hungarian positions sines
the declaration of war.
Tho Austr an are hastily evacuating the
extreme southeastern corner of Tranayl
anla. The Rumanians captured the village
of Podia. Csukas. Callyanos and Gylutuvi.
encountering only feeble resistance.
Pressing westward from these towns Itu.
manlan troops entered Jloemfalu (a town of
Continued en l'u Four. Column Te
Wall Street Offers 1 to ?
Against Strike on Monday
NEW YORK, Aug. 31.
BROKERS on Wall Stmt today
offered 1 to that thegre would
be no railroad strike Monday wl
it was reported several fair-v4
bets were mad st thM whh.
