ix Your Own Car
ucrrlich, in the Sunday T.-D.
Will Tell You Ilow
VOI.UMK ??
'No-Lapse in News
T.-D. Only Richmond Paper
With 7-Day Ay P. Service
TWELVE PAGES.
I'AiiM :t
? EA1R
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
WENTY-FIVE NIILES
INTO TRANSYLVANIA
?oops Reported at Point
> Within Three Miles
of Kronstadt.
IGAGED WITH AUSTRIANS
IN GYERGYO MOUNTAINS
akharest. in Ultimatum to Bul
garia, Will Demand Evacu
ation of Serbia.
JItKIO V AT WW It ON K< H'.M.X NIA
|((|e Activity, Kxcept l?y Aiifllory,
on Part of Any of llclllucr
ents in \V?,4?t.
nf tho
moun
ll.ONPON. August -?* Roumanians
Ivasion of Austro-llungarian torri
eonlitiues in ' ho mounts inous
[glon from l'ctroxscny. on the rail
northcast "f "rsova. the
fergyo Mountains, eighty miles north
Kronstadt
|On the Dnnubp. from tin- Iron Gato
fJlurp^v'i, opposite llusifluili. Bul
\ria, there have l>e?-n rfilprociil bom
?rdmRn?* Kt K?vf?! poln ? - to \ustro
lunRarlau wariTiift and Roumanian
|iore battci'lf! "> >!?? i ? i ??? 11 ii nii'i .i
?>stile. aeroplane lisve dropped bombs
li tho Hon ma i ? ' ?' ?P ?1 ?
1 Auk* rla's ai?!? now ledk?*i"?*n'
tirement of her fort on in tin
Linous region t- previously prepared
losltions in tin- '? >' " fo'lowed
claims h> Rom tania mat tlx troops
King Ferdinand havi arrived at a
l>int within tin.- i I- "f Ki-nstadt.
Iio chief commercial ? '?> of Itansjl
lanla. Viet-i thai tho Rou
manians are ? - ed * ' n the Anstro
[ung&riun for? ? Gyergyo Moun
Itlns. wl?l. t. 1 ' ?' ",f ">'?
Testevnf front ?! Rouinanla hostile
|>rocs lia v ?? I ii v a?l? <1 Transy Ivanla somo
Kvont v-iin ? hi ' ' ' Roumanians
Ire also near K* ? ? ~ -Vasaln :>. about
jrty miles northeast of Kronstadt.
JOUJIAM V 31AV m-:m>
I I.TIMATl'M ro III I.GAMIA
While Bulgaria has not entered into
lb hostilities against Roumania. a
lews agency dispatch fays Roumania
las decided t<< sutid an ultimatum to
Itiilgaria. demanding the .eval uation of
lcrltin. A dispatch Inrn I'uintaiitino
lie reports thai Turkey lias declined
|.ar on Ilouina:. ?
In the Macedonian ihoater violent
|:i;hting continues ?? ?? ii tin- ??ntente
Lilies' siinl th- Au-tlo-Gei mi.n forces
Lltd Bulgarian:-. I'.iris claim-' that t..
[lie west of the Vardar Riv< r the
re.ncli have gained additional ground.
Lnd that in tho l.ake '.sirovo region
J lie Serbs l a - repulsed attacks ly
|he Bulgarian? On tin- Struma rront,
liear Holran. batten's th* entente
Lowers have violently . Ii?-1????! i.ulgar
|an position.-.
Drama. i? Northeast Greece. has
jieen seised by the Hulearlans. after
I'kllRlit with Uro l troops, i.ccordiiig to
V/nollicia I advices received in 1'uris.
f.\n Albanian oeiachmei.t under lis sad
li'asha. once c.ommamlei of the Turkish
llrst arn-v, has arrived at Sal-.-t.iki to
|iid tho c it? nt?? I? ?
No ofilelal move had yet been made
Iby Orce'oo to n.-.-i t d.-mand -.f that
Iparl of her population headed by for
liner Trier- \oni/.<ios thai I'.rcece join
Itho entente allies, but an unofficial
Idlspatch from .Athens says the remo
Ihilization of the Ureek army is under
?consideration.
Iom.v aiitii.m:h\
I)., i> \nm; in ?i>T
Kxcepl for an cMi-k.-iou ot ilie l?rit
|isii lines south of -Mart inpuich, ;>n ihe
[sommc front in France, there has l?-*n
[little activity excejjt by artillery on tho
[part of any of the belligerents on tho
Jwostern battle lino, where Inclement
[weather still prevails.
lilkewlee on tlio front in Russia
and Galicia there have been no Import
ant changes in f.ositions, although in
Hie Carpathian region the Kussians
have cap to red ranker Mountain, on the
Hungarian border, and the village of
Jtafalov, on the HystrlUa-Nadvorna
Jtlver, near the border.
In the fighting between Turks and
}Kussinns in Asia Minor and on tho
Porsian front both sides claim minor
successes.
ItOl'MAXIA.NS MAKI-! IMtOtJIlKSS
IX ?'UOSSI\(i OK l-'HONTIlOIt
BUKHAR1CST. August 29 (via Lon
don. August :t 0 >.?Roumanian troop.?
have n\jide progress in their crossing
of the A us tro-Hungarian frontier, and
have reached several points, including
a village east of Kronstadt. says an
official statement given out by the Rou
manian War Olllco to-ilay. More than
730 prisoners already have been taken.
The statement follows:
"On tho western and northern fronts,
Roumanian troops crossed the Austro
Hungarlan frontier during the night of
the 27th. and. after fairly lively
Aliting, reached numerous points, in
(Vuil i ii g Mount Kn gat/.el ii. northwest of
Nyergpo; Kissepeiea Hill, west of
(iyerg.vo and the village of llosse/.iifalu,
four kilometers (iihout three miles) east
of Kronstadt (Brasso). dnr artillery
fired on Orsova, destroying a petroleum
depot. Our Fourth Army ("orris has
taken seven ollicers and 7IH men pris
oners.
"An armed enemy tug opened fire on
Turnu Severln, hut. retired to Orsova
under fire of our batteries. Austro
Hnngarian monitors opened fire on
1 Giurgevo, but were compelled to re
tire by our artillery."
KING OF GH1CKGIC RKI'OHTIOl)
1\ FMG11T TO I.AItlSOA
V LONDON, August .10.?Th? HrltiKh
^reH? representative at Saloniki sends
report which Is current there that
['ivlng Constantino of Greece has fled
to'Larissa, In Thosaaly, to take-refuge
(Continued on Socond Pago.)
Ohio Mob Starts
to Hang Sheriff
lie Is I'orccd to Dircct Men to
Hiding Place of Negro
Wanl.d for Assault.
I.I.M OHIO, AukiisI ? Knraged jit
the success of Sheriff Slwrinan Kley
in t<-piriting Pltnrles Daniels. a negro,
lu'cucpil of assault ing Mrs. John Par
her, young wife <.,f a prominent farmer,
out of their leach this a ft er noon, a
inol. ca |>l it re<| Die sheriff. serlously
wounded ])im. placed a noo.se around
hi* neck, and forced hint to direct a
cortege of 100 armed m? 71 into the
1'oukIi country north of this city, wIiqi
it is supposed tie* negro prisoner lias
! been hidden. The rnoli with Sheriff
Kley was not located f?t n late hour.
The mob formed around the l.itna
Jail before dusk, and leaders demanded
admittance. Chief of Police Kinney
called out his entire force, lint the
! officers were overpowered in a hand
to-hand light. It was announced that
the negro has been taken by Sheriff
Kley to Hi* Ohio .State Hospital for the
I'ritnlnal insane. Kofusitin to ao.-ept
the announcement th ? mob forced Mrs.
Kley to open l!ie cells.
Sheriff Kley relumed at :t;|0 o'clock
and.wa.s met l.v the mob at the city
limits. They demanded that he de
liver the prisoner or tell where he was
hiddrri. I fie he riff reached his r??st
Iruro and refuser) tCI ?lv." up the negro.
IIk- n.ob then broke in the front door
hb'.v <hj af'il tlirouvh a re.-r en
t v ?'* -alit when entering
:h ?-lk> Hi.mi- a 11, t attacked His
doth* s were stripped from his bodv,
an.I he was bati.-i.d ,,,d kicked |,y the
mob. A tope was taken from the trol
ley of a street car. and the noose placed
about his neck
Il.t I.K-t \CONM IOI S i|.\\
kin \|.l.v ?j| ItltKMIl-JIH
After half an hour of torture and
insults th<. h.ilf-uncouscious man sur
rendered. He was taken to a waiting
motor truck, which formed tl). head
of ih,.- procession of autoMob'.les. tnt<_.
which the mob climbed. The proces
sion ' Ii e n left the city at high speed.'
While the m0I1 held Kiev a i ris
oner. .-hief of Pohc. Kinnev called
upon citizens to Join his force, but waa
refused. The. tiro department waa
called out. hut arrived just as the
mob was starting away. The motor
" trueks were run three abreast down
he struts, throwing chemicals on
thoKA of the mob that had not Joined
tlx* motor procession, and the men on
foot were dispersed.
It la understood that the ?IOb was
'"I by a l,anil of fa.-ncis from t,,e vi
? r"v nf ,.y ho)n
u here the assault occurred earlv Ih?s
w m" MrS- r,:,r,'?r wa*
with a razor and be ,ten into uncoti
scmusnes. ,t t?oulrht |hnt she
I If 1 1! , l'00'i,> "f with
bloodhotiuds caught th- n-crn Daniels
n a woods h, the same township later
in the morning.
t.?>Vi:UNoit At TllOlt l/.KS
'rito<?i'.s ik \i;ri:ss\uv
?P.MRPK. ' M I H?, August
Wioi- WillfH to-hicht authorized Adju
nnt-tleneral llou,,, IO ,rritnL.0
t an,poruU?n lo Lima of companies
the First Regiment of Cincinnati
or Ma".",,!;
? t tional fiiinrd. now stationed at Cam,,
Perry, inj^nse they are required. '
PROMOTIONS ON S. A. L.
Ihtinues fll o?ernl|?c Departm*nf An
n011 need l,r <;e?er?| Manager-, '
Om<-r In .Norfolk.
?Vf'!? Ktd.k". \'A.. August .in.?Promo
th,'"v ..'T department of
. e. mi, ,? ,\ir Kine were announced
. ie general manager's office hero
to-day j,s follows:
' ? s I'at ton, at present master me
chanic at savannah, fin , has been pro
moted to superintendent of the \la
bama dlvislm. with headquarters
franafa S,ICCP0ding ? "? Teague.
transferred to the Florida division as
rZTlTU- WUh at
??I,I" u' <;r"flon- BOtieral foreman of
master0|T ?l ftI:i"la- Ga?? ?l>l>ointed
slaith , " '.? Ule Alabama .and
South ? arolma divisions, with head
cpiarters at Savannah.
s Af. I.utton is appointed terminal
trainmaster. with headquarters at
Savannah. He is now general vard
mnster. and the position of terminal
trainmaster ix a new one.
STRIKE TO HIT NEWSPAPERS
SInny Will He Forced .S?spe,,?l ?
Walkout of Itulirond Men Con
(hiucH for Two Week*.
vnvdTorin 3*h" ?p,n,e?-Olf?,?aU,h. I
.M.W 10R I\. August 30?A very
large number of the daily newspapers
?>r the United Slates will he forced to
suspend publication if a nation-wide
railway strike continues for two weeks
Lincoln 1}. Palmer, manager of the
American Newspaper Publishers- As
sociation, declared this afternoon.
"The print paper situation is acute
from causes entirely outside the prob
lem of transportation," said Palmer
Many publishers are on a hand-to
mouth basis. getting a carload from
I ?c null just as they ?re exhausting
the corioad on hand."
COURT ENJOINS STRIKERS
Order to Itenlmln ItnlMvny Co
Kroin C11 lining Walkout 011
I'nlnn Pncltle,
tvViKA,.IA' NKn" Al,R,,st 30.?Judge
Willis I-,. Sears, of the District Court
of Ilouglns Pounty. to-day Issued an
order restraining the general and
local) officials of the Order of nallway
Conductors calling or enforcing a
strike on the lines of the Union Pacific.
The order was Issued on petition of
Kdv* in A. Hamilton, a conductor on the
I.Men 'Pacific, and a member of the
Order of Railway Conductors, who de
clares thai, he and many other em
ployees aro anxious to continuo at
work.
JOBBERS PREPARE
FOR RAIL TIE-UP
Local Hands Work Night and
Day to Ship Goods Before
Embargo Falls.
URGENT TELEGRAMS POUR IN
Buyers Wire Frantically for Im
mediate Shipment, Fearing
Prolonged Delay.
Publi. excitement. due t ?> the ini
: pending st rike of the railroad hrother
, hoods, ? .rdered f,,r September t. has
i brought im wholesale dealers iti f!irh
moiid l?*tt.?r ami telegraphic orders re
j questing shipment of supplies con
, 11 act ed f*ir several months airo nn or
jbefore p.-vt M (tid.'.y. v. ;ion, accordiui;
i to the spokesmen of the intending
strikers-, the tie-up of the railroads ;
Will hep in.
1 lie r 'iiievts for earlier shipment
? ?oi:ic from retailers in Virginia. West
\irgini:i. tlw two Carollnas, 'icorgia.
Alabama and parts of Florida. The
j supplies asked for are not confined
j to any one branch of trade. The com
modities range from elnthing to food
Muffs. There is a general fear, as in
dicated by the reports received by all
classes* of wholesale dealers, that a
? "trike will coine. and preparedness is
I th'i m?? nera 1 slogan
fn addition to tl.<><-?? firms which have J
received orders for in mediate ship
ments. others have taken time by the
forelock, themselves hurrying forward
tne carrying of their gords. One nouse
has doubled its force, in order to ship
to comply with urgent d'.- nands: an
other. with insufficient sto k to supply
the demand made upon it. Is itself ask
ing from the manufacturer immediate
delivery, and a. third, fearing that it
will not he able to meet demand, is
i l>rcparin^ t*> c'jrtail cufront expenses.
As ri rii 1 ?. t}ic* wholesale cloalrrs, while*
1 realizing Ui.it the impending situation
i i- serious, are hoping that the efforts
j of the President and proposed action by
| < 'oiiLrress will avert a strike which all.
i with significant tinanimity, declare will |
he worse than a state of war and cause
loss it will take years to retrieve.
STOCK OK STAI'I.KS WIl.I,
HI V OUT l.Y TKX II.v VS
The Kra\ ity of the situation was
j nowhere minimized, it being the con
j sensus of opinion tti.it the staples now
| In Richmond and to he expected before
j the strike goes into effect will be ex
hausted within ten days after the rail
' road tie-up begins.
AIread> the Cary Street market is
affected. I.aiubs and veals are bring
ing more than t lu y ha\e done witiiin
the last fifty years. There is a short
age in calves, and meats are being
| bought up by retailers and domestic
I consumers as rapidly as possible.
Butchers, excited by the upward trend
j of ttie market and the fear that they
I will he cut off from further supply
I by the threatened strike, are purchas
ing in double quantity.
The head of one large wholesale
{ house yesterday directed his foreman
i to buy up $'_\00i) worth of staple
products to be resold at cost to his
employees.
"if the strike comes and the rail
roads ?.re tied tip.'1 he said, "the cost
| of food supplies will increase. There
'will ie tt shortage, and 1 haveordered
| n y forei.iati to buy flour cud other
j r.rfi cssities so my empl >y->.s will not
be put to extra expense whin the local
market is cut ??it." The flour mills in
Minneapolis. .Minn., whence comes a
fireat deal of Richmond's supply, have
Issued a warning that they will close
down thci.* rillls thirty minutes after
the beginning' of the strike. The mills
have no storage capacity for a surplus
supply.
COMMISSION MKIUHA.NI'S
A I'I'lO.t I, TO Tit I'CK Kit S
One of ih'i largest commission mer
(hants on Car.v Street received yester
day afternoon a letter from one of his
buyers, saying, "I want you to take
care of me in poultry and eggs if any
thing h tppens." The commission mer
chant was at fie time dictating letters
. to truckers and farmers, asking them
j to ship ir their products immediately,
j "The sitnat'on is serious." he stated,
j and if i lie strike really becomes ef
. f.-ctive smuI ?he railroads are tied up,
Kiehmond will be in an awful predica
ment. There are enough staples to
supply the city for only ten days.
After that the deluge?a deluge of
sausage, salt meat and cold storage
eggs."
William C. Rowers, of the firm of
Strause Brothers (Jo., Inc., wholesale
drygoods dealers, said that lie had re
ceived telegraphic requests from the
linn's trade to ship all orders imme
diately. .Mr. Powers added that if the
company was unable to make ship
! mom. the buyers could countermand
the orders and thus throw hack the
goods on the firm. This would in
evitably lead to a curtailment of ex
penses by cutting down the working
force.
<*I.STUMKltS \\ III10 KOIl
IM >1 101)1 ATK SHIP 11 K.N TS
?M. M. Anderson, president of the firm
of the Anderson-Lewis-Gray Co., Inc.,
wholesale dry g.oods, staled that he had
received requests from buyers in Vir
ginia, West Virginia, North and South
Carolina. Georgia and parts of Florida,!
asking that the fall orders he delivered
i immediately. K. B. Sydnor, president
of tlie Richmond Dry Goods Company,
has issued orders, he stated, that art
shipments lie sent out before Septem
ber 1, so as to nive the railroads op
portunity to deliver before Monday
morning, if possible.
"We have, many orders to be de
livered before September 1." said Mr.
Sydnor, "and a large quantity of
goods is now packed for shipment on
that date. If we are not able to ar
range for (Jie carrying of our goods, it
will be a serious matter."
W. II. Miles, of the \V n Miles Shoo
Company, Inc., though lie lias received
only one requost from an alarmed
buyer for Immediate delivery, said ho
(Continued on Second I'age.)
ROADS PREPARING
TO OPPOSE STRIKE
Seeing No Hope of Settlement,
Gather Their Forces for
Eventualities.
GIVE NOTICE OF EMBARGOES
E. P. Ripley's Summary of Situ
ation Intensifies Pessimism
Felt Over Outcome.
?'It l< 'Afli ?, August I!" Throughout
the entire country to-day the rail
roads. greaI and small. gathered their I
forces to oppose the strike si-i for next
Monday.
The undercurrent ,,r feeling reported
at Wushl ngton lliat the catastrophe
would yet be averted was not re Hoc ted
here among railroad men. A summary
of the situation made hv 10 I". Ilipley.
president of the Atchison. Topekit and
Santa l-'e. who u.ts a. member of the
committee which conferred with Presi
dent Wilson, as spokesman for railroad
presidents who returned tins afternoon
from the conferences ;it the national
capital, intensified the pessimism felt
here.
.Mr. ftlpley asserted that the rail
roads can now see no hope of a set
tlement. before l.ah>r Pay. and are
making every preparation for event
ualities. ?
Practically evciy important railroad
in the country gave notice of embar
goes. or was preparing to give them.
They affect, perishable freight and live
stock. which at present constitute
about one-third the freight (radio on
Western roads, and passengers. Agents
everywhere were instructed to warn
passengers of probable delays and not
to accept any perishable freight which
could not normally be delivered before
September 1. In some cases the date
was set for Saturday, the -d. or Sun
day.
it.\ii.ttoAi) nmnu.s
ll\CK \\\SU|M.M)\
The party of high railroad ollicials
| who came back to I'lucago to-da\ in
cluded Mr. Ilipley. who was chosen
spokesman: W. !>. Storey and 10. 1 ?.
Sewall. \ ice-presidents of the Santa
l-'e; A. J. Karling. president of the
Chicago. .Milwaukee and St. Paul: \V.
J. Jackson, receiver for the < "hit-ago
and Kastern Illinois; II. II. Aishton,
president of the Chicago and North
western; II. R. Kurric, president of the
Monon; bonis W. Kill, president of the
Creat Northern; Georgo T. Slade. vice
president of the Northern Pacific, ind
W. (.!. Uierd, president of the Chii(igo
and Alton.
Mr. Ilipley gave out three state
ments. The first statement was issued
formally as the expression of the party
which returned from Washington; the
second was addressed to employees of
the Santa l-'e, and warned those who
might obey the strike order that they
would lose all rights of seniority and
of benefits from insurance and pension
funds. T'lie third was Mr. Ripley's
plan for meeting the strike and an
analysis of the railroad's side of the
controversy.
There wan some difference of opin
ion. he said, among the odicials when
they first arrived at Washingtont as
j to what course to pursue, but they
became- absolutely unanimous when
requested to abandon arbitration.
He said that attempts would be made j
to keep at least one passenger train
on each run, and 'hat preference would
next iie given perishable freight.
PI'ItMC AVI I.I. III*. SIltlMtlSKI)
at m miii-:it or i.oa ki. mi-:v
He expressed the opinion that, the
public would Ik- surprised at the num
ber of tnen who would remain loyal to
their employ er.-.
legislation proposed by President
Wilson, he said, "seems not only obvi
ously reasonable, but obviously neces
sa r.v."
"The managers of the railroads." he
stated, "will proceed upon the assump
tion that the strike will come on
I-abor Day. and will prepare to act
accordingly.
To this end the presidents will meet
at the Chicago Club to lay their plans.
Said Mr. Kipley:
"The public is naturally concerned
as to how serious the strike actually
will prove to be and as to how long
it will last. It would be futile to
make any predictions regarding these
matters now. The public may rest
assured, however, that the manage
ments will make the most strenuous
endeavors to maintain enough service
to prevent actual suffering, and I hope
and believe we will be able to do this.
Our efforts will be directed primarily
to keeping passenger, mail and express
trains moving. We shall try to run
at least cue such train a day. Prefer
ence next will be. given to trains car
rying perishables, and all kinds of ser
vice will be increased as rapidly as
practicable. We will know a great
deal better next Monday night tha i
we do now how serious the strike will
be. and will be able to estimate much
better than now liow long It will last.
Only when the matter is put to the
actual test will we know how many
of our train employees will remain
loyal. We believe the number who
Will refuse to go out will be far
larger than leaders of the brotherhoods
anticipate. The men generally were
given to undeistand when the strike
vote was taken that it would be used
merely as a threat, ami when they
IInd they have been misled many of
them probably will refuse to quit
work."
KV 10II v mm; of imh stim
mux ii i-:i> at phospioit
Associated Press dispatches from all
parts of the country to-day reflected
the shock felt by every line of indus
try at. the prospect of the strike. Iti
terurban lines, it was said, weuld use
every available ear. but the greatest
extension of their facilities, it was
realized, would go but a iiitle ways
toward relieving congestion. Motor
' (.Continued on Second Pago.)
Millions of Persons
May LoseTheir Jobs
Almost Immediately
Feverish Efforts Are Made
to Precent Complete Pa
ralysis of Traffic in
Event of Stride.
N'Kw Y< ?RK. a ugust ?:!(> Rcprcsenta -
ti\cs ?.f w Vock ?'lt> *aiul its v:< -
rious industries were making feverish
<ffoits to-night in prevent a complete
paralysis ?? f traffic in I ho event of a
1 li ira i cued tm t ion - w idc railroad strike
Millions of pcimiiH. li was estimated,
max he thrown out (>f work almost im
i-d lately ii Mil1 .strike li'H-oihcs a
alil ?
i
Witli the tying tip of the r? i* roads,
| s!,' 'i?i- hip sfi vi.-.. ,,iit or Now York
ami oth< ? Aiiici'lcan ports, particularly
f?? j u li t 11 ,i Hi if, virtually would in- ;it a
I .standstill. w;ls ji.linltu-.l |.y repre
j son tat Ives of .steamship lines." It was
j rt-irarded as douhtrul whether Kuropean
freight traflie would he able to con
[ tiline any length of time.
<"oastwi.se shipping lines announced
that as a result of the railroad freight
etr.ha rgo they will he unahle to .ur
1 ept freight except for terminals and
points wuIcli can he reached hv watt-,
Ofllcial notices to this effect ' wiII he
Issued to-morrow.
kiiit vit<;oi-:s iia vi-: si-:iuot *
KKKI-JI T ON <-|)M Ml-ntfl-:
Km ba I'uocs declared h> th* varl
ous railroads already are bavin-; a se.
nous effect on commerce, it was said,
"ii.- of the most serious problems th?
steamship lines are racing is possible
shortage or hunker coal Ship agents
say mat the reserve supplv in xew
?ork and vicinity is not sufficient to
carry the demand over any long period.
th? supply companies depending in the
mam on daily shipments by rail from
? no mines.
M bile there has been accumulated in
inanv of the terminals here suttleienl
cargo to load ships now in port, vessels
on their way here u nd..ubte.ll v will
V" "'"""Hate shortage of cargo.
(,oss '? '"anufacturers. shipowners
charterers am] labor, it was said, would
be tremendous.
Thousands ;,r manufacturing con
|'<n.s ihrouBhout the country which
"Ue h*'e" --"PPlying the warring ra
tions abroad will, foodstuffs, clothing
mmutious and oti,er articles probable
' .o suspend work. ,, was
-a d. Shipments or grain, which arc
col,- nrU\"'K- "nd for Whic"
? i i vc ??'1''''?"tod. viu.ia:iv
would be stopped. The loss to the
communllles i? 11 pJU-.s or ||,?
nited Slates, ii was said, might bring
t?hoi,t unprecedented conditions
There were con tinned announcements
B., F. & P. CUTS FflEIEHT
Hi PASSENGER SEIISE
Perishable Commodities Will \?t |>c
.Acccpfotl for Transportation
After 1-YIduy.
<tutaii.s 'mi;or<;ii tuaixs
Will \o, Sell Tickets or Check liag
?"?<? to Points ISeyond Washing
ton After 8:2t? Sunday \iK|it.
Situation Becomes Acute.
A ilh the declaration by the Rich
mond. Fredericksburg and Potomac |
t?aIIroad of an embargo apainst cer- |
tain classes of perishalle freight, ef
fective at once, and the curtailment of
passenger service after Sunday night,
the railroad situation in Richmond
yesterdny.as a result or the threatened
. .like oi 400.000 employees throughout
tli-country. reached an ;io.,te stage
he IlichMioiKl. Fredericksburg .ml
fotoinac Railroad announced from jts
general ofllccs late vesterdav Ih u no I
live stock or petishabie , reigh' th,U '
vvo.ld reach ^destination ,|,an
Monday morning at 7 o'clock, mak-ng
cone, lions with the Haiti,nore and <> ,io
Railway. would be accepted. |'I(,I1
further notice, other freight will be
accepted, subject to delay in transit or
ery at destination, except that
ga so 11 tie. explosives or inflammable
oils will ?ot be receive.I for transpor
la I ion by these collections.
KM IIA li no I. \ lit \?; \ I \ S'l
i'l-:??isii \ i?i.t-: (mi xoiiri'tios
'''or "sport ation via the lvn.s> I
vania Railroad and its connections the
cor.ipan.* stated that no explosives or
inP.immable good* would be received
to-day. the order having bee,, placed
ir. cried, la I e j esterday Perishable
freight, including live stock, dressed
""??,1. poultry, fresh fruits and vege
tables, will not be accepted after to
morrow. and no freight of any descrip
|i?" accepted by II,..- Richmond.
Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad
after Friday. AI shipments accepted
in the i, cant line under the foregoing
conditions subject to delay,
and <l.i ma *; e resulting from .lie
threatened strike.
The road's passenger service will
"Iso be affected. (?i, and after Mon
day ,corning at T o'clo, k the through
passenger s-rvi.-o will be nu.Nriully
curtailed, necessitating changes of
cars at Washington. No tickets will
be sold and no baggage checked to
points beyond Washington after train
No. S't, leaving Richntond at S:*:o
o'clock Sunday night. Oenoral Tranic
Manager Warren I*. Taylor announced
that the public would be rully advised
of any curtailment it, the service be
tween Richmond and Washington and
iieyond up,., north ot soothboiiud. as
conditions ari.se.
.Spend Uerk-h'nd and l.nlior l>n> |n Norfolk
uia-ilTTiM! 'SLf-ffi?.;-!,SPSS'."
fcll'lowinK ,"11"3 I'lmll .'.t.finl..y
J of frr-inlit embargoes I?y the
j \\ liitt was ???!???:I as ??!??? of the n"??d
j fiir-reachl Pi; of th^se orders was that
j issued !?v the Xpw \ ??rk ? 'entral, which
Isa in:
! "Iti view of tlio t li i ? a I ??iumI national
| strike of employees in freight train
run! vnnl "orvice, the Now Vork Or.tral
j Itailroail is ulilipjii to issue Sin* fol
i lo.? i lit; order:
' Xi, st. Klfcelivt; miunight Tlttivs'lity,
\t'gust ;S I. embargo all perisha! le
freight am! live stork, cxn |>t stu li ship
on nts as move exclusively 'within terri
tory west or east of Niagara frontier
01 t "I'-afl- In. This <o\ers either loc.ii
or comic ting line tr.itlic. This mean-i
that no shipments as aiiovo described
slicubl ho accepted for movement from
a pou t east of iSuffalo or < 'learl;eld to
a point west tlteieof
Second. Kfteetive midnight lay,
September 1. embargo all freight orig
inating on our own lines or routing
front con met ions, regardless <?| disti
llation. except anthracite anil hUttmlit
ou; coal anil iron ore.
I ' riiiril. Ktfcotive midnight Saturday,
September embargo all freight orlc
inatir.g at points on our own lines or
com in ?? ft on connecting lines, regard
less of its destination. Milk train traf
fic is exempted from the above."
\\ \ It N I Mi TO Tit \ VI'.I.KItS
issri:i? III kt.\IN:il.\l)S
The Delaware. Lackawanna and
Western Kailroad issued a warning to
travelers "to tuake arrangements to
complete any necessary Journeys" he
fore 7 A. M. September -t. the hour set
for the strike
All ticket and station agents on lines
of the Pennsylvania Kallroail east of
Pittsburgh were directed to-nigi.t to
post notices near ticket .windows ad
vising passengers that all tickets sold
are subject to rest rioted train service
and delay en route anil .it junction
points 011 alid after * A M. September ?!.
?Mllcials of the Mtllory. t'lydi- X- Mor
gan coastwise steamship lines agreed
that alt hough their ships would de
clare an eiubu-go on freight d-stim d
for interior points, in the event of a
sti ike, thero would lie no interrup
tion of the existing service. On the
other hand, they declared, their lines
were prepared 10 add to their fleets in
the event that the volume of coastwise
freight increased a result of the
suspension of railroads. The lines have
twenty-two ships in service between
Atlantic coast ports from Huston to
(!aIvfston. Seven ships of the reserve
Heel are ready for service in case of
need.
??tibials of passenger lilies trafficking
between this city and other coast ports
declared to-day they were prepared to
meet demands for additional services
hy utilizing their r-sorve fleets.
GUARDSMEN ON BORDER
ORDERED SEN! ROME
I llusion Is Directed to Return !.">,000
Soldiers to Their State Mob
ilization Cnmps.
OTHKRN NOW ON WAV TMKKEl
Remaining Troops Now I ntler .Mob
ilization in Several Stales Proba
bly \\ ill Take Place of Some Oilier
Regiments Along Rniiudary Line.
WASHINGTON. A u c ust SO.?Orders
for the return to their State mobiliza
tion camps of Ki.nfui national guards
men now on the Mexican border were
Issued to-night by the War Depart
ment. General Kunston was directed
to return three regiments from New
ork. two from New Jersey, two from
Illinois, two from Missouri, and one
each from California, Oregon, Wash
ington and Iisiatin.
Secretary Caker announced the or
der after a conference with President
Wilson at the White Mouse. Karl let
in the day the department had ordered
to their home stations. iS.oun regular
coast artillerymen from tie border.
The secretary's statement to-night
sa id.
' In view of the fact that suhstan
tia 11> this number of troops who have
not done patrol dut\ on the border are
now on their way there, it is felt that
this number can be spared. In a few
da\. it transportation facilities remain
undisturbed, the department intends to
order home some more regiments, and
possibly to replace them vlth troops
now in their mobilization camps in
tile several States."
SKI.|-:< TIOV is l.iwr
to okm:u m. |.-| wi o\
I Ice i 111 e 111 s to be sent home were not
designated by number, and i! js un
derstood thai their selection is left to
? ienei a 1 i-'tnistoil
I '.-partment officials think there is
ample force on the border now to in
sure pi opei' pi ot oct ion. and with t h?
immediate gi-avlt.v of the Mexican sit
uation constantly lessening, it is not
considered necessary to strengthen
Oenoial I-'uiihIon's command. The pol
icy now is to give all of the State
troops called into the IVd.ml service
opportunity to see service xv.,r foot
ing along the i ti 11 rua t ioua i line.
Withdrawal of General Pershing's!
expedition into Mexico, which is ex-'
peeled lo follow soon after the meet-l
ing of I he Mexican-American point
commission at I'ortsmo ith, W II.. prob
abl\ will lead lo the eariv reiurn lionv
"f "'i' mt.i rdsn.cn. I'ershlnu's
'roup.- addtd to the regulars already
on the border, army officers think
would innliit the patrol sufficiently
strong unless some new trouble de
veloped.
All Influence of Adminis
tration Brought to Bear
on Union Leaders.
PRESIDENT MAY TURN
TO WORKERS THEMSELVES
I Confidence Still Prevails in Offi
j cial Circles That There Will
Be No Walkout.
AT U'OKIv OX liK(?ISI.ATIOX
Opinion in Senate ConrPiit rales on
l"rgeiit Xocessity for Kiner<;cnf,v
Act ion I ni mediately.
WASHINGTON. August .10.?Alt the
influence of tlio a <1 mi 11 r;it ion was
brought to boar to-day in an otYort.
/<> persuade the railroad brotherhood
loaders to cancel or postpone the order
calling a nation-wide .strike on Mon
day. while leaders in Congress bepnn
paving the way for legislation de
signed to prevent or stop she threat
ened industrial catastrophe.
Utile tangible progress was made in
either direction, but, nevertheless, in
official quarters to-night th?re still
prevailed confidence that in one way
or another the walkout would he
averted.
To the spokesmen of President Wil
son who approached tliom all of the
brotherhood ottieials pave the same
reply: that they had no power to rccall
the strike order, and that only one
thiug?a satisfactory settlement?could
keep their men at work after 7 A. M.
on l,abor l>ay. Further pressure will
be brought to bear, and as a last
resort the President is considering a
public appe.il to the men themselves
to have the order rescinded.
Apparently the legislation which is
i being counted upon to stay the
| brotherhoods is that part of the Presi
dent's program which would tlx an
eight-hour day for rail road employees
engaged in operating trains in inter
state commerce and provide for an
investigation of its effects by a com
mission or hoard. This cm-bodies the
principal features of the President's
origin.U plan, accepted by the train
men. and W. t.i. Lee. bend of the train?
men. said to-night that Its enactment,
with a puuranteo of the present rate
of daily pay. would be regarded by
the brotherhood leaders as a "satis
factory settlement." Immediately upon
its becoming a law. he said, the
brotherhood loaders would send out
the code message notifying general
chairmen that the strike order should
not go into effect.
l.l<-.AI>KliS S\V MICH
Kvrn some of the congressional,
loaders who oppose other feat tires of
the program say such a law could bo
passed.
The Senate virtually sidetracked the
onx rpeticy revenue bill for an all-day
debate on the crisis, while the Inter
state? Commerce Committee arranged
for hearings beginning at !' o'clock to
morrow morning, when representatives
of both sides will bo board. Three
hours will bo given to each side, and
then the committee will begin drafting
legislation into shape for presentation
to the Senate on Saturday.
Dominant thought in the minds of
the members of Coiu-ross generally re
sulted m the introduction late in the
day of a resolution by Senator Rlair
Lee, of Maryland, calling upon officials
of the railroad brotherhoods to post
pone execution of the strike order for
one week to give Congress sufficient
time for intelligent consideration of
legislation suggested in President Wil
son's message. The resolution was re
ferred to the Interstate Commerce
Committee without discussion.
Opinion In the Senate, after the gen
oral debate, concentrated on the urgent
necessity f >r emergency action tlr-st.
proposals for permanent legislation to
oe considered thoroughly liter danger
of an immediate, tie-up had been
passed This sentiment was forcibily
[ expressed on the lloor and echoed in
conferences of House leaders.
( OMMITTKK IIIM t SSKS
| The interstate Coiritncrco Committee
! dis. UH.ted the proposed legislation late
| in the day. but postponed action until
nfter to-morrow's hearings. In the
meantime word came from the House
side that Representative Adamson,
chain.i.in of the Commerce Committee,
and Majority Leader Kitchin had con
cluded that the eigbt-hour-day law
could be passed through the House.
Tentative drafts of measures sub
mit too to the Senate, committee and
communicated to all parties to the
controversy during the day. include the
following provisions to be attached to
a pending bill, which would enlarge
the Interstate Commerce Commission:
Kstahlishineiit of < Split hours .is the
standard for a days' work for railroad
employees operating- trains in inter
state commerce, and the appointment
by the President of a wage commis
sion of throe members to observe the
administration and ilnaciat effects of
institution of Mio eight-hour tiny, the
Piesklent to submits its recoi'imenda*
tions to the Intercalate Commerce Com*
inissioiiT which would accept the lind*
ings. unless clearlv erroneous, and ad
iust rates to insure a fa'r return on
invested capital; wugt-s of employees
not to be reduced, for a period to be de
termined, below tho present standard
day's wage, pending the report nn<l
pro rata proportion to lie paid for ser
vice in excess of eight hour*; tii* o.oiu
n. issious also to sfinlx and l o|?ort on
the problem of compensation for fail*
fluid employees.
Amindinent of existing arbitration
law directing the board of mediation
and conciliation, if unable to
i. \\v rot i.u hi-: iw.sskii
ruoposi-M)
