The Only Acc"ratN Tw- Tine
Barometer -. a us nes.n. a. .r. .
ore m .....- g....t as e.tn. .... ..~U*n
1.s i.m~ ...l few.. b~a~ t Md,- IN sas I "s M . M rwmao. n
NO. 3605. wRnTa-..n WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1916. ONE CENT.
TURKEY DEC
AGAINST RI
NEW FOE E
King Ferdinand's F our t
Army Menaces Kronstad
Transylvanian Metropolis.
(my the Internatiomal News Servie
London, Aug. -A Bucharet
dispatch to the Da' y Tel ph say
that alt the yearn of the Carpi
tMaea are in the hands of the Rot
semians
A Paris dispatch declares two in
t Transylvanian cities has
taken by the Ronunanian
names are not given.
London. Aug. 3.-Turkey today decla
ed war against Roumania, according 1
a Reuter dipatch from Constantinopl
The action of the sublime Porte to
lowed quickly upon that of Germany.
Bulgaria now is expected to folio
suit, although the delay of the Sofia go,
ernment in acting Is reported to hal
caused much uneasiness in Berlin, whet
it is feared the Russophile party is gait
Ing ascendancy in the Bulgarian cout
cile.
In view of reports. however, that Rua'
chuk, on the Danube, and Varna. t
great Bulgarian Black Sea port, hai
both been bombarded by Roumanian
it is not expected here that the Bulge
government can much longer procrast
nate.
News of Turkey's declaration of wt
was received almost simultaneously wit
official statements from Bucharest at
V!enna which indicate that the Rot
manians are making wide inroads upc
Transylvanian soil
Battling In the mountains, the Rot
maniana fourth army is reported b
Bucharest to be within three miles t
the lar:e industrial city of Kronstad
one of the largest manufacturing cer
ters of Transylvania.
The village of Hossesufalu. east
Kronstadt, has been reached, and mot
than 7a Austro-Hungarians have bee
taken prisoners.
Vienna admits a withdrawal along t
whole Rouman:an front, "in accordant
with plans provided for a long time ag
in ease of war."
This withdrawal, the Austrian war o
flee earcastically observes, probably wi
lead 'the enemy to boast of having of
c'pied Petroseony. Kronstadt (Brasso
and Kezdl-Vasarhely."
The. with H.rmannstadt. are It
rrimral cities withIn striking distant
f the frontier
TEUTONS SHELL ENEMY
FORCES IN TRENTINI
New Austro-Hungarian Drive Fort
shadowed.
4 1y the International News Service
oto'. Aug 3.--A new Austro-Hu
gaan offenive against the Italians I
the Trer tino was foreshadowed by a twei
heir artillery hombardment t
n. Cardona's positionr.s between t
.loe and Brenta Rivers, reported by t<
ruigh s war omfice statement.
Tne r'port claims several minor au,
es tor the Italians at various point
or the line. The lull in the fightir
r ;orizia continues. The Itallar
strightened out their line on the Care
Plateau as a result of local actions.
T .tatemer.t follows:
The hostile artillery bombarded of
p t- ns u.:tinously between the Ad's
and the Brenta. They shelled Ala, Ai
si..o, andl Segh.
In the Fassa area our Alpini et
'emied their occupation of the cre
nortnact of Cauriol. taking twenty-or
t ''..-. a vrench morta-, and numerot
T e 'nemya artillery opened a heav
rr- C'aurinl. which wan effectively at
NEUTRAL PREMIER OF
GREECE WILL RESIGI
Entire General Staff of Army Alb
Out, Is Report.
,BY the international News Service
London. Aug. Bt-Premier Zaimis, net
t-slist head of King Constantine's mini
trY, has announced his decision to r
sign. according to a dispatch from Athet
to the Dally Telegraph.
The intervention of Roumania in tt
war, the grave consequences of that it
tervention to Greece, are attributed e
the reasons for his decision by the Ather
newspaper Nea Hellas, which the Tel<
graph's correspondent quotes.
This report comes on the heels of
Reuter dispatch from Athens which al
sarts that general remobilization is undt
consideration.
F'ollowing the shake-up by which Get
Moschopoulo., commander at Salonil
and friend of the entente, became chit
of staff of the Greek army, a Centri
News dispatch from Athens states tha
the entire general staff has resigned.
Roumania's intervention has caused
profound sensation in Greece.
Developments, all of which point i
Greece's entry into the war, are rapid]
- i following each other.
"'TWO-TWO" IS LATEST DANCE,
To Be Introdmeed in Meviee-He'
Jt Is Deme.
v ChIcago. Aug. B--The "two-twt
is the new dance which will be ti
ballroom favorite If the recommendi
tron of the American National Assi
ciatlon of Dancing Masters is adopted.
The new dance will be introduced1
the public in moving pictures, The "tw
two" is danced by a syncopated rhythz
In dancIng the man starts off with ti
ieft foot, making a long slop to tI
count one-two, with a slight balance
the end of the step;: then a quick stepi
tihe count of three: then shift the ba
snce to the right foot; draw the leftt
to It.
SwdihSteamer. Seized.
Copenhagen. Aug, a-The Swedli
steamers. 'or and Roelagen were seize
a German torpedo boat yesterday sm
LARES WAR
)UMANIA AS
RIVES AHEAE
British Censor Opens
Private Hughes Letter
sedial to The Wsshington Herald.
New York, Aug. 30.-Not
t even a candidate for President
" of the United States is exempt
from the activities of the Brit
ish censorship.
At Republican national head
quarters today a letter was re
ceived addressed to Mr. Hughes
which had been opened and which
bore across one end in big black
* letters the single word "CEN
SORED."
The letter had been mailed in
the United States postoffice at
e Shanghai, China, which is an
open port in a neutral country.
SERBS REPULSE
rI
BULGAR ATTACI
h)
Batteries on Struma Fron
Silenced by British.
(By the International News Service
London. Aug. 30.-While the Bulgariar
continue to spread out In Northeaster
Greece and along the coast of the Aegea
e Sea, they have been brought to a con
o plete halt on both the center and allie
left wing.
All their attacks agair~et the Serbiar
e have been repulsed, and in the Verde
o sector of the front the French has
pressed forward in the region of Ljun
- nica.
On the Struma front British artiller
has silenced the Bulgarian batteries.
The Bulgarians are unofmcially repor
ed to have occupied the city of Dram
e in Northeastern Greece.
e The report, which is received by wa
of Paris, states that three of the city
defending forts have been occupied an
120 Greek soldiers taken prisoner.
The Bulgarians previously had been r
ported as pledging themselves not I
occupy Drama, which is one of the prilr
cipal cities of Greek Macedonia.
Together with Ravala and Zeres.
was supposed to be immune from Bu
garian seizure.
BRITISH MAKE MINOR
GAINS ON WEST FRON
(By the International News Service
n London. Aug. 30.-The lull in the figh1
ing on the Somme front is due to perch
ftent bad weather.
e The last twenty-four hours saw no a4
tion on a large scale, but the Britis
made some minor gains today, straigh
ening out their line across a small salier
a south of Martinpuchi.
g Thirty-eight prisoners were taken.
s The French frustrated two German e:
o forts to attack near Reillon, in Lorrain,
and made progress east of Fleury, In It
Verdun area.
BUCHAREST BOMBARDED
BY ZEPPELIN AIRSHI
t
a (By the International News Service
Bucharest (via London), Aug. 29.
y Zeppelin airship, accompanied by an aert
. plane, bombarded Bucharest from the a
tonight, but did no material damag
A number of bombs were dropped.
While the air raid against Bucharer
was in progress a fleet of aeroplanes ale
dropped bombs on Baltchik, Piatra, an
1 Neamtu, but the official reports stai
j that no damage was done there.
20,000 GREEKS CHEER
D ANTI-VENIZELOS MEl
(By the International News Service
Athens, Aug. 30.-Twenty thousar
,) persons took part in an anti-Venizel<
demonstration here on Tuesday. Speech,
were delivered by Stephen Dragoumi
D. G. Rhallis and M. Gounaries, all
a whom urged the people to support Kit
Constantine and the government.
e All three speakers were former pr
miers of Greece and have been regard<
a as neutrals, with a slight leaning towa1
the central powers. M. Venizelos is tl
leader of the pro-ally party.
a BERNHARDI TO COMMAN
CORPS IN GERMAN ARM'
(By the Internatieaal News Service
Zurich, Aug. 30.-One of the first a
pointments of Field Marshal von Hin
t enburg as chief of the German gener
staff was the assignment of Ge:
Friedrich von Bernhardt to the commas
of an army corps on the Volhynia fror
according to a report received heret
0 day.
y Gen. Berinhardi is 66 years old and
a naval commander.
TWENTY LIVES LOST AS
HURRICANE HITS SHIl
"(Dy the Internatiemal News Service
e New Orleans, La.. Aug. 30.-Twen1
lives were lost when the steamer At
- miral Clart was destroyed in tI
Caribbean Sea August 16.
0 Six survivors arrived here todayc
-the Swedish bark Tana.
L The Admiral Clark entered the hu:
S ricane at S a. m. August 16, and he
le crew was immediately put to streni
tous work, the gale having reachi
0 a velocity of eighty miles an hoiur.
iI- Three hours later the ship foundes
P ed and went to the bottom. All lif.
boats were crushed into bits and tU
crew improvised a raft. When tU
raft was floated the crew had to jurn
into the water to board it.
d
B Altoe sabr xm os
orura O t lo ever 4-aa
34 MISSING IN
SHIP DISASTER
- Admiral Pond Cables Names
of Lost Memphis Men.
Admiral Pond cabled to the Navy De
partinent last night a list of the missing
members of the crew of the United States
cruiser Memphis, which was wrecked on
the San Domingo coast Tuesday by a
tidal wave. Thirty-four names were in
cluded in the list, all of whom are be
lieved to have been drowned.
The list, made public last night by the
Navy Department, is in addition to the
list issued in the day, which reported
the name of only one dead and several
injured. The man known to be dead was
George William Rudd, chief machinist's
mate.
Admiral Pond also cabled the Navy De
partment last night:
"Sea smooth, Memphis solidly ashore,
eight feet out of water. Working party
on board securing records and landing
stores. Crew quartered in town. Hospital
facilities ample. From first indications
of trouble until ship struck, less than one
hour."
S The last missing, which includes the
name of J. H. Townsend, fireman of the
first class, who was later reported dead,
follow:
W. R. Carlton, ordinary seaman; L. L.
Crossier, fireman, first class; W. C. Diehl,
coxswain; C. N. Dugan, fireman, first
class; H. A. Duphssey, ordinary seaman;
M. F. Fredericks, seaman; P. P. Ga
rouski, coxswain; H. Gibson, bugler; G. A.
Hannon, seaman; C. Harcourt, seaman;
J. Harrington, fireman, second class; C.
t Howard, warrant officer's steward; W.
Jackson, ordinary seaman; W. F. Ken
ney, seaman; H. . Liebel, ordinary sea
man; W. S. Lutomaki, seaman; M. A.
McDermltt, seaman; F. MI. Major, sea
man; H. Mullaney, ordinary seaman; C. J.
Reynolds. ordinary seaman; E. A. Rol
* lins, seaman; A. J. Rudolph, oiler; R. St. I
n Clair, ordinary seaman; J. J. Sheehan, i
n coal passer; I. Shocklin. coxswain; W. B.
Smith, coxswain; It. G. Snell, seaman;
d C. F. "Taylor. coal passer; J. Teshack, t
fireman, first class; W. Thorner, yeoman,
s second class: R. L. Tingle, ordinary sea
r man; F. E. Toepfer, seaman: J. H. Town- I
e send, fireman, first class; C. L. Walton,
+ fireman, first class.
Admiral Pond's latest dispatch gives
Y the names of Lieut. Claud A. Jones as
seriously wounded and Mlachinist C. NI.
Willey as in a grave condition.
a Fireman J. H. Thompson and Fireman
Bt. -. Anderson also were seriously in
7 jured,
d. His report stated that "sixty-seven were
slightly injured."
The Navy Department will try to sal
vage the Memphis.
tPLUNGES TO PAVEMENT
FROM ELEVENTH FLOOR
r Philip Caffery. Carpenter at Munsey
Building, Instantly Killed.
Philip Caffery, about 40 years old, a
- carpenter, working at the Mlunsey Build
- Ing and residing at ,801 Colorado avenue
northwest, Brightwood, ripped through a.
t sheet of canvas nailed over an open front
window on the eleventh story of the new
Miunsey Building last night and plunged
headlong toward the ground, struck a
steel girder projecting from the fourth
e floor and fell in a mangled heap among
building stones on the archway over the
sidewalk.
He was picked up dead a few minutes
later by J. Hall, a steam fitter. Death
was probably instantaneous.
Caffery was standing on a scaffolding
about five feet above the floor and ad
jacent to the window, fitting a picce of
) timber which was to support a section
A of the roof. He either became overbal
anced by the weight of the timber, step
r ped out and off the scaffolding, or leaned
against the canvas nailed over the win
dow which may have torn loose. le be
dt gan his fatal plunge toward the side
o walk with a shriek that unnerved his
d fellow workmen for minutes afterward.
e Caffery was a man of steady habits, a
member of the Washington Brotherhood
of Carpenters, and leaves a widow and
three children.
DRINK-CRAZED MOB
SEEKING MAN'S LIFE
sj
' Spseding to Ohio Town to Kill Woman's
Alleged Assailant.
d (By the laternational News Service.)
e Lima, Ohio, Aug. 30.-In a hundred mo
tor trucks, a drink-inflamed mob tonight'
is speeding to Ottawa, where Sheriff Ely
has hidden Charles Daniels, a negro, ac
cused of a brutal assault upon Mrs. John
Baher, wife of a farmer.
Ely got his prisoner out of the county
Jail and hid him just before the mob
stormed the jail tonight. The mob hunt
ed down the sheriff, but he refused to
i- tell where he had hidden the negro. The
ci mob put a noose around the sheriff's
t- neck, tore off his clothes, and beat him
d nearly into insensibility before he final-1
t- ly admitted he had taken the negro to
-Ottawa, a small town near here,
Police battled with mob, Many were
is injured. The fire departmnent turned
streams of water on the crowd but motor
trucks and automobiles were com
mandeered and with the aheriff as a
prisoner the mob started on its vengeful
Mrs. Baber is at Liberty Hospital in
a serious condition, She is about to re
ceive a viait from the stork. The wom
yan this afternoon identified the negro
as the one who called at her home this
e morning and when refused food, choked
her, cut her with a razor and assauited
n her, Tbe negro was found hiding in
the woods by a posse.
d I respoase to the argeut requesi
Iisher's Asseeiatiom that aewspaper
mad de everything in their 'power te
e shortage. The Washingtem HBrRALDi
e eepies, begiamiag Septeinher L
PIn order to prevent any disappoil
be left with the mgeut. earrier er' me
suaday Washingtem HERALD, as emi
dered will eenatitute eac da' prem
Telegraph Tips |
San Francisco, CaL, Aug. 20.-Beveral
'uto bandits thls afternoon held up the
hiisslon street nch of the Anglo-Call
fornia Trust ny, shot and seriously
wounded the ping telles, and escaped
with $1,600. One of the robbers was cap
tured.
Rome, Aug. All of the tablets com
memorating the alser's visits to Rome
were removed ay by the Italian gov
ernment.
Mineapolls, 14r,., Aug. 30.-The wrist
watch will be 're in vogue than ever
before, lavaliereswillI remain popular for
it least another ear, and ear screws and
brooches will bq worn more generally
than for sver years, according to
ipeakers at the nual convention of the
American Natiol1 Retail Jewelers' As
sociation here to y.
Copenhagen. Auk. 30.-The Kiel Zeitung
says that 430,000 Iron Crosses have been
yonferred up to the present, of which 420,
100 were of the second class, each com
posed of half cast iron and half silver.
Tokyo, Aug. 10.-An earthquake in
Southern Formosa on August 28, near
Mount Morrison, destroyed 500 houses and
resulted in thirty casualties. Ten cases
f Asiatic cholera are reported in Tokyo.
The disease is abating at Nagasaki, but
nereasing at Osaka. where the cases now
number 406.
San Francisco, Aug. S.-Two and one
salf ounces were lopped from each loaf
>f bread baked today by San Francisco
takers to be sold for five cents and
loughnuts were raised from twelve to
ifteen cents a dozen, as also were snails,
oils and buns. Heretofore the five
:ent loaves weighed fifteen ounces.
Boston, Aug. 10.-Trade of the port of
Boston for the year ending July i1
utounted to 347,03,047, an increase of
nore than 307,000,000 over the correspond
ng period of 1916. Trade with England
or the year increased 521.000,000. with
'rance $12,000,000 and with Argentina
13.000.000.
Middletown, N. T., ug. 30.-James Car
nody is dead at his home in Maybrook
it the age of 104 years. Most of his
tfe was passed on the farm. His chil
iren and fourteen great-grandchildren
urvive.
Rehoboth Beach, Aug. 3n.-Rohoboth
'as set a fad that is expected to spread
.o the various other Atlantic seashore
'esorts. Men and boys have been appear
ng with little knitted caps, and they
ore proving popular.
Helena, Mont., Aug. 3.-Bishop l. R.
Brewer of the Montana diocese of the
'rotestant Episcopal Church. is dead here
Lt the age of 77.
London. Aug. 30 -Sir Horace Rum
>old has been appointed British Minister
it Berne, Switerland. He succeeds
velyn M. Grant-Duff, who is retiring
in account of his health.
Norfolk, Va., Aug. 30.-The nine battle
hips comprising the reserve fleet under
tear Admiral Helm steamed from Hamp
on Roads late yesterday for Tangier
ound, Chesapeake Bay. where the
'tvilian sailors will engage In practice.
Paterson. Aug. 20.-Mrs. Cornelius
Testerfelt. 23 years old, a bride of four
nonths, was instantly killed this after
toon when struck by an automobile own
d and operated by Jacob Kushner.
Denver, Aug. 30.-After waiting ten
rears for his wife to return, 70-year-old
3oylington Skelton began divorce pro
:eedings. The wife, once a maid in his
some, is said to have spent a fortune on
'er voice. She is now in Paris.
New York, Aug. 30.-Three murderers.
roseph E. Hanel, of Brooklyn; Thomas
Bambrick. of Manhattan, and Jan Try
mits, of Batavia, N. Y., are to be elec
rocuted at Sing Sing Friday morning.
Augusta. Me.. Aug. 30.-National
3uardsmen from this State on duty at
he Mexican border will assemble at Ia
-edo, Tex.. on September 11 to vote in
he Maine election on that date, it was
Lnnounced today by the secretary of
state, John E. Bunker.
Atlantic City. Aug. 30.-After keeping
in all-night watch on the Hotel Aristo
'rat, in Atlantic City. Frank Stern, of
his city, today caused the arrest of his
-oung wife and Frank Izensky, a life
wuard. Both were held for the grand
Ury.
Philadelphia, Aug. 30.-Former Gov.
Samuel W. Pennypacker, who is critleal
y ill at his home at Schwenksville, suf
ered a sinking spell this afternoon. His
thysteian declared in a bulletin that Mr.
'ennypacker's condition is extremely
Crave.
Harrisburg. Aug. 30.-AttemptIng to
tvoid being run down by a Philadelphia
nd Reading train at a grade crossing
iear East Middletown station today,
riah Schrum. Middleton, drive his
notor cycle against Mrs. Sara Hoerner,
7. and her daughter. Mrs. Elizabeth
forger. 59. instantly killing Mrs. Hoer
ier and seriously injuring her daughter.
Wilmington. Del., Aug. 30.-A quarterly
lividend of 25 per* cent on the common
tock was declared today by the direc
:ors of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours &
'o.. munition manufacturers, with the
inderstanding that 191-2 per cent of this
ilvidend is payable in bonds of the Brit
sh and French governments, to which
munitions have been sold.
White Plains. N. T., Aug. 30.-Pursuant
o an order of Justice Platt, of the Su
)reme Court, filed at White Plains, the
state Department of excise made a raid
mn two ferryboat, running between Rye
mnd New Rochelle on this side of the
sound. and Sea Cliff on the other side,
and seized a quantity of lIquors.
New Haven. Coon.. Aug. SO.-The poor
yf County Down. Ireland. will receive
10,000~ by the will of Patrick Murray, it
was learrted today when the inventory of
Mtr. 'turray's estate was filed in the Pro
yate Court.
San Antonio. Tex., Aug. 30.-Sister Mary
tita, one of the most widely known mem
bers of the Order of Sisters of Our I.ady
if Charity, conducting the homes of the
lood Shepherd throughtuot the country,
s dead here today at the convent of the
>rder.
of the. Amerlesn 'Newspaperi Pgb
s eliinalte all unnecessary Waste
essens the present news priut paper
will sbolish all returns ad free
Utment, we suggest that yeur crder
wsdealer at once fer the daily and
y $he actual numer of espies er
I rUU.
15,000 GUARDS
ORDERED BACK
War Department to Return
Militiamen to States.
The War Department last night direct
ed Gen. Funston to return to their Stat
mobilization camps three regiments from
New York, two from New Jersey, on,
from Maryland, two from Illinois, twt
from Missouri, one from California, oni
from Oregon, one from Washington, anc
one from Louisiana, making in all aboul
15,000 of the National Guard.
In view of the fact that substantiall
this number of troops who have not dons
patrol duty on the border are now or
their way there, it is felt that this num.
ber can be spared.
In a few days, if transportation facli
ties remain undisturbed, the departmen1
intends to order home some more regt.
ments, and possibly to replace them wits
troops now in their mobilization campi
in several States.
Secretary of War Baker was asked
whethet the troops were being ordered
home in connection with the impendini
railroad strike, and also whether or not
the troops would be kept in service of
would be mustered out.
"I have no comment to make other that
the order I issued tonight," he replied.
The War Department says Gen. Fun.
ston w'il designate which regiments will
be ordered home.
Coupled with the general localities to
which the militia organization has been
ordered to return, the movement is ac
cepted as meaning that the regiments
are being recalled for possible strike duty.
Railway executives who were routed
out of bed at midnight to be told of the
order, expressed the opinion that the
President had adopted this strategy to
keep the big trunk lines open.
It was pointed out that any of the
troops could not break camp, load and
get back to their respective States before
Monday, the date set for the strike.
HITCHCOCK BACK IN
REPUBLICANCAMPAIGN
Hughes Boomer Sent West to Inject
"Pep" Into Plans.
(By the Internatiemal News Service.)
New York, Aug. 30.-Frank H. Hitch
coc'< returned to a front seat on the
Hughes campaign cart today.
At an all-day session of the Republicar
national advisory committee, the mat
who condu, ted the gum shoe canvass t<
nominate the Presidential caididate war
given a roving commission to discovei
the cause of the lack of "pep" and appl)
the remedy by election day.
Mr. Hitchcock started for the West to
night. lie will attempt to "jack thing
up" in Indiana, Ohio, and adjacent States
le will make a preliminary report in s
week.
His next expedition will he determine(
by the situation as it develops in othel
States whose electoral votes are assen
tial to insure the defeat of Presideni
Wilson.
Mr. Hitchcock's re-entry in the cam
palen Is by no means agreeable to Na
tional Chairman Willcox.
After Wi:ieox had for hours listened t<
warnings from Victor Rosewater, of Ne
braska; Charles G. Dawes, of Illinois
Theodore 0. Burton, of Ohio; A, O. Eber.
hardt, of Minnesota, and other veterans
that If a master hand was not laid or
the machine It mIght go to pieces, he re.
luctantly consented to accept Hitchcock'i
co-operation.
UPHEAVAL HITS RANKS
OF SUFFRAGE SOCIETY
Three Officers Resign From National
Association.
(By the international News Service.)
New York, Aug. 30.-There is an up
heaval in the ranks of the Nationa
Woman Suffrage Association.
Three of its most important officers are
resigning.
Mrs. Frank M. Roessing refuses to b
first vice president any longer. Miss Anne
J. Patterson, corresponding secretary any
"right-hand man" to Mrs. Carrie Chap
man Catt, is eager to bid farewell to het
office. and Mrs. James W. Morrison want,
to be relieved of the duties of recording
secretary.
Visions of a dark horse are alarmin
the association. There is no stroni
woman In sight who can take any of the
places that are to be open.
"I can't think of a possible candidate
for these three important posts," Mrs
Catt raid today.
"Mrs. Roessing, whose home is in Penn
sylvania. has been forced to remain it
Washington because of her work for the
Congressional committee.
"Miss Patterson, whose work for the
cause has kept her in New York. has het
home in Pittsburgh. Mrs. Morrison is t
Chicago woman."
Mrs. Morrison. who is the mother o
four children, is the only one who actu
ally resigned, the terms of the other twr
having expired.
SAY JOHNSON VICTORY
WILL ASSIST HUGHES
By WILLIAM HOSTER.
(Iaternational News Servie.)
Estes Park, Colo., Aug. 30-ox
Hughes refused today to comment on the
news from California that Hiram John
son had won out in the Republican pri
mary fight there for the United State,
Senatorship.
If Johnson has really won, the vic.
tory, it is belIeved, will react here bone
ficially for Hughes on the Progreesive
throughout the country.
The Republican candidate will leave
here for Love'iand at 2 o'clock tomorros
afternoon, where he wvill deliver a briej
address at the Laramie County Fair
H~e will then go to Denver, whence he
will start, four hours later, far Topeka
Plague Cases Increase.
New York, Aug. 30.-Thtere was an in
crease 4n new cases of infantile paralysi:
today, the figures being eighty-nine, at
increase of sixteen over Tuesday. Death,
dropped to twenty-two, as agalast thirty
GOVERNMEN'
EFFORT TO
DATE OF
"God Forgive You,
I Cannot."-Wison
"God forgive you. I can
not."
President Wilson, it was said
yesterday, thus ended his final
interview with the railroad
executives at the White House
Tuesday when they submitted
their proposition rejecting
every effort and suggestion
the President had made for
peaceful settlement of the dis
pute with the employes.
GOMPERS PLEDGES'
SAID TO TRAINMEN
I Says Labor Federation Stands
Behind Employes.
President Samuel Gompers. of the
American Federation of Labor, at Typo
graphical Temple last night, answered the
attack of Senator Sherman. of Illinoia,
in which the labor leader was termed a
public nuisance.
Secretary of Labor Wilson was on the
platform and made a brief address, in
which he declared his presence was for'
the purpose of showing his resentment
again:t the unfair criticism of the labor
executive.
Before directing his attention to Ben
ator Sherman, Gompers declared that the
organized labor movement was solidly
behind the brotherhoods in their de
mands for better conditions from the
railroads. "We do not want a strike."
he said. "but if it comes the American
Federation is on the line and stands
shoulder to shoulder with the trainmen
in their demand for the eight-hour day
and better working conditions."
Gompers' answer to the various
charges of Senator Sherman was a gen
eral denial, in the course of which he
outlined his long service in the cause of
Labor.
Cites Thirty-5ve Years servire.
"Senator Sherman says I am lucky not
to have been Indieted with the Mc
Namara brothers. I am. Any man is
lucky, who, being innocent, escapes an
unjust accusation. And the Senator is
lucky also from the fact that he has
escaped indictment with the bank loot
era, freebooters and industrial plunder
ers whom he so zealously defends," said
Gompers.
I With reference to the charge that he
had misrepresented labor, he declare.!
that he had been actively affiliated with
the labor movement since its inceptian
in 1881, and if it could be proven by any
overt act, utterance or intimation that
he had ever carried out other than the
express convictions of the laboring
masses he would be content to plead
guilty to the charge.
Taking up the charge that he had bar
tered in the political market with the.
labor vote. Gompers said that he had!
three sons. all voters and all union men.
and he had never even attempted to in
fluence their vote for any candidate, let
alone organized labor as a body. The
position of organized labor In politics
was animated only by the desire to aid
those who aided the cause, he said.
Denies Charge of Grarting,
Takirg up the charge that he lived on
the blood and sinew of the working man,
Gompers said that there were over 2.(00
.+ affiliated with the labor movenjent
and the per capita tax was now three
quarters of a cent to support the na
tional orgarization. Referring to his own
remuneration from the Federation, he de
clared that it amounted to a tax of 1-3
of a cent a year on ea"h worker affiliated
with the nation'l body.
lie declared he hi heen attacked be
I fore and that it was ,utonary in each
national campaign for som- poi ticians to
turn their fire on the labor ex.utives
He attacked former Presider.t Taft as
the father of inlunctions and a man en
tirely out of eympathy with the laboring
forces.
With reference to the charge Ie was
only a temporary head of the labor move
ment, tGompers cited he had been presi
dent of the Federation for thirty-two
years. He characterized the language of
Senator Sherman as not that of a states
' man. Senator or even a gentleman.
President Gompers spoke to an audi
' enee that packed the hall and which
- demonstrated by freqtuen' applatse its
indorsement of his admlnisrstrio
RAILROADS PREPARE
FOR NATIONAL STRIKE
(By the International News rsvie.)
New York. Aug. 30.-Wi h ti e lart I
railroads declaring an embargo on freight
land warning passengers that they ma'
be subjected to delays if they cannot
reach their destination by Sunday night.
September 3, the corporations are rapidly
completing their preparation for the na
tional strike.
For several weeks agent. of the rail
roads have been scouring the country,
hirIng strikebreakers and guards for all
lines. They have reported con-iderable
success.
"STRIKE INEVITABLE,"
(yteSAYS .OUIS W. HILL
(yteluternatiemal News Servie.)I
Chicago, Aug. 30-"A strike is now in
evitable," said Louis W. Hill1. of the Hill
lines, and one of the biggest railroad
owners in the r'nlted States, on hi. re
turn from Washington today.
"The situation Is 'extremely grave. The
matters at issue cannot now be adjusted.
All efforts to prevent this situation have
failed. The demands of the men are out
of reason."
Seize Roumanian Property.
Berlin, Aug. 30.-By~ an offlctal decree
issued today all property in German'
a belonging to the Roumnanian government
is conttscatedi. The de cree also orders
- ierman business houses to pay no msy
ft. ROumailm mM M
r FAILS IN
POSTPONE
RAIL STRIKE
Congress Divided Over Wil
son's Proposals-Trainme
to Fight Certain Features.
The combined efort. of ?rse.. I
son and Congress failed yeeterdey to get
the leader of the railway brotherhoeas
to postpone the date met ter a geara
strlke--leptember 4-wich Is abor Day.
The legislative branch of the govern
ment appeas to be seriousty divied.
The Democratic leaders agree that enty
a part of the President's program ea be
enacted at this tina.
The railway executives advisory uass
mittee dedded last night to aemept the
entire legislative program, but they went
it all or nothing.
The brotherhood leaderse hae hi
steps to combat many important festee
of the proposed laws.
All thought of an adjournment of Cem
gress has been postponed indeOnitely.
Important developments of the day
were:
Senate Interstate Commerce Committee
announced hearings on the measuree pro
posed by President Wilson to start at S
o'clock this morning. The executives.
brotherhood leaders. and shipper' repre
sentatives will each be given three hours
In which to state their objecaons. The
hearing is to be public.
Brotherhood leaders admitted and
President Howard Elliott. of the New
Haven system, warned the public that
the strike order affects the passenger
service as well as the freight trains.
Representatives of unorganied railroad
crployes sent a warning to the White
House that If they are not onsidered
In the new legislatior they will organise
and make demands.
Administration representatives under
tIridance of Chairman Newlands. of the
Senate Interstate Commerce Committee.
completed and made public tentative bills
to comply with the suggestion from the
White House.
Representative Adamson. chairman of
he House Committee on Interstate Com
nerce, Irformed Senator Newlands that
the House would reject at least two of
President Wilson's six proposals 'These
Include the amendment which amounts
to compulsory arbitration and an instrue.
ton to the Interstate Cotmere Commis
Sion to consider an Increase in freight
rates.
Senator Lee. of Maryland. introduced
a resolution in the !Senate, urging the
CA)TIN1tED ON PAG pO.
HOUSE ACTION BREAKS
DISTRICT BILL TIE-UP
Recedes on Major isagreements to
Avoid Responsibility.
Declining to take responsibility for the
lefeat of the District appropriation bill.
the House yesterday voted to recede og
major amendments in disagreement, ala
made possible the passage of th. mS.
Lire within a few days.
The half-and-half plan e' taxation -
Will be retained for another 'ear, the
Sterlng amendment fixing a tax on it. -
tanglbie property w1:: be enacted and "_
rent gas for the District is provided by
the concessions made by the House.
When the bill was called up Rep
tative Page, in a brief speech salo "
the conferees had been unable to agt
an certain amendments and since he dii
not fbel that the House wished to accept
the resonslbiity of defeating the Di,
trict bill, he urged that the House re
rede on the principal points in disagree
ment.
There was some discussion over the
amendment fixing ", rent gas for the
District. Representative Mann dec:ared
that the matter shou d never have been
-onsidered until the Public Utilities Com
rmissIon. which has authority in the mat
er. had completed its Investigation and
eported to Congress. Representative
Page replied that the government has
been getting gas for 75 cente for some
time, and he saw no reason why the
average consumer should pay more.
There was no roll call on any of the
amendments, and the bill now goes back
to conference for a finaj agreement. it
-arriss over I130.B00, of which 31.n00.
%rs wil he expended for improvements in
The Distrlt The firemen's and police
rnen's pension law is a part of the bill.
MEEKER SAYS WILSON
DOMINATED CONGRESS
St. Louis Representative Flays Chief
Executive.
Jacob Edwin Meeker. Representative
from the St. Louis district of Missouri.
addressed the Woman's National Repub
tean C uh in the gridiron room of the
New Willard Hotel last right. Mr
Meeker's subject was reimarlily tariff.
but he digressed sufficient' t. fiay Pre
dent Wilson. claiming that the pest two
sessions of Congress had been domineer
ed by the Chief Executive.
"The Wilson program." he es.!d." is
not a Democratic program, but entire?'
a Wilson program He has attempted to
dominate C'ongrea, and in a measure
has succeeded. It is now necessary' to
renew the e'nadence of the American
people In thoee two great bodies, it
Was never the Intention of the founders
of thia republic that Congre. ihould
receive advice from a Psadent such as
has been given to the member. of the
last two aessions by President W~eon
"By birth he is an autocrat." camtiued
Mr. Meeker. "and he has failed to be
come a Dernocrat, If he is a Denfset,
the name is spelled 'with a small d. He
refuses to have his plans m e'j
with by what he -oneidera a lnt at Ceon
gresamen from Podunk. Theee mus Ce.
gressmen. however, reprgesnt thie peopte
and should he rteognted"
Mr. Meeker said that in his opinion
President WAilson was the "grat
President Great Btritain ever had." He
said that Democrats bragged of ueat
prosperity in the country, but me
man. I lemocrat or Republitma, miod
mention whet Is terrned the era et proe
jerity without blushing awhen itis ee
sidered thai the returna were the eet
and other comomodjt2m the
