THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Generally fnir to-day and to-morrow;
little change In temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 78; lowest, 61.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on page 10.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 366.
NBW YORK, THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1916. Copyright, me. bV the Run Printing and rublbhino Aisoehtton.
ONE CENT
la flmtn New Tork. 1 ICIeewhera 1
Jersey City and Newark. J TWO CENT,
Sun.
RUMANIANS, IN
FIERCE DRIVE,
WIN KRONSTADT
Austrinns in Full Retrcnt.
Invaders Pursuing Deep
Into Transylvania.
HERMANXSTADT ALSO
REPORTED CAPTURED
.Other Towns on Southern
land Eastern Frontier Fall
Bcfoi'e New Ally.
LOMBARD RUSTCHUCK,
A BULGARIAN CITY
Aided by Czar's Troops,
They Seize All Passes of
the Carpathians.
pArts An- So The, An.trlin irmlr.
Amp, Aiin. jv. i up Austrian armies
ore In full retreat before tho Rumanian
Invaders, who ore pursuing them deep
Into Transylvania. The Rumanians
have taken the Important city of Kron
stadt and one report says that they
have taken Ucrnunnstadt.
Ftrlklng rapidly and Immediately
tipon the, declaration of wji on Sun-
day. the Rumanian troops are on the
... .
offensive all along their front. They
liae captured towns on the southern
. , , , . , ,
and eastern borders of Transylvania.
Rumanian troops operating with the
i?i,u.t., - ,e.i ..ii ,i
iicsk-t"it - M VU'iuiiil (HI aiv Jf I I
pal passes of the Carpathians, accord
ing to a despatch front Hucharest by
way of Home. Kor twelve hours the
Rumanians novo marched uninter
ruptedly on Hungarian soli, meeting
only weak resistance.
An Important move In the vigorous
Rumanian offensive Ii the openlnf of
hostilities upon Bulgaria, with whom
Rumania Is not yet ofllclally at war.
Rumanian runs at Ulurgcvo, on the
Danube, have commenced a bombard
ment of tho Bulgarian city, of Rust
chuck, across the river.
I'lttniatnut to Bala-nrln.
Rumania Is reported, In a despatch
from Athens, to have presented an ulti
matum to Uulgarla demanding the
evacuation of Serbian territory. Ru
mania demands that the statu? into of
the Treaty of Bucharest, In 1013, be re
stored, giving Seiblan Macedonia, now
held by llulgar troops, back to Serbia.
Following tho lead of !ermany.
Turkey has declared war upon Ru
mania, according to a despatch from
Constantinople. Bulgaria has not taken
any uction so tar, and reports come
from several sources that the Crown
Prince Boris Is voicing pro-ally sentl-l
ments and there may ba a revolt to 1
dethrone Czar Ferdinand, place
tho
and
'"rown Prince upon the throne
make u separate peace.
Austria tacitly admits the successes of
the rtuirnnian Hrms. nnd the capture of
Kronstadt, Petrozoeny and Koeilzl-Va-tuihcl),
northeast of Krorrtudt. Ru
manian armies have passed through tho
Transylvanlan Alps and the eastern i
Carpathians at five points at least. Rus-
mm mnu in muin, throoeh ih iv.ii. '
ludja, Rumania's easternmost province,
W aid Ir tho Invasion of Bulgaria. j
Austria Admits Detents. j
The Austrian ofliclal communication '
lsued to-day udmlts thut except noith-
east of Orsovo, on the Danube near the
Iron Gates, where repeated Rumanian
attacks vvero repulsed, the Austro-Kun-garlan
troops have been withdrawn step
by step from the frontier In accordance
with prearranged plans.
"The enemy," the communication adds,
"will lioast of having captured Petroz
seny, Bruso (Kronstadt), and Kocdzb
Vasarhcly (northeast t Kronstadt). On
tho northernmost front Rumanian col
umns are battling In tho Gvergyo Moun
tains (In eastern Transylvania, !0 miles
r.orth of Kronstadt),
"In the Carpathians the Germans have
recaptured Kukul Heights, which have
b.en holly contested III recent weeks."
T.L- Tu iv n aii.! f 1 I' I 1 ,1
Tho taking of Kronstadt. one of the
two leading cities of Transylvania, has
been forecast by the Rumanian advance
through the Transylvanlan Alps with
tills city lis Its objective. The city, tho
largest commercial nnd manufacturing
town In Transylvania, has a population
of 40.000 or more, a majority of whom
are Rumanians. The Hungarian nnmo
of tho city Is Brasso. Hie Rumanian,
llrasov. Tho Rumanian official state
nant ono day recently reported the oc
iiipatlon of the town of llosszulfalu, a
tiw miles east of Kronstadt.
Pitrozscny, which another Rumanian
& uy had occupied, Is 130 miles west of
Kronstadt, and only a few miles ov'er
the border from Rumania. The army
t' at took It advanced through the Vul
ciin Pass In tho Transylvanlan Alps.
I has a population of 13.000. but its
.hot value to tho Rumunlans and their
nhl's lies In the largo coal beds, 350
f i'i,ir miles In area, that He about It.
Koezcll-Vnsarhely Is some forty miles
I Ttheast of Kronstadt, and Just at the
fooihllls of tho Rastern Carpathians,
i" hj'h uro tho eastern, as the Trans) .
uiUii Alps ure the southern, Imundary
of Transylvania. It Is on the railroad
uhleh runs south and west to Kronstadt.
S',11 further north, tho Austrlans ad
mit, lighting Is going on In the Oyergyo
Mountains. These mountains aro In
Mtrn Transylvania, about eighty miles
'Till of Kronstadt. Tho Rumanian
nrrny hat Is fighting here went through
' Tolgycs Pass In tho Kastern Car
1 'hl.uis, .
"1m Rumanian War OfMce, however,
a rls that the town of flyergyo has been
'iken and that the advance has pushed
' to the small town of Klssepelea, west
of(J)rtyo. The capture of Qyeriyo puts
Continued on Fourth Peg,
15,000 GUARDSMEN CALLED
BACK; 3 N. Y.
MAY BE USED IN STRIKE
War Department Order Sending Militia to Camps
Likely to Delay Railroad Walkout Coast
Artillery Also to Quit Border.
Wasiu'.'gton, Aug. 30. An Important 1
troop movement (.dcr was Issued by I
tho War Department to-night calling
'rom patrol duly on the Mexican border
15,000 of tho Nutlonal Guard. Tho an
nouncement follows:
Tho War Department to-night di
rected Ucn. Funston to return to their
State mobilization camps three regi
ments from New York, two from New
Jcvscy, ono from Mnryliitid, two fiom
Illinois, two from Missouri, ono from
California, one from Uregoi, one from
Washington and otievfrom Louisiana,
making In nil nbout 15,000 of the
National lluurd.
In view of the fact that substan
tially this number of troops who have
not done patrol duty on tho border are
now on their way thete. It Is felt that
this number can be spared. In n few
da, If transportation facilities re
main undisturbed, the Department In
tends to order home some more regi
ments ir.d possibly to replace them
with troops now In their mobilisation
camps In the several States.
Tho regiments to bo sent home were
not designated by number, and It Is un
derstood that their selection l3 left to
i!en. Kunston.
There Is ii general feeling In Washing
to" ,hat ,hl9 oru;r ",',y lmvc a "e-irlng
n ,,. ....ire .it..,..i,... t.. ,..., .......
sorn It appears that the Administration
Is bringing home K,,000 seasoned militia
men to be returned to their respective
mobilization camp, well distributed
throughout the country and ready to
deal with any disorders that may occur
In connection with a strike.
Tho order bringing homo the troops
can hardly be executed anil the gunriir
men returned to their respective inoblll-
zatlon vamps before the dale when the
"!r!kc, oruCr ' to become .ffectuo at 7
" clock next Monday mornlnc. The Is-
nuance of the order at this time nukes It
,lke " notice to tho brotherhoods
who are threatening the strike that the
,.rc9llIellt , determined t embark upon
Important military movement In face
'f tho threatened Interference with
truffle.
In aiblllon to the National liirirdsmeu
the War Pep.M tiiM'til o-dnj oi.ti!' pmjm
ratloim for bringing back twenty-eight
companies of coast artillery to be re-
REPORT GREEK KIM
FLEES TO GERMANS
Joins riiliins Waiting for Him
Allies in Kattlc Willi His
Army, Says Drsiintch.
laiNPON, Aug. 31 (Thursday). Tho
British press representative at Salonlca
sends a report which Is current there
that King Constantino of (ireece has lied
l lo Uarlssa, In Thessaly. to take lefugo
with a guard or 300 fhlans, The text
of the message, which Is dated Tuesday,
reads: '
"Tills evening's sensation Is that King,
Constantlne has fb-d from Athens to
take tefugc with a German escort of 3nii
I'hlans. who have been wal
'everal days tit Uirlssa.
lilting for him
Another report Is that the Allies have
already landed a strong force at the
I'ineus ft lie port of Athens), which has
been heavily engaged with the Ureek
army In battle around tho King's ooun-
try houc at Tatol, where several Greek
princes have already fallen. Perhaps
to-morrow will bring moro light upon
the situation, which is extraordinarily
Involved, even for the Balkans.
The Bulgars have occupied 1'ninin
the Inst of the three towns In Greeco
they proa Ised not to occupy, and have
killed soma of the Greek garrison and
taken 120 prisoners,
According to a Renter despatch from
then lemobillzatlon of the Greek
rmv Is being considered, and also th
formation of a coalition Cabinet with
Venlzelos lii It. King Constantlne was
to have iccelved soon the deputation of
Venlzellsts bearing the demands or tne
recent meeting that Greeco aid the Al
lies. HARPIONIES PICTURE FOUND,
Kroner C Ilolilt Identifies Art
Work With Molt nl fjlinr Glass.
Cenrce C Boldt of the; Waldurf - As -
torla Hotel read the obituary notice of
Joseph llarplgnles lu yesterday's news -
'papers and It reminded him that a land.
scape which has hung In his private
drawing room for years has a signature
I ..n i.unln. n'ltl. mi "II." but Is nude
, , h ,,, wh ,ho ,mkt(1 P.,.. ,Io
..',,. ,,,, ,. rmii.. himself m net
, ' ' ,.., .,.. ..,.. ,he.ovver rlitht
hand coiner of tho can van. Yesterday
he did It and found thu work Is signed
"ilaiplgules."
It Is in for a cleaning and varnishing
nnd a new frame now. Mr. Boldt bought
the picture ear ago from a French
lenldent of New York who was "hard
up."
MOUNTED POLICEMAN LOST.
And In .Vevv burli, Too, lint Is Re
turned to Camp.
Nr.vvntiin. Aug. 3. Sergeant James
Lynch of tlie New York Police Depart
ment'li mounted squad got lost last
night, and In Newburgh. A detachment
of mounted officers Is on Its way to
tho Statu Fair at Syracuse and camped
last night nt Mouiitaluvllle,
Hergt, Lynch came to town to make
purchases and could not llnd his way
back. For ono thing, he did not know
the nnnie of the plaro where they wcro
camping. Finally ho applied to tho
local police for assistance and they
gave him a taxlcab driver for guide,
Lieut. David J. Murphy ami Michael
Walsh were about to start out hunting
for him when lie uppearcd at tlie camp
with thfe taxlcab.
Arthur Woods at Hln sling,
Ossinino, Aug. 30, Arthur Woods.
Police Commlbsloner of New York, and
Mrs Woods visited Sing Sing prison
to-day, tho first tlmo so far as recollec
tion of old prison attaches goes, thut a
New York Police Commissioner evtr has
been Inside the wU5.
REGIMENTS;
placed
by militia now In mobilization
camp:
It Is known that the flovernors of
many of the States have manifested un
easiness over tho strike situation and
Vhey find themselves without sulllclent
local troops to iiueli any dlsordcis of
serious proportions.
Tho plans for replacing the 'roops
that are being bought home with mem
lers of the National iluard now In mo
bilization camps presage a troop move
ment that Is likely to last for several
Mil-ML 1 1 11 1 I" lu l.m "i - . m
weeks and to demand a constant supply !
of cars. t
One effect of tho order Issued to-night '
It Is hoped, will bo to persuafio the ,
brotherhoods to agree to a postpone-
ment of the date for putting Into ef-
feet their stilke order to give tho Prcsl-
dent ami Congress a chance to work out
their ligishitlvo end of It.
Whtn the last census of the guard
was made It was found that there were
approximately 45,000 men along the
ltlo Oramlc from Brownsville to Nogales,
with half as many left behind at mo-i
blllzatlon camps or la the home armories. Thfi commissioner's plan content
New York leads with the greatest Hum-1 a , ngle genernl delivery of milk
bcr of men In service, about lf.000. i,ctn(.en the hours of 5 and 8 In the
While tho return of three regiments ntornlnt., nCUres he has obtained show,
from this Statu will have but llttlo effect I ,)e fMi t,,at 10 ,u,trbutlon could be
on tho organization of lien, ('Ryan's accmpllslied so cheaplv as to keep
division, thre are other States which' . .... ... ....,, . ti-illVc to th consumer
will be left practically unrepresented
on the border.
New York regiments at the border
are the Second. Seventh, Twelfth. Four
teenth. Twenty-third. Sixty-ninth. Sv-enty-tlrst
and Seventy-fouith. Three of
these are to be returned, which will
Iea at least i'.oOtl Infantry In service.
m. ...... . .. .... .. .... i t I
ine .M' iorK irouivs siariru ie;i uik lor i
the South on June "tl, when the Seenth,
Seventy-llrst and Fourteenth i nlrail ed.
The Twelfth left a couple of das later,
Hieii tho nttlllery, cavalry and medical ,
io.II. i jri' In ,.i,ml el l ie llr.t
brigade went, and (leu. ii'ltyan moved i
1,1s headuarte,s to McA.le.i. Tex., on ,
I
I'lttiston to Jlinr Troops sit Oni-p,
S.N Antonio, Tev. Aug. 3". The
11 rM iiiuM'iiKiit of National CuaidsuiHi
to their State i-.irps miy take jdiuo
within the next .Igiitceii hours, eleii.
F.oiei,,,. ...Id tu-r,!gki. It I." c:.;:r..-:c!
that the inoenient iiorthward will be
well under way by Filday or Saturday.
NOOSE USED ON OHIO;
OUDDTDD DV DTP lfADi'hus furnish large iiuantltles of fresh
dnEiillrr DI Dill luUD but,rr nh' i'Ui-iik.
paid to the farmers for their milk, ther
still will be getting slightlv les than It
0,000 at Lima St-ok Xi'ro Who
"Was Spirited Away After
Attaching Woman.
Lima, Ohio, Aug. 30. A heavily armed
mob of 3,000 nun placed n ropo around
tho neck of SheilfT Jlly and threatened to
hang him on Lima's main street comer
to-n'cht un'eia
ho dlvuked the hiding
place of Charles DauleN, a nrsro .pris
oner whom ho spirited away when the
mob burst Into the Jail to ielze the negro.
Panlels Is ehatged with nssaultmg Mrs.
John Barber, a while woman.
At lo o clock the mob, composed most-
ly of farmers from near Mrs. Barber's
country home, . armed with siiotgun, sur-
rounded tho Jail, ovcrpoweted the police
and the Sheriff's deputy and forced Its
way Into tho Jail, looking for the negro,
The- Sheriff's wife opened all tho cells,
but the negro was not found,
, Then the Infuriated mob noticed that
i Mierur r.iy was gone, anu wnen nc ie -
turned he was asked what he had done
with the negro. He refused to tell and
took refuge in his liou.e The nmb drove
hllil out and he hid lu the Llk Llllb.
The mob split up, some going lu uuto -
mou.ies in uie new miv ii..-i..iu. ....
the Criminal Insane, two tulles from
here, and others to search the court
houso clock tower, where a negro once
hid twenty years ago and was 1 inched.
When these parties reported to the
others, who with drawn icvolvers
still
watched the Jail, a howl was set up,
"Find the Sheriff!" Kly was found In
the Klt.s' Club and was threatened with
lynching If he did not give up his pils-
oner. He refused and was taken to a
lamppost with a itooso anout nis iicck.
The police tried vainly to icscuo him.
With his clothes torn oit and blood
streaming from a dozen cuts. Sheriff
I; y yielded to tlie mon, wnicn nan
' ,,ire.l ... rone about him to hang him
anj j,.ft town, presumably to take
, l0 hlood maddened men to tho hiding
,,,,. f the negro,
The mob left town In more than one
hundred automobiles. Illy was placed In
the leading machine. Ho suffered sev
eral broken ribs while leslstlng the mob.
H was knocked down and kicked In the
side.
Police Chief McKlnney and a number
of policemen were badly beaten. Tho en
tire lire department was called out, hut
arrived too lato to save Illy from the
mob. Driving three abreast and with
chemical tanks throwing liquid Into tho
crowd, the tiro engines charged down the
stieet .it twenty miles an hour Just In
time to K(o u motor truck with Kly
aboard disappear hoi thward.
STRAW HAT RUSH IN PARK ROW
Annual Arrival of 10 Cent Hay
Bring Its t'siinl Throng.
Park Row enjoyed Its annual straw
hat rush yesterday. A dealer In hats
on a certain day when cool weather In
dicates tho waning of summer puts up
a sign at noon: "All Straws 10 Cents."
That Is biilliclent for tlio policeman
on duty to telephone for the reserves.
By brulo strength the mob of men is
kept from pushing through tho window
and glass door. The bargainers are let
In a dozen at a time. After keeping the
men In lino for three hours yesterday the
policeman nt the head of tlie lino re
marked : "They're worse than women."
20 Perish as Nhlp Founders.
Nkw Oiii.kanh, Aug. .10, Twenty men
of the crew of twcntv-slx of tho Ameri
can steamer Admiral Claik, whleii sailed
from Port Arthur, Te.x,, for ' llueuoa
Ayres on August 11, perished when tho
steamer foundered August 16 In n tropi
cal hurricane. Six survivors nrrlvcd at
the quarantine station her to-day on
the Hwedlsh bark Tana.
STATE TO MARKET
MILK FOR FARMERS
Dillon Announces Finn
Give Dairymen One
Cent Knlsc.
to
X. Y. DEALERS MUST BUY
If They Balk, Food Depart
nnrtmciit Will Organize Own
Distribution System.
John J. Dillon, Commissioner of Foods
and Markets, will serve notice to-day on
New York mll'.t concerns that after Oc
tober 1 Instead of buying their milk
directly from the farmer thev will be
forced to set It through his department
, tfri.aM M price of approximately
one ccnl n man.
CommlMlonrr Dillon. In announcing
u,, drastic step In behalf of the farmer
yesterday, added the threat that If tnc
milk dealers defy his department and i
refuse to buy through him, be will ln-i
augurate nn elaboralo delivery system
of his own, covering tho entire city, lie
.ld he already had the names or nrms
.h ...tv,r.l in l.l.l for the contract.
,. . , , f ... 0 increase in the amount
the producer. 1'ersons wishing de
liveries at other hours will continue to
be taken care of by tho established
companies.
p (lr Jhr i,rnBne.
' .... , .
i..n,,tn i, cT oihij. :.o,i ..
" . i
kets. In taking oisr he s. ile "'T'-;
to the dealeis. Is acting for Dalrj-
men's League which roprefents iso.oju
neati " c.iu.r in '" " V
relins.MValll.l. .Massacnuseii.
nectl.-ut. Commissioner Dillon estimates ,
UmU.., j;'. "J.'"'","!,.;,'8,',1, J
t)iec live States; and that the dealers
I -V . ..t ,u ...nix r.lii.-r.i In
will iln.l It dltllcii.t to gel .impio sup-.
1 The mmiiloner said he had no
doubt of bis power to undertake the sale (
of milk as planned. All contracts will
bo made throiult him mid ni payments
IIKewlse Will !' ill..', lo ,l.,n .0 .li
turned over to the pro.lucrr. The dialer, '
however, will be able to buy from the
Jj
sani" dairy -as neiore.
'iTi,"iryfmo,,i"'e....Lrirv to ncht the
milk concerns by establishing a dlstrl- might ! extended seriously to passen
biitliiu sisteni operated by the State, a ' gcr tratllc. Travellers were warned to
i plant also will be constructed within the
I ..I... n .,l,.n ,.11 Mm &l,P,iltl. .nlllf nltfl !
I costs them lo produce," said Mr. Iilllon.
They aie getting an average of 3,
. ' V. w. I .. ...... ...
cents
quart now. wuiie ii cosis
cents
to produce
around. I persuaded them that It would
be better to take a little less than the
actual cot now rather than to put the
price so high that It would cause a de
crease In consumption."
Plan to I.ovver Cost.
If the dealer" asent to the new
sales methods, the lepartment of Foods
land Markets will endeavor to secure the
adoption or insinuation reiorms which
will lower the cost to the mass of eon-
sinners. It Is the Ixilef of Mr. Plllon
that this can be done by Having one
general delivery throughout the city In
I the morning at which the price will be at
I the minimum.
I For the later deliveries, which now are
made without extra cost to the con.
siliiier. Mr. Dillon suggests that a higher
price be made for the special service,
taking the burden off those who ate will
i lug to get their milk at the time of Hie
J geneial delivery.
The department may lsu nn order
Instructing the milk dealers to charge
, am, ,iroI.Pn ,,, :,B:,st tho
f u(,oril responsible Instead of making
.... ll.A ti.uu I., ,1... f,rl,M .till',
, Another nbuse' which the department
,.., nttenint to eliminate Is that urowiiiir
! ,.,., tint nnint Ipp nf 1;iiitlitt-u lit iim'
, npartment houses to sell the milk "con
cession" to the dealer offering them tho
most money. This incurs another ex
pense which the consumer has to bear.
Joseph Hartlg.iu, Commissioner of
Weights and Measures, returned to New
York yesterday from an up-State Investi
gation of the costs- of milk production,
He said sentiment among tlio dairymen
he Interviewed favored legislation giving
to some State commission the power to
regulate prices of dairy products at least
to ,.tent which will protect the
farmer against the necessity of selling
I m,s fl)r ,es t,,an ,t 0ost8 Mm t0 pr0.
jUec.
VICE-PRESIDENT ON STRIKE.
.Marshall Refuses to Prance for
Movies More Than Right Times.
WsiiiNOTON, Aug. 30. A strike that
threatened to bo almost as embarrassing
to the managers of tlie Democratic cam
paign us tlio railway dltllciilty occurred
ut th" Capitol this afternoon when Vice.
President Marshall stood for eight per
formances ns the maximum beforo tho
moving pictures camera.
"I have marched lu front of the
dam aged thing eight times und that Is
enough," said the Vice-President. "This
Is getting to be silly."
In vain tho Democratic Senate leaders
Importuned him, anil Senator James
Hum Lewis pointed out lhat It was "In
Hie Interest of the party."
Tho Vice-President was surrounded by
Democratic Senutors urging him to
"waddle around the ring" once moro
while the camera man turned tho crank,
but he refused. The enterprise was con
ducted under the auspices of the Demo
cratlo National Committee, which lias
obtained films of Speaker Clark nnd
House Lender Kltchln In the act of "ron
griitulatlng" new members of Congress
on their "achievements."
NO TRACE FOUND OF FAY.
All Trains Watched In Atlanta and
Vicinity.
Atlanta, Aug. 30. No trace had been
found to-day of "Lieut." Robert Fay,
sentenced to eight yeurs imprisonment for
..ntl.. .a l.lniL on .....nil I,... ul.t.i. nt tl.A
Allies at Now York, or William Knob -
loch, sentenced at New York for using
tho malls to defraud, both of whom cs
caped from the Federul prison here yes
terdny. Prison officials and police of cities
throughout thti section watohed all
trains and tearched Atlanta and vicinity.
ROADS OFNA TION ORDER EMBARGO;
8 HOUR BILL WILL AVERT STRIKE;
WILSON URGES DELAY OF 30 DAYS
Will Refuse Perishable
Freight Unable to Be De
livered Before Sept. 3.
WARNING IS GIVEN
TO PASSENGERS
Informed of Possible De
lays and Advised to Re
turn at Once.
TWO LINES HOPEFUL
OF RUNNING TRAINS
Lehifh Valley and Jersey ;
,, , . -....I
Central Will Tit to Con
tinue Operation.
All except two of the principal rail
roads In the I'nited States yesterday Is-
! sued announcements of embargoes on
1 freight duo to tho Impending strlko or
began lliial preparations for such nc-
t.oil. IIIO ro.ltl.-l WHICH peenied to PC ,
.., ,It.wl)0nt ,iK.le
opil.uistii, taMii tlio lcwpoliil tnelc
would bo tu stilke, were) the Central
Tho ro.td.-t which peetued to be
Radronil of New Jersev and tho I.chlch
Valley. '
Kmbargoes generally were tho me
on nil tho roads which ndoptcd such a .
r.muargoc.i generaiiy were inn rams
Freight nents were liotltlcd
course. Freight ngents were notified
to refuse to accept any live ttock. per-
ishable freight or r.ptosivo or Inllatn-
., ,,.,., .,, ,in.
..... i
IVT..I - in ll, f.r v.pxtntiiliof "I I
Some of the roads took the precau
tion to warn nascnuers the Mrike not
mly would affect tho freight lines but
Ret to their final destinations by mid
. . o
night of September
Subject to Brlnr.
"hlle some of the railroads deter
mined to accept some freight for de
livery In spite of the Impending Hrlko
:' nn men iowo. m ir-.m.i
uhleli ,ti!tl ,int l.o i.rfected hv lielav.
, .. ." ". .;.....:. i ,-,
roads warned consignees that all classes
of freight would bo subjected to delay
and possible loss due to the strike.
1,. 1. Smith, vice-president of the I.e- ,
high Valley, Issued a statement w!)leh
w.n Inclined toward optimism. This ,
roan lias not conieinpiaieu an rmu.iiKu ,
on any kind of fr.lglit.
I "The Lehigh Valley Railroad hopes i tilu r piovilinn has been hoarded,
, to b. able to continue the operation of The l'eiinsv Ivnula Railroad, It Is re
all Its trains without Interruption." said porn d. has i'.h.imiu men from which to
Air. Smith. "No one cm say deilintelv i s-elect its train ciews.
I what conditions we will face on Mon-
da .but we are preparing to meet what
, ,.Vl.r emergency may ari'e.
Should there be a considerable In
terruption In train service our tllM
thought will be regarding the n.ilk sup-
Ply of New ork city and nearby towns,
No effort will be spared to Continue our
part of the service of transporting milk
to the city. Second only to in'lk w;l l
the prompt movement of food for human
consumption and then fuel for public
Pui poses. Siliii passeimer Haiti" as may
be nivess.it y will b, operated, but milk
and food will come first,
I "At the
I plate shun
moxeiit we do not content-
shutting off the general movement
. ,dIl, It, , I., ,!.,,, ,,, ,,.,.1.1.. r,,,K
i line u'ln normal condition Just now- and
! we will ende ivor to !;cn it so.
"vc wiii-maue every ruort to limit a
strike to inch Intei ruptlons to train ser
vice as cannot po-sibly be avoided, and
all other work will be carried on as
usual."
Shore Boat to nun.
The Central Railroad of New Jersey
In an official statement Informrd Its
passengers not to worry and that there
"' " " " ' . ' .
gilaiiiutei to get nil of Its passengers
back to New York.
The steamships Monmouth anil Sandy
Hook of the Sandy Hook route will be
continued In service until after October
1. They will make six round trips
each weekday and tinee on SiiiiiIiijh. The
Heiiushlp Abuiy Park will be with
drawn after September 0,
lu spile of the optimism of these two
railroads It was apparent last night
that tho other roads did not Indulge In
the same hopes, liven the steamship men
admitted eommerc.i would b virtuahy
lit a Htandstlll If the strike weie .'ailed
on Monday. Due of the most serious of
nil the lesillts of the stllka discussed
yesterday by transatlantic steamship
men was the possibility that llurope.in
flelght tratllc would eomo to a Ktauil
stlll. The momentous effect of the freight em
bargo on explosives and Intliui'iiable
material to tho Allies, whose agents have
been shipping millions of dollirs worm
of material weekly, caused ominous
shakings of tho head In Wall Street.
Coastwise shipping agents said
that on account of the general embargo
on freight announced by tlm ruiltcuus
they would not accept nny freight f-.r
delivery except that which was ton
signed to points reached by watet,
The Pennsylvania Railroad, the Phila
delphia, Baltimore and Washington It. ill
loud and the West Jersey and Seashore
Railroad Company Issued tho following
announcement of einbaigoes:
"Item No, 1 Kft'ecHvo at cloro of
business day Thursday, August 31, 1 ill it
Kmburgo nil shipments on explosives
and Inflammables of every kind and de
scription. "Item No. 2 Kffectlve at closo of
business Friday, September 1, 11U6
Fmbargo all shipments of perishable
freight, Including live Htock, dressed
live beef. Ilvo and dre-ssed poultry and
fresh fruits mid vegetables,
Rem No. 3 r.ffectlve nt clo.o of
' buslnesi day Saturday. September 2.
I lOlfi. Kmbargo all fro ght of all kinds
for all points for all destinations
The Pennsylvania announced that as
soon as conditions wurranted after tho
strike was called these embargoes In
Continued on Second 'Xage,
t
ROADS PREPARING
SHOCK FOR UNIONS
Schools Opened for Strike
Breaker YVho Will lie
Used to Man Trains.
i
The larger railroads of the country
are preparing to give the brotherhoods
a shock next Monday morning, when the
i strike order becomes effeelle. This Jolt
I Is to bo Inflicted In two ways first by a
show of non-union Mrength for the
manning of trains; mid second. In the
' character and tiaiuliig of the men who
are to supplant tho strikers.
Many Indications of the preparedness '
of the roadn came to the surfare jester-
day. Tor one thing, It was noted In the '
ordering bf thousands of blue serge unl- I
oruering or iiionsanus oi niue sergi
'"" ' "e Yor" centra!
New Haven and the Tonus lvnnla.
il, the
Also '
itrmtcrs sent to the ollires of each of
' these roads thousands, of books con
taining the. rules and regulation".
Mrlkp llrnikliiir lrmi llnsr.
Kvery one of the !.!; strike breaking
firms In the metropolitan district began
to i ivi ult railroad tin-n yesterday. This
wax denied, but tho proof was so ol-
lous that denials became a iihto form.
l-'lually tloio were In full operation
dav nnd night rl.ies for men In and
, out of railroad r nplov at tho present
tune Tlieie welo vlase In roonil
lined with r.. Iro.ol nup-. .olor sheef.
,t.,..lw , n,.lri showlns
operation and v.trd detnila.
It was told m Tin: Sf;i yesl.rd.w that
euiinuy omi 01 ..-.
be utilized s oie of those wi ro under
in-iiucuou. mere wcrn Maiioniry i-
glnerrs ntid Mvineti as well as men
sl.Illed In I'licitiecriiiL; work l-or con-
,iUl ir8 there wc.o hu.i.lied- of bright
"' "'en re. rulled from the varioiw
) -,vp,.rtio trainmen and brakeim ri
i, t-ailiereil for the .lasses from
, n,., i..iH,r..rs ).. Ii.it n f'u.imi
" "
jptltuHe tor r.iilio.ul worK.
In - addition to thee the railroad
heads say lllot of their old cmplov ces
will remain ut wink bec.iutc of their
'opes of pensions. Also there will be
brought belt Into service letlred en
gineers who still have good eyesight
and are hound in other wnses. From
he smaller j steins men skilled in lo
comotive operation havo been drafted.
I'laii to Conserve Iloiitm
Tlio plan now Is to abandon one line
,. ...... '- " y.,r ' I pluti)) H to liave the utiiko begin III small
I. run parallel and to utilize tho unIlH Mwd ()f permitting the blow to
build with the utmost economy,,,,,, ., rolll(( !lt onc,. A j,(J. Ba!llCll
v. hen tw
force on
to reach the main arteries of travel
liP Weehawkeii l.it night l.oOO men
were recruited for the West Shoro Kali-
i... it-
toad, quarters have been provided for
them near the ards. For this purpoe ,
an old ferr.vbo.it has been vonvetted. All
'-' Physicians and oculists were tmsy
testing the health and eyesight of tho
strike bre.il.eis. Cooks have been en
gaged and n store of canned goods and
(accepted. It Is estimated that employ
ment has been given to .",,"0 men In
this vicinity for this gtiaid woik.
TRAIN PROMISED WILSON.
'resident (initiic to
Hsiy fet for
W.VS1I1NUTO.V, Aug. 30
Kentucky on
MrlLe.
President Wll-
sou is going alie.nl Willi his plans to
visit llodg.nville, ivy, .September to
incept tlie Lincoln farm lor the nation,
despite the fact that the railway strike
Is called for that day. Railway olllclals
an said to have assure,) I ho White
ii.-ii-e it ..in nuijm in. looviueo.
I he President goes to Long Rranrh.
N. J , Saturday to receive formally noti
fication of his nomination,
So far tlie strike crisis has not been
permitted to alter tho plans for either
trip.
GAFFNEY BECOMES UNPOPULAR.
Flood of Scurrilous Postals stent to
lllm nt Hotel.
T. St John Gaffney, former I'nited
States Consul at Munich, has achieved
The detective buieain of all the roads , ' , , " . ' . ', ,,, ,, . ,ime i and ' ... , r -'"T. !L " ,"-"''''l,"-
....,i....i kw v..rL- s ii.,,. .ii.. "f ,0'"1 "F ,l'('"lH, ' 1 ' "V". " "ml . settlement of i.tir dirrerencrs with tho
: , ' , , ... f)r ( )e ,n( u , c emmseiuii iiiem 10 , r;,u,,, ..... .,.r ..in ., ,,,..,
i trlcts jestirilay for able bodied men to ., , ,., ,,.,. I'"'1 there win no no it t lite
I net ns Guards in the r.-iltto.id vi.r.l r""' ,, I 1 i uer 10 prevent a sir so, how
an . , . .1 . raiiio.iu junis, , , the m ko problem , ,, ,,,, ., , ,,. ., , ,' , ..
terminal stations, ,.e Good pay and . ,..... .!.,. V" " 1 occomo .i law hi foie ,s
uiiarters were promise,) to the men who . ' , . ............ . ' ,"". . . .; !'" 'Il'"' R 'll e-iilre twenty-
Which must be a levelatlou lo him. The""" ; ',. "' ' ,V
newspapeis ,esterd.iy ipioied his rabid ' I! "J, ,?'"''. 102 ; let ejseo Central,
utterances nt length, and before the d.iv 1 .-',:i , IVx',"i,.i",l,l U9V,'-.n-"a:
was over a lloo.i of scurrilous post cards 1 Not them, l.l',t. West-
,.., ,,,., . . ,, . ,. rie.it. -nil. -si
addressed to him began to arrive at tliol'"", 1 ""'V ' 1 MV 'I'"' ""V
Hotel Wahlorr-Astoila,
Complaint was made to the postal an -
thurifies, who took tho cauls away and
Issued ordeis to postal clciks to 'stop
cards which might coulllct with the law.
NAVY BUILT FLIER A SUCCESS.
I'nele sinm's First Home Made
II) dronrroplnne Tried Out.
Wasiiinrton', Aug, 30, -The first hv
droicroplatio ever built by tin I'nited
States Navy underwent her preliminary
ttlal over the Potomac to-day. She ap
peared to i.e a wen n,ii, ince.i and to come
up to reipiiieuieni" In every particular
rim machine was mint at tho Wash
ington Navy Yard and Is of sufficient
size and strength to carry two pnssen
gers, a pilot and observer, besides a ono
pounder gun and approxlm itely liuO
pounds dead weight, Sho Is enulnpcd
with two 00-horse.powcr tractor Curtlss
motors.
ZEPPS BOMBARD BUCHAREST.
Appear Over City -1 Honrs Afler
War Is llrrlnred,
Bfi:ilAni:sT. Aug, SO, A Zeppelin and
ail aeroplane sailed over Hiiehnrest nn
Monday night, Just twenty-four hours
after the declaration of war tool; effect
nnd threw several bombs upon tlm city.
They did no damage, and tin ulrshlpi
were driven off by anti-aircraft guns.
Three other towns were also bombarded.
Aeroplanes thiew bombs also on Bait,
chic, liutrii mid Ninmtzu without doing
any damage.
CHEAT HEAR KPRINO ".VATIC It,
lie. th case ef six g stoppered bottlM.
.sn i
TO DELAY STRIKE
Railroads Will Apply for In
junction to Keep Men
at Work.
Federal law to tie Invoked br the
railroads to Interpose a double block on
the plan of the trainmen's brotherhoods
to tie up tho railroad trafflo of the
country next Monday morning. The
first of the obstructive methods will be
an effort to gain n delay of the strike
tluoiigh Injunction. It Is expected such
delay will go far toward breaking the
backbone of the strike, which ticces-
sarlly depends on concerted action for
effectiveness. The. second means will be
In tho uso of thi courts to force at
least 100,000 of the strikers to man their
train despite the. brothehnods' edict.
Until these methods, devised as a pri
mary step by the railroad board of
strategy now In t ashlngton, were
transmitted here yesteiday for execu-1
tlon. The operation of tho taw against
the union men will be applied for on;
Saturday, pet Imps to-morrow. j
i:mplo,cr Mnkea Application.
I
As n foteruuner of the Injunction
plan ile.pitthes vesterday noted the
grantlnt of a restraining order In the
State couit in Omaha against tho
trainmen of the l'tilon I'acltlc. Tho
court forbade the is-ii.nire, of the strike
order against tlm ro.nl on application of
a load I'ltiptoiro that the tleup would
Intlh't on him an injury against which
lie had no adcMUatD remedy in law.
oar , or, Uccn set for
,.,..., ,7,... .,
nj,lnr,n .rro as a work-
mK iri for inoM of the road", but the
...,t ... .., .. in
, , . ' ' ,? 'Z
inllrtM. Counsel for the roads will argue
that as Interstate cirri) r the Ffder.il
rouilH must give cognizance to such np
plle'.illous. Kffort's will be inailc toliave
tin liijiilictious l-ucd !is close- as pos
sible to September A. s their return
may be or ilncl for a day or two after
want. No doubt tests in the minds of tlie
legal talent of the toads that such tem
porary lujuuctloiiM will be granted. Uu-
111 II,.. .....rlt ,.t ,l,e "r..l..,.l. eon. loved
for obtaining this temporary delay arc i
tiitmed in court .i htav would he Imposed :
on the rojds. A multiplicity of suits
also would brliw further delay.
The Intention back of thrne Injunction
plans Is to have the tliko begin III small
at this Juncture gives every rood enjoy
Inc the added i;i:n o a greater advantage
... ,i ., ,-t u ... u,,.i.n
" '" - " " -
Contempt l'lnn .lo Benily.
This move of course will be combated
with nil the vigor the brotherhoods cm I
.Munition. In n uieflMiie they have been i
lu propatatliiii for Just such a move, and I
will tiy to nullify the action so fur as
.possible. However, the toads have an
other means, of galinitg deiav. lu broad I
States sevontv. live roads are lu the hands
of receive,-. The mileage thus under
court ttlle It. tO.oOo. Tlie number of
trainmen on these roads who ore af-
fllaited with the brotherhoods Is about
lon.oMii, 1.,'iieseiitlng one-ipiaiter of the.
full lltl.ou stiengtll.
When these mads went Into Insolvency!
thev were taken over by Federal courts
and receivers were appointed from tho
t'nitcd ; -hates bench. These receivers by
tins authorization became agents and
1 ni),r,.is of tho court. I'lllelally they
stand ns the courts themselves. There-1
f,,.. in the theory of the railroad strate-,
BMs. evi rv man woiklng on the.-! roads i
. o, tle elllplov ef tin I illicit .states nllll
bv the terms of his employment subject
to couit nuthotlty.
Ilonils In Receiver
llnnil.
Tho following gives tin ti lines and
tnileaKs of roads now lu the hands of
i'nited States receivers:
Rock Island. T,s5t . Salt Lake and San
Fiancis.M, 1,7 49 i Boston mid Maine,
2.301. Pen .Mnniuette, 2.313; Chicago
and Eastern Illinois, l,22, Chicago,
llnmllioii nnd Dayton. 1.011; Wheeling
and Lake line, .'..112: Toledo, St. Louis
land Western. LIO; Pittsburg, Shawinut
, .. , .1.1 . .
,'.". .. ...... ie.,
1 1 '7"''1 s'-. I'"lli'' ;''.'
I '"Icaiis levas and Mexico. 2... ;
' Mlwurl nnd .North Arkansas, ji... , js.
! '"u Oklahoma and i.ulf. 334 ; '.
I Lotus, .sail I'raueiseo nun icxus, ,'ta;
Trltiitv ..nil Itril'os Vllllev. ?.17 . Missouri
Kansas and Texas, 3,D3ii: Missouri Pa-
cine. 1 . St. l.ouis, iron Mountain
! i,ml Soulliern. .l. ,t.,. ; Alabama. Ten-
n.ese.. un. i .x'luiero, i ;m ; .vpp.uaciliail
and Northern. U2; Beaumont. Sour Lake,
unl Wei-tern, ll'.i. Butfalo and Susoiie
I'ltliim, P0 ; Cnpu (iliaideau, 10i', ; Cu.
eluuatl, llluffton and CiiUago, r.2. Den
vr l.iinnul. and Northwestern, d; ;
Florida Railway, 55 ; Fort Smith and
Western. 2&0; Fort Worth and Rio
(irande, "3.". ; lieoigia und Florida, 320:
loan,, noinmio. ..n , ..uuiriiiiin unu
Northwestern. 121: Orange and North-
western. 1,2; I'acltlc and Idaho, 0; Pitts,
burg,
Lisbon and Western. 31; Sail An-
tnnlo, t.'valdo ninl fililf, 31(1 : Tennessee
Railway. jI; Wabash Pittsburg ler -
inlnnl, 1,3, I
In addition to these named there are
thirty-two other small roads which ag
gregate a funded debt of 11,000,000 and
u mileage of l,0ir..
$8,000 BANK ROBBER CAUGHT.
Driven to Frisco Police Station In
Car He Commandeered.
S.V.N- FitANiisco, Aug, 30. A robber
who gave his nnmo as Jack llvans of
Chicago held up a branch of the Anglo
California Bank here to-day. obtaining
$S,nnn, He fled In a commandeered an -
tnmnblle, pursued by Lmll Sutter, bank
teller.
Tho chauffeur drove him to the Park
police station five miles away, where the
robber was made prisoner.
, .,v tliv .M.,-. ,,v ,,.. ... ., . LOUTH Hie OH IO ,..-. ,,...! .n, k.rllr.. ..
Head of Trainmen Says Ao
tlon by Congress Can
Alone Prevent Strike.
ACT MUST REPASSED
BY SATURDAY NIGHT
Rate Increases Yielding
$20,000,000 Annually Or
dered Suspended.
TRAINMEN ARE FIRM
IN DECISION TO QUIT
Strong Pressure Ts Being
Brought by Gonipers nnd
Secretary Wilson.
WASiit.vnTON", Auir. 3C Knnctmnt
of a law fixing nn eight hour day U
tho present ten hour wngo for train
men engaged In IntrrMnte cotiitrcrce, If
accomplished before Saturday mid
night, will avert the railroad strike,
nccuidlng to an unequivocal htnte
nient to-night by W. (!. t.cr, head of
tho Trainmen's llrothorliood. Hrmls
f ii., ntlier m-lroiil niiiilovees or
' l"e "ll,rr iroaii rniiioces or
ganlr-atlons nlu were obviously
pleased with the bill after giving tin,
draft their eareful .study.
Tip bill unfit become law beforo
Saturday midnight, it !. imlnted out,
because It will laid twenty-four hours
tu nnenl Hie, nil ike, order setit nut
las Sunday, which will go into effect
automatically on Monday unless
stopped.
Whether Congress, lu view of tills
PlCtlge irolll IPO IIIIIOIIS. Will lltll IV tliei
cfclit hour bill through was ptoblcmatlcal
to-night. In the shadow of tho national
threat Congress set llulf to-day to tho
tusk of doing what It could toward tarry
ing out I'icsldeiit WIImiii's legislative
programme.
i:inereney Kxpeillent Only
But to-night no detinlte. conclusion li.nl
b(en reached. Mid It seemed probublo
that If any ineasuio weie pasrcd It would
bo an mergence expedient designed to
tave oft the ttilku rather than ft tlnil
nnd i-ouvdete pro-jramino Midi us tho
I'lesldent nsked.
Lee's statement on the effect tho pas-t-uge.
of the eight hour bill would havo
follow s :
"Ihi.u tment Into law of tho Presi
dent's eight hour day bill as now drawn,
guaranteeing dm present ten hour day
ever,
Satur-
four
..In.
M.,lt , ,,,t suiidnv. whl.li will auto'
IIlat0.,,. F ,,,, c,:n (,xt ,01ulay un.
,,. M..j i,v ,. ,..,,, .....,
four brotherhood beads Indicating that
a F.ltlsfactoiy settlement has been
leached,
"The minute Hie bill becomes n law
If such n thing should transpire beforo
next Saturday mailt wo will begin
sending out the code message. Willi
that time allowance we ,,, ai.suro ,h
country that not a man will leave hit
train on Monday ut 7 A. M Lastcrn
lime, the hour now ect for u strike.
Bendy for Arbitration.
'The bill as now drawn contains) ex
actly the same proposal the President
made to us a week ago und uhl h wo
accepted. Wo are leady to urbltrato
collateral Issues now, and we awas
have been, Let that be made very clear
to the public.
"Whether there will be a strike Is now
siiu.-uely up to Congress. If this bill Is
talkrd to death or prevented from pass
ing both houses before Satuiduy mid
night by oratory or other methods of
, delay responsibility for the strike order
going ml., eflect wld lest not with us
but with Congies., It has plenty of
nine i,u in w hich to pass this bill, '
Strong pressure will bo brought by
President Wilson on the brotherhood
leaders to get I'.e.u to move for a post
ponement of the date of th strike ordir
for nt least thirty days. The licsident
will work through Se.ret.ny of Labor
Wilson and Sauuiel Goinpeis-. president
of the Anicilcan F. deration of Labor.
Wilson Programme ".reins Boomed.
At the end of a day of deliberation nnd
Informal conferemes among tho Congres.
slonal leaders tlio conviction prevailed
that tlie Pi 'sklent legislative pro-
I'fttmnn svinn.it l.u .-.-1 ... I
,iw stands. ". "ui
The Senate Cmmlltrr on Interstate,
Commerco iiiinounceil, after Senator
Newi.inilN had made public the tentative
draftsof bills drafted in conformance witli
the President's suggestions, that It would
hold public hearings to-morrow at which
thiee hours each Would bo chen Ilia
1 renreseiital v es nf lh.. ,.lle.,,.l. 11...
railroad emplovrc and the public to
present (heir views nf tlm nrobte,,,.
On th.. Hon, ..f n, u,... ...... ....
contioversy was ma da tho oecslon f..e
1 a tumultuous dlseusslon. Some Senatn..
declared that C.overnment ownership wan
the only ultimata remedy for the con.
tlnuous strife between the railroads ant
meir empio.vers, .senator cummins ns.
seueu in a leugiuy speech that com.
pulsory arbitration was Impracticable.
Ilate Incrrnies Suspended.
Proposed Increases In transcontinental
freight rates fiom tho IVist to Inter
mountain territory and from the Paelfln
coast to thu ll.ist, which Is was estimated;
would bring the railroads about twentv
million dollars a vcar additional tevenua
wero suspended to-dav bj the Intrrstnt
1 Commerce Commission for further In.
vestlgatlon, They were to have becoma
enecuve runny.
The commission suspended the rate
until December 30, pending the Inve.tU
gatlon to determine the rcteonablenees,
