E ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, AUGUST 31, 1916
T W ENT Y-SEVENTH YEAH ; 8
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 105
T7FT71
TEL
TTYTTiWri TirTTriT FTAOv Tilt 7 A
WILECOMESS
mm
m wm in wa
Rumania's Invasion of Austria -Hungary Unchecked
BBIAR1ENTS
ARE ANNOUNCED
AT MANY POINTS
SHERIFF
HIDES NEGRO IS MOBBED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Rumania's invasion of Austria-Hun-parian
territory continues in the
mountainous region from Petrozzny,
tin the railway northeast of Orzove to
the Gyergic mountains, eighty miles
north of Kronstadt.
On the Danube, from the Iron Gate
to Giurgevo opposite Kustichuk, Bul
garia, there have been reciprocal bom
bardments at several points by Austro
Hungarlan warcraft and Rumanian
Hhore batteries. A Zeppelin and a
hostile aeroplane have dropped bombs
on the Rumanian capital.
Austria's acknowledgment of the re
tirement of her forces In the mOUn-
liiniOUa irglllll IU 1 I Y FllUlv .
positions in the rear has been followed I
by claims by Rumania that the troops
of King Ferdinand have arrived at a
point within three miles of Kronstadt,
the chief commercial city of Transyl
vania. Vienna admits that the Ru
manians are engaged with the Aus
trians in the Gyergyo mountains, which
shows that off the northwestern front
of Rumania hostile forces have in
vaded Transylvania some twenty-five
miles. The Rumnians also are near
Koedzl-Vasurchely, about, forty miles
northeast of Kronstadt.
While Bulgaria has not entered into
hostilities against Rumania, a news
agency dispatch says Rumania has de
cided to send an ultimatum to Bul
garia demanding the evacuation of
Serbia. A dispatch from Constantino
" pie indicates that Turkey has declared
war on Rumania.
In the Macedonian theater violent
fighting continues between the entente
allies and the Austro-Germans and
Bulgarians. On the Struma front, near
Lake Doiran, batteries of the entente
have violently shelled Bulgarian posi
tions. Drama, in the northeast of Greece,
has been seized by the Bulgarians
after a fight with Greek troops, ac
cording to tinot'fioial4Yices. An Al
banian detachment under Essad Pasha,
lias arrived at Saloniki to aid the
entente forces. An unofficial dis
patch from Athens says the re-mo
bilization of the Greek army is under
consideration.
Except for an extension of the Brit
ish lines south of Martinpuich on the
Somme, there has been little activity
except by artillery on the part of any
of the belligerents on the western bat
tle line. . .
In the Carpathian region the Rus
sians have captured Ranker mountain
and Rafaluv, , near the Hungarian
border.
! MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS
! FOR HUGHES CAMPAIGN
I
i NEW YORK. Aug. SO Six
j recommendations in refeVenre to
the conduct of the presidential
j campaign of Charles E. Hughes
i were made to the national com- j
mittee by the recently appointed j
1 advirorv committee at its first
meeting here today. The nature I
: of the suggestions was closely
I guarded. Another mooting of the I
i committee will be held nt Chicago .
: ;ibout September IS. Chairman j
' Wlllcox left tonight for Indian-
! aixills to attend the notification of i
i Charles W. Fairbanks of his nom- j
I ination. for vice president. He
: will m tn St Louis for a confer- i
' ence with Mr. Hughes on Sunday
tit
missing from
THE I1PI
IS KICKED ID
BEATEN BY IB
THEN OWED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LIMA, 0.. Aug. 30. Enraged at
the success "of Sheriff Sherman
Eley in spiriting Charles Daniels,
a negro, accused of assaulting
Rumanians Make Progress
BUCHAREST. Aug. 29. (via Lon
don, Aug. 30.) Rumanian troops have
made progress in their crossing of the
Austio-llungarian frontier and have
reached several points, including a
village east of Kronstadt, says an of
licial statement given out by the Ru
manian war office today. More than
730 prisoners already have been taken.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. ;'.0. Reports
to the navy department tonight said
33 enlisted men were missing, most
of them probably drowned, four were
known to be dead, two officers and
six men seriously injured and 67
others hurt as a result of the wreck
ing of the armored- chulser Memphis
a hurricne yesterday in San Dom
ingo City harbor.
Mo'-t of the missing were in a
small boat overturned by wind and
waves while returning to the Mem
phis. It is believed by the navy de
partment perhaps a dozen of these
may vet be alive on shore.
The cause of the wreck has not yet
he?n explained fullv in messages from
Rear Admiral Pond, in command at
San Domingo, and an Investigation
will he started by navy officers soon
A message from Admiral Pond to
night said:
Sea smooth. Memphis solidly
nshoie. eight feet out of water. Work
:nc party on board securing record?:
and landing stores. Crew quartered
in town. Hospital facilities ample.
From first Indinaton of trouble until
hio struck less than one hour."
No word has been receved of the
nnT tiir Pntnmnc which left San
llnminn -roi-flv before the storm.
but it was believed she is safe. The
SAY EIGHT-HOUR LAW
WOULD AVERT STRIKE
Mrs. John Barber, young wife of
a prominent farmer, out of their
reach early this morning, a mob
tonight caotured the sheriff, seri
ously wounded him. placed a
noose around his neck and forced
him to direct a cortege of one
hundred automobiles into the
rough country north of this city
where it is supposed the neoro
prisoner has been hidden. The
motor mob with Sheriff Eley was
not located at a late hour, after
deserting the scene where they
had overpowered the Lima police
and fire department, broke into
the jail, the court house nd the
residence of the sheriff and
caused the sheriffs wife to flee
with her baby in her arms.
The mob formed around the Lima
jail before dusk and leaders demand
ed admittance. Chief of Police Kin
ney called out his entire for;'e but the
officers were overpowered in a hand
to hand fiHht, though the mob was
heavily- armed. It was announced
that the negro had been taken by
Sheriff Eley to the Ohio state hospital
for the criminal insane and that the
lull was guarded hv but one deputy
and the sheriffs wife. Refusing to
accept the announcement the mob
forced Mrs. Kley to open the ceils.
o'clock and was met t;v the mob atl!ers ot
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. Railroad
brotherhood heads were pleased to
night after a careful study of the pro
posed bill to fix an eight-hour work
day for trainmen in interstate com
merce at present wages, and for an in
vestigation of results by a commission.
W. G. Lee, head of the trainmen's
brotherhood, made the unequivocal
statement that enactment of such a
law by midnight Saturday would avert
the strike.
He said: "Enactment into law of
the president's eight hour day bill as
now drawn, guaranteeing the present
ten hour wage, will be regarded as a
satisfactory settlement of our differ
ences with the railroads and there will
be no strike.
"In order to prevent a strike, how
ever, this bill must become a law be
fore Saturday night. It will require
twenty-four hours for us to cancel our
strike order, sent out last Sunday,
which will automatically go into ef
fect next Monday unies's stopped by a
code message from , us four brother
hood heads. .
"The bill as now drawn contains ex
actly the same proponii the president
made to u.-Ta week ago and which we
accepted. We are ready to arbitrate
collateral issues and we always have
been. Let that be made clear to the
public.
"Whether there will be a strike is
now squarely up to congress. If this
bill Is talked to debate or prevented
from passing both houses before Sat
urday night by oratory, or other
methods of delay, responsibility for the
strike order going into effect will rest
not with us, but with congress. It has
plenty of time left in which to pass
this bill." ' 1
TO REORGANIZE
MULES FOR
BORDER DUTY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS AMERI
CAN PUNITIVE EXPEDITION, MEX
ICO, Aug. 30. Three hundred Car-
PREPARING
ALL ADMINISTRATION INFLUENCE
IS
T
T
W
TO BEAR TO AVERT
U STRIKE
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. All the influence of the
administration was brought today to persuade the rail
road brotherhoods to cancel the order for a nation-wide
strike Monday while leaders in congress began paving
the way for legislation designed to prevent or stop the
threatened industrial catastrophe. Little progress was
made in either, but nevertheless in official quarters to
night there still prevailed confidence that in one way or
another the walkout would b e averted.
To the spokesmen of President Wilson who ap
proached them, all of the brotherhood officials gave the
same reply: that they had no power to recall the strike
order nd that only one thing a satisfactory settlement
could keep the men at work after 7 a. m.," Labor day.
Further pressure will be brought to bear, and as a last
resort the president is considering a public appeal to the
men themselves to have the order rescinded.
TO
OPPOSE STRIKE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, August 30. Throughout
the entire country today the railroads
gathered their forces to oppose the
! strike set for next Monday A sum-
ranza troops have appeared at garri-1 mary of the situation made by E.
sons at Casus Grandes, Pearson and R'P'ey. president of the Santa Fe, who
other small towns near the headquar- I was a member of the committee which
the American punitive expedi- conferred with President Wilson, in-
a : ronuitt an T no nncci m ium To I r noro
the city limits. They demanded that I , , . . . ' . i ' . , , ,
he deliver the prisoner or tell where " was 'earned here today that at- Mr. Ripley assertd that the railroads
he was hidden. The sheriff reached I tempts are being made by the de facto can now see no hope of a settlement
government io reorganize ine ouraies. neiore iaoor aay ana are maKing every
the military police with which Porfiio effort for eventualities. Practically
Diaz conti oiled ihe section. i every important road in the country
The attitude of the Carranza troops gave notice of embargoes or was pre
toward the American command has paring to give them. They affect per
been friendly an dno Mexican force has ishable freight and live stock, which
garrisoned Colonia Dublan, the Mor- at present constitute about one-third
mon village, midway between the the freight traffic on most western
headquarters cam and Casas Grandes.
The arrival of the troops under the
command of Colonel Ricardo Cortinas,
originally of Durango City, followed a
recent trip of inspection of General
Gabriel Gavira, inspector general of
his residence and rerused to give up
he negro. The mob then broke in
the front door as Eley escaped
through a rear entrance.
He was caught when enter the
Elk's home and attacked. His clothes
were stripped from his body and he
ivai battered and kicked by the mob.
Two of his ribs were broken. A rope
was taken from the trolley of a street
car. and the noose placed about his
ieek. Fley held out even after the
mob had' thrown the noose over the
ross arms of a telephone pole.
Kit! the 'nigger protector, yelled
t-
the mob as the crowd swayed over
jcout cruiser Slem was ordered to I the sheriff, knocking him to the pave
San Domingo today to replace the j ment and preventing tiiose who held
wrecked vessel which was Admiral i the rope from stringing him up on
Pond s flagsnip. The transport Dixie the noose.
which has been ordered to proceed to
tht scene to pick up the Memphis
crew, will touch at Key West tomor
row to land Luis Cabrera, president
of the Mexican commission and S(ee
;al Agent P.odgers, who are coming
rom Mexico City1, before heading for
Emperor' Imperial Order
BERLIN, Aug. 3U. (Via London)
The Imperial order of Emperor Will
iani removing General Krlck von Kal- San Ikimingo.
kenhayn as chief of the general gtaf f Early reports from Admiral Ponl
roads us follows: j were taken by navy officials to indi-
"Not wishing to oppose your desire Icate that the storm was of such force
to be relieved of your office, I seize (that It created a series of tidal waves
the opportunity to thank you heartily r which drove the Memphis across a
for the devotion and loyalty you Have; long stretch or shallow water to her ari.ivert as the mob was starting
The lvnch-crazed feet of many men
crushed the sheriff, snapping ribs and
tearing his flesh until he cried out
that he would tell where the negro
was secreted. Then the sheriff was
lifted to an automobile truck, and
rioters dashed awav in the direction
indicated by the sheriff.
While the mob hold Eley prisoner
under the telephone pole. Chief of
Police Kinney called upon citizens to
ioin his force but they refused. The
fire department was called out but
roads, and passengers.
The party of high railroad officials
who came back to Chicago today in
cluded Mr. Ripley, who was chosen
spokesman; W. li. Storey and E. D.
Small, vice presidents of the Santa Fe;
the Carranza forces. Announcement A. J. Earling, president of the Chicago,
was made by the Mexican authorities
that the soldiers will be supported by
a newly formed command of rurales in
the Galena district.
displayed during the past two years
to your heavy and responsible office
to which you have devoted all your
strength and Innitiative. What you
especially accomplisned in your ener
getic and foreseeing labor end in your
indefatigable forethought for the army
and t-.e fatherland never will be for
got ton."
The initial attacks against the Aus-tro-Hungarians
on the Rumanian bor
der, were everywhere defeated, says
the Overseas news agency.
Turkish troops are advancing step
by step in the Caucasus aid have
broken the resistance of the Russians
who occupied dominating heights. One
Turkish detachment, it is said, found
IdOO Russian doa' on the hattlefield.
German troops in the region of the
Somnie river, 'repulsed strong British
nttacks along n line from Ovillers la
Vozleres und between Guilemont and
Mausepaii Inst night.
Pritish detachments which pene
trated the German positions at points
novth of Ovillers and Pozieres were
defeated In hand to hand fighting.
resent renting place at the foot of
the rocky bluff upon which San Dom
ingo City stands. Wrecking compan
ies will he asked to studv the ves-1
pel's plight and determine whether I
-.ho may be saved.
away. The motor tire stnicss were
run three abreast down the streets,
throwing chemicals on those of the
ranh that had not joined the motor
(Continued on Page Two)
HUGHES AFTER BRIEF VACATION
1 RESUME CAMPAIGN T
Republican A.
ESTES PARK,
New Verdun Attack
PARIS, Aug. 3d. The French
launched another attick on the Ver
dun front east of Fleuiy irst night
and made further nrogress.
"The city of Drama in northern
Continued on Pkk Twnl
P. Leased Wlrel . i
Colo., Aug. SO.
Charles V.. Hughes, republican nomi
noss for president, who has been
spending a brief vacation here, will
resume his campaign tomorrow. His
itinerary, announced tonlerht, will give
I'm little rest until election day", un
less his plans are upset by the
threatened railway strike.
On his return east. Mr. Hughes
plans to reach Portland. Maine, Sep
tember 8. After a brief campaign in
New England. Mr. Hughes plans to
reach Pridgchampton. N. Y., where
he is to remain until September is.
A second tour westward is to begin
on that date, which will extend as
Troops to Juarez
EL PASO, Aug. 30. More than a
thousand Mexican troops have arrived
in Juarez recently from the south.
many of them being detailed to border
patrol duty. In anticipation of the ex
pected withdrawal of the American ex
peditionary command, it has been an
nounced at the commandancla in Juar
ez, others have been sent to garrison i word
the towns alone General Pershink's
line of communication. Colonel Cort-
nas command was withdrawn re
cently from Tamaulipas.
Milwaukee and St. Paulr W. J. Jack
son, receiver for the Chicago and Eas
tern Illinois; R. H. Aishton, president
of the Chicago and Northwestern; H.
B Kurrie, president of the linnoii;
Louis W. Hill, president of the Great
Northern ; Geo. T. Slade. vice president
of the Northern Pacific, and W. G.
Bierd, president of, the Chicago and
Alton.
Mr. Ripley's face had fight written
all over it when he worked his elbows
through the crowd at the station and
the expression translated itself into
n his subsequent statements
Burn Widow Alive
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex., Aug. 30.
Reports received by military au
thorities here tonight said that when
the Villa bandits captured the town
of Satevo, fifty miles south of here,
last Friday, they burned a widow
named Ruiz alive and shot her son,
Augnstin Ruiz. It was charged, ac
cording to the reports, that the two
had given information to officers of
the American expeditionary column
when it pursued Villa through that
He gave three statements. The first
was issued formally as the expression
of the party which returned from
Washington, the second was addressed
to employes of the Santa Fe and
warned those who might obey the
strike order that they would lose all
rights of seniority and of benefits from
insurance and pension funds. The
third was Mr. Ripley's plan for meet
ing the strike and an analysis of the
railroads' side of the controversy.
The three constituted a blast of de
fiance to the brotherhoods, to whose
"unreasonable arrogance" he attrib-
(Continued on Page Two)
The senate virtually conceded the
emergency revenue bill for an all-day
debate on the crisis, while the inter
state commerce commission arranged
for hearings beginning at 9 o'clock to
morrow, when representatives of both
will be heard. Three hours will be
given to each side, and then the com
mittee will begin drafting legislation
into shape for presentation to the sen
ate Saturday.
One dominant thought in the minds
of the members of congress generally
resulted in the introduction late today
of a resolution by Senator Lee. of
Maryland, calling upon officials of the
railroad brotherhoods to postpone the
strike order for one week to give con
gress sufficient time fo intelligent con
sideration of legislation suggested in
President Wilson's message. The res
olution was referred to the interstate
commerce commission without discus
sion.
The interstate commerce commission
discussed the proposed legislation late
in the day, but postponed action until
after tomorrow's hearings. In - the
meantime word came from the house
that Representative Adamson and Ma
jority Leader Kitchin had concluded
that the eight-hour day law could be
passed through the house.
Tentative drafts of measures sub
mitted to the senate committee and
communicated to all parties to the
controversy during the day, include
the following provisions to be attached
to a pending bill which would enlarge
the interstate commerce commission:
Establishment of eight hours as the
standard for a day's work for railroad
men operating trains in interstate
commerce, and the appointment by the
president of a wage commission, three
members to observe" the administration
and financial effects of the eight-hour
day, the president to submit is rec
ommendations to the interstate --m-
merce commission, which would ad"-st
their rates: wages of employes rot to
be reduced, for a period to be deter
mined, below the present standard
day's wage, pending the report, and
pro rata proportion to be paid for ser
vice in excess of eight hours; the com
mission also to study and report on
the problem of compensation for rail
road emoloyes.
Amendment of existing arbitration
laws directing the board of mediation
and conciliation, if unable to induce
parties to submit controversies to arbi
tration, to refer differences to a board
fo- investigation pending decision of
which it would be unlawful for em
oloyers to cause a lockout or employes
to cause a strike: each party to a con
troversy to name one member of the
board on investigation which would
consist of three members.
Empowering the president whenever
railways engaged in interstate com
merce or in transportation of the
mails shall cease to operate or be seri
ouslv interrupted because of, a strike
to direct operation of railroads suffi
cient for military purpose-.- to draft
sary and to use the military forces of
the nation.
Veterans Hold the Annual
Camp Fire and Parade
t Republican A. P. Lea ted Wlrel
KANSAS CITY. Aug., 30. With the
nrnunl parade held during the day
and the "camp fire" at convention
hall tonight, today was the climax
of the annual encampment of the
Grand Armv. Thousands of veterans
marched throiiRh streets proud that
another year had found them still a
member of the blue clad army.
The parade was r.nt without Its
toll. Dozens of feeble marchers wer
prostrated along the route. Most of
the marchers were revived at emer
gency stations or hv the Hoy Scouts
who patrolled the line of march with
first aid kits. Six cases required hos
pital attention.
The parade was almost three hours
In passing the reviewing rtand. Th
veterans marched slowly, singing the
songs of fifty years ao and shouting
''hind the fife and drum corps.
jiany m ine veterans later were taken
on a motor tour of the city.
Tonight thev crowded into conven
''nn hall for the meeting complimen
tary to Major Wililam Warner, of
Kansas Pit v. former commander in
chief. Business sessions of the auxil
iary organization .were started dur
ing the afternoon.
'ar westward as Omaha, and may in-
lude trips to Arizona, New Mexico
and Texas border points.
The present trip eastward is to be
made bv way of Kansas City, St.
T,oiiis, and contemplates a dip into
Tennessee and Kentucky.
,Mr. Hughes wi'.l leave tomorrow
for Lovelund. Colorado, where he Is
i address the Laramie- County Fair
Hefore leaving Estes Park he is to
ieliver .1 non-political address.
Mr. Hughes is to leave Loveland at
5:10 p. m. Thursday and arrive in
Denver at 7:30. leaving at 9 p. m.
for Topcka, where he will delivera!i
address at the state house grounds.
He will leave at 3:50 p. m. f-
Kansas City where- he will make a
nleht addres at Convention Hall.
The partv will leave Kansas Citv at
U p. m. for St. Louis, arriving Sat
urday morning.
Leaving St. Louis at 9:20 p. m.. Mr
Hughes plans to reach Nashville.
Tenn.. on the evening of Monday,
September 4.
The plans of the nominee from
September 4 are contingent upon the
developments in the railway strike
situations.
The l:wt two weeks of his campaign
is to be spent in NflW York state
closing with an address November
4 in Madison Square Garden, New
York City.
Mr. and Mrs. Huehes today left
their nartv for a mountain climb.
More than ten thousand feet above
pea lvel they journeyed alone to
Bear Lnke. Returning to their auto
mobile, thev encountered a snow-
into federal service all persons neces-
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Young Bandit
Gets Rich Haul
But is Caught
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 30. A
youthful bandit who robbed the Mis- j
sion branch of the Anglo-California
bank here today of $8,000 in gold and
who later was captured in the Golden
Gate park after an automobile chase
and running revolver duel tonight
gave the police his name as 'Edward
von Walden and said he was the son
of a Cincinnati physician. He alo
said he recently opened an office to
pngage in the store fixture business in
I. os Angeles, where at the present
time he has two stenographers and
several salesmen in his employ.
I came to San Francico by bont
f-om the south Monday," he said,
"and locked over several hanks In
tending to make a loan. I took notice
cf the amount of money usually on
their counters, le-irned the time they
we-e least crowded with customers
ind finally selected the Mission
hank."
Wnlden drew diagrams showing the
interior arrangements of various local
banks be examined.
Walden said lie participated in n
robbe'-v of the Metropole Hotel in
Detroit pome time am and was sent
lr the Michigan reform school at
Ionia for ten years. last July ho
NT COMPLETE
NG TO PREVE
PARALYSIS OF R. R. TRAFFIC
storm. It was after "ark wnen tn? eicnneu by hiding on a truoit ioaa oi
party returned to the hotel. chairs. i . .
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1
NEW YORK, Aug. 30. Representa
tives of New York City and tis vari
ous industries were making feverish
efforts tonight to prevent a complete
paralysis of traffic in the event the
threatened nation wide strike. Mil
lions of persons may be thrown out of
work almost immediately if the strike
becomes a reality. With the tieing up
of the railroads, steamship service out
of New York and other American
ports, particularly freight would be
taxed to its utmost.
Embargoes declared by the various
roads already are having a serious ef
fect on commerce it was said.
While there has beeu accumulated
in many of the terminals here suffi
cient cargo to load ships now in port,
vessels on their way here uv loubtedly
will face an immediate rtage of
cargo. The loss to ma turers.
shipowners, charter- and idbor, it
was said, would be tremendous.
Thousands of manufacturing con
cerns throughout the country which
have been supplying the warring na
tions abroad with foodstuffs, clothing,
munitions and other articles may be
forced to suspend work. The loss to
the farming communities in all parts
of the United States might bring
about unprecedented conditions.
Officials of the Mallory, Clyde and
Morgan coastwise eteamships lines
agreed that although their ships would
declare an embargo on freight destined
for interior points in the 'event of a
strike, there would be no interruption
of their coastwise service.
Officials of passenger lines trafficing
between this city and other coast ports
declared today they were prepared to
meet demands for additional service by
utilizing their reserve fleets.
Immediately after the tentative leg
islation had been made public, general
debate was begun in the senate on the
controversy. Senator Cummings open
ing the discussion. The Iowa senator
asserted that compulsory arbitration
was impracticable, and unconstitu
tional, that any attempt to-fix maxi
iii wages by law, although within
the power of congress, was doomed to
failure, and that legislation to prevent
strikes by force of law would mean a
practical prohibition of labor unions.
He suggested that a modified or par
tial restriction of the right to strike
in a combined way might make for in
dustrial peace.
In the course of the debate Sena
tor Simmons brought - the emergency
legislation to the forefront in '
speech urging immediate action to
prohibit the strike pending an investi
gation of the dfferances. He asked
Senator Hughes if such action would
not forestall the strike, - -
"It von ask mv opinnin " flprintnr
I Hughes replied, "i do not think con
gress has any authority to pass such
a law; we might just ait well pass
a law to compel men to work. The
senator is assuming a great deal if he
thinks such a law will stop a strike."
Serator Simmons retorted vehment
ly, declaring that congress should go
a step further and "confer upon the
courts drastic powers to prevent men
wno r.a-e gone on strike after such
proposed investigation and decision
from conspiring or acting in concert
to prevent other men from taking
their places."
Senator Hoke Smith, of Georgia.
declared that railroad workmen al
ways had been his friends but that
"for the first time In my life they
will lose mv sympathies if thev cam
out this strike: the men should post-
pone :ne stnue set for Monday; if
they do not. I don't believe two weeks
will iass before they are forced to
do it."
. Senator Thomas said if the gov
renment failed to protect the public
in such a crisis it had no right . to
call itself a government. Senator
Hardwick asserted that congress
rhould strengthen government con
trol of railroads or concede govern
ment ownership at once, and that it
sho'ild forthwith empower the inter
state commerce commission to fix
wages, hours of service and working
conditions. This, Senator Borah,
argued, -would constitute a step close
to government ownership and would
force railroad employes into politics
to lookout for their own welfare.
Senator Martine,- urged government
ownership as a solution of the prob
lem and Senator Reed advocated
federal receivership for railroads hav
ing government contracts, when the
roads failed to fulfill the contracts.
V. hue the senate was deliberating
what to do. house leaders wer be
coming restive over i .c prospects and
the danger or a great industrial civil
war. It was practically demanded
by theni unless some decisive action
is taken in the senate within 48
hours the house would undertake
initiative action.
Late in the day Majority Leader
Kitchin and Representative Adamson
conferred. They studied the tentative
proposals before the senate Interstate
commerce committee, and agreed be
twen themselves that the only meas
ures that could be put through the
house at this time would be the eight
hour day bill providing for a wage
commission.
Republicans in the house were non
commital on ihe program. Minority
Leadger Mann said the matter was
of vital importance, and that he was
patiently awaiting developments.
Some representatives who are es
pecially active in labor affairs, In-
(Continued on Page Two)
Coast Railroads Prepared ,
if the . Great Strike Comes
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug., 30.-offi-cials
of railroads centering in this
city, which would be affected by a
strike were ptepared tonight, they
announced, for the worst. The South
ern Pacific. Santa Fe, and Western
Pacific issued orders today which
will clear their tracks of livestock
and perishable freight in transit by
Sunday nisht and after that should
the strike come, will do the best
thev can.
The operators of electric railroads
in northern California, after a meet
ing here late today announced that
inasmuch as their roads were not
manned by members of the four
bro'herhoods whose demands are at
issue, they would be unaffected by
am- general railroad strike.
The maiority of the electric lines
j in southern California, it was declared.
would be unaffected. -
Southern Pacific officials, however,
declared that they would bo able to
oierate all passenger trains and part
of their freight service. The. Santa
Fe made a similar declaration.
O. M. Lever, president of the West
ern Pacific said his company would
do its best to keep things moving.
i
i
