Tron County Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
subscription:
One Year, f 1.50. Six Monthi, $0.75.
RATK8 OF ADYKETISINO
FuriCithed on Application. Special In
dueements to Borne Patron Clate Ifo5
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
W TT
Patriotic
aiW fa
You are especially invited
to come and see the
Sights, Attractions, Entertainments People
Many new things for you to SEE and
HEAR. An Event of Education and Pleas
ure Long to be Remembered. -
nt
in a Twirl of Terror, Cycling the Chasm, is
only one of the Marvelous Attractions. You
will go away saying, "How did he do it?"
HAPPY HOOLIGAN
AND- :
GLOOMY GUS
In their Comical FORD
The Fair is In the midst of
vmcea cuat an tne candidates
IPIEDHONT TRICOUNTY FAIR:
1 SEPTEMBER
PIEDMONT -
$1? tl? ?I??It jfe ffi ffi ffi ffi
Stitl Beating the Air.
Wtttlam Marion Ready, in the St.
Louis Mirror, says: .
- Candidate Hughes still continues to
beat the air aimlessly. His speeches
jhave added nothing to the futile fault
finding of bis speech of acceptance.
It is easy to stand by and find fanlt
with what a man is doing, without.
. giving him the key to doing better.
" This is Hughes. He merely grumbles
and kicks.
The Mexican policy of WilBon espe
cially excites his opposition, yet he
does not outline a policy which might
or might not have worked. It is dif
flcalt to deal with political chaos, ig
norance and lawlessness in a way to
please anybody. It would be interest
ing, although not convincing, to know
what Mr. Hughes would have done in
similar . circumstances. In finding
fault with Wilson, Mr. Hughes ap-
. parently misses the point that the
president of Mexico was virtually
dealing with a huge mob, to put which
down by force, would gain this coun
try nothing and lose much.
Is Mr. Hughes afraid to ventnre
even an alternative theory in opposi
tion to the Wilson practice?
A Wilson Convert.
'Permit me to congratulate The Re
publican upon its discussion in regard
' to President Wilson and the adminis
tration. Its course blazes the way of
Independence and honesty before that
of subserviency and partisanship,"
aid Edward Kemble, of Beverly,
Mass., in a letter to the editor of the
Springfield Republican."
"I write," continued Mr. Kemble,
"as a lifelong Republican until these
ery recent years a business man,
not a politician.
"If Mr. Hughes is elected he will
bave been elected by Theodore
Jtooaevelt, who will become', I pre
aume, secretary of state; but whether
tie may hold office or not, he will be
the governor 01 nugnes- administra
tion. This will be lamentable. Theo
dore Roosevelt has been a power for
good, but be has lost his grip."
Where Republicans Rule.
(St. Louis Post-Dispatch.)
Price McGlnniu of 812 South Tenth
street, a negro city employet struck
Julius Bongner,, a Democratic clerk,
as Bongner was leaving; the polling
place at 1107 Chouteau avenue to go
to lunch at 11:30 A. M. Tuesday, Aug
ust 1st. McGinnis ls;a watcher at the
polling place and earlier In the. day
quarreled with Bongner. -
He was arrested and Bongner was
sent to the city dispensary. A police
report said his jaw was.fraclured.
Auto Thief Sells Two Fords in Flat River.
(from the Lead Bolt News.)
Steve Halliday Is in jail in St. Louis
as the result of his trafflo in stolen
Automobiles and raising money on a
machine which was already mort
gaged. He sold two Fords In Flat
liiver. Both cars had been stolen In
iSt. Louis. George May gave him
' $250 for one and 0. W. Swofford sepa
rated himself from $265 for the other.
John Roberts, cashier of the St. Fran
cola County Bank at Farmington, was
tung to tWe tune of 365. Halliday
; mortgaged a Hudson car to him for
250 and cashed a worthless 860 check
at the bank. The Hudson car had not
teen stolen but had been purchased
by Halliday on the time payment plan,
lie owed 8400 on it at the time he
gave Mr. Roberts the mortgage. We
understand Mr. Roberts has secured
possession of the Hudson car by as
suming responsibility for the 100
mortgage.
The money paid out by. May and
fiwofford is a total loss, Halliday hav
ffell
P ,.aSoc'f-oil8her.
VOLUME L.
U
U
3?
the campaign. We are con
win oe Here.
5, 6, 7, 8, 1916
MISSOURI
ffiif? ffiffiffi ffiffi
ing made away with it before his
arrest.
The stolen machines were located
Saturday by Detective Lamholt, of
St. Jjouis, and Deputy Sheriff Sam
Doss. They took possession of both
machines and drove them to St. Louis
Sunday morning and turned them over
to their owners.
Halliday had worked In the mines
in the Lead Belt on several different
occasions and Was well known in Flat
River.' He worked here -about two
months this summer. . ...
Everybody Loves a Good Loser.
(Prom the Centralia Courier.)
Licked to a frazzle that's us. John
L. Sullivan knocked us through the
ropes the first round. We took the
count Saturday. We were out-gener-aled,
out-winded, out-fought and out
classed. The Sedalian went through
us like a dose of salts. Never having
tried our speed before, we thought
perhaps we could run a bit. We were
mistaken. Any old spavined plug
could run rings around us. We did
our little darndest, but the "dry hob
bles" tripped us up. John L.Sullivan
had wings on his feet. He also had a
loyal lot of rooters whooping it up for
him. . Most of the state candidates
were cheering him on. And take it
from us,'"he was going some." Not
that it took any wonderful burst of
speed to distance us but to run way
with that fine lot of newspaper boys
backing us well, that was some class,
John L., and here's tipping our hat to
you. W.e want every friend of ours
to shuck his coat for John L. We
couldn't defeat him, so let's join him.
We are for him from the tap of the
bell until he comes under the wire a
winner in November. Fall in line,
boys, for the ticket from president to
constable, .
Only One.
The Record in Ironton is a Unique One.
If the reader has a "bad, back" or
any kidney ills and is looking for an
effective kidney medicine, better de
pend on the remedy endorsed by peo
ple you know. Doan's Kidney Fills
have given great satisfaction in such
cases. Ironton citizens testify to this.
Here is a case of it:
J. R. Harris, Knob St., Ironton,
says: "My kidneys caused me lot of
suffering. I had backache and rheu
matic) pains in my limbs and joints.
At times I could hardly stoop and it
was just as difficult to straighten. My
kidneys acted too freely and the se
cretions were scanty and painful in
passage. Finally I used Doan's Kid
ney Pills, whtoh I got from Arcadia
Vallev Drue Co.. and thev not only
strengthened my back, but regulated
the action oi my moneys, uoan's
Kidney Pills are the best kidney medi
cine I ever used and the only one that
ever gave me relief."
Price 60c, at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Harris had. Foster-Milburn Co.,
Props. Buffalo, N.Y.-Adv.
Order of Publication.
In-the circuit court"of Iron county,
Missouri, October term, 1010.
Sarah A. Lovell, L. O. Lovell, Will O.
Lovell and Lovina L. Reid, (nee
Lovell), Plaintiffs,
vs.
Frederlo B. Homes, Frederio B.
Holmes, -Fred B. Homes. V. B.
Homes, Qiles Lee, EOle O. Spbleski,
R. A. Clarkson, Samuel A. Lee, Luoi
ui (Kingsbury, Lucius Kingsburg,
James Whetstone, George Lewis, N.
OrKflth, Catherine GrilUtb, Robert
Lewis, James Lewis, James Keen,
James W. Ulark, F. M. Boas, Wil
liam .Boas, Trustee, Elizabeth T.
Clark. A. J. Norwlne, William O.
' Randel, William O. RnndelJ, John
Carrier, John Carver. Kate Lyons,
Wilson Corbett, Wilson Corbet,
IFHk A ff
r C IF!
a
I
llll
OUR
IRONTON, MO..
James Snow, Bamoel Tullock.Fied
erick Syler, Frederick Tyler, John
F. T. Edwards, M. J. Edwards, Ma
ria J. Edwards, William O. Edwards,
Daniel K. Gise, William H. Casteel,
Hugh G. Bray, J. W. Emerson,
James Marsh, and the unknown
heirs, consorts, devisees, donees,
alienees, and immediate, mesne, re
mote, voluntary and involuntary
grantees of Frederic 11. Homes,
Frederic B. Holmes, Fred B.
Homes, F. B. Homes, Giles Lee, Ef
tie C. Sobieski, R. A. Clarkson, Sam.
uel A. Lee,Lucius Kingsbnry, Lucius
Kingsburg, James Whetstone,
George Lewis, N. Griffith, Catherine
Griffith, Robert Lewis, James Lewis,
James Keen, James W.Clark, F. M.
BoaB, William Boas, Trustee, Eliza
beth T. Clark, A. J. Norwine, Wil
liam C. Randel, William C. Randel,
John Carrier, Jonn Carver, Kate
Lyons, Wilson Corbet, wusonuor
bett, James Snow, Samuel Tullock,
Frederick Syler, Frederick Tyler,
John F. T. Edwards, M. J. Edwards,
Maria J. Edwards, William O. Ed
wards, Daniel K. Gise, William H.
Casteel, Hugh G. Bray, J. W. Emer
son and James Marsh, Defendants.
(Action to Try Title.)
The State of Missouri to all of the
above named Defendants Greeting:
You are herebv notified that the
above named plaintiffs have this day
filed witb the undersigned, uieru. oi
the Circuit Court of Iron County Mis
souri, in vacation, their petition, duly
verified by the affidavit of John H.
Keith, their agent and attorney of rec
ord, wherein plaintiffs allege that the
defendants claim some title, estate or
interest in the subject matter of said
petition, and in the land hereinafter
described, but that said plaintiffs can
not insert the names of tne un Known
parties defendants in their said peti
tion because they are unknown to
them; in which said petition said
plaintffs further aver that the un
known defendants have obtained and
derived their claim to the real estate
hereinafter described from Frederic
B. Homes, Frederic B. Holmes, Fred
B. Homes, F. B. Homes, Giles Lee,
Effle 0. Sobie8ki,R. A. Clarkson, Sam
uel A. Lee, Lucius KingsDury, luciub
Kingsburg, James Whetstone, George
Lewis, N. Griffith, Catherine Griffith,
Robert Lewis, James Lewis, James
Keen, James W. Clark, F. M. Boas,
William Boas, Trustee, Elizabeth T.
Clark, A. J. Norwine, William C. Ran
dell, William C. Randel, John Carrier,
John Carver, Kate Lyons, Wilson
Corbet, Wilson Corbett, James Snow,
Samuel Tullock, Frederick Syler,
Frederick Tyler, John F. T. Edwards,
M. J. Edwards, Maria J. Edwards,
William 0. Edwards, Daniel K. Gise,
William H. Casteel, Hugh G. Bray,
J. W. Emerson, James Marsh asheirs,
consorts, devisees, donees, alienees
and immediate, mesne, remote,, vol
untary and involuntary grantees of
the above named defendants, and that
said petition contains as full, correct
and complete recital and descrip
tion of the claims of said defendants
and how said claims are derived as the
same are kowu to plaintiffs.
It is thereupon ordered by the un
dersigned, Clerk aforesaid, In vaca
tion, that the said defendants be no
tified that an action has been com
menced aeainst them in the Circuit
Court of Iron County,Missouri, for the
purpose of trying, determining, set
tling, defining and quieting the title to
tne following real estate in iron
County, Missouri, to wit:
The south one half of section- 29,
township 31, range 4 east: the south
west quarter of the southeast quarter;
and the southeast Quarter of the south
west quarter of section 38, township
33, range i east; the southeast quarter
of the soutnwest quarter or section s,
and the southeast quarter of the
southwest Quarter of section 24, town
ship 32, range 4 east; the northwest
quarter or tne narrowest quarter, ana
south half of the riorthweBt quarter of
section 17, townsnip aa, range 4 east;
the west half of section 34, township
31, range 8 east; the northwest quar
ter of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 34, township 34, range 1 west; the
southeast quarter of the southwest
quarter of section 34, township 32,
range 3 east; the west half of the
southwest quarter of section 10, town
ship 34, range 2 west; the southwest
quarter of section 5, township 34,
range 1 west, and the southwest quar
ter of section 33, township 32, range
4 east:
And by which said action plaintiffs
seek to forever bar and preclude the
said defendants, and each of them,
from setting up any interest or claim
in or to said real estate adversely to
the said plaintiffs, and wtnen saia ac
tion is returnable and triable on the
first day of the next regular term of
this Court, to be holden at the court
house in the City of Ironton, Iron
County, Missouri, on the 23d day of
Ootober, 1916, at which time and place
said defendants are required and com
manded to be and appear, and to
plead, answer or demur to plaintiffs'
said petition,otherwise the allegations
contained in said petition win ue ian
en and considered as confessed and
judgment rendered according to the
prajer thereof, forever barring and
precluding said defendants from here
after setting up any claim or title to
said real estate.
The Iron County Register, pub
lished in Ironton, Iron County, Mis
souri, having been designated by the
plaintiffs and their attorney of reoord
as the newspaper most likely to give
notice to tne defendants 01 tne pen
dency of this action, it is further or
dered that a copy of this order be pub
lished In Bald Iron County Register.
once a week for and during four
weeks successively, the last insertion
of said order In said newspaper to be
at least thirty days before the first day
of the next regular term of this court.
JESSK M. HAWKINS,
Clerk, of the Circuit Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI, I
COUNT V OF IRON. f
I, Jesse M. Hawkins, Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the County of Iron
and State of Missouri, hereby certify
that the foregoing Ii a true copy of
the original order of publication as
the same appears of record in my of
fice. Witness my hand and 'official
seal, this, the 20th day of August,
, IBKAfc 1B1B.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Clerk of the Circuit Court.
Order of Publication.
Id tlie circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 27, I9I6.
The stale ol Missouri, at the elation and to
QOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1916.
the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
gainst
John E. Love, James E. Reese and D. B.
Beedle, and Francis M. McKee, if liv
ing; or the unknown consort, heirs and
devisees of Francis M. McKee, if he be
- dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes )
Now at this day comes the 'plaintiff, B.
P. Burnham, collector of the revenue of
Iron county, Missouri, and files his petition
and affidavit, setting forth among other
things, that the defendant,
Francis M. McKee,
is a'non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that he cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Francis M. McKee, .
has not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether be
be living or dead; that if he be dead,
his heirs, or if he died leaving a will,
his devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition: that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff; that the said
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B.
lieedle and Francis HI. McKee,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate m said land owned by
said
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B.
Beedle and Francis M. McKee,
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Francis M. McKee,
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Francis M. Mckee,
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has beep commenced
against them in the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes or the years 1912, 1913, and l9i4,
to wit: ,
The west one-half of the northeas
quarter and the west one-half of the south
east quatter of section 21, township 31,
north, of range 3 east, 160 acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of
a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting in
the aggregate to the sum of twenty-three
and 55-100 dollars, is filed with said
petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term ot said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, l9i6,andon or be
fore the third day thereof (if the term shall
so long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and pleady answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petitton, the same
will be taken s.. confessed, judgment
rendered in accordance with the prayer of
said petition, and said real estate, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special hen facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof
be published according to law in the lron
county Register, a weekly newspaper pub
lished in said county of Iron and state of
Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Cierk.
A true copy from the record;
" seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th day Qf June,
1916. '
JESSBM. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Urder of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation, June 29, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
' against
W. H. Shelby, if livincr; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
W. H. Shelby, if he be dead, defend
ants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P.' Burnham. collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant,
w. h. sneioy,
is a non-resident of tho state of Mis.
souri, and that he cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
W. H. Shelby,
has not been heard of for many years :
that plaintiff is not informed whether
he be living ordead; that if he be
dead, his heirs, or tf he died leaving
a will, his devisees, are interested in
the subioct matter of this petition : that
the names of sueh heirs or devisees, or
both, cannot be inserted herein because
they are unknown to plaintiff; that the
said
W. H. Shelby,
was the record owner of tho land
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information except as herein stated of
the nature of tho interest and estate in
said land owned by said
W. H. Shelby,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describe the the same, and that in the
event of the death of the said
W. H. Sholby.
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
intorest and estate of the said
W. H. Shelby,
from whom their interest in the prop
erty herein described is derived. It is
therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court 01 iron county, Missouri,
In vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendant that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of which Is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the year 1914, to wit:
Lots 1 and 2 of the southwest quar
ter of section 30. township 34, north, of
range cast, wi.oz acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now dun on
said real estate for tho yoar aforesaid,
amounting in the nggrcgnUi to the sum
of five and b7-i00 dollars, Is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
I the county of Iron, and state of Mis
MM
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in October next,
19i6, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the term shall so long con.
tinue; and, if not, then before the end
of the term), and plead, nswer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that acopy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy trom the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 2'Jth day of June,
i916.
.JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 27, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
William II. Wolff and Wilhelm Behren, if
living; or the unknown consort, heir and
devisees of Wilhelm Behren, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P.
Burnham, collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri, and files his petition and
affidavit, setting forth among other things,
that the defendant,
Wilhelm Bebren,
is a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that be cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
has not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether he be
living or dead ; that if he be dead, his
heirs, or if he died leaving a will, their
devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition; that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to pjaintiff ; that the said
Wilhelm Behren and William H. Wolff,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in said land owned by
said
Wilhelm Behren and William H. Wolff,
and therefore is unable to particularly, de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Wilhelm Behren,
his said heirs and devisees have, by de
scent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Wilhem Behren,
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron icounty, Missouri, in vacation, that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit coi.fr t,. said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the years 19I3 and 1914, to wit:
Lots-one, two, seven and eight in block
32 in the town of Pilot Knob, Missouri, as
the same appear on the plat of said town
of Pilot Knob, Mo., on ffle in the office of
the Rpcorder of Deeds for Iron county,
Mo., said real estate being in Iron county,
Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of a
tax bill showing the amount of taxes, inter
est and costs now due cn said real estate for
the years aforesaid, amounting in the
aggregate to the sum of fourteen and 15-100
dollars, is hied with said petition as pro
vided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, I916, and on or
before the third day thereof (if the term
shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real estate,
or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be
published according to law in the Iron
County Register, a weekly newspaper
published in said county of Iron, and state
of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record :
seal Witness my band and official
seal, this 27th day .of June,
1916,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court. Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county ..Mis
souri, in vacation, June 2t), i9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri,
atrainst
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
ham Frank Taylor if he be dead,
aeienoants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day conies the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and filos his
petition and affidavit, Betting forth
amonsr other thinirs, that the defendants,
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the
unknown consort, heirs and devisees of
Bam t ranic Taylor, vt he be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
witn summons in said state; it is there
fore, ordered by tho clerk of the cir.
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in
the circuit court of said county, the
object and general naturo of which is
to enforce the lien of tho state ot Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to tho said defendants for back
taxes for tho years 1911, it)l2, 19i3and
1914, to wit:
Lot 18 In block 4 of J. H. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Heights" as per
plat theroof on file in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds for Iron County,
Mo., subject t mineral reservation
mado by Big Muddy Coal 4 Hon Com
pany in Book 62, page 118, Iron county
I.nnd Records said real estate being
(An lteuiiied statement in the nature
TERMS-l.50 a-Year ia Advance.
NUMBER 13.
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of twenty and 70-i(X)dollars, 16 filed with
said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at
the next term of said court to be holden
for the county of I'on. find state of
Missouri, at the court nouse in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1916, and on or before the
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then bofore
the end of the termX and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the same will be taken as confessed,
judgment rendered in accordance with
the prayer of said petition, and said
real estate, or so much thereof as may
oe necessary to satisly said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
it is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law
in the iron uounty Kegister, a weemy
newspaper published in said county of
Iron, and state of Missouri.
JESSE M . HAWKINS, Clerk.
A true copy from the recoord :
seal Witness my hand and of
ficial seal, this 29th day of
June 19i6.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation, June 26, i9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
ana to the use 01 B. f, Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
aeainst
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
ana William Campbell, 11 living; or
the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees of J. R. Edmonds, Margaret
Campbell and William Campbell, if
they be dead; and C. E. Bolch and
Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missouri, Trustee, defendants.
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret' Campbell and
William Campbell,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendants,
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell,
have not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they bo living or dead; that 11 , they
bo dead, their heirs, or if they died
leavinsr a will, their devisees, are in
terested in the subject matter of this
petition; that the names of such heirs
or devisees, or both, cannot be inserted
herein because the are unknown to
plaintm; that the said
J, R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell and C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron county,
Missouri, Trustee,
w,e tlv -jnord owners of the lard
desfcribi J lresreirt . but nlaint'ff lias o
information except as herein stated of
the nature ot the interest and estate in
said land owned by said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
ana William Campbell, C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missonri, Trustee,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describe the same, and that in the
event or the death ot the said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
ana William uampoell,
their said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
ana w 1111am uampoen,
from whom their interest in the pro
perty herein described is derived. It
is therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notuying said delenuants that an
action has been commenced against
them in the circuit court of said county,
the object and treneral nature of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate.
belonging to tho said defendants for
pack taxes tor the year I9H, to wit:
The south one-half of the north one
half of the northwest quarter and the
south one-half of the north one-half of
tha northeast quarter of section 28,
township 3i, north, of range 4 east, 80
acres said real estate being in iron
county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 3.1-10U dollars, is
filed with said petition aa provided by
law.)
And unless they bo and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in UctO'
ber next, 1910, and on or before the
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, 11 not, then before
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
'same wilj be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or it) much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
ana state ot Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk
A true copy from the record.
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 20th day of June,
191.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo
Order of Publication.
Id th Clfcult Conrt of Iron County, Minsonri, In
Th 8tntof Minionrl. at the relation fend to th
uae of B.'P. Burnham, collector of the rovtttut
of Irou eouutr, Bliiftonrt,
ftirftiniit
Alexander H. Htiirna atid David Gorman, If
llvingt or tha unknown consort!, nelra and
dovinciaaof Alexander H. tliiRatren and David
Norman, ff tbey dead, deitwdanU.
(Action to Knforee Lien fur Tafea.I
Now at. thla dar noma tha plaintiff, 11. P. Pnrn
ham, oollectur ot the revenue of Ircn orninty. Mi"
ennfi, anrl nlee hie petition and anidavlt, anttin
tnrlir anionic other thmi;, tuat tho rt',renuautM
Alexander H. Huenffon and David Gorman.
are non-reetdeuta of Ihe atatanf Mieenurl, and that
tliev eamiot lie nerved with attmmona in laid stale.
I'laihtilf atatoe that the del "fulanta,
Alexander II. liueeen and David (lorman.
have not been heard ot for many rearai that
plaintiff la Dot informed whether they be living or
dead ; that U tbay be dead, Uioir beira, or it they
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print'
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
TRY US.
died leavinr a will, their deviaeea, are interested
in the aubjeet matter of this petition; that the
names ot such Leirs or devisees, or both, eannot
be inserted herein beeauae they are unknown to
plahititf: that the said
Alexander H. Hoeegen and David Gorman,
were tile record owuera of the land described
herein, but plaintiff has no information except as
herein stated of the nature of the interest and
estate In said land owned by said
Alexander U. Hueseen and David Gorman,
nd therefore is unable to narticularlv deseribe
the same, and that in the event of the death of
theaaid
Alexander H. HoesRen and David Gorman,
their said heirs and devisees have by descent or
devise, succeeded to the aaid interest and estate
of the said
Alexander H, Haeggen and David Gorman,
from whom their interest in the property herein
described is derived. It is therefore ordered by
the clerk of the circuit court, of Iron county, Mis
sonri, in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action baa been
commenced agaiust them in the circuit court of
said connty, the object and general nature of
wbich l to enforce the hen of the state of Mis
souri, on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants for back taxes for the year
1 he west one-half of the southwest quarter of
section t), township 30, north, of range 3 east, HO
acraa-saia real estate being lu Iron county, Mis
souri.
(An itemized statement in the nature ot a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest and
costs now due on said real estate for the year
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
ot three ana Ai- juu dollars, is tiled with aatd pe
titiou as provided by law. )
And unless thev be and BDDear at the next term
of said court to be holden for the county of Iron,
ana .-Mate or Aiissouri, at the court bouse in saia
county on the fourth Monday in October next,
llllti, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the term shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and nlead. answer, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will be
taken as contesseu, judgment rendered m accord
ance with the praver of said netiton and Baid real
estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
sausiy sam juagmeni, interest ana costs, be sola
under a special heri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be pub
lished according to law in the IRON COUNTY REG
ISTER, a weekly newstinper nublished in said
county of Iron, and State of Missouri.
draast, at. haw B.UMS, circuit Ulerk.
A true copy from the record ;
Witness my band and official seal this 2tith dat
of June, 1916.
(seal) JKSSBM. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, &lo.
Order of Publication.
Edith Westerman, Plaintiff,
against
Effie Moser, Nettie Peaslee and My
ron u. KancenauBen, defendants.
The State of Missouri, to the above
named ueienaancs ureeting;
You are hereby notified that an
action has been commenced against
you in the Circuit Court of the County
of Iron, in the State of Missouri, for
the purpose of securing a decree of
partition and order of sale for the
following described lands, to-wit;
Lots three (3,) four (4,) five (5), six
(6.) twelve (12.) thirteen (13), four
teen (14,) fifteen (15,) and Bixteen
(Its,) in block sixteen (16,) and lotsix
(6) and seven (7) in block fourteen
(14;) all in the town of Pilot Knob,
Mo., as the same appear on the plat
of said town of Pilot Knob, ftlo., on
file in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds for Iron County, Missouri,which
said action is returnable on the first
day of the next term of said Court, to
be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron and
State of Missouri, on the fourth Mon
day in October next, 1916, when and
when you may appear and defend
such f.ctiin: otherwise, plaintiff's pe
tition will bef" taken as eonfeesed,jand
judgment rendered accordingly.
It is ordered that a copy hereof be
duly published at least once a week
for 4 consecutive weeks in the Iron
County: Kegister, a weekly news
paper duly printed, published and
circulated in said Iron County, and
duly designated by plaintiff's attor
ney, and duly approved by said Clerk
as most likely to give notice to de
fendant, the last insertion to be at
least fifteen clays before said next
term of said Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI,!
COUNTY OP IRON. J S
I, J. M. Hawkins, Clerk of the Cir
cuit Court of Iron County, Missouri,
hereby certify that the foregoing writ
ing if a full, true and complete copy of
notice of suit and the original Order of
Publication in said cause, as fully as
tbe same remains and appears of rec
ord in my office.
In Witness Whereof, I hereto sub
scribe my name and official signature
and hereto affix the seal ot said Court
at my office in the City of Ironton,
Iron County, Missouri, this 20th dav
seal of July, 1916.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court oi Iron County, Missouri
in vacation, AuRuat 10, 191ii.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
the use of B. P. Burnham, collector ol tha
revenue ol Iron couuty, Missouri,
against
James W. Hanna and William S. Worley, if
living, or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees ol James W. Hanna and William
S. Worley, il they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Eniorce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plalnttfl, B. P,
Burnham, collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri, and Hies his petition and
affidavit, setting forth among oilier tilings,
that the defendants,
James W. Hanna and William 8. Worley, If
living, or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees ot .lames W. Hanna and William S.
Worley, if they be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Missouri,
and thnt they cannot be served with sum
mons In said state. It Is, therefore, order
ed by the clerk ol the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, In vacation, that
publication be made notifying said de
fendants that an action has been com
menced against them in the circuit court of
said co limy, the object and general nature
ol which ih to enforce the lien ot the state
of Missouri on the following real estate,
belonging to the said defendants tor back
taxes lor the years 11112, 1913 and 1!M4, to wit;
The north half of lot 2 ot the southwest
quarter of section 1H, township 31, north, of .
rango 4 east said real estate being In Iron
couuty, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of a tax
bill showing the amount of tnxea, interest and
costs now duo on said real estate for the yeata
aforesaid, amonntlng in the aggregate to the sura
of eight and till 101) dollars, ia filed with said
petition as provided by law,!
And unleNs they be and appear at the next term
of said conrt to be hoiden for tbe county of Iron,
and state of Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in October next,
lllltl, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the tortu shall so longoontimie; and, if not, then
before tbe end of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, tbe same will be
taken as oonfesasd, judgment reudered In ao.
oordance with the prayer ot said petition, and
said real estate, or ao much thereof as may be
necessary to aatisfy said judgment, interest and
costs, be sold under a special tlert faciaa to be
issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a eopy hereof be
published acoording to law In the Iron County
Kegister a weekly newspaper pnbllahed lo said
couuty of Iron, and state of Missonri,
JK.4SK M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.,
A true copy from the record;
SEAL V itnesa my hand and official seal, this
lOlh dav of August, mm.
JrlSHE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court Iron aounty, Mo.
WM. . IDOAR.
WM. K IOGAI, J
edgar & edgar
Attorneys at Law,
' IRONTON. TWO.
Practice ia til the Courts of tht State.
