"IARKETS
WEATHER
ARIZONA: Wednesday,
fair in tcuth.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Aug. 23, 26.354 -
Associated Press Special Leas ed Wire Service.
VOL.19. NO. 82.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, AUGUST 31, 1916.
PRICE HVE CENTS
OflCTD
CALLING OF
'"'ill iCjJa4Mjx
lu rncri
(
UU
mmt mtwtt
ODDS
I
Rumanian Troops Force Their
Way Into Hungary; Kronstadt
Is the Immediate Objective
Mountainous Region of East
ern Hungary Sees First En-.
gaments rSetween forces or
Ferdinand and Franz Joseph
AUSTRIANS OWN TO
BEING DRIVEN BACK
Fighting of a Severe Nature
Continues on the Saloniki
Front Artillery Duels on
the Western Front
(By Review Leased Wire.)
Rumania's invasion of Austria
Hungarian territory continues in
the mountainous region from Pre
trozsiny, on the railway north
east of Orsovo to the Gyrogo
Mountains, 80 miles north of
Kronstadt On the Danube, from
the Iron Gate to Giurgevo, Rus
tichuk, Bulgaria, there have been
recipocral bombardments at sev
eral points by Austro-Hungarian
ware raft and Rumanian shore
batteries.. A Zeppelin and a hos
tile aeroplane have dropped bombs
on the Rumanian capital.
Austria's acknowledgement of
the retirement of her forces in
the mountainous region to previ
ously prepared positions in the
rear has been followed by claims
by Rumania that the troops of
King Ferdinand have arrived at
a point within three miles of Kron
stadt, the chief commercial city
of Transylvania. Vienna admits
that the Rumanians are engaged
with the Austrians in the Gyergio
Mountains which shows that off
the northwestern frontier of Ru
mania hostile forces have invaded
Transylvania sectors.
While Bulgaria has not com
menced hostilities against Ru
mania, a news agency dispatch
says Rumania has decided to send
an ultimatum to Bulgaria demand
ing the evacuation of Serbia. A
dispatch from Constantinople in
dicates that Turkey has declared
war on Rumania.
In the Macedonian theatre vio
lent fighting continues between
the entente allies and the Austro
Germans and Bulgarians. On the
Struma front, near Lake Doirian,
batteries of the entente have vio
lently shelled Bulgarian positions.
Drama, in the northeast of Greece,
has been seized by the Bulgarians
after a fight with Greek troops,
according to unofficial advices. An
Albanian detachment, under E
sad Pasha, has arrived at Saloniki
to aid the entente forces. An un
official dispatch from Athens
says the remobilization of the
Greek army is under considera
tion. Except for an extension of the
British lines south of Martinpuich
on the Somme there has teen lit
tle activity except by artillery on
the part of any of the belligerents
on the western battle lire. In the
Carpathian region the Russians
have captured Panker Mountain
and Rafaelov, near the Hungarian
Border.
FROM BUCHAREST.
BUCHAREST. Aug. 29. (Via Lon
don. Aug. 30.) Rumanian troops have
made progress in th. ir crossing of
the Austro-Hungarian fi'jntier and
have readied several points, including
a village east of Kronstradt, says an
official statement given out by the
Rumanian war office today. More
than 740 prisoners already have been
taken.
BAR ASSOCIATION MEETS.
CHICAGO. Aug. 30 Nearly a thou
sand members of the American Bar
Association, among them William H.
Taft, were present at the opening of
(he annual session of tne organiza
tion today. Elihu Root, president, ad
dressed the members on "public ser
vice" urging all Americans to increase
and conserve Uie'r powers in their
several fields of action against the
time of world wide competition which '
must follow the war.
Speaking of the defective adminis
tration of the law. Mr. Root ascribed
as the underlying causp the false as
sumption of the people and the bar as
to their true relations to judicial pro
ceedings. Other speakers were John W. Davis.
solicitor general of the United States; j
William H. Taft, former president, 1
and Mahlon Pitney, associate justice
pf the Unhed States Supreme Court.
SHERIFF BADLY
WOUNDED
Infuriated People Nearly Kill
Officer When He Refuses1
to Give up Negro Accused
of Assault on Woman.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LIMA, O., Aug. 30. Enraged at the
success of Sheriff Sherman Eley in
spiriting Charles Daniels, a negro ac
cused of assaulting Mrs. John Barber
young wife of a prominent farmer,
out of their reach early this evening.
a mob tonight captured the sheriff,
seriously wounding him, placed a
noose around his neck and forced
him to direct a cortege of one hun
dred automobiles into the rough coun
try north of this city, where it is sup
posed the negro prisoner has been,
hidden. The motor mob with Sheriff
Eley was not located at a late hour,
after desperate fighting where they
had overpowered the Lima police and
fire department, broke into the jail
and the court bouse and the residence
of the sheriff and forced the sheriff's
wife and other women to flee from
their anger with a small baby in arms.
The mob formed around the jail
i,c. ji, j , v, i, j ,.. ,. ,, j , r urresi oiauon, :aco, iiereioru, w nu n i
admittance Chi ! T!"' bv a forced nit march. I Hamilton names the national and
ne v c of hf , n-; Jack's place. Fort Huachu,a.Fairbank.! local official, of tU- Order of Piil
ney called out his entire force but the Tombsone K.jl!an(j St.hoo, at th way Conductors as defendants,
officers were overpowered in a hand . . n...lKo. ., J in hi neti.inn n.n.ii, art, ...o
to hand fight. The mob was heavily
armed. It was announced that the
negro had been taken by Sherifl Eley
to the state hospital for the criminal
insane and that the jail was guarded ' attack of appendicitis and the other
ty but one deputy and the sheriffs suffered an injury to his foot Out
wife. Refusing to accept the an-1 side of these two cases no other trou
nouncement the mob forced Mr. Eley ble was encountered on the entire
to open the cells.
Sheriff Eley returned at 9:40
clock and was met ty the mob at the
city limits. They demanded that he!kel""- v e nave nau dui two cases
deliver the prisoner or tell where he
was hidden. The Rheriff reached his
residence and refused to give up the
nriunnpr Tha nmh thou hrrtl-a in f It i t
. r-i i I
,.sui j tnapu uui hit- irai.
He was later captured at the Elks
Club, his clothes were stripped from
his body and he was battered and
kicked by the mob. Some of his ribs
were broken. A rope was taken from
the -trolley of a street car and the
nooise placed about his neck. Eley
held out even after the mob had
thrown the noose over the cross arm
of a telephone pole.
"Kill the 'nigger's protector," yelled
the crowd as the mob swayed
over '
the sheriff, knocking him to the pave- ,ours and company, powder manuf.ic
(Continued on Page Three.) turers.
CHBTAS PREPARING FOR
AMERICAN EVACUATION OE MEXICO
(By Review Leased Wire.)
FIELD HEADQUARTERS AMERI. thousand Mexican troops have arrived
CAN PUNITIVE- EXPEDITION. Mex.. in Juraz recently from the south and
Aug. 30. Three hundred Carranza are being detailed to border patrol
troops have appeared as garrisons at, duty. In anticipation of the expected
Casas Grandes. Pearson and other; withdrawal of the American expedi
small towns near the headquarters of, tionary column it is said at the
the American punitive expedition.
It was learned today that attempts
are being made by the de facto gov
ernment to reorganize the Rurales,
the military police with which Por
firio Diaz controlled the section.
The attitude of the Carranza troops
toward the American command has
been friendly and no Mexican force
has garrisoned Colonia Dublan, the
Mormon village, midway between the
headquarters camps and Casas Gran
des. The arrival of the troops under
the command of Colonel RIcardo Cor
tinas, originally of Durango City, fol
lowed a recent trip of inspection of
General Gabriel Gavira, inspector gen
eral of the Carranza forces. Announ
cement was made by the Mexican au
thorities that the soldiers will be sup-
ported by a newly formed command
of rurales in the Galena district.
CARRANCISTAS TO BORDER.
EL PASO, Aug. 30. More than
WILLIAMS RELEASED
ON SUSPENDED SENTENCE
TOMBSTONE. Alls. 30 (Spe-
rial) John Williams, who has
been einiiluvi'd as nortcr liv (Ins
ilde for some months, was con-
ted in th" superior court this
afternoon of selliiiL' liot.'.ir. The
jury in the case was about six
teen minutes and brought in re
commendations of leniency to the
court with its verdict.
As a consequence the court, in
pronouncing sentence, inferred
that Williams had been used in
the sale Vif intoxicants and save
the negro a suspended sentence
of two years in jail. Williams
left this afternoon for Hisbee
with the firm determination to
keep away from any further sale
of liquor in the future.
;
REGULARS S10P
III
First Batallion of Eighteenth
Infantry, Through Bisbee
From Ten Day Hike in the
Country Under Maj. Cobbe
I'nder the command of F. W. Cobbe,
the First Battalion of the Eighteenth
Infantry, stationed at Douglas, arrived
in the District yesterday afternoon
and camped in the town of Warren.
This morning the unit will proceed
to Forest Station, and from there will
go back t'j camp in Douglas.
The battalion has been on a ten-day
hike, leaving Douglas August 21. The
line of march, from the start, included
Forrest Station, Naco, Hereford, which j
to Warren. j
So far only two men out of 557 ;
tion in the battalion have dropped I
Out. One was taken down with an
march.
I "The condition 'of the men Is excel-,
jlen declared Major Cobbe last i
or bourne on the march. II hiKlug,
can be made good sport I think the
battalion has made the most of it. We !
j
SHU
then
back to Douglas where we are
; camped."
i While in Bisbee Major Cobbe saw
' several old friends in the Tweriv-
second Infantry, notably Col. Frank 1).
I Webster and Captain Robert Whittielu,
with whom the Major served iVr a
year in Alaska several years ago.
NEW YORK, Aug. 30. Regular
quarterly dividend of per cert on J
the common stock and an extra divi
dend of 23'i per cent were declare!
here today by E. I. Dupont de Nem-
comandanicia at Juraz. others have
been sent to garrison the towns along
General Pershing's line of communi
cation. Colonel Cortina's command
was withdrawn recently from Tatnau
lipas. VILLISTAS BURN WIDOW.
CHICHUHUA CITY. Aug. 30. Re
ports received by military authorities
here tonight said that when the Villa
bandits captured t.'ie town of Satevo.
fifty miles south of here last Friday,
they burned a widow named Ruts
alive and shot her son Agustin Ruis.
It was charged, according to the re
ports that the two had given infor
mation to officers of the American ex
peditionary column when it pursued
Villa through that town several
months am.
While rumors were current here to
day that Villa himself was in com
mand of the outlaws w'len they cap
continued on Page Four.)
WARREN OH
PRACTICE
IJlCIIlW
! IS GRANTED !
! AGAINST i
SHE
i
' Nebraska and Kansas Courts
Grant Petitions of Train-J
men and Engineers Against
Brotherhoods on the U. P. '
,
CONSTITUTION OF
ORDER IS VIOLATED
Kansas Engineer Alleges That
He Will Lose Chance for a
Fension, on One Hand, or
Insurance if They Strike.
(By Review Leased Wire)
OMAHA, Aug. 30. A temporary in-
junction restraining the general and
j local officials of the order of railway
conductors from calling or enfoiciug
a strike on the lines of the Union l'a
cific Railroad was issued by Judge
Willis G. Sears of the district court
of Douglas County here today. Sat
urday, September 10, was set for a
hearing whether the injunction thall
be made permanent. Application lor
the injunction was made by Edwin E.
Hamilton, a member of the Order of
Railroad Conductors. The suit tiled
strike order is a violation of the con-
stitution of the conductors' organiza
tion. which provides for a two-thirds
vote on any road where a strike is to
be called. A change in this provision
last May, so that a two-thirds vote of
all concerned in a general wage move-
J ment governs all employes of rail
I roads, violates the constitution of the
ornr Hamilton asserts.
The temporary injunction restrains
Jeclaring or calling or carrying on a
strike" and from "issuing, circulaf ing
or promulgating said strike order,
r - .
uoiii e.o?iiuiiig any iunus oi tne or
der or any ether money in the conduct
of said strike and from doing any
thing or taking any action whatever
even the furtherance of the strike."
ANOfHER INJUNCTION
KANSAS CITY. Aug. 30. A tem
porary injunction restraining the lo
cal and national officers of (he Order
of Railway Conductors from calling
nilt nietllhora nf lha nrlap nn cta-ilrn I
...
was issued by Judge T. J. Seehorn in
the district court here late today. The
injunction was made returnable Satur
day and was made out to the name of
Charles A. Brown, 66 years old, of
Bonner Springs. Kansas, a conductor
on the Union Pacific Railway for 31
years.
Brown in the petition, alleges that
should lie go on strike he would lose
his opportunity to retire on a pen
sion of $S0 a month in four years,
while if he does not go in the impend
ing movement he will forego his in
surance in the order which he has
kept for many years.
. The petition also alleges that the
majority of the members of the order
employed on the Union Pacific voted
against a strike and that union offi
cials availed themselves of the tech
nicality in the rules to overcome the
vote.
IMPERIAL ORDER PUBLIC.
BERLIN, Aug. 30. via London
The imperial order of Emperor Wil
liam removing General Erich von
Faklenhayn as chief of the general
staff, reads as follows:
"Not wishing to oppose your desire
to be relieved of your office, I seize
the opportunity to thank you heartily
i for the devotion and loyalty you have
t iliLililauail lupins 1 1 1 aat i. an ro t . .
your heavy and
reasonable office to!"1
which vou have devoted all vourlBn-v perishable freight which could
strength and initiative. What you ! ""the delivered before September 4.
(especially accomplished in your ener-j1" ',st "s,1 'he date waa set for
get ic and foreseeing labor and in your Saturday the L'nd. or S inday. The
indefatigable forethought for the army j PHrley of high railroad offcials w ho
and the fatherland never will be for- ere called to Chicago today, includ-
j gott"n." 'd Mr. Ripley, who was chosen spoken
MILITIA RECALLED.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 30. Or
ders for the return to their state
mobili.at.'jn camps of 15,000 na
tional guardsmen now on the
Mexican border were issued by
the war department tonight. Gen
eral Funston was directed to re-
turn three regiments from New
York, two from New Jersey, two
from Mist'juri and one each from
California. Oregon. Washington
and Louisiana.
Seen tary ttuker announced the
order after a conference with
President Wilson at the White
House. Earlier in the day the
dtpartment had ordered to their
home stations 6.000 regular c'jast
artillerymen who have been serv-
lug as infantry on the border.
Kegiments to be sent home
were not designated by number
and it is understood their selec-
tion is up to General Funston.
Department officials think there
is ample l'jrce on the border now
to insure proper protection. The
policy now is to give all state
troops called into the federal
service opportunity to see serv-
ice on war footing on the bor-
der.
:
III
NEW JERSEY
Company M, 4 th New Jersey
Guard, Refuses to Act Un
der Officers Chosen by the
- c Ty
Commander Ot KegimenL
N R
1
MLT
. i for hearings beginning at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning when representatives
(By Review Leased Wire) ' of both 8ides win be heari. Three hours will be given to each side and then
DOI GLAS. Aug. 30. Company M. j the coramiee iH begin drafting legislation Into shape Tor presentation to
Fourth New Jersey Infantry, from ; the Senate Saturday.
Hoboken, turned out armed with bay-1 1 One dominant thought In the minds
onets early today, refusing to drill on j MONTANA PRIMARIES. of the members of Congress, general-
the ground that Colonel Gc'jrge T. j HELENA, Mont., Aug. 30. With re- ly. resulted in the introduction of a
Vickers. commanding otlicer of the I turns from about one half the coun-1 resolution by Senator Lee of Mary
reginient, was.' attempting to force ties in the state, but none complete,! land, calling upon officials of the rail
them to elect First Lieutenant Hugh and perhaps one third 'jf the votes i road brotherhoods to postpone execu
M. Gillispie, commander of Company j counted, the nominees as the result ! tion of the strike order one week to
C. as their captain, it was said, at of yesterday's .state-wide primary ap- give sufficient time for intelligent
the regimental camp t'Jday. peared today to be as follows: consideration of legislation suggested
The men wish to elect their own United States senator M. L. My- in t-'ie President's message. The reso
first lieutenant. Arthur H. Esterly. to.ers. Democrat: C. N. Pray, Republi-j Iution was referred to the interstate
the vacancy, but say they were pro. can. , commerce committee without dis. in
hibited from doing so by an otlicial I Governor S. V. Stewart. Democrat; j sion. Opinion in the Senate cencen-
"requesf from Colonel Vickers that J- fcdwards. Republican. I trated on the urgent necessity for
they elect Lieutenant Gillispie. They) ('JUgress J. M. Evans and William emergency first; proposals for per
refused to hold the election, it is , Cutts. Democrats: G. W. Farr and manent legislation to be considered
stated, until such time as they i-jiild Mis Jeannette Rankin. Republicans. . thoroughly after danger or an i in
elect their own choice. mediate tie-up had been passed. This
After the men refused to drill an STRIKE LESSENS. sentiment was forcibly expressed on
order was issued assigning Lieutenant CHICAGO, Aug. 30 Likelihood of he f00"" and echoed in conference of
rranic a. veus to tne command of M
Company, temporarily, vice Captain ;
illiam M. Kroogs. who left tonight j
for his hbme on thirty days leave of !
absence pending acceptance of his !
resignation. After Lieutenant Esterly ;
pleaded with them the insubordinate
rntfinanv luif! ,liu-n Ha hnifMi..! . nn.t '
. .... ;
consented to drill
under Lieutenant !
Wells
I
Last ninht the men nf f p,Mnv
" - "
r.ura.lul Ika i '
f...uu .auii But-i-ia carrjiug a
(Continued on Page Two.) i
EMBARGOES ON
(By Review
CHICAGO, Aug. 30. Throughout
the entire country today the railroads
gathered their forces to oppose the
strike set for next Monday.
A summary of the situation, made
by E. P. Ripley, president of the
Atchison. Topeka and Santa Fe, who
was a member of the committee that
saw President Wilson, intensified the
pessimism felt here.
Mr. Ripley asserjed the railroads
can now see no hope of a settlement
before I .a bor Day and are making ev
ery preparation for eventualities.
Practically every principal railroad
in the country has issued embargoes
or is preparing to give them. They
affect perishable freight and livestock
I and passengers. Agents everywhere
l were instructed to warn passengers
prooaoie oeiays ana not to accept i
EXECUTIVES PREPARE FOR STRIKE
FOR ACTION TO STOP STRIKE
THREATENED NEXT MONDAY
Leaders of Brotherhoods Are
Cancel or Postpone Strike
May Be Able to Give the
Thought Before Acting on
Leaders Declare That the Revocation of Order Is Entirely Out
of Their Hands Senate Interstate Commerce Committee
Considers Legislation and Will Hear Both Sides to the
Controversy Today for Six Hours.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON'. Aug. 30. All the influence of the administration was
brought to bear today In an effort to persuade the railroad brotherhood lead-
ers to can,r'l or postpone the order
I leaders in Congress began paving the
cr stop the threatened industrial catastrophe. Little progress was made in
either direction, but nevertheless In official quarters they were still prevailed
that in one way or the other the walkout would be averted.
To the spokesman of President Wilson who appointed them, all tha
brotherhood officials gave the same reply, that they had no power to recall
the strike order and that only one thing a satisfactory settlement could
kep the men at work after Labor Day. Further pressure will be brought to
bear and as a last resort the President is considering a public appeal to the
men to have the order rescinded.
Apparently the legislation which is being counted upon to stay the
brotherhoods in that part of the President's program which would fix an eight
hour day for railroad employes engaged in operating trains in interstate
commerce and provide for an investigation of its effects by a commission or
board. This embodies the principal features ot fhe President's original plan,
accepted by the trainmen, and W. G. Lee. head of the trainmen, said tonight
that its enactment with a guarantee that the matter would receive prompt
action in Congress might go far toward satisfying the brotherhoods.
Thi Senatj virtnallv B!iti)tpai.Val 1, ... v .-1 1 - ...
day debate on the crisis, while the
STRIKE LESSENS.
CHICAGO, Aug. 30 Likelihood of
a eeneral Htrik .r rro!ht K-m.u.. ;
Eeneral strike t.f frei,.h. hn.ir
was lessened tonight when union
leaders declared that five railroads I
had announced their willingness to i
cced to the men's demands. The '
strike was against an order forbidding
business acents of the .mini. fr.
, -
collecting uues irom meuiDers durin
their hours Vf work.
..... ... " " " . . '
i ue roatis wnicn acrene,i in cm fi
uiiiu hi Hie iiiru are ine hock 1S1-(
, .
and. Illinois central, (ireat Western,
SL Paul and Nickle Plate.
ALL RAILROADS;
Leased Wire)
man. W. B. Storrer and E. D. Scwell.
vice-president of the Santa Fe. A. J.
Darling,- president of the Chicago.
Milwaukee and St. Paul. R. II. Aish
ton. of the Chicago and Northwestern.
H. B. Currie, president of the Missou-
ri Pacific, and W. G. Bird, president I
of the Chicago and Alton.
f n ! . I . i i . 1
all over it as he worked his
broad
shoulders through the crowd at the
station, and the expression translated
itself into words in his subsequent
statements.
He gave three statements. The first
statement was issued formally as the
expression of the party which return
ed from Washington; the second was
addressed to employes of the Santa
Fe and warned those who might obey
the strike order that they would lose
all rights of seniority and of benefits
from Insurance pension funds.
The third was Mr. Ripley's plan for
meeting the strike and an analysis of
the railroads' side of the controversy.
The three constituted a Mast of
(Continued on Page 1")
..ir. nipiej s lace una ngnt wriiin;Ior investigation pend'ng decision of
Beseiged by Administration to
Until Such Time as Congress
Question Full and Considerate
the Matter.
calling a nation-wide strike Monday, whil
way for legislation designed to prevent
" cmciPcuvj ir'-iiur uiu lor an an
interstate commerce committee arranged
House leaders.
The interstate commerce committee
discussed the proposed legislation late
in the day. but postponed action until
after tomorrow's hearing.
Tentative drafts of measures sub
mitted to the Senate committee and
communicated to all parties to the
I controversy during today's session in-
. . .
l,,,u ,,le i"""ng provisions to be
ntta,.l,u,I
Hlia lieu
to a pending bill which
would enlarge the interstate coai
merce commissiqn:
Establishment of eight hours as the
day's work for railroad employes op
erating trains in interstate commerce
and the appointment by the Presi
dent of a wage commission of three
members to observe the udminisi ra
tion and financial effects of the eight
hour day, the President to submit it
recommendations to the interstate
commerce commission; wages of em
ployes not to be reduced for a period
to bo determined below the present
standard day wage pending the re
port, and propose a portion to be paid
in excess of eight hours.
Amendment of existing legislation
directing the board of mediation and
fntiiHu 1 i t inn If i, . 1.1 t. in.lii...
e8 to sllbmlt controvprsies, to ,rbl.
trat'on. to refer differences to a board
thi eninlnver tn i-anso livrLmtt rr
employes to cause a strike; each
party to controversy to name one
member of the board of three mem
bers. Immediately after the tentative leg
islation had been made public general
debate was begun in the Senate on
the controversy. Senator Cummins
opening the discussion. The Iowa
senator asserted compulsory arbitra
tion was impracticable and unconsti
tutional and that any attempt to fix
maximum wage by law although
within the power of congress, was
doomed to failure, and that legisla
tion to prevent strikes by force of
lnw would be a practical prohibition
(Continued on Tage 2)
