h per, 527$28. f 7 WEATHER Utah: Fair tonight and
-v I W J Friday; not much change Intemper- 'H
I I ature. , H
l lxth YearNo, M FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. l
I; OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 3lTi916. Ent.r.d a. 3ecnd.cla.. Ma.r .t . ogd.n, UMJ
Congress and President Co-operate in I I
j Effort to A vert United Railroad Strike I
! . INDICATIONS ARE THEREWILxTbE NO STRIKE I
J BOTH HOUSES DEVOTE TIME TO
ENACTING PRESCRIBED PROGRAM
. m
Chief Executive Continues Conferences With Heads of Broth
erhcods Arranged to Induce Them to Rescind Order That
Would Paralyze Business of Nation Union Repre
sentatives Display Willingness to Grant Time
Necessary to Bring About Satis
factory Agreement.
Washington, Aug. 31. Railroad brotherh od officials
I late today, through A. B. Garretson, agreed to accept as a basis
for calling off the strike the Adamson compromise eight-hour
bill, already approved by President Wilson and house leaders.
. The measure was introduced immediately by Representative
Adamson with a view to having it passed and sent to the senate
( tomorrow.
The senate leaders soon afterward determined to intro
duce a similar measure in the senate tomorrow for immediate
action. It will be finally drafted by the senate interstate com
merce committee tonight.
The Adamson bill would provide for an eight-hour day
at the present ten-hour day pay, effective next December 1 .
Employes would be given the pro-rata rate for overtime. A
commission of three to be appointed by the president would
report to him and congress in not less than six nor more than
nine months the effect of the eight-hour day. Expenses would
be paid by a federal appropriation of $25,000.
Washington,. Aug. 31 Congress put
all other affairs aside today and de
voted itself to enacting President
Wilson's legislative program to avert
the railroad strike.
But tho president, overlooking no
possible means to prevent the threat
ened public calamity, did not depend
on congress alone and continued un
ceasingly his efforts to get the brother
hood heads to postpone their strike
order.
Just before noon the president went
to the capitol and, conferring with the
leaders, urged them on to the need of
speed to get the bills through the leg-
r islatlve machinery of house and senate
1 before Saturday night.
W Then, returning to the White House,
he called the four brotherhood hoads
before him for another appeal to de
lay their strike while congress by law
provides what the railroads have re
fused. Although the brotherhood leaders
reiterated that only "a favorable set
tlement" could only delay the strike
and that they were powerless to post
pone it, one of them admitted he be
lieved the rank and file of the men,
In view of the efforts being made in
congress, would vote to delay it If
there was time for them to express
their wishes.
Back of it all, President Wilson was
holding another card a direct nppeal
to the rank and file of the railroad
men to realize that congress is about
to give what they ask and to stay to
their posts. The presldetn was still
determined to do this, if necessary,
but was hoperul that it would not be.
While the senate interstate com
merce committee was hearing the rail
road heads, and the brotherhood lead
ers, tho house leaders got into action
and agreed on a bill introduced oy
Representative Adamson and ap
proved by President Wilson giving the
emploves the eight-hour day and pro
rata for overtime and. commission to
I investigate the new conditions. They
I plau to rush It through while the sen
V ate Is working. It did not include the
( compulsorv Investigation features of
the president's program but there
were indications that he would bo
satisfied with enough to prevent the
men from striking and take up tne
remainder later. ,
Meanwhile employers and men haa
a public hearing on the president s leg
islative program before the senate In
terstate commerce committee. The
men opposed tho compulsory investi
gation feature and tho employers op
posed the eight-hour day.
After the conference between tne
president and the brotherhood leaders,
it was Baid at the White House that
the employes "had given no assur
i ances of any kind."
Later formal announcement was
made that tho president and senate
and house leaders had agreed on the
' Adamson bill as a compromise bill.
It makes violation of Its provisions a
misdemeanor punishable by from Slot'
to $100,000 fine, or not exceeding one
, year imprisonment or both. The labor
leaders insisted on having a penalty
attached. A specinl rule eight-hour
day effective December 1.
In spite of tho Tact that the leaders
pave no assurances. It is is certain
Uf that the strike would ue caueu
I iiately if congress passes tho elgnt-
t ;our law which will be taken up m
t the house tomorrow. The brotherhood
II leaders are reluctant to take steps to
I i cancel the strike order until congress
if has acted. , .
I President Wilson told the leaders he
was doing everything posslblo to have
I
congress legislate to meet the situa
tion and that it was their duty as
American citizens to postpone or can
cel the strike order pending Its ac
tion. The president was said to have used
"some strong language" in talking to
the labor leaders.
President Wilson plans to spend
practically all of tomorrow forenoon
at the capitol in constant touch with
the legislative situation. Tomorrow's
cabinet meeting has been cancelled
to allow him to give his entire atten
tion to efforts to avert the strike.
Washington, Aug. 31. The eight
hour day bill, on which most congres
sional leaders agree if enacted by Sat
urdav night will be sufficient justifi
fication in opinion of brotherhood
leaders to call off the railway strike
set for Monday.
This today was the main source of
optimism that tho great industrial
tie-up would not occur.
Must Be Law Before Midnight
Saturday.
"Enactment into law of the presi
dent's eight-hour day bill as now
drawn, guaranteeing the present ten
hour day wage," said W. G. Lee, head
of the trainmen's brotherhood, "will
be regarded as a satisfactory settle
ment of our difficulties with tho rail
ronds and there will be no strike. In
order to prevent a strike, however,
this hill must become a law before
next Saturday midnight."
The senate interstate committee ar
ranged Its first public hearings on
the measure today and allowed three
hours each 'for argument by brother
hood leaders and railroad officials.
The plan was to present the finished
draft to the senate Saturday ready for
immediate action.
House to Act Friday.
The house, however, was not dis
posed to wait so long. They set Fri
day afternoon as the time when they
should take the initiative if the sen
ate had not passed the hill by that
time and pass the measure which
go Into effect November 1.
The measure contemplated would
establish eight-hours as the standard
work day for railroad employes en
gaged In interstate commerce; It
would authorize appointment by the
president of a commission to study
general conditions under the eight
hour day, and report its recommenda
tions to congress, the president and
through tho president to the Interstate
commerce commission; pending the
report dally wages should not be re
duced below tho present pay for long,
er hours.
Effective Emergency Legislation.
Other measures were under con
templation besides eight-hour day and
investigalion proposals were regarded
as tho effective pieces of emergency
legislation.
The attitude of congress today, that
of determination to prevent tho strike
was exemplified by the resolution
pending in the senate, calling on the
brotherhood officials to suspend the
striko order for one week; and the
tbo statement of Senator Thomas that
if the government failed to protect
the public in such a crisis It had no
right to call itself a government.
oo
Washington, Aug. 31. Senate:
Hearing on strike legislation by inter
state commerce committee.
House: Considered general defi
ciency bill.
House leaders conferred with Postmaster-General
Burleson and others
regarding threatened strike.
HEARINGS ON
STRIKEJSPliTE
President Meets Brotherhood
and Administration Leaders
Urges Congress to Act.
CIVIL WAR FEARED
Newlands Warns Senate of
Serious Results If Fight Is
Carried to Extremes.
Washington, August 31. 'Railroad
officials and representatives of tho
trainmen's brotherhoods appeared In
force today at the senate interstate
commerce committee's hearings on
President Wilson's legislative pro
gram to prevent the threatened rail
way strike.
Elisha Lee, of the railroad presi
dents' committee, headed the railroad
officials among whom were included
Samuel Rea, president of the Penn
sylvania, Fairfax Harrison, president
of the Southern, and R. S. Lovett,
chairman of the board of the Union
Pacific.
Representing the men were A. B.
Garretson, W. G. Lee, W. S. Stone
and W. S. Carter, the four brother
hood heads. Officials of the Ameri
can Federation of Labor, headed by
Samuel Gompers, Assistant Attorney
General Todd and E. S. Clark of the
Interstate Commerce Commission also
were present.
Senator Newlands spoke of the
short time remaining for congress to
act and said:
May Cause Civil War.
"This present dispute, if carried to
its extremes, will involve the United
States in a civil war. The question
Is whether we cannot find some means
of bringing about a settlement of
this, dispute between employers and
employes without resort to force."
The brotherhood representatives
were heard first. At tho request of
Mr. Garretson, it was agreed that
the brotherhood leaders should ad
dress the committee two hours In
opening and an hour in closing. Be
tween those periods, representatives
of the shippers and railroads have six
hours. Besides the heads of the four
brotherhoods, Samuel Gompers, presi
dent of the American Federation of
Labor, also would speak.
Garretson Reviews Situation.
Mr. Garretson then began with a
general review of the circumstances
which led up to the present condi
tions. It was the belief of labor organiza
tions, he said, that differences be
tween employers and employes should
not be settled by legislation, but rath
er between themselves.
"The strike of any labor organiza
tion lies, to an extent, in its mili
tancy," he said. "We are in the grip
of a power greater than wo, and it is
unfortunate that this situation has
arisen, but I believe if a settlement
can be effected by congress even
though we are opposed to legislative
settlements, wc are willing to waive
the age-old tradition against it.
Thousands Work Long Hours.
"Today thousands of men through
out this country are working from
twelve to sixteen hours, of which."
there is no complete record. I
"The brotherhoods demand the hu-i
man right to enjoy some of the things
that other men enjoy.
"Wo believe that tho human ele
ment should be considered regardless
of its effect on dividends. Tho obli
gation on the part of the railroad
employer is as great to keep the hu
man element in good condition as tho
wooden and iron property of the
road."
Mr. Garretson arguedthat the effect
of an increased wage or dividends
had not been considered when it was
obvious that employes were being
paid a proper wage.
"The bankrupt road cannot buy its
coal any cheaper than one which is
paying 33 per cent, then why any
railroad buy its labor for less than
it Is worth because a wage increase
would decrease its profits?"
Railroad Plea Insincere.
Attacking the railway's plea for ar
bitration as Insincere, Mr. Garretson
insisted thnt It was not offered to
men who were so poorly organized
that they could not enforco their de
mands. "I declare in behalf of these men,"
Mr. Garretson said emphatically, "that
there is evidence of a deadly danger
underlying the social crust and that
it Is liable to be brought to the sur
face unless means are found to settle
this difficulty before It can reach the
danger stage."
-Frequently, he declared, the brother
hood officials could only call off the
strike by reporting that a satisfactory
settlement had been made.
Garretson Declares Attitude.
To postpono tho strike after tho
Continued on page 6.)
HIS TROOPS SOON TO
King Ferdinand of Roumanisr.
Rumania's "declaration of war
against Austria-Hungary immediate
ly followed a recent meeting of the
crown council at Bucharest King
Ferdinand, the kaiser's cousin, is pre
pared to throw 500,000 trained sol
diers into the field in aid of the allies. '
Rumania's sjrmpathy with France
has long: inclined her to this action.
Balkan State Lets Down
Bars and Slavonic
Ally Enters.
Bucharest, Tuesday, Aug; 29 Offi
cial announcement was made hero
today that the passage of Russian
troops, through Rumania has begun.
London, Aug. 31. 4:58 p. m. It was
officially announced today that the
British casualties, killed, wounded
and missing, on all fighting fronts in
the month of August totalled -1,711
officers and 123,324 men.
Athens, Wednesday, Aug. 30, via
London, Aug. 31, 1:33 p. m. Rapid
developments in the diplomatic situ
ation here today make it apparent
that within 48 hours Greece will have
abandoned the policy of neutrality in
the war.
King Constantino will receive tho
French minister tomorrow (Thurs
day) and the Russian and British
ministers shortly afterward. All staff
officers on leave have been recnlled
for active service.
GERMANS EJECTED
Paris, Aug. 31, noon. German
troops penetrated the French trenches
in Parroy forest in Lorraine last
night but were immediately ejected
by a counter attnek, says today's an
nouncement of the war office.
London, Aug. 31, G:1G p. m. A
Router dispatch from Bucharest says
the commander of the Russian forces
in Rumania arrived today at Buchar
est with his staff and received an en
thusiastic welcome fro inthe people.
He will have an audienco with tho
king tomorrow.
MACKENSEN TO COMMAND
ri . n Aue" 31. 12:52 p. m. The
Wireless Press quotes the Berne,
Switzerland and the Geneva Journal
to the effect that the famous German
commander, Field Marshal von Mack
ensen, will take charge oflho cam
paign of the Balkans,-' having -been
Iron Works for Ogden I
Are to Cost $100,000 I
and Employ Many Men
Within sixty days Ogden will have
one of the largest iron works in the
west. Plans for the plant were com
pleted yesterday and the breaking of
ground will be started some time next
week.
The company back of the new In
dustry is to be known as the Ogden
Iron Works, with a capital of 100,
000, and the buildings to be erected
will cover ground 100x100 feet, be
virtually two stories high, and house
some of the largest pieces of ma
chinery ever brought to this state.
Promoters of Industry.
The incorporators and officers of
the company are:
Joseph Scowcroft, president.
Marriner Browning, vice president.
R. B. Porter, vice president.
L. T. Dee, secretary and treasurer.
The foregoing with L. R. Eccles,
R. E. Bristol, O. B. Gilson and C. S.
Osgood form the board of directors.
James W. Silver, one of the best
known foundry and machine men In
the state, Is general manager.
Among the stockholders are M. S.
Browning, Adam Patterson, Eccles
appointed commander-in-chief of all
the Ijalkan armies of the Germanic
lQagiie.
PROHIBITION ORDER
Bucharest, Aug. 31, via London,
5:19 p. m. The police commissioners
have forbidden the sale and consump
tion of alcoholic liquors in all estab
lishments through Rumania .under
penalty of severe punishment.
ATTACKS REPULSED
Berlin, Aug. 31, via London, 4.40
p. m. Today's official statement re
garding the western front: "In the
sector extending on both sides of
Armentieres the enemy developed
lively artillery activity. His recon
noltoring detachments which ad
vanced after strong artillery bom
bardment in surprise attacks were
repulsed."
LOSSES HEAVY
Petrograd, Aug. 31, via London, 2:30
p. m. "On Wednesday morning, after
a short artillery preparation," says
today's official report, "the enemy at
tacked our positions north of Petin,
on the western bank of the Stokhod
river northeast of Kovel. The at
tacks were repulsed with severe
losses to the enemy."
WANTS HELP OF TURKS
London, Aug. 31, 2:50 p. m. The
Wireless Press today gave out a
Rome dispatch saying Bulgaria has
stipulated she must have the assist
ance of 200,000 Turks as a condltiou
for a declaration of war on her part
against Rumania.
BAVARIANS SURRENDER
London, Aug. 31, 4:15 p. m. "In
the operations south of Martinpulch
(Somme) reported last night," says
today's British official statement,
"two officers and 124 soldiers of other
ranks surrendered. They belonged
to a Bavarian regiment. We dis
charged gas over a broad front near
Arras and also near Armentiers with
good results. The enemy shelled Be
thune last night which led to heavy
retaliation from our guns."
OCCUPY BULGAR TOWN
Paris, Aug. 31, 4 p. m. Rumanian
troops, according to a report received
here, havo occupied the Bulgarian
town of Rustchuk. Rustchuk has a
population of about 35,000 and is
situated on the Danube opposite the
Rumanian town of Guegrlvo.
NO DEVELOPMENTS
London, Aug. 31, 2:22 p. m. "Ex
cept for artillery activity, there were
no developments on our Struma or
Doiran fronts, says an official an
nouncement Issued here today in re
gard to the Macedonian campaign.
HEAVY LOSSES
OF BULGARIANS
f London, Aug. 31 (5:30 a. m.) The
fighting Is very severe all along tho
Macedonian front, says an Athens de
spatch to tho WirelesB Press, which
adds that the Bulgarian regiments
suffered a severe check at the hands
of the Serbians on tho entente left
flank and that tho Bulgarian losses
are estimated at. 15,000.
Bulgarian regiments attacked the
Serbians In close formation after the
German style near Lorovz- and suffer
ed severely. ;They were compelled to
ask for reinforcements from Valbank
cni and Kastoria,
company, Thos. D. Dee company, J.
W. Levedahl, R. H. Hodge, Chapin
A. Day and P. D. Kline.
The company will absorb the West
ern Foundry and Machine company
and its works.
The site of the plant is the ground
now occupied by the Western Found
ry and Machine company, with addi
tional pieces of real estate acquired
within the last month, totalling two
acres, most favorably situated as re
gards railroad trackage.
The main building will be of steel
frame with reinforced concrete and
will have two bags, with one devoted
to the foundry business and the oth
er to the machine shops, and both
equipped with electric traveling
cranes. Tho largest pieces of ma
chinery will be a Whiting cupola with
a capacity of five tons an hour, and
a 16-foot boring well. All the ma
chinery has been contracted for and
should bo on the ground as soon as
the foundations are In place.
Work Starts Immediately.
; R. B. Porter, who is one of the prin-
RAILROAD HEADS
RUSHING PLANS
Practically None Hope for
Peaceable Strike Settlement
Before Monday Morn
ing. MEN TO BE PUNISHED
New Problem Faces Execu
tives 30,000 Shopmen
Demand Eight-hour
Day.
Chicago, Aug. 31. While the state
ment of W. G. Lee, president of tho
Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen
that passage of President Wilson's
eight-hour day bill would be regarded
as satisfactory adjustment of the
strike situation, was regarded as im
portant by railway men here, prepara
tions against a strike on Monday pro
ceeded without abatement
Embargoes covered freight ship
ments on practically every mile of
main track In the country and presi
dents of railroads in Chicago met at
the Chicago club to discuss their prob
lems. It was said they would hire
new men through a general commit
tee and would-co-onerate to run trains
wheer most needed.
The wheat market, which broke ex
treme 4 1-4 cents on the Pennsylvania
railroad's embargo yesterday, opened
with important recessions today. Tho
Chicago Grain Receivers association
notified' shippers to withhold ship
ments for the present.
The livestock embargo was reflect
ed in an advance in prices of live
stock at the Union Stockyards today.
Hogs advanced 25 cents; cattle 10 to
20 cents, and sheep 20 to 40 .cents
higher than yesterday's average.
A strike of 35,000 shopmen em
ployed on nineteen railroads of the
middle west will he averted, said W.
J. Tollerton, chief of the mechanical
department of the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific railroad, today fol
lowing his conference with representa
tives of tho Rock Island shopmen who
demand an eight-hour day and an In
crease of five cents an hour In wages.
"We havo made a compromise offer
to our shopmen which practically
amounts to granting- half of their de
mands, and believe that after several
more weeks of controversy will be
settled," Tollerton said.
Chicago, August 31. Presidents
and operating officials of tho rail
roads of tho country are in confer
ence today for the purpose of formu
lating plans to operate trains in the
event that the strike of the four
brotherhoods of trainmen, set for
next Monday morning, takes place.
Practically none of the railroad
pressed in some quarters in Washing
ton, that passage of the eight-hour
bill by Congress would avert a strike,
and, according to E. P. Ripley, presi
dent of the Atchison, Topoka and
Santa Fe, spokesman for the party of
railroad presidents who returned
from Washington yesterday, the rail
roads will proceed on tho assumption
that tho strike will come on Labor
Day.
EMBARGOES BEGIN
Embargoes begin, today; on every
cipal organizers of the company, says
work will start within ten days and (H
the plant will be ready for operation 'H
sixty days thereafter. iH
The company will specialize in the
manufacture of sugar machinery and
be prepared to build a sugar factory
complete in every detail.
All standard lines of mining ma
chlncry will he constructed and
structural steel will be handled. Pig
iron for the foundry will be Imported
from the east.
Leslie Hodgson is the architect and
he has prepared an elaborate set of
Exceptionally fine sand has been
found near Ogden for foundry pur-
Bids on the construction work are
to be called for during the week.
Ie is estimated that seventy-five
men will be employed in the plant to
begin with and the Industry will be
capable of expanding into one of the -M
biggest enterprises ever established in 'M
this state.
trunk line In the country. The em-
bargoes, according to present plans, fl
will become effective in the following
Effective at tho close, of business
tomorrow, an embargo on all ship
ments of explosives and inflammables
of every kind.
Effective at the close of business
tomorrow, an embargo on all ship- iH
ments of perishable freight, includ- 'M
ing livestock, dressed beef, live and
dressed poultry, fresh fruits and vege
tables. Effective at the close of business ' 'M
Saturday an embargo on all freight
of all kinds from all points to all
destinations.
WARNING TO PASSENGERS
Most of the roads also give warning
to passengers that they should end
their journeys before 7 a. m., Mon- '
day, or be subject to Indefinite delay. '
Railroad officials plan to run at least
one passenger train a day on every t
road and in each case, it is announced,
preference will be given to milk
The railroads will not carry on the .
fight single handed, but, according to
tentative plans, will pool their re
sources. STRIKEBREAKERS TO BE HIRED . JM
Strikebreakers, it is understood, will
be hired not by individual roads but
by a central committee of all the t!
roads and distributed where they are 'jH
most vitally needed. If one road sue
ceeds in moving trains while the
tracks of another are stalled, the sue
cessful road will lend a helping hand (
to the road in distress.
The plan for a harmonious assist- jl
ance of all the roads would be defi
nitely formed today at the Chicago 'H
club of 200 high railroad officials in H
tho citv.
SYSTEM OF PUNISHMENT H
In an effort to discourage strike
sentiment the railroads have an- jH
nounced a system of punishment and -H
rewards. Employes who go on
strike will forfeit their seniority priv-
ileges. New men taken on will be jH
given preferment in promotion. Guar-
antees of protection have been given jH
to employes who remain loyal to the
companies. jH
Chicago detectives have been ad- IH
vertising for strikebreakers and re
port more than a thousand ready to
go to work.
FACING NEW PROBLEM H
Independent of the railway striko ,IH
railroad officials are facing a new iH
problem in the strike of 35,000 on ' H
railroads west of Chicago. Unless the
demands for au eight-hour day and
five cents an hour wage increase they i jH
will announce they will take a Btrike
vote on September 9. Tho men in- .
volved are machinists, boiler makers, J jH
blacksmiths, sheet metal workers I
and car men. j jH
Chicago city officials will meet to- il
day to tabulate the city's food supply
and discuss local transportation.
TEMPORARY INJUNCTION GRANT
The temporary injunction granted
by state courts of Omaha and Kansas ' iH
City yesterday restraining tho gen- 1 HH
oral and local officials of the Order 1 JH
of Railway Conductors from calling
or enforcing a strike on the Union Pa- IH
cific railroad was the subject of much
discussion today by officials of rail- if
way companies. Whether suits of ' ijH
similar nature would be brought on 'iH
other roads had not been determined jlH
today.
The embargo on livestock will cause (H
a shortage of fresh meats in various 'H
cities in a few days, according to
packers, and in many instances the ;jH
prico of meats has already gone up. ( IH
TRAIN RUN ON FAST SCHEDULE J
Commission merchants in various jl
parts of the country 'ho had ship- jH
ments of perishable goods started en- Hl
(Continued. pn,Pago U) , 'H
