ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
BRINGS TRADE
for July, 1916 J JL*\J
A Quality Newspaper for the Hem*
Northern West Virginia's Greatest Newspaper
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 31,1916.
BLISHEP1868,
TODAY'S NEWS TODAY
PRICE TWO CENTS
ommittee Will Take Steps
to Secure Packet Ser
vice.
IEETI1 THIS EVENING
ns Already Made for
Through Service to
Parkersburg.
ILwith nothing to indlcato that the
-railroad strike order will not go into|
jfeffect on next Monday morning, the;
""ffgnbers of the River Traffic commit- j
TBTtHe Fairmont Improvement As-1
Option, will likely meet this after-!
.-Jfiin the office of the chairman Earl
? Smith, in the Watson building to I
-range for river packet service be
Jjreen Fairmont and Pittsburgh. Such
Menftce will be inaugurated in case
[qtfa railroad freight tio/up, if a boat
can be secured. 1
i "A complete suspension of freight |
traffic on the railroads for from teni
days to a month, will surely be the re
(suit If the strike order becomes ef
ifective," said Chairman Smith today.
"As Fairmont deponds largely upon
Pittsburgh for its wholesale demands,
rJhere should be no serious inconven
ience felt here, If the business peoplo
Mil patronize a boat service and the
[committee is able to establish one.
fc .^Pittsburgh papers today tell of a
?movement on foot at the water front
lln that town to give Fairmont a once
|*?week service with a packet operat
ling from Fairmont to Parkersburg and
?return," continued Mr. Smith. "In
?case of a strike and of an indication
?of lufficlent patronago on the Mo
?unjigabela river, this boat might be
pt; altogether In the upper waters,
-iratlng between Fairmont and Pitts-1
?gh. This means it could mako two i
irid trips a week. Such a service
while not as swift as rail frolght.
Tould be far better than suffering the
ffdcjtfjof a complete tie-up."
"Tie movement on foot In Pltts
*j explained by the Post as fol
jgth the possiblity of a railroad
^ke in view, rivermen are taking
HKautions to take care of the ship
tag by water. Captain Herman Rod
ny|pf the Rodgers Sand company,
a yesterday that the company will
We immediately to put its boats!
M?rvice and take care of the shfp
JfipZ; Captain Harry Donnelly of
Transportation company
f|a?that it may be possible to bring I
Reuben Dunbar up the river and
tCfriher in the local trade.
Intention of putting a packet
'?Winer tn the Pittsburgh-Fairmont
a,8 within a few weeks Is fast be
?ming a reality. If the steamer Ruth
r? placed in commission on a oncea
Week schedule between Fairmont and
"Iteraburg large cargoes can be de
...Jred by the river route between
Jtese two points without re-shipping I
Wheeling and Parkersburg are heavy I
- of Srocerles, merchandise
?and hardware to Fairmont and the I
Wpg by river greatly will reduce
-vy freight rates between these
5)000 Guardsmen
Are Ordered Home
AUg' 31" ~ ?">ere
L ur!J '? thelr state mobillza
jn camps of 15,000 National Ouards
.on.tt? Mexican border were
gued last night by the War Depart
K 5L , Ge??ral Funs(on was directed
'hreo regiments from New I
nfinMo , ? New Jersey. two from
two from Missouri and one
-y-jta from California, Oregon Wash
|togton and Louisiana.
"lcretary Baker announced the or-1
^Tne!ifath?n^euCe?wlth p?sidentJ
/J1? White IIollBe- Earlier
fle day the department had ordered I
anJi??I?4m8tatl0nsC 6 000 rcS"lar
"^ajtiiierymen, who have been
ag as Infantry on the border.
lore Lincoln
District Litigation
f"""!5','8, commissioners and
J?11 committee
WwH .? E IC bond today to ap.
Vlrinln ^0 iUPr,e.me C0Urt ?f
in the Lincoln district
Jud?? Mason,
SkLI P? i? ourt? Srnnted an ap
conrta?M^nf ? "!!? '"Juac'ion In
>Conrt, which is another victory for
2?? are opposing the bond Issue,
-?oversea the ruling made recent.
rlii?tV?,8:0 Kemb,o White and will
Mt the county court from laying
li the th? boni,9
me Court by tlle Sa'
NOTICE.
Ders of city water are notl
lat an impure condition In
=?*er ?reva"8 at this time and
Iff water for drinking purpos
i_ recommended by the City
^.e??"?6nt- 1118 impurity
jrobably be corrected within a
Fairmont Food
Reserve is Not
Very Extensive
CITY WOULD BE APT TO FEEL A
PINCH IF STRIKE LASTED
MANY DAYS.
just where Fairmont will n.ati.1 In
the event that the railroad men on the
iMxnri'tMiela railway and th.i 1U tl_
morr and Ohio railway whicn cnler
I?* city on either side of t?e
ro cut on strike, cannot ?o dchiiUei:
(0'C'.''n by several ot the IrjElii-aa
mer lr the city One who. i,"-lor suites
t' at the supply of goods will he swal
low: d up In 30 minutes while 'i no
ot)i?T feels that the presint rate he
kudu f. last a week wl..i so:ne sta
ples. The latter stated that should
the people of Fairmont lay up a sup
ply, say two cans of corn to whore
they formerly used one tho storeB
would close in three or four days
I Should they take halt dozen cans, the
evening of Monday next will be closing
oocTcanuot' be got into Fairmont
unless It comes on the ?n trains run
dally on the Baltimore and Ohio and
the Monongahola. These ten trains
handle food shipments and will be
cut off at seven o'clock Monday raorn
ins next. With the supply which the |
most optimistic dealer in the city says,
will last but a week at nor")al. c0.n" i
sumption gone, Fairmont will be in
the hands of starving men and wo
men from raining towns who undoubt
edly will flock to the city when the
' (Continued on Page Eight.)
First Train to Arrive in Fair
mont Will Consist of 50
Cars
it became known "sere today that un
less the trainmen's strike interferes
with the plane of Pre5iden.{
the Western Maryland railroad, the
first train of that road will arrive in
Fairmont Monday morning and there
after Western Maryland service will
be a regular thing In this ^strict. ThiB
will be a very great relief In the coal
freight situation. t .
The initial train will consist or a
Western Marylanu locomotive and. BO
ooal cars. The train will go direct to
the Helens nun branch of the Western
Maryland road and coal from the Ida
May and Carolina mines will be taken
out for shipment to tidewater by way
of Connellsville and the Western Mary
land main line.
At present the mines on Helens run
are turning out about 14 car loads of
coal each per day. This has been go
ing to market in Baltimore and Ohio
equipment. The Output will be in
creased as rapidly as possible until
these mines are among the most im
portant producers in the district.
Two Little Kicks
But They Came High
It certainly doesn't pay to go see
Nick Varbanovuch'a hired girl for Nick
will not allow It. A young friend of
the girl gained entranco through
Nlck'B kitchen a few nights ago nnd
was cooing to tho girl of the range,
when Nick hearing whispers, went to
the kitchen and kicked the man out.
It took two kicks to get the young
lover clear of the door and two were
forthcoming. In Squire M. R. Mus
grove's court yesterday Nick said that
he only gave the young fellow two lit
tle kicks and asked what in the world
two big kicks would coat, as the fine
and costs assessed him amounted in
all to $13.65. He paid. The line was
'&Adolph Pallonl was sent to Jail for
bootlegging at Grant Town yesterday
by Squire M. R. Musgrove. He waa
given 60 days and 5200.
Sent to Jail On
Bad Check Charge
Charley Hawker, charged with
passing several bad checks over
r psriod of several months was
sent to jail yesterday by Justice
of tho Peace Musgrove in defaut of
redemption of the paper. Hawker,
who was at one time an active and
brilliant member of the Marion county
bar and who has upon aoveral occas
ions haxdled Important real estate
deals for large corporations Is well
known aB one of the most capable men
in the city. For sometime he has
teen in ill health and after handing
out the checks waa unable to meet
them. He will he prosecuted on four
offenses unless some one comes to his
reiroe ahortlj.
"POISON FARM" ON HILLSIDE NEAR LITTLE VALLEY OVER WHICH AGENT OF DEATH HOVERS
FOR FOURTH TIME IN FOUR YEARS.
Poison Farm Produces New Mystery
Unusual Precautions to Be
Taken to Prevent Dis
ease Spread.
Fearing infantile paralysis and other
epidemics among the children of the
city the Fairmont City Board of Educa
tion and the City Health Board are
planning to exclude every child that is
troubled with eye, ear, nose and throat
affections or other trouble indicating
the liability of disease transmission
from the public schools at the opening
on September 11. This action is now
considered rather that the postpone
ment of the opening date for severat
weeks.
The City Health officials and the
Board of Education have been inves
tigating the situation for several days
past and it was at first feared that the
opening of the school date would have
to be postponed. The matter however
was discussed at the meeting of the
Marion County Medical Society Tues
day evening and a unanimous resolu
tion passed by that body endorsing
the present plan of the school ana
health boards and the details of the
nlanner in which the enforcement of
these regulations are to be carried
out.
Four additional medical inspectors
besides those now employed in the
Fairmont schools are to be engaged
to make a thorough and rigid examina
tion of every child that applies for en
trance to the schools and the appli
cant will either be given a certificate
of health admitting them to the school
or else a statement of the child's con
dition will be given to the parents bo
(Continued on Pago Eight.)
CRAWFORD TO LEAVE
COAL MICE
James C. Crawford, who has been
the head of the commercial depart
ment of the Consoldiation Coal com
pany, today announced that he intend
ed to retire from the service at the
end of this month.
Coming to Montana Mines from
Cameron, W. Va., thirty years ago,
James C. Crawford has served con
tinuously since, as store manager at
Montana for a number of years, from
where he went to New England store
serving in like capacity for a long
period; after which he was promoted
to general manager of stores of the
old Fairmont coal company, and at
one time supervised all of the buying
for the different stores of the coal
company. Mr. Crawford has had an
ambition to fill out the thirty years,
which ends in September this year,
and he haB announced hiB retirement
after that date.
Mr. Crawford has proven himself to
be not only a merchant of unusual
ability but a business man of mark
ed degree, and has not only made a
success of his work with his associates
in the coal business, but has made
a distinct individual success in his
private business affairs. The officials
in the Coal company learned of Mr.
Crawford's intention to retire with
much regret, and many of the older
ones will look back a score or moro
of years, when the organization of
their now big company was in its
infancy and remember "Jim" Craw
ford as being one of the pioneers and
mainstays.
At the offices of the Coal company
where the decision of Mr. Crawford
was received, all were surprised and
stated no successor had been chosen
| to take care of Mr. Crawford's work.
,
PRESENT TENANT
OF BUFFOM FARM
WAS POISONED
As In Previous Cases the
Active Agent Was
Arsenic.
LITTLE VALLEY, N. Y? Aug. 31.?
Baffling mystery again surrounds the
notorious poison farm here where Wil
lis Buffom and his two children died
from arsenical poisoning three years
ago with the result that Cynthia Buf
fom, wife and mother, is serving a 20
year sentence for murder^ ?S*"?r
Today Elmer Blotner, a'young farm
er, shuffles about the hillside "mur
der farm" like a man with locomotor
ataxia, his body stooped and shaking,
his nerves shattered from arsenic
which Cattaraugus county officials be
lieve was given him with murderous
intent
What unknown power beckons death
to this spot and casts a spell of terror
over the quiet, hard working farmers
who warn the visitor to beware of the
springs on the hillside?
The springs, whose waters are as
cool and sweet as those of Lebanon,
| are in danger of .being poisoned, the
[ farmers believe, and all shun them as
they would pest pools.
Three times in 1913 death stalked
onto the "poison farm" and carried
away a victim.
The present day mystery, however,
is more baffling because Elmer Blot
ner, the poisoned man, scouts the idea
that an attempt was made to murder
him. Ho refuses to believe his illness
was caused by arsenic, although Dr.
Herbert M. Hill, noted chemist, reports
he found the poison in the farmer's
hair and luigernails.
Blotner was taken violently ill Mem
orial day. Dr. Hillsraan dlagnoseu
his ailment as arsenical poisoning. The
young farmer was taken to Buffalo for
treatment. Since his return ho has
been questioned closely by county of
ficials on the theory an attempt v-s
made on his life.
In Little Valley the Blotner case is
discussed in whispers. Everybody
has a different theory.
The linger of suspicion has been
pointed at three different persons but
county officials admit they have not
enough evidence to secure an indict
ment.
Names that figured prominently in
the Buffom case are heard on the Hps
of villagers.
(Continued on Page Eight)
Union Pressure
For Congressmen
Jack New, secretary of the Monon
gahela Valley Trades and Labor Coun
cil received a telegram from Samuel
Gompers this morning calling atten
tion to the emergency labor legislation
now before Congress and urging that
the Congressman from this district
and the Senators from the state be
communicated with in opposition to
compulsory arbitration in any form.
W. M. Rodgers, president of the
council, immediately called a meeting
of tho body for Sunday. In the mean
time the various locals will take ac
tion. This evening the carpenters and
bricklayers will meet and special
attention will be paid to the"Gompers'
request.
The Weather.
WoBt Virginia?Generally (air and
warmer today and Friday.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS.
F. P. Hall, Obierver.
Temperature at 8 a. m. today, 55. ?
Yesterday's weather, clear; temper
ature, maximum, 85; minimum, SI;
precipitation, nona.
11 Ml
ACID FROM
SULPHUR BALLS
?
Local Company to Manufac
ture Sulphuric Acid
From Mine Waste
The Fairmont Chemical company
which was receutly incorporated with
a capital of $25^,000. will, according
to G. M. Alexander, one of the direc
tors, issue approximately $100,000 of
the capital stock oC which $25,000
will be used as working capital and
$75,000 invested in the plant to be
built near the present plant of the
Fairmont Brick company along the
Valley river. C. D. Robinson, Frank
Hess, Harry Williamson and A. M.
Rowe are the other incorporators of
this company.
The plans of the plant are now be
ing prepared by Ludwig Theil, a chem
ical engineer of Columbus, Ohio, and
as soon as completed the construction
of the plant will begin and within the
next four months is expected to be
ready for operation.
Sulphuric acid from "sulphur balls"
is to be the chief product of this plant
and Mr. Alexander stated today that
approximately 100 tons of acid per
day could be produced from the sul
phur balls that are now a waste pro
duct of the mines along the river.
These "sulphur balls" are in reality
a form of iron pyrites or iron sul
phide and can be converted into sul
phuric acid and iron ore by the lead
chamber process.
The "sulphur balls" occur in the
coal strata and only in recent years
have been used in the manufacture
?of acrtd. Formerly sulphuric acid
was manufactured from iron pyrites
imported from Germany.
Once these balls are heated by gas
they will almost burn of themselves
so that the plant will require but lit
tle fuel for operation. Absolutely no
waste or byproduct is produced at
such a plant so that no injurious mat
ter of any kind will drain Into the
Valley river. The sulphur from the
balls mixes with water and forms the
acid while the iron Is left as ash and
will be sold as iron ore. Sulphur acid
at the present market price for the
crude grade which will be manufac
tured here, is selling at $2? per ton*
Brakeman Haney
Took Fatal Leap
J. L. Haney. aged 22 years, brake
man on the Baltimore and Ohio rail
road, was struck by a passing train at
Farmington last night and killed.
Haney was braking on a freight train
which had taken siding at Underwood
to permit train No. 12 to pass. As No.
12 was going by he jumped from his
train and was struck on the head. His
skull was fractured. The body was
picked up and t-ought to the city on
train No. 12 getting here at 5:07 p. m.
After being prepared at the Jenkins
undertaking establishment, the body
was sent to Flatwoods above Weston
for burial. Haney made his home at
Bellvlew with I. G. Parks and was a
good brakeman with a record for care
fulness.
NO ARRE8TS YET.
No arrests have been made in the
Llpson Jewelry Store robbery case In
which $500 worth of rings and other
small trinkets were taken. The po
lice are active and are working sub*
rosa giving out nothing for publica
tion until another clue or two are run
down.
NEW CLERK
Camden Kellar, of Newark, Ohio, ar
rived in Fairmont today to take the
position at the local United Wollen
Mill store, formerly filled by Ed Har
dy. Mr. Kellar has had 12 years ex*
BEGIN III I Si
Spokesmen For the Brotherhoods State Their Side of th?
Case First?Seem to Fear Some Sort
of Coercion.
PRESIDENT AGAIN VISITS THE CAN!
(By Associated Press.)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31?WTillo Congress got down to work today on Pm J
ident Wilson's legislative program to prevent a railroad Blrike the President
himself renewed his efforts to get the brotherhood leaders to recall stfjko or- j
der and at the same time took steps to hurry Congress along. j
He summoned brotherhood leaders to the White House for two o'C
and made arrangements to go to the capitol to confer with admlnii
leaders there.
The President expects that the action of the railroadal in issuing embargo j
orders against perishable freight, thus affecting foods will have some effect In
quickening action by Congress. *
The statement of Brotherhood leaders that if the 8 hour law is ptieMi by
I Saturday the strike order will be rescinded led the President to redoabltrhll
efforts to have the measure raUhcd.
Word was sent to the Inter State Commerce committee of the Senate tint
the President wanted to confer with the Senators on hastening legislative
action. The committee authorized Senators Pomerene of Ohio, and Smith
of South Carolina to confer with the President. Senators Pomerene enmSifl^
after talking with the President half an hour returned to the hearing. "1
j president wants action that is all we can say" said Senator Pomerene. I <
not believe that there will be a strike. I cannot believe that any >et?Ot 1
will paralyze the industries of the country."
After the Senator's departure Majority Leader Kltchln, Represent!
Adamson and Postmaster General Burleson went into conference with;' I
President.
"I have Just been keeping In touch with things to see that they keep movtn|?:|;;-L,
said President Wilson as he left the conference with the Congressional lNdenk'^K
The President's face was seamed with a broad smile. Chairman Adamson of _r
the interstate Commerce Commlttoe of the House said "we will pass the'81
bill introduced today in the Houbc .tomorrow. It will include the piWfft
for an investigation of the effect of the eight hour day on the railroad!; '
we believe will prevent the strike." -
Following the conference the President returned to the White Hons*.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31.?Railroad
officials and representatives of the
trainmen's brotherhood appeared in
force today at the Senate interstate
Commerce committee hearing on
President Wilson's legislative program
to prevent a railroad strike.
Elisha Lee, chairman of the mana
gers' committee, headed the delegation
of railroad officials which Included
President Underwood, of the Erie:
President Willard, of the Baltimore
and Ohio; Samuel Rea, president of
the Pennsylvania; Fairfax Harrison,
president of the Southern, and R. s.
Lovett, chairman of board of tho Un
ion Pacific,
Representing the men were A. B.
Garretson, W. G. Lee, W. S. Stone
and WJ S. Carter, the four Brother
hood heads.
Officials of the American Federa
tion of Labor beaded by President
Gompers, Assistant Attorney General
Todd and D. E. Clark, of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, also were
present,
At the outset of the hearing Senator
Newlands, chairman of the commit
tee, announced his purpose and said
none of the proposed legislation In
cluded compulsory arbitration. "It
simply provides," he said, "in case o(
failure of voluntary mediation and ar
bitration for a government Inquiry
and the story of the action of all the
parties to the controversy until inves
tigation and reports could be made
leaving them free thereafter to act as
they might be .advised."
The Brotherhood representatives
were heard l-.rst. At the request of
Mr. Garretson It was agreed that the
Brotherhood leaders Bnould address
the committee two hours in opening
and an hour In closing.
Between those two periods repre
sentatives of the employers and ship
pers have six hours. He announced
that besides heads of the Brotherhoods
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Libor, also
would speak.
Mr. Garretson then began with a
general review of the conditions which
led to the present situation.
It was the belief of labor organiza
tions he said, that differences between
employers and employees should not
be settled by legislation but rather be
tween themselves. "The success of
any labor organization lies to an ex
tent in Its militancy." he said. "We
are In a grip of a power greater than
we are and It Is unfortunate that the
situation has arisen but I believe if a
settlement can be effected by Congress
even though we are opposed to legis
lative settlement we are willing to
waive the age old" tradition against
It. Such a settlement in this contro
versy -111 be desirable in the circum
stances."
"As an ethical proposition," he said,
"there is no more reason - hy a man
should be worked more than eight
hours than there is that he should be
worked 24. In the application of the
principle a difficult situation arises.
"Today," he said, "thousands of men
throughout the country are working
from 12 to 16 hours of which thero Is
no complete record." "We believe,"
said Mr. Garretson, "that questions
affecting society take precedence over
economics. We believe the human
element should be considered regard
less of Its effect on dividends.
To postpone the strike after the men
had voted for it, Garretson said would
mean disintegration of the Brother
hood and "turning over to the mob of
the trains as in 1877 and 1894."
Mr. Garretson added that he wanted
to assure the Senators that the Broth
erhoods were not opposed to arbitra
tion. "Under ordinary processes of
our policy," said Garretson, "we would
be out of accord with all of the five
propositions made by the President,
but In the hope of effecting a settle
ment we are willing to waive many
deeply rooted principles and we are
willing to aid In the passage of a lac
lslatlve remedy that will mak* It go*
Bible to recall the order to strike Sep
tember 4. The eight-hour law accom
panied by a provision to Insure tha
ten hours' pay pending Inquiry, and 1
suggest a provision that the govern
ment should bring suit In casesa road
refuses to grant the pay as; Is p'forld
ed in the hours of service law? would
satisfy us In this emergency. ?
"As for compulsory arbitration,"
paid Qarretson, "no Influence that ever
can be brought to bear can tnduca ou! '
organization to accept it. I want to
go on record here as protesting against^
anything that savors of making men
stay at work during any lnveatigattmjln
Senator Newlands Interrupted Mr.
Garretson to say It was his understand
ing Ilia! the proposed bill would not
prevent any man from leaving his em
ployment during the inverfjom^B
Concerted action, he said, was what
it was designed to prevent
"Quito true," Mr. Garretaon aaid,
"but if only men individually threat
en to strike on the railroads we would
not be here now discussing this pro
posed legislation."
"The Brotherhood." Mr. Garretaon v
said, "would not oppose being drafted
to run trains as long aa it waa only
for military purposes."
Mr. Gompers who followed! Garret
son, said that the Federation support- >
ed the Brotherhoods and proteaWfta
.against compulsory arbitrat"
attacked government opera!
roads for military purposes, 001
ing It was inconsistent and5
bio In times of peace.
Senator Newlands denied;
tentlon that the legislation d<
right of a worker to quit Hla^fot
Newlands reltorated It meant only to
affect the right to quit In con^ertpS
Mr. Gompers said he believed he had
contributed aB much as anybody in
America to avoiding striked. "But,
gentlemen," he said, "there are thtnga
worse than strikes. We have got to
live when that strike Is over and Is
history, and then I ask you,;> will we
And upon the statute books a law that
pays men are criminals If they strike
In concert? Such a condltlon if'intol
erable. I trust this legislation will not
be enacted."
Senator Newlands asked Gompera'
to give the committeo the solution of
the problem. Mr. Gompers replied that
under the circumstances the em
ployees should be left free to strike
whenever they saw fit and not forced
to "unfold their arms" by law. The
question of bringing aoout peace norf,
he Insisted, should devolve upon the
railroad heads wno should be expect
ed to agree to som<s sort of a satisfac
tory settlement. "It Is more er?""
ho said, "that the liberties ol
ployees should be BafeL
that some suffering which Is certain
to follow a strike, be avoided."
W. G. Lee, head of tbe trainmen,
went Into detail of why men refused
to arbitrate the eight-hour day. "We
stand ready," he said, "to arbitrate all
other issues and as soon aa|B' Presi
dent's eight-hour day proposal la en
acted Into law."
Mr. Lovett was heard flrit to pre
sent the side of the railroad!. Mr.
Lovett said that if the public were not
Involved In the present controversy
and It there were not thousands of rail
road employees not allied with the
trainmen, the parties lnvolvi
be allowed to settle the mat
selves. "If this burden of
000 a year Is put on tbe public because
of this legislation now proposed,
responsibility will De on CongreiS,jgM
on the railroads," lie continued. "We
have done our utmost to settle thla
dispute except to surrender what '
think a vital principle. If thla,
mand is successful, If they can u
duress force out this |60,uu0,000,
gress will be called uponltdMH^
jrovldlng for over time and
burden of *40.000,000 In turn
paaaed on to the pul"
/
4
