L IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1910.
NUMBER 9.
the Influence of the Administration and Pre
liminary Work of Congress Accomplishes
Little Towards Preventing- National Catas
trophePresident Will Appeal Publicly to
Men as Last Resort Both Sides Continue
Plans for a Fight to the Finish.
Ihlngton, Aug. 30. All the Infill- cease to operate or be seriously Intorrupt
f the administration wns brought' od because nf a strike, to direr! operation
ir to-nay in nn Hurt to persuade of
lillroad brotherhoods' lenders to J
or postpone the ruder calling ul
-wld strike Mnndnv. while load- I
Congress hi Kan paving the way
Igtslatlon drsignel to prevent or
khe tlirenteneil industrial oatns-
Llttlc tangible progress was
Itn either direction, luit In olllcial
Irs to-night there still prevailed
nee that the walkout would ho
Id
the spokesmen of President Wil
lie approached them, all the
rrhood ofllclnls gave the same
that tho had no power to recall
nke ( ri. y nnd that only one thine
satl fict.iy settlement" could
Ihrlr men at work after 7:00 a. m.
day 1'urtlnr piessure will he
lit to hi ai, ml as a last resort
Iresldrnt I" c. .nsldoring a public
1 to thr men themselves to liave
hlcr ir.i tided
larontlv thf ligislntlon which Is
Icoun'i d upon to stay the brother-
Is that part of the President's
lim wh'ih would fix an olghl-hour
r railr nd employes engaged in
I inpr tr;i'tis in Inteistate eoin-
and pr.vlde for an investigation
I effect by a commission or boa id.
Imbndics the principal features of
resident's original plan, accepted
trainmen, and W. O. Leo, head I
trainmen, said to-night that Its
i
,
Inent with a guarantee of tho
I,, ,im.. ..t.i .... 'l
11. inti- .11 Ullll. I'.i.v lUUHI IH) II"
1 by the brotherhood leaders as!
Itlsfactory settlement." Immedl-
upon Its becoming a law, he said. n"
otherlmod lenders would send out "'" 01 e President s program which freight and livestock, except such shin
de mes-age notifying general i ,llP" wl11 combat, for the present, to the mpnts ,...,.. ...,,,,..,.. .hl ,,.
loon that the strike order should !
I. Into effect.
n some of the congressional lend-'
ho oppose other featiues of the :
am say
such
law could be'
1
linioss COXSIDIUtS kituatiox.
Senate virtually sidetracked the
tency bill for nn nil-day debate
crisis, while the Interctnte cmn-
commlttee arranged for hearings
hilng at nine o'clock to-morrow
Inc. when ronrniihititMu ..r
will be heard. Three hours will I
Iven to each side, and then tbe
Into shape for presentation to the
Saturday.
dnmlnant thought In the minds
Imbers of Congress generally h-'
in the introduction late in the I
f a lesolution by Senator Main
If Maryland, calling upon ofllcluls
rallioad broth, i hoods to post- I
execution nf the strike older fori
i-ock to givo Congiess sulllrlent !
Ifor Intelligent consideration of
message Thr .,-olution was re-
lo the Intestate commeice com-i
without discussion I
Inlon In the Si nate after the gen- '
Behate I'oneentiated on the urgent'
slty for (inirgency action lirst.
un.j r,... . i I .
-.,,.-. ..i j, .'i iiiiwirilL ii-gisiaiion lo ,
I,, .,1,1, , , , , , . , liii, iiiuirip ill 11 l 111'?, iL Ul I' III i;iiHU
nsldtrrd thoroughly after danger n ,,,.,.,., -i .i i.
In immediate tie-up had been
II ihls sentlmniil was forcibly!
Iised on the door and echoed
In
,,,.r
Irences of House lenders.
I'ltOPOSFD LLfHSLATlON.
Interstate commerce committee
hsed the proposed legislation Into
li day, but postponed notion until
to-morrow's henrlngs. In the
time word camo from the House
that Itepresentative Adamson.
Inan nf the commerce committee,
Majority lender Kltchln had con-
that the eight-hour dnv lnw
be passed through tho House.
itative drafts of measures sub
d to the Senate committee and
iiinlcated to all parties to the con
rsy during tho day, Include the
vlng provisions to be attached to
Idlng bill which would enlarge the
state commorco commission
nbllshment of eight hours as the i
ard for a day's work for railroad I
.yes operating trains in Interstate I
erce aim me appointment by tho
dent of a wage commission of
.
members to observe the ndmlnls. i
l.n and tlnancinl effects of the ln-
llon of tho eight-hour day, the
Ident to submit Its reenmmenda-
to the Interstate commerce com-
Ion which would accept the llnd-'e,i
..,' ... ..... ....r, linn nu
ates to Insure a fair return on in-
Id capital; wages of employes not
reduced, for a period determined,
the present standard day's wago
Ing tho report and prorata propor-
Ito be paid for service In excess of
hours; tho commission nlso to
Hid report on tho problem of
lensatlon for railroad employes
I'lidinent of existing arbltiutlon law
I Ing the board of mediation nnd con
on, if unablo to Induce parties to
lt controveisles to arbitration, to
Idlfff renees to a board for Investlga-
lending decision of which It would bo
fill for einloyers to cause n lockout
Mployes to causo a strike; each party
1 controversy to namn ono member of
l.onrd of Investigation which would
Ht of thrco members
l.owering tho President, whenever
lays engaged In Intcrstnto commerce
t
railroads sufllcicnt for mllltnrv nr-
poses; to ilraft Into federal service all pcr-
sons necessary and to use Die military
forces of the nation.
Late in the day Majority Leader KJtchln
nnd Representative Adanison conferred.
They studied the tentative proposals be
fore the Senate Interslate commerce com
miltee and agreed between themselvs that
the only measure that could ho put
through the House at this time would lie
the eight-hour day bill providing for a
wage commission. They propose to make
the law effective November 1. 1'nlcs the
Senate has acted hy Friday afternoon.
their plan is to bring the measure into
the House, and have It passed under a
special rule. j
llOTIf StDLS l'UV pnu rtcuT
The railway presidents and the man
agers' conference committee were In
x.-p.ir.uc session practically all dav.
The managers discussed possibilities of I
the strike and what their roads might
be able to do If it came. They decided
to-night that Kllsha Lee, chairman of
the committee, and a few others shall
remain here for several days, the rest
to bo home at once. Mr. l.ee probably
will he the chief spokesman at the
Senate hearing to-morrow.
The ffeling anions' the presidents to
night had not changed. "It's all up to
Congress and the people now," said one
executive to-night. "Thero is nothing
we can do."
' "n "roin.-i noon neaus spent many
to-riay planning a vigorous fight
the eompulsory investigation f.-ut-
exclusion of everything else in it.
-N'""n of the brotherhood heads ,
w""ld "'on admit that they hud been
appealed to by administration off iclals .
PM'one me striKe. '1 ney rnlleU '
" """'"h miirn-.i mill
regarding their view of the President's
program. In tin- afternoon they con
ferred with Samuel Clampers, president
of the American Federation of l.alinr,
at his office. They declined to discuss
their conference with Mr. tlompers, but
it was learned that ho showed no dls-
'lot"ll"n lo K 'm'Hmizo witn tne mov.
mo"t Ior iTinging anout a postpone
nielli or tile striKe
BID BOYS FAREWELL
Monfpcllor CltlrriM Ilcnp nopiirtlim'
Cunrdxmcii wlllt pilc. 'raekiTs, I complete any necessary Journeys" be
Iliiiiglunils, iiml Tolineeo. i fore 7 a m. September t, the hour set
for the strike.
I Appioimately eight millions of peo
Mnntpeller, Aug. 30. A sizealde pie In this city and vicinity faced to-
n,lml,P'' of townspeople maile the trip I
,, i".s a.
, hf mil nir (nun iiii-niiii'i ,i ill liiu ii i
mont National Ouard fiodspeed on their
jniiiuey iioni me ninm camp in oi-.
Chester to Hagle Pass. Texas. The dele. , ,
gallon carried along in a motor truer
,. .. . ...,!.. ..f .. .. v. i ,.r i.
enough tobacco to keep most of the
bovs Sllinillcd until tbev reneb tbe hor-
The local boys in the second delega
tion to be sent to Texas are: Kdward
Parlzo, Fred .1. Cetchell, George A.
l.awson, Wlllliint Johnson, J. Y. Ken
worthy, Lester D. Morecroft, Herbert
I.. Crapn, 1'iancis Miller, Donald C. Fel
lows, Harold Howes and liny Pnrrott
and Jack McHugo and Michael Cero
soll of Harre. The last four named
aro members of the machine gun com
pany. WATCH FAIR MOTORISTS.
Officer Henry Finds II any Violation
nt AiIdlMui 1'nlr,
Middlcbiiry, Aug. 30. Officer P. J.
llmnrv nf Hiifllrtf.nn u emit Viofa trt-
.b.v for iiw, e,.nn,i tir,,r. k.. Krrnt,m-
of State r.uv v. Unllev to i,,Unect noto.
mobiles at the fair. Ho found auto-
mobile. .m,r,n, ., i,.r it ...,,i
...... ........... ...i .. ..n..
inun'i lain iiiiiiul l.lu.r Ijei'llBt-r., iu.tv
m ,10I. Cet .of the machines at tho
fair volatlng tho laws of tho State,
lie nn lil. Ho estimated that thcio woto
1,000 cars In tho vlllago to-day. Thoro
were no accidents of any kind report-
.!..,,, r.,, ...
Hwaiinlng with them.
BANKRUPTCY PETITION.
Ilnmii ,v lloliy Hum- l.liiblllllrri of :t,.
i:i:i. in miii Axhi ik or ini'.iwo.i i,
nutlund, Aijg. 30, Drown & Itoby of
nurllngton to-day tiled a petition in
bankruptcy with Cleik F. S. Piatt of
the United States coutt, Tho liabili
ties are J3,133.4r. and tho aHsets total
$a,B20,4l. Porley T. Itoby has personal
liabilities of $1,190.50 and assets of
$1,700, with $350 claimed exempt. The
other partner, Ferris I,. Urown, does
not enter into tho bankruptcy. Tho
llrm's largest Voimont creditors aro;
City of llurlliiKton, $3fi6; Kpeur r.rns..
$5G; Alice J, Seott, $125. sitepard Jv.
Morse, $33; Manson Hardware Co.. $(.
Jiiese aro an or HurliiiBton. fluy l
iiorion is utiorncy
for tbe nllnf-,.,1
EW YORK CITY IN
Ul
EGAUSEQFSTRIKE
Millions of Persons May Be
Thrown Out of Work at Once
City Has Three Weeks'
Food Supply.
.Vow Vork, Aug. 30. Roprcscntati vos
of Xow York city and Its varied Indus
tries wore making feverish efforts to.
night to prevent a complete paralysis
of traffic In the event of the threaten
ed nation-wide railroad strike. Millions
of persons, It was estimated, may be
thrown nut of work almost Immediately
lf ""' Bt,'"ff' becomes a reality,
Ihnbargoos declared by the various
raiiioaus already are having a serious
effect upon commerce. It was said.
One of the most serious problems the
steamship lines aie facing Is a possi-
l.i,. .i,n. ne i. !,,... i
w,.,,,. ,.. ,,pn ,.,.',,,,
many of the torminals heic sufficient car-
go to load ships now In port, vessels on
their way will face an immediate shortage
of cargo.
Theie were continued announcements ot
f i eight embargoes by the railroad. What
was regarded as tine of the most far
reaching of these orders was that Issued
by the New Vork Central which said;
In view of the threatened national
strike of employes in freglit train nnd
, yard sen-Ice, the New York Central rati
i road Is obliged to Issue tho followlns
order:
"First-Effective midnight Thu-sdnv
August 31, embargo all nerhnbi-
torv west or cnt nf vi-...,,.,
r ciearllelrl Thl env-.-. ' i . ...
connecting lino traffic. This menna'that
no s,lpmonts as above described r.
should
i, ..,.,, fnr ,,,,.,, ,
rilRt nf ....f.-i
Clearfield to a point
west thereof, or vice versa.
"Second Krfectlvo midnight Fiiday,
September 1, embargo all freight
oilglnallng on our linos or coming front
connections:, regardless of destination,
except anthracite and bituminous coal
and linn in p.
"Tliliil-nifectlve midnight Patunlav.
Peptembci embargo all freight orlglnat-
Ing at points on our own lines or comlnn
I from comifi ting lines, regardless if its
deMlnaiH ii Milk train tiafflc is exempted
from the above."
i The lielawaie, Lackawanna and
Western i.ulroad Issued a warning to
travelers "to make ariangements to
night complex pinblems brought up for
......... n.t. use oi tl,e tlueatencd na-
I. . 1 1 o - 1 1 J . ranroai strll;e
State and municipal authorities were
niisy on plans to avert suffering
UKh p,,SH,1(. Iiu,. ,lf foodstuffs and
" piai teis optimistic statemeuls
weie made that the metropolis, includ
ing the densely populated New Jeisey
cities which aie New York's neighbors,
would not be stricken by famine.
Steamships, automobiles nnd farm
trucks, together uith such railroad trains
as could be operated under strlko condl
tious, would supply the einlit million with
food, under plans ready to be put Into
erfect If the railroads ceaso to operate
normally, according to John J. Dillon,
commissioner of the stato department of
foods and markets.
Tho police estimate after a survey of
tho fond situation is that New York has a
three weeks' supply of food on hand.
Continued milk supply for the babies,
anil for Infantile paralysis sufferers, ap
pealed to be causing the chief concern to.
night In the minds of city officials, An
appeal was sent dunni; the day to the
biotherbood chiefs In Washington that
tho operation of tho milk trains not bo
discontinued.
New York State Is declared to occupy
an uridine and advantageous position
among the States This Is owing to the
militia laws en.iete.I ,y t,e last I.egls
lnture, tinder which, some authorities
said the Governor could dtclaro all
cmcrgono to exist nnd call Into active
service all railroad officials and em
plnyes within 'he State and direct that
they operate intra -stato railway traf
fic. Itnilmad officials said to-.biy that
tho rush homeward of thousands of
tourists Is almost without precedent,
complleateil by a similar efflux of peo
ples from the city It was computed
that more than 100,000 poisons have
passed through the grand central ter
minal alone, during the past week.
REV. WM. J. SEARURY
DIES AT EAST HAMPTON
I'lilhcr nt Ne.v York CaiiilliliKi- for iov
i riinr, I'roinliii'iil t'lerKj mail.
Knst Hampton, N. y Aug. 311. -The
Itev. William Jones Reabiiry, 1). r
father of Samuel Senbury, denioratlo
candidate for governor, died here to
day. Ilo was 7I years old. Ho was one
of the prominent cloigyinen of tho llpls
copal Church nnd nn nutliorlty on church
-niOU fiPTIlMTV
rocn on nu v
OF COUNTRY GATHER
TO OPPOSE 11 STRIKE
Transportation Men Do Not
Share Feeling at Washington
That Catastrophe May Yet Re
Averted. .
DEFY THE BROTHERHOODS
Railroads Will Endeavor to Keep
at Least One Passenger Train
on Each Run Practically All
Roads Declare Embargo on
Perishable Freight.
Chicago, Aug. 30. Throughout the
entire country to-day the tallroads,
great and small, gathered their forces
to opposo the strike, set for next Mon
day. Tho undercurrent of feeling report
ed at Washington that tho catastrophe
would yet be averted was not reflected
here among railroad men. A summary
of the situation made by 13. P. Ttlplpy,
president of the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe. who was n member of tho
committee, which conferred with
President Wilson, as spokesman for
railroad presidents, who returned this
afternoon from the conforences at the
National Capitol, Intonslficd tho pes
simism felt hero.
Mr. Illpley asserted that tho railroads
can now see no hope of a settlement
before Labor day, and aro making
every preparation for eventualities.
Practically every Important railroad
In the country gave notice of embar
goes, or ias preparing to give them.
They affect porlshable freight and
livestock, which at present constitute
about one-third the freight traffic on
most western roads, and passengers.
Agents everywhere were instructed to
warn passengers of probable delays
and not to accept any perishable freight
which could not normally be delivered
before September 4. In tome cases the
date was set for Saturday, tho 2nd, or
Sunday.
Mr. Illpley gave three statements.
The first was Issued formally as the
expression of the party which returned
from Washington; the second was ad
dressed to employes of the Santa Fe
and warned those who might obey the
strike order that they would lose all
rights of seniority and of benefits from
Insurance and pension funds. The
third was Mr. Ttlpley's plan for meet
ing the strike, and an analysis of the
railroads' side of the controversy.
The three constltue an artillery blast
of defiance to the brotherhoods, to
whoso "unreasonable arrogance" ho
attributed the situation.
There wns some difference, of opin
ion, ho said, In his Individual state
ment, among the offlelnls when they
first arrived at Washington as to what
course to pursue, but they became ab
solutely unanimous when requested to
abandon arbitration. They were for It,
he said.
On the Important subject of what
tho roads purpose to do ho said that
attempts would be made to keep at
least one passenger train on each run.
and that preference would next be
given perishable freight.
Ilo expressed the oplnnn that the
public would be surprised nt tho num
ber of men who would remain loyal
to their employers.
Legislation proposed by President
Wilson, he said, "seems not only ob
viously reasonable. but obviously
necessary."
"The managements of the railroads,"
he stated, "w 111 proceed upon the as
sumption thru tho strike will come on
labor day and will prepare to act ac
cordingly." To this end the presidents will meet
at tho Chicago club to-morrow to lay
their plans.
Associated Presi despatches from all
parts of the country to-day reflected
the shock felt by every line of industry
at the prospect of tho strike. Interur
ban lines, it was said, would uso every
available car, but he greatest exten
sion of their facilities It was realized
would go but a little way toward re
lieving congestion. Motor trucks were
hopefully icferred to in stories from
many cities, but bere too was tho
knowledge that this service Is not cap
able of any great expansion. The Stan
dard Oil company It wns learned has
concentrated unusually largo supplies
of gasoline at Its dopots.
Developments of the day Included
the Issuance of an injunction at
Omaha, on petition of a Union Pacific
conductor, restraining the Order of
Hallway Conductors from calllnc a
strike on that road.
The most severe embargo of the day
was ordered by the Pennsylvania road,
and caused a break of an extreme tour
nnd one-fourtb cents In the pile, f
wheal on the bnnid of trade. The em
bargo affects explosives beginning to
moriow. perishable fielglit beginning
Friday and all oilier freight beginning
Satin day. This Inciiines wheat, which
recently has been pui chased In onoi
111011s ouatitltles 'or expoi t to Huiope.
Mr, Itlpley would not undertake to
say exactly what would be the attitude
of the railway executives toward the
legislative progi am which Piosldent
Wilson pi on-Hied '-"tigress yestoi
dny to avert tin- strike.
One tlioiisniid Chinese laborers ar
rived at Lyon-- l-'ninee, Monday, con
stituting Hist ''ltlngont of Chinese
brought to iniu'i lor work In muni
tions factorlef.
Deslro to bo Urlef often mars a classl
fled ad N'ever sacrifice clearness and
ADDISON COUNTY
MIDDLEBURY.
Michael Hnlpln. aged 74, dlod at his
homo east of this place Saturday eve
ning. Ho was born In Ireland and
camo to this country when a young
boy. Ho Is survived by Ills wife;
three daughters, Margaret Hnlpln and
Mrs. Wntson of Bridgeport, Conn., nnd
Nellie Hnlpln nf this place; four sons,
Thomas of Woicestor. Mass., Frank of
Leicester. Mass.. Charles of ISrldgo- j Mrs oerlnulo Connelly, and the lat
port. Conn., and John of Mlddlobury, tor.n pori) jjenry. she will make her
nnd thrco brothers. Tho funeral was;nomo Mrs. Connelly has heen In nur
held Tnesdnv morning at nine Ungton for several weeks. W. C. Dun
o'clock nt St. Mary's Catholic Church nm jms moved' his electric business
of which the deceased was a member.
Ho was also 11 membor of tho Holy
Nnmo society. Prompt action by Carl
liarton prevented a serious blazo Sat
urday when ho wns delivering gaso
line for tho Standard Oil company at
the Stokes garngc. Some, waste caught
fire near tho vent and as the tnnk,
which holds 550 gallons, wns near ly
full, the danger was considerable. Mr.
liarton grabbed one of tho extinguish
ers alwnys on the wagon, and suc
ccedlnd in extinguishing tho flro.
Harry Fradette, an employo of
Charles A. Lyman, while at work at
the Ice-hotiso Saturday met with a
painful accident. He was In tho top
of the wagon washing some ice and
was about to Jump down. In so doing 1- n. Parker of ergennes has been
he cniight the third linger on his right I appointed operator nt the local pas
hand, dislocnteil two Joints, nnd broke senger station, taking the plnce of A.
the finger. It wns nearly severed from ! A. Durrivage, who has been transferred
his hand. He was taken In nn autnmo-I t Mooers Junction, N. Y. Warren
bile by W. F. Pcnlley to the oHice of Holdrldge has returned to Hoston after
Dr. P. L. Dorey. Several stitches were 1 few days with his mother, Mrs. Wll
taken to replace the finger. John I hr I- Hamilton, and grandmother,
Coin, while at work hauling from the Mrs. H. K. Wnrren. Miss Kllzabeth
freight depot to the (I. W. Hose feed I
store on Mill street, was run Into Sat-I
WRECKED B! STORM
Some of the Missing Believed
Alive on Shore at San Do
mingo City Cause of
Wreck Not Explained.
Washington, Aug, 30. Reports to tho
navy department to-night said 33 en
listed men were missing, most of them ,
probably drowned, four were known to I
be dead, two officers and six men ser- .
lously Injured and 07 others hurt, as a f
result of the wrecking of the armored i
cruiser Memphis by a hurricane yes
terday In San Domingo city harbor. I
Most of tho missing were in a small
boat overturned by wind nnd waves
while returning to the Memphis, it
ls believed by the navy department
perhaps a dozen of these may yet bo
alive on shore.
The known dead are:
J. H, Townsend, fireman, (address
not given).
Oeorge W. Iludd. North Minneapolis.
A. H. Porter, water tender, (address
not given).
W. Copius, coal pasiei, Hempstead,
L. I.
The causo of tho wreck has not yet
been explained fully In messages from
Hear Admiral Pond, In command at
San Domingo, and an Investigation will
Im started by navy officers soon.
A message from Admiral Pond to
night said:
Sea smooth. Momphls solidly ashore, I
eiglit foot out of water. Working party on
board securing records and landing stores.
Crew (iiiartered In town Hospital facili
ties ample. From first Indication of trou
ble until ship struck less than one hour."
The scout cruiser Salem wns oiriereil
to San Domingo to-day to replace tho
wrecked vessel, which was Admiral
Pond's flagship. Tho transport Dixie,
33 MISSING FROM 15,000 GUARDSMEN
CRUISER MEMPHIS ORDERED TO HOMES
which has been ordered to proceed to tho j designated to return to their State
sceno to pick up the :ompl:ls' crew, will t mobilization camps from the border
touch at Koy West to-morrow to land "'"V tn,( Place within the next IS
Luis Cabrera of the Mexican commission. : hours. General Funston said to-night
nnd Spocial Agent Ilongers, who aro com- "ftor ll lm1 received the war depart
ing from Mexico City, ceforc beading for "lent's ordors.
San Domingo i 11 ls '"Mooted thnt tho movement
F.aiiy reports from Admiral Pond were northward will bo well under way by
taken by navy ofiictals to iiullcpte that the r!d!lJ' or Saturday,
htnrni was of such force thnt it created "
Memphis across a long stretch of shallow 1 GUARDS IV A N 8 BODY ARRIVES
water to her piesent resting place at tho
foot of the rocky bluff upon which ssn
Domingo stands. Wrecking companies
will be asked to studv tho vessel's plight
and determino whether she may be u.iveit
UNIVERSALIS!) ELECT
. Iv. llnlllHlrr nf llnrrr I'rrnlilciil nf
Male CnnM-iilIon Will Mr pi Next
Year In llnrrr.
thronged the station waited till Its ar-
St. .lohnsbiiry, Aug. 30. -The Kith MUiual I ,lval- fhaplnln John M. Thomas of
session of tho I'nlversalist convention of , .Mhldlohurj accompanied tho remains
Vei mont nnd the- Province, of Quebec 1 1'"'. '' "lo Privates Floyd II. Itlch
electe.l ollkcrs as follows this afternoon: ; nrds of Walnut street and George W.
liesldent, O. K. 1 lolllHter. Iiarie; vlco.
piosldent, George C, F. Felch, St. Johns
bury; secretaiy, the Itev. Georo F. For
tler, St. Albans; treasuier, S. K. Watson,
St. Albans, trustee for three yeais, S. C
lliecne, St. Albans; fellowship committee,
tho Itev. II. A Parkhurst, Spi Inglleld,
tho Ilov. J. II. Heat don, Ilarre, the Rev.
II. L. Cantleld, Woodstock, A. L. Only,
I'ethlebem, Vt., W. II Gladding, Run.
dolph, preacher of occasional sermons, the
Rev (iareiieo 1. Futon, St, Johnsbiiry j
The eoiivcntio-i will meet next year
In
Ilarre.
Spasmodic economics HopiotliiioH In
volvo llio sacrifice, of qualities, of alue,
In tho things bought To study tho ads
Is to know what to bry no well as what
urtlay by nn automobile owned by L. O.
Allen nnd driven by Mr. Harrows. Ho
was thrown from his wagon and qulto
badly bruised. Dr. S. S. Kddy, who
was called to caro for him. said thoro
wero no bones broken, but that tho
man was qulto badly shaken up.
Mrs. W. S. Huntley spent Sunday In
Hurllngton with Iter son Milton, who
Is at tho '.Mary Fletcher hospital.
Miss Helen M. r.urns and Thomas
Downing of nurllngton nnd Kdwnrd L.
Hackett of Hulland aro In town. Mrs.
Henry Morey will move this week to
, .,, ,,,., w)lnrn ...m, h ' ,,,,,,,,.
Und shop to the rooms In the upper
story of the P. H. P.yan block and
Collector Mllo K. Mooro will have his
business olllce In tho apartments vacat
ed by Mr. Duncan. Mr. and Mrs. Wil
liam A. narton of Prookllne, Mass., aro
visiting at the homo of Mrs. M. A.
Munroo of Seminary street. S. I!,
1 Hobbs has returned from P.uffnlo, N.
Y where ho hns been attending the
annual State convention of Odd Fel
lows of New York, which has been In
session In that city the past week.
A. Harton Hepburn and daughter Miss
Cordelia of New York city are at the
Addison for a few days. P. L. Hinks,
clerk nt the National bank of Middle
but y. Is tnklhg his annual vacation.
t
(Continued on prige bin,)
1
FROM THE BORDER
Thirteen Regiments from Eight
States Will Return to Mo
bilization Camps Ver
mont Troops Stay.
Washington, Aug, 30. Orders for the
return to their State mobilization camps
of 15,000 national guardsmen now on
the Mexican border were issued to
night by the war department. General
Funston was directed to return three
regiments from New York, two from
New Jersey, two Irom Illinois, two from
Missouri nnd one eacli from California,
Oregon. Washington and Louisiana,
1 Secretary Baker announced the order
: "f"'"" a conference with President Wil
son !lt tho White House
Larller In
the day the department had ordered
to their home stations .1,000 regular
: coast artillerymen who hnve been serv
j Ing as Infantry on the border.
The secietary in a statement to
i night said that In a few days If trans
; portation facilities remain undisturbed
'the department Intends to oidor homo
more regiments.
lleginiellt.s to be sent home were not
designated by number and it is under
stood that their selection is left lo
iteni-ral Funston.
The policy now Is to give all of the
State troops called Into tho ftdeial
I service opportunity to see service on
I war footing; alonr- the international
I line.
Withdrawal of General Pershlng's
I expedition in -Mexico, which Is expected
t to follow soon after the meeting: of the
Mexlcnn-Amerioan Joint commission nt
! Portsmouth, N H., probably will leail
to the early return homo cf all the
guardsmen.
San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 30. The
first movement of national guardsmen
Chnplnln Tlioiun Accompanies rie
miilns of Henry l.n.vtm. i'hniuci
Willi Hours nt Motion.
St. Albans. Aug. 30. The remains of
Private Henry Lawton of Co. B. V, N.
G., who died at tho post hospital at
Kagle Pass, Texas, last Saturday,
reached here this evening on train No.
3, due nt eight o'clock. Although It
was two hours' late, tho ciow.l that
I 1 'i ici oi naeouin, u., mi-mlura of
Co. H. who recently received Ibelv lls.
charges, Mr. Law-ton's father. John
Lawton, and brother, John, mot the.
body in lUiiiliigtou,
At the station were inenibors of the
three fraternal orders to which the do
ceased guardsmen belonged, tho Lagles,
Foresters and Masons and inemborii of
tho Stianalian club, also members o(
A. It. 1 1 ii i Hill t Post, No, 00, G. A. R.
The remains wero taken to tho fam
ily homo oin South Main street. Funoral
servlcoa will bo held to-morrow at St.
Luko's Chuioh at ;-;to o'clock In tho
afternoon, lollowing brief servlcen at
tho house. Dr. Thomas Is n ijucst at
tho homo of Limit, John T. dishing,
who recently icturned Loin Kagla
I'uuii,
BOIli TROOPS
CONTINUE ADVICE
ON ENEMY'S FRONT
Austrian Army Retires Before
the Invaders Roumania tc
Demand That Bulgars Evacu
ate Serbia.
BULGARIANS SEIZE DRAMA
Unofficial Sources Report Con
flict with Greek Troops
Weather Prevents Great Ac
tivity on Western Battle Front
Russian Army Quiet.
London, Aug. M.-rtoumnnla's Invnslnr
of Austro-llungarlan territory contli le
in the mountainous region f on
Petrozseny. on tho railway northra
of Orsovo. to the Gycrgyo mountains, 5C
miles north of Kronstadt.
On the Danube, from the Tron Gte to
Glurgevo, opposite Hustchuk, nuperln
there have been reciprocal bombardrren's
at several points by Austro-Hunga-ia
warcraft and Itoumnnlan shore batf ,
A Zeppelin and a hostile acroplan? ha
dropped bombs on tho Itoums a
canlt.il.
Austria's acknowledgment of the re
tirement of her forces In the n
tnlnous region to previously nv ire t
positions In the rear has been fo!'
by claims by rtoumanla that the t
of King Ferdinand have arrived .
point within three miles of Kron d
the chief commercial city of Transy1'
Vienna admits that tho lloamani.n -n
encaged with tho Austro-Hungarii.
the Oyergyo mountains, which
thnt off the northwestern front of 1
mania hostile forces have Ir nde
Transylvania to a distance of p r s
twenty-live miles. The Iioumanlat af
also near Koedzl-Vassarhely, about f rt
miles northeast of Kronstadt.
While Bulgaria thus far hns nr t ep
tered Into the hostilities against Rou
mania, a news agency despatch a
Roumania has decided to send an
niatum to nulgatia, demanding
evacuation of Serbia. A despatch
Constantinople reports that Turkt
declared war on Roumania.
In the Macedonian theatre
-ill
tt
ha
lent
fighting continues between the e .trn.e
allies and the Au?tro-German - ai 1
Bulgarians. Paris claims that i '
west of the Vardar river the In',
have additional ground and that n th
Lake Ostrovo region the Serbf ' i
repulsed attacks by the Bulg. .
On the Struma front near Lake 1 -a i
batteries of the entente power: i' ic -violently
shelled Bulgarian posl ns
Drama, in northeast Greece, ha i
seized by the Bulgarians after r '
with Greek troops, according to i "
clal advices received In Paris. i
banian detachment under Lssnd I'
once commander of Hie Tu.-kif
army, has arrlv.d nt Snlor..).!
the entento forces.
Nn oflleial move has yet beer'
by Greece lo meet the demand i 1
portion of her population in-iu.
former Premier Venlrt-los, that
Join tho entente allies, but an i
c-ial despatch from Athene sn
remoblllzatlon of tho Gfj-.-.c ai
under consideration.
-
-i'i
Lxcept for nn extension or th
V
lsh line' south of Mnvtinpulch n I e
Somme front In Franc, there ht. - 1 1
little activity except by artilb i
the part of nnv of th' holllptre-'- -i
the western battle line, wht
dement weather still prevails.
Likewise on the front In liner. r .v
Gallcla there have been no Imp
changes In positl'iris, although m tt
Carpathian region the Ilus-dsnf 1
captured Pank. r mountain, on the lln-i-garlan
border, nnd the vlllnt-e of P, i"a
lov, on the Bystrltza-Nadvorna .vr,
near the border.
In the fighting between Turks and
Russians In Asia Minor and on th Per
sion front both sides claim mlno- no
cesses. Iff. SUFFRAGETTES ELECT
Dr. Ornee SheriTood of M. Alhann Pres
idem MtH. II. (. tlrmnrd of Bur
lington ii Vlic.Prefldent.
St. Albans, Aug. 30 The ap-uial
mooting of the Vermont Lcjual Suffuse
association opened this nfterpoi n i.t
tho homo of Miss Kinllla llouchto-.i -. ,b
a representative attendant. Tat ;o
lowing ofilct-r-" were eli-.ri.od: Hon. tn-v
president, Mrs. Julia A Piotvn of 1.
ohestnr; president. Di. Gra-o Sheri d
of St. Albaur; vice-president, first in-
lerresslonal district. Mrs. 11. S How a r
of Burlington; vlce.;uvslde:i;, ond
congressional .llftrlc'., Mrs W L. '
lint of SprlnRllclrij treasurer, Mr i I a
Blanchard of Montpeller: recor
secretary. Miss Joanne. D. f'rol . !
Burlington; corresponding s--re
Miis Kmilia Houghton; auditor,
Francos P, Wyniaii of Manchester Ccn.
t.-r.
Dr. Shctw-cod an president w.u e nu
missioned to represent tho nssocln n
at ttn- national convention at Atlnrtli
City, N. J. Dr. Sherwood Is to ch- o
two other delegates. A reception v f
hold at Dr. Sherwood's Inijiie thl '.
ning. An important but-in-s.' res on
will bo held to-morrow Pioi-iiuj
TWO NORWEGIAN SH'PS Sl'NI.
Cbiistlanla, Non.ny. Aug. :". via 1 on
don.). Tho Norweslan Hteiimnlilp Isd
of 2,:'00 tons, formerly the l'y.-, hah bee.
mink llei (icw v.a.i mi veil.
RotterJ.im. Aug. u, via London - i
l.fiOO-ton Norwegian steamship Ren
has been sunk Nine ecu of Pio crow
iva in iua. wkUii.u ii lu.v ou a lui.ir
