.ti
prv
v*
ir
Thii Issue
16 Pages
I
T.I*' rjT*» 'y,,
1 5: No. 20.
KMC BEtC KILLED
IN IUIT0 ACCIDENT
Prominent Farmer and Machinery
Dealer Instantly Killed as Car
Leaves Steep Grade
Isaac Berg, one of the best knowri
farmers and machinery men of this
section of the state, met a horrible
death at the St. Carl Coulee bridge
three miles southeast of the city on
the valley road Friday evening about
6:30 o'clock when his new Case car
went over an embankment fourteen
feet to the coulee below.
The car went over the enibankment
and was found on its left side at the
east end of the bridge, the front of
the car being nearly under the end
of the bridge. Mr. Berg lay in the
water, which but a foot or two deep,
with his head and shoulders clear of
the water. The car was pressing on
the chest and the theory is that he
died from asphyxiation. Another the­
ory is that Mr. Berg suffered a stroke
of appoplexy or heart failure and that
he was unconscious when the car
went over the embankment. Mr. Berg
was regarded as a very careful driver
and had driven a car for years. Both
hands were on the steering wheel
when the body was discovered.
Ernest Stoudt, who is connected with
the Union National bank, was the first
on the scene. Being unable to remove
the body, he went to a nearby resi­
dence for help. In the meantime other
autos had come up and the machine
was pried up and the body removed.
A number of doctors rushed out to
the scene of the accident, but death
had been instantaneous and they were
powerless to do anything.
The body was brought to the city
and placed in an undertaking estab­
lishment.
The funeral was held from the Unit­
ed Lutheran church Sunday afternoon
at 3 o'clock. The services were con-
ducted by Rev. J. Lonne, the pastor,
and an old time friend of the deceased,
assisted by Rev. P. W. Erickson, pas­
tor of the Presbyterian church. The
services were very impressive. A large
•umber of the friends gathered to pay
their last respects to the man they
deeply loved. Interment was made in
Rose Hill cemetery.
Isaac Berg was born in Norway, on
March 18, 1855, and came to this coun­
try when a young man, settling in
Otter Tail county, Minn., where he
was engaged at the carpenter's trade.
He came to Ward county in 1903 and
filed on his homestead east of the city
which he continued to farm until last
year, when he disposed of it, invest
in a comfortable home in Minot.
During the past nine years he had
been connected with the Case company
as agent, handling a great deal of ma­
chinery. Marius Erickson, the man­
ager, said of Mr. Berg: "I have done
tartness with Mr. Berg for a good
many years and I have always found
his word as good tm his bond. No one
•utside of his family can feel the loss
•f
Mr. Berg more than Mr. Hanson,
the manager, or myself."
Mr. Berg's wife died four years ago.
There are six children, Karl, one of
the sons, is in the employ of the In­
ternational Harvester company in
South America. There are four other
sons, John, Willis, George and Hjel
mer, and one daughter, Miss Sofie,
who is employed by the Ward Fruit
eompany. The five children reside at
home. A brother, John Berg, resides
In Otter Tail county, Minnesota.
Mj^Berg was a quiet man who made
frie?MB everywhere. He was strictly
honest and very industrious. He was
a good Christian man. The members
of his family who have the sincere
sympathy of everyone, can get a good
deal of comfort out of the fact that
their father was one of the most high­
ly respected citizens of our communi­
ty and that his death leaves a void
that will be hard to fill.
DES LACS FARMER INVENTS
HANDY FORD ATTACHMENT
Wesley. White, a farmer living 3
miles south and one mile west of Des
Lacs, has invented an attachment for
his Ford car which we believe to be
one of the most unique contrivances
and at the same time one of the handi­
est, we have ever heard of. He took
a set of bull wheels from some dis­
carded binders and fastened them to
two timbers 4 by 6 ipches in size, at­
taching the other end of the timbers
to his Ford car, the rear axle of the
ear running in bearings seated in the
timbers. The rear wheels of the auto
being removed, sprocket wheels take
their place. From these sprocket
wheels a chain drive runs to the bull
wheels and thus the outfit is complete.
With this rig he plows on an average
•f seven acres per day, traveling at a
7
INDEPENDENT
speed of three miles per hour. He
can unhook from the plow and take
a load of grain to town, or hitch on a
drag and disc and "Lizzie" meanders
right along. The driver, seated at the
wheel with the top up, can enjoy all
the comforts of motoring, while in
the back seat his wife and children
may ride in safety. Mr. White says
that his children frequently go into
the fields with him and remain all day.
Mr. White called at the Independent
office Saturday and showed the editor
several photographs of this contriv­
ance and we must say that it looked
good to us. We must acknowledge
that he is a genius and while his in­
vention is a cumbersome affair, as of
needs it must be—fashioned as it is
from such material as could most eas­
ily be utilized, we believe this inven­
tion, with certain refinements, will in
time come into general use in farm­
ing communities, by those whose
No one saw the accident and exactly means will not premit an investment
how it happened will never be known, in a tractor. As explained to us by
Mr. Berg had been threshing at the Mr. White, it takes but a few minutes
Tillman Saugstad farm, six miles east to remove the attachment from the
of the city, that afternoon and he auto and replace the regular wheels,
started for Minot to get supplies. He thus giving the owner a double pur
was riding alone. Edward Nelson, pose car. The inventor is perfectly
who lives in the valley was perhaps willing to demonstrate this mechanical
the last man who ever saw Mr. Berg wonder to those who desire to investi­
tive. He saw him ride past1the Nel- gate its merits, and we suggest that
son corn field on the level stretch of interested parties call and see it work.
valley road which intersects the main
road at the bridge at right angles.
Mr. Nelson says that Mr. Berg was
driving fairly fast but he could not see
his car at the turn. Mr. Berg must
have slowed down as he came to the
turn for the car merely fell over and
did not shoot out as it would have
done had he been driving fast.
It draws two 14 inch plows with ease,
and handles an eight foot disc read­
ily. In one-half day recently, he disc­
ed 15 acres, using but four and one
half gallon of gasoline.
About one o'clock Mr. and Mrs. E.
E. Snyder were awakened by a noise,
but thought it was the old gentleman
moving around down stairs and cough­
ing. After a while Mr. Snyder got up,
went down stairs and looked into his
father's room. The old gentleman
was in bed and apparently asleep, so
he returned to his own room.
Along about three o'clock he was
awakened by some one pounding on
the wall and again went down stairs,
this time taking a light with him. He
found his father, with his face almost
battered to a pulp, sitting on the edge
of the bed and crying that he had
been robbed.
Mr. and Mrs. Snyder did what they
could for their aged parent and then
E. E. hurried into town and 'phoned
to Sheriff Rettinger at Rugbr. The
sheriff and Deputy Sheriff Wharton
went over at once, visited the scene
of the crime, and are now searching
the country for a man that worked at
Snyder's during harvest.
The robbers gained entrance to the
house by cutting a hole in the screen
door, reaching through the hole and
raising the hook that fastened it.
They were evidently familiar with the
premises as nothing in the other
rooms was disturbed except the shot­
gun and box of shells. They appar­
ently knew what they were after and
also knew just about where to get it.
Sixteen hundred dollars of the mon­
ey, together with some notes and pa­
pers, were in an old wallet that Mr.
Snyder put under his pillow before re­
tiring. The rest of the money and
the watch were in the pockets of his
clothes.
Mr. Snyder seemed to have a dis­
trust for banks, and it was common
knowledge throughout this section
that he always carried a considerable
amount of ready money on his person,
gether a surprise, the only wonder be­
ing expressed that the robbers didn't
get more.
WALTER A. SNOW RESIGNS POST
Fargo, N. D., Aug. 28.—Walter A.
Snow, general secretary of the North
Dakota Sunday School association,
who has made such a remarkable suc­
cess of the work in the state, today
announced his resignation to accept
the position of general secretary of
the West Virginia Sunday School as­
sociation. Mrs. Snow will become
elementary secretary in the West Vir­
ginia organization.
Since coming to this state in 1910
Mr. Snow has witnessed enrollment of
24,367, while a great many new schools
and county associations have been
formed. West Virginia offers a splen­
did field for Mr. Snow's organization
ability.
Mr. Snow was formerly pastor of
the Oak Park Congregational church
of Minneapolis, ana associate pastor
of the People's church, St. Paul.
1
»»r
HAS THE
R6B6ED Of $1665
G. W. Snyder, Aged 83 Years, Who
Distrusted Banks, Was Beaten In­
to Insensibility by Burglars.
At an early hour last Thursday
morning, burglars broke into the
house of E. E. Snyder, about a mile
southeast of Wolford, and after chok­
ing and beating his father, G. W.
Snyder, into insensibility, robbed him
of $1665 in cash and his watch. They
also took with them a shot gun and a
box of shells belonging to Mr. Snyder.
G. W. Snyder is eighty-three years
of age and quite deaf. He was sleep­
ing down stairs while Mr. and Mrs.
E. E. Snyder occupied a room on the
second floor. He did not hear the bur­
glars enter and the first he knew of
their presence was when one of them
grabbed him by the throat. He then
started to struggle, and the robber
pounded him on the head until he was
unconscious. He did not have a good
look at his assailant, as the room was
dark, but he is sure there were two
men in the room.
so news of the robbery was not alto- Mouse river valley, four miles above
iii I' "''l „i —f ii iti'n mn, ^Vt''
m:w
WELCOME FOR
AUTO TOURISTS
Town Criers Club Interested in Prop­
osition to Give Tourists Free Fuel,
Light and Good Camp Ground.
The Town Criers' Club of the city
held their first meeting of the fall
season Monday night when thirty sat
down to an enjoyable banquet at the
P. & L. Cafeteria. At the conclusion
of the repast, President DeNoon called
the meeting to order.
The main paper of the evening was
read by Atty. Ben Lesk, who gave a
comprehensive review of "Legal
Phases of Advertising." North Dako­
ta, and practically every other state
in the Union, has enacted stringent
laws pertaining to fraudulent adver­
tising and the attorney pointed out
what can be done in seeing that our
own statute is enforced. Members
participated in a lively round table
discussion
Editor McGahan of the Messenger
presented a plan for entertaining auto
tourists who pass thru the city, point­
ing to the plan adopted in Cody, Wy­
oming, where signs appear at the out-,
skirts of the city welcoming tourists,! pie of cows,
who are given free light, fuel, water
and a good camping ground. Tourists
spend fully $500 a day in Cody. Many
pass thru Minot enroute to Glacier
park and other points of interest in
the west. A committee consisting of
L. D. McGahan, E. A. Long and G. D.
Colcord was appointed to confer with
the park commission and see what
could be done towards getting a suit­
able camping place, and signs along
the roads leading to the city. A com­
mittee consisting of Messrs. Lesk,
Kauffman and Valker was appointed
to prepare the advertising matter for
such a scheme.
A special meeting of the club will
be held at the Association of Com­
merce rooms Sept. 4. The leading ad­
dress will be given by W. H. Wig
ham, editor of the Northwestern Ag­
riculturist. Geo. E. Valker will read
a paper on mail order advertising and
C. E. DeNoon will give an interesting
paper on advertising.
ship up to at least fifty
is doing some good work.
Oilier Valuable Lots for Sale Near
Normal School on Easy Pay­
ment Plan.
were invited to sit down to a most en­
joyable repast, prepared by Mrs.
Swanson and her twin daughters,
Mabel and May. The afternoon was
most pleasantly passed with boat
riding on the Mouse river and looking
over the farm and buildings, visiting
and enjoying several selections on the
piano by the ladies. Miss Granstad
was noticed taking snap shot pictures
not pi
of the happy party on several occas­
ions so a record of the event may be
kept for future reminiscense. At 7
o'clock, after another sumptous re­
past, the guests reluctantly bid their
entertainers good-bye and left for
their homes.
|l»)Wiiu|]M,!ii"»|i!iiJi
Minot, Ward County, North Dakota. Thursday, August 31, 1916.
niemDer-| jjj kUy
Strawberry Lake recently. Klimpel the new establishment.
was shot in the leg by the deputy sher-! Mr. Weinrebe believes there is room
iff from McLean county. A warrant in growing Minot for the third under
was issued for his arrest and he went taking establishment and he will un­
to Washburn and gave himself up to doubtedly get his share of the busi
the sheriff. ness.
WELL-BIRD CO.
PLAT NEW ADDITION
The Blaisdell-Bird Co. are adver-
the Blaisdel-Bird addition to the city
of Minot, located in the northwestern tion to their wholesale grocery house
part of the city, not far from the Mi- which will front on Belyea avenue,
not Normal school. The building will be of brick and will
These lots have been priced right take the place of the sheet iron build
and they ought to go like hot cakes, ing now on the site.
They can be bought either for cash or I
on the monthly payment plan, $5 down WESTERN IMPROVEMENT
and $5 per month. This will make it
possible for most everyone to ulti­
mately own his own home. No inter­
est and no taxes are to be charged.
This is choice, level fertile land and
any of these lots can be made a fine company of this city is rapidly forging
home. The company offers to refund tp the front as one of the leading m
railway fare to anyone in Ward coun- dustrial plants of the tity. Elevators
ty who buys a lot and if one cannot nave recently heen completed at
visit the city and pick out the lot him-! Omemee, Mohall, Carson, Odessa,
self, the company will do so for him. I Hebron and Zahl, and the finishing
The Blaisdell-Bird company have an touches are being added to an immense
excellent reputation and they can be elevator and flour Mill at Glasgow,
depended upon to do just as they Mont. The mammoth elevator which
agree. The lots will go quickly, so if the Farmers Co-oporative Elevator
you want one, don't wait too long. company are erecting in this city is
being built by this firm. The greater
A Pleasant Party portion of their work this season has
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Swanson last, been in the provinces of western Can
Sunday entertained in royal style a
large party of their friends from Saw- safe to say that the buildings erected
yer at their beautiful home in the by this firm during the present year
JIIII.II I"'
CIRCULATION OF ANY WEEKLY PAPER IN THE STATE
Mr. Swanson formerly owned a 400
acre farm near Sawder but, in 1910
sold out and moved with his family to
Oregon on account of his health, after
regaining which he was again anxious
to return to Ward county, and so af­
ter twenty months in Oregon he (Jarae
back and purchased the Kelly farm of
880 acres four miles above Burlington
to which he has since added 40 acres,
making him a farm of 920 acres lying
along the -valley of the Mouse river.
He has 300 acres under cultivation
and a very fair crop of grain, even in
spite of black rust, which is playing
havoc with grain crops in many fields.
Mr. Swanson stated that he found it
almost impossible to procure hired
men of any account to help harvest
and hay so he decided to get along
without them, as he had been forced
to do in an early day, the consequence
is that he, together with his wife, fif­
teen year old son, Arthur, and twin
daughters, Mabel and May, twelve
years old, have taken care of all the
crop, stacked 200 tons of hay, besides
looking after 23 horses, 59 head of
cattle and 19 hogs. The family is well
and happy and have discovered that
they are entirely independent of I. W.
W.'s. Besides all this, Mr. Swanson
has had a $2000 barn erected this
summer whiclv is almost completed.
All this speaks well of Mr. Swanson's
industry and ability as a farmer, for
in 1901, when he. first settled near
Sawyer, he owned little more than a
team, a few farming tools and a cou-
J. H. Weinrebe Rented New Roell
Block and Now in East Buying
Stock—To Open About Oct. 1
J. H. Weinrebe, who is engaged in
the furniture business in this city, has
leased the new Roell block, main floor
and basement, and about Oct. 1 will
install one of the finest undertaking
establishments in the state.
Mr. Weinrebe is now in the east
selecting his stock which will include
ja"d
bC5t in
a m0(
j.jje
-skete-Hc
ern
fone
0
automobile hearse,
fi,nest jn.
KLIMPEL GAVE HIMSELF UP Weinrebe and assist in selecting
L. J. Palda, Jr., went to Washburn the stock. Mr. Goebel, who is a li
Saturday to defend Mr. Klimpel of censed embalmer, with years of ex
Sawyer, who figured in the row at Penence
W
est.
E. J. Goebel is planning on joining
Wlll
have, complete charge of
STONE-ORDEAN-WELLS
COMPANY WILL BUILD
Large Addition to
wiHapproximate
Burlington. The party, consisting of
three automobile loads, was made up DISCHARGED GUARDS RIDE
as follows: Mr. and Mrs. Ben Gran
stad and daughter, Miss Clara Mr.
and Mrs. J. J. Johnson and four chil-
3™,. charged from the state guard at the
dren, Mr. and Mrs. Leo Peterson and n/fp-vipan hnrrW. t.wn Williston on&rds
son Albert Mr. and Mrs. Olof Lokens-'
gard and daughter, Miss Mabel, all of SJSfoJJS Ind on top of coaches to reach
S a an W is of in
Soon after their arrival the guests
h??°e'
Erected at Once
Giving Wholesale House 15,000
Square Feet Additional Space.
The Stone-Ordean-Wells Co. is hav­
ing plans prepared for a large addi
CO BUILDS 34 ELEVATORS
With a record of 34 elevators, com­
pleted and several now in process of
erection, the Western Improvement
a(*a
and the state of Montana. It is
$500,000 in value.
"BLIND BAGGAGE" HOME
Williston, N. D., Aug. 29.—Dis-
the
£ove™ment
failing to
pro"
vide transportation.
Jailed three times as suspected de­
serters, was part of the exciting ex­
periences of the guardsmen.
Robert Barnfather and Leslie Grov
er are the militiamen.
ALLEGED WHITE SLAVER
BROUGHT BACK TO FARGO
The man La Fountain, who was ar­
rested in Minneapolis, charged with
white slavery, was brought back to
Fargo where his trial will be held. The
Sinot
ri he is alleged to have brought to
has not yet been located. It is
said she went to Havre, Mont., and of­
ficers are on her trail.
C. E. Colcord and Mrs. Baker of
Glenburn, Died on Tuesday
Although she had great love for
North Dakota she expressed the wish
that she might spend her last days at
her old home in Illinois, so a week ago
Monday she departed for Milledge­
ville, accompanied by three daughters
who had come to her bedside. She
stood the trip well and was thought
to be gaining slowly, but the fact that
she was living on borrowed time, as
she had often remarked, gave the
treacherous disease its opportunity.
The funeral will be held the latter
part of the week and the remains will
be interred beside those of her hus­
band, who preceded her to the bet­
ter land twenty-four years ago.
Her's was a remarkable life. She
was born near Massilon, Ohio, seven­
ty-three years ago last March and
when but a young girl accompanied
her father and step-mother to White­
side county, Illinois, which was then
in its virgin state. She reared a fam­
ily of ten children, all of whom are
living and happily married. She
leaves besides numerous grand chil­
dren and great grandchildren, three
sisters.
The children are: Mrs. Lewis Peugh,
Sterling, 111. Mrs. J. F. Fehrensen,
Los Angeles, Cal. Mrs. W. D. Deets,
Milled sreville, 111. E. S. Colcord, Col
eat, 111.: Mrs. G. A. Over and Mrs.
Frank W. Walzer, Sterling, 111. C. E.
Colcord and Mrs. B. F. Baker, Glen­
burn, N. D. G. D. Colcord, Minot. N.
D., and Mrs. Richard Douglas, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
She lived an unselfish life, shedding
rays of golden sunshine on the path­
way of others. She lived a pure, noble
Christian life and while she was
ready and willing to meet her Maker,
life was very sweet to her with all the
joys of being with her loved ones.
Dr. and Mrs. Devine Delightful En­
tertainers.
Dr. and Mrs. J. L. Devine enter­
tained at their cozy home in East­
wood Park Saturday night, their
guest of honor being Miss Helma
Mohr, of Minneapolis, who has been
spending the summer months at the
Devine home. The rooms were pret­
tily decorated with golden glow
Chrysanthemums, the decorative color
scheme throughout the rooms being
yellow. Cards and dancing formed
the principal amusements of the even­
ing. Mrs. H. M. Erenfeld and Dr.
Hartl were recipients of favors for
holding the high score at whist and
Miss Mohr received the guest favor.
A delightful supper was served at the
guest tables and during the supper
hour and at the dance following, mu­
sic was rendered by Prof. Groskopf
and Signor Pettruci. Among the en­
joyable musical numbers rendered
during the evening were solos by Miss
Mohr and Mr. McGuire and a duet by
Dr. and Mrs. Hartl. Dr. and Mrs.
Devine have established a reputation
for being the most delightful of enter­
tainers. The guests entertained with
Miss Mohr were Mr. and Mrs. J. F.
McGuire, Dr. and Mrs. F. J. Hartl,
Mr. A. M. Thompson, Mr. and Mrs. J.
E. Burke, Dr. and Mrs. Erenfeld, Mr.
and Mrs. W. G. Hutchins, Mr. and
Mrs. G. D. Colcord and Miss Virginia
Taylor, of Chicago, a niece of Mrs.
McGuire.
Auto Shot Stone Thru Plate Glass.
An auto passing the Minot Auto Co.
building ran over a round stone on the
pavement in such away that the stone
was shot out from under the wheel
just as though it had been shot out of
a gun. The stone passed thru a plate
glass window in the auto building,
cutting a clean, round hole. It could
easily have killed a pedestrian had he
been in the path.
Branch of Sherwood Muisc School Es­
tablished in Minot.
The Sherwood School of Music was
founded nearly twenty years ago by
William Sherwood, "America's great­
est pianist, and is said to have gradu­
ated more successful concert pianists
and teachers than any other school in
America. The Extension Department
of this school was established to "ex­
tend" the opportunity for metropoli­
tan conservatory training to music
students who find it inconvenient to
leave home to obtain it.
Altho most of the important uni­
versities have for years established
extension departments, the Sherwood
Music School is the first conservatory
of established reputation to take up
this line of work, following the lead
in this respect of such famous Euro-
S2I&
iiii
1
ii fiimi
iiii
•••." -v,'.v'
•$•
Subscription
Mother of G. D. Colcord of Minot and Chicago, it is usually the custom to
place some local teacher who seems
to be sufficiently qualified to meet the
standard required by the Chicago
school, in charge.
Deets, at Milledgeville, 111., Tuesday
at noon. A telegram conveying the
sad news was received that afternoon
and Mr. and Mrs. Colcord departed
over the Soo that night to attend the
funeral. Mrs. Colcord was well known
in this section of the state where she
had visited with her sons and daugh­
ters during the past three years and
prior to that time she had spent a
good share of her time in North Da­
kota. She became ill with heart trou
bue and dropsy following an attack of
pneumonia last winter and she de­
clined steadily until the end despite
the fact that loving hands adminis­
tered to her in every conceivable way.
RAY (Ml RUN
O 'ER BY CAR
J. E. O'Hara's Ford Seriously Injured
Son of E. J. Gobel on Valley
Street Sunday Evening
Ray, the 13-year-old son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Gobel, who reside on Valley
street, was run down by a Ford car
driven by J. E. O'Hara, the grain man,
about seven o'clock Sunday evening
"and seriously injured. Pneumonia has
set in and while physicians say they
believe the little man will pull thru,
his condition is still quite serious.
Ray had been playing with some
other boys in the street and was just
crossing the street, having gone for
a drink of water. He was watching
an auto coming into the city and did
not notice Mr. O'Hara's outgoing car.
Mr. O'Hara saw the lad only a second
before the auto struck him. The fen­
der struck the boy, knocking him to
the street face downwards and Mr.
O'Hara in a frantic effort to dodge the
boy, swerved his machine to one side,
the rear wheel passing across the back
just below the lower ribs. There was
such a pressure on the lungs that
pneumonia set in Tuesday.
Mr. O'Hara stopped his car and
placed the lad in it and took him. to a
local hospital. He was nearly pros­
trated over the accident and visited
the hospital a number of times dur­
ing the night to see if there was any­
thing he could do. The parents were
away from home when the accident
occurred but hurried to the hospital
and remained with the boy during the
night. The victim is putting up a
game fight and this will have much to
do with his recovery.
Riding with Mr. O'Hara at the time
was Mr. Finn, the only other occupant
of the car.
Hasn't Raised Wheat in Six Years
F. W. Bishop from near Benedict
was in the city Saturday. He came
here for the registered Guernsey bull
which he recently bought from J. E.
Elsberry. Mr. Bishop is milking 16
cows and he has been marketing three
8-gallon cans of cream three times a
week, the cans bringing him from
$7.25 to $7.85. Figure out the pro­
ceeds for yourself. He has not raised
wheat for six years, just feed for his
stock and he is making good money.
He recently installed an Empire milk­
ing machine wllich enables him to
milk the 16 cows in from 50 to 60
minutes. The milking machine leaves
the cows' udders in good shape. He
always strips the cows by hand to be
sure that ail of the milk has been se­
cured, but he says the machine does a
fine job just the same.
Dr. McCannePs Close Call
Dr. Archie McCannel met with an
auta accident three miles northeast of
the city one night last week that came
near being very jfaastrous. His car
struck a large hofe in the road where
a bridge had boq taken out, first
jumping over a rWt three feet across.
The doctor was running very slowly,
not more than 10 wiles an hour, hence
little damage was done. The car was
brought to a stop, after the front
wheels had gone down over the em­
bankment, throwing the occupants of
the rear seat to the front of the car.
This is a dangerous way to leave a
piece of public highway. The doctor
walked to the Linha farm, summoned
an auto and the following morning got
his car out, which fortunately was not
broken in the least.
New Electrical Shop for Minot
Charles Kopald. an electrical engi­
neer, has established a shop at 213 S.
Main street in this city and will also
maintain a branch shop at Berthold
for the sale of electrical supplies and
repair work. Mr. Kopald is an ex­
pert electrician, having been employed
for one and a half years by the gov­
ernment in that line of work on the
Isthmus of Panama, besides working
for the Edison Commonwealth Co.
•4..,
15
FIRST
SECTION
SM .50 Per Annum
pean schools as Trinity College, Lon­
don, England.
To carry out this plan the Extension
Department of the Sherwood school
establishes branches wherever the
musical interest is sufficient to war­
rant it. Instead of placing this work,
however, in charge of some of the
teachers taken from the faculty at
I After considerable investigation,
Mrs. Fianna V. Colcord, mother of Mrs. Riley has been made a member
G. D. Colcord, one of the publishers of of the faculty of the Extension De
the Independent, passed away at the! partment of the ^Chicago school ana
home of her daughter, Mrs. W. D.
has been elected director of the local
branch. This is indeed a great thing
for Minot and the northwestern part
of the state as it offers an opportun­
ity for those who wish to pursue a
complete course in music to secure
Teachers' Certificates and Diplomas
from an institution of national repu­
tation without the necessary incon­
venience and expense of leaving home.
The regular course given by the Con­
servatory has been put into printed
form and will be given under Mrs.
Riley's supervision and when com­
pleted will entitle the student to a
diploma from the Sherwood School
of Music of Chicago. The degree of
Bachelor of Music will be granted up­
on the completion of one year of post
graduate work taken at the Chicago
school after the above mentioned
course has been completed.
S
I
S
W
S|
if
giU
SSi
