®he
J
STRICTLY DEMOCRATIC ; ALWAYS CONSISTENT.
VOL. XXVII
NATCHITOCHES. LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1916
NO. 47
TO THE
CONSTITUTION OF LOUIS
IANA
Adopted at the Session of the
Legislature of 1916.
To I>e Voted On at the Congres
sional Election.
Act
House Hill Xn. 4. Jiv Mr Byrne
A JOINT RESOLUTION
Proponing an amendment to t!ie Consti
tution of the .State of Louisiana pro
viding for: The funding of »•< itain
debts of the City of New Orleans und
of the Board of Directors of the Pub
lic Schools. Palish of Orleans. re
spectively the issuance of serial bonds
I > said city, the purpose lor and tlie
n .- nner In w'liich same may be issued
and the duties and functions of the
lio.ird of Liquidation, City Debt, witn
reference thereto: and the levying by
the city of New Orleais and the
Board of School Directors, Parish of
Orleans, respectively, of certain taxes
for general municipal and school pur
poses; and providing for the submis
sion of said amendment to the elec
tors of the State for their approval
or rejection.
Be it enacted by the Genera! Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana, two-thirds
of all the me nbers elected t > each house
concurring, that mibject to toe ratifica
tion and approval of the electors of
the Stats, the Constitution of the State
be amended by incorporating therein
the following provision*, lo-wtt
Section 1. The City of New Orleans,
by a vote of three-fourths' >f alt the
members of the Board of Liquidation
City
eomttfJSfoiUc
Usa^ffrrrtr.g-nrttty'flf-sal ■
adopted by a vote sf two-thirè«. of ail
the members of said council or govern
ing body, shall have power and is here
by authorized to Issue Nine Million Dol
lars ift.000.000) of bonds, to be styled
"City of New Orleans Serial Gold
Bonds." and to bear sucft. rate of inter
est as the Board of Liquidation, City
Debt, may fix from time to time as each
Installment of said bonds Is offered for
sale as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. Three Million Dollars ($3,
000,000), In par value, of the bonds au
thorized by Section 1 of this amendment
shall forthwith be sold.
The proceeds of said three million
dollars of bonds shtfl he applied exclu
sively to the following purposes and In
the following order:
(a) The payment of the outstanding
and unpaid "School Teachers' Salary
Bonds oi the City of New Orleans," is
sued under Act No 2 of the General As
sembly of the State of Louisiana ror
the year 1908, which bonds shgll be
■ -for-■ga rm ent wtnH pat* ** ' sw» as
practicable:
fb) The payment of the»principal of
the floating indebtedness ' of the
Board of -Directors of the. Pub
lic Schools, Parish _ of Orleans,
evidenced - by note pr notes out
standing at the time of the adoption
of this amendment to-an amount no
exceeding Six Hundred and Fifty Thou
sand Dollafs ($«50,009) ^provided that
In the event that said Indebtedness or
any part thereof shall have been paid
by eald Board Out of its current rete
nues previous ;Cq the adoption of this
amendment the nmount,thd# paid .(not
to exceed $650.000,r ho«eever), shill be
paid over in cash to sjfld Board to be
used t v *t for School purposes, as pro
vided by taw;
(c) The payment of the sum of Firs
Hundred Thousand Dollars ( $500.000 >.
with interest thereon, borrowed by tpe
City of New Orleans for storm emergen
cy purpose# In the year f»19; -
(di The payment of the overdraft or
other indebtedness due by the City of
New Orleans to its fiscal agents or other
banks representing loans or advances
made bv them to said city, other than
those referred to In paragraph (c) of
this section, to an amount not exceed
ing In principal and interest the sum
of One Million Three Hundred and Fir*
ty Thousand Dollars ($1,"35«.00Q i : and
<e» The balance of said proceeds
shall be .sed and employed by the
Board of Liquidation. City Debt, for tbs
payment of Public Improvement Certifi
cates 6t the City of New Orleans, as set
forth In Section 3 of this amendment. ■
Section 3. the remainder of the
bonds authorized by Section 1 Of this
amendment, or so much thereof as may
be necessary, efcail b* sold, from time to
time. In such amounts as the B ard of
Liquidation, City Debt. may determine,
and the proceeds Of the sale thereof
Shall be applied by said Board to an#
payment or Public"Improvement Certifi
cates authorizai M "Art. «No. ÇÎ» If the
General Assembly if the £ täte of Louis
iana for the year Hot, aha acts amenda
tory thereof, and presently outstanding
or Issued at any time In payment of
any contract made before this amend
ment lakes effect, at their respective
maturities or whan said maturities can
to said Board.
bs anticipated upon ternjs satisfactory
Bald Act No. 5« Of 190S find all
amendments thereof, as well as all stat
utes upon the same subject, and so
much of Acts No. 128 ind No. 270 of
the General Arsembiy of the Bute or
Louisiana for the par mo, and other
statutes on the same subject matter, as
may affect, apply or pertain to the City
of New Orleans, be «ad the same are
hereby repealed: nevertheless Public
Improvement Cei tlflcafcs may .be issued
In the mannfir provided by said Act No
6« of 1 nog, an.f amendments thereof. In
payment of any contract made before
this amendment takes effect.
Section 4. The City of New Orleans
may also Issue and negotiate Its bonds
when authorized by s vote of a majority
in number and amount, of th'e property
taxpayers, who shall have bean assessed
for property In said city as shown by
the last assessment made prior to the
submission of the proposition to tne
said property taxpayers and who ars
oihevwire qualified to vote under the
Constitution and laws of this State,
voting at an election called "y ordinance
adopted by a vote of 'two-thirds of all
t^e members of the Commission Coun
cil. or Its successor as the governing
body of said City ot New Orleans, and
which ordinance before any such elec
tion is ordered shall be also adopted by
a vote of three-fourths of all the mem
bers of the Board of Liquidation. City
Debt Due notice of said election shall
be published for thirty days In the offl
r!al journal of eald city (four weekly
insertions of said notice constituting a
publication for thirty days, provided
thlrtc dav« Intervent between the date
c.r the first Insertion and the date of
sjjd elecuonj. „ 5
So bonds shall be issued under this
section for any other purpose or for
*>-v greater amount than that stated in
* o submission of the proposition to
£*#4 taxpayers.
Set tlor, 5. In cas» of fire, flood, pea
thrr*. storm or IS
if* Ci tv of New
Are.
Btorm or olh=*r public calamity,
' shall Sava
(5 ';,>r by a two-thirds vota 'of all ths
Of t p Oomu«!r«tioii Council, or
lis sar-te*o« a» the io-.-xjwpg body of
bk' o:Ja D «a* by a three
ti e mcr.ibajÿ of the
•f"
bo
ft*" WqtpdaHen. City
Debt, to
•%'r
* tr
ndi w
»hull i>».
7ô
it» i 'Aie and negotiate
>•. riot exrscdiag Flea
iar# (850C*.ooa>,
. : any one lush
- ■ ■ - V' -.. . •>
6urir.:'$ ft to*
mi'M
■
funding all or any part of the bonded
indebtedness of the City of New Orleans
existing at the time of the adoption of
tin* amendment, bonds may from t:me
to time be issued and negotiated. When
any of the issues of the bonds of said
city outstanding at tlie time of the adop
tion of this amendment shall become
callable according to their terms or tne
statutes under which they are respec
tively issued, or when the consent of
all the holders of any such issue of
bonds can be secured, the Board of Li
quidation. City Debt, shall have me
right In its discretion to call and pay
any one or more of said issues of bonds,
ngid shall be authorised by resolution
duly adopted to Issue and negotiate
bonds to provide the funds necessary
for that purpose; provided, however,
that in no event shall the par value of
the bonds so sold and negotiated ex
ceed the par value of the bonded in
debtedness thereby to be refunded.
Section 7. The full faith and credit
of the Ci tv of New Orleans are pledged
for the payment of the principal and in
terest of all bonds Issued under this
amendment.
The prtncfp&l and interest of all bonds
authorized by and to be issued under
this amendment shall be paid primarily
out of (1) that one-half of the surplus
of the one per cent debt tax which here
tofore has been dedicated for the sup
port and maintenance of the public
schools of said city, as levied under ana
authorized by Act No. 110 of the Gen
eral Assembly of the State of Louisiana
for thp year 1890, and subsequently
made part of the Constitution of this
Kt-Ue. and (2). alter January 1. 1928,
that portion of the one per cent debt
tax. authorized and levied tinder Act No.
110 aforesaid, and the two-mill tax au
thorized by and levied under Act No 6
of the General Assembly of the State
of Louis.ana for the year 180# whicn
shall have been released and freed from
dedication either by the calling and re
funding or the payment In due course
of all or any part of the bonds existing
at the time of the adoption of this
amendment; provided that, if the funds
derived from the sources aforesaid shall
be Insufficient In any one year to pay
the principal and interest of the bonus
issued under this amendment and then
outstanding and unpaid, or If for any
cause there shall not be funds appro
priated to or available for such purpose,
live City of New Orleans shall levy a
tax upon all taxable property, In said
city sufficient to provide for any such
deficiency, and provided further that,
when the aforesaid one per cent debt
tax and two mill water ana sewer tax
shall cease to be levied, the City of
New Orleans shall levy a tax upon all
taxable property In said city sufficient
to pav the principal and Interest of
said bonds as they respectively become
due.
Section 8. It is hereby Intended that
all existing dedication and approprla
ns of said one per osnt debt 1 tax au
,_rized by said Act No HO of 1890 (ex
_ pt with respect to the said one-hatf
of the surplus of the dne per cent debt
tax therein dedicated to public schools),
and of said two-mill water and sewer
tax. authorized by said Act No. 6 of
1899, shall be respected and performed
according to the priorities by said stat
utes established; that all of that portion
of the funds resulting from the levy of
•aid taxes which shall be released from
said appropriations and dedications t>y
ths payment, satisfaction or refunding
of any of the bonded debt obligations
now charged thereon and there-against
shall, together with the one-half of the
surplus of the one per cent debt tax
heretofore dedicated to public school
purposes, be used and applied to the
payment of the principal and Interest of
all bonds issued under this amendment;
that any residue thereof remaining after
the payment of the principal and Inter
est In any one year of bonds authorised
by this amendment shall be turned over
to the city of New Orleans, to be used by
It for general municipal purposes; but
when, and to the extent that, the obBga
War«» «Ml be
el cased from said obligations.
lately, when entirely released
irged, shall cease ta be levied;
paid, satisfied or refunded, said taxes
ah all be released from said
and. ultimately
and dtschar----- -------
and. that, thereafter, any and all bonds
issued under this amendment shall be
provided for by a tax upon all taxable
property In the City of New Orleans
sufficient to pay the principal and in
terest of featd bonds as they Yespectiveiy
become due; provided, however, that, in
the event the funds hereinabove special
ly dedicated for the payment of the
principal and Interest of the bonds Is
sued under thts amendment should prove
insufficient the City of New Orleans
shall, and It is hereby required to, levy
fn every such Instance a tax upon all
taxable property In the City of New Or
leans necessary to pay the principal
and Interest of said bonds.
Section 9. The principal and Interest
of all bonds authorized by this amend
ment shall bis payable In gold coin of
the United Btates of America, nr Its
equivalent, of the standard of weight
and fineness at the time of the issuance
of each installment of said bonds.
Bald bonds shall be exempt from all
taxation for State, parish, municipal of
other local purposes.
Savings banks, tutors of minors, cura
tors of interdicts, trustees and other
fiduciaries may Invest the funds in theii*
hand in said bonds.
Bald bonds may be used for deposit
with any .officer, board, municipality, or
other political subdivision of the State
of Louisiana in any case where by pres
ent or future laws deposit or security is
requlrad.
Bs
laid bonds may be registered and re
leased from registry under such rules
as the Board or Liquidst Ion, City Debt,
may prescribe.
Section 10. All bonds tssued under
this amendment shall boar auch rate or
interest or, from time to time, different
rates of interest, and shall, except as
herein other*!#« specially provided, be
ln euch form, terms and denominations,
find payable at Such times and places,
within a period of not exceeding atty
year# from the date thereof, as the
Board of Liquidation, City Debt, shall
determine. Said bonds shall be issued
In serial form and shall be payable in
annual installments, commencing not
more than two years from their respec
tive dates, and the installment payable
In each year shall be so fixed that, when
the annual Interest is added thereto, the
several annual total aim
clpal and interest to bo
several annual total amounts of prin
_ paid shall
as' nearly equal as practicable;
.id sb
provided,
said Installments may be fixed at nve
thousand dollars or the nearest multi
ple thereof.
„aid bonds shall be signed by tne
Ma vor and the Commissioner of Public
Finance of the City of New Orleans, or
officers exercising similar functions, and
countersigned by the President or Vic#
President and the Secretary or Assist
ant Secretary of ths Board of Liquida
tion, City Debt, and the coupons at
tached to said bonds shall bear tne
fac simile signatures of said Commis
sioner of Public Finance and said Sec
ret? ry or Assistant Secretary. In case
any such officer whose signature
or counter-signature appears upon
such a bona or coupon shall
cease to be such Officer before
delivery of said bond or coupon
to the purchaser, such signature or
counter-signature shall nevertheless o«
valid for all purposes. The cost and ex
pense of preparing and selling said
bonds shall bs paid for by the Board or
Liquidation, City Debt. .
Section 11. All bonds issued under
this amendment shall be sold by the
Board of Liquidation, City Debt, to tne
highest bidder or bidders by sealed pro
posals after due advertisement of not
less than five insertions in the official
Journal of the City of New Orleans (tne
first Insertion to beat least fifteen day#
prior to the <late of ths sale), and suen
other advertisement, in said city or
elsewhere, as "said Board of Limi tation
mav in Its discretion direct; provided,
said Board of Liquidation may reject
any and all bids.
Section 13. Except as otherwise pro
vided in this amendment, the City or
New Orleans shall not borrow money.
Issue bonds, notes or other evidences of
irrti b ted ness or rfiedgs Its credit or an
ticipats ths collection of any of its
4x..v'*
No money shall be draw* from t
treasury of
,
said city without auecihc i
aupropriauoa therefor previeualv mal«. '
nor «hall said city make <usy co.,t.aut .
1
aky '
I .
I
or Incur any debt or obligation for any
purpose whatsoever unless sufficient
funds, not otherwise appropriated. to
pay and disrhirye same are actually in
the treasury of said city at the time of
making the cont act or incurring tho
debt or. obligati oi and are speci.ically
set aside and dedicated to said purpose,
unless herein otherwise provided. The
foregoing limitation and restriction
shall not apply or be held to apply to
contracts or obligation incurred with
respect to the furnishing to said city or
light. heat or power, water, telephone
service or garbage removal or destruc
tion.
The said city may In any calendar
year In anticipation of the collection of
the taxes of such calendar year, and for
the purposes for which such taxes are
levied, borrow such sums as shall not
be in excess of Tie amount of its un
collected taxes of such year, and may
Issue its notes or other evidences of
indebtedness therefor, ar.d such sum,
notes or other evidences of indebted
ness sIibJI be payable only out of the
taxes of the calendar year in which said
loan or loans are first made, and tor
which indebtedness said revenues shall
be pledged, and said indebte mess shall
not be payable out of any other funds
or monpvK whii Mo mnnpv shall
Balt.
or moneys whatsoever No money shall
be borrowed by the said city except ror
current municipal purposes, and in no
event shall any money be borrowed by
said city to make or to pay for works
of public improvement. Said city may
issue for street paving purposes certifi
cates on its faun and credit pursuant to
legislative authority, to an amount not
in excess of any special assessments
which have been or shall be made for
such purposes. Such paving certificates
hereafter issued shall be chargeable
primarily against the special assess
ments in respect of which they are is
sued, and secondarilj- against the reve
nues of the City of New Orleans derived
from taxation for general municipal
purposes and from sources other than
the taxes for the payment of the princi
pal and interest of the bonds now out
standing or hereafter to be issued un
der this paving certificates only in the
event and to the extent that such
amendment, which revnues shall be ap
plied In payment of such special ass us
inent» shall be insufficient for such pay
ment. and reimbursement shall be made
to the general funds of the City of New
Orleans when the assessments are col
lected to the extent of the amount that
the said general funds shall have con
tributed to the payment aforesaid. So
much of Act No, 23 of the General As
sembly of the State of Louisiana for the
year 1914 as may be inconsistent here
with Is hereby repealed, and hereafter
no paving certificates shall be issued
upon the pledge of the reserve fund of
the City of New Orleans, but such cer
tificates shall be secured as herein and
otherwise provided for by said act or
subsequent legislative authority not in
conniet herewith; provided, however,
that paving certificates, for which the
faith and credit of the City of New Or
leans shall be pledged, whether issued
under the aforesaid Act No. 23 of 1914,
or under subsequent legislation, shall
not at .my one time be outstanding In
an amount in excess of Five Million
Dollars ($5.000,000) In face value.
Section 13. The total issue of bonds
by the City of New Orleans for all pur
poses shall never exceed ten per centum
of the assessed valuation of the proper
ty in said city provided, however, that
neither the bonds tssued for water,
sewerage and drainage purposes (name
ly. the $12.000.000 Public Improvement
Bonds Issued under said Act No. 6 of
1899 and the $8,000,000 New» Pub
lic Improvement Bonds issued un
der Act No. 19 of the General
Aoeembly of the State of Louisiana
for the year 1906, and acts
amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto, as well as such bonds, hereoy
or hereafter authorized, into which the
aforesaid bonus or any par therof may
be refunded), nor the $2,000,000 Publlo
State oi
nor any
-Public I
No. 179 of ths General Assembly of the
State of Louisiana for the year 1908,
bonds hereafter authorized for
Belt Railroad purposes, nor any
bonds which may hereafter be issued
for water supply or for the acquisition
or construction of any revenue produc
ing public utility, nor any paving certifi
cates primarily chargeable against spe
cial assessments for street paving, shall
be Included in computing the Indebted
ness of said City or New Orleans under
this limitation; and provided further,
that emergency bonds may be issued as
authorized in Section 5 of this amend
ment even though said limitation shall
have been reached provided that tne
Nine Million Dollars of bonds authorized
by Section 1 of this amendment shall
not be subject to the limitation herein
fixed at the time or times that same
shall be issued; but, with respect to
any other bonds that may be issued
feereafter under this amendment tnere
shall be Included In the computation
said Nine Million Dollars of bonds, not
withstanding the fact that all of said
Nine' Million Dollars of bonds shall not
have been actually issued, and suen
amount of emergency bonds as may bs
then outstanding.
Section 14. The Board of Liquida
tion. çity Debt, as now organized and
created with the powers, duties and
functions prescribed by existing laws
and by this amendment, shall be con
tinued: while any bonds authorized oy
this amendment are outstanding and un
paid; and all taxes which may tie levied
for the payment of said bonds shall, day
by day as collected, be paid over to said
Board, and shall by It be applied In pay
ment of the principal ana interest of
said bonds; and said board shall with
respect to all bonds authorized by this
amendment be entitled to exercise all
the rights and enforce the performance
of all the obligations, ths same as it is
authorized to do under laws existing at
the time of the adoption of this amend
ment with respect to any of the present
ly outstanding bonds of said City of
New Orleans. All funds, property and
things of value held by the Board of Li
quidation. City Debt, for bonded debt
purposes other than taxes now or here
No. 133 of the General Sfiembly of the
State of Louisiana for the year 1880
and all amendments thereto, shall when
released from contract obligations or
dedications Imposed bj laws existing at
the time of the adoption of this amend
ment l>e used and employed In the dls
creatlon of said Board in payment and
retirement of any bonds of the City or
New Orleans then outstanding.
Section 15. For general municipal
purposes, exclusive of the support and
maintenance of the .public schools and
the payment of the bonded debt of the
City of New Orleans, said city may in
each yfsar levy upon all taxable property
within said city a tax not exceeding
six and one-half mills on the dollar of
the assessed valuation thereof; pro
vided, however, that when the one per
cert debt tax authorized by said Act No.
110 of. 1890 and the two mill water and
Sewer tax authorized by said Act No. 6
of 1899 shall both have ceased to be lev
ied. and if thereafter the taxes levied by
the City of New Orleans in any one
year for bonded debt purposes be less
îhân t»n rou'ls said city may In such
than ten muiB, saia city may in suen
event® levy for its general purposes
such additional tax which, when added
to thè tax of six and one-half mins
herebv authorized and the taxes levied
for tbe payment of the principal and
Interest of its bonds as they severally
mature, shall not exceed in the aggre
gate sixteen and one-half mills.
Beet ion 16. The reservation of twen
ty per cent of the revenues of the City
Of New Orleans Bhall not hereafter be
made as directed by Section 40 of the
Act No, 169 of the General Assembly of
the Stete of Louisiana for the year
1912, except insofar as the fund so di
rected to be reserved "shall have been
appropriated or dedicated before this
amendment takes effect to the payment
of anv Obligation ox the Cit} of New
Orleans, ami saM reserve fund of each
year, when released from the obliga
tion# fiharevd against it by law and oe
cause of contracts, existing at the tlms
of the ado tlon of this ncacnlmeat.
shall fed ucel for general municipal pur
P 6 * 1 * .. ___...____.
' Section 17. For the support, naiint#
re-re. construrtUn anrl repair of the
public 8cho-le in the City of New On
!»-' a. ti e Board of Directors af the
Pniiit! set-Ms. Parish of Orleans, or Ha
ia&ai Hucc. ssor. shall levy annually
6 ' . hr rot exceeding three and one
necewsa ryT which ^evy^sbaU ba^certtfied
ell or other future governing body of
the City of New Orleans, which shall
cause the tax to be entered upon the
tax rolls of said city according to law
against all taxable property In said
city as assessed and valued for city
taxation purposes; and said tax shall be
collected by said city and paid over to
! said Board of Directors of the Public
1 Schools, Parish of Orleans, day by» day
I as collected.
i Said tax shall he in lieu of all taxes,
! appropriations and funds now authorlz
ed or directed to be levied or contrib
uted by the City of New Orleans for
public school purposes, either by said
Act No. 110 of 1800 or other provisions
of the Constitution of this State. All
constitutional provisions to the con
trary. as well as Act No. 262 of the
General Assembly of the State of Louis
iana for the year 1914. ratified as an
amendment to the Constitution of this
State, are hereby abrogated and repeal
ed; and the City of New Orleans shall
have no power or authority to use or
employ any of Its taxes or funds for
the establishment, support or mainte
nance of the public school«, directly or
Indirectly, except as herein authorized;
provided, however, that the City of New
j ÖrleM» 1 admin ^r.ute and em -
P|_°> funds, property or thl K8
of value now or hereafter held by it
' under any special legacy, bequest or do
j nation made or to be made directly to
it for school purposes, and shall carry
I out and execute the conditions of all
I such special legacies, bequests or dona
; tlons that have been heretofore made to
! and accepted by said City of New Or
leans and all such as may horeafter be
made to and accepted by said city.
Section 18. For the purpose of giv
ing additional support to the Public
schools, the Board of Directors of tne
Public Schools, Parish of Orleans, or its
legal successor, may levy upon all tax
able property in the city of New Orleans
a special tax not exceeding two mills
on the dollar of the assessed valuation
of said property (which special tax shall
be in excess of the tax authorized by
Section 17 of this amendment), wnen
ever (1) in the manner prescribed by
Act No. 256 of the General Assembly of
the State of Louisiana for the year
1910, and amendments thereof, or in
such other manner as shall be prescrib
ed by law, the rate of such special tax,
the number of years it is to be levied
and the purpose for which the tax is
intended shall have been by said Board
submitted at an election tc a vote of
the proparty taxpayers of the City of
New Orleans entitled to vote under the
laws of this State, who shall have been
assessed for property in said city as
shown by the last assessment made
prior to the submission of the proposi
tion to the said property taxpayers, and
(2) a majority of the same in number
and amount voting at said election shall
have voted therefor. The levy by said
Board of any tax so authorized shall be
certified, assessed, collected and paid In
the manner prescribed by Section 17 of
this amendment.
Section 19. The Board of Directors
of the Pufilic Schools Parish of Orleans,
or Its legal successor, shall not capi
talize the whole or any part of the
taxes which by this amendment it is au
thorized to levy, nor fund the same into
bonds, nor borrow money in anticipation
of the collection thereof; provided that
said Board may, in any calendar year,
in anticipation of the collection of the
taxes of such calendar year and for the
purpose for which such taxes a re levied,
borrow such sums as shall not be in ex
cess of the amount of Its uncollectad
taxes of such year, and may issue its
notes or other evidences of indebtedness
therefor, and such sums, notes or other
evidences of Indebtedness shall be pay
able only out of the taxes of the calen
dar year In which said loan or loans
are first made and for which Indebted
ness fehali not be payable out of any
other funds or moneys whatever; pro
vided, however, no moneys shall be bor
rowed by said Board for any other pur
poses than current purposes, and in no
event shall &tif nrcmey ns-borrowed by
said Board to make or to pay tor per
manent improvements; and provided
further, that said Board shall not maze
any contract or Incur any debt-or obli
gation unless sufficient funds not other
wise appropriated, to pay and discharge
the same are actually in the treasurey
of said Board at the time of making
said contract or incurring said debt or
obligation and are specially set aside
and dedicated to said purpose, except as
may be hereinabove specially provided.
Said Board shall annually and prior
to the beginning of the scholastic year
prepare a budget of its receipts and ex
penditures and said budget, before It
becomes effective, must be approved by
the Commission Council of the City of
New Orleans, or Its successor as the
governing body of said City, and all ap
propriations by or expenditures of said
Board not Included in the said budget
shall likewise before becoming effect.ve
be approved by said Commission Coun
cil or Its sal! successor;
Provided that nothing herein shall
be taken or construed as authorizing
the Commission •Council or Its suc
cessor to change, alter, substitute or
eliminate any of the Items of the
budget thus submitted; the true in
tent and meaning hereof being that
the said council or its successors shall
have no authority whatsoever In or
over said budget, except to the extent
of ascertaining whether the proppsed
expenditures as exhibited by said
budget are within the probable and
estimated revenues of said Board of
Directors of the Public Schools, Par
ish of Orleans. -
Section 20. The Inhibition herein
established against the City of New
Orleans and the Board of Directors of
the Public Schools. Parish of Orleans,
or either of them, borrowing money,
anticipating their revenues, capitaliz
ing their funds or Issuing notes of
other evidences of debt, shall apply
to all boards, commissions or bodies
created by or under the authority of
the Common Council of the City of
New Orleans, or its successor as the
governing body of said city.
Section 21. The provisions hereof
are self-operative, and the City of
New Orleans and the several boards
and bodies herein referred to shall
carry the same into effect.
Be It further enacted, etc., that the
amendment proposed by this act shall
be submitted to the electors of the
State for their approval or rejection
at the Congressional election to be
held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday In the month of Novem
ber, 1916; that there shall be printed
on the official ballots to be used at
said election the words:
"For the proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Louis
iana providing for the funding of cer
tain debts of the City of New Orleans
and of the Board of Directors of the
Public Schools, Parish of Orleans,"
and the words:
"Against the proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Louis
iana providing for the funding of cer
tain debts of the City of New Orleans
and of the Board of Directors of the
Public Schools, Parish of Orleans;"
and that each elector shall indicate
. oa
on the ballot cast by him, as provided
by the general election laws of the
State, whether he votes for or against
the proposed amendment.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD.
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
FERNAND MOUTON.
Lieutenant Governor and President of
the Senate.
Approved: June 8, 1918.
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
A true copy:
JAMES J. BAtLET,
Secretary of State.
House EU! No. E. By Mr. Heintz.
JOINT RESOLUTION
jjp r0 p 0s iog au amendment to Article 1X8
of the Constitution of the State of
Louisiana on the subject of Juvenile
Courts*
Section 1. Be it resolved by the
General Assembly of the S - a tu of Lou
isiana. two-thirds of ail the members
elected to each House concurring, that
the fifth section of Article 118 u;
Act No. 13
OonetUuiLm of the Bta t e of LouL tana
Section 2. Be it further resolved,
etc., that this proposed amendment
shall be submitted to the qualified elec
tors of the State for adoption or rejec
tion at the Congressional election to be
held on Tuesday, November 7, 1916.
Section 3. Be it further resolved,
etc., that on the official ballots to be
used at said election there shall be
placed the words: "For the proposed
amendment to Article 118 of the Con
stitution of Louisiana," and the words,
"Against the proposed amendment to
Article 11S of the Constitution of Lou
isiana," and each elector shall indicate
as provided in the general election
laws of this State, for which of the
propositions he votes.
H MW ITT B< »UANCHAUD,
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
BTHELRED M. STAFFORD.
President Pro Tempore of the Senate.
Approved: June 16, 1916,
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
A true copv:
JAMES J. BAILEY.
Secretary of State.
Act No. 28
Senate BUI No. 77. By Mr. Leon R:
j Smith.
I AN ACT
Proposing an amendment to Article
j 270 of the Constitution of the State
I of Louisiana, relative to the voting
and levying of special taxes in aid
of public improvements.
Section 1. Re it resolved by the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana. two-thirds of all members
elected to each House concurring. That
Article 270 of the Constitution of the
State of Louisiana be amended so as
to read as follows:
I Article 270. The General Assembly
shall have power to enact general laws
authorizing the parochial, ward and
municipal authorities of the State, by
a vote of a majority of the property
tax payers, in number entitled to vote
under the provisions of this Constitu
tion, and in value, to levy special taxes
in aid of public improvements, railway
enterprises, river transportation lines,
such as steamboat and barge lines, and
navigation canals; provided, that such
a tax shall not exceed the rate of five
, milÿ per annum nor extend for a long
er period than ten years: and provid
ed, further, that no taxpayer shall be
permitted to vote at such election un
less he shall have been assessed for
property, the year previous, in the
parish, ward or municipality to be af
fected.
Section 2. Be It further resolved,
etc.. That the foregoing amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Lou
lana be submitted to the electors of
the State at the next election for Rep
resentatives in Congress, to be holden
on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday In November, 1916, and on the
official ballots to be used at said elec
tion shall be placed the words: "For
the proposed amendment to Article
270 of the Constitution of the State of
Louisiana," and the words, "Against
the proposed amendment to Article 270
of the Constitution of the State of
Louisiana," and each elector shall In
dicate, as provided in the general elec
tion laws of the State, for which of the
propositions, "f<5r" or "against," he
votes for.
FERNAND MOUTON,
Lieutenant Governor and President of
the Senate. •
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD,
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
Approved: I«
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
A true copy:
JAMES J. BAILEY, ,
Secretary of State.
Act No. 68
By Mr. Kantz, Chairman, Committee on
City Affairs. Substitute for House
Bill No. 178, by Mr. Barrett.
A JOINT RESOLUTION.
Proposing an amendment to the Con
stitution of the State of Louisiana,
granting to the City of New Orleans
power to construct, equip, maintain
and operate, through and by the
Public Belt Railroad Commission of
the City of New Orleans, bridges and
tunnels across the Mississippi River
at or near New Orleans, and to do
various acts incidental thereto and
to the operation generally of the
Public Belt Railroad system of the
City of New Orleans, and providing
for the submission of said amend
ment to the electors of the State for
their approval or rejection.
Section 1. Be It enacted by the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana, two-thirds of all the members
elected to each House concurring, that
subject to the ratification and approv
al of the electors of the State, the
Constitution of the State be amended
by Incorporating therein the following
provisions, to-wit:
(1) The City of New Orleans Is
hereby granted plenary and exclusive
power, by such means and methoas as
it may deem meet and proper not in
eonfllct with the provisions of this
amendment;
(a) To construct, equip, maintain
and operate across the Mississippi Riv
er, at or near. New Orleans, bridges
and tunnels for railroad and highway
use, together with all approaches, rail
road and highway connections, roads,
roadways, railroads, terminals, water
craft and other structures, Improve
ments, facilities and accessories there
unto appertaining;
(b) To acquire, by expropriation or
otherwise, the property, ownership,
use or possession of any lands or other
things necessary for the construction,
equipment, maintenance or operation
of any such bridge or tunnel and ap
purtenances; and
(c) To lay out, opeè, close, alter or
change the route of any roadway, non
navlgable stream or drain over which
the approaches of any such bridge or
tunnel, or over which any part of the
Public Belt Railroad system of the
City of New Orleans shall extend.
(2) The City of New Orleans Is
further hereby granted power, for the
purpose of constructing any such
bridges or tunnels and appurtenances,
and for the purpose of acquiring the
lands or other things necessary there
to. to Issue its obligations in such
forms, numbers, denominations and
amounts, at such times and prices and
upon such terms and conditions as to
maturities, rates and payment of in
terest and final redemption as the said
City of New Orleans may deem advis
able, subject to the following limita
tions:
(a) Except as may be herein other
wise provided, all such obligations
shall be secured solely and only by
liens and mortgages upon and against
such bridges or tunnels and appurte
nance*. and the lands or other things
necessary thereto, and by a lien and
pledge upon the net revenues derived
from the operation thereof, and shall
be paid therefrom and from no other
source or sources whatsoever, except
as otherwise stipulated herein, and not
by any tax or assessment or levy
upon any taxable property in the City
of New Orleans, nor out of any other
funds, revenues or things of value of
said city: the true intent and meaning
hereof being that save and except to
the extent, out of the funds, and in the
manner herein stated, the City of New
Orleans shall never be liable for, nor
shall It assume, any debt, liability or
obligation incurred or crested in the
execution of the provisions hereof,
(B) During the period of construc
tion of vueTi bridges a-d tunnels and
appurtenances, and during !'Ueh times
j,6 she revenue« fro;n the operation
thereof shall not he 'efficient to pjo
vide for the Interest on, and for the re
demption of, any and all of the ob
^Urctions hereinabove authorized to
---,, , - t r„ -
t8$ued, any »uä «11 ui iuch ofcjif«
_____—-u, ____*•
.tlons falling due shall be redeemed and
|all accrued interest shall be paid
7from the net revenues of the Public.
»Belt Railroad system of the City of
New Orleans to such extent as may be
required, after providing in the man
ner prescribed by Act No. 179 of the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana, session of 1908, for the pay
ment of the principal and interest of
any bonds authorized by said Act No.
179 of 190S, whether heretofore or
: hereafter issued.
(3) Any bridges or tunnels and ap
purtenances thereof constructed,
equipped, maintained or operated by
the City of New Orleans under the au
thority hereby conferred, and all
other property acquired by the
City of New Orleans under the pro
visions of this amendment, shall form
and are hereby constituted an
integral part of the Public Belt
Railroad system, as it now or as it
may hereafter exist, which said sys
tem the City of NCw Orleans is here
by authorized to extend and operate
in and beyond the Parish of Orleans;
and the Public Belt Railroad Commis
sion of the City of New Orleans is
hereby vested with the same powers
with respect to the Public Belt Rail
road system as well as w ith respect to
such bridges, tunnels, appurtenances
and property, their acquisition, con
struction, operation and development
as are now vested in said Commission
by Act No. 179 of the General Assem
bly of the .State of Louisiana, session
of 1908, with respect to the Public
Belt Railroad as presently establish
ed.
The Public Belt Railroad Commis
sion is hereby authorized without
prior authority or approval therefor by
the Commission Council of the City of
New- Orleans, to expend out of any of
Its revenues and for the purpose of
constructing such bridges or tunnels
a sum net to exceed twenty-five thou
sand dollars on any one contract, pro
vided. however, that all disbursements
beyond said sum shall be made only
after they shall have been first author
ized and approved by the Commission
Council of the City of New Orleans.
(4) The Public Belt Railroad ConY
mission, under such terms and condi
tions as it may deem advisable, shall
have the right to switch, handle or
convey, in continuous movement, for
any rgilroad, trains over such bridges
or through such tunnels and over the
main lines of the Public Belt Railroad
to the depot or yard of said railroad, or
to any union passenger depot or union
terminal of the Public Belt Railroad
system; it being understood that the
sole purpose of this provision Is to fa
cilitate the movement of trains enter
ing the City of New Orleans on the
east or west bank of the Mississippi
River. Under no condition can the
Public Belt Railroac} Commission
grant switching privileges to any
railroad over the Public Belt Railroad
system. ;
(5) Any bridge or tunnel construct
ed and any appurtenances thereof, and
any lands or other things necessary
thereto, acquired or constructed under
the provisions of this amendment, and
any and all property leased to or by 1
the City of New Orleans for the pur
pose of this amendment, during the
life of the lease, shall be exempt from
every form of taxation, special assess- .
ment or license, and shall in no man- :
ner be hypothecated, leased or alien- |
ated except and only to further the ac- ;
qulring of other property or proper
ties for the Public Belt Railroad sys- i
tem, or to otherwise advance and |
carry out the objects and purposes of
this amendment.
(6) The provisions of this amend
ment shall constitute a contract be- :
tween the holders of any and all ob
i.
leans.
(7) None of the provisions of this
amendment shall be construed or In
terpreted so as to conflict with the
provisions of Act No. 4 of the General
Asse.mbly of the State of Louisiana,
session of 1916, being a Joint Resolu
tion proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the State providing for
the funding of certain debts of the
City of New Orleans and of the Board
of Directors of the Public Schools,
Parish or Orleans, respectively, nor
as repealing, affecting, changing or al
tering Act 179 of the General Assem
bly of the State of Eoulsiana for the
year 1908. authorizing the issuance of
two million dollars for bonds for Belt
Railroad purposes.
(8) That all the rights, "franchises
and immunities heroin granted shall
continue and exist only upon the con
dition that the construction of said
bridge shall be actively begun not lat
er than May 1, 1920, and that the
bridge shall be completed within five
years from the date of the commence- 1
ment of the work; provided, that after
the work of construction has begun,
in the event of delays occasioned by
litigation, strikes, panics, lock-outs, j
failure of contractor or sub-contrac
tors to deliver materials on contract j
time, or of any contractor or sub- !
contractor to complete work on con
tract time, or any delay occasioned by ]
any act or circumstance over which
the grantee herein has no control,
there shall be and Is hereby granted
further time for completion, equal to I
the period covered by such delays; and 1
provided, further, if the Congress of
the United States shall, after the con
structlon of said bringe has begun,
grant an extension of time or further
delay for the completion of said
bridge, then such additional delay
shall be and is hereby, Ipso facto,
granted under this Act.
Section 2. Be it further enacted,
etc., That the amendment proposed by
this Act shall be submitted to the
electors of the State for their approv- |
al or rejection at the Congressional
election to be held on the first Tues- 1
day after the first Monday in the
month of November, 1916; that there
shall be printed on the official ballots
to be used at said election the words; j
"For the proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Louis- 1
iana granting to the City of New Or
leans power to construct, equip, main- I
tain and operate bridges or tunnels
across the Jlississippi River at or near
New Orleans, etc.;" and the words
"Against the propose*» »mendment to
the Constitution of the State of Lou
isiana granting to the City of New
Orleans power to construct, equip,
maintain and operate bridges or tun
nels across the Mississippi River at or
near New Orleans, etc."
And that each elector shall indicate
on the ballot cast by him, as provided
by the general election laws of the
State, whether he votes for or against
the proposed amendment.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD,
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives. —
FERNAND MOUTON,
Lieutenant Governor and President of
the Senate.
Approved: June 30, 1916.
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana
true copy;
James J. BAILEY,
Secretary of State.
Act No. 84
House Bill No. 193. By Mr. Powell, i
Chairman, Committtee on the Judi- j
clary. Section "A," Substitute for
House Bill No. 3.
A JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to Article !
148 of the State Constitution rela
tive to the District Attorney for the j
Parish of Orleans, his election, quail- !
fication, term of office, compensa- i
lion, assistants and office force.
Sec*J© t 1. Be It resolved by the ;
General As-euUily of the State o'. Lou- !
isiana. two-thirds of the Bueiubefa
elected by each house concurring. That j
Article 148 of th*- Constitutl: n of the
State of Louisiana be so amended as •
to read as 'Tb'ewYg
Au-tjaie' 148. There shall ~
trict Ättomsy for the Parish 0 f oU
, Qv
(Continue^ n p*ge four )
Election Officers*
In accordance with Section 23, of
Act 35 of 1916, the Parish Dcmocr i c
Executive Committee, mot on Autr i t
j 22nd, 1916, and selected the followg
j officers to conduct the Primary Elect! i
j to be held on September 12th, 1916.
Ward Une, Pi- omet [)n >, (Irai i ■ C.
I Room: <Commissioners, (A. Br
! E. L. Scarborough, R 0. Hicks; Cierks,
B. K. Boydston, L. W. Barlow and
Deputy sheriff Ambrose Wallet.
Ward One, Precinct Two, Police Jury
Room Commissioners, Ad. Sompa.
rac Hy. Crow, E rn mett II a w -
! kins, Harvey Breedlove, John W.
j Tobin: Deputy Sheriff, R. A. Simmons.
1 W ard i wo. Precinct One, Ashland
; Commissioners, 3. F. Barron, B. CotT e
! S. L. Joiner; Clerks, V. V. Hawthorn,
M. F, Pullig; Deputy Sheriff, Henry
Joiner.
Ward Two Precinct Two, Chestnut.
: Commissioners, Sam V\ eaver, E. K
Weaver, G. Walker; Clerks, R. N Fin
ley, E. i ! . Weaver; Deputy Sheriff, i.
P. Moss.
Ward Two, Precinct Three, Gol
donna. —Cuimni loners, li. P Shepard,
I Ed. Gunter, .1 M. Golden; Clerks, ii.
P. Quarles, M. O. Gunter; Deputy
Sheriif, W'. F. 1'errei 1 .
W ard Three, Precinct One. —Grappe's
Bluff.—Commissioners, A. L. Messick,
C. Copellar, E. G. Bandans; Clerks,
E. A Grappe, T. C. limey; Deputy
Sheriff, J. r . bcopeni.
Ward Three, Precinct Two, Powha
tan,—Commissioners, Chas Pouncy, W.
G. Yarborough, T. J. Hart; Plerks, W.
R. Burnside, Ramey Poissot; Deputy
Sheriff, O. Eredieu.
W ard Four, Precinct One, Campti.—
Commissioners Will Grappe, P. A.
Cloutier, Hy. Hyams; Cierks, E. C.
Readheimer, W . V. Tally; Deputy
Sheriff, S. M Raphiel.
Ward Four, Precinct Two, Clarence -
Commissioners, A. B. Sompavrac, A.
Desetlier, W. E. Dunckelman; Clerks,
T. E- Harper, G. E. Davis; J**puty
Sheriff, J. L. Vercher.
Ward Five, Precinct One, Martha
viile. — Commisioners, George Young
blood, Ira Winn, B. T: Lock; Clerks,
T. G. Crump, Foster Thigpen; Dcomy
Sheriff, I. u. Rains
Ward Five, Precinct Two, Beulah.—
Commissioners, G. E Megerson, i. vV.
Mailed, Ed. Bailaru; Cieras, G Blan
kenship, Jim Knott; Deputy sheriff,
A. S. James
Ward Five, Precinct Three, Ajax.—
Hugh Buden, B. h, teer, John inomp
son; Clerks, « hes. Walker, J. ii. Bal
iaid; Deputy Sheriff, Mack Thompson.
Ward Six, proeinct One, Robeline.-
L. W. Jacobs, George Roregues, ü M.
l.aldwell; ( ierks, j. A. ."slater, Jerry
Clark; Deputy Sheriff, Luther Page.
Ward Seven, Precinct One, öhady
Grove.—Commissioners, Sidney Sparks,
George Leaen, Jos. Sparto; Clerks, ö.
*" Nortuwi ~ '
W a ruôev en, Pr ec Inet 'fwoj* FWw n «
cal.- Commissioners, I. L. Donoho, W.
M. Jones, W. L. Stephens; Clerks,
Milton Sanders, Jim Meadows; Deputy
Sheriff, Johh Wagiey.
" ard Seven, Precinct Three, Vow
ells Mill. — Commissioners, Mat Seif,
Lee Sanders, Asa Singletary; Clerks'
G vV. robb, C. Rhodes; Deputy Sher
iff, George Heliand.
"aid Eight, Precinct One, Kisatchie.
- Commissioners, Nat Key, U m: Key,
v\. S. Dowd n; . Ierks, t . E. Taylor,
R. J. Volenti ne; Deputy Sheriff, J. J.
Key.
V. ard Eight, Precinct Two, \ora.—•
Commissioners, F. Ivl. Bolton, Jesse
-,e orge, Jesse Fletcher; Clerks, C. h.
uarsnali, Monroe Martin; Deputy Sher
iff G W. uaxey,
Ward Nine, Precinct One, Natchez.—
Commissioners, Abe Kranson, F. A.
i loutier, E. G, Murphy; Clerks, Paul
Rachai, Leon Friedman; Deputy Sher
iff, Pete Luilett.
Ward Nine, Precinct Two, Cypress.—
Commissioners, C. < . O'Quin, Earnest
Mala neon, W. R. Rachai; Clerks, L.
C. Malancon, Lee Biuce; Deputy
Sheriff, W. \V. Booty.
Ward Nine, Precinct Three, Mont
rose—Commissioners, Ed. DeLouche,
J. H. Adger, S P. Bass; Clerks, C.
Longois, Jr., T. E. Holiaway; Deputy
Victor Lacaze.
Ward Ten, Precinct One, Cloutier
ville. — Commissioners, J. E. Kerry, J.
M. Vercher, Sam Lacaze; Clerks,
John Brossett, E Poche; Deputy Sher
iff, Paul Gallien.
Ward Ten, Precinct Two, Chopin.—
Commissioners, Chas. Salard, J. M.
Johnson, Lee -harp; Clerks, A. Carna
han, Fid. DeLacerda; Deputy Sheriff,
Albert Brossett.
Ward Ten, Precinct Three, Marco.—
Commissioners; Frank Dean, Fred
Huthnance, F. M. Bostick; ( Ierks, E.
J. Dutille, John Abraham; Deputy
Sheriff, M. L DeLacerda.
Polls will open at 6:0b a. m. and close
at 7:00 p. m.
U. P. UKEAZEALE,
Secretary
Sheriff Sale.
Southwest National Bank of Comm free
vs
Caldwell-Norton Lbr. Co.
(Now called Loleyn Lumber (jo. Ltd.)
By virture of a writ of Seizure and
Saie issued in trie above entitled a ii
numbered cause, by the Judge of the
11th D. C., Paiish of Natchitoches. La.
of date July 21st 1916, to me directed,
and to that effect, 1. J. W, PAYNE,
Sheriff of the parish of Natchitoches,
La., did seize and take into my pos
session and will offer for sale, to the
last and highest bidder, upon the term-t
hereafter stated, at the principal fn nt
door of the Court House in the City
and Parish of Natchitoches, La., on
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7th 1916,
at the Hour of 11 o'clock a. m, the
following described property, to-wit;
40 acres NE!T of NW' ( Section 15 T
10 N. R. 10 w.
Terms of sale—Cash subject to ap
praisement,
j. w. payne, •
Sheriff, JParish of Natchitoches
'8-3T30d
: Enterprise Ads brio# results.
Try them.
