ate Historical Society
Taney
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Vol. 21. No. 42
A Dangerous Precedent.
For the fust time in the history ol
the country the president of the Uni
ted Spates has voluntarily taken upon
himself the set-lenient of labor disputes.
Without any legal authority President
Wilson has called the presidents of the
railways and the representatives of the
trainman before him and is using the
power of his high office to compel an
agreement upon a basis which the
parties on one s.ide consider arbitrary
and unfair. In 1904 President Roos
veil effected a settlement of the anthra
cite coal strike in Pennsylvania, but
that was at the solicitation of the inter
ests iuvolvrd, and he made no attempt
to judge the issues. He secured a
joint agreement to submit the matter
to a commission of investigation aud
accept its findings. Mr. Wilson has
assumed the right to be judge and j iry
and to render a verdict without a trial.
It is true enough that the circumstanc
es are extraordinary and jusufy exiraor
dinary action. It is true enough that
the country is alarmtd at the dread
possibilities of such a strike as that
which threatens. But justice should
not be dethroneed because of a nation
al emtrgency, nor should a dictator
ship be set up on the excuse of public
duty.
Without any investigation of the
claims of the contending parties, Presi
dent Wilson has reached a decision
conceding the majjr demand of the
trainmen, and calls upon the railroads
to accept his judgment regardless of;
FOKSYT1I, MLSSOLUU, T1IU1WDAY, AUdUST 31, 1910.
Six Pages.
It is exparte reasoning that does net
appeal to the country's sense of fair
ne-s. The people of the United States
have ao inherent and profound regard
for j iitice, and they do not like to see
judgment rendered without a fair trial.
Judgment in this case has been rend
ered without any trial. The president
is in no position to know the facts, nor
has he the right or the authority at this
time to take virtual control of the rail'
roads of the country and compel them
to submit to his dictum. The pre
cedent now being established at Wash
ington is more dangerous th.m a gener
al strike, terrible as that would be.
G.obfDeraocrat.
the merits of their contention, and re
gardless of the consequences to the j
raitrnaHs thmc1ir TKa viilrnod in I
sist that the entire question be left to
arbitration, contending that only in
this manner can the rights or the
ly disclosed. The president says that
arbitration is impossible because the
trainmen refuse to submit their case
to arbitration." Therefore the only
thing to be done, from his standpoint,
is to give the trainmen what they want
Mr. Painter's Revelation.
While the angels are weeping at the
fantastic tricks before high heaven play
ed by Acting Governor Painter, dress
ed in a little brief authority, his con
duct may be bent ficial in the revela
tion of the actual reasons for depriving
the larger cities of the state of the self-
government eijiyed by all other corn
munities. The rural Misiourians got
an inkling of these reasuns at the St.
Joseph convention, when the govern
or's appointees in the cities used their
vast power to further his individual
aspirations. But Mr. Painter is con
tinuing the lesson on a larger scale.
He makes no hypocritical pretenses!
tnat police and election commissioners'
are chosen for the good of a'.l the
people. His only specific complaint
against Commissioner McPheeters is
that he failed to heed his request that
certain policemen be discharged be
cause of political activity disagreeable
to hitn four years ago. Now he is re
ported to have called the election com
missioners on the carpet to answer
complaints made by the Democratic
City Committee It isskiply a partis
an and factional mauer. Considerat
ions of the public wellare are not involv
ed Rural Missouii should see what a
power for evil the police, excise aud
election laws put in the hands of a
governor. The temptations to use
this power for advancement of his favor
ites and for his own political aggran
dizement is strong. The f xercise of
his power has resulted in many scan
dals. These abuses will continue as
long as this un-American system is
maintained. The Democratic in their
state platform of 1912 declared: ' We
favor giving to the larger cities of the
state home rule in accordance with the
fundamental Democratic principal of
self government, and to that end we
favor giving to them the rtght to elect
iheissecise and police commissioners
as they now elect all other officers, cr
in such other manner as they wish."
They enacted su-h a law and then
treacherously slew it with the referen
dum Mr. Painter's performances show
i why. How long will fair-minded Mis-
sourians encourage such conditions?
Globe-Dcmocr.it.
The publication in the Congressional
R?cord of the lists of contributors to
the Democratic campaign fund of 1912
reveals the name of Abram I. Elkus of
New York, who gave 85,000 to "the
cause" and who now receives his re
ward by appointment as Ambassador
to Turkey. Mr. Elku's "dividends on
water stock" as Senator Sherman calls
it, are larger thin those received by Am-
I J r i . ....
I cassaaor renneia at Vienna, wno gave
! $10,000. but not so large as those of
I Ambassador Willard at Madrid, who
I gave only $2,000. It seems that there
was not a fixed rate for embassies cr
legation-, and, like all speculative
enterprises, the element of luck enter
ed very largely.
Justice Hughes, does not seem to be
greatly worried over the retorts of Dem
ocnts. Hi j idieial experience has
led him to kno that it is well to have
the facts before you decide a case.
His summing np of the failure of De
mocracy can be depended on as facts
not fancies. Kenosha, Wis , News.
NUV AMERICANS !
sHt ' i (ll milk. 1
.J . .11 HI (Av!- m.
7 7 .tr.' If V t t& I ff.MMBIia I W WL U ' QWt BIL'J A. Bill Ji J 0Vi . m M M IF
" ' " I
Comforting Figures
Some of Mr. Russell's friends gath
er comfort from the results of the late
Congressional primary vote. Russell
received 21,340 votes while Smith,
Wilson and Hill, the Republican can
didates, received a total of 17,697.
These figures would be comforting to
democrats and discouraging to repub
licans if not compared with former
primary votes and general election
votes. In the last five primaries the
vote of both parties, according to the
Blue Book, stands as follows:
Year Democrats Republicans
1903 20,124 11,502
1910 18,156 14,895
1912 19,275 11,592
1914 22,788 12,190
1916 21,340 17,697
While at the general election the
vote stands as follows:
Year Democrats Remihliran
1908 25,187 25,951
1910 23.612 22.463
1912 26,081 25,066
1914 23,295 22,266
Thus it will be seen that in the later
years the Democrats have been casting
practically their full strength in the
primaries take the year 1914 there
were 22,788 Democratic votes in the
primary and only 22.295 Democratic
at the general election, a difference ol
of only 507 votes while in the same
year (1914) the Republicans cast only
12,190 votes in the primary, but in
me general election polled 22,266, a
difference of 10,076.
Again it will be noticed that in 1916
the Republicans cast 5507 more votes
in the prim iry than in 1914, and 2802
more votes than the party ever polled
in a primary.
The tables' of figures above show
that a large per cent of Republicans
votes do not vote in the primaries
while exactly the converse is true of
the !mocrats and at the recent pr
mary it is fair to conclude that prac
tically a full democratic vote was cant
because that party had seven candi
dates for governor and Mr. Russell had
the benefit'of their campaigns.
With a r. united party the 14th dis
trict is Republican by at least 1,500
and there can be no substantial doubt
about the election of the nominee, for
mer Speaker David W. Hill.
has also been felt in my district. Only
the other day a firm in the 56th lost a
sizable contract on account of this
black list. Appeals to State Depart
ment are barren of result. The appeal
that this country must make is to the
people for a change pf Administration
that we may have the application of
brain, bone and sinew to our foreign
affairs. My district is solid for pro
tection, the Democrats are thoroughly
demoralized, and a record Republican
vote will be hung up in November.
There are no strings or mental reser
vations to the public pledges of ad
ministrative reform given by Charles
Hughes. His record as governor of
New York gurantees the fulfillment of
every promise Omaha Bee.
CARTER In New York Fvtnlnn
"I've had enough of it"
War Prosperity "Spotted"
"B itish tnde restriction and Great
B rain's antrol cf ocean tonnage are
ureven'ing the farmers of my district
'run shuri-e :n this war order nrosnrr
y," declares Hon. Nirmin J. G)iild,
I tlie 35th Congressional D.strict New
York. "Sme of our manufacturers
have txptrienced a peid which, com
pared w.th the pre wir paralysis of our
inrius ries, may be called a prosperous
one, but the ou'look for the farmers U
anything but cheerful.
"To beAii ith, th? British author
ities placed apple on their list rf lux
uries, the importation of which, bv th.
United Kingdom, is banned. My dis
trict is a large apple pro lucing -s'c
tiontni b fore the publication of this
luxury list or farmers were, disposing
of their a pi s a1 road at very satis
factory prices, receiving as high as
$5.00abaml for the Iruit, but since
the publicati m nf this list the price has
gone down to 81 75 for the Utrr
price. As a res i!t of this s'unip in
apple prices a v :r large fr jit storage
company in Wnne, heavy produe
Dry-Weather Orchard Hints.
Mow the tall weeds and summer
grasses in the orchard, allowing them
to lie as a mulch under the trees.
Apples color and mature better,
especially on the lower limbs, if the
growth under the trees is mowed down
Green weeds and summer grasses
exhaust moisture from the orchard soil
in a dry time; a mulch on the ground
saves soil moisture.
Fruit buyers pay better prices for
apples in clean orchards; they can see
the Iruit. Its quality shows up. It
looks easy to handle. The man with
a neglected orchard never gets what
his fruit is worth.
Apple picking is made easier if the
weeds are mowed in the orchard and
the place kept clean. Pickers are dis
gruntled and do pocr woik where they
have to wade through weeds and briars
wet with dew or autum rains.
The grower who gets into his or
chard now sees anything else which is
the matter with his orchard, has hii at
tention called to anythig which needs
to be done to improve it, and learns a
good lesson lor next year's operations.
Dead limbs lake a great deal of
water from growing apple trees. They
are in the way at gathering time and
make the whole crop look diseased.
If caused by canker, the disease will
spread to other parts of the orchard.
Prune them out now and paint the
wounds.
Water sprouts and surplus limbs
take too much water from the tjees in
time of drought; prune out those which
are not needed on the tree and save
the water for the ripening frui fruit
wont mature well where shaded by
sprouts. The crop shows up better
where the tree is kept pruned, admitt
ing sunligh and air, and enables the
buyer to see the better Iruit. These
statements are not guesses or mere
opinions. They are some cf the things I
that have been proved by cartful tests
at the Missouri Aericultun! F.vnri
r -. .
ment Sta'ijn.
Cultured Buttermilk Replaces That From
Sour Milk.
The terra, buttermilk, has for many
years been applied tothe product left af
ter churning milk or cream and abstract
ing the butter. In the last few years a
new kind of buttermilk has been placed
on the market which is rapidly dis
placing the old fashioned, home-churn-eh
product. Some prejudiced exists
against this manufactured buttermilk
but, according to Dr. M. P. Ravenel
of the preventive medicine department
of the University of Missouri, it is real
ly cleaner, has a better taste and is
more suitable for food purposes than
the old product.
Butter manufactures do not depend
on the accidental souring of milk as
formerly, says Dr. Ravenel, but are
using "pure culture starters" as they
are called. So in manufacturing but
termilk, a known' germ is added to
skimmed milk, and an artificial butter
milk is produced.
Slightly different methods exists, but
this receipt represents the newer pro
duct and will show people what they
are drinking when they take the manu
factured buttermilk. One gallon of
whole milk is added to twentv gallons
of skimed milk as soon as Jit has been
separated. This is not neccessary, but
is done because most people like to
see some signs of butter fat in butter
milk. "Starter is added, and the
whole quantity of milk it kept at 70
degress F. for six or seven hours, when
it will be found to have curdled. It is
then churned for one half hour, and
should be bottled at ence and cooled
to 50 degress or below to prevent the
further development of acid and separ
ation of the whey. It is finally strain
ed through ch;esecloth to remove any
coarse lumps. It is a refreshing and
tasteful drink with high food value,
and as a summer drink is especially
good for both children and adults.
with a
iodine
Swat Th3 Chieeer.
Touch each chigger bite
brush that has been dipped in
or apply strong solutions of amonia or
on.mon baking soda after itching has
fgun. The better plan o course, is
10 prevent tne cnigger irom getting a
f lothold at all. This may be done in
a number of ways. A bath in hot
wi'er wi h strong soap is very gcod if
taken immrdiaiely alter passing through
the shrubbery and weeds from which
the chigiers are picked up, but the
best real preventive is fbwersof sul
phur rubbed all over the body, partic
ularly from the knees down. Th
iug county, ha gone into baiikrup'cy (iulpur may be made to stick better if
ana otners are puling 1 1 ih?ir b Its.
In addition, the graii outlook is
poor. Wet wea her has greatly i j ir
ed the oat crop. Wuat his stool it
better, but here again the heavy hani
of Great Britain is felt. Siie has put
the freight rate so t xtortionately high
that m order to deliver it in Liverpool
in competition with Argea'ine wh;at,
our farmers must dispose of their crop
at relatively unsatisfactory prices, or
carry it over. If, under pr-s:nt con
ditions Argentina can force us to cm
our prices on wheat to the 4 tick Liv- r
pool think what that county can do in
our own market when tne war isovr
mixed with a little ccld creim and
ribjed on. L Hasemio, Missouri
College of Agriculture.
Btl'iaiore Ameiican- twenty . five
tons of note paper have beeu sent to
the M.xicao border for the use of the
National Guardsmen. Many will be
surprised to learn there is that much
left in the country.
It is grieveing the old line Demo
critic newspapers very much to see
how apt ths Hughes women are' at
planning a campaign. The Demo
crats lear for the fireside and the home
The 60 percent reduction which the
Democratic tariff law made in the duty
on oats from 15c under the Republi
can law to 6c-raised hob with the Ameri
can market during the fiscal year end
ed June 30. 1914, nine months of
which was under the Democratic law.
During that fisical year 22,266,000
bushels of oats came in from Canada,
valued at $7,880,000 compared with
an importation of 708,000 bushels in
1913 valued at $275,550 under the
Republican tariff law. Then the war
came along, and Canada was obliged to
divert the bulk of her oat crop to the
theatre of hostilities. The same situ
ation presented itself in regard to hay
the Democrats reducing the duty on
that product 50 per cent. Our mar
kets were being stuffed with Canadian
hfy when the war broke out and that
crop went to Europe. Recently the
embargo on exports of hay from Canada
to neutral countries was raised and the
prospect is brigh for Canadian farmers
many of whom have carried over a por
tion of their last year'i crop, and they
plan to unload that on our market,
thanks to the Demacratic tariff law. Do
our farmers stand for a policy which
opens the American market to compe
tition from Canada limited only by the
productivity of Canadian soil? Isn't
the Republician policy ol protection
a pretty good one?
When the present fiscal year was
only six weeks old the deficit in the
Uaited States Treasury was more than
123,000,000 and Obly a few hundred
thousand less than it was for the time
peiiol of last year. Yet the revenue
receipt! for this year'i period were
more than ten millions above those of
last jear. What's the answer? It
would appear that the more money tl e
Democrats can get or plan for the more
they spend.
1 this keeijs no. but would see na m
if the Democratic free trade prov sion nace if the women would only vote lor
is then in operation. Wilson and let the fireside eo han.
The eflect of the British black 11 1 PhitadelphU Ledger.
The only instance b which the
Democratic party has subscribed to the
doctrine, "America first" it in the
levying of higher taxei on the . folks at
name Prague Okla., Record.
I came to Taneyville when the town
bad no blacksmith and if my work
suits yon tell your neighber, if not tell
' 4 11 U ...j tt n
. me. xvi wui umauieea. nr. s, Jones,
Tane.ville, Mo.
2t
