AocAeW
Mexico Missouri Message.
On your label In a dates .
Renew before It In too late.
NUMHKR UK
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THVRHDAY, Al'Gl'ST SI, 1910.
VOLUME 17.
A FLYING TRIP"
Twenty Miles In the Country and
llck AKln Visit to the South
west Corner Farm of Audrain.
ANXVAI, COXFF.RF.SCK
I '
In Session at I-'ayetle Mexico
Church Klects Officer and Sends
Delegates.
The Mexico Methodist Church
South at the quarterly conference
Col. J. T. Johnson, W. W. Pollock Moniay elected the following board
and Judge Alex Carterowna 320acre 'nf ..p,.,,,-. 4
farm in the very southwest corner of j j M Allen, C. A. Bast, John He;tl.
Audrain county. And that corner Is 1 Ro-. Drlarly, T. H. Hnice, C. S. Canip
also the northwest corner of ("alia- v.cll, C II. Carpenter, F. L. Crosb",
way county and the northeast comer 1 q l... Dran, 15. F. F.lliotl, S. P. K111
of Doone county. mone. Wm. Frostier, L. B. Hawthorne,
Well, a representative of Thej w. Howell, V. F. Kunth, 10. F.
(Farm and Stock News
r , -
One of the Czars
Message, John Washington, of the
Intelligencer, and Philip Bell, by the
courtesy of Mr. Poilock and Mr.
Kunkel, J. 0. I.iik'M.au, A. K. Luck
le.A.H.Monre, Dr.W. L. Reed, K. L.
Roblson, J. B. Slitvens, M. T Vande-
Jolyison in the former's Keo, look a grift, B. F.Wells, Paul St. Vraln, Los
drivo out to uald farm Tuesday of- ter Sillier.
ternoon. It is 20 miles from Mex- rr. v. I,. Reed 1ms been chosen
Ico.
ns Sunday School Superintendent ;
We went out over the Boulevard, R. F. Klllott, lay leader,
which Ib still holding its nil, dtiRtless' The one hundredth Annual Miri
am! smooth. Some of Ihe fine farms 1 coiti-i -('imieren.ee of (he Methodist
we passed on the way were C. W. j Episcopal Chrreh South in in session
t I
t
McMillan high
Will Open September 12th Employ
ment llureuu to lie Maintained;
Other Xotes.
Peace, who is building one of the fin-' nt Fsttettc. A number of (he hc-. i ,dtol Slates.
llll(TlIt., Cnllowny. Hereford and Alien: "ii Angus, the great luof
brocl.-i; Ilolstciii-Frlesian. itiiernsey. Ayrcshirc n"d the .lit o. dairy
bleed, will all be there Sept. "J" to 30, p.ili:. reiunii.a supreme 111 llieir
several classes, boused In the best lot of iiitdc show barns hi the
cKto rural homes in the county. Then ' church' are in attendance,
the Albert Pease place; the farm or!
the G recti Gain estate; Win. Hardin
Slmiiis place; the Have Larimnre
place; Elbert Perisho's home; Rev.
H. I. Cobb's; Fred Liehengood; Mrs.
Emily McCord, here a fine field -of
millet; J. R. Bradley;
Mil. RKXIK.
i ri'i rl.v of Moir-, Dies of T pli-.Ni
Fever at Ills I.ate llo:ne in Medu
lla. A. B. Renle, formerly of Mexico, a
Marlow jbrolher of John Renie. of (his city,
Schopp; Rulph Dean; Boswell Prlce.his mother also residing here, Mrs.
Charles Dean; H. F. Dean; Jim ! I M. Renie, died at his home in Se-
Crockett; Rose Pease here fall
plowing In progress; Jim Groves;
W. D. Blair; Judge S. C. Groves
who has a farm of 500 acres or
more; then the vast estate of (he
Browns, extending miles along the'
highway south off to the southeast
of Gant; V. V. Smith; Abe Hill; Bill
Johnson and Abe Jackson; Cleve
land & Brown; J. Shan Brown; L.C.
Reed who raises big red hogs
who plants walnut trees In tho fence
corners and who has some monster
.logs in embryo; Sam Craighead; F.
Seuoll. V
Next we came to our destination.
320 acres as we said, and 100 acres
of it as prelly virgin tinih.r as you
ever saw. We did not dream that
dalln Monday night of typhoid fe
ver, lie had been ill a month. Fu
neral services were held in Sedalia
yesterday afternoon, conducted by
Rev. W. A. Kokendoffer, after which
the remains were taken to Blooming
ton, 111., for burial.
Mr. Renie was CI years eld. II j
was a good man and many friends
here will be pained to learn of his
death. Thu wife survives him and
five brothers, John Renle of this
city, mentioned above, Charles Re
nle and Al. Renie, of Kansas City,
Wm. Renin of Centralis and Ed. Re
nie of Hallsvllle.
Pri'clit-Scobee.
Mr. 1 ru T. Piecht, son of Mr. and
The Missouri Stale Fair has a mission, and n portion of thai is to brlna to
your attention Ihe wonderful entile we now have within her benders and Ihe
very best from our siftc' ftntcs. To see Is to know. 11 ml to know Is to act; the
result more and la tter beef, more and liettcr dairy products.
iwal tin.' fly and the.i maintain a
j of garbage in the back yard?
W. 1). Mason lias K0 head of taule jenough to wet the feet of the men
on" feed. 'who tramp It. If too dry, add water
by running It into the blower. At
least two men are needed to tramp
the silage at filling. Special atton-
Fred Plate, out northwest of Mex- tlun si,itill be given to packing well
Ico, knows how to ralBe honey. He ;aroumi the edges. If the walls of
made a big shipment (o (he S(. Louis ;tile gii0 are not (K BOOj condition
repairs should be made (o keep out
market recently.
there was such a spot In Audrain Mrs. H. A. Precht. of Mexico, and
rmiil:'. Twenty men are engaged! Miss Margaret Scobce. daughter of
in clearing out the underbrush and! Mr. and Mrs. Jesso M. Scobee. also of
when the work Is finished then you th's city, were married Sundav in
.will boo a beauty sp..i indeed. Chillicothe. The groom was former-
When we nllghted we discovered ly emol-yed in the Graham store nt
th? wood-choppers' icnl and (hen; Mexico. Me is a miR( dependa
(here was au Invasion. We found ble fellow. His bride was one of Mexl
a Inrge pot of freshly cooked young co's best girls. Many friends here
squirrel and to go with it a big bake extend them best wishes. Mrs. H. A.
pan of cornbread. Why not? We, Precht and son, Cart, were guests at
went to eating of course. Jim John- the wedding.
son said he would eat that cornlfread
Hamilton Bros., south of Mexico,
sold their prize-winning pair of
mvtes recently to Hob Dye, o: Mon
roe county, for JGOO.OO.
Consldine & Boiisall, of Thomp
son, sold a big pair of tine horse
mules to I.ec F.rof.iers the best
pair of long-cared, fellows in this
part of the State, It Is Bald.
the air. If the doors do not fit well
;a good plan Ib to place a piece of tar
red paper over (he door on (he inside
allowing it to extend nbout two feet
on each side.
Wm. Lewis, out northwest of Far
her, dropped in to see the Message
Thursday. He left us a dollar (o re
new for (ho BUb3crlp(ion of J.
An employment Bureau Is main
tained at the high school for the pur
pose of securing work for those stu
dents who find it necessary to earn
all or part of their expenses.
This bureau guarantees no one a
position, but tries to help all who ap
ply. Boys and girls who desire In
formation ' regarding employment
should write to the principal.
School will begin September 12th.
All c'asses will meet for regulur
work on that day. Enrolling of
T.udents will, however, take plac" be
fore that time on days as follows:
Freshmen will enroll Tuesday, Sep
tember Kth; Sophomores. Wednesday,
September "th; Seniors. Fruiay, Sep
epti mber 6H1. Juniors, Thursday,
jS-ptcmber 8th. All non-resident stu
j dents will enroll Saturday, Septem
ber 9th.
It Is very important that the stri
dent enrolls . on days mentioned
above. Students who delay their en
rollment until September 12th or lat
er may Ind difficulty In securing
ihelr proper courses.
Students who have been previous
ly enrolled and who find it Impossi
ble to come in person may enroll by
mail.
Students and parents are urged to
study the ahnvo announcements and
si - rr nested to confer with the prin
cipal should any additional Informa
tion be desired.
WOODCRAFT STORIES
FOR LITTLE CHILDREN
By L. Roy Ferris.
Bunny Red Squirrel peeped In at 1 the woodshear you when you say
the icuool-room window. Vacation ! m(n things to oneano(her, and they
timo was almost over and Bunny
missed the hand-ful of hickory nuts
placed at the foot of the tree close !
love good children. Tommle knows
I. ill about snakes.
!po!soimus kinds
He says that the
have very small
necks and that thero are only two
to the school window, and there was ; klm,g of ponous snakes within 60
Tommle's father with pails and miles of the school house, the rattler
1
brushes making the dirt fly. Hialand Ihe copperhead."
dad was one of the school board, and I "nut how about the spreadhead?"
the rest of them hail promised to asked Stingum. "A?i, replied Red
help clean the school room but (hey Squirrel, "he la only a bluffer; bc-
nlways manag'd to be away busy ( cause Tommle says so. There is no
somewhere else, and let Tomniie's ; poison about him. Tommle says (he
dnd do all Ihe work. Red Squirrel Rohln builds (wo nests before his
would like to have nsked where Tom- little wife will occupy one, but he
mie was but Tommle's father could ; i.;ay use the other ono to make
not understand, so when he left the Pussy, the cat. think thay arc living
school and had locked the door Ilctljtn the lilac bush when really the four
Squirrlol was more lonesome than j blue eggs are safe in the cedar."
cver. ' "But here comes Brother Coon.
B?y and by Mr. Stingum Wasp came Let's see what ho has to eay."
along holding a large spider In his' Brother Coon with Ills eves twink-
feet and he Hopped at the broken j ling ai;ked. "Did you see littleWIKIe
Hubbard go by?"
"You mean (ha lidle fellow whose
I is always tun? . asKeu sister
Live Stock Ken.irler. Klmer P. js a Bis( -r of Mr. Lewis.
MKSSAC.K ROM. OF HOXOll.
Joe . Pratt, the horseshoer, ap-
even If he knew the men had mixed
the dough with their feet. Mr. Pol
lock and smiled. The two news-.
... n,., ot all that ihev could , Plates Ihe Message-renews
carry and Philip Bell got more even
han that, mouthful and both bands
rif.'l. My, but It was great eat
ing. Rut when those choppers came
In at supper (lmo (hey wermad.
The Hlh.'", feeders of fine cattle;
the "Smith Rros., breeders of line
hogs, and a hWt of other good farm
ers live In that Himmuillly.
Ah, It was a great visit we had out
.thai way.
Rev. H. T. Cobb is attending An
nual Conference of the M. E. Church
South at Fayette.
L. M. Lake, out In Idaho, sun
scribes for Ihe Message. The" paper
Is as good for him as "a letter from
home," so he Bays.
A letter from Rev. W. 11. Hook,
at Hunter, Mo.. Blatea that he has
been very unwell of late. The weath-
The farms and fields looked more er nttB been fearfully hot tnd dry
beautiful than we nad ever noticed down there. He promises to write
them before.
D. Lott at Holtvllle. Call. Mrs. Lott
She is visit-
Jul. ns. .11, one ot the hailing .aimers illB tnis county. She sent us two
and stackmun in Auu.-aln county, Mo., Oiv-dol!ar hills of Mexican monev.
Iii!, I in a load of good butcher hogs f,.,m, ,ott- ( j ,,ute a curfo.
ol medium weight. 74 head that av-Ve value it. However, according
'raijed 241 lbs. which sold at $10.60 to Mr. Scott at the Chautauqua the
which wa.i the top of the market , oter day I'ncle Sam will only pay
and '.h - were ihe" only hogs here to- two cents on the dollar for it. Your
day at the top of the market. Mr. .i:M, le will not get It, our "Two Mex
Ji.hiisi.n has been a regular patron leans.' No! The money's ours
of this maket for a good many years. ( nf,p 8 nPVer to forget a good fel-
Six inspectors from the experiment ; low like J- D- I-ott-.
lotion of the University of Missou-J A string i,f steers conditioned by
ri arc scon to start 0:1 their yearly Brown & Harrison of Audrain county
:ill collection of samples of rertll- wt.re disposed of Monday on the 8iJ
lzers ub'ju i).- mikuui 1 iBiunrin. o--.uis maiKei at j.Ji, tne top price
much fertilizer Is now being used in f,,,. -tiK day. saya the Live Stock Re
the state that It has become necessa-! pone.-. There were 38 head that av
:y to pmtuci the farmers from poor'eri,grd 1!7C. pounds and sold to
and adulterated g'iods. To do this SwTt -.('o. Both Mr. Brown and
(he Missouri Fertilizer Law provides 1 jj,., Hairis.i: accompanied the ship
that all fertilisers oxerert for sal in . n)'iit. "The e-.ltte made us money."
Missouri should be registered at the Paj,i m. A Brown to a Reporter rep-
rxperiment station; that reglstra-. resolutive. "1 bought them last
Hon must include a guaranteed cheni-1 January and wintered them up un
Ict'.l .composition which, together I m uic n.h of April on silage and
with a regulation tag, must be on 'corn fodder. Then I commenced
very packugu of Ihe fertilizer; und' .otli a ration of shelled corn and
that the agricultural experiment sta-, champion mclas-vs feed. Thev
. .1 XKW HOSPITAL.
A Vn Building, Perhaps, to Re
Kreeted en the Wlllurd Potts Prop
erty on South Western Avenue.
Most likely Mexico is to have a
new hospital, and it will be put on
s sure financial footing. Citizens nre
hacking a plan to erect a two-Btory
brick structure on the Wl'.lard Potts
.round on South Western Avenue.
The .hospital will be owned and man
aged by a corporation. The follow
!ii!; have subscribed for stock:
l)r. Paul K. Coil. Willard Potts.
Or. J. F. Jolley, Dr. Fred Griffin, Dr.
H. T. Gibus, Fred A. Morris, Charles
P. Malor.e. H. D. Llewellyn, Sam
Morrij. J. C. King. J. F. Wilkins, C.
F. Clark. C. A. Barnes. W. W. Pol-
lock. Or. G. F. Toalson, P. H. Cullen,
C. H. Carpenter, Dr. R. C. Strode,
WiJIiam J. Porawskl.
window to rest.
"Hello. Brother Stingum." s-aid
Red Squirrel. for when a fellow
Is lonesome he will talk to anybody. I Possum.
"What do you du with so many spi-1 Red SquiiTel said, "My, how I
ders?" "Why." he exclaimed Broth-would hate for people to know me
er Stingum, "I am surprised at by my dirty face."
you. Red Squirrel. I catch these spi- As the little animals walked down
ders for my baby darlings to tai. ' the buck-bush patch talking. Old Dr.
You know Baby Wasp is ln.ii hed . Owl said to his wife: "I cau always
in the little mud house s:uck to the : tell which boys study most without
ceiling. I seal th" spider an with ever looking in the school-room. The
my darlings, r.:.i' v.!:.;- my babies boys who study ar.ays have clean
open tlulr eye there'j a vio.1 dinner faces and finger nails trimmed, and
waiting for them. Of course it is a the girls have' on nice, clean dresses
little hard onu the spiders but you and hair combed. recause their
Juot ought to see my darlings." ; teacher loves to see them that way.
'But what makes you look so They ought to be good to a lidle
lonesome?" Red Squirrel asked t teacher who rides two miles horse-
Stlngum Wasp. hack and receives i40 per month
Well, you see." said Red Squlrr-! when she does enough work to get
rel. "my little friend Tommle is $90." says Dr. Owl. because I heard
such a nloe little fellow, and I
haven't seen hlra for almost three
months. He is so kind to Little Sis
te. He helps her over the mud-
puddles and temes an;
like she was a queen."
Tomniie's father say go, and he is a
mighty fine man."
"Yes, he is." replied Sister Owl.
"Hut Doctor, w ill you please watch.
treats her j the Owl Buhies while I go to catch a
mouse, ard don't dose them with
"She is a little queen." answered green piiis for medicine is made for
Stlngumv.asp Ti:e little folks of other people's babies, not ours."
CC.fXTY SClllli.I.S WILL
1IAVK VAItin) KXIIMIITS.
genera! display will toe awarded the
first prize of SJ0 and the second and
1 best will receive $20 and $10
respectively. ,
Bridge oes Down.
The ctee! bridge over Fisaf Brauch.
northwest of Mexico, collapsed Mon
day as Baldwin & Frathing, of Ful
Mn. were passing over it with their
"ireihing machine. Everything
tumbled into (he creek, but nobody
hurt.
MUiMiurl State Fair Oiler Premiums '
For All School Work.
Family Reunion.
The corn crops with tne Message a letter for publication
1
but ver' few exceptions, are very BOon.
The Audrain farmer.
promising. - j , g g)l0rt nole (rom our
ouelit to feef tfhBt h8 iB tn tne wlm . , . , M -..,. .t
ougni 10 teei t 1 w lgnn gynp frlen1 j. n. Cross, at
this year. , ., r-oiif Mr Cross Is well-re-
He" Is one of
, THE R. R. flTRIKK.
Kver thing Is holding toll until next
Monday, when everything w.'U be off
sure enough, declare the strikers. I'
tlielr wishes are not wanted. Presl-1
dent Wilson liua appealed to Cong
rcwa.
Keyes. Calif.
Inicmbered In Mexico.
THE WEATHER. ,
Mj, It's still cool. The (herinome
ter t down to 43 Sunday morning,
but It's warming up again.
those fellows who says he would
rather wear out than rust out. He Is
a hard worker. In his little town ha
seems to be storekeeper, postmaster
tnd express agent , In the latter line
he say- his receipts ' running
j$l,f00 a month. He ha thrne feg
jlllar helpers and Ihe buslnens keeps
1 1 ti em all on tne jump an me uiuu.
The emits family are mighty flue
folks as everybody back here In the
old home county knows,
Ray Gregory has returned from a
TlsH In Kansas City.
The Athletics vs. tbe Nurserymen
next Sunday. ' v
Clark Glbbs will attend tvchool la
.Dlllliigs. Mont., tula winter, jet,
George Watts and his mother, of
Whltlne, Indiana, are In Mexico on
a visit to relatives.
The CKy Council Monday night or
awe two new alA walks on Cole
T '
tion must collect and analyze samples
of fertilizers used by Ihe farmers.
No rule can he laid down for fili
ng the silo (luring a year or snort
rainfall, says C. H. Eckles of the
Missouri C'd'ege of Agriculture.
When the corn matures normally
he lime to put It in the silo is
when the kernels are dented and
glazed but the kernel still soft
enough so It may be broken with the
numb nail. At this time the husks
will generally be turning yellow at
the end of the ear. Corn may be put
in after It Is almost dry If enough
water is added. Where corn is in-
lured by the drouth it should be al
lowed to stand as long as there is
any hope at all of its getting rain
to complete its growth. If it begins
to die it should hv put 111 the silo,
as by this means whut feud value it
contains will be saved. If It cannot
he put Into the silo just then it may
be shocked, and put tn t8r, Of
course If Is not as Root as thftt mail"
at the usual time. When filling the
silo remember that slings spoilt If
too dry or the air Is not expelled by
thoro tramping. The tendency of
the lata years has been to put In the
silo too dry. It aoould be moist
gained fairly
irpri.-ed to
lie in:'
well,
learn
kit today.
1 was rather
that we topped
is I did not feed
these cattle with the lnt"ntions of
-nuking them toppers."
Rev. Henry Neighbours Is attend
ing Annual Conference of the M. E
Church South In Fayette this week.
j. W, Squires has bought ihe T.
Rowe home on Woodlawn.
Tho Message will resume Its old
time form next week of eight pages.
That serial story Is to be concluded
too.
Train Derailed.
A lirol.cn rail oil the C. & A. Just
enst of Francis caused the derail
ment of a freight train Tuesday
morning. None ot the train crew sifled aiierding to
were hurt.
teachers that are employed so that
tile little m'liool house In the country
The Mexico Athletics will cross that litis only one teacher to teach all
bats with the Louisiana Nurserymen of Uic iadi con.ieie only with
next Sunday at 3-.00 p. mM at Colo- .schools f (he same class. The
ninl Park. Tho battery tor Louiai-1 schools ul the darger cities that have
ana: Heller and Thomas; for Mex- j the latest qutpiuent have been plaoed
Ico: Kistler and Thomas. This will In a clas ' heuuHv aa (hey are
he a good game. Coma and see it. expected (4 do more advanced work.
Rev. Isoni Roberts, of Oklahoma
City. Okla.. called 011 the Message
the ether day. He murried ,Vis
Katherinc Hinde. of Mexico, some
r boys at..! girls are' va 13 al- Hher Roberta ha', on
visiting his sister. Mrs. Jim Surber,
north of Thompson.
There was a family reunion a1, ihe
Eui'ber home recently when two
brothers from Illinois wore present .
Dr. It. C. Robeitb, of Lincoln. III.,
and Dr. Arthur Roberts, of Taylor
vilie. 111. The Roberts family are
'ne people. They were reared in
(his part of Missouri and scores ot
friends here are always glad to me(
(hem.
School work, starting from the
time that the six-year-old yonugft.r
is just learning to s.ral! h.s name in
big round letttrs; rpe. imeus of the
work that the c
doing in the grade schools, the ef
fort of the high school student and
finally tiu- wi rk that it doue in the
state schools of bight r education, the
normal schools and the universities
will all I"' on display in the Art
Hiiiliiini; st the M.ssourt State Fair
this year. 1
The spools ni the stale are clas-
the number of
The next game will he with Hanni
bal, on Septeiflliu 10th.
Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Smithey of this
city have returned homo from a
week's visit with the faiully of Y-
S. Siullliey near Stroller, Monroe
county.
The Message haa a most Interest
ing letter from Rex 8. Duncan in the
Philippine Islands which we shall
publish nex( week, ika Is the son of
Sam Duncan of (his city and Is a sol
dier boy In the Philippines.
Mr. and Mrs. C. V. ThomH ' 8
Louis are guests uf feladves In (his
city.
Richard Porter of Paris, Mo., was
his mother here,
Hut the tountry schools have plen
ty of preTfom to try for. and many
schools ntve new pictures on the
walls sail aew equipment In the play
ground bought with (he money that
was won st the Slaw Fair at Sdtni
There re premiums tkt yiuly the
couutry boy can atrivQ for. Mounted
colleetiou, ut lh v,rluua wood th,
grow In Missouri, roevhft ut rt
two liriiiu mii mw seels, mounts, oj tVju uiach inwy
Justice R. H. Hooton's court Tu-'ul! of lns, morB off
flay, one IBO ami tne oiner ike. ou
tlS charge pf disturbing tha peaca.
er0. to attract the .ountrj muut.
In the lierry ue, ftrlw r 0.
r4 lr In b y on bow q
corn, and tar (b tpi. '
for the bert essay on ih1 ,ery
ticai subject ot the beat way to ar.
ranae ths . in. . ....
In Mexico Wednesday the guest of dauglHer of Mrs. B. A. Thornburgh ' . . Jil.. the farm
sa v ucu, jr
-T e "'T HWi
They are coiini)ed (q tia county Jai.
Miss Allhe 0tele of Havana, It!.,
will attend Hardin College thru the
coming year. Misa Steele la a graud-l
of this city.
Audrain's School AM.
Of the $1,951,042.27 of st ite funds
appropriated throughout the state
for public school purposes, Audraiu
county will receive 110,8S.S. Th
aura total of the fund repremnU -one-
thlrnl o( the ordinary recolta Into'
the slate revenue fund Tor the school
year cudU June 30, ll.
Of thla sum 224,6iJ will g.j for
rural school aid.. Tlits fund la grow
ing each year as tbe various rural
school districts In the state are taking
advantage oft he law which allow
(hew to Improve their Institution
they receive a certain tai.
and rtH-.tv, ,j trumi, h wua
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $
$ Mexico Savings Bank $
5 44th Year in Business $
$ Capital Stock. $150,000 $
$ w. W. FRY, President. S
$ J. ti. JESSE, Cashier. $
$$$$$ $$$$!
