normal School,
TfflBIJNE
PHE
WJ
H H
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. i
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULa
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU, i i i
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU MISSOURI, AUGUST 31. 1916.
NUMBER 34.
VOL. XY
STRIKEBREAKERS
AT CHAFFEE WILL
OPERATE iTKAINS
Sixty Railroad Men Ready to
Supplant Union JVorkers .
Next Monday.
FRISCO EMPLOYING
MEN TO BE GUARDS
Shoe Factory Will Run Four Days
After Strike, Manager
Smith Says.
The Frisco Railroad has begun mak
ing arrangements to operate trains
after r.ext Monday, the date set for the
general railroad strike. It became
known yesterday that this railroad has
been quietly employing strike break
eers for several weeks in anticipation
of the walkout of the union men.
The Frisco is constructing quarters
at Chaffee, Mo., for the strikebreakers
to live in during the early days of
trouble. Sixty men. Frisco officials
say, are now in Chaffee, ready to go
to work as soon as the union men
walk out.
As the Frisco officials state that all
of the men employed as strikebreak
ers are experienced railroad men, it is
presumed that they have obtained
these workmen from the small branch
lines, the employes of which are not
members of the organized branches of
trainmen.
The Frisco, during the past few
days, has employed a number of men
in Cape Girardeau to serve as guards
after next Monday. One of the men
who obtained one of these positions
yesterday stated that his salary was to
be $90 per month.
It has not been learned whether the
Frisco plans to place armed guards on
each train or not, but they will be sta
tioned at various points along the
road.
Local members of the Brotherhoods
do not anticipate much trouble for
Cape Girardeau. The clashes between
the union men and the strikebreakers
will take place, the union men say, at
division points, where the strikebreak
ers will take charge of the trains.
The local union trainmen have aban
doned hope of a settlement of the trou
ble, but they do not appear to be con
rprm d over the imnendine strike. All
union men interviewed by The Tribune
state that they will quit work next
Monday morning, but the Frisco offi
cials have stated repeatedly during the
past few days that four engineers, liv
ing in the Cape and vicinity, and three
conductors have announced their in
tentions of remaining with the com
pany. The names of these men were
not divulged.
It likewise became known in the
Cape last night that five engineers liv
ing in Chaffee have withdrawn as
members of their order and intend to
remain loyal to the road.
The trainmen who are preparing to
strike according to their union m-
TRAINMEN TELL
OF RIVER FIRE;
MY BE STEAMER
Saw Blaze at Water's Edge
j;at Devil's Island 5 Miles
'North of Cape.
STACKER LEE, LEFT
CAPE 1 HOUR BEFORE
Confirmation Lacking of Vessel's
Destruction and May be
Straw Stack.
structions. point out that the four or
1! 5.000.000 with which to
conduct a strike.
In distributing this amount in strike
benefits, the following schedules have
been announced to the men it became
known. The engineers and conduc
tors are to receive $40 a month each
gnH the firemen and brakemen $30
Mrh. Under this apportionment, it is
.i,..,iitl that the 400.000 men could
clIV UIUV-m - i
hold out but little more than one
month.
Managers and executives of leading
industrial concerns in the Cape for the
last few days have been making every
effort to prepare themselves the best
they may for a strike. Virtually all
these men now look forward to a
strike Monday without a chance at a
settlement in the meantime.
D. B. Smith, superintendent of the
Shoe factory, last night said that his
plant would last four days after a
general tie-up of fuel and raw ma
terials consequent upon the strike.
The shoe factory makes its own power
and unless coal supplies were furmsn
ed, the shut-down would be certain to
come, letting several hundred men and
women out of employment.
" A. M. Tinsley, manager of the pub
lic utilities company, is optimistic over
the effects of a strike m the Cape.
He declared that his company has 1000
tnnc of coke on hand that may be util
ized in furnishing ligh tand power and
pumping water for 12 days without re-
ulenishiner the supplies,
The gas supply will last for 20
days, he said, because the company has
, on hand a supply of gas coal grea
enough to hold out that long.
A fire that is believed to have de
stroyed a steamboat near the Illinois
side of the river and opposite the mile
post on the Fisco five miles north of
the Cape, last night was reported in
the Cape by the train crew of the
Chaffee Accommodation as they pass
ed through the Cape.
Although up to an early hour this
morning no definite advices could be
obtained, it was believed the flames
might have destroyed either the
steamer Stacker Lee, a packet running
between St. Louis, or a quarter boat
of the Government fleet which is lying
near Devil's Island about four miles
upstream from the Cape.
Attempts by The Tribune and Irvin
Albert, boat agent, to get telephone
communication with anyone living in
the vicinity of the reported fire and on
the Missouri side of the river, early
this morning were ineffectual. Mr. Al
bert declared he felt confident that had
a boat been fired, he would have been
advised even from the other side of the
river by midnight.
The steamer Stacker Lee left the
Cape, bound for St. Louis, at 9 o'clock
last night. The Chaffee Accommoda
tion passed opposite Devil's Island at
about 10:25, which it is estimated
would have given the Stacker Lee time
to get that far upstream.
The firemen of the accommodation
declared when he arrived in the Cape,
that he had not seen any other boat
on the river all the way down from
Grand Tower. As his train approach
ed the 126-mile post, which is but five
miles out of the Cape, he said he no
ticed what appeared to him to be a
small blaze burning across the river.
He called the attention of his engi
neer to the fire and as the train pulled
abreast the fire, they declared the
flames rolled upward in a large volume
and lighted the river for many yards
around.
The fire seemed to be on a boat, they
said, the exact description of which
they were unable to make out, and the
boat seemed to be hugging the shore
on the opposite side. They said they
knew the fire was on the river by rea
son of the fact that they could see the
reflection of the blaze on the surface of
the water.
They watched it after the train had
passed the point and on their arrival
in the Cape they reported it to rail
road and express officials here.
At the same time, many persons on
the riverfront in the Cape saw a large
fire burning, which they believed to be-
a straw or hay stack acoss the river.
The flames made a light that was
easily seen from the Frisco depot and
thP fire seemed to be northeast of the
Cane, which would locate it in about
the location given by the train crew.
Conductor Riggs of the Memphis
. . 11 1.1. Z . wmummff
tain, on his arrival nere im mui
Catholics Marching to New York Cathedral,
Where Rare Celebration Was Held Last Week
To open the fifteenth annual convvrntioa of the Anicrican Federation of Catholic Societies in Xew Tort pon
tifical mnss was celebrated in St. rntrlck's cathednd. three cardinals and the ipostolic delegate beins trresent.
The photograph shows the procession entering the cathedral.
DEMOCRATS TO FILL
CTY. TICKET TODAY
Dearmont Drafted for Prosecut
ing Atty., George Ford
for Treasurer.
PARADE STRIKE IS
AVERTED BY CLUB
Committee Will Meet Advanced
Price by Going Down
Line for Funds.
at 1 :lf a. m.. declared that he sat be
side a window on the river side of the
tain and gazed out the window from
above Grand Tower.. He said that he
did not remember having seen a
steamboat on the river all the way
down till he had arrived a few miles
from the Cape.
The train then passed a steamer go
ing northward, which was the Cape
Girardeau that left the - Cape alter
midnight.
He said ht did not see any fire at
the 126-mile post. The fireman on
Riggs' train declared that he saw but
one steamboat on the river, the one
passed a few minutes before the
train's arrival in the Cape.
The Democrataic County Central
Committee will meet this afternoon at
Jackson for the purpose of filling out
the party's county ticket and political
activity among the leaders in the" last
few days lias indicated that the com
mittee will have to resort to conscrip
tion in order to get men to place their
names on the ticket.
The job as a Democratic candidate is
goin,x begging, but by last night, lead
ers in the party ranks declared they
had a '"slate" framed that they be
lieve will stick till this afternoon when
they will put it over and proceed to get
into the campaign.
After repeated refusals and after
all available timber had been impor
tuned to ran, it was announced yes
terday K. L. Dearmont will be drafted
to run against J. Henry Caruthcrs for
prosecuting attorney.
Dearmont has often declared that he
does not desire to get into the cam
paign. He was defeated for commit
teeman in the Cape by Ben Vinyard.
However, one of the men who urged
his race for committeeman, Postmast
er T. J. Juden, yesterday said that
(Dearmont has agreed to let his name
be used.
T. D. Hines of Jackson was ap
proached but he declined to become en
gaged in the campaign, whereupon
Dpnrniont was called unon to fill in
the gap.
It also became known yesterday that
Chairman C. C. Oliver has been lin
ing up a man to oppose J. H. C. Kerst
ner in his race for county treasurer.
George Ford, a rural route mail car
rier, who lives at Oak Ridge, will get
his hat into the ring for that job.
Several other small vacancies are to
e filled on the county ticket. Many
constables will have to be drafted.
TURKEY DECLARES
WAR ON RUMANIA
Berlin Reports Progress for Ger
mans Against French
and English.
15,000
WILLQU
FORST
SOLDIERS
KIKE D1TY
War Department Announces vThat
Troops Will Be Sent Back to
Various States at Once by Gen.
Funston.
RAILROADS AND EMPLOYES ARE
READY FOR TUG OF WAR MONDAY
j
HERE'S A BIG ONE
FROM BEDFORD SPRINGS
Bedford Springs, Pa., Aug. SO.
When E. S. Kuhn, . Pittsburg golfer,
drove from a tree here, his ball zip
ped into a pond hazard and "beaned'
a four pound carp. The caddie cap
tured the fish and took it home for his
dinner.
HAGER FUNERAL TODAY
Woman Who Died in South Cape to
Bo Buried at 10 O'clock this Morning.
The funeral of Mrs. Marie Elizabeth
Hager of Chaffee, who died early yes
terday morning at the home of her
parents in South Cape, will be held at
10 o'clock this morning when services
will be conducted at St. Vincent's
Church and burial will be in St. Mary's
Cemetery.
Mrs. Hager was the wife of C. A.
Hagor who works at Chaffee. About
a month ago she came to the Cape to
visit with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
P. C. Knott, and two weeks ago was
taken to the hospital with a serious at
tack of illness.
She remained at the hospital several
days, and when she failed to recover,
she was removed to her parent s home.
She became worse rapidly and the end
ramp vesterdav at 4:10 a. m. She is
- " r w
survived also by an infant daughter.
The threatened strike of the mystic
Capaha parade was averted last night
at a joint session of the Commercial
Club and the special paradefinancej
committee when the committee deter
mined to meet the advanced cost of
the parade by going down the line for
the money.
A canvass for parade contributions
will be conducted today by Claude
Speak, Chris Freeman, G. L. Meyer
and R. E. L. Lamkin in which they will
endeavor not to overlook anyone. New
contributions as well as increases for
standing contributions already made,
will be solicited.
The parade fund now has more than
$1100 to its credit and according to the
estimates made last night it will be
necessary to obtain $1500.
Mr. Meyer today will communicate
with the coslumers in St. Louis, ask
ing them to send a man to the Cape
at once to commence building the
floats. The floats this year have been
outlined to follow a definite scheme
that will depict an early history- of
Cape Girardeau.
Persons in the Cape who wish to
take part in the parade are asked 'to
communicate with any member of the
parade committee or to see the sec
retary of the commercial club. It will
be necessary to enlist a large number
of horsemen for the parade and any
one who can take a part and furnish
his mount should communicate with
the parade managers soon.
Likewise those who will man the
floats are asked to communicate with
the managers as well as thofce who
will aid in trimming the floats.
The plans that have been outlined
for the various floats in the pageant
today will be submitted to Louis Houck
for final suggestions concerning the
historic accuracy and in completing
hte arrangement of the features. ,
Schuchert's band will be at the head
of the parade and it is forecasted that
the pageant will be a mile in length
London, Aug. "0. Turkey today de
clared war on Rumania, and joined her
Teutonic allies in repulsing the drive
(Of the new foe. The news of Turkey's
Action was. received - simultaneously
with the announcements from Buchar
est and Vienna that the Rumanians
were making wide inroads upon Tran
sylvanian soil. Vienna announces the
withdrawal of her troops from the Ru
manian front.
Rome, Aug. "0. A new Austro-
Hungarian offensive against the Ital
ians has started, it was officially learn
ed today.
London, Aug. SO. The lull on the
Somme front on account of severe
r.toims continue. No action of a large
scale was madj today. The German
official statement tonight reports the
defeat of a French ritack on the Ver
iun front.
Berlin, Aug. Sf. The official state
ment from headquarters in Fmace re
ports a decisive defeat for the French.
Several British attacks in the Somme
district were also repulsed by the Ger
mans. The British and French actions
during the past week have diminished
to such an extent that the German
newspapers have spoken of it as the
"inoffensive offensive."
Supply of Foodstuff Now Being
Cut Off From Large Cities Wil
son and Congress Still Trying to
Adjust the Trouble.
Washington, Aug. 00. The War Department tonight announced that Gen.
Funston had directed the return to various state mobilization camps the regi
ments from New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Illinois, Missouri, California,
Oregon, Washington and Louisiana, which total 15.000 men. ,
While the War Department did not go into details explaining the order
to distribute the soldiers over the various states, it is understood that the men
are going to be used to guard railroad trains in the event the strike is not
averted next Monday.
It has been learned that the Government is going to use all the force
at its command to keep the trains running. With the return of the 1.1,000
troopers, it is said that there will be ample soldiers in the various states
to take care of the situation.
Only a small percentage of the various National Guards were ordered
lo the Mexican border, and those who have been stationed at the state head
quarters have been training constantly since they were ordered to mobilize.
The War Department stated tonight that the departure of the 15,000
men from the border would not be missed. It is not known whether the Gov
ernment has started to move the troops or not.
Washington, Aug. SO. The combined efforts of President Wilson and
Congress failed today to get the Brotherhood leaders to postpone the general
strike ordered for next Monday. Congress appears to be seriously divided.
Democratic leaders agree that only part of the Wilson program can be enacted.
Both employers and employes have taken steps to combat many important
features of the proposed remedial laws. The adjournment of Congress, which
was scheduled to take plate this week, will be continued indefinitely, leaders
stated today.
The Interstate Commerce Commission will begin a hearing tomorrow
cn measures proposed by President Wilson. The Brotherhoods and Railroad
executives as well as the shippers will have three hours each to present their
sides of the strike, which effects both passenger and service.
Unorganized railroad men informed the White House today that unless
they were included in the proposed legislation, they would organize and make
demands.
The railroad heads stated tonight that they favored legislation, but an
nounced they wanted it all in their favor or they would refuse to accept any.
Washington, Aug. SO. All railroads J sengers that unless they reach their
are preparing for the strike next Mon- destinations by Sunday night they
day. Perishable freight is no longer would be subjected to "perplexing de-
being received, which means that the! lays."
WILL ADDRESS TEACHERS
It will be brilliantly illuminated along
the route by red torch lights
DRAG LINE BREAKS DOWN
Cane Men Labor All Might to Kepair
Ditch-Digging Machine.
Theodore Kipping Goes to Ste. Gene
vieve and Sister to Perryville.
Theodore Kipping early this morn-
mg departed ior cue. wcnevieve, wntre
he will attend a teachers' meeting and
deliver an address on the subject: Dis
trict School Fairs and Exhibits.
His sister, Miss Concordia Kipping
of West William street, yesterday de
parted fro. Perryville where she will
attend a teachers' meeting today and
tomorrow.
shipments of food supplies into the
large cities has been discontinued.
Announcements issued by nearly all
of the railroads in the country state
Big manufacturers and business
houses swamped telegraph companies
with messages urging that their ship
ments be rushed. Many of them au-
that they will arm their employes, but j thorized sending their orders by ex
the men will be warned not to shoot j press. Several large commercial hous
unless attacked or interfered with. The j es have already recalled their travel
interference with Interstate Commerce ! ing representatives.
DILLON HAS EYE ON
MOHA-COX WINNER
New York, Aug. 30. Jack Dillon
probably will fight the winner of the
Joe Cox-Bob Moha battle. The date
will be September 1. The Broadway
Sporting Club has contracted for Dil
lon to fight in its arena on that date.
Moha is doing a "come-back" after a
fairly long retirement. Cox, formerly
Dillon's sparring partner, claims he
forced Jess Willard to miit in a match
some years ago.
A breakdown which occurred late
yesterday on one of the big ditch-dig
irinsr niachines on the drag line near
Ranney'g switch tied up the work and
may result in a'delay with the work
today.
Asa Sherrill, Edward Rudert, Char
les Evans and Lynn Swan late yester
day afternoon motored from the Park
auto garage to the scene of the break
down and remained at the job all
night.
BASEBALL SCORES
National.
Boston 1-6; Pittsburg 0-7.
Brooklyn 4; St. Louis 16.
Philadelphia 0; Chicago 2.
-New York 6; Cincinnati 5.
American.
Detroit 2; New York 5.
; Chicago 7; Philadelphia 3.
St Louis 0; Boston 4.
Cleveland 1; Washington 3.
will invoke the aid of the Federal Gov
ernvent to check it, it became known
tonignr.
Members of the Brotherhoods, who
are on duty when 7 o'clock Monday
morning comes, will run their trains
into the roundhouse and quit work.
Those who are off duty have been no
tified not to report for work. The
strikers will hold meetings twice daily
at each division point to check up the
absent members.
The railroads are listing the em
ployes who have announced they will
remain loyal to the companies and are
hiring new men. While the railroads
admit they will not be able to furnish
first-class service after next Monday,
they insist they will be able to main
tain a partial freight and passenger
service.
- Chicago, Aug. SO. Railroads of the
nation rushed preparations today to
enforce the embargo on perishable
freight. Shipments of livestock and
perishables were refused by some
roads today; others issued warnings
that perishable freight, which cannot
reach it3 destination by Saturday, will
not be accepted.
From Chicago, the greatest railroad
center of the country, orders were
flashed to ticket agents to inform pas-
Operating officials of many of the
big railway systems speeded up plans
to meet the strike situation and pri
vate detective agencies engaged to em
ploy additional help were urged to
more activity. Physical examination
of thousands of former railroad men
who, officials said, are willing to re
turn to work, was hastened.
Associated Press dispatches from all
parts of the country indicated that
within 48 hours, unless a delay in the
strike is ordered, embargo orders will
be effective on practically every rail
road in the country.
What this means to traffic and reve
nues is said bv. railroad men to be
shown by the statement of an official
of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe,
which announced an embargo on live
stock and perishable freight last night.
The official said that it would reduce
the traffic of the road one third.
Railroad men hoped that many mem
bers of the brotherhood would not
obey the strike order. In fact, it was
rumored that little if any pressure
would be brought to bear on the older
generation of engineers and conduc
tors whose seniority ha3 placed them
in well-paid positions, many of them
with pensioned leisure not far away.
