FNTY
0; .
VOLUME XIV.
OOOKEVILLE. TENNESSEE, THUKSDAY. AUGUST 31. 1916
NUMBER 35
POTMiM
CO
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
The trachoma hospital located at
Tasewell In Claiborne county waa
. opened and dedicated last Friday,
A board of trade haa been organised
in Harrlman, starting with an lntitial
enrollment of fifty-nine members.
.' ' H. C. Walters, secretary of the Nash-
vine street Kailway company, has pur
chased the Lebanon Democrat Har
din W. Ragley, of Nashville, will be
editor.
Fifteen Clarksville "bootleggers'
who were fined $5 each were put to
work on the streets cleaning up the
city witk pick and shovel.
. umciai reports, for the month o!
June show there were w twenty-nine
eases of Infantile paralysis reported In
the state. There are at present eleven
known cases. v
A shell In an old rusty revolver In
the hands of an Appalachia boy ex-
- pioaea Knocking out the eye of his 8
year-old - brother, Frances Strong, at
Bristol, Tenn. 1 ;
The proceeds of a double-header be
tween the Birmingham and . Chatta
nooga teams were donated to the Chat-
. tanooga woman suffrage organization,
icach team won a game.; ,. ;
, J. N. Owens, a labor organiser, has
sued the Memphis street railway for
i6,ooo, charging that he was assaulted
by an, employe of the company during
in recent strike. . ';.
- The opening date of the. Cookeyille
Polytechnic institute has , been pos
poned from September 4 to September
14 on account of one of the buildings
neing in an unfinished condition.
v An election will be held' fn- Newnort
August 30 for the purpose of Voting
tor or against the proposed' issuance
of 16,50 bonds with which to pur-
cnase a site .for. a high school.
John Smith, aged about 19 years, ol
enarpa uap, near Knoxville.was in
. stantly willed during, an electrical
Storm, when lightning struck a pitch
fork In his hands. - . .
While working at a sawmill Thomas
Arnold, the 18-year-old son of the late
Thomas Arnold of Limestone creek,
was caught In a cog-wheel ' and ' so
badly mangled that he died two hours
: later. ,
The agricultural department of the
- East Tennessee Division fair Is plan
. nlng to put on an exhibit at the ex
position that will give a complete dis
play of every product raised on the
. farm.' . ; . , ' .
City Physician M. M. Pearson, of
Bristol, has Issued a warning in re
gard to Infantile paralysis, saying that
southern people have not awakened to
the danger of an epidemic of the dread
disease.' , - ,
Captain Charles S. Jackson, 5 years
old, master of the TJ..S. snagboat in
Memphis for 14 years and a veteran
pilot, killed himself In Memphis by
, firing a bullet through his head. He
tad been In 111 health.
Liquor sealers doing business on the
Virginia side of Bristol are taking op
tioas on buildings in Tennessee in an
ticipation of Virginia going dry in
November. They expect to conduct an
interstate business.
. A charter has been granted tor the
building of a fire-proof museum at
Naahvllle to perpetuate the memory of
B. A. Cunningham, and In which "to
: store Confederate maps, gags and
other things of historical interest.
The department of health of Tenn
essee has joined handswlth the New
.. York and government health authori
ties In the effort to control the lhfan-
tile paralysis epidemic in New York
city and at the same time isolate the
germ of the disease. .
- Knoxville leads other large southern
' cities In the number of enlistments per
1,000 population, according to a report
by the recruiting officials. The rank of
the cities Is: Knoxville, 25 per cent;
Chattanooga, 16 per cent; Memphis, 7
.' per centfl .;' - v-. .:'';
Bob Bucktror, accused of "bootleg
ging,'' leaped from a window In Judge
Young's court at Clarksville while
court officers and attorneys were busy
In consultation, ; The jump of twelve
feet took him to a roof below and an-
other of fifteen feet" took him to the
' ground. ; x ',,;
A . 126,000,1 planing mill, a foundry
with a capital stock of $10,000 and
another large' addition to the Cleve
land chair factory are among the new
enterprises for Cleveland, all now In
course of construction, work having
commenced on each at about the same
time a few days ago.
Several new cases of Infantile par
alysis having developed In Memphis,
' President J. L. Andrews,, of the city
" board of health has bad guards placed
on all trains to prevent babies from
being brought into Memphis from the
Infected districts. A strict quarantine
has been made against New York city.
. Mrs. Topher Smith exhibited in
Clarksville a quantity of strawberries,
a sample from her ever-bearing va
riety.' Berry growers, it seems, are be
ginning to realise that it is possible to
prolong the strawberry season almost
indefinitely by the judicious raising of
the proper varieties. .
"Villa or Carrania?" If you
answer the bootlegger by saying
"Villa" you will get a half pint
flask of whiskey. If you say "Carranza"
you will get a ha?f pint of gin. The
discovery was made in , Memphis
by a city detective who get the
secret from a blind tiger patron. He
tried It on a suspected bootlegger aid,
finding it worked, arrested the man.
A. E. Quarles, of New York, presi
dent and director of the department
of game breeding and preserving of
the American Game Protective Asso
ciation, will come to Tennessee Aug
ust 15 to confer with State Game and
Fish Warden W. D. Howser in regard
to the establishment of the state game
preserve.
Altogether 176 petitions for bank
ruptcy have been Died with the United
States District Court Clerk at Knox
ville during the past five and one-half
months. Many vocations are repre
sented' by the petitioners. A large
number of them are laborers, though
the list- also includes merchants,
professional men, business men and
tillers of the soil. .
A decree ordering the acceptance of
the $26,000 compromise offer of the
directors of the Knoxville Bonk and
Trust Company, covering the liabilities
of the directors in connection with the
failure of this bank in 1912, was hand
ed down by Chancellor Wright at
Knoxville, who regarded this as the
best offer obtainable.
A committee of nine three bishops,
three ministers and three laymen 'of
the M. E. Church, 'South met at Tate
Springs and named a' commission of
25 representative members of the de
nomination to confer with a similar
commission from the Methodist Epis
copal Church to take up the question
ft unity of the two branches of Meth
odism. , .. , .
Colonel J. Perry Fyffe, recruiting
officer for the new First Tennessee
Regiment, ' expects that the order of
mobilization - would ' probably be ' re
ceived this week. General Rogan has
recommended that the units of the
new regiment he mobilized at Fort
Oglethorpe on account of the superior
facilities for organization and train
ing afforded the troops.
R. A. Clifford, of Chattanooga, has
received word of the death of, bis
brother, Ca.italn Bert Clifford, of the
Second South African Infantry.' British
army, who fell July 10 while leading
a gallant charge on a German trench.
Captain Clifford was shot through the
head, and another bullet penetrated his
lungs. He died July 19 in a French
hospital at Rouen. . '
J. Vi Andrews, president of the Mem
phis Board" o Health, has Issued a
strict order abolishing the old-fash-,
ioned church communion cupa. He
said so many persona sipping mm
the same cup was a spreader of dis-;
easeespecially typhoid fever. He also , by tes t0 erect monuments in the i special invitation is given to outsid
ordered the abolishment of church , hearts of chUdren. Kate Douglas lw to be with us that day. Plenty
drinking cups and forced churches to
place individual ones In their placet.:
The supreme court handed down an
opinion removing J. A. Relchman, of
Memphis, as sheriff of Shelby county,
under the ouster act of 1915. The de
cision in the chancery court had been
in favor of Relchman. The principal
charge against the sheriff was failure
to enforce the liquor laws. Reich
man assumed office September 1. 1914,
for a term of two years.
Tennessee and Kentucky" tobacco
firms have won another point for the
shipment of tobacco to Germany and
Austria, members of congress from
both these states being advised by the
state' department that , the British
government will not disturb shipments
ot tobacco through , the Netherlands
Oversea trust which are necessary to
fill unfilled contracts between Ameri
can firms and the Central powers. , j
At a meeting In Nashville of the 1
general committee working to secure
the $20,000,000 government nitrates! She knows who's happy and who has
plant for Muscle Shoals, it was de-j blues.
elded to invite Hudson Maxim, famous L . v ,
inventor and Gen. Leonard Wood, of jSne .knoWB aU our "rrow and our
the U. S. army to visit Muscle Shoals ghe OWB erery gtrl W chases the
and give their, opinions as - to Its i
natural advantages as a site for such!
oo t. .nn.oj v.. k
ment " ' I
. ,. Mr. , .
- The Tannaaaea Rallrnail Pyimmlclnn
has ordered the Louisville & Nashville j
...... w.- Vw
Railroad Company to appear before ;
the commission August 25 and show
cause why it will not. receive and
transport shipments of stoves uncrated
In less than car lots. All other roads
entering Nashville, it is said, receive
uncrated stoves In less than car lot
shipments and transport them to des
tination. :., ...:, v .., , .,
The number of recruits enlisted at
Camp Rye during July totaled 295, ac
cording to the report of Lieutenant.W,
H. Hodges, camp recruiting officer.
During the first ten days of the pres
ent month 96 men have been recruited
for the national' guard. These men
come from all over the state and are
sent In by the recruiting, parties that
have been detailed to the1 larger cities
and towns of Tennessee. ,;
About 700 men spent a day working
the Memphls-to-BriatoI highway on the
mountainside between Sparta and Bon
Air. These men put In a full day of
hard work and accomplish much. Ev
ery business house in Sparta closed
its doors and the town was deslrted.
The N., C. & St. L. Railway furnished
special train from .Walling to Clifty.
This road is being put in splendid con
dition, It Is said. t
STORY HOUR
By Mrs. J. C. McOearman
It Is indeed a great pleasure to talk
to you for a little while on a subiect
so near my heart as the one assigned
me Story Hour. The very word sug
gests a beautiful picture; a group of
happy, Interested listeners and an
animated lover of children, an artist 1BB n8 oeioy. tin. uraae. miss
as it were painting pictures of inno-1 Maggie Davis. 5th. Grade. Mrs. Al
cence and beauty on the canvas of good Carlen. 6th. and 7th. Grade
the soul. . boys, Mrs. J. M. Hatfield. 6th and
The reason stories have such a Ith Grade girls' Mrs- B- - Acock
great place In my heart, is because ' Sections of 1st and 4th Grades, Miss
I love children, and children love B8sl8 Alcorn. Sections of 6th and
stories. I will not say that I have a 8th Grades, Miss Carrie Gore. 8th.
hobby, but if someone should say,Grade M; T- Carlisle,
that my hobby is children I am surej Miss Mollie' Mooneyham, who has
that I would not be offended. i served -most efficiently as 1st Grade
Committed to my own personal care
and training I have four precious
charges. The whole world of child-
ren is mine to neip to maKe nappy
and to bless.
God in his wisdom and love has
given to mothers a special and very
sweet privilege of selecting and plac-
ing the first pictures that shall adorn
the human soul. These mental pic-
tares which will either brighten and
ibild are made, often unconsciously
by the mother or the child's attend!
ant. ,
Hf ia tn Kq tnnnAoA . ittv.
er unlike the erection of a structure
of woofl or Bt0ne we muot look well
t hA fniinriaHnm TCrinnaInn la
life-long process and must be begun
nnnn nn . hmarf nrtnoinioa niH
methods are Inadequate. In order to
acquire a broad,' thorough, and prac-fMlss Alcorn has been teaching in
tlcal education many subjects must i Florida where she has given up a
be introduced early in the process, j most desirable' position in order to
Stories of the proper kind may be again connect herself with her home
rery effectively used, not only to pre- school.
sent many of' these subjects, but! Miss Carrie Gore, another of Ihe
much valuable information pertain- new teachers for this session is well
ng to the subjects will be eagerly known in Cookevllle. She is a tea
grasped and retained by th child, j cher of wide experience and splendid
Stories should be part of the equip- ability.
ment of every primary teacher, and I Many much needed improvements
of every mother. The great .craving
which children have for stories is
universal and does Indeed place
responsibility upon us. -Every race
has its - heritage of folk-lore and
myths which Is handed down from
generation to generation. Scientistsv,1
rstudy these stories with painstaking
care because they reveal the habits,
manners," and - religion of the people,
Children of two thousand years ago.
loved a story quite as much as do!
our children of today. The mer fact
that a thine has existed for so lone-'
is no proof that it is worth preserv -
ling, but the fact that stories still po-
I . . A
sseas a perrectiy iresn attraction ror
all Is indeed proof that there Is some,
thing in them of imperishable worth.
O. Stanley Hall has very fittingly
called stories the natural soul food
for children.- Mable Lee Cooper, one
of the South's best primary Instruc
tors has said that "stories are the
avenues through which the grown-up
comes in closest contact with child
We.' . 4
ft fMJJi.??
. . . inwaA w m u i.
. , j . a noQ,.tif,ii thins-
Wlggin so beautifully expressed the
sentiments of mv own heart when she '.
said that she would rather be the ps. Meeting place at new school
children's story teller than the j house on the Mine Lick road near the
Queens favorite or the Kings counsel
lor. 'y. ' -"Give
me not" scenes more charm
ing give me eyes.
To see the beauty that around me j
it..
. To see the shine of souls, see an
. gels shy, .' ' . ' .v'., - v
Among the faces of the passersby.
I do not ask for sweeter music, than
The common, dally, symphony of
man.' .' ;'n
(The above words were spoken by
Mrs. McDearman before the recent
woman's convention held in Cooke
vllle. Ed.)
THE TELEPHONE GIRL
The telephone girl Bitsstill in a chair
And listens to , voices' from . every
fillJ1 fTn th ,n n
news
boys,
she knows of our trouble and strife-
, i a
his wife. v - . - ,
.
. A, x
Knft rnnva avurr titti.. wa nra nuL
with the boys
She hears excuses which each one
emnlovs - . . . .
She knows every woman who has ai
dark path; '
She knows every man who is inclin
ed to be fast.
' '
In fact, there's a secret 'neath each
shining -curl ... r ,
Of that quite demure looking tele-.
phone girl
If the telephone girl would
ten aU
she knows,
She would turn half our friends intOMany thanks to you, all. They are;
She
Sh;Tmild leto a storT'which crow (This country is soon all going to beugel in the community where she Boswell. ' --
it in fnrA story, wnicn grov j B0jd np. We have already stayed lived, she was sick only short!' Primary Plansr-Mrs. P. A. Cope.
wJiAi. ii wi to ana for one third of our time, required, o while and throughout the dark lone- land. v ' ,.
W0Bidi..- " we wiU soon have it lived out if the iy hours of the night and the long. Duty of tne Individual to His Com.
e. mnM an Anr nnri.a nttt
eat flT. atht I,nrcnase ne"!
An an f . int ."nrrnwin 1
nia-hta j"1 that can interest you au. wisn i The casket was covered with oeaiui-
ugnis. could see every Herald reader this.fui flowers and the eyes of the con-
In fact, she could keep the whdle evening. I guess they would be a gregation were filled with tears. -
town in a stew crowd. Well, some crops here ari We know that we shall nevermore
If She told the tenth' part of the things 'fine and some very late, csn't ' tell , be greeted by her pleasant smiles In
that she knew . I how the late ones will do. There Is this life; but God doeth all things
Now Does it not put your head In a a r-eap of grain In the country, tno mO. ; w C -
whirl - It is a little high; corn 75c per bu.. we are waiting by th river,
When you think what you owe to the !malse $20. per ton, bacn 2?c. lard ; We are waitingryou and I;
telephone girl T . 1 17 l-2c. So asking God a blessing j . One by one our friends are crossing
... . 6 .. ' on all I will ring oft. Tours truly, j We shall Join them, by and bve.
Alexandria Fair, Sept. 7, 8, 8. " 1 - G. W. JAQUESS 1 LIZZIE ENGLAND.
TO SCHOOL PATRONS
The City School will open Monday
norning, Sept. 4. The eeneral doII-
cies In vogue for the past two years
Zlu .De.. conformed to this sei
cnnfYti-mefl tn th1a ooaolin
-
ine iac.u"T assignments for. the year
"i0"01;, T
"j Grade. Miss Leona Byrne. 2nd
rdei,Mrs- Qmbr Dyer. 3rd Grade
I ieacner ror a numoer or years has
tendered her resignation and will not
P 5"h the school this session. Ill
who uw rewuu iur uerrenigna'
Itlon. During her long connection ,
tne ca7 scnool Miss Mooneyham
nas greatly endeared herself to the
People of Cookevllle. Her many
! friends wish for her a speedy recov.
ery '
i uurin tne vacauon monies several
of the teachers have been snendimr
the time in study at different sum-
'mer schools.
MISS Maggie Davis has been tak-
..line - a course at Peabodv. Mias Bvr.
no has been in attendance at. Knox,
ville Summer School. Others have
(studied at home and in the county in.
StitUte.
' It B with genuine pleasure we wel-
come back to our facultv one of its
former members, Miss Bessie Alcorn,
have been made during vacation,
'!'ha itfiMnaitta fa 1fl1S17 aaaafin
. , . m . ji-i
a 'are inaeea ongni ana wo uaaesiiai-
singly predict the best school year wel
have ever had. . I
' M. T. CARUSIA supt.
.
community meeting
ne commiwee . appoiniea w ar-
range the program, for the meeting
at rieasam urove scnooi inin aist.
submit the following:
Welcome Address ;Beecher Gentry,
Purpose - of the Meeting: Blair
1 Harrison.
Community Cooperation; Messrs.
f TJt.Btaa TaaH.t Wa.H Vahv
jo, utiu, mauau, icu;,
Community Plan of Demonstration
Work and Boys Club Work. Blair
Harrison. - .
Dinner.
Forage Crops; Mr. Converse.
' The Community Live Stock Asm.
R. M. Murphy.
Benefits of Community Organiza
ion. J. M. Dean.
Canning Club Work end Cannning
Demonstration. Miss McKenzie.
The time is set at 9:30 Friday,
lent. 8'h and all members of the
community are urged to attend. A
barbecue and other good things to
eat. Come and spend the day with
Cook spring.
Committee.
ALLIE, N. MEX.
Here I come again after so long,
for a little talk with the Herald fam-
ny. Hope the kind Editor will give
me room. WeU, the first tning on
my mind is to Hhank all that sent
me cards on my birthday. Received
30 and they were every one highly
appreciated. Cousins, Alma and Ann
Dow, was sure glad to hear from
you, all. come again.
Hello, Aunt- S. M. Wassom, and
all yon cousins, was sure glad to get
your cards. Wish you would write
to the "Herald. -
. Mrs.'N. S. West and family, hope
you all have got our letter. Was
sure glad to hear from you all. Write
again.
Sav. Mvrtle Daniels, guess I knowiw..,f Viro.iQ . r n nviihnma i
you. Where do you live. Many,gho ha8 decided to go to Pilot Knob, j
th-thanks for the nice card you sent me.
Say. E. E., J. and family, just pica
up and come but here, and get you
a nice borne.
Hello, Uncle P. M. and Aunt wan
cv Jaauess. how are you , all. Anatrat hnTnM.v. -
sister Mattie, how are.you all. Why..
don't you all come out here and take
up land. It Is S and 1-2 miles around
our place. It is sure a prewy coun-
tn here and aa rood nelahbors as
you need W w stek'K, 15 nd , w-yon ' see iJhJnvhr nwS
(over two weeks and they came 10 or ., . uttle or oM man Tneimore than any other . wagon,- we
T ' .. . - I t-j- : IB" I UIUC uvy nor na oiu Ulna, iiie . marv lna. mirHii
17 mt wa rn mh iiht , iir; kuuu wuj i
came and stayed a week, so you sef
we sure have got friends and neigh
horn." and rood ones. too.
Hello. Sister E. A. Lewis, T W and
Mary Dyer and family, how are you
all, o k I hope. We would t so glad
iif you were all here today. We are
here alone. Mary has such a bad
col(L we couia not g0 to church. Bro,
Day, of Texas Is holding meeting at
Redjanaf B0. come OTer ani g0 with
us to hear him.
t.. Heuo, itroiner . w. j. mu umiu,
I we got tbat nice group tne otner aay.
i sure nice. Why don't you all come I
land get homes wane, you can. i nae i
i . MA luittA y o T ATnonteil I
spares us, 2,more years, ana i dreary days a faithful watch was kept
that Isn't Jong. So I guess I hadby her bedside. Her remains were j
ring oft soon and let some one wd to rest In the West cemetery.
ROOM FOR ALL IN DORMITORIES
AT POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
There seems to be an Impression
abroad that ths ilnrmltnrloa at tk.
' Ta...A. t- 1 i i i ...
i ivuucDKv run Lm;iiiiiu iiini i liit h wi 1
be overly crowded and insnfflelent to
accomodate .ii at?wa wh m.v.
application
Although a large attendance Is ex-'," tSTanCe- ?9 5 l0
pected and no doubt both dormitories -g Lc Rr'f W!f,,,di8po8eLof
will be weU filled after the opening ; fF'S Rr J vVl taM?2n?
of school, no -on. need heeitite to:SSffli ?I2jL JXVfZ
seek reservations, and all students . SfLDgBi 17ltea' J1 J tu
wiU be provided with comfortabli . 1 e"'' 'inh poeful of
accomodations. improvement in a few days.
The buildings are rapidly nearlng LTseYent
nmniotin. t,a . nessee sent a magnificent renort for
ta -tire tasunation of toniture: The
china ware and kitchen supplies have , " T-Y' T , " .mu"' r aca
arrived and nHr I yment of dues, and now has a mem
th vrotr in.. n
made ready for use when school
opens the fourteenth of September
rom present plans the opening of
the Tennessee Polytechnic Inatitnta
Vlll Ka Fa1 lata An -mm rW.
vme. Putncounty. and Tonne's"
:
DEMOCRATIC MASS MEETING
:
in accordance wun tne order made
.hy the Democratic Senatorial com-
,mittee, in session at Livingston, Ten-
(nessee, Saturday, August 19th 1916, I
nereoy can a mass meeting 01 tne
'Democrats - of Putnam County to
i meet at Cookevllle On Monday. Sent.
th, 1916, at 12 o clock, m. to select
j delegates to the Senatorial Conven-
UOn lO OO Held M IjlVingStOn On T1.
day, Sept. 15th, 1916, for the purpose
of nominating a Democratic candi-
date for State Senator from this, the
10th Senatorial District.
C. H. RICKMAN, Chairman
MISCELLANEOUS SHOWER
Mrs. P. Y. Jared was hostess Thur
sday afternoon of a nicely planned
miscellaneous shower for Miss Pearl
'Craig, a bride-tobe of next month.
The hostess was assisted in receiving
the guests on-the beautiful lawn, by
Mrs.. Ellen Jared. A large collection
of beautiful gifts were showered up
on the bride after which , a three
course mnn war nerved bv MIrcao
. . - --- . . -
- "wu
THE STRAND CHANGES HANDS
tjfa strand Theatre has cbanaed
hand, the new owner. hein n in
and x u Colvert The new
management propose to give the best
shows possible, all of them clean and
wholesome, and hope to merit a libe
ral patronage from lovers of the
movies.
LONE OAK
There is some, little sickness at
present. Everything is peaceable
unlet.
The decoration at the Judd cetne
tery August 26th, was a ' nice one.
Several hands met early in the morn
Ing and cleaned up the cemetery nice
ly they all. worked Hk heroes. Ev
erybody returned at 3:30 in the after
noon. There was a good audience
and after song and prayer we all lis
tened to an address by Hon. E. H.
Boyd, of Cookevllle, on the subject of
memorials and decorations. It was a
splendid .speech, and everyone pres
ent enjoyed it. The graves were nice
It riommteri with flowers. Onod be
haviour. deep solemnity seemed to
rent nnnn ihe nntlrn annienne. -
May the Lord bless the Herald and
its many readers. Let roe hear froml
you one and all. , Good luck to tne
editor. RBJV. M, JTJDD
, ,,, I, ,, 'w
ROCKY POINT
Mrs. Randoipn wno nas neen sick
for some time, is reported' no better.
The; revival meeting at this place
closed Sunday, and we are glad to
report that we had a wonderful meet
ing, good attendance, good preaching,
good interest, and best of all nine
precious souls were happily convert-
ed. !
. Sunday school at this place Is pro-
greasing nicely, .. !
The school teacher at this place.
Mr. Bussell, moved to this part last
week.--
Hello. W. ' McComa'c. voar letter i
was fine. Did you get any answer
to your card, ha! ha! ,
Sav w.har vnn ara mistaken n. .
Hello, Harvey L., of Ahloso, whemmucn nappiness mrougn me.
are you going o start to Tennessee? ! I will close by asking for a shower
You must 'come before the J5th of of birthday cards Aug. 29. I will be
October. v (between -16 . and20 years old. All
Cow fit T i ITanooo An vin avAt cards and nresents will be biahlr
w w . go manf asklna for
folrtnday carda i ask for a BD0W.
. tor C0UBin. . -
AddresB to Herehel Henry. His
. o . r j v in k.
1 t-1 . n
ne one Bendlng the prettiest
card gets his photo. Address . to
Cookevllle, Tenn., R. 6. All cards
will be appreciated and answered.
Best wishes to all. ' Nannie Henry
'. MRS. CATHERINE LEE
f Mrs. Catherine Lee departed this
life Ant?. 11. 1916. aged about 53 yrs.
j she leaves t husband, seven child-(
iren and a host of friends to tavvm -
I her loss. She was a woman of love-
jy race ana aisposuion. ana reaav
iwith a smile and kind words for all
She will, be greatly missed, by all
who knew her. She was a devoted
christian and a memoer or tne cane
l.nAl. ChA Wa m a1m.. m
1 i ...
I :vlew No- 17S. I OOF
e- at tne usual hour 8
rA" aiagie. w u presiding
'"L ? lncr!H "
pership of 112, showing very clearlr
! at the brothers of that lodge think
, .i00?? between meeUngs. a
7C l. " , :, . "me
tnere Ia an lnfiaUon or degree work.
pay special attention to the obliea.
cacome, T
.you can come to living- up to them.
0dd Fellow News.) "When things
j don't come your ay you havent the
ngnt Kind or bait. (Odd Fellows
News)
To be a member Is one
thing; to be an odd fellow is quite
another.' (Odd Fellows News.) All
mat can snouia attend our next meet.
ing.
SALEM COMMUNITY CLUB
Our community met at Salem Aug.
26, with a good crowd, with B. C.
Huddleston, chairman.
D. C. Whiteaker opened the meet
Ing with his welcome address, after
which several other inspiring') talks -were
made, on the betterment of our
community.
Prof. Harrison made a splendid
talk on the Boys Corn Club and what
it takes to make an ideal Community,
which was enjoyed by all. This end- ,
ed the forenoon program. , .
Dinner was prepared and all seem-
ed to enjoy themselves, eating cakes
and ice cream, which was prepared ;
for the occasion.
The afternoon was taken up-by
"everal Interesting talks on what it
takes to make an ideal Community.
Mrs. Carlin opened the exercise with '
a very interesting and inspiring talk,
followed by Mrs. Fred White..
Miss Smith and Miss Gregory made '
short, but Interesting talks . on the -"3irl8
Tomato Club.
Several other good talks were made
on various subjects. Prof. Harrison 1
closed the exercise with a lengthy ,
talk on farm crops and various things
pertaining to farm life. " , ' i
, W. T, BILBRICY.
. WANETTE, OKLA. " .' ' .
Mr. Mason and family vlBlted at '
the G W. Roberson home, Sunday.
June Kimbrell is very ill with fe-.
ver. .,..
Wake up you Monterey folks, and
write to us.
Arch Carroll visited G. W.- Rober
son Sunday night.
The musical at Mr. Pratt's was well
attended, and all present report a
nice time.
Lester and Lonnle Roberson and
Joe Whitteaker left this morning for
Maysville, S. C, to work in the broom
- corn.
- Hello, Aunt Rean Jackson of Leo
nard, .Texas, papa got home alright,
and . believe me De was as anxious to
get nome as ne was to leave, na nai
He says he certainly had a nice
time. But there's no place like home
for him.
Ova and OUie Henry visited their
sister, Mrs. Lewis Whiteaker Friday
night.
Mr. and Mrs. Hulan Bryant are
the proud parents of a baby girl.
Mr. Lester Roberson is a candidate
tor matrimony and thinks he will be
elected soon, as bis brother Carl has
been elected for quite awhile. . : '
Willie Mason visited the Roberson
boys Thursday night.
Mrs. Carl Roberson visited her
mother, Mrs. Richstatter, a few days
ago,
Lester Henry and ramuy or Anioso,
Oklahoma has been visiting his'bro-
ther Chester for a few dvaa.
Lee Wvnn and Alice UDton were
married Sunday. We wish them
laDDreciated by me.
Address, Mis Myrtle Roberson,
Wanette, Okla., R. 2.
Just received a carload.: Come buy
your btuaeoaKer wagon, it lasts
FARMERR'S UNION SUPPLY CO.,
via wciu . - - j v.r r.
2t Cookevllle, Tenn. '
TEACHERS RALLY AND STUDENT
REUNION AT POND RIDQE
All' students . that have "attended
school here at any. time, and all the
teachers of Overton county
are re-
quested to be present Saturday, Sept.
9th at 10 a. m., and all others than
teachers and students are cordially
'invited to be with us.
Program
Song by entire congregation.
' Invocation O. A, Klrby.
Welcome Address P. A. Copeland.
meic way sor tne scnooi taa Bione.
Uiii.1 a .Z1 V! Tamntin anil Tim
rcunlty c. C. wre.
Dinner.
Student March. ,
Agrloultun? Mr. Elrod.
.Recitation JD. Brantley,
School System We Need Geo. Lee.
Song by Oak 'Hill school. .
Sanitation in School; Luther Speck
Music .
What 1 Am Doing In My School to'
Upbuild the Community By each
teacher present. v
A Speech From the Old Students
Along the Line of His Profession.
) MINNIE SWACK.
4
