Hendersonville
Tk Mecca r
for 5"?mer
' Tourists
VOL. XXI". NO. 33
PRICE FIVE CENTS
iS. COVER AND MR.
Glass Room
piiMiiif 111 iiliiiiilMl
IlICiHflKiPSill
leilialiilii
a
liS WiNDIE AUP
DELIGHTS AUDIENCE
ENTIRE If. S.
Hi
t f I .. X II. W M W I - ' I I - - V 1 - - I I . f I 1 - -I 1 9 1 f j-ife i f i I t . - t I . -, i I I I.I - X. ""H. - I 11 1 M w I . . . : I
THREATENS
y-
piamou.l n'tiiffs Awarded to RYJ. Al
(Icrinan and Mrs-Vf. Sims. .
Contest Closes. : . : J
t hitler and Merchants' Business
Boost ii
Sat'.rY
1 - -
the F-
the '
Campaign taiue .iu.a, ause
evening at five o'clock,- and
eleven o'clock the judges
-i Mrs. A. M. Gover winner or
; oaring car in District No. 1, 1
2. R. J. Alderman won
Y ring in District No. 1, and
, ,.J in district No. 2, wa3
t Mrs. W. W. Sims of Hill-
A
1 of the contest the fight had
nvn to uiree contestants
the fvo districts, and much
;: war," done during the- last
ro t'ie contest closed.
'. Vn to winning the Ting in
; o. 1 in the regular contest
rian was awarded ,the Hust-r
oii for turning in the most
i jubscriptionss tip to four
aturday afternoon. --te
were counted Saturday
Yur
Tn
1- a
F.. J.
nighr by J. C. Morrow, Jrv of the First
Barik r.r.d Trust Co., arid A. O. Jones,
resistor of deeds for Henderson coun
ty! They announced the result in the
fclIowiiiEc statement: . -
"August 26, 1916.
' Wo, the undersigned judges of the
Hustler and Merchants Co-Operative
Business Boosting Campaign," after!
carefully counting voting certificates
of the various booster contestants, do
herbv declare the following results:
DISTRICT XO. 1.
"Ford Touring Car Mrs: A. M. Gov
er. .").93-",S06 votes. ,
"Diamond Ring. R. JVr Alderman,
4,904.223 votes.
"Third. A. C. Glazener, 3,221,198
votes. -
"DISTRICT JfO. 2.
"Ford Touring Car. E.' J. Anders,
2,407,674 votes. 1 rv:;..-: -
"Diamond Ring. Mrs. -.W.W.-Sims
1.470.374 votes., s; . tiL ?':v Y
"Third. Miss Laura - Browri 1,3 47t
374 votes. - ' "... . . .' . -Y
"We desire to state to all parties in
terested that we fiiid through inquiry
and records thecontest to have been
conducted in a fair manner, asr far.as:
we are able todeterminetnd do here
by declare the above parties winners,
"J. C. MORROW, JR. :
"A. O. JONES." - :
C(XTETI0X POSTPONED. Y
Henderson County Singine: Convention
to be Held the Third Sun
day in October.
J. F. Stepp,. president of the" Hen derson
county Singing Convention, an
nounces that because of court "begin
ing at the time it does, it will be nec
essary to postpone .the time ot the
singing convention from the first Sun
day in October to the third Sunday in
October, it is desired that everybody
remember this and prepare themselves
for a day of enjoyment.
The old folks cave a special' invita
tion to attend and it is hoped they will
eoiae prepared to Pivt Y
"We are hoping for the most, suc
cessful day of our conventional work
says Mr. Stepp. . ;.
AT ANCIENT AL2IANAC. 1
Miss Josie Streeper of Pottsville.
Pa., who is sojourning in this place,
nas presented Attorney W. Marshall
Bridges with a Wnited States almanac,
printed
ini84fi Tt Vino Qnmo irtlrpn
that are h&inJ naaaA i m
day as something new. It also con- I
tains wood-cut pictures of de Soto dis
covering the Mississippi river, capture
of Pocahontas, ruing of Fort Ticonde
roga, murder of -Miss McCrea, death
of Pulaski, batUe of Camden and
death of Baron de Kalb. and the bat
tle of Lake Erie. "
ANNUAL MEETING WOMAN'S
BAPTIST MISSIONARY UNION.
The Women's Missionary Union of
the Carolina Baptist Association will
hld its annual meeting with the Tux
edo church Wednesday, September 6,
for an all-day meeting. Every church
and society is urged to send delegates
and reports from their churches. "An
interesting program has been provided
and many topics of .interest to wo
man s work will be discussed.
MRS. J. F. BROOKS,
Association Supt
STREET CAB BAN OFF TRACK.
Sunday afternoon one of the trolley
cars on the Laurel Park street rail
way didn't stoD when it came to the
?XL0f tbe track at the intersection of
mh avenue and Main street, and ran
n off the track down into Main street,
failure to apply brakes is thought to
Jjave been the cause, and outside of. the
nanges of the wheels "cutting into the
nituiithic pavement no damage " was
FORKING ON CHURCH.
The congregation of St. James Epis
copal church, have begun work on the
foundation for an addition to the
cnurch. it is understood that ,the con
gregation will pay for the new addition
as work progresses. ; - ,
iJFapt- R- v- Ladd in charge of the
jocai recruiting station sent peven new
recruits to Camp Glenn last, week. The
jnen were assigned to the first regi
ment. . - - . x
The? splendid new class room of the
Wesley Adult Bible-class of the Meth
odist church, costing, about $580, was
dedicated with appropriate exercises
Sunday morning just after the study
of the regular lesson for the da i
James R. Hill, class "teacher aade a
sior,t talkr. telling of the eff of the
class in building the class room" and
how proud he was that.it was com
pleted and-: all paid for. Vance Nor
wood, class president,, presented the
idmg
for dedication, and after
short scripture lessons read by W. f.
Martin and Rev. Mr. Davis, the room
was formally dedicated to the service
of the Master by Rev. W. P. Wonible,
pastor of, the church, and the dedica
tory prayer was offered bv Rev. Mr.
Phillips:
This class now 13 in the midst of a
campaign for new members, being di
vided into two teams, the reds"and the
blues, captained by C. F. Bland and M.
fC: Letson , respectively. The losing
side will be hosts at an ice cream suiv
per ok. the church lawn soon after the
campaign closes September 17. "
Sunday morning the class voted to
invite Bible classes of the country I
cnurches in this section to meet wit'i
them on Sunday morning for the study
of - the lesson and then meet with tha
country church in the afternoon a
different class to.be invited each Sun
day. AGELIXE ITE2IS.
Local and Personal Items Gathered
in That Hustling Community
. Meeting at Mis River.
(Special to The Hustler.) -Angeline,
Aug. 30. Mrs. A. Keppler
and daughter, Miss Gladys.of New Or
leans and her nlJece, Miss Florrie
Dubus, of Abbeville, La., have -returned
to their respective homes. .
J. C. Britton's beautiful . lawn was
graced with a .bevy ot young ladies,
married couples and children- last Sat
urday. , : The; occarUDn was an . ice,
cream supperYgiven by the Ii'iies of
the : Presbyterian cEurch. ; The neighs
bora and guests f or miles around re
sponded and the : occasion was arand
success" - " -- " 'f
TThe enterprising HayeSxBros., have
replaced : theoldv-wooden.mil lheel b.?
a gne steel construct))!!, lllie wooden
wheel-was badly demolished by the re
cent flood, and now that it. has been
replaced by' a better one, the meal, will
be the finest quality made. V -
Frank Cathey-treated his guesTg to
a. mountain party Saturday. Every
one was delighted with the trip, 5f the
roady was a little rocky. -
Melvin Steward, a pioneer moun
taineer, has purchased an automobile.
Miss' Henderson, better known as
"Aunt Rea," and Mrs. - Sterling, and
daughter are located at Frank Cathey's
for the season. ' -
T. P. Jamison, the noted evangelist,
honn a revival service Sunday night
at the Mills River MethodUst church.
The meetings will continue for some
time and every one Is cordially Invfjted
to attend.
Mrs. S. C. Foy, of Augusta, Ga., is
recuperating at Morris Farm, for a
few weeks. -
Mrs. Hayes spent a very pleasant
week with relatives at Brevard.
Uncle Tom Johnson's barn hap be
come famous as a dance hall. : The
way the young ; people 'danced the
square dance Monday nUght, is worthy
of commendation; .
Mrs. D. L. Johnson has returned to
her home" after a two weeks visit to
Asheville and Alexander with her chil
dren. - .
Mrs. T V. Car land treated her guests
to a iVr outine Saturday,
The aay
was spent partly a Hollywood and
Horse Shoe. Every one enjoyea in
country, mountain scenery and the
ride. '" " "
COLUMBIA MAN BUYS Y - - -nv
. HILLSIDE PARK.
Hillside Park, property of the SPuth
Carolina club, has heen sold to Thos.
S' Bryan yice president of the Caro
liiia National1 Bank, Columbia, S. C.
The sale includes the clubhouse and
lake and about five acres of ground.
The consideration was not named.
I - HURT BY FALL. Y
Dr F W. Lake of FlorenceS. C.
who with his family occupy a cottage
on South Washington street, is con
fined to his room as -a result of in
iurijes sustained in a fall on the side
walk near his home Friday, morning.
Although no bones were -broken, Ms
his hip is badly bruised and he is suf
fering considerably. .
TEACHING DANCING. -
ProfS H Paperone of Asheville, a
graduate of the Royal Dancing Acad
emy of Naples, Italy, gave the first of
a series of dancing lessons at the Car
olina Terrace last Friday evening. -His
pfospects here are fine &n& Mr. Pape
rone says he regrets that he didn t
come here early in the season instead
of stopping in -Asheville.
- ICE CREAM SUPPER.
' Ice cream will he served for the
benefit of. the Presbyterian church on
the lawn of Mrs.J. L. Gah at Etowah,
Saturday evening September 2, begin
ning at 6 o'clock. . ' ' r
" Robert A: Beatty, aharme
chant shot and killed his wife at thein
home' in Charlotte Monday morning
He fire? four shots
Jealousy is -assigned as the cause. ,
Biff Affair . Staged in City Auditoriiiif
Y' by Local Talent JDraws i" V-i: S
Yv. ' Bis Crowd. Y'
The Masonic Minstrels was a graa
success Tuesday night and- pronilse
to-break all records Wlnesdaynigb):
for -a second performance. .; V-fi-',
."" Promptly at 8 p. m. Hendersonville.
hew opera house was throvn open -for
the public for the first time in many
years. The new city, hall :is neariug
completion and extra" workmen have.
been busy getting . ; auditorium . an-tH
'opera house in shape for the opening
t night. , - : : T;Y r.
The program Yjrendere'd Tuejd-y
night has been pronounced, by many
311st as good as professional acting and,
.the -jokes and ; hits on local citizens
made it even better. - The house :'was
kept In an uproar while Messrs. :"VV H."!
Bangs, J. M. Rhodes, S. T. Hodges;
A. Woodward, E. G. Stillwell, Dr.' A- O.
Tebeau. Guy Mateer H. C. Rainey, Jr;
L. E. Mateer.. and John T. Wiikms
performed their stunts. ' " v - : . Y
. The. encores'proved that the"brche3-i
tra under the leadership of. Mrp.JvVrA
Garland was one of the' best trained;
troupes ever-gathered in Henderson
ville. Those who ; composed the1 or-
chestra -'we're Mrs. Wv A. Garlahdi
p:and; Mrs. J. A. "WoodwardMr. R; R
Carlisle, violins; Mr. C. F. Bland, Jaassi
violin; Mr. C. H. Blackburn, French;
horn; Mr. H. J. Barber, cornet ;Vjtfri
Howard Miller, clarionet; Mr. Mont;
Egerton, glide trombone; Mr. V.fA
Seerton drums. : . Y ' - ' v
The solos by J. A -Woodward; Sard J
T. Hodges, Dr, A. C. Tebeau. Guy. Ma
teer, and H.C Rainey, Jr., were fine.Yj
, Part two was laid in a cabaret dnd
concert scene where the orchestra
rendered a number of classical pieces.
. M. C. Bangs delighted his hearers
with a selected reading. : -He-proved' to
be more than an amateur. The fol
low was the program rendered impart
two: ' ' ... ' :- " l.'"'-S v-
1. Pique Darner- J By the'Orchegtra
2. Reading Selected M. C. Bangs
3. Duet Selected, French -Horn and
T. . y: : Slide Trombone; c YY: .
Messrs,;BlacKburri.aadYE
4,
Reception and introduction hjol
Wm. Jenning Bryan.
Col. Bryan
Mr. W. H. Bangs.
5.
Violin Solo "Dumka" M. Lewinger
Miss Evah Blythe.
6. ' Reception and introduction of Col.
. Theodore Roosevelt. Col. Roose-
vel,t Mr. Sam T. Hodges.
7 Contralto Solo "Odbn Fatale" Verdi
Miss Anna Graham Harris.
8. Male Quartette : Selected
Carolina Male Quarte,tte.
9. Solo and closing chorus 'Are You
From Dixie."
Mr. Guy Mateer and entire company.
SEYERE STORM SWEEPS
THE SALISBURY SECTION.
One Man Dead, Several Seriously In.
jnred aad Many Buildings De
molished and Damaged.
A .seyere -windstorm at. Salisbury
late Monday caused the death, of Wm.
Callaway, a carpenter, - demolished
several one-story brick buildings and
unroofed dozens of business houses
and residences. At East Spencer,
persons were injured and several
buildings blown down.
The Murphy block. and the WaUa.ce
building here were damaged, and mer
chandise stocks throughout the city
were flooded. ,
The plan.t of the North ' Carolina
Public Service company was put out
of commission, leaving the city with
out lighitiig f acilites, and poles blown
across the tracks at various points
halted street cars. . '
The ' most seriously injured is Mrs.
D. A. Kluttz, who1 was caught under a
ton or more of falling brick from the
walls of the store buildings, one arm,
one leg and her hip bone crushed, be?
sides other serious bruises. She was
rushed to a Salisbury hospital for
treatment;
In the store at the time was also
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Fesperman and
four children. Seeing the top of the
building had blown across the street
they abandoned the store only to"be
covered with brick, and bersf ail
ing in front. " .
WHh considerable - difficulty they
were extricated and alL were more or
less tjnjured. Y - Yv
- EDNEYYILLE R-1..NEWS.
(Special to The Hustler.)
Edney ville R-l. Aug. 3e.-Mrs. Mar
gie Lamb and Miss Clarissa Eedbetter
left last Friday for Greenville, SKJ. v
Mrs. Eugene -Morrison of Rosman,
N. C.; and Mrs. Larceny Lyda and
daughter of Fruitland, visited relatives
in thi!s section last'JTiday and Satur
day. - ... - '-. ,VY:
George Hall of Bear Wallow, has
purchased MrsYBettie Xyda's place.
He is expecting to move in this week.
'Robert Justus of Hendersonville, Is
moving M.; W. Freeman's house which
was wrecked by Jthe flood. Y
Hoke Flack is attending: school at
Fruitland Institute again tfiis year.
- Mrs. Katie Lyda has been : on the
sick list, for several days. Her friends
will be glad to learn she is improving.
- Miss Lovesby.the teacher of, St
Paul school who 'has been taking her
vacationYreturned last week? - YY
Ex-Mayor Wing ; of Tampa. Fla;, Is
spending some time . with his famDy
at Mountain home.- Mr. Wihg is one
of the big men of Tampa. . - Y
i
Unless Some Sol it ion is Brnglit
v -About Strike 111I be in E ffect
Yr rSeptember"4. . -
- Railroad employes-Jiave refected the
final proposal of the heads, of the rail-
troaas aitectea and unless some unfore-
general strike -pf railroad, trainmen on.
allhe principal railroads of the UnW
td; States will be in effect: the orders
....axujru ocxit uui. caumg
for the strike.-; , . -f.the discussion on agriculture. - . "
Y Failing in h's purpose to bring -tlie - All the teachers teaching in Hen
railroad managers and" their emnlov Person county are not only: urged to
to-terms, President Wilson went before
congress Tuesday and laid the situation
before that body with recommenda
tions for legislation, and the next de
velopments depend unon two rtoinfs.
Mwliether the jegislat 'on he proposes" can
pe passed, and 11 enacted will it be
come effective . to prevent a strike.
Neither of these questions could be
answered" Tuesday n-'ght. ; - -
The strike situation is . the all ab
sorbing topic of conversation on the
streets and in the homes of .Hender
sonville. -people. Jjist "what effect it
will have upon the country, should the
strike go in,to effect, is a matter of
conjectures. Certainly some trains will
be run and perhaps, there is some con"-
isolation in this fact but the outlook is
very dark. Y. - -
- Railroad heads have issued embar
goes on perishable freight and; liave
also warned parssengers to. not attempt
a journey by rail which they : cannot
finish before midnight September 3,
unless they waat to take a chance at
being unavoidably delayed in reaching
their destination. . - -
to congress for 'immediate'Jegislation
are in part as follows: '
Y First; ; Immed'ate provision for the
enlargement and administrative reor
ganization of- the interstate commerce
commission along i the" lines, embodied
in jthe bill recently passed by. the
house Y of i representatives and now
awaitine action by, the senate.
will nre conne-
1 efeht-hour' day as the legal basis alikei
1 of vork and of wagesi
I Third. The authorization of the nn-
poimtment by the president of a small
body of men to observe the actual re
sults in experience of the adoption of
the: eight-hour day in railway, trans
portation alike for the men and for
the railroads. " Y
Fourth Y Explicit approval by the
congress of the consideration of the.
interstate commissionof an incra3e
of freight rates to meet such addition
al expenditures by the railroads a3
maiyhave been rendered by the adop
tion of the eight-hour day.
Fifth. An amendment of the exist
ing federal statute which provides for
the mediation, conciliation- and arbi
traton of such controversies as ,the
present. ' -
Sixth. The lodgment-Jn the hands
of the executive of the power, in case
f military necessity to take control
of such portions and such rolling stock
of the railways of the country as may
be required for military use and to
operate them for military. - purposes
with authority to draft into the mili
tary service of the United States such
train crews and administrative officials
as the circumstances require for their
.safe and efficient use.
TREE PLANTING AT
CAROLINA TERRACE.
(By Old Hurrygraph.) ...
. Carolina Terrace, Hendersonville
Aug. 30. Avery pretty sentiment, the
idea of Mrs. W. H. Mixson, ot Charles
ton, S. C, was carried out this.',
morning at 10 o'clock in the planting!
of a beautiful cedar tree, in a triangle
terraced plot, at the Carolina .Terrace,
In loving memory of the guests "of 1916.
Mr. "Howell Cobb, the proprietor, as
sisted in digging the hole. Mrs. Mix
son presented the tree.to the Terrace.
J. A. Robinson, in behalf of Mrs. Mix
son, made these few remarks: "Mr.
"Cobb, in this -beautiful cedar tree, m
the years to come I hope tnat; you n
see a token of our love and sympa
thy." Mr. Cobb received it most gra
ciously, and d id most of jthe planting.'
He said, when the tree was placed: "I
never made but one address in my life,
and a poor dear, little womait has- for
forty-three years suffered thfe "conse
quences L of that address. But" I am
pleased with thi3 evidence of your es
teem.: interest and kindnessMrs. Mix
son, i hope this evergreen emblem of
friendship will grow in atature and
beauty, and always -be a joy and a de
light to you on your returns, and to
all others who see It" . 'me planting
was "witnessed by. a number of the
Quests of the hotel.
HOSPITAL .BAZAAR BIG SUCCESS.
v The ladies who conducted the bazaar
for: the benefit of the Patton Memorial
hospital are highly delighted in the
fine showing made. Over $200 was
raised in the proceeds of the sale. JThe
hsopital has been the recipient of . a
number of affairs this season where
neat sums were raised. V : Y
PHONE 140 TOR MAXWELL.
.'. Through an error thetelephone
number of - Maxwell's - Cash Grocery
store advertisement in this -ssue reads
143 instead of 140 which is the correct
number for all - phones at . this store.
' JThe regular -monthly meeting of the
Henderson County"-teachers " will he
1 held Saturday, Sept 9 in the. audito
rium of the "graded school building" in
Hendersonville v.- Y Y YY: - Yx
YDiYWm.YR Kirk-will address the
! science. Dr. Kirk is a scientific -nhv-
I sician of recognized ability as well as
1 iius suuuuiriy r a,uam-
i "prepare caU?Se
chapter in'.: Charter's "Teaching the
Common Branches," on physiology and
hygiene, and agriculture. - : . Y-
.. I have asked Mr, .T. F. Shipnian to
lead the discussion on- physiology and '
.hvsiene n.nrf Mr .Tas w Pac.A to lea
I come;ftare expected to attend these
The public is also cordially invited,
, By order of the committee.
:r Y : ;.v W. S. SHITLE,
Y County Superintendent. .'
BOLD MOONSHINERS Y "
: ; Y IN TRANSYLVANIA.
Bolckaders of Transylvania county
have Ybeen - trying to play a joke on
Deputy Collector of Internal Revenue
J. A. Galloway, says the Asheville
Times. That officer, is at home in
Brevard when he" is not on the trail of
some : moonshiner, , wriJcm . is ' almost
every, day: in the .week. v' '' : Y '
Recently. whilev the Brevard repre-
seniatrve of Uncle Sam was in another
county, some of the incorrigible lovers
of untaxed "tjkker" installed a fine reopenea. -it 13 possible-now tp use
HQ-gallon copper still within a mile r an automobile from Rutherfordton to
and half of Mr. Galloway's house, just the first, ford on. the Broad River. But
outside the city limits of rtk prosper-; frm this-, point;, to the Henderson
ous native cil. The very boldness of , County line the road is practically im
the plan made it a success for a time passable. . This does not mean' that it
and much fermented refreshments wa3 Us entirely destroyed, but .that there
manufactured contrary to the peace
and dUgnity of the "United States.'
But Gallowav is too much .alive on
the job to overlook uch'a bet.f or long.
Saturday his plans were ; perfected -for
a fell swoop onthe unlawful premises
and in company r with Officers . J
Hedrick and'J. T. Boyd, he' seized the
planf ahd fouhd abut 1,000 gallojis of
beer, :v?H kft Y in at few 5;more-houra
whiskeys v -c-
V-Thc: moonshiners were - evidently pi( me. aax jave region, ..7-. . .. -sharply
on the lookout for the factory 1 "From Bat Cave going toward tha
was in full blast, when the raiders Sap jthe: road- in some , places was' en--made
tbe-capture and all the opera- tirely wiped out. but in other is ? as -tors
"escaped. Whfie .their" losses are good as before the flood. There is at
heavy the boys are undoubtedly laugh-:, least a mile of road altogether wiped
ing over the recollection of howmany out that makes it impossible to - get
gallons of eood cheer thev made with- in and out of the settlements between?.
in' a - mile and a half Galloway's
house. Y- Y . -
ROTJMANIA CASTS- ' jof the celebrated apple regions of the
HER LOT WITH ALLIES, mountain and this! year the fruit was
r : . . ' t very abundant and of excellent quality. '
Roumania has thrown in her lot; On account of the Impassability of the
with the entente allies by declaring-' roads, thousands of bushels have rot
war on Austria-Hungary and almost ted and gone to waste, depriving the
simultaneously Germany has announce people of one of tkeir chief sources of
ed that she is at war with Roumanllla. income. Plans are being rushed for
Already the troops of King Ferdi- ward to try to get the road" open so
nand are seeking entry into the plains that the people can market, their fall
ofYTransylvania through the eastern apples. ' Y "1 : . ' -
Carpajthians toward Kronstadt. the - Men Anxious for Work. Y '
chj&f city in Transylvania, and in the- "This region will also fee assisted "by
direction of Hermannstadt, evidently the Federal Relief Fund and it is ex
in an endeavor to press northward pected that at least four different
through ransylvariia - toward the- groups of men will be;at work on dif
Bukowina and Galicia borders and to ferent sections of the road. These
take in the' rear the Austro-Germans men are . without employment, have
tryijag tcLhold back the Russians from - ost all of their crop,, are in need of
entering the plains of Hungary. ; money to buy the necessities Of life
Nothing has come through to indi- and are just the sort of people that
cate what preparation has been made the fund is supposed to reach. There
by the Bulgarians to offset, a probable ..are at leapt 150 .men. in: the settlements
attack by the Roumanians along the bordering on Hickory creek ;who" need
Danube front on a possible attempt work and want their- road again,
by the Russians at invasion by means Without the road they , are absolutely
of the Danube and through Dorbuja helpless. This is perhaps the only re
or by the Black sea. It is Estimated gion so situated that the destruction
that -Roumania will be able to throw of the one main road-practically cut
nearly a million1 men into the field.
MISS BROOKS RESIGNS.
- Miss Lillie Brooks has resigned her.; and Broad River change their- courses
position wijth the French Broad Husband cut out the road they have left
ler. She has been connected with the perpendicular banks 15 . to 100 feet
paper for a number of years.: where Iiigh. It will be necessary to leave the
she made many: friends who wish her old location and relocate a road -high-success.
Miss Brooks is an efficient ' er lip over the cliffs. The survey ; is
book keeper and cashier and the Hust-1 now being made for these relocations,
ler force regrets that she has decided! 'There bias been some. delay in get
to make a change. Sbe is now con-Jting the Federal relief to this district,
nected with the Citizens National-Bank but now tt is believed Jhat plan have
of which her father is vice president,
Miss Minnie "Crane,- a . popular young
Hendersonville girl, has" accepted the
position of bookkeeper and cashier of
the -Mutual Printing- company. She.
will "begin her duties . September 4.. Y
SENATOR ALLEN IN TOWN.
Ex-Senator. T. B. Allen spent a day
in the city last week on business.' He
said that the farmers; of Mills River
section had not suffered as much as in
1 other parts of the county. It seems
that- Mills River -aid not carry the
volume of water In . proportionto the
other streams during the recent floods.
When., asked - to place the amount of
damages on his own. farms: the Senator
said that $2,000 would not put the land
back as it was before thefloodsY -:
' 5IMP DOGAN. BUYS HOTEL.
, S. D, Dogan, one of Hendersonville's
leading . negroes, " has' purchased thp
Pace hotel near the depot. -The build
ing is a .large two jstory brick struc
ture and is considered valuable pro
perty. The consideration was around
$5,000; . :.- ...... , - . .
YAsheville Yhas let: a contract - for
erecting a new high .school, building
to cost .?210 CCD. -
--.x 7 . i Y;rrr-- ,, YY-Y Yt- J"
taf (Jeoloffist ratt ?; andJEngineer
; Fallis Talk About Progress n L;
- Fojldwihg the yisitr-o?- irispofiori i ,"of -that
sectdn of.the Charlotte-Asheville
highway that was so severely-damaged
by the July floods and landslides, Dr.
Joseph Hyde Pratt; Stat0 geologist,
and v,; S.Fal I13, .State highway ngi-
- j neer, have announced that rapid work
jof . restoration would be "prosecuted
! from ,this" time on" until-the ,workis
finished says the. Charlotte "Observer.
Ars is a State highway and is there-
fore u rider tbe Supervision of , State
authorities; acting in conjunction with
countyiofficials, - For every dollar do
nated for : road improvement on this
highway, the
State, acting for itself
and the Federal government .is setting
sfslde another dollar.
In talking about- this road, Dr. Pratt
had the.follaWirigljto say: . -
. "While I . was In Rutherfordton final
arrangements 3 were inade.wtb the
commissioners ; in : Rutherford - County
to put three crews Jof Y men; on the
Rutherfordton County section of tho
;.Hickpry. Nut Gap . highwayone; crew
to work i rom the lower fordon ths
Broad River to . Rutherf fordton ; one
between this point;and - Chimney Rock
and the third7 between Chimney" Rock
and the Henderson county line. "
"Tha work will be done by the coun
ty under the supervision of ' the : State
Highway Commission who will keep
an engineer on it until , the highway is
are impatssable places.
Y "Opening a Road.;
Throlagh the government aid fund
an opening is bein paade in the road
I rrpnL jj-xacK'a 10 a&i cave. -1 ms means
- i11 the road , is being gotfen'in such
can . Pass over it
'Now and. heretofore since-the flood,
J travelchas been possible only on foot,
The road inoBat: Cave will be opened.
toxyi&t postfioa
Bat Cave and ' Gerton except " on- foot;
The people have to bring in all their,
supplies on their backs. This is one
jun intercourse, wnn uie ouusiae wona
except Dy toot. -
In several places along the Hickory
wut Gap road where Hickory creek
j been perfeced so that the 150 men
needing work can be employed at once
ia opening the -road.! One crew has.'
been at work- from the Hickory. Nut
Gap enw and has the road open to Ger
ton so that autos can now come from
Asheville to Gerjton, this later -place
being" about ,one and. one-half miles
from the top of the mountain. 0
FRANK PACE RAISES Y Y Y
: Y SOME FINE : POTATOES
. Four large Irish potatoes on 'display
in the window of the FUrst-Bank and
Trust company, have attracted a great
deal of attention. Y The potatoes were
raised by Frank Pace of this county
and wegh a total of .four pounds and
ten ounces, the largest wetfehing one
pound ; and three and a half ounces.-.
Mr. Pace has an acre In potatoes frora;
which he expects to gather 250 bush-,
els. The soil of this county ts fine for
growing Irish, potatoes and ' Mr.Pace
seems to be settiiig the pace. ... Such
potatoes as he has on display here
would have no trouble in being prtjze
winners at any big fair. : - .. .
Beginning Monday "at 11 o'clock int.
this city a series oi Republican speak
ing will" be held in ' every voting pre
cinct in the county. It i3 stated that
Hughes-Britt clubs will "be 'organized.
