THE" ''BARRE DAILY? TIME
VOL. XX NO. 143.
HAlUtK, VEKMOXT. TIIUJtSDAV, AUC.UST 31, 191(1.
PJUCK. ONE CENT.
4
RAILROADS ARE
EXPECTING TO
I HAVE A STRIKE
Presidents and Operating
Officials Went into Con
ference in Chicago To-day
to Formulate Plans for
Operating Trains in the
Event of a Strike
der were flashed to ticket gent to in
form nessenuer that miles they reach
their detintion by Sunday night they
may be subjected to perplexing ut-iay.
ONE PASSENGER
TRAIN A DAY FOR EACH
Preference AVilI Be Given on
All Lines for Milk Trains
Optimism Felt in Wash
ington Is Not Shared by
Railroad Heads and Other
Officials ; . ,
CONDUCTORS' UNION
IS ENJOINED FROM
GOING ON STRIKE
Judge In Omaha Court Issued Order on
Petition of a Member of the Union
Who Declare He Want to
Continue at Work.
Omaha, Neb., Aug. 30. Judge Willi
E. Scar of the district court of Pouglu
county to-day issued an order restraining
the local official of the Order of Hallway
Conductor from calling or enforcing
strike ou the line of the I'nion Pacific
railroad. The order w issued on th
petition of Edwin Hamilton, a conduct"
on the Union Pacific line and a member
of the order, who declare that he and
many other employe of the road desire
to continue at work.
PENNSYLVANIA HAS
MOST VETERANS
Chicago, Aug. 31. The president and
operating official of the railroads of the
country were in conference to-day for
the purpose of formulating plan to op
erate the trains in the event that a strike
of four brotherhood takvs place Monda
Virtually none of the railroad heat
shared in the optimism expressed in some
quarters at Washington that tne passage
of an eii?ht-hour bill bv CongTess would
avert a strike.
Railroad officials planned to run
least one passenger train daily on every
road and in each case to give preferenc-
to milk trains.
CENTRAL VERMONT
IS NOT A PARTY
TO NEGOTIATIONS
Pres. E. C. Smith Notified Association of
Railroad Presidents THat He Will
Not Act in Connection
with Them.
Burlington, Aug. 31. The Central Ver
mont railway in the event of a strike
will treat with its men independently.
so a high official of the road said last
night. President Edward C. Smith has
notified the Association of Railroad Pre
idents that he will not, act in concert
with them. In so doing he has not been
alone. Several president of the smaller
railroads, east and west, have done the
same.
The men themselves, this same offi
cial said, have not voted with their fel
lows on the big four brotherhoods to go
on strike. Like thousand of employe
of the Pennsylvania and one or two
smaller systems, they have taken no
positive action. So far as known they
have kept out of it a far a possible
There are at present about 100 con
ductors, 200 brakemen, including tram
men, 100 firemen, 100 engineer and 50
vardmen who would be affected in case
they joined in a general country-wide
strike. The Central Vermont l short'
handed at present.
"The relations which exist between the
railroad officials and the men at the
present time we consider very friendly,"
said the.onicial m question, ihe men
had never struck, he added, and they
were receiving standard pay, the same
wages as prevailed on the big railroads.
The Central Vermont, said the official,
'was in a peculiar position because of its
affiliated ownership with the Grand
Trunk. The latter, along with the Cana
dian Pacific and the other Canadian
roads, is in little danger of a Btrike un
til after the war, although they all be
long to the International brotherhood,
The latter network the whole continent
and ordinarily Canada would be a much
involved as the United States in case of a
general strike.
The Canadian member of the four
brotherhoods, however, the C. V. official
declarer, have as much as promised not
to strike while the great war is in prog
gress. Simply from patriotic motive
and from a realization of the "extent to
which the mother country depend upon
Canada for supplies the men have said
they would remain loyal.
A report to the effect that the em
ploye of the Central Vermont are not
affiliated with tne big four is untrue.
The report said that the local lodge
split off several year ago. The lodges
of both railroads are affiliated but there
is no cast iron rule against their refug
ing to abide by a general strike order of
the leader of the big four.
RAILROADS RUSH
EMBARGO ORDERS
Some Have Already Refused to Take
Shipments of Livestock and Perish
ables Even Passenger are
Warned They May Be
Delayed.
Chicago, Aug. 30. The railroads of the
nations rushed preparation to-day to
enforce an embargo on perishable freight.
Shipment of livestock and perishables
were refused on some roda to-day. Oth
ers issued a warning that perishables
which cannot reach their destination by
Saturday cannot be accepted.
Associated Pre dispatches from H
parts of the country indicated that with
in 49 hours, un'es a delay in the strike
i order, embargo order will be effective
nn virtually every railroad. From Chica
go, tie railroad center of the country, cr-1
Report Submitted To-day Show Tha
Keystone State Has Slightly Gone
Ahead of New York Ver
mont Has 1,725 Veterans.
Kansas City, Mo., Aug. 31. rennsyl
vania has passed New York in the num
ber of members in the Grand Army of
the Republic. Reports made at the an
nual business session of the order to-day
show that Pennsylvania veterans now to
tal 15,8110, while New York is second
with 15.576. Ohio rank third with
15,045.
The toal membership was shown by
the reports as Hfl.07-1. The loss in mem
bership during the year was given as
10.808 and the present number or post
was placed at 5,342, a total of 110 having
passed out of existence in the last 12
months.
The figures compiled by John Af.
Adams of Cincinnati, adjutant general
of the organization, showing the mem
bership for the various departments are
a follows;
Alabama, 80; Ariwma, 102; Arkansas,
331 ; California and Nevada, 5.55fi; Colo
rado and Wyoming, 1,774; Connecticut,
2,181; Delaware, 358; Illinois, 11,101; In
diana, 8,o7; Iowa, 7.9P3; Kansas. 7.7SS;
Florida, 691; Georgia and South Caro
lina, 176; Idaho. 403; Kentucky, B!3
Louisiana and Mississippi, 500; Maine,
2,S02; Maryland, 1,257; Massachusetts,
9,08fi; Michigan, fi,!)5; Minnesota, Z,WU ;
Missouri, 4,287; Montana, 319; Nebraska,
3,132; New Hampshire, 1.4K3; New Jer
sey, 2,665; New Mexico, 117; New York,
15,576; North Dakota, 237; Ohio, 15,045;
Oklalioma, 1,414; Oregon, 1,842; Penn
sylvania, 15,890; Potomac, 1.239; Rhode
Island, 990) South Dakota, 785; Tennes
see, 820; Texas, 328; Utah, 223; Ver
mont, 1,725; Virginia and North Caro
lina, 380; Washington and Alaska, 2,714;
West Virginia, 935; Wisconsin, 4,908.
K. OF P. OFFICERS
C. M. Willey of Barre Was Elected Grand
Chancellor.
Bellows Fall, Aug. 31. The 28th an
nual convention of the grand lodge of
Knight of Pythm was held here yes
terday. The 35 lodge of the state were
represented. Reports of officer showed
a splendid increase in membership dur
ing the year and that the financial con
dition of the order Is satisfactory.
These officers were elected: (!. M. Wil
ey of Barre, G. C; Eugene J. Berry of
Essex Junction, G. V. C; A. L. Guild of
Lyndonville, G. P.; Frank E. Robinson
of Barre, G. K. R, G; George D. French
of Bellow Falls, G. M. E.; W. F. Morong
of Island Pond, G. M. A.; R. S. Warner
of Johnson, G. I. G.; J. G. Hoyt of St.
Albans, G.0. G.; L. F. Gilbert of Rut
land, M. Friedlander of Burlington, Wal
do H. Farrar of Montpelier, G. T. ; F, A.
Whitaker of Bellows Falls, P. G. C.
The annual convention of the grand
temple of Pythian Sisters was held in
Odd Fellows' hall. Fifteen of the 17
temples were represented. Grand Chief
Maude Howieson of Hardwick presided
and during the session was presented a
bouquet of roses by the sisters of the
temple. All the grand officers were pres
ent. Reports showed a flourishing condi
tion in all departments, the order being
especially strong In it altruistic, work.
lnese otlleers were elected: Jessie far
rar of Hardwick, G. C; Lillian Zottman
of Montpelier, G. S. C; Emma Brainerd
f Bellows Falls, G. J. C; Maude Derrick
of St. Albans, G. M.; Rachel Sumner of
Montpelier, G. K. R. C; Maude Hunt of
Troy, G. P.; Maude Pierce of Hardwick,
G.
BULGARIANS -LOST
15,000
IN BIGCHECK
Serbians on the Left Flank
of the Entente Allies in the
Balkans Inflicted a Severe
Reverse When Bulgarians
Attacked in Close Forma
tion
SERBIANS MASTERS
OF THE SITUATION
Gomichevo Battle. Is Called
by the Bulgarians Anoth
er Verdun Greece Is Ex
pected to Break Over Her
Neutrality Within a Peri
od of 48 Hours
London, Aug. 31. Fighting Is very se
vere all along the Macedonian tront,
sav an Athens dispatch to the wireless
Press, which adds that Bulgarian regi
ments have suffered a severe check at the
hands of the Serbians on the entente
left flank and that tha Bulgarian losses
are estimated at 13,000. The Bulgarian
regiments, say the dispatch, attacked
the Serbian in a close formation aften
the German style near Iorovit.ra and
suffered severely. They were compelled
to ask for reinforcements.
The Serbians appear to be master of
the situation at Gomichevo, say the
Athens correspondent, and the Bulgarian
officers of Rumania origin were deserted.
The Bulgarian called Gomichevo anoth
er Verdun.
FAIRBANKS ACCEPTS
THE NOMINATION
WITH PLEASURE
GERMANS EJECTED
4 -nmiTir h',t-.t-.t-i nitrui
IN FRENCH TRENCHES
They Had Penetrated Line in Parroy
Forest, in Lorraine, When French
Recovered and Drove Them Back
Paris, . Aug. 31. The German troop
penetrated the French trenches in Par
roy forest in Lorraine, last night, but
were immediately ejected by counter
ttacks, say to-day war office an
nouncement.
GREECE ENTERTAINS
ALLIES' MINISTERS
IN CONFERENCE
Declare It la an Honor Which Any Pa
triottc American Might Covet and
H Pledged Serioua Service
During Campaign.
Indianapolis, Ind., Aug. 31. Accepting
the nomination for the vieepreidency
of the Culled &tt, on the Republic
ticket, Charle Warren Fairbanks to-day
wilif in rti
"I am deeply sensible of the high honor
of the commission winch you bring nie
To be rhoten a the candidate of the Re.
publican party for the vice presidency of
the nited Mates i distinction wnien
any patriotic American may well covet
I accept the nomination and pledge you
niv utmost service during the campaign,
If the eople ratify the rhoicw of the eon
vention 1 hll consecrate mv best ef
fort to the discharge of my official fune
tion. A you are aware, this i a call
which wa unsolicited bv tnw; that fsct
intensifies my sense of duty to those in
behalf of whom you speak.
"The platform adopted by the Chicago
convention ha my hearty approval. Car
ried into the public administration and
written into the statute it will insure
industrial and national prosperity during
the vear of our ascendancy.
Tiiis i an hour when we must put
our faith to the test. We should have
nothing hort of the best political party
in the management of the vast and com
plicated mechanism of our government
"We have before u for our Judgment
the platform of the political parties
which are appealing for the popular ut
rfaee. The J)cmoeratic party ha estab
lislied an unchallenged reputation for the
repudiation of its platform utterances at
its will. We never know what covenant
t will keep or what it will reject when
lothed with power.
"Political parties have Individualities
by which we may easily identify them.
We readily recognize the Republican
party by its long and successful conduct
of the public business its efficient ad
ministration of our political concerns. It
has been a pledge-making and a pledge
redeeming party. To keep faith with
the people ha been it supreme desire.
"( ne of the greatest problem which
present itself for our solution goes to
the very root of our national prosperity
and to the contentment of millions of
our countrymen. We may take counsel
of our friends who are engaged in the
great war. Although the hour of peace
is beyond their vision, they are already
planning with reference to their indus
trial affairs when they leave the trenche.
We have given much thought to military
invasion. We should prepare lor com
mercial invasion which would paralyze
American industry and blight our hap
piness.
78 CASES FOR TRIAL
Rapid Developments in Diplomatic Sit
uation are Said to Presage Early
Entrance of That Nation
Into the War.
Athens, via London, Aug. 31. Rapid
developments in the diplomatic situation
to-day made it appear that within 48
hours Greece will have abandoned neu
trality in the war. King Constantino
ill receive the Trench minister Thurs-
ay and the Russian and British minis
ters shortly afterwards. All staff offi
cers on leave have been recalled for ac
tive service.
KING MAY HAVE FLED.
DEATH OF PLAINFIELD GIRL
Mws Maud Towasend Died" of Infantile
Paralysis at Jersey City.
Word was received In Barre and Plain-
field to-day of the death at a hospital in
jersey city, . J., of .Mis Maud Town-
send, a well known Plainfield young
woman, irom lniantue paralysis. Death
occurred last evening, the young lady
having been taken sick a week or 10 da v
ago while she was employed in a summer
hotel In As bury Park, N. J. She wa
promptly removed to the hospital in Jer
sey City, where she continued to decline
rapidly. The remains are to be brought
to Plainfield early Thursday morning.
Jliss Townsend was the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Townsend, and she
also leaTe a sister. Miss Minnie Town
send. Mra. Frank Trow of Barre Town
is an aunt of the young woman. In
Plainfield, where the young woman was
bom and received her education, she was
very popular. She went to Ashurv Park
early in the summer to be employed in a
noteL
Is the Sensation Which is Stirring Peo
ple in Greece.
London, Aug. 31. The British press
representative at Saloniki, Ward Price,
sends a report which is current there
that King Constantine of Greece ha fled
to Larissa, in Thessaly, to take refuge
ith a guard of 300 Uhlans. The test
of the official message which is dated
Tuesday, reads:
"This evening's sensation is that King
Constantine has fled from Athens to
take refuge with a German escort of 300
Uhlans, who have been awaiting birn
several day at Larissa. -
"Another report is that the allies hate
already landed a strong force at Piraeus,
which has been heavily engaged with
the Greek army in battle around the
king's country house at Tatol, where
several Greek princes have already fall
en. Perhaps to-morrow will bring more
light upon the situation, which i extra
ordinarily involved even for the Bal
kans."
ONLY ARTILLERY ACTIVITY.
On Struma and Doiran Fronts, Says Lon
don Official Announcement.
London, Aug. 31. Except for artillery
activity there were no developments on
our Struma or Doiran fronts, says the
official announcement in regard to the
Macedonian campaign.
GERMANY DISAVOWS
UNFRIENDLY INTENT
IN FIRING ON OWEGO
Note Received by State Department of
Facta Regarding Attack on Ameri
can Steamer and Statement
Expected to Close
the Case.
Washington, Aug. 31. Germany, In a
note received at the state department
to-day, practically disavow any un
friendly intention in the submarine at
tacks on the American steamer, Owego,
several week ago and submits a state
ment of fact which is expected to dose !
the rae. The Owego was fired upon in '
the fog but wa not injured.
When September Term of Washington
County Court Convenes.
There are 34 case set for jury trial at
the September term of Washington coun
ty court which opens in Montpelier Tues
day, Sept. 12, with Judge Fish presiding,
and 44 cases on the court calendar. Ar
rangements have been mide, because of
the primaries, to have court formally
opened on the regular day but the jury
will not be asked to report until v ednes
daSept. 13.
Following is the list of jury cases:
A. H. and L. H. Lippencott vs. A. Mal
nati & Co., general assumpsit; Worcester
Cigar Co. vs. Antonio Romania, apt.,
case; Union Meeting House society vs.
A. F. Davis, trespass; Braekett-Shaw-Lunt
Co. vs. Luke Tarbell, trover; F. and
Paulina Ottonelli '.. Mary and Charles
Zanleoni, apt, general assumpsit; Frank
II. Nichols vs. G. M. Emerson, general
assumpsit; ICattie M. Gordon vs. Peter
Badord, trespass; Bernice Wilkin vs.
Joseph Jobin. trespass; Beatrice J. Tracy
vs. Forest Tibbctts, trespass; Irvin J.
Boyce vs. Fred A. Millan, case; Henry
W. Knight vs. Arthur W. Macy Xeil et
al, general assumpsit; Nellie H. Morse
ex. vs. John Healv, general assumpsit.
Second day, Thursday: Nellie H.
Morse, ex. vs. Dorwin W. Cooley; Nellie
H. Morse, ex., vs. Fred A. Jewett, gen
eral assumpsit; Arthur Barber vs. Jacob
Aaron, case; Harry H. Martin vs. George
I. LaBarr, trespass; John L. Spauldmg,
adm.. et al vs. Mutual Life Insurance Co,
of New York, assumpsit; Elroy F. Lcav-
itt vs. H. Blanch Perrm and Lamoille
Saving bank, Montpelier, Savings bank
Capital Savings bank, Granite Savings
bank and Bane Savings bank, general
assumpsit; Simeon Swerdfeger vs. Edgar
Taft, supersedeas; J rank J. George vs.
Ala McAullough, general assumpsit; G.
K. Kianchi Granite to. vs. JIurlev and
Carroll, apts.; Helen M. Brown vs. W. E,
Jackson and J. R. Fitzgerald, Alice P.
Lazelle and Montpelier Savings Bank &
Crust Co., general assumpsit.
Third day, Friday, Sept. 15: Henrietta
Gazzoni vs. Robert Columbo and Luigi
( olumbo, trespass; I harle Barclay vs
Wetmore & Morse Granite Co., ease; H,
F. Cutler vs. Elizabeth W. Hebard et al,
general assumpsit; Antonio Ghillani vs,
Pietro Catelli, general assumpsit; A. Mc
intosh & Co. vs. R. C. Bow.-rs Granite
Co., general assumpsit; in re estate of
George W. Morse, Nellie II. Morse, ex
ecutrix, apt., appeal from commissioners;
Noberto Garcia vs. Louis Canales. tres
pass; Gasparello Bros. vs. John Rosso,
general assumpsit;- Henry Russ vs. Mi
ehaelGood, trespass; Clarence E. Foley
vs. Evelyn Wales, general assumpsit;
Charles Bianchi A Sons vs. Montpelier 4.
Wells River Railroad Co., rase; E. D.
Bartlett et al vs. Antonio Bonazzi, de
ceit.
VERMONTERS
BACK IN CAMP
Trip of Troops to Eagle Pass
Abandoned Because of
Threatened Strike
RAILROADS COULD NOT
GUARANTEE ARRIVAL
Detachment Had Reached
Brattleboro When Or
dered to Return
Burlington, Aug. 31 The 300 Vermont
National Guardsmen who left the state
mobilisation camp near Fort Ethan Al
len yesterday afternoon to join the regi
nient of Vermont troop at Katie Pass,
Tex, returned to Camp Gates to-day,
having abandoned the trip because, ac
cording to an officer, the railroad cou'd
not guarantee their arrival at the liordcr
before tha time et for tha railroad
strike. The troop had reached Brat
tleboro, when order came to return to
camp.
15,000 TROOPS ARE
ORDERED HOME
Vermont Soldiers Now on the Mexican
Border Are Not Included in the
Sudden Reversal by the
War Department.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 31. Orders
for the return to their state mobilization
camp of 15,000 national guardsmen now
on the Mexican border were issued last
night by the war department. General
lunston was directed to return three
regjments from New York, two from New
Jersey, two from Illinois, two from -Mis
souri and one each from California, Ore
gon, Washington and Louisiana.
Secretary Haker announced the order
fter a conference with President Wilson
t the White House. Earlier in the day,
he department had ordered to their home
stations 6,000 regular coast, artillerymen
who have been serving a infantry ou the
border.
The secretary in a statement last night
said that in a few days, if transportation
facilities remain undisturbed, the depart
imnt intends to onjpr home more regi
ments.
Regiments to be sent home were not
designated by number, and it is under
stood that their selection is left to Gen-
ral Funston.
The policy now i to give all of the
state troops called into the federal serv
ice opportunity to see service on war
footing along the international line.
'Withdrawal of General Pershing ex-
ptdition in Mexico, which is expected to
follow soon after tJie meeting or tne
Mexican-American joint commission at
Portsmouth, Jv. H., probably will lead to
the early return home of all the guards
men.
PROPOSE TO RUY RAILS
FOR STREET CAR LINE
Because Barre & Montpelier Traction &
Power Co. Ha Persistently Refused
to Make the Purchase in Order
to Permit Laying of Perma
nent Street.
GALA TIME IN
WILLIAMSTOWN
San Antonio, Texas, Auk. 31. The first
movement of national guardsmen desig
nated to return to their state mobiliza
tion camps from the border may take
ace within the next IS hours, General
unston said last night, after he had re
ceived order from the war department.
It i expected that the movement
northward will be well under way by
Friday or Saturday.
DIED OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS.
SOLDIER'S BODY ARRIVES.
Private Henry Lawton Died at Eagle
Pass Camp. .
St. Albans, Aug. 31. The remains of
Private Henry Lawton of Co. B, V. N. G.,
who died at the post hospital at Eagle
Pass, Tex., last Saturday, - reached here
last evening on train No. 3, due at 8
o'clock. Although it was two hours late,
the crowd that thronged the station
waited till its arrival. Chaplain John
M. Thomas of Middlebury accompanied
the remains here, and also Privates Floyd
H. Richards of Walnut street and George
W. Porter of Laconia, N. H., members of
Co. B, who recently received their dis
charges. Mr. Lawton' father, John
Lawton, met the. body in Burlington.
At the station were members of the
three fraternal orders to which the de
ceased guardsmen belonged, the Eagles,
Forester and Masons and memhers ..of
the Stranahan club, also members of A.
R. Hurlbut post, No. 60, G. A. R.
FOR ANCILLARY RECEIVER
Nurse Maid Who Had Been Employed at
Poultney.
Rutland, Aug. 31 .Jennie Hoyt. daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. William Holt of
TruthviHe. N. Y.. a hamlet near North
Granville, X. Y., died yesterday morning
from infantile paralysis, the jfirl cad t intr named defendant in the case. Judge
been employed as a nurse maid for some I Howe will appoint Mr. Hustis. A ro
little children of city parents who ha receiver was also asked for thi road bv
been guests t "The Dorms" at Troy j yr Whitney.
Petition Presented in United States Dis
trict Court at Montpelier,
Application for the appointment, of a
temporary ancillary receiver of Boston
& Maine railroad- properties in Vermont
was made last night before Judge Har-
land B. Howe, in the United State dis
trict court in proceedings brought by the
International Rubber Co. against the
Boston A Maine.
The judge indicated that lie would ap
point James H. Hustis of Winchester,
Mass. His bond to be $.50,000.
The Brattleboro Trust Co. and James
M. Tyler, holder of Boston ft Maine se
curities, asked leave to Intervene and file
a petition for the appointment of a ro
receiver domiciled in Vermont. This
question was not decided.
Edward H. Deavitt of Montpelier ap
peared for the petitioners. John (J. Sar-
(rent for the Boston 4 Maine, and Harold
D. Whitney for the Brattleboro Tnift
Co.
At the same hearing receiver was
a-ked for the Vermont Valley railroad.
the IWton Safe Deposit 4 Trust Co. be
lli the face of a refusal on the part of
the Barre 4 Montpelier Traction 4 Pow
er Co. to nosunii) its legal share of th
expense incident to building perman' ."'
highway on Washington and S .v
Main streets, the sldermanic street (N
mittee went to the city council ir e
cial session lat night for autl..." to
luiy the type of car rails that must be
used vhcreer paving or cement highway
is introduced. Bv a margin of one vote
the committee obtained the neresary
sanction. Opponent to the promsal
based their objection on the ground that
the railway is legally hound by it fran
chise to furnihh the rails and that the
finances of the city will pot permit the
additional expenditure.
On the rolhall Mavor Gordon and Al
dermen GlvsKon. llealy and Bruce voted
in favor of authorization and they were
opposed by Aldermen Shurtleir, Reynolds
and Rossi.
Chairman Glysson, reporting for the
street committee, stated that the trac
tion people had reiieatedlv refused to
bide bv the franchise to the extent of
buying the rails ami that the committee
had discovered a place where rail may
be purchased, even though steel rails are
scarcity at this time. It was repre
sented that the rails needed, if perma
nent highway are to be built on Wash
ington and South Main streets, must be
nine inches hih anil weigh 10(1 pounds
to the yard. They are of the tvpe known
a girder rails, which are heavier and
hicher than the traction rails used in
gravel rnadlied. The committee strongly
recommended the purchase for the. rea
son that the scarcity of rails may con
tinue indefinitely. Moreover, it was in-
imated that the cement highway on
Washington street may be put in this
fall.
Opposition to the report was grounded
the tielief on the part of Aldermen
Shurtleff, Reynolds and Rossi that the
treet department finances are at an un
usually low ebb, with four months of
the fiscal year remaining. The claim was
made that all of the $10,000 appropriated
or streets in the yearly budget has been
expended, in addition to an extra appro
priation of $3,100 tor a street department
motor truck. Ihe opposition figured
hat the rails will mean an extra expen-
iture of i?".-00 over and above the 4,-
Oflfl appropriated by the city for the
South Main street projects and the state
aid money, council appropriation and
abutters" portion of the money needed
to finance the Washington street high
way. Ihe sum of ?7..rjiH expended tor
rails, it was said, represented money
which the traction company should pay
instead of the city, unless it chooses to
abrogate the franchise granted when the
road wa established.
Stress was laid cm the delays already
encountered in bringing plans for the two
proposed highways to a head and the
street committee went on record as fa
voring any move that would hasten the
day when two much discussed projects
are completed.
Before adjournment came, the council
played a hummer tattoo on the Tenney
company for alleged derelication in the
matter of furnishing adequate street
lights. It was asserted that the com
pany officials are notoriously careless in
the matter of replacing incandescent
lamps that have outlived their usefulness
and by way of showing the illumination
people that they mean business in the
matter of enforcing their contract with
the house of Tonney, the councilmen
voted to levy a charge of $7 for the ab
sence of illumination at the farther end
of Beckley street. At the rate of SI per
night for every night that inhabitants in
that section were without a street light,
it was decided to subtract $7 from the
next lighting bill.
Previous to the council meeting the
aldermanic finance committee came to
gether to pass on a number of bills ren
dered since last week. While the com--
mitteenien were at work it was stated
that warrant necessary to cancel out
standing bills in the street department
would exhaust the appropriation tor the
vear.
7ne Celebration of Old
jme Week Is Attract
ing a Large Crowd
1
BEAUTIFUL PARADE
ON OPENING DAY
Reception Last Evening Was
Attended bv Manv
REFUSING LIVESTOCK SHIPMENTS
Conference academy in roultney. She
was taken ill Saturday, suffering from
typhoid symptoms and she as removH
to her home in TruthviHe hr automobile
Monday morulas. She declined rapidly
and lr. C. S. t av-rlv. president "f t'se
Vermont stt bocrd of health dia ,-nod
the ias a infantile par!yi.
The court w told that fIS.noo.ono of
Boston Maine note and upward of
fj.noo.ooo of the Vermont Valley", are
due to-day.
The Vermont Val! ev stork is owned bv
the (Vmnertient River railroad, and it-
lf own the Montpelier 4 Wells Rir
railroad and Barre 4 C-elsea railroad.
Barre Agent of Montpetier & Wells River
Road Gets Order.
Shipments of livestock and perishable
goods were practically at a standstill in
the Montpelier &. Wells River freight
yard to-day in consequence of an order
received at the freight station Wednes
day afternoon at 4 o'clock. The order,
in effect, inhibits the local freight agent
from accepting for shipment any freight
of the class mentioned in the foregoing
that cannot reach its destination before
Monday morning. There is very little
incoming freight, of this sort and to-day
the freight agent was notified that ship
ments of perishable goods consigned to
Barre must not lie accepted here. "'Dead"
freight is accented for shipment, al
though there will be a congestion of
freight of this kind if there is a railroad
strike Monday.
To-morrow is shipping day Jrr local
buyers who weekly consign cattle and
swine to the Brighton market. .Hut the
order received yesterday will act as an
estoppel on shipments of this character!
and buyers to-day were not making the j
usual preparations tor a big volume of I
Friday morning business in the Mont
pelier 4 Wells Kiver freight yard. At
taches at the Barre freight station say
that the Boston 4 Maine embargo is on
tight. Such a well-known commodity as
!ecr cannot le received and the lid on
shipments of butter. cj:g-s and the like is
not likely to he lifted for some days.
l-cs apprehension i felt in Central
Vermont freight i in lcs, as it hss been
intimated that Central Verm .nt tnin-
llH-n will nu , iu-ii' r in -ii;iv--. : c . .
. .. ' , .i T...,i- beginning to-morrow, Sept. I, the price
Trams on the K anacian t-raml 1 runs. f " 11
lines will 1-e ..pen ted usual and a ci milk retailed in Barre will be seven
strike probably w.-uld ii"t affect thfnts a quart instead of six cent a
freight and pa-erg-r schedule i.f thejj,,, llWn pa j. during the past four
Central Wrtivnt m 'r-i 1. Jiut vith art, v- ,. .n j i
, , , . i . i mrt ns. He ptated lui ther that ll 0al-
emUargn a the uthern end of the l-ne i . ...
and n alwavi effe me embargo on t i-r in U.rre ere concerned in the pro
the Canadian' harder, the effe t f Mting i peeri jncre.. The casise of the raise
one mad in V. rm cit Jlr.t i- n t !t- . v.as gn.n as the increases! eost of tl
turSed bv a tuC. - ni l t- .:iiaHy ' milk C lie J. kr. charged by the pro
aaUei ' ducar. .
Willianistown, Aug. 31. The first of
the two big days of Willmmstouii Old
Home week celebration opened conspic
uously yesterday morning, the. weather
man kindly postponing hi promised
shower till late in the afternoon and do-
nating the finest of weather for the
parade which was the opening event. By
ten o'clock bunting and the glad hand
were well in evidence on tho strata nd
when the parade started around 11
o'clock a goodly crowd of onlookers, vis
itor and resident, was on hand. Xor ;
were they disappointed, for, headed by
Marshal Percy Jeffords of the Williams
town band, a line aggregation of floats,
riders, decorated automobiles, teams, etc.,
marched through the village.
Following the band was a cavalcade
of thirteen young ladies in costume, then '
came the fire department apparatus and
then more than a dozen very tastefully ;
decorated motors and horse-drawn ve-;
hides. A novel and interesting feature '
were a number of babies in their car- '
riages, also prettily decorated, while 1
"Gasoline Gus and his Jitney Bus" cre
ated considerable merriment. Fire do-!
part merit Xo. 2 made a good deal of di- ;
version, wet down the street and some '
prominent citizens, and brought up the
rear, all at the same time.
Prizes were given as follows: First,
the Down's store exhibit, motor truck in
white and yellow with Miss Elizabeth
done and Master Richard Downs pour- '
ing conee, making a very cunning pic
ture; second, Betsey Ross float, by the
Woman's Relief corps ih. national colors,
Mrs. Briggs representing Betsey Ross
making the flag; third, Rebekah at the'
Well (in white), drawn bv a fine black
span and presented by the local lodgo
of Rebekahs. Other reprcsentatd in
the procession were, the Village Improve
ment society, Patron of Husbandry,
Loyal Temperance Legion, Rural Good
Luck club, Charles 51. Seaver Co., Hoyt, ,
McAllister, Martin company, and Charles
H. Beckett. The judges were Mr. Julia,
Simonds, J. McCalie and Judge Charles
H. Bassett.
( The features of the afternoon were a
concert by the band, given at the ball ;
grounds and a ball game between the
Mohawks and the business men, in which .
the latter were having, considcrhly the
worst of it until it was stopped by the
rain after having gone six innings. The
score stood then something like 8 to 3
against them.
By 8 p. m. the grange hall wa well;
filled by those in attendance at the re-!
ception scheduled for the hour, and a,'
very pleasant social hour ensued. Words
of welcome were spoken bv Rev. John
Irons. Music was contributed by Mrs.
Blanche Xixon Poor and a male quartet'
and Rev. John Q. Angell, now of Wal-;
den, and formerly the M. E, church pas-;
tor in this town, gave an excellent ad
dress, followed by brief words from
Judge F. J. Martin of Barre and Dr.
L. 1). Martin of Barre, both Williams-
town boys. Fruit was served to the
whole company over which many remin
iseenses were doubtless exchanged and a
very successful day was brought to a
pleasant close.
COMES TO BARRE NEXT YEAR.
TJniversalist Convention Also Re-electa
0. K. Hollister President.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 31. The 84th an
nual session of the Cniversalist conven
tion of Vermont and the Province of
Quebec elected officers as follows yester
day afternoon: President, 0. K. Hollis-:
ter, Barre; vice president, George C. F.
Felch. St. Johnsbury; secretary, Rev.
George F. Fortier, St. Albans; treasurer,'
S. S. Watson. St. Albans; trustee for
three years,. S. C Greene, St. Albans;!
fellowship commit.ee. Rev. H. A. Park-
hurst, Springfield, Rev. J. B. Reardon,'
Barre, Rev. 11. L. Canfield, Woodstock, A.
L. Cady, Bethel, W. II. Gladding, Ran
dolph; preacher of occasional sermons,
Rev. Clarence U J'.aton, m. jonnsmiry.
The convention will meet next year in
Barre.
The convention adjourned this morn-
inc. I lie omciai atienoanco was
and the total registration of delegate
and visitors was 131. Resolution ot;
thanks to Rev. H. P. Morrell of St. Law-;
rence university. Rev. Edson R, Snyder,
of Cambridge, Mass.,' and Dr. Fred J.
Russell of Brandon were adopted. After
a spirited discussion the convention went
on record as opposed to preparedness.
Addresses were given by Revs. F. Adam,
A. M. Blackford. J. B Reardon, H. L.
Canfield, P. Weller and D. E. Trout.
MILK UP TO 7 CENTS.
Barre Consumer Will Be Charged That
Price To-morrow.
A Barre milk dealer stat -d to-day that,
