ffueumeari Jiews
Largest Circulation (if Any &
Paper In Quay County
t ft
$ Advertisers Know Where to Q
0 Plucc Their Acta $
0
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOI,. XIV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, AUGUST III. HMO
NO. 19
First Annual Cowboys' General Round-up, October 3d, 4th and 5th $2500.00 in Cash Prizes
GEO. A, ZANT
DERED AT HOME 2
MILES FROM TOWN
(ion. A. X.ant. who Willi his Tiiinily
nuni' to Turumeuri tho first f luiii',
was shot ami killed in hi" home two
inilcf southeast of !n.vn Wcdni'd.iv
morning nliout 1:11(1 o'clock hy party
or parties yet unknown to the piihlic.
Tin1 first rt'port i cached here to the
oll'ect that Mr. Xanl hail comniitti'il
suicide by shooting himself with a shot
Klin, hut it was afterwards decided hy
those who witnessed thU situation
and took into consideration the man
ner in which the wound was inflicted,
that the gun was held in other hands
than those of Mr. ant.
Mrs. .mil's brother. Mr. Anderson,
who oiiiih' here about a month ago.
was staying with the family and he
slept on the south porch on a col. He
said he heard the shot but thought it
was someone blasting as the report
was not very loud. Mr, .ant and two
small children were sleeping in the
room where the man was killed, a lit
tle 4-year-old boy being in bed with
t lie lather, the mother and lnly in a
bed about four feel away. Mrs. .ant
came out on the porch and told her
brother that her husband had --hot
himself and (he brother immediately
went to the bed The comfort wis on
lire and he extinguished tne lit anil
put the cover back like it va. Ho
then went to tne home of a ii'dghniir.
Mr. Dodson. who occupies the Fate
place near Tucumcari mountain, lie
told Mr. Dodson, "George has hot
himself, but I don't know whether he
is dead or not." Mr. Dodson. who is
an old friend of the family, coming
here with them last .lime, accompa
nied the brother back home and went
into the room. The whole family was
greatly excited but he did not examine
Mr. .ant to see whether he was dead
or not, but went to the home of Mr.
Standlcy. who lives on the Donohoo
place, and got him to return with him
to the ant home. They made an ex
amination and found that ant was
dead.
Sheriff Ward was notified of the
tragedy and in company with the News
editor was soon on the scene. A glance
at the situation proved the fact that
a coroner's jury and a preliminary ex
amination was necessary, so Mr. Ward
hurried hack to town and took .Judge
McElroy, Dr. I.oming. and a jury to
the home where the remains wero
iewed and members of the family
questioned. Nothing of importance
developed at the inquest except tho
jury was fully convinced that Mr.
ant came to his death by a gun shot
wound inflicted by some party un
known to them. This dKpiovcd tho
assertion that ant shot himself with
a shot-gun, thus committing suicide.
As it appeared to those who mivv
the surroundings Mr. ant was sleep
ing in a bed with his back to the pass
age way between the bed in which he
slept and that in which his wife and
little baby slept. He was lying on his
left side, with his arms and body com
pletely covered with the comfort. The
comfort was evidently nearly touching
his right ear and then doubled back.
The gun, a single barreled shot gun.
was pointed downward with the end
nearly against his neck at the base of
the skull, here it was discharged and
caught the covers on .'ire. When the
cover was straightened up it appeard
like his head was completely covcrd
and the shot was through the cover
theuco into ant's head, but more thor
ough investigation revealed the hole
caused by tire instead of the discharge
passing through same. After enter
ing the head the shot were scattered
in all directions, a hide being torn out
ward over the left eye. The neck and
face wore badly powder burned. The
gun, so the family aid, was in the mid
die of the bed, on top of the cover, in
front of the dead man. This was an
other evidence that it was not suicide.
Knch member of the family wn. qucs
tioited before the jury and those who
should have known just about how the
tragedy was committed, said he shot
himself. They were willing to testify
and readily answered every question
propounded to them. There being no
evidence against any certain person
no arrests were made and there will
likely be none until something more
definite occurs. Murder will out and
the guilty party will sooner or later
he apprehended.
Mr. and Mrs. ant had made many
friends during their short residence
in this locality. They were both about
:ifi years of age and the parent.s of 7
children, the two oldest being boys
less than twenty years of age, and
range down to a baby. Mr. Dodson
speaks in the highest terms of tho fam
ily. He said since the accident which
happened last .June when they were
coming to New Moxico from Texas,
when the windstorm passed through
the county near Dripping Springs, ami
the wagon in which Mrs. ant and tho
small children wore riding, whh blown
over, breaking one of the little boy's
arms, that Mr. ant strained hit back
lifting the wagon up so that they
could free themselves, he has com
plained with the leaders in his neck
hurting and suffered considerable with
the headache. They also said he was
somewhat despondent because of the
dry weather. He and one of the hoys
were in Tucumcari Tuesday, working
for .loe Kit-., hauling sand. They re
turned home and Mr. ant said he had
the headache. He retired about r.ine
o'clock, but Mr1, ant and other mem
bers of the household remained up a
while longer. The homefolks say they
cannot account for him taking his own
life as he had never made any threats.
Financially lie was in good shape, hav
ing a number of horses and cattle. He
owned ISO acres of laud and paid for
it when he sold two farms near Moron,
in Stephens county, Texas.
MAN LEAVES FAMILY IN
HAM) CIRCUMSTANCES
.1. D. Pierce, administrator, is ad
vertising a sale at the farm of Mrs.
liallie Mackinzie, southwest of For
rest, for Tuesday, Sept. fi, when a nice
lot of stock will he sold to pay olF
mortgages contracted hy Mrs. Mac
Mime's husband before he left for
parts unknown.
A few months ago Mrs. Mackinzie,
then Mrs. Hallie Robertson, a prosper
ous young widow, met and married
Mackenzie, and most everybody in
that section of the county thought she
was doing the right thing, as she had
a nice farm, considerable stock and
was fairly well fixed financially, be
ing mit of debt, and having four small
children to care for.
Mackinzie and Mrs. Hobertson were
married in Tucumcari hy the Rev.
Sam Taylor of the Baptist church.
When Mr. Taylor had finished the cer
emony Mackinzie stepped over and
put a one-dollar bill in the minister's
pocket. Mr. Taylor did not look at
the money until the couple left and
you can imagine his chagrin when he
saw the small sum it called for.
On their way home Mackinzie told
his companions that he gave the min
ister Sfi.OO. From that time on he
sold his wife's property and what he
did not sell ho mortgaged sometimes
two or three times. When he had
disposed of all the property ho drew
all the ready cash from the hank at
Melrose and cashed some worthless
checks and left for others worlds to
conquer goodness knows where.
There is no law severe enough to
punish such a man here on earth and
there is a question whether the old
devil himself will do the job satisfac
torily. I here have been several sug
gestions made as to the mode of pun
ishment, but most of them are not fit
to publish. Mrs. Mackinzie now lias
five small children to care for and no
money or property. Those who can
should attend the sale next Tuesday
and see that everything brings top
prices.
SCHOOL HONDS BRING BET
TER THAN $1000.00 PREMIUM
The school bonds were sold through
the First National Dank to Knhinson
& .Sandburg of Denver, Colo, at a pre
mium of over $1(10(1 for the sX.0,000.
The actual bid being So0,7ol with in
terest and other valuable assets mak
ing the aggregate amount to So 1,028.
This shows what outsiders think of
Tucumcari and her future. They are
willing to risk thousands of dollars
for school purposes because they are
sure any live town will make an extra
effort to keep the schools in Al con
dition.
The plans as specified for the new
buildings as drawn hy Architect Pierce
of Amarillo, were somewhat stout for
present day prices of material. It is
said that he used the same specifica
tions back in Texas and they were put
through at the value, or nearly so. that
he estimated. There were seven bid
ders for the construction of the two
buildings and they ranged from $(11000
down to $14,9110, As the lionrd can
not use that much in the building it
was necessary to reject all bids.
Another meeting of the hoard was
held Tuesday and it was decided to
cut out some of tho detail work and
give the contractors another chance
to figure on tho job. There is no
doubt about the bids being low enough
next time, but tho cheapest is not al
ways tho best. It might lie well for
the board to make it the cheapest and
best bid.
Monday a lively scrap occurred in
the lunch room across from Golden
berg's store, when the proprietor was
badly beaten up by Erie Pearson. At
the finish of tho fight a stranger took
charge of affairs and put all the on
lookers out of the room. lie claimed
to be a special friend of tho proprietor.
It seems that when tho proprietor
"camo to" and took an invoice of bin
cash drawer and pockets ho was shy
some $70. Ho notified tho officers but
after a diligent search they could find
no trace of tho special self-made good
Samaritan. Ho had vamoosed with
the coin and left no announcement as
to hia destination.
Take your cream lo Whltmorc, 27c.
MRS
OWENS AGCI
DENTALLY SHOT -IS
The San .Ion community as well as
the many friends of Mr. and Mrs. C
I,. Owens in this city, received a se
vere shock when the new- was receiv
ed of the accidental slim ting of Mr-.
C. L. Owens, by her brother, Arthu
W. Skoglund, who is visiting at their
home.
Mr. Skoglund thought he had ex
tracted all the 2'J-enlihro sull from
the gun's magazine and had entered
thi' room where Mrs. Owens was sit
ting in a chair, holding a -mall child.
In some unknown manner a cartridge
was left in the barrel mid exploded
the hall passed through the fleshy part
of the little child's leg ami went on
through lodging in the bowels of Mr-.
Owens, the ball ranging downward.
Mrs. Owens was brought to Tucunienri
and taken to the Tucumcari Hospital
where it was found that there were
seven incisions which were sewed up.
The ball has not been located. Mrs.
Owens was in a very -eriou- condition
and has been -it'cc the accident hap
pened and it wa- thought by her in
timate friends who visited her hero,
that it would be impossible for her
life to be saved as it was feared blood
poison was inevitable. Wednesday . he
was reported to be doing nicely and
a vigilent watch was being given that
her recovery now seems possible.
This is one of the most estimable
families of Quay county and Mrs.
Owens was in nearly perfect health
before the accident, and it is earnestly
desired that she will fully recover.
SCHOOL OP HNS NEXT TUESDAY
The following information regard
ing the location of the various grades
ill the Tucumcari Public Schools, is
given for the benefit of parents and
pupils. To avoid confusion and delay
pupils should go tn the various grades
as indicated below.
Grade Building Teacher
First High school Miss Syler
First Fast Knd Miss Hntton
First and Second - North Side
B Second North Annex
Miss Murphy
A Second S. Annex Miss Hurke
A Third -Central Mrs. Hess
Third and Fourth -Central
Fourth--Central Miss Sterns
Fifth Fast Side Miss Bond-
Sixth -Central Miss Horn
All grade.-, above the -ixth will be
located in the High school building;
and as was previously stated, grades
seven, eight, and nine will be taught
departmentally by the regular high
school teachers.
It is not advisable for pupils to pur
chase books until enrolled and promo
tion records checked hy the teacher
in charge of the Particular grade in
which tlie pupil is assigned. This
plan will incur no loss of time, ami
mistakes are much less likely to occur.
In all grades below the .seventh.
school will begin at nine o'eh"k on
next Tuesday morning, September ". ,
In the .Junior and Senior High Sch.io!
work will begin at on Tuesday !
morning. ,
Junior High School pupils will be
classified on Saturday morning, Sep
tcmber 2. Senior High School pupils
will be classified on Monday morning
September 4.
All irregular pupils as well an pu
pils coming in late will call at the
olllce of the superintendent for class
ideation on Tuesday morning. Sep
tember ft. Pupils regularly promoted
last year will go directly to their
grades as indicated in the list printed
above.
Take your cream to W hil inure 27c.
SER OUSLY INJURED
Ql Y ( Ol'NTY STUDENTS AT L VEGAS SUMMER SCHOOL
The picture was taken at Las Vegas Mr. and Mrs. W. II. Wall, Mr. and as, Julia Wattenbarger, Herbert Wca
when the students from Quay county Mrs. Roy Smith, Danico French, Lola vor, Hertha Knowles, Notta Knowlos
went on their picnic. Thoso in at- Yessler, Howman Hewitt, JoBcphlne Loo Gentry, Mittio Wintor, Evalinn
tendance wero; Johnson, Zoolla Bnlley, Wntsio Thorn-! Walker and Fisher Bonds,
E. C.
DE BACA DEM
OGRATIG NOMINEE
Santa Fe. N. M.. Aug. :M. The big
Democratic Stale Convention ended
here tonight when the nominations for
tutu olllcers were selected as follows:
Governor: E. C. do Ilaca of Otero
county, was selected on the first bal
lot. He developed much of his trength
after coming to Santa Fe. Mr. do
Hnca is now lieutenant governor.
The surprise of the day was spuing
when Governor McDonald was put in
nomination for lieutenant governor,
and was selected without opposition.
Antonio Lucero. present secretary of
-tate. was re-nominated for the -mine
position.
Harry L. Patton of Clovis, was so
octcd as tho candidate for Attorney
General.
Hon. A. A. Jones, as expected before-hand,
was the unanimous choice
for United States Senator.
W. II. Walton of Silver City was
chosen for congress without opposi
tion. M. Montoya for Corporation Com
missioner.
George Davisson of Chaves county
was chosen for Land Commissioner.
Treasurer, tho nominee was II. L.
Hall of Rio Arriba county.
Auditor, L. Otero.
Foi the Supreme court the nominee
is Neill ft. Field of Ilernalillo countv.
State Supt. of School, J. L. G. Swiii
noy of San Juan county.
Attorney Kiker of Raton, was chos
en as district attorney for the Kighth
district, defeating Mr. Saxon of Quay
by a majority of 2D to 12. Mr. Saxon
received the solid support of Quay and
three from Taos.
Felipe Sanchez y Hnca of Tucumcari
was a strong candidate for Secretary
of State but ho did not desire to make
tltc race. It was evident for sometime
tln.i. he could have been nominated
if he would only give his consent.
There was .some talk of Albert Cal-i-eh,
of Quay county, Democratic nom
inee for state senator in that county,
.'or lieutenant governor, but Mr. Oil-i.-ch
refused to make the race because
'if the fact that he is already a can
didate from Quay to the senate.
That Governor McDonald is still a
tremendous power in his party and
has lost little if any of his popularity
.vith the rank and lib- of the New
Mexico democracy, was evidenced by
the enthusiastic ovation accorded him
i- he mounted the rostrum. The en
ire convention came to its feet and
lelegates shouted and waved their
hats in the air as an expression of
heir loyalty to the man who, for the
last five years, has stood as the olll
cial leader of the party in the state.
Governor McDonald was visibly af
fected by the demonstration in his
honor and it was -everal minutes be
I'n re the cheering subsided sufficient
l.v for him to proceed.
Governor McDonald deli vet ed what
many of his friends declared was the
'."st speech he has ever mude.
The democrat.s of New Mexico have
nominated for United States senator
the best equipped man in the state
i'ir that position. Hon. A. A. Jones
i more than a politician, more than
.in able lawyer, more than a success
i'iii business man. He is the equal in
ibility of the best statesmen of the
nation, and, if elected, soon will be
ivcognized as one of the foremost
lawmakers of the country.
A. A. Jone.s was the recipient of a
pronounced ovation as he entered the
hall and took his place with the Sail
.Miguel county delegation. The dole
gates stood up and cheered for sev
fial minutes and gave other expres-i"ti-
of enthusiastic support for the
man who is to be their nominee for
FOR GOVERNOR
United Statu senator. A similar dem
jiHtratmii v.t accorded StnU; Sena
I tor W. M. Walton when he made his
appearance, and Governor McDonald
.also was given a mot enthusiastic
I reception when he came in the hall.
I I "I'll lll'l;tl'1'lK'L l.'ll u
DRIVER ELSA DILLON
Fla Dillon, a well known ranchman
of Amarillo, Texas, who was in Tu
cumcari several months ago and pur
chased the (iene Smyer ranch south
of town, was instantly killed, another
man seriously injured, and two other
occupants of tho car were unharmed,
when Dillon's big Cadillac auto over
turned while he was enroute to Am.
arillo from his ranch.
' The cause of tho accident was not
j learned bete and as there were sev
(eral diirerent stories told in regard to
. how it happened the News will re-
frain from publishing until a more
definite account is received.
TEAM KILLED WHEN IT FALLS
OFF CLIFF NEAR LKSIIIA
Jess llrown and family left last
Thursday night for Colorado. While
coming down the Cap Rock southeast
of Lesbia. his lead team became un
manageable, iumnine- off a hlth rlifT
10 mo rocks below. They wore infiUnt
ly killed and Mr. Hrown was forced to
return to his brother's near Lehbia.
A subscription paper was circulated in
behalf of Mr. Hrown and quite a nice
,sum lealized with which to assist him
, to buy another team that he and the
family might proceed on their journey
j to Colorado where they intend to make
! their future home.
WlllTK HOPES FAIL
Three white men and a negro por
ter had a scrap Tuesday night. It
seems that one of tho men jumped the
negro for a fight and was accommo
dated by getting the worst of tho bar
gain; then his partner took part and
not until the third comrade assisted
in the fracas did the black man back
up. They were arrested and fined in
Justice McF.lroy's court Wednesday.
None of the combatants were seriously
injured, but there was evidence that
they had been somewhere.
PVYS $7121 IIOND BECAUSE
SILVER CITY HL'ILDER QUITS
Santa Fe. N. M.. Aug 25. - The state
insurance department has been noti
fied that the National Surety company
, has paid $7121.07 to the Real Estate &
Improvement company of Silver City
because contractor August Haltzcr,
1 whom it had bonded, failed to fulliill
his contract for the erection of a group
of bungalow.- at Silver Cjtv.
ALIiERT HROWN DIES
Albert llrown, aged (5-1 years, an
old resident of Tucumcari, having been
employed as gate keeper at the rail
road crossing near the electric light
plant for several years, died at his
home Sunday. August 27, after an ill
ness of only n short duration. The
funeral was held Monday and the re
mains laid tu rest, in Sunnyside cem
etery. MRS. SILAS HODGES INJURED
Mrs. Silas Hodges fell down the cel
lar steps at the Israel store Tuesday
j and while it is reported that she has
no bones broken, she was severely
J bruised and injured. Mrs. Hodges is
under the physicians care at the home
of her daughter, Mrs. Es Gholson.
TRAVELLING MAN DIES HERE
T. S. Coopor. of Tulsa. Okinhoma,
I who had been in Tucumcari several
days in tho inteiest of the Western
1 Hotel Supp'y Co.. of Tulsa, died Snt
, unlay morning from bowol trouble,
i His body was .shipped back to Tulsa
tor burial.
CREAMERY MAN HERE
I.. S. Kirliy of Portales, Is here to
day in the inteie-t of the Roosevelt
Cuiinty Cteamerv at Prn tales. He i.s
anxious to go in touch with all cream
station- in Qua count;,.
RAILROAD STRIKE
IS SCHEDULED FOR
The General Chairman of the four
Railroad Brotherhoods will pass thru
Tucumcari tonight (Thursday) Aug.
Hist, enroute to Kl Paso where a meet
ing of the joint general committees
will be held Sept. 1st.
K. G. Jacobs. J. F. O'Rourke. R. C.
O'Connors and Claude Wingrove, lo
cal representatives, will join the gen
eral chairmen at Tucumcari and go
to hi Paso to attend tho meeting, re
turning Sunday morning on No. 2,
with full instructions to conduct the
strike.
A joint meeting of all members of
Tucumcari brotherhoods will he held nt
the Masonic hall Sunday evening at
7:.'I0 p. m., and tho brotherhoods will
open headquarters at the Masonic op
era house Monday morning, Sept. Ith.
This is probably the beginning of
one of the biggest strikes ever pulled
oir in any country. There is no doubt
about the determination of tho men
to stick for what they now demand.
President Wilson has failed to mako
the railroad presidents come through
so the strike is called for Monday, Sept
i -I.attor Dav.
WHEAT MARKET UNSTEADY
A number of the farmers took ad
vantage of the high price being paid
for wheat last Friday and Saturday
and twenty loads were received on
those two days. The price paid was
S1..'M on Friday and SI. 10 on Snturday
the amount paid to the farmers was
about $1,470. Ernest Hall brought in
one load; S. A. Wells three; Jas. O.
Jordan two; .1. G. Wattenbarger two;
W. G. Winningham two; Joe M. Wells
one; R. P. Halo one; E. F. True one;
John Hardin one; T. F. Hrown two; E.
O. Akin two; J. W. Akin one, and .1.
W. Payne one.
Th.ire were 10H0 bushels of tho fin
est wheat ever brought tn any mnr
ket. Another load was brought in
hut on account of smut it could not
bo loaded into the car so it was sold
to the Collins Hay and Grain Co. for
feed. It brought a good price.
The M. H. Goldenberg Co. nlso pur
chased some wheat and paid $1.40
for it. This is proof enough that if
the farmers produce the grain they
will be nfforded n suitable market and
with competition they may well ex
pect to receive top prices.
Monday the bottom fell out of tint
market the price dropping to SI. MO a
bushtl. but. Tuesdny it had advanced
to Sl.Hti Wednesday on account of
strike conditions wheat dropped to
SI. 25 and Thursday it was going at
that price.
During the past week a number of
the farmers from other sections of
the cot t.ty have been marketing mnhe
heads in this city o local buyers r.t
S20 per' ton. This is an advance of
more than 100 per cent from tho price
paid in the early spring.
CIVIL SERVICE POSITIONS
The work of holding civil orvieo ex
aminations in this vicinity has recent
ly been quite active. On August 26,
a number of the local board of exam
iners proceeded to Endcc to hold the
examination for 1th class postmaster
at that place. On August 20th a fine
class of eleven competitor was ex
amined at the High school, for the va
cancies in the Tucumcari postoffico.
On Monday and Tuesday of this
week, an examination wna held at tho
Court House for inspector position
undor the Interstate Commerce Com
mission. Some of our people may not
have noted the grent variety of po
sitions for which examinations may
be taken at Tucumcari.
As we understand it the three can
didates receiving the highout grades
in the examination Saturday, will bo
eligible to the position of assistant
postmaster in Tucumcari. It is up to
the postmaster to choose from those
three the one he thinks best suited to
fill the place.
Sixteen were killed in one day at
tho place known as I. H. Davis near
Norton 4 miles east and V milos
north. Mrs. Ayler and daughter lo
cated a don of rattlesnakes, one wns
about MO inches long and tho rest wore
about fifteen inches long. Thoy report
ed their wholesale slaughter 'and feel
like they deserve a Carnegie medal for
bravery.
FEDERAL FARM LOAN ACT
On another page in this weeks News
appears a synopsis of the snlleot rn.
, tures of the Fedornl Farm Loan Act,
i propnred by H. M. Hanson, secrotary-
ireasuror Muni Mortgage Bankers'
Association of America. This net was
pnssed by tho House of Roprosontn
tivos and tho United States Senate
Juno 27 nnd 28, 1010, nnd signed hy
President Wilson July 17, 1010. Don't
fall to road what It means to tho farm
ers of tho United States,
MONDAY MORNING
