NEXT WEEK IS BUSY WEEK-BIG 'MONDAY-CATHOLIC FAIR-DISTRICT COURT.
THE CLAYTON CITI
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1916
NO. 34
MAIL TRAINS HIT BY STRIKE
ORDER; NONE TO OPERATE
Service to be at Standstill After 7 A.
M. Monday, According to Letter
Sent District Chairmen of
Four Brotherhoods With
Instructions
Washington. Aug. 28. Official an
nouncement that the greatest railroad
strike in history is ordered for next
Monday at 7 a. m., is contained in the
orders given to each of the 640 dis
trict chairmen of the four trainmen
brotherhoods, to be signed and dis
tributed to the local chairmen of each
district. Most of the signed orders
are still sealed, for each chairman was
instructed by his chief that the letter
was not to be opened before Sept. 1,
except on telegraphic instruction.
The order is addressed to all chair
men, members and others employed
in classes of services represented by
the Brotherhood of Locomotive En
gineers, Brotherhood of Locomotive
Firmen and Enginemen, Order f
Railway Conductors, and Brotherhood
of Railway Trainmen."
Includes Nonunion Men
Thus it includes the great number
of nonunion men who, without any
penalties, are enjoying the privilege
of having the brotherhoods fight for
them. The order follows:
"Sirs and Brothers: This is to aci
vise that a vote of the employes in
train and engine service on the-eight-hour
day and one and one-half time
for overtime proposition was over
whelmingly in favor of a strike.
Notwithstanding this, your represen
tatives have been unable to effect a
where halls are provided, during the
day at all times, unless excused by
committee action, or by chairman of
the meeting
Rioting Is Discountenanced
The secretary will also keep a rec
ord of the proceedings from day to
day.
6. In the conduct of every strike
there are numerous irresponsible per
sons, not members or the organiza
tions, who take occasion to engage in
acts of violence and disorderly con
duct, and such actions are usually at
tributed to members of the organiza
tion and great care Bhould be taken
by every member of tiie organizations
to avoid associating with such per
sons, and such conduct shoum be dis
couraged so as not to cast reproach
upon the cause.
7. Some railroad officials may en
deavor to coerce or mislead the men
by asserting that men at other points
have not quit or that they have re
turned to work. Such iniormation
should be discounted. All strikers
should apply to their . officers and
committeemen for information and be
governed accordingly, and no member
or nonunion man will return to work
until the strike is officially declared
off, when all will return to work at
the same time without prejudice and
with all former rights.
CHRISTIAN CHURCH
The members of the Christian
church assembled last Sunday and or
ganized their Sunday school and el
ected teachers and officers. Sunday
school every Lords day at 10 o'clock,
Every member of the church is most-
satisfactory settlement, and a strike I earnestly requested to come and help
under the laws of the respective or- wth the work. Treadling services as
ganizations has become effective on
Sept. 4, 1916, at 7 a. m. Impart this
information so that those interested
will understand that they are to
promptly obey."
Regulations for Strikers
The "Sent. 4" was inserted with
rubber stamp.
soon as a minister can be secured.
CLAYTON SCHOOL TO OPEN
There will be a brief preliminary
session of the Clayton Public school,
both common and high, on Monday
With each order were morning, September 4th, at 9 o'clock,
the following regulations for all strik
ers: V
1. No man in road service involved
in the strike will perform any ser
vice after the hour set to strike, un
less he has already begun his trip and
has actuallv left the terminal. If the
train has left the terminal he will
complete the trip and deliver the en-
for the purpose of classification, reg
istration and text book assignment.
The First Primary will be placed in
the Christian Church. All other
grades will assemble in their respec
tive rooms in the school buildingVEv-
ery pupil should be present at this
session. Below will be found a ten
tative assignment of the faculty:
Common School
irlno anA train at. ttip end of run. OT
tic-up point, if tied up under the law, Nan J. Morgan, First Primary
k will prfnrm no forth- Etta Mae Leavell, ..Second Primary
er service until the close of the strike.
Men in other than road service will
leave the service at the appointed
time.
So far as your legal strike is con
cerned, there is no difference between
a mail train and a freight train. You
have identically the same right to re
fuse to Derform service on a mail
train, as you have to refuse to per
form service on a freight train.
2. All men on strike will keep
away from the company's property,
except such men as are designated
certain duties to be performed by au
thority of the organization.
3. Every man should understand
that the laws of the land must be
obeyed. Acts of violence of any na
ture will not be tolerated by the or
ganizations. To Organize Locally
4. The local representatives will
arrange for a hall for meeting pur
poses at all terminals, usini one ot
their own lodge rooms if available.
Immediacy after the strike ;. cumies
onVctive, all men will assemble it The
halls secured or meeting purposes.
When thus assembled, an organiza
tion will be prfected by the election
of a chairman, vice chairman and sec
retary. N person will be permitted U he
present in the meeting hall other tha;'
those who are on strike, except by
.. permission of the assembly.
5. The secretary will arrange a
roll call (alphabetically), with each
organization on a separate sheet. Roll
will be called twice daily, morning and
afternoon. The names of the non
members will be kept separate on the
roll from the names of those who are
members of the organizations. All
strikers will be required to answer
the roll call and also to be in the halls
Jennie Lee Cox, Second Grade
Irene Worsham, Third Grade
Vida V. McArthur, Fourth and Fifth
Ada 0. Parker, ..Sixth and Seventh
High School
(Including 8th Grade)
Opal Slater Principal
Sara Hutchings, Ass't Principal
J. E. Chamberlain, ...Superintendent
H. L. Anderson, Ass't Supt
Marie Chamberlain, Supervisor of
Music.
Jack Williams, Janitor.
Signed:
J. E. CHAMBERLAIN
THE NOMINEES
For President
CHARLES E. HUGHES
For Vice-President
CHARLES FAIRBANKS
For District Attorney
ORIE L. PHILLIPS
For U. S. Senator
FRANK A. HUBBELL
For Governor
HOLM O. BURSUM
For Congressman
B. C. HERNÁNDEZ
For Justice Supreme Court
CLARENCE J. ROBERTS
For Lietenant Governor
W. E. LINDSEY
For Secretary of State
GILBERTO MIRABAL
For State Auditor
W. G. SARGENT
For State Treasurer
GREGORY PAGE
For Superintendent of Schools'
J. H. WAGNER
For Attorney General
FRANK W. CLANCY
For Land Commissioner
R. P. ERVIEN
For Corporation Commissioner-
MALAQUIAS MARTINEZ
For Presidential Electors
C. L. HILL, Las Cruces.
II. J. HAMMOND, Clayton.
JUAN ORTIZ, Santa Fe.
ADDRESS OF ACCEPTANCE BY $78,000 property of Agricultural col-
bursum is challenge to
governor Mcdonald
Republican Candidate for Chief Exec
utive Sounds Keynote of His
Party for State Campaign;
Attacks Record of Men
Who Beat Him 1911
lege, which as yet has not been re
covered and we await with patience
and I hope a pardonable degree of in
terest for some defense of these meth
ods pursued by the democratic ad
ministration of this state. The time
for political banks has long passed
and even though such banks may be
substantial contributors to the cam
paign funds of a political party, no
confidence of its people who will pay
political debts with the people's
Under the republican administra-
Gen tlemen of the convention:
I am not unmindful of the high
compliment you have paid me and the "'J'
pvnroadinn nf pnnfiHpnpp whiph vp.ll UnCli
repose by selecting me as your can- tion for the Past twentv years the ad
didate for governor. I accept this """'ration of the cattle and sheep
trust, and shall expend every energy sa" .ary s were -aosoiuw y non
. f v.;i;f.. t...o.j partisan, mey were regarded as
" I ,J .... 1 . ...ill. Í 1.. . J.1 A -i-t
hnnpr tn viptnrv With nnitpnl Prosperity of the state, and officials
nrtv p.rrp.,.nvp n,l pnntnt. Hpvo. P" thoSG boards Were Selected Only
, j, . t i il i-L
tinn in hohnlf f nr pp.wp ,p ho wu" --i érente lo ineir illness, capa.
t . . a i i t. t city and knowledge of the industries
pvprv rpnann t.fi tppI pnntwlpnr rnat. nn "
tnp 7th Av of Nnvprnhpr npvt nt. affeeted- For Vears' Under "publi-
the close of the polls the republican
ticket from top to bottom, as nomin
ated in- this convention, will be trium
phant.
This is a republican year. The vot
ers of the United States look to the
republican party for a constructive
policy, for such action as will pro-
can administration William C. Mc
Donald was at the head of the cattle
sanitary board of this state. He was
placed there because he was consider
ed to be a practical man, well versed
in the business of cattle raising. The
leading sheep raisers of the state were
selected as members of the sheep sani
tary board, to administer the affairs
rnnfo f Va r fr nc a a an A vra nnwittr nf
fKflnonnio Tilia a Vinf rmtiifai a f f J latín to the . sheep industry, and
, . m j I- j the Honorable Solomon Luna, who
noorlv Trtur vaara at Horn rwu i in I '
l j j. l u was the leading sheep raiser of New
ministration the democrats have been . ....
ANNOUNCEMENTS
T. J. CRUMLEY
- T. J. Crumley Announces his
candidacy for the republican
nomination for sheriff of Un
ion county, and earnestly soli
cits your support in the repub
lican convention.
JOHN L. HILL
We are . authorized to an
nounce John L. Hill as a candi
date for the nomination of the
Republican party County Convention.
round wanting in statesmanship, in
stability and in vision and American
citizens throughout this land feel hu
iliated at the results caused by the
vacillating, unstable, changeable,
peace-at-any-price policy of Woodrow
Wilson. Never in the historv of the f?r the P.sory authonty
-IJ 1. it. i 11.1.1 . I uie oiiutu uiuuati v ui tino abate a
in foreign lands for the rights of Am
erican citizens. The present chief
executive of the nation has been on all
sides of all questions, and while the
people might be informed as to his
policy of today, they would be per
fectly safe to assume that his policy
of tomorrow would be the reverse. Iti(m of H'onorable Solomon Lmm
vuuiituiun ana uncertainly in me pou-
CARD OF THANKS
We take this method of thanking
the many friends who so kindly as
sisted and sympathized with us in the
bereavement and loss of our father,
D. Y. Sowers and family
A. D. Sowers and family
L. M. Sowers and wife.
CATHOLIC FAIR SEPT. 7th 8th 9th
JURORS DRAWN BY JUDGE LEIB
v The following jurors have been
drawn for the coming term of court,
which will open Monday of next week:
'Grand Jury
John Spring, T. S. Spencer, George
A. Fowler, Jr., A. H. Dean, Francisco
Gallegos, Bruce xSayre, Marcellino
Trujillo, A. W. Tanner, Jose V. Mar
tinez, J. W. Roger, J. J. Herringa,
Jacoba Tafoya, A. E. Mills, W. E.
Uardin, J. Barton, Romulo del Valle,
J. C. Turner, Moore Nix, J. W. Haley,
Wilburrt Olive, Sam Davis, Candelario
Flore, Levi Howell, Oscar Winches
ter, George Goodyear, Earl Stauffer,
Maximo Archuleta.
s Petit Jury
W, D. Crow, Candalario Archuleta,
Elíseo B. Padilla, C. C. Jones, W. W.
Bailey, Francisco Miera, John Beck
er, Candido Fisher, Thomas Lewellyn,
C. A. Macey, Dudley Walker, Frank
Anderson, John Thomas, Alejandro
Rivera, E. E. Brosier, Loom is Moon,
Jim Goss, Jose L. C. de Baca, S. W.
Haldoman, S. A. Green, C. W. B. Bry
an, W. B. Smith, Guadalupe Lobato,
George Gaylord, Jacob Pacheco, John
Guyer, W. T. Revelcy, W. T. Harris,
Alfred Kress, C. W. Griffin, Miguel
Tixier, H. W. Dodson. J
The dates for the Catholic Fair have
been set for Thursday, Friday and
Saturday of next week. Everyone i
town should attend this fair and as
sist the Franciscan Sisters to start
their new school building which will
cost in the neighborhood of ten thou
sand dollars and be one of the best
advertising features from a business
standpoint the town could have.
There will be booths of all kinds, re
freshments, dancing, and a program
each evening of special numbers of
all kinds. The programs will be un
usually good', Both the Palmer . and
K. of P. Halls have been engaged for
the occasion and will be decorated and
arranged in the most artistic manner,
Now is the' time for you to invest
Christmas presents instead of expend
ing all-your energy in trying to make
them yourself. The dancing will be
conducted on a five-cent basis that is
each dance will cost five cents. Tick
Mexico, on account of his peculiar fit
ness and knowledge of that industry,
was the chairman of the sheep sani
tary board. Under the democratic ad
ministration Governor McDonald haa
seen fit to retain for all practical pur-
cics of. government are calculated to
create distrust, and distrust means
industrial depression. No nation can
prosper without absolute confidence in
the stability of the administration of
the government. Here in this slate
we have had nearly five years of dem
ocratic rule. The people are tired and
restless of the do-nothing policy of
Governor McDonald. During these
five years not one sentence of con
structive legislation has been pro
posed by your chief executive. Under
the construction of this state the leg
islature and the executive are consti-
man wholly untrained in the sheep in
dustry. There can be no defense of
this action except the payment ui a"."
political debt at the expensé of the
sheep raisers of New Mexico, and one
of the first acts that Governor Mc
Donald did, after assuming the office
of governor, was to request the resig
as
the head of that sheep sanitary board.
As to the cattle sanitary board we
have no criticism to make. We may
assume, however, that Governor Mc
Donald is a practical cattle raiser and
that in maintaining the high stand
ard of efficiency with reference to
the cattle sanitary board, he did not
forget his own personal welfare.
We are advised that Governor Mc
Donald is a great friend of Mr. Mc
Donald. That in the selection of pub
lic lands which come to his office for
his signature and approval that Mr.
McDonald always commands immedi-
ntp flnH nmmnt nptinn whilo nthorv
tuted as the law making body, of the who are not so fortunate are compelled
.u u E1"" lnLür üe,"K lnal to suffer indefinite delays in obtaining
H' "TU " i-o-operauon ana con- actio wjth reference to guch 8elec.
sulfation between the executive and tion8i even though approved by the
u.c .eK.s.lUre. lev uunng mese nve gtate land commissioner.
years not one ounce or the spirit of
co-operation has been exhibited by the
chief executive of this state. The pol
icy of Governor McDonald has been
to shirk and shrink every responsibil
ity. He has been content to draw his
"Let the People Rule"
Five years ago Governor McDonald
shouted from the housetops the doc
trine "let the people rule." But since
hia inrlliptinn intn nffii'o ha pvilnntlv
salary and sit back on his dignity find- torgot that 8,0(;an and became con.
mg fault with that which others have verted to the doctrine of a Kovern.
done and to exercise his prerogative ment by few. DurinK his administra-
of the veto,
My friends, no progress can be
made, no new development can be ex
pected, either in government or in
dustry, except by and through a con
structive policy: It is only through
this sort of a policy that mistakes are
ascertained. Mistakes we have made
in the past and mistakes we will make
in the future, and these mistakes can
only be rectified through experience.
The democratic administration has
tion it has been Burkhart, Barth and
McCanna who have been the angels
permitted to sit beside the throne.
Isaac Barth has furnished the states
manship, Summers Burkhart political
advice and Peter McCanna has fur
nished the officers. A good share of
his traveling auditor's force and su
perintendent of the penitentiary were
drawn from the office of Peter Mc
Canna. Peter McCanna is an enter
prising gentleman. He runs an up-
been scandalously negligent in the to-date real estate establishment
supervision of our state banking in-
ets will be sold and you can dance stitutions and in some causes they
much or little as you choose. Nothing
will be left undone for your pleasure.
The booths will be open every after
noon as well as evening.
Fred Vandevort, the "old-trusty" at
the Isaacs Hardware company, bought
a new Ford the first of last week,
loaded himself and family into it and
departed for Statford to visit Mrs.
Vandevort't parents. They returned
yesterday and say they had a good
time. i
New Crop Fall Rye.
Seed Co.
Four States
have not only failed to see that the
law was observed but have actually
aided in an attempt to bolster up un
worthy institutions at the expense of
the depositors. In Las Cruces the cit
izens of Dona Ana county were told
by democratic officials that the First
State bank was solvent. They were
told this in the face of the fact that
the governor's Wreling auditor's
lorce well knew that the bank was
Albuquerque. He should amend his
sign and say "Real Estate and Dem
ocratic Officers Furnished for the.
Slate Administration."
Now, my friends, if I am elected, I
intend to devote the best that is in
me towards promoting for the state
of New Mexico a constructive policy,
a policy which will promote the wel
fare, the development, the growth and
the prosperity of the state. This is
a state of wonderful natural re-
. . . . . u . i. . 1 : I . t . ..a
hopelessly insolvent and the treasurer am, encouraK(ment that a 8tate gov.
of the Agricultural college was pour-! ernment can properly lend. In tha
ing in state money with one hand and
drawing overdrafts with the other. ' '
34-c Up to the present time there is still
(Continued on page 4)
