Socilf
..i.-ni
t
H H
V )L. :W. NO. 2.1
HK1TXER, OREGON, Al GUST, 31, 1910.
SKBSCRIITIOX, $1.50 PER YEAH
Gaz
MES
nnin HTriSHimn t tinnn miniirn mrn nmn nniiTnAiipnnn : t.
n m r marc i w &. .11 1 a h hhs m m n n m uv rji- r.:TTT rii rnnurn
iiunu uuitmniu MuunB.iw Wvn u ! uun iiuuiilu in li 1 iiiunii iinii i iiiiii iiiii vummuid u r,wav n- nrrr
DAY BEING URGED
Hepjmer Commercial Club Will Cm.
1 rate With Count)- Court and
Fanners to Improve Highways
For Wlieat Hauling.
The main topic taken up for dis
cussion at the regular meeting of the
Heppner Commercial Club last Mon
day evening was that of strewing the
roails of the county and putting them
iu condition for wheat hauling.
President Phelps instructed the
Roads Committee, consisting of Dr.
N. E". Winnard, Win Haylor and Al
bert Bowker, V meet with the mem
bers of the county court and the far
mers In various sections of the coun
ty. The club favors a special road
strewing day, when a special concen
trated effort should be put forth to
straw all the main highways.
The committee met with the court
on Tu:-dy and that body was favor
ably Impressed with the idea. How
ever they were of the opinion that
the farmers are too busy with harvest
Just now to put any work on the
noi1u TU ...Ill .. ,1..
,v,--0. 1UC u,l .... iB up u.e
otrauncr tt rn rw-tu 1 r i in nm 1 1.
" - "'"
various road supervisors and the
work will be done at the expense of
the county.
The roads are cutting up more this
year than they have in the past.
This condition is attributed in a
large part to the heavy increase of ln order to gain the advantages of an
automobile tourist travel. The pro-jearly enrollment. The pr0Spects for
iipr annllcatlnn nf straw wnnlrf olimi 1
JL ,1. 1?",, , , T ! f gd 8dl001 ye" are encouraglg-
nate the chuck holes and put theiAn excellent corns of" teachers has
roads ln shape for wheat hauling,
wuicn uas aireaay sianea m some
parts of the county.
..... .
A letter from the Portland Cham-
. , v
ber of Commerce was read by Secre-
tary Smead regarding the subscrlp-
tion of stock in the new farm loan
bank. The secretary was Instructed
to write for more information. Port-
land Is making a strong bid to fget curing rooms and board for all out-of- Promlnently trom the first as a ever in getting the tonrist trade that
the land bank situated in that city. town students. The teachers will a9 ; Hughes state and this stand has been i way. Furthermore, we believe that
So far as the farming territory of far as possible look after the conduct greatly augmented since the progress- there is no particular opposition to
the Northwest Is concerned, Portland 0f an non-resident students but ob- ,ve party ln tllls state are tllrowlnS such a road being built by the peo
is considered an ideal location for one 8ervation teaches that there are times tllelr suPPrt to Mr- Hughes. pie of the north end of the county,
of these institutions. n .u I Throughout Morrow county the and we look for some good results to
The club recently sent a telegram
to President Wilson asking him to love and colmsel of motller or fBther,and every precinct will have an op
settle the present railroad contro- or botn to guldei therefore parents I portllnlty to get lnto aetlve worklnS
u, hiuluuiu, mis is uie same
action as taken by many of the com-
mercial bodies all over the country
and reflects the desire of the public
at large- . :
congressman in. j. sinnott wno lias
n.o.lo ct-onMr,,,,, n,l., .
- w ....,.. si
the Monument ma 1 route re-establish-
,' . , " , , 01 appretiauon 10 lie
m i .i i u , . r
which the club recently sent bim n
behalf of the work he had done in
fills matter. Advertisements for bids
... T 1 . I ? I ! T
will be Dosted in the near future in
-I T . i, j t, ,
Kuju;e i naruiuun, l arners
Mill and Monument.
Steps were also taken by the Club
to urge the City Council to put the
streets and crossings In the best pos-
sible condition before the county fair,
which takes place September 14, 15,
and 16.
VXMN PACIFIC 1SSIK8 FINE
BOOKLETS.
We received this week' two booklets
from the Union Pacific System which an' rKegarJd ,f developing personality
from the standpoints of typography af oadenlng the mind thus con
and truthfullness of statement eclipse ! rlb" lng to on,e f,hapP, neSS by enabl
an.vtl.lng of the nature we have ever ,ng hlm moIe fullV "ye' ,
seen. "The Great Pacific Northwest . e in thf school
and Alaska" is an embossed-cover ast year waf8 40 pe'c,ent neater than
booklet of 48 pages and has an abun- tbe year beforf', Thls W t0
dance of excellently reproduced pho- 8ho,w an e,,ua' ,ncrAea3e' J? as
tographs of the scenic wonders of this eaIly M PT ' A" e"gible StUd'
licoi iCKiuii aiiu iiicac, wibii iiiu as
sistance of the accompanying word
pictures should surely create a strong
deire among Easterners to visit the
great Northwest. "Sights and Scenes
along the Union Pacific System" is
issued "for the purpose of aiding
travelers in selecting the most satis
factory route getween the East and
West, and to provide a handbook for
use enroute by passengers over the
lines of the Union Pacific System."
This booklet takes up each route from
the East to the West and tells of its
scenic advantages. These two publi
cations will probably do much toward
directing tourist travel toward the
Northwest.
Notice to Farmers.
Creek farmers are asked to fix their
dams during low. water. Equip
them with fish ladders In the best
possible manner In order that fish
will encounter no difficulty ln gett
ing over the dams.
ROBERT H. YOUNG '
Deputy State Game Warden.
Strawberries Grow all
Summer in Morrow Co.
What is the matter with Mor
row County? Nothing at all bro
ther. Look at those large lus
cious Ever-Bearing strawberries
on display in the Haylor jewelory
store window. Tlie berries grew
in the gardim of W. O. Minor on
Court street. Mr. Minor says
there has not been a day this.snm
mer that he has not had straw
berries. He is going to fix up a
nice strawberry exhibit at the Mor
row County Fair.
At the present time the Minor
Tamily is enjoying fresh raspberries
Rainier variety. A number of
Mowrow County people are devot
ing space in their gardens to the
strawberry of the Ever-Bearing
variety. Harvie Young, Eight
Mile farmer, set out a number of
these plants last spring and he
reports they are doing well.
OPENING OF SCHOOL
The Heppner schools will open Sep.
"'-.tember 18. This is one week later
than usual, the postponment being
made on account of the late harvest
and the time of holding the countv
falr Parent8 m hereby requested
to send ,hejr cWldren 0 the aboye
date or aa soon thereaftfir aa noBsihle
been securedi much new equipment
purclla8ed andi no doubti the coml ngl"1" me has grown until at the pres-
, , ', . . x, , ent time it has reached its growth
ot"uul ,eBI w,u UB oeiier man ine n naHnnn1 iio
, , , , , iot natlonal 81ze-
'ast. Foreign pupils are welcome. No I Chas. E. Hughes was brought forth
)tuftion wju be charged lndividually( ;into the political field entirely free
,the ggme )g by fromfrom any of his own wishes or de-
whlch you enroll unles8 your home 'res. It was the call of the nation
ril!itH,.f mniniM,m atn,!rH
KPi,nni Atfonttnn -hi k ,ri,
in ever young person's life when he
nr ., nppds the intelHeent . vmnthv !
are advised either to move to Heppner i
to provlde honie lllfluence8 for thelr ,
r,ildrpn while nttpmllnir sclinnl nr tn 1
keep in close tou(,h wlth their 80C,al
life while here thru teachers and
f rienls.
' .
To the young men and women!
thinking of attending high school this ,
yeari we wIsh to caU Hpeciai attention
10 tie Peor advantages offered by
the Heppner High School. With its
nmDrmi mrco0 nf i,i,.iin
numerous courses of instruction, fine
llbrarVi extenalve labratories and
modern improvements it is easily the
, ,
eaunig iiibii Huiioui in uws section oi
the Rtate It certainly will be to your
advantage to avail yourselves of these
thlnes. Tt costs no morn tn nttenn
hpn, thnn P1aPWhore. Tn vet much nut
'of fe that ls really worth whlle or to
;hpoomfi in anv deerefi n adfi(111otn
participator in the social life of the
state one needs at least a thorough
high school education. Don't be mis
lead by the prejudiced or uninformed,
education pays not only in dollars and
cents but also in the far more Import-
Sincerely yours,
H. H. HOFFMAN,
Superintendent.
A New Restaurant at Lexington.
A new and up-to-date eating house,
which will serve meals at all hours
has just been opened up at Lexing
ton, in the Dougherty building by
R. H. Lane. Mr. Lane states that
none but white cooks will be em
ployed, and the service will be first
class. This will prove of Interest to
all those who will be coming and go
ing at Lexington, and Mr. Lane can
look for success in the new venture.
LOST Pair of green spectacle
goggles between Lexington and the
C. R. Pointer place north of that
town. Finder please leave at this
office.
FARMERS I pay the highest
market price for grains of all kinds.
Consult with me before selling.
W. W. SMEAD.
II ... 1 1 L
NIZATIQN
A. A. Courtney, State Organizer Gets
Heppner Republicans Working.
Many Charter Members Will
Help Klect C. E. Hughes.
Heppner republicans have organiz
ed and have applied for membership
in the National Hughes Alliance. The
j temporary officers had not yet been
i elected up to the time of going to
press, but A. A. Courteney, state or
jganizer, expects to have everything
completed and in perfect working
'condition before leaving this city for
Pendleton, where another branch of
the Hughes Alliance will be formed.
Those who have already applied
i for membership in the Alliance and
jVho will work for the election of
iChas. Evans Hughes to the presidency
!of the United States are: T. J. Ma
' honey, county committeeman, W. P.
l!Cox, Frank Gilliam, C. E. Woodson,
Arthur R. Crawford, S. E. Notson,
Hugh E. Bran, Leonard L. Gilliam,
Clinton C. Gillian, T. J. Humphreys,
Winifred F. Case, M. L. Case, H. A.
Duncan, George Thomson, Chas.
Thomson, R. N. Crawford, Oscar
Borg, Lulu Campbell, D. C. Gurdane,
Wm. Ball, W. R. Irwin, Ray M. Rog
ers, R, C. Hale, J. E. Hale, Vivian
Cox, Daisy Hendrlcson, Lulu M. Ha-
ger, Sybil Hager, Wm. Haylor, D. R. j
Haylor, A. W. Logston, W. 0. Hill,
Alex Green, A. M. Phelps, N. E. Win-
nard, A. P. Culberston, W. W. Smead,
Hugh C. Currin, L. W. Briggs, Gay
M. Anderson, J. A. Waters, M. A.
Loehr and J. L. Wilkins.
The National Hughes Alliance, as
ithe name 'mPUe8- ls a nation-wide
I "men !W'! " v"?"1.
1 1908 In the state of New York when
Chas. E. Hughes ran for governor of
that state. The movement was start-
d 1V friends of Mr. Hughes and since
, for a leader and he was picked as the
,'loflcal leader. Oregon stood out
National Hughes Alliance will go,
ucl lc"
Portland Firm Extends Invitation To
Heppner People.
Portlands great auto show
will
.nn ho i ,oii
" "
known firm of Meier & Frank hasvclUBCU'
issued an Invitation to the people of F. W. Beek and wife, of Mont-
Heppner to be present for the event,
One of the features of the show will
be a great display of over 5000 varie-
. ji.i. -I-j.--,.. u. ,
ties of dahlias and gladiolas. The In
Ivltation was sent through . B. Hud-
dleston, local railroad agent and at
. .. . . . ..
tentlon is called to the fact that a
fare of one and a third for the round
trip can be secured.
"A CALL TO ARMS."
To the Citizens of Eastern Oregon:
Our government has made the "Call
to Arms" of 100,000 men. Oregon's
proportion of this call ls approxi
mately 2000. Shall this State be
found wanting? Is it possible there
are not 2000 young men ln this State
with enough patriotism, and love of
country to immediately fill this quo
ta? Do the Stars and Stripes not mean
as much to the young men of this
State as they do to the young men of
other States?
Our sister State on the north has
furnished her entire quota under
"The Call." State pride alone should
be an Incentive to fill our ranks, not
only this, but local pride should be
considered.
How many men has your city and
community furnished?
I regret to say that Eastern Oregon
is far short of all other sections In
this state ln responding to this
"Call."
Many men say, "If there was really
need of me, I would gladly go as
soon as there ls something doing
down on the "border" I will eulist."
It is not for us to say when we will
enlist. Our country has called, and
It ls up to the citizens of this State
to respond, for, when there is "some
thing doing" will be too late.
In the name of our great United
States, the Stars and Stripes which
we all love In the name of the State
of Oregon, of which we are all proud,
and lastly In the name of your local
city and community, you are called
upon to enlist In your country's ser
vice. For Information apply to Major
Hiram U. Welch, Recruiting Officer,
The Dalles, Oregon.
VViLLBRING RESULTS
lone Correspondent Can See Growing
Sentiment Favoring Improvement,
of lone Heppner Road.
E. E. Brodie, president, and Phil
S. Bates, secretary, of the Oregon Ed
itorial Association, were visitors In
lone for a short time on Friday last
on their return trip from visiting the
different towns of Eastern Oregon in
the Interests of the Associaion. These
gentlemen, traveling by auto, were
not loud in their praise of much of
the roads they had to pass over, and
they were especially sore at being di
rected over the "Blue Trail" from
Heppner to Pendleton via Pilot Rock,
stating that the road, where they
could find any, was fierce and ab
solute death to tires. They returned
from Pendleton by way of Echo, and
while they found some of the road
cut up pretty badly, there was no
rock and they were getting through
with much less wear and tear to ma
chinery and in far better frame of
mind than when they reached Pen.
dleton. Many other travelers have
made the same statement concerning
the upper route. This being the case,
tourists have been directed over the
I Echo route from lone as a matter of
! course, the people here feeliDg that it
was only fair to give the tourist the
benefit of the least of two evils, any
of the roads being bad enough at this
time of the year. It should be un
derstood that there is no bad feeling
on the part of the people here against
the travel going through Heppner,
and we are quite sure that the has
iness men of Heppner, generally, nn-
erstand it this way. . Getting from
lone to Heppner these days Is not a
pleasure trip by any means, vet we
long for the day when enough money
will be spent on this piece of road
that five reaching of the county seat
will be a joy over roads that are good
the year around, and when this hap-
pens there will be no difficulty what-
come out of the present controversy.
But in the meantime Heppner should
not tell tourists that there is a good
road from that town to Pendleton via
Pilot Rock. The publishing of such
statement ls bound to react injurious
ly upon the tourist trade unless
something is done mighty soon to
bring the roads np to the standard ad-
.
'pelier, Ohio, are visiting this week at
the home of Ernest Heliker. Mrs.
Beek is an aunt of Mr. Heliker, and
.... t, a , .v t
uie oeeKH are luunug lue wesi in
quest of health and pleasure and
may decide on locating at some
point on the coast. Mr. Beek follows
railroading in his home state and is
somewhat interested in the outcome
of the pending strike.
L. J. Padberg and wife, Mrs. E. L.
Padberg and A. T. Wood made np an
auto party that left lone yesterday
over the Columbia Highway for Port
land. They will spend a short time
visiting Willamette Valley points and
may go on to the coast for an outing.
Kenneth Davidson returned to his
home at Portland Monday after a
visit of several days at the home of
L. P. -Davidson in lone. The young
man is clever with the pencil and
some day should make a cartoonist of
note. He has fine talent along this
line.
E. L. Padberg, J. A. Kefhn and Dr.
C. C. Chick are possessers of new
autos which they purchased this
week. Klehn and Chick have Sax
ons and Padberg treated himself to
a "little Six" Buick. More announce
ments later.
Born To Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
French, of Rhea creek, at the home
of Ralph Beckett, in lone, August
26th, a daughter. Dr. Chick reports
mother and babe doing well.
Jake Young was down from Hepp
ner Tuesday. He wants to make ar
rangements to get some of his big
wheat crop moved down to the rail
road. Miss Carrie Whitmore, who visited
at the Mason home on Rhea creek the
past week, returned to her home In
Portland on Monday.
Rev. C. P. Bailey was up from The
Dalles and filled bis appointments at
the Baptist church here on Sunday.
He returned home on Monday.
Mrs. Addle Wood, of Arlington, is
visiting at the home of her sister,
Mrs. Mary Hale, In lone. She ar
rived on Saturday last.
Columbia Highway Sub
ject to Mach Travel
W. G. Scott of Lexington is
some statistican. Mr. Scott came
up over the Columbia Highway re
cently on his return home after
several weeks spent at Crater
Lake. Just out of curiosity more
than anything else, Mr. Scott
counted all tho .nitnmnhiioo ro,i,
ed on the left side of the highway.
xneen me nuing station in Port
land and Hood River he counted
1126 ears. He estimates that this
was about half of the total number
of cars on the mad hat
two points that day.
One noticeable feature of the
many cars one sees on this great
highway is the large number of
Oregon and Washington cars. This
tends to prove that more of the
natives are seeing their own states.
Mr. Scott says the Columbia
Highway is a revelation in the
science of road building. "It's
wonderful, wonderful," is the way
in which he expressed his appre
ciation of America's ETPfttpst iiron.
iic highway.
IN STRIKE SITUATION
Governor Withycombe sent the fol
lowing telegram to President Wilson
ou the railroad strike situation, in
which he takes an entirely new posi
tion that the service of the railroads
belongs to the people.
"While the railroads are the pro
perty of the stockholders, transpora
tatlon servige is the property of the
public. Land grants and franchises
were given with that understanding.
The American people are committed
to and believe in the principle arbi
tration and the public welfare de
mands that this principle be preser
ved. Where differences between the
railroad employes -an4 Ahe managers
involve so serious an issue as trans
portation service to the public, and
cannot be mutually adjusted, the
public will, and does insist on both
sides submitting to arbitration."
This Is a phase of the question
not generally considered. The pub
lic, in the event of a strike, would be
the sufferer. The sawmills and the
mines, the farm products and the
fruit industry, the milk trains and
dairy supplies for the millions in the
would be cut off, and millions would
suffer and children would die by the
thousands if the strike should be pro
longed. If the public could have any in
fluence, more than what the weight of
its opinion will be upon those involv
ed, the strike question would be set
tled by arbitration and In a mannei
that would be at least millions of dol
lars cheaper to the masses.
Have You Made Any Plans For Dec
orating.
The Fourth Annual Morrow Coun
ty Fair is drawing near at hand. A
few weelis ago something was said
about dressing up the old town in
real style for this event. It is urged
that every business house make use
of this privilege and decorate. Ev
rything points to the biggest crowd
in the history of the fair and we want
to make a good impression. Unique
and attractive window displays In
conjunction with the decorative
scheme will add much to the appear
ance of our business streets. Orange
and black are the official colors for
Fair Week.
POR SALE Four hundred acres
nmlrin and timber land, known as
the fiouth Jones Prairie. Mrs. Henry
Jones, 321 14th St., Portland, Ore.
lm.
Grain In Eight Mile makes ItigYields.
Reports coming In from the Eight
Mile section where grain has been
threshed indicates that the yield will
be a big one. Among those who have
threshed or are now threshing are
Guf Huston and C. E. Jones. Mr.
Husiton reaped a harvest of better
than 1700 sacks of wheat from ."
acres. Mr. Jones had 15 acres of
wheat thut produced nearly 42 bush
els to the acre and his oats made 80
per acre.
No excitement in the lone wheat
market this week. Buyers and sell
ers can't get together.
The Bank of lone was officially ex
amined on Wednesday by Mr. Stuart
of the State banking department.
Mrs. D. M. Ward visited with her
relatives In and near lone for a few
days during the week, from her home
at Heppner.
Tfl llllir
IB-
$1500 HMtlll
W. O. Minor, Pioneer Stockman, Will
lie;; in Building of Swimming Pool
In Xear Future Has Gone To
Portland To Complete
Arrangements.
A natatorium costing approximate
ly $1500 will be built by W. O. Minor.
Mr. Minor went to Portland Tuesday
afternoon to complete the detail ar
rangements and to get the necessary
material for the building. The nata
torium will be situated on Mr. Minor's
Chase street lot.
The swimming pool will be 24 by
60 fet in size. This is larger than the
pools found at the average health re
sorts. Mr. Minor has spent consi
derable time the past few years at
different resorts and has made a
study of swimming pools. The new
pool will be larger than the one at
Shippard Springs.
The main structure will be of con
crete, four feet below the ground sur
face and four feet above. The depth
of water at the low end will be three
feet, gradually sloping off to eight
feet at the deep end. Water for the
pool will be supplied from the mill
ditch of the Heppner Milling Com
pany and the entire equipment will
be the most modern and approved
style. A steam boiler will be in
stalled for heating the water and
overhead tanks for the shower baths
will be provided. One of the Iron
clad rules of the new natatorium will
equire every bather to take a show
er bath before entering the main
pool. A number of showers will be
put in.
According to the plans of Mr. Min
or, there will be twelve dressing
rooms on each side of the pool. A
balcony will be built over the dress
ing rooms for the convenience of spe
ctators.
Mr. Minor expects to begin work
at once on the natatorium unless
something untorseenarises! . e.
IN
SEPT, 4TH
Spokane, Wash., Aug. 30 On Sep
tember 4 the Federal Farm Loan
board will hold hearings in Spokane,
to determine upon the creation of a
farm loan district to serve the north
west and to decide at which point
one of the 12 farm loan banks shall
be located to serve this territory. The
board will hold Its meetings in the
Federal building beginning at 10 o'
clock in the morning.
As this is the only hearing the
board will hold ln the Inland Impire
or in the states of Washington and
Idaho it will be of exceptional im
portance to the farmers of the north
west. The board will undoubtedly
be more interested In hearing from
the farmers than from anyone else as
the rural credit law creating these
banks are passed for the benefit of
the farmers and the banks are really
the farmers' banks. Farmers from
all points In Washington, Idaho and
Montana and Oregon will gather in
Spokane on September 4 to present
their case personally to the board.
One of the most vital points to be
considered by the board is the for
mation of the district. Undoubtedly
strong pressure will be brought to
bear to attach the northwest with
California and locate a bank In Cali
fornia or to attach the northwest to
the Dakotas and Minnesota and lo
cate a bank in one of these states.
Whether a homogeneous district
comprising the northwest is formed
and whether the bank is located at
some central point that will adequate
ly serve the farmers of the five north
western states will depend very large
ly upon the interest taken by the
farmers in presenting their own case
to the board.
The members of the farm loan
board comprise men who are the
leaders in finance and especially In
farm finance. They are: William
G. McAdoo, secretary of the treasury;
George W. Norris, farm loan com
missioner; Herbert Quick, Capt. W.
S. A. Smith and Charles E. Lobdell.
H happens that September 4, the
date the Farm Loan board will hold
its Spokane hearing, Is also the open
ing day for the Spokane Interstate
fair. There will be a full program of
racing and other big events, so that
the farmers attending the hearings of
the board will be able also to attend
the fair while in the city. Secretary
McAdoo and his entire board will at
tend the fair in a body.
FOR SALE Several head of work
horses, both broke and unbroken.
Can see them at my Tub Springs,
ranch. JAS. CARTY.
.Ji t
