TO
0
J. A. MENZIES, Editor and Publisher. "Here the Press the People's Rights Maintain, Unawcd by Influence and Unbribed by Gain." For All That Is Right In The Republicai Pail
Vol. XXXIV, No. 22 35 YEARi ' YALE, St. Clair County, Mich., THURSDAY, August 31, 1916 $1.00 Per Year, In Advance
SLEEPER NOMINATED
4,
Travel
Joys
come to those who have the
money to make leisurely trips.
Why don't you plan to see
something of the country this
year? It's mighty good coun
try to get acquainted with!
Start a Travel Savings Account
With . Us This Week
Yale State Bank
1 dozen best 10c Fruit Jar
Rings FREE with every
dozen Pints, Quarts or Half
Gallon Fruit Jars
3 doz. 10c Jar Rings, 25e
6 doz. 5c Jar Rings, 25c
New stock of ground and mixed
Spices in bulk or 10c packages.
Oakland Pure Cider Vinegar.
Cochrane s
5
No need looking any further for
oc
v We have a complete line
at right prices.
MATHEWS & WIGHT
Yale's Leading Druggists.
: . .. v. 4 ' :;, . ' f;,' '
if!";:?--
rr-.
JtV ft '. x
SCHOOL
Jl lililu 1 ULuUil 1
EVERYTHING IN READINESS AND PROSPECTS
BRIGHT FOR BIG ATTENDANCE ON OPENING
DAY. BUT FEW NEW TEACHERS.
Tho Yalo l'ublic Schools will oiien for the year on Tuesday, the fifth of
Septembqr.
The building is being thoroughly cleaned, the floors oiled and the whole
put in first-class shape for business.
We have a class of about twenty of our own students to enter the high
school. ' These together with the large number to enter from .the outside
will without doubt make the largest freshman class in the history of our
high school.
We have just installed a new program clock which is one- of the finest
additions to our equipment which we have ever made. Practically all the
schools in large cities ay supplied with such a clock equipment and it is
found to be a great addition to the cfliciency of any school system. This
clock and its accessories, which is a gift of our splendid graduating class
of last June, has been installed at an expense of "$135. This class was the
largest and in many respects the finest ever graduated from Yalo High.
We were and are especially proud of this class and as the classes to come
enjoy the benefits of their splendid donation to the school, we are all bound
to hold them in grateful remembrance.
We shall be delighted to show the clock and explain its operation to any
and all of the friends of our schools. Come and see us.
There have not been many changes "in our teaching force and we are
looking forward to the best year in the history of the schools.
N. J. Drouyor ; Superintendent
Richard M. Johnston, Principal, Athletics and Mathematics
Jessie McCall English and History
Myrtle Buck ' Assistant English and History
Edna Ritchie .Latin and German
N. J. Drouyor 4 4 Science
Grammar School Departmental Plan for Uth, 7th and 8th Grades,
Gladys M. St. Clair Arithmetic and Reading
Gladys Heying Grammar and Geography
Marion Layman . .History, Civics and Reading
Mildred Pickett Fifth Grade
00 Irimary School
Nina tDrown 4 , , Fourth Grade
Dora Hubbell , Third Grade
Gladys Whitmer , . 4 .Second Grade
Phebe Roy . .First Grade
Eva Petit , Kindergarten and Drawing
Oar grade course of study has been thoroughly revised and several
change made which we fee 1 very sure will greatly increase th efficiency
of our grade work. Some few changes are being made in the text books
where it was clear thate old books were out of date. All books will be Bold
at the school house as usual on Tuesday afternoon.
I will be in my office at sceool building on both Friday and Saturday of
this week to consult with parents and particularly new students in regard
to their work for the year. Shall be glad to meet and welcome boys and
girls who are planning to enter high school.
N. J. Drouyor, Supt.
Returns Sluw Bad Axe Man An
tfasy Winner. Cavanagh Is
Defeated but Windsor and
Vincent Win Out.
Tuesday w is nenrly a perfect day for
the rrpMMicau ItTtorB of Ya'e, and
llr.M-kway township, for, with the ex-cr-i'iion
of Win. Cavaough for drain
roininisHioiier, every man w ho received
a majority in inese preciiiCiH was nom
inated. Sleeper was our choice for
governor, and dpopite the weak, cheap
opposition put up he has a handsome
majority In this locality, and return?
from the btate indicate that he wilt
have a plurality of about 12,000.
The many warm, personal friends of
Steve Windsor in this, his home town,
are much pleased over hid handsome
majority in the nomination for the
ofllce of sberinT of St. Clair county, lie
received the largest majority of any of
the county candidates, and llavlland,
who was championed by the minority
in these parts, had to be satisfied with
third position, being next to Kobert
son in a three-cornered light. The
splendid vote which Steve rolled up is
just another piece of evidence which
goes to prove that eyery knock is a
boost.
But best of all, when the votes were
All counted, Joe Vincent had "slid
home" with enough votes to make him
the republican nominee for county
clerk.
If Cramton isn't satisfied with the
way Yale and vicinity stood by him,
we might suggest that someone make
a motion mac "ine secretary De in
structed to cast a ballot, etc." Spears
was distanced in the 11 ret quarter. Mr.
Cramton is the right man in the right
place and the people of the Seventh
district realize that be has more than a
passing acquaintance (even in Wash
ington) and they don't care a rap "who
is Spears."
Uut or a total or ziz votes cast on
Primary Day in Yale, there were only
five Democratic- ballots cast.
On page five we publish the count as
"she" was piled up in Yale.
Rev. Bragg Goes to Adrian
It is with the deepest regret that we
this week announce the remotal from
our city of ltey. Chas. Uragg and fam
ily, who leave on Thursday next for
Adrian to make tneir future nome. a
the recent Conference of the M. P.
church llev. Uragg was appointed
traveling evangelist for the state and
has decided to make his headquarters
in that city.
Iter. Bragg has had charge of the
Yale and West Bro:kway appoint
ments four years and in that time has
endeared himself to eyery member of
the churches. 11 e is alio highly respect
ed by every citiren in Yale who is not
affiliated with his church.
Mrs. Bragg will be greatly missed by
the ladies of the church, among whom
she was a general favorite, always
ready and willing to do her share in
any work that was for the good of
the church. The family will be great
ly missed by a host of friends, but all
loin in wishing them success in their
new home.
In speaking of his successor llev.
Bragg says: "Iter. Crandall comes to
Yale with a fine record as a strong pul
pit man and an excellent pastor, with
a successf al ministry of seventeen years.
His strong fort is sociability."
To the incoming pastor, Hev. P. L.
Crandall. we extend the hand of wel
come. v e epeatc ror an or our citizens
In hoping that "you'll like 1 ale.
Delegates to Dem. Convention.
The following delegates were named
Tuesday to attend the Demoaratlc
First ward H. K. Barr, Geo. Stable
ford and L. Hector.
Second ward .las. Stirling, Wm. h.
I 4 V tr Val-lo
Third ward Adrian Popplewell, K.
E. Andreae and Peter Gleason.
The Iron Claw
HIQH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY
CRADE IX. X. , XI. XII.
n2"sn Composition 38 Composltion-Khctorlc 38 English Literature 38 AmerkanTTtcrature 19
MathCmat,CS Cnma-aiSrtlcH Com.tr, 38 . 'SSt9 ,
1 Iistory Ancient 38 ' Medieval and Modern 38 United State and Clvlci 38
Sclcnce rKnl919 rhylotfrapny38 Phy.lc.38 Cheml.tr, 38
.
tIn Ikginnlna 38 Caetar 38 Cicero 38 Vh-fill 38
Ccrman B8lnnlntf38 CUuk. 38
1. Fiaure. refer to the number of week, a .ubject U taken.
2. Senior review, are given during the second .emc.ter. but no credit I. given toward graduation.
3. The requirement, for graduation are: Credit in one four-,ear subject, two two-year .ubjectfc and enough additional work to
make in all the equivalent of fifteen one-year .uhjectk
4. The requirement, for admiiwlon to the Unlver.lty of Mkhljfan are fifteen one-year .ubject. of which the following muM be offered:
Three year, of Kntflish. two year, of a foreign language, on year of Algebra and one year of one of the Klence. 1'hy.ica, Chemi.tr,, Bot
any or Zoology. 1 hey must embrace two Mihject. of three unit. each.
5. Two years of Mathematics and one of Phyik. will count a. a Three-year tuhject. and three year, of Mathematki and one of
Physic, will count a. a four year subject
6. All students must take three year, of English and do the prescribed rhetorical work.
7. While It will be seen from the above that our course of .tudy a. now offered give, considerable liberty In the choice of .uhlcet. to
he pursued, it I. understood that all student, are to consult the .upcrlntcndent before classification anJ be guldwd by him in the .election
of wot k.
STOP AND KEFLECT
VOU who have i-ettlcil ia matrimony you who in
A tend to Hinnc day think of those around whom
your whole thoughts are centered. Think of the duty im
potied upon you to provide comfort and happiness for tiiem.
Yon Can't Provide for Them with an Empty Purse
Wouldn't it be wiae for yon to begin im ure now so that
foali bo able to provide against poverty? Yon don't hmrm
to acre much bat jroa mint ure tryolarly,
Pat Twor fond. here, wlirrr aafety and personal arriee go hind la band
with ronarienlloo. effort.
YALE, MICHIGAN
OFFICERS
AESleeper, President ,Vu President
W.F.Ruh .Vice Pre juiemr E F. Feud .'Cashier CRAddlltS .Aul Cashier
Does Your Watch or Clock
Need Repairing?
If so, brim; it to us and we will put it in good shape,
hnvo had the rxpork-nco nud can do your work right.
Our Motto: Neatness nnd promptness.
Wo 0
L. Roy Fuller, - Yale, Mich. J
.Auction Sale.
The undersigned, having given up farming, will offer for bale by public
Auction at the premiers, 1 mile wett and x, mile south of Avoca
or 3 miles west and mile south ot Old 11 rock way, on
Tuesday, Sept. 5th, 1916
The following described personal property: Span of mules 10 yfa old,
wt 2(150; mare colt 2 yra old; gelding colt 2 yrs old; red cow 4 years old,
due March 15; red cow 3 yrs old due April 2; 3 yearlings; 3 6priug calves;
brood sow due Aug. 2fl; 3 shoats 5 months old; Superior fertilizer disc
drill, Kmpire hoe drill, Sterlirg hay loader, two (J it Deerlng mowers,
Osborne binder, side rake, dump rake, 2 two horse cultivators, 2 one
horse cultivators, set discs and trucks' for same, laud roller, Syracuse
sulky plow, 3 walking plows, 2 sets spring-tooth h.trrows, set spike
tooth harrows, 2 narrow tire wagon with boxes and racks, wide tire
wagon with box, 3 top buggies, 1 new, 2 buggy poles, 2 sets bobsleighs,
"IH h p gasoline engine, power cutting box, corn sheller, DeLaval cream
separator, 3 sets double and 1 set 6ingle harness, fi-qt. sausage stutler
and lard press, 50 gallon steel oil barrel, about 80 spring chickens, about
40 hens, iron kettle, ropes, forks, pulleys and other articles.
Sale begins at one o'clock p. m. sharp.
t'SUAI TEliMS
ORRIS BARRY, Proprietor
George W. Bell, Auctioneer
t3T"Wo SPECIALIZE in OKOCEU1ES OF QUALITY.
..SCHOOL DAYS..
arc here again and the youngsters
won't have as much time to run
to the store for your needs, but
on their way to school you can send
them in with a list of what you want
and we will deliver it promptly.
Let your slogan be-"TayIor's for Groceries."
Store open evenings.
...PLEED TXjOIS...
Phone 49 - Prompt Delivery - Yale
Try an ad. and see if it doesn't bring results.
