| ^ ^ .a .? .. ~ Cr'-lf r\ 15? "FromPrtu to Home
/|., K^i fllTl^ fVt'Y'Y'Y'Vt'V OKlMfi* ffl W /
Temperature for hours H I B B T M B ' B B 1/ B B B B B fl B B J I B I M ??
emliiiK p.m.: Hicthest. at 4 p.m. A <1 m Br rll B B UT B B B B B B B B f\ I 9 ^
1 ^ilviUiUj .. ?
CLflSIMl XGW YORK STOCKS PAGE 27 191*. Dally Arerwb .9.9911 Saatay, 98,071.
No. 29.50& WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBFJi 15, 19.16-TWENTY-KIG11T PAGES. ? ONE CENT.
r : J j " ! ~ ""
GERMANS STRIKE II
. FRENCH AS BRITISH!
KEEP UP ADVANCE '
i
.
Teutons Gain Slightly, But Suffer
Heavily in Attacks on
Ablaincourt Line. !'
j
HAIG TAKES BEAUCOURT, ;;
PUSHING BEYOND TOWN \
More Than 5,000 Prisoners Have C(
_ I .
Been Captured in Ancre Region, ;A
London Announces. i c<
. : 111
By the Associated Press. f jj
LONDON. November 1~?.?With the ]f
battle between the British and the Ger- jv
mans still racing around the Ancre j p.
brook the (lermans have struck the jr
French lines a hard blow at the other
extremity of the Soninie fighting front. |
attacking early today between Ablain- v?<
ourt and the ?'haulnes woods, south of D
the river. ;
Paris declares that this attack, which jZ
was desperately pressed, with the as-I m
sistanee of liquid fire, resulted in a tc
in
gain of ground only east of Pressiore,
half way between Chaulnes and Ablain-j
court. Here the Germans reached a
group of ruined dwellings. : ^
The latest news from the British p
offensive in th?> -Vnrrf reirion rpnortprt . v.
den. Haig's troops pressing 011 beyond
the village of jfteaucourt-Sur-Ancre. the m
ground about which has been well con- af
solidated. The taking of more than th
;>.u00 Herman prisoners has been of- j
iicially announced. I w
North of the Somme I'aris announces d<
j>rogress for the French in the St. ;
Pierre Vaast wood region, where possession
of dominating ground at Sail- ! ro
lisel is facilitating their operations. <
Today's othcial report from Berlin ; tr
admits the British captured the village ,
of Beaucourt. but says that everywhere
else their violent assaults broke down '
with heavy losses. j sa
Describing the most recent fighting, sh
the French official statement says: J th
"North of the River Somme we have . th
made progress to the north of the 1
wood of St. Pierre Vaast. The activity to
of the artillery was fairly spirited . w
last night in the region of Saillisel. ' nc
South of the Somme the bombardment j th
which has been going on for two days , ns
in the region of Ablaincourt and ITes- th
siore took on last night great intens- : hi
:ty and was followed this morning by of
a German counter offensive in which j jv
large forces took part, directed upon ' id
the positions taken by us on the 7th '
of November. From the Ablaincourt
sugar works as far as the wood of
Phaulnes the attacks were delivered
with ferocity, beginning at 6 o'clock pj
in the morning. In spite of the ex- ! a
tent of this attack and the use of large
quantities of flaming liquids, together
with tear-producing shells, the enemy i M
was subjected to a sanguinary check. bJ
Germans Suffer Heavily. ft
"South of the sugar works opposite ^
Ablaincourt and Pressiore as well as
in the wood south of Pressiore, French
artillery and French machine guns **
broke the waves of the enemy's as- th
saults. The Germans suffered heavy ci
.osses.
"Only some detachments of the enemy ^
were able to reach a group of houses
east or i'resstore. A tentative attack cc
uy the enemy delivered on Fressiore at
i/uiotk yesterday afternoon was driven
back with hand grenades. This en- a*
w tire region is still under bombardment, ai
out the shell tire has been eiliciently o 1
< ourilered by the French. g(j
"East of Rheims a surprise attack
i>; German forces upon one of our
minor positions in front of Fresnes resuited
Hi failure." nei
Success Highly Important. ot
i i ??j>rrij:ht. by tij?- I'r?xH. > i71
WITH THK BRITISH ARMIES IN tj
FRANGE, via London, November la.? G
The British advance along both sides
of the Autre, which continued yester- tvl
day with the capture of the village of I*
Beaucurt. is considered by the- British ks
commanders as one of the most im- '
porlant successes in the four rrfonths of
the offensive. They insist especially
01. the relatively insignificant nature
o! the German resistance in a position ^
which they consider of great strategic
,u,portaru e and one of the most highly
fortified on the entire western front.
Moie than .i.OOo prisoners nave oeen j
collected in the extensive subterranean al
guile* *es ami cna rubers which w ere
sunk on both sides <,i tL?- valley and
were miles in extent. **
Fi'*e Hundred Gefrnanr- surrendered . ki
.n a tunnel near- Sr. i'jerre Divion, ! r
which was a mile ami a hail long. This e
tunnel gav* ucn? to scoi es o: elec- 1 J
ti:c-lit chambers in which companies lil
o? intantiy were housed and which j n<
or a.: -'i quantities of machine guns , f
ami bombs A n??t !>. > ~tm :
' ?" 'nwnei a _ VV
-A'-if caught iri a ravine south of Hfau- .
...on' - H.?n;? l. where they were cut off or
Th tii ~t attack on Morulay after- Si
noon. . h?
m
Trapped by Barrage Fire. Z.
< <
The British success south of the ki
A:- r # was increased owing to the fact
that th? tiermans in this section were'
0:1 the point of heing relieved by fresh
troops when the attack was launched, p
Tl- < was that twice the normal
3tr? ngth of the- garrison was trapped
b> th>- huriage fire. Anionic the prison*
: s taker. h?-re w? re many men of
the '--ohi 1 n fa n I r y, of which the I>uke of
Albany is honorary colonel-ln-chief. b
Tr - rc?n:,.-r:t lost heavily. According jr
t.? the prisoners the duke was waiting}
in the rear to inspect the regiment<''
w I f-n i? l?fr the fitch time line. 3t
T: r: . jority ??f tlie infantry fighting ti
v..i <:<. . with grenades instead of bayo- j
nets The British swarmed over the '
.-ur!a? ? ln'tWfM. th? trench lines an'i r''
l.urled showers ??f bomhs into the 'lerman h
c.igoiits and shelters, capturing in quick ; w
. * . |(.ll.ilin iwv*.- Ul Tlie O
r t j ; i: r; German trenches bet ween Beau- i t
i;'/.':? H.. mi' ! ami }{t ;ujcoiirl. 1'rix.nu rn a
fr>?r; frusslan <;uaM? told the Asso.
Br.-^s <orrespondent that th?- i? r- r
i British bombardment destroy ed tin; p
ni;ir};in?; gun emplacements and made r? - ?
sistaia-e to t he infanthy charge impossible
. Thev said the> wer?- cut off from j,
tK?-,-ir reserves on an entire front of seven v
?r11 !e-s. w 1. i< h was isolat ed by t>1 - British > .
< urtain fin- They declared they were 'l
glad t<> surrender.
A tank which he!p?-d to destroy machine ^
gun positions at the bottojn of the valley
south of the A rare was attacked with
bombs by the hermanK who swarmed ti
about it m bin'- numbers. All of the ,|
attackers were killed by the guns of the
tank * j K
Two-thirds of the British casualties j a
south of the Ancre were walking ?-:tses. 0
The total losses were lighter in proportion
than in any previous operation of the
pa.-' four months. The British attack 'I'
was pressed coiit'iiUousB last night. AH I
ground us far as Beau, ourt has been well A
consolidated and the troops are pushing 1 w
bejond l-Veaele. The Germans so far 1 fi
have not attempted any counter attacks. " t>
f/ILUAM HITZ MAY
GET D.C. JUDGESHIP
Ippointment to Late Justice
Anderson's Place May Be
Announced Today.
S NATIVE OF THE DISTRICT
Attorney General Gregory probably j
ill announce today that William Hitz :
f the legal staff of the Department of
ustice, practicing before the Court of ;
laims, has been selected by President
uson as a justice of the Supreme
ourt of the District of Columbia, suc?eding
the late Justice Thomas H. |
nderson.
Mr. Gregory saw President Wilson 1
>r a short time this morning, and adlitted
that the filling of this vacancy : i
:id been taken up with the President. 1
e would not state Who had been sected,
but said that later he might
ive an announcement to make. The
resident made no appointments durig
the day, but saw Mr. Gregory at
le latter's request.
As Mr. Hitz is understood to have 1
'en the choice of Mr. Gregory for the
istrict position, the conclusion was
ached today that the President has <
*sented to the selection and authored
Mr. Gregory to make the an- j
uncement. The nomination would go
i the Senate when that body convenes
December. i
Is Choice of Attorney General.
There have been a number of asrants
for the supreme bench of the
istrict, but the generally known fact .
i.ti .hi. iiiijs \\;irs mtr I'liuiee ui Air. |
regory prevented most of them from j
aking a campaign or soliciting the
isistance of influential men. The only j
ling that would interfere with the j
ishes of Mr. Gregory, it has been un- j
rstood, would be that the President j
mself had some one he had preferred :
r the honor. i
'hief Justice Covington of the Dis- 1
ict Supreme Court today expressed ,
e hope that the President has decided 1
>on a justice to fill the vacancy. He
id business at the court was in such
iape that it was almost imperative 1
at an appointment should be made at
e earliest possible date.
Justice Covington knows nothing as
who is to be appointed, although he ;
ill probably be consulted before antuncement
is made. He said today i
at if it was true Mr. Hitz was to be I
lined there could be no objection on
e part of the court, as Mr. Hitz was
ghly regarded by the bench and bar
the District, was a man of progresse
tendencies, liberal ideas and high
eals.
Was Born in Washington.
' 1
Mr. Hitz, when appointed to the Deirtment
of Justice February 3, 1913, "
id assigned to work in the Court of i1
aims, was a resident of Chevy Chase, . r
d.. and a practitioner at the District , 1
lr. He has been a close personal *
iend of Mr. Gregory, frequently tak- 1 t
ig motor and other trips with the j ?
ibinet officer. ; 'f
Mr. Hitz is a Washingtonian. From : f
[99 until shortly after the beginning of 1
e present administration he was asso- . 1
ated with the law firm of which Wayne
acVeagh is a member. Mr. Hitz was i
>rn here, the son of John Hitz. the first
>nsul of Switzerland to the United
:ates. His father was for many years 1
isociated with Alexander Graham Bell
id was for a number of years in charge 5
' the Volta bureau in Georgetown, the 1
>n being a graduate of Georgetown Law ;
hool and Harvard University. ,
It is understood that Mr. Hitz was (
lected for the bench from eight
imes submitted to the Attorney Gen- 1
al, some of the active candidates and
;hers put forward by friends and ad- >
irers. William Henry White, former- 1
an assistant corporation counsel for
le District of Columbia, arid J. M.
udger, jr., of North Carolina, former- '
a representative in Congress, are
vo of these. The name of John K. i \
asky, present United States attorney, \
iis also been mentioned.
CUBA STILL IN DOUBT.
wo Weeks After Election Choice of I
President Is Not Known.
HAVANA. November 1 ">?Two weeks \'
ter the presidential election in Cuba j
ie result is as much in doubt as ever, i
is possible that the country will not '
tow whether President Menocal has been
-elected by the conservative party or
rrn?-r Vice President Alfredo Zayas, the :
tieral candidate, has triumphed, until
-w elections are held in Victoria de Las
urias, v/nenie province. l n^sf; Elections ;
ill not take place until February.
The delay In receipt of official figures
? the presidential election in the United!
tates has done much to calm excitement ; 1
-re. as it was charged that the govern- j
ent was resorting to fraud to defeat
jyas. It had been thought the official [
>unt iti the I'nited States would be ;
iowii here by midnight on election day. !
TO MEET TO SAVE DAYLIGHT, i
hambers of Commerce to Hold Convention
in New" York.
N I; \V YORK. November 15.?The'
loption of the daylight saving plan
y setting the clock forward one hour
i the United States, through public"*
incurrence, from May 1 to September
D, 1917, will be considered at a riaonal
daylight saving convention, to
e held here on January 30 and 31
ext. Chambers of commerce and
oards of trade throughout the country
ill be represented, and the governors
f all states, the mayors of 150 cities,
he American Bankers' Association
rid state banking organizations, the
.merican Federation of Labor and vaious
other commercial, financial, laor
and scientific bodies will be re- I
uested to send delegates.
The American Railway Association
as been asked to lend its support, and
ill /-n nmilfr ?hn ??? /? * ? * ? ?
- - ?' j- "1 un
unuai meeting here today.
'urkey Asked to Explain Detentions.
Secretary I>a rising has cabled fnstrurons
to Ambassador Klkus, at Constannople,
to ascertain why the Turkish
overnment declines to allow wives
nd children of American citizens and
f others who have declared their inKntion
of becoming citizens to ieave
urkey to join their families. The
nited States ?-ruiser I >es Moines is at
lexandria. a short distance from Jaffa,
ith a view of taking these people
rout Jaffa if the Turkish government
ermits.
WANTS TRANSFERS
MADE UNIVERSAL
Federation of Citizens' Association
Petitions Public
Utilities Commission.
MAY TAKE IT TO CONGRESS
Trains- the public utilities commission
to order universal transfers on the
street railways of the District, under
authority of existing: law. the Federation
of Citizens' Associations filed a
petition and.brief today with the commission.
The petition, was filed
through William McK. Clayton, chair
man of the public utilities committee of
tlie federation, which at its last meeting
instructed the committee to take
immediate steps to have universal
transfers adopted.
Mr. Clayton stated today that if the
commission refuses to grant the
petition it is the intention of the federation
to take the matter to Congress
to have special legislation enacted. He
also saM "the practically unanimous
demand of the people, earnestly pressed
for years, for fair dealing on this matter
has been met with a stubborn, uncompromising.
unyielding stand by the
railway companies."
While all agree that the best possible
solution for both people and companies
would be the companies' merger
and consolidation. Mr. Clayton
said, the companies, apparently indifferent
to public sentiment, stand pat
and continue th ir separate organizations
as competing lines.
''Means Rip van Winkle Sleep."
"The commission has now had four
years to deal with this matter and
seems only to have succeeded in tying
t up hard and fast, for the maintenance
af its present position, that the transfer
question is a matter of rate and
not a matter of right, means but a Rip
Van Winkle sleep for universal transfers."
he said.
"When you hurdle across the 'trans
rer pain years or valuations, montns
of companies' hearings and examinations
and then bar over the track the
high jumps of the District courts and
the Cnited States Supreme Court, with
probable reversals and appeals all up
the line, you stretch out a marathon
that none can survive.
"The Federation of Citizens' Associations,
in pursuance of a duty it owes to
its constitutent bodies. seeks the
=horter and the straighter road to accomplishment.
We have a law of Congress
touching this matter which means
sverything or means nothing, and we
propose to find out which. We believe
t means universal transfers, free and
reciprocal."
Petition Based on Act of 1894.
The petition filed by the federation is
oased oij. the act of Congress of August
J, 1S94, requiring all the street wiilvays
of the District whose lines conlect
to enter into reciprocal transfer
elations. Because the act failed to
orovide a penalty for non-compliance
.vith its provisions it remained pracically
inoperative, the petition says,
intil the act of Congress of March 4,
913, creating the public utilities comnission.
This legislation requires the
commission to enforce all laws previously
passed relating to local pubic
utilities.
Text of the Document.
The petition in full follows:
"The petitioners respectfully show to
:he ^jonorable commission:
"That said Federation of < ctizens* Associations
is a voluntary unincorporated
body of residents of the District
of Columbia, made up of delegates duly
elected to said federation by the various
citizens' associations in the Disrict
of Columbia.
"That said citizens' associations, havrig
their habitat in the different secdons
of the District, are composed of
irvei.il l liUUrdflu^ l t.lll?rii? 111 *
United States, resident taxpayers in
he District of Columbia.
"That said Federation of Citizens' Associations
was organized May 20, 1010,
md has held regular stated meetings
since, its present meeting place being
in the Municipal building of the District
of Columbia. Jt is fully officered
md transacts its business through
standing and special committees.
Constant Users of Street Cars.
"That the members of said citizens'
associations are constant users of the
various street railway lines operating
in the District of Columbia and are
dependent upon said Railways for
transportation to and from their respective
places of business in said
district.
"That said Federation of Citizens'
Associations was represented both by
petition and by counsel at a public
Hearing ordered and held by the public
utilities commission on October 20,
l'JRi, 'in the matter of transfers between
street railways in the District
of Columbia.'
"That saiu matter is still before said
public utilities commission, no decision
uf record having been handed down
therein.
"That the Congress of the United
States by act dated August 2, 1X5*4 <2X
Stat., p. 217* provided: Section 5. That
the Metropolitan Railroad Company is
hereby authorized and required immediately
to make reciprocal transfer
arrangements with street railroad companies
whose lines now connect with
its lines and to furnish such facilities
therefor as the public convenience may
require; Provided, That every
street railway company in the District
of Columbia whose lines connect, or
whose lines may hereafter connect,
with the lines of any other street'railway
company is hereby subjected to
the same requirements as to transfers
and upon the similar conditions
as in this section provided in the case
of the Metropolitan Railroad Company
and the lines connecting therewith.'
Intent and Purpose of Congress.
"That it appears to be the clear intent
and purpose of Congress as expressed
in this act to link up and tit
together the various street car lines ol
the district and to provide for theii
joint use as one system in so far as thf
uses and conveniences of the people oi
the District are concerned.
"That said act of Congress provider
no penalty for failure to comply with
its provisions, and to that extent it remained
practically inoperative unti
the act of Congress of March 4. 1913.
"That the act of Congress of March 4
1913, creating the public utilities commission
of the J>istrict of Columbia
provides, paragraph 90: 'That the commission
shall inquire into any neglect
or violation of the laws or regulatiom
in force in the District of Columbia b>
any public utility doing business therein
or by the officers, agents or employes
thereof, or by any person operating
the plant of any public utility
and shall have the power, and it shall
be its duty, to enforce the provisions ol
(Continued on Seventeenth Page.)
M
itfllCMG
The Hungarian stal
OF AN EARLY PEACEl^^tS?
I his expressed convictioi
lace of Russia. He de
Count Apponyi Predicates ' themselves together for
* I Russia, which country
View on Possibility of Con- 'peace of Europe and tl
In his opinion Franci
quering of Rumania. ;
! reconcile herself to pe;n
j Iv relations with her ea
' , i He holds that Great 1;
Bv tie Associated Press.
I an abortive effort to cr
BERLIN, November 11. via London. j a trade rival by appei
November 1 "> (delayed).?The opening o." . that there is nothing
peace negotiations may perhaps be exp o - ohartcter of the three
?d With fair promts of 8UCCMS in toe JJ" l,h0tus"rb?v
course of the coming winter, according to hand. Count Apponyi d
Count Albert Apponyi, veteran Hungarian, organization of the c<
leader and former Hungarian premier. the germs of war ai
Count Apponyi. who is visiting Oflrmany | CelXlo^tte^npt Vtxt
to deliver two address? on Hungarian his-j tj0? at ,.Verv opportun
tory, expressed his view in an interview i lions with which she it
given to a correspondent of the Associated ' ^
Press, in which he discussed the general oees eais o
European situation. "Once this war is fli.
"We cannot expect." lie said, "to see "Europe will probably
peace negotiations opened within the next twenty-five or thirty
few weeks, while the Rumanian campaign until the generation w
is still undecided. However. I regard ojr through this conflict ha
chances for success there as excellent, a d the stage. This shouh
once Rumania is crushed I think both opportunity to a wise
sides will be willing to consider the ques- diplomacy by which th<
tion of peace. of Europe can arrange
"Rumania was the entente's last card against the disturbing
and is proving a losing one. We are mass
ing a big army against the Ruinan.a is Count Apponyi savs
and I think the end will come shortly. Of are shar?Ml bv all lead
course, our progress on the Transylvanian an(1 wjtp the possibl
front is a bit slow, owing to the g,eal certail, .Slavonic elem.
difficultieK of the country and patt.cu- , I)tld by the
larly to the deficiency in rearward com- countrv
munications. These communications are i
far poorer than in the west or even in j
: Galicia and Russia. However, the eniry ! UCADIMP I !\l PDA\
of Rumania into the war has in many j MLnllIIMU I IM UnH\
respects been really advantageous to us. 1 .
Refers Bee.., Rpeeehes. POSTPONED Ul
To illustrate what he regards the im- j
proving chances for peace negotiations, i Formalities Necessar;
Count Apponyi referred to recent j ance Qf Gennan j
speeches of statesmen in the opposing
e fioiol in Qrtrr f
camps. ".\oi i^ioya ueorge, 01 course, j *** ^ijy y
he interjected parenthetically, "but
such as Lord Grey and Chancellor von
? ? . , International courtes
Bethmann-Hollweg. for example. He , . ,
fered with tue hearing
suggested a comparison between the . ...
^ , , , Karl Armgaard Graves
utterances or tliese leaders a year ago. , , ...
charged with an atten
ami at present. "Then, he said, "their1 e
1 $3,000 from Countess
respective standpoints were as far ,.
apart as the poles, but now. although j wof ' ' :in
there are still wide differences between; United States. United
them, they have most appreciably j sioner Anson S. Taylor
drawn nearer. The references to crush-| preliminary hearii.i
ing Germany have been eliminated. 1
from the British pronouncements and ! December fi.
the agitation for annexation is dwind- | Assistant United S
linK i" fjerinaoy. .. I I.euliey told Judge Tayl
< haneellor von Bethmann-Ilollweir. 1
he went on, "has pointed out in his j eminent needed the
latest speech that lie has never de- Prince Hatzfeldt, cot
manded the annexation of Belgium, j (;erman embassy, but l
Such instances as these show, in my e
opinion, that there are now no really j ' >
insuperable obstacles to the opening of i essary before Prince
a dis< ussion on future peace. < >f course, appear. The formalin
, the kingdom of Poland must stand, hut tHkeil up through the St
: 1 believe Russia can be brought to .pj^ f.irt t^;11 a heari
, j reconcile herself to this situation." for today drew a crow
President Wilson Acceptable. !o'ThTu'nlt?'d
fount Apponyi was asked if he j^lUgan''' of^New Yo'rk
thought the impulse to start peace dis- ford and |> h. Marsha
' cussions could come from within the their client to the of
camps of the warring powers or trailed from hjsjt hotel
crowd of "movie oper.
whether an outside impetus, in the form , met ,he front door
*> ??--iiuci ui |juou iMines iimn ;i neu- of cameras.
; trul pe rsonage or power, would be nec- After the attorneys h
r essary. He replied that he saw no rea-I the postponement the
son why neutral mediation should not I lined up again in front
be welcomed when the opportune mo- and surrounded Mr.
; ment to which he had referred should I emerged. He endeav
f | arrive, and added that he knew no rea- ! them, but could not. I
son why President Wilson should not on H street for a few
. J be acceptable as an intermediary. seeing a sheltering ottic
! "We feel, of course." he said, "that Wav, suddenly shot ir:
! President Wilson has not treated us appeared.
' ; fairly and that he has departed from ? ,
j the way of strict neutrality. But, even
though one does not like a person, that Indiana Senators Wll
- .. ? ?, It was stated authorlt
J ernoon that Senator K<
ENCOURAGE THRIFT. Taggart will not perm
' If you have no further use for to- be made against Mr. Ne
day's paper save it for the school Hon- Senator^ Taggart
children's playground fund. been friends of Mr. .
Call Main 6000 and ask for the years, and, it is stated,
nearest public school, and any ac- tion of contesting the r
| cumulation of old papers will be of Mr. New and Mr. W
I sent for. Kern had already writ!
: j Yesterday's record was nearly nine clous letter to Mr. New,
tons. him.
L
1 I
,v
I
' " r
: NOTMUCHINVIEW
tesman believes i
FOR SHORT SESSION
i as to the men- j
dared that the j
defense against i Time of Congress Likely to Be
he characterized |
ie?wor\d. ^uTure j Given Mainly to ApproiH
efforts to re- ! / '
priation Bills.
eeful and friend
stern neighbors, i
S!TiSe?r.?Tae. WILL PLAN INAUGURATION
al to arms, but ;
essential in the ;
nations to pre- ;
"riends. In re- ! Congress will reconvene two weeks ;
er,? on the other f,om next Monday for the "short ses-:
ounatr>evd cont.utls si,jn " " hkh wl? <>x"ire by ??"?"?-j
nd that she is tional limitation at noon March 4. The
essence of her i session is not expected, to be eventful ;
end herdomina- , jfl legislation, as consideration of the
ity over the ru^- . . ,
. rot't ict ; appropriation bills will consume the 1
! major 'part of the time, leaving small |
Peace. room for general legislation,
lished," he said. ! Chairman Fitzgerald of the House i
have at least i committee on a impropriations arrived
years of peace, today and was in his office at the Cap- ,
liich has passed ito'? taking UI> the preliminary work i
h departed from i upon the appropriations. j
1 Kive time and I be a drive to set the bills
through, said Mr. b ltzgerald, but. or ,
and far-seeing J (.otirse, jt will be done. 1 am sending j !
3 western states ; out notices this morning to the sub- j'
i for protection j oommittees having charge of the Diselement
in the j tri< t of Columbia and the legislative.
j judicial and executive bills, which will !
that his views ; j)(. t^e first supply measures taken up. ;
ing Hungarians ; These subcommittees will probably get i
e exception of : down to business next Monday, and it j
;nts in Austria, j js hoped that they or at least one of i
leaders in that J them will be ready to report when the j
' House meets."
Q/\SE Probe of Campaign Expenses. j
j The session wfll he enlivened and in- i
NTH DEC. 6 ' terest added by the investigation of i '
j the expenditures of campaign funds. J
; The democrats propose to probe the re- ;
y for Appear- j publican campaign budget^ to the j
; depths. The republicans say they are j
embassy 0 - ready to come on the carpet and that |
Charges. the democrats mnv "go as far as they!
i like." i j
? The only general legislation likely ;
to be taken up will be bills remaining j
ies have inter- | upon the calendar from the last scs-i '
in the case of sion. There will be a general scram- 1
who has liocn l)I(" to ^et these through, as well as j <
I |icrn?iuii ouis, nut tneir proponents will i
ipt at extorting, have to wrestle with the appropria- ; *
von Bernstorff, ! tions committee at every stage. j 1
ibassiailor to the I J
States Commix- j Must Provide for Inauguration.
today postponed There will have to be some legisla-> <
g before him to it ion providing for the inauguration of ?
! President W ilson, and that will havej<
Itates Attorney j the right of way, of course, over every- i i
or that the gov-J thing. It may be carried, however, in;
testimony of the District appropriation bill, as no i
inselor of the wne wt?uld be ungracious enough to ,
* , . i raise a point of order against it.
hat the permi-s- j ; <
-eminent is nee- ! '
Hatzfeidt may HEEDS BEQUEST OF U. S. !
ies have to be j j (
n^h'ad'be'":^ | Passengers Taken From American
;U'fPmfare m";! Steamer Released by Britain.
nmissioner's o?"- ; SHANGHAI, November 15.?The pas- j 1
rneys, John H. | sengers who were taken off the Ameri- ; (
i!Ka5compahnieed" i ,ran ?>ln? February IS by j c
lice, and were ' British auxiliary cruiser Laurentic, j t
by an eager j while the China was on a voyage from I
ators, and were ! .shanghai to* San Francisco, have ar- (
bv a solid line
: rived hero from Australia, where they '
ai! aare.al upon ! h,'d been ?? ?!- I
camera squad Ihirty-eight Germans. Austrians and
of the building Tu.rks were taken from the steamer
(Jravt-s as he , ^'hina when she was intercepted by;
orecl to escape 1 l,le. i-aurentic. The British authorities !
ie walked west ' ?'aimed lkat the> were concerned in !
feet .and then ia ,,lot for 11 revolution in India. The!
e building door- j lTnited States government sent a note
ito it and dis- ' to ('reat Britain asking for the re- i
! lease of the passengers, and last May
j Great Britain announced that she
would comply with the request. The
1 Not Contest. order for the release was made in the (
middle of September,
atively this aft- ,
!i7Yncon?eT?o Suffragists to Besiege Congress.
w and Mr. Wat- SAX FRANCISCO, November 15.?The
and Kern have next Congress will be besieged by the
slew for forty j-irgest suffrage lobby in history, achave
no inten- , . . , ..
eturns in favor cording to speakers at a post-election
atson. Senator i luncheon of the national woman's t
:en a most gra- party here yesterday. Victory was pre- p
, congratulating (dieted for national suffrage before Con- a
gress adjourns. t
*
, r
V
URGE RETIREMENT
OFU.S.EMPLBYES
Speakers Propose Campaign
for Early Action by
Congress.
MASS MEETING TO BE HELD
A movement for a mass meeting in
the interest of retirement for govern-!
ment employes ^to be held in January j
was inaugurated last night at a joint .
meeting of civil service employes held
at Naval Lodge Hall, on the invitation j
of the joint retirement committee of J
the naval gun factory. R. H. Alcorn,!
chairman of this committee, presided. \
Mr. Alcorn summarized the work of|
his committee during last year, and ap- ;
pealed for the co-operation of all gov
ernment employes in the effort to secure
relief for the aged workers in the ;
government service.
Herbert I>. I'.rown gave an account of
the retirement systems in use in the
city of New York, and stated that the
experience there showed that the cost j
of retirement should be faced boldly at
the beginning of the establishment of af|
system of retirement for government
employes.
As a Business Proposition.
He stated that the heads of all of the
executive departments fully recognized 1
the fact that it is a business proposi- ;
tion to establish a retirement system I
and to separate thereby the cost of;
superannuation from the actual cost of i
running the departments.
He stated that the bureau of effi- j
eiency was tabulating the statistical '
cards sent out to every employe of the i
government in accordance with the |
Senate resolution of May 16. 1916. just ;
is rapidly as they are received from i
the departments, and would report to j
the Senate at the earliest possible mo- j
ment.
As a matter of human interest he i
cited the fact that emphasis was laid !
on the necessity for the correct age '
being given, and said that the ages ;
given for the men corresponded very ,
generally with those previously given
in other records, but that the ages of i
the women in many cases were report
cka 11 win unt- iu ten years older titan
previously given.
Dr. Uewellyn Jordan urged the joining
of all forces working for retirement
in one general movement to show
Congress the great need*for immediate
action and the great benefit to be derived
by the government from the enactment
of an equitable retirement j
law. On his suggestion a special committee
was appointed to invite all civic j
organizations of Washington to par- ;
ticipate in the retirement mass meeting
in January.
May Act This Session.
M. F. O'Donoghue stated that al- j
though the coming session of Congress
was a short one. certain indications
made him think it possible that Congress
would act on a general retirement
law at this session.
J. W. McOonnell stated that the retirement
problem presented two separate
parts at the present time; first,
the care of the present superannuates. :
and second, the care of those who may
become superannuated in the future.
He stated that the present superannuates
should be provided for immediately
and that the matter of caring for
those who may become superannuated
in the future might be approached a
little more deliberately.
H. T. LaClair urged that in preparing
for the mass meeting and in advocating
retirement legislation in the near future,
emphasis be laid on the abstract principle
of retirement and no particular .
stress laid on concrete plans.
The officers and affiliations of the joint
retirement committee of the naval gun
factory are as follows: Chairman. Ft. H.
Alcorn. International Mulders, Xo. _Tf?.
vice chairman, R. M. Carnahan. Colum- ,
bia I.edge. No. 174. I. A. of M.: secretary.
Dr. C. Eder Reed. National Asso- |
iation of I'nited States Civil Service
Employes at Navy Yards and Stations;
treasurer. J. W. McConnell. Eeadingmen
una Quartermen s Association.
PLANS ARE DISCUSSED !
TO PENSION TEACHERS j
Central Committee Named for Cooperative
Work to Secure From
Congress a Law.
Plans for having: all public school organizations
in the District of Columbia
work together at the ne::t session of :
Congress for the passage of a law which j
ivill pension teachers of the public edu- '
rational system of this city, who have
jrown old in service, were begun yesLerdav
afternoon at a meeting at the
Cranklin School.
At this time representatives were present
from practically every organization
connected with the public schools, as well
is several of the higher school officials
ind members of the hoard of edu cation. .
Herbert D. Drown, chief of the Cnited
States bureau of efficiency, described th.- ,
lew teachers' pension bill which he has
Irawn up and which the teachers plan
o have presented at the next session of
ongress. A central committee, comtosed
of members representing various J
jrganizations, was organized.
Central Committee Members.
This committee is headed by Miss Ke- <
>ecca E. Shan ley. president of the Teach- 1
rs' Branch of the Woman's Department
if the District of Columbia Section of
he National Civic Federation.
Other members are Miss Marion !
'lark, president, and Alfred Doolittle'
?f the High School Tteachers' Assooiaion;
Hoy Claflin, president of the High I
School Teachers' Union; Allan Davis, j
iresident of the High School i'rinci- i
>als' Association: Selden Ely, president ,
if the Supervising Principals' Associa- j
ion; Miss Adelaide Davis, president of I
he Grade School Principals' Associa- [
ion; Miss Clara Stutz. president of the i '
Jrade Schools Tteachers* Association;!
diss Helen Gordon, president, and Miss
"raighill. member of the Teachers'
'lub; Miss Josephine Mason, president
if the Kindergarten Association; Mrs j
t. Wilder, president of the Special
'hild Study Club; Dr. E. G. Kimball. 1
resident of the Teachers' Aid and An- 1
mity Association; Stephen S. Kramer, i
resident of the Immediate Relief Asociation:
Miss Sara E. Simons, presi- *
lent of the English Journal t'lub; A. T. <
ituart, director of intermediate instruc- t
ion; Miss Flora Hendley, supervising ^
rincipal, sixth division, public schools,
.nd Miss Alice Deal, a high school c
eacher. t
$
RAILROADS BEGIN
SUITS FOR TESTS
OFADAMSONLAW
Pennsylvania and New York
Central Ask Injunctions
Against U. S. Attorneys.
SEEKING TO PREVENT
ENFORCEMENT OF ACT
Complainants Aver That Congress
Has No Power to Abridge Liberty
of Contract.
Hr tlio A^snciati'rl Prrsu.
PHII-ADKLPHIA, November 1 ?Tha
Pennsylvania Railroad Company today
filed in the federal district court here
a bill in equity asking for an in-juj ? t
ion against the three Init-d States
district attorneys in Pennsylvania forbidding
them from bringing prosecutions
against the railroad company
under the Adamson eight-hour law.
The court is asked to declare that the
eight-hour law is unconstitutional and
void.
The bill avers that the complainant
is advised that the requirement of the
Adamson act in respect to the wages
to he paid after January 1 is legally
invalid and inoperative, and consequently
not binding upon the complainant
because of the many possible
inconsistent and conflicting interpretations
of the act, and because of the
further fact that neither now nor at
the date of the passage of the act was
there in existence any day, whether
CUP/..1 K.i- hnnrc nr U'ftrlc rlnne that
could be regarded as a standard day,
nor wasvthere any wage paid which
could be regarded as a standard wage
for the employes embraced in the act.
It is further averred that Congress
has n<^ power to tix a standard day or
wage, as the Adamson law attempts
to do. The law is further inoperative,
the bill says, because Congress has not
defined "how or in what manner the
present standard day's wage should
be ascertained and determined."
The act is unconstitutional, the bill
a\ers, because it seeks to deprive the
complainant as well as the employes
subject thereto of liberty of contract
in respect to the terms of employment
and the wages to be paid.
New York Central Acts Also.
NEW YORK, November IT,.?The New
York Central railroad today filed suit
in the federal district court to test the
constitutionality of the Adamson eighthour
law. The suit is directed against
the three federal district attorneys of
New York state and the chairman of
each of the four brotherhoods in the
state.
The road's principal contention is. according
to Albert H. Harris, general
counsel, that the Adamscn law "is In
no sense a regulation of commerce, but
a temporary and arbitrary increase in
wages for the brotherhood men." He
said as soon as answer to the suit w?a
filed an injunction against the opera
tion of the law would be asked.
Announcement that the New York,
New Haven and Hartford railroad
\*ould also fib1 suits to test the constitutionality
of thi Adati.son law was
made here todav by Howard Klliott.
the road's president.. The suits will
be tiled in New York. Massachusetts.
Rhode Island and Connecticut, he sjid.
within a short ti ne.
Railway Managers in Conference.
Railway managers comprising the "national
conference committee" continued
today consideration of whether wholesale
legal action to defeat the Adamson
eight-hour law will be taken or
whether a limited series of injunctions
will be filed. The consensus of opinion
was said to favor the former course,
which would result in approximately
.">.000 actions, covering the entire railroad
territory of the United States.
Whichever method is selected, the
cases are expected to be in the courts
within ten days. In view of the fact
that the Newiands committee is to
hold public hearings on the railroad
situation generally, beginning next
Monday, there was an indication that
definite action would be postponed until
me COnCiUMUIl o? no ftr iicoi
Points Developed.
Two developments stood out prominently
today in the new situation anting
from the forthcoming: application
of the Adamson law:
"First. The announcement that the
managers of the roads would probably
apply for injunctions against th?* law
in every federal court district in the
I nited States, with a separate suit in
behalf of every one of the 200 railroads
in every district which they enter.
Should this step l?e taken and
the litigation involved run the ordinary
course of legal procedure, the cighlhour
law will he from six months to
two years behind time in going into
effect. ? ven if found constitutional, it
was declared.
Second. The brotherhood* of trainmen
announced tr at thev v ill make,an appeal
to President Wilson to give them,
?>n January 1. next, the eight-hour day,
whi? h they say was prmnis d them at
Washington last summer vv hen the
strike oid.r was recall* d.
Will Not Contest Suits.
The brotherhoods, it was announced,
will not contest the s'uits to he insti......
J I... Mti.l Mill rw.t > r. <->.> u?
by counsel in court to argue the constitutionality
of the eight-hour law.
They contend the duty logically devolves
upon the Attorney General, and
will look to the judicial branchvof the
government to tight their battle.
Prior to his departure for his home
in Cleveland, Warren i>. Stone, chief of
the brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers.
declared that should the law be
stricken from the books on the ground
of unconstitutionality the brotherhoods
would depend on President Wilson to
have framed another act which will
withstand the attacks of hostile counsel.
Department to Defend Suits.
Attorney General Gregory has decided
:hat suits by railroads against enforcenent
of the Adamson eight-hour law will
>e defended by the Department of Jua:ice.
The defense to be presented in each
rase will be worked out between Solicitor
Jeneral Davis and other department ofll ials
with United States attorneys in
arious jurisdictions.
The department today was unable to
letermine whether it would be necessary
to defend each of the many suits
H : |
