Do You Play Pofy er?
Read Curtis's Famous Stories
Every Sunday in the T.-D.
flictjntonii ?"uncs-?Hs|)atrij
Asfa the T-D for It
Its Information Bureau Is at
Your Disposal
(36th YEAR
p\?iV: ?i;u ?UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS
SPEND $500,000 ON
FREIGHT TERMINAL
Coast Line Ready to Carry Out
Plan Projected Before
European War.
ASKS CITY FOR PERMISSION
Aldermen Vote to Allow Local
R-, F. & P. Trains to
Stop at Elba.
Coincident with the application of
' the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Po
tomac Railroad to be allowed to sus
pend the operation of certain of its
local trains between Hyrd Street Sta
tion and IClbu Station, making the I:<t
tcr the terminus, it was. announced last
Might 011 the floor of the Hoard of Al
dermen that the Atlantic Coast Line
Railroad is now ready to l>cgin the
improvement of the property adjacent
to the Hyrd Street Station at a tost
estimated at *000,000. The announce
ment waa made hy Alderman I'uller, of
''lay Ward, when he presented a pe
tition front the Atlantic Coast l,ine
asking permission to arch nvtr -\rch
.Street for the purpose of laying track,
which will l?e an extension of the con
t t'jmplaied Improvement.
Several years ago the Atlantic '.'oast
l<ine bought property between Ry r<l
Street and the Jauie* River, ftotn Sev
earth to Ninth Street, at a cost placed
at a half-million dollars. It was an
nounced at the time that it would he
eventually converted into freight yards
for the road for the g enera 1 Improve
ment of traffic conditions at the local
lennliin 1.
In -its petition the road also wishes
to close that portion of Hyrd street
extending from Se\.nth to Ninth Street
and Kighth Street from Canal Street
to its southern limit
lli;,\ I> V Til SI'IAI) Mil.
MM ON TKIt St I N \ I,
At the request of Mi. Puller, tlie '
petilion, drawn in the form of an ordi
nance, was referred t r. the i 'onimlltee
on Streets In Int rodtj. Ing the meas
ure Mr I'uller said. "The Atlantic
Coast Line is now ready to no ahead
with the Improvement of its property
which It acquired several years ago,
and Is prepared to spend in the neigh
borhood of a half-million dollars, in
addition t?. the $?00,000 which the
property coat."
I he Atlanti" Coast Line wishes to
arch over Arch Street from its present
an-h used for the Chesapeake and Ohio
Itai I wa > connection. eastwardly to
Ninth Street The interior of the arch
will l?e thlrtx feet in width at the
level of the street and the abutments
approximately ten feet hicli to the
spring line and an eighteen-foot radius
peg men t, making it eighteen (Vrt hiirh
at the eentet above the street. The
construction will be of mass . .n- rete
abutments up to the spring line, r...
enforced concrete :<?. |, Mpan and span
drel walls tf, he <>f conoete The ar?h
will be lltrhted both day and night.
There is no question but that the
Richmond. Frederb ksburg and Poto
tnac Railroad ?* ill have the support ..f
the city of Richmond in its applica
tion to the State Corporation I'ommis
inission to be allowed to stop and start
three local trains at Klba Station. A
resolution offered by .Mr. I'uller direct
ing the i itv Attorney to appear before
the Corporation Commission to advo
cate the granting' of the application of
the railroad was unanimously adopted
j b> the Hoard under a suspension of
the rules, and It now goes to the
Common Council for concurrence.
lti:f)I <|<; N I'M It |.;|{ ok TRAINS
ON IIKI.VIIH'.Iti: S||{
A letter was read from Norman Call,
secretary of the H. F. Jfc p.. setting
forth the reasons why the road wishes
to make the change, and pointing out
the benefit.s which the city would
derive. It would eliminate six move
ments of trains daily between Film atid
l|.vrd Street. This would reduce to a
minimum the lowering and raising of
-afety gates along Itelvldere Street,
and is. In a measure, what the city
has been striving for for a long while.
It would also eliminate delays now
encountered hy through trains from the
North and South on account of the local
service, and would further reduce the
danger caused by the use ,,f the city's
tracks by the steam roads.
'I he following measures, adopted by
the Common Council, were concurred in
by the Roard:
Appropriation of entertain
delegates to the Convent ion of the
Sigma Phi TCpsilon Fraternity: appro
priation of $fi00 for the Virginia Kdu
rational Conference; appropriation of
*1.1,000 for the expense account of the
St reel -Cleaning Department; appro
priation of 57.10 for an automobile for
police traflic service; appropriation of
$11 2.571.15 account of interest and re
demption of the last $2,000,000 bond
issue; resolution directing the School
Hoard to have plans prepared for the
Kensington Avenue School; luipropria
lion ol $,i.iO for the prcservatToft of the
Southern Literary Messenger Huilding
iPoe Huilding); authorizing the clerk
?f the Henrico County Circuit Court to
collect tnxos flue in county prior to
annexation. November 5. I'M I; appro
priation of $2,500 for the Police De
partment expense account; resolution
directing the City Attorney to acquire
right of way through the property of
the Virginia Leather Company and of
Claude R. Sprcnkle for the New Run
sewer; appropriation of $350 for the
Public Employment Hurcau expense
account; ordinance allowing bread,
milk and ice wagons to operate with
out peddlers' licenses; ordinance chang
ing the name of I <o in hardy Street, from
Park Avenue to Grace Street, to Stuart
Circle; appropriation of $o:? for the
expenses of the Dock. River and Ilar
hor Committee members, the Mayor and
presidents of both branches of the
(Continued on feecondPage. j
Stafford County
to Recover Seals
Turn Up in Oyster Bay, After
Being Removed From Courl
llouse During Civil War.
I K|iecia 1 to The Tline.s-Uispatch.)
UVSTKK HA V. X. Y., November 11.?
Tito great seal of Stafford County.
Virginia, and the Circuit Court seal of
tliat county, which were taken from
the Stafford County Courthouse b>
I'nion soldiers during the War Between
the States, turned up in Oyster Ba>
to-day. They are in tlie hands of
Kilward H. Summers, deputy town
clerk. The seals were sent here from
Virginia in 1 v^ |,v his brother. Charles
<; Summers, then a captain in Ceneral
Sirkles's brigade. Sln<:e the war, the
citizens r.f Stafford County have made
various efforts to rvovr the lost seals
L'ntil the present, the whereabouts of
the Stafford seal, like that of the
great seal of the neighboring Fairfax
County, Virginia, has remained a mys
tery to Virginians, despite their eager
ness to recover them.
The attention of Mr. Summers was
railed to-day to the letter of a Virgin
Ian recently published in a New York
paper, appealing for information con
cerning the Fairfax County seal. He
told of his two war-time rellrs, and,
upon heing informed of the search for
them, immediately wrote a lett'r to
the clerk of Stafford County, offering
to return them. The two instruments
are in excellent preservation. Captain
cummers, who sent tliem here from
Virginia, died in ISO.".. During the lat
t* r part of the war lie was a com
niander in President Lincoln's body
guard The Summers family is fine of
the oldest on l.otig Island.
GETS SEAT ON EXCHANGE
Telephone < 1 r r U (?r HrunilMliy llrok
ernge l-'irni Ad\nnrrd to I'ull ^
Membership.
IHv ASK<v|fitei| l*re?s.1
NIOW YuHK, November I t.?The re
moval of class barrier to the stork
exchange, which in the past has been
considered rather as tin exclusive
club with a limited membership, was
emphasized to-day through the an
nouncement that a telephone clerk for
a Broadway brokerage llrm is to be
advanced to full membership on the
board, as soon as arrangements for the
purchase of the scat have been com
pleted.
This is the second instance in two
weeks of a uniformed employee of the
exchange having become a full mem
ber. <?tie reason ascribed for the pro
motion of employees, is the heavy bus
ine?s done in securities. Messengers
and telephone clerks of long ex
perience at once become assets to
their firms, without a period of "break
ing in."
FILES 210.OOO-WORD BRIEF
John Armstrong < linloner Attack*
I'roerrilliiKN In Nrw ^ ork In Which
He \\ iim Pronounced Innnni*.
I I'v .\ s.?r>. inte.1 1
WASII IN< ;T< ?N, November IS. A ^
attorney for himself, "pro se." John
Armstrong Chaloner, of Merry Mills,
\ a., author of "Who's Looney Now,'*
to-dav tiled in the Supreme Court a
bulkv brief of 210.000 words attacking
proceedings in New York in which he
was pronounced insane years ago.
Chalonej' is appealing in proceed
ings hroucht against Thomas T. Sher
man. trustee of his estate. Chalonet
wants possession of certain property.
The case i.s set for argument in He
cetnber.
Chaloner in his brief attacks the New
York insanity proceedings as void for
"fraud and trickery in luring" him to
New ^ ork. where he was placed in
Bloomingdnle Insane Asylum. Fraud
and trickery of the medical examiners
also were alleged in what Chaloner
termed nineteen' points of law de
lineated in great detail in his brief.
BRITISH LAUD DEAD ENEMY
Member* of Klylng Corp* Send Wrcntli
and I,otter* in Memory of
Captain II or Ike.
KKIU.IN, November II (wireless via
Say vi lie >.?A British tribute to the
noted Cerman aviator. Captain Roelke,
who was killed recently in an air bat
tle. after hating shot to earth forty
enemy machines, is reported to-day fu
tile Tratisocean News Hnreau.
"A British flyer dropped a package
over our lines with two letters ad
dressed. 'In Memory of Captain Boelke.
<?ur Brave and Chivalrous Adversary,'"
says the news bureau's statement.
"The letters were signed 'The Boyal
British Flying Corps.' One said:
"'To the Oflicers of the Cerman Kly
ing Corps: We hope that you will find
this wreath, and are sorry that it comes
so late. Weather impeded us, and we
could not send it earlier. With Cap
tain Boelke's parents we mourn. We
all recognize his bravery."
"The wreath and both letters were
sent to Captain Boelke's parents."
MRS. FLAGLER TO BUILD
Takes 'I'ltle to (<ronnil in l-'n?ltlo-iahlr
Itesldeiitlnl Section on I pper
I ?' I ff 111 Avenue.
'"V AsMorlateil Press. 1
NKW YOIIK, November 14.?Mrs.
Henry M. Flagler, widow of the rail
road magnate, has taken title to
ground on upper Fifth Avenue, valued
at f 1.000,00(1. The site is in the fash
ionable residential section, and it i.s
understood that Mrs. Flagler will build
a mansion on it and make, this city
her home. Mrs. Flagler, who Is re
puted to be worth between JfiO.OOO.OOO
and 570.000.000, is to be married to
morrow to Judge Robert Worth Bing
ham, of Loulsvillo, Ky.
Confers With Democratic Lead
ers Regarding Congres
sional Election.
?? ^
DOREMUS STILL OPTIMISTIC
G. O. P. Chairman Insists Repub
licans Will Dictate Its
Organization.
I By
W ASM I N i ? T <? N. November I 1- ?
Champ Clark, Speaker of the House,
reached Washington to-day, con
ferred with Democratic leaders regard
ing the congressional election, which,
according to tit*"* latest unofficial re
turns, leave* 1-ontrol ..f the next House
in doubt. The Speaker lir.st conferred
with KeprcsentatIve Doremus, of Michi
uan. chairman of the I >emocrat>?? ' on
gressional Committee, who predicted,
despite unofficial returns indicating the
e]e.fc|on of five more Republicans tlian
Democrats. that the final canvass would
give the Democrats control, and that
the Speaker would he re-elected
(>n the other hand. Representative
Woods, of Iowa, chairman of tlic lte
publican < "otigressionnl Committee. was
insisting that complete returns would
show Republican gains instead of
losses, and that Republicans would dic
tate the organization of the House.
Representative Doremus claimed
early in the day at the White House
that 212 Democrats and only -11 Re
publicans surely have l?e<-n elect. <1. and
that there were nine doubtful districts.
During the day. however, there were
no changes in the unofficial results
now indicating the election of "1< Re
publicans. "1- Democrats, two Progres
sives. one progressive-Protectionist,
one independent on? Socialist and one
Prohibitionist
i:\i'K(TS id'h ti i.m. mrri iin"
to iti:\ kihk kf.m i.ts
Representative Doremus. in his state
ment of doubtful districts at an in
formal conference of party leaders,
claimed that official returns would re
verse the result and show the election
of W. O. Martin, Democrat, over W . P.
Martin, Progressive-Protectionist, in
Louisiana. /.ebulon Weaver. Democrat,
over James J. Rritt. Republican, in
North Carolina: Thomas Scully. Demo
crat, over Robert Carson. Republican,
in New Jersey; Samuel Beackes, Demo
crat. over Mark R Bacon, Republican,
in Michigan. T. J. Steele. Democrat,
over J. C. Scott. Republican, in Iowa,
and M. Clyde Kelly, Progressive, over
William 11 f'olcman. Republican, in
Pennsylx anui.
In addition. Mr. Doremus insisted
that Clyde H Tavenner. Fourteenth
Illinois; Harry B. Mitchell. Montana,
at larce, and Thomas *>. Patten, Kigh
teenth New Vork. all apparently de
feated by Republicans, had excellent
chances of ultimate success. 11*- as
serted that despite reports of the elec
tion of Miss Jeannette Rankin. Re
publican. in Montana by a majority or
4(n>. that Harry B. Mitchell had won by
a majority of 10,000. This informa
tion. he said, had come from several
sources.
To-night, however. Mr. Doremus re
ceived a message from the Democratic
candidate conceding the election of
Miss Rankin by a safe majority, ami
abandoned his claim for the Montana
district.
Unofficial returns in disputed dis
tricts show the election of W. P. Mar
tin. Louisiana, by !'l votes; Kritt. North
Carolina, b> 13; Carson, New Jersey,
hv ll; P.aeon. Michigan, by loo; Scott.
Iowa, bv 7"; Coleman. Pennsylvania, by
20; Francis. Kighteenth New Vork, by
2.?;.*>?>. and Uraham, Fourteenth Illinois,
by I ..">29.
A VMtl'Nt'KJIKMT OK fONTEST
IN MAllVI.AMt IS ?.\l)i:
Republican leaders arc claiming that
final results will show the election of
A. .1. Harchfeld. Republican, over fluy
K. Campbell, Democrat, in the Thirty
third Pennsylvania District, and Robert
F. Duer. Republican, over Jesse D.
Price. Democrat, in the First District
of Maryland. Announcement of a con
test in the Maryland district was made
to-day. In the Thirty-second Pennsyl
vania District, on the official count to
day, Campbell. Democrat, had made a
net gain ??f fourteen Votes in two
Pittsburgh wards.
Speaker Clark, at the close of the
.^inference, remarked that the situation
A'as "very interesting."
"The only thing to be done." said the
Speaker, "is to watch the official count
In all the districts and wait for the
final results. Three times in the his
tory of the government there have been
prolonged contests over the election of
.i Speaker. Twice it look three months
and once it required two months and
a half to elect the Speaker. The tirst
long fight Was in ISM. when Howell
Cobb, of Georgia, was elected Speaker,
after a tight lasting more than two
months, during which no party could
get a majority. The tights which lasted
three months ended in the electior
governor Pennington, of New Jersey.
In 1 Mio, and C.eneral Banks, of Massa
chusetts, in isr.?,"
CAPTAIN BEACH FACES TRIAL
Wan In t'harge of the Memplil* When
Wrecked by Hurricane on Snn
Dominican Beef.
i nv Associated Press. I
WASHINGTON. November 14.?Trial
by court-martial of Captain Kdward 1~
Beach, of the armored cruiser Mem
phis, wrecked in a hurricane on a Sail
Dominican reef several months ago
with the loss of many lives, was or
dered to-day by the Navy Depart
ment.
Secretary Daniels said the Memphis
would not lie salvaged, since the work
would cost about J3.000.000, and the
Memphis was an obsolete type of wor
ship. ,
MEASURE DESIGNED
TO SHORTEN WAR
^ British Government Defends Po
sition on Black List as Just
and Founded on Law.
I
REPLIES TO U. S. PROTEST
Leaves Open the Door for Fur
ther Negotiation. Which Is
Expected to Follow.
f R v A - *<c iii tc! pre -> |
WA.-ll l.\"< .V?i\ r ml,or II. -The
British reply to the 1 t ?? -1 American
nolo protesting agnin-t t li-- trade black
list, made public to-night t>> the State
l>epa I tment. denies that rights of neu
j tral t rad>> i .v under iut ?-inational law
have l.orii ruthlessly canceled. defines
t ho black-list measui o as a niunicipal
regulation, plainly < oiicernluc only the
liritish government and Mriti.sh cit
izens, arid contend- that it is designed
to shorten tin* war
The note fail- to moot the Ameri
can detnand that the mimes of Ameri
can firms ho stricken from tin- black
list, lnjt attempts to convince the State
department that the Itritish position
i.s Just and founded on law It loaves
open the door Tor further negotiation,
which is expected to follow.
The note was subscribed b> Viscount
Grey, the Itritish Korci?!i Minister, and
was addressed to and transmitted by
Walter Mines I'age. the American am
bassador at I.ondon.
A part which attracted much official
notice dealt with the subje. t of peace,
based on the theory thai one Ameri
can coittenlion had been that there
exists no military necessity for the
black list; that it Is unnecessary for
j t he allies to prejudice neutral com.
j ttierce. and that nothing which happens
I in distant neutral countries; can influ-!
erno the result of the great conflict.
I.OVt; AM) RITTKIt
vrnt t.t.i.i; i.n> MiivMi
"If that really were the position."
the note says, "it i.s possible that the
measures taken by His Majesty"* gov
ernment might be described as uncalled
for. but it is not. We may well wish
that u were so. liven though the
military situation of the allies has
ereatlv Improved, there is still a long
and bitter struggle in front of them,
ami one which, in justice to the prin
ciples for which they are righting. im
poses upon them the duty of employ
ing every opportunity and every meas
ure which they can legitimately uise
to overcome their opponents.
'id'tte observation which is very Com
monly heard is that certain belligerent
aits, oxen though lawful, are too petty
to hav? any influence in a struggle of
such magnitude. It is. I know, difficult
for those who have no immediate con
tact with war to realize with what
painful anxiety men and women in
this country must regari even the
; smallest acts w hich tend to increase.
[ if only by a hair's breadth, the clanger*
in which their- relatives and friends
daily stand, or to prolong, if only by
.t minute, the period during which they
are to l?e exposed to such perils.
"Whatever inconvenience may ho
caused to neutral nations by the exer
cise of belligerent acts, it is not to he
compared for an instant with the suf
fering and loss occasioned to mankind
by the prolongation of the war even
for a week."
In its- argument the note points out
that German business houses through
out the world have furthered the cause
of Germany in the war. and have been
active agents "for the dissentinat ion
ot Gorman political and social influence
ami for the purposes of espionage."
i t m:i> as iusks ok si imm.y
KOH <; Kit MAN < III ISKIIS
"In some cases." continues the note,
"they have even been used as bases
of supply for German cruisers, and in
other cases organizers and paymasters
of miscreants employed to destroy by
f?ml means factories engaged in mak
ing. or ships engaged in carrying, sup
plies required by the altie.s. Such
operations have been carried out in
the territory even of the l'nited States,
and I am bound to observe, what I do
not think will be denied, that no
adequate action yet has been taken by
the government of the l'nited States
to suppress breaches of neutrality of
this particular criminal kind, which 1
know that they are the lirst to dis
countenance and deplore.
"In the face of enemy activities of
this nature, it was essential for His
Majesty's government to take steps
that should at least deprive interests
so strongly hostile, of the facilities and
advantages of unrestricted trading
with itritish subjects. The public
opinion of this country would not have
tolerated the prolongation of the war
by the continued liberty of Mritish
i subjects to trade with and so cnVicli
I the firms in foreign countries whose
wealth and influence were alike at the
Her vices of the enemy."
The note is based largely on the
ft.'on tin tied on Second i'age.)
J50 Scientific Recipes
A pprecln f lug (be universal de
mand for good food, properly mid
iitfraelii el v prepared. The TIiiicm
DKpafcli offers It* readers on ex
ceptionally useful booklet contain
ing I .Hi recipe* by I he highest scien
tific authorities.
l-:?er> Iioiisimi Ife Mill lie glitd lo
Inn r this h'ink and preserve It (or
reference.
These reel pes include n wide inri
ct.v of MiniccM, soups, siilad dressings,
salads, desserts, etc., selected from
the Investigations of the Itesenreh
l.uhorutory of the National ( aliners'
Association. They will help any wo
man to keep herself posted on the
latest scientific methods of prepnr
iog a --cent stamp for postage, tvilli
You enn secure them free by send
ing a --cont stump for paslnge, with
your nnuie mid address, to
Till-; lilt imox l> TntMS-DISI'ATCIt
IM'OIIM.MIOX III ItKAl ,
\\ nsliingtoii, I).
Railroad Managers
Will Fight Adamson
Law to End in Courts
Brotherhood Chiefs Believe
They May Safely Rest
7 heir Case With
President.
I By AsKorlHtcd Prew I
.VICW YOftK. November tl -The in- I
;
terrupted conference between represen- |
tatives of the nation's railways and !
their tOO,000 brotherhood employees. |
lookitip toward .111 adjustment of their 1
differences on the interpretation of the
Adamson eight-hour law, was not re
sumed here to-day. instead, tli?? rail
way managers announced their purpose
of fighting the law to the cud In tin
courts, while the brotherhood chiefs j
who remained in the city left for their
homes, professing to believe that they
may safelj test their case with I'resi- j
<lent Wilson.
Roth sides admitted that they could j
not foretell the probable outcome of
the new controversy. The railroad
managers are certain they can estab
lish the unconstitutionality of the
Adamson law. while the brotherhood
leaders are equally sure that the law
will be upheld by the courts and en
forced in letter and spirit.
The attitude of the railways was
summarized in a statement issued >?\
Kllsha l.ee at the close of an nll-d.-ry
meeting of the railroad representatives.
The statement read:
"We all agreed to lisht to the end.
The means to be employed wore fully
discussed. The consensus of opinion
was that it was necessary to tile suits
questioning the constitutionality of the
law in the Federal District Court in
which the affected railroads operate."
STONi: MM MA It I7.l-:s
mtOTHHii iioods' si in-;
Warren S. Stone, president of the
Brotherhood of I.ocomotlve Knglneers.
summarized the brotherhoods' side of
th^ case just before hoarding a train
for Cleveland. The other chiefs left
for their homes last night and this
morning.
.Mr. Stone said: "The situation is
closed, in so far as we are concerned.'
We are not at all alarmed. We know
what President Wilson Intended we
should have. We know the explanation
he made to our <>0H men in the While
House. We feel confident that if the
present law does not give the eight -
hour day. the President will give us
a law that will.
"We can't understand the attitude or
the railroad managers. They did not
tile their first suits until the day after
election, believing that Mr. Hughes
had been elected. Personally, I believe
they are either whistling to keep up
their courage, or they are trying to
scare the public into sympathizing
with them."
Mr. Stone then disclosed the proceed
ings at yesterday's secret conference
and the plan of action he said th
railroads outlined at the conference. !
SAIII oi.n St'll 131)t 1.K*?
WKHK TO IIK \\ II'KII Ot T '
"We asked for the conference," he
.aid, "to reach a working agreement
? ?n the operation of the new law They
told us they did not interpret it as '
meaning that the old schedules; pro- i
viding for >1 rate of pay based on the j
length of a run, were to !><? continued. ;
They said the old schedul es w ere tot
t.'O wiped out.
When they expected us to reach a
t< ntntlve agreement on this point, we
I'll'! them that it was impossible, m
vo w of the fact that our understand
ing of the |h\v provided for a retention
of existing schedules. The only dif
ferences. we contended, was what the
law specifically calls for? the substi-J
tution of tlie word 'eight' for the word
'ten' wherever it appears.
"We refused to discuss further this
question when they Informed us that
the suits they had filed would be per
mitted to stand during any negotia
tions we might enter Into. They ex
pected us, in other words, to argue
about something that they did not
concede to exist legally.
"We rejected their proposal to join
with them 111 an appeal to the Attor
neys Seneral. requesting his approval
of a plan to defer the operation of ih
law for thirty days, in order that a
decision on the suits might be obi
tallied before the law tvent Into ef
fect.
im.an i-'oii i:\ru iioa0
TO I'll,!', \ si it
"As we understand it. they plan to
have each of the 17.> railroad systems
involved ii|,. a suit 111 each of th< Fed
eral districts through which their
lines operate.
"They were surprised when inform
ed that we would not defend the suits,
although a chairman, selected by the
different brotherhoods in each State,
will be. named as defendant. We told
the railroad managers the suits were
a government mailer, and as such
would he properly defended by the
government We were informed that
'he suits would be Hied within ten
dn.\ s."
? The railroad managers will meet
ag:?mi to-niormw
EVANGELINE BOOTH BETTER
Commander of Solvation Army Ite
l??rtPil 11 * Well on Hood to
ltecovery.
I Bv A Haft elated I
XKW Y< >UK, November II. -After
an illness of several weeks, during
which "ceaseless prayer" was offered
for her in Salvation Army circles
throughout the country, Kvangel liie C.
I tooth, commander of the Salvation
Army in the United States, is reported
lo -day as well on the road to re
covery. It Is announced that she will
be able to resume work within a few
dii\ s.
:>
Attacks Will Come
to an Abrupt End
\K\\ \ Oil |\. Nmnnlirr I I. 'I'hr
10* riling 1*11*1 I o-dn j ?;?jhs
??AuMirnncf that there will be no
j ''rlsl* lirhvccn lirriiiiinf nnil
tlie 1 nllfil Stairs nicr method* of ( !
| mihmnrinr warfare litis been re
ceived In IhlM country, It wn*
| Iriirnril to-day. It niiiy lie *ald ii|inn
e * eellen t n ill li or It y thill one of the
tlr*t rennlt* of l'rr*ldcnl Wlhon'ii
re-election lina heen the ren II/.h t Ion
by the Ivnlnrr'n cincriimpnl Ihnt hi*
foreign 110II17 hiiN received the em
phatic liiiliirxeinent of n majority of
A merlon ii citizen*.
"The Merle* of attack* upon armed
n 'id unarmed merehnnt Hleiimer*.
Nome of them pn-isenKer ve**elw and
j olher* llylng the Amerlenu Hiik, in
*e\ eral cn*e* w ithout any ivarnliiK
being giv en, w hich began nevernl
week* before election day. will come
to nn ahrii|tt end."
CSLIFOflNlll SURPRISED
JT HUMORS FROM EAST
I'M ml No (iron iid for Report That
< onshlerablc Krror in Counting
\ (tics Has IJeen Discovered.
K.XI'F.CT .NO MATIOHIAIj CH.\.\<iK
Only truest ion of Interest Is Whether
Highest Vote for Republican Klec
tor Is <>reatcr Than Lowest Vote
for Democratic Klector.
( Mv Assortatoil I'ro.vs |
SAN I- IIA N<'ISt '? 1, November 14.
Whether the highest vote for a Re
publican elector in California was
greater than tiio lowest vote for a
I "cmooiiit ic elector was about the only
question of interest to California poli
ticians to-night. If ibis should prove
to be tbe case, the State's delegation
In the electoral college may be split
The Republicans admittedly unearthed
nothing In the course of the day to
admit for or against such a project.
Sidney Van W.vck, Jr., chairman of
the |>cniocratic Campaign Committee,
worked all day bringing in reports
1 roin little counties t'-.e mountains
where the county clerks had finished
their count, and also succeeded in got
iing one or 1 wo fair-sized counties.
His total for twenty counties showed
that the totals fur the lowest Demo
cratic elector in each county added
votes more than the totals for the
highest Republican elector in the same
counties. If the lowest Democratic
totals are Anally ahead of the highest
, Repu bliean totals, a solid delegation in
j the electoral college is assured. It
; the highest Republican totals exceed
| the lowest Democratic totals, this will
not necessarily Indicate that any Re
publican elector wins, because the low
est Democrat and the highest Republi
can are not the same in all counties.
Republicans and Democrats alike
manifested surprise at rumors, trace
able mi all cases to the Kast. that a
considerable error had been found
somewhere in the Stale In counting the
votes.
"The mistake as reported Would
have to be in San Francisco. Almeda
or I,os Angeles County," said .Mr. Van
Wyck. "It is in none of them, and, so
far as we have been able to learn, it
does not exist. The final count will
show no material change."
\ i:t i; mn or mo \ ??ti:s
koh in t;in:s i\ 1 .os ancki.ks
I.OS AMIRI.KS. 1 'A I... November It.
?A net gain of 190 votes was made by
i harles K Mughes to-day in the first
day's ollicial count of the presidential
vote cast Tuesday. Twenty-two errors,
were discovered by the board of su
|M*rv isors.
111 <;ni:s im.i it \i.itv not \ts
TO I .OSS |\ >IIN \|.;so|'A
f Mv Assorial**<! |*i'o>?. |
SI I'AI I,. MIXN . November 1 I j
The Hughes plurality. 011 a rechecking
\otes throughout Minnesota,
mounted lute this afternoon to t.nss.
I he totals, including Hennepin Coun
ty s latest ligures, showing a decided
gain for Hughes, were; Wilson, 178,
8 SO; Hughes, 179.fi 17.
IDAHO A I.SO iiu DIVIIli:
'?'UK ioi.ki"roii \ 1, \ oti-: j
I II* ANMM-lnted I
HOISK. IDAHO, November It Re
? ?ause .lames 1*3. I'unock. one of the
four Demo, rati.: presidential electors
chosen in Idaho, also was a candidate
for the State Legislature from ?'lister
' 'ounty and was elected. Idaho's elec
toral vote, in.-tcad of being four for
President Wilson, is likely to stand
three for Wilson and one for Hughes,
it was reported here to-day. The law
disqualified any presidential elector
xv ho is a I ho the holder of a State posi
tion. and I'incock's eligibility probably
Will be tested, political loaders here
s;,v ir Is disqualified, the highest
Republican elector may cast his vote.
W 11,SON MAKK.H t;\l\ <>I-* in in
l''l\K MOW >1 I0\ ICO ( ot NTIK.N
'? Mv Axxoeiated Press |
SANTA KK, X. M.. Xoven her 14. -
I 'resident Wilson made a net gain of
forty votes over Charles 10. Hughes in
ollicial returns from live x.w Mexico
counties, reported to tlie Secretary of
State to-day. The unofficial tabula
tion. including the ollicial count in five
counties to-night, shows *> 10 out of the
?i.'IS precincts in the Slate have been
heard from. The count stands: Hughes.
Wilson, 31,SIS.
PRESIDENT BLAMES
MIDDLEMEN FOR
HIGH COST DF FOOD
Urges Farmers of National
Grange to Increase
Their Output.
WANTS CROPS SO BIG THAT
SUPPLY WILL BE SUFFICIENT
Not Do to Be Niggardly With
Rest of World. He Says, in
Respect of Its Food.
NO RIOIKR i:\CK TO KLKCTION
Ooes Not Mention Remit Petitions
Asking Him to Declare Km
bargo <111 Grain. ?
! Hv AsxuclitIed I'ro.-.-.l
XV ASH I NO TON, November 11.? Pres
ident Wilson blamed middlemen for
the high cost of foodstuffs here to
night in a speech welcoming to Wash -
inglon the convention of the National
Orange, the lirst formal speech he has
delivered since the election.
L'rging that farmers should increase
their output, the President said:
"XVe ought to raise such big crops
that cir. nmstnn. es like the present
can never recur when men can make.
as if the supply was so short that the
middleman could charge for it what
he pleased. It will not do to he nig
crardly with the rest of the world in
respect in its food supply."
Pile President did not mention re
cent petitions to him to declare an
embargo on exportation of foodcttufTs
from the l'nited States to the rest of
the world, and did not refer, even In
directly, to the outcome of die pres
idential election. His address was in
terrupted frequently by applause from
1 he farmers attending the fiftieth an
nual celebration of the founding of tho
grange.
"It seems to me," said the Presi
dent, "that some of the most interest
ing problems of our life and of the life
of I he- world lie before us! problems
in connection with which the farmers
of the United Slates will piny a part
such as they have never played before.
I'll YSICA I. 1,1 KK OK NATION
DKl'KMdJNT I PON IWIOI
"It Roea without saying that the
physical life of the natio.. ha.s always
depended upon (he farm. It Roea with
out saying, also, that to a large ex
tent the physical life of the world
has drawn its sustenance troin the
great areas of farm land in the l'nited
States. We have sent food to all parts
of the world, and the American farm
er has contributed to the life of nil the
countries of the world. Rut you know
that, as our own population has in
creased. the proportion in which we
could help foreign countries as con
trasted with our own has decreased,
and there are problems that ar$ com
parable with the problems of states
manship lying ahead of the farmers of
the l'nited States.
"In the future we have got to bring
more of Hi,, area of the Pnited States
under cultivation than is under culti
vation now. We have Rot to increase
the product at every point where it
is susceptible of being increased.
?Mine of the things that has most
interested me about what has been
done recently by legislation for the.
benefit of the farmer is the question
why it was not done lone before. It is
astonishing that the assets, the valu
able. available assets, the visible as
sets of tile farm should not have been
available as a basis of credit in the
banks on the same terms as the as
sets of commercial undertakings and
manufacturing industry. t'attle are
just as visible and tangible as goods
in warehouses and goods on trains.
MOIIII.I7.KI> Si IKNT1KK
i i-: or woni.n
"We have liberated the credits of
the banks, and we have mobilized,
through the Depart meut of Agricul
ture. the scientific intelligence of the
world. With that combination, every
nation in the world ought to come to
us to learn how to raise big crops.
XX'e ought to raise such bin crops that
circumstances like the present can
never recur, when men can make iim
if the supply was so short that the
middleman could charge for it what
he phased. It will not do to he nig
gardly with the world in respect of
its food supply.
I i\ i sh t h a l .ill problems it* g o ve r ti -
in cut were displaced i,, as clear line*
of duty as this problem of government
in regard to how the farinci ought to
be treated is displayed. I wish, for
example, that foreign affairs were as
simple as agriculture. The great satis
faction a bout what you have to dis
cuss is that when, once your dutv is
i determined, we hav e u>>i a great force
of intelligence to go forward in the
line oi dutv.
' I he tiling that makes i f-oe coun
try vital is the Iirge number of peo
ple who gel I oRef lie.' to tin i 111 port a II t
! things without asklnr the leave o' the
government to do hern. The strikin :
thing about a gr : country ii}o- i,o?
l'nited States is :!: t' ?i- govern
ment neglected every thing th> [ ?;j.pb?
would do it; Hint you do not he/kou
to the people of the l'nited States they
command you to go on. and tilings that
are neglected they have got plent.v of
brains to get together and do for them
selves."
PUKSIOKNT IIA1 t.o
ON \VKVI'KII N Tllir
President Wilson is expected to make
a tour of the West .is soon as lie can
spare time for the trip. TeI?>trains are
beginning: to reach him urging that he
visit the section of the country "which
went so gloriouslv foi you." and
\\ estern men in Washington do not
see how he can decline the Invitations,
in view of tho loyalty of the XVeal to
n 3
. > .
