THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probibly fair to-day and to-morrow;
somewhat colder; fresh winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 55; lowest, 34.
Detailed weather, null and marine reports on pace 13.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 76.
4-
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1916. coPyrtPht. mt, m th, sm pnnung ani putu,Mn8 a,ocmioh.
ONE CENT
la Oreater New Tnrk, I ritsrnhere
Jersey Clljr and Newark. ) TWO t'KNT".
ROADS TO BE61NiLrL,iH0ADLEYS TAKEN M",
5,000 SUITS TO
KILL 8JR. LAW
Wholesale Legal Actions
Mill lto in Courts With
in Ten Days.
I X IONS ARK TALKING
1M.MKDIATE STRIKE
Wal Noil I of "Big Four" Men
My Follow Filing of
l'aners.
BltOTHKR HOODS PI T
FK5HT IT TO WILSON
President Is Expected to
Avert Trouble, at Hearing
in Washington.
lUilroad manngcrs decided yester
day to light the Uig Four brotherhoods
In nit all d.iy conference In the (Irnnd
L ntfil station they debated whether
tt.ev would Me .t limited herles of In
junction artlons or whether they would
inver the whole railroad territory of
the I nltcd Sttitca with 5,000 suits. The
tcnsensus of opinion was In favor of)
whnlcalp legal action to defeat the ,
Admson eight hour law. Within ten ,
days the uises are expected to be in
the 10 jits.
Conf 1 unted with this prospect the
tt. tinmen's brotherhoods are bent on
luick reprisal. Tills retaliation may
be in the form of a Mrlke following
cose upon the lllnC of the suits. A,
the sltuntlon appeared yesterday the
brotherhoods, felt the attempts to de- , questing theni to register for the sen- noy nan neen promoter ana Presi
prhc them of an eight hour tray on n' 18 Hurling slip. A look at the Jf"? l?ijatlit tiriKlmw I
would lead the roads Into the breaking , WZZl SwVWm nl ' HoadUy 'salS y.chi
of existing agreements. Therefore the 1
Hlg Four would have to avail Itself
Immediately of Its strongest weapon
a walkout.
The brotherhoods are not going to con-
test the suits the loads will Institute,
They will not send counsel into court to !
srgue for the constitutionality of the
e,ht hour law. They look to the Judicial
blanch of the (Jovernment to fight Its
battles. The duty logically devolves
upon the Attorney-General, they contend. .
lsu Tot All Faith In Wilson.
i-....i,,. .1,. i., 1.-
lr .to fmn th. LoU on the ground
o!r,m,sBtV
. petid upon President S llson to have
inieil another act which will withstand
... ... -
assaults of hostile counsel. Warren
S Stone, chief of the engineers' brother
roi..l, vut on record for this yesterday.
Uter the national conference yester
il i;r.h:t Lee, chairman of the man- j
er. suld no plan, had been made to 1
Mipwi negotiations with the "Big Kour."
M.nvever. although he (ltd not express,
1 e hope In so many words, the npeiators
si,. tleundlng much on a coincidence. I
Mmy of them will come In contact with
he brotherhood chiefs at next week's
rarlngs before the Newlauds Senatorial
committee.
dded belief in a solution of the dlffl
ru ty comes through the expectation of
t ie motherhood chiefs that President
t I'on will call them Into conference.
Th.it he will exercise hli Kxecutlve func
Mors iix he did before Is the belief on
I Hilt s iliw. Perhaps the entire trouble
be smoothed out through his Inter
tentioii, If he falls to bilnt alwut a
eiimprnmlse the warfare will date from
conclusion of the Newlands commit
tee healings.
Political F.ipedleiicy Seen.
tue moie yesterday the element of
Mlit eal expediency entered Into the
'ilfe It was pointed out on behalf of
"v National Conference Committee that
' last communication with tho
hi dherhood chiefs was dated September
1 This .made no mention of n date
hfier flection for the discussion of the
.vd.nnsnn law's operation.
The "Hlg Kour," as the correspond
r e shows, made no efforts to get In
tui h with the managers again until
Nr.vpiuber 9, two daya after election,
T Hen they said their representatives
t'lUld rotifer with the committee at the
ni'ftlng of November 13.
Not until Charles K. Hughes gave It as
his judicial opinion In his speeches in the
middle West that the eight hour law- Is
unconstitutional did the railroads decide
'n bring their Injunction suits, contend
"Ije brotherhood men. They Insist that
his opinion aa a former member of the
''tilted States Supreme Court was the
factor on which the contemplated acttoni
re predicated,
The conference committee held morn
ing and afternoon sesslona yesterday.
Prom what was learned afterward there
iai no talk of barkdown, even In the
J e of the "Big Four's" Insistence on the
Vithdrswal of tha Injunction suits. The
M1 was all of war and the strategic
Means to carry It to a successful conclu
sion. Question of Brlufflnft Sails.
"Wo have not yet come to a conclu
sion." said Mr. Lee last evening, "as to
whether It will be better to bring suits In
'ertaln districts, or whether we will file
I every Judicial district of the country,
We have made no plans for another talk
th the brotherhood chiefs. It Is possi
ble that w will meet each other again In
in Informal way at the hearings next
eek. but that Is not n matter of de
'gti "
There will be another meeting of the
r.t Irf'ad managers' committee, to-day
".d the proceedings are likely lo string
long for thn remainder of the week.
'! II. Sines, vice-president of the
Itrtitherhooil of locomotive Knglneers,
la' nigh' discussed thn possibility Of nr.
1 '1' by the "Hlg Four" before January
1 when the Adamson law becomes opera
t e
if the roads bring their Injunction
una, of course we will ablda by tha de-
Continued on 0tco4 !?.
FEDERAL ft. 1?. CONTROL
Great Conflict In Congress
This Winter Indicated
at Convention.
Wasimnotov, Nov. 14. One of the
most Interesting struggles In the his
tory of thn country between the advo
cates of Stale right! Bnd the proponents
of Federal control of railroads wii fore
shadowed to-day at the beginning of the
convention or tne .National Association
of State Hallway Commissioner which !
started Its annual session In the Audi
ence room of the Interstate Commerce
Commission,
That the Rtate Commissioners, who
sec their liowers) Imperilled by the crow
ing demand for federnllsatlon of lalS-l
road control, nre going to Congress this
winter In opposition to the plan of the
railroads for Federal Incorporation nnd
for Federnl control of transportation
was apparent ut the first dav's session
of the convention.
Itohert 11. Pientls of Virginia led the
fight for the preservation of Stnte con
trol over putely intrastate transporta'
Hon.
He referred to the activity of the
raltto.vls In the Interests of federaliza
tion of control He pointed especially
to the recent speech In Washington of
Frank Trumbull of the Chesapeake and
Ohio before the railway executives ad
visory council. Commissioner Prentls
advocated opposition by the State Com
missioners to the enlargement of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and
especially the Federal Incorporation of
railroads.
SNOWSTORM FALLS
OUTSIDE OF CITY
t'p-State Quilted With Wliite
Much Colder, To-day's
Forecast.
The snap has been extracted from the
cold wave that was scheduled to hit
this coast to-dav. preceded, It was pres.-
"y 14 ' siKiwiau. me
did not get any
ttritrr thjitl AlnaflV.
but north nnd west of that point a big
section of the continent was uullted with
white, and most of New Kngland was
out sledding or sleighing. Moutpeller
The Street CleanlnB Departtnent. ba-
....i!tiL. i 1
ZJXmZZ d ,"caU eJ
for a large force of snow shovellers, re- ,
,, t0 h. ..-. local
prophet took back his forecast of "light 1 1-1 fe Inauiance Compnny libelled the'
tain, probably turning to snow flurries acht t- collect the n.000 Mrs. lloadley
In the nfterneon." but he said positively owed on the old deficiency Judgment,
last night that his prediction of "much t ....... ..
colder" for this day held good. rinr of ft Ill IHHered. I
The wind last night, after liavlniM
An order was obtained from the Su-
shifted to northwest. sr,,nt some time , ,irrnlc ,-ulltt for Mrs . Ho.tdley to be ex-
blowing gently out of the noitheasl. lin,ned rekardlnB her ownership of the 1
The temperature fluctuated like the de-1 V1)1.,, sl. ,,,,, ot ,,., T1(. ,, 0c-
clslon of a forecaster contemplating tt,l,(.r 1 an order was obtained fiom Jus-
mixed neither conditions In several ,re ,,.. uiderlng Mrs. Hoadley to ap-1
parts of the country At It P M. thipear nm, fUow cause why sin- k,u,I !
mercury iihii uroppeo 10 ,n, anti 11 was
'Bd ,,l P'Kht cloud reader In the
W ,, t',m" ","ll1lnK ,lMl w"11'' ,."r prc I
diction of a teuirature of :t might not
rninitr.,1 niu iii..rpiirv ui.iiT.i wtirni,- '
be fulfilled, the mercury would surely
go down in thn twenties. This day will
be fair am! ptob.ihl) "somewhat colder,'1
Wjshliuton prophesied.
The West India cyclone was over
the Florida peninsula last night. It may
not be felt hereabout for several tl.its.
CARROLL G. GALT A SUICIDE.
Young Southerner if (junil Family
NunllimM Pulson.
WASiitNOTov, Nov 14.- Carroll firay
son (lalt, 2T jears old, a nephew of the
late Norman Gait, first husband of Mrs.
Woodrow Wilson, died at the Kmergency
Hospital to-day shortly after taking a
quantity of bichloride of mercury. The
coroner issued a certificate of rulelde.
The young man appeared In a down-1
town omce uuiitiuia tins muming, w nere
he aroused some susilclon by exhibiting
a botile labelled poison. He then left
the building and wandering Into a si
loon suggested to the proprietor that
he call an ambulance.
"I have taken poison," he said by way
of explanation.
Thn .mihntnnrc was cllcd and the
,.. n,nn. u.in conscious, was rushed
I , ,MC hospital, and his mother, who re-
sides In Chevy cnase. was, suminoneu.
She did not arrive before, his death,
thirty minutes later.
Friends of Gait say he had been
drinking freely and that his wife filed
suit for divorce last October.
3 SHOT IN RIVALRY FOR GIRL.
suitor Kills Hlrnl, Wounds Two
Others, One Her Itelatlve.
Three Italians were passing 11 saloon
at it Chrystle stret early this morning
when a man emerged and fired upon
them with a revolver, (lluseppe Calrl
nlo, i", of 2 Forsyth street, was shot
ii the. mouth nnd back and died soon
after at iVmverneur Hoapltal. (lluseppe
Caldero, 23, of 74 Kiuriage street, was
shot In the back, and rianno Leonardo,
104 Hester street, In the left shoulder.
Caldero named to the police the man
said to have done the shooting, Uetec
lives of the First Branch Hureau are
hunting Salvatore Angelros of 162 For
syth street
The shooting, Caldero says, was the
outgrowth of rivalry for the hand of his
sister-in-law, Josephine Vnrnlno, of SH
Chrystle street, between Catrlnlo, who
was killed, and the man who did the
shooting.
U. S. MAY BUILD OWN SHIPS.
Navy Department Considering Cur-
rlliK "nl " nulldlng Prnurn niiiir,
WasHINOton, Nov. 14. In connection
with the pending nwards to successful
bidders on the first ships In the new
naval building programme, It Is said the
Navy Department may reek un mldl-
. M,.-t.,lr.n tn ntl!n ntll-1 -.nt-ilu
.n'nitn! shin building, and proceed!
with the construction of tlie programme
Itself If a ant sfnrtory agreement tan.'
... ..,i,.,i .Hh nrlvata bidders. Tb.
department already has $6,000,000 avail
able for the purpose
The department has had under con.
slderatlon the construelltm of nt least
ten Blips) at the Philadelphia Navy Void.
Because It Is near a centre of labor utid
the structural steel district, that yard
might become the navy's greatest hulld
Ing yard ahould the Oovernment under
takY a wboUtU coMtructloa campaign.
CONTEMPT CHARGE
Financier nnd His Wife Fared
Cells in Ludlow Jail by
Court's Order.
AIMIKSTKI) IX A HOTKIi
-t 1,1,, 11 .
-'lKllllglll
Conference With
justice Cohulan firings Free
dom of Mrs. lloadley.
After having eluded the authorities for
six weeks while remalnltiK
K Lere
II. lloadley .
town Mr. anil Mrs. Joseph
mediately put them under arrest.
Tho anest maiks another episode In
i,,r. r ., .r,i...i t,,,..,e. nr the ,
the s,ry ,if the tangled tlnances of the,
'J:A"l .M.f,'1 e'. Vrrn in ",?.c.0.ur,"J!.1
nnnnciHi niigaiiiii uo.e is or limes, anu
wn. r.n..i..i i.. i.n 1 1 t. nun . .
... .......... ... ..v . . - ' . I
turtle ila'rw w w.VhVrnisbV.r'
considerable power In Wall Street.
.Mrs. lloadley was arrested llret and
t.e arrest ot her IZu ml followed sn j
after. As soon as his arrest was made
lloadley got Into communication with
tils lawyers, a prominent banker and
Justice Cotialan. Tho last named went
to the MctroH)liUn Club, where he
awaited the arrival of the banker. Ar
I rnnacmenta were muds to furnish an
j amount of money sufficient to obtain the
release of Mrs. lloadley and ho was urn
chanted fiom custudy shortly after .mbl
night on Justice Cohalau's order, lload
ley ut that time was still In custody.
Warrant Call for Cells.
The warrants of -o:i mltment which
were served called for their Incsrcera-'
Hon In l.udlow street Jail. Tho orders
of arrest were Issued because of legal
complications due In .1 mortgage of ,
1104, 00a on the lloadley ho.ix-, IS Bast
Klghty-econd street, which -was held
by the Mutual Life liismance Company,
on which all but $19,000 had Wen col
lected by foreclosure proceedings pre-
, - ,.-.. r, .,, Tll, .!.
"
showed that Mrs. lloadley was the
ow ner, and a deficiency Judgment for tha
lls.flOO was obtained against her.
Mrs. lloadley made a number of pay
ments against this utjll there remained
""' u "V" ' " """"'r
In lpenl rntiinclpnniit arowlnr out
of the attempt- f the receiver o, the
International i'ower Company, of which
was not his, but his wife's, so the Mutual
iioatiiev saiti ilia aiui I
, adjudged In contempt of couit.
T,9 also wus Ignoied, She was held
then to be In contempt of court and was
(ln,d IS.Ouu. the amount of the Judg-
... i .- I
inent, An tinier that she be committed
to Ludlow stieet Jail until the I'J.OtiU
was paid was given to the Sheriff
Since then Sheriff Smith's deputies
have been having a busy time of It.
They knew the lloadleys were not In
their home In ltc, and finally decided
to concentrate on the town house A
constant watch 1111 IIiIh whs kept. Last
Suturduy a deputy managed to induce a
setvunt to nix-n the door a few Inches.
The deputy then shoved his foot in the
opening and then forced his body
through. Il searched the house, but the
ll(ittlles had lliiwii, He decided that
they had scaled several back fences anil
hid reached either Fifth or M.idUou ave
nue In this way, thereby attaining their
freedom.
Tlie warrant for lloadley was Issued
by .1 list Iff Tieiney because of Hundley's
failure to appear in supplementary pro-
ic edings
ROBBER HOLDS UP 5 ON TRAIN.
Hides Willi letlins lit P. ml of Mar,
Then Snys linod Mltltt."
Kansas Citv. Nov 14. As the Mis
sotnl P.ielfie'K flniaha-t.lueoln express
train No. 101 was leaving Leavenworth,
Kan., tu-nlght for Kansas city, Mo., a
masked rubber enteied the rear sleeping
car, leveled 11 pistol at the four passen
gers and the conductor, (' 11, Schmltt,
and obtained Inc.. The conductor gave
up tt0 more. The bandit then Informed
Ills victims that they might resume their
scats,
"I'll ride a piece with you," he said
When n passenger would shift Ilia posi
tion the robber's pistol would cover him.
When the train pulled Into Kansas City
the man wished his victims a laughing
"good night" and dlsappeated In the
datk maze of tracks nnd cars,
U. S. INQUIRY INTO FOOD RISE.
Federal Trade Commission liiprcta
to Arrange HrHrlngs.
Chic-aoo, Nov. 14 Increases In the
cost of food products are likely to be
the subject of an Investigation by the
Federal Trade Commission. Kdward N,
Hurley, chairman of the commission,
suld tn.duy:
"The high cost of the necessities of
life Is the most Important problem be.
fore the American people to-day, t be
lieve It Is within the province of the
trade commission to Investigate, and I
think It more than likely that we will
hold meetings, determine the reason for
the presl'tit high costs and apply a
remedy If one ran be found."
Mr, Hurley suld present coal prices
were suicidal, and charged roul oper
ators with wastefulness. Of the fiOO,.
oon.dOO tons of bituminous coal mined In
a year, he Hiibl, 3n,noo,0()0 were wasted,
of' which 20(1,000,1)01) tniild be saved,
EN0LAND FEELS THE PINCH.
Meatless lla, .No Cukes or Pastry
nnd Whole Wheat Bread.
';V , ,i ,
"Ming I ) th
Not 15 Wednesday. Ac-
ninrnlng iiewspipers Wnl-
t-r Ituniiman, piesiuent or the llu.tid
nf Tiade, will to-day present to Par
liament a measure providing llrst com
pulsoiy il'.' till oiikIi tho British Isles of
whnl" wheat lliur Insieatl of wiilto
flour, secnnil, a ban on all fancy cukes
and pastry, and third, tho Institution of
metitless duys on which neither shops
nor restaurants will tie allowed to Mil
meat.
were finally corralled last night. Deputy , 'am 1 nouiu juuge me veins nrasi troops 011 the Hgmme to-aay toon too Catdcd as certain to discourage, any more widespread calamities than any
SheilfTs. hem on serving contempt war- '''7' J;"" Jllul hM X Wrongly fortified village of Besiicourl- ,,,., toward peace parleys which Ger- I'fvlouH war. We are asking ourselves
"V -'A'""- V-.' ". . oVtyeuow ctu "Tile v' toM me'ai.0 I "T-Ance and consolidated .1. their m;lliv may wWl rf,ur'rcctrJ. """'V. eTtc'" T "nl
V''i.r. .'?' .". of an Ksklm.. who used In his gun! gains. The raptuie of Beaumont Hantel. "The Idea would seem to be tirev.Ucnt thU suffering to have been vain? After
cwuvie 111 too Hotel eineriiiliu itou iiii- i.,..i, ...... ... .... . ., ,..
I
UVbl mils Vlii I ilauisu
' Explorer Brings Hack Wonder
ful Stories of Northern
Canada. v
Christian trfden, the Norwegian ex
plorer nnd ethnologist, who has Jumped
from the snow htitu of the Ksklmos to
the Waldorf-Astoria "some contrast,"
he says brings bntk from the great
Canadian barren grounds northwest of I
nuuson Day native tales or vast gold
deposits nnd petroleum fields In unex
plored legions north of the Arctic circle.
"I did not sco the gold." he said.
"Native friends of mine told me about 1
It, but they didn't know It was gold. '
They were returning from a hunting trip
of 700 or &0O miles with SJtne specimen'"
for me, but their dogs died and they had
X advantage gained by their powerful sur-
dropped off In pieces, and from whatl'rise attack of yesterday, the British
in uiron- wnat 1 ucueve to ue gum su.
gold.'
.1 ,,. .,.,., ,
. . A.I ' . petroleum, Mr. 1
1 1- .,11 Mo
Lcden said.
isly to the"'
- ' "
smell of the oil. although they 'were c
(...........i ,,. , ,1,,--
" to otrong odors. hsklmos.
ne exill.llneil. never Ink n b.lth. He,
.to K''. nny Mra of ",e. ,tH'a"
V... fS. Ul't'0," 0,nfr ,nn" 10 1
" """u,u ""e luneiiine ia,.n
h; 'X,T wftV Hie" of
PArn ''frt;" VV"'! "i'h lte,Ln, .
Eskimos for three years, principally
to study the native music, whloh has
neither major nor minor.
DRY NEW YEAR EVE;
LOBSTER LANE SAD
Itiir Time Falls on Sunday nnd
Mayor Will Muzzle the
Restaurants.
One of New York's hfst little indoor
sports greeting the arrival of the New
Year with a Milute of shopping corks
will have to be abandoned this year, and
there Is deep gloom along Lobster Lane
c,b,rVte.,,aurant,''and
vhlch
ven the bright lights of the
dispel, tor New dear's eve this ear
falls on Sunday, and the exctie law pro
hibits the Issuance of licenses all night
or otherwise for the sale of liquor on
Sunday.
The excise law of the State requires
that liquor must not he sold between the
iiuuin ut uiimiiirii. mttuiuaj ttuu v a. ji. i
Monday. But one exception la nude to
this rule, and that Is In the case of
hotels. Here guests may he served with
intoxicating drlnki with their meals all
l"' M- ,s,ondla'- that
hour the Uw requires the "lid" to be
' oetct-
a6?f.' . 1 ,m. . ,., .
-' 't how this sauatloti w 111 turn out Is
P'ojh-matic.i'. 1 le MHor will mt Issue
' "censes for Sunday 1 hat means a
ur;v.. v "f." .''A1'' '.' "'" "u'
pd. however, that tho restninant men
may get together anil endeavor to have
fi.iturday night recognized as the ofllcUl
night of well-time for the New Year.
William II. Anderson, head of the
. ..,tt:i?i ,iitii lift iidii iiiiiillllCl t U uuv w
Antl-Saloun League, sent a letter jes- British otllcers, very Inferior fighting
terday to Mavnr Mltchel urging him material, The Herman higher command
not In giant any llienses for the sale j df pende.1 apparently on the supposedly
of liquor on Sunday, New Yeat's eve. ' Impregnable character of the old front
Mr, Anderson wiotn: uutl Its strongly fortified villages rather
"Last year, pursuant to the request of ( than on the stamina of tho troops. The
many citizens that ou refuse extended British oftlceis believe that the Hermans
license on New Year's eve, you did not j vvithdiew their best men for service else,
permit the sale of liquor all night, but Where on the British front, where the
approved applications for spetial licenses ww ,md shallower positions to which
allowing the sale for one hour after the 'the defenders have leen foned demand
2 o'clock hour, now permitted some of greater resisting power on the part of
the lestauMtits. The testimony seemed i tlio Infantry
general that condition wore Improved,' -The British losses were unusually
This year New Jeat.s eve falls on
Sunday, nnd we tespeotfully urge that
no extra time whatever be granted by
way of special permit. The present ex
cise Uw, which Is In no setlse n tem
perance measure, n-cognlzes that these
permits should not be granted either on
Sunday morning or the morning fol
lowing Sunday, wiih h would ncressarlly
Involve a violation of the Sunday re
strh tlon "
At City Hall yesterdty the belief was
general that no extra licenses this jear
would be granted.
TO SP.T.T. MADISON SQ. GARDEN,
. , , II W I.. .n.
AHrtinn . . ...... ..... -- . ....
closure Prttceetllims.
Arrangements were completed ester
day In sell Madison Square, Garden at
auction on Friday, December s, to
satisfy a Judgment In foreclosure held
by the New York Llfo Insurance Com
pany, obtained In a suit to recover
$2,300,000 loaned on first mortguge.
Bryan L. Kennelly was appointed auc
tioneer to sell tho properly by John P.
O'Brien, referee.
The sale will mark the culmination of
a scries of difficulties through which the
F. & D. Company, owners of the Ganlen,
have passed during the laBt four months.
They started with tho filing of the fore
closure suit, which was followed by the
evicting of the tenant, the Show Com
pany, last week for non-payment of
$300,000 rent and the filing nf a bank
ruptcy petition on Monday bj tho F & D.
Company.
' ' " ... , ,., , , ,
Because of the unusual position which
Madison Square Uarden holds lit the
Community tliriu in mu-ivuu "liciv.i
concerning the future of the property
Until the result of the sale Is known It
will be Impossible to sy whether the
building will be removed or not, There
Is a second mortgage on the property for
$350,000 held by Thomas W. Joyce,
COLUMBIAN NOT TORPEDOED.
Germans Sank Her ly Hum lis After
Mrnillnir Creiv In Boats.
Cokunna, fpaln, Nov II. Members
of tho crew of the American ntcumshlti
Columbian nave mude full statement
iiesci iuiiik lint eiuniog nt tiieir vessel o
a German mbmsrlne, tlie U-49, The
ship wan sunk, they say, by two bombs
placed In the hold by the crew of tho
submnrlne. They were transferred to n
Swedish steamer, belts permitted to
take a part of their baggage. Then the
fuses of the bombs were lighted and the
exiiloslon occurred In twelve minutes).
The Columbian first flighted the buh
nti. line during it storm. The German
fired n shot across hir bows, When the
rnptalti slopped he was told to follow
tlie submarine nil night, guide! by lock
ets and answering in the eame way, but
not to attempt to -ret nearer or to re
cape. .The destruction of tlie vesacl took
place oitxt morning.
BRITISH PRESS ON;
TAKE BEAUCOURT
Ocn. Hate's Troops Consoli
date Gains Made In Surprise
Attack on Somme'.
PRISONERS TOTAL 5,000
Ilerlin Admits: "Our Tenacious
Defence Caused Uh Consid
ahle Losses."
London-. Nov. 14. Pressing home the
I made yestenlay, was announced olllclally
- day. tlen. llalg's bulletin to-night
, .,.,,, i,,., im.eil
- prisoners lread he passed .
through the collecting stations, with
. .
mor), xn COU,t,d.
ti..ti.. ...!.... l.n
acinus defence c.uned ns' considerable I
losses."
This conflicts In some degree Willi tne
TmcM "'"""i ("r,rn1"' wh,ch "I
' T troops opposing the advance on both
ferlor to those encountered further to
the south of the Soinme battle line. Ap
parently. It was stated, the flerman high
command placed Its reliance on Its cun
ningly devised physical obstacles rnther
than on the morale of the troops.
neat Troopa llemava.
The bett regiments, eyewitnesses as
sert, were sent to sectors further to the
south, where the Hermans Itava been
driven out of their old line trenches and
hsvo the more dllllrult task of defending
hastily made lntrcncltmcnt.
The Ilrlllsh attack owed much of Its
success to a fog, according to correspon
dents who witnessed It. For four days
an Intense bombardment was Kept up.
Taking refuge In their dugouts the fler-
mans accepted esttrday morning's ex
plo!ve hall us part of the dally routine.
Meanwhile the British troops were
creeping toward them unseen. A few
vards fiom the (lerman trenches they
sprang erect, and with cheers made the
final spurt. It Is asserted. In contradic
tion to Berlin's statement that the Brit-
JZ,
',, ,. .
At St. I'lsxre Dlvion yesterday the
(lermans made their best showing, and
there was no easy conquest at that
point. Instead, ten waves of British
pwept up to the assault before tha en
gagement was decided. In the end. how
.. . . ,
"T;:.," 7. ,7". ,K" a J:.;E
observer who accompanied the advance
says the average depth taken hy the
British on the first day was 1,000 to
1,200 yards on a front of four to five
miles. I
Taken by nrprlse. '
An Associated Press correspondent
wires that tho surprise was so complete
that the garrison of trenches near Beau-'
mont-llsmel was preparing breakfast
.I1.11 IliA tlrltUh ktnrmerf thn nn tlnll .
The Hrltlh rounded up seventy prison
ers and then ate the breakfast. I
The majority of the prisoners nre
Slleslans," ho wires, "nnd. according to
light, owing largely to the unexpectedly
feeble character of the German machine
gun fire,"
Tho British experienced thrlr usual
trouble with hidden machine gun crews,
who waited until they had passed nnd
then fired upon them front the rear. This,
ut some points, notably near Serre.
caused them to turn back and "clean up"
the ground before proceeding further.
British Statement.
The British official statement to-night
sal.l :
"The village of neaucnurt-sur-Ancre
is In our hands. The prisoners reported
to date number considerably over i.noo
t aim HUM f iwiuiHH
"To-day a local advance was made
east of Butte de Warleneourt. Practi
cally all our objectives were gained.
Some eighty prisoners were taken In this
area."
The bulletin Issued hy the French War
Office to-night reads ,
"South of the Somme during the day
tho enemy artillery, which was vigor
ously replied to by our guns, violently
bombarded the region of Prrssolro and
the sector of Blaches and l-ii Mndsonnett.
"In tho Argonne wo occupied nt Foor
de Paris a crater caused hy the explosion
of n German mine.
"On tho Verdun front there was an In
termittent cannonade, more active In the
regions of Pouaumont and Vaux. Every
where else the day was quiet."
The Parib day statement contained the
following:
"In tho Champagne a strong enemy
detachment which tried to approach our
i line Hlier H .tutrix uuiiiwtMuiurill n .in
I ""?.. ,..., i,i i... nr. ...t e a.,i,.
line after m violent bombardment was
'7. 1 ' '
Berlin Admits Losses,
Mrni.iN- fhv wireless). Nov. 14 Thn'.. .... .-.r,i mnnthte. and Ft-..-., lias
ofllclal statement Usued by Qerman army
i..iriotiHrters regarding oneratlons on
the western front said:
on notn siues ot tne utver Aticreyes-
terday there was violent fighting, Strong
British attacKs preparen uy ronccntrnieii
artillery fire of the heaviest calibres were
launched ngulust our positions, forming
an angle to the eouthwestward. The en
emy under considerable sacilflces sue
ceedeil tn pushing us hack from Be.iu-
mont-Haiuel and St. Pierre Dlvion, to
,n,r w,, th e adjoining leading
, , t,f prepared positions.
our tenacious defence caused us con
slderable luses.
"Other places of thn front were under
uttuck from tho east of Hehuleme ns
far as the south of Grandcourt. Wher-
ever the British had entered they vverek it was said to-tlny that the bear
ejected hy the brisk counter attacks ofrntrayetl from Cyril ciimmln'a estate In
our Infantry."
I'.ldt-rly Hanker lines to Jail,
BitiiifiKt'OitT, Conn., Nov. 1 1 Herbert
M. Knnpp of the banking firm nf Burr
& Knnpp, which failed October 22, 1914,
pleaded guilty to-day to twelve counts
In it complaint alleging fraud in connec
tion with the failure of the firm. He
was sentenced to Jail for on year,
Knapp Is CS yean old.
LONG AND BITTER STRUGGLE
BEFORE ALLIES, SAYS GREY
British Foreign Secretary Asserts Every Belligerent
Right Must Be Exercised to Conquer Foe
Gives Quietus to Peace Talk.
Washington, Nov, 14. Referring to
the opinion prevailing In some quartern
that the end of the war Is In sight. Vis
count Kdward Qrey, the British Foreign-
Secretary, states that this Is not the
case and that "a long and bitter strug
gle" Is ahead of the Hntcntc Allies. He
makes It clear that nothing but the vic
tory of the Allies can Justify thoughts of
peace.
The hlghlv Important statement by
viscount Grey attracted notice at the
state Department to-day and Is re-1
1- .... nuTtrr" vi.nnt tir.v smtes-.
,.,lmt ,,,,, .... ... ,
. imni.irj positinn is now url1
lat t , unnoory for h, Majcty's
Government to Uke any steps which ,
prejudice, even ,0 a sl.ght extent, the I
commerce of neutral countries; that the
end of the war Is In sight and that noth-1
Ing which happens In distant neutral'"10'" ror the purpose or e.tan isntng a
. . .....
countries can affect the ultimate result.
Neutral Mights Not I'arnmoant
"If that were really tho position It Is
possible that measures taken by his
Majesty's Oovernment might he de
scribed as uncalled for, but It Is not.
Even though the mllltnry situation of
the Allies has dally Improved there Is
still a long and bitter struggle In front
of them and one which, in Justice to the
principles for which they are fighting,
Imposes upon them the duty of employ-
Ing eer- opportunity and every meas-
... 1
uro which they can legitimately use to
overcome their opponents.
"One observation which Is very com
monly heard Is that certain belligerent
, ... ., , .. .
to have any Influence In a etruggl. : of
such magnitude. It Is. I knos. tlltncult
! . ... -
tact with the war to realize with what
painful anxiety men and women In this
country must regard even the smallest
acts which tend to Increase, If only by
b halmbreadth, the danger In which their
relatives and friends dnlly stand, or to
prolong. If only by a minute, the period
during which they are to be exposed to
such perils.
"Whatever Inconvenience may be
caused to neutral nations by tne exer-1
else of belligerent rights It is not to be
compared for an Instant to the suffering
ALLIES OVERMATCH
TEUTON MAN POWER'
Xflist mmin F.VCrV XerYC.lIOW
- 'HIS' iMU"" ' 1 '-'-
ever, Says Reviewer for
London "Times."
fiptrill Cal.h Tittpalth lo Tas Scs fr.yin thf
London 7hnn
London, Nov. 14. The military corre
spondent of the Time writes as fi.ll.iws
on the question of the man power of the
Allies and the Central Powets:
"Germany's wise economy of her
voting contingents and lier constant te
examination of the medically unlit and
the refusal to consider the claims or the
'conscientious; objectors' and also of the
civil service, her success In restoring to
the colors u high ptopoitlon of the tier
man wounded, the use of prisoners In
factories and on farms, the forced labor
of tho population of the occupied teirl
torlcs nnd finally the trap she has baited
to catch the Poles, all enable her to
maintain In the field units of full
strength irnrh longer than any one
would have thought possible.
"These successes are due to national
,1li.clnllne and complete subordlnati.-..". of
. , , .. . - , , i ft,
tne interests m m- ...
of the State. The mllltat Izntlon ot tlie
entire nation lepresents a rcmarhame uN-nt for otgunlzing nnd for being or- the blacklisting of Ameil an fl ins was
achievement. By a well organized s.v s- I Kil,:7.ed. Is now tn bo excelled by the 1 Inconsistent with "that tnie jusl.ee. slu
tern of substitution Germany Is already ,jerm;ln people. Despite questions, erltl. I cere nmltv ami Impartial f lendliii
able tn take for her armies two Hatches , cisms and doubts the reception of this 'which should ch tr.irterize i!n dealings
or nan a toiiin.it i r.... .......
the course of taking a third from the
munition works, mines, railways and
other essential national Industilcs.
"She has been nblo to build up 200
field divisions and cannot now safely
bo credited with less than 4,r,PO,not men
In her field armies. On lines of com
munication, guards anil reserves gen
erally, owing to the measures Germany
Is taking, she cannot even now be reck
oned to have less than 2,000,000 men,
"The situation broadly is that thn
Allies arc faced with the necessity of
straining every nerve to place in the
' gim nnd shell,
field next year every man
tluvt all the countries can produce.
"We Allies .tie quite able to make this
i.ttnrt mid In (Herniate)! Germanv We
effort, atio to overmatcii cit rni.iiij. n e
error and to overmatch Germanv We
In lnesri.land. 4.ave Vtmbel
and four mUl
civil llf" ot counting
urVl .r be terioTtlon ban Germany
are In far better position than Germany
to maintain the war Our gallant
dominions have still large reserves of
j.r.,1 ttnnroves tne nuHiititv nnu ntiaiiiv ,
. .. . . . ,..
teen most successful In thawing inore
1 r.n, elvil eninlnvineiits. She now
exceU In the att of accomplishing great
things In the field wun relatively slight
pfcF.
POSSE HUNTING BEAR IN CONN.
Itrsltlel.ts of Kiiu nil Bench llepnrled
Terrified hy llrnln,
GiiKKNWicti , Conn., Nov, 14. Armed
with ropes, farm implements nnd re
volvers t'oustnble George T, Jones and a
posse compos 4 of some of the leading
citizens of the town nre to-night sur
rounding the woods In Lnddin'f Itocli
farm, where n lieitr tins tuhen tefuge.
Noroton, Conn., several tlnys ago, since
then It huH been terrifying residents of
i Sound Beach, where It made Its first np
, penrance nn Sunday, when It swam
1 ashore from Shlppan Point.
lMwin Blimey endeavored to lasso the
hear ufter It had climbed a tree, but the
bear got away.
PlNEIH'KHT HOTELS AMI r.OI.F t.lNKH
now open. Inq.Stabosrd Air Uot, 1111 B' way,
Adv.
man power. ' Russia has still ample ro-! epi lug tn expend more ammunition than wm, ,he enemy has prom,. ted the legis
serves and Will produce larger armies . now nt their disposal, What we have u,on.
e.clt vear the war lasts, Italy Increase tn u" 18 10 tllln 1111 Oermany Inlo one m conclusion the British Government
and tosn occasioned to mankind by tha
prolongation of the war even for n
week." .
BRYCE FOR PEACE BODY.
Ki-Ambassador Saya t. 8. Shoatd
Lead In Moveasent.
tisnov. Nov. 14. Viscount Bryce, the
former British Ambassador to the United
States, speaking to-day at a meeting of
the Mayllower Club, which has as Its ob
ject the perpetuation of the memory of
r '
"TIiIh war has br
war has brought upon tho world
the war will International fears, hatreds
and suspicions return, and will great
armaments a e-tlll heavier burden to al-
r,..iy Impoverished peoples- have again
to be maintained 7
"J m"".. llf m hlnaltoii "f
r.lce ovln(t nations to be formed after
tho war ard after the treaty of settle
.permanent iteace. ine simplest way ui
, llol,iB Mr , r(,qulrc lnnt ,vcrv Inter-
nauon.n outputs snau im sunmuieii in
nrblttatlon or conciliation before any re
sort to arms. Such a plan could not lie I
" ,,' ', '" ,1 ".' .,. 1 Ue .1..
greatest of the neutral nations.
t,'. S. No Longer Isolated.
"Thft lnlla,t (Jt-ltsa hnm lilflirtn .tnn.l I
apart In Isolation, hut Isolation is no I
longer possible. Kvery countty Is now ,
spirit of antl-democrattc aggression. The
United Htntes has avoided entangling '
alliances. Hut a League of Peace would
be no entangling alliance. It would be
... . . .... . .
a smoothing uown nnn straigntrning out 1
the world mrruicn tn cmuron
'"Alr'eady many leading statesmen
have proosed such n scheme ns I hate
...sii.j 11 t w. r t 1 1 .
ughes have glvn It the?r heany a p.
prova, . puWc oplnlon , ,)0tn pttrt
nllke t dally growing In Its favor,
.. , nrcat Britain we cannot take
pra,.tcnI t, thls war haB
ns It certainly will be fought through
to u decisive victory. But meantime we
may begin to consider what those prac-1
tlcal steps should be and we can as.
sure our friends In America of our m-ib
pathy wltli their scheme and our willing-
nesa tb cooperate In a work to which
our common Ideals turn. Let us -con-
secrate our friendship In nil effort to
. cure for mankind tha blessing of an
'enduring peace."
GERMANY BEGINS
SUPER-ORGANIZING
All Labor Male nnd Female
to Ue 1'tilized in Country
Wid .Munitions Work.
.adequate action has jet been taken by
the Government of the Tinted States to
f.trul iu, finpatef, tn Tn Stv 'ram He suppress br aches of neutrality of this
1 nujon Timet ipaitlcular triniinul kind, which I know
I that they an- the lit .-t in ilisiounttiianca
AMsTrttntM (via London). Nov. 14. j ntl deplore."
Fourteen (Jtrm.in newspapers contain. The chief defence win, h the British
the details of the organization of the
German Umpire on a war h.isls by the
eniolment of all labor. F.ven the women
from 10 to CO ate. to be enrolled and
controlled by a great central organiza
tion culled "The tilllce for War," whence
the threads are to be cntrled to tha re
motest country villages, even to farm
houses nn the mountains nnd moorland,
The picture appeals Immensely, ns was
intended, tn the German belief In the
ultimate superiority nnd invincibility nf ' w '', 1,s, 1 rn!"M,,t s1,!,'rv 1 '"
, , protest In the must decided t,'irs'
t.etman org.inlz ng genius. 0r(l4, nrilaln In re,!v sivs the black
What Gen l.roner, the head of the i.t n'mcd nt neiit.al t id. at all.
newly created Department of Munitions, 1 i,ut Is sl i plv "the exc i-e . f t,ie siv
tironoses. and Inde.-tl alieatlv Is f,m!t.:iv. .i..t..' ..r n.. t i
- . .
, ining in carry inn. is mo npntneosis ot
. .rKuiilK:ttifHi. All picWous liutulng, nil
inn greiti nemauii is everywhere ravor-
able, for they ate ready to bellevo Gen
Grnner's assurance that this is the real
goddess of iirgitiil.atlon who will bring
them out of the house nf bondage.
Yet tho Germans do not hesitate to ad
mit that this enotmous effort is neces
sltated by their own mulct estimate of the
qualities of their chief adversary. The
Lelpz ger .iuette AitriliirAIrn, for ex- j torv or not, the facilities w he n flow from
ample, "ays: (participation In oomiuiitf '
"When in August, 1914, Kitchener,
coined the phrase, 'For Ungland the war, Improper .Unlives Denied,
will only begin In 19HV ne sneered, for , ,.. ,,, ,.,. tl,.,, ,i,
,vo.1,(,1.llVr'' '."'"f, M"t'' ,th,en " hI.',""M
' ,,' ... .. .. ,. ' .,''.... ' T. . V T.. '. L" J.7'
j ,7,e .lie "ng Is, as a n it I on wV now
. '-nutsn as n nation, vve now
. ......... ,e rea enemv vv ho s Is unoii b s
' !",,'," V1" ''n"n n n:,t,?n' w" n?w
V" vM!ley en"',0' e'-
r,ine u" V"; "S""'1' ''
I "I4""1' .Vs w"".cr "
the gups In their store of colossal sup- now f,f rnntmerce Is restricted, ami add
plies which will enable them In the 1 )nu, ,i,,. onle the n.eil of . -irt.tihnc trade
1 eolel.il tooiilt Inns raeiorv."
Gen Groner thus describes Germany
l organized for war wotk: "The New
. ar Office represents Germany as a
' colossal firm which Includes all produc
Unit of evciy kind Indifferent of the
kind of coat, whether civil or military, j firms be stricken ftoni the blacklist, but
which the employees wear. The new (envr open the door for further neg -measures
ate Intended to mubllUe all tlatinn, which Is expected to follow,
tifectlvc labor, whereas nt present wj , In Its argument the note points out
only have mobilized the army nf Indus- that German liuslnev. lem-cs thioughout
tr.v. All labor, women's us well as tho wot Id have furtheiiM thu cause .if
men's, must be extracted front the popu- Germany In tlm war nnd t minutes.
Intlon. If voluntary enlistment does) "In tin' fa " nf enemy (t.-tivitles of
not Miltlce. vve will not be uble to avoid ti ls nature It was e,n itial f, r I. is
compulsion
The VoU t .fit Miin, pointing out the ex
emplary results of the efforts of the Brit
ish Ministry of Munitions ns displayed
In the Homme battle, constituting a se.
rlous warning for the future, says that
Get many docs not lack law material and
must mobilize nil the human material at
her di.spnsal In order fully to exploit this
raw material.
"We must weld together In the closest
manner possible," adds thn paper, "our
home army and our field army "
Berlin newspapers puniisiird an urgent
nfllclal appeal to the women to apply at
the war factories for wotk, War brides
ate accused of leaving factories on their
marriage nnd taking separation allow -
ances and refusing to continue work.
BRITISH REFUSE
0. S. DEMAND TO
DROP BLACKLIST
Reply Even Accuses Amer
ica of Laxity in Her
Neutrality.
FREQUENT BREACHES
HERE ARE CHARGED
Viscount Orey Declares Boy
cott Is Purely Domes
tic Legislation.
DENIES ATTEMPT TO
SEIZE NEPTHAL TRADE
.
AsHel'SIOUS Oil EllffllSll JUI-
tives Sharply Denounced
in the Note.
Washington, Nov.
II. (iic.it
Urltoln'a reply to President Wltion'H
note of Inst July protecting aKainst tho
llcU-lltlng of American liusluesH llrms
and individuals; was mailt' public Ht th!
u.... - . . .....
uiiciu iu-u.i.
1 . 1 n .1 .. ... 1 1 1, ,H
n w n ni i-jcuwu m n- .nti 1 n.in
contentions ImsoiI on the ground that
' tlle "rltlsli bhckllst 1", purely ilnmestlo
legislation. Mr. l.nin-lnc Indicated tliat
tl States would contltmo tho
ccai nrBum.-nt Involved In tlie dlplo-
tnntlc conimunlontlo!'.
Tlie British CIowi anient In the nolo
0f Viscount Crcy. the llritieh Koreisn
. . , ,, , ., ,, ,. ,
SpcroUr vittually charse,. tlie Lnltcd
'States with laxity III KtiipreslilR
h . ,..,.,,, . .... (,,rmlll, ,,.
"rcacnM ft ncnti.iiii, ti t.rrmans in
' this country.
"It Is common knowledge th.it Herman
business establishments In fnielan coun
tries have been not meicly cc-iiIimi of
German trnde," Vl-cniuit (Jtey states,
"but active agents for the iHsM-mlmitlon
of German political nnd .-,, - ,il liillnenci
ntiil for the pitrpo-e of espionage In
some cases they h.ivo been ti.. il as bases
of supply for Geiman ciuiscis nnd In
other caes ns tirganlzcis nnd piym.ie
ters of miscreants rmplojcd to destroy
by foul mums, fnctm.i-s ergaetd In mak
ing, or shift, engaged In tarrying sup
plies required by tho Al'.ie?.
Ilri-aclies of Ventrnllt; .
"Suth operations have been cntied on
In the territory eviu of the I mted Stutea
Itself, and I am hound in observe, what
I tin not think will b- tl-m-U. that no
' Government makes in supput or tlm
blacklist s cuiit.iiut tl In tins paiasiaph:
"I (Viscount (irt.vl cim s .timely be
lieve that the t'luml Si.Hih Gcvtriimrnt
Intends to challenge the tight nf Great
Britain as n soveielgn statu to pass leg.
Islntimi pioblblllng all ten t- who own
her itllegi.tnce from ti.idn g wit ii .my
specified persons wlnn such prnMMtlon
Is found nece.-suiy .u Ihn piullo inter
est '
Pieslilrnt Wilson 111 li i.tc ii.tr
ncteiized the blurklist ,is ",i , u ny In
terference with iieutinl 1 1 ml.- against
ii I K 1 1 i in "i .ii ii i ,i f t.i in
,0Vpr )t. 0wn citizens and tioti tng mote."
i President Wilson took the urotind that
of frlemllv Governinents w t.i one .in-
other."
Viscount Grey In icplv s.r s he .vtnuot
Intenitet tti. President's note incan-
Itg that "his Mtijestv's Government alt
obliged by any rule nf Internal --n.il law
In give to tho-e who are it,' wl assist
ing the caiue of their enemies, whether
they be established In the emv terrl-
! I'nlted States has mterptrted the bl.t. k-
1 1 l-t legislation as liav ng a M tnng o i
the general flow or tnu-rat trade for
, ,not XPS n her than the .ies.i t i icsti i t
' .i.t. .t. ei. .
1 motives other than the d.-s.i - t , inn i
trading with the enemv Th s Gre,
i Hrltaln denies aft. r .-miihasizing tl
contention that British end- stiff.
equally with Atr.erl.-an Hade when tl
thn
rs
iinnllv n-tHi Atr.eiiean ti.nle when tlm
Indicates that the title temrily would be
for Ameilratis to lefi.i.n from a species
of trade win, b cxpo-e. innocent com
merce to suspicion.
The note falls to meet tlie American
.demand that the i, tines of Ameiicui
M'lJestv's Government tn tul.o steps
that should .cunt tie). run nteiet.s so
strongly Imstlln nf the f.tcd.tics nnd nil
vantage" of unrestricted Hading Willi
British subjects. Tlm pnli.i.- opinion of
this countty would not base tolerated
the piolong.itltm of the w,i hy tho con
tinued liberty nf Hulish Mil.Ji.ts to train
with nil hi enrich the lirms In foreign
countries vvln.se wealth .mil lulluciicn
were alike at the services of the enemy ''
Tlm note says thn lint -h ' lovernment
teadl.v admits the Vii.t.-d .''tales cnti-
trillion that neutrals have the right to
tratle with belllgclrn's, but that tho
ii'mtrd States must abo admit the right
'nf one belllgeienl tn stop Pi tradn by
1 lawful means, by seizures of contraband
I or a blockade. But this particular legls.
I
