- . "iwwjMPMmw jui io,niisjivviv;Jfft"r-.-1'
NIGHT
EXTRA
icimring
'FINANCIAL EDITION
jSTRA
VyN
V V
. 21fc r
larger
NIGHT
EXTRA
ol. m.-Now
PI1ILAD32LPIIIA, WEDN I5SDAY, XOVJ3MIH5II 15, 11)10
CortmoiiT. 101(1, nt tint Pintle I.iixirn CourNt
PIJIOB ONE CENT
RAILWAYS JOIN
P.R.R. IN FIGHT
ON 8-HOUR LAW
Injunction Sought Against
Eniorcing auuiubuh
Act
GENERAL MOVE IN EAST
Objections to 8-Hour Law
Made in P. R. R Suit
mHE net deprives employers and
Congress is not lawfully empow
ered to enforce the net.
I? Is nn unlawful invasion of
rients, personal liberty nnd property.
The act is illcRal, inoperative nnd
Mt blndinK because of .the incon
sistent nnd conflicting intcrpreta-
Brforeement of the act will largely
increase amount of wages which will
b payable to company's employes
liter January 1.
Congress did not attempt to define
In what manner present standard
iay's wages should bo ascertained.
FIRST SNOW OF WINTKU
II KUE WITH COM) WAVB
Flurries Make Debut of Season as
Thermometer Fnlls 10 Degrees
Tho nrst snow of winter fell In Phlla
ilclplila today after the mercury linit did
down the tlicrmonicter nineteen degrees tn
twelve hours, in mot parts of tho city
It melted, however, before It touched tho
ground. Today the city was tho center
of the eastern cold area, n record November
rold wave having swept across tho con
tinent from the Northwest, breaking low
temperature records for this time of tho
year In many parts of tho country and ns
far South as tho Texas panhandle.
The tempera ttiro was 31 degrees at 8
o'clock, and Forecaster George Hllss has
predicted a temperature of !8 degrees or
lower for tonight. Snow flurries were inter
mittent during tho day. Tho tempcraturo
roso to 36 degrees at noon.
WILSON MAY TAKE
PEACE INITIATIVE,
APPONYI ASSERTS
Election Assured, President
"May Prove Different,"
Hungarian Says
D. S. RETALIATION
URGED AS ANSWER
TO BOYCOTT NOTE
Drastic Action Unlikely,
However, in View of
Possible Results
COMMON GROUND NEARER
GERMANS BATTLE
IN VAIN TO REGAIN
GROUND ON ANCRE
All Teuton Counter-Attacks
Crushed by British,
Haig Reports
A eeneral movement by tho railroads of
(h East to tesi mo icKHiuy " "" ""
Em eliht-hour law affecting railroad cm-
yloyes Is presaged by the action taken this
''afternoon by tne i-cnnsyivunm jutum..
Tt. company filed n bill In equity In tho
rnlted States District Court asking nn In
junction against tho thrco Federal District
Attorneys In Pennsylvania to prevent them
from prosecuting the company under tho
provisions of the Adamson law.
PWIqwIng tne action ny mo i-ennsyivnnin.
Baliroad, the New York Central also filed
bill of complaint In the United States Dis
trict Court In New York asking that tho
Aiamsoh law bo declared unconstitutional.
In line with the steps taken by tho Pcnn
ijlnnja and Newr York Central roads,
Charles Heebner, of tho Philadelphia nnd
Hading Railway, announced that the Read
ies .would tako similar action during tho
present week. Many other big Kastern
iritems are expected to follow suit.
In' the West similar steps have been
U!n by the Union Pacific and other roads.
The bill of the Pennsylvania Company
lilting that the Adamson act be declared
unconstitutional was filed through John G.
Johnson.
.ATTERDUUY SIGNS PLEA
in affidavit to the truth of the facts ret
forth In the action brought by the Penn
Ijrlvanla road Is appended to the bill and
6 pea by W. "W. Atterbury, vlco president
tlarge of operation.
tit Feaerat District, Attorneys In Penn
ijtnnla are Francis Fisher Kane, eastern ;
Jtojkr S. Burnett, middle, "and U. Lowry
Homes, western district.
The bill goes on to contend that Con
gress Is not lawfully empowered to enforce
rich a measure and that the act itself de
prives employe and complainant of liberty
of contract.
COMPANY'S COMPLAINT
The bill says In part:
'That the Pennsylvania Railroad Com
pany now pays and did on September 3
and 5, 1916, pay to Its engineers wages or
'compensation corresponding with the
amounts or rates originally determined
through and by awards mado by boards
of arbitrators appointed pursuant to agree
ment between the company and tho Bald
employes; that It now pays and did on
September 3 and 5, 1916, pay to Its fire
men, conductors, trainmen nnd baggagemen
wages or compensation corresponding with
the amounts or rates originally determined
through' and by awards made by boards of
arbltrators appointed pursuant to the act
i uongrets or the United States, ap
proved June 1, 1898, entitled "An act con
.cerning carriers engaged In Interstate com
ntxu and their employes," generally known
and, referred to as tho Krdman net or to
tke act of Congress of the United States,
approved July 15, 1913, entitled 'An act
providing for mediation, conciliation and
arbitration In controversies between cer
tain employers and their employes." gen
erally jtnown and referred to ns the New
lands net
The 'Adamson law Is then given In Its
entirety.
BILL NOT BINDING, HOAD SAYS
The bill also contends that the Adamson
Uw Is Illegal and Inoperative and not bind
ing upon the complainant because of tho In
consistent and conflicting Interpretations.
ia pointed out that neither now nor at
tte date of passage of the act wad thero
b exlatence any day measured by hours or
ork done that could be regarded ns a
andard day. Nor was there any wage
Hid that could be regarded as a standard
tot employes embraced In the act.
The company avers that nfnr,n.m f
act win largely Increase the amount
f wages or compensation which will be
jrable to Its employes after January 1.
The company further contends that the
WOULD MEAN TRADE WAR
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15. Publication of
tho note of tho British Foreign Ofllce refus
ing to modify the British blacklist of
American business firms has brought scores
of demands from business men that tho
United States now wield tho weapon of
retaliation, tho Instrument of last resort,
as a means of obtaining relief.
Sccretnry of State Lansing and President
Wilson today were nearlng their final deci
sion as to whether retaliation shall be em
ployed and British ships bo refused
clearance from American ports when they
refuse to carry the exports of tho black
listed firms. Tho matter has been given
a great deal of attention by Secretary
Lansing since receipt of the blacklist note,
seven days before election.
Notwithstanding the flat refusal of Great
Britain to adopt a policy In accordance with
the demands of the United States, State De
partment officials today said there was
small likelihood that retaliation would be
employed.
President Wilson and Secretary Lansing,
It was said, had resolved to accept the re
port of ofTlcials of the Department of Com
merce and tho Federal Trade Commission,
whose Investigation of the subject brought
recommendations that plans for retaliation
bo dropped. They held that such a course
would result In the Allies adopting counter
retaliation, which would play havoc with
American commerce In all quarters.
A sharp rejoinder to the British note is
not unlikely, some officials believe. They
think the State Department will hot over
look the following paragraph In the note,
which is signed by Vlscvunt Grey, British
Foreign Minister:
I am bound to observe what I do not.
think will bo denied that no adequate
action has yet been taken by the Gov
ernment of tho United States to sup
press breaches of neutrality of this
particularly criminal kind, which I
know it Is the first to discountenance
and deplore.
Tho "particularly criminal kind" referred
to the Viscount's own statement that Ger.
man business firms In the United States had
been the bases of supplies for German war
ships and paymasters of "miscreants em
ployed to destroy by foul means factories
engaged In making or ships engaged In
carrying supplies required by tho Allies."
Aside from the assertions regarding thin
alleged failure of tho United States Gov
ernment to suppress such activities, tho
British note is largely a reiteration of tho
British contention that the blacklist policy,
being directed entirely to the governing
of the trading operations of British sub
jects, Is entirely within British rights.
r , t
FRENCH JOIN IN FIGHT
Extend Positions Near St. Pierre
Viiast G000 Foes Arc
Captured
COUNT APPONYI
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
BHKLIN, Nov 13 campaign worries
off his mind, his election assured. President
Wilson "may prove an altogether difterctit
President and see his opportunity when the
moment arrives to help obtain peace in
Europe."
So declared Count Apponyl, one of the.
most prominent of Hungarian leaders nnd
a world figure before the war In the peace-by-arbltrntlon
movement, on his arrival
hero today from Budapest to speak at a
special meeting of the Ilelchstag. He de
clared peace was "getting nKirer."
"I'm sure It's on its way." he said. And
he added with a happy smile:
' "I don't mean pence will come next
week or next month or within two months
even. I am only certain that the founda
tions for peaco are now being laid. If you
will compare the speeches of Chancellor
Bethmann-Hollwcg and Earl Grey, made ut
the beginning of the war, with what they
have said recently, you will seo that tho
two rhlcf belligerents arc getting on closer
ground. They are Mill wide apart but
they arc approaching a common ground.
And why not? All wo nsk Is Kccurity. We
ask nothing but to be pcrmltled to live and
develop In peace.
COMMON G HOUND KOIt PEACE
"Wo able that kind of penco which the
people of nil civilized nations want tho
peaceful opportunity to Ilvo ami exist hap
pily as a nation."
"Is this 'common ground' the desire of
all nations to have International agreements
which will keep peaco?" tho Count was
asked.
"Yes." he nnswered. "Tho peaco which
closes this war must he u peaco which
guarantees future world peace if such
peace can bo; anil I don't know why not.
Tlyn all this horrible bloodshed will not bo
In aln for futuro generations."
"But docs England want peace?"
There are peace parties In till :auntrles
England, France, P.iusla. of courso
Continued on Pace Sl. Column Tnci
LONDON. Nov. IS.
With no abatement In the fury that at
tended Its Initial smash, tho British stotm
of metal and men against Germany's daunt
ed suViirfiicr formications on both t.Ides
if tin Aticrc ltlver continues. All lato ills
patches from the front said German counter
attacks bae lu-en futile against tho Brit-
lib. who nr holding the innermost socllons
ff Hsit n taken at Beaumont, Hamel,
Ream-Mint and St. Plerro Dlvlim.
General Haig olllclally reported to tho
W.ir mid' ('iday Hint hn has completely to-iin-ii
the gri'iind recently won, nnd that
bo ha. taken many moro prisoners, lio
tinuniimvd he would send a moro enmpre
1 imiic rrp.ni later.
T,i.' i.immi outpouring of high explosives
mill shrapnel from tho British big rfini3
iiinnriMl t.i renter on tho German lino
I'rnun niiout Mlrauniont to tho north and
t nn.. mit to the south. Mlrauniont Is tin
itnpio'i i t railway center nnd affonl.j an
a eo o m cluet-le.i!rand, which Is opposite
lle'Hiiernn nnd slightly more than two
into nnrthweit of Bapaume. Graudcourt,
on tir .Nnere'M south hank. Is on n south
ram. ii lunnch of the railroad that cctitora
nl Achiet-lc-Grnml utter passing through
Miraui'ii nt. .
Tho tot rifle effort spent on capture of
Beaumont, military experts said, coupled
with operations described in late press dis
patches from the front, led military experts
to believe General Halg already has be
gun a flank movement, with Its pivot nt
that village, to encircle Mlrauniont.
The number of prisoners taken continue
to mount. Nearly flOOO wore In the British
rear when General llalg filed his last re
port. And the German losses also arc
reaching serious numbers. For the first
time slnco tho battle of tho Somme began,
the defenders' losses havo exceeded those
of tho attackers, according to General
llalg.
Tho mighty thrust which the British
launched .alone Is now receiving the co
operation of tho French. Strong French
Infantry attacks wcro driven homo south
of Bapaume. Throughout the night there
wns violent cannonading nil along the
twenty-mile strip of Somme front.
While German Infantrymen sought to
stem the onrush of tho Allied legions,
massed batteries of Krupps maintained cur
tains of drumfire along, the rear of the
new Allied positions.
' Dispatches from tho fiont today give
graphic accounts of fighting amid the
ruined buildings of Beaucourt, which were
captured by General Ilalg's men on Tues
day. Tho German garrison holding tho
village had fortified most of tho houses
and had built tunnels connecting up these
blockhouses underground. Even tho cellars
had been turned into fortresses. When tho
British soldiers began to fight their way
through tho streets, clambering over the
piles of wreckage, they wero met with
withering blasts from maclilno guns nnd
lilies. Tho combat finally resolved Itself
Into a hand-tii-hand struggle, In which tho
bayonet played the chief part. Using their
list, like clubs, the soldiers battered their
way fbrwaril
Canadian troops played a big part in the
fighting.
According to olllelal dispatches from the
Canadians' headquarters to the War Olllce
today the Canadians captured 1000 yards
of German trenches. Including tho last sec-
Continued on l'a" I'ol'r Column Twu
PARENTS AND DAUGHTER
HELD IN DEATH OF GIRL
Finding of Body of Missing
Daughter Reveals Alleged
Murder in Illinois
Continued onj'nae Sis. Column One
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelnhia ami mVi...v.. rr
.' afternoon and tonight, with
rrebablu snow flurr? .;.i,.. u-j
fonf, with lowest temperature about
iy-tght degrees; Thursday partly
. ty and contmucd coW; gentle vari
m$ wiyd.
VVitii ..
ft . S!i? ; I ??-.-o Pm.
, " .wn uuiiia.i;ia a, m,
oRK B,VKB TII,K I'HANOKS
!.! HE!TNUT STIIBBT WHAUF
mViur' '22! '" I S?" water .J'J:1T p.m,
".itr .0.-OJ a.m. 1 nigh water. 53p, m.
"2TtATl)RK ATTACH IIOUK
.101 UT 121 iTtQl "a
ACCUSED OF KILLING
MOTHER AND BROTHER
John Edward Teiper Placed on
Trial at Buffalo Charged
With Fiendish Crime
rsmL
i n
nf
PONTIAC, III., Nov. 15. Jacob C. Die
mer. wealthy retired farmer, his wife, Marie
Piemer, and his daughter Magdalene were
today formally charged with manslaughter
In connection with the mysterious death of
Christine Dlemer, another daughter, a nor
mal Bchool graduate, whose bruised body
was found In the Vermillion niver. All three
were arrested. They were later released
on J10.000 ball to await the action of the
Grand -Jury.
It developed that the murdered girl con
trolled the family finances. When Coroner
Myers went to the farm and asked for the
dead girl's personal palters, the father gave
him two of his own notes, one for J1300,
and tho other 11300, both, made out to
Christine, He handed ever also a check for
50 which she had made payable to her
father.
Miss Dlemer disappeared October !7. The
family sold she had gone to Florida to
spend the winter. This week Mrs. Frank
Ilalnea, rowing across tho river, found the
body. It was Identified, by the father and
the theory of suicide was accepted until the
coroner ordered an autopsy. Then It was
revealed ahe had been murdered.
Colgate Receives Appointment
JEH315Y CITY, N. J-, Nov. 15, Colonel
Austen Colgate today received from Gover
nor Fielder fffrmal notification of his ap
pointment aa adjutant general, to succeed
iha lata Wilbur V. Sadler, lio has not as
I yet formulated any reply, and did not
UU wMtfer k wuM aaaast Ww aAc,
QUICK NEWS
P. R. T. ATTORNEY AGAIN FAILS TO SEE MAYOR
Elllo Ames Ikllard, chief ceutiwl for the yhllmlelpliln Rapid
Traatlt Oompany, today mntle another untmeceanful attempt to con
fer with Mnyor Smith relative to the proposed 1uk of tiP Ritv ,
high-speed" line to the transit company. Mr. Jlnllnrd rnllnl :i;
Mayor's office a elioit time before 1 o'clock and found ,'. Miyo:
nWnt. Yesterday afternoon he made n iljiiUnr unBttcre-sful . 't.
On troth orensjione he declined to Mate whether he Ued cove 'o- ...
twiftteiit or whether he wnn simply tryhig to fntittc rcnfori !.-,,
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
1'iM Bowie race, selling, 2-ycnr-olds, 0 1S furlongs Meddling
SItss, DT, 'roppleman, $10.60, 98.00, $8.30, vonj Green Tree. UjJ,
Lykc, $a.80, 5p2.$0, second; Kuthryn Gray, lis, Dutwell, S?1).00, third.
Sim?, i.oo a-n.
BRYAN WILL BATTLE TO CONVERT
DEMOCRACY TO PROHIBITION
NKW YORK. Nov. In.
WILLIAM JKNNIXGS 15KYAN. the old-tinio lender of Democracy, lias
put aside all personal interests and for tlic next four years will strive
ceaselessly to make the Democratic party declare for national prohibition.
The former Secretary of State, here today for the first t'me since the late cam-
paten started, stated his purpose in
unmistakable terms.
"When an issue arises," said Mr.
Bryan, "it must be met. The pro
hibition issue is here. The Demo
cratic paity cannot afford to take the
immoral side of a moral issue.
"ilv work durinc tho ne:tt four
years will be to do all that I can
to make Democracy dry. That is
the plain, unequivocal statement of
my attitude.
"It is not at all impossible that
'the two parties will in 1020 enter
into active rivalry for the dry vote
of the country. The Democratic
party does not owe nnythitiR to the
political bosses who control the
politics of wet cities, and a consider
able majority of President Wilson's
electoral votes came from dry terri
tory. "Of the dry State--, seventeen went
for Wilson, two more were close and
in four other Slates which he car
ried, prohibition has virtually been
decided on. The President carried
nearly all the States in which women
vote. Therefore, prohibition and
woman suffraKe arc paramount to the party. They should not and will not
bo side-tracked."
Mr. Bryan will lose no time in KcttinK to work. His drive against the
liquor element in tho party will be started from Indianapolis, next Sunday
morniiiff, when he speaks before the .Women's Christian Temperance Union's
national convention. He will" leave for Indiana tonight'.
O'NEIL ORDERS
PROBE OF ALL
RISK CONCERNS
Insurance Commission
er Will Begin State
wide Investigation
STARTED BY PENSION
MUTUAL DISCLOSURES
Wood Got Big Salaries for
Little Work, According
to Examiners
RELL WELL REWARDED
WILLIAM J. BUY AN
"Wizard" Wood No "Piker,"
Declares Commissioner
WOOD, "Insurance Wizard of
America," paid himself enormous
salaries for what Insurance Com
missioner O'Ncil regards as "doubt
ful service."
"Insurance Consolidator" Wood
paid himself $9000 a year from tho
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and $7500
from Union Casualty Insurance Com
pany, of this city, and figured on
20,000 a year from tho American
Assurance Company."
Commissioner O'Nell says he dis
covered the "insurance wizard" was
paying former Attorney General
John C. Pell $7500 a year for serv
ices as counsel.
Wood is described as. "no piker"
by Commissioner O'Ncil, who also
describes conditions of his compa
nies' nffairs as not "savory."
HUGHES LEADS WILSON IN MINNESOTA IJY 22.'
ST. PAl'b, Minn., Nov. If..--With ten precincts of cMll.iti otor.s uml j-oliller
votes from llfUen counties missing Hughes, nt noon, led Wilson In Minnesota by
223 on the face cf available figures. Uelurns tode" allowed the snme indPllnltmncKH,
however, that will feature them until thu official recount In Hennepin Coimty
(Minneapolis) tomorrow. Civilian voters thus far i?l: Wihion. 173,310; llUKhes,
178,652. Soldier voters in fifty-;ix of Boventy-ono counties give: Wilson. 971; Hushes,
SS2. These totaled: HurIich, 179,531; Wilson, 17'.i.31J. Hushes's lead, 223.
REPUBLICANS SEE LITTLE HOPE OF CALIFORNIA
SAN" l-'KANClSCO, Nov. 15. Itesuinpllon of the olllclul presidential count 111
California today found Ilepulilicnn leaders almost hopeless of any iniportunt changes
being made In the 3CO0 plurality slven President Wilson In tho unolllelal returns.
Hughes has made less than 200 votes net gain In the entire State. Of this 190
votes gnln was obtained in l.o.s Angeles County. About one-fourth of tho precinclH
are still uncounted.
WILSON TO SET NOVEMBER :!0 FOR THANKSGIVING
WASHINGTON. Nov. l.Y The White Ilous" loiUy officially announced for the
first tlinu thai IVeshiej.t Wilxon l.d ieiRiiuu.l Nowmbiv 3u as Thunkxyivins Day.
Doubt as to whether November 23 or Naxcinber 30 would bo Feleeled lias resulted
In thousands of telegrams of lmiulr beinn re '.-, ed in tho taut three days. The
President has not yet completed his Thanksgiving Day proclamation.
PHILA. ELECTRIC CALLS ASSESSMENT OF 2.50 ON STQCK
Directors of the Philadelphia Kleetrlc Company, at a meeting tn Camden today,
called an assessment of 12.50 iter share, making the stock full paid. Tho assessment
Is payable December 1. Tho last previous assessment was $5 a share and wati
paid December I. I1H3. which brought tho stock up to S22.50 paid. Tho fiKsessiucnt
called todas was h step in the refinancing plan of tlm coinpnny. The directors also
declared the regular iniurtciiy dividend of l,i per cent, payable December 15 to
stock of record November 21.
BUFFALO, Nov. 15. Tho trial which will
determine whether John Kdwnrd Telpcr 18
a matricide, nnd fuitriclde, guilty of one of
the most fleldlsh murder plots In criminal
annals, began here today.
Debonair nnd well groomed, hl cheeks
ioy with the cxerciao of a inllo walk from
the penitentiary, tho young defendant looked
the picture of confidence as he took his
place In the dock. He smiled gayly to his
wife, seated nearby, nnd watched court
proceedings with detached Interest.
The murders occurred nearly a year ago.
On Orchard Park highway, outside the city,
Mr- Agnes M. Teiper, her daughter nnd a
younger t-on were returning home In nn
automobile after n visit to John Teiper. The
latter was following in n second automobile.
Ills story and he was the only one able to
furnish a connected version of the night
was that lugnwuyinen Muuueniy niiacuru
the car ahead of him. When he sought to
Interfere he w-as knocked ueu?eIoen uml
robbed, he said.
Police found the mother and yours son
dead and tlie oaugnter ciuuueu into insensi
bility, They found valuables of which Jo)in
Teiper said he had been robbed In a ditch
nearby. Tho motive upon which they held
Teiper for the crime was the nordld one of
ineney an Inheritance hastened by crime
Mrs. Teiper had n fortune of f 150.000, which
she expected to divide equally among the
three children.
The tedious work of (selecting a Jury occu
pied most of the time In court today. Both
mm n creed to the taking; out of the court
room of the testimony of the sister, Oraoe J
BRIDE REFUSES DELAY;
WEDS MAN IN HOSPITAL
Illness of Bridegroom Only Pre
vents Pomp and Circum
stance of Nuptials
James A. Kmmoiis. young society man, of
430 Carpenter street. (Icrmantown, was nt
tltcd In n lounging roho and lay In his cot
with a physician on one sldo nnd a nurse on
the other when he was married in Chestnut
Hib Hospital today to Miss Mildred Hughes,
150U North Sixteenth street.
Young KnunmiH. who is convalescing from
pneumonia, came through the ceremony In
fine shape," according to his physician, Dr.
J. T. Ullom. lio didn't show a bit of tern
nerature even when tho final words of tlie
ceremony wero pronounced by the He v. John
f Francis, pastor of the Oxford Presby
lerlan Church, 151'J North Seventeenth
street. . ...
The tialr vero to he married at C p. m.
today with some pomp In tho Ilellevue
Stiatford. But the bridegroom was strick
en with pneumonia, and It was found neces
sary to withdraw the invitations. The
bride, however, was determined that the
marriage should not be postponed, so she
nrranged to wed Kmmons today at the
hospital.
Tim Ooodman room, wherein the cere-
inony was performed, was transformed Into
a bower with American Beauties and other
(lowers. Kmmons was propped up in his
bed with pillows, and he wore a little bou
nuct of lilies of the valley In the light
lapel of his lounging robe. His pale face
wore a happy smile when the guests arrived.
They were Mr. and Mrs. Hobert J,
Hughes, parents of the bride, the bride,
groom's mother, Mrs. H. Emmons, the bride,
groom's three brothers. French, Lewis and
Grey Kmmons, the attending physician,
Doctor lilom, ana aims uiucKin, me nurse.
CATTLE ON HOOF BRING $11.10 A HUNDREDWEIGHT
KANSAS C1TV, Mo Nov. 13. A record price for beef cattle was paid at the
local stockyards, w'iien forty bead, averaging 1357 pounds each, sold for $11.10 per
hundred pounds.
FIRE SWEEPING OIL STORAGE PLANT IN MEXICO
WASHINGTON, Nov, 1.". Commander Frederick A. Trnilt. of llio battleship
Illinois at Vera Cruz, reported to the Navy Department today that tho lire at
Pnerta Plata. Mexico, in the oil storago ipmrt'ers bad destroyed four giant tanks
filled with oil. Marines from tho gunboat heeling huvo been landed to help
light tho lire, but so far have been unsuccessful. Tho oil was consigned to the
Diitlsli Government.
TOTAL DEAD IN PADUA RAID NOW NINETY
LONDON. Nov. IS. Thirty more iindu. lime liecn found In house that wero
destroyed In tho recent air raid on Padua, a news dispatch from Homo wild today.
This brings the total dead up to nliiel.
SENATE MAY PROBE INDIANA CAMPAIGN
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15. Adinlnlblratlon lenders hole today are planning to
have the Senate turn full attention to political affairs In Indiana whon the luveu-
tlgatlon into national campaign expenditures, ii iieBiin. ueporm are ourrnnt llml
approximately $2,500,000 was prnt In that State neerelly hy HopublleanH to brlnic
about tho election of James K. Watson, of Itushvllle. nnd Harry H. Now, of Indian
npolis, us United States Senators. It was learned today tliat Republican loaders In
Congress will ulso Insist upon a thorough examination of tho Ucmlcratlo cxponso
account In Ohio, Kansas and California during the gonoral investigation because
no generally satisfactory explanation has ot been made us to why thoso normally
Republican States went Democratic.
' 3
RAISE POTATOES WORTH $810 ON THREE ACRES
HAGBHSTOWN, Md Nov. 15. Guy King, Maplovllle, brother of ex-Sheriff
Otto W. King, has broken all local records by raising 600 bushels of peach blue
potatoes off tbreo acres of ground. He values tho crop at 810,- or $280 per acre.
A sweeping Investigation of Insurance
companies of nil kinds doing business In
Pennsylvania is planned by Insurance Com
missioner .1. Denny O'Ncil ns a result of
the sensational disclosures of the nffairs of
tho Pension Mutual Life insurance Com
pany, of Pittsburgh, Pa., with offlces In
this city, and tho Union Casualty Insurance
Company, of this city.
Applications for receivers for both com
panies have been made by the Attorney
General's Department. Tho deficit of the
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Company
la said to be $1,098,422. nnd the deficit at
the Casualty Insurance Company moro than
$200,000.
Both the Union Casualty Insurance-Com'.
pany nnd tho Pension Mutual Life Insur
ance Company are controlled by the Coiv
solldated Investment Company, with offices'
In the Finance Building. The dominating,
power of this company l Lyndon D. Wood,
who through a method of consolidation
hoped to bring seventy-five Insurance com
panies Into ono gigantic merger.
These plans fell through when the Pen
sion Mutual Life Insurance Company's tan
gled affairs became public
Tho investigation, said Commissioner
O'Nell, wilt cover secret and fraternal so
cieties. "I believe that wo will bo ablo before
tho first of the year," said Commissioner
O'Nell. "to bring to the public Information
and conditions that will Impel the Legisla
ture to strengthen the State lnsuranco laws
very materially, nnd bring under the super
vision of tho .State lnsuranco Departmeni
every company Issuing an Insurance policy
of any kind in this State."
Tho operations of Wood were exposed
further today when application was made
for appointment of n receiver for the Union
Casualty Insurance Company of Philadel
phia by Attorney General Urown nt the
reipieFt of lnsuranco Commissioner J. Denny
O'Nell.
gigantic scliemo to control seventy-eight
Insurance companies In this country. Is
president of tho Union Casualty, which ha
offices at Third and Walnut streets.
Insurance Commissioner O'Nell had some
startling things to say concerning the Pen
slor Mutual LIfo Insurance Company, with
which the "lnsuranco miracle worker" Is
nt pocketed.
"Tho deeper we go Into the failure of
the Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
peny," paid O'Nell. "the more we find to
Interest us In our application for receiver
ship. The department Is rapidly coming
Into n lot of Information which will be
useful lu clearing up what nppcars now
to be anything but a savory situation,"
In tne application for rccelversh.p for
the Union Casualty Insurnnce Company of
Philadelphia It is nsktd that the olncers of
the company be retpilred to show cause
why tlie company should not be cither dis
solved or its nffairs run by the Insurance
Departmont In the interests of the stock-'
holders. The rule is made returnable be
fore Judge McCarrell November 29.
It. C. Bowers is president and Thomas
Wood is secretary of the company,
BUI SALAH1HS TO WOOD
Commissioner O'Nell wiya that I IX
Wood, head of the Pension Mutual, has.
hoc n paying )nnt enormous salaries for
what O'Nell regards as very doubtful serv
ices. For Instance, O'Ncil says. Wood has
paid himself $UCU0 a year from the funds
of the Pension Mutual and $7500 from the
funds of the Union- Casualty Insurance
Company, for which a receiver was asked
In Harrisburg, and the commissioner says
he Intended to have a salary from the
American Assurance Company of $20,000
a year,
"Certainly no one coujd accufce Wood of
being a piker," observed Mr, O'Nell. "
Tho exaniluer, It Is said, also discovered '
THIS PORT CHOSEN FOR SEVEN HUGE TANKERS
Philadelphia will be the homo port of the seven tnnksblps which aro belnrr
built for the Atlantic Refining Company for foreign service, Kach tanker will coHt
. 4 AAA ft A A V t. r nl,.l.l mnrlna ullllAflrtt Anilnnt tnr 4 llM (nmnDnu
room OJ mo l"nvtL vti ivruio- r -'"-- rurlnir for th nntUnt iIha. I av least fl(vvv,vvv. ouocuu , uuuhci, umwuv 0r""'" --" " -rwi
'dP VMn i LMWural W. arrivai at Z ho.ptut !" P ' ' ' ' announced that hU corporation Intended to make this port a shipping center.
t . 9
that Wood was paying John C, ilcll
counsel or for other services $7500 a year
from the Union Catualty Insurance Jon
pany and that one or two others got a Ilk
sum, .
"Mr. O'Nell made no such stalcine,"
tSJ?
t.
o,.
