1 . M d ..4' , . A
~jJN-low#~ is' Nt h~
1's Hw* hnW bw sw
new of the. ay. is D[1u T
NO. 3680. WRAr ULt ra COLD. WASRINGON.' D. Q.- EDNEIRY, NOVEMBER 15, 1916. ONE Cc"0
BRITISH FORCES
TAKE BEAUCOURT
Capture 'Third Village In
Ancre Battle.
fay the ltereatlenai News Servise.)
London. Nov.. it.-Without allowing the
Germans a moment's pause to recuperate
from the sudden thrust in the valley of
the Anere before dawn yesterday, the
British during-the last twenty-four hours
truck blow after blow on this new bat
tiefield, adjoining that of the 5eMM.
In the ferocity of the attacks, as well
as in the measure of sooesm already
soored, the battle now under way astride
the .Ance brook bids fair to rival, If
not outdo, the great Somme combat.
Capture of thejllage of Baucourt was
the outstanding esuit of todays fight
Ing. Having flung his claws into the
western outskirts of this hiMlet-eMall,
but a strategic value-in yesterday's in
Itial ourush. the British lion throughout
today pounded his way deeper and deeper
into the German defenses. until with the
a~proach of dusk the Teuton commander
withdrew the last remaning scattered de
fenders.
Besocourt-Sur-Ancre Is the third vil
lage to fall into British hands since yes
terday morning. The leow of the two
others. Beaumont-Hamil and St. Pierre
Divion, was admited by the Berlin war
office this afternoon.
Take, 5.00 Priseners.
"Consiaderably more than 5,O prison
ers" the British hisi cemmand reported
tonight. "have been taken since the
Ancre battle ;ean." A rain the state
nent adds: n
"More are -:oming in.
The next twenty-four ;ouw are ex
pected to develop the supreme test on
this front., for by tomorrow the Gerrrans
are expected to have rwshed suflicient
reinforcements to this originally thin line
to put up a more stubborn defense.
in conceding the loss of Beaumont
Ilamel and St Pierre Divion, the Ger
man official report said that theseewo
viliages were rold at "considerable secri
lces" to the British. A significant ad
mission, however, is added in the follow
inc passage: t
Objectives Giaied.
tenacious defense caused us eon
siderable losses."
The day brought the British also a l0
,al success east of Butte de Warlencourt.
where in the words of the midnight re
rort. ''practicaily all of our objectives
were gained." and some eighty prisoners
were taken.
The extent of the British success, the
force of their attacking momentum. is
shown by the fact that the afternoon re
ort claimed "over 4.00ff' prisoners, while
th midnight statement recnrds the cap-k
tIm of "considerably or ;.000." Thisj
means an addition of more than a thou
rand prisoners In the afternoorn and early
evening.
On the Franco-German front the day
was comonarativelv calm. The Paris nights
SonrnuniIne reports the occupation of a
mine -rat-r In the Argonne and violent
.erman -P nnading against Pressoire
and the 1'I, hes and La Maisonette farm
mectors. south of the Somme.
Gun duels continue to rage east of the
.izse, on the Verdun front.
DAYliGHT SAVING HOVE
TO GO BEFORE A. F. OF LID
Gompers Starts Ball Rolling by
Referring Request.
fay the laternatieal News Service,)
Baltimore, Md.. Nov. I.-The "daylight
-a Ing" movement-the movement which
has been sent to this country from ]u
rope, with the idea of getting people to
set the clock back an hour or two hours
.r.d tms "save an hour of daylight." will
he taken up for discussion by the lAmer
iran Federation of Labor before the con
vention of that body closes in Baltimore.
That organised labor would take up this
matter, which would- affect, more than
any other class of people, the laboring
man. became assured today when Presl.
dent Gompers oflicially referred to a com
mittee a request for consideration which
had been sent to him. This request came
from Marcus M. Marks. president of the
Borough of Manhattan, N. Y., who is
:ending the movement in this country.
Slowly but surely the labor men are
getting down to real business and today
raw a big step toward the end. The
fraternal delegates were heard from, all
"f the resolutions which will be acted
on at this convention were handed in.
,ommittees were busy organizing and the
elaborate program of entertainment was
-tarted.
EMA ) AMERTCANS' RIT.ARE
i1 Paso. Tex., Nov. 14.-A peremptory
dernandI for the release of three Amert
cans held in the Juares jail was made
upon the Carransa authorities this after
noon by the American State Department
through agents here.
The three Americans held at Juares are
Joseph Williams. Benjamin Brahn, and
William Ibis. The Stjte Department also
demanded the reieape of Albert Harold,
an American held a Cbibuahua City.
Ibis, an American. was arrested by Car
ransa authorities at Juares today charged
MEN with declaring that the garrison of that
city could he bought by any one who had
2105. Jle is threatened with execution.
. AY ASK U. S. TO PROTMr.
,-aLondon. Nov. 14--A Rtome dispeteb to
the Chronicle teqay intimates that rep-1
reentations may be made to the United
ftates, possibly- by the Vaticam. to have:
that country protest against the deper-1
tation of Belgian workmen by Germany.
Albany, N. Y., Nov.1-Canih
Canal heatmen will haVe their weepiant
granted and may nevigate there after the
ofetal date set for closing the eana's of1
the State on November 3. The 14erth
era ranalers mst however. do this at
their own risk and are ' warmed to be,
careful not to get fremen In, and that ne.
boats will be allowed to winter in the
. l ocks.
r er war trade. stete in theionmei
of einmn this afternoon that the us,
eegmtwtf seem appeint a new mm.
bqr et the Britih-Ainethe ,Smage
ima..msamma s....aam a..=
"GATE"F 1O AMU
Hughes and T. R. Leadrs t<
Gov. Johnwn*.
(oy the Ints"Ntisal News ervis&.
New York, Nov. 14.-Hiram W. John
son has been eliminated as a 192
Presidential possibility by both Hugbe
&ad Roosevelt devotees, according t
authoritative information at Repub
liean headquarters.
When-returns indicated today the
the Golen State governor had an
need about 200,000 plurality to
United States Sengtor and Hughes ha
run behind him at least 3,600 more
both Hughes and Roosevelt manager
agreed that they would try to mak
him an impossibility for head of th
national ticket four years honen
Hughes' leaders charged Johnson wit
treachery to their Presidential candi
date. Roosevelt leaders declare
Johnson Isoin the Colonel's way as
must be "'l... - . I If the Colonel I
to be the next united Republian
Progressive nominee.
- Vengeance upon Johnson was vo 0
even while rumors were in circulatio1
that the chopping off of a cipher fror
a 7.000 plurality for Hughes had s
changed the returns that there ws
yet a chance teat the Republican can
didate would appropriate California
electoral vote.
In the midst of incessant teippho4
inquiries from Wall Street and IN
litical. headquarters nation-wide as t
whether the 6.300 error had actuall
been discovered. National Chairma
Willcox said:
"It Is untrue that Mr. Hughes eve
declined to meet Gov. Johnson."
"KISS OF LOVE" STORY
TO BE DENIED IN COINI
Mother and Sister of Slain Womai
Will Help State.
St. Joseph. Mo.. Nov. 14.-Two rela
tives of Mrs. Harriet Moss McDanie
mysteriously assassinated in her hom
will testify for the prosecution in th
murder trial of her husband, Oscar I
McDaniel, prosecuting attorney of Bu
chanan County, it was announced to
day.
They are Mra. Luke H. Moss and he
daughter. Miss Aileen. mother and als
ter of the dead woman. They clung I
Prosecutor McDaniel. in his protests
tions that he was innocent of wif
murder during the first trial, but hav
changed their attitude.
Both will testify that the McDanit
home life was not harmonious, com
bating the prosecutor's statement the
he loved his wife and left her on th
night of the mnuder, with 'a kiss. rie
with love. It was believed that th
jury would be completed today.
"Stil"LEADERS' PLAN
CAMPAION FOR 19I1
Not Cast Down by Defeat in Two Bi
States.
(By the Intersatioeal News serviee.
Chicago, Nov. 14.-Defeat of votes fa
women in South Dakota and West Vir
ginia. the only States that voted on ouf
frage at last Tuesday's election, has b
no means discouraged suffrage leader
who already are beginning to plan thei
1917 campaign.
In West Virginia the proposal wa
voted down by an overwhelming majorit3
In South Dakota the suffrage cause Io
by only about 3.000 votes out of pior
than 40,00 cast.
Western suffrage leaders who have bee
in close touch with campaigns in bot
States today attributed the defeats t
two factors. One was he lack of prope
organization in advance of the campaig
and the other, suggested particularly b
Democratic women, was the attack mad
by the woman's party on President WIl
son during the campaign.
A conference of national suffrage lead
era probably will be held soon to ma
out the 1917 campaign.
BORDER SMUGGLERS HELD.
San Antonio, Tex.. Nov. 14-Gonasle
and Cerviano Flores. brothers, were as
rested by Federal agents early tqday a
they were preparing to cross the borde
into Mexico near Eagle Pass with 0.01
rounds of ammunition.
At the same time Leopold Sanche, a
alleged Carransa agent, was taken Int
custody here. It is charged he bougt
100,000 rounds of cartridges and wa
using the Flores brothers as his agenti
DENY SHELIMG CATRDEAL,
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Nov. 14.
A statement issued through the Oversee
News Agency today denies that the Go
mans have shelled Rheims Cathedral a
a measure of rqprsal against the Preact
Information now at hapd shows that. I
retaliation for the bombardment of town
bombarded by the French, the, German
have shelled Frerch batteries stations
south of Rheims.
GEEMNS 13EE AuMmRIaiN
Amsterdamn, Nov. 14.-The German go'
erumeat today released several American
who were detained after being taken fru.
the Dutch ma'.l staanship Kosanng
Rlegentes. A German subamarine held a
the vesl and took It Into Seebragge Ia.
week. The Amnericans were psaitted t
return to Holland.
20LEB TO HOLD ELECmmR
Amasterdam, Nov, 14-The Gerna s
therities in Poland have deciag esgs
an election in order to give the -os
et the world's hoeet kigd ga
portulty to particigete in the gower
asst, ears a sm-aa ftrn 15mgw I.
et
M ~ ided' a put ~
.Iag with as iiam ~ -
bie mt.m ma -en qne
RUSS LOAN READY
Cfedit of $50,000,000 Wil
Run for Five Years.
(my the altsematiemal News Beevim)
New York. Nov. 14.-Local bankers tO
aday conchuded details of the new UDs.
en Russian government loan. which wl
bear Interest of five and one-belf per
cent ad run for five years. The loan In
unsecured except for the redt of the
Russian government..
A syndicate formed to underwrite the
securities, consists of the National City
Company, J. P. Morgan & Co., Guaranty
Trust Company. Lee, Higgison$s; Com
pany. and Harris, Forbes & Company.
The latter takes the place of Kidder,
Peabody & Company, which was in the
first syndicate form .
A dealers' -syndiate will be formed
next Monday and will Include bond deal
era from all parts of the United States.
The bonds will be offered early next
week on a basis to yield more than six
and one-half per cent. The loan will also
be offered in a manner similar to that
employed by -the bankers who floated the
00,000.000 City of Paris iopn. In that
instance. $21)00000 of the bonds were
alloted to the syndicate members with an
option of $0.000.0) additional. In the
case of the Russian offering, however.
It is expected that the syndicate mem
bers will be alloted $25.000,010 with an
option on $5.00.00) additional. The bonds
are payable in dollars, but will be paid in
roubles if desired by the holders of the
security.
BRIDE OF 4 MONTHS
VICTIM OF JEALOUSY
Woman Charged With Slaying Girl
For Revenge.
4 By the Internatieal News eeSrvie.)
Philadelphia. Nov. It.-Mrs. Mary Bles
Nchefska. X years of age, was today placed
under arrest charged with the murder
of one of her boarders at her house In
Port Richmond. a suburb.
Following the exhuming and finding of
arensic poisoning in the body of Mrs.
Sofia Rojewski. a '1-year-old bride of
four months, the coroner ordered the ar
rest of the accused woman and later in
the day a man whose name the police
will not yet disclose, was placed under
arrest on the suspicion of knowing some
thing about the case
The husband of the dead woman had
lived at the house for a year before his
marriage last July and friends of the
ma are alleged to have told a coroner's
detective of the jealousy aroused in his
rdlng mistress over his marriage. The
uccused woman has a husband, and three
children. the youngest 16 n"saths old.
FASlIONABLE WON
CAIUGHiT IN DRUG RAID
Twenty-three Fall Into Net in Exclu
sive Back Bay District.
(By the Internatiomal News Serviceb
Boston. Nov. I-In a sensational raid
on several houses In the fashionable
Back Bay section early today the police
took into custody twenty-three women.
all declared to be residents of that colony.
No charges were made against the
women. but it was alleged by the au
thorities that they were obtaining nar
cotic drugs.
Dr. Elliott D. Robbins, dean of the Bos
ton School of Anatomy* and Vmbaming.
was arrested on a charge of Illegally dis
pensing drugs. The names of the women
held were not divulgea by Ihe police.
Scenes of the wildest couson follow
ed when the police broke into the houses.
Many fashionably-gowned women fainted
and some of them tried to flee througn
the streets.
COLUNBIAN RIC=E HAZARDOUS.
Paris. Nov. 14.-A representative of the
United States Embassy in Madrid is ex
pected at Corunna, Spain. to take deposi
tions from the American seamen on the
United States steamship Cohmbian, which
was sunk by a German submarine, says
a dispatch from that city today.
Capt. Frederick Curtis. of the Colum
bian. said "the Colunbian was warned.
but the trip of the sailors to the Spanish
coast in opeft boats was accompanied by
great hazards."
BAVARTAJ VILLAGE 30MUD.
Berlin (via Sayville wireless). Nov. 14.
French seroplaaei carried out an attack
on the village of Dillingen (Bavaria) on
the night of November 11. wounding six
persons, It was officially announced to
day. The property damage was trivial,
according to the war office.
The attack was conducted in a dense
fog, and through this the enemy airmen
were enabled to make their escape.
MTMOCAL SURE OF VICTORY:
Havana. Cuba. Nov. 1L-While it Is
practically assured today President Meno
cal has beer-re-elected. official announce
ment is being withheld until the last vote
is counted. This is at President Menocal's
order, as he wishee to give the IJhsmJs
no opportunity to provide a contest. The
city Is quiet.
BOY ON TenZ o n.*uxmz.
Twin Falls, Idaho. Nov. I4.-Biven
year-od Lynn Lovelace wa placed gn
trial today charged with the murder of
F.a Thomas Hamn~nl a seol teacher. The
boy and his brother 'Iareld, 12, age said
to have shot DamnS when he caught
them robbiag a ranh heuse. Harold
is on trial as an aceinry.
GEAN Imamma 1101.
London, NOv. IL-A Norve torped.
beat has adi upon a, Germ asaer,
which refused to stpu a pe ta
vasser, says a Cs mma e to-,
M. The d ~ ~ isthe infor
sedlemn o th Mem bst.
lader the ship was bemadas and a. wtre
CRUELTY CHARGED
District's Wardc Fligged Vith
Hose, Chamber Hea
Boys from 12 to 17 of age at the
National Train boot are brutaly
fogged with -foot rubber house. a-I
cording a statement made last night
by Dr. Lewis .. Battle at a meeting of
the Chamber of Commerce. Dr. Battle
declared that he had made a personal in
veetgeion of the charge, which was sub
stantiated by a letter from the preddent
of the schoA to t14 4ommissioners.
The letter. which was signed by William
N. uhaster. says in part: "Many years
ago the use of a strap was forbidden in
the school, whereupon the circular rubber
hose was substituted."
Dr. Battle. in continuing his remarks,
said:
"The circular rubber home which I I
spected no later than yesterbay is about
three feet In length and about half an
inch thick. It Is made of heavy tough
rubber. and In my mind it is an imtru
ment of torture. such punishment being
to my mind a relic of barbarism."
John P. Heath, for eleven yar. secre
tary of the Humane Socwty. said:
"If such measures were inflicted upon
horses in this city the offender would be
arrested And either fined or sent to the
workhouse. If this be the penalty for
cruelty to dumb animals. it should be
CONTIN"ED ON PAGE TWO.
MERCURY DROP BREAKS
BACKBONE OF AUTUMN
Zero Weather and Snow Storm Hit
Country.
Autumna's backbone was brakes yes
terday.
The cold weather on the Pacigle Coast
and mountain region has started its east
erly pilgrimage and yesterday spread a
six-inch layer of snow over Central New
Yorlp State and freezing temperatures
were reported from as far south as cen
tral Alabama and Mississippi.
North Platte,^eb.. comes forward with
the lowest temperature. 4 degrees below
zero. El Paso reports 22 above and Den
ver. 6 above. Des Moines. Iowa. and Du
luth. Mia.. report 4 above. The low
st temperature for Washington last night
was 54 above.
Chicago reports the first death from
freezing. The body of K. A. Davieon.
60. was found on a vacant lot where he
had frosmen to death.
The weather sharps see no mow fsr
Washington In the near ture.
All the aisembers of the local police
force doanse thsir overLuats yesterday.
SELLSPRETTY WIE;
SLAIN BY PURCHASER
Failure to Make Prompt Payment Re
suits in Shooting.
(BY the International News service.)
St. Louis. No.. Nov. 14-A strange pact
by which William F. Hussman sold his
pretty wife to a man ten years his
Junior ended fatally today when Ralph
H. Shotwell. the purchaser, shot Huss
man through the heart.
The deal was arranged a week ago.
Shotwell promised to pay 350 for Mrs.
Hussman within a week, and she. ac
quiescing in the sale, promised to pay
party of the money herself.
Convinced that Shotwell was trying to
evade payment. Hussman went to him
home today, and after an argument drew
a revolver. His weapon failed to dis
charge and Shotwelt killed him. An ex
amination showed that the main spring
had been removed from the elder man's
revolver.
U-BOAT TOLL NOUNTING.
Confidential adyices received in
Washington reveal thaY during the
Past two weeks more ships and a
greater amount of tonnage has been
destroyed by German and Austrian
submarines than in the preceding
three months.
It was learned that the loss of life
aia has been considerable, although
provision was made in all cases where
the vessels attacked did not resist for
the safety of crews and passengers.
1Ag SUEX*RAI BLOWS UP.
,Kobe, Japan. Nov. 14.-Two seamen
were killed and six officers and eight
sailors were wounded by an explosion
which destroyed the Japapsee submarine
No. 4 today. The accident occurred while
the submarine was returning from the
launching of the su -Dreadnought iso.
DOILE BLAST KILlS 'OUM.
Hainesbury. N. J.. Nov. 14-Four men
were killed here today when the boiler of
a Lackawanna locomotive exploded. Tie
men were working oikthe engine. Only
two of the bodies be been identlind
Patrick Gallagher and Thomas Reap,
both of Scranton. Pa.
106 AW1E 'PLAZU LOUT.
Berlin. via Saywiise wtreles. Nov. 14.
I~uring October's fighting the allies fight
ing on the western, eistern and Balkan
fronts lost 10i aeropisnes, the German
war en~oe amouced todaV a a geberal
review of operatihin. .h Gema
lost 17.
'riram KNOWN DEAD E W3ECE.
Evaavifle, IzG.,iNo. M.-i26ree per.
s are knon to have been laursed in
a bead-en aeidn en the 3eesand
Uearn Tractiun ILsa, sear Taaheetswu.
fifty tile. freumsbere. tie a*trme.. A
passer wEe eawted eut et tahe irreek
telephemed a lilorbeh iler alM. atmhg
that dMh psas Wee. ita
Gr~ad *nsU.ele.8M. in-t
-eeeWS- nR a ~e.
ArW S&Pb .' M . r
essaer et a .Now Yask ganget - rl
b uer smeTstsi es.'e yas y
-a
I WPWES
1 PUCE BOSTERS
Presideit Assails Men Re
sponsible-for High Costs.
5 -
Presidest Wilson while procialming a
new agriculture for America in a speech
before the' NtiCmal Grange ;adt night.,
t assailed the men responsible fo the in
. dlation of food prices. lie said: "We
r ought to raise such big crops that cir.
cumstances like the present can never re
cur, when men can make as if the supply
s was so short that the middleman could
9 charge for it what he pleased. It will
s not do to be niggardly with the world
1 In respect of Its food supply."
The 'President studiously avoided
- politics and foreign affairs, his only ref
erence to the latter being: "I wish for
I eign afaIr were as simple as agrfcul
a ture."
-, Nati.ng CaM Lears,
President Wilson told tne grange that
"some of the most Interesting problenvi
a of our life and -of the life of the world
lie before us." lie urged that agricul
a ture be concerted from an occupation to
. a systematic business. "lvei-y nation in
f! fe world, the President asserted.
"ought to come to us to 1rn,11 hov to
raise crops."
The President's speech follows:
"I And It a very agreeable function to
act as semi-ofilcial host to interesting
a bodies like this when they assemble in
Washington, and I was particularly
r gratified when I learned that the Na
tional Orange was to celebrate Its fiftieth
anniversary in Washington. Being some
what older than the grange. I congra
late it as an older brothea
"Not only that, but it seems to me
that some of the most interesting
problems of our life and of the life
of the world lie before us, problems
in connection' with which the farmers
of the United States will play a part
such as they never have played before.
I "It goes without saying that the
physical life of the nation has always
depended upon the farm. It goes with
lout saying, also, that to a large extent
- 'the physical life of the world has
drawn its sustenance from the great
areas of farmland In the United States.
e We have sent food to all parts of the
o.'world, and the American farmer has
- contributed to the life of all the coun
- tries of the world. But you know
that as our population has Increased
r the proportion In which we could help
- foreign countries as contrasted with
o our own, has decreased, and there are
- problems that are comparable with
e problems of statesmanship lying ahead
* of the farmers of the United Statea.
Neientists Interested.
- "I have been very much interested
t in conferring with the Secretary st
Agriculture to.fin4 that although the
laboratory and the investigations of
. the men of science who were not di
rectly concerned with the farm have a
great deal to do with the promotion
of agriculture in the United States
as elsewhere. what has had still more
to do with it has been the intelligent
farming of the individual farmer.
SURE OF SPEAKERSHIP,
ASSERTS CHAMP CLARK
) House Leader Confident Democrats
Will Hold Reins.
"I expect to be elected Speaker of the
next House by a majority of at least
r three votes,"
This was the prediction made yesterday
afternoon by Champ Clark. Speaker of
the House of Representatives. Mr. Clark
has just returned from .Missouri. His
e statement, expressed with such convic
tion, was maderafter a conference with
k Chairman Doremus of the Democratic
Congressional Committee.
"Mr. Doremus tells me." continued the
r Speaker. "that the Democrats have elect
led 212 members beyond doubt and the
V Republicans can lay claim to no more
0 than 211. There are six districts where
the Republicans claim the election, but
where the vote is so c6se that the ofil
cial count will be required.
P "Unofficial advices to our committee
indicated that we have carried each of
these districts. They are those of Steele,
in Iowa: Tavenner, in Illinols; Scully, in
New Jersey; Weaver, in North Carolina;
a Martin. in Louisiana, and Beakis, in
, Michigan. Two of the small group'of
independents will vote with the Demo
r crats and other gains will gi us the
control of the House with absolute cer
tainty."
tLOYE SEALS HERLUPS
ON BLACKMAIL STORY
Alleged "Borrowings" of Clicago
Woman Due to Mn's Supidity.
U
(By the Imternatlemal New. Seri&em)
Chicago. Nov. It.-MIss Anna E. Sharp
e ley came back to' Chicago todat in an
g effort to heIp, unravel her tangled finan
cial affairs. Weeping bitterly, the woman,
who is alleged to have borrowed =I.GO
from new friends witigat msnits7 laid
bare her past life In a mart to show
that she had been driven to doubtful
business dealings in ceder to entidy do
5 eminds of a blackmnailer.
5 The confession also cgne frogm her lipa
5 that she is the wospan who ini Ph~ l
P -pi sad. New Yorkc wans s6 to
t prise foe' rwaing' toney, Or4Siu,
a"Not a aent have I proed freqa all bf
It," she sobbed. "He took it all and
demnanded more and still more. He knew
the secret of a girlish indiscrteisand he
made .me pay dearly. He is dead now
and not for worids wouldl I. reveaJ his
nass and risk haigmy story made
* public. For in steof what he' dGa, i
love hiin atifl."
. Tu d EIB ARTEWSK
menceament wain ade today that.b
oaetln ed George ath;
eewI b sa as - ~
Gm~,MN~ehon
ena * portrait er
SSo NEUTMAUTY
BRMSH PREMIER
Reply to Protest of Blacklist
Policy Flat Rejection of
Contentions.
TONE NOT CONCIMATORY
State Department Neuled by Attitud.
of Viscount Grey--Amower
Lkely.
The British reply to the American
protest against England's bla4list
policy, delivered by the London for
eign office on October to and held
secret by the State Department, was
made public last night.
The reply is a flat rejection of all
the American contentions.
Some features of the note are ex
pected to draw a reply from this
government. One is a charge against
the neutrality of the United States.
Viscount Grey declared that "German
business establishments in foreign
countries have been . . . activ e
agents . . . for the purpose of
espionage." He alleged that they had
been bases of supply for German
warships and paymasters of miscre
ants employed to destroy by foul
means factories engaged in m-aking
or ships engaged in carrying, sup
plies required by the allies.
C"Itilesse U. a. Goverment.
He added:
"I am bound to observe. what I do
not think will be denied. that no ade
quate action has yet been- taken by
the government of the LTnited States
to suppress breaches of nentrality of
this particularly criminal kind. which
I know they are the first to discounte
nance and deplore."
The State Department is expected to
remind Great Britain that the admin
istration of the neutrality laws of the
United States permits of no eritielen
from a belligerent power. If there
were any real basis for the charge, it
was indicated. Great Britain long age
would have made the matter a subject
of strenuous diplomatic protest. Bg.
cestim also was taken a the &eate
Department to what was izaeteriasd
as an obvi~e effort by Vllceunt Grey
to revive in his note the submarine
controversy between this country and
Germany. He declared ten British
merchant vessels had been sunk with
out warning. involving loss of life. and
added: "Probably other vessets were
sunk without warning."
The note was not regarded as con
eiliatory.
There was an intimation at the de
partment that should England apply
the blacklist with due regard for the
right of cittsens of this country. the
chances of the dispute becoming crit
ieal would be diminished. It was re
garded as likely that the department
would await evidence of British In
tentions, in the further application of
the blacklist policy, before either re
plying to the note or notifying Preal
dent Wilson of the exhaustion of
diplomatic resources in an effort to
secure respect for American rights.
View of state Department.
State Department critics said the evi
dent object of the note was to reveal to
the State Department the British goe
ernment's annoyance, and at the same
time to hint that the American govern
ment might get practically what it asked.
The following passage at the concluion
of the note caused surprise: "Suspideas
and insinuations which would construe so
simple an action (the blacklist) an open
ing for secret and unavowed designs oa
neutral rights abouid have no place In the
relation between two friendly ceuti.a"
Ofidals said it disclosed a feeling of
resentment in the British government not
so markedly exhibited before. It con
tained a hint. they thought, of possible
disturbance of the friendly relations be
tween the two countries If such "auspi
cions" and "insinuations" continued.
HEROINE UNDER ARREaT.
Women Who Battled With Rebbers
Charged With 1tert.
Chicago. Nov. l.-Mrs. "Margaret Ver
valin." who saved her firn's money by
bravely battling sith a bandit, was un
der arrest today on the charge of em
bezzling $4.'1 . lier employers soore out
th- warrant reluctantly. Though at
taeked and beaten over the head 1wit
a revolver. she had continu-d to light t h
robber until he lied.
The police heard today that Vervalin
was not her real name. -Her husband, it
was understood. had failed in business
and she had taken upon her shoulders
the financial burdens of the family. using
an assumed name.
IRV=i sM PANENGERS.
New Yos'k. Nov. 14.--The Scandinavian
liner Helig Ora, arriving today, reported
that British authoritlee at Kirkerall re
moved two passentgers and all the iasett
before allowing the -ese to pruceed.
The reameeru taken off were Conrut
Stfanowski. a Rums=an.sd Christian
Paramar, a Dane. No reason was given
for thsir removal. Cat. Hdelsss.
USED NAY I0 'N WaM.
Ottawa. Out.. Res. 14.-aMsJ. Gee. Mr
Brmel Hiee. whs resie yesteada
as Cna.am...tnsr of nitand ds
lamme, Anela=d today that etsde
vote all his futuele emorgue to h.lpsg
the reerukting inevoment. e i
mqiter wU nesk a eem nas es
servie sad go to the lrats. Ho ee
house in a Meer w.
ien is usey b p sm a destse se
tn the state -et asehe mesm n tee
task, ese of the aq
10s ae~ a en~te Use
-e - * U
BCE'SHOP EARLY'
letail Merchants Take Trol
ley Trip to Laurel, Md.
"Shop early and mail and express
arly for Christmas." I
That was the cry of the Retail Mer
hanth Association board of governors
0s they journeyed out of Washington
'gain yesterday for a tour over. An
other of the lines of the Washington
tailway and Electric Company on the
alatial parlor car Columbia.
It wa the second day of the early
grlstmas-trade boosting, and will
inger long In the memory of those
rho took part.
Laurel. Md., was the objective point
'esterday afternoo'n. Gaining experi
nce, from the previous day's trolley
ravel the representatives of the Re
all Merchants' Association stopped at
Lit the stations along the line of the
Washington-Laurel line and distrib
ated matter calling the gattention of
he residents to the timeliness of the
1hristmas shopping season, with the
soliday season less than six weeks
6way.
Experienced in the handling of ad
rertising matter, the Christmas-trade
moosters made visits to the homes and
esidences along the trolley lines and
eft messages of the importance of
hopping now for the ^Christmas needs.
rhen stocks are at their very best. A
all was made at a church festival at
lerywn. Md.. and at every other con
elvable point where folk might be ox
CONTNUED ON PAGg TWO.
EARCH IN BLIZZARD
FOR LOST iRAIN MAN
.one Hunter Believed Lost in North
ern Minnesota Woods.
By the lateraatieual News servies.)
Chicago, Nov. 14.-flundreds of persons
oday are searching the blizzard-ridden
roods in the vicinity of Ely, Minn., for
forace E. Jackson. grain authority anf
memberr of the Chicago Board of Trade.
rho has been lost for four days.
Jackson started out on a hunt Friday
nd when he did not return efforts to find
uIm failed because the heavy snow of
aturday obliterated his trail through the
inderbrush. A reward of $1.000 is offered
or his discovery and every searcher is
o be paid $10.
With the hunting season but two days
ld. four deaths have been reported from
he north woods. Three deer hunters
rere found shot in the Wisconsin woods
nd Charles Pronek, 16. mounting guard
a a stump while his father busted near
ry, fell off, and was ailled by his own
ifle. near Andgo. Wis.
NERMAN CIVIL FORCES
NEXT TO BE IMOBILIZED
9ew Move Expected to Release More
Men for Front.
By WILIAM BAYARnD HALE.
(ilaternatiosl News Service.)
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Nov. 13
'delayed).-Very significant of the Ger
'nan "Will to win" is the determination
nade known today to mobilize the civil
'orces of the empire in collaboration with
:he armies at the front.
A new department has been created to be
known as the "war bureau," distinct from
the war ministry. under the direction of
3en. Groener, with jurisdiction to sumn
non the civil forces of the empire in re
mforcement of the military.
Legislation Is now in preparation. It
sill be drafted in the umndesrat and
probably confirmed by the Relhstag at
in early special session.
England months ago undertook a sim
liar procedure. While particulars are
acking, and also, indeed, not yet con
lirmed, it is probable that the German
scheme will mobilise on a vast scale the
man power and the female energy of the
!mpire in support of the armies at the
front.
BLOODHOUNDS TO TRAIL HUNTER
Ttica. N. Y.. Nov. 14.-Two blood
bounds and their cwner were loaded into
in auto here today and started in a driv
Ing snow~torm for Piseco Lake, in the
Adirondacks, ninety miles away. to help
In the search for Carleton Banker, of
Sloversxflle. who has been lost in 'the
rilderness since last Friday. Mr. Banker
is superintendent of the Cayadutta di
vision of the Fonda, Johnstown -and
3loversvltle Railroad.
TELLS TALE OF SUFFERING.
New York. Nov. 14.-Harrowing tales of
the suffering of the railroad switchmen
luring the excessively cold winter months
were told today to the Federal Board of
Arbitration which is endeavoring to
throw light on the eight-hour law, by S.
D. Reid. a Baltimore & Ohio switchman.
"I have seen switchmen endure most
terrible suffering during the winter
months." he' told the board. "I have men
them at work with icicles hanging- from
heir eyebrows and their hands and feet"
INDIA1 AFFAIBS EZFET DIEB,
New York. Nov. 16.-Robert G2. 'Valen
:Ine. of Drintree, Main. expert on In
Dian maffir, died of heart disease at the
Sotel Mahattan early today. He lad
mme stricken a short time before while
"atjg -a dinner at Delmonico's,
Chicago, Nov. I1--Helen Hasba, .t'
months old, is dead today becas the
oving Sands- et Ottil. her six-year-cad
lister. .enht to he haer warm by plae
ng a lighted ema~ in the wrib beside
ese. The bed ciothing aut b and
he baby was birned to death.
New Yerk. Xe,. L-A.t .a ;we,
maa pamsed to be ungieded ased a
'eemtion et election betting e the
esb at so.. Wegers we i that
1ea wead he elstled. ibsr
bet Oilrer la emhm
