Wee
journal- Miner
KLY
PIONEER PAPER OF ARIZONA
PRESCOTT JOURNAL-MINER, WEDNESDAY MORNING. NOVEMBER 15, 1916.
FIFTY-THIRD YEAR
GEK! )0f PAPERS
T
Lil i
SUBJECT TO
ROOPS CO
Important Dispatches Id Packet From
Which Letters Were Taken And
Used To Blackmail Countess.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. The German embassy lias reason
to believe tliat a number of highly confidential dispatches at pres
ent missing, were in the packet from which Karl Armgaard Graves
extracted the letters which he is charged with having used in an
alleged attempt to obtain $3,000 from Countess von Bcrnstorff,
wife of the German ambassador.
The nature of the dispatches is unknown. The -German gov
ernment has been sent all available information regarding the
packet's contents and investigation, it is said, will immediately be
made in Berlin with a view of ascertaining what, if any, secret
papers are missing, as well as the identity of the messenger from
whom Graves secured the letters.
It was learned today that the packet, from which Graves ob
tained the letters addressed to Countess von Bernstorff, had been
officially sealed by the German foreign office. The letters which
have, so far, been seen by embassy officials, arc dated early in
September.
MNM ILL BE SLAYER OF TW 0
NEXT SPEAKER IS BROUGHT
OF HOUSE TO TRIAL
FRESENT MINORITY LEAD
ER WILL STEP INTO
PLACE NOW OCCUPIED
BY CHAMP CLARK.
YOUTH WHO IS ALLEGED
TO HAVE KILLED MAN
AND WOMAN TO BE TRIED
AT HILLSBORO, N. M.
1
METHODIST EPISCOPAL
CLERGYMEN SAY GUARDS
MEN SHOULD ATTEND
CHURCH REGULARLY.
By Associated Press.
NEW YORK, Nov. 13. Conditions
among American troops on the Mcxi
can border was subject to criticism in
a meeting of clergymen which preced
ed the opening of the board of mis
sions of the Methodist-Episcopal
church. Dr. S. P. Carman, of Brook
lyn, who went to the border as chap
lain for the Twenty-third New York
companv; said: "The conditions are
such now that one of gentlemanly
calling is unwilling to take the chap
Iain's position. There should be :
higher standard of chaplains in the
army. The weekly attendance by sol
diers should be a matter of discipline
in the army regulations."
WEATHER FORECAST
For Arizona: Fair; continued cold,
Will Release Two
Men Held as Spies
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. Mcin-I ALBUQUERQUE, Nov. 13. J. A.
bcrs of the house of representatives in Houchin, 20 years old, charged with
the newly elected Fifty-sixth congress : murdering a man named Hamilton
face one of the most uncertain organ- and Madame Swazee, fortune teller,
ization situations in the history of the near Palomas, Sierra county, a year
government. ago, will go to trial tomorrow at
With a few districts still in doubt, Hillsboro. It was not known here
the Republicans appear to have a plu-1 whether lie would be tried first on the
rality of four or five members and a ! charge of murdering the man or that
possible majority of two or three, j based on the killing of the woman, or
when it is figured out that an indc- j IotIi at the same time,
pendent elected in Massachusetts and j Houchin has been held in the State
a Progressive elected in Minnesota j penitentiary at Santa Fc for safc
probably will vote with them for or- keeping. Deputy Sheriff H. A. Barry,
ganization purposes. Independence f Sierra county, passed through Al
of action has characterized a number j buqucrquc last night, taking the young
of the re-elected members on the Re-j '"an to Hillsboro. Thomas N. Ho
publican side, however, and their atti- Ban left with Deputy 'Sheriff Barry as
tude toward Democratic legislation special guard.
in the last few years has given Demo- j The young man was arrested at
cratic leaders cause for hope that : Beaumont, Texas, some time after the
some of them might carry their indc-1 finding of the dead bodies of Hamil
nendence into the organization of the ' ton and Madame Swazee. He admits
i killing Hamilton, said Deputy Sheriff
Barry, saying that he shot him as he
I slept. He said he did not know any
' thing about the death of the woman,
!it was said. According to Barry, bc-
' . ernftn l trwi .!-!. n
matcriallv alter the general result. In wu J,m
view of that. Democratic leaders re-;;110" was lved to have, was miss-
gard it improbable that President j
Wilson will call an extra session otijj
the new congress next Spring, llien,
next house.
No Extra Session Likely.
While there might be a few changes
when the official returns arc counted, i
the chances are that these would not
the organization fight would not come j
until the regular session, December,
1917. I
As matters stand, the candidate of
the Republicans for speaker will be"
James R. Mann, the present minority
leader, and Speaker Clark generally
is regarded as the Democratic choice
lo succeed nimscii. ,fircauy. How
ever .there arc rumblings of uncer
tainties because of the close political
division. On the Republican side,
there arc reports of disaffections
against the minority leader. Conse
quently, there is gossip among some
Republicans regarding the advisability
of naming another man as candidate
for speaker.
Clark May Be Minority Leader.
There arc certain to be some inter
esting and lively party conferences on
both sides before any organization
tickets arc finally launched. As the
Democrats apparently will be in the
minority, some of the friends of
Champ Clark arc not certain that he
will be a candidate to succeed him
self. Unless he can be elected speak-
STARCH TRUST"
I ORDE
DISSOLVED
By Associated Press.
NEW YORK, Nov. 13 The "starch
trust," representing $80,000,000 capi
tal, was adjudged guilty of "unfair
methods of competition" and a viola
tion of the Sherman act. It was or
dered dissolved.
By Associated Press.
EL PASO, Nov. 13. Carranza offi
cials announced that Benjamin Bra-
han, a Pershing scout, and Joseph
Williams, an American Mormon, held
in the Juarez jail, will be released im
mediately unless additional evidence
is produced against'them.
Canadian Minister
Of Defense Resigns
By Associated Press.
OTTAWA, Nov. 13. General Sir
Sam Hughes, Canadian minister of
militia defense, has resigned. It is
reported, a break between Hughes,
Premier Borden and other members
of the Canadian government, resulted
from differences over questions of
policy and details of administration
LD WE
IN
THE ENTI
IS WITHDRAW! IIPIff STRJKF
OVER TROOPS FROM utv hot or siirnirn
RE MEXICO Imi ""' DL HraiLU
COUNTRY
Even Reaches Into
Interior of Texas
NEW LOW RECORDS FOR
NOVEMBER ARE REPORT
ED FROM COLORADO,
SOUTH DAKOTA AND
WYOMING; 20 BELOW AT
ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO
JOINT COMMISSION TO
REACH AGREEMENT BE
FORE END OF WEEK IS
INTIMATED.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. A cold
wave, witn temperatures at various
places lower than ever before record
ed in November, overspreads the re
gion, west of the Mississippi river to
day and will move eastward to the At
lantic coast.
Sheridan, Wyo., reported the low
est temperature, with 26 'degrees be
low zero. Lander, Wyo., reported 24
degrees below zero, and Cheyenne,
Wyo., Yellowstone National Park and
Havre, Mont., 20 degrees below zero.
The intense cold reaches southward
into the interior of Texas.
Weather bureau officials today said
the cold wave perhaps would dimin
ish in intensity as it moved eastward.
Worst In Years.
By Associated Press.
ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 13. It is
intimated that an agreement provid
ing for the withdrawal of the punitive
expedition might "be reached before
the close of the week, following a con
ference of the commission today. Ca
brera said he believed a settlement
would be reached within a few days
and should a withdrawal agreement
be formed, it probably will not stipu
late that the Americans come out im
mediately, but be recalled within per
haps 60 or 90 dayss The Americans
do not doubt Carranza is sincere in
his efforts to drive Villa from his
field, but have been keenly interested
in the- apparent inability of the pres
ent .ortlicrn .Mexican army to ac
complish its object.
Railroad And Brotherhoods F?jl To
Agree On Mileage System Of Com
pensation In Adamson Act.
By Associated Press.
NEW YORK, Nov. 13. Danger of a nation-wide railroad
strike, which it was believed, had been averted by the passage of
the Adamson act, has not entirely disappeared, it was disclosed
today when representatives of the railroads and brotherhoods fail
ed to reach an agreement regarding the application of the new law
after an all-day conference.
The mileage system of compensation proved the stumbling
block. Elisha Lee, chairman of the railroad managers end of the
conference, said: "It is not certain that another meeting will take
place." William G. Lee, spokesman for the employes, declared
that summary action will be taken in event of an evasion of the
Adamson act by the railroads. He said the strike order, which was
directly responsible for the law, is still in effect and the brother
hoods will not hesitate to enforce it if the occasion warranted.
DENVER, Nov. 13. The first coldl poscdly to pass a bill calling all fit
wave ot the season ,broulit new rec
ords for cold weather in November in
the Rocky Mountain' region today
New low records for November
were reported by the weather bureau
from .three points Cheyenne, Wyo.,
Rapid City, S. D., and Grand Junction,
Colo.
In Denver it was 2 degrees below,
Roswcll, N. M., reported 20 degrees
above zero.
Says Conscript Will
Be Used by Germany
Tty Associated Press.
AMSTERDAM, Nov. 13. A tele
gram quotes the German newspapers
as saying aa extraordinary sitting of
the rcichstag will be convoked, sup-
civilians into "service in the
of the Fatherland."
interest
Carranza Troops
On Trail of Villa
V v
3
BOTH CLAIM VICTORY
Deutschland Ready
For Return Voyage
By Associated rress.
NEW LONDON, Nov. 13. Taking
on additional fuel oil and partial pro
visioning the craft indicated an early
departure by the Deutschland for
Bremen. It is believed it will make
a clash to sea alter husk, without a
pilot.
GREECE ASSURED
ATHENS, Nov. 13. Vice-Admiral
du Fournct, commander of the Anglo-
French naval forces, gave assurances
today that the French had come to
Greece not as conquerors, but as
friends, and stated that he was ready
to convoy with units of the Allied
light squadron, Greek ships bound for
Saloniki. He did not explain, how
ever, whether the warships to be used
for this purpose would include those
taken from Greece.
CSTEND BOMBARDED
LONDON, Nov. 13. A squadron
of British naval aeroplanes yestcrday
dropped a large number of bombs on
German naval works in the harbor of
Ostcnd and on war vessels there.
DOUBLE TRAGEDY
DUDLEY, Mass., Nov. 13. Frank
M. Dcon, town counsel and the col
lector of Dudley, shot and killed his
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Robert Dcon
and his son, Robert Deon, and then
attempted suicide today. Physicians
said he could not live. Young Dcon,
before his death, told police officers
his father had been drinking.
Murguia to Take
Place of Trevino
many years before the Democratic
ascendancy in 1912. Such a develop
er, they prefer that he abandon that j mcnt might precipitate a lively con
race and become a candidate for mi- test with Claude Kitchin, the present
nority leader, the post he held for majority leader.
riy Associated Press.
EL PASO, Nov. 13. General Fran
cisco Murguia will succeed General
Trevino as commander of the north
eastern military zone as soon as he
reaches Chihuahua City from the
south witli his rc-organized com
mand. It is understood Trevino will
be asked to be relieved for personal
reasons.
PHOENIX, Nov. 13. At 3
o'clock this afternoon the gov
ernorship was still in doubt
and hinging on delayed returns
from Sedonia and other far
northern precincts removed
from direct communication.
Csmpbell apparently maintain
ed the lead established Satur
day night of 175 votes, but
both sides maintain that a
complete count will show a
plurality for ' the respective
candidates.
C !? & C' -7 5 "5
By Associated Press.
EL PASO, Nov. 13. Andres Garcia
inspector general of Carranza consul
ates in the United States, declared the
present movement of Carranza forces
on Chihuahua City had no' other sig
nificance than the determination of
I Carranza to pursue and subdue the
I bandits.
1 1 California Starts
Official Recount
By Associated Press
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 13. The
C' official recount of votes in Tuesday's
"Si election in California began today. No
reports have reached political head
's I quarters here which tend to alter the
general result of the unofficial can-
I nee .
ii in ami ni i
w sun n.wm.
INTO IRK AT
WHITE HOUSE
iPcelpnniDiMATinM nc
oumuinmiun ui
NEUTRALS IS
PRESIDENT NOT WORRY- BRAZIL BROACHES PLAN
l
ING OVER ELECTORAL!
VOTES BUT GETS BUSY;
ON FOREIGN ISSUES. j
BY" WHICH NATIONS AT
PEACE WILL HAVE THEIR
RIGHTS RESPECTED.
SILVER
NEW YORK, Nov. 13 Silver 71V,
cents.
A
LAW
APPARENTLY
ADOPTEO
RETURNS INDICATE THAT
BILL DIVIDING PARTIES
INTO 2 FACTIONS HAS
PASSED.
SUBMARINE SIGHTED
WAKEFIELD, R. I., Nov. 13.
The coast guard station at Grccnhill
reported to Superintendent H. N.
' Knowlcs of this coast guard district
, having sighted a submarine which sig
i nailed its identity as the LMO in
! Block Island sound today. The sub
marine was proceeding cast. Grccn
hill is near Westerly.
DIVIDEND DOUBLED
NEW YORK, Nov. 13. Directors
of the Utah Consolidated Copper Co.
today declared a quarterly dividend of
$1.50 a share, doubling the previous
rate.
REHEARING GRANTED
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. Rc
argumcnt was ordered today by the
Supreme court of cases testing the
constitutionality of the Washington,
New York, New Jersey anil Iowa
workmen's compensation laws. No
date was set for the rehearing.
To
Grazing Rates
Be Soon Increased
By Associated Press
SIOUX FALLS, Nov. 13. Returns
indicate the adoption of the so-called
Richards primary law which divides '
parties into "majority" and "minor-J
ity" factions, requiring each to offer j
a complete set of candidates in the ,
biennial primaries. Presidential and By Associated Press.
gubernatorial candidates must dial-' DENVER, Nov. 13. Smith Riley,
lenge one another in joint debate and' ...... forcstc, announccd aftcr con-
failure to accept will automatically ... ., ,,
..... e ,. , .. . , suiting with officials of the American
strike the name of the delinquent from
the ballot. It is the third time the National Livestock and National
law has been approved by direct vote. Wool Growers associations, that the
It was repealed by the legislature in ! government is considering the in
1915 when the United States Supreme creasing of rates for livestock graz-
court upheld the act. i"g upon the national forest.
ByAssoc-iatedlvss. j WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. Full
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. Prcsi-j details of the recent proposal to the
dent Wilson, back in the White House ' Brazilian parliament by the Brazilian
for the first time in two months, to- j Society of International Law, for the
day, plunged into work. Taking it j formation of a league of neutrals to
for granted he has been re-elected, he ' rCsist trade restrictions and other en
asked no questions about electoral croachmcnts by belligerents, were
votes, but displayed anxiety over the j made public today through the Offi
political complexion of the next house i cial Gazette of the Brazilian parlia-
of representatives. He got in touch j mcnt. The proposed league would
witli pressing foreign problems, in- j consist of all present neutrals and
eluding submarine, Mexican and Brit-(would spring automatically into effect
ish blockade issues. ! whenever another war broke out.
State department officials make no , Th - , thc covcrnmcnt
secret of their belief that dangerous ' ,akc ;mmcd;atc stcps to scclIrc thc
possibilities presented by the recent I co.0nCrations of all neutrals for the
development of both Mexican and dcciaratIon of a uniform scrics of ncu
submarinc issues arc expected soon attra, rights am, for thc;r cnforccmcnt.
the .incncan-.lexican contcrcncc in , r;hts suec5lcd arc tIlc ;mmun.
Atlantic City. It is stated definitely Uy of cnenly goods ,mdcr a ncutrai
by officials in thc president's conn-comnietc liberty of trade between
dence that his re-election will mean ,i ,oiicc f ,.If.,nf
no radical change in policies, although 'dest-tjon f' donl rrom anv cxtra
as soon as the war is over, WiUon ; tcrr;toriai act;0ns such as blacklisting
will recommend a revision of the tar-j ,hc forb;dd;ng of any ai;en to
iff if he feels justified by facts to l'c , form a foreign government of matters
gathered by thc tariff commission. It.which m;ght ead to belligerent re
is reported thc president contemplates strictions
no change in his cabinet but it is said H()w It yould Be Met.
those expected to resign at once arc violations of these rights would be
General Gregory and Secretaries mct undcr ,c p,ailf first by thc whh.
Rcdheld, Baker, Daniels and McAdoo. , drawa, by thc neutral eaguc of the
privilege of friendly treatment for the
offending nation, including thc trade
rights. In case a consular or diplo
matic official should be concerned, his
credentials would be handed him at
once. If this proved unavailing, hos
tilities might follow.
Thc report, while directed at all
belligerents, is more concerned with
British trade violations, Thc efforts
of thc United States arc recognized,
but are declared ineffective. Thc al
lied blockade is particularly criticized.
A case is cited in which a Brazilian
I vessel from the United States to Bra
L. Cord, I ,;i ;s nlleced to have been seized, tak-
PHOENIX DRIVER
WINS THE 273
MILE RAG
By Associated Press.
PHOENIX. Nov. 13. E.
of Phoenix, won thc 273-mile Douglas cn ;nto Martinquc and forced to sur-
to PhocnSx.autoinobilc race. The un-j reru!er some of its merchandise bound
official time was S hours and 13 min-rto Brazil,
iitcs. Fourteen started but only five! 'Brazil Is Hard Hit.
finished. Hugh Miller, of Phoenix, Tlc Brazilian report created great
finished first but started ahead of;nterest ;n official circles. South
Cord. Miller's time was slower than ; American nations have been hard hit
the first three. . l,v British trade restrictions and some
: time ago an official announcement
Bert Hincs, of Douglas, was sec
ond; Peter Thomason, of Phoenix,
third: Hugh Miller, fourth, and R. L.
Browner, of Globe, fifth.
was made in Chile, that the Chilcai
ambassador to the United States,
Brazil and Argentina, had been re
quested to seek joint action on thc
British blacklist. Thc State depart-
NEW YORK, Nov. 13. Electro-1 mcnt. however, sav that as yet ncith-
lytic, first quarter, $30 and $32; second cr thc Chilean nor thc Brazilian pro
ixiiartcr, $29 and $30. 'po.al has been definitely submitted.
COPPER
