Hi " ;H
R . mmUUUt
I I Today's Metal Prices JTtv if iv4i SL'W'VV XvwV 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
NEW YORK QUOTATIONS. II PU J 1 1 I I t l l il l l l 11 l l l TWELVE PAGES
M New York, Nov. 15-Sllver, 71 3-8c; T JW 1 JL X J1 fa V 7 V V" Lf 4,
I lead. $7.007.10; spelter, $11,376 U ThJt ' teLX 7 W C 7 W T T WEATHER Utah: Tonight Fair;
I 11.625; copper, first quarter, $31.00 , W Vw H
32.00; second quarter, $30.0031.00. fc- Thursday Fair and Warmer. , H
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER.
Fortyslxth Year-No. 284. Price Five Cents. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 15, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postoff.ce, Oflden, Utah7
I Germans Make Desperate Attack I
I on the Allies, Using Liquid Fire
! Great Battle Between
I British and Germans
Raging on the Anere
. i
V. With the battle betwen the British
,! and the Germans still raging around
the Ancre brook, the Germans have
struck the trench lines a bard blow
at the other extremity of the Somme
?, fighting front, attacking early today
I between Ablalncourt and the Chaulnes
: woods south of the river.
Paris declares that this attack,
$ which -was desperately pressed with
the- assistance of liquid fire, resulted
i in a gain of ground only east of
i s Pressiore, half way between Chalnes
1 ;i and Ablaincourt Here the Germans
reached a group of ruined dwellings.
; The latest news from the British
' offensive In the Ancre region report
f ed General Haig's troops pressing on
; between the village of Beaucourt-Sur-
Ancre. The ground about had been
;f well consolidated. The taking Gf more
' than 5,000 prisoners has been official
t ly announced.
North of the Somme, Paris an
' ' nounces progress for the French in
the SL Plerre-Vaast wood region
where possession of dominating
I ground ground at Salllisel is facilitat
I ed their operations.
I Germans Suffer Heavy Losses.
il "South of the sugar works opposite
: Albaincourt and Pressiore, as well as
4 in the wood south of Pressiore, French
: artillery and French machine guns
$ broke the waves of the enemy's aa-
i 'i saults. The Germans suffered heavy
losses. Only some detachments of the
i enemy were able to reach a group of
f houses east of Pressiore. A tenative
attack by the enemy delivered on
a Pressiore at 3 o'clock yesterday aft-
If ernoon was driven back with hand
if grenades. This entire region is still
I under bombardment, but the shell fire
jri has been efficiently countered by the
i French.
i "East of Rhelms a surprise attack
by German forces upon one of our
5 minor positions in front of Fresnes
resulted in failure."
jj Germans Begin Counter Offensive.
;1 Paris, Nov. 15, noon. An important
German counter offensive began at 6
1 o'clock this morning against the
i French positions south of the Somme
between Ablalncourt and Chaulnes
! woods, after three days of intense
j bombardment. The Germans attacked
desperately, the war office announces,
i using burning liquid. The official an-
t nouncement says the Germans were
I repulsed everywhere excepting east of
'I Pressiore, where they reached the
. group of ruined houses.
! Petrograd, Nov. 15. Via London,
2:40 p. m. Russian troops on the
;) river Narayuvka in the region of the
' heights to the east of Lipnicadolna,
in Galicia, yesterday assumed the of-
fensive and forced the Austro-German
:; troops from the positions which they
i had occupied on both sides of the road
: leading to the village of Slaventln,
; according to the Russian official state
ly ment issued today.
Rumanians Take Town.
. Bucharest, Now. 1J. Via London,
v Occupation by the Rumanians of the
town of Boaslc, in Dobrudja, is an-
7 nounced today by the war office,
i Hostile -airmen, the official state
-mont rpnnrf.q. drnnnp.d bombs nvpr
r! tho palace in Bucharest The queen
' and the princesses, however were not
in the structure, having left after the
I death of Prince Mircea.
French Detachments Driven Back.
Sofia, Tuesday, Nov. 14, via London,
5 Nov. 16, 10:05 a. m. The following
i account of military operations on the
i Macedonian front, was given out here
iWl . officially today.
Tl "South of Lake Malik (in Albania
iSM near the Greek border) our ndvanced
H units attacked and drove back weak
H ; French detachments toward Koritza.
mJI , Between Lake Presba and the Mon-
J ; astir-Fiorina railway vigorous artil-
H ;' lerj' fighting took place. On the Ken-
9 all-Polog, (southeast of Monastlr), all
1 i enemy attacks failed with heavy Iosb-
11 es. The enemy repeated his attacks
II J during the night of November 13, but
i' II was again repulsed.
f II "In the Vardar valley at tho foot of
. II : the Belaschita mountain and in tho
11 :; Struma valley there were patrol en-
5 r' gagements and weak artillery engage-
II j( mentB,"
gm ? Ground Gained North of Ancre.
Em London, Nov. 16, 12:03 p. m. The
; British troops north of the Ancre
I . were engaged last night in consoli-
9 dating the ground won In tho new
8 - offensive movement and no further
B ', important operations were undertaken
9 Today's official report from the
9 Franco-Belgian front says:
fl "During the night we secured the
M ground won by our attacks north of
B the Ancre. More prisoners havo been
Hi taken, the numberfl of which will be
B reported later."
Hj British Attack Ceaselessly.
9 . Berlin, Nov. 16. By wlrelesB to Say-
H vllle. North of the Ancre river the
3j British attacked ceaselessly yesterday
V'fe
-jHsk
with strong forces. Today's official
report says the British captured the
village of Beaucourt, but that every
where else their violent assaults broke
down with heavy losses.
The statement follows:
"The battle north of the Somme
continues. Tho struggle which went
on from morning till night marked
November 14 as another day of a great
battle. The British hoped they could
take advantage of the success ob
tained at the beginning and there
fore attacked against with strong
masses north of the Ancre and sev
eral times between Le Sars and
Guedecourt. They succeeded in cap
turing the village of Beaucotirt, but
on all other portions of the extensive
front of attack the violence of their
assaults broke down with heavy losses
before our positions.
"In the repulse of the hostile at
tacks, Magdeburg Infantry Regiment I
No. 66 and Bavarian Infantry Regi-
ment No. 169 and regiments of the
Fourth Guards Infantry DIvvsion
especially distinguished themselves.
"Tho French employed strong forces
in an effort to capture St. Pierce
wood, but their attacks were entirely
unsuccessful, ending in a sanguinary
defeat."
Rumanians Driven Back,
Petrograd, Nov. 15, via London,
3:35 p. m. In the Tirguijiuly, Alt and
Jiul valleys, on the Transylvanlan
front, the Rumanians have been
forced back by the, Austrians-and Germans-
who ..have brought up reinforce
ments', the war office reports.
00
HEAVY LOSSES
FOR 1STRIANS
Berlin, Nov. 14. (Wireless to Say
vllle.) The Overseas News agency to
day made public the following:
"Vienna reports that the tremend
ously heavy losses of the Italians in
their last offensive in the Isonzo re
gion have been confirmed. The vil
lage of Castagnievizza saw the most
tendcious fighting of the Austro-Ital-ian
war. Extraordinarily efficient
artillery fire annihilated nearly the
last man of an Italian infantry bri
gade and an Alpine battalion.
"Other regiments following them
suffered likewise". When hand-to-hand
fighting came at least half of
all the Italian troops launched for tho
attack had fallen or wore out of the
combat.
"All Italian reports recognize that
the hostile artillery fire was of im
posing exactitude and formidableness.
Especially was this true of tho counter
drumfire of the Austrian artillery dur
ing the night battle about Castagnie
vizza. This counter drumfire forced
the Italian troops to retreat from this
zone, which was covered by about 200
machine guns.
"The Italians lost about 15,000 men
at Castagnievizza.
INVASION BY
THEJEUTONS
London, Nov. 14. Admissions of
new reverses contained in today's of
ficial war bulletins from Petrograd
and Bucharest gave additional proof
that General von Falkenhayn's new
offensive in tho Transylvanlan Alps is
in unchecked swing. The Teuton at
tacks, these reports show, have been
extended from the Campulung front
northward to tho Gyergy mountains
and even as far as the wooded Car
pathians, where sudden blows were
struck at the Russians, as a result of
which the latter were thrown back to
the frontier.
The village of Bumbeshtl, in the Jiul
valley, fell to tho Teutons. In tho Alt
valley the Rumanian resistance was
broken anew. ICing Ferdinand's troops
were thrown back "slightly," accord
ing to Petrograd. Bucharest admits
officially that in the region of Drago
slavele "the enemy compelled our
troops to give way on the loft wing";
that on the right bank of the Alt the
Teutons, "by employing fresh troops
of superior numbers made progress,"
and that "after desperate struggles
our troops were compelled to with
draw to the south of Bumbeshtl."
The Rumanian report further
speaks of a violent battle between the
Uzul valley and the valley of the
Casin river, whore, it 1b conceded, the
Austro-German forces havo been un
interruptedly attacking ever Bince Oc
tober 29. In this area of operation
MORE THAN HALF THE STATES ARE NOW IN DRY COLUMN
Are. j rel
KB WET STATES KLT 1
I I DRY STATES 5i
More than half the states in the country, twenty-fivo to be exact, are now in tho "dry" column. At the
recent election six states went over to prohibition: Michigan, Nebraska, South Dakota, Montana, Utah and '
Florida. The latter two did not vote directly on prohibition, but legislatures pledged to the dry cause were
elected. The territory of Alaska has also voted the saloons out.
one local success is claimed by Buch
arest, which somewhat offsets the se
ries of grave admissions.-
Small Rumanian war Craft, presum
ably monitors, have arrived at Selni
eni, on the Danube, north of Cerna
woda bridgehead, and have begun a
systematic bombardment of Field
Marshal von Mackensen's left flank,
with a view to preventing tho Teuton
commander in the Dobrudja from re
pairing the big bridge and crossing
tho river Into' Rumania. This new- de
velopment, coupled with an exploit by
Austro-Hungarian monitors, which
captured seven Rumanian boatloads,
Is the only new element in the Dobrud
ja situation.
PARKER AND HALE '
SEND TELEGRAMS
Salt Lake, Nov. 15. Supplementing
their congratulatory telegrams, John
M. Parker of Louisiana, candidate for
vice president on the Progressive na
tional ticket, and Matthew Hale of
Boston, acting chairman of the Pro
gressive national committee for Utah,
expressing their appreciation of the
work dono by the Progressives in Utah
during tho campaign. Mr. Parker
said in part:
I thank you for your appreciat
ed courtesy in sending me a copy
of your circular letter dated the
3rd insL, and the splendid results
you have obtained In your state.
At the bottom of the letter the fol
lowing postscript was penned:
Bully for Utah. I am going to
try and get out to see you.
For many years Mr. Parker was a
close friend of Colonel Theodore Roos
ovelt. When Colonel Roosevelt went
on his hunting trips in the Louisiana
cane brakes during his presidential
term he hunted almost exclusively on
the 25,000-acre ranch owned by Mr.
Parker.
nn
FRENCH STEAMER
SAFE IN NEW YORK
Now York, Nov. 15. The French
line steamer Chicago, with 229 passen
gers from Bordeaux, previously re
ported by cable as having put into
Fayal, Azores, with fire In her holds,
reached here today. According to the
offices, the fire was discovered when
two days out from Bordeaux, in the
coal bunkers and before it could be
brought under control It had spread
to the baggage room and forward
hold, where considerable damage was
done.
1 Captain Mace of the Chicago, as a
matter of precaution and to allay the
fears of his passengers, set his course
for tho nearest port, Fayal, as soon
as the fire was discovered.
00
HOUSEKEEPERS' AND
FARMERS' MEETING
Price, Nov. 14. Miss Gertrude Mc
Cheyne, J. W. Paxnian, George B.
Calne, Ben R. Eldredgc and other
stato workers are in Carbon and Em
ery counties this week holding a se
ries of housekeepers' and farmers'
conferences. Meotings are being held
at Price, Wellington and Huntington.
Local speakers are assisting In the
program sRobcrt H. Stewart, county
agricultural agent for the two coun
ties, is in charge of the work, which
will be his last work in these coun
ties, aa he has been transferred to
Boxelder county to begin the work of
agricultural agent there. His place
will bo taken by Wallace Sullivan,
now engaged in similar work at Scotts
Bluff, Neb.
Boston (Mas.) Typographical union
has indorsed a wage agreement en
tered into by its committee and news
paper proprietors In this city. Wages
are increased $2 a week.
CONFERENCE BALL
GAMEJATORDAY
Interest Centered on Football
Contest Between Colorado
Aggies and U. of U.
Denver, Colo., Nov. 14. Interest in
conference football this week Is main
ly centered in tho game between
Utah and the Colorado Aggies to be
played at Fort Collins Saturday. The
two teams, everything considered, are
probably the two moBt evenly
matched that will do battle in Colora
do on that day.
The Aggies are not the team that
they were when the first football went
skyward for the opening of this sea
son. The farmers have beon through
a grueling such as no other team In
tho state has experienced. In the
contest with the Colorado Tigers the
latter put such a crimp into the farm
er crew that it hasn't beon tho same
team since.
Scott, halfback, Johnson, full, and
Hutton, quarter, took a great many
of tho hard knocks, and Robinson and
Medson, two of the best ends the con.
ference has esen for years, also re
ceived Injuries that have cut down
their playing power. They are glv
ing out, however, that they will be in
the game Saturday.
Manager Wigender or the Denver
team, who officiated at Salt Lake last
Saturday, says the Utah team haB a
good offense and a fairly strong de
fense. Ho also says that the Utah
men get under way In less time than
any team he has ever seen. The re
sult of the game Saturday, he believes,
will depend -upon which team gets tho
break.
Coach Norgren of the University
of Utah team bundled his men up in
mittens and ear muffs for their prac
tico yesterday in the Icy air of Cum
mings field. Many now formations,
which Norg expects to use against
the Colorado Aggies Saturday, were
tried, and an hour of dismal practice
was also on the program.
Miss Lucy Van Cott, dean of women
at the university, opened a training
table yesterday, which will be main
tained until the squad leaves for Colo
rado tomorrow.
00
ELI SQUAD PRACTICES
IN BASEBALL CAGE
New Haven, Conn., Nov. 1-1. A sog
gy gridiron and a drizzling rain
caused a change in tho practice plans
of the Yale football team today. In
stead of the contemplated scrlmmago
between the varsity and the scrubs,
Coach Tad Jones ordered the squad to
tho baseball cage, where an hour's
signal drill was held, followed by
"breaking through" practice for tho
linemen.
The varsity lined up as follows:
Mosely. left end; Gotes, left tackle;
Black, loft guard; Callahan, center;
Fox, right guard; Baldrldge, right tac
kle: Comerford, right end; Smith,
quarterback; Neville, left halfback;
Legore, right halfback; Jacques, full
back.
Tackle Taft and Guard Gait of the
first team, who have ben injured,
practiced with the second eleven.
There is still some doubt whether
they will be able to start against
Princeton on Saturday.
Braden the drop-kicking fullback,
has a slight injury and he will bo
saved bb much as possible In this
week's practice.
-00
President Williams of the A. F. of
L. building trades department has is
suod tho call for tho tenth annual con
vention to convene In Baltimore Mon
day, November 27.
NEW YORK ROAD
ASKS INJUNCTION
New York. Nov. 15 The New York
'Central railroad will-' shortly file in
the federal court here the first in
junction suit to be brought by an east
ern road to test the constitutionality
of the Adamson eighthour law, it was
announced by Albert H. Harris, gen
eral counsel for the railroad. The ac
tion, It is understood, will be directed
against H. Snowden Marshall, United
States district attorney here, and sev.
eral local officers of the four train
men's brotherhoods. A temporary stay
will be sought which would enjoin
the defendants from Instituting prose
cutions against the road to compel
it to carry out the law.
According to a report published
here today, the attorney-general of
the United States will shortly select
one of the railway suits and push it
through to a decision which, should
It be unfavorable to the government,
would then be at once taken to the
United States supreme court.
00
TIMES' COMMENT
ON GRLTS NOTE
Document Regarding British
Blacklist Considered Very
Convincing.
London, Nov. 15. -1:55 a, m. The
Times, commenting on Viscount
Grey's note to the United States in
regard to tho' British blacklist, says:
"The reason of this convincing doc
ument must satisfy the government
and the people of the United States
that they have misunderstood the
measure against which they thought
it was right to protest. Their note de
clared that these measures were in
consistent with the rights of neutrals.
Viscount Grey Joins issue upon this
contention and proves that they do
not impair neutral rights as the sta
tute is a piece of purely municipal
legislation. We have too high an opin
ion of American sense of Justice and
law to suppose that our right, legal
and moral, to adopt these measures
can seriously be disputed once their
true character is understood."
00
WILSON IS GAINING.
Santa Fo, N. M., Nov. 14. President
Wilson made a net gain of forty votes
over Charles E. Hughes in official
returns from five New Mexico coun
ties reported to the secretary of state
today. Tho unofficial tabulation, In
cluding the official count in five coun
ties, tonight shows G10 out of tho C38
precincts In the stato have been heard
from. Tho count stands: Hughes,
29,324; Wilson, 31,548. It is expected
a week will elapse before all returns
have boon received officially.
PROHIBITION DEFEATED.
St. Louis, Nov. 14. Official returns
from all but fourteen of the counties
of Missouri, compiled by tho Post
Dispatch, give the prohibition amend
ment a majority of 14,000 outBide of
Sr! LouIb. 1
Tho heavy adverse vote of St. Louis
defeated tho amendment in the state,
according to returns already In, by
11,500.
PEACE TALK IS
AGAINJEARD
Hungarian Says the Time Is
Approaching When Pres.
Wilson Can Act.
Berlin, Nov. 13. Via London, Nov.
15, 5:35 a. m. (Delaed.) The open
ing of peace negotiations may per
haps be expected with fair prospects
of success in the course of the coming
winter, according to Count Albert Ap
ponyl, veteran Hungarian leader and
former Hungarian premier. Count
Apponyi, who is visiting Germany to
deliver two addresses on Hungarian
history, expressed his views in an in
terview given to a correspondent of
The Associated Press in which he diB
cussed the general European situa
tion. "We cannot expect," he said, "to
see peace negotiations opened within
tho next few weeks while the Ru-
uiiiuitiu uuuiycuyu is 8UU uuuttcuueu.
However, I regard our chances for
success there as excellent and, once
Rumania Is crushed, I think both sides
will be willing to consider the ques
tion of peace. Rumania was the en
tente's last card and is proving a los
ing one. We are massing a big army
against the Rumanians and I think
that the end will come shortly. Of
course, our progress on the Transyl
vanian front is a bit slow, owing to
the great difficulties of the country
and particularly to the deficiency In
rearward communications: These
communications are far poorer than
In the west or even in Galicia and Rus
sia. However, the entry of Rumania
into the war has in many respects
been really advantageous to us."
To illustrate what he regards as the
Improving chances .for peace negotia
tions, Count Apponyi referred to re
cent speeches of statesmen in the op
posing camps.
"Not Lloyd-George, of course," he
Interjected parenthetically, "but such
as Lord Grey and Chancellor von
Bethmann-Hollweg for example."
He suggested a comparison between
the utterances of these leaders a year
ago and at present. "Then," he said,
"their respective standpoints were as
far apart as the poles but now, al
though there are still wide differences
between them, they have most, appre
ciably drawn nearer. The references
to crushing Germany have been elim
inated from the British pronounce
ments and the agitation for annexa
tion is dwindling In Germany.
"Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg,"
he went on, "has pointed out
in his latest speech that he has never
demanded the annexation of Belgium.
Such instances as these show, In my
opinion, that there are now no really
insurmountable objects to the pro
gress of a discussion on future peace.
Of course, the kingdom of Poland
must stand, but I believe Russia can
be brought to bear this situation."
Count Apponyi was asked if he
thought the Impulse to start peace dis
cussions could come from within the
camps of a tender of good offices
from a neutral personage or power,
would be necessary.. He replied that
he saw no reason why neutral media
tion should not be welcomed when the
opportune moment to which he had re
ferred should arrive and added that
he knew no reason why President
Wilson should not be acceptable as an
Intermediary.
"We feel of course," he said, "that
President Wilson has not treated us
fairly and that he has departed from
the way of strict neutrality. But,
even though one does not like a per
son, that Is no reason for rejecting his
services when these may be useful,"
Tho Hungarian statesman believes
that not only should the war end be
cause of the futility of hostilities, but
because of his expressed conviction of
the menace of Russia. He declared
that tho western states of Europe
must band together for defense
against Russia, which country he
characterized as the great menace to
Europe and the whole world. "France's
of forts to regain Alsace Loralne are
doomed to failure and the republic
and friendly relations with her east
ern neighbors. Great Britain has
made an effort to crush Germany's
trade relations by an appeal to arms,
but there is nothing to prevent the
trade relations of these three coun
tries from being friendly.
In respect to Russia, however, on
tho other hand, Count Apponyi de
clared that the organization of the
country contains the germs of war
and that she is compelled by the
very essence of her being to maintain
her efforts to extend her domain at
every opportunity over the nations
with which she is in contact.
"Once the war is finished," he said,
"Europe will probably have at least
twenty-five or thirty years of peace,
until the generation which has passed
through this conflict has departed
from the stage. This should give time
and opportunity to a wise and far
seeing diplomacy by which the west
ern states of Europe can arrange for
protection against the disturbing ele
ment In tho east."
Count Apponyi says that his views
aro shared by all leading Hungarians
and with the possible exception of
WILSON BLAMES I
mm I
High Cost of Living Brought .
About in Part by the ;
Dealers. j
Washington, Nov. 14. President
Wilson blamed middlemen for the
high cost of foodstuffs here tonight 1
in a speech welcoming to Washington ; '1
the convention of the National ill
Grange, the first formal speech he has ' IjmmW
delivered since the election. Urging MH
that farmers Increase their output, iil
the president said: il
"We ought to raise such big crops El
that circumstances like the present f
can never recur, when men can make iH
as if the supply was so short that
the middle man could charge for it H
what ho pleased. It will not do to be
niggardly with the rest of the world EH
in respect to its food supply."
The president did not mention re- ilH
cent petitions to him to declare an PH
embargo on exportation of foodstuffs fflH
from the United States to the rest ll
of the world and he did not refer even IH
indirectly to tho outcome of the pres- nl
identlal election. His address was in
terrupted frequently by applause from
the' farmers attending the fiftieth an- '
niversary celebration of the founding ;
of the grange.
Farmers Important Part. fl
"It seems to me," said the presi
dent, "that some of the most inter
eating problems of our life and of the :
life of the world lie before us, prob-
lems in connection with which the
farmers of the United States will play
a part such as they have never play
ed before.
"It goes without saying that the LL
physical life of the nation has al- LLy
ways depended upon the farm. It
goes without saying also that to a
large extent the physical life of the LL
world has drawn its sustenance from
the great areas of farm land in the LL
United States. We have sent food
to all parts of the world, and the Am
erican farmer has contributed to the . :H
life of all the countries of the world. H
But you know that as our own popu- LLy
lation has increased, the proportion LL
in which we could help foreign coun- LL
tries as contrasted with our own has
decreased, and there are problems
that are comparable with the prob
lems of statesmanship lying ahead of LL
the farmers of the United States. LL
"In the future we have got to bring WM
more of the area of the United States JW
under cultivation than is under culti- VM
vation now. We have got to increase ll
the product at every point where it is
susceptible for being increased. IH
"One of the things that has most
interested me about what has been fH
done recently by legislation for the H
benefit of the farmer, is the question jH
why it was not done long before. It lH
is astonishing that the assets, the val- lH
uable, available assets, the visible as- LH
sets of the farm should not have been IH
available as a basis of credit in the Hl
banks on the same terms as the as- Kl
sets of commercial undertaking and IH
manufacturing industry. Cattle are MM
just as visible nnd tangible as goods
in warehouses and goods on trains. MM
"We have liberated the credits of
the banks and we have mobilized
through the department of agriculture
the scientific intelligence of the
world. With that combination, every
nation in the world ought to come to
us to learn how to raise big crops. !
We ought to raise such big crops that
circumstances like the present can
never recur, when men can make as
if the supply was so short that the
middle man could charge for it what
he pleased. It will not do to be nig-
gardly with the world in respect of its
food supply.
"I wish that all problems of govern-
ment were displayed in as clear lines
of duty as this problem of government
with regard to how the farmer ought
to be treated, is displayed. I wish, for JM
example, that foreign affairs were as
simple as agriculture. The great sat-
isfaction about what you have to dis- JW
cuss Is that when once your duty is jW
of intelligence to go forward in the
line of duty. L
"The thing that makes a free coun-
try vital is the large number of peo- fl
pie who get together to do important
things without asking the leave of the
government to do them. The striking
thing about a great country like the
United States is that if the govern- JH
ment neglected everything, the people
would do it; that you do not beckon il
to the peoplo of the United States,
they command you to go on and things
that are neglected they have got
plenty of brains to get together and iH
do for themselves." jH
REPUBLICANS PROTEST. jH
Boswell', N. M.i Nov. 14. Republl-
cans today began an election contest, fgrnm
protesting against the counting of I
votes in eight precincts of Chayes
county, where Democratic candidates
piled up an approximate plurality
of 573 on the face of returnB.
Intimidation and irregularities are jH
charged. .mmftwwv
certain Slavonic el'ements in Austria,
are also held by the leaders in that
country,
