THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 207.
BAKUE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FRENCH
LINES
BROKE
Germans Forced Their Way
1 into Village of Pressoire,
Between Chaulnes and Ab-
laincourt, After the Use of
Liquid Fire and Tear-Producing
Shells, Says Paris
Might Be Ready for Peace
After the Rumanian Cam
paign, Says Apponyi
FORMER HUNGARIAN
PREMIER TALKATIVE
BRITISH PUSH ALONG
v PAST BEAUCOURT
Latter's Success on the Ex
treme Northern Extrem
ity of the Somme Battle
Line Is Continuing-, and
Over 5,000 Germans Have
Been Taken Prisoners
With the battle between the British
and the Germans still raging around the
Ancre brook, the Germans have struck
the French lines a hard blow at the other
extremity of the Somme fighting front,
attacking early this morning between
Ablaincourt and Chaulnes wood, south
of the river. Paris declares that the at
tack, desperately pressed with the as-
sistance of liquid fire and tear-producing
shells, resulted in a gain only to the
east of Pressoire, half-way between
Chaulnes and Ablaincourt. Here the Ger
mans reached a group of ruined dwell
ings.
The latest news from the British of
fensive in the Ancre region reported Gen
eral Haig's forces pressing on beyond the
village of Beaucourt-sur-Ancre, the
ground about which has been well con
solidated. The taking of more than 5,000
German prisoners has been officially an
nounced. North of the Somme Paris announces
progress for the French in the St. Pierre
Vaast wood region, where possession of
the dominating ground at Saillisel is fa
cilitating the operations.
FAILS TO MEET
AMERICAN WISH
Great Britain Fails to Agree that Ameri
can Firms Be Stricken from the
Black List Note Made
Public.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 15. The Brit
ish reply to the latest American note
protesting against the trude blacklist,
made public last night by the state de
partment, denies that right of neutral
trader under international law have
been ruthlessly cancelled, defines the
blacklist measure as a municipal regu
lation plainly concerning only the Brit
ish government ftIul British citizens and
contends that it is designed to shorten
the war.
The note fails to meet the American
demand tlfat the names of American
firms be stricken from the blacklist, but
attempts to convince the state depart
ment that the British position is just
and founded on law. It leaves open the
door for further negotiation, which is ex
pected to follow.
The note was bubseribed by Viscount
Grey, the British foreign minister, and
was addressed to and transmitted by
Walter Ilines Page, the American am
bassador at London.
A part which attracted much official
notice dealt with the subject of peace,
based on the theory that one American
contention had been that there exists no
. -i .1.. Lt...l.i:..i
military necessuy o. t e u.hckhs ium .-.. hj8 ..:.. in Interview with
- I
TEUTONS TIRE
OF TURMOIL
LOSS OF BEAUCOURT
ADMITTED BY BERLIN
Village Fell After Ceaseless Attacks, But
Elsewhere the British Were Re
pulsed, Says Official Statement.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 15. North of
the Ancre river the British attacked
ceaselessly yesterday with strong forces.
To-day's official reports says the British
captured the village of Beaueourt but
that everywhere else their violent as
vaults broke down with heavy losses.
RUMANIANS LOSE
IN TRANSYLVANIA
Austro-Gennan Forces, After Being Re
inforced, Forced Their Enemy
Back in Two Valleys.
Petrograd, Nov. 15. Reports have it
that in the Tirgujiuly Alt and Jiul val
leys on the Transylvanian front the Ru
manians have been forced back by the
Austriana and Germans, who have
brought up reinforcements.
BEAUCOURT HAS FALLEN.
Is Third Village to Be Taken By British
Since Monday.
London, Nor. 15. The British drive
begun early Monday morning amid fog
and rain in the region of the Ancre
river in France has netted them another
village Beaueourt, on the north bank of
the Ancre. The capture of this village
makes three that have fallen into Brit
ish hands since the advance began, the
other two being Beoumont-IIamel and St.
Pierre Divion. There is no indication
that the offensive Jias ceased at any
point along the hve-mile front.
In the drive the British thus far have
taken more than 5,000 German prison
ers, and, according to the latest re
ports, more captives are being brought
in.
Aside from the gains in the Ancre re
gion, the British also have made an ad
vance to the east of the Butte De War
lencourt, about three miles southeast of
the important town of Bapaume.
it is unnecessary for the allies to pre
judice neutral commerce, and that noth
ing which happens in neutral countries
can influence the result of the great con
flict. "If that really were the position,1
says the note, "it is possible that the
measures taken by His Majesty's govern
ment might be described as uncalled
for, but it is not. We may well wish
that it were so. Even though the mili
tary situation of the allies has greatly
improved, there is still a long and bit
ter struggle in front of them, and one
which in justice to the principles fot
which they are fighting imposes upon
them the duty of employing every op
portunity and every measure which they
can legitimately use to overcome their
opponents.
" "One observation which is very com
monly heard is that certain belligerent
acts, even though lawful, are too petty
to have an influence in a struggle of
such magnitude. It is, I know, difficult
for those who have no immediate con
tact with war to realize with what pain
ful anxiety men and women in this coun
try must regard even the smallest acts
which tend to increase, if only by a
hairsbreadth, the danger in which their
relatives and friends daily stand, or to
prolong, if onlv by a minute, the period
during which they are to be expressed
to such perils,
"Whatever inconvenience may be
caused to neutral nations by the exer
cise of belligerent rights, it is not to
be compared for an instant to the sutler-1
ing and loss occasioned to mankind by
the prolongation of the war even for a
week."
In its argument the note points out
that German business houses throughout
the world have furthered the cause of
Germany in the war, and have been ac
tive agents for the dissemination of
German political and social influence and
for the purposes of espionage."
In some cases, continues the note,
they have even been used as bases of
supply for German cruisers, and in oth
er cases organizers and paymasters of
miscreants employed to- destroy by foul
means factories engaged in making, or
ships engaged in carrying supplies re
quired by the allies. Such operations
have been carried out in the territory
even of the United States itself, and I
am bound to observe, what I think will
not be denied, that no adequate action
has yet been taken by the government
of the United States to suppress breaches
of neutrality of this particularly crimi
nal kind, which 1 know that they are
the first to discountenance and deplore.
"In the face of enemy activities of this
nature, it was essential for His Majes
ty's government to take steps that
should at least deprive interests so
strongly hostile of the facilities and ad
vantages of unrestricted trading with
British subjects. The public opinion of
this country would not have tolerated
the prolongation of the war by the con
tinued liberty of British subjects to
trade with and so enrich the firms in
foreign countries whose wealth and influ
ence were alike at the services of the
army."
The note is based largely on the argu
ment that there is no assumption by
Does Not Like Wilson, but
Would Accept His Serv
ices as Intermediary
BLAMES MIDDLEMEN.
Berlin, Nov. 13, via London, Nov. 15
(delayed). The opening of peace negoti
ations can perhaps be expected with fair
prospects of success In the course of the
coming winter, according to Count Al
bert Apponyi, the veteran Hungarian
leader. The former Huntrarian premier
ja correspondent of the Associated Press.
"We cannot expect," he said, "to see
peace negotiations opened within the
next few weeks while the Rumanian
campaign is undecided. However, I re
gard our chances for success there to be
excellent, and once Rumania is crushed
I tfiink both sides will be willing to con
sider the question of peace. Rumania
was the entente's last card and is prov
ing a losing one.
"Once this war is finished," he said,
"Europe probably will have at least 25
or 30 years of peace until the genera
tion, which passed through this conflict,
has departed from the stage."
Discussing the possibility of neutral
mediation, he said he saw no reason
whv such should not be welcomed when
the opportune moment should arrive and
he added that he knew no reason why
1'resident llson should not be accepta
ble as intermediary. "We feel, of course,"
be said, "that President Wilsou has not
treated us fairly and that he has re
parted from the way of strict neutrality.
But even though one does not like the
person that is no reason for rejecting
his services when these inav be useful."
12 SHOTS FIRED
BEFORE SHIP SANK
British Steamer Sarah Radcliff Was At
tacked By Submarine Her Crew
Were Rescued By Norwegian
Steamer.
Paris, Nov. 14 (delayed). The British
steamer Sarah Radcliff, 3,300 tons, was
sunk bv a hostile submarine, which tor
pedoed and bombarded her, according to
semi-official announcement to-day. The
steamer sank after 12 shots had been
tired at her, the crew being rescued by a
Norwegian steamer.
The sloop St. Nicholas of Granville
waa sunk Monday by a submarine. Her
crew were saved.
President Wilson Says They are Respon
Bible for High Food Prices.
Washington, D. C, Nov, 15. President
Wilson blamed middlemen for the high
cost of foodstuffs here last night in a
speech welcoming to Washington tha
convention of the National grange, the
first formal speech he has delivered since
the election. Urging that fanners in
crease their output, the president said:
"We ought to raise such big crops that
circumstances like the present can never
recur, when men can make as if the
supply was so short that the middle..
man could charge for it wihat he pleased.
It will not do to be niggardly with the
rest of 'the world in respect to its food
supply."
It seems to me, said the president,
"that some of the most interesting prob
lems of our .life and of the life of the
world lie before us, problems in connec
tion with which the farmers of the Unit
ed States will play a part such as they
have never played before.
"We have sent food to all parrof the
world and the American farmer has con
tributed to the life of all the countries
of the world. But you know that as
our own population has increase the pro
portion in whieh wa could help foreign
countries as contracted with our own
has decreased and there are problems
that are comparable with the problems
of statesmanship lying ahead of the
farmers of the United States.
"In the future we have got to bring
more of the area of the United States
under cultivation than is umler culti
vation now. We have got to increase
the product at every point where it is
susceptible of being increased.
"One of the thing that has most in
terested me about what has been done
recently by legislation for the benefit of
the farmer is the question why it was
not done long before. It is astonishing
that the assets, the valuable asset, the
visible assets of the farm should not
have been available as a basis of credit
in the banks on the same terms as the
assets of commercial undertaking and
manufacturing industry. Cattle are just
as visible and tangible as goods in ware
houses and goods on trains.
"I wish that all problems of govern
ment were displayed in as clear lines of
duty as this problem of government with
regard to how the farmer ought to be
treated is displaved. I wish, f exam
ple, that foreign affairs were as simple
as agriculture. The great satisfaction
about what vou have to discuss is that
when once your duty is determined, we
have got a great force of intelligence to
go forward in the line of duty."
WILL DEFEND
ADAMSON LAW
U. S. Department of Justice
to Meet Railroad's
Attack
SEVERAL SUITS
ALREADY ENTERED
New Haven Railroad Is to
Bring Action in Four
States
Washington, D. C, Nov. 15. Attorney
General Gregory has decided that the
suits by the railroads against the en
forcement of the Adamson eight-hour
law will be defended by the department
of justice. A number of suits have al
ready been filed by railroads in different
parts of the country. The Pennsylvania
railroad instituted proceedings to-day
and word came later from New York
that the New York Central had formally
filed suit, and the announcement was
made that the New Haven also would
take similar action soon in New York,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Con
necticut.
NEW STRIKE ORDERED
MONTVEIAEll
Lovejoy Tool Co. of Springfield Incorpor
ated for f 130,000.
The liovejoy Tool Co., Ine., of Spring
field has filed articles of incorporation
with the secretary of state, having capi
tal stock of $150,000. The incorporators
are James Hartness, Fred P. Lovejoy,
Charles N. Safford, Ralph E. Flanders
and William H. Beardsley, all of Spring
field. '
SHIP WAS WARNED
To Beware of German Submarines on
Coming In.
Providence, R. I., Nov. 13. The Mer
chants t Miners' eteamer Howard re
ported on her arrival to-day that when
off Block island before daylight she was
warned against a German submarine by
a British cruiser. The message was in
the nature of a general warning, ad
dressed to all shipping, against German
undersea vessels, which it was said
might be met anywhere in the Atlantic
ocean.
E. C. S0RTWELL KILLED.
Son
with
of Alvin F. Sortwell Was
French Armiea at Saloniki.
Boston, Nov. 15. Edward C. Sortwell
of Cambridge, who has been serving in
the American ambulance field service
with the French armies, died Nov. 12 in
a hospital in Saloniki from injuries re-
Great Britain of power to interfere with ;cclvfa ln an auiomoouc acciaeni, accora
neutral traders, but that the blacklist j m" a cablegram received by his broth
BntifOi subjects from trading with per-
RUSSIAN ATTACK
NEAR LEMBERG FAILS
Berlin Reports That Strong Efforts By
Slavs to Advance Were Re
pulsed. Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 15. Serious
Russian attacks were made yesterday on
the front southeast of Lemberg. The
war office announces that all tlie Russian
aetaults were repulsed.
The invasion of Rumania is being car
ried on successfully by the Austrian and
Germans. The statement says the Teu
tonic force yesterday took 1,800 prisoners.
sons found to be assisting or rendering
service to the enemy. It disclaims any
intention of imposing penalties or dis
abilities on neutral trade.
"I can scarcely believe," it says, "that
the United States government intends to
challenge the right of Great Britain as
a sovereign state to pass legislation pro
hibiting all those who owe her allegiance
from trading with any specified per
sons when such prohibition is found
necessary in the public interest. The
right to do so is so obvious that I feel
sure that the protest which your excel
lency has handed to me has been found-
Sortl was graduated from Harvard
in lull and joined the ambulance serv
ice in France last May. One month ago
he was tranferred to Saloniki.
Edward Carter Sortwell was the son
of Mrs. and the late ex-Mayor Alvin
Sortwell of Cambridge, where the family
makes its home at 61 Highland street.
It is one of the wealthiest of Cambridge
families, and maintains an extensive es
tate at Wiscasset, Me. Two sons and
three daughters survive.
Sortwell was about 28 and single. Born
in Cambridge, he was educated in pri
vate schools and graduated with the
Harvard university class of 1911. He
ed on a misconception of the scope ami entered me employ 01 the uirtlow Alan
intent of the measures which have been ufacturing company, and had been sta
tioned at taicutta, inuia, as us jute
taken."
The note says the British government
readily admits the United States con
tention that neutrals have the right to
trade with belligerents, but that the
United States must also admit the right
of one belligerent to stop this trade by
lawful means, as seizures of contraband
or a blockade by lawful means. But this
particular legislation, it goes on to say,
is not of this character.
"It is," says the note, "an exercise of
the sovereign right of an independent
state over its own citizens, and nothing
more."
BIG HUGHES GAIN.
A Jump in His Plurality in Minne
sota. St. Taul, Minn, Nov. 15. The Hughes
plurality on a re-checking of votes
throughout Minnesota mounted late yes
terday afternoon to l.OSS.
The totals, including Hennipin countv's
latest figures, showing a decided gain for
Hughes, ware: Wilson, 178,550; Hughes,
179.647.
buyer.
SECEDES ON WILSON VICTORY.
Funeral service for Mrs. Delbert D.
Knight were held at 2:30 o'clock yester-
lav afternoon from her late home, 2
Barre street, Rev. Stanley F. Blomfield
officiating. The bearers were Arthur
Whiteomb, Oilman C. Luce, Elmer Clark
and James Brown. Burial was made in
Green Mount cemetery.
C. 1). Wheelock of State street, a for
mer furniture dealer, and Alice Briggs
of Montpelier and Barre were arrested
early this morning bv Otheer William
McAvoy. The couple were found occupy
ing a room in the Hazcn block on Main
street and were taken to the police sta
tion , State's Attorney Gleasou and
Grand Juror Theriault being summoned.
They were place in jail on the charge of
adultery and arraigned this forenoon be
fore Judge E. M. Harvey. Bail was fixed
in each case at $750, Wheelock furnish
ing bonds for the woman. Lit;, Wheelock
has been operating a public automobile
since be disposed of his business several
months ago.
In probate court to-day Mrs. Marion
Sanborn of Northtield settled her account
as administratrix of the estate of Alfred
L. Case, late of Northtield. Frank Gui-
duci was appointed administrator of the
estate or Joseph Sassi, late of Barre
t it v.
Hamilton Baldwin of Wells River, a
member of the penal board, was in the
city to-day on his way home from Rut
land, where he visited the house of cor
rection. The Ivard is making up its re
port to be given the budget committee
which meets some time next month. Mr.
Baldwin says that considerable trouble
is being experienced in making up the i
estimates owing to constant change in
the price of foodstuffs.
Walter H. Crockett of Burlington is
visiting in the city for a few days while
attending the fruit show -
By Firemen Against Boston Hotels and
B. & M. Railroad.
Boston, Nov. 15. Strikes against all
the leading Uptelt of this city and the
Boston & Maine railroad have been vot
ed, it waa announced at a meeting of
the stationary firemen's union last night.
It was stated that the sanction of the
International Union of Stationery En
gineers and Firemen was awaited before
the men walked out to enforce their de
mand for a raise in pay.
CALIFORNIA'S VOTE
Whether Split or Not Depends on Deli
cate Point at Issue.
Pan Francisco, Nov. 15. Whether the
highest vote for a Republican elector in
California was greater than the lowest
vote for a Democratic elector is about
the only question of interest to Califor
nia politicians. If this should prove to
be the case the state's delegation in the
electoral college may be split. The Re
publicans admittedly unearthed nothing
in the course of the day to indicate for
or against ueh a prospect.
Sidney M, Van Wyck, jr., chairman of
the Democratic campaign committee,
worked all day bringing in reports from
little counties in the mountains where
the county clerks had finished theirount
and also succeeded in getting one or two
fair-sized counties. His total for 20
counties showed that the totals for the
lowest Democratic elector in each county
added 6.400 votes more than the totals
for the highest Republican elector in the
same counties. Tins count would show,
when completed, the Wilson electoral
vote at its lowest ebb, Mr. Van Wyck
said.
That is to say, if the lowest Democrat
ic totals are finally ahead of the highest
Republican totals, a solid delegation in
the electoral college is assured. If the
highest Republican totals exceed the'low
est Democratic totals, this will not nee
essarily indicate that any Republican
electors win because the lowest Demo
cratic and highest Republicans are not
the same in all counties.
Republican and Democrats alike man
ifested surprise at rumors traceable in
all cases to the Fast, that a considerable
error had been found somewhere in the
state in counting the votes.
NEW MEMBER OF
BOARD OF HEALTH
SHOT ACCIDENTALLY.
Mrs. Pearl Rawson of Jamaica Was Mov
ing a Rifle in House.
Brattleboro, Nov. 15. Mrs. Pearl Raw-
son of Jamaica accidentally discharged a
rilie while moving it in her house yes
tenlay. The bullet entered her left arm
at the elbow and tore its way through
the muscles and came out at the shoul
der, severing a large artery, but not
breaking any bones. She was alone at
the time but managed to make her way
to the house of a neighbor, where, weak
from loss of blood, she was given attention.
MONTPELIER MAN FINED.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Helen Cruickshank left to-day for
Springfield. Mass., where she will at
tend a private school through the re
mainder of the school year.
John Sutherland, a peddler from
Peekskill, N. H., who was arrested on an 'guiltv to operating an automobile while
intoxication charge last night, entered a j intoxicated, without a license, and with
plea of not guilty when arraigned be-j out the owner's permission. He was 1111-
fv;re Magistrate II. . Scott in citv ; able to pay tine and costs amounting to
court this morning. Sutherland refused I $4(5. imposed 111 the municipal court
Edward E. Blouin in Motor Vehicle Trou
ble at Dexter, Me.
Dexter, Me., Nov. 15. Edward E. Blou
in of Montpelier, Vt., was given three
months in jail yesterday after pleading
"Too Much for Me," Oregon Minister
Says, Renouncing Citizenship.
Helena, Mont., Nov. 15. Rev. Francis
Von (lafenbeck of Tillamook, Ore, has
sent his naturalization papers and a let
ter renouncing his citizenship to the
United States district court clerk. The
letter in part said that to "see a man
returned to power after an administra
tion and policy such as we have seen
during the past four years is too much
for me.
44,000 PRISONERS IN ENGLAND.
And 31,000 British Are Held Captive by
the Germans.
London. Nov. 15. Forty-four thousand
German military and naval prisoners are
held bv the British, and 31.1) British
prisoner are held bv the Germans, it
was announced in
mons yesterday.
the House of Com-
to retain counsel when a court trial was
asked for and after two officers had tes
tified the magistrate brought in a ver
dict of guilty. Sutherland offered as iiis
defense the fact that he presented him
self at police headquarters as a candidate
for the free lodging privilege and was
locked up. In lien of paying the fine
and costs assessed him, Sutherland, who
said he was 64 years old, took the al
ternative jail sentence.
About 25 people gathered at the new
home of Mr. and Mrs. Otto George of
South Barre last night for an old-fashioned
house-warming. The affair took
the form of a pleasant surprise, as the
host and hostess were quietly reposing
in their nocturnal slumbers when the
party arrived. In spite of the handicap,
a delightful evening for all was spent,
card playing being the chief entertain
ment although strain of music from a
victrola could be heard at most any lime.
In beV.alf of the crowd preent. Miss Vina
Willett. sister of Mrs. George, prevented
her some portieres and minor gifts. Re
fore departing fur home, light refresh
ments were servi-d and Mr. and Mrs.
Oorge were left to complete their
dreams.
Blouin waa a private in Co. A, 2d Maine
infantry of this town.
Brier Items.
Mottled butter is due largely to un
even distribution of salt.
Operating a gin at rapid speed injures
the fiber of cotton by cutting it.
The three Cs for caring for milk in
the home are: Keep it Cold, Covered,
Clean.
Oats watered to make them weigh
more cannot legally be shipped in inter
state commerce.
1916 DEER SEASON
OPENS IN VERMONT
Forrest R. Chaples Named to Succeed
Alexander Ritchie Matters of Rou
tine Nature Taken Up by the
Board of Aldermen.
A new member of the board of health
was elected at the regular meeting of the
board of aldermen last evening in. the
person of Forrest R. Chaples of Becklcy
street, whose nomination by Mayor Gor
don and subsequent confirmation by the
aldermen qualifies him to succeed Alex
ander Ritchie, who recently resigned. The
aldennanie indorsement of Mr. Chaples
was unanimous.
The city clerk and Alderman Bruce
were the absentees last evening. While
City Clerk Mackay primed his fowling
piece on the eve of the hunting season
somewhere 111 hi-tsex counlv," Alderman
Rossi chronicled the somewhat monoto
nous doings of tho aldermen. A. A.
Boyce waa there in person to urge along
bis petition for the privilege of laying a
new sewer from the Wort hen block to
the main line and while mild objections
were raised against tearing up the con
crete walk and pavement with . inter
wajting at the door, the request went over
to the street committee with power to
grant the petition if it ees fit. Mr.
Boyce gave it as his opinion and supple
mented bv the expert testimony of
plumbers that the sewer difficulty prob
ably can be rectified before the excava
tors reach the citv s sidewalk line.
Another visitor was Manager Atlo
Maria ni of the Bijou theatre, who pro
tested against the $2 a day license fee
for his amusement house. The manager
claimed that he is paying as much for a
house with a seating capacity of 201 as
other managers are paying fr theatres
that can accommodate more than 1,000
people at a single sitting. There were
those of .the aldermen who thought the
charge unrighteous and tha license com
mlttee was asked to investigate.
"Somewhat backward was Alderman
Shurtlcff's alluision to a police depart
ment report filed bv Chief Sinclair. The
report stkted that in a single month
there were 35 arresta for intoxication,
three for keeping liquor illegally, five for
selling liquor illegally, eight on search
nd seizure warrants, three for breaches
of the peace, two for operating autos
without the consent of the owners, one
for furnishing and one for driving an
uto in a careless manner 50 all told.
The force of the alderman's remark was
realized when the August date line over
the report was read. Alderman Shurtleff
said he understood that departmental re
ports were supposed to be filed before
he middle of the succeeding month. I he
report was accepted.
Catching up with some of its own un-
nished business, the fire committee re-
orted that one regular fireman and two
orses, also regular, bad been added to
the fire station. In a second report, the
purchase of the horses was noted again
and the'eommittee went on reeord as op
posing the purchase of a motor tractor
on the ground that tho equipment is not
needed at this time. The same commit
tee reported favorably on Anthony To
masi's request to add two stories to a
Merchant street building, albeit with the
reservation that strictly fireproof build
ing material be used in accordance with
the ordinances. Reporting on an appeal
for relief in the liley street meadow,
the fire and water committees stated
that two hydrants and an eight-inch wa
ter main had been installed in the mead
ow in addition to other improvements.
All of the rejwrts were accepted.
The sum of $1,455 was bundled up in a
resolution which passed the second read
ing and was adopted. The resolution ap
propriates $5 lor assessing taxes, $250
for the elections account, $050 for state
and county taxes and $250 to the street
sprinkling fund.
One new tenement house and a new ga
rage were included in a list of building
permits submitted by Inspector George
Rand for the approval of the aldermen.
Permits were granted as follows: H. t.
Cutler, to build a garage at the rear of
23. South Mam street; William Harvey,
to build a garage at 144 Elm street; Ed
ward Anderson, to erect a two-tenement
house off Hall street.
The wiring inspector reported favor
ably on the following applications and
permits were granted : A. B. Curtis,
lights at 16 Pleasant street; A. II. Buz
zell, hotel lights, Pearl street; M. & B.
L. 4- P. Co., 13 meters; Howland Bros. 4
Cave, window lights in Woolworth story;
John Trow, lights at the corner of Hill
and Perry streets; Blanchard Block Co.,
Vincitia club lights; William Micrs, bar
ber shop lights; John Isaacson, house
lights. Pleasant street.
Warrants were approved for payment
a follows: George W. Gorman, post
master, $5.50, stamped envelopes, print
ing and stationery account; street de
partment payroll, $til7.87, street, sprink
ling, state highway, sewer, sidewalk and
health accounts; water department pay
roll, $73X1; police department payroll,
$04X9: election account, $250; G. A. Be-
mis, $14. services as janitor.
125 VARIETIES
OF FRUIT SHOWN
At New England Exhibition
Now Being Held in
Montpelier
VT. SENDS ABOUT
ONE-HAJOF THEM
"""" "
Various Ac ".s'ses of Inter
est to' c uit Grow-Given
The 1916 deer season in Vermont
opened this morning at 5 o'clock
and the first 10 hours of the hunt
were apparently not very pro
lific of results. It was reported
in Barre at noon that a hunter had
brought down a deer in Orange
ml that the carcass was to be
brought to Barre.
BARROWS MOODY.
Barre Young Woman Bride in Marriage
at Northtield.
Miss Madge Moodv, eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Moody of this city.
end Clinton Barrows, recently of West
Berlin, were married at the Methodist
Episcopal 'parsonage in Northtield lues-
day afternioii by the pastor. Rev. G. W.
Burke. They were attentleil ty -Miss
Rena Moodv and Robert Mooily. sister
arM lin.lher of the bride, and the dou
ble ring service was used. Only the two
families ami intimate friend of the
bride and groom were present. The bride
has Wn employed for three years in
the of-ce f Provost & Son of West Ber
lin and untd recently the groom was th
Central Verm nt station agent at West
Berlin. 1-ately he has lieen transterrei!
br the radroad company to Cambridge
Junction, where the couple are to reside.
The State agricultural school at Ran
dolph and other schools in the state were
represented by good-sized delegations at
the New England fruit show, which
opened last evening in the city hall at
Montpelier, it being the first time the
show has ever been held in the state.
The floor of the auditorium is given up
to the exhibition of apples, and on the
lanks and tables which run the length of
the auditorium, are shown at least 125
varieties of native fruit with 80 exhibit
ors. Vermont is represented with 40
exhibitors and the remaining New Eng
land states are represented with approxi
mately the same number.
The Connecticut Agricultural college
at Storra, Conn., exhibits (ifi varieties of
apples and the state of Connecticut is
making a fine display, including 10 va
rieties, through the Penological society
of the state. This exhibit fills 35 ease's
and was transported from Hartford,
Conn., to Montpelier by auto truck.
The work of judging the fruit occu
pied most of the forenoon session to-day,
the work being interrupted the latter
part of the morning for an address.
The exercises of the Vermont Horti
cultural society took place in the audi
torium last evening, the audience occu
pying scats in the gallery and a limited
number of seats directly in front of the
stage.
The Kinds of Apples to Raise.
Dr. J. K. Shaw of the Massachusetts
Agricultural college at Amherst spoke
this forenoon on "Varieties of Apples,"
saying in part:
"In the earlv days of New England
fruit culture, great attention was given
to varieties. A great multitude of seed
lings that bad originated in this part of
the country were tested and the best of
them were selected and named and have
become the best varieties of more recent
times. Those which proved especially
valuable, such aa the Baldwin, have been
planted in places in which they were not
adapted and where they do not succeed
the best. Th has resulted in injury to
the reputation of such varieties. During
the last 15 or 20 years the study of va
rieties has languished. The cry has been
that we have too many varieties and
that we should restrict the number of
commercial varieties to a few. Great
emphasis has been laid on the cultural
methods and this has resulted in the ma
terial progress. I would not minimize
the importance of exhaustive considera
tion of cultural methods and marketing.
It seems to me that this ought to in
clude a careful consideration of the com
mercial value of varieties. A great many
failures in orcharding may be traced di
rectly to wrong choice of varieties or to
a failure to modify the general method
to suit the particular variety grown. It
requires only" a casual survey of apple
growing in this country as a whole to
show that climate governs tthe distribu
tion of varieties.
"The finer considerations of climatic in
fluence are as yet little understood. I
have found as great difference in the
average summer temperature of two or
chards in the same county of Massachu
setts as there is between the average of
Massachusetts and New Jersey, where
the varieties or winter varieties grown
are very different. There prevails in the
higher elevations a notion that apples
cannot lie grown successfully as on the
lower levels. Tins belief rests on the
fact that Baldwin does not succeed so
well, and in Massachusetts, the success.
of the Baldwin is practically synony
mous with success in apple growing. I
suspect that the same is true in a meas
ure in Vermont. Is it not a common be
lief that the central and northern parts
of the state are less favorable for or
charding than the (liamplain and Con
necticut valleys! What is needed is a
different list of varieties for the different
sections and then, so far as the natural
conditions go. apples may be grown as
successfully here as there.
Soils of Importance.
"Good apple soils vary all
from medium clay loam to
the war
medium or
(Continued on second page.)
K. A. LANE'S FUNERAL
Was Held Yesterday Afternoon, with In
terment in Hope Cemetery.
The funeral of Karl A. Lane of Liberty
street, whose death occurred in Boston
Sunday, was held at the Universalist
church Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock,
the pastor, Rev. J. B. Reardon, officiat
ing. The bearers were three brothers of
the deceased. W. A. Lane, G. A. Lane and
A. B. I-ane. and J. K. Ward, a brother-in-law.
Interment was made in the family
lot at Hope cemetery.
Accepts St. Johnshury Pastorate.
St. Johnsburv, Nov. 15. Prof. W. &
No
Atkins of Rome. Ga., has accepted tha
' pastorate of the Methodist church of
! Danville and begins his work Sunday.
Mr. Atkins has been teaching in Rome,
He is a native of Vermont, was edu
cated in Montpelier seminary and Wes-Irv.-tn
university, Middletown, Conn. Rev.
M. H. Sharpies, former pastor of tha
i church is now with the church at Lubec,
Liquors on aaie in vapuai rrom.Mr.
A DRY INAUGURATION.
Saturday to Tuesday.
Washington. Nov. l.V-Iniugiiration
East Fairfield Minister Going to Whiting.
visitors wiil have to wing ilieir own! r.ast raom-m. .f. i-nr.. 11. v i
ttles. The Jones-Works law provides Searles lias resigned as pastor ot the
that saloons must close from the Satur-: Congregational church here, to take ef-
dv nicht before the inauguration until feet !. 1. He has accepted a call to
the Tuesday morning after. the paetorate 10 W biting.
