w w 9. y
,.
CntCULATTON IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
' '
w
. .
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
J)c Ife
0
tmiRTY-NINTH YEAR-NO. 215
SALEMr OREGON, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1916
DDirv rrorrt rTOwra on trains and Kewb
AJMUU X It UJUAl AO HfTAVTlSTTim fTRVTSl
GREATEST BAmE SINCE
DIM ON SOMME BEGAN
Sr. ' . '
Struggle I4 of fiercest Raged All Day and Still Goes 0n
ExpertsHink Haig Is Executing Flank . Movement
. 5,000 damans Prisoners of British Terrific Artillery
fire On Both. Sides Rumanans and Russians Take
Offensive In Dobrudja Region . .
London, Nov. 15. With no abatement in the fury that
attended its initial smash, the British storm of metal and
men against Germany's vaunted sub-surface f ortifica
tions on both sides of Ancre brook continues. All late
dispatches from the front said German counter attacks
have been futile against the British who are holding the
outermost sections of positions taken at Beaumont,
Hamel, Beaucourt and St. Pierre-Divion.
General Haig officially reported to the war office to
day that he has completely secured the ground recently
won and that he has taken more prisoners. He announced
, he would send a more comprehensive report later.
The lavish outpouring of high explosives and shrapnel
from the British big guns appeared to center on the Ger
man lines drawn about Miraumont to the north and
Grandcourt to the south. Miraumont is- an important
railway center and affords an avenue to Achietle Grand
which is opposite Hebuterne and slightly more than two
miles northeast of Bapaume. Grandcourt on the Ancre's
south bank; is on a southeastern branch of the railroad
that centers at Achietle Grand after passing through
Miraumont. v
The terrific effort spent on capture of Beaumont,
military experts said, coupled with operations described
in late n-ess dispatches, from the front, led military ex
perts to believe General Haig has begun a flank move
ment, with its pivot at that village, to encircle Miraumont.
Numbers of prisoners taken continue to mount More
than 5000 are in the British rear, when General Haig filed
lusiast report. And the German losses also are reaching
serious numbers.' 'For the first time since the battle of
' the Somme began,- a general- whose forces have been on
the offensive, said the, defenders' losses have exceeded
those of the attackers, according to General Haig.
Greatest Battle on Somme.
Berlin, via Sayville, Li I., Nov! 14.
Fresh attacks south of the Aacre.be-,
twecn Lesars and Ouedecourt, just
nonth of Bnpaume, were, only partly sue-,
vessful, although,, strong masses of in
fantry were used, the war office an
' nounced today.
Tho statement declared yesterday 'i
liuttlo with the British on both sides of
Aucro brook wenttn from morning to
jiiglit and constituted one oC the great
est buttles of the Somme.
"The battle north of the Somme con
tinue"." the statement said.
' "The struggle going on from morning
until night yesterday makes November
1 t one of the greatest battle days.
"The English, hoping they could ful
low up successes obtained nt the begin
ning of the attack, therefore assaulted
our lines again with strong masses north
f tho Ancre, and several times between
l.n.Sara and Giiedecourk- They iue
needed in capturing the village of Boa-
ourt" but. on all other parts of the long
fronts, of attuck their advance broke
down with heavy losses just beiore our
'0itions."
J Terrific Bombardment.
' I'aris, Nov. 15. French troops' have
made further progress north of the
Homme, the war office announced to
day, at the northern edge of St. Pierre-
nnst wood, following a most uiteuso
bombardment of the Herman lines. De
3
It took th' country a long time t' get
next t' th' silver-tongued oratox. Who
remember wheu a feller wurn' consid
ered dressed up if he didn't have a
toothbrush stickin' out of a vest pocket.
spite desperate counter attack, where
the Germans employed burning liquid
and tear provoking shells, all positions
gained by the French November 7 have
been maintained and the attacks re
pulsed, except at Prcsnoir where small
German detachments gaind a foothold
in a group of ruind houses.
Other nssnultiiig German waves that
were rolled up against French positions
about Presoir were mowed down by ma
chine gun fire.
German artillery is now bombarding
French positions nnd t rench heavy guns
are replying, the report concluded
Canadians Take Trench.
London, Nov. 13. With bomb and
' bayonet, following a terrific barrage
fire, tlie Cunndiurrs have taken the last
nectinn nf the fumnns ltctrina trench
from the Germans. The whole objective I
was consummated within hnif an hour,
the Canadian official report to the war
office stated. The victory gained, rep
resents a front of 1,000 yards stretched
iin a semi-circle.
I Owiug to the effectiveness of the cur
tain tire, tlie over sea tignters suirercu
few casualties. The enemy, the report
eaid, counter-attacked vainly through-!
out the night. One hundred men and
throe officers were captured. -
I . . . Claim Rumanian Reverses.
Petrogrud, Nov. -15. Heavily rein
forced German troops have succeeded in
iurther pushing back Rumanian forces,
which for several davs have been on
the defensive in the Jiul valley below
tlie Valknn Pass district, the war office
statement said today.
There have been some Rumanian re
verses nlso on the Trausylvnniau front
in the Alt river valley.
At other -points on the Trunsylvanian
lines, however, the war office an
nounced, the Buirianians havetaken
the offensivo and repelled the enemy.
The successes occurred north and south
in the Oitu valley, where three machine
guns and many prisoners were taken.
Take Offensive Again.
Bucharest, Nov. 13.; Rumanians and
Russians again are on the .offensive in
the Dobrudja region. Tho war office
Announced today that Boasic, on the
lower Danube bank, about nine miles
west of Cernavodn, has been occupied.
"Wo occupied Boasic and have pro
gressed along the whole (runt," the an
nouncement said.
90 Killed in Rir Bald.
London, Nov. IS. Thirtv more btdies
have been found in houses that were de
stroyed in the recent aero raid on Pu-
dnu, a news dtapatrb from Rome said to
day. This brings the total dead up to
SKI.
BATE INCREASES
ABE CANCELED
AYashington, Nov. 14 The in
terstate commerce commission
ordered canceled big rale in
creases to Pacific points, which
were Inaugurated Inst spring
when the l'nuama canal was
closed and water competition on
transcontinental goods was re
moved. ENGLAND STANDS BY
Says Conditions Compel Her
to Use Ail Legitimate Means
To Conquer
Washington, Nov. 1!. The subject of
bomb plots nnd similar breaches of
neutrality having practically been bur
ied for several months, state depart
ment oincials today were giving con
HiJerable thought to the importance
nttifrhed to such outrages in the Brit
ish reply to the American protest a
gaiust Kngland 's blacklist made public
today. There having been no recent out
breaks of any consequence by enemies
of the allies in this country, the Brit
ish purpose m laying stress on the sub
ject has proved puzzling.
A sharp rejoinder is not unlikely.
some officials believe.
Aside from the assertions regarding
this alleged failure of the United States
government to suppress such activities,
tlie British note is largely a reiteration
of the British contention that the black
list policy, being directed entirely to
tho eoveruing of the trading operations
of British subjects, is entirely within
British rights.
F.ven though the military situation
of the allies has greatly improved, Vis
count Grey declared "there is still a
long and bitter struggle in front of
them and one which, in justice to the
principles for which. thoy are fighting,
imposes upon them the duty of employ
ing every opportunity and measure
which they can legitimately use to over
come their opponents.".
Kunciman declared the luxurious use
of sugar by the people of Kngland must
be stopped. Measures are also imminent
to prevent undue proms rrom being
realized on the sale of potatoes, he said
Kunciman recommended that negroes
be used in unloading British ships at
French ports instead of soldiers.
Kunciman explained that under the
new restriction plan the government as
sumed the power to rogulato markets
of wheat and other conimodiuce.
Germans Report Two
Defeats for Russians
Berlin, via wireless to Sayville, I I.,
Nov. 14. Two reverses for Russian
arms woto announced in today's war of
fice statement regarding fighting on the
ens:cru front.
"Northeast of the Jacobeny forest,
in the l.urpathinns, " said the announce
nient, "Ktissian detachments were
chased by fire' from our outer
most batteries. Tho Russians also were
forced to retire from tho Gygorgo moun
tains to the Rumanian frontier under
heavv Austro-Oerman attacks.
"On the Southern Transylvanian
front fighting continues successfully
for us, We have once more captured
many prisoners there. In the Koten
turn ''ass wc took prisoners six officers
and bad men.
"There isn't nothing new to report on
the Dobrudja campaign."
French Cavalry Helping.
Heilir., via Sayville, L. I., Nov. 14.
French caalry forces are participat
ing in fierce fighting which is going on
in .Macedonia, the war office reported
toduy. The Iranco-Serbian troops re
main on the offensive on the Monaatir
plain end en the Cerna river.
Many Aeroplanes Destroyed.
Ixrhn, via wireless to Sayville, T.. I.,
Nov. a). Seventeen German and 104
allied aeroplanes were destroyed during
the October fighting on all fronts, the
wur on announced today.
"We have fit! hostile aeroplanes in
our possccsion, the statement said.
Mrs. Boissevain
Suffers a Relapse
Los Angeles, (3d., Nov. Mrs.
Inea Hilholland Boissevain, noted wo
man suffrago leader, suffered a re
lapse today, following a blood, transfua
ion operation lite yesterday. Her con
dition was said to be exceedingly crit
teal. -Blood
was supplied the famous pa
t ent by Foster N'eatbing, New York
mining engineer, a one tinne schoolmate
of Lrs. Boissevain.
German Submarine
Off New England Coast
Providence. R. L. Nov. 15. Captain
John Ryan of the Merchants aad Min
ers liner Howard, which -arrived here
today, reported he had received a wire
less from a British warship giving no
tieeof the presence of a O-erman subma
rine off the coast of southern New Eng
land.
WILSON GAINS 435
IN OFFICIAL COUfIT
40 OF 58 COUNTIES
In Nearly All Counties
Changes h Slight As To
SEVEN BIG COUNTIES
YET TO BE HEARD FROM
No Material Changes Expected
Hughes Lead in Minne- .
sota 223
Baa Francisco, Nov. 15. Unless a
vital error is discovered in the unofficial
returns of one of the large counties of
California, I'resident Wilson's plurality,
when the official couat is completed will
be between 3,700 and 3,800 votes-
This estimate wag indicated this aft
ernoon on the face of complete official
returns froih 48 of the 58 counties in
California as tabulated by the United
Fress.
The official returns of these counties
show these totals: Hughes, 136,047; Wil
son, 150,107. This is a gain of 471 for
Wilson over his plurality as shown in
the unofficial count.
The totals of the vote for the two
candidates in these 48 counties give
V ilsou a lead of 14,120.
Tho 10 largest counties in the state
have not yet completed their ofiiciakj
count. The unofficial returns showed
Hughes carries Alameda, Los Angees,
Ban 'Bernardino, San Diego and tinnta
Cara, his unofficial pluralities aggregat
ing 23,910. This leaves Huehes a lead
in these 10 countie of lO.UlO. Deduct
ing this from WUbow's official lend of
14.120 in the other -48 counties, leaves
Wilson a net lead of 3,910. '
The official count in all of the largo
counties is proceeding slowly. In Los
Angeles county, the count so far has
revealed a gain for Hughes of 190. In
Baa Francisco and Alameda counties, on
the other hand Wilson has shown gains.
Whether the Wilson gains will offset
tho Hughes train in Los Angeles county
is problematieal'hut it is not believed
possible that Hughes' gain (except by
discovery of some big error in the taf
lies can total enough to overcome Wil
son 's lead. '
. This plurality of 3,700 to 3,800 hi
probably Wilson's minimum, as it is
based on a comparison by the United
(Continued from page one.)
Be Negligible
Peace Which Ends This War
Will Guarantee World Peace
Says Hungarian Diplomat
By Carl K. Ackennan.
(Uuited I'ress staff correspondent.)
Berlin, Nov. 14. (Via Sayville wire
less, Nov. 15.) "Campaign worrie off
his mind, his election assured, President
Wilson 'mav prove an altogether differ-
cut. president and see his opportunity,
when the moment nrrives, to help obtain
peace in Kurope." "
Ho declared Count Apponyi, one of
the most prominent ox Hungarian lead-;
ers and a world figure before the warj
in the licace-by -arbitration movement, i
on his arrival here today from Budapest "I hope it is Wilson," Count Ap
to speak at a special meeting of theiponyi responded. "We know Wilson,
reic.hstag. He declared peace was "get-. I might say we could be no worse off
ting nearer." j with him nut wc know nothing about
"I'm sure its on its way," lie said. ; Hughes."
And ho added with a happy smile: "Do you think AVilson could do soine-
"I don't think peace will come nextlhing to help bring belligerents togcth
week or next month or within two erf" he was asked.
months even. I am only certain that!
the foundations for peace are now be- o longer Has ine worries or tne earn
ing laid. If you will compare the 1 paign, he may prove an altogether dif
upeechea of Chancellor Bcthmann-Holl-1 ferent president," thC'Count replied. " I
weg and Karl Grey, made nt the begin- think be will see the opportunity when
ning of the war, wit h what they have j the moment arrives. America is psycho
said recently, 'you will see that the twol logically the leading neutral nation
chief belligerents are getting on closer America still might play the leading
ground. They are still wide apart but role in peace."
they are amiroachinir a common cround.1 Wants America'! Friendship.
And why notf All we ask is security.!
We ak nothing but to be permitted to
live and develop in peace. Wo ask that
kind of peace which the people of all;
civilized nations want the peaceful op-1
portunitv to live and exist happilv as a :
nation." "
Is Common Ground.
"Is this 'common ground' the desirei
of all nations to have international
agreements which will keep peace f" the;
count was asked,
"Yes," 'he answered. "The peace
which closed this war must be a peace
which guarantees future world peace
if such peace can be and I don't know
why not. Then all this horrible blood
shed will not bo in vain for future generations-"
"But does Kngland want peace!"
"There are peace parties in all coun-
triei Kngland, France, Russia. Of
'course, there is a strong wai party in
SEATTLE STARTS
MOVE TO RECALL
"HI" GILL
Allowing I. W. W.'s To Arm
and Go To Everett,
Main Charge -
MAYOR MADE NO EFFORT
TO ENFORCE THE LAWS
Resolution Reads: "We Un
qualifiedly Condemn Mayor
H. C. Gill"
Seattle, Wash., Nov. 15. A recall
movement ngainst Mayor Hiram C. Gill
is practically under way today.
I hat such action w as about to bo
started had' Wen rumored for several
days. It materialized yesterday to the
extent that a "law and order" meet
ing was called at the Press club theatre,
and resolutions prepared by Jay Thom
as, brewery press agent; James A.
Wood, publicity agent and Judge Thom
as Burke, former railway attorney, con
demning the mayor, were passed.
J. K. Witherspoon, who acted as sec
retary of the meeting, urged that "the
meeting should do just what it was
called together to do, namely- condemn
Mayor (till by organizing a 'campaign
to recall him."
Others, including W. C. Dawson and
C. J. Bmith, leading employers here,
urged the same action after Judge
Burke had delivered a fiery speech.
The resolutions recited the Dverett
fight November 3, and said the I. W.
W.'s assembled at headquarters in Be
attle, armed themselves in Seattle and
marched to tho city docks, "in military
fashion."
These things were known by the Se
attle police, the resolution stated, and
it was resolved that "we uuqualiified
ly condemn Mayor H. C. Gill for his fail
ure to enforce the laws nnd ordinances
which were openly violated by tho I.
W. W.'s in their preparations for the
invasion of Everott," and for the fail
ure to prevent them from ' ' setting forth
on their unlawful and murderous mis
sion." .
Bov. W. A. Major was chairman of
tho meeting.
Krastus Brainerd, formerly editor of
a morning paper in Seattle, urged that
the resolution be supplemented with an
invitation to Mayor Merrill, of Everett,
and Mayor Gill. to appear at a future
date and give their versions of the
(Continued op rage two.)
Kngland and France. As long as this
party hopes to parcel out Austria-Hungary
and Turkey to-the allies there can
be no peace, but when it is realized that
wo cannot be crushed or divided, even
this party will beve to make peace. We
arc not conducting this war as a war of
' conquest but scnio of the allies are."
I Count Apponyi paused and demanded:
" But tell me, who was elected president
of the I nited htntes."
- Tho interviewer said latest reports in
dicatcd Wilson.
"I think if Wilson is elected, and he
Count Apponyi greatly resembles
former Senator Isaac N. Stephenson, of
;J itconsin, in personal appearance the
tall and straight, with a grey beard and
bright eyes. lie is well acquainted with
American life and customs. It was in
recalling his visits there that the count
added:
"I am so glad to see that we are send
ine a new ambassador to America. Bern
storff has had no support. It is dif-
ficult for America to understand us if
we have no ambassador thero.
"After all, we want peace with Am
erica we want to be friendly. We all
recognize America as the greatest neu
tral nation, must play an important part
when the international pence which ends
this war is made.
"I don't know Tarnoski, our new am
bassador, personally, but I am told he is
(Cofiti
nucd on page six.)
MAYOR
Lower California
Closed to Japanese
San Diego, Col., Nov. 15. That Jap
anese fishermen may be denied the
right of fishing in Mexican waters, of
Lower California, was indicated here
today when it became known that Ksta
ban Cantu, governor of Lower Califor
nia, was presumably back of tho seiz
ure at Turtle Bay last Saturday of the
Japanese tendor Asia, by the Mexican
patrol boat Knsenada for poaching on
Mexican interests. "
It was reported to government immi
gration officials here recently that
Cantu had issued orders forbidding tho
entry of Japanese into Lower Califor
nia. '
ATTACKS
Director of Public Safety
Roasts City of Baltimore
For Their Use
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 14. Attacking
tho use of thugs and gunmen in strike,
Frank Hayes, Jersey Citv, director of
public safety, before the American
Federation of Laber convention todav
denounced .Baltimore for receiving such
men as strike breakers.
Other speakers were Honrv Gorlin
and William Whitefield, Kuglish i'rn-
ternal delegates, and Thomas A. Stev
ens of Canada. Much of tho afternoon
was taken up with reports of special
committees.
1 have handled fifty or -sixty
strikes siuco I have been in office,
said Hayes. "Of that number not one
was decided against the laboring man"
Ihis brought thunder ttom the dele
gates. He went on to tell of how gun
men were imported from New York to
stop strikes and how he had ordered
the poltco in Jersey ( ity to arrest ev
ery man coming in with a gun or with
a criminal record.
'The innocent workman can t carry;
concealed weapons," Hayes said "Why
should these notorious gunmen be al
lowed to como in and be received by
the police with open arms? '
Delegate were urged by Mr. Stev
ens rever to indorse any legislation
providing for government investigation
and settlement of industrial disputes1-!
slich legislation as I'resident Wilson
has proposed.
Get Down to Business
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 14. Reports of
committees and addresses from tho for
eign delegates were the chief features
of the convention of tho American Fed
eration of Labor today. Th 300 dele
gates settled down to heavy business of
the convention.
On a motion from the floor, Sninuol
Gompcrs, president of tho federation,
was named as an added member of the
committee on International relations.
If thero is Bny undercurrent at work
to wash either Gompers or Frank Mor
rison, secretary of the federation, from
their official perches, it has either been
dummcd or is flowing quietly.
In Business For
Fun and to Do Good
Detroit, Mich., Nov. 13. Taking the
witness stand in his own defense in
the suit brought against him by Dodjje
Brothers, Detroit automobile manufac
turers, to restrain expansion of the Ford
Motor company and to force distribu
tion among tho stockholders of the cash
accumulations, Henry Ford today told
Circuit Court Commissioner May that
he is in business 'for fun and to do
the greatest good to the greatest num
ber." Ford. BmiliiiB and at ease, was ques
tioned regarding' his plans to bring ore
dirfct from ford mines in rorci owneu
hin tn VnrA smelters on Kiver Kouire.
Attorneys for the Dodges accused
Ford of arbitrarily planning the ex
penditure of millions of dollars without
consulting the directors.
West Wants President
To Meet His Friends
Washington. Nov. 15. The far west
havinir returned President Wilson to
office, now wants to see him. Scores i
of telegrams from different points
among the Kocky mountain and Pneific
coast states came to the White House
today urging the president to come out
and look over the country that turned
its electoral vote in his favor. Denver,
Colo., wants him, there for a celebration
to be held in his honor Thanksgiving
day, but it Is impossible for the presi -
dent now to get away for an extended
trip.
Portland Jitneys Are
Given An Ultimatum
Portland, Or., Nov. 15. "Obey our
rules or quit."
This is tho ultimatum issued to jit
ney bus drivers by the city council to
day. Tho council has adopted a ro
port, outlining terms of franchises to
be granted jitneys, and burring them
rrom ceriain sireeis. ii u- jihh-j in
terests don accept this by 2 p. m. to
day, they will be forced out of
business.
8TEAMEE BEAR BREAKS
Portland, Ore., Nov. 14 A report that
OF
RELIEF J.1FASURES
Germany Declares Destitute
AD Able Bodied Persons
Receiving Aid
THESE ARE DEPORTED
AND PLACED AT WORK
America Desires Only To Re
lieve Suffering Among '
the Destitute
Washington, Nov. 15 Fear was ex
pressed in Washington today that tho
relief of destitute Belgium by America
may bo seriously interfered with, per
haps actually brought to an end.
The fear grew out of the admission
that deporting of Belgians into Ger
many had reached Buch a scale that the
state department has taken the matter
up with tho German government. Tho
German policy, it is understood has
been tn declare destitute any able
bodied Belgians wuo accept relief sup
plies anci put tnem to worn to relieve
the strain on public charity. This
ourse, officials here believe today, may
result in Kngland and Francs asking
that the United States rolief work stop,
s'nee it apparently plays into the bands
or the Uerman government.
t harge Grew at Berlin has lieea di
rected to take tho matter up personally
with l haueellor V on rtcthmsnn Holl
weir, telling tho latter that deportations
of the Belgians were certain to affect
neutral opinion. Grew had reported to
the state denartment the effeet of dis
cussions of tho subject with Under Sec
retary of Foreign Affairs iimmermau.
Tlie latter is said to have told Grew
that so many Belgians had refused to
work that policy ol -compelling them to
work bad been adopted.
Effect on Neutrals Bad
The instructions to Grew were ; mot
in tho form of a protest, it was ex
plained today, but a memorandirss ex
pressing the opinion of this government
based on two main arguments: -
The inhumanity of the deportations.
The unfortunate effect they would
havo upon neutral nations, particulaily
the people of the United Htotes.
The information on which tns mento
randum wns based was received by the
department solely from American dip-
Inmntic and consular officials la .Bel
gium. - ...
The department s action wus-taacn
on its own initiative, not on representa
tions from any allied government. Too
state department hopes for an early and
favorable outcome of the negotiations.
' Tho United States representation
were made as "the representative or
the Belgian government in German oc
cupied Belgium," a high state depart
ment official said today f.
"However anxious this government
might have been to make such repre
sentations on the ground of humanity,
it is not so likely we would have dono
so were we not representing Belgium's
interes's officially," ho said. "TKo
practice of deportution is, in itself, not
uccessorily without international prece
dent to sanction it. It is often moro
the purpose jind methods employed
which cannot be condoned from the
standpoint of humanity."
The allies are cxpwted to tnhe tho
view that in compelling Belgians to
work, Germany is seeking to -releaso
just that many Germans from necessary
labor and to add them to tho fighting:
forces. The United States it was offi
cially declared, is acting independently
Reports that this country would jo'a
with Spain, Holland or- the vativau in
protesting were declared untrue. In
maintaining independence in its pro
test the United Htntes is currying out
a policy adopted for relief work in
Hvria, Poland aad Armenia.
In trying to obtain a cessation or
forced lubor and a return to Belgium
of already exiled citizens, the United
S ates is doing wnai nu m
woinen of Lille, who were deported to
Germany. America's efforts will result
in the return of the women, it stat
ed. the steamer Bear, ashore near Koreka,
f . had broken in two, was received
UieT ,y shippers today. The vessel was
Lli(i to have split during a gale last
1 i.,ht.
,
i THE WEATHER :
Oregon: To
night and Thurs
day fair, alight
tempera ture
changes; easterly
Winds, lnuderato
near the coast.
DEPORTATION
BELGIANS MAYERD
ME for the!
