That Vacant House
Let The Times-Dispatch Find
You a Tenant?Now
iJidjmonii STitncS - JHSpaf tfj
Try T-D Want Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph f
66th YEAR
VOI.tlMK 00
.\ L M Mi; H 4<>
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
TuS"KH ?FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
LETTER OUTLINES
PLAN TO CAPTURE
STATE FOR HUGHES
Slemp Sends Epistle Written
by S. Brown Allen to Su
preme Court Justice.
ATTACK ON STATE CHAIRMAN
ONE OF MOVES IN CAMPAIGN
Fight Said to Be Under Leader
ship of l-'ormer Postmaster
General Hitchcock.
caiihijIj issrr.s flat hkxial
Allen A No Sn}>i I,pIIpi* Wiis L'ii
aulliori/t't) am] on Own
Responsibility.
Statements in Letter
"Absolutely Untrue"
It. i:. I nlicll, former < Dinmhiilonrr
uf I ii I ?* r mi 1 )(<? \ ffiiic, Imhiici) the fol
slnn-miMit lust ii In lit:
??'I In- MntctncntH contained In Ihc
allrc'il Ii'ltrr from I nlvilrl S. Ilmun
Allen relntl\c to t Ii c- nctlvltlcn of
(?fnfrnl Hitchcock nrc entirely wlth
utit foundation in fact. I have
tnlKfil 111* <.ciktiiI Hitchcock otpr
the liiiiE-illntiiiicr telephone, nml lie
benrs tnc out lit hii.vIiik tluit nclthcr
directly nor Indirectly ban there been
nn> llilnir nlilcli would nrno iih a
foilniln t Inn for tlie nllcKrd fnctn re
eltetl In tluit letter relative to any
political netlvltleM of (ienernl llitch
cork Ii. \ Iriflnin. 1 ?ny uncqnlv
oenll j' thnt tin* ntntementn In tlie
aliened Allen letter relative to
(tenernl Hitchcock are untrue,
?'I lin\?- nl*o talked over the lonjr
dtntunee telephone with Colonel S.
llronn Allen, In ^tniintno, anil h r
nuthorWew mc to nuy that any iufnte
mi'iili he mlKht linvr mode In hln
letter relntUe to f^cnernl lllteheock
"ere unauthorized nnil made on hln
OTrn rrapnnitl hill t y during the proi;
rMi of n lilttrr facllnnn) cnmpalrcn
now unelni; In hln d^tTlcf.**
In a Mtntement to The 1ime<i-r>ln
pnteh over the loofr-dlntnncc tele
phone front Stiiuuton, Colonel S.
Jlrown Allen hiilili
"I wlfch to nny that I liave WTltten
only one letter to and bad one tele
phone conversation with General
Hitchcock, and In neither one were
the niAtterw referred to in the letter
fflvrn out by Mr. Slcmp mentioned."
Thl? ntntcment of Colonel Allen In
corroborated by Mr. ITItcbcock, who
"tatca that he liu.n written but our
letter to Colonel Allen, anil that wim
merely an acknowledgement of n
telephone call made by the latter.
WASHINGTON February 9.?Repre
sentative C. I'liHcom Slemp, chairman
of the Virginia Republican Committee,
to-day made public :i letter from Jus
tice Jiughes, saying:
"I am totally opposed to the use of
my name in connection with the nomi
nation or selection or instruction of
any delegates in n:v favor directly or
remotely."
Justice Hughes's letter, made public
with liis consent, was In reply to a
letter from Mr. Slcmp. which Informed
the Justice that Frank H. Ilitchcoc.k,
Postmaster - General under President
Taft, had Inaugurated a movement In
the South favoring the Justice for the
Republican presidential nomination.
I.RTTI5H TO IICGITKS
AND IlKPLV TO SI,KMI*
Chairman Slemp's letter to Justice
Hughes and the reply of the latter
follows:
/"My Dear Justice Hughes:
"J take the liberty of writing to you
in regard to a political situation that
has developed in the State of Virginia.
Conventions are called in the State to
select delegates to attend the Republi
can National Convntion at Chicugo,
June 7. The State convention is called
for Roanoke .March 2!>; the district
conventions at various times and places
in the district.
"There is a general feeling In the
State that the delegates in the Stalo
should go to tho national convention!
uninstructed, and there, with the Re
publicans from the other Stales In tho
I'nlon. assist in selecting the most
availahlo man ne a candidate. 1 am
chairman of our State committee, a
member in Congress from a RepubU-i
can district In our State.
"About ten days ago a movement
started in the State, directed from Now
1 York City by Frank IT. Hitchcock, for-|
mcr Postmaster-General, favoring you
as a Republican nominee. He has se
cured around him in our State a few
of his old appointees?Mr. R. E. Cabell,
former Commissioner of Internal Reve-1
nuo, now living at Richmond, Vju; Mr.
Ti. A. Davis, postmaster under Mr.
Hitchcock, at Rocky Mount, and Mr. S.
Brown Allen, former postmastor at
Staunton, Vn.
HAS OTIIKit I.ETTRHS
OF SIMILAR CITAILACTKH
*7 incloso you a copy of a letter
written by Colonel S. Rrown Allen to
one of niy friends, who forwarded the
same to me. In this latter Is explained
a movement by Mr. Hitchcock, and I
have otfier letters of similar character.
You will observe H advocates an attack
on me, as State chairman, and the
organization generally, with tho state
ment that Mr. Hitchcock te to be chair
man of tho national committee, and
again Postmastor-Genoral; therefore,
tho dispenser of patronage, and those
who Indorse, his views and sup
port you as presidential candidate will
(Continued <>n Second ~PagJT)
MARDI OKAS, NEW ORI.KANS.
f?.76 round trip via SOUTHERN' RAHAVAV
Jflau 68 t? Murob 8. Stopover*. Xjong limit.
Fears "Party Plot'*
Knilirs OBJECT TO
PBOPCSEB INCREASE
! Retailors Say State Advisory Hoard
Plans to I'nload Burden
on Tlioin.
WLIiMNfi TO PAV TIIISIR SHAKJO
But Do Not Feel That They Are
Called Upon t*> Meet More Than
One-Fourth of Anticipated Deficit
; in State's Revenuo.
Retail merchants of Virginia are up
I In armii apalnst the recommendation of
! 'I" Stato Advisory Board on Taxation
that tho taxes upon them be Increased
i about fiO per cent, according to Wil
| Hani A. Clarke. Jr., secretary of tho
i \ irglnla Retail Merchants' Association,
| who also occupies tho name oITiee with
j tho Richmond organization.
; Mr. Clarko remained at his offlca
| late Inst night, engaged In receiving
| long-dlstanco telephone messages from
! Merchants In all parts of tho State
, and answering telegrams protesting
| against tho contemplated action of the
i General Assembly.
j "Tho State faces a deficit in tho
neighborhood of $1100,000," said Mr.
Clarke, "and to help make up a part
of this, the reta.il merchants, it is
planned, muat pay one-fourth, or about
$250,000. It Is a hardship, and will
seriously affect the small retailor. We
propose to light it to the end. Mer
. chants all over Virginia are arour.e.l.
| MKIUMIAXTS IJO NOT OIIJKCT
TO IMtKSEXT TAX J.KVY
"W? will certainly protest against
this Increase, which Is in addition to
city taxes. City taxes, especially in
Richmond, aro hicli. Norfolk is for
j tunate in having the easiest taxes upon
| its retail dealers. However, the incr
i chants there are also vigorous in their
rprotests against the proposed increase,
j "Merchants are now paying a tax of
; jr. on the first SI.000 purchase and 110
j on purchases, of $12,000. We have no
j objection to this tax," continued Mr.
| Clarke. "Wo regard it as just and
equitable. In fact." he said, "we have
j advocated this tax of jr> and J10 on the
| first $1,000 and $2,00f? purchases of nier
j chants.
"Rut wo do protest when the State
j wants to call upon us to pay ?250,0??ft,
? or one -fourth, of the deficit which the
! Auditor says Is before tho treasury of
j tho Commonwealth.
j STATE TRUNK TO THROW
m:ui)i:.\ o.v iiktaileii
i "It is a matter of ease to ascertain
! the assets and liabilities of the retail
! merchants, especially tho larger deal
| ors, nnd even should any of theso try
j to dodge paying their taxes to tho
t State, it would he practically Jm
j possible. The Strife Advisory Board
[ wants to throw the burden on the re
! tailers; why don't the members of that
j body get busy and do something about
; the hidden taxes which have been un
i touched?
! "If this plan i^oes through. Richmond
merchants In particular will be handi
capped. Taxes in Baltimore and Wash
, ington will he much less, and It is just
I as plain as A B C. if this increase in
i taxation Is Imposed upon the dealers
! of Virginia, that Washington and lial
! timore shops can undersell us to such
j an extent that the people of this State
i will become their catalogue-buyers.
"The retail merchants of Virginia
want to pay their proportionate share,
but they also want fair play. Tho con
templated law will work a hardship
upon tho retailer, especially the small
dealer.
.MISHCIIAXTS ARK WlLbl.VK
TO PAY TH HI It SUA KID
"This unjust tax will alao affect the
Jobbers as well as tho retail merchant.
"It is a known fact that land taxes
aro omitted in returns made to tho
State. If the Statu Auditor wants to
make, up the delimit, let him go after
these. It is u'; ?'ust that the burden
should be placed upon tho principal
business men of the State. Tho mer
chants are willing to pay their share,
but they want a square deal. If tho
proposed recommendation of tho Ad
visory Board Is enacted Into law, it will
not be a fair one.
"The small dealers all over the State
aro just awakening to the fact of tho
measure now pending in tho General
Assembly, and, I have no doubt, they
will soon como in person to lodge their
protest to their representatives in both
Rouse and Senate."
HATICS 1VICIIB IllinVCBD AT
SPECIAL SESSION I,AST YEAH
Members of tho legislative, committee
of tho Richmond Retail Merchants' As
sociation hold a meeting yesterday af
ternoon and discussed the situation.
No definite action was taken, hut it
was the unanimous opinion that the
(Continued on Second Pago.) ~
! CONSOLIDATE GAME
AND FISH CONTROL
Game Bill Is Recommitted by!
Its Patrons for Extensive
I
Amendment '
i
HOUSE PASSES ANTIVICE BILL|
? I
:
Senate Concurs in Stephenson
Antigambling Measure?Would ;
Regulate Women's Skirts.
!
| Believing that the sentiment in the!
j present I.egislatur<- against the croa
j tion of new ofliees is too pronounced
to asMiro Ilie passajie of tlie gam??
1 ? I?1 In Hh present form, the patrons
j of shis measure. through Delegate'
Willis, of Itoanok". secured its rccoin*'
?mlttal yesterday to allow tin* incor-J
! iVration of amendments which "will'
I overcome tliis difficulty.
I The patrons of the hill, eight hi'
number, have ndrecl on a plan io
j Phue the administration of the game'
law under the Commission of Fish-'
j erics. In order to bring this change
about, they propose to Introduce a '?ill
'.??mending the law i:reallng the Com-,
mission of Fisheries so as to provide'
i for a commissioner of fish and frame
jto have general direction of the law'
! ??nforoenient in these two department", j
.MEANS ,\o DMTIIIM i:.\ r
TO OVSTF.lt IXTEHESTS ;
? Such a device would avoid the crea-i
? tlon of the new ollice of game commls-i
j r,loner contemplated by tlie bill iri Its!
? present form. It is believed by the!
patrons of the trame hill that *.no|
change can be effected without detri-i
.ment to the fish and oyster interests, .
nnd with approximately the garno,
j benefit to the game interests that]
! would flow from the creation of the
I distinct office provided by the un-j
I amended bill.
I Another amennment. which the I
patrons have agreed to accept, provides'
that the local game wardens shall be j
appointed by the proposed State com-]
mlssloner of fish and game from a list
: of candidates to be furnished him by
| the Boards of Supervisors of the
counties.
"While the patrons of the game hill
would have preferred the measure that
was introduced, they are forced toj
recognize conditions and to meet th??m."i
said Delegate Willis yesterday. "There!
is a decided s entiment against the crea-j
tlon of new offices, and, while we have
the votes pledged to pass the hill, it is
not desirable to override the wishes of
a large minority, or frame a measure
so unpopular that It may not ho en
forced."
The bill was on the House cnlendar
yesterday on Its second rending. Upon
the motion of Delegate Willis, shortly i
; Leforo adjournment. It was sent back
; to the Committee on (Jenerul Laws.
: The Other patrons of the bill are Dole
I gateB If. I'. Baker, Henley, Pitts,
i Norrls, "White, B. L>. Adams and Brown.
'lOl'SE ADOPTS IJKOW.MXG
I AXTIVICE 111 I.I,, 82 TO 12
!? or more than two hours yesterday!
the House of Delegates, with galler'es!
cleared of women, debated the Hrovn-i
ing antivice bill. After voting downl
every amendment offered from the floor:
j except one, the House passed the bill!
| by a vote of S2 to 12. It goes now to
I the Senate for concurrence.
j The amendment which was adopted
! rcfl"'res. before a conviction can be
; ^"rcd for a violation of the provision
against the erection, maintenance, use,
! leaso or occupation of any building or
; place for immoral purposes. It must be
i shown that a person "knowingly" per
j mitted such use of premises owned or
i controlled by him. It protects tho
owner of property rented or leased In
, good faith to a tenant who proves later
?to be vicious.
j M:\ATK PASSES STEPHEN.SOX
.WTIGAMIlM.Mi nil^L.
The Senate contributed its share to
j the moral reform program by passing
| the Stephenson antigambling bill,
j which makes It a misdemeanor to play
, at any game for money. The bill was
passed by a vote of 23 to 4. it has nl
j ready received the approval of tho
j House, and goes now to the Governor
j for his signature. The act makes
j gambling punishable by a fine of not
; more than |100 or Imprisonment for
j not more than sixty days, or both.
. Lndor the present statute, no coguiz
anco is taken of gambling unless $20
j or more is lost by an individual during
. any twenty-four hours, or unless the
gambling takes place in a resort main
i tained for this purpose.
The antivice bill is practically a copy
, of tho drastic Iowa law and the law
j under which the city of Washington
closed its segregated district about two
years ago. It provides for injunction
proceedings against ownors and agents!
of property devoted to immoral uses ?
and Is designed to destroy tho social i
evil by striking at its habitation.
DEGXAKES I SE OK HOUSE Poll
IMMOKAMTY TO HE NUISANCE
Tho maintenance, occupation or use
of a house for immoral purposes is tio
elared by tho bill to bo n nuisance
against which any responsible citizen
of the State may maintain a suit in
equity in the name of the State, for
the purpose of perpotually enjoining I
Its continuance.
Section 2 of the bill provides that a I
court, or judge in vacation, shall upon '
the presentation of a bill alleging that ?
tho nuisance exists, sworn to by two
reputable citizens, allow a teinporarv
writ of injunction, without bond. Tho
injunction is rnado binding until dis
solved by the court, and a violation of
it is to be punished as contempt.
Delegate Willis nought to have this
I section amended by striking out tho
words "without bond." Tho umend
j ment was rejected by a vote of 38 to S3
I Tho bill provides that upon tho estab
lishment of tho nuisance charged, tho
contents and furnishings of the house
in which It was conducted shall bo
sold In tho manner provldod for the
(Continued on Thlrd~Pnge.) *
NEK TIIK APIWM.
Passengers using <"!. O. fast trains to
Norfolk can view captured ./.uuinm Appu.ni
uuoliored Newport New*.
DRAWING'DEFENSE'
Two Minority Members on Sub-1
committee to Explain School- j
book Adoption.
WILL MEET AGAIN TO-DAY
Senate May Hear From Iioth j
Sides as to Reasons
for Action.
All day yesterday am] late into last
night a committee of the Stat" ltnard
of Education worked on a report to
the Slate Senate defending course
in Sfhoolboulc adoptions. Whether the
hoard, which meets again to-day. will
sanction the "defense' drawn up by
it.*' connnittee remains to be seen.
Nothing would he given out last night,
nor would the minority members, who
dirt not concur in the school bonlc adop
tion. indicate whether they would to
day concur In a "defense" of a course
of which they had not approved.
Under a resolution offered by Senator
Jeffreys, the State Hoard of Education
was asked to explain why recent
changes in textbooks were niacin. The
issue* 1ms become a live one before th?
General Assembly, and already several
bills aimed at preventing frequent
changes in school textbooks have been
offprrii, while more drastic proposi
tions have also been suggested looking
to a change in the composition of the
State Board of Education, only three
ex-oflicio members?the Governor, At
torney-General and Superintendent of
Public Instruction?being now elected
by the peo^e. These three composed
the minority which objected to the
adoption of books of a higher prion
than were offered by local publishers?
an adoption made by the educator mem
bers not elected by the people.
TWO .MKMRICItS Or
.MINORITY OX SUBCO.MMITTEK
Tiie subcommittee named to draw up
the defense is composed of Attorney
General John Garland Pollard, Superin
tendent It. C. Stearnes and Harris
Hart, superintendent of the schools in
Itoanoke.
If this answer to the Senate resolu
tion is adopted by the State Board of
Education to-day, it may mean that
it will be the sole answer to the Sen
ate of this interesting question. If it
is not adopted, there is room for belief
that a minority report will he
handed in.
When the last book adoption came
up for discussion in 1014, the board in
vited bids on the new adoption. When
these bids were opened, it was found
that the prices on books had been con
siderably advanced, and it was freely
stated that in several instances the
prices were higher than are charged
for the same books in other Stales. A
committee was appointed, and it was
reported that the publishers were ask
ing too much for the books. All bids
were then thrown out and new bids
were called for. All old contracts were
extended for one year, and new com
mittees were appointed t?? investigate
prices.
When the new bids were opened, the
only company, practically, to make any
reduction was the B. F. Johnson Pub
lishing Company, of Ilichmond. This
company reduced its tlrst price by 10
per cent, provided its entire list of
books was retained.
LOCAIj COMPANY I.OST
TO HH.'IIKR niDDKHS
By a vote of f. to 3 the Johnson
company's books wero discarded and
the higher-priced hooks adopted in lieu
of those discarded. Governor Stuart,
Wednesday, February 16
Richmond's
Dollar Day
The Latest Neivs of This Eoenl Will
Be Gicen in The TimcS'Dispalch
on the Morning of the Sale
ARMY BILL ALMOST
READY FOR HOUSE
Main Features Already Whipped
Into Shape With Com
mittee Approval.
HAY CONFERS WITH WILSON
Final Legislation Will Be Worked
Out as Compromise in
Conferences.
WASHINGTON*. February 9.?W'.th
President Wilson personally urging
both Democratic and Ucptihlican mem
bers of the House Military Committee
to hasten preparation of bills to carry
out the army's part in the national
preparedness scheme. Indications" to
night were that the measures miph*
bo ready for the House within two
weeks or less.
Hearings will come to a close to
morrow or the next clay, and It is un
derstood the main features of the bill
already have been whipped into shipe.
which it i?; expected will have virtually
the unanimous approval of the. com
mittee.
The Senate committee already has
concludod its hearings on army bUls,
and will take up the work of drafting
its proposals for the Senate early next
week.
There also the general outline of the
plan to be recommended has crystal
lized in the minds of the members.
The hills of the two houses, it !s ex
pected, will differ radically, and the
final lcRislation will he worked out as
a compromise in conference.
Prepress also was made to-day on
navy legislation, the measures paving
the way for construction of battleships
43 and 44 at navy-yards and providing:
for 300 additional midshipmen in the
July class at Annapolis lielm? passed
by the Senate. They passed the Horse
jesterday. and lack only the Presi
dent's signature to become law.
Speaker Clark, In line with his recent
speech In the Hovse advocating that
the personnel at both Annapolis and
West Point be doubled. Introduced a
hill to-day to make such an increase
In the number of cadets at the Mili
tary Academy.
HAV DISCUSSES PI.A NS
WITH PIIESIDEVT Wll.SOX
Chairman Hay, of the House com
mittee. and several of his Democratic
colleagues, discussed army plans with
President Wilson during the day. at
President Wilson's suggestion. To
morrow Representative Kahn. ranking
Republican member, and others of the
minority will go to the White House
on the same errand. It is understood
the President was pleased with the
report on progress Chairman Hay was
able to give him.
It was evident, however, in latter
proceedings of the committee that
Representative Hay had not been
swayed from his opposition to Secretary
Garrison's proposal for a continental
army, which the President warmly
advocated during his recent prepared
ness campaign trip to the Middle West.
A witness before the committee sr.ld
he was opposed to the continental plan.
"So am I," interjected Mr. Hay. "We
are all."
Democrats and Republicans of he
committee agreed to-night in saying
that the army bill would be quickly
written, although there might he
minor details which would take con
siderable debate to settle. The fea
ture of the House hill, it was said,
would he federalization of the militia!
through a pay hiil carrying limitations
designed to give the War Department
control in peace times over the training
and officering of the National Guard. "
Adjutant-General Foster, of the Flor
ida National Guard, chairman of tno
executive committee of the National
Guard Association. was again in j
Washington to-night, and it was tin-I
dcrstood he would be further consulted, j
in order that the hill might be mad*: 1
acceptable to the State soldiers.
DKSIGXBl) TO SKTTI.K
COXFI.ICT IX .11 TIIOIttTV j
Coupled with the pay feature of the
bill probably will bo Chairman Hay's'
plan to authorize the President to draft
national guardsmen into the Federal <
service immediately in time of war '
This is designed to settle any conflict |
of authority that might arise, and a'soi
to insure that the whole membership of j
the guard will be available for Federal!
uses, the number not being dependent,!
as now, upon how many volunteer.
For the regular army the hill prob-1
ably will provide- 40,000 additional men I
asked for by Secretary Garrison, al-j
though the committee is said to he'
about equally divided on the Hay and'
Garrison plans for making the increase j
Representative May proposes to (illj
existing regiments up to full war
strength and increase only the number
of artillery regiments, while Secretary
Garrison has asked for additional
skeleton regiments of infantry and
artillery to make up tactical divisions.
Opinion of army officers who have testi
fied has been divided on this point, hut
committee members think they can
reach an agreement among them
selves.
An element of the committee favors
oonttnuanco of the practice of govern-i
rnent manufacture of army muniticris, j
and on this aspect of the plans the I
committee will face a struggle wi.lin
its own ranks. Some members believe
that thoso favoring the War Depart
ment's attitude of pVovidlng work
enough for private plants to insure a
big war-time capacity han enough sop
port to secure this end in the bill.
Hearings wore continued to-day on
the bill, with near-Admiral liltio still
on the stand. j
TVCAVK1. nv ROAT TO RAI.TIMORK.
Fare*: IJ.50. ilrn ?la*s: 12.**). second clan*.
York Ulvor t,in?, Office !Ki7 tiaot Main at.
! French and Germans
in Furious Combat
Till". Krenvli Mini lh?' (.primim
hinc been rnitiiKCil In fiirtou*
coinlml on (lie sector of the wentem
battle front lirlHwn I.cum Jir.il
\ rriu. wlirre recently there lin* Item
uri'nl nctlTlt}. Ilerlln report* ?l.at
to the ?vr.i( or tlie luwii \in?> the
(lOrnmuM captured rr^noli position**
o?cr ii length of S?M> ynrds. I'nri*
iilimit<4 ttint flu* lirrninns, nftcr the
ex |i I o.?i?i u of two heavily clinraed
mine*. gniiied n footliolil In portions
of a French trench, luit *nyw that
tlu'v wore driven out by hniiil
Kri'iuxlr n|ln<'k.<i.
SiiulhiTCfit of VIinj-, In tlir vicinity
of tlio rouil nimilnc from ,\cin Illc
| to Thrills, tin- tiemililiM (IIncIiii ruril
another mine iuiiI thru rsia.vfil nn
nttncU npilnil the rrriicli, which
nil* repulsed.
I'liri* nl.io reports tluit tlir French,
in a Krcnnili' nttncU. drove the (itr
niniiH from n m hi nil pout hrtuorn
Solnsons mill lt/iejTns. nml Hint
tiie French butteries luive bnillv
j iliiiiifiucd t.ernuiii organisations in
the forejtt of Apremont, noiitlirnst
? of St. Mililel.
ttu tlir Itnsninn front Iterlln
records the repulse of llu?*inn In ?
fnntry nttneks on several points in
thr Illga region.
BERMUDA HEARS NOTHING
OF REPORTED SEA FIGHT
Cnuhle to Confirm Iteport That
llritish Cruiser Drake Captures
v German Cruiser lioon.
! WITH OCT ADVICES AT HAMILTON"
j .Vows Contained in Message in Code,
Which Xew Vork l'tiper Says Is
J Reliable?British Consulate Lacks
Oflicial Confirmation.
I FA M IT-TON", HKUMUDA, February !?.
i?If a battle has taken place between
; the British armored cruiner Drake and
! the German cruiser Boon off Bermuda,
! nothing is known here of the occur
j rcnce. Numerous inquiries have failed
to confirm the report that the Drake
? attacked and captured the Boon. These
j vessels have not reached this port, and.
so far ns can be learned, no advices
have been received at Hamilton to in
dicate that the Drako has taken a prize
into any other Bermuda port.
; MOW YOI(lv PAPKIl I'HI.VTS
story ok r.oox's CAP'rrnn
'? N'KU' VORK, February 0.?Advices
j received here to-day assert that the
; German warship Boon, alleged to bo
, the captor of the Appam, has been cap
: tured by the British battleship Drake
? after a three-hour fight 200 miles
' east?northeast of Bermuda?according
i to a story printed by the New York
j lOvcnlng Globe.
j The capture or the Boon is said by
? the Globe to have been followed by the
j seizure of two merchantment flying the
German ting, one of which was armed.
The story is contained in a message
which the Globe states it received in
code from a reliable source in Bermuda.
The message reads:
"Drake here to-day towing Boon.
! Took her 2n? knots east?northeast
Bermuda, three hours' runfng fight,
i host Danforth eighteen men. Her losses
j about one-third. .Struck as we came
j abeam. Two merchantmen with her,
I one armed. Took both. Brought here.
! Seagrave on sighting Boon said:
; 'I'lease God, to-day ] will avengo Crad
j dock.' Boon badly knocked about by
? 0.2. Thirty-two officers and 719 men
! taken in the three prizes."
The Seiigravo mentioned In the mes
sage is supposed to bo Captain Sea
grave, who, with Admiral Craddock.
| when the latter went down with his
flagship, the Good Hope, which was
| sunk in an engagement with a German
squadron oil Chile.
There was no Danforth among the
officers in the British navy list.
For several days reports have been
current in maritime circles here that
the Cermnn commerce raider had been
either sunk or captured by the British.
Tho British consulate, however, has re
ceived no official confirmation of this
report.
SMITH-DORRIEN QUITS
ItrlinciiiKhcs (.'nnimnnd of Ilriclsh
Forces in Knst Africa, Iteing Suc
ceeded by fieneml SmntN.
I-ON DON". February 0.?Sir Horace
Dock wood Smilh-Porrien has relin
quished tho command of tho British
forces operating in ICast Africa, owing
to ill health, it was officially an
nounced to-ninht.
General Jan Christian Smuts, the
Minister of the Interior, Alines anil De
fenses of the I'niou of South Africa*
has accepted tho vacancy with tho rank
of temporal y lieutenant-general, the
announcement added.
Bast November, when the Union con
tingents for Fast Africa were being
formed, the government offered the
command to General Smuts. For vari
ous reasons, he was then unable to
accept it.
BARGE SINKS AT SEA
Captain and Orcvr Itesciicil by |,lfe
Guards From ( ape l.ookont
Station.
B 1:3 AC FORT, S. February ?.?The
coal-laden barge St. Nicholas, which
was being towed from Savannah, Ga?
for New York, by the seagoing tug
Kdgar F. Coney, sprang a leak last
night and Bank fourteen miles north
east of Frying Pun Shoals. The cap
tain and crew were rescued by life
guards from th?\ Cape Lookout sta
tion, and arrived here to-night on
tlio lug.
'PUBLIC INTEREST
HURT BY BRANDEIS,
CHARGESTHQRNE
Appeals Against His Confir
mation to United States
Supreme Court.
I MADE FATAL CONCESSION
TO CAUSE OF RAILROADS
j Alleges Prcconccivcd Notions as
to High Returns on Rail
road Investments.
i QUKSTIOX OF KTIIICS K.WSHD
Railroad Commissioner of Iowa on
Si:?ml at Two 1-onjx
Sessions.
\V A S' I If NO TO N', February I'.?Charg
ing thai l.nuis r>. (.ramifis, as counsel
for the Interstate Conimnrcc Commis
sion in the 5 per cent advance rate case,
conceded the cause .if the railroads to
Ihn fatal injury of tho public interest.
Clifford thorne, railroad commissioner
of Iowa, ami an associate counsel irt
the rate ease, appealed to-night to the
Judiciary subcommittee of th<? Senate
not to recommend confirmation of Mr.
Hrandcis's nomination to the Supremo
Court of the United State?.
Mr. Tltorne argued that it would hp
I very costly to the American people to
J put on the Supreme Court bench a man
I with preconceived notions as to high
returns on railroad investments in
view of the fact that questions in
volved in the national appraisement
ot railroads now going on ultimately
would have to be determined by that
tribunal. Summing up his case, he de
clared :
"I have shown conclusively from the
records that Mr. lJrandeis has com
mitted himself to the proposition that
a return on the capital stock of rail
roads of T 1-L' per cent is, to use his
own words, 'rather niggardly.' That
is the return which the Interstate Com
merce Commission unanimously deter
mined was adequate. Further, the in
vestors of this country have decided
that a stock yielding 7 1--.' per cent in
the market places of the country is
worth 100 cents on the dollar. I have
repeat ??illy challenged any one to name
a security which earns that amount
that does not command par or
above par.
UK L| A TBS TO 1M1TKII
OF I'ltOFKSSIO.YAI, KTUICS
"The other proposition which I have
| attempted to show is entirely indepen
dent of the merits of the rate case, and
whether Mr. Brandeis was right or
wrong in his position as to tho ade
quacy of railroad revenue. Tho other
proposition related to a matter of pro
fessional ethics. I have shown vou
that Mr. Urandels was employed bv the
Interstate Commerce Commission "with
specific instructions not to advocato
any particular theory as to the disposi
tion of the case. Ho was asked if he
was willing to take the burden of see
ing that the other side of the case was
developed, and told that the railroad
side would bo adequately cared for. I
have tried to show that Mr. Urandola
had expressed the greatest confidence
in tho presentation of the rate case by
I associate counsel.
| "I have shown that Mr. Urandels co
operated in a friendly manner during
the conduct of tho case with associate
counsel, yet at the critical time, Mr
Urandels. without warning to other
counsol, after all argument had been
closed on behalf of tho public, conceded
entirely to the railroads. Had I known
that such was going to be his position,
had lie advised us of his decision, steps
certainly Mould liavo been taken fop
our protection, and wo would have de
manded on opportunity to bo heard af
ter Mr. H rand els had closed tho argu-,
tneiit for tho.public.
?"Coming from Mr. Urandels, who par
ticipated with us in cross-examination
during the rate case, ami who was em
ployed by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, I consider that his con
cession was practically fatal to the
cause of the public. Our work waa
useless."
Senator Fletcher, questioning the
witness regarding instructions to Mr
Hrandeia in the letter from tho Inter
state Commerce Commission rolatjng to
this employment as counsel In tho rate
case asked if it v as not a fact that
-Mr. Brandt-is was engaged to see that
all sides were taken care of."
ASMiiXlCU TO IU'KDK.v
Or "Tills OTIICtl suny?
Mr. Thome said that there was such
a proposal in tho commission's letter
but later on in tho letter it was apecitl-'
cal y stated that Mr. Brandeis should
undertake the burden of "the other
.M'le, because the commission knew
that the railroads would be adequately
represented.
On cross-examination, Mr. Thorne
?'ii'l he had no information that Mr.
lirandeis had notified tho railroads as
to his conclusion that tho revenues
"ere inadequate, lie argued that Mr."
Hrandeis having reached the conclusion
ho did. he should have retired from the
case, or at least from that phase of
| the case, and notified associate counsel
of his conclusions.
Senator Walsh cross-examined the
I witness about tho "surplus" which Mr.
Thorne expressed a willingness at the
hearings to allow the railroads, ami
which Mr. Brandeis characterized a*
rather niggardly." Senator Walsh
t outended that .Mr. Itramhds was .speak
ing of 1 1-2 or l per cent, as the case
might be. as designed by accountants
to care for nonrovenue-producin;r prob
lems and lean years. .Mr. Thorno In
sisted that Mr. Urandels had in mind
that this 1 1-2 or 2 per cent was
grouped with 6 or 5 1-3 per cent to care
for dividends, thus making a total re
turn or surplus of 7 1-2 per cent.
Mr. Thorne occupied the stand at two
I long sessions of the committee, closing
his testimony Jato to-night. To
