"" "WV "TT-
FIN AN CIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. H.-N0.128
NIGHT
EXTRA
entn
zun?v
T"C
1
PHUjADO&LPIIIA, THURSDAY, ITEBRUAUY 10, 101G.
CoriBiam, 1010, m in Posua Ledou CourjNi.
PRICE OKJQ3 OEtfl?
1
GERMANS WIN
BACK POSITION
ON VIMY LINE
I ftegain Mine Crater and
Capture in uw j. ruuuiius in
Terrific Battle
OFFENSIVE STILL ON
h fright for Possession of Heights
Near Arms upsts Teutons
60,000 Men
j
Tho German offensive In Artols,
u.l una fa ta mnln nlilnrtlvn ttlo
r' Trnicn ii ' .,---
?' possession of tlio heights to tho west
i. Of VImyi IS Sllll UCHlg JHLHHUU. il-
cordlng to oispaicncs iroui uinuun, mo
Teutons liavo lost 00,000 men Jn tho Inst
10 days In this region.
Paris today asserted Unit tho Go -mans
havo failed in their imrposo of
obtaining Important positions, nnd thrt
leveral atacks havo focon repulsed. Tho
French admit the loss of n mlno crater
previously taken from tho Teutons.
Tho .German War Ofllco reports that
they havo taken a portion of tho Frcnc l
tranches In this rojrion. Tho fighting
extends southward as far as tho Somm:
Hlver, where several positions havi
been lost and rcgiilncd by 1 ith sides
during the last week.
Great (Jcrman guns aro hurling shells
upon tho French fortress of Bolfort, on
the eastern frontier of France.
The food crisis in Germany has
reached an alurmlng stage, and sub
stitutes for food nro In great demand,
'(especially fats of nil kinds. This con
dition Is revealed by tho German nows-
- papers.
PARIS, Fob. 10. -A
strong night attack by tho Oormnns
atom? tho road between Xeuville St. Vaast
;nd La Folle was repulsed by tho French,
' It was announced by tho War ofllco to
day. The gicat battle arounl Arras continues
ulth attack nnd counter-attack mingling
with mighty artillery duels. Fighting Is
continuous night nnd day.
The War Ofllco also announced that tho
Germans wore thrown out of communi
cating trenches west of La Folio by an
attack with, grenades.
The text of tho communique follows:
"In Artols the nitlllcry duel has con
tinued from Hill No. 119 as far as tho
rod from Ncuvllle to Thelus. A conflict
jrlth hand grenades enabled im.to drlvo.
ihs, eucjiiy nun) aumu uuiiuiiuiiiiiiiiiiK
benches occupied by him to tho west of
l Folle. v
'Since ntchtfnll thft ficrmnns hnvo
('directed upon our positions on tho road
irom xcuvllle to La folio a severe at
tack, which has thus far been repulsed.
The1! enemy was nblo to gain a foothold
only In one of tho craters, which we had
previously retaken from him.
"To tho south of the Somme, In tho
course of the action reported day before
it,xewruay and yesterday, wo took 00 pris-
JbkI
MAYOR URGES
HIGHER TAX TO
MAKEC1TY GROW
"Legislative Red Ta p e
Makes Borrowing Capac
ity Uncertain"
PROMISES LOAN BILL '
Contlnurd on 1'nce SK, Column One
PHILADELPHIA CREW SAVED -
I? Captain and Six Men of Bark Bruce
i L. Hawkins Rescued From Their
Sinking Vessel
Captain J. A. Mclvor nnd six members
of the crew of the nbnndoned bark Uruco
b- Hawkins, of this city, nro safe at
Newport News, Va.. today, following their
rescue from their sinking vessel about 100
mUes north of Bermuda.
They arrived at Newport Nows yester
y aboard tho British steamship 1'enlee,
taptaln Rlchaids, which took the Imper
iled mariners fiom their Bhlp In the nick
o: time on February 5. Captain Mclvor
"!.n. crew l0Ht everything.
ji i were at tna P'mips for more than
hours with no Hlecp, snld Captain
"civor, who was a mate aboard tho
American steamship Gulfllght when that
"jsel was torpedoed in tho English Chan
.,, 7he Hawkins sprang a leak Feb
ruary 3 during a heavy southerly gale.
5. .cd Pumping nt onco and put her
wore the wind with very little still. Tho
.it fi .ealneo so fust that we threw off
Y.i t,eckload the next day, and just
kl .1 J"8 woro rescued tho ship went
ojr the bow, bursting tho bulkheads. That
rl B?iurdn5' morning."
rne Hawkins, owned by W. A. Finloy,
f Merchantsvllle, Md sailed from MO
WU I0r HUelVn Knnln TnnMnM, S ...III.
.?"' ' "early 400,000 feet of yellow pine
r"i ur tonnage was registered as
lSi ?entee steamed from Genoa,
iaY. for Newport News January 11.
THE WTCATTTTCR
;H?ppy . ,ha, nation that has no history!
Wonall ' no wcn,ner! Oc
EunVV.. .. '" rcau " n" oniciai
xn?. ;n' Notn'nsr of particular slgnln
SKl. .?uJtei on tl,e western tront."
ikf- if i .Si Blves one a 'eo''g of re-
;thfn . """"" in particular occurred,
"ith fh.?8 5 Iar'l:u'ttr was killed. So
Port iaZ VV in?.Te ,s notning to re-
sot hkVk i i BO lne "ewspapera will
tic weaiJ? V5. co,umn or B0 to fran-
f r cor",ulons- but can save that
ml l?L more BBnIBeant news. They
MM tl. a.b0Ut JIr' 00"velt. who is
nt oa , t0 prefer t0 aPPear on the
j,H ol newspapers. He had a very
wramunuV"3886 t0. dellver t0 a ceratn
le-iy- ,b.ut arrived there at the
toeaaiir. u ullZ2ard. He saw with-dls-Kf
th. Vt "ecHons of tho first pages
; ioe papers devnlPl n iha im .i
sUnr ,2h,ave exclaimed with comlo pet.
i3 crilSiir" ever done
'"'.uVatYo'nZr?0' eVen flPP,Ud 'r
nriS,hihdelPliia and vicinity
Vture!0ht Friday, with .
"rat(aila gee page 17,
IOST AND FOUND
r'S?' rl-,cn.cu.l do. tl una wuu.
MA"t, "i4 ,0 l w PlUHUtMil at.!
OCltr' . .-
i Utt na Jr'9u4 Ada 90 hn If
KAISER'S SON QUITS WAR
Prince Osknr was recently severe
ly wounded on the eastern war
front nnd because of a weak
heart, it is announced lie will take
no further part in the fighting.
WREAK HAVOC ON
TOMS IN SMYRNA
200 Moslems Killed, Two
Ships Sunk, Three Maga
zines Burned in Attack
DRAMATIC AERIAL FRAY
ATHHNS. Feb. 10.
Two hundred Turkish soldiers wero
killed, scores lnjuied, three military ware
houses burned and two ships sunk by
French aviators, who made a successful
attack upon Smyrna. Details of tho raid,
which was made by n squadron of seven
aeroplanes, 1110 given in advices received
from illtylcno today. , . . t. . -
Tho aeroplanes rose from warships off
tho const of Asia Minor nnd nppenred
above Smyina Just after sunrise. Fire
from nnti-nlrcrnft guns wns Immediately
opeifed upon tho daring French Illers and
two German aeroplanes rose to meet
them. Tho French aviators touted their
aerial opponents in a conflict lasting only
a few moments, nnd then proceeded with
their work o. destruction.
Four bombs wero dropped with mathe
matical precision upon a group of build
ings in which supplies for the Turkish
troops were stored. Threo of theso caught
flro nnd burned rapidly. Two bombs
smashed a section of tho Ottoman bar
racks, killing or wounding all the soldiers
there.
As tho French aeroplanes departed thoy
dropped seven bombs upon Turkish ship
ping In tho harbor. Two vessels weto sunk
at their docks nnd three others damaged.
Advance in Tax Rate Will Be
Necessary if Other Means
of Revenue Fail
Tax Increase Reasons
Explained by Maior
"Wc can't start improvements
unless we have the money."
"Tho people for many years havo
been crying for public improve
ments, but they would not stand
for an increase in the tax rate."
"Plnce the weapons in our hands,
nnd we will make rapid progress
during the next four years."
"We stand committed to rapid
transit lines, South Philadelphia
improvements, the completion of
the Parkway and other improve
ments, but above all, the rebuild
ing of the Philadelphia General
Hospital."
"The Philadelphia General Hos
pital is nn unfit -home for the
people forced to live there."
SLAVS DESTROY SEVEN
AIRCRAFT OF ENEMY
An Increase in the tax rnte, If that la
found to be necessary In order to build
tho inpld transit lines, the Convention
Hall, the Parkway mid the other Improve
ments that havo been planned, was ad
vocated today by M.i.sor Smith.
Speaking at a luncheon of the .lovinn
League, nt the Adelphla. the llayor
placed befnip the people of Philadelphia
this pioposltlmi:
IT I'll llndi-liili In vuimIh rnplil Irnn
Mlt llnrx, a roiif I'lilhin hull. n iirl
museum, 11 free library, I he I'arU
n eomplelcil, (lie Nnrthcnxt
Hmiletiiril IIiiIhIh-iI. 11 new Philadel
phia (ienernl Hospital mid I lie other
Improve menlH to Mlileli the people
coiiiiiilttfeil UiritiNelirK nlien tliey
elected I1I111 Mil) or, the miiNt Mtnnil
mi InereiiMe In the (av rate, If (lie
money fur tlienc ImpriiveiueiitN enn
imt he obtained In nny oilier way.
Tho Mayor declared that "legislative
red tape" was responsible for the delay
In the drafting of the loan bill that will
mnko tho lmpiovementa possible. Tho
executives of tho city havo been unablo
to determine tho city's borrowing capa
city, bo said. Ho promised, however,
that the loan bill would be drafted soon.
"PEOPLE MUST CO-OPERATE."
The Mayor nlso declared In favor of a
complete reconstruction of Hlocklcy. no
went on rocoid as being opposed to tho
expenditure of more than tho $1,418,000 now
available for tho eoiiMtitictlon of tho pro
posed Convention Hall.
Ho advocated the Increaso In the tax
rate when ho uns speaking of the failure
HELVIDERE BROOKS
Vice president of Western Union
Telegraph Company, who died
today.
BELVIDERE BROOKS,
MESSENGER BOY AT
11, DIES W.U. CHIEF
PUPILS' STRIKE
OPENS CITY-WIDE
SCHOOL PROTEST
Germantown Parents In
vite Co-operation of All
Sections in Complaint
QUICK NEWS
ATTACK BOARD METHODS
"We Provide the Children; Why
Can't Wc Have a Say About
Teachers?" Is Slogan
End Comes Suddenly to Man
Who Became Second in
Command of Telegraph
System
HARD WORK HIS SLOGAN
Not a Russian Plunc Lost in Aerial
Campaign
' PETROGRAD, Feb. 10 Russian avia
tors are now more than holding their own
ln conlllcts with German nlrinen. It was
announced today that during tho last
three weeks battlos In tho air have re
sulted In the destruction of sK German
aeroplanes and a Zeppelin airship with
out tlie loss of a single Russian machine.
In the same timo Russian aerial squad
rons have Inflicted heavy daniaKa on tho
military establishments nnd railroads be
hind tho German front.
I1RITISII COAST DEFENSES
DAMAflED, BERLIN SAYS
Seaplane Raid Wrought Considerable
Havoc
RERUN, Feb. 10. Considerable damame
Is believed to have been caused to Ilrltlsli
coast defenses nt the mouth of the
Thames River by two German aeroplanes
which dropped bombs yesterday after
noon and then returned safely to their
base.
Although ured ipon by lilghaiiglo guns
and pursued by Rritlsh aeroplanes the
German machines wero not damnKCd.
The attack was mado only 20 miles
from Folkestone and Dover, the two chief
ports of debarkation for troops going to
Franco and the main points from which
the army supplies are shipped.
Continued tin I'iirb Tnn, Column One
RITUAL AND SYMBOL
REND CHURCH; VESTRY
AT N0RRIST0WN QUITS
One Member, However, Thad-
deus S. Adel, Holds His
Ground to Fight High
Churchism of Rector
WANTS OLD-TIME SERVICE
TRUPPEFRANCESISON
SBARCATE A VAL0NA
Aristide Briand Ricevuto En
tusiasticamente a Roma.
l Gli Austriaci a Durazzo
ttu a Stag Correspondent
XORRISTOWN. Feb. 10. Five mem
bers of tho vestry of All Saints' Kplsro
pal Church, Haws avenue nenr Airy
streot, have resigned because too much
ritual has been introduced into tho serv
ices by tho Rev. Edward R. Xoble, the
rector. One of the vestrymen, David II.
Hallman. was an original vestryman
when tho church was first built, 26 years
ago. Until a year ago the church has
been extremely "low."
The five vestrymen who resigned are:
David II. Hallman. J. D. Satiado, Wil
liam il. Wood, Vandorseii Tyler and
Lemuel Zimmerman. Thaddeus S. Adel.
Thomas Neale, Wentworth Harrison and
Nicholas h. Moon are still on the vestry.
It is said that fully a hundred of the
older parishioners have lefused to come
to the services while Sir Noble Is In
charge. Tho 350 communicants on the
NEW YORK, Feb. lO.-HelvIdere itrooks,
vice picsldent nnd general malinger of
tho Western I'nlon Telegraph Company,
jlled suddenly today nt his home on Itlvcr
sldo dilve. lie wns at bis desk yesler
day and did not complain of feeling HI.
Mr. Ilrnoks wns essentially n self-mudo
man, ilsing from a messenger boy to be
second In command of the greatest tele
graph system In tho world. He was 03
years old.
When a boy of 11 years Mr. lliooks
entered tho servlco of the Western Union
as a messenger In Navazoln, Texas. Per
sistence and Industry won him piomotlon,
nnd ho went forward with rapid stildes.
Within live month nfloi incoming a
messenger boy Mr. lliooks had nmstered
telegraphy, and by tb" time he wns 12
ho wns a full-flodgeil oporutoi After
serving in vnrlous towns, the ambitious
young Texan went 10 Waco, where he
became manager of the Western I'nlon
nlllco. From tlmrr he went to (Jnlve.i
ton nnd finally to Denier, wheie in tlmo
ho became manager of the impoitant
Western Vnlon olllce In that city.
I.lko many other successful men, Mr.
Ilrooks wan born on n farm, but agricul
tural pursuits were not to Ids taste, so
ie,docldpdiu. gj, tolhii'lt tu -make' -Ills
fortune. Although he bad virtually n;i
schooling, this deficiency was inst nnd
overcomo by his ambition and study nt
night.
Mr. DrwikH' talents were so marked
that he attracted the attention of the ex
ecutlves of tho Western I'nlon. and In
1902 ho wns brought east and made super
intendent of the Eastern Division. ICIght
yenrs later lie was made general manager
of tho entire Western L'nlou pystem.
After his promotion to the cueral man
agership, Mr. Ilrooks was inter lowed on
the secret of his success.
Ho declared that tho answer was "hard
work and application."
"Tho chances for boys today aro greater
thnn they ever wero before," declared
Mr. Rrooks. "All that Is necessary Is
devotion to the work they aro doing."
Mrs. Ilrooks, ns well 11s her husbnnd,
wns n natlvo of Texas. She died In 1913.
Two developments In tho uprising of
Cicrmaiitnwn public school pupils and
thrlr pn rents .ignlnst tho action of tho
Uo.ud of lMucntlon In refusing to rein
Mate Wllllnin II. Sowdcn in prlnclpnt of
tho Filler School, Seymour nnd Knox
J (treptii. nppenred todnj.
I tine was that the kiII,o of the pupils.
ni n nig. organized strike, ns It has been,
l'i Initially at nn end. Only 30 boys,
ringleaders 111 the opposition t tho new
regime under .Miss Margaret Is. Oill, the
new principal, remained out of school
today, i..i Ing that tho others should not
stirrer the penalties threatened by the Hu
iciiu of 1'iimptilMii-y Kducatlon exiling of
tho 'Milking boys pud girls to truant
schools and lining or Imprisoning of their
patent:'.
The I!0 said they would stny out on
pilnclple nnd to provide test cases If their
parents should be taken before Magis
trates. The other nnd more Important develop
ment wus the movement to make the pro
test fnr more gcncial thnn the mere
doninnd for the reinstatement of Mr.
Sowdcn. This protest has assumed the
proportions of a campaign against the
methods of the Hoard of Education In
general, nnd tho parents of pupils In all
sections 'of the city as well as Get man
town havo been Invited to Join in tho
protest, along with patilotlc societies and
other orgaulatlons.
Tho slogan of those who aro leading
tho movement Is this:
Wo provide the children and tho
money for their education. Then why
should wo not havo some say In tho
wny they are to bo brought up? Why
should we not have some say as to
tlto kind of persons who shall bring
our children up, some say us to the
kind of scholarship, social, 1 elisions
and political requirements, of tho per
sons to whom wo entrust their edu
cation and disciplining?
Pupils of tho Fitter School went to all
parts of Germantown today distributing
8000 circulars which havo been printed for
them to tho parents of school children In
that section, lining their suppoit of tho
AMERICAN MINING MAN SLAIN BY MEXICAN BANDITS
EL PASO, Tex , Feb. 10. Word was received here today that
Guy Johnson, nn American mining man, has been slain by Mcxlcnn
bandits near Ocampo, State of Chihuahua.
GARMENT STRIKERS ATTACK BROADWAY SHOP
NEW YORK, Feb. 10. While thousands of pedestrians ln Broad
way looked on 50 striking garment workers this afternoon attacked
the shop of the Kosenberg Mnuufactuilng Company, where a score
or moie of shirt manufacturers refused to obey the strike order.
When police reserves renched the scene a pitched battle was raging.
Six women wore arrested,
CHARLIE WHITE TO REFEREE BIG BOUT
NEW YORK, Feb. 10.-Clinrlle White wns this afternoon chosen
as lelcice for the Jess Wlllard-Emtik Koran fight nt Mndlsou Square
Garden on March 8. ,
REMINGTON ARMS GETS CHARTER IN NEW JERSEY
TK13NTON, Feb. 10. Permission to mnnttfncturc munitions In Now Jcrse
was granted tho Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Company, of Con.
ncctlctit, tinder papers issued today by Secretary of State Martin. Tho com
pnny 1h capitalized at $GO,000,000. of which $BO,000,000 has been Issued.
AUSTRIA COMPLETES DISARMING MONTENEGRIN ARMY
VIKNNA, Feb. 10. Tho disarming of Montenegrin troops by their Aus
trlnn conquerors has been completed, snld nn olllclal statement Issued today,
COAL OPERATORS REJECT MINE RUN DEMAND
MOH1LE, Aln Feb. 10. The mine run demand wns rejected today by
representatives of tho coal mlno operators In Joint conference- with tho Wage
Scale Committee of tho United Mlno Workers. Tho 10 per cent. Increaso on
ton rates was then tnken up. Tho mlno workers say they will stand pat
for their demands.
Continued nn I'iirc 1'our, Column Three
REMINGTONS LEASE U. S. RANGE
Hide Makers to Test tho Weapons
Near Lester
Property of the United States Govern
ment In Delaware County will be used by
tho Remington Arms Company to test
lilies made for the Russian Government.
It Is said that the company has arranged
with tho Government to lease part of
tho 1st Brlgado ritlo range near Lester.
A Philadelphia contractor has been
given tho contract for tho new range,
nnd it is believed that woik will be
started In preparing It for uso eatly next
week.
PLOT TO BETRAY SECRETS OF U. S. FORTS TO BE PROBED
UOSTON, Feb. 10. Dictograph evidence obtained by Secret Servlc
operatives nnd said to Indicate a plot to betray secrets of Boston harbor
fortifications will bo presented to tho Federal Grand Jury next Tuesdny, accord
ing lo reports today. Tho dictograph evidence was obtained by detectives,
who hid themselves in nn olHco adjoining the ono under suspicion. According
to these detectives 11 man wearing tho uniform of tho United States army visited
tho room and explained what appeared to bo maps of Boston harbor fortifications.
CAPTAIN OF TOURAINE FEARED S. O. S. WAS A LURE
NEW YORK, Feb. 10. Fearing that a German commerce raider was luring
his ship to destruction, Captain Caussln, of tho French liner Touralner refused
to answer the wlrelesH distress signal sent out by an unidentified vessel while
en routo from Bordeaux to New York.
Professor Cauioy, of Sorbonno University, one of tho Touraln's pas
sengers, reported that a ship flying tho Spanish flag, but presumed to be a
German, wns discovered sowing mines Just outside Bordeaux Harbor 'tho day
before tho Touralno snlled. Two French vessels gave chase, and tho steam
ship, striking one of the mines she had Just dropped, wna torn by the explosion
and sank Immediately.
Contlnurd on I'mct) Fonr, Column One
Agc'd Man's Death Probed
Tho Coroner today Is investigating the
death of Julius Blttner, 73 years old, who
wa3 found overcome by gas In the kitchen
of his home, 621 North 2d street, last
night, dying later 'In the Jewish Hos
pital. Ills soni Herman Blttner, said he
believed his father accidentally discon
nected a gas tube during an attack of
vertigo.
ACCUSED OF DESERTING
WIFE OX WEDDING TRIP
Vincent Redmond, Heir to $G8,000, Ar
rested in Camden
Vincent Redmond, of HO South 21th
street. Camden, who Inherited an estato
of J0S.000 from his brother seven years
ago, was arrested today In Camden nnd
neld for requisition papers to be taken
to Pennsylvania, charged with deserting
his wife while on the wedding trjp.
According to tho Camden police. Red
mond married immediately after he ob
tained his brother's fortune. He and his
wife took n trip around the world and he
left her, tho police say, as they were about
to return to Camden. Tho warrant wa
sworn out by Mary Redmond, who gave
her address as H43 Poplar street, Phila
delphia. Inquiry there developed that no
woman of that name resided there.
BANK TELLER LEAPS
TO HIS DEATH MM
GIRARD AVE. BRIDGE
TURKS RESUME ARMENIAN MASSACRES
-GENEVA, Feb. 10. Tho Turks havo resumed tho massacre of tho
ArmenlnnsgWho escaped previous outrages, according to dispatches printed
by tho Geneva newspapers today. Thousands of men and boys ,havo been
shot, the dispatches 'stated, and the girls sent to Constantinople- to bo sold
Into Turkish hnrems.
MISSING ORISSA, CRIPPLED, REACHES PORT
NEW YORK, Feb. 10. Tho British liner Orissa, which, it was rumored,
had been sunk or captured by a German commerce raider whilo en rbute
from Rio do Jnnlcro to Liverpool, has put into "the French port of St. Nnzalre
in a crippled condition, according to a dispatch received here. These advices,
explaining why tho liner was eight days overdue at Liverpool, said she had
struck a rock. No lives wero lost, it was stated.
James A. Carrigan, Long a Suf
ferer From Insomnia, Ends
His Life in the Schuyl
' kill River
LEFT FAREWELL NOTE
Woman Probably Fatally Burned
SNATINGTON', Pa.. Feb. 10-Mrs. Saruh
Williams, 70 years old, was probably
fatally burned while preparing a tiro
under a butchering vat. Her clothing
becamo Ignited and she ran screaming
from the house. Her son rolled her in
the snow and succeeded In extinguishing
the names only after the woman had re
ceived serious injuries.
City Has Balance of $9,629,801
The weekly statement of City Tieasuror
William McCoach shows that the receipts
amounted to 13.512,00 and the payments
to J533.OS7.02, which, with tho sum on hand
last week, not Including the Sinking Fund
account, left a balance of $,629,S01.79 at
the close of business last night,
A man believed to bo James A. Carri
gan, 31 years old, nn assistant teller In
tho Philadelphia National Rank, 1th and
Chestnut stieets, peeled off bis coat eaily
this morning on tho upper trestle of the
G I raid avenue bridge and. In full view of
many pedestrians, bulled himself over
nnd, spinning, fell 100 fret below into the
Schuylkill River. He disappeared In the
muddy waters beforo aid could reach him.
Tho police boat Rescue Is still giappllng
for the body.
Some tlmo early today Carrigan left his
home, at 1523 Wallace street. For two
years ho has suffoied from insomnia, and
obtained a short leavo of absence from
tho bank when It first began to trouble
him. He has extended this so that be
has not been back to the bank since.
A letter was found in the man's room
later In the morning by his aunt. Airs.
William J. Fleming. It was addressed
to his mother, nho Is Si years old. Ill
the letter, Carrigan, who Is a bachelor,
said thut be wus going to Jump In the
Schuylkill because he could not stand It
any longer not to be able to sleep. Ho
said his accounts were In line shape, and
AUTO LICENSE RECEIPTS TO DATE, $1,201,709
HARIUSBURG, Pn Feb. 10,-Recelpts of tho automobile division of tho
State' Highway Department up to nnd including February 9, 1916, are .$1,201,709,
The total receipts for the year 1914 were $1,184,646.00. It Is expected that tha
receipts from tho registration and licensing of motor vehicles in Pennsylvania
tor luib will exceeu $2,ork,ooo.
CHINESE REBELS CAPTURE LUCHOW
SHANGHAI, Feb. 10. Chinese rebels have captured Luchow, in
southern part of Sze-Chuen Province.
tho
PRESIDENT NAMES NEW DEPARTMENT SOLICITOR
WASHINGTON, Feb.. 10. President Wilson today sent to tho Senate th
nomination of Alexander T. Vogelsong, of San Francisco, to bo solicitor to til
Department of the Interior, to succeed Preston C. West, whose term has explrid.
HEAVY INCREASE IN STEEL ORDERS
NEW YORK, Feb, 10, An increaso of 110,517 tons was reported in th
unfilled orders of tho United States Steel Corporation as of January 31. Tlta
total amount on the books was 7.922,767 tons, compared with 7,806,220 on
December 31 and 4.248,571 on January 31, 1915,
Continued on I'ueb Two, Column l'our
COLONEL HOUSE TO SAIL FOR HOME F.EB. 20
LONDON, Feb. 10. Colonel E. M. House, confidential agent of President
Wilson, expects to sail for New York on February 20. Ho has mado no arrange
ments to meet British officials, but probably will see Premier Asqulth and Sir
Edward Grey, Foreign Secretary, before leaving.
Va tolegramma d Roma d.ce che
truppe alleate soiiq bbarcato a Yalona per
rlnforzarvl quelle italiane e srbe cho
Vl si trovavano dt gla Valona ara' at
taccata dalle forae bulgars che maroiano
lentamente attraverno TAIbanla unrldlon
ale e sono glunte, st dice, a Herat, cioe
a circa 36 mlglla da Valona. fc, powlblle
che truppe francesl slano partite da Corfu
e slano ibarcate a Valpna.
Un telegramroa: da Cettlgne 'dice che le
forze austrlache cha avanzavano su
Durazxo sono giunte a quella cltta e
l'hanno occupata.
B glunto oggl a Roma II president del
CoMlgllo franc. Artotlde Brljiiul, con 11
mlnUtro Thomas e gli altri del seguito.
Ball e' stato rtcvuto mtuiatleamente
dalla popotazlone che 1 attollava' davantl
alia stazione.
(Leggare In 8 pagina 1 ultlia a piu
dtfuglbite notizle ulla sierra, la
IUUubo.)
Evening Ledger Circulation
For Six Months)
Daily Average for August . .
Daily Average for Sept., .
Daily Average for 0?t.v .
Daily Av. for Nov.,
95,618
100,608
. 102,185
94,801
Daily Av. for Dec, 96,785
Daily Av. for hm, 99,214
The foregoing figures represent the actual net paid droit
lation of this neivspaper, eliminating all returned and free
copies.
OMNIBUS BILL FOR ALL
REVENUE LEGISLATION
Repeal of Free Clause in Under
wood Tariff Bill Will Save
40,000,000
WASHINGTON'. Feb. lO.-Tbe Demo
cratic members of the Ways and Means
Committee today virtually agreed upon
the Incoiporation of ail revenue bills in
ono omnibus bill. This Includes income
tax revision, a tariff commission, taxa
tion of war munitions and possibly an
Inheritance tax.
They also united to vote tomorrow on
a resolution for total repeal of the clause
In the Underwood tariff act placing sugar
on the free list on May 1 last. This wilt
prevent a loss of JW.WO.000 to the Govern
ment Treasury.
Majority leader Kitchin, at today's
meeting, announced the Democratic mem
bers of the committee favored outright
repeal of the free sugar clause and not
mer.ly suspension of the operation of the
clause.
Secretary Lowry of sugarcane growers'
associations, today urged the Democratic
members to recommend an excise tax of
half a ent a pound on sugar, to b as
sessed at lb renaerte.
ROME CROWDS WELCOME PREMIER BRIAND
RQMK. Feb. 10. Romo wna decorated in Italian and French colors today in
honor of the arrival of the French Premier Aristldo Briand and his party, and
crowds gave the visitors an enthusiastic reception. Premier Briand will occupy
the apartment formerly reserved for tho use ot J. 1. Morgan at the Grand Hotel.
Several receptions will be held before the party leaves for tho front Saturday
night to confer with King VJctor Emmanuel.
SWISS GUARD ARMS PLANTS AGAINST PLOTTERS
BERNE, Feb, 10. Military guards today were placed nround all Swiss
ammunition factories as the result of the discovery of a plot to blow them up,
WINNIPEG OPENS WAR RELIEF CARNIVAL
WINNIPEG, Man., Feb. 10. Twelve thousand Canadian fighting men
marched through the streets of Winnipeg today in Cannda's great militant
pageant, opening the carnival to raise funds for wounded and disabled Canadian
soldiers. Several thousand pretty girls participated in the parade.
RUSSIAN TROOPS PUSH BACK FOES IN PERSIA
PARIS, Feb. 10, Russian troops operating in Persia are steadily push
ing back mixed forces of Kurds, Turks and other irregulars, commanded by
German officers, according to advices received here today.
50 BOMBS SEIZED IN RAID ON LISBON ANARCHISTS
LISBON, Feb. 10. The police raided an anarchist bomb factory today, con.
flscatlng .ten loaded and 40 unloaded bombs, many pistols and a great quantity
of explosives.
WILSON WILL NOT MAKE ANOTHER LONG TRIP
WASHINGTON. Feb. 10. President Wilson told caller at th Wblta How
today that lie did not Intend making another long trip In bebalfW hi pre
paredness program. He said, however, that from time is time lt probably
would make short trips from Washington, during wnleh be wotiid make om
or two speeches,
