Wis.
$100,000 B. R. T. GIFT ADMITTED BY WILLIAMS
VVEATHErt Fair to-nlghl and Frldsyj colder.
Jll EDITION
"Circulation Books Open to All."
1 "Circulation Books Open to AW
CowH& &' $uxMMMm NEW YORK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1916.
16 PAGES
PBIOE ONE CENT.
PRICE ONE CENT.
fmAL
JH CDTOW
$2,500 TO QUIGG "NEAR TO WHITMAN"
GUNMEN NAME MEN WHO HIRED THEM TO KILL BAFF
fflE MORE ARE ARRES1ED
FOR
KILLING
.Three of Seven Now in Cus
tody Disclose Plans to Kill
Poultry Dealer.
JELL WHO HIRED THEM.
Gillespie's Note on "Whitman's Closest Adviser'
And $2,500 Check Paid Quigg Two Months Later
Detectives Out to Arrest Men
Higher Up Who Were
Named in Confessions.
The names f the men who Insti
gated and paid for the murder of
Barnet Baft wro Riven to the police
this afternoon by Frank Kcrrnra, tho ,
driver of the murder car, Gluseppl Ar
oallo. who In accused of having died
o '-. ehots, I ono of tho three
other gunmen taken Into custody la'.o
this afternoon.
Uotectlves wero Immediately sent
out to arrest f-e men named as the
Instigators of tho murder. They arc
wld to bo njembers of ''to "ioultry
pullers" association, who operated
nrnund WiiHhinKtun Market.
Hoth Arcallo and Kerrnra made a
full statement of their part in tliu
Former St. Regis Stenographer
Sues Ex-Capt. Flanagan of
the United States Navy.
The persistency of Miss Anne Sul-
llvun. former public stenographer at
tho St. Ilcfrts Hotel. In holding out for
a settlement of $100,000, led to tho
discovery to-day that she has brought
suit for $200,000 damages against
Capt. James Wolnwrlght Flanagan, U.
S. N.. retired, and mllllonalro Mexluin
mlnn owner, for refusing to marry hor
tho day before '-o wedded Hazel Bird
Hrown. daughter of u Oenver rallllnw!
aire. - .
Tho young woman had planned to j
settle tho suit fiuiotly anu avoiu pud
Hoverobor 19, 1914
PERSOKAL & COITPIIEHTIAL
Mr. D. L. OilleBpta. i,1',
Henry vr. 01iw 3ulldlns,
Pittsbute. Pa.
Dear Lim-
Confidentially, I have Just talked to Lemuel Qulgg
vho is the nearest ram to Qovornor -Elect Whitman an.l he advloes against
Whitman accepting your Invitation. He la one of his cloaoRt .idvinra
and nays it Is almost itrrposslblo to set naar ah it arm for the office-
sookDrs running after him. bat l got In touch with Quigg yesterday and
QUIGG
, AS-
GOT (CONFIDENTIAL) LETTERS
FOLLOWED BY $2,500 CHECK
1
Contractor Who Handled the 15 Per
Cent. L Tracking Contract De
scribed Him as "Nearest Man
to Whitman."
TR8
CRASS
ajain
crlmo, nlthough Arcallo donleu that iic..v. Ull. sho w:mted between $76.
he actually fired tho shots that killed 000 and $i0o,000 damages, according
Baft. All of tho cunmon arrested
lato to-day havo admitted riding In
tho murder car on flvo different occa
sions looking for Haff and each time
thoy wero met by a young Hebrew
who Instructed them us to whero Haff
was to bo found.
ThlH man persistently fobowed
them and urged them to hurry tho
murder. Detectives have been trail
ing him and ho will bo Immediately
arrested. Seven men wero held In
the murder case up to Uto this after
noon. Arcallo was confronted by l'ranl;
Kcrrnra at Police Headquarters this af
ternoon. 'Kerrnra positively identified
him as tho actual murderer of lJafT.
Arcallo, an undersized convict, who wn3
brought hero to-day from Naponoch
Reformatory, trembled with rago and
shouted denials as ho heard himself
accused. Later he collapsed and con
fessed. "Oluseppl and the other man wero
the fellows I took down to kill Haff."
Kcrrara said when ho was taken into
tho office of Deputy Commissioner
Scull, whero Arcallo was being exam
ined. "When they got out of tho au
tomobllo in Washington Market Ar
callo put his gun under his coat and
told mo to keep tho engines of the
(Continued on 4th Pago, 2d Column.)
FOUND DAZED IN STREET.
Man Ilellrvrtl to lie Dr. Irtlnir If
Ilurllne Ilntl V.'nnml III Ileml.
A man believed to bo Dr. Arthur H.
Burling of No. 2203 Walnut Street
mitluilplnliln. was found In a duziu!
condition on the Mall Street aide or the
Pmt OfflcH to-dav. He had a fresh
wound In his heud and was taken to
the Hudson Street Hospital.
A French DasiDort found In his Docket
bowed that a Dr. Burling had been
ervlng with tho American Ited Cross
ambulance service.
Family IMvlilrn llriiiiimoiut IXntr
Michael J. Drummond, who died on
Jan. 22. 1916. leaving an estate of more
than $5,000 realty and morn than (10,000
peruonalty. In his will filed to-day for
prouaie no ieii ma cniiru eaiuie hi cqum
shares to ms wiaow anu nvo cnuarcn.
COLDS THAT HANG ON
Yield Promptly to Father John's Medl
cine 8fe for All the Family.
Colds that hang on, stubborn coukUo,
sore throats are dangerous uocnukn they
le&a uj nioro uriuuo uiBr,wi'. iu-kiii iu- : uervicn in tho
.,'!;' Cuban campaign. M
-xl.. n.nhln. AhlnrnfonA .11 during tllO tlllSC'llCO O
other dangerous djuim, sidTt
to her former attorney,
Capt. Flanagan ai.-l Miss Sullivan
first mot at a Chicago hotel, whero
she was a stenographer, and ho dic
tated to her frequently. Later he
wroto her many lettors. After a'ycar
Miss Sullivan camo to Now York and
uguln met Capt. l'Managan, who was a
guost at tho Hltz-Carltou. Sho ob
tained a position us public stenogra
pher at tho St. Ilcgis and saw muoh
of tho Captain. During this time, sho
alleges, the promlso to wed was mado
by tho former nnvul olllccr and she
prepared to leavo her position and
establish herself In a luxurious homo
as his wife.
This dream was interrupted, for tho
day before she was to be wedded sho
rood In a nowspnper t'.. t Capt. Flan
span hud married Miss Drown and
that ho had given her Jewels valued
in the neighborhood of $100,000. She
never saw tho captain after that, she
alleges.
Lato in 1914 sho Instructed her at
torncy, lllchard J. Donovan, to bring
suit. An action was hecrotly tiled in
Hlchmond County, Two days after
thn suit was filed sho Instructed Mr.
Donovan to withdraw It. Sho ex
plained tbnt sho feared tho disgrace
attached to tho action would cause
hor dismissal from tho St. Regis.
Negotiations for a settlement began.
Attorneys for Capt. Flanagan wroto
Miss Sullivan offering her 1,000, tho
papers set forth. When sho refused
tho offer was Jumped to $2,000, and
on their own responsibility his law'
yers offered 13,000. Mlsi Sullivan
laughed at this, also at a proposition
to settle ft.- $12,000, and told hor law
yor sho wanted $75,000 or $100,000.
Capt. Flanagan during thin tlmo
was In Mexico, and ho refused to
settle at Miss Sullivan's figure.
"I nm down and out physically
and financially but I um willing to
pay tliu parties l,wu," t Do captain
wrotu from Mexico to his lawyers,
Hornblower, Miller, I'ottor & Kurlo,
"but," ho continued, "I will pay this
only on a complutn Mirrender of all
tho papers now In her possession.
Kven ut this figure 1 will havo to
nuiko greut personal sacrifices to
ralso that amount of money."
When her former wooer's letter
was shown to Miss Sullivan, sho
directed her now lawiM J. J. o'L'on
nell, to resnino tho milt. ,
("apt. Flanagan met Ms nsent
wlfo wlulo hf was In ( uba. II" ,a
nav in tliu
rs. 1'lamigim,
t her husband
Is llvlnc at the Waldorf-Astoria,
N -529.
NkwYokk.
Lx.. 2 .101
Pay to thk order ok
t k. ' aT m .
'lLJ'SSfes- HOLLAR!.
rA.cE CHECK
FIELD COVERED WITH DEAD
AS GERMANS ATTACK FRENCH
ON HILLS COMMANDING LENS
! 1 00,000 GIFT FROM
German Losses Greater Than
Those of the British
Army at Loos.
LONDON, Feb. 10. Herman losses
In tho flcrco fighting going on for
nearly ten days for tho Vlmy IJolgbts
and along the Sommo, south of Arras,
havo totalled 60,000, mora than tho
Hrltlsb suffered In the September of
fensive at Loos.
Tho lighting Is proceeding with
groat fury In a heavy snowstorm, ac
cording to latest despatches from
Paris. Tho French nro counter-attacking
with great vigor near tho
Ncuvllle-La Folio road, whero the
Germans claimed the capture of half
a mile of French trenches In Tuesday
night's fighting. Their objective Is
tho Vlmy Heights, overlooking tho
plain sweeping down toward tho cities
of Lens and Dou.il, held by tho
Cormaus.
Around Frlse artillerymen on both
sides nro very active. French gun-
nets havo poured a hl.i&ilng tire in
I i nun tho vlllauo of Krln(i llsolf.
pounding to ruins the few buildings
that escaped previous bombardments.
Ily mining operations and .attacks
with hand grenades tho Teutons are
seeking to improve their positions on
this front and sevcio :iaml-io-Iianri
lighting has lesultud.
Fresh bodies of troops luw .fini-d
ut the Uermun fiont !u I'l.tndtrs. but
other forces hao lit en withdrawn in
tho past few days. Tliu opinion pre
Yitiit) hem that the Uermaua aro &
gaged In ono of the periodical "re
shuffling" processes.
BERLIN, Feb. 10 (via London).
Tho capture from thn French of a,
largo ucctlon of a trench northwest of I
Vlmy, in tho Artols region, was an
nounced by Gorman army headquar
ters to-day. The report says:
"Northwest of Vlmy wo captured a
largo trench section from tho Kronen,
and In tho neighborhood of Neuvlllo
wo conquered ono of tho creators pre
viously lost. Fifty-two prisoners and
twenty-two machine guns remained in
our hands.
"South of tho Sommo sovoral local
attacks by tho French wcro repulsed.
Directly north of Uecqulncourt tho
cnomy succeeded In obtaining a foot
hold In n small section of our fore
most lino trenches.
"On CombrcH Hill wo destroyed an
enemy mlno position by an explosion.
A French mining operation northeast
of Celues, in tho Vosges, was unsuc
cessful." PA KIP, Feb. 10 (via London). Tho
(artillery duel between tho Fiench and
i Germans Is continuing In tho Artols
! district, according to announcement
mado by the French War Otlico this
! ufternoon.
Thn text or tao communication roi
lows: "Ir tho Artols distrust I ho artillery
duel has continued between lllll No.
ll'.i and tho road fioin Neuvlllo to
Tin lus.
"An ensagi'infiit w lb hand grt-n-
ados resulted In our chasing thn one
my frmn certain coin. nun mug
trendies which tic y mil occupied "
' SAILINGT0pAY.
Etpsranza, Havana 2 P. M,
' Colon, Colon ,,,,uii,iiiiu, 3 Pt M,
WILLIAMS ADMITS HE GOT
B. R. T.
GAVE TEN YEARS OF LIFE
1
Not One Dollar of Graft in Subway
Deal, He Says, and Charges City
With Increasing Cost
in Delays.
SENT CHECK AS THOMPSON ,
INVESTIGATION WAS READY
The Brooklyn lupld Transit Cora-
pany, as well as the Intorborougli
Rapid Transit Company, woa appre
ciative of the services of its presi
dent In bringing nhout a contract re
lation between the city and tho sub
way corporations by Which tho olty
agreed to pay half tho nrpenscs of
construction and all deficits.
Tho gratltudo of tho B. It, T. took
tho form of tho presentation to Col.
Timothy S. Williams, President of the
corporation, of $100,000 in cash. Col.
Williams, yesterday, took tho view
that this presentation was nono of the
public's business. He changed his
mind to-day and takes the public Into
hit conlldonco to tho extent of the
following statement
"The compensation which the
llruulyn Itapul Transit Company and
Its constituent companion make to its
utllrers Is of ikj public concern i xcejit
.o fur as sui-li compuiinution relates
to our ron'.iaots with the clly for
,i.ijcI transit line. Ai to that rela
I tion, the cilj'H lunitrn is that hui li
expcjidltmca .t.'iould bo fjir, liuncst
and reasonable, juat ai It it the com.
panys concern that the city's expend
itures upon Which wo aro expected to
earn interest should ba measured by
Oio laino test. Under our contracts
with tho city, however, the Publlo
Service Commission has full power
of supervision ovor our expenditures,
whllo wo liavo only tho privilege of
criticism over tho city's expenditures.
GET8 $25,000 SALARY FROM ONE
CONCERN.
"The Now York Municipal Railway
Corporation m tho company of our
system which has contracted with the
city. An President of that company,
charged with all the executive respon
sibility of carrying out those con
tracts, r havo received a salnry of
$2:,,uuo a year since April I, 1913. The
other salaries paid by thnt company
havo been correspondingly moderate.
Tho total expense Is very much loss
i proportionately than thn city's admlii
' Istrntlon and superintendence oxponso.
"When tliu contracts wero under
negotiation with the city It was ori
ginally expected that they would bo
taken by one of our existing corpora
tions. Tim city and our bankers re
quired tin (urination or a new coi
poration, and tho New York Muni-
(Continued oa Second P.)
The political status of Lemuel Ely Qulig, accelerator, who U on the
piyroll of the Interborough for 120,000 a year, was doflnltoy fixed In No
vember, 1014, when T. A. Gillespie of Now York, holder ot tho contract
for third-tracking the L roads on a basis ot profit of IS por cent of the
cost, wrote to his brother, D. L. QIllcspIo of Pittsburgh, that Mr. Qulgg
was "tho nearest man to QoT.-eloct Whitman."
Less than two months later, whon tho Thompson committee was get
ting roady to como to New York and Investigate subway and L road third-
tracking contracts, Mr. Glllosple handed Mr. Qulgg a check for $2,500.
It appears from correspondence part of which la Bhown In fac simile
herewith, that shortly after tho election ot 1914 O. L. Olllcsplo ot Pitts
burgh, !'., conceived tho Idea ot Inviting Oov.-olcct Whitman to make a
speech to the Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce In January. Mr. D. L.
Gillespie, beforo extending a formal Invitation, wrote to T. A. Gillespie,
his kinsman, In New York for advice.
And what did Mr. T. A. QUlosple, who Is Now York-wise, do? He sat
down and wroto, on Nov, 18, the following lottor to Lemuel lily Qulgg:
Nov. 18, 1914.
Mr. Lemuel K. Qulgg, No. 32 Nassau Street, Now York City.
Dear Mr. Qulgg: I Incloso you a letter and as you keep in closo
touch with the gentleman named (Gov. Whitman) and I know he ia
such a busy man, what do you advlso mo to do In the rnr.tter? I may
aay the Chamber of Commerco ot tho City of Pittsburgh is a very
large body, composed of gome of the ablest and wealthiest men In
Western Pennsylvania.
Will you telephone me when you get this, advising me tho best
way to go about thta as I really think It will be worth whilo for Mr,
Whitman to consider it.
Very truly yours, (Signed) T. A. CHLLH3PIB.
THE "NEW YORK-WISE" GILLESPIE SEES QUIQQ.
Mr. Quigg did not dolay In handing out tho wished for advlco. Within
twenty-four hours Mr. T. A. aillcsplo In Now York was able to write the
following lottor to Mr. D. L. Olllesplo In Pittsburgh:
Nov. tj, 1J14.
rpnwovAr, a ooHnrBimM.)
Mr. 1. L. Olllesple,
Honry W. Oliver Building.
Pittsburgh, P.
Dear Lin: Confidentially, I have Just talked to Lemuel Qulgg. who
in the nearest man to Oov.-elect Whitman, and ho advises against
Whitman accepting your invitation. He is one of his closest advisers,
ujid naya it In almost impossible to got near Whitman for the ofllce
seokera running after 1dm, but I got in touoh with Qulgg yesterday
and again to-day and 1 do not think you need depend upon htm.
Qulgg rays It is only about a week or ton dayn after tho opening of
the Legislature, no he will bo very busy and it would look pretty bad
to run around tho country making speeches beforo ho had gotten set
tled in Albany. Ho I think you will havo to cut this out. If it ehould
develop a little later that he can do It, ot course I will keep it In mind.
Will wire you to-day with reference to this.
Yours, (Hlgned) T. A. OILLEBPIB.
Krldenty tho Pittsburgh Gillespie, not being New Vork-wlso and there
fore unawaro ot tho peculiar usefulness of Mr. Qulgg In certain directions,
was not sntlsllcd with n declination by Lotnuol B. Qulgg of an Invitation
lntonded for the Governor-elect of tho State of Now York. He wroto again
to Mr. T. A- Olllesplo, and, on Nov 25. Mr. T A. Olllesplo wroto In reply:
N'ov. 28, 1914.
irrauvwAfc.i
Mr. I). I Gllleople,
Honry W, Oliver Building,
Pittsburgh, 1M.
Pear Lin: I h&vo Just talked with Mr. Qulgg as ho only got out
of court about 4 o'clock to-day. Ho says ho has discussed tho matter
with Oov.-elect Whitman ond that ho will not accept any Invitation
of the nature you speak of for perhaps six months. Ho has asked me
to go and see tho Oovernor-elect himself on Monday when ho returns
to the city and It might show up, and If so, I will, of course, dlscuns it
and recommended It, but I am suro tho only thing ho will do will bo to
drop It, for ho will not go against the ndvico of his friends.
Thin Is personal and confidential, and you will please not ubc Mr,
Qulgg'a name. I am sorry I could not do morn for you.
Yours, (Signed) T. A. OILLKHPIE.
THE OILLESPIE CHECK AND QUIOQ RUBBER STAAIP.
This appear to havo wound up the negotiations, a ml tho Pittsburgh
Olllesplo did not use Mr. Qulgg's name. Hut tho Now York Gllllsplo was
not long in getting ito "touch" with Lemuel Kly Qulgg nguln.
Uarly in January a year ago It becatno apparent In Albany that a
legl.slailvo eominlttco was coming down to Now York to probo subway,
contracts and also the contract for third tracking tho "L" lines, which
had been given to Mr. Gillespie on a basis ot profit ot 15 per cent ot the
I
".JU ....
