-'? fKKKLY RKPVRt.tCAX-Ml.
tA it. r run Lie LnoaKR-ntt
MAYSVILLE, KENTtJOKY, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1010.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
irs .
Tho trouble with some men wo know
Is not that they tholr folly show
In what they say or ilo;
But that thoy ask tho world to say
That these fool tricks thoy turn each
day
Aro wise nnd helpful, too.
Richmond Times-Dispatch.
WITH ItOI.AM) ix coihaii:
JOII.VJ AT THE I'ASTIMK
TODAY.
Huth Holand nnd William Klliott
ore featured In "Comrade John," n
Hpcclnl Gold Hooster play, to bo pre
sented at tho I'astlinc today. Those
who eujoy flrst-claps picture produc
tions certainly have a treat In store
for them at tho Pastlmo today. With
Ihith Roland and William Elliott as
Humlng tho lending roles, supported
hy a splendid cast of Patho's players,
this will bo a picture long remember
ed by picture fans of this city.
JiOTICE TO PASTORS AND CHURCH
CLERKS.
All announcements for Sunday serv
ices must be in this office by 12 o'clock
tomorrow to Insure Insertion.
Tho price of coal Is said to have
reached tho prlco of $30 n ton nt
Rome, and steps are being taken to
bring It from Japan, where the cost Is
just one-tonth as great.
The Mason County Woman Suffrage
League will meet Friday, February 11,
at 2 p. in., at the Public Library.
- Please bo prompt.
' . ALICE, LLOYD, President.
v The owner of some limestone cavea
in Virginia has piped tho 'air from
them Into his house to provide even
temperature the year around.
2 !-!! j J J J
J. NOTICE TO OUU ADVEI.TIS-
IXG PATRONS
All changes for advertise- 4
J ments MUST bo In this office J
J by 9 o'clock the day beforo
their Insertion, and for Mon- f-
day's paper must be In by 9
! o'clock on Saturday.
. ! .J..J..J..J ..J.. J
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and
our fourth year in business, which has proven
wnicn we are very inaiwiui.
We are now looking forward to a greatly
ku J IL- 1.1. .4 -.J : ....J i
ii.ic iii.i.ucu uic i.ic.i uu nam iiiipiutEU equipment iui iidiiumig yuui oiusis. which soar
nni... ..j. m:ii ....l .-J .11 .1 il 0
aiuce iu gidue 111111 nuin dim uiuuii iu
We are leaders In our line.
TUE UAOnU IIIMDCD PMADAMV CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
MIL mHOUI. LUITIULI1 UUIIIIH11I STREET. PHONE 519.
a. a. Mclaughlin.
! HOBBIES
A prominent pliysieinn tells us that "hobbies" aro healthy
H things for us to have, and wo feel that wo must bo blessed with
jj unusually good health, as we have ALWAYS had a hobby
and it's
HARNESS!
Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
our boast was that we made tho best harness thnt could bo
made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nino
!nnd fifty cents a pound, we still maintain thnt wc havo tho
best harness that can bo made. AlUyou havo to do to prove
H that wo are telling you facts is lo go to the next "sale," and
hear Col. Nensley Hawkins say in that musical drawl for which
5 lie is so famous, "This is a sot, gentlemen, of Miko Brown's
Harness. AVhnt do you bid?" Then's when you can sco tho
fanner "set up and tako notice." for he knows there will be
some bidding on that harness.
This is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, and this is the tinio of tho year, also,
when wo arc ready to sell him. All winter long our men havo
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now wo are
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grandfather
used to buy it, but, considering tho prico of leather, it's a
wonder how low in prico and high in quality tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAIM"
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
THY ONE PACKAHE. IT SOLVES THE IlKEAKPAST. PHQIILKM.
Jl'ST TAWED ANOTHER BAKU EL Of THE FINEST NEW ORLEANS
MOLASSES EVER IIRQUOHT TO TOWN.
.QKIWED A ACONKAQ ' PkM 43.
HERE'S THE LATEST
Wrist Watches That Hold Alcohol To
Ho Used In "Stimulating" Near
llror Worn Hy Men In
Colorado.
I'coplo who never carried watches
Lcfoio, says the Denver Post, are
toting them around In Colorado. No
longer are rude remarks uttered re
garding the youth whoso lily-whtto
nrm Is adorned with a wrist watch.
Ilo has plenty of Imitators. Gentle
men havo been scon going downtown
In Denver with clocks under their
arms, presumably taking them to bo
repaired. Several others this Is only
vaguo rumor have been talking ot
cnrrylng nloug grandfather's hall
clocks which ure sndly out of order,
One thing Is certain. Denver Is
keeping In close touch with Father
Time.
As In states that aro "wet," Colo
rado citizens still ask:
"Have you the time?"
You know they havo!
Listen to tho Denver Post:
Prohibition Is the father of Inge
nulty.
And the latest of its Inventions Is
the "near beer watch."
On sale In several Denver jewelry
shops and drug stores is a contrivance
closely resembling n man's watch. Tho
case Is shaped exactly liko that of a
watch, and there is a lifelike stem.
Hut the stem unscrews, permitting the
case to be filled with alcohol. One
sldo of the c.iso can be pressed in, and
when this Is dono a stream of alcohol
shoots out through a small hole In the
stem.
To the gentleman who desires his
dally beer In spite of prohibition, this
"near boor watch" Is a revelation and
a thing of joy. Ho fills tho receptacle
with alcohol before ho leaves homo in
tho morning and whenever ho wants
a glass of real beer during tho day
he simply purchases a glass of near
beer, adds a pinch of salt, and squirts
Into the mixture a little alcohol from
his "watch." The result Is said to be
the equivalent of real beer.
These watches aro made in hard
rubber, silver and gold-plated steel.
They are finding considerably sale.
PRAYER MEETING.
Regular weekly prayer meeting
service this evening at 7 o'clock nt tho
Third Street M. E. church will bo led
by the pastor, Rev. J. M. Literal. A
Christian welcome awaits oyu.
customers for their liberal uatronaee for this.
to be considerable beyond our anticipation, (or
increased business the coming year and we
L I lt:- J :. LT-f-
an, at 111s ue.i possiois puces.
L. N. II EUAN.
If,
PROHIBITION BILL
Advanced In the .House At Frankfort
lly n Vote ol SI To J3, Tim
Hrlnglng Liquor Question
Vp In Legislature
Again.
Tho. wots la tho Houso Buffered an
other defeat Tuesday nt tho hands ot
the drys when llouso 11111 No. 35, In
troduced by Representative E. II.
Hamilton ot Franklin county, waa
taken from the hands ot tho House
Commlttco on Constitutional Amend
ments, whero It had been peacefully
slumbering slnco January 12 and put
It into the calendar.
The vote was 51 to 43 and came aft
cr a short debate In which the dry
were represented by ItoprcscntatlV'
W. M. Webb of Johnson county, Kep
resentatlve Krank C. Qreeno of Car
roll county, nnd others, after Hcpro
sentntlvo David J. Howard of Wood'
ford county, who mado tho motion, had
appealed to tho members to dlspos
ot tho bill, so thnt tho "restraint on
tho business of this House, which has
been evident tho past week," may b
removed.
The proposition camo too early In
tho day for tho wets to nttcmpt n
filibuster, such as was led successfully
Monday by Itcprcsentatlvo William
Duffy ot Louisville, and while some of
the dry members voted against the
motion out of respect for tho commit
tec, refusing to take the bill up until
the committee had "had a chance to
report It."
The fifty-one votes cast, therefore,
do not represent the full strength ot
the drys In the House and they may
muster the other nlno votes ncccs
snry to pass the bill nnd thus put It
up again to the Senate, which has
rejected it by a vote of 20 to 14, a
proposition for statewide prohibition
LITERARYPPOGRAM
Tn Ho (Hi en Hy the Athenaeum So
rlety In the Hleh School
Auditorium Friday
Tim Athenaeum Literary Society of
tho Maysvlllo High School will pre
sent tno nrst lltcrnry program since
the Christmas holidays Friday after
noon rit 2 o'clock Thfl program f '
Debate Resolved, That the Inter
class Athletics Should Be Given More
Attention Than Intcr-scholastlc. Af'
Urinative, Charles Downing, Donald
McN'amara; negative, Howell Richard'
son, Stephen Owens.
"The Table of tho Two ladles"
Anita Glen.
"Tho Table of the Two Business
Mon" Edward Walton.
"The Table of tho Two Antomohll-
ists" Foster Barbour.
"The Table of tho Two Housewives"
Herma Hunslckcr.
Piano Solo J. R. Currcy.
"How to Know the Wild Animals'
Anna Bland.
."Wild Animals I Have Met" Doro
thy Taylor.
"Tho Table ot tho Two Pedestrians
Clifford Thomas.
"Tho Tablo of tho Two Young Men1
J. R. Currey.
"Tho Tablo of tho Two Suitors"
Cecil Dickson.
Vocalolo Gordon Smoot.
Tho Athenaeum Chronicle Louise
Hunslckcr.
Miss Nell Sutherland, director of
tho program, has been untiring In her
efforts to mako them of a high or
der ,and this program merits the at
tendance and commendation ot all in
terested In tho public schools.
Hon. George F. Aldrlch will deliver
a message that will bring tho boys and
girls ot today into closer touch with
tho vast opportunities of llfo lying
along the pathway to that grander
civilization toward which tho world Is
moving. Hear Jjlm at K, of P. Hall
Saturday night nt 8 o'clock.
Wyandottec Trlbo I. O. R. M.. cav
tho Chief's degreo to two warrlora at
tho last council of the tribe, nnd also
received another application. Things
aro livening up among tho Indians
There will bo degree work every meet
ing night for several weeks. Some ot
tho scouts nro talking of a big hay-
makero' meeting.
Hon. George F. Aldrlch's subjects
aro always well and naturally hand
led and logically devoloped. Ills
powers of conviction and persuasion
aro well blended. Hear him at K. ot
P. Hall Saturday night at 8 o'clock.
Mr. James Long, a prominent farm
er of Orangeburg, died from u stroke
of apoplexy Wednesday at tho ago of
74. ilo la Burvjved. by his wife, five
eons and three daughters.
Mrs. L, M. Cavendish and Mrs. Car-
rlo Kussoll uttended tho banquet giv
en Wednesday night at Cincinnati by
tho National Association of Independ
ent 5 and 10 Cent Stores.
Mr. It. F. Pollltt of Minerva, was on
the tobacco breaks hero Wednesday.
Mr. Paul Heflln of Flemlngeburs,
LINCOLN ANNIVKIISAItY SEHVICE.
Tho Kpworlh Lenguo of tho Third
Street f. M. church will celebrate
Lincoln's annlvcrsnry next Sunday nt
6:15 p. m. by giving tho scml-ccntcn-nlnl
program of tho Frcodman'a Aid
Soolety entitled "Tho Upward Way vs.
tho Downward Way," prepared by
Rev. Krnest C. Wnrclng, D. D as
sociate editor of tho Wcsborn Chris
tina Advocnto. This Is a program of
Inspiring songs and rcsponslvo read'
IngB with several short addresses set
ting forth tho great work done by tho
Frcodman'a Aid Society In tho solving
of tho rnco problem and tho education
of tho negro. This will be ono of the
best services of tho year In this
League. Xo better wayjean be found
to honor the Qrcnt Emancipator than
Insuch a scrvlco as this will be. The
League will mako It as nttractlvo nnd
Interesting as possible aud they Invite
you to attend.
noon crowd's.
The rovlval nt the First M. K,
church, South, Is being well nttended.
Rev. Corder, tho song leader, Is de
lighting every ono who has heard him.
Rev. Campbell preached Wednesday
evening upon tho subject, "The Im
possibility ot Serving Two Masters.'
Tho Indications nro thntin great meet
ing will bo had. I
.MARRIAGE Lit,
l:nhe.
,A marriage llccnso Avas granted
Wednesday to Mr. Otis Carpenter, 21,
a farmer, and Miss Lorcna S. Lurty,
21. Judge W. It. Rice olllclnted.
POLICE COURT.
Ono lone prisoner faced the Judge
and ho was from Robertson county.
II. .1. French, drunk, first offense, flhc
$G.r.0. Paid.
JfA IL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices-aro right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
COUNTY COURT.
H. Y f'nln nnnllfiiwl no nntnn ,ih.
He with C. I. Wnnil nn nnrnlv nn hnml
Bond approved and oajh taken.
I Ion. G. F. Aldrlch Is n man with a
message and his pleasing, forceful
manner of delivering it. makes him a
prime fnvorlte with his audiences.
Hear him Saturday at K. of P. Hall at
8 o'clock.
THE ANNUAL SHOWING OF LINENS
Desplto the shortage In this year's linen importations, owing to the curtailment of manufacturing activities abroad becauso of large
quantities bouftht far in advanco wo can now announce this, our greatest showing of Linens, with the same standards ot quality as hereto
fore and the same low "before-the-war prices."
YVo call especial attention to our unusually largo assortment of Table Damask at COc to ?3. Big stock nt ln-betwccn prices. Irish,
Scotch and French linens of unusual beauty. Other Interesting features aro:
Damask Towels 2."io to $1.2.',.
Hnck Towels 10c tn il-rl.
Turkish Towels 10c to 73c.
fiucst Towels 19? to 0r.
Crash Toweling c to 2uc yard.
Huck Toweling 25c to 60c yard.
Towels aro only ono of the many interesting, items here. Ask to sec our Linen Sheeting -li )ards nlde, carefully shrunk, 7r, 9Sc, $1.19,
$1.25 aud $1.50.
Illeaclied and Silver bleached Table Linen 72 Inches wide. Wonderful pattern inrlcty, unsurpassed quality, 91, $1.25 yard. Xapklns to
mulch $2, $2J&
Exqiilslto heavy Tublo Damask, satin gloss, 72 Inch width, $2.93 yard. .Watch Xapklns SC.50.
Coats For Little Women 6 to 14 Years Old
Largest and finest collection In Maysvlllc for girls of 6 and 14 years, mother tells us. They Uko tho simple styles, the warm linings
nnd lntcrllnlngs and tho materials which aro both sorvlceablo and smart. And they llko the prices which nro $2, $3, $1 nnd $5 for coats
actually worth $4, $6, $8 and $10.
1S52
WAM'KD. j
Sccond-hanff desk and cabinet. Se5
Ledger Publishing Company.
We Will Accept Just 10 More Delineator
at 75c per year, just half prico, and then our Delineator Club
price goes back to $1.50 year.
You must call at our store each month for same.
The March number has arrived.
Shoe Repairing For Men, Ladies and
Send your old shoes to us by parcel post and wo will return
day repaired.
We use the best
pair.
EPWORTH LEAGUE SOCIAL NEXT
.MONDAY NIOIIT.
Tho Kpworth lAsaguo of the Third
Street M. E. church will entertain with
a Valentino social next Monday night
at tho church. It will ho a hummer.
Not a dull moment tho whole evening.
Ono of tho features of the Boclal will
bo tho Valentine edlton of tho League,!
Loquacious Literary Ledger, which Is
being prepared this month by several""
o? the girls. It Is understood that they
will have something to sny about
Leap Year. It Is the dcslro for special
rtaeons that tho membership ot the
church "attend this social. Something
of Interest for nil.
The classes of Mrs. T. J. Currey
and .Mrs. B. h. Williams had a party
Wednesday night nt tho homo of Miss
Martha Stone Hnuckc on Wood street.
There Is quite n rivalry between tho
two classes In regard lo their Sunday
school attendance.
Our prlco this week for buttcrfat,
Si cents Maysvlllc. Bring It In any
day, any tlmo of tho day, and receive
your check promptly.
MAYSV1LLK MODKI. CRNAMKltY.
Hon. Georgo F. Aldrlch will deliver
his address, "Keep tho Cobwebs
Hrushcd Down," nt tho K. of P. Hall
Saturday night nt 8 o'clock.
, THE HDME DF gTJJLLITY CLDTHEB
Judging from the way men are coming in for the suits and overcoats now
on sale, Our People know a good thing when they see it.
Things are happening thick and fast in the world of clothes; woolens are
soaring; trimmings are selling at record-breaking advance?; everything is going
up.
If you do not care to pay these advances in next winter's prices, there is
only one way out and that is to
The present sale began with 1,200 suits and overcoats surplus stocks of
four celebrated makes---Society Brand, B. R. Fashion, Michrels, Stern & Co.,
and Stein-Bluch Clothes. All spic-and-span garments, too not a lot of "stick-
ere.
Every man can be
TD. lEiEJCEiHSTG-EIR. &. CO,
Miss Jessio Owens of Germantown,
U the guest of her aunt, Mrs. Julia )
Pearson, ot East Fourth street.
materials, and our workmanship is first class.
a V 0 G E lTTtTrT
" , ORDER ONE TODAY g
Home-Grown Potatoes 35c Per Peck
Our Own Make Sauer Kraut 25c Gallon I
g DINGER BROS., 107 s,rccl-1
Tho friends of Mr. Wnlker Harney
will bo glad to learn ho has about
recovered from his Illness.
-KEEP
NOSE AND THROAT
Clean and Free From Gerim. Hvory Particle of Dust Is an
Airship For Microhcs. Get a Good Jg
ATOMIZER AND GERMICIDE
Splendid For Catarrh. Let Us Show You Our New Lino. JJ
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY 8
M
M
Mr W. W Wels was a business vis
itor to Cincinnati Wednesday.
fitted.
Miss ilertha Lnughlln of Carlisle.
Is the guest of her uncle, Mr. Walker
Harney of Kant Second street.
Mr. August Hnuckc of Wood street,
made his dnughters n present of a
handsomo Smith & Barnes piano.
THE-
Mr Georgo H. Frank has returned
from a brief visit to Cincinnati.
Trimmed Hats COc to $2 on sale
Friday and Saturday.
MISS UESSIB WELLS.
Subscriptions:
will be filled and the 9
3
Children i
them to you tho sarao
Try us on an old
U lq Mn'yivllle on business.
viy
