The citizen
Devoted to tine Interests of tlie !Lgovintan People
&2R.EA PUBLISHING CO.
(mCOKPOKATBB)
WM. O. ntOST. Mm hi CUti
C. H. WERTEMaUIOUI. MM UtOT
Knowledge It pewer ea4 th
war to keep us with modern
knowledge it U reed g twos!
newspaper.
r. O. lOWMAN. Ai
Mount m On 1 , r., Mrf
Mam IHsrtl'BjSs'ilv' .
Vol. XVII.
Five Cent a Copy.
P.F.REA. MADISON COUNTY. KENTI'CKY, FF.rmiTArtY 10. I0IA.
One Dollar a Year.
No. 3.1.
Compromise
There is an old story of a woman who was pursued
by wolves and by throwing one child to (he ravenous
beasts saved all the others.
In politics a good man sometimes has to give up
something very dear for the sake of something dearer.
That may be a commendable compromise.
But to give up something good for something less
good is a bad compromise.
Brittle Resolutions
Here we are in February ! Our New Year resolutions
are being tested. Let us hope they were tough and not
brittle resolutions. Let us not say "I will never do this"
and then quit trying if we fail a single time. But let us
say " I will try, and try, and if necessary, I will die trying.''
Remember When You Were Young
Every father and mother should tell stories to the
children of the times when they were young.
Children love stories, and expecially true stories.
And it makes them acquainted with those older than
themselves to hear of what these older people have been
through. And it helps them get ready for their own
coming years.
And besides this it helps the old folks keep young
in heart, and makes them realize how things seem to the
boy and girl who are just beginning life. The stories
by the fireside are a blessed thing.
IN OUR OWN STATE
The Kanffman Anti-trust Dill
passed the Kentucky House by 79
U, S, NEWS
Hear Admiral I'sher, Commandant
of the New York Navy Yard, asked
lo 5. It fulfills a Platform pledge. I for special police tuards to protect
The Senate repassed the Anti-pass the I'nited States cruiser which ar-
Bill with the amendments made In rived from Haiti from possible bomb
tho House. IdroupinK.
t
The Court of Appeals on Friday, Nicholas Longworth has practi
the th, suslained the right of Ken- rally been agreed upon for chair-
lucky lo tax and restrict foreign man of the Republican National Con-
insurance companies as the Slate grcssional Committee, which is un
from winch those companies come deration to end the fartional fight
tat and restrict Kentucky compan- brewing for several weeks.
les.
Approval has not been given by
Students of Transylvania College President Wilson and Democrats of
at Lexington on the 8th voted their the Senate are by no means unani
preference 10 lo I for the prepared- mously in favor of amendments to
ness policy of president Wilson as the Colombian treaty, reported last
compared with the Roosevelt Idea of week by the Foreign Relations Com
preparedness and the Bryan policy mittee, it is announced.
rif nfftftindanif I
lilt- (iruimtioii oi hii in'ua r.A
position has been set for Saturday.
March 18. The informal opening
came on ew ears, but Ihe two
months and a half were necessary
for the instsallation of foreign ex-
bihits, construction of new build
ings and reorganization or the
Isthmus, which houses Exposition
amusements.
More than 1.000 delegates arriv-d
in Louisville Sunday for the Na
tional Canners' Convention. Oover
nor Stanley delivered the State's
welcome.
Belgium and the United States
rating as unjust violation of the
One of the best things we have
read in defense of the action taken
by our President relative to the
"loet opiMtrtunity" in Ihe rase of
the invasion of Belgium is found
in a reovnt editorial of the Louis-
ville Evening Post which is as fol
lows: "The Financial Chronicle says
truthfully that 'nothing has been
more persistently misrepresented
than the attitude of the United
States regarding Germany's viola
tion of Belgium's rights,1 and it
should have added that the one in
dividual most persistent in that
misrepresentation ha been Mr.
Theodore Roosevelt.
"The facts in regard t this whole
matter are briefly summarized in
the Chronicle. Germany, France
and Great Britain, by solemn treaty
between themselves, involving no
others, guaranteed the neutrality
of Belgium. In that treaty the Uni
ted1 Statca had no part. After Ger
many invaded Belgium Great Brit
ain declared war upon her. Before
Germany invaded Belgium Great
Britain 'protested against that in
vasion. She followed up the pro
test by a declaration of war.
"The United States never entered
into, nor ever considered a treaty
relating to Belgium. The United
Stales did eign The Hague 'decla
ration declaring it to be the opia
Ion of the signnatory powers that
the invasion of neutral territory
. was to lie condemned, but the Uni
ted states .appended lo that signa
ture Its declaration that 'nothing
contained in this convention shall
be so construed as to require the
United Stales Ut depart from its
traditional policy of not intruding
upon. Interfering with or entang
ling itself in Ihe political question
r policy of any foreign tate.
' In other words, the United States
Agreed to sign a convention depre-
A bill to create State and county
excise commissions, drafted al the
nslance of Governor Stanley to sub-
i ii-i 1 1 . i
ol.lUM, n.,-1.,,11 uuu were caneo. up A nu. ffnvf.rnmenl hnil.lin is he.
r. . .. . : i : i . i. i -- r -
"I"'""' m uoii me lowei in- ...natri.nta.l ( ll.o Donoma.Pol
U !.. T- ........ . .. . .
......... .... ny.H..r.y uvmsiun jfornja International Exposition to
luuviuri. i..r rmr hum regulations -,1BPinm ,.r ll, flhri
intended to solve the problems of jfl...,ni Th ci...i..-ir
violations! ... , .'.. u.
i.y l.nr tti.u in Ub Mlt? l.l'H.J OI Ulr
Denying George B. Alexander. Im
rmnis oi any neuii Bi, liui amiinciiy . prisoned I'ariS tianker, a
affirmed that it was simply a Governor Stanley said he could find
matter of opinion and that It ao-no extenuating circumstances in the
knowledged no responsibility to en-'case of the man who practiced "ev-
tangle itself in European politics ry art of deceit to secure the con-
over the matter, flilence or his fellow-men and en-
"This really settles the question,, tired them into an unknown snare."
t.,.1 II. a folio... Ir. l Ik..
nut iiir i"ii'n i ill riinii. lib in nirr i . . ,
I In an official bulletin issued bv
"The German army was in Bel- .nd.piarters. United Stales Marine
gium lierore The world knew posl- Corps. Washington, appears th
uveiy inai u even iniennea to in- nnme of John Casteel, of Oakley, this
vane mai country; even Mr riwara county, as having qualified as a
Gray's preliminary protest came marksman in that most interesting
really after the thing was done. t,ral.i, f lf, Government service.
inereiore, a proiesi Dy me govern- .t,,i, ui,n jH t Ri.iu.rt. r.
ment al Washingtm. if it had any t..el. of Oakley, enlisted in the United
meaning, must have meant that the states Marine Corns at its nort-
i nuen Mates was ordering Germany land. Oregon, recruiting station on
.. T..1..l... i i V. : - i . n ...
..in, v. m iKiiiiii. mm ii mis .i.iii ii- May 17. r.MS. and is now serving
ration was to tie anything more with the American Legation Guard
than a means of making the United at p,.kin. China, where he is hav-
States ridiculous, the ultimate pur- jng many interesting and exciting
pose musi nave tieen lo apply force experiences.
in case me protest was disregarded Considering the fact that Casteel
by Germany as. of course, it would js scarcely more than a recruit, his
nave pcen. I performance in minnerv is rnnsider-
"The whole case js here settled. e( by Marine Corpse officials as little
If it was proper fr the "United short of marvelous, and they expect
States to declare war upon Ger-.him to break many marksmanship
many because of Germany's inva-, records before his enlistment ex-
sion of Belgium, the President pires. Mountain Echo.
would have acted properly fn pro-
testing Germany's occupation ofi
Isthmus. This great display will
hnvp tlm a.lvnntnirn tt on onfirA
pardon buiI(1in)fi
KITCHENER TO
LEAVE CABINET
Preyed He Will Go to the
Far East.
ADELE RITCHIE
Musical Comedy Star, Recently
Freed, to Wtd Lou-Tlltgn.
it-.-
I 'M
mm
l at
WORLD NEWS
The seiiure of the English liner
"Appam" by a small German cruis
er is regarded everywhere as a
brilliant act of its kind. The En
glish crew was overpowered, when
the boat was off the western coast
of Africa, a German crew took com
mand, crossed the Atlantic and
eluding the British cruisers, took
the Appam into port at Hampton
Roads.
-
Whether the boat shall be regard
ed as a prize or not, whether she
shall be allowed to remain in port
in a neutral country is a question
for the United Stales to determine.
The case is an unusual one.
--
Rumania is reported to be ready
al short notice to enter the war on
the side of Russia and her allies.
This means an additional force of
about half a million men and may
delay the move on the allies at Sa
lonika that Germany and Austria
are starting to make.
Photo by Amorlcan Proaa AhocUUob
New York, Feb. 8. Miss Geraldlne
Farrar, grand opera star and Lou
Tellegen, the actor, drove to the munl
olpal building and hurried to Clerk
Bcully's office for a marriage license.
Their friends say they will be mar
ried at Miss Farrar's home.
LOOK FOR END OF
LUSITANIA CASE
i
Reports come persistently from
the Orient that Japan is seeking to
renew her demands on China for a
controlling hand in the affairs of
that state which would virtually
make her the ruler. Tho the re
ports are not confirmed there is
reason to believe that Japan is
alert lo her opportunity and will
strive to realize her ambition to be
the leader in the Asiatic affairs if
possible.
The relations of the United States
with Germany are again a subject
of comment. The final refusal of
Germany to admit the illegality of
the sinking of the Lusitania or to
disavow the act has Wrought up
Resentment Against German, qrstl0? nnT; es!
1 nnnf Wilann haa inf iivnnri irk U'noh.
Embassy Reports.
SUCCEECEO BY R0BERTS01
Unfavorable Comment
Belgium. ne could nft have pro-
The Action of State Senator ChasJ
laliaT That Strong General Hue' Is
Needed. to Protect Suez Canal From
German-Turco Menace Lead to
Kitchener's Selection.
London, Feb. 8. The comparattre
tranquil atmosphere that baa marked
the domestic political situation for
eome weeks, haa given way ovornight
to a feeling of reetlveness, until poli
tical London Is a flutter with excite
ment and speculation, centered upon
Lord Kitchener. The Earl of Khar-
teum'i future Incumbency In the of
fice of secretary far war seems again
in doubt. This time, unlike previous
occasions, doubts are based on con
crete facts, not guesses or political
attacks.
A revolutionary change lust made
U. S. POSITION THE SAME
ington to consider the matter.
The erection of a large statue to
Miss Cavell, the English nurse, who
was executed by the Germans, in
j Belgium, is a quick tribute to her
. . , . memory by England's ally. The
Stat. Department Officially Announce. 8tatnp wi tand jn f t, no,efl
Tk.l Tkl. - A I . , . I
... . .... gauntry n nn v,ningo squares Of Paris.
its Stand on Issue More Accept
able Offer la Possible.
CONTEWTS
PAGE 1. Editorials; Compromise,
, Brittle Resolutions. Rememher
I When You Were Young. Bel
17 gium and the Vnited States.
Our Own State News. United
tested Germany's invasion of Belgi- T Ar,,"tl in vntin ataint'1 -
in.. l...c.i Mini lo-.V nlM. hnfnr. ""ssioii oi a MUiewme pronmilion
he heard alw.ut it.) To have proles- ' the people has called , the functlon, of the ieCretary of
tetl Germanv's ocruimtion of Beurt-' " """""rann' rommeni, war Is the structure from which rose
urn would either have been an order Mr' Arn,,,t K'llHxwd to represent during the last twenty-four hours
te Germany to vacate or a piece of ' ccnumes, viz: nreainnt. numoer or strong possiDiutie. ail cui-
nwu-V l...nii.. Tl. inui.tliol l,l 'siey, one, .iinrgan anil Magni- minaiing in mo ezpeciauon oi ewaep-
1 J l n. . 1 1.. ..- . .f II. i a I ... k.n... 1. nM Dl.l.'. Ml...
ills vu..toi 111 UICI. II llftlll Ul lit
tary administration. This change con
sists of a new order whereby the
British chief of staff. General Sir Wll
tlam Robertson and not, as hereto
fore, the war secretary, "shall be re
sponsible for Issuing orders of the
government regarding military oper
ations.
This sensational order, by which
Lord Kitchener Is practically super
AA In h AHM.I
.... . ill . . , , . r - I ii v. i it luivuiuii luiiiuuu ui it i
i.y noi K.-i m narmony wiui tins Chester n.'mocrat on Senator J. Will office was at once taken up by the
press as a substantial sign that the
ment of this country is that Presi- tU of th P'arhers and
dent acted wiw-ly in not mixing in Uw 'y people he was. In the pri
the Belgian affair. Mr. Roosevelt .n.,Bry' n,,, ,0 ,,,,f"B' Sona,or F" K-
Washington. Feb. 8. The fact that
President Wilson has delayed his con
ference with Secretary Lansing over
the latest German offer In the Lusi
tania case is being urged by officials
of the state department against too
The burning of the Parliament
House in Ottawa, Canada, during
the week was a notable disaster.
The building was a beautiful one
and cost over four millions of dol
lars. The fire started In the read
ing room where there was a large
much being taken for granted one amount of paper, and spread rapid-
way or anotner as to the final outcome y. Though it occurred in the day
of the controversy. .time many had narrow escapes and
Already, it is apparent, there is be- several lives were lost. There is
tag manifested in White House clr- m mispipion lhal th(, flre was
cles, a resentment against reports .., , . , . , ... .
emanating from German source, re- Ith? of " p,ot m,t nothin ha9
gardlng the extent which the Berlin 7rt h"n rrVPd-
should, however, be fair with his
countrymen. If he wants a war
with Germany over Belgium he
should say eo.
Hogg, an able lawyer, and a man
of influence in the Senate. Senator
Arnett. of course has reasons for
his lightning change of attitude on
this question, but there are many
ilM'ojile among his constituents who
You will all be interested in the ,rp wanting to know what these
song Pixie Hignway" on page 8. reasons are. naranhrasin the Win.
great messing, wnicn is a reality, Clay. Jackson Times.
ana sing your Hearts' nesires to me
music which is advertised on page 4.
Hazard Light Plant Improved
The Kenturky River Power Com-
Th article on Pneumonia nn inu imiiv look over the Hazard Power
Ul.l ' I 11 I I I '
m.ni.-s .we.noiiii ami ar 5 ., on(, iat wi) gixf) y(M )i(nt on company and will have entire con-
I the dreaded disease. Read it for trol of Ihe lighting of Ihe city. It
FACE 1 Berea Colie Deartment- '0"r ,w" wlitlcntion
al Page.
to arrange for continuous dav and
Every student should rlii out the.niKht service. The service is to be
PAGE 3. Ferial: Lahonia. Liters-! college song, on page 2 and learn it. xImhI all over town in Ihe near
tore for Rural Schools Comic. You cannot be wholly loyal to your , '"lure. It is said that a little more
days of Earl Kitchener as war secre
tary are definitely numbered
One report wss Insistent and found
such general credence that the press
and public attach much .Ignlflcance
to It. That waa that Lord Derby, of
Is the purpose of the new company the recent recruiting campaign fame,
' Column. Woman's World
PAGE 4. Locals.
PAGE 8. Local News and Otber In
teresting Articles.
PAGE . Mountain Agriculture.
State Fanners Institute, Clieoee
Making. Cincinnati Markets.
Water Kills Alfalfa. Home Bfl
' partment. A Thousand Per
Cent Profit. Helpful Hints for
Housewives.
PAGE 7. International Sunday
School Lesson. Anti-Liquor
ColumnJ Gems in Verse.
PAGE I. East Kentucky News.
Song, The Dixie Highway.
institution till you will have learn
ed this song.
Cheese Making In the Mountains
on the farm page should be of inter
est to those having land and cattle
in the mountains.
Don't fail to make s good garden
after reading the article in the
Home .Department this issue. There
is profit in the garden according to
this srtirle.
i
Joyful.
"I should Ilka some rather Joyful
hosiery." aald the slangy young niaa.
"Yea, sir. How about a check r aald
the brisk haberdasher, tbinkln of
I what always brought toost Joy to hlxa
sclt Buffalo Express,
than one-half of the possible patrons
of Hazard are now taking the ser
vice. Power is to be furnished for
any kind of manufacturing or other
enterprises. Hazard is to be con
gratulated on this improvement
which the new company is able to
make.
Reorganization of Estill County Oil
Company
A half Interest in the Gaines and
Maroum company was purchased by
N. G. Neely. of St. Mary's. Ohio.
which will be operated In the fu
ture as the Gaines, Marcum At Neely
concern. The property consists of
5,000 acres of leases, s large part of
which is situated in the best pro
ducing territory, two drilling ms
( Continued oa rase rive)
la to become war secretary. In some
quarters Lloyd-George Is mentioned as
the successor of Lord Kitchener while
in military circles General 81r William
Robertson Is considered likely to be
named to the office.
The change. If msde, will be made
with grace, and to the nation Kitch
ener will In no way appear aa the
loser. The general prediction la that
Lord Kitchener will be sent to the
far east, where the Turco-German
menace to the Sues canal, and ulti
mately to India la admittedly develop
ing Into a reality.
There haa long been a tendency to
the belief that a strong general head
Is needed to oppose the military gen
ius of Field Marshal von Golts, the
German commander now directing the
three Inter department theaters of
war la Asia and destined to lead the
drive oa Sues. No other man for this
task could be found Is the British
empire, according to all military crit
ics here, thsn Lord Kitchener.
(Continued oa P rive)
memorandum does or does not con
form with the American demands.
Mr. Lansing, who had refused here
tofore to comment on these reports,
manifested a strong resentment
against a statement attributed several
days ago In the Berlin press dispatch
es to Under Secretary Zimmerman of
the Berlin foreign office that the Uni
ted Statea government at the last mo
ment should have presented demands
which Germany could not accept.
Commenting on this statement. Sec
retary Lansing dictated the following
"This government has not Increased
the demands made In the Lusitania
aa set forth In the notes of May 13,
June and July 21. I doubt if Dr.
Zimmerman ever made the statement
that new demands had been Injected
because he must know now that It ia
utterly false."
Following this the secretary again
stated that the note was unchanged
from what It was when the Berlin
proposals were received.
Chairman Stone, of the foreign rela
tion committee, which called at the
White House shortly after tbia atate
ment waa made, left with a distinct
Idea that a aettlement Is in sight. He
said that hie Impression waa that the
Lusitania rase was "practically set
tied" and that ho was not in the least
apprehensive over the outcome. The
aenator from Mlaaourt added, however
that there may be a further exchange
of notes between this government and
Berlin.
Persons in close touch with the Ger
man embassy continued to express the
utmost confidence In an 'early settle
ment on the basis of Germsny's com
munication.
Significant perhaps of tho reasons
for the delay on the part of the ad
ministration In passing Judgment on
the German memorandum la the fact
ascertained from certain administra
tion officials Is that the president
thinks tbst Count voa Bernstorff,
for the Berlin offioe, has la re
serve a still more acceptable offer,
should the United States reject the
last proposals.
That the president may have a su-
st-Iclon tha Count rpn Bernstorff l
EXPECT FALL
OFJJBAZZO
Capture By Austrfans Is Con
ceded Imminent.
DELAY ATTACK ON SALONICA
Terrific Artillery Engagements Mark
Operatlone on Weatarn Front Of
fensive Movement on Large Scale
Expected Shortly Lens Bombarded.
London. Feb. I. The fall of Du
razso, capital and seaport of Albania,
Is conceded here to be Imminent No
resistance Is expected to be offend
by the small army of Essad Pasha.
supported by fragments of the former
Serbian army. Now that the Bulcara
and Austrlans have Joined hands, re
peating the plan of stratecr followed
In the Invasion of Serbia, Durasso Is
as good as given up by the Italians
who, however, are determined to de
fend Avlona to the last.
Rome diapatches state that Aus
trian cavalry haa reached the Arsenl
liver, only four miles from Durasso.
and Is awaiting the arrival of the
bulk of the Austrian army whloh Is
rapidly advancing, having eroased the
river Ishal on Sunday. El Bassaa Is
In the Invaders hands.
There was nothing to substantiate
the reports that the drive on Saloalca
has actually begun. Supplementary
dlapatches bear out the theory that
these reports were caused by sklrm-
isaes around the neutral sons. Mili
tary observers believe that a general
offensive against the allies la Oreece
Will pot be yjjdjPrJaXea. Ufitil the pry
(Goouauea ea Peae rivet
(Continued oa Fir rive)
