r^ss?q the daily'telegram | -=
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIKE > ' ^ |
ESTABLISHED 1861 * CLARKSBURG, TV. VA? THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1916. PRICE TWO CENTS
WAGE
? MINERS A
ARE TO
So Far, However, the Confer-1
ence Has Not Agreed on ;
] Any of the Demands.
to adjounTnIxt week
Sub-Committees May Take the
Matter Up after the Anthracite
Conference.
< ? AIBOCL1ID P.KBB)
MOBILE, Ala., Feb. 10.?Operators
and miners of the central com- '
petitive coal Held in joint conference
here to arrange a new wage scale
for western Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiania
and Illinois, continued discussion
today on the mine run question.
Aside from the demands asking increases
in wages ranging from ten to
iweuiy per ixui, nm?i (uug tu mv (
class of work, the mine run demand 4
Is the most Important before the con- 4
ference. 4
President John P. White, of the *
miner's union is on record as declar- 4
Ing that the operators must concede 4
this demand. Western Pennsylvania 4
operators strongly oppose granting it. 4
They assert that both miners and op- 4
erators are better off by sticking to 4
the screen system. 4
Operators and minors both said to- 4
day they do not expect any Important 4
developments until alter each of the 4
eleven demands had been thorough- 4
fy considered. It Is then probable.^
sub-committees will be appointed to 4
endeavor to agree on a wage scale. ^
This may take some time and an ad-'j
journment next week uirtil after the ^
anthracite conference, which begins ^
February 21, is not unlikely. ^
Operators and miners express the ^
opinion that a wage agreement will,,
be negotiated, but no one ventures
a prediction as to what concessions
cither side will make.
IfsT 1
In Greatest Revival Ever Held
in First Methodist Church
Continues to Grow.
, e
Dpspite the fact that the weather >'
has been for the mo6t part decidedly 1 *
Inclement, the Interest continues in' J
the great revival being held in the '
First Methodist Episcopal church. J
Last night the seating capacity was [;
all taken up In the main building. r
The sermon was another of those '
masterly orations against the ele- 11
ments of evil and the inhabitants of
the realm of darkness. So Impres- 1
give were the words of Dr. Morrison "
that n number came forward at once '
on the first invitation.
The music was exceptionally good 1
and showed a steady degree of Improvement
in Hlatt's big chorus.
There was a splendid attendance 11
a I the noondav luncheon. The meet- 1
ing yesterday afternoon for women 1
was very Interesting and the number 1
present exceeded the expectations of v
the pastor. Dr. Kine, who has charge
of the plans and field fork in the big P
revival.
Services will be held this evening "
at the regular hour.
CASUALTY LISTS i
Of Prussians in the European !
War Shows Losses Running
into Millions. [
my ??SOCIATCO PRMtt
LONDON, Feb. 10-The Amster-1
ilant Courant states that the Prussian
casualty lists Nos. 420 to 420.
show 19,030 dead, wounded and
missing, and Prussian lists Nos. 400
to 430 show 18.339 (lead, wounded:
and missing. The total Prussian
losses are computed by this paper at | ,
2,377,378. The German military,'
losses include also 335 lists of cbb- '
naltieB of Wurttembnrg forces, 247
" Jlavarinn lists. 248 Saxon lists, sixty!
navy lists, and some lists concerning
German officers In thn Turkish ser-,
vice, according to the Courant. 1
DEPUTY CLERK j
To Be Stationed Here Will Be a'a
? Former Resident of Phila- t
\ delphia, Says Report. i
it
Since the appointment of Samuel I i
R. Harrison to the United States, 1
court clerkship, to fill the vacancy !t
caused by the death of Charles B. j I
Kefauver. there have been various r
rumors as to who would land the.t
v ?i u 1J
deputy CierKBiup nere, wnere u b?iu
t the headquarters of Clerk Harrison j
will be maintained. : c
A telegram from Fairmont 1b to I
the effect that a young man named J
Merrill, of Philadelphia, a graduate S
of Yale and a close friend of .Tudge
Hnyton. may land the deputyshlp at J
Clarksburg, the telegram stating that a
the report came from a reliable i
source. Mr. Harrison is arranging 1
for bis bond of $30,000, and when 1
this Is died and approved and he
takes the oath of office, he will assume
the duties of the position.
COMMITTED TO HOSPITAL. <1
t
The county lunacy commission (
Wednesday evening committed Su- t
san Exllne, of Gore, a lunatic, to the i
I , state liospltal at Weston,. e
AGREE
NDOPER
COME T
! + * + + + * + + + + + *
T
HAPPY SELECTION' +
FOB COURT CLERK. +
+
The Parke rsburg State Jour- +
nal comments as follows on the +
appointment of Samuel It. liar- +
rlson, of this city, as clerk of +
the United States district court:
The appointment by Judge +
' Dayton of the Hon. Samuel R. +
' Harrison, of Clarksburg, to be +
1 clerk of the United States dis- +
trlct court for Ihe Northern +
district of West Virginia, is a +
1 fortunate one?made so not +
' only by the peculiar fitness of +
' the appointee but by another +
' circumstance that is almost +
' equally affirmative. +
1 Mr. Harrison tvas clerk of +
' the United States circuit court +
' when that tribunal was abol- +
1 isbed and the clerkship along +
1 with it by congressional action. +
1 The two courts were merged +
' into one, and the life tenure of +
1 Mr." Harrison iti office was *
' brought to a termination. The *
vacancy has afforded an oppor- +
1 tunity to restore him to a post +
1 that he was well fitted to serve +
' and out of which he had been +
1 mustered by circumstances. +
1 Mr. Harrison's appointment +
' will be pleasing to his friends +
1 and particularly so to the pat
' rons of the office, because of his *
1 efficiency and courtesy. It pal +
1 Hates so far as may be the *
1 profound sense of loss that was *
1 occasioned by the untimely +
1 death of his beloved predcces- +
' sor. +
+
'++++++ +++ ++++
FLUM SAYS i
here is Some Truth in the
Story Published in Exponent
but Not Very Much.
When asked this morning wbethr
it is a fact that he was arrested
esterday by Officer Bartlett on n
arrant sworn out by Mrs. Peoples,
barging hint with attempting to deraud
her out of board money Charles
l. Fluharty, Democratic candidate
or the nomination for mayor of
'larksburg, declared that there was
omc truth in the story, in fact it
ns more truth than noetry.
Fluharty says he was not takes
nto custody and broifght before a
mglstrate. He read the warrant and
ont with the constablo directly to
he Peeples home, where he arranged
o make settlement. ,
"Now this looks pretty black."
aid Fluharty. "however, it will do
ne no harm when the public iearns
hat the board-bill was some meal
Ickets which some tramp printers
oarded out last summer and left
.'Ithout paying.
"As to the sleuthing which the Exonent
employed in llnding out the
ruth, was uncalled (or, there was
othlng secrot about It at all. When
ha fellows failed to pay their board,
hey being In my employ. I had to sells
it?and I did. Coming at this
Ime it will prove the old adage,
every knock's a boost,' "
Flubarty is showing the following
Igncd statement: '
"Clarksburg, W. Va? Feb. 9, 191G.
"I wish to state that the accounts
igalnst Mr. Fluharty were not his
iwn personally, but for men who
vorked for him last summer.
"MRS. M. L. PEEPLES.'
Bp
\re Issued to Three New Incorporations
by the Secretary
of State.
? ' -A TL.
CHARLESTON, *eo, 1"?1 ul~ welary
of state has issued the followng
charters:
The Wellsburg and Easteru Rallrny
Company, authorized capital $5,iPO.
The Incorporator!, all of Wellsnirg,
are: H. J. Arben. C. C.
Ichmldt, Will Moran, E. S. Romlne
nd Harry 0. Wells.
The American Colonization and
levelopment Company, of Fairmont,
rhlch proposes to develop lands for
olony settlement In Tucker county,
luthorized capital, $100,000, and the'
ncorporators are: M, K. Glumlclch,
he Rev. L. Zcrnba and Ell Leaano, of
'alrmont; A. L. Nlckollch. of Edge-!
nont, and Peter Bycllck, of Grant-j
own.
Tha Household Specialty Comlany.
of Clarksburg, Authorized
apltal, $10,000. Incorporators: F.
', Robinson, W. F. Mnrgeson, C. E.
dargeson, C. E. Etsese and Martin
Icbulta. all of Clarksburg.
The Bailey Grocery Company, of
liintlncton. was chartered with an
njhortzed capital of 115,000. The
acorporators, all of Huntington, are
3. S. Bailey, A. M. Ballard, W. H.
Hake, . H. Gould and H. N. Davis.
MINERS STRIKE*
PITTSBURG, Feb. 10,?Nine hnnIred
minora employed In three mines
it the Ford Collieries Company at
lulmervllle, near here, struck today
o enforce a demand that the com?ny
reduce, the price 'of powder from
d$ht to flre cente package,
' ^ ' ' " ' " _ '' '^
MENT f
ATORS 1
0 TERMS
FEATS OF GERMAN COi
HAS NO FEAR THAI
&C(UPTtlH
' HkJ
mKm
Captain Han* Berg-, only biby on i
captains of ]
NORFOLK, Va., Fob. 10.-Lieu-,
i tenant Huns Berg, who, with a crow
of twenty-two Germans, brought the
raptured British liner Appam to
Hampton Roads after a voyage of
over 3,000 miles from the Canary Island,
tallied of the German raider
that captured the vessel and the voyage
of the Appam. He declined to
give a description of the Moewc.
"It is a good vessel," he said. "It
Is better than the average craft we:
call freighters. I would feel aa safe
on It as I would on a cruiser. It can-!
not be sunk easily nnd It can light?
oh it can fight terribly."
"Did you really come through the
Kiel canal on the Mcowc?" lie was
asked.
"That, my friend, Is a war secret.
Do you think a vessel with guns fore ;
and aft, with mines, torpedoes ana i
. ammunition of many kinds on board,!
I could get by many enemy warships?,
If you believe it possible to do that,!
then I will say wc came from Kiel. ]
We did not grow in the Atlantic |
ocean. We did not find guns on the < ]
shores around the Canary islands
and what ammunition we got oB enp'
tured ships would not ha'vo sunk one,
1 lit iPPEO"
i
j When the Woman in the Case
Agrees to Drop Suit for
Breach of Promise.
( V ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FINDLAY, 0., Feb. 10?Just be-!.
I fore Miss Ada Warner, 10, was *o ! (
l have been placed on trial here today !
on a charge of shooting her former
! lover. Norrla H. Powell, 43, Norem-;
ber 13 last, it was announced that
Mi* /.harm* had been drobned by Pow- '
ell on condition that Miss Warner
drop her breach of promise action
aglnst him for f 10,000.
This settlement marks the cod of jj
one of tho strangest eases ever'
! brought Into the Ohio courts. Miss |,
Warner was charged with having donned
men's clothes and entered at ,
night Powell's home where ho lived ,
alone, demanding that he marry her
and when he refused she Is said to;
have shot him. He was found with, j
a bullet In his lung by neighbors and ij
told this story.
Miss Warner was found an hour :
later at her home with knife wounds
In her neck. Indicating attempted'
1 suicide. j (
Miss wurner In her suit alleged: j
that Powell, had promised to marry j
! her twenty-two years ago, and that j
; she waited for him twenty years until
his mother died, and then learned;
that he did not Intend to marry her. >
WIFE PREFERS A CHARGK,
I
I Clarence Prunty, who was recent- <
ly Jailed on a charge of shooting at i
his mother-in-law. Mrs. Lilly Church, i
has been served with a warrant In i
whloh he is charged with threatening :
to kill his wire, Mrs. Prunty having i
had It Issued In Magistrate T. G. i
Nicewarner's court. Both cases were
schedu^d for trial late.Thursday at- !
VOW SEEMS T
HOTEL KlltE. j _ _
CONNELLSVILLE, l'a.. Eeb. 10? |W| If I f\ j\ [v
Klre early today destroyed the York | T I X#r*e I ml T
Kun hotel and n brick huslne&< block
In York linn, this county. Eifteen Jk M^T
Btietds In the hotel had narrow es- j\ 1^ I
rapes. The loss Is estimated ut S50,- /" XJXjL.lm I
MMERCE RAIDER NOT ALL TOLD,SAYS BERG;
1 BRITISH WILL CAPTURE MYSTERIOUS MOEWE
I
' * . til aaMm , ,
ipium wfttaiGMnmans captured ft; Appam at'.an.c(ior at fffimptM Road*.
Iritlsh veaaela sunk by German commerce raider.
ot the vessels we capturod. . only a few, allots were flred.
Long Out in the Atlantic. ! Fired on Two Shins at Once.
"We were In the Atlantic long be-, "We had Ihe most excitement on
fore we sank the seven ships you have: January 11, when we sighted Ihe
heard of. You will hear of others British steamers Cobrldge and Farthat
have gone down from shells flred rlngford almost at the samp time. Wo
by the Moewo." I decided to lake both ships at once
"But don't you think the British1 and we starled flrst for the Corfleet
will capture aud sink the bridge. Wn signalled the vessel to
Moewc?" I stop and flred at It. We kept our
"Tboy will not know It. It has i forward guns trained on It and nfflown
the British flag bofore and1 ter guns on tbe Corbrldge. Tho Corpnssed
British warships. It has an-' bridge was nonrer and we were sure
1 * U ? t ? I- T* Unr. *?1,| (Isnns nf f'll/lmr H Thft Ffl fill fffOHl f
Swereu llieir nigutim. il nun lulu viivu, .......... ...
there were no German ships around, to get away, but we ran It down
It can give any name It likes. It has about 4 o'clock In the afternoon. Wo
no name that they can see. were dropping shells near tho Cor"If
they chase It, It will he a fine' bridge all during the chase and did
race. I would like to see it. She not stop until It hoisted a signal of
will run them perhaps nil tile way to l surrender.
America. It is so fast that it could "We brought both vessels near and
have captured the Appanl If we bnd sent a boarding parly to eacl. We
advised Captain Harrison ten miles blew up the Farrlngford with a few
away that we were coming after him. mines. Tho Corbridge was still
"We captured the Appam by fool-! afloat when I last saw It. It had a
Ing the enemy. That Is a part of'good supply of coal and we needed
war. We circled around him, saw it.
he was no match for us in a battle; "The capture of the other steamers
and then closed in.on him. When a was not important. We were dlsnpnaval
officer ran loward the gun on pointed In mint of them and lost one
the Appam we opened lire on It. Hut, of the ships we wanted most."
SHOOTING TRAGEDYI
ENA CTED ON TRAIN
Man Shoots Wife, Mother-in-! innriii nnn
Law, Brother-in-Law and In'RILM/ ML fill
Tries to Kill Himself. flUllLVT ULnU
DnowNsviLLK,,,pa"MFeb. jo.? Well Known Oil Operator Dies
Hoarding a Pennsylvania train at jn 7anp<jVj||n as fhp Rpglllf
Ccntervlllc, near here, tills morning, 1,1 "IIBSVIIIB do IIIB flBbUll
Fdward Ryan walked into a car in Of InfirmitlBS.
which were seated his wife, Mrs. Lulu
Ryan, his mother-in-law. Mrs. Jane ?y?i~ciatid ????,
Shaneycroft, and his brother-in-law, ZANESV1LI.B, Feb. 10.?Samuel
John Shaneyeroft, and shot each of B. Agnew, agcil 73, ono of the loadLhent.
He then tried to kill himself,1 ing and best known oil operators In
hut wan overpowered by the train, eastern Pennsylvania, West Virginia,
grew, who turned blm over to tho po-.nnd Ohio, Is dud at his .home, 1019
ilee at West Brownsville. I Maple avenue, after an Illness of one
Ryan, who haa been separated week from lnlirmitles.
,'rom his wife for several weeks, j Although rcllred for the lust ten
shouted that he would kill her and ! years, Mr, Agnew was president of
Je pressed the revolver against his the Agnew Torpedo Company, a West,
? * Ul?W Vlesrlnla nnriiomtlnn With h?fld of.
WTlfC'S 1)980111. Tlie snot wuui iubii| iii6>uin , ?b
tnd through her shoulder. He then (flees In this city and branches In Sispressed
the revolver against Mrs. tersvllle, Cairo, Spencer and Penns5haneycr9ft'a
head, but she grasped boro, W. Va. He was born In Belhe
barrel and pushed the woapon [ fast, Ireland, ind came to America
islde. Her finger, however, was! In 1859, when he located In Erie,
jlown off. John Shaneycroft wan (Pa. During (ha following year* he :
text shot, two other bullets being;was aotlvely enraged as an oil operant
after him as he ran from thej ator and followed the development;
ar. The women were taken to the I of the fields In Pleasantvllle, Oil!
Unlontown hospital. ! City, Beaver, Bradford and Washing-*]
jton, Pa.; Slstenville, W. Va? and
IP nccnc throughout the West Virginia and,
ALL UCtUO Ohio fields. With his family he lo- '
cated In Zanoivtlle about five years
should lie llecorded by the Hrst of ag0
April, Sivyni die Clerk. The body wnn taken to SIsterivllle
.?T T , . where Interment was made TliursVII
those who have deeds to record ,jay
should have them in the hands of
County Clerk J, J.,Crews for recordation
before April i, in order {hat the GASSAWAY KATES,
taxes for 1916 ean be assessed , igalnst
the new owners, If the deeds Under advisement by the itate
are not recorded by the dnto mention- publip service commission is the aped
the taxes will be assessed against plication of the Gassaway Developthe
former owners, Those Interested ment Company to Increase rates
will no doubt take advantage and charged consumers of water at the
hare the deeds In the county clerk s Hraxton h&v
0 BE CI
IALT CHAL
ION OF Mil
MARKETING
nnii mcc
rfUllLIIILd
j TOBEBETTER:
Co-operation Selling and Read- '
justment of Rates Planned
by Farm Official.
OH A It LiESTON, W. Vn.. Fob. 10.
!?West Virginia, fruit growers are
about (o como lulo tbelr own, Ih tlio
1 bollof of Colonol 0. C. Pierce, of
, Klngwood, who la in charge of the
market* tllvlalon of tile atnte depart- 1
nient of agriculture. Colonel Fierce.
; who came to the city to confer with
hla chief, CommlaHionor Howard Wll-|
llnms, Hpolte optimistically thin morning
of the outlook.
> The pinna of the dlvlnionn now are 1
Drat to organize the growera and
I truck gnrtlenera of the atnte Into oo-j
i operate selling orguizutlona and then
to bring about un opening of the out-'aldo
market* througnt better trans-;
portntion fncllltlra brought about.
, largely through a rcudjuatment or
I rate*. One of tho objects of the dli
vision la to educate the shipper* to i
| hotter packing of thoir shipments.
"Much hna already been done." auld
Colonel Pierce, "but we nre going to .
do more. In 1914. for examplo, only
i 11 rara wore shipped to the mnrkets
of tho South; In 1915 over Kin cars:
wore sent; and through tho reduction;
: of frolgbl rates In the middle of the
season, shipments were quadrupled,
| to points west of the Ohio rlvor. Tho.
| aim In now to open up tne markets
1 further Went and South."
Colonel Pierce cited an Instance of |
the inequalities In freight rates that!
are said to exist. It cost $37-4 to I
ship a car of peaches from Romney
I to Logan, thin state, and tl}e same
: shipment CouTd hare been mAde to
| Now Orleans for $60'loss money, The
1 rate from Romney to Charleston on 1
peaches Is 60.3 cents per 100 pounds, i
while the rate to Boston Ib eight cents <
less. Apples to'go at a third lessrl
tariff, but the proportion Is the same, i
It Is the purpose of the division to i <
get the express and railroad heads to-; 1
! gether In an agreement with theji
growers of all fruits and truck and > i
bring about an equitable adjustment
of rates and an Improvement of ship- i
ping facilities that will result in a '
! might boost for these Industries In i
. ull sections or tne state. i
DEATH II
I
Of Philip Drunnington, Former 1
Clarksburg Citizen, Occurs '
at Rockdale, Texas. >
i
Belated Information roaches the '
ton at Rockdule, Tex., December 28. t \
He was a son of Noah and Katherlno |
Dunnlngton, former reaidenta of!)
Clarksburg, and he wub born about ,
1840. He was a brother of the late |
William Dunnlngton, of Weston.
'Phil" Dunnlngton. as he was i
called, Is remembered by many of the
older citizens of tills county, as ho,
clerked for many years In the storej
of Lloyd LowndeB, father of R. T.
Lowndes, and they are all pained to |
learn of his death. He went to Texas
about 1870, where he had resided
ever since.
TRAIN CRASH ;
i
Results in Fatal Injury to Con- '
ductor and Less Serious
Hurt to Another. ;
fir aisoc'io rit.f.) t
McKEESrORT, Pa., Feb. 10.?Lee f
Dolan, Baltimore' and Ohio rrelght <
conductor, of Connellsvllle, was prob- 1
ably fataly injured and Aaron Ward, '
also of Connellsvllle, was less serl- *
ously hurt this morning when a light
engine or which Ward was fireman,
crashed Into the freight at Rob- t
bins Station near here. The men wore
taken to the McKeesport hospital.
WOLD ,
By T. J. Lynch and Company to ,?
the W. L. Morrison Store '
Company, New Concern, j
The flrni of T. J. Lynch and Company
desires to announce that It has
sold its dry goods store and given a
lease on Its building to the W.'L.
Morrison-Store Company. The stock ]
will he Invoiced and turned over toll
the now concern about the tenth or j j
fifteenth of March. This sale Is made, t
on acount of other Interests requiring! f
the porsonal attention of the owners. ,
. The store room will bo remodeled
on the first and second floors and other
Improvements, including the furnishing
of a basement, room under the
entire building, wtll.be made. Work
has already commenced on the im- ?!
provement and the owners hope to 1
iRTAIN
LENGES
!. THORNE
That Mr. Brandies Did Not Act M
in Good Faith in Railroad
Case.
NOTHING TO CONCEAL
Tells the Committee That the
Position of Brandies in Case
Was Unknown to Him. '.J
(IT AISOCIATID .RV.fl)
WASHINGTON, Kob. 10.?JaniM W.
I'nrmnlt, chief examiner of tho Interline
Commerce Commission before the .
Wnt^mili-commltteeInVosugatlBB 3SJ
ho nomination of Louis D. H rondels
ii the nnpreino court li?nch Thursday i
ihnllengod the declaration of Clifford -l-a
riiornc, chairman of the Iowa rati- J
ond cummlsHlon, that Mr. Brandete ?
mil concealed from him the attitude ".3
ip would take In arguing tho eastern . .vna
freight rate case before the commtaWednesday
Mr. Thome, who was
immolated with Mr. Urandcla in the . '3
iriiil of the rate case for shippers and '
the commission, dsclared he was 'J
'dumbfounded" when Drandels at the
miset of hie closing argument con*
cdert the contention of the railroads >Jj
lint existing rate returns were Inulpqiiato
for the prosperity of the
rmds nnd the host interasts of the
mlillc.
"There is one Incident firmly fixed
in my mind," said Mr. Carmalt, "re- '<M
tardlng a conversation Mr. Thome ij
mil with me on the second day,of the < M
irguinent on the rate case. Mr. $
Jlinriic. I understand, stated that , .'\jj
ivhon the commission fixed the allotment
of time for attorneys to argue .vgB
lie case he had asked the privilege
Ji being permitted to fallow counsel 3
or the shlppera Instead of opening
ho nrguinenl.
"Mr. Thorne asked me what Mr.
Urandels'n position would be In the- ,J?rs
iritument. There was no doubt In .^*9
my mind what Mr. Brandels's posllion
would be. I had discussed 'It
with him and he had told rae. There
.,..*..{.,1.. ?? .H.nMlHnS In Cfttl- l&fll
ceil It from Mr. Thorne. I apt eonfldotit
that I told Mr. Thorns that 1 is
Mr. Brandsls would take the post-" .
Hon that the net operating Income iv;?
of the carriers was not adequate with' ,*2
special stress on the central freight
woelRtlon territory. Further, I said vM
lie would take the position that the. , ;*
methods pursued by the carriers to VshM
obtain greater revenue through a . ''4Qq
horizon ton Ave per cent increase wag. ..wS
not the proper method of Increasing*;'33a
their revenues.
"I am quite clear that It was tha^Jl
result of this conversation that Mr.,t
Thorne wrote Mr. Bradels a note ,,i";
unking about a change In .the allot-'S
mont of time. It Is very strongly my ;.y9|
repression that because Mr. Thorne. -{H
recognized the attitude Mr. Brendels JjS
would take that Mr. Brandels got the.. '.J
conception that Mr. Thome wantedin
opportunity to answer him In addl- 'S
;lon to his main argument in the ;,l
case." > vjW
Chairman Chilton stated that hit
ihderstandlng was that Mr. Brandels'1 !i
vm employed to assist In deVbloplngL ty]
'all sides of the case" and asked Car- '.vrj
nail If Brandels helped Thorns
rolop his side. Carmalt replied thai*;#
is did and said that.tho data collected
'rora the railroads by the commission
mder the general direction of Mr
3randeia was available to all. '.j .
Hp \m
3y Fluharty to Constable Reuben
flartlett and Not to ;
Justice Nicewamer. .-Mm
????? |
Concerning an article In Tburt-y
lay morning's Exponent, the follow!-'
ng affidavit has been made and
landed the Telegram for publication:;^
Jtalo of West Virginia,
flnnntv of Harrison:
This day Reuben Bartlett pec- J'A
onally appeared before me, T. 0, W
,'lccwarner, a justice of Harrisoa3j|
ounly, and being by me first duly
worn', deposes and says he did rd-Sufi
elve,a check made to blm by C. 'P.jsij
riuhorty, ror a board bill for $25(j)jtt9|
nit not Squire Nlcewarner, as the'ii
unerlcan-Exponont stated. WifaJ
R. J. BARTLETT. C. tt C;; ?|
Taken, subscribed and sworn ,*tb$H
IiIb 14th day of Febraury.l 918.-;sl
T. G. NICEWARNER, J. P., j|
r-VFILLEDTONNAGE. Ifjm
tmr amociatko raut) ' 1 ,'j
NEW YORK. Feb. 10.?The &M
illed orders of the United StttpM
Iteel Corporation "on January Sit?
mounted to 7,922,767 tons, acconKB
ng to the monthly statement IssqtffljB
'hunday. This is an lncrease^mjB
ie.it 7 tons over Docember.
BROODS DEAD.
( V AStOCIATBO H??tM &??]
NEW YORK. Feb. 10?BelvtdaSB
Irooks, vice president of the Western*
'nlon Telegraph Company, dted ?t?
Is home here Thursday of hesflH
rouble. He had been In poor boalth
or aaveral months. His death.qmH
udden.
AnnLLEBYl)iCTg^/I|
,ir AsweiATis Nail Tl;
nel betwen the French and Germans
