T
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 11)10.
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
number :w.
ENTIRELY OUT QF
POLITICnM
JUSTICE HUGHES
)cclares in a Private Letter He
Js Totally Opposed to lTse of
His Name in Connection with
Presidential Nomination.
THE UTTER MADE PUBLIC
in llltiliio Af r K Illflt IIC
Knows Nothing of a Movement
Started in His Behalf by For
mer Postmaster-General F. H.
Hitchcock in the South.
RECORD OF BRANDEISm fj)g
Bl SEAPLANES OH
ENGLISH GDAST
ATTACKED AT SENATE
COMMITTEE HEARING
Clifford Thorne, Railroad Commissioner of Iowa,
Charges That the Wilson Nominee for
Supreme Court Vacancy, Conceded to the
Cause of the Railroads in the Five per Cent.
Advance Rate Case While Acting- as Counsel
for Interstate Commerce Commission.
nshitlglnli. I eh.
Louis P. Brandi'i. us counsel Tor t ho
Interstate commerce uomtntesMn in the
flic per cent. advance rate ease, enn
nik'cl to tin cause 1 f llu! railroads ti
III.' fiiln! Injury of the public Interest,
Clifford Thorne. inllroad
of Iowa, 1 1 11 1 1
the into case,
argmg t1i,c;n;is practically fatal to the ea.ise of the
publi". our work was useless."
Scnntoi Flctchct, questioning the wit
ness regarding li.strtictions to .Mr. Bran
flf Ih in tli' letter from t !-.o interstate
onuuorco commission relating to his em
ployment a counsel In the late case.
cnmmlsslnnt r I asked tf It was not a fact that Mr. Rinn-
an associate counsel In "els was engaged to sec Hint "all sides
appealed to-night to the! weie taken cam of.
Washington. Id. - Representative
Raseom Slomp. chairman of the Vlr-
....... ..1.11 ....itmiiitini r,..,iti
lllil 1 ui 11 1) 1 no 1'" -
nade pnblk a letter trotn Justice
lllghes declaring
I am totally opposed to the use of
iv ii.iini In connection wnn no- nuni
1 ation and to the selection or instruc
1011 of (inv delegates ill m.v Interest.
.i eetlv or remotely ."
Justice Hughes's letter, made nubile
th his consent, wis tu reply to a. let-
mini Mr Slemp which Informed the
stlco that Frank II. Hitchcock, post-
... 1 1 .... t ni..(
nasti r-genorai iiniicr i icsiueui ......
South favoring the justice for the n
juilillcnn presidential noinination.
Chairman Slemps letter to .ii.awe.c
Hushes In part and the reply m uiu
just follows
Till-: SI.KMI' LKTTKR.
,ioiit I" dnvs ago a movement stnrled
In the State (.Virginia) ili-ctci irnni .p
York cit liy 1 rank II. Hitchcock, funnel
lioslmaitcscnerul. favoring ou as a
li-pulillean nominee, tie has secured
mound him in our Stn'c a few .if Ills
eld appointees. II. K. Cabell, foimei com
missioner of Internal revenue, now living
m Richmond, Va.; li. A. Davis, post
master under Mr. Illteheock. ut 1 lucky
Mount, and S Blown Allen, torme.r post
master at ntauniein. n
enclose yon n copy of a letter written
liv (. il. S. Grown Allen to one .11 my
friends, who forwarded the same to me.
J 11 this letter Is explained a movement by
ail Hitchcock, and I have other letters
if similar (haiactcr. Vou will observe It
iiilvocntcs all att.i k on me, as Slat-
chairman, and the organization gencranv,
villi thr statement lint Mr. llittlunc'c
iv to be chairman uf H'e national uom
11 ltte( and again l stn.aster.enein'.
Uieicforc l'ie ellspensci uf p.itronaci .
,i-d that thoe who ciieloi-e hi "levs
m 11 Mjpport " 1 a' presidential candidate
v 1 i ive onimensur.il" consideration
afterward.
I am not willing that I should be placed
11 1 he a'tltude of opposing you as a can
didate foi the presidency, and that Is the
1 icn of thousands of republicans in our
State, neither do I think It is right for -i
1 ght to be Inaugurated In our State
sciiinst me ami oiner.s upon mu su..u.-i-tinti
that we oppose you.
I am writinc you at the earliest mo
jnent to .icipiaint you of the situation that
lias so lecently developed under your
name, and at the same time to asuie you
that there has been no hostility exhibited
toward you anywhere In our State, but on
the contrary the sicaiest admiration and
friendship exist for Mu
' Vcrv respect fully,
C KASCOM Sl.KMP.
fe ruary 3, 1910 "
TUB Tl TCI I IKS I.I.TTi:n
.li sllce Iimlirs leplled:
"M lie.ie Mr. Slemp:
"Yo r let'er of I'ebruarv ". has been ie
1 rived I am entirely out of politics, ami
1 now notbinc whatmer of the mutter
10 which you refer. 1 am totally opposed
to the use of my name In collection with
ihe nomination and to the selection r
li's'rnctlon of any delecatcs in my Intcr
rt either directly or remotel.
Ver" lueerely yoms,
CHAr.T,i:s n. urnnns."
l he letter w hlr-, CoiiKi-essman filcmp cn-
'ofed In his communication to .lustlce
! Inches which was written to an unnamed
flirnil of the Virclnlan by S. Urown Allen,
former jiostmaster at Staunton, was also
made public Allen wrote that he bad been
rnlled on 'he lone distance telephone from
New York bv Mr. Hitchcock and ndvlsed
to so o lUchmond to confer with Mr. Ca-l.ell
"Mr fnhell laid before me the cam-
) 'lien. ' Miens letcr fald, which Is as
follow.
"The frleniU of .lustlce Iluches, with
r;oernor Whitman at the head, not to.
ppthcr and sent to Mr. Hitchcock, who
was, ns T suppose you know, about the
bent politician in the conntr.v nnd -ir-ranced
to place him In full charge of
Hie Hiiches campaign. Tin- nrraiiKe.
p out l not to antagonize lloosevnlt
I 'cause It will be surely lliidhea or
"Uonsfvclt, and under the arratiRement
Hitchcock, of course, will bo poHtmas-ter-enerl
and the pretnlnr of the next
Administration. Ho will be made, nt
Chleaso, chairman of tho niitional com-
jnltteo In placo of Illlles and will be
In full charjro of the campaign until
the vote Ih counted In the November
1 lei tioti "
The reference In Allen's letter which
prompted ConKressman Hlemp to com
iniinlcate with Justlco lluehes wan 11s
f oIIowr
"Tliey know, too, full well, that the
person who assiimu to speak for the
iirKuiilzttlnn hern 1110 dead against
1 ither IIiikIich or rtoosevelt, and per-
ioiih lodkliiK fr recounltlou uinJer
I ie next administration would do r.cll
1 . nut a black iiiaru HiroiiKh llielr
1 mi.-M in mi eudorsenicnl "
ludlclary siih-eommlttee of the Senate
not to lecommend contirmatioii of Mi
llrandcls' nomination to the Supreme
Court of the l"nltd States.
Mr. Thorne arsued that It would be
very costly to the American People to
put men on tile supreme court bench with,
pre-concclved notions as to hi','h ieturn-'
on inllroad Investments In view of the
fact that questions Involved In the na
tional ,tppiuleicnt of railroad" now
hoIiik on ultimately would hare to be
determined by that lilbuniil. Summlm:
up Ills case be declared:
"1 have shown conclusively from the
tecoriN that Mr. Hiiindeis has cominlttfii
himself to the proposition that a ictiirn
on tlie capital stock of railroads of seven f
and one-half per cent. I to use his oti'
words, 'rather iiIkr.'i 1 ill .' That Is the
letuin which the Interstate commerce
commission unanimously deteimlmd was
adequate. Further, the Investors of this
country have decided that a stock ield
Us seven and one-half per cent. In the
market place of the (ountry Is worth
one hundred cents on the dollar. 1 have
repeatedly challenged any one to name
a secuilty which earns that amount that
does not lommand par or above par.
"The other proposition wliii.li I have
attempted to show i finitely Independ
ent of the merits of the rate case aim
whether Mr. BrandeW was right or wrens
In his position as to the adequacy of
railroad revenue. The other proposi
tion related to a matter of professional
ethics. I have shown you that Mr. llran
dcls was employed by the Intel. state com
mcicu commission with specific instruc
tions not to advocate any particular the-
I Mr. Thorpe said that tbeie wan such
' a proposal In the commission's, letter,
but that later on In the letter It was
speiitleally stated that Mr. Hratidels
should undertake the burden of the
"other side" because ihe commission
, knew that the rallioads would be ade
I quatcly repneiited.
.Mr. Thorne occupied the stand at two
lony: sessions of the silb-comniltlce, clo
I11K his testimony late to-night. To
moirow the sub-committee plans to hear
lepiesentatlves of the Cnlted Shoe Ma
chinery company, with which Mr. l'.r.m-
dels was once associated as counsel.
(In cross-examination Mr, Thome said
he had no Information that Mr. Hrau-
Homhs Dropped into Kentish
Towns Two Women and a
Child Injured Four Missiles
Struck near Schoolhouse.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.; J.r oil I c
- -r tittt t t t -r t t m t t-i n till ll( I UILLU
ADDISON COUSTY
FURIOUS COMBATS IN FRANCE
As Usual licrlin and Paris Dis
ap;rce as to Results Germans
Report Repulse of Russian In
fantry in Riga Region No
News from Other Fronts.
London, Ken. S. Two women and one
child were liijuied this afternoon when
two llei man hcapluncs inlded the Kentish
coast, dropping bombs. Three missiles fell
on the outskirts of Itamsgate and four
near a school at llro.idstuli .-. The mute
tlal damage Is said by the war office to
have been contlned lo the shaltcrlng of
glass.
The attack was made In bioad daylight.
At ;!::;u o'clock thl. afternoon two sea
planes wcio reported approaching th3
Kent coast and a few minutes later they
dels had untitled the inllloads as to his) Hew over Hamsg.ite and Hroadstulrs.
conclusion that the levenucs were innde-1 . number of naval and niilitaiy aero-
qu.itc. lie aigiied that Mr. lirandcls
having leuihed the conclusion he did
should have retired fiom the case, or
al least from that phase of the ense.
and notilled associate counsel of Ills
conclusions.
Mr. Thorne said ?70."" was laised by
j p.i' kers, cattle shippers, grain men and
' other State railroad commissioners to
! nay the expenses of preparing the data
lie bad presented to the commission lu
the western advance fi eight rate case.
Mr. Thorne said lie was a republican.
DMFKNDS IIRANOKIS.
I.ieut.-tlov. John M. Kshleman of Call
1 fornla, president uf the California rail
1 road commission at the time the advance
rate cases weie pending, next took the
i stand, explaining that he happened to be
in Washington and that somebody had
given liis name to the committee as a
i witness. lie. vigounisly defended Mr.
orv as to the disposition of the case.
He was asked If he was willing to take Branded.
the buiden of seeing the other side of I "1 have no charges to make,
(be e.ns as Heveloned and told that "Our State was interested In t
,- .llrr,n,l vt.l.. wr.i.1,1 he ii .Inmin tnl V mm I liave never oeen anie 10 leu w nj
caicl foi. I have tried to show that Mr. -Mr. Thorne feels as he does about Mr.
Hramlels hud expu-ssed the greatest of I Brandcls' action, and I have not found
. ...m.i. n. n 1.1 11,0 mo.., union of Hie tale any rallioacl commission man
,.. . . -
case liy associate counsel
"I have shown that Mr. Hramlels co
operated in a friendly manner dining
the conduct of tlie case with asoUate
lo'uisel. .vet. at the critical time. Mr.
Br.nidcif, without winning to other coun
sel, after all argument hail been closed
on iiehalf of the public, conceded en
tirely to the railroads. Had f known
that such was going to be his position, 1
had he ad Iseil us of his decision, step
certaiid.v would have been taken for mil
piotction and we would have demanded
an oppoi tunlty to be heard after Mr.
Hramlels bad 1 loed the argument for
the public.
"Coming from Mr. lirandeis, who par
ticipated witli ns in cross-examination
during the rate ase, and who was em
ployed by the Interstate commerce com
mission, I consider that his concession
who does
not agree with me, Mr. lirandeis never
suggested to the commission that the
railroads should get the live per cent
Increase they were asking for. Arid as
to a bieaih of faith and unptofesMonal
coniluet charee 1 want to say that if
Mr Braudels had been appearing before
me as ptesident of the California rail
road commission I should have felt very
much surprised If he had not stated his
position f lankly.
"There has been too much of a ten
dency In this country by those repre
senting commissions to think that they
must agree with all the contentions: of
the public. A npresentatlve of a com
mission should be impaitlal In presenting
Ills conclusions. I think Mr. Brandeis'
action was entliely justitled under the
letter asking him to become special
counsel for the commission."
plane and seaplanes ascended to nttacl
the (lermans, but they immediately ie- j
mated. As no engagement between tho
aim en has been icpurtcd, It Is presumed
tha the tieimaiis made good their escape.
Of the four bombs diopped In Broad-
stairs all tell near a sclioolhonsc. Three
of them exploded.
The r'reiich and the' llei mans have been
engaged in furious combats 011 the sector
of the western battle front between I. ens
and Arras, whole recently there lias been
gnat actlvltv. Berlin icports that to tlie
west of the town of Vlmy the Germans
captured Fiench position, over a length
of S05 yards. Paris admits that tlie Ger
mans, after the explosion of two heavily
charged mines, got 11 foothold In paits of
a French trench but says that they weie
driven out by hand grenade attacks.
Southwest of Vlmy. in the vicinity of
tlie rou! Hmnluc from Neuvlllo tu Thelu,
the Gil limns detonated anOtlictiiilne'Aiul
then essayed an Infantry attack ngalnst
the French, which was repulsed.
I'aris also icports that the French J11
a grenade attack drove out the Ger
mans from a small post between Pols-
sons nnd niielm and that the French
battel ies have badly damaged German
organizations in the forest of Apremont,
suuthcaM of St. Mlhlel.
On the Russian front Berlin tecords the
icpnlse of Bussian infantry attacks at
several points in the Riga region. A
Fetrograd dfispatch says seveie lighting
is in process of development In this dis
trict, the preliminary aitillery duels hav
ing changed Into bombardments of gieat
intensity.
Nothing new has come through con
cerning the situation on the Austro
Itallan line In Belgium or in Asia, where
the Russians and British at various
points aie engaged with the Tuiks.
Great Britain's teply to the American
government's protest against ihe British
blockade has been delayed and possibly
will not be sent to Washington during
tho luesent month.
vacancy with the rank of temporary lieu
tenant-general, tlie announcement added.
On December H last General Dorrieu,
who bad commanded the British second
armv hi Flanders was appointed to the
supreme command of Ihe forces updat
ing In Hast Afilca. That lie was in active
r I fmm Hi4 .U -nnh j command there was Indicated as recently
Menial irom UlltncOCK. ,-i,nlan. -j llc ., nniclal statement
!. "The. statements! .,sPtl linden embodied a report from
the statement" in the letter alleged to
have been written by S. Brown Allen.
He declared that Frank II. Hitchcock
had lust told liim over the long distance
telephone that tin whole story was a
fabrication.
MIDDLEBURY.
I'.ohcrt Towle, who has been 111 for live
yearn with hardening of tho attcrles, died
Friday morning nt the ago "f t years.
J lc was born In llcmingsfoid, Canada,
find ennie beie when 11 voting man. Ho h
survived 1V wife, two stepdaughters,
Miss Delia Douglas of this village and
Mrs. Dennis Mack of Cornwall; n brother.
John Towle. of Cornwall, and sister. Mis.
Prlscllla Itnhlnsou of Athol, Mns. Tim
funeral was held at the home Sunday
nftcrnoon at two o'clock. Mr. Towle. was
for many years a prominent business
man of tills village, having been In the
Ice business.
Abe Tromblcy. who has been evading
tho ofllccrs for three jears, charged with
illegal tlshlng on Lake Champlaln, and
who at the time was allowed his liberty
on agreeing tu come torwald when want
ed, was captured by Fish and Game War
den George Chaffee Filday. On Satuidav
morning he was taken hefore Justice A.
W. Dickens, pleaded guilty to the cliarge
and was lined $15 and co'ts amounting to
S20.J0. State's Attorney Allan It. Htiute
vant prosecuted. J. I'. Hoyt has returned
from Whiting, where he preached at the
Congiegatlonal Chmch Suuday..-Mr. and
M,. A. H. I.angworthy of Burlington,
former residents, who have been visiting
111 town for a few day.-, have returned to
Hurllngton.-M.lsa Fiances Plpci. who has
been at the Maiy Fletcher hospital for
few weeks, undergoing an operation for
appendicitis, has returned home. Miss I-.s-ther
Frost, 11 teacher In the high school
at llar'laud, Is In town for a few days
with her patents. Mr. and Mrs. F.. A.
Frost. The partnership of K. A. Fro-t and
William 11. Brewster in the ownership of
the Park drug store has been dissolved,
Mr. Frost buying his partner'? Interest.
The funeral of Ilobeit Towle was held
at his late home on College .sheet Sun
day afternoon at two o'clock. The Flow
A. A. Lancaster otflriated and burial was
in the West cemeteiy. The beareis weie
Hnmnhrev Sullivan. Kin'St L. lll'estl's,
Charles A. Ltnan, charlis II. Ilartl"
and L. .1. Gorham of this village, aim
Judsou Stevens of Cornwall. Ihe lloral
offeilngs were many.-William 1- o-
land called heie on account of the
death and btlllal of the wife of Ills
brother, Jerome Noland, left Monday for
Kusthampton, Mi..i. Hal tholomew Lan
ders, skilled employe at the marb'e wmks,
after a week's Illness was able to ic
turn to his woik on Mondav, having
had a seveie attack of Ihe grip. Willis
X. Cady, master of the State Grange, and
Mis. Cady returned Sunday from Duni
merstou. wheie on Saturday night they
attended exercises in commcmotatlon of
the paying off of a final debt cm the ie
cently constructed Grange ball, built at
a cost of $1. COX Harry Abbey, who has
been onDiivd for l' dav", has so far re
covered as to be able to resume his duties
at the ltcgistcr office. Miss Bessie
Gipson has gene to New Vork city, wlicie
she will tike .1 position In a hospital.
Miss Louise Itobertson, who has been
contlned foi pi days, Is able to be about
again. -Mr. and Mrs Georg- II
Maislull, Mr and Mrs. W F.
Clement. Charles L. Bridlcv and .Mis't
Clara Marshall have gone to Mobile. Ala.,
where thev will spend some time.
B. L. Nichols, who has been contlned for
two weeks hv Illness, has so far lecovered
as 'o he able to resume his duties at
the Frost pharmacy. Monday, niarliet
I
confined a few days with the grip.
The case of Chntles Coruido, whose home
was raided !'J days ago, tho officers, find
ing 11 keg of beer, has again been post
poned until Thursday morning. The ie
spondent Is out under J'!") bonds, The
annual leunlon of St. Mary's Catholh
1 liureu wan held In the church ball 'J'ues
day evening with a large attendance. The.
students of the Mlddlebilty College gave
11 musical piograin after the supper which
was served fiom live lo tight 0'1'unk -George
Champagne, who has been con
fined by Illness, has so far recovered as
to be able to be at his ulcirc again..
Willis N. 'ady, master of the State
Gtunge, will speaK at a meeting unoer
the .inspires of Bomoscen Grange In
custleton Friday evening. Frank Lasher
of Happy Valley is ill and makes two
trips a week to Burlington, where he Is
under the cam of a specialist. Mis. G.
D. Pciry lias returned to Itutland after
a few days' stay In town with her bus
land. -Miss M.nule Thomas of Benning
ton as at the home 'if Ce.vlou Kddy.
The P.ev. A. A. Lancaster, who has
been pastor of the Cong-egatlonul Church I
of this village for a little over four years, ,
has tendered Ills resignation to take
effect Much SI. Mr. I-ancatter will go to
Voungstovvn, Ohio, where be will be tho
pastor of the Plymouth Congiegatlonal
Church. It. S. Benedict, who for 30 years
has been In the grocery bu.-lncss, has sold
out his business to Messrs. S. V. and J.
(.'. Morton of New York State. The store
U now dosed for Inventoiy and will be
the lest of the week. Tin- new proprietors
will reopen It Monday. -Mr. Benedict has
not fully made up his mind as to what
be will do. Tlie Young People's society
of the Memoilal Baptist Church will hold
.1 Valentine sociable In the church par
lors Monday evening. Charles Severance,
who lias been 111 for two weeks, has so
far recovcied as to ho able to be about
again. The boy scouts will hold a sup
per In the Methodist Church Friday eve
ning from six to eight o'clock
to lalse money for for their annual
camp. Mrs. Ira II. LiFletir, who has
been 111 for a few davs, is slowly re
covering. Wot d has been received from
Miss Jennie Kddy, a resident of this vil
lage, who .1 few wee'.s ago went to
Uochcster, N. V., to slay a few weeks
with relatives, that while on a ilt in
Syracuse, N. V., she fell and broke her
ankle. She was taken to the home of her
brother In P.ochestei, wheie she will re
main until she is able to leturn home.
News was received Tuesday evening that
Miss Uuth Wilghl. daughter of .Mrs.
;ileu Wright of Midcllebury. who ha.
heen dangerously III with pneumonia for
two weeks in Burlington is at least hold
ing her own and that she has a chance
of recovery. Mr. and M-s. Arthur Blssett
have gone to Rutland to attend the fu
neral this morning of William" P.. Casey,
; foimcr Mlddlemuy icsKent and
brother-in-law of Mi. hisneU.Mrs.
( harlos 1. Button has returned from
Walllngfoid, where she has been on a
10 days' visit to her aunt, Mrs. Delia
Young. Howard Burke and William
llanley have returned to West Itutland
after a few days In town oil business.
The prudential committed of school dis
ci let No. 1 has votud that there shall b
110 more high school dances, also that
on stormy nays ineie suuu oc 'mil uie
sesilon of school, from nine to one o'cloik
lu all grades. There will be a meeting
of the Parent-Teacher association at the
high school building on Friday, February
IS, at three o'c lock. Miss Mary Shea has
READY IN LESS
Tl
IN 10 WEEKS
Main Features of New Prepared
ness Measures Have Already
Heen Whipped into Shape
No Division in Committee.
BILLS OF TWO HOUSES DIFFER
Final Legislation Will Probably
Re Worked Out as a Compro
mise in Conference Promi
nent in House Bill Will Be
Federalization of Militia.
eggs brought j. cents and butter j gone to New York city to take a post-
WHY RAILROAD EMPLOYES
ARE MAKING DEMANDS
New York. Feb.
in the alleged letter from Mr. Brown
Alien of Staunton, Vn,., so far a they
relate to me, arc entirely without foun
dation," Frank H. Hitchcock said here
to-night.
Mr. Hitchcock said Colonel Allen oncn
callftd him on the telephone while ho was
in Washington, but the narnn of Justice
Hughes was not mentioned In tho con
versation nor wern any of the other mat
ters referred to In Mr. AIIch'b letter.
Mr. Hitchcock added that he knew of
no organized effort to brine about the
nomination of Justice Hughes.
LIEUT. BER(i MAKES
GIFT' TO RED (JKUSS
"Story a Fabrication."
I' minnd 'a , Feb. !. Itoyal 11. Ca
r said to night that m far as he
Liew thcra was not 11110 wonl of trulh In
(.Ih of MUr lliiir fr IlngUsh ltr-
llef I'linil CnpDurcd ltli Appnni.
Norfolk, Va., Feb. f. - Lieutenant Berg,
commander of the German prize snip
Appam. announced to-rbry he wrnrlrt give
to the. American Red Cross "mite" boxob
found aboard the ship and 1 ontalnlng
ontribilted for relief of widows and
orpharm In F.iiRland. Tho boxes provlously
had been reported f ontlsc.iteu uy tno
raider Mnowe -when she enpturcxl tho Ap
pam. Tlie Moowe, however, did take about
jmnno worth of gold liars rrom trie snip,
Lieutenant Berg paid.
The value of tho Appam's cargo dis
position of wblch must await a decision
of tho Washington govcrnmont -was esti
mated by port officials to-day at about
$nv,ivi0, Including 1,'") tons of cocoa woith
I LAKH).
him 011 satisfactory progress that was
being made with the campaign.
While the British expedition against Ger
man Ilast Africa was organized In No
vember General Smuts w-as placed In
command and eaily hi December an
nouuceil that tho entire foice asked for
tho oxpeditlon had been recruited. Tho
sending of General Smith-Dorrlen to Af
rica to take supreme command of all the
forces for tlm Kast African operation fol
lowed shortly thereafter.
Schmidt Must Die.
Albany, Feb. Hans Schmidt, the
former New 1 ork priest convicted of
murder In the first degree for the death
of Anna Auinuller lu New Ymk in Sep
tembcr. 1013, must pay the penalty for
his crime in the electric chair in Sing
Sing prison during Hie week of Fehru
nry 1" Governor Whitman tq-nlsht cle
dined to interfere, with carrying out the
sentence.
Schmidt was convicted at his second
trial nnd the court of appeals arfiimecl
tho conviction, but called the attention
of the Governor to the claim made by
the tnnn's attorneys that Miss Aumuller
died from the effects of a criminal oper
ntlon and therefore Schmidt could only
lie tried on a charge of manslaughter.
Tho executive granted Schmidt a respite
of "0 nays In which be investigated the
condemned man's claim.
GEN. SMITH-DORRIEN
RELINQUISHES COMMAND
Wbn In ClmrKc of HrltJInh Forces Op
crnllng In Kant Africa.
London, Feb. 9. General Sir lloracn
J.iickvvooil Suilth-Doriieii has tcHnrpiitihcil
Ihe (Oininancl of tho British forces operat
ing In Kat Africa owing to III health it
wnn ofllclally ajinoiiucod to-day.
Gen Jan Christian Smuts, tho minister
of the interior mines, nnd defermcf, of the
1 11I011 of South Attica has accepted tho
Seeks $5,000 Damages.
Brattleboro, Feb, !.- , suit uis Hied
In county court this morning In which
Kdgar D. Busby sues the Deerflold Lum
her corporation of Wilmington to recover
Jo.tVfl for personal Injuries alleged to
have leen received while. In tho employ
of tho corporation op April IS, l.ilfi.
i ne piamtur claims Mint while cm
ployed in the bobbin factory of the con
rem on that date he was ordered to
remove some wooden blorks from
steam chest and that throng hlhp care
lessness of the corporation he. was struck
by another delivered Into the steam chest
and his right leg broken between tho
kneo ami hip and he was otherwise seri
ousdy Injured.
Ilcnsiins for IllKlit-llour 111) nnd
crriiKcil WniscH Are Mnled.
Cleveland, Ohio, Feb, n. The first ollicial
statement of the emplojes on the Impend
inc controversy between railroads of tho
ountry and their train crews over work
ing hours was Issued here to-nighl, It wai
signed by W. S. Stone, grand chief engl
neer of the Brotherhood of IKomoliv.;
nglnceis: W, S. Carter, ptesident of llm
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and
i:nglneinen, L. K. Sheppard, acting piesi.
dent of the Order of Railway Condiietois
nnd W. G. Lee, president of the Brother
hood of Railroad Trainmen. These or
ganlzallons cinim to icpresent approxi
mately toiixo employes on 5.S lines of
railroad.
The eight-hour day movement, says thu
statement, Is based wholly upon the Jus
lice of a work day of icasonable hours
that wilt permit the, iiimii further to
separate the dead line between work and
wages. Over time In road service Is due
almost wholly to the practice nf railroads
overloading trains so that they cannot
make their mileage within their time,
limits. Tlie pay of train service employes,
other than passenger, Is based on Jim
miles 01 less, ten hours or less. In th
eastern territory tlie biakeman will re
ceive the munificent s'im or J.'.CT for
legular freight service, out of which he
mii't maintain his fam'ly at home and
take care of hlmef at Hie, other end
of the run. The lOO-mlle hip is what rep-
resents one day s woik and means that
at Its expiration the man must lay away
from home until he is dead headed back
or returned puck wnn a train. Th
conductors tecive approximately one.
third more than the brakemen. Wages
ale a hille higher III the hcititbein and
western territories."
FLOOD TAKKS POSTOFFIC I;.
Memphis, Tciin,, Feb. n.-Vhlte River
Ark. u small town near the mouth of
W'hltn river. Is minus n postolfire on ac
count of the high waters,
"My posloffleo Is now Moating down
the liver, and unless It lodges against
some trees, It will be a total Inss," said an
appeal from the postmistress received
to-day at the local office of H,,. lallway
mall service.
The postofflce was situated mi a raft,
which Sunday night tore fiom hH f,,sten.
lug. dumping the mail nnd the pNi.
mistress Into the Mater Then it was
established "n a barge, and again thtj
wind demolished It-
day,
to So cents. - .l ss Kslber 1 rosl. wno
has been vi-ltlng at the home of her
patents. Mr. and Mrs. K. A. Frost for a
few d.ivs. has letuiueri to llartland.
where she Is a teacher In the high s.'hoo!
Mrs. Peter Duaiiid, who has been with
her parents heie. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W.
Calhoun, for two weeks, has returned to
Newark, N. ,1 .lames Pumas, who has
been quite 111 for a week, has so far re
covered as to be able to be about again
for a little each day. -Mis. Chat Ies Seeley
and Harold Seeley are visiting in Proctor.
Miss Bessie Pratt, who has been at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. W. II. Stokes
on South street for four weeks, has re-
turned to Burlington. Mrs. Kdwin N
Holmes was taken suddenly 111 while at
chur "h Sunday and removed to her home
on South Pleasant, stieet -Geoigc Cham-1
pagric. who lias been ill for the past ten
clays, is slowi.v 1 eeoverlng. The basement
of the Methodist Chtiich was opened
Monday evening as a social loom for
young people. Tables uf games and
magazines were supplied, and there was
a good attendance. This will continue
weekly on M unlay evenings from seven
to !:!" o'clock. Suitable chaperones weie
In attendance Light i efrcwhinents were
sei ved.
Royal 1011 Stevens of Cornwall, who bad
been 111 for some time nt his home in
Cornwall, died Tuesday morning at tin1
ago of ii" years, II months and H days,
with a complication of diseases. He I
survived by a wife, two chlldien. Mrs.
William W. Williams of Whiting and
Arthur N Stevens of Cornwall; a biotlier,
L. i;. Stevens of Ludlow; and two sis
graduate course at the Teachers' Collese
uf Columbia University. Mrs. L. '
Brown has gone to Boston for a several
weeks' visit to her sisters. Prof. Kdwln
II. holmes entertained his class of the
Sunday ,-chool of the Memorial Baptist
Chinch in the church pallors Tuesdav
evening at six o'clo.i;. Supper was
served, after which genics and other
amusements weie enjoyed. Daiius Cobb,
tho well-known artist, will deliver a lec
ture this evening In th" Congregational
Church and exhibit his painting, "The
Master," on which he worked '.'i years
The Methodist and Congregational
I Churches will unite in this service The
annual meeting of tlie Ladies' Library
' association will be held this afternoon
1 nt two o'clock at the library llenrv V.
i Joe, who has been contlned the past
week, has so far recovered as to lie able
I to be at bis place of business again
The f uncial of Royal F.ll Steven" will
be hell at his late home in Cornwall at
one o'clock this afternoon, the Rev. 11.
P.. Rvder of West Salisbury will officiato
and biiilal will be in the family lot In the
West Salisbury cemetery. M-s. S. B.
Giant, wlio has been visiting her sister.
I Mrs. Fiank Uil'.in, for i few weeks, has
! leturiied to Bristol. Robert T. Mcuse.
'. who. has been spending the week with
I his family in Rutland, has returned and
icsnined his employment on the work on
! the new college buildings
VERGENNES.
Washington, Feb. 0. With President
Wilson personally urging both democratic
and republican members of tho House
military committee to hasten preparations
of bills to carry out tho army's part In
the national preparedness scheme, indica
tions to-night were that tho measures
might he ready for the House within two
weeks or los.i.
Hearings will come to i close to-morrow
or next day and It Is understood the
main le.itures of the bills already have
been whipped Into the shape In which
It is expected they will lecelve virtually
tho unanimous approval of the commlttoe.
The Senate committee already has con
cluded Its hearings on army hills and will
take ui the work of drafting Its pioposals
for the Senate eaiiv next week. There
also the general outline of tho plan to
be re 'Oinmended lias crystallized lu the
minds of the members.
The bills of the two houses It Is ex
pected will differ radically and the final
legislation will be worked out as a com
promise in conference.
Piogress also was made to-day on navy
legislation, the measures paving the way
for construction of battleships 13 and -55
at navy yards and providing for HOO addi
tional midshipmen in the July class at
Annapolis having been passed by tho Sen
ate. They passed the House yesterday
and lack only the Presidents signature
to become law. Speaker Clark In line with
his lecent speech In tho House advocat
ing that the personnel at both Annapolis
and West Point be doubled, introduced a
bill to-day to make such an Increase In
the number of cadets at the military
academy.
Chairman Hay of the House military
committee and several of his democratic
colleagues discussed army plans with
President Wilson during the dsv at the
President's suggestion. To-morrow Rep
rcsr nrativc Kahn, ranking republican
member, and other of the minority wilt
go to the White House on the same
errand. It Is understood the President
wa pleased with the report on progress
Chairman Hay was able to give him
It was evident, however, in latei pro
t.edlngs of the committee that Repre
sentative Hay has not been swayed from
his opposition to Secretary Garrison's
proposal for a continental rnmy, which
tlie President warmly advocated dot ins
his recent preparedness campaign trip
to tlie Middle West. A witness before the
committee said he was opposed to the
continental plan.
So am f." Interjected Mr. Hay ' We
all are."
fho feature of the; house bill, ii was
said, would be federalization of the mili
tia through a pay bill carrying limi
tations designed to give the war de
partment peace time control of training
and officering of the National Guard
Coupled with the pay feature of 'h
bill probably will be Chairman Hay's
plan to authorize the President to diaft
national guardsmen Into the federal serv
ice Immediately in time of war.
For the regular army the bill prob
ably will provide the iaivm additional
men asked for by Secretary Garrison
although the commltten is said to be
abont equally divided on the Hnv ami
Gani'on plans for making the increase
Representative Hay proposes to 1)1' ex
istlng regiments up to full wat stienth
and Increase only the number of artil
lery regiments; while Secretary Garrl.-on
has asked for additional skeleton regi
ments of Infantry and artillery to make
up the tactical divisions
Mrs. Sarali F.llzabetli Flagg. widow ol
11. L. Flagg, a veteran of the Civil War,
.lie, I iiiuisilnv morning at her home In
... Mvs Annelt Row., of California and t Ills Place after a lingering Illness irom a
Mrs, Cora Hough of Boston; a half- general breaking up of the system, in the
i .i !..... ,,,, im,ii-.,,,i. m.i Tilth veiir of her ace. Mrs. Flagg was
llMlllH'll Kill' 11 u ir , u ,.,,..,- -
a.... i.nii.aiu,r i. k. ! w.ilte of bom lii Lewis, N. Y., and inovcd here In
Whiting. Mis. John Bobbins of Rlptnn. IMS. She was a nietnhcr of St. Paul'.'
of Itutland. Miss church, the Is survived uy iwo sons
IT. S. NAVY HAS WORLDS
MOST EFFECTIVE TORPEDO
Mrs. George Heath
Killth Stevens of Rutland and Mrs.
Kdgar Ainsden of 1'lotnla. The funeral
will be held at his lato homo In Cornwall
this afternoon at one n clock. Ihe
itM v. it. rtvdcr of W Ml Salisbury will
olfciate and the interment will be in the mother, Mrs. Day -Alfred Blair of hild-
family lot in the West Salisbury cemc- pent spent Minna) wnn 'tis nioiiiei, .irs.
lory. Mr. Stflvcns was a well known rest-, Marin Hlalr.-The "Div America" tally
dent of Cornwall and n prominent inrmer.iai rue opei.i nuu-i . ..ni..
-Harry Varsati has returned from New, a fair altenuance despite tne ract in.u
Yolk city News was lecclvcd Tuesday I quite a laige number ot people aro siif
of the death in Rutland of William R.I ferlng from the effects of grip. The Rev,
Casey, a former long-time lesldcut of! Rieiiard G Wnodbi hlgc inhodiiced tho
Mlddb'bury and a valued employe of the speakers, the Rev. Di. Madison Svvndener
I i,irhln eonuianv. Mr. Casey died ' of Indiana and e-iov. Malcolm R. Pat-
William II. Flagg or ergennes ami
Frank li.icg ot Itutland
Mr. and Mrs. Ft eel II. Andrus
and chlldien have ben called to Col
chester by tlie Illness of Mrs. Andrus'
New Yoik, Feb. !) -The Chitod State
navy lias the most effective torpedo In t'li
world, il was announced after a meeting
of the naval consulting board behind
closed doors at Ihe navy yard hero to-dev
An aeroplane engine said to represent ihe
last woid in engine construction and a
tesearch laboratory to surpass ,inth ng
of Its kind hitherto erected. ar soon lo
become icalltles It also was announced
NEVER HEARD OF GERMAN
PLOT ABOUT BOSTON
after it week's illness with pneumonia.
e was ."" .veins ot age and was married j
ill Mlddleburv to Miss Satah K. Illssett
js yeais ago. There aro two children of
the marriage, Miss Grace Casey and
MirciiH Casey. The finvial services will
iio held at St. Peter's Church, Rutland,
at nine o'clock Thursday forenoon and
tlie builal will be In the Rutland Main
aliert cemetery. Mrs, lennle M. Crosby
and daughter, Mi's Marion Crosby, ate
both icuillnecl lo tlK'lt home with the
glip.-MIss Minnie M Rill dolt of Pitts
find is visiting In town and before her
leturn home will visit fiinuds lu Rui
llngton and Swnnlon -Col Charles K,
Yoiitt commander of thn William P
Russell 1'ost, No, 83, G A. R., has been
teisou of Tennessee. The audience con
tributed catdi and pledges to carry on
thn campaign. Music- was furnished by
the State Industrial s-hool band. .Miss
Anna Fisher of Middlebury College spent
the week-end with her parents, Mr. and
Mrs, Henry P Fisher. -The card party
given Friday evening at Foi esters' hall
by the married men of St. Peter's parish
for the benefit of St. Peter's Church was
successful and the net receipts were
JI.IIM. Mis. John .Vlarcjlte and daughter
of Los Angeles, Cnl., who have beep
visiting their cousin, Mrs. Jublo Daniels,
biive gone to Chailotte to visit Mrs. Louis
Dcsautels -Mis. David K. Ryan Is ill
(Cmitlnnril ou usee (no)
Washington, Feb. P. George W Andcr
son, Cnlted States district nttoinev at
Boston, said here to-night that he never
had heard of a German plot to use Boston
as a base fiom which to dlie t loitile
activities in Canada, lie declared he had
come to Washington solely for the purpose!
of attending Ihe Sennte committee hearlni'
on the nomination of lniis D. Brandeis
for the Supreme Court.
Grand Matron Dead.
Biadford, Pa., Feb, i. MlT. Ilatu V
Mills, agee7, grand matron of the Genera'
Grand Chapter of Kastern Stai die 1
suddenly at her home hero to-dav She
rccenlly returned from a trip to Hi
Hawaiian islands, whern it Is believ d she
contracted a fever which with compile
tlons lesulled In her death, Mrs Mil
was grand secretary of the Kastern Stai
of Pennsylvania 15 jeun.
