f>c per copy, $1 00 per year.
University Extension Course
Is Very Much Appreciated
SECOND LECTURE OF
SERIES MUCH ENJOYED
Prof. Trevor Kineaid Talks Entertain
ingly on the Artt of Pre
historic Man
The second lecture in the scries giv
en under auspices of the Social Scl
•Ma Study Club was well attended
last Sunday evening despite the un
usually bad weather. The attendance
was especially good considering the
fact that not only were the sidewalks
blocked with snow, but It was only
definitely known who the lecturer
would be after The Northwest Work
er had gone to press, so it could not
be announced to our readers that the
eminent biologist. Prof. Trevor Kin
caid, of the state university, would
give an illustrated lecture on the in
dustries of prehistoric man.
Prof. Kincaid took for his theme,
as announced in the daily papers,
"Economic Evolution," which was
somewhat misleading, perhaps. This
fact did not escape the notice of the
lecturer himself, as he jokingly ad
mitted that he had no intention of
"bringing coal to Newcastle," his sub
ject dealing exclusively with the arts
and industries of man in the stone,
copper and bronze ages, and the very
early portion of the iron age. He did
not touch upon economic evolution in
historic times, discussing the subject
from the standpoint of the archeolo-
LECTURES HELD
DURING NEXT WEEK
LOCKWOOD LECTURE DATES
Sat. Feb. 12, Coulee City; Sun. 13.
Wilbur; Mon. 14, Sand Flat; Tues. 15,
Reardon: Wed. 16, Medical Lake;
Thurs. 17, Cheney.
Idaho Dates.—Fri. Feb. 18, Mullan;
Sat. 19, Hayden; Sun. 20 (2 p.m.),
Coeur d'Alene.
HERMAN LECTURE DATES
Idaho Dates. —Sat. Feb. 12, Lewis
ton; Sun. 13 (2 p.m.), Pullman; Sun.
13 (8 p.m.), Moscow.
Washington Dates.—Mon. Feb. 14,
Uniontown; Tues. 15, Colfax; Wed.
16, Steptoe; Thur. 17, Garfield; Fri.
18, Tekoa; Sat. 19, Thornton; Sun.
20, Oakesdale.
LECTURER RIDES ENGINE
During the recent record-breaking
snows on Puget Sound, a train carry
ing Mrs. G. H. Lockwood, the Social
ist lecturer now touring this state,
was stalled in the snow drifts many
miles from Everson where she was
billed to speak. The engine was un
coupled from the train, Mrs. Lock
wood got into the cab with the engi
neer and succeeded in bucking
through the snowdrifts in time to
please a waiting audience with her
lecture on "Socialism, the Hope of the
World."
Mrs. Loekwood is to Bpeak in Cou
lee City on Sat, Feb. 12, and in Wil
bur on Sunday. The Socialists in
charge of her tour say that it will
take more than fire, flood or snow
to make her disappoint an audience.
Mrs. Ixjckwood's tour covers one
hundred cities in Washington in one
hundred days. So far she has not
missed a date, thanks to an obliging
•engineer.
We are in favor of Pan-American
unity. Also like to see a little more
unity in congress on United-States
Americanism. — New York Evening
Telegram.
AN INTERESTING LECTURE
Professor TCdward McMahon of the University of Washington,
Department of History, will give an interesting talk in. The Forum,
Sunday evening, February 13th
These lectures are held under the auspices of the Everett Social
Science Study Club and are proving a success.
Professor Kineaid'a lecture on "The Evolution of Industry," held
last Sunday ev-enlng, proved very interesting.
You cannot afford to miss these lectures. Be sure to attend next
Sunday's lecture and bring along a friend.
NORTHWEST WORKER
),i:-t. not of the political economist.
Prof. Kineaid showed ftbOttt one
hundred Interesting slides, beglnnlßti
With fossil remains of prehistoric in tin
together with their tools of produc
tion. He showed the crude, chipprd
stone tools of the earliest stone age.
the so-called paleolithic period of
man's history; then the later polished
;unl worked stone of the neolithic
period, during which the lake dwell
ers appear upon the world's stage.
Following this Interesting and in
structive exhibit, a number of views
of ancient Kgyptian and Assyrian life
were shown. |llluitraUng the archi
tecture and methods »>f agriculture ol
that period.
At the conclusion of the lecture a
number of questions, covering a wide
range of subject*, wore asked and
entertainingly answorod by the speak
er. There were nn touches of hu
mor throughout the discourse that
evoked much laughter.
Prof. Kincaid has agreed to come
to Everett soon and give his celebrat
ed lecture on "Ants." He is one of the
world's highest authorities on ento
mology as well as on biology, and the
privilege of hearing such a speaker is
one that doubtless will be taken ad
vantage of by many students.
Arrangements are under way to
have Prof. McMahon, of the depart
ment of history of the university, for
next Sunday evening. Admission to
this course of lectures is free.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
Kvery once in a while a Socialist
speaker gives a lecture in one of the
nearby towns. Most of you want to
hear the lecture but are not aware
of the date or place. If you would
get in the habit of reading over our
weekly lecture announcements you
would soon know when a speaker was
booked for a town new enough for
you to visit. Get the habit.
WE WANT THE NEWS
Send us in the news of your local
activities. If there is nothing doing
in your locality it is up to you to
start something. A little bunch of
two or three can stir up quite an in
terest. If you are short on ideas
write to the "Information Depart
ment" of The Northwest Worker and
get our advice.
THINK BEFORE YOU ACT
Several referendums from the state
and national office are before the
membership of the party these days
and some of them are so important
that they will require careful consid
eration. We advise you to think hard
before you act.
THE CAT IN THE BAG
"We are not godng to war just be
cause we make an increase in our
military equipment of from twenty
five to fifty per cent. We need an
army for its moral influence, if for
nothing else. In a nation of 100,000,
--000 there an; liable to be riots, mobs
and insurrections, which cannot be
regulated except by the presence of
an army."—Ex-President Win, 11. Taft
in World's Chronicle.
The man who wrote a book on
"How to Live One Hundred Years"
died recently at the age oi forty-six.-—
Marinette Eagle-Star.
The Central Powers apparently are
trying to solve, the Ualkan problem
by cancellation. —Boston Herald.
Hryan is for peace everywhere ex
cept in the Democratic party. —Phila-
delphia Press.
DEVOTED TO THE INDUSTRIAL, POLITICAL, AND EDUCATIONAL ADVANCEMENT OF THE WORKING-CLASS
THREE GREAT SPEAKERS TO START SOCIALIST 1916 CAMPAIGN
GEORGE R. KIRKPATRICK.
Here are the pictures of the three
great speakers who started the 191 C
Socialist campaign last October. They
will fill their Oregon, Washington and
Idaho dates in March and April. They
are well known among Socialists as
well as non-Socialists. They have
boon booked to appear in 170 cities,
not only to give lectures on Socialism,
(Continued From Last Week)
Friend and comrade, we set out de
termined to learn to understand each
other before we quit. How much of
this have we accomplished? Are "we
any nearer to an understanding now
than we were a few moments ago—
you and I, comrade, who have toiled
in field and forest; in mine and quar
ry; in the cities and out through the
country producing by the sweat of our
faces all that the world needs to make
it blossom like the rose? Let us hope
so. Somebody else has, somehow,
come into possession .of that which
you, by your labor, produced and uses
that product for his or her special
benefit. Did you get that? You did?
Well, believe it, too. Very well. Then
who is that somebody? Think! You
remember the automobile that came
puffing around the corner almost run
ning jou down and splashing mud and
sand all over you? You remember it
well and you recall also that it was a
fine car—beautiful to look at—work
ing admirably. And the people who
rode in it whom you saw through a
shower of mud and sand, they were
fine, too—well clothed, well fed, and,
to all appearances, perfectly well sat
isfied with themselves and the world.
This old world looked good to them —
fine and lovely!
Think of that fine car and those
fine people. As you do so you will, I
know, admit that you have, directly
or indirectly, helped to make, by your
own labor, practically all of the things
from which that beautiful machine Is
made and that keeps it moving—the
steel, the brass, the copper, the wood,
the paint, the gasoline. You have al
so helped make, by your labor, all the
fine and costly things that those tine
people are wearing; the nutritious and
delectable food that makes them look
so Well fed and satisfied; and the
beautiful houses they live in and call,
their own. Yes you have and you
have made also hundreds of other
things similar to those mentioned
above that other fine, satisfied people
use and wear. Yet have you ever in
your lifetime come into possession of
and benefitted by any of these fine
things that you helped to make? You
studied yourself a few moments ago.
Do so again. And when you are
through, remember once more that
fine car and those fine people. They
ride in the finest and most perfect
car that money can buy— by
labor—yet, whose labor? They wear
the finest clothes that money can buy
-—made by labor—yet, whose labor?
They eat only the choicest food money
can buy—produced and prepared by
labor—yet, whose labor? They live
in the most beautiful and magnificent
dwelling* that human ingenuity can
BTERBTT, WASHINGTON, TIIKHSDAV, FEB. 10, L 916.
but also to lend their services in the
campaign of preparedness now under
way to put the Socialist party organi
zation in good shape tor an energetic
presidential struggle this year. CJeo.
K. Kirkpatrick is. the author of "War
—What For?" the greatest book over
written in this country against mili
tarism. Kmil Seidel is the former
ARE YOU ONE?
By George P. Thompson, Oregon
contrive, planned and electer by labor
—yet, whose labor?
Think!
Did those sleek, wpU^fed, satisfied
people ever Ittbor in rtVift or forest; In
mine or factory; in the quarries, on
the streets of the cities or the roads
of the country? Did they ever, by the
sweat of their brows, help produce
any of those fine things that make
them happy and satisfied and that
makes this old world look so lovely
to them?
You say, No, never, never! They
are business men and society ladies.
They are leading citizens. They be
long to the ruling class.
All, ha! you hesitated there a little,
didn't you? What struck you any
way? Did something pierce that skull
of yours, just as it did mine a few
years ago? If so, Glory and Hallelu
jah! But let us pick up the. thread
again and carry it a little farther.
We agreed also that those sleek peo
ple never labored and yet they ride
in the best of cars, wear the finest
of clothes, eat the most delicious and
nutritious food and live in the best
dwellings that labor can produce. In
short, they enjoy the use of the best
of all the things produced by labor —■
yet they themselves never labor.
They belong to the rulnic; ciass. We
mentioned that expression a few mo
ments a#<i. Let us consider that ex
pression and, in .so d«ing, we shall,
for convenience sake, reconstruct it a
little and say thai they belong to the
class that rules. «Next, then, we must
ask: What does it. ruin? Neither an
individual nor a class composed of
individuals can rule without having
something to rule. Now what is that
something? There can be only one
answer. THEY RULIO PEOPLE.
Then, you say, there are two classes—
the class that rules and the class thai
is ruled. And, for a certainty, you are
right
Though comparatively few in num
ber, they, who collectively constitute
the ruling class, rule the world with
an iron hand this very day. At their
command, millions in every land on
the globe, labor through long days and
dreary nights ill field and forest, mine
and factory, in city and country, and
at their command these toiling mil
lions also hand over to that same
ruling class all that their labor pro
duces —some a meagre share, often
not enough for them to subsist upon.
These untold riches —worthy products
of human endeavor —are wantonly
squandered by that heedless, useless:
master class in endleaa, senseless
rounds of pleasure or in boundless
hells of revelry and debauchery while
the countless thousands of those who
toll and perform all tit* useful tasks
THE
RYAN WALKER.
EMIL SEIDEL.
Socialist mayor of Milwaukee, Wis.,
and the Socialist vice-presidential can
didate in 1!»12. Kyan Walker, the
creator of Henry Dubb, is one of the
best known cartoonists of the coun
try. His lecture on "The New Ad
ventures of Henry Dubb" is an eye
opened to Socialists and non-Social
ists alike.
of life, He prostrate and begging at
their feet.
In view of these facts —for facts
they are—do you think it fair to say
that they who belong to the class
that rules are robbers in the full un
modified sense of that word? If so,
what else could you call those toiling
millions whom they rule and rob but
their victims. There is no avenue
of escape from this logic. Now think,
how is robbery usually performed?
What means do those following that
occupation almost invariably resort to
in order to make their demands effec
tive or to protect themselves and their
spoils should the victims show any
indications of resistance? You very
frankly admit that you are well ac
quainted with those means and meth
ods. Very well, then, do you think
it probable and reasonable that these
toiling millions, who are constantly
being skinned and fleeced, will finally
grow tired of this infamous skinning
and fleecing and decide to end it all
by deposing, by force if need be, that
useless and parasitic ruling class that
so senselessly squanders the products
of their toil and so prevent them from
reaping the benefit of the wealth they,
by their own labor, produce?
THEY ARE ROBBERS!
If, after earnest reflection, you come
to the conclusion that there is a pos
sibility of such resistance on the part
of the toiling millions —or the robbed
and fleeced part of the human race —
what do you think that the ruling
class, who benefit by that robbing
and fleecing, would be most apt to
do? Think! They are robbers—in
the full, unmodified sense of that
word. As such would they not most
likely resort to robbers' means and
methods?
Resort to robbers' means and meth
ods!
it behooves you, my nungry, rag-
Red, homeless, hopeless, friendless,
comrade io think and study until you
thoroughly understand what those few
! words really mean. Robbers' means
and methods sharp, glistening steel
and screaming shells, and sputtering
guns, It takes men —human beings—
to wield belching guns and sputtering
rifles, to jam lead and steel and pow
der into roaring cannon. They who
constitute the ruling and robbing class
and squander what toiling millions
have produced; they who neither toil
nor spin, yet live in luxury and ease
—for them you have toiled and gone
ragged; for them you have hungered
nd froze; for their sake you become
I friendless, homeless and hopeless and,
i at last, have become an outcast among
i men. Will you fight for them —they
i who have hated you—hooted you—
i (Continued on page 2)
Our School Campaign
J. C. McKee
In former years on the approach of
the annual school election, I have
made use of these columns to prove
to the working class that the capture
and control of the schools by the
workers would prove a powerful weap
on for their emancipation.
The truth of this assertion is appar
ent, if from no other reason, that the
capitalist class grudgingly yields up
every inch of ground to the onslaught
of the Socialists to get control of this
power. Mark Hanna used to say that
the public school was one of the two
great props of the capitalist system.
I guess you all know what he consid
ered the other one. The working
class wants power, industrially, po
litically and educationally. Socialist
school boards, to a certain degree,
give this power.
But how can this power be best
conserved and used when once se
cured?
To this very end was our Socialist
Teachers' Bureau established. Every
Socialist board should do business
and select teachers through this bu
reau. The name of the secretary Is
J. M. Salter and his address is Ever
ett, Wash. Any Socialist teacher who
is too much of a coward or too much
of a scab to join our union and pay
the small fee, which is barely enough
to pay the secretary for his time and
postage, does not deserve the support
of our organization. The secretary is
prepared to protect true Socialist
teachers from the persecution of capi
talist school boards, and in turn ia
Are You A Socialist?
Then Prove It!
By Emil Hermari
Perhaps there Is not a Socialist any
where but who realizes that we have
a tremendous amount of educational
work to do before labor can come in
to its own. Nor will he deny that to
educate successfully we need an effi
cient and militant Socialist party or
ganization. Yet many Socialists con
tent themselves with merely voting
the ticket and by that act pretend that
they have done and are doing their
full duty.
We are, of course, conscious of the
fact that many of those who vote the
Socialist party ticket do so merely
out of protest against a condition
from which they suffer but do not
understand. Such would not yet make
desirable members of our party, but
they are susceptible to our philosophy.
Aside from these there are many
thousands of well-informed Socialists
in the United States who do not be
long to the party, and for several dif
ferent reasons. Some are mental
cowards, they are afraid it will hurt
their business or make it difficult for
them to get or hold a job. These
need to stimulate their courage, oth
erwise they will remain worse than
useless in the social revolution. Be
sides, Socialists with self-respect and
courage enough to express their con
victions find it no harder to make a
living than those who hive not. Some
claim they cannot afford to pay dues.
In some instances this is a plausible
objection—except that such could use
the exempt stamp. In entirely too
many instances those giving this ex
cuse need merely to sit down to a
few less card games, attend a few
less picture shows, play a little less
of pool or billiards, curtail their con
sumption of candy, chewing gum and
tobacco- —quit indulging their appetites
in any of the excesses which do them
actual harm.
One occasion comes to mind where
I asked a Socialist to pay up his back
dues —amounting to $2.00. He in
formed me that he could not afford
to do so. About an hour later I had
ALL READY FOR CELEBRATION
Almost everything is ready for the Birthday Celebration of The
Northwest Worker.
The Socialist orchestra is hard at work practicing; women com
rades are hard at work with their needles; the young folks are ready
with their recitations and songs.
Gifts from all quarters are coming in, but don't let this stop you
from sending in yours.
Get your friends interested in the event which takes place Sun
day, February 20th, in T&e Forum, at 8 p.m.
No. 266
[prepared to protect Socialist school
boards from imposition by incompe
tent or traitorous Socialist, teachers.
A Socialist teacher may be incompe
tent, lack executive ability, and should
be placed, if at all, with great care
with Socialist boards. It is difficult
to retain the Socialist power in a dis
trict and overcome such an incumber
ance. Our secretary is also prepared
to protect Socialist school boards from
hping imposed upon by traitorous So
cialist teachers. Very often young
teachers who have trouble to secure
their first school think they see a way
here to play a little game and to a
Socialist board they will pose as a
Socialist, often even going so far as
joining a local. This is a very com
mon trick. Some of them know noth
ing more about economics or the la
bor movement than a Hottentot. I
helped place such a one at Rosedale.
She refused to even attend one local
and practically trained with the oppo
sition. Last spring a young man in
this county offered to join the local
if the Socialist board would retain
him as principal. Even the noted Lan
caster with whom Sinclalre and I had
so much fun over at Arlington on be
ing told that a Socialist board had
been elected ran breathlessly to the
new members in a rather jocular vein,
"Me too Socialist, me too Socialist."
So you see there is a reason for main
taining a Socialist teachers' bureau in
this state with a trained Socialist and
teacher at its head.
Birmingham, Wash.
had occasion to enter a pool hall. I
found him at a card table. I looked
on for forty minutes. In that time he
had lost one dollar. Our contention ia
that it would have developed more
self-respect and made a better Social
ist of him to have spent that money
to keep himself in good standing in
the Sooialist party.
Others contend that they have
worked so long and so hard that they
have become discouraged and have
made up their minds to wait until the
rest of the working class show some
interest in their own affairs. To these
we say that if Socialism is worth
having it is worth working for and
fighting for. Besides if those of us
who are organized also laid down on
the job and quit, how would you who
are unorganized and asleep like it?
Well, the triumph of the Socialist
movement will bring no more to us
than it will to you and it is no more
up to us to carry on the work without
your assistance than it would be for
us to lay down the burden and ex
pect you to pick it up and struggle
along without our help.
I can accomplish practically nothinK
alone. Neither can you. I need your*
help and you heed mine. So let us
get together in the Socialist party. I
am already there. I am organized.
So it's up to you, and don't forget
that every excuse you can present for
not being a member I and the other
members of the Socialist party could
also avail ourselves of. So come
along, get inside, add your strength
to ours. It will cost you 25c per
month. If there is a local of the So
cialist party in your neighborhood,
JOIN IT; if not, fill out an application
card, send it into state headquarters
and become a member at large.
Don't be a quitter. Prove your So
cialism by carrying a red card, paid
up to date—and DO IT NOW!
Twenty-three languages were spok
en in East Youngstown. Then it hap
pened.— Toledo Blade.
