... .('•'i'S
7"~
!'fi 11
:l
4^
nfes«,w-.
It
S«*
S3K&SMSB
r-sssspw^
VOL. 2, NO. 6.
far
mm
mmM
igwpwmua
4. fJ- -5f ^Kt •=.•***.,
•*-.
«H \c
J*
X'he
Its Indorsement for Public Office.
The Following Letter Is Self-Explanatory:
Mr. Anthony Walton,
Minot, N. D.
FrieiidL Walton:-
1811
Esto'::
.the
O/ft'cmZ Paper of the Farmers' Nonpartisan Political League of North Dakota
FARGO, NORTH DAKOTA, THURS DAY FEBRUARY 10, 1916.
3*
I would like to have a delegation from Ward County down to
boost for me as there is no candidate from Ward County, and I
presume you would just as soon favor one from Mountrail County.
I am very anxious to secure the indorsement of the league
and in order to get it, I will need some good boosters from this
part of the State at the Convention.
1^ I wish you would drop me a line and let me know what you
are willing to do. With kindest regards, I am
tter
011 80 might aWe to sie,ld
E'iff.ffifl,tfftij!'
.X,
Just What the Leader Predicted and What%^ias Time After Time Warned
the Members of the League Against, Has yened~the Politicians Are
Already at the Work of Attempting to Corrupt the League and Secure
On the 22nd of February the League is going to hold a
local convention to elect delegates to the County Convention.
I wish you would try and get on the delegation to the County Con
vention and also to the State Convention which will be held later.
Yours very truly,
Leader has carefully refrained from publishing anything that might prejudice the minds of these
delegates either for or against any candidate. We have confidence in the judgment of the delegates the League
memberawiU select to make their indorsements. We will abide by their judgment.
THIS ^RGAMZAT^fEMPHATICALLY
RESENT THE
f'".•'
Plaza, N. Dak. Office/ Feb. lst£ 19:j V*
GEORGE J. SMITH.
?™lth' eveFy member of this organization knows, is a candidate for the republican nomination
.r LEAGUE, which means that he is very anxious to be elected governor, for he and every of
fice seeker in the state knows that the man who is chosen by the League will be the next governor.
th* fifnifc delegates from every part of the state will gather in the near future to investigate
different candidates for all state offices and to indorse men who in the judgment of these
delegates will most surely carry out'the program of the League.
... |fe members of this League, the farmers of this state, have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to
candidat1^.01^11123^
These League members have spent their money AND THEY WANT THEIR DELEGATES IN PONVF.IST
TION TO REPRESENT THEM AND NOT ANY SELF-SEEKING POLITICIAN CONVEN-
PA"nte^ *bo¥e, he is "VERY ANXIOUS TO SECURE THE INDORSE-
EFF°RTS
Great sums of money have been spent by the farmers that these delegates may represent the members of
me- JLeague.
But George J. Smith of Plaza would have the farmers delegates represent him. He is spending his time
and money from whatever source, TO CONTROL YOUR DELEGATES. He would have them pledged to in
dorse him. He would influence and control men pledged to serve you. This man ridicules your intelligence and
slanders your judgment. He is afraid your delegates may not be bright enough to recognize his superior fitness
to be your governor. By his conduct he disappoints his friends and proves himself a politician of the cheapest
„i€He »s "very anxious to secure the indorsement of the League." He may be altogether too "anxious"
Beware of the jpolitiaan--the man who too anxiously seeks office for himself. Let us hope the day has
come for once when the office shall seek the man.
to Get
representative delegates to gather information about
OF ANY POLITICIAN TO CORRUPT
&
WHOLE NO. 21
bt/SSbft
jB*
if
•i
I
S
:1'
SiS
