Stiit Historical Society
Taney County Republican
Vol.
N. 13.
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, TUUKSDAY, KKIIUUAUY 10, 1916.
Four Pages.
Washington Letter
Washington, Feb., 9. The ultimate
purpose which President Wilson ex
pects or at any rate, hopes to achieve
by nis speech. making tours is his own
re election. He realizes that when he
is once renominated the proprieties of
the presidency will not prrmtt him to
go out on the stump as a candidate
for office. But' now months before
the national convention meets, he is
bound by no such restriction; and he
is thought here to have been very glad
to make use of the opportunity to do a
little campaigning under the guise of
presenting his newfound policy of
national defence of the people.
The value of his efforts to this end
cannot be estimated just now -but
the fact that he has awakened little
that can be called enthusiasm is re
garded as sfgnificant.
The immediate purpose which the
President had in mind before starting
out with his little bag of speeches was
to procure a reaction of pressure upon
the Democrats in Congress who are
opposing his programme of prepared
ness. The President's prestige is at
stake in this matter. He has execu
ted a sudden flop, as Congressman
Moore calls it, on this question; but
his party associates in the House are
not as nimble as he is, arid they are
still standing where the paesident bade
them stand in his message of a year
ago. In this they are actuated by
two beliefs. They think that the Wil
son of a year ago is the real Wilson
and that they are doing him a real favor
in saving him from what they think is
a misguided political manoeuver. In
addition they think that they are repre
senting the sentiments of their constit
uents in opposing a policy which they
describe in rather loose terms as "mil
itarism". The President's idea is that if he
can stir up the folks "back home,"
they will communicate their feelings
to their representatives and produce a
shift of position on the part of the re
calcitrant Democrats who are now im
perilling the President's program from
a party point of view. No change ol
opinion of this sort has yet manifested
itself among the rebellious Democrats.
Perhaps it is a little early to look for
it but the fact remains that the only
activity thus far displayed has been
among Democratic pacifists, who have
been busy every minute perfecting
their organization and preparing to go
to the mat with the President in a
strangle hold for supremacy. The
same night that Mr. Wilson opened
his speaking campaign in New York,
Mr. Bailey of Pennsylvania announced
that more than twenty Democratic
Congressmen had signed a formal com
pact to stand together in opposition to
the President'r military bills and that
recruits were coming in almost every
hour.
This does not mean that there will
be no leuislatian lor defence at this
session. On the contrary such legis
lation is assured by Republican
votes. The speech of Minority Lader
Mnn made that clear.
Mr. Wilson's speeches have con
tained frequent references of scorn fcr
those who would make the question of
national defence a partisan matter, yet
his whole intent in taking his trip has
been to secure, Democratic support
for a plan which he, a Democratic
President, has formulated and p.hich
he wouid like to see adopted by Dem
ocratic votes alone It is a common
remark here that if the President is
sincerely desirous of legislation It
national defence, he will abandon el
forts to compel Democratic support for
it and will begin to co-operate in good
faith with the Republicans who are
willing and anxious to see the countrv
put in a state of adeq iat- prepared
ness.
Wilsonian Conceit
For concentrated quin'encf of
conceit it oull 'v tm "ssi ie to find
anything surpa,sio,t ih . r mar ol Presi
dent Wilson in his New York speech
before Rii'al RiH-s Assnri-
a-ion. in .
i- h . i
"Wc ilia.
.Ill lMi
time out, in terms of the world, and
must learn what it is that America has
set out to maintain as a standard bear
er for all those who leve liberty and
justice and the righteousness of politi
cal action."
"From this time out"! Heretofore
we have not thought in terms of ths
world. Hitherto we have not known
what it is that America has set out to
maintain. We have been drifting in
darkness without captains and without
compasses. "From this time out,"
however, we are to be guided by the
latest declaration of truth from that
man, who, of all men prominent in
American history, has been unrivaled
in changes of mind, vacillation of pur
pose, and uncertainty of action. "From
this time out," we are to be guided
by new ideals as to liberty and justice.
That is, we shall be S3 guided until
Mr. Wilson again changes his mind
and marks out for us a new path which
we must follow if we would truly know
what it is that America has set out to
maintain.
Poor deluded Washington, short
sighted Jefferson, misguided Monroe,
hapless Lincoln, thoughtless McKinley!
what a pity you lived before it was
possiole to "learn what it is that Amer
ica has set out to maintain as a stand
ard-bearer lor all those who love liber
ty and justice and the righteousness
ol political action"!
Our Own Autocracy
The further evidence of a prepos
terous censorship over Mexican news
supplied by The Tribune's correspon
dent, Mr. Watson, empasizes the folly
as well as the impropriety, of official
suppression of fact in this country.
The truth about Mexican conditions
will come out in spite of the adminis
tration's desire to disbelieve it or sup
press it. These conditions are not
what the government would like them
to be or would like the public to think
them to be. They are very bad, in
deed. Perhaps they are improving
rapidly. We hope so. But certainly
deceiving ourselves will not better
them.
The motive back of the official cen
sorship of news concerning Mexico
has been clear. The President did
not wish to deal with the public de
mind (or intervention which a realiz
ation of the horrors cf anarch; in Mex
ico would have created. Doubtless
this autocratic conception of his duty
is justified to his conscience on the
ground that Mexican conditions would
have been .sensationalized by the yel
low press and utilized by the property
interests seeking protection. If, how
ever, this is a justification for an Amer
ican president let us not pretend that
he is, in respect of foreign relations at
least, any more responsible to the na
tion than the German kaiser or the
Russian rzar or the Japanese mikado.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Wilson has
given us as extreme a specimen of
secret diplomacy and ol essential auto
cracy as can be exhibited by any gov
ernment iii Europe. Chicago Tribune.
We Americans seem to be in some
doubt as to what will happen alter the
war". British manufacturers are not.
They have bought twice as much raw
wool as last year. The quantity on
hand is far in excess of visible needs
and greater than could possibly be
used in making war supplies. The
fact is that British factories knew they
have a free trade market awaiting them
in America. In seven months after
the Democratic wool tariff became
effective. America increased her pur
chases of woolen goods hearly $21,000
000, or nearly 18,000,000 a month.
The British manufacturers feel that
they are safe in laying in a huge stock
of raw woo!, for they expect the Ameri
can people to retain the Democratic
President on the plea that "he kept us
out of war".
Mi:un closed 'he year 1915 with
a deficit ol 51.iUU.UUU. it had a
Democratic state administration
There t evidently harmony between
p ii national administrations
on Uwt wtiwics.
Judge Lamm Says He Will Not Be a
Bound Partisan.
Former Judge Henry Lamm of the
Missouri Supreme Court, in announc
ing why he became a candidate for
governor in an address before the Se
dalia Lamm Club, said: "The gover
nor of this state should know and love
the state and all its people, its history,
its multiform int.-rests, and tint he
should not be a hide bound or narrow
partisan, nor 'play politics' in office."
The announcement was in the form
of a letter setting lorth the jurist's rea
sons lor becoming a candidate at the
primary in August.
"The time came," he says, "when
such persistent appeals were made by
Iriends, by personal messages, letters,
petitions from clubs and wide spread
appeals from Republicans. Progressive
and Independent voters, that I con
sented to file on assurances I no longer
dared disregard.
"A governor of Missouri, it seems
to me, should be a man who believes
in work as the primest quality of man
hood and who would give his days and
nights to his task; for a mighty task it
is in the fix we are in. The citizen
who toils, the teacher, the farmer, the
banker, the citizens of property and
the poor man with none, the courts,
the laws, the schools, the charities,
the prisoners in bonds, the roads, the
corporations, the railroads, the cities,
the country, public decency, taxation,
expenditures, all and more- much
more should come within the sympa
thetic range ol his vision, for they
come within his functions is one or
another phase cf them.
"If I read the signs aright the majority
of the people cf Missouri profoundly
believe that the party in power in this
state needs to be taught at the polls (I
put it mildly) the sweet uses of hu
mility and adversity. It looks in Mis
souri as if our Democratic friends have
ridden fast and far toward a fall at the
next election. No one need mourn
over this fact, for it will do the party
good to be soundly beaten. It will do
Missouri good to go Republican.
But let us not deceive ourselves, it
will not go Republican unless we take
ourselves seriously. We must so con
duct ourselves that men may see we
have the welfare of the state at heart,
and that, with one accord, with might
and main, we are jetting ourselves to
the task of doing good to the state in
the most exacting sense. The task is
a great one, for state affairs are in a
bad way, and a majority of Missourians
have come to believe:
That we need a change.
That there has been a waste of
money, ana our taxes have Deen ex
travagantly frittered away.
"That there have been loose and
reckless appropriations, beyond our
ability to pay.
That public money was profligately
squandered on unnecessary expenses
of legislation.
"That the funds of our state, a state
jealous of its financial honor, have been
disarranged.
"That great deficiency bills are
coming and cannot be prevented by
any belated stroke of executive power.
"That the overhead cost of some of
our activties are out of all proportion
to results obtained
"That it was a pity, in order to make
ends meet, it was thought necessary to
take over $300,000 of the money be
longing to our school children and di
vert it to other purposes an attempt
contrary to usage and only prevented
by the strong hand of the law.
President Opposed in Own Party
Woodrow Wilson is just now listen
ing to language sharper than any he
has heard since the trustees of Prince
ton used to tell what they thought of
him. To obviate any erroneous con
clusion from this assertion it should be
added that the new Mrs. Wilson is no
relation to Mrs. Caudle and that the
President's curtain-lectures are being
delivered to him by members ol his
own partv.
Senator Newlands of Nevada has
taken occasion to make a soeech
which he has denounced, all and !v
eral, the pet financial policies of the
Wilson administration the tariff in
particular, while other Senators and
Congresmen have expressed, in no
flattering terms, their criticisms ol
Wilson's foreign policy, his Mexican
policy, his preparedness policy, etc.,
etc.
The fact is that Wiison no longer
controls Congress. Senators and Rep
resentatives on the Democratic side
are now playing, each of them, his owb
game which is to get re-elected
if possible. If Wilson is re-elected too,
so much to the good But no mem
ber of Congress, of any consequence
is subordinating- either his own opinions
or those of his constituents to the pres
idential intellect in order to strengthen
the President's position before the vot
ers. Whatever a Democrat at the
Capitol thinks will be helpful to his
own political prospects, that he does;
while the White House is left to skin
its ovfn skunks.
Taxation, preparedness and Mexico
are the chief vehicles for conveying
Congressional criticism to the execu
tive; and it is probably the last topic
which gives the President his largest
concern. The recent massacres o!
American mining men men, who, by
the wav, were invited into Mexico by
Gen. Obregon, Carranza's strongest
military leader has inflamed public
opinion here to point where "watchful
waiting" has become a term of lethal
loathing; and if the President does
net soon take action Congress will.
In this connection it must be noted
that the most embarrassing and irritat
ing of all the proposals thus far advan
ced in Congress is that put forward by
Senator Jim Ham Lewis of Illinois.
Jircham has been one ol the lair-haired
boys of Congress during this adminis
tration. At one time he thought he
ought to be Wilson's running mate in
the coming election; and, in his pobi
t:.n as majority "whip" in the Senate,
he was looked upon as one of the
most reliable and ready of those to
whom Tumulty has been wont to con
vey the executive's orders by telephone.
Now Lewis seems to be definitely
off the reservation. He has introduced
a resolution calling for intervention in
Mexico, where he wants our armed
forces to be employed "to the same
extent as now permitted in the navy
in Nicaragua and Hayti".
Whether the Senator's relerence to
Nicaragua and Hayti was intended to
be purposely irritating or not, may not
be said. But the fact is that the Pres
ident acied in both those cases cn
his own responsibility and the plain
implication is that the President acted
in both those cases on his own respon
sibility and the plain implication is
that he could have taken action in
Mexico if he had really wanted to
protect American interests there.
Just what he does want in Mexico
is the great enigma in Washington
just now.
Ordinarily by this time Congress
would have passed one or two appro
priation bills. In fact such is the
general record of a session even prior
to the Christmas recess. This year,
however, not a single bill has been
reported, to say nothing of passed.
However, the session is likely to last
until the autumn leaves are falling and
there is ample time for the Democrats
tn make another new record for reck
less expenditure of the public money.
Extravagance, be it remembered, is
the Dera cratic party's middle name.
Democratic newspapers allude to
the most recent muzzling of their
party's Senators who wish to end the
Mexican muddle as having given Wil
son a free nana . nas ne ever naa
11 . at .. t I
anything else? He has had his own
sweet way with Mexico in everything
that this government could possibly
do, and what has been the result?
When Wilson stys the Mexicans
must be permitted to shed all the
i the blood they want to, whose blood
in does he mean that of Mexicans or
I ....
- that of Americans?
John T. Moore For Circuit Judge
In this week's issue of the Republi
can appears the formal announcement
of Judge John T. Moore, of Ozark, as
a candidate for re-election to the place
he now holds.
Judge Moore is one of the old line
Republicans of this district and has
always stood for the best interest of the
party at any and all times, but more
important than this, in connection
with his candidacy for this place is the
fact that he has always conducted his
court in a fair, square manner, giving
justice, as nearly as human power can
give justice, to each and every one
alike. He has been on the bench
now about twelve years, and very few
of the decisions rendered by him in
the trial of cases in his court have ever
been changed by the higher courts.
That is a big thing. It denotes fair
ness, and a knowledge of the law, a
desire to do justice to all comers, and
an open mind that can decide a case
on its merits, unbiased by the predjudi
ces and feelings of the man. A judge on
the bench has to be somteing more than
a mere man. He must be able to see
through things in a clear manner or he
will surely go on the rocks in making
decisions in cases where oftentimes
large amounts of money, property,
and sometimes human life are at stake.
Judge Moore has conducted the af
fairs of his office in as satisfactory a
manner as it could be conducted by
anyone, and we have a feeling that the
voters of the thirty-first judicial circuit
are going to say on election day we
have a good man in that place and we
had better keen him there. That is
the wise thing to do. When you get
a good man in a place, a man who
conducts the affairs of his office in a
business like manner and is honest,
capable and fair in his dealings with
his fellow men, keep him there.
We do not know ol any dissatisfac
tion in this pait of the circuit with
Judge Moore's conduct of his office,
and we feel sure that he will receive
the nomination to which he aspires by
a handsome vote at the August primary.
Mr. Wilson.s "Liars"
President Wilson says that he se
cured his information about Mexico
from a lot of liars.
As we recall it, he was told about
Mexico by John Lind, William Bayard
Hale, Duvall West and the late Paul
Fuller all of whom were sent down
there as "personal representatives" of
of the President and all of whom made
reports to him which the public has
not yet been privileged to see.
Were all of these men liars? Or
will the president particularize and
name one or more of the quartette for
membership in the Ananias Club which
he seems bent upon organizing?
Mr. Fuller is dead and cannot de
fend himself against the insinuation
which Mr. Wilson's remark implies.
Lind, Hale and West are very much
alive and they probably are not "too
proud to fight".
That Flood Of Cheap Products
''At President Wilson's direction"
...... . . ,.,
so runs a Washington aispatcn tne
Department of Commerce and the Fed
eral Trade Commission have begun au
investigation to find means to prevent
flood ol cheap products from Europe
on the American market at the end of
the war." This is a gratifying pre
caution, but in the light of Mr. Wil
son's previous observations upon ;
much vexed subject it obtains some
elements of surprise. Only last week
the President wrote gloatingly that
nrevious to the war there had not
been the influx of foreign commodities
which was predicted by Republicans
as a result of application of Democra
tic low tariff rates. Why, then, is it
assumed that there will be a flood after
the war? Are we to deduce from
the toward looking step, that after all,
the Underwood bill is not essentially a
measure calculated to benefit workiug
men and manufacturers, but one that
operates to the advantage of Europe?
Again, it is planned to stay this
I a . . .
tlooa, mat can ne aone oniy ny nxmg
import duties which will be protective
The Gazette Times would be glad to
have this done, and believes, with the
Republican party, that it ought to be
done. But what, meanwhile, has be
borae of President Wilson's airy re
mark, when he was engaged in revising
the tariff downward, that it was up to
American manufacturers and their em
ployes to match their wits against the
world and achieve industrial success
without the adventiousaidof protective
duties? Have American wits deterior
ated since the'fall of 1913 or has the
President learned of things in the
economy of nations not dreamed of in
his philosophy two years ago?
It would be interesting to know also
whether this awakening at the White
House is due entirely to in appreci
ation of industrial necessities or is to
be ascribed to a keen perception of
the political exigencies of 1916. It
looks much like throwing a tub to the
whale, and therefore presents an amus
ing spectacle. Republicans, happily
can vsew it with equanimity. Every
little concession made to their prin
ciples, whether as to economics or
otherwise, simply goes that far to illus
trate the ineptitude of false position of
the Democratic outfit now in control
of national affairs. Pittsburg Gazette
Times. European War a Scapegoat
The European war makes a conven
ient scapegoat for the inefficiency of
the Democratic administration. In
particular it is a handy alibi for depart
mental heads who have failed to make
good from a business standpotnt. As
another has said:
"Postmaster General Burleson an
nouncing a deficit of 811,333,308.97,
follows the'exaraple of his chief and
the Democratic congress and charges
it up to the war. By the simple pro
cess of estimating that the war has
cost the service $21,000,000 Mr.
Burleson gives himself credit for a bal
ance of ten millions.
"The money isn't in Uncle Sam's
strong box, but no matter. He can
have the satisfaction of dreaming that
it woulp hrve been there if there had
been no fighting in Europe.
'When there is considered Demo
cratic strictures on Republican man
agement cf the postal service, Mr.
Burleson presents a sorry figure. More
than any other responsible administra
tion agent has he been given to criti
cism of what he found in his depart
ment when he took charge of it. Ever
since he has been in office the service
has been under treatment for imaginary
ills. Dr. Burleson has reorganized and
retrenched and reformed it to the limit
He has reduced the force, shifted men
changed schedules, discontinued
routes aud imposed impossible tasks.
And the net result is a woefully defici
ent service and a deficit of f 11,333,
308.97. 'It is customary for Democratic
officials to promise much, perform pro
digiously and wind up with nothing to
show for the noise and effort. Mr.
Burleson, however, has made a new
record in this respect. Racine Journal
News. Future Work For Mr. Wilson
There are 408 more days of Wood-
row Wilson as'President.
We suggest that Mr. Wilson, when
he leaves the White House, devote
his entire time to writing history.
The history of the United States
during the years 1913 1914, 1915 and
1916, in 100 volumes, should furnish
an agreeable field for the exercise of
his talents.
The claim to imortality of the hero
of this narrative would rest, we take it,
upon this proposition:
He found a country so sunken in
cowardice that it was resentful of the
murder of its women and children.
He left a people to proud to fight.
Mr. Wilson should issue a volume a
year. A hundred years is none too
long a time to devote to the elabor
ation of this proposition. New York
Evening Sun.
W. J. Bryan is raising lemons on his
Florida farm. And we cm tuess who
' will be handed a few cf tl em.
