THE BAKRE BAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. : 280.
I1AURE. VERMONT. TIIUHSDAV, FEIUtUAUV 10, 1910.
PJtlCK, OXK CKXT.
FRENCH TOOK
TRENCH SOUTH
OFTHESOMME
German Army Headquar
ters Admits Loss in That
Section but Asserts That
Thev Have Captured a
-,
Large Section of Trenches
Northwest of Vimy
THEY ALSO RETOOK
CRATER AT NEUVILLE
French Official Statement
Says MereJy That the Ar
tillery Duel with the Ger
mans in the Artois Dis
tract Is Continuincr Re
ports from Other Fields
WAGE SETTLEMENT
BY ARBITRATION
Is Called for by Chamber of Commerce of
the United States in Resolution
Adopted at Washington.
Washington, 1). C, Feb. 10. A reaulu
tion calling niton the ram-onus and thei
employes to settle their wage eontrover
Dies by arbitration was adopted to-day
by tha Chamber of Commerce of tli
United States, representing more than
7 ix) business men organizations through
out the country.
TI10RNE GIVEN THE LIE
Berlin, via London, Feb. 10. The cap
ture from the French of a large section of
trenches northwest of Vimy in the Ar
tois region was announced by the Ger
man army headquarters to-day. A mine
crater near Neuville of the same sector
was retaken. South of the Somme the
French gained a foothold in a small part
of one of the German first line trenches.
Paris, via London, Feb. 10. The ar
tillery duel between the French and Ger
.mans is continuing in the Artois district,
jaccording to the war office announcement
(this afternoon.
i
Siiriis that military operations of im-
'portanec may be impending in the Bal
kans are furnished by the Bulgarian
government organ at (Sofia which, in a
leading article, asserts the rights of Bul
' garia to invade Greece for an attack
on the French and the British there. It
declares 'that Bulgaria cannot permit
' these foes to remain near the borders
Sand that they must be driven out..
On both the eastern and western war
fronts activity during the past few days
lias been more marked than for some
time. Some movements of moment may
be developing at the northern end of the
Russian line, where artillery play is re
ported to be heavy and continuous, par
ticularly in the neighborhood of Dvink.
1 In the west the initiative at present is
with the Germans, who are hammering
cm the Frertch lines from tune to time,
and making occasional gains, notably
near Neuville not far below the Belgian-
border and south of the river .Somme.
The bombardment of Smyrna on the
Asia Minor coast by a squadron of
French aeroplanes is reported from
Athens.
By James W. Cau.nt, Who Testified in
Brandrtis Hearing.
Washington, 1). C, Feb. HI. James W,
Carnm It, chief ciin'iiiir of the interstate
commerce commission, beloro the Senate
sub-committee which is investigating tho
nomination of Lou 1). I'mmUis to the
supreme court uevb. io d.:y challenged
the declaration of Cliiford ihornc that
Brumieis ctmccit!eL from him the atti
tilde, he would like in arguing the east
em freight rate cash before tne coinmi
sion.
Vesteiduv Thorn' who was associated
with- J.'iandeis in til 'lute CJe, declared
he wai dumbfo uiuod when Brandcis n
his opening arg'iii'mic conceded the con
tention of railnm Is t 'nt the existing
rate returns wen in idcijUiif u.
Cermalt .uecUivd hn had a conversa
tion with Thome and t'mt he was con
fident that Thorne told what the position
of Brandeis would be. He said Brandcis
made no effort to conceal it from Thornc.
EAST ORANGE.
AIR ATTACK IN DAYLIGHT.
German Bombs Injured Two Women and
One Child on Kentish Coast. -
London, Feb. 10. Two women and one
child were injured yesterday afternoon
when two German seaplanes raided the
Kentish coast, dropping bombs. Three
missiles fell on the outskirts of Rams
gatejid four near a school at Broad
ht air's The material damage is said by
the. war office to have been confined to
tli shattering of glass.
The attack was made in broad day
light. At 3:30 o'clock yesterday after
noon two Beaplancs were reported ap
proaching the Ken coast and a few min
utes later they flew over Ranisgate and
Broadstairs.
A number of naval and military aero
planes and seaplanes ascended to at
tack the Germans, but they immediate
ly retreated. As no engagement between
the airmen has been reported, it is pre
sumed that the Germans made good their
escape.
Of the four bombs dropped in Broad
stairs all fell near a schoolhouse. Three
of them exploded.
Mrs. Ellis Bohonon and Mrs. diaries
Hull of Washington were at G. If, Bo
lionoi.'b recently.
Airs. John Clark, who has been visiting
her sister, Mrs. J. A. Dashner, has re
turned to her home in West Topshani.
Abe Jacobs of Corinth and G. H. Bo
honon were in Bnrre and Montpf.lier
Wednesday on business.
O. A. Prescott was m Corinth Wednes
day and Thursday on town business.
Glen Hutchinson was in Websterv.lle
the last of the week.
W. T. Dickenson has bought out tiie
stage route from West lopsham to
Barre of David Bagley and made his
first trip Monday.
H. A. 1 rescott was in ebsterville
Monday.
Jerry Dashner and Harvey Pat ridge of
Barre were at J. A. Dashner's Monday.
Clarence Hutchinson was in Barre on
Monday, and his daughter, Miss Abbie,
returned home with him. She had been
stopping the past two weeks, since leav
ing the City hospital, at the home of
George Burroughs.
A. K. Prescott was a business vis
itor in West Topsham the first of the
week.
Mr. and Mrs. Corliss Trombly visited
at Joseph Bisson's in Orange Sunday,
.Some of those on the sick list are
improving and a good many new eases
are reported, among which are Mrs.
Emma Bowen, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Bow-
en, Mrs. George Bohonon, A. K. Beede
and F. A. Burroughs.
Archie Button was in Bradford recent
ly on business.
, Mrs. Addie Palmer on Monday evening
received the sad news of the death of her
brother, Lyman Moore.
John and Edgar Sanborn were Brad
ford visitors Tuesday.
Charles Simpson was in Barre Mon
day. '
Arthur Prescott was in Bradford on
Tuesday, returning home Wednesday.
W. M. Prescott was in Waits River
the last of the week to meet 'his sister,
Mrs. Belle Johnson, who returned from
her visit with relatives and friends in
Bradford and Fairlcc, .". '
NOT RUNNING
AFTER OLD JOB
But Vice-President Marshall
Would Surely Meet It
Half Way
CALLS OVER-ANXIETY
FATAL TO DIGNITY
Justice Hughes Calls Him
self Not in Political
Game
Portland, Oregon, Feb. 10. Vice Pres
lent Marshall is willing to run for a
second term but does not think that
man holding such an cilice should be
running around requesting Democrats to
ote for him, according to a letter made
public to-day by Postmaster Frank S.
Myers, received from Mark Thistlewaite,
Marshall's secretary.
The letter says tha vice president could
not bring himself to ask anyone' to file
petitions for him but if the petitions
re fibd he certainly will not repudiate
ha action. Mvers had written Vice
resident Marshall, asking him if he
Hn will l made, at Chicago, chairman
of the national committee in place of
Hillcs and will be in full charge of the
campaign until tha vote is counted in
the November election."
The reference in Allen's letter which
prompted Congressman Slcnip to commit
nicate with Justice Hughes was as fol
lows:
"They know, too, full well, that the
persona who assume to speak for tho
organization her are dead against either
Hughes or Roosevelt, and persons look
ing for recognition under the next ad
ministration would do well to put I
black mark through their names on an
endorsement.
Cabell Denies Truth of Story.
Richmond, Va., Feb. 10.F.oyal E. Ca
bell said last night that so far a be
knew there was not one word of truth in
the statement in the letter alleged to
have been written by is. iirown Allen
He declared that Frank H. Hitchcock had
just told him over the long distance tele
phone that the whole story was a fabri
cation.
"It is true," added Mr. Cabell, "that I,
in common with thousands of Republi
cans in Virginia, would like to see Jus
tice Hughes or a man of his type, nom
inated for president, but any fight that I
am making is entirely within the party
and will not be carried to the point of
endangering party harmony."
WILL NOT STOP EXECUTION.
Gor. Whitman Refuses' to Interfere Fur
ther in Schmidt Case.
would permit the us) of his
the Oregon primary ballot.
name on
ENTIRELY OUT
OF POLITICS,"
SAYS HUGHES
Supreme Court Justice Declares in a Pri-
ate Letter That He Is Totally Opposed
to Use of His Name in Connection
with Presidential Nomination.
Inherited.
Amos Whittaker, a miserly million
aire, was approached by a friend who
used his most persausive powers to have
him dress more in accordance with his
station in life.
' am surprised. Amos," said the
friend, "that you should allow yourself
to become shabby."
"But I'm not shabby," firmly inter
posed the millionaire miser.
Oh, but you are, returned his old
friend. "Remember your father. He was
always neatly, even elaborately dressed.
His clothes were always finely tailored
and of the best material.
"Why," shouted the mier, triumph
antly, "these clothes I've got on were
father's." Sketch.
BRITISH COMMAND CHANGES.
Gen. J. Smutz Replaces Gen. Smith-Dor-rien
in East Africa.
l.ondon, Feb. 10. Gen. Sir Horace
IOikwood Smith-Dorrien has relinquished j
i ne romiiinnu i me nmisn iorces op
erating in East Africa owing to ill health
it was officially announced lust night.
Gen. Janchristian Smutz. the minister
of the interior mines and defenses of
After the Ceremony.
"Come, cheer up. Jack, this isn't a fu
neral; it's time for you to go and kiss
the bride, now.
"That's where yon re wrong, Bill. It's
time for me to stop, now. W idow.
"I went joy riding last night."
"Did the trip have an unfortunate
ending "
"Verr. There wasn t any accident at
all and I was with people that I will
probably never have a chance to get
my name in the paper with again."
Puck.
the union of South Africa, has accepted 'you clean the fish?
the vacancy with the rank of temporary I Dinah Law. no
Waste Labor.
Lady of the House .Say, Dinah,
did
lieutenant
added.
general, the announcement
On Dc. 14, last. Gen. Smith-Dorrien.
who bad commanded the British second
missus! Why should
Ah clean dat fish? He done lib all bis
life in dc wattah. Puppet.
Delayed.
In the wee hours of the morn the su-
army in Flanders, was appointed to the burbanilc got off the train at the home
supreme command of the forces opera t-' station, tioing to the telegraph office
Washington, D. C, Feb. 10. Represen
tative C. Bnscom Slemp, chairman of the
Virginia Republican committee, has
made public a letter from Justice Hughe
declaring:
"I am totally opposed to the use of my
name in connection with the nomination
and to the selection or instruction of any
delegates in my interest, directly or in
directly.
Justice Hughes' letter, made public
with-his consent, was in replv to a let
ter from Mr. Slcmp which informed the
justice that frank H. Hitchcock, post
mastrr general under President Taft, had
inaugurated a movement in the South
favoring the justice for the Republican
presidential nomination.
Chairman Slemp s letter to Justice
Hughes in part and the reply of the jus
tice follows; ,
The Slemp Letter.
"Aloiit 10 days ago a movement start
ed in the state (Virginia) directed from
New York City by Frank H. Hitchcock,
former postmaster general, favoring you
as a Republican nominee. He ha se
cured around him in our state a few of
his old appointees, R. E. Cabell, former
commissioner of internal revenue, now
living at Richmond, Va.; B. A. Davis,
postmaster under Mr. Hichcock. at
Rocky Mount, and R. Urown Allen, for
mer postmaster at Staunton. Va.
"I enclose you a copy of a letter writ
ten by Col. S. Brown Allen to one of my
friends, who forwarded the time to me.
In this letter is explained a movement
by Mr. Hitchcock, and I have other let
ters of similar character. You will ob
serve it advocates an attack on me, as
state chairman, and the organization gen
erally, with the statement that Mr.
Hitchcock is to be chairman ot the na
tional committee and again postmaster
gpneral, therefore the dispenser of pat
ronage, and tliat thoe who endorse his
views and support ydu as presidential
candidate will receive commensurate con
sideration afterward.
"I am not willing that I should be
placed in the attitude of opposing you
ns a candidate for the presidency, and
that in the view of thousands of Repub
licans in our state; neither do I think it
i-s right for a fiplit to be inaugurated in
our state against me and others ujmn
tho supposition that we oppose you.
"I am writing you at the earliest mo-"
ment to acquaint vou of the" situation
that has so recently developed under
your name, and at the same time to as
sure you that there has been no hostility
exhibited toward you anywhere in ou
state, but on the contrary the greatest
admiration and friendship exist for you.
. ,,
ery respeciruiiy,
"C. Ba scorn Slemp.
"February 3, lOlfi."
The Hughes Letter.
Justice Hughes replied:
"My Dear Mr. Slemp:
Your letter of February 3 has been
received. I am entirely out of politics,
and I know nothing whatever of the
matters to which vou refer. I am to
tally opposed to the use of mv name in
connection with the nomination and to
the selection or instruction of anv dele
gates in my interest either directly or
remotely.
"Very sincerely vniirs.
"Charles E. Hughes."
The letter which Congressman Sh-t.ip
enclose! in his communication to Jus
tice Hughes which waa written to an un
named friend of the irgiman by S,
Albany, X. Y-, Feb. lO.Haui Schmidt,
the former New York priest, convicted
of murder in the first degree for the
death of Anna Aumuellcr in New York,
in September, 1913, must pay the penal
ty of. his crime in the electric chair in
Sing Sing prison during the week of
February 13. Gov. Whitman last night
declined to interfere with carrying out of
the sentence.
Schmidt waa convicted at bia second
trial and the court of appeals affirmed
the conviction, but called the attention
of the governor to the claim made by
the -man's attorneys that Miss Aumuel
lcr died from the effects of a criminal
operation and therefore Schmidt could
not lie tried on charge of manslaughter.
The executive granted Schmidt a respite
of 30 days in which he investigated the
condemned man's claim.
Gov. Whitman in his statement last
night said he reviewed the medical tes
timony at Schmidt's trial and also bad
had two physicians examine portions of
Miss Aumiiellers body that had been
preserved at Cornell Medical college. Both
reported that Schmidt's victim had not,
in their opinion, died from the effects of
criminal operation.
"This defendant," said the governor's
statement, "has been fairly tried. He
baa attempted and once nearly succeed
ed in foisting upon the court a story
which he himwlt" now admits Mas faloe.
He has demonstrated beyond question his
capacity and skill in shamming and fal
sifying, and all proof before me compels
me to believe ,thothi assertion now
as to the manner of tiie decedent s death
is utterly false."
REBELS SEIZE
CITYOFLUGHOW
As Culmination of Series of
Successful Engagements
SZE CHUEN PROVINCE
SIZZLES WITH REVOLT
There Has Been Almost Con
tinuous Fighting
for Weeks
Shanghai, China, Feb. 10. Lucliow In
the southern part of Sze Chuen province
at been captured by Yunnan revolution-
sts, according to word received here to
day.
San Francisco, Feb. 10. The govern
ment forces in Yunnan province, Chi
na, wre defeated by revolutionary
troops in battle yesterday, during
Inch 300 rebels, were killed and 200
were captured, according to a dispatch
from Peking printed in the newspaper
Sew .China, the dispatch states there
has been almost continuous fighting in
Sr.e Chuen province for several weeks
with the revolutionary forces victorious
m nearly every engagement.
WEALTHY CITIZEN
OF MONTPELIER
DIED IN 1S0ST0N
EXPORT FIGURES INACCURATE.
But Secretary Redfield Says Trouble Has
Been Remedied.
GARMENT WORKERS
IN BOSTON STRIKE
More Than 1,500 Ken, Women and Girls
Went Out To-day to Secure High
er Wages and Better Shop
Conditions.
Boston, Feb. 10. More than 1,500 men,
women and girls employed in shirtwaist
and skirt manufacturing establishments
struck to-day to enforce their demands
for higher wageg and better shop and
working conditions. Employers left near
ly 100 shops. I
lite shop owners claim that an increase
was granted wi'.mu a vcar and thut bus
incess conditions do not warrant further
concessions jt the present tiu.e.
CAPTURE NOT CORROBORATED.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 10. Wholesale
inaccuracies in government export stat
istics wne admitted yesterday by Sec
retary Redfield of the department of
commerce, in a speech before the chamber
of commerce of the United Stales. He
said, however, that by an order iasued
Feb. 1, be had remedied the situation so
far as was in his power, and that the
gross rnors of the past, caused by re
fusal of shippers to give the government
facts and by antiquated laws, would not
be repeated.
The terretary referred to a charge
made a month ago by officials of the
chamber that the percentage of error
in departmental reports waa so great it
was impossible aven for experts to esti
mate it. that single cargoes running into
thousands of dollars in value left Amer
ican ports without being recorded, and
that the, published export figures for
1914 fell far short of the actual exports.
He- said this probably understated the
rase. There was but slight inaccuracy in
import statistic he added, as returns on
imports were more fully compiled under
government control.
Such errors as have existed in record
ing exports," said he, "are probably mi-1
derstated. The business of compiling fig
ures at $5,000,000 a year under a law
of 1820 ia not a simple matter."
Jesse S. Vilea, Former Owner of Pavilion
Hotel and Vilei Electric Light Plant,
Paired Away From Pneumonia
While Visiting There.
Jesse S. Vilea, former owner of the
Pavilion hotel and of the Mies electric
plant and one of Montpelier's niot weal
thy citizens, died at tho Yendome hotel
in lit ton last night of pneumonia, with
which he had been ill for about 10 days,
Mr. Viles left his homo in Montpelier
two week ago for Boston and was tak
en ill shortly after bis arrival there
The news of his death reached JUompc
licr this morning.
Jesse Sumner lies was born in es
ton, Mass., March 5, 18."8, and after be
ng educated in the public schools there
he entered the employ of a clothing
house in I to ton, ho being then 10 years
of age. After 13 vears in that store liu
went on tho road as a traveling sales
man, being employed bv tho same firm
His territory covered New Hampshire,
Vermont and northern New York. He
continued in that capacity for a dor.cn
years, being stiil "on the road"' two years
after buying the Pavilion hotel. He ac
quired that hostelry on Sept. 1, 18.Hd,
after which he added another story to
the structure and thoroughly repaired
the building, putting in an elevator and
making it up-to-date. By the new story
ddition 3o more rooms were permitted.
Mr. lies extended his holdings in this
icinity bv purchasing a large farm iuirt
north of the city of Montpelier, conduct
ing the farm tit coniunction with the ho
tel. He also purchased water nrlvilecea
at Middlesex, acquiring the gristmill and
sawmill there and later erecting an elec
tric light plant with a capacity of 1,500
horsepower. This plant he him-self oper
ated, selling the power in Barre, Mont
pelier and Middlesex. These properties
Mr. Viles disposed of in 1907, since which
time he has not been actively engaged in
business, although maintaining his home
on Western avenue in Montpelier. Some
reports place his wealth as high as $1,-
000.000.
Mr. Viles never entered political life
although he was interested in the affairs
of the Republican party. He was a mem
her of Monitor lodge, . and A. M., of
YYaltham, Mass.
He was married on Nov. 2f. 18fl!t, to
Mrs. Florence Porter, widow of Charles
v . rorier. ne mea eight years ago.-
Mt. V ilea is survived by one daughter,
Katherine Bailey Viles, who resided with
her tattler.
EXPLANATION
IS DEMANDED
OF AUSTRIA
United States Wants the At
tack on American Tank
Steamer Petrolite an
Austrian Submar' Ex
plained Secre' Lan-
MAY EVENT JATE IN
FORMAL DEMAND
But Secretary Lansing De
nies the Truth of Pub
lished Statements That
Such Action Has Already
Been Taken by the Wash
ington Government j.
MRS. L. D. TILL0TS0N DEAD.
BASEBALL A CIVILIZER.
Private Advices Said That British Cap
tured German Raider.
New Y'ork. Feb. 10. Advices received
here yesterday assert that the tjcrman
warship Boon, alleged to be the caplurer
of the Appam, has been captured by the
British armored cruiser Drake, alter a
three-hour fight 200 miles east northeast
of Bermuda, according to a story print
ed by the New York Evening Globe.
The capture of the Boon is said by the
(Jlobe to have been followed by the
seizure of two merchanmen -which were
flying the German flag and one of which
was armed.
Its Capacity in That Direction Testified
to By Ex-President Taft.
New York, Feb. lO.--Stars of the base
ball universe, old and young, joined lure
last night with owners and managers and
fans of prominence in all walks of life
in celebrating the 40th anniversary of
the game at the annual banquet of the
National league. Whatever enmity re
mained as the result of the recent war
waa removed when former foes joined
in the merry making.
Former President Taft. addressing th
diners, declared baseball has been a
important factor in civilizing the Philip
pines. He said American soldiers and
tailors have taught the game to the na
tivea, and that its influence has spread
to the wilds of the island possessions,
Baseball, he added, has been substituted
for head hunting by the Igorrote tribes.
Well Known Washington Woman Had
Been 111 a Month.
Mrs. Alma (Downing), wife of L. D.
Tillotaon, died this morning at 3 o'clock
at her home in Washington, after an
illness' of about a month. Mrs. Tillot
son was born in Washington May B,
1850, being, therefore, in her tifith year,
and in that town she had always resided.
Sept. 21, 1873, she was - married to
Mr. Tillotson, who survives her, with two
daughters, Mrs. Fred Goodwin of Chel
sea, and Mrs. Albert Bressetfe of Wash
ington. There are also three grandchil
dren, Merlin, Elmer and Vincent Good
win.
Mrs. Tillotson was a woman who made
many friends and will be much missed in
the community.
The funeral will tie held from her late
home Saturday afternoon at 1 o'clock,
Rev. A. "M. Smith of Williamstown offi
ciating. Burial .will lie in the village
cemetery in Washington.
Washington. I). C, Feb. 10. Secretary
of State Lansing to-day sent to the Aus-
tro-Huiigarian government through Am
bassador Penfleld a dispatch asking for
nvestigation and explanation of an at
tack by an Austrian submarine on the
American tank steamer Petrolite. Sec
retary Jjinsing said tiiat the published'
tatements that demands have been
made upon the Vienna government are
not true but that it was within the ranga
of possibility that demands of some sort
might be made should the investigation
and explanation asked for warrant them.
CLAIMS AGREEMENT VIOLATED.
MOTORISTS SUE RAILROAD.
FIRE DROVE MANY OUT.
Hamilton. Bermuda, Feb. 10. If bat
y i tie has taken place between the British
ii.vi -u Mumn Lmivr AIIU 111,5 urn IIIAII
cruiser Roon off Bermuda, nothing is
known here of the occurrence.
Numerous inquiries have failed to con
firm the report that the Drake attack
ed and captured the Roon. These ves
sels have not reavhed this port, and, so
far as can be learned, no advices have
been received at Hamilton to indicate
that the Drake has taken a prize into
any other Bermuda port.
JAIL SHAKEN BY EXPLOSION.
Damage at Charles St. Institution in Bos
ton Is 12,500.
Boston. Feb. 10. A lioiler explosion in
an outbuilding of the Charles street jail
threw the prisoners into panic last
Three-Story Structure in Manchester, N
H, Damaged.
Manchester, N. H., Feb. 10. Several
families were driven from their horn
shortly after 0 o'clock last evening when
fire was discovered in the shoe store
owned by E. .T. Octeau at 4tl Amory
street. The block is a three-storr strue
ture, owned by Mrs. Charlotte E. Wood
bury and occupied by several stores and
tenants.
While fighting the flames in the second
storv, Fireman tnarles Garon was over
come. He managed to emanh In one of
the windows and this probably saved his
life. Smoke filled the whole building
and drove 80 persons into the streets.
The damage will amount to about $2,
000.
The blaze started in the rear of the
shoe store, probably from a discarded
match or cigar.
DEATH OF BELVIDERE BR000KS.
Vice-President of Western Uaion
Been HI Several Months.
Had
ng in F-at Africa. That be was in ac-he sent this mcenace: "Will not be at ! Rrown Allen, former nr.lm..i
iMr t-"iiinini mere waa iiium-i-ii awivii omce: io-uay. Am not nonie yester-
H--'-Whcn i m joke nt j4e!
s-h Well
He l"ual!j. W i?ci2i Awk.
PRUSSIANS HAVE LOST
.37oJ7 MEN TO DATE
recently as Ftfb. 2, when an official state- iday yet." .lack O'Lantern.
mnt iuel in Jjonaon emboiiet a re-J
nnrt frnm him that t ift f a cfnrv nrt.f. i
re was being made with the campaign,
While the British expedition apainet
t.'erma-n rjiet Africa was organizing in
November t;-n. Smutz waa placed in
command and early in Decwtnber an
a mm need that the entire fori asked for
the expedition had been recruitiL The
M-ndinn "f in. Smith-Irricn to Africa
to take the oupreme command of all the
forr- for the Eat African operation
followed shortly thereafter.
lind-.n. Fb. 10. The Amster
dam Courant Mat- that rwent
Pruian casualty litts show 37,
. dead, wounded and miing.
Th total Pniian to- to date
are computed by that nwpaper
a 2.370.37. "t inrludine th cas-naltW-
on the Wurt-mhurp. I'aia
nan, Saxon and miv l t and
aom enrwernire Grrman officers ia
the Turkinh er tir.
Staunton, was ilw made public. Allen
wrote that he had been called on the
long diMance telephone from New York
by Mr. Hitchcock and advied to ro to
Richmond to confer w ith Mr. CsbelL
"M. Cabell laid before me the cam
paign," Allen's letter said, which is as
follows:
"The friend of .Tuftfice Huc!'e with'
Governor Whitman at tln head, got to- was uwd tor
gthr and sent to Mr. H tohcork. wM f tj,e rrinonera.
NEW OFFICE CREATED.
waa. a I snppoae roii know, about the eeed t2JHft,
ret politician in t!e country an. I ar
ranged to place him in full chare of the
HiiCbes campaign. The arrangeutent is
not to antafonie Roosevelt hewii it
wiU W enrelr Hughes or RooeTelt. and
under the arrangement H:t '., k. of
coure. Wilt be p"truiter general and
tl preaiwr f tie neit administration.
New York. Feb. 10. Belvidere Brooks,
viee-treident of the Wetern I'nkm
niijht and it was many minutes liefore I Telegraph company, died at his home
the guards could quiet them. No one'here to-day of heart trouble. He had
was injured, but all the buddings of thejbeen in poor health for several months
jail were shaken and manv windows I but death was unexpected.
were broken by the force of tiie explo
sion. The roof of the bucket sliop. a two
story building 125 feet in 1,-ngth, was
torn off and the Ixiiler was hurled a dis
tance of 41 feet, landing in the city yard
on Grove street, adjoining the jail" prop
erty. There wa no one in the building
I hrt TVa I-- - J t
....,,, ...,.:.,. . tl..!...... of the m.,1
one. about eieht teet in lencth. and , ""c " v ' . ... " ' ,
hcatin water for the use r rrM"' ""Wiry.
The hs will not !
ROBINSON GLOVER.
Partiei Married in Barre Are to Reside in
Waterbury.
Because Their Machine Was Struck By
Central Vermont Train.
Brattleboro, Feb. 10. Two lawsuits.
each asking damages of $10,000, were
brought here to-day against the Central
Vermont Railway Co. The plaintiffs are
Mrs. Nora Howe of Townshend, wife of
H. H. Howe, and their granddaughter,
Marion Howe, three years old. daughter
of Harry Howe. Hary Howe bringing the
action in behalf of his daughter.
The two plaintiffs were; injured in an
automobile accident Sept. 10, 1915, at a
crossing at Park s siding in V est low ns
hend, the automobile in which the fam
ily was riding beinir struck by a locomo
tive, the engine hitting the, rear end of
the automobile a9 tho latter was being
driven across the track,
There is no denying that the two wore
badly hurt. They were brought here in
serious condition. It is expected that
the question of ths exercise of due care
and caution will enter largely into the
case on both sides.
Benjamin Gasparello Brings Suit Against
Vincent Laffargo.
Benjamin Gasparello of Barre, the pro
prietor of a printing establishment in
Barre and publisher of an Italian news
paper, has brought chancery proceeding
in Washington county court against lu
cent Laffargo, also of Barre and until
recently part owner of the establishment
which Gasparello now owns.
The plaintiff sets forth in his plead
ings that the defendant had an interest
in the C. A. Bottinelli plant, and upon
the sale of the game to the plaintiff it
was agreed that neither Laffargo nor his
partner, V. Panizza, waa to enter into
business competition in Barre for a pe
riod of five years. The plaintiff claims
that Laffargo has failed to live up to tho
contract and is now conducting the Mod
ern Printing company's business at 351
North Main street.
Laffargo represents that he is not the
owner of the Modern Printing company's
establishment but utterly refuses to dis
close who is and the plaintiff seeks to
have this fact made known. The plain
tiff also prays that an injunction lie is
sued restraining laffargo from doing
business. R. A. Hoar represents the
plaintiff.
BURIAL IN SO. R0YALT0N.
Ralph W. Hutchins Died in Albany, N.
Y. Leaves Young Bride.
South Rovalton, Feb. 10. The funeral
of Ralph W. Hutchins was held at the
Methodist church yesterdav afternoon.
and burial was in Riverview cemetery.
The body was brought yesterday from
Albany, N. Y.. where for several years
Mr. Hutchins had Wen employed as a
SI. C A. secretarv. Mr. Hutchins was
the son of Mr. and Mrs. C. I Hutchins
of this place and was graduated from the
local hiL'h school and the Albany Bus
iness college. Besides his parents, a
wife, to whom he had been married less
than three months, survives.
TWO CASES ARGUED
Before Vermont Supreme Court, One Be
ing From Washington County.
The Washington county case of K. D.
Bartlett and others against Antonio Bo
nazr.i was argued in Vermont supreme
court to-day, the case coming up on
appeal by the defendant. Conant ami
Gordon appeared for the plaintiff and
Edward H. Deavitt for the defendant.
The Caledonia county case of Oscar C.
Woodruff, administrator, vs. William L.
Donaldson waa also argued.
IN PROBAT", COURT
H. G. Woodruff Appointed Administrator
of A. S. Martin's Estate.
In Washington countv probate court
to-day Harrison G. Woodruff of Barre
was appointed administrator of the es
tate of Arthur S. Martin, late of Barre.
George If. Femora of Jlontpelier settled
his accounts as trustee crested by the
will of Judson Hill late of Montpelier.
CRIME MYSTERY MAINTAINED
Deaf Mute Gesticulated But Couldn't En
lighten the Authorities.
Independence, Ky., Feb. 10. The story
as to how Edward Sagers and his wife,
Kining. met death in their home near
here deepened yesterday. The bodies of
Sagers and bis wife were found late
Tuesday night with bullet holes in their
heads. A revolver was lying near tli
man. In the same house was a d.-af
mute who had been einpkved around the
farm. After a searching invent ipt ion
both the police and coroner are inclined
to the belief that both were murdered.
The deaf mute, who was known as
"Dummy England, tried in vain yester
dav to convey some intelligence to th
police but his gesticulations and ac
tions could not be understood. The po
lice believe, however, that he was in
the hou with the dead man and wom
an tor 24 Hours iieiore iw crime was re-
T. D. Fitzgerald Becomes Valuation En
gineer For Central Vermont R. R.
St. Albans. Feb. 10. A circular issued
to-day from the otlice of I resident K. t . , .hritie and that he ar
mith of the Central Vermont railway j ,.. ), ho,lie wiili their hands
'announces the appointment of T. D. Fitz- I r,i ., .heir breasts. fii ials se-
Viola Glover and Arthur D. Robinson IgeralJ as valuation engineer with offices rilis.y joubt the theorv, however. tNt.
were married in this city Feb. " by Jus- j in St. Albans. He has been division en- j h? nTthing to do'with the a. toil
tice of the Peace James Maekay ami have gineer on the southern New England l .j f t. eritnr. The Ser
family was prominent in this kwality.
Collingwoe' (- Millar, father ef Ma-
agr Clinton F. Millar of the Barre office
!of the Consolidated Lirht
Mrs. T- H. Rumrill of Randolph i the, Tf,terdaT after severs I weeks' illness,
guest of b. r iter, Mrs. B. H. Tenner f j T,.terday after several weeks illnewi.
Washington street. lif wa4 ,"hwf engine at the Boston eity
Mrs. W. S. Ingalls of GreenVrn ia i hall and leaes bis w ife and the son men
iitipg at the borne of her parent. Mr. i tioned, Tl-e last named lft Ilarre yes
and Mrs. W. F. Bradford of Park street. lday noon for Boston.
1 he ouw-e is a
necessarv bv the work
being carried on by the federal govern
ment in valuing the rauroad projerty
of the United States.
There wdl be a meeting of the junior
dramatic club of St. Mmira'a rhurrh at
a oYhk this rienirp at the Horse of
trs. Ve irf-rrsr.l. 4 laurel street. Prr
order Msu'h White, president.
ST. ALBANS SELECTED.
Far State Convention ef The Slights ef
Colimbus.
St- Aihans. Feb. 1. The state ro-trrti-n
of t ' e Knights of ( oItinhu will
he brld in St. A 'bans. Mir . T'e thir t
r.s wdl be exemplified the riTj of
Oe tX '
