DENY PEACE TALK: LONDON, Feb. 11. The Belgian legation here today formally denied any peace proposals made by Germany to Belgiufh:; ' - -
DISMISSED THOSE WHO FAILED: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. Secretary Daniels today approved the dismissal of 82 midshipmen for fa"iliiret examinations...
DID COSSACKS CAPTURE ASSIM BEY? PETROGRAD, Feb. 1 1. Teheran dispatches today say that a Cossack patrol captured Assim 3ey'the Turkish ambas
sador to Persia, together with several Austrian officers. j
FRENCH TRY TO REGAIN TRENCHES: BERLIN, Feb. 11. Four successive attempts by the French to recapture their positions lost, northwest, of Vimy, were
repulsed today. Fierce attacks south of Somme were also beaten back. j
- FAMOUS INVALID DIES: NEW YORK, Feb. 11. Miss Mollie Fancher, who recently celebrated a "Golden Jubilee" as an invalid, died today at' her home in Brook
lyn'. She was known to thousands throughout the country on account of her extraordinary correspondence, built up during her 50 years of bed-ridden existence al
though she was able to use only her right arm, through a series of accidents sustained in 1866. She used up U00,000 pounds of worstedjn, knitting. ; V
,u.
i.
ARIZONA
YUMA SOUTHWEST
-Till
1
"1- i
VOLUME XLVI. NUMBER 11.
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1916.
ARIZONA SENTINEL FOUNDED i3?u
Yuma Project Farmers Need Help of U.
of Agriculture
MMERGIAL CLUB MEETING
ONIGHT SETTLES IS PROJECT
(By B. P. Fly)
The business interests of
Yuma county never held a
more important meeting than
the one scheduled for 7:00
o'clock this evening in the
temporary headquarters of
the Commercial Club.
Upon the results of this
meeting hinges the rapid ad
vancement and prosperity of
Yuma; or, the town, project
and county will remain just
as they are, for years to come
for it will be placed square
ly up to this meeting as to
whether or not a fight is to
be made to begin work on
the first unit of the mesa.
An informal meeting of some of the
most influential business men of this
city was held yesterday afternoon
with Project Manager Lawson to as
certain if it were at all likely that
money can be provided at the present
time for starting this important work,
and it was my great pleasure to hear
the project manager outline the man
ner in which this money can be ob
tained, just as I had suggested that it
could be.
The entire scheme will be laid bare
at tonight's meeting, which is to be
Composed of the Board of Supervisors,
City Council, President and Secretary
ofihe Water Users' Association, and
tjie Board of Directors of the Com
mercial Club, Judge Frank Baxter, E.
It was the unanimous opinion of
son and other prominent business and
professional men. v
work on the Yuma project and be pre
those present yesterday afternoon
that there is good reason to believe
the money can be obtained, and it
was further agreed that the fight to
get the money should be made at
once.
The object of tonight's meeting is
for the purpose of taking the first
step in the direction of financing the
work that must be done. Mr. Lawson
has already telegraphed to Washing
ton, asking permission to give the
committee that is to be appointed all
the data in his office that has any
bearing on the matter. When such
permission is granted, it. will then
become the duty of the committee to
familiarize Itself with every phase of
wor kon the Yuma project and be pre
pared to answer any question that
may be put to it by Washington of
ficials. Each member of the commit
tee must be particularly well posted
on the matter of noi umy inc cost of
the mesa work, but the great benefits
that will accrue to the entire project
by opening up the first unit of the
forty-odd thousand acres of mesa
lands.
There is a tremendous lot of work
to do before the committee starts for
Washington. The sooner this com
mittee is appointed the better, it
should be appointed at tonight's meet
ing, and they should be gathering all
the facts and figures they will need
while ways and means are being de
vised to send them to Washington.
HOUSE PREPARING MILITARY BILL FOR US
(By Associated Press)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 1 1. The Hquse military com
mittee today closed its hearing on the army bill after a
resolution was adopted thanking President Wilson for
his great confidence in the committee, as expressed in
his correspondence with former Secretary of War Garri
son. The committee expects to have the bill ready for
House to vote on within a month.
WILSON WINS ON THE NICARAGUAN TREATY
(By Associated Press)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. President Wilson practi
cally won his fight today for the ratification of the Nica
raguan treaty in an executive session of the Senate. His
most vigorous opponents admitted that the administra
now holds enough votes to command the necessary two
thirds for its ratification tomorrow.
MUST SERVE TIME IN THE ATLANTA PRISON
(By Associated Press)
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. The United States Circuit
Court of Appeals today denied the motion of David La
mar, the so-called "Wolf of Wall Street," to reinstate
his appeal against conviction for impersonating Con
gressman Palmer of Pennsylvania in an effort to defraud
J. P. Morgan & Co., and the United States Steel Corpor
ation. This ends Lamar's fight to prevent the execution
of a two-year sentence of imprisonment at Atlanta, Ga.
(By B. F. Fly)
Two great departments of
the government are now giv
ing particular attention to
Yuma: The Interior Depart
ment, presided over by Sec
retary Lane, and the War
Department, just at present
without a head because of
the resignation 'yesterday af
ternoon by Secretary Garri-
pun uic nisi uciug uccjjiy
interested because of the
work being done by the Re
clamation Service, and the
second because of the break
ing of the old Government
levee erected under the' su
pervision of the War Depart
ment twenty-five years ago,
ithe breaking of which caused
Yuma to be flooded.
There is another depart
ment that should take even
a greater degree of interest
in Yuma project than either
of the departments named:
The Department of Agricul
ture, presided over by Secre
tary Houston.
I'll tell you why:
Year after year, Secretary Houston
spends millions of dollars in an effort
to rid the country of all manner of
diseases and pests prevalent on the
farms and stock ranges. Millions of
dollars have been spent in an effort
to rid the southern cotton-growing
states of the destructive boll weo-.il.
Other millions haye been spent to
eradicate the hoof and mouth disease
among cattle; to get rid of the dread
ed tuberculosis among milch cows; to
help the sheep raiser find a ready
remedy for scab in hi3 flock; to rid
California of the ground squirrel, and
so on and so froth.
But how about the pesky gopher?
The government has invested al
most $100,000,000 in establishing re
clamation projects throughout the
western states, and must of necessity
spend quite that much more before
all the arid lands of the deserts have
been reclaimed. Every one of these
projects is honey-combed with goph
ers, the pesky little devils that des
troy crops, cause irrigating canals to
overflow public roads, and finally so
weaken levees that it is comparative
ly easy for flood waters to make them
crumble like so much snow before a
furnace.
No matter how hard Reclamation
Service may work to keep the gopher
from the levees they are multiplying
in adjacent fields as fast as rabbits.
No matter how diligently the farmer
may work to keep them from his cul
tivated land they are multiplying by
the hundreds in wild lands adjacent
to his fields. It is almost beyond the
ingenuity of the Reclamation Service
and the farmers to keep the gophers
from doing their deadly work. It
would seem, therefore, that now is
the opportune time for the great
Agricultural Department to step into
the breach and by scientific study
devise some means by which every
Reclamation project in the country
can be rid of the ever active and
pesky little gopher. If Secretary
Huston can spend millions of dollars
every year in ridding other parts of
the country of pests it certainly can
spare a small portion of those mil
lions in an effort to help the farmers
of Yuma-project. The farmers of the
'valley are paying a bounty of two
and a half cents for every gopher
scalp, while the county Is more than
doubling that bounty. The local Re
clamation office keeps gopher catch
ers on the job all the time, and yet
with all this foresight, with all the
expense the abomniable little crea
tures keep up their work of devasta
tion and destruction.
If the wharf rats can be success
fully eradicated from the big shipping
centers; if the ground squirrel can
be curtailed throughout the Sacramen
to and San Joaquin valleys; if the
boll weevil can be made to cease his
ipredalions on the southern cotton
fields; if the sheepman can be given
relief from the hated scab disease; if
the cattleman can be helped to rid
his herd of lumpy-Jaw, tuberculosis,
hoof and mouth disease, WHY CAN'T
YUMA PROJECT GET A GOPHER
REMEDY?
It is up to .you, Mr. Secretary of
Agriculture Huston, to get busy.
Send some of your experts here to
Yuma and let them study the habits
of the pesky littel gopher. You will
find that they have no regard what
ever for farms or cities, for it was
their destructive work that caused
Yuma project levees to break, and
caused the government levee to break
and flood the city of Yuma. Send on
your experts.
Oil FIGURE WILL HON
f HI If SON HALL
A BIG DISAPPOINT!!!!
Richard Jose, the most famous of
all American singers, whose voice has
been .heard from one end of the world
to the other during the 27 years of
his career, was in Yuma last night
for the purpose of filling his .engage
ment at the Yuma theatre. He had
not been apprised that the theatre
had changed hands, and Manager Jo
hannsen knew nothing of the engage
ment. It was a great disappointment
to the great singer, and as a conse
quence he left Yuma for the east on
the 10:40 train, declaring that he will
sue the former manager of the Yuma
theatre for damages.
"I would very gladly have cancel
led my regular picture play and sub
stituted Mr. Jose," said Manager Jo
hannsen of the Casino, "had I known
in time that he was booked for "fcuuiu,
but- as it was, I could not make the
change, he having arrived too late in
the day to make the necessary change
and announcement."
This is the regular night for another
run of the Triangle pictures at the
Casino. It goes without saying that
the house will be packed.
(By B. F. Fly)
One of the most noted men
in the United States will
reach this city on Sunday,
and that night he will deliver
a lecture at Rapson hall.
This man is none other
than Hon. Emil Seidel, for
mer mayor of the city that
was made famous by a man
named Schlitz, who manu
factured a beverage that was
known as beer.
While Schlitz made Milwaukee
famous in one way, Emil Seidel made
it famous in anothei4, for it was his
campaign for the mayoralty of that
city that at once attracted thev atten
tion of thinking people from one end
of the' United States to the other. He
made his race purely from the stand
point of a Socialist. Both old parties
fought him to a standstill, but he won scholar, a man who knows what hb
the election by a majority that surely wants to say and how to say it; a man
of the world, who is ever willing to
give and take, a man whose heart is
in the cause he represents.
If you can not agree with your
Socialist neighbor, go hear Mr. Seidel,
and then be ready to debate the ques
tion with your neighbor. It certainly
won't hurt you, and by going you will
be paying a compilment to one of
EMIL SEIDEL
astounded the country something
like 30,000.
For two years he administered the
affairs of that great city as a Social
ist. True, his hands were tied to a
very large extent, but, he never lost
sight of his Socialism. And he made
a good official. But the two old par-!
ties, together with the , aid of inde
pendents who disliked the word "So-; the most noted men who has honored
cialist," he was defeated for re-elec- j Yuma with his presence in many a
tion. Since then he has devoted al-1 Jong year.
most his entire time to lecturing inj Mr. Seidel will probably be intro
the interests of the cause so dear to duced-to the audience by my friena,
his heart. He is a pleasing and force-1 Judge Peter T. Robertson, who has
ful speaker, and no matter whether been practicing on his speech for sev
you agree with his ideas or not, he feral days. That speech of itself will
will hold your attention just as long j be worth more than the price of ad
as he speaks. j mission, for the Judge intends to con-
If you go to hear him you need not
expect to hear a rattle-brained, wild
eyed anarchist, for Mr. Seidel is
nothing of the kind. He is a polished
vince Mr. Seidel that he is not the
only pebble on the beach, when it
comes to talking Socialism from the
standpoint of a scholar.
AUTOPSY SHOWS MISS LAMBERT POISONED
(By Associated Press)
CHICAGO, Feb. 11. An autopsy by the coroner's
physician on the body of Marion Lambert, the 18-year-old
school girl who was found dead in a woods at Lake
Forest yesterday, disclosed poison in her stomach. And
a man's footprints were found in the snow, paralleling
rhoes of the girl. Detectives are unable to find the man.
KEY
The war not only helped the Demo
crats with their finances, but it fur
nishes their president with an excuse
for going on the stump. Manchester
Union.
POUNDERS WANT A WAGE ADJUSTMENT
(By Associated Press)
TOLEDO, Feb. 11. A strike of train dispatchers and
telegraphers of the ,"Clover Leaf Route" is threatened
within a few hours. An adjustment of wages to conform
with the scales of other roads is demanded.
NAVAL INQUIRY SUBMARINE E-2'S DISASTER
( (3y Associated Press)
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. Lieut. Fisher, judge advocate
of the naval court of inquiry investigating the disaster
aboard the U. S. submarine E-2, last January 15, costing
5 lives, severely criticized Miller Rees Hutchison, repre
senative of the Edison Storage Battery Company for go
ing ahead with the test "when he knew possibility of hav
ing trouble started."
