4~
The Intelligent, common iwie
worktnipneifptvferto deaiwlth eh*
problem* of today, vtth fUdi they
must contend if thej want to make
advancements, rather thaa to deal
with picture or a dream.—Gom*
pew.
Vol. 23. No. 49.
E
[Better Living Conditio Group Plan of Insurance Thrown
comes Would Best *f
People of Nation.
[MANY WRONGS MUST
BE RIGHTED SAYS WALSH
Diseases Are Caused From Lack
of Proper Food and Other
Necessities,
New, York, July 15.—Abolition of
(khiM labor health insurance more
jt»xes on land, incomes and inheri­
tances federal acquisition of natural
|Tnonopolies public operations of pub­
lic utilities untaxing of the produces
«f labor.
These are am oner the requisites of a
program for "real preparedness advo­
cated by economists and social work­
ers at a conference in this city. A na­
tional movement to put all candidates
for office this fall on record on this
program is proposed. Similar con­
ferences are to be held throughout the
country.
Frank Walsh Is Speaker.
"A man must have a stake in his
country to love' it and to fight for it,"
iwas the keynote of the conference, as
sounded by Frank P. Walsh, chairman
of the industrial relations commission.
"We all thrilled as children," he
said, 'when we read of the embattled
farmers who fired shots heard around
the world. Could we expect the tenant
farmers of Texas and Oklahoma to
fire such shots? Father, mother, chil­
dren, all together, get less than $300 a
jyear. Would they fight for that priv­
ilege
'Preparedness for war is only a
symbol of that infinitely greater thing,
preparedness for peace, built on jus­
tice and social welfare. The great
foe of social justice is monopoly—
monopoly of land, of natural re­
source?, and the pwer to control other
men's lives.
Half of land Used.
"Throughout the United States there
Is scarcely more than half the arable
land that is cultivated, and yet nearly
all of it is held in private possession,
and a very great part of it in large
a,nd growing estates.
I'Only a.- tfttle pver a quarter of a ceri
tlVy ago-Oklahoma was opened to set­
tlement, yet a large percentage of the
farms in that state are worked by
tenants who have no stake in the
1»nd, and who, if guns were placed in
their hands, would be 'embattled', to
(protect some one else's 'altars and
fires'—would fight, as they now work,
for the benefit of those who exploit
them."
Walsh bitterly attacked the va­
grancy laws, which he said made crim­
inal of the man who was loafing be
cause he and an employer could not
agree on a price for his labor.
Real Preparedness.
"Until the workers have the power
to say what thejr shall get out of their
,work we shall never hare true pre­
paredness in this country. This coun­
try will be really prepared when its
jlands are used for production, its in­
dustries for manufacture, its high­
ways for transportation, and its de
^posi of natural resources are worked
and are of access to all men and
.•woman of the natkn. Tt would mean
an Americanism so robust that none
•would dare attack us.'
William Lustgarten, president of the
Loyal American Legion, took occasion
to condemn Col. Roosevelt as a "sel­
fish man," and said:
"Everywhere the struggle for mere
existence is becoming more intense
iand is destroying forces that make
for improvement and progress. Dis­
eases because of lack of food, bad
lodging, monotonous and weariness of
toil and child labor are constantly on
the increase. The first requisite of
Continued on Page 2.
(By Julian Pierce.)
WASHINGTON, July 15.—An out­
line of the plan for the formation of
a Pan-American Federation of Labor
has just been made public through a
statement issued from the national
headquarters of the American Feder
ation of Labor.
The statement, which is signed by
Samuel Gompers. president of the A.
IF. of L., is an integral part of the
credentials issued under the authority
I of the executive council to the repre­
sentatives of the organized labor
movement of Mexico who partici
jpated in the deliberations of the In
iter national Labor Conference held in
(^Washington last week.
Vf~""
A "Parliament of Men."
Those representatives—Carlos Lo
veira and Baltazar Pages, of Yucutan,
and Luis N. Morones,' of Mexico City,
and S. Gonzalez Garcia, of Orizaba-—
are the accredited representatives of
the International Labor Conference
authorized to acquaint the-workers of
Mexico and Central and South Amer­
ica with the necessity of international
alliance of the workers.
"A Pan-American Federation of
Labor is not only possible, but it is
necessary," declares the statement
"It will constitute a ready and fit
agency for injecting into International
deliberations at opportune and criti|»'
oJJEjkef' Bait by Milwaukee
tot
j£
Tation.
NEVER INTRODUCED
AMONG UNION SHOPS
Wages Sufficient to Provide for
Rainy Day Would Do Much
More for Labor.
One of the new schemes that cer­
tain employing interests are bringing
out is *o insure the lives of their em­
ployes. A newspaper clipping from
a Milwaukee (Wis.) newspaper reads
as follows: "Following close upon
other larga manufacturers of the
city, the F. W. Mayer Boot and Shoe
company announced recently that it
had taken out a group policy of life
insurance on nearly -400 of its em­
ployes. The policies will be absolutely
free to employes of his company."
There are several things about this
proposition of group insurance, so
called, to hich we_would like to call
the attention not only of our mem­
bers and other trade unionists, but of
fair minded employers as well, says
the Shoe Workers' Journal.
Not In Union Shops.
First of all, we Wish to draw atten­
tion to the fact, which may fairly be
regarded as significant, that proposi­
tions of this sort are never introduced
into union shops. Why? Because in
the union shop the workmen have
the machinery to obtain some sort of
fair ari.iufc.ment of the wage, question
and are not to be subsidized by a sop
to be throvn to-them when they are
dead.
This group insurance plan says to
the wage earners: "If you have been
good toys and have worked for me at
my prfceg 'and- conditions for a year
or more I will insure your life free of
cost to you while you continue in. my
employ at the wages and conditions
which I shall fix for you without any
of your assistance or advice."
The moment a wage earner leaves
that employment he ceases to be in
sured. While he has worked there
he has worked at the employer's
price, and yet the employer has nerve
enough to tell him' that -he, the em­
ployer, is giving the wage earner, life
insurance free of charge.
Does, the employer iMlljt. pay ,for
this insurance? Certalifly ndt.~:~:HtSi
intention is to offer the insurance as
a bait by *vhich to lure the employe
to work contentedly, for him at a low
wage scale, so that when the em­
ployer has paid the insurance prem­
iums he has made a net profit on the
labor.
Looked at from the shortsighted
angle, Hhis-may appear to be good
business to such employers. An em­
ploye may work, ,for -instance, for $3
to $6 a week less" money and in ten
years may have received $1,500 to
$3,000 less in the pay envelope, but
can .comfort himself with the cheer­
ful reflection that when h*e is dead
his family will cash in $500.
Not Good Industrial Policy.
As a farsighted business proposi­
tion we submit that this group insur­
ance plan is not a good industrial
policy. We think it will appeal to the
average' fair minded' business man
that it is better policy to give the
wage earner a fair standard of living,
Wage earners will be better satisfied
with a more satisfactory pay envelope
here and'now than with a life insur­
ance. policy which at best will only
give their family a pittance after they
are dead and which the employer can
discontinue any time he sees fit.
Suppose, for instance, the F. Mayer
Boot and Shoe company or any other
concern carried on -this group insur­
ance for a period of five years arid at
the end of that time dropped it. If
their employes have remained in
their employ because of the insur
ance then there is five years of their
life which they have spent qualifying
Continued on Page 2.
dal times consideration for human
rights, interests'and welfare.
"The realization of an international
alliance between the labor move­
ments of all Pan-American countries
will constitute a genuine parliament
of men, one of the highest purposes
toward which mankind has aspired."
An appeal is made to the workers
of all American countries to co-rpper
ate in the detail work of organizing
the proposed international labor alli­
ance.
Exploiters Getting Together.
The statement declares the revolu­
tion in Mexico represents the "Cause
of humanity and democracy," and as­
serts that the Constitutionalist gov­
ernment represents a genuine effort
to "establish institutions of frliedom
and justice." Attention is called to
the feet that the American Federa­
tion of Labor appealed to President
Wilson to recognize the Constitution­
alist government.
The statement refers directly to the
influence exercised by the American
Federation of Labor in preventing
the war with Mexico, due to the fric­
tion occasioned by the presence of
American. troops in Mexican territory
and the resulting encounter at Carri
zal.
Attention is dU^cted to the fact
that the personnel of the government
fu. »V
The governor knows there are two sides to every
question. TJiis is no exception. Daily papers are trying
tj befog the issue by laying the entire blame on the
few 'agitator^' who belong to the Industrial Workers
of the World.
But we repeat what we stated in these columns last
week. No set of agitators would be able to start any­
thing on the iron ranges or anywhere else unless there
was 'something rotten in Denmark.'
.Yes, there are two sides to the,question.
There are two sides to the shooting affairs that re­
sulted in.the tragedy which snuffed: out the life of
one of Duluth's best citizens, Jamie Myron. Governor
Burnquist" has one version of it. His representative,
sent to the range to investigate the trouble got his
information from one side and, we are reliably in­
formed by'Mayor Boylan of Virginia, made no attempt
to get the other side, the miners' side, of the affair.
For 'example: The truth has been withheld regard­
ing the activity of the mine guards in connection with
Mr. Myron's murder. It is said by tho& in a position
to know that the shooting was started solely on account
Of the aggressiveness of one Nick Dillon,, a mine guard,
who received his training as a bouncer for a house of
ill fame in the outskirts of Virginia.
Our informant tells us,—and this is a. matter of
common knowledge among the people on the range
that' Dillon stormed into the miner's home and de­
manded that the striker submit to arrest.
The woman at the house told the mine guard that
her husband would not be arresteu by Dillon. She
told him that her husband would submit to .arrest by
Officer O'Hara of Biwabik. This angered, Dilion. irtlo:,
acting under the authority conferred on him by the
mining corporation and the sheriff of St. Louis county,
attempted to make the arrests.
We presume that legally Dillon has the 'right' to
make arrests.
But we don't .have to presume this: We know that
if the mine guards attended to their business of pro­
tecting the mining properties if the St. Louis county
authorities would stop deputizing the private guards
of the mining corporations, the trouble on the range
would quickly adjust itself.
The strikers on the range would be peaceable if the
St. L6uis county authorities would give them a square
deal.
^D^utiaing.pEivate uuneguar.ds and giving, .them th^
authority of county officers is not giving a square deal
to the strikers.
In the first place these men are not paid by the
county, but by the mining companies. They know their
masters they will do their masters' will. Theoret­
ically, they are officers of the law, but actually they
are private thugs of the mining companies, with the
cloak of legal authority thrown about them by the
sheriff of St. Louis county.
In the very nature of things they cannot act with
the fairness and discretion of real officers of the law,
paid by the people of the county.
They are not officers of the law. They are not
servants of the people, employed to protect the public
interest-
They are merely the paid thugs of the mining com­
panies, with the legal authority of the county which
attempts to give them a degree of responsibility.
"A rose by any other name would smell as sweet."
Let us go back and dig up a little local history.
Some two or three years ago there was a dock
workers' strike on in Duluth. Of course, the daily press
laid the responsibility at the door of the I. W. W.
STEEL WORKERS STRIKE.
BALTIMORE, July 15.—About 125
of the 150 steel workers employed by
the Carnegie Steel company sus­
pended work when three of their, fel­
lows were discharged for circulating
a petition. Thy men requested the
company to establish ah eight-hour
day, instead of the present 10-hour'
system. A 10 per cent wage increase
with time and one-half for overtime
was also asked.
A. F. OF OUTLINES PLAN FOR FORMATION OF
high commission of' /United States
capitalists which recently made a trip
to South America to establish a closer
bond of fellowship between the inter­
national exploiters of the working
people included no one who "dis­
tinctly represented human' interests
and the rights and welfare of the
masses."
This denial of labor representation
on the high commission's personnel is
declared to be an added reason for
the, necessity of a Pan-American
Labor Federation to guard the dis­
tinct class interests of the workers.
The statement to the workers of
Mexico, Central and South America
follows:
"A purpose has long been in the
minds of many which has gradually
been taking form and seeking an op­
portunity, for concrete expression.
Such an opportunity has been born
out of the strained relations that have
recently existed between the, United
ajfattes and Mexico and the great anx
ilty aroused thereby in hearts and
minds of. the workers of both coun­
tries. There has. come at least one
result that is potential ior the main­
tenance of human rights and the es­
tablishment of principles of human
welfare^ in international relations.
"This, was not a new thought for
the American Federation of Labor.
F0R 800IAL JUSTICE. EC0N0MI0 REF0EM AND POLITICAL PEO
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, JULY 15,1916.
TIME TO ASCERTAIN TRUTH ABOUT
Governor Burnquist is taking too much for granted
in dealing with the strike on the iron ranges. We
will put it in another way. He is relying on informa­
tion culled from prejudiced sources and fails to exer­
cise the judgment he is capable of exercising in attempt­
ing to get at the facts in the controversy between
thei strikers and the mining companies.
PROGRESS IN RACINE.
RACINE, July 13.—John S. Martin,
traveling agent of the Carriage, Wag­
on and Automobile Workers' Union,
Chicago, who is in: charge":of a mem­
bership drive in Racine, was in Mil­
waukee Monday to secure speakers for
a meeting' in that city on Wednesday
night. Frank J. Weber will go. The
union is making good progress in Ra­
cine, Martin reports.
Upon several occasions the same idea
had been advanced, and in the pro­
ceedings of the 1915 convention of
the American Federation of Labor in­
dorsement was given to a proposal
for an organization that would repre­
sent human rights and interests in
all Pan-American countries. The
necessity for such a labor federation
has been increasingly greater through
efforts to establish closer commercial
and political relations between the
countries included in the Pan-Ameri­
can Union.
Labor Not Represented.
"In the high commission which re­
cently made a trip to Pan-American
countries for the purpose of promot­
ing better commercial and industrial
relations, although there was no
phase in any of the relations between
these different countries that did not
in some way affect human interests
and human welfare, there was no one
on that commission who. distinctly
represented human interests and the
rights and welfare of the masses' of
the people.
"I have urged upon the United
States government that this serious
ommission ought to be rectified, and
I urge the labor movements of all
Pan-American countries to bring the
same matter to the attention of their
respective governments.* But such
But the facts are that the strike started on the
Allouez ore docks when five or six men lost their lives
because the company declined to adhere to the ordinary
rules of safety. The men repeatedly asked the com­
pany to overcome defects in the working conditions
danger to the men employed on the docks. The com­
pany, refused to listen to the appeals of the men.
One night on the docks, about nine o'clock, these
half dozen unfortunate workers lost their lives. Their
comrades, 600 of them, struck. The strike spread to
the Duluth docks where the men walked out in sym­
pathy.
I -Of course the I. W. W- did it!
I David Foley, one of the Oliver's guards on the vange
f^as brought to Duluth to help chase away the trouble
jjfbme "agitators" who induced the men to strike.
Foley was deputized by the local authorities, of course,
put we won't go into the details of the story.
However, we do want to call attention to one inter­
esting phase of the situation. A hearing was held
police, C. H. Troyer and a number of men Inter­
ested- in the strikers' cause attended.
The representatives of the strikers' asked the safety
commissioner to recommend the discontinuance of the
practice of deputizing private mine guards as officers
of the law* They claimed then as the miners claim
now that most of the trouble #as started by the mine
guards, or was due to the presence of these guards.
During the conference Chief Troyer was asked this
question:
"Do you think you could manage the situation down
there at the docks without the assistance of the mine
a
|His answer was in the affirmative and the chief made
it plain that his force was sufficient to keep order, and
that he thought further trouble could be avoided if the
imported guards were removed.
Governor Burnquist can stop the deputizing of private
guards if he cares to do it, Unprejudiced people on
the range, who are in closer touch with the situation
than are the editors of the local-daily press, will tell
him -where the responsibility lies,., namely,, at the door
of the authorities who invite trouble when they deputize
the men who are paid by the mining companies and
who know no other masters.
But the governor has not 3ret proven himself bi&
ertough for the job. He has the power to do this if
he. wants to exercise that power.
^The-Labor World hopes that Governor Burnquist will
take the-bull by the homs 3|ndr lprbve to the people
off Minnesota where his syii^i^^ls are in this: control
ve|syi We do not mean by this that we ask him to
ex$ouse the miners' cause. We only aslc him to take
a :«elear, unprejudiced view of the situation and act as
.atillnformed, aftd intelligent executive -should act under
the circumstances.
Meanwhile, the great Steel trust continues to play
the baby act.
With the legal advantage it enjoys a giant monopoly
whose only object is to make profits at the expense of
the workers' blood and starvation wages, it says, "If
the I. W. W. agitators don't leave town, we will close
down our mines."
Which, is all pure bluff and baby- talk.
In the same breath they loudly proclaim through their
official mouthpiece that THEY ARE SHIPPING MORE
ORE TODAY THAN BEFORE THE STRIKE BEGAN.
The streets of Eveleth, Chisholm, Virginia, Hibbing
and other range cities are as quiet as they are at any
time, strikes or no strides.-
You can't find any violence on 4he ranges. But you
can find plenty of violence on the front page of a certain
morning newspaper not far-from., the city of. Duluth.
We don't like to suspect- that Governor Burnquist
obtains his "reliable" information from this newspaper.
It is easy to ascertain the facts.
Governor Burnquist, it- is up to yott!
HEADS LABOR LAW BUREAU.
WASHINGTON, July 13.—W. B.
Rubin, Milwaukee attorney, has been
appointed head -of the newly created
legal department of the Illinois Feder­
ation of Labor. In the Seattle conven­
tion of three years ago a resolution
was passed favoring the establishing
of such bureaus, Illinois being the
first to take action.
representation, valuable as it would
be, is not sufficient to protect and.
promote the rights and welfare of the
workers of all countries. A Pan
American federation of labor is not
only possible, but is necessary. It will
constitute a ready and fit agency for
injecting into international delibera­
tions at opportune and critical times
consideration for human rights, in­
terests and welfare.
"In view of the importance of this
purpose, it is most gratifying to find
that the representatives from the
state of Yucatan are to travel
through the countries of Central and
South America for the purpose of
promoting a Pan-American federa­
tion of labor. The purpose of their
mission has our most sympathetic
and hearty co-operation. The realisa­
tion of an international alliance be­
tween the labor movements of all
Pan-American
countries will consti­
tute a genuine parliament of men,
one of the highest purposes to which
mankind has aspired.
"It is earnestly hoped that the rep­
resentatives of all organized workers
in Pan-America will come into and
continue correspondence with the
undersigned.
Good Will of the Masses.
SOCIETY
Harmany and Laborers' Cause
Are Aims of Mexican and
American Unionists.
LACK OF INFORMATION
HAS CAUSED TROUBLE
Pan-American Labor Movement
Sxpected to Develop from
Conferences Held.
WASHINGTON, July 15.—Last
Monday representatives of the Ameri­
can- and Mexican trade union move­
ments met in this city and pledged
their faith to international harmony
and the workers' cause.- It was the
first meeting of its kind evesr held.
Those present, and who signed the
declaration embodying*"'these yiews,
were the executive iqoyncii of the
American Federation of Labor and
the following representatives of the
Mexican workers: C. Loveira, Balta
zar Pages, L. N. Morones S. Gonzalo
Garcia and EdmufidcT'JD. "Martinez.
The meeting was the. outgrowth of
a suggestion made hy President
Gompers to the Mexican trade union
movement, several WTv'iks ago, that a
conference be held at El Paso, Texas,
between representatives' of the work­
ers of both countries for' the purpose
of discussinjg questions of mutual in­
terest and strengthening fraternal
ties.
Later it was decided to meet in*
Washington. The first Conference,
July, 1, was devoted chiefly to ex­
planations and discussion necessary to
mutual understanding.:!' The follow­
ing Monday practical "suggestions for
immediate problems
were
aa
'considered
and declarations approved and signed
by the representatives
"It is an unavoidable, conclusion,"
declared these workers in their
signed statement,, "that, present dif­
ferences between the •lJnlt»d States
and Mexico are the result of mis­
understanding growing out of inade­
quate or incorrect information," and
that relations between, .the United
States and Mexico ^^IWPitoulated a
national attitude that questions the
good faith of our governments that
existing agencies, and methods of
reaching
adjustment of these dif­
ferences 'are unsuitable for dealing
with these problems whicJv are.
damental hujnan problems, and ttat
the relations betweei^ .our countries
ought not to be directed- in accord
with abstract standards of justice
but ought to be keenly sensitive and
responsive to-the
human-interest
and
'moral forces."
The conference urged upon their
respective governments "the appoint­
ment of a comirtissiontobe composed
of high-minded citiztens.fully repre­
sentative of our nations, to consider
differences: that have brought our na­
tions to the verge of war and to make'
such recommendationsfc- adjust­
ment as Bhall fitly' express the highest
ideals of the great rank and file of
the citizenship of our two countries."
It was agreed that copies of this
declaration be presented to Presi­
dent Wilson and to General Carranza
and that it be given widestpuDlictt*
among the workers Of both .countries.
It was also Agreed that another
conference should be held, in which
the workers would. be ropr,- generally
represented, for the purPOSe of^agree­
ing upoa plans for maintaining per­
manent relations and fos the federa­
tion of the labor movements of the
western hemisphere.
As present conditions preclude an
immediate .meeting ~of this: character
it was decided to for
ego holding same
until later in the -"ysar^ unless an
emergency arises ''which would make
a general conference of advantage in
averting an international crisis."
To c«,rry this plan, into: effect a
joint commission is...to.,be chosen of
Continued on 'Fige T.
critical there came to our country:
two representatives of "the govern­
ment of Yucatan, Mr. Carlos Loveirt,
chief of the Department of Labor,
and Mr. Baltazar. Pages, editor of the
Voice of the Revolution, bringing an
appeal to the worklngmen of our
country to use their influence in the
interest of peace and justice' between
our countries. At the some time,. in
response to an invitation from the
American Federation of Labor, the
organized labor movement of Mexico
sent as representatives to Washing­
ton for the purpose of holding a.con­
ference Mr. Luis N. Morones, Mr. S.
Gonzalo Garcia and Mr. Edmundo E.
Martinez.
"During the recent past,, through
personal representatives of the Mexi­
can government and information
gained from others in close contact
with conditions in Mexico,
it
alist
"Just as the situation between the
United States and Mexico was most when important decisions of national
becamel
plain to us that the'^ revolution in
Mexico represented the c£use of hu­
manity and democracy and that the
Constitutionalist government repre­
sented a genuine effort on the-part of
the Mexicans to establish institutions
of freedom and justice. -The 'Ameri­
can Federation of Labor made an ap­
peal to the President of the! United
States
to
recojrnise tLe Constitution­
government
of Mexico.
"It has sincV on severkl occasions,
The worttnc class movement to
be joiMt
effective must
be conducted
by the workers themselves in the in­
terest of the worker*. It will not
be
dominated by the so-called in*
tellectuals or bntters-ln.- Gompen.
TWO CENTS.
Policemen and Firemen Are Held
"Employes" Under Minne­
sota Compensation Law. 'y
FAMILIES MAY RECOVER
IF EMPLOYE IS KILLED
Benefit Due Workman's Widow
Will Be No Barrier In Obtain­
ing Other Compensation.
Henceforth in the state of Minne­
sota a policeman and a fireman will
be known as "employes," within the
meaning prescribed by the Workmen's
Compensation Act. In case such a
man is killed in the discharge of his
duties, he may recover under the pro­
visions of the law. The fact that he
may be entitled to a benefit from a
fund maintained by an association
composed of fellow workeds will not
bar his family from recovering. These'
facts were established by a ruling by
the state supreme court of Minne­
sota last Friday.
Neil Mooney, New Duluth patrol­
man, was shot and killed while at­
tempting to make an arrest three
years ago last January and his de­
pendents brought an action in the
district court to recover compensa­
tion from the city. The city contend­
ed that it was not liable,- but Judge
Fesler of the trial court held that the
compensation act applied. He is up­
held by the higher tribunal.
Police Are 'Employes."
The supreme court holds in the
Mooney case that a policeman is a
person in the service of the city and
one not apointed for a regular term
of office. The city's contention was
that he' was an "officer" and not
an "employe" within the meaning of
the statute.
'The question ts not Whether a po­
liceman is an officer or an official,"
the cpurt states, but whether he is
an 'official' elected or appointed for a
regular term of office. Clearly-he is
.not. Under-the Duluth charter po­
licemen receive their office by appoint­
ments under civil service rules! They
hold office during good behavior.
There is no term at all. Manifestly
this is not att apointment for a reg-,
ular term of oCice."
Fred E. Granzow, first assistant fire
chief, was killed on Sept. Id, 191F.
.while ma^inf: & run to a fire. Hi®.
widoiri :Mrs. Dorothea fL P. 'Grin*Ow.'
and lO-jrear-old daughter, bdtfc de*%
pendents, brought suit to recover cpEft
pensatlon from the city under the'
workmen's compensation law. The
trial court held that the city'was liable
and the case1was appealed. The su­
preme -coprt holds that the same'rule
applies to the Granzow case as in the
Mooney case.
Benefits no Barrier.
Another question which was raised
in the' Granzow case which did not
enter into the Mooney case was
whether or not the fact Granzow was
a member of the": p,Ultith. Firemen's
Relief association an& that his de
pendets draw benefits therefrom
would bar recovery of compensation
or reduce the amount they would be
entitled to receive.
Judge Dancer held thht the receipt
of funds from the association did not
bar the defendants from recovering
full benefits under the workmen's
compensation act and'he is also up­
held by the highest tribunal.
'We are of the opinion," the su­
preme court states, "that the fireman
who joins and contributes to the funds
of this association should be held to
have purchased the protection which
the association affords, for the bene­
fit of himself and his family, and not
for the benefit of his employer."
Other Cases Decided.
The supreme court also handed
down decisions in other cases affecting
the workmen's compensation law. In
a St. Louis county case the court held
that the monthly contributions of a
Coattained on Pas* 2.
policies affecting the United States -,
and Mexico were in balance, been the
instrumentality through which the
desires of the masses of the people
have been expressed, and further
time and opportunity afforded to
Mexico for understanding. our na­
tional attitude and demonstrating
good will and good faith on her part..
Labor Enforces Peace.
"Becaus of this historic relation "it
was felt that a conference between
representatives of the labor move-/
ment of Mexico and representatives
of the American Federation of Labor
would be a direct means by which
the masses of the people of bbth
countries could wield an Influence
that would counteract the influence
of financial powers and those who
were willing to precipitate Interna-:
tlonal conflicts for their own ag
graniicement.
"At this conference,. held in Wash­
ington between the representatives of
the Mexican*'labor movement and the
Executive -Council of- the American
Federation of Labor, a declaration
was signed by* all parties to the con­
ference. This declaration, in addition
to provisions which concerned Im­
mediate relations between our two?
countries, provided for future con-.
ferences between representatives, of
both countries and declared, in favor
5
1
