VOL. LVIH- NO. 169
POPULATION 28 219
AoO
NORWICH, CONN.,. SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1916
SIXTEEN PAGES 112 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in NorvTs Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Spectacular Artillery Bombardment Took Place
Before Dawn
FOLLOWED BY SUCCESSFUL INFANTRY CHARGES
Advance Over Four Mile Front Brings British in Line With
French Fighting of Heaviest Character Germans Re
capture Bazentin by Furious Attack and Then Again
Driven Out by British Infantry Fierce Fighting on the
Stokhod Continues and Bombardment an Belgian Front
May Mean Approaching Drive.
After the briefest preliminary bom
bardment -which has preceded any
important action on the western front
the British armies on the Somme have
attain swept forward and have cap
tured several important German sec
ond positions. On a front of four
miles the British hiive advanced to a
depth of a mile and have held all po
sitions gained in spite of violent
counter-attacks.
British Line Straightened.
The strategic importance of the
British succesr.s is marked by the
straightening of their line in conform
ity with that of the French, who had
hitherto advanced at a much great
er speed than their allies. The
brevity of the preliminary bombard
ment, coupled with the statements of
press correspondents at the front that
the British losses were "omparatively
rma.ll, lend strong- support to unoffi
cial statements that the German sec
ond line was much less strongly forti
fied than their first defences.
Bombardment On Belgian Front.
On the French portion of t. ? Somme
front no action of importance was
recorded but in the French official
statement for Friday it was announc
ed that the bombardment of German
positions on the Belgian front had
reached a point of the greatest in
tensity This announcement receives
nddiiional :-ign;;icance as for more
than a week the Belgians have report
ed a persistent and destructive bom
bardment directed against the Ger
man fortifications. These announce
ments were similar to those made by
t ho British preceding the opening of
their great offensive and may possi
bly indicate that another big forward
movement by the allies may be at
tempted at the extreme western end
of the battle line.
No German Offense Reported.
Another point of significance in the
day's official war reports is that the
only actions reported on the Verdun
front were assaults made by the
French. These assaults were noted
in the German official statement
which made no claims of any Ger
man offensive action.
Still Battling on Stokhod.
On the Russian front the great bat
tle on the Stokhod is still raging with
the issue remaining in the balance.
The most important news from the
Russian side is in regard to the op
erations in the Caucasus. The Grand
Duke Nicholas reports continued and
substantial successes against the
Tuiks and is apparently launching an
other great offensive in the region of
Erzerum and Baiburt. aimed at the
v;ry heart of the Turkish empire. A
successful Russian advance along this
line would cut off the Turkish armies
ic the south and again place Bagdad
in Jeopardy.
CURTAIN OF FIRE
BEFORE THE DAWN
Then the British Infantry Charged on
German Second Lines.
British Front in France, July 14, 11
a. n., via London, 7:33 p. m. Even
the phlegmatic British generals and
generals and staff officers are showing
elation over the results this morning
of the night attack against the Ger
man second line, although being care
ful to state that the great task against
a powerful foe is only barely started.
Soon after daylight the joyful news of
the British success slipped into a tel
ephone message ocer the area occu
pied by the British army.
Within 20 Yards of Second Line.
As a spectacle to an eye-witness,
this action of the second big stage of
the battle of the Somme surpassed
:hat of July 1. Taking needed ground
for organizing new trenches and
throwing out small parties, who dug
themselves in, the army had been
gradually gaining a position from
.'Jvillers, La Boisselle and Montauban,
:i distance of four miles, from which
to deliver a blow and until many
points were within 200 yards of the
German second line. Meanwhile the
shells of the British artillery could be
seen cutting the wire and making
thorough preparations of which Gener
al Sir Douglas Haig, the British com
mander insists there is evidence on
every hand.
At Three In the Morning.
"Tomorrow morning at three," came
the laconio word yesterday evening,
"preceded by the -usual intensive pre
liminary bombardment, only a little
hotter."
The ground gained by the British on
July 1 and in subsequent operations
gave The Associated Press Observe
a viewpoint from where the whole line
of attack could be seen. The faint
moonlight enabled the gunners to dim
ly s.ee their work, the infantry and
the contour of the ground. "This is a
real daylight-saving show," said one
af the gunners.
Greatest Concentration of Guns.
Seemingly, as the observer pushed
audaciously closer to the German line,
there was th greatest concentration of
guns of all calibres probably ever
made in a given area. From behind
the German, trenches gained on. July 1'
darted the dagger flashes through a
blanket oC night One! two! three!
tourl tor' the battery -was shooting at
bighvB'p0Bd, from' the ' bottom v of the
MlIfiJl?Ltqe..tPJl. -The; scene. of
tiilery power was no less indescribable
than the thrilling suggestion of the
waiting infantry battalion lines which
were seen going into position lefore
the battle.
First Wave of Infantry.
At the moment the assaijlt started it
seemed there was no interval in their
thunders as the guns moved forward
thair curtain of shell-bursts in front
of the first wave of infantry ad
vancing across the zone between their
trenches and the German lines.
Signals by Rocket and Candie.
In the direction of Longueval a big
the was seen. It was the village or
a storehouse burning as the bright
spot was growing to a steady point in
the field of gun flashes. Then scar
ing heavenward, went a rocket signal
light which gave the positions gaiied
in the attack. Commanders in the
rear answ3red with other signals while
what had been the German stronghold
half an hour or an Hour before were
burning red patches spread wit hthe
sparks of Roman candles. This method
of communication is a difficult part of
the business of directing an army
under cover of darkness.
Air Craft Up at Dawn.
At the first flush of dawn the first
British aeroplane came humming from
its aerodome toward the German lines
and the sausage shaped observation
balloon rose together into the air in a
vague scene of oblong and grotesgue
monitors.
Out of the blanket where the guns
were flashing rose the white slashes of
the maize of old German trenches, the
ribons were roads and finally the dark
masses became Marnetz and other paw
fa mous woods and the gaunt fing
er points the trunks of trees, which
had shaded the highways, but were
now denuded of limbs by hte shell fire.
British Gain the Ridge.
While the smoke barages from the
British lines were carried by favorable
winds and th eshells made other points
of the line indistint the ridge of Long
ueval. where the British burrowed
forward against commnading positions
and a stubborn .cunning and brave foe,
were seen distinctly to be in their
possession. More lines of troops were
moving through the German curtains
of shell fire to the support of those
who had gained the hotly desired
summit and were now looking down
hill where the German guns were hid
den and with the Bapaume Ridge in
the distance. Behind the mall was the
organization which had plotted the ac
tion of the army and back of those
were battalions awaiting their orders.
A sergeant of artillery, of the typi
cal ruddy-faced "John Bull" type sit
ting stiff on his horse after a sleep
less night directing the columns of
caissons, hurrying up ammunition to
the greedy guns, called out:
"Mind your wheel horse! Now all
together like I taught you to do!"
The wheels with their padded and
noiseless axles went up the embank
ment with every rider urging his
straining mount.
NEW IRISH BILL
DEMANDED BY REDMOND
Nationalist Leader Again Charges
Naked Coercion.
London, July 14, 7:52 p. in. John
Redmond, leader of the Irish Nation
alists, today again took up his charge
against the Marquis of Lansdowne in
another statement in which he de
mands the prompt production of the
new Irish Mil in order to settle the dis
puted points between himself and Lord
Lansdowne. The Irish leader in his
statement says:
"With regard o the declaration of
Lord Lansdowne, in his speech of a
policy of naked coercion in Ireland, I
am loath to believe that it represents
a deliberate decision of the cabinet,
but I repeated that such a policy can
meet with nothing but repudiation,
condemnation and apposition on the
part of the Irish party.
Submarine Ready For Return Cargo.
Baltimore, Md., July 14. The last
case of dyestuffs, composing the
Deutschland's cargo, was lifted out
about 9 a. m. The steveodores at
once set about making the hold ready
for the return cargo of nickel and
crude rubber, which has been stored
in the warehouse on the pier for sev
eral weeks. The work of putting the
cargo aboard was expected to begin
before nightfall.
Claims Ranch Was Confiscated.
Washington, July 14. Special Agent
Rodgers. at Mexico City, was instruct
ed by the State Department today to
investigate a complaint made by Mrs.
Phoebe Hearst that her ranch in
Mexico had been confiscated by the de
facto government.
President on Week End Cruise.
Washington, July 14. President
"Wilson left -Washington late this aft
ernoon on the Mayflower for a week
end cruise cown the Potomac and
Chesapeake Bay. He was accomp
anied by Mrs. Wilson and a party of
their -relatives. He expects to return
early- Monday morning.
Beacon Falls, Conn., July 14. May
Tubberia, a young child, .died" here to
day of Infantile paralysis. The child
was.utfsenjiil yesterday;. ' v '---. V-
Cabled Paragraphs
Note to Neutral Governments.
London, July 14, 11.45 p. m. The
British foreign office addressed a note
to neutral governments today explain
ing the reasons which prompted the
abandonment of the declaration of
London. The declaration was abro
gated by an order in council publish
ed on July S and a similar decree was
issued in Paris on the same day.
GERMAN RESERVES
SEEMED INSUFFICIENT
British Artillery Power Thrilling
Fighting of Heaviest Character.
London, July 14, 11.25 p. m. Ap
propriately, on the day of the French
national fete when every Londoner
wore his buttonhole a t'ri-color rib
bon i nhonor of his allies, came the
stirring news of a successful attack
on the German second line which open
ed before dawn and carried a num
ber of new positions.
Surpassed Attack of July 1.
The Associated Press correspond
ent at the front describes the at
tack as surpassing that of July 1 as
a great spectacle and thrilling displty
of artillery power. Characteristic of
the fighting throughout the battle of
the fcomme. the Germans appeared to
be unable to bring up sufficient re
serves to make successful counter-at- I
tacks. A second point, which is em
phasized by observers on the allies
side, is, that in the fighting at close
range, the Germans surrendered free
ly. Germans Driven Out of Vii'age.
Despatches from General Sir Doug
las Haig and from the press corres
pondents show that the fighting has
again been of the heaviest character.
At one point the Germans, by a fu
rious counter-attack, succeeded in
driving the British out of Bazentin
Ie Petit. They were immediately
thrown out again by a British infan
try attack and the village remained
firmly in British possession.
T'ue .ay's fighting resulted in a
steady ir crease i.i British gains, leav
ing them ii possession of the enemy's
second position from Bazojitin le Pe
tit tc Longueval, both inclusive, and
the v. hole of Trones 'Wood. A number
of prisoners were taken, including two
cnlone's tr.n other superior officers.
According to press correspondents the
fighting was continuing hotly late to
dav. Small Losses For British.
Bitter fighting was proceeding in
the afternoon in the woods beyond
Loneueval and on high points of a
ridge occupied b the British during
the day. According to the corres
pondents the British suffered compar
atively small losses in the day's tight-
Germans Threatened at Pozieres.
The positions gained today leave the
Germans seriously threatened at
Pozieres. on the main road from Al
bert to Fapaume. while possessions of
the territory around Longueval brings
the British advance into line with the
T rench at rii.rdec-nurt.
Further heavy British casualty lists
issued today give the names of 104
officers killed. 311 wounded and 1,750
men killed and wounded.
Russians Drive Back Turks.
The center of interest on the Rus
sian front continues in the Caucas
us, where the Russians are maintain
ing their successes asrainst the Turks.
Fighting in the Stokhod has relapsed
into trench warfare but west of the
Stripa. in furious Austrian counter
attacks, ti.. Russians have taK'r an
other 12 .0 prisoners.
QUARANTINE STRICT
AGAINST CHILD PARALYSIS
New York Death Roll is Now 342
Adrenalin Being Used.
New York, July 14. 4Medical ex
perts battling against the epidemic of
infantile paralysis, which has cost -"42
lives in this city, expressed divergent
viewis today upon the efficicacy of in
jections of adrenalin in the spine as
a remedy for the disease, recommend
ed by Dr. S. J. Meltzer of the Rocke
feller Institute.
Health Commissioner Emerson an
nounced tonight that physicians who
use adrenalin must do so on their own
responsibility. Only after hundreds of
cases had been treated and the sup
posed remedy had been fully tested,
he declared, could its merits be def
initely determined.
Federal health experts were more
optimistic. They are giving close at
tention to the use of adrenalin and
have observed, it was stated that pa
tients have been helped in some in-,
stances, but they are unwilling at
present to predict its potency as a
cure.
Persons eager to get their children
out of the city are finding it increas
ingly difficult. Many tried to do so
today and failed for the quarantine
against the city is growing more strict.
Health officials in towns adjacent to
New York are using the utmost vig
ilance. First Case in Norwalk.
Norwalk, Conn., July 14. A case of
infantile paralysis, the first in the
city, was reported to the health au
thorities today. It is that of a three
year old girl from Brooklyn, N. Y.,
who has been ill since last Sunday in
a congested section of the city.
The board of health today issued an
order excluding from local theatres all
children under 16 years of age and is
considering issuing another order to
keep them away from Sunday schools,
churches and the vacation schools now
in session.
Recently the board refused to allow
any more excursion parties from New
York to land at local shore resorts and
has placed quarantine restrictions on
a score of families from New York
and vicinity, who have come here with
small children.
100 Cases Outside N ew York City.
Albany, N. Y., July 14. Since the
infantile paralysis epidemic began in
June, one hundred cases and eight
deaths in sections of the state outside
of Greater New York have been re
ported to the state department of
health according to official announce
ment tonight. Ten- new cases and one
death were reported during the day.
Two Cases In Chicago.
Chicago, 111., July 14. Two new cas
es of infantile paralysis bringing the
total number in Chicago up to ten
were reported today.
Meteor Falls on Arkansas Farm.
(Hot . Springs, Ark., July 14. A, me
teor, the urrburjed part of which. Is as
large as a five room- house, haa fallen
.on a farm twenty miles -west of Hot
Springs. Farmers today - were afraid
ot approach.it because, of gasesand
okbtWdJiyjsjiweJaElnSiJ r -
ig Collier Sinks
off Charleston
HECTOR DISABLED IN HURRI
CANEUNABLE TO MAKE PORT
CREW TOOK TO BOATS
High Sea Running and Fate of the
Small Craft in Jeopardy Steamer
Alamo Responded to Wireless Calls
for Help Sixty Marines Aboard.
Charleston, S. C, July 14. The big
naval collier Hector, carrying sixty
marines in addition to her crew of 70
men and 12 officers, sank off Charles
ton late today, according to a report
tonight from Captain Hunt of the tug
Vigilant, which tried to go to the Hec-
HE EMPLOYED WOMAN
Environment and training originally made the woman "the con
server" and man "the producer." Now the entrance of woman into
the world of business has made her a "producer" as well as a "con
server." She has learned more about conservation by knowing more about
production. The appeal of values is strong within her, and her busi
ness instinct has been sharpened so that she acts quickly on sugges
tion. When you want to tell the business woman about your mercandiz
ing suggest bargains and possible buying advantages for her put
your story in the morning newspaper, where she will see it before her
brain is fagged by tension.
She has little time to read during business hours; and if she does
relax and follow the trend of world events on her way home in train
or trolley, she does not pause in her journey to respond to your sug
gestion or appear.
Your message in the morning newspaper will be read and inspire
purchasing action when the busy woman has a breathing spell prob
ably at lunch time. In Norwich see that your business story is in The
Bulletin, which progressive women read.
During the past week the following matter appeared in The Bul
letin's columns:
Bulletin Telegraph Local General Total
Saturday, July 8.. 172 162 1395 1729
Monday, July 10.. 138 145 255 538
Tuesday, July 11.. 156 127 180 463
Wednesday, July 12.. 190 132 152 474
Thursday, July 13., 172 163 283 61S
Friday, July 14.. 190 114 147 451
Totals 1018
tor's assistance. He was unable to
say whether those aboard escaped.
The steamer Alamo had been standing
by the collier today, having responded
to her calls when she was disabled
some sixty miles off here in last
night's hurricane. Static conditions
were such that no wireless report
could be obtained tonight from the
Alamo. The sea still was running
high.
The Hector left Port Royal for San
to Domingo yesterday. She attempt
ed to -put into port here when the
storm disabled her. but, according to
Captain Hunt, went down about 9 1-2
miles from the Charleston lightship.
Captain Hunt said part of the collier's
superstructure remained above water.
The Hector displaced 11,200 tons, 384
feet long and was built at Sparrow's
Point, Md., in 1908.
Charleston, S. C, July 14. Officials
at the navy yard here late tonight an
nounced that the crew of the naval
collier Hector, reported sunk off here,
had been taken off in smail boats. A
wireless message, it was said, had
been sent out asking all vessels to
watch for the boats.
COLONEL GLENN TRANSFERRED
Removed From General Staff to Com
mand of 18th Infantry.
Washington July 14. The war de
partment made public today an order
detaching Colonel Edwin F. Glenn,
chief of staff in the east under Major
General Leonard Wood from the gene
ral staff and assigning him to com
mand of the Eighteenth Infantry.
He will relieve Colonel James R.
Rodgers. who is oreder to remain un
assigned. Colonel Glenn's transfer created
some comment, as he has been on his
present duty only two years, although
regular touch for staff duty is four
years. The order states that it is is
sued "by direction of the president."
Secretary Baker said in explanation
that all available officers were being
sent to the border and that Colonel
Glenn's services were needed as a reg
imental commander. Major General
Scott, chief of staff, and Adjutant
General McCain refused to comment
on the order.
New York State Arsenal Burned.
New York, July 14. One man was
killed and several firemen were over
come 'by smoke in a fire which swept
the New York state arsenal at Sev
enth Avenue and Thirty Fifth street
late today. Large quantities of mil
itary equipment for the national guard
was destroyed. The loss in equip
ment was estimated at $500,000. The
cause of the fire, which started in
the carpenter shop, has not been de
termined. $35,000 Pay for Connecticut Troops.
Hartford, Conn., July 14. Under
orders' from Adjutant General Cole,
Captain Olcott of the quartermaster's
department, left today for Nogales,
Ariz., to pay the Connecticut troops
there approximately $35,000, an
amount due them for the first ten
days of service following the issuing
of the mobilization.
Closing in on Bandits.
Chihuahua City, Mexico, July 14.
General Matias Ramos, directing the
government forces operating against
Villa bandits in southern Chihuahua,
is rerdisposing his troops -preparatory
to a quick drive in an effort to break
the outlaw's power in that section.
General Jacinto Trevino, military
commander of the - northeast, made
Clarke Named for
Supreme Bench
WILSON NOMINATES CLEVELAND
MAN AS ASSOCIATE JUSTICE.
TAKES HUGHES' PLACE
Prompt Confirmation of Appoint
ment by the Senate Expected Nom
inee a Democrat and Identified With
Ohio Publio Life.
"Washington, July 14. John Hessin
Clarke, federal district judge at Cleve
land, Ohio, was nominated by Presi
dent Wilson today as an associate jus
tice of the supreme court to fill the
vacancy caused by the resignation of
Charles Evans Hughes, to accept the
843
2412 4273
republican nomination for the presi
dency. Prompt confirmation of the appoint
ment by the senate is expected.
A call for a meeting of the judiciary
committee for Monday to consider it
was issued tonight. Two years ago
the senate confirmed the nomination
of Mr. Clarke as district judge, after
an investigation had disposed of sug
gestions that his service as counsel
for a railroad might have impaired
his usefulness as a jurist.
Judge Clarke is a democrat and for
years was identified with progressive
movements in Ohio, being associated
with thelate Tom Johnson, Newton
D. Baker, now secretary of war, and
other leaders of the party in his state.
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS
START IMPORTANT SYSTEM
Collecting Checks to Facilitate Trans
fer of Money.
New York. July 14. To facilitate
transfer of money from- one part of
the country to another, the federal re
serve banks will inaugurate tomorrow
their ountry-wide system of collecting
bank checks. This development of the
reserve system is regarded as second
in importance only to the opening of
the twelve reserve banks in November,
1914.
HUGHES' STUMPING TOUR
He Will Strike" Detroit First On Au
gust 7.
Bridgehampton, N. Y., July 14. Five
of the twelve cities where Charles E.
Hughes will deliver speeches on his
transcontinental trip had been select
ed tentatively tonight. The are: De
troit, August 7; Chicago, probably Au
gust 8; St. Paul or Minneapolis, prob
ably August or 10; San Francisco and
Los Angeles, with dates yet to be an
nounced. PATROLLING AT NOGALES
Troop A the First Connecticut Men
Called for This Duty.
Nogales. Ariz., July 14. Forty pick
ed men from Troop A, New Haven,
Conn., Fifth Militia Cavalry, Captain
Wolf commanding, are camped about
the city of Nogales tonight guarding
the import buildings and transporta
tion lines and doing patrol duty along
the Mexican border. Troop A is the
first Connecticut organization to be
called into this kind of service.
Oppose War Revenue Tax on Movies.
Chicago, July 14. Delegates to the
convention of the Motion Picture Ex
hibitors League of America voted to
day to send telegrams to senators and
representatives in congress protesting
against the proposed government war
revenue tax on moving .picture thea
tres. A resolution federalizing the allied
branches of the motion picture indus
try was adopted.
More Paralysis in Massachusetts.
Boston, July 14. A case of Infan
tile iparalysis at Holyoke, two new
cases at New Bedford and a second
case at Lawrence were reported to
day. Two Sick in Colorado.
Denver, Col., July 14. Two cases of
infantile paralysis in Colorado were
reported to the state . public health
Condensed Telegrams
New York's hot spell was broken by
a heavy rainstorm.
The Montreal Stock Exchange will
remain closed tomorrow.
Fire caused $10,000 damage to the
Hotel Raleigh, at Atlantic City.
Marquis Ishii has been appointed
Japanese ambassador to Russia.
The Bank of England released 7-5,-000
(pounds in sovereigns to Egypt.
A membership of the New York
Cotton Exchange was sold for $14,
250. Plans to bring about the adjourn
ment o.f congress by Aug. 15 are being
made.
The rate of discount of the Bank of
England was raised from five to six
per cent.
A park exclusively for the use of
women was established by Kansas
City, Mo.
Traffic at Havana docks has been
tied up by a strike of the truck driv
ers' union.
James Sant, late principal painter-in-ordinary
to Queen Victoria, died at
London, aged 96.
German newspapers assert that 80
submarines of the Deutschland class
are now building.
Japan's naval program provides
$125,000,000 and construction of four
super-dreadnaughts.
Property of the Standard Oil Co. at
Whiting, Ind., wash damaged to the
extent of $250,000 by fire.
The American Linseed Oil Co. ad
vanced the price of linseed oil one
cent a gallon to 70 cents.
Seventeen hundred strong, the Third
Regiment of Infantry left Camp Whit
man, N. Y., fror Pharr, Texas.
Gold to the amount of $800,000 was
withdrawn from the New York Sub
Treasury for shipment to Cuba.
Boston's hospitals were crowded
with heat prostration victims. The
thermometer registered 92 degrees.
Rosa Luxemberg, principal editor of
the Socialist newspaper Vorwaerts,
was arrested at her home in Berlin.
A seat on the New York Stock Ex
change was sold for $63,000, a decrease
of $2,000 from the iast previous sale.
The War Department has spent $14,
300,000 for clothing and equipment
purchased during the present mobili
zation. President Wilson authorized Secre
tary of War Baker to establish imme
diately the aeroplane reserve corps of
the army.
An additional $3,000,000 in gold from
Canada was received at the New York
Sub-Treasury consigned to J. P. Mor
gan & Co.
Mrs. Annie Besant, one of the lead
ers of the movement for Home Rule in
India, has been prohibited from en
tering Bombay.
A London report says that the city
of Madrid, Spain, has been declared
in a state of siege, as a result of the
railway strike.
Nothing has been heard from the
steamer Ramos, Philadelphia for Car
tagena, which sent cut distress sig
nals Wednesday.
Elbert H. Gary, chairman of the
United States Steel Corporation, sail
ed from Vancouver for China and Ja
pan on a vacation.
Bringing a cargo of 1,600 tons of
Spanish onions, the French steamer
VUle du Havre arrived at New York
from Spanish ports.
Ohio's artillery division of the Na
tional Guard has been presented with
a $100,000 observation balloon by an
Ohio Rubber company.
Edward Higgens, American consul
at Stuttgart, whose unneutral acts had
been protested by Germany, was trans
ferred to Bahia, Brazil.
The destroyer tender Panther and
the destroyer Flusser, Walke, Sterrett,
and Lawson were withdrawn from
duty in Mexican waters.
Miss Mary E. Melton, a missionary
of the American Methodist Episcopal
church in Japan since 1S79, died at
Nagasaki of typhoid fever.
Heine's sausage and meat curing
factory at Halberstadt, Germany, one
of the largest concerns of the kind in
Germany, was destroyed by fire.
A meeting of the Chicago Title &
Trust Co. will be held on August 22,
to decide on increasing the capital
stock from $5,600,000 to $7,000,000.
The Central Hudson Gas & Electric
Co., which supplies light and power to
the city of Poughkeepsie, N. Y., was
completely crippled by the heavy
storm.
Gov. Whitman will not, for the pres
ent, call a special session of the leg
islature for the purpose of providing
funds for the National Guard ex
penses. William H. Wallace, Jr., from the
New York Stock Exchange, has been
suspended for one year, and John J.
Kelly, his partner, for six days, for
illegal trading.
Guillermo Reyes, suspected of be
ing member of a conspiracy to over
throw Carranza, was arrested at Vera
Cruz, when he landed from the Span
ish steamer Alfonso.
Senator O'Gorman of New York
asked President Wilson to have Am
bassador Page at London intervene
informally in an effort to secure com
mutation of Sir Roger Casement's
death sentence.
Forty Georgia watermelons were
cut in the rooms of the house com
mittee on interstate and foreign com
merce. Chairman A damson contrib
uted to an early adjournment of the
lower body when he announced on the
floor that all members were invited to
attend the cutting.
Another Yale Battery Off.
New Haven, Conn., July 15. Bat
tery C of the Yale Battalion, Tenth
Militia Field Artillery, left tonight for
-SSSSSfc- Gaining camp.
U. S. GOOD WILL PLEASES CARRANZA
"We Will be Able to Avoid War," First Chief
Says
BUT HE WOULD BE
Some Reforms in Operation Already and Speedy Incorpora
tion of Others in Constitution of Mexico Presidential
Election Immediately After Reconstruction is Accomp
lished and Peace Prevails, Progress of Negotiations Satisfactory.
Mexico City, July 14. General Car
ranza in an interview today said that
the status of the negotiations with
Washington was very satisfactory as
the result of the good will shown to
each other by Mexico and the United
States.
"Thanks to this feeling of good will,"
the first chief continued, "we will be
able to avoid war. War is something
I do not desire, but if there were no
other remedy for the situation, I would
enter upon it."
General Carranza, however, refused
to discuss the situation as it relates
to the possible action of President
Wilson or of the Latin-American na
tions which offered to mediate in the
trouble between the United States and
Mexico. Within a short time, the first
chief said, there would be incorporated
in the constitution of Mexico all the
reforms which now find a place in the
program of the constitutionalists. In
GREAT FOREST FIRE
DESTROYS GREEK PALACE
King Constantine Weeps at Sight of
Immense Devastation.
Paris, July 14. 5 p. m. A wireless
despatch from Athens today describes
the destruction of the summer palace
of King Constantine and the burning
of the forest of Tatoi, in which the
palace stood. The king, says the des
patch, escaped in an automobile from
a dangerous position where he was
directing the foresters endeavoring tc
extinguish the fire which had started
in the woods. The motor in which
the king approached the burning dis
trict had been surrounded by flames
and he darted on foot through the
inger zone, reaching another auto
mobile and got away in safety.
Many persons were caught by the
flames and perished, among them sev
eral army officers. The forest, which
was the largest in Greece, was entire
ly burned over. The total loss from
the flames, exceeds 40,000,000 francs.
It is suspected that the fire start
ed from the carlelessness of wander
ing vagabonds in throwing a ciga
rette stub into dry brush wood, tho
countryside being dried out by lack
of rain and intense heat.
The pavilion of Queen Mother Olga
and the palace of the Crown Prince
were destroyed and also it is feared,
te tonjb of King George..
King Constantine shed tears at the
sight of the devastation wrought by
the flames.
CERTIFICATES OF DEPARTURE
FOR TRAVELING CHILDREN
Advised in Case of Transit Through
New York City.
Washington, July 14. To save trav
elers from inconvenience on account
of the restrictions which many cities
and states have placed upon the move
ments of children from New York city
because of the infantile paralysis epi
demic, the United States public health
service today issued the following ad
vice: "All persons accompanied by chil
dren under the age of 16 years who
contemplate a journey which necessi
tates transit through New York city
are advised to provide themselves with
certificates stating their place of de
parture. If this is not done inconven
ience and even delay may result, as
many cities in the absence of proof,
make no distinction between children
actually residing in New York city
and those who merely are in transit
through that locality. These certifi
cates should be secured from the
health officer at the place of depar
ture and may be presented to any in
spection officer as an evidence that
the holder does not come from the in
fected district."
HARTFORD STUDENT HIT
HIGH TENSION WIRE
Severely Shocked and Burned, But
Recovery Expected.
Bristol, Conn., July 14. Francis Bill
of Hartford,' a college student, who
has been taking inventory at the local
power plant of the Bristol and Plain
ville Tramway company, was severe
ly shocked and burned today by com
ing in contact with a high tension
wire while on the roof of the power
house. The burns are on the upper
part of his body and one leg. He was
taken to a hospital at Hartford. The
physicians believe he has a chance to
recover.
RELIEF OF INTERNED CIVILIANS
Proposals Made in Recent British
Note to Germany.
London, July 14, 6:10 p. in. The
proposals made in the recent British
note to Germany regarding relief for
interned civilians were given to The
Associated Press today by Lord Rob
ert Cecil, minister of war trade, in
substance as follows:
"AH persons above the ages of 50
are to be repatriated by their re
spective countries.
"All persons between the ages of
45 and 50 who are unfit for military
service, also are to be sent home.
"Of the remainder Germany 'and
Great Britain are to intern an equal
number in a neutral country."
Sufficient time has not yet elapsed
for a reply to be received from the
German government.
Steamship Arrivals.
Glasgow, July 13. Arrived: Steam
er Sardinian, Boston.
Copenhagen. July 13. Arrived:
Steamer Oscar II, New York.
London, July 14. Arrived: Steamer
Andania, New -York,
READY TO FIGHT
a large measure, he declared, some of
these reforms already are in operation
and there remains only their incor
poration into the fundamental laws of
the country.
As to the holding of a presidential
election, General Carranza said that it
would take place as soon as the work
of reconstructing the constitution had
been completed and when the country
was completely at peace.
The de facto government, the first
chief asserted, will pass a law of am-.
nesty so that all Mexicans who have
left the country for one reason or an
other can return if they desire. Such
a law, however, he said, would not be
promulgated as long as the govern
ment was not on a firm basis, for
the reason that among some of the
Mexicans now living abroad there are
those who would return to Mexico to
conduct agitations and disturb laboi
conditions.
DEMOCRATS SEE END
A LONG WAY OFF
Bills Enough on Hand to Keep Sena
tors in Washington for Two Months .
Washington, July 14. Democrats of
the senate will caucus tomorrow night
to consider further the legislative
program for the remainder of the ses
sion. Some democratic senators axe
making urgent appeals for considera
tion of special measures not included
in the imperative program drawn up
by party leaders and democratic and
republican conferees have been unable
to agree formally on what measures
should be disposed of before adjourn
ment. At a joint conference with the dem
ocrats early this week republican sen
ators agreed to a program including
the appropriation, revenue, shipping
and corrupt practices bills. There was
no agreement, however, -on the child
labor, workmen's compensation and
immigration measures and their cham
pions now are insisting that they
should not be deferred until next ses
sion. Other democrats are pressing
'or action on tle vocational education
bill, the suffrage amendment and nu
merous other maters.
Senator Gallinger, the republican
leader, told the senate today that bow
soon an adjournment was reached was
entirely within the hands of the dem
ocrats and that the republicans would
co-operate in completing the program.
Democratic leaders realize that final
passage of the naval and army ap-
propriation bills and the revenue and
shipping measures alone will require
four or five weeks at least and that If ,
many other measures are to be taken
up the idea of an adjournment by .
Sept. 1 must be abandoned. ;
Th 3 house is expected to complete
the entire legislative program suggest-
ed by President Wilson by passage!
tomorrow of the Bucker corrupt prac-
tices bill. i
Until the senate is ready to adjourn
the house will mark time.
NAVAL MILITIA
START OFF TODAY
Nine Battleships Leave for Block Is
land Sound Maneuvers.
Washington, July 14. The annual
practice cruise of the naval militia of
the United States will begin tomorrow
and continue until July 2. On the ;
Atlantic coast nine reserve battleships
carrying the militiamen and under the ;
command of Rear Admiral Helm, will
leave their ports for Block Island
Sound, where manoeuvers under actual
war conditions will be held. ,
The vessels for the eastern organiza
tions will sail from Boston, New York,
Philadelphia and Norfolk and are to
rendezvous at Block Island Monday
morning. They will be manned sixty
per cent, by militiamen and forty per(
cent, by enlisted men o fthe navy and,
will be under command of regular nav-;
al officers.
Careful study has been given to the
arrangements by naval officers in or
der to instruct the militiamen for the !
first time under actual war condi-:
tions.
The total number of militiamen par
ticipating in the battleship cruise will,
be approximately 270 officers and 4,200 '
men.
The battleship Kearsarge has been
assigned to the Massachusetts militia;
and the Virginia to Connecticut, Maine,
Rhode Island and some of the Mass
achusetts units.
NO SCHOOL OF SHARKS
ALONG JERSEY COAST
Only Three or Four Wandered Away
From Gulf Stream.
Washington. July 14. Superintend
ent Cole of the coast guard district
covering the New Jersey coast re
ported today it was his belief that
three or four big sharks had strayed
in from the warm water of the Gulf
Stream and tnat tnere was no large ;
i .... i i , t . n . . n 'i . -i riii thw.hi im
mediate risks, he said, had been avert-
ed bv placing steel nets about the ;
beaches.
Superintendent Cole said any per
sons held the theory that the recent
storm had diverted some of the warm
curfowO wati- of thp Gulf Stream
that the sharks had approached the
shore with it.
Franz Joseph Seriously III.
Zurich, via Paris, July 14, 5:2i5 ip. m.
'Members of the Austrian imperial ,
family have been summoned to 6cho- .
enbrunn owing to the illness of the
emperor Francis Joseph, according to 1
news despatches from Innsbruck. 1
.. 1 : . , t i ... .a, ... I
aged emperor, and the, news of . the war
x is Jjejngwitrmeldfxorttinj '' - J
(
