"wir "vTimwm)vt ttgrn-fmrmierK'.' w
u ' 'J
)
fainting
IJeftger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
mr.
r
vol. rr.-no. 201
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1010.
Certaisnt, 1918, it xna Ftnuo Lmn Coxrira
PKiqU ONE C2SNT
BpiwjRSBawFBiwpwPwwBKi
l
ty..
m,.,, .v. ...,. , ,. , i j?
U,
Exterior view of projected Municipal Auditorium, which is to bo built on tho Parkway. It will occupy the block
Callowhill streets.
BRITISH PUSH TO THIRD LINE;
TAKE 2000 MORE GERMANS;
FRENCH HALT VERDUN DRIVE
Violent Counter-Attacks of Teutons on
Somme IJront Repulsed Berlin
Admits Losses Near Pozieres
and Trones Wood '
Continuing their successful efforts to force a wide breach in the German
Ancrc-Somme front, the British troops under Gen. Sir Douglas Haig have forced
the Teutons to tRcir third ilinc of defenses, the London War Office nnnounced
today. Two thousand prisoners were taken by the British in the operation.
The British forces arc exerting their heaviest pressure upon the German lines
from Hardecourt to Ovillers. The Germans are now facing the British four
miles behind their original front.
Violent but fruitless counter-attacks word delivered by the Germans against
Longueval, Bazentin-le-Grand and Bazentin-le-Petit, the villages taken by tho
British yesterday.
Tho salient driven by the Allies into the German lines is now more than
ten miles long at its base and from three to six miles deep. The efforts of the
Allies at present seem to be directed north and south, rather than cast. Tho
object .of these operations evidently is to force a gap in, the German lines largo
enough to permit tho sending through of large masses of troops. for flanking
movements on a big scale, thus compelling the abandonment by the Germans of
the entire Arras-Estrees salient and their retirement to the Arras-Bapaume-Pcronno
line.
The Berlin War Office report today admitted loss of ground near Pozieres
and 'the abandonment of Trones Wood.
The armies of the Crown Prince delivered four separate assaults on
the Verdun front last nighj, Paris reported today. The attacks were concentrated
in Avocourt Wood, in the sector of Vaux, in Chapitre Woods and Apremont
Forest. All 'broke down under the terrific fire of the French artillery. Thero
Was an intense bombardment north of Fort Souville.
"ALL WELL ON BRITISH
FRONT," SAYS REPORT OF
LONDON WAR OFFICE
LONDON, July IB.
The Germans facing the British forces
on the Somme front have been driven bach
to their third line system of defenses, the
War Odlco announced In an official report
tsaued at noon.
Two thousand more German prisoners
have been taken, it was stated.
The English forces continue to exert
powerful pressure against the German posi
tions all tho way from Hardecourt, where
the British and French armies join, to
Ovillers.
Violent counter-attackB of the Germans
In the reelon of the three villages taken by
the English in their assaults yesterday morn
ing Longueval, Daientln-I.e-Grand and
Bazentln-Le-Petlt broke down under the
concentrated artillery Are of the English
guns. The Allies have now driven a great
Eallent Into the German lines, which Is
more than 10 miles' wide at its base and
from three to six miles deep.
The following' Is the text of the official
statement: '
All continues to go well on the British
front. At one point the enemy has been
forced back o his third system of de
fenses, which Is more than four miles In
the rear of his original front on the
Prlcourt-Mametz line.
In the past 34 hours more than 2000
prisoners, Including a regimental com
mander of the 3d Guards Division,
have been captured. The total num
ber of prisoners taken by .the British
since the battle began exceeds 10,000.
Continued on rate Two, Column Tlie
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
Far Phitadclvhia and vicinituClen.
ally cloudy tonight; Sunday probably
(atr;pd
humidity;
vxodtrate easterly winds.
tKNOTJI OF DAY.
BuarUee-- , 4:43 a.m.Moen xl... 8:00 p.m.
8ua et.,.., 738 p.m.Moon outtn.l2;08 a.m.
XEMrEBATCKB AT EACH HOUB. r
"i I 21 3iTT
731
I.OBE AND SOUND
CERTIFICATE Loit. certificate ot mmtxrhlp
of aeorge w. Smith. Oceaacil, member of. the
VoloatMr Jftremea's Funeral Itellel Auocla
Ooo. PoUadelDhla. Pa. -
ADA B. BMITir.
WIJon ot qort W. Smith.
fcnrnvt BOSTON TERRIER, loat. Friday nhrht.
wMt pofcn booljod tall. B84 and Uhtaut:
aaawera to upi ot Pal; raward 135 If r
ilrEiA to tH0TCbtnut it. .
Dtbar Xeas and yuid Ada as. Vatt 10
Begin to Read "The Mucker, a New and Powerful
NEW CONVENTION HALL AS IT
THIRD CHILD PLAGUE
CASE DEVELOPS HERE
"Dolly" Fogle, Lambert Street
Neighborhood Pet, Stricken.
Home Put Under Quarantine
CUv's Three Sufferers
From Infantile Paralysis
Philadelphia's thrco victims of in
fantile paralysis are:
Joseph Curran, 17 months old, of
225 Delmore avenue, Kensington.
Florence Alexander, 5 year3 old,
daughter of Samuel Alexander, 1930
East Erie avenue.
Ellbra Fogle, 3 years old, daughter
of Isaac Fogle, 2206 Lambert street.
The Curran andj Alexander cases
developed last Saturday; the Fogla
case today.
NEW YORK, July 15. One hundred
and forty-four new cases of infantile
paralysis were reported by the Health
Department today, making a total of
1863 cases since the epidemic started.
At the same time 27 more deaths were
recorded, increasing the total of fatali
ties to 369. .
Philadelphia's third case of Infantile
paralysis developed shortly after midnight
this morning- at 2206 Lambert street, the
victim being 3-year-old Ellora Fogle, curly
hatred and dark-eyed, known In the neigh
borhood as "Dolly." She Is the daughter
of Isaao Fogle, who i. few weeks ago, during
the first outbreak of tho epldemlo In New
York, obtained a position In that city and
has since been traveling between the two
communities.
Ellora has been 111 three days. Yesterday
the suspicions of attending physicians were
aroused, and they summoned Dr. Theodore
P. Qlttens, 1716 Diamond strett, a member
of the Board of Health, for a consultation.
He diagnosed the case as one of Infantile
paralysis, notified the police of the 26th and
York streets district, and ordered the plac
ing of a double quarantine on the house,
policemen being stationed at the front and
rear doors.
The first examination of the child caused
the physicians to believe that she had a
typical New York case, but this morning
Continued on Pf Thro. Colamn Thro
ir
mmmtmimmmtm.
WILL LOOK WHEN COMPLETED
BARNES, H0FFNER
AND HAGEN PLAY
FOR THET TITLE
Two Philadelphians and Ex
Open Champion Play Off
Triple Tie at Garden City
FAVOR WHITEMARSH PRO
"How Thcu Stack Up"
rimrlln llolTiwr l'lnlMird 17th In Metro
politan omii loin, with Is, ":i. 77, 77 300.
Vnn 14th in 11)14. linUhril 1.1th In mi
tlonnt uikmi. 11)14. and 13th In I'hlliiclelphlii
unrn. 11)11. Tied far efonil, lOlfi.
Jim llnrnrN I-'InUheil 13th In nntlnnnl
open, lull) elxhth, riilludeliihlit open, 11) Hi
feeroml. 101ft.
Walter llncrn Flnl.linl third In .Metro
politan npfn Innt year, vn United Htnten
onrn rhiiinplon, 1014. I'lnlthrd third In
riilleilclphlu open, 1014. Did not compete
hint sear.
By SANDY McNIBLICK
GAKDHN CITV GOLK CIUI1, Gnrden
City, U I.. July IE. These three teed off.
Tho triple tie for the Metropolitan open
Kolf chnmplun.tlilp held firm today for many
holes, then cracked and fell upart over tho
Garden City course.
One ot the storming party wan tall,
slender, curly-headed Jim IiarneH, Phila
delphia, cocky and smiling, veteran and
master of alt the grlmnuss and strategy of
Inside play for nn open purse. '
.Another was' a boyish-built, long-Jawed,
determined golfer, barely nut nf his teens,
Clmrllo Iloffner, also of the Quaker City.
He Is In tho play-off today to bring glory
to his home town, also .the bacon.
Hundred of Gotham folks, good golf fans
all, gathered neath the leaden skies and
stretched in solid banks nlong tho fairways
to moan, clioko and otherwise gurgle over
the soul-satlsfylng golf-shot flavors spread
out by tho Phlladelplilam.
Oh, yes, then there was one Walter P.
Iliigen, a Itoclie.slei--ial.sed pro of 24 years
who was close in tho going, very much so,
alack. Ilagen Is only 24 years old. but
he Is older by years than Iloffner. Ilagen
won the national open championship of the
United States two years ago.
This is the 11 rat tlmo the youthful golf
wizard has been within real earshot of a
title since. The lone tip-.Ktntn competitor
swished Ills sticks with much vigor today.
Ho bucked his two Philadelphia rivals for
thu title with all tho vim of his young
soul, determined not to bo squeezed out of
the reckoning.
Barnes Is conceded first money by many
critics because he Is the veteran of the
party, a hardened expert against two bril
liant hoys, and because he made so much
waBh In-the national open In which he fin
ished third this year.
Iloffner, though he held flrYit place through
all four rounds of the 'present tourney,
doesn't get much real consideration at the
hands of the unwise, but the Philadelphians
In the gallery see In his golf today the stuff
that goes big and wins.
Barnes made the best round of the whole
tourney yesterday when he shot a 72 over
the bitter stretches of sand and hazards
of the Long Island course. He minded mot
the heat.
The play-off today was at IS holes. The
best score gets first money.
TWO CAMDEN MEN KILLED; TRAIN
AND MOTORCAR CAUSE ACCIDENTS
W. M. Robinson, Son of Fire
Department Captain,
Killed Sitting on Auto
mobile Guard
William M. Robinson, son of Captain
Robinson .of the Camden Fire Department,
was killed In an automobile accident about 2
o'clock this morning, near Berlin, N. J.
He and four friends were riding In a
motorcar of the roadster type, and Robinson
was sitting on a mud guard. The machine
was moving past a telegraph pole when
Robinson's body, extending beyond the line
ot the car, struck the post.
His skull was fractured and he suffered
other Injuries of the body, dying Instantly,
Believing that there was some hope for the
life of the young man, Thomas B. Archer,
a Philadelphia, who was passing In his' car,
made a wild drive to the Cooper Hospital,
Camden, where physicians pronounced. Rob
inson dead. Archer Uvea at 2217 North 17th
street
The young men were on their way to Cam
den when the accident occurred. The motor
car was owned and driven by Harry Spin
den, 21 years old, of 1413 Princess avenue,
Camden. Frank James, of 606 Newton ave
nue, was In the car, but the names of the
other occupants are unknown.
fiplnden was arrested and held by the
police. Prosecutor Kraft was notified of the
accident ' Robinson was 24 years old and
lived at 1261 Point boulevard. Camden.
iiiiiitf
Drawing ly John T. Wlndrlm. architect.
between 21st, 22d, Hamilton and
MILK GOING TO
9 CENTS A QUART
IN NEAR FUTURE
Increase Necessary Through
Action of Farmers, Ac
cording to Dealers
ADVANCE OF ONE CENT
Philadelphia Is threatened with an In
crease In tho price of milk. Milk dealers
announco today that It Is Inevitable and
will como soon. More than 2000 farmers of
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland and New York have decreed It.
Through their organization, tho Interstate
Milk Producers' AssooJatlo'n, they have
raised the wholesale prlco charged Philadel
phia dealers from 4',S cents a quart to 5
cents. Philadelphians, as n result, will have
to pay 8 M nnd 9 cents a quart for tho com
modity which has for the last 25 years been
obtalnablo by them at 8 cents.
Although th'o fnrmera nnd dairymen noti
fied tho dealers July 1, It did not become
publicly known until today that the price
was to bo raised. This Is because very few
retail dealors Increased their prices. But
now many- of.-them say that they must
Their expenditures liavo Increased through
tho rise In the prices of Ice, rentnl, stock
feed and other necessaries In the laat few
yenrs, they say. Therefore the consumer
must reimburse them.
Many dealers are denouncing the Inter
state Milk Producers' Association ns a
"trust." There are moro than 2000 farm
ers In tho five States tributary to Philadel
phia who are members of the association.
They comprise virtually nil the producers
of milk In that territory. When the asso
ciation orders nn Increase In price there
remain few places whero milk may be
bought at less than that price; not enough,
In fact, to supply any appreciable part of
Philadelphia.
Announcement of the Increase In the
wholesale, price of milk was made first
through bulletins posted July 1 In tho freight
yards of the Pennsylvania Railroad, at 31st
and Chestnut streets, and the Philadelphia
and Reading Railway, at Sd and Berks
streetB. Many dealers, when they were
first compelled to pay more, quit business.
Since the first notification many more have
quit or announced their Intention of quit
ting. Their customers, they say, refuse
to pay the additional cost, and their profits,
when having to pay the farmers' price, are
too small to keep them In the business,
It Is estimated that there are 4500 deal-
Continued on Page Two, Colamn Fonr
J. Henry Wpod, Octoge
narian Retired Merchant,
Struck While Crossing
Railway Tracks
J. Henry Wood, 80 years old, a retired
merchant of Camden, was almost Instantly
killed this morning, when an aecommoda.
tlon train struck him while he was cross
ing the railroad tracks to board a trolley
car In front of his summer residence at
Somerdale, N- J- He had been a resident
of Camden for nearly E0 years, and In the
winter months made his heme with his
son, W, R. Wood, a cigar dealer, of 408
Kalghn avenue.
The elderly man walked right In front
of the train', entirely oblivious of the fact that
It was coming. He was thrown a consider
able distance, his head being badly crushed
and his legs broken. He was placed aboard
the train and hurried to Camden, where at
tha Cooper Hospital he was pronounced
dead.
Mr. Wood, with Mrs, C. M, Meyers, a
daughter, had gone to their Bomerdato home
about a month ago. He Is survived by
another daughter, Mrs, It EMcQowan. of
Pitman, N. J.
Turkey Abo May Withdraw
BOMB, July 16. Germans are worrying
now over the possibility that Turkey may
desert the Central Powers while they are
under attack on all sides, and sue for
peace, according to two New York salesmen
who arrived here today fron. Berlin.
Edgar Rice Burroughs Story, on Page 7, of Today's
i i-irs-ir iiirtfimiaigi iiiiiliili i aMtt jjhtttffl
LATEST'
CHICAGO ist o-.. Ill
ATHLETICS. . . .10
Scott nud Schalk; Sheehan nnd Carroll.
PHILLIES st a. 0
PITTSBURGH.
Ale;: nuclei' and Bums; Jacobs and Wilsou.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
ST. LOUIS 2
BOSTON, lstg O
0 o
do
Hamilton and, Hartley' Tostcr and Cady.
'Si- i
(t
"i I-.
' FIND 8-FOOT SHARK AT- LONG BRANCH
tfVv'fS:. -1 ;.'
LONG BRANCH;',N. J.,, iTiiljr-lS. Fishermen found nn eight-foot
shark, weighing nfe'a'rly SOO.quldslni'iie hero today. The big
fish was killed after-nearly;lb;jmlriutes'.,wprk.
ij.' .;:' . :'": f ''' '
FUNSTON ORDERS -"PROBE 0F. ALLEGED CARRANZISTA RAID
... !:.! .'.'.""
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.,; July ,',15. Major General Funston has or
dered the fullest Inquiry into the nlleged Carrnnzista raid on tho
Warren Brotherav .yaii'eh, "nil .Anlerican property near Durango City,
when 3000 cattlo.;wer6driveu"off.'''
SENATE OPPOSES HOUSE ON WATER POWER BILL
. -:. r:-y , '"
WASHINGTON, -Juiy lO.'r-Thc Senate voted today to disagree
t Uic .o.t ...-.iwer biliViitt appointed Senators Shields, Bank
head and Nelson' aV conferees fa'a'dlust the difference over the meastn-e.
v : i v'f '.-.- ' ., !".'. '
w.-
. .
WO
DUKE DE ROHAN. WOUNDED IN SOMME FIGHT, DIES
PARIS, Juljr'iS. The Duke de Hohan, a member of the Cham
ber of Deputies,' "'who was wojunded in the fighting on tho Somme
front on ThursdaJrHled' todayl"
Kf.t'J'
'&.V
ROBBER SHOOTS PAYMASTER AND GETS $1350
BCSTOIT, July 15. Samuel-A. Campbell, paymaster "of the Co
lonial Can Company, was shot by a robber on the street today and
robbed of S1350 the company's payroll. '
PHONE COMPANIES WIN HIGHER 'LONG-DISTANCE RATE
WASHINGTON, July 15. The Interstate Commerce Commission
ruled today thattelephono compasses may charge a higher through
rate on long distance messages than the sura of intermediate rates
between large cities which railroads are forbidden to do.
TWO BRITISH SHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS
HULL, England, July 15. The British steamships Bute and Ben
Aden, each displacing 173 tons, have been sunk by German sub
marines. The crews were landed today.
ALL OHIO TROOPS ORDERED TO BORDER
CAMP WILLIS, O., July '15. AU Ohio troops at Camp Willis
have been ordered to the border.
MECCA, SACRED CITY OF MOSLEMS, YIELDS TO AltABS
CAIRO, July IS. The famous city of Mecra, the most holy place of the
Mohammedan world, has surrendered to the Arabian rebels, according to dispatches
received here today. The Turkish garrison ot 100 officers and 2500 men and 160
civil officials laid down their arms. '
The Grand Sherif of Mecca, who exerciser authority under the Sultan of
Turkey, also surrendered. (Mecca, the birthplace of Mohammed, lies east of the
Red Sea and about 800 miles southeast of Sue- The foundation for Its fame lies
In the fact that 100,000 followers of Mohammed make an annual pilgrimage to
kiss the block stone of Kuaba. The city has a population of about 0,000.)
U. S. TO HAVE MOST EFFICIENT AEROPLANE SERVICE
WASHINGTON', July IB. Uncle Sam Is going to have the most efficient aero
plane service In the world. This Is the declaration of those now reorganizing this
branch of the country's defense. The most expert talent In the United States will
be pressed Into servic. 'ffafflj., .
PEAPE MOVEMENT GROWS IN GERMANY
COPENHAGEN, July 16. Correspondents of Danish rwspapera in Berlin
state that peace efforts In Germany are increasing In strength dally. They tele
graphed .today that a new national committee had been formed to spread the peace
propaganda throughout the entire country and that Us work was being unhampered
by the officials.
j , ,
"DRY" NAVY ORDER SENDS, CUT GLASSWARE TO AUCTION
Officers of the battleships and cruisers at the Philadelphia Navy Yard have
been ordered to send their cut, glass wine services to the New York Navy Yard,
where they will be disposed of at public uctlon. It Is said that the men have no
use for the services since Secretary Daniels banished liquor from the ufficers' mess.
SPORTS
TWO BUILDINGS
TO SHOW CITY'S
ONWARD STRIDE
Municipal Auditorium and
Custom House Will
Be Erected
GREAT HALL ON PARKWAY;
Congressional Committee Fa
vors $760,000 for the Govern
ment Structure Site
Some Details of Phlladelohla'aA
Two New Public Structures
Congressional Committco provides
$750,000 for now Customs Houso
site.
Tho site has not been determined.
Action of tho committee must bo
approved by Congress.
Plans for tho Convention Hnll on
tho Parkway announced.
Building will accommodate 15,000
persons.
Will bo ono of tho largest In
America.
Will bo built in Roman classic
style nnd will bo nn architectural
model.
Stops woro taken today for the erection
of two buildings whloh will do much to
placo Philadelphia in tho forefront among
American cities for tho beauty, and size of
Its public edifices.
Plans wero completed here for building
tho municipal auditorium on tho Parkway,
nnd in Washington the Congressional Com
mitted on Publla Buildings and Grounds
authorized an appropriation of 1760,000 to
purchase a otto for a now custom houso.
Announcements of tho plans for two pub
lic Improvements came simultaneously.
Word of tho action of tho Congressional
Committee was received today by Represen
tative J. Hampton Moore. The money has
boen provided, so far as the committee Is
concerned, but tho appropriation must be
passed by Congress. Tho location of the
site Han not been determined. It was an
nounced that If Congress acted favorably
upon tho project the ofIce of the supervis
ing architect of tho United States Treasury
Department would Immediately begin the
task of locating the new building.
. LOCALITIES SUGGESTED.
Various localities have been suggested.
Among them are tho site of tho. old Stock
Exchange, at 3d,, Walnut and -Dock- Bfreetr-
the southwest corner of 2d and Chantnut
streets; the property Immediately east of
tho prosent Custom House, extending on
Chestnut street to 4th; the northeast corner
of 3d and Chestnut streets, and the north
west corner of 2d and Arch. Tho property
adjacent to the Custom House Is occupied
by the Federal Reserve Bank.
Although general plans for the Conven
tion Hall have been announced, It was not
until today that the details were made pub
lic. Under the plans of the Architect, John
T. Wlndrlm, the auditorium will be one of
the largest In the country. It will contain
two galleries and have a seating capacity
of 15,000.
The hall will be built upon the site
selected by the Mayor after a review of
all available localities. It will be erected
under the supervision of Director Salesman,
of the Department of Publla 'Works. It
will be situated on the north side of the
Parkway and Will occupy the block bounded
by 31st, 22d, Hamilton and Callowhill
streets.
The building will be designed In Roman
classic style and will be faced on the ex
terior with light-colored limestone. There
will be three large porticos, each having
ten columns.
ENTRANCE ON PARKWAY.
Main entrances to the auditorium will be
on .the Parkway front. Exits and entrances
will also be provided along the entire
lengths of the 2Ut and 22d street fronts.
By the exits provided, In less than five
minutes, an audience the full capacity of
the auditorium, walking at a normal pace,
will have left the building.
The foyer will be 40 feet by 144 feet
Directly above the foyer and at the level
of the first gallery, which Is approximately
the street level at the north end. thero
will be an auditorium capable of seating
1000 persons. a
At the second gallery level, on the 31st
and 22d street fronts, there will be on each
front a hall of 400 capacity. On this second
gallery level there will be 'two halls of
300 capacity each. In addition to this
there will be eight room, each 28 by 30,
for the use of committees.
The stage will seat 1000 persons and
will have proscenium opening of of 100
feet ahd will be 50 feet deep. The stage
will be arranged for use for pageants, spec
tacles or large choral or orchestral fu no
tions. The building, when used for exhibition
purposes only and not as an auditorium,
will have an exhibition capacity of 91,00
square feet.
The basement will be capable of accom
modating a restaurant, retiring rooms,
eraergenoy hospital, telephone and tele
graph service, a heating and ventilating
plant
At the north front there will be a rail
road siding run on" the property for th
convenient loading and unloading of ex.
hltlts.
SHIP ASHORE OFF CAPE HENBT
in iaBaM( hi i i
Tugs Go to Assistance of Britjjli
11 Vessel
Norfolk; Va, Juiy i5,-rbe British
steamship Junln, 2Si tons, which talleil
from Galveston for France on Ma 9, is
aground near Cape Henry. The coast uar
cutter Onandsga nd several tugs went la
her assistance today.
"The Jusln was said- tp be resting on a
vr keel and In little danger.
Evening Ledger
i
p
I
