.-.
J$tm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day and to-morrow;
moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 79; lowest, 65.
Detailed weather, mall nml marine rcpoits on pnge 9.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 319.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1916. Copyright, 191. by tha Sun Printing and Publuhltig Association,
r1V flPKtT I" Greater New Terk. 1 KlMwher.
UINti tjCilV 1 .-,-, Cj Mid Newark. I TWO CENTS.
ARSENAL BLAZE
KILLS ONE; HALF
MILLION DAMAGE
Firemen liattlc Amid Ex
ploding Cartridges in
:15th St. Huildhiff.
HEAVY AMMUNITION
MAGAZIXK FLOODED
Gas Clouds Endanger 3Iany
Priceless War Relics
Destroyed.
Flro swept through the old State
Arsenal of the National Ouard nt Sov
tnth avenue and Thlrty-llfth street at
I o'clock laBt evening.
Setting off nearly 400,000 rounds of
small nrma ammunition, It loosed a
hailstorm of bullets that rattled like
riant musketry, nnd It belched gaseous
clouds of smoko that overcame n score ,
Cf firemen and caused the death of '
one man. who lay In the burning build- !
Ing for more than un hour before he j
tra picked up unconscious.
Despite the tempest of bullets and
in the suffocating smoke, the firemen
made perilous rescues. The lone en
gineer of the building and the custo
dian too. Hew to the magazines and
Itrasped great levers that Hooded the
place where 300,000 rounds of shrapnel
and 100,000 three Inch shells were
stored.
In the streets there was panic, for
the cry went up that the fire was in
the magazines, and tnittlc for blocks
around was paralyzed, ns policemen
drove tho residents of the neighbor
hood to safety. The tire did ir.00,000
damage to the arsenal nnd the stores
In It. Includlns the famous relics of
American wars that were In the sec
ond lloor trophy room.
it was nimeu inai xnc urr "'
have hern set. and two Investigations I
were begun, one by the Stntp and the j
other by the local lire mursnal, to de
termine Its CttllUP.
Ilend.
Thomas McNau.v. 2R years olil. 321
Wtit Fortieth street, a State chauffeur:
burned about the hands and breast and
irphyxlated.
Injnred.
ASTltoNT Kino. Mreman
It. overcome by smoke :
of Knglnc
New York
Hopltl.
John Ci-mminos, 32 years old. cus
todian; cuts on the left hand.
iir.oK(,E l.vNTHAi.m:. 2" years old.
fireman of Kngine 16; ovetcome by
smike; New York Hospital.
Okoriik IIki'KKI., Ilreman of Kngine 14,
overcome bv smoke ; New York Hospital.
Jons I. 'McNamix. tlrem.in of Kngine
K, overcoms by smoke; New York Hos
pital
la'- ii ,.,.ini !
James- O'Hcii.i.t. 2J years old, a medal I
Ilreman of Kngine
I, ovelcome by
imoke; Hellevue.
tot.
(lost vrlcL tilr Alarm.
t.leiit.Col. Henrv A. Hoetwlc. act-'
iv.i tJpnrv A. Itostwlck. act-
isv i.llni r.,1 while Adlt.l.en.
ftotesbury was In Alban. ran out of hlsi
:Wcm on fie second floorflve minutes
D"rc fi o Cinch anil luunu i "i" "in..... ,
tiaivcj- In Seventh avenue, where he has
teen stationed ever since too ...
hurrying trooii" and supplies to the bor-
ltr began, With Carvey was Andrew
Muran. I.leuL-Col. Hostwlck's chuffeur.
"The State Arsenal Is atlrc anca,th lire
Is In the tnagaxlnes '." was the report
that went over the police wires. This
wasn't true, because at the same it me
John Cnnimlnirf!. cl stodlan of the build
tr.t, had discovered the. fire leaping from
the repair room on the ground floor to
hid quarters on the second floor. He
started madly for the magazines, on the
northeast corner of the ground floor, cut
ting himself hi trying to break through
s glasH door, and finding the engineer,
Ourles lnz, there ahead of him. To
gether they tlooded the niagaxlnes.
Meanwhile the police, acting under
orders ff in Chief Inspector Schmltt
beriter, drovethc tenants of the houses'
along the south side of Thlrty-flfth street
out Into their rear yard and so through
Into Thirty-fourth Hreet. They pushed
evirjbodv as far away as the Pennsyl
vania stiitl n and (Ireeley SUare.
Feeding on the el!nw pine partitions
In the building, on the canvas coin, and
on the condemned blankets and uni
forms and other supplies, thn fire gen
erated carbon monoxide gas anil sent
thick clouds rolling out of the Sev
enth avenue and Thirty-fourth street
runwajri of the building and out of
very window. Including the turret wits
of tiiethree towers
It was nt this time, not many minutes
sfler the flic had been discovered air!
hen all of the officers of the Adjutant
fisneral's staff and the Menogranhers
and clerks had escaped that the chauf
feur Muraii was seen driving ope nf the
eti motor trucks out of the building.
He went hick again and saved another
and he would have gone back a third
time, hut firemen Mopped him, He
sh'niled at them that Tom McN.illy, (in
other chauffeur, was there; that thev hud
otiH In together ; that ho had heard a
hang and that McNally hadn't come out.
tut nil this was forgotten In tho ex
ClUineut named. Suffocated and siliul.
Soon after 7 o'clock two firemen stum-
Hwl over le.-a lie's bodv close to one
i tie Joois, Ho was removed to the
ki'lewalk. where nmhuUtiC" sufjeons
orl.ed over him In vain, lie died half
an luiiir tiler nod. besides' the burns
"ml the nsphysliillon from which he had
nn-feted. It whs said, tlial several oui
III. hoi lmli.,,,1 In his bnrlv.
r'i-eniaii'.l, It, Corrlgan of Hook and
ladOn t watt on the third, or lov lioor,
Coiilfii'ied on Hrconit I'npr.
The SUNDAY SUN Will Be Bigger, Brighter and Snappier Than Ever.
To Insure Getting It, Order Your Copy ffom Your Newsdealer TO-DAY
Hand newyork pres11
FIRST U BOAT TO U.S.
WAS BRITISH PRIZE
Original Craft of Pcutscliland
Type Taken on Trlnl
Trip.
ENGINE TROUBLE FATAL
Secret of Capture Out ns Time
Xenrs for Counterpart
to Sail.
Washington-, July 14. Before th
Herman merchant submarine now It
Baltimore, hnrhor had so much
started for this country her predecessor
the first submarine of the lieutschlam
type, was captured off the Irish coast bj
the lltltlsh navy on her trial trip, so
I naval authorities here to-day told Tin
Si's correspondent.
This dm undersea craft of the
Heiitschland type Is now In Kngland. ac-
innillnn l,i n w f nl. I r liACn A lino
,,er ,vn,n ne WBH lM,,tured by British
.11 siillii wirre Bevri.u pi-iniu.-iii-, i;aci I
I mechanics and sailors, all of whom an
now Interned In Kngland. The capture
of the Initial merchant submarine In
tended for transatlantic service was ef
fected because of engine trouble which
developed off the Irish coat. For rea
sons of policy the fact has been kept se
cret by the British Admiralty, but the
facts are on flic with the fritted Siutts
ofllclals In Washington, It Is said.
Chance n Catch submarine.
The chances of British destroyers or
other types of craft catching the
Deutschlaml depend largely, according to
expert opinion In naval circles, on
whether the wake of the submarine Is
sighted as she attempts to slip out. If
the wake Is picked up the operations
which the British naval forces are un
derstood to have planned carefully will
have considerable chances of success.
Treating the Deutschland us a warship
and not aa a merchantman, they will fol
inn- ih. i. hua n.i. nru.,i i.
tween ilestroyers, grapnel hookt equipped
with high explosive bombs, and at the
same time endeavor to ram her.
tlrapnel hooks, with which the British
"Mibmarlnu catchers" have been experi
menting for many months, are simitar to
enormous fish hooks, such as might be
used to catch sharks. The destroyers
drag to a deplh of 200 feet and rely
upon the prongs catching In tho numer
ous projections of the submarine's hull
and exploding the bombs. J
The nets are composed of steel mesh.
In case the wake of the submarine Is
sighted the tactics employed are for two
destroyers to steam on ahead and spread
the net so that the underwater craft
runs Into It.
llniT llnat May Dodge.
Hut. afier outlining thee methods i
which the lirltlsh navy will employ, ex-j
perts here point out the tactlci which I
the, submarine will use to avoid them.;'
Tho consensus of opinion Is that tho
..,.......,, ... eJ,C(.,nl rUmr to
I esenpe. Capt. Koctilg doubtless will
reply upon showing no sign of his ship's
wake, and conditions oft the coast are
vrrv favnrnble to htm.
i. tn,nn for rraoteil that tho
.,,,,,,.. ,, hi i.nm ,i,. ilirr. mile
,mt BWnh ,) probably at night. Thl'i
ef.0ssllutes a depth nf something like,
f,,rty fe(,t, Wllvll travelling oil llie SUr-
fatp )h(, )PUtschlnnd draws thirteen and
one-half feet and when entirely sun-
I1)er(?ci ,x,.P,t for ,er periscope slm
dr.lwB twenty-nine feet.
,t ls ur,derst()od the Deutschland has a
"housing periscope." This means that
s)le rttn draw ICr periscope down to
(1), ,eve. of ,1( decki t,,reby cllml-
natn(f t from VPW nd also tending to
eliminate the wash made by the sub
marine. U is the protruding periscope
which makes the dangerous ripple on the
surface and often gives the enemy the
first clue as to tho undersea boat's where
abouts.
The fact that the water Is comparative
ly shallow oft the capes Is taken In many
uuarters as a Hanger sign ior i. apuiiu
Knenlg. American experts sam to-oay
that this Is nerhans his greatest asset.
He can mibmerge outside the three mile
limit and calmly rest his submarine on
tho sandy bottom and remain tncre tor
several da) a If he cares to.
"A DAGGER AT THROAT."
(Jnlirlrl llanntnnx Mrra KITart to lie-
open Miiliniarlur ContriM ersy.
iv.iftu .tnli, 11 lltihrlel llniiotaux.
formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs and Will Prolinlily TnUe Place Ten lln
president of the Fianco-Ainerican Com-' fler Thai nf HiikIick.
mission for the Development of Political,
Kconnmlc. Literary and Art Iterations, Inpianapoi.is, July It. Tho iijtlflca
in a leader In the riynm to-day declare Hon of Charles Fairbanks nf his
that the appearance nf the Herman com-1 immln itlon for ice-Pre-ldent w ill
merclal submarine Ueutsohhmd In Amer-1 Probably take placn about ten days after
leap watera Is a pait of Herman dlplo- Mr. Hughes s notification, Hie cere-
macy. It will bo ronoweu, ne asseris,
by a reopening of Cue question of tier
man resumption of the submarine cam
paign against merchant ships, and he
alludes to It as "a diplomacy to Intimi
date neutral Powers and sow discord be
tween neutraVi and members of the
Kiiteutc,
"It Is as If Hermany said tn the na
tions beyond tho seas, 'The sen no lunger
's an obstacle ; Here w are, ami peivare
our coining again.' it Is a part of the
Herman system to try Intimidation
rather than persuasion, Hermany never
has been able tn abstain from a certain
menacing arrogance whlih conceals her
adroit maniruvres. Here wo find the
ba.sle contempt of Pan-Hermaiilsm for
small countrlej anil unarmed nations.
This submarine, quietly slipping Into
an American port, says In effect, '1 am
here, and now let us negotiate,' Thus It
In with a dagger at th-s throat thai the
neutral tlovernment Ih obliged to an
swer." t'etarr'i enrtonnn tinw appear dally in The
New York Erenlni Pot-D.nly 3c. Sat, Sc,
Adi:
1SH
ilBf 'H
aBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBat' iaBB '5
aKIaaaaaaPWlK 'iM? Wfrfi
Robert Bacon.
ROBERT BACON TO BE
LIEUT. IN TWELFTH
Kx-Secretar.v of State Will fie
AsM'irneil to Machine (inn
Coinpnny.
llEApgt-AUTrns New Voiik Htvisios,
McAi.i.kn, Tex.. July 14. Robert Itacon,
former Secretary of State and former
Ambassador to Frame, has been com-1
missioned a second lieutenant in the '
Twelfth New York Infantry, according
to reliable information here. Jle Is imw
... .i .,,-.. . . t. , ...
.Ml ill- ay it. .iitrtiii-ii to lie .isniKlK-u io
the machine gun company of that rcgi-. , "ni,vV i"clvtrsrli of that Stale In-
ment. Ills son. Itobert llason, Jr., Is troduced n resolution to appropriate
also In camp here ns lieutenant In thel$5.nn to aid the bureau and State au-
First Field Artlltciy.
Mr. Itacon. who was a rookie at Plntts
burg lat jcar and carried a gun nt the
business men's camp at Fort Oglethorpe
again this svrlng. was also selected as
one of the quai termastcm In the pro
posed Koosevclt division. He Is ihalr
man of the executive v"'nmltlee of the
National Sceurltv League.
KNIFE TO CURE MURDER.
tlperatlon tn Ileal n SirU tlraln
larnr n SneeeM,
Tr.KNTo.v, July 14. How a surgical
operation on the brain of James Salkcly.
a Hungarian, sent jiucd to serve thirty
.vears In the S ate prison for killing a
fellow cmintrv man. entirely changed the
t,h.ir-ll.,cr nf tllf. , sn0r ,-, revealed
.... ,, i,r., i v.. ia.
" "" "
sey Court or Pardons at Sea nut nas
granted his inrulo. The minder was
particularly brutal.
Siiekrly In prison manifested morose
tendencies anil complained of pains in
Ids head, lie was rtgirded as a dan-
gerous prlsoiu r Mr. Mat-in VA . Iteililau,
a Tienton siirceon and the v Isltlng prison
physician, decided In operate. For a
long time nf .rwiird the pr soner hov-
ereu launn nn- ni-nui, nui ii
red. From a sullen, trbelllous prl
recov-
sutler
he became au cage", willing and kindly
worker. He could remember nothing of
the crime.
The application of llayninnd S. Smith,
defaulting cashlei of the Ho-evllle bank,
was turned down, four men were re
stored to citizenship and more than loo
other cases were acted on favorably.
WILSON TO GREET POSTMASTERS
I, Son will Attend Their .National
'invention .Inly IN.'JI.
Washington. July H, More than
1,2011 postmaster have enrolled to at
lend the convention of the National As-I lug sien along the New Jersey shore, but
soclatlon of Postmasters nf the. Fnltod 1 sallies against them were not successful.
States, to be held hcie ,lul 1 lo 21 I Matawau Creek gave up early yester
A fealoie ,,f fie nieellni: will be u ! day morning the body of Lester Stlllwell,
canlen paitv on llie White Jlouse lawn
July 21. wlien the visitors will lie ie -
celved by lresldeit and Mis. Wilson,
I'ostuiasler-ileneral and Mis. Hurlesou
and other Cabinet members with their
wives.
FAIRBANKS'S NOTIFICATION.
ninny will b" at the homo of Mr, Fair
banks here.
Among those who have promised Io
attend the notification are William It,
Wlllcox, ttepiibllcnn national chairman.
WOMAN'S PARTY CONFERENCE.
I It Wilt Me Held at Pnlnradn
siprlnu limns! I" to I
Wamiinutov. July II. The national
executive committee .if the National
Woman's party Is.sued a call to-day for
a c inference to be held at Colorado
Springs August in to 12 "to decide on
measures to he adopted by the Woman's
party In the coming election to win na
tional suffrage for women."
"Twelve suffrage States, controlling
ninety-one electoril votes, contain mote
than l.iHin.flon wi men quiiimcd lo vote
for President," said the call. "The fact
that these Slates control one-fifth of tl'e
Klecloral College mid casl oiie-llilnl of
the voles iiecessiry lo elect a Presldenl
gives women voters the power to deter
mine tho election of the next President."
COAST GUARD TO AID
IN SHARK CRUSADE
Cabinet Discusses Other Means
of Restoring Safety of
Jersey Beaches.
CTTTERS TO 00 FISHING
Two More Caught in Nearby
Waters and Several Schools
Reported.
Wasiiinc.ton, July 14, Tho Federal
Hovernment to-day canvassed Its re
sources for combating the Invasion of
north Atlantic coast waters by sharks.
President Wilson and his Cabinet dis
cussed what could be able to prevent
more tragedies like those which have
occurred recently along the New Jersey
shore, and the Coast (Juard and Life
Saving services were ordered to assist
In shark extermination In every way
possible.
The bureau of fisheries Issued a for
mal statement during the day. advising
widespread fishing for sharks, and warn
ing bathers to keep In shallow water,
but admltllne Inability to advance a
certainly effective mentis of preventing
further attacks. The statement asserted,
however, that there was no reason for
panic among seaside bathers.
The first effort of the Coast Huard
service will be to ascertain whether a
few Individuals or several sihools of the
sea monsters are In northern waters. A
I cutter Hill tlsli fur the sharks If their
number Is tint great
with the aid or
Ufe Saving Cups. Should a large mini
Per no iityoovore'i more extensive oe-i.
linns may lie undertake n,
, ?ach patrol was susgeted to tho
14...-....,. ..f lm..i.iHa.i fo..1:i lit- ttenre-
.....-... .1, , ... ...... .
ihzr'.i" "i.vi tvi" ! in;;; : iseaVis ; ? " i n.;;; -o juu wr
presence of the big man hunting tlh In I ' oinparatlve estimates It was I nam., via Port Itoynl. Presumably
' , r,. j ... ,...11.... shown tb.it tin. l-nlieil Stairs i intern. ' ran Into the hurricane which has b
"..''.,-. i,,'..- h.. .....,! metll appropriate,! 1.1.01 T. for In-1 sweeping this area and endeavored
bv a few piedatory sharks and doubt vestigatlon and prevention of ,seies of
their presence III considerable numbeis i animal and plant life and only $I.'.M7.
In the summer resort districts. Scientific,, for Investigation and ireventlon
. Ir. le. wrre much interested to-nlKht in I
n report that the American Museum ofl
Natural History of New York might send I
exiiett scientists, Incluung iurector
l.ucas. who In the leading American au-.
thorlty on slmrks, to Invistlgate along
th New Jersey shore.
I r. llarton A. IHan. head curator of
the nh division of the Smithsonian in-
..i ,.i.i ......ik. i.. i,
t.'hle the attacks upon bathers may have
. i i .i. ...1.1..1. '
ne.'ll oy r.iiii null nn, ..tit... ....
tremcly aggressive, nttalii large size and
Inhabit Northern Iwatets, Tliere Ins
been no authentic record, lie insisted, of
sharks of the "tiger" or white man eat
ing cle of tropical waters ever hav
ing been found north of Cape Hatteras.
SHARK BOUNTY ASKKD.
Jot. Fli-liler 'nnslilrrlnn Appeal ol
Palrrion 'nnmieree Chamber.
To hasten the capture of sharks tint
are terrorizing the New Jersey coast,
dor, Fielder Is considering the advisabil
ity of asking the State to pay a bounty
for each one killed. The Paterson
Chamber of Commerce yesterday adopted
a resolution favoring this course. In a
Ictur tn the (lovernor, John J. Fitz
gerald, secretary of the board. as the
following bounties would Interest fisher
men In the extermination of tho pests:
For a 100-pound shark, $2; 200 pounds.
I 300 P'"''' : 0 pu"ds. 25;
r,00 pounds, t.'O.
A shark big enough tn have been the
one that killed two persons In Mata
wan Creek on Wednesday was caught
by fishermen off Atlantic Highlands ch-
Unlay, Others were reported as he.
the boj swimmer who was dragged down
1 by a shark on Weduewlay. It came UP
anoiii i .io ii'i'i iip-iiiiiiii i ..in no- n,'i
whin- Stlllufl! dis.iiie.ired. Harry van
Cllef ami William II. Clayton, Jr., who
were scoiitlnf for sharks la a boat, took
the body to shoie. 'I'll,, head, legs anil
arms wet., unmarked, but elsewhere tho
ody was teirlly scairul.
Shark Hunters Pntrol reek.
The function of Stlllwell and of Stan
ley Fisher, the oinig mm who was
seized by a sdinrp while trying to re
cover St'lllwcllV baty, will he held to.
day. Joseph Ilium, the other Imy gashed
by a sli.uk in Matawau Creek, Is still
lii a srrlous condition In SI. Peter's Hos.
pllal.'.N'ew Itrunsw Id;,
Mme wire neV have been placed In
the creek. Fire chief L. S. Kninions of
Matawan s illiecilin- a gtoup of vol
unteer shaik hunters who ate patrolling
tliestrenm with harpoons, long handled
hay forks and lilies. Asher P. Wooley,
I a niemtiers or mo .Matawan i ouncn,
, which has offered n reward for any man
enter caught In the creek, was out wltht
n lantern brigade laM night.
The shark captured off Atlantic High
lands eitcrd.iy was brought to Fulton
Market. It was found entangled In tho
net of Paul Tartiow, a tlhcrnian. It
uirnsured eight and a half feet long
and weighed 2.i0 pounds, the captors
.juesied. They found In the stomach
twelvo small sharks about eighteen
Inches long.
Shark Attacks a final.
John Carlson, a fisherman of Sea-
bright, and bis partner, say a shark
Jumped at their boat three miles out lit
the Atlantic yesterday and with lis flu
Coiiffiiitrif on Tilid I'npr.
$18,500 A YEAR FOR
GIRL OF 16 TOO MUCH
So Rules Surrogate When
Leonora Carroll Itemizes Ne
cessities of the Wealthy.
Surrogate Fowler denied yesterday the
plea of lirena Carroll, 1 years old, of
57 West Sevoiity-llftli street for un an
nual allowance of $1S,:,0G from the es
tate of her father, Joseph D. Carroll,
who died November 23, 1912, leaving a
fortune of $1,100,000.
Tills Is what the girl listed In her
affidavit as the least possible amounts
required for a child In her station of
life:
Automobile, chauffeurs, Ac. $3iOO.
Travelling, vacations, social parties,
luncheons, theatres and spending
motley, JS.Oftu.
Wearing apparel and toilet articles,
$.1,000.
Household expense:), telephones.
Mowers and gratuities, $2,500.
Kent, $2.uU0.
education, including private tuition
In French and music, $2,0n0.
Physicians, opticians, dentist and
medicines, $l.(ion.
Incidentals. 1.000.
lrena's mother set forth In a second to hor eMr who hh(. wa3 dl-abled some
affidavit that she cannot provide for the. , . , ,
child's needs, n. she receives only the' ''' m" ofr l,crc 1,1 ,ast night a hurrl
Income of a $100,000 trust fund under cane.
her husband's will. This Is barely, static conditions were such that no
enough, she says to pay her rent. wireless report could be obtained to-
$966,837,630 LOST BY DISEASE.
anted lir Tj phold and Malaria, I
Sajs Srnatnr llaiisilell
Wasiiinotos-. July 14. The annual
jiuj it.-1 op annual,: : ,.. . . .. . . . . ,, .
suffered by the Cited I fr,,! ,hc Charleston lightship. ( apt
i.hnld fever and malaria ,,""t ""', I'"" "f ,tnc ,l"''' ""I"'-
economic loss
States from ty
aggregates SJGG.isT.Mn, aceotdlng to
estimate given the Senate, to-day by
Senator Itansdell of Louisiana, chairman
of the Committee on Public Health, In
an address on "Itural Health Aincrl-
Klrs-t iMltv"
Senator Itansdell estimate,! tl. giand
'"'-tl annual loss fmm typhoid fever at
H I '-T ? H"' f ' '"l'1 ,fl ",n nialatla at $ii94.-
of diseases of nun.
TTTnn trp xitatttti hid Timircer
,
' "
sienatnr Keclares liralm All Im-
mlraiil i:cenl Whltr.
" asiiimiton. July 14 -Senator orks
of Callfornl.i. iiddresslnc the Senate to-
day on the Japanese problem in Ano r-I
ca. dec are, t i.lt t ie xstie roll il lie l
- ... ,
r,, iiiiij llvi'l'IHK 111." I rt' llll' HUM I
between peoples of the two nations. I
He argued that the time had come .
when the Culled States. an act ofl
self-preservation, should declare by stat- I
lite Its purpoe "not to toletale futtheri
race cnmiillcations on our soil b pre- !
ventlnir Immlciatinn of all neooles not I
of the white race."
Mr. Work' continued
"If war with Japan comes, what then''
Have we prepared for It" Wdl we i
pieparcd fur It If the proposed pin
gramme of military and naval expansion
Is carried out" No. not on the Paellb-eoa-t
To make the Pacific roast States
secure we mi:sl have tun armies and
two nav, one on earli of the ssa
roasts '
:iFE SUES FOR STOCK LOSSES.
Mart Acllnn I niter Jersey "let In
I'reveiK IJamlnB."
Nr.WAtiK, N J July 1 1. --Suit has
been started In the Chancery Curl bete
by Mrs. Frieda lienlseh. 3S West Kinney
street, to recover f,,00n she alleges her
husband lost tn stuck dealings on mar
gins with Walter H. Klcknihorst, a
broker at J Clinton street. Mrs Itonlsrh
Is Milng under an "act lo prevent gam
ing," which has been on the statute
luniks for forty-five years. The action is
the first of Its kind ever brought In
chancery.
Mr. I dekenhorst said neither the com
plainant nor her husband has any claim
arising out of Itenlsch's trnm-ac tiom
wllh bin brokerage firm He said th"
question was brought before the ways
and menus committee nf the Cniisoll
d.iled Stock Kxchaiige, and that the
committee after a Ihotough Inve-tlga-tloti
found .bat llenirli had no cause
for coinvlalnt, He said Menlei ad
mitted before the loiiunlttee that he had
made an actual prollt of nvproxlmatr ly
Jinn through his dealings with the IHcU-
enhorst ilrin.
NAVAL MILITIA OFF TO-DAY.
!w Vorkers Will Cruise un Three
llaMlehli.
Washington. July 14.- Secretary
PinleU. niinouncfil to. day tint the an,
lill.il cruise of tho naval militia on llie
Atlantic i oast woiihl lie.n to-morrow
and continue for two weeks. All naval
militia organisations will pai tlclpato
with the excentlnn of the organlzatlonr.
on the Pacific coast The cruise will
he made on the battleships Kearsarge,
Virginia, Maine. New Jersey, Kentucky,
Alabama, Illinois, Khmln Island and
Louisiana of the Atlantic leservc licet,
Hear Admiral .1. M. Helm will be In
command
The rhlps have been distributed at
llostou, New Yoik, 1'hll.nlelplila and
Norfolk. The crew. will he made up nf
apprnxlinatelv 40 tier cent, nf the tegu
lar navy men, and the remainder, both
officers and crew, will be composed of
Hie naval mllllla.
The battlrtdilp Maine has' been as
signed to the Second battalions of New
York ami New Jersey; Hie battleship
New Jersey to the Thlnl New York Hat
tallon anil the First New Jersey, and the
battleship Kentucky lo the First New-York,
U. S. NAVY COLLIER
SINKS; 142 ABOARD
Hector, Disabled in a Hurri
cane, Goes Down Xear
Charleston Lightship.
NO NEWS OF RESCIES
Vessel Bound for Snnto Do
mingo With Marines
Steamer Alamo Xear.
Charleston. S. C, July II. The big
naval miller Hector, carrying sixty ma
rines in addition to her crew of seventy
men and twelve olllcers, sank off Charles
ton late to-il.iy, according to a report
to-night from dpt. Hunt nf the tug
Vigilant, which tried to go to the Hec
tor's assistance. He was unable to say
wh'ther those aboard escaped.
The steamer Alamo bad bren standing
by the collier to-day. having responded
night from the Alamo. The sea still was
running high.
Th Hector left Pott Itoyal for Santo
Domingo yesterday. She attempted to
put Into port here when the stoim dis
abled her. but. according to ("apt. Hunt,
went down about tune and a half miles
structure remained above water.
The Hector displaced 11.200 tons, was
."S4 feet long, and was built at Sparrows
Point, Md., in I! S
Han Into llnrrlcniie.
The Hector was In command of Master
ii. F. N well. Th marines were In com.
mand nf First I .lr lit. Itobert IMwaid
she
been
to
make port.
The first Intimation that h- was in
serious difficulty c.ime In a wireless from
the Hector, dated 2:".", P. M.. which said :
"Fourteen miles south of Charleston,
have to degrrres starl-oard list."
At 2Sii-tbc Hector llahlitd an S. O. S.
signal and .old 'Think v.e ale sinking.'
Mesages wie at oiicm sent out from
the Charleston navy ard to the steamer
Alamo, the tug Vigilant, the lighthouse
Under C,vprcs, the w risking tug Itellef,
the SoiiiM'sei. the hum gmrd . utter am
tbe gulmat Padu -ah t rush to the as-
sisiaoce in me fm
,, I.,,.. n ...... I.. I.A
-
lle,-tor at 2 2.i was llaslied M
Charleston
"Heiter iigrouud sinking co-idltion.
Crew to leave ship. Mild help,
11PrlnK ,
The Alamo and the Somerset were tlieti
I ib"iit fifteen iii!Iim from the stricken 10I-
icr and making for her a-Mntu e. The
itellef also rMMrtcd she was un her way
.o Man, I by
At a 6S P M. lids message came.
"Hector asnuui.I ! n miles south
oiitheast i 'Ii il Ii "ton Light, bteahiug in
.wo. Itusli help "
At I :j I Jhe Honor whejcsied to the
Iamo
"Send help at mice
This was the last ivord heatd lioui
her.
The Hector earned mal. oil and More
valued nt $5i)o,nnti Tnc ship's value
was $!7:,, which was the contract
ptlce paid to the Maryland Steel Com
pany of Spanows Point, Italtlmorc,
which completed her In I'.'O'.'.
MAIL ROADS WIN POINT.
Ililllivay I'ay vtllrntlnn In (in In In
terstate ninmerce Hndj.
WAStllNi.ToN, July 14. All agieeiiieot
has been reached by the conferees on
the pi i I office appropriation bill by which
the Senate .unendiin nt, modified In some
respects but ret, lining Its suhstanll il fea
tures relating to railway mail pay, wnl
be kept In (lie bill. The agreement con
templates a rofeHttro to the lutetstate
Commerce Coiumlnslou of any question
relating to compensation for the railroad i
for carry ing the mail.
Tills Is a substantial victoty for th
carrelrs, which asked Congress to turn
Hie question over to the Interstate Com
merce Commission and end the lone coo.
ttoversy between the Hoveininent and
the roads ns to wnat should be thr iiilc
for measuring compensation, Postmast t
Heneral Itllileson has fought the pro
posal, Tiie report of thr conference on Hie
bill will probably be presented In bo,h
houses In-nmiTiiw
POPE MAY PLEAD FOR PEACE.
Second nnlcrar of Wnr's Start
lit He Occiialnn.
ItoMK. July It I'ope Benedict, It ,s
repotted In cliurih circles here. Is pre.
pirlng lo Issue a second appeal for pea v
on the second anniversary of the liej-l .
liiug of Ihe war, now only two weeks
away.
If an appeal is Issued II will contain
no direct pioposal of a truce The Pon
tiff does not Intend to lake the Initiative
unless he Is approached by on of the
belligerent".
Pope Benedict Is reported to lie study,
ing a plan for the prevention of future
wars.
Inquiry for Suniael 'rliiinrlr,
Wasiiinuton. July it. A icsolutloii
asking Hie Secielniy of Slate foe fur
ther mint illation cnucei nlug Siniucl
Schwartz, a further resident of New
,nrk, alleged to he held prisoner in
Kngland without ciinse, was adopted
to-day by the House,
I 4.1 ..r l.M..a..U,l SO,.. Tft V,u'
imsssr mm
Emperor Francis Joseph.
FRANCIS JOSEPH
IS REPORTED DYING
Members of Austrian Imperial
Family Summoned War
News Kept From Him.
Zff.tcil (via Paris). July H Mem
bers of the Austtlan Imperial family
have been summoned to Sehoetihruun be.
cause of the illness of the Kmperor Fran
cis Joseph, according to news despatches
from Iniibrucl.. Several specialists ate
attending the aged Klng-Ktnperov, and
the news of the war Is being withheld
from tit in
Numerous tepolts have been teelved
concerning the llltass of the Austtlan
Monateh. A despttch to TtiK St'N from
London on June IT said that "The Peo
ple," a London tmblU-.itU.iti. printed an
interview with a reliable nnitral who
had recently icturned from Vienna, and
who expressed the Ilrin conviction that
the llmpemr was dead.
Tiie neiitial said thai during demon,
stratlons In Vienna the Kmperor, Instead
of stepping out on the balcony nf the
palace, wa lifted up in a chair Al
though he was exposed to the view of
tin- peopl.. for .some time lie made no mo.
tlon. In the opinion of "The People's" In
formant the Kmpeior was dead, and his
embalmed Isjdy was being used tn quiet
the people of the capital by thr, pro-Hei-man
element, lest his death should caus4
a peace movement In Austria.
Four gnat tinge lies haw maiked the
lelgn of I'tancls .loeph. The last of
thee. the .issas.-lnatinn of his nephew
and heir, the Archduke Francis l'rdt
liand, at Sarajevo, mi June 2S It'll, led
to the great war
KING FLEES PALACE FIRE.
'nnnfantlne llnahen TlirmiKh
I'tmties ns summer llnme llnrns
Pakis, July It The summer palace
of King Coiisiantliie of t.reece in the
fornt of Talol 1ms been dtrned bv
llanie'. acd many persons have been
hurnr.l to dtaih. iccnrding to a wire
l.cs desiat. Il from thens to-day.
Tiie Die is believed to have been
slatted hy the ca relets uc of vagrants
wanderini: in the wood" The entire
lorest was burned While dlte.t'tis for-
slers in extinguishing Hie flames. King
Constantino found that his automobile in
Hie foret had beep surrounded by a
ling of flames, lie dashed out of the
ring on foot and readied another auto
mobile, which carrlfl him to safety.
It Is stated that many persons, in
cluding several nriny officers, were
trapped and burned lo death. The loss
in property is tixed at in.non.ooii francs
I $x,ooo,iinii i, Heslde the summer palace,
the pavilion of Queen Mother Olv'a and
Hie palace of the Crown Prince were nlso
ileslioyed It is thought that Hie tomb
of King Heorgc wa also rulueil by the
fl.tiiien.
Another lepoit reaching here ays that
King i 'oust. ml me, i.'ueeti Sophie and
members of the royal family look tefuge
at the home of Prince Nicholas In e.
phlsla,
PEACE WITH AUSTRIA URGED.
Itil.slim Sriitlinenl Is That Over
tures Should He Welcomed.
.siii,? iihU ,',ifrft MTiir Slx,
LoMuiN, July II ciunllng lo the
P'tlngiad i oi n spondciil of tin .Ifmulin;
'oil, time Is n strong feillng In manv
llltlllellll.il qlllllels In Itllssi.l 1 1 1.4 1 If
iistr..i again thiows out eeeis for a
separate peace Hiev should be wihomed
1 ,j the Allies, none of w liom teels low ard
Austria as thev all feci inward Hermany
The Pcttograd conespondent of the
Dnllii Mail learns that about a qiiartir
of a million Heriiim have he,n ilet .ulioil
from Hie other fronts to try to stop Hen,
Bruslloff'H adv. tine.
LARGE INCREASE IN STRIKES.
More In six Month Period
War lilt.,.
Than In
V.sillM.m. dull II. 'I here weic
more Mt'ikes and lockouls in the I "(lit . I
Stales in Hie six moi tlis ended Juno I
Hum in the year of Fa I a, llguies com
piled by the lnueaii of labor statistics
-bowed to-day Between I iccetliln r I
ami June I
leported. wl'
was 1.40a,
I.IS2 'abor disputes were.
diiimi; BM.i Hie number
In May alone ;t:u; sinkcs weie started,
Building' and metal iniilcs shuncd Hie
greatest strike activity, with mining
next, foil iwed by longslioi enicn ami
Height handlers and clothing linlm-li'lcs
Peiiusylianla and New Yolk bid the
greatest numb f I ibor disputes, Ohio
I ranking third, New Jersey fouith and
t Massachusetts filth,
BRITISH DRIVE
GERMANS BACK
FOR MILE GAIN
Make Rig Advances Along
Sonune; Counter At
tacks Repelled.
STRAIGHTEN" LINE
WITH FRENCH FORCES
'Surpassing, Thrilling Ar
tillery Spectacle," De
scription of Conflict.
IiON-noN, July 14. Tho lirltlsh armle
on the Homme have again swept for
ward nnd have captured several Im
portant Herman second positions. On
a front of four miles the 'British have
advanced to a, depth of a mllo nnd
have held all positions gained, In spite
of violent counter attacks.
Tho strategic Importance of the
British successes is. marked by the
straightening of their lino In con
formity with that of the FremJh, who
had hlthcrtto advanced at u much
greater Bpced than their allies. The
statements of press correspondents at
the front that the lirltlsh losses were
comparatively stnull, and the brief pre
liminary artillery preparation for the
attack, give Htroittr support to state
ments: that the ticrtUJit second lino wim
much less strongly fortlllcd than their
llrst defences.
Fierce Cniitilcr Atlark.
Fierce counter attacks made by th
Germans, In an effort to recomiuer
some of the ground captured by the
British In to-duy's drive, werr com
pletely crushed by tho Hrltlsli lire.
Kes'patche.s from the ft out say thai
the villages of Ilazentlii-le-HT-and and
Longueval, north of Montauban, and tho
remaining imrtlon nf Trone wood were
taken by the lirltlsh.
While It was expected th British
would not allow any great length of
time to ci.cpsc before continuing tucir
operations.. It whs hardly believed that
the second Herman line would l"! at
tacked after only one day of artillery
(reparation, for It wrq only on the day
before yesterday thst they completed
the capture of the first line In the. rc
gkm'bctwWn'.Uardaoiiurt and Ovlllcrs.
Attack Was a ftarprlsc
The direction or the attack, loo, was
sonu thing of a surprlic, for Instead of
pushing on towanl Comhles. Hen. Half
ch"e! to attack tho flank of the Her
mans who faced Coiitalmalsoti and
Dctll.os nnd those who Still OCCIIPV
I PoZiell'S
' The advame to Lnngweval and Itar.rn
' ilti-le.Hv.inil, If ncconipllsheil, gives fie
I Hrlil.sli possession of other Important
loads tunning In various directions,
nil ' ii Ii ive been ii great help to the Her
nial s in. Mipply Ins taeir iiimy directly
s nut ' i of the Ancie Itlver
Th'- Ao, uied Press correspondent at
ihe fiivt describe Hie attack as ur-oas-sini:
tint of July I as a great spec
tacle and thrilling dl-phy of artillery
I power. Characti rlstlc of tho lighting
IthioiiElioul the battle of the Sntnme,
Hie Hcnnans appeared to b" iinible to
bring up sufficient reserves to make mil-
icssfnl counter attaiks. A secoiul iouil
wli'ch In empliasleil by ocseners on Ih
,i t tn I side i.s that III fti-litlne at closs
quarters the Hermans. Mil tender fienly.
I) rape rate FlithtlnaT On.
Iiespatches from Sir Pouclas ll.ilg and
from the press eoi respondents! show
that the lighting has again been of the
heaviest character. At one point the
Herman, by a furious counter attack,
succeeded in driving the Hritish out of
Uazentln-le-Petlt They were Immediately
dilven out again by a lirltlsh Infantry
attack, and the village remained firmly
In British piosession.
The day's lighting resulted in a steady
lucieaso III BrltVh gains, leaving them
In possession of tho enemy's second po
sition from Bazentlii-le-l'etlt to Longue
val, and the whole of Ttones wood, A
number of prisoners! were taken, Incltid-Ii-.-
two Colonels and other superior of
llieis. Aceoiillng to press, con cspondeiilr,
lighting ,is continuing hotly late to-
il.lV
I II t tor lighting was proceeding In the
afternoon ill the woods beyond Iingle.
val and on high points of arldce occu
pied by the British during the day, with
the British ruffeiliig comparatively small
losses,
l.rrnian Serlnusly Threatened.
The positions gained to-day leave I li
Heimans scr.oiisly Ihlcatenrd at Pn7
teres, mi He main road from Albert lo
B.ipautpe, while possession of the ter
liliuy aiound Longueval brings the Brit
ish advance iuln line wilh the French a'.
Bard nirt
Further heavy Brltl-di casualty ll'ts
issued to-day give Hie names of n( of
tli is Killed, illl wounded and I, Tali men
killed and wounded.
The cnptuio of Longueval and Bein-Hn-le-Hrand
iinllealrs ilia I the ItrllMi
in yestirday's assault iid.iiiced eastward
ir noriliuanl from i 'onialnribou or
Miintatihah. and that Hiev appaiently
Iruc liioiuht their I lulu vtiug on a pir
with the Flench left and are ihrusiing u
salient between perrone, the immediate
French objective and B ipailine, the (mint
at which Ihe Hlltsli inoveiiK lit is re
iolei to be dlteeleil
t.oiicueval Is about three and a half
Inlles east of ( niitalinalsoii and Bnizatiu-
l.-Hrand Is midway between Hi town'.
.'A777.S7 I! HA 77vV HACK.
tiermnns Also Ixeeplnu I p lunruns
I'luht for erilnii.
Buiil.lN, July II I by wirdess In May.
ville). --New and violent duties ai
doing fought on doth sides of the River
1
