, l i
V
:v.v
H5-
,'
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL, WHERE THEY MAY
Vol. XXI.
GHIGAGO, JULY 15, 1916
No. 43
yj-wt
. . - -. -' v -J- . -u L
The Thompson-Brundage and the Deneen-West-Hull Factions
of the Republican Party Both Place Separate and. Dis
tinct Tickets in the Field for the Various Elective Offices
in Cook County. A Bitter Fight Will Be Waged Between
the Two Factions and the September Primaries Will Tell
Which Wing of the Grand Old Party Will Be on Top
THE SULLIVAN WING OP THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAVE SUCCESS
FULLY AND COMPLETELY ROUTED FORMER MAYOR CARTER
H. HARRISON AND HIS FOLLOWERS IN MAKING UP THE COUNTY
TICKET THE ONLY HARRISON MAN TO COME IN UNDER THE
WTRE WAS HON. MACLAY HOYNE, WHO WILL BE RE-NOMINATED
FOR STATE'S ATTORNEY.
HON. WILLIAM E. MASON, EX-UNITED STATES SENATOR FROM ILLI
NOIS WILL MAKE THE RACE FOR THE NOMINATION FOR CON
GRESSMAN AT LARGE.
HON. JULIUS JOHNSON OF MOLINE SEEMS TO BE FORGING WELL
TO THE FRONT FOR THE NOMINATION FOR AUDITOR OF PUBLIC
ACCOUNTS FOR THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
HON. LEN SMALL, PRESIDENT OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
KANKAKEE, "ILL., GEORGE E. KEYS, VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE
FARMERS NATIONAL BANK, SPRINGFIELD, ILL., ALBERT J. OL
SON AND JOHN J. STOWE OF GIRARD CITY ARE THE LEADING RE
PUBLICAN CANDIDATES FOR THE NOMINATION FOR STATE
TREASURER OF ILL.
The big Republican and Democratic
politicians started in the first of tins
week to do business for the Septem
ber primaries, and from now on until
September 13th which will be an un
lucky day for some of them there will
be a great deal of hustling among them
in all parts of this state.
Here in Cook county they will have
a knocking down and dragging out
time of it for his Honor Mayor William
Hale Thompson, Edward J. Brundage
and their shouters and retainers those
who receive their bread and butter and
house rent by making a very loud noise
:i!l the time, feel that they are power
ful enough to crush out and trample
down all opposition to their onward
inarch have selected and placed a com
plete slate ticket in the field without
consulting the likes or dislikes of the
Hon. Charles S. Deneen. Rov U. West
and State Senator Morton D. Hull, who
have followed suit called their hand
or bluff and gone them one better and
have also ground out a full county or
slate ticket without consulting the
wishes of the city hall end of the Re
publican party, and it wiU be a life
and death struggle between the head
rhiefs or bosses and as well as be
tween their tin horn followers to see
who is who and no one can tell until
the close of the September -primaries
which side will win out and will bo
entitled to ride the winning or the suc
ci'ssful political horses for be it re
uu'inbercd that there are some mighty
rich pickings at stake this coming fall
and none of tho politicians either Re
publican or Democratic will be able to
rnjoy those rich pickings unless they
ran brush bv the forthcoming pri-
tuaries.
Tho Thompson-Brundage slate
tii-ket follows:
States 's Attorney Harry B. Miller,
Thirty-third ward; Recorder Leland
S. Happ, Eighteenth ward; Circuit
lourt Clerk A. W. Miller, Twelfth
ward; Superior Court Clerk Aid. John
Kjcllnnder, Twenty-third ward; Board
of Review Charles A. Williams,
Thirty-second ward; Assessor (full
term) George K. Schmidt, Twonty
tifth ward; Assessor (short term)
Robert R. Levy, Third ward; Coroner
lVter M. Hoffman; Surveyor Harry
Kmorson, Oak Park;- President Sani
tary Board Aid. James H. Lawley,
Fourteenth ward; Sanitary Trustees
lavid B. Jones, Eighth ward, and
Matthias Mueller, Twenty-ninth ward;
Municipal Judges (full term) Hosea
W. Wolls, Eighteenth ward; John B,,
Newcomer, Thirty-fifth ward; Anton T.
Zcman, Thirty-first ward; Wells M.
Cook, Twenty-fifth ward; Prank W.
Hoyt, Thirteenth -ward; Gustav E.
Heerly, Twenty-third ward; John W.
Richardson, Second ward; Howard W.
Hayes, Sixth ward; Thomas J. Peden,
Eighth ward, and John F. Haas, Nine
teenth ward; Municipal Judge (short
term) Bernard Barasa, Twenty-second
ward.
The Deneen-West-Hull-Progressive
slate or ticket:
State's Attorney John E. Northup;
Recorder Joseph P. Haas; Board of
Review Edward R. Litzinger; Board
of Assessors (long term) Pelix A.
Norden; Board of Assessors (short
term) Charles Ringer; Clerk Circuit
Court William, P. Lipps; Clerk Su
perior Court John Siman; President
Sanitary District Charles H. Sergei;
Sanitary District Trustee Edward I.
Williams; Sanitary District Trustee
Thomas W. Gilmore; Judge Circuit
Court Ben M. Smith.
The old ldng standing political fight
between the Honorable Carter H. Har
rison, who was one of the coldest and
most selfish mayors Chicago has ever
had and the Honorable Roger C. Sulli
van and those who march under his
banner and for about one hundred
times the "man of Destiny" and his
one horse army was again this week
routed by the adherents of the Honor
able Roger C. Sullivan who proceeded
to frame up a county slate or ticket
without fully realizing that there are
any other Democrats in this neck of
the woods except those who radiate
within his shadow, for only one dis
tinguished official whom it is claimed
is friendly to the former Democratic
mayor, was honored with a place on
tho Sullivan slate or ticket and that
is the Hon. Maclay Hoyne who will,
be renominated to make the race for
State's Attorney and his past splen
did record in that office will make him.
a mighty hard man for any one to
beat at the county election in, Novem
ber.
The Sullivan ticket follows:
State's Attorney Maclay Hoyne;
Recorder Joseph P. Connery; Circuit
Court Clerk John W. Rainey; Superi
or Court Clerk James C. Gavin, Cor
oner" James B. Bowler; Assessor (six
year term) Martin J. O'Brien; As
sessor (to fill vacancy) Joseph Cepak;
Board of Review Thomas J. Webb;
County Surveyor William P. Feeney;
President Sanitary District Thomas
M. Sullivan; Sanitary Trustees Jo
seph Rushkewicz and James A. Long:
Superior Court Judge (to fill vacancy
Joseph Sabath; Circuit Judge (to fill
vacancy) Jacob H. Hopkins. Munic
ipal Court Judges to come later.
Hon. William E. Mason who was at
ono time United States senator from
Illinois, who is ono of tho best orators
in this country and one of the warm
supporters of mayor William Hale
Thompson has entered the race for the
nomination for Congressman at large
and it goes without saying that he has
thousands of friends iu all parts of
this state who would be highly de
lighted to see him land the plum.
Hon. Julius Johnson of Moline, who
is one of the most succssful business
men in this state, seems. to be rapidly
forging to the front in his race for the
nomination for. Auditor of Public
Accounts for the state of Illinois. So
far there are only four Republican
candidates for the nomination for state
Treasurer of Illinois and they are the
Hon. Lee Small, President of the First
National Bank of Kankakee, 111., Mr.
George E. Keys, vice-president of the
Farmers National Bank of Springfield,
111., Albert J. Olson and John J. Stoine
of Girard City who made a close race
against the Hon. Andrew Russell for
the same position in 1914, all four of
them are high class business men and
will make first class public officials, Mr.
Small having honorably and faithfully
served in that capacity in the past.
WILL ORGANIZE WORKING MEN
IN TUBERCULOSIS FIGHT.
Association of Employers and Em
ployees Proposed with Fund for Con
sumptive Workers.
Organization of all of the working
men and women of the United States,
including the sstematic collection of
funds from both employers and em
ployees for local anti-tuberculosis cam
paigns, is proposed in a report issued
today by The National Association for
the Study and Prevention of Tubercu
losis, entitled "Working Men's Organ
izations in Local Anti-Tuberculosis
CampaignsV."
The report discusses various experi
ments that have been tried by working
men in different parts of the United I
States to organize for effective service
iu the anti-tuberculosis campaign, and
recommends a plan which would com
prehend the following features, based
upon the best in all the schemes
studied:
(1) A simple organization repre
senting employers and employees close
ly allied with tho local anti-tuberculosis
society of the community. The
organization will provide for the es
tablishment of a tuberculosis fund
either on the basis of individual fac
tories or groups of factories.
(2) A plan for collecting funds to
be used for the relief of tuberculous
workers and their families by free will
offerings from employers and em-
k-
' :;:- jBmS&lmMi'- iiiiiri MflwrHPii irfflfMBiMii .
HON. THOMAS CAREY.
President of the Carey Brick Company which is one of the most extensive and
most modern, plants of its kind in this country; extremely wealthy real es
tate owner, who also owns the famous Hawthorne Race Course, which has
been leased to the Hlinois Jockey Club, and has been put in apple pie order.
He is also one of the popular and prominent wheel horses of the Democratic
party of Chicago.
Thomas Carey,
from the old 29th
former Alderman
ward who was a
power in the city council when he was
one of its members who simply plays
at the game of politics for the love of
the thing and to assist some of his
many friends, is by far one of the best
known figures in the business world in
Chicago, for many years he has been
the president of the Carey Brick Com
pany with offices on the fourth floor of
the Chamber of Commerce Building
and the brick plant which is located
in tho northwestern part, of the city,
is one of 'the most modern and most ex-
ployees. Employers will bo urged intensive panta of its kind in the United
all cases to duplicate" the joint collec- gtatpq
tions of employees. The collections
will not be a tax or assessment, and
will constitute a "special tuberculosis
fund in addition to those of regular
benefit societies.
(3) A systematic campaign for med
ical examination of all workers at year
ly or more frequent intervals.
(4) The appointment of special com
mittees to give relief to fellow-workers
and their families suffering from tu
berculosis from the funds collected.
Any worker in a community where a
fund is started who develops tubercu
losis will be cared for.
(5) Carrying on of educational and'
legislative work through tho organiza
tion. (6) The collection' of statistics
about occupational mortality from tu
berculosis. Every anti-Aberculosis association
in the United"States will be urged to
use this report as a basis for organiz
ing the factories and shops in its corn-
He has long since justly earned the
reputation of being a clean cut, clear
or level-headed man of affairs and his
word is his bond in all business trans
actions, aside from being the chief
owner of the Carey Brick Company he
owns much valuable real estate in this
city; he and his devoted family re
sides in one of the finest homes in the
city at 4427 Grand Blvd; and from
October 1, 1899, down to the present
time once week a copy of this paper
finds its way to the beautiful and ele
gant home of Mr. and Mrs. Carey, be
ing one of our good friends during all
that length of time, he has been one
of its steadfast supporters. In addi
tion to their lovely Grand Blvd. home,
Mr. and Mrs. Carey own one of the
very finest winter homes in Los An
geles, Cal., where for many years they
and the rest of the family spend the
winters.
The famous Hawthorne race course
is also included in the real estate hold
ings of Thomas Carey' and which he
has lately leased to the Illinois Jockey
Club and for the past month an army
of workmen including fifteen or twenty
Colored men have under the direction
of Mr. George W. Heck, been busily en
gaged in putting tho track and every
thing else in connection with it in apple
pic order.
Thousands and thousands of new
chairs have replaced the pte ones in
tho grand stand, which has been ro-
painted from end to end. The cafe
has been thoroughly re-modelled and
any one can enjoy their meals or
luncheon in it, with the greatest of
comfort. The ladies comfort or rest
rooms, have also been thoroughly re
decorated and refurnished and they
will more than favorably compare with
the rest and comfort rooms in the
leading hotels of the city.
It can be truly said that Mr. Carey
has spared no money or expense in re
transforming Hawthorne into a thing
of beauty and be it understood that he
is not connected with the present meet,
which begins this afternooif at 2:30
o'clock, Derby Day, and runs until
Saturday, July 29th, making thirteen
days of racing, which will be held un
der the auspices of the Illinois Jockey
Club, incorporated, with Frank A.
Froehling, President, Eugene V. Bei
feld, Secretary and Treasurer, with of
fices in Hotel Sherman. Many of tho
best and most prominent business men
in this city are assisting tho officials of
the Illinois Jockey Club to re-establish
honest horse racing in Chicago.
munity in the anti-tuberculosis cam
paien. "This is not the best form of
co-operatUn of workers in the anti
tuberculosis campaign" says tho re
port. "The ideal form would be the
adoption of the German or British
health and sickness insurance plans to
American experience. The plan pro
posed here is a near approach toward
insurance against tuberculosis since it
proposes co-operation of the worker, the
employer and the state, the latter in
caring for consumptives in public in-j
stitutions at reduced rates."
JAILED FOR INSULTLNG COLORED
GIRLS.
Columbus, O. R. B. McCIurg, white,
who claims Greenville, Pa., as his
home, and who says he came to Colum
bus to join the army, fas given $10
and costs and 10 days in the city prison
by Judgo Ruth in municipal court,
last Wednesday morning, for insulting
two Colored girls at Mt. Vernon and
Cleveland avenues, Tuesday night.
McCIurg was arrested by Sergeant
Newport, who is said to have had &
hard time keeping McCIurg from be
ing mobbed by a crowd while waiting
for the patrol.
BURY SIX TROOPERS TODAY.
Bodies of Negro Soldiers Slain at Car-
rizal Reach Washington From FJ.
Paso.
Washington, D. C, July 13. Tho
bodies of six Negro troopers killed at
Carrizal arrived here today from El
Paso and will be buried tomorrow with
full military honors in Arlington ceme
tery. They have not been identified.
,
4
V
.' .4ici&&.&:
fcSV-1
