HE ARIZONA REPUBLIC
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
AN
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JULY o, 191G
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVn, NO. 58
T
RANDS?
PS HG Mllttlffil IEISTA BAHIS
j& - j& j& j& j& j?
. .1
Trke IBrnftDsDa
AFTER BRIEFEST PRELIMINARY
; BOMBARDMENT SHE ARMY
! ADVftNGESTD DEPTH OF MILE
n-
TO DISCUSS NAVAL
BUILDING PROGRAM
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
After the briefest preliminary bombardment which has preceded any im
portant action on the western front, the British armies on the Somme again '
have swept forward and have captured several important German second!
positions. On a front of four miles the British have advanced to a depth of a .
mile and have held all positions gained in spite of counter attacks. j
The strategic importance of the British successes is marked by the!
WASHINGTON. July 14. The
senate today disposed of all the
less important sections of the naval
bill and cleared the way for be-
ginning debate tomorrow on the
j enormously increased building pro
j gram recommended by the naval
committee. Several days of dis
; I cusslon are expected on the build
ing section which provides for eight
capital ships in lftl" instead of the
five asked by the house and con
templates com4etion of the navy
general board's five-year program
within the next three years. So
.that the building debate might be-
gin soon as the senate meets to- j
morrow the committee amendment
embodying it was read before ad-
journment tonight. Virtually all of
III GDEEIER
1
SIISBUTCH
REPORTED SAFE
17
I
straightening of their line in conformity with that of the French who had tne committee amendments consid-
GENERAL BLISS LOOKING
GUARDS' CAMPS OVER
hitherto advanced at a much greater speed than their allies. The brevity
f the preliminary bombardment coupled with the statements o? press cor- j
respondents at the front that the British losses were comparatively small !
lend support to unofficial statements that the German second line was mucrfjQ
less strongly fortified than their first deTenses.
On the French portion of the Somme front no action of importance was
recorded but in the French official statement it was announced that the
bombardment of German positions on the Belgian front had reached a point
of the greatest intensity.
These announcements were similar to those made by the British pre
ceding the opening of their great offensive and may possibly indicate that an
other big forward movement by the entente allies may be attempted at the
extreme western end of the battle line.
Another point of significance in the day's official war reports is that tho
nly actions reported on the Verdun front were assaults made by the French.
These assaults were noted in the German official statement which made no
claims of any German offensive actions.
On the Russian front the great battle of the Stokhod is still raging, with
the issue remaining in the balance. The most important news from the Rus
sian side is in regard to the operations in the Caucasus. The Grand Duke
Nicholas reports continuous and substantial gains against the Turks and ap
parently is launching another great offersive in the region of Erzerum and
Baiburt, aimed at the very heart of the Turkish empire.
CHAKIJCSTO.N. July 14.-Of-
ficials at the navy yard here, late
tonight announced that the crew
! of the navy collier Hector, report- !
ed sunk off here, had been taken
off in small boats. A wireless
message, it was said, has been
sent out. asking all vessels to j
ered today were adopted without ! j ! watch for the boats. The Hector
objection.
i ;
I I !
mnmm no 11
i hi uiuiiuiu uu !c
i n
Counter Attacks
Are Repulsed By
British Forces
Great Task Is
Barely Started
Say The British
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCIS, July
was aground and breaking in two I
late tonight, according to an an-
nouncement at the Charleston navy
yard. Her exact location was not j
known, it was said, but other re-
ports had her about nine miles off I
Charleston light ship. I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j The number of men asking release
SAN ANTONIO, July 14. General from service on1 the plea that they
Tusker H. Bliss looked over the big j have dependent relatives has not been
camp of national guardsmen here to- ! made public, but it was said today that
day. Accompanied by General Funs- the requests were coming in hundreds,
ton, the assistant chief of staff, who has j From the state organizations many are
been sent to the border to prepare a , yet being dropped because of physical
ucidiifu or me icuriai niair j ueieciw anu in some cases tne uisposi
' .. .... . l. .,,.,..,..., ....... ; . e . , '
i ii', ,m mc nnirLdij ,,1 wai, i.t ( noil OL Loose laillllg lo quamy IS prov-
i ited the headquarters of the Illinois ing puzzling. Held at the hospital here
! forces. I there are eight negroes. They came
It is improbable that General Bliss here as members of the Eighth Illinois,
I will ask for the men to be paraded at j;i negro regiment. They were not mus-
any point on the border. The informa- tered in at Springfield and the medical
! tion he wants will be contained in the : examiner here rejected them. Army
; answers to questions regarding the ! officers are studying military law and
j health of the men, the sanitary condi- ; precedent for some indication as to
I Hons under which they are living, and i who shall pay their board and their
the general fitness of the individuals , transportation back to Chicago, and
1 and organizations. ; meanwhile the rejected negroes are
j General Bliss expects to leave Moil- j pleasing convalescent patients with
j day for Brownsville and then begin an their banjo playing.
. investigation that will lead him east- j Reports received at General Fun-
ward along the border as far as ' stem's headquarters indicate that all
t Arizona.
HDPES TO BREAK
OUTLAWS' PIER
IN CHIHUAHUA
is quiet all along the border today.
EPIDEMIC CURE
Republican A. P. Leases Wire
Ni:V YORK, July 14. Medical ex-
IRepublican A. P. Leased Wire ,
CHARLESTON, S. C, July 14. The I
l.ii. n;i"nl -,.lti,.f- t,'l,,r mi rrt imr uivlv I
marines in addition to the crew of 70
men and 12 officers, sank off Charles
ton late today, according to a report
tonight from Captain Hunt of the tug
Valiant which tried to, go to the Hec
tor's assistance. He was unable to
say w hether those aboard escaped. The
steamer Alamo had been standing by
the collier today, having resnded to
her calls when she was disabled some
N EG QT1 AT1QHSIB0RDER TROOPS
VPURMPr P
LGI
ii,.rtu liattlitK. :iL';:insl the enider.HC
..... . . ,, . . h bn miles of shore n last nights hurr -
of infantile paralysis which has cost
..... . j- .cane. Static conditions were such that
,!4l' lives in this citv expressed di- . . " .
.. .... , ,no wireless renort could be obtained
ergent views today upon me emci- . .. .. , ..
cm y of injections of adrenalin in the
soine as a remedy for the disease,
MelUer of
from the Alamo tonight. The sea still
was running high.
The Hector left I'ort Royal for Santo
Ixmlngo yesterday. She attempted to
put into port here when the storm dis-
jiilud l.nt u,-,-..r-Hi.rr . I -,. ,... t
nounced tonight that physi.-ian, who
recommended by Dr. S. J
the Rockefeller institute.
Health Commissioner Kmcrson
if Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOVIjON, uly 14. Fierce counter
"V 5 ''mans m at. u ,vta l.ondon)-Even the phl-gmat-
conquer some or me. British and general staff officers are
grourd captured by the British in to- j sIlnwin!f el.ltin ovt.r tne resu, this
lavs drive were completely erunhn' ; l(,rnilMf of the t)if,ht atta(.k ;iKainst
by the British force, according to tho , tnc ;t.rmans second lines, although
official statement Issi-od by the war ; careful to state that the great task
lun.fcliu . against a riowprfnl tiu- is on!v l.arelv
It is now porjible to cive further started. Soon after daylight, the jov
rletails of the action begun at day j fui news t the British sue. ess sliprd
br.ak this morning. Having driven into a telephone message over the
he enemy b; ( 1; step by step to his 'area occupied bv the British afmv
second system of d-fenses.,1 he period: As a spectacle to an eye witness,
from July 11 to Jjly 1? was main-' this action of the second big stage of
ly spent by ,ur troops in bomb-rri- , ..he battle of the Somme surpassed that
lug formidable enemy positiors and of July i. Taking needed ground for
in mukintr other nfceijury prepara-' organizing new trenches and throwing
tian for further advance. lout small parties, who dug themselves
"This morning, after an intense , m the army has been gradually gnia
bombarflm'Tt, the nfsavlt was launch-I ing a position from Ovillers. La Bois
ed at 3-23 i. m. The enemy was driv-! selle and Montauban, a distance of
en from his trenches on the whole four miles f.om which to deliver a
ft iiit '. attnek and many prisoners blow, until many points were within
fell Into onr hands. j 2ft0 yards of the German second line.
"Fierce flshting contii imd all day . Meanwhile, the 'shells of the British
as a result of which we have steadil I artillery could be seen cutting the
(Continued on Page Two)
..mo adieniilin must do so on then
own icsjiom-ibilitv. Only after hun
ilnits of cases had been treated ami
the supposed remedy bad been fullj
tested, he declared, could it.i merits
be definitely determined.
miles from the Charleston lightship.
Captain Hunt said part of the collier's
supers! rucnlVe remained above wawr.
The Hector displaced 1 1.2(10 tons, was
3K4 feet long and was built in l!iOX.
Reports gathered today after re-es-
MQ CTTT MOT r
IUIIlILI ILLIIIIUc I j LAullnliU
ARE ADVANCING FHDM THEBHUSH
Federal health experts were mure la,llf(lirn,1lt f communication showed
They are giving close at- ;hat darn.lKe than lm(1 l(een nt,
optimistic.
tentlon to
the use or adrenalin a..u iieVed was done by the hurricane which
have observed, it was staieu, inai
patients have been helped in some
swept the South Carolina and Georgia
coast last night. One negro was killed
instances, but they are unwilling at , hPre u!1, one ,irownPd in Savannah,
present to predict its potency as a The greatest, damage was to poles
cure. " land wires of telejihone and telegniph
Tne health department announced companies. A number of window s were
that practicing physicians have used broken and hundreds of trees blown
adrenalin for years on patients with down; The passenger liner I'nape from
weak hearts and that IT. Abel of ,ew York, which took shelter here from
Johns Hopkins hospital, Baltimore, the storm last night, left for Jackson-
(Continued on I'age Three.
CAUCUS TQQAY TO CONSIDER
THE LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
J' Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
' VASBINCTON. July 14. Dcmc-1
cratj: rf the senate will caucus to- j
mororw night to further consider the'
legislative prnyrp.m for the remaind-i
cr of the session. Some democratic
senators are making urgent appeahj
for consideration of special measure- j
not included in the imuerttlve pro-!
gram drawn up Vv partv leaders and
democratic and republican conferees '
have been unable to finnlly agree on
w-hat measures should be disposed of.
before adjournment. I
At a Joint conference with th?j
democrats early this week, iepubli-
can senators agreed to the program!
inclm'.ing tho appropriation rev?nue'
shipidng and ci.nupt practices bills.
There v.es no agreement, howen r.
on the child labor, workmen's com
Iens;'.tion anil immigration measures
and their champions now are. insist
ing tnat they should not be deferred
until next session. Other lomocraU
n.c pressing for action on the voca
tional odccationhl bill, the sjifrage
amen lmei.t and numerous othei
measures.
Serator Galliner, the republicai.
leader, told the senate today that
how toon an adjournment was report
ed, was entirely within th hands o.'
the democrats and the republicans
would cood-paturedly co-operate in
completing the program and would
report to no obstructive tactics. The
republicans, he said, wanted to go
heme for the campaign as. badly as
did tho democrats.
Oomoeratic lea lers realize that flnai
passage of the nnval and army appro
priation bijls a'id tKe revenre and
shipping measures alone will require
four or five weeks at least and that
if any other measures are to be tak
en ijp the idea of an adjournment by
September 1 must be abandoned.
The hou3e is expected to complete
I lie entire legislative program sug
g.sled by President Wilson by pass
age tomorrow of the Ruckcr corrupt
practices bill. When Majority Lead
er Kitchin toek a report on the sit
uation to 'he White House today tho
president said he had nothing ftirth
cr to suggest. Several of the admir
istrallon measures passed bv the
house are eertain not to be reached
1 y the senate.
I.'niil the senate is ready to adlourn
the horse will mark time holding per
functory daily sessions to receive con
ference reports.
a
I I
I MR. HUGHES COMING j
J WEST TO SPEAK I
wa the first to derive it from adre
nal's. Dr. Louis C. Ager. one of Dr. Km
erson's aides, referring to the work
being done in hospitals declared the
percentage of total recoveries from
infantile paialysis will be larger than
Was exieetd at first.
Barents eager to take their children
out of ti e city are finding it increas
ingly difficult. -Many tried to do so
today and failed because the quar
antine against the city is growing
more strict
A man reported to the health de
rartmeut today that he started with
his child on an automobile trin to
California and was turned buck at
Wechawken, N. J., F.dgewood. N. J..
vllle teiday.
(Continued on Page Three)
Navy Wireless Fails
WASHINGTON, July 14. Fp to a
late hour tonight all efforts of the navy
wireless to ascertain whether there had
been loss of life in the sinking of the
naval collier Hector off Charleston
had been unavailing. A series of calls
for helj) from the collier, stopping ab
ruptly at four p. m., gave rise to grave
fears for the safety of those aboard,
but officials believed there still was a
possibility that they had escaped.
Five" brief messages, all indicating
that the collier was in a serious plight,
reached the navy department during
the afternoon. One of the last of them
came at 4 o'clock saying that th? vessel
(Continued on Page Three)
DEUTSCHLAND RELOADS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, July 14. Before the
last billets of iron used for ballast had
been taken from the lower holds of the
German submarine merchantman
Keutschland this afternoon, the loading
of the return cargo was begun. Load
ing was discontinued a lew nours
later, however, and tonight stevedores
were still taking out tne iron n..iei.
Scran rubber was the tirst gooos pm
into the submarine. There were strips
of only a few pounds to mg pieces m
20 and 25 pounds. The rubber had,
been packed in cases in the warehouse
of the Kastern J-orwaruing
ii'hiii, thlu loading was proceeding a
gang of men was set to work scraping
the sides of the vessel, preparing n.e.u
for a fresh coat of paint.
I BRTDOKHAMPTON, July 14.
Five of the 12 cities where Charles
K. Hughes will deliver speeches on
his transcontinental trip had been
selected tentatively tonight. They
I are: Detroit, August 7; Chicago,
probably August 8; St. Paul or
Minneapolis, probably August 9 or
10; San Francisco and Los Ange
I les with dates yet to be announced.
Mr. Hughe-s said the only one of
the five which had been finally de
I termined upon was Detroit, where
he will open his campaign. He
I thought it almost certain he would
speak in Chicago and either St.
Paul or Minneapolis. Whether he
will soeak in San Francisco or Los
I Angeles before or after his two
weeks' vacation In the Rockies liaa
not been determined, he said.
D
The force of policemen guarding the
pier where the Deutschland is berthed
was increased tonight. A patrolman
was placed on the tug Timmons and
another on the launch Efco, both of
which vessels are near the submarine.
Captain Kivnig on his arrival, as
sured the custom officials that twelve
days might be spent in port, because of
the time consumed in unloading. To
day the members of the submarine's
crew were notified by the captain that
they might accept invitations for en
tertainment up to July 24.
In a big batch of mail and telegrams
of congratulations for Captain Koenig
from all over the country was a cable
gram from Admiral Silva I 'alma of
the Chilean navy, which read: "Con
gratulations on the inauguration of a
new maritime era."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Julv 14. The in
formal negotiations for the settle
ment of issues between the tnited
States and General Carranza are un
derstood to have advanced a long
step today when Acting Secretary
I 'oik and Kliseo' Arredondo. Mexican
ambassador-designate, held their third
conference since General Carranza's
proposal for a diplomatic adjustment
was reccicd and accepted.
Although both Mr. Polk and the
ambassador declined to say what mat
ters were under discussion, thero
were indications that the. conversa
tions had passed into the definite
stage where specific questions were
eing formulated for probable sub
mission to a. joint international com
mission.
The commission plan of settling
differences between the two countries
is provided for in the treaty of 1S4S.
Unofficial advices from Mexico City
have indicated that General Carranza
favored resort to it In the present
case and Mr. FolK Is relieved to
have aceceeled to the suggestion des
pite the belief of the state depart
ment officials that more could be
accomplished through continuance of
the informal conferences with Mr.
Arredondo.
President Wilson discussed the
euestion with some of his advisers
toc!ay and the fact that no interrup
tion of the Polk-Arredondo confer
ence resulted was taken as an indi
cation that the president was satis
fied with the trend of the negotiations.
General Carranza's note proposing
diplomatic settlement narrowed the
istaie to two specific points, the anxi
ety of the Crated States for protec
tion of its frontier, and the feeling
of the de facto government that
presence of the United States troops
in Mexico menaced friendly relations.
Secretary Lansing's reply did not go
into the points to be negotiated but
it is assumed that General Carranza's
definition of the issues is in the main
satisfactory to the I'nited States if
it does not predicate Mexican action
against the proposition ef the im
mediate withdrawal of the American
troops.
It is not known whether the pow
ers of the negotiators finally decided
upon will include authority to fix the
time and condition under which
American troops will be withdrawn.
Mr. Arredondo issued a statement
tonight warning against sensational
stories published throughout this
country by those who desire inter
vention. "I beg to warn the American peo
ple,'' lie said, "against the falsity of
reports published within the last few
days,, constituting- an actual propa-
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRKSIOO, Texas, July 14. One de
tachment of the United States border
patrol fired on a second detachment
near here today mistaking it for a
bo.lv of Im edits. Ooe soldier, Private
Milhottn, of the Sixth cavalry, was
wo'in.led. '
Milhcun, with several other troop
ers was returning to camp with sev
eral r-"!id of horses the-y had rounded
un. Nearing a small thicket in wnicn
they detected a movement, they call
ed out and lired several shots. A
patrd, hidden in the brush, mistak
ing them for enemies, fired upon
them. Milhoun being shot through
Republican A. P. Leased W're
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex., July 14.
General Matias Ramos, directing the
government forces operating against
Villista bandits in southern Chihua
hua, is redisposing his troops prepar
atory to a quick, powerful drive
which, it is hoped, will break the out
laws' power in that section. General
Jacinto Trevino, military commander
of the northeast, announced tonight.
Reports from General Ramos, who
has established his base of operations
at Parral, said that he had the main
bandit forces practically surrounded
south of Sombreretillo and expected to
force a fight as soon as he had his
local commands disposed to his lik
ing. Following an inspection trip to Ro
sario, he despatched heavy reinforce
ments from Parral for the Rosario
garrison. General Ramos reported that
he was moving these troops "with a
view to future operations" and added
that a larger garrison at Rosario is
necessary because of the heavy losses
suffered by the Carrancistj. forces at
Corralitos, San Salvador and Cerro
Blanco.
General Ernesto Garcia, commanding
the Parral garrison, also reported to
General Trevino today that all danger
of a successful new attack upon the
town by the bandits had vanished with
the arrival of General Ramos' troops.
These he said, have repaired the rail
road and telegraph lines from Jiminez
to Parral, which the bandits destroyed
in several places ontheir retreat.
General Trevino announced that re
ports from all other points in his dis
trict, including Tampico, indicated
quiet. He discussed also the possibil
ity of assigning some ef the large
forces of the troops at his command
as garrisons in the mining centers of
the state that the mining and smelting
industries may shortly resume oper
ations. A declaration that he and all other
members of the Carranza government
are mutually united with the firm de
termination of establishing order in
Mexico was made today by General
Jacinto Trevino, military commander
of the northeast, in a statement given
to the Associated Press.
General Trevino said he made the
the jaw. He was brought here, where .statement because he had received pri
it was asserted his wound is not dan- vate information that part of the
gcrous.
Aviators Are Safe
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, COLO
NIA DURBAN. Mex.. July 14. (Via
wireless to Columbus) Aviators Ra
der and Piooks, who flew west from
here two davs ago and failed to re
American press was declaring that his
had revolted from General Carranza
and was even planning to ally him
self with the Yillistas.
"There are contemptible persons who
wish to see trouble continue in Mex
ico." sajd the general's announcement.
'These are as bad in their own way as
n.... ...... -- - . i iirse die
turn, came into camp late today, both villa and his gang of cutthroats. They
saie.
I want to stir up enmity between Mex-
Their engine stalled in the flight, ! jco anfi the United States.
hurried descent which was
safety but on ground so
forcing
made in
rough that it was impossible to re
ascend after the engine was again
running. They walked fifty-nine miles
until today when auto relief party
picked them up bringing them here.
They reported seeing ro bandits nor
Mexican soldiers, but
herder shot at them
"Does anyone think that I or any
other prominent supporter of the gov
ernment would be so extremely foolish
as to start further trouble at this time
when, after all our mutual hard work
we have at last dominated the coun
try and can look forward soon to an
unexampled era of peace and hither-
tid that a to unknown era of prosperity, for
during the! which we all so honestly long?
flight. The bullet whistled close to
(Continued on Page Eight)
"We are all mutually united under
(Continued on Page Three)
CARRANZA CERTAIN THAT
WfR WILL NOW BE AVOIDED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO. CITY, July 14. General
Carranza in an interview today said
that the status of the negotiations
with Washington was very satisfac
tory as the result of good will shown
to each other by Mexico and the
United States.
"Thanks to this feeling of good
will, the first chief continued, "we will
bo able to avoid war. War is some
thing I do Viot desire, but if there- were
no other remedy for the situation I
would enter upon it."
General Carranza, however, refused
to discuss the situation as it relates
to the possible action of President
Wilson or of the Latin-American na-
hf.t?f:s ptacram of Germany's supersubmarine that brings cargo across ocean
LLtUUIl. WIUHWKfl,ni.llTnft
i MOTOR FOR SURFACE c,nr
(.SUBMERGED DRIVING j
i DRIVING
PETROL
MOTOR FOR ,
RUDDER
TWIN
SCREWS RUDDER
I II it-Ufc.irLA.iiiijfcu'i
jUPEWSCOPELS -f .' -
Li 0pIp5tw& ' TORPEDO ROOM- , ' i
LB Ort:RATiNb sfCE USED 0 VENTILATOR
-UL U.' FOR CARGO U-vlimiilhilik -
JJL1 f Y .. tM APE : 1
f? 4JVJAU I C.KJ uatv-Tj. r X
CONNING
rc-Anc QUARTERS
V HATCH j CAPTAINS CABIN
TORPEDO TUBES -SPACE;
' -,-USED FOR CARGO
rawest
HEAVY OIL FUEL
lUSftlCATINGOlL STORAGE BATTERIES STORAGE BATTERIES STORAGE
tions which offered to mediate in the
trouble between the United States and
Mexico. Within a short time, the first
chief said, there would be incorporated
in the constitution of Mexico all tho
reforms which now find a place in the
program of the constitutionalists. In
a large measure, he declared, some of
these reforms already are in operation
and there remains only their incor
poration ints the fundamental laws of
the country.
As to the holding of a presidential
election. General Carranza said that it
would take place as soon as the work
of reconstructing the constitution had
been completed and when the country
was completely at peace.
The de facto government, the first
chief asserted, will pass a law of am
nesty so that all Mexicans who have
left the country for one reason or an
other can return jf they desire.
Such a law however, he said, would
not be promulgated as long as tho
government was not on a time basis
because among some of the Mexicans
now living abroad, there are those who
wWild return to Mexico to conduct ag
itations and disturb labor conditions.
' "As for myself personally. 1 do not
care,"tGeneral Carranza declared, "but
I do care of course for the govern
ment and the country. The work of
bringing about the reconstruction of
Mexico is most difficult and must be
carried forward under peaceful condi
tions. Let these. Mexicans who are
disturbers stay where they are until
such time' as the country has a con
stitution and a government. .Then they
can return and work."
