rrwi
499
QWttK
VOL. XXXIV.
KINGMAN, ARIZONA, SATURDAY, JlrLY 13, 1915.
NO. 39.
Jttae
T01 REED ORDERED BY STATE
COIISSION TO SUPPLY ITER
From Oatman Section Dally Miner.l
The Tom Reed Gold Mines company
hereafter will supply water to its for
mer patrons in Oatman. It has been
advised by the Arizona corporation
commission that it was its legal duty
to do so. This is regardless of the
fact that it must have additional water
for its" extra ten stamps at
and the company will hav?
water from some new source to till
both of these pressing demands.
A citizen who does not care to fig
ure publicly in the matter on Tuesday
sent a long telegram to the commis
sion in which he used the following
words of appeal:
"As a resident of the town of Oat
man, I wish to call your attention to a
most etxraordinary condition existing
.here. The town, with about 4000 in
habitants, is dependent upon the Tom
Reed Gold Mines "company for electric poration commission members and of
power and its water supply. The Tom ficers of the Tom Reed company, and
Reed company has been regularly col
lecting from me for electric lights, but
several times has refused me permis
sion to connect up with its water
mains, notwithstanding the fact that
there are many families and business
houses here who have water connec
tions and are paying the Tom Reed
company each month for the amount I
01 water used, as shown by their j
meters.
"For the past month I have been ob- I
taining water for my office and home '
from water peddlers, who purchase i
NEAR TOM REED AND
BIG JIM BOUNDARIES
IFrom Oatman Section Daily Miner.
A shaft is being started by the Big
Injun Mining company, which has 30
acres of ground adjoining the Tom
Reed and Big Jim and right in the
aristocracy of Oatrran. The group is
less than half a mile north of the Tom
Reed mill and not over 400 yards j
f rom the Big Jim shaft.
The Big Injun shaft is close to the
west sideline of the Tom Reed. This
selection was made by J. L. Meikle,
who is manager of the company, be
cause of the converging there of three
very promising ledges. One comes
from the southwest, another from the
west and a third strikes north and
south. The last carries a great deal
of jasper quartz that is almost ore
and is as rich a surface showing as
can be found in the central portion I
of the district. The Big Injun hasi
this ledge for a length of 400 feet.
The other two it has for a length of
about 700 feet each.
But their most interesting feature
is their intersection, which is unmis
takable and occurs a few feet within
the Big Injun boundaries, all their
apices being plainly visible there.
The collar and first set of timbering
have been put in and the shaft is be
ing sunk by means of a windlass and
bucket for the present. A hoist will
be substituted in due course.
There is a capping of wash and
heavy boulders at the shaft, which
have been penetrated to solid bed
rock. MACHINERY SHIPMENTS
Over 100 tons of new machinery
were shipped from Kingman to the
various mining camps during the past
three days. The machinery is to
equip new projects recently taken over
by mining investors.
TO START NEXT -FALL
From Oatman Section Daily Miner.l
E. R. Hibbard of Chicago and C. D.
Rookridge of Los Angeles have de
parted for Kingman, the former leav
ing from thence for his home city aft
er spending several days in camp,
having come with Carl F. Schader, of
the Arizona-Tom Reed, on his last
trip from Los Angeles.
Messrs. Hibbard and Rookridge are
the controlling factors of the Gold
Nugget and Burris groups, situated in
a fine neighborhood close to the Gold
Reed. They have been here at vari
ous times before and stated as they
were leaving that each visit tends to
increase their confidence in the great
ness of Oatman.
"We do not intend to start work on
our groups during the summer
months," said Mr. Rookridge, "but
expect to do so this fall."
their water from the Tom Reed com
pany, but a few days ago the company
placed in operation 10 more stamps,
with the result that the unfavored peo
ple in Oatman, including many busi
ness houses, restaurants, families, etc.,
are r.ciually without water today, and
several or the leading restaurants will
xve to close if water cannot be ob-
lined immediately, so I, :s an Ameri
can citizen and one of the -1000 people
living in Oatman, do implore your
commission to take immediate action
in this matter and to declare the Tom
Reed Gold Mines company a public
utility corporation and to compel the
said company to respect the rights
of the citizens of this tovn as such a
corporation should do."
A reply to this appeal; came quick
ly, stating briefly that an informal
conference had been held' by the cor-
that the commission had informed the
officials that it was the, company's
legal duty to supply watt r to the in
habitants of Oatman, which the of
ficers of the company promised to do.
The water shortage was most in
tense on Tuesday and yesterday, when
water wagons had miV than they
could do in the daytin
and had to
work far into the night
supply their
customers.
The Tom Reed has K
I to get extra
water by connection -
the Times'
pipe line.
BY SOUTHERN
From Oatman Section Daily Mintl.
The Murdock and Oatmin-Southern,
both J. Parke Channing Companies,
which have been shut dosvh for sev
eral weeks, have resumed operations
and are working full blast- This will
tend to offset a lot of the) gossip that
has been going the rounji about min-
ing operations shutting I down .over
the Oatman district, whicjh is true in
some cases where companies were not
fully financed to start wifth, but these
are companies with all thd money pos
sibly wanted. Their shutting down
was neither for lack of funds nor lack
of a showing, but for solme internal
reasons that have been straightened
out.
These and the Oatman I Syndicate,
all Channing concerns, are in the ex-
treme southern end of the district,
west and south of the Boundary Cone
peak. They have showiw
gs that are
second to no three groups
in any part
of this extensive camp.
Tuie Murdock
has produced some rich
tannings in
stringers cut in its shaflt and the
Southern has surface ore
a few feet
away that has been shipped and re
turns secured thereon. Two tons at
the Needles smelter gave la return
$121.65 a ton. Fine surface panning
have been secured in that 1 ocality, aso
on the Nellie and Black : lange, wi$h
not a little picture ore. "V
The Murdock shaft is Jown about
125 feet and the Southern more than
100.
IS
From Wedneiday'c DalM Miner
An abstract of the delinquent tax
roll of Mohave county, preAared by the
county treasurer, shows th-at there re
mained delinquent on Juljy 1 for the
year 1915 only the sum lot 56,805.05,
of which more than $20(10 has since
been collected.
The abstract not only shows that
the county has an efficient collector,
but that the people of th county are
unusually prosperous. Ihe total of
the roll for last year waSj $230,263.36.
No' other county in the state can show
so clean a bill of health as can Mo
have. Even the year 1914 was a re
markable year in the collection of the
taxes, there being only about $3000
delinquent. j
STARTS .FOR GJiSXT FALLS
Charles Detrick lias departed for
Great Falls, Mont, as delegate from
Snowball Miners' union to the conven
tion of the Western Federation of
Miners, to be he;ld at that city begin
ning July 17. 1$ will continue its ses
sions three weeks.
WRI8LEY COM 10 jWRGT MILL ARRIVES
SOON HAVE PLANT; FOR UNITED EASTERN;
From Oatman Section Dally Miner.
The 75-horsepower engine of the
Wrigly Exploration company has
reached Kimrn.an or is within a few
reached Kingman, or is within a ie
hours of reaching there, according to
advices received yesterdav bv Engi -
neer C. H. James, who has returned
from the coast and about to resume
activities on the property.
With the big engine and a compres -
sor at work, the company tunnel will!
BU nuU me mil aHu..c. -ui. ouu.cb iC -
ceived yesterday a wire from Secre -
tary N E. Guyot, of the company, who
is in the east. It stated that he would
be back about the first of the month
CHANCE TO STRIKE
60LDR0AD LEDGE IN
THE AMALGAMATED
From Oatman Section Daily Miner.
With the Goldroad mine and mill
plainly in sight, up the same wash, it
would seem to an observer that the
Oatman Amalgamated, on the same
ledge a mile and a half on its north
westerly trend, should have an equal
chance of turning out fortunes for its
owners. The Daily Miner represen
tative recently visited the property in
company with C. A. Jones, a director,
and what made the aspect appear the
more bright for the Amalgamated was
the massive croppings of several spurs
and segments of the same huge ledge,
all of which yield small assay values
in gold on the surface.
The Gold Road and Gold Ore, both
producers, are at the head of this big
draw and from the former's mill the
white tailings spread out clear down
abreast the Amalgamated shaft. It
requires the eye of no expert to see
that the Gold Road ledge croppings do
the same. '
The Crown City ledge and old works !
of the Tom Reed are just across the)
main wash to the west, ending at a '
tunnel by the roadside in the wash, '
and this ledge takes a turn more di-,
rectly north and passes through the I
Sun Dial group into the northern!
claims of the Amalgamated. The crop-;
ping of the old Hardy bonanza just'
brushes the outer fringe of the Amal
gamated o'n the northwest, connecting
up with the Crown City.
There are 34 claims and fractions
in the Amalgamated group and one
segregated claim, making a total of
452 acres. The ground extends north
erly and southerly on' two spurs or
angles close to a mile and three-quarters
each, and on one of them it car
ries the great Gold Road lode through
out. Its larger group of 432 acres is the
largest sir-trie group in the Oat"r.an
district and larger than the c-jm'iined
holdings of any one cupanv with the
one exception of the Tom Reed.
In accordance vnra the advice of
Long & McTver. and severa' others,
the prcser location for a shaft was
selected. It iz bciwee" two croDpings
that are only a few rods apart and on
the first hil! in the southern portion
of the vast grou:. But over to the
north is a-iother hill that is virtually
all ledge croppings and it was there
that E. A. Ritter, the geologist, said
Jhe would advise sinking a shaft for
- - 1 i . r Al. T n.
tne main ore douj- 01 me group, cum
show intense mineralization, and if all
surface assays and'eroppings indicate
ore, there maj-Sa. shoots at both
places.
Over this immense acreage or crop
pings numerous samplings have been
made, and Mr. Jones states that they
have run 20, 40 and 80 cents, and as
high as $2 a ton. All of the andesite
runs a little and that in the dump
from sinking a vertical shaft goes a
dollar or two. One assay in the shaft
went $4.12.
The shaft is in a material that dif
fers greatly from most of the Oatman
country rock, that is, in its apparent
alterations. At the present depth of
285 feet it is flecked with quartz par
ticles and cubes. In addition there is
much iron and some green, resembling
chloritic andesite, ami some very
clear-cut, blood-red spots that might
be mistaken for oxide of copper.
Mr. Jones has held the nucleus of
this group for over nine years, and
lias stakftdhis fortune for good or
bad on its o&kome. He succeeded in
interesting Long and Mclver in the
company, they being among the direc
tors, and together with ueorge Bab
bitt of Flagstafff as president, the
company has a set of officers and 'di
rectors including Charles Prochnow,
J. T. Burns, J. B.,Wilmeth. Del Sher-
er, William D. Robin and D. A. Byrne.
CAPTAIN W.blPLER DEAD
Capt. T. W. Wampler, manager of
the Arizona-Whit4 Chief mining prop
erty, near Oldtralls, died a few days
ago in Los Angelas. He was about 60
years of age.
S
Ill ILL UUL IIU U I mill U
Five astonishingly rich surface as-
sa"s were secured yesterday from the
IFrom O.tm.n Section Dallr Miner.? .Oatman-Reyenue property at Union
mi ; Pass, as follows: Mam ledge which
...... . . . ' 1- is 40 to 50 feet wide, $16.12 for the
1 13 an "nt part offuU dth. otherg $12o3 ?5.7!)f 56.20
1 the United Eastern reduction plant, and 53.34.
have arrived by team from Kingman Henry Johnson, engineer in charge,
; and unloaded on the company's is an od timer at the game, and is
1 ground. " l not one to fool himself by taking sam-
The Eastern mill will be without
1 stamDS or Dlates. the Marcv outfit tak
, ; the lace of the former and
nide of the ,atter. Mar milf is
built a, the lines of a ti;be mi
lonly it takes rock directly from the
! crusher. The chunks that it handles;
are as large as two or three inches in j
1 diameter. Instead of pebbles it uses
1 chrome steel balls. The cylinders are!
I about six feet in diameter and one of :
them weighs 14 tons. 1
1 Tube mills are the next step in re-1
I duction. Those of the Eastern will i
1 use chrome steel balls similar to those i
of the Marcy mills in the place of Nor-!
wegian pebbles.
The material, after leaving the tube
mills, passes into the cyanide process,
In this there is a degree of simplify-
ing from former processes. Don- ma -
chinery being used and the Merrill fil -
ter precipitating presses being the
iinat ieatures.
It will be the latter part of the year
before the plant is working on ore.
Machinery is coming in well now, as is
lumber for the mill and shaft. The
mill will have a daily capacity of 200
tons of ore. Shaft No. 1 is not beincr
SUnk deener at present, the develop-
j ment work and the blocking out of ore
j comprising the activities in that shaft,
I which is down 665 feet.
Shaft No. 2. at the top of the hill,
back of the company office, will be the
working shaft. It is near the mill and
the ore must come up there. The tail
ings will flow down over the present j
baseball park. The frame work for
the big gallows frame is going up. It
will stand 75 feet high.
LEDGE OR STRIiER
PANNING FREE GOLD
From Oatman Section Daily Miner.
Whether it is a ledge or a stringer
is as yet undetermined, but ore that
pans free gold has been struck at the
bottom of the shaft of the Oatman-
Combination, now down within a few still, one assay being recorded as hav-1 Kinman is one of the est freight
feet of 500. ling gone $3,. These are the objec-, stations on Hne of the Santa Fe
It is the richest material yet found ives of the two drifts and Manager' between Albuquerque and San Ber
in this property. A blind ledge at the j Moore is using his best en-1 nardino, and is entitled to better f acil-
100 in the shaft assayed $2.80 a ton,
and good indications were found on
the surface of the ledge that crops
under the engine house.
The Daily Miner representative yes
terday visited the shaft and found on
the dump some exceedingly fine look
ing pieces of quartz, of which in ap-
pearance there is no superior in the
district. I wall of the dyke crops under a foot from the Combination, Big Jim, Tom
There is a tremendous cropping in trail and shows quartz and spar plen-. Reed and others on the southeast,
a saddle across a gulch to the north tifully, though a pick was never struck , passing by Tent City and above the Ol-if-
aft" 7hil SeCmt ?aVC -f 'there nor a Pannng nor assay made. 1 lie Oatman spring whicn Is in a can-
' fSL tSL,,iiThe other on the foot has been opened"' yon below that residential district of
comes up to the engine house crop-1 . , , , , , . , , ' . ... . . .
ping either that or to be wider than I m three or four Places and has yield-, Oatman, on to the north and west be
the surface indicates. I ed values from to $50 a ton. low the Western and Arizona-Central
The management wishes to make no ' To these Mr. Moore attaches great ' shafts, takes several turns and benda
announcement of the present showing j importance. He thinks they will bej and passes into the North Star ground
until more of its importance is known, found at depth to be a replica of the , in due5 course. Its presence, according
It was thought some time ago that , Goldroad, where two veins are simi- j to Mr. Moore, is only important a3 a
the main ledge that crops would be larl. placed to fortify a rhyolite dyke ! connecting link, for he thinks it car
cut m the shaft before the 500 would and where ndine crosscuts mUst bejries no values there anv more than
St'S-RaS'f constantly or miss numerous other veins and ft as much as the
honey has come to the conclusion that bodies of rl ore that are liable to be j main ledge and two rhyolite dyke ore
he may have to crosscut for it. . turned up anywhere in the dyke itself bodies that he is after. But the Ollie
If, however, this proves to be the between the two fences of quartz, ; Oatman goes on out tnrougli the Ivan
ledge, the present values as shown by which virtually make dyke and all into j hoe and Times, forking into two spurs
pannings would indicate" that the ore one ponderous ore body. .there, one of which pierces the acres
shoot as well as the ledge have been The material found in the North of the Big Lode from end . to end.
dropped onto directly. star shaft and iaterai workings dif-! There it is considered or much impor-
fers from that of any other mine in tance, especially that cross ledges are
FALL IN SHAFT the camp. Nearly every pound of rock freauentlv and all of them nan free
Tnree men working on a scaffold in
the Arizona-Tom Reed shaft a few
.Int.- n ftl 1??lnnnA 1 Q foaf f rt '
ai i.TJ. "P 2 a ,r,.
all in a heap. They were Frank
liott, Pete Anderson and J. B. Clark.
Anderson sustained bruises to his feet,
a contusion on his leg and a bruised
shoulder. Elliott and Clark had their
feet bruised. Dr. Bowes attended Ej-
liott and Anderson, but Clarks in
juries did not require medical atten
tion. ARIZONA STORES COMING.
The Arizona Stores have taken over
the lot owned by Sam Bentley, south,
of the railroad station. The dimen-1
sions of the property are 50 by 75 feet ;
It is believed that this company has j
its eyes on Chloride and will soon be j
found established here. "
rv
VERY RICH SURFACE
llrata Section Daily JUner.J
flef er than, the a.Yf?p-
lected the samples with the greatest
. care, and as a "suit there is a feeling
, of exuberance at the office of A. J.
: Beecher & Co., where the Revenue
company had itsinception.
iinnTM OTIin nniPTn
I 1 1 H I H Si A K 1 1 H I M S
I?UII I II ill nil UI1IIIU
TO
THREE ORE BODIES
j ,
j jhKe objective points of unusual
. , . ...
'Prom,se are be,nS sought m as man'
1 openings on the 400-feet level of the
Qatman-North Star, two by drifts and
the thirl by a crosscut. The drifts are
out over 20 feet each and the cross
cut slightly more than 50 feet.
The drifts are on the main ledge,
1 close to a fault Diane which is discern-
ible on the furface. xheir locat;on was
1
I selected in a manner to avoid running
i away from the ledge on its dip in an
incline shaft. At that point the ledge
is narrow, averaging probably eight'
feet, but on either side and within a,
couple of hundred feet it is of enor-,
mous width. Likewise, the surface'
values are greater and by a less
amount of drifting either way it is
I hoped to get these in proportionately
1 increased jjgi orgt level. The
lug lxKivtM was opener
of 30 feet and gives an average across
the botton of an incline shaft of $3.50
,a ton. The ledge is 70 feet wide on
.
' "
The southeastern trend of the ledge,
j interrupted, as it is, is thrown to the
! north for 75 or 100 feet, with a con-
tinuous winding narrow vein between,
It widens again, not to the 70-foot !
width of the other lens, but about half'
that width and the values are better I
aeavors to reacn ootn in recora time.
The third is a parallel rhyolite dyke
to the southwest It is identical with
the famed rhyolite dyke of the United j in their failure to classify this rock.
Western In less than 150 feet the j But there is not a great deal of it ano
crosscut willtap the dyke. In so do-' it may be just a small overflow, for
ing it will expose two ledges, both of within 150 feet there is freckled an
which on the surface were never very I desite.
badly lost. The first on the hanging.
i taken out now carries black manga-,
nese. Some resembles slightly that of
! the United Eastern and Pioneer, with
El-l3 and cavities. In others the manneers have reported exhaustively on
! ganese is of solid form and lusterless ' three distinct ore zones in the NortlL
i but lots of it. The vein matter car-J Star and that there are regular mazes
' ries this and quartz and spar, of cross veins connecting each other
( making it a streamed and spotted . up like a salmon net and values have
, black and white. j been found on thenlj jIr Moore d4.
I The formation surrounding the ledge ! termined to conf fne his labors and ex
ito the present depth is even niorepf jpenditures to this pne spot, where he
-R liivstprv. It is not andosit rrivn- pmwtc f a nnen tlirp hcr nrp Hrwlioa
I lite nor any of the known "rocks.
around here, but a fine grained dark
green and almost black, with no vari-!
ations. On the surface little patches j
of it slightly Fesemble shale and it1
contains some lime, but not enoagk to 1
give it that name. Geologists of 0t-
jm2hand those visiting here have been
RIAL PAYMEIUL
IS
BAY STATE
From Chloride Section Daily Miner.
The final payment of several thou
sand dollars has been made on the Bay
State property, according to O. C. Will
iams. The' money was paid to John
B. Hughes, who promoted the deaL
Development is at present being di
rected to the Copper Hill, which the
latter is rapidly leaving the prospect
stage. The last assay taken from thi3
property, according to Mr. Williams,
ran 19 per cent in copper and $42.70
in gold and silver.
The management states that work
on the Bay State, which has lately
been suspended pending the arrival o
the hoist, will soon,again be under
taken. The equipment is expected any
day. As soon as the machinery is in
stalled work of opening the ore body
recently discovered will be resumed.
Secretary J. Edmund Snow visited
the property last Sunday and Monday
and said he was well satisfied with
1 conditions.
TO
BE IDE HER
E BY
FE
From Friday' Daily Miner
J. A. Christie of Needles, division
superintendent of the Santa Fe. ac
companied by J. W. Woqd. supern-
fldent of bridge and buildings. wer-
iirman vp ntav loo'- rc
the Kingman yards and prepanag
, estimates of the work to be done to
be"er M in the 'arfc
I and to beautify a few spots where suf-
I ficient ground can Be had for the pur-
1 pose.
The Fourth street crossing is to be
improved, the little park fenced with a
decorative fence and the yards and
right-of-way oiled. It is prdbable that
many other improvements will be
made, including the erection ofa new
mes.
i "
I unanimous in one thing, and that i3
The Ollie Oatman dyke comes out
gold. The intersecting points are
i counted great assets.
Notwithstanding the fact that engi-
One of those interlacing diagonal
veins is considered espeeciallv impor-
tant, for it takes across from the old
shaft and series of cuts where it ha3
been opened, sampled and found to
carry gold, to the shaft of the Gold
Reed property, which soon is to be one
' of the active centers of the district.
MADE 0
STATE
UER.RY
