I ! m ,
E iSoSbl'0' "' C J- VV ( V VV'V r ;;
v24.00, 26.00 and $29.00. tj kJ Sunday Generally Fair; Not Much H
L . im' x Change in Temperature. H
. ! l FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' . 5r - ' ' H
! ''Xth Year-N- - Pdce P.VC Cent,. ' bcDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 15, 1916. Entered aa Second C.a8B Matter at the Pfncfc"STr. H
I ' 1 ! 5 ., i
I m. BLJLiCv- 1 dm 1 i il A dm I V 1 I I B OT Wi 1 Si M m -r 1 I BlIIill 191 M
GREAT BATTLE ON BRITISH FRONT
Germans Forced Back to Third Line of Defenses Two Thou
sand Prisoners Taken Ten Thousand Since Beginning
; of Battle, With Large Quantities of War Munitions
I Violent Artillery Duel Between French and
Germans Continues on the Fleury Sector
Other German Attacks Repulsed
by Curtain of Fire.
GERMANS REGAIN POSITIONS I YOLHYMAJ
. i,
- i
Petrograd, July 15, via London, 6.05 p. m. The Ger-
'; mans made a determined effort j'esterday to force back the
Russians in the region of Baranovichi where heavy fighting
has been in progress for some time. Three times the Germans
launched attacks in massed formation. The war office, an
nounced today that these attacks had been broken down and
that the Russians initiating a counter-attack, made further pro
gress. The announcement says: "On Thursday evening the
Germans, under cover of a violent fire, approached our barbed
i wire entanglements in the region of the village of Lioubanichi.
:' They were repulsed by our artillery fire.
! "Yesterday the Germans opened a violent artillery fire
against our lines eastward of Gorodichtche (Baranovichi sec
tor) after which they assumed the offensive in the region of
Skrobowa, but were repulsed with heavy losses. A little later,
after a continuation of the bombardment the enemy took the
offensive in massed formation a little further north of Skro
, bowa,, but were again repulsed by our fire. After having
taken breath the Germans made a fresh attack in the region of
the same village, but our troops repulsed the enemy with ma
chine gun and rifle fire. We then made a counter-attack which
resulted in the capture of more ground, which we are now
consolidating."
Rome, July 1 5, via London, 7:15 p. m. Against strong
J Austrian -resistance, the Italians have carried strong positions
at the head of the Bosina valley, according to the official state
ment given out today. Italian successes in the Tofana region
continue.
British guns and. Infantry continue
to deepen the big dent in the Ger
' man lines north of the Somme. Gen
eral Haig's forces continued the at
tack today and at one point the Ger
mans have been pushed back to their
third line. London reports the taking
of 2,000 prisoners within the last 24
l hours.
$ The French are busy at Verdun,
)i where they have repulsed an attack
I north of the Avocourt redoubt.
fj At Apremont attempted German
A attacks were broken up by the
French 'barrage fire.
Hard fighting continues between
Russians and Turks in the Turkish
Armenia, where the Russians are
pushing westward t from Mamakha
tun. London, July 15, 2 -IS p. m. The
British offensive was resumed today.
The war office announced that at one
point the Germans were forced back
to their third line positions. More
than 2,000 prisoners were taken.
The statement from the front,
timed 12:50 p. m., follows:
"All continues to go well on the
British front and at one point wo
forced the enemy back to his third
system of defense, more than four
miles to the rear of his original front
trenches at Frlcourt and Mametz.
"In the last 24 hours we have cap
tured over 2,000 prisoners. Including
a regimental commander of the Third
Guards Division and the total num-
ber of prisoners taken by the British
; since the battle began now exceeds
; 10,000. Large quantities of war ma-
: i. terlal also have fallen' into our
hands."
; ' Paris, July 15, 12:30 p. m. A vio
lent artillery duel continues in the
Fleury sector, the war office an
nounced today. A German attack on
If a trench northeast of the Avocourt
redoubt was repulsed, the official
1 statement asserts, and German at
tempts to undertake attacks in the
Apremont forest were checked by a
curtain fire.
Turk War Report.
Constantinople, July 15, via London
7:10 a. m. An official statement issu
ed by the Turkish war office today
leads-
"On the Irak and Persian fronts
there Is nothing to report.
"In the Caucasus advanced positions
of our right wing drove back and pur
sued to their main positions strong
hostile reconnoitering patrols. In some
sectors of the center there was fight
ing of decreasing violence without re
sulting In success for either side. Ac
tions continue with alternating suc
cess. Our artillery fire prevented hostile
warships ifrom approaching the Dar
danelles coast andntho waters of Smyr
na harbor.
"An enemy biplane was compelled
to descend near Tenedos.
"Tuesday night a hostile cavalry di
vision was defeated near Katla,"
Great Fight Continues.
Berlin, July 15, via London, 12:25
a. m. The continuation of the British
attack on the German lines between
Pozleres and Longueval resulted in the
penetrating of the German lines and
effecting a gain of territory, the war
office announced today. The British
also have occupied Trones wood. The
fighting Is continuing, although the
attack has been stemmed, adds the
statement, which says:
"British attacks which followed the
first sanguinary repulse suffered by
them north of the Sommo led to hca y
fighting. By his forces massed be
tween Posleres and Longueval the
enemy, In spite of the most severe
losses, succeeded in penetrating our
lines and gaining some ground. He
also occupied Trones wood.
"The attack has been stemmed but
the fighting Is being continued."
'South of the Somme there was no
infantry activity.
1 "Aside from futile actions under-
f Some workers are spreading the false report that I am not
a candidate for District Attorney at the Primaries on Monday,
July 17, 1916.
I hereby declare myself to be a candidate for District At-
fij torney for this District and ask my friends and supporters to
f turn out to the Primaries and support my delegates.
A. a. HORN.
ft r , ' - "
i
taken by small British detachments
east of Armentiers in the region of
Angres In the Neuvillo sector and
northeast of Arras, nothing of import
ance occurred on the rest of the
front."
Austrians Repulse Italians.
Berlin, July 15, by Wireless to Say
ville. The reoulse of heavy attacks
by Italians on the Austrian front in
tho Trentino between the Erenta and
the Adige is announced In tho Vienna
headquarters' report of July 14. Tho
statement says:
"Intense activity continues between
the Brenta and the Adige. The ene
my ten times attacked northeast of
Monte Rasta being in each case re
pulsed by our troops who maintained
all their positions."
Germans Recapture Positions.
; Berlin, July 15 Via London, 5 p.
j m. Parts of positions in the Skro
bowa region, north of the Volhyniau
I sector, which were taken from the
Germans by the Russians on July 3,
have been recaptured by German
troops under Prince Leopold, the
war office announced today. More
than 1,500 prisoners were taken.
The army headquarters' statement
on operations along the eastern front,
says:
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Hindenburg: Russian detachments
which attempted to cross the Dvina
near Lennewaden, northwest of
Friedrichstadt, were repulsed.
"Numerous bombs were dropped on
railway stations on tho Smorgon
Molodechuo line.
"Army group of Prince Leopold:
In the region of Skrobowa, parts of
positions on the first line of defense
which had been held by the enemy
since his first attack on the morning
of July 3, were recaptured as the re
sult of our attacks. Eleven officers
and more than 1,500 men were taken
prisoner.
"Army group of General von Lin
singen: The situation is unchanged.
Our aero squadrons achieved suc
cess in their attack on the troop
transport traffic station at Kievrzay,
northwest of Lutsk.
"Balkan theater: An enemy de
tachment which attacked a Bulgarian
outpost southwest of Gievgell was
repulsed. By the shelling" of Gule
menll, northeast of Lake Dolran
seven Greek civilians, among whom
were four children, were killed."
no
Judge Donnelly's Instructions
to Jury Considered Tanta
mount to Command
to Acquit.
DAMAGING TESTIMONY
States7 Attorney Dwells on
Fact That Death Was No
Surprise, But Ex
pected Event.
Waukegan, 111., July 15 The case
of Will H. Orpet, Unlvereity of Wis
consin student charged with the mur
der of Marlon Lambert, was given to
the jury this afternoon. Counsel for
tho defendant said that Judge Don
nelly's Instructions to the Jury wore
tantamount to a command to the jury
to acquit.
Mr. Joslyn stated that there could
be no doubt that the white spots on
Marlon's coat were made from liquid.
He asserted that the only real attack
on this theory was made by the de
fense outside the use of experts, was
to intimate that the spots were placed
there by some one Interested in the
prosecution.
"And you don't bellcA'c that" insist
ed Iho lawyer.
Speaking of Ornet's testimony that
he merely looked at the body and
if led, Mr. Joslyn said:
"If he was suddenly surprised to
find her unconscious there .wouldn't
he have bathed her head in snow,
wouldn't ho have opened her dress,
wouldn't he have searched exhaus
tively for signs "of life? Even tho de
fendant would have done that but ho
didn't because she was dead and he
alone knew that."
At the close of Mr. Joslyn's argu
ment Judge Donnelly delivered his
Instructions to the jury.
The case went to tho jury without
suggestion from tho state as to pen
alty, which may range from 14 years
imprisonment to hanging.
Charge to Jury.
Counsel for the defense considered
Judge Donnelly's instructions favor
able to the defendant Excerpts fol
low: "Tho Jury should not go boyond the
evidence to hunt up doubts, nor must
they entertain such doubts as chimer
ical or conjectural.
"The court instructs tho Jury that
although tho jury should be satisfied
from the evidence beyond a reason
able doubt that the deceased, Marlon
Lamber, died from cyanide of potas
sium poisoning, stiLl if the jury further
finds from tho evidence that she had
the same opportunity for Inking the
poison herself without the aid of the
f .
I NOTED MEN MAY BE ARMY AIDS TO T. R., I
1 WHO PLANS TO RECRUIT WAR DIVISION
Henry L. Stimson (left) and Admiral Cameron Winslow.
Col. Theodore Roosevelt has made formal application to the war de
partment for permission to recruit a division 20,000 strong if war comes.
He would have four nationally known brigade commanders, one of whom
would be Admiral Cameron McRae Winslow, who will retire from the com
mand of the Pacific fleet at the end of this month. The colonel's chief
quartermaster would be Henry L. Stimson, ex-secretary of war.
defendant that the defendant had to
give it to her and It is possible from
any reasonable 'manner to explain ali
tho facts and circumstances proved
on the trial consistently with the hy
pothesis, that she did take the poison
herself for the purpose of killing her
self, then this is sufficient to raise a
reasonable doubt and the jury should
render a verdict of not guilty.
Proof Must Be Clear.
"Nothing short of proof so clear and
convincing as to exclude every reas
onable hypothesis of his innocence
will justify a conviction, and without
such proof the jury must find the de
fendant not guilty.
"To warrant a conviction the de
fendant must be proven guilty so
clearly that there is no reasonable
theory that he can bo Innocent.
"Unless you find beyond all reason
able doubt In considering the evidence
that the defendant had cyanide of po
tassium in his possession just prior
to the death of Marlon Lambert, then
vou should find the defendant not
guilty.
"Flight, though a circumstance to be
weighed against the defendant, Is not
of a conclusive character and it may
not be evidence of guilt if it appears
that there was any other motive for
flight, other thnn a sense of guilt.
"If there are two theories, one for
guilt and one for innocence then adopt
the Innocent theory and acquit.
'Presumption of Innocence is not a
mere form to bo disregarded by the
jury at pleasure, but It is an essential
substantial part of tho law of tho
land
"The jury has no light to assume
tho guilt of the defendant and then
try to reconcile tho testimony with
such theory "
History of Case.
The case of Marlon Lambert and
William II. Orpet in tho course of its
development became ono of the most
perplexing In the annals of criminal
history. Motive paralleled motive, ac
tion paralleled action, opportunity
paralleled opportunity until the marks
of murder and of suicide became sub
stantially as one.
In the end the guilt or Innocence
of the defendant, so far as the adduc
tion of actual fact was concerned,
went to the jury on the mystifying
niceties of chemical analysis and Or
pet's own compromising conduct. The
mystery attracted unusual Interest in
all parts of tho United States and
Canada.
Two Months Trial.
Trial of the case, including selec
tion of a jury, occupied the better
lu evidence forty-four letters written
by Orpet to Marlon over a period of
a year; bottles and boxes containing
samples of cyanide from the McCor
mlck estate, from the Deorfleld high
school laboratory, from Kraft's drug
store at Lake Forest, and white pow
der scraped from Marlon's hand, and
from spots on her cloak; the girl's
garments; a magazine nrticlo dealing
with the use of cyanide as a furalgator
In greenhouses; the che.mistrv text
'books used respectively by the high
school girl and the college student,
a copy of the Wisconsin statute deal
ing with tho sale of .poisons, and a
bottle of molasses and water.
Five chemists, all or whom were
specialists In toxicology, ono alienist,
two surveyors, druggists, street car
men, and undertaker, school teachers,
police officers, reporters and frlonds
of tho Orpets and Lamberts were
among tho lonjr nrrav of witnesses
who testified.
0vTe'T,hoUBand Veniremen Examined.
Ralph W. Dady, state's attorney of
Lake county; David R j0Slyn, state's
attorney of McHenr?" county, and Eu
gene M. Jtuuyard appeared as counsel
for the prosecution, and James H.
Wilkerson, former United States dis
trict attorney at Chicago, Ralph F.
Pottor-r hiR'lawpaTtner.-and Leslie P.
Ilanna, of Waukegan, for the defense.
More than a thousand veniremen were
examined before a jury, said by coun
sel upon its selection to be above the
average In intelligence and character,
was chosen. Judge Charles H. Don
nelly presided.
The series of parallels started at
Lake Forest, one of a series of aristo
cratic suburbs dotting the heavily
wooded bluffs along the west shore
of Lake Michigan from Chicago to
Waukegan, for Frank Lambert, father
of Marion, was superintendent of the
Kuppeuheiraer estate, and Edward O.
Orpet, father of the defendant, super
intendent of the estate of Cyrus Mc
Cormick, both at Lake Forest.
Orpet Madly In Love.
LaBt summer, young Orpet, then a
pallid, slender youth of nineteen, of
sharply regular features, somewhat
vain of his college opportunities and
undisciplined as to character, returned
from the" University of Wisconsin at
Madison for a vacation at home. He
fell madly In love with Marlon, ac
cording to his letters. She had com
pleted her junior year at the Deer
field High school and was then seven
teen and known for her gaiety and
laughter "the life of the party," as
one witness put It.
When Orpet returned to college In
the fall of 1015, frequent letters were
exchanged. Orpet destroyed her's;
she saved his and they remained after
her death to speak of great fear of
exposure, that came upon her. Orpet,
In testifying, said that ho was certain
that these fears were groundless. Once
he mailed her a bottle of molasses
and water "to ease her mind," and
ho brought a similar compound with
him for tho same purpose when he
entered Helm's woods, near Lake
Forest, with her on tho morning of
Wednesday. February 0, last.
Conflicting Statements.
Orpet testified that he made the
trip to allay her fears and to explain
a story which had reached Marlon
that ho was engaged to one Colcstla
Youker, but the elaborate efforts
which he made to keep the trip sec
ret, and his subsequent conflicting
statements of It to officers of tho law
developed Into the most damaging
evidence against him. It led to the
menacing question of Mr. Joslyn, re
Iterated again and again "Wliy?
Why? Why? Why did you oomo? You
brOUirht. nn rpliof' vnu hrniit Tin
medicine; you brought no tenderness
no words of love! Why did you
come?"
On February S, Orpet at Madison
left three letters, post-dated February
9, with his friend, Otto Peterson, to
be mailed on the latter date. One was
to his mother, ono to Marlon, and the
third to Marlon's friend, Josephine
Davis. Thev were worded to make it
appear that the writer was in Madi
son on February 9, the day he kept
hla tryst In the woods with Marion,
and she came to her death.
Orpet'a Explanation of Alibi Letters.
Orpet explained on the stand that
the alibi letters, as they came to be
known, were written so that if by ac
cident he were seen at Lake Forest
and word of the fact reached Marlon's
Parents, who objected to him, or his
own parents, who expected him to re
main faithful to college duties at
Madison, they would accept the letters
as conclusive evidence to the con
trar3 The letter to Josephine wasto
(Continued on Page 12). I
Long Standing Row Ovetf Rail
road Payments to Be Settled
By Commission.
PUBLISHERS TO APPEAL
More Than Million Dollars
Disputed Back Pay to Go to
Rural Maif Carriers.
Washington, July 15. Details of
the agreement on disputed points be
tween house and senate in the postal
bill which, became available today,
show that the pneumatic tube con
tracts in large cities which the pos
office department wished to discon
tinue, are to bo extended to March -1,
1917, pending negotiations. The long
standing row over payments to rail
roads for carrying mails and the man
ner of payment will be referred to the
Interstate Commerce Commission to
determine whether the roads shall be
paid on a space or weight basis and
at what rate.
Publishers will have the right of
appeal to federal courts from orders
sending publications by freight but
the orders will remain in effect in the
meantime.
More than a million dollars disput
ed back pay will go to rural carriers.
ifiiajLIal sfiauaOilili
Destroyer of Indomnito Type
Sent to Bottom by Austro-
Hungarian Submersible.
Berlin, July 15. via Wireless to Say
ville. The sinking of an Italian de
stroyer by an Austro-Hungariau sub
marine was announced in an official
statement received here today from
Vienna.
The announcement follows:
"An Austro-Hungarian submarine
on the afternoon of July 10 sank an
Italian destroyer of the Indomnito
type.
"Ono of our aero squadrons bom
barded effectively military establish
ments and railroad stations at Paua.
The aeroplanes returned unharmed."
The Indomnito, laid down In 1912,
was 239 -feet long, displaced 6S0 tons
and was armed with one 4 7-Inch gun,
four 12-inch pounders and two tor
pedo tubes.
oo
REVOLT AGAINST
Forts Near Mecca Surrender
Arabians Capture Nearly
3,000 Men.
London, July 15, 4:02 a. m. The
revolt against Turkish rule in Arabia
is making progress, having resulted
in tho complete wiping out of all trac
es of Turkish resistance at Mecca, ac
cording to a Reuter dispatch from
Cairo today.
After the fall of Mecca on June 13,
says the dispatch, certain elements of
the garrison continued their resistance
in forts near the city. In order to
avoid bloodshed, the grand sherif in
command of tho Arabian forces, sus
pended attacks. Tho forts have now
surrendered, according to today's ad
vices, tho captures of the Arabians in
cluded 2S officers, 950 unwounded men
and 150 wounded, four guns and large
quantities of material and munitions.
Since tho proclamation of Arabian
independence the total captures from
tho Turks Include ten 'field guns, ten
mountain guns, fifteen machine guns,
100 officers, 2,500 soldiers and 150
civil functionaries.
nn
FREIGHT RATES UNFAIR.
Washington, July 15. The Inter
state commerce commission held to
day that freight rates to many Ne
braska cities havo given Omaha un
fair advantages over Council Bluffs,
Sioux City, St Joseph, Kansas City
and Atchison, Kansas, and ordered a
readjustment of rates to put those
cities on a competitive basis effec
tive September 25.
oo
Clearing House Banka.
New York. July 15. The actual
statement of clearing house banks'and
trust companies for the week shows
that they hold $95,109,470 reserve in
excess of legal requirements. This is
an Increase of $41,563,410 over last
week. v
' " ' 1
MKlliil iiLuLiJl I
m luJMAKiNtu
Storm Battered Tug Welling- H
ton Works Six Hours to IH
Save Men on Naval M
Collier Hector. M
SHIP LEFT TO FATE I
Fires Break Out in Hold and H
Engines Disabled When IH
Wireless Calls Are
Sent Out M
Charleston, S. C, July 15. Tales ov l
the unsuccessful fight of the naval H
collier Hector against a gale which
blew 120 miles an hour, great seas,
fires and disabled engines and the
daring rescue of 102 men by the tug I l
Wellington were brought here today j j
by the first survivors to land. H
The Wellington, storm battered and H
having lost her two barges, worked H
for six hours taking off the crew and. H
sixty marines which the Hector was VM
taking from Port Royal to Guautana- . H
Captain Joseph Newell of the Hec H
tor and about 20 men were taken H
off later by the steamer Cypress and H
the broken Hector was left to her IH
fate seven miles northeast of Cape IH
Rumaine. No member of the ship's H
company was lost but four wero H
hurt. H
Hectors Engines Disabled. H
The Hector ran into the worst of H
the hurricane Thursday morning:. i jH
Huge waves broke over the vessel 5 H
and poured down tho hatches, disabl- ' iH
Ing the engines. When she was uu- ' H
able to make way wireless calls for ' H
help were sent out." Fires broke out H
in the hold. H
The Wellington reached the collier H
at 1 o'clock Friday afternoon about . H
one hour after the Hector had ground- jH
ed. The work of transferring tho tM
men continued for six hours. Cap- H
tain Newell with about a score of , H
men elected to remain on the Hector. - jH
The Wellington started for this port ' sM
and fthe Cypress set out to take off IH
Captain Newell and his men as it IH
seemed certain there was no change H
to save the collier. At 8 o'clock last ' H
night Captain Newell and his men H
were forced to leave the Hector. H
MANY NEW CASES I
New York Has 144 More Chil- H
dren Afflicted With Infantile
Paralysis and 27 Deaths M
in 24 Hours. M
New York, July 15. A marked drop H
In temperature failed today materially H
to reduce the fatalities and develop- H
ment of the epidemic of Infantile par- H
alysis. During the 24 hours ending H
at ten o'clock this morning there were H
27 deaths and 144 new cases of the IH
disease reported in tho five boroughs IH
of New York. H
To control the epidemic the Rocke- M
feller Foundation today donated the H
sum of $50,000 to those in charge of H
tho fight against the disease. Mayor H
Mitchell has been named a member of jH
the committee through which the fund H
will be disbursed. M
oo m
GENERAL HERRERA
SAFE AT PARRAL
El Paso, Texas, July 15. General M
Luis Herrera who left Parral some M
time ago for Mexico City has return- M
ed and is now in command of his M
troops, according to a telegram from H
General Alvaro Obregon received in jH
Juarez today by General Francisco H
Gonzales. H
The telegram was in roply to a let- m
tor from General Gonzales stating that H
it had been variously reported in the M
United States that Herrera had been m
killed by Villistas south of Chihuahua H
City and that he had been ordered H
shot by General- Obregon. M
-oo- i H
ilA! 111 lUMEOii
Washinglonf July 15. Senate: Con- 'lH
tniued discussion of naval appropria- H
tion bill. M
Postoffico appropriation conferees ,H
meet to complete agreement on dls- JH
puted section of measure. !H
President sent nomination of Re- H
presentfttlve James Hay of Virginia 'H
to bo Judge of the court of claims. jH
House: Debated Rucker corrupt 'H
practices bill. ,H
