Germans Forced Back to Their Third
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— Xo. 162
HAIG DEEPENS DENT
PUSHING GERMANS
BACK TO THIRD LINE
Continue Attack by Pushing Forces of Kaiser to Last Line of !
Defense; Mark Advance of Four Miles Since Start of
Grand Drive; Fighting Still Continuing
TAKE 2,000 MORE PRISONERS
INCREASING TOTAL TO 10,000
French Repulse Teutonic Attacks on Extreme Left of Ver
dun Front; Artillery Actively Replying to Crown
Prince Fire; Russians Progressing against Turks
British guns and British infantry continue to deepen the big
dent in the German lines north of the Somme.
After forcing the second line along a four-mile front General
Sir Douglas Haig's forces continued the attack to-day. As a result
the Germans at one point have been pushed back to their third line of
defense. This marks a British advance of four miles from the
original German lines as they existed at the beginning of the
offensive on July 1 in the Fricourt-Mametz sector.
Have Taken 10,000 Prisoners
The force of the renewed British drive is shown not only in the
ground gained, but in the number of prisoners captured. London
reports the taking of more than 2,000 Germans within the past
twenty-four hours, the total since the start of the offensive now
being in excess of 10,000.
While the British are thus pushing back the Teutonic lines, the
French on their right flank are remaining comparatively inactive,
having already achieved- a similar object. They are busy at Ver
dun, however, where they have repulsed an attack near the Avocourt
redoubt, on the extreme left of the Verdun front, while their.artillery
is actively replying to bombardments by the Crown Prince's guns
on the east bank of the Meuse.
Russ and Turks Hard at It
At Aprement attempted German attacks were broken up by the
French barrage fire.
Hard fighting continues between Russians and Turks in Turkish
Armenia, where the Russians are pushing westward from Mamak
liatun. The result of the battles so far is indecisive,, Constantinople
reports.
British Successful in
Holding Gains Made Along
German Second Line
By Associated Press
British Front in France. July 14. —
At the end of a long day's unbroken
struggle the indications are that the
British are holding their gains of the
morning, when along a front of about
four miles they attacked the German
second line, capturing several impor
tant positions.
The infantry, which went into action
shortly before dawn, anticipated a
most determined resistance and ex
pected to pay high toll in casualties.
Their experiences during many night
trench raids had served as excellent
preparation for their daring moonlight
assault, where co-ordination was nec
essary for success. An unexpectedly
small number of wounded came into
th» clearing stations during the morn
ing hours. Many were borne by Ger
man prisoenrs, who acted as litter
bearers
Germans Surprised
These prisoners said that no attack
had been expected and that the assault
before daylight came as a complete
surprise. The British rushed the
shambles in the Trones wood where
the Germans had previously regained
part possession. Through the tangle
and over fallen tree trunks they swept
THE WEATHER
For HarriftburK and vicinity: Part
ly cloud) and warmer to-nitcht;
Sunday fair, continued warm.
Yor Eantcrn Pennsylvania: Partly
cloudy to-night, warmer in north
and west portions; Sunday fair;
moderate east and aoutbeant
winds.
River
The Susquehanna river and all Ita
tributaries will Tall slowly or re
main nearly stationary. A stage
of about 3.8 feet is indicated for
Harrlsburg; Sunday morning.
General Conditions
The tropical storm that was cen
tral on the South Carolina coast,
Friday morning, has moved in
land writh rapidly decreasing In
tensity, and is now central near
Ashville. North Carolina.
It Is 2 to 8 degrees cooler in East
ern New York, Eastern Pennsyl
vania and New Jersey under tlie
influence of easterly winds.
Temperaturet 8 a. m.. (W.
Sun: Rises, 4:48 a. m.; sets, 7:33
p. m.
Moon: Last quarter, July 21, <1:33
p. m.
River Stage* 3.0 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, KO.
Lowest temperature. 72.
Mean temperature, 70.
Normal temperature, 75.
Getting used to strange
newspapers Is like breaking in
a pair of new shoes—mighty
uncomfortable. Order the
Harrisburg Telegraph mailed
to your vacation address if
yon would enjoy real comfort.
Six cents a week will bring
the Telegraph to you no mat
ter where you are.
BY CARRIERS 6 CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CEXTI.
in the face of persistent sniping and
machine gun fire under conditions
where it was considered amazing when
they could discern friend from foe.
The Germans, building barricades
and digging for shelter among roots,
refused to yield, confident that coming)
counter attacks would effect a rescue.
Among them were wounded who, un-,
able to stand, still could fire their 1
rifles.
The British advance was made on
a frontal sweep up slopes into the Ger
man second li:>e and the villages of
[Continued on Page 6]
Orpet Case Goes to
Jury With Tantamount
Command to Acquit
By Associated Press
Waukeegan, Ills., July 15. The
case of Will H. Orpet, University of
Wisconsin student charged with the
murder of Marion Lambert, was given
to the jury this afternoon. Counsel
foi the defendant said that Judge
Donnelly's instructions to the jury
were tantamount to a command to
the jury to acquit.
Pay Fines of Those Sent
to Jail to Get Farm Helpers
Special to the Telegraph
Altoona, Pa., July 15. Farmers in
Blair and adjoining counties are so hard
up for hands that they are offering to ■
! ?*£ the flnes of Prisoners committed to i
jail for minor offenses to get them to
i help them harvest the crops.
Mayor Rhodes has received a number !
jof such offers. One prisoner said he 1
would sooner work than be in jail, so
i the farmer put up th« monev and ob- |
! tained hi? release. Another prisoner •
j whose term was nearly served, was lib
erated so that he might get a job on a :
. farm. Owing to the labor shortage !
womer. are obliged to work in the har
vest fields this summer, the first time
| in many years.
Emperor Francis Joseph
111, Family Is Summoned
Special to the Telegraph
Zurich, via Paris, July 15. Members
;of the Austrian Imperial family have
! been sumomned to Schoenbrunn owing
j to the illness of the Emperor Francis
Joseph, according to news dispatches
1 from Innbruck.
i Several specialists are attending the
aged King-Emperor. All the news of
! the war is being withheld from him.
Troopers in New Mexico
Honor Gen. Hutchison
Mrs. Maurice E. Finney, 14 07 North
I Front street, received a letter from her
! husband. Colonel Finney, of the Eighth
Regiment, this morning, written from
New Mexico. He says that on Tuesday
afternoon at the hour the funeral of
General Hutchison' was taking place in
Pine Street Church, this city. Chaplain
Harry Nelson Bassler held a short
service on the train, with a brief talk
to the assembled officers, "out of re
spect to our dearly beloved and re
spected late commander, General
Hutchison."
ANOTHER YATJ3 BATTERY
By Associated Press
Tobyhanna, Pa., July 15. Battery
C, of New Haven, one of the Yale bat
teries. arrived at the United States ar
tillery camp of instruction here to
day with 135 men and full equipment.
The command was under canvas in a
short time showing much efficiency in
handling equipment. The last of the
| Yale batteries is looked for to-mor-
I row or Monday and will" be accom
panied by the regimental headquarters
1 staff.
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 15, 1916.
Blue Says Child Plague Can Be Halted Shortly
flfi' wmmmmmwmmmmmmmmmmmmmmM
lua aiMow Fi/EXNrEje. supa«3£QK-&£K SVFERJ bi^US.
New York City, July 18.—It !■ the opinion of Surgeon General Rupert Blue,
the eminent authority, that the Infantile paralysis scourge which has gripped
the city and many other localities, may be checked within a couple of weeks.
Dr. Blue, in an Interview, said. "The hope is justified that precautionary meas
ures which have been taken will reduce the number of cases in a very short
time. Although Impossible to set any specific time for the achievement of
desired results in the present epidemic, it Is safe to say that two weeks should
bring about some very "encouraging results."
Dr. Simon Flexner, another noted germ expert, is also helping the city in
its paralysis.
GREAT ARCHITECT
HIGH IN PRAISE
OF HARRISBURG
Harrlsburg continues; to attract the
favorable notice of distinguished vis
itors day after day. More and more
tourists are coming here every week
and these are spreading abroad the
story* of this city's wonderful trans
formation. One of the visitors this
week was Petrce Anderson, of the firm
of Graham, Burnham & Co., the
Chicago architects. He was appointed
by President Taft as a member of the
National ' Commission of Fine Arts,
upon which Congress placed a duty of
PLACING PENNA.
TROOPS ON LINE
Realignment Being Rushed as
Bandits Near Border;
Driven by Hunger
By Associated Press
Bcquillas, Texas, July 15.—via Army
Field Telephone to Marathon, Texas.—
Realignment of troops for protection
against bandit raids in the Big Bend
country began to-day with the arrival
here on a motor truck train, of one
company of the Third battalion. Penn
sylvania National Guard, and the dis
patch of a troop of the Sixth Cavalry
to reinforce B trooop at Glenn Springs.
The rematnder of the Pennsylvania
battalion at Marathon will be trans
ported to border points as rapidly as
possible.
Troops also are being rushed from
[Continued on Page 6]
Extend Pneumatic Tube
Contracts Until March 4
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., July 15. De
tails of the agreement 011 disputed
points between House and Senate in the
Sostal bill which became available to
ay. show that the pneumatic tube
contracts in large cities which the Post
Office Department wished to discon
tinue are to be extended to March 4,
1917. pending negotiation.
The longstanding row over payments
to railroads for carrying mails and the
manner of payment will be referred to
the Interstate Commerce Commission to
determine whether the roads shall be
paid on a space or weight basis and at
what rate. Existing methods remain in
effect meanwhile, except on certain se
lected routes which the space system,
contended for by the railroads, will be
tested.
Publishers will have the right of ap
peal to Federal courts ' from orders
sending publications by freight, but
the orders will remain in effect in the
meantime. More than <1,000,000 disput
ed back pay will go to rural carriers.
Drops From Tenth Floor
of Hotel to Instant Death
By Associated Press
New York. July 18. Paul Smith,
vice-president of the Chalmers Motor
Company, was instantly killed to-day
when he either jumped or fell from the
window of his room on the tenth floor
of the Hotel Biltmore.
Mr. Smith, who came to New York on
1 Julv 10, on business, had complained of
1 ill health, and had summoned his wife
from Detroit on the plea that he had
ptomaine poisoning Mrs. Smith reach
ed New York early to-dav and was
about to have breakfast with her hus
band in his apartment when she miss
ed him. She said she did not see him
drop front sight or hear an outcry. Mr.
1 Smith was 3S years old.
DISPEL LATIN WAR CLOI'D
Special to the Telegraph
I Lima, Peru, July 15. —lt was stated
I officially here yesterday that there was
|no truth in the report that Peru and
1 Venezuela have concluded a secret
agreement with the object of taking
vast tracts of land, the nossesston of
which they dispute with Colombia and
Ecuador. Reports of such an agree
ment reached Latin-American diplo
matic quarters in Washington early this
week, giving rise to fears for the peace
of the four nations.
censorship ovir the development of
the Capitol. By act of Congress and
executive orders, all projects for pub
lic work in Washington, whether
buildings, statues, memorials or parts,
must be submitted for a review by
this commission, which is also required
to furnish advice on all questions of
art to the President end the commit
tees of Congress whenever called upon.
Mr. Anderson was so Impressed with
the River Front and Harrlsburg gen
erally that he has written the editor
[Continued on Page 5]
C. E. DELEGATES
GO TO GETTYSBURG
1,200 Leave For Battlefield by
Auto and Train; Great
Convention Ends
More than 1,200 delegates to the
I Christian Endeavor convention, which
I ended last night with the election of
i new officers and a stirring consecration
] meeting in Chestnut Street Auditorium,
| left early this morning on an excursion
i to the Gettysburg battlefield.
A large number left the city at 6
, o'clock by au'o truck and the others
! went to Gettysburg on the B.SO train.
The Adams county Endeavorers will
act as hosts and guides to the excur-
sionists. A 30-minute service was con
ducted in the battlefield cemetery by
the Rev. J. B. Baker, of Gettysburg.
Nearly four thousand Endeavorers
marched in the parade from conven
tion hall to the State Capitol yester
[Continuod on Page 16.]
Detective Kills Guest
in Mistake For Burglar
By Associated Press
Chicago, 111., July 15. T. Palmer
Miller, member of the 1912 class of
Dartmouth College, was shot and killed
early to-day by James Carrey, a detec
tive sergeant, who mistook him for a
burglar. Miller was at the home of a
friend when a burglar was discovered
entorlng the home.
While members of the familv and
several guests were pursuing the burg
lar across the lawn, Sergeant Garrey
arrived and fired two shots, one of
which struck Miller. Miller was 26
years of age and was an official of the
Consumers' Company, of this city.
Senate Starts Debate on
Naval Building Program
By Associated Press
Washington, July 15. Debate over
the building program of the naval bill
began in the Senate to-dav. This sec
tion provides for eight capital ships in
1917, instead of the House's five, and
contemplates completion of the Naval
General Board of the five-year building
program within three years. Debate
was expected to last several days
Senator Norris was on his feet late
yesterday to open an attack on the
j building plan, but leaders agreed to
postpone discussion until to-day be-
I cause of the small number of Senators
present.
Fear Forest Fire Will
Reach City of Athens
By Associated Press
Paris, July 16. The fire which de
stroyed the summer residence of King
Cdnstantlne of Greece, situated at Ta
tol on the outskirts of Athens, Is still
rating In the forest in which the Koval
Clfnteau stood. A Havas dispatch from
Athens says it is feared the flames will
reich tht <'lty.
[Vmone those who lost their lives in
ths? fire were Colonel De la Porta, of
th/- engineers; M. Chryssospathls. th«»
h«ad of the Royal Secret Service, and I
twenty soldiers. Fifty soldiers were in
jured while engaged in rescue work.
HARRISBURGERS
"DO THEIR BIT"
AT PLATTSBURG
7,000 at Second Military Train
ing Camp; Many Notables
Among Recruits
GENERAL WOOD TALKS
Declares Compulsory Military s
Training Is What Amer
ica Needs
FVom a Staff Correspondent
Plattsburg. N. Y., July 14.—The sec- \
ond 1916 military training camp for
business men openedaat the Plattsburg
post barracks Wednesday morning
amid much orderly confusion, if the I
term may be used. Special trains from i
North, East, Sputh and West poured
their hundreds into the sun-baked :
camping area, and by noon the two '
regiments of infantry were almost !
filled up with well over 2.500 men.
Added to the 3,100 students and ap
proximately 1,000 regulars from seven
separate coast artillery companies or
dered to the camp from various points
[Continued on Page 4]
'CYCLIST IS TRAIN" PROOF
MlUville, N. J.. July 15. The most
' remarkable accident that ever has
! been recorded in MlUville occurred
when Charles Norberry, while riding
, i motorcycle at a 30-mile clip, was
struck by a West Jersey & Seashore
' Railroad train at a crossing and re
ceived but slight bruises and cuts,
j The motorcycle, with Norberry still
on the seat, was carried on a bumper
of the locomotive until the train
was stopped, 500 feet from where the
accident occurred. The engineer al
most dropped to the ground when he
ran to the front of his engine and
saw the young man sitting on the
! fastened machine.
SLEW FOB HIT OF CREAM
| Pottsville, Pa., July 15. —An opin
\ ion was received from the Supreme
| Court yesterday declaring the trial of
j Dominic Digisio, who was recently
» convicted of murdering J. H. James,
1 a local merchant, was legal. The op
j inion has the effect of consigning
' Digisio to the electric chair, as the
i verdict was first-degree murder.
James was killed by Digisio in a
quarrel over three cents" worth of Ice
cream. The attorneys for the murder
er made the point that James hit
Digisio first with a small stick; but
Court rules that such a trifling In-
Jury did not Justify the resort to such
deadly weapons by tne murderer, who,
| taking deliberate aim, shot three bul
lets into James.
TROLLEY DISPUTE
GIVEN TO PUBLIC
Company and Union Both Give
Out Statements Setting
Forth Contentions >
Both the Harrisburg Railways
Company and the employes to-day ex
plained their respective positions in
the trolleymen's controversy.
The company's side of the case was
stated by President Frank B. Musser;
the car men's views were embodied In
a statement issued by Hugh L. Mc-
Laughlin, chairman of the grievance
committee, and John J. Thorp, organ
izer and vice-president of the Inter
notional Organization of Trolley Em
ployes.
In employes' circles. It was said,
practically determination to "strike"
[Continued on Page 7]
Assailant Crushes Head
of Woman, Then Engages
Husband in Pistol Duel
By Associated Press
St. Joseph, Mo., July 15. Mrs.
Oscar McDaniel, wife of the prosecut
ing attorney of Buchanan county,
whose skull was crushed by an un
identified man at her home about
midnight last night, died to-day with
out having regained consciousness.
Five shots were fired at her hus
band, who engaged in a revolver duel
with the man who escaped.
McDaniel recently has received let
ters threatening his life.
McDaniel was called down town by
a telephone message about 11:30. The
voice at the telephone said his brother
was ill and that he should take him
home. McDaniel drove in his automo
bile to the place designated, but did
not find his brother. He hurried home
and as he stopped his car in front of
the house a man opened fire on him
from behind a tree. After his assail
ar;' fled, the prosecutor went to his
wife's room where he found her sense
less on the floor, her head badly
crushed. Bloodhounds are being used
in an effort to track the assailant.
Harrisburg Rotarians
Entertain Delegates
Harrisburg Rotarians entertained
delegates from Reading, York.
ter. Pottsvllle, Philadelphia, Baltimore
and Washington Rotary clubs here to
day on their way to the international
convention of Rotary Club at Cincin
nati. They came here to Join the Har
risburg Pullman special, which went
i West this afternoon. The guosts wore
! receive d at Union Station and taken by
automobiles to the V. W. C. A., where
I Harrisburg ladies met them and lunch-
I eon was served. Afterward they were
j taken on an auto trip over the city.
The Harrisburg delegation includes
i many ladies, and is headed by Howard
C. Fry, president.
WEATHKR FOR WEEK
Washington, D. C.. July 15.—Weather
conditions for the week beorinning Sun
day. announced by the Wetahcr Bu
reau to-day, follow: Middle Atlantic
States, overcast weather and local i
showers first half of week and prob- I
ably fair latter half; temperature above
seasonal normal.
GERMANY AND
ITALY ARE NEAR
BREAKING POINT
Relations Reach Great Tension
Over Agreement Respect
ing Rights of Citizens
KAISER BREAKS PLEDGE
Depriving Italians in His Coun
try of Liberty of Action and
Suspends Payments
By Associated Press
Rome, July 15. A strong demand
has arisen In the press and among
the public for cancelation of the agree
ment. between Italy and Germany
whereby the rights of citizens of each
country within the other's domain
were to be respected violation of th 6
agreement by Germany being alleged.
The situation is such that the relations
of Italy and Germany seem to have
reached a greater tension than at any
time since the war began.
Before leaving Rome in the Spring
of 1915, Prince Von Buelow, then
German ambassador to Italy, con
cluded an agreement with the Italian
! government under which in case of
wai between Austria and Italy, Ger
many and Italy pledged themselves to
! respect the properties and lives of
I their respective subjects.
No State of War Exists
No state of war exists between
Germany and Italy and the agreement
negotiated by Prince Von Buelow is
still in force. Italy, according to offi
cial opinion here, has faithfully ob
served the agreement, retraining from
touching German property and freely
allowing subjects of the German em
pire to -reside .here. On the other
hand Germany' is unofficially accused
of violating the agreement in de
priving Italians in Germany of their
libfrty of action, preventing Italians of
military age living in Germany from
leaving that country, suspending pay
< menta due Italian- and treating them
a* subjects of hostile powers.
MEDALS FOR Old) EMPLOYES
By Associated Press
Calumet, Mich., July 16. Gold,
sliver and bronze medals were pre
sented to 1355 employes of the Calu
met and Hecla Mining Company here
to-day as a reward for having served
the company for from twenty to fifty
years. All of the 5,500 employes
wero given a holiday with pay.
,l ~ L E 8P O LI?*RET/K; ES 'SSISITJBNS'
a Berlin, July 15, via London.—Parts of positions in the I
1 Skrobowa region, north of the Volhynian sector, which were I
<j, taken from the Germans by the Russians on July-3, have
| been recaptured by German troops under Prince Leopold,
the war office announced to-day. More than 1500 prisoners l .">
j were taken. ff
{ FOUR MORE BANDITS SENTENCED
ST Laredo, Tex., July 15. —Jose Antonio Arre. Jesus Maria jj»
I Ccrdr and Pauline Sanchez and Vincente Lira, the four ( ; S
? alleged bandits, but self-styled members of the Mexican
I Constitutionalist army, charged with murder in connection V
9 with the killing of Corporal William Oberlies, of M troop, ft
1 14th United States Cavalry, to-day were found guilty by a I
i grand jury and sentenced to death. £
MRS. NEWTON SWAIN KILLS HERSELF ij
1
» £ Harrisburg.—Mrs. Newton A. Swain, aged 48, com- < *
J mitted suicide at her home, 1329 Penn street, this afternoon,
I by hanging herself to the bed post. Despondency is be- ' \
Y lieved to be responsible. >
i !
j
|
<» I
I 1,.;
MARRIAGE LICENSES 1
f
Joaeph David SHOW, und Catherine Hall Steele, Sunhnry. I
Hnrrj' Krelirr, Huiiimelatomi, and .Nellie Irene Kobb, Manadu l-II!!. I
Clarence Adam Mnellt, l.ant-uster, and Ida Rebecca Reno, Elliabetb- I
town. Ip
William H. Cooper and Maggie May Strlne, city. 7
ifr—»»■ Wfr— 1 — Art/** w <\V> w >in i/irfwi i W( rf]
CITY EDITION
16 PAGES
SURVIVORS TELL
THRILLING TALE
AFTER RESCUE
FROM COLLIER
All Aboard U. S. Hector Dis
abled in Hurricane, Safe;
Four Marines Injured;
Struggle in Great Seas
With Fires
FLAMES BREAK OUT
AS SHIP WALLOWS
Add to Terror of 142 Sailorr
and Marines on Board; Si;
Hours For Daring Rescu:
From Vessel Pounding t<
Pieces
Local Man on Hector
"Safe but Battered" |
"Safe. but badly battered."
This brief but cheering message
was received to-day by Miss C. J.
Ailams, of Perdix, formerly of this
olty, a sister of Captain Robert K.
Adams, of the United States ma
rine corps, on lxwrd the United
states naval eollier Hector, which j
grounded off Cliarleston, S. C., yes- s
By Associated Press
Charleston. S. C., July 15. Tal
of the unsuccessful fight of the nav
collier Hector against a gale whic
i blew from 110 to 120 miles an hou:
! great seas, fired and disabled engln<
'and the daring rescue of 10a men t
the tug Wellington were brought he:
to-day by the first survivors to lan>
The Wellington, storm-battered ar.
having lost her two barges, worked fc
six hours taking off the crew ar.
1 sixty marines which the Hector w;
t&king from Port Royal to Guantj
narno. Captain Joseph Newell, of tl
Hector, and about twenty men we;
taken off later by the steamer Cypres:-,
and the broken Hector was left to he
fate, seven miles northeast of Cai
[Continued on Page 7]
