JOE NI'DERMOTT!
lO» M.-OKRMOTT is rilK NAME OK TMK SKAT
T! V HOIVI • HARIIKR U 11(1 IS KIR IIMI TIIK SATIR
no \vrt'i;7.K romv tiik - wik i> maw koh
I.AI IMRPOSKS. Tilts TO I'AliK s \St>
KOIJ.KfT A utnut.K
BREMERTON WILL GET FUNDS
Saaffl® Explorers Go Sftal® Piny nS Top of World,
PRETTY CO-ED
TO BE STAR IN
ARCTIC FILM
Filming a three-reel feature film in the shadow of the
4ll»rth Pole and scouting, preliminary to an aero dash to
the top-'o-the-world, are si,lr jobs facing ( apt. Louis I-ane
and his crew of sportsmen, who. it was announced, will
sail from Seattle on the (itcat Bear expedition ah<>ut July 20.
These proposed details of the $S()O,(XX> Arctic expedition
were revealed by the sportsmen explorers Saturday, just
before their sturdy ice bucking craft puffed out of the Kast
Waterway en route to Pier 7.
Todar the* ar* loading her and
inttaiilnit a new braaa propeller,
tad before man* hour* h»ve
pu<"t ton* of aupplles, from rig
arcttea to whaling harpoona. will
be put aboard
A Regular Movie Man
"A Wild C.ooe# Cha*e." with
Anita Allen. Stanford coed aa tb*
•tar. la the title of the propoaed
ftlni H. A Krlckaon. San Olego
ttiovte man. who la alao after rolor
•ceoea, will operate the camera
and dlre't the production.
The acenarto has been com
pleted.
■'Ererytti'.nK la practically ready
now." Capt. Ijine explained. aa he
the final tuning of the
•fflne "We are almply aweeplng
«ut now and adding final touchea.
"More than $40,000 worth of aup-
Aliea. lacludlng ataple irocerlea.
hardware, ammunition and g-.ina.
will cooatlti-te the cargo. Theae
gooda will be exchanged with the
Eaqutmaux for fura."
Haw* No Cum Drops
When uk«<l If his cargo contain
ed any gum drop#, like t>o« Cook
took North. he smiled and said
they were passe with the blond
beaded citizens of the hi* ire
fields.
"That is all bunk." he explained
POPE TO ISSUE NEW
APPEAL FOR PEACE
HOME. July 15.—Pope Benedict,
!t is reported In church circle* here.
Is preparing to issue a second ap
peal for peace on the occasion of
the second anniversary of the be
ginning of the war. now only two
weeks away
The issuance of the appeal de
■lds upon the success of the al
ss in the present offensive.
EXPERT ECHO CHASER ON JOB
The side-hill wampus and
th* deeaaea woopenpuff are
hard to capture, but thsy are aa
nothing compared to the Illu
sive echo.
Thia 1a the contention of C.
W. Swan of New York.
Being an expert acoustician,
brought h«ra to track echoes
to their native lair among the
hard-faced walla of the rew
mllllon-dollar county-city build
ing, Swan naturally knowa a
thing or two about echoes.
This paper. Friday, carried a
brief news announcement that
Fwan had arrived, and was to get
12,000 if he could catch the who"*
In a couple of court rooms and th*
council chamber.
But it. was not until this morning
that Swan himself was cornered by
• reporter
Tells of His Plans
Me was asked to explain for Star
readers, what he was going to do.
how.
"Where did you team what an
Mpaaiplh nidi Slhqptardl Lndl Cwk EM®©® ©so Qi©©® Asa®© Lnwna
BY CORNELIA GLASS leye* away from the l.ndscspe and turned them upon her- very coolly, on. C.me rmm every hush .hnjh_
Yesterda - . I went out on Queen Anne hill on an assignment Hhe seemed conscious of hi* Indifference. For n moment 1 thought ""e at e if up f a i t« 1 | .on alio era tall man.
I found the story and *aa hurrying hack to the car pant the home »he n«s going to disappear buck Into the woods. " ""J 1 * B> "* "" "" "" ' *"* '_ v 'J' a h'"* ° r °'"
« » I t, ..II .11. «•> an .... ,0,,, " it',,' """
PThen I stopped and stared ' ,n,J "'°P imagining thing*_ WANTS HIM ,n ,ho nil(lBl of lh '" confusion another man appeared
In the center of an Idyllic little green dell a tall. T suddenly the nvmph -<--meri to deride that she wanted that "I think It's all right, l-ockwood. he announced. ' I'm fairly sure
brown youth wax standing shepherd, and I knew I hart to atay na long aa the dream laated • h»<i atopped winding when aho breezed In
In one hand he held a long shepherd a crook antl rfbc would ilrlft up tf> blni until alte almost touched him, dancing TAKING MOVIES OF NEW DANCE
hl . .i.onlder »» slung a gourd on a leather ..II the vhlle One u,slant <h« waa close to him and the next ahe wn. The man «aa abort and «<>cky. and hla hair «a» a brlcky red I
over nit unotild K laughing a» lnm from bohimj a trre It wai a mo"t ♦ xqniMte display of hadn't the faintest Idea what ho wan talking about, but he soemed an
thong. ... j i, coquetry nnd devlltrv angel to me.
lie wan clad mostly In a leopard akin and rough firadually the cold brown south began to thaw, lie Jollied In the The man lie called l-ockwood slopped shouting at me and laughed
brown leather aandala. and hla long black hair curled (l!inr „ pn(l p„ r „, l( ,,| her thru the tree, Bometlmcs they passed so I hen he explained
Hfiftlv over hla bronre ahouldera close to me that I could almost touch them They laughed continually It seems that he Is Mr \\ .f. 1-oekwood. the Selig Polvscope man,
softly over nis Bronze sn i other's eves nnd that he had been directing motion pictures of the Pastorale, I'av
still there He" paid no attention t. m. He Just CARRIES HER OFF INTO WOOD lon as and Mordkln's dance, which "ill he given Saturday night In the
. , ~ '_ r , h „ uriiiri (i Klnallv after one last mad whirl, the shepherd lifted the nymph Mush Kestlval concert.
Mood Hazing off over flu . in tossed her hlghci than his «<haKg* hlack head, caught her, He considered it a very Important picture, because it was the first
thinks SHE'S SEEING THINGS Mto her than h| «Y rtn «. time the dance had ever been Interpreted In amateur" and he had re
The bushes be bind him parted ever so slightlv ( wrHmh)p( , ovpr , (l( . WH || all( j started after them mted my intrusion
|» Itid a little green figure floated out and drifted pa-' nilglii be i dream ami all that, hut if it wan possible to Inter I met the shepherd and the nymph. Teel Williams and Ruth
.< him ... view a real wood nymph and a brown shepherd. I wanted to do It Ardis Wood, both Seattle dancers, and pupils of Mr,. Juva Ad
*• "You're dr. ;,mini' ' I told myself "It a overwork, or , , or „ „ rro „ ,he ,|elt lust as I rearhed the exact center, t heard -m. John.on. r .. mm . r , h . p,,
rtsrrat-.........— .• - - — - 1 - - -
' They want atuff the* can u»e
Qrocerlea go better,"
It la' aald by member* of the
rrew who made the trip north laat
Turn to Paoe «. Column 9
This picture shows how the
German super-submarina, the
Deutachland. afloat en the aur
face of tha water, resembles s
huge cigar.
As In the case of other vat
Acoustician Swan Tells a Star Re
porter How to Catch an Echo
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS J
VOLUME 19.
Giant Sea Rover
Looks Like a Huge
Cigar When Afloat
s«ls, the greater part of the
submersible is under water.
Only about 16 feat of the struc
ture of the boat extends above
the water line.
The big engines that drive
•-rho looks like, and how v'< get
him?" asked the news gatherer of
the echo catcher.
Swan adjusted hla tortoise rimmed
glasses and looked with obvious
pity upon his questioner
My boy," he said. I spent 20
>ears as laboratory assistant of
Prof. Saboen. of Harvard."
"Is he an erho --T"
"Don't get fresh, young fellow,"
went on Hwan "Prof Saboen is
the greatest acoustician in thla
country, and perhaps In the world
lie has xpeiit his life studying
sound, and how to regulate It. He
has solved some of the most diffi
cult problem* of modern architec
ture."
It se»ms that Hwan learned from
the professor how to make echoes
quit Jumping back and forth.
After the county and city offl
dale moved Into the big new build
lng at Third ave, and James
evervihlng fhey said repeated Itself
W hen thev swore once, people In
Turn to PjQe 8, Column 2
SEATTLE. WASH. SATURDAY. JULY 15. 1916
ORPET TO
BE FREED,
IS BELIEF
Case Goes to Jury; Judge's
Charge Encourages
Defendant
PRISONER IS NERVOUS
COURTROOM. Waukegan,
111., July IS.—Aa the Jury trying
Will Orpet for Marian Lam
bart'a murder ratirad to conald
ar ita verdict. It carried Into
tha Jury room Inatructlona from
the court which attorneya for
tha defenae believed precluded
any verdict other than acquit
tal.
"Nothtn* ahort of proof ao clear
and ronvlnclnn a* to esclude any
reasonable h> potheala of lnno<-cni'«
will lafjr ft man. and without
proof the Jury tnuat find htm not
entity," Judge t'harlea II Donnelly
declared "A mere possibility la
not aufftclent."
The court, however, added that
the boat are about In the m!d-
dla of tha veaaal. at the rear.
Whan tha boat la In motion on
top of tha water, the obaerv
era In the conning tower are
the only -rtembera of the craw
above the water leva*.
the Jury must ivinftder the evidence
aa a whole and that If they firmly
believed de*plte contradictory ev|
ilen<" that Orpet (tn*e Marian c>
anlde of !>o!a**liim, wheiher he or
■he hrotmht It to Itelnia woods,
i hey should find him KUttty of mur-i
der
Judge Donnelly's Inatructlona [
i ame after a dramatic closing plea
for ronvlctlofi by Special Proaecut
or David R Joalyn.
There are four forma of verdict
poaalble Not guilty, guilty with
death penalty, guilty with life 1m
prlaonment, and guilty with Inde
terminate prlaon wentenre
Th«> Orpet tragedy to date ha*
<:o*t l-ake county approximately
$.10,000. Throe weeka were apent
In aetertlnit th» jury, moat of whom
are farmer* The trial proper ha*
been under way five weelta.
DESTROYER IS SUNK
BKRMN. .lulv 16. By Wlrelesa
to Havllle An Italian destrovrr of
the Indomlto type wan *»ink last
Monday by »n Austrian submarine
Why Not Putnam?
Bar*. Putnam direction, we say it
in black and white—in public—in The Star.
And so, during the week, wr have given the «hertff
matter some serious consideration We ha\e locked
over the list of tho«e who have announced themselves
and those who may announce themselves Some are
fair, M>mc better, other* not even passable.
Then we happened to think of Sergeant Victor R
Putnam of the Seattle police department.
Today we can readily answer the question of our
Rood friend.
Sergeant Putnam it the beat man for aheriff
King county could get.
This suggestion is made voluntarily by The Star
Serjeant Putnam will, no d<>ubt, be the most sur
prised to learn of it. We have never talked it over
with him So far as we know, it has never been sug
gested to him before. We do not know if be has any
ambitions along that line We do nut know if he will
run. or even consider it
Rut we DO know this:
Sergeant Putnam's record in the police department
is as clean as a whistle. He has "pep," and honesty,
and determination When Chief Beckingham put Put
nam in charge of the booze wrecking squad, Putnam
asked only one thing.
"IF I'M i.olM. T( > BK 11 KIT) RF.SPONSIBLF
FOR STAMPING OUT THE BUNDPIGGERS,
lUST PROMISK Ml 1 WONT BF. INTFRFF.RKD
WITH." 111. SAID. "AND I LL DRAW NO DIS
TINCTIONS I'LL (iKT 'KM ALL."
And he has done just that. Sergeant Putnam's ser
vice as bead of the "booze squad" ha< given him a more
than city-wide fame He has an unswerving sense of
dtttv lie lias character He has brains.
IN THK OPINION OF THF STAR. SI RtiFANT
PUTNAM WOULD HI- ITIF. HI ST MAN IN KIN(i
COUNTY TO KLKCT AS Si IKR IFF.
RULE U-BOAT IS
WASHINGTON, July 15.—
The state department an
nounced today It considers the
Deutschland a peaceful ship,
"In view of all the facts In the
case."
There will he no formal de
clsion by Acting Secretary of
Itfc« * ft* ONE CENT
A PKIIfND of The
Star called us
up the other day.
"Who is the best
man for sheriff in the
coming election?" he
wanted to know.
Frankly, The Star
had till then given the
matter no very care
ful thought.
It is not our policy,
as with some other
newspapers, to call
secret conferences
with politicians and
"handpicked" candi
dates. We try to pick
the best candidates
from among those
who announce them
selves. The Star does
not send out anv
agents, or reporters,
or editors, to suggest
to this or that man
that he run for this
or that office.
If we have any
thing to say in this
PEACEFUL SHIP
Stat* Polk
Polk notified Secretary of tho
Treasury McAdoo formally of hi*
opinion.
Th<- «tate department announced
tlint the deoiMnn may not make a
precedent and thai arrival of in
other liner would bf trt>atr>d hb a
• separate and Independent case
LAST EDITION
MORE OR I.K-H TROI'RI.K ON TMK WATER
KRONT IKiK-N I HOT HER THE WEATHER MAN
HK.-i rjOT IIIH HITM'I.Y OK WET OOOI>£. II HT THE
SAME HE I'ROMI'MiATKI) TW'HI.Y TOHAY: TO
NIGHT ANII HfNOAY, OO'ARIONAI, RAIN."
U. S. TO EQUIP
SOUND YARD
IMMEDIATELY
WASHINGTON, July 15.—Senator Weeks of Massachusetts thli
afternoon was defeated in an attempt to prevent the Immediate equip
ment of the Puget Sound, Norfolk, Philadelphia and Boston navy yards
for battleahip construction.
His motion to reconsider action take nyeaterday favorable to thow
' yards was beaten, i 8 to 16.
The senate yesterday voted an appropriation of $6,000,000 to fit
the Bremerton, Philadelphia. Boston and Norfolk navy yards for ship
building purposes
The money is to be available immediately.
The house already has passed this appropriation, and only th«
president's signature is now necessary.
This appropriation, while initiated by Senator Polndexter's bill to
equip the Bremerton yard, is largely an administration measure.
Secretary of th« Navy Daniel* was particularly intereated in tecur-
Ing an appropriation for the Bremerton navy yard, and personalty ap
peared before the naval committee to urge it* adaptability to battleship
construction.
DID YOU EVER HEAR THE STORY
OFLAFE AND THE POOR PRUNE?
THIS I* th« story of a poor
prune that fell Into the
hands of I«fe Hamilton's
sister In law and wound up In the
poorhouse.
We refer you to Voucher No.
287.100.
Go to the county auditor s of
fice and turn to the rigfit. There
you'll find th» tell-tale voucher
hidden In a tin can with a lot of
other papers.
Now to go ahead *ltb the story.
The poor prune was born and
raised on a farm at Des Moinoc,
near the end of the brick road
ai<d the f<rry landing Ijife Ham
ilton s farm Is at Des Moines,
also.
He must have been a poor
prune because be *as worth only
a »mall fraction of a cent.
Ijis( fall the poor prune rot
his jcro»th. and Mrs U Sanger,
the sister In la*. pulled him down
off the tree, alone with enough
other prun»z to make 160 pounds.
Now comes the sad pan of It.
The poor prune hustled off, in
company «ith five dozen cucum
bers. 40 pounds of blackberries,
about 70 dozen ears of corn, and
a bevy of tomatoes and other
habitues of the garden—over the
hill to the poorbouse at George
town
Voucher No 267.100 must tell
the rest of the tale
MRS SANGER GOT 1112 OS,
ACCORDING TO YOICHER NO
267.100. FOR THE POOR
LAFE'S BOYS IN SECRET MEETING
The Star's man got thru the
heavily guarded door into Lafe
Hamilton's regular weekly se
cret political meeting in the jan
itors' room, at the county-city
building. Friday afternoon, and
"got the meetin's goat."
It was the fourth meeting of
Lafe's machine to lick the boys
employed around the building
as Janitors, carpenters, paint
era, plumbers and marble-wip
ers Into line to vote for his ma
chine candidates.
The Star man's face was scan
ned. but he went ii> unrecognized
The me»*lnj. was i-nlled to order,
the minutes of the previous met t
inn read, md discussion of an in
formal nat'ire as to where The
Star reporter was hiding took
place.
No business "as tranMCted.
Instead, every one prisent, In
cluding The Star's man himself,
bent his energies tawards locating
the reporti
He wasn't found!
Is Tik©ns a FBawfess "p)
WoaaaEi Sua dte Worfdl a
There was—once
And she lived in quaint Saxe-Oldenburg.
Heselton, the Captain of the King's Guard, lived
there, too. And he hated —
But the story starts in Monday's Star.
It is "The Little Gray Slipper,"
A novel by Percy Brebner.
START READING IT MONDAY
It will be complete in six issues.
PRUNE AND THE REST OP
THE TRUCK.
That was last September.
It goes to show that Ham
ilton's sister-in-law is a keen
business woman
In October, Mrs Ranger sofa
some more stuff to the county
poor house for $81. «■
In November she sold $52.1$
worth.
And so on—
AND THE STI FF WAS AI.L
GROWN ON THE FARM AT
DEB MOINES. BUT I.AFE
DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
DO WITH IT. HE WASN'T
EVEN INTERESTED IN THE
POOR PRUNE
Ah a matter of fact, he couldn't
b<* Interested, being a county
commissioner, becauae the law
says'
"Any public officer who shall
be beneficially interested, direct
ly or indirectly, in any contract,
sale, lease or purchase which
may be made by. thru or under
the supervision of such officer,
in whole or in part * • * or
accept, directly or indirectly, any
compensation, gratuity, or re
ward from any other person
beneficially interested therein,
shall be guilty of a gross misde
meanor."
WD THK PENALTY FOR
< 1 R< >SS MISDEMEANORS IS
IMPRISONMENT IN THEOOI'N
TV .1 All. FOR NOT MORE
THAN ONE YEAR. OR \ FINE
OK NOT MORE THAN $1,000. OR
BOTH.
Nohodv rpincil ansious to start
anything, and all present seemed
erei'ly relieved when I/Miia
Huney. who draw* pay as a "jan
itor" but * ho works a» bailiff in
one of the justice i Mirts. moved to
adjourn.
llnney na* to draw his ]>a> as
"Janitor," :is the law does not pro
vide for '.uulitfs in justice courts.
Several of the boys enjoy doing
the same thing under Hamilton's
system
H'.mey's notion - vas seconded
and passed Mild the nutting closed
IT'S GOING TO RAIN
RIGHT THRU SUNDAY
There it a fat chance of let
ting the little sunshine in Sat
urday night or Sunday.
This comes straight from
Gen. Salisbury of the weather
corps on the Seattle front.
The drizzle is slated to driz
zle for at least 36 hours yet.
