THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, i1N0
R Democratic journal, devotcd to Local and (3ncral News, Literature, Science, Agriculture, etc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1916 NUMBER
- -I·-- II- !- I-- II--------- - - ----------
Oflicial Proceedings of the Grant Par
ith Police Jury.
Colfax, La., July 5, 1916.
The police jury met pursuant
to adjournment. All the mem
bers were present.
The minutes of the proceed
ings of July 3 were read and ap
proved.
Joana Van Dyke came before
the police jury asking to be placed
on the pauper' list. On motion
her case was laid over for fur
ther action.
On motion it was ordered that
Joe Means and his wife, Betty
Means, be placed on the pauper
list with Mr. John Randolph, of
Fairmount, as agent.
On motion the following reso
lution was adopted by the police
jury:
Resolved, That the president
of the police jury be and he is
hereby authorized and instructed
to make inquiry concerning the
contracts for road work in ward
two lately entered into by the
road commissioners of said ward,
and to take such legal action as
may be n, cessary in the premises, 4
it being understood that the
president will act in concert with
and according to the advices of
the District Attorney.
Mr. Benton came before the
police jury and made astatement
regarding his work.
On motion it was ordered that
Mr. Benton be allowed to use a
man to help in his work at the
rate of one dollar per day, when
ever it is necessary.
The followieg names of appli
cants for parish health officer
were placed in nomination: Dr.
D. V. Donaldson, of Dry Prong;
Dr. J. L. Woodall, of Colfax;
Dr. Lee Willett and Dr. J. W.
Wilson, of Pollock. Dr. Donald
son being the iirt name placed in
nominitio- for this office was
vdted on first. When the vote
was taken four memli~.s voted
for Dr. Donaldson. It was then ,
moved that the vote be made 4
unanimous for Dr. Donaldson as I
parish health officer, which mo
tion carried.
On motion C. A. Nugent was
elected as a member of the Board
of Supervisors of Election.
On motion H. G. Goodwyn was
elected parish printer.
On motion of Mr. Purvis it was
ordered that the matter of the
Lemoine road be deferred until
August 11th meeting, and that
the clerk of the police jury noti
fy the parties concerned to ap
pear at ,that meeting to show
cause why this public road should
not be granted.
On motion a resolutiod was
adopted levying a tax of ten mills
on all the assessed property in
the parish of Grant for the year
1916.
On motion a resolution was
adopted levying a tax of five
mills on all the assessed property
in road districts number one and
number five of Grant parish for
the year 1916, to protect pay
ments on account of bonds and
coupons maturing in the year
1917.
On motion Mr. Newton Wil
liams was appointed to succeed
C. W. Calhoun as road apportion
er in ward 6.
On motion it was ordered that
the president of the police jury
be authorized to sign a note to
the Bank of Colfax for $5,500 to
XIfDIf NE
Stops Chills And Fever
When you are all run down and the chills and fever grip
GUARANTLED you every other day take Oxidine. It will drie the RmydWhil1UMam
malaria out of your system and make you well and strong. K. T.ea. a
No more headaches, constipation. billiousness and Lassitude. the e. Dru. Cs.
Oxidine is guaran- Oxidine does way with all these. It rids you of Malaria. r, . T ae
teed. This is an iron- , .i o..... hu .l
;:,-: Crrc ,An Excellent Tonic
clad guarmatee. If 411 ivde it Tonic ' d ý"'""`
Oxidi¢ does not stop ,a. " e
the wont case of ma- Those who live in .alarial countries are apt to have , I sens ..r' ofi
laria return all empty malaria. Oxidinc will ward it ol Taken once a week d we I m
bottles to your drug- it will keep the bowels open, the kidneys and liver work- eU n. "d Am bee bI..
gist and you will re. isg right and make your blood ru fast and red-puts the ra'L h .a e %i
eeive full Purchase t i.,yoqt eye. Oxidine a wondrful topic and pre. m a ne ahwy m e is
ventive. Try a boank, Fifty eats at all 4ruggists. to..WSUi i
riceThe EHD DUG CO., Wac. TeFIa
pay all amounts owing by the
parish at this time.
On motion it was ordered that
the old ferry rates at the Boyce
ferry be re-established, and that
a rate of 75c on each automobile
be fixed for the Boyce ferry.
On motion it was ordered that
the sheriff be allowed 50c a day
for feeding each prisoner, begin
ning July 1, 1916.
On motion Dr. W. R. Buffing
ton was authorized to work with
his road outfit from his end of
the road back thid way until the
motor truck cap be operated, pro
tvided the expense of the work
does not exceed $15 per day.
It was ordered that Mr. W. A.
Brownlee, president of the pelice
jury be authorized to take charge
of the motor truck and have such
use made of the same as may be
to the best advantage in his
judgment.
On motion it was ordered that
the president of the police jury
be authorized to purchase a sup
ply of fire wood for the court
house and jail.
The police jury acting as a
committee of the whole visited
and inspected the jail, arid find
ing the same in need of repairs
ordered that the president and
sheriff be authorized to confer
with contractors as to prices,
etc., for the purpose of having
the necessary repairs made and
report to the police jury at meet
ing of August 11, 1916.
The police jury adjourned until
nine o'clock a. m., Friday, Aug.
11, 1916.
W. A. BROWNLEE,
President.
Miss H. E. CAMERON,
Secretary.
A Doctor's Remedy for Coughs.
As a cure for coughs and colds Dr. c
Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey combines these
remedies in just the right proportion
do the most good for summer coughs
or colds. A trial will prove the value
of this splendid cough medicine. Dr. c
Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey soothes the ir
ritition, stops your cough, kills the
cold germs and does you a world of
good. A 25c bottle will more than con- c
vince you-it will stop your cough. At
druggists. -Adv. -3. 1
AN ORDINANCE.
Whereas more than one-fourth of the I
property tax payers of Ward Number
Four of Grant parish, Louisiana, eli
gible to vote in a tax election in said
Ward Number Four of said parish have
petitioned the police jury to order an
election in said ward to determine
whether or not a special five mills tax
for five years beginning with the year
1916 and ending with the year 1920.
both years inclusive, shall be levied
and collected on all the property in said
ward subject to taxation, for the pur
pose of building and maintaining the
public roads in said Ward Number Four
and whereas it is the opinion of this
body that the contemplated building
and maintaining of public roads is for
the public welfare, and whereas, aside
from said petition it is the voluntary
will of this body to call the election
herein provided for; and
Whereas Article 232 of the Consti
tution of 1913 authorizes the levying
and collection of such a tax on the
property of Ward Number, Four when
authorized by an election held for that
purpose; and
Whereas Act 256 of 1910 and amend
ments provides the method of holding
such election,
Section one
Now, therefore, be it ordained by the
Police Jury of Grant varish in lawful
session convened, That an election is
hereby ordered to be held in Ward
Number Four of Grant parish on Wed
nesday the 9th day of August, 1916, at
which election a majority of the prop
erty tax payers of said Ward Number
Four in number and amount, eligible to
vote and voting shall determine the
proposition to levy a five mills tax on
all the taxable property in said Ward
Number Four for a period of five years
beginning with the year 1916 and end
ing with the year 1920. for the purpose
of building and maintaining the public
roads in said Ward Number Four.
Section two
Be it further ordained. That the
clerK of th^ police jury is instructed to
prepare for use at said election a suffi
cient number of ballots on each of
which shall be printed substantially the
provisions mentioned in section one of
this ordinance, to-wit:
PROPOSITION to levy a five
mills tax on all property in s
Ward Number Four of Grant
parish, Louisiana, for a per
1od of five years. beginning
with the year 1916 and end
ing with the year 1920, for the No
purpose of building and main
taining the public roads in
said Ward Number Four.
Taxable valuation, $........................
Signature of voter ........ ..............
NOTICE TO VOTER.
To vote in favor of the proposition
submitted on this ballot place a cross
(X) mark in the square after the word
"yes," and to vote against the propo
sition place a similar mark in the square
after the word "no."
Section three
Be it further ordained, That the
clerk of the police jury is instructed to
have prepared for use at said election
all necessary ballot boxes, tally sheets,
registrar's lists of property, tax pay
e's eligible to vote in said election and
the valuation of their property, blank
lists for entering the names of those
who actually vote in said election and
compiled statement blanks for com
piling the votes in number and amount.
Section four -
Be it further ordained, That the
compensation of the election commis
sioners at said election shall be three
dollars per day for one day, for the
clerk three dollars per day for one day,
and for the returning officer three dol
lars per day for three days, and the
said election shall b. held at the fol
lowing polling places and by the offi
cers here named, each being a regis
tered voter:
At Buckelew precinct- Wm. Harkins
Ed Guilliams and R. M. Deen, commis
sioners; J. E. Watson, clerk; and B.
F. Moore. returning officer.
At Lincecum precinct-J. L. Kent,
F. P. Tabor and R. Rambo, commis
sioners; Wm. Rambo, clerk; A. J. Bil
bo, returning officer.
Section five
Be it further ordained, That notice
of this election containing the proposi
tion herein submitted to the voters,
shall be prepared and signed by the
president and secretary of the Police
Jury and shall be published in the offi
cial journal four weekly insertions, the
date of the first insertion to be not
less than thirty days before the date
of the election. The said notice shall
further recite that on the 11th day of
August, 1916, at 12 o'clock noon, the
police jury will meet at the court house
in Colfax in said parish and there in
public session open the ballot boxes,
examine and count the ballots both as
to number and amount, and examine
and count the returns, and declare the
result of said election and promulgate
the same.
W. A. BROWNLEE,
President
MISS H. E. CAMERON,
Secretary.
Preparedness
We believe in preparedness in every sense of the
word and we practice what we preach. We are
prepared to make some very strong statements, and
we are also prepared to back them up. We are
prepared to help you enjoy peace and prosperity, and can only do so hav
ing your attention. We are prepared to offer you some wonderful good
things and want you to have them
Just Keep Your Eye on this Ad.
Ladies' House Dressee--$1 to $3.50 val- regular $3.50, $4.50 and $5 values, go
ues, closing out at 75c, $1 and $1.50. ing at $2.85, $8.25 and $4.
Poplin and Embroidery Dresses-just a Crosmet Shoes-low cuts, closing out en
few left-worth $5 to $8, closing out tire line at $2.75, $3.15 and $3.95.
at $3.50 to $5.00. Our shoe bargain counter is a wonder.
Children's Dresses-- in ginghams, worth Don't fail to see it.
from 50c to $1.25, closing out at 35c to A few pairs of men's summer drawers
75c. In white, $1 to $4 values going regular 50e sellers, bargain counter
at 50c to $2.50. price, 40c.
Sateen-a few pieces of first-grade sat- Mal u-- We are
een, worth $1 per yard, thrown on the lry o- ~t cl singout
counter at 75c. all Spring Hats at 25 per cent to 50
Men's Palm Beach and Flannel Suits-A per cent reductions. AU American
few of each closing out at $5 to $7. Beauty Corsets at actual cost.
Palm Beach Pants-worth $3, closing We have many other items of interest
out at $2.50. too numerous to mention at closing out
Bostonian Shoes-for mnen, in low cuts, prices.
Don't fail to see our Bargain Counters--Many things BELOW COS
Our Fall shipments have already begun to arrive, and our shoe stock was'
never so complete. We are better prepared to render first-class service tian
ever before.
We are headquairters for your wants and han4le the very best grade of
me"chandise at all times.
We buy all heavy stuff strictly in car lots, which gives us an advantage ia
price.
Come and see us and we will do the rest.
J. W. Duncan Co. Ltd.
Railroad Ave. Colfax, La.
-I ... ... . .. . ..... .. . ... . " . . . . . - - - . . . .. . . .
Coastipation sad Indlgestleo.
"I have used Chamberlain's Tablets
and must say they are the best I have
ever used for constipation and indi
gestion. My wife asio used them for
indigestion and they did her good,"
writes Eugene S. Knight, Wilmington,
N. C. Chamberlain's Tablets are mild
and gentle in their action. Give them
a trial. You are certain to be pleased
with the agreeable laxative effect
which they produce. Obtainable every
where.-Adv.
ORDINANCE NO. 2602.
By Mr. Faraldo
An ordinance making it unlawful for
any rider of bicycles, motorcyles, or
other vehicles, (baby carriages, carts,
and tricycles excepted), to ride on
the sidewalks of the town of Colfax,
La., and fixing penalties therefor.
Section 1. Be it ordained by the
mayor and board of aldermen of the
town of Colfax, Louisiana, in regular
session convened, That it shall be un
lawful for any rider of a bicycle, motor
cycle, or other vehicle, (baby harri"ges,
carts or tricycles excepted), to ride up
on the sidewalks of the town of Colfax,
Louisiana.
Section 2. Be it further ordained,
etc., That any one violating any of the
provisions of this ordinance shall be li
able to arrest, and upon conviction be
fore the mayor shall be fined in a sum
of not less than one dollar nor more
than five dollars at the discretion of
the mayor, and in default of payment
of fine and costs to be imprisoned in
the town lockup for a period of not
less than one day nor more than five
days, subject to work on the streets.
Section 3. Be it further ordained,
etc., That all laws or parts of laws in
conflict with any of the provisions of
this ordinance be and the same are
hereby repealed.
Adopted unanimously this June 8,
1916, by sections and as a whole.
Yeas-Carnahan, Dean, Faraldo, WH
liams, Goodwy--6. Nays--0.
J. Q. LONG,
A. M. GOODWYN, Mayer.
-***7.
Taking Big Ckhaces.
It is a great risk to travel without
a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy, as this prepa
ration cannot be obtained on the trains
or steamships. Attacks of bowel com
plaint are often sudden and very severe
and everyone should go prepared for
them: Obtainable everywhere.-Adv.
"Busy
Again"
A Soloqty in
Two Paragaph
",t'w tie th ird tms ts maflm. I men wam
a mem eager m eh, fislw. Iom t n ms --whda is
swag .lmhh?
"If Jones womt provide smas eode .. I
ties for his emomrs. he er't Ime m for deols
deembem. Operr, give s 437."
How do you kuow this viy oeelmo damss
hmppen wiro y uagle kmphe m ae amav. sIy
ie:; the cost is 1Wi. CIx elSihe. uiuin. se
CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE
& TELEGRAPH COMPANY
a-I
SNo. 666 /
_ TYý h isumiphlýNa h~m emh/
h MAL.ARIA 6' CHILLS "
Figs or dz dim wibreak 4
* Vgakeutheea a se.mie . w.rr,
