-tf
OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
JULl M'Jib
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
i.
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 13
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JULY 15, 1916
One Dollar a Year
eaboradvocAte
Organized Labor Appeals for Assistance
Executive Board of the Ohio Federation of Labor Asks the Democratic Party to Help Them
Save the Workmen's Compensation Law in Ohio. Task Accepted by the Democratic
Leaders of the State. Constitutional Amendment will be Offered to the People in
Order to Save the Compensation Law.
Columbus, O. Whether two powerful
organizations, working in perfect har
mony, but with only limited funds, but
large enthusiasm, can roll up 115,000
names on an initiative petition in the
short space of three weeks, is a question
soon to be solved. The proposal to be
submitted is a constitutional amendment
making impossible the participation of
liability insurance companies in the
workmen's compensation plan. The
draft of the section has been completed
by former Attorney General Timothy S.
Hogan and Judge George li. Okcy, and
the formal approval has been given by
the Attorney General.
The original proposers of the amend
ment are the members of the Executive
Committee of the State Federation of
Labor, but official announcement is now
made that the labor men have been
joined by the Democratic State organ
ization. This is a movement held here
to be highly significant, as the formation
of the "alliance" for work on the matter
was partially at the suggestion of the
labor men. accenting, as thev did. the
siiincutofAtcDjinow:?.tK;Kfpsfi'tys,.
leader, lormcr Oovcrnor James M. Cox,
that he would devote his time to writing
into the organic law a prohibition
against these companies.
Jtcpiiblicniis Xot Invited.
It is of further interest and impor
tance that the Republican State organ
ization was not invited into the matter,
nor has it offered its services. The
Democrats see the situation as tending
to their own advantage and possibly
forcing the Republicans either to ask to
be made partners in the plan or to be
forced openly to oppose the "allies."
The proposal which the alliance
wishes to incorporate into the Constitu
tion is purposely attached to thc Work
men's Compensation section, which was
adopted in 1012. In no way does it at
tack the right of employers of labor to
carry their own industrial hazard insur
ance instead of subscribing to the State
insurance i'und. It purposely spares
this right, the labor men perceiving the
wisdom of making this concession that
they may not array industrial establish
ments against them.
The petitions arc still to be printed,
distributed, filled with names, returned
and filed, and all this must be done be
fore August 7. If, as now seems proba
ble, the Anti-Civil Service Association
is unable to secure sufficient names the
Workmen's Compensation Amendment
will be the only proposed constitutional
change before the voters. It is an enor
mous task for the length of time still
at the disposal of the federation and its
allies, but the leaders say that they will
tax all their energies to make it succeed.
Here is the proposal:
Can't Insure Against Loss.
"Article II., Section 35a. Nil contract
or agreement shall be entered into
whereby an employer is indemnified or
insured against loss or liability for the
payment of compensation to workmen
nr their dependents for death, injury or
occupational disease occasioned in the
course of such workmen's employment,
or whereby the insurer agrees to pay
such compensation or damages when the
iniury, disease or death arises from fail
ure of the employer to comply with any
lawful requirement for the protection
of the lives, health and safety of em
ployees, or when the same is occasioned
by the willful act of the employer or
any of his officers or agents. Laws shall
be passed providing for the punishment
of violations of the provisions of this
section."
The provision is made self-executing,
and it is left to the General Assembly
only to provide the criminal section by
law. The employer, under the amend
ment, will be forced to come into the
State fund or actually carry his own in
surance and assume what is termed the
"open liability" without any hope of se
curing indemnity.
STOP TO INSURANCE WRITING
Planned Uj Federation of Labor
Througli Lawyers Hill To lie
Presented in I'lace of An Amend
ment Unions Seek To J)rivo
Liability Companies From Work
men's Compensation Field.
The Ohio State Federation of Labor
has decided not to submit a constitu
tional amendment in the matter of per
mitting insurance companies to compete
with the Ohio Industrial Commission in
writing workmen's compensation poli
cies. The Federation and its attorneys
say the constitution of the State of Ohio
as it now exists is all sufficient on which
to base legislation which will prevent lia
bility and casualty insurance companies
writing workmen's compensation.
Attorneys for the Federation, former
Attorney General Timothy S. llogan,
and Judge GeorgcB. Okcy, Columbus,
now arc engaged in drawing up a bill
to be initiated by the Federation, which
will be presented to the next General
Assembly for passage. If passed, the bill
would eliminate insurance
ranee companies
rT,r.r.?.Ls ,. .r:-',-apa,crii..saiwpx2cgjaute.;1)lr;lnts; '011 'tnc-ground-
s.ini mar pians ai a meeting next wcck
of the Executive Committee of the Ohio
State Federation of Labor. 4
The plan under consideration, of in
itiating a bill instead of submitting a
constitutional amendment, offers greater
opportunities of success, it is said, be
cause of the greater length of time nec
essary to obtain signaturcsi to petitions.
In submitting a constitutional amend
ment the Federation had until August 7
to file petitions, but by initiating a bill
they have until December 20 to obtain
signatures.
If such bill initiated is presented to
the Legislature, it must be acted upon in
four months. If the body refuses to act
upon it, the Federation, by obtaining the
signatures of 3 per cent more of the
electors of the- State can submit it for
lefcrendum at the next general election.
If the bill is defeated in the Legislature,
the Federation, by serving notice within
!)() days after the defeat of the bill, can
pursue the same course as if Legisla
ture refused to act'upon the measure.
COUNTED PROPOSITION IS MA11K
TO AVAITKIIK.
Cleveland, Ohio. Waiters' demands
that hotels grant them an increase in
wages were answered by a counter
proposition Thursday by the Hotel
Men's Association,- which will be con
sidered by the waiters' union.
President James P. A. O'Conor, of
the hotel association, declined to dis
cuss the terms of the counter proposi
tion. Leaders of both sides, however,
expressed the belief that the controversy
would be settled satisfactorily.
PUDDLKUS PAV UAISHD.
Youngstown, Ohio, July 12. Puddlcrs
employed by the Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Company will share the increased
puddling rate announced this W'eek by
the A. M. Hyers Company, Girard, ac
cording to announcement by lames A.
Campbell, president, today. The pud
dling rate has been advanced from
$7.42 to ffS.-lO a ton. Both plants are
under the same wage for puddlcrs.
WOBKKItS LOCKED OUT.
Boston. More than 100 men and
women employed by the Iioston Insulated
Wire company have been locked out be
cause they presented a demand for high
er wages and organized a union affiliated
to the Brotherhood of Electrical Work
ers. The girls, who have been paid from$5
to $0 for a week of .14 hours, arc asking
for a flat increase of $2 a week and a
50-hour week, and the men, who have
been receiving from $0 to 10 a week,
are seeking a weekly increase of $2 and
the same number of hours. They also
ask recognition of the union.
CLEVELAND WANTS TO KNOW?
Asks Candidates' Stand On Liquor
Personal Liberty League Re
quests Answers on Wet and Dry.
Views Only Congressional and
Legislative Aspirants Are Questioned.
Cleveland. Democratic and Repub
lican candidates for nominations in the
primary, August 8, for Congress and the
Ohio Legislature arc asked in letters be
ing sent out by the Personal Liberty
League of Cuyahoga County to state
their views on home rule, personal lib
erty, license and regulation of the liquor
traffic, and on State and National pro
hibition. The league will place the candidates
on record by issuing a pamphlet prior
to August 1, giving the replies received
from the contestants.
No pledges are asked by the league,
but the letters put the wet and dry ques
tion squarely up to tnc candidates, ihc
'!..:.. .ii:V: 1.. i- : i
fuut ,..,. ,i fi,nr nri:,Info nl-
that county and other candidates seek
purely administrative offices.
, This is the data asked of the candi
dates by the league: Business. Previ
ous public record. "What is your atti
tude as to the principle- of home rule?"
"Do you favor the largest amount of
personal liberty consistent with good
government?" "Do you favor the li
cense and proper regulation of the
liquor traffic?" "What are your views
on State and National prohibition?"
GUARDSMEN SAY FAMILIES
AREN'T PROVIDED RELIEF
News Field Headquarters, Camp Wil
lis, O., July 11. bcores of Cleveland
soldiers, disheartened by the hardships
their families are undergoing, are plan
ning to apply for releases, commanders
of Cleveland military units said Tues
day. Pathetic letters from wives and aged
parents arc pouring in camp here, tell
ing stories of hunger and threatened
evictions.
Commanders arc being deluged with
pleas to send husbands and fathers
home. The letters say, that although
applications have been made to the
Cleveland Citizen Commission, appli
cants have been told they will have to
wait two or three weeks longer, until
th'ejr cases can, be reached.
Lieutenant-Colonel J. R. McQuigg, of
the Engineers, a member of the Cham
ber of Commerce Military Committee,
wrote a letter to the committee today,
urging the ricf work be speeded up.
DONNELLY WAS WISE
Secretary of Ohio Federation of
Labor Turns Down .lob With
String To It.
Columbus, 0. Shrewd politics, frus
trated by the declination of Thomas
Donnelly to consider the offer, was
sought to have been played by the ad
ministration in the selection of a suc
cessor to Fred C. Croxton, head of the
Bureau of Investigation, Mediation and
Statistics under the State Industrial
Commission.
Donnelly, whose home is in Cincin
nati, is Secretary of the State Federa
tion of Labor. He is a Democrat in
politics. The theory advanced here for
the consideration of Donnelly was that
if he were attached to the State admin
istration", it might help to neutralize the
opposition of organized labor to certain
features of the administration's policies.
Word, however, is said to have been
received that Donnelly would not be
interested in the position, which pays
$11,300 a year.-
Building Trades Council
Holds Regular Meeting. A
Transacted. Nomination
Night. Election the Last
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
Secretary Hock, who requested Bro.
Jos. Chuck of the Stcamfittcrs to take
the chair in the absence of the president
and vice-president.
Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
A communication from the Electrical
Workers, No. 212, announcing that J.
A. Cullen, Guy Hccker, I. H. Smith and
J. Seibert had been duly elected as dele
gates to the Council.
A communication from the Cement
Finishers No. 524 stating that H.
Scboonover had been duly appointed
member of the Building'Trades Council.
ir,
LABOR FINANCES
$125,000 TEMPLE
Federation Already Has Contribu
tions of $30,000 For Building
Structure To Do Opened, Debt
Free, lly January 1, Leaders
Hope.
Cleveland, O. Organized labor the
past week launched a campaign to raise
$125,000 to build its new labor temple.
Unions affiliated with the Cleveland
Federation of Labor have subscribed
or pledged $30,000, and Secretary
Charles Smith has received one dona
tion of $5,000.
Ground for the new Labor Temple
has been broken on E. IStli street, south
of Prospect avenue S. E. It is hoped
to lay the cornerstone on Labor Day
and to have the lyceum opened by Janu
ary 1, 1017.
The new labor headquarters will be
a four-story building, 100 by 130 feet.
It is being "built of reinforced concrete
with a terra, cotta front. It is being
constructed with a view to the ultimate
addition of four additional stories.
On the main tloor there will be three
large stores. The building will have
nine halls, the largest with a seating
accommodation of 1,400. Offices will be
provided by the executive officers and
for various affiliated organizations.
Bowling alleys, shower baths and a
large tool storeroom are among the
features planned in addition to reading
rooms and card rooms of ample size.
A canvass of the affiliated unions in
dicates that fullv 50 per cent of the total
capital required will be subscribed by
organized labor.
The campaign launched is with the
object of obtaining sufficient donations
to enable the Federation of Labor to
open the building in the new year en
tirely debt free.
A big chart and thermometer, indicat
ing the progress, of the campaign, have
been placed at the head of the stairs at
labor headquarters, 310 Prospect ave
nue S. E. - Red, white and blue electric
lights form a border to the statistical
reminders of the movement.
VAST KAILKOAD FAKXIXGS.
San Francisco. Reports on earnings
of the Southern Pacific railroad indicate
that the present year will break all rec
ords. The June receipts are estimated
at $1.'1,()00,000. and for the fiscal year,
$152,000,000. Last year's operating reve
nues were $129,000,000.
These vast earnings will make it pos
sible for the Southern Pacific to carry on
a more vigorous advertising campaign
against the eight-hour demand of its
freight-train service employes.
Mass pf Routine Business
of Officers Next Thursday
Meeting of the Month.
Mr. Scboonover being present he was
duly obligated.
Business Agent Hock reported that
Mr. Ragland, superintendent for the
Westlake Construction Company would
use union hod carriers on the work as
soon as he started the brick structure.
Superintendent McKay, in charge of
the erection of the new power plant
for the Union Gas and Electric Com
pany, stated that he would take up the
matter of luring union engineers with
the Foundation Company of New York.
All crafts reported business good.
There being no further business be-
IiVJl V. lilt. 111 V.V. 111 !(-, IIIW .UUI1WI1 UUJUU4 1 41-VI
to meet next Thursday night.
INCREASE IN WAGES SOUGHT
By Motion-Picture Operators, But
Concessions Are Made To
Employers.
Moving Picture and Projecting Ma
chine Operators' Local Union No. 105
and exhibitors of Cincinnati and vicin
ity, including ovcr-the-river cities, are
conferring on a proposed new working
agreement. The two-year contract the
men now are working under expires Au
gust 1.
In the proposed new agreement, the
operators are requesting a 10 to. 12 per
cent increase in wages. The life of the
proposed new contract is left open for
arbitration.
In the proposal the union has granted
to daily matinee and night houses an
extra half-hour that is, operators em
ployed in those houses who now work
a seven-hour run would work seven and
one-half hours under the proposed
agreement.
Another concession of the union is in
the matter of overtime. Under the pres
ent contract operators are paid for all
overtime 75 cents an hour or a fraction
thereof. They now propose to charge
25 cents a reef for overtime. These con
cessions, it is said, have been made at
the request of the exhibitors.
The proposed agreements were pre
sented July 1 to managers of moving
picture houses employing members of
the union. A conference recently was
held between the Exhibitors' League of
the Chamber of Commerce and the
union.
Edward Kairsch, Business Agent for
the union, said negotiations between the
union and exhibitors had been on the
most friendly terms, and he predicted a
settlement satisfactory to both sides
would be reached without controversy.
He said already, twenty-four houses had
signed the proposed agreements, to take
effect August 1.
PUDDLFUS GET RAISE.
Members of Mills' Association De
cide On Wage Boost.
1
Youngstown, O. Examination of the
sales sheets of the Republic Iron and
Steel Company and the members of the
Western Bar Iron Association here, the
afternoon of July 11, shows that pud
dlcrs employed in the mills governed by
the .Amalgamated Association of Iron,
Sheet and Tin Plate Workers are en
titled to a wage scale of $S.40 per ton.
The rate has been $7.42J4 per ton dur
ing the past two months. Several thou
sand workmen in Ohio, West Virginia
and Illinois are affected by the increase.
