4
TO DEFEAT POLITICAL ROMANISM nSxv,?
arc not, then the politicians, always politic, will steal our strength and leave us nothing but
discouragement. Read the article, ' Beware False Prophets," on this page, and decide the
question it ditcussei in )ou"r own mind before approached by tome politician w ith an axe to grind. Shall we o
ahead, as in the pad. with steady puna that mean certain victory in reasonable time; or ahall thia magnificent
movement be disrupted, and in purpose defeated, by the creation of another party? Your judgment (and may it
be your bett judgment) must pas upon and answer that question.
This It Numbtr 273
NACE
imt IS, Xtl
1 PTrt. T TxJL
iHEMfB
633
i
ATTACK INDEPENDENT VOTERS' LEAGUE
Ptst-Cisnatca Attempts ts Discredit fatriotic Order Wbict is Logical
Ortgrvwtfc f Rome's War oa Popular CoTerttrneBt leagne Rec
ognizes Thai Political Romanists is Uvuif Up to Indictments
of A. P. 1L What Voters' Organiratioaj Stands For
TW S. Ih Tml Miiirt' ,4
mm riiwW kkr m-m Unit
oT TBI Sortuft. 4 Umntmu mt
Mlr HA. trmmt ,i.H W Aa-
Mjm. mi it w fnini r-
, mi Cili I m mi' w M !
)MHt '
tHM 11. Illl. M MtfMka, .
On June 26th, and ?th, the St.
Louii Toct Dispatch, tried to spring
sensation on the unsuspecting
public. The fact that the attempt
S roved a dismal failure, was not
ue to any want of teal on the part
of the reporter or la k of skill iq re
tamping and presenting the already
OTcrworked taetirs of political Ro
manism in it determined war on
11 who dare to maintain and de
fend the fundamental principle
and provisiona of our liberal demoe
racy from the organized and ag
gressive attempt of the Knighta of
Columbus and other "prop of the
hierarchy" to substitute the papal
system of rule for the distinguish
ing glories of our free republic.
The failure of the ambitious ef
fort of the wonld-le sleuth wan large
ly due to the fact that he undertook
an impo.Hsible feat. The palpable
absurdity of attempting to make
intelligent readers believe that a
public meeting where members had
been cent cards of invitation urg
ing them to bring friend, where
large groups of people were ad
mitted on a single card, where, in
deed, individual without tickets of
admission found no difficulty in se
curing admittance, and where at
lead one late comer had to wake up
the sleeping doorkeeper, to hand
him hia ticket at he passed into the
hall, necessarily lacked the elements
essential to convincingly impress
the public with the conviction that
the meeting was a dark, deep, mys
terious gathering of plotters, or
that the ambitious reporter was a
second Sherlock Holmes, who, lisp
pily, for the safety of the state had
appeared upon the scene in time to
expose in all its naked enormity the
nefarious designs of these modern
sons of liberty, who to the Roman
Catholic hierarchy arc as obnoxious
as were their predecessors whom
King George III sought to sup
press 'ere the birth of modern de
mocracy, startled and terrified,
like, monarchies and hierarchies of
the Old World.
In the second place, as we shall
presently show, the America of
1916, is not the America of 1890,
for Rome has in' recent yeara lived
up to the A. P. A. indictment of
earlier davs in auch a way as to
startle out of their lethargy, millions
of lovera of democracy, making of
them, militant defenders of the
Jrinciples and provisions of our
ree institution which Rome is as
sailing. Catholica On Post-Dispatch
Before noticing the Post-Dispatch
article which is exactly what
we would expect to find in the
Westtru Watchman, we wish to no
tice two facts iu this connection
V,that arc interesting and illuminat-
, liig i-or more luau a score oi
years, the boycotting tactics and
jhe club of the "Roman Catholic
rote" have been companioned by
systematic and many-tided attempt
to establish a censorship of the
secular press over politico-religious
discussions that tended to throw
light on Rome's political activity as
seen in her warfare on our public
non-sectarian schools, our free
press, freedom of speech and as
sembly, and the principle of com
plete separation of church and
state.
During recent years, so flViivc
has been thia iniquitous and utter
ly un-American subversive effort of
the hierarchy through its politico
religious props, that the columns of
.practically all the great dailies are
closed to free and healthy discus
sions of these most live questions,
.that o largely differentiate the
democratic svstem of government.
rora that of the papal sovereign,
and indeed, from all other mon
archal forms of government.
. So successful have been the per
sistent and determined efforts of
the American Federation of Cath
olic Societies, in getting editors
and publishers to feed like pigeons
out of the hand of politico-ecclesiastical
" Rome, that in recent years
the Federation has been bold and
almost brazen in its boasts." Thus,
I for example, at the annual meet-
ing of the American Federation of
Catholic Sn irtiw, which convened
in Milwaukee, Wis., August l'th,
1 191.1 the secretary. Anthony Mat re.
gleefully boasted of the uve of
the Federation in inducing eighteen
adveriiscr to withdraw their t
ronage from the pagea of a certain
magazine obnoxious to Rome, and
in thia report he further showed,
how under the power of the Ro
man Catholic -enrhip, the fio
dnru of the editor of a great dnly
like the Post-Dispatch, was de
stroyed. In his report to the Fed
eration, as given in the daily pros,
Mr. Mat re said:
Tba ft. Louia Tot Dupatrk pub
Imhed aa editorial which wm emiai.lsrH
ohnoiioua. WK 8AW THK PUBLISH
KR, aot Ike editor, ao1 a rrtrartioa wai
quickly published.
The Origin of L V. L.
The second related fact we wish
to revert to, has to do with the
origin of the Indccndent Voters'
league, and though we have hud
occasion to refer to thin before, it
is so illuminating in further dis
closing the republic destroying tac
tics of Rome, and it has such inti
mate Waring on the buhject in hand,
that we recur to it.
The Roman Catholic solid vote
club had long been very effectively
wielded in elections. The secular
press was humiliatingly subservient
to Rome, but as yet, the an h enemy
of our federal constitution's most
vital guarantees had failed to be
able to censor, or at least com
pletely censor the platform. Gen
uine freedom of speech and press
means the preservation of demo
cratic government and the safe
guarding of popular rights, but
freedom of speech anil pre have
always been the black beattg of
every despotism, whether that of
czar, emperor, king or pope, and
against this freedom, the foes of de
mocracy are ever actively at work.
One day the news reached St.
Louis that one of the greatest living
American military heroes, who is
also one of our mot illustrious pub
licists, (ioneral Nelson A. Miles,
was to speak in St. Louis, lie was
to plead for active loyalty to the
fundamental ideals of the founders
of this republic and urge the citi
zens to jealously guard our civil
and religious liberty. Usually when
a lormcr priest, or when a Christian
minister, or other speaker criticizes
Rome, he instantly becomes the
target for all manner of abusive
epithets and vile insinuations. But
here was a man too well known by
the people to become the victim of
Woman (.atholic vituperation and
calumnv. Hi distinguished ser
vices lifted him to a noble eminence.
He was the head of the (Juardians
of Liberty, a mighty association of
patriotic Americans, numbering al
most a million members who were
and are, militant non-sectarian and
non-partisan advocates of fumla
mental democracy. . Now because
General Miles was at the head of
this patriotic order, because he
stood for principles, which it is
safe to say every president from
Washington to Garfield would have
gladly subscribed to, he was high
ly obnoxious to political Romnnism,
hence the encmv to our federal con
stitution got busy. The theatre
management was induced to cancel
its contract, then so successful were
the terrorist intimidation tactics
employed in other directions, that
when the great general reached St.
Louis, to speak to the thousands
who wished to hear hia message, it
was, found that the hand of Rome
had figuratively sjteaking, pad
locked every hail and church door
in the popular section of the city.
Here was, indeed, a startling spec
tacle for patriotic Americana to be
hold. Here was one of the most
distinguished statesmen and warriors
of our day and land, denied a ros
trum In St. .Louis, from which to
plead for the maintenance of the
fundamental principles and pro
visions of our great liberal democ
racy. Mere was so bold and appal
ling an illustration of the papal
subject's hatred of our constitution,
that it forced thousands of St
Louisans to recognize the deadly
peril of this Old World mouarchial
power, whose " sinister shadow was
already falling over state and school.
Here it was seen that not only the
club of the: Catholic vote, the boy
cott, an I itnnrhip of prc, but
a!o the Tnorhip of the platform
were lads in N. Louia. Purely if
American ideal and principle
were to I saved, an organization
must be formed to comUt the nit
deadly despotism that has threat-
cued to strangle free intrution.
since the birth of modern democ
racy. .Voir out of thU condition,
Iht I nde prudent Voters' Leajut rat
born.
Eecrat Organizations and Progress
In many of the most crucial mo
ments in the history of nation and
t ivili-ation, the cause of spiritual
progioa. human liberty and free
institution have !een won or main
tained by the bjjding together of
men and women of vision and con
viction, who placed the cause above
all thought of self. '
When the despotism of pagan
Rome was shamed by the exalted
morality of primitive Christianity,
and the contagion of righteousness
terrified the Crsar. persecutions
were carried on almost aa terrible
as those which at a later date were
sanctioned hr the" pope of Rome
Then the Christians banded them
selves together and met by stealth
in caves and fastnesses, that the
holy cause of the Nazarene might
not suffer extinction, but theo very
secret meeting were seized upon by
the forces of corruption and de
Hitiaiii as evidence of iniquity. It
was claimed that the Christian
were meeting to plot against the
government, or to practice the
nameless immoralities that had long
since sapped the moral virility of
the pagan world. Many were mislead
by this cry. and even so great, and
on the whole, so noble an emper
or as Marcus Aurclius, entertained
the monstrous charges, yet it was
this banding together in united
work, this holy consecration which
ignored all the inuendocs and
calumny of evil-doer that rendered
USE YOUR BRAIMS-AND
BEWARE FALSE PROPHETS
In the small days of next November thia
movement agsinst political Romanism will
either achieve a glorious victory or go down
to ignominious defeat. Which ahall it be?
The five million earnest men and women, who
read these lines, will decide.
You, kind reader, axe one of them. The
time has come to use your God-given intelli
gence in deciding a question of tactics. Will
you move straight ahead, aa you have in the
past, to defeat papist and pro-papist candi
dates for public office, or will you allow your
selves to be used by professional politicians
for their own selfish purposes?
We, who watch the rise and progress of
American sentiment from such centers aa The
Menace plant and the offices of the Free Press
Defense League, have unbounded faith in the
earnest men and women who have created
these mighty forces for national defense. But,
forget not that when the sons of God came to
present themselves before Jehovah, Satan
also came among them.
Satan, in human form, is never absent
from such a political campagn as that upon
which we are entering. He is there to serve
himself without consideration for such popu
lar movements as this which you have built
with tireless labors and endless sacrifices. The
only, safety lies in sticking to the text and
adhering to the tactics that favors no in
dividual but makes for the common cause.
What do we mean? Simply this : that, as
usual, there will be politicians eager in their
desire to ride this movement into office. They
will propose all kinds of impossible schemes
of which they are to get the benefit but
which would be suicidal to this cause. First
of these is the proposition to have a new
party and to put forth a separate set of can
didates for president and vice-president.
The least consideration will convince sin
cere patroits that such a course would be
fatal. It is a wise movement that knows its
own strength, and refuses to overtax that
strength by attempting the impossible. This
movement is not strong enough at this time
to carry a national election; and it 's far
better to realize and 'acknowledge that fact
now than to admit it after months of wasted
effort. There are other things of greater
moment thtt we can do, and wisdom urges
that these practicable things should be done.
We can, each and every one of us, rote
against every papist and pro-papist candi
date ; and, by so doing, but very few of them
will be elected. By so doing we win so in
spire every party with the fear of righteous-
, cess that they will heed the warning and
eliminate pope-servers from their ticket! in
the future. The defeat of forty-eight eon-
' gressmen of questionable allegiance two years
pn,ble the growtl, and pral of
clmstiauity under thotc hard ur
cnmstaDce.
When King George and hia aa
oriatc determined to opprrta the
American colonies, and to crush and
destroy the who Krame a menace
to the crown, tho biaet, nohlet
and most mantr. of our father
promptly formed themsclve into
K-crrt bands such a S.n of Liber
ty; Committees of Correspondence,
and Committee f PuWie Safety,
who laid broad and dvp, the foun
dation of modern democracy, Re
spite the epithets cf abuse and the
peril endured at the handa of the
enemies of freedom. The epithet
and tactics of political Romanism
and her pigeona of the pre," to
day, are so startlinly similar to
those of the Torie and upholders
of the despotism of the English
throne in the earlier day, that we
are strongly reminds or the fact
that privilege and despotism, though
constantly appearing under chang
ing forms, are in ul, ever the
same ever the foe of freedom tod
the full-orbed rights of man.
Eaaa'a Hand Bat Jacob 'a -Vole
Returning to the Post-Dipatch
n are' ne-t, we find a determined
et.'ort to make it apcar that t'ie
shaker was attacking the religion,
a such, of Roman Catholics, Tin
is the favorite method of the apolo
gists of the ! ;rarehy, who know
full well that the patriotic Ameri
cans, whether belonging to the
Guardian of Liberty, the Inde
pendent Voters' Li-ague, or other
societies for the preservation of
free institutions, war on no man's
religion until that religion wars
upon the organic law of the land,
and the provisions for bulwarking
free institutions, which distinguish
lilscral democracy from the papal
system, and indeed, all other forms
of mouarchiu! rule.
The reporter quoted from Mr. C.
ago was the greatest blow ever struck for the
defense of America at the ballot box. It can
be duplicated this year on a far greater scale.
But it can't be done by means of a new
Jiarty and another set of candidates. The
dea may be attracti' a to some who are per
fectly sincere in entertaining it; indeed, not
a few of those who incline to such a step are
noble and sincere men whose integrity we
would not for a moment question, but reason
and calm judgment should know better on
careful consideration. Let us learn from the
enemy. Do you suppose that the crafty
Jesuits, who manipulate Borne 'a politics,
would so much aa think of organizing a Bo
man Catholic clerical party?
- They are too wise to attempt such folly;
and it is to be hoped that we are also too
discreet to be caught in such a trap. Let us
hold fast to the tactics by which Borne, with
an insignificant voting strength, nearly cap
tured this country while the gaping multi
tudes imagined that the papacy was not In
politics.
It required no separate party to win those
splendid victories recently achieved in the
Oregon cities of Portland and Salem, in
Eensas City, and in the states of Florida and
JUabama. Had they been attempted by
means of an additional party, they would
have had the organized strength of the other
-parties to fight an obstacle that could not
have been overcome.
Had such a course been attempted, we
would have had the old-party press and all
the old-party politicians arrayed solidly
against us. As it stands today, the press and
the party managers are more or less inclined
to- seek our favor and to get into our good
graces as well as of the enemy.
We have the whole field to operate in so
long as we refrain from withdrawing and
setting up a separate organization. We have
lll the elements opposed to the papal system
; united. Why drive them apart by such an
ill-considered move?
1 Let us hold to the consistent course of
Meansing all the parties from political trad
'ing with popery. That course has the value
,f simplicity and the virtue of straight
forwardness. It is a winner. We know that the
men who made The Menace, and the women
.who made those men courageous, have not
done so to boost politicians. They have done
this great and noble work to rid this country
' .of popery and defend our free Institutions.
Let ns at this critical and momentous time
'march to the polls in solid phalanx to defeat
political Bomanism undivided by disrution
iita but united in the original and righteous
purpose of preserving America free from the
blight of popery.
W. p.ibb. who was the speaker of
tlie evening, the following word
Dot for approval, however, but to in
dicate the evil character of the
meeting.
Tk4 kali tkmrrh mmS Jmrr.
mrmm 0ttrrr atr I u aa frrl ikmt r mn
) iicwif Va HrWa etftrriuatp
lu rommlry. ar mkomU Imam
J mtrrtcmmjtm for Jrv.
W ara (oie( iaio Mr-a to Cf ht the
VIriirans. U ar gomf nrrt
Mrnflral Mooe la XIfik ea which lk
rovtg maabood of thw fouatry, of whl-h
thrrr ia uomm ltrr, it to be vrrilW-fel.
What frf Ivrauas thia eouatry ha
hrea tii'tea hw tbo t'athnlie powrra that
(, that it aiuat go lata Meiiro aal whip
tho hlsif-an to that tho Cothnl
rhurrh Bay retaia Ita (wr titer. That
ia tho oeljr reaaoa va art foinf to 0gfct
tho Msik-aea.
Bibb re4 aa .vlitnrial h ha 4
heea puMish) ia tho Srw Tork Corao-
iw Hc'(4 hi-a aai.t, ia part, "A lath
olis'a itutT to the rhurrh ahouM be
I taet befora hia duly to aarthinf tuw."
The meeting wa treated at
though it wa a gathering of ene
mies of the republic, instead of an
assembly of high minded men and
women whose master aim ia merely
to preserve the free democracy of
Thomaa Jefferson and the Revolu
tionary father. It ia interesting
a revealing the hidden hand of
Rome, to note that all Die Jesuitical
ear marks that characterize the sort
of articles which are constantly
apcaring in tho Roman Catholic
wwkly jmjxTs, aro here in evidence.
Thus, for example, there is a la
Uired effort, first to make it appear
that persons attending thi meet
ing in the supposedly free city of a
free state had committed an offense,
and that mcmhera of the Independ
ent Voters' league, in informing
the electorate a to the political
ideals or loyalty of candidate to
fundamental democratic principles,
were guilty of an offense
against free institutions, though as
a matter of fact every individual
loval to free institutions, must rv
(Continued oa Ffcgs I, Oilnmo t)
PAPAL POWER INJIATIOHAL CAPITAL
Rome la bdai Pottxt-Riid oa Trot Funds Bmt Stand of Coo
retsnua StrphefltProfcssor Sctuarf t Peruldoot Activity for
Rome Tho Same Profeswf Scbarf That Is How llrrjnf. CaJh
cCc Priests ia Ohio to Work for Uectioa of ex-Senator Did
p ciLacfr a KATIOKS.
Vw f iiM Tm Fno Vmtmmmt law.
I Hum kaoOiu. M B strait N. W.
W aakiaaioa, U. C
The following extract, exeept the
headings, taken from the Twenty
third Annual .Report of the Indian
Rights AsMH-tation. for year ending
December 13, 1915. pagea 4-11,
show conclusively how Rome plays
American politics for I ig money.
The controversy over the division
of Indian Trist fund for the sup
port of aecUiian schools, which be
gan juct as our twenty-second an
nual report was issued, proved to be
a matur of great national moment.
It will be mailed that under direc
tion of the president, the Indian of
fice made contracts with the repre
sentatives of two religious denomi
nations, by which 9.1j pupils were
to be maintained at nine Indian
schools for the year ending June
30, 1905. The sum of 102,tt0
was to be taken from the tribal trust
fund accounts to defray thia ex-pen-,
of which the ROMAN
CATHOLICS WERE TO RE
CEIVE $P8.4fi0 and the Lutheran
$ 1.320. This order of the president
was bued on hia executive author
ity, and not as the result of any ac
tion of the Indian tribes concerned.
As soon as it became known, how
ever, hundreds, of the Indians whose
funds were thus to be used, with
out their knowledge or consent,
upon the unofficial cons-nt of a
small minority (their permission
being required by the regulations of
the Indian oft'u-c, bmed on the
United States statutes), sent vigor
ous protests to the association, urg
ing that steps be taken to protect
their rights in the premises.
A pamphlet was issued ("In
dian Trust Funds for Sectarian
Schools") reciting the facta, and
fhn Knhiio't Whs tulfpn nn viiDimni.
- -r -rs i
ly by the press of the country; let-J
ters poured ujxm members of con
gress from their constituents in all
parts of the United States protest
ing against the policy of anything
even suggesting an alliance of
church and state and urging that
legislation be enacted to prevent a
further misuse of these trust funds.
Stephens Opposes Appropriations
Hon. John H. Stephens, of Tex
as, a member of the Hon so Com
mittee on Indian A(Tair en
deavored, without success, to have
a clause inserted in the appropria
tion bill to prohibit the use of these
fund for tho support of sectarian
schools. While tho bill was being
considered t by tho house, Mr.
Stephens otlercd tho following
amendment:
"That no portion of Indian fnist
funds nor the interest thereon idiall
be expended for contract schools
without the consent, in writing of
the Indians entitled to the same,
being first obtained."
Thia clause was defeated by Hon.
James S. Sherman of New York,
who objected to it on a point of or
der, and hia objection was snstained.
Borne Before Senate Committee
Failing to accomplish anything in
the house, the opponents of this
policy directed their efforts to the
senate with redoubled energy. In
view of the vigorous protests re
ceived from the official representa
tives of nearly all the religious de
nominations conducting missionary
work among the Indians, and mauy
other people of prominence, there
was a hearing before the sub-com
mittee of the Senate Committee on
Indian Affairs, January 31, 1905,
when the matter was fully presented
on behalf of tho protesting Indians.
In addition, some startling testi
mony was given showing the influ
ence that had been used to secure
a favorable consideration for the
wishes of the denomination chiefly
interested in obtaining these con
tracts. In cl King his statement to
the committee, our Washington
agent, Mr. Brosius, said:
Borne Threatens Congressmen
"A statement has been made to
ma bv an honorable senator which
will to amplified before the com
mittee on Indian Affairs, if re
quested, to the effect that A MR.
SCHARF, A REPRESENTA
TIVE CATHOLIC, SUBMITTED
A TABLE OF TWENTY CLOSE
CONGRESSIONAL" DISTRICTS
WITn THE ALLEGED CATH
OLIC VOTE IN EACH, AND A
WRITTEN PB0P0SAL TO DE-
LIVER THE NECESSARY
VOTES TO CARRY THOSE
DISTRICTS THAT MIGHT BE
SKI ECTED BY THE REPUB
LICAN'S, IF THE APPROPRIA
TION'S FOR CATHOLIC IN
DIAN SCHOOLS TO THE
AMOUNT OF f.MO.OOO WERE
CONTINUED FOR TWO YEARS
LONGER. Even threats were
made by this Mr. Scharf that the
defeat of certain congressmen
would he brought about unlfM op
position to sectarian appropriations
was withdrawn.
"I will state further that a mem
ber of the House of Representatives,
who was opposing legislation which
provided for support of Indian con
tract schools from government
funds, was approached by the same
Mr. Scharf, and threatened that if
he did not Undraw hia opposition
to the legislation, that he. (Mr.
Sharf) would see to it that the
Catholic church organization would
defeat him at the next election. I
am authorized to make thia state
ment to this committee, and the
member referred to is Hon. John
H. Stephens, of Texas."
Hon. A. J. Hard', of California,
thereupon said that ho was the sen
ator to whom Prof. Scharf made
the statement, and he added :
"I believe, Mr. Chairman, and
gentlemen of the committee, that
it is a very dangerous thing to let
such a matter go by unnoticed, end
I therefore feel that it is my duty
to make thia statement before thia
executive session of the committee.
I made a memorandum soon after
wards, so that I refer to that now;
I am not trusting my memory at
all with reference to it. I have
tabulated statements here showing
some twentv district in the United
States, arid the names of the mem
bers representing biich districts,
the tot al Catholic population in
each district, and the total Catholio
vote.
"MR. SCHARF CALLED Otf
ME AND STATED THAT HE
WAS AUT1IOKIZKD BY HIS
CHURCH AUTHORITIES TO
OFFER A PROPOSITION TO
THE REPUBLICAN LEADERS
IN CONGRESS TO THIS EF
FECT: That he would guarantee
these twenty weak congressional dis
tricts to co Renublican the next
election provided congress gave to
the Koman (. atholic schools an ap
propriation for two years, each of
$200,000. These statements which
I am referring to were handed to
me by Mr. E. L. Sel.irf at the
Hotel Normandie on um evening of
March 20, 1902. But let me refer
to a written memorandum referring
to the matter which I made on the
following dav. Mr. Scharf at that
time delivered to me a letter from
Bishop Montgomery dated March 5,
1902, relating to appropriations for
the Catholic Indian schools. The
first tabulated statement was ex
hibited to me several weeks before
by Mr. Scharf, he stating at that
time that for a year or more he had
been employed to go 'through the
country and get together the statis
tics therein shown; that he was au
thorized to propose to the Repub
licans in congress that if the appro
priation for the Catholic Indian'
schools should be continue.! -for two
years, the church would guarantee
that during that period the con
gressional districts named would be
carried by the Republicans.
"He assured me over and over
again that the church was able to
secure such results. In his inter
view on the evening of March 20
he again reiterated the statement
that the Roman Catholics could al
ways command a suiVient number
of Catholio votes to carry any
measure or elect any man when
they were informed by the authori
ties of the church that such a re
sult would be for the benefit of the
church. He further stated that ar
rangement has already been ar
rived at by which the re-election of
the member of congress from one
of the districts in California would
be assured, and that he had in pur
suance of his promises to this gen
tleman, written to the Roman
Cath' lie clergymen in variona coun
ties comprising that district
"Theee papers were delivered to
me by Mr. Scharf at my request
for the purpose, as I explained at
(Coatatwad m Fafa'S, Columm t)
