c
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUiME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY. JULY 15, 191G
NUMBER 41
,?
w
lm
! St.
!V
CONG SIN
STAY AT HIS POST OF DUTY
Does Not Expect to be at Home to
Take Part in the Coming Dem-
cratic Primary
He Feels That While Such Serious
Condition Faces Country His Place
is in Washington
TO THE DEMOCRATS OF THE FOURTH DISTRICT:
I had hoped and still hope to return to the Fourth dis
trict before the August primary and meet the Democracy of
Andrew, Atchison, Buchanan, Holt, Nodaway and Platte coun
ties, but I would be unfaithful to the trust that you have re
posed in me to now desert the post to which through your gen
erous confidence you have assigned me, and return to your
counties to enter in a campaign for the renomination which I
desire at your hands. I have always trusted the Democrats
of the great Platte Purchase, and they in turn have trusted
me, and have further honored me by successive nominations
and elections, for which I thank them from the bottom of a
grateful heart. I never as yet, as you well know, deserted the
post of duty to which you have delegated me, to return home
to look after my chances for re-election, and as long as you
keep me here I never will. Especially will I not return home
at this most critical time in the history of the nation when the
whole world is on fire and no man can tell an hour in advance
what may add to the present horrors. My post is here where
you sent me.
It is a laudable ambition on the part of any man to desire
to serve his country in congress
patriotic motives, and therefore
HON. CHARLES
make of those who have entered
all it is not a question of what
"' ' . ,..-,,
tion of what the people of the district believe will be best for
them and the country at large. In the present crisis, the great
est in our history, I do not hesitate to say that if ever there was
a time when men of experience were needed in the councils
of the'nation it is now. The good people of the Fourth district
have kept me here long enough
with the duties of the position and m touch with the great ques
tions now confronting the nation, and I cannot help but feel
that I am better able to serve you now than I ever was before,
and to better advantage than any new man.
No matter what the result,
verdict rendered at the primary
you think I should continue to
promise to give you in the future
fit of all my time and whatever ability I possess. If you feel
that under the trying and peculiar conditions that I can serve
the district better than any new
support.
I want to again assure you,
generous support m the past and trusting that I may have the
same in the future, I beg to remain,
Very Bincerely,
CHARLES F. BOOHER.
Washington. D. C, July 14, 191G.
Wni. B. Pistole, formerly a lawyer
here, but residing and practicing law
In Artesla, N, M., came to St. Joseph
for a visit, and before he was ready'
to leave had service for a civil suit
performed on him by a deputy sheriff.
Mr. Pistole sold A. J. August a parcel
of land four years ago, and A. J.
claims that be spent 7G0 clearing the
title, and now he Is suing Mr. Pistole
for that amount.
BOOHER
L
if prompted in that desire by
I have no sort of criticism to
F. BOOHER
the race against me ; but after
they or I want, but it is a ques
until I have become familiar
I shall be content with your
August 1. If in your wisdom
serve you for another term, I
as I have in the past the bene
man, I will appreciate your
of my deep gratitude for your
MARTIN VISITS THE VOTERS
Judge L. A. Martin of Chlllicothe
was a St. Joseph visitor Wednesday,
He Is a candidate against James A.
Reed for the United States senate.
Willie Judge Martin Is a real nice
gentleman and a most pleasurable
person to meet, he could not even
make a dent in Senator Reed's wall
here.
W
HENRY LOOKS IT
The Platte Countian Could be Taken
for a Real Ollle Jamet by
the Uninitiated
A story has just leaked out from
the St. Louis convention. Henry Dil
lingham of Platte City was there In
all his glory. He had Just emerged
from the somewhat heated convention
hall and was making for a soda water
cafe. He stepped Into the street when
he was surrounded by a lot of suffra
gets with white dresses and big yel
low sashes.
"That's him! shouted several suffra-
gets. "That's Senator Ollle James,
the convention chairman,"
These sufTragets were lined up in
two long rows on the streets.
"Send him along," shouted the suffs,
and before Henry could escape they
had him going down the line. "Vote
for us, senator," shouted the ladles.
"Vote for woman suffrage."
"Oh, the dear man,' they cried, as
they tapped him on the shoulder with
their umbrellas and moved him down
the line to the others.
Henry tried totell them they were
mistaken and that he was only "Little
Henry Dillingham from Platte coun
ty," but this only caused the women
to laugh, as they hustled him along
the line and shouted, "Ob, you can't
fool us, senator; we have seen your
picture in the papers. Pass him along,
girls. Now do be a good man and do
what you can for us suffragets," etc.
And so the merry war continued
down the streets until Henry saw he
was nearlng the wharf. Then he made
a break for life and liberty when he
ran into a millinery establishment and
dodged his tormentors by hiding be
hind some pattern dummies that dis
played the latest styles In women's
dresses.
Henry took a side street to his hotel
and told the boys of his stirring expe
rience, saying, "Well, the women
saved me after all, but they didn't
talk any. Say, Guy, who is this fel
low, Ollle James, anyhow?" Platte
County Landmark.
A GOOD MEETING
Con Roach Was Greeted with an' Ap
preciative Audience at the Ly
ceum Thursday Night
Secretary of State Con Roach, who
is now one of the leading candidates
for governor of Missouri, cannot but
feel proud over the reception which
he received at the Lyceum Thursday
night, when he made his Arst public
appearance In St. Joseph. The big
theater was comfortably filled and all
who were present felt that they were
well repaid for the time spent.
Our own L. C. Gabbert presided at
the meeting, and in his introduction
of Mr. Roach paid him a tribute Just
as he alone can do. Mr. Roach, al
though fatigued from a three-day
whirlwind campaign in the upper ciuues jour mind) as coolly as you do
counties, made a speech which was of) the nous?- The furniture of your
the right sort and which made him i mlnd should be of light openwork ma
many friends. In it he disclosed the terlal. Put away any feverish or
fact that Missouri needs a business ( heavily upholstered thoughts until
man for governor, and showed where tall. Thoughts that keep your mental
his administration of the office of m?c- i temperature at about 60 degrees
retary of state had been a success Fahrenheit are heavy enough for sum
and he proved it. The Roach meet- me" war. Thus housed, thus dieted,
Ing In all respects was a triumph for I thus mentally furnished and with a
Missouri's best secretary of state.
ARTHUR FREUDENBERG HOME
Arthur Freudenberg, nephew of
S. H. Oppenheimer, reached St. Jo
seph, accompanied by his wife, on
Thursday morning. Mr. Freudenberg
Is a St. Jpseph boy who three years
ago went to Mexico with his parents,
both of whom have since died. After
their death he went to Germany,
where he married. His story of con
ditions In Germany is far different
from those which are sent in press
dispatches, and is most interesting,
Another of Teddy's Ads
It is quite probable that the report
circulated In the newspapers that Col.
Roosevelt was raising a regiment of
soldiers to go down and mop the earth
with the Mexicans was a, false alarm,
lust another one cf Teddy's advertis
ing stunts. As a colonel of a regiment
of soldiers it might happen that some
thing more than wind-Jamming would
be necessary. In the light of the re
cent brave stand Teddy didn't make
at Chicago It is hardly belleveable
'hat he could muster another party
vllllng to go snipe hunting. Bethany
Democrat.
Isn't This Simply Awfull
Unpreparedness note: The Massa
chusetts national guard were sent to
the Mexican border without forks and
rrve had to learn to eat beans with a
knife. -Kansas City Times.
HOW TO BE COOL
Now Don't Get Mad at the Headline,
'' But Read the Suggestions
Offered
J-'o.v don't get mad when you read
the hadllne, Just because it Is really
hof and you are hot In temper as well
asiln body, for It Is not the weather
that is hot so much as It is the way
you live that is hot. There are hot
livers and cool livers pretty much the
year around. If you know the art of
hot weather housekeeping you can
get along very comfortably. Do you
realizp, for instance, the difference It
makts when things Just look cool?
Tak the cloth off the dining table
and fee If It doesn't look cooler. Take
the roast off and put a green salad In
Its t'lace'and see If It doesn't look
cooltr yet. There is coolness In sum
nier furniture, too. Put away the
Heavy library table and substitute
something In light wicker and see how
the temperature of the room drops.
Upholstered chairs should go, too, and
light, hard surfaced ones be put In
their, place. Roll up the heavy rugs.
You can have straw or grass matting
If jou like, but a bare polished Jloor
Is the coolest. Window draperies and
all hangings should come down, and
even pictures that are heavily framed
should be removed. Everything sug
gestive of heaviness or stuffiness
should be banished. This Includes ail
manner of cushions and the cats that
usually may be found sleeping on
them. And if ou are so unfortunate
as to have anything like a plush piano
stool In the room, or a plush album,
fire them first of all.
If you do these things right you can
make the living room look as cool as
the lounging deck of a ship. Of
course, the room must be darkened
during the day. Keep the sun out.
Keep even the sun-heated air out.
You can do that by closing the win
dows and lowering the curtains, and
the awnings, too, if you have them.
Don't be afraid that you will make
the room hot by closing the windows
The cool air is Inside during the day,
As to eating, you probably know all
about what to eat to keep cool, but
don't do It. Dut when you have got
the house to looking cool you may be
ilcncouraged to try to kind of food that
will go with It. No meat and no
potatoes that send the steam up when
you take the cover off the dish. For
that matter, no summer dishes should
have covers. A cool looking glass
dish is the thing to serve cool looking
things to eat in. No heavy china.
Vnthlnr rtnnnnp Onno vnn irot tht'
.......r -fi-L' ..,. rf p.- "-
right kind of dishes there Is little
danger that you will put hot or heat
ing food in them. You will put green
stuff, vegetables and salads in them.
jThen, too, the table cloth being ban
i ished, you will not be likely to put
a steaming dish on the cool polished
board.
Furnish your body (and that in-
Palm Beach suit and a cheerful smile.
you will get through the summer very
successfully no matter what the ther
mometer bays.
FORD WOULDN'T RUN
The Automobile Manufacturer
Wilson Is the Man Instead
of Himself
Says
Detroit, July 10. Henry Ford, one
of the reception committee to greet
President Wilson today, awaited his
coming at the depot with great In
terest. In answer to a question he
said:
"I would not1 consent to run for
president against Woodrow Wilson.
He Is not afraid to talk back to the
Interests. And he has maintained
peace."
The president made a hasty trip to
the Ford plant this afternoon. On
the front of the building hung a great
banner, on which were the words Mr,
Ford composed for it:
"Our hats off to the president who
kept us out of war."
Roosevelt and His "Company"
A man Is known by the company he
keeps, Is an old adage. Roosevelt
called the old guard of the Repub'.l
can party "thieves," robbers," and the
like, yet he is at present very much
in harmony with those same men.
Make your own conclusions. Albany
Ledger.
JUST ft MASS OF
I
SHIBBOLETHS
That Is What the Republican
Platform Is Made Up of
and Filled With
IT DARES NOT
MAKE SPECIFICATIONS
For the Hum of Trade and Industry but he gives us no bill of particulars
and the Great Prosperity Which the as to what changes he would have
Entire Nation Now Enjoys Makes made.
the Discord of the Old Protection "'He speaks of a "national exlgen
Note So Palpable that It Ruins All cy," to which it Is his "paramount
of the Harmony that Could Be Pro- duty to respond." Heckling the presi-
duced by the G. O. P. Orchestra
The Republican party adopted a
platform at Chicago which presents
no vital issue to the American people.
It declares for Americanism of which
President Wilson Is the nation's fore
most protagonist. As the Philadelphia
Record points out, the tariff plank of
the Republicans is unlikely to receive
much favorable consideration at the
hands of a nation in the midst of the
greatest era of prosperity in Its his
tory. The following analysis of the
Republican platform reveals It in its
true light as a collection of shopworn
shibboleths and of generalities the
party dared not define in statements.
of specific acts which It would have
performed In place of the steps taken
by Mr. Wilson.
Hughes in Militant Role
The New York Times says:
"It Is impossible to Imagine Mr.
Hughes as president writing a mes
sage to congress demanding a great
war credit and instant naval and mili
tary preparation for a war with Ger
many because of the invasion of Bel
glum or the destruction of the Lusl
tania. The utmost stretch of fancy
does not enable us to see him asking so greatly to the excess of $78,737.
congresa to declare war on Mexico. 1810, in the receipts by the national
The picture would be wholly lmag-' treasury for the year 1916, over dis
Inary, false to the man and the occa- bursements, and that the 1916 collec
sion. tions In his district were nearly three-
"Yet the Republicans have abso-l quarter million dollars over 1915 col
lutely no other issue upon which with lections.
any degree of force and consistency! Collections in this district for the
they can demand of the people a with-1 J'ear 1915 (July 1, 1914, to June 30,
drawal of their confidence in Presi- 1916), were:
dent Wilson. That Issue they dare
not raise. They condemn, they de
nounces, they use freely the adjectives
of the langue, but their nouns and
verbs have no specific meaning."
Facts Are Inconvenient
In another editorial on "Their Tariff
Threnody," the New York Times
says:
"Whither has fled the fine, solemn,
hymnlike rapture of the old Republi
can platform patter about protection
as the primary and inexhaustible well
head of national prosperity? Forced
to new Issues this year, to American
ism and preparedness, they will find
no profit In them, for the Democrats
I are at least equally earnest for pre
paredness and Americanism. The
heaven-born, heaven-high tariff isl
purely Republican. Yet the Republl-
rnns nf Phlnnn marph hut ia aftaAli' I
before the Ark of Protection. There
is not much but the facts to contra
dict the Republican tariff doctrine."
Merely Stump Speeches
The Philadelphia Record says:
"The two platforms that come from
Chicago are not programs of party
action, or declarations of specific gov -
ernmental policies. They are stump
speeches, making the utmost of
'Americanism,' as though any one
party in this country were more patri -
otic than another.
"It is difficult to find any specific
statements or promises in either of,
them. Both are for preparedness.'
That Issue they plagiarized from Pres
ident Wilson and the Democratic con
gress. Against the voluble profes
sions of these two platforms are the!
actual achievements of the Demo- Chicago, July 10. Theodore Roose
cratlc party. The president's mes- velt was declared a "most dangerous
sage last December was the first for- menace to the peace and Inteih-itv of
mal declaration that the country must
oe put into a state of defense. Not "Byzantine legothete," was hurled
content with an address to congress, back Into his teeth in the course of a
the president stumped the Middle verbal blast produced by the National
West, making many speeches explain- Council of the Teutonic Sons of Anier
Ing to the people why he had urged lea, in executive session here today,
upon congress an increase of our The excoriation took the form of a
means of defense. Congress has re-' letter addressed to iLo colonel through
sponded to the call of the president G. F. Hummel, national president of
with measures largely increasing the the organization. The epistle act forth
army, the organized militia and the that at its meeting the national coun
navy. What Is there left for the Re-'ell had resolved that Colonel Ri-ose-
publlcans and the Progressives to
do?"
Norman Mack's Criticisms
"Norman E. Mack, national commit
teeman from New York, Issued a
statement attacking Justice Hughes
for his failure to be specific in the
statement which ho made accepting
the Republican nomination for the
presidency.
Mr. Mack's statement follows:
" 'The one great question which
rival presidential candidates must an
swer Is, "What would you do differ
ently? How would you have run
things better than President Wilson
has done7"
"'Mr. Hughes In his statement of
acceptance nowhere answers this
Question. His statement is a plea in
avoidance. Either directly or by im
plication he arraigns President Wilson
upon all the points In controversy.
dent does not constitute "national ex
igency," although it may be deemed a
partisan obligation.
"'Mr. Hughes says that ho "stands
for an Americanism that knows no
ulterior purpose, for a patriotism that
is single and complete.' But Mr.
Hughes, on the other hand, was the
pet candidate of those who put their
nativity before their Americanism.
"'Were these elements mistaken
when they denounced President Wil
son and approved the candidacy of
Justice Hughes? Which Is his sincere
attitude his silence when these ele
ments were booming him for the nom
ination or his avowal of complete
patriotism now that the nomination
has been achieved?"
A GREAT INCREASE
Collector Harber's District Shows
Over a Half Million More Col.
lected than Ever Before
Collector Ed M. Harber of the Sixth
district of Missouri, of which St. Jo
seph Is a part, takes considerable sat
isfaction in the fact that collections
in his district for the year 1916 (July
1, 1915, to June 30, 1916), contributed
i
Ordinary taxes, those de
rived from all kinds of
intoxicating liquors, doc
umentary stamps and
special taxes, of all
kinds $2,395,343.39
From this source for 1916 2,774,845.03
Increase from this source
for 1916 over 1915 379,501.64
Income tax from corpora
tions, 1914-15 366,797 59
Income tax from corpora
tions, 1916 551,734.96
Increase for 1916 over
1915 184,937.37
Income tax from individ
uals, 1914-15 275,963.29
Income tax from individ
uals, 1916 388,316.93
Increase for 1916 over
1915 112,353.64
Total from all sources for
1915 3.038,104.27
Total from all sources for
1916 3,714,896.92
Total Increase from all
sources for 1916 over
1915
"The prosperity of the
676,792.65
country in
am snrp "
(general is not greater, I
!sa,d Mr Harber ..tnaa ,n the Slxth
district of Missouri. The splendid
showing in general is most gratifying.
but especially so in this district."
l
GERMANS DENOUNCE
NOISY T.
R.
They Say That He Is a Menace to the
Peace of the United
States
the United States,' and the epithet.
vclt's reported outburrti asalnst what
he calls "professional German-Americanism"
are, If true, "concilvd of
hypocrisy and born of inslncf-rty and
fraud."
-rftX.
riaaSHfc-u
