THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL XX NO. 103.
DAK UK. VKHMOXT, SATURDAY, JULY 15. 1010.
riUCK. OXK CKXT.
V
2,000
ARE
GERMANS
PRISONERS
IN BIG GAIN
British Offensive Was Resumed To-day
and at One Point the Germans Were
Forced Back to Their Third Line Po
sitions on the Somme Front, Says
British War Office
FRENCH ARE HOLDING
THEIR POSITIONS
Northeast of Avocourt Redoubt and in
Apremont Forest the Germans Tried
to Advance and Were Hurled Back
By the French Curtain of Fire
London, July 15. The British offensive was resumed to-day, and
the war office announced that at one point the Germans were
forced back to their third-line positions. More than 2,000 prisoners
were taken.
London, July 15. After the briefest
preliminary bombardment which hae pre
ceded any important action on the west
em front the British armies on the
fiomme have again swept forward and
have raptured several important German
second nositionst On a front of four
miles the British have advanced to
depth of a mile and have held all posi
tions gained in spite of violent counter
a Hacks.
The strategic importance of the Brit
ish successes is marked by the straight
ening of their line in conformity with
that of the French, who had hitherto ad
vanced at a much greater speed than
their allies. The brevity of the prelim
inary bombardment, coupled with the
statements of press correspondents at the
front that the British losses were com
paratively small, lend strong support to
unofficial statements that the German
second line was much less strongly for
tified than their first defenses.
On the Russian front the great battle
of the Stokhod is still raging, with the
issue remaining in the balance. The
most important news from the Russian
side is in regard to the operations in the
Caucasus. The Grand Duke Nicholas re
ports continuous Kind substantial suc
cesses against the Turks and is appar
ently launching another great offensive
In the region of Erzerum and Daiburt,
aimed at the very heart of the Turkish
empire. A successful Russian advance
along this line would cut off the Turkish
armies in the south and agin place Bag
dad in jeopardy.
East Montpelier Campmeeting.
East Montpelier, July 15. The 15th
annual meeting of the East Montpelier
Evangelical Campmeeting association be
gan liPre last night with the service at
7:30 o'clock. Rev. O. J. Harvli of West
port Factory, Mass., was in charge and
gave an interesting talk in regard to the
plana for the session. -Mrs. .Nelson .
Davis of Boston is in attendance as
soloist and song leader. Rev. D. W
Staffeld of Boston, presiding elder of the
.New England conference of the evan
gelical church, arrived this morning, and
will have charge of the services. He is
to be assisted by Rev. Mr. Harvli, Rev,
Nelson B. Davis of Boston, and Rev. J. r.
Taylor, pastor of the Montpelier Evan
gebcal church.
The preaching services on Sunday will
he at 10:30 a. m., 2:30 and 7:30 p. m.
Throughout the following week there
will be services daily at the same hours,
and the morning prayer meeting is to
be held daily at 9 o clock.
Several campers are already on the
grounds, and many more are expected
to-day. An invitation is extended to
everybody to attend the meetings.
HORDE It DISPUTES
NEARER SETTLEMENT
Negotiations Ara Said to Hive Progressed
Fat in Lh Third Conference Held
in Washington.
Washington. !. C. Julr 15. The in
formal negotiations for settlement of the
issue between tli I'mted state and
General Oirranra are understood to havt
advanced a long step yesterday when
Acting secretary j"olk and r.useA Arra
dondo, Mexican ambassador designate,
held their third conference sines General
(Wranra' proposal for a diplomatic ad
justment was received and accepted.
Although both Mr. Folk and the am
bassador declined to say whut matters
were tinder discussion, there were indi-
ations that the conversations had &ed
into th definite stage where specific
questions were being formulated for
probable submission to a joint interna
tional commission. The commission plan
of settling differences between the two
coutitrica is provided for in the trsaty
of 184".
Both Mr. Polk and the ambassador re
confident that an agreement will be
reached in the near future. It is not
known whether the powers of the nego
tiator finally divided upon will include
authority to fix the tune and condition
under which American troops will be
withdrawn.
Mr. Arredondo issued a statement last
night warning agiinst sensational stories
published throughout tins country by
hone who desire intervention.
FIGHT FOR
EIGHT SHIPS
Senate Begins Debate on the
Dill to Allow for a
Bigger Navy
PLAN CONTEMPLATES
LARGE ADDITION
And Completion of General
Board's 5-Year Program
Within Three Years
TWO CRUSHED TO DEATH.
When Brick Chimney Fell at Glass Works
in Corning, N. V.
Corning, X. V., .Tulv 15. Two men
were crushed to death and three others
were injured when a brick chimney at
the Corning Glass works fell' into the
furnace yesterday afternoon.
The dead are Joseph Gibbons of Pitts
burg, Va., a bricklayer, and Antonio
Donato of Corning, a laborer.
The injured are George Stark of Pitts
burg; Philip Carapella of Corning, and
INter MrCulImigh of Pittsburg.
The men were employed in repairing
the chimney when it fell.
Washington. D. C, July l.Y-The fight
over the building program in the naval
lull pegan in tne rnste to day. A set.
tion provides for eight capital ships i
1017 instead of five as provided by tl
House and it contemplates the comple
tion of the navy general board's five.
year nuilrimg program In three years
1 he debate is expected to last severa
days.
142 RESCUED
FROM WRECK
All of Men Aboard Naval
Collier Hector Brought
Ashore
VESSEL GROUNDED
OFF CHARLESTON, S.C,
Men Were Taken Off By a
Tug and Lighthouse
Tender
TO COMBAT SHARKS.
TAKING ON CARGO.
Deutschland Loading Was Started Yes
terday Afternoon.
Baltimore, July 12. Before the las
illets of iron u I for ballast, had been
taken from the lower holds of the Ger
man submarine merchantman Deutsch
land yesterday afternoon the loading of
the "return cargo was begun.
scrap rubber was the first goods pu
into the submarine. There were strip
of only a few pounds to big pieces of
20 and, 25 pounds.
I amain Koemg on his arrival as
sured the customs officials that h
would depart within ten davs and i
was afterwards stated that 12 davs
might be spent in port because of th
time consumed m unloading, the mem
bers of the smibmarine'a crew were no
tifled by the captain that they might
accept invitations for entertainment up
to July 24.
MONTPELIER
Workmen Get Additional 10 Per Cent in
Carroll Case
An additional dividend of 10 per cent
GERMAN ATTACKS
OF NO AVAIL,
PARIS REPORTS
Tried to Storm French Trench Northeast
of Avocourt Redoubt and Also to
Undertake Attacks in Apre
mont Forest
Paris, July IS. The violent artillery
duel continued in the Fleury eector, the
war office announced to-day. The Ger
man attack on a trench northeast of the
Avocourt redoubt was repulsed and Ger
man attempts to undertake attacks in
Apremont forest were checked by a cur
tain of fire.
Breaking Up Brooding Hens,
Before closing up at night I make the
rounds of the houses and take in charge to preferred creditors, which in this in
all hena found on the nests says T. Z. Unce meftrig the wagB has foen
Farm and Home. The broodies are placed bpth M Oarroll of Barre, formerly en
in a, small house that is bare of all fur- d in tho lte buBincss. The gd.
Hushing, except several perches and a aitional dividend makes a total of 60 oer
dropping board. A strong, active -male
is also kept in the house.
The broodies are supplied the regular
ration and are given all the milk they
will consume. In three davs they are
given their freedom and rarely does one
go back to the nest. Usually m a week
cent as a hnai dividend to the wage
earners, the common creditors not re
ceiving anything.
In probate court William Boynton of
Xorthfield was appointed administrator
of rhe estate of Laura Boynton, fate of
after being removed from the nest they Xorthfield. The will of John S. Fowler,
are laying again
The broody hen is not hard to break
up if she is taken in charge the first
night she remains on the nest. If per
mitted to remain on the nest eeveral
nights, the broody fever increases and
the task of getting her to change her
mind becomes a difficult one. Besides,
when not taken in hand immediately, a
broody hen loses flesh rapidlv, which
must bo
again
AMERICAN RIGHTS SAFE.
Are Not Harmed By the Russo-Japanese
Treaty.
Petrograd, July 14, via London, July
15, 3:25 a. m. In a statement given to
the Associated Press to-night by Sergius
Sazanoff, minister of foreign affairs, the
minister declares that American rights
are not harmed by the new Russo-Japanese
agreement.
"The convention just signed," says the
statement, "is the natural-development
of previous conventions concluded be
tween Russia and Japan in 1907 (and
1910. The former of these conventions
expressly mentions the engagement of
the contracting parties to respect the
principle of equal opportunity for trade
and industry in China and to uphold and
defend this principle.
"This engagement remains in full force
after the conclusion of the convention of
which has purely a political and
conservative aim. safeguarding and de
fending Russian and Japanese territorial
richts and special interests in China
against foreign aggression.
"The new convention does not Inaugu
rate any policy injurious to American
rights and interests any more than the
convention of 1007 and 1010. These two
agreements have proved perfectly in ae
eordance with the friendly relations al
ways entertained between the United
States and Russia."
late of VVaterbury, was proven on the
deposition of Joseph Wadick of New
York, the only surviving witness of the
document
A foreclosure case, Charles B. Adams
vs. Lydia E. Farmer and others, was en
tered to-day in the county clerk's office,
The city council, in special session last
evening, almost without discussion, voted
regained before she ran lay to appropriate the usiml sum of not over
,.nnr 10 neamn nospiuu miner ine same
Starving a broodv hen with the idea conditions which have existed in prior
of breaking her up is the worst possible years. Sometime ago a special commit
ting that could be done. When, after ue ppiniea oy rno mayor, investigate!
being subjected to the starving method, t!e hospital and a week ago reported
the fever finally leaves her she is in such thplr findings. Under the egreement the
rundown condition that weeks of good cit.v entitled to have an Average of
feeding and good treatment will be re- seven patients a day during the year
quired to get her in shape to lay again. at tne institution.
Governor C. XV. Gates, who has been
in the city since Tuesday evening, at
tending the Greater Vermont meeting
nd conducting official duties. left, this
forenoon for his home in Franklin.
Manager John F. Dobhs and six play-
Substitutes for Gasoline.
In the July Woman's Home Compan
ion C. H. Claudy, the automobile expert,
says :
"There are a number of liquids on the
market the makers of which claim will of the Montpelier baseball team left
do various wonderful things to make hy automobile e,arly this forenoon for
gasoline more economical to use and the Rutland to make their first appearance
engine more powerful. Without an ex- 'n 8 state league game in the Marble
haustive test of each and every one of pity this afternoon. The other members
them I would not want to co on record f the team will proceed from Middle
as advising or condemning any of them. J hury. Garrison and Phillips will form
It seems logical, however, to believe I the battery for the locals.
mat it the claims of the various manu- Mr. and Mrs. Daniel McGovem and
facturers were demonstrable, all auto- daughter, Ruth, left this morning for
mobile manufacturers would advise the Biirllncton. where thev will
.... t v i: J .- .i .. r. - -.v ,
" u ii 11411m in tneir cars. ,-o iar 1 weeks.
Resources of United States Department
to Be Utilized.
Washington, D. C, July 15. The fed
ersl government yesterday canvassed it
resources for combating the invasion o
North Atlantic coast waters by sharks.
President Wilson and his cabinet dis
cussed what could be done to prevent
more tragedies like those which have oe
purred recently along the New Jersey
shore, and the coast guard and life-sav
mg services were ordered to assist In
hark extermination in every way pos
sible.
The bureau of fisheries issued a formal
statement during the day, advising wide
spread fishing for sharks and warning
bathers to keep in shallow water, but
admitting inability to advance a certain
ly effective means of preventing further
attacks. The statement fserted, how
ever, that there was no reason for panic
among seaside bathers.
A beach patrol was suggested to the
bureau of fisheries yesterday by Repre
sentative Scully of New Jersey, and Rep
resentative Bacharach of that state in
troduced a resolution to appropriate $5,
(HK) to aid the bureau and state authori
ties in the campaign against sharks.
MAN KILLED IN FIRE
And Less of $500,000 Was Sustained at
State Arsenal.
ew lork, duly is. une man was
killed and several firemen were over
come by smoke in a fire which swept
the New lork state arsenal at Seventh
avenue and Thirty-fifth street late yes
terday. Large quantities of military
equipment was estimated at $500,000.
1 he cause of tho tire, which started
in the carpenter's shop, has not been
determined. Explosion of a half mil
lion rounds of small arms ammunition,
300 rounds of shrapnel and 100 rounds
of shell was averted by quick work
in flooding the magazine just before
the flames reached it.
Among the stores destroyed were
5000 rifles, five motor trucks and large
supplies of clothing, shoes, blankets and
tentaire. The man killed was Thomas
MeNally, a state chauffeur. McNallv
went into the burning building and was
not seen again until firemen brought
him out unconscious. He was found un
der an automobile, badly burned. He
died 20 minutes afterwards.
The state carried no insurance on the
destroyed material.
Charleston, S. C. July 15. All
the 142 men who abandoned the imva
collier Hector when she grounded las
night are safe aboard the tug Wilming
ton and the lighthouse tender Cypress
laptain liryan ot the Charleston navy
yard announced to-day. It was said at
the customs house that it might be noon
before the vessels could reach here.
The collier carried HO marines, in addi
tion to her crew of 70 men and 12 off!
cers. The Hector left Port Royal for
Sartto Domingo Thursday. She attempt
ed to put into port here when the storm
disabled her but went down about UN
miles from the Charles town lightship
part of her superstructure remaining
above water. The Hector was built at
Sparrow's Point, Md.
ALL ABOARD SAVED
According to Reports Received by Nary
Department.
Washington, D. C, July 15. Reports
to the navy department said that no
lives were lost on the Hector.
SCHOOLROOM "CHLOROFORM
la
B0ATRIDE ENDED REUNION.
DIVORCE WAS GRANTED
And Custody of 15-Year-Old Boy Was
Given to the Father.
Middlermrr, July 15. The June term
of Addison county court came to an end
yesterday morning at 10:10 o'clock. The
last ea heard was the divorce suit of
Charles Doner vs. Addie Doner. The di
vorce was granted the plaintiff on the
grounds of adultery, and the custody of a
14-year-old son was given the father.
as I know, no such advice is given by
any manufacturer.
"I do not believe that you would be apt
to damage your car by making a trial,
oui 1 coniess to feeling somewhat doubt -
i L .... .
mi iimi mi. result will he what von
Reports from Heaton hospital this
forenoon indicated that Fred, the three
year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert
Charbonneau, who was severely burned
from the shoulder to the knee Thursday
, , - 1 . 1 , . .
hone for. Th ,rf P',nK maicnes, wa about
- -- - - - i'u.(iiinKc U1 I f h tftmn
uid sepma in ma Ia U
that in practically all rr tha ro.;,,. An officer of the Meehanicville, X. Y
ment of the carburetor is necessary, and P,ice for(,e arrived in the city last even
it is always a good automobih- practice nt1 rrturnd to that town to-day
to leave a properly a diluted carburetor "mu,m numpnrey ana .aiiss tu-
alone.'
Army of the Potomac Society Enjoyed
Trip on Lake Champlain.
Burlington, July 15. The forty-third
annual reunion of the Society of the
Army of the Potomac was brought to a
most pleasing end yesterday when the
members ot the society and invited
guests of this city were entertained by-
being taken on the steamer Chateaugay
for an all day's cruise to the- principal
historic, spots in the northern waters of
ake Champlain. The party numbered
bout three hundred and the day was
most enjoyably passed on the steamer,
hich left the wharf at 9 o clock in the
morning, returning at 4 o'clock in the
fternoon. A buffet luncheon was served
I o'clock.
The boat went north amontr the is-
nds of the lake swinging into Platts-
burg bay, touching at Plattsburg wharf,
here a few of the party left the steam
er to take the train on the other" side
of the. lake to their homes. As the steam
er passed over the bay where the Mae
donoutsh battle was fought, Major Wal
lace Batcheliler told the stony of the
battle, in winch Malonough won and
the British commander was killed. Ma
jor Batchelder also told the story of the
battle of Yalcour island and pointed out
points of interest along the way traveler
by the ateamer.
A trumpeter of the Second cavalry
was aboard and during the dav svunded
all of the various calls, closing with
taps as the bot touched the wharf n
the return. Borneo's orchestra was a
Commissioner HiHegas' Designation
for Basketry.
Burlington, July 15. In addressing the
conference on Vermont's rural problems
yesterday, Commisioner Hillegas of the
ermont public school system said that
under the old regime there was a com
plete separation of school and home.
This separation existed still to some de
gree in Vermont. The child had a feel
ing that the school wa no place for the
parent. Appreciation of the problems of
the community was useful in school
work. The commissioner told of one
school in the state where there was
great kick of reference works in history.
The. teacher thereupon had the children
bring from home all the history books
they could lay their hands upon, and
then set one book against the other by
discussing the questions on which they
disagreed. Some of these books, said Dr.
Hillegas, ought to have been burned.
The superintendents would be surprised,
he said, at the way parents would re-
pond if they were advised as to the
best books to ret. In that way the se
rious books at home would begin to be
used appreciatively.
I don t believe there exists anvwhere 1
as much material as can be picked up in
country homes," continued the speaker,
for purposes of shop work. The ordinary
farmers boy has tools that were not ob
tainable in a large city. "We haven't
exhausted the resources of the ordinary
home in an educational way." Dr. Hille
gas pooh-poohed basketry, which he said
was a "good substitute for chloroform
in the schoolroom." Raffia work he also
criticized. But he gave an example of a
school in which a teacher .with the guid
ance of plans, had enabled some of her
boys to make a first-class rowboat. This
was an instance of many ways in which
practical manual work might be had.
Another problem was getting the chil
dren to school. "The parent of a child in
school shouldn't get the idea that the
state is going to transport that child to
school, even if the distance is 10 miles
away," said the commissioner. And
teachers and superintendents clapped
their approval. He said he knew of an j
instance where the children had provid
ed for thetu a conveyance which carried
them a mile and a half. They followed
it buck to town in summer and went to
the movies. One of their number was a
one-legged bo v.
Dr. Hillegas repeated his statement of
Thursday in which he said that the high
schools of Vermont were neither trying
to make farmers nor prepare a boy for
college. Both objects were defeated if
made too obvious. But the high schools
had in the psst been preparatorv schools.
and the result had been K comparatively
small proportion of students who went
to college.
FELCH .MURDER CASE
AROUSES INTEREST
IN ORANGE COUNTY
Otis Williams and Mrs. Joseph Fetch Are
Accused of the Death of the Latter'
Husband, Near Waits
River, April ia.
Orinth, July 15. The people of Cor
inth and surrounding towns are very
miiih stirred over the approaching trial
in the Felch murder case, which ia sched
uled to be started in Orange county court
the coming week. Joseph Felch, aged 32,
wa a prosperous farmer on the farm
known as the Nicholas Fellows place and
that formerly owned by Harry Payne,
about one mile and a half from Waits
River village in Topsham. Hi wife was
formerly Miss Anna Smith. Otis Wil
liam worked for Felch and lived with
hi wife and baby in the Psvne house.
On the night of April i!2, Mr. Felch.
having a little sap left over, went to the
sugarhouse to finish boiling, so as to
finish the work and begin other impor
tant work the following Monday. He
wa found dead with a bullet through
the brain, having been shot a he wa
sitting on a seat beside the boiling ap
paratu. The. bullet passed through the
emples, then through a lantern hune on
a peg level w ith bis head and embedded
I self in a post beyond. The hole in the
sugar house, through which it was fired,
wa plainly marked. The body, from
evidence of blood stains, etc., had been
moved and thrown on a rifle of larg
calibre belonging to WTlliam.
Town officials, selectmen and health
officer and Dr. XV. R. Rowland were
called and gave it ss their opinion that
suicide wa impossible, though the w idow
and an uncle, Thomas Smith, who lived
s next-door neighbor, were outspoken in
sserting that it must have been murder.
Exciting events followed in short order.
The Woods-Morgan detective came on
the case, and Williams was arrested. In
few days Williams was alleged to
ave made some sort of a statement,
hich was immediately followed by the
rrest of Mrs. Felch. They were bound
over at a hearing in Bradford, and the
grand jury found a bill at the Juno ses
sion at Chelsea.
As the people of the surrounding towns
re still much wrought up over the ca.n
the drawing of a jury is expected to be
hard matter. States Attorney F. S.
Williams rf Bradford will be assisted by
Attorney-General H. G. Barber in tho
prosecution. D. C. Conant of Bradford
nd Stanley C. W ilson of Chelsea repre
sent Otis Williams, and R. A. Hoar and
he Harveys represent Mrs. Felch.
The uncle, Thomas Smith, after peeu-
ar behavior ot some weeks duration,
as committed to Waterbury.
(VERMONT BOYS
PATROL BORDER
First RattaJion Sent Out to
Relieve the R V
lar Troop r.
ARE COVERS
LONC DISTANCE
This Is the Most Important
Work to Which They
Have Been Ordered
Fagls Pass, Tex., July 15. The ramj
of the first Vermont infantry ws re
duced in size yesterday afternoon when
the first battalion was dispatched to tha
border for patrol work, relieving the reg
ular troops along the line. Captain C. E.
Pell, in charge of Co. B of St. Albans,
waa 6ent to Blocker's ranch, 13 mile
down the river from Eagle Pass, near
Laredo. Thirty-five men were left be
hind for rifle practice. Lieutenant' John
Sullivan of St. Albans is acting adjutant
for Major W, O. Cooley of Brattleboro.
Other companies of the battalion are
scattered along the 75 miles of border.
HEADED FOR BORDER.
ENCOURAGEMENT FOR PLAN.
ARCHIE LeCLAIR'S FUNERAL.
Was Held at St. Monica's Church To
day.
The funeral of Archie J. LeClair of
Becklev hill, who met death by drown
ing while battling in a branch
Was Received at Meeting of Proposed
Welfare League.
Barre's proposed welfare league re
ceived renewed stimulus last evening
hen a number of representative people
the city came together in How land
hall to discuss the project. Frank G.
Howland acted as chairman and Charles
Brown, the playground supervisor,
as elected to serve as secretary pro
tern. Much interest was manifested in
the proposal to go ahead with 7lans for
the formation of a league and it was
decided to appoint a committee and in
vest its members with authority to as
certain how far the community will sup
port a league financially. The chairman
was authorized to make the committee
appointments.
Mrs. Osgood of Lynn, Mass., whose
daughter is actively engaged in welfare
work, was one of the moist interesting
speakers of the evening. She gave her
hearers the benefit of first hand knowl
edge and answered a number of ques
tions. Miss Gridley of Montpelier said
Uist successful welfare work is based on
four cornerstones: Investigation, pub
licity, co-operation and scientific admin
istration. Health Oilicer.Dr. J. XV. Stew
art developed a number of practical ideas
in connection with his discussion ot wel
fare work where its sanitary aspects are
concerned. Rev. J. W. Barnctt and Rev.
Edgar Cropland thought that a welfure
league would aid in eliminating the evil
of denominational overlapping in oharity
work. Judge trank J. Martin urged
upon the meeting the necessity of havinj
an organization that is strongly in
trenched financially. Another meeting
of those interested will be held soon.
But Mexican Bandita are Being Trailed
By Carrania Troops.
Mexico City, July 15. Eight Meripait
bandits are headed for the American bor
der in the neigh borhood of Juarez, ac
cording to reports received here from.
Chihuahua. A detachment of Mexican
troops I in pursuit of them.
Constitutionalists and Zapatista force
hsve clashed near Santiago De Tiazala,
state of Mexico. Reports received here
say that the government forces were vic
torious and that two Zapatista general
and 57 soldiers were killed.
MISSING AVIATORS RETURN.
Had Been Absent from the Camp Sines
Thursday.
Columbus, N. M., July 15. The army
aviators, Lieut. Ira A. Rader and John
Brooks, who had been missing from Gen
eral Pershing's headquarters camp at Co
lonia Dublan since early Thursday, re
turned last night, according to a wireless
report received by Major C. , S. Farns
worth, commandant here. 1
A MILITARY FAMILY
I
Is Recognized in Promotion of Lieutenant
Sidney H. Foster.
In the Congressional Record of July 10
is the notice of the promotion of Second!
Lieutenant Sidney II. Foster of the 24th,
infantry to be first lieutenant. Lieu
tenant Foster is a son of Colonel Herbert)
S. Herbert, I". S. A., retired, who in turn
is a son of First Lieutenant Sidney J I.
Foster, who served nearly three years in
the 11th Vermont volunteers, war of
1801 -60. Colonel Foster graduated front
Wes-t Point in 1-97(5 and the younger lieu
tenant graduated from the same institu
tion 35 years later a remarkable mili
tary record for one family. Colonel Fos
ter is the present representative from
Calais and is chairman of the House
committee on military affairs.
THEY SURRENDERED.
SMALL STRIKE AT WIN0OSKI.
ao Spinners Walk Out For What They
Call "Living Wage."
Winooski. July 15. The spinners of
the American Woolen company walked
out yesterday afternoon. One of them
said their claim was that they can
not make a living wage 011 the L nited
States armv contract they are working
on and that they asked for standard
rav instead of piece work. About 20
sninners walked out. They visited R.
S. Bart left and stated what they wished.
One man said that Mr. Bart let t told
t in a licit vi 111c : j 1 f
Winooski river Wednesday afternoon, ' ,nP!n wnen nry nFi. . ,..,.- ...,..
. ... .'- .u-i 1. .,A.,nMn't A, onirtlntKT inr thorn
morning at 9 o'clock, th parish priest.
Rev. P. M. McKenna, ffficiatimr. There
wa a large gathering of friends, ineluti
: i r f T i.
hour rn rn frrafit nf vfiric
Central C.ran.te ' ... -
talKOUT Will ailltl, urn tn- mill
as the wage were arranged for piece
work. Trie men said afterwards that
they are working on shirtings for men in
the' armv and that they ask for 25
Report on Feldspar.
pronerlv adin.tH .-. rK,,.(.-.
pen j-mun, wno were arrested at war
ren Friday, charged with a statutory
offense. They left Meehanicville a week
M it. ta aea4jMi -a n rl t,a.a luun wMU
The annual statement of the ceolorieal in nn f. in V.if.M ir
surrey on feldspar in 1I5 is now avail- who is 39 rear old. is a-. id to have "a
. ,,lmrlng th 7'" family in the Xew Vork town and bis
no.. o anon, Km. oi iciospar, ravmg a companion is 11 rears youne-r.
ai ta "iiur va it Mi i tj nuiuurr 1 popit?
' church lajt rmmt. tn li.tan ,.
Acooramg o uje annual statement of ly concert of the Montpelier band. Man
me peoiopvsi aurrey on niei hriquettmg took adrantag- of the lawn festival held
in 115, now arailsble for distribution, on the church lawn bv the TVtWanr
the production durtrg the year w 221,- ohorch societr. er-virg the concert from
ions, aiuu a. cvjj iio. ine numerous tsbSe.
greac anu.uon in v .e ,.ems oi enieria n- : r whit.f whjt. ,nd Jo;lc
ment. 1 hey played almost continuously, j ,-TeJ'j intTmnt was made in the
interspersing their program of operatic j CtihoUe wnim on Be(.ki.v ,flwt.
and popular numbers with war, planta-1 r,ora, tributes "included the' following:
tion and folk song which were sin g , p;,i.. f.:i. ,r. t..
era at. the riant of the
r t i i i j 1 1 : i : The
j no ufaicis were: iiuhiii in- , ,. , C1 , i j
. ,. . .,., r. , ! starts in full, about 40 to 5(1 hands and
II 111. , r . . ' - I
ing depaitment and the weaving de
part rnents.
by all led by Mrs. Lucille Morgan.
James R. Mackay of Elm street, who
is taking a vacation from his duties mt
the postoffice, left yesterday for Queen
City park, where he will visit with
friends for a few dajs.
The following item from a llardwirk
guay; carnations, C'entrsl Granite Co.;
mixed flowers, Mrs. William H. Rvk;
carnations, Mr. George Cutler; 19 roses,
Mis Elizabeth Bcaulieu; carnations. Mr.
and Mrs. David White; mixed flowers.
Mr. and Mrs. A. II. Wilkins. Mr. and
REPUDIATED CHICAGO ACTION.
Kentucky Progressive Committee Will
Use Bull Moose Picture.
Louisville. Kr, July IS. In resolu
tions adopted t a called meeting of the
exchange will be of .interest in this city: j canterbury bells. Mrs.
P.oval Moxler of Farre hsa purchased the Morence and 1 here
Mrs. J. Lavelley; roses, Olsnd Harvey ; j Kentucky rrgrfan tita rxe.-utu
roa, A. Hutchint; roses. Ira Harver; 'committee held here ypterdr sfter-
Mr. and Mrs. Frank F. Bradbury's Homo
Invaded by Nearly 150 People. j
At their home on Trow hill last eNen-j
ing, Mr. and Mrs. Frank F. Bradbury
suddenly found themselves in the hans
of their friends and while a chorus ot
explanations and congratulations came
from nearly 150 people who had taken
possession of the premies, the host and
hostess were reminded that it. was their
wedding anniversary. No previous ink-f
ling of the affair having been conveyed
to them, Mr. and Mrs. Bradbury wera'
naturally taken aback by the celebration
in their honor, but they were equal t
the demands of the occasion and a most
enjoyable evening followed.
Twenty vears of wedded life weia
crowned with a celebration that will bn
remembered. An interesting program of
musical numbers included a very credita
ble violin solo by Miss Marjorie Smith,
a piano solo by .Miss Elva Bradbury and,
solos by Mrs. Grace Wood Cutler, whosa
appropriate contributions to tha pro
gram, twenty lears Ago, ana silver
Threads Among the l,olQ, were warm!
received. An original poem, written byi
Mrs. Pierce, was read by Mrs. Douglas
Ruben and one of the best features of tha
gathering came when Boy Smith, speak
ing in behalf of the company, presents!
the couple a beautiful art square and a
purse ot money. The response from Mr,
and Mrs. Bradbury was made by Mrs.
Koben. Other gifts were made and wera
gratefully received by the couple. Be
fore the party ended delicious refreslt
ments of ice cream and cake were served.
Mr. and Mrs. Bradbury were manic!
in Woodbury July 14, The bride's
name was Miss Jessie Patch. After tha
ceremony they returned to Barre ani
have since resided either here in tha
city or in Barre Town. In both commui.
itirs thev have formed a wide circle of
close friends. Mr. Bradbury i employe!
by Kevnolds s. Sm.
COAST GUARDS AT WORK.
To Rid the Shores of the Man-Eating
Sharks.
Ritchie, Mis -rK-on the arti'm of the Progresie na-J Washington. D. C. .Tulv 15. The cos? I
Lapses; roses, tions 1 committee in endoring Charles 'guard service tok up to-dsT the active,
Hall restaurant and will take possession ! Mr. Lacasse; carnations, Mr. and Mr. . E. Hughe for president was repudi-, direction of efforts to rid the north At-
t once. Mr. an1 Mr. lull will reside ; . t.iudici. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Ijvery tel. larti -coast of sharks which have clearef
on their farm down t) rner. Ther!nd family; carnations, Mr. and Mr. The resolution prmide-d f-T the choo t manv b-'hc of b'ier. The Iife-sav-
hae been iilenfit.ed with tha restaurant ; K?r iJooley, Miss Eva Lindsey. F !r inc of prei,r-nt il elo-lor to be ote1 ire r.e also wiH render aid. The,
business for the past down years n-l!"d Np"leon White; mixed for in No ember nd tor tl e n- of a buJ ; bureau i ri-V ri- h is iH a statemcn
hava bofn -ry u'reaful during that 'William Provost; ref trlo ani Wt-' moose as the party emblem inrtcid wl dn-Urir tl-ere is do reason fur a fifiia
time, Kil Alleav future cf Theodore Roocelt. amvtg batL:,
