The intelligent, common
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements* rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
VOL. 23. NO. 39.
Workingmen and People General­
ly Attend Meetings in Large
Numbers.
The Labor Forward campaign is a
riumphant success. The meetings
are well attended and the speakers
are greatly enthused over the interest
shown.
The principal speakers in the cam­
paign are Collis Liovely, vice presi­
dent of the Boot and Shoe Workers
International union, C. "W. Cullen,
organizer for the United Hatters of
Northern America John Chubbuck,
organizer for the A. F. of L., and J.
O. Shanessy, organizer for the Jour­
neymen Barbers International union
C. Jr. Bolander, organizer for the
Journeymen Tailors John Jents, rep­
resentative of the International Tile
and Helpers union Joseph B. Fox,
general organizer of the United
Brotherhood of Carpenters J. Cloh
essy, vice president Switchmen's Un­
ion of North America E. G. Hall and
G. W. Lawson, president and secre­
tary, respectively, of the Minnesota
Seatte Federation of Liabor. A. F.
kartell, organizer for the Hotel and
Restaurant Employes International
alliance is also one of the strong
factors in the movement.
Lovely Starts Campaign.
The campaign opened Sunday with
frieetings at the several churches.
Collis Lovely spoke in the morning at
the Second Presbyterian church and
in the evening at the First M. E.
church. Mr. Cullen spoke in the eve­
ning at the West Duluth Eaptist
church. Mr. Shanessy gave an inter­
esting address at the Lakeside M. E.
church. E. G. Hall fired the first gun
at Proctor where he addressed a
meeting held at the Congregational
church. Organizer Chubbuck spoke
to a well attended meeting at the
Hazelwood olmrcli.
On Monday evening G. W. Lawson
and C. W. Cullen spoke to a meeting
r»f citizens on Duluth Heights. There
'were 11 meetings held Monday eve­
ning. Each, of the speakers dwelt
upon the various phases of the labor
movement. Mr. Lovely is making a
splendid impression among the busi­
ness and professional men of the city.
Tuesday morning a metting was held
at Foresters* hall under the auspices
of the Musicians' union and addressed
by C. M. Bolland and Collis Lovely.
J. C. Shanessy and C. W. Cullen ad
dlressed another meeting at 32 East
First street conducted under the aus­
pices of the Stage Employees and Mo­
tion Picture Operators' union.
Longshoremen Organized.
In the evening meetings were held
at Eagles' hall. Brown's hall and
Bricklayers' hall. These meetings
•were largely attended. The most in­
teresting meeting Tuesday evening
•was conducted under the auspices of
the Longshoremen, presided over by
J. G. O'Neil at which a union of
Freight handlers was organized. Six­
ty new members were initiated.
Wednesday evening meetings were
Jield at Moose hall, Eagles' hall, 25
East Michigan street. Columbia hall,
M«rritt school, People's hall, Cobb
school and Washburn school, and
(Continued on Page 2.)
Why the workers and producers of
America,—all who are fighting to
make it a real democracy,—should
oppose war and resist appeal to the
"patriotism" that means privilege, is
told in clear and convincing fashion
in the sensational new book by Fred­
eric C. Howe,—"Why War."
Here, in chapter after chapter, is
the whole story, told for the first time
in America, of how Big Business
manipulates the patriotic impulses of
of the people and uses government to
back its schemes of exploitation with
the treasure and blood of the nation.
Nailed to the Cross.
"Everybody's magazine," has at­
tacked the committee on Industrial
relations for warning the public
against the conspiracy of the Rocke­
feller-Morgan group to use the na­
tion's "surplus wealth," now heaped
up in New York banks, for a cam­
paign of financial imperialism in weak
forign countries where labor is cheap
-and rich natural resources may be
plundered almost at will.
The committee had pointed out that
the men who organized the American.
International corporation are the
lame men who have been: preaching
.v.
BUCK IT lUDS
Railroad Labor Officers Declare
Many Roads Still Give
Rebates.
LOVELY SCORES HIT PRIVATE CAR ABUSE
AMONG BUSINESS MEN SUBJECT OF CHARGE
Many Good Labor Speakers Here
Who Stimulate Interest in
Unions.
Wasteful Policy Obtaining By In­
efficient Operation of Roads
Laid Bare.
CLEVELAND, (May 4.—In a state­
ment issued today by the Railroad
Transportation brotherhood, attention
was directed to the practice of rail­
roads in granting rebates to shippers,
hauling private cars, etc.
If the railroads are really sincere in
desiring to consereve their revenue, a
recent report of the interstate com­
merce commission, shows the roads
how they would save millions of dol­
lars which they lose through practice
of hauling private cars and the grant­
ing of rebates.
This is important in connection with
the highly exaggerated estimates
which the railways ars handing out to
the public as to the cost to the carriers
of the adoption of the eight-hour
work day in freight train service.
Rebating Continues.
It is commonly supposed that the
practice of rebating has been brought
to an end, but the records of the fines
imposed upon the railroads show that
this unlawful practice has not yet
been put a stop to. Not ouly do the
railroads lose revenue by granting re­
bates but the fines which are imposed
by the courts when rebate cases are
detected are very considerable. It is
reasonable to suppose that only a
small percentage of the actual rebat
is"discovered by the authorities.
These cases of rebating and unlaw­
ful concessions and discriminations
are not confined to any particular sec­
tion of the country or to any special
group of railroads. The practices are
quite general among different rail­
roads and in different sections. In
1915 the fines imposed upon the car­
riers amounted to $234,000, the fol­
lowing railroads being convicted by
the courts: Central Railroad of New
Jersey, Chicago, Terre Haute & South­
eastern, Grand Trunk, Louisville &
Nashville, Michigan Central, Missouri,
Kansas & Texas and the Sierra rail­
way.
Government Fines Them.
Commenting upon the unecessary
expense attending the infraction of
the laws directly connected -with in­
terstate commerce, the federal com­
mission in its report in "the five per
cent case" rendered last year, states
that these expenses should be avoided.
This report says that the railroads in
official classification territory alone
have paid since December 1, 1909, in
the aggregate $S14,135 in forfitures
and fines, the larger part of which
represent penalties and for rebating.
One system alone has paid penalties
aggregating $335,185. If this one
source of depletion of railway reve­
nues were dried up by a cessation of
the multifarious methods through
which favoritism is shown certain
shippers, it is suggested to railway of­
ficials who are opposing the granting
of an eight-hour day to their freight
train employes, that there will be
more revenue in the treasuriers of the
companies with which to meet the
slight increase in cost.
Free transpotation of private cars
is an abuse for which there is little
justification.
Tables prepared by the commission
(Continued on Page 2.)
cheap labor costs at home, attacking
President Wilson for his refusal to
conquer Mexico in their interest, and
urging with all their might a great
army and navy and an aggressive
foreign policy.
In Dr. Howe's new book the editors
of "Everybody's" and all other
shouters in behalf of financial imperi­
alism will find page after page of
evidence showing that the danger that
threatens democracy in America as a
program to increase foreign trade.
Wall Street For War.
By relating some of the recent his­
tory of Europe Dr. Howe shows that
the use of governmental authority to
promote privae schemes' of spolia­
tion, as Wall street would like to have
in used in Mexico, is the prime cause
of a large percentage of the inter­
national troubles of the world.
The Vanderlip preteese that it is
necessary to acquire hugh concessions
in weak and undeveloped countries, in
order to build up foreign trade, is ex­
posed.
"The real trade of the world," Dr.
Howe points out, "Is among the civil­
ized peoples: it is between the great
powers. The real markets for foreign
trade are with the great powers rather
The Duluth Real Estate Exchange has again been
heard from. The members of this organization, "WHO
toil not, neither do they spin," have the habit of "but­
ting into" everybody else's business.
In all temporary differences between employers and
employes this pretensive protectorate of the city's wel­
fare assumes that it is its sacred duty to dictate the
terms of relationship that shall obtain between them.
If any number of employers in Duluth desire to enter
into a contractual relationship with their employes based
upon the recognition of the union shop principle, the
members of the Duluth Real Estate Exchange lose no
time in raising their hands in holy horror to enter protest
against such relationship.
Two Duluth unions 'are attempting to make a con­
tract with their employers for the recognition of the
union shop. Enemies of organized labor designate this
as the "closed shop." They have a purpose in so char­
acterizing the union shop. The American mind is op­
posed to anything that is closed. The union shop is not
a closed shop it is the most open institution in the
world. The real closed shop is the non-union shop it is
closed to workingmen who are members of organized
labor.
The Electrical Workers union has submitted its case
to arbitration with the employers. It is believed that
a settlement will be reached based upon the recogni­
tion of the union shop.
The Sheet Metal Workers union is having a little
harder struggle, but when the smoke of battle shall have
cleared away we are confident the bosses will enter into
a union shop agreement with that union.
After nearly ten years of slumbering the Duluth
Real Estate Exchange has resurrected itself, and Its
members are attempting to dictate to the contractors
what contractual relationship shall exist between them
and their employes.
^According to, jresoluUon% passe&:at,t&. meeting of. tfeg.
Exchanges field Tuesday noon the attention of the Com­
mercial club, all business interests, architects and public
spirited citizens was called to the fact that certain labor
unions were attempting to again "put Duluth on the
closed shop basis." The resolution held that such a
movement means "intolerable conditions, increased cost
of building and eventually a series of labor troubles
and reopening of old struggles, which means the re­
tarding of the growth of Duluth, and therefore all are
urged to use their influence in opposing the "closed
shop" and refuse in the present emergency, as was done
at the time of the struggle eight years ago, "TO DO NO
BUSINESS WITH ANY CONTRACTORS OPERATING
THEIR ESTABLISHMENTS UNDER 'CLOSED SHOP'
RULES."
In other words the Duluth Real Estate Exchange pro­
poses to boycott any and all contractors who enter into
trade agreements with organized labor which give recog­
nition to the principle of the union shop.
When President Taft was a judge he issued his first
blanket injunction against what he was pleased to term
the "secondary strike" and the "secondary boycott."
He held that labor, had the right to strike and the right
to refuse to patronize such firms as were held to be un­
fair, but it had no right to use means that would pun­
ish innocent parties involved as a consequence of a strike
or boycott.
This threat on the part of the Duluth Real Estate
Exchange is bringing into play the secondary boycott.
It is an unlawful weapon and has been so held by our
courts ever since Judge Taft made the law in the Phalen
case during the Ann Arbor railroad strike. If an at­
tempt is made to carry out this threat of waging a
secondary boycott, labor will be justified in turning the
tables upon these men who have long been their perse­
cutors.
Isn't it about time for the people of Duluth to
awaken from their slumbers and find out for them­
than with the colonies and dependent
peoples."
Dr. Howe quotes from the American
International corporation's anounce
ment that its purpose is to enable the
United States to take a larger part
than heretofore in its industrial de­
velopment of other countries where
capital is needed*.
Where "Capital Is Needed."
"Such countries are certainly not
Great Britian, Prance and Germany,—
the great investing nations of
Europe," adds the authpr. "The
countries where 'capital is needed' are
the' weak and helpless peoples of
Mexico, Central America, and South
America, of Morocco, Tunis, Persia,
Africa, China and the insular posses­
sions of the United States.
"Wealth is accumulating," so the
announcement reads, 'so rapidly that
a portion of it can.be spared for in­
vestment abroad*'1
And Dr Howe shows how this "sur­
plus wealth" has lured Great Britian
into Egypt and the Transvaal, France
into Morocco, Germany into Turkey,
aided in strangling Persia, drained
France of capital. needed lor internal
development, negotiated, the "six
power loan to China." And" how
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC BBFOBM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULUTH AND SUPEBtOB, MAY 6,1916.
NOON-DAY LABOR FORWARD MEETING
For the Busines' ^n and General Public, Lyceum Theatre, Friday Noon 12 to 1 p. in. Subject: "Convict Labor and its Ruinous Competition with Free Labor"
its failure to re
the four methods of employment generally in use it the prisons of today, By Collis Lovely, Vice President Boot and Shoe Work­
ers International Union *5 You are urgently requested to attend and hear Ife important subject discussed from lator's standpoint. Admission Free.
WHY AIL AMERICAN WAGE EARNERS AND PRODUCERS SHOULD OPPOSE WAR
Pres. Wilson saved us from "dollar
diplomacy" by refusing to sanction
our taking part in the scheme to con­
trol the internal administration and
revenue system of China.
"Dollar diplomacy, navalism and
the exploitation of weaker peoples,"
he adds, have gone hand in hand
during the last 20 years. The darkest
pages of this story will never be writ­
ten, for the records lie buried in the
graves of weak and defenceless peo­
ples in every part of Africa, in Asia,
in Turkey, Persia, Asia Minor and the
Balkans it is a story that would have
been written in the subjugation of
Mexico, in Central and South America,
had not the Monroe doctrine inter­
vened.
Work Hand in Hand.
"We should be slow to accept the
statement that this is a movement for
the promotion of foreign trade, as the
organizers of these Corporations de­
clare and as patriotic business men
have been led to believe. As has
been seen, none of the countries of
Europe have materially advanced
their trade and commerce by the or­
ganization of banking institutions for
that, alleged purpose. Rather the
foreignbanktyg agencies are engaged
AND OTHER
BARNACLES DUE FOR BIG TRIMMING
selves what are the real obstacles to Duluth's progress
in a business way?
Is there any doubt about Duluth being a closed shop
town? What are the facts?
The Duluth Real Estate Exchange is one of several
institutions which have Duluth by the throat. It is
milking the last drop of blood from Duluth's business.
It exacts high rent from merchants. It extorts high
prices from home buyers. It gambles in Duluth real
estate, pockets a part of the plunder, and sends the Bal­
ance out of town to be enjoyed by others. The Duluth
Real Estate, Exchange is a closed shop institution, so
much so that no outsider has a chance to make a living
in the Teal estate business here.
In the constitution and by-laws of the Duluth Real
Estate Exchange, Art. 13, Sec. 2, thereof, there appears
this ironclad rule, "NO COMMISSION OR CONSIDERA­
TION IN LIEU THEREOF SHALL BY ANY MPMBliiH
OF THIS EXCHANGE BE PAID TO OR DIVIDED WITH
ANY PERSON WHO IS NOT A MEMBER OF THE
EXCHANGE."
The constitution of no labor union on earth contains
such an arbitrary clause. The door of organized labor
is open to every man and woman who works. No at­
tempt is ever made to force employers to employ only
members of unions, unless a contract has previously
been entered into to that effect.
The Duluth Real Estate Exchange makes no con­
tract it makes all the-rules and all the regulations, and
bends everything in the interest of its membership to
satisfy their greed for extortionate commissions.
The 35uluth Real Estate Exchange also has a wage
scale bf which it determines the commissions its mem­
bers shall receive on the sale of real estate. Art. IS,
Sec. 3, at -its constitution contains this clause:—"Com
miseions on Bales of real estate not less than 5 per cent
on the first $5,000 and not less than 2 Ya per-cent on the
ewe^up to. $53,0
0 0 and not less than 1 per cent on
ith^^Sfess jisvtsr
:$50,0PQ.^
"No commission.to be less than
Its inifitaram scale Is this
$i6.00."
Now the members of this institution who aTe sucking
the very last drop of blood out of the people of this city,
who have set up a standard of rules by which they ex­
tort the people, attempt to prevent the workingmen from
organizing and making contracts with their employers
based upon the same protective principle that compelled
the real estate men to make their business more staple
and less injurious from unfair competition.
And not only is the Duluth Real Estate Exchange a
closed institution in operation and in effect, but the ex­
isting Duluth banks are closed institutions to all manu­
facturers and Jobbers who are not within the ring. If
anew wholesale grocery house should establish itself in
Duluth it would first be necessary for its owners to
start a new bank at the same time. If a new manufac­
turer is to come to this city who would Compete with
existing manufacturers, there is no chance for him to
obtain credit here as the banking institutions are now
run.
By all means let us have a closed shop fight in
Duluth. Let us take the lid off the city Let us ascer­
tain what is really wrong with this city and why its
growth is so slow.
If this small attempt on the part of organized labor
to restore the union shop in Duluth does nothing else it
will perform a great public service by leading the peo­
ple to open their eyes to the evils that dominate the
business of the city.
If the Real Estate Exchange wants a real "closed
shop" fight let it come on. Organized labor is primed
and loaded. We have no fear of the consequences.
This much can be assured that when the smoke of
battle shall have cleared away organized labor will come
out of it clean and triumphant. It will take one good
fight to remove the obstacles which stand in the pathway
of Duluth's progress. We are ready for it.
in obtaining concessions, building rail­
roads,', securing mining, land and oil
grants, in the making of loans to
weaker powers, and in cooperating in
the sale of munitions.
"And an examination of the inter­
ests of the banking institutions- that
are promoting the new corporation
shows that their gelations are not in
the field of manufacturing, trade and
comerce at all. They are in the field
of monopoly, finance and speculation.
"As happened in .Europe, it is.
False Appeal to Patriotism,
necessary to give a patriotic sanction
to financial imperialism to Identify
the nation with its program. Wall
street can easily finance a dozen $50,
000,OOf corporations!. But that
would leave them Wall street corpora­
tions. The flag would not willingly
follow their investments the nation
would not be a complacent collection
agency for such questionable claim­
ants so the new international cor­
poration is to include as many other
interests as posible. Such strength is
needed, the anouncement says, as can
only be found by arousing the inter
est and securing the cooperation of
the. entire country. It is necessary to
qia£e it a national undertaking and.
MINNESCT*
WSIOR5CAI
TOCISTY
Judge. Dancer Stays Proceedings
in Sale of Armory Building
to Sbriners.
COURT SETS DAT FOR
HE-OPENING OF CASE
People's Lawyer Making Good
Fight to Protect Principle
of Referendum.
Judge H. A. Dancer in district court
Tuesday granted an order on motion
of Frank Crassweller, special council
for the city of Duluth, staying all pro­
ceedings in the old Armory sale case
until May 13, when counsel for the
city will move the court for an order
vacating" the former judgment and
granting the defendant city leave to
file an amended answer.
Although the records of the district
court clerk in the case of Aad Temple
Building association against the city
Duluth, show that the case was re­
moved to the state supreme court and
there is no record of it having been
returned^ it was stated authoritatively
yesterday that the higher court had
remitted the case to district court
here,. and that the whole matter
stands as it did before, except that
Judge Dancer's judgment of March 3,
ordering the city to deliver a deed to
the Shriners has not been vacated.
Issue Is Important.
The situation now is that the city
after May 13 will appeal, and the
amended answer will accompany the
appeal to the-supreme court.
~Th© council by special ordinance' or­
dered the old Armory sold to Aad
Temple association for $50,000. The
carrying out of a contract to that ef­
fect between the parties, was inter­
rupted by the intervention of a refer­
endum petition under the city charter,
which City Clerk Borgen found in­
sufficient and which was amended
after the 10-day period had elapsed,
as construed by the city authorities.
Aad Temple association, through
John Jenswold, counsel, appealed to
the district court asking for a judg­
ment from the court directing the
city to deliver a deed accordingly.
Favored the Shriners.
Judge Dancer heard the case and
decided in favor of the Temple asso­
ciation, the city being represented by
City Attorney Samuelson. From this
decision, as stated, the city appealed
and in the meantime Frank Crass­
weller was appointed special counsel
in the case.
The petition to reopen the case is
made upon the grounds that the mat­
ter is one of great importance and
that since it is to be appealed to the
supreme court, it is necessary that the
evidence of the facts be set up, which
alone constitutes a defense, and that
the evidence should be submitted to
the district court and the supreme
court, in order that the question of
the fight of referendum petitioners to
have 10 days' additional time, within
Which to file supplemental petitions,
may be passed upon. It is argued that
there was no presumption that such
supplemental petitions would be filed,
and that there is no allegation in the
original answer, as server, that any
were filed. It is contended that the
fact of su?h filing is solely a matter of
defense, and the question of such pe­
titions was not raised in the original
answer.
appeal to the confidence enterprise
and patriotism of the people.
"No element is lacking in this new
imperialism of finance, which under
the glamour of patriotism aims to ex­
alt America to the dignity of Great
Britian, Germany, Russia and France
as a world 'power.' Line, by line the
history of the exploitation of defence­
less people is foreshadowed in the pro­
gram that privilege would have us
enter upon.
Imperialism Responsible.
High finance, the making of
munitions at colossal profits,
overseas exploitation, dollar diplo­
macy, and a great navy ready and
willing to demand the open door or
the closed door as the Immediate ad­
vantage may dictate, these are the
elements of financial imperialism that'
have brought Europe to its present
end.
"Only a chance election of a presi­
dent might determine the uses to
which this preparedness would be put,
with the power of high finance, the
control of the press, and the invisible
powers of privilege*'ready at a mo­
ment's notice to urge the. unleashing
Of guns in the, name,.of 'dignity* and
'national honor/
Hie working claw movement to
be moat effective must be conducted
by the workers themselves in the in­
terest of the workers^ It will not
Jp dominated by the so-called in*
lectnals or bntters-inwGompers.
TWO CENTS.
Dante Barton Makes Startling
Charges Against Members of
Present Congress*
PLUNDERERS HAVE BEST
PICKING IN 10 TEARS
Parcel Post Curbed—Big Water
Power Grab and Fake
Rural Credit.
(By Dante Barton.)
WASHINGTON, D. C., May 4.—
Privilege and special interests have
tried to set up complete control and
ownership over this present congress
of the United States. And they have
come mighty near doing it. They will
do it in the next few weeks if the
people, the workers and farmers es­
pecially, don't realize mighty quickly
that while they, the people, are hav­
ing their minds taken up by war talk
and preparations for war, vastly val­
uable privileges and vastly valuable
sums of the public wealth are being
grabbed off right under their noses.
Not for ten years at least have
there been such bold attempts and so
many bold attempts to grab wealth
and power away from the people as
are being perpetrated right now in
the senate and the house of represen­
tatives of this present congress.
Worst In Ten Years.
And not for ten years at least lias
there been a congress with so much
of a disposition to let the plunderers
get away with their plunder.
This is not a guess. Look at this
record: First, look at two things bad
as they can be, that have been actu­
ally done, one by the house and one
by the senate:
The house,, of—representatives
adopted the "Madden Amendment" to
the present parcels post law limiting1
the weight of a parcel'that could be
carried by the United States postal
service to 50 pounds. That took away
the rightful authority which the post­
master general now has to raise the
limit of weight on parcels and pack-'
ages to any amount the government
thought fit. Only the express com­
panies and allied interests wanted
that limit to 50 pounds put on. The
people all wanted to extend the pub­
lic service of carrying things at as
near the bare cost of the service as
possible.
Stabbed Parcel Post.
There was not any possibility of
mistaking the issue there presented,
because there were many speeches
and long debates on the floor of the
house. As Lynn Haines says in his
"Searchlight on Congress," "David
Lewis of Maryland." father of the
parcels post,' led a fruitless fight to
make this branch of the postal ser
.vice on a par with that of the leading
European countries."
Now turn to the senate for another
completed transaction as far as the
senate could complete it, of what the
special interests are getting, or grab­
bing at, at the expense of the public
service and the public wealth:
The indefensible Shields Water"
Power bill, which has passed the sen­
ate and is now in the house of repre­
sentatives of congress, will give away,
forever and substantially .without any
compensation to the people, all the
water power of all the navigable
rivers of the United States. If that*
remaining natural resource of wealth
and power -were developed rightfully,
(if not directly by the government at
(Continued on Page 2.)
"This is the program of prepared­
ness offered 'by those who have mo­
nopolized the railroads and public ser­
vice corporations, who have seized the
iron ore, coal and copper deposits of
the nation, who have enclosed the
public domain and laid their hands
upon the banks and credit resources
of the nation, and who, having ex­
ploited prostrate America, are now
turning wistful eyes to the virgin op­
portunities of weak and' defenceless
peoples in other parts of the world.
•Preserve Democracy.
"Tet these same classes are willing
to bear their share of the cost of pre­
paredness' they cry confiscation when
taxes are suggested on the things they
own no heavier than England and
Germany were carrying in times of
peace. They suggest that the cost
should be borne by a higher tariff
and by Indirect taxes on the things
the people consumes.
"Democracy has a right to insist
that preparedness is not merely a de
mand for private profit that an in­
creased navy is not designed as an
agency for the promotion of overseas
finance, and that militarism shall- not
be the grave, ot the .things "we hold
mostdear.'r
•I
