HERALD:WNG Go to Charch
Apri, 1316...........46166 iues j You Will Find the Aaounc-ts
1915...........26,s7 of the Services of Washitna's 1.ead
GAIN . . . 199,399 "- .,ing Churches on Page 6 Today.
NO. 3488. WEATHER: FAIR. WASHINGTON. D. C.. SATURDAY, MAY 6, 1916. ONE CENT.
VILLA ATTACKS
MEXICAN TOWN,
BORDER HEARS
Bandit Makes Raid on Santa I
Barbara, Juarez Authori
ties Say in Report.
"MERICANS ARE VICTIMS
Mining Men From Interior
Declare Robbers Murder
ed Five U. S. Citizens.
PERSHING WILL TAKE TRAIL
Funston Hears Leader Across Line
Has Positive Information as to
Whereabouts of Wily Pancho.
HI H STANSHURY.
I S S.e national News service.
F:! P'aso. T,. May .5-Pancho Villa.
the pet bandit, the pursuit of whom
the wasington government is willing
t- abandon. assumed his rightful place
.he Mexi.an news today.
The Mcxc an auithorities in Juarez
if fr no rather purpose than to en
n . s.t t:n made dull by the de
' lief i'arranza in approv
S.t-t ihregon agreement
e- th. \ ia tailed the town of
H-l al t Monday.
r-r not it was intended to
, th -n'tre-I State army officials
ire bound by an agreement to
* he hce, c:"" Mexicans added
t several f Villa's hand were
n -nted nn Arnei -an cavalry horses
' ten in the Clumbus raid.
To Surround Bandit.
;gn. Funston gave out an omcial re
port from Gen. Pershing which sur
rounded the information from Mexican
sources with an atmosphere of authen
t.city. Pershing announced that he
had received definite information of
Villa's whereabouts and would make
an effort to surround him. The loca
tico was not given.
No orders have been sent to Gen.
Pershing which would prevent a re- t
newed effort to apprehend the bandit.
This is taken to indicate that Gen. r
Funston is not certain the de facto
government will indorsc'the tentative
agreement reached by Gen. Hugh L.
Scott and Mexican Minister of War
Obregon.
report from Torreon. which was com
icTINt:ED ON PAG.E TWO.
The Only
All-Star
Comic Section
e o couic rction in which
Jfur c-f the featurcs rival one an
-erfor first-page importance, and
the postion which their indi
l meIrit warrants from time to
te-Hairbreaith Harry, the Van
l . l'a. Family and Terry and
Taccl--itl:-trated in four colors.
t
The World
Has Lost
Its Capital
-and a great nation has regained
its own.
You will want to read every word
of "Paris, the World, now Paris,
France." WonderfulIV well illus
trated in four colors in the magazine
section of the Sunday HERALD.
"Patriotism by Incandescence" is
another article that will appeal par
ticularly to the American business
man who "believes in signs."
Then there's the real tragedy of
an American countess (Irma Kilgal
len's pursuit and love of happiness),
with over a half page of photographs
and illustrations.
The seventh installment of "The
Social Pirates." a story with its
own individual climax and conclu
sion. entitled "The Rogue's Ne
imesis," completes one of the best
issues of Washington's best and
only four-color (full newspaper size)
magazine section.
Just a few of the good things to be
found in Sunday's One-cent Herald,
which includes
-A Drvnatic Section
-. Spsorting Section
--A Society Section
--Fraternal and Club Newsj
-Alnd All the News of Alu
the Wo'crld.
FOR ONL. CENT
-Deivered to Your Door
-Or et Your Newsdeer..
-If you order it in advance,
- or get in early, for Sunday
-HE R ALDS alwys sell Out
Great Britain Makes (
in Fou
By Internationa
London, May 5.-Great Britain
her rigorous blockade in four imp
This action, taken on the very
calls upon the United States to b
for the observation of internationa
Lord Robert Cecil, minister o
ment.
The concessiors that Great B
First-Business documents fr<
countries will be placed in a se:
immediate examination and will pr
originally mailed. No guarantee w
be opened, bbt shippers will be ass
Second-A prize court order
steamer Alwina. Condemnation h;
the ship when seized at Falmout
supply coal to German cruisers in
Third-Appeal granted to the
Zamora. The steamer with its car
and later requisitioned by the Bri
Fourth-Immediate release of
trians, taken from the American st
Britain admits itself in the wroni
in the American remonstrance.
I. C. C. WITNESS
TO FACE COURT
hief Counsel Folk Will Ask
Tribunal to Force Milton H.
Smith to Answer Queries.
WAILROAD PRESIDENT
DEFIANT AT HEARING
.-ouisville & Nashville Head Refuses
to Give Facts Concerning Cam
paign Contributions.
The Interstate Commerce Commission
vill institute proceedings In the District
Supreme Court to compel President Mil
on H. Smith. of the Louisville and Nash
ille Railroad. to answer questions pro
,ounded to him by Joseph W. Folk. chief
ounsel of the commission.
On Thursday Smith, upon advice of
ounsel, refused to answer scores of
uestlons, and yesterday he followed the
ame course. The questions relate to
ampaign contribution, and financial
ransactions of the Louisville and Nash
'ille Railroad, and also to the extent and
nanner in which the Louisville and Nash
ille dominates transportation matters in
is territory.
At the conclusion of yesterday's pro
eedingi Cblef Counsel Folk announced
hat fresident Smith would be taken
nto court.
President Smith has replied to many
luestions asked by Counsel Folk, in many
nstan es the replies being typewritten
nd quite lengthy and going into the af
airs of the Louisville and Nashville Rail
cad thirty and forty years ago.
Calls Legislatures Menace.
"Legislative bodies are a menace. and
heir activities are a calamity,' said Mr.
Smith yesterday in the course of an ex
hange of views with Counsel Folk on the
.ibject of governmental regulation of
ailroads.
Counsel Folk resented this declaration.
President Smith." he said, "the an
rehist helleves 'that legislative bodies
.re a rr.enace and their activities a ca
amity.' How do you draw the line be
ween your declaration and belief and
hat of the anarchist?"
"I am not drawing any lines." said
'resident Smith. "and I don't know what
he anarchist believes."
He added that "majority rule creates
he power to confiscate property," and in
nawer to a question by Counsel Folk
aid that he did not see how we were
oing to get around majority rule.
"We cannot hope to have an autocratic
overnment," President Smith continued,
'but we must have plutocrats."
ALLEGED MAIL ROBBERS
INDICTED IN NEW YORK
hree Men Are Charged With Steal
ing $506,000 of Stocks and
Bonds Sent From Capital.
(By the S.a News Service.)
New York, May 5.-On February 26
ant registered mail containing $506,000
worth of bonds and stocks and $8.000
worth of jewelry, en route from Bal
imore and Washington, D. C.. was
tolen from one of the Postal Trans
er Service's burglar-proof mail wag
mns on a Jersey Central ferry boat
ound from Jersey City to Manhattan.
In a trifle over two months postof
ice inspectofs not only rounded up all
he alleged participants In the rob
ery, but raeovered all of the lost
tocks. bonds and jewelry.
Today things were in such definite
hape that United States Attorney Con
ent was able to secure Indictments
gainst the three men who are said
o share equally the responsibility of
he -erime. They are Thomas. Benson,
brieklayer; Louis Windler, his
rather-ln-law, both of whom are now
n the Tomb., and Edward J. Quigley,
rho wa, arrested In Baltimore recent
r with $400,000 worth of securities in
its bag. He has made a full confes
lion, It Is said.
Evemling Eseinw'Uems - Steam.ers
harter: Majestic, 750 capacity. Pr
lays; Gratitude, 300 capacity, daily.
ror* rate. ete., apply Potomac & Chiea
peake Steamboat Co., 5th at. whart.
,oncessions
Vital Blockade Case{.
News Service.
today announced a relaxation of
ortant cases.
day that the German government
ring pressure to bear on England
I law is significant.
F war trade, made this announce
ritain has made follow:
m shippers to and from neutral
arate mailbag, which will receive
)ceed on the ship on which it was
ill be given that this bag will not
uired that there will be no delay.
restores to its owners the Dutch
.d been asked on the ground that
i had been or was attempting to
he Pacific.
owners of the Swedish steamer
go of copper was seized last June
:ish government.
thirty-eight Germans and Aus
amship China was ordered. Great
in regard to the facts outlined
PENSION PLAN
IS INDORSED
House District Committee Fa
vors Rewarding Capital
Policemen and Firemen.
BILLS ORDERED REFRAMED
ON A MORE LIBERAL BASIS
Majority Thought to Favor Also Page
Loan-Shark Bill-Early Consider
ation Planned.
Virtual indorsement of the principle
of adequate pensions for firemen and
policemen was accorded by a majority
of the House District Committee at a
Special meeting last night. The Cary
bill for firemen's pensions and a bill
providing for police pensions were
both referred to a special committee
of three members with instructions to
reframe the measures and report them
back to the full committee at the meet
ing a week from next Tuesday.
The refraining under we instruc
tions of the full committee will call
for changes broadening the scope of
the measures by reducing the mini
mum of service after which pensions
may L' granted for disability.
Consideration of the Page loan shark
bill, amendatory of the present t,
wvas not concliideid, and will tbe taka
up at the next regular meeting. The
bill, however, was amended to per
mit the charging of a rate of three
per cent a month on loans of not more
than $510 and a rate of two per cent
on loans greater than that amount.
The present law, which has driven
pawnbrokers from the District to the
south side of the Highway Bridge.
where the old extortionate rates are
being charged. permits of only a one
per cent rate, too low to make the
business profitable. Indications were
last night that of the twelve members
present, a majority favored the amend
ments suggested.
Representative Johnson, chairman of
the District Committee, and Represen
tatives Burke and Cary, of Wisconsin.
were appointed to reframe the police
and firemen's pension bills.
Chairman Johnson did not commit
himself on the merits of the proposed
legislation, but gave the committee the
benefit of his long experience with va
rious bills looking to such legislation,
and It was generally understood that
the chairman approved the two bills in
principle and was willing to report out
legislation along such lines as met his
approval.
PERKINS WILLING TO BE
MARTYR FOR ROOSEVELT
Financier Would Quit Politics, He
Says. If It Would Help to Re
unite Two Parties.
(By the Son News Service.)
New York, May 5.-George W. Perkins,
chairman of the executive committee of
the Progressive party, has written a let
ter to S. A. Perkins, a member of the
executive committee of the Republican
national committee, hut not a relative of
George W., In which he says that the
Republican national convention can go
rIght ahead and nominate Col. Roosevelt
for the Presidency without havIng any
fears that the Progressive party will
want everything in sight, just as soon
as the colonel gets into theW hite House.
"George W. says to 8. A. that the Re
public mas need slave no *fear of seeIng
"Gea-rge W. Perkins, Secretary of the
Treasury." in the list of President Roose
velt's Cabinet appointments. Further
more, the chairman of the executive
committee of the Progressive party says
that if his complete elimination from
polities would be helpful in bringing the
Republicans and the ProgressIves to
gether once more he wouldn't hesitate a
minute in getting out.
cOmmina Winner in Nebraska.
LIncoln. Neb.. May 5.--The complete
official vote at the Nebraska pri
maries give Cummins nearly 5.500 ma
jority for Pr'esident. The vote: Cum
mins, 30.290; Ford. 26,614: Hughes,
15,410; Estabrook, 8.132; Rosa, 5.506;
Raoavelt.- 1.74,
HOGAN TICKET
BELIEVED TO
BE IN LEAD
Charges of Ballot-Box Stuff
ing Prevent Counting of
Votes-Riots Averted.
JUDGE IS ASSAULTED
Crowd Hoots at Members of
Elections Board-Police
Rescue Ballot Box.
VOTERS TAKEN TO LOCK-UP
Hogan Declares Election Gigantic
Fraud-Two Thousand Votes in
Box Before Poll Opens.
Thou-h the votes caait in yesterday's
primary for delegates to the Republican
national convention will not be counted
intil early next week, the few ballot
boxes opened and counted last evening
iindieated Frank J. lHnan and Dr. Ed
ward Williston to he the leaders.
The declsIon to defer the counting of
toe ballots came after two hours of con
ference between the members of the re
.rning hoard and representatives of the
three tickets. Several of the boxes were
opened and looked into by the conferes,
tut no attempt to tally the hallots was
made.
After the last box had been deposited
with 'harl's Gertman and Frederic
rouglas, two members of the board, the
room was ordered cleared. As Chairman
Charles Linkins, of the election board,
.stepped from Mr. Gertman's office, In the
Century Building. 41 Fifth street north
west, several alleged adherents of Mr.
Itogan attacked him. Three policemen
heat them back, and Mr. Linkins was
escorted to a room. where he remained
until after the crowded corridors were
cleared, two hours later. The crowd also
spoke ill-feeling toward Jesse Foster, a
meroper of the elections hoard, but the
policemen protected him.
mrges Ballot stamag.
Following thahort session of the re
turning board, its members, who pre
viocslv had riled that the canaldates
could not he present when the vote was
counted. scot for them, and they were
allowed to set through the conference.
When the board adjourned. Mr. Horan
made a spec. h to hi. adherents who
thronged the corridor, stating that yes
terda, ': elction was one of the great
est fraule - committed in the Dis
tri-I, but that he had agreed to meet
with the returning hoard when t1e can
vas Is male in order to < he'k i their
retur-ns wit: thc figure, he has rarelved
Irom h ' . r, tresrntaties at the
p dls Iesterdac
'harges of hall".-h v striinz ni ere
mail. t Mr. Hogan. iiho rsert' d that
in one pr, -il-t th ' :,, were, at last -:1.5
\ot's ia the l-x fo- rie of the opptAiamc
tekets tefoire 1 o-! rk. ihen the ;,.
were opened.
?Mr. Ilogan ,Ia m' that I" ch ild hit,
won tby approxiimately .: 1 a over the
Miller-tha;i ticket and I-y ln to 1 over
the tradshaw-larshall ticket.
The Fort Slevense dItriot box shimed
Hogan-Williston to have carried that se, -
tion by an overwhelming vote, it stand
ing :. for them. 2 for Bradshaw-Marshall
and none for Miller-Chase. Hogan said.
Riot Nurrowly A-erted.
A riot was narrowly avoided between
the progressive and old guard elements
in Hillsdale, near Anacostia, last night.
when a dispute arose between Attor
ney Ricks, representing the Miller-Chase
faction, and Whiteield McKinley, one of
the Hogan ticket Judges of election. Ar
cording to the police, who interfered in
time to preserve order and save the
ballot box, a crowd had gathered in
front of Douglas Hall, Nichols avenue
and Howard road, when the polls closed.
and as McKinley left the building bear
ing the sealed box, he was accosted by
Rieks, who demansdd the result of tie
vote. The police say McKinley wouldn't
tell him and an exchange of words fol
lowed.
Sargeant Ready, who was standing
near, grabbed the sealed box and car
ried it off, while the rest of the force
restored order among the voters, who
had gathered and were taking sides.
Things were nuieted and McKinley and
Ricks and the ballot box were taken to
the Eleventh precinct together. Later
the box was taken to the McGill Build
ing in hA street.
Michigan for Roosevelt.
Grand Rapids. Mich., May 5.--Michi
gan's thtrty Progreessve delegates will go
to Chicago June 7, determined to nomi
nate Theodore Eioosev'elt on the Bull
Moceea ticket if the Republicans choose
anyone else, according to A. EwIng, of
this city, leader of the State Progressive
party.
481-Pound Woman Dies.
L~a Crosse. Wii. May 5.-Miss Irma
Dale, aged 20, believed to be the largest
woman In Wisconsin. was found dead in
her bed at the home of her father, Harry
Dale, Council Bay. Death was caused,
phymicians said, from heart disease. She
weighed 481 pounds.
Quiekest seriiee te Baltimor.
Baltimore and Ohio "Every Hour on
the Hour." 81.10 Saturdays and iS-a
5ars, Other dayre 11.71 romad triD.---A
Germany Defends
Her Warfare On
Neutrals at Sea
MADE PLEAS FOR PEACE
"The German government,
reetelos of Germany's strength,
twice within the last few
months, mnomeed before the
world Its readjiess to make
peace on a basa safeguarding
Germany's ital interests. ths
Indieating that It I. Ot Ger
many's fault if peace is still
withheld from the nations of
Europe."
(From German note.)
Germany's reply to the note of the
United States defends Germany's sub
marine warfare.
Germany does not regard the reply as
final. In the response the opportunity Is
asked to make further representations
to the United States, particularly in re
:ard to the Susses.
The note declares that the German gov
ernment has restricted her submarine
activities to her own disadvantage and
to the advantage of the allies, adding
"No such consideration has ever been
shown neutrals by Great Britain and her
The contention of the imperial Ger
man government is that the submarine
narfare of this nation has alwayve been
''onducted with regard to the rules of
war.
Text of the Note.
The following in the text of the Ger
man reply:
"The undersigned on behalf of the im
perial government has the honor to pre
sent to his Exe:rncy, the Ambassador
of the T'nited States James W. Gerard.
the following reply to the note of April
?o. regarding the conduct of German sub
marine warfare.
"The German government handed over
to the proper naval tuthorities for fur
ther investigation evidence concerning
the Sussex as communicated by the gov
ernment of the United States.
"Judging by the results that investi
gation hitherto yielded, the German gov
ernment is alive to the possibility that
the ship mentioned in the note of April
10 as being torpedoed by a German sub
marine is actually identical with the
Sussex.
"The German government begn to re
serve further comm.rnications on the
matter unfi m rtain posts are ascertain
ed which are of iiisive importanie for
estahishing the enomlete fats in the
'Should it turn out that the comoman
der of the submarine was wrong in
assuming the vessel (the Sussexi to be
a man-of-war the tkrman government
will not fail to draw the consequence re
sulting therefrom.
Would Make A.menda.
(By the foregoing sentence the German
government guarantees to macks amen-i
it would deem proper ender the cireum
stances.I
"In ore,'ion with th - e of the
Sussex. the tnited States made a .cries
Germans Driven
Back by French
Bombardment and Infantry
Attacks Fail to Shake
Verdun's Defenders.
(By the sait Newa !ersice.l
Paris. May .-The German attempt to
occupy Hill "(4. the important height be
tween the Bols d'Avoeourt on 1the west,
and Le Mnrt Homme, on the eat. was
renewed early last evenin. The bom
bardment which preceded the attack was
of extreme violence, and the infantry as
tult seas made in force.
A footing at some points in the French
advanced trenches was sce u,-I by the
attackers, who, however. were repulsed
along the greater part of the front of the
assa It.
Today the hotnbardmnt on the west
bank of the Meuse rttinued with in
creasing violence in the sectors ir Hill
'04, the Bois d'A voiourt, and the Bois des
C'aurettes. There was continuous bom
bardment on the east bank of the river
but here the tire showed less violence.
It is stated here today that the recent
french attacks against the German posi
tions in the rector of Le Mort Homme
has cleared the Germans from Hill Ztr.
which they had occupied.
Mine Agreement Signed.
Philadelphia, May 5.--At a meeting in
the ofices of W. J. Richards, president
of the P'hiladelphia and Reading Coal and
iron Company, today, the representatives
of the miners and operators signed the
agreement reached in New York a week
ago.
Threatened Strike Averted.
New York. May 5.-The threatened
strike of 5.000 telegraphers ~nd signal
men of the New York Cenitral Railroad
today was averted for the time being ty
the accepotance of an over of Federal
mediation.
China Captives to Go Free.
London, May 5.-The British govern
ment today gave ord-rs for the release
of thirty-eight men takern imm the Amer
lean steamship China by a Brittash
cruiser while en route frotn Shanghai to
Saa Franciss.
DANGER OF BREAK
NOW LESS ACUTE,
CAPITAL BELIEVES
Although President Reserves Decision,
Indications Are for Reopening
Diplom- tic Parley.
SHARP WORDS DISCOU$TED
New Orders to Kaiser's Submarine Com
manders Expected at Least to Remove
Menace to American Lives.
Though President Wilson is reserving decision until he receives the
offiicial text, there were many indications last night that the German reply
to the American note would avert the danger of an immediate diplomatic
break.
The German note, though unsatisfactory in more ways than one, ap
parently meets the President's basic demand that Germany "immediately
declare and effect an abandonment of present methods of submarine war
fare."
NEW ORDERS TO COMANDERS.
German submarine commanders have been ordered to conduct their
warfare against merchantmen "in accordance with the general principles of
visit and search recognized by international law." And these orders, ac
cording to the note, are in effect now.
The fact that Germany threatens to withdraw them unless the United
States obtains concessions from Great Britain relative to the blockade is
not regarded as necessarily vitiating Germany's concession to the American
demand.
Meme" to Lives semosed.
NOTE PLEASES ' t x
krnw how to deal with this threat should
THE GERMANS heput into xuon In n
tieth ubmarine menace to noncon,
hatantas lives Is at least temporarty
eliminnated and this is the object for
Gratification Felt in Berlin which the President ha" bee n strar;ing
Over Way Kaiser Han- it is too ear y to predict with certainty
that the President will aonapt this con
died Situation. -eaion on itL fae alue, hit indication.
Ptrongy rnt-t that way. The President
received the German reply. as cabled by
DECIDED TENSION STILL - ri., aspociattons from Berlin, jut te
IN ATMOSPHERE, HOWEVER r the Cabint meeting le read it
Ihis advisors anld the Cabinet dlacsped
.t for ne-ar'sy two hoars
lBy the u. %ews %erslere.s
Brill . ia .r\mtrrdam. Mayp -The Sharp Words Dlae..teg,
plubti-atn of termanri reply to T unfavorable Impres inn made by
i 'esident Wl-on-s demands with ref- I rp -or-s ir. the r'-' m nary pol'
crence to rmrnar:ne warfare was re- rno the note was offset by the out,
ceived here with geneial giat .tca:;on. .'r,. the o r to submarine com.
The cons. nus of o n in S- rS which ind<;er-d the spec-fe con
r--seioaF which th~e importsave Cemmeet
many today w as that the German e .
unqualtedly yield:ng as it does to the
American demand to conform the dn, tei mut-, of the 'erht
aniititthin e-s'ace of the nlotm or. the eroundi the: it
tr-boat ,erampatg to the inth ere i
neutral-. makes it tmposilbe for the
1-n ted States to realize its thrrat to w : s i-- ia r Pr'1 not
hdip.iuattc rTi o s in<t,.dent- l t i r d
it is agreed her. that the note n iVW r it fal- r.' t . the-e
:rnm ves aI doubts that a Cploma:ne t h""
ni-siat. 1-.ib w,,.- rnst in--nt
hreai, would mean, a, t r . , rmn'
iscon-erued. a war bet-, n th. tw ta
,ountrrc, and that the <;- 'man gos
ci lm tt. ty tnakinrg it.- ones~m
rr rn"nt, 1.v tralin it roncesn-.' h'r r- i !sate tthat r, :.,.. .rte ,-n
h:: signified its urgent d'.r. t~ Vic- i rte. e-n .. ~ h,
i it ouch a catastrophe. -ti at thie re the ieaban meetg r d
co-t of restricting the aubir~i.t r w t - Reopen. teal ntsu.
fare to all extetit srhu-h nas.. crtcs Ti-s, is. I------f. , ,, .n -
pount out rart *--r> b , fu a ippr - ii. forn nhat two . ous..
craTed anunfahere exv r let in reann made by
Press commn today oas on l cg, t ha inos ..w offt by- t h
meager and extr rnti-ly ir,' .:ervat se. mane I - ,-. xis, ct \\1"1hd m d
principally. it is believed. -Cause -e of that i er the suba- rin c -
the governments iandtrt iin d he n
Urtited tates time to state Its plot t r irto ao. -,h .i."
tion towsrard the German note ,i ra, v nm, n . -. ,t
While rio one here seriously expects %,it t'-a ito, :i.> ,, ,;-s ri ,- r
a brea, there is till a dee-ded ten;on .. Hh - -i -. r I u n t ta the
in the atmosphere pendingt- .t ate. . tr u e ta - e f n t n he - , ru t i
and 1oe-nt~ official. ni-. ftomi l n- i-' ,ry nntw t mtn -h rg th m cn a- n i n
ington as to how the note is ain pted J t cvat arot the ua atr nd
there. The general view is that if 'Ilt ti,. ti ns t trr. t .,, . d .
President Wilson sioujld after ai be In--ihuss te i-t - - a ''
intent upon a rupture. i rill nitie th sit;. taters, tt . ,
Sunda rhictins the subtr r of ,.n _ itt a- -wa,.r-t ,
the Lt ainia d xater n a<d Ir a the ny. r, t+ -
Prel iKlt the lint -e of thos doyrwra cnl
LONDON SAYS SULLIVAN masn, l~oopholes ofEcae
IS "NOT IN CUSTODY." The- btm y m. nrIv ahtt
- - -aC'rp. ^n"i n n
Oficial Statement Further Declares Is r sri to I. ale r,: r, -
Lhigveneto'B Arshteda overmt.t ofaethrta
tiondn towad thet Gema ocal tate dto nSros h~ao en
thatlaes no onelia herm eruy Axertsni obfji noehreudrfjd
a i i e r b r e a th e D oma I c , i s'atll ai dh ad e teh en i m p e ta t r e nts
in ctoder pecin. eat ei nsr of h
Irnd prsinly of dic t n iels fro Wa in m nine o hih-so tn
itons aso owal taenteta t i Jac n the Pesdrtuilntfe tibrit
tere. a Tuh, gednoandie in theatd stdeif mes et hihsrt
Presiden Wilsonehouldaafernalhtb
binn upan a rutur. is ill comea paet>teGra solno h
unday.e thich s Joh aierhary ofia oit tteete ueiim
ithehsLuanitaneiaa' haasuter.d
Ofhockof StaemetFther~ Declar.eds t lea umrn afr s h
(N e ok a lae -aiMr. Nes Srv hoethtthice.4Paeawltn~ a
mthJaer of C ulianSag thre Aecanojtuo ra rianaadn t
wMiniter tho th leDominiauRepubl tfea bosde
cdnot nearstosi coneteon wath thet
Wrisdauprishi. ads onot ea to bedasrsSnt epTr.
Iis also omcn il state, th at..o-n e a --heSnNw o
dafy. formtier Ame-ricanhe dosth tGen- srfcrsdtrog ipea
erirllat Munsth.-dre nfttlandKaisIreland.
shock ofe Se' ethe .o ill Moter. Iasoty1' ett aaaUgi
Wednsday night.ttachedfoundheead nahed
in hr hoe inEas Orage. . J. to
