Euentnn
iJittytr
IGHT
NIGHT
EXTRA
EXTRA
:crr
0.-NO. 802
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, MAY (J, 101 G.
CofTlIODT, 1010, It TBI FCBUO LXCOU COUMKt.
PRICE ONE CENT
0FPEACEJ
IMS IN NOTE
OOATWAli
ripans in Berlin . Be-
& Wilson Has Chance
to End tnfe
fttoT OPPORTUNITY"
Ln!nc. It Is Believed, for
Ariel House to Revisit
European Capitals
Py CARL W. AOKERMAN t
If' Till ITT May B.4 'American tiiyiun
WImIa out today tho importance
s-n...-- rnntu ned In Ger-
jC'Sty to the American note and
s&foe belief that President Wilson
S??' Vn-at opportunity to bring
i to an .early end.
Z,.Mrdns oven suggested that the
rina for Colonel House to re-
Efsropr.an capitals.
WEOUAnD INTERESTS.
. &riln reply contained the follow-
nrfrences .to peace:
?X4e German Government, con
fe'rT' - ni,nv,n Htrenirth. twice
if the last few months announced
1 the worm lis rcnuiiieBo iu
ice on a oasis naicguarums
, vital Interests, thus Indl- ,
. it'.f it in not Germany's fault
Set Is bUU withhold from tho
.of Europe.
OSPAPEKS PRAISE REPLY.
(German newspapers today generally
the German rcpiy unu expreoocu
-iit'lt would Batlsfy both Presl-
OaM anil the American people. No
livwtth' adverse criticism of the
unI.Altiii nnnanrA.1
f iwwipapers generally admlteed that
I would Ilgiu vigorously ukuiubi.
Mrt by America to curtail her
Sag operations. 'Thoy point out
(blockade is as. vaiuauie a weapon
Kind as la tho submarines to" Ger-
Ecina that It will require unusual
(r.frim the united states to rorco
Rlsh Government to return to strict
knee with the principles, of intcr
t) law.
r'HOPE FOR SETTLEMENT.
it" jkgeblatt, edited by (-Theodore
twhd has steadfastly urged a con
toy bolloy toward America, expesscd
l iipe today that the note, would nc-
npne at purpose, rno ixKni Anzteger
lrltropfU the note would satlsry the
Moan, people and Congress, even If
ft IiTW satisfy President Wilson. The
sasItchW iung empnaslzed the German
jute thit' President Wilson had dls-
t.Ytd(i"oae-slded neutrality, but added
ttaM In her reply! Germany made an honest
'Ma 4ftMU!t.nrlflvnr tr nvnlri n tirnalr
$Cksnwllor yon Bethmnn-Hollweg,.For-
SSA Secfetarv VDn .Tntrnnr. Tlrtrtnp Vrif-
'S' 'ter.' Finance : Admiral Ca-
wBfcwsor to urana Admiral von
j0ttiA several others spoke nt the.
i rwion or tne iteicnstag commit-
RfVhlCh thtt nntA flnd iht innnnt
iJnntA .1... f.. ...... . . .-,..
PWfcre, fully explained.
BW' : ' -'
W PAPERS SEE PEACE
'MOVE IN BERLIN'S- NQTE
jReply to U. S. Was Ingenious
Rjw.itH lq wpen iN.egotiations
RrrEnDAir. May . Dutch news
ies express the opinion that the Ger-pr-liote
to the United States was' an
.uu3 aevice to open the way for
e Perot atlons. Germ.tnv hianiniic.
Sr" j"" are v'tal concessions, but
,wrew me united States to exact
eeselons from T?m,iiin
K"11.!?? a.n 0I,enln? wege Germany
J .. tu'"" ana Propose the
""" mediator to restore
Whether or not h nil.. ...m
t pace proposals Is, doubtful, but
i ViiLHU . llon nD0Ut Germany's
' In the nnt nf ..o.j... ... '
ICoverpwent dennltely announced that
r.,.. J,eo H readiness to
Pce and that It U still ready.
SON TO DECIDE WHKTiran
P NOT QERMANY HAS MET
D, 8., SQUARELY ON'U-BOATS
E W . tl rep y before hlml
Son whi.n ls fomlatlng his de
Rbnerl2. ih.'r .r not Q'rmany has
America, squarely on the submarlno
f0?LtcuSd!Spi.,.c.t!!1
ffla.!!wt'pwwn;"s:
With nlJ: nffer ot an Immediate
2h?.Tn)r has P"8d, This
itCr. L? general approval of
". ina Cabinet nnri n.i,.. . ...i
jt"rrams received at th whit.
5 "uu)g tha nlh i. .'.
Mil,B"5AhJt Germany
. a break unless aha falls n
' r promise. "
aV may be said today to be
P "" r'" T C" M
CHE WEATHER
t4mlJdenVI!'MV,' been olDB "round
' .om ad"y:"ni?A'ca"on
UwlnT4 Wt few. tET SS
JTOaVa In., ii. . " Know how
iM??? .,.lt.th?n l los a dollar
OKLAHOMA BREAKS RECORD FOR OUTFITTING AND LOADING
i orceround, seamen are shown brineinp; aboard tho contents of 63 boxcars, tho job being completed
in 43 hours, including the placing of furnishings. Tho previous record for loading was four and a hnlf
days, 'held by tho Utah. The ship opposite is tho South Carolina. In tho background is tho marine
transport in courso of construction.
PENROSE OUT .
TO CRUMBLE
VARE POWER
Senator Declares War of
Extermination Against
' Downtown Leaders
READY TO OUST MAYOR
Favors "Ripper" Bill to Remove
Executive Assails McNichol
and Brumbaugh
RAIDERS MAKE
BIG SEIZURE OF
. ILLEGAL DRUGS
Cocaine, Heroin and Other
Narcotics Valued at
- $5000 Confiscated
MAY IMPLICATE DOCTORS
cnderloin Raiders
Seize $5000 in Drugs
3000 jtrulns morpldne. Talue to "dope"
peddler. ,.: $800
2500 ptrnlnn rocnlnr, value to "dope"
prddlrr , "00
Two lump can opium, pure, Tender
loin value 200
Three AultcuHes.. uazenn of Rtnall and
lane narKimes ill leu mm Heroin
a other "dope, "toyM." oplun
fttlll ll.lirr MUK7, IUJHi MIMIIII1
aynnU, "sniffer" and nypenlermlo
neeHIfK. and tery line unci valuable
rnleai valued In all, If old lecally. 3300
Total Tenderloin value.
EIGHTH OF IRISH
CHIEFS EXECUTED
AT DAWN TODAY
Major John McBride, Hus
band of Irish "Joan of
Arc," Faces Firing
Squad
TWO GET LIFE-TERMS
4w. -.
U. S. TROOPS KILL
42 VILLISTAS IN.
MEXICAN FIGHT
Major Howze's Detachment
Clashes With Strong
Band' of Outlaws
NO AMERICANS SLAIN
SSOOO,
Government,- State and city officials early
today mado four raids with a.utomatc
precision which resulted In the selzuro
of J5000 worth ot cocaine, morphine,
opium and heroin, tho largest amount yet
sozed by those enforcing the Harrison act
In this city, and In the' arrest of live pris
oners, one of whom Is a woman.
Tho raids, which wera made at a time
when things seemed peaceful and quiet,
besides belnij- the most Important yet un
dertaken, are likely to bo far reaching In
.their results. i
Philadelphia, It was learned, Is regarded
by Government authorities as the hot
bed of tho Illegal "dope" tradlc throughout
the wholo, country, and expert chemists
and "dope" experts nreTh this city from
San Francisco, Chicago and Kansas City,
to co-operate In the Government crusade
to stamp It out, ,
It ls understood that one or more
physicians nro to be Implicated as a direct
result of today's raid. By the wholesale
Ailing of prescriptions they have made It
possible for a tew privileged "dope" ped
dlers, Xo effect almost a monopoly of the
Illegal Iralllc.
Those arrested were: Robert Martin
and Thomas Itowan, of 246 North 10th
street; John Sing, 911 Haco street ; Joseph
Doyle, of Summer and 13th streets, and
May Dalton, ot 1315 Quarry street. The
prisoners were taken to the Federal
Building today, and 'will be arraigned be
fore' United States Commissioner Howard
M. Long. They spent . tho night In. the
11th and Winter streets police Btatlon.
Martin was held under ?S50O ball for
court. Itowan also was held for court
under $100. Doyle was held for court
under 1600 hall. Sing and May Dalton,
the girl, .were held under J 500 bait each
for further hearings.
The raid at, 246 North 10th street was
by far the most Important of the four. It
was filled with thrills, which were cli
maxed only by the rich "dope" haul made
there. In all nearly $6000 worth was
taken. It filled three suitcases, a score of
large and smajr packages, complete lay
outs, needles, quills, toys, sniffers and
minute scales, such as are used by expert
dope peddlers, and which' are said to be
marvels of human Ingenuity.
These in charge of the raid were Ralph
H. Oyler, special agent of the Internal
Revenue Department: Deputy. Collector
Joseph McDevltt., Cql. Will Beach and
N ; fifyBi '
fa Wm - IPlB' f
U IK III lilWn Jo
W J&t&A 'PHP J
I mm. mUf '
I 'win
MAUD GONNE
The "Irish Joan of Arc," whoso
former husband, Mayor John Mc
Bride, has been shot by an Eng
lish firinfr Bquad. She and her
husband lectured in this country
in 1905. Lord Kitchener is said
to have been one of her admirers.
wSr.S,,S!SS'lJ!L'-ih.
?". It Was a hill . .'" nH
r iSJSS, "" . "Wrtwry short
t.Hnm iLS-HS5 ,',era the
I Ul Wnat It Was that W
PhUadMlnht- .. . ...
.VSX
BBP?ffiSrw-
r rv
-iAiKomS
' 'S. utwZrT..-r.Tr - r
S"?J.Phi?.-reiol. cffStniiS.
yaSSpjS. - iwuimu. w in
! m ma rii
Continued on Fafe Three, Column Three
METHODISTS BALK
AT TAFT LECTURE
Mutterrings in Conference be
cause Fprmer President Ve-
toed Liquor Shipping Bill
SARATOGA SPRINGS. N- Y.. May 6.
A smoldering flame of protest which
threatened to burst Into a conflagration
on the floor of the Methodist iKplscopal
general conference against the appearance
of former1 President-Taft, who; Is scheduled
to lecture, before the conference later in
the montht was In; evidence today,
'Mutterings against the committee on en
tertainment, which, Invited Mr. Taft to
peak before, (he body, could be heard in
th? porHdore of the hotels and about the
convention hall.
This opposition against Mr- Taft .wss
confined principally to delegates from' tht
Wet and the central "West and to- mem
bers of the Antl-galoon League, who de
clared that the former President, by bis
veto, of Uia Interstate liquor shipment bill,
disregarded the wlnhea of tha moral ele
ment. The, general conference of 190S and
1913 went on record for this bill, which
, May Be Ferry Suicide's Body
The body of ft woman who, It Is be-.
Ueved, Jumped from ft ferryboat near the
Kalghn avenue slip. In Camden, more' than
a month ago. was found floating la the
Delaware River at qiqucester. several
mites below JCalStin avenue. The body is
at the Camden Morgue, awaiting a
claimant. The body was clothed In a
bla.de coat dark skirt and white waist
This tallies exactly with ths description
was dlJi4d to protect prohibition States I of the clothing of the woman, who leaned
. ., . ' .. '. . '. . .. I."- .......-.. ... . t '
I aiw saaewns ironj aquvr neiog UDippfa is i iroiii ia ierrjccai, as givsn oy eye-wK
DUBLIN, May, 6. Major John McBride,
Sinn Fein leader, the eighth revolu
tionary chief to beexecuted, was shot to
death at dawn today. It was officially an
nounced. .
Two others sentenced to die obtained
commutation of their sentences to life Im
prisonment. The i folio wing official statement as to
the findings of the court-martial was Is
sued; . .
"Thlrty-slx rebels were court-martialed
on Friday,
"Thera was official confirmation of only
three cases, however. These were the
cases of Thomas Hunter, John McBride
and William Cosgrave, who had been sen
tenced to death.1 The sentences of Hunter
and Cosgrave were commuted to penal
servitude for life by the general officer
commanding. John McBride was shot
this morning.
"Edward Duggan, Pierce Beasley and
Joseph McGulnness have been sentenced
to three years each.
Joseph Plunkctt. who was among the
second batch of Irish leaders killed by
a firing squad, was married In prison Just
before his execution. Ills bride was
Grace Glfford, a sister to Mrs, Thomas
MqcPonagn. Mrs. Macuonaghn husband
was executed by a firing squad early In
the week, along, with P. 11. Pearse, the
provisional president of the Irish re
public, and Thomas J. Clarke, a Blgner
nf thn Declaration of IndenanrlAnr-A
Edward Daly, Michael O'lianrahan and
William Pearse were sentenced to death
and shot together with Plunkett Thursday
morning, after the sentence had been con
firmed by the general commandlng-ln-ehlef.
Pearse was a brother of Patrick
Henry Pearse, Provisional President of
the republic, who was executed earlier in
tha week.
Plunkett, Daly, Pearse and O'lianrahan
were all young men, none of them being
much over 30 years old. They were all
of th'em highly Intellectual and were In
clined to be rather dreamers than prac
tical men oi anairs.
WEXFQRD, Ireland, May 6,, One hun
dred and thirty Irish Insurgents have been
arrested In Wexford County by the Brlt-
ADVANCB BASE AMERICAN PUNI
TIVE EXPEDITION, near San Antonio,
Mex., Mny B, via wireless to Columbus,
N. M., May 6. Major Howz, with a col
umn of 210 mVn of the 11th Cavalry, to.
day mot and "defeated a largo force of
Vllllstas, under Generals Domlngue nnd
Acosta, killing 42 of the bandltB and scat
tering tho remainder.
Tho official report of tho battle, which
took place near OJo Azules, wus made by
Major llowzs to Qeneral Pershing- here
dayjig,.., ... -.,
Mnjor Howze s report made no mention
uf how many men tho Mexican command
contained, nor did It glvo the number
of Mexicans wounded. Army men here,
however, think that tho number of
wounded must havo been considerable as
42 were killed. Thoy uro also of tho
opinion that the Americans were outnUnT
berod, as Major Howze's report said "a
large force of Vllllstas." '
Jtfot an -American soldier was wounded,
according to Major Howze's report.
ATTACK A SURPRISE.
The defeated bandlti were the remainder
of the band that was routed eo disastrous
)y by Colonel Dodd's forces of the 7th
Cavalry, at Lemchlc, on April 22. In this
light rafny Mexicans were killed and the
Americans suffered casualties of two killed
and three wounded.
According to tho official report Major.
Howzo's fdrces struck the trail of tho
-..... v.. ,, .u,,u0uujr M.tci iiuuu. iney IOI
lowed It until nightfall without discover
ing the party. Evidences, however, that
the outlaws were not far ahead were gath
ered, and Major Howzo decided to push
on, despite the weariness of his horses and
men.
A" night the command kept steadily
forward. At daybreak, a scout returned
with the Information that the force was
but a mile or so ahead, resting,
The news nut new life in th vnnu
and saddle-sore troopers. They spurred
their horses on and, topping a small rise,
located the bandits.
This was 177 miles south of Cuslhul
arachic, capital of the district of Benito
Juarez.
Tho Mexicans had stopped to rest at
a spring. Their horses antra (oth,,,i
and tho men themselves lay sprawled at
full length In their blankets, apparently
In dead exhaustion. A few sentinels
were nodding oyer their rifles.
The surprise was perfect. Not until tho
horses were almost upon them did the
Mexicans realize what was happening.
VILLISTAS FLEE.
There was a chorus of wild yells and a
concerted dash for the horses. Every
thing was confujion. nnd lnto.lt American
troopers poured a steady Btreanf of lead.
no cumusion quieted down as the
Senator I'rnro.e ilerlnrnt n war of ex
termination nunln.t the Vsren nnd At
tacked Governor DrumlintiRlt tor tils ambi
tion nnd xnlmervleney nnd Attorney Oen-
ernl Frnncl Pluink Drown ns the "evil
KenlUK of the Vnren."
He Included lit political nil"-. Senator
'James 1. McNichol, In n ocntlilng attack
Upon cnitrnctor rule.
He KttKBrMcil n rnmmlflon form of
Rorernnient for Philadelphia, declaring
(lie Itullltt bill plnreH too mlleh power In
(lie hnntli nf (lie Major.
Ho hinted lie would he behind an nt
tempt to oust Mayor Smith from office
throuKh n "ripper bill" when the Legisla
ture meets right month hence.
He flatly declared Governor nrum
linush had withdrawal papVrn ready to
sign to retlro from the presidential con
test, hut was forced to stay In the bitter
factional fight by Ilrown and the Vnres.
Hef'iirged settlement of the liquor ques
tion be left to poputnr rote.
He nssertrd the- police must be taken
out of politics.
He said the Vnrcs ore fighting him
politically because lie refused to support
Congressman William 8. Vnre for Mayor
In 1011.
Ho snld Congressman Vnre Is now
nursing n mnynrnlty boom, nml that the
Smith administration ls pledged to sup
port It.
Ho nttnrkcd the cnndldacy of Charles
A. Ambler for Auditor Clenernl. itssertlnir
that lie i one of the "contractors' ring,"
J. Ilenjamln ntmmlck, who opposed
Penrose, for the nomination for United
Htntes Senator In 1014, sprang a surprise
by indorsing Penrose and declaring for nn
iinlnstriil'ted delegntloii to the Ilcpubllcan
National Convention.
Dlmiulck launched n boom for Fhllander
C. Knox ns thn "favorite son" presidential
candidate, ot Pennsylvania,
tienrge 1). Porter called upon Inde
pendents to line up behind Senator renrose
In the factional fight In order to bring
nbout "reform within the party" under the
Penrose leadership.
An unrelenting fight for tho complete
extermination of tho Vnres from politics
In the cltf nnd State was opened by Sen
ator Penrose in tho sensational speech
which he delivered before several hundred
Independents at tho Bellevuo-Stratford'
last night
The Senator declared war to the finish
against contractor rule. Ho advocated that
the present form of government in Phila
delphia bo changed, as the Bullitt bill ls
obsolete, and suggested a commission form
of government. '
That tho Senator "burned his bridges"
wns the opinion expressed today by most
or inose vno nsteneu to his scathing .ar
raignment of the Vare-Brumbaugh-Smlth
machine last night
Tho bitter fight of 20 years ago was
recalled, and Penrose, assuming the role
QUICK NEWS
BERNSTORFF INVITED TO LUSITANIA MEETING
WASHINGTON, May G. Count von Bernstorf f, German Ambas
sador, and tho attaches of the embassy here today received mi invita
tion to attend a mass-meeting In New York tomorrow evening in
memory of the- victims of the Lusinnia, -which was orpedoed one year
ago tomorrow. The communication was received nt the embassy frera
the American Rights Committee at 2 West 40th street, New York.
The Ambassador said the invitation "woulfl be placed on file."
r. '
.V-
'f..
PENN-DARTMOUTH TRACK RESULTS
. ' 'i
100-yavd dash final Won by Ted Meredith, Penn; second,
Worthington, Dartmouth; third, Kaufman, Penn. Time, 10 1-5 sec.
One-mile run Won by Humphries, Penn; second, Duffy, Dart
mouth; third, Tucker, Dartmouth. Time, 4 mln. 32 4-5 sec.
r
U. S. ARMY AVIATION CHIEF FORMALLY RELIEVED
WASHINGTON, May 6. Lieutenant Colonel Samuel Keber,
United States army Signal Corps, wns formally relieved today ns
chief of tiie aviation section, but was ordered to remain on duty in the
office of the chief signnl officer of the army. , ' '
'J! "-
BRITISH CRUISERS SEIZE SHIP FLYING MEXICAN 'FLAG
'i
WASHINGTON, May G. Capture by British cruise,rs-of the
schooner Leanore, fying the Mexican flag, but .said to be owned by
the German Vice Consul at Guaymas, wns reported to the Navy De
partment by Admiral Winslow at San Diego, Cal., today.
JERSEY MAN SUES SECRETARY,. LANE VvV .
WASHINGTONyNMay,. F. Max Gre'ss, Pitman, N. i'today1
brought suitfor SIO.OOO damages for. alleged illegaliacts of .Secre
tary of the Interior Lane nnd other department officials Jn fallingHo
prevent his disbarment as a pension agent and attorney.-
Continued on rare Fire. Column Two
SHINY HEADGEAR
DIMS SPORTS AT
-FRANKLIN FIELD
"Straw Hat Day" Observed
With a Vengeance at
Athletics Meet
OLD DERBIES DIE HARD
Continued on, Pat Tno. Column Three
J3ftIi ( from v4t ..itaiML
nfuss
Continued on I'aie Two. Column Two
OLD "CAP" CLARK
WEDS HOUSEKEEPER
i
Ceremony- Too Qpck for Him
and He Objects to Ejec
tion' of Reporters
Q)d "Cap" Clark is married, but
peeved.
He was wed this afternoon, to Miss Ida
DeLong. his housekeeper, at the Clark
home, 608 South Reese street But the
ceremony was over all to quickly for the
Captain. He thought, at least, there
would be more fusa about It The Im
portant words which made the couple one
. "tin ujr npinnx-iiKe clergyman,
who said his name was Kelly. He re
fused Jo-say with what church Jie was
connected, and ordered all reporters
chased from tha house. The "Cap" ex
pressed regret at the enforced exodus of
the gentlemen- of the press, and said ke
lhl , "red-h1,ed individual with a
double chin, a checked vest and trousers
acted as ooortender.
Mr. and Mrs, Clark Intended taking a
honeymoon trip to Falrmount Park, but
his rheumatism objected. After the wed
ding the bride and bridegroom started In
to fix up the, house. For the event the
famous llfeaajer wore a red necktie, a
light coat and gray trousera, The bride
waa attired to a, vrfclta shirtwaist and a
dark aku-t Baa Is il. Th , mnfSRr ..
ZS-SsannW w
Bv a Staff Correspondent
FnANKLIN FIELD, May 6.
Straw hats by the thousand dotted this
arena today for the Penn-IIarvard base
ball game, the I'enn-Dartmouth dual track
meet and the Penn-Swarthmore lacrosse
game.
Dy twos and threes, by tens and
twenties, by hundreds and hundreds they
came, filling the tiers of 'seats. They
blazed vhlte In the sun around the
oval. '.hey sparkled and scintillated.
Triumphantly they proclaimed that today
was Straw Hat Day. Henceforth, until
the fogs of autumn descend upon the I
uruwii cm in, jci iiu man wear if nai save
it be or straw,
What mattered It If the Dartmouth and
the Ited and lllue track, heroes grappled
In Penn's first dual meet of the season?
What mattered It If the fast-fleldlng Har
vard baseball nine, wearing the laurels
of last year's Intercollegiate champions,
opened a cannonade against Old Penn
with their bludgeons, while the great
Mahan, with Whitney and Qarrltt, basked
in the admiring gaze of the Crimson fol
lowers? It was Straw Hat Day and all
eyes were upon the straw hats.
And malevolent looks were caet at the
derbies and soft hats of winter. More
than that, from Penn students' throats
barked the war cry. "Get that hat !" and
the crunch of derblgs, dying miserable
deaths, arose on every hand. Destruction
glared from the eyes of the self-appointed
hat censors, and destruction was abroad
In the land. Like the head-hunting Pyaks,
the hat-hunters gloated over the carnage.
He who had $3 or $2 or $1 50, or even
11 wore a straw hat today. He who had
walked up Chestnut street this morning
with- brown felt headgear quickly under
went the necessary metamorphosis before
he showed his face on Franklin Field.
There were sennets. Canton splits, Milan
and Porto Illcan; there were sawtooth
and cable-edges, and pineapple braids and
fancy weaves; from this spot gleamed a
yellow Leghorn; from, that modestly
blushed a, brownish Bangkok.
There was one yedda, hat of tubular
straw of the vintage ot 1811. its wearer
had, for some weeks, neglected his barber
and his tailor, If he had one, presumably
was starving. But It was a straw bat
Persona smothered la heavy winter
suits, but they wore straw hats. They
bad not yet donucd breezy knee under
wear, but they wore straw hats. Thv
went without lunch, but they wore straw
HYDROAEROPLANE COMPLETES ARMY TEST FLIGHT
BALTIMORE, May 0. The big hydroaeroplane wti'lch started
on a trip from Newport News, Va., to Fort McHenry on Thursday,
but was forced to turn back before finishing the journey on account of
adverse weather conditions, succcssfully'made the trip ic-day. It land
ed near the bathing beach there. The trip was made under the su
pervision of the United States army, for which the machine is being
tested.
FRENCH SUBMARINE SINKS AUSTRIAN DESTROYER
ROME, May. G. An Austrian torpedoboat destroyer has"beeh,
sunk In tho lower Adriatic by the French submnrine. Bernoulli!, '
according to a' wireless message today, , ' ." , , ; . . 'A
r mi-
'v
CANADA LIFTS EMBARGO AGAINST U. S. CATTLE
An edict that, it Is believed, will have a. far-reaching effect on unsettled cattl
conditions In this country was issued today by the Canadian Government, accord
ing: to Information received In this city. The order removes tha restric
tions of the Importations of cattla and by-products from "this country into Canada.
One of the reasons for the bar hitherto in force against United States cattle vas
the foot-and-mouth disease prevalent In cattle States; another was tho attack
on tho "Beef Trust" by the British Government, which alleged unwarranted price
increases following the war. The order was taken as an Indication of recent
scarcity ot came in t'anaoa. Large exportatlons to Canada may increase meat
prices In Philadelphia.
COMPTROLLER CALLS FOR BANK STATEMENTS
WASHINGTON, May 6. The Comptroller of the Currency today issued a
call for the condition of the national banks as of the close of business on May 1,
PLAN BILL TO LICENSE ARCHITECTS OP STATE
A bill providing for the licensing of all architects in Pennsylvania will bo
Introduqed at the next session of tho Legislature. Thla ,was decided today at
the eighth annual convention of the Pennsylvania State Association of the Amer
ican Institute of Architects at the Hotel Adelphla. The blU will provide for the
creation of a State Board of Architects, which will be similar In its functions to
the State Medical Board and the board which examines applicants for tho prac
tice of law. At present any person, whether or not he bos proper training, caa
set "P W a architect. Only Ave States ha,ve legislation such as. ls provided in
tho bill framed by the Pennsylvania association. Tho bill approved today was
framed by a committee composed ot members of three chapters of the Penn
sylvania, association the Philadelphia Chapter. Pittsburgh Chapter andho
Southern Pennsylvania' Chapter. K' .
BRITISH WOUNDED AT KUT EXCHANGED
LONDON. May 6. A British communication Issued last night says: UU
tenant General Sir Percy Lake reports under date of May 3 that tho military
situation is unchanged. Tho arrival of the first batch of sick and wounded, ta
hats. They wor straw hats even if tho 1 M'e,Aml trecenuy excnanea by the British nfter a loMr sttge) It'iuMtti
sHsC- jtfere- Sfttof wl.th,6, lpX, Jhe -corps, pommaofisr, l " ' ".
4
i
4
a
v , -si
