BRING IN YOUR WANT
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. M.
Early Delivery of Sunday Want Ads In
Correct Classification
sures
AIL SORTS OF ADS FOR
All SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
06th year
VOhVMK Oft
M Mil Kit 12ft
iuchmond, va., saturday, may (5, 191(5. ?twelve pages
rsmt"*?fair
price, two cents.
CURANZA ANXIOUS
FOR U. S. TROOPS
TO LEAVE MEXICO
Holds to Opinion That Early
Date for Withdrawal
Should Be Set.
PREVENTS FINAL SIGNING
OF TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
Mcxlcan Officials at El Paso
Spend Day Trying to Per- i
suade Him to Yield.
FEW DETAILS NOT ASSENTED TO
r?>rshlng Rends Mossagc to l*'nn??t?n
Thai lie lias Loratrri
Villa.
FX PASO, TKX .. May 5 ?'Telegraphic
exchanges b?twci>n General Obregon !
and General Carranza h*it 11>*? tenta
tive agreement for American arid Mex
ican co-operation in the scattering of
Villa bandits have born completed. it
nas said to-night. If said otior.t I
Obregon will hold bis next con ferem:*
with General Scott to-inorrow, and
that a protocol covering nn agreement
th?n will bp drawn up
It had been expected ihat the final
meeting would take place to-day. but
at the last moment it was learned that
General Carr.nr/.a still held to the opin
ion that the American troops should
pet a. definite at:d early 'late for with
drawal. A litre part of to-day was
*a!d to have been spent b> lbe Moj.
I'-an officials here :n eonvlr.clnc tbc
first chief that the tentative agree
ment should be adhered to In the main
Tlicre still are a few details not yet
assented to by General t'arruiiza. and
these. It Is understood. will have to be
threshed out at the next meeting be
tween Generate S-ott ?t ? ? I Obreuon
The only event of the day <?n the
American side of ihe Uio Grande was
General Kunstnn's receipt of a message
from General Pershing. which sahl that
Villa bad been located The sriKr.il
gave no detail: . e.\< ?-pt ay that lie
was not :< great distant e fr?>m the !>ot
where the bandit was supposed to be
Ofllcials were inclined |.. tl. i k there
was a chance that the expedtt ionary
l otnniander might ? ???n ???? in t ii< h
with Villa hnndits
Simultaneous!) > nne ? i ? to
.lua ret that Villa had I i' , see 11 .it
Santiago Pap.istiuiaro. fai ? ? i?It ? > f an*
locality wh'-i" thvie an
t roops
\\ m.m>> \\\ \i i > \nrii i:
of ? \ri'iio\ \i,
WASHINGTON. May ft -Publication
of the Scott-Obregon t?g reenter t for
co-operative action acain.t bandits in
Mexico still awaited to-night formal
notification that it has been approved
by General Carranza President Wil
son will make tt public as soon as
word of Its acceptance by th<> de facto j
povernment reached him, either from
Mexico City or from General Scott at I
Kl Paso.
The War Department had only rou
tine reports from the border, but Sec
retary Baker said unofficial advices In
dicated a better feeling among the
Mexicans since the military conference
was arranged
Advices to the .^t.ito I >epart meut re
ported that rail communication be
tween Vera Cruz and Mexico t'ity had
been interrupted since May 1. No ex
planation was given.
The Mexican embassy received no
word during the day regarding the
border situation, and no step was
taken by Eliseo Arredondo, amhas- ,
sador-destenate. toward getting ship
ments of ammunition now held at the
border In motion southward. With a
vigorous campaign in progress against
ihe Zapata forces in I lie south, and
the de facto government pledged to i
any active steps against the Villistas
in the north, the war supply finest ion
will he the next question considered.
I'AV NO ATTKNTIOV TO IIKMAM)
FOR. HfcMIOVAI. OF I. S. Ft.AOS
COLUMBUS. N. M., May 5.?Thirty
t'.irranza custom guards stopped an
American motor supply train at l.as
Palomas, eight miles south of (lie bor
der, to-day, and ordered the coin- ;
inander to remove American Hags Hy
ing from the cars The%Mcxleans, who
had bean celebrating "Cinco de Mayo," j
the Mexican national holiday, said
Mnerican flags could not be allowed
on Mexican soil. No attenlion was I
paid to the demand
t astho held at I.a tti;oo
OA ( O.NNI'IHAI 1 ( IIAIK.i:
LAREDO, TICX., May ft.?t'oloiicl
lldefonso Castro, a former Mexican
army oflicer, was arrested here to-day
on a warrant charging conspiracy to
<.et on foot a military expedition into !
Mexico. it is not known what fnc- <
I imi Castro is alleged to have been
afliliated. lie was released on fin,000 ,
bail.
AIR-BRAKE MEN ADJOURN
'I-, \V. Don, of Pciiiimj It nntrv ^.?clrd
President?C. M. Ivldd, of Itunnoke J
on P.xrrutive Committee,
ATLANTA. OA., May ft,?T. \V. Dow,
of Meadvillo, Pa., chief airbrake, in
spector of the Erie Railroad, was elect
ed president of the National Ail brake
Association at the. close of its annual
convention here to-day. C. M. Ividd, of
Roanoke, chief airbrake inspector of
the Norfolk and Western Railway, was
the only new member to be elected to
the executive committee.
FRENCH POSITIONS I
TAKEN BY GERMANS
. |
Enemy Gains at Verdun Are Ad-'
mitted in Official State
ment by Paris.
ITALIANS IN HEAVY CLASH
l'ierce Fighting Continues Un
abated Along Austrian Front.
Russians Repulse Turks.
Gain? f??r the Germans northwest of
Verdun are chronicled in both the
French and German official communi
cation*. Nort h of liili No. 3nt the Ger
many gained a footing In a French ad
vanced trench, and also occupied French
posit ions west of Avocuurt and several
trenches southeast of Ilaurouit. The
icpeated French attacks against Ger
man positions west of l.e Mort Homme
hroke dow ii under the Ccrnian (Ire.
Inclement weather is hampering the
infantry operation.*, according to the
latest official communication from
Paris, and bombardments alone are
taking place. Kill No. r.nt. northwest'
of Verdun, Is receiving a homhatdm<yu
of increased intensity.
In the region of the Adameilo Ridge,
on the Auiitro-ltalian line, the dene
light in? which has t.een in progress
for nearly a week continues unabated.1
Italian;. are heavily shelling the Tol
rnino bridgehead. and th?ie have been
artillery duels alone the Tyrol front.
? ?IIIOIAVi I-* A 11, TO
DIM.OIH.K ill SM.W FOIU.IOS
German a t tempt:- to dislodge tlie
Russians from raptured positions
southeast of the Ml; ka station have
met with failure, according to Retro
c rati, as also haw German attacks on
Russian trenches neai tlie Tarnopol
f 'o ? e rna Ra i I w ay.
NV.tr Haibut t. i Minor, tlie Turks
ha '? e acain essayed an attack against
the Russians, but iiave been repulsed
Night attacks by tiie Turks near Bitlis
also were put down. Near lSrzangan
tlie Russian? eapiured Turk trenches
and killed or took prisoner their oc
cupants.
i wo additionaI Zeppelins have been
destroyed. oik- in the Noith Sea. off
Hie noith coast of Schb'-wig and the
other off tlie <<?!,') t of Saloniki The
Rritish coast -lest rov ers destroy e<l the
first, which w ? apparent!;. out "Scout
ing. while the cutis of the entente
allied (Uet t Saloniki brought down
the second The Zeppelin wrecked on
Mie oast of Norway several days aco
.%<? Ixfi hlou t up I-. Norwegian so!
ili<i"^ lie an?-e wa- rolling danxc-t
<?us|v in a strong wind.
The Germans on the west front shot
down twenty-:entente allied aircraft
during \prtl. but themselves lost
twen!y.|?'i i . , i 11 r ? *. at i ordi it g to
Uerlin.
?'.rent Britain will ac< ede ?o tli?
American demand and release Germans
and Austrians removed from the Amer
ican steamer f'hina in the Pacific Ocean
some time ago.
GKIOIANS ltl'.l>ll>i:il IMIM.'
I IIOM' WKST III" MKtM:
PA IMS. .May "??West of the Meuse.
the Germans yesterday evening strong
ly attacked the French positions north
of hill 301. says the official statement
issued this afternoon by the French
War Mlllcc, but they were repulsed
along the whole front attacked, ex
cept In one or two points on the ad
vanced trenches.
An attempted attack on the trenches
at Gappy, south of the Somme, the
statement adds, completely failed.
Kast of the Meuse and in the Woevre,
there was an intermittent bombard
ment.
Otherwise the front was compara
tively calm.
The statement follows:
"South of the Sumnic, a coup tie main
attempted by the enemy on our
trenches in the region of Cappy was
completely checked.
"West of the .Meuse, after bombard
ment of extreme violence. uM. Ger
mans at the dose of the day yesterday
launched a strong attack upon our posi
tions north of hill 1101. They were re
pulsed along the whole front attacked,
but gained a footing at some pointa
in our advance trench
"Kast of the Meuse and in the
Woevre, there was intermit lent artil
lery activity.
"The night was relatively calm on
the rest of the front."
(iUlDlAV CAI'TlllR KltK.VOI
THKNCIIKN \ K.\ It \ KM III \
RKRHIN, May 5 (via wireless to
Sayvillel.?The capture of several ,
French trenches southeast of llaucourt.
on the Vcrdtin front, was announced
lo-iliij b\ the War Office.
Repeated French attacks against aj
German position west of Head .Man's
ilill broke down.
The War Office statement follows: j
"Western front: lively fighting con
tinues mi the Rritish front between!
A rmentiei es and Arras. Near Givench.v-I
en-Golielle there were hand-grenade
combats about a mine crater, in which
the enemy had obtained a temporary I
foot ing.
"South of the Somme German patrols
entered a position of the. enemy, re
pulsed a counterattack and captured
one officer ami forty-live soldiers.
"West of the Me use (Verdun front)
German troops entered French defeti-j
sive positions on the salient west of
Avocourt which had been evacuated by
the enemy In consequence of the Ger
man firo. These positions "were de
(Continued on Third Page.)
Unofficial Text of Note of German Government in
Reply to U. S. Demands on Submarine Warfare
BI.R1.JX, .May S (by wireless via |
Say vi lie). Following is the text of th? J
note of llie German government in reply '
i? the American note resisting sub- j
marine warfare, delivered on Thursday '
by Gottlieb voii Jagow. the Foreign j
.Secretary. to Ambassador Gerard:
'"' he undersigned, on behalf of the I
imperial German government, has the i
honor to present to His Bxcellency. the I
ambassador of the United States. .Mr. '
?lames \\\ Gerard, the following reply
to the note of AprIV 2?. regarding the '
! conduct i>f lierman submarine warfare, j
I he German government handed I
over t<. the proper naval authorities for 1
early investigation the evidence ion- '
cerning the Sussex, as communi. ated '
by the government of the United States, i
Judging by the results that the in-!
vestigation has hitherto yielded, the.;
j German government is alive to the p?a- ?
.si hi lily that the 8hi|> mentioned * in the ;
i note of April 10. as having been tor
pedoed by a German submarine, is ac
tually identical with the Sussex.
I ?;i:ioia\ V II KI'I DIATKS
STATKIMK.NTS Allot t si ssk.v
"The German government begs to
reserve further communication on the
I matter until certain points4 are ascer
tained, which are of decisive import
ance for establishing the facts or the I
case. Should it turn out that the com- ?
I mauder was wrong in assuming the
, vessel to he a man-of-war. the tier-'
man government will not fail to draw
the consequence resulting therefrom.
"In connection with the case of the'
j Sussex, the government of the United
States made a series of statements, the i
gist of which is the assertion that the 1
I in- tdent is to he considered hut one !
instance of h deliberate method of
Indiscriminate destruction of vessels of
all sorts, nationalities and destinations
l>> German submarine commanders. t
"The German government must em. !
phatkall> repudiate the assertion. The
German S"vcrnmcnt. however, thinks it j
I of little avail to enter into details in j
the present st;.ge f.f affairs, more, par
ticularly as the government of t li o
United States omitted to substantiate
, the assertion by reference to comrete
facts.
I'l'ACU !II:sth ai\ts | |>o \
LSK or SI till A It |.> I;
i I he German government will oply .
j state that it has imposed far-reaching
lestralnts upon the use of the sub- j
marine weapon, solely in consideration
of neutrals- interests, in spite of the '
fact that these restrictions are ne.es- '
sarily ..f advantage to Germany's
enemies. So such consideration has
ever been shown rcjtrals bv ?;reat!
Britain and her allies
I he German submarine forces have
had. in fa. t. orders to conduct the ?Ub- 1
marine warfare in accordance with the
ceneral prim iples of visit and sear.-h
and the destruction, of merchant ves- '
"?Is recognized by international law.
ihe .enje exception being the conduct
of warfare against enemy trade carried
enen.j freight ships encountered
in the war zone surrounding tlreat !
Britain. With regard to these, no as- I
, suram e has ever been riven to the!
government of the United State- W. '
:such assurances are contained the I
declaration of February S. 1916.
I I he German government cannot ad
j mit any doubt that these orders were
-?veil or are executed in good faith
l-.rrurs actually occurred. They can i
1 in no Kind of warfare be avoided al
t??gether Allowances must he made in ;
Hie conduct ..f naval warfare against
an enemy resorting to all kinds of j
ru.-es. whether permissible or illicit. I
i) \\?;i:ic m itks i\ u ah
ZOM: Foil A I.I. MUTUAL*
"But, apart from the possibility of:
j errors, naval warfare. Just like war-'
fare on land, implies unavoidable dan
gers for neutral persons and goods
entering the lighting zone. Kven in
cases where the naval action is con- !
tlned to ordinary forms of cruiser war- !
fare, neutral persons and goods re
peatPdly conic to firrief.
I lie German government has re
peatedly and explicitly pointed out the!
dangers from mines, that have led to
the ioss of numerous ships.
"The German government has made
several proposals to the government
I "lo -""ed States, in order to reduce
"? a minimum for American'travelers
and goods the inherent dangers of
"aval warfare. UnCortunatelv, the
i government of the United States de. I
j cided not to accept the proposals. Had i
it accepted, the government of the
I n.ted Slates would have been instru
i mental in preventing the greater part
of the accidents that American citizens
i ,n('1 vvi,h in the meantime.
I i he lierman government still stands '
(by its offer to come to an agreement
i along these lines.
"As the German
peatedly declared, it
with the use of the submarine weapon 1
t" tins conduct of warfare against i
enemy Iradc. The German govern-!
however, has now decided to !
make a further concession, adapting i
methods of submarine war to the in- i
lerests of neutrals.
"In reaching this decision, the Ger- j
I LAND AMERICAN MARINES '
I Situation in Dominican llepuhlle lie.
<iulri-H Protection for I nllrd
States Leicatioii.
i -SANTO DOMINGO. DOMINICAN RB
|. PUBLIC. May 5.?Marines were landed
to-day from the American converted
cruiser Prairie for the protection of
the American legation.
The situation growing out of the at
tempt of factional leaders to overthrow
the administration of President .Jimenez
is critical.
Hostilities commenced hore at noon!
rievehal persons were killed or wound
ed. A ? Dominican gunboat bombarded
the town.
4,
g"^prnmcnt re
TOlltlot (1 isiipnwo
KDHEliiX SIOCIIMTAIIV VO.\ JAtiOW.
man government isactuated b.v con-,
sideratioiis which art- above tlie level
of disputed uuestion. (
"The German government attaches no ]
loss importanee to the sacred prin- '
ciples of humanity than Hit- unvt-rn- j
men! of the United Stales It again
fully take.? into account that both gov- 1
eminent." for many years co-operated
in developing international law in con
formity with these principles, the ulti
mate oliject of which has always been j
to conIIlie warfare on .sea ami land to
armed, forces of belligerents, and safe
guard as far as possible uoiicoinhatants
against the horrors of-war Bui. al? '
though these' considerations are of
great weight, they alone would not,
under present circumstances, have de
termined the attitude of the German
government For, in answer to the ap- ,
peal by the $ pverniiiciit of the United,
States oiii behalf ofc-th^ 'sacred prill*-!
elples of humanity and international i
law, the German government must re- '
pear once more with all emphasis, that
It was not the Herman, but the British.'
government which Ignored all accepted
rules of international law, and ex-j
tended this terrible war to the lives
and property of hbncombatnnts. having
no regard whatever for the interests ;
and rights of neutrals and noncom
batants that, through tin: method of
warfare, have been severely injured. j
"In self-defense against the illegal
conduct of British warfare, while i
lighting a bitter struggle f?? i- national '
? xistfiii e. lierinaii.v had to ics.irt to j
the hard but effective weapon ?<( sub- I
marine warfare
i:nc;i,a mi iti<:sro> sini.i;
I'Oll IM.KIi tl, TAtTICS
"As matters stand, the German gov
ernment cannot but reiterate regret
that the sentiments of humanitv which
the government of the United Slates
extends with such fervor to the un
happy victims of submarine warfare
are not extended with the same warmth
of feeling to many millions of women
and children, .who, according to the
avowed intention of the British gov
ernment, shall be starved, and who, bv
sufferings, shall force the victorious
armies of the central- powers into
ignominious capitulation. The tier
man government, in agreement with
the German people, fails to understand
this discrimination, all the more as it
has repeatedly and explicitly declared
itself ready to use the submarine
weapon in strict conformity with the
rules of international law. as recog
nized before the outbreak of the war.
if Great Britain likewise was ready to
adapt the conduct of warfare ti> these
rules
"Seveial attempts made by the gov
ernmeir of the United States to prevail
upon the British government to act
accordingly failed, because of llat re
fusal on the part of, the-British gov ern
ment. Moreover,- Great Britain again
and again has violated international
law. surpassing all bounds in outrag
ing neutral rights. - The latest mea- '
sure, adopted by Great Britain, declar
ing German bunker coak contraband
and establishing conditions under
which Knglish bunker I alone ir.
supplied to neutrals, is nothing but
an unheard-of attempt by wav of ex
action to force neutral < >nnagc into !
the service of British trade war
CI VIMXATIO.V THIIKATKN I'.ll
m IMIOMIMilMi \\ Alt j
"The German people knows that the,
government of the United Stales has
the power to confine the war !?> armed
forces of the belligerent countries, in ]
the interest of humanity and main
tenance of international law The gov
ernment of the United States would
have been certain of attaining this
end had it been determined to insist,
against Great Britain, on the incontro- i
IRELAND INCLUDED
>en Kngllsli Mllltiiri Srrvlre Hill,
linking <onxcrlpt lo:i <>eiirrnl.
Anirndeil.
(Special Cable to The Tinie.s-ldspalch.] '
LONDON,'May a.?The new military j
service bill, making conscription gen-j
eral, has been amended to include Ire
land) according- to the Kxchange Tele
graph.
Another amendment provides immun
ity for Irish who took' part in the up
rising, If they enlist. Ireland was e.\
cludef}; from ths ^original conscription
measure.
oi 1.1111<? rights (0 freedom of the seas.
Kut. as mat!?.,> siuml. t lie <;orman pro- '
pl?? is uipii-r the impression that the
government ,.r the (nited States, while
(IcmaiMlint; ih., i any. st niggling
for existence s|,all restrain the use or
an effect ive weapon. and while making
< ompliaiice with these, demands a con
flltion f..| ilia i i, I ei,a nre ..f relation:,
-with (Senna nv. confines itself to |?io
tests^ against illegal methods adopted
h.. '?oi many s enemies. .Moreover, the
German people know:: t., what con
siderable extent if:- enemies are sup
plied with all kinds of war material
from the tinted States
It will, therefore, lie understood thai
the appeal mad, t,v Ulo government of
the | nited State- to sentiments of
humanity and principle* ..f interna
tional law ? annot. under the circum
stances. meet the sain- heartv re- i
Rponse from thp Herman people which
such an appeal otherwise always is
certain to hml h?rr if the Cerntai,
government, nevertheless, is resolved to !
go to ih.- utmn.?t?limlt r.f concessions,
it has heen guided not alone by the
friendship connect ing tho two great
nations for over 1"" year.-. hu( also hv
the thought of the treat doom which
threatens the entire .t\i|!Ze,j world
should ihe . rue) and sanguinary war
he extended and prolonged
nr.it i.iv uisiiks to i>ki:\i:\-r
iiitr.Arii A\ rrn vmioiiica
Ihe i.ermau government, conscious
or ? Serinany'.s slrcngth. twice within the
last few months announced before the
worljl its readiness to make peac> on
a hasis safeguarding (iermauy ? vital
interests, thus indicating that it is not
? Sennany's fault if peace still vvith
,,oM !'"? nations of Kuropr The
? ierman government feels all the more
justilied in declaring that respon: ihil
ii.v could not |,e borne before the forum
of mankind and in history if after
twenty-,me months of the war's dura
tion ihe submarine question under dis
cussion between the German govern
ment and liie government of tjte I'uited
States were to take a turn serloiislv
threatening maintenance of peace be
tween the two nations.
"As far an lies with the Herman gov -
eminent, it wishes to prevent things
from taking such a course. The tier
man government. moreover, is pre
pared to do its utmost to routine opera
tions of the war for the rest of it*
duration to the fighting forces- ,.f u,c
hell,cerent . iWchy al -o im'linns
freedom ..f as. principle upon
which the Herman government be
lieves. now as before, that it is in
;<motinoiit with ihr povrrmnrni of tho
L in t oil Si a i os
"The i.'ermais :;o\ eminent. cuided by
1 ''is idea. notifies tiie government of
?he I uitcd St at.:- (hat Uerm.-n naval
force- have le. eivcd tlu follow It,
ordei : *ln ao-ordam-c with the general
prill, iples of ? , -. t and search and the
destruction of met. haul vessel.- recoc
| nixed by international law. . Uch ves
sels. both within and without the area
declared a naval war Miie, shall not
be sunk without warning and without
saving human lives, unless the ship
' attempt i.. . . or offer resista nee.'
i >i t vi <? \i.i. ox i:\t.i, \ \ i)
Til <Hl.vr.lt \ |.; |..\\\ s
i ISiii neutrals cannot expect that
' Germany for. ed to fight for existence,
j shall for th, .,ke <>f neutral interests,
restrict ihe u-r of an olfective weapon
I if the eiiemv i, permitted to continue
! to apply at w,|| methods ?f warfare
jviolaiini; rule of international law
Such ., demand would be incompatible
with Hi, ? ha racier of neutrality, and
ihr < ieriitan government is convince,]
thai Ihr gov eminent of the United
I State, dor not think of making such
I a demand, knowing thai the govern
j ment of ihr I nited Stales repeatedly
declares that it is determined to re
store ihr principle of freedom of the
seas, from whatever quarter it has
been v lola l, <1
"Accordingly, the Herman govern
ment i.- confident that in consequence
<-f ih. new orders issued to the naval
's government of the (nited
States will also now consider all im
pediments removed which may have
been in the way ,,f mutual coopera
tion toward restoration of the freedom
of ihe seas during the war. as sug
gested in the note of July 23. |#|5. a?j
it does not doubt that the government
of the ('nited States \vill now demand
and insist that ihe Urilinh government
shall forthwith observe the rules of
international law universally re.og- 1
nixed before the war. as are laid down
in the notes presented by the govern
ment of ihe I'nited States in the Hritisli
government I'ecember 28. 1914. and No
vember 101",
"Should steps taken by (he govern- \
mem Of the I'nited States not attain j
the object il desires, lo have the lawn'
of humanity followed by all belligerent j
nai ions, (lie Herman government would j
then lie facing a new situation, in'
which it must reserve lo itself com- I
plete liberty of decision
"The undersigned avails himself ,.f j
this opportunity to renew lo ihe Amer- I
b an ambassador assurances of highest |
considera t ion."
GERMANS BURN SCHOONER
Vnmegliiit \ esr,rl Man, Destroyed li.v
t rulwer?llrr ( rra Is
Sin ed.
LONIioN. M.,y r.._The Norwegian
schooner Mais, while hound for Kns-|
land, was stopped and burned by "a
Herman cruiser, says a dispatch from I
Copenhagen lo the Kxchange Tele-j
graph Company. The crew was saved.
General Scandinavian opinion, the
d I spa l.'li adds. Is that Herman subma-l
rine warfare against merchant ship-!
ping Is ,m the vviuie. This method or
| warfare is held to be responsible rorj
| th? frreal rise in the' prir.? of steamship
shares on the stock exchanges In the
I Jabt few dayn.
Sentence Imposed by Court
Martial at Dublin Immedi
ately Carried Out.
EARLY TRIAL FOR CASEMENT
Alleged Arch-Conspirator to Be j
Granted Hearing Before I
Jury in London.
Dl_ HI..IN\ May I, ? l.onddi). Ma
h).? Kour more rebel prisoners
sentenced to flea Hi by court-martial an
shot this morning. This was announce
Ltliclr.ll>'. The men were Joseph Plunk
ctt. Kdward Daly. Michael ?I'llanrahai
and William Pcarse.
Fifteen other rebels were sentenced
to death, the official statement adds, but
later their sentence* were commuted
to ten years' penal servitude The
dealh sentence of another prisoner was
commuted to eight years' penal servl
t tide.
Two rebels were sentenced to ten
years in prison.
The following official communication
was issued this afternoon tThursday):I
"Kour prisoners ? Joseph Pluiikclt.j
Kdward l?aly, Michael O'llanrnhan ami
William Pearsc?were sentenced to I
death and shot this morning after the.
sentence had been confirmed h> the
general commander-in-chief ]
Kifteen others sentenced to death
vere commuted to ten years' penal ser- ,
\ itude They were.: Thomas ISevan.
Thomas Walsh. Ktnian Ijyncli. Michael
Mervyn. Dennis O'Callaghan, I*. I'-.
Sweeney. Patrick McNestry. Peter
| Clancy. William Tobln, George Irvine.
John Doherty. J. J. Walsh. James Mc
' l.inn. J. J. Held ami John 'Williams:
' "Another prisoner. John McGarry.
'was commuted from death to ei*ht
> ea rs.
"Two others. Krarteis Fabry and
Hichard Davys, were sentenced to ten
? > ea rs."
I \\ II.I. Tilt I ASK.Ml-:NT
\MTII1N MJXT FtHlT.MliHT
I,nN I ?ON. May 5.?The trial of Sir
> linger Casement will take place ill Lon
don wimin a fortnight before three or
itive Judges ami a -Jury. Baron Head
line. the Lord Chief Justice of Rutland,
'probably will preside. The Atlorpcy
; < ienern 1 will conduct the prosecution.
! sir Hoger has asked Sir Kdward- Car
lson to defend him. but it is unlikely
'that Carson will accept.
According to good authority. ...Ca.se
| nient. who for some time after his
| capture was threatened with a serious
i nervous breakdown, now has completely
| recovered his health.
filtKAT .M V ST Hit V HlllIKH M>S
CASK. OK .?. M. St I.I.I VA A
? 1 Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.)
t LONDON. May 5.?The greatest mys
tery surrounds the -ase of James AJark
Stilliviiti. former American minister to
, the Dominican Republic. To-day it
I was officially staled by the British
government that Sullivan is not ip ctjs
! tody in connection with the Irish re
I hellion, and that he is not likely to
i he. s |
! Despite this denial, it is generally
believed that the American is under
arrest. This belief was increased when
the British government also issued a
denial t" the effect that St. John Gaff
ney. former- American consul-general
at Munich, was not under arrest, and
i that, so far iis known, he did not land
; in Ireland.
I This statement in reference to Oatr
ue > is particularly puz/.ling. At no
lime prior to this has there been any
| intimation that fiaffney was either In j
Ireland or that he had been arrested.!
Gaffney some lime ago got into dis
favor at Munich because of his pro-j
German views and utterances, and was
[dismissed. It was generally believed
that be was tti America until the mvs-j
terious denial was made that he had
; not been arrested.
Sullivan's case was all the more cum
j plicated this afternoon when Mrs. Sul
livan reported to the American em
bassy here that there was not the.
j slightest basis for the charges against!
! her husband. Mrs. Sullivan is evi-i
dentlj under the impression that her|
i husband has been arrested and is being
secretly detained.
Mrs. Sullivan believes that her hus
band has been brought to .Kngland, but
lull efforts to locate him have, been!
1 futile. !
To-day she made many attempts to|
| ascertain his whereabouts. The only]
I c onsolation she received from the of
ficials. however, was that all the pris
I oners who had been put on board ves
sels at Kingstown were merely num
bered. and that their natm^s were not
i taken. It was admitted before the de.
? ital was ni..de' that Sullivan might be
lone of the prisoners whose identity is]
j hidden under a number.
| The American embassy has been
! working all day In an effort to tlnd Sul
liivan. but has been no moro successful
| than has the American diplomat's wife.;
I Mrs. Sullivan Is almost distracted over,
! her failure and of the mystery that, is!
being made of the case.
The embassy l? also endeavoring to
clear up the mystery surrounding: the
whereabouts of Gaffney.
UNOFFICIAL TEXT
OF NOTE RECEIVED
SETS FEAR AT REST
Decoded Version of Official
Copy Goes to President
Wilson To-Day.
\CCEPT ASSURANCES
IF BOTH ARE SIMILAR
/Vill Await Evidence of Berlin's
Abandonment of Practices of
Submarine Warfare.
KII.U'H DECISION NEXT WEEK
Variety of Views Expressed b,r Con
gressmen, Who <^uietlj- Read
Document. 4
?\N ASH IXGTON. May. 5.?-G ermy'.i
uole hits postponed. ? it it actually huo
not a verier), a diplomatic break with
llie United States.
President Wilson will make the de
cision after he bus read the official
text. which reached the State. Depart
ment late to-<lav by cable from Ambas
sador Gerard from Berlin. It will be
decoded in time to lay it before the
President to-morrow.
It was stated authoritatively after
| the Cabinet meeting to-day that if the
'official text bore out the unofficial ver
sion transmitted in rto-day^s ^Berlin'h
news dispatches. Uermany'.s assurances
undoubtedly wpuld . be accepted, and
before taking another step the United
1 States would - await the fulfillment of
i her latest, promises.
In such case the United States might
not reply to the note, .and would await
evidence of the actual abandonment pf
, Genn^qy'.s present.. practicea : of, sub
marine warfare, which rls" declared,
i President Wilson 'Is' described by those
'close about him as being In a position
Where he cannot quesitioii the good
j faith of Germany's assurances, which
i must stand or fall by the future coti
i duct of her submarine commanders.
jAIIMKD SHIT (tl KSTION.
IS .NOT INVOLVED
The German embassy view is that the
note g,ivcs all that President Wilson
asked for; that it signalizes a return
? to "cruiser warfare"?the use of sub
marines as regular naval cruisers in
tercepting commerce with visit and
| search, and that, inasmuch as it makes
no mention of the armed ship question,
that perplexing feature of the contro
versy is not involved.
| < outness took the note quietly, and.
alt hough . members expressed a variety
of views, the general sentiment seemed
t to l>e in favor of leaving the situation
in the hands of President Wilson.
Cabinet members went over the
unofficial text carefully with the Presi
dent. and while they uniformly refused
to discuss It. they reflected the view
that, a break had been averted: that
Germany's new assurances would be
|accorded the test of time, notwithstand
ing the reference to the action Ger
, many expects the United States to take
against Great Mritain's restraints on
neutral trade.
They expressed this view with full
.realization of f'he differences' of opin
I ion on what constitutes a peaceful
merchant ship entitled to the protec
tion of international law and of the
President's Steadfast determination not
to permit the controversies of the
United States with one of the bellig
erents to become entangled with those
of another.
?? i?ict is i?x a K.si;n v ed"
t > T11, ENtil.AND ACTS
The United States only recently, de
claring* its views on the right of mer
chant ships on the high seas, recognized
ami provided for the condition under
which Germany charges merchant ships,
by orders of the British admiralty,
actually are acting as naval war ves
sels in attacking submarines.
Germany in her note "reserves com
plete liberty of decision" shoutd the
United States fail to prevail upon Great
Britain to bring her practices into con
formity with international l?w. , The
? ?tlicial Mew is that the United States
for some time has been, and now is.
conducting diplomatic correspondence
with Great Britain on that subject,
j and the success or failure, of the ne
gotiations and Germany's consequent
a. tion must necessarily remain for the
future.
I he I, nited States does not know
how Germany's new instructions to sub
marine commanders compare with
[ previous instructions. Secretary Lan
j sing stated to-day that it was possible
the State Department might ask for
official copies of the old orders.
The newest qrders, however, appar
ently are regarded as meeting the
| President's demand for a declaration of
, an abandonment of the present prac
tlces of submarine warfare. Officials
seemed agreed that the President s de
[ mand that Germany also "effect" such
I an abandonment only could be an
I awered by time.
AVI 1,1, REACH NO DECISION'
L.NTII, .NEXT TV EKK
j Under such circumstances ene set of
; feel the threatened break will
j not come at this time; another set Is
| convinced that Germany's apparent de
termination to make the fulfillment of $
her promises conditional upon- ^
|ce?s of the President'# negotiation#
? ? ?- J
