WEATHER
_____k?MaatX U.B Wlb4uVKK(XWi
f^KKvn-: swrm WINDS.
C mn?i :??
Kar-* araa J\s_re 1*.
WeitiBarli
afcUrtmt
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net I'aid, Non-IUturnable
Firaf to Laat? the Truth: Newa - Editoriala - Advertiaementa
l\\Vl....No. 25,.374,
tropyrlohl 101*?
riie Trll.une Aaa'n.l
SATURDAY, MAY 6, 1916.
* * ?
4\Y|,a r'i;\''|' ln New York 4 II? SVw.rk, I?._-, T?r
8 1.18 4 A h.4 1 ,nrt Mohnkm. Klaa-where Two i rate.
Germany's Answer Postpones Break
THE CONCESSION.
"As the German Government repeatedly derlared. it cannot dispense with thc use of the submar.nc weapon
in Ihe conduct of warfare ajjainst cnemy tradc. Thc German Government, however, has now decided lo make a
further concession. adaptinp methods of suhmaririt* war to Ihc interests of neutrals.
"The German Government is prcparcd to do its utmost to confinc opcrations of the war for thc rest of Its
duration Cal thc iightinj*. forccs of thc bclligerents, thercby also insurinp. freedom of thc sea.s, a principle upon
whieh tho German Government belicves. now, as before, that it is in ap.reement with the Government of thc I'nited
^t'U I
? Thf German Government. Kiiideri hy this idea. no.ifies thc (.overnment of the I'nited .States that Ger
ma'i naval foroes have reccived thc foDowing order:
" 'In accordance wilh thc gcneral principles of visit .and scarch and thc destruction of merch.-tnt vessels
eco-rnized by international law. such vessels. both within and without the arca declared a naval war zone, shall
not bc sunk without warnin? and without saving huinan lives. unless thc ship attempt to escape or olTer re
sistancc'
THE STRING TO THE CONCESSION.
"Hut neutrals cannot expect that Germany, forced to flffht for exlstence, shall. for the sake of neutral In?
terests, restrict the use of an elTective weapon if the enemy is permitted to continue to apply at will methods of
warfare violatin/! the rules of intern.itional law.
"Accordingly, the German Government is confident that, ln consequence of the new orders Issued to the
naval forrcs, the Government of the Initcd States will also now consider .all impediments removed whieh may
have been in the way of mtitual co-operation toward rcstoration of the freedom of the seas during the war, as
suggestcd in thc note of .luly 23. 191"). and it does not doubt that the Government of the I'nited States will now
demand and insist that the Hritish Government shall forthwith ohserve the rules of international law universally
r.'fopnized before the war, as are laid down in the notes presented by the Government of the I'nited States to the
Hritish Government. Dccember _.N. 1011, and November 1, 1915.
"Should steps taken by the (.overnment of the I'nited States not attain the onject it desires, ti have the
laws of humanlty followed by all belligerent nations, the German (.overnment would then be facing a new situa
tion, in whieh it must reserve to itself complete liberty of decision."
{MORE IRISH
REBELS SHOT;
I8GOTOJAIL
Brother of 'President'
Pearse Among Those
Executed.
16 DEATH EDICTS
ARE COMMUTED
15 Escape with Ten-Year
Senfences. Other Oets
T:ight Years. t
? -r rebel (
death by ,
? rday. Thia
waaaanonnced ofl " "vfTe
Josrr " rh"1
O'Hanraban and W lllam Pcarae.
I -entrneed
to death. rhe offieial itatemeat adds,
arera rom
aara' penal <en-itude.
The death aen'cr ther prisoner
:.rs' penal
sentenced
te t*n yeara in pr
jy, | rommunir'.
vaa bb
? ? Plui.kett,
rdws- M'Hanrahan and
,1 to
death gi ?-ftf'r the
ea confirmnl by tbe
g in ehief.
(Jvoa "f Flfteen Spared.
? 1 to death
wrre ( . cars' penal ser
Thomaa Bevan,
Thomas Wallh, Fin:<in Lyncb, Micha"l
,,:!aghan. P. E
Sweenry, .Vrick McN'rstry, Peter
. c,,nrcr Irvine,
J Walah, James Mc
Linn. and John Williama.
MrCarry,
wis , ted from death to elght
\-ara.
Francis Fabey and
? c'.'i to ten
I'limkrtt of Netad Family.
Jo?. ? ? waa one of the aeven
f thc proclamatlon of
Govi rnment
k H. Pi :.' lonal
J, ( larke and
el h aimilar fate,
,. i atches
of the
? arid James Con
and that s. Mae*
-nt bad not been
accoi.- MacDiarmad, who is a
I ealth, and Ceannt
ind J>. of the orig
'? etill alive.
i.r ol the Cath
. "un Irish family
- vaa ix brother ot
? was a sculptor
i'^ w ,< opee n tutor in thr Iriah hoys'
ichoc; ' brothei was head
Kdward Paly and 1 I O'Hanra
han hava not played prominent roles in
tha rrvolutlcnary BBOVBB
GERMANS URGED IRISH
AT FRONT TO DESERT
Reply Was "Rule Britannia"
Played en Mouth Orpans.
LaadeBa laay B lmmadlately after
tthraah ef the Irish revolution
in trenches opposite
'he Irish division I'.ghting on the west
frn front put up figns inviting Irish
men to join t' 1 C.ermans, aceording to
BOWi r., , rved by John F. Redmond, the
' ' Nntionalist leader, from his
brother, Captain William H. K. Red
isond, noxv at thc front. One notice
read:
"lr.ahmen in Ireland are in revolu
. ?h guns are liring on your
*ives and children. Sir Kotfer Case
tnent pcrrecutcd. Throxv your arms
**(,?. - . >aa hearty weleaaae."
?her sign read: "We are Saxons,
?Bd | v, , ,j,,r.'f - ''?."
Tha Iriahmen replied by playtag an
?riih *ir and 'Rule Britannia" on mouth
?Xla-cs
VILLA IS LOCATED,
REPORT TO PERSHING
Bandit Declared Found Near
Chihuahua City.
. .Bai 0 naaaa - ' ' " ' TiVbm" :
E1 Paao, Taa . May ?'? Paaehe Villa
has been located in the mountains
thirty miles north of Sar-.ta Taahal BBd
milea west of Chihuahua City.
according to a report receive,1 by f.rn
eral Pershinp to-dBy and teleprrtphrd
?o General Fredericl- Tunston B<
Paso.
VT.la ia anld to have been located by
American seo-.:*s, who have rjuietly
been working on ir.fprmation obtained
at San Afltoolo, an American cavrilry
bafe in Maxlce, thnt Villa either never
had left the C'usihuiriachle country or
hnd returned there after getting below
ParraL._
THATS FINE,"BRYANS
VIEW OF GERMAN NOTE
Then thc Cnmmoner Says Wil
Min's Nomination Is Certain.
.-??h to Th? Tr"
Columbia, Mo., May .r,. "Say. that'a i
- WBB Williarn .1. Hryan's
?old this evening of
,.: y's note bein_r npardcl as vir
tually aeceding to the dataaadfl of the
: States B? to the use of BUh
. 4. -I believe that you CBB BB7
the Bewa la gratifying to all of BB," he
added. .
?nsaiac polltieB, Mr. BryaB bbki
waa tio doubt about the nomina?
tion of Preflideot Wilson.
??Tl ? ' "n ,s ?<>"J?wha.1
compllcated, mmoner cont
?by the faet that we do not Kno44 how
complel ;'<*a!> ?uJr\-ou\l
inited. Our iuccefla four yeara
?po waa due to the ^ the
! .- up t4\o candidates._
48 HOURS IN PARIS,
SKY HEROS REWARD
Has Every Dccoration, Then
wiBg>171h r,crman ,p!ane'
[By CBMfl "? ThrT-1' *
Tari^ May ?"?- AdjBUBt Navarre,
tho auperfi-lron of French aviation.
has BBhBBBUd *be r-oertoire of
French oflicial rewards. He wrars the
rrilitarv medal, the war cross and tho
0f the Lep'on of llor.or and haa
been made an ofiicer in the LeffiOB.
Ofl brlnging down hia i-evontrenth
,,n machine the BBthoriUea, nt
. 1?. what recopnit.on to make, BUm
1 moned him to headquartere and .
at would you like more than
*^oSWStr?o?r. of Parl..- he
answered.
He pot them. _ _
GERMAN FOOD RIOT
CAUSED BY BUTCHERS
Mob Swecps Through Streets
Plundering Shops.
BarllB, May 6^-A mob gathered in
Charlot*enburg last nipht and awept
through the atreeta. plundering two
1 butter ehops and amashlng algns and
; wlndow. of a number of other butter
shops and meat ahops. Includlng the
, municipal meat ehop.
The rioting, whlch waa aoon ended,
I waa due chiefty to Indignation caused
by the diaeovery that butcbera were
? withhold.ng from aale meat dellvered
' them bv the city for aale to tha poorer
people ooldlBg mr-at cards. or had aold
. it priTBtaly at prices 4_r.eding the
i official mmimum. i???_tio~.
Tho rohce have begun an inveatiga
I tion and already have- arrested a num?
ber of tutchcra._
BRADY EXECUTORS PUT
ESTATE AT $87,000,000
Transfcr Tax of $2,637,554 Paid
to State Controllcr.
Albany. Mav ... The fltat uccountlnp
i of the ?aeotOfa of the late Anthony
, n Brady, af A'.bai.y. whieh waa Blod
' in the SBiTOfBU'a Coart here to-day,
l valuea the eatate of 'he "llole of \\ all
I Street " aa the flnancier 44.1s kaoara, ut
1 "apward of ^7.000,000."
The traaafar tax paid ta tha Wata
Controll.-r amounted to
, iixm.i.in iimi. \?:w wmi ? ! BfimaJ
:? K's;:
jS^-JTiS-^.V.;:.:.?* - . *?
>or olber cbanflee conault aftiit^-^AUvL
PACT REJECTED
BY CARRANZA,
BORDER HEARS
First Chief Insists on
Withdrawal Now,
It Is Reported.
OBREGON SILENT
ON "PROMiSES"
Promoter Dodges Issue of
Mexico's Ability to
Control Situation.
By ROBF.RT DTJ1TN.
i r.>r-?r"i icT - IM
Fl Faso. Tex , Hay t. Carranza ha*
rcfused to sign tbe agreement draxxm
! up by General* Obregon and Scott, ac
g to reporta reaching here to
nigbt, but theaa cnnriot br eontirmed.
, It ia underatood that Carranza
that the only agreement he will accept
will bi' ona providing for immcdiate
' withdrawal,
IndieatiOBS, hoxvever, polr.t strongly
, to the First Chief not being in accord
with tha arrangementa made by Obre*
gon, which mBy preface total failure of
tha r.i gotiatioos.
Tbe teaelon that has been more or
|00l appai BB (ieneral Obre
i gon. <m thr one side, nnd Generals
. PnnatOB, on the o'.her, has
been increai mg Btaadily.
II waa itated to-aight that it is not i
known when thr slgaiag ef the tenta-:
agreemeat, which was to have been
aeeompliahed to-day, will take place.
"General, how Is it poisible for you
j to pr": ' peration with oat troop*
'? in catchlng Yilla, flinee you do not con
.rul the rrgion where they havr been
operating?"
This question I a^krd this mnrning
..f General Alvaro Ohragoa, < arranza's
tei Of War, on the rcar of his ;
U,'reen privnte car Siqinsiva in thej
Junrez railroad yards. My interpreterj
waa Juan Amndor, his flub*aecretary of;
gobernaeion, lately Brrlved from Veral
a dnrkly olcaginnus geatleaaaa
8 rose in the buttonholo of his j
?and-snlt puit. I had juet shakcn
OhregOB'a left hand, the right arm j
haflgiBg a limp r-tump in the alreva of
j his neBt fcldgrau uniform. Now his '
plump, able face, darkened; he gavr a ,
! tug ct its drooping mustache and re
I plied Criaply to Amndor. But tirat I
| i I caught, bim. Ile bad rnised bis j
Lhoulden. Our eyes had met and he !
auppreased tbat negative, devil-may
eare shrug. lt told just what I wBnted
to know.
Amador Draws a Llne.
"That 1? a matter which the general
! deslres not to dlscuss," interpreted
with a auapirlous iqutnt be of tbe
pepper-nnd-salt sult,
"Ask bim," I prr^isted, "how ba can
I to eatch Villa. elnce there ls no
? ? rtloa between bis troops and tbe
bandlts in that country, which la in a
??ta*" "f anarchy"
Amador was stlll eimpl'a nr knew
enough thrre to put the question. Only
tho slightest wince at one corner of
his mouth whon he bad fminhed told
mo that ho waa "tumbling " dhrcgon'*
, ves flashed as he retortod. P'Jt again
I had caugbt lilm. He had fint tried
diasimulation with a laugh. then
1 it
"You must not make eucb questionB,**
waa his n ply. ? .
I cor.cluded the question- a.id
th, refore, how bia troops, which op
poaed us from th-' beginnmg, can be
raada to aid us bowT"
This time Amador refuaed to even
rut the query- Both of them. by their
?Udden ealm of manncr ant a narrow
Ing of blaeh ajeUahae, erata aa that
I w-rxs touchlng the cmx which makes
.vp \aU conference agreement fatuous
... far aa thoe* prme pointa ara con
1:illk,., II a Mexican hypoensy
?i! patt, ar.d makes us, IBIW
aide. dup^i ?ho bave^ only agreed to |
CoaUooed on i>aae 1. columa 8
TEXT OF GERMAN REPLY
Herhn, May 5 (by u-irelc** fo Sayrille, K. V.).-FoWounBfl- fa
f/i? tert of the note of the Crrmnn dovemment tn reply to the
Amuriean note reepetting amhrnutrhu warfewa, tohmaraiam
Thuredoy hy GmttUah von Jayaw, tha Faraign Saeratawa, to Am
bnsnn<'nr Gemrdl
Tho undersipnod. on bchalf nf the Imporial German Govern?
ment. has tho honor to prosent to His Kxrelleney tho Ambassador
of the United Statea, Mr. Jamea W. Gererd. the followmp reply
to tho note of April 20 rop.irdinp tho conduct of German eub
marine warfare. ,
Tho (.erman Government handod over to the proper naval
authoritics for early investipation tho evidence concermnp the
Sasaea as comnunioated by the Government of tho l nited Mates.
Jttdging by the results that the investipation ha. hithcrto yielded,
tho Gennar. Government is alive to the possibility I at the fihip
mentioned in the note of April 10 ns havinp been torpedoed by a
German submarino is nctually idertiral with tho Sussex.
Tho German Government beps to reserve further commumca
tion en the matter until certain pnints are, a^eertained which are
of decisiva toiantance for eatabllahing the faeta of the case.
Should it hirn out that thc oommander was WTOflf in .issurmnp
Um vrsrol to be a -tan-of-war, the German C.overnment will not
fail to draw the oonsoquence resultinp thcrefrom.
In connoction with the case of the Sussex, tho Government of
the I'nited Statea mado a serie-s of statcments, the flrt of which
is the aaaartkrn that tho incident is to be considered but one in
stanre of B deliborate mrthn.l of indisorimi.iato dostruct.on of
vejgaeia oi all aorta, nationalities and destinations by German sub
marine oommanders.
The German Government must emphatically repud.ate the
ascortion. Tbe German Government. however. th.nks it of little
avall to enter into details in the preaent Ftajre of affa.rs more
par?irularly as the Government of thr United Statea omittod to
i nbatantiate the aaaertlon by roferon.-e to Mmerete farts.
Tho German Government wfll -nly state that it has imposed
farrraching rcstraint.s opon tho oaa of the submarine weapon
rolely In ronslderation of iioutrals' interests, in spite of the fact
tha" "these reatricttoM nro necessarily of advantapo to Germany s
enemies. No aoch ronsicler-.tion has ever been shown neutrala
by Great I'.ritain and her Allies.
The German submarine forees have had, in fact, orders to
cr.nnurt tho submarine warfare in accordanro with the penera
prirciples of visit and aearch and the destrurtion of merchant
veaaeh reeognlied bv intorr.ati..r.al law, tho sole exception being
t'ho ennduct of warfare againet onemy trade carried on enemy
freigfat ahipa encountered in tho war UM surroundmp Great
Britain. With rcpard to theso no a-urances have ever been
rrivtn to the Government of tho United Btotf* No such assur
IntM are COnUined in the declaration of February 8, 1916
The (ierman Government cannot admit any doubt that these
orders were giren or are executed ln |00d Mfh. talM
ooourrod. Thev can In no kind of warfare be avoided altopether
Mlowances must be made in tho conduct of naval warfare againat
an enemy rcsortinp to all kinds of ruscs, whether permi.sible or
But apart fmm the possibility of errors, naval warfare, just
l,lo warfare on land, implies tmBTOidabia danpers for neutral
penrma and fOOda enterinp tho llphtinp zone. Even in cases
xvbore tho naval action is conlined to ordinary forms of oru.ser
warfara, neutral persons and fOoda repeatedly come to pnef
The German Government has repeatedly and explic.tly
pointed out the danpers from mine.i that havo led to the loss of
numerous ships. ,
The German Government has mada several proposals to the
Gnvoi nment of the United States in order to reduce to a minimum
for American travellers and poods the inherent danpers of naval
warfare. Unfurtunatolv, the Government cf the 1 n.ted Statea
rJecided not te accept tho propoaela. Had it ncceptod. the Gov
cnt of tho I'nited Statea would havo been instrumental in
prexentinp the preater part ef the accident* that Amenran citi
zens havo met with in the meantime.
The German Government still stands by its offer to come to
an epreement alonp these lines.
As the German Government repeatedly declared. it cannot
dlspense with the use of the submarino weapon in the conduct of
warfare apainst enemy trade. Tho German Government, how?
ever, has r.ow dr-Hded to make a further concession, adaptmp
mrt'.ods of submarine war to the interests of neutrals.
In reachinp its decision. the German Government is actuaterl
rontlnurd on paerr 9, rolnmn "._
The Camera's Art
There are "photograph* and photographs. The
Graphic Pieture Section to-morrow shows you apeci
tnena remarlcable for their artistry. It gives you an idea
of what can be done with a camera.
Whether you are a camera enthusiast or just a
casual ?'snap-shotter." you will want to get and to keep
these aeven pages of beautiful reproductions of photo
graphs now to be seen at the New York Camera Club"s
annual exhibition. They will be an inspiration?and B
rhallenge?to you. Have you told your newsdealer to
reserve your copy?
Zhe JSunaay iTribune
Fimt to lAst?the Truth: Sows?Fdltorlmls?Advertitcments.
Member of the Aullt B_r*?u ut Ctnulait a
DEMAND MET, BUT ANOTHER
ILLEGAL ACT MEANS RUPTURE
LINER BATTLES
WITH U-BOATS.
London. May 5.?The
British liner Clan Mac
fayden has arrived in
Gravrsend from Africa
damaged by the gunfire of
l4\o Grnnan submarines.
Thc steamer returned thc
fire and it 4vas believed on
board that one of the sub?
marines was destroyed.
Ihc steamer reports that
thc first attack on her was
made in ihe Bay of Biscay,
when a subm.iriae fired
sixly shots at her at a range
of fifty yards. The steamer
immediately brnught her
big gun into action and hit
the submarine several times,
and, it is believed, sent it
down.
Three hours later another
submarine fired a torpedo
but missed the Clan Mac
fayden by a few feet.
BREAK PREDICTED
BY LONDON PRESS
German Rcply an Insult to
American Intelligence,
Says "The Express."
I/ondon, May fi. The intereat with
whieh (lermany'a rcply to the L'nited
States was BWaited here eould hardly
( huve beea eaeeedod in Aaaariea. All the
evening newipaners yaetarday printed
the noto promiaently by sections in suc
cesaivo editiOBfl. The greatest curios
ity was expresse.l u to tha recoption
j of the note by the I'nited Statefl.
Tho morning ne4vspapers, almoat with?
out cx.eption, print editorials on the
note and expre?s more or le.a.s declded
: opinions ou it.
"It can only mean n break between
I ABieriea and (."ermany," says "The l>aily
Newfl." "The phraaaolon of the Ger?
man reply, whieh raaoifeatly was de
| to Irapreaa the Garman people
.iuse and to
; throw the onus of hostile action on
I Ameriea, is in itself suffirient ia Its
oblique, bol ealculated, effroBteri to
?he Kovernment of a powerful and
: indepeodent people to action."
Times I'eems Hreak Niar.
"The Tiaaea" -?ys it IiBda b< thlag in
the German note whieh ia lih
prove aatiafaetory to Praaldent ?'l"on
, or the American paapla. I I ' alleged
eOBCeaaion contained in it is vague and
ia mad. to turn upon cond
are utterlv inadmiai ibla. M"r
! arcording t.. thfl newflpaper, there is an
-.. [naidiona attompt to embroil
tha I'nited States with Kngland and her
, Allies. . , _.. .
"We fanrv," the editonal adds, that
if Gen_UUiy ariBhaa ta avoid a break in
ralatiOBfl she will have to give without
furthi | or deiay a better and
less ambiguous BBBWar ta I resident
I ilerr.ar.d.'"
"Th<> Czpraafl" eharaetariaafl the uer
m?n reBly as "inaolent, eyaieal and die
ingeiiuou's," and declares it is an ul
tiroatum "baeauae it means that unless
the United Statea attampta to force the
thfl lieffl of (icrminy
Gennanfl will eoBtiBBa ta kill hap
hazard. It ia humbug and an insult to
Ami-ncan "?
"Germany has not the means of fight
ing at sea according to the ralei
therefnro claims the right to ^ tight
' against the rules. an.l asks the united
States to Bid and abe! 1 er. ln ? I
(iermany say ta Ameriea: If youi wi.l
refuee to sell munitior.s to tha Allies
'< and if vou will help us to break Great
; Hntain's power at r-ea, Wfl will try not
j to murder any more of your citizens "
Move o Embroil Nationa.
"The Morning Post" seej in tha Ger?
man note nn attempt to prolong the
negotiationa and to embroil Kngland
and Ameriea, arhile rompletely evading
C'ooltnned ?n _m?e 8, r-oluma 7
New Order to Submarine Com
manders All That Is
Acceptable.
BERLIN INSISTS AMERICA
CURB BRITISH BLOCKADE
President Chagrined at Tenor of Reply?
Germany's Good Faith to Be Tested
Now by Deeds.
_:_ \
rr"? T?ia Trttwra Ttni-aan 1
TYashington, May o.?Germany's reply to President Wil
'?on's ultimatum, stating that orders have been issued to her
submarines to keep within international law, will prevent a
break for the present. 'While unsatisfaetory in many respects.
it meets the immediate American demands so far as language
poes, officials say. Germany is now to be tested in deeds and
: it is insisted that one more illegal submarine attack will be fol
lowed by the severance of diplomatic relations.
The unofticial text arrived early to-day, and was considered
at the Cabinet meeting this morning, and by the .State Depart?
ment, .Senators and Representatives. The <eenest re>entment
was expressed at its tone. at the evident attempt to stir up
public opinion against the President and at the restrictions with
whieh the concessions are hedged.
President Wilson, it was reported on the highest authority.
if greatly chagrined at its general tenor, and so expressed him
self befoN the Cabinet. Xevertheless, his advisers feel that
j the note offers nothing whieh would justify an expression of
! resentment, and since it gives the pledge demanded, must be
acoepted so long as the actions of (.erman submarines accord'
with it.
Tho offirial text of tho note was
1 not rcceived hore till late thia evcn
ing. It will require soveral hours to
deeode an<l propare it for submission
to the President, and he is not likcly
to mmplete his study of It till late
to-morrow. In tho moanwhile no
official would comment for puhlica
, tion, though privately they let their
! opinions becomo known.
t'lst Ia ln New I'-Boat Order.
The thing whieh makes the note at
all acceptable M the trtatement that
: the following orders have been la*
sued to the submarine commandon:
"In aocordance with tho genenil
principle of visit and seareh and tho
destruction of merchant vessels rec
ognized by international law, surh
vessels, bo*h within and without the
area declared a naval war zone, sha'l
' not be sunk without warrung and
without saving human lives unloss
the ship attempts to escape or offers
resistanre."
The most serlous objectlon is taken
to the next to tbe last paragraph of
the note, whieh says that rf the
I'nited States fails to induce Britain
to give up its blockade "the German
government will be facing a new sit
uation in whieh it must reserve to
itself complete liberty of action."
Others of the many things wM.h
! have caused resentment are the
cavalier dismissal of the charg* by
President Wilson that Germany has
-h..wr. bad faith, the roference to tho
t-hipment of munitions to the Allies,
thi- charge that the United States
eould have forced Great Britain to
give up her blockade, and that her
present insistence that Germany stop
killing American eitizens is "unneu
? tral."
Ten-'lon Still at Hlfh Point,
The crlaia ia not paased, the most
1 optimistic admit The threat to re
! sume unreatricted submarine war?
fare unless this country foreea con
taBBBBMU from Great Briial| , and the
careful wording of the orders to sub
marine oommanders, whieh are be
lieved to lenve intentional room for
a future "misunders.'?nding" ov?r
armed merchantmen, together wiih
lack of faith in any promises Ger
many may pivo, rnako i* eertain that
| tension will remain at a high point
for some time.
Whother a break will come d?'
pends on Germany's aetiors, and the
Administration will not be entirely
ac case until serupulous observance
of the law over a L.ng period has
demonstrated that this pledge is dif?
ferent from those previousiy given.
The real hope of avoiding a jreak.
held by many officiala, though not by
all, liea in a bellef that (.ermany ? rtie
time intends to keep her promiae, and
I that the quahflcationa, bitterneai and
i:'.plled threats were BBt into the nota
to placate public opinion in (.ermany.
| It ln realized that the long eontinuanre
of the I'-boat warfare ha* made it dlfll
! eult for (Jermany to back down with
grace, an.. allowance is made for tha
r.eed cf putting up a iitrong "front**
at home. Thoae who entertatn th.i
i hope argue that ("ermany, havir.g aatia
fled public opinion at home by a deflant
' and threetening note, will be in a po
; aition to go much lr'her toward meet
ing this coun.ry'a demands than ahe
haa promised.
Tone of Note Plaplea.lng.
The unsatiifactory tone of the nota
I and the conditio a it lay- down led to
aome demand early to .iay among HbV
i clala thut the j'rea'.ii-nt break off re
latioaa at ?nce. This pfBBBflal la aaid
I to have been made at the (abinet meet
I ing, but to h?4e heen .luminar.i. I.attr,
i aa the Administration had more time,
to Btudy the note, this talk died out,
arid to-aifhl ita BBaaaaarfl had agr*e.i
that it wa.4. beat to wait developnrtenta.
Caaaajraaa waa perhapi the or.ly place
wh.-r.- the note wa? rece:4e,J by man/
with real eatisfaetton. A<imint.4tration
Sasatara declared that the note ha.l
met the American demand* and would
be generally approved by the oeople,
and that it left no ground . for break
ir.g relations on long ai it wat lived
up to. The peace-at anyprtce mea
were e?en more p.eaaed. and 'here wat
talk of introducing a reao'utlon tx
preflfliag the aatiafecticn of (ongreia
with the German rouriei
Senators who have tBjt agreed with,
the Adminiftrativn policy, however?
