II ZONA REPUBLICAN
JLJOJli
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAK
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, MAY (, 191G
N12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 352
AI
DELEGATES ON
HAND INTUGSDN
FDR CONVENTION
Six Delegates to Republican
National Convention Are
to Bo Chosen at Meeting
Which Convenes in Old
Pueblo Today
IS IT CAMERON
OR IS IT DELAY?
WASHINGTON WAITING '
ACCEPTANCE OF THE
SCOTT-OBREGON PACT
n-
SELLING BOXES FOR
PROGRESSIVE CONVENTION
Fen Hildreth and Mike Cas
sidv Seem Eliminated and
Today's Fight Will Prob
ably le Between Cameron
and Delay
I CHICAGO, May 5. Sales of j
! boxes fur Hie progressive national 1
i convention :n Chicago June 7,
opened today. During the first
few hours of the sale seven boxes
were sold for $250 each. The
! committee on arrangements lias
engaged 10('(l rooms at Chicago j
hotels for delegates and other j
1 visitors to the convention. Word
was received by the committee i
I that the progressive convention in
the llawaaian islands held its
convention April 21t and elected
I George R. Carter a delegate to the
I Chicago convention. j
G n
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Tl'CSON, May K-Six delegates to (lie
republican national convention at Chi
cago next month will be chosen here
tomorrow at the republican state con
vention. Maricopa county, which has the
largest delegation to the state conven
tion here has declared itself in favor
of Theodore Roosevelt in choosing
Judge Edward Kent of I'hoenix as rep
resentative from that district to the
Chicago convention. As this county
has been allowed one delegate in the
INVITE IRISH
Tl FIGHT UNDER
GERMAN COLORS
Publication of Text of the
Agreement for Co-operative
Action Against Mex
ican Bandits Withheld
Pending Acceptance
GERMAN GAINS
MADETO NORTH
WEST 0F1ERD1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDi N, May 5. Immediately
after the outbreak of the Irish revo-
apportionment of representatives there jlutlon, German soldiers in trenches
appeared to be no doubt tonight but (opposite the Irish division fighting on
that Judge Kent would be one of the. the western front, put up signs in
six men named tomorrow. viting Irishmen to Join the 'Germans,
J. L. Hubbell, of Apache county; F. "according to news received by John
S. Breen of Coconino county, andjK. Redmond, the Irish nationalist.
Judge Frank Smith of Yavapai, county leader, from his brother, Captain Wil
represent one district from which a ; ljam H. K. Redmond, now at the
delegate will be chosen. Other candi- i front One notice read:
dates are Thomas D. Molley, Yuma -Irishmen in Ireland are in revolt,
county; Charles overlock, Cochise , English guns are firing on your
county; I. H. Freudenthal, Greealei wives and children. Sir Roger Case
county; J. C. Gutti, Greenlee county; j mcnt persecuted. Throw your arms
Dr. H. W. Fenner and Judge J. II. away. We give you hearty welcome."
Campbell of I'ima.
All but two of the candidates have
expressed a preference for Colonel
Roosevelt for the presidential candi
date. The other two were non-committal.
The contest for the selection of a
national committeeman appeared to
le between Ralph H. Cameron of Mar
icopa county and M. E. Cassidy of Co
cHise county.
Although an effort wag made to have
Another sign read:
'We are Saxons and if you don't
fire we won't."
The Irishmen replied by playing an
Irish air and ."Rule, Hritainia," ori
mouth organs.
To Disarm Irish - .
NEW YORK, May 5. The asser
tion that the rebellion in Ireland,
Republican A. P. Leased Wjre
WASHINGTON, May 5. Publica
tion of the text of the Seott-Obregon
agreement for cooperative action
against bandits in Mexico still await
ed formal notification tonight that it
lias been apprdVed by General Carrun
za. Resident Wilson will make it
public as soon as word of its accept
ance by the de facto government
reaches him either from Mexico City
d'tect or from General Scott at El
Paso
The war department 1iad nothing
more than routine reports from the
I. order. Secretary Haker, however,
raid unofficial advices seemed to indi
cate a bettfr feeling among the Mexi
cans since tht military conference
was arranged. General Scott is ex
petted to return to Washington as
son as ho has exchanged acceptances
of the agreement with General Obre
(.on.
Advices to the state department re
ported that rail communication be
tween Vera Cruz and Mexico City had
been interrupted since May l. No
explanation as given. Other report
made public said quiet prevailed in
various parts of Mexico hei.rd from.
rending it:( publication , the Scott
Oljregon agreement is being closely
guarded. Only Secretary Tinker and
his immediate advisers in the war de
partment and Secretary Ionising, and a
lew state department officials have
seen it. Secretary Hiker reiterated
today that all information given out
concerning the agreement would come
from the white house.
A long detailed Account of his dis
cussirns with Genera' Obregon was
included in Genera' Scott's telegram
transmitting tpe agieement. It is im
probable that any portion of this will
be made public.
The Mexican embassy received no
word during the day regarding the
boidtr situation. Lacking official in
formation thst the proosed plan was
acceptable to General Carranza no
step was taken by Eliseo Arrendondo
ambassador-designate. toward get-
Poth French and (Herman
Official ( 'onimunications
Admit Germans Have
Gained Foothold in the.
French Advanced Trench
NO REPLY TO GERMAN NOTE
UNITED STATES WILL WAIT
EVIDENCE OF GOOD FAITH
H
IT
work of endorsing candidates for state made by Robm E Ford of the lrlsn
officers, it was believed the activities !Wnrl,i in telegram ent tii?ht to
wnicn organ on piu a causeu . ,( . 8ni,)ment, 0f ammunition now
at
It Is understood this will l2
.hv the nrennration rtf the authorities i -..!. .. i . ...
the convention tomorrow take ud the'.: ;,V"" v..,. ..v. .",... ... I ' """" r mm.on souen-
, lu UIR.1I III Hie It mil V mull irri a, nan
of the meeting would be confined solely I
to the selection of delegates to the na-J
tional convention.
(By Lyle Abbott)
TUCSON, May 5. Fen Hildreth and
Mike Cassidy are considered elimin
ated and tomorrow's fight in the state
republican convention will be between
Cameron and Delay. Claiming nine
counties and conceeding Cameron 99
votes, inclusive of Maricopa's instruct
ed 71, anti-nomination forces will en
I w.iru.
ticxt aspect of the situation to lie nre-
rented to the state department if the
border agreement is ratified
With :i vigorous campaign in pro
Secretary of State Lansing.
Included in the telegram was a
- 1 T . 1 . I . . 1
copy oi o.oers .r. ro.o oecmreu .uiu , nganMt th? Jp frcf ln the
been issuer", by the military authorl-' ,he f()rces Jn Uie
ties to arrest all leaders of the Sinn Mm,h an(J ,he ((? fa.tQ V(.rnmcnt
r fiiitis. i nvnv uiuem, lit? miiu., wnc , . a.-a n... t..... t
reau i a ni.-ei.iis i mc win.,, -"- , u Vflll.tn. In tho nnr.h iho mar nn-
. . . . : ,. t n -. .i ......... v.a 1
IMji.wuil UN JiJJ 1. aim v-.c """li.lv ,,:..tin uill h. '.m,.rtnt
icome effective upon receipt of an
order from the chief secretary's office
'. in Dublin castle.
1 A telegram was sent to President
1 .in i... T..V... t . xt x. .!:.. : "
ter the convention ut 10.00 o'clock to- ' - ' obregon and Geticral Venust!ano Car
morrow morning to struggle for an in- j f cre,ary "r lne ,enas lrlH" ranza over the the tentative agree-
structed delegation, one that will use fj ' . a7w"B , ment for American and Mexican co-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Gains for the Germans northwest of
Verdun are . chronicled in loth the
French and German official communi
cations. North of Hill S04 the (ier
mans gained a footing in French ad
vanced trenches and also occupied
French positions west of Avoeourt
and several trenches southeast of
Huucourt. Repeated French attacks
against German positions west of Ie
Mort Homme broke down under the
German fire.
Inclement weather is hampering the
infantry operations, according to the
latest official communication from
I'aris. and bombardments alone now
are taking plave. ' Hill 34, north
west of Verdun, Is receiving a bom
bardment of increased intensity.
In Uie region of the Adamello
ridge, on the Austro-ltalian line, the
fierce fighting which has been in
progress for nearly a week continues
unabated. The Italians are heavily
shelling the Tolmlno bridgehead and
there have been artillery due's along
the Tyrol front.
German attempt. to dislodge the
Russians from captured positions
southeast of the Olyka Station have
met with failure, according to I'etro
grad, as also have German attacks on
Rusisan trenches near the Tarnopol
I'eerna railway.
Near Raiburt, Asia Minor, the
Turks ngain have assayed an attack
gainst tlie Russians, but have been
repulsed. Night attacks by the
Turks near Bitlis also were put
own. Near Krzingan the Russians
aptured Turk trenches and killed or
t'ok prisoner their occupants.
Two additional Zeppelins have been
ifstroyed, one in the North Sea, off
he coast of Schleswig, and the other
t Saloniki. Hritish cruisers de
stroyed the first, 'which apparently
was out scouting, while the guns or
the "entente allies fleet at Saloniki
brought down the second. The Zep
pelin wrecked on the cotist of Nor
way several days ago has been blown
up by Norwegian soldiers, because it
rolling dangerously in a strong
wind.
The Germans on the west front
shot down twenty-six entente allied
aircraft during April, but themselves
ost twenty-two machines, according
to .Merlin.
Great Rritain will accede to the
American demand and release Ger
mans ana Austrians removeu iroin
tho American steamer China in the
Pacific ocean some time ago.
Waiting Carranza's Approval
i:L PA HO, Tex., May a. Telegraphic
I exchanges between General Alvaro
its judgment about recommending a i
national committeeman after the color
of the Chicago convention has been
determined.
All elements of opposition to Cam
eron are combined on a program. At
first, the word went out that Judge
R. K. Sloan was to be made chairman
of the convention, with the idea of dis
crediting Maricopa county in its fight
for Cameron and Judge Kent. Later,
however, Maricopa leaders seemed in
clined to side In for Sloan, inasmuch
as the outside counties conceded the
big county would be ptaced In the clear
as regards hogging the convention. If
this is true, the squabble over Sloan
will fizzle nut like wet rocket. He
ill be named with great unanimity,
and the rest of the program will be
rushed through.
While conceding that Maricopa
county would cast 71 votes for Camer
on, Ned Creighton la opposing his nom-
niatron by this convention. Secretary I
Tommy Maddock of the state central
committee, will in the absence of
Chairman Kibbey, call the meeting to
order. At the time this is written, Joe
Kleindienst of Navajo is to be recog
nized immediately with a motion to
nominate Judge Sloan. This .was ad
mitted by Maddock this evening and
by A. H. Jaynes, of Tucson, who also
said that Maricopa county would be
made to swallow Sloan regardless of
its desire not to prejudice the conven
tion against the chances of Cameron
and Kent.' Creighton stated that he be
lieved the true inwardness of the fight
would be found tied up wth the nation
wide contest' between Roosevelt and
through Ambassador Page at Lon
don, a "square deal" for James M.
Sullivan, former United States min
ister to San Domingo, who was ar
rested in Dublin in connection with
the recent uprising.
"The principles of humanity," Mr.
Ford said in his telegram, "demand
for James M. Sullivan, whether he Is
guilty or not guilty, a fair trial In the
open before a civil tribunal- We hold
it is the imperative duty of the ad
ministration to act promptly, firmly
and effectively."
o '
EDWARDS DiES OF WOUNDS
- Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OTTAWA, Ont.. May 5 John F.d-
wards of Salt Luke City has died of
wo'inds, according to the Overseas
operation In the scattering of Vllllstas
bandits have been completed, :t was
;i id tonight.
It is ex)ected that General obregon
Will hold his next conference with
General Hugh L. Scot tomorrow on
the American side of the Rio Grande
and that a protocol covering the agree
ment Wiil then be drawn up.
It has been the expectation of Gen
er.ils Scott and Funston that the final
meeting with General Obregon would
take place today. At the last moment
however, it was learned that General
Cairanza still held to the opinion that
the American troops should set a def
Inlte and early date tor withdrawal
It was said that a large part of today
was spent by the Mexican official
casualty list. Issued tonight by the ... . ...c.g .... .
militia department.
(Continued on l'age Two)
HnprqnniuTnniQPnw
1 1 U I LUUUIl IUUIUI UULUI
MANY MATTERS BEFORE HOUSE
VIEWS THE MOTE
Tucson Star. The Ccrnian govern
ment has not met with demands made
by President Wilson and it has there
fore deliberately invited the conse
quences which must follow. It is re-call-d
that the Lusitunia . as sunk
more than a year ago an I no settle
ment has been made. Its offer of
further negotiations ho'.ds out noth
ing of hope or assurance to neutrals.
The American note was America's
last word. It only remains to .punc
tuate it. .
Germany's Assurances May Be Accepted and Before
Taking Another Step United States May Await Ful
fillment of Her Latest Promises President Wilson
is Described as Being !in Position Where He Cannot
Question Good Faith of Germany's Assurances Which
Must Stand or Fall by Future Conduct of Her Sub
marine Commanders
Douglas Dispatch Tic German note
follows about the same lines as pre
vious ones from Herlin. being evasive.
Ily making her promises cntingent
upon the succo-s of Wilson's negotia
tions w ith On at Rritain, Germany Is
wholly dodging the spirit ot the de
mands by the president. The note
only postpone. a diplomatic break.
rSisbce Review If the people nf the
United States can read anything but
a temporary makeshift of a guarantee
in the (iert.i.in reply ours is ceitainly
a gullible public. The fact remains,
howev r. that tlermany has again
"passed the bu k."
F.l Paso Times The time for a firm
Hand in our dealings with Germany
has arrived. The United States gov
ernment notified the imperial German
government that ruthless submarine
warfare must cease immediately or
diplomatic relations would be severed.
We must not yield.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WA811L'(1T0X, May 5. Germany's note has post
poiied, if it actually has not averted, a diplomatic break
with the United States. t
President Wilson, will make the decision after he has
read the official text which reached the state department
late tonight by cable from Ambassador Gerard at Berlin.
It will be deciphered in time to lay it before the president
tomorrow morning.
It was stated authoritatively after the cabinet meeting
today that if the official text bore out the unofficial ver
sion transmitted in today's Berlin news dispatches, Ger
many's assurances undoubtedly would be accepted, and
before taking another step the United States would await
the lull diluent ot her latest promises.
In such case, the United States might not reply to the
note and Mould await evidence of the actual abandonment
of Germany's present practices of submarine warfare
which is declared. , President Wilson is described bv
those close about him as being in a position where he can
not question the good faith of Germany's assurances,
which must stand or fall by the future conduct of her sub
marine commanders.
Albuquerque, N. M., Journal The
order to the submarine commanders
f carried out. meets the demands of
tlie United St:aes. All the rest of
Herr von Jagow's note is intended for
be people of Germany and had no
aPd place in a diplomatic communi
ntion to this government.
Germans Are Repulsed
PATHS, May a. West of the Meuse,
Germans yesterday evening stro.igly
attacked French positions north of
Hill 304, says tho official statement
this afternoon, hut they were re
pulsed along the whole front attacked
except in one or two points in the
advanced trenches.
An attempted attack on the
trenches at Cappy. south of the
Somtne. the statement adds, com
pletely failed.
Fast of the Meuse and ln the
Moevre. there was an intermittent
bombardment.
Another Steamship Sunk
LONDON, May H. The Hritish
steamer Ruabon, 2,004 tons, has been
sunk by a submarine, according to
Lloyd's. The crew was picked up by
tlie Italian steamer Misurata.
The British liner Clan MacFayden
has arrived in (Iravesend from Africa
somewhat damaged by the gunfire of
two German submarines. The steam
er returned the fire and it was be
lieved on board that one of the sub
marines was destroyed.
There was great Jubilation in Sa
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Five)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 5. Democratic
leaders in the house tonight were
hopeful nf disposing of the army con
ferees' disagreement report and the
rural credits and shipping bills within
the next 10 days.
The Porto Rican bill will be laid
aside tomorrow according to a plan
Fight Over Recommendation
For National Committeeman
Republican A. P. Leasa Wirt i onougii votes to assure himself of the
TUCSON, Ariz., May 6. Caucuses choice,
of the state delegates to the WViizoraX j Beside national committeemen, six
republican convention .o be held here delegates to the Chicago convention
tomorrow have revealed that the biff will be chosen.
fight will be for recommendation Tor! Fully one half of the delegates had
national committeeman. Ralph H. arrived in Tucson' early tonight. The
Cameron of Phoenix, claiming 104 del- ; Maricopa county delegation, accom
t gates of 227, Is opposed by a force panicd by several delegates from the
v.hlch is said to control the delegates rorthern counties will arrive tomor
from nine of four counties In the row morning in a special train. Tom
stale. Michael H Cassidy of Blsbee Maddox of Coconino county, chairman
nnd Fen S. Hildreth of Phcenlx, lead-j of the convention, will open the ses
ing the opposition, are also candi- j clou at 10 o'clock tomorrow. Caucuses
dutes and while their combined forces to complete the organization of the
will probably balk, Cameron asplr- convention and to draw tip resolutions
atlons, neither can-control at Resent! were ln session late tonight.
v 9 . .
Majority Kitchen outlined to his col
leagues, and attention turned to the
ruri'l credits bill, already passed by
the senate. Mr. Kitchen Introduced a
rule limiting general debate on the
measure to six hours which will be
reported to the house tomorrow,
' On Monday the rural credit bill will
be laid nslt!e for consideration of the
report of the house conferees on the
r-rmy bill.
Reporting that the house conferees
hLd been Unable to agree with the
senate members. Representative Hay
tonight obtulned unanimous consent to
consider the senate's 250,0(0 regular
army, the federal volunteer army and
the nitrate plant proposals, to deter
mine what the future stand of the
house conferees shall be on them.
Pueblo Chieftain The Germans
)ave beaten the president at his own
game of academic debate. They have
ieided nothing and pledged nothing,
nit the administration policy, if con
sistent, will be to make believe that
omcthing has been done and wait
to see what will happen next.
Colorado Springs Gazette Ger
many s mood is still that of a mad
man and sho is not ready to meet
he question. We cannot grant more
time. A diplomatic break seems the
onlv way nut.
Tlie German embassy's view is that
the note gives all President Wilson
asked for; that it signalizes a return
to "cruiser warfare" the use of sub
marines as regultir naval cruUsers In-
ticeepting ships with visit and search
and that inasmuch as it makes no
mention of the armed ships, that per
plexing feature of the controversy is
not involved.
Congress took the note quietly and
constituted a peaceful merchant ship,
entitled to tlie protection of Inter
national law and cfthe president's
steadfast determination not to permit
the Interests of the United States wltb
ono of the belligerents to become en
tangled with those of another.
The United States only recently,
deHaring its views on the rights of
expressed a variety of views. 'n the merchant ships on the high seas.
surface there was no sign of activity i recognized nd provided for the con-
in the group which has been working ' dlt'0" under whtch Germany charges
to prevent the president from press
ing the situation to a point of diplo
matic rupture. '.'
Cabinet members went over the un
official text carefully with the presi
dent- and while they
British merchant ships by orders of
the Rritish admiralty, actually are
acting as naval war vessels in attack
ing submarines.
j Germany .in her note reserve "corn-
States fail to prevail upon
iiti ifiit-ml v ru. 1 ' "
view that a break' had" been averted: : Great Bfritain to 1bJins. "" Practices
that Germany's new assurances would '"t0 co"Cormlty with ""ational law-,
i ., -i i . . ,r i ...1.1. The official view is that the United
be accorded the test of tim notwitli- ...
t ,.,.); .v, . ; States for some time nas ybeen and
standing the reference to the action . .
nf ri,,,., th fni. ct:,t1now 18 conducting diplomatic corre-
sponueoce w mi ureal oriiain on mat
Providence Rulietin It (the note)
in a brutal mockery of the wounds
again and again inflicted upon us. It
is a series of studied insults added to
long inventory of injuries. The
president must prove that the lofty
sentiment he has so often reiterated
nro not empty words.
to take agiiinst Great KrUaln's re
straints n neutral trade. They ex
press this view with full realization
nf the differences of opinion on what
New York Fveniiig Sun. We cor
dially hope our government may find
in this note the solution of our diffi
culty, but as a general indication, ns
respects the prospects of peace, it
fills us with gloom. Plainly Germany
not in the humor yet to heej
the counsels of wisdom or humanity.
She is still world-defiant.
Nov.' York Kvening Telegram The
two nations are so far ap.irt that fur
ther discussion is a mere waste of
time. Germany, as expected has put
the matter up to the United States.
Defense Rests
Fay's Case To
Jury Monday
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. May 5 The defense
ln the trial of Lieutenant Robert Fay
of the German army, his brother ln
law, Walter Schclz. and Paul Daeche,
in the United States district court on
charge of conspiring to destroy muni
tions ships, rested late today. Judge
Howe adjourned court until next Mon
day when, it is expected the case will
go to the Jury.
Most of the day's session was occu
pied by the testimony of Paul Daeche,
who took the stand in his own de
ferse. He denied all knowledge of
Fay's aheged bomb plot and declared
he had not seen the Lieutenant's rud
Eighty minutes debate will be allowed A(.T ),omb until it was demonstrated in
on the nitrate plant proposal . an
forty minutes cn each of the other
two.
The nltiate plant provisions has been
court. He explained his connection
with Fay by saying that ho believed
the lieutenant to. be a purchaser of
supplies for his government and, that
granted the major part of the time j as a German reservist, he was compel-
largely because of the president's in
slstence that it be adopted ln the face
of deep rooted house opposition.
Tho shipping bill was completed to-
led to carry out Fay's orders.
Daeche asserted he was coerced by
(Continued on Page Two)
c
Berlin Hopes
Conflict Will
Be Avoided
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BF.RL1N, May 6. (Via London.)
The German answer to the American
government's note with regard to
Germany's submarine warfare has not
yet been published here and the news
papers generally refrain from any at
tempt to anticipate its contents or to
forecast the consequences which may
fol.ow. The Lokal Anzeiger, however,
prints the following statement:
"Judging by what we have been able
to learn concerning the spirit of the
Geiman answer to America, we cher
ish the expectation that the sense of
justice of the American people whicb
was emphasized in the American note
will come into its own
"Xhe concession made bj Germany
is siuh as the dignity of the empire
demands, solely.
"The German standpoint can less be
subjected to jqst criticism because o!
the fact that to the best of our know
ledge it rests uion the basis of writ-
subject and the success or failure of
the negotiations and Germany's con-
continued on Page Two)
TIN
Republican A.P. Leased Wire .president and Secretary Lansing. The
WASHINGTON, May 5. The first President has already discussed with
his cabinet the steps to be taken in
ortions of the German note were . , . . t .
1 case the note was found to be un
read by officials here with undis- . satisfactory
guised disappointment The' tone of , - Tne officiai text is expected to be
thefirst portions was of such charr here before Sunday, the anniversary of
acter that some feared a break in 'the sinking of the Lusitania. It was
diplomatic relations was forecast. generally expected that whatever ac-
The unofficial copy was sent to ' tion is taken by the American gov-
President Wilson as rapidly as it was ernment probably will come on that
received. He had no engagement to- ; day.
day outside of the cabinet meeting ' The president has already informed
which was expected to be devoted congress of his intention to break re
almost exclusively to the German sit- i. rations with Germany in case her
uation. ' reply is unsatisfactory and Xherefore
No action will be taken until the ! it is believed he has decided not to
official text of the note has arrived , go before congress again before tak
here and has been studied by the ing the action.
day by the merchant marine commit-I Tunney, head 'of the police "bomb
tee and will be reported to the house j squad," denied the accusation. He also
Tuesday and taken up immediately denied that he had promised immun-
the police into making , his alleged i ten International law and humanity
confession. Culled in rebuttal, Captain ' repeatedly emphasized by America."
The Vossiche Zeitung says: .
"Or.r investigations made after the
Britain Sees Insolence In
Germany's Reply To Note
Republican A, P. Leased Wire j "The essential fact is that America's
LONDON, May 6. Interest with specific demands are at every point
which Germany's reply to the United j either completely evaded or met by a
States was awaited here could hardly j concession so emasculated by the con
have been exceeded in America. All j dition of which it hangs as to be a
the evening ne-wspaner yesterday j flat refusal. 1
printed the note prominently by sec- j Tho Kxpress characterizes the Ger
tions in successive editions. The great- i men reply as "insolent, cynical and
est curiosity was expressed as to the , dir.ingenuous," and declars it is an
leception of the note by the United ' ultimatum "because it means thaf un
States. j less thi United States attempts to
The morning news papers, almost ; force the allies to raise the seige of
without exception print editorials or. i Germany, Germany will continue to
the nite and express more or less sim- j kill haphazard. It is humbug and an
ilar opinions on it. Insult to American intelligence.
"It can only mean a break between ; "Germany has not the means of
America and Germany," says the Daily : fighting at sea, according to the rules,
News "The phraseology of the Ger- ' and therefore claims the right to fight
man reply, which manifestely was de- ! agair.Ft the rules and asks the United
signed to impress the German people j States to aid and abet her. In effect,
with the justice of their cause and to . Germany says to America: "You will
throw the onus of her'action on Amer- I refu?e to sell munitions to the allies
ica Is in iteif but calculated effronty pnd If yon will help us to break Great
to impel the government of a powerful, Britain's power at sea. we will try not
and independent people to action. .to murder any more of your citizens.'"
note was delivered, uhow that political
after disposition of the rural credits j lty to Daeche and Fay in return for circles cherish the hope that a conflict '
measures Mr. Kitchen said tonight. money. , with America will be avoided."
Full Text of Note on Page 3
