American F&rk Citizen f
.XIV AMEIIICAN l-'OniC CITIZUN, SATUIU)Xy, MAY 6. 1910. M'MHEll 3 ifl
lig Pacific Fissure
Widens, to 30 Feet
tTRlOAN FORK CANYON PROPERTY HAS MOST SEN
ATIONAL STRIKE MADE IN STATE THIS YEAR
PPEARS TO BE BIGGEST BODY OF HIGH GRADE
IBB TO BE FOUND. IN UTAH.
It was Ipm-mmI from iinrfies who cainc down from tlic
'nnvon tlii" week Hint the Pacific fissure lind developed
uch innnt'iisi' proportions, that instead of it being cullcil a
ecoml Cnnliff, the latter mine was likely to be known as a
cconcl Pacific. Last week Messrs. Dooliltle and Miller
mdnn cnpiiuu'r niako a survey of the workings, and blue
irints of the properly will soon be gotten out. At that
imo pjunpli's were taken of the 18-foot crosscut from Hie
nmiol to the hanging wall, which showed the big vein to
ivcragc $50 per ton, and the last 14 inches to carry 51. 2
mnccs in silver and 22.7 per cent, copper.
This was considered phenominnl, but at that time Mr.
Killer said that he was not sure that ho had yet gotten to
he foot wall. Since, however, he has driven to the foot
vail, n distance of 12 feet, the last foot of which is a casing
if copper glance, similar to that on the hanging. This
fives the fissure a total width of :?0 feet, 20 inches of whi.-h
ontnins values that make, n car load worth over $25,000.
I The Pacific fissure has been proven for a distance of
00 feet. Mr. Miller has drifted on it to the north on the
nnnel level for over 400 feet and to the south for another
00 feet, nnd was in either milling or shipping ore all the
rny. This is the first lime that he has crosscut to the
to walls. Tpralses have been made 500 feet to the sur-
Baeeand adrift, run out from the 100 fool station above the
Rnmcl level. The Pacific people have at least .1,000 feet
Hatlie strike of the vein and probably 4,500 feet. As the
Hreishigger and richer on the tunnel level than any place
Bbovo, It is almost a cinch that immense bodies lie helow.
Hrliich taken all in all, makes the Pacific one of the biggest,
If not the biggest mines In the state. The men have now
Boinohack from the- fnce of llu? tunnel and will crosscut in
Htlicr places.
1 STATE LETS
SflONNEL CONTRACT '
W Day State Mining Ci. this week
V new contract to Holier City pnr
H to extend the lower or Kelley
Be! 100 feet further nito tho hill.
thitu wero put to work on tho
1 met Monday Soon ns this 100
. Is finished another 100 feet will'
't. which It i thought will tnko
fiea of th0 tunnel unilcr tho ore
allr encountered ubovo.
i engineer went up tho ennyon
rdsy to make n survey of the
State workings and to tnoro de
lj" locate Just wlicio a cross-cut
t.5 most advantageously a tin. Tho
any men who hnvo been working
tunnel have hoen taken out
ill be put to work getting out n
i Hot oro for rhlpmont while silver
lad .art soaring,
H - n
fi RAT CLEARING
I HJR ACTION
M'-'Silver I'lnr Mining Co.. one of
Mt In the district, is propur-
to rcjuniH development work on
M time property In the Deer
'Silver Lnko section of the
" ThIs Property (n the 70'u wns
as tho -old Nebraska." No
r mcn carried nbout $8,000
V ' rich copjtor-sllver-lcad oro
w burros Tho present owners
wen doing annual assessment
o the Rioup of claims for the
ycars Over 1,200 fcc.t of
" haT been run. Heeont tie
nt in t10 ennyon has shown
&rstcm of flssurlng niul por-
a3 hns a juncUon on sllver
J'0"'1'1' "nil tho management
ia" "a miners drifting from ono
B,,11 tunnols to search for ore
" Juncture.
mm listed
BfrilnV w w" l,ml n n'1 of
Bill 15 thp lciu,"'K Balt iJko
BuL ,,! 10000 Hhnr0H ,f
m lrenBury filock nl ?c )0r
B'i l"3. ",aw ,l wock tho cn"ro
I'ri;: - - "
Bftl'4r!r "11lH lm"nlso l "
gait",.!! 'h'" B'0tlt wnH llft,oa
B'torjiic x'll""g0 nn,l Btnrtod
B fI-il)ir ' K ' ' '"'' nml ,in8 B,nco
B &a y ''" r"u' of n'oiit ono
cr :5 " n ono predicting n
Thl- too h In tho
face of an issuo' at 7 cents anil the
strong temptation at profit sharing
on such n big issue.
E. V. Nlssen, tho eminent mining
englncor, went tip tho ennyon yoster-UnyIomakca.iirvoyoJCJo-jTiaiix
workings of tho projicrty niiii "wittt
Charley Tyng, tho comimn's now mnn
agor. will loeato whcio n bunch of
minora will bo put to work.
All tho main fissures In tho Canyon
have a northeast-southwest trend, so
that It Is more Chun likely that the lilt;
strike in the Pacific nnd tho direc
tion In which the big fissure points
toward Whirlwind territory is having
much to draw detention to tills newly
'listed slock.
CIIICACO II. A. .11. ('(Hll'AXY
A yil (OM'Olt.VTlON.
Chicago Mining and Milling Co. has
lilod articles of incorporation with
I5ie county clerk. American Fork Is
jihe principal plnce ct business. Tho 4
upltnl stock Is $30,000 in shares of .
'be par vnliio of 5 tents each based "
on tho valuation of the Osborno and 4
Osborne Xob. 2 to G mining clnhns In
Ameilcan Kork ennyon. Tho direct-
ors and otllcors ore: O. Osborne, ,
piosldenf. A. J. Osborne, vlco prosi-
tleni; Jonepli Walton, secretary and i
treasurer; Horace Chlpman Iloek ami
Mrnjiiinlu Y. Oreonwood.
This Is tho re-Incorporation of tho i
old Osborne Mining Co., for which a
t reel-, or 1ms been asked by W. I.
Moyle
ALPINE EMPIRE ;
IN GOOD GROUND -
I'liM .VI,(I00 Trensury Slock Sold
Ciiiinii) Issue Now Mii of The
('nii)on.
The Alpine Ktnplro Mining Com- (
jinny, who recently started oporatlaiis
nt the head of Door Creek, appear to '
hnvo gotten Into clover early. They ro-
cently gnvo the printers on ordor to
got out n now map of the district and ,
a pamjihlot telling facts nbout tho
property. Even before tho book hnd
gotten Into tho hnnds of tho public tho '
first allotment of CO.OOO shares of
treasury stock hnd been absorbed, ,
and tho second 23,000 at 10 cents per
share Is being rajildly absorbed. Tills
means tho Company will hnvo no
need to worry over finances for dove-
lojiment purposes. ;
On top of this comes tho good ncwH ,
of a strike of six Inches of high grndo
copper ore encountered In a drift be
ing run Into tho llmo from tho limo
granite contact nt a distance nbout
200 feet In from the mouth of the
tunnel. A director's meeting was
bold this week and it was decided to
liifrenso the number of men cmjiloy
od just ns soon as additional quarters
for their convenience can be nrrnng-Icd.
MISS NIELSON US ,
HONORS IN ORAM
SKSIiikes f7iiiipfo finiT J. ;l. ron
lests. Miss Ixirctta Melson of this city
with her oration on "Tho Mcnsuir
nnd Destiny or Women" won tho hon
or of going to tho general M. I. A.
contest In Salt Lake that will bo held
In .Tune, anil 'Eldor Ilcbcr J. Orant
predicted 'in Qunrtorly Conference
that she 1ms n most excellent chnncc
or wining there. Thors wero six
contestants one each from tho six
Stakes of Alpine, Utah, Ncho, Wa
satch. Cnilion nnd Unltnlt. Tho Jud
ges wero Professors Anderson, Fox
nnd llorsf.tll nil of tho U I). S. Unler
sity. who declared that Miss Nlelson
won by 80 jioluts ns against a young
liulj from Holier who scored S3 1.3
I
Seek Pacific Fissure ;
On Miller Hill
0 W JJarl Will Form Liuff "Company and r JJg
Tunne! to Cut Biff Fissure 6 n its SouHiwest Strake Work
to Conunonoe Soon.
Charles W. Earl has signed uji a
lease with the Jesse Knight interests,
on the eastern section of tho Mlllur
Hill ground tho section ill rough
which tho extension of the 1'nciflc
flssuro is supposed to traverse. Ho
will form a leasing company at once,
nnd before tho end of tho month, will
have a force of miners nt work driving
a tunnel Into the hill to Intersect the
richest proven fissure In the Canyon.
Ho will loeato the audit of his tunnel
on tho Scotchman No. 2 claim, near
tho crock bed nnd drive Into tho hill,
so ns to Just miss tho south end of
Illuo Itock No. 3 of tho Pacific hold
ings. Tho Pacific flssuro is so strong nnd
regular that no ono doubts Its enter.
Ing Mlllor Hill territory, but just
whom it will cross tho line dividing
ho two properties only tho driving
of tho tunnol can toll. Whothor it
ciosscs out of tho sldo or end lines of
Illuo Hock No. 3 will niako hut little
dlfforenco to tho Mlllor Hill people,
becnuso thoro Is an agreement bo
tween tho two companies that vorti
cal sldo linos will govern nnd not
npox rights. This will moan that oven
If tho big vein cuts through Illuo Uoek
No. 3, Miller Hill will soon hnvo It.
for Its dip of botween CO and CO do
Bices would tnko It Into Miller Hll
through the blo linos, bo thnt it is
jirobablo that tlio Knight peojilo will
hnvo 4,300 feet on the vein, If It con
tinues on Its present clip and strike.
All mining men wo have made a
study of tho Canyon, ngrco thnt the
solunblc lime has eroded off tho toj
part of tho big fissure, on much of
the Pnelflc ground, but thnt where
It cuts tho Miller Hill this llmo Is
still In plncc. and besides making rich
suljihldo oro In tho underlying rjuart
zlte, It should mnko imincnso bodies
of enrbonato oro In tho overlying lime.
Of all tho now woik being Btnrtod
this sjirlng. none will attract mom
attention from the mining fraternity
that tho search for tho Pacific flssuro
In MiHor Hill territory. Mr. Earl
proposes too, that their curiosity shall
bo satisfied nt an enrly date, for ho
jirojioses using power drills, fnnning
machinery and threo shifts Just as
soon ns power can bo Rotten Into tho
Canyon. No one has more faith In
the Canyon than Mr. Enrl, nnd his
many friends nro congratulating him
on his securing tho lenso that others
hnvo fnllod to got.
Pacific l.enslng stock Is bolng quot
ed as worth $900,000. while tho last
quotation on tho mlno gives It a vnlui
of S2I0.000, a total of $1,110,000. Mr.
Earl's friends hope that his lenso will
l,,w funnily m mlunble
& .;H
I PAINT UP PlTJZtPPl REPAIR H
ijYour Fences, -xJS Replenish and JH
- Houses, Sheds J&StK. & - XJSB Repaint. , iB
and Barns. pJSMlf " K !fll
i' If you paint yoiu . 11
IT'S A PRETTY GOOD PLAN TO barn, your Iioubo H
MaII kinds Paint, SHINOUJ or your shed it will B
ifywuish and Oils lMmv th, roof btius lo 1,-nk; look better and .H
if constantly on hand !l's. ',TUy -00'1 ,,,,m lo lmt,,:n I IH
w l?t'liii( tin- wiml begins to shriek. , lH
1 1 depend ' th tWayS ItS a lirctty g00tl lau to l)uiIrt Gomo sllclls 1
Mhave a jrood s,m 'r kl,ll tini?s K- cover- Let us fiffuro with B
I&nlv Tllf' l)1nvs' l'Iivalor, bliidcrs you for your J lH
p y' And one tiling and another. Paints, Varnishes B
Jft And you'll find it a prcttygood plan nnd Wal1 Paer- ' J H
41 To Let Us Figure Your . .. i
'i rr Lumber and Building Material Bills 4 ) 'B
I OHIPMAN LUMBEH YARD ' H
$ IWHEN YOU NEED RUBBER BOOTS FOR IHRIGATIONYOU OAN GET THEM l H
f WE HAVE THE CHEAP KIND AND WE HAVE THE BEST GOING. EVERY- ,iH
4 J THING IN PRICE EVERTHING INEQUALITY. WE DO NOTSELLONORED-,, ;"'H
4 ! IT, BUT WE DO SELL ON A SMALL MARGIN FOR CASH Ntll
1 Ghipiuau's Gash Prices Count J !,
1 REMEMBER THE C B, R. S "M
: Chipmans Big Red Store. ; yl
2'tt AMERICAN FORK, UTAH, "THE BUSINESS CENTER." . HlhiH
Wu MM
OUR ADS WORK WONDERS REACHES ALL THE . jjfl
PEOPLE IN THE jNORTH END OF UTAH COUNTY. il
und the Ilober contostnnt was a jirn
fesslonal lenchor of elocution.
Thcro wero nlso contests In mnlo
qunrtottos and ladles quartettes. Tho
llttlo ward of Tlmjinnogas us of tho
Utah Stako wining In both Instnncos.
Prof. Peabody wns the music adjudi
cator. After the contest!!, the oinccrs or
the Aljilno Stnko M. I. A. cntortnlncd
their visitors nnd otlier town folk nt
a complimentary ball In tho Amuse
ment room till tho nrilvnl or the mid
night :nr.
LOCAL DEPARTMENT
HIGHLY EFFICIENT
Ameilcan Fork boasts of one of the
most elllclcnt Hinnll flro dojinrtments
In tho state. Ttccontly a test wns made
ns to how quickly n run could bo mado
from headquarters on church street
to tho vacant lot oposlto the Grant ho
tel on lower Main St., unreel tho hose,
connect on tho hydrant and have the
water jtlaylng on an Imnglncry fire
A $.'.00 Jirizo wnB offered if could
lie dene In 2 1-2 mlnuten
Tim Lcs wero loafing around the
department when soino ono turn
ed In the nlnnn at tho City
Hall. In short order tho hoso
enrt e.ni o clanging down Main Street,
attached behind nn nuto colng 40
miles nn hour, nenchlng tho hydrant
on tho corner of Main and 2nd West
streets, two firemen mado the connec
tion whllo tho hose cart sjied on Its
way. unreeling as It went. ' the
time tho vncnnt lot wns reached, tho
connection with tho hydrant wns
made, nnd by tho time tho hose was
out tho wntcr was turned and and
had reached tho other end Just as the
noslo had been scrowed Into pinto
Tho wntcr wns extinguishing the flic
In ono nilnuto nnd thlrt sreonds from
the tlino tho nlarm wns first turned In
O-ij - -
CHILDREN MAKE
INTERESTING EXHIBIT
For the pact werk the lake jiri
mary aioclntloni have bad on x'
bltlou in tho amusement room of tho
stnko Tabernacle nn exhibition show
ing the I'tnh pioneers nnd their trav
els nciosii tho jilalus. (Uass Is used
to Illustrate tho rivers ns thoy flow
through tho grassy jriiiliis or down
the mountains. Wngous nud oxen
nro mado of pasteboard and tho men,
women nnd children nro mado of rag
dolls. Tho hand carts nnd rafts are
inndo of wood.
Tho pioneers crossing tho Missis
. ( saiH
tjipl on rafts Is shown, also tho camp TvH
nt Winter (uartors. Herds of burfnlo HtflB
and bauds of Indians are shown on H
tho way. Utah l.nko, Jordan Hlvcr anil ' JH
Uicat Snlt Lake aro at tho Journey's , H
end In tho Vulloy of tho mountains. Si HlB
Hosldes this thcro nro hundreds of h '1M
snmiilcs of needle work by tho girls jjf ,B
nnd wood work by tho boys, showing I , H
tho luduslrlnl sldo of tho training re- , H
celvid in the association. ) jH
3 MORE DAYS OF THE iB
Big Automobile I
Contest I
- Af Tin: ) jtB
Briggs Pharmacy Co. H
BUY A DUE BILL FROM YOUR CANDIDATE and S JH
HELP HER WIN. Bf
, 1 in
CAPITAL PRIZE qprnNn PRT7T;1 j'
CHOICE OF SEVEN bkUOND iKIZL Hj
AUTOMOBILES LADY'S BRACELET Mm
OR WATCH I'WL
$350.00 IN GOLD. J ' HQ
THIRD PRIZE FOURTH PRIZE ' R
FRENCH IVORY TOIL- FANCY LAVALLIERE , I K
ET SET AND CHAIN. , 'VH
FIFTH PRIZE FANCY LOCKET AND CHAIN 'Hi
Hi
Contest Closes Monday Night May 8th i ;!
Briggs Pharmacy Co. I M
I SAN TOX DRUG STORE I ' ' ,H
! American Fork Telephone 99 I 1 J'iH
i mj ut t B I 4fl
i fill
L yi-mM
