Watch The Star!
Five hundred or to kids arc at the ball
gamr todav as the guest* of President Dug
dale and The Star. We're going to pull off
something else next week. Watch The
Star.
POLICE SMASH UP DRI G STORE
FIND EXPLOSIVES AMONG GOODS ON SHEL VES
Washington Believes the Submarine Issue Is Now Closed
POLICE LIVES
SAVED BY A
CHEMIST
J. J. Kelley'* "Art Palace." druc store and "soft drink" j
«porium. at 1313 and 1315 Fir>t avc., was completely
wrecked Saturday by Police Chief Beckingham's "Carrie;
Nation squad," who, while smashing the iixture> and stock
in trade discovered enough nitroglycerine and other high
explosives to have blown them and the entire building to
item-
Chief Beckingham's foresight caused him to send .1 chem-j
irt member of the city hospital staff with his raiders The
chemist found the explosives, fortunately, before the police
(in reached them and carried the death dealing chemicals
to safety.
HUGHES GETS
SUPPORT IN
. CONVENTION
By Abe Hurwtt*
NORTH YAKIMA, May •—
Wtaus attempt* to gain In
taMmint for Hughes thla aft-
WMon at the republican atata
seirvmtlcn may precipitate an
acrtmenloue fight In an other
wlae peaceable gathering.
Printed circulars against
Rooaevelt were much In evi
dence thla morning.
A majority of the delegate*
are believed ready to favor
Rooaevelt on a showdown, but
prefer to have the Chicago dele
gate* go unlnetructed.
The convention *** orf*nti»d
with Chtrles llebberd of Spokane
•> temporary chairman. He also
*111 be permanent chairman
The delegates were enthusiastic
•ad confident.
There Is but one fly In the olnt
*«t~non partisanship.
Printed arguments agalnat It are
ta drnilatlon
It li undoubtedly the blggeat ls-
In the state.
The platform romrnltten ts em
Jfcatlcai'.y against it
Preparedness, woman suffrage
■Bd a constitutional convention
*ere among the plank* recommend
•4 by the committed-
While some feeling existed among
East BMe delegates against the pre
tonventlon selection of three dele*
l*te*-at large from the West Side
Md onlv one from the Ka"' Hlfle, It
J» not expected to cause a fight on
•lie floor.
The "big four" agreed to by lead
•W are 8 A Perkins. Tacoma Kd
Jlßf. Port Townsend: Hcott Bone.
Jwttle, and Charles p. I,und, Hpo
lane.
If » fight ensues It will be upon
Bene.
V Tanner announced today
*• canflHify for reelection as at
"•rney ren»ral.
*J*yor 0111 declares he will sup
fit Henrr Mcf!rH» for governor,
•lid described George las a
®® rn 'ng glory, a dandv starter,
*w> g*t» lost. In the shuffle'
W6AR PRICES SOAR
Tb* prPe of nugar, already at
•'•cord mark, advanced j5 font*
r ''* T. local dealer* announced
•nta lomp make* 100 pound* of
•"i*r co»t |D 40.
W®®li Y®ns Bmi m
Skk Mina ft® JunH?
That's what so< icty i doing now, according to "The
r ' mr I Ali tor ' He think- all criminal are invalid mentally
OT Phy-ii ally
. So he put up a ho | tal and make* a specialty of treating
"iminals
One (l;,v, (icn I) v-■ hi appn ache- the "crime doctor" and
'* liim about hi wife, wh>> ha* a bulldog and a revolver.
Another day. .<< 1111 I lenborough, secretary to the I'irst
of thf \<!miralty, and u-pected of treason, asks him
•Of a sleeping p<>tion and disappears on his wedding day.
Hut y«.u liar) better read tin- mo-,t unusual story for your
?*'• Jt begin l ' next Monday and end- Saturday in The Star,
the next novel a-wcek, entitled, "The Crime Ductor."
Following the dUicmerj that an
extensive bootlegging clique wu
making Kelley'* It* hradquarter*.
It I* Mid. chief Becktngham sum
moned hi* squad of wreckers un
der IJeut. Dolphin Mid Sorjrt. Put
sam
"Oo In and commanded
Recklngham "Take a doctor
aVong to examine th« chemical*—
then wreck everything"
Ten minutes later an automobile
load of police huaktea disembarked
at tii* Art I'aiire. famous In Iks
days before prohibition for Its l«0.-
000 worth of painting*
Find Bottling Work*
The squid spread quickly thru
out the building and into It* three
sub-basement*.
In the »»"ond basement. Sergt.
Putnam discovered H Marrl. a Jap
invar bottling whisky. The room
•a* filled with k"s». harre!* and
bottles
"We're *t>ln* to smash your
placn. Kelley.' mid l.leut Dolphin
"Oh. I wouldn't do that said
Kelley "It's a shame. I'll lock
the door right now and give you
mr word of honor not another
thing will ever be aold in the place
1 ma* going to move out tomorrow,
anyway."
Kelley la Arrtal'd
"You're a dav too late." aald Dol
phin. "Wreck her. hoy*!"
"Don't do it." Kelley exclaimed
"You're under arre*t. Mr Kelley."
*ald the lieutenant. "I forgot to
tell you when we came in. but I
have a warrant for you."
"Here, bova." he went on. "take
Mr Kelley to the station and take
tbe*e other men. too."
H» Indicated M. Hchuber. the
bookkeeper, of .VMS 11th eve V ; It
O Thompson, registered pharma
c|*t. of ">519 Hrit ave N W., and
Harry Hutton, a clerk, of 718 Madl
•on *t.
$10,000 Damage Done
The police machine whirled
away with it* load of prisoner*,
while a crowd surged to the win
dow* and door*, watching the ate
men chop and rmofh.
All told about $i.OOO worth of
a toe k and approximately $7,000
worth of fixtures were wrecked.
Kelley'* valuable collection of pic
tures was saved.
These bootl'ggers, naid Chief
Becklngharn. "mum learn that I
mean bnglneaa. There* going to;
be no let-up to this wrecking bu*l
ne** until every one of them
quit*."
Find Men Drinking
Kelley'a place *n* raided and
the proprietor arrested on warrant* ,
Issued by Police Judge Cordon. 1m
me<llately after Chief ller-klnghiim
got the ja«t bit of evidence neces
sary.
Quantities of whisky and other
liquor* were found In every part
of the drug *tore and "soft drink"
resort. tt hen the police entered |
two men were *eat"d at a table i
drinking from a pint bottle of
whl*ky.
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAI DAHES TO PRINT THE NEWS~T~]
VOLUME 19
SEE OUR OWN SEATTLE ANNETTE KELLERMANS
Cynthia Grey Attends Women's "Splash" at the Seattle Athletic Club
BY CYNTHIA GKKY
Splash' Spla*h! SPI.ABH!
Thin Isn't a description of Annette Kellerrnan doing a deep m-a
diving *tunt, nor a write-up about a mermaid or siren of vaudeville
fame
It's all alKnit mm* of our own Seattle women who threaten to
splash thejnaelvea right Into the ela«* of professional mvlmmer* and
diver*.
They are members of the ladles' Auxiliary of the Seattle Athletic
club.
Yesterday they save a swimming and diving exhibition for their
women friends In the tank at the S. A. C.
If you weren't there, the above pictures will give you a small Idea
of what you misled
Hut don't get the Idea that Mis* or Mrs. Seattle Is forsaking bridge
and soi ial duties for swimming becuuae It affords a better chance for
vanity's display.
It In the love of the spoil Itself which attracts her
Mrs A. K I'arker. president of the auxiliary, said to me: "There
are two rea*onn why I llnd swimming *0 attractive. The first Is for
(lie pleasure I get from It. The second because It In beneficial phys
ically
Mr*. John Hpargur gave a clever exhibition of single over-hand
double kick
Mm. Parker Illustrated the breast stroke, which exercise* practical
ly every muscle in the body In a healthful and pleasant manner.
Miss Marguerite Brown gave an exhibition of the difficult Austra
lian crawl, which was first uwed by Kirhard Cavil], champion Alls
tralian swimmer, who surprise*! the world by making 100 yard* in f>B
seconds.
Others exhibited tliejr skill by leaping from swings and ring* and
making fancy dives
The ladles who participated were Mis* Veva Stetson. Mrs 101111
Hpargur. Miss t ou'tnncn Patterson Mis (I W Jeffs, Miss Marguerite
ftrown, Mrs. Frank Vance, Mrs (1. It. Coolsy, Mr* Prank J. Baxe, Mrs
A K Parker. Mrs Iteiley McCoy. Mrs. O. W Tatro, Mra. G. A. Lebmann
and Mr*. Joseph Diet hen
To quote the word* of one of the npei-tatorn: "It was HOMK party,
and they made SOMK SPI^AHH!"
SI A I 111, WASH., SATURDAY, MAY <>, l'M<>
Upper picture, frem left to right: Mra. O. W. Tatro. Mrs. O. R.
Cooley, Mr*. Frank J taxe, Mra. Frank Vance, wife of F. A. Vance,
iwlmming Instructor: Mr». A. E. Parker, president of ladles' auxil
iary; /Mr. Chet Mclntyre. Instructor at S. A. C.; Miss Constance
Patterson: Mrs. G. A. Lehminn. Mrs John Spargur; Miss Marguerite
Brown, Mrs. G. W Jeffs and Mrs. Relley McCoy.
Lower picture, from left to right: Mrs. Reiley McCoy, Mrs.
lahn Qnarnu* anH Mra A \A/ laf fa nnaari fr\ r Iha cnmkin*! a« <41..>
SEATTLE DOCTOR BACK FROM
WAR SAYS HE IS PRO-GERMAN
"The Fnglish are a de
cadent rate, and the knell
ha* sounded fur them as
a great nation."
After ten months in the
British field hospital ser
vice of Northern France,
I>r. \Vald<> Richardson, an
American surgeon, has
just returned here with
that firm conviction.
"I went to Kurope de
cidedly pro-British," he
declared to a Star re
porter today, "hut I have
come hack virtually neu
tral.
"1 saw enough at the
Muit. in the trenches and
hospitals, to eradicate
every favorable prejudice
I had entertained for the
English.
"A* fighting men, they have
not lived up to flielr tradition*.
"In the hospital* the wounded
have shown how little resistance
(he Londoner! have. And aw al
lifH, tliev have not won the respect
if the Krench
1 The entente. I am convinced,
will fall to plK'cw as soon as the
war ends
It I* now merely a nritter of
form, not of spirit
"The JVench. I am mire, will ex
press their opinion of lite insular
Kngllsh In no complimentary
terms when hoal!lltl«a cease
Predicts a Free Canada
' And I believe, from all the evi
dence I saw at Ihe front, that her
colonies will divorce Kngland when
this period of horror has passed,
Canada and Australia almost cer
talnlv,
"The Canadians have been open-
Iv disdainful and even hostile to
the fCnglish officers whose liom
hast has tn ide enemies instead of
(Continued on page 81
LUSITANIA TO BE
COMMEMORATED
A demonstration commpmorai
liir the sinking of the I.usltiinla
will take place In the Arena. Fifth
and Vnlverslty. Sunday afternoon
at 2:30 o'clock This Is the first
anniversary of the gigantic sea
disaster
Ministers of the city Hill urge
their congregations to !>• |ireseut.
George H. Walker will iirosldo.
AmoliK those to speak will hp
Itevs Hugh <1 Uoss, K. V Sha\
ler. Carter Helm Jones and 11. 11
Oowen
CEN I
BEST ITEM WE'VE
RUN ACROSS TODAY
The\ were putting on an Orien
tal film at a moving picture
place, and, to give a touch of local
color, the manager burned In the
auditorium those pungent. tai»er
llke things that are so generally ;
awed in Chlnetie Joss houses and 1
at summer reaorta in th» mosquito ;
belt.
A gentleman of a fussy aspect !
entered Me sniffed the air j
sharply and then addressed an j
usher
"Young man." he stated In the I
tone of one who Is not to be de
ceived, "I smell punk."
"How's that, sir?" asked the |
youth.
"I said," repented the severe
man. "that I smell punk."
"Oh, that's all right." said the
uflier, reassuringly. "I can let
you sit In a bo* where nobody II
nollce It " Saturday Evening
I'ost.
EIGHTH IRISH
LEADER SHOT;
TWO GET LIFE
lirnUN. May B John McHride,
Sinn Fein lender, lias heen shot, It
was officially announced today.
This was the eighth execution of
Irish rebel chiefs.
Two others condemtipd to die hail
their sentences commuted to li'e
Imprisonment
Mi HrKl'- is h former Hoer load
or After the Hoer surrender, he
escaped In I'arls I. itor ho toured
the I MT I'D STATUS In the Inter
est of Irish home rulers.
Ho returned to Oulillu undor the
proclamation of amnesty to Honrs.
The Hrltlsh foreign office lias
not yet answered Amhassftilor
Page's Inquiry wit 11 regard to
James M Sullivan, former Ameri
can minister to Santo Domingo. ar
rested among the roll Is In Dublin.
Dispatches snld ho had been
taken Into custody on suspicion,
and that ho would be released 1!
there »as no evidence hint.
Mcllrldo marrlpd Maude Oonne,
known as (lie Irish Joan of Arc,"
while In I'arH
ljiter she divorced htm.
LAST EDITION
What had you planned for tomorrow?
A fishing trip or an auto ride? Well, for
get it. Forecaster Salisbury says: "Showers
tonight and Sunday."
SEE HINT FOR
PEACE IN
NOTE
POPE SENDS PEACE DELEGATE
WITH MESSAGE FOR PRESIDENT
WASHINGTON. May 6.—Monsignor Bonzano, apos
tolic delegate to Washington, called at the White House
today on a secret mission.
Later it was learned he called in the interests of peace
at the request of the pope.
He did not see the president but conferred with Sec
retary Lansing. No statement was obtainable, but it
was learned on excellent authority that Bonzano left
a message regarding action which the president might
take toward securing peace.
The visit, in connection with peace paragraphs in the
German note, caused a sensation in official circles.
By Robert J. Bender
WASHINGTON, May 6.—The submarine issue is closed,
in the view of President Wilson's advisers today.
No comment was forthcoming from the White Hou«e.
So completely do officials in touch with the situation con
sider the issue disposed of that it was said there would be
no reply by the president.
Secretary Lansing tnav i«sue a statement calling atten
tion to the essential point—that Germany ordered its sub
marine activities confined to vessels of war.
This i* the of the reply, officials say, and leaves
no actual issues.
It is felt that Germany will not reopen the by re
sliming it* undersea warfare again-t merchantmen. Officials
believe every care will be taken to prevent commandcrs from
violating their instructions, and see danger only in the fact
that the submarine commanders are mostly young and some
of them perhaps difficult to control.
Believe Germany Will Quit
Submarining Merchantmen for Good
But Germany having once quit submarining merchant
men, no high official regards it within the range of possibility
that -he will resume such operations.
The official text of Germany's reply to the American
ultimatum was received today.
President Wilson is formulating his decision or> the
momentous i--ue
I'nle-- the official document differs essentially from the
pre-- versions, it i- a foregone conclusion that danger of an
immediate break has passed.
This conclusion ha- the general approval of congress,
the cabinet and others of the president's advisers. /
From the large numbers of telegrams received at the
White House during the night, it appears that the country is
satisfied that < iermany made a concession precluding all
possibility of a break unle-s it fail- to live up to its promise.
Germany may be said to be again on probation.
Time will tell whether it deserves this chance, according
to the view here.
Lusitania Case to Pass Into History
With Wilson's Acceptance of German Note
With President Wilson's decision, the Lusitania case will
pass into history.
The last obstacle in the Lusitania negotiations will be
removed when the president approves the new orders putting
freighters and liners in the same class—all subject to the
rules of search and seizure before destruction.
Officials guardedly indicated that something may result
directly from Germany's plain indication that it is anxious for
peace.
The conference between Ambassador Gerard and the
kaiser suddenly looms large in the minds of officials.
It had not been seriously thought that the emperor dis
cussed details of the submarine issue with Gerard.
Since the arrival of the reply there is a strong belief that
peace may have played a prominent part in the conference.
Believe Germany Makes Veiled Appeal
to the United State# to Take Steps for Peace
Germany's admission that she twice offered to make
peace, and a declaration that she yields because she believes
prolongation of the war a calamity, if not actual indications
of uneasiness for the future, are appeals to thi - country for
affirmative steps that will stop the carnage, according to the
belief of tierman as well administration circles.
It may be said authoritatively that some persons close
to the president believe he should tentatively sound out the
belligerents on the question of possible peace and the result
of tlie German note.
The president for more than a'the kaiser.
year bus declined to offer Ills serv- The contents of hi* commnnicu
lees toward peace It ion on that point are closely guard
i'ntii such action In suggested to'ed.
him iiy it belligerent, it is believed In the meantime, the president
he «111 make no move. | will not uet in this direction until
Thin hiikk''*!ion. in the minds of he ha? determined whether he can
many, ban now come jwlth dignity accept the new (ipi-
Whether the president will so re man pledge us wholly apart from
garil it remains to be seen. its discussion of the ItrttUh block-
Much, probably, depends on what | nde. The official text is practical
\inhassudor Oerard communicated ly Idem leal with the press text, il
with regard to bis conference with wan •■aid.
