_The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. PRANCIVILLI, WRIT FILICIANA PARIN, LOUIIANA, SATURDAY, MAY 1,11 NO. 14
HONEST WEIGHTS HONEST MEASURES
GEO. RETIIG
The Grocer.
HONEST VALUES HONEST PRICES
,.TI. Safety Firt Dr. Stiw...
I
1
S
Lespedeza Hay For Sale
I will sell good mixed Lespedeza Hay at $8.00 to $11.00
per ton, baled, running from 60 to 80% Lespedesa. Also
offer good mixed Lespedeza Hay, loose, at $7.00 per ton.
Would also arrange to load on cars at Plettenberg.
I have quite a lot of bright, well.cured Corn Stover
at $6.00 per ton. Prices are based on delivery at the barns,
on Highland Plantation, about 9 miles from Bayou Sara.
F. S. Percy, Plettenberg,
Fr Louisiana
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McG EHEE (1836-1918)
We stand upon the threshold of a new year, to bring,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant mauling.
But thus compelling our faithful fields to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish cheer for the guest
within our gates and help for our less fortunate broth"r, we
shall find as always the complete satisfaction that CAURAIoN
is perfect and EAIiiT an admirable homne.
Our best wishes to every sentient being l
SUCCESS LIES IN MUTUAL lSEVIC .
J. 8?McGEHEE - * Laure Hi La.
THE FORD TRACTOR
Model B
Notwithstanding the recent heavy advances in the price of
steel and iron, and practically all materials used in its con
struction, THIE FORD TRACTOR, New Model "B," with its
may up-to-date improvements, maintains its supremacy as
the lowest priced arrviceable tractor on the market.
S$465 o. b.
ELul Fatory
I WAVE ON HAND ONE TRACTOR, SELLING AT M f..b. FACTORY
CHAS. WEYDERT.
- - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
MAIrESCO I
GEN RASS EML
(New Orleans States.)
Hundreds of bills are now In the
course of preparation, making ready
for an early Introduction at the coming
session of the legislature. Present in
dications are that the number of pro
posed laws will eaoily keep pace with
former years and run well up to the
800 mark.
New Orleans will have one matter
of supreme importance to the city
before this legislature, in the shape of
the proposed constitutional amendment
for re-fitnancing the city and taklng
care of outstanding municipal obliga
t ons.
Consideration of a constitutional
eonvention at some time durlnlg the
Pleasant administration is also ex
pected to become an early issue.
Liquor legislation of a regulatory
nature will be up for consideration.
Supt. A. W* Turner, of the Louisiana
Ant-lBaioon League, has said so and
he usually knows. lie has hinted that
a bill will be offered to prevent the
sale of liquor within five miles of the
louisana State Unlverslty, which in
effect would be to make Baton Rouge
)ry--this In one in which many legis
lators are personally Interested.
Another is to prevent the shipment
and sale of near-beer in dry territory.
The Shell near-beer bill was one of the
most bitterly fought measures of the
general session of 1914. Another pro
posed act is to make it compulsory
upon police juries to call prohibition
elections when a certain per cent of
the electors petition for it. With such
an act on the statute books, several
parishes would immediately be forced
into prohibition elections.
A revision of existing election laws
will provide one of the battle grounds
for the coming session.
Progressive developments in the
Third District and opposition to the
Democratic party in the general seo
lion, have emphasised the necessity
for drawing party lines and preserving
party Integrity through legislative en
actments, say the party leaders One
plan is to provide for all party nomina
tions by primaries to be held on the
same day, with separate boxes, etc.
This plan was up at the last session
but was finally killed in conference and
a much milder measure put through at
the Instigation of Third District Demo
crats who then expected that a large
per cent of the detection would come
back into the party. Punishment by
probation for one or two years is also
being suggested for the bolters. That
election bills will be among the early
ones, Is generally admitted.
Among other subjects that will elaim
attention, are:
Judicial legislation: re-organlsation
of the Supreme ('ourt, one of the plans
being to increasea the judles from ive
to seenl and divide the court into two
wvorkingl sections.
Penitentiary Board of Clontrol, a re
inancinlg of this state institution, elther
on present lines or by changing the
existing system.
Probable limitina of the parole act,
complaint having been made that the
present act is too liberal. The New York
plan has been under consideratlon.
Tax revision of some sort, unless.
that whole subject matter is left open
for a constitutional convention.
Revision and elimination of the fee.
system in public olices, as particularly
applies to shebrtiffs, clerks of courts, etc.
State Board of Health legllation
and sanitary bills.
Possible legislation affetting the
Charity Hospitalt and the system now
in volgue at New Orleans.
Edlational bills, afr~etlng state
schools. -
Aiolition of the leense tax on trades
and oceupatlons.
New acts leoklng to an equalisationa
of assessements and taxation.
Butlding and malatalinsn of better
publie highways, will be among early
subjects covered.
Agricultural lsgislatloa, to encourage
soil development and to streagthea the
hands of the Department of Agrteulture.
Adoption of a plan for state budgets,
to prevent appropriatlang more money
than the Income will provide.
Added levee legisaltion peadlia
Pederal control of ti. state's foid
proteetlaon system. The Probe Coen
mlssloe will have om file In atoa
Rpage a full report of its anlap in
relatiem to the levees of the state, the
beards l eeettrol sad the geooes!
system. It may be that some of thee
rmrommesa tss will be aed as teea
tloims for pweseod qlealats.
A unsbec of lamesa.e bll0 saweys
hPTANT NOT EE
TOCATTLE OWNrs
St. Paracisville, La., April 3I, 101,.
There have been dipped 13,678 cattle
In this parish since the work started
this year, no accident having occurred
and no reason why any should happen
during the balance of the season.
A large majority of owners are very
anxious to completely eradicate the
cattle tick this season and are direct
lag every elot't to that end. Sxperl
ene has taught us that this can be
accomplished In one season, by using
the same amount of energy that you
would bestow on any other business
matter, perhaps with less money in-'
volved. Vigilance In this matter must
not relax in order to accomplish this
result; no owner should deceive him.
self Into believing that he can bring
but part of his cattle to the vat and
obtain the same result as his neighbor
who brings them all.
Any man holding back part of his
herd is deceiving no one but himself,
as It will show for itself towards the
end of the dipping season
If the large majority of herds are
free this fall rand at this writing the
Indteations are that they will bet, the
parish will be released from quarant
tine and the herds which are still In
tested will be placed under IK'AI,
QUARANTINE This will mean that
they will have to be kept on their
owners' premises or be subject to a
heavy fine if the cattle break out, as It
la unfair to those who have cleaned
their pastures by conscientiously dipl
ping to have them re"infested by the
anegligence of a few Indifferent ones
It Is not the desire of any one con
iected with this work to impose un
necessary hardships on any one, but It
is thought to be advisable to inform
them what may be expected in case
the dipping is performed In a dilatory
manner. At this date there Ia still
time to clean any pasture and in case
any one Is infested with ticks at the
end of the season it will be because a
clean dipping was not had from that
particular place, for whatever reason,
avoidable or otherwise. Do not keep
out a few for the reason that you are
afraid to clean your pasture entirely,
as this would still leave you with. an
other year's wdrk and you may find
that you are alone in this condition;
rather clean up thoroughly and in case
you desire a few ticks at the beginning
of another year there will scarcely be
any premium on them as they will still
be plentiful in nearby sections and can
be secured very easily for the asking,
but we are confident that you will not
want them.
Occasionally eattle stray several
miles away from home and the owner
may not know their whereabouts. It Is
requested that other owners driving
their eattle also bring these with their
own stolk to the vats. It may be re~
riprocated btfore the seaon Is over.
At any rate stray eattle should be
dipped. Any one knowing of stray
cattle not being dipped will be helping
the work along by reporting same and
in ease the owner fails to attend to
them after being notified, they will be
gathered up and dipped In aecordance
with the regulations adopted April 5.
1918, and charges made for same.
Bring all your stock, baby calves
(over 3 days old). Infested hores.
mutnes and colts, if any, regularly; do
not cut out any for fancied ailments;
do not imagine if they are forward that
it will hurt them. You may wash them
in the dripping pen if desired, but
bring them. as they nmay be safely
dipped 1,. N. JARl)O,
Veterinary Inspector.
When you go to a grocery store and
htbuy a dollar's worth of bacon, you get
a piece a little larger than your two
hands, provided you haven't got large
hands. Maybe the grocer can't help It.
lie pays 23 cents and sells for 25. Rut
the grocer nor the Jobber nor the
wholesale house in the city, have a
way of preventing you from producing
homegrown bacon at six cents the
pound. Besides, the home product Is
better in every way and you don't have
to pay 35 cents for the bottom part
with the buttons thrown In.- WInleld
Bentnel,.
make their appearance early and the
aual quota have been rumored,
labor lgislrttson promises to be
light, although sne of the uasol bills
areettang railstroads have ben dug up,
dpeted of and made redy for re.
tatodeti)oo at ea uarly date, among
them the gesald .ent's old Mred,
Uth .ak uaw l da
MINUAR FM COONY
P CTOEON MAY24
The publie i1 hereby notified that
the sixth annual basket picnic of the
BEat Louisiana Hospital for the Inasne,
Jackson, La., will take place this year
on Wedneeday, May 24. at the Farm
Colony.
A splendid array of capable speakers
on practlel up-to-date rural subjects
will be in attendance to Interest every
body present.
All visitors will likewise enjoy the
pleasures of the day's outing, and the
opportunity to commingle with the
patients of the Farm Colony, and in
spcrt their advanced work in farming,.
trucking, dairylng, and general live
stock raisingl
To this you are cordially invited.
Neighbors, don't forget to bring with
you your bountiful picnie basket, and
help as entertain our visiting friends.
CLARENCE PIERSON, M. D.,
Superintendent.
WRITE FOR YOUR HOME PAPER.
The Bunkle Record is making such
an excellent suggestion to Its readers,
that we appropriate most of it for our
own, with proper acknowledgments to
our contemporary of counse. As amend
ed we wish to say:
This paper therefore wishes to say
that artieles which will be of general
bterest, to West Felicana and vicinity
are all that are required, the more
strongly they point to some short
coming and suggest a remedy for
same, the more welcome such contrit
hutlons will be.
If the towns' civic attractiveness can
be improved In any way, let us know
it this department will publlsh It.
If you have achieved any success on
your farm that will help your brother
farmers tell us. Just jot It down
We'll put it in good shape for you.
If you have made a big sale of farm
products, send in the glad news.
No political articles are wanted at
this time.
All contributions should be written
on one side of the paper only, over the
author's real signature; but will be
published over a nom de plume if the
sender so desires.
THE POTATO BU®.
The adhlt Colorado potato beetle, or
potato bug, as commonly called, Is oval
in shape. about three-eighths of an Inch
In length and a little narrower than
long. The ground color is yellow and
the wlnag are marked by ten black
lines running lengthwise. Bikek mark
ings are also found on the thorax. Thea
eggs are bright yellow when freshly
laid and are usually deposlted under
the under surface of leaves and range
from ten to fifty each. When the young
Iatch out they are dark red or brown
bugs with black heads.
Life Hlistory: The adult beetles suasi
ly pass the winter in the ground at a
depth of from four to six Inche. When
the ground gets warm they come out
of their winter quarters to seek food
plants to feed and lay their eggs on.
The eggs hatch in eight or ton days,
dependlnlg upon the temperature. The
larvae at first feed on the surface of
the lesf where they are hatched, but
soon migrate to the top ol the plant
and eat the tender young leaves which
are just unfoldlng The younlg reach
full trowth In about three weeks Soon
eggs are laid again and the second
generation hatches.
Remedies: The best and most prac
tical remedy is spraylng with some
arseanical pdson. On large acres the
best machine is a power sprayer drawn
by horses, but in a small patch a hand
sprayer will do very well. Areenate of
lead Ie the best poison for this purpose.
It Is a white pastue which must be care
fully mixed with a little water and
strained through a fine screen to re
move all lumps which might clog the
ntoisle of the spraying machlne. The
poison should be diluted at the rate of
six or eight pounds to a hundred gallons
of water The right time to spray Is
when the young grube begin to appear
at the top of the stems Arsenate of
lead does not kill as quickly as Paris ll
(reen, buht It steksL to the leaves better
and the beneft can be sen for weehk
Parts (ireen is mixed with water at the
rate of a pound for seventy-fve or a
hundred tgallons of water There is
danlger of this poison burning the!
follage and to prevent thiLe it is well to
add the milkh from two pounds of
slaked lime to each hundred sallons of
water used. While usintag enlter of
the pooeans the eontents of the
sprayllg maeblcane bshouid be kelpt welll
alltated. - P. I,. Otiheas~, lautsian
Samte Univurity.
IOSW CT SUNDAY
SO IIINVENONT
The West Pelleiana Sunday School
Association convened in St. Prnscio
vlle, AprU 27. The fact of the Asso
elation's not being advertised In your
p esteemed paper was that the Secretary
had not been fully Informed as to what
i the program would be. Nevertheless
a goodly number from the town and
country assembled at the Methodist
Church Thursday afternoon to meet
Miss . M. Judea. State Elementary
Sunday School worker, who opened the
meeting with devotional exercises of
sonsg, prayer and quotations of Scrip
ture, after which the object of the
meeting was stated, which was to form
the Sunday Schools of the parish Into
districts. The convention formed the
parish Into two districts, the St Fran
clsvltle District and the Concord dies
trict. The former comprises the fol
lowing Sunday Schools St. Francis
ville Gr Oace Episcopal ('hurch, the St.
'ranclsvillle Methodist, Wilhelm Meth
odilt and Star Hill Methodist The
('oncord Distrlct comprises Concord
Methodist, Thom's Creek Methodist,
New Hlope Methodist and Wakefield
interdenomlnational.
For the St. Pranclevllle District the
following officers were elected A. IC.
Rogillto, president; W. A. lIss, sere
tary. Other offle.s were filled by the
Misses Town, Raynham. Ilookter and
others No oficers have been elected
for the Concord District, but a meet
ing will be held soon with the New
Hope School to perfect organisatlion.
On the second day, Fridayj the As
sociation met with the Star Hill Sun.
day School and held two very Interest
Ing sessions, The good ladles of the
Star Hill neighborhood provided an
ample and dellcious dinner.
Those present from the country for
the town meeting were W. R, ('amp
bell, J. A. Thom. Miss Margaret Thenm,
from concord; Mr. and Mrs. T. IC.
Splllman of New Hope; A. E. Roglillo
of Wilhelm and Miss Mabel Jarvls of
Wakefield, and others.
W. R. CAMPBELL.
Parish Secretary.
PUSLIC SCHOOL PUPILS TAUGHT
DANGERS OF CATTLE TICK.
Thursday. April 0., was known as
"Tick Ilay" in the public schools of
loulistna. In accordance with a proc.
lamation by the Governor of the State,
two hours were devoted to Instructing
the pupils in the dangers of the cattle
tick and methods by which it may be
eradicated. The leaflet printed below,
and other literature on this subject,
were used by the teachers and pupils.
Teacher
KILL THE CATTLE TICK! WHY?
Pipils anuwer
I ueause the ('attle Tick carries and
transmlta the germn of Tea pilever
and prevents us from getting good
analmals from the tick-free setlons
to Improve our cattle.
2. RBecause ('stile Ticks kill our own
native cattle in the winter when
feed btomese scarce.
3. BCause Catt('le Ticks reduce the
quantlity and quality of our milk
supply
4, itecsuse 'attle Ticks (calle quaran
tline of our beef cattlei fromn the
most probtable markets
&. Because Tick Eradication means an
open market for our catntle at any
and all aseasons of the year without
restrictI ions.
. 1ecase ('astle Ticks prevent our
farmers fronm competlng with North
e.rn farmters 111in the best cntle
markets.
7 Beea~sw rattle that are tick-free
lmake much larger gains, on the
sanme feed, than those that are
tlIck-infested.
. Becauen Cattle Ticks binder diver
sifed farmlng, which is so much
needed to develop our agricultursl '
resources.
9 Irecause C'attle Ticks keep manv
disIlrable immilgrant farmers anad
stockmen away from LoullIan
Io. Hrcaus Tick EBcradlcatlon would
greatly lanerease the value of our
farm lands.
11. Hecause Tick Iradiratln would
turrmeae the value of our cattle
from 05 to $10 per head in the
markets; and enable us to import
better cattle to add to the values,.
When the a'sttle Tick goes out,
the Dollar comes in.
It. Recause all of the other Southern
States are Killing the ('sLttl Tick.
and lnoutIiana rcannot afford to lag
behind and lose the beneit. of
Tick Eradlelsion
Teacher
KIl, THt C(ATT'IE TICK! HOW?
Pupils. esteer
By the Regular Use of the Dipplang
Vat sd tihe Staudard Arialest
Seltiss, sad verybody Helplag.
