OHIO rf ATE
UUf u: u"Y
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 3
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MAY 6, 1916
One Dollar a Year
i!
The Building Trades Council
Receives Request from the Trades and Labor Assembly of Kenton
and Campbell Counties, To Put The Masonic Temple, Covington,
The Levine and Kressge Jobs of Newport, and the Eagles' Home
of Dayton on the Unfair List.
Wm. Biedenbender, The Main Street Hatter, Declares for Union Labor. Steam
Fitters Thank Arbitration Board.
J he meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order, with Vice
President Phil Fischer in the chair.
The minutes of the preious meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the Heat and
Frost Insulators and Asbestos Workers,
No 8, presented the names of Brothers
G. Smith and Wm. Towlster as dele
gates to the Council; the brothcis being
present, they were clulj obligated.
The following communication from
the Building Trades Department of the
Trades and Labor Asscmblj of Kenton
and Campbell Counties was read and re
ferred to the Board of Business Agents
(or action :
TRADES AND LABOR ASSEMBLY.
Combined Unions of Kenton and Camp
bell Counties. Kcntuckj.
Covington , Ky Maj :i, vm.
Mk. Futi; Hock, 20 East Twelfth Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio :
DrAK Sin and Brothi r At a meeting
of the Building Trades Department of
the Trades ami Labor Asscmblj, held
May 2nd, I received instructions to com
municate with jour honorable body and
request that jou co-operate with this de
partment in the action lakon ai last
meeting.
By unanimous vote of the members
assembled the following motion pre
vailed: That both Wagner jobs on
Monmouth street, Newport. Kj. (the
Lavine Job and the Krcsgc job), also
the Masonic Temple of Covington, Kj.,
and the Eagles' Home in Dajton, Ky.,
be declared unfair to organized labor if
anj non-union workmen go on work,
and that a strike be called bj this bodj
in that event.
A committee has been appointed to
visit jour Council to furnish any infor
mation jou maj desire on this com
munication. Our request is that jour
Council take the same action, and so in
struct any craft that maj be affiliated
with jour body.
Hoping that this matter is given due
consideration, and that jou will grant
this small request, for the good of the
movement in general, I beg to remain,
Fraternallj jours,
W. R. Limw.v,
Secrctarj-.
"(Hi Sixth avenue, Dajton, Kj.
A committee from the Building Trades
Department of the Trades and Labor
Assembly of Kenton and Campbell
Counties, composed of Thos. Higgin,
Walter Bjron and Harry J. Kennedj
was granted the floor to speak of the
above communication Brothers Iliggins
and Kennedj addressed the Council and
were informed bj the Chair that the
Board of Business Agents would give
the matter their immediate attention.
A vote of thanks was extended to the
committee for coming before the Coun
cil to back up their demands
The following communication was
read and filed .
STENOGRAPHERS, TYPISTS.
BOOKKEEPERS AND ASSISTANTS'
UNION No. 130(12.
Cincinnati, O, Maj 1, l'Jl'HS.
Mr. Imii i. Hoik. Secrctarj Building
Trades Council, Citj :
Diar Sir ami Burn hi r No doubt jou
are aware that there exists in this city
a union of office workers, known as
Stenographers, Tjpists, Bookkeepers and
Assistants' Union No. 1.".(M2. This union
is organized, as were all unions, to bet
ter conditions, and there is room for
much improvement in the conditions of
the average office work, such as long
hours, poor paj, etc
Wc would ask jou to give us jour
assistance in this matter bj giving jour
stenographic work to a member of Lo
cal 150(12, who has a paid-up due card
anil uses the stamp of the Union, uamelj,
STH&A
Sli 5003.
in the left-hand corner of her work.
We have several members able to do
work of this kind, among these being
Miss Ida Allen, Public Stenographer,
f -
Street Car Men, Beware
of Peter Witt
Kesley Scliocpl pulled up the white Nil-' when lit engaged Peter
Witt to st and between him mid an outraged public.
It shows that Schocpf realizes that tills is a (lay of icckoning,
tor the manner in which lie has liinn-liniidlcd the public in tin
past, and knowing; that he is miivci sully despised by the people
of Cincinnati, lie was afraid to come out in the sunshine himself.
It shows that Walter Draper, Jos. Ileintzniau, and a score of
others have lost their useliilness as a bullet tor this grand old
citizen.
He lias the ICepublieaii Machine (who will Inst nut the Council
what ordinance to pass) In the palm of his hand.
Itut lie is at raid of the Initiative and reterendiiui.
Thanks to Herbert Hlgelow.
Peter Witt is no traction expert and never was.
. iVH.llitftiim; lie !!! thtr tlliic'.i' ,;.:Ii-iA'"raiu'J'!i7'i'4i.'i''ilii-'
in Cleveland, there was a "tractioneer," who was a practical rail
road man, and who had charge of the operation of the cars he
is still on the job.
Hut Peter Witt is a speaker and a pood one, particularly when
appealing to the rubble.
Sometime ago he held a joint debate with himself in Cleveland,
lietore a crow tier) house, and when he was through, the audience
did not know whether to vote for tin- positive or negative side.
He has told the truth about the Cincinnati Tnution Company
at the People's Church.
Itut he can talk on either side of a pioposition if paid lor it.
Peter Witt is not here to tell us how to use universal transfers
that's too easy.
He is here to make speeches and attempt to create a favorable
opinion of the Traction Company with our citizens if lie can!
He is here to talk to the iiotormen ami conductors and try to
convince them that the company can not meet their demands.
HUT YOU MUST NOT LKT HIM.
WIIKXI'VKK Hi: TALKS TO YOU, LOOK KKillT STKA1GHT
OVKK HIS SII()Uljl)i:U AND YOU U'HJi SKK Till-: VIKTUOUS
1'IGUHi: OK KKSM'Y SCIIOr'PK WITH A HAG OP COIN.
Do not let Witt get in on your dealings with the Traction
Company. Cut him out at the start.
GKT HKTTKIt CONDITIONS AND Till: PAY YOU DKKKllYi:.
Hotel Metropolc, Sixth and Walnut
streets, and Miss MacCormack, Tele
phone Canal 4520. Miss Allen is verj
capable as a court stenographer, should
jou at anj time need a stenographer for
testimonj in court.
Our meetings are held on the second
and fourth Mondajs of the month at i
p m at Lincoln Inn Court, and if anj
of jour members have relatives or
friends cmplojed at office work we would
be pleased to have them come to our
meetings. Further information will be
given bj calling Canal 2410.
'1 hanking jou siueerclj for an, work
of this kind jou do for us, and wishing
jou success, we are,
Fraternallj jours,
STI.XOfiRVI'llH'S, Tmmsts, Bookkh-I'I rs
vni) Assistants' Union, No 1S002
Mar E. Dunv, Secrctarj.
Business Agent Hock read his report,
and stated that Win. Biedenbender, the
dealer in gent's furnishing goods on
Main street, stated that he intended to
use union labor onlj on the flats that he
is going to erect.
Ml trades reported business good.
ice-President Fischer announced that
t
the stcamlittcrs had signed a new three
jear agreement, and that he desired to
thank the Arbitration Iloaid for their
services in the matter.
There being no further business the
Council adjourned until next Thursdaj
night.
won't m:t i:m auni:.
Cleveland. Six organizers of the
American Federation of Labor have ar
rived here to open a whirlwind campaign
to organize b.oot) emplojees of the United
States Steel Cot poration here. The ob
ject of the move is to demand an eight
hour day. Sol Soiithemier is in charge
of the effoit, and said the men are dis
satisfied with the companj 's ten-per-ceut
wage increase gt anted Februarj 1,
TUOL'llhi: AT HKADKOItl), 1M"NN.
Bradford, Penn Two hundred and
liftj machinists struck today because
their cmplojers refused demands for the
eight-hour daj and an increase in wages
from .17' to ."id cents an hour. Shops
were clos-.il, and some companies an
nounced thej would discontinue machine
w irk in their plants
The Central Labor Council
Demands of the Traction
Universal Transfers and Eight Tickets for a Quarter.
They Also Demand 35-Cent Gas With Ten Cents Off
for Prompt Payment.
The Central Labor Council last Tucs
daj night, went on record for better
street car service, universal transfers and
eight tickets for a quarter, and a demand
that cverj councilman go on record as
to how he stands on this proposition
Thomas 11 Mugavin, president of Cen
tral Labor Council and chairman of the
Public Utilities Committee of the Cen
tral Labor Council, in reporting for the
committee at the meeting last Tuesdav ,
gave quite a lengthy report, the commit
tee recommended to the Council that the
Central Labor Council, representing .10,
000 trades unionists of Cincinnati and
vicinitv go on record as being m favor
of the following:
First Improved service,
Second Universal transfers,
Third Eight tickets for a quarter.
sub-committee of the general com
mittee was appointed to look after the
revision of fares, and appear on behalf
of the Council at all public hearings of
the Citj Council. The sub-committee is
eomposed of Rist. Mugavin and Prout
The committee will also draft a letter
to all citj Councilmen asking them how
thev stand on these three propositions
Chairman Mugavin called to the atten
tion of the delegates the fact that the
committee wanted at this time to sound
a note of warning against what the com
mittee felt is an effort on the part of the
traction company to use the street car
Cleveland CiarMm
Accepted Agreement
Compromise Averts Strike of Trolley Workers. Increase
of Two Cents an Hour Is Granted by the Com
pany. Sixty-Five Thousand Garment
Workers Idle in New York.
Cleveland. O. Motormen and con
ductors of the Cleveland Railway Com
panj voted 1.12.1 to -tlHi last Thursdaj
to accept the companj 's compromise
wage offer, thus averting a strike The
terms as accepted bj the men call for a
wage increase of two cents an hour, ef
fective at once, with an additional one
cent increase Mav 1, 1017, and a mini
mum dav of live hours, effective at once.
signal mi:n m)cki:d out.
Pirst Step Taken By New York Cen
tral To Thwart Stiike.
Cleveland, Ohio. 11. Smith, Pres
ident of the New York Central Rail
road, arrived here recentlj and went into
tonferciKe with other officials of the
road. While no announcement was made,
telegraphers' leader said his coming was
in connection with the threatened strike
of telegraph operators and signal men.
Union leaders here declared that the
railroad companj began to lock out sig
nal men in dozens of towers along their
lines.
From the headquarters of the union,
at a downtown hotel, it was said that
the strike oulers had been issued and
J J. Dermodj, Vice-President of the
telegraphers' organization, said he did
not expect auj developments which
would prevent a strike.
When he learned that cvv York dis
patches quoted President II. B. Per
liam, of the union, as sajing the company
would be granted further time to con
sider the men's demands, he said "If
the union heads m New York have de
cided on delaj 1 have not been notified"
Dermodj declared President Smith,
of the road, had sent a message to all
signal and telegraph emplojees explain
ing that he had offered to treat with
telegraphers, but not in conjunction with
the signal men
"The companj is determined not to
recognize the signal maintamer." said
Dermodj, "and this seems to be the real
hitch in the negotiations now We will
stand with the maintainors "
Company Improved Service,
men to prevent anj of our demands
from being pressed, he further stated
that the labor movement were in back
of the street car men in anj action they
took relating to their new agreement,
but that other adjacent cities were paj
mg more wages to their men and giving
the public more than was being given
in Cincinnati. And this particular phase
of the situation should not deter us from
msising that the traction companj give
the people of this citv relief from the
present poor quahtj of service we are
now receiving from the traction com
panj, for thej felt that the business of
the traction companj warranted them
giving the people what is coming to them
as outlined above, and to the men higher
wages and improved working conditions.
The report of the committee was con
curred in unammouslj
The organisation also went on record
as opposing anv minimum charge for
natural gas and favoring a jthirtj -five-cent
rate, with a reduction of ten cents
for prompt payment of bills. Action m
both matters was taken upon recommen
dation of its Public Utilities Committee.
The Executive Board reported it met
with the Executive Hoard of the Build
ing Trades Council and organized the
Joint Labor Dav Committee bj electing
the follow ing officers Thomas Mugav in,
nrpcwlpnt Phil Fisrhpr. viep-nresident :
William Prout. secretarj, and George
I Vr1fp trpncnrpr
..U...., V. ........ . .
:o--'s-5iaKt.- jr.- .
The tirst-jear men have been getting 20
cents an hour and the others 32 cents.
The company estimates the advance will
cost $Y12,000 in two j ears, which is the
life of the agreement. An uiiportantfac
tor in influencing a favorable vote of the
men was the promise made to union
leaders bv Major Harry L. Davis that
he w ould" lead an effort before the City
Council for schedule changes to meet
the wishes of the men
HlGHl'sT WAGKS
Should Be Paid Government Ihn
plojees, Sajs War Secietary.
Washington. Secretarj Baker in an
nouncing that negotiations would be un
dertaken with workmen ot the Rock
Island. HI. arsenal, seeking a higher
wage scale, expressed his belief that the
Government should lead the vvaj as an
emplojer and pav more than the usual
wage scale
'The Government," said the Secretarj,
"should be an industrial leader, offering
the emplojees better wages and work
ing conditions than private emplojers.
I believe the Government should paj a
little the best wages and offer a little
the best working conditions For two
reasons it should paj shghtlj over the
usual wage s. ale to secure the pick of
emplojees and be a model to private em
plov ers."
Sir Baker said the Labor Department
had been asked to advise on the arsenal
wage scale, and a final answer probably
will be given the workmen Maj 11
poTi'.svii.iii: wim: mi:n gain.
Pottsville. Pa The Electrical Work
ers' Union has secured wage increases
and other betterments for ISO of its
members cmplojed bj the Union Trav
tion Companj and the Eastern Pemisjl
vania Light, Heat and Power Companj
Wages have been raised from $70 to
s(i.i0 a mouth, with a nine-hour day
and pav for overtime. The men were
never paid for overtime before The
two-jcar contract dates from Maj 1.
Jvl
