THIS IS FOES YOU!-.-
We have come to a time in our nation's his
tory when every citizen must uke a und.
Our liberties are hcinc aai!cd. our institu
This It Number 263
tions are threatened and our very homes and persons may soon feel the thrust of papal hate. Romish politicians
arc riding the people to ruin and patriots must assert themselves now or see their freedom fade before the blight
ing shadow of Romish despotism. It is your duty, and you should count it a privilege and honor, to take part in
the fight against popery as it is manifested here today. Support your righting and fearless papers; support your
staunch and true candidates for othce and with every ounce of your strength meet Rome upon her own ground,
the political field. By concerted effort you can save this nation from slavery to Rome. Show your face to the
foe and strike one blow for freedom.
1WNACE
My a, iai
ess
38cBSG9BS3c
PEAKS AND DEMOCRACY
iHEP
MIES
REPLIES
IS
The President of the Roman Catholic Fed
eration, of the Archdiocese of Boston,
Upholds Monocracy
HE Hatrrhill riot afforded
an impressire illustration of
what the Roman Catholici
mean by toleration" and
"loyalty to the coiuditution and
our free institution. It alo jrave
striking demonstration of how
parochial schools fouler intolerance
ami religious prejudice.
Now comes an authoritative uU
terance, quite at impressive aud il
luminating in its way, as showing
how, when papal intolerance of free
tliecuscion is the issue, the subject
of the pope, though standing Iiifh
in the archdiocese of Boston and
teied. in law, uphotd mobocraey
rather than insist on the orderly
processes of our conMitutional jwv
eminent in meeting errry iue in
tolled. The alin't incredible utterance
of Henry V. Cunninplinni. presi
dent of the Catholic Federation of
l'xtiiii, in an ten letter to Cardi
ral O'Connell, published in the
ilVistoii Uerald and other Maa
hu.setts papers on April 15th
thuuld be placed in the hands of
firry American totcr before nexti
election day.
So astounding is this defence of
criminal lawlessness and monocracy1
by a Massachusetts lawyer, who is
aim) one of the leading political Ro
man Catholics of Cardinal U'Cou
lieU's diocese tliat it demands special
notice; and be it remembered that
in quoting this latest utterance,
voicing the papal contempt for the
orderly processes of law, we are not
traducing or slandering Pome,
though we are giving the American
citizens who love our free democ
racy another illustration of the
truth of our contentions that lto
rnnn Catholics owe their FIRST
ALLEGIANCE to the SOVER
EIGN OX TUB TIBER, and that
their fealty to our constitution and
the bulwarks of free institutions is
a ROPE OF SAND whenever and
wherever our democraiic eystem of
government conflicU with the papal
theory.
Happily, over against this Ro
man Catholic defense of mob rule,
ve have a most luminous presenta
tion of the democratic spirit and
theory in the magnificent reply by
the distinguished educator and
Baptist clergyman, Professor Fred
erick Ij. Anderson, ol the Xcwton
Theological Institute.
Mr. Cunningham and the Cardinal
The president of the Roman
Catholic Federation of the archdio
cese of Boston is necessarily verr
near'to Cardinal O'Connell, and no
one who know anything of Ro
man Catholic polity, the strict ob
servance of official etiquette and de
ference to the lightest wisher of
those in highest official stations of
the Roman church, will imagine for
a moment that the president of the
Catholic federation would publish
in the daily press an open letter to
his emminence wirnout first sub
mitting it to the cardinal for his
approval, indeed, such a thing it
vnthinlable; and until the cardinal
eees fit to repudiate this unfortun
ate justification of mobocraey, most
thinking people will be reluctantly
forced to assume that it represents
hi views. Let us hope, therefore
that even at this late date, the car
dinal will make haste, to disavow
ny sympathy with this extraordin
ary utterance from one of the lead
ing officials of his diocese.
We now come to a consideration
of Mr. Cunningham's letter, and
1nr in mind that the author of
this communication is not only
leading Roman Catholic ofllcial in
tlie archdiocese, but aloo a promi
nent lawyer, ana. thus is supposed
to know how adequate are the legal
provisions for meeting all extra
' legal or criminal and lav-less aclt in
the ordeny processes of government.
As a lawyer, he can not be ig
norant of the fact that if official?
or public speakers art improperly.
or violate the statutes, there are
legal methods of procedure, by in
junction or prosecution, which ren
ders absolutely inexcusable' any ex
hibition of criminal lawlessness on
the part of an irresponsible mob,
mich as to disgraced the state of
Massachusetts in the Haverhill riot
It the board of aldermen of
Haverhill acted improperly in ex
ercising their authority, as Mr.
Cunningham absurdly aud pre
sumptuously asserts, there was a
legal way to uttle the question by
injunction proceedings which would
have brought the cae before the
eoiiru for review, but this legal and
constitutional method, it would ap-H-ar,
docs riot appeal to thi Ro
man Catholic official and lawyer, as
to feasible a method of dividing the
question, as by re-orting to lynth
law or mobocraey.
Again if, as Mr. Cunningham
would have us believe. Dr. Levdeu
was going to lay himself liable for
prosecution for alamler, viii!iatiui
or libel, all that he and hi fellow
subject of the xe had to do was ( against the oflt-iaU f Haverhill b
with vilifying, slandering and as
sailing the Catholic thurxh fr
twenty year. Now if this is tme;
if it i true that f-r twenty jear
this Bnpti't rWgyman has tran
ended hi vn-t iiu!iml richt :
has been guilty of slander; Unite
false witness r uttered lit Is, how
shameful!) tilh1e Iisve U-mi the
Roman Catholic district attorney
and leading lawyer and other
"prop of the Roman liicran li" in
lift 'ringing the culprit Uf.uc the
lutr and making him mutant iale
I.U allegations.
After makimr the a-loiiiidm,' and
revile- Ktateiueiit that tlio.-e who
acted. "vtrre iiot ( 1 1 : ) a ('nth
olic," 'vnher individually or in
concert with other. Mr. ('uniiipg
haru tils. ni:
" Pennitllv. lalmr they at-d wiih
in their right in making a dentim-tra'tua
in a gvernmcut -!--Tt J to uphold ' tii ate. At we said ia ur iWtarali-Hi:
our free demo r. v an I the bul-'w " " ' r nk r
.rl. ,.f l.rwr.l i',,.t ,,ii-.n Mr M 'wfcolw fnH aa.t -.,khhora. a4
Cuiitiinliam further sirs:
"lyi.kn'i nfalr.l .i,I.h- Milm fti. , rraa ant CViritiaa liM4nmal, rat hf-f
It Hil-mil ail of our polilu-ai aal r-
lii;iout tliBrrrarM to tk atbilramrat of
iuiifT alt fair p1pW' ia rrfnaica' li bear
him a1 la rr-utial to arpramnr ia
tarir anM. Hit a(v-!tt.t wonl-l on It
arotwr aiiltiaitra anl ittnta rrarol
mroi. lie Utit BO :.- of ((XkI Hill
an1 arrk onlr to r1ib tk Catki
rhurrh an.l iit a.ltxrrtt..
"Ik lirr of lu roDioioattralih
an-t of ail t ! ciltr i li rrent m
tt ful runluri, not to l-nil or nK-onmc
ur in it traiivrtaiortt and ibt n unn4i
iIhoi artiatt.
"I trM Vinr EmB'ni- Will rri;ir.
thm k-ttrr at merrtjr in li'ttind bit tti
""'. nn.l in no '.tk',''i"il or in-
ilnatO'i: anr reilr iir Mhr artmu nrrpt
n fai a. what I have ! I mr rommoti l
H"lf tu jmir nB ju-lirpnt."
I baa to 'be dr-ut of foma.' "
I'ndei the d moi ratic theiry of
government which conforms to the
splendid liberalim of Protestant
ism, intelleituul hospitality is rn
itiuraiil and the free discussion of
religious, no Ic-s than social, eo
notuif and political questions, are
ubje t for fre dicuviun and
frank rnln isin. Thi it is true it
diametrically opxHl to the intol
erant autocracy of Rome, but must
the cightv-lhe million non-Roman
Catholics of America surrender this
priirlc heritage of free democ-
Professor Frederick L. Anderson Voices
Theory of Democracy In Ringing Reply
to Papal Representative
and mess4P rmbra.ing the severe 1 1" 'H vk
,. 1 1 tectfd frv om; lhat, wars taa
n icism ,.f opting partiw and , ,,, 1B, kl- frm
fellowships is an am lent Uistin-trom atoWtal-oo' ia too osoreiao of a
guishing g1(n of New Knglaud I rrlimn, it bhu raolraiaUoa from
town goMTT.ment. whi. h the l ath-)' ' rli-ioua eoo
olics no than the anti-Catholic " '". fru ''.
hare ltll fr. to employ, and (II ,nrrrj or great at to to freed from
persons familiar with the practu e , n,t ,t,aftt of cntievtm, & a u jmt thai
of the Catholic Federation know full ! fet mAt$ tkn m ft oowair.
well how free their speakers am to, ' " ih very obco of Utrty tkat
j . f i i wo tvlmo ia LhrrtT for tao otbor snaa
trituie Ma-on. f.uard.ans .f I.iU . . M .
free schiX)! Vstem. and
VioUU'l tli'ir laoful aiitliontr,
"Thr sin.,m ai.l vilifiralioiis liib
,r ha i!insts at:aitiM I atholir mil
1 1:0 i berrb for I'o vrat, arc not within
unv rn'ittitiitial i;onran1 . Inl ate
rlearlv violation f law, wliuii lr'l to
i an a l.n h of the i .i au l ni. b
th amlniiitie bull lonu acn !''''
i1ob.-1. Our rutihtitiitKiual Hk'it 1"
p!irti.c i.ur rt iitriiin itl,iut luoliKiniinu.
iialt if it 'I'" ii"t tnoi-i'i'ii'l miiv i'i.s
ili'tn nf im'is h linn' nuii .-li'is in. i ib'in
fur Lcvilin.
Here we have the naks jtisti'i
tatioii niid iipholding of the u tiu
(f that Roman Catholic mo i ulmh
flouted the coiislitiilii.ii . iln
I'liited States, tlie law of tin- r.-tn.
nionwi ullh of .Masqat his t' a'ld
and were guilty of criminal a--au!ls
on peairahle iitien, and tl;e
struction of puldie and pri,:ii'
pronit.
The claim that Mr. IaviIi-h iuil.t
his friends had tl.ei1".' P""- --l-in-lcr tatli..:..-.
leeal. coiistilutioiiar " '' ' '"' tr - "
to prxHitil against him for thu io-
1 . ' . i a
laiiug tne law.
Surely he ! s not Mire that
it would be inisissible to get jusluc
for Catholics in M-sa hu-eit
courts, when he tall to mind the
fact that a governor clectM as
chief executive, since the Roman
Catholic politiitil machine became
I mighty iower in Massachusetts.
appointed eleven Howan Catholic
judge from a lift vf thirteen ap
pointment, while few states in the
union have Ih-cii more generous in
electing district attorneys and other
prominent officials from among
the Knights of Columbus and other
oath bound Roman Catholic so
cieties. Hence, if there was any
expectation that Mr. Ieyden would
make false statements, slanderou
and libelous utterances. Mr. Con
uiugham aud
same orderly.
It w,.uM In rltff.ciilt to conceive j ncv. or submit to a reign of crini
an utterance that l-ticr exemplifies! inal lawlessness, rnnhooracy anil an
the iiitoleiHtit spirit of the pupal' an by ? Such would se'in to be the
tlnniv of pi. riuiK iit and it dead-1 t!icorv of the siibje ts f the papal
other I ,irart t'ie t 'at linlii . ' -u r urcrr ill
How tcin pti it to hare liim -, iiird fr ; t 'htlmlir IV Ii itnou 1 I.I nut ullih this
methods of nsln-ss that anv
American ciliciis have.
amazing, therelore. in the presence i -r. i-m o n. iohim m
of these indisputable facts i the 'M"r' Hoiu this, the jiistili. at ion ..
spectacle of a prominent Roman ""' ' " in- or-o riv ,
Catholic lawver, and one of thei I'r,H1 s...sof lHu and ord. r in n five
leading official representatives of jdeiiu r.t.y. show h.m Rmiian Catli-j
, . . . . ..Ii I.I,.., .1... it. ....... i
!v 4 1 1 1 i" 1 1 - I I t ile epirit Mild pro-
x isi..n- i our free ititi.ti.iu mi l
di iin pi" v . than are iuikk'uhI in
t!u - di-lilN ialc t..lciin nls of the
pn-.i.h nl of tlie .' 'limn Catholic
1'cd. 'int. .in of tlie arilidiiHc-e of
Uosl.-i.
Professor Anderson ' Replj
With tlicsi- ib-i rvntii i s let us
notice the reply of I'n.f. ,.s.,r Atidi-r-.-on.
the scholarly l'..ip'it cdumlor
and ih'tuMiinn, Ih. a- pndidlv
rep ills the deiin.t i-ilii iipiiil of
(rt ' ,ini mil lav r. '.H'.ti'i -
Ai'i'. a li- M r.'Ci.iMiin jliaiu vnice
J and represent (he ihln i runl nut
, Kjiirit vf lit j' ltii ii. pai e
I iiiei'iit mil u'iviii'' tlii- rcplv in
full, but vc piote tlie inot iin-
Mirtaiil paragraphs.
"In sjiiti. if tlx Mum nliKt anil'iK1""'
ilisrlnuiier a( tl uf Mr. 'minim:-
;,( ' harii' letti't, nuitiv V !i Icon tn'ko.1 itli
, line U'lievc lliMt tlie lanlinal taki't thi
iik nn. of aiiMtcriiii; us tlirmitli his next
I Hell. I. lli.'lt at e.1t the l.le- 'lent of ths
the archdiocese of the cardinal, uj-
holding a mob that trampleil uhui
the fetleral constitution's guarantees,
dulled the state laws, destroyed pub
lic and private property ami a-i
saultcd the person of peaceable citi-icns.
How long could our free democ-'
racy live if nun holding the'
opinions of this prominent Rinnan;
Catholic official should, in large i
numbers, bo elevated to positions!
ou tne hencii m executive stations:
and elsewhere in government.
The papal system is frankly in
tolerant of freedom of religious dis-'
eussion. The democratic system I
welcomes f-e discussion and si'arcli-!
ing and severe cutiiisiu, irovideil,
those ciitit-ict are left absolutely I
fne to refute the charges of the oj-!
position, ii nd with all parties alike
speaking at their peril if they vio
late the laws relating to liliel, scan
dal and false witness.
Mr. Cunningham, like the rioters
at Haverhill, not only places his
allegiance to the papal theory aliove
loyalty to the free democracy of
Jefferson, Lincoln and Wendell
Phillips, but he actually upholds
mob rule instead of counseling obe
dience to law aud strict loyalty to
the constitution.
After referring to the recent reso
lutions of the Baptist clergy of
greater Boston, Mr. Cunningham
in his letter to the cardinal says:
"One Levdea, who bas bwn notorious
in these parta for 20 year as a religious !
agitator ant aaaailer and viUfier of Cath
olic faith and practice, recently sought
to obtain a permit to make a public at
tack on Catholic and their faith in the
city ball in Haverhill. The mayor verr
properly refused to iue this permit. He
tbea applied to the board of aldermen,
who by diviJod voto improperly issued a
ermit.
"I use the term improperly ad
visedly, because the city hall ia a puMie
building, supported aad maintained by
the citizen of the ritr for public naro.
Any other use is improper, especially !
whea it use i eivea to alander, vilif y i
aad attack the religion and sacred rights '
of aa appreciable number of the citizens !
and inhabitant of the eity, aad more no I
and greater in degree, when that number j
of ritiiens. aa in the caae of Haverhill. !
an.T other faith or religion.
'Thi abuse of power by the alder
men, I beliere, was rultf abrogated br
the citiaens and people of Haverhill, by
ahowing and making known publicly that
the attempted ne nader a permit im
properly taaoed oould not b aaade of
their city hIL
Here it will be noted that Mr.
Cunningham chargx Dr. Ley den
letter nilliiiiit tlie cur.linul'i kiinwlrilve
ne t reii'ent. W hile the words are the
nur.l i f Mr. t'litininyhnni, we fear that
tlie M-i:l iiui'iit i the H iitiinelil of the
rt'ii'iivi.
" lluw unfortunate tl,i i! It i cer
tainly rry wri'in fni the rnr ln:il an. I
I n nun ii : it erwre ti irM.ii cumin urn
f tiling ill thi Rtute. ami it 'I'"' tint
tiller- ,.,iiet our fin
ly unsafe to held ollicial positiuiis " iln nut wan,. a rclij;iim war in
(lie imilliug lillirs tlie llltcl!
and nmral vi.iuii of lawver,
as lav men
tun!
a Well!
illd
retnti'1
thi
in
noven-ign in Amenta today.
Trolcvsnr Anderon, however, is
not ready to surrender our demo
cratic Mteiu to save us fruin the
uieiiai-e of lt'otua'1 t'aiholic criminal
lawlessness.
W'c nant li-i"", I tit uot 4ae at any
price. There are some tlunn Biore
. . .1 . .. i ... . . L '
I'lis-iiiiip iiihu is-;ii -. r iii'iniin ii ieii -a . .t -.
..l .1 . i.. .... .' . ,,( lit, l"!l
wii'i ii. iiiui ii 1 1 ii. I in , ! lit, ail- i.u in
them. Hiave im -i cannnt ho rluwn un.ler
threat ol ni'.li Mulenee. W e call css, ia
attention t i tlie f irt that the roicn f
mliTi-e. if iIiimp i to l nne, v iu
aunurated ly Mr. t'linninham ' frion'l.
ln our resuliit limit wo ilisturiate mr
M'lu fp.m nil vhn icnorantlv, liiieler-
imh, ur niiilirieiislv attaek the rlon.an
t a tln l'i- ilmii li. If Mr. I.eylen eomes
im.ler tlinl head. We iIIiwum late ourselves
fr.iin Inm. We do nut, however, by
th e word riiu-lmie the ntt n k uin him
in the hi;hte"t ileree. A long a Mr.
I'yilen i a i itii n of this roninmnwealth,
he h:i h ritfhtt of fn-e operrli. If he
traOfKreiw tbrm hn rnn I punished.
The law provide! for that. If. a Mr.
Ciimiinvham intimate, Mr. I-eyilrn has
been I tcukin. the law for "O year, xrhv
ba be not lu arrested and convietvdt
Surel tint miplit have been ilone in
Haverhill, where Mr. ( 'iinninhnm claim
that the mijiiritr of the population i
Catholic."
Cunningham's Untenable Position
The common practice in New
Kngland of letting the town ball
to public bodies whose nicmlicrs
wi-h to hear various views, thcurics
ertv, our
views and thoorii of government
and religion, which are cherihed by
a vast proportion of our ieoile.
And here Pr. Anderson Imld
Iv show hovr iintetmble is Mr. Cun
ningham's urroeniit asiimiition that,',"'
. ' 1 1 i 1 1 ii
the isiaril oi iii'iirineti
pmisrlv in crutitiug tu
actiil iiu-l
"At we ay in our resolution,
shall know bw to interpret tho eoa
tiniis Kileace of th rardiaaJ,' paeiaJly
after this proBUBCiarevato of hi next
friend. We take it for granted that a
Itnl. I the vieaa of Mr. Cunningham till
he -.-ii. for himself. W houl1 l
ili-lilite-l if h should tell u that Mr.
unoiiiglism " Mitiment ar not his, far
it i a flraartil thinj fitr tha ha1 er
the friends ,ihe Roman t atholie church ia tai dio-
f Pr. Iji-vd'-n the same privilege ' r-e even to ret under the iipicma of
that the town of Wulpole giant- d ' en.utrf.nf mob violence and ju.tirjiag
the Catholic IVderation some ' m"b ,ul'-"
nielit after the Ionian Catholic j Tlie Kotnaii Catholic mob at
mob had given its exhibition i j Haverhill gsve our people a start
Haverhill, and splendidly docs Pro-il'"-' exhibition of K-.man Cathc'ie
fe-s,,r Ai.d. r-on show how the i raining. i lie presiueni oi u.o
lawver'. uu'iimeiit is ,iit iiMiolie lederation of Cardinal
justification of ananbv in the f,,l- M onnell s an hdioeese has shown
low i us luminous examination of the' ' 'feet of this training, even upon
hitter's defense of moUxTacv. supposedly educated leaders in
"A to the letting of the city hull in,'1"' hierarchy.
Haverhill to Mr. U-yden, it vun to me f American citizens, rou who have
that thero is r.H.m for debate, on the , l0,.n ,M,m a(v1 bre,i jn ;n atmosphere
' priiieii'le of the reiiaratmo of rhiirrh anl I , - . ,. , . . -. ... . . ,
I I.atJ-to which Mr. t unniimhan, -. , 'f 'nOdletlual hwPitahtj. taught to
thun li ia oppiH-d, by the way. Mill it 'nve our nag as tne symnoi or our
lhoui.i tio rai.i that tbn iiaverbiii city i ire constitution, ana oi us spiendia
i gunr.nitees oi noerxy; taugni to
love the commonwealth and respect
TOE
LACK raOPIKIET
By GUY FITCH PHELPS
The Newest and Best Anti-Catholic Novel Will Appear in
this Paper in Serial Form Beginning With Next Issue
Readers of The Menace are to be given something new, entertaining and initmctire ia this tripping
story of Romish intrigue. The Black Prophet has never appeared ia print ia any form and its appearance
in hook form will not be made for ninety days from this date, so its newntis is guaranteed.
$1.35 BOOK FOR 25 CENTS
THE PRICE OF THE MENACE 40 WEEKS
The Black Prophet is the most thrilling anti-papal aovet ever written and may well be termed the
Uncle Tom's Cabin of the Second Reformation. Picturing in truthful terms the treachery of the papacy, the
cold cruelty of Jesuitry, the intrigues of Rome's cunning politicians, the coercion and infamous pressure ised
to get the heroine, who is thi step-daughter of an aspiring but conscienceless man of wealth, into a nunnery
ia order that the mother's wealth may be secured by the church, the story infolds a fearful tale of butchery,
intrigue, crime and Romish horrors. Yet through K all runs a beautiful aad inspiring thread of love which
holds the reader ia tense interest until the last word of the last chapter. The hero, Mark Cordon, is a young
priest in his first assistancy where he comes in close aad disgusting contact with the deeper and more devilisi
elements of popery and the priesthood. His meeting with the heroine, Joyce Melbv, who is a parishicnef at St
Andrews and the cause of young Gordon's awakening from the stupor into which the teachings of Rome bad
thrown him, is followed by a determination to save ber from the convent's clutch but let the author tell
the wtory. Father Dahro, the priest at St. Aadrews:'Joyce Melby, Mark Gordon sid Parraia, the Jesuit,
are all typical characters in their several parts, the isrfamous ones to be despised for their inhuman deviltry
aad the dean, honest and lovable ones to be appreciated for their courage in surmounting obstacles aad
thwarting the designs of devils unchained. You will never regret having read this story.
DO NOT MISS THE OPENING CHAPTERS
OF THIS GREATEST STORY OF A DECADE
In Book Form it will consist of 360 pages 21 chapters a book well worth every cent of
its price, $1.35. By reading it in The Menace yoa jet it all for the price of a 40-week subscription.
Get Up a Club Today Among Your Neighbors and Friends. They
Oughtto Read The Black Prophet. Tell Them of This Great Opportunity.
Nothing like this has ever appeared The beat anti-papal story ever written and none should miss
it See that yotr friends know of it See that they get it. -The time is short Get Buy Now.
COMMENCING NEXT WEEK
THE BLACK PROPHET IN THE MENACE
. Lm Triumphs Over Hell aad tht Jesuits ia this Story Read It!
ball wb a t'lai-r wlirra anx nrt of movt
inir van Mil, that it a a aouno of
rrvrm.c to tlie ritv, that it was procur
at'le liy an arraiicmnoiit with the janitor,
an.l thut Mr. U-viU-n's friru.ln bint it,
aiinouni inn that he would ink on the
rftvtly i-rovx'r tubjivt, 'I ho Develop
rtient anj lWoune of Our I'ulilio
rVh-H.U.'
"The Kalurilar rvmiinir tltvbr an
nnunel a meeting of ibe t'athnlie .-
era' ion in the town hall of Wulfole mm ' ivniillll
rvili'ltiv uncrminn. i ne v.iei!i ai men; e
niei-mis 4rr iini'n pri'nj p -rr vn in.-
Maixiiift, the ii lit i I'm thiil ieg ami the op
ponent of M-etariiiB aiiproiiriatiuns. A,-.
her law, and to DEMAND FOR
EVERY C1TIZEX TFIE SAME
Kl! MT OF FREEDOM OF DIS
CISSION WHICH ONE DE
MANDS FOR HIMSELF. a.id
ahieh tlie organic law of the land
ejinrantees; are you prepared to
silent under this exhibition
nilicra y and justification of
mull rule in behalf of the papal
theory of intolerance of freedom of
tor.liiiK lo Mr. t unniiiLiham s ! trine, , religions diseuasion ? Doaa not this
evliihition of the tru spirit of the
(Miwerful, insolent, politico-relijrioua
Roman Catholic niachino, which is
already thus boldly challenging the
fundamental principle of onr free
, overnnient, dernana instant organi
zation and united action for the
preservation of all those things that
have made this republic tho greatest
and freest democracy of the world?
The issue is clear cut. Home has
tniced her intolerance through her
Knight of Columbus aad other
nij;lit riders for the pope, and this
action has been justified by tha
president of the Roman Catholic
Federation of the archdiocese of
Cardinal O'Connell. There can no
longer be any question u to the at
titude of these faithful subjects of
the sovereignty on the Tiber. The
only question that remains is, are
we ready to yield to the papal sys
tem, rather than go to the trouble
of compelling these upholders
of CRIMINAL LAWLESSNESS
AND MOROCRACY TO RE
SPECT THE LAW AND BE
LOYATj TO OUR CONSTITU
TION AND THE FUNDAMENT
AL PRINCIPLES OF OUR FREE
DEMOCRACY?
IT IS NOT A QUESTION OF
RELIGION I
IT IS FIRST AND LAST A
QUESTION OF WHETHER OR
NOT WE ARE TO MAINTAIN
OUR FREE DEMOCRACY. OU
SURRENDER TO TnE PAPAL
SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT
WHICH IS IN OPEN DEFI
ANCE OF OUR CONSTITU
TION. ITS GUARANTEES AND
THE BULWARKS OF FREE INSTITUTION!
such ier-in h. a rit'ht to take the
law iuto thrir own hiin U ami break up
tho mivtmc hei in the iniiroNrly
prante.1' Walpole tnan hull. Of roiuiu,
two tan play at that game, but one vide
never will.
" jtHTirieATiox or AXABinr"
"Mr. runningliniu 'a fundamental
argument ia a .jutinatiou of nbing
: lri than anan hy. The moh u prtt to
I judtte, wi'AoKf ieiriB h dfrnte,
uhrther Ur. Isydtn ha in frerutnt
yi-tTM dvrrnnriUd thr limit uf free
rirrch. Tlit y thru woy jud-ie uhrthrr
j or Not the aldrrmeu r. rig ur ituprny
' r'i frmifo him a jurm'f to pfak in the
j ill Ait". Having iloeiile.1 that was im-
iroMr'- ilone, thr mob ar 'aifaoi thrir
' rtiM.' mii Mr. Cunningham, in 'ufero
! iiulu.fl thi abue of fHtuer,' Iit hinaj-liinK
( all the wiU'luw in the '1y ball, uMurk-
inu rinte reKhleneen, t'atitig iefeue
! lev men an. I tryini; to kill Mr. Iyileu
' a rather ilii'riirtinnate m n i whni'-itt . br
I iIia wav if nn miju reefufv to rrilu-ur
the Mot rrrMn mnh, v hu h, aner.tfly to
Mr. CMSmifi'iim, rmii rfrri" oil the
riiihl ordinarily dtrhtrd hrtvert
nrnnd jurirt, plaintiff, cmrtj, hrrtfs
and rrrcafeiB.T. nla rrrcntue cU mtncii
burrrd. If thia is not mob rale, wbut
ia it t How amaiir.tf that such a dnetrine
I -tioulil lv diiIiIii'Iv aet forth in HoMon
neBapers in tho S'Hh century!
"It is strange that Mr. Cunningham,
aa a lawjer, does not know that ol erryy
tep in the situation created by Ur.
Leyden, Ur. CBRainanm and hit l-ri'ndi
had leant rrdret. Mr. Lrrden roulil have
I been nrrete. or siel at any time, an l
luries and oiirta eouJJ nave paw.l on
his guilt. Even after the aldermen hal
granted Mr. Leyden the hall, aa injunc
tion could have been applied for. sni the
legality or illegality of the tranaetiun
literniinej. As tha tnwa clerk at
Epbeaus said to the mob which raged
over 1'aul: 'The court am opea aad
there are judgea, let them accuse one
another;' but that would not have
quieted the excited people if be had not
been able to add : ' We axe in danger of
being accused concerning this day's riot,
there being no cauas for it, and a touch
ing it, we aball not be able to ive ac
count of thia concourse,' But then he
lived under the Roman (government at
Ephcsus, and in the firtt century, and
we live under mob rule in Massachusetts
in the 20th. And, by the way, aeoord-
ing to Mr. Cunningham a letter, tne
I Kpbenian mob were 'within their rights'
in trying to 'get' Faul. Tor he nan oeen
attacking tkeir religion for three years
and morn tbaa that, their buaiBeea, too!
"If Mr. Cunningham will read our
resolutions again, be will nee that be
make a mitt aba in aavitg that we bold
the cardinal responsible for the mob. We
were verr careful not to do that. Still
a wide-awake prelate, who bad read in
tbe papers on Monday morning aa account
of the disturbance on Sunday evening,
could have sent such word to ll aver hill
br telephone, even if it were '25 mi lea
awar.' aa would have brev-eated tbe
Moailar evenin stub.
"Tbe fundamental difficulty of Mr.
Cunningham, bowrrer, ia his antiquated
aoUoa Uat the aoarca to wkici a be
St. Paul a Orpbaa Asylum, Pittsburgh,
ra., baa feva Urge buildings. Father
Lynch, who baa beea at tbe bead of tbe
institution for twenty yearn, says it aeeds
six. So a campaign will be put ew for
one week, emnmencne; Mar 1, during
which it ia hoped that the people of that
city will dig op and turn over to the ia
atiiution t-.lO.000 the sum needed for tbe
mxth building. Father Lynch aaya that
the institution aa it now stands repre
sents aa investment of 1780.000. Aad
thev want the other quarter of a Bullion.
I'ather Lynch baa area tha plant grow
from almost nothing to iu present stu
pendous proportioBS haa ha aeew it pay
any tax for any purpose upow aay of its
property t Doea he know how sawny noa
Catholic dollars bare gone into its at noct
ure t Has tbe place bee regwlaly aad
, thoroughly iaspeetsdl
