THE BARME 'DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 45.
BAItllE, VERMONT, ' SATURDAY, MAY $, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
MAJ. M'BRIDE
EIGHTH TO DIE
Thomas Hunter and William
Cosgrove Have Death
Sentences Commuted
SULLIVAN TAKEN
FROM IRELAND
COURT MARTIAL FINDS
McBRIDE IS GUILTY
He Fought Through Boer
War and Then Took
Exile in Paris
Dublin, May 6. It was officially an
nounced to-day that Major John Mc
Brido is the eighth leader of the Sinn
Fein rebellion to suffer death by court
martial, having been shot. Thomas Hun
ter and William Cosgrove, who were sen
tenced to death with 'Major McBride,
had their sentences commuted.
Major McBride fought through the
Boer war with an Irish brigade and when
the Boers surrendered he escaped, tak
ing refuse in Paris.
Joseph Plunkett, one of the leaders of
the rebellion, was married an hour be
fore he was put to death on Thursday to
Mass Gilford, a sister ot Mrs. i nomas
McDonagh, a widow of another leader.
James M. Sullivan, former American
minister to the Dominican republic, who
has been imprisoned in Dublin castle for
several days on the charge of being im
plicated in the rebellion, probably will
be returned to-day, the officials eaid.
New Theory of Revolt's Cause.
Xew York, May 6. The assertion that
the rebellion in Ireland, which began in
Dublin April 24, was caused by the prep
arations of the authorities to disarm the
Irish volunteers, was made by Robert E.
Ford of the Irish World in a telegram
sent last night to Secretary of State Lan
sing. Included in the telegram was a
copy of orders Mr. Ford declared had
been issued by the military authorities'
in Ireland, for the arrest of all leaders
of the Sinn Fein organisation and the
Gaelic league and the occupation of their
headquarters. These orders, he said,
were read at a meeting of the Dublin
corporation on April 19. and were to be
come effective on receipt of an order
from the chief secretary s office in Dublin
Castle.
Wife Says There's- No Basis for the
Charge of His Complicity in
the Revolt.
London, May 6. Mrs. James M. Sul
livan of New York, wife of the former
United State minister to the Dominican
republic, who was arrested in Dublin
Sunday on the charge of complicity in
the Irish rebellion, reported to the Amer
ican embassy here yesterday that there
was not the slightest basis for the charge
against her husband.
Mrs. Sullivan is under the impression
that her husband has been brought to
England. If so, it may be difficult to
identify him, as the prisoners put on
board vessels at Kingstown were mere
ly numbered. The American officials are
making every effort to hnd Mr. bum-
van.
Washington, May 6. The Unitrd
States government will make no ener
getic efforts to save James M.' Sullivan,
held in Ireland for alleged complicity
in the Sinn Fein revolt, unless he can
prove his innocence.
Ambassador Page has been cabled to
for the facta, and that is as far aa the
department will go until it is shown juct
what connection, if any, Sullivan had
with the revolt, Mr. Page was merely
told, to see that Sullivan has every legal
protection guaranteed American citizens
by the treaties with England.
it is naturally exxpected that men
high in the councils of the Democratic
party who were responsible for the ap
pointment of Sullivan as minister to
San Domingo will appeal to President
Y ilson and Secretary Lansing in his bo
half, but they will have to show more
than mere political influence to be able
to get much action. If Sullivan should
prove to be guilty of complicity In the
revolt the president would be inclined
to look upon the case as one lor the
British government to settle in its own
way.
It is said here that Sullivan s son-
in-law was one of the plotters in the
revolt.
GERMANS ARE
APATHETIC
Show No Marked Interest
Either Way on the
American Note
PRESS COMMENT
IS FAVORABLE
Some Papers Express Hope
Note Will Avert War
with America
RUSSIAN "GRAVE" WAS
FILLED WITH CANNON
Arms and Munitions Unearthed in Huge
Mound in Poland.
GERMANS WIN BACK TRENCHES.
French Admit Their Defeat at Three Dh
tinct Places. -
London, May 6. Gains for the Ger
mans northwest of Verdun are chron
icled in botih the French and German offi
cial communications. North of Hill 304,
the Germans gained a foothold in French
advanced trenches and also occupied
French positions west of Avocourt and
several trenches southeast of Haucourt.
Repeated French attacks against Gur
' man positions west of Le. Mort Homm
broke down under the German fire.
Inclement weather is hampering the
infantry operations, according to the
latest official report from Paris, and bom
bardments alone are now taking place.
Hill 304, northwest of Verdun, is com
ing in for a bombardment of increased
intensity, i
In the region of the Adamello ridge,
on the Austro-Italian line, the llerce
fighting which has been in progress for
nearly a week continues unabated. In
Italians are heavily shelling the To)
mino bridgehead and there have been ar
tillery duels along the Tyrol front.
German attempts to dislodge the Rus
sians from captured positions southeast
of the Olyka station have met with fail
ure, according to Petrograd, as also have
German attacks on Russian trenches near
the Tarnopol-Pezcrna railroad.
Near Balburt, Asia Minor, the Turks
have again essayed an attack against the
Russians, but were repulsed. .Night at
tacks by the Turks near Bitlis also were
put down. Near Erzingan the Russians
captured Turkish trenches and killed or
made prisoners the occupants ot them,
26 AEROPLANES LOST.
Cracow, May 6. Austrian landsturm
men who guard the conquered territory
in southern Poland have made a sensa
tional find seven miles west of Ivangorod
on the upper V istula. The Russians here
held la very strong position until they
were forced to give it up last summer by
a flank movement of the Austrian army
commanded by Gen. Von Koevess.
When the Russians retreated they left
an immense grave, on which they had
erected a huge cross. On the board, fast
ened to the cross, they had painted the
names of about 700 soldiers supposed to
have been buried there.
Recently a landsturm officer became
suspicious of the grave on account of its
extraordinary size. It was opened and
found to contain 14 heavy and 27 light
cannon, 30 machine guns and thousands
of shells of all sizes, but not one human
body. In another spot near by 2,000
rifles, 500,000 cartridges and three car
loads of barbed wire were dug up.
Berlin, May 6. The text of Germany's
reply to the American note, which was
printed in newspaper extras, caused hard
ly a ripple of excitement. No crowds
gathered around the newspaper offices,
aiid the people generally showed marked
calmness. Noted restraint was shown in
the limited editorial comment.
On the whole the German press ap
pears satisfied with the tenor of the re
ply, although the indications were that
the attitude of the newspapers was not
wholly uninspired. home of the papws
expressed the hope that the note will
attain its aim in preventing war with
America.
MUSICAL FESTIVAL
PLANS COMPLETED
Executive Committee of Montpelier Chor
al Society Announce Names of Many
Who are to Appear at Mont
pelier May 24 and 23.
U. S. TROOPS
NEAR VILLA
PRIMARY LAW EXPLAINED.
Republican State Committee Clears Up
Some Points in Doubt.
In view of the misunderstanding
throughout Vermont of the application
of the new primary law and ot the re
lation between the primaries, the cau
cuses and the conventions to be held tin
Pershing's Head
quarters
To Ppnnrt Whifh Came from DMJnth' t,lu Republican state couimittco
The executive committee of the Mont- i . . . . has issued through ita chairman, Mun-
pelier Choral society have completed
their plans for the coming music festi
val on May 24 and 25, the sixth in the
history of the society, and now announce
to their patrons the principal feutiuos
Af . . Ar . u : ,. t ...... .
iKiui v viua luijiuituiii bciii,. . fs, , -T-r-
In presenting to the public the results HID1IN (j-r.LAC.fci bAlD
of their efforts this year, the commitee rpn Tj-rr! T. Of! A TF.T1 express their preference for a candidate
teel that they have succeeded in mam- for pregi(Jent but not doimJ away witu
llMllllj tttlO PICTIUUB lllgll BlAIIUUlU "1
musical excellence of these entertain
incuts without detracting in any way
ugh
ley C. Wilson of Chelsea, and its secrc
tary, J. Rolf Searles of St. Johnabury,
the following explanation:
The primaries to be held on May lo
are unlike the primaries to be held in
September. The presidential primaries
to be held in May are preferential ouly,
thus giving the voters an opportunity to
from the enjoyment by those unfamil- Funston Thinks That Persh
uir wnu conceit music. me arrange
ment of the concerts, the selection ot the
choral numbers and the soloists, have
been considered solely with the view of
providing a high grade musical enter
tainment that anybody may enjoy.
Ine society has been fortunate in hav
ing a larger chorus than in previous
ing May Soon Clash
with Villa's Men
the customary caucuses and conventions,
Caucuses will be held as usual at which
delegates will be elected to attend the
state convention, where delegates to the
national convention will be elected. One
change, however, should be noted, viz.,
that all of the delegates from Vermont
to the national convention will be elect
ed at the state convention, instead of
there being four elected at such conven
tion and two each at district conventions
in tiro respective congressional districts,
"JOE" CANNON
HONORED
House Stopr vVork for an
Hour t'y Tribute
t eteran
UNPRECEDENTED ACT
IN HOUSE'S HISTORY
El Paso, Tex., May 8. At Gen. Fun-
years, especially in the male section, and ston's temporary headquarters here it as heretofore.
tne enjoyment or. urn cnorai nuniucr was said yesterday atternoon a message
will be much enhanced tliereby. Ihad been received from Gen. Pershing in
Jiigni soloists appearing in soio num- wnicu us stated mai ne tnougm ue imu oi.,(;rtn nflWra Mm sumo a nf a rpn
pers supplemented oy the lioston opura locatea v ilia, tne general gave no ue- , election. The caucuses are purely a
7V ' w.u.u "7"-', -""''"party affair and held exactly as in lor
nf 9r.fl ivill ntvtit hd fsntwt ww v - j voro tint, a errant HiatnnAa from f ha innt. r
To-morrow Former Speak
er Will Be 80 Years
of Age
"The primaries to be held on May 16
will be under the state law and in charge
DUTCH HEAR NOTE
IS PEACE FEELER
Americans in Berlin are Said to Believe
that Gerard's Talk with Kaiser Had
Far Wider Range Than Sub
marine Issue.
London, May 8. The Daily News
prints prominently a long Rotterdam
dispatch, asserting there is strong be
lief in Holland that the German note was
carefully prepared in the hope that it
may lead eventually to peace negotia
tions. The dispatch save that Ameri
can circles In Berlin believe that Gerard,
during his recent visit to the kaiser at
the front, discussed matters far wider
in range than merely the questions at
issue between Berlin and Washington.
BREAK NOT LIKELY
FOR THE PRESENT
nf 9ffl vninoa iimII ntvtvlfla fitis swvn rt wprfl nnf. SL otp at r!int.nnfA from lliA unot
w " v i i mei v6Ars
many mi.es to near. v ""'": " tember will be direct nrimaries and the
The first concert, a matinee, May 24, was a cnance inat tne expeditionary i . . '. nn,inatA
an innovation inaugurated bv Mr. commander might soon get m touch with I ... 4 . ...
.,,, . 7 .7 , Villa han.li I uieir cnuiuaia lor birib aiiu wuui
Coffin in the form of an instructive and Danus. . nA wnnii. Tl,r
interesting orchestral concert, exclusive- Mmuitaneously with the receipt ot "" V? " ' ; L,,n.
l., .....i t. i i. .,. titn. Fershinir s messace cams a. rnort v"ututra i
, . uu. . .r m-uvu, t.,. t viii- I. a k.. in ber. aa the state convention for the tor
ticket nomers aiK. ononis memt.ers. ine p" a" u ar0 i the state of ""tin of a platform will be then made
?Tir nurlX hTTr iathf '? P the o,Lees of the party for state
.j, ... - 1 calitv in which American troons are lo- a"d county officers and town representa
vouni? people exclusively with a view i " W,1ILU American troops are 10 tv'.
f i. ,.t n, cated.
I i in 111.14179 IV! LITl wlllJJJf 11ICI1 1. VI 111C
pupils of our schools, as their special
concert. The motive of this orchestral
concert is, by means of music especially
SUICIDE BY RAZOR.
CAUGHT BOTH MEN.
Berlin Claims That Is the Allies' Loss
During April on Western Front.
Berlin, May 6, by wireless to Sayville
Twenty-six aeroplanes were shot down
by German aviators on the western front
. . i- a i'
in April, accoramg to oniciai ngures giv
en out here to-day. The German losses
last month amounted to 22 aeroplanes
The official announcement says:
"On the western front 26 aeroplanes
were shot down by our fliers in April,
Of these nine were captured by us. In
addition to these 10 enemy aeroplanes
were shqt down by anti-aircraft guns.
ticrman losses amount to 22 aero
planes. Of these 14 were lost in aeriul
romhats, four were shot down from the
earth and four did not return."
LINER GAVE BATTLE
And Is Thought to Have Destroyed One
of Two Attacking Submarines.
London, May 6. The British liner
Clan MaeFayden ha arrived in Grave
send from Africa somewhat damaged by
the gun fire of two Geynsn submarines.
The steamer returned the fire and it n
believed on board that one of the sub
marines was destroyed.
T he steamer reports that the first attack
on her was made in the Bay of Biscay,
when a submarine fired BO shots at her
at a range of 50 yards. The steamer im
mediately brought her big sun Into ac
tion and hit the submarine sevaral times,
and. it is believed, destroyed it.
Three hours later another submarine
fired a torpedo but miwd the dsn Msyr
Favden bv a few feet.
Andover Robbers Bound Over for October
Court.
Concord, X. H., May el George Gold-
ing, 19, of Mianinigan Falls, P. Q., and
MyrOn F. Parker, 20, of Boston, the
young men, who it is claimed, broke into
the railroad station at Andover, also into
cottages at Halcoyn and Canaan in this
state, and also at White River Junction,
Vt., were rounded up by the police at
Penaoook Thursday.
Golding was the first of the pair to
be cauglit and although Officer Samuel
Rodd fired several shots at Parker he
got away, but was later taken in cus
tody by Officers hi and John McGirr
near the Penaoook railroad station.
Both men were brought before Judge
A. Chester Clark yesterday morning and
were bound over in the sum of $800 each
for appearance at the October term of
court.
President Wilson Will Give Careful
Scrutiny to the German Note The
Official Text of Which Was Laid
Before Him To-day.
Washington, D. C, May 6. The official
text of Germany s latest note, which ar
rived by cable late last night, was ready
to be laid before President ilson to
day. The code clerk Worked most of
the night, decoding and preparing copies
for the president and his advisers. Ln
less the document is found to contain
essential difference from the unofficial
version received in press dispatches yes
terday it is considered probable that the
threatened break with Germany will not
ocour for the present at least.
President Wilson, liowever, will not
reach a definite decision before next
tack, it is said. Careful attention will
be given to the official text to discover
the fine Bhadea of meaning which may
be obscured in the Berlin news dispatches.
TWO YEARS OVER CENTURY.
Marines Land.
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic,
May 6. Marines were landed yesterdsj
from the American converted cruiser
Prairie for the protection of the Amer
ican legation. The situation growing out
of the attempt of factional leaders to
overthrow the administration of Presi
dent Jirainci is critical.
MONTPELIER
Notices were sent out to-day by Ref
eree W. N". Theriault that the discharge
meeting in the bankrupt eolate of Bruce
McDonald, will be held Juno 7.
itterio Bizzere, a granite carver,
eaves to-night for Arlington, J. J. whero
he will be engaged for the next two
months on some special work.
Kawyer and Hilo will probably con
stitute the battery of the local high
oliool baseball team this afternoon,
hen they meet Burlington high school,
with Captain Howard Tape held in re
serve In rase fvawver fails to live up to
expectations in the box. The game will
commence at 3 o'clock.
Harold Pspe. who is emploved in Bos
ton, is passing a few dsys in the eit"
with his parents on upper Main street.
Rofrer W. Hulburd of Hyde Park lelt
for his home yesterday afternoon, hav-
ng been in the city nirlv all the evk
attending supreme court.
William hsrwell of Main street left
eeterdar afternoon for Amherst. Mass..
where he will be the guest of Ifszen
Chandler, a student rt Amherst college
Miss Laura Iiurh-irik. clerk of the in
dustrial accident board, is pawing the
week end with her mther in J-t. John
burr. The condition of Carl Hoa!lev, mho
submitted to an operation for gsll stones
St lie ton mpiLl ist eineisT, the
second within to weks. ws rrnorted
to-dy as being !ightly improved.
Mr. and Mrs. T. .1. McAvov of Flm
street are the parent of a win. born May
4.
S. 8. Knswll of the (-ntrl Vermont
Isaac W. Aldrich of West Burke Still
Mentally Strong.
West Burke, May 6. Isaac W. Al
drich was 102 years old yesterday. With
his wife, who is nearly 96, Mr. Aldrich
received the congratulations of neighbors
and friends. The couple live alone on
a small farm near this village. Mrs.
Aldrich attends to the household duties
and takes care of herself and her hvs
band. His eyesight is badly impaired
but his mental faculties are alert.
Probably the oldest Democrat in Vcr
mont, Mr. Aldrich has voted the ticket
at every election since he was 21 and
retains a lively interest in state and na
tional affairs. He was a shoemaker by
trade and followed that occupation unti
a few years ago.
Mr. Aldrich was born in Richmond
N". If., tlie youngest of ten children, live
of whom lived to be past 90. He was
twice married. His first wife died in
1876. In 1877 he married Nancy Col
burn of Chesterfield, X. H. One son by
the first marriage, Henry Aldrich of Lyu
don, is the only descendant.
fives throughout the state. Town com
mittees should, therefore, bo elected at
the caucuses in May.
"The value of any nominating or elec
concert, is, Dy means or music especially i . ,.!,:. a,,a. tL M,.t.ial
adapted to (he young peo pie JUiS Middlebury Young Man Had Been
v..c ..,.u ...u iuT... ".piii. xhe state committee stands ready to do
vi uuu union. ium tliaiue li It, JUknrv -rr Tl ....... I anrlhinrr J ,na v mn.alsnt w Ml an ini-
admission is very .mall ten cent, the gfc ;f r0U6S.au; ct partial attitude,' to assist the Republi-
committee hopes that all scholars, young L:a tlr,t .t. . . ,.,',.-, . j i!.m,ki;,a mm;tt,M I.,
and old, will take advantage of this ex- honle 0 M, 8trept sterd and dipd further the true intent of the primary
ceptKtnal opportunity. f , f , . . . . n , , secnrino- as full a vote with as
Th mu.r..A ,f VSJnA..1. n. 1 - " " " p .
.v....,u ...... .v, ..u-iiousj r.cn w c-ylJ- 1,., I.. J V, !, fo ir on nnruiinn of rirotnrpneA tor nres.
ing, May 24, is devoted for the first half x'he young' ,'nan, who was about 24 yeu ident as possible on May 16. This com
10 pan, i oi iiayans in ireauon, of .e.med to Imve henome. insane mittee urees that local committees use
con.pr.sing solo, or rare beauty nor; during the day and his father was watch- their effort, to get out tlie Republican
"""" """')(, "I ""ii;" " . I, 1 I.;. .1, . h.. lvlor. 1,M, in M, ,.nn,ri. on, I til t IB
appear Miss Stoddard Mr. Beddoe and eh the house ,nd onto j,aill cauCuses which will be held on the sam
. run,, Bu.umwi. in.. ' utrect, which is near by. and leaned unou day, there U record their real wishes,
H,.m uu w.. tb. parapet of the stone bridge crossing The state committee expects later to
arias and selections of their own ,,,, ' ' . u. .,. .j . ..,i,if Kri.iiJ .m.nrln
,7'; :,, . ,T "";" j brother, Lewis, who was boarding at the the law which will bear on the teptem
Lord Is Great," will introduce them and ,. MK .... ...a w :.:. h Vnvmw oWtinns
the chorus in 1 one of the most thrilling to th y, ,U(.ceejed in ettinj him Meanwhile we hope local committees wilt
numbers of the entire program. This is offipe w f j examine published copies of the laws and
... ...av White nH Krfwarit K fartin nor a im. I fimilmrirn t.hemse ves with this DWVli
moncd to sssist Dr. Kddy, but so much ion so far as they can."
blood had been lost that tJiey were un
Washington, D. C, May 6. Party liuea
disappeared and old scores were forgot
ten by the House to-day when, during
the first hour of the regular session, it
joined in paying a tribute to Representa
tive Cannon of Illinois, former speaker, '
who will be 80 years old to-morrow.
Kever before in the history of the House
has an hour of a wnorking session beeu
set aside to honor a living member.
One of the original revolters against
the so-called Cannon rule, Representa-.
tive Cooper of Wisconsin, who for years
fought the then speaker, was to-day
present during the greater part of tlie
ceremonies as a friend. Representative
Cannon is now closing his twentieth
term in Congress. He first was elected
to the 43d Congress and but twice lias
he been defeated, once in 18U2 and again
in I'Jiz.
NO INSURANCE CARRIED.
HELD AS ALLEGED THIEF.
Edward Slocum Was Doing Roller Skat
inj Stunts in Bennington.
Bennington, May 6. Edward Slocum,
a young man who has been performing
on the streets on roller skates and act
ing as a bully ho man for a local mov
ing picture theatre, was arraigned iu
municipal court yesterday afternoon on
the charge of breaking and entering and
held in the rum of $.Wl for the grand
jury which meets at Manchester on the
first Tuesday in June.
Slocum is charged with the thelt t
jewelry from the home of Mrs. Charles
Palmer on Park street. He was arreet-
ed at Korth Bennington Thursday after
noon while he was waiting to take the
northbound train for Rutland.
In his suit case the officers found a
quantity of jeweiry and two revolvers,
all of which, it is charged, he took from
the Fslraer home.
TORPEDO BOAT LOST.
Commerce War Contiauea.
Ijonon. May fl. The British steamer
Kusbon has ben sunk by a eubmarine,
(swrdmg to Lloyds. The crew was
pk-ked up by the Italian steamer M.u-rU.
raiirod retutTiH Ut eienitig to St. Ai
Tnon. May . The rren'h bark L ban. a;tr a bnff int in tat t;ty un and four patient were kiilcj and five in
1'U.er Las beea suck, business. jured."
French Report Tteir Success in Adriatic
Sea.
Korre. Tia Pari. May . ''The French
submarine Bernouii'e sank an enemy tor
pf !o boat in the lower Adriatic sea yes
teHsy. says an official communication
iuel lat evening.
"i'He enemy aerop!ni raided PrimliM
th" mme dv. lionid fell on a ho-pital
ments that has yet been given and ia
the only appearance of Miss Stoddart
and Mr. Hint.
The orchestral matinee, May 25, will
open with Meyerbeera ... Coronation
Maren," by the chorus and will present
for the first time on the society s pro
gram, Mrs. Elizabeth Bradish, dramatic
soprano, and Miss Dorothy Parker, pia
tst, both from Burlington, who will be
heard in solo selections. The remainder
of the program will consist of special
orchestral numbers by the Boston opera
house orchestra, the only concert in
which these musicians may be heard in
instrumental numbers apart from the
chorus and soloists; and from past ex
perience this will be a genuine treat.
The festival will close on Thursday
evening, May 25, with a concert in which
four soloists will appear, Mme. Rio, Miss
Ricker, Mr. BeoMoe and Mr. Ferguson,
and who will also assist the chorus in
the opening number, "The Swsn and
Skylark," by A. Goring Thomas, af com
position in a class by itself; of a lyrin
nature, it abounds in passages quite out j
of the ordinary for ciioral compositions
Thee four soloists will be heard in their
own numbers snd the prTgram will clo.e
with an arrangement of A. Buizi-rec-
ia s, "Gloria, one of the greatest short
choral numbers.
Of the soloISis mentioned above, it
may be said that no better talent as 1
whole Ims appeared at any previous fes
tival, and it is worthy of not that only
one of this group, Mr. Ferfpison, has ap
peared here before.
It is with pleasure that the society
presents Mme. Anita Rio, the American
prurutdonns soprano, who has been win
ning triumph in opera and concert for
the past few years in Kurope and Amer
ica, appearing on the same program with
Caruso, A ma to and Bond, and known
in the large cities of Europe as America's
festival soprano
Mr. Dan Beddoe, the famous Welsh
tenor, of Xew York, has sung at the
principal music festivals in the L'nited
Statee and Canada, and is rated one of
the best, feHival tenors on the concert
stage to-day, being repeatedly engaged
for the Cincinnati, St. Louis and Chicago
festivals.
Miss Msrie Stoddart, of Xew York,
dramatic soprano, has lmd broad expe
rience in recital, oratorio, and concert
work with a permanently established
position in nearly every city in this
country and possesses, according to her
critics, a voice, charmingly melodious,
ample in size and power, and unusually
flexible.
Mr. Willard Flint, basso-canfante,
stands, pre-eminently, the most re
nowned New England hasso and one of
the foreiikost in this country. In solo
part of "The Creation," In which he
will appear, he has no superior, if an
equal in tliia country, having had repeat
ed engagements in Chicago, Boeton snd
New York, hsving recently completed
hia seventh engagement with the Handel
snd Hsdyn society of Boston.
Mr. Bernard Ferguson, the only artist
who has appeared here before, possesses
a fine baritone voice that needs no in
troduction to our patrons. Mr. Fergu
son has continually improved since hia
last appearance and has filled many
notable engagement oier the entire
country, and will be welcomed again by
ho who admired his wcai accomplish
ment last vear.
Misa Katherine Riiker. tbe contralto
soloist, of the Central ngregatkmsl
hurrh, BoMon, a member of the fa
mous quartet comjiosed of William Flint,
Arthur Hacktt and Mrs. Littlefield. has
appeared at ail the prominent festivals
of Ma.srhuett and Maine, including
eierl engagements with the WorceutT
and Port hind wietie.
Mrs. F.!i7a!rth Bradish. dramatic so-j
prao. Burlington, ia the only vocal solo-
able to take any measures to save his
life, the jugular vein having been partial
ly severed.
Young Broussesti wss of such a cheer
ful disposition that he had for years
been called "Happy" by his friends. No
reason except temporary aberration of the
mind can be assigned for his act. The
young man had been a great traveler and
aside from several trips to different
parts of the far West and eastern states,
had a few years ago made a trip in
charge of livestock to South Africa. Re
cently he had returned from Providence,!
K. I., where he had a position in a wira
manufacturing establishment. He leaves
his father, two brothers aud five sisters.
The remains were taken to the under
taking rooms of A. J. Blackmer, wlnre
an autopsy wss performed by Dr. II. 8,
Mone of the state laboratory of Burling
ton, and Doctors Eddy, Martin and Dor
ey of Middlebury.
MUCH ANXIETY FELT.
FEW CHANGES ASKED.
Till It Was Learned That Miss Mattw
Fiske of Stowe Was Safe.
Stowe, May 6. The people at the On
tral telephone office and subscribers on
line 17 to Waterbury ('enter were kept
busy a large tiart ot Thursday night in
a vain attempt by her friends at Water
bury Center to locate Miss Mattie Fiske
of that place. Misa Fiske, who is 23
years of age, and nearly blind, was iu
Moscow Thursday afternoon. She leit
J,eon Rutts' house after supper to walk
to waterbury lnter. At about hall
past nine when she did not reach home
her father and other friends became
anxious about ' her. They ascertained
that she was seen passing the power
station of the Jit. Mansfield electric rail
way on the main road to Waterburr
about 8 o'clock, but were unable to ob
tain any trace of her after that. After
the fruitless quest of the night they were
about to set out on an organized search
Friday morning when word was received
that the young lady had passed the
night at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. F.
Hodge on the Gregg hill road, where she
arrived at about P:30 Thursday even
ing, having taken the wrong road at
Shutesville.
Banks Ordered to Report as of May 1.
Washington, D. C, May 6. Tlie comp
troller of the currency to-day issued a
all to all national banks requiring them
to report their condition at the close of
business May 1.
Barre Voters Not Greatly Concerned in
Presidential Primary.
Only five cases were considered at the
meeting of the board of civil authority
in the court room at city hall ana unless
the number of names to be added to the
checklists for the presidential primary
May lo is greatly increased at tne next
meeting of the board, it is probable that
the lists printed for the March elections
will be used again, beven members 01
the board were present and Alderman A.
M. Rossi acted as chairman, lhree ap
pearances were 'Carl C. Perkins, trans'
ferred from the second to the first ward
M. F. Spencer to the second ward and
Ewen McKenzie from the third to the
first ward. Additions were John McPhee
in ward 3 and George Kent in ward 1.
Promptly at 7 o'clock the board convened,
only to adjourn a short time afterward
when it became evident that the response
was not to be nearly as large as at the
meetings preceding the March election.
Whether the slim attendance was due
to the fact that the checklist was revised
less than two months ago, or to a lack
of interest in the forthcoming primary is
a matter for conjecture. Doubtless both
circumstances combine to account for the
deficiency in numbers. The board meets
for the last time prior to the primary in
the court room on the evening of Wednes
day, May 10, at 7 o'clock.
On Saw Mill Property at Stockbridge,
Which Was Burned.
Bethel, May 6. The steam mill of the
Rythcr & Purdy Lumber company in
Stockbridge was consumed by fire at au
early hour yesterday morning. The
men at the boarding house were awak
ened about 1 o'clock by the fire, which
was then under good headway, and noth
ing could be done to stop it. The loss
is from .f.1,000 to $4,000. About 50,000
feet of lumber piled near the mill was
burned. The engine, boiler and some
other machinery were not seriously dam
aged,, it is hoped. There was no insur
ance on any of the property.
About 15 men are thrown out of em
ployment by the fire. The company
had been operating a year. or more at
that place and the chances are that the
mill will not be rebuilt. Among the
workmen at the mill were Joseph G.
Fuller and Fred Cl'odgo of this town.
TO LAST ANOTHER WEEK.
Trial of Former Brattleboro Banker in
Federal Court.
Burlington, Mav 6. The case of the
l'nited States against George C. Averill,
ex-president of the Vermont Xational
bank of Brattleboro, now on trial in
United States district court, will take up
most of next week. Besides the teller,
there were heard yesterday William A.
Stone and Leelie Hinds of the First Xa
tional bank of Concord, X. H., W. L.
Swindlehurst, bookkeeper of the Sliaw
mut bank of Boston, A. F. Schwenk, di
rector of the Howland Pulp & Paper Co.,
W. A. Shumway of Brattleboro, secretary-treasurer
of the same company, H.
Hooper of Howland, Me., resident
manager of the paper company, Emma C.
Shaw, bookkeeper of the paper company,
huward F. Wolfe, ex-cashier of the er
mont Xational bank, and C. G. Staples of
the same bank.
WRANGLED OVER SMALL CASE.
Reports from the bedside of William
M. Stewart of the Morse block this fore
noon indicated that his condition was
very low .
gram. The society is pleased to have
the opportunity to present to its pat
rms a talented and cultured artist from
this state and one pomting a voice
that has substance, quality and character.
Mins Dorothy Parker, pianist, of Bur
liiigton, has been engaged for man
years in recital snd concert work in
New England and has for the past fe
years been conducting clashes in piano
study in Burlington. Mis Parker comes
well recommendi as an accomplished
soloist and w ill undoubtedly prwe a no
table adi:tion to the program
Jury Came in for Instructions After Hav
ing Suit AH Night.
Reporting to Washington county court
at 0 o'clock this forenoon that they had
been unable to reach a decision in the
civil case of Dennis Pocket vs. George 1L
Almon rt ux, the jury wss instructed by
Judge Butler to retire again and endeav
or to agree upon some conclusion. Judge
Butler emphasized the importance of a
verdict being reacnea; me amount in
volved, $87, is small, but nevertheless
the issue is important to the parties in
terested and the trial cost the state con
siderable expense.
The case went to the jury at 8:V) last
evening and from that time until mid
night, it is reported, allowing an hour
for supper, the jurymen wrangled but
failed to reach any decision. Arising
early this morning, the questions were
cam taken up without definite result.
After going over some of the points, in
n effort to clear the minds ot any who
might be hsry on some questions. Judge
Butler repeated some of his former in
structions and asked the jury to retire
tigain snd endeavor to fome to a conclusion.
FOR EXPERIENCED RESERVE.
Senate Committee Approves Naval Meas
ure. Washington, May 6. The Senate naval
committee yesterday approved the navy
department's bill for naval reserve of
former officers and enlisted men, avail
able merchant marine officers, sailors and
other persons whose occupations fit them
to enroll for war duty. A volunteer re
serve W'Oiild include persons willing to
train without compensation for war duty.
TALK OF THE TOWN
ORANGE COUNTY CASE HEARD.
Louis Marolini vs. C. C. Gifford Argued in
Supreme Court.
Supreme court took a recess late yes
terday afternoon until Tuesday forenoon
after hearing two canes and part of a
third yefterday. The last cae argued
was that of Louis Mazolini vs. C. C. Gif
ford. Orsnre county. In the lower court
the phiintiir received a verdict for dam
ages amounting to $tVA K. I Scott and
K. A. Hoar appeared for the plaintiff and
March M. and Stanley C. Wilson for the
defendant.
Imo!lle County Svinc 4 Trut Co.
vs. H. W. P.elden et al, a forcvUwure case.
Advance tickets are now in tiie hands' was also heard durin? the d.y, HuH-url
of the members, or may be had of Mi
Agne F-nfflish, Montpelier or Mn. E. J.
RatohelfieT of Rarre.
PTie: Season ticket admitting to
all four concerts and having frt ehoi. e
of .!; eveninc. 7V. $1. and -1..V';
and Kedmond reprrert me the plaint. (T
and L G. Lrarv the defendant.
Mrs. William Steward nnd little son,
who have been at the City hospital for
several days, were able to return to their
home on Mount street to-day.
Judjre H. B. Howe of the United States
court has written local persons interest
ed in naturalization that he will preside
over a session of court at the capital this
month if possible. More than 130 pros
pective citizens in Barre, Barre Town,
Bethel and South Ryegate are awaiting
the next session of court for their final
papers. .Most ot the l.Vi and more ap
plied for their first and second papers in
the winter. Candidates who appeared
before Clerk F. S. Piatt in Barre a fort
night ago will not be naturalized until
sometime in the summer or early fall, as
papers of citizenship arc not granted un
til !0 days after application.
Barre granite manufacturers and a few
guests gathered in the association hall
lct evening for the second of a series of
educational meeting's. All told, nearly
13) persons were in the audience when
Alexander Puncin. president of the asso
ciation. introdmTd the first fr-kr. Wil-
linm Barclay, who spoke on "Th Cost
System." Mr. Barclay's contribution to
the series was the product of much care
ful study and nmny intcreting sidelights
on Ihe cost problems confronting trm
Cranite manufacturer were shed in the
course of tiis remarks. The spoaker in
timated C at a pond proportion of h
listeners would surely profit by the intro
duction of an adequate method of ases.
iv.g costs m the con 'uet of their blincs.
Afterw-ard Henry t". Vhitakr of Chi
rajro. III.. eH.tof of the Monumental New,
irave an interest inp informal talk on
"I niform Prices." hi remark bavirz to
do with C-c v!-ic of sur riffr.ir to a
Funeral of Mrs. Fred C. Bancroft.
The funeral of the Into Mrs. Fred C.
I jm rort nil r nei i ,".i r iaie iion;e cn common e rne oi pru-es m rm.niinien-
Thurily matinee. .Vic; student reatinee. ' eat V, I Sun-!jv at - p. m.. K-v. .1. U.'tsl wrk. V.r-f :ehnient .t In
edm-sday. Sir.g'e taketa sold t Bcardon officiating. Interment wul be in -mu'wi. hes mme at the lose vt aa un-
?t from YermoEt to appear oa ux fro- sUiictU only, L'cn wood caetrv. usually rr- Stable mcetirj.
