! i " " , ,
i( II itifiiiii Hitr" rliiiii
mill HlJSy.J
jvtxJix Jjiyjiiyw
Vol. 20
EAST JORDAN. MICHIGAN, SATURDAY. MAY 6. 1916.
No. 19
i
Art Exhibit
Next Week
Two Hundred Pictures Displayed
Under Auspices of Our
Public Schools.
The public will have an exceptional
opportunity next week when a large!
ran exhibit of the world's master
peices in art will be placed on display
by the local schools. The pictures will
be arranged in the north side of the
Temple Theatre building which will be
open to the public every afternoon and
evening from Wednesday' to Saturday,
May 10-13. An admission fee of ten
cents will be charged and the proceeds
will be used for the purchase of pic
tures for the schools.
There are about two hundred pictures
included in the collection, consisting of
carbon photographs, photogravures
and prints in full color made directly
from the original masterpieces and
selected by art experts. There are
several reasons for bringing this ex
hibit to East Jordan. The first is to
give people an opportunity to see a
collection of the world's greatest mas
terpieces of painting, sculpture and
Architecture. Second, to make it pos
sible for pupils of the schools to make
a study of the great pictures. Third,
to give people who wish pictures for
their homes an opportunity to order
same and know what they will get.
Fourth, to make it possible for the
public to own a few of these pictures
in the schools. The company owning
the exhibit will furnish with it cata
logues of all pictures shown so that
anyone may understand and appreci
ate them.
This collection of pictures has a
definite educational purpose in view,
being arranged to show the develop
ment of art from the pyramids and
temples of Egypt through the fine old
classic architecture and sculpture.
Italion painting, Dutch, French, Span
ish, English and American. Many peo
ple think that they cannot understand
the great masterpieces but it is usually
because they have never been shown
just what it is about the work that
makes them great. Everyone should
attend this exhibit and learn to have a
greater appreciation for the beautiful.
The great majority of us will never
have an opportunity to seethe originals
of these pictures, as they are scattered
all over the world, chiefly in Europe,
and an opportunity of this kind, that
enables one to see and study the real
art, although reproduced, should be
taken advantage of by many.
All of the pr oceeds of the admission
fees will be used for the purchase of
pictures for the schools and those who
.ti i ...:n i,i i .. i i
uueiiu win neip in ucauiuy uur jcuuui
rooms as well as get much pleasure
from viewing the exhibit.
CIRCUIT COURT JURORS
List of the iVtit Jurors, for the May
term of Court for Charlevoix County.
C. II. Tooley LSoyne City, 1st. Ward
Rullctt Ross Charlevoix, 1st. Ward
E. V. Madison Charlevoix, 2nd. Ward
Joseph Cooper Charlevoix, 3rd. Ward
Allen J. Malone E. Jordan, 1st. Ward
Enoch Giles East Jordan, 2nd. Ward
Roy Sherman East Jordan, 3rd. Ward
Charles E. Kctoskey Day
Jim F. 'Newson Doyne Valley
Phares Weinburg Chandler
Morris Stanbrough Charlevoix
Porter Smith Evangeline
Arthur Nicloy Eveline
William Meyer Hayes
Geo. Smith Hudson
lien Nowland Marion
Calvin Howard Melrose
Lawrence VanDusen Norwood
Frank McCafferty Peaine
LeRoy Fowler South Arm
Clarence Iiissell St. James
Edward Winkler Wilson
John Doxnburg Doyne City, 1st. Ward
Jasper Holmes Sr., Doyne " 2nd. Ward
DO YOU KNOW THAT
Light promotes cleanliness?
A clean mouth is essential to good
health?
. Physical training in childhood is the
' Jundation of adult health?
The U. S. Public Health Service
issues publications on hygiene andsani
tation for free distribution?
" Isolation is the most efficient means
of controlling leprosy?
Headache is Nature's warning that
the human machine is running badly?
Dullets may kill thousands flies tens
of thousands?
Obesity menaces longevity?
FORMER E. JORDAN GIRL
MARRIED AT ABERDEEN.
From the Aberdeen Wash., Daily
World of April 22nd, we clip the follow
ing relative to the marriage of Miss
Hazel Shapton, a former resident of
this city.
Wednesday evening at 8:30 o'clock
at the home of the bride's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. J. D. Shapton, occurred the
marriage of their daughter, Hazel
Isobel, to Mr. Harry J. Means. Rev.
Charles McDermoth of the First Con
gregational Church performed the
ceremony in the presence of the family,
relatives and a few friends. The bride
was gowned in a gray taffeta suit with
a rose pink hat to match and carried
an arm bouquet of bride's roses and
lilies of the valley. The living room in
which the ceremony was performed
was decorated with Easter lilies, nar
cissus and apple blossoms. The dining
room, where a buffet lunch was ser
ved, was decorated with evergreen and
daffodils. Mr. and Mrs. Means will
leave next week for California, New
Orleans, Chicago and other eastern
cities. Mr. Means is employed as city
passenger agent fpr the Northern Paci
fic Railway Co., and the bride is a
popular young lady of this city. Mr.
and Mrs. Means will make their home
in Aberdeen upon their return.
MISS LOTTIE STRONG
MARRIED AT TOLEDO.
Announcements are out of the marri
age of Miss Lottie Strong, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Strong of this city,
to Henry Dechtold of Toledo, Ohio.
The groom is a telegraph operator on
the Wabash R. R., and the couple will
make their home in Toledo.
Commission Proceedings.
Regular meeting of the City Com
mission held at the commission rooms,
Monday evening, May 1, 101G. Meet
ing was called to order by Mayor "Cross.
Present Cross, Gidley and Lancaster.
Absent None.
Minutes of the last meeting were
read and approved.
On motion by Gidley, the following
bills were allowed:
E. Jordan Hose Co., thawing
hydrants, $ 14.C0
Crandall Packing Co., packing, 110.75
Chas. Hudson, G pr. rubber boots, 33.00
J. A. Lancaster, salary, .. 25.00
Doubleday Sc Co., dog tags etc., (5.30
Henry Cook, salary, 75.00
D. H. Fitch, salary and rental, 24. 1G
Elec. Light Co., lighting and
pumping, . . 310.95
Otis J. Smith, salary, express
and postage, 2S.52
Mich. State Tel. Co., rentals .. G 25
Applications having been filed, mo.
tion was made by Lancaster, supported
by Gidley, that the following named
persons be granted permission to con
struct cement walks: Roscoe Mackey
Lots 11 and 12, Dlock G. John Cum
mins Sr., Lot 3, Dloek C, former
village of South Arm. Motion carried.
The following resolution was offered
bv Commissioner Lancaster, who mov
ed its adoption, seconded by Commis
sioner Gidley:
Whereas, drivers of motor vehicles
are wantonly and repeatedly violating
the state law regarding the speeding of
such vehicles within the city limits,
and,
Whereas, it is the opinion of this
commission that the lives of pedestri
ans are greatly endangered thereby,
therefore,
Resolved, That the chief of police
be, and is, hereby ordered to arrest all
violators of said law regarding the
speeding of said vehicles.
Adopted by the City Commission of
the City of East Jordan on the first
day of May, A. 1). 1910, by an aye and
nay vote as follows: Ayes Cross, Gid
ley and Lancaster, Nays None.
The following appointments were
made by a majority vote of the com
mission: City Clerk, Otis J. Smith;
City Treasurer, Win. A. Pickard;
Doard of Review, Wm. F. Dashaw and
Dwight L. Wilson.
On motion by Gidley, meeting was
adjourned.
OTIS J. SMITH,
City Clerk.
Census Taker: "How many children
have you?"
Citizen: "Three." i
Census Taker: "Altogether?"
Citizen: "No, one at a time."
It pleases the average man more to
have a woman tell him that he is the
first man she ever loveJ than to have
her tell him the truth.
Let's Get
By LEWIS
Superintendent East
Spring never comes without bringing with it a restlessness that
seems to affect the entire community. Many people begin to look
around for new opportunities; the farmer, the merchant, the work
ingman, are all more or less discontented and on the alert for a new
location, a new way of stimulating business or a new job. It is a
characteristic of human nature to be .attracted by things new, untried
or far away.
Are you Mr. Farmer, Mr. Merchant, Mr. Workingman, one of
those who has the moving fever? Do you have the hunch that some
where far away a better opportunity is waiting for you? Are you
discouraged by the failure of cropsthe slackness of 'business or the
scarcity of work?
Perhaps you want to move to Oklahoma and enjoy the rainwater
or alkali tainted water that they have to use for drinking purposes
there. It may be that you have your eyes on Florida and would like
to invest there and buy at least fifty pounds of fertilizer for every
orange tree eyery year, fight the fruit tree insects that thrive in that
climate and besides have your crops injured by frost almost as often
as in the North. Possibly you are thinking of moving to Southern
Michigan and have the pleasure of cultivating land so stony that a
potato has to be planted edgeways. Maybe you want to go to Indiana
and have your horses wallow to market through the mud of their clay
highways. Or perhaps you want to move to the Northwest and pay
higher prices for everything you eat, wear or use? If you don't
believe that these conditions exist in the sections mentioned ask
someone who has been there.
Mr Man, listen! What does it mean to you that the best authori
ties on fruit raising in the state come to this section to invest their
money and do their fruit farming? What does it mean to you to have
for yourself and family the best drinking water that is found in the
whole country? What does it mean to you that people who can
afford to go anywhere they wish flock to Northern Michigan every
summer to enjoy this wonderful climate? What does it mean to you
to live where you know and are known and where every bank in the
county is ready to stand behind you in any safe and sane enterprise?
Occasionally a man goes to a new location and succeeds but did
you ever notice how scarce such cases are? What we need is not a
new opportunity but better and more efficient methods of using what
we already have. LET'S GET TOGETHER, farmers, merchants,
professional men, workingmen, and EVERLASTINGLY DOOST the
advantages of this locality. Let's co-operate for better roads, better
schools, better farms, more good feeling between the farm and the
town, and for a more productive, more prosperous and more content
ed community in general.
HT "- H'
cr.u innr rtt un ami n
Ml.i)i.pMiii.'l:il!!i;iH!!
M ?k F Y WP Vr H
fFhat the Engineers are Doing
Pjlsjrl I RTY thousand American engineers are
liM Kfjji making a card index survey ol American in
ptj fA dustry so that it may be prepared for its vital
- juri in ucicuum uic wjumiy, 11 ustu vvmw.
The past eighteen months have taught us here in
America what lack of industrial preparedness has meant
to some of the countries now at war These nations
had the ships and they had the men; but when the hour
struck, their factories were not able to furnish the colors
with arms and shells and powder Their factories were
not prepared And our factories arc not prepared.
But h is not enough to draw a moral. In the United States five
great Engineering Societies Civil, Mining, Mechanical, Electrical
and Chemical hare pledged their services to the Government of the
United States, and are already working hand in hand with the Govern
ment to prepare industry for the national defense. They receive no
pay and will accept no pay. All they seek is opportunity to serve their
country, that she may have her industries mobilised for defense.
All elements of the nation's life the manufacturers, the business
men, and the workingmen should support this patriotic and demo
cratic work of the engineers, and assist them cheerfully when asked.
There tan be no better national insurance against war. ,
The Associated Advertising Clubs of the World, representing
all advertising interests have offered their free and hearty service to the
President of the United States, in close co-operation with these five
Engineering Societies, to the end that the Country may know what the
Engineers are doing. The President has accepted the offer. The
Engineers have welcomed the cooperation.
This advertisement, published without cost to the United States, s
the first in a nation-wide series to call the country to the duty of co
operating promptly and fully with the Engineers
NAVAL CONSULTINO BOARD OF THE UNITED STATES
ti co-oriftnv n
T.i Aa.air.a 1mm m On Ixmiii
BNOIMttRINO OCIBTIta BUILDIMO
MaiilllBiM
- - - -t y
Read the opening chapters of
"The Grand Getaway"
Together!
P. IIOLI.IDAY
Jordan Public Schools.
T
rii;iiHi!;iiii!j!i!;iijiji'iiji
i A f
Ti Anir Sortrw Mrn.wi ikkiw
Thi Aaiur.' UnitvTf m EnmitM lacmiiM
n win wTN TrT. niw roR
""' v'f
IN THIS ISSUE OF THE HERALD.
SOMETHING ABOUT MAY
By "Observer."
Just where or how the month of May
derived its name is not easily deter
mined. What is regarded as authority,
however, says the name originated
from the word Mairoes, the senate in
the original constitution of Rome. The
old version that May was named in
honor of Mair, mother of Hermes, is
now said to be erroneous and was
merely surmised because of the simi
larity of the two names.
With the exception of Decoration
Day, on the 30th, the month is without
a holiday or a day given special im
portance either by tradition or history.
Up until half a. century ago, the open
ing day of the month was almost uni
versally observed as "May Day," when
out-door festivals were held, and when
a May pole was the central attraction.
On the evening before May 1st, baskets
of flowers were distributed from friend
to friend, the distribution generally be
ing in secret. The baskets were left
on the door steps after night had fallen.
There are different versions of the
origin of Decoration Day. Tradition
has it that a German soldier who, com
ing to this country at the time the Civil
War broke out, enlisted. After the
war was over he remarked that in Ger
many it was customary to scatter the
flowers on the graves of soldiers once
a year. This is supposed to be the
the origin of Decoration Day. In May,
1808, Adj. Gen. M. P. Shipman suggest
ed this custom to Gen. Logan of the
G. A. R. who immediately issued an
order in which he named the 30th day
of May, 1SGS "For the purpose of
strewing with flowers or otherwise
decorating the graves of.comrades who
died in defense of their country and
whose bodies lie in almost every city,
village, or hamlet churchyard in the
land.
ALONG THE FIRING LINE
Homer Brett, U. S. Consul at La-
Guaira, Venezuela, says in his report:
"The United States sold more agricul
tural implements in Venezuela in the
first six months of 1915 than in any en
tire year. This trade has been bene
fited because of the good prospects the
war has brought to the Venezuela sugar
industry." This is quoted as an excel
lent example of what is meant by the
indirect action of the European struggle
on our present prosperity. It is not a
question of politics.
A progressive caucus recently held
in a Maine city comprised sixteen men
who proceeded to name nine dele
gates and nine alternates to a State
csnvention. Wonder who the other
two were.
Steel rail production is one of the
best indications of the country's busi
ness. The last Republican tariff law
became effective the latter part of 1900.
During 1910 our mills produced 3,034,-
000 tons of steel rails. In 1911, 2,823,
000 tons. In 1912, 3.328,000 tons. In
1913, nine months of which was under
the Republican law, we produced 3,503,-
000 tons. The Democratic tariff law
took effect October 4, 1913, and in 1914
our steel rail production dropped to 1,
945,000 tons, while importations from
Canada increased 120 percent. In 1915
we prgduced 2,204,000 tons, and im
ports from Canada, compared with 1913
increased over 050 per cent. Under
the abnormal conditions created by the
war the United States is now the chief
source of supply for rails, and since
January first of the present year orders
have been booked for 2,200,000 tons.
Do not get an Idea this is due to the
wonderful success of the Democratic
Administration, although they are try
ing to take credit for it.
At the trade conference held in
Buenos Aires, Secretary William G.
McAdoo, of the Treasury, is reported to
have favored the general use of the
metric system. The Secretary's manip
ulation of the net balance in the gener
al fund of the Treasury is about all the
confrsion we can stand for awhile.
There is an old line to the effect that
"it takes nine tailors to make a man."
A Japanese tailor is paid 32 cents a day
Nine Japanese tailors get about what
one American tailor is paid and the
Democratic low tariff will give all
Japanese tailors a job working on
clothing measured in America and
m de up in Japan. Such is the folly of
the law.
An Ohio couple kept their marriage
a secret for six years and, strange to
say, the woman in the case wasn't a
mute, at that.
ELBERT BEDE SAYS
Pork barrel politics may yet put the
country on the hog.
The way to keep the boy on the farm
is to have a neighbor with a plump,
good looking daughter.
None of the monarchs of Europe seem
to be very keen after the 1916 peace'
prize.
The small boy only refers to what
other boys are allowed to do when he
wants to do something he shouldn't do
or which he has been told not to do.
Fifty years from now it may be quite
distinction to be a member of the
Society of Supervisors of the Ford
Peace Mission.
The farmer's boy these days knows
more about a carbureter and a differen
tial than he does about a breaking plow
and harrow.
Another man has been sentenced to
150 years' imprisonment. Even with
reductions for good behavior that is
going to be a lesson that he will remem
ber for a long time afterwards.
Bernard Shaw, or some one of equal
prominence, once said he would not be
mother for $10,000. Possibly he
couldn't find anyone willing to have
mi tor a mother at that price.
When a girl knows you are comine
to spend the evening and you find her
with a raw onion breath, somehow you
get suspicious that possibly your com
pany isn't welcomed quite so ardently
as you might wish.
An egotist thinks he is the whole
country, and as the "whole country"
unanimously approve his actions, he is
kept busy smiling back his appreciation
and thereby gets the reputation of hav
ing a smiling disposition.
This Week as it is Not in History
Monday, May 1. Edgar Allen Poe
gives to the world a cure for Jim
Jams, 2010.
Tuesday, May 2. Andrew Jackson
rides in the first Kentucky Derby,
1810..
Wednesday, May 3. Betsy Ross de
signs the first Tango dress, 1705.
Thursday, May 4. Mr. Dooly sings in
Grand Opera, 1990.
Friday, May 5. Thomas Edison invents
hog jowl and greens, 1550.
Saturday, May 6. Pilgrams land on the
Mississippi delta, 1610.
Sunday, May 7. De Soto buys an auto
and rides to the banks of the Missis
sippi, 15S0.
School Commissioner's
Notes
May L. Stewart, Commissioner
Maple Grove had a box 'social and
raised $10.50 for a drinking fouutain.
Examination returns coming in daily
now. They show a marked improve
ment over the mid-winter averages.
Debate on warning American citizens
from sailing on armed belligerent
vessels in Charlevoix High, Friday. It
was a privilege to hear it.
Eighth grade examinations in Physi
ology and Geography in the morning of
the second day, Fnday the 12th, 9:11 a.
m. Seventh grade writers therefore
will need to be present only on the
morning of the second day.
' School gardens and bird houses now
in construction. "Somewhere the
birds are singing evermore."
Normal students attended the com
missioner in visiting schools last week
and observed work in Marion, Hayes
and Bay.
i
Mr. Erfourth at Horton Bay says he
has been assured of new seats for the
scliool room for next year. These have
been badly needed for some time and
will effect several of the hoped for im
provements. Teachers examination April 27-29th.
There were 2G applicants of whom 5
wrote on second grade and the remain
der on third.
For those writing without experience
or normal training certificates will bt
held until statement of normal training
is sent in. Several applicants will have
to wait until the" close of the summer
session of the state normal schools.
Second round of visits completed in
all but the Beavers. They're next
The commissioner regrets that the
Nowland school, North Bay and Gill
school had closed for a few days before
she arrived for a second visit
