4 r'"
" 5
i 1 I f ! (7- I 1 1 I i I i "II' i I
I i 1 :
i .- M r.:
mi::
PRICE two cent:
VOL LVHL fQ. 10
POPULATION 23,219
NORWICH, CONiTj WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1916
TEN PAGES'
Tha Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That: of Any Other Paper, 'and Its Total Circulation is the Lai X '9nnscticut Fportion tb thb City's; Population
U1
ESOMBMO IS M
lEGIMBSE
The Great Montenegrin Stronghold, Mount Lovcen,
Has Fallen, According to Austrian Reports.
ADRIATIC COAST POSITIONS ARE MENACED
Battle is Raging in the Whole Northern and Eastern Frontiers
of Montenegro -Austrians Are Being Assisted by War
ship and the Guns of Cattaro Forts Montenegrins
Claim Austrians Are Making Use of Asphyxiating Gas
Contrivances Cold Weather Has Caused Cessation of
Hostilities on Russian Fwnt Interest in the West is
Centered in the Champagne Region.
i
London, Jan. 11, 19.S4 p. m. Monte
negro is being treated to a steam roller
attack similar to that -which crumpled
up Its friend and neighbor, Serbia. The
Austrian onslaught, which has been a
long time in preparation, is now being
prosecuted, with great, violence, menac
ing several important , positions close
to the Adriatio coast.
'Mount '.Lovcen' Has Fallen.
'?' The great Montenegrin stronghold,
Mount Lovcen, has fallen, according to
tonight's Austrian official communica
tion. The attack here has been large
ly assisted by Austrian warships nad
.the guns of the Cattaro forts. In ad
dition, the (Montenegrins say the Aus
trians made abundant use of asphyxi
ating gas contrivances. A battle is
raging on the whole of the northern
and eastern frontiers of Montenegro.
On the east the Montenegrins have
been compelled to evacuate Berane.
' - Situation at Mesopotamia,
f For the 'British public the latest
statement . regarding the situation in
"Mesopotamia, will not entirely relieve
the anxiety. 4 , . . ... . .
The Brltlsn' General ' Aylmer's col
umn, which is'advancing to the relief
of Kutel-Amara, . has met and ' re
pulsed a strong Turkish force; but its
present position is by no means satis
factory, , for It , finds In front of it : a
Turkish ,.. army ' greatly - superior -- in
numbers. Therefore, it s evident that
a successful -Junction of the two Brit
ish forces,, although they are only 20
miles apart, may. - prove a difficult
matter. ' ,
" Cold Weather on Russian Front.
- There have been no fresh d&velop
ments on the Russian front, where the
cold ' weather -- again has set in, the
thermometer at -some points touching
20 degrees : below eero. Although for
the moment the Russians have ceased
their attack upon -the Austro -German
lines from the Prlpet river to the
Beasarabian frontier, information from
German sources is that they have not
HAY OPPOSED TO A L
CONTINENTAL ARMY.
Chairman of House Military Commit
tee Disapproves Administration Plan.
Washington, Jan, 11. The first
definite information of what a troublad
legislative sea the administration's
plans for strengthening the army have
been launched upon came today when
Chairman' Hay of the house military
committee told President Wilson he
disapproved the . fundamental sugges
gestion of the programme, the organ
ization of- a continental army of 400,
000 federal volunteers.
- The president's reception of this ex
pression was not -disclosed. Secretary
Garrison, who framed the administra
tion's scheme, said later he had no
knowledge of what had transpired at
the White House and would not com
ment" ori Mr. Hay's statement. He in
dicated, however, that the attitude of
Representative Hay before, whose
committee hearings on the army bill
will be resumed tomorrow, would not
alter the war department's insistence
on its plan, in substance at lease. In
following the president's lead in bis
annual address to congress, Mr. Gar
rison has Insisted that the matter was
one to be settled on a non-partisan
basis.
OPPOSITION TO COMPULSION
BILL FA8T DWINDLING.
Irish Nationalists Have Ceased to An
' i - tagoniz It ';",;'.
London, Jan. 11, 9.47 p. m. Opposi
tion to- the government's compulsion
bill . dwindled to a meagre handful in
parliament, today, and predictions in
the lobby of the house of commons
tonight were that the vote on the sec
ond reading tomorrow would find little
more than 10 or 80 In opposition, as
contrasted -with 106 on the first read
ing. - ..---.;. v
; The Irish ' nationalists today an
nounced abandonment of their opposi
tion in view of the fact that the bill
loes not apply to Ireland. John Red
mond, the veteran home rule leader,
R7ho made this announcement, shared
the most prominent position in the
ay's debate with his old enemy. Sir
Edward Oarsoiw who in a fiery speech
pleaded that Ireland ought to be In
cluded Is the bill. Sir Edward rose to
tpeak as soon as Mr. Redmond ceased.
NOTE REGARDING MAIlV .
i AT BRITISH FOREIGN OFFICE
Was Delivered by Ambassador Page
"Text - Withheld .For Simultaneons
Publication.
Washington, Jan. 11. Ambassador
Page- at London ; todays advised the
Itate department that he had delivered
ta the British foreign office the Amer
ican note regarding the detention and
Censoring by ' the British authorities
tf mall from -the United States - to
European neutral countries. The text
tf - the communication probably will
lot be given out until arrangements
kave been made for its publication
(Lmultaneously In this country and
reat, Britain. .
E
5 p
km
A
given up the venture, but are merely
reorganizing their forces for another
formidable assault. "'....
Russians Fortifying Positions. -The
Russians are reported as fortifying-
the positions recently won by
them, and in this way their front has
been gradually extended until they
occupy about 34 miles of the east bank
of the middle reaches of the Stripa
river, a position which, is is deemed
here, is secure, against recapture by
the Austro-Germans.
Interest in Chamntinnii Ra!an.
! As far as the western front is con
cerned, the center of interest is still
in the Champagne region. According
to French accounts there was clearly
nothing casual or ordinary about the
big German attack which the French
claimed they successfully stopped. The
French lines here make a tempting
salient, but the position evidently has
been made correspondingly strong.
Paris claims that the French by vig
orous, counter-attacks expelled - the
Germans from all except a small sec
tion of the trenches which they had
won in Champagne. - - ,
.. Compulsion Bill iprisis Over. -
? The domestic crisis-over the govern
ment's compulsion bill ' has become
much leas tense and it is now freely
predicted that the government and the
labor -party: may again Jbe ,placedy,on
friendly" terms and', that" the (expected
break in the coalition ministry may be
prevented. "-John-Redmond announced
in parliament today that the national
ists would not further oppose the mili
tary service bill.
.The resignations of Arthur Hender
son, president of the board of educa
tion, and his two ' labor colleagues
from the ministerial councils' have not
yet been accepted, and at the confer
ence at which the representatives of
labor will hold with Premier Asquith
tomorrow some agreement may be
reached by which they will be retain
ed in the government. .
SPEAKERS FOR THE
WOMAN'S PEACE PARTY
Address Senate and House Committees
on Foreign Relations.
Washington. Jan. .11. Speakers for
the Woman's Peace party, headed by
Miss Jane Addams of Chicago, pleaded
with the senate and house committees
on foreign relations today to enlist the
strength of the United States to help
end the European power.
Miss Addams told the committees
all Europe was ready for peace, the
belligerent nations, most of all, if it
could be gained for them without sac
clfice of dignity and standing. Five
European neutrals Holland, Switzer
land, Norway, Sweden and Denmark
Kad assured her, she said, they would
participate in a peace conference of
neutral nations if called by the United
States and two of them promised to
call such a conference if assured that
the United States would participate.
Besides Miss Addams, Miss Sophro
nisba Breckenridge of Chicago Mrs.
Crystal -Eastman Benedict, Miss Lucia
Ames Mead and Miss Zona Gale ad
dressed the house committee in the
morning and repeated their state
ments to the senators in the afternoon.
They urged adoption of a joint res
olution introduced by Representative
Curry which would empower the pres
ident to invite all nations to send del
egates to a convention to provide for
disarmament, .create an international
legislature, court, army and police.
Introduced by. Chairman Stone,
chairman of the committee, as the of
ficial peace disciple of the senate,
Senator John Sharp Williams told the
peace advocates that, as Instructive
as their addresses had been, they had
failed to convince him that the great
body of American women believed that
peace took precedence over all na
tional virtues. ,
MILK PRODUCERS OPPOSED
" TO NEW CARRYING RATES
On the Boston and Maine Railroad
Annual Meeting Held in Boston.
- Boston, Jan.- 11. The New England
Milk Producers' association, at Its an
nual meeting today, voted to contest
the proposed increase in milk carry
ing rates on the Boston and Maine
railroad. Richard Pattee, of Laconia,
N. H, secretary of the association, and
other shippers said that the milk sit
uation in New England at present was
the most serious the farmers had ever
faced. The proposed increase, - if al
lowed, would result in a greatly in
creased price for milk, they, asserted.
EXTREMELY COLD IN THE
NORTHWESTERN 8TATES
Temperature Down to Record Points
. for the Season. .
Minneapolis, Mlntt Jan. 11. Worth
western states and Canada shivered
today under a cold blast from the
north that sent temperatures down to
record points for the season in- many
sections. With a mark of 48 degrees
below zero, Battleford, Sask., held first
position in point, of low temperatures..
Cabled Paragraphs. V
. Eminent Italian Doetar Dead.
Rome, Jan. 10, IMS p. m. Dr. Outdo
Vaccelli, for many years professor of
medloine in th t University of Rom
and once minister of publlo Instruction
in the Italian cabinet, died today. He
was 84 years old.
Frenoh Parliament In Session.
Paris, Jan. 11. 8 p. m. The 1916
session of parliament opened this aft
ernoon In the chamber of deputies,
with. Baron' de Mackau, dean - of the
chamber, presiding, Paul Deschanel
was reelected president of the cham
ber. . ...
PLANNING A PAGEANT TO :-
BE HELD IN YALE BOWL
To Commemorate 200th Anniversary
of Coming of University to New
Haven. :. . ; ? -. ' v .'.',.
New Haven, Conn., Jan. 11. An
nouncement of the preliminary ar
rangements for a pageant in the Yale
Bowl on October 21st next to com
memorate the 200th anniversary of the
coming of Yale to New - Haven, was
made by Rev. Anson Phelps Stokes,
secretary of the university, 1 today.
Francis Hartman Markee, of London
and New York city and of the class
of 1906, has been appointed pageant
master. Mr. Markee wrote the masque
for the pageant at the University of
Oxford a few years ago and was as
sociated with Frank Lascelles in the
coronation pageant in London and he
also organized the South African pa
geant. The general committee in charge of
the affair will be: Secretary Stokes,
chairman Eli Whitney of New Haven,
Rev. Joseph Anderson of Woodmont
and Vance McCormick of Harrisburg,
Pa, from the corporation J. Benja
min Dimmick, of Scranton, from the
alumni advisory board Dean Jones
from the college: Director Chittenden
from the scientific school; Dean Park
er of the music department. Director
Kendall of the Fine Arts school and
Librarian J. C. Schwab.
On the evening of October 20, the
fiftieth anniversary, of - the 'founding
of the fine arts school will be observed
with an address by Professor J. P,
Weir, director-emeritus. On the next
morning there will be . exercises in
Woolsey hall, in the afternoon the
pageant and in the evening e public
banquet. On the 22nd there will be
special services in the city churches.
The detail programme, will call for
many special features. "In the pageant
school children, citizens and Yale men
will take part, depicting scenes from'
the early life of Yale.
ETRACTS FROM DOCUMENTS
SEIZED AT SALONIKI
Tell of Information Telegraphed the
y., ' Austrian Consul General.
. Paris.. Jan. 11, 4.55 - p.- m. Numer
ous extracts from .documents seized at
Salomki when the consuls of the Teu
tonic allies . were arrested there re
cently wet printed in this morning's
newspapers. Among the papers, ac
cording to the published statements,
were copies of dailr5 -reports telegraph
ed to Vienna by the Austrian consul
general giving the nuirfbers and de
scription of allied troops that were
landing at Se.loniki reports of spies
on the movements of allied forces into
the interior and records of payments
to these spies and to local newspa
pers. The system of espionage, the" ac
count states, was also . extended to
Greece and among the published pa
pers there are what purport to be
copfes of reports made by agents at
Greek military centers and by Fort
functionaries. "A good friend of Ge
many can be trusted," is a sentence
printed as being taken from one of the
reports made regarding a certain pre
fect, while a certain officer was classed
as "doubtful."
GERMANY'S STRINGENT
PASSPORT REQUIREMENTS
Americans Must Produce Birth Certi
ficates or Naturalization Papers. "
Washington, Jan. 11. Germany's
new passport requirements, Count
Von Bernstorff today informed the
state department, provide that Amer
icans must produce their birth certi
ficates or naturalization papers in ap
plying for a vise of their passports by
German agents. Passports of natural
ized citizens whose native countries
are at war with Germany and women
who before marriage were citizens of
such countries, it was said, would be
vised only upon special permission of
the German government.
German officials will vise passports.
Count Von Bernstorff said, for travel
to Germany only when such trips are
unobjectionable and necessary and the
business contemplated cannot well be
consummated by correspondence.
Passports for enemy country in pos
session of German troops will not be
granted:
APPLES MORE PLENTIFUL
. THAN A YEAR AGO
Supply 10 Per Cent. Greater 3,801,000
, Barrels, 3,049,000 Boxes. .
. Washington, Jan. 11. The country's
store of apples on January 11 was
about ten per cent larger than it was
a year ago. A statement issued today
oy me department or agriculture said
that this was true. desDlte the fact
that the supply decreased 12 per cent,
during December. The figures show
tnat s.vui.uuu barrels ana 3.049.000 box
es of apples comprised the country's
supply tne nrst or the v year. , y . .
, OBITUARY.
Mrs. Mary Slmms.
- Paris. Kentucky. Jan. 11. Mm. Tviiov
Simms, widow of W. W. Simms, a
member of the Confederate congress
ana reputea to De Kentucky's richest
woman, died here today. She was 73
years or age ana was known throuerh
out the south for her philanthropic
worn. - -
George L. Lyon.
Albuquerque, N. M Jan. 11. George
xj. jjyon, 34, oi JLTurnam. w. c una
teur champion trap shooter, died here
today of tuberculosis. He had been
a resident of the city five weeks and
was but recently elevated to the thirty-third
degree In Masonry. Lyon was
twice amateur champion trap shooter
of the United States and four years
ago was a member of the American
team at the Olympic games in Stock
holm. ' . ' . ' , -.. , -
Embargo on Jamaican Logwood Lifted
Washington, . Jan. 11. -American
Consul Monaghan at Kingston, cabled
the state department todal that the
British government had 'lifted its em
bargo on Jamaican logwood extract
exports. No details were given.'
Kill 16 Americans
8TRIPPED AND LINED UP, FOR
'j- , EXECUTION.
ONE MADE HIS ESCAPE
Was On the End of the Line Broke
, Away ,, and ;, Fled Into .. tha Desert
Until Ha Could No Longer Hear the
Whistle of BuUets.
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 11. Seventeen
persons, all thought to be Americans,
returning fro ml Chihuahua City to
reopen mines at Cusihuirlachio, Chi
huahua, - were taken from a Mexican
Northwestern train yesterday by ban
dits, stripped and lined up along the
track for execution, according to a
message received here today from
Thomas M. Holmes, one of the sev
enteen, who made his escape.
Whether the execution, of the re
maining 18 Americans was carried out
is not known definitely here but H is
feared all weer killed. -
It is supposed the bandits belonged
to-tho forces -of General Jose Rodri
guez, a Villa supporter known to be
operating In Chihuahua against the de
facto government.
- Censorship of Despatches.
. Almost immediately after the first
news of the raid was received a cen
sorship was imposed on the wires be
tween Juarez and Chihuahua City by
the Carranza officials. This action
was taken ,it was said, "until the story
could be verified from official Mexican
sources."
How One Man Escaped.
According to the brief messages re
ceived here, the train bearing . the
Americans was stopped 4y the bandits
at Kilometer, about fifty miles west
of Chihuahua City. The mining men
were taken from the train, robbed.
stripped ' naked and lined up along
the cars for execution. Holmes, it
is sali. was on the extreme end of
the line. As -the firing squad detail
ed by the bandit leader took position,
it is said. Holmes broke away and fled
Into the desert for his life. With feet
and body cut arid bleeding from stones
and sharp cactus, he ran without look
ing back until he no longer heard
the whistle of bullets pass him or the
sound of firing.
He succeeded in reaching friendly
Mexicans, it is reported and was aid
ed back to Chihuahua City.
, Consternation at El Paso.
News of the raid caused consterna
tion here as many of the families - of
the men supposes . to . Jiave been -qn
board-- the raided train -reside here.
A verified list of American, mining
men In Chihuahua was prepared here
rrom records or Mexican passports is
sued. The list : contained 18 names
and as Holmes' message - places the
number taken from the train as 17, it
is presumed one remained in Chihua
hua. . .
NO OFFICIAL ADVICES
AT STATE DEPARTMENT
Authorities Hoping That Report Will
. Prove Erronoeus.
. .
Washington, Jan. 11.- Reports from
El Paso that sixteen Americans were
killed west of Chihuahua by Villa ban
dits will, if confirmed, result in urgent !
representations by the United States
to Carranza to increase his efforts to
capture Villa or destroy his forces.
No official advices regarding the affair
had been received at the state de
partment tonight and officials were
hopeful that the report received in
El Paso by the American Smelting
and Refining company might prove
erroneous.
' After it became evident that Villa
did not intend to cross the Interna
tional boundary line into the United
States and stop fighting when the
greater part of his army went over
to Carranza, General Obregon assured
agents of the American government
that troops would be dispatched at
once to hunt him down. Most of the
troops sent after Vilila, however, have
been used since in garrisoning towns
along the northwestern railroad.
No action will be - taken - by the
United States In the case of the kill
ing of Peter Keane In Chihuahua by
General Medinvieta. Secretary Lan
sing said today that since Keane was
a British subject it appeared proper
that any representations that . were
made should be by Great Britain,
which has recognized the de facto
Mexican government. , - ;
Medinavleta formerly was one of
Villa's generals, but later was reported
to have surrendered with his forces to
Carranza.
Currency on the Train.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 11. The" train
on which the Americans were travel
ing from Chihuahua City to Cusihuiri
achlc, Chihuahua, carried thousands of
dollars in currency and a large quan
tity of supplies sent by the American
Smelting and Refining company to its
mines. -
CONFERENCE IN NEW YORK "
i ON DYE8TUFFS SHORTAGE
Representatives of Industrie Affected
Appoint Committee to Confer with
President.
New York. Jan. It. Following a
conference here of representatives of
organizations and industries affected
by the dyeatuffs shortage resulting
from the European war, David
Kirschbaum, president' of the National
Association of Clothiers, today an
nounced the appointment of a com
mittee to confer with President Wil
son, Secretary of State Lansing, the
German .ambassador and other officials
in Washington. Tho committee will
endeavor to have . the government re
open negotiations ' with Germany for
the shipment of dyestuffs to this coun.
try as well -as seek an arrangement
with Great Britain whereby some com
modity may be shipped .,- from , the
United States Into . Germany . in ex
change for dyes.. - i ... -';
While in Washington,' the commit
tee will appear before, the ways and
means committee of the house of rep
resentatives, it was said and urge the
passage of a bill introduced by Con
gressman Hill, of Connecticut, for the
protection of the dye manufacturing
industry 'so that 'll-may be built up
in this country without fear of foreign
encroachment after: the European war.
Progressives Stick
to Old Principles
CONVENTION SAME -TIMS AND
PLACE A8 REPUBLICAN. !
IN . CHICAGO, JUNE 7
In Hope That Both May Agree on the
Same Candidate for President To
Nominate a National Ticket in Any
Event Roosevelt 8ends Letter.
" Chicago, Jan. 11. The progressive
party will hold its national convention
June 7 in Chicago, concurrently with
the national convention of the repub
lican party in the hope that both may
agree on the same candidate for pres
ident. .
This action was decided upon to
day by the national committee of the
progressive party. - , ' , -,
Forty-seven States Represented.
Forty-seven of the forty-eight states
were represented at the meeting. Be
fore adjourning the committee adopt
ed a declaration of principles in which
the administration of President Wilson
was criticised for - its alleged failure
to deal with national honor and in
dustrial welfare and the progressive
party went on . record as favoring a
complete preparedness programme con
sisting of military armament as well
as a mobilization of all the country's
resources with a view of the unifica
tion of American citizenship.
A message was read from Theodore
Roosevelt urging the necessity of ade
quate preparedness which was enthu
siastically applauded. ' -
To Nominate a National . Ticket.
Progressive leaders . declared that
there would be no amalgamation with
the republican party even in the event
of both parties choosing the same
presidential candidate. - The progres
sive party plans to nominate a nation
al ticket at its convention in June. ,
. Roosevelt Not Essential. -Many
of the party leaders declared
that if the republicans will nominate
Roosevelt. or any other man who is
regarded as unobjectionable and will
incorporate in its platform the Calient
features of the progressive principles,
both parties will unite on the same
candidates next June. ' ..
In discussing the declaration' of
principles, George, W. Perkins, of New
York, said:
No Bluff or Threat.
" "The declaration Issued by the na
tional committee means just what it
says. -; It was - prepared with erreat
care. There , is nothing " of bluff or
threat -In- it." ft Is honest 'and "Talr
statement of the situation, f
"The men here today, representing
4? of the 48 states in the union, real
ized that our country is facing a crisis
and to the best of Our ability and
with a spirit' of placing the needs of
our country beyond the interests of
our party,- we have tried to do our full
share toward helping outline a pro
gramme that we believe will go very
far toward meeting the views of a
majority of right-thinking people.
Hoping for Agreement.
"We are all hoping that both the
progressive and the republican parties
will agree on a candidate and it neces
sarily will not have to be Colonel
Roosevelt. We are not thinking of
the name of the candidate just now.
The time for the. convention is sev
eral months away and in these days
(Continued on Page Six)
BARNES NOT DELEGATE TO
REPUBLICAN NAT. CONVENTION
Because of Possibility of Roosevelt
ii i Candidate for Nomination. .
Albany, N. Y, Jan. 11. William
Barnes, of Albany, former chairman
of the republican state committee, said
tonight that he would not go to the
republican national convention as a
delegate-at-large because he believed
it would be injudicious in view of the
possibility of Theodore Roosevelt as
a candidate for the presidential nom
ination. This determination, he com
municated to Frederick C. Tanner,
chairman of the state committee, in
a letter announcing that the republi
can congressional committee for the
28th district at a meeting today se
lected E. J. Staley and State Senator
Henry M. Sage of this cjty as the
district delegates to be voted for at
the primary election, April 4th. In
this connection, Mr. Barnes wrote:
"Lest this action should lead to the
infor jnee that the republican state
convention will suggest me as one of
the four delegates -at-large, I am writ
ing to advise you of my determina
tion not to go to the convention as
a delegate. ,
"Powerful influences are at work
to bring about tho nomination of Mr.
Roosevelt. That this should be pre
vented, I am confident is the opinion
of all sane men and women. If we are
to prepare for defense, as Mr. Roose
velt himself properly urges, it would
be irrational to place the power thus
created in the hands of one who would
itch to use it.
"In view of the contention which
I foresee will come before the national
convention over the Roosevelt candl
dacy, it would be injudicious for me
to be a delegate. ,The New York del
egation, which I assume will be a
unit ' against Mr. Roosevelt's peren
nial ambitions, should not be open to
the charge that any personal element
was Involved in its aotion.
; "I shall be at Chicago as a mem
ber of the national committee from
this - state to perform such duties aa
properly devolve upon me."
SPECIAL ELECTION'
, FOR CHIEF SURGEON
To Fill Vacanoy Caused by Death of
, Dr. Joseph , H. Townsend. -
; Hartford, Conn., Jan. 11. Arjutant
General George M. Cole of the Con
necticut National Guard announced
today that . a special election- will be
held to . fill the vacancy of chief sur-.
geon,- caused , by the recent" death' of
Dr. Joseph H.. Townsend of New Ha
ven. Ballots will be counted' at Hart
ford on January ,20. - J - ;
1 ';''. Movements, of Steamships. ,
New York, Jan. 11. Arrived, steam
er Orduna, Liverpool,- Sailed, steam
er San Guerlielmo, Naples. . ; - j .i -Genoa,
Jan. 8. .Arrived, steamer
Caserta, New York. ,
Condensed Telegrams i
An elevator to hold 1.000.000 bushels
of grain -will bo erected at. Fort Will
iam, Ont, t i
On . billion and a - Quarter-feet of
lumber was logged In British Columbia
for tho year 1916. , . -
The anohor liner Cameronia arrived
in New York from Glasgow and Liver
pool after a stormy voyage. - -
Japan was 'officially Informed that
Yuan Shi Kai will be crowned Emper
or of China early in February.
Adit. Gen. 8totesbury declared 'that
no professional prize fights will be
held in New York State armories.
Frank H. Dodd,' head of the publish
ing firm of Dodd, Mead oV Co- died
in New .York. He was 71 years old. .
Nicaraguan customs receipts during
October' amounted to $63,800, ' com
pared with $77,998 for the same month
in 1914. , ' '
Hundreds of strikers at the plant
of -the- Youngstown- Sheet & Ube Co.,
at East Youngstown, Ohio, returned
to work. : ' -
Two engineers and a fireman were
killed in a head-on collision or Can
adian Pacific Railway trains at Nepi
gon, Ont,
Exports of sugar from the . Philip
pine Islands during -1916 amounted to
zus.uou tons, a comparea witn zsa,
000 tons in 1914. .
The Coast Guard cutter Seneca has
nhflndnnnl Vi Bpnnh fnr thu dr-Mk
steamer Thessaloniki. The steamer, is
believed to have sunk.
-No member of the Greek -Royal
family has yet visited or written to
King Peter of Serbia who is at Sal-
onica, on Greek soil.
'A wage increase of 10 per cent, to
all "employes exce,pt those working on
salary and tonnage was announced by
the Cambria Steel Co.
There was a great rejoicing in Con
stantinople over the abandonment of
the British attack, prayers being re
cited in all the Mosques. ,
' Mors 'than 6,000 employes of the
Pennsylvania Steel Co.. at Steelton,
Pa, will receive an increase in wages
of 10 per cent, on Feb. 1.
' About 200 South and Central Amer
ican delegates to the Pan-American
Scientific Congress, left Washington
on a tour - of eastern cities.
Three hundred employes of the Car
negie Steel Co., at Farrel, Pa., walked
out, demanding a nincrease in wages
from 19 to 25 cents per hour. -
The, funeral of Charles G. -Knapp,
treasurer of the New York Times,- and
former publisher of the StLouip "Re
public," was held in St. LouiB.
Articles of ' incorporation wsrr filed
at. Ottawa, Canada, by the .Canada
Nitro Products, "Ltd, capital. $5,000,
000, to manufacture war munitions. -
Experiments : in growing hemp for
cordage purposes will be undertaken
in the western . Canadian provinces
with seed imported from Kentucky.
Emperor William has so far re
covered from the recent operation on
his throat that he will resume work
late this month, or early in February.
A dispatch . from : Oakland, CaL,
states that the Standard Shipbuilding
Corporation will invest $25,000,000 in
a shipbuilding plant to be established
there. -
Great Britain - and her allies have
given permission to the- American Red
Cross to ship its accumulation of hos
pital supplies meant for German hos
pitals.. .
' A report from Fall River, Mass,
states that the Cotton Manufacturers'
Association is opposed to the 10 per
cent, wage increase asked by the
unions.
At tho request of Solicitor General
Davis the Supreme Court set the gov
ernment case against the Reading
Coal combination for argument on
April 3, next.
Four persons were seriously injured
when ten pounds of flashlight powder
exploded and wrecked the house of
Charles Mills, a photographer, at Had
donfield, N. J.
Luther Jordan, widely known In
lumber manufacturing circles for the
last 35 years ,ided at bis. home at St,
John,- N. B. He was a native of
Mariavllle, Me.
About 700 men who went oh strike
at the. Jersey City, N. J, plant of the
Crucible Steel Co., returned to work,
the management promising to consider
their demands.
Edward A. Bowers of New Haven,
has been appointed by Gov. Holconjb
a delegate to the meeting of the
American Forestry association in Bos
ton, January 17 and 18.
A delegation of Baltimore business
men invited President - Wilson to ad
dress the Baltimore Merchants & Man.
ufacturers Association at its annual
banquet on January 27. -
Porter Charlton, tho American who
was recently released ' from - prison
after serving a brief term for killing
his wife,, will leave Naples for -New
York today aboard the steamer Amer
ica. . ' : v '
Gov. Holoomb has appointed B. C
Wilson of Southington a delegate from
this ' state to the national conference
of immigration and Americanization
to be held -in Philadelphia, January
19 and 20. , , : ' i - ; -(
Jewelry valued at 1 26,000, belonging
to - Lleut.-Commander . -William P.
Cronan, U.- S. N4 formerly of New
Haven. ., was stolen from a trunk on
a train between Overbrook, Pa, and
San Francisco. ' ; - "--
According - to an offtoial estimate
made yesterday, -the value of .prperty
in Germany owned , by subjects of
Great . Britain Is approximately 72
000,000. , The value of German-owned
property in Great Britain was given
aa ; 105,000,000. 4 , v- i . . . '-,-;,,.
,The right of tho United States to
revoke a. permit was upheld in a de
cision by Judge R. E. Lewis, of the
federal district court, at Denver. Col,
ordering the Colorado Power Company
to pay a -monthly 'rental of $100 for
government land' in Garfield County,
Col, on which its power plant Is lo
cated. .: .' ,
MOHIOTAl PROSECUTION OUTLIHEL
Prepared tcr Shovv That Mrs. F.Tohr incited the
' K : K. -Nebroes to-SIay Her Husband. ;
DESCRIBED AS A DESPERATE; JEALOUS WODMI
Was Worried By . the' Divorce i Suit That Was Pending and
Feared That Dr. Mohr Was Going to Put All His Money
' in the Name of Miss Emily G. Burger, His Secretary-
Prosecutor Asserted That Evidence Would Be Presented
to Show That the Doctor Was to Have Been Killed Three
Nights Before . the Date of. the Murder Chauffeur
Healis Will Be a Witness For the State Jury Has
Vie wed the . Scene of the Crime.
Providence, R. I.,' Jan. 11. An out-'
line of the facts the state expects to !
prove in the trial of Mrs. Elizabeth F. '
Mohr and two negroes, Cevil V. Brown
and Henry H. Spellman, charged with
the murder of Dr. C. Franklin Mohr,
the woman's husband, was presented
to the Jury today. The testimony of
one witness, -Medical Examiner C. H.
Griffin, was also heard.
To Show Negroes, Were Incited.
Abbott ' Phillips, assistant attorney
general, in recounting the circum
stances of the- death of Dr. Mohr. de
clared that the prosecution was pre
pared to show that Mrs. Mohr Incited
the negroes to slay her husband be
cause she was "worried" by the divorce
suit that was pending and also feared
that Dr. Mohr was going to put ail his
money in the name of Miss' Emily G.
Burger, his secretary. ' ' . -
Powerful Motives for Mrs.,. Mohr.
"There were several strong and
powerful motives for Mrs. Mohr to
want - her husband ' killed," said -Mr.
Phillips. "She was a desperate woman
and we will show you that she was ex
tremely jealous of - Miss Burger."
Story of the Attack.
Mr. Phillips said that Dr. Mohr was
attacked on Aug. 31, 1S15, while in an
automobile on his way from this city
to his Newport residence, accompanied
by Miss Burger; that the negro chauf
feur, George W. - Healis, stopped, the
car while passing through a stretch of
woods near Barring ton and that the
doctor; and Miss Burger were shot
from ambush. .- The chauffeur- picked
Mi- Bmwj-Wtrfterthevshootlirg,
Mr. Phillips "said, and carried her to
the side of the road.-' , She recovered
from- -her wounds, but Dr.. Mohr 'died
the next, morning at the hospital. -
Healis Will Be Witness for State.-
"Healis will be a - witness : for the
state," went on Mr. Phillips. "He
stopped the car on the darkest spot in
the road. We will show you . that
Brown and Healis had been there pre
viously and had arranged things by
putting a branch of a tree at the side
of the road so that Healis would know
where Brown and Spellman were .to
hide for the attack. .,
- "Dr. Mohr and his Wife separated in
NEW EMBARGO NOTICE
' BY. NEW HAVEN ROAD.
Livestock. Perishables, Foodstuffs and
Coal Are Not Included.
i Boston, Jan. 11. The New ; York,
New Haven and Hartford railroad and
the-Central New England railway is
sued today to connectinglines an em
bargo notice -which becomes effective
Jan. 13 and supersedes all notices pre
viously issued. The embargo applies
to all carload and less than carload
freight, originating -west 'of the Hud
son river and north of the internation
al boundary line, destined to all points
on or by wav of the two roads affect
ed, except livestock, perishables, .food
stuffs for human consumption, feed for
livestock, coal,' coke and petrojeum
products in tank cars. --
The notice alos applies to business
from west of the Hudson river moving
in connection with the New England
Steamship company to points on the
New Haven and business coming by
way of coastwise steamship lines. -
SENATOR LIPPITT OPPOSES '
THE PHILIPPINE BILL
Oecmrss Natives Are Not Fully Cap
able of Self-Government. . "
Washington, Jan. 11. Senator Lip
pitt of Rhode Island, a minority mem
ber of the Philippine committee, spoke
In the senate today against the Phil
ippine self-government extension bill.
He declared that democrats wanted to
get rid -of the Philippines, but that the
republican party realized the respon
sibility of the nation for the Islanders,
which must be retained until they
were fully capable of self-government.
A vote on the bill may be reached to
morrow. '.-.;. - . - ' -
CLAIMED TO HAVE BROUGHT ,
ABOUT 20,000 MARRIAGES
Fritz Padzius, Editor 'of Matrimonial
' Nsws, Dead In Nsw York. -
New York, Jan. 11. Fritz Podzius,
widely ' known as - - "Cupid - Podsius,"
editor of the Matrimonial , News, who
claimed , to hate brought? about - the
marriages of 20,000 couples, died here
today. , - v- :
; Podzius ,. published . bis. matrimonial
newspaper In this city, for . the last
eight years and also issued a Berlin,
copy called the; Heirats Zeitung. .He
was a bachelor and-' lived as a recluse,
sussisting mainly, on. apples -and -tea.
i -7- : OBITUARY. , i' :
. t ! : .
: ,- Oliver 8. Brainard.' ' 1 - :
vMIddletowii,'' Conn. Jan.';'ll.T-511ver
S. Brainard. j78 years old, a veteran of
the Civil war-died at -the local hospital
last night. He served In Co. G. First
Connecticut- Heavy Artillery in tha
Civil war 'ana-; was noted as having
been the first man ta pull the .lan
yard on the "Petersburgh Express," a
famous mortar,- now -on- the Capitol
grounds in Hartford. ; . He - was given
a. medal by- congress for - bravery In
action and later was awarded the In
signia 'of the Legion or Honor by the
French governraent for his servlco in
the French Coljnial wars. ... .
March of 1914 and theitaiter we wIE
snow you," said Mr. Phillips, 'Mra
Mohr interviewed the negroes from
time to time and also talked with the
doctor's office girl. Miss Florence
Ormsby, in her efforts to find out who '
the doctor went around with, especial
ly to see if he was with Miss Burger."
Was to Have Been Killed Three Nights
Before.
The prosecutor asserted that evi
dence would be presented to show that
the doctor was to have been killed
three nights before the date of the
murder, but that Halis, who has now
turned stat'es evidence, found that in
stead of having Miss Burger in the
machine with the doctor that night.- h
bad a (Miss Wilson and Miss Onmby,
and therefore he put on all speed when
he came to the place where the other
negroes were lying in ambush. ...
Mrs. Mohr Upbraided Healis.
"Mrs. Mohr, we will show you," con
tinued Mr. Phillips, "sent for Healis
and upbraided him for not stopping
the car on that night; told him her
divorce petition was coming up and
that the murder had to be pulled off
without delay."
Testimony of Medical Examiner.
The testimony of Dr. Clifford H.
Griffin, the medical examiner, who per.
formed -an autopsy on the body of Dr.
Mohr, was designed. hrow light on
the question of how ne;. the assassins
food and what position they were in
relative-to the car. Dr. Griffin said
that the revolver must have been held
eelow-tner-ievel oh which Dr. Mohr
was. and pointed upwards In order to
have the bullets take the course shown
by the autopsy. He approximated the
distance--the revolver- was held from
the doctor's head as one or two feet,
judging from the burned edges of the
wounds.
Jury Viewed Scene of Crime.
The early part of the day was spent
by the Jury in viewing the scene of
the crime.
, August D. Mohr and Mrs. Ella Ho
gan of McEwensvllle, Pa., Dr. Mohrs
brother and sister, arrived here today
and it was announced that they would
testify for the defense. ....
DECISION RESERVED IN
SILVER STRIKERS' CASE.
Judge Webb to Give It Due and Care
ful Consideration.
New Haven, Conn, Jan. 11. Deci
sion by Judge James H. Webb on the
petition of the International Silver
company for an injunction to run
against its former employes, certain
labor organizations and individuals to
restrain them from interference with
the company's business and present
employes,! was reserved this afternoon
upon the conclusion of the arguments.
The court said It would give due and
careful consideration not only to tho
evidence but to the many authorities
cited by counsel for both sides.
A. I. DUPONT. DEPOSED AS VICE
PRESIDENT AND MANAGER '
Of ths Dupont Powder Company
Trouble Over ' Transfer of Securi
ties. ' -. . '..'-.
Wilmington, Deli Jan. 11. The fight
among the stockholders of the Dupont
Powder .company over the transfer of t
the securities of the corporation, for- .
merly owned by T. Coleman Dupont,
which are valued at about $6,000,000,
reached an interesting stage today
when official announcement was made
that Alfred I. Dupont had been de-
posed as vice president, and general
manager of the company by the di- :
rectors at a meeting yesterday.
The announcement of the action of
the directors followed closely the fll- .
Ing in the United States district court
here yesterday, of a petition .by Al
fred' f. Dupont asking permission to
become a party to the suit filed by
Philip F. Dupont against Pierre S. ..
Dupont, president of the company, '
certain directors and others Interested s
In the concern. It came as a surprise
to -those not having inside information
of the trouble among the officers and j
stockholders . of the powder company.!
REVOLUTIONARY OUTBREAK
- IN YUNNAN, CHINA, CHECKED
Rebois Defeated by Government Troops ,-
. in Several Engagements.
' New ""York, v Jan. 11. A cablegram ! .
received from Peking today by the Far
Eastern- bureau says that the revolu- t
tionary outbreak in the province of
Yunnan,- China, has received a severe
check at the hands of ' government
troops, which have defeated the reb
els in several engagements and cap
tured positions which they had occu
pied. - It is said the rebels are now
split Into several parties, none of them
strong and. -that the governor of
Kwang-Si province is cooperating
with the government troops of Yun
nan In .the campaign against them..
i Parcel Post Seizure at Kirkwall.
London, Jan. 11, 10.30 p. m. A des
patch to Reuter's Telegram . company
from Bergen says that 1S5 baps of
parcel post were seized at Kirkwall on
board the Norwesian steamer l.yr -'".
fjord, which sailed from New lor!; ;
December 24 for iBergen.
