MAILS :'-.Hv-
Preo 9n Fran I
. China. Jan. 13.
For San Franclscsr
Great Northern. Jan. IS.
From Vancouver:
Niagara, Jan. 26.
For Vancouvar: -Hakura.
Feb. 4.
I'venlng nulletln. Est- 1882. No. 6369
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIII.- No. 7410
14 PAGES --HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, WEDNESDAY, JANUAUV 12, l'Ua.-U PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTO
UE M WASMMGTOBJ
;, MAILS I V - , : A rV-v:!v:.YCjVl. CT ',.'v -.r5Tf J W -7 T3 : n ft
jJdjj: IPIuIlP' 1E1L w-lT jlyl JJitPjlt Edition
mm
V)
A
RESOLUTIONS! HOUSE AMD
SEMTEDEMp ACTI0N;TE1(AS
CITIZENS OWIZE PROTEST
SENATOR SHERMAN INTRODUCES MEASURE LOOKING
TOWARD INTERVENTION SENATOR THOMAS CHARGES
- RIVAL OIL INTERESTS RESPONSIBLE n FOR REVOLU
TION SOLE SURVIVOR OF AMERICAN PARTY TELLS OF
SLAUGHTER v;::. r ; V-V;
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless.
r WASHINGTON 1). C Jan. 12. Outrages by Mexicans upon
American citizens, reaching a climax in the slaughtering of 17 Amer
icans in Chihuahua, has brought the situation to the boiling-point to
day. The Mexican problem overshadows everything else, even the
critical European war events.
Congressman L. C. Dyer of Missouri introduced in the house this
afternoon a resolution asking the president to inform Congress of
hii belief that the time has arrived to abandon the 4 4 watchful wait
ing'' nolicv.
. In the senate, Senator Thomas of Colorado charged that the
Standard Oil Company and the Pearson Oil .Syndicate, by their rival
efforts to obtain an oil monopoly in Mexico, are responsible for the
revolution. ., . ' ,
" EL PASO, Texas, Jan. 12. A committee of citizens was organ
ized here today to protest against the policy of the United States in
Mexico,- and against the apparent failure of the protection of Ameri
cans traveling under guarantee of safety from their government and
the Mexican government. : ;
" 4 EL PASO, Texas, Jan. 12. Thomas Holmes, the only survivor
of the party of Americans slaughtered by the Villistas, arrived here
today. He said that the Americans were taken from the train when
it was stopped, lined up, disrobed and shot down. The gang of
bandits numbered 200. - ;
LANSING. BY TELEGRAPH ,
SAYS BANDITS MUST BE
PUNISHED FORMURDERS
4 Associated Press by Federal Wireless
. WASHINGTON, D. O, Jan. 12.
Stirred by the new yesterday
that soldiers pf .Gen. - Villa had
taken from- : train 17 Aracri
can mining men, then stripped
them and" shot thera to death,
members of Congress arc de
manding prompt action by- the
United States ta protect the lives
and property of United States
citizens in Mexico.
Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman
of Illinois jtoday introduced in the
upper house a resolution propos
ing .forcible intervention if neces
sary in Mexico by the United
States in conjunction with the six
pan-American ' countries which
joined in recognizing Carranza as
president. This intervention, un
der, the plan proposed by Senator
Sherman, is) to be made unless
Carranza complies at once with
the demand to protect the lives
and property of foreigners resid
ing peacefully in Mexican terri
tory. : : .
f. The resolution was referred to
the committee on foreign rela
tions. 1 ' '-.'.-
Secretary of State Lansing to
day telegraphed to President Car
ranza demanding prompt punish
ment for the bandits who held up
the train south of Chihuahua and
executed seventeen Americans.
.The bodies of the victims, who
were mining men on their way
to their place of employment, are
being brought ta Juarez on a spe
cial train,, which has been delayed,
adding to the indignation of the
people. '.
Dr. Arredondo. the Mexican
ambassador at Washington ap
pointed by Carranza, today con
firmed, the news of the executions,
having received advices from his
government.
Secretary Lansing issued a
statement today in which he said
that every precaution has" been
taken to warn Americans in the
Chihuahua region and others
where guerilla warfare is in pro
gress, lie also declares that
every step will be taken to punish
the perpetrators of the crime.
What action will be taken de
pends upon developments.
m m ' .
A Jury In Circuit Judge Ashfords
court today returned a verdict of not
guiltr in the case of M. F. Costa, who
was charged with malicious Injury. It
vas alleged that Costa had Injured a
transit belonging to J. G. Morgan, a
surveyor.
FOR RENT
Furnished or , unfurnished, a
larga two-story house. Apply
408 Heretanla st, or phone
. 3220. .V;.: -
COL. ROBERTS TO
COffiTO HAWAII
Will Succeed Col. Walter H.
Chatfield, Commanding 2nd
Infantry at Fort Shatter
(Special Star-Bulletin Correspondence)
FORT SHAFTER, Jan. 11. rOrders
received today from the war depart
ment assign Col. Harris L. Roberts to
command the 2nd Infantry, relieving
Col. Walter H. Chatfield, who retires
for age on March 11.
Col. Roberts is ordered to take the
March transport from San Francisco
for Honolulu for his new command.
The colonel does not come to Sh after
as a stranger, for he is well known,
having been in the 2nd Infantry In
1904 as a captain. He is an officer
well known In the service, and has
many friends in Oabu. At present he
is on duty at Fort Leavenworth, Kan
sas.' " .r.
Col. Roberts was born in Washing
ton, D. C. in 1S5S, and graduated from
the United States Military Academy
in 1880, when he was assigned to the
4th Infantry as a second lieutenant
He transferred to the 19th Infantry
in 1881 and remained with that regi
ment until 1830, when he was pro
moted to first lieutenant of the 21st
Infantry, and again transferred to the
19th Infantry, where he remained un
til 1898 when he was made captain.
While a captain he was in the 2nd In
fantry from 1904 to 1905. Then he
was made major of the 26th Infantry
Col. Roberts received his lieutenant
colonelcy in the 22nd Infantry in 1911
and was made a colonel of Infantry in
1914.
HI. l. HARRIS, DIG
COMES TO HAWAII
Among the Great Northern arrivals
today from San Francisco and Los An
geles are Norman Wait Harris and
Mrs. Harris of Chicago and New York,
who are here on their first visit tq
Honolulu and the Islands.
Mr. Harris is one of the really Im
portant financiers of America, in the
class of George M. Reynolds, James
B. Forgan and other representative
Middle West bankers:'
Mr. Harris is a direct descendant of
the 39th generation of Charlemagne,
Frankish king and Roman emperor,
and his ancestry also includes a num
ber of famous men and women of an
cient days.
He aided In organizing the Union
Central Life Insurance Company,, and
organized in 1882 the banking house
of N. W. Harris & Company of Chica
go. New York and Boston. He is
president of the Harris Trust and Sav
ings Bank, Chicago, and is prominent
in other financial institutions. He
has been for many years a member
of the international committee of the
Y. M. C A. His philanthropies are
also extensive, -
CHICAGO DANKER,
WILDER LODGES
FORMAL PROTEST
HGOVEIOR
On Request He Files in Writing
With President and Lane
Objections taPinkham
MADE HIS STAND PLAIN
ONiVISIT TQ WASHINGTON
ReturrfFronr Capital With the
News Hawaiian Affairs Are
Closely Followed There
. Former Judge Arthur A. Wilder has
filed ii writing with President Wilson
and Secretary of the Interior Lane
his views on the present territorial ad
ministration, and these views include
emphatic criticism of some of Gov
ernor Pinkham s policies, particularly
in the matter of appointments.
Judge Wilder returned : from Wash
ington on the liner Great Northern to
day. Upon his return he gave out a
copy of an open letter he has written
to Governor. . Pinkham. brought forth,
by the governor's quoted statement a
few weeks ago that Wllder's reference
to the governor's health and intentions
was a figment of the imagination and
given publicity for ulterior purposes.
In this open letter he declares that
Congressman William Kent of Califor
nia is seeking a man to replace the
governor, and has in mind either Al
bert F. Judd or Superintendent of Pub
lic Wrorks Charles R. Forbes. He
also declares, that the president did
not want the governor to go to Wash
ington this winter to urge legislation,
and also asserts that the governor is
grooming Forbes, to succeed him.
Sees President and Mr. Lane.
While in Washington Wrilder had
talks both with the president and Sec
retary Lane, as well as several other
(Continued on page two)
OF GOING AFTER
Waldo G. Paine Outlines Meth
ods to Ad Club Men; F. G.
Bonfils of Denver Speaker
La3t year Spokane, which . has for
years been advertising-on a large
scale through the Chamber of Com
merce publicity committee, put on ex?
tra steam and spent tens of thousands
of dollars on a campaign to get East
erners bound for -San Francisco ; to
take the northwestern route to the
coast, "through the cool summer play
ground of North America," as one of
their catch-phrases had 1L
Today members of the Honolulu
Ad Club heard from; Waldo G. Paine,
chairman of Spokane's publicity com
mittee, and traffic manager of the
Spokane & Inland Railway, of the
broad guage manner in which the
northwestern city went after the tour
ist business., '
"Years ago they did not advertise
their towns and cities in a conscious
way." said Mr. Paine, who arrived this
morning on the Great Northern.
"They used to hold the time-honored
belief that cities, like Topsy, 'just
grew,' and that was all there was to
It- . - : : .
One Stagnates One Grows.
"Now we know mat two given
towns, or sections of territory with
eaual advantages 'as to location, cli
mate, natural resources and each with
eoual onnortunities in every funda
mental particular, may reach the part
ing of the ways, one to stagnate and
remain forever a village, or a section
wit ha dwindling population, the oth
er to march forward to greatness.
"I need not tell you the reason.
You all know what can bring such
things about It's men. There Is the
civic equation. If you will pardon my
coialns the expression, just as there
is the personal equation.
'The failure to advertise cities is
now just as much a thing of the past
ac J:, the stone aee only it iBn't so
far in the past Each one now adver
tises and does It consciously. What
are you men here today for? I shall
anwer bv Ravine that von are- here
to Join .with this Ad Club to work for
(Continaed ' oil pagq, thftVj'''
BRUNSWIG PROMISES TO
SEND 100 TOURISTS
The : Hawaii Promotion " Committee
ha8; received a letter from L. N.
Brunswig. Los Angeles representative
of the Chamber of Commerce of that
city, who visited Hawaii recently,
statlrig the results of his efforts
which will be continued will be to
send 100 Los Angeles people to Ha
waii to visit the Paradise of the Pa
cific. Mr. Brunswig states that this
will tend to develop and cement busi
ness relations between the two ports.
TOURISTSTOLD
MAINLAND FEELS
WINTER'S GRIP;
DAMAGE SLIGHT
In Most Places Weather Bu
reau's Warnings Gave Time
For Precautions
CALIFORNIA ORANGE
MEN AVERTING FROST
Burning Smudges So Generally
That Smoke Overhangs
Valleys in Palls
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
LOS ANGELES. Cat. Jan. 12. With
a severe cold threatening the orange
groves in this vicinity, the growers
are resorting to smudges to avert the
frost, and the smoke balls from the
burning-pots are hanging over the vaU
leys. The orange men have been fore
warned and having made every prepa
ration, expect little damage. The
weather is colder than that of the dis
astrous freeze of . 191.3." ' Ice is forming
on puddles in the streets.
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Jan. 12 Zero
weather is prevailing over Kansas,
Iowa, Nebraska, Missouri and Okla
homa. CHICAGO, IH. Jan. 12. Over a wide
stretch of the North American conti
nent the cold is intense. It has drop
ped by 30 and 60 degrees In some
places. Prince AlbertCanada, Teporta
a temperature of 38 below zero. .
PORTLAND. Ore- Jan. 1 2. Half a
foot of snow has fallen over Portland
and vicinity, impeding traffic very
much. The snow is general over Oregon.-
.'v; :
SEATTLE. Wash- Jan. 12 A 60
mile wind is raging over Seattle and
Puget Sound generally. All the sea
ports are storm-bound for the smaller
vessels Y-bot --the? '.warnings rf the-
weather bureaus enabled the shipping
to take precautions against the gale
TO MEET MAN
FOR FUG TITLE
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
NEW YORK, N. Y., Jan. 12. Jess
Willard, heavyweight champion pu
gilist of the world, and Frank Moran,
another well-known heavyweight have
been matched to fight here on March
3 for a purse of $45,000." The limit
for fights in New York Is 10 "rounds
FOR U. S. ARMY
PENSACOLA, Fla;, Jan. 12. Fifteen
new aeroplanes for the army aviation
station here have been delivered with
in the last 60 days, and the station
is preparing for much activity in de
veloping an efficient flying corps, well
equipped.
WOOD SENDS MESSAGE OF
CHEER TO A. P. TAYLOR
"There will be a heavy travel this
winter, with a splendid -summer, fol
lowed by the best winter that Hawaii
has ever had." This is the text pf the
letter received from H.-P. Wood by
A. P. Taylor of the Hawaii Promfr
tion Committee, this afternoon.
Mr. Wood states that the Outlook
for travel to Hawaii Is improving, and
there appears to be an increase in th5
inquiries concerning Hawaii every
day. Mr. Wood farther states that the
coming of the Great Northern hap
done much for Hawaii.' as ' the com
pany has recently issued a 12-sheet
poster advertising the islands. This
poster is shipped to all the lmportsnt
cities in the United States. ;
MRS. SEREN0 BISHOPS
tlHCTlCTU DIDTLin A V
f rHitm;Tn' oin i nun i . -
.a mm. m mm 0m m - t AMll tm
1o rLcAbAN I LT brtN I
Today is the ninetieth birthday ol
Mrs. Sereno Bishop, pioneer mission;
ary woman and wife of the noted pio
neer missionary Sereno Bishop. She
is very bright and cheerful, and at
the home of her daughter, Mrs. Jona
than Shaw with whom she Is staying,
today she is receiving' the tributes pf
congratulations . and pleasant visits
from her manr friend.
The Derby, lodge of Elks has laid
the .cornerstone of a f 10,000 Elks'
home, . ' ' i'--.- 4 .
JESS W LARD
NE
AEROPLANE
SHOWS ACTIVITY
WANT TAFT TO TAKE
SUPREME COURT POST
i
Ex-Preaident W. H. Taft, on
whose behalf many noted lawyers
are signing a round-robin letter,
urging that Taft be appointed, by
the president as associate justice
of the supreme court, for the va
cancy left by the death of Associ
ate Justice Lamar.
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY
Following are the dosing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, tent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless:
Yester-
v' . Today, day.
American Smelter. .... 107'2 106
American Sugar Rfg. . . .115'2 114
American Tel. A Tei , . . . 5274 127
Atchison . . .. . .......... .106 10654
Baldwin Locomotive. . . . .107 10514
Baltimore & Ohio....... 94 94
Bethlehem Steel ........420.,. 415
Calif. Petroleum ..'..'.... 39 " 34'2
Cunadian Pacific . ....179 177
Colo. Fuel & Iron. . . . . . . . 47 46's
Crucible Steel . . . . . ..... 56 54
Erie Common . . . .. .. .. 4154 41
General Electric .......171 171
Great Northern Pfd......125 124a
Internat'l Harv. N. J. ..109 1098
New York Central...... 110 1098
Pennsylvania ... . . ..... 58 58
Southern Pacific . ... . . .:1C2'2 101
St. Paul . . . .... . . . . . . . ..100 100
Studebaker . . ... .... . . . 1 544 152'i
L'nion Pacific ...... ....138!4 137
U. S. Steel 8614 85'8
U. S. Steel Pfd. . ... . . . . .117 117
Western Union ........ 88'4 884
Westmghouse Elec. .... 6S8 658
1916 BUDGET IS
By a unanimous vote, directors of
the Chamber of Commerce at their
monthly meeting this afternoon, ap
proved the 1916 budget of the Promo
tion Committee, $33,5S0. The 1915
budget was $3 1.635.19. J. F. C. Ha
gens, chairman of the chamber ' fi
nance and audit committee, read
his report, recommending the new
budget's adoption. ;
Kilauea National park came In for
some discussion. The project is now
at a standstill waiting for a reply to
a cable sent by Secretary Raymond C.
Brown to Delegate Kuhio, asking why
the 1911 survey of the park site w'as
included in the congressional bill, in
stead of trie 1914 survey. A reply is
expected by rnail within a few days.
A letter, from Assistant Attorney
general Samuel J. Graham, replying
to the recent resolution of the cham
ber advocating'. Judge Sanford B.
Dole's Teappointment, was read. "Your
letter and resolution will be given
special attention, and I shall call them
to the attention of your delegate when
he arrives," the letter concluded.
A. S.; Cunningham and Gilbert J
Waller were rcted Into membership.
The resignation ot James A. Rath was
accepted. . Reading of monthly reports
was about' the only - other business
transacted. The meeting adjourned at
2:45 this afternoon.- E. Faxon Bishop,
vice-president of the chamber, pre
sided. In the absence of Fred Lv Wald
ron, the president. ' :
RECEPTION FOR CHINA
TOMORROW
N
Welcoming the China Mail steamer
China on her first call at Honolulu fly
ing the new house flas, prominent lo
cal Chinese today issued Invitations
for a reception to be held from 1:30
to 3 o'clock tomorrow afternoon, at
Pier 7. An informal reception will be
held on board the China, which Is
due to arrive off port at daylight to
morrow, from San Francisco. '
' Pedro Pihi, a Filipino, charged With
assault and battery, was found guilty
fry Circuit Judge Ash ford today, The
Case was tried without a jury. -
PROMOTION BODY
GIVEN APPROVAL
BRITISH AIR-FLEET THROWS
BACH TWELVE ATTACKS UPON
LONDON BY GjRlAN ZEPPELINS
ARRIVING PASSENGERS TELL STORY ON REACHING NEW
YORKBERLIN DECLARES FRENCH ATTACK ON CHAM
PAGNE HAS COLLAPSED AND ALLIES ADMIT SLIGHT
GAINS BY TEUTONS AUSTRIA'S DRIVE INTO MONTE
NEGRO GETS SERIOUS "
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless.
NEW YORK, X. Y Jan. 12. Passengers arriving here totlay
from Europe bring news that since October 14 there, have been
twelve big raids ".by German Zeppelin squadrons attempted upon
London. They say that these raids have been repulsed through the
activities of a fleet of British aeroplanes whieh patrol the air-lane
between -London and the Channel and North Sea coast. Dr. W. II.
.Vincent of the colonial -'medical' corps, who arrived here today, says
that three Zeppelins which flew over English territory were de
stroved or captured bv the British air-patrols.
Austrian Troops May Be Able to
Cut Off Allies In Balkan Arena
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireleas.1
LONDON', England, Jan. 12. That the Austrian ad vaneen into
Montenegro offer serious prospects for the success of the Allien in
the Balkans is the situation as it appears today based on recent news
from that arena of .war. '
. The report that the Austrians have occupied Mount liovcen hi
Montenegro is believed now to be true.. Uneasiness is felt among
the Entente Powers over this situation, as the summit of this strong
hold dominates Cattaro Bay, where the Austrian naval base is be
ing developed. A srteeessful blow by the Teutons into the heart of
the Montenegrin country might isolate the Allied troops now de
fending the northeastern frontier. .
Allies Admit Gains
- LONDON, England, Jan. 12. The Allies admit that tost Srttur-day.and-Sunda.Y
thev.QewAaHy by;huitiirg division after diyloa-irc
the Allied positions in Champagne, made slight gains. They declare
that the Germans won a few trenches at a terrible loss of life and
number wounded.
French Attack At Lemesnil Beaten
BERLIN, Germany, Jan. 12. The French attack north of le
mesnil has collapsed. Along this part of the Champagne section ait
attack on a thousand-yard front was made but it has been repulsed
by the Germans. '' v . . V
Lull on East Front; Russia Hopsful
LONDON, England, Jan. 12. There is a lull today onthe east,
ern front, where for days there has been almost continuous fighting
between the Slavs and Austrians in the vicinity of Czernowitz, Buko
wina. While there is apparently less active : fighting, the Russians
are said to be consolidating their newly-won positions so success
fully that the Austrians in alarm are moving their supplies from, the
bases established with the idea of a spring advance deeper into
Russia. .';': ;v ,',-:-'" -' '"v
British Cabinet May Hold Together
LONDON, England, Jan. 12. Indications which may mean the
passing of the cabinet crisis over the question, of compulsory military .
service became public today. The resignations of Arthur Hender
son, president of the board of education; William Brace, under sec-
retary of the home office, and George Roberts, junior lord of the
treasury, were withdrawn. AH these represent the labor party in
the ministry.
r .-';-. -
Turks Surround British; Stop Sorties :
CONSTANTINOPLE, Turkey, "Jan. 12. The British fqree at ;
Kutelamara, Mesopotamia, has made several sorties against thfe Turk
ish troops which surround it, but each sortie has been repulsed with
losses. .'V ,,. -. ' : -
Lille Ammunition Depot BIovn,Up
. BERLIN, Germany, Jan. 12, The French suffered a severe loss
iirthe blowing-up of an ammunition lepot at Lille, in which 70 were
killed and 40 injured. Considerable damage otherwisewas done.
TO ACCEPT OR REJECT
KUHIO WHARF ROAD AT
BOARD MEETING T0DAK
; - . ... . . .- 't
Final decision whether or not to ac
cept the. long discussed Kuhio wharf
road from J. C. Foss, Jr., cotitractor,
Foss having made' alterations In it as
suggested by the harbor board, is ex
pected at the meeting of the board thi3
afternoon. -. -
At a late hour today the board had
not decided upon the question. Chair,
man A. C. Wheeler submitted a letter
to the members, going into the road
and its alterations in detail, and' the
members are' making a close study of
the samples of concrete wbicht the
chairman has brought back with him.
Wheeler stated to the board that he
went over the road eight times during
his last visit, riding over it once in
a Ford automobile at the rate of 50
miles an hour, a bit of evidence which
he declared to be a sign that the road
is In pretty good shape. Wheeler has
left it to the harbor board to state
By German
WATER USERS MU3T
HAVE PAYMENTS MADE.
BEFORE END OF WEEK
Only tkree more days of grace arc '
left for the water consumer wb hw ?
Hot yet palcf his rates Mana;er Harry
B. Murray, of r the water department "
said today that water users have un- '
til pext Saturday to . get their rate?
Into the office.
Yesterday was a big day fax collec
tions, 17573.40 being turned in at the
collection window, and up to noon to
day more than S30.000 had been re-
ceired since the first of -the year. . .
, "Kothlng whatever to say on the 1
subject," said Joshua D. THcker ter-
ritorial commissioner of public lands, r
when asked this morning as to the
truth of the rumor that he and the
governor are not enjoying the most,
cordial of relations.
whether the road shall bo accepted,
however." ' ' , "
s
