he
MISERY IN MEXICO.
Actual photographs showing hardship and
suffering across our southern border.
IN THE-SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Increasing cloudiness to-day; to-morrow,
snow or rain.
Highest temperature yesterday, 51; lowest, 35.
Detailed weather, null and marine report-ton page 13.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 134.
4M-
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY
191G. C'oj'Vlflil, 10111, by thr Hun Printing and 'tiMliMnn- AiHorfoMoti.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
12,
GIBRALTAR OF
ADRIATIC WON
BY AUSTRIANS
JIoiiloiH'ffrins Lose Mount'
Lovoon. Dominating
Fcaport of Cattnro.
ITALY FACES GRAVER
DAXCiKKS IX ALBANIA
Xntive Tribes Likely to
.loin Forces With Teu
tonic Allies.
fttdal Cable Petpttch to Tbi Be.
Ivtt"N, 12 ( Wednesday).
Mount 1ivci-n. "the (SlbrnJtar of the
Adt alio," dominating tho Austrian port
cf Catt.im. lias been taken by Hie Aim
trUns. This news Is contained In on of
ti m announcement made last night at
1 :etin.i. 1
The Vienna Announcement Is an fol-
lo: t
On U10 Montenegrin front Mount
Lov-ren has been captured.
We occupy tho Karst Mountains .
nd the Heraiie, heights. We captured
t'it-dx inr.iiun, four mortars and
i.i ci' quantities nf nmmunitlon ami
w.ir material ,
T' e latest Montenegrin official state-1
Me ' ciimvrnlnK the situation at Cattaro
rc veil here ca)s;
K01 the l.iit four ila.vs the Austrian
nave Kin delivering furious attacks
v our Mount Iovfeii front. Sup.
p. h1 b .1 hurricane uf uninterrupted
v fiom warships and the forts of
.ai r", the enemy advanced as far as
u P. st 1 ,tt- of defences. Our troops
lepjSesI h m time after time, Inflicting
v orniou Ioses. but at nlKht. as the
i-ff ill of ii desperate struggle. In
! ' tlit enemy resorted to asphyx
iating ga!ei, the Austrian were en
abled to occupy our positions at Kuk
ar.d lletatz.
The morale of our troops Is ex
cellent notwithstanding privations of
al' sorts. Tho lighting continues.
Commenting on the Austrian an
rounrcmcnt of the raptuie of Mount
Lovcen. the Timts cays:
"If it is true that Mount Lovcen has
btcn captured, a position of great lm
lorlanre huK been lost to-the Allies.
With Lovcen In Austrian hands Cattaro
and tho hay of Cattaro would be In
valuable to the Cential Towers, and the
whole balance of power In the Adriatic
aJTuted, The Austrlans would long a bo
l.ave' created a first class naval base
tf.cre but for the fact that modern Runs
1 Mount l.ovceu command th whole
lio-vho dl Cattaro."
A our Austrian squadron has been
tcttlc up In thi Hocchc dl Cattaro,
a tic '.indli.K channel' leading from
he town to the sea arc called, since
Al'Nl of last year. Individual units of
tr.i fleet have been able to slip out of
" ie ' iy and to return, pursuit by the
tul.ed Med terruui-.in tlcets beli.K pio
e'niil bj the narruw tiers of the ohan
n .111.1 the fortltlcations of Verm.iti.
I. 1 iie 0.1st The chief aim of the
.1 ntir.cgnns was to seize the town of
1 ,-Mr.. ur. 1 the heights commanding
tin laiivne' and thus compel the cut-
. r the Meet.
. i fall of Lovcen Is the most lm
l'it slices thus far achieved in the
, .-'1 10 invasion of MonteneKio, the
wi;. ,,f wlitcli extends fiom the river
1 . 1 r t'l.j west to the Ipek region
. . .t It H u success which, it Is
I k, admitted here, foreshadows far
u 1 . tig ronsefiuellCeS.
v ie f..r ti.e Austrlans the taking of
M m l,.iccn means merely the safety
0' ' r siaport. this tirct blow struck
I -he invaders on the Adtlatic coast Is
. I here to hi the forerunner of a
io- of othei moves conte'nplated by
I I. :trt.ins and MuIb irl.in-. Anxiety
li;.i dim; the invasion of Albania, con-
"11.115 which little has been heard of
e s -evnid nr.d mllltar) critics are
cam .entr.TiB attention on Scutari,
irut.i . 1 1 I Aluua. the chief go lis of
' v.obis At Aviona a strons Italian
" . u expected to try to halt the Hul
e T'ure Is no concealing the fact,
At'ier, that the fe.i- Is becoming
ir. re a: d mote general In military circles
lat Itiilj s "intervention" In the llal
k " '.irne "too late" to prevent the
Te'j'm. ,md ltulKars from pushing their
! ui to the Adriatic to a successful
. 'ticlUKlr.n
Th tistrinn fleet In the Cattaro
t' ght -onsis's of four battleships, two
rj!ter8 and a conderable niitnlier of
' pMo raft Cattaro also has herved
'ti Auitr.anH as their chief 'submarine
Thn actual ferlnus bombardment of
Mrrji.t Iiven at the hand" of the Aus
'.irifr Wan on December 29. Since
her thet made steady thoiiKh slow
. the atduous task of reducing
if Moi.tenek'rin mountain batterlew,
A --'r . n mirships in the "Ilocche" par
'' !'' 1 tho iKimbardment Tvo
''. a-o in olllclal Montenegrin state
l""v f .res.,.ulod the early fall of the
'" "e ln eti isHitlon. admitting the
1 of ,. ,iithw( stern peak,
The Home correspondent of The Son
"''irr.iphed the following this a.'ter
I '".r
The Austrinns have consumed Kuk,
- it,iwsterti peak of Mount Ijovccn,
I. .is ilefended by only 3.000 Mon-
"cnr.s usthout artillery. The de-f-nli'i
were dtlveri hack and the Aus
' "'i ret.e,itd their attncKS with tho
T.'-ie oletice
I' feared tli.it the Autllnns will
""eel in rotiquerlng the entire moun
u n '
ITALY ALARMED.
, r"r r.ffecf r liiivren'a Cnptnre I
on lis tilrlfille lull-rout.
"'Mr. .lm, it, The jtallan paper
' U" t. matitfesl loncerri over tho j
' Mtluii in Monteneero, '
" '- .'si ttie rihutira'a military
"ie wiUini! hiforo the newH of the
J'" "f Mount Lovcen reached Homo,
'I" 1o. vess s slow advance over the
"i. ii' Kr.iihd in Montenegro Is not due
'k men Ibnce the necessity
' MoiiieneKrlii nnd Setbian armies
in to build fortlllcatlons adapted
to ik the further progress of the Au-
lr the meantime the Allies mult
'' ' 'he MontenoKrlns and Herblans
' ' if d urtillery of medium and heavy
J- re ! prcient the oapturo of 1ovreii,
L"Inrn and other atrategicul ioeltlon."
J
t .
1 Piure by tho Austrinns of Mount Lovcen assures to Austria
the safety of the important Dalmatian seaport of Cattaro. A
mrgo Austrian squadron has been bottled up in the Hocche di Cattaro
sinco the beginning of tho war, when the Allies' Mediterranean fleet
chased the Austrian warships into the well protected bay. Since then
Cattaro has served tho Austrian as a submarine bnse. It was from
here that most of tho submarine raids in the Adriatic, principally
those against Italian troop nnd supply ships bound for Albania, wore
undertaken. Recently several small units of the Austrian squadron
made a dash out of the Hocchc dl Cattaro but wore promptly driven
back. The inset on the accompanying map of tho Cuttaro region nhows
the rolntlvn nAaUUna f 1 t...i..
,..,..,.,,., Ui .iiuim-iicK'
SA YS BRITISH
PARALYZED
ADRIATIC SEA
Anglo-Danish Pact, Declares "Daily Mail," Means In
ability to Prevent Importation Into Germany,
Thus Making Blockade a Farce.
!' ' ii We Untouch to Tut Sis. i
London, Jan. 12 ( Wednesday). Tlie I
Daily Mail liegln this morning ILs prom-
lsel statements puriorting to prove that I
Ureal llrltain Is puruslng a liollcy of
being "gentle to Germany" and allow
ing food and material for making am
munition to pass freely through Den
mark to thai country. It prints a long j
article by llasil Clarke, whom It sent
to Copenhagen to ascertain the facts of
"the mysterious agreement concluded
between Knglaiid and Denmark," and
that the facts that he pro
duces cannot be cmtroierted.
"Ills I'gure" show," It asserts, "that'
all kinds of supplies are being rushed
through from Denmark to the Herman
army, while the greatest tieet In the
world, which is only too anxious to
crush Its Herman enemies. Is paralyzed
by orders."
Tho lUnly .ViiiTj correspondent says:
"The phrases 'dreat llrltain Is block
adlm? Herman-' and 'Croat llrltain is
starving Herman ' hive leconio well
nigh the laughing stock ." neutral
traders, while for Herman- nnd Herman .
traders with Scandinavia they are pre
eminently the best Joke of the war. I
Danish synuuthles are entirely with the
Allies, especially with Croat llrltain, and ,
the Danes are revolted by the woik that)
Denmark Is forced to do.
"Denmark Is not her own mlstre-a. ,
Just now the big Herman list overhangs ,
It. threatening, bullying, driving!
The Hermans threaten to scire Ddi
mark unless that country furnishes Her-1
n any with the surplus Danish food com
module and such commodities us she
can kci uurouu.
"The Mritlt.li naval examination of
consignment n route, the exaction of
n.. nu u.wi ,iii nther wafecuards im
posed," Mr. Clarke continues In his arti-
cle, "are all wasted effort. I he guar
antees Hfii't worth the Ink with which
they are written.
"Olllclal routine loons nnmirau.r, uu.
ne.ssllkM and thorough, but actually It Is j
nonsense, for the Ideas of the lliltlh
logatloti at Copenhagen In reference to
the pood or bad falUh of lespoetlvo D in-j
Uh trader. Is childish beyond words. ,
The ligation's rulings are treated as a'
joke, except by those angeled at their j
arbitral lm-." 1
Lengthy dualLs nre given in the ar
ticle claiming to chow how easil the
rules are evaded. '
Figures are given showing enormous ,
increased in the Danish Importations of,
rice, lard, linseed oil. pork. tel. coffee,
cocoa, meat and oleomargarine all
vastly In execs of possible home con
sumption. An ImmHise preponderance
of these goes to Herman-, says the
writer, eome to Sweden and a tiny pait
to Ilussla. . ,
A description is given of the long
liner of freight cars that transport these
poods night and day, some direct to,
Herman-, others by way of Sweden, and
statement are offered purporting to
piove that the latter elan. proceed j
promptly from .Sweden to Herman terri
tory. J I
"If llrltain license and permits
lecommendatlons which make possible
this pouring of tho world's g(sls Into
Hernmnv," the article concludes, "there j
Ie little' wonder that the Danish mer
i.n...u n,i ,ttife onlookers exclaim.
My word, ou are truly Christian peo
jde, for you really love your enemies.'"
MAY COERCE DENMARK.
Hermntij nelleril to He I'llllinlim
nrlte III orh.
Special Correipondtnce to Tint 8t,
London. Dec. 31 Although there In
no uneasiness on the sunjeot anil it is
certain that the Allied High Command
has the matter well In hand, thero is a
growing feeling In England that nor
mally Is preparing to play u new. nnd,
llrltlshers think, her Inst card during
tho winter months.
After threshing out for several weeks,
the much advertised German statements
of a coining march toward Kgypt nnd
India and tho threats of a new offen
sive In France, Kngllsh military wrltori)
have come to the com III Ion that nil
the talk of a inarch to the Hast nnd
of a new atluok In Franco Is Intended
In hide Home other move.
Tim time, they think. Is nt hand when
normally will inaka a real effort to strll.e
at Kngland, either directly or Indirectly,
probably the latter, and the opinion In
expressed that other neutrali will get
u una imiy.
FLEET IS
"BY ORDERS
mixed up In the nght. The supposition
unit me Kaisers licet will lake a baud
In the game is exciting great Inteieat
In naval circles, and hopes of a new
Trafalgar are running high.
Gerard Flcnnes, the w,II knoun naval
correeiKindeiit of the London Olnerior,
tliinks that formally has serious de
signs on Denmark.
'Setting ,iide,' he sas, "the hypoth
esis that the enemy regards tin pos
Session of Calais as a condition prece
dent to a successful attempt, t'ure cesiii
to be two courses open to him. He may
use the Helglan ports of AMtwetp and
Zeebrugge, though the ue of tint former
would lnolve a llition of Dutch
neiitralit, or be may Hiiddci" move the
fores now collecting in Helglum norti
aid to Hamburg and llindeti .mil l-iun-li
his tApiditum from nitre.
"The Idea of a sudden iiiom iii.mii n ,rt'i
w.ird and at: rmbat'k.itmii at ll.unl,
atil Ktnilen has been dis,'usj ,.'t.n
and In detail. There If, honevei, i.n
othei osslble exp'atiifit'oii of the ti"W
Herman concetitr.it. on which wish to
HUgost. It is possible that the Hot nan
Heneial St. iff Is . onteiiipl.itine anotli t
attack upon a neutral State I mean
something more than a nuie passage .'f
the Scheldt, and. Indeed, look to auot.'r
victim rather than Holland.
"The advantage to Hermany of the
pixsesslun of Denmark aid the small
addition to the power of h.r f' en which
war on Unit kingdom would entail nuke
It Minii'uluil curious tli.it our unsctupu
lolls eneiii has so long refrained from
hostile movement igalnst the Danes t
the present tune when H, mini command
of the ll.iltn Is menaced by the n turn
of llrith.1i M'hm.ii iiics .aid H. iin. in de
feme IigalllM them Is hatUiered liV the
position of the D.ities in conttol )f tlie
Melts and one shote of the Sound, It
would seem that an Inimen'.e adv.mt.ign
might be enjoyed by the client if he
could ovetriiu D.nuuirk as lie his filer
run Melgiutu, and thus make tlie Italtlo
almost completely a 'mare cl.iiiwnn.'
"If by tlireats or by hostile action
(terni.iny should succeed In getting con
trol of I'ciim.ti'k sl.e would, among other
things, put us to the necessity of seiz
ing and holding liei.uid nnd the Faroe
Islamic, both placet which might be n
considerable annoyance to us, if nothing
worse, should they come into the
enemy's hands. Other reasons might be
assigned for mspe. ting the Intention of
(terni.iny towatd Denmark. Hut these
will suillce. It l a contingency which
certainly ought not to bo left out of
sight"
GERMAN REPUBLIC
AIM OF NEW PARTY
Powerful Teutonic Ornnizii
lion 1o Issue a Manifesto
Shortly.
7.1'im'll, Jan 11 Information comes
to Switzerland through tta idlers that a
republican party of considerable power
has In en funned In Ueiinaiiy. The party
will publish shortly a sensational mani
festo In Zurich.
Not since the stormy days of 1 14 S.
when revolt thn atoned Hermany, hits
theie been any oonciele movement any
whole In Hermany Inward a cliango
from Ihe miiniiiclilcal In the lepubllcan
Xorm of government In Imv of thn
oft tested unity of the vuiIoiih Kelclistag
representations, a unity to which even
the bulk of the Socialist part has ad
hered since the outlno.ik of the war,
the success of a i epulillciu movement
In Germany at the present tine Is prob
lematlcal. The ilgldlly of the censorship litis not
prevented frequent signs of discontent
among ceitnln factions of the Herman
population from tillering through. The
high cobt of foodstuffs la principally
responsible for this discontent It Is
conceivable that the leporleil movement,
for tho establishment of a "Itepubllc of
Hermany" was. set afoot h (lie 'minority
of the Socialist party, composed of the
tuunly Socialist Deputies who tefiised
at Ui" last session lo into fur the hill
railing for an additional wai credit
In August. l!HI. Dr Karl Llebldieclu
uttracted Ihe attention of the world by
casting his vote against the first war
credit. His 'n tin only dltjtientlni
vote at that time.
17 AMERICAN
MINERS SLAIN
BY MEXICANS
Victims Taken From Train.! Hampton Moore Opens (J.
Then Robbed. Stripped I 0. P. Attacks on I'resi
and Murdered. dent in House.
0XE MAX KSCAIMvS
FROM VILLA BANDITS '
111. I 'am, Tex, .tan. 11. Takeji from
a Mexican Northwestern train, stripped
of their clothes, robbed and stood against
an adobe wall, eeventccn Amerlcnns nre
known to have been executed by Mcxl-
1 can bandits near Chihuahua city some
time on Monday.
According to n message to Mrltlsh
Consul II. C. Myles In 111 I'aso to-night
from Vice-Consul Seobel at Chihuahua
city, the tragedy occurred ut Santa
Isbel, scenty-!le miles west of Chihua
hua city. The bodies were brought
tl.ere to-ulght. 1
The news was brought to Chihuahua
city by F. II. Holmes, one of a party of
Americans who left there Monday morn-.
Ing He was the last man on the
end ef the line stood against the wall i
and succeeded In "dipping away and
i reaching Chihuahua. As he ran through
the underbrush hi- heard the shots of
the firing suiid. !
Mr Holmes s.ii that the train was
Mopped In the early morning by heavily
, iirinid Mexicans, The Americans wcie
compelled to leave the cars They found
themselves u n little depression thickly ,
ii'loriii with mesUlte trees and under
brush. Drought before tin- commanding
I olllcer. whom Mr. Holmes did not know, I
tlie mining nun were searched and
stripped i
l Thiiti a line of Mexl.ans funned on
each hide, the w.td to ads a nr.' was
given and the Amencitis were marchi d
tn an adobe but a quarter of a mile ,
, distant.
i:ciifil From Month Line.
I A tew prayed as the Mevlcan tiring
squad drew up In front of them. It
was then that .Mr. Holmes, at one end
of the line, took advantage ..f some
, confus-iim nmong the .Mexicans and
I slipped around the comer of the house 1
I unobserved He made Ids way actoss
the deceit to Chihuahua, after securing
clothes fiom friendly Mexicans on the
outsklits of a Ullage, and telegraphed
here.
The party war i-ii.it g of c. ,
Watsin, general manager of the Cusl
Mining Company. This party left 111
I'aso Saturday for Chihuahua. A me- ,
sage was. received Mnnd.i :iylng that i
the mining men had armed In Chi
huahua safely and planned to leave some
time Motida for Clin to begin opera
tions. This w.is tht. a beard of them
until a nie-ii ige was tecoiv.-d it the
offices of lb.- -oi.ip,ui b, I,, tn. day te. ,
porting their me, 'it. .in
Tile llH'lplcte lv ,,f Amellcins W h"
left 111 l'.u-i Is as fole-ws
Charles It Watson, general manager.
W .1. Wall.oe. m;.e Inteiideiit
M. M. Homer , o!ll' e man, who for
merly was with the Madera Comp.ui)
and who lc a Now .Met iti man.
Tan M F..ui. stori keeper.
i'. A. I'ringle. mine foreman.
Maurice Anderson, c'.etk. cm of ft"
land Anderson, cftclar) of the Chihua
hua Fori Ian Club
It 1" MilI.Htan of 111 Cam. a stenog.
r.ipher and uncle of It, J I'eale of New
York .1 P C'-iy. n mill m in
Alev Hall, a mill man
Charles aillelgh. n mill man,
K. L. liohiiiMiu, an assayer for the
i onipany
H. W. Newman, a iiiIii.uk engineer
II, C Has.', a mill man
I Adams (not known).
It. 11. Simmons, master mechanic for
the Cud MoMcniio Mining Company.
W. I) I'caree, manager of an liide-
pendent mine.
J. W. Woon, residence unknown i
Murr) Ctosset, another a ell known
mining man. Is ieirtod to have been in
the part), but this cannot be lerltled
He Is a relative of Alls-it Maieriik of
San Antonio Heueral Manager Watson I
lived in Hi Pico He was minted only
six weeks a-o and brought his wife to
111 I'aso fiom Kans.it, i
IHn'n Folloiiers If'ullt),
The Cu-I mines ate among tin- inhest '
in northern Mexico. Tliev are owned by .
Hotter Maimer of Chicago and his acsn- '
elates, Mini developed into a bonanj-.i
soon after they wele Isnight by the
l'.i'mer Int. rests tUo )ears ago i Is,
l'eie l here that the men were killed '
b) troiic under Hen .lose Itodriguez, a
follower of Villa, and vt it It the approvil
of Villa.
The Amerieai.t are said to have been
sent to leopeli Lie mines on asMir.lllCi'S
of protection lo the smelting company
glien b tbi1 CuriMiiz.i Hoiernnient
through tlie I'uited Slates Stale Depart
ment. Continuation of the shooting of Man.
rlco Aiidetsnii, a member of the mil .
was leceived to-night. It was a lit iff
mitisiige from his fatl-o ltd ml i. I. . .
son. at Chihuahua clt, to this mother.
reading
"Maurice Is no more
his boil) "
Almost Iminedlately
Hope tn roc
after the
first
news of the raid was
received
cell.
sorslilp was Impuced on tho wires he.
tween Juaron and chihuahua clt) liv
the Carraura olllclals, "until the story
could be verllled from olllclal Mexican
sources," It was said.
U. S. WON'T INTERFERE.
Will l.el llrllnln lliiiidle (use of
llnuHxhiniiii Killed,
Wasiiiniito.n-, Jan. 1 1 The lUliid
Htntes flovernment has no Intention of
demanding of Oen Carranza reparation
anil punishment of thosn nspouclble for
tho execution of Pater Keane. foreman
of thu Hearst ranch near Madera, Mex
ico. On the ground that Keane Is an ling.
Ilshm.m. and the F.ngltsh flnvernnieiu
now has diplomatic representatives ac
credited lo tho Cnrianza (loverntnent,
the Stale Department let It be known
to.dny that It will not follow the course
which this ilovernmenl pursii(.i two
yeurH ago lu ileinandlng the piiiilshnient
of those responsible for Ihe killing of
thn Kiiglhlimiin lleutnn
An otliclal report of the execulliin of
Keane was received al thn Stale De
partment lo-ila.v. but It contains mi ,ie.
tailed nccnuiit uf thu lucldeiil
lleJh bins llerrfiHil I'nriii Saiu.ii(r,
They cost nuirie try tliem and ire wliy,
Mails ut th Fu-ni, Boutliburuuf h, .,
.tifi'.
PROGRESSIVES PLAN TO JOIN G. O. P;
WILL NOT INSIST ON ROOSEVELT;
WILSON IS CALLED A REPUDIA TOR
DEMOCRATS (J KTTlXti
KKADY TO HIT HACK
3Iore Shod on tlie
"Policy" Loiter of
Y. .1. Bryan.
Waniiin'ikmn, .Ian 1 1 The Important I
part that the one term plank of thej
Ilaltluvirn plntform Is to piny In the'
debates of Congris was Indicated by
developments M-day i
lteprecnt.it! e .1 Hampton Moore of I
fernis) lvanla. a Itepubllc m. delivered I
a speech iittaeklng the President for
having repudiated this obligation. Other
speeches by Itepubllcans are In the
course of preparation and It Is certain
that the Democrats will not be able to
remain silent on the subject.
Mali) believe that the President him
self will coon lie obliged to take a hand
Hi the d.soiicslou.
Further I ght was shed to.dav upon
the htw i whbli William .1. Ilrymi wrole
to a member of Congress In 1.1 and
which the Wilson Administration ex
pects to ue if Mr. Mi vim attoi.ptn to
rale 111- single l.-nn lcue against the
Piesltbtit In that letter Mr llrj.m
oxpiesscd tlie opinion fat the Haiti
more plank was intended .is a declaration
of policy and sIihiihI t.ot bind any In
d'.Udual until legislation had been passed
and that the limitation was applicable to
all partus
T'le lltldets'.indltlg bete to-ii'ght WHS
that 11m litter was written to Henry
D .a) ton, chairman of th lloine
Jihlli-iarv Committee, befoie which the
single tenn r. solution lc pending. Mr.
Clinton lc now on the Federal bench.
It Is i'd that other members of the
Judic.ir) Committee saw the letter. In
fa 't oi e niemNv acknowledged to-day
that be hud lead it He declined, how
eler. to sav whete the letti'r 1 at
presort.
Members of t'-.e reoluti dl" committee
of the ti.iltlmore couietitloii which
drafted the platform said to-day that
I he one term plank was the child of
William .1. Kryan and that ho forced It
Into the platform. Il Is because of Mr.
M"-) -in s perconal htetrst In the plank
tn.it niatiy m.mbe-s of Cotigries now
epe,t bin to make tumble for tha
President t -.s . ore
The believe thai Mrvati s attack will
he iil-tied ch.etl) at the Presidents fail
ure to make any effort to pacs this login
lal.on Thev pe. t that Mr. Hnan will
iin.-'it the litter which Mr Wlleon -wrote
to A. Mitchell Palmer and which was
need to b:mg about the defeat of th."
on.- term ioMlution pending before.
Con. tle.
It l app.noM now that Ihe Deum.
ciatt Nat'on.il Cnmmittee when It met
ro'cntl In Wasliliigton foresaw Just
Ml, h a situation as is now developing In
rigaid to the President and the one
term plank. That is why the committee
took the eMraordinarv action of calling
by formal resolution upon the Pres'deut
to run for another term. Democrats
aie preparing to cite Ibis action of the
Nation il Committee a" a pattl.ll Justl
lb ut ion for the unoring of the one term
plank.
t hie of the Domiur.it!.' leaders 111 thn
S-i He sutgi-ted to-day that the pirty
ni. ght go fin t her aed Immediately after
the national convention was cilb-d to
order In St. liuls adopt a resolution
nu!'if)lng the plank In the Maltlmore ,
Ida I form '
The enibarr.is.siiL' featnte of such a
couis... Iiowever. would be that no action
by the St looils convention could undo
the part v.hi h the one term plank had
plave.l m getting votes for Mr. Wl'son '
in 1111, when it was assumed that tho
ix;. less, on h.iii .. en inserted In Hie plat
form in good faith
Itepre-eiitatlvi' Monro sud In his
cpe.i-li In th" House tool'': ,
'Annlher pl.mk In that i eniark.ible
omi'iid.um of Democratic thought, the
Hill lni.it e plut'orni of 1!1?. his been
chattel-oil Into cpl liters The President
uf the Pnlted St .lis. who ran upon that
V'atfoliu and who has alieady tendered
main of Its duK-ei patagraplis Into
i.orthless sawiliit. Is not In sympathy
with the peislt-nl llle.l of Ills llti S'C
retan of State Hot .i single term of six
)eais Fhould citlsfi n Preslilent.
"Without legislation, wh'eh M- llrvan
left to the Cabinet, It is now dear after
the lapce of approvitnately two )eati
tiiat Mr. Wilson did not agree with Vr '
Mryau and that he ran upon i'-e Dunn
ontte platfoitn In which Mr Mryan In
jected his favorlle plank with a mental
rosi'tvatlon."
COMMITTEEMEN SEND
OPINIONS ON PLANK
Deuioi r.itic Nitioi.il Cnmmitteemen
weie requested yesterdiy to declare
whither or not t'-e singe term plank of
th.' Maltunore conventions platform In
l.tl! was binding on President Wlleon
This was the plank
Wo favor a single Presidenll.il
term, and to that end tuge tlie adop.
Hon of an amendment totlie Constitu
tion making the Pieshlnnt of the ,
I'nlted States Ineligible fir reelection,
and we pledge the candidate of tins
.invention to Ibis principle.
Tho opinions, so far ns they were ex
pressed categorically, worn that Mi
WiWiiu Is not hound bv a definite pledge
pot lo run again. Thesu opinions follow
PENNSYLVANIA.
, Vllleliell Pal in or Sii) II Ileal
Willi Noil Convention, 1
National Committeeman ,. Mitchell 1
Palmer of I'ennsv Ivnnla lo whom Mr
Wilson cent I lie letter defining his iln
tudo on a second linn. said. "The'
slngln term plmk of the Haltlmote plat-1
foim Is binding nn the nominee of that i
convention Just as far an tha next con
vention decides to make It. If the SI.
Louis coventloii renominates President '
Wilson, as It surely will, that will lie
a construction of the character qf tlie
iViiiHiifici mi .Vfftimf Pilye, i
Aflil'STA NI'Kf'IAI l:n l M. DAILY.
HlllITHI-lltN ll.UI.WAY for Aiken nnd Au.
(imln, HuperbMrvIc. ,N. V.OHIc, SllltkAv.
Adv.
PROGRESSIVE PARTY'S STAND
ON UNION WITH THE G. O. P.
National Committee Tells What the Bull Moose Is For
and of the Danger to the Country
Under Wilson.
Cnuwiai, Jan. 11. Following Is the
text of thn official tatement Issued by
the Progressive National Committee,
opening the iloor for the amalgamation
of the Kepubllcan and I'rogremlve
parties In the coming Presidential iam
p.tlgn :
"The Progies.ilve party began Its ex
istence, as did the Uepubllcan party, ns
a party of moral conviction and na
tional purpose, Tlie Progressle plat
form of MM 2 was of necessity a com
posite of national and iSt.itn issues, for
the party was n new organization and
had to speak at once to both nation
and State. Slnco then the State issues,
such as the short ballot, initiative, ref
erendum nnd recall have been taken up
In various State platforms.
"Thn national Issues presented by our
platform of 111- and those for which
we mm- stand represent the vital needs
of our national life. They uie in nub
Mance :
" 'A broader nationalism, to make po-
bb an effective programme of social
and Industrial Justice at home and tho
protection of Amen. -.in minens and
r.giitH abroad.
"'The constructive Federal regulation
rather than the destrueuve disruption
of etllclent bundles oi gaulnatlolia be
havior and not clz-, being the its'
" 'The Intioductlon of huslnca.i tlllclen
cy Into the governnicnt by the budget
system and the cuordln.iLon of depart
ments. Tar I IT Coiiintlauloii.
" "A rMmanent. non-pnrtlsaii tariff com
iuIsmimi to make pussible the scientific
rcvlMori of tariff cchedu!e on protective
lilies. aIsj. a pledge for tlie revnijii
of sucJi MCbedules as tlie conditions of
world war have made unjuct or as n-o
nwei-sary for the pi e'ervation, after the
war, of Industries newly established hern
whose necessity the war hue di-mo'i-str.itisl.
" 'A provision for equal suffrage.
" The delhi-onement of tho Invlslbai
gtivernmeiit.
"'A provision for an adequate mer
chant murine.'
"To the Progressive platform of 1011,
as above cummnrlund ami amplified, we
pledge our .sitiunuid ulleglntico. Nith -f
the old parties having faded to make se
rious effort to enact these national prln -clples
into law
Meoause of the failure of the Wilson
Adiniiilctratlon to deal adequately with
national honor and Industrial warfare
this country faces pioblems of a graver
and mote far leaching i-onecquence than
any since the civil war
International law is humanity's final
c.if. guard and clvilliriitlou-c last bulwark.
Its recognition und observance bv Hie
nation Is the true measure of the
worlds progress It ,.s out- nK, amy
to do our utmost to uphold li fr the
advancement of higher civilization. It ;c
likewise our eupromo duty to protect
American Institutions and Amettcan
standards of Justice.
Musi Create I.omiHj.
"This momentous hour theiefor de
mands a complete pieparednecs mt
merely In military atmament, but pro
paredne.ss that will moblllre our eco
nomic ri'soure.'s. agrl.iiltiii.il. lndin.i-i.il
and financial preparedness that will
unify American citizenship and . ro.it
a loyalty to our Institutions nm
peoples of other nations have so pa'r'o'l
call) shown since the terrible to", of
war
"Not th" preparedness of self-defei ce
which ceal' a spirit iln ilterahl) op.
posed to tnlllt..rlsm and the ultimato ob
ject of which l universal peace, '.up n
national spirit and soul which vte-.vi
tb" diK-trlne of prace at any prl.-e :ii
WARNS DEMOCRATS OF
A MENACING DEFEAT
W.sn,v,iTos Jan. 11 Sniitor N'ew
liuids of Nevada, one of the Demo
cratic lendeis. startled hl colleagues to
dav by delivering a speech In which he
fiankly reviewed the mistakes made bv
his party lu the last thtee years and
expiessed the fear that the partv would
be defeated n 1?D) un!es measures
weie taken He imlnted out what In
his opinion would avoid a defeat
Theie were smiles on the faces of
the Senators after Mr Newiands ob
served that It would not do to wait
until the convention tiles to appease the
party with platform pledges. Many
seemed lo have 111 mind the fate that
has ovoi taken the single term plank In
Ihe Haltlmnrc platform
"The Democratic party has been in
power during the llfty-tlve year period
since the close of tho civil war only
eleven year, and of that period only four
ye.irs consecutively. In every Instance
losing power as the result of the fear
of the resentment of the business classes
with their accompanying conditions of
unemployment which made tnot potent
with the workliiginan 'tho full dinner
pall' argument and caused them reluct
antly to yield tn the persuasion of our
opponents," said Senator Newiands,
The Senator declared that the party
was In similar danger In the Congres
sional elecllniiH of H'M, "a danger," he
explained, "only averted b) the .iio
pean war."
Ilnslneas llepresslon,
"Hut an Industrial and commercial
depression has been experienced," Mr,
Newiands said. "II has been coterml.
nous with Dcinociatle control of legisla
tion. It will not do to charge this to
the Kurnpean war. That wai, though
Injurious to Ameilcau trade In Its In
ception, haa since become a stimulant
futile, cowardly and unrlghteoui i,r,d
whlrh will unhesitatingly m.ik .my
needed ai rlllcu to uphold Atnei lean
standards of humanity and Justice-, only
that spirit will put this nation vvhei..
Il mil move effectively for tile woilj
ponce which We desire.
"The Wilson Administration bus ie
pudiiite.I the faith of 0ui forefather",
winch made th- American dig the sur-
flClel.t Itiolectlllll Of un Aoiei'fe.tti eil.
, izeii ntoitiiii the worl I. has suffered
American men. women Hnd children to
be cl.iughteied In .Mexico and on the
high seas, American propeiiy to lie de.
stio)eil, jial Auurliati liberty to tt.ivel
and to trade to be subject to the .illn-
' tiaty and lawless coeicion of foieign
beli'gere.ds
"It h.n ftood by while the law of
I uatmnc dlcnppe.il ed from the earth,
without adequate plotoctloli or effective
j le'lttunce. It Hist among Ameticaii
i Hilinlnlstiations has shown the supine
I spirit, whose cure consequence 1 th
I contempt of the wotld
I'eiiiile ,re I mpii t lenl.
"(Mr people) are besoming Impltlent
of leaders who bold that comfort, plus
perlty and material welfare ,i.e nlivo
honor, self.s.icrllice and n.itrlo' ism. We
aieed a reawakening of m older Allien.
! Miiiiii of our h-li f In those rhlngs that
I our country nnd our ll.ig ctaml tor.
"iiur people ate seeking Icidei ship
leadeisliip of the highest onlei and
most coui.igeous character: le.idersiup
that will draft to itcdf for the countiy's
bviiellt the unsilhsh and patrljtio cer
vt ec of Its ablest citizens They ate
demand. ng that principles and policies
Klmll be proclaimed and I'.iriled out by
a man who has the wImIoiii to foniul.tte
them and the manhood to ngat foi tliem.
"Keenly alive to this, vvii call the na
tional convention of tli piogressive
party to acseiiiblo In Chicago at tlie
same time the national convention of
Hie Uepubllcan party Is to assemble
there. Wn take this action believing
that the surest way to secure for our
country the. n quired leadership will lie
by having. If possible, both the Pro
gressive and Itepuldli-ali parties ehoo-e
tile same standard bearer ami tlie came
principles. Wo are contblent that the
I auk and tile of tho Itopublican party
and tlie large Independent vote of this
country will support such an effort.
"We pledge ourselves to approich the
lonculeiation of the ism s invoivin in
Mich an ellort without any de-cile to te-
Vive partisan bitterness If the Itepun
I In in convention is ie.-ponsiv e lo tliu
'patriotic si .ill that btotight the He.
' publican part) into being air! tli.u mid
it doni.naiii for h.ilt a c.-iiiur) . if it
meets Cils en-is in Hie spint of bio.id
IMtrtotiein that risen .ibove put .snncb.p
thu elloit for a i ominon le.uler'hip will
I In' Micceccful
onllilelioe In l.elliler.
-.Vc a result, when the conventions of
'the two partus adjourn, the cp.r.t of
Iiontlditiie In v.-torv foi the lea.lt r thtie
1st lei ted ,1 d li e pi .tn pies to Willi II lie
is , i.iiim.tti il wl 1 In itself go tar tovv.ml
i Insuring vi.'oi.v in November Slioul.l
the eport fall tlie respnnch bl.v for the
' lo-ult will t.ot ted on the Progress ve
ii.it il .onvint on. nor on the i.iiuo nun
i voitts who up oited Progn cclve can
i did. il- s in r.'l-.
"The), vv-'ion i.illel iipvn to do so. win
lis rl -in I ! "use to curretidet to p.utv
lll.l.-h s Th- lecpnislbil-t) will res
on other shoulders than i.ui. and tins
will be so jipp.uvm to the votirc of the
count!) a- to lecult in victory ror t. e
Niuhiii.it I'l-ogtessive p.utv in next fa.l s
elect till
"In ;ii. turning point in world bl-tnrv
wo wil. not siiili on details: we will
lav as I,. irticansh'p and prejudice
Hut We Will Hovel s'.invlid. f ti es- .'.u-
ciples for whn h we stand and h.ivo
M I We will follow on.)- a lead' -
w in we know elands fm them and ;
able to put them thtoiigh"
to piodtiction and cxpnit and tlie com.
mi nci tnent of the depre-smii antedated
the lluriipe.iu w.u and was conteinpo
raii his with 1 '.-nio. i atn- h-gi-iatioti te.
(.'aiding tin tatll'l, banking an I trade
"The ten-ill elections indicate that wi
will l,o in similar ilatnp-r at the coining
Pie-ldentlnl i It-it. ui unless tin- Mum.
pean w.u continues .mil makes the Prod,
dent's sagacious and Hi in h. nulling of
oiu foteigti .ifl.ilts the uverch ulim-.ng
icsije
"it is s.iiY to c.iy," win ned the Sena
tor, "thai tlie maiiuf.i'-tuiiiig, the hank,
ing and the l.itge cmporate nucleus
ate hostile lo the I lelim. nit c p.ilt) and
tli.it their omplo)oos nisi, aie p'cp.iilng
to thiow the. r w.igbt a.alnt It."
In speak. ng of 1 1. inin-i.iti.- I. ulslatlnn
Mr Newiands tutnorkcd , --.Minli of i
piob.ibl.v fell siiiuew Ii it choil ol the goal
we should ultimately reach, Inn ,t m;j
be tll.lt In the limited peilnil we went too
tsr ami ton fiiHt anil thus end iii,-i-t,
the whit Ie which carried tine.- i.-tornis
Theie was no in cc-sity tin tins, jm- n,e
opposing p.nty was not willing in ,,
tittle id tlie ilictitlice Ke l-olltellip ,i,.,
; nnd ifiiihi never ropro.u h us with mil
going fur enough.
"A i-onsidei ,ibl eperleiii-e in public
life, covering a pi nod of I went) -tluet,
' )eirs, lias cotrcinieil nio th.it no political
pa-ty can hope to lemiin in power which
1 adopts radical Insiead of evolutionary
, metliods of reform "
I'll r I IT llonril I I'ueil,
The reined v ciiggested bv Mr New.
lauds was the creation of a t'unr Ui.n-,1
vested with ceiiniii niithoili) by Con.
gloss
Dealing with lunklng I. glclalinn, Mr.
Newiands declined that insliad of pm!
viding come clmp.e method foi inoblll.
lirg Ihe banking loeivec of Slate ami
nitlon.il liinks under tho iniiind of ,,
non-pal tlcau ho.ud which woiihl gi-u.
U, ill) Wink out fiirlln-r tefoiii'M, Con.
gross wis liiietil upon e;is.iin,, will, h
aiai-miHl the hmiUc by Ihe laigein-s nf
the pioisisal.
SKMIIl.tllll H.OKlllX. LTD., -;in p. V.
I (JiilrCD.l, lineal Flmhl.t tniln tl.i slmrteat
Ifoeenbooril Atr Line lly , list Ilroiidway,
Con vein ion Set for Juno 7,
Dii.v liVpuhlieans Meet
in Cliieaco.
MI.'ST .UlALHAMATK
TO TI JIX OT'T WILSOX
Dciiiocriilic I. ule Callotl Un
patriotic and Cowardly
in War Crisis.
J'AKTIKSCAX AOKKK
OX KIOHT CANDIDATE
j of the Colonel Said
to I5c Km hod icd in Hos
olution Taken.
Ciiii ico, ,lun. 11. In n "slralght-foi-vvnnl
stntemeiit to the American
'people." ai Mr. Perkins termed It, thai
i lYogrcsslve National Committee, in
ce.-dion nt the Congrrss lintel, opened
I the door in-night for the complete
I aiiinlgninatlon of the nepiibllciiri nnd
Progiesslve parties,
j The tlecl.-i ration llxen June 7 as th
,ilate of the Progresnlvc lintlonfll ron
vetitlnn, tlie entile n tlmt fixed by th
Kepublicans, nnd alco In Chicago.
It derliires for a rennhm nf Hie party
strength, tlie return of the Crngrrsilrea
to the Itepu bllciin fold. In order that tha
present hemorratlr Administration may
be turned out.
While the odli-.n! slal.ineiit. hold by
Honin of the generals t . t. "rlijHf,
I to duet mid nslieis to tishrs" page lit
the history of the Progressive party,
boars tli" siqnnttirf.'s of national com
mitteemen to the Chicago conference,
1 it Is titulerstooil to einl.iilv- exactly
I the 'views cnteitaliinl by c. Hoose
' volt.
Tllllt ttie Pfogl esves too wi'I not
Ind-t on tin nomination of c., Chimp.
volt I ,v th,. llepiibl.i an- ns the prlcn
of .iinilg.iitiiitinn wax the. cpes'lfiij
stlltllllellt of deotgo W. I'irklllH. Who
iirrangeil ihe cmfeietiii. io.il.iv- nnd
who was un, hi stood o upoti lc ex
cathedra with tesjieot t- Co.. Hoose
velt. Noeil tf f. It,,ff. (.t,
"He are all Imping." -ill, I Mr I'crLInc
with .It lllieriillnn. a s Hi,. ni nsiiiier men
look iln mii h. nurd.. "Hun imiii pnrtles
"111 iigrcc on .iiiii, t.,.. , i, ii, need nt
tie ri s.;irll) lu- vir. Itiiiiset ill,"
The leu pill pose of t , i II g-; thn
Plogf. csiv o iiKV.tltloll t., Cllliaui, tho
c.mi" we. k the It. 11111.' . aus m,.,.t u
.In no. It i. -aid. :s tn fur. e. if possible,
the iioiiiiii.ii-oii ,.f ci Ho.eevolt by
the lli'pol. hcitis. f tin v fail In till
ihoi will .ie, .pt s n,er Ileiuibll-
C.lll. is'el.iliv .Itpqlce llttclios.
.Iiim ,ii. w intuit- ceivind choices the.
, Plilgtl-ss-.ve lenileis b.ive s not yet
ll eiilisfil
"In th.s crieN of our i oiiinry," Mr.
Perl, lie furtlni i .Npl.niipil, "the ile
V'o optlletllH nt ti few Weeks liny radl-
cnllv i-hniue i v i t thttiu- It is now
null .lunii.it i. Th .iivi-ntmii will b
hi'lil in Juno IP. tli.u tun,, many
names might be iijiis.ili-tcij Nn on
1 cnii tell who titay ili ve!,ii us tlie- crisii
develop,. Hut I iepo.it we arc nil
luip.tig Hint l.oth p.ittiis ni.iy ngrc
nil Ihe same iiillili-ioli- "
Mr. Pi tkin-- him i.ireil that th
formal cinit nii'iit should bo taken at
lie- fine v.i no mill not i oniiiinitiu;
s-dllti I'llig between Co l.ioe inq !ti-te-nde.l
to lie there.
"Wo un etniplv open nnd frank with
tin' Hepuhoo.llle " be tldili il. "Our
I'llllllll)' CiillP'S lllcl. We bellevo It 11
ii. danger Wo requite Aim liiiinx to
ctfind together b.limd mil Icnleishlp.
Wo Impe for peine lioiwoni the old
p.lt-lies. We .-no willing to go li long
win tn Minno that reunion. Hut we
vvl'l not ciirroiuler pt nii iples. Tho
statement should bo nnd m that light,
nnd if ii tlioi" eiiti bo no niisiinder
htllllll.Ug ''
I. It, Heinle lo I nlle.
Put come insisted on reading between
tin- hues ill! one of the interpretations
giis.s.pe.l in the I'loiititi i m was
tli, it Col Hoosevelt, whi sent .1 message
of g-. cling in-tiny and ngiin einpliaslzed
p., p.lle.ll en as the blgge-l -Ksi,. Just
now, s I'l-.i-lv to clasp hinds witli thn
Kcpubll.-oti p.ut.v on the defencn nnd
hni or pi.1 "k-
i'lie I1oos.-m1u.iii riiii.li. is. s was i.icei
on the following points in the declara
tion :
Intel tin i inal law is humanity's
Mini nifeguar l and i 'v-ibr.ation's lit
bulwark
The Wll-nn dir. tiistr.,11.01 has re.
pildl.iled the failh of our foi efa thers,
which in. oh- the tiioi n- in II ig the uf
ticien' pi ote t.on of ,in American lit
7c iioiui'l the world
It his stifie-ed Ameilcau men.
vvoiikii and . liil lien to b cl.iughtereil
In Mesico and on the high se.is, Amei
liiin propeiiy to be destioved and
Ann" .can bbertv to tt.iM'i and trad
to b. cibjut to the ntldtrary and
law lew- i-oeii-.on of ficeign belhgi rent
It hi stood bv. while the law of
li.lllois dls.ippe.ue.l fiom the earth,
without adequate protect oi- effective
I essiuiu-e.
It tlicl. among AinoM. in ndmlnls
tr.it it'll., h is shown Ihe supine spirit,
whose sure I'linceipieni e is the con
tempt of the win Id
Vnl lira fled lit 'I', II,
M" Pi t kit si denied thai the draft of
Lie new deii. nation wns made by Col
Itoncevelt hluicelf and sent tn the Chi
cago conference for Incorporation In thn
fl
si.
ii
