A BOLT everybody who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, read?
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30,000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best IrCMnes in Washington.
AS first announced January I, 1916, Thf Herald
guarantee* Kill monev? wo-tii to th?? pur
chasers of article? advertised in the diflpiay column?
of this paper by any Washington merchant
(Cweatar hmrmukei Upon Rramett)
NO. 3375.
WEATHER* RAIN.
W*\J3HINGTON, D. C- WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12. 1916.
ONE CENT.
? ? ?? ??htMsjt'.f. a,?? rmHmtm **?.???|
T Weret* ? 1 ??UHIHI *TW< ? | ?.t?
BULL MOOSE AT
MEET ROOT FOR
G.O.P. ALLIANCE
National Progressive Commit
tee Willing to Sacrifice T. R.
if Harmony Can Be Had.
COLONEL URGES UNION
Says Forces Should Unite, Re
gardless of Party, to Oust
Democrats from Power.
DEFENSE TO BE PRIME ISSUE
Dates and Place of Bull Moose Con
vention S*me as Those Selected
by Republican Party.
Steam! Io Ihr Wuhinftoe HfTsM.
Chicago, Jan. 11?A? a political entity
thr Progressive Party will hare no ex
latence In th? nation campaign of Ml*
If the Republican grasp the olive branch
which ?aa proffered them today by
George W. Perkins and other Bull Moose
lesders In the meeting of the national
Progressive commltt? at Chl4-ago. ^
That the Progressives in their peace ad
vances are willing to forego a Presidential
nomination for Theodore Rooaevelt If
amalgamation and harmony can be
brought about thereby was revealed In
the following statement of Mr. Perkins;
made st the conclusion of the commit
tee's seasion:
Ht all are hopeful tbat both partl?ss
?siil astee upon somebody and It need
not necessarily be Mr. Roosevelt."
This remark waa made after Col. Roose
velt had sent a meesage to the commlt
tee In which he asked them to subor
dinate party to country and to Join
wtth other forces in waging a conflict to
oust the Democrats from control at the
National Caolta*.
'There la crying need." said the Col.. '
that we shall cast aside all purely
partisan considerations and disregard all
bat the vital issues afTMting the nation
al life, and shall attiva taiho!e-h<-artedly
for a sound Amerteanlem. which shall
Insist that every man who Is within our
borders shall be an American and noth
ing aloe."
Da4ee and Place Stasa.
Immediately after the mesaage was
feed the committee decided upon Chicago
?id June 7 as the place and time for
?olding a national convention. This Is
the date which tbe Republican National
Committee ha? ?fleeted for its 1?M 4?n
ventlon in Chicago.
Mr. Perkins during the evening en
larged upon his earlier ststemant by Is
suing another one. In which he defined
what he regards as the issues in the
coming campaign and the relation whlc
tbe Progressive following holds to them.
He reiterated the party declarations o??
lai-.', and then proclaimed the proposi
tion of national military and naval pre
paredness as the prime issue of the cam
paign thia year. .
?Because of the failure of the Wllaon
administration to deal adequately with
national honor and industrial welfare.
this country facet problema of a gr-aver
and more far-reaching i-onsequence thaa
any since the civil war.'* he ?aid.
"It haa stood by while the law of na
tions disappeared from the earth with
out adequate protests or resistance.''
The Perkins program of amalgamation
wa? not put through the committee
meeting without resistanw. It was only
when William FUnn. of Pennaylvania; H.
Y. C?cheme, of Wisconsin, and Willlan?
Allan White, of Kansas l.tty. came to
the assistance of the project that It was
accepted.
LOVCEN FALLS
TO AUSTRIANS
Montenegrin Stronghold Tak
en After Four Days of
Ktrious Fighting.
FORCES CLOSING IN UPON
GALLANT LITTLE ARMY
Austrians Press Forward from North j
and East While Bulgara
Advance from South.
Sfasciai Cabes to Tb? WtaUnftcsa Hssald.
London. Jan. U.?After four days of
furious attack? by land, supported by a
hurricane of uninterrupted fire from their
warships, the Austrians have captured
the Mont?n?grin stronghold of Lovcen.
Lovcen Is a heavily fortified mountain.
3.770 feet high, which dominated and
menaced the Austrian naval base st Cat
tarro, on the Adriatic It 1? only about
six andone-half miles west of Cettinje,
the Montenegrin capital, to which the
way is now practically open.
The Austrians and Bulgarians hav?
also captured the lassa important town of
Beran. another Montenegrin place, Tn?
Montenegrins confirm the loss of both
- ?-*?
It is evident however, that Monte
negro's gallant little army, aurrounded on
three ?Idea, 1? making It* laat stand In
the mcuntaln fastnesses
?asir?an? Pre?? (In
The Austrian troops are ?lowly and
steavdily pressing forward from the north
?nd east, while the Bulgara are advanc
ing from the ?oath.
A Rome dispatch tonight quotas an
[tallan military expert as saying:
"It is only a matter of time when the
Montenegrins will meet th? same fate aa
the Serbians."
The same dispatch add?:
"The situation Is fraught with danger
to Italy'? interest?. This Is admitted
rrankly by Qen. CorsU military expert
nf the Tribuna. He points out today
that the subjugation of Montenegro by
the Teutons and Bulgara and the captura
of Mount Lovcen will furniah Italy with
? difficult problem when it comea to a
final settlement."
Kitten Cause of
$2,000 Fire Lose
Children Use Matches in
. Search for Pet?Two
Homes Damaged.
A kitten caused a fire doing damage of
??.??? at 1731 and IT? Park road la?t nla;ht.
The flames originated In the basement of
1731. occupied by E W. Chatterton, chief
clerk of the Railway Mall Service and
spread to 173. the home of William Henry
White, an attorney.
? About 5-.SB o'clock four girl? of the
Chatterton family went Into the base
ment of their home for their kitten. The
eldest lighted the way with a match ana.
?aras followed by her sisters, the youngest
barely able to toddle. The pet waa found
and the children returned upstair?.
Later the family found the rear of the
bassement, an exterior wall and the roof
ln flam??. The biaza had spread to th?
roof of the White home. Several engin?,?
and truck companies fought the flames
more than an hour before they were un
der controt. The Chatterton horn? was
???jtted. the damage being .1.50?
Bread H?tions Still Limited.
?
Berlin (by wireless), Jan. 11?The Ger
man gevernment today canceled Its an
nounced program for the distribution of
larger quantities of bread. It was an
nounced that the original bread distribu
tion measure would remain In effect, but
that sufficient bread ration? for all hard
working persons would be provided.
Tiny Belgian Army Bravely
Holds Last Strip of Land
?Soldiers Stubbornly Protect Little Section of* Flanders, a
Land of ?Mud and Rain and Mists?the Bleakest
Spot on the Western Front.
By C. F BERTELLI
?oadal Calma ts Th. W?htn?toe B?rsli
With th? Belgian army In Flanders,
Jan. IL? At ttjon as one leaves Nleuport
town as dlatlniulsh^ from Nleuport
beach, which ia held by the French, and
travela to the southeast along what was
once th? Nleuport-Dlxmude Railroad, on?
meeta th? little Belgian army, aa stub
born at their work of protecting their
laat ?trip of ?jountry at In the epic day?
of Augut, ill?.
Its numbere are naturally secret, but
I can aay that every Belgian from 1?
years of age upward haa voluntarily re
sponded to King Albert ? call, and now
the unit la a wonderfully equipped, well
set up, snd compact little army, of tre
mendous value to the allies In the great
struggle against the invader.
Hera we enter a region of mud and
water?black mud. gray mud?mud that
clinga and clogs at you advance?mud
everywhere. The mud Is here as much of
aa aavamy aa the Teutona It la a strug
gle that never ceases.
'?vithout quettion Flanders la tat?
bleakest spot on the whole western
battle front. Durine; winter it reins
six daye out of eeren, and on the sev
enth a drenching sea-mist ls eure to
obscure the landscape.
The only artistic compensation for
?.he*? conditions are the sunsets, for
which Flanders is renowned.
Contrary to the French scheme of
trench building in a ripsaw design.
the Belgians have been forced by their !
arch-enemy, th? mud, to take advan- ?
tage of the old railroad for trencher ;
with the aspect of an unending, per
fectly straight line to the sQ?th east
as far as Diijnude. ?htrp it obliques
to the southwest along the Teer ca
nal, which It follows as far south as
Ypres.
During the past few months great
draining operations have been carried
out. It ia indeed remarkable how all
the troops have adapted themselves to!
a troglodyte life. They seem entire
ly indifferent as to what happens out- ?
side their own shelter. Their business
? U fiefcUnr, aad they tak? bo chancea '
The Washington Herald
- AND -
Th? Evening Star and The Sunday Star
Are the Only Two Newspapers of the Four Issued in Washington
, That are Members of the
AUDIT ?UREAU of CIRCULATIONS
The A. B. C. is an independent association that twice a year examines the ?cir
culation books of newspapers for the benefit of national and local advertisers. Its
board of control is made up of advertising men of national fame, who place millions
of dollars' worth of advertising, men who know how to get CIRCULATION FACTS.
The Two A. B. C. Papers in Washing
ton Carry the Bulk of the Advertising
_I_
Moran Pleads for Home Rule This Year
And Opposes Proposed School Changes
Chamber of Commerce Honors Its Officers with Re-election and Names Board of Directors.
Executive Asserts New Home Will Aid Capital and the Organization, Before
Annual Meeting, Asking for Fund to Help Bring Con
ventions to Washincton.
Patrick T. Moran wa? re-elected
president of the Chamber of Commerce
at Ita annual meeting at the Willard
last night. A. Leftwlch Sinclair was I
re-elected first vice president, and Al
bert Schultels was agat*n chosen second
vice president. The secretary and
treasurer will be aelected by the new
board of directors at Its first meeting.
The Chamber greeted with applause
a recommendation of President Moran
that the organization work for home !
rule for the people of the District dur- '
Ing 1916. Mr. Moran called attention
in his annual report to the stand taken
by the chamber againat the proposed
change In the school system, advocated by
the Commissioners.
"The action of the chamber on th?
question of the appointment of th? school
board IndicHtee the feelli.g cf our or
ganisation," said Mr. Moran, "which, '
accoriilng to the press. Is ?hared by many '?
other citisen?' bodies. It is on? phase of
our local affaire In which we ?je vitally
lntereeted."
ANXIETY FOR
BRITISH ARMY!
Force of 10,000 Troops Be-|
sieged by Turks in
Mesopotamia.
RELIEF CUT OFF BY ARMY
OF MUCH GREATER STRENGTH |
Two British Force?, Although Only |
Twenty Miles Apart, May Be
Unable to Unite.
Spedai Clbk to Tb? Wzshlngton Hnshl
Lendon, Jan. 11.?The B^ltlth public
swaited with anxiety tonight news of
the fate of Oen. Townshend'a 10.000 troops
beielged In Kut el Amara. Mesopotamia,
by the Turks.
The l^teW statement regarding the sit
uation falls to "relieve the anxiety. Gen.
Aylmer's column, which Is advancing to
the relief of Kut el Amara, Is confronted
by a Turkish army greatly superior In
numbers. It la evident a successful
Juncture of the two British forcee, al
though they are only twenty miles apart,
may prove a difficult mattar.
Dispatches from Constantinople quote
high Turkish officials as declaring Gen.
Townehend's force*, are doomed.
Advices frora? the eastern front to the
Turkish war office report the relief col
umn of 50,000. which set out for tCut el
Amara from Iman ail Cherbt, has been
checked after a furious battle. The Eng
lish lost heavily. The Turka took many
prisoners.
Turks are attacking the British posi
tions at Kut el Amara ceaselessly and
the town ls being bombarded night and
day.
Oen. Aylmar's troops are halted at
Sheik Said, some twenty-miles from Kut
el Amara, according to ? the latest ad
vlcea. But the halt Is declared duo to
weather conditions and the ne.-eesity of
removing the wounded by river.
Huerta Lapses Into Coma.
El Paso. Tex., Jan. 11.?Gen. Vic
toriano Huerta, former President ofj
Mexico, lapsed into a state of coma j
at 2:16 this afternoon following Ill
ness of several weeks and his physi
cians fear that he may not recover.
Hew Meuse Trenches for Germans.
Amsterdam, Jan. U.?The Germant are
digging new lines of trenches along the
Meuse and are constructing new forte at
certain points In the western theater of
war. ^
KlorMa?Saperle? Servi.? via Atlantic
Coast Une; "N. Y.' & Klurida Special"
lea vea 8:15 p. m. dally. S other ail-atael
trains dally. Ofllce. Ihm ?. Y. ??* nw?
?*??.
The following? director? were elected:
Cuno H. Rudolph, Joseph I. Weiler, D.
J. Kaufman. Dr. Lewis J. Battle.
Clarence P. King. Merritt O Chance,
Loui? Ottenberg, B. W. Guy, Charles J.
Bell aajd John G Capers.
Mr. Moran's re-election wa? forcaeted
by William F. Oude. fermer president,
who presented Mr. Morsa with a hand
some ?ravel when lie had concluded read
ing hi? annual report. Some wondered
why the chamber had waited until its
president was retiring from office be
fore presenting him with the instrument
of order, but Ave minuta? later he hasd
been re-elected, and then they realised
why the gavel had been given.
The gavel was made by Franklin A.
Whalen, superintendent of the Washing
ton e*tate ai Mount Vernon. and waa
can-eel from a magnatte-purpura tree
planted near aVnshlngton's horn? by Csen.
Lafayette In ???.
The report of Ralph W. Lee. treasurer,
ehowed a balance on hand of G7.064.91.
Mr. Moran. In hi? report, urged the
?FEAR CAUSED
MOHR CRIME*
Prosecurtor Says Killing of
Physician Was Carefully
Planned Crime.
JEALOUS WIFE ARRANGED IT
WITH EMPfcOYES, HE STATES
Asserts Crime Was Fixed for Saturday
Night Before It Happened.
Taking of Testimony Begun.
By SOPHIE TREADWELL.
Fperial to Tb? Washington Hcralrl.
Providence. Jan? 11.?An amastng
tracedy ln the. Monr case was presented
by the 8tate'? attorney in his opening
statement to the jury this afternoon.
This is the ?tory Attorney Abbot Philip?
told these twelve New England men:
Thst one night a few months ago, at
a place not twelve miles away, a wealthy
physician was ambushed snai murdered,
shot from the back, while his automobile
was ?topped by the side of a country
road. That the young woman who wa?
riding with hlms)was shot in the same
way. That, as ehe rose to her feet, she
fell, and as she tried to get up, ?he
was ?hot again. That all thi? happened
in the dark at the edge of a dense wood.
That It was done by two negro stable
boy?, and that these men did It because
a white woman promised them money
for the doing of it. And that the woman
was the murdered'man's wife. And that
the motives that led her to want this
done, were jealousy, cupidity, revenge
and fear.
Amassed for oa ?safaratar fight.
This 1? the case Rhode Ialand ?ay? tt
will prove against Elisabeth F Mohr.
Cecil Victor Brown, and Harry H Spell
man. While Its attorney told it. tha
woman accused ?at quietly, listening.
Only once did her face change expres
sion and thit was when Attorney Philip?
?aid' "Mlaa Burger, although seriously
wounded, recovered."
A particularly grewsome feature of the
?tory was Philips? assertion that the mur
der saraa arranged for the Saturday night
preceding: that the two stable boys were
at the same pis*-? in the road that night,
waiting, but that the crime did not hap
pen because the doctor's chauffeur *ped
by because the intended woman victim,
Emily Burger, waa not with the doctor
that night.
"We will ?how that Dr. and Mrs.
Mohr had lived apart since March, 1914.
We will show that ahe -was always
watching what was going on m her hus
band's home, especially wtth reference
to atlas Emily Burger, Ma housekeeper,
ot wnom aha wm Intamly Jeaioua.'?
chamber to support the movement
launched by Isaac Gana at tha last
meeting of the board of directors for the
erection of a permanent home for the
organization. He pointed to the rapidity
with which Waahlngton Is becoming a
convention city, and seid the chamber
should ha? ? a home Into which tt could
Invite the hundreds of guests It Invite?
to the city. He said In part
"Referring briefly to tome of the ?c
tlvlties of the chamber. I call to your
attention that In the first meeting after
you had honored roe by placing the gavel
in my hands, our chamber went on rec
ord in opposition to the Croaaer bill, then
pending, and gave as a reason for opposi
tion the very good ground that the Public
Utlllttea Commiaalon had not then been
?given a eu m?lent trial t
"After a careful Investigation and ex
amination of candidates, the eiiamber
freaented three medals to aa many Boy
Scouts of Washington who had demon
CONTC?CHJ OS tAQt TWO.
EVACUATION
IS DESCRIBED
Turks Shell Allies Heavily as
Forces Finally Leave Gal
lipoli Peninsula. .
RED LIGHT FLARE ALONG
LINE AS BIG GUNS BELCH
In Spite of Difficulties, Say? London
Pre?? Bureau, Troops .'Ml Em
barked in Early Morn.
Si-Hi: CiMs to Th? W??h:ni4."v. ?????.
London. Jan. 11.?Details of tbe final
evacuation of the Gallipoli Peninsula by
the Franco-British troops are furnished
In the following report of Gen. Sir ?..'has.
Monroe, given out by the official press
bureau tonight:
"The Turks attempted a heavy attack
en Helles on January 7. In the afternoon
th? trenches were continually shelled.
The bombardment wai Intense. The
Turks opened a heavy musketry fire
and later sprang two mines ornar the
western *Blrd Cage* of 'Fusilier Bluff.*
Tbe enemy fixed bayonets all along rhtr
front and the officers endeavored to make
their men assault our lines. They were
only successful opposite 'Fifth avenue'
of 'Fusilier Bluff.'
"The Staffordshire? repulsed their at
tack and a large proportion of the Turks
were killed or wounded. Our casualties
were five officers and one hundred and
thirty men killer or wounded Our aero
planes reported that the naval fire on
our left flsnk was most accurate and!
It Is probable that the enemy suffered
considerably.
"On the eighth the wind Increased
to thirty-five miles sn hour. From mid
night onwards lt was on'y possible to
use tho piers and lichtere. It wag im
possible to embark troops in the de
stroyers alongside the sunken ships
at W. Heach owing to the fact that
the connecting pie:3 had been washed
away. Embarkation at Gully Beach
was Impossible. One lighter went
ashore there and the remaining troops
had to march to W. Beach. In spite
of these difficulties the program at
W. and T. beac-ie? wa? completed at
2: SO a. m. The troops from Gully
Beach and all the beach partiel were
embarked at 4 a m
"A hostile submarine was reported
off Cap? Helles at 9 p. m. ?
"The Turkish trtillery was silent
during the whole nicht until the stores
were fired by the time fuse after the
evacuation had been completed. The
Turks then fired red lights nlo'iq* the
line and opened a heavy shelling of o?ir
beaches and the second line Lrenchea.
The shelling waa continu?d.tuntil altar
daybr?ak
EXPERT HITS
POWER PLAN
Engineer Weller Says Falls
Project Would Cost More
Than $24,000,000.
WOULD MEAN MANY MILLIONS
OVER GOVERNMENTS FIGURES
Speaker Claims Dam Will Flood Rail
way Tracki? of Three Roads if
It Is instructed.
That th* proposed power develop?
ment of the Potomac River to make It
furnish electricity for liarht and power
throughout the National Capital would
coat 124.817,006 complete. Instead of
the IH.OOC.OOO estimated In the report
of the government engineers, and that
the project wii entirely Impractical
from an economic standpoint, wer?
statements made by Francis R Weiler,
a civil and hydraulic engineer, last
night before the Washington branch
of the American Association of Elec
trical Engineers, tn the Cosmo? Club.
"Water power, to be practical from
the economic view, should be able to
compete with steam power, ought to
have a fairly high load demand, and
should Involve low cost of installation
and maintenance," said Mr Weiler
"The Great Falls power develop
ment project. In spit? of the war It
has been played up tn the press and
the widespread talk of an electric
city ?and cheap hydro-electric power.
hap failed to measure up to a single
one of these requirement??.**
Mr. Weiler showed by diagram and
facts from the reports of various en
gineers thst there were numerous er
rors ln the government report which
gave rise to the project and promis-sd
the harnessing of the Potomac River
to the task of making Washington a
smokeless industrial center. The main
errors, the speaker said, were due to
omljAone of ? tema, for which expendi
ture was required quite as surely aa
the cost of building the dam and pow
er house.
"In case the dam waa built, tt would
reault in flooding the tracka of the
Cabtn John line of the elactrie rail- J
way. the Baltimore and Ohio and the
Cheeapeak* and Ohio" said Mr Wei
ler. "More than S Of??*? acres of land '
would be flooded, and this would ra
?ult in land damage? not lncludad ln
the government estimate."
W?1 Fight Ford
On Peace Plans
Walter Durant to Use ?Millions
Against Peace Advo
cate, Report.
Detroit. Jan. IX?Henry Ford and Wal
ter Durant are the principals In a finan
cial struggle ln which millions of dollars
will be expended ln competition, accord
ing to men close to both magnates.
The two men hold exactly opposite
views on international affairs. Ford op
pose? wa* and all plans for wax, while
th? Dupont Powder Company la said to
be behind Durant
It la aaaerted that Durant ta about
to place on the market a car that will
compte with the Ford. Rumor now says
James Couaens. who r-eoently left the
Ford organisation, will be employed as
th?? chief director of this new organisa
tion, although Couxen's friends deny
thla.
Ford Is now maintaining a paid lobby
of newppajtenpen at Washington to fight
President Wilson's preparedness program
and it is ali-aged that these agents are
meeting ori-potdtion at ?very point from
Durant'a paid assenta
-
Lan W. Andertson Dl.
Baltimora?. Md., Jaxn U.?Lavs Worthins
Anderson, of (Cincinnati, a couatn of
Lar? Anderson, former I'nited Stata?
Minister to Belgium ?nd Ambassador tr
Japan. is a patient at John? Hopkins
Hospital. Mr. ADderaon's aunt. aira.
rharlee Andereon, I? a ?i?ter of Mr? Wil
liam Taft, wife of the former President
Ten Per Cent Rait* for 4.000
Baltimore. Md.. Jan. 11 ?Th? Maryland
Steel Company announced that on Feb
ruary 1 the company will '.ricrea** th?
pay of all it? workmen approximately H>
per cent. The whole force at Use plant,
about 4.000 men. will benefit by the ralese.
as It I? to include every department of
the plant. It was announced
Poincar? Under Heavy Fire.
Parle, Jan. 11?After a trip to th?
Brat line trenche? on th? northern
front President Poincar? returnee to
Paris today. While the French execu
tive wa? inspecting the advanced
trenches near Neuville St. Vaait in
Artois he as.? under heayy German ar
tillery ire
YoiUagitown Trouble Orer.
ISut Youngetown. Ohio., Jan. 11.?
At least too suore men went to work at
th? plant of th? Youngetown Sheet and
Tuba Company here thl? morning
There wa? no sign of trouble of any
kind.
143 Broken Killed in War.
Paria, Jan. 11.?The Figaro publishes '.
statistic? showing that 143 ?tork broker?
have been killed In battle since the war
15 AMERICANS KILLED
IN MASSACRE BY BAND
OF MEXICAN BANDITS
Victims, Including Three Englishmen Too,
Dragged from Train. Stripped of Clothes,
- Beaten, and Then are Executed.
VILLA'S SOLDIERS SUSPECTED
El Paso Citizens. Aroused Over Outrage. ?Send Wilson Letter
Criticising Watchful Waiting Policy?American ^??
Escaped Tells of the Shrieks and Shot?.
?I t? I ?>. 4? mat -s??.. R?
El Paso,-Jan. 11.?At least fifteen Arneri?cans were massacred b-v
Mexican bandits at Hie mining camp of Cusihuirachic, near San Isabel,
state of Chihuahua, early this morning, according to advice? reading
El Paso. Three Englishmen also are reported to have been killed.
Harry Scobell, British vi-ce consul at Chihuahua City tonight tele
graphed ?. M. Myles, British consul, here as follow? :
"Fifteen Americans and three English killed on a train near Saiu
Isabel, fifty mile west of here. Names and details follow later "
Collector of Customs Cobbs, ex-officio representative of the State
Department at El Paso, reported to Washington that the story of
the massacre had been confirmed. He gave no details.
F. C. Ewen. of Chihuahua City. In af
prttraU dlapatch tu ? 11 Alder-eon. trt
El Paa?. aaid:
?Tlfteen Americana were kilted by ?11
Uataa near Sao Iaabel. They were ?trip
ped of tlaatr eiothtna*. baatan, and then
executed. It la belle-red that O?o. Joae
Rodi-lrue? led the Vllllataa. Tb? foreign
colony la grmaiXy aroue?sd, ana an effort
1? beine made lo aend all foreiam women
and children to tbe United Statea. It la
reported that three Enarliahmen alao orer?
etecutec,, but thl? haa not b?aen con?
~rrnoA '
Hnri Shrl?-k? mat ?hot?.
Plrrt detail? of the maaaaer? were fnr
niabed by ?. ? Holmea a member of
-.he party, who eacaped and reached Chi
huahua City. OfBciala of the Mexican
Weatrrn Railway thl? afternoruj rv-e'v*?c
the fottewlnf free -?r:????'?' ? ?-? at
<_"hih4iahua City
"?. ? liounea a mesnoer of the party
who ftcaptd and T?arh*d he-? thl? morn
Inc. aald the train <n> boar-tied at 4
odo?**: thl? mtwntn* b? Ira armed v?
cmn? at Kilometer ?bou? fortv mile? ?tat
of b?sr# AccortJtn?- tc Holme? if-?? ?*???
teen American? Ir the iroup w?r^ order-ed
:c altfht Holme? hid Is a lav-ator? and
??'aped capture From hla hxUna; place
he wat(-hed hi? companion? atiljipiMl
naked by the bandKJ. who than ordered
hem to march toward th? weat Holme?
daecended from tb? train aad ma?? haata
to esc-ape In dia dSf-kMSc Ba had tasa
walk In? only a few rateate? whan ba
heard ehnek? and a faaIliade of abats
from th? direction taken by tb? t .nari
?sana and their eaptota"
Mr? ??Solme?. who Uvea hero, I?mt m
tetea-ram from her husband thl? after
noon teiiln? ot hia ari-lTal in Chlhualraa
City.
" ?? . > ? . . t> ...
Th? beltef prerall? here that th? baadtta
are a portion of tbe detachment of VHIa
?otdlera who left Caaaa Grand?? H4M
week? ago under Gen. Jo?? Rodrie*Dei to
rejoin Villa, who waa then ?opposed ts
b? In the mountain? around C"aeiS ulrt??
It arsa recalled here thl? afternoon br
many > sisal.sin who knew ViMa well
that be often deolorodL mt tbe last dsye
kitsresBtkm by the United State? ratbrr
submit to a Carra?as rale la Max
Many American? here who heve made
Mexico their hotsae for rear-i met the
following telecram te Pi sat dei* WQsoa
today
?The massant of nft???n more A meri
eus In Mexico ?how? the result ot s
w?chful waHln? policy"
ANOTHER FEATURE ADDED
TO THE JANUAR Y I6TH
ONE-CENT
SUNDAY HERALD
The circulation and advert? ?ing revenue from last SI'NT? AY'S
HERALD at the new ONE-CENT price ?auiT??ji?*d ?? ex??***^ticit?? j as
fa<-?, so insistent was the demand that ?**e were forced to ron off ?eveTal
thousand extra capi? without the comic sextions, which are of a ?? ? ??will.
printed m ad\-ance. And we are ?t???*; to hand this increasa-d resrenue right
back to the SUNDAY HERALD readers m the form of an extra aMei
weekly feature sejctifjn, namely.
A Full Newspafyer Size
FOUR-COLOR
MA G A ZI NE SEC ?? ? ?
This new addition now gj*res to the SUNDAY HERALD at ???
CENT a c?5unt?*T-attracti*>n for every feature of either of th? ?-jeher Sun
day morning newspapers fax which five cents is asked, including
?a fa-jur-ccaor Comic Section to appease the kit-Mie? and tboae older chil
dren of the family, like grandpa, who absolutely refuse to "mtxmr urn;'
?a four-page Sports Se<-tion, edited by "Bill" Peet, dean of Wa^kssg?]???
sport ?TTrterrs;
?all of those special features that contain real live news of iuuiel to
all WasJjringtoo?Julia Chandler Manx's Dramatic Departrraa-trt
of Society." Fraternal, Church. Army and ? a?
PLACE YOUR ORDER TODAY
Mail tavt fajtiajsartlaf caupoE or pboBe Mail 33?H'
??.
Daily, lc-Sunday, lc
DAILY AND SUNDAY
BY CARRIER. 30 CENTS A MONTH
SEND IN YOUR ORDER NOW.
NAME .
ADDRESS ...
