t
Urttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenm
THIS EDITION CONSISTS OP
32 l'AUJ&
A a kltnfl rtl Anil irAM.
Jrtfnew. In pages " to 32 auto
' mobllo nnd spor news.
vol. n-Nioa
PlIttADELPniA, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1D1C.
Cortnionr, 1010, bt tii rcai-io Lkdom Commit,
PRICE ONE CENT
FINANCIAL EDITION
r
' I. ' !-
'VIENNA DENIES
PERSIAATTACK;
CRISIS PASSED
Austrian Envoy Notifies U.
S. That Liiner was
Not Torpedoed
Rot sighted by u-boats
linger of Break Averted by
iDisavownl wnsnington win
Accept statement
WASHINGTON". Jan. 12.
?i..j inrlnv nnmircd the United
Iw.in that no Austrlnn submnrlno wns
IMf.iiiA for the sinking of tho Ilrltlsh
ISiwr Psrsla. with tho loss of two Amcrl-
Itft lives.
f Following receipt of Instruction from
fill Oovcrnmcnt. Ilnron Erich Zwlorllnek,
i'XiiatrWn Charge, went to tho Srnto De
IJLtimcnt nnd died tho formnl denial. Tho
!Kir tinted Hint tho Austrian Admiralty
'Mhas received reports from every one
t'lta submarines operating 111 tho Mcdl
!i...in, Mono was In Hie vicinity
libero tho Persia wns sunk nnd none
U the 1. nnd O. liner.
t The Austrian Government suggests tuni
?ilifr n mine or an Internal explosion
responsible for tho loss of tho l'ersla.
If-Thls dlwvownl lV Vienna removes nil
LWMtr of n nrenK wiwi .tusinn, mo
ErftdaTlts obtained by American Consuls
Jffom tho Tcrsla sun-lvors stnto that no
iubmsrlnc wns seen nnd left nmple room
or reasonable doubt Hint the disaster
w& causca oy a suoiimrnic. ,, tiniunKiuu
nrlll nccept tho AURtrlnn statement wlth
feiit reservation, offlclnls snld thl8 nftcr-
Isoon.
GREAT EXCITEMENT
WlIElf JOE'S BUSY BEE'
CORNER IS BURNED
' Squawking Chickens, Kippered
'. Herring, Eggs, Furniture,
A ' Pickles nnd Crying Women
'-- ' T-tTivirl -in Gfvnnf
(MANY WOMEN faint
t'Joe's Busy lice" cornor' was burned
to Ui cround todny nnd pandemonium
Knlsned In tho neighborhood for hours.
bftnsJind roosters rnn squawking nnd
Mucking between tho feet of the crowd
: garnered. xiarrci ui iii,uici n.
"atandlnir on tho navement In front
r'"th6 fUh markets -wore Upset nnd
yjtht over by hungry dogs.
INshriins full of eggs were upset by
prt puihlng crowds. Furniture was
ItrM&ed out of th'o houses nil along tho
Mtreet, Old women too feeble to hobble
nritars, shrieked for help from top
for while fat policemen tried to
H)lnney" up the awning poles nnd rescue
Wm. Hysterical women rainteu, engine
S90J8 oundca, uorses siampcucu, nu
i confusion.
t Fire In tho clear and light lunch shop
IK Joseph Moskovltz. 1150 South 7th street,
Urted all the excitement. It was badly
itmaged hi IT. minutes. The chicken
F9r of Raphael Korn, 1132 South 7th
tUftt, was also badly damaged. Soma
jof, his dressed chickens were fried as
, t'SJ hung on hooks when tho flrn hrokn
0irough.
BMwls of eggs in Ico were hnrdboiled
Ktn the ie'e melted. On the other side
tithe' "Busy Ree" was a plumbing and
Uitr atore. The odor of burning- rub-
wynattresses was next to unbearable.
Ejirt. MlnnlA Mnspnvlts. WAnt for n wntL-
Pjft her son Sammy, threo years old,
Wi '"he had closed the store, which Is
i uuj nrst noor of a three-story brick
Ming, a few minutes after she had
wine one rusiieu up and told her that
r R0U8A Wfln nn flr. Whan nha eJin.
ij tomes sho became hysterical and
I5rl tainted. In the house wns a lot
is . furalfni. fio it.. ,....... .1- i i
pi---'. .'h it-la. rfiudi;uvHA liatl
IWf"! last week In New York. Much of
Wjwaa Imported, she said.
i?r the atore of Samuel Israellt. HtS
; (in street, slept a one-year-old boy.
Uecman Ttlv. nt tiiA fin nt.'i ninbtn.nn
tUon, tried to climb up an awn-
t .u. w rescue tlie baby, but could not
?-MNftt IL RVA.n1 ntl.0- ntlAnAn .iAJ
fc?.!., -" .-... u.uct ijumciiicii Mint
2"rab, too, but all failed. Finally, some
ICiV ' '" ,ne door and brought the
("y down unharmed.
If THE WRATTTF.R
fe)mpblle dealers are as a class the
r",n veriKins on earth. We state that
MiMlMlon arrived at this morning-.
ii kIi """"-""-n ot thera up until that
-.... o. uoay or persons entirely scr-
u 7 -.....,. noil) IllUia VA-JCll-
JL "" taelous than any Infection we
-r ,no IUCK ttieml uvea
UM7.a1wUh soul so "JeaU who never
H14UI hllH aalrl I.I.J l l -I.
I for an automobller And what man
ere Whl Urnn1.l .. l. l.l . .-
r tm. 'or.one -n this weather. You
-Ju ii Ti1" aDout It, but we dare
fruSrv ntu a" eJtDeflnient, Vlait the
Lmidt ;;"" ,uur et slopping like a
J,-JTO( ipopges and the water from
iSt iii. c .B down the back t yur
i mi Jr:" """ one ot these Inclosed
I tohi?Mre 'our, traveling from
4..V . '. """oriaoiy ensconced on
it tTV ?m wl,ter'd 8eats herein.
...
FntfPnA en
fr ' JfMWtlphia and vicinity
47 fk;jYw?hmowea. w
niffftt; fresh east shifting
fcJiA ,J" tv west WUWS.
"jM., see page T.
tQW ANH FOUND
'?wS1 ?,X ?u ""-. Initial, n.
!. 8turdl . llvrr 'ob "nd guard atV
"TV i.Jl,A.n Terrauwt. on Hrw.
"fcptont )nu SOT. ""' ""-
iH:!Xl SaturJa ir...ii .Z. .!,..
irfifoad ,n7 -Tf -:--""r.-., "ir."","r
i-yta am iii-irT. Vi..". "i-E?.
W: uSi.i'tr iWuri1- rtu" to m5-
fU-toi themuut. no queatiotu.
tf.' tiS.1''lrV' ..- r In
in uii. -..'.jr CMmutr Jatiuarv 1.
tUJFlinw. "v' oroocn. mwaru.
w riunvj'i'f "'2 .t&wrtJ',i;itu?n?
'" "S L.VI.. Ul illfBlUUl
?vmtei.Ait
94 Paget 13. if and It
POISON "TYPEWUITEU" NOTES
ATTACK TOWN'S OFFICIALS
Olyphnnt Councllmen Accuser! of
Mnny Mornl Lapses
SCnANTOr?, I'n., Jan. 12.-Mcmbers of
Council nnd other borough officials of
Olyphnnt, six miles from this city, have
been thrown Into n turmoil by the ap
penrnnco of "poison typewriter" letters
In which they nro nccused of nrlous
moral lapses.
Burgess John Mahon and Controller
Thomas Hannhuo nre tho main targets,
while tho "organization" members of the
Council come In for n shnre of the abuse.
Kven the. wives of some of the men nro
abused, rtiul detnlls of how tho men spent
their time-on a recent Junket to New
York nro used ns tho basis of the nttack.
tlostal Inspectors are investigating,
AS BULGARS PUSH
UPON SALONICA
Serbian. Peasants Herald
Retreat of Allies Greek
City a Woeful Picture
FARMS AND HOMES LOST
follou'liio I? tlir fittt of neirn Instal
ments of one of the moit piliplMfl itnr
rntlun nf the u-nr, In irilri ll'lHlnin O.
Shrphcnl, Vnllcil Pms corrmpondent ii-tlh
the Allied nrmie? In the Ilalknns, nli
the flrtt cloic-np ilctiire of the .Itllra'
retrent from Serbia. It uni pntint u the
censors only tinrf.T pledge that It imuld
not he cabled, but uonfa be ttent to .Vrto
3'orfc hi mall, to make sure flint the rnemy
alioiiM wot prot by any information It
contnfnfrt.
By WILLIAM G. SHEPHERD
SALONICA. Dec. II.
For nlno dnys I lmvo been watching the
Salonlca retreat of the Alllc3.
From the front trenches back to tho
harbor of Snlunlca, a strip of land CO miles
wide, I liavo seen the thousands ot dem
onstrations nnd tokens of retirement.
I have talked to General Sarrail, leader
ot tho allied forces here, nnd to General
Baillaud, In tho field, to majors, cap
tains and privates of both the French and
British forces, nnd they hnvo nioro or
less admitted that n retreat la under
wny. But ono man whomI believe more
than all the War Departments nnd Chan
cellories of Kuropo Is the mnn. who, with
Ills family and his few household goods,
loaded on a little rattling wngon, hauled
by Btecrs, Is coming to Salonlca today.
Ho Is hero for the first time: ho Is hero
In hundreds; In all the phautnsmngoria
of wngons, horses, steers, motor busses
nnd llmouslnct which till the foggy wa
ter front streets of Salonlca today, lie
lends a now and sombre color to the
brown of the Greek, the gray1 of tho
French, tho khaki ot the British and the
green of tho Serbian aoldtara. 'i
He has done little talking. Ills very
prcaenco here with his dejected family
and his pitiful little possessions speak,
louder than anythlpg ho couIf sny. He Is
a refugee from Serbia. Not from north
ern Serbia, whoro tho Germans and Aus
trlnns hnvo been 'sweeping Serbia clean,
but from the Serbian soil that borders on
Greece, oli)y 20 miles from hc.re. The Ger
mans and Austrlans have not driven him
out from his home; It Is tho wol-k of the
Bulgarians.
The patter of his oxeirs feet nnd the
creak of the rough wheels if his wagon,
say louder than any communique or any
nice words of generals that the Bulgn-
Contlnurd nil 1'nge l'nur, Column Tno
$1,000,000 MUNITION COMPANY
Incorporated at Dover, Del., by New
York Men
DOVen. Del., Jan. 12. The Vulcan Ma
chine Company. Incorporated to engage In
the manufacture and 'sale of war muni
tions of ail kinds. Including guns, cannon,
shrapnel and war ordnance of every de
scription, was Incorporated at tho State
Department hero today with a capital
stock of Jl.OOO.OO).
The Incorporators were George W. Bal
lan, W. J. Smith, Thomas K. Ottls and
James C. Nugent, of New York city.
President to Speak on Preparedness
WASHINGTON, Jan. 12. President
Wilson will speak before the United
States Chamber of Commerce In this city
on February 10. with preparedness ns his
theme. He accepted an Invitation today.
FIFTH EXPLOSION IN
48HOURSATDUPONfS
"Flare" at Carney's Point and
,Blast at Hagley Yard Called'
Coincidence by Officials
WILMINGTON, Del., Jan. l!.-Two
more explosions, making five Inside of S
hours, have agitated officials of thedu
Pont Powder Company, though they de
clare that both were accidental. The first
was a flare at Carney's Tolnt In the
house where the powder is pressed dry.
The powder Is run Into a drying tunnel
In cars and in some way 13 cars contain
ing about a ton each were burned. It
simply made a flare and was all over.
The loss was confined to the green
powder, and as no noise waa made noth
ing was known of the accident until to
day, though it occurred yesterday,
Early this morning there was another
blast In u pellet mill at Hagley Yard and
., man waa knocked down, but not In
lured? It was In a mill where powder
was being 6lal In a barrel and only
Ave pounds ent off. It made little nols..
Official declare that both were accidents
ana the fact that five have occurred since
", Monday morning U. merely coin
cldence. '
Four Burned to Death
SCHENECTADY. W- Y.. Jn, 12.-Four
Demons dead, three serloualy, If not wor
Ully hurt, and four lea. seriously In
lured was the toll of a are In a rooming
house in the centre of the city la.t night.
The dead are Csptain John E. Uarnaby.
M tears old. ot Delaware County: Mrs.
C J Berry. bU daughter. t Little FUta.
Mrs Joslah Still, another daughter, and
wife ot the. Key Jlh SlUl of Brook
ly". Pa-, and Mr James 11. Sherman.
1 "ears W. ethr of the owner of the
place.
pBBBBBB pS"u 'W -ft? H
WILLIAM H. HALL
Governor IJnimbauRh this after
noon announced the appointment
of Mr. Dull ns his private secre
tary, to fill tho vacancy caused by
the death of .Tames S. Hiatt. Mr.
Hail is former Chief of the Bu
reau of City Property.
DU PONT OUSTING
ROUSES NEW FOE
FOR DIRECTORATE
Francis I. du Pont Asks to
Join Suit Against Se
curities Company
STOCKHOLDERS IN ARMS
WILMINGTON, Pel., Jan. U-Uildencc
that the stockholders ot H. I. du I'ont do
Nemours and Company intend to register
n vigorous protest ngainst tho action of
the hoard of directors In ousting Alfred,
1. du Pont from tho vlco presidency ot
that $JI0.0O0.00n corporation wns seen tu
duy when Francis I. du I'ont. ot Wilming
ton, u trusteo for tho estate nf Francis
G. du Point, comprising mnny thousand
shares ot common stock in the powdor
company, today petitioned tho United
States District Court for pei mission to
become ix party plaintiff In tho sult-
agalnst tho du rotnt Securities Company
and the 12 directors ot K, I. du I'ont tie
Nemours and Company, who me alleged
to havo ncwulred fraudulently all the
holdings formerly owned by T. Coleman
du Pont. John O. Johnson Is attorney
for Francis I. du Pont.
As Lrtiest du Pont, another trusteo for
tho estate of Francis G. du I'ont, re
ccntlj placed n similar petition with the
court It Is thought that within a few
days tho -trustees will file nn Interven
tion petition on behalf of tho estate.
Tho only other trustee Is A. Felix
du Pont, one of tho Individual defend
ants In tho suit, nnd 'It Is certain that
lie will vigorously piotcst tho entrance of
the estate Into tho suit as a complainant,
but in this event his vote will be over
ruled by two to one.
Tho Intervention petition (lied today is
the sixth of Its kind, nnd Is especially
significant hi that It comes on the heels
of tho announcement thnt the directors
of the powder company hnd deposed Al
fred I. du I'ont from the vlco presidency
and his position on the Finance Commit
tee of the company.
Tho 12 directors of the powder com
pany who are defendants in the suit
comprise a majority of the board of di
rectors, and It Is generally believed here
that at the special adjourned meeting
of the board held Monday Alfred I. du
Pout announced his intention of becom
ing a party to the suit against the se
curities company and tho defendant di
rectors of the powder company unless
they agreed to disorganize the holding
company. '
In any event, on that day Alfred I. du
Pont tiled his .Intervention petition with
the court, and yesterday tho anuouncc-
Contliiued on I'lige l'nur. Column One
WEATHER CONDITIONS
PUZZLE FORECASTERS
Mercury Bobs Up and Down
Throughout East Cold to
Come With Clear Skies
Weather Bureau officials are somewhat
puzzled by the peculiar conditions now
existing In this city and throughout the
country. It is not unusual at this time
of the year to have violent storms, nc
cordlng to Forecaster Bliss, but It la
unusual to have such a wide variance In
the temperature on. such short notice,
Last night the weather conditions were
almost "summery," the thermometer
going to 51 at Its highest point. Then
there was a gradual drop until It regis
tered 23 today at 7 o'clock. Again it
changed Its tactics and started upward,
and the Weather Bureau predicts that the
lowest temperature tonight will be 40 de
grees. After the rain storm which Is
sweeping northeast from the Ohio valley
passes, it Is believed that the thermom
eter will go down again, and colder
weather Is predicted for tomorrow night.
In pointing out the peculiar conditions,
Mr. Bliss said that certain portions of the
Lakes States had been visited by the
worst storms In many years, In Chicago,
according to dispatches, the city waa In
the grip of a heavy snowstorm last night
which has changed to rain today.
Mr. Bliss said that at Little Rock, Ark.,
the temperature s TO degrees, while at
Wichita, Kan . barely 200 miles to the
northwest, the temperature was 2 degrees
below zero.
Varying temperatures were reported all
along tho Hne to North Dakota, where Mt
I 40 degrees below zero, while at Have,
Montana, it was 13 below In Alberta.
Canada. 58 degrees below; was reported.
The Kiiilern States, however, reported
very mild weather It will be even
milder until the rainstorm, which
farted In tbe Southwestern States, passes,
wheu it ia believed that the winds, will
shift am carry some of U sM wnHw
devm from the northwest.
I
$9000 TO LIGHT
CITY HALL ASKED
IN NEW SCHEME
Chief McLaughlin Works
Out Plan Suggested by
Evening Ledger
FLOOD OF LIGHT ON BILLY
Newest Devices Arranged for
Grand Nightly Illumina
tion of Hall
Director of Public Safety Wilson today
received from James F. McLnUghltn. thief
ot the L'loctrlcat Bureau, the Utler'a plans
for the nightly lighting of tho City Hall,
first suggested to him by tho KvENtNO
LKtKiKH and "O K.'d" by Mayor Smith.
The plans call for a total original In
vestment (to he permanent) of $3000 nnd a
nightly expense of operating of J37.K).
The finest effect In the plnns will he
built around the statue of Billy l'enn.
There won't bo n light showing on that
venerable gentleman, but ho will shine
brilliantly In n flood ot white light.
This will bo Introduced by what Is
known ns the "Hood system" ot light
ing. Two hundred nnd fifty flood lights will
be introduced for tills purpose. Of thnt
number 220 will be built on tho roof of
City Hall; 30 will bo on the Mnsonlc
'Temple. These reflectors will be so
shaded as to make n perfect blend and
not one shadow will creep In between
them. It tnkes a scientific nicety to get
this effect. When It la In operation a
literal flood of white light will shed
Us radiant splendor around Billy, nnd
he will stnnd out with such a punch
thnt ono will be able to see him for
miles nnd miles around.
The rest ,of the building, too. will be
outlined all In white. "Colored lights."
says Chief McLaughlin, "are provincial."
Tho building will be outlined In nit Its
wnlls nnd gutters nnd towers; "a rcnl
outline," nccordlng to Chief McLaughlin,
so that Its contour will hit ono from
every ono of the four sides.
It will he a big Improvement over the
Now Year eve scheme, which heretofore
has served ns tho only model Philadelphia
has had. Thcio will be no vacant spaces,
ns that idea peimltted, hut every outline
will be tilled In and every line shown.
Chief McLaughlin said that "there
won't be anything like It In the world."
! said It would be artistic as well ns
pncllcal. By that he meant that In tho
building of the plpo system arrangements
woult) ho madi to get special effects
whenover tho occasion warranted, such
as the holding of a big convention here,
or the like.
Much of the present equipment will
b? replaced with really, parmapent, equip
ment. "The wlro tube will be replaced
by Iron pines, which will last for all
.tj!ueunie thla.tdea wlU mnrk-411 changes.
The cost of the operation is figured on a
six-hour basis per nlghti which will prob
ably "o from S p. rn, until Is p. m. Mayor
Smith will determine this question Inter
on. He will decldo alto whether Councils
will bo asked for n.lump sum of $0000 to
cover tho Installation or whether the
amount will be taken out of the Depart
ment of Public Snfety appropriation, that
being tho department under which ,tho
electrical Bureau comes.
Daughter Identifies Woman's Body
A daughter today, In on undertaking
establishment In Berlin, N. J., Identified
tho body of nn aged woman who had
been killed by a Pennsylvania Ilallrond
train as that of her mother. The wom
an's head was badly cut and both legs
hnd been severed, the was Mrs. Mary
Ferguson, 72 ears old. of Atco. N. J.
The accident occurred early Tuesday
meiii.ng. following n visit by Mrs. Fer
guson to this city. She took the mid
night train from this city, which Is duo
at Atco at 1 p. in. The body was found
on the tracks of the Pennsylvania Ball
loail about 100 yards from the station.
M.'iny Cigar Factories Closed
LANCASTER. a.. Jan. 12. A report
Just Issued shows that during the lust
month 53 cigar factories, some of good
size, mostly In Lancaster and York
counties, have gone out of existence In
the Ninth Internal Ilovenue District for
various causes. Within the last two
years the number of vlgar factories In
the district have dropped from 1700 to
1200. During tho last month 40 leaf to
bacco dealers have quit, mostly because
their old goods were sold out and the
prices of the new crop were too high for
possible profits.
CEHIGNEMINACCIATA
DA F0RZE AUSTRIACHE
II Lovcen E' Stato Espugnato.
Re VUtox-io Torna Improv-
visamente a Roma
Gl austrlacl hanno conqulstato II Monte
Lovcen, die domlna Cattaro e Cetttnge e
marclapo ora contro la capltale del
Montenegro. Anche II piccolo erolco regno
dt r Nicola cade coal' sotto la tempora
nea dqmlnaslone delle forze teutonlche,
dopo Una reslstenza che ebbe eptsodll
erolcl, e senza che gll alleatl abblano
potuto o voluto dlfendere come si doveva
una pqilzlone che vlene Indubblamente a
rafforzare l'Austrla neU'Adrlnttcp, a
darle se nou una nuova base navale, la
stcurezza dt una base che poteva da un
momento all'altro essere mlnacclata
serlamente dal Monte Lovcen quando
quest? era nelle manl dal montenegrlnl e
g alleatl poteyano qulndl prendervl
poalxlone llberamente.
II generate Cadonia annuncia plccole
azlonl dl repartl d fanterla nell'alta valle
del Cordevole ed azlonl dl artlgllcrla
aul fronte dell'Isonzo e nel settore dl
Rovereto, Nulla dl Importance, pero',
Re Vittorlo Emmanuele e' tomato Inat
teso a Roma, dove gll preparavano un
entualastlpo rlcevlmento. SI Ignora
quando egll rltornera' at fronte dl bat
tpglla. (Leggere in. 4a paglna la ultime
e. plu' dettagliate. notlzlevsulla guerra. In
ltallano.)
Rescues Child From Fire
Tb prompt action of a motorcycle po
liceman today probably aoved the life pf
Ida Pacelll, 3 years old. who wag badly
burned when ahe played around the
kitchen rtoya In her lipmc u. 1130 Alder
atreat. Policeman Leldjf Jlted the burned
child to his machine. ma carried her
under IlJ' arn w"h one hand while be
toda at high, rate of pd. guiding hi
maehlce with on band, to the St Agnea
oMai, 'f JHtta glr wag ImrneO.
abewt fc, ck; iM hand.
17 U. S. CITIZENS
AND ONE BRITON
SHOT MEXICO
Villa Personally Directed
Massacre of Mining Men,
Reports State
ONE AMERICAN ESCAPES
Victims Taken From Train,
Beaten, Tortured and Then
Put to Death
List of Killed in Murder
of Mining Men in Mexico
(ImrteK II. Wntson. aged II, ( l
Angriest arnrral mnimgrr of the Cnsl
Mining Cnmitmix, n Dilcago rnrimrallnn.
W, .1. M'nllarr. ngrd 3.1. of I'.l 1 no
mine snnrrlnlrnilrnt mmlrrd by widow
unit Inn children
M. II. Itnmrrro, of I'.l I'm mm nreomilnnt
for Cnl Mining Comiianri mirtlted by
widow. . ,
T. M. Rvnns, ngnl S8 storekrrper for
Cul .Mining Company.
C. A. I'rlngle. agrd .1. of Ran l'rnn
rlxml nn employe of Cnsl .Mining torn-
''""iBiirlrr Andrrson, iigrd 2S. of Kl rnsoj
n rlrrl.
II. P. Mrllnltnn, Bgnl 21 1 rrretry In
Chnrles II. WnKon.
Aleinmlrr Ilntl. of hntigln. Ariz.) rm
plnrrd by Cul Mining I'ompnnr.
Chnrlrs IVoillrlgli, nf Hlslirr. Arlt.t em
plntril by Cnl Mining I'nnnwny.
I J. I.. Ilntilnnoil, ngrd .TV of I.I l'nnt
nonirr for Cnl .Mining Company! nr
hnl lir widow.
W. IV. New mnn. ngrd SS. of I.I Pnsol n
mining rnglnrrr: MiMlrrd by widow.
II. C. Ilir, nf Miami, Arli.t emplojrd
Cnsl Mining Compnnr. . .
.1. A. Ailmns, nl Kl I'nunt employed hy
by Cnl Mining Conumny.
II. II, Simmons, employed by Cnil Min
ing Company.
W. II. I'mrrr, ngrd SO. of I.o Angrlrsi
mining rnalnrrrs Minltrd by widow nnd
thrre rblldrrn.
.1. W. IVnon. of i:i I'nsni rmployril by
('ml Mining Company. . .
II. '. I'oy. rmplnyrd by Ciwl Mining
Company. . ,
.Urr Cniirli, llrttinh mibjrrt. ngrd 43;
rmployril by Cnsl .Mining Company.
EL t'ASO. Tex. Jnn 12. Francisco Villa
personally gavo the order thnt resulted
In the massnero of 17 Americans nnd 1
nritlsh subject who w-.re taken from a
train In tile hills west of Chihuahua,
Mcx., Monday morning, nnd brutally put
to death, according to reports thnt
reached tho bonier early today.
These stated that General Villa, nt tho
head of 15 men, signaled the train to top.
ordered the arrest of nil Americans nnd
the two British subjects on board nnd 10
minutes Inter ordered that nil tho pris
oner be shot.
Tho Mexican soldiers lined their pris
oners up alongside the train, stripped
each of his clothing, beating and tortur
ing those who U'ero slow to--obey com
mands, and then shot the entlro group to
death,. After tho foreigners had been
massacred the soldiers looted the, train
systematically.
They am reported to have gotten :t,
000 In currency nnd a large quantity ot
supplies owned by th American Hmelt
Ing nnd Iteflnlng Company, which were
being transported to the company's mines.
It is presumed that the supplies will bo
used to feed the army which fjeneral
Villa Is concentrating about Torreon.
Their work of matiuicro and looting
completed, the Moxlcnns rode into tho
hills that border the railway line. It
was i, ore than IS hours l.ittr that tho
first it .vs of tho mnssatre reached C'ar
raiiZK ofnclnls and by thnt tlmo the band
had made good its escape.
Thomas 11. Holmes, nn American citi
zen, was tho only foreigner on board who
escaped death, ns far ns could be learned
from the ndvlces that reached hero early
today. Two versions of his escape came
to El Paso. Ono was that he hid In a
lavatory on the train, where h heard the
Continued on Page lire. Column One
CONGRESSIONAL POST
AWARDED TO GRAHAM
Pennsylvania Delegation Elects
Committeeman Vare
Assails Penrose
WASHINGTON, Jan. 1-. Hepiesentii
tlve George S. Graham, of Philadelphia,
today was elected a member of the Na
tional Republican Congressional Com
mittee, representing Pennsylvania, ns the
result of the compromise effected last
week by the waning factions, which
came to a deadlock over the candhlai-les
ot Representative E. It. Kless, of the
Vare faction, and Representative Chnrles
Rowland, of the I'enrose faction.
The meeting today was all harmony
on Its surface, but political peace In Re
publican politics is not yet nt bund. 7hls
was mndo apparent In a speech jnado y
Representative William ,S. Vare. who
made the motion nominating Mr. Graham.
This motion was seconded by Representa.
tles Kless and Rowland.
Representative Vare declared that Gov
ernor Brumbaugh was the actual leader
of Pennsylvania, having received 75.000
more votes than Penrose in the 1SH elec
tion. He decried the Injection of any out
side Influence in the election of tho
delegation, and denounced the activities
of Penrose, and especially the long hand
of the liquor influences that was silently
put forth In tho recent light in the In
terest of Rowland.
The keynote of his speech was that
Governor Brumbaugh and not Senator
Penrose was the Republican leader of
Pennsylvania, having come o that place
through the votes of the people. While
his speech was not bellicose, it was not
friendly.
The mention by Vare that liquor In
terests had been potential In the tight
against Kless, caused another clash ot
the respective factions. Representative
Moore, Coleman and Garland vehement!)
denied that there was an truth in such
a remark and deprecated the speech, say
ing that such talk would not lead to
harmopy In the delegation.
The election was accomplished without
any speech-making and Mr. Graham was
chosen without a dUaenliug vote. It was
after this, when It waa thought that there
would be conflict like last week, that Mr.
Vare made his liquor speech, and the
delegation was again plunged In a 15
mlnute war.
Woman of 60 Struck by Car
Mrs. Hannah Murphy. 60 years, old. of
Mohans court, was knocked down bj a
Wharton street trolley car today at G.ay'j
Ferry road and Catharine t eet, while
crossing the street.
EXTRA!
UNIVERSITY FRESHMAN KILLED
IN BOWL FIGHT THIS AFTERNOON
William Llfson, a freshman in tho arts nnd science course
at the University of Pennsylvania, was killed during tho bowl
fight on Museum Field, 34th and Lombard streets, this after
noon. Tho dead boy was zo years om ana a resident or Eliza
beth, N. J.
W. H. BALL PRIVATE SECRETARY TO GOVERNOR
William H. Ball, former Chief of the Bureau of City Prop
erty, wns todny appointed private secretary to the Governor to
fill the vacancy caused by the death of James S. Hiatt.
EMBARGO ON SHIPMENTS TO PHILADELPHIA
OALVUSTON, Texas, Jnn. 12. Tho Southern Steamship Company today
declared nn embargo ugnlnst north-bound shipments of any nature from Texas
Clly to I'hilndrlphln, Shipments will bo nccopted at tho owner's risk.
CROWN PRINCE RECALLED TO ACT AS REGENT, RUMOR
HOME, Jnn. 12. t'nconllrmed ndvlces from Swiss sources today reported
that tho German Crown I'rlnco has been recalled to Uerlln, probably to assume
tho regency on account of tho Knlsor's Illness. It wns stated thnt the reports'
reached Switzerland directly from Uerlln.
MILLION ARMENIANS VICTIMS OF TURK MASSACRES
BOSTON, Jnn. 12. Tho Re,v. Jntncs L. Barton, ot Boston, chairman of the
American Committee for Armenian and Syrian Relief, In an Interview on the
masonries, said: "My estimate Is ns follows: That, out of tho estimated 2,000,000
Armenians In Turkey at the beginning of the dlfllcultles, at least 1,000,000 havo
cither been killed or have died fzVim exposure, forced Into Islam, or driven from
their homes. Plense note tho three classes above mentioned, each ono ot which
lit Important. Wo hnvo heard definitely of Christians In nn entlro city, lllso tho
city of Kgln, in enstern Turkey, accepting Islam. We know from tho consular
reports that there nre somo "jO.OOO Armenian refugees In Russia nnd Persia.
Tho Consul nt Tlflls has reported 1S0.000 In four districts in bis field In Russia."
MILD WEATHER BRINGS FALL IN PRICE OF EGGS
There Is a btcnk In the egg market todny, and tho consumer should feel
the benefit ot It In tomorrow's retail purchases. Mild weather. It Is snld,.
Induces tho hen to work overtime and produco moro eggs, thus proving that,
everything lias Its compensating side. Orently Increased receipts In eggs today
with a slightly decreased demand resulted In bringing tho wholesale price
down to 2S'4 cents, a drop of G cents from yesterday's figure, which was 32
cents. This should mean that prime eggs, which were retailing this morn
ing nt GO cents, should bo purchased tonight nt 4G cents. Jobbers today, under
the unexpected drop la price, nro asking from 03 to 3G cents, according to grade.
FRENCH AMAZONS STORM CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES
PARIS. Jan. 12. Demanding thnt they bo sent to the front, n deputa
tion nf women wearing uniforms attempted to enter the Chamber ot Deputies
todny. The guards turned them back, telling them thnt "woman's place is
the home," but the Amazons Jeered and shouted thnt they would go to the
front anyway.
CONTROVERSY WITH FRANCE STILL ON
WASHINGTON, Jan. 12. Tho mnttcr of seizing Germans on American
vessels, causa 'of tho protest .to. Erancy trlnst the action of tho cruiser
-Descartes, waa not closed when Franco announced the ToleaBo of those cap
tured, nn nfflclut of tho S'tnto Department tald today. Tho department Hope
to get Franco to recognlzo the prlnclplo -thnt persons of a iion-mllitnry
character tnuellng between neutral ports nro immune from seizure e.gard
less of mitloriullty. -
WANT STREETS FLUSHED TO PREVENT GRIP
Flushing the streets In tho central pnrt of the city during such wenthe
ns would permit It was advocated by tho Walnut Street Business Association
today to the Health Department as a preventive against tho grip epidemic
In a communication sent to Director Krusen, of tho Health Department, today,
the association suggests that tho Flro Department could do it easily, nnd also
offers Its alii and co-operation in tho work.
BRITISH SHIP FIGHTS SHY OF PURSUING U-BOAT
RAUCHLONA. Jnn. 12. The British steamship Tnfim eluded u German
submarine that pursued her several miles in the Mediterranean and arrived
hero today.
The Tafna Is the Inrgest of 15 vessels owned by tho English nnd Amerlcar)
Shipping Company, of London. She displaces 4393 tons,
ITALIAN KING RETURNS FROM FRONT
ROME, Jnn. 12. After spending nearly eight months at the front with
his troops King Victor Emanuel returned to Romo today. Ills nrrlval was
entirely unexpected. Whether the King intends, to return to General Cadorna's
headquarters is not known.
HANS SCHMIDT
i ALBANY, Jan. 12. Governor Whitman todny will grant a reprieve of 30
j days to Hans Schmidt, former New York priest, convicted of the murder of
Anna Aumueller. Tho Governor's action will prevent Schmidt's electrocu
' tlon at Sing Sing, set for Friday. The condemned mun's attorneys pressed
1 tho stay, which may permit them to re-enter the Court of Appeals nn alleged
j new grounds, It Is reported here.
TWO GREEKS KILLED IN BATTLE WITH BULGARS
PARIS, Jan. 12. A Salonlca dispatch from the Temps ijayar ''Tho 27th
Bulgarian Regiment attacked Greek troops near Vestrina nnd attempted to oc
cupy two frontier posts. The righting lusted six hours. Both sides used nr
tillery. Only two Greek soldiers were killed. The Bulgarian losses were serious.
GERMAN AIR SQUADRON SHELLS SALONICA
LONDON, Jan. 12. A dispatch to Renter's Telegram Company from Sofia,
dated Monday. sayB: "A squadron ot 12 Gcnnnn aeroplanes op Friday dropped
78 bombs on Salonlca, devoting special attention to the camp of the French nnej
English, unions which 20 hits were scored, causing un outbreak of Are. Two
enemy aeroplanes were shot down. The German squadron returned without
lot.3."
GERMANY
fY BARS F
v JaiugJR. Tli
3 lntoBelglum
WASHINGTON, JanjR. That tho
ing foreigners to go IntolJelglum or other enemy territory occupied by German
forces, was emphasized In u note Just delivered to Socretray Lansing by Count
von Bernstorff. telling of new regulations of the German Empire for the, Issue.
and lse of passports to lie used In German territory. These, regulations per
mit German dlplomuts and Consular representatives to approve passports only
for admission Into territory of the German Empire, and not for admlsslgn tu
enemy territory occupied by German forces or to any other State. Th regu
latlons are very rigid.
SHIP TORPEDOED, 13 DIE IN LIFEBOATS
LONDON, Jan, 12. The British steamer Clan Maefurlape. of 4825 tons, wa
sunk by a submarine in the Mediterranean on December 30. Six officers auel
18 lasvars havo been landed at Malta. Thirteen lascars died In the lifeboats.
KAISER'S CONDITION GRAVE, SAY DUTCH REPORTS
LONDON, Jan. 42. The Amsterdam correspondent of the Dally Kxproac
Kajs the Kaiser's condition Is grave and there ufe rumors everywhere. n Qw
many that he U dying. The correspondent adds. "The Kaiser Is cqnline4 t
his private apartment aud Is. nursed only by the Kalserln." adding. tH lip
ubyjlutely brokenhearted owing: to th Impending collapse of tJermany'R great
military machine and the, dangerous financial situation of the KrapJr, Coju-r
Is given to reports that the Kaiser is near death by the puUllcatloa ot extra-
again eulogies of tlia achievements of
A dispatch from Geneva to the Daily
j Kaiser's throat was a failure ana a second operattou bus i& w4ert4,
i
f
J
A.
TO GET REPRIEVE
FOREIGNERS FROM BELGIUM
German Government Is not encourag
the Crown Prince, ia the. German.
"Expresa saysi tU Urat operation ua
a
-rsl
i
n
n
I
