THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
,Th Arizona
Republican,
Full
Luted Wlra
A. P. Report
Tha Sun
Aiwa y a China
Flnatt
Wlnttr Climate
In tha World
AN
PENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JANUARY 12, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 23S.
NO AMALGAMATION EVEN IF
SAME CANDIDATE IS CHOSEN
GRAND JURY TO
SIFT BRIBERY
Progressive National Com
mittee Adopts Declara
tion of Principles In
Which Administration Is
Criticized
PREPAREDNESS
IS KEYNOTE
Will Hold Convention In
Chicago Concurrently
With - Republicans and
Hope to Agree on Same
Candidate for President
Barnes Not Delegate Because
Roosevelt May Be Candidate
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Jan. 11. The progressive
party will hold its national convention
June 7, in Chicago, concurrently with
the national convention of the republi
can party, in the hope that both may
agree on the same candidate for presi
dent. . This action was decided upon today
by the national committee of the pro
gressive party. Forty-seven of the
forty-eight states were represented at
the meeting. Before adjourn ins the
committee adopted a declaration of
principles in which the administration
of President Wilson was criticized for
its alleged failure to deal adequately
with national honor and industrial wel
fare, and the progressive party went
un record as favoring a conjplete pre
paredness consisting of military arma
ment as well as a mobilization of all
the country's resources with a view of
the unification of American citizenship.
A message was read from Colonel
Theodore Koosevelt urging the action
for adequate preparedness, which was
enthusiastically applauded.
Progressive leaders declared that
there would be no amalgamation with
the republican party even in the event
of both parties choosing the same
presidential candidate. The progress
ive party plans to nominate a national
ticket at its convention in June.
Many of the party leaders declared
that if the republicans would nominate
Koosevelt or any other man who is re
garded as unobjectionable and would
incorporate in their platform the salient
features of the progressive principles,
both parties would unite on the same
candidates in Chicago next June.
The full text of the declaration of
principles follows:
"The progressive party began its ex
istence as did the republican party, as
n party of moral conviction and na
tional purpose. The progressive plat
form of 1H12 was of necessity a com
posite of national and state issues, for
the party was a new organization and
had 1r. speak at once for both nation
and state. Since then state issues,
such as the short ballot, initiative, ref
erendum and recall, have been taken
up in various state platforms.
"The national issues presented by
our platform of 1912 and those for
which we now stand represent the vital
needs of our national life. They are
tn substance:
"A broader nationalism, to make
possible an effective program of social
y.nd industrial justice at home and the
protection of American citizens and
rights abroad.
"The construction of federal regula
tions rather than the destructive dis
ruption of efficient business organiza
tions behavior and not size being the
xest.
"The introduction of business effic
iency into government by the budget
system and co-ordination of depart
ments. "A permanent, non-partisan tariff
commission to make possible the scien
tific revision of tariff schedules on
protective lines. Also, a pledge for the
immediate revision of such schedules
as the condition of world war have
made unjust or as are necessary for
the preservation, after the war of in
dustries newly established here, whose
necessity the war has demonstrated.
"A provision for equal suffrage.
"The dethronement of the invisible
govern men t.
"A provision for an adequate mer
chant marine.
"To the progressive platform of 191
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AL8-NY. X. Y.. Jan. 11. William
Barnes of Albany, former chairman
of the republican state committee,
said today that he would not go to
the republican national convention as
a delegate at large because he be
lieved it would be injudicious in view
of the possibility of Theodore lloo.se
velt becoming a candidate for the
presidential nomination.
This determination, he communicat
ed to Frederick C. Tanner, chairman
of U.e state committee, in a letter
which reads, in part, as follows:
"Powerful influences are at work to
bring aout the nomination of Mr.
Koosevelt. That this should be pre
vented, I am confident is the opinion
of all sane men and women. If we
are to prepare for defense, as Mr.
Roosevelt himself properly urges, it
would be irrational to place the power
thus created in the hands of one who
would itch to use it.
'In view of the contention which I
foresee will come before the national
convention over the Roosevelt can
didacy it would be injudicious for me
to be a delegate. The New York
delegation, which I assume will be a
unit against Roosevelt's personal am
bitions, should not be open to the
charge that any personal element
was involved in the action.
I shall be at Chicago as the mem
ber of the national committee from
this state to perform such duties as
properly devolve upon me."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Jan. 11. Evidence in the
alleged attempt at bribing the jury
which liberated the defendants in the
so-called Alaska Coal Land fraud cases
was placed before a federal grand jury
here today.
The principal witness was Archibald
T. Fitzgerald, who is said to have tes
tified that he paid $3,000 to O. W.
Bourke, a member of the jury. P.ourke
was fourteen years mayor of the
suburb of Blue Island. Both he and
Fitzgerald are under arrest.
The defendants in the alleged fraud
cases were Albert C. Frost, former
president of the Chicago and Mil
waukee Electric railway and the
Alaska Central railway; George M.
Seward, a Chicago broker who was
vice president of these companies;
Pierre G. Beach, a Chicago lawyer,
who was secretary of the companies;
George A. Ball, of Muncie, Ind., a
financial backer of Frost, and Frank
Watson, of Spokane, who was alleged
coal claims in Alaska. Dummy entry
men were alleged to have been used.
Sixteen
Mostly
Slain By
Americans
Villa Bandits
I CONDITION OF HUERTA
i REMAINS UNCHANGED
EL PASO, Tex., Jan. 11. The
condition of General Victoriano
Huerta was reported by his physl- j
I cian tonight as unchanged. The I
I patient rallied slightly early today.
I Following a restless night slight
I hope for his recovery was ex-
pressed.
The former provisional president
i of Mexico has undergone numerous
j operations, the result of jaundice,
I with complications. j
I
STRIPPED
OF CLOTIUND SHOT DI
11
1
WORK WANTS
SMALL ARMY
TENEGIOBEII TOTED
TO STEAM ROLLER ftTTftGK LIKE
THAT II CRUMPLED SERBIA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Jan. 11. Montenegro is
being treated to a ijteam-roller at
tack similar to that which crumpled
no its friend rind neighbor. Serbia.
The Austrian onslaught which has 'lying tne positions recently ou
been a long time in preparation, is ' them, and in this way their front has
now being ' prosecuted with great j been gradually extended until they
violence, menacing several important j occupy about thirty-four miles of the
the Bessarabia n frontier, information
from Get man sources is that they are
merely reorganizing their forces.
The Russians are reported as forti-
positions close to the Adriatic coast.
The Montenegrin stronghold, Mount
Lovcen, has fallen, according to to
night's official Austrian statement..
The attack here has been largely
assisted by Austrian warships and the
guns of the Cattaro forts. In addi-
cast bank of the middle reaches of
the Stnpa river, a position which it
is deemed here is secure against re
capture by the Austro-Gernians.
So far as the western front is con
cerned, the tenter of interest is still
the Champagne region. According to
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SANTA BARBARA, Jan. 11. Reit
erating his previous announcement
that he intends to retire to private
life, United States Senator John D.
Works -also goes on record as against
a large standing army, in a letter just
recei-ed by Dr. R. F. Winchester, of
this city.
After commenting on the importance
of this nation remaining strictly neut
ral, the senator writes:
"I am afraid we are being forced by
interested parties, through the hys
teria and fears of disinterested people,
to enact some legislation materially
changing our standing army and other
war forces. I do not like it in the
least. A large standing army is in
imical to our free institutions and ob
noxious to the free ideals of a free
thinking people. I hope we may avoid
it but the prospect of doing so is not
flattering just now."
ART 1
GILA BATTLING
Fl
.Second Day's Session of
Ninth Annual Convention
of Arizona Cattle Grow
ers' Association Marked
With Unusual Activity
THROW MAN
DOWN MINE
tion, the Montenegrins say tne aus- rrencn accounts, mere was cieari
trians made abundant use of asphyx-i nothing casual or ordinary about the
iating gas. A battle is raging on the j
whole of the northern and eastern
frontiers of Montenegro. On the east
the Montenegrins have been com
pelled to evacuate Berane.
For the British public, the latest
statements regarding the situation in
Mesopotamia wilt not entirely relieve
the anxiety. British General Ayhner's
column, which is advancing to the re
lief of Kut-El-Amara, has met and
repulsed a strong Turkish force, but
its present position is by no means
satisfactory, for it finis in front of
it a Turkish army greatly superior in
numbers Therefore it is evident that
a successful juncture of the two Brit
ish forces although they are only
twenty miles apart, may prove a dif
ficult matter.
There have been no fresh develop
ments on the Russian front where
cold weather again has set in, the
thermometer at some points touching
20 degrees below zero. Although
temporarily the Russians have ceased
their attack upon the Austro-Ger-
man lines, trom the pripet river to
big German attack which the French
claimed they successfully stopped.
The French lines here make a tempt
ing salient, but the position evidently
has been made correspondingly strong.
Paris claims that the French by
vigorous counter attacks expelled the
Germans from all except a small sec
tion of the trenches which they hail
won in Champagne.
The domestic crisis over the gov
ernment's compulsion bill has be
come much less tense, and it is now
predicted freely that the government
and the labor party may again be
pkued on friendly terms, and that
the expected break in the coalition
ministry may be prevented. John
Redmond announced in parliament to-
f It, v Thtil the n: t iinu I iwt vvmiltl Tint
further oppose the "military service
bill.
The resignations of Arthur Hender
son, president of the 'board of edu
cation, and his two labor colleagues
from the ministerial councils, have
not yet been accepted.
(Continued on Page Three)
RHODE ISLAND WOMAN ON TRIAL
FOR MURDER OF RER HUSBAND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire tclare dthat the prosecution was pre-
PROVIDEXCE, R. I., Jan. 11. An i pared to show that Mrs. Mohr in
outline of the facts that the prosecu- j cited tha negroes to slay her husband
tion expects to prove in the trial of because she was "worried by the di
Mrs. Elizabeth F. Mohr and two ; voice suit thut was pending, and also
negroes, Cecil V. Brown and Henry i feared that Dr. Mohr was going to
(Special to The Republican)
PRESCOTT. Jan. 11. Prepared for a
fight to the finish and loaded with argu
ments. Xogales and Globe delegations
to the ninth annual convention of Ari
zora Cattle Growers' Association are
battling for the 1917 convention for
their cities. Collector of Customs
Charles E. Hardy of Xogales made an
address on "The Further Co-operation
of the- Live Stock Growers' Associa
tion and the Two Departments of
Government: the Customs Depart -
Tl tnt .inH ttlA TOllfr...,, Animal I
rRemihliran A. P. L 3H Wlr.1 '" ...l. ..i 111-
GLOBE, January ll.-Thrown down j Urg" )S W-to-grther -
a forty-foot shaft of an abandoned mfn f"r V nuggling
mine near here Sunday night by rob- "f d,seafd a'ld otllPr UtIe across the
hers, L. Lehi, a miner, was rescued to- b"r0,'r from MeXK''
day by men working a nearby mining "Ki v" "Y'P Vip" and a -hundred
lease. The. miner was suffering from ! :'thr cowboy yells greeted every
bruises on the face and knees, declared speaker during the second day's ses
he was nearly famished and that he sion. Among the speakers were chair-
TRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Jan. 11. Sixteen -foreigners, most
of
them Americans, enroute from Chihuahua City to Cusi
huiriachic, western Chihuahua, yesterday, were taken
from a train about fifty miles from Chihuahua City,
stripped of their clothing', and shot by Mexican bandits.
Confirmation of news of the tragedy tonight was made
by officials here of theCarranza de facto government.
Ac-ccording to the de facte government's announce
ment, given to representatives here of several mining
companies, the following were reported killed:
C. R. Watson, William J. Wallace, E. L. Robinson,
George W. Newman, M. B. Romero, T. M. Evans, R. T.
McIIatton, Jack IIas.se, Charles Wadleigh, J. P. McCoy,
Alexander Hall, J. W. Woom, Charles A. Pringle, W. i).
Pierce, R. II. Cimmons, Maurice Anderson.
Pringle lives in San Francisco and Pierce in Los
Angeles. The others are all believed to be residents of
El Paso.
Dispatches tonight stated that the bodies were en
route to Juarez.
Of the killed, Alexander Hall is from Douglas, Ari
zona; Charles Wadleigh from Bisbee, Arizona, and Jack
Hasse from Miami, Ariz.
was minus a $20 gold piece taken by
the robbers.
Lehi said that be was attacked by
two men Sunday night They took his
gold, but overlooked $3 in silver and
then hurled him into the shaft of the
abandoned mine near by. He called
for help frequently yesterday and to
day. The men who rescued him said
they heard a voice yesterday, but did
not recognize it as a call for help.
MORE LAND
FOR ENTRY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX FRAXCISCO, Jan. 11. Desig
nation of 79.XS0 acres of public lands
as open to entry February 1, 1M1C, in
Alameda, Fresno, Monterey, San Ben
ito, San Luis Obispo, and Mercede
counties under the enlarged homestead
act which permits the acqusisition of
homesteads of 320 acres instead of 160,
was announced today by J. B. San
ford, I'nited States land register for
the San Francisco district.
Entry upon these lands previously
was restricted to 160 acres. Mineral
and timbered lands are excluded.
H. Spellman, charged with the mur
der of Dr. C. Franklin Mohr, the wom
an's husband, was presented to the
jury today. The testimony of one.
wiiness ttediful Examiner C. H.
as above summarized and amplified, I Griffin, also was heard.
we pledge our continued 'allegiance;
both of the old parties having failed
(Continued on Page Three)
Abbott Phillips, assistant attorney
general, in recounting the circum
stances of the death of Dr. Mohr, de-
WL S II 0
STAMP OUT PLAGUE 0
F
COYOTE RABIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX FRAXCISCO. Cal Jan. 11. A
congressional appropriation of sevoral
hundred thousand dollars will probably
be asked through the offices of the
I'nited States public health service by
H conference of Pacific slope states to
stamp out a plague of coyote rabies.
Dr. J. S. Boggess, -of the United
States public health service, said to
nignt that plans for a conference of
have to cover a wide area and not only
is effective co-operation between the
contiguous and affected states difficult
but most of the states have almost no
available funds for the work. It would
require several hundred thousand dol
lars." Several weeks ago a meeting was
held here of health board representa
tives of California, Oregon, Idaho and
Nevada at which an interstate- com
mittee headed by Dr. .Boggess was
representatives of California. Nevada, j named to direct the work of extermin-
Oregon, I'tah. Montana, Idaho and ating the coyotes. Oovernor William
Arizona with Surgeon General Rupert j Spry of Utah, it was said, uninformed
Blue are under way. 0f the action of the first conference,
To effectively combat and eradicate j called a second meeting of these states
the coyote menace in these states" including Arizona and Montana and
said Dr. Boggess. "federal aid now Utah but it was likely that this would
seems imperative. The campaign would ie called off.
put all his money in the name of Miss
Kmily C. Burger, his secretary, of
whom his wife was extremely jeal
ous." Air. Phillips said that Dr.' Mohr
was attacked on August 31. 191ii,
while in an automobile on his way
from this city to his Newport resi
dence; accompanied by Miss Burger;
that the negro chauffeur, George W.
Healis. stopped the car while passing
through a stretch of woods near Bar
rington, and thut the doctor and Miss
Burger were shot from ambush. The
chauffeur picked Miss Burger up
after the shooting, Mr. Phillips said,
and carried her to the side of the
road. She recovered from her
wounds, but Dr. Mohr died the next
morning at the hospital,
j Healis will bo a witness for the
state," Mr. Phillips continued. "He
stopped the car on the darkest' spot
i in the road. We will, show you thut
Brown and Healis had been there pre
vious and had arranged things by
putting a branch of a tree at the side
of the road so that Healis would
know where Brown and Spellman
were to hide lor the attack."
Dr. Clifford H. Griffin, the medical
examiner who performed an autopsy
on the body of Dr. Mohr, testified
that the distance the revolver was
,ield from the doctor's head -bv the
assassin was one or two feet, judging
from the b'-rned edges of the wounds.
The early part of the day was spent
by the jury in viewing the scene of
the crime.
GETS LIBERTY
THROUGH ERROR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAVER VILLE, Cab, Jan. 11. Roy
Glenn, charged with the murder of a
Chinese mine owner here November
12 and on trial in the superior court
was discharged from custody today
because the district attorney had
omitted the words "Trinity county" in
describing in the complaint the locality
in which the alleged murder was com
mitted. Sheriff Bigelow has refused to swear
to a new complaint and Glenn is at
liberty. Lorin Freyer, 13 years old.
Glenn s alleged accomplice, is in jail
awaiting trial.
o
MAY POSTPONE
HAUSER TRIAL
man of the State Corporation Commis
sion F. A. Jones, District Forester R. C.
Ringlaml, Chairman of State Tax Com
mission Charles R. Howe; F. P. Cruice
of the Santa Fe and Harry Turner of
the Southern Pacific. President Dwight
B. Heard of the American National
Livestock association, presented a pap
er, which was read by Tom E. Camp
bell. '
In the evening the cowmen were
given a theater party followed by a
bunqin-t and a dance. The election of
officers and selection of the city for
the 1!17 convention will take place to
morrow. on account of the absence of Pres
ident Dwight B. Heard of the Amer
itt'n National Live Stock Association
who is in the east, the following
paper prepared by him was read be
fore the convention by Hon. Thomas
Campbell of the state tax commission:
The Public Range and Present Plans
For its Use and Control
Kver since President Hayes, nearly
forty years ;igo, appointed a land
commission to consider, among other
matters, legislation relating to the
control of the open range, the na
tion's great natural stock-breeding
pastures, there has been a constantly
growing conviction among practical
stockmen of the West that to prevent
the gradual destruction of the range
through over-grazing and build up
its carrying capacity through intelli
gent use, some definite national leg
islation -,vas necessary that regulated
use under federal control might be
substituted for the prevailing condi
tions of indiscriminate and wasteful
misuse.
With no control of this public range
and no determination of the respective
grazing rights of the occupants, the
stock-grazing industry has naturally
oeen more or less of a struggle for
existence. Constant clashes oT inter
est have occurred between stockmen.
particularly between sheep and cattle
men, resulting in almost constant
friction and sometimes bloodshed.
It is very gratifying to be able to
report at this time that there exists
today a disposition on the part of the
First reports of the tragedy were
received here in a message from
Thomas M. Holmes, the only survivor,
to Mrs. Holmes advising her of his
safe arrival at Chihuahua. Inquiries
instituted by officials of the Ameri
can Smelting and Refining Company
developed the details.
The ill-fated party boarded a train
at Chihuahua City intending to re-
' open at Cusihuiriachic, properties of
the smelting company, officials of
which had been given assurances of
protection by the de facto govern
ment. Although the advices given out to
night by the Mexican consulate re
garding the killing of the Americans
was received during the day, no ex
planation was offered for the delay.
Several previous requests for infor
mation were met u ith the statement
that there was nothing to give out.
The activities of General Villa have
brothers nt Dur.mgo. The Arrleta
brothers were nominally affiliated
with the Carranza forces.
Mexican Consul Andreas G. Garcia
lias reiterated for many days that he
could neither affirm nor deny reports
of movements of operations by bands
of armed men in the interior of the
state of Chihuahua.
The u hereabouts of General Villa
still is not known here, but he is be
lieved to be in the (iuerero district.
Geneixil Manuel Medina veitin, until
.recently with Villa, was arrested to
night in El Paso by the police on a
technical charge of vagrancy. Only
yesterday Villa adherents gave out a
report that Medinaveitia was enroute
to Cuba. It was Medina vietia who
was charged with taking prisoner P.
Keane, an English subject employed
on the Hearst ranch at Babricora.
Keane later was killed.
A protest, relating to the ascer-
been unimpeded in the Guerrero dis-tained facts in the killing of the for-
trict where he commanded a territory of
rich country along the lines of the
Mexican Northwestern railway and
together with General Rodriguez has
cut the railroad and threatened the
property of the Madera Company,
Limited, at Madera.
That General Argumedo. a Zapata
leader, could bold Gomez Palacio,
within three miles of Torreon, where
it was reported throe thousand de
facto government troops we're sta
tioneib for five days without a fight,
was taken to indicate a possible dis
organization in the military adminis
tration. Argumedo left the town
Monday, it was reported today, with
out being attacked. It was said Gen-
j eigners was circulated among mining
men gathered in excited groups in
the hotel lobbies here tonight. The
protest was addressed to President
Wilson and was signed by mining
men. who are here in hundreds pre
pared to enter Chihuahua state and
open properties under protection of
the de facto government
It was learned tonight that before
the train filled with employes left
Chihuahua City for the mining
camps, a guard of de facto govern
ment soldiers for the train had been
refused.
Messages from the south poured
into local offices of mining corpora
tions here tonight stating that ent
eral Martin Triano. similarly occupies i l'loves were returning to the border.
Durango City, and it is reported Gen- Another version of the escape of T.
eral Rosalia Hernandez holds Parral, H- Holmes was received late today by
in peace with a handful of troops. ' officials of the, Mexican Northwestern
It is believed that Argumedo left rail'""ad, in a message from officials
Gomez Palacio to form a junction at Chihuahua City. It follows:
with General Triano and the Arrieta 1
(Continued on Page Two)
CONSUL DISPATCHES BEAR HS
OFtfFI TO STATE DEPIT1E1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OMAHA. Neb. Jan. 11. Examining
physicians tonight announced that Ar
thur Hauser, on trial here for the mur
der 0f w. H. Smith, cashier' of the
Woodmen of the World, was suffering
from tonsilitis. The physicians will
have . consultation in the morning and
will then make recommendation to the
trial judge who will decide if Hauser's
illness justifies a further postponement
of the trial.
MUST DIG
BOAT LOOSE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SEATTLE. Jan. 11. A channel must
be dredged through the sand before
the barkentine Jane L. Stanford, which
grounded on Ediz Hook near Port
Angeles during yesterday's gale can
be released, according to word re
ceived here today. The vessel is
resting on soft bottom and when the
sand is dug away can be towed into
deep water undamaged, salvers said
(Continued on page Seven)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Jan. 11. Consul
dispatches to the state department
frcm the border tonight told of reports
reaching there that sixteen American
mining men had been taken from a
train and killed by former Villa sol
diers near Chihuahua, Mexico. Secre
tary Lansing, who was attending the
cabinet dinner ae the White House,
kept in touch with the department
throughout the evening and brought
VI LL A RELEAS ES AG ED BROTHER OF
GEK. OBREGOiy, WHO WAS HELO AS HOSTAGE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Jan. 1 1. Francisco Ob
regon, elder brother of GeneraLAlvaro
Obregon, the Carranza leader, has
been released from imprisonment in
Western Chihuahua by General Fran
cisco Villa, according to a telegram re
ceived today by Colonel Dato Camp
bell, commanding the garrison at Agua
Prieta, Sonora, opposite here, from
General Obregon. Francisco Obregon
was captured several weeks ago by
Villa and held as a hostage, it was
said, to aid in his own escape from
the de facto troops.
One Mexican w,man and two Car
ranza soldiers died of exposure several
(Jays ago when several hundred Mexi
can families were stranded north of
Cananea, Sonora, by a railroad
wreck, advices from Cananea stated
today. The Mexicans were being taken
to Cananea on a special train for em
ployment in the mines and smelters.
The shortage of Mexican labor at
the mines in C ananea has caused con
siderable difficulty In operating the
plants, it was said. Nearly all Amer
ican and other foreign employes, how
ever, have returned to work.
Governor P. Elias Calles has im
posed a penalty of death upon all per
sons either buying or selling liquor,
cananea reports said.
the reports to the attention of the
president. Representatives of the
United States in Mexico and along the
border were instructed to investigate
and rush any information available to
AVashington.
If the reports are true and on ac
count of the circumstantial stories they
tell, officials fear they are, urgent rep
resentations probably will be sent to
General Carranza at once, demanding
that he hunt down the murderers and
take steps to prevent the repetitions ot
such crimes in the future.
Secretary Lansing made public only
a part of his advices from the border.
a list of names of American mining
men. presumably those who are known
to have been in Chihuahua waiting an
opportunity to return to their work.
Thisi list contained 12 names. Of the
IS named in the El Paso dispatches,
Charles Wadleigh, c. "VV. Newman, Jack
Hose, J. Jones and Thomas M.
Holmes were not on the departments
lisf.
No action will be taken by the Unit
ed States in the case of the killing of
Peter Keane in Chihuahua by General
Medinaveitia. Secretary Lansing to
day said that since Keane was a Brit
ish subject it appeared proper that any
representations should be by Grfcat
Britain.
Medinaveitia was formerly one of
Villa's generals but later was reported
to have surrendered with his forces to
Carranza.
