Crossville Chronicle.
THE TENNESSEE TIMES
OROSSVILLE CHRONICLE
t CONSOLIDATED
) 1396
VOL. XXX.
CROSSVILLE, TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 12. 1916.
NO. 2
REPUB. COMMITTEE MEETS,
Primary Election to Be Held Saturday,
March 25; Candidates Satisfied
The county RepuDlican Executive
Committee met in the county court
room at noon Monday. Out ot the 23
members the following were present
Either in person or oy proxy : G. P.
Burnett, Chairman; S. C. Bishop, Sec
retary; J ere Morrow in person, and
holding the proxy of J. L. Anderson ;
D. W. Lundy, A. G. Green, S. C. Cline.
A. L. Potter, T. S. Parham, J. S. Wy
att, J. T. Ashburn, Sam Nelson, R. P.
Rose, A. L. Garrison holding the proxy
of B. L. Garrison ; a total of 15.
It was moved by Jere Morrow and
seconded by A. L. Potter that nomi
nations be made by primary election.
It was moved by S. C. Bishop and
seconded by Jere Morrow that the pri
mary be held Saturday, March 25.
A committee of five was appointed,
including the chairman and secretary,
to draft rules to govern the primary.
The following is the committee: G. P.
Burnett, S. C. BiBhop, S. C. Cline,
Jere Morrow, A. L. Garrison. It was
the sense of the meeting that such
rules as the sub committee may dratt
shall be accepted by the entire com
mittee as fully as though the entire
committee had passed upon them.
The committee as a whole also di
rected that the sub-committee draft
suitable resolutions touching the com
ing campaigns, and that said resolu
tions be published along with the rules
governing the primary election.
There was some discussion relative
to asking republicans to hold the elec
tion without pay, in order to make the
burden of expense less on the candi
dates. The candidates expressed them
selves as being favorable to following
the custom of the pist and not to ask
the voters to hold the election without
"pay- When the lisn ia pibhehrf of
those who are appointed to hold the
election no one need fear he will be
asked to give his services free, tor all
'wi!l be paid the usual amount of one
dollar for the day.
The members of the subcommittee
will meet Saturday and diaft the rules
to govern the primary election and said
rules will appear in the issue of the
Chronicle lor next week.
The utmost harmuny and good feel
ing prevailed throughout the meeting
and there is every indication that the
party will face the coming elections
with a solid front to the common enemy.
HARMONIOUS MEETING
$200,000
ROAD
BONDS
NEW STATE CONSTITUTION. HANGING NO LONGER LEGAL
W.
W.
BUSINESS SOLD.
Reed & Burnett Buy the Feed and Gro
cery Stock of J. T. Horn & Co.
A deal was closed this week that re
moves J. T. Horn & Company from
business and Reed & Burnett take
over their stock and also rent the
building occupied by J. T. Horn &
Company.
Keed & Burnett will remove the J.
T. Horn stock to their store and con
tinue to use the building., occupied oy
J, T. Horn & Compar.v as a stock
room. That will provide them with
room to store several cars of feed of
all kinds and also a place in which to
store potatoes and other produce the
coming season. Keed & Burnett
ceased buying potatoes last fall before
the crop was marketed because they
had no storage room tor the crop.
Next year they w'ill be prepared to
handle potatoes'in unlimited quantity
as they will have ample storage room.
Mr. Horn is undecided as yet just
what line of DUBiness he will engage
in. He has in view certain timber
deals that he may decide to close or he
may devote his entie time to farming
this season. Being a man of energy
and accustomed to close applicati n to
business he will find plenty with which
to engage his time. He has a splendid
farm near town and may put a man on
it and look after that while devoting a
part of his time to other business mat
ters. He will be engaged for some
weeks in finally closing up the accounts
connected with his business.
Officers Etected and Much Enthusiasm
Aroused Favorable to Early Action
for Improved Conditions.
the Cumberland County business
Association met in the court house
Monday night and elected the following
officers :
J. E. Burnett, President.
E. G. Tollett, First Vice-President.
Jere Morrow, Second Vice President.
J. H. Henry, Third Vice-President.
K. A. Powel, Fourth Vice-President.
J. F. Brown, Fifth Vice-President. ,
S. C. Bishop, Secretary.
V. L. Lewis, Treasurer.
A committee was appointed by the
piesidnet to report at the next meeting
what seems the greatest need and what
action the association shall take look
ing to the accomplishment ot the de
sired end.
The president a80 appointed the two
committees provided for in the consti
tution. In the case ot the Executive
committee the constitution makes the
president ex-ofhcio chairman.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
Millard F. Reed, Fred Cate, C.
Bell and J. E. Burnett.
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE:
S. C. Bishop, Dr. V. L. Lewis,
F. Bandy.
I'he meeting adjourned to meet Mon
day night, January 17, to adopt by
laws and he: r the report of the special
committee.
Under the constitution any white
person who so desires may become a
charter mere! c by sending the mem
bership fee of oi"- dollar to the secre
tary before ti c ::ext meeting night.
After that t'lti.u any person wishing
to become :
their name
uieafuur and he
The meeting was
throughout and never before have we
seen so much enthuisasm for doing
something really worth while for the
advancement of our town and county.
Several justices of the peace were
present and joined the association and
indicated that they were in complete
harmony with the objects sought and
it is certain that they will carry to
their home people the assurance that
this association is intended tor the up
building of the whole county and to in
every way possible assist in arousing
tfee spirit of progress that will result
in things desired by every live com
munity
It seems probable that the first
movement will be for the improvement
of Main Street, as it is clear to all that
without better street conditions than
we now have, our town can never be.
what it should be and what it must be
if we are to grow and secure those citi
zens and businesses necessary for the
best interests of the entire community.
Next week the Chronicle hopes to be
able to tell its readers that important
action has been taken looking to the
improvement oi our streets and that
the action is of such character as as
sures success.
It is hoped that all progressive citi
zens from all parts of the county will
join the association and lend such aid
as- they are able and in every way pos
sible. That the movement will accom
plish much that is best for our town
and county there can be no doubt and
all who do not lend a helping hand will
later see wherein they failed to grasp
the opportunity to allign themselves
with the spirit of progress that is now
so marked in the community.
ARE CONTRACTED
I Some Good Reasons Why Such an In- j Supreme Court Renders Opinion That
strument Is Badly Needed. Sustains Bowers Bill
The Nashville Commercial Club is
issuing the following strong appeal in
Count Is Practically Protected From behalf of a new State Constitution:
interest on $100,000 for the First
Year. The Deal Regarded a
Good One Every Way.
Yesterday J. W. Dorton, C. G. Black
and J. A. Kemmer signed a contract
for the sale of the 200,000 road im
provement bonds provided tor by an act
of the lust legislature.
Messrf
contract here in town ana the bond
buyer then went to Grassy Cove to see
the other commissioner, J. A. Kem
mer, and get his signature. Mr. Kem
mer was reached by phone before the
parties left to see him p.nd he stated
that he would sign the contract. Mr.
Kemme: was unable to come to town
because he is just recovering from a
severe attack of la grippe.
The conditions of the sale are under
stood to be about as follows: The
whole $200,000 is purchased at par with
the understanding that 5100,000 of the
amount is to remain in bank for one
year and the bond purchasers are to
provide the one per cent between the
"Dunne the first hundred years of
i our history we kept pace with the
j growth and development of other
Southern States, but during the past
15 to 20 years we have fallen stea dily
behind.
THE RECORD IS ASTOUNDING.
"The last census shows that in ten
years some of the finest counties in the
State actually lost in population.
Black and Dorton signed the j From 1900 to 1910 the growth in popu
lation of all the Southern States, Ten
nessee excluded, was twenty per cent,
while ours was only eight per cent
We bartly increased 164,000 in those
ten years, and that was less than in
any decade for sixty years, except dur-1
ing the war, and we only beat that re
Hanging is no longer lawful in Ten
nessee. Saturday the state supreme
court, speaking through Justice Bucha
nan, handed down a unanimous decision
that in effect sustains the Bowers bill,
which was introduced at the last sit
ting ot the legislature, doing away
with the death penalty in Tennessee.
The case that the decision hung on
was one that went up from Johnson
City, in which Johnson City sought to
enforce certain conditions on the East
ern Electric Comany, and in which the
constitutionality of House Bill No. 19
was involved. The bill in question was
passed in the same waj as was tha
I anti-hanging bill. The supreme court
j held that the fact that the legislature
! was at recess did not change that
i . . . ... .... ...
ieature ot tne constitution tnat speci
fies that when the governor holds a bill
cord bv a tew thousand. The last een- i Ior '"Ker u,a" "ve uaB wimoui sign-
sus shows that the average growth of
all othe other Southern states is two
and one-half times as fast as ours.
"It was not so in other days; it
should not be so now.
"For illustration, 1890, we led North
Carolina 149,000; in 1910 she led us
21,000. Twenty years ago we led Ala
bama by 25,000, now she leads us.
five per cent the bonds draw and the j Twenty years ago Georgia was only
four percent the bank will allow as j 70,000 ahead of us, now. she is 500,000
interest. Ry that means the county ahead.
will practically have no interest to pay
on $1(10,(100 of the bonds for the first
year. The deal is regarded as a very
favorable one.
So e weeks ago $100,000 of the bonds
were contracted to the same parties,
but when the attorney for the uur-
.-. ::.ber will have to have jchasers came to go over the act he con-
nraaanl ad nt. h iri-iilur :
vuturi upon.
harmonious
strued it that the tountj' Sad no legal
Mght t-vjj-ali - y oi tin b f ffg-frP 'ess all
were sold. As the commissioners" did
not feel it to be proper o involve the
county for interest on u Urge portion
of the money before it could be used,
they declined to sell the vhole issue to
the buyers. Ihe wisdom of their
course is now plain as it nas saved the
county anywhere from one to four
The feeling isn
than halt of the is
and profitably used
thousand jollars.
era I that not more
sue can be safely
within one year.
No hitch is expected 10 the sale thi3
time and with the opening ot spring
we may resonauly expect active road
building to begin.
;'PAY DIRT" UNDER NEW YORK
IT IS THE SAME INDUSTRIALLY.
"The Southern states, outside ot
Tennessee, have niorrie than 3miles of
railroads per thousand inhabitants; we
hv"e less than two. These figures fur
nish a perfect uaromter of the indus
trial conditions. Railroads go where
there is traffic, freight and passengers
"Why then are we not keeping pace
with our own past record and with our
neighbors whom we formerly led:'
Have their soil and their climate and
their seasons suddenly changed and
gotten better than owts't Not a bit
of it. Are their natural resources,
greater than ours? Not a bit of it.
Are our people less thritty, less in
dustrious than they formerly were or
than their neigbhors now are? Not
abit of it. Whence then our relative
decline? The only rational, logical
answer is, that we are living under a
Constitution and system of government
that we have outgrown. A lusty youlh
kept in his first or second pants must
either burst tiiem or cease to grow.
We have about ceased to grow
ANTIQUATED CONSTITUTION.
ing or vetoing it, the act becomes a law
without the signature of the governor.
The court held that Governor Rye
should have returned the bill to the
clerk of the house with his approval or
disapproval within the specified five
' days, but as the legislature was at re
I cess the governor construed the consti
jtution to mean five days when the leg -I
islature was in actual session. The bill
; on which the court passed its opinion
was passed under the same conditions
asthe Bowers, or anti-hanging lull.
Gov. Rye commuted to a ilte sen
tence Henry Roberts, who was con
victed in Fa.xette county ot murder in
; the first degree and had been sentenced
to harg August 10. Gov. Rye had re
j prieved Roberts several times pending
action of the supreme court
a sparsely settled, agricultural people,
with no commerce, no railroads, no
manufacturing, no cities, no large cor
porations is, utterly inadequate to our
20th century, complex civilization.
! Under such a system we cannot hold
our own native born sons and d
WAR SITUATION.
POWDER PLANTS EXPLODE.
Three powder mills of the DuPont
company blew up Monday. The mills
were located near Wilmington, Dela
ware. Three persons were killed and
the plants were blown to atoms. It is
thought the explosions were caused by
outside influences, but no arrests bad
been made up to Monday night.
The heavy fighting on the Austrian
border resulted in gains for the Rus
sian forces, but nothing like a disas
trous defeat resulted. The Austrians
have got the best of fighting with the
Montenegrins. Numerous German at
tacks have been repulsed by the
French, but the French were forced to
evacuate some trenches to the Ger
mans. The effort to force the Dardanelless
has ceasea and most of the allied
troops have been withdrawn. The es
timated cost, exclusive of -inps and
lives sacrificed, is one bililon, two hun
dred and fifty millions of dollars.
Legend Which Seems tooint to Ex
istence of Gold Under Streets of
the Metropolis.
A Philadelphia assayer, Walter
Scott by name, recently took several
hand; uls of sand from a street exca
vation near Independence hall, and
after putting it through an assaying
process, extracted a small quantity of
gold Ho declared there was enough
gold under Philadelphia, in his opin
ion to iiiake hunting it worth while.
Residents of Upper Manhattan re
member Thomas Hartshorn, an eccen
tric chap who lived in the vicinity of
One Hundred and Sixth street and
Fifth avenue for many years. One of
his hobbies was absolute faith in the
divining rod. He talked about its un
erring certainty in the pointing out
of metal for many years until he could i Tennessee in worth less than it
CLIFTY
Miss Effie Turner has returned to
Bon An to take up her school work for
another term.
Misses Officer and Hudgens have re
turned from their homes at Sparta and
are filling their respective places in our
school in the intermediate and primary
departments.
Miss Elizabeth Moore has returned
from Sparta, where she was a guest of
friends. She went to be present at
Mrs. Gains New Year watch party.
Roy E. Bell, of Crossvillp, was here
one day last week in the interest of
Trotter Brothers, of Chattanooga. We
wish him well in this new field of en
deavor. Mrs. John E. Harris is suffering from
an attack of lagrippe, but is reported
-iuch better.
Mrs. W. R. Houlden is convalescent
"A Constitution that fitted perfectly j after a seveie attack of lagrippe.
seem to talk of nothing else, and he
got to be known as the Rod Crank.
One afternoon several years ago
Hartshorn sallied forth from his home
and, entering Central park, took his
way to where the McGowa'g Pass tav
ern now stands. In those days it was
the Mount St Vincent House of Re
freshment. Several boys noticed
Hartshorn walk alone the path to the
east of the tavern and hold out his
divining rod. Presently he was seen
to stop and, after looking around to
see If he was observed, stick a small
stake into the crass.
One of the boys shadowed him for
the remainder of the day and told his
father.
ters, much les:-; attract home s
from elsewhere.
MISSING BUSINESS.
"There is competition now between
States on both new coiners and new
industries. The other Southern States,
by reason ot their more progressive j
system of government, out-bid us and
get the cream.
Consequently every foot of lane, in
should
be, every farmer, merchant, manu
facturer, and banker loses some busi- j
ness he should have; every laboring j
man has his opportunity for employ
ment lessened;
"is TennesseeVto come to the front,
where she belongs, or lag still further
and further behind? That s the ques-!
tion.
STRIKE RIOT.
Strike troubles at Youngstown, Ohio,
last week resulted in several persons
being seriously hurt, many stores of
the town were looted and finally the
torch was applied by the strikers.
That night Hartshorn was fol- j They fought off the firemen and would
lowed to the place of the stake and
they saw the Rod Man fill a pail with
sand. The news spread the next day
or two that Hartshorn had found gold.
The Rod Man never denied It up to
the time he died, and many Harlem
ites still believe there is gold near Mc
Gown's pass. New York Sun.
not let them put out the fires. Cne
person was killed, fifteen blocks of the
town, including the heart ot the busi
ness section, were destroyed and loss
sustained that is estimated at one mil
lion dollars. The governor called out
the militia ana placed the town under
martial law. Quietness was restored.
Dr. J. R. Gott, our local physician,
has been on the go night and day for
the past few weeks, but reports all the
sick people on the road to Well ville.
Bro. G. W. Angel filled his regular
appointment here last Sunday. He has
been engaged in revival services at
Eastland, one of the stations in tins
charge, and reports much interest in
the work.
All the college boys and girls have
returned to their respective schools.
Much interest is being manifested
along agricultural lines just now. No
doubt this interest is due to a large ex
tent to the Demonstration Farm being
located hee by the officials of the N.
C. & St. L. railway. Jhe Coal Com
pany has set aside several acies of land
adjacent to the railroad, which will be
used as the site of the farm. It is4the
prupose of the railway officials to dem
onstrate the practicability of raising
forage crops, and will put an acre each
in the different kinds ot clover, red,
white and alfalfa; also different grass
crops, including red top, herds and
others which they are sure will grow
and thrive on top of the plateau. The
railway and the coal companies are do
ing this work co-operatively, in order
to encourage the men .to grow crops
that will enable them to winter large
herds of cattle. Already several men
have bought registered cattle of the
Hereford variety and many others have
expressed themselves in favor of thin-
j ning out the scrubs and buying regis
tered or high grade Hereiorns. An as
sociation has been formed among the
men, the purpose of which is to im
prove the breed ot the cattie in this
section. Public sentiment is in favor
of the Hereford and at an early date
nothing but a white-face or a Jersey
will be seen in this neck of the woods.
Jan. 10. Clifty Spirit.
i
