If lead, S5.90; spelter not quoted; cop- f W Ttartl ! Ulfh: T""'"- and H
II per firm, e,ec,ro,c, ,0. ' VJ SSUISTSSf Th23ftT.l
II I : FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER I s c""- H
lU FOr'y'S"'th YCarN- 1- Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 12, 1916. Entered aa Second Class Matter at the Postoffic. n,.. tu ," H
III Mexican Situation Brought to Boiling
i Point by Execution of Over 1 6 Americans
1 STORM BREAKS IN U, S. SENATE
I OVER DASTARDLY ACT OF MEXICANS
I
II Both Houses Call on President to Abandon Waiting Policy
18 and Invite Pan-American Nations to Join in Restoring
H Order and Government in Mexico Strongest Kind
H of Instructions Sent to Consuls Lansing De
ll mands Satisfaction Every Step Pos
II i sible to See That Perpetrators of
II Terrible Crime Are Punished .. -
l ' Reviews Situation.
! L .
m
9 ! . Washington, Jan. 12 The Mexican
JV : situation has been brought to the boil
tS ','. Ing point again by the execution of
tS the sixteen or more Americans near
9 ? Chihuahua. In congress, at the White
sV House and at the state department to
H ' day it entirely displaced all other In
iVUj , tcrnational affairs.
jH I Secretary Lansing, after sending a
fl I demand for satisfaction to General
:H ! Carranza, Issued a statement declar--fl
r ing it was to be deplored that the
H Americans bad not followed the Btate
fl: department's warning against expos
Hi ; ing their lives in the guerilla warfare
H ' regions and adding:
Hi k "Every stop will be taken to see
HI; that the perpetrators of this dastardly
H crime are apprehended and punished."
HI ! Storm Breaks In Senate.
fl ) In the 'senate an expected storm
i broke as soon as it assembled. Sen
r ator Sherman, Republican, introduced
; a resolution proposing that, unless
H General Carranza gives proper protec
H : tion to foreign life and property, the
United States should invite the Pan-
, American nations which have been
W t associated in the Mexican negotia
H 1 tions to join in restoring order and
H government in Mexico.
H ; Senator Sherman's resolution was
H read to the senate and without com
l i ment or discussion of any kind was
' referred to the foreign relations' com-
t . XJUUtiO,
L 'i Resolution In House.
If "In the house, Representative "Dyer,
If '. Republican, introduced a similar reso
11 lution calling on the president to in
1(1 form congress if he did not believe.
If the time had come to abandon the
111 "watchful, waiting" policy. Other
Iff members gave notice of their Inten
l r tion to make speeches.
If " The administration was not without
1 : its defenders, who gave notice they
I ' also would speak.
' White House Exhibits Concern.
If Although the White House and the
If . suite department exhibited evidences
l of concern, there was no indication to-
day of proceeding further than call
II - ing upon General Carranza to punish
l the bandits who executed the Amerl
K ' cans and to give proper guarantees
II t for the lives and safety of foreigners.
It ; There was no outward evidence of
K any change in the Mexican policy.
1 More information was sought from
If I all the state department's sources.
M i Eliseo Arredondo, General Carranza's
R ' ambassador here, received official
II confirmation of the killings and ask
f ' ed his government for more details.
r Washington, Jan. 12. Secretary
M Lansing today telegraphed, General
1 Carranza, calling for the prompt pun
l( Ishment of tho bandits who executed
m seventeen Americans near Chihuahua
K t Monday Through Eliseo Arredondo,
I the newly appointed Mexican ambas
I i. eador here, it was arranged to bring
I l the bodies from Chihuahua to Juarez
I . today on a special train.
m ; EHseo Arredondo, General Car
I ranza's ambassador here, received con
Hi Urination from Carranza sources of
ft the execution of the Americans and
I - has asked for further details. His ad
I vices are the first confirmation from
I ' Mexican sources,
; General Villa Retaliating.
I: Officials here attributed the attack
II to General Francisco Villa's threat
I l against Americans at the time of- his
I ; defeat in Sonera, The success of the
I de facto government's campaign, Villa
I ' declared, was duo to the permission
m i granted 'by the United States for the
IE transportation of Carranza troops
mh through American territory'. In re
Hf tnliatlon lie demanded that Americans
WVk in Mexico be killed and their property
II destroyed
I f ' Evidencd has been accumulating,
I I eay Ameiican officials, that Carranza
H : troops have not moved into the moun-
B ' tain country in pursuit of Villa. They
declare Vil'la bands found refuge in
I ' the Sierra Madre mountains where
B , . they waited to strike at Americans
I ; who ventured beyond the range of
I ' Carranza soldiers, stationed at cities
; and towns, Including Palomas, Casas
: Cgandes and Madeira.
I ; Official advices contained the infor
m matlon that Villa bands occupied Go-
j mez Palacio, Durango and Parral un-
molested by de facto forces, that Go
B , mez Pjilacio was occupied "five days
Mt and finally abairtloned by General Ben
I jamin Argumedo, while approximately
j : 3000 Carranza troops were at Torreon,
1 . three miles awa'.
B Manager Investigating Deaths.
m Chicago, Jan. 12. II. L. Hollis, one
: ol the managers of tho Cusihulrachic
I Mining company is en route to El
Paso, Texas, today to investigate the
reported murder by Mexican bandits
of nineteen employes of the company.
HI C R. Watson and "W. J, Wallace,
H whose names appear In the list of the
U dead, were said by Mr. Hollis to have
& boen Chicagoaus. Watson, according
& to local agents of the Cusihulriachlc
If ompany, formerly resided in Michl-
II saVL
Mi President Ccfers With Secretaries.
Vj President Wilson was in communl-
f patlop arljr today with. Secretaries
Garrison and Lansing and gave in
structions to send to the White House
all facts as rapidly as they were re
ceived. Advices that at least six
teen Americans were killed were re
ceived by Major-Geueral Scott, chief
of staff of the army, also by the state
department.
At the White House It was declared
that what steps the government will
take have not .been decided.
State department officials referred
to the fact that Americans had been
warned, since the United States de
cided to recognize General Carranza,
to leave the states of Sbnora and
Chihuahua, which were then regard
ed as Villa strongholds. They said
that in spite of the official warning,
more than six hundred Americans
still remain in the district. Including
two hundred Mormons at Casas Gran
des An official list of the dead received
by the state department agrees with
the list contained in the news dis
patches, with the exception that It
dec-s not contain the name of Murray
Crossett of San Antonio.
Senators Are Shocked.
Administration senators said they
were shocked over the killing of
Americans, but were inclined to dis
courage hasty utterances or actions.
Chairman Stone of the foreign rela
tions committee, said he thought sen
ators should waft until official re
ports have been received.
,llt appears that the slaughter of
American citizens was the deed ot
b?udits," said Senator Stone. "Such
outlawry might occur in any country.
What can be done, I do not know. I
think that members of congress
should get all the facts available re
garding this crime before discussing
it."
United States Customs' Collector
Cobb at El Paso today reported that
his investigations seem to establish
that sixteen were killed. The state
department did not divulge the source
of Cobb's information, but they be
lieve his report is accurate.
Secretary Lansing issued a state
ment in which he said the state de
partment "feels that it took every pos
sible precaution to prevent Ameri
cans from exposing their lives In a
region whdre guerilla warfare Is in
progress and that it Is deplored that
its advice was not followed."
"Every step will be taken to see
that the perpetrators of this dastardly
crime are apprehended and punished."
PEOPLE AGAINST
POLICY OF U. S,
Mass Meeting to Be Called in
El Paso to Demand Pro
tection of Americans.
INDIGNATION INCREASES
Delay in Arrival of Bodies Stir
Up Residents of U. S.
Border Town.
EI Paso, Texas', Jan. 12. A commit
tee today was appointed to organize
a mass meeting of citizens to protest
against the policy of the United States
In the Mexican situation, and against
tho apparent failure of the Mexican
do facto government to protect Ameri
can citizens In Mexico travelling un
der promised of protection.
As an evidence of the alleged inef
ficiency of the Carranza military gov
ernment of Chihuahua it was learned
today that a troop train containing
75 soldiers were sent today from Ju
arez to protect the properties of the
Maderla Lumber company nt Pearson
and Madeira, western Chihuahua.
These properties represent invest
ments of nearly nine millions of dol
lars and it is feared are in a program
of Mexican bandits to be destroyed
together with all American lives.
Popular Indignation Increases.
"Delay in the arrival of the bodies
of the eighteen foreigners murdered
at Santa Ysabel January 10 has In
creased popular Indignation.
The bodies were reported last night
to have arrived at Chihuahua City.
They were reported from thero by
Mexican officials as having started
for the border. This morning official
advices from the mining association of
Chihuahua City wore that the train
uould not start for Juarez until this
afternoon and it was said the train
would not reach the border until mid
night. Arrangements have ben made by
Collector of Customs Zach L. Cobb
, and Mexican Consul Garrett to allow
the train to cross the international
bridge into El Paso without formality.
Goneral Pershing was also notified
that in view of tho state of public
feeling here, it would be wise to de
tail guards about the bridge ap
proaches tonight.
oo
SURVIVOR TELLS
OF MASSACRE
Only American to Escape
Death from Mexican Bandits
Gives Detailed Story.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 12. Thomas B.
Holmes, the only American to escape
tho massacre, arrived here about noon
today with a more detailed story of
the killing. Ho declared that the
train was halted at 2 p. m. by a band
of bandits which he estimated at
about 200.
After the Americans were taken off,
they were lined up along the side of
the track ana were ordered to dis
robe. Realizing what was about to
happen, he made a break for liberty
together with C. R. Watson. Tom Ev
an r and MaMachatan. They were
pursued by about fifteen bandits who
one after the other shot his compan
ions in the dash for life, but missed
Holmes. He said he ran about three
miles when noticing he was no long
er pursued he stopped exhausted.
Some ranchman came to his assist
ance loaned him a mule on which he
reached Chihuahua City the night of
January 10.
Watson's Head Blown Off.
Holmes said Watson's head was
blown off and that after the. bodies
were brought to Chihuahua City It
was found they had been riddled with
bullets and otherwise mutilated.
Holmes declared he did not know
who led the bandits.
A dispatch to the state department
asserts the murdered men were trav
eling under safe conducts issued by
military commanders of the Carranza
government and that they were ap
parently slain solely because they
were Americans.
no-
BARLOW B. WILSON IS
IDE JAILER IB
DESK SEIE1T
At the meeting of the city board o'
commissioners this morning, Barlow
B. Wilson, former county sheriff, was
appointed to the position of city jail
er and desk sergeant to succeed Hag
bart Anderson. Mr. Anderson was ap
pointed desk sergeant to succeed Emil
Johnson, resigned.
On the recommendation of Chief of
Police Thomas E. Browning, Charles
Plncock, captain , of the detective
force, and Thomas Burk, detective,
On the recommendation of Mayor A.
R. Heywood, O. H. Mohlman and J. P.
Kelliher were appointed sergeants on
the city police force, Alex L. Fife and
Grant Syphers were selected as de
tectives, Robert Burk was appointed
captain of the detective force and
George Smith was appointed guard
and weighmaster at the city jail to
succeed Thomas Lever.
The petition of property owners for
arc lights on Thirty-first street and
Madison avenue, and on 'Farley ave
nue, between Twelfth and Cross
streets were granted. The action of
the commissioners was based on the
recommendation of commissioner
Chris Flygare, superintendent of
streets
The claim of the Utah Light & Pow
er company for lights furnished the
city during the month of December, in
the sum of $2,063.22, was referred to
the committee of the whole. It Is es
timated that there Is a possibility of
retrenchment on the city light bills.
oo
RABIES BECOMES
SERIOUS MENACE
Nevada, Northern California,
Oregon and Idaho Delegates
Hold a Conference in
Winnemucca.
Winnemucca, Nevada, Jan. 12. At
a conference which was begun yes
terday morning and which probably
will, continue until late this afternoon,
the rabies situation In Nevada, north
ern California and southorn Oregon
and Idaho is being thoroughly discus
sed. Reports from 12 Nevada coun
ties, health officers from the sur
rounding states and several promin
ent cattlemen and ranchers wore pres
ent at the meeting which was pro
sided over by Governor Emmet D.
Boyle.
Reports from tho Nevada board of
health and the governor took up the
greater part of yesterday's session.
Committees Are Appointed.
Before the adjournment last night
committees wore appointed to act up
on the report and recommend action.
Each county representative is given
power to act for his counLy and the
measures outlined at the meeting for
checking the epidemic will bo follow-;
ed out by all counties in the states.
It seemed to be the prevailing opin
ion among the representatives that
the muzzling of dogs and the exter
mination of coyotes would be the best
'method for checking the spread or
the disease.
nn
OGDEN BIKS ELECT
THEIR BOARDS OF
DIRECTORS
The annual meeting of the First Na
tional Bank stockholders was held
yesterday afternoon and tho present
board of directors reelected to serve
for the ensuing year: M. S. Brown
ing. John Watson, L. R. Eccles, R. B.
Porter, W. W. Riter, D C. Eccles,
Joseph Scowcroft, A. T. Wright, John
Spiers, C. A. Day, Charles E. Kaiser,
W. F. Burton and Ezra Richardson.
The annual report presented by
Cashier James F. Burton showed the
bank to be in a prosperous condition
and to have enjoyed a steady increase
in business during 1915. The election
of officers will occurat the first meet
ing of the board of directors, to be
held early in February.
ugaen btate Bank. T
At the annual meeting of the stock
holders of the Ogden State Bank, held
yesterday, the following officers and
directors were reelected:
II. C. Bigelow, president; John M.
Browning, vice-president; A. P. Bige
low, cashier; E. L. Van Meter, asst.
cashier; H. C. Bigelow J. M. Brown
ing, J. N. Spargo, II. M. Rowe and
A. P. Bigelow, directors.
The regular quarterly dividend of
3 per cent and an extra dividend of 6
per cent were declared, making a
total of IS per cent for the year.
Pingree National Bank.
At the annual meeting of the stock
holders of the Pingree National bank
held yesterday, a new director, James
II. Riley, was elected. Mr. Riley will
fill the vacancy caused by the death
of James Mack.
The other directors were re-elected
as followsr James Pingree, J. W.
Abbott, E. P. Ellison, Charles Zelmer,
J. H. F. Last, Preston A. Blair, B. G.
Blackman, A- L, Brewer. C. A. Hen
ry, J. William Knight, O. B. Gilson,
llyrum Pingree, P. T. Wright and H.
C. Wood. The election of officers
will take place next Saturday at the
first meeting of the board of directors.
Commercial National Bank.
The annual meeting of the stock
holders of the Commercial National
bank, held yesterday, was marked by
the re-election of the present officers
and directors. The officers are:
Patrick Healy, president; A. G. Fell,
J. S. Iloutz and Adam Patterson, vice
presidents; R. A. Moyes, cashier, and
W. G. Emley, assistant cashier. These,
with the exception of Mr. Emley, and
the following: F. W. Herrington. Le
Roy Buchmiller, B. W. Staurod. D. A.
Smyth and G. S. Hadfield, form the
directorate.
The stockholders were pleased to
note in the report submitted by Cash
ier R. A. Moyes, an increase of $400.
000 in business for the j'ear, with a
surplus of $100,000 and undivided
profits amounting to $75,000 over the
$100,000 capital stock. This financial
showing, together with local real es
tate owned by the bank, the ' report
stated, marked the Commercial Nation
al bank as one of the most substan
tial financial Institutions In this part
of the country.
KfiflO BURGLAR FACES
1 OFFICER AND IS
CAPTOREO
From the pleasant pastime of eat
ing a piece of mince pie to the grim
realization that he .would soon face a
sojourn in the penitentiary, was tho
experience of John Thuringcr, a ne
gro, within the space of less than a
minute, early this morning.
He was caught in the act of mak
ing his exit from the Russell-James
store at Lincoln avenue and Twenty
fourth street, shortly after 3 o'clock,
by Patrolman R. ir. Wootten. who
took him to the police station, where
he was booked on a charge of burglary-
ui.,
COlf ERENCE OF TRE
WEBER STAKE 01
NEXT Sffly
The quarterly conference pf the
Weber stake will be held next Sun
day in tho Tabernacle, with sessions
nt 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. The event
will mark the 33rd anniversary of the
Incumbency of Lewis W. Shurtlil'f as
president of the Weber stake.
Among the principal speakers will
be Apostle Orson F. Whitney and
President Charles H. Hart of the First
, council of Seventy.
BITTER BLAST
IN SOUTHWEST
Temperature Drops from Zero
Downward Snow Falling
Over Large Territory.
TRAINS ARE DELAYED
Blizzard Prevails All Over
Kanses Weather Bureau
Reports 58 Below
in Canada.
Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 12. The
southwest got its first real blast of
winter weather today and nature's
offerings lived .up to advance notices
of the weather bureau. The mercury
dropped from thirty-five to sixty de
grees in twenty-four hours in the af
fected district and this morning tem
peratures ranging from zero down
ward prevail throughout Kansas,
Iowa, Nebraska and this section ot
Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas, too,
felt the drop. Snow is falling in
much of the territory.
"Fresh northwest winds will blow
the clouds away tonight and tomor
row wo look for temperatures rang
ing from 10 to 20 degrees below zero
In Kansas and this section of Mis
souri," said announcement of the lo
cal weather bureau
Train Service Delayed.
Train service into Kansas City is
delayed from one to two hours; street
car service in all of the cities affect
ed has been seriously interferred
with; telegraph and telephone com
panies are fighting vainly to maintain
communication on sleet-coated wires
and farmers and producers have been
warned that It is too cold to ship
perishable products.
In Kansas City the'' death list from
accidents as a result of the storm re
mained at two, while more than a
score of persons are in hospitals re
covering from injuries.
Eighteen Below at North Platte.
North Platte. Neb., reported the
lowest temperature in the new storm
area eighteen degrees below zero.
Omaha experienced eight below while
Des Moines reported the mercury at
zero. St. Louis, in the center of the
low pressure area extending from
that city to Memphis, Tenn., on 'the
other hand, had a temperature of forty-six
degrees above. Rain was fall
ing. Little Rock, Ark., also in this
area reported 70 degrees.
Blizzard in Kansas.
A blizzard prevailed all over Kan
sas. A snow measuring from two to
four inches fell in the state. Salina
reported the mercury at ten degrees
below zero. Concordia had a reading
of eight below; Wichita five below
and Junction City four below. At
Oklahoma City the mercury dropped
to four degrees above zero while
Abilene. Texas reported eighteen
above. "
Canada, 58 Below.
The weather bureau report publish
ed today shows a range of 18 degrees
in the United States this morning.
Little Rock had the highest reading
70 above while Prince Albert, Can
ada, has the lowest 5S below. The
map shows the northwest still is
firmly held by unprecedented cold
wave" that has prevailed In that sec
tion for a week. Temperatures of 48
degrees below zero In Montana, 40
below In North Dakota and 32 below
at Rapid City, S. D.. prevail.
Gale 50 Miles An Hour.
In Kansas the storm is the most
severe since the winter of 1912. A
gale from the northwest reached a
velocity of 50 miles an hour and car
ried blinding snow and sleet with it
The Union Pacific ran snow plows
ahead of its trains in central Kansas
this morning. The Santa Fe also
ordered its plows out and all trains
will be preceded by track cleaners this
afternoon.
Mercury Still Sinking.
Tho mercury began to sink at Kan
sas Citv during the morning. At noon
it had "descended to two degrees be
low zero. Additional Kansas tempera
tures Included seven below zero at
Clay Center, five below at Emporia
and six below at Pratt.
Scores of families that have been
depending on natural gas for heating
purposes put in hasty orders for other
fuel today. It is expected the gas
supply, which comes from the Kansas
fields", will reach its lowest point of
the winter tonight.
General Storm in Northwest.
Portland. Ore., Jan. 12. Six inches
of snow Impeded traffic here today,
with no signs of abatement of the
storm which was general except in
southern Oregon where it rained.
Some delay to railroad transporta
tion was reported.
Man Freezes to Death.
St. Joseph, Mo.. Jan. 12. John
Crook, OS years-old, was found in a
snow drift hero today, fatally frozen,
lie had loft his home last night on
an errand and became exhausted.
Nine Below In Omaha.
Omaha, Nebr., Jan. 12. On the
twenty-eighth anniversary of the most
terrible blizzard of which there is any
record In this section, during which
many persons and thousands of head
of stock perished from cold, tho mer
cury this morning registered nine de
grees bolow zero In Omaha. This
temperature was accompanied by a
heavy fall of snow and a strong north
wind. Street traffic was almost en
tirely suspended and railroad and
street car service badly crippled. All
telegraph wires to the cast were down
for several hours.
Siuox Rills reported tomporaturcs
ranging from 15 to 24 degrees below
zero with a snow and wind storm rag
ing. Norfolk, Nebr., reported 20 be
low aud Winner, S. D., forty below
zero. JU
FRENCH ATTACK ON OTMANFORCES I
IN CHAMPAGNE DISTRICT COLLAPSE I
Enemy Holds Positions North of Les Mesnil in Face of Stronz H
Assault A ong 1000-Yard Front Russians Have Con-
sohdated New Positions and Forced Austro-Germans
to Remove Supplies from Bases Prepared1 for H
Advance in Spring Campaign Turks Re-
port Annihilation of Allied Troops H
Left at Gallipoli. M
Berlin, Jan. 12, via London, The
collapse of a French attack on Ger
man positions north of Lcs Mesnil In
tho Champagne along the front cf
about 1,000 yards was nnounced by
the war office today.
London, Jan. 12. The official
French report of this afternoon, re
ceived here by wireless, follows:
"There were no events of import
ance last night 'except in the region
between the Meuse and ihe Argonne
where our batteries dispersed groups
of enemy sappers."
Constantinople War Report.
Constantinople, Jan. 11, via London,
Jan. 12, 7:20 a. m. The following of
ficial statement was issued tonight
by the Turkish war office:
'On Monday evening, debris, booty
and a number of dead bodies, but not
a single soldier of the enemy, remain
ed at Seddul Bahr. In the course of
our pursuit, the remainder of the en
emy who refused to surrender and
fled in the direction of the landing
places, were annihilated. On the left
wing in the sector of Kereves Derc,
we discovered a great quantity of
automatic mines, ninety of which
were destroyed by our engineers In
a small space.
"Irak front: On the night of Janu
ary' 6, the enemy, who had been sur
rounded In Kut-el-Amara, attempted
at many points to make sorties after
a vigorous bombardment. These were
repulsed with losses.
"On Januarjr S there was a heavy ar
tillery battle in the Black sea for half
an hour between the Turkish battle
cruiser Sultan Selim (formerly the
German cruiser Goeben) and the Rus
sian battleship Empress Maria. The
engagement was at long range. The
Sultan Selim was not damaged, while
a hit was observed on the Empress
Maria."
I
French Order to Troops.
Paris, Jan. 11, 5:05 p. m. General
Sarrail, commander of the French
army in the east, has issued a new
order to his troops, from which the
Saloniki correspondent of the Temps
quotes the following, as the most im
portant passage:
"I repeat again You must all, both
officers and men, observe toward the
officers of the Greek army of rank
superior to your own the authorized
rules of deference and the outward
marks of respect. You will be good
enough to entertain relations of friend
liest comradeship with the military
men of your own rank." ,
British Have Information.
Washington, Jan. 12. American
Consul Kemp at Marseilles cabled to
day that the crew of the Persia had
reached there and said because they
had given affidavits to the British au
thorities at Alexandria, Egypt, they
refused to give him any statements.
The state department will call on
the British government 'for the infor
mation they contain.
Review of War Situation.
London, Jan. 12 The announce
ment of the occupation of Mount Lov
cen, in Montenegro, though it is not
confirmed from entente sources, is
generally accepted here as true.
Uneasiness which is freely ex
pressed in Italy, is reflected in the
English and French newspapers. The
loss of Lovcen. from the point of view
of the allies is serious owing to the
fact that its summit dominates Cat
laro bay, the Austrian naval base. Be
fore Italy entered the war the French
had established a number of guns on
the mountain and had prepared em
placements for heavy guns which could
have swept tho bay" Austria, by seiz
ing it, forestalls this danger and is in
a commanding position with regard to
Cettlnje, the capital of Montenegro,
which is a little over six miles distant,
although mountains intervene.
Austrians Steadily Advancing.
The Austrian advance, considering
the distance to be covered, was much
slower than that made In the Teutonic
conquest of Serbia, but in considera
tion of formidable obstacles which tho
mountainous character of the country
presents, it is conceded that the forces
are making steady progress.
The question is being, raised as to
why the entente allies did not long ago
send aid to tho Montenegrins and in
particular why Italy, which Is more
acutely affected by this Austrian in
vasion, had not taken preventive meas
ures. Tho Austrians are noy only ten
miles from the capital of Montenegro,
calculating the distance over tho ex
isting roads, and a successful blow at
the heart of tho country may hayo tho
effect. It is said by military critics, of
isolating the troops who are defending
tne nortneastern rronuer.
Germans Have Advantage.
In Champagne the Germans hold a
slight gain made as a result. of the
determined offensive of last Saturday
and Sunday. The French military au
thorities say that tho Gorman forces
which delivered the attack lost heavi
ly as there were three divisions and
those advanced in the face of the
French artillery fire, which took a ter
rible toll.
Russians Are Successful.
From the eastern front it is report
ed that a comparative lull at present
prevails. Special dispatches affirm
that the Russians have been so suc-j
cessful In consolidating their new J
positions that 'tho Austro-Germans
have begun, to remove BuppHes from J
the bases which they had established H
in preparation -for the advance which
they intended to make in the coming H
spring. IH
The British forces under General jH
Townshend have made several sorties H
from Kut-el-Amara, on the Tigris, IH
each being repulsed with losses, ac- H
cording to tho current statement bv H
the Turkish war office. The officia'l H
communication says this force Is sur- H
rounded. H
It was announced, in London yester- fl
day that the British relief force com- H
ing up the Tigris was at a standstill fH
more than twenty mlleB down the, riv- M
er. The Turkish unofficial advices H
have claimed the defeat of this force H
with heavy loBses. The British de- H
clare they have the better of the sit- H
uation and that tho halt of General IH
Aylmer's relief column is because of IH
weather conditions and the necessity H
of removing their wounded by river. M
Long Range Naval Battle. H
A long range naval battle in the H
Black sea between the Turkish war- H
ship Sultan Selim, formerly the Ger- H
man cruiser Goeben, and the Russian H
battleship Empress Maria is reported H
by Constantinople. The latter was H
hit by the Turkish vessel's fire, but H
the Sultan Selim was undamaged, it M
is declared. Constantinople clalmB
that considerable losses were suffered M
by the entente forces in their evacua- H
tion of the tip of the Gallipoli penin- H
sula. Parties of the retreating troops IH
were wiped out, the Turkish state- IH
ment asserts. M
The German offensive in the Cham- H
pagne on Sunday was preceded by a M
twenty-four hour bombardment, one of
the heaviest the Germans have yet de-
veloped against the French lines, a IH
Paris dispatch states. A prompt coun-
ter attack gave the Germans no time IH
to organize the positions they carried
and negatived their effort, the dis- IH
London, Jan. 12, 3.10 a. m. The l
Times, in an editorial this morning, H
dealing with the position of the British H
forces in Mesopotamia and the chang- H
es of control in Egypt and the middle IH
east, desires the government to define H
the ultimate object of the British ad- H
vance in Mesopotamia. It says that H
no conceivable military object can iH
be gained by exposing the British for- H
ces In an . advance beyond Kut-ei- H
Amara and that it is highly important H
that the government should decide H
upon a clear policy for future oper- IH
ations in these regions and place them H
under command of one strong mau. H
Berlin, Jan. 12, via London. 3 p. m. H
An ammunition depot in the south- H
ern section of Lille, northern France, H
has been blown up. An official an- H
nouncement says that seventy persons H
were killed and forty injured. Con- H
siderable damage to property was H
OLD TIERS' HT I
AT TRE ELKS' CLUB I
The "Old Timers' Night" celebra- M
lion held at the Elks' club last night, M
proved one of the most enjoyable H
"stag" parties that has been staged H
by the Elks in many months. Senior H
members of the club were in power jH
throughout the evening, and, with A. H
G. Horn, past exalted ruler, at the H
helm and W. D. W. Zeller, E. O. Ol- M
sen, John Culley, Judge J. A. Howell H
W. C. Camp and J. H. Knauss In the H
other official positions, a jolly pro- H
gram was carried out. IH
One of the features of the evening JH
was the initiation or several of the jH
younger "Elks," after the manner of H
the old days. This act was perform- jH
ed with willing victims and provided IH
rare amusement for the crowd. M
Following the program of entertain- H
ment, which also included song H
speeches and recitations, the merry- H
makers partook of an excellent buffet H
luncheon. M
Deaths and Funerals
PETERSON The 'funeral of Mrs. H
Annie Larsen Peterson, wife of Lars H
Peterson, who died at hor homo in H
Huntsvillc, Monday afternoon, will be H
held tomorrow at 12 o'clock noon, in JM
the Huntsvillo meeting house. The H
service will bo conducted by Bishop H
John Hall. jH
FRAZIER William Fred Holland M
Frazior, six-year old son of Mr. and H
Mrs. T. C. Frazior of Clinton, died at H
2:30 yesterday at the home of his H
parents. Acute nephritis followed by H
diphtheria was the cause of death, IH
Private funeral services will be held H
at 10 a. m. Thursday. Interment Clin- H
ton cemetery. H
BOOTH Lorenno Booth, aged 21 H
vears, son of Mr. and Mrs. II. M. IH
Booth of Farr West, died Tuesday at H
Hnyden, Arizona, of peritonitis Tol- JH
lowing an operation for appendicitis. IH
He has boon employed the past six H
months in a copper plant at Hayden. H
Besides his parents, several brothers H
and sisters survive. The body will jH
arrive in Ogden Friday accompanied JH
by Ralph Bohne and will be taken to H
the Larkin mortuary pending funeral jM
arrangements. H
