UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1916
NUMBER 1L-
"I
SLEEPS
LATEiWIFE ON GUARD
OML'.V IIIMi .NOT FAVORED HERE
TiicmIii) Chili Fails to Approve l'lii
ral Examination of Children.
! Tlie Tuesday Club yesterday dcclin
ed to take action on the Owen Hill.
I now pending in Congress. This hill
01 y .,,, . . (provides for phsical examination of
51le bees 1 hat the Pianist Is school children. The national anti-
Undisturbed and That He
Wears His Rubbers.
IN A SPECIAL CAR
Artist's I Ielpmeet Is Absorb
ed in Work of Aiding
Polish Sufferers.
vivisection societ disapproves of the
hill, and is asking the women's clubs of
the United States to support the dis
approval The club voted to present the Y
M. ('. A. wilh a piiture in apprecia
tion of the us.- of the V M (' A
rooms for elub meetings
Lewi Aidzrocuii, insti in tut in iio
iiomics in the Universit, spoke to
the elub on "The Armenian Situation "
.Mr. Ardzrooni pointed out the difficult
position of the Armenians He said:
"Tlicj aie between two fires. Russia
and Turkey. If the United States is
going to stand for any moral force,
it is hoped that the convention which
signs for peace will make tome sort
of a guarantee foi small nations.
Miss Freda Pane read "Ten Minutes
This is what Pader-on a strcet Car.
They don't arise early the.se artists.
When one dines at midnight he is
not in shape to see newspaper re
porters at in the next morning. In
fact if one is a very great artist and
w-rj tempermental and then lias the
grip besides, he maj refuse to see a
leporter at all
ewski did todaj at his home on wheels
backed on a Wabash siding in Coluin-
SECOND PIKER GAME CETTINJE IS
EASIERJTHAN FIRST TO FIO TEUTONS
Washington Shoots Only Austrian Forces Are Tram -
Two Baskets in Whole
Game Score, 45-19.
pling Defenses of Montene
grin Capital.
SUBS GET A CIIANCEISHIPS AID ATTACK
siideyis i.i:vvk wave rvitrv
Mitire
Most
Scrub Team Plays
of Second I Ialf
Ames Next.
bia. He slumbered peacefully, while ue ('. Loier 1'ossilr, is One of the
rift Sailing for Home,
, THE HAGUE. Jan. 12 Fift col-
lege students, members of the Ford
peace expedition, left vesterda for
Rotterdam, from where they are
scheduled to sail on the steamer Noor
dam, due to arrive in New York Janu
arj 19. About 100 Americans still
remain at the Hague. Most of these
will sail for the United States Janu
arj 1!).
It is not kiiown for certain whether
I.ue C. Lozier, the Missouri student
with the Ford peace part, is with the
party of students bound for the United
States.
Itefore sailing, however, Mr. Lozier
said that he would trv to return in
time to resume his work in the School
of Law the second semester. If he is
with tiie party of students he will
easilj arrive In time to enroll Febru-
arj 1
VICTORY, PARIS SAYS
on Massiges.
Madame Paderewski talked much, oh
verv, very much, about her dolls, and
very, very little about the celebrity,
her husband.
"Am I neglecting ni husband In my
interest in the Polish Relief Fund?
Well, I hope not. You see, about all
I can do is to keep him undisturbed
-and see that he wears his rubbers.
Hut the poor people of Poland! Here
too my efforts seem only a drop in
the bucket when so many millions are
starving, but every doll that I sell is
a life saved and of course every life
is worm me enort. uur wnat ou
call it oh, ze slogan is "Buy a doll
and save a life.'
Children Mane fo Death.
"In Poland there are no longer any
babies to he .saved except the very
late arrivals. All the children under
S have stanrd to death. Everywhere
the desolate arc waiting, waiting,
sometimes for twelve hours at a time,
just to receive a piece of bread and
man unclothed, unfed, with rag
wrapped feet, are living in the snow
beneath the trees of Poland, until
death b freezing or staivation re-l25,0()0 German Soldier Re
lieves their Buffering Anl what I te(j Lost ; Atfack
ilfk I k nil Lfi liltlo " finil Imp tx'. 4
pressive, restless hands spread a pro
test against their impotency.
"Is that a sketch of me? Oh, oh,
cannot ou, for the sake of Mr. Pad
erewski, make me a little better look
ing? "See! This red-haired Zaza she is
Mr. Paderew ski's favorite, and she sits
alwajs on his piano when he prac
tices. (A stationary piano is a con
spicuous part of the car furnishings.)
You may hold her on your lap. No,
she is not for sale but vou know we
have duplicates."
It is a laige family , this family of
doil.s to which Madame Paderewski is
godmother and for whom she is tring
to find American homes (at from $."
to ?1." apiece) They were designed
lty artists, painters, sculptors and
needlcworkers, refugees from Poland,
and their quaint, multi-colored cos
tumes reproduce the holiday attire of
peasants in the various provinces of
Poland.
Each Doll Carries a Message.
A medal around each doll's neck
liears the inscription, "Health and
happiness to all kind doll lovers who
by taking into our heart and horn"
one of my little doll waifs have saved
a starving mother or her child in the
Saddest Land.'" They will be on sale
tonight after the toncert, which Pad
erewski will give in the Lnivr-it
Auditorium, beginning at S:lo.
The Paderewski household consists
of the viituoso and his wife, a maid
valet and secretary, and Madame Pad
erewski sas that life en tour is vei,
verv monotonous.
lly United Tress.
PARIS, Jan 12 Twenty-five thou
sand German soldiers were lost in an
assault on Massiges Sundaj, accord
ing to official announcements today.
The French forces have recaptuied
all of the ground lost during the last
vv eek.
.NATIONAL BBY MEEK MARCH 1-1 1
Mrs. C. IV. Greene One of Committee in
Charge in Missouri.
Mrs. C. W. Greene, as chairman of
the home economics department of
the Missouri Federation of Women's
Clubs, will be one of the women to
have charge of Baby Week in Mis
souri. A nation-wide baby week will
be held March 4 to 11. Julia Lathrop,
of the Bureau of Child Welfare, Wash
ington, D. C, has asked for the co
operation of the department of home
economics, civics and health in each
state.
Mrs. Greene said an effoit would be
made t have the women of Colum
bia take p the matter and contribute
to the nation-wide movement. She
said the co-operation might take an
form the local communit wished i
The second drubbing administered
bv the Tigers to tlie young men from
Washington University ended in a !.".-to-21
count at Rothwell Gvmnasium
last night, although a team of second
string men ripiesonted Missouri foi
half of the List period. As in the
game Monday night, Washington nude
not a .single held goal during the first
period
Iiusiek counted two points for the
Pikers earlv m the .second half and
Captain Rem edged one through the
net after Van'Gent's substitutes took
tlie lloor Berry made fifteen of his
tvv int -three free throws.
Few basketball games furnished
the thrills experienced bv the crowd
last night when an entire new team
leplaied the -Missouri first-string
men The .voungsters weie not skill
ed in the fine points of team plav,
but they were willing and had plen
tv of light At times there were tlnee
or four plavers piltd in a heap on tin
lloor in a wild scramble for the ball
Basketball recruits from the football
Held made use of their football train
ing. But the Tiger substitutes kent
the ball from the Pikers almost as
well as tiie regulars, and the fun was
mjo.ved bv the spectators.
Wear, the Tiger captain, made good
in thirteen of seventeen free"tlirows
i and Roloff, who replaced him, aicept-
ed two of hi:, three chain es. .Missouri's
team work and guarding weic- ood
Only at times was the goal shooting
what it should be i: M Todd, coach
. Columbia High School called til"
fouls Quigley-llko
Tonight the Tigers leave for Ames,
la. where Friday and Saturdav nights
the will go against a real team
Ames broke even with Kansas last
w eck
I.ast night's line-up-MISSOURI
(ir.) WASI1IXC.T0X (21)
Wear (C ). Roloft, If rg. (C ) Berry
Campbell, Shirkev. rf . Ig. Hewitt,
Grossman
Williams, shepard, e . c, Moll, Stout
IIde, Church, Ig rg, Goldman, Busiek
Speelman, Stankowski, rg. If, Miller
Baskets from the lloor Campbell
Williams 4. Il.vde 2, Speelman 2,
Thousands Are Being Slain
in Battles on Two Fron
tiers of Little Nation.
:
Ciilttil Press.
ROME, Jan.
12. Cettinje, tlie
capital of Montenegro, is doomed, ac
cording to dispatches here today. The
Austrian forces have taken Mount
I.ovcen, which dominates Cettinje, and
are pressing on toward the capital
city.
Thousands of Montenegrins have
been slain in their attemnts to de
fend their native soil. The country
is suffering from the same devastat
ing onslaught that was the experience
of its neighbor, Serbia, by the Aus
trian forces.
Mount Loveen is the strongest fort
ress in .Montenegro. In their attack
upon it, the Austrians were assisted
b.v fire from Austrian warships and
b.v the guns of the Cattaro forts. Bat
tles are also raging on the northern
and eastern frontiers of Montenegro.
HIE MEATHEK
nVi"r Co'i""ljI and vicinity: Snow with
,' ,"ur,,'lVt 'nls Mils afternoon and
nnllit. and severe uild .ne teuiiiera-
,.1' 'Vm" ,",1" lH'lon l,y Thnrsdiy uioru-
"r'ilur'.'U "'"' bt'Ion Zer ,em'
m.'r.,-M,l.r,ir.l: "'ledly colder tonight '
with northwest gale and severe cold ware-
u.',r',Z '"."'' U'.on' ""' u""-'h helow.
ii filr. tuMiT o.it portion.
Mrallier Condition).
I lit Iii IttV-Mlri U.iim iliit I. ...I t.
i" "lr In -Nw Mtx!co jesh-riHv morning
r IV ,7 . f irnK tt' lowvr half
.J IT. y'l'I'l Vill.j. ullh outer
I in winter Inn tl it m..... ......I
Hint .i rn.4 tx iw 1.1 iisn.H. ..,. ...ti .. . t
, .'" - ii. i"si;i lieu
Willi -i .end widesi.r.M.1 pm-lpltatlou.
.mil I lie iiresini nt. u in. eiivpilon to
l II." 1 Nil'
.Sle.1 nil. I siiub ,vi.r s, ()f (lie pj,,ls
lieh.e on norlliejsi to the hakes. hMIh
lo the soulli anil e-lst of the center licni
runs h ne f lllen.
A s, 4,re .old wje is .loselv rullnnlni;
in Hie w ilo- of the Io, mil severe .-old
ut-nlitr will pre ill in Coiiiml.il dnrlii
tlie next two diyn.
Local Data.
Tiie highest temperature in rolimiMi
Vestenl IV Is V.7 .mil tin- loui-vt h.i i.l ,l,t
was -Si; preiipit ition. 1 CT; relative InimiTli-
tV . II 111 VtsterdlV. 83 tier cent. A r.
Igo vestcrilir tlie hitrhest tfini.nr .torn ,r.Q
40 and the lonest '.'7: unilirlt ition. .00
The Almanac,
.sun rose lodiv. T-.Sc ..
T p. in.
Moon stts, J:r j ni.
Tlie Trinperaturcn Today.
' " ' 11 a. in 11
s a in . l. in 8
O.i. in l 1 p. in o
111 -I III '1 2 p. in, r,
MEXICANS MURDER 1
AMERICANS BBITI!
U. S. May Hold Carran
Responsible Officials
Ask Action.
ENGLAND TO PROTEt
Dyer Resolution Asks W
son to Enil Watchful
Waiting Policy.
in
Sun sets.
FKtnr riiritni i-iioik io oi'eka
Frames Ingram, HIn Mill Sing .Here
Tomorrow, Timglit hthool.
The struggle of a oung singer
whose work as a school teacher and
a church choir member was tlie only
support of a family of three girls, is
I! 1'nited Press.
WASHINGTON', Jan. 12. Ail Wa:
ington Is Indignant today over 1
murder of sixteen Americans and t
Englishmen by the Mexican Gene
Jose Rodriguez at Kilometer. It
thought that President CarraJiza w
be held responsible for the act.
England will prepare a sepan
note to be sent to the .Mexic
government. Representative Der
Missouri introduced a resolution
the House today asking the Preside
to bring his watchful waiting poll
to an end in the Mexican situation.
Senator Sherman of Illinois, in t
Senate asked for armed interventic
He also declared that United Stat
troops should remain in control
tlie country until a reliable gover
ment can be established.
REGENT INGERMANY?
Crown Prince Said to Have
Been Called to Berlin,
Kaiser Being 111.
in
1 iiilid Pros-
LONDON'. Ian 12 It is reported
fioni Switzerland here toda that the
German crown prince has beon re
called fioni the front to Berlin to
take the regenc of tiie German Em
pire on account of the illness of the
kaiser
uMv im:-i:i,kci' omenta
(!
Wear 1, Iiusiek 1, lierry 1. Haskets
on free tries lierry 1"., Wear 1", Ro
loff 2 Tree tries missed Iterr 7.
Wear 1, Roloft 1 Couls called -Iiusiek
10, Speelman fi. 11 de .", Stout,
Grossman 4. Wear, Campbell :!.
Shirkey, lierry 2. Williams, Miller,
Roloff, Stankowski, Moll Church
Referee, Todd (Columbia High) em
pire. Lampke (Northwestern)
CVMIT RVShKllUI.il 10 KMI .SOON
i m:i.f.ss corur is cu.i.kh
M'liiiliiials Mill He I'laji'd Tomorrow
and Saliirda.
The semifinals, in the military corn
pan basketball tournament will be
pla.ved tomorrow and Saturday. The
company winning the championship
will be presented with a cup at the
Military Rail January ."!!. Companies
Health contests, lectures by ministers I! and I) are leading the first battal-
and phsicians and even beauty con-on. Companies E and G the second
tests will be in order. i battalion. Gold medals will be given
to the plaers of the winning corn
Farmers' Meek Visitor h III. pany and bronz medals to the second
Walter Gee, a Farmers' Week visit-company 1:1 t ie race The l.n:.l gan-r
Stockholders of Room- Count Na
tional and Kxehange National .Meet.
The stockholders of the two nation
al banks of Columbia held their an
nual meetings csterday and elected
othcers and directors for 1916
There was but one change made in
the board of directors of the IJoone
Count National Hank Emmett Mc
Donnell was elected to succeed S E.
Lenoir, who asked to he relieved. The
other members of the board re-elect-er
are" R R. Price, Sr , II 11 Price,
Jr., C. R. Rollins, C. 11 Miller. Mar
shall Gordon, James S. Rollins, C. C.
Newman, J. C. Schvvabe. The officers
of the bank were re-elected as fol
lows: President, R. II. Price, Sr.;
vice-president, R. Ii. Price, Jr.; vice-
president, C. Ii Rollins; cashier, A.
G. Spencer; assistant cashier. E M.
Price.
The board of directors of the Ex
change National Rank remains tlie
same, as follows: C. R. Bowling, W.
T Anderson, J P. McBaine, S. P. Con
ley, C G Rowling, John S. Clarkson.
J. L. Liies, J. A Stewart and A. W
McAlester The officers were re
elected as follows: President, C. B.
Rowling, vice-president, W. T. An
derson; cashier, W. E Smith; assist
ant cashier, M. F. Thurston.
or from Andrew County, missed the I will be plav ed next week,
greater part of the week's entertain-1 Tlie cadet companies will hold a
ment and has been confined to his' track meet and baseball tournament
bed here on account of pnei.monla i in the snrini: The ronrlieK mmrovn
ii Vclloii Has Kier Keen Tried by H became sick Wednesdav of last of such moots. n Hipv l.rim-nut mm,
Tribunal at Holla. week. His mother, Mrs. George Gee, 'that otherwise would not take part in
The .southwestern division or tlie came t0 Columbia Sunday and is tak-1 athletics.
Eastern District Court of Missouri ing carc of ner Fon at 40S south
was convened at Rolia, Mo, today, xintli street. Mr. Gee is improving. Short Course. Knrnllnienf Xovv 201.
Since this court was established in Two more men entered the Short, the Examiner Printinc ComDanv
(. II. S. M ill Debate JTonfgoiiie.- City.
The debating team of Columbia
High School will go to Montgomery
City Friday to debate with the high
school team there Friday night Loren
Schnabel, Merritt Quinn and James
Bewick will make up the team. Al
lison Reppy, a member of the Unl
versit squad, is coaching the boys
for the contest.
My tafl
hm hi
CITY AWAITS BOHIKS
i Action Taken h Kitlirr Gover
ment to ATt-nge Act.
Ilr I'lilleil l'ress
EI. PASO, Tex , Jan. 12. A helples
enraged city awaits here today tl
arrival of the bodies of the America!
killed at Kilometer. It is understoc
that no steps have been taken cithi
by the United States or the officia
of President Carranza of Mexico i
avenge the murder.
lomorron.
To Indict Huerta
IS? I nitcil Press.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Jan. 12. Gel
eral Huerta, former Mexican revolt
tionist leader, will be indicted b
government authorities here to-oi
row. Most reliable informatio
states that he will be charged wit
violation of the neutrality of the Cnit
ed States.
15 YEARSJOR MU
Appeal Probable in Case o
Negro Who Killed
White Man.
Frances Ingram.
F. M". Rticker a Director.
Frank W. Rucker, who was gradu
ated from the School of Journalism in
1913, has been elected a director of
of
Dean .lames M rites for Itiillitm. Course in Agiiculture this morning ' Indenendwice. Mo. publishers of the
Copy for the jiext number of the I bruising tiie total up to 201 Nine are Jackson Examine r and tlie Independ-
...I.
mo, not a case for hearing has been
mi the docket. The court is merely
convened and immediately anervvaru series oi iivv uuiieiuis weiu to ine entered in the special creamery ence Examiner Mr. Rucker has been
adjourned. j printer today. The chief article is course P M Brandt, superintendent with the compaii over two years.
Deputy Marshall John Kennedy of "Some Aspects of the Status of Chil- of the short course, said the number William Southern, Jr., is president.
St Louis went there to conduct tiie.urcn' by uean tiuon k. James, bis would be about ten less than the en-1
annual ceremonies.
3L ('. Carr to Give Lecture.
Michael C. Carr will give an illus
trated lecture on "Svmbollsm and the
Other Arts" at 10 o'clock next Mon
day morning in Room 403, Academic
Hall He will compare the recent
s.vmbolism in literature with similar
movements in sculpture and painting.
cases are reviewed by the board of rollment last xear. Other schools Girls of C. II. S. fo Play Christian,
student editors. have fallen off about one-third. No The girls' basketball team of Co-
pecial reason Is given or the de-'lumbia High School will play the
Clinkscales to Address Club.
crease
E C. Clinkscales, former president ;
of the Commercial Club, wil talk at t
the noon luncheon of the club at Mrs '
J. W. Robinson's tomorrow. This is i Ninth
j Christian College team next Wednes-
. day night on the college court. Miss
Snow Del.is M'orl on Theater. I Llla Green has been elected captain
Work on the new Hall Theater at! of the high school team. This will
and Cherry streets has been i ho the first mnw other than class
one of a series of talks b former s'opped temporarily because of the congests for the high school girls this
presidents. j severe weather. season.
the story of Miss Frances Ingram,
contralto, who last ear scored a suc
cess with tlie Montreal Opera Com
pany. Miss Ingram Is giving a se
ries of concerts this season before be
ginning work with the Chicago Opera
Company. She will be in Columbia
at the University Auditorium tomor
row night, under the auspices of Phi
Mu Alpha.
.Miss Ingram was singing in a
Brooklyn church when Victor Maurel,
French baritone and a great operatic
coach, heard her and offered to give
her lessons at almost (Unbelievable
terms, because, he said, she was
"needed in grand opera." She taught
school and took six music lessons a
week. She impressed the manage
ment of the Chicago-Philadelphia
Opera Company and was chosen to
make her first stage appearance In
the role of Madellna In "Rlgoletto "
Her success was assured. In 1913-11
she had important roles with tlie Mon
treal Opera Company, and this season
has been re-engaged by the Chicago
Opera Company.
An appeal probably will be takei
from the verdict of fifteen years it
the penitentiary given Joe McKim, ne
gro slaer, by a jury in the Boone
County Circuit Court last night, ac
cording to E. C. Anderson, one of the
negro's attorne.vs.
McKim shot and killed Duskir
Shears, a white man, September 10
He was tried for first-degree murder
The case went to the jury late in the
afternoon and a verdict was reached
at 9:30 o'clock last night.
The parole sstem failed in the case
of Carey Johnson, a negro, tried for
assault with intent to kill this morn
ing. Two cars ago Johnson was
given two ears in the penitentiary
on a similar charge, but was paroled.
Judge Harris revoked the parole to
day and gave Johnson three years for
the second offense. Tlie new sen
tence will be served after the two
year term is over.
HAD REAL STORM AT M0HERLT
Gerrais Berry Made Editor.
Gervais Berry, a student In the Col
lege of Arts and Science of the Uni
versity from 1909 to 1912, has bei
made editor of the Chico Enterprise,;
an eight-page dally newspaper in
Chico, Cal. Since leaving the Uni-
Falllng Tree Smashed the Roof of J.
A. Owlngs House.
"You people In Columbia may think
ou are having a storm today, but
ou should have been In Moberly last
night to see and hear the real tiling,"
said J. A. Owings of Moberly. who
was In Columbia today on business.
"About 2 o'clock this morning," con
tinued Mr. Owings, "J heard a loud
noise unusually near the house. My
wife grabbed me by i the arm and
whispered 'Burglar!' I told her that
a robber surely wouldn't be entering
our house from the roof, and right
through the shingles at that. And
It wasn't a burglar. It was a part of
a large tree that had broken down
with the weight of ice and fallen on .
the roof. We spent the rest of the t
night, tr ing to keep out the sleet and I
rain."
ElizalH-tli Ann JicCasly Is Here.
A 7-pound girl was born to Mr.
versity he has worked on some large and Mrs. W. L. McCasky, 40G South
papers in California. He was on the Ninth street, at the Parker Memorial
San Francisco Call during the Pana-1 Hospital yesterday morning. The
ma-Pacific Exposition. I bab's name Is Elizabeth Ann.
