THE BARRE AILY TIMES'
VOL. XIX NO. 255.
ISAIUIK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JAXUAHY U, 1916.
rilICK, ONE CENT.
NAVAL BATTLE
ATLONG RANGE
IN BLACK SEA
PROGRESSIVES WILL
MEET CONCURRENTLY
WITH REPUBLICANS
Convention Will Ba Held at Chicago on
June 7 in the Hope That the Two
Parties May Agree Upon a
Candidate for President.
Chicago, Jan. 12. The Progressive
mi m i rm. i- cu Priy win nom us nations i nipvrann
The Turks Claim That bnots I,,,,, 7 in Chicago, concurrently witu
mi. ntr Cl tne convention of llio Republican party
from liieir Warsnip Olll- in the hop, tmlt th may agree upon
r. .t. t the same candidate for president, inia
tan beiim DtrUCK AUbbldll action wag dw;(t.d upon yesterday
Tnl,; PmeU MQMo Forty-seven of the 4fl state were rep
Ucvtucsiuu u'l'ivijo Auuxiu resented at the meeting. .Before ad
tiru:i u t),,.,,--,. PotloI journment the committee adopted a dec
While the Russians t ailed HrRtion of princip,e. in whirh ti.e ad
ministration of President Wilson was
criticized for ita alleged failure to deal
adequately with national honor and in
dustrial welfare, and the Progressive
party went on record as favoring a com
plete preparedness program, consisting
of military armament as wen as a mo
to Land Shots
BRITISH RELIEF ARMY
nTTTTTMFC! PFPTTLSED bilization of all the country's resources
ur i iuiiO jxcjs: vxjauui uh a vjew of the uniflCRtion o Ameri.
can citizenship,
A message was read fi"om Tlieodore
R,naev,.lt nrnrinir fhn necessit.v for ade-
I The Turkish War Office SayS quate preparedness, which was enthusi-
lasticany appiauaeu. rrogressivc iubu
. That General Townsend S ers declared that there would be no
hit j r .amalgamation with the Kepubiican
1TOODS Wave Made OCVerai nartv. even in the event of both parties
,. " T-r , t-ii a I choosing the same presidential cand
bOrtieS irom IVUt-XLil-Ama- date. The Progressive party plana to
i , t-, . m txf I nominate a national ticket at its con-
rabut Each Time Were Lention in June.
Many of the party leaders declared
that if the Republicans will nominate
Roosevelt, or any other man who is re
garded as unobjectionable and will in
corporate in their platform the salient
features of the Progressive principles,
both parties will unite on the same can
didate in Chicago next June.
Driven Back
British forces under General Town
send have made several sorties from Jut-El-Amara
on the Tigris, each time being
repulsed with losses, according to the
Turkish war office. The official state
ment makes definite assertion that this
force is surrounded.
A long-range naval battle in the Black Charles Porter, Who Disappeared from
VT. POSTMASTER
TO FACE CHARGE
U.S. DEMANDS
MURDERERS'
PUNISHMENT
APPRAISING BANK STOCK.
Secretary Lansing Makes a
Formal Demand on Car-
ranza to Act in the Case
of the Slaughter of 17
Americans in Chihuahua
Monday Night
WILSON IS CONCERNED
OVER TURN OF AFFAIR
t Is Feared That the Out
break Will Furnish Occa
sion of a New Attack on
the Administration's Pol
icy in Recognizing Car
ranza Government
To Secure Uniformity Throughout State
for Taxation Purposes.
State Treasurer Walter F. Keott, Han
Commissioner Frank C. Williams an
Commissioner of Taxes Charles A. Plum
ley were at the State llc'jso to-day, act
lug in their capacity as appraisers
bank stock, ex-offieio, pursuant to the
provisions of No. 31 of the acts of 101.5,
which constitutes them a board of ap
praisers, whose duty it shall be in the
month of January, in each year, to ap
praise at a fair and just value the cripi
tal stock of all the banks in the state of
Vermont which are required to make re
ports to the commissioner of taxess
Section two of the above-mentioned
act provides that this board shall first
determine the total true cash value of all
such shares of stock in suid several cor
porations, but if any such corporation
owns and pays taxes npon real estate,
the assessed value of the same shall be
deducted from the total value of such
shares, and the remainder of such total
value, divided by the total number of
shares, shall be taken as the valuation
for taxation purposes of each of such
shares.
The act then goes on to provide for an
appeal on the part of the banks if they
are - dissatisfied with the appraisal as
made, to the board of appeals which
ears appeals in the cone of railroad and
telephone appraisals.
The act alii provides that when the
appraisal is finally settled and estab
lished, the commissioner of taxes shall
notify the board of listers in each town
as to the value placed Qn each ahare of
stock in the several banks of the state.
Everyone who has anything to do with
ax matters or who heard the discussion
in the legislature when this law was
pending realizes that one of the great
nequalities in taxation arises from the
lack of uniformity the appraisal of
shares of bank stock in the different
Guildhall, Is Brought Back and
Will Be Formally Accused
of Embezzlement.
Rutland, Jan. 12. Charles Forter,
sea between the Turkish warship, Sul
tan Selim, formerly the German cruiser
Goeben, and the Russian battleship Em
press Maria is reported by Constanti
nople. The Empress Maria was hit by
the Turkish vessel's fire but the Sultan postmaster at Guildhall in Essex county
'. i. 3 j 14. i. was turned over by United States Mar-
seum was noi uuu.Bcu, ,t T c an(, Thoffig8 Qi.
Constantinople claims that consider- banck of chicago yesterday and he will
able losses were sustained by the en- be arraigned before J. A. Merrill on a
tente forces in the evacuation of the tip charge of embezzlement. He was lodged
of the Gallipoli peninsula. Parties of in h" 0"M of ,cor.recV!V?n tbe n,g'
. t , Mr- Porter, who is about 30 years old,
the retreating troops who refused to sur- wgg arregte(1 in Rockford, 111., and he is
' render and fled toward the landing places charged with embezzlement of funds
were wiped out, the Turkish statement from the government while acting as
....ft. , . postmaster. Jt is unaersiooa mat, aner
. . receiving a letter from his wife, Porter
" f t repentant and notified the govern-
on aunaay was preceaea oy nours ment officers of his desire to give nun
bombardment, one of the heaviest the I self up,
Germans hare yet developed against the
French line, a Paris dispatch states.
Washington, D. C. Jan. 12. Secre
tary of State Lansing to-day telegraphed
General Carranza calling for prompt pun
ishment of the bandits who executed
seventeen Americans near Chihuahua towns throughout the state,
Monday. Through tliseo Arredondo, the Instead of having the listers in every
newly appointed Mexican ambassador, town in the state appraise this bank
was arranged to bring the bodies from stock and, as a result, having almost
lihuahna to Juarez to-day by special as manv different valuations as there
train. Uliicial dispatches from l hilnia- are boards of listers, the board appoint
hua to the state department to-day said ed by this act will make the appraisal
that the bodies arrived in that city last and certify the same to the listers, and
night. the result will be a unilorm valuation,
At the White House and at the state and therefore taxation on a uniform
department thera was unconcealed anxi- basis on the sa.me stock throughout the
ety over the situation and concern that state. In making their valuation, the
the latest outbreak in Mexico might board of appraisers is governed and eon
be made, the vehicle for further attacks trolled by substantially the same law
by the opposition in Congress upon the as that under which listers in the several
administration s foreign policy and its towns have acted flerelotore,
recognition of General Carranza.
STORM RAGES
IN WEST AND
FLOOD, SOUTH
INSTALLATION ENDS IN DANCE.
Chicago Was Struck by a
Red Men and Their "Sisters" Had En
joyable Occasion.
At the regular meeting of Iroquois
tribe, No. 10, I. O. R. M., lust evening,
the joint raising of chiefs took place.
The chiefs of Winiietta council, No 10,
were arised to the respective stations
by Deputy Sadie Lcrmoiid of Winona
council, No. 8, of East Barre, assist
ed by the senior past chief, Mrs. Avery,
of East lturrc, as follows:
Mary Angus, Pocahontas; Isabella
Thompson. Wenouah; Peter Drown,
SnOVV and Sleet DownpOUr I,owl'atan; Annabell Cormack, prophet-
ess: Annie Drown, keener of records.
Which CaUSed Death and adress, 7 Kirk street; Alice Dresett,
collector of wampum, address, 1 Smith
Injury, Besides Hamper- place; Mary Walker, keeper of warn-
mini? tinmita 1f f ' hnriiiA Mi-Kimtoti.
ing" Street Car Traffic and 2d, Helen Manson; runners, 1st, Nellie
niancui, xa, jcssie uauiu, couiiciimm,
1st, Margaret Ingram, 2d, Elsie GuaM;
warriors, 1st, J. Margaret Drown, 2d,
Lizzie McDonald, 3d, Helen Dlack, 4th,
Jessie Taylor; braves, 1st, (ieorge
Brand, 2d, James Ilothnie, 3d, Alexander
Simpson, 4th, William Pirie; guard of
tepee, Isabella Gibson; guard of forest,
Annie Greig; trustee for three years,
Annabel I Cormack.
The chiefs of Winnetta council then
vacated their stations for the chiefs of
rincipal Street Six Feet i"-ii who , d,.iy raised to
. their rpsiectiv stations bv Denutv
Dppn nrul Wntpr Still T? is- Great Sachem F. A. Lcrmond of Wu-
1 f chosen tribe, No. 19, of E.
WANT TO SELL
"TOWN HOUSE"
City Fathers Get Recom
mendation from Prop
erty Committee
Wire Communication
WESTON, W. VA., SWEPT
BY A GREAT FLOOD
BUILDING REPORTED
IN FAIR CONDITION
The City Har A Reported
to & f; Good
V'ape
East liarre, as.
incr One Person Drowned 6iHU' by AIcx JOM j?1 prophet, ami
to Dr. E. C. Barrett of Sioux tribe, No
and Scores Of Families 23, of Montpelier, great sannap.
1 he following- chiefs took the oath of
office: (...'orge Branw, sachem; Joe Col
lins, senior sagamore; James McDonald,
junior sagamore; Charles II. Scott, pro
phet; Ira-E. Wright, chief of records,
address. Box 64, South Darre, 'phone
38-4; Peter Brown, collector of wam
pum, address, 7 Kirk street; James
Rothnjf, keeper of wampum; George
Murray, jr., guard of wigwam; James M.
Taylor, guard of forest; manna ps, 1st,
Were Driven from Their
Homes
VERMONT'S DAIRY NEEDS
Prompt counter attacks gave the Ger- Are Being Considered at 46th Annual
mans no time to organize the positions
they had carried and negatived their ef
forts, the dispatch adds.
Convention in Burlington.
Burlington. Jan. 12. An informal re
ception was tendered last evening by the
olhcers to the members of the Vermont
Dairymen's association, which is hold
ing its 46th annual convention in ar
AMMUNITION DEPOT
T ACT UV r"I?I?Tlf a-mo morv hal1- The rw"Ption WR he,d ln tlie
LiVo I iSl UEilvMAIN & Hotel Vermont roof garden.
Features of the afternoon meeting
Their Depot in Southern Section of Lille I were the annual message of the presi-
Was Blown Up with Loss of 70
Lives and Injury to 40
People.
Berlin, via London, Jan. 12. An am
munition depot in the southern section
of Lille in northern France has been
dent, reports of officers, and papers by
Professor Dardlee of the university ex
tension service and Professor George E.
Story of the University of Vermont on
Vermont as a Livestock State.
Speakers at the annual banquet to be
held at the Van Ness house Thursday
.Secretary Jansings only announce
ment was that the United States would
look to General Carranza for satisfac
tion. The question of what steps the
United States will take depends upon
the development of the. facts. It was
pointed out that the Americans had been
warned since the United States decided
to recognize Carranza to leave the states
of Sonora and Chihuahua, then regarded I
as Villa strongholds, but in spite of the!
SAME BEARERS FOR BOTH.
Murdered Woman and Her Slayer were
Buried Yesterday Afternoon.
From the mortuary chapel of the Per
ry fc Noonan undertaking establish
ment on Depot square yesterday after
noon the remains of a man and a wom
an, the one a murderer-Buicide and the
warnings more than 000 Americans still other !,a vi('ti.m. of. ,,is j,ouy. wcr
remain in the district. ' removed to tneir last remng place,,
isearers lor botn lunerais were tlie same
Conditional Intervention Proposed Unj 0I,iv a knot of people gathered to
iu fciMie. participate in the obsequies, lb body
As soon as the Senate assembled, Sen- of Mrs. Luigi Lungo, who was shot
ator Sherman, Kepubiican, introduced a down in her home, Id Third street, Fn
resolution proposing intervention in Mex- dav evening by Antonio Cafli. was taken
ico by the United States and the six Pan- at 2 o'clock to St. Monica's church, where
American nations which have acted with Rev, Fr. P. M. MeKenna officiated at
it m Mexican affairs, unless General Car- the services. The bearers were G. Da-
nazzan, R. Pancri, G. Albano and G
Longo. A few women acquaintances of
Mrs. Lungos nationality followed the
remains to the church, but the bearers
formed the only escort when the body
was taken to the Catholic cemetery on
Weston, W. Va., Jan. 12. Flood wa
ters from the west fork of the Mononga
hela river covered the principal street
of the city six feet deep to-day and they John Milne, 2d, Guy Oltilini; warriors.
are still rising. One iierson is known to 1st, George fraser, 2d, Alex Lawson, .id,
have drowned and scores of families
have been driven from their homes.
Street car lines and steam railroads have
suspended traffic and the electric light
plant and water works are out of com
mission. The river began rising late
yesterday after a long rainfall.
Charles Mason, 4th, Alex Miller; braveB,
1st, Joe Eraser, 2d, John trooper, 3d,
James Glass, 4th, John McDonald; trus
tee for three years, Alex Ross; medicine
ninn, Dr. J. A. Wark.
Following the raising ceremony, corn
and venison were served, and after all
had done ample justice, the floor was
r i.i i j..,i i ,lnu lul
. . , . i iirairu mill imiiiiuu wf. cniir.ni
Vj -"-."-. about 00 couplea until a late hour.'Mu
... . , . , . . ...I sie was furnished -by the Iroquois or-
r(il-TYl u-ln'h filnii-lr I limnrrr. Innr. turrhr 1
I .1 i J. i c. t. ".."fijllM
iiu connnueu io-uay. Augusi, ocuuuz,
an iceman, slipped while-carrying a big
cake and fell with the ice on top of ODD FELLOW-REBEKAH ASSEMBLY
lilm. I lie oilier accidents also were due
chiefly to the slippery sleet-crusted side
walks. Surface and elevated traffic and
wire communication were seriously ham
pered.
CASE STRICKEN OFF.
That of Quarry Savings Bank vs. Prindle
and Kendrick.
arnza complies with the demand to pro
tect foreign lives and property.
1 i aso, J ex., Jan. 12 .Seventeen per
sons, all believed to have been Amerr
cans, were killed by Mexican bandits
Monday after being taken from a Mex
blown
The official announcement evening will include Governor Charles
says that i0 were killed and 40 injured.
There was considerable property dam
age. The war office also announced the fail
ure of a French attack on German posi
tions north of LeMesnil in Champagne
along a front of 1,000 yards.
BURGER WOMAN
TELLS OF SHOOTING
W. Gates, Joe Mitchel Chappie, Presi
dent Thomas of Middlebury college and
Bob Seeds. Mr. Seeds comes from Penn
sylvania and has a reputation as a humorist.
The report of the treasurer to-day
showed .$1,3111 on hand and over 7H)
members. There are ninety exhibits of
butter and the score is unusually high.
CONFERENCE ON CHARITY.
She and Dr. Mohr Were Riding to New
port When Auto Stopped and After
the Chauffeur Got Out She
Heard a Shot.
Providence, R. I., Jan. 12. Miss Emily
G. Burger, secretary to Dr. C. Franklin
Mohr, and jealousy of whom the state
First To Be Held in Vermont Is Meeting
in Burlington.
Burlington. Jan. 12. The opening ses
sion of the Vermont Conference of Char
ities and Correction, the first meeting
of its kind to be held in Vermont,
opened yesterday afternoon at the Hotel
Vermont with an attendance of repre
sentative citizens from all parts of the
alleges was a contributing motive ior Afavor Tlrw tl
his murder at the instigation of his wife, L,ateg and Governor Charles W. Gates
ii.. : ' l : , f il. I
and President Gny Potter Benton of the
University of Vermont extended greet
ings. -
A discussion of the scope and value of
a state, conference along the lines pro
posed was led by Dr. Fred S. Knight,
superintendent of the Little Wanderers'
home in Boston. Dr. II. Hastings Bart
ico-Northwestern train 50 miles west TWklev street and here interred in a
or Ultima liua City, robbed and stripped small grave.
of their clothing, according to a message if cie friends of the murdered worn
received here last night by H. C. Mylcs, n. restrained their trrief at her funeral.
untisn vice consul uere, irom nritisn the manifestations of sorrow were even
t.onsul bcovell at Chihuahua City. less noticeable an hour later when
The train on which the Americans brief service at the mortuary preceded
were traveling from Chihuahua City to the removal of Caffi's body" to Hope
uisinuiriacni, ciiinuuiiua, carrieu tliou- cemetery. A short time before a lium
sands of dollars in currency and a large ber of people called at the' chapel to
quantity or supplies sent oy tne Amer- view the remains, but the liearers, Da-
ican Smelting and Refining company to nazzan, Pancri, Albano and Longo, were
its mines in Ciisihuiriachic. the only ones to accompany the body
It is believed here that all of the 18 to the grave.
American mining men known to have
been in Chihuahua City were on board
the looted train. FUNERAL OF MRS. CLARA M. PAPE
Thomas M. Holmes, the only known ", .
survivor, stated, however, in "his brief Was Held from Her Late Home on Mer-
telegram giving the first news of the chant Strcet Tuesday Afternoon,
raid, that he counted only 16 Americans
taken from the train. Funeral services for Mrs. Clara M.
A message received late yesterday by P'. wife of t,,e ,atc Leard W. Pape,
officials of the Mexican Northwestern w,,u P""-u y i m-r umnv, no sier
ra
com
was the principal witness for the prose
cut ion to-dey. It was the first time
MJss Burger, who was with the physi
cian on the night of the shooting and
who herself was herself injured,' has
told her version of the affair, and Mrs.
Mohr and the two negroes, eodefendants,
listened attentively.
Miss Uurger said she was in the rear of t),e RIISBell Sage Foundation spoke
seat of the automobile on the night of on -child Saving," and General Lee S.
Aug. 31 on the way to Newport, and Jillotson discussed the probation svs
when at a dark spot in Barrmgton the tem. J. E. Weeks of Middlebury, chair
machine, she said, suddenly stopped, man'of the penal board, spoke on the
r.eorge llealis. the nepro chauffeur, who institution under the supervision of his
has turned state s evidence, got out of board
the machine, remarking something about
ilroad from officials at Chihuahua City 'hflrit street, Saturday evening after a
ncludes: long illness, were held at the house on
"Holmes watched his companions be- '"esuay afternoon at 2:J(i o clock. Kev.
tr!,,nH hv Kn,iia Ti..,.. J. W. Harnett, paetor of the Harre ten
dered them to march toward" the wet. Rregational church where Mrs. Pape was
Officers of Former's Departments Were
Installed.
Canton Vinton, No. 9, Patriarchs Mili
tant and Minnehaha encampment, No. 2,
met together at Odd Fellows hall last
evening for the joint installation of offi
cers elected bv the two bodies late in
1915. . Ned C. Buck of Randolph, district
deputy grand patriarch, with the assist-
Tho ease of Onarrv Kavinrs Rank & nce ot r. J., bawyer ot .Randolph, Uis-
Trust enmrmnv vs. IVindlc nnd Kendrick trict deputy grand junior warden, in-
general assumpsit, has been stricken off stalled the encampment officers and the
the docket in Washington county court officers of Canton Vinton were inducted
by an entry of discontinued without '"to office by Alexander Duncan, colonel,
costs. The case carried with it the Bug- wh as assisted by D. V. Stone, ad-
gestion of bankruptcy, and the defend-1 jutant general, arm r ran . jacicson,
ants were long ago adjudged bankrupt. PBSl coionei, as assistant aojutani.
Yesterday afternoon Ju.ige Waterman The ceremonies served to assemble a
overruled motions made bv the defend- 'arge number of Odd Fellows and Re
ant in the case of Edward H. Deavitt vs. bekahs. After the installation, the
Frank M. Corry to dismiss the case and members of Canton Vinton gave an ex
to revoke the reference of the account, hibition, drill and a drill down. A sub-
The defendant, through his attorney, stantial buffet luncheon was one of the
Harry C. Shurtleff, has filed exceptions enjoyable features ot the evening.
to the ruling. I Encampment officers for 101(5 are:
To-day the Canning divorce suit was M-met patriarch, rred u. liecklcy; high
resumed, and the two witnesses exam- priest, Harry W. Clark; senior warden,
ined were Mr. Flannagan, formerly in John S. Howell; scribe. L. C. Heck;
the employ of James Ryle, who testified treasurer, AV. E. Reck; junior warden,
yesterday, and Julian O. Goodrich, a civil Denntson Densmore; guide. Elmer M.
engineer of Newport. The latter was the Fulsoinj first watch, C. L. Webster; sec
first witness called by the defense.
DARLING AGAIN PRESIDENT.
motor trouble. A moment later a shot
rang out and she realized that she had
been shot. The doctor's body fell over
against her and she heard llealis' "Oh,
my Ciod."
Miss Burger admitted she was a close
friend of Dr. Mohr and that he hsd vis
ited her home almost every day for five
years preceding his death.
KOENIG SURRENDERS.
Ts Answer to Charge of Implication in
Theft of Papers.
New York. Jan. 12 Paul Koenig. head
f( the itcmburg-Arneriran line detec
tive buearu, surrendered late yeterday Merrhant street were given an sgr-eable
TALK OF THE TOWN
Holmes escaped in the darkness.
"In a few minutes he heard shrieks
immediately followed by a fusillade of
shots from the direction taken by the
Americans and their captors."
It was said at the Mexican consulate
last night that no report of the killing
had been communicated to General Car
ranza because it would be "useless."
A verified list of American mining
men in Chihuahua was prepared here
from records of Mexican passports is
sued. This list contained IS names and
as the message places -the number taken
from the train as 17 it is presumed
one remained in Chihuahua. The list
follows: j
an attendant, was the officiating clergy
man. During the services Mrs. Gladys
Bradley and Miss Glee Wood sang.
crossing i lie liar. l he Hearers were:
Arthur E. Campbell, Herman N. Camp
bell, Joseph Hoyt, James F. Higgins,
Charles A. Spear and J. Gould More.
Interment wa made in tne family lot in
Hope cemetery.
HELD AT ST. MONICA'S.
Funeral of Charles Matott, Who Died
Saturday.
The funeral of Charles Matott, a long
time employe of the city street depart
ment, whose death at his home, 112
Was Chosen to Head the American Fi
delity Co.
- The following directors were re-elect
ed yesterday afternoon at the annual
meeting of the American Fidelity com
pany held in the company s office in
Montpelier: Charles H. Darling, Bur
lington. C. J. Gleason and Cecil Piatt,
New York, L. D. Taft, B. H. Bailey,
ieorge L. Blanchard, Henry L. Farwell
nc Kalph B. Denny. Montpelier. The
directors re- -lected these ollicers: Pres
ident, Charles M. Darling; vice presi -
ent, B. B. Bailey; secretary, Ralph B.
Denny.
1 he financial statement made public
at this meeting showed the capital stock
to be $305,500; surplus, 127,S20.82; loss
reserve, $213,103.48; reserve, f 172,
754.78; reserve for commissions $24,
0!I(1.!(0; reserve for taxes, $0,420.37: oth
er reserves except capital, $2,03S.15.
BARRE SAVINGS BANK
ond watch, Hugh G. Boyee; third watch,
O. C Averill; fourth watch, O. E. Phil
brick; inside sentinel. O. C. Averill; out
side sentinel, AV. J. Loughheed.
Officers installed for Canton V inton
are: Captain, Dennison Densmore; lieu
tenant, Elmer M. Fulsom; ensign,. O. C.
I Averill; clerk, O. E. Philbrick.
CLUB WOMEN ENTERTAINERS
Mrs. George Robertson of Summer
street was removed to the City hospital , Romero, Maurice Anderson,
last evening in A. . Ha deer & com- Hatton. A Couch. E,
C. R. Watson, maneger and large
l.l I ..!.'... ....... -
, V . ""T'i Brooklyn street. Saturday afternoon
nun . i . iiHtr, x . ii. r.vHnu, . n. !
R. P. M
followed a two weeks' illness of pneu-
paov's ambulance.
The civic department of the woman's
club will hjild a mid-winter rummage
sale in tbe emergency room, city hall,
Saturday afternoon. Jan. 15. from 2 to
5 o'clock. Good values in mens over
coats and women's outside garment.
Contributions asked for and may be left
at Mrs. Shepard's store or at the emer
gency room after 1 p. m. Saturday
Mr. and Mrs. E N. Norniandeau of
tii n ii i a u I , I a f s f.,n,.,n ,,rh
T li..l.. l,- ' ...... a .i.ui...
r.iMiinson, t. . 1 1 1.
it i,i
ii. iioimes anil -lu.,.. i xi it l- .
Newman, Thomas
Blonih. all of El Psso;W. A. Iringl(:
San Francisco; Alex Hall, Doiiglatt, Ari
zona; tharles Uadleich, Jack Jas., R,
H. Simmons, .1. Adams and J. Jones.
NEW DIRECTORS CHOSEN
to Iitr-t Attorney wann to answer
to a warrant charging him with being
implicated in the theft of papers from
the National City bank. '
Koenig as svrnined in tbe Tombs
court and held in I1..VKI bail on at fed
eral charge of conspiring to blow op
the Welland ranaL
Koeriic'i arrmt by the state aiithoriti
follows that cf Frvderirk ShleindU a
clerk in the bank. hn is accuse. of l.av
it abetrarted telegrams and Mtier pa-
per rUting tn the supplt ir,g if muni-!
txn to tLe
For St. Johnsbury Bank Includes Name
of H. W. Varnnm.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 12. Three new
surprise last evening by about thirty 'directors, t. G. Indrv of St. Johnsbury.
of their friends, the ocrion being Mr. j IL W. Yarnum of Harre and R. W. I tens
and Mrs. Normandeau's taelfth anni-'mote of We-t Burke, were elected yes
vrsary. The evening was sjnt with.terday at the annual meeting of 'the
music and a general social time and a i C.tiens' Savings Bank and Trust l.
hinch wa served. John N. lm, jr in,'Tbe Firt National bank etecte.1 a new
behalf of the friends, p-ent tbe director. Z. S. Waterman. ve-terdv and
hot and hostess a chair. Mr. Norman- John
morning at 9 o'clock, the pastor,
P. M. MeKenna, officiating. The
bearers were four brothers of the de
ceased. Henry, Chauncy and Benjamin
Matott of Chaay. N. YM and Joseph Ma
tott of Cham plain, N. Y. Among those
in attendance were a minbrr of rela
tives from northern New York. Inter
ment is to be made in the Catholic
cemetery on Rccklcy street.
Elected Directors Yesterday Afternoon
F. G. Howlahd Again President.
A year of progress along mnltitple
lines was reported at the annual meet
ing of the Barre Savings Hnnk J. Trust
company, held luesday afternoon, the
stockholders elected the following direc
tors: F. (J. llowland. Homer Fitts, E. A.
Bugbee, M. E. Howland. C. F. Millar and
W. A. Drew. Afterward the directors
met and elected the following officers:
President, F. G. Howland; vice-president.
Homer Fitts; treasurer, W. A.
Drew; secretary, Miss Mary J. Wright.
All ollicers were re-elected.
At Concert and Dance in Howland Hall
Last Evening.
A large number of people gathered at
Howland hall Inst evening for a concert
and dance under the direction of the
civic department of the liarre Woman's
club. It was ''gcptlemen's night" as
well, ami consequently many iu addition
to the club membership were permitted
to participate in an enjoyable occasion.
A concert program of rare excellence
was given by three musicians from Bur
lington, they being Miss Lillian Magner,
violinist; Miss Mary Magner; flutist,
and Miss Hazel Morgan, pianist, while
Miss Mary Magner also contributed two
vocal selections in which her contralto
voice gave much satisfaction. The in
strumental numlx'rs revealed that the
Two of the numerous annual report!,
that are to percolate through the strata
of official attention before they can be
spread before the printer for insertion
in the city's year book for 1915 were
received and accepted at the regular
aldermanie session last night. Members
of the property and lighting committees
were on the grounds early with their
summary of achievements in the year
that shuffled into the past a few days
since. Reams of data are yet to lie
scrutinized by the city fathers, and by
next week, it is expected, the first big
budget will be available for considera
tion. Acting imler tho instructions from
the city council, the printing committee
reported its conference with N. J. Rob
erta and recommended that his bid on
printing the city report be accepted.
The report was accepted and the rec
ommendation ordered carried out. Sir.
Roberts' tender, which was the sole bid
received, fixes the price at $1.35 per
pnge, tabular pages to count as two,
with 75 cloth-bound copies nt 40 cents
each. Material for the printer is to be
in his hands by Feb. 1 and most of tho
reports are to be ready for delivery
around Feb. 10.
The clerk presented a resolution au
thorizing the mayor and finance com
mittee to float a temporary loan in an
ticipation of monetary needs in tho
early spring. It was explained that tho
money will not lie needed before the ex
piration of six weeks or more, but the
resolution, offered tentatively, carried
with it the suggestion that the council
will do well to obtain the loan just now
as the opportunities for floating a short-
time note at a comparatively low rate
of interest are unusually favorable at
this time. The aldermen were a unit m
adopting the suggestion and the resolu
tion was passed to a second reading.
Communications relative to the Inter-
tate Realty company's negotiations for
a water right in East Barre and the re- '
quest from a person in ill health for aid
in obtaining treatment at the Pittsford
sanatorium were received. In the lat
ter instance, the desired aid was ad
vanced. :'
Alderman Bruce, vice-president of the
board, was in the chair in the absence of
Alderman Keast, who is in New York.
Routine business included the adoption
Of the building inspector's report for
December, a report including many mi
nor permits granted. The wiring, in
spector reported favorably on the fol
lowing applications and wiring permits
were granted:,!. McRae, to wire for
lights at 18 Plain street; Barclay Bros.,
in wirn for mntnra in TXni fliflr!r'a inafljl.
ow; V, Stacy, to wire for lights at 130
Maple avenue; Granite City Quoiting
club, to wire for lights near Straiton's
shed.
From the aldermanie property com
mittee came the following report for
1915: "City hall: The building is in
good condition. The lights in the opera
house have been changed to a meter
separate from the remainder of tho
building at a cost of $40. There have
been A few repairs to fixtures and six
new chairs were purchased for the
booths. ' - ,
"Old town hall: This property is in
fairly good condition. We would recom
mend that the city sell the property as
ioon as convenient.
"Citv farm: There have been n few
repairs on tlie buildings, mostly on tho
exterior.
"Band stand: This property is in fair
ly good condition. Mertz house: This
property has been sold as recommended
by past committees. Insurance: All tho
property, as in the past years, is covered
by insurance."
Brevity marked the report of the al
dermanie lighting committee1 for the
year. Forty-candlepower lights were in
stalled on Merchant street. Third street,
Shurtleff place and Pleasant street. Two
40-candlepower lights were placed on
Tremont street. One light was removed
voting ladies possessed unusual ability, u f t,.'.,..
, , . . . , iu inrr ni nri 10 ii.tiioiiv iim .,-.ii
inree oio niiinin-r in puriicuiar receiv-
MILES GARVEY.
Well Knows Barre Man Takes Burling
ton Woman as Bnde.
ing sincere approbation from the audi
ence. These numbers were Miss Mor
gan's rendering of the "Lucia Sextette"
for the left band. Miss Magner's violin
numbers, "Air" on G string and "Iel-
besleid and Miss Marv Magner's "Re
miniscences of Mendelssohn' as played
on the flute.
At the close of the propram there was
dancing, which continued till midnight,
the music being furnished by the boys'
orchetra from the high school. Light
refreshments were served following the
concert.
PEOPLE'S NATIONAL BANK.
Officers were Re-elected at the Annual
Meeting Yesterday.
streets.
Mrs. Vest ilia E. Drown forwarded a
statement asking that the city reim
burse her for $!).:! I worth of tiling, which
she alleges was ued by the street de
partment on Plain street. Mrs. Drown
contended that her bill was justified on
the ground that she had to replace th
tile at the figure mentioned. Her cas
wan turned over to the street vnimitti-c.
Elmer Taft of Washington strcet put
in a protest through Alderm.'tn Glysson
against a sprinkling scssineiit lcviel
against him. .Mr. Taft intimated that
the section of roadway for which be m
assessed had liecii oiled but oni and
never water sprinkled. His complaint
was also referred to the street commit
tee. Ihcrwr W. .T. ( lar.p's report for the
ALL RE-ELECTED
At Annual Meeting of Montpelier Na
tional Bank.
dean responding in words whieii left no 1 succeed A. H. McLeoJ
At the annual meeting of the stock
holders of the Montpelier National bank
this niomintr the foliowinir rlimrnt-a
C. Hark was chosen president to 'were re-elected: Albert Tuttle. Jame
that city and David M. Miles of Barre ,hcir ,nmu, meeting. wh-ch was held
V 7 V 'u . , lmw"u- in the banking psrh.rs in the orthen Through refunds
ate members of the two fimilie were . . . . . n- n.i i ..' . ..
represented at the nuptial., among hem j Averill" F !. lJ.d.1.' Ira f. t'a
being I)r. and Mrs. J. W. Stew.rt of JTomn U-.V smith. A. .1. Voi
no retire an.-r . Krok. Arthur I). F.rw.ll vrl
doubt of his grstitude in the minds 21 Tears as r"lent and 36 at director. '' IlUnrhard an.! llarlan W k.m . .
of hit gnest. The party broke op at! He as frntd with a p..!d beaded u!.eqnent meeting of the .-reeinrs Mr
the gu-t wihirg their icane. T. N. Vail w re-ele-ied bead of , Tuttle !e.ted rre.i lent Mr rv-irV
At St. Marv'. cathedral Sn llmlinn- ......... ..... . P""r department i Dcecmlier referred
i-i ; MiH Kiioi.iem oi me ircir .-.aiionai , t j, ance of f7Jt on hand at the l.e
thm morning Miss Elisabeth t.arvey of'it .i....-i il,. f,.ni ,!iroet.,r. .t . . .. .u i ...
SfidliliiU ! ioe moiiiii inn ii HpproprM
tion of $7'"l from the filv rouneil.
money tflid bv otlier
bbnk yesterday: C. W. Melcher. C. W. ;tnnn for indigents detained in Parre.
alcf, II. 1". i mi from other source too ivcr-er
mini I- X . U . ...... 4, ..... .1.
is city. Mr. and Mrs. Miles left Bur-..i v l H.,l.len ..i i.... '
ington this forenoon for Ixm Angeles, L,,. rfirtor. met and re-elc tci t,.e f..l-'-,,-. ... .,,-....11 .. .-
h ing oflicer : lTesident. ". . Meh h- , t!.e fvx.r and a t!nef. nf fl.'.WJ rr.
er; vice president. Kre. X. Praley; m1i- 'niaiee j at ti e end of the ninti).
ier. W. '. Johnson, jr.: sistant e-ti- i 1 ent -ne tdvM-ian and a nudwii."
Alfred A. Smith of the Tuck school ier. Frank K. Rejrd; teller. Harr. r 1- re to 1 paid for retummt hirth ?nl
of administration and finance. lUrt- Aeri!l: rhik. Paul Msmmalo. j.i.ath certm.te in I r ! - r.u't if
mouth college, is to 1 the speaker at a Al reports inds-atd that the luink has warrant app'oted fnr pavment a !-.!-moke
talk tn be ifiven in the moms of ' ju-t emerged fmm an unnsiial'v pr.r- .,,: y. . A'i ban-Wntt i7. . :.
the imitia club Thurs'lay eveninj at on v.-ar. l.rarf irg in -ree in ll Aery . -ent, K. H. I t ;,t
th
(U where they intend to pass the win
ter.
laij. Iw hit the r , i , I . K . . , . ! I V l.l . . . . I 1 I t
no ana rie. many more happy i!h onarl nt trertfrs of tne Lynd-n-' vice p'esi jert lievi IL Ussbv cashier o-. lor k tin-W the itniev of the Barre urt! and th .in.in.l.-d prnl.ts were
nivrrsane. ,ti bank. Jnj K,rfij ,.,ftict canhier. lioard of Tra.ir. ihmkj the ,tew. n-tr l.
t' r,tini-.l i-n cg'.tS jMje.s
