he uNreN WdEetiYe
VOLUMIE XXXI. LAURE~NS, SOUTH CAROLUNAWNESy JUAY2,16NMBR5
SH[RIFF'S FJM[RAL[
TO BE HELD TODAY
Body Arrived Last Night
from Colorado.
SHERIFF DIED
WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Meeting of Association of Sheriffs
Cancelled out of Respect to 11im1
and Some of Its Members are Here
to Act as Pall Bearers.
The funeral services over the body
of the late Sheriff John D. Owings,
who died at Meeker, Colorado, Wed
nesday evening, will be held at the
residence on West Main street this
morning at 10 o'clock and interment
will take place immediately after
wards at the cemetery on North Har
per street. A delegation from the
Association of South Carolina Sheriffs
and Chiefs of Police will act as active
pall bearers. The services will be
conducted by the Reverends J .11. T.
Major, M. L. Lawson and C. F. Ran
kin, pastors of the Methodist, Baptist
and Presbyterian churches, respec
tively. Notices of the funeral have
been given in the various sections of
the county and a large crowd is ex
pected to be present to pay tribute to
the memory of the popular officer.
Sheriff Owings went west in search
of health several weeks ago and the
first tidings received from him were
that he was improving. Last Wednes
day .morning, however, a telegram was
received by his relatives here to the
effect that he had taken a turn for
the worse and later on in the day the
news was sent by wire that he had
died. As the place of his death was
about forty miles from a arilroad and
storms had interrupted traffic consid
erably it was not until Monday even
ing that further particulars could be
secured as to when and where to ex
pect the body. When definite informa
tion was received funeral arrange
ments were made and his relatives
and friends over the county were ad
vised of it. A meeting of the Associa
tion of S. C. Sheriffs and Chiefs of
Police, which was to have been held
at Spartanhurg yesterday was post
poned by President Martin and a coin
mittee was named by Secretary
tector to attend the funeral and act
as pall bearers. Those named by hIm
are Sheriffs .J. 1lay l'aut, Union; W.
V. 'Thomas, Cherokee; W. J. 'hite,
Spartanburg; TI. W., Mc~lillan, Green
wood; Cannon Illoase, Newberry, and
Ilendrix Rector, Greenville. In addi
tion to Ithese a number of other sher
iffs and chiefs of police are expected
and thei have all been asked by the
family to aet as pall bearers. Chief
of Police W. S. Dagwell and ;Deputy
Sheriff C. L. Owens have been asked
to serve from this city. Those who
do not nt as active pall bearers will
act as honorary pall bearers with the
following gentlemen: MAessrs. W. S.
Power, Laurens; J. \V. Wells, Gray
('ou r; H1. M. liryson, Ora; Will Mlc
Cl intock, Ora ; . 1. M.cCneni, Prince
tn; II. I'L Iiabb, Laurtens; TI. ii. hAlttie,
('liitomn: .1. J1. liuss, [Dr. JT. HT. Tleague,
I)r. WV. I. i ergiuson aitil Dr. W.. C.
Irbhy, Laurien'is, an i Dllr. J1. II. .11 Ier,
('ross 1i111.
.'r) Owin gs was born1 in IDialIs town
ship a few iton th lor oe Ithani 50 yearls
aigo, t hr soin of ('apit. anid . rs. A'. C.
Owings. lie htas been sheriffT of the
'ounity3 sine 1908(, having bieen ie
eloctodto) the oliler In 191 i2. Priev'is
to1 tenr'iie of this oilier', lie was depulty3
sheriffI under01 ('apt. Ti. .J. IDucket01t. lIe
had1( ain env iable) record as ai lpeie otlil
cor, contducienig IiIs ollial dIutlos in
a fearless and1( imptlia manne111itr. I IC
had a high sense of htis (litieos antd
pierforme nthemlt t accordinug to the best
dtic tates of hiIs consclenice.
Mr'. Owvings inan urvIveod by his wifo,
who wvas ia Miss Drimmtitoiid, lthr'ee
simallI clildcren, IDrueilla, Johnn iy and c
James, his father and the followintg
briothiers arnd sisters: A. C. Owing:;,
Gr'ay Court; C. Ii. Owlngs, 'Owlngs;
('litude L. Ow Ings, G ray 'outt t; .\lrs.
.Jainie ShllI, Gr ay Court ; Mr's. 11. S.
Hall and Mirs. (1. 1N. Ailcer, oif Mookor,
C:olor'ado. The deceasedl wais at the
htomne of his sisters it Meekeir, C'ol.,
when lie (lied.
Shorff Owings wvas a nmeimber of
the Masonic and WVoodmran orders,
Knights of PythmIas atnd Juiilor Ordeir
of Meehanics and was also a consis
tent member of the Methtodist elhurcht.
lie wait upright and honest in htis Itri
ENJOYABLE SESSION
OF COUJNTY TEACINEItS
Inspiring Address by Dr. Patterson'
Wardlaw, of the University of South
Carolina.
The monthly meeting of the county
teachers association was field in the
graded school building Saturday morn
ing and was followed by a luncheon in
the court house tendered by the coun
ty department of education. The meet
ing was largely attended and deep in
terest was manifested by all those who
wer!' present.
The feature of the session was the
address by Dr. Patterson Wardlaw, of
the University of South Carolina, who
gave an entertaining as well as inspir
ing discourse upon the subject "In
terest", treating it particularly in its
relation to school work. Dr. Wardlaw
said that the mistake that the old
schoolmasters made was in. failing
first to arouse the interest of the pu
111 in his work before using compul
sion, observing, however, that the lat
ter method was not to be entirely ig
'nored but should be used as a last re
course upon those pupils who failed
to respond to the efforts of the teach
er to lead them according to more
agreeable methods. Dr. Wardlaw made
a differentiation between various kinds
of interest, passive interest, active in
terest, etc., pointing out that the ca
pacity of the teacher to hold the at
tention of the pupil was not in itself a
test of teaching ability, as the inter
est that does not arouse the pupil to
study Is not of any value to the pupil
himself. In fact, he said, interest that
is not productive of good is a drain.
Preceding the address of I)r. Ward
law exercises in teaching methods
were held, sections being conducted
for primary, grammar and high school
work. In the primary section Mrs. B.
L. Jones led in the discussion, in the
grammar grades Miss Corinne Agnew
led and in the high school section Miss
Lillian Kibler led. Much interest was
displayed by the teachers in all the
sections.
In a short business session follow
ing Dr. Wardlaw's address Miss Gray,
the supervising teacher, made the an
nouncement that four prizes of $10
each had been offered by four women
for the best record made in the night
schools, which are to start In the coon
ty on January 1 7th. She stated that
further partleulars would he annonne
edl as to the prizes later. She did) not
divulge the names of the donors. Supt.
B. L. Parkinson, of the city schools,
reportod that the night school was
already in progress at the Laurens
Cotton mill and. that G7 pup)ils were
enrolled, gratifying interest being dis
played.
The luncheon at the court house was
attended not only by the teachers bu
several invited friends of the schools
and was greatly enjoyed by all present.
WOI'NI)ED) 1301 )IES;
DOCTOR. All hi ES'i'E1)
Dr. Theo W. Maddox, of Union, Charg
ed iith Manslaughter.. lIhleased on
Bail.
Union, .Jani. 8.-Following the (loath
of al Patilent, Dr. Thleodore Mladdox, a
U~nionl physician, was Weodnesday ar'
rested1 an~d 1imed0iately r'eleasedl onl
bail chafged with miauslaulghter'. Th'le
warra1'Int w'as sw1ornl out by the faher
of' llllie Stuiddar'd, 1al oft I years,'5
dIard( W w aeietally3 sh'ot by Oiilver
Austin, a boy of his o'wn a:ge, while
they were huniltinlg SaturI day after
D lr. AladdoX was sinlonedi to at
tend the Iinued youth., lie apptlie'
"firis t a 1d"' and left at ani iirgentI call
from an~othe 10'latient to whoml lie was
goling w hen enl led to thle woilunded boy.
Twv.o htour s lattel', ha vinrg ans5we redl thle
other1 ('all, the physieian retur11ned andl
amputai~llted thle leg. Th'le hoy (lied sooni
afte tl Ihe oier'at ion. 'The fathler c'lalim1
ed( loss (of blood was thle di rect cause
of deaithI, and t hatI lack of pr'omiPt at
telntloll r'esltedi in death. Tlhle 1phy3
slelan says that. lie responded itit to theii
call even when already hurin ''3 g to
anlothe li i' lrent, am11 ihat. he di all
that (cou(1li e (done at that. time:i to
have operated before the patijent hadl
rail led fr'om the shock wou ild hae
mieanlt ailmoist certalin dleatth. Tihe verl
dlict of thle cor'oner's jury'3 was that the
hIad (came to) lis death '"by milsfor'tune
Iaccidentally.'"
v'ate as well as lis puiblic life, lie was
caste in his language as well as
deeds, leading a life as a lpr'vate citi
zea and public official that a younger
generation might well natter'n after.
STATE LEGISLAl
Governor Makes his Annual ,
Valuable Recommendati,
State. Appropriation foi
the State Treasury.
'Columbia, .Jan. 11.-ile legislature
convened in annual session this morn-.
lug. Speaker lloyt called the house
to order while Senator LeGrand Walk
er, president pro tem of the senate,
presided in the senate in the absence
of Lieutenant Gov. 13ethea, who is ex
pected to reach this city tomorrow or
next day.
Practically the entire time of both
houses today was consumed in the
reading of the annual message of Gov.
Richard I. 'Manning. There was a
full attendance of both houses.
Senator Charlton DuRant, of Clar
endon ounty was sworn in as the suc
cessor of the late Lewis Appelt. In
the house R. Iurlon Hicks took the
oath as successor to W. G. Query, of
Spartanburg, resigned and J. T. Terry
Wood was sworn in as the successor
of A. R. Hawkins, of Greenville re
signed.
Reiterating his pledge to the admin
istration and enforenent of law and
urging an economical progress for the
state Gov. Richard I. Manning read
his annual messige. The galleries
were crowded with visitors when the
assembly was convened at noon. In
his message Gov. .anning reviewed a
year of progress in So'th Carolina
and ienrdc certain recommendation to
strcng'.hen the progressive laws which
were enacted at the last session of,
the 'egisliture. The governor made
it plain that all delsartments of the
state government mnt h)' supported
but that he '.'tll )piso.e n^'w an' ex
pensive underakingi at this session.
in his message 'inv. Manning dealt
with tle larger problems confronting
the state and promised to discuss sev
eral of these in special messages
which will be sent in as the legisla
ture progresses with its work.
IRealizing the heavy demands that
have been made upon the government
for funds the governor cautioned the
members against increased ail'ropria
tions. li urged tlie memitbet's to keep
down the state tax levy, which is de
manded by the people.
Last year the genleral assembly all
ptropriated $2,4ui16 for special legal ad-1
vice to the governor. (Gov. .\anning
inl his message stated tl't this act on
the part of the ;e'nat'l asseibly was
atlpreciated lit that ho haid not found
use for ' t'n- irtl. ''I de:ire however,
to state that n o r on 'd l .;li of this all
propria it'it ha; lite inuied,:ni ith t te
(nMire amoun;:lt .000, hlas beven turnedt'
back }into the state treasury."
Some Itceommuemilallons,
Amon11g the recomme11tndlat}ions conl
tained in the message are:
'lia t adeq irate provisiott be made
for the pay of special (Ieputies at)
pointed to etforc the terms of the
prolhliitioin a l.
'Tat lIberalt supporiit b)' L'iven for in
Crteasinig tihe wyork arnd etili'ieni'y of1
('AII0IiNA Mi.LLS
ASi~ I NSl'.CT'ION
in ite VI'.il Fromt Conrtuesiotnal (rum.
comirtItee on laibor whlich is riowv
couirrtinlg hear in gs ont th i li Kattig
mills1 of North adl Soth Car'olinla to
get first-hiandr Infortuin ) as~ toi cib
ilbor' (:ottiloris inl lot tn trills o ti he lt
T~is beaiivln.odywe
N. ('., tol the commiittee tluit lie was
tse of the Soutthrn ('ottIon .\ilanufac(
urerts' assoiationi toi ilvite adi turge
iarid ifor'rmation as toi the. conitl ions
In tire Soutih by mlakinlg a trirt or
inspieciitn at thre expenseM oif the aisso
"'I o rnot hilieve all bho str'e you
haive hear1 d abut 's!avery' in Cot toni
mrllIs Int tite Soth tint ii you see fot'
y'outrseIlf heter t'they arec tu' or
ithorized by thei' execu'tIive COti tIttee
Or thle f'outthIern~ ('0o .\illanutifat uri
cr's' associatioll to invite you gentlIe-p
men'I to maitke an inspectin toulr atnd
see fotr yortselves that these stories
ar'e not trute. Tire trip wvill not cost
yon ot' (lie government a nenny. We
'URE IN SESSION
kddress in which he Makes
Dns for the Welfare of the
- Legal Services Returned to
That no amendments be made at
this session to the compulsory school
attendance law.
That the age limit of children
working in factories, mines and tex
tile establishments be raised from 12
.to 14 years.
That continued support be given to
the state supervisor of mill schools.
That the public schools "should be
given adequate support and sufflcient
appropriation to meet the urgent de
mands that confront us and which are
increasing yearly."
That a one-year course for train
ing teachers be established in a limit
ed number of high schools.
That the members of the legisla
ture give careful attention to the re
ports and recommendations of the
institutions of higher learning.
That provision be made for agri
cultural courses in common schools.
That provision must he made for
meeting the ravages of the boll wee
vil.
That a board of three commission
ers be provided to have charge of the
state cotton warehouse system, the
commissioner to act as an ex otlicio
member.
That a uniform warehouse receipt
act he passed.
That a land registration law based
on what is commonly known as the
Torrens system be enacted.
That the legislature give consider
ation to plans looking to the improve
inent of the state's highway system.
That a board of conciliation he
-1itei to investigate strikes and me
diate in their settlement.
That the labor laws of the state
be strengthened.
That the legislature pass the Work
men's Compensation act, "providing
for the payment of injuries received
lv an employee on such a basis that
the payment. should be certain and
prompt. andi at the same time just
and fair to both employer and em
ployee."
That liberal support be given to
the confederate veterans of the state.
'T'hat the a plllpropiriatlion he cntin
lnid for the salport of the state board
of charities and correction.
iat the legi Lsh ure continue it.;
::1o 1.r to the nationaal gitard.
Thlat considertationt to fihe needs of
the mith Car !!na indu tri luist!
tut' he' given.
'T'hat the law he changed so as to
.v;'% m if fisi''rie.a imore l pow"
Cl'.
'I':at attention he given to the need:;
of the state board of health.
Thi it the ap p 'roiriiol ofat $:3,000 he
continued for the ermlieation of the
cattle tick.
'T'hat an aliroiriation lie made to
selmnre the benief'its from1 (lhe fedeial
goiverniment unde mil' h le 1ever aCt.
Itie ((oltoni miillis iln Ih ' ol."'
it is milerstood that ie ( linuniti1
will ne(('pt i s 'rop iltion an tmiIhat
te i tri may le inladte e l. ne''
Nj1 h101ls of' Sothi ('aroh la appeare'd
heefore the comiiii I( :ui aid theri
had ir litions fiomi lhe ci m loiy's of'
ing1 ainst the lii ai121ate of tihe. il
Mic('or'Im 'k ('nnity S Iltain ed.
Cohulmbia, .lani. 1(1. - The staite board
oit canvassers'm announlllied today thati
th!ey hadl istuhi:d the lmi'rotest of
wasl 5CleateCd (4ut of loion11)1' of thlese
I wo ('ount1( les an I-:dgeield and11
whichi wa-i vot ued ly a1 maiority oft'
will apipeal fr'om thle stat(e lboard to1
thie cour itsi.
,J. I. Sml ith I ll'nder41C, Opera'jt ion.i
wvenmt aln(l orion 1( at his 1home0 thce
Mondally. The ohperationi was of a del
lente nature, but it was sueces~sflly
performed and lhe is nowv considered
out. of dlngene.
ASK FORl A BhID)(E AT
PET'(KET'lS FElt..
Petitions are in ('irculation in Green.
Wood and Laurens ('ounties.-Goes
to Legsisatutre.
Petitions are in circulation in La1.u1
rens and Greenwood counties asking
the General Assembly to authorize the
building of a bridge over Saluda river
at Puckett's Ferry, according to the
Greenwood Daily Journal. It Is un
derstood that Mr. J. O. Denny, of Cross
Hill, originated the movement. The
petition here s in the hands of Depu
ty Sheriff White and has been signed
by everybody to wlion it has been pre
sented.
The petition follows:
The undersigned petitioners of
Greenwood township, in Greenwood
county, would respectfully cail your
attention to the advisability and coin
niercial necessity of having a bridge
built over the Saluda river at or near
the old Puckett's Ferry which used to
connect at that. point the original
United States mail route and highway
between Washington, D. C. and Augus
ta, Ga., and which by being neglected
and allowed to fall into disuse has
caused a great inconvenience to the
traveling public generally and a vast
inconvenience and a great deprecia
tion of land values to the people and
landed proprietors of the said vicinity
and further to a deiopulating of the
said corner of the above named Conn
ty. We would therefore respectfully
urge and petition your honorable body
to order the supervisores of Green
wood and Laurens counties arrange
for and provide a bridge to span the
said caluda river at the point desig
nated.
(OlRONEI IN ('I.AtIE.
Coroner IIalrston Ofticily in Charge
of SherifY's Office, but Mr. (. 11. Ow
iugs Is lIepresent.iig Ilim.
Aceording to the provisions of the
law, Coroner II. O. I nirston is acting
as sheriff intil a sulc cessor to the late
Sheriff Owings is appointed by the
governor. Clerk of Court Power, to
whom the duties of the ofice devolv'
until the. arrival of the coroner, turned
over the ohicee to Co roner Hlairston
TI'hi rsday morn in e, in the presence
of the solicitor and others. Mr. C. 11.
Owing;, \who l's been attending to the
otlice during the illness of the sheriff.
was authorized by the coroner to con
tinle in that canmity so he will rep
r: '. t il r. I liaireto un 1ti the aano int
nenI is tnulde. .! r. I airi-tot aa:: ('unceed
t hat lie would 11 :1e 1 o 1::0: -. in t hO
!i.';'enc' of t1e sheriff's o!'he. Deputy
Shterif' :('e mtbls Owene and .ii: or ..
.1. Gir n bein cont inued in the.ir po
sitlons. \ir. 1tairston stated that he
woull wilcomtie an early pio:ntmet i
by the Uovernor 1t. he had no desire
to act loni er than is necessary. Air.
I l'r to! is not oflicially the sheriff of
the county. lilt is acting shi riff only
so h!s 1tatus a oroner is in no way
affected
rt. Is itoderstoodl thia i everal a:)i-i
(atlions huve hbeen made to (:lovernor
Alaonnn ''or a npolintment. It is untd'i
oond that .1. 1). W. Watts. Mir. C 11.
\an and1( ('apt. TI. .I. [Dickeit arei appl
erM fg. the place. (hwero Man0
sax m a unti n' the ifuralI of
\l . C) nhi, hit hat hV had ai reedtl
1nl-- a deision In thle maitte r.
"('Ol'51 N I SA ~il,;1-".
On aciuont of thle I remembailii 511
its somedi hter lby "Couttin I s:'bel l("
I lrof. I'arkiinmon has- arraniged a returnl
-lan. II th. .\lan wh 'lo saw v it;i spark
ling (omitdl 0:n its inillt lre ota
iin, hatve expreie a deOsire tl see it
agpai hoih othors, wh:o coubhIlnot at
titid owiing io the ruishl of the. (hrist
ina; hlid ays, will inake aduvatagitie of
\i1 l.s ( hvlItllardb is !on.1 [cuta
i-d. onduc-tilt dily rehenarsacilsi
iorma; nc thaon hI:'orh. lIte will appeaoitr
ini th di ual roli of .liock I leth iiandi
b~y the saie splendid Cast which set
all la urens tal king. Don'it forget the
dlate ---Thlorsday, .taiiiary lthI. Don't
fiirget the play---"olsin Isabielle"'!
IDon't forget thle redluced purices
adllIts thirty-ftlve cents; childr1ein,
twenty-five cents.
FRENCH ABANDON
GALLIPOLI [TIRELY
Ergland Received News
With Pang of Regret
LITTLE ACTIVITY
ON OTHER FRONTS
After Disastrous Effort, to Force the
Dardlanelles French .and .English
'T'roops Enimirk for Otlier Fronts.
fBritish Battleship Sunk by Mine.
London, Jan. 9.-The remaining po
sitions held by the Allies of Gallipoli
peninsula have now been abandoned
with the wounding of only one man
among the British and French, accord
ing to a .iritish official statement is
sued tonight.
This news has been expected for
several days by the keener 'observers
of the Near Eastern campaign, for
the retirement of the troops fron
Anzac and Suvia bay three weeks ago
left no strategic advantage to the re
tention of the tip of the peninsula.
Nevertheless, the news will be re
ceived with a pang of regret by the
people of the British Isles, as well as
the colonies.
Renewed activity of various kinds
notedi by the Tuirkish oflicial coin
lnunieations In the past few (lays
has probably been in the nature of
cl)eparations for the tinal act of the
Dardanelles tragedy. Tonight's Turk
ish otlicial statement, covering tho
period from Thursday to Saturday,
records increasing effectiveness of the
reinforeed Turkish ;batteries, which
have been drawing in and concentrat
ing on the Allies remaining positions.
Another pang to the lriti.h putblic
will be caused by the announeenment
tonight of the loss of tihe battleship
King wilward VlI, which has been
blown wutp by a mine. The brief ofil
(ial statement on this subject does
not reveal the scene of the action and
ierely says that the disaster occur
red in a hea vy sea, despite which the
enlie itcw was saved before the ship
went down.
The Kin;g Iidw2ard \'1l Irepresciledi
an inestment of tcarly 1,i;00,00(
pounds and w\-as one of( the linest of'
the last. class of pre-dreadnaliights,
W. ispiiontting in genieral to the
Am terican ships of the Nev .ersey and
Nel.ro:a 2 lu t e. 2 nd was only slight
ly li Ihan III Na .!, \\1hi( sunk ) y
an : 11 .ia (X i n abullt ;1 week
ago.
O1 11m est aid ea't fronts there
hare; l:ir ~ i~c deve:'Olola enlts ofla g
iiii.';1;(n over the wek-enid. 'liii
that I!w ( ermans have e iin pleled tle
ieca::11are of positions on IlIartmllns
\\';ei. f Iaheni by tIhea French a few
da, lofore (hristui:s.
(, ( ( oiespondents continle to
as" rt that tlie 8il1ugaianmixis aid Ger
iiins are ha1 l~stein g planis ion an1 at
tack ont Saloniki. bunt the AuIstrlians
ire lighting harid aigainst the Rius
shins aiiii .\lcaii eieguins anid 'he l
nari ar1e larily~l ()irnidi in a reso
luti attempt1 to e ate th I edriaie,
freitih ti;vil 1.oy-are. only !n mil..
di212ta n, ail sa. Aiitban e2tta. ii
l i :'and'sli (aintr a affs a p i;ile,
;.ndig''iitil i thi s lig o paria
lni t. Te re wt(a il e a full re' '21 dei
MIs on vt , compubi- '2 le hlii'bily
w th' 1. i It. !'.yd-Georgea i mi-ni.r i
muniios a~end .\rnih llenderson,
(hoeenslbnd onei0 wil gihe man on-e
ul i ho~isll inedwn.hyb upot
