New
rid
Citizen
The prophet who isn't known in his
-own country can safely lay the blame
at the dor of poor advertising Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
. until he has advertised Scribe
8 QL
4
VOL. X
M). 15
HYDE PARK, VERMONT. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, VM.
$1.25 A YEAR
This Week at
CRANE'S
Big line of Red Lily Canned Goods.
Fiuits, Vegetables,
Salmon, etc.
A trial can will convince you that
these goods are of superior quality.
FJRESH CAKES TODAY
Cheese-Plain, Sage, Young
America and McLar
en's Club. All extra
fine.
Oranges, Bananas, Grape Ftuit,
Figs,
QUAKER FLAKES SATURDAY 5c
Come in and get a Calendar
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted! Calves, Cheap Cows and Bulls;
also Good farms tor sale. (Telephone 124-31 )
John. Miner, Hyde l'ark.
For Sale!- -One and one-half story House on
Cherry Street, now occupied by George Uurner.
S. C. Darling, Jr., Hardwick.
G. E. Stone was at home over Sun
day from bis work in Jeffersonville.
Mrs. A. E. Wheeler has been quite ill
the past week at her home on Wabun
Avenue.
Mrs. E. S. Robinson was confined to
the house with a severe cold several
days the past week.
"I have come back to my first love,"
said a Morrisville lady in paying her
subscription for the News aud Citizen.
"And there are others."
Sr y r- t, v 9 y
Xi, kaumd Bamae Jsmai immef X wr
18th Semi-Annual
CLEARANCE
15
ins aaiuraav. Jen.
And Continues lor Twenty Days
Vondsrful Bargains Involved in This Big Sals
Regardless of the market conditions and the rapid advanc;
in the price of such merchandise as we are offering at suc'.i
reductions, we must carry out our policy and reducelour
stock, even at a big sacrifice.
t 1 1 1 1
Men's and Women's Fur Coats
You never had a better opportunity to buy a Fur Coat and
save money, than we are offering you during this sale.
We have on hand 42 Men's and 28 Women's Fur Coats
in Black Algoa, (a Russian Fur,) Leak Astrakhan, Wombat,
Galaway, Poney, Siberian Bear, Russian Calf and Dog Skin
Coats.
We owned our Coats before the recent advance in the price,
and offered them below the wholesale price. Now, with our
Clearance Reductions, it enables you to buy a Fur Coat for
less than the dealers can buy them for.
Men's Fur Lined and Fur Trim
med Coats
SXX.SO For Black Kersey Overcoats, trimmed with Muskrat
collar, formerly priced $16.50 and $18.
822. SO For Coney or blended Raccoon lined Coats that sold
at $35.
S17.SO For Plush-lined or Quilted Satin-lined Coats with Fur
Collars. These Coats were formerly priced from $25 to $30,
831.50 For Muskrat-lined Coats
at $45.
that were formerly priced
Boys' Knickerbocker Pants
Any 75c Pants
Any $1.00 Pants.
now 4Sc
now 75c
Any $1.50 Pants,
Any $2.00 Pants,
now $1,15
now $1.39
Heavy Work Rubbers and Leg
gins, in thisSale
Our entire stock of Heavy Work Rubbers will be closed out at much
less than cost. We do not wish to carry orer anything ol this line. A
chance for yon to save some money on your footwear. '
For Full Particulars See Page 3
This store will close Thursday and Friday to en
able us to arrange and mark down our stock for this
Sale.
fl.
JOHNSON,
SALEE
VERMONT
A. H. Britton of Cambridge was a vis
itor in town Saturday.
Archie Page, who has been ill at the
home of Mrs. T. B. Wallace, is able to
be out.
Mrs. Fred Silloway has been seriously
ill the past week, suffering from grip.
Herconition is slightly improved.
Airs. VV. M. Sargent spent several days
the past week with her sister, Mrs. B. A.
Palmer and family in St. Johnsbury.
The subject of Rev. W. E. Baker's ser
mon at the Cong'l church next Sunday
morning will be "Carry Your Corner."
Mrs. D. K. Rouhan of Woodsville, N.
II., has been a guest the past week of
ber brother, Dr. J. F. Jackson, and fam
ily. Carroll Wheeler has gone to Hartford,
Conn., where he expects to secure em
ployment. Mrs. V heeler will join him
later.
The condition of Mrs. B. E. Campbell,
who has been quite ill at her home
on the lilmore Mountain roaa is improving.
Miss Nan Wombell.who has been quite
from grip, is better. Her place in the
bank is being" taken by Mrs. Mira Rod-
gers Heath.
Miss Merle Smallry has returned from
Boston, where she spent two weeks with
ber sister and hu-band, Mr. and Mrs.
Donald Page.
The missionary meeting will be held
with Mrs. V. M. Hardy Thursday after
noon at three o clock, instead ot at tne
Cong'l Vestry.
S. L. Ring has a force of men at work
cutting ice on Ward's pond this week.
The ice is about fourteen inches thick
and of fine qualitv.
George Ilolman, an employe in the
plumbing department at L. VV. Alct-ar
land's store, went Monday to the Mar
Fletcher hospital, for treatment.
Geo. T. Conner, who with his wife are
spending the winter at the home of H
L. Spear, was in Burlington yesterday
He was accompanied by Mrs. Spear,
Richard D. Conner, who has been em
ployed in Pope's undertaking rooms at
Jeffersonville for several months, is ill a
the home of Mr. aud Mrs. IT. L. Spea
on Maple street.
Ellis Bridge left Monday for Littleton
N. H., where he has a position as night
clerk in Thayer's Hotel. Mrs. Biidg
will remain with ber parent on West
Hill for the present.
Mr. and Mrs. L. T. Fleming are the
parents of a seven pound daughter, born
Tuesday afternoon. Mrs. R. W. Clark
mother of Mrs. Fleming, is caring for
mother and daughter.
A supper will be served on Thursday
of this week by the young ladies of the
Universalist church, beginning at 5:30
As usual, everybody is invited and re
quested to bring their friends.
Miss Flora Buzwell has been ill at her
home in the Harrison Dodge house the
past few days, threatened with an at
tack of grip. Her condition is improved
although still confined to the house
ur. neeler ot liurlington was in
town Tuesday to see Mrs. F. M. Small
who has been very ill the past four weeks
Miss McDonald, a trained nurse from
Burlington, is caring for Mrs. Small
Miss Gladys Stetson, who has been
spending a three weeks' vacation from
her duties in the Citizens telephone office
at her home in Barton, returned here on
Monday evening and resumed her work.
Charles Patneaud of Essex Junction,
who recently resigned his position in the
Messenger office, was in town last Sat
urday. He has accepted a position in
the Herald and News office in Randolph.
One hundred and eighteen deposits
made in the savings department of the
U. S. B. and T. Co., Jan. 3. Did you
make one of them? If not, start the
new year right by making a deposit and
get a book at once. adv.
Mrs. W. S. Daniels suffered a paralytic
shock at her home on CLerry avenue
yesterday morning, and has since been in
a critical condition. Mr. and Mrs. Dan
iels' son, Prof. Leon Daniels, Staten Is
land, N. Y., who visited his parents here
last week, has been summoned home.
Mrs. Bert Clark, accompanied by her
ten year old daughter, Ruth, went to
Burlington Monday where the latter en
tered the Mary Fletcher hospital for an
operation for appendicitis. Ruth bad
been quite ill for several days and was
taken worse Sunday, when the local phy
sician advised an early operation, which
was performed Tuesday morning and
was very successful.
We make a slight change in the make
op ot this paper. Hereafter editorial
matter will, as a rule, be found on page
2 and on page four will be found a sum
mary of New England newt. On the
first page will be late Morrisville and
Hyde Fark news and on other pages
general locals from these and other towns
in the county. We endeavor to make
every page of the paper well worth read
ing. I
Royal Arch Masons
The Annual meeting of the Eighth Dif
trict.JRoyal Arch Masons, will be held at
Masonic hall, Morrisville, with Tucker
Chapter, -No. 15. Thursday, Jan. 20,
with a most interesting program, that
is sure to interest every Chapter Mason
The sessions open at 2:30 p. m, in due
form. The Mark Master degree will be
exemplified by Hiram Chapter, No. 29
of Hardwiek, M. G. Morse, E. H. P
The work will be reviewed by E. G. Lec
turer Whitney of Bellows Falle.
In the evening, at 7:30, the Royal Arch
degree will be exemplified by Tucker
Chapter, M. B. White, E. H. P.. and re
viewed by the Grand Lecturer.
A banquet will be served at 6 p. m. by
the ladies of the Eastern Star, to which
all companions are invited.
M. E.. Harry J. Stannard, of Barton,
Grand High Priest, R. E., Henry H.Ross
of Burlington, Grand Sec; E. George I
Whitney of Bellows Falls, Grand Lec
turer, and other Grand officers are ex
pected. All Chapter Masons invited.
Priii. Sears Will Give Address
The members ol the Woman's Club aie
asked to come to the next meeting Jan.
17th prepared no respond to the roll cal
with very brief current events.
i Following roll call the Club will be ad
dressed by Prin. J. Thatcher Sears' will
Speak on the topic of "Recent Events and
Their Connection with History."
Mrs. Ed Cleveland is quite seriously ill.
lrs. Felix Burnor of El mere street is
seriously ill.
Miss Elizabeth Stone is spending some
time at her home in Maiden, Mass.
Mrs. If. O. Spaulding of Maple street
is very ill, suffering from exhaustion. .
H. A. Smalley, who has been confined
to the house by illness, is improving.
Robert Wallace and A. E. Wheeler
were busiuess visitors in Hardwick to
day. Mrs. H. J. Fisher and son, Claude
Fisher, were Burlington visitors Satur
day. The condition of David Wood, who
was reported seriously ill last week, is
better. (
Mrs. Joseph Acebo of Olive street has
been quite ill the past week, suffering
from grip.
?yne Masonic Temple Soliciting Com
tliitue are active and report progress all
along the line.
The condition of George Wallace is so
much better that the trained nurse has
been dismissed.
A small child of Gardner Greenough of
the Elmore Mountain Road, has been
seriously ill the past week.
Edson Preston has moved from the
Waite block to a tenement in T. C. Che
ney's house on Maple street.
F. C. Mayo of St. Johnsbury, Assist
ant Superintendent of the St. . & L. C,
was a business yisitor in town today.
W. H. Hadlock has returned from Bur.
lington, where he has been engaged in
missionary work for theMormonchurch.
MissVida Grantof the Teachers Train
ing Glass of Peoples Academy is supply
ing in District No. 15, on account of the
the illness of Mrs. Charles Burbank.
Charles Kellogg and son, Warren, of
Boston, have been guests several days
the past week ot the former's mother
and sister at the home of A. M. Slay ton.
Dr. and Mrs. Lloyd C. Robinson are
the parents of a seven pound son, born
last Sunday morning. The young man
has been named John Daniels Robinson.
Miss Kate Garleton is caring for mother
and son.
The ISth Semi-annual Clearance Sale
of A. ). SaleeLy will begin Saturday,
an. 15, and it is safe to say no greater
bargains will be offered this winter any
where in Vermont. See page 1 and 3 for
particulars.
The Unity class of the Cong'l Sunday
scnool held its monthly social meeting
Monday evening. The hostesses were
Mrs. J. A. Waite and Misses Nellie Kel
logg and Edna Slayton. A very pleas
ant event it was.
Lee Wilkins has been unable to attend
to his duties in Kramer's barber shop
the past few days, on account ot blood
poisoning in his thumb, caused from a
cut inflicted with a knife, while cracking
nuts Christmas day.
Clement I'. Smith left this morning for
Burlington, where he is attending the
State Dairymen's Meeting. Mrs. Smith
will go tomorrow. Mr. Smith has
missed but one of these annual meetings
for over 30 years, and that was 25 years
ago, when be was detained at home on
account of illness.
The many Morrisville friends of Robert
Hardy, son of Prof. A. L. Hardy of Am
herst, Mass., will be pleased to know
that be has recently received a substan-
al advancement in position and salary
the staff of Good Housekeeping, a
ublication which he has been connected
ith while f ertuing a special course at
Columbia University.
Announcement I
To the People of Johnson and Vicinity:
We wish to announce that we an now prepared to do a
general Banking JJubiness, both savings and commercial.
Tour Patronage Solicited, Appreciated
and Protected
STERLING TRUST COMPANY
JOHNSON, VERMONT
C. N. Farrington, President II. C. Parker, Vice-President
J. D. Corley, Treasurer
A HOSPITAL PROPOSITION
c. r.
Smith
Offers Dorchesler Heights
Residence on Liberal Terms
The following letter received by Mrs.
n. J. Fisher, Pres. of the Woman's Club.
interesting and has already opened
again the agitation for a hospilal in Moi
Dec. 24 h. 1915
Mrs. Henry Fisher,
Pres. Mori'iftvilln Woman's Club,
MomsviHo, Vermont.
My Dear Madam: Knowing that vour
Cilia was imeiesimi, Home time ami, iu
Hun ting a fund for a hospital, and think
ing you may mill be interested in such a
move, I wislj to present a proposition to
the members of your Cub. 1 will not
discuss at length the Ufeds of a ltopiial
for the town or couuty, but briefly t'ie
advance in medical science and surgery.
he huge number having to be taken to
Burlington or.other hospitals, the emer
gency cases, tne tie iter care that, could be
liven tu many who are unable to wee tne
he services of a trained nurse, and the
many lacking room or conveniences tor
a trained nurse iu the home, make a hos
pital a necessity in this day of civilizi
tion. We hnve talked with citizens of
Hardwick, St. Johnsburv and Haire re-
gaiding their hospitals and they are en
thusiastic in their praise for services reu
deied the communities.
For some time we have been impressed
that ''Dorchester Heights" was the most
desirable place for a hospital that could
be tound in the town or county. The lo
cation is ideal and the buildings were
planned for it. The house has a laundry
n the basement, rive rooms beside halls
and pantry on the ground door, six
rooms nd bath on the floor above, and
nearly as much more room on the second
rlior above. Plenty of stable, storage and
garage room, a nice ice house and a hen
nery with a capacity for 100 birds. It has
i acres ot laud, two or three acres of
which is a pine and spruce grove. All
miik, cream, eggs, poultry, aud vege
tables, liuit, etc., for the hospital could
e produced on the pli.ee at a minimum
cost, and would always be fresh and of
the finest quality.
I he iimo has come when we are ready
to dispose of this property at a reasonable
price. W hile it is a very desirable place
for any oue wishing to keep summer
boardeis, or for people desirous of a
pleasant home where Vermont's scenic j
beauty is at its best, yet being sufficiently
Woodmen Will Get Together
There will be a Get-together meeting
of Morrisville Camp, No. 11,266, Mod
ern Woodmen of America, on Tuesday
evening, Jaauafy 18, in their hall, com
mencing promptly at 8 o'clock. There
will also be the regular installation of
officers for the coming year. District
Deputy A. O. Palmer is expected to be
present and act as installing officer. A
suppsr will he served, and followed by
speeches by Mr. M. P. Maurice, Rev.
VV. E. Baker, Rev. VV. T. Best, Rev. R. D.
Cranmer, District Deputy A. O. Palmer
and State Deputy C. L. Sherwood. CD.
Howe will act as toastmaster.
HYDE PARK
Mrs. Myra Hurnham was a visitor in
Burlington yesterday.
Mrs. Lizzie White was a visitor ac the
home ot Judge Walker in Cambridge
yesterday.
Has it slipped your mind that your
subscription to this paper has expired ?
"A word to the wise."
Miss Vera Fullington is ill with grip.
Her mother, Mrs. Julia Fullington, of
Cambridge, is here to care for her.
Miss Fannie Davis, for some time em
ployed at the Hyde Park Inn, has gone
to Richmond, where she hasemployment.
Chickenpox is getting in some pretty
good work among the children of this
place, causing a dropping oft in attend"
ance at school.
Harold Waite is in town. He and Wal
ter Hill of Worcester, Mass., are negoti
ating for the purchase of the J. M. Hill
business at Morse's Line.
Some very handsome plans of library
buildings have been submitted to the
building committee. We presume they
will be placed on exhibition for public
inspection.
Col. and Mrs. McFarland left for the
west to-day. The Colonel goes to
Oregon and other points in that section,
and Mrs. McFarland goes to Niagara
interested in a hospital for Moirisville I Falls to visit their daughter, Mrs. Otis
to try to secure the same, we are going Hutrhin
n ..i. . i . , i : .
biuu mo lonuwiug propo-
to make you
sition.-We will name three business men
iu Morrisville, who are acceptable to
your Club, or a committee from it, said
men to have no special iuterest in or
friendship for us, even excluding any per.
son connected with the M. K. society.
Said men to appraise the property at
what tbey cousider a fair cash value. We
will sell at their appraisal.
If your Club is sufficiently interested
in this to canvass the town to secure the
necessary means to buy the place aud
create an endowment fuud for the hospi
tal we will give $1000, toward such funds.
Were we able we would like to give the
property for a publio hospital. With
many iu this and adjoining towns much
better able to give large sums, together
with hosts of people who will be glad to
give smaller sums, a good endowment
fund outiht to be raised.
Trusting you may be interested in this,
we remain,
Very truly,
C. F. Smith.
Royal Male Quartette
Don't forget the concert by the Royal
Male Quartette of players and singers
which occurs Thursday evening, Jan. 13.
This concert forms the third number of
the Entertainment Course under the aus
pices of the Woman's Club, and will
doubtless be to many the most interest
ing number ot tne course, ine young
men who make up the quartette have
been working together for seven years,
which of course assures splendid ensemble
work, and in addition each member of
the organization is gifted individually, so
that the ptogram comprises not only
quartette singing, but orchestral selec
tions.instrumental solos, vocal solos and
readings. The occasion should prove a
rare treat to music lo-vers. Remember,
tomorrow evening, at the town ball.
Single admission 50c.
A Thrifty Community
The Union Savings Bank and Trust
Co., started the new year right, one hun
dred and eighteen deposits being made
at the bank on Monday, Jan. 3. Every
day since has seen an unusually large
number added to the list. This not only
speaks well for the growing popularity
of this institution but is a fine recom
mend for community thrift and progres
sive ness.
Sunday last was the 49th anniversary
of the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. V. D.
Fitch and in honor of the event a few
relatives were entertained at dinner. The
occasion was a very pleasant one a sort
of preliminary to the 50th anniversary
next year.
Remember the church supper Friday
evening. Its a hot potato affair with
all the good things that go with them.
Be on hand at 6 o'clock, so as to get a
seat at first table. One of the chief
features of the entertainment part will
be a "musicale," which is being arranged
with much care.
Mrs. Hulburd has returned from New
York where she went with her daughter
and son-in-law, Rev. and Mrs. Perry
Conger, who sailed Saturday afternoon
on the "Bergensfjord," for Russia. They
go to Christiania and then travel by rail
three days for St. Petersburg, their
destination. The journey will take about
fifteen days.
Hyde Park Banks
The annual meetings of the banks at
Hyde Park, held Tuesday, elected these
directors and officers :
LAMOILLE COUXTY NATIONAL BANK
Directors, C.S. Page, H. M. McFarland,
H. F. Brigham, Levi Smilie, I. L. Pearl,
H. A. Xoyes, R. S. Page. The organiza
tion is: C. S. Page, President; H. M. Mc
Farland and R. S. Page, Vice-Presidents ;
II. A. Noyes, Cashier; Miss Blanch Brig
ham, Teller; Thos. Finnegan, Book-keep,
er; Miss Grace Strong, Clerk.
LAMOILLE COUXTY SAVINGS BANK
Directors, C. S. Page, H. M. McFar
land, S. A. Fife, A. A. Pike, R. W. Hul
burd, R. S. Page, D. H. Scribner, F. R.
Child, B. W. McFarland. The organiza
tion is: C. S. Page, President; H. M.
McFarland and R. S. Page, Vice-Presidents;
F. M. Culver, Treasurer; Page
Ufford, Teller; Miss Frances Noble, Mrs.
F.M. Culver, Clerks; Miss Sarah Chapin,
Stenographer. B. W.McFarland, the new
director, is a son of Col. McFarland, a
Vice-President. He is a U. V. M. gradu
ate and will no doubt take as readily to
banking as does his father.
