Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow
fair; moderate south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 75; lowest, 65.
PetalW J weather, mall and mat unreports on page .
tm.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIH. NO. 334.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JULY 30, 1916. twn, m, ry tr jiiminii ow ;uiiiiiiip jm.. mmi.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
TRUE STORY OF 2000 THIRD AVE.
MEXICO'S RUlNiMEN ON STRIKE;
it ah r nnum i
KciBALBUlM IS STUMJ1J
. . -
Official iotvs of Henry
Line Wilson Show Part
U. t. Pla.ved.
KA LI- OF DIAZ AND
li liK OF MADERO j
Anairliy and Its Causes De-j
x ribed in State Docu
ments. Long Secret.
F. X -AM 1 A SSADOR
NOW TELLS FACTS
Garbled Versions Were-lVace Parley at Bronx City
Ghen to Defend Admin- Hall Fails Police Va
Ut rat ion's Policy. cations Cancelled.
. he dipa1ckct and telcsramt quite J
i he c."!iu- jt article ere paraphrased
om llr tecret code of tkt State Xe- !
,; rnreif end for reason ot space
vMreviated . i pa-tt anrornftal fa the
gerro'-rc i
By SAMUEL CROWTHER.
fh- "51S by the f'jn P-i-iffnj and
PttHthlng .tssociaficit. j
T..E S- x beg.r.s to-day the publica- i
tlcn v' she true story of Mexico' ruin.
I h? never before been tclJ with
3 cv-nrlc'.eness. It is made? up of
t-e er-wivhc. the correspondence, the'
nu.-n.riaJuraj tr.d thr peracsal com-.
nients of Henry 1-mc Wilson, formerly
Arni-ican Ambassador to Meslco. Most J
c: the document are here maJc public
for the flrrt time.
The story revea.it the eiact part '
plaved In Meaic&n affairs by the Ad--r-inlstratioas
of Presidents Tafl and
Wilsxu and is an Important chapter In
the history of the relations of the two 1
. ountxie. Cut it Is even more than
that: It Is a aeries of human docu-!
xents.
Mr. WlUon is an accomplishes writer
betide being a diplomatist and his
confidential despatches abound in vivid '
.ouches, as. for instance, his striking,
p: 'ure cf the aged President Porftrio
Diaz, enfeebled by age. yet striving; to
'Ar.-y out the high purpose of his early
days, but .baffled and misled by
the Rraspins Cltntincos. Again, ha
r-ord after Madero's donfail that
Of r- Huerta "asked my advice a to
Prfsldent out of the country or place!
.m a lunatic asylum.
The storj trill appear in four parts, j
The first printed here aire a picture
ol the ute of Mexico Just before the!
revolution and .s essential to a clear)
:3p of the Mexican situation as aj
lolr In the light of subsequent.
ten s Mr. Wilsons statements are
W 'pnecjej. ,
The difficulties of Madero and thai
erk tragedy of his death will be re-1
U.M In the second instalment. The j
'ird fan contains sensational revela
tion conrernlng William J. Bryan's I
:.-.ir.a:-rmnt of the State Dejoruaenu
7.-e fourth section will furnish food
Icr thojeht for Americans aa regards
Uxican a-Taira.
i
riNT i. '
iiti.n Ine Wilson knows Mexloo '
tK r ig..y mss the Aratiasaador of
the i.'r!tel SUtes to Mexico (rem 10 j
:u .Vurj', mu. lis was In Mexico cltr
st tl.e of the Diss regime, at the
.tat r. na at the death of Madero. at
1-e iJ.Tiptlon of power by Huerta and
-i .r.K the critical months when Presl-.
"t v Jior. And his Secretary of State,
w .-n J Bryan, began their course of J
txztr mt:U In the management of the
-jt-d States relations with Mexico.
the er.d of his official mission be
by ttxnn at his fundamental
4 'M-ledfe and his many connections,
br able to keep in Intimate tooeh with 1
ry rhase of the situation below the
H.o Grand and In Washington. .
Mr Wilson went to Mexico a trained dl- 1
P'onist He hai his first appointment, that 1
f Minister to ChA'. from President Mc
K ,iiry i UT, ni srv-d therethrough I
troutUsome time of the Spanish-As-eii'an
ar H was especially active!
ir h.i Jfons to pr-.nt ar between the
Arjfr-.r. Iffpubllc and Chile.
and waa
nm-r.iJ for his work by
the late
- - n Hay He stayed In Chile for elgfct I
ind gained a thorouirti knowledge 1
o' the lytln American temperament.
T-.n he .i int to Belgium, vher he
1 ei a part in the Congo Investlga
' whicfj tamed the praise of CoU
iiooae-.elt, He had therefore had wide.
i;r:rr In diplomatic affairs ahen be
wepted the embansy to Mexico. H
had iend, lth approval, under Scre-
ri -tate Sherman, Day, Hay, Root ,
A Knt
K.n'- hit retirement from th Mexl
f'li por, A'nbanador Wilson had never i
to trie presert time uuoted or used a J
"'e lir.e from his confidential Ues.
it'hes ar,d te!erra.rr.e to the Depart
'ifrit c' state. These were considered
nSien'.ai ui,i would hae continued to
'orsiderej confidential but for the
irs of th Administration In fur.
hire or i-srmitting to be furnished
k-arsl-l and distorted versions f the j
' '"itfhci to a publication engsge4 tm j
. work of defending the President's ,
' ' 'ard Mexico.
Am' 3or Wlleon submitted In si
1" Mu public rebuke from the Presi
dent for having defended the correct-
of his own j.TcUI acts; In sllsnea
fur.
1
ni n in nmAimn
I I II I I U 1 1 T I I .- I S. n
Mass Meeting at Lvcenm
Hall Follows Earlier
Walkout of 500.
ENTIRE CITY TIEUP
OBJECT OF LEADERS
Conductors and Motonnen
to Fight for Yonkers
Westchester Terms.
RUNAWAY CAR KILLS
GIRL: DRIVER HELD
Two tfcou.anJ emploee.- vi the
Third Avenue Railway Company voted
unanimously to strike at half past 10
o'clock lest nlcht at a mass meeting
held In Lyceum Hall, K!ghty-.lxth
street and Trird avenue. The strike
is to go Into effect Immediately snd
many of the men left the meeting to
spread the word to tbo' out w.th
cars.
As the new of the strike order was
flashed slong Third er.ue rioting and
violence immediatel) followed Cars
were stoned and cobbler were placrd
or. the car platforms. Strikers threw
spikes Into the underground trolleys.
The lives of hundreds of passengers
were imprillel by the fiyin missiles
Deputy Police Commissioner Dun
ham and Chief Police Inpetor
Schmlttberger had u narrow escape
from injur)- or death when t.e auto
mobile In which they were seated was
smashed Into by a .surface car that
was suddenly started south on a
northbound track by a striking; motor
man who for a moment seised Lhe con
troller. The situation became so critical thit
more than 1,00 police reserves were
called out and stationed along the ae
nue between Sixtieth and Ninetieth
streets.
The strike resolution, calling upon
all employees of the company to so out
at once, says the strike will continue
until the Manhattan men have gained
the same terms as are demanded by
the strikers in The Bronx and West
chester. The Third Avenue employee.
will form a union at once and after
s-gnitja; the strike resolution will enroll
in the new union.
an Slaa I ulea Hull.
While many In the hall started sign
ing the rolls, directed by President W.
D. alahon of the International Asso
ciation of Street lullway Men, others
want out to pass the word among their
comrades still Wurklng that cars were
to be taken to the Urnt and they were
then to come to Lyceum Hnll. where
tha mass meeting waa to be reopened
at 1 o'clock till morning;. Some S00
men had quit work earlier in the day,
and car ajready are few.
Rie cars, running from the Fedsral
Building up Third avenue, across USth
street and then up Amnierdam svsnue
to Fort aeort at first wers especially
affected. But W D. Mahon, interna
tional president of the street railway
men's union, and William B. Fltxgeralii.
who has really conducted the strike cam
paign in Yonkers. Mount Vernon. New
Rochtlle and The Bronx, predicted h
would have many more men on the other
Third Avenue lines Join the union before
nightfall to-day. Only one-half the regu
lar service was furnished on Third ave
nue up to I o'clock last night
raratelers Aameaare "Strike."
Among the squads of pickets ssslgned
to go out and Inform the car men on
duty that a union had been formed and
a attike oroarea were two group, wnicn
started down Third avenue toward the
car barn at Sixty-fifth street. They wsre
shouting word of the strike as they
ent. Btralghtway they were Joined by
hundreds of men. some of whom were
sympathisers and others merely curious
ta see the excitement In a short time
there waa s parade on either side of the
street of more than a thousand persons.
There were no cars moving south at
all. but at Eightieth street the strikers
met a northbound oar. They rushed Into
the street and stood In front of th car
k that the motorman was compelled to
stop.
"We've formed a union and a strlks
has been ordered. Come on. Join us "
Many did not wait for an answer, but
picking up cobblestones that were heaped
In the. street they began to hurl them at
the car. The car was Jammed with men.
women and children. No opportunity
was gien to them to get off. The rocks
fell on the roof. They smashed windows.
They rent the wire gratings. Another
man Jumped on the car and switched off
the light.
There was a frantle rush of the pas
sengers to get off the car. The huotlnrs
and yells of the throng increasnl, and
though there was one uniformed poMca
man on the car be was powerless to do
anything
Finally the yells of "Scab"" won the
conductor over, though the nioturman
tud: to Ms post. The conductn- left the
rar and took ff Ms cap. He at. imme
diately shouldered i'X two hutky mn
and carried shouting down the s'.reet.
Police Drive Crowd Bark.
Others began to pick up cobblestones,
smashing In the sides of the car. but the
motorman stuck to his post Word had
been sent for the polkf reserves, and
within s short time an automobile with
policemen arrived irom ine !ixiy
seventh street station. The men with
their nightsticks finally dro th crowd
back and th motorman said be was
CoHfisurd on Bttond Vogt,
AND
STIELOW REPRIEVED
UNTIL AUGUST 23
Cdiivictfil of loti!ilf Murder
l to. Saved Five
Time From Chair
Orarle .,r:.vw the .: ' ' :. .an
funnni J hbo ha been dcs.r td as "
111 -nth the bt.r t a .hlld. was not
.cuted ai Sir.p Sm; eterda for th
--.urJr of Chari. Phelps, a farmer of
West :!lby. Orltanf count . and th
atter's houjekeejer. M.trparet Wf.lcott,
.n Matfh 1MJ He had twc tas of
executlor 'n on dav or.ee In the early
mornlse !ut lfo'e he about to don
hi pr.son clotht for his walk to tse
electric cha.r. and ar.ilri last eveniiir. j
whin Supreme Ccurt Justice Charles I.
Ctvy s!pr.1 an order dlreetlnc the F s
t Attarne.x of Orleans . ur.ty to skJ
. jee at n.l'tr on Auc-j: IS wvy a
-.w trla' shs-.V! not e srsntel. ir
v usl iic W.mman had repretet
S'.ielcw th-ee t.tr-.e.
Ju-ti.-e rjvj S'-ttun i bis i or. two .
LV.av'.ts jett'.ns forth newly discoe-eJ
v dene srd .tstements to the effect that
fi.vOr Is a rra- of such low mer.talltr
tl at he was un.ble at the tine of his '
trial to communicate p'operly to his
vounsel the fact thit a confession w.'.icr
he ma.i to lte :n Ntw;. r. after his
( am t wr. obta.ned under dure
' I'eillcr lias nioapuearea.
' It Is alltcru that the new-ly isfovre4
tvider.ee tenii to r.ow that a man
I whose r.arre is withheld was sn " th
j nlehborh-i of the Phelps far-r.hou-
I ot the night bfcre the murder and that
j be told r".t)ow that Phelp. wa a
( wealthy mar. TMi r-a". who wj, a
I r-e-l;r sle; t at the 1 help. hr- the
fft,..ow.ng npit dl'tpt-sred ifi: the
aurdr ar.d has r-'t Wen sn .'tee
) Mr.. Inex Mllhollsnd Bols.eva n who
look an active part in stavir.p off th
execution wrr.t to Slnp Sing pr.on trr.-
m(d:ate! after Justice (3uy slmej the
' order, to imi the papers on the p:ica
' beads.
Mr. Bo.ealn arrived at S.r.i: Sir.g
prison w.th Justice Gu' orders at ? .O
0 clock liK nlcht Th r.ens that sne
i was on hr way hal previously iiea re
' ceived li te.epr-.one from Just.c- iluy's
h. In the abscrce of Wa.-J-r. ')f-
1 rne and Spr.cer Miller, his deputy and
secretary. Principal Kee;r r3rnr ac-
epte.1 f. papers Mrs. Bolssevain, who
has irene with i.ttle sleep for four il.iy
and nights on.r.g to her efforts In behalf
of the condemmd man. was greatly fa
tigued. tlelew Hlra.e) b Xrwi.
I Rtlelow was in his cell with hU wife.
J Laiirv his thirteen-year-old itsurtiter,
J llthel, and his eleven- ear-old son Hoy
I when word was taken 'o him of the
, day s work. The Rev Anthony X I'eter
sen. a prison crupla'n, wa- alo wtth
, him.
"We-... that s good news for me and
"I my family," was the only comment
Ktlelow made
Mr. St. flow ar.d li- ni.ldr..n. Hl.o
have been rtopp.r.r at a hotel in Os
slning, wen to the prleon jl i A. M .
after hearing ol tne eari) morninr tay
and remained tn the death house w.th
the condemned man the ret of the da
Late on Friday n-ght M.'ha Apptl
bautn of the Humanitarian Cult, wh.ch
doesn't Ifl.eve tn capl'al punl'litnent,
(tot Jutlce (lu ' r-mer.t to rec. at
, torney at hi home, 33!, coi.ver.t a.nu.
to listen to pas ,r. lha f of the con
demned man. Stuart M Kohn. counel
f.r tRe outs.de h!j:: n f the Mutual
Vlfare League of Slnj S.r.r, and Mrs.
I-.ex Mllholtand Itoissea.r.. whi .s .
raemtitr of the Humanitarian Ler.ru.
uarhed the Justuv's home at 4 10
o'clock yesterday inurr.tmr and found
him waiting for them on a couh on
which he h.nl been takln catnap' ever
i.noe i: o'clock
The Justices took their papers and
was greatly impresstd by the amdavit
He telephoned to Principal Keet-er Ior.
r.er to delay the execution until he had
time to look further Into the merits of
the application, ami the crlm prison
i ceremony was then postponed unt I 11
o'clock last nttfht
( Prisoner I. (lterinsed.
Stielow who had prcpartd lnn.self
for death, was overjoed when tld the
r.ews and exclaimed. "O Jod, 1 hope
they tan do somethlnr for me"
In the meiintlme the lawrr got in
touch with David A White. Stielow'
i sHorney of re.ord. and he started from
Medini for this city Justice Guy hav
ing agreed to defrr the formal hearinr
untll t ;30 o'clock last evn.ng at hi
I home.
, James W Osborne was railed in as
chief counsel, and he made the prln
i npal argument when the little group.
all Intent on saving a man's life, gath
I ered In the Jut.ce' study There were
Ipiesent also Mr Kohn, Mrs Bo!swva!n,
M White. Mr. Appelbaum and Hunting
i ton W Merchant, attorney for Warden
Osbome. The hearing was ex parte and
no newspaper men were permitted to be
1 present.
' After the hearing. Justice Guy came
I out on his front steps and said
' "1 have issued an order on what 1
' think 1 sufficient proof directing the
District Attorney of Orleans county to
show cause on August IS why a new
trial should mt be granted, and stay
ing the execution of the death sentence
i meantime '
Mr Osborne then explained that the
principal basis for tnc application was
newly discovered evidence regarding the
pedler who slept In the Phelps farm
house on the r.isht of the murder and
who haan't been seen since,
Th Information on whlrh the Jut!"e
acted was based on nfflilatt made b
Mr. While olid Mr Kohn, the law)crv.
It is known that much strut was placed
on the fact lhat StIlow Is very Ignorant,
cannot read or write, has the mind of a
, child and didn't know what he wn doing
when he was compelled h threats if
the detective to make a confee..! n
Mr Appell'sum wns delighted ir. er the
yrantliiK of the stay
"It Is a terrible thing to think of a
man with the bruin of a child belr.g l.t.d
re,ionslbte und-r las made for rran, '
he said. 'Outwldi if lhat, we btli-.'r,
and the evidence shows, that this man
Is innocent. The main object of the llu
maniturlan Cult is to c.rry on a cur.i
palm, Htste and national, against capital
punlhment "
TH HOI" dl TB-tlN AMI SI.tKriVfS r.tlt
NKBYICK TO Till! MllTJI
t la Konthera Rallwar l.v N'tit T-k .ti.lr
i: la a t . j r.u , i ti p.m.. 15 . vt ,
to AtUrita. Mnnlgomtrr. Mobil, Neu ti
je.ns, lllrmlngliam. Chattanceia r.,l M n
phis via l.tnrhburg, Bristol ard Knuvl ..
Doufile oviiy service to Chsrlett -n In.
trrmeillat poluts .V T Otllce, : I'ldh
Ate. Aiv,
NEW YORK PRESS
BOBBIN BOY NOW HEADS
SMITH CJRPFT iTWPJVV
-w
Rubie" Borland, Entering Yonkers Plant Thirty-five
Years Ago. Rises to President at $100,000 a
Year, With 7.000 Employees.
Yt-.skt.Be N V Ju'j The rMr
Yonkers ti.at ns;!es ir. the tree :neo
street, that eklen.1 alo.-g th ter.-...-l
bank of thf Hudson lt.ver from It .e:
da.e to Hastinirs was made happy to
day b an announcement of the board of
tn-tees of the Alexander Smith Sn
C.irp! Company that lleuben Borland
had ten made president of the com
p" The trti.tee. In s brief announcement
wr tten ,n lert hai.d In an oSl.-e that
his yt to hfs- h c ck of a tpe
wr'er key or the rutle of a girl stenoc.
r.pvr's dre ref-rre-d to the new presl-di-
as Mr Heubn Borland, but to
Yc-ikers lhat st.ll refers to the bul
nes etioi thai centre In !etty
Square, 'the .l!age." ihe man who
has beei, i'icna!ed for one of th greai
business prites of the Fnted S'.ats l
lust Ruble Bo-land, an everyday ejtl
en w:io thirty years apo tis-d t.v play
the banjo for th et.tertilnment of his
fr.ends He was Hubi then to Bob
Brown and the MrPh-on boys and
scjre of other., and it t by that t.am
tliat tv.ey speak of htm now that he is
at the head cf a company that em
p! i 7. 09" cperal-v.
The Sm.'.h ccimpn l , to t
traditions Kve-y or.v cf its pre'ld-nte
e-ep' this whi inher"ted 1-- fsltion
as 'rm.-ers of '!e If -f A'exarder
Srr:U h-ve -worked thttr way u; frvi
the t- ttcrn Mr nrla-.t ltke j:-jcr.
C Clark hi. jredece.-.r bet.-. n
bobbin b-v r t.e Mouq iette mill and
letrred te ,'.-ta. c'. l.ie ni.v, .facturr
ITALIAN NEWSPAPER
ATTACKED BY MOB
Trosea- FnVml Morse I'liion
Square Pro('-t Mpctiiic
Into Elm St. Riot.
Several hurdrc! men sr.! women i
nurvh'd from an open air rrretlr.g tn
I'r.ion Square yesterday afternoon to the
Him street office of II projrresso. an
Rattan r.ewriaptfr. and wrVed the sd
minlstratlvj rww The pol.c charted
the mob and srreted fmirteen '
The crowd had jsthered to vrous
sympathy for Carlo Treca ard otht
under rret In Minnesota for nllegel
partir.patlon ir labor trcub'e there,
and the l-veu,,r. jjj wrt J!al Ei5t.
man, Arturo Giovar.nlttl, p. AlUrro and
! a!enti A oon a the meet'nr
wa over ins several hundred pror.
pr.nt mrv-a down to 41 Kl-n ttrrt.
ttwen leari irij worth street', and
began to protest loudly outside II Pro
j.rf.o' window because the raper had
nt takrr. thi side of Tresca ar.d his
cnrnpan oi.t.
From the leconj floor of the bjild.ns:
A. K. Croco. assistant mar..ger of the
pii-r. p'ej the crowd, an 1 rememberlne
that plaie wa stoned thre wtek ago
Immediately telephoned-' to the jsilice.
Ten ir.tr. cme m from the siret-t
'Cut the telephone wtres "' cr et) one,
and other start- J to carry out the .-on.
tr.d
Then twe-iv.five of them went up to
the third floor ard confronted Alfred .
hVt, the editor, berating him for hv
li.g reins, ned neutral toward the r).Cht
of 'fre- The arrival of two i-olic." i
men from the Kllrabeth street stat.on
' I'vttnt cn.uch to clear out thee
it-ecruntltd illers
I the "t.-eet th crowj et up a howl,
'r.c and beean throwing .tone nd bot
tie at the bulldieg Some ran Inside
avaln ani lrin m.vhi:ic tl aria., par
t tion on the second r.cKir ..nd wrev.t;!rg
the rooms WhiV the attack was ut its
height acting Cast William J IV"e
and six detective dro a int-i the mob
i.- an automobile and leaded out w.th
their clubs swriglrs. I!ei.js were
hr"ie-. and oliceii:v i wre .--it jnd
bruled by the flyir.g rniss:!ej.
Ki r a nv'tur.t t i .row 1 iousht atd
then It d'sinterrnte-l 1 lie r-o.l'e ma le
fourteen prisoners. Act ng "t.t Deevey
was struck in the shir, by a bottle and '
sufferrd sreat pain He '.vvi taken to
the Hudson etre-t hospital. ;
Patrolman Thomas Conroy received
severe cuts and bruises nlwut the had
and left eye ar I Patrolmen Muller,
Stem. Nawrod and Judge were also
badly bruised Two of the prisoners'
they helped arrest were charged withi
felonious assault.
The fourteen prisoners were locked
up or oharges of r,, nmc to riot On
banner cenf.-cated lore the legend
'Tne Minnesota capitalistic Hlick Hand
want, more proletarian victims. We, th
working class, will l.berate our prison
ers even at uur lives' price ' One pris
oner had a tiiket for an excursion of the
A car- lrt Re j cros-s '
B. & 0. TRAIN TUNNEL WRECK.
I lahi (r llrrsllrd. tul HMI I'h.-
seniles R.psipe Injur).
PtRKWisnrin.. W Va . July 39 More
than 1"0 pavenners on U t'more and
I Ohio tram No 13. pt l.oul to Xw
' York, cs-..ped injury or death to-day
j vi hen c'Klit cars of the train were de.
ra.leit in a tuiinti near vmio, iviifnie
county, th-rt -three mile, east of here.
No one was Injure! serlously
The care wre derailed near the end
Of the tunnel due to ,i spre idl"g rail
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST
SEC0SD
THIRD
F0VRTII
FIFTH
SIXTH
Total
Ccncrtl Ncv s Automobiles
Pportinj, KenneU
-News of the Resorts. Fathiom Real Estate Duma Schools. Gardens
Pictorial Mjsiiir.e
Special Feature Section ,
Editorial, Foreign. Books. Queries Financial Problrms. Chen ,
RtaJtrt or ntutJalirs uA it no rerfi'if oil ff ihitt rtttimt utll cones jttot
m "TU Sun" 4y notijylnt ti PuilitaUen Dtpartmtnt at entt fy (Ac ikon
1200 fifcJjmaej) snef mitstnf itctmru til! re ptorr.p'Jy Jo'uarc'tJ if pusi'c7c.
a - w w t i m m a m
if ,ar,et n th Mr Cltrk ar.J tne
lew pres. !nt Jjraj-ed from tbo po tnn
of uj" j'c den: of the Mouquttte mill.
U.e l.rte-: .:!.: the many factor. (
rc tr-rpie
to 1 v.ce-presldent and
then pr-sljer.t tafing in, their flight
theoretical iuperlora whose training had
. been wholly n the cSVrf of the C'lii
panj .
Data r-'KS.rdi-'g Mr. Borland mast V
apprcxitnr.t The company'. po'...v of
llen-e ir rtrj to its frir, rvtrr.l.
10 .t etu .o ees, fn to th of IV
, h.s el raiV Mr Borland t.-d.vy it
fuwsd to talk about himself. His pleas
i ait mnhr of refuslce explained why
his friend' still peak cf him as Ruble.
He was eorry. he vild. but It could not
be done. He would not complain, he sa:d.
if the stories that were pr:r.teJ about
1 him were wronr
Mr Borland .s aKvjt f-O jettr. old
He er.;ered the erv ce cf the Smth
c..'i!ipan aVut thirty-five years art
Hi' salary !n b :.ew position i atxut
1 (in ftfiri a ear
Several th : e abcut h'm may be
.ted with eertainty He never married.
He l:ve w th his axed mother and s.ster
at 1" DeUvan terrar His name wa.
unknow n u'ttl to-dav except to em
plojee of h.s corrrary and to the IJer
str.ratlon that knew him Vfor h be
came ab-irbed .r. the- anonymity that
rvrd what t -aid to b- one of tht
n- !?-e-it bu ne corporatlo-. In
the iviintrs
Mr r'ark res cr1 ft prld'r.t ef
the Sm'th companj' because cf ill health
He hid been president sine Jar.uarv
1 115. wrtn he succeeded G'.flord A.
''ochran
SPECIAL U. S. GUARD
FOR U BOAT REFUSED
ileqiU'-f Tarries Intimation
TJiat Deut'chliiiid Will Pe
part Tn-diiy.
Wasics ,r.v. July i?. Pp-. .'' pro
t.tlcn for tne German mercnar.t sub-j
marine Deutschland when she starts cut
of Amtri.-ari territorial waters wss asked
of the Amtr'can Goreramtr.l late to-day.
with the Intimation that th boat would,
leave lultirnore to-morrow. j
Afie- conferences betwn Stat,.
Tre ir) and Xv Department ollieia'.s
it as rw.el that no extraord.na'y pre
cautions cuu'.J be orlrvd, bccau- the
United State views the Deutschland as.
an ordinary merchantman. I
It is uniertci th a-,-plication for .
prc-tection n made through the col-1
lector of Cu.tvrr.s at Haltlmote and that ,
Ca; t. Kcx-.:;. the u&n irtne commander,
des.red a coast rusrd cutter r naval
vel to escort him down Chesape.ke j
Rav ar.d to the .hree m.le itm.t
ln!e tps are taken to vrev-nt it
the lubin.r:. ; - Mbly will be :oilowd
"jt by a fleet of small craft carrvine
pewsrat'er oorrespondents. photographer i
and slh'.sr.
It i said t'X) that the Ctrman. fear j
m British merchant ehlp mlsht go to
sea 'i the wake of the De.-t.ihi.tnd. vi-
vrt,tng hr presence t the allied
ra:r wjl-lng eft the Virginia Capes, i
ct even attemptlns" to ram her as eoou I
. she left Amerlt-an territorial waters. J
FIFTH AVE. WAKTS QUIET.
Vsks Widening of Traaaterae
Itoari. lor Hllk Traek. ,
Relderts of upper Fifth avri.ue have
bem d.sturlwt .n the early hour by '
heavy milk trutks lunit-ering b. and
the Fifth Avenue Association has ap-
pe.tird to the liuard of R-tlniate to
widen the tran-vtrse roads through Cen- ,
tral l'ar at fcit) -fifth. Right -fifth ard
Nl: ety seventh streets
Th.s, it is said, will i-r.-rr.,t the m.lk
trucks to pass through th paik, which
hs been imposs.lie hrrrti,fore as the
road are only 'wenty-rlve f.t wide and
a tile foot sldewi.lk oc. ujiirs par' of '
thnt The Fifth Avt-nue Avscs-iallon
wants the sidewalks irmovml. as com- ,
pa'.tt ve frw ptrsim- ue thrm.
THREE ZEPPELINS IN RAID.
l.i'Dilon Hrpnrfs ItU Hnnihs Were
Drnpiirdi .No Casualties.
Iivrx-v. Julj 3 Three Zeppelin ill
rielble balloons jiartlcipateil In the raid
r..ri this tnorn.sg on the east coast of
Ktciand There wre no casualties
Tlie e.ffli-lal statement rerardln th-)
raid say
Three atr'hlr.. rstded the east coast
lietween midnight mvl 1 SO Thirty,
two le-imtis were dropped In l.ln
ct'r.s'ire and Norfolk There was no
material damage and ther were no
asua'tle Many other tombs ie
jxirtert to have f.tllen into the sea
"At one p'.a.-e anti-.itrrraft guns wer
in action and u.vded in driving iff
the aircraft from their objective The
rollers apj.rto have Wn greatly ham
pered b fog '
Vnlln leri llns T pliuld.
Mt Anita Stewart, the m .vlng nlc
tuie ...'rev. has typhoid fever .It her
home a- Rilchtv .iters Ravshoie. l,re
Island. She became u after retttrnlnc
fro- a gathering nf actor, and artres.es
at the I'.r.ghtwaters Casino last Satur
day night, but the nr.ture of her ailment
was not determined until veatenlav.
S
12
8
i:
8
TEUTONS FALLING
BACK ON STANISLAU
nmilnff' Wow Mean Peril
Kven to Lember. Ger
man Admit.
ln-vtsi.s. Julv Is Proof pdeJ up rap
idl tc-Jy that ;he tak.rg of Rrxdy im-I-'rtar.t
a that railroad rentre 1. -ep.
I ent. but a fra-fon of the ctral Rj
ian v.i-tory tn - a ant thi oonelu
i.on i based cot merely upon assertion.
nitSf .- Petrcsrad Te War OftW- of
Herin vnd Vienna have teer con.traineil
to ae",rrtt thr.t Hru.lloff and h subord
nate Central- l.aw -truik a hesvy Mew
at the whole Teuton front in Poland and
(Saliua
So far a. the results can be Jud?e'
r.-w. the Austjo-lle-rnr. armle. win
have to retire on a f.ont of thirty or
fi r j m Irs fr..m llrody rorthward
toward Kovel lvjrther Kovl l thrat
eittil fmn two side-, and, third, il-n.
Itth tik. far t.. the south, h.s made
uJden thrue: below the Pnsi-ter In th
.1 r;,on of S'.anislau
in the orhrial statement isuetl Te-trt-srad
to-night the War Otllce sa
To the s-ojth of tit Dniester the. rn-
rr.v a. pursued h oar t"XK; n the
d:-i-. ton of Stan'slaJ snd fled to posi
tions pre ioMsly prepar.d by nlai
.l.-.O.OOO Prisoner..
Something of what th. ha co' the
rtral Powr may ! vt.ualiied from
the official Russian s-ouncemerit th.it
the mo' recent firhttnr ha. resulted in
the aptu.-e '. t..ti. -i ners and nftv
flte runs, while from the becinnlrg of
the Ruslan offensive some months apo
-i-tll now the Curs fore, have tsk'n
j;- ofo prisoners.
The Vienna author. ti. aJm.lted to--!sht
that their armies had ref.r d or.
?v.e sev-tlon cf the front b-ftw-en the
Tjr a River and 'h ra.lroad wh.ch run
f K.v: Ro;.tche ar.d Hrod Ber-
n.ad the sar admi.Kn, add.r.g that
fie Russians liad fo-ced thtir eiiemie to
w-.thdrau a ro- the Stokho-1 The
tltnnar.. avsrt. however that while they
,ffere-l reverses rii 'us: prourul north
west of Lutsk in the neighborhood of
Tnstyn they were abler to stop the Rus
t i. ;u-t west cf Lutsk.
"Kutrl, Then 1. embers. "
Military critics her- bebeve Kovel
must fall to tho Russian. w;:h'.r. a weeK
or t-.. This will fire a further ret.re-
mnt of the Teutons, they sav. Almost
due svuth f Koel i Lembcr;. t ward
which two Russian itltinin. are pushir.e
from Uroc.y. Obprrs sa d to-night that
thre s no serious obstacle to tre Ru
s:ans between Hrodv and trie t.altcian
ci.pital. which has changed hand, eo
cany times lefore.
1etchltaky's sudden thrust Is no les
Important. Prvm Sunis'.au. a trunk l..ie
la roid rans to lumbers An. hei tap
l.i.e rj- from Tarna;oi. The tb.rd
from llrody With .l ttiee n their
anlls. the Russians will . t a cieai
adtantagr
Offeaalrr oa I. una I, Ine.
N'othlr.c could illutr.vte mere elearlv
the rejuvenation cf tie Russian arms
tl.Mi the fact that they are able to ma.-i-talri
a v.goroi vffens.ve all along th
ettnded line Not content with srvr.r.e
an idvaru-e it c. point wh.le they hold
the tiierav el-ehre. thy Insist on ad
van, intj tvervw hr. and. with thrlr
enormous sjppiu-s of the latest arms
ar.d Amman.:. on, they "rry the day.
The death 1 M from tfe rer.t nchtir.st
mut ie eniinous Uver irxh of the
grourd has h.en contested. an.l. In fact,
the Germans and Au.tnar.s hit., tried
time ar.d agk.n to turn the tide b sironc
counter offr.ive.
In or. of the-r counter offens.ve move
ments the Au-trians announce they ,-.p.
tured imiortant high ground in the Trls
1 'P region Ju.y 37. and on the same day
t vo t ouO Ruiian prisoner at another
j. -nt nea- IVvdv
RUSSIANS TAKE! J.'jO.OOO.
r.sllwste of Aelr-(iernian Prison
ers lnee hammer Itegsn.
I'Ktr.cs-.rta' , via Iondon. Ju.y .
After being compelled to halt their ad
vane for septal i,s bef ir nn.
l-.i.rl Aus'r.an an.l (ley-nan resistance
or ti.e i.oiihern w,i ir of Ge- Hr i
s.loffs frunt th Ru'..in have seam
surel an irprt.int ni ar.l are
prrs-it.g the Teuton, b.ii-k along the en.
tire front from the Kovel-l.utsk rail-u-..y
as tar south as Brody
Although the otr.cia: War C'fTI.-e siate
ment give no particular of this new
It-netratlon of the Teutonic l.ne it p.
p.vrently took p!s..-e s uth of KNelln, on
the Vladimir. Volynski highway, and
was n direit blow at the Autro-Ger-man
srmy defend. ng Vladnnir-Volvri-ski
' ,
Kovel Threatened Prom Snnlh.
Th- unepected w.dcn.ng of the
breach t-egun at I.utsk in ihe e.vily
d)s of the summer can.pa.gn that ha
thus Cecil effected is considered more
significant than the oi-cypntlon of Hrody.
vthich was a foresone conclusion some
days -'CO. the fate of Hrody being ea,cd
whin Hen. S.ikharoft scoied his brilliant
v.ctory on ihe R,ver Slonevk.t.
The new Russian attack s mth of
I.utsk not only tvratens V'a.llm'r
V ly.iski but opei s the p-v-slb.l ty c a
.'.i,-, .-..ful ..t'.&ch upon Kovel from the
south, since an impir'nnt railway hne
coniK.ts these points The proximtlv
of th- Russian, to Snkf. I.kewi t-on-stltubt
a definite threat at le-mberg
from 'hat ilire.-t-on
Th rh.ef slgnitlcancs of the new ad
v.i! however. . the f.ot tn.it It Is
the flr't decisive succe.. .cored tv the
Rtisste-n. agn.nst (ierman forces in the
pre.ei- campaign
Since th- first bre-(rh of the I.utsV
front the Germans, takmg owr the d.
feiioe of Kovel. had been itble to hold
the R is - .iii on tne line i f the Stokhod
Tin' combined effect of the two Russian
ml van toward Vladimir-Volynski
and 'nward llrody has now bet'n to
dr.ve the Autro-Gennan armle luck
Kloiic a f.xty mile fruiit. Tlie fall of
Hri,.. hiwever, lu nm ns et seri
ously r.wakened expectation of an Itr-tlie-llnte
pressing on to L-nherg bv the
Rus!sns
Military rtti.s call attention to t!io
strong natural and artificial defen -s
pmtectlt g the Gnliclan cspltnl It i
cs.pe.Med that the Austrian, will tna,
their first stand in Ihe forests Immedl.
ately west of Hrody aloni" the bend in
the Stjr '
At-online to .euil-t.TlelM Infcrmation
t'onlintied on .cond I'ngr
TiiKoitiii Kitvirt: to ri.oRiiit,
Atlsnt. Hlrmin ham. elt-, via ,- sbe rd Air
l.tr.e bi 'i hsn,1oinelv snnlpp..! til tl
llrulrs Ir.q lisi Jiroudway or i e-nnt urAcn.
AMMUNITION CARS BLOW DP;
! MANY BELIEVED TO BE DEAD;
CRASH ROCKS TWO STATES
ShriM Throujrliout Great Zone Siirromulinjr Catas
trophe Shaken From Their Beds by Force
j of Biff 151ast.
(."LASS SJIATTKKK1) THROrtillOIT 31AXHATTAX
I'olin l iillfd nut tti Uunnl
iVpiuuiient Kt-pt Hus.v
From All
Thive carload.- of ammunition, exploding when a trail!
caught fire in Jersey City nt 2:lf o'clock this morninj,', shook
Manhattan Island and all the surroundinjj country, both in
New Jersey and Loup Island, with all the force of an earth
quake. The skyscrapers of low-r Manhattan shook like houses
of reed. The heavens for half an hour were lighted by a
preat stream of fire, which rolled now high, now U,w. Sparks
showered down in the immediate vicinity of the disaster for
fully five minute.
The explosion occurred on Black Tom. a peninsula of
solid rock .iuttinp out into the bay below the Statue of Liberty.
For hours after the explosion no one could approach within'
miles of it to ascertain the exact damape. It may safely
lie assumed, however, that no one on the whole peninsula
escaped alive. Black Tom is used as a freight yard by the
Lehigh Valley Railroad.
For a wide radius about the neck of the peninsula great
damage was done. Fortunately it is not a residential district
or the loss of life undoubtedly would have been staggering.
The force of the explosion may be estimated from the fact that
all over Manhattan windows were broken and persons were
startled from their beds by the terrific shock.
Through the business district of lower Manhattan the
streets were littered with broken glass. The police of the
region were quite inadequate in number to protect the goods
thus left exposed to theft, particularly the millions in gems
in the Maiden lane district. Calls were sent to Police Head
quarters and men detailed to duty in the street car strike
were hurriedly despatched to guard properly downtown.
At 2:45 another terrific shock occurred, lasting several
seconds and again rocking buildings in Manhattan upon their
foundations. The flames had reached another ammunition
car. By this time the Fire Department of New York was
being despatched by ferry to aid the Jersey departments in
coping with the conflagration.
The lire had already directed attention toward Black Tom
when the first explosion occurred. This lasted for perhaps
ten seconds, reverberating like ten claps of thunder rolled into
one. Belated homegoers paused in awe as the earth shook and
the lurid flames leaped to the zenith.
Therefollowed a terrific light, blinding in it.-, pure white
nes.s. which limned the highlands of the Jersey side and the tall
buildings of Manhattan with the distinctness of an etching. In
its dreadful glare all nature seemed spellbound. This died,
only to burst forth again, paling the sparks which had (hopped
like meteors when the darkness brought them into relief.
With.n n few m.nutt-e I'm Deirt
iii i t ch.rf- wr tf.it inc ill vn ,Hr.i I
w.. :n a w ' ;. processor the i-iren.
of f.c'.r automobile-!! cre.tm,r.p and
te heavier upp.ir.vu tr.i I'.r.p oMt b
hsid in ,t mal d-ieli through thf jtluss
covered strtrtt.
Tne streets tilled w.ih liUie crowd,,
c.-i.-uler.r.s tne hii:. .sthtened pas
white or laiiKhinir nervously Ktch hu 1
hi- own i-tbrv to teii of Just where he
js when the rploicn cati.e and how
It hurt his .tr. Twenty stories ot Ju-t
what had happened wi-re ir. ur.ulation
willun half a- many ni.;iute
A train wa. m the llud-on tuls on its
w.i) to Manhattan when the eploicn
occurred The I,ck k wa fe.t tr-rgly
HEAT TOLL RISES TO 170.
Tnrrlil Hnte In I e-nt ml "inlesi
soon to rnili-h teatinsrd,
fltlCAi.o. .1 r.v S The death t .i ot
the ten-ral .s'.-te for the at three dav.
fro n the were", he.it wave in hStory
r-.ihed 17" lo-nigln Korty-s. of these
ilea", wet tteorded to-d. nu.st in
I'huaeo. Tre Weather Jl'-ir -fl to-n aht
I it d .id l. reli-'f and indeed sa.J th
. IT'- tdl area w .cjld tw exieii led within
a lay or two ' .nclude the Rastern ci
Isiard Ad. hhc to tl. di-.otef-irt and
daiiue' to hx poor, small in companies
here generally ineresie.l thi pi.ee of
tr.eir product to-dav Iron: So cents 'o e'J
. e'. s a hui.died pourd
The .itlcla' we.tthrr rejinit fr. m W.i.h.
i fon aid th- ata of h.eli prs.ir
W'.h), -Wept iloVIl feom Hul'oi. Hay
a: d h.is lrn protecting the R.i.t Is
iO'lt'l, " poten-y and tenij erature. -a ill
Iwc.n t r'e at once In the Atlantic
?:nte-
The le c l of prostrations pied the
ID" Is. lt
GETS FIRST CHIfOO PENSION.1
.loh ii V il lint. .". II ml Dee n r
llinplti ft- tiliicr I .,',
('llic.t'.c. Ju' Jo ii Am e-.v. Sf
yeiir- e.id, wh'i iinti, Julv 1 thi jenr had
lii-'en a ci' eiiiplovc- Sir.c I si" . il
i.'liiy a , he k which na the i , ,iv
tmnt . the iniini-lpii pcn,on b..ard
un'e the l'e'snn act pisei five years
air
Tiie I reter'ution w.i- made by M lyor
Tn ron Mr Atnew s nxty.fnur tear
of n" erl .1 service beirai with member
ship In the volunteer fit department.
Powutowu Oiirict Fire
Anvcriiiir Alarm
(Juartor.
y the p.isencer Mo-: cf t iem be.
'V- ' tul.. ,u ' 1 -.n d i .inn tel.
Two g r - wiii e iv.e tirv n -t taken
In the evci'em-.it vrw h'erc.vl and
hjil ! I re m -v-l . t ) spital when
the ir.wn arrived .11 New Vers.. At the
N w Y -rk and ,1 -ey rr. of the
tube the bel ef also w. srene-.ll theit the
bttldent wa :n the lutes.
Over the g-ea: - part of Northern Net
Jersey. In New Vo k n Hrooklvn, In
The Hronv ,f d ew. fa- out on Lorg
llAl,d, people- were iw.ikened b the ex.
pios.ons and in many ,.tsts by the shat
terir.g of 'Meir w.ndow Within a few
minute, after the fir-' -jiplosio-i the tele.
1 hoiir company was smnmivl hy tl.e
calls for pcl.-e and tire heiidijuarttrs
and fc-- newsivatvr o!IVes
PEACE JOB FOR BRYAN MAYBE
Veulral Comiiil.slou I'irUril , n l.liir
Willi e'hlnr.,- Trraly.
Whiiisoton. J,.l 39 Pres. dent
V sot , I l.n ' V--; tne I'mted Stutes
o,t of -.v.v w -h i-..r. ,i.piui.,i the or
' -'. .vf a Hr f e.ii tret'v m.i ie
r-'-e t -,ny w ,en tt.e Sup IVpsrt
niei.t .inno'ii.cesl tint -k.'I (rr.vernntp's
had ani-e,l up. n I'r'...er liamm.. sktc t
of Srt'slip ,. tiie m jti.U .. - ,n"
In the eiii of n iispuie ; e , cm
ni ss o- wo . (i , .iTns.ie.) c' fi ir mem
bers, one -..tt'oi al and le i.i.- .H onjl
iho-en pv e..,.i iuntrv, tie ..es Mr
llnmtn.i'-kjolil
I'h.na ha apcidt nij,rtel an . .
miss. oners M- W.I nc;, n ho. , pv, .
nese Mliuter "lerr ai i VI- p.. l,rdt a
pr.in..'i.'r' I. "tr'wr S- '. r u A In- i
istritlrn ha i.ee-. n -i,- n ejr j nPy
'llltali e ;!, i-i ti''); t, rer -'it le
t'nlted St.iti- tt nm -red that in
a pin ii Hr. m n .- ke ' e
KING'S FOOTMEN DIE IX ACTION.
""" puiiiinu wm. irnr
In rrniii-i l ull mi Unit Irfleld.
1. -N'siv. Tii'.y r-' -- A" o'iu iV- natl.ee
in the c..j,!' . !. r - ilti'ii '!-"m the
'Pit push" I'V tile Hi i is'i in tha wct
etn front .ipi'iir ti.n of K in: ileoivc's
fgotmen, who j.t the ii'itl -eak t the,
vvi- Jolrec the color, with a -.uui'ier of
ethers vt llu k lehint Pal i.e. .-'errt.
Ker.r.ed) and Serf,' I'mirei sn- -..ris.l
ns "kllhsl l,l .ICtliV It ' c us n,y Is-,
t ime ell1 yi ' t!- cv iHea 1
were s on prim: t' ii" ji '
scrre ir.t I rk-e n i i f -he K
rvnnts from I' S.f ,i c i e e
w ere klllc'l in nc'lt ' i'
i
