THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH Y
20 PAGES
An-..
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JULY 30, 191(5
20 TAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 73
,
7
iliililL ul 21 21 21 ii liii vLiLJiwI 2LJ& Hii
Germans Do Not Succeed in Effort to Retake Delville WoorflFBH DIE
ENTENTE ALLIES G DKTINUE THEIR
SUCCESSES WHILE GERMANS
ME FORCES FROM VEIUN
FnA
MCE AP
-
DESERT HOLDS MYSTERY
OF STRANGER'S DEATH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
possession of Delville wood is shown by thu desperate character of their con- J"1
stant counter attacks on this wood since it was captured by the British. I nese
counter attacks, according to the British reports, have been repulsed on every
occasion with heavy German losses.
In the neighborhood of Pozieres also the British and Germans continue in
the closest grips, and the severest hand to hand fighting is going on incess
antly. The British, however, maintain their advance toward the remaining
portion of the rising ground between Pozieres and Bapaume still in the
hands of the Germans.
Many German infantry units withdrawn from the Meuse area have been
recognized in the forces opposing the progress of the British. This is the
probable reason why the fighting around Verdun, as shown by the French re
ports has developed almost purely artillery engagements. Intermittent minor
infantry attacks, however, have occurred there, initiated alternately by oither
side in which the French report some success with a gain in ground.
The Russian armies under Generals Brussiloff and Letchitzky have
pushed forward in a penetrating movemtnt through the Austro-German line,
and their success is admitted in the Berlin and Vienna reports of today,
which say:
"Northwestward of Lutsk the enemy succeeded in penetrating our lines
and we withdrew behind the river.
"A belated Turkish official report belittles the Russian successes in the
Caucasus and describes the capture of Baiburt and Erzingan as of little im
portance to the Turkish general scheme of operations.
KINGMAN, Ariz.. July 29 Tho
hoily of a man tall, red headed,
about 30 years old unil weighing
about 173 pounds, was found today
by George Kayser. a cowboy, on
the desert 20 miles northwest of
Kinsman. The victim of the des-
had evidently pcrishen more
I than a month ago. Beside the
I body were found two keys stamped
"K-100" and a brass tag bearing
I the number "22ti." Coyotes had
largely devoured the body.
SAYS INHUMAN
1TSI.I1TTEI
1 BYTHE GERMANS
!
NEW YORK CARMEN'S
STRIKE IS SPREADING
Turks Admit
Retiring Before
Russian Attacks
Russians Over
River Stokhod
on "Left Bank1:
EMIT I
KILLS MANY II
EASTERN CITIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, July 29. Premier Briand
addressed .1. .1. .lusserajid, the French
ambassador at Washington and the
other French representatives In neutral
countries, directing them to present to
the governments to which they are re
spectively accredited a note reading as
follows:
"I ask you to call the attention of
the government to which you are ac
credited to the treatment which the
Imputations of Lille, Hombaix and Tur
coing have been subjected by the Ger
man authorities. '
"The French government in the
presence of revealed facts invokes the
Excessive heat ' application of Article III., of the Hague
thirty minutes convention concerning laws and cus-
fRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. July 29.
killed a person every
here today according to reports made t)mjJ )jf conduclIIll; tin(i warfare, to
to the police and coroners off.ee. Heat ; ,:r..,v r.e leld re
sponsible for violations of these rules
Republican A. P. Leaseti Wire
PETR( 'GRAD, July 29 (Via London.
July 30. The official statement from
general headquarters Issued today
! ' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CONSTANTINOPLE, July 2 (Via
I'.erhn and London, July 29.) An of
ficial statement given out today reads:
"Owing to Russian attacks in the di
rection of Baiburt and Murnakhatun on
our positions in the center of the
southern bank of the Tcboruk river.
tmr Iriu.i.H u r,. mil ,,i f :t i 1 1 i is ' ill S11C-
cessive lines the execution of counter- region of Gulevitchi and have crossed
attacks and are retiring in order. Our the left bank, where they are strergth-
r. K ..ft t.-(n .,rtli nf 1 1n. '
Telioruk m the Littral region also re
were reported by scores
ss acts of violence and ac-
dents from murder to a race horse
spill were attributed to the high tem
perature. The maximum here today,
by its armed forces.
"Until a decision oy arms has per
mitted the reconuuering of thes"; oocu-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, July 29. After many
street demonstrations tonight the strike
of motortnen and conductors, which for
several days has Murnlyzed surface car
traffic in the Bronx and adjoining por
tions of Westchester county, spread to
the lines of the Third Avenue railway
at Manhattan.
Cars were stoned and there were
scenes of disorder that the police ap
parently were unal.ie to control for
several hours. .V temporary suspension
of service was ordered but later an at
tempt was made to run cars with uni
formed policemen guards on board.
At a mass meeting attended by sev
eral hundred employes of the Third
STATUS IE THE
STATE TRIPS
IS SET FORTH
was decided to
for the men now
and Westchester
Avenue railway it
strike in sympathy
out in the Bronx
county.
Although leaders of the union de
clared that within a few hours the
Third Avenue railway lines would he
completely tied up, officials of the com
pany insisted that only a few of their
men had joined in the strike movement.
It was announced that beginning at
5:80 o'clock tomorrow morning the
j company "expects to resume the regu
j lar schedule with policemen on each
i car."
j Pauline Cohen, 4 years old, was killed
today by a car in the Bronx operated
i by strikebreakers.
was '.If. decrees II wan estimated to- pieu regions, wie sou- menu 1.1 u.-.n...
night that n.'iO.ooO or
visited the various I
reads:
j "our
I hirdges
troops
on the i
have constructed
er Stokhod in the
tired voluntarily following the move
ment against the center.
"Consequently the places of Baiburt.
f Pimuskhuneh and Erzingan fell into
the enemv's hands. The advance,
which the Russians were able to ac
complish only with bloody losses, can
not change our general situation on
this front.
"The exaggerated Russian official
reports about our r.-reat are without
foundation. The Russians are report
ing cur movement as a flight, but ex
cept for two guns damaged by the
ninny's fire, we left nothing.
"The next operations, which will take
place shortly, will prove how very pre
mature the Russians have been In
spreading this news of alleged great
successes and how much they have de
ceived themselves in their reports.
ening the jsisitions they have taken up.
"To the south of the Dniester the
enemy was pursued by our troops in
the direction of Stunislau and fled to
positions pnviouslv prepared by him.
"Details regarding trie booty eap
Jtured are still so incomplete that it is
'only possible to 'vc them in a very 1
approximate manner. It, however, has
I been ascertained that the troops under
'General Brussiloff, during July 2s and
is captured two gen rals. more than
io) officers and :;2,000 men, including I
a consideral'le number of Germans.
About. 100 guns including 29 heavy
howitzers have been captured. Thisi
includes -1 guns taken by General
Lctchkitzky's troops. Eiirhty-five ma-1
I chine guns abo were taken by his
j troops.
j "During the three days battle fought
I by General Sukharoffs troops, 216 of-
dav.
At the Clarendon, the newest munic
ipal beach, one man was injured and
about twenty more were overcome by
the heat when a crowd of 500 persons
tried to force their way through trie
doors which had been cbmed because
all the suits were in use.
To coo! the streets tonight all fire
engine companies were detailed to
sprinkle streets and sidewalks through
out the city.
The total deaths attributed to the
heat today in reports to the police and I
coroner had ronched 4'l, bringing the.
total for trie present spell at thieagoj
to 1.10.
I A report by Director Charles Mc-I
! Gee nf the Clarendon municipal beach i
i tonight said that fifty thousand ap-1
plicants for bathing suits were turned
away during the day, that l'.O.OOft vis
ited that beach alone and that thous
ands of men and women fought for
admission. At one time the disturb-
more persons had i these effective Is by pressing an appeal ; ,
.caches during the j to the sentiments of justice ami nil-I '
manity of neutral powers and the pub- , "r 11
T
RE
SENDS HIS
ON IN TO HILLS
SEXPL0SI08
OF AMMUNITION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Do TOLAS. July The first en
gagement of (le facto Mexican troops
aqui Indians since
with the
lie opinion of all nations.
"I. therefore, ask you in presenting
this note, to ask the government to
give it the most serious attention as it
constitutes the protest of the French
government against the conditions
which it brings to the attention of Un
civilized world, supported by testimony
from many sources."'
After reciting the efforts made by
the. government through the Spanish
government to stop the German prac
tices in invaded regions, the document
adds :
"Today all our protests having been
in vain, we place the evidence before
the eyes of neutral powers, assured of
the judgment that universal conscience
w ill pass upon such conditions and that
it will be incumbent on
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', July 29. Mooted
questions about the status of state
called into the federal service
,l M..vi..,.., ,.r,....... ,l..ia..,l i resum uioo
in an exhaustive opinion given Secre- '', "'"'""-"' "'".,..
rioi'iung, when eic.hty Mexican in
j fantrvmcn under Colonel M. Fierros
'Kin prised thirty Yauuis at their
of the gencal
the
campaign
tary Baker today by Brigadier General
I camping
I western
! trict, :i
i Sonnra,
i Indians
' killed h.
, the hills,
i '. ner..l
j paitne and
' iers there.
place at a spring in the
part of the Sahuaripa dis
few mi'es north of Tonichi,
Fbrms reported that twelve
and f-i r of his men were
fcic the Indians escaped to
i f it ers. 13 ",t9 men. nine guns, forty ma
jchine t:uns and about l",.oon rifles were
Austrian general headquarters admits j capiureu. jiowever, u is just possnue
a withdrawal of the Austrian forces in 'hat some of these were included in
VIENNA. July 29. Via. London) -
the fortress between the Turia river
and the Rovno-Kovel railway on the
eastern front. The official statement
reads:
"Between the Turia and tthe Rovno
Kovel railway after the repulse of sev
eral Russian storming attacks, the de
fenders of the position before the Sto- wagons:
khod were withdraw!, eiiind the river." mounted
the number above given,
j "The total number of captured made
'by General Sakharoffs men from July
jli to 2H, are !'40 officers. 39.152 men,
49 guns, of which 17 are howitzers;
i 100 machine guns, 39 mine and bomb
I throwers, 80 limbers and 7i cartridge
land
also 4S machine guns
on wheels and six artillery
engineering depts."
ATHENS. July 30. (Via London 1
a. in.) It is learned in semi-official
Greek circles that the Turkish govern- '
merit is holding up the shipment of
American supplies intended for the re- 1
lief of Armenians. The conditions of
the Armenian refugees is said to he
most pitiable. The total number of
civilians massacred up to this time is
put at .S00.000, according to estimates
made here.
government, in case it undertakes to
question this evidence, to permit an
impartial inquiry. T. enis end the Ger
man government must authorize the
neutral powers to conduct an investi
gation notably of the events occurring
Turcoing, and
frum flip ?''nd
25 women fainted, 20 women injured , ,h . , ,.,,; lf tlu.v re
in turnstile; 8 persons overcome by - . authorize an inuuiry. it will
ance assumed the proportions of a not
and When the ponce restoreu orocr u.Ma Lule H()Uu:Ux aMll
roliowmg casualties were loimu. surroundinc communes
lost a toe when a
from its concrete
FRIATT COLD BLOODED CRIME
heat, and one man
radiator was torn
ha se.
At Jackson Park beach tonight a
fight between negroes and whites re
sulted In a riot call and squads of po
lice put down the disturbance.
Cool in New England
WASHINGTON, July 29. While
light wraps were comfortable in New
EtiElund and extreme northwestern
states today, residents of the plains!
and central valley continued to swelter
under temperatures which went as high
as 104 degrees In the upper Mississippi
and lake region, and caused scores of
deaths and heat prostrations. Tomor
row the heat wave will continue in
the central portion of the continent
and spread to the east, weather bureau
officials predict, ending the cooling ef
fect of the "Hudson high" which has
moderated temperatures along the At
lantic coast for two days. Thunder
showers such as cooled the south At
lantic and east gulf states and the
Rocky Mountain region today, may oc
cur tomorrow over upper .uicrngan
but elsewhere there is little immediate
hope for relief.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire "July 27. Referring to your tele-
I.ONDON. J.ilv 29. The foreign of-gram. T brought the case of Kryat
f!cr todav published the communica- to the attention of the imperial for
ticn it Kent : the American amhas- elgn d'fice in writing on the 2ot.h,
sador, Walter II. Page, concerning the i and 22nd and requested an opionun
rase 'of Captain Fryatt. The com- ity to et gap-f coi nsel. A verbal reply
incnica'ion states: i was made, stating the trial had been
finds It i11 " ",r "ay at Bruges it added
0fjinni ine rcrcgn nnteo had requested
a posiixinement ir possible. I have
j today received a written reply, stat
limr It was impossible to grant a nost-
j ponement. as German submarine wit
i nosses could not bo detained further.
"His majesty's jrovi rnment
diffif.ill to believe that a master
a in" (-hunt vessel who, after a Ger- j
man submarine had adopted the I
prx tice of sinking merchant vessels j
without vainir.ir. and without ro-
!i
of the
step which appeared . -"-"or rVT J " ReeI1
th(
only chance of saving I
vessel, hut the lives of
can have been shot de
cold bloou for this
card for the
of crew, took
to a .'lord the
not (.nlv bis
nil on board
ilbrrately in
to Hon.
"If the German government has ir.
fli t ierpetrat( d such a crime in the
rase tit a British subject held prisoner
py them, it is evident that a most
ferinus condition of affairs has
arisen.
"The foreign secretary, therefore. Is
obli'icd. on behalf of the government,
to request Out an urgent inquiry
may be miiih by the I'nited States
emlxissv ir- Berlin as to whether the
report of the shooting of Captain
Fiyat I:: true li. order that the Brit
ish government may have.'- without
delay a full and undoubted account
fit the facts before therm"
(Signed I Foreign Office, July 29."
The communication adds that Am
bassador Inge -ent to Foreign Min
ister Grev, ir answer to his notes of
Julv is and '!0. the following phase
of a telegram from Ambassador Ger-
crd at Berlin
an
eon appointed by the Gorman au
thonti-s to deiend Fryatt. fie, in civil
life, is an attorney and Justizrat
queen's counsel)."
AGREE UPON CONDITIONS
CHEYENNE, Wo.. Julv 29 The
I'nited Mine Workers of America,
district 22 which comprises Wyom
ing, tonight agreed upon conditions
to be incoriKirated In a tentative,
working agreement with the operat
ors for the next two years. The
proposition is to bo presented to th-?
operators at a joint conference Mon
day. o
READY FOR I. W. W.'S
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Rl.DFIELD. S. D, July 29. Two
hundred citizens, sworn in as deputy
heriffs. are urdcr arms here tonight.
Incoming trains are met and mem
bers of the I. W'. W. are searched for
concealed weapons.
inquiry
he a recognition of the veracity of the
facts denounced."
The note is accompanied by a mass
of testimony concerning the seizure at
work in fields of thousands or women
and young girls. The document says
that the events which occurred at Lille,
Roubaix and Turcoing were only the
application of the cruel system of work
forced on the population and describes
the various forms of violence the
Germans are accused of having prac
ticed. The note says:
"A woman who was removed from
, Ardennes, affiims that her hus
band was shot for refusing to obey
an order to requisition supplies and
that she herself was imprisoned for
two days.
"In F , Meurthe and Moselle, work
assigned to the mayor being uncom
pleted in time, he was suspended from
a tree by means of a rope passed under
his arms, and he was left in this posi
tion about an hour."
The note cites cases of men 70 to
SO years old made t work, of women
forced to labor under the fire of th
French troops and of others compelled
to dig trenches. It also makes a charge
based on the testimony of a witness,
that in October, 1914, the Germans
took from the department of 1'as De
Calais a party of inhabitants, that
they used them as shields against the
fire of the Frencn and that forty were
thus killed.
The document says the German gov
ernment on January 24. 1916, denied
mistreatment uf inh.,nitant.s but says
the French note, "sworn testimony re
garding measures taken in April at
Lille shows the degree of faith which
can be placed In their denial."
Crowder, judge advocate general of the
army. General Crowder holds that the
state soldiers are not subject to duty
outside of the United Slates unless and
until they are formally drafted by or
der of the president; that they are un
der control of the federal government
and not of their respective state gov
ernors, and that they are entitled to
me same pensions anu privileges as .-.,.,. i c.,nf, i,.,s n hed Fin
r,',-'.u!!irs- ... , . ipainie and established bis he.idquar-
While congress l.y Joint resolution I iers th, K,.s ,; .,.eviei- Mexican
has conferred upon the president au- j ,.nslll h,.r said todav He is suer
thority to draft the militia and national ; inloninrr the distribution of his armv
guard, in his discretion, the general , hrough the Hermosillo. Ures and
pomis oui mai ine president nas not t jsahnuripa districts for the campaign
1 Consul Lelcvirr confirmed the re
I port that Colonels Kosario Garcia
land Frcdeiickc Mesa, with a hand Df
; Villistas. -ire encamped in the Ker
' mudes mountains in the southern
; part of the Sahuaripa district. He
! denied, hov.-c r. that there was dan
ger to f'H . it.'M is on account of their
. presence, saying that the number of
'overnnient troops si nt into t'ae
Sahi'aiipa district will make it 1m-
exercised that authority. In the mean-
the German J time, he says, the status of the stipu
lation is that of militia called into the
service of the I'nited States for one
of the purposes specified in the consti
tution, that is to protect the United
I States from invasion "
There are three classes of troops
now in federal service, according to the
opinion. They are first, the "organ
ized militia'' of Texas, Arizona and
New Mexico, summoned by the presi
dent in his first call, for state troops,
under the I lick law of 1903: second, the
national guard automatically placed in
federal service under the new national
defense act; the Hay-Chamberlain
bill: and third, the regular troops. The
militia which have not qualified under
the new law have status identical with
those of Texas, Arizona and New
Mexico.
possible fo the Villistas- to raid min
ing properties s'L.ccessl'ully
Uroin Mexican sources it was
learned today that the sealed verdict
sent ny .cm-rai r . r. A. 'avis to asn- j
macron arter the conclusion ot the in
vestigati.m of the shooting of An
tonio Rodriguez, a Mexican musician,
by Private Tucker. Eleventh infantry.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 30. Thirty- !
three New Jersey City firemen
are reported to have been killed
early this morninq by a terrific
explosion in the plant of the Na
tional Storaqe company, on Black
Tom island, near Communipaw.
N. J., where they had gone to
fight a fire, resulting from a ter
rific explosion just thirty minutes
earlier.
Nineteen carloads of ammuni
tion are said to have been stored
on the railroad tracks on the
island. All of them are believed
to have been blown up.
Edrrond MacKenzie, president
of the National Storage comDary,
said at his home at Plainfield,
N. J... at 3:30 o'clock this morn
ing that hi had just received a
telegram informing him that a '
great fire was raging in the plant
of his company, following an ex
plosion. The i'llant of the storage company
consists of about 23 warehouses and
three r four covered piers, one of
which is a powder pier, and Mr. Mc
Kenzie explained that there wa3 no
combustibles in the warehouse. Ha
expressed the belief from the meager
information he had received, that th
explosion must have been in trains
of munitions which had been run to
the powder docks, awaiting removal
on lighters to ships anchored in the
bay. He declared the plant was
valued at about $7,000.oon.
Joseph AVilson of the immigration
hospital on F.Ilis Island, reported to
Manhattan police headquarters at
3:J." this morning that two barges
loaded with ammunition lying along
side the dock at Ellis Island were
ablaze from stem to stern. He' said
they bad drifted down the "on v from
I the direction of Staten Island. Black
Tom Island is about a quarter of th'i
way from Ellis Island to Statin Is-
land. The patients in the Ellis
; Island hospital were ordered trans
', ferred to another island of the Ellis
Island group.
I Explosions on the barges were oc-joupyh-g
at frequent intervals, al
; though none of them was especially
' severe. The fire boat New York is
: standing bv and efforts are being
j made to confine the flames to tli3
ba rue.
j All Manhattan Island, Brooklyn and
cities in New Jersey were shaken
i shortly after 2 o'clock this morning by
a terrific explosion. Frantic efforts
' wore made by the police to locate the
; scene of the evident disaster.
1 The force of the explosion was so
great that thousands of heavy (date
glass windows in office buildings in
i Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn were
shattered. Streets for many blocks in
: the downtown sections were literally
i strewn with broken glass.
i Thousands of persons swarmed into
the streets in all parts of the city from
j buildings, subway exits and railway
I stations running about in a panic.
Many women became hysterical. Po
i lice whistles were blown frantically but
the police themselves did not know
I what it was all about.
The first explosion was followed bv
. a second at 2:39, slightly less violent.
but which again shoo all New York
and shattered many more buildings.
A report received at 2:40 was that
several carloads of shrapnel consigned
WILSON WORKS ON SPEECH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FORT MONROE. Va.. July 29.
President Wilson arrived here this af
ternoon on the naval yacht Mayflow
er. The yacht anchored in the Roads
and the president did not come ashore.
Mr. Wilson has spent many hours of
the cruise disposing of a quantity of
work, including a part of his speech
accepting the democratic nomination
of the presidency.
ertirelv exonerated Tucker. General
Davis sent a copv of the verdict and I Y lne entente allies and lying in the
findings of the court to General ! IjItu-'k Tom, where the Eagle Oil works
Calles. 1 are located, had exploded. So far as
Modification- of the existing orders ' kwn at that hour no one had been
lo border ;':ards is planned bv Gen-' '".lured.
o-al Davis, it is learned on good I Brooklyn police headquarters re
uuthority, to prevent shooting across i Port''d that ten persons had been killed
the inttrn-.ti.mal line under' similar ' in an explosion in tho subway at Wash
oireums'iuiccs to the Rodriguez case. I 'ngton street and Myrtle avenue, but
In the future, as in the Past, how- tne report was unfounded.
ever, no persons will be permitted
to cross the hordt r except at the
immigration stations, and sentries
will be permitted by their orders to
Stay Comes Three Hoars
Before Time for Execution
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
N'BW 'YORK, '.July 29. A stay of
execution in behalf of Charles Stie
low, a farm hand, was granted to
night by Supreme Court Justice Guy,
throo hours before the man con
demned to death for a double murder
at Medina, was to have been executed
at Sing Sing prison. It was the" sec
ond time since dawn that the jurist
had interceded to save the life of
Stielow, whose keepers in the death
houac and whose neighbors in his
home town are firmly convinced he
is innocent of the crime for which he
was convicted.
The order directs the district at
torney of Orleans county to show
cause before a justice of the supreme
court on August 23 why a new trial
should not be granted Stielow.
hiielow was convicted of the mur
der of Charles Plielns, a farmer and
his housekeeper, Margaret Wolcott,
at Medina, in July 1915.
(Continued on Page Three)
CAFTAN U
E ASKS SPECIAL
PROTECTION FOR DEUTSCIILAND
Italian Paper
Office Wrecked
By Frenzied Mob
Republican A.. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 29. The busi
ness office of the Italian newspaper
U Progresso in this city, ftas wrecked
tonight by a mob which demanded
that the management of the paper
begin a campaign to obtain freedom
for Carlo Tresca, a leader of the In
dustrial Workers of the World, who
is imprisoned in Minnesota. Trcsra
is awaiting trial, It is said, in con
nection with the killing of a deputy
sheriff, about three-weeks ago.
Shortly before the mob went to the
newspaper office there was an in
cipient riot a block away in which
two policemen were injured. Police
reserves rescued their fellow officers.
Six prisoners were, placed in com
mandeered automobiles and rushed
a police station.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
WASHINGTON. July 29. Special
protection for the German merchant
submarine Deutschland w hen she I
starts out of American territorial wat
ers was asked of the American gov
ernment late today, with the intima
tion that the boat would leave Balti
more sometime tomorrow. After con
ferences between state, treasury and
navy departments officials it was
ruled that no extraordinary precaution
could be ordered because the United
states views the Deutschland as an
ordinary merchantman.
It is understood that the application
for protection was made through the
collector of customs at Baltimore and
that Captain Koenig, the submarine
commander, desired a coast guard
cutter or naval vessel to escort htm
down Chesapeake bay and to the three I
mile limit. Unless steps are taken to
prevent It, the submarine probably will
be followed out by a fleet of small
craft carrying newspaper correspon
dents, photographers and sightseers. It
is said too. that the Gemans fear some
British merchant ship miglit go to sea
in the wake of the Deutschland, adver
tising her presence to the allied cruis
ers waiting off the Virginia capes or
even attempting to ram her as soon as
she left American territorial waters.
Officials of the state department
held that while American neutrality
to must be fully safeguarded, it would be
ja bad precedent for the government to
convoy or accord any other unusual
attention to a vessel that can be rated
only as a merchantman. Precautions
already have been taken to see that
the submarine is not molested within
tho three mile limit. Since the re
ported Incursion or a British cruiser
between the Virginia capes last week,
the armored cruiser North Carolina
and three destroyers have been patroll
ing off Cape Denny.
Nearly all the fire apparatus in
Brooklyn was called out in the belief
that somewhere in that part of tho
city there was a great fire but no trace
of one was to he found.
Police headquarters in all boroughs
received reports of disasters of all
kinds, both in New York and New
Jersey. One report was that an oil
I ship was blown up near the Statue of
j Liberty.
Another report was that three car
loads of shrapnel consigned to the en
tente allies had exploded, one after an
other, at Jersey City, still another
was that the Standard Oil. Company
plant at Bayonne had blown'up.
The New York telephone company
announced at 2:30 that all telephone
lines leading from New Y'ork to near
by points in Jersey City were down
and communication was almost im
possible. Police headquarters in Manhattan
expressed the belief that many thous
ands of dollars damage had been
caused in this city by the explosion.
It was conjectured that the combina
tions of vaults in the financial district'
might have been so seriously damaged
(Continued on Page Two)
Deutschland is Ready to
Start on Perilous Voyage
' y,
Ger- I
Republican A. P Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Jul.v 29. Tho
man submarine sea freighter Deutsch
land, which arrived at this port from
Germany three weeks ago tomorrow
nisht. with a cargo of dye stuffs, lay
snugly in . her barricaded berth st
Locust point tonight, all ready to
start on her perilous homewnrd voy
age, l'he tug Thomas F. Timmins,
which met the Deutschland at t h z
Virginia capes, and convoyed her Ho
Baltimore, was close by with steam
up.
Officials of the Eastern Forwarding
company, the submarine's American
tgents, adhering to their policy of
reticence regarding the sailing nlans
of the under-water liner, refused to
comment on the Washington dispatch.
os sent, out late today, concerning tho
probability of her sailing tomorrow or
tho intimation that protection was
desired for the Deutschland in Amer
ican waters That they are con
cerned about the boat's safety diii-ins;
her run down Chesapeake Bay seemed
to be indicated in a report, regarded
as reliable, that it is planned to have
a second tug accompany the sub
marine and the Timmins as far as
the capes to guard against the possi
bility of "accidents" enroute.
