weather I . .. >: cy~Y /> ir'
Showers late tonight and tomorrow; M# A ^ A > A > A A j > A . A -1 ITwll ?????????
warmer tonight; moderate variable B ^^B ^B B^^Br 1 JLI > . M
Ml" 1^ jMl' I I ^ 1 | V I I \ W WrM Within thm Hoar"
Temperature for twenty-four hours H r^m M/r H ^4 lAl
ending pm Highest. at p.m. to- W J V MM ' %f TW fl CS9
day: lowest. 61. a.m.. today. ^ > M. e H H T H ^L. H . _ *
report
?- V y M I y [ / Imri Net Clmlatln. Until ( My,
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IS. ^?- ^ Vn^ P ~ >-^ HIS. Dally Anracc. IU?| SuAay, MATS.
No. 29,4l7 " . WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1916-EIGHTEEN PAGES. ' ? " 7 ONE CENT?
= ' 1 I I ZZI
ITALIAN ADVANCE
GUARD WITHIN 13
MIOOF TRIESTE
Occupy Suburbs of Tolmino.
Which Is Being Evacuated
by the Enemy.
AUSTRIAN FLttl tbUflftb |
FROM THE MENACED PORT
!
Reported to Have Sailed From
Trieste for an Unknown
Destination.
; ]
NEW GAINS ON THE ISONZO
i
Home Reports Farther Progress for 1
Italian Forces, With Capture 1
of Strong Austrian
Positions.
PARIS, August 15, 4:00 p.m.?
Italian troops have entered the 1
suburbs of Tolmino, which is un"
der continuous shell fire, accord- 1
ing to a dispatch to La Liberie
from Turin today. The Austrians, ,
says the dispatch, are evacuating
the city.
GENEVA, August 15, via
-T-, T. __ ]
1'aris, 4:45 p.m.? 1 ne Italian au.vance
guard moving southeast
from Gorizia is within thirteen
miles of Triest, whence the
greater part of the Austrian fleet
has sailed for an unknown destination,
according to a telegram
from Bucha, Switzerland, today.
Th$ southern and western
suburbs of Tolmino are burning
and the fall of the city is expected
at any moment.
Successes on Isonzo.
ROME, August 15, via Lon- (
don, 3 p.m.?On the Carso plateau 1
and to the east of Gorizia, along j
the Isonzo front, the Austrians t
have suffered further reverses at J
the hands of the Italians, today's J
official statement says. Austrian ?
erltrenchments in both these <
regions were captured.
Counter Attacks Bepulsed.
The statement follows: I
"On the Carso during: the nigrht of /
August 14 the gallant troops of the 11th
Army Corps repulsed several counter at- ,
tacks, and attacked the enemy's lines
to the west of Sainte Grado and Monte '
Pecinka. Several sections of the enemy's
trenches were captured and 1,419 prison- 1
ers, including thirty-one officers, were
taken.
"In the hilly tract east of Gorizia, after
heavy fighting, we carried other hostile
iretrenchment*, taking 220 prisoners, of
whom Ave were officers. 1
"On the remainder of the front the
enemy made the usual demonstrations 1
against our position*; at Monte Plana, in 1
the Trfenz valley, on the Forame river, 1
at Kelizzon, Boite, Monte Colombara on i 1
the Asiago plateau, at Monte Cimone and 1
Monte Seluggla, near Astico In the Pozina i
basin ami on the J'asubio. He was unsuccessful
everywhere. 1
"Enemy aircraft dropped bombs on <
Monfalcone. Roncl, Saint Canziano and : '
Pieris. No casualties or damage resulted."
(
t
Italians Repulsed, Says Vienna.
VIENNA, via Berlin, August 15.?To- ]
day's official statement dealing with 1
the Italian front says:
"In the district between the sea and j
the Vlpaceo valley several Italfhn at
tempt* to approach our strong posi- ]
tfons were frustrated by our fire. On
the heights east of Gorizia our troops
again repulsed a strong attack and
took prisoner ten officers and 140 men.
Monte San Gabriele and Monte Santo
were violently shelled by hostile artillery.
"On the Tyrolean front a minor enterprise
resulted in bringing in eightynine
prisoners, among whom v\ ery live
officers and one machine gun."
FAIR PROGRESS REPORTED.
- *,
Conferee! on D. C. Bill Consider
Some Senate Amendments.
The conferees of the Senate and !
* House on the District appropriation bill i
put in another morning working on the j
District bill todav and rer,orr?/i ?.?.
end of the meeting that fair progress j
had been made with the consideration i
of a number of Senate amendments.
The details of the conference were \
no' disclosed, but-it is understood that'
none of the bin items in controversy !
waa touched. The conferee* will meet i
again this afternoon or tomorrow nioi n- j
I ng.
Priioucrs Captured by French.
PARIS. August 15.?More than 2.000
unwounded prisoners and seventy machine
guns were captured by the French
in their operations north of the Somme
from August > to August 13, according
to a weekly review issued by the war office.
The number of prisoners was increased
by ?0t>. who were taken in the
Verdun sector.
German TJ-Boat Reported Sunk.
COPENHAGEN, August 14, via London,
August 10.?The Dagens Nyheder today
publishes a rumor that a German
submarine was sunk by a Swedish
"cruises between Stockholm and the
. Skargaard last Thursday.
HUGHES EXPECTED
TO CARRY MONTANA
j
Drift of Political Sentiment
Seems to Promise Him
Liuuiui ai ?uiv.
RE-ELECTION OF STEWART
AS GOVERNOR LIKELY
Senatorship in Doubt, and May Be
Determined by Presidential
Besults.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
BUTTE, Mont., August 15.?
Drift of political sentiment ;n
Montana at this time appears to
indicate the electoral vote going
to Hughes; to possible re-election
of the democratic governor and |
state officials, with the United
States senatorship in doubt, the
outcome of that contest depending
much upon the volume of the
presidential vote.
Before this. Montana has split her
rote on the presidential and the' state
tickets. In 3908 the republicans carried
the presidency hv a plurality of 3,007
md the democrats the governorship by a
plurality of 1.490. In 1912 the combined
raft and Roosevelt vote was 40.968
igainst Wilson's 27,941.
Conditions Are Changed.
There are new elements this year,
however, which render dependence
upon form sheets unsafe and compel
consideration of the changed conditions,
rhe November vote will be immensely
lugmented by the rapidly Increasing
population of the past four years and
the accession of women's votes to be
cast for the presidency for the first
:ime.
The new blood in the state is shown j
>y the heavy to tal of immigration, i
\ccording to figures furnished by the
state statistician, today, it is estimated
hat the population has increased since
1912 over 300,000. He estimates that this
will mean a new vote of 160,000 in November.
Of this new population 70,000 has
?one into the eastern agricultural seclion
of the state. Republicans claim
:hat the majority of it is republican.
Women Not All Registered.'
Up to this time only 60 per cent of
he woman eligibles have registered,
Dut there is another registration day.
There is a woman candidate for the rejublican
nomination for representative
n Congress. The Congressional Union
s trying to align the woman voters
tgainst President Wilson on national
voman suffrage, but the democratic
vomen's organization has thus far re'used
to sympathize.
The increased agricultural vote is
igured to accrue to the benefit of the
epublican party, through the influx of
'armers in great numbers from repubican
states, especially Iowa and Illinois.
The democrats will gain from the
labor vote in the mining centers. Nobody
knows yet how the woman's vote
will swing. A contest over the statewide
prohibition to be settled at the
polls is not expected to enter into the
national political situation, and may
riot affect the gubernatorial contest, although
that may depend upon the personality
of the republican nominee to
be chosen at the primaries August 30.
[Jov. Stewart, democratic incumbent,
will be renominated without cavil, and
will not figure in the liquor fight on
either side.
Views of Conservative Observers.
While not admitted for a moment by
the democrats, who are full of optimism |
as they are of aggressiveness and
energy, the prediction that Mon- j
Lana will go for Hughes comes from
the conservative judgment of independent
politicians who deal with the
broad teatures of the campaign and j
measure the flow of the popular cur- !
rent as they see it. At the same time.
Lhey admit that the administration of
lov. Stewart cannot be with justice
seriously assailed, nor his character ir?
any way attacked. They give the
Jemocrats the better of the chance on
ihe governorship.
The republican presidential ticket is!
expected to be the stronger for the fol- !
lowing reasons: That protection appeals
to the wool, wheat and smelting
interests; that there is widespread dissatisfaction
with President Wilson's
foreign policy and his handling of the
Mexican situation from the start, and
that the business interests are leaning
to the republican party.
Bull Moose Back in Fold.
The progressives have returned to
the republican party, even former
Senator Joseph M. Dixon now supporting
the ticket toyally. In Montana
the progressive vote in 1912 was a
Roosevelt personal vote in large
measure. It, however, included many
democrats and first voters who followed
the Roosevelt temperament. The
democrats will return, and the first
voters choose their own path.
The democrats will lose votes from
their ranks on the administration's
foreign policy. There is a large percentage
of Irish in the Democraic labor
vote, and dissatisfaction is rife among
them from their antipathy to England.
It is admitted here that a great many
Irish democrats will follow the Hermans
in voting for Hughes. There is
a great deal of dissatisfaction with the
criticism of the administration's course
with Mexico. Now there is grumbling
because the militia is being held on
the border, unnecessarily, it is charged.
Tariff Issue Subordinate.
These will be more vital questions
in the campaign than the tariff While
protection as a policy is supported
heartily in Montana, the fact is that o.t
account of t he war fe'ool growers are
getting 31 centH for their clip, against
former IK rents, and $1.&0 is quoted on
wheat, while cattle and horses are
high. The democrats hope that the
tariff Issue will he submerged by contentment
of the ranchmen.
Senator Meyers, democratic Incumbent.
will be renominated without opposition
for the rnited States senatorsh*p.
alld wil1 rf,|y mainly upor* the
party strength, since he has not been
in public life long enough to establish
a personal strength greater than that
of his party. The two republican candidates
for the nomination, Charles N.
Pray, former representative in Congress
for three terms, and State Sen'
(Continued on Ijjeoond P?f?.)
JOHNSON THY
ABOUTCAPITAL
Nation. Under No Obligation,
Contributes Much: Local
Taxpayers Owe Everything
and Pay Little.
NATIOM, NOT ITS PEOPLE.
CONTROLS THE CAPITAL
Congress Alone Controls Capital Expenditures
and Is Not Extravagant
in Respect to Them.
No. V.
Editorial Correspondence of The Star.
BY THEODORE W. NOTES.
"Washington has a champagne appetite
and a beer income. It raises
only I1S.79 per capita and wants to
expend $35.45 per capita. You vote in
favor of having your constituents help
make up the $16.66 deficit. You will be
highly rewarded. Your names will appear
often in the society columns of the
Washington papers. * Yet there
is a rule of common sense &nd common
justice: a country, a state or a city is
entitled to have expended for its own
benefit just what it is willing to raise
in taxes or to incur in public indebtedness
and not another dollar and not
another cent. If Washington insists
on eating nothing but cake it should
be permitted to raise the dough."
In these words is condensed the Johnsonian
doctrme of the relation of capital
to nation. It is in substance, as
follows:
(I.) WaNh Inert on so controls capital
expenditures as to be responsible for
them and is extravagant in those expenditures.
(II.) Washington responsibly con**?
'??" " ?? for onnltnl ntiilnO.
nance and in stingy in tax paying;, and j
in. in fact, only half taxed an compared
with other American citien.
The maintenance and upbuilding: of
the National Capital are the primary
and practically the sole concern of the L
local renideiitn. The nation, upon which )
no capital responsibility falla. and
which nhould in equity contribute toward
itn upbuildng little or nothing;,
ban contributed nearly all. The local
residents, upon whom the capital responsibility
directly fallx and who
nhould contribute practically everything;,
have, In fact, contributed comparatively
little.
I III.I Washington, upon which the
nole responsibility for the capital**
municipal maintenance rent*, ban vulnerably
failed to meet thin great obligation.
<IV.) The nation, outnide of Washington.
upon which only an Infinitenimal
obligation concerning the .National
Capital reatn, has met thin obligation
liberally and nohly.
1.
Congress Alone Controls Capital Expenditures.
Waahlngton doen not control capital
expendlturen. Since it doen not control
thene expendlturen It cannot be extravagant
In renpect to them. The nation
which doen control thene expenditure*
in not and ha* not been extravagant In
thin particular. Representative Johnnon'n
dlncunnion of the relation of capital.income
and expenditure*, considered
In connection with the Joint commit'
tee's finding*, unintentionally demonstrate*
the equity of the half-and-half
j law.
i Representative Johnson, analyzing the
figures of comparative expenditures of
Washington and other American cities,
derives from them conclusions discreditable
to Washington.
At page 1 636 of the "Hearings Before
the Joint Fiscal Committee" is printed
an elaborate table, comparing Washington's
expenditures with those of
other American cities, accompanied by
full explanatory comment. These figures
and this comment should, in fairness,
be read' arid studied in connection
with Representative Johnson's strictures.
He says that Washington's total, per
capita, expenditure is $."">4.",, and that
of this amount $18.7!) is derived from
local revenue and $16.66 comes from
the national government. I have not
verified the last two figures as census
figures. But for the purpose of this
argument let us assume that they are
correct.
Mr. Johnson treats the $16.66 of difference
between the amount which Congress
exacts from the District in faxes
and the amount which it determines
must be spent on the nation's city to
maintain it worthily as a local deficit.
met. by a federal subsidy, wrung from
the poverty of his outraged constituents,
and the constituents of his associate
congressmen.
"Washington," he picturesquely says,
"has a champagne appetite and a beer
income. It raises only $18-.71) per capita
and wants to expend $.*'.5.4.5 per capita.
You vote in favor of having your constituents
help make up the 91(5.60
deficit."
The obvious injustice in this slur lies,
of course, in the fact that Washington
has nothing whatever to do with determining
either the amount which it
pays in taxes or the amount which is
expended upon the capital. Congress,
in which it is not represented, decides
both points. Its only function is to :
pay to an alien taxgatherer whatever j
amount that taxgatherer demands.
The mockery of representing the na- j
tional expenditures upon the capital as j
Washington's "champagne appetite" is ;
offensively obvious.. What Washing- j
ton wants either in respect to the j
gratification of its municipal appetite
and aspirations or the raising of its
municipal income is negligible, and is
neglected, in the calculations.
Champagne Appetite and Beer
Income.
The $35.45 per capita of capital expenditure.
which demonstrates, according to
Mr. Johnson, Washington's "champagne
appetite," represents the amount which
Congress, with full and exclusive power
in its hands, has decided to be the
amount which should be expended to
develop worthily the nation's city. The
$18.7? per capita, suggesting, according
to Mr. Johnson, Washington's "beer income,"
represents the full amount of
tax revenue which Congress, representing
the nation, has felt that it could
equitably exact from the local residents.
The $16.66 deficit represents the
difference between the amount which
Congress by imposing (the joint committee
savs) a full and equitable Sax
burden upon the local community ffas
been able to secure from It and the
amount which Congress, representing
the nation, determines to be necessarily
expended tft the upbuilding of the nation's
city. Mr. Johnson deprecates national
participation in meeting this socalled
deficit. He slurs the congressman
who believes in national participation
in capital upbuilding as voting to
/ V
?
have his constituents help improperly j
to make up this local deficit in order to <
enjoy himself the high reward of mention
in the society columns of the 1
Washington papers. i
The same thought is carried to its
logical conclusion in his final para- i
graph. A city is entitled, he says, to 1
expend for its own benefit only what i
it is willing to raise in taxes or to I
borrow. Xo one is concerned in the city! ?
of Washington except the Washington 1
taxpayers, and no one but these taxpayers
should spend a cent in its maintenance
and upbuilding. "If Washington
insists on eating nothing but cake
it should be permitted to raise the
dough." Of course, unrepresented Washington
has nothing in the world to say
as to what it shall eat. If it. eats municipal
cake it is not on account of its
insistence, but because Congress so decrees.
Its only privilege in the matter
is that of raising the amount of dough
which Congress determines to exact j
from it without its consent. j
Congress Not Extravagant in D. C.
Expenditures.
The facts and figures submitted to
the joint fiscal committee (see hearings,
pages 1636-1<>40) show that Congress,
in its wisdom, has spent on the i
current maintenance of the National!
Capital distinctly more in respect toj4
the most important items than self- \'
governing and self-developing cities!
have expended upon themselves.
Congress has, however, skimped in
its expenditures on outlays?on permanent
improvements at the capital
for tne benefit largely of the future?
and has used part of the money thus
saved to pay off floating indebtedness,
thus reducing the interest payments
on indebtedness and to meet unexpected
resurrected alleged ancient /
debts. I
Hn* Cougre** been extravagant in
these large expenditures of the nation'*
and the loeal community'* money on j
current maintenance of the capital f;
\o. Every rent of it and more xvn* i
needed. Analysi* and *tudy of the an- !
nun I eMtiniatCM and appropriation* will :
whow a list of absolute need* In cur- i *
rent maintenance and permanent dc- j
velopmont di*elo*ed each year by the j
entimatc* and Only partly met by the j
appropriation*.
This subject is discussed fully in our I ,
brief in the argument that no more !
money has been raised under the half- 1
and-half law than is needed for cur- j
rent maintenance and reasonable de- ,
velopment. Analysis of the Commissioners'
estimates for this year will 1
disclose the truth, both as to needs i
of current maintenance and of per- ]
manent improvement, like the Great
Falls power exploitation project.
Study of the representations and the j
demonstrated facts concerning the
needs of the capital* submitted at the
hearings on the District hill before the! 1
House and Senate subcommittees on
appropriations will bring the same con- 1
elusion.
Repeatedly has Congress felt compelled
by financial conditions to deny
the capital maintenance and development
items whose necessity or great
desirability was generally conceded. If
Congress has erred, it is not in the direction
of extravagance, but in the di- !
rection of an unwise and uneconomical 1
"economy." Congress can never be ,
convicted of spending too much on the
capital, whatever might be the result
of its trial on the charge of having i
spent too little and of having left un-i <
satisfied obvious and conceded needs,'
both in respect to certain items of
maintenance and many projects of im- ?
provement of the municipality's permanent
equipment.
Sound principles of wise and farseeing
economy should he applied to
all of the capital expenditures, not so
much because Congress is spending a
contribution of the nation's money on
the nation's city as because it Is spending
the money of somebody else than
the nation upon the nation's city, and
that somebody else is without voice in
the councils cither as to taxation or
the expenditure of Its tax money. There
is thus a double obligation upon Congress
to be genuinely and wisely economical.
And Congress has been thus both
wisely liberal and genuinely economical.
for wise liberality and reul
economy are identical.
Congress has not only been economical?often
too economical?In its
capital Appropriations, but it has
thrown the Treasury safeguards about
the expenditure of these appropriations
of the nation's and the local community's
money. It has thus protected
the capital's funds against grafters and '
has rendered every dollar effective in |
the amount of 100 cents for the benefit 1
of the capital's upbuilding. (
The showing of unmistakable municipal
needs made by the Commissioners
in their estimates, restricted by an unwise
law, and in the hearings before
| the congressional appropriations subcommittee,
indicated broadly that about
$15,000,000 are now necessary annually
to maintain and develop the capital in
*
i manner worthy of it as the nation's |
-ity. I
How much of that amount ought the I
ocal community to be required to I
aise? More than half? Less than half?
We hnve tried to convince Congrrmm
:hat the miming by taxation of onelulf
of that part of thim expenditure
vhich im authorized in the Ilimtrict apiropriation
bill impomem upon the local
'(immunity a per capita tax burden
which. however measured, im at learnt
im heavy am that which the average
tmerlean city and the American cittern ' r
noxt clomely approximating Washing- j l
on in mlze and conditionm of environ- .
nent Impome upon theinmelvem.
If Congress im convinced that the (
Aaahingtonian's tax. burden im, under .
he prement arrangement, am heavy am ?
hat of the Americanm remident in other |
'itiems comparable with Washington. |
ind if thum rcamonable am between '
IVamhiitgton and the nation, tl^n we |
inbmit the eximting arran^emenAhould ;
>e maintained. f
Mr. Johnson's figures and facts tend to
jphold broadly the half-and-half law t
which he attacks. j
His figures indicate that Congress is j
ible to exact from the helpless District ; n
axpayers only about one-half of the i
tmount which it thinks should be ex- I ''
tended on the National Capital. The I ^
loint committee after thorough chnsid- '
iration says that this local taxation j x
ind the total local tax burden are all j
:hat they should equitably he, both ah- .
olutely and in comparison with what is js
mid by the residents of comparable j
ities. The joint committee demon- j
itrates that the meeting of this differ- li
Since between the full cost of National jn
Capital maintenance and the tax money j
-easonably exacted from capital resi- ja
lents is an equitable obligation rest- 1
ng squarely and solely upon the na- f,
tion; and is not a local deficit and a ?
federal subsidy for the local benefit.
In connection with this finding of the
loint committee Mr. Johnson's demon- Id
stration that of the total capital ex- i n
penditure nearly one-half must be de- I
ived from the national funds is a p'rac- jp
ileal vindication of the half-and-half io
aw ^ I*
I _
WILL STRIVE TO PASS BILL.
a
Favorable Report Ordered on Addi- Q
tional Judgeships for D. C. ' "
The Carl in bilj to create two addi- ^
Lional judgeships In the District Supreme
Court was ordered favorably reported
from the House judiciary committee
today. Every effort will be made ^
!o enact the bill at this session, as rep- h
resentatives of the bar of the District a
have laid before members of the com- y
mittee the urgent need for the two v
appointments.
The bill provides "that there shall r
be appointed by the President, by and
with advice and consent of the Senate,
two additional associate justices of the
Supreme Court of the District of Col- v
umbia." j
??????? v
Victories for Turks Claimed. i
BERLIN. August 15, by wireless to ISayville.?Turkish
troops have chased J
the followers of former Emir Vaussein v
from their intrenchments in Ashar 1:
pass, eighty kilometers south- of lie- 0
dlna, says a dispa ch given out by the
Dverseas News Agency. Sheik Ham id
Elmansur has submitted to the Turks.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate:
Met at 11 a.m.
Adopted Resolution calling for
battleships target practice rec- "
orils of J 916. ^
Senator Hardwick, In Senate
Speech. accused Charles E. t
Hughes of "waving the bloody jj
shirt." $
Resulted debate on government e
shipping bill.
Finance committee met to con- *
sider revenue bill as approved V
by democratic caucus.
House:
Met at 11 a.m.
Took up conference report on D
naval appropriation bill. \
Conference reports on Philip- ^
pine and child labor bills pre- S
seated and ordered printed.
Ways and means committee ei
postponed action on Rainey mix- n
ed flour bill.
Report filed on Webb bill to encourage
export trade. 81
West Virginia flood relief ap- ^
propriation resolution introduced. P
*
? *
I
'r^> ^,0 "5>L = ,
5jjl 1
PRESIDENT HEARS
VIEWS OF LEADERS
Intertains Members of HiS(
Campaign Committee at
White House Luncheon.
After * conference today between
resident Wilson and the members of
he democratic campaign committee, j
ance C. McCormick, chairman of the J
lational committee, announced that the j
'resident would make no speaking? tour,
mt probably would accept several inflations
to speak in different places.
Between stages of trying to settle the
eriously threatened railroad strike, Preslent
Wilsbn today listened to the potical
views of the men charged with
lanaging his campaign for re-election
nd entertained his visitors at luncheon,
"hey left the White House this afternoon
or a visit to Secretary McAdoo, at the
'reasury.
The politicians with the President toay
were the officers of the democratic i
ational committee, and the newly apointed
campaign committee. Among the
dicers of the committee at the White
louse were Vance McCormick, chairman;
lomer S. Cummings, vice chairman; Repesentative
Carter Glass, seeretarv TOan
;1 Roper of the organization bureau. Sentor
Walsh, in charge of Chicago headuarters;
Representative Doremus. chairlan
of the democratic congressional comlittee,
and Robert Woolley of the pubicity
bureau.
Phases of Campaign Discussed.
They went to the White House In a
ody at 11 o'clock, and until the luncheon
our, 1 o'clock, talked with the President
bout all phases of the campaign, likewise
obtaining from the President his
iew? as to the best methods to pursue.
Almost in unanimity the democratic
nanagers, tnciuCing some of the most
stute men in the party, took an opunistic
view of the future in talks
vith their chief. They told him that
he masses of the people sympathize
vith him, and declared that the camtaign
trio of Charles E. Hughes, the re>ublican
nominee, has done the demorats
110 especial harm. On the contary,
democratic reports from the
vest are to the effect that Mr. Hughes
las proved a disappointment to his
iwn party and to the people generally,
,nd that comparatively, small crowds
tave ruined out to hear him.
In No Hurry for Notification.
So sure are the democratic mangers
that they are not being hurt by
he trip of Mr. Hughes that no arangement
was made today to hasten
he ofTicial notification of the Presilent
and his speecji of acceptance. 3t
s felt that the democrats are in good I
hape, and that early in September j
vill be sufficient time to turn their !
ig guns-loose. , j
The President will next talk with
he members of the progressive cam- j
>aign committee namea to assist the
lemocratic committee. He also will
ntertain them at luncheon.
3ERMAN EMPEROR GOES .
TO THE EASTERN FRONT
BERLIN August 15, via London, 3:30
.m.?Having returned from the
otnme region, Emperor William has
one to the eastern front.
"The emperor has again left for the
astern front," says an official statelent
issued here today, "after having
lsited, toward the end of his stay of
everal days on the western front, the
rmy of the crown prince, and, accom- :
anted by the commander-in-chief, vaious
units behind the battle front."
GUAROSMLN NOI
10 G0T0B0RDER
Strike Situation Regarded as
Responsible for Suspension
of Orders. *
MEASURE OF CAUTION
IN EVENT OF TROUBLE
War Department Cites Gen. Funston,
Indicating Transportation
and Food Difficulties.
?\
Orders for the remaining mobilized
units of the National
Guard, including those of the District
of Columbia now in camp at
Fort Myer, to proceed to the border
have been suspended by the
War Department.
No official explanation has been
made, but it is known that the
delicacy of the railroad strike situation
has been the moving consideration.
The suspension of the orders to the
troops, which would have moved some
25,000 men to the border, should not be
taken as an indication that the President's
negotiations with the rlt.ilroad
brotherhood and the railroad managers
have taken an unfavorable turn. It
is a measure of caution.
Guardsmen May Be Needed.
It was considered highly undesirable
that all remaining guardsmen should
be moved to the border while there was
possibility of a railroad strike in which
they might be called upon to preserve
order throughout some of the states.
There is even the possibility that some
or tne iroopg, in event or a striKe,
might be called^upon to guard or operate
mail trains and trains supplying
the troops already on the border.
The suspension of orders prevents immediate
movement of the troops from
Kentucky, Ohio and Vermont and movement
of all other mobilized units which
were to have gone forward as soon aa
they were equipped. Some of the Kentucky,
Ohio and Vermont troops were
about ready to go to the border.
It is clear that the suspension is not
a revocation of orders. If the railroad
strike situation clears up the troopa
will be moved to the border line.
War Department Explanation.
( The official explanation of the change
at the "War Department is that difficulties
of transportation and equipment,
suddenly developed, have madi
a delay necessary. It is knowr
however, that the railway situation It
trte real cause.
Assistant Secretary Ingraham. acting
Secretary of War, issued the following
statement on the subject, adding that it
was self-explanatory:
"In compliance with recommendation
of Gen. Funston, contained in the following
telegram, all troop movements
toward the border have been suspended
until further orders:
" 'In view of possibility of a general
railroad ^strike, I desire to call attention
of War Department to difficulties
that will follow in maintaining food
supply not only of troops in this department
but of the civilian population
as well. These border states produce
but little foodstuffs except cattle.
"'In view of foregoing I recommend
that National Guard organizations
which are about to start for border stations
be retained in their mobilization
camps until such time as the question
of a general strike shall have been determined.'
"
The order for the suspension of the
movement of these troops to the Mexican
border is stated by one high official
"to be entirely indefinite, depending altogether
on developments in the railroad
situation now in a serious stage."
300 OF THE CREW
DF WARSHIP PERISH
Italian Dreadnaught Catches
Fire and Blows Up in Taranto
Harbor.
PARIS, August 15, 5:15 a.m.?
The Italian dreadnaught Leonardo
Da Vinci caught fire and blew up
in the harbor of Taranto, Italy,
and 300 of her crew were drowned,
says a Turin dispatch to the Petit
Journal.
The date of the disaster is given
only as a day in August.
Started in Ship's Kitchen.
The Are, says the dispatch, was discovered
in the dreadnaught's kitchen
and spread rapidly. The captain im
mediately ordered the magazines flooded
and tried to beach the battleship,
but one magazine exploded before thie
could be done. The vessel was turned
over on her side and a large number of
the crew were thrown into the jea.
It is believed that the battleship can
be righted and refloated.
Vessel Launched in 1911.
The Leonardo La. Vlncl was a sister
ship of the Conte DI Cavour and of the
Giullo Cesare and was launched in
October. 1911. Her displacement was
22.000 tons and she was 57514 feet long,
91 ?i feet beam and carried a total company
of 957 men.
Her main battery consisted of thirteen
12-inch guns and her secondary
battery, to stand oft torpedo attack, was
composed of eighteen 4.7-inch guns.
Her engines were of 24,000 horse power,
designed to develop a speed of 22.1
knots.
. ,_r
KAILKOAOS OFFER
EIGHT-HOUR DAY;
HOPEFOR PfACE
President's Efforts Appear
Likely to Bear Fruit and
Avert Strike.
COMMITTEE OF MANAGERS
AT WHITE HOUSE AGAIN
A. B. Garretson, Representing Conductors,
Promises Men Would
Avoid Trouble.
DISTINCT PROGRESS IS MADE
Federal Board May Be Named to
Consider All Phases of Controversy
and Make Buling That
Would Be Final.
With President Wilson, mediating
between the railroads and
employes, determined that thereshall
be no general strike, and
resolved to use all his wisdom, influence
and authority to avert
such a calamity, prospects of preventing
the strike grew brighter
today, following a conference of
the President with the railroad .
managers at the White House
this morning.
Conviction that there will be no
strike is growing hourly in the
opinion of those in closest touch
with the situation.
"The brotherhood officials representing
the 400.000 employes
are willing to do all that we legitimately
can to avoid a strike,"
1 * "? / ? 1 ? J A.
i saia /v. 15. oarrethun, prcsiacnt ui
the Order of Railway Conductor*,
and spokesman for the employes,
i this afternoon while awaiting a
second conference with President
, Wilson at 3 o'clock today.
J Eght-hour Day Offered.
The statement by Mr. Garret
son was made after he had been
; told that the delegation of railroad
managers, while in confer
ence with President Wilson this
morning, had conceded the prin;
ciple of the eight-hour day. While
1 the spokesman for the men feels
bound by his promise to the President
to make no statement regarding
the attitude of the men until
1 he makes it personally to the
President it became known on
good authority that the brotherhoods
will probably accept arbitration
if the eight-hour day is
conceded in advance.
t ?o undorotnnri that this sueeestion
was made by the President to the managers,
and that their all-night conferfnee
until 2 o'clock this morning was
to consider and to communicate by
wire with their home offices regarding
making such a substitute proposal as
a working basis for arbitration.
Neither side to this controversy wants
! a strike. Both are determined to present
a bold face just as long as it will
help their cause. The White House
conferences yesterday were occupied
with the presentation of both sides.
The conferences today are to consider
how both sides can get together for an
adjustment of their disagreements.
That negotiations have reached such a
stage is in itself hopeful. Each side
now expresses the hope and some of
the delegation the belief that an adjustment
can be reached.
President May Name Board.
From the railroad managers' camp this
morning came the prediction that the
result would probably be the apj>ointment
by the President of a board to consider
all the elements of the case from
the beginning, that while this board was
in session a statu quo would be preserved,
that the decision of the board should be
retroactive, that if the board decides in
favor of the men they should receive their
pay as from the date of the appointment
of the board.
From still more reliable source came
the intimation that while the brotherhood
men have declared that they would not
arbitrate on any basis they would be
i willing to consider such a proposal as is
* - J -" railrimHa'
1 now presenieu iw ?
! willingness to concede in advance an
| eight-hour day.
It is not expected that a final settlement
can he reached today. Before
final action is taken it -is understood
that the brotherhood officials feel they
must either report back to the 640
brotherhood committee in New York or
I bring them all here, as they have
stated to the President a willingness
to do. These 640 committeemen represent
general chairmen from each of
the four big brotherhoods on each of
the big railway systems engaged in
the controversy.
Previous to the White House conferences
thd brotherhood officials have
protested an unwillingness to arbitrate
under-the New-lands act, on the ground
that it is not elastic enough to give each
j brotherhood sufficient representation.
This act provides for an arbitration
board of six?two from the railroads,
two from the employes and two to represent
the interests of the public?or by
agreement of the parties to the controversy
a board of three. Now, the four
brotherhoods demand representation for
each on the board, which would require
a board of twelve, contrary to the pro*
visions of the Newlands act.
Arbitration Under Law.
Those In close touch with Che situation
pointed out today that If thf em
