m
.4- t7
' THE WEATHER T
WEATHER FORECAST. ' 1
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow partly
cloudy and warmer, probably rain.
Highest temperature yesterday, 77; lowest, 56.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on page 10.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
ONE CENT
In (lflr N,. or1., t Klwwh'i
JwrtlW Nfl. TWO CK-.TS.
VOL. LXXXIII.-NO. 350.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1916. Copyrlf 11. by th, nn Printing ond Publishing AuMUtiton.
INDICATES TEETONS
WlbL MAKE STAND
RUSSIANS TkYVAUSTRIANS IN ITALIAN TRAP
;m; ; ON HEIGHTS OF SAN MARCO
MKUNUHULU 111
FIERCEST FIGHT
Capture Tustobaby After
Most Desperate ltesist
anee of Big Drive.
Fight Fiercely All Day in Seven Attacks Near Goritz
as Sscond Column Moves Up Terrific
Fire at San Gabriele.
Hindenburg's "Word Along
Whole Front Is, "They
Shall Xot Pass."
KAISER SAYS "HOLD
KOVEL AT ALL COST"
Heroic Battle Fought as
Czar's Men Ford Tukh
Under Terrific Fire.
London, Aug. 14, Perched htgh upon
Monte San Marco, east of .Gorltx, Is a
strong detachment of the beaten Aus
trian army, which Is rapidly being sur
rounded and cut off by Italian troops
pressing on toward Trieste.
The Italians aro moving southeaat
from Gorltx along the good road that
runs between Mounts San Gabriele. San
Danlele and the other veaks that here
I form a ridge on the one side and Monte
Mill! MlPnn .... ... UM.I1. W...
.... h.i.u v.. iiiu Vinci, n II1IU 1117
have un excellent chance to envelop
San Marco with their right, flank, the
left I cXDoscd to attack from Ban
Gabriele.
The Italians have fought fiercely nil
day to relic Monte San Marco. The
Austrian oniclal report. Issued at Vienna
to-day, savs that seven attacks were
made In till region.
Moving; I'p to Attack.
South of Gorltg the Italian column
that has taken Oppachlasella, on the
western edge of the Carso plateau. Is
moving to attack Monte San Marco
from the southwest. A read runs along
the eastern face of the mount on which
the two Italian forces may effect a
junction.
London, Aug. !. Fighting on the
long front from I'lnsk to the Rumanian
border Is growing fiercer than ever as
the German and Austrian resistance
tightens. The llusslans won successes
southeast of Lemberg to-day and cap
tured the strongly fortified village of
Tustobaby, but the desperate rcslstnncc
offered by the Teutons is proof that
the Austrlnns and Germans have de
cided to make a stand on their present
line.
MILK PRICES RISE
ONE GENT ON PINTS
Distributers Also Make But
termilk Buyers Tay Ad
ditional Fenny.
The fighting to-day was more stub
born than It has been since the Italians
forced the Austrlans from llorlti. All
despatches say that the Austrlans are
bracing themselves for a determined
stand.
To-day's attacks at the San Gabriele
and San Marco positions have been par-1
tk'uiarly bitter, Austrian artillery and.
machine guns, mounted often In bas-j
Hons hewn from the living rock, pour
ing a terrific fire on the charging
Italians.
Obi Direct HNi to Trieste.
SAY BOTTLES COST MORE
Farmers Get Only Two and
Three Cents at Times,
Says Frodiiccr.
WILSON DELA YS BIG RAILROAD STRIKE;
SECRET PROPOSALS TO BOTH SIDES;
PRESIDENT PUTS BURDEN ON ROADS
BLAME FOR WAR NOT UNBIASED ARBITRATION URGED
HIS. SAYS KAISER
Does Not Envy Man Who Has
Hesponsibility for Conflict
on His Conscience.
Ttctall milk dealers have raised the
price of pint bottles 1 cent and also I .
have made buttermilk cost their patrons I -rnn iivinc
cents Instead of 6. The price of a III. 1 1.!) rr.r.i. run I fi.wrj
Knuth nf the. San Marco he!ht. on the
r. 1 ....... l. - llnn ......a,,,, la' '
apparently unimpeded. Here, on the d. bottle has not been advanced.
rect road to Trieste, with only fleld artll-1 The Sheffield Farms. Slawson-Decker
lery preparation, for they have not yet company Increased the price of grade A ElilNOrOl'
been able to get to the extreme front
their heaviest guns, the Italians took an-
milk per pint bottle from 7 to cents
other stronr. line of Intrenchmcnts with, and grade II pints from 5 to 6 cents I
the bayonet east of 11 111 212. three weeks ago. Grade A milk per)
In this attack, which whs made with i ,- . 11 1 1 .nl. nufl rrnrte It ner
shown throughout the Gorrti fighting,
Tells "Prominent
Neutral" He Is Misundcr
stood Out of His Country.
they raptured S00 prisoners. In some
narts of the work the Italians found gun
emplacements lined with sheets of steel
and cement, seemingly almost Invulner
able except by heavy shells of big cal
ibre and blasting power.
BRITISH DESTROYER
SUNK BY SUBMARINE
Berlin Hcports Torpedoing; in
British Channel London
Admits Loss.
NEW LONDON FINDS
BREMEN-ALMOST
Iondon, Ai. IS (Tuesday). A del-
quart Is ? cents.
Clover Farms Is charging 6 cents for
all pints. It raised the price of u grade patch from Uerne, Swltterland, to the
A quart yesterday from 10 to 11 cents. tendon Dally .Yens quotes tho Kaiser as
All along the front, but especially
in the northern sectors, has gone the i
word of Field' Marshal von 1 linden- ,
burg, the word of the French at Vcr- j
dun, "They shall not pass."
According to despatches the Kaiser !
has Insisted that Kovel timet be held '
nt all costs. That Is why, It is thought '
here, the Russians lire meeting with
tho most formidable' resistance sine:
they commenced their great drive.
Ford Illier In Trrle Fire.
They made gains and progress to-day,
but It was at the cost or more exertion
than before. Advances were made In
the Hereth region, which Is
B&t.mn- (via London), Aug. 14. A
German submarine torpedoed the Krltleh
torpedo boat destroyer Lassoo Sunday
morning, according to an Admiralty
statement Issued to-day,
The olllclal statement says:
One of our submarines Sunday morn
ing torpedoed In the llrltltdi Channel
th Hrltlsh torpedo boat destroyer
Lassoo.
Another oniclal announcement says :
One of our Mibmarines torpedoed In
the Channel between the second and
ti'.'Uh of August seven Ilritlsh and
throe French sailing vessels and three
Brltlnh and two French steamers'.
BRITISH ADMIT LOSS.
Bat OBIclally De-ar I-anoo Was
Destroyed In the Channel.
1-o.noon, Aug. 14. The Ilritlsh tor-
About Everything Afloat Goes
to Meet Submarine, but
Loses It in Haze.
Its grade U milk remains 9 cents per
quart.
Borden's Condensed Milk Company
charges i cents per pint for grade U
milk and does not sell grade A milk
except by tho quart. Its prices for bot
tled grade A Is 10 cents, und grade 11
la Q f.nl. ,r ,m.ir,
The retailers Insist that the Increased J war w;l9 Inevitable."
cost In supplier particularly bottles. The "neutral" related
made It nc.essary for them to rulse the yttes correspondent his talk with the
price of milk per pint. Owing to the
Inability to get from abroad certain attier as follow-. ,..,,.
chemicals that enter Into the manufac- '' d'J not Mrtke me at all as a man
ture of bottles the glass that Is being " was suffering Intense mental (in-
turned out these days Is not so hard as guisn or who nas an mioirmuit umuvu
It used to be. they say, and consequently upon ms conscience.
making the following statement to "an
eminent neutral":
"I do not envy the man who has the
responsibility for this war upon his con
science. 1 at leant am not that man. 1
claim I acted throughout In good faith
and strove hard for peace, even when
to the Mill
BY RE A TO AVERT RAIL STRIKE
Roads of Country Will Not Be Coerced Into Making
Concessions to Employees, President of Penn
sylvania System Asserts.
railroads. If we are forced to assume
the Increased burden of expense that the
men's demands lmntv. It I tirnbable that
niucn is rruciiuiK inn ucr me i.uiuru tnc rarriers will have to ask me com
I'oriTLANP, Ore., Aug. 14. "The way
to settle the great railroad controversy.
States to-day, Is to have the 1'resldent
or some other accepted authority appoint
an arbitration lioard of entirely disinter-
mission to Increase the rates, home
roads cannot stand any extra tlnairclal
burden."
Mr. Ilea does not believe that media
ested persons ; let them hear all the facts j tion as provided tinder the Nevviatids
and then submit their decision. Kaoh act can effectively dispose of the pending
side should agree to .bide by It before -trov.rsy. ewhwub, au
It enters Into the arbitration, said Sam- niicr of representatives by the men
ue! Ilea, president of the Pennsylvania , and by the road, together with several
New London, Aug. 14. From 1 1
o'clock this morning until 5 o'clock In
the afternoon, when a thick haze de
veloped off the coast, practically all the .f a conference with a committee of, the
more bottles are broken.
ConHlt-t ot Dates.
None of the milk producers Invited by1
Mrs, Julian Heath, pieiddent of the Na
tional Housewives' League, to participate
tugs, yachts and power boats In the vl-
"league, which Is Investigating the neces
sity for the propoed Increase In milk
I have wen many
men whose rent was overdue look much
more worried. There are dee,p lines, cer
tainly. acros his forehead and his hair
contali many gray streaks, but the
mine might be said of nioet men of his
dKf.
"I heard afterward that the Kaiser
surTerx greatly from sleeplessness, and
that, with a view to soothln-5 his nerves
Italtroad, here to-day.
"One thing Is certain, the railroads
will not be coerced Into making the con
cessions asked by the men. There has
to be some other way out of It. And the
neutral mediators.
"What's the ue of the Interested
parties appointing mediators'.'" he asked.
"They are not mediators, they arc ad
vocates. They are there to represent
their respective sides, and you can't ex-
publlc Is Just as much Interested as the pect them to do anything else.'
PARALYSIS CLOSES CHINESE SOLDIERS
BIG JERSEY ESTATES' ATTACK JAPANESE
New York Owners Isolate
Themselves in Them und
Declare Quarantine.
clnl.y of FIMiers Island and Oardners I ", 7 ZnrUyZ "'itht. on hl P'cl re.m.
Point were cruising on the Sound In league headquarter. 21 West Forty-ilfth ;,1"llo,, he takes a long motor drive
search for a mysterious submersible that
was seen approaching port before noon.
During the six hours of the chas the
street.
Several sent letters explaining that
I the time of the conference conflicted with
the d ite for the meeting of the board of
In an open automobile.
Talk Becomes General,
After tea the Kmpress and her ladles
opinion was universal that the craft directors of the Dairymen's League at retired, and the conversation became
was the long expected Bremen bearing uMlddlttown. N. Y. Mrs. Heath nsked more general. The Kaiser spoke to each
German dyestuffs to this country after Manning of Otlsvllle. secretary of of us In turn, commonplace I'hrasea
, mi , the Dairymen's League, to set a date for enough, about the weather, new books
running the gantlet of the allied cruls-1 ..." ... .Us ..' " ,c ' i ii ,,i.i!hrrf ih efliriencv
r.
Lookouts w
It wag first
is io os ins pori or ine undersea irav- ' : ; "- - "... . " ,., " ..., .
eller first glimpsed the visitor approach- m"l'rot.1" y , "tana. " " 1 V'3V7.f . llr h,,t
Ing Fisher" Island, twelve mll.s distant. . "r.,',e " following leUcr to Mrs. Heath : keep off the delicate topic f the war, but
between (Jardners Point and For: Pond 1 ' am not qualified To say whether the the leader of our party gave him n op-
Bay. She seemed to be slightly awash. Prlc of ""I should tie Increased to the portunlly by mentioning our aston sh-
had one mas: and what setmed to be a consumer in your city or not, but t am ment and admiration r inr u..jmi.ic
n conference In the near fiituro. The that were telng publlnhcd. the efilclency
whn have been on dutv since ' '"-usewlves heard the milk distributers' of the Oerman railways system a re
rireuluted thn" New London I Hld' of ur on Friday last. mark prompted by our quick and I coin-
e- t of thi und.rea trav"1 billet II, Vary of W.t.rtown. past forUble Journei" f rom Xlunlrt , to Berlin.
Bcr.NARDSvtLLE, N. J.. Aug. 14. Own
ers of big estates In the Somerset Hills
section have Isolated themselves In their
country places on account of the Infan
tile paralysis epidemic. They have de
clared a strict quarantine on the prem
ises. Orant B. Schley, owner of Frohhelm.
an estate of 5,00e acres at Far Hills,
was the first to establish this quarantine.
He took these steps half an hour after a
rase of paralysis had developed In Pea-
pack and discharged all outside help
and laid off carpenters, masons and
other mechanic.
James Cox Brady was the next to
place the same restrictions on his es
tate. Hamilton Farms, at illadsone.
where work on building contracts that
totalled half a million dollars Is at
Kill or Wound 17 Soldiers and
Besiege Bnrrneks Near
Mukden.
Confers at White House
With Union Leaders and
It. It. Managers.
ISSUES STATEMENT
OF PHOGItESS MADE
Unable to Judge Until To
day Whether Basis of
Adjustment Is Found.
SITUATION CRITICAL
STILL, SAY LEADENS
Men Tacitly Agree to Arbi
trate Other Points if
Hour Day Is Accepted.
Washington, Aug. H. Through the
intervention ot President Wilson, who
assumed the rule of mediator to-day
between the railroad managers nnd
employees', tho impending break which
may result In the tleup of the trans
portation lines of the entlro country
wns delayed for at least another
twenty-four hours tun! tho strike con
troversy modified to such mi extent
that a method of settlement appears to
bo In prospect.
The President eutifened at thn
White House tlrst with the tcpte
sentatlves of the 4i)M,flOO members ot
the four brotherhoods and later with
.1...- .!-. -.t.. ..I
soldiers, manager rciueM-imni; i.uiii'.m.-.
lteenforcements arc being ruhed to .vfter these conferences he issued the
the beleaguered garrison from the Jap- ,....,...
i,s fem-es stationed at K.t yuan and , following st.iteim tit .
KM.tinch.il. The fkihtlmr resulted from I "1 have met both sales and. have
i gone over the case with the utmost
frankness. I shall not ! able t"
Judge until to-monovv whether we
have found a feasible basis for cttlc-ment."
Continuing his efforts at mediation, the
Tokio, Aug. 14. Chinese troops have
attacked the Japanese garrison nt
Cliciw-clilatun, between Mukden and
Chaoyangfu, have killed or wounded
seventeen Jaiwinesc soldiers and killed
one officer, according to official advices
from Cheng-chlatun. The Japanese bar
racks !m now besieged by the Chinese.
the arrest of a Japanese merchant.
ble for any one to enter that estate. At
Wendover. the home of Walter P. Bliss,
and at Upton Pyne, the country plac
of Percy It. Pyne, similar quarantines
have been set up.
Tradesmen are forced to deliver uieir
pedo boat destroyer l.assoo sank Sun-
rl!i- nit th tlilteH t-nMNt huvlliv fttril,k u
sntlthenst tu'n nf t..n mrneriiteri arenrrllnv frt an .mtll ...intilo In.-., uIiav. thn .lirfaf. V erV SUTe alld flrnilv liellev thnt fH l.nd the. unanimity Of the CierinanS,
of Lemberg. Here there occurred a deed olllclal statement Issued this afternoon, and was headed for the Itacc between fanners are entitled to and must receive "The F.mpcror'e eyes brightened and
of bravery comparable to the stunning Six ot the crew of the destroyer are Fishers Island and dull Jsland. higher price for their milk product If he replied thoughtfully:
of Oorltz by the Italians. , missing. Two men on board were In-, Two hours later the men on watch they are to continue In business. A ma- "'That Is the Impression most forc.gn-
A llusslan Infantrv rezltnetit. rlinse 1ii-td. flnnheri hack that the craft hmt .in. icrltv of the furtnern have t-u tirn.iiirinf- .r. set even hostile foreigners. 1 stlti-
name or numeral Is not mentioned by The British press bureau In a state- proached to within Ave miles of Flthers milk at a loss, and are dolns so at the pose for one thing that the contrast be- PPods at the gates, and on several of
the depatches. had advanced to the ment to-night controverts the German ' Island on the south tide and would soon present time, anil they are heartily sick tween the Cermnny depicted by our 1 tie f,tnte the employees arc served
bank of the Klver Tukh, one of the of.'Iclal statement with regard to the be in New London. The signal corps ' and tired of this kind of business, as enemies, the Germany which Is supposed from u general commissary.
smaller rivers tnai cut inroiigu mis local. ly wnere me L.assoo was sunx, , irieu 10 gei imo communica.ion wiin mey nave a riirnt to be, and they will t he restive, war-tiren, nan inniisnru.i .
nd the united, eninusiasuc. miu iiru. ,
rns rnuntrv actually seen must cause rATIOHT TK SHOWER.
ve.irs rnt iie.il or asionisnmcni. i .
me reauisn uron 01 iresniy lurnea uerman vciiiiirauy preieniis. i-v.nv.ii un, . a part or tlie t ine dur nc the irmnn m.K.xe the Ilritlsh tneory tnai i am re- . n..., ;
f.iui. .i in" suie iiisMiii iietu Buna i nr. uii.bii cicunici iwiij-, - --...-. ...v ...... , f .,, ii,, lno nisirniuiers in York futni.lril for tlie war nas gin nuiu uu
..n.... i v.nn. i... ,. L..i,.., .vtnA r.r r.n..a I hut nt fi'i-lak. hefnra .inv nf th. Ktn.ill ..i,.. .. , ... . . ri.
They waited only an Instant while , Sunday, according to a despatch to
their sjfflcers conferred. Then there was lleuter s Telegram Company from
smaller rivers tnai cui inroiigu mis local. ly wnere me L.assoo was suna, ,iriru io gei imo communica.ion wiin mey nave a nunt to be, and they will t
region and are tributaries nf the Seteth. saying that the destroyer was sent to her, but there was no answer to uny of certainly refuse to sell milk at the price an
l'lon the opposite shore they saw the the bottom "a few miles off the Dutch the messages. A fleet of boats loaded they have been selling It for for the last ie
gray of the German held uniforms and coast and not in the Channel, as the j with pilots, reporters and movlo camera i two or three years. th
the reddish brown of freshlv turned German Admiralty tiretends.' men went In search of her. I "A nari nf tii tii,, a..ri.. ...
Afterward he will again take up tin
case with the representatives of the employees.
a submarine off Genoa "ut at a o clock, before any of the small eitv u.i-e navina- ih iim... i.,,. :
" VJ:'V' !T'-.'' "a '". -. rel'l for the milk later In -n was an embarrassing question and ' ,-., ho ,ook Pennsylvania
brt;onVurnT-r;rr,V.. thev T.r.":?n ".ut 3 .??"? ?.T the KmrordM not seem to expect an trttlns ttere CJUght , a ,howeP of r .k
li,l m.i .n, AnV. T.nn ,Vh .V. .,. ,.it 1 - , 1. s ' "'"K. "V1 answer, for he coiiunueu.
rhengchlatun Is near the line of the
Harbin-Changchun railway, which news
despatches stated had been sold to Japan
by Iluss'.a underThc recent Japaneee
Ituskian convention. Chengchlatun Is
I .iliuv In ilie neighborhood of the Suucarl
standstill. Clarence Ledyard Hlalr dldlltiver. japmese rignts on tins river are ,,re.ul,nt wln ,PCt ti,e ralln.nl ni.ui
tne same ai ttiairsaen ana u is unpossi- nam io nar utra " aKerH .,, o'clock to-muruiw moiimtE
t I1C iiirs,iuu unu ltiii ... ni..'"t
the signing of the l'ortnuouth treaty.
The last clash reported between the
Japanese and Chinese was In Amoy, In
southern China. On May 31 there was a
serious rhu In that port resultlni; from
a clash between Chinese and Japanese
police about the same time the Japanese
Minister at Pekln requested the Chinese
Government to take proper steps for the
safeguarding of the lives and Interests
of Japanese residents In Shantung prnv
Inf. Shnrtlv afterward It was atl-
I .....tnr-A.l ... T.i'jtA ,!.., II... t'.(l!tn.k. llnV.
Cummnfera .He.rry From BUat . "l". nVTA re
Near Pennsylvania Station. tallons nf troops to I'ckln and Tientsin.
vvnrit nf rnnimtinil nnH the u-hnV ('onenhacen. The crew wai. saved.
regiment dashed Into the water. Holding' Lloyds announces the sinking of the had not got close enough to her to tell period the consumers In New Voik cltv ,', "un'mlne
ihj ,r ."bor.'.-.. j.n.d r : ''::" "jriw. r-T.u;: i zx : znv j? l i . 1 . cunos how tw. theory seems . 8eVf nlh- ..
iruiui; My ,ncii luac-Hiiic kirn miii- r..m.R ... ...v . .v..... - - mi .ii-.n. in sunir iuHiuure! mere. j0 fn,(0inate my enemies.
O ,11 1 ,,(,!,, Uir Pliuir, I,U1" ' .. . .in..,, nrrtllti IJI.,1 111,- lini fl till.
fclans waded on. with the hullets from
the further bank falling among and
around them.
HUGHES GETS FLAG PROTEST.
almost with-, ,.ir, ,, out nf n eonntrurtlon site
lait liuht at Thirty-second street BtidC(p(i i,,u (U.jret. to It Vr on
4'mupalKn Poster.
.and and Take Wnrki.
Yet the peo- Drill. r bad found an obstinate ledse
...... .... up liBvlni- enllNeil ... i.. .i...i m.t ' . .... . . .. . , . I
i- . . ...... . m . .me wnu iiuu i"1- til ruvi ill inrir u s rv i.nj .. . i-iiff-r..i. Aue. it --.a lirtneM e.i 1.1 .
t me .-.ew i or .avy 1 aril last , inuuiion or in UK snotl it be two ami u , .u. ....a. l... nr.. . ., ... . i ,.,i, . . '..
' . . . . . ..... ... . . .... in, n'ar Hrr i c tuj nujuv -. mi un 'r nitric ui iinu-um piiciih... i i iu hi, ,r ,ii. im,ni' ill ii.iir nil i imi'r- iiiiiiiuiii-i .
Jn rif'aVa Ku".u;t7 rrVbe .nv, ' r:, r .,"r?;rv. viou..y testis , ..m.rtn.M of. tn ,h, ,,., f0P th, :-r ,;.ir, ,,.,;.-,,;; aP;r ,.1,0,,,,.,, nf . -., ,t ....,...,
She was built In 1S01 and was or s.sso navy, vvnicn is now on patrol duty along trlbuters of milk In New York city are """" "
OlitllllUlll Anioillt i: 111 1 rr.
. a result of the dav's il ve.pmenl
there was an nbvlous air of t liiiietn at
the liradiiu.it ters of the rmpli(nes T'ie
railroad managers, who u"iu iKd in se
slon until Ions nftir in.di 'ulit dis
cussing the new turn of .iita.rs w te
hopeful, but mueh less ehreiful nv,r tin
prospect. T'ie Mutation, a- It depends
Upon the tiiatiageis, was de.c 'bed a
sti'l extientrly critical, t'poti t'ie out
come of their conference wit'i tin 1'iesi
dent to-mot row mnrnliig will depend
very largely the breakinu of the appat
eut df.ulloek whi.ii eiis t ich'
Wliat went on behind the donis of the
Green llnoni .a the While House, vvlieie
to-d's eonfeteiii,.s vrre held, was r -
garde,! as a sei ter'tiy hot'i p.i' i - to the
It is known, .iowever.th.it
th bur
tons grots.
Swede Mink V Boat f
Cope.viiaoes (via London). Aug. 14.
The water got up to their chests, o
high that some could scarcely stand and
took to swimming, but the regiment
cm on arm wok uic worn upon me The Daprn, Svhatcr publishes a ru
opposite bank, a series of well eon- mor that a German submarine was sunk
siructed trencnes. . i by a Swedish cruiser between Stock-
Northwest of the Dniester n the nolm at)(1 tlle skarKaard on Thursday
steady push for Hallci, key to lumbers. Ia(t
there occurred at Tustobaby, a Wnall ' . ,
village, a fiercely fought ensagement In . m.n
which the Itusslan Infantry won fresh I BBANDEIS UNABLE TO SERVE.
Rlory. The village was protected by an
elaborate system of trenches, dugouts. , Decline Place on Vesicas. Board
machine gun emplacements and bastions, . . . , ,., .
uch as are found on the western front. . Becanae of Judicial Work.
Prom all these nnlnts nf vutiljim ,r. WioinvnTd..' Ainr. 1 4. Associate Ju.-
Teutons poured a direct and enfilading ! tlce Louis D. Ilnindels of the United
machine gun nre at the advancing ltus-! states Supreme Court has
Hans. The fighting was stubborn, the serve on the Joint commission
despatches say, and for some time the Is-' seek to nrbltratc pending disputes be
History Will Clear Illm.
the coast from Fishers island to the not losing money, but on tho other hand
onnec;icut snore. sine snouiil nave are mak ne nooil nrntlin
hr.ll In ,ll. 'l.tnl,t. n, Vnn. I nnrlnn dO. "I l.n... . u , U A .....! .,!...... I . . .. . ... . n . 1,An .mllnll.d
eri av ' I . .V, u.!T " V..." . . . . I . paur.i ""Ifive feet excavation there came a mass . foelatlon
..r kivav i IUIKC UIM HUH I 111 CrdVP IIHIC". s .
t th exports 1 necehtartly laricr. If the do not envy the man who has the, "JV
Mllltlanan on Border Tell. Illm Mr. Vi.ry was a member of the Glynn ' n"-. ,V, lri, I do not sunnose that "v.'. "?a.r .V"'" C r'? . ;,r 1 " V "
Cwulent3' ,WA'Chn i"n y-my me faultless , II we d seT.. banks vvhlch have appeareil In iiU-ago
(.crow, exiresldent of the Dairymen's .. tt vfW every clvlllxed man In "" f 6i. and. and mnnv nth.r cities to.dav. This Is a
the 6 o'clock salvo Is called. After the t (.-publican candidates fur President den has npp.ueii.ly been sh fted from
I spark there was a quake that brought lind Vice-President was sent to Charles I the railroad impiovecx to t ic r.i lio.nl
j to mind the recent Ulack Tom explosion ; j;. Hughes by Cap'. 12, It. Lewis, past managers, who face the pr ipoMtltm of
d windows rattled and out of the thirty- president of the American Flag Pay As- inciting or rejecting thi protKis.il sub
to-tllgllt. i llilltlil o. vac i ivMiieiu,
The telecram follows- ...
I , .hi " .... -.r. Iiniwlre.l. Of Com- -Tli. A..H..i, Mm, Lay As-n.-Utlon rrr. ..... ... ......
At the niiil'mns session 11 Garret-
Boy Are Well Treated.
Wasiiinoton. Aug, 11. Secretary
League, and Mrs. Heath were members.
........ n..A i h,M in ,li. re- ' .
loa,tPret!l.on"-hvy ' U.lrymen Harmony. i ! K the KS The
Company F of the First' I -a Infantry.- MCD,,W,N, X. v.. Aug. 14,-W. t , W?r ' P" " of '"'U
now at S.-jjj Ilenlto, Tex. Iu It the writer Kittle, secretaty of the Milk Producers' ; .hrouehout In good faith and strove hard , .
Association of Chicago, told the board fcr peace, even though war was Inevi-1 GOMPERS CAIiLED "flUlDAPIlvr,.
,- do you neutrals alwavs talk I senator Hberman Make Bitter Al-
saja :
It Is most unusual that a private of directors of the Dairymen's League, In
Uld take the bertv nf address nir i.. i ,.... .u- . .',,,. lao'e.
declined to r,h0U? ,f,ke,,he lb,er,- ' session here to-day. how the great ml k 'why
, wnkhwlS . K"? '."1- ."' 1 nUll! "0t d Mrlkc In Chicago wan won by the pro- ulIt o
1.. ... VI U "cent ,1,at r,al" newspapers, news- ,,Ucers. The reported split In the Dairy- ' ,
German militarism una never
about Itusslan despotism, the French
'. .. ' ".V.": J" "....:, X.n'"Z. .1" men an" wry few handed ,, UfaKW dld not materlalle at the ,.' ' nM i ,1 r2..llsh treach
tavk on A. I
violation of Government regulations and
son, president of the unlei of lt.iivv.iv
Conductors, aiiid as st'okesinan , iMng
an tioiUent plea, cal.-iilated to te t lie
sympathy of the President tor lienor
working conditions for i.n.wiy en-
p!oees, II,. einiihaslitil tin f.ot that
State statutes, Action will be taken the controversy trmu the pn.nt of v lew
against campaign inanagri's and publlsli-; of the nie'i was not one :nvoiving In-
of 1.. Head.
Aug. 14. President j
Washinhton.
, Samuel Gompers of the American Fed
the White House
"My Dear Mr. Preslden
network and the village, aa well,
Claim llepulse Near Kotel,
,u. -i . . . . ... ... . .. i srv
n inv nuiiiierii nan iu ie I'insK-iiu- i.. .......
mania lln. II,. ... ,. , CU comnill'aiun nouill ucsrni,
Z.r? v.?' i il l T a"out ,K"V"' "Hut upon consultation with the Chief
?lSKn m-H.' n'm V """"l1,"1''' ,"- Justice. I find the state of business of
1 lu slans made Ittle progress. If ny. t. Supreme Court at the present time
hiV. . ' i . .rV"'". ?"?tn ,,mt,to be such that It M my duty not to un-
. 1"i'"4,7",1 , , . w",n:,n dertake th s niportant additional tasK.
rtnort. telecrunhed tnntt u, n uu..u ' : . . ...
W un neep regret.
"Falthfullv yours,
ment In the mobilization camps.
John V. Geiow of Washlngtotiville re- lx jUster balance In apportioning eratlon of Labor was characterized In j,,t,iy Tl-iira)ih my to-day that the
. I 1 ... i,..,.l,l.l nn,l II t
Dear Mr. President ! "I am both a soldier and a newspaper QJ ii lnillton was elected' ' The leicue
I appreciate the opportunity for hUh man and I believe most firmly that tlnllZ t"e output of SO 000 covvs
,ice which membership on the Mexl-1 never have soldiers of any country been conlro,H ue ou"m' of cu"-
I never have soldiers of any country been
i better treated than we have been, that
never before nave men who Joined the
service of their country found their
health and general well being so care
fully looked after.
iiiiuri, leieurapneu irom r-orun, says
that south of Ilrody, Russian attacks
ivere put down with heavy losses, m,d
300 prisoners were taken, Vienna an
nounced that a Ilusilan attack In tU
same locollty failed, tho llusslans leiv
Ir.y many dead.
Stanley Washburn, the London T(ir
correspondent at tho Stokhod front about
Kovel. telegraphs.
"Hoth the Kaiser and Field Marshal
von Hlndenbuig have been at Kirn-l.
vvhlch. according to German prisoners,
"Louis D. Branoeis."
WORRY KILLS ENGINEER.
fries of Wrecked Psuengrri
llanntrd linn I'reed of Blaur.
Tuixno, uhlo, Aug. 14, Iennls ,
i.i ...,. ' I the sTenate to-day ru. a "nubile nuisance
' bv enator Lawrence Y. Sherman of
ABLER MOTOR HIT BY TROLLEY ''!.";'- . 0 more tyraimloa, out.
Wick Committee Reee. i ( rnCOUH injustice than that, of leaders
I Limousine Cut In Two and Dog wno vc ,, RVveat of oilier people's
-i.j . n.,iln... . , brows." said Senator Sherman. "Mr.
creased wages in itii.ii il . '.'ill .iiom Iroin
the d sh e of tlie nu n tn impiove the r
conditions of labor.
This plea cave t.ie liestd.'iit the cue
for Ills discussion of the Mtiia'mti w 111
the r.i 1 1 1 i.i I manage!. To tin -t it .
understood it,, made tin pr"i'osn t i nlHi
a way lie found to give the i u .omcs
the shorter working d.n . .ruluil v if
tie, essai y, ,u compe'is.ill.in fir nh i
opinion Is freely expressed In the local J'"" """""" " 1 ' - w.i
,lll'1 'i, I'll llllllimil O KlSI.H.M' lllf'll
ers If not stopped at once."
GERMAN PLOT IN WHEAT SEEN.
Rir In Prler line i. Conspiracy
With Anirrlean, Snym Paper,
IaiNfiov Aug. 1.1 (Tuesday The
Amiant. Aug. 14. The Wicks com
mittee, which has been Investigating milk
I conditions, has taken a tecess for three
- . - V, T-
"hut as a matter of cold, hard facts. I weeks. It has thus far heard testimony f u 'h tT',ku omol.lfe of F. ' Ad er of I ""J" Vm , trials Senator SI er- I ,"'"""; "" ",- '
hi:, ".'he s,fr.,hnfKmer" ,Ca"",,r "' co"""f"' SS West "nty-slxtl, street New York. I J ) Vec ared "She "Awton wA VXS! nli
JURt the hurt of lives that voune men , . m,i n.reu- Ail tr um h U :V .1.- i,.i.p , 1 n'ii t,llP
lirr" iir-nifcui, ....... ....... mi ail j'riW.i.m'! mr iuso ; i"""i v
130 IN MILITIA LOSE JOBS. VIe n?
SlUlllieu
, wounds.
Tlie c nauneur,
was driving south on Warhurton ave-1 Mm lxoWl ad I'm responsible politically
line behind a souinoouuu iruury cm personally,
when he trleii to cross iae inirci nrur me
Amackassln Inn and steered directly Into
the path of a northbound trolley coming
dalen of il Culver street rescued Joseph ' from the rolls by Postmaster D. A. fl, "'T'' ', ,.. u lie iwo .loirs Jan.
wnaien. a near mule, 12 ears old, from Campbell to-day. This action was taken l""'"' ""
uic nuuso'i mver lo-uay. in coinpilunce vvitn an order received '" "' ' '
I Gomners Is a tuibllc nuisance,
Aug. 14. A trolley ieferrlnr to the Indianapolis and Los
wheat market that the rise in wheat
prices was the result of n conspiracy on
the pint nf German Americans In Chi
cago to for e up prices aiid embarrass
the llntellte Allies
"Tlie rle In wheat I- condemned here
as unnecessary." says the Ihiity Trlr-
and the whole business seems to
meiica
,. . , ...... ...n Th... 'r 1 : ' : . . . . r . specu'amrs nave inatie inn siiuaviou
nitr i),iiii - .1 Using IU1IUS m i,i.w, ,11. in. n .., ....
n.i ...... uiirf.r.,1 seeem Hcnln : . ... .1 . ...i...i....i. 1 "
Post Office Kmploee Dropped1
From noli for llnllatlngr,
Ciiicaoo, Aug. 14. One hundred and
thirty employees of the Chicago Post
Ofllco who are on the Mexican border
with the National Guard were dropped
and suffered severe acalp . d. fence of these criminals.
"I've been nwlnc this to Mr. Gomners.
ulin eMcaned unhurt. )i..,n . 1.1,1 IS,, li',,wll,ii. I, 10 '
...... . - 1 I-UIIIU I till. , ,
orse by engineering
the Ilritlsh wheat market
Just the sort of lives that young men
with red blogd In their veins would like
to lead."
RESCUES DROWNING MUTE.
Vonker .llan Leap From Pier
When Fully Clad.
Yon'Kep.h, N. 1 Aug. 14. James Van-
Leonard, engineer on the Twentieth Cen
tury Limited train, which was wrecked
Von Hlndcnbtirg said must he held to the at Amherst. Ohio, last .March 29. was
List illtfli un,l Ir. )1i. I,.i 1.. 1 ,).'..! In V...I t.t Ills linme to.tl.iv'.
in,,,,, 110 iri-- in. in, ....... ... ... - - ,n, ,Iuu..-, nuri i.,-.iiij. 111 t'OI!ll. inner llll .III niuri iro'liril ..II.- ,M lik.it ,o s,
graphs. "It Is perhaps possible to say Heart dlseane, superinduced by worry, Whalen, who lives at 177 Ashhlirton 1 from the Postmaster-General nt Wash- Mr- H."tl1 M.r',1 A"'.r ' f '
,1,1., Ih. l!.r,nu,.M ...l, I. .1...), V.v ,h.'..n,w .......... ...1.11. .. .1.. ... . u -!.....-.. . I I ... .1.. . . Inlill'S HlHlllUl. llCIl MTS. AUlCr TC-
.'.." " if ,.11,11-lllllK MS "iri no- si, -v.. . i,,, -iiiimk un uiij ,miK)- ui llin I lllglull .111.1 1.11 ) IIH'.vj n Hi nu huiii . . . ,, . nr,u
much importance to lmldlne Kovel , as the cause of death. public tiler, lost his balance. As he made 1 should be dropped. gained coiuiiiousness ner rsi wurns
formerly they attached tt. the hoped for
capture of Verdun. Prisoners' icports
l iillrate that Important wmkH have been
trrcted near the town,
"A Moral Importance,"
"The German preparations to defend
'out of his mind the sl.ht of the wreck
Hire and the cries of tho mangled pas
sengers. Leonard wns ,12 years old, and had
been with tho New York Central thirty-
Kovel have given It a moial importance i "v0
which it would be roily to minimize, hull
I helleva Gen. Hrusilnff Is eapHl). nfj
eolving the problem. Since June ,1 there
have been diverted tn (he German south
western front no fewer than twenty,
three divisions. Ilrusllnfr Is one nf Mi, I
twist agwesslvo GcneraU this war has
He was: absolved from blame In the I no outcry, spectators nt first did not I Postmaster Camnbell said the men 1 were:
Catasit opue, mil nail uerii uii,.ii-c iu rireji irnti.r in- nun 111 un iiiiik, V autlHlcn limpiril iniKUl n I eilisu.iri. iu wirir lor'
"Look after the dogs.'
It Is tlndersMnil that t '' I HI I lot
will. Il was li'galiled h,v llni I'lesili . i
tin liuht of s.vuipathy foi t Ik i iiironn
woikeis, w,i hekl hv the iiiaiin.icis. ,,
be an economic ii.s(.on i" i u ,1 .md
t'.iat It lesoUed ilself ml i ,i 1 1 1 1 .-. 1 1 1 1 ;
Cleat operating expense- win tin r pie.
sented us a shoiter work ng dav or a i
oterle of Kngllsh! '"i" 111 ., .
u- in. in. is' i t ii-.i.-' iri-t-nni IHO
local corner In !, ! , l-n iriiaii.u, inune-
ill. II- I.) .iii.'i ii-.iiiiik lln' ,iji. ir ll'lllre
I they went Into i onfeieiii'i' at t' e r liote'
' .villi 11 I'oiitlllUeil, Willi ,i sh.'ll i icrrtlp-
DRIVE ON BULGARS BEGUN. """ f'"' 'I''""'- ".i.i. .gi.t Amnig
them the lm tor a sitii iei- avp.i
cntly was in. i ti.iM-d upon b" !. ht' t y
of Hie a. i'eiian. e of the l'i. lent i, ,'
In llnlkaii llrTriilr. pos.il or th.. working out ' m i 'e, nnd
I along Hi" lines he MiggeFtiM
I Allied I'nree tu Be l.le.l l.y Serbs,
I tin our I., the Mluullmi,
BELGIANS WITH CZAR'S MEN.
Their ('sella! Company Pralard In
OfflclMl tlnaalan Iteporl,
PKTRiKlkAri, Aug, 14,.
leaped off the pier with his clothes on
and supported Whalen until both were
taken from the water by the local life
saving corps.
mer positions as soon as they nre honor- BRIDEGROOM TURNS BUKULAn,
ably discharged from the army. . .
16,000 VOLT VICTIM DIES.
Maaarhasett Tech Nlndrnt
a Month After the
IlARTmiui, Conn., Aug.
three umpiltatious of his
BOY SCOUTS OF ITALY CALLED
Minister of War Order Them Io
Stole to Get Food, F.any Hay Ilia,
llrl.le Held tinlltlra.
When a-ieslCatiy.:.. a ..lumber f held hy ,1, Hulgarlans,
FLOOD VICTIMS
ri,. ,.) ,t,,) efforts to relieve the effer
produced. Ills statement tome. 'I uhhnr i n.i.i. nci.tinir vinn H.e iiiikhImi. , volts nf eleetrkity received
lulls,' may be taken as characteristic. It',,,, nln eastern front was first made i Francis P, lllll, eldest sou nf Major
i'. pionuiiift lie win give, inniiermiins rur- Unnan hy the ollhiul report of the ltus
thr pinnfB that ho Is tho npial of Von
Jllndenburg."
Major Moiaht, In the TnarbUttt, grave
h reeognUes the ImpurUncu of lln' Kun
ilsn successes. He says In pari:
"It Is quite wrong to treat tho Hui-
ConllNticd on 3Tft(rd Page,
slan war ofllce Inued to-night. In It Is
the following:
"On Sunday, when we raptured Ihe
mall town nf Zboroff, on the Htrlpa, a
llelglau cyclist compuny, which was ue.
lompariled hy Its atmored cars, distin
guished Itself hy assisting our troops
In the capture of the town."
i . I .r. v. : .....I.. i- . .. i..i,i. liean rreuenris a. ion.
M-ed ,u" "" "P". wiin ins w ' "' , Vr ',,ii.. Alter the ex-convlcts Had llnlshed tell- AIn ASKED FOR
(,., ItoME, Aug. 11. The Hoy Heotits nr r ' " V. ' ...in . ..e.rdav to nlead to '"B ",r,r cxirticii. r. v ouuiossioiiei :
. , M. ... ,. in ilriieial besstons ,vesierua io iniuu io h . . d en ir it.
14..Wter I ! v , ': i: , ' ; llmlMiwnl" for imrdary, llif rl,lfriii, ' '' ' , ',, ,, ,,.. hll fei.ntr Bill lra.
left leu In .;,.- lielonulin? to Hie r,rir..iiii.ii,, made a direct appeal to tlie court lor cooperate with them and oetlous Flrr of Penrose.
is of 1.nnn fr Vviee until th ..nenlins .,f ilm.Mrs. Laliy. declaring u ai sue was ; "- .,...,,, .... lna, ,.., poce didn't hound' ,,
his. month r ehools In October. tl.ely gu Itlers and picaueu gumy ,o mc - vv ,
- "
. ... .n.i.i.i i ! 1'iiiirire niinscu.
i nt' riL'iiuin nit- ui ui' iiiiutii miii i v. n ' - ... . . ., . .
It 11111 r.f tlilu fllv .Uutl. l....ii. . n .in. ,l ,'lt 111V W If BO, hliMl, "KU1 Minn
' miii MIMIHJ ' trlM'K, 11" Minn i v lllirrii till n III , , . , . I, I K,. .1 V linl Ivaam
resulted to-day. I1B,. win, the permission of their parent,, i nothing. I K' " '' u ,1.'' '' b!!
With three other sliidentu of tho Mas- will do duly in the war zone, as guards I airled but two weeks when I lo-t in
sachusettH Institute of Technology um 1 nt railroad stations and ileum. The ! el,t " u wl'r't l" K"
nn July 14 was at work on (ho imwerliiass under fifteen years will be enrolled
plant of the Bristol Tramwuy Coinimny i In th)v tcrrltorllll service. Thev will be
when ho came Iu contact with a trans. 1 stationed at hospitals, mobilization ,-en-
mlsslon cabin running acroM the root of I ires, munition factories, aeroplane sta-
the power station.
tlona and hangars.
food.'
On the appeal which wan supported by
lUsliiii Attorney Hdeksou, Mrs. Kaiiy
was illschurged. Ranjr waa riwanded
ouc week for behtenci.
CLUB DINNER FOR EX-CONVICTS.
,, i IiNpov. Aug. 14. Aitlllery prepara-'
Former Sing; Sing Men Tell Their ,, fl,r ., iiUm1 ,,flen ve Iu the
i:nierlence Io Wood. i Balkans along a sixty mile front Is going ,
. . . , 1 on from Monastlr to the Vardar Valley, T.t" un. ileiliiiie ih.inge mi. ii i.i
Forty former '",.1 .,,.!. t Already the Anglo-French force under Hon during t lav was n,. ,,,,,
League of Sing Slug were tlie guest at . si.rri.ll lu.s .ome to t-rlns ultl. il.e wulnlravval bv Hie i.nlivav e ! ......a . r
i dinner last mttht or I ror. I.. Ntngg ulKII,an(( ,n, )lot site-lit. which Is rap-. their hitherto uuciimpromUi .- n lusal
lUhltin of oltmibla LnlverslO at the (,iV developing mound IMlran. I submit their demand to .,rl,t an it,
! Faculty t lilb. 1 he ex-convicts old how- T,)p t)IM, .ri)1)IHi ,u.,nni. rmf. f uudetstooil tti.it the c.m.vssi. i, n,,.,
,hard It wan to come out of pr son and tho S),r,,,, ttiops, have taken several jiait ' -llnht The.v n a ni,, . Um- i.
keep suaiKiii. ,n ...... ..m,, ... fortttl.l vllliges near liolian and nil- eight hour day and pa ment of i near.,
Whltlll. who Is professor of penology, nl(.rouH ttnunde, ptisoneis. Heavy guns a half for men. me ciis-itut. h an In
tne aiinums raiu " ' are concentiatlng their lire upon Po ran sepaia'.de proposltinu. but ,t u ,,.
.l..u.. I,'. .,..).. Wur.l... I-Virmifla ,lll .......... I .....
Mod tnete is a posuiiuy n nieir ag or
In.' in arbilratlon on the ot'icr . is f
the eight hour da s .Kiepteil in pun
. iple.
The niodltieallon lite t,iiro.u man
i agers have brill asked to lli.ll.e ,ili l n
I itiiderstooil, pi oiot iln, i. iii I., iii i. Ii i.r.it
er Whether the.v will leld to thn
tent suggested bv the I'leslileut s tn he,
i iie'eini'ncd at to-mni low h .-oi Ii i n 'i
How th coneessiois, win. i n . - .r.i
Involve millions oi inniars .r nuai'.v eau
be brought tn meet tin' ilei iands of ip,.
etnplo.Vees fur belief VMirklu .iiliil Mo S
Is ihe problem In be sohul
The most obvious solut i ,i Mie u
iillon stands lo-i igat. ! ""ill a 1.0.1 . I
of arbitration. It th' ue a ' a 111 I"
worked out dticctlv bcivv.vn n pa iu
Snmnier Hotel
Bnrnrd,
SlinuvvsnrrtT, Mass., Aug. 14. The
l'2dgemerr Hotel, on the south shore of
Lake qulnslgamnnd, was bnrnrd to
night. All the guests escaped unhurt,
although the explosion of a kerosene
tank caused much excitement. The loss
Ii placed at $16,000,
Senator dit.
hill tn appro
priate I'JOfl.OOil for lellef nf victims p,
the recent th" nl In West Virginia, It
was referred to the Appropriations Com
lltlttee. Senator Penrose of Penusj Ivanla
suggested facetiously that an amend
ment he added tu appiopilate l.'on.fioo
tor iilieliiifii, which "suffered from a
recent thunderstorm."
