W -'- ---f - TFlNANCIAL EDITION ' ' . ' 'TOWWI!'!,P
Hfe . !! I - - "A
I- NIGHT iFlf11tt1tlt iiaai 41 1 ImI It M
I EXTRA IWU-V-HWIM 3g9BK39 fJXXxlXKK
m f. , .f,
f VOli. n-NO, 28T . PHILADELPHIA TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 101(1. cor.ont. , t. grow id.m omw C PBIOE ONE CEKT
NAVAL "ROOKIES" LEAVE LEAGUE ISLAND ON TRAINING CRUISE
RUSSIANS' THRUST
GAINS; FOE'S LINES
AGAIN SMASHED
IfBrussiloff's Armies Force
Crossing of Zlota Lipa
and Bistritza
Sdvance TWELVE MILES
RAustro-Gcrman Resistance Stiff
, ens, but Fails to Halt In
vaders' Drive
Tim Russian drive has pierced the
ftf Austro-German line on the Zlota
li.lna River at a new point, the Pctro-
IrBrad War Ofiico announced this after-
;'",noon.
Three Slav armies are closing: in on
h ' General von Bothmcr in the eastern
,' theater of war. Ho is in retreat, as to
offer fieht would only multiply his uif-
l) Acuities. Apparently the purposo of
, tho Russian strategists is tq cue in ue-
IhindGeneral Bothmer in order to pre
sent his escape.
"Fighting on the long front from
Pinsk to the Rumanian border is grow
ing fiercer than ever, as in some sec
tors the German and Austrian resist
ance has tightened.
? All along the front, but especially
in the northern sectors, has gone the
Jvord of Field Marshal voii Hindenburg,
tho word of the French at Verdun,
!'They shall not pass."
. Paris reports brilliant grenade at
tacks on tho northeastern front of Vcr
'dun last night resulted in tho capture
of German trenches on a 300-yard front
to a depth of 100 yards. German
counter-attacks in this region were im
mediately checked.
French artillery was very active qn
the Sommo front last night, but no im
portant infantry engagements occurred.
Gorman counter-attacks have suc
ceeded Allied thrusts in Picardy.
Tho Germans have resumed tho
bombardment of Rheims. Tho activity
of patrols in this sector and tho liom-
'bardment suggest that tho Germans
may have determined to attack in the
Rheims sector.
The Italians have captured Btrongly.
neia Austrian mtrenchments east or
Gorizia, where heavy fighting is still
to progress.
KEW TEUTON LINE ON ZLOTA
?HPA PIEHCED BY FRESH SLAV
1TIIRUST AGAINST VON B0TH3IER
W'PETIlOrmArv inir IK Th Tli1-jil.TTia
ljav pierced the new Austro-German line
on ne Zlota r,Ipa River nt a new point,
pavlne crossed tp the west bank of the
let '" l3mlle advanco from the Upper
Igflpa. it was olllclally announced today.
m, Other Ityaslan forces have crossed to the
KWMtern bank of the Zlota Bistritza. south.
l!Mt of Stanlslau.
R.AS the Austro-German lines In Gallcla
IMe. shortened by retirements, tho Russians
Mve begun to meet with mora formidable
Igtlitance, but dlspatche3 from the front
Biliita. """" "
HThe Russian farce that nnntllrrl Thnrnw.
R? il19 Strip- River, Is now moving on
lWchow on the railway which Joins the
f 1I Lemberg line. Alonar the Zlota Llpa
It1? Russians are successfully attacking the
gHv-iungarian positions on the hills.
EfaerO has bean nrt IVInflrnlaMnn nf th
IJJJKirt of (he papture of JIalicz on the
ti .vfr' but many military critics believe
;"' K"' ,a already in Russian hands.
k!lfla jtll.lMUuH t f- -a a I
,;, ""mu-ijuujinnaii urmies ui uenerai
w-Jifnter, General von Bothmer and Gen-
Continued on Fate Two, Cplumn Two
TOE WEATIJER
For PhilnJeinhtn n,j .;.:.,:t..
pdftu. . "j-"::rrr,J.r.,r ..."-
wsiriifj i uuuv anu oiigmn warmer ro
WnSi!' lllou by showers Wednesday;
l"3ht, variable winds.
T WflTlf Skut -r t-mr
lS US' - S.U5 2- rU... 7-Jtav.m.
?T' -" " . wuvu auuiu AMAH.UU
BELUYAKK BlVEIt TIOK CIIAKOE3,
EoVjT?,Ur 551 m- Hlea watr. . 8J4D.m.
tf watst 9 53 am. Low water. .1024 p.m.
TKUPEBATPBE AT EACH UOVB.
J4 1- n if 'at at" i(
Qf 7til 781 7ol 78 1 781 I
i : i t - rldSi- ' ' -".4
HIBERNIAN SPLIT
FOLLOWS CHARGE
MADE BY PRIEST
State Convention at Potts-
. ville Astir Over McDer-
mott Exposure
QUICK ACTION FORECAST
Salient Points of A. O. H.
. Controversy on McDcrmott
CONVENTION of A. 0. H. in
Pottsville divided in two factions
becnuse of Father McDcrmott'3
charges. , ,
One faction favors ignoring tho
priest; the other favors adoption of
resolutions asking that ho bo un
frocked. "The worst is yet to come, says
Father McDcrmott, "and I am ready
Cor anything that comes."
Lino of march of Hibernian pa
rade is three blocks from jail in
which Mollic Maguircs were pun
ished. "In my objections," say3 Father
McDcrmott, "I did not .specify any
distance; they march only a few
steps from the jail."
Official solemn high mass, which
raised the differences between
Father McDcrmott and the Arch
bishop, to bo celebrated tomorrow
morning at 10 o'clock.
By a Staff Correspondent
POTTSVILLE, Ta., Aug. 15. The bitter
attack made upon tho Ancient Order of
Hibernians by tho Rev. Daniel I. JIcDer
mott, pastor of St. Mary's Roman Catholic
Church, Philadelphia, has split tho State
convention of tho order Into two factions.
When the convention opened In the Hippo
drome, at 11 o'clock this morning, the dele
gates had divided Into two camps. Conser
vative leaders In the organization. Including
a score of State nnd county officials of the
order, rallied a considerable following to
tho belief that Father McDermott'a-attacks
should be Ignored by the convention.
Tho other faction, which appears to be
In the majority, has drafted a resolution
which it Is planned to have presented at
tho business session of the convention to
morrow. The resolution calls upon Arch
bishop Prendergast to unfrock Father Mc
Dermott. The sentiment of the Philadelphia delega-
Contlnued on rate Two. Column Vour
ITALIAN WARSHIP
BLOWN UP; "300 OF
HER CREW PERISH
Dreadnought Leonardo da
Vinci Wrecked in Tar-
anto Harbor
FLOODING TRIED VAINLY
PARIS, Aug. 15. The Italian dread
nought Leonardo da Vinci has been blown
up in Taranto harbor. Italy, with the loss
of 800 of her crew, according to an unof
ficial dispatch received here today.
The explosion followed the outbreak of
fire on board. Flames were discovered In
the ship's galley and spread with great
rapidity.
The crew undertook to flood the mag
azine and beacii the dreadnought, but the
explosion occurred before shallow water
could bo reached.
A big hole was torn In the warship's hull
and she rolled over on her b.eam end,
throwing many of the sailors Into the water,
where large numbers were drowned before
they could be rescued.
It Is. believed the Bhlp can be refloated
after repairs are made. '
The Leonardo, da Vlncl displaced 32,340
tons apd, hes armament consisted of thir
teen 12-lnch guns, nine Jn three turrets on
the center line and four In pairs In tur
rets flrliyf over Jho end of trlpleturrets ;
eighteen 4.T-lnch guns In batteries ; eighteen
j.jnch guns and three 18.lnch torpedo tubes.
The warship was. launched In X 9 11 and
,,,i in commission in 1913. The two
sistr ships of' the Leonardo da Vinci's,
class are tha Conte u cavour ana muuo
Ccsare,
Photo by Ledger Thoto l'nrol.
The volunteers" who boarded the battleship Ihodo Island this afternoon
presented themselves to the public earlier in the day in a march down
Broad street from Callowhill. The detail shows a typical farewell
scene on the dock at the Navy Yard.
MAYOR PLEDGES
ACTS, NOT WORDS,
ON VICE PROBLEM
Through Talking and Will
Buckle Down to the Job,
He Says
SILENT ON ROBINSON
Mayor Smith today held fast to his em
phatically announced declaration that
henceforth he weould acquaint tho publla
only with results obtained In the vice situa
tion, not with plans to mako those results.
The Mayor reiterated that position In nn
Interview today, but would say nothing elso
His intentions with regard to Superin
tendent of Police Robinson whether he
shall go or stay aro still known, appar
ently, to the Mayor alone. So with all other
things he plans. He merely promised today
that the public would be satisfied with what
ho did, and let It go at that.
He was asked today It he Intended to
follow his order taking the police out of
political clubs with a similar one to other
city employes.
NO USE OF TALKING.
"I am considering those things and I
mean to act from time to time, but just
now I have nothing to say on departmental
matters," he answered. "Talking will do
no good. I mean to act, and when action
Is taken you newspaper boys will be told
of my actions, not my plans. I did not
take the sltp with regard to the police
without careful thought, and my future
plans must develop before I will talk for
publication on the question of city employes
In politics or on the vice question. Because
1 have nothing to say today does not mean
that I am not at work."
Regarding the published statement that
he had not resigned from the Thomas B.
Smith Republican Club 'of the Twenty
eighth Ward, he said:
"FOOLISH," HB.CALLS SKEPTICS.
"That story Is foolish. I am not accus
tomed to make assertions that are not cor
rect. There Is no reason why Buch a yarn
should get an answer, and It certainly will
not from me. I am done talking about
departmental matters with relation to pol
itical conditions. When ready I mean to
act, and then you will see that I am work
ing and not talking. Not a thing to any
newspaper on departmental matters until
I decide the time Is right to make my views
public. Now Is not the time to talk. This
goes for aU newspapers."
Part of the publics Is Inclined to be
lieve that after o. gTeat deal of ado the vice
situation will be allowed lo settle rather
than bo solved, and in the end the Investi
gation will come to nothing.
Mayor Smith will say nothing about this.
He insists the public Isn't interested any
more in his conversation as to plans ; only
Coattaeed on Fate Tbite, Column Tore
WILL USE SERUI
IN PLAN TO HALT
BABY PARALYSIS
Many. Offer Blood -in New
Move to Check 'Dis
ease Spread
QUARANTINES TIGHTENED
Infantile Paralysis Record
of Day Here and Elsewhere
New cases in Philadelphia...
Total cases in Philadelphia...
Deaths in Philadelphia
Total deaths in Philadelphia.
3
199
4
53
New cases in New York 100
Total cases in New York C532
Deaths in New York 39
Total deaths in New York.... 1-1C3
New cases in Now Jersey 53
New cases in Pennsylvania. ... 8
Weather forecast for Philadelphia
and eastern Pennsylvania Slightly
warmer tonight. For Nexo Jersey
Partly cloudy tonight; showers Wednes
day. Dlood serum obtained from adults Is
to ba used n Philadelphia to help check
infantile paralysis.
Pr. A. A. Cairns, chief of the medical
inspectors, today announced that a special
building had been set aside on the grounds
of tho Philadelphia Hospital for Contagious
Diseases, Second and Luzerne streets, and
that already a number of persons had giv
en their blqod to be used for serum purposes,-
Dr. C. Y. White, chief of the Philadelphia
Bacteriological Department:-has been placed
In charge of the serum station and sur
geons have, brought forward persons who
were willing to give some of their blood
that the ch(ldren might be saved.
Only persons who have had infantile
paralysis will be allowed to make, the sac
rifice. The blood will bo allowed to stand
for H hours until the serum separates and
then the latter will be administered In the
hip or shoulder blade In amounts, of three
ounce or more.
SEES DANGER IN SCHEME
Doctor Cairns believes the treatment will
be effective and declares that it has so
proved in New York, butDr. Samuel G.
Dixon, State Commissioner of Health, is
not so enthusiastic
"That has been done for some time."
bald the latter, "but It Is possible that such
transfusion will result In worse diseases
than Infantile paralysis, for human blood
Is not an Ideal aid to the prevention of
diseased.
"That of the lower animals, not subjected
so extensively to the various and com
plicated diseases jf the human, should be
used, U any; and at the State laboratory.
Coathuud vu Vac e Ttreo, Column Qua
QUICK
r
RAILROAD EMPLOYES
WASHINGTON, Aug. 15. President Wilson and tho representa
tives of tho railway brotherhoods went Into conferenco lu the Wlilto
House at 2:513 this afternoon lo discuss propositions suggested to the
President by tho committee of railway manager at tho morning con-forcnce4
BERLIN SAYS U-BOAT BREMEN IS SAFE
LONDON, Aug. 15. Tho following dispatch from Berlin dated
August i4 was received today by the International News Service:
"Tho submarine merchant ship Bremen is perfectly safe, but at this
moment she is a considerable distanco from New York."
REPORT BTJRIAN HAS1 QUIT AUSTRIAN CABINET
LONDON, Aug. 15. A Central News dispatch from Vienna re
ports that Baron Burian lias resigned as Austrian Foreign Minister
and that be will be succeeded by Count Andrassy.
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
Firtt race, 2-year-olds, selling, ?500 added, 5 1-2 furlongs
Gloomy Gu3, 100, Lykc, 4 to 1, 7 to 5, 1 to 2, won; Passing Pancy,
117, Murphy, 0 to 1. 2 to 1, oven, secondj Yellow Stone, 110, Byrne,
7 to 5, 1 to 2, 1 to 5, third. Time, 1.14. . .
!
GERMANS TO PUNISH BRITAIN FOR BARALONG CASE
I1ERLIN, Aug. 15. German Zeppelins will punish England for hbr failure to
punish tho crew of tho British steamship Baralong, who killed members of n Ger
man submarine crew, it wan olllclally announced horo todny. In the futuro Zeppe
lins raiding Enntlsli towns will huvo no consideration for .tho lives of civilians'.
(Tho British steamship Baruionu rnmtned nnd sank a German submarine, and
It was afterward charged by tho Germans
to iath. by tho British seamen .whllo -struggling In tho water.)- '' " '"-
PHILADELPHIA CONGRESSMEN ALL ON JOB TODAY
WASHINGTON, Aujr. in. For the llrst time In many weeks tho seven Phila
delphia Congressmen are in Washington today. They came here to vote on the
conference report on tho naval bill, Representatives John It. K. Scott nnd Peter E.
Costello arriving shortly after noon.
AGENCY CUTS OIL PRICE 5 CENTS A BARREL
PITTSUUItGH, Aujr, 15. Tho Joseph Seep Purchasing Agency today announced
a reduction of C cents a barrel In all grades of Pennsylvania crudo oil except Rag-land.
MOVEMENT OF MILITIA TO BORDER SUSPENDED
WASHINGTON, Aug. 15. Hecause of tho threatened railroad strike the War
Department today suspended Indefinitely tho proposed movement to tho border of
between 25,000 and 35,000 mobilized militia In Stato camps nnd last week ordered
to tho Mexican line.
CHINESE WHO ATTACK JAPANESE BEATEN OFF
TOKIO, Aug. 15. Japanese troops sent to tho rescue of a small force besieged
by Chinese soldiers nt Chengchlntun were attacked by the Chinese in a defile Sun
day, according to reports to the War Otllco, but beat off their assailants nnd con
tinued their advance. More than fifty Chinese soldiers nre reported killed, but the
Japanese loss was very small. Prisoners taken by tho Japanese said orders for tho
attack upon tho Japaneso came from Pekln.
GIRL, SHOT ON FOURTH OF JULY, DIES
The second death resulting from the celebration of the Fourth of July was
reported today. Tho latest victim Is Mabel Henry, 5 years, a negress, of 285 Maple
avenue, Ambler. Pa., who died In St. Luke's Hospital today from a bullet wound in
the head. The child was sitting in frcnt of her home when she was Injured by a
stray shot. Sho was removed to the hospital, but her critical condition prevented
physicians performing an operation to remove the bullet, which had entered the
brain.
STEAMSHIP SAILS TODAY WITH 1200 ARMY HORSES
The British steamship Georglc will sail from Pier 65 latd this afternoon carry
ing 1200 horses for the British nrmy. This Is the largest shipment of horses that
has been made from Philadelphia since the war began. All of them are said to
be fine animals, each valued at about ?300, They are to be delivered at the French
port of Brest, Accompanying this shipment of horses are 60 hostlers and a vet
erinary surgeon. The Georglc is In command of Captain Symons.
BULGARS AND TURKS MAY SEEK SEPARATE PEACE
HOME, Aug. 15. Bulgarlun nnd Turkish diplomats have arrived In Benin and
are In touch with diplomatic agents of tho Allies with a view to the negotiation of
separate peace, says a Heme dispatch to the Idea Nazlonale today. Austrian agents
are said to bo watching the Turks and Bulgarians very closely.
ATHENS, Aug, 15. A report Is current here that a Turkish personage sojourn
ing at Geneva is authorized to negotiate a separate peace, provided Turkey Is to
retain Constantinople and the Dardanelles and possession 'is safeguarded by the
Entento Powers. Tho Allle3, It is reported, declined to entertain the Turkish
proposals.
ALLEGED CONFIDENCE MAN, WANTED HERE, BREAKS JAIL
"Curley" Carter, alleged confidence man, arrested last Wednesday In Bait Lake
CJty Utah, and held for Philadelphia and Pittsburgh officers, mado his escape
from the Salt Lake City Jail, aided by a woman accomplice known to the police
as Mrs. Barry. Carter was to have appeared In court today -op habeas corpus
proceedings instituted by his lawyer to balk return East.
U. S. SEEKS ROCKAWAY LAND FOR $5,000,000 FORTS
WASHINGTON, Aug. 15. The War Department has taken steps tp acquire
land at Uockaway Beach for fortifications to cost ab.out J5.000.000, An appropria
tion authorizes thesa forts. Secretary Baker has referred to Judge Advocate Gen
eral Crowder the question of whether the Government holds title to any land at
Bockaway available for fortifications.
RECRUITING OFFICE OPENED OUTSIDE OF UNION LEAGUE
Enlistments for the First Brigade of the Pennsylvania Troops are now being:
taken in front of the Union League. Major Charles H. Hendler la receiving the
applicants. Soma 100 odd have been accepted already and are en rpute to Mt. Gretna,
where they will be made fit before being sent to the Mxlcan border. The recrultinir
station was made possible through the courtesy of several Union League members,
particularly Colonel John Grlbbel. president, The Union league members provided
the tent, rug and other furnishings.
NEWS
AGAIN SEE WILSON
that helpless German Bailors woro shot
NIGHT
EXTRA
ROADS WILLING
TO PARLEY ON
8-H0UR BASIS
Managers Accept Principle,
but Would Argue Over
Its Application
WILSON SENDS FOR MEN"
ELISHA LEE
Chairman of the railroad mana
gers' committee in tho present
wage controversy which tho Presi
dent is trying to settle.
By ROBERT J. BENDER
WASHINGT6N, Aug. IB. The burden of
concessions to avert the threatened rail
road strike nppearcd to have swum; from
tho rallronds to the employes today.
At the conclusion of the conferenco with
the manngcr.i, which began at 8:55 today,
President Wilson authorized publication of
tho following statement:
The I'rratdrnt npent an hour and
half till mornlriB with the representa
tive of the railway managers. After
the conference lie said that It wan Im
possible as yet to report on the results!
nil that lie could say was that a very
cundlit nnd honest discussion was in
progress about the practicable, basis of
settlement;
f . After thq ralJroadmpEers.,liad,fheek,lV'
the White IIouso for more than nn hour
and A half It was learned they had agreed
to accept the, basic principle of the eight
hour day. But they demand that the ques
tion of overtime pay bo subjected to .
bigger and more far-reaching Investigation.
According to one of trm railroad men who)
attended tho conference, tho following,
briefly, is their position:
1Vi accept the principle of the eight
hour day. However, the -eight-hour
day question is so obviously and nat
urally a part of the overtime quosilan
tliut the two will have to be handled as
one problem.
The conference of tho managers ended at
10:40. They would make no comment upon
leaving. It was announced' that-the Presi
dent would see the employes at 3 o'clock this
afternoon. The Investigation of the applica
tion of the shorter day principle to railway
operations, as presented to the President,
wculd be made by a board appointed by the
President, It Is understood.
WANT THOROUGH INQUIRY;
In accepting the basic principled of the
eight-hour day the railroads go on the be
lief that neither the President nor the
employes would expect the' eight-hour day
to be put into effect until the whole sub
ject has been inquired into and a working
program finally constructed.
In some respects it might be regarded aa
a Btep forward In the negotiations. The
employes are not favorable to an out-and-out
eight-hour day, their work to efyd at
the conclusion of that period. The question
of whether they would yield on. tho point
of delaying actual application of the new
program until It has been subjected ta
thorough Investigation remains to be seen,
MANAGERS ATTITUDE,
The railroads countered with the sue
gestlon outlined after working most of the
night. At times, It Is said, there was strong
feeling among some of the managers that
the -President had attempted to place the
burden of concession upon them. He had,
It is 'understood, told them In conference
yesterday that the eight-hour principle was.
the one upon which they should try to work,
and suggested they attempt to formulate
the groundwork of a settlement on that
basis.
Those close to the managers said lnvestU
gatlon might reveal the fact that roalroa
systems might be operated pn a nine-hour
basis, or perhaps ten, and that, at any rate,
the BubJecUwas one for thorough inveatlga
licn and not arbitration.
MEN MAY NOT YIELD.
Doubt was expressed by those watching
the prdgress of the conferences that the
brotherhoods would consent t, any pro.
Ignged delay In disposing of the tune-and-a
half question. They have Insisted that only
by the time-and-a-half clausa ct.fi tbey en
force the elg'htfbp-u.r day that n railroad
ing any eight-hour, day would be inoperative
Without aUipalty
However., Jfl thmaager are tp wato
their own coajint repositions, it U at
certain the emiUoyesrwm pbjec o th jsjaft
proposed, since TtC49tefn, mmi b( th tw
questions which thebiiha&litl4 auii
be dUpqsed of wlbi'vuTv'CiajplIeatWiii Wua4.
At the same tlw though. It k)uda ti
idea, of ah outside JnveiUsatlon, Rfula
which they have set hJiRslvM.
A. B. Oarretsoo. spokesman tot th a
pluyes, smiled, a. bit wbsn told of th tmmr
&ger' proposal, but rfiw4 to- duK"di
wfcsthNr or net t sUtteto'.
2fti
