WEATHFR
?_KTiT rioi Dl tO-Al IM *i
J,.BBO?. IKOIUMM RAIT4 \ *a
,1, llll A *' \KMKK TO MllllKOW.
MODKIIATK. .A?I.UW_*_ *.IM?s.
Full report on r?B* It.
Ertlmne
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net PaicL Non-Returnable
Ffrsf to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials ? Advertisements
Vou
IAW1 No. 25.475.
KopTTiflhi lBia?
The Tribune \?a n..
TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1016.
e e e
OXE CENT
ln Kew York C l?r. Newark,
Jersey City ?n_ llo__k-_.
Wilson Wins Unions; Peaee Is Nearer
RUSSIANS BAG !
75,000 TROOPS
LONDON HEARS
Cut Bothmer's Army
jnHalfon Strypa,
Report Says.
HALICZ WITHIN
RANGE OF GUNS
Letchitskys Forces Cross
Zlota Lipa and
Forge On.
?rt, Table _> Th* _*i-tr_n*-'
London. Aug. 14,-Von Bothmer is
continuir.f. Ul flight over the whole
front from the Sereth River to the
Dniester. The armies of Generals
Sakhar.tT. Letchitsky and Cherbat
cheff are drawinf closer to the re
treatir.g Austrians every hour. Al
mdv tr..v have struck at the Aus?
trian flanks along the railroad to
Potatory and apparently have cut
deepiv Into the enemy's forces.
To-dav the Russians swept for?
ward across the Zlota I.ipa at several
points, making it a perilous position
for the Austrians to atterrrpt io hold,
and pressed southwest from the
Sereth d: striet and northwest from
ihe Star.i.-'.au region. Halir-z is now
within rar.ge of the heavy Russian
P_ns, and a bombardment of the
southern f-ateway to Lemberg is ex?
pected within a few houra.
M____UJ ttitXcM here are already
dixcussing the po_?ibility of another
Sedan. It is firmly. believed that
neither von Bothmer nor Pflanzer
can escape from the Russians with
their armies intact, and some ob?
servers foresee the capture or de
struction of the main part of both
forces.
Sar Bothmer Lost 75.000.
Reports reached London to-day from
.1 sources that von Bothmer bad
already loat half of his army of 150.008
by the BWift flank advances of the Rus?
sians immediately after the Strypa line
was abandoned.
This report receive* partial contirma?
tion in the Bummary of the prisonera
taken by the Czar's troops published
to-day la the "Rech" of I'etrograd.
This new. paper estimated that during
hat week's operations in Galicia W.200
men and 1,720 officers were bagged by
the Russians. The estimated booty of
the week is also enormous 342 ma?
chine guns having been swept into the
IB ranks, according to the "Rech."
According to Russian military opin?
ion. UtchiUky'a Baaaaaiag dt-fept of
Pfianzer's army at Stanislau and Nad
vorna made von Bothmer's position
hopeless. The latter is believed to have
delayed his retirement from thc Strypa
Haa for so long becausfl hc depended
tpun Pflanzer to protect his southern
flank along the Dniester.
The river itself was considered an
effective barrier to Russian advance
from the south and east. Rut Pflan
ler'. army, aplit in two by Letrhitsky's
-., powerful thrust at Stanislau,
was weakened so that it _xpo..ed the
Dniester hne and von Bothmer's right
wing to attack.- from the strong forces
of the Russian general.
*.. edge Menaces Teutons.
The latgBI part of J'flanzer's army
fled toward Halita to afford von Both
Mf whal Brottetioa it eould. The rest
of the diaorganiied Austrian force re
treated toward Nadroma to guard the
gates oi
But . ina followed up their
v that thc Aus
quukly unven out of Nad
vorna aml W**\ to Bystritza. And
.then, Bioving ear-t. BOOtheaal and
northeest en Halitz, the Russians
hemmt-n la P___B*M*r_l forces nt that
POint and diove such * deep wedge into
his Bflrl that they opened up
the way for flank and rear assaults on
von Bothmer's army.
The Russians now have straightened
out their lines in front of Hallea and
ire elflfliag in on the city rapidly, It
*?s the fail ol Hallea to BraMUO-Pfl
??-.. ... _._._. .. . :_-_* ... __,_h_i ,__.,
Official Communications
on East Front Fighting
Pctro'jrud, Au?. U.? The official
ttatcment wxued thi* evcninij says:
ln the region of the River Sereth we
?re adraceiBf .ucccssfully. One of
?ur rallaat refiaiaBta, aft-r fording
th" Bhtr Tukh.. _. tributary of the
yath, in water up to their chests.
drove out tha . t.cm\ from a series of
Uflacbflfl,
Tv . ' ?'*??**? ? .ntnin
____._*' or"' "f our : ,v ;n'r
_n.k ' h' ' ended
JjUi an cfficei Bnd Lieutenant
?____',? ' ' "Bountad
ft a machine gun, and, ovi-i taking thc
nemy aeropla,,,., afl.i.ked it. uring
SS W'th the machino gun. The
,B. a?ropl?ne waa damaged and
t. coiu?i_ 1
Russia's New Prospects
Shadcd portion shows ground over which the Austro-German centre ifl
retreating toward the Zlota Lipa. Heavy black line shows present
Russian front.
By FRANK H. SIMONDS.
The simplest and the clearet-t fashion in which to explain the latest
developments on the Eastern front ifl to recall the entirely parallel course
of the preat German campaign last year, which began at the Dunajec and
ended at the Beresina. By examinim* the efforts of the Russians in 1915,
by analyzing what they tried to do and failed to do, we can now see what
the Austrians and Germans have been trying to do, and, now that they
have evacuated the Strypa line, have failed to do in their turn. In a word,
what we are now seeing is final failure of the Germans to save any part
of their first line, just as a year ago we saw the similar failure of tho
Russians to preserve a portion of their Eastern front, after the Battle cf
the Dunajec.
Exactly as the Russians pierced the Austro-German.front at Lutsk
and at Czernowitz, the Germans a year ago pierced Dmitrieff's line on
the Dunajec. Exactly as the Russians attempted to reform their lin-*3
behind the broken portion, that is, behind the Dunajec at the San, while
holding their general (arpathian front, the Austrians and Germans ha/e
failed to reform their lines in Southern Galicia while retaining their gen?
eral position along the Strypa.
By July of last year it was clear that the whole Russian front from
tbe Baltic to the Carpathians had been compromised by the German vic?
tory at the Dunajec. To take a figure, a man suddenly receiving a vigor
ous shove will frequently stagger for several seconds, striving to recovcr
his balance. But if he fails h*e will fall as a result of the shove, which
may have hit him at his shoulder or his hip. We have now passed from
C'ontiniird on p.iae 3. roluinn 4
MY CONSCIENCE CLEAR,'
THE KAISER DECLARES
History Will Not Blame Him for
the War, He Believes.
[Ky Cat.le Ui Tli- Trll in- ]
London, Aug. 15. "I do not *envy thfl
man who has the responsibility for th's
war upon his conscience. I, at least, am
not that man."
So the Kaiser is quoted by an "emi
r.ent neutral," whose account of an
hudience with the Kmperor at Berlin
ia printed in "The London Daily News."
The Kaiser is reported to have con
tinued:
"I think history will clear me of that
charge, although I do not suppose his?
tory will hold me faultless. ln a sense
.very civilued man in Kurope must
'ave a share in the responsibility for
this war. and the higher his position
the larger his responsibility. I admit
that, and v.t I claim 1 aoted througn
out ifl good faith and fti"v< hard l?r
peace, even when war was inevitable
"Why do you neutralls always talk
about "German militarism and never
about Kussian despotism, French crav
ing for rcvenge and Knghsh treachery .
I th.nk the next generation will stnke
a uister balance in apportionmg the
blame."
BABY HANGs" HIMSELF
BY STRING OF HIS BIB
Mother Finds Body Swinging
from Arm of High Chair.
Hanging by the string of his bib
from an arm of his high chair. s:x
months-old Kobcrt Porttr, of 1015 Lin?
coln Avenue, Hrooklyn. wa* found by
his mother late yesterday afternoon.
The young mother had stepped ou:
of the dining room for a few minutes (
and the child had twisted out of BIJ
chair and fallen. catching his neck
in the string of his bib. He was ap?
parently lllfllflfll Dr. Matthews, of
Bt, Mary's Hospital. was called. Bfl
said the child'* neck was broken and
that it probably ha* bten killed iri
.stantly. __
WORKED TWO HOURS
AND LOST HIS LIFE
?levator Operator Killed While
Practising for New Place.
A young man got a job yesterday a*
,1,-vator operator at 134 Spring Street
niid began learning the ropos under
t|. tutelnge of Joseph Ro*si. Two
liours later tiremen were called to chop
(ut his body. which w?s jamnied be
twfl-flfl the car and the wall below the
i fth floor.
i:<,*si said thnt hi* pupil had j u*hed
thfl lever Bfl hard that the cable flew
(tl the druni. He had saved himself by
l?aping through the door to the fifth1
floor. The new operator tiied to follow
him. but waa caught and dragged down.
DESTROYER IS
SUNK BY U-BOAT
British Ship Torpedoed in
Channel, Berlin Re?
port Claims.
Herlin, Aug. 14. A German subma?
rine torpedoed the British torpedo boat
ver Lassoo in the English Chan?
nel Sunday morning, according to an
Admiralty statement issued to-day. It
is announced also that between August
t and H) five Hritish and French steam
trs jiiul ten Hritish und French sailing
crnft were sent to the bottom by a Ger?
man submarine. Tho official statement
BB] I:
"One of our submarines Sunday
morning torpedoed in the British Chan?
nel the British torpedo boat destroyer
Lassoo.
"One of our submarines torpedoed in
the Channel between August I and 10
seven Britiflh nnd three French sailing
vetaela and three Hritish and two
French steamers."
Lloyds BBBflflBCflfl the sinking of the
Itclian steamship Nereus, the Italian
sailing VCBflel IHna and the French
siiiling vessel Saint Gaetan.
The NafflVa sailed from Newport
News on July If and passed Gibraltar
on August 7. She wh* built in ItOl,
was Bflfl i"eet long and of .'l,t?8u ton*
gross.
London, Aug. 14. The British Press
Bureau ifl B statement issued this even- '
ing cor.troverts the (ierman offlcial
statement with regard to the locality
where the Lassoo was sunk, saymg that
the destroyer was sent to the bottom
"u few BBilflB o!T the Dutch coast and
not in the Channel, as the German Ad?
miralty prctends."
Ihe destroyer Lassoo struck a mine
or was torpedoed, according to an of?
ficial statement iSBBfld this afternoon.
Six of the crew are missing. Two men
on board were injure.l
The Daaiah steamer Ivar was sunk by
a submarine olf Genoa, Italy, Sunday
according to a dispatch from Copen
hugen. The crew of the steamer wa*
saved.
*_--B
Teddy Bear Faminc Likely.
The kiddie* may hare to go without
their toy bruins in the near future, for
Henianun Shaw, organizer of the Teddy
Bear Makara' Inion. yesterday an?
nounced h general strike of '1.000 merti
ban of the association is being con
te^\Veatare organizing the UN teddy
bear makers so that they will be pre;
pared f itrikfl vvlitn the order come*,
aaid JUr. i?baw.
T. R. MAY JOIN
WITH BARNES
AGAINST SLATE!
Whitman and Calder
Opposed by Both,
Leaders Hear.
ANCIENT FOES
NOT AT PEACE
But Agree on Bacon for
Senate, Hinman for
Governor.
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt and his
old politiial enemy. William Barnes,
jr., will work for the same candidate
at the coming R.publican primarics if
the plans of some Republican leaders
work out.
No peacc pact has been arranged and
feeling between thc two men is as
? trong M ever. It is understood, how?
ever that both believe Governor Wl.lt*
man should not be renominated and
that a s-.rorif.er candidate should be
named for Initrd States Senator than
William M. Calder.
It also happens that cx-Senator Har
vey D. Hinman and Robert Bacon. who
are most prominently mentioned as
probable opponents of the Covernor and
Mr. Calder. will be equaily acceptable
t? Mr. Roosevelt nnd Mr. Barnes.
Mr. Hinman, who was aupported hy
thc Colonel against the Governor two
vcars ago. has long been a close friend
of Charles Evans Hughes. When Mr.
Hughes was Governor Mr. Hinman was
his floor leader in thc Senate, and
fought ihrough all his important r?
form measures.
Many Conferences Held.
Par ten days Republican. opposed
to Whitman and Calder have held many
conferences. By to-morrow it is ex?
pected thev will decide what course to
pursue. They will support Bacon and
Hinman. if they will run, though other
candidates have been considered.
Barnes has not hesitated to express
r.mself. Recently in "The Albany
Journai" he bemoaned the possibihty
thal Calder and Whitman should go
into the primarics without opponents.
nnd in private ho used more vigorous
t-rras.
Colonel Roosevelt has not made any
public statement, and none is expected.
It is known. however. thal within the
last two weeks hc has conferred with
two or more anti-Whitman Republi?
cans, and that they are convinced hc
\,ould welcome the opportunity to sup?
port an opponent of Whitman.
As a result of these conferences cer?
tain Republican leaders have not hesi?
tated to give it as their belief that the
' Colonel can be counted upon to support
the right kind of candidate against Gov
! ernor Whitman. No doubt is expressed
that ex-Senator Hinman fills the bill.
Barnes's Support Likely.
So far as Bari.es is concerned, it can
! bc said with authority that he would
support Mr. Bacon for the Republican
nomination lor Senator. Tne former
Ambassador to Krance fits right into
the pieture that Barnes BM IB Bil eyc
hs to thc calibre that a 1 B.tadi StatBfl
Seni.tor from this state should have.
Fx-Senator Hinman, too, will have the
support of the veteran politician, al?
though as a member of the Legislature
he was a thorn in the side of Harnes
As far as the Colonel is concerned
there is little doubt as to the attitude
he will tak.- if Mr. Racon an.l ex-Sena?
tor Hinman get into the light. Mr.
Hacon is one of his warmest personal
friends, and as for Mr. Hinman, those
who know Mr. Roosevelt well nav that
he has not changed his opinion of two
vears ago in the slightest way when
ihe ex-S.r.ator was Mr. Whitman s op?
ponent for the Republican nomination
for (Iovernor.
The time for filing pfimary petitions
rxpire- one week from to-day. so that
the anti-Whitman an.l anti-Calder Re?
publicans will have to work .lU.rkly.
One of their most prominent lca.lers
deelared yesterday that the whole thing
would be'settled before the end of the
week So far as the petitions are con?
cerned. he deelared that they eould be
rixed up within twenty-four hours.
lt was learned yesterday that tele
(nntinueil on paffl ?">. loliimn 2_
BRIBED TO AID
STIELOW, KING
NOW ALLEGES
RepudiatesConfession
and Accuses Mrs.
Grace Humiston.
HE WAS TO GET
$3,000, HE SAYS
Murder Charge Against
Him Dropped to Foil
Plan for Removal.
tFrnrn a S'a*f ror-wipoiii-nt ef TTie Trlbun*. 1
Albion, N. Y., Aug. 14. Erwin King'* j
iepudiation of his confession that he
and Clarence O'Connell were the mur?
derer* of (harles F. I'help* and his
housekeeper, Margaret Wolcott, in
West Shelby, in March of last year;
. his declaration that he was led to admit
? he murder because of an offer of
1*3,000 from Mrs. Grace Humiston, and
a successful attempt on the part of
John C. Knickerbocker. District Attor?
ney of Orleans County, to prevent the
removal of King to Kochester, were the
iay't important development* in Mrs.
Humi.Uon's desperate fight to estab
lish the innocence of Charles F. Stie?
low, under sentence of death for the
\ crime.
It wa* the most *evere blow the New
Vork woman ha* had. Just as ?he
and David A. White. Stielow'* attor
' ney. were making arrangement* to have
i King removed from the influence of
! the Orleans County officials by having
him taken to Kochester, Monroe Coun?
ty, ns a witne** in the hearing on the
j motion for a new trial before Supreme
I Court Justice A. J. Rodenbeck, the Dis
I trict Attorney got wind of their inten
tion and promptly withdrew the charge
of murder, which he had lodged against
King, and had him remanded to jail
'? a* his own witness in the hearing, with
bail at J3.U00.
Calls Hribery Charge Lie,
Mrs. Humiston branded the bribery
j offer charge a* a lie and then laid
plan* by which she expect* to take
King out of the county, ir spite of
Knickerbocker's opposition, and to ask
for the appointment of Surrogate
I Larkin, of Olean, N. Y., as special pros
' ecutor, on the ground that Knicker
; bocker is disqualified through reiter
ating his belief in the innocence of
King and the guilt of Stielow.
Mr. White left for N'ew York to
night, where he will confer to-morrow
with Stuart M. Kohn, of HO Maiden
baae, and Mrs. Inez Millholland Bois
sevain, both of whom are active in
behalf of Stielow. One course of action
undertaken to-day, was a request to
the officials of Cattaraugus County to
ask for the return of King for trial
on the charge of assault and robbery,
on which he was first arrested.
C. B. Nichols, Sheriff of the county,
could not be reached, however, by Mrs.
Humiston, and the plan was given a
temporary setback.
Mrs. Humiston characterized the ac
tivitie* of the District Attorney a* star
chamber methods. She said she had
been told she would be notitied when
King would be brought into court, so
she might be present. Instead, King
was taken before Justice of the Peace
A. ('. Tucker, without notification being
given Mrs. Humiston or Mr. White, they
assert. The warrant charging murder,
obtained by Sheriff Chester M. Hart?
lett, was immediately withdrawn by the
District Attorney on the representation
he had learned King was not at the
Phelpi home the night of the murder.
No witBflflflfla Brflffl called and no evi
dtence taken and the proceedings were
ov.r within a few minutes.
From the office of the ju tice of the
, peace King was hurried to the court of
Countv Justice I'red Downs, where he
was held as a material witress in $'1,000
haiL It is not unlikely the bail will be
furnished to-morrow by some one act
mg fur Mrs. Humiston in order that
King may be taken out of town. The
Sheriff would not let Mr. White or
Mrs. Humiston see King to-day, and
King was emphatic in declaring he
doesn't want to see either #f them. A
(nnllniie.l on paa-e fl. fulum* 4
That Fellow Briggs
"There's something about that fellow Briggs." you
hear people say whenever comic cartoonists are
mentioned. You hear it in locker-rooms at golf
cluba. in private homea, on suburban trains, in
billiard rooms and bowling alleys. in offices?and
there's always a chuckle that goes with it.
fclven while he is vacationing his characters continue
on their genial way. Thia morning. for instance. on
Page 1 4. Turn to it now.
*nt aXhe Eribune M
^?2_/ First to Last?the Truth: _?!?
jHUBL. St?s?l:ditorials?Ad\ertlscmcnts. .d___________L
,_______?. alemb_i ol u_ Audit Pur.au of C_ro_l_tle__. ,
BRITISH QUARANTINE
AGAINST N. Y. IS URGED
Fear Paralysis May Menace Ar?
mies in Training.
London, Aug. 15.?"The Time*" to
day urges the government to enforce a
most rigid quarantine against infantile
paralysis, now prevalent in N'ew York.
'"At the moment when we have huge
armies of men in training," says "The
Times,*' "an outbreak of this disease
would be a great disaster. For the
sake of our children, too, we must take
due precautions. Quarantine regula?
tion* should be enforced on passenger*
coming from N'ew York and other in
fected areas, and a thorough disinfec
tlon carried out in all case* where a
shadow of doubt exists. If we neglect
precautions and the epidemic spread*
here we *hall have only ourselves to
blame."_^^
BRANDEIS AVOIDS
MEXICAN PUZZLE
Writes Wilson Declining
Offer of Place on Joint
Commission.
\
[Fmm TM Tribune Bureau 1
Washington, Aug. 14. Owing to the
objection of Chief Justice White, as
outlined in The Tribune this morning,
Justice Brandeis declined to-day Presi?
dent Wilson's invitation to serve on
the joint commission to adjust the dif
ferences between Mexieo and the Unit
ed States. In company with Attorney
General Gregory, the justice visited the
White House to-night and conferred
with the President, Following the con?
ference, the following letter was made
public:
"My Dear Mr. President: I appreci
ate the opportunity for high service
which membcr?hip on the Mexican Gom
miision would present. _
"But, upon consultation wiih tne
Chief Justice, I nnd the *tate of the
business of the Supreme Court at the
present time to be such that it i* my
duty not to undertake this important
additional task.
"With deep regret, faithfully yours,
"LOLTS I). BRANDLTS."
The President i* understood to have
yielded only with great reluctance to
the desires of the Chief Justice. He
had set great faith on Justice Bran
deis's broad views and well known sym?
pathy with radical measures ifl help?
ing to bring order and stable govern?
ment out of the present Mexican chaos.
Chief Justice White, however, is de?
clared to have felt that the task was
too political in nature to be DBderUken
by a member of tne Supreme Court.
With the heavy calendar awaiting the
full term, and Justice Clarke's new
ness to the bench, he also felt it put
too heavy a burden upon the other
justice*.
Secntary Lane thus remains as tne
| only ucrinite choice of the President
i for the con-.mission. The third com
? missioneiship i* already understood to
have been offered to two men, who
I have declined. The President is hav?
ing difficulty in tilling it,
In view of the development* of the
railway situation, to which the Presi?
dent is now devoting his entire atten?
tion, it is believed that action on the
commission arill Bfl det'erred. < arranza
has been informed othcially that the
; commission plan, with his qualirica
i tions, is acceptable to the United
States. BflBCfl, there is no immediate
need of hurryiru* the announcement of
the American nflembers.
a
PUTSCASH IN HIS SHOE
AND FOOLS FOOTPADS
Bayonne Man Takes Beating, but
Saves His Money.
Ji.mcs McLaughlin was returning to
his home, at M Linnet Street, Bayonne,
N*. J., early yeatcrday. when he noticed
three men following him. He had a
jo'.l of bills in his pocket and believea
' tbe trio meant to hold him up when he
j-Dt to a lonely spot.
McLaughlin stepped into a hallway,
took off one of hi* shoes. placed the
meney in it and put it baek on his
fool. Then he continued on his trip
home.
When he got to a lonely spot, at
Avenue C and West L'leventh Street,
the three men pounced on him. While
rv.o of them held him tightly the other
, went through his pockets. but found
r.o money. A half hour later Mc?
Laughlin wa* found in the gutter. cut
and beaten.
"They beat me up. all right, Mc?
Laughlin said at the police station,
'out I fooled them on the money qucs
ITALIAN BOY SCOUTS
CALLED TO COLORS
Will Guard Railroad Stations,
Hospitals, Aeroplane Hangars.
Rome, Aug. 14. The boy scouts of
Italy are to take part in the war. The
Mn...itfla* *t that department has called
out all the boys belonging to the or?
ganization for service until the open?
ing of achools in October.
The scouts are to be divided into
two classes. The one over fifteen
years of age, with the permis.'ion of
their parents, will do duty in the war
-tone. us guurds at railroad stations
Bnd depot-s. The class under tifteen
year* will be enrolled in the territonal
-ervice. They will be statloned at
hospital*, mobilization centre*, mu?
nition factorie*, aeroplane itatiOB*
aad haaeiut, ? ....__. -
ROADS CONSMR PLAN
U. ALL-RIGHT SESSION
Report to President To-Day?
Brotherhoods Optimistic Over
Developments.
FAVORABLE LEGISLATION
OFFERED FOR 8-HOUR DAY
Law to Ease Burden of Higher Wages
Part of Proposal to Avert
Great Strike.
[From a Staff Correspondent of Thc Tribune.'
Washington, Aug. 14.?The success or failure of President
Wilson's attempt to avert a general railroad strike depends to
night on the conference committee of railway managers. They
are meeting in a session that may last until morning to con
sider a settlement proposal submitted to them by the President
Ihis afternoon.
The four great brotherhoods of employes tentatively have
agreed to the proposal, and its approval by the managers' com?
mittee would probably prevent the industrial war that menaces
the country.
Shortly before midnight leaders of the road managers said
that while their conference might continue several hours they
would have no announcement to make before to-morrow.
The President himself is optimistic. His entire day was
devoted to this supreme task of trying to bring the two ..eem
ingly irreconcilable forces together on a broad proposition
which must rely on an arbitration board for its detailed ex?
ecution. Diplomatic persuasion, sugar-coated threats, veiled
promises, the sheer power of the President's intellect, all
brought to bear in the interest of the nation's welfare, punctu
ated his meetings with each side. lt is the belief at the White
House to-night that the effort will win.
Situation Extremely Tense.
! ? On the other hand, all concerned in the controversy realize
that the situation is extremely tense. .\ccording to the best in?
formation available, a rejection by the railroads would bring
!on the strike. Few are willing to believe. however, that the
managers, knowing that the situation is in their hands, will
dare thwart the President's purpose by refusing to accede to
' his wishes.
The conference committee will give him its reply at nine
j o'clock in the morning. Another conference between the Presi
; dent and the employes has been arranged to follow that meeting.
The day's negotiations were cloaked in profoundest
Lsecrecy. The brotherhood's chiefs and the delegation of adjust
i ment chairmen would say absolutely nothing about their meet
: ing with the President in the morning. Silence, too, was main?
tained by the railroad managers when they left the President's
study late in the afternoon. The only statement that came from
the White House was this, from President Wilson himself:
"I have met both sides and have gone over the case with
I the utmost frankness. I shall not be able to judge until to-mor?
row whether we have found a feasibje basis for settlement."
President Makes Appea!.
The President's proposal was largely an appeal. He did
I not attempt to shift and sort the demands of the men and the
' counter proposals of their employers. He simply asked them to
'come together, to weigh their own several interests in the bal?
ance with the enornjous hardships that precipitate aetion by
either would inflict upon the eountry's millions of people. He
Tistened patiently to the presentation of each one's case. He
i knew it minutely before each spokesman uttered a word. Con
I sequently he was prepared to meet them in a better spirit than
j the Mediation Board had met them in New York.
Jh'finite Proposal Formed.
The outcome of it all was that a definite, concrete proposal
| took form as the conference progressed. It is impossible to
ascertain exactly to-night the details of this proposal, but The
Tribune correspondent was informed reliably that the settle?
ment in mind contained substantially the following terms:
The men to receive a promise of an eight-hour day.
Their demand for time and a half pay for overtime
to be arbitrated.
The railroads to waive certain counter proposals
presentcd in their answer to the employes' demands.
ihe financial loss entailed by the proposed change
to an eight-hour working day to be minl*nized by the
arrangement to be worked out later, providing for the
execution of the eight-hour schedule on a graduated
scale, probably extending over a period of years.
A promise to the railroads of legislation that will
tend to asslst th.m in revi 'ng their schedules and meet?
ing the burdens imposed upon them by the eight-hour
day working basis.
Mueh Speculation in Capital.
Washington is revelling in speculation upon what took
place at the President's meetings. One report had it that tha
President himself had been asked to act as arbiter of the im
pending difficujties. This was emphatically denied. But it was
learned positively that the discussions of the empLves and the
managers with the Pitsident did not coneern the scope, method
