ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
T W MN T Y-S E V1SNTII YEAH
8 TAGES
PHOENIX, .ARIZONA, TUESDAY MOIiNINd, AUGUST 15, 1910
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 89
ADERS OPTIMIST
iiiLlJLl
Til
E
f JlMjniil UMMJIMj VV
Tariff Does Not Reduce Living
CANDIDATE HUGHES FLAYS THE
DEMflCRATIC PARTY FOR CLAIWS
DFGREDIT FDR 191B PROSPERITY
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire,
SPOKANE, Wash., Aug. 14. Charles E. Hughes tonight told an
audience in Spokane's stadium that the proposed democratic legislation
against the dumping of foreign-made goods in this country after the war,
was not worth the paper on which it was written.
"This piece of legislation," Mr. Hughes said, "would be about as avail
able as the piece of paper I hold in my hand, iw effect, ih protecting the
American people in the economic war that will come wnen peace comes o
Europe."
Mr. Hughes read a synopsis of the proposed legislation. The democratic
party, he said was not equal to the task of protecting American industries
by a tariff.
"If you want to see what they are equal to," he said, "read the anti
dumping clause, they put in the revenue bill.
"I shall not read it in full. You would need to sit down and put a towel
around your head, get down to it and study it, read it over again and again
and then you would be puzzled to know what it meant If you found out
what it meant, you would agree with me that it was obviously ineffective and
would not Aork. , ... .
"Now, what would a prosecuting attorney have to prove as a violation
of this act," Mr. Hughes continued after the synopsis.
"He has got to prove that this act of commonly and systematically
bringing goods into this country contrary to their prohibition, is being vio
lated. He has got to prove that such act is done with the intent to destroy
or injure any industry of the United States. If he doesn't prove that, he
has got to prove that it is for the purpose of preventing the establishment
of an industry in the United States or tor the purpose of restraining any part
of the commerce of the United States.
'Why, that is a piece of legislation that would be abrflit as available a
that piece of paper in my hand, in effect, in protecting the American people
in this economic war. . ,
"Now there was a remedy, a countervailing duty which was provided but
our friends were so strong to their traditions of tariff for revenue only, that
they would have none of it." .
"I am desirous mat this matter of I
the tariff should be attended to with
out abuse. I do not propose simply
because I am a candidate for office to
wpk office under false pretense. I
am a candidate and a pood republi
can, but if I am elected. I shall en-
fleMVor In tbe best of mv ability to
see that principle applied for the pub- I
lie good and not for public pain. I
Mr. Hughes devoted himself almost
exclusively at the night meeting here
to a discussion of the tariff. At an j
earlier meeting, he addressed an and-
itnce composed exclusively of women i
voters, and In an address at Coeur
d Alene. Ida., at noon, defended himself ,
on the charge that he lacked construe-
u. e polity
In his discussion of the tariff to-
night, the nominee declared that the
democratic party claims credit for the
:"great prosiwrlty that the country is
enjoying touay. i
"1 h-y seern to think, he said, that (
i. . , i - .. .... i ..
intelligence that thev do not know the '
source of that nromieri t v Thev e.m
to think that the American people have
very short memories. I think It will
be found on election dav that the
American people have very god mem-
ones. 1
"Our opponents proposed four years
ago to reduce the cost of living. Thev
said that what was necessary was to
reduce the tariff and that done, down i
would come the cost of living. They
proceeded to reduce the tariff, but
they did not reduce the cost of liv
ing. Whnt they did was to reduce the
opportunity to make a living. They
did that right effectively."
The nominee reviewed conditions of
unemployment in the country soon af
ter tbe outbreak of the Kuropean war.
"Had there been a taking of 'stock
at that time." he said, "had the Ameri
can people been able to voice its con
demnation, there would not have been
much left of the democratic party, for I
me people understood wnat nad nap-
li.ni-il to too Amrrtiin cmmitnuiou It h
and why."
Mr. Hughes referred to the fact that
exisirts are higher today than ever
before.
"I am told that fn zinc alone exports
Jumped in a year three thousand per
cent." he said. "Exports of mules
Jumiied 2,!00 per cent in one year. Per
haps that was due to the democratic
party.
"Why, it Is an insult to the intelli
gence of the American people to charge
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ;
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. Associate
Justice Louis D. Krandeis of the su
preme court informed President Wil
son tonight that because of the mass
of business before the court he would
be unable to accept tbe president's de
signation to serve on tjie Joint com
mission which will attempt to solve
ttie difficulties between the United
Slates and Mexico.
Justice Rrandcls confered with the
president and Attorney General
Gregory late In the day and the ques
tion of the Justice's accepting was
gone over thoroughly. Jter the fol
lowing letter from Justice Hrandeis to
the presidcnT"was made public:
"My Iar Mr. president: 1 appre
ciate tbe opportunity for high service
which mcmlnThhlii nn the com
mission would present. Rut upon
consultation with the chief justice 1
find that the atate of the business tof
the supreme court at the present time
to he such that it is my duty not to
undertake this Important constructive
task.
Tho giving out of .Tdatice Rrandcls
letter was the first formal announce
ment that he had been offered the
post, although it has been known de
finitely that he and Secretary ljine
were two of the three men selected
for membership on the commission.
The name of the third man has not
been made public.
RRflWnPIQ Tfin Rll QV Tfl fiQQIQT
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 hi i 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 n 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i - i
IN SETTLING MEXICAN MUDDLE
n
that, or credit that, abnormal artificial
prosperity produced by the horrible
war abroad to the policies of the dem
ocratic party."
Mr. Hughes also assailed the admin
istration for what he termed its lack
of preparedness to meet the situation
on the .Mexican border., charged that
the administration had changed its
mind overnight on the preparedness
issue "when a great leader went
through the country" telling thrnwil
,,f preparedness, and, reiterated that
lc stood for "an adequate measure of
preparedness"
M Hughes today addressed his
flrst aU(ll(.Il(.e composed solely of
women voters.. They heard him In
. ,, .,i ,ii4,.
llir ill Bl ,'l liic r t t.tv. i i.-i iiciii,!
rd here. Mr. Hughes touched upon I
suffrage and nis views' concerning It
and reiterated to a large extent, at
tacks on the administration made to
las' at Cocur d'Alene, Idaho.
"'peak to you womei as I do
m"n." the nominee said. "I did not
come here to make a different kind I
"f fP"- n from the kind I make the
""-n- ' know you are solicitous
ntM'"t he wtlfare of thin country,
There Is no doubt thtt the heart of
womanhood is patriotic all through."
Mr. Hughes' salutation of the
''m,,n as "fellow citizens" was"ap
He told them that he was I
(Continued on Page Two;
n
! HUGHES DATES NOT TO
l CONFLICT WITH WILSON'S :
I . I
! NFW I URK. Aug., 14.-Wm. J
j R. Willcox. chairman, of the re- I
I publican national committee, an- I
I noiincid today the itinerary of j
Cbarl'-H K. Hughes had been
changed through "tot1teness to i
! President Wilscn to avoid speech
I ei by both candidates in Ken-
'I tuckv September 4. From Sep-
I tember 1, when Mr. Hughes will ;
i be in Kansas City, the Itinerary ;
I will be advanced one dav until I
I Lexington, Ky., is reached. Sen- j
I tember :. The extra dav gained ! i
! will be rilled in Nashville, Tenn., I )
' where Mr. Hughes will sreek Sep- j :
I tern it 4. the day scheduled for I I
I the president to scak in Ken- j
I tneky.
i nc general understanding had been
that both Justice Hrandeis and Sec-
retary Ijine had accepted places on
in) commission una mere nave rteen
intimations tjiat the Justices decision the Japanese barracks now is bc
t; withdraw was reached after Chief sieged bv tho Chinese soldiers. Re-
Justlce White had Interposed objec-
tions. There was no official confir-
mation or that, however, as all ef
those concerned have refused to dis-
cuss the subject.
Sherman Characterizes ,
Gompers 'Public Nuisance'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. President
Kamucl Gompers of the American
Federation of "Labor was characterized
as a "public nuisance" by Senator
Sherman of Illinois In a digression to
day from a senate speech on the
shlpiUng bill.
"There is no more tyrannical, out
rageous Injustice than that of lead
ers who live on the sweat of other
peoples brows," said Senator Sher
man. "Mr. Gompers Is a public
nuisance."
Referring to the Indianapolis and.tlcaily and personally
AUSTRIANS
ni
i
I TRIBUTE TO MEMORY
I , OF DR. MURPHY
rmc.MiO,
Am
14. Rich -and I
mi Impressive
poor nlise pai
I tribute to tho memory of 1H
I John R Murphy, the noted stir- I
! gwin. who was buried today from I
1 St. James' Catholic church.
I Thousand;! ot persons viewed j
!the ImkIv at the Murphy home in 1
South Michigan avenue and a I
larger outpouring of people at- I
I tempted to pain entrance to the I
! church. I
-n
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COPI ENHAGF.N. Aug. 1 . (via Lon
don). The Fokthing, or' lower house,
of the Danish parliament, today voted
in favor of selling; the lanish West
Indies to the I'nited States, if a plcfis
cite favored the sale. The vote was
sixty-two for the proposition to forty
four against It, cne member being de
nied a vote and six being absent.
The discussion jn the Kolkehting
turned upon the question whether the
elections or both the elections and the
plebiscite shall take place before
reaching a settlement on the sale of
the Islands. Premier Zahle stated that
If the elections should be necessary,
the government would have to ask the
American government If the matter
iMiM-4--wwmned until the newly
elected rtgsdag meets in November.
An, Influential member of the con
servative party In the landething, the
upper house, stated to the Associated
1'ress that it seems to be a settled
matter that the landething will reject
the treaty. Public meetings on the
treaty will begin in the landething to
morrow. The fact thut the opposition in the
folkething was not in the slightest de
prye placated by the government's pro
posed plebiscite, the decision was the
same as had leen predicted two days
ago appears to justify the prediction
that the landething. where the oppo
sit ion la In the majority, will reject the
treaty. A rejection would mean a de
lay of probably three months In the
final disposition of the islands since
general elections hardly could be fin
ished before the end of October, and
the new government probably would
not get Into harness before the mid
dle of November.
As the situation now stands, the
whole matter hus become one of purely
internal party politics in which the
disposition of the islands is all but
lost sight. The government feels that
the sale or retention of the islands
ought not to be made dependent in any
degree on Internal mrlfe of the varlouH
parties, which it. would be, if the de
cision is thrown In with the varied
issues of a general election. The gov
ernment la particularly anxious to ac
celorate a decision as to the fate of the
islands, because it feels if is under
obligation to the t'nited States to
avoid needless delay In the matter
ENGINEER LEONARD DIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ToLKlX), Aug., 14. Dennis W.
leopard, engineer on the Twentieth
Century limited. New York Central
train, which was wrecked at Am-
Herat. Ohio, last March 29, was found
dead In bed at his home here early
' today. , Heart disease superinduced
by worry over the wreck is given by
physicians as the cause of death.
Jle was absolved from blame in the
castropne but bad been unaole to
keep out of his mind the sight of the
i wreckage and tho cries of the
mangled passengers.
ATTACK JAP GARRISON
Republican. A. P. Leased Wire
TOMO, Aug. 15. Chinese troops
nave attacked the Japanese garrison
at Chengchbttun, between Mukden and
t.naoyangru, and have killed or
wounded seventeen Japanese soldiers
and killed one officer. According to
omciai aavices trom .nengcniatun,
Inforcements arc being rushed to the
heleaguerd garrison frim the Japan-
ese force stationed at Kaiyun and Su-
dlnghai. The fighting resulted from
the arrest of a Japanese merchant
Is Angeles dynamite trials. Senator
Sherman declared tho federation
president had "prostituted the cause
of labor by using the funds of labor
ing men for the defense x of those
criminals.'"
"Mr. Gornpers never apologized to
anybody," he continued, "but it was
the most fortunate thing that ever
happened to Mr. Gompers that he him
self escaped Indictment on this same
charge.
"J.'ve been owing this to Mr. Gom
pers for some time and I'm handing It
to him now and I m responsible poll-
DAN SHIS
Cost But
AND GERMANS FALLING BACK
niinni i tin nrn i
iiuuuiniiu u i ill
E TEUTONS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Austrlans and Germans in (In- I
li' i.i are still falling back l fore the
advance of the Kussb'ns, who, ac
cording to Pctrograd, h ive made ad
ditional gains along the S.-reth ail I
Llpa rivers and have captured the
strongly fortified t w n of Tustba-y,
northwest of the I'niester.
On tl'e upper Sereth. however, tli-
Teutonic allies at some points on
their newly chosen line are holding
bark the Russians with
artillery fire.
vigorous
I.erlin says that south of Rrody on
the Li b and Jlraberka sector Russian
attacks were put down w ith hca y
losses and that Russians who -had
penetrated the Teutonic positions on
the Zboroff-Konucayj line, northeast
of Tarncpol were driven off and Son
of the mtaken prisoners. According
of them taKen prisoners. According
to Vienna a Russian attack south
vith the field 1 fore the Austio
Cerrnnn positions covered with Rus
sian dead.
No change took place Mondav
along either the British or French
lines in France. Pad weather hinder
ing the operations, which were con-
lin,..l ..lr.,..ul . liti, ..!.. ft ill,..-..
j,.iJ 4!,r,ii ,,. r-..,i; n.- I
. '. nj , L . ,
ronnn nncmnm
rnuivi milium
i
over a front if ." yards southc-ts' ""'" y"'" - ,
of Thicpv;rf-Po,.ieres secmr which f ""' auiTvisors of Maricopa coun- j
.u !..... ,..i-t.. .Uv and County Asses-sor J. T. Bone,
f-ont. according to Home, the TtaPan 1
hiive made still further advances
agalnrt the Austrian also ti e Carso
t'latenu and east of hill No. 22. It
tlv hitter sector nnother line r.f
trenches was penetrated and more
men taken prisoner. In the (lori.i i
setter. Rome r.iy the Austrian guns
sre being b'tsily cmploved g:iint the
Italians. H"re, ncc online t Vienna
seven charges bv the Italians were
put how n l y the Austrians
I'etrograd reports a continuation of
the Turkish offensive on Xhx F'Tiau
frontier, hut n.serrs that a retreat of
the Turks b.s been fovt.d on tit-
southwest bank of Mko Van. Tufi,h
Armenia through tl'e fire of the II'W
;:n flotilla on the bike, irhe Tnr1i'-!
war office savs the Kusy'nns In I'-r-Fie
continue to be criven bark hv t'te
ott iman trots. and 'bat In Armenia.
no'l'- of ritps. tne turks na e ni-"i-
further nrlwin'-e.
The IVitish torpedo !
Lassco has been sunk t
submarine
at dc;rover
v a .erm:-r.
Situation Uncharged
LONDON, Aug 14 The sitii'tioti
-ibng the whole Hritish front is un
changed, according to the officii!
statement issued by the war off!' 0
tonight m
The TVtiiish steamer Ivar. C1t tons.
i v unlt bv a submarine off Genoa
Italy. Sunday, according to a dis -
pntell " Renter's TeleCTsm rnmi""'
from Copenhagen. Tbe crew of t.
" ' ' 1 .
I III I I n mil m, j -
Lai-no sank Sunday off 'he Pulch
!,,.(.,.. ,-lr n mine or liee a
mast, laving slru. k a mine 01 ne n
tnrnedoed. nc'orlinr to an
statement Issued this afternoon. Six
of the- crew of the destroyer are
tnlssinr. Two men on board were
injured.
Available shipning records do not
c.intain any destroyer l-f'.
fierman Ft "id It
ftpm.lN. A 'if.. It. 'v'a London.
A r'.erman sMjimarine torped'H-d the
Hritish toroedit boat destroyer Lnssco
Sunday morning according n an ad
miralty statement issued today. V.
is announced also that between Aug-i-ust
2 and 10, five Hritish and French
.learners and 10 Hritish and French
canine crafts were, sent to the bot
tom by a German aubmarlne.
Artillery Duels
T'ATUS. Aug., 14. There were vig
orous artillery duels south of the
(Continued on Page Five
Doctors Say, Man
Insane, Jury Says
Must Stand Trial
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGAIJOS, Ariz., Aug. 14. Against
the testimony of six alienists that the j
prisoner was Insane and without aj
sitigle. witness heing produced to the
contrary by the state, a Jury sum
moned here today to decide this point,
hrouKht In a verdict of sanily In the
case of Jack Fall, charged with killing
his partner at Patagonia. Ariz., last
spring. As the result Fall will have
to stand trial foe murder. The alien
ists were both army surgeons and lo
cal doctors.
The Twelfth regular infantry was
brought to full strength today by the
arrival of COO recruits. '
The Second Idaho Infantry, on a
practice march from Fort Huachtica,
encamped near East Canilln tonight.
Hegular officers sav the. guardsmen
showed endurance equal to the sea
soned United States troops. No sick
ness is reported and the men are in
splendid form,
Chance To Earn It
COMMERCE COMMISSION
INQUIRY IS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HMSTOX. Mums., Aug. 14. An In
quiry by the Interstate Commerce
Commission into the threatened rail-
niiiii si i the wuuMi noi ne a icuicuy lor :
the crisis at the present moment, '
I resident Wilson said in a letter re
ceived by President Charles F. Weed
of the Itoston Chamber of Commerce
today. The communication, dated An
gust
il, follows:
fly Uear Mr. Weed: Allow me
to acknowledge the receipt of your
telegram of August Sth. conveying to
me the vote of the lioston Chamber
of Commerce recommending that the
Interstate Commerce Commission be
instructed by congress to ascertain
the facts in the pending railroad con
troversy. You need not doubt that the full
importance and gravity of the now
IONS
ABE LOWERED BY
The state board of equalization
rave out their opinion yesterday after-,
1A'!,.u,''h 'J Lf, 'Jh?i
assessed valuation should remain as
i it has leen heretofore, they came
nearer to doing that, than to uphold
ing the contention ot the supervisors
that the assessed valuation should
be cut -0 per cent.
Thev ordered in effect that there
f-hould be an X kt cent cut in all 1
my and town lots, and per cent cji
n irrigated farm lands. j
The. valuations as turned over to t
the state board of equalization, were
a st he board of supervisors had made -
them, that is a per cent reduction !
of Assessor Hone's figures. The state
board was xiwt rlcss to take into
account Mr. itonx's figures, but could i
act on the supervisor's figures alone, j
Thev accordingly ordered that the
valuation of irrigated lands be raised
;n j,r rPr,t, making a valuation of
$1:1.4 .'A.L'Ki.ihi or an Increase of
TAX II I
BOARD'S ACTION
t
I' IH.7 l'l.ii". They arrived at this In- .Santos, who arrived in Juarez tuJay
crease bv taking "JO er cent of an I for a conference with General Tran
Jm valuation, and adding the result, j Cisco Gorizles, included thirty-two
$ 11. which would give a valuation , stringed instruments. The concert was
of J.Ml, as compared to Mr. Rone's ! arranged by Andres Garcia, local Mex
5 1 iKI and the supervisor's Jfl This lean consul, with the consent of the
brings the board of equalization's fig-I American military authorities,
ores closer to the assessor's than to American authorities are investigat
the supervisors' ' ing reports that E. H. Howe of A ru
in the case of town and city lots. t arilio. Texas, has been held without
they . ordered in effect an 8 per cent, hearing by civil authorities in Juarez
decrease on Hone's figures, ami a ' for more than a week and that he has
l"i per cent increase of the super-1 been employed daily as a grave digger.
'"" ''
of :!.:!04. 13.00.
The board arrived at these valua-
! t ifitiii (m tha crimn mfinimr a a thct
ilid the valuation on irrigated lands,
I 1 1H 1 "V maimiK n i i-t-iii
flirtirwr
(Continued on l'age Five)
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrej
WASHINGTON, Aug. 11 The ad
ministration revenue bill as amended
by the sennte finance comm'ttee was
approved late tonight by the demo
cratic senate vaueus and will lie re
ported in the senate by Wednesday.
The measure leaders estimate will
yield SLTiO.OOll.non annually an Increase
over $15,500.0011 over the estimated
revenue as it passed the house
The caucus unstained the finance
committee amendment to the wine
schedule after a vigorous fight led by
Senator I'helan of California, for re
tention of the Jiotise rates. As up
proved the tax on still wines will be
about 8 cents per wine gallon, and the
tax oh grape brandy and wine spirits
used In the fortification of sweet
wines will bo 55 cents tier proof gal
lon as against 10 cents proposed in
the house hill.
On champagne and -sparkling wine
a tax of three cents would be levied
on each half pint; on artificially car-
honntod wlue 24 cents per half pint
and on each bottle or other container
of cordials or similar compounds 1 Va
cents per half pint.
Tim house provision for the creation
of a tariff commission was approved
with a senate amendment. The. com
mission wo'ild consist of six member
to be appointed bv tho president no
more than three of whom shall he
members of the same political party.
In view of the adoption Inst night
of the license tax on stock of corpor
ations, the caucus voted to eliminate
stamp taxes on express and freight
bills of kiding and telegraph and tel
ephone messages. Stamp taxeet are
retained however, on. bonda, deben
REVENUE BILL ftS AMENDED IS "
APPROVED HI SENATE CAUCUS
NO' REMEDY
acute controversy between the rail
roads and their employes has been a
constant subject of thought and con
ference wilh me, or that I have been
trying to make sure that no mean3 of
assisting
looked
settlement was over
"There is no compulsion of law
available by which we could oblige
either party to the controversy to
await the finding of an inquiry by
the interstate commerce commission
and it seems to me that such an in
quiry is not a remedy at the moment.
"As I write1, conferences are in pro
gress in New York City between both
parties to the controversy and the fed
eral board of mediation and concilia
tion and I am hourly awaiting- a re
port from those conferences before de
termining what is my duty.
"Sincerely vours,
(Signed) "WOODROW WILSON."
Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
F.L PASO. Aug. 14. When Captain
v uoieri.. .-naien at tne Kiglith Mas-
sachuseTIs infantry stepped on the
mud flats abme the Rio Cmnde in ir-
V'u?Hlv rVM'n that s"veral sho,s
the reply was a Mexican bullet that
kicked up the water about fifty feet
away, according to his report to mili
tary headquarters this evening.
The shooting occurred near the
point on the outskirts of the city
Known as tne island, where Massa
chusetts outposts claim to have been
sliot at several times previously.
Private Philip Smith of Company H
was the one making tbe report to
Captain Staten. He said three shots
were directed toward him from the
.Mexican side.
No return fire was made by the
guardsmen, but the posts were
strengthened for the night.
For the first time since the inception
of the recent crisis, a Mexican militarv
band crossed into El I'aso to give a
, concert in a local plaza. The ban.d, at
tached to the brigade of General Jose
. '' ni xv.we. w no
street railway company, is charged
with disturbingthe peace.
Private reorts from Chihuahua Citv
I Raid that General Huertas Vargas,
. . i-i n.u ,,i voanuiia, recently
conferred with General Ti-vi aA
(Continued on rage Two)
tures and certificates in indebtedness:
etivepaneos, customhouse receipts, in-
FUrnnce policies, foreign steamship
tickets and Pullman car seats and
Iei1 hs
Several party leaders waged a los
ing fight against the tlyestuffs tariff.
hi approving the proposal, however.
the caucus inclinJed an amendment
under which the duties will not be
come effective until tr.c close of the
European war. however, or until con
ditions of importation should have
been substantially restored. It also
was provided that all existing duties
UMiin tlyestuffs shall lie huspended
during the present war.
To Begin Fight
Report On
WASHINGTON", Aug. 14 Scores of
absentee representatives reeurne'd ,to
tho' tapitol tonight for the fight over
thu conference report on th? $315,
soo.oon naval bill, which begins in the
house tomorrow.
Small navy men admit that tho
house is almost certain to approve
the senate building and personnel in
creases, over which the principal
clashes are expVcted. , v'
Chairman Padget. of the naval
committee, will move that the house
concur in the Increases, which pro
vide for construction of 15" ships in
IX SNIPERS
STILL BUSY ON
111 Ell
a three years program, including four.' basis.
WORKING
BASIS IS
IN SIGHT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. President
Wilson conferred today with both
parties to the threatened country
wide railway strike and tonight it
i'PIK-ared that sufficient foundation
had bien laid to furnish a working
basis for a settlement of the differ
ences of the employes and employers.
The president will meet both side
again tomorrow.
At the conclusion of the day's con
ferences, the president issued thi3
statement:
"I have met both sides and have
gone over the case with the utmost
frankness. I shall not be able to kno-.y
vntil tomorrow whether we have
found a feasible basis for .settlement."
The foremost questions are what
shall be arbitrated. If arbitration is
to he resorted to, and what form of
arbitration shall be adopted. Repre
sentatives of the employes maintain
that their demand for an eight-hour
day and time and a half for over
time is the only concrete proposition
under discussion. They insisted to
the president in their conference to
day that the railroads make some
definite counter proposal. If the rail
roads submitted some proposed form
of settlement, they said, they wuld
be ready to discmss negotiations fur
ther The employes are understood to bn
ready Mo consent to the principle of
arbitration if thecontingent proposals
of the management, which the men
sav involve rights they have won in
thirty years' effort are eliminated
from consideration, and if arbitration
is conducted by a board on whirh all
four brotherhoods are represented.
Immediately after learning the em
ployes' proposition, the president
semmoned the committee of manacers
and held a long conference with them.
They left the White House to confer
among themselves throughout the
r.isht. if necessary, and the general
unierstanding va that they dis
cussed the advisability of withdraw
ing their "contingency" proposals and
submitting a proposition "without
strings." as demanded by the men.
Whiie representatives of the em
ployes insisted that they had not yet
ngreed to arbitrate anv feature of
their differences, there was a growing
impression that arbitration, or some
form of compromise would lie agree!
upon. At no time, it was said, did
th representatives of the men Indi
cate! that unless their demands were
granted unqualifiedly they would go
on strike.
r.oth f-ides refused absolutely to dis
cusn their meeting with the president
or venture any forecast on the prob
able outcome of the negotiations, but
leaders of the two factions were op
timistic tonight that a strike would
be av rted.
The president, it was declared, mada
no compromise propositions to e'ithct
siue- toua y. lie. merely inuenen to us
representatives of the employes and
thl-n talked with the managers and
suggested that some concrete working
basis be agreed upon before procsed
ing further. Indicative of his desire
to learn what results come from the
railroad managers' meeting tonight
before taking any further sten. he ar
ranged another meeting with them for
! o'clock tomorrow morning, and a
conference with representatives of
the employes for three o'clock tomor
row afternoon. Tomorrow's cabinet
meeting has been cancelled so tb
president may devote most of hs
tim? to the railroad problem. H
cancelled several engagements today
that he might have the fullest oppor
tunity to talk with the two (.ides
A. Ft. Gnrretson. president of the
Order of Railway Conductors, and
spokesman for the employes' repre
sentatives, made it clear today that
under no circumstances will the em
ployee agree to arbitration under the
N'ewlands act. The boards of arbl -t
rat ion provided by that act. thy
maintain, are ton small. The balance
of power, they contend, is too close
and as a result the employes have
Buffered. Indications were that the
president, recognizing this situation,
miht proitise a special board of ar
bitration if the negotiations reach tho
arbitrating stage, composed nf as
many as twelve men, including rep
resentatives of all the brotherhoods.
Reports that the president had
notified the managers that iinlesi
some agreement could . be leached
with the men he would invoke his
power to influence congress to pass
an eight-hour law were circulated hut
discounted by those In close touch
with the situation. . (
"I would fight any attempt to pass
such a tneasurA.' wm tbe terse re-
Today On
The Naval Bill
battleships and four battle cruisers
next year and an entist.?tt strength of
74,000. President Wilson and Secre
tary Daniels have stood miu irely be
hind the larger uuthoriaztion.
Democratic leader Kuchtn. wh all
along has opposed the administra
tion's big army and navy measure,
expects to speak tomorrow against
the conference report. i
A contest is expected also on' the
senate amendments providing ' for
navy yard improvements and chang
ing the system of promotion for of
ficers of the grade of commander and
above from a seniority to a selection
