MARKETS
WEATHER
ARIZONA: Tuesday,
local thunderihowers.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Aug. 9, 25.40.
Associated Press Special Leas ed Wire Service.
'iKESS uce hve cents
VOL. 19, NO. 68.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 15, 1916.
jch 11 h i
DUMPING tl
INADEQUATE;
SAYS HUGHES
N SPEECH
Republican Candidate for
President Declares that Anti-Dumping
Legislation Is
Not Worth "Paper It
Written On"
Is
CONDEMNS DEMOCRATIC
TARIFF IN EVERY WAY
T e 1 XT I
Hughes OpeakS to Women
and Tells Them He heels i bitration shall be adopted. Represen
.1 . ti a L 1 ! tatives of the employers maintain their
that Ihey Are as Much ln-jdeniand for an eight-hour day and
lerested as Are Male Voters ; time and a half for overtime is the
(By Review Leased Wire)
SPOKANE, Aug. 14. Charles ,E
Hughes tonight told an audience in
Spokane's stadium that the proposed
n.ninrrtir legislation aeainst the
dumping 'of foreign-made goods In this ' negotiations further. The employes
country after the war was not wnrth are understood to be ready to consent
... . , to the princ pie of arbitration of the
the paper on which It was written ! ' P pposal8 0f the managers.
"This piece of legislation." Mr. Hughes, wh.chthe claim JnvoIve Ms
said, " would be about as available j thpy naye won n thirtv years' effort
as the piece of paper I hold In my are enminated from consideration, and
hand, in effect, in protecting the jf arbitration Is conducted by a board
American pt'jple in the economic war on which all four brotherhoods are
that will come when -peace comes to renresented.
Europe." I Immediately after learning the em-
Mr. Hughes read a synopsis of the j ployes' position, the president sum
proposed legislation. The Democratic moned the committee of managers
1 1 an1 iolH i Innc pnnfprpnrp with tnpm.
party, he said, was not equal fj tne ,
task-of protecting American Industies
hv a tariff- . I
"If you want to see what they are
equal to," he said, "read the anti
dumping clause they put in the rev
enue bill.
"I sha 1 olntraendiur lawY ff
"I shall not read in full. You would
need to sit down and put a towel j
around your head, get dVwn close to
it and study it, read it over again and
again and men you wouia De puzziea j 8ome other form of compromise would
to know what it meant. If you found j j,e agreed upon.
out what it meant you Would agree j At no time. It was said, did the
with me that it would not work. j representatives of the men Indicate
"Now what would a prosecuting at- j that unless their demands were grant
torney have to prove as a violation ed unualifiedly they would go on
of this act?" Mr. Hughes continued ! strike.
after reading the synopsis. "He has'
got to prove that this act of conmon- j
. A A. ,, , ,
ly and systematically bringing goods
into this country contrary to their Lpa(lprg of two faction were optl
prohibition, is being violated. He has i mi8tlc tonight that a strike would be
got tt) prove that such act is done j he averted. The president, it was
with the intent to destroy or Injur j declared, made no compromise propo
ariy industry of the United State. If sitions o eif'er side today. He merely
he doesn't prove that he has got n :
prove that it is for the purvMse of i
preventing the establish -nt of
industry in the United States or for
the purpose of restraining any part of
the commerce of the United States.
"Why, that is a piece of legislaf?jr.
that would be about as available 83
that piece of paper n my hand, in
effect, in protecting the American
people in this economic war.. !
"ow there wa? a remedy a coun-
tervailing duty which was provid. !
... i j .
but our friends were so strong to the.r ,
traditions of tariff for revenue only
that they would have none of it.
"I am desirous that this matter of
the tariff should be attended to with
out anuse. i do not propose simpiy
because I am an candidate for office
to seek office under false pretense,
I am a candidate and a good Republl-.
ran but if I am elected. I shall en-;
deavor to the best of my ability to !
see that principle applied for the pub-1
lie good and not for the private gain."
I f w TTnrliAa AavrxtttA tiirticolf altnnat
exclusively at the night meeting here ,
- .it . .k Af
1(1 a uiMlinMUli ui iiir iaiiii. n i an
earlier meeting he addressed an audi- j
ence composed exclusively of women i
voters.
In his discussion of the tariff to- j
night, the nominee said the Demo-
cratic party claimed credit for th
"great prosperity the country is en
joying today.
"What they did was to reduce the
opportunity to make a living. They
did that right effectively."
The nominee reviewed conditions of
unemployment in the country soon
after the outbreak of the European
war.
"Had there been a taking of stock
at that time." he said, "had the Ameri
can people been able to voice its con
demnation, there would not have been
much left of the Democratic partv. for
the peoole understood what hud han
pened to the American commonwealth
and whv."
Mr. Huehes refered to the fact thnt
evnorts are higher today than ever
before.
(Continued from Page S)
President Confers With Both
Sides to Threatened Strike;
Another Meeting Scheduled
hief Executive Holds Extensive Conferences With Repre
sentatives of the Railroad Brotherhoods and Then With
Those of the Operators. No Announcement Is Made
Concerning Result Some Ground for Arbitration Sought
(By Review Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14 Presi
dent Wilson conferred today with both
parties to the threatened country-wide
railway strike and tonight it appeared
that sufficient foundation had been
laid to furnish a working basis for a
settlement of the differences of the
employes and employers. The presi
dent will meet both sides again tomor
row. At the conclusion of the day's con
ferences the president issued this
statement. '
"I have met both sides and have
gone over the case with the utmost
frankness. I shall not be able to
judge until tomorrow whet'ier we have
found a feasible basis for setlement."
"The foremost questions are what
snail ne armiraieu, u muiuwiuu iu
be resorted to. and what form of ar-
'only concrete proposition unaer uis-
' .. -1 Tlioif InQtstori to tliA nrpcl.
i cussion.
I dent in their conference today, that
the railroads make some definite
proposal. "If the railroads submitted
some proposition of settlement, they
said, they would be ready to discuss
u- , .
They left the White House to confer
j among themselves throughout tne
I night., if necessary and the eeneral
understanding was that they discuss
ed the advisability of withdrawing
their "contingency" proposals and
Fubmittine a proposition "without
strines" as demanded by the men.
Whil erepresentatives of the em-
Plw insisted that they had not yet
agreed to arbitrate any feature of
their differences, there was a grow-
! ine impression that arbitrafriort, or '
uc
meeting with t he presl-
dent or venture any forecast on ten!
.... ,m , .
listened to the representatives of the j
employes and then talked with the
" u ' 5 I
t win I ric v ji !iu, uama ur atirru i
upon before proceeding further. Indi- j department with Europenn belliger
cative of his desire to el am what re- ents during recent months. 1ms just
suits come from the railroads' con-j been issued by the department. It
fprence tonight before taking any fur- ron)ainR nn i'lr,nri !,:..
ther step, he arranged another meet
ing with them for 9 o'colck tomorrow
mornine. and a conference will he
h-ld w'th the employes at 3 o'clock.)
1 omorrow s camnei meeting nas oeen ;
canceuea o i e ores aeni may ae-
vte most of his time to the railroad
He cancel1ed 8evearI enRaee.
mpnt8 today that he niiR,)t have the
fullest opportunity to talk with the
two sides.
MENICAN LABORERS ENTER.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LAKEDO. Tex.. Aug. 14. Four hun
dred and thirty-two Mexican labor
ers were adTitted into the United
Rtfltptt hv tmniitrrotmn nlltlinrii ies in-
Thpy arp fo bp pn rQutp
! to Texas cotton fields. This is the
l"?"1 """'r of Immigrants admit- i
I'u i" in- i inuMi niaif-H
in over a
voar
Denver Police Search for Bank Robber
DENVICR, Aug. 14. Denver, po lice tonight were searrhing for
Normal King, a trusty who esca ped from the county jail yester
day, in connection with the hold up and robbery of tlie First Na
tional Rank of Englewood. a su burb. According to the po'ice the
description of the robber tallies with king.
Rank officials assert that a ch eck disclosed the robber secured
359 which he forced H. R. Patt on. essistant cashier, to turn over
at the point of a revolver. The h oldup was witnessed by n woman
depositor who notified C. W. Se hern, a grocer in the same build
ing. Ry the time Seborn reached the bank the robber had es
caped In an automobile driven by Walter Whitman, chauffeur for a
Denver taxlcab company. Accord ing t othe Uolice Whitman said
the robber compelled him to dri ve to Nineteenth avenue and
Clarkson streets where he disap poured.
The police released Whitman after questioning him.
It ws said the robber had been identified from a picture !n
the police gallery as Norval King, convicted and sentenced to
jail on a charge of forgery bout a year ago. At that tme, he g:ive
his residence as Laramie, Wyoming.
C. INQUIRY NOT
THE: REMEDY" WILSON.
BOSTON, Aug. 14. An inquiry
by the interstate commerce com
mission into the threatened rail
road strike would not be a remedy
for the crisis at the present mo
ment, President Wilson said in a
letter received by President Chas.
F. Weed of the Boston Chamber
of Commerce today. The com
munication, dated August 11, fol
lows: "My dear Mr. Weed:
"Allow me to acknowledge the
receipt of your telegram of August
9th, conveying to me the vote of
the Boston Chamber of Ccmmerce
recommending that I be instruct
ed by Congress to ascertain the
facts in the pending railrcad con
troversy. "You need not doubt that the
full Importance and gravity of the
now acute controversy between
the railroads and their employes
has been a constant subject of
thought and ionference . with me,
or that I have been trying to
make sure that no means of as
sisting a settlement was over
looked. "There is no compulsion of law
available by which we could oblige
either party of the controversy
to await the findings of an in
quiry by the Interstate Commerce
Commission and it seems to me
that such an inquiry is no remedy
at the moment.
"As I write conferences are in
progress in New York between
both parties to the controversy
and the federal board of media
tion and conailiation, and I am
hourly awaiting a " report from '
those conferences before deter
mining what is my duty.
"Sincerely yours,
(Signed) "WOODROW WILSON."
E BOOK OUT
0. S. PROTESTS
REJECTED .
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14.-The third
edition of he American White Hook
pontainjng tabulate(, copjt38 of cor.
respondent exchanged by the state
tions. the substance of which has not
" "" uxiu.uiy
for ,ne fir!,, tinlp so"p of the momo-
ntnuum eieanng wun armea merchant
men. the presence of allied cruisers
off American ports and other sub
jects. Secretary Lansing's suggestion that
merchantnient be disarmed is shown
to have been firmly rejected by all
of the allied powers, the liritish em
bassy, in a memorandum dated March
23. Ktimminz up their position J.y say
ing the allies are "unable to agree
that upon a non-guaranted German
promise, human life may be surren
dered defenseless to the mercy of an
enemy who in circumstancs of this
kind, as in
many others, lias shown
himself to be both faithless and law
less."
L. C.
1
UNCLE SAM TESTS NEW GARB FOR AERO SQUADRON OX BORDER; !
AIRMEN HEARING ARCTIC ZONE COATS
-
f" J, J " !.'LBr.ffl'VnrA'ff'"i"""i""" " '..Lmm -t"!:-
I -i.fWiut 1 48
1 v
Protecting coals worn by airmen on Mexican
CapL Benjamin D. Foulois. com- 'trying to find one that will fill all re -
mandinp the army's first aero squad- quiicr ents for airmen. Reindeer,
ron at Fort Sam Houston, Su i An- buffalo, ar .is fcii.l ve ions other ma-
tonio, Texas, has been experimenting- terials have ln-n trie;! wiih more or
for some time with various uniforms, , lecs sacccis. Wi.cn in acioplaue ,
STRAIGHT SHOT If
DEPUTY SHERIFF
John Bright Only Used Five
Bullets to Fut Away Two
Mexicans. Officer's Wound
in Right Leg Impriving.
GLEESON, Aug 14. John Bright, .
the deputy sheriff of Courtland who
?;".-"nfedei.nJLhe flgl-l htW?.
is in the hospital here and this morn
ing was resting easy. The wound in
his right leg is doing nicely. The ball
entered the fleshy part of the leg
and just chipped the top of the bone.
Dr. Stroud slates that it will not he
long before Bright will be able to be
about.
In conversation iwlth your corre
spondent yesterday Mr. Bright made
the following statement regarding the
affair: "I was notified about 9
o'clock that two Mexicans had been
seen coming out of liie back window
of the Davis cabin. I went there and i
found out that the place had been
emereu ana inai iu mamiuhih , a
watch and a few other articles had
been aaken. I also learned that the
Mexicans had taken across the coun
try in the hills east of the Leadville
property. I got my horse and started
across the -hills to try and locate them.
I went up through the hills and finally,
saw them starting from the hills in j
the direction of the McKinney ranch.'
I started after them and had reached
a point about thirty to forty steps
from them. I got off my horse and
said to them in Spanish that I wanted
them and for them to come to me
one at a time and give up the guns
that they had. Tho Tagrer of the
two Mexicans started toward me and
had come a distance of about ten
steps when he threw a ceit which lie
was carrying over his left arm and
at the same time drawing his six
shooter and saying, 'ves. you Gringo.
I have rot a gun." Just at this mo
ment I fired at him and he fell. The
smaller Mexican fired just as his
partner leu ann lie im me m u-
1 leu, ann ro'iiuie ei, im-u m iu
other nnd he fell, but relied over and
heeun to shoot at me aeain. I emptied
my gun at him and then started t"
ret awn. I walked little ways and
then fe'.l and no I fell the little fellow
''art reloaded bis gun and shot at me
twiep pnd I th"n managed to pet lin
end walk a little further away. I
went toward tl I.eMviHe rtmn for
assistance. I fainted two or three
t'mes while on the wav un therp and
it took me ho an hour. I should
i-iios. to mnke the mile. I met som
man rt" askd who shot nie "nd
I toM him and told h'm Mint ti Mex
icans were down there and both down
rr the rimd hut was not sure they
were dend nnd to be careful. I ws
then brought over here to the ins-;
pll." i
The bodies of the two Mexicans
were bronrht into Co.irflnnd an n ;
ro-"n"r' hirv cmnnncled "tid thevi
hro-ht in " verdict hnt thv cnme
, i,r Hnth" ft fhe hands of tep.itv:
Sheriff John Prl"ht while in the ncr-j
ferm"n-e ef his nntv An examination ,
rf the hn,UP both of the deee-sed ,
i.n.nl thnt Ik-v " ere both battle-j
-erred veterans Th smMler one,
l.n no less than four old bullet marks
on hi'i bndv. while the ohtrr one "! .
nnTprr Vnife wM'ndx on vrWiis
trapo'ers In thnt l.wtitv -o f.,r"
no one has been "hie to identifv litem, j
I'i'-'nres have been tken of the)
i.nctiea and an ef'ort will be md to1
M,.nt'fv them. They were buried In'
Court land yesterday afternoon.
QUEEN MINES DOWN t
FOR SEVERAL HOURS.
When a valve on the steam
ripe at the Copper Queen power
plant blew out yesterday evening
at 5:00 o'clock all p'jwcr used 'n j
the various Queenff mines had to
be shut off, and as a r;-sul". a
very small portion of the men
were aole to work.
At a few of the shafis jnie of
the men had already been lower-
, ed when the power went off and
orders were sent out stating that
the shift would not work. The
Southwest mine was the only
Queen mine ia the canm which
Vi.jrl;Pd fu,, fort.e The Mn na(i
, , ,ork wh .
rder came out. However, the
power plant force had things in
shiD shane hv 9:30 o'clock with
the air and power jn for the use
of the men who went to wcrk.
LIVINGSTON PLEA
CHANGED TO GUILTY
SENTENCE DEFERRED
Chet Livingston Pleads Guilty i
on Two Counts. Other De-1
fendants Arraigned. Super7
. i . n i
visore Arirint Riirliot
viaurs vaupi ouagei.
TOMBSTONE. Aug. 14 (Special) )
The case of the State vs. Chet Liv
ingston was set for trial this morn
ing but the defendant came into court
and changed his plea from not guilty
to guilty on two charges and an order
v!-s entered allowing him to go on the I
furnishing of a tl,o0 cash bond. He j
will be sentenc ed at the same time t
that his brother is upon their return
from New York. The bond of each in
the su mof $1,000 cash was filed with
the clerk this afternoon.
The return of the sheriff of the
special venire ordered this morning
contained the following names: Wil-
jjam j,utlf.y
James Lamb. J. B. Parks.
E. H. Reeves. Jack Cramer. Barney
Reynolds, Archie Chisholm. C. W.
Drew, Lou Woolery: J. A. Fitch. Jay
Gibson, R .A. Davis, Fred Goodwin,
and Steve Moore.
It is understood that Mrs. Frank
Hellman of Douglas will go to Phoe
nix during the present week and en
deavor to have Governor Hunt pardon
her husband from the county jail
from the sentence that was pronounc
ed against him a few days ago.
Gompers Branded As
'
WASHINGTON. Aug. 14. Pre sident Samuel Gompers of the
American Federation of Labor, w as characterized as a "public: nui
sance." by Senator Sherman of I llinois. in a digression today
from a senate speech on the ship ping bill.
"Ther" is more tyrannical, out mgeous Injustice than that of
leaders who live on the sweat of other peoples' brows." said Sen
ator Sherman. "Mr. Gompers is a public nuisance."
Referring to the Indianapolis a nd l-os Angeles dynamite trials.
Senator Sherman declared the fed eration president had "prostituted
the cause of labor by usiiu; fun ds of laboring men for the delense
of those criminals "
"Mr. Gompers never apologized to anybody" he continued, "but
it was the most fortunate thing that ever happened to Mr. Gen pers
that he himself esc aped indie tm ent on these same charges.
"I've been owing this to Mr. G oinpers fur some time and I'm
handing it to him now and I'm responsible politically and personally.
IN SUMMER WEATHER I
1
border.
rises to an elevation of 10.000 feet,,
even the carburetor Incomes coated
with frost, and the aviator must have
.-:ome protection against the chillJ
winis. J
The Army
(Special to the Review)
WASHINGTON. I). ('.. Aug. U. Ar
my orders:
Major Weston V. Chamberlain.
Medical corps, detailed retiring board
l Fort Sam Houston, vice Col. William
In. flrnxhv. Medical Cnrrw
.
Chaplain Milton O. H?ebe. Twelfth j
Cavahy, relieved Fort Rarrancss.
First Lieut. Augustine A. Holfman,
I Infantry. First Lieut. Joseph L Top-
pa:u. Infantry, Second Lieut. Ciari r.c e
D. Lang. Twelfth Cavalrv. report
: board at Eacle Pass, examination for
transfer to Field Artillery.
Resignations Captain Hubbard N.
' Bradley, Medic al Corps. Michlaan Na ; The House provi!,Uin ,or the ,.rP3.
jtional Guard and Second Lieut. Wal- J tion oI a Uriff comn,issiou mas ap-
ter H. Lillard. Eighth Infantry Massa- ! pr0Ved with a Senate Cjmmittee
chusetts National Guard, accepted. 'amendment increasina salaries of the
j Following officers. Medical Reserve I commissioners from JT.500 to $10,000
Corps, to Philippine department: a year. The commission would con
I First Lieutenants Thomas G. Holmes, sist of six members i'j be appointed
! Mordecia R. Bren. Paul H. Wagner, j by the President np more than three
: Miller E. Preston. Howard E. Harman.j of whom shall be members of the
Second Lieuts. Michael F. IiavU. j same political party.
. Sixth Infantry to Fort S?m Houston.: In view of th- adoption last night
examination for detail aviation sec -
tion. First
Lieutenants Walter G.
Kllner" and Harold S M.irtin. avia-
tion officers relieved first aero squad-
. ,.. , , i i i v -
i ron to Mineo a. Long Island. N. ., re-
... V
port to First Lieut. Joseph L. Carber-
l ry. avialom officer: rirst Lieut. Ar-
tnur k. i nnstie. aviation oincer re-
Hever- first aero squadron, to Chicago,
Ills.: Report to First Lieut. Joseph C.
Morrow, Jr., aviation officer. Second
Lieutenant Charles L. Kilburn. trans-
ferred Third Field Artillery to Coast
Artillery, second Lieut. I.ouis A. Craig,
transfened coast Aitill-ry to Field
Artillerv. Lieut. Kilbur-i "to Fort How-
an!. Lieut. Craig to Sec ond Pattal-
ion. Fourth Field Artillerv. .
( apt. jonn iioirman. i niMppme :
scouts, retired, detailed rs ecting
cr.iartermaster to Calexico. Calif. First
Lieut. Fr?nk B. Kobes. .Fourteenth in
fantry report board - Douglas, Arit,
examination for transfer to c':valry.
Following officers, medical reserve
corps, to Hawaiian department: First construction of 157 ships In a three
Lieutenants Bernhardt K. Stumberg. year pfjram. including four battle
William A. Bovd. Philip R siter. , ships and four battle cruisers next
Thos H Scott William E. Kramer. i.vcar and an enlisted strength of 74.-
First Llept. Paul E. Bow-rs. Medical '
Reserve Corps, relieved southern de- t
parttrent. Major M. A. W. Shockley
and Captain George 1. Peed. MeeMcal ;
Ccrps. relieved present temporary !
duty and will return to their shHions ;
"Public Nuisance"'' n mo
tiine-killius discuss.-n to await t
m MILLIONS
PROPOSED IN
BILL FROM
CAUCUS
Democratic Proposal, From
Caucus, Proposes Estimates
to Raise $205,000,000. In
crease of Nearly Six Mil
lion. WINES AND UQUORS
ARE HIT IN MEASURE
Absentee Representatives Re
turn to Fighting Naval BilL
Time-Killing Discussion in
Senate on Revenue Meas
ure. i
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Aug. 14 The ad
ministration revenue bill as amended
by the Senate finance committee was
approved late tonight by the Demo
' cratic Senate caucus and will be re
j ported by Wednesday. Leaders esti
jmate. will yield $;05.ou0.000 annually.
I an increase of $3.7O.Ooo over the
I estimated revenue as it passed the
1 house.
j As approved the tax ou sill wine
I De at the rate of 8 r cmt J"r
! '" gallon, and the tax Vn grape
braudy and wine spirits used in the
fortihration of -sweet wines ill be
1 55 cents per proof gullon as against
10 cents proposed by the House bilL
On champagne and sparkling wine a
tax of three cents WjuUI be levied on
each half pint: on artificially carbon-
' aUJ wine -i cents per halt pint and
on each bottle or other container of
I cordials or similar I'jmpoumls IS
. rents ner half Dint.
' of the stump tax 'jn stock of corpora
: tlons t aut us voleu lo eliminate
! . V. LIIa
i slanlP lax on express anu .rnM
i f ladi,,K a,lJ on acJ
phone messages,
;r , ... j , .
Several partv ltadcrs waged a los
ing tiht ai-aiust the dyestuffs tariff.
In approving the proi'jsal. howeer.
, the cauous tncluJed an amendment
j wi,icn does not become effective until
i tv,e ,.l0;iU of ti,e war. it always was
; provided that all existing duties upon
I dyestuffd shall be suspended during
! the present war.
i '
j RETURN TO FIGHT.
j WASHINGTON. Aug. H. Scores of
I absentee representatix es returned .
! the capital touiuht to enter the bht
ion the $:;!". Sou.OlH naval bill, which
begins in the House tomorrow.
President Wilson and Secretary
: Daniels have stood squarely behind
! the larger authorization.
Chairman Padgett, of the naval com
mittee, will mute the House concur
in the increases, which povride for
400. ,
Denux ratic Leader Kite hin, who all
along has opposed the administration's
big army and navy measurc expects
to speak tomorrow against the con-
fpn,m.e report.
TIME KILLING DEBATE.
WASHINGTON. Aug. II Debate on
he
I report of the finance committee on
1 revenue legislation. Republican Lead
' ers assured Senators in charge of the
shipping bill that they would asree
I to a vote em it the n.ment the rev
'enue bill reached the Senate but not
! before that time. They will not dis
! pose of it and permit other m.euerJ
j to intervene.
I At no time Today were there mrr
than a dozen senators in the cham
ber while Republican spech in op
position to the ship bill were made.
Senators Weeks. Galliuger and Ster
ling declared it to be a step towar!
socialism and veritable deiiarat.'jn of
war against the American ship build
ing Industry. Senator Sherman at
tacked it as a dangerous step toward
government ownership.
