? nis tadhfcttTj fttjLfj( wvv XwvX 4 p. m. city edition I :i
NEW YORKQUOTATIONS. IJ l l P il F I l 1 11 I l l l fl l l i TEN PAGES
$26.00S27.OO. r ' BJ X Tonight and Wednesday; Not Much H
I - . Change in Temperature. H
. 2 FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER.
!lS'Xth YearN' 195, . ce Pfve Cents. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 15, 1916: ' Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden, Utah
j Eight-Hour Day Proposal Made by I
j Italians Enter' Tofrnioo sncf "Move Rapidly On Trieste
,
I RAPID ADVANCE OF RUSSIAN
ARMIES IN OALICIA CONTINUES
j "
j Troops Crossing Banks of Rivers and Progressing Along the
5 Stripa Italians Making Great Strides Capture of Tol-
) mino of Great Importance Austrian Fleet Leaves
i Triest Vienna Reports Successes in the Car-
I pathians Violent Fighting Continues
on the Western Front,
i
j Paris, Aug. 15, 4:03 p. m. Italian troops have entered
the suburbs of Tolmino which is under continuous shell fire,
according to a dispatch to La Liberte from Turin today. The
Austrians, says the dispatch, are evacuating the city.
London, Aug. 15, 4:35 p. m. According to a message
from Buchs today, the southern and western suburbs of Tol
mino are burning and the fall of the city is expected at any
: moment.
Geneva, Aug. 15, via Paris, 5:45 p. m. The Italian ad
vance guard moving southeast from Gorizia is within 1 1 3 miles
of Triest, whence the greater part of the Austrian fleet has
5 sailed for an unknown destination, according to a telegram
: from Buchs, Switzerland today.
I Emperor "William is again on the
1 eastern front where the Austro-Ger-man
armies are struggling desperately
f to withstand the heavy strokes of
if the Russians In Gallcla and Volhynla.
I In the latter region the opposing
1 forces apparently" are at a standstill,
f but in Gallcla the rapid ownwnrd
f sweep of General Bruslloff is continu
! ing.
j Petrograd today reports the Rus
i slans crossing to the west banks of
the Zlota Llpa river at some points.
Further south General Letchltzky is
continuing his advance below Hallcz.t
The British war office today re
ports the clearing of the Germans
from nearly all the trenches In the
Pozieres region, In which they gained
i a footing Sunday. The French in
the Verdun region, according to
'Paris, have recaptured German
trenches in the Vaux-Fleury sector.
Rome announces further advances
I for the Italians in their campaign on
the Carso plateau, southeast of
Gorizia. i
The Italian navy has lost one of
j Its big dreadnoughts, according to a,
1 Turin dispatch, which tells of the I
! bfowing up of the 22,000 ton Leonar
do Da Vinci In Taranto harbor, as the
, result bf a fire. Of the crew 300
were drowned.
j The Italians are making rapid
I strides In their drive on Austrian ter
ritory. North of Gorizia they have
reached the suburbs of Tolmlna, 18
1? miles northeast of Gorizia, according
I' to unofficial messages which report
J the city on fire and in process of
evacuation by tho Austrians. South
east of Gorizia, special despatches as
;' sert, the Italian advance guard Is
" within 13 miles of Triest.
S The greater part of the Austrian
fleet is reported to have left the har
I bor of Triest for an unknown des-
tlnatlon. The Austrian naval base of
i Pola lies on the Adriatic 55 miles
; southeast of Triest.
i Tolmino, a place of only some 2,000
) inhabitants before tho war, has been
! of chief Importanco during the period
j of hostilities because of the strong
, bridgehead position established there
1 by the Austrians. This bridgehead,
I'; considered generally next in Impor
tance to that of Gorizia, has persis
tently resisted Italians attacks.
IJ
Rapid Russian Advance.
Petrograd, Aug. 15. Via London,
1:30 p. m. Tho Russian advance in
Gallcla continued. Russian troops
are crossing to the western banks of
the Zlota Llpa and Bystorltza Solot-1
vlna and are advancing along the
upper Stripa, the war office an
nounced today.
The announcement says:
"On the evening of August 14 a
German albatross apocared over the
town of NesvlJ. A Russian aviator
drove it to earth. Tho wounded pilot
and the observer wero captured.
"Our advance westward In the re
gion of the upper Stripa is continu-
lng. On tho rivers Zlota Llpa and
Bystrltza-Solotvlna our troops are
crossing successfully to the western
banks.
i Turks Arc? Retreating.
"Caucasian front: Our offensive
; in the region of SakkJz, Persia, re
sulted in our capture of a very strong
Turkish position In the vicinity of
this town. The enemy, pursued by
our cavalry, Is retTeatlnghurriedly to
the south.
I "On the Baltic sea on Monday morn
ing two of our hydroplanes undertook
a daring raid on the enemy's aero
drome near Lake Agern in Courland.
' Notwithstanding a bombardment by
L anti-aircraft guns and a counter at-
tack by seven German machines, our
aviators dropped -bombs - successfully
Vn the enemy sheds.
Many bullets struck our machines.
One of the enemy machines was
struck' and turned over in the air,
falling to the ground enveloped in
smoke. Two others alighted on the
sea, having received injuries. Our
hydroplanes returned safely."
Russians Stoutly Resisted.
Berlin, Aug. 15, via London. 5:02 p.
m. -Austro-German troops under Gen
eral Count von Bothmer, are offering
determined resistance to the Russian
advance along the upper Stripa in
northern Galicia, They have com
pletely repulsed strong attacks in the
Zborow-Konlnchy sector, according to
the official statement of the war office
today.
The statement says:
"Front of Field Marshal Von Hin
denburg: All Russian attacks against
the Luh and Graberka sectors south
of Brody failed.
"Front of Archduko Charles Fran
'cls: The army of Von Bothmer com
jpletely repulsed strong attacks, some
of which were repeated frequently in
tho Zborow-Koninchy sector, on tho
high road leading from Brzezany and
Potuory to Kozowa and .to tho west
of Monasterzyska with very heavy
losses to the Russians."
Austrians Report Successes.
Berlin, Aug. 15 By wireless to
Sayville. The Austrian official state
ment of August 12 received here from
Vienna says the attack by Germany
and Austro-Hungarian troops in the
Carpathians is progressing success
fully and that 700 Russians were cap
tured August 12.
In, the Italian theater, the state
ment adds, several strong attacks by
the Italians on the heights of Gorizia
were, repulsed, the Austrians taking
n number of prisoners.
A further official statement giving
additional details of damage inflicted
by Austrian aircraft says:
"On the night of August 12 the air
ship Bheds at Compoloto near Venice
werefcompletely destroyed by a naval
onloTifl nmmdron.
"Simultaneously ianother jnaval
squadron bombarded successfully an
aeroplane shed at Gorgo (Borgo) bat
teries at the mouth of the Isonzo and
the Andrla works (near Monfalcone).
Several full hits were obtained and n
dozen fires broke out.
"By a third squadron several full
hits kwere scored on batteries at the
mouth of .the Isonzo and on military
objects at Pleres and San Canzlno.
All the aeroplanes returned undam
aged' r
Emperor Goes to East Front.
BofHn, Aug. 15. Via London, 3:30
n m Having returned from the Som
me region Emperor William has gone
to tho eastern front.
Tne emperor has again loft for
the eastern front," says an official
statement Issued today, "after having
vMte'd. toward the end of his stay of
several days on the western front, the
nrmy'of the Crown Prince and accom
nVninA by the oommandor-in-chlef ,
SSoS units behind the battle front."
Iltallan 8tenmshlp Sunk.
London, Aug. 15, 1:30 p. m.
Lloyd's reports the sinking of the
o BOO ton Italian steamship Tetl In
the ; Mediterranean. Port of the crow
was landed at Genoa.
AUstrJana Bombard Italians.
Berlin. Aug. 15, by wireless to Say
. Tilieiu5trian naval aeroplanos on1
CAPTURE OF TRIESTE WILL BE GREATEST PRIZE OP WAR
Upper: General view of Trieste from
waterfront. Lower: Gun to be
used against Trieste.
Trieste has all the earmarks of a
modern city, having all tho conveni
ences of a great city. Its population
is over two hundred thousand in nor
mal times, and this number has been
increased during the war. The Aus
trians call it the Hamburg' of South
Germany. Tho majority of tho in
habitants are Italians, and are in
tensely in sympathy -with tho allied
nations. The one language of the
city of Trieste is Italian, and al
though the Austrian government has
for years tried to make the city an
Austrian one, they have found it a
Well-nigh impossible task.
Trieste has a very fine harbor, and
is a flourishing modem seaport. It
is built in a crescent shape somewhat
like the city of New Orleans.
the night of August 12 bombarded ef
fectively batteries at the mouth of the
Isonzo and aeroplane stations at Bor
go and Monfalcone, according to an
admiralty statement from Vienna to
day. French Troops Advancing.
Paris, Aug. 15, 12:30 p. in. French
troops captured German trenches on
a -front about 3 yards long and 100
yards deep north of the Chapel of
Sainte Fine, at the intersection of the
Fleury and Vaux roads on the right
bank of the Meuse in the Verdun
sector last night, says the war state
ment today.
On tho Somme front the French ar
tillery was very active at Belloy,
Estres and Llhons. Elsewhere the
night was calm.
The statement says:
"On the Somme front our artillery
displayed great activity in the sectors
north of the river, south of Belloy
nnrl TT'of t--c q n el TinT-t li nf T.JlinTIK.
South of Belloy a German reconnolter
ing partv was dispersed by our rlflo
fire.
"North of the Aisne an enemy de
tachment after a lively bombarjit,
penetrated a small salient of our lines
northwest of Bcaulno. It was driven
out by an Immediate counter attack.
French Carry German- Trenches.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun front) a series of minor ac
tions was carried out brilliantly by
our grenadiers north of the Chapel of
Sainte Fine, enabling us to carry, some
portions of German tronches on a
front of 400 yards and a depth of
about 100 yards. The enemy attempt
ed to recapture them by a counter at
tack which was broken up by our cur
tains of fire,
"The bombardment continued with
Considerable violence in the secors of
Fleury and Vaux le Chapitre. Every
where else the night was calm."
British Retake Ground.
London, Aug. 15. 3: -10 p. m. Nearly
all of the remaining trenches north
west of Pozieres, on the Somme front
In which the Germans gained a footing
on Sunday, have been re-taken, the
war office announced today.
The announcement follows:
"As a result of local fighting north
west of Pozieres during these two
days we have re-taken nearly the
whole of tho remainder of the
trenches in which the enemy gained a
footing early yesterday. Last night
wo also forced entry Into the enemy's
trenches near Mouquot farm, return
ing to our lines with eleven pris
oners. , .
"On our right flank two attacks by
small hostile detachments to raid our
trenches were repulsed with loss to
the enemy.
"Northwest of Hulluch the enemy
exploded a small mine. We occupied
the center. Last night a feinted raid
on the enemy trenches south of Arm
entieres caused much commotion in
enemy lines, of which our artillery
took full advantage."
Violent Fighting on the Somme.
Berlin, Aug. 15, via London, 5:05 p.
m. After attacks of the greatest vio
lence on the Sommo front, continuing
until late last night, the British ob
tained a footing in first line German
tronches on the Thlepval-Pozieres
front, tho war office announced to
day. The announcement says:
YeBterday afternoon tho British- re'-
v
peated their attacks from the Ovillers-Bazantin-le-Petlt
line and continued
them with the greatest violence far
Into the night. They again obtained
a foothold in the same section of
our first lino trenches on the Theip-val-Pozieres
front from which they
were repulsed yesterday morning.
Otherwise, all their numerous as
saults which followed each other at
short intervals, broke down -com-l
pletely with very sanguinary losses'
in front of our positions. The French
twice repeated their fruitless efforts
between Maurepas and Hem."
Artillery Battles Continue.
"Between tho Ancre brook and the
Somme and beyond this sector the ar
tillery battles have not yet ended.
"On the remainder of the front
there were no incidents of import
ance, apart from rather lively fight
ing southeast of Armenieres, at cer
tain points in Artois and on the right
bank of the Meuse (Verdun front).
Canadians on Somme Front.
Ottawa, OnL, Aug. 15. The militia
department announced today that the
Canadian troops at the front have
been transferred from the Ypres sa
lient to the Somme. The troops com
prise four divisions. The announce
ment is taken to mean that the Ca
nadian havo been called upon to join
the British, Australian and New Zea
land troops in the great offensive on
the Somme front.
In the time they held tho Ypres sa
lient, tho Canadians' work was espe
cially defensive. They fought at St,
Jullen, St. Eloi, Zillebeke, Hooge and
Festubert with total casualties or
30,000.
Balkan Front Fight.
Berlin, Aug. 15, via London, 6:05
p. m. Another small engagement on
the Balkan front, of which there have
been several recently, has been
fought south of Lake Doiran, south of
Salonikl, tho war office announced
today.
"South of Lake Doiran" the state
ment says, "enemy forces consisting
of about a battalion attacked "Bulgar-
Inn rirlvnncn nnao rvUa otinnlr was
repulsed."
Austrians Suffer Reverses.
Rome, Aug. 15, via London, 3 p. m.
On the Carso plateau and to the
east of Gorizia, along the Isonzo front
the Austrians havo suffered furthor
reverses at the hands of the Ital
ians, today's official statement says.
Austrian Intrenchments In both these
regions wero captured.
The statement says:
"On tho CarBo during the night of
August 14 the gallant troops of tho
Eleventh Army corps repulsed several
counter attacks and attacked the en
emy's lines to the west of Sainte Gra
do and Monte Peclnka. Several sec
tions of tho enemy's trenches were
captured and 1414 prisoners including
31 officers wero taken.
"In tho hilly tract east of Gorizia,
after heavy fighting, wo carried other
hostllo entrenchments, taking 220
prisoners, of whom five were officers.
"On tho remainder of the front the
enemy made the usual demonstra
tions against our positions. Ho was
unsuccessful everywhere.
"Enemy nircraft dropped bombs on
Monfalcone, RoncI, Salute Canzlano
and Pierls. No casualties or damage
resulted.
Germans Will Use Zeppelins
Against England to Cause
Remembrance of Bara
long Case.
WHITE BOOK RECORD
Government Intends to Make
English People Atone for
Their Cruel Deeds.
Berlin, Aug. 15, wireless to Say
ville. Threats of more destructive
Zeppelin raids against England in re
prisal for "crimes committed by
British seamen" are contained in a
White Book regarding the Baralong
case transmitted by the government
to the reichstag. Members of t he
crew of the Baralong, a British pa
trol boat, were reported to havo killed
Germans from a submarine sunk by
the British a year ago. The govcrn
Iment's purpose Is quoted as follows
by the Overseas News agency:
"Airships will be used against Eng
land within the limits of the law of
nations and without any other re
gard. Every airship which throws
destructive bombs on London or other
defended towns, or on towns which
contain establishments of a military
character shall cause England to re
member tho Baralong case."
White Book Record.
The White Book contains official
German and British documents. The
final report, according to a state
ment given out today by the Over
seas News agency, says:
"The Gorman government, replying
to tho declarations of tho British gov
ernment in regard to the German
memorandum of January 10, 1913, on
tho Baralong case (In which Germany
rejected tho proposal to submit the
case to a neutral board), said It had
decided on account of the British gov
ernment's attitude that it was impos
sible to continue negotiations. At
the same tlmo the government an
nounced it would take reprisals of a
nature corresponding with the provo
cation, adding:
" 'Of course the government has de
clined to respond to the crimes com
mitted by the British seamen by car
rying out similar reprisals; for in
stance tho shooting of British pris
oners of war. But German airships
will convince the English people that
Germany has the means of preventing
from going unatoned tho cruelties of
the officers and crew of the Bara
long.' "
--
DANIELS WELCOMES CTVTUANS.
Washington, Aug. 15. Messages
from Secretary Danlola welcoming
more than 2,000 civilians participating
in the naval training cruise for na
tional defense wero published today
4 upon all tho ships,
Hon lemmtate to i I
Eight-hour Day Proposition May Be Referred Back to General
Committee Judge Chambers of Mediation Joins in Dis
cussion Men Leave White House Expecting to
Meet President Again Tomorrow "Nothing
Done and Nothing Undone" Is Garretson
Report There May Be Agreement on "
One of Compromise Proposals.
' '
Washington, Aug. 15. W. G. Lee of the employes'
committee, said that both the workmen and employers had sev
eral proposals and counter proposals before them and that
both probably would see President Wilson, tomorrow and give
their decision. fl
"I am very hopeful," said Mr. Lee. This dispelled the air
of pessimism which had prevailed when the conference began.
After the representatives of the employes had been in
cenference with the president for more than an hour, Judge jH
William L. Chambers of the federal mediation board, was sent
for and joined in the mediation.
"Nothing is done and nothing is undone. We see the
president again possibly tomorrow," said A. B. Garretson,
spokesman for the railway employes as the men left their con- jH
ference with President Wilson.
Washington, Aug. 15. As the
heads - of the railroad brotherhoods
assembled at the White House at 3
o'clock this afternoon for their sec
ond conference with President Wil
son, there were expressions of doubt
among the officials close to the situa
tion over whether the men would ac
cept the proposal of the railroads
made to the president earlier in the
day by the managers' committee.
In effect the railroads proposed, it
was understood, to grant the basic
eight-hour dav and leave the questio.i
of its application to be decided by
some commission.
The heads of the brotherhood said,
before going to the president's con
ference, that they themselves could
not pass upon such a proposition but
would have to refer it back to tho
general committee of union heads In
New York.
Brotherhood Leaders Less Hopeful.
As they entered the president's
room, however, the union leaders
gave outward evidence of pessimism.
"Let us pray," was the cryptic re
sponse of A. B. Garretson, head of the
conductors, when asked wnat he
thought of the outcome.
"I hope to the Lord this conference
will be favorable," said Lee, of the
conductors.
It was apparent that the feeling
of optimism which "prevailed at yes
terday's conferences had been dis
sipated. President Wilson, It was learned,
has many informal suggestions of
various kinds to make to both sides,
but up to the present has made little
progress.
Officials In close touch with the
situation, said late today, it was ap
parently a deadlock, although there
was still a possibility of an agree
ment. The (president, it was learned,
has used every argument at his com
mand to obtain concessions from both
sides.
No form of arbitration Is now under
consideration, members of the em
ployes committee declared. They said
there was a possibility that an agree
ment would bo reached on one of the
several compromise proposals under
consideration.
Settlement Seems Assured.
Washington, Aug. 15. Aftor tho
committee of railroad managers had
another conference with President
Wilson early today, became known
that a, proposal was under consider
ation by which the railroads would ac
cept the principle of an eight-hour day
and leave tho working out of Its ap
plication to the Interstate Commerce
Commission or some body 'formed for
the purpose.,
After an hour and a half of confer
ence with the president, the mana
gers' committee left the White House
by a side door hoping to evade ques
tioners. Ellsha Lee, the chairman,
said:
"Wo are entirely in tho president's
hands and have agreed with him that
he will make any statement."
Prospects Seem Good.
While tho managers were at tho
Whlto House the brotherhood leaders
conferred among themselves and
awaited the call for their confer
once. Tho general opinion among
them was that the president was put
ting the burden of averting a strike
up to the railroads and that tho pros
peotB for a settlement were good.
Having agreed practically to the
principle of arbitration, the brother
hoods leaders inclined to the view
that tho controversy could be settled
by tho railroads granting tho basic
eight-hour day and arbitrating the de
mands for time and a half for over
timo; or by eliminating the double
compensation features and having the
railroads mako a flat agreement to put
In the eight-hour day.
The attitude of tho managers as
they went to; the- White- House, was1
said to be one of yielding some
thing. Secretary Tumulty issued the fol
lowing statement:
"The president spent an hour and
a half this monilng with the repre
sentatlves of the railroad manage-
menL After the conference he said J
it was impossible as yet to report JM
on the results; all that he could say ,
was that a very candid and honest
discussion was in progress about a
practicablo bases of settlement."
President Must Meet Leaders.
Whether this plan can be worked 1
out will not be known until Presl- j
dent Wilson presents it to the broth- '
erhood leaders. The railroads are I
understood to be ready to concede the
principle of the eight-hour day, pro
viding concessions be made by the t
employes so too heavy a burden will n
not be placed upon the railroads. .
The men take the stand that they j
principally want the eight-hour day '
on conditions that it shall be enforced IH
whenever possible. The railroads aro IH
. said to believe it impossible to accept IH
! the eight-hour day unless a workable
; system of application can be built up.
Members of the managers' committee
; said thej' had no plans for the future
: and did not know whether they would i
bo called to the White House again. ,
The managers took the position that
the eight-hour day and the collateral
. issues are inseparable and that it jH
would not be practicable to accept the '
eight-hour day and submit the other ,
: question to arbitration. 'H
Representatives of the brotherhoods
heard of the proposal with Interest
but Insisted, however, that the propo
sition was not a new one.
None of the brotherhood officials
would commit himself on what the IH
attitude of the employes would bo
toward such a proposal, but they did
not appear optimistic over the llkeli- jH
hood of it proving acceptable.
It was pointed out by the employes' j
representatives, however, that If such j
a proposition were tendered in con-
crete form to them they could only ,
refer it to the general board, com
posed of 600 committee chairmen in
Now York.
Leaders Go to White House. (
Just before three o'clock the broth
erhood leaders moved to the White
House to renew their conferences
with the president who it was expect
ed would lay the railway managers'
proposal before them.
oo
FREIGHT TRAINS :
MEEHEADON i I
All Traffic Tied Up for Hours' H
Three Killed, Three Seri
ously Hurt.
Pittsburg, Pa., Aug. 15. Three
trainmen were killed, three seriously
Injured and four slightly hurt when JM
two heavy freight trains, eaclr drawn
bv two engines, came together in a
head-on collision on tho Pittsburg &
Wheeling division of the Baltimore &
Ohio railroad at Vance, Pa today.
All trafflo was tied up for sevoral
hours.
The dead are J. W. liustlco, en- 'H
gineer; C. D. Hutchinson and C. R,
Wright, firemen, all of PIttBburg.
CHEAPER BREAD.
Washington, Aug. 15. The Raine
-bill to repeal existing dutios on,'
mixed flour, said to bo designed to,
afford cheaper bread, was considerea
today bv the house ways and means
committee but.actign. nwpojrtponeflj jm
1 J
