BARKE DAILY TO
VOL. XX NO. 129.
UAH HE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, AUGUST U, 11)10.
I'll ICE, OXE ' CENT.
THE
'
rV
DREADNOUGHT
TURNEDONSIDE;
300 DROWNED
1JRANDEIS DECLINES
MEXICAN TASK
Tells President Wilson There is So Much
Work Ahead of Supreme Court He
Feels He Must Decline Ap
pointment. Washington, I). C, Aug. 13. Associate
Justice Louis D. Braiideis of tin1 supreme
court informed President Wilson In t
Italian Navy Meets with a;"1' '"lt ' '" ";-
Incss before the court In would be unable
Severe Loss, but It Is
Thought That the Leonar
do Devinci Can Be Right
ed and Eventually Put
Back into Commission
ACCIDENT HAPPENED
IN TARANTO HARBOR
Fire Broke Out in the Ves
sel's Kitchen, and Before
the Magazines Could Be
Flooded and the Vessel
Beached a Great Explo
sion Listed the Ship
Talis, Aug. 15. The Italian dread
nought Leonardo Devinci caught fire and
blew up in the harbor of Taranto, Italy,
and 300 of the crew were drowned, says
a Turin despatch to Petit Journal. The
date of the disaster was given only as a
day in August.
The fire, says the despatch, was discov
ered in the dreadnought's kitchen and
spread rapidly. The captain ordered the
magazines Hooded and tried to beach the
battlechip. One of the magazines ex
ploded before this could be done, and the
vessel turned over on the other side.
A large number of the crew were thrown
into the sea. It is believed that the
battleship can be righted.
to uccept the president's designation to
serve on the joint commission which will
attempt to solve tho dillicultics between
thn t nited States anil Mexico.
dust ice Brundeis conferred with thi
president and Attorney! ieneral (iregory
lata in th day ami the question of the
justice's accepting was pine over thor
oughly. Later the following letter from
Justice Brundeis to the president was
made public at the White House:
"Mv Dear Mr. President:
"1 appreciate the opportunity for high
service which membership -n the Mexi
can commission would present. Hut upon
consultation with the chief justice I rind
the state of the business of the su
preme court at the present time to be
such that it is my duty not to undertake
this important constructive task."
The giving out of Justice Brandcis let
ter was tho first formal announcement
that he had been offered the post, al
though it had been known definitely that
he and Secretary Lane were two of the
three men selected bv the presi
dent for membership on the commission.
The name of the third man has not been
made public.
SHIFT ATTACK
TO VERDUN LINE
French Push Germans Back
on Right Bank of
the Meuse ,
CAPTURE TRENCHES
ON 300-YARD FRONT
be driven back by tha Ottoman forces
and that in Armenia, north of Bitlis, th
Turks have made a further advance.
The British torpedo boat destroyer
Iioo, has been sunk by a (iertuan tub'
marine,
Gain Was Made at Intersec
tion of the Fleury and
Vaux Roads
MOTORMAN DEAD;
PASSENGER HURT
BRITISH LOSE WAR VESSEL
Torpedo Boat Destroyer Lassoo Torpe
doed by German Submarine.
Berlin, via London, Aug. 15. A Ger
man submarine torpedoed the British tor
pedo boat destroyer Lassoo Sunday morn
ing, according to an admiralty statement
issued yesterday.
It is announced also that between Aug.
2 and 10, five British and French steam
ers and 10 British and French sailing
craft were sent to the bottom by a Ger
man submarine.
The official statement says:
"One of our submarines Sunday morn
ing torpedoed in the British channel the
British torpedo boat destroyer Lassoo.
Another official announcement says:
"One of our submarines torpedoed in
the channel between the 2d and 10th of
August seven British and three French
sailing vessels and three British and two
French steamers."
Fred Roux of Rochester, N. II., Killed in
Trolley Car Accident Near South
Berwick, Me. Car Left
Track on Crossing.
South Berwick. Me., Aug. lo. Fred
Roux of Rochester, X. H., a uiotorman,
was crushed to death ami David Dube
of Boston, a passenger, sustained a brok
en ankle when an open car left the track
at a Great Works crossing. After run
ning 100 feet on the ground the car was
driven into a bank.
Paris, Aug. lo. French troops captured
German trenches on a front about 300
yards long und 10O yards deep north of
the chapel of Sainte Fine, at the inter
section of the Fleury and Vaux roads on
the right bank of thn Meuse in the Ver
dun sector, says the war office state
ment to-dav.
AUSTRIAN TRENCHES
ON TWO FRONTS
ARE SEIZED
GOMPERS "PUBLIC NUISANCE"
FAVORABLE TO SALE
Lower Danish House Votes to Make the
Deal.
. Copenhagen, via London, Aug. 15, The
Folkething, or lower house of the Danish
Parliament, yesterday voted in favor of
selling the Danish West Indies to the
United States, if a plebiscite favored the
sale. The vote was 62 for the proposition
to 44 against it, one member being denied
a vote and six being absent.
Having taken this action, the Folke
thing took up the question of ratification
of the treaty itself, providing for the sale
of the islands. The number of votes cast
for and against the treaty was the same
as that upon the question of the sale.
The discussion in the Folkething turned
upon the question whether the plebiscite
or elections, or both the election and the
plebiscite, shall take place before reach
ing a settlement on the sale of the is
lands. Premier Zahle stated that if the
elections should be necessary, the govern
ment would have to ask the American
government if the matter could be post
poned till the newly elected Rigsdag
meets jn November.
Declares Senator Sherman in Debate on
Shipping Bill.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 15. President
Samuel Gompers of the American Fed
eration of Labor was characterized as a
'public nuisance" by Senator Sherman of
Illinois, in a digression yesterday from a
Senate speech on the shipping bill.
"There is no more tyrannical, outrage
ous injustice than that of leaders who
live on the sweat of other people's
brows," said Senator Sherman. "Mr.
Gompers is a public nuisance."
Referring to the Indianapolis and Los
Angeles dynamite trials Senator Sherman
declared the federation president had
"prostituted the cause of labor hy using
funds of laboring men for the defense of
these criminals.''
"Mr. Gompers never apologized to any
body," he continued. "But it was the
most fortunate thing that ever happened
to Mr. Gompers that he himself escaped
indictment on these same charges,
"I've been owing this to Mr. Gompers
for some time and I'm handing it to him
now, and I'm responsible politically and
personally.
Official Statement at Rome Telia of Aus
trian Reverses on Carso Plateau
East of Goritzia and Along
the Isonio River.
lie. me, Aug. l.r. On the Carso plateau
to the east of Goritzia and along the ls-
onzo front the Austrian have suffered
further reverses at the hands of the Ital
ians, says the war office statement. Tho
Austrian entrenchments in both these re
gions have been captured.
BRITISH REGAIN
MOST OF TRENCHES
Drive Germans Back in Region Northeast
of Pozieres, Where They Had Gained
a Footing on Sunday.
London, Aug. 15. Xearlv all the re-
Lmaining trenches northwest of Pozieres
bn the Somme front, in which the Ger
mans gained a footing on Sunday, have
been retaken, the war office announced
to-dav.
ROCKEFELLER PLAN
CALLED FAILURE
ROBBED BY AUT0ISTS
Maine Man Met with Reverse of the
Usual Order.
Brunswick, Me., Aug. 15. Chief of Po
lice Stetson was notified last night that
a man and a woman who were traveling
by automobile had held up Isaac Henry
Snow, a well known fish warden, and
robbed him of $5!, which Mr. Snow later
recovered.
Mr. Snow was standing on the corner
of Harpswell and Bath streets, waiting
for an electric car when an automobile
Colorado Federation of Labor Head So
Declares It He Adds That Better
Feeling Prevails Between Em
ployers and Employes.
Colorado Springs, Aug. 15. The so-
called Rockefeller industrial plan adopt
ed by the Colorado Fuel and Iron com
pany, is declared an unqualified failure
by John McLennan, president of the state
federation of labor, in his annual report
to the federation convention. General
ly, the report says, better feeling ap
pears to prevail between the employer
and employe.
USE PARENTS' BLOOD.
RUSHING .WESTWARD
IN VAST HORDES
The Official Statement Issued at Petro
grad Tells of Crossing Rivers and
Advancing Along the Upper
Strypa.
Petrograd, Aug. 15. The rapid Rus
sian advance in Galicia continues. The
Russian troops are crossing to the west
ern banks of the Zlota, Llpa, Bystritza
and Solotvina and they are advancing
along the upper Strypa, the war office
announced to-day.
HUGHES TALKED TO WOMEN
Saluted Them as "Fellow Citizens" at
Spokane, Wash.
Spokane, Wash., Aug. 15. Charles E.
Hughes yesterday addressed his first au
ilience composed solely of women voters
They heard him in the first of two
speeches delivered here. Mr. Hughes
touched upon suffrage and liw views con
reining it, ami reiterated to a large ex
tent attack on the administration made
at Coeur D'Alene, Idaho, yesterday.
1 speak to vou women as I do to men,
the nominee said. I did not come here
to make a different kind of speech from
the kind I make to men, I know vou are
solicitous aliont the welfare of this conn
try. There is no doubt that the heart of
womanhood is patriotic all through."
Mr. Hughes' salutation of the women
as "fellow citizens" wan applauded. He
told them he was interested in "good na
tional housekeeping" and the means of
effecting it.
"We must have in this country a dif
ferent notion about the conduct of our
business than we have hud in the years
gone by," he said. " This world is not the
world of even 25 years ago. This world
is a world that has found itself. It 1ms
found itself In the depression of a ter
rihle Gethsemane. Horrible as is the
spectacle of war. frightful as is the
waste, we cannot look upon them without
realizing that a new F.uropj is emerging
from tins struggle. e cannot contem
plate the conditions of the 20th century
without knowing that there is to be a
new spirit in the I'nited States if our
prosperitv is to have a firm foundation.
It must le a spirit which demands effi
cient, impartial government in the inter
ests of all the people.
"It is ea.y for some to become enthu
siastic when the bands are playing and
the flags unfurled, when they hear the
strains of the national anthem and the
crowds are around them. But we must
have a new spirit of enthusiasm in the
humdrum work of administration, the
spirit of patriotism in the administra
tion of government. That is the hardest
lesson for popular government to learn.
Every day in the year is a more severe
test of patriotism than the Fourth of
.Tulr."
TROOPS
TO STAY
AT HOME
Remainder of the Militia of
the United States, Num
bering About 25,000 Men,
Will Not Be Sent to the
Mexican Border, Recent
Order Having Been Revoked
AUTOMOBILES COLLIDED
MEN WILL BE KEPT
IN STATE CAMPS
No Official Explanation Has
Been Given, but the Deli
cacy of the Railroad Strike
Situation Is Said to Have
Been a Moving Considera
tion in the Case
RETURNED TO ASYLUM
EMPEROR GOES EAST
TO WATCH STRUGGLE
Will Endeavor to Lend Encouragement to
Teutonic Armies Battling Against
Russian Offensive.
Berlin, Aug. 15. Emperor William is
again on the eastern front, where the
Austro-German armies are struggling to
withstand the heavy strokes of trie Russians.
Louis R. Fisher Taken Back to Massachu
setts! Suffering Delusions.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 15. l.ate Sunday
night Officer Coburn took into custody
Louis R. Fisher of Welleslev, Mass , Who
has been stopping in St. Johnsbury since
April, when he was released trom the in
sane ward of the Massachusetts state
hospital at Westboro, Mass., on a six
months' parole. Ijitn Sunday afternoon
hisher was seen attempting to regulate
traffic on different streets about town,
under the delusion that he was a traffic
officer.. He interfered with no one, as
autoists paid no attention to him.
Later he was taken to the police sta
tion and kept until Monday morning,
when 'nicer Coburn took turn as far as
Ixiwell, Mass., where the authorities from
the Westboro iiir-titut ion met and took
him in charge.
Since coming to St. .lohnsbury in the
spring Fisher has acted qneerly at times,
although it was not very perceptible until
lately.
Ihiring the early summer he was em
ployed as a laborer by Clarence Weeks.
When the recruifs were called for bor
der service Fisher enlisted with Co. I) but
was turned down in the examination at
Fort Ethan Allen. He returned to St.
.lohnsbury, where lately it has not been
known where he stayed or worked.
San Antonio, Tex.. Aug. 15. The or-
er tor the remainder ot the country s
militia, about 25.OO0 men, to proceed to
the border has been revoked, according to
announcement at the southern depart
ment headquarters to-day. The war de
partment notified headquarters that the
troops would continue to be held in state
mobilization camps.
Xo official explanation is made, but it
is known that the delicacy of the rail
road strike situation has been a moving
consideration.
The suspension ordered prevents the
immediate movement of troops from Ver
mont, Kentucky and Ohio. Some of the
Vermont troops were ready to go. The j
suspension is not a revocation of the or
der. If the strike situation clears, the
troops will be moved to the border.
There is a possibility that some of the
troops, in the event of a strike, might
be called upon to guard or operate mail
trains and trains supplying troops al
ready on the border.
Baby in One of Them Was Cut by Glass
from Broken Windshield.
An automobile operated by Kiuscll Al
Ion, an ugent, struck a Ford runabout
owned by F. W . llellville of William
town last evening at H o'clock, the aeci
dent occurring near the water fountain at
the iiiii.ti.ni of Mui. Washington anl
North Main streets. Little Iternita Hell
ville, who, with her mother, was riding
in the riiuuhout with Mr. llellville, n
reived several ruts about the face when
the jur of collision shattered thn wind
shield. She was taken to the office of
Dr. W. D. Reid and then to see Dr. D. C.
Jari. Seen stitches were required to
close one of the cuts and other abrasions
had to be dressed.
Allen was driving a Chalmers touring
car from the main thoroughfare into
Washington street and Mr. Heille was
emerging from Kim street with his car
headed for the s'liith end when the
Chalmers came against the rear of the
runabout. Several spoke in one of the
rear wheels on the smaller car were shat
tered along with the windshield, but at
t ''lit inn was immediately diterted from
the damage to the ear to the rare of the
child, who was rushed to the doctors of
fire.
The driver of the Ford car states that
his auto was moving slowly, as he had in
mind the dangers attendant upon the op
eration of antos on the corner where the
collision occurred. A street car was an
chored on the Washington street line and
probably served to complicate matters.
(It her motor vehicle were in the vicinity
and many people who witnessed the acci
dent seemed to have a single opinion in
the matter of assigning responsibility for
the accident. The little Bellville girl was
taken to her home, near the Granitevillo
line, later in the evening. Her condition
is not considered serious, although it
will take some time for the abrasions on
her face to heal.
CAR ROLLED OVER TWICE.
IL F. McGowan Severely Injured on
Highgate Road.
Fairfield, Aug. 15. The condition of
II. F. MctJowan. who was injured in an
automobile accident Sunday night, re
mains about the same. While he was
driving on the Highgate road near St.
Albans, the car went over a steep em
bankment turned oor twice and landed
right side up. Mr. McGowan was hit hy
parts ot the car and was severely in
hired about the chest and received other
minor injuries.
He was accompanied by Miss Doris
Pabcock of Tenafly, N. J., who escaped
with only slight injuries.
8-HR. DAY
MAYBE
I
G'rEN
Railroad y .re Said to Bo
ReL" to Grant It, Pro
viding: Concessions Arc
Made by Employes So
That Burden on Railroads
Will Not Be Too Heavy
PRES. WILSON TALKS
WITH MANAGERS
Later He Will Confer with
the Representatives of the
Brotherhoods Working:
Out of the Plan for Eight
Hour Day May Be Left to
the Interstate Commerce
Commission
GIRL INSTANTLY KILLED
EQUIPMENT SENT
Vermont Recruits at Fort Ethan Allen
to Be Supplied.
Burlington. Aug. 15. Notice has been
received at Fort Ethan Allen that ship
ments of equipment have started from
government depots. Adjt. Gen. Lee S.
Tillotson declined to say from what de-
When Automobile Skidded and Went Into
Ditch.
Scarborough, Me.. Aug. 15. Margaret
Whipple of Portland w-as m?tantly killed
last night when an auto in which she and
Reuben Higgins of South Portland were
riding, 'kidded and went into a ditch
Her neck w as broken. Higgins was pinned
beneath the car but not seriously in
jured.
VOLUNTEERS SAVED
THE CREAMERY
Formed Bucket Brigade at West Berk
shire and Put Out Threatening
Fire on the Roof.
DEMOCRATS OPEN IN MAINE
TEUTONS STILL RETREATING.
Before the Advance of Russians in Gali
cia.
London, Aug. 15. The Austrians and
Germans iii (ialicia are still falling back
before the advance of the Russians, who, i to its demands in this regard without
according to I'etrograc, have made addi- ! the firing of a gun or the shedding of a
tional gains along the Sereth, Zlota and j drop of blood."
Lipa rivers and have captured the l .
Samuel J. Graham Says Wilson Has Kept
Country at Peace.
Portland, Me., Aug. 15. The Demo
cratic campaign opened in this city last
night with a rally, the principal speaker
of which was Samuel .1. Graham, assist
ant attorney general of the I'nited
States. " -
Mr. Graham claimed for the adminis
tration that it had promoted progress,
that it had brought prosperity, that it
had kept the country out. of war at ft
time when the world was aflame with
war and red with blood.
"The administration," he declared, "has
kept the country at peace and put an
end to the I'-boat war causing the most
militant figure in the world to concede
West Berkshire. Aug. 15. The cream
ery building of O. D. Phelps was damaged
pots in particular. He did say, though, ! by a fire which started early yesterday
that he expected the things needed within I afternoon on the roof of the' building.
a day or two. There is no truth to a re-1 probably from a spark from the chimney.
port that the mosquito bars required, one A fire extinguisher was used and a con
for each man, may be made in the city, itinuous stream of water was thrown upon
so far as known. There is no concern I the blaze by means of a bucket brigade
here, says the adjutant general, capable! from Pike river nearby. Men and women
of making them. Permission has been formed the line and passed the water
requested to obtain the equipment, else
where than from the government if necessary.
ARGUED OVER COFFEE;
ONE MAN KILLED
COMES HOME ON LEAVE.
To Make Children Immune from Infan
tile Paralysis.
New York, Aug. 15. Family physi
cians were advised to day by Dr. Abra
ham Zineher to trv the use of normsil
blood serum obtained from the parents htronS1y fortified town of Tustobaby
as a method of rendering their children l l"e ""'"""r. m me upper
immune to infantile paralvsis. The ; (,ertttl' however, the Teutonic allies at , Capt. A. A. Skeels Has Been Serving in
theory upon which Dr. Zingher and his 8,ne points of their newly-chosen line; Royal Army Medical Corps.
assistants are working is that the blood a,e "'uing the Russians witn a
of normal adults contains anti-blie9 , vigorous artillery fire. St Albans Aug. la.-Mr. and Mrs. E.
which neutralize the virus of poliomvelit- ?rIin ' tlult "uth of Brody, on A. Skeels of this city have received a
:, ' ' I the Lub and Graberka sector, Russian cablegram from their son, Dr. A. A.
attacks were put down with heavy losses :-. n'rmeriv m mis cuv, now a cap
and that Russians who had penetrated tain, in tnR Royal Army Medical corps
Teutonic positions on the Zboroff Kon- f-ngiana, neanng news mat ne was
e
been
Salem Man Was Stabbed with Knife and
Died an Hour After Receiving His.
Wound His Assailant
Arrested.
Salem, Mass., Aug. 15. James Ger
mono was stabbed in the heart with a
table knife after an argument over a
cup of coffee and died half an hour later.
Michael Lopo was arrested and held on
a charge of murder.
along to the roof, a large number of peo
ple having responded to the alarm.
Many came from Enosburg Falls and
Franklin.
The assistance thus rendered saved the
building, although the roof was burned
from the boiler-room and from the
churningroom and some butter tubs were
damaged by smoke and water. The loss
is estimated between $300 and ?400.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 15. After thn
committee of the railroad managers had
had another conference with President
Wilson to-day it became known that a
proposal was under consideration by
which the railroads would accept the prin
ciple of an eight-hour day and leave tha
working out of its application to the in
terstate commerce commission or soms
body formed for the purpose.
Whether this plan can be worked out
will not be known till the president pre
sents it to the brotherhood leaders. The
railroads are understood to be ready td
concede the principle of the eight-hour
day, providing concessions be made by
the employes so that too heavy burden
will not be placed upon the railroads.
The men take the stand thst they prin.
eipally want the eight-hour day on condi
tion that it shall be enforced whenever
possible. The railroads are said to lie
lieve that it is impossible to accept tha
eight-hour day unless a workable sys
tem of application can be built up. Lat
er in the day representatives of tha
brotherhoods will confer with the presi
dent.
The brotherhood officials did not ap
pear to be optimistic over the likelihood
of the proposal proving acceptable. If
such a proposition is tendered they couM
only refer it to the general board com
posed of 6110 committee chairmen now in
Xew York.
FIRE AT SUMMER RESORT.
NURSES WERE HALTED.
i;nA nr4UA..atv rtf t i !,..,-! fiHilint for hnmo from KnirlanH nn 1p.iv
Alburg While Coming from Canada n. . ,m . ,,',, of absence. Gent. Skeels. who has bee
to the united Mates.
ACCUSED OK ASSAULT.
Amos Liberty of Burlington Practically
Admitted Guilt.
Burlington, Aug. 15. Amos Liberty
was arrested last night on a warrant
made out by State's Attorney T. E. Hop
kins, charging criminal assault. Liberty,
a man about 60 years of age, is charged
with having made a criminal assault
upon Delia Root, the 13-vear-old daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Elmer E. Root, whose
home is at the corner of Park and Mvrtle
BOSTON'S PROSPECTS
Would Be Practically Starved Out Insida
of Week.
Boston, Aug. 15. Should a general
strike of railway employes be called re
sulting in a tie-up on the three trunk
lines running into Boston, this city would
be practically starved out in les than
week.
This statement was made last night
by a number of leading wholesale pro
vision dealers.
Xever in the nation's history, the.'
men declare, has Xew England faced such
a serious crisis. Not only is the food
situation at stake, but hundreds oi
thousands of mill and factory employes
would be thrown out of work if ft strika;
of over a week's duration were declared.
At present the fresh meat supply in
Boston is only sufficient to last threa
days. Walter S. Glidden. manager of tha
Boston branch of one of the largest meat)
houses in America, said last niffht that irr
jless than a week's time with the railroad
Hotel at Lake Qmnsjgamond Was De
stroyed Guests Lost Property.
Worcester, Mass., Aug. 15. Fire which
started in the kitchen late yesterday de
stroyed the Edgemere hotel, the largest
resort at Lake Quinsigamond and a fa-
. i.,.. A ,ni: :..;..,,
snortsmen for inanv vears. The loss j. ; service crippled, all New England would
I prisoners. According to Vienna a Bus- j stationed with the expeditionary forces sl reptg The assault is alleged to have
Ott.o-. On 4 l5Th . sian attack southwest of Fodkamien near " 'H'1 ar ohi-ihki. was promoieo , i)ppn comm,tted on July IS. The man
.-topped in ironi or nun ana me man ana ItWitiea will make renresentatioTia in I Brodv, ended with the held before the T" "wm iipiiiviii n rapum ana
woman got out and began asking ques- j Washington, it whs announced yesterday ' Anstro-German positions covered with
tions regarding the road to Orrs island.
respectin: the treatment received by , Russian dead.
assigned for another year in the English
service.
HAND CUT OFF.
The man suddenly stepped behind Mr. ! from GtUwa who W(,re Illst Fr'. j No change took place Monday along
Snow and pinned both his arms behind' d HV ;,,, Tf,f 11SH dmis,inn to th e Knit, either the British -or French lines in
his back, while the womar i went through i eifstate., at Alburg. Vt.. under the ali.-n : nce, bad wearier hindering the oper- I '
ins pocKcts ana removed nis wanei eon- abor aot Thp I1IlrsM hH(1 w PruraPd ations, which were confined almost ex-;James mn or cumngion v-augni in
taming the money. Mr. Snow struggled , hv . N,w York h..niti.l tn ,ln ;,(, clusively to artillery duels. According I Knives.
with the man and after wrenching him
self clear struck him a blow in tho face
which felled him to the ground. Before
he could get to bis feet Mr. Snow ran
alter the woman who had reached the
automobile, and succeeded in rescuing his
money. Mr. Snow did not stop to secure
the number of the automobile and a good
description of the couple, being satisfied
to escape with his money.
the infantile epidemic.
FEARS POLIOMYELITIS.
SUBDUED AFTER FIGHT.
. .. T ' ; : !:. i. i. . i
,t i . t c -.u 1 Burlington. Aug. l.i. .lames (irirTin of
pelled from trenches over a front of Tim! D . ' , , , ,- ,t . . .
' , . . . , t. 1 " Rose street had his right hand cut off
vards southwest of the Thiepval-Pozieres , , , , . .. . . ...
I . ,. , . . at. the brush factorv on Pine street this
, , k i -F' mornmg at 1 :30 ochvk. He was operat-
England Threatens to Put Un Bars tm ,he IsonM fro"t, according to , ",,,. m,rh,n. whp uj f.lt
Against Us. Y . . Vi, x :alippe,i and his hand caught in the predion this morning, when Probation
l f her Btlvanep fla&insr. tho Austrian alcntr . " r . . . . I
., " , . . " . .,, '' e- knives, (.ritlin was taken immediately Ifficer Charles A. Smith of the capital
ilropped into police headquarters. He
piacticallv admitted his guilt to the orh'
cer who placed him under arrest. Liber
ty, who lived at the house, is said to
have taken advantage of an opportunity
offered when both of the girl'a parents
were away.
be without fresh meat.
"At present." declared Mr. Glidden,
"Boston storage plants are almost empty,
This condition is chiefly due to existing
high prices and hot weather. We ar
estimated at between $10,000 and $15
000. The building was owned by- the
Worcester 1-and Development company
and was partly insured. Early this sum-
If ..... IA V William.
for five years receiving on an average of three carload!
It was'a two and one-half storv struc, "f frP;h 'pa' d.v- "hic,h is .nl-v
ture with 20 rooms. When the fire was c'nt mpf ."r rP"lar
discovered there were about 15 guests in therf ,s a '"'' of m0YA
, 'meats, such as ham and bacon, on th
the hotel, besides a number ot persons i ',' ' ' . . ,. ,
, 4i , 4i x, market, I do not believe the supply would
who were passing the day there. Many ' ' ' ' , . " '
f , . AS , , , I last more than 10 days,
of the guests lost al their belongings, . . : ,
win e the 15 employes lost everything , ' " , . ., r . 7
... , rc . . "further advance in prices in the event o
except the clothes they were wearing.
a strike.
TALK OF THE TOWN
William Went worth of Montpelier. ar
rested last night on an intoxication
charge, was getting ready to pay the
minimum fine and costs for his trans
STRIKE RENEWAL THREATENED.
If New York Railways Company Doe
Not Reinstate Men Discharged.
T I . t .. 1 - n t . . .. . . .. . . - .... . . -
iuii-! 10-uay me arso iiimesu anu easv pi mil iis. in ... 1 ... .
urges the government to enforce a most ; the latter sector another line of trenches jj.i ,; ' '
rigid quarantine against infantile paraly- having been penetrated and more men ; 1
sis now prevalent in New York. made prisoners. In the Goriza sector! INCREASE MILK RATES
"At the moment when we have huge ; Rome say the Austrian guns are being I "
-. . , - . !t;. -.n ,w.v ; ; -;r ot: -it. "Z'":"3: four st.te. Meet to
uisappomtei iover naa inea ior ueatn 1 , " i- muu, -.-, ui,iKrS
. - v., 1 would be a great disaster. For the sake by the Italians were put down by the
by Two Methods. !of our AiUrtn ton we m,t ukp dll. Austri.ns.
Portland. Me, Aug. 17. Although precautions. Quarantine regulations Petroarad reports
rnognized in Went worth a minor, w ho
vas onvktcd last fall of complicity in
the theft of fl.Vl worth of shoe in
Montpelier and then placed on probation.
Having misrepresent d his age on the
Prices.
A - ' t 1 . 1 J
ssisieu uy counters arid camper" m-m j
the Hotel the employes removed ail tne
silverware and practically all the fur
niture on the ground flocr.
The fire was discovered by employes
working on the. upper floor. They saw
kitchen and spread the alarm. The blare Wk. Aug Lr-Kenewal of the
was fought with , .on v extinguishers, and' t.trik0" !,he, 8"rf"C, C"r I,nM..' th
cottager and eampe'rs forme,! a bucket Railways company, which em-
brigade. The flames spread o rapidly PW" .n conductors and motormen
that all attention was soon directed to nd operates 1.2PI cars is threatened
saving property in the part of the build- "1ms h company reinstates more than
ing not on tire. The Shrewsbury tire " employes, who were discharged, union
department was called and apparatus 1 'r "'"t r.-ause oi thflT activities
r-... .,t.r .. . ,immnnet V.tr .' in the recent tie-up.
was pumped from the lake, but the fire 1 Imands of the carmen were submit,
had reached such proportions that air cf- j 'i yesterday to I resjdent Theodora
forts to get the blaze under control were I Shont, of the New ork Lai ways
, .. r company and General Manager Edward
The exploding of a large tank contain-! A- M.her of the Third Avenue Railway
ing kerosene caused exctement. as 'company. The men a,k for mcreaaed
eral of the men engaged in fighting the! ni1 b',,Pr orklP condition.,
fire were nearly. -aught in the -treams of ''th nine hour minimum work da,.
It was feared that a tank, a
Im-casmn of his first arraignment before i burning on
1 . . m, . 1 . c . . . . VAl 'in., d"i!l .nt rtf oacnl-.n. until.! ,v.l
;viing laLTisirwie j. si. .-argenT, v enr- 1 " . ,
Mid llctown. N" Y.. Aug. I.V Dairymen ' rh w as brouxht before the court I plede. and thi kept hundreds of curious . ., lrffinit Varatio
Thomas Hone, aged 7. of West brook, i should be enforced on passengers com- the Turkish offensive
took rat r.is.n and then shot himself j ing from Near jork and other inf-ted frontier, but asert
wits a revolver t,eeaue Mr. and Mr.jares and a tN.ro-.igii diinr ti-n car- the Turk has been forced en the south- -ler-ev. I'ennvlvan;a and Connecticut.
ivory U. IVarMrn retued prrtnt..n ; ned cut m ail (! where a Msduw 1 et bank of Lake Van. Turki!i Amir- i
t"T lorn to n arrv thir
daughter, he lire.
a.ttx a Lard Lt ith tlie
a continuation of !of four states met here yesterday and nL-nin and aked to disclose. He told of I persons at a safe distance from the)
e on the Persian : plan nej a movement f. r higher' milk ; t-ftying three glasses of beer in a first-' building. The fact that the tank was! BrattlrUiro, Aug. 15. Mu
that a retreat , price. The v came from New York. New J, !' establishment. Went worth will 'buried deep in the ground preventeJ an ; laindi 'f Kansas City, Mo.
reed en the south- -ler-ev. I'ennvlvan;a and Connecticut. I s. rve ten days in the eounty jail for his lexple!.!. ( yeteriay ta amies 01 raixviBienarat 01
an. Turkish Arnte-1 A. A Hartshorn of Hami'ton. X. V-' it.tnxiratinn offense and then at aentrm-e j Ti e fire spread to the water tower, but ; the Brattiebom Memorial hoepital, U
"' LVyear-.ld ;f doubt exi.ts. If we neglect precau- ma, through the tire of the Russian flot il- jw a --te prt'i lent of the Dairv m. n'i f 2', rears in the houe f correction 1 tt at structure n avel. as wrre a ' ucveed Mi- Mary K. Schuma W. M.M
H- ui subdued jtion and the epidemic sprea.ls here we, la on the lake. The Turkish war oflice - leag..:f. to nm. I -lohn Y. Uios, uf cr the "larceny offense will become oper-' number of buildings and oHtaj-e in the j S huma. her ha jne on an indefinite a.
tliepoLce. ihall Late ciJy cuxtlv-e to bUrcO aaya the F.useians in Persia coLUnue U WashuigtonviLe, V. atue. ark. cauwa. . 1
