iyi:Tlrr;i FORECAST for Kansas:
Unsettled,, with rising tempera
ture tonight and Sunday.
JIFT suggestion to gas company-I-cti
hav more gas!
"HOME EDITION
TOPEKA, KANSAS, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 23, 1916 TEN PAGES
TWO CENTS
WHO SENT A TIP
TO WALL STREET
ON PEACE NOTE?
Secretary Lansing Invites In
vestigation Threatened.
Will Guard Advance Informa
tion More Carefully.
SUSPECT NEWSPAPER MEN?
Reached Curb Brokers Ahead
of Publication.
Were Relatives of Government
In on Big Cleanup!
Washington, Deo. 23. Administra
tion men said today Secretary Lansing
will welcome the investigation by
which ltepresentative Wood proposes
to ascertain whether any high govern
ment officials or their relatives profit
ed by the Wall street upset attendant
upon Lansing s two interpretive state
ments Thursday and the Wilson peace,
note.
It was stated exceptional care will
be taken hereafter to guard against
possible leaks of advance information
from Washington that might tend to
cause price fluctuation.
Government then indicated they
were admittedly concerned over the
apparent fact that a tip as to the
peace note Wednesday reached the
street ahead of publication.
The information that the note had
gone was given in the strictest confi
dence to newspaper men Wednesday
morning. Shortly afterward, the news,
in more or less definite form, was in
Wall street.
Will Weed Out Tipsters.
Because of this, the government is
anxious to weed out any newspaper
men, or any one posing as newspaper
men, who may have been serving as
tipsters" for i he street It also real
izes the utmost caution was not taken
in making the confidential announce
ment. Four men not in the newspaper
business were in Secretary Lansing's
conference room when he pledged the
reporters to secrecy and gave them the
information.
The whole note proposition was
more or less an open secret. The peace
note went thru several hands in the
state department before being put on.
the cables Monday night and Tuesday
morning. It was then sent to the pub
lic printer.
When confidential information con
cerning it was given to the newspaper
men. there was no attempt tJ lock the
doors of the big reception room, and
there was no bar against visitors.
The Lansing "verge of war" state
ment next day was elicited by news
paper men's questioning, tho whether
it had been planned in advance is not
known.
IN AJWD RIOT
Dresden in Throes of Revolt
Lasting Three Days.
Feminine 31 oh Stones Shops,
Wounds Policemen.
London. Dec. 23 Serious food riots
at Iresden in which police and mili
tary forces were used by the German
authorities to quell the attack of a
hundred women were reported in
Kotterdam dispatches today to the
Kxchange Telegraph company. The
riots occurred on Sunday, Monday and
Tuesday, it was asserted. On Tues
day three policemen were seriously
wounded by the rioters.
The Rotterdam dispatch asserted
that the women joined in a procession
which stoned shops and marched
past the palace shouting for food.
The sharpest fighting occurred Tues
day when the authorities sought to
suppress the demonstration which at
that time was joined in by a hun
dred women.
CARS CRASH IN K. C.
Si'ore of Christmas Shoppers Injured
on Troost Avenue Line.
Kansas City, Mo., Dec. 23. More
than twenty persons were injured
here today when three street cars on
the Troost car line crashed together
as the result of the brakes of one of
them failing to hold while going down
hill. According to police announce
ment none was seriously hurt.
The three cars were loaded with
Christmas shoppers. City and private
ambulances conveyed those who were
hurt to various hospitals.
FISH FIGHTSFOUR. HOURS
Vanderbilt Lands nigscst Devil Fish
Caught in Florida Waters.
.Miami, Fla., Dec. 23. After a four
hours fight in which several harpoons,
two shark hooks and three bullets
were nlnnted in its body, the biggest
devil fish ever caught in these waters
was landed by William K. Vanderbilt.
PRESIDENT GIVES WHITE
HOUSE ATTACHES TURKEYS
Washington, Dec. 23. There'll
be a nice fat Christmas turkey in
tho home of every White House
attache.
Following a custom he adopted
when he came to the White House,
President Wilson has ordered a
bird for each of his employes 125
in all.
RAILROADS READY
Executive Committee Appoint
ed to Attend Legislature.
F. C. Fox of the Santa Fe Is
Made Chairman.
TO HAVE NO LOBBYISTS
Roads Handle Their Legal
Business In Dignified Way.
Lawmakers Give Them More
Consideration as Result.
The Kansas railroads will be repre
sented In Topeka during the coming
session of the legislature by an execu
tive committee bf which F. C. Fox,
general manager of the Santa Fe, is
chairman. The other members are
A. DeBernardi, general superintendent
of the Missouri Pacific; G. W. Bourse, :
assistant general manager of the Rock !
Island; J. L. Walsh, superintendent 01 i
the M. K. & T. and J. 13. Casey, super-
intendent of the Union Pacific.
The business of the executive' com- j
mittee is to arrange for the appear- .
ance before the legislative committees
of railway officials who are qualified
to state the position of the railroad :
companies regarding measures affect- ;
ing their interests, pending in the ;
senate and house. For instance, if a
bill has to do with rates, a tratlic ol- !
ficial will present the case for the
railways; if the bill has to do with the
operation of trains, an operating offi
c' 1 tells the story, and so on.
"o More lobbyists.
Always it is a regular official of a
railroad, familiar with the subject re
garding which legislation is sought,
who states the case. Railroads no
oncer employ lobbyists to look after
their interests in the legislature. The :
old fashioned lobbyist was expensive
and neither the legislature nor the
public had any respect for him.
Therefore, he was relegated to the
junk-heap, and now the modern rail
road, thru its managers, presents its
case to the proper legislative commit
tee in a dignified, business-like man
ner. Two years ago, when an important :
railroad bill was under consideration j Last year's mail made a record,
the railroads, thru their executive i Thla year8 already has exceeded last
committee, addressed an open letter to year's by 25 pel cent,
the legislature, making an argument drains west of Buffalo are delayed
against the measure. The bill did not anywhere from twelve to twenty-four
pass either house. There has not been nours, with prospects of being forty
a railroad scandal in the Kansas leg-lpiht hours late when they pass St.
isalture for many years.
. , -r- Kansas Law Strict.
Under the Kansas anti-lobbying
law, no person Is permitted to talk for
or against any measure to a legisla
tor, without first registering as a leg
islative agent, and no person, register
ed or otherwise, is allowed to support
or oppose legislation in conversation
with a legislator on the floor of the
senate or house while the body is in
session. . There have been cases of an
infraction of this statute, but not by i roads complain they can't get switch
the railroads. They do their work in men and yard men to handle the
a public manner, before the commit- i ca: .i, . ... .
tees appointed to consider all proposed I Fighting to catch up with their
laws. I schedule, the postoffice department
! tndnv is ordering emDlovment of mail
STATE CHARITIES
I
9.166 Jfeedv Cared For During
1,rcu' areu lur uunug
the Last Fiscal Year.
I
rt. Ti,.. i . wy , .
Owe Issues Annual Report Of
the Board of Control.
ing at top speed, thousands of sacks
Eighty-two Kansas charitable insti- aro piled up a day and a half behind
tutions, under supervision of the state schedule.
board of control, cared for 9,166 needy i Storms have delayed practically all
,rr,m r,n ji i ' trains due here today adding to the
men. women and children during the confuslon. Mail arrived later than 7
year ending June 30. In a special re- a m today, may not be delivered un
port issued today Senator J. W. Howe, ' til Tuesday or Wednesday, officials
secretary of the board of control, tells . said.
in detail of the work by state chari- I Worst Congestion Ever.
-.0fthe Bross exPense of 166,- Cleveland. O., Dec. 23 With Christ
797.74, the state distributed $14,000 ' maa two days off, this city today ex
among 67 of the 82 institutions under : perienced the worst mail and express
its supervision. j congestion in its history. Much Christ-
Sixteen children's homes in Kansas mas mail will be one and two days
make reports to the state board. Of late, said officials. Yesterday's
, , "'" '". inineen receive state
am. xne sixteen institutions cared for , twelve hours, contributed.
d1lUJ1?ntelve n,onths- or an Use Triple Force at St. Louis,
average of 100 children a month. The - . , , .
expense as reported to the state was St- .Loui3' f C-T23' Trf,.c "Ses
$65 563 .111 i tion in the St. Louis terminals was
Hospital Reports.
Forty hospitals, private and charity,
sent reports to the state board. They
reported the care of 7,539 charity pa
tients during the year. The expense
was given at $97,444.38.
Five rescue homes sent reports.
Three of the homes cared for 95 wo
men and girls at an expense of $3,300,
while two other homes received 37 pa-
t.intAdurin& the year at a" expense of
$2,500.
The Masonic hnmp at wj,j
which burned this week; and the Odd
Fellows home at Eureka Tjk whii. i
tly: .8ent rePrts t the i caused the congestion,
state. The Masonic home cared for 51 Railroad officials announced today
IrfS. ,? aaults during the year. trains from the east were from one to
Cmj Fellows' home cared for 45 j fourteen hours late. Outgoing trains
children and 100 adults. Neither of j are held up from ten to forty-five min
tne homes received state aid. utes in taking the bridge elevation in
Aid to Private Charities. i the Terminal yards, an operation
Expense of charity work is given in ' wnich usually takes three minutes,
the report at $166, 797.74. During each ' Uncertainty of the arrival time of
ifBiBiauvc evasion an aDDrODr at nn of
$14,000 a year is made for the care
of private charities. These charities
are designated in the appropriation bill
and during the biennium ending June
30, included 67 of the 82 institutions
which make reports to the state board
of control. The distribution of funds
as well as inspection of institutions is
under direction of the state board. "
MEMORY OF SUFFRAGIST
Services as Tribute to Inez Milholland
Eoisscvaln at National Capitol.
Washington. 'Dec. 23. Memorial
services for the late Inez Milholland i reach Captain Mackintosh and nine
Boissevain. noted suffrage leader will i of the crew of the Aurora. They had
be held in Statuary hall at the capitol I only a scanty supply of provisions
on Monday. It will be the first time ' when the Aurora broke away in a
that a woman to whom no monument tflizzard twenty-one months ago, leav
has been erected in the hall has been ing them stranded, and nothing has
so honored there. J been heard from them since.
MAIL IS LOGGED
Worst In History in Some of the
. Larger Cities.
Bay and a Half Behind in Chi
cago Trains Delayed.
EXCEEDS RECORD 25 PER CENT
Volume of Packages Literally
Crush Mail System.
Postmaster General Orders
Freight Cars to Rescue.
Washington, Dec. 2S. Millions of
pounds of mail are inundating the
postoffice department all over the
United States today a part of the
biggest job by 25 per cent that the
Christmas season ever has brought
postmasters.
Every postoffice in the country has
been hit by the deluge. A hundred
telegrams a day to the department
have told of record mails and record
obstacles to their delivery in every big
town between New York and San
Francisco.
Struggling thru blizzards, mail
trains are making their way across
the country anywhere from twelve to
forty-eight hours late. Hundreds of
tons of Christmas presents are lying
at railroad stations because cars can
not be procured for them
Postmaster General Burleson today
ordered railroads to impress fast
freight cars into service in an effort
to catch up with the biggest volume of
mail Mr. and Mrs. America have ever
trusted to Santa Claus.
Trains 12 to 24 Honrs Late.
At the same time mail superintend
ents at all stations were ordered to
emDlov mail handlers wherever they
can De found and to send the bills to
the railroads, bound by contract to
handle the mail, and unable to get
labor to get it.
Postoffice officials refused to make
any estimate of the volume of mail.
Chicago handled 2.150 tons 4,300,000
pounds in three days this week.
One Chicago mail order house used
16,000 mail sacks and paid $26,000
nn..nM in one dav.
Louis, which, with Chicago, is the
worst point as regards delay.
.. . ... Cur.. Shortage Hurts."
Already crushed under the sheer
volume of mail, the poEtofflce depart
ment has run square up against the
car shortage.
Demands on railroads for equip
ment has prevented delivery of mail
cars. This shortage caused the order
to use freight cars for mails. ' Rail-
handlers and acquisition of cars,
promised to bring the schedule up to
date by Christmas morning.
"We have two days more," said
Second Assistant Postmaster General
Preager, 'unless something happens
Santa
Claus in on time."
Chicago, Dec. 23. An unprecedent-
ed flood of Christmas mail, exceeding
last year's by 20 per cent according
to estimates, is piled up in railway
I stations here today. With 250 auto
trucks and 1,000 extra clerks and ev
I ery available substitute carrier work
storm, delaying mail trains often
somewhat relieved today and outgoing
passenger and mail trains left the Un
ion Station about on time Incoming
trains, however, were several hours
late.
Three times the usual number of
men employed were at work today
handling baggage and mail at the un
ion station.
Thousands of Packages Pile Up.
St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 23. Thousands
of pieces of mail and express packages
are piled in Union Station here with
no chance for distribution today. A
car and track shortage and a partial
A
........ .. J cut,.
OFF ON RESCUE TRIP
Sliackelton Sails for Antarctic Search
ing Lost Comrades.
Dunedin, N. Z., Dec. 23, via London.
Sir Ernest Shackelton, the explorer,
sailed today from Port Chalmers for
the Antarctic on board his auxiliary
ship, the Aurora, in an effort to res
cue the Vnembers of his Antarctic ex
pedition marooned near the Ross Bar-
i nrhl-h the milnror mill attomnt In
HAVE
WHEAT SENSATION
Violent Fluctuations Unparal
leled in History of Market.
Warlike Utterances Prevail and
Price -Gtfer tJp ; 1ft jCents. '
... 1
Chicago. Dec. 23. Weekly Grain
and Provisions. ) Warlike utterances I
from spokesmen of the entente allies
have lifted the price of wheat with
vigor in the last week, and so. too,
have big export sales. Net advances
ranged from 5 cents to 16 cents
a bushel. Corn gained 4 to 4
cents and oats 2 cents to 3 cents.
Provisions as a rule suffered de
clines varying from 7 to 30 cents.
It was a week that for continued
violent fluctuations in the wheat mar
ket has rarely, if ever, been equalled.
The firut sensational change in values
was an excited bulge of 16 cents,
accompanying the Russian duma's re
jection of peace. Skyrocketing of !
prices to a further amazing - extent
both preceded and followed Lloyd- ;
George's memorable initial address as
premier, but was suddenly succeeded
by a downslide of 7 cents owing
to assertions that the door to a peace
conference had not been wholly
closed.
Wilson's Note Causes Decline.
Prospects of new efforts fo"end hos
tilities resulted on Wednesday in fur
ther declines, which next day assum
ed almost panicky proportions during
whirlwind selling that knocked the
market down 7 cents as a result of
President Wilson's note, calling on the
belligerent powers to specify their
terms. Rebounds to higher level in
the wheat market Thursday yester
day were ascribed in the main to im
mense purchases for European gov
ernment, chiefly Great Britain. No ac
curate figures regarding the aggre
gate of export sales could be obtained
but current estimates placed the total
well up in millions of bushels. Corn
and oats rose by reason of svmpathv
with wheat. Car scarcity shutting off
receipts was also a bullish factor.
Doubts that a( peace conference was
yet in sight weakened provisions.
BRIDE A FIRE VICTIM
Rushes in to Save Wedding Gown and
Is Burned t& Death.
Wichita, Kan., Dec. 23. Five in
mates of the three hundred thousand
dollar Kansas Masonic home which
burned here yesterday morning, were
known to be dead today. A score or
more others are -injured, but it is not
believed seriously.
It has been fmpossible to identify
any of the bodies which have been
recovered, so badly were they burned.
Only by checking up on the ones who
escaped can officials identify them.
One of the bodies is supposed to be
that of Miss Gertrude Weigle, twenty
two years old, waitress, who was to
have been married on Christmas day.
Miss Weigle escaped from the fire,
but remembering that she had-left
her wedding dress in her room, rush
ed into the burning building after it.
She is believed to have been trapped
in her room.
SLAYS GUARD COMRADE
Military Police Search for Minnesota
Artilleryman on Border.
Brownsville, Tex., Dec. 23. Military
police at all camps on the lower bor
der today continued on the lookout
for a Minnesota artilleryman, wanted
in connection with the killing of Pri
vate John Natciests in the Llano
Grande camp, Wednesday night, after
a quarrel over the possession of a dol
lar. Natchests was from Virginia,
Minn.
- Another man is being held on sus
picion at San Benito. He will be take.n
to Llano Grande for identification.
YOU DONE YOUR PART?
SWITCHMEN WIN
Arbitrators Grant 8-Hour Day
and Increased Pay.
Neither Side Willing to Sign
Bdard's Compromise Verdiet.
New York, Dec. 23. The tight hour
day with straight pro-rata time for
overtime is granted to the Switch
men's union by the federal arbitration
board in a decision today in the
switchmen's controversy with the rail
roads. The award gives' an increase
of 5 cents per hour for both foremen
and helpers.
It was said here today on behalf of
the railroads that the award was in
terpreted by them as "Not giving an
O. K. to the Adamson law."
The award affects thirteen eastern
railroads. . -
"Much emphasis nas oeen iaia upon
the lact that the hours of work of the
switchmen are often long," says a
statement by arbitrators, Howry and
Jenks. "Altho the standard work day
has been ten hours, -frequently the men
have worked from 11 to 12 and some
times even longer."
More Time With Families.
"One of the reasons urged for the
shorter work days," continues the
statement, "is that men need more
time to visit with their families, to
take recreation and to secure the oth
er advantages of leisure.
"A second argument is that the long
hours result in physical exhaustion,
often to a degree seriously injurious
to health. The evidence shows clearly
that owing to the nature of the work
there are frequent opportunities for
intervals of rest and that the long
hours testified to are due very largely,
almost invariably, indeed, to delays
caused by trains and similar reasons
beyond the control of the railway
managers or of the switchmen.
"During these delays the switchmen
must usually be idle, so that the long
hours do not always imply excessive
physical labor."
Can Work Extra Two Hours or Not.
"It seems to be clearly established,
the statement says, "that under exist
ing conditions and probably even un
der conditions of traffic less strenuous
than the present, it will not be possible
to make the actual working eight-hour
day effective in the case of more than
a small percentage of the switching
crews, not more than 10 per cent, dur
ing the first year.
"Moreover, owing to the increase in
pay awarded to the switchmen those
who seriously desire to shorten their
work day two hours for the purpose
of employing the added hours of leis-
. nau Hictinrrlv henefinial to
themselves, will be 'able to secure this
leisure by the exercise or ineir senior
ity rights. Those who prefer the add
ed wage will generally be able to se
cure that."
SOMETHING UP SLEEVE
British Press Takes New Tack on
President Wilson's Note,
i , .
1 lLrfndon, Dec 23 The London press
took a new tack today in figuring out
why President Wilson sent his peace
note. The first outburst of indigna
tion having died down somewhat, edi
torials today began speculating on the
belief that the American president has
"something up his sleeve."
Some had the idea that the note
was based on special information
which Wilson had obtained as to the
exact terms which Germany is willing
to make and that the note was not an
indication of an anti-ally sentiment.
The two statements by the Ameri
can Secretary of State Lansing were
held thoroly bewildering but the edi
torials agreed they Were a side issue.
All newspapers expressed the hope
that the president's hint that peace
may be "'just around the corner"
might have been based on secret in
formation from Germany.
A
The
Weather Man Expects
Snow Here by Monday.
Sunday To Be a Sunless Day
Mercury Will Climb.-
Hourly temperature readings fur
nished by the weather bureau:
7 o'clock 12
11 o'clock 18
12 o'clock 20
8 o'clock 13
9 o'clock. . . . . 14
10 o'clock 14
1 o'clock 22
2 o'clock 26
Temperatures - today averaged ten
degrees below normal. The wind is
blowing at the rate of twelve miles
an hour from the east.
Moderate weather with a chance for
a white Christmas is promised by the
local weather bureau. The sky was
cloudy this morning and the wind had
shifted back to northeast, and unset
tled conditions in the northern and
eastern portions of the United States
is expected to culminate in snow
here,, probably be:ore Christmas.
Unsettled weather with rising tem
peratures is forecast for tonight and
Sunday. There is no chance for any
sunshine tomorrow,, tho temperatures
probably will hover close to the.
freezing point. No snow was reported
in Kansas Friday night, but the sky
was cloudy at practically all places,
and conditions are exceedingly favor
able for snow.
Shippers Forecast.
The shippers' forecast reads to pro
tect 36 hour shipments north against
temperatures of from 5 to 10; west, 10
to 20. east and south, 20. The lowest
temperature here tonight
will not be below 15 degrees, accord-
ing to S. D Flora, local eather oh-
server. Tomorrow the mercury will
climb orobablv to 32 degrees, air.!"""-"" " "
Flora said
Storms In the East.
A heavy storm occurred last night
(Cnnfinijpa on Pncre Two.)
POUNCE ON LANSING
Republican "Friends" Term T-ate Ef
fort "Clumsy and 111 Considered."
Washington. Dec. 23. The Republi
can Publicity association, thru its
DreMdent. Jonathan liourne. todav
bitterly attacked Secretary Lansing for
what it termed his "clumsy and ill-iciares tnat tne rnaracier 01 tne en
considered utterances" regarding : tente is obvious from the headline.
President Wilson's peace note to j "The U. S. Are Mixing In." Count
Europe. Reventlow devotes the greater part of
"Mr. Lansing may he acquitted of (his editcrial o the statement of See
any intention of wreaking the havoc jretary LansL.g, which he terms a
he has wrought, but surely he should ; threat again it Germany that America
have had enough sense to have meas -
ured the effect his words would have,"
Bourne declared
"Statements which require explana
tions or retractions within twenty
four hours can not inspire confidence
at home or respect abroad."
NEWSPAPER SUSPENDS
High Cost of Paper Closes Daily Pub
lished Since 1867.
St. Charles. Mo;, Dec. 23. The high
cost of print paper was given as rea
son for the suspension after January
1 of the Demokrat. local German daily,
one of the oldest in the state. Colonel
J. H. Bode has been publishing the
Demckrat since 1867.
STORM WRECKS YACHT
The America, Only 3 Months Old Was
Premier of Pleasure Crafts. -
New York, Dec'. 23: The America,
the large $20,000' flying yacht of the
America Trans-Oceanic company was
wrecked at its hangar at Port Wash
ington. Long Island, in the seventy
mile gale hat swfept this section last
night. The yacht was- built three
months ago and was said to retire-
sent the highest development of a
pleasure flying yacht in this country.
HAD SLICK SCHEME
Holton Brothers Sold Cigars
Under a Return Guarantee.
Would Refund Money if Smokes
lVere Unsatisfactory.
BUT ALL HAD TO BE RETURNED
Therefore Sales Were Made
When Goods Were Sampled.
Both Boys Held in Jail Here
for Federal Authorities.
Francis C. and Burr P. Hollings
worth of Holton, brothers, Are in the
county jail, held for federal authori
ties and charged with using the mails
to defraud. Their individual bonds
have been fixed at $300 and to date
they have been unable to raise them
and obtain thir Telease. The young
men were employed in a general store
at Holton at the time of their arrest.
It was not their connection with the
store but their plan to earn some "side
money" that got the men into trouble.
According to government officials
they had a system .that was a sure
winner while it lasted.
According to the federal charges
the brothers styled themselves the
Royal Cigar company of Holton.
They advertised to send a box of 100
cigars to any one who would send
them $3.50; the cigars to be placed in
the buyer's hands merely upon ap-
proval with the privilege of return-j
ing them and obtaining a refund of
the $3.50 if the cigars were not satis
factory.
A CI icap Brand.
Every box sent out stuck for the
reason that the Royal Cigar company
agreed to refund only when all the
cigars were returned. The buyer did
not know until he had smoked one
whether or not the cigars were satis
factory and after he had done that he
could return only ninety-nine.
The cigars, federal authorities say,
could easily be sold with a profit at
$3.50 a hundred. The Royal Cigar
company saw to that.
The Royal Cigar company also
sought to employ agents over the
country, the government charging
that the company agreed to pay $25
a week as salary with an expense ac
count of $4 a day. The charge in the
suit brought is that the two men were
not equipped to fulfill that -sort of a
contract; that they had neither the
money to finance such a plan nor the
cigars to fill any quantity of orders. "
It is said that the parents of the
two Hollingsworths live- in Kansas ; belligerents without asking for what
City. The men say they have an au- : reason each of them is fighting?
tomobile ; in Kansas Cty and havt'-He has not felt that the end of tho
been trying to have it brought to To
peka in order to secure some one on
two $300 bonds.
PUZZLES PRESS
Mixed Jubilation and Suspicion
in German Capital.
Wonder if America Making
Pro-British Move.
Berlin. Dec. 23. Keenest interest
mixed with jubila::on over the reviv
ing prospects of peace, was aroused
here by news of President Wilson's
peace note. Newspapers subordinated
the war news and lengthy speculation
as to what the British premier meant
in his speech of Tuesday, to the Wash
ington endeavor.
The move came when editorial com
ment reflected the public view that
neace was far off. in view or me
Llovd-George speech. The Tageblatt
nmhahivihad aptly expressed the general belief
in its editorial concluding the abyss
between Lloyd-George s standpoint
; and tnat which Germany has desig-
basis is very
great."
Probe for Underlying Motive.
The Lokal Anzeiger, tho admitting
that President Wilson's proposal has
gieat political significance wonders
whether it comes as an aftermath of
the German proposal to the entente or
is independent of it. The Lokal An-
zelger declares that Germany and her
allies cannot take a stand until the ; 0f peace will remain for some time in
entente answer is received, which from ; the foreground. It adds that the en
advance reports it considers gives no , tente will be obliged to discuss a rea
cfcuse for optimism. j Honable basis on which to end the war
count von nevenuow. commenting
j in the Deutsche Tages Zeitung, de-
) will enter ihe war on the side of Ger-
mnny-s opponents should the emperor
m.jc ' ... i-.-ii.j r rom minor injuries l " . a y as tne result
land and damage what he terms the ; OI an avalanche on the famous Yan-Anglo-American
cause. kee Girl Slide, near this city yester-
w iison b step, ouni von rteveni-
low says, "is nothing but an eiTort to
save England from catastrophe."
TROUSER HOLDUP
TO SPEND 15 YRS.
BEHIND THE BARS
Dallas. Tex.. Dec. 23. Charles J.
Garner today forfeited fifteen years'
liberty for wearing a pair of pants he
fancied. The cants belonged to O.
M Hayden, of Tulsa, Okla. Garner
took them after tapping Hayden on
the head with a gas pipe a few nights
ago. .
The next day HayGen saw his pants
going down Main street and had them
arrested. Gamer was inside. Today
Garner pleaded guilty to robbery with
a deadly weapon. Lee Eredwell. who
woo with Garner and hn a,v
. . . , . . . . , .
m e uieaithat the expedition will have three
1 " the same charge. J davs of freedom from duties.
ALLIES OUTLINE
GRIEVANCES IN
GERMANY REPLY
ote Answering Peace Offer
Almost Completed.
Describes Crushing Responsi
bilities of Central Powers.
WILSON'S MOVE A SENSATION
French Honor "Wounded' hj
President's Message.
Will Keep Peace in Foreground
Is Austrian Comment.
Faris,j Iec. 23. The allies answer
to Germany's peace proposals is al
most finished, according to the Petit
Parisien. The paper says it is & s
rather long document and sets forth,
clearly, ttoth the grievances of the
allies and the crushing responsibilities
of the central powers.
Note Puts War in Kclipse.
Paris, Dec. 23. President Wilson's
note and the statement of Secretary
Lansing continue to be the sensations
of the day and to take precedence
over everything else in the mornins
nflnora TVm nrac wlanl'a aMInn hv nn
means meets "witn favor among th
commentators not only In the man-
ner of expressing their opinion. The
principal reproach in the words oC
Stephen Plchon, who, writing in tho
Petit Journal says: "The note makes
no distinction between the states who
provoked the war and those upon
whom it was forced. The belligerents,
whoever they are, see themselves
treated in the same manner by Pres
ident Wilson. He does not remember
either the violation of Belgium neu
trality, the crimes of the submarine
warfare or any of the monstrous acts
which revolted the conscience of his
compatriots and that of the civilized
world.
Refers to Lincoln's Answer.
"Americans can appreciate this sing
ular conception as they please. Wo
should be lacking in the first of our -duties
in not holding it up as an out
rage to our honor and our dignity."
George Clemenceau, former pre
mier, in his newspaper, L'Homme Kn
chaine: "The moral side of the war
haa escaped President Wilnon. He
put on the same footing all of tho
war could be understood in the same
way by both sides and-consequently, it
would seem almost blasphemous to
hear it said that 'The objects seem tho
same on both sides. "
Lincoln's answer to the French and
British offers to mediate between tho
north and the south in 1863 is freely
quoted and analogies are drawn be
tween the situation then and now.
"What citizens of the United States
would blame us if we answered Wil
son as Lincoln answered the mediators
then?" asks the Echo de Paris.
125 l-Boats to U. S. Shores!
The Matin says:
"The American note is certainly in
spired by high sentiments. It is
doubtful whether it is opportune."
The Journal and the Gaulois think
President Wilson was influenced by
the intensification of submarine war
fare and consideration of the conse
quences of total interruption of sea
j traffic if the Oermans should carry out
the project they are reported to have
decided on and send 125 submarines to
American waters.
Compel Germans to State Terms.
Paris, Xec. 23. The only reference
to President Wilson's note at the pub
lie sitting of the chamber of depu-
' , j , t,o..,!i
hn ovr,ro.soH th. .ur ih.t if ...i'
; compei Germany to tell plainly her
. war aims
Deputy Renaudel made his brief
reference in announcing that the 8o
cialist party would vote for the ap
propriations for the first six months of
1917. These subsequently were passed
Sees Advantage in Note.
London. Dec. 23. The Neue Freio
Prese of Vienna, according to a Rou
ter's Amsterdam dispatch, says that
President Wilson d note will have th
: pffect. at anv rate, that the miMtinn
; and the desire for peace in the entente
countries will be further strengthened.
SNOWSUDE FATAL
Colorado Avalanche Buries Cliristmaa
Pleasure I'arty.
finrav Pnln Deft 93 Tina .
;is oead and ten others are suffering
day.
Paul Siebach. 17. was killed. The
injured men were rescued by miners
near-by who saw the slide and sum
moned assistance.
Siebach was the driver of a wagon
carrying a party to this city to cele
brate Christmas. As the wagon
crossed the danger zone under the
Yankee Girl Slide a mass of snow
j "ran" down the mountain side, engulf-
! ing the"2:
!plin QTII Q flYPR I I M IT
i wnlllO i IVIMO UlCll LlllU
Great reparations for Soldiers In
- - Mexico.
American Headquarters. Mexico.'
! Dec- 23- Except for decorating the
preat Christmas tree, preparations!
have ben completed here and the
; 2 the AnTerica
army has ever held outside of the
United States Organization will be
relieved from all except necessary
work, beginning with Saturday, so
I
