M
fc
NIGHT
EXTRA
.vsSTRAy.
NIGHT
EXTRA
y ro
"IV
. i
mraner
J?L amtsrJ' B. M. IB - BS SjS W BB 5 M IB ,& fvySiitocawLl ,
" . . . . e . .
m VOL. HI- NO. 87
vc
Kr
-. "ipeace
Jt CHi DHHPnVL B(FMttV.'!kVXirawPTraiir--stP .T .TiiiftKUEBia-. MHHF Affir. M '
i Trri "iiHF "iil" WMimIiiiiin HSt f a
; TMUff f'vifc- iiMTTTlHnHiMiiii' T" 1 if i'liTB"-r-Biir 9 P fit
i lit w BHBBHBMa JSf
" THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT AMONG THE CITY'S CRIPPLES ,
Llltlo Philip Penrose is discove-cd in the McCnll School Annex working
away on tho gif Li which ho is making- with his oVn hands for presenta
tion to his friends
lEISTMAS SPIRIT
-RULES 0VER-G1TY
yi ; .. .
yifost Prosperous, of All
fJfeflHTMakcs Happy R67,
day Sure for All '
PUKE THE POOR- JOYOUS
WH V '. ' '
Christmas spirit wliUm tools ,rojt-on
Suth tjltf yearn ago simultaneously with
gblrtli of tho Christ -Child In tho undent
ef Bethlehem. Is In full bloom 111 Phllu-
Sw))! today, extending Ita wonderful In-
it to every nook and corner of tho
Ha Philadelphia that (ltie old mclisace
the anitol choir, "I'oaoo on Karth and
E gwd Will Toward Men." Is rlmslnir out an
vr kfforo. for dayo tho face of men,
tmta and children throughout tho city
aye bfen lllunilncjl liy tho rplrlt which
fM torn with tho Babo In tho miuiRer, jnoro
10,00 years aco"Tho Blory of slvlnc
Wl tb splendor of rclf-jacrtnce have been
HWapllded in Philadelphia Uil Yulctlde
IMtt mora, thai ever before.
'evr has Philadelphia cxhblM such
wuEBi tor uio widotr, fiie orjman, wa
pW. tha Invalid ohd the unfortunato of
-f .-. HMU VVIIH4MVII Wfc W
jvytiDrreu Dy uio greaiesi era. Of pros-
qr In the hliory of the Unlttil States,
hrtslman uplrlt lias Mit Into hmos,
1H ttorea, lioepltalij. atyluma and
In iiianufeeturlni; plan la und bull-
fstabllihnienla heads of b'.e builness
Srtjpcnded to tho IrrrelstlMa ine-.wae
ancient Dclhlehem by dlitrlbutlng bo-
They will enter on Christina with
t& iAri ....--.. . .L.f . ..
fc'lt chr6 In tho nrnnrlt' of the last
r. Thousanda of workers who havo
pd bljrier wages durlrw 191 than any
Wis year are uIIIUIok their prosperity
Wkotbere hannv.
faij is tha last day. of the slropplnjr
??' tasl-mliuita shopper are surging
it. i . .. .' . . k.
gs-- mwuh upon in nearly oepieica
P f the merchandise mart
KONB TO BB FOfllGOTTlSN
ilWsht the last curtain rlll so down on
Aopsinff district, and tornorrotj' night.
a Eve) the enllra eJ'.y will make
rations tor the annual -reception to
-" tswitx Jima-coy and kim jr.
'ejty today thrilled "h'lr Uia nearness
irtstnian Eve- hey rohoplnjf and
Hag that nothjng rrlll. Interfere with
Ifwnsey 0f at Niek from lh poir re-
a "morrow went tnouo oi cnu
In Ph.Udlphla. will liasg up tbelr
ogs, na when their rr.gtbem tuelc
CllaiiJ an Taia TbUirtu. feluma SU
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
J&r PkiladtlpMa and vUiHityFair
wwnf eoltl twin lit, wittt. law
w degree; Sunday fair, mtn
wtie . temrwraturta;- Monday t-
r euuatmeu ana raooy
W)1 aentlt variable wind.
I45NGTO OV DAY
iteJH.
WAW4tlB R1VEX TBB CHAKQB8
cHeBTmiT srrKBT
Vlsr. . JUS m.tui.h vUr..l
n.o fw
T9ZD.H.
ti Mil nrr,'-ii -mi rrrl
mr &r&rmr t tTTTT"
m m
ttf),m
FIDELITY TRUST
BUYS IN BROAD ST.
Acquirc3 Property Bbuhded
l-Broad, Walnut, San- "
som and Juniper
PIUCE ,NOT DISCLOSED
JTho Fldcjlty -Trust Cornpanj!, of -523 to
3J1. Cliestnut strict. hK acquired wnlrot
of tho property bounded by Broad, AVnlnut,
.S'aiifoiii nnd Juniper etrrot.
Tho niinounccincut of tho ncqulsltlon of
tho property wbb mado by vlco Proeldent
J. C. Neff nt noon today. Jit tha state
ment JMr. 'yt said It wan tho Intention to
erect a largo ofllcn bulldlni: on tho site.
' Mr, Ncff would not Rlvo tho prlco at
which tho properly chanced hands.
Pinna for tho new bulldlni; have not yet
heon formulated, but It was stated by Mr.'
Ncff that nderiuate room will bo provided
for tha plllcca of tho trustjonipany.
Jfr. N'eft w Tery care'ful to tto that
It woe not .tho Intention to abandon tho
present properly of tho company nt Fourth
and Chestnut streets. It wan Inferred In
tho financial district that tha company In
tended to move the main oftlceti-to llrond
street nnd the old down-town o!TIcj would
simply be used nn a branoh. .
Thla properly, which Is kniiwn n tlto old
Upplucott properly, was at ouo tlino owned
by I'cllx Isiiian when be waw rronlnoit In
the rval estate business In Philadelphia.
Tho notion of the Fidelity In moving to
Uroad s(rct follows the action taken t.y
many other conoerns which lavo for years
been located In the eastern section of thw
city. -
I'AIR CHRISTMAS PROMISED
No Rain or Snow, bufCrlap Weather,
; Forecast
The Weather Bureau announced today
a Merry Christmas; Predictions are that
tbtiw will lo no rain or snow Chrhtmas
Day. and just enough erlspnee to lend a
real Christmas atmosphere. It will be fair
and cold, tonlsUl and tomorrow, rj
Tlth In-
creasing oioudlntss.
Olirer Remembers Senate Pages
WASIIINOTON. Deo. S3. Senator Oil.
ver. of Pennsylvania, and Senator Sauls.
bury today distributed liberal ehecks to
tha sixteen page tu the Senate. Senator
Oliver left Wasblpgton without making pro-.
VlsIOM tor nj ousiornary ajairiuuiMiu, um
wired the. money to B. A. OToole, tho chief
MB, teiay-
Week's Wage ss Christmas Present
rANCASTHH. V-, Bee. 3J. Tk Ham
lltaa Wateh Company. wh aetory h
serve sest week as holiday, h an
ncuiwed that all f Its M employ wUl
receive a. full weak was a ChrWom
ift. u awwnn to WW-
Refined 0,1 for 8po Advances
KW Yonlt IW SJ. T Standard QIJ
Couipany anmeuirted lin dvan otwtt OMt
in refld Mi la 'w eivrt to I Life,
TUB
trill not be iued on
Monday, DMfer SW
CHRISTMAS DAY
fjp Hall
M
v.
3
" ' "M""'Ha
BOY SERIOUSLY BURNED
LOOKING FOR SANTA
Childish Curiosity Gets Too
Close to Fire in Investigat
ing Chimnoy f
ALBERT DI nilLLIPI
With child lh wonder as to tho manner
In which Santa Claua could descend the
chimney at hU heme, four-year-old Albert
Dl Phlllppl, U 8utu Tilth street, got too
oUm to the kitchen fire, and was seriously
burned tWs raofatng. Tfee child was alono
at ltie tle. swt his motiwr. hWring hta
crle. ran frs 4 upstairs mom ard at
teapiwl to tsar att hl burning ctotheg, 8h
hsrwrtf was tourswl about lb lutads, arm
aw taf '
Palioeau WUsait, at tha Heventb and
CrfMiMf strrt ttkn. bearing the
ebrieks ! mother and son, rualwd lot
tfae house andbraw bi oveitcAat oer ttw
bjr. He took both to Uta Uouni Sinai ilos
l(,lftl, where Albert is la a very critical cun-
dlOoB
Jb txptaiuinK b (.:du. Hie mother
taj-s tb boy rm.y htiid of eUnta t:(aus
sat xefn vi j uuruu bout thf majR
ae ui whteft Mm sto abu wouW "er tb
lose on feruUnss v, uuu h thiuks
hi J tst tv door this morowg Is
Ms curtosMr.
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, DECEMBEU 23, 101G
- ant. &to&pttity
The earth's shroud is embossed
With gems of twinkling; frost;
The heavens annp with cold.
A wind mysteriously thrills,
Above the sleeping hills,
With music sweet nnd old.
The stnra snnR one December
And shnke with music yet;
For nye they will remember,
Althougtt the world forget,
The God-child'a birth-cry ringing
From out n lowly place
That set the plnnsts singing
In farthest fields of space.
From warm, sweet depths of sleep
Where little child-hearts keep
Their fnith until the morn,
Beyond the sunset bars
To shake the farthest stars
' Another song is borne.
Their hopeful dre.tms ascending
In waves of music flow,
A joyous chorus blending
With that of long ngo.
With song the night is teeming,..
Jh' How mute we arc, . ..,
Who have no fnith for dreaming
Nor wisdom of the star!
T. A. DALY.
'A
i
t
ssssmmmrt!m'i
BLIZZARD KEEPS
PEP IN BUFFALO
Severe Storm Cripples Traf
fic and Quaker Eleven Un
able to Continue Journey
HANDICAPPED BY DELAY
Dy NEIL MATHEWS
Captain of Term football tesin.
UUFIWI.O, N. Y.. nee :J. Huffalo Is
snowbound, and so Is the UnUerslty of
Pennsylvania football team. Ths Iteil and
Blue eleven arrived here late last night,
several hours behind lime and found that
It was impossible to get nut. as tratno Is
tint up wast of here, and 'no trains are
being ran' out nf Buffalp. It la ono of
the most severn storms In years, and lid
fowls, whq la managing our parly as' n
representative of the Philadelphia and
Reading Tlnlhvay. announced today that
it looks as It wo will be stuck hero or n
day of .two.
This snowstorm Is going In prove n
mighty severe hand loop to us unless It lets
up soon, as we probably will miss connec
tions In' Chicago and bo farted to renialn.
there another day. If this should happen,
we would. have osily three days" praattee
Hfter'u ons ride, and It would stuten the
boys up, "
When we left rhlladeJuhta wa had made
arraiigimetite to praclka in Chkaao today.
This would' hive ILmbaied the men up and
done them a world of good, but as It looks
now, Ifwlll b impossible to wastr the tlms
In ny hpipe town unices something un
foreseen turns up.
t'oaeh FoIwe.II said thla morning that he
nither vrouldriiccd several hours In Chi.,
cago, where we could practice, than to get
the extra day on the coast, and If arrange
meots oan be made with ;fce railroad au
thorities wilt stop anyway. Kverrbody
In the parly s very much peeved eicepllng
Charley Hcrjnlng, who lives here, and It Is
lucky we have ewls with us, as he oau do
more than an" ordinary manager of a foot
ball learn,
sevwaf g the boys braved the storm to
visit Wnnttfgai home, but the majority
were oonttfit to limber up by yalklng about
the statlfT(,
Card playg and lying. I meaa rsnalpg,
lio uken up the grester part of tho time
and everybody bad a good time until w
learned nw;n)tt3)ti w wro behind time
and that thHyinn was raging stronger
west of IlufTalo than the billiard we ran
IhW orvtha way bare.
Women Philanthropist Hies
NlfW CASil.W. Det, XHe, JJ-MWss 8uan
it. gpettswofA daughter ef the tats Rev. and
Mm. Jehu li. gfMMUwood, . lifelong resi
dent and ntd pmnibrupWt. died, of gen
eral debility, Wh was preskteBt and K
tuawber of b Bible luion Society of
America for many yeara Hr fathef was
pastor ef U Vint l'r nb Urian Churcli
fun -five yean- ieorge PWe. ppmii
nsu; ;oniey f PbJladliihw. la tuviJwr-ta-law
or 4MsMMSt
Certstsat.
m
"O LITTLE TOWN OP BETHLEHEM"
A It was on thesa rolling hills nearby that tho shepherds watched
QU ICE
:V?.
1 .
-.. .rbk:7 ...
SHACKLETON' SAILS TO RESC0E;MARQ0NED EXPLORERS
BUNEDIN, New Zealand, Sec. 23. Sir Ernest Sliacklett
famous, Antnrctlo explorer, snjled for-rort,cWalriies today In wi
tCort to rescue tho ten members of his expedition marooned near'
Itosn Harrier, Theso men bad only a scanty supply of provlsToha
when, the exploration sliip Aurqrs, 'broke her mo?rln"s8. In a gftie
, nearly two yearn o;;o( and Uio
i 'v ' .,! "i1
s
'If,1.
' CONCOURSE LAKE CROWDED WITH SKATERS
Thrro in skatljig today on Concourse Lnko In Knlrmoiint Pnt'k. An army of
devotees Invndod tho vast oxpntiso of the Inko tho moment the Turk Kunrds took
down tho dnuger signs. Contannlnl, Clustlno nnd other lakes aronot considered tati!
ns yet, but my he thrown npon tn tho skutern lator In tho day.
CHICAGO RESERVE BANK DECLARES DIVIDEND
CHICAOO, Dec. 23. A dividend uf six per cent per nrmuin, covcrlns the period
from April 1 to December 31, 1915., bus been declared by the directors of tho Federal
Itcscrvo Hank of Chicago. Tho dividend In payable to stockholders of record De
cember 27, 1916. "
TWO SHIPS AND CREWS LOST; ONE THOUGHT AMERICAN
HALIFAX. N. H., Dec S3. A largo unidentified schooner hns lwon-lo.it off
Dartmouth Point, Mahono liny. All on hoard are ticlloved to have pertsned. Another
wreck, believed t? be thu American schoonor WUHnm Mason, is at Irish I,odgo, near
Yarmouth. The body of one man Wa lnshcd In tho rigging.
, BRITAIN BUILDS MANY FREIGHT SIIIPJPOR'AFT ER WAR
IjONDON. Dec. 23. The llrltlsh flovern,ment wni shortly let oontrocls for the
construction of a large number of freight ships of standarlwd cargo, the Times
announced . today. They will be put in tha Oorarnmritt service. iThe foregoing
dispatch indicates that Kngland l itittlclpatlnp nennmiy'n program of morcantlie
marine expansion. The dlspatclies from Qerman eourrea liavo'statedthat tho Ger
man quve'rnment Is iHilldlng a mighty lltet of ronimorojal ships to be put ,ln com
mission after the w?r.) ' ;
DANISH IUNG RATIFIES: BILL TO SELL ISLES .
-
COPHNUAOBN, Dec. .4 Caily tho financial details, remain Ho be. setlleit In
the saia of tha Danlali Weat Indies to the United 8ta(esi,for. tSB.OOO.OOO, King
ChrlstlSn has approved the trtaiy nrovUlliig for tha sale following tho passage of
tho ratltleatlon hill by both liauso? of lllgsdag (Pnfllamwnt). The rattflcntloh will
be eent to tho United Btatea, '
U, S. BOND ISSUE IN SPRING ALMOST CERTAINTY -.
WAUINQTOK. Pec 33.--A ond Ipauo by the Government orly lrx t)i. spring
appears to b o, certainty, TrMury Department oftlelal admitted today. Tha.baJ.
ance In the Btasral fund, of Jje Trejusury la dllnlng at tho roto of auout I3$ipg,oqo
ij,.m9nth Tha actual net balanle. In the .fund Is now little more yia'n HO.OOO.OftO,'
l"anama Canal bonds, rather than one-y?ar Treasury certificates, wjll bo tasued, it
la understood. Secretary MeAiJeo farpra the canal bonds it It la necessary to raise
money in aueh manner. , '
READING PLANS TO, BOOST CITY EMPLOYES PAY
RKADINO, pa., Dee. . AIbumm averybody m tha pity payroll, tnaludlug th
hundred iDembem of the Poltoe Department resatvad Chrlatmas, presents today jrj
tL, fann of Ip4raa in salaries ranging from ten to fifty per eenj a the Uwdaj
ftr WIT, wWh wait laid befora Council fjr udAjHton. Incrwisea amtHitiUng'ti) .about
$0OOO a yaar havo bein Bgresd upon in the "1917 budget, the advaaaaa in the ptoliw
'Department alone amounting to HMflQ a, yr, ' - '
' WILL LAUNCH NATION.W'IDE PEACE MOVEMENT HERE
A natlon-wlde peaea movejnant will be launched in the Aejtdemy of Music on
January if, when leadJng pacifists from all ovar tho country wti gather to plead.
for peace and indorse Presjdt Wfttw's policy to end (he war, aooordipg t a dU
pateh from Washington, t4y. After tb movement y bti started In tbla oily,
wbleh was slc$t4 far tt "brotbary? kva" 4rit,. welugii a, atttHUjr oiwractwr
will b hW U Prt ot h coulstjy. ' WMt th movwet ftii mioU tha
poaiuon of President Wilaou, ha baa no ooa&WtUui with It, Tha ww-n h4iliil i$&
plan ara pro-Ally as wall a prtvSatwu '
1018. t tits feme l.tMu CoUmmt.
ttfitn tKfjp
NEWS
..-' . ?. f ", .v. .
' ' ', ,
?.wt : y' ..v-
'.-.
gravest fears "re fel,t (or tliem.
'.V4'.
t
: rl
PRICE ONE CENT
Palate
tts
rhoie by umrweod Und.rweod.
their flocHs by night.
BELLIGERENTS
MOREFRIENDLY
TO PEACE Ni3TE
French and German Press
Particularly "Interested"
in Wilson Plan
BRITISH CH A NGE TONE
London Phpcra Sny U.. S..- May
uavo opecmt imormauon
From Berlin
a ' u .' '
J'.OJfDOM. Dec. 33.
Tho London preis took ' "new taclc today
in figuring out whs PcostdeiitAVIlsoii sent .
his' eacoTnitel i1ral'!p'ulburstofmJr'',fc
dgnatlon having 'died down'mmewhat, edl.
tqrlala today began snee'ulatliig in the be
lief that tho American President has "gome-
thing up his sleeve,V
Borne had the Ideanhat tha note was based
on special Information which President Wil
son' had obtained as to. the exact .terms
which Oermany Is willing to make, and
that tha noto-iwu not an Indication of
anti-Ally neirtlmSnL
The two statements by tho American
Secretary1 of State Arising were held thor
mighly bewildering, but tho cdltoHabi agreed
they were a sldo Issua,
All. newspapers expressed the hopo that
the President's hint that pcaco inny bt
"Just around tho corner" might, luiyo been
based on nccret Information frpm Germany.
TAntS, Dee. 33.
While the Prench Foreign omca considers
the note of President Wilson and 'ex'ehangea
Ideas with her allies, the press la pointing
out that the document may force flermany
Into tho open with definite peace terms.
A noticeable feature of the press com
ment Is tho friendly tone.
Tho Temps, a newspaper that .Wields
considerable political Influence, admits that
the people want peace, but declares that
they are unwIUInK to lay down th'lr arras
until victory Unassured, In view of the' fact
that "war was forced up Ihrtn."
IIntranslgeant says It'wIU be Ipposslbis
for flermany to alSestep tho' request of
President Wilson thatahe terms ojf pac
be. inado known.
nisnws, Dec. t.
Kcenea't Inlereat mlaed with Jubilation
over the reviving prospects of peace was
aroused hero by news of President-Wilson's
peace note. Newspapera subordinated tha
war news aVd lengthy speculation as to
what tho British Premier meant In his
speech of 'fjueeday on the IJerlln proposal.
The move came when editorial comment
reflected tho publUS view hat peaco was
;ar off. In view of the Lloyd deogo. speech.
The Tageblatt had aptly expressed tha gen.
eral belief In Its editorial, i-onciudlng, "the
ab)ts between Lloyd Gj?f&dpolJt
' " . j i i. i.
CvnUmi'4 en Je Thlrfeea. Cebuaii feer
. ). i i i .i ipiiii i .li tifiT7 l in
PRICES QF TURKEY"
-..owM.GHytowEa.
"Fajiolfi," However, Bjrinf 38 Cent.
Big Shipment.May CattS Bigger
Slump Later -
Turkey prices ranged from thirty ta
thlrty-efght emta a pound today, wltn tha
beatgrada birds asjllsg at thjrjy-faur ta
tltlriy-Uva aeats from the "reasonable
lr, TJe "fauaj-" trade Vi hlgba
price, but- there wsf .rVatmtlveb fw
tales at that Ugure,
tn eenBeQuence; of nriaaa (ewer Uan p
TbaakagtvlBtr. the umM-gafthwd befeMU nt
tlw bousawivea asanas to hive been lifted
and tha tale ar brlak, Dlw aaM tkat
rwa mlglil drj wlltt Mw arrival at tfe
iaat iruate af'Mtaaa osle4j! of tMriua
eoMustMA t ttw mt markat. 'flu ,tv
nwnt w 4m V tV V Mrl 4y
ao. iMtr asflac tu taa fatii coaessm
li w,n M4 sit.
csfipei
