THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and colder to-day; to-morrow fair;
northwesterly winds.
Hitheit temperature yesterday, 44; lowest, 97.
Detailed weather, mall Mid marine report on pat 11.
he
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 114.
fWtl? "I?TT t" Greater New York, 1 Klfctwhf ,
UXNCi LiUlIN 1 Jersey City u Newark. I TWO CENT
NEW YORK, SATURDAY DECEMBER 23, 1916. Copvrioht, lilt. the Bun rrinttno and rublUMng AoHatlon.
84 MILE GALE
LEAVES HAVOC;
Trains Held Up for Horn's,
Tivps Mown Down and
Windows Smashed.
IVIITIHL'u
I1SI L lflfrO
MAXV MINOR
Most Hlotous Early Whiter
Dny Ever Recorded by Lo
cal Weather Bureau.
Autumn and winter grappled
yesterday .
In a bout for real seasonal aupremacy,
and winter, as scheduled by calendar,
took a fall out of the rail.
It was the most riotous first day of
winter that ever ha been entered In the
log of the Weather Bureau for this ,
neighborhood and bred the fiercest wind,
.mashing thing. , afloat and ashore, that
ever sent the official anemometer sing.
Ing a hurricane tune of 84 miles, the
highest regl.ter It has achieved on an I
Infant winter day In very many years. .
Tale, of d.....er and damage came from I
.11 points along the Atlantic coast, from
Virginia to Maine.
In these boroughs the force of the
gal was higher than at any other me
teorological station along the roast. For
tin minutes In the late afternoon the
bl.it from the frosty northwest stuck
at 74 miles. Its average for several
hours In the early evening was 70 miles, ,
and It got up to the terrific maximum
of 84 between 7 and fi o clock.
The hurricane that caused the wreck
ape was cential last night near Port
land, Me., after having ronred well
within the coast line only a short dls-
unce io inc west or .xiannnttan yester-I
day afternoon. Its westerly edge played I
havoc In the upper part of the State,
creating n blizzard In the neighborhood
of Hurtalo and causing a snowfall thai
held up scores of trains for from five tc
ten liours and stopped all trolley trafllc. I ,
Trnlns bound from the western part of r -Murray Hill section about Park
the State were many hours late arrlvlns ( avenue and Thirty-eighth street was
! ,heGnd Central Station. They, thrown Into panic this morning by a
ploughed through Immense dr fts created t ,, ... . ., .
by the unusual and gusty violence of the ,lre "mt dld ,0'"0u damage to the home
gale. I of Mm. Chntles T, Harney, widow of
Never has so much freaklh weather the former president of the Kulckcr
been squeexed Into a nowlmrn winter i tHKkir Tm.t n...,, ... u...
day In this latitude and longitude. There
was hall and rain in the morning, fol-
hall and rain In the morning, fol-
;d by a thunder storm that startled I
lowed by a thunder storm that startled I
rone wno rtaa supposed there could be no " winning rescue or tnree girls, ser-
such manifestation In this month. After 'vants In the house, Mas staged, when.
the thunder came a temperature of 44 firemen pulled them from the eaves of
and sunshine, which was merely momen- thn roof, five storim high.
tary. Walter Schlaer, n newspaper reporter,
'discovered the fire. He grabbed the
Boll Mils Nehool. nightstick of u Ixnvllclerod night wntcli-
In Philadelphia the lightning a'"mn '" '"'Iforin. smnshed In a window
more vivid and continuous limn here- n,,rt """'I1,1' through. He met James
about, nnd In Central Inllp I, the vv- 'a"ey, rallying his mother unron-
chimney of the high school building was T'011" Th'' n cried some-
truck by lightning nnd two class rooms t , l'K 1"'ut """ K'rl upstairs- nnd
were lamaged. Some of the nui.lls ran
out Into the rain, but were recalled by
teachers, and after their fears had been
allayed the sessions were resumed. No
children were In the wrecked class
rooms.
Hundreds of anxious men and women
crowded tlrand Central Termlnnl anx
In n alt t&-nitlticr tnr nn- nf trains nv.
:
i i i t a ....
the holidays. Trains bound east from1""" estimated at more ban 10.000 the .
Buffalo and other points northwest were j t,xh "mount aklng in the price. .
.1-1 1. ... .1.- Mess col eel on of ant uues. inneitr .-n un,i
tile was disrupted. Trains from Albany I
lo were very late because of
waits for the Ruffaln trains to reach the I
city.
The New Haven also had trouble, a
short circuit occurring somewhere be-1
1 "itii r-i.iiiii.,1 u uuu .tew luin. 110 '
three sections of the Itoaton Express
ere nearly two hours tate.
The Pennsylvania n&llroiifl way nlsn
hacfly hit by a storm west of Pittsburg.
The Keystone Express, due nt 1 MS P. M.,
was ten hours late, and the New Yorker,
due at 1 :.12 P. M was delayed seven
hours. Few of the expres'es came In on
time. The Southern as well as the Wfst
rn trains were nffected by the blizzard.
Apeldents In City.
In an effort to save his hat Chirles
Haines, shoe manufacturer, of Lowell,
Mo.. Mnn.J hi. h.l . hi. 1 j t
L,.II1M (it,, I, IU IIIC IIT-IUI III
front of a Fifth avenue bus ot Thirty-1
fourth street and was knocked down
by the bus and taken to New York Ho-
pltnl with a broken leg.
A plate glass window was blown nut
ef n drug store In the Time,' rtulldlng
et Forty-second street and Broadway,
snd Patrolman Franklin Urunes of the
traffic Kiuail, who went over to protect
rasfers from Injury by Jagged pieces that
still fell from the big window frame, was
hlmt-elf badly cut by a piece that fell
on his head, Un was sent home nfter
lieatincnt by a Polyclinic Hospital sur
ffon. Trees hurled down by the gale fell
cros tho F.dlson company wlrfs In the
tt..l I I-... T.1 it
si .niversicy avenue uou,rBi ru...... ..
r..-,;i arid was taken to lianem nospi ai
rltli a fractured ikull and Internal In
Jtirles. shower of situs that could not stand
the mighty force of the gusts hurt
eeral persons and scared many more
In the Klngtbrldxe section of The
Ilronx many tree were blown down find
numoer 01 ngui ami ibicifiiuiio t.n.i
put out of commission. At White Plain (
venue ana i3ct street a portion or a
suhwsy station under construction was
wrecked.
At Norfolk and Cape Henry, whete tho
ale attained eighty miles, there wh.
cisali of stfterut sUamshlpt that
'ragged anchors, but none was airlnusly
dainuged,
Th forecast for this day Is for clrni
klet and colder temperature, the mer
cury, which wa down to 1 at mid.
night on th official towtr, may drop
II.
ne nhborhnod of II ghbr dgo and knocked V. , ; 7. ' . ' i, ihn u-lri whom he ,,. ," "ul" """ ""'" "1-
out the electric service of that nelch- r-mce. got back from the war yester- lth the mn whom ho expected to Rr( for underground noises and sub-
horhood for o time ' Wh"' '" "i"'1"1 fro"' the Touralne marry. Some one Insulted her and De mrl,, signals and tapping all the prl-
Mam women who carry a Hrger ssll e,,ul wl,k'h "", Krenc" Government, Martini went aft.-r l.lm. Others Jumped v31e sl-ks of Information available they I
w.ie dh4n?he bestowed upon him for conspicuous' In. and soon the fight was general. Cot- ,,nVl, collu tn , cnm.llltln thnl ar.
blown down In narrow streeTs tliat were '"v,r' um,cr flr' w,ls "oP visible. In ter raiiie running ip: there were .hots. Hv,,, ot , ,,I1V(. w,h ,he nllvc branch.
wmeVted ha c,w of thrvlnd Samuel fact this boy of IB, who had seen a life, and Cotter fell dead, He Martini was .,,, ,,. ,,.,. , nl)ou, , t , -
tomerted Into caves or tne wiiiu. samuei f n,iventure In a year nnd a half, arrested, and then came tin- Indictment ,1..., .
Kailson. tailor, of 59 West Fordliam 1,. Z 1, w,, ilrtn't , I, , for murder In the flr.t degree. ' V, !
t -..!. nun IM'I-II III liUlll mi ( lllir, 1 ot -..t Ill- In har xihn mnt 1. 1 m -n . ,. .
,1 ...- I .-., nt n fitl1.t -Of ... - Mill-It IUI" M " IIMIIUHMI irji
,. . tfis r.jiiiit..iff ' ",. l,i,.i.iiilvn (ini-noi- 'I'l-viiMf 'a compiele cessation or nosiiiuies witnin uhleh leisirted at 5 -10 o'clock this nf-1 war map wnuii t-tiii.."j .....- -
Hose of 2193 Fifth avenue, was hit by 1(t exploits! 11 theIlne of duty have, Ht'plCM'Hllltl C liailiei lljill? mnnUll) which I'lH'rt'd at , "U'.ck u s 1.1 war ixtcnm, lm)meniry aspect
sign mown rrom a grocery at iw heen recited by will irwin and other . ,,1 Tlnmnfi'iif , I I in., of the situation. It knows that the Ger-
Flfth avenue and was patched up by a correspondents, and some of his own 0 III ip IMllniLlltis tllll WAVx;s 8 HOIIPQ 1 -ri-lner will i.rol.al.lv be sentenced on ; mat note Is lacking In preclseness. sub-
l arlc-m llospltsl surgeon. One of the letters lo his family have appeared In . f , .. . , t-OFS tXOHl WAVLa 8 JtOUKS. , T ,l er wl 1 pr m. m r scope. It Is a mano-uvre of
tin eo glided spheres on a pawnbroker' Titr. HUN. JI II llilll IIOII . - T iik . a. ! J " Jic-w lr.l. ' 1- i." V. . T jioi.. The snare, of
T,s,zri i.wiassr-i's !""' " ' rr;.'::. 11 - BJzk
nae gas or an odd kerosene lamp, were umn uie w ",,,""";'!'',,.. . last night, barely escaping drowning When the Jury came in and were .. Ti, war was mposed upon us by
nmalcsnl"8 'nd W',hUt ' VTTT A TsTwACKINO T0RRE0N l"xn i cre, Jo r .lutlmT.: nfter terrifying Adventures: beginning uske.l If they hail I agreed u,.ou a verdict I Knutlo greedy of conquest. Now we
niunlcatlon. VILLA IS A-IAL-i-inU lUKKtUW. l exus. pr. , . red .1 , 1 l r. lutio 1 10 ()e Hfu,n(H)n . toremun jepllcd: "1 -i , a victory which alone create
THIEVES STEAL GATES,
TIE UP WATER SYSTEM
Itobbers Go Into Aqueduct
Ttinnof ami Carry Off
Ilig Bronze.
Hrookll'n. tinrtlelnntlnn In thn ben.
be delnyed nt least a month unions the
I'""0" who burgled the aqueduct shaft
Ulldrr 1'imiur Mm, nr. la rainhl unit "
, made to five back the heavy bronse
water gates and bronie operating lever
so necessary In operating the system.
Lupfer a Itemlck of Broadway and
Twenty-fifth street, consulting engineers
in cnarge or installing the water supply
system under and In the vicinity of
Cooper Square, discovered yesterday ,
iniu ine two bronie gates, weignmg
more than 100 pounds apiece, and the
tne
beinMyienrorn'rhndV cnhTrn'
me tunnelled out rocks about fifty feet j sinucnea into judge cram pari 01 ueu
beneath the surface of Sixth street, i f ral Sessions Court yesterday, with an
,hte7andT
mannfdrimor. r..mii. i. nrU nn iho hair was white, the dead, colorless white
system had not none far enough to war-
rant their installation. Not caring to
Z,ZZ"Z
- ate9 nnJ tvcr lnto tle nafl and then
located it In a recess among the rocks.
No one dreamed that thieves could
? n'nr"' ," ' CS I
.n - ,nc,r. ,.ld ye.tcrilay ,nat a K0od
deal of skilled training was required to
handle the bronie and get away with It,
A report was made to the Police De
partment and Detective Martin Sheri
dan was assigned to catch the gate
thieves.
BARNEY HOME BURNS
FOUR MAIDS SAVED,;
I
Soil Tllk.CS Mother,' Ovei'COIllC,
to Street K.vcitenicnt in
Cherry Hill.
.. , u ' .... I
. " , .' .
,h" neighborhood. In the midst of it all
I
,n neighnorHo.l. in the midst of It all
i"l'"-""r "rl" ! siory. lie round
stairs. He could not go back for the
others.
A squad of men went to the roof of
Mrs. George H, H rd's home, next door,
and pulled the maids across lo safety.
ii was some lime past I o clock Iw
fore tht Are wit reported under con-
ltrol. Th ilnmuct to tho hn filnna
Palnt'iis left by the late head of the
Knickerbocker.
U. S. MAY BUY CANAL ZONE.
pni,Mnin . objection to Sale,
n Knvoy Here.
Wasiiinoton, Dec. 22. In a statement
here to-day over his signature Minister
Porras of Panama says the acquisition
from Panama of complete sovereignty
over the Canal Zone, as suggested re
cently by Mnjor-Gen. Goethais, "Is not
an Imposilhle thing, either morally or In
. 1. .. 1 1 .. 1. . f .,intlnn.l Inn.
Tii Minister's statement iintien roil In
i a letter reentlng a published suggestion
that the t'nlted States take over not
, X
, ,' ' ,
lnr Dl 1
Canal zone but the whole terrl -
the Itepuhllc of Panama,
.
.. ..
1 "TNE KID HOME FROM
" -svrin. a viii
W AD UITU tlCfflD ATlfklU
TV Hit IT II 17 1C l IMtXH 1 1 IWf
.Julian L. H. Allen Arrives'
From the Front After Con
spicuous Hravery.
Jullun I.. 11. Allenr'ymngrst driver
rAl''IU IU I"-! M INVI llilll Ull
n..t Ill- lalhas utho mnt 1. 1 m -n
,h.,oard. allif to his mother nnd four
an(, EMcr wllen thPy greele(i
him In the Allen home In Pelham Manor.
He k lil he had don- nothing worth
talking about.
Allen got Into tho French nmbulnnr
service when he was nrteeii years old,
l M(.rinrd Heport
In Kl
Pa
Tell of Baltlr.
Fl Paso, Tex.. Dec. 22. Francisco
Vi la's forci began a attack on Tor-
flrmed report, received her toluy. The
battle w-a. said to be In progress a ...wn.
A report that a de-i..-rat Uiltle whs
on was said to hav Wen received by
Gen. Francisco Murgulu at Chihuahua
city by wlreie from Torreon. villa
wa reported to hav punned BermeJIIIo,
twenty-five mil north of Torreon. yee
terday. fftC south with hi ooMund.
th. A,..i. imlm 11 r,.m , . oarner. was mu waiKii c ill 1 nu lironx 1 u..i.ti... t...i. n .... ...
LEFT HIS YOUTH
IN DEATH HOUSE
Three Years in Chair's Sha
dow Makes Do Martini ,
Old Man at 20.
Si A W
iO (.0 TO DOOM
Pleads Guilty to Manslaughter
to Escape Living
Torment.
At a .1ar. .nu nnA wnilitt hnV. fill!
- " "" for sixty year, old a he
of extreme uge, tils checks were sunken
. f thc,0 teeth behind them to
" then, Jacked Into place, and In his
face were myriad lines and wrinkles.
fnch forming Its deep shadow In his
pKni .k(n
. -houMer. were slumped
ZXSlZTllX far
bock, shone with the Intensity of youth
for life, the only signs in his appear
ance. In Ms bearing, that signalled the
possible remoteness of death.
Sixty years old he looked, and Is in
the sum of tortures piled one upon the
other. And yet he Is Just 26 years old
by actual reckoning.
Charles De Martini Is his name, and
In the past forty months he had twice
I been arraigned In the Criminal Courts
iiutiiiing for the crime for which he was
sentenced yesterday. In the past three
.ears ne had spent twenty-seven montns
In the death house of Sing Sing.
Sent Mnrk for Xriv Trial.
ICach time he was taken there he had
never felt certain ho would leave on his
own feet, but each time (he Court of Ap
peals had Intervened to send him back
1 for a new trial.
Hardly more than a boy when he first
heard the sentence of death pronounced
upon him, the sights he saw In thHt little
room and the thoughts that filled his mind
had made an old man of him. The police
measurements prove he tost two Inches
of his height.
When he left there the last time for a
new trial he made up his mind never to
return again, no matter what the cost of
cvnslon. So under the direction of his
... ,.ou.h1. .
James V. Osborne, he
. . , utv .
E, -d bew in-
nt.i..ii .niiiv m m,.n.innifhi.r niihniinh
: hn(, JV ,', ri .,, ., 'MnviC..d
0f murder lu the first degree,
Judge Crnln, mindful of the punish-
ment Inflicted uvon tho young man since
his first arrest, was merciful, and lm-
posed the minimum sentence of live
years.
Ie Martini slumped forward and
would have fallen had not Mr. Osborne
held him up. Then he stood up. mid In
P! shout, with tears streaming
'lown hl far.-, said:
"Judge, thank ou. thank ou.
lines Hack lo Prison.
That was all. He was led from the
loom to bo taken back to Sing Sing
later In the day, but Instead of lelng
pluced In the death house, his old home
there, he was put In a cell In the main
body of the prison.
Three years ago when he stood In
. . Vi .t. . v. .. i
,0 w,lcbhe has just pleaded guilty De
Mnrtlnl was an erect and alert young
...........v, i hi.
,Pc.e. but able to hide this with the
.elasticity of spirit of good health and
youth.
Since then be lias seen forty men puss
ti.....i. th,. nitl irrm iloor at nne end
of the doith house
flecker and the four gunmen were
among the number. Hut twice the Court
of Appeals had upheld the arguments
of l in Mirtlni's liwyers nnd had islven
of Ho Martinis ia ers ami nail hi en
him u new chance to fUht to prove his
Innocence. ...... ,
Once he fought, but the Jury con-
vleled him. That was why this last
time when he learned that District At-
lorney Hwaiui wai preparing iu ry mm
curly 111 January his nerve failed and1
! offered to plead guilty to man -
I slaughter, to anything that would 'not
1 carry death upon conviction.
Ills first conviction was on December
1, 1313: on May 28, 1915, he was again
convicted,
De Martini can now speak Kngllsh, all
of It learned In the death house.
"The only thing that held me up dur
ing thoe terrible months," he said yes-
tenia)' when he liail recovered somewhat
from his breakdown In court, "was a,
I'T."" '.T 1 . w".u1'' '"'v'r
lOlll I SaW go
through the Iron door. Of course- there proposition, from one that It will snow
were times when I felt blue, u-rrlbly to-morrow to the probable date of the
blue, but something told me I would Pllll f ti, ,irl.l. have turned their nt
ueyer be e ec rocutcd. tendon t this pence business alsmt
Do Martini was convicted of hav lmr .. 1.1..1. i,.,.-. i, ..,1 1
hnl nnd killed Policeman Patrlelr f,...l""r" i ... " ' 11
- . . - .
of ler on August 1, 191.1. lie Martini, a'
oarner, wan um w.iikhik 111 1 iiu iiioiix
...Asns ...
HHUfUit IU ftK tfcVi .
TARIFF ON IMPORTS
.
tit. tit, ittru. I ti ir 11 tiiir1.ll hf.rfTiinl.il ml I
Mloieni tariff of 10 per rent, on all lm -
ports except salt, Including thn'o al
leady taxel snd those now on the free
list- Mr. Garner announced he 1
"ntroduce the measure after the
Mr. Garner announceil lie would
lioll-
s and
. "; p 3 S ';; lnl,lv
( vtN .,,,, TreJllry condition a).
, ,,,... , the' end of the curient
n,m ell. , Keneral revision of (he
turlfT is hinted at by some of the Deiro-
era Is, with u tendency upwurd.
do jo rit'KiiiiBirr, n. c roit tun
HOraUAYV. Writ er wlr Carolina Uetei.
4v,
CLARA WARD'S
ESTATE MILLION
Fortune of Former Princess
Chiiuay, Who Died in
Penury, $1,174,935.
OXE-THIKI) TO HUSBAND
Children by First Marriago
Get Most of Residue in
Trust Fund.
Chicago, Dec. 22. Although sin lived
In penury during the later years of her
life, dependent upon a pittance doled out
lo her by the conservator of her estate.
Clara Ward, once the Prlnccsu de
Chlmay, who died several days ago In
Italy, left 11.124.935.96 In personal prop
erty, and $50,000 in real estate.
The amount of her wealth became
known to-day when a petition for Icttrrs i
testamentary was filed In Probate I
Court here by John W. Gary. Practical- j
ly all of tho estate goes to Giuseppe
flloclardl, the station master at Naples,
for whom she deserted her Magyar
lover, Janczl Illgo ; ond to her two chil
dren by her first marriage. Mane de
Chlmay and Prince Joseph de Chlmay.
Mrs. Clarence L. Blakeslee of Chicago,
a cousin, receive 115,000. The estate.
Is divided Into three trust funds.
Had Million olrl.
Although she started In life as a girl
of 17 Just out of a convent, with an
Income of 140,000 a year and an estate
of $4,000,000 from her father, Capt
Kben Ward, the greater part of her
wealth vanished within a few vears. It
went for the most part to the men of
high nnd low degree with whom she
associated 4n Kurope and she was con
stantly tangled In a mare of suits and
counter suits.
At the time of her marriage to the
late Prince Joseph de Caraman-Chlmay
$S00,000 was settled upon her husband
to pay his debts. When she left him,
eloping with the Hungarian fiddler, Rlgo,
lie sued for divorce and received $300,
000 more and $1.1.000 a year alimony.
At that time her uncle, executor of her
estate, stopped her funds until her
financial difficulties were overcome, and
Mie and Hlgo were forced to go on the
stage to suivport themselves. Rlgo got
$1,000 a month and she. as his partner.
received a salary, the amount of which
was not published.
When the flood of money from her
father' bequest began to pour In again
to the tune of between $35,000 and fCO,
000 a year "la bellh Chatelaine," who
had lost her title as Princess de Chlmay
through her divorce, went with ber lover
to the home of his parents nt Htuhlwels-M-nberg.
Hungary. It was only a hut.
no nt place for them, she thought, so she
bought a handsome home with several
acres of ground.
In 1901 the details of her life to that
d.ite came out when a Jury In the Pro-
hate Court of Chicago In a written
verdict branded her ii "spendthrift" and
appointed her uncle, Thomas I,yon, con
servator of her estate. Since 1894, It was
thown, she had spent $400,000 In ad
dition to her yearly Income of nearly
$50,000.
"PrUonrr" of Creditors.
In the previous two years alone h.
LfSirt
' : Dt-m w n"A r.,u J"" ' ?,i'r,0n"
i ere nj iter creditors until her uncle
5Mi; ... .
. " '?V?"?;ho"'l,.h.ri' .'
hail squandered fortunes. Once In Paris
m' !mM 'v'-0'0 r pair of diamond
I earrings wnicn sno panned soon atter
for "1'n0ft ml wvfr redeemed. She
h"ght twenty hats, and twenty gowns in
' ".."- """ w'nm
weok. She leasedO.eatres for private
,lu'i"1lc"1, m rhartered steamboats for
u (rI)(I Wni tl)e nothing
, J.w to ,.;, er lnoney 0 ,, ,hr
i gold to cabbies and beggars. Then, pen-
,, me(1 on borrowings and In
' ,, , ller allowance came again,
ony to start another wild run of spend-
i ing.
Mtti Iiub been known nf her mode 4f
1 living during the past few years. Int
May, 191f, her mother, airs. Catherine
Ward. Moi row, died. She cut Clara off others about questionable campaign con.
with only H.Oflo out of an estate of n Haitians that It might serve i whole
more than $1,000,000. i Home purpose to have the peace tip
looked Into. Then- iiirjiears to lie no
1 TO 2 ON PEACE IN 90 DAYS 1 doubt In the minds of the Consiess
. .-.,. . disclosure of this information mid they
Alton I l,-00 Plnred nt I lirsr (,p(t,( valuable aid from the Admlttls
(1 this on the Cnrb. 1 tratlon, which h evinced a vencliant
,.,,, i,rUers, following their long es
tabiisiu-d custom of being perfectly win.
. I It th. , til 1 1 m nr. .lulu t I...1
ill uie paiit-rs rt-vemi)'
Afllr reading all
the messages and
. urb )estt ril.vy several pessimistic Indl-t
v:du'ils ilec'ded to take a chance, nnd as
a result bvoheis now- hold something
over J 1.200. placed at tho prevailing
1 "' The "peace In ninety days" prop.v
slllon Is the only one orrereit. To win
1 the betlnr has lo put up 12 to every tl
, pi iced by the broker, and there must Ik.
, 'V r7' ' ,e 1 "
HCll.lt u. III.-? u.lttvw iiriiirn ill... r- .null
an hour. When the gale whipped the
Sound Into a good sized sea they were
driven on to a ledge about lSo yards off
Wltzel's Point View Grove, nearly oppo.
site 13Sth street on the Astoria side.
From 1 n clock In the afternoon until
11 lust night they alternately worked to
keep the boat from filling. They finally
decided Ihey would have to make a try
for shoie. Tnklng off their clothes they
leaped Into the water. The swim against
the hlcb wave exhausted theni . and
they gained th ibor only after de
perat atrui si.
it. , . Itf i w. A . Wl. 1.
CONGRESS HITS
AT STOCK TIPS
Who Profited by Advance
Knowledge of Wilson
Notes? Asks Member.
BILL ORDERS AN INQUIRY
Secretary Lansing Says He
Wjll Welcome Thorough
Probe by House.
Washinotom, Dee. 22. Representa
tive William It. Wood of Indiana, a Re
publican, Introduced a. resolution In the
House to-day calling for an Investiga
tion by a committee of five member of
reports that large sums had been made
on sales of stocks n Wall Street In ad
vance of the President' notes to the
belligerent Power.
"I will uncover the facts about the
stock speculation that has hung upon
the President's messages' or I will fix
the responsibility for blocking uch an
investigation," said Mr. Wood to-day.
Rumors of a big speculative pool hav
ing cleared up a fortune on tho Presi
dent's move have stirred up a lot or
Congressmen and It Is likely the Wood
resolution will receive considerable sup
port not only from Republicans but from
some of the Democrats.
Tex I of the Resolution.
The resolution In full Is as follows:
"ItetoWrA, That a commlttJe of five
Representatives be appointed by th
Speaker of the House to Investigate nnd
make report as to whether or not any
one high In the administration of gov
ernmental affairs In the United States,
or any relative of any one high In au
thority In governmental affairs or the
United States, profited financially, either
directly or Indirectly, by the fluctuulons
or the stock marKct occurlng on Thurs
day, December 21, 1916, following the
two contradictory Interpretations given
to the public from the office of the Sec
retary of State concerning the note of
the President of the United States dated
December 20, 19 IB, to the belligerent
Powers."
Secretary Lansing when he heard of
the movement made In the House this
afternoon snld he would welcome such
an Investigation and hoped the resolution
would pass.
Referring to stories printed In New
York of the rumor that were going
around In Wall Htreet, 'one "newspaper
even going so far a to mention a
broker's name who was one of tho largo
contributors to the Democratic campaign
fund. Representative Wood said: "If
these ugly stories have no foundation It
Is due to all concerned that the facts be
determined. We ought to clear up the
matter."
Mr.Wood said that he did not expect
any action on his resolution until nfter
the holidays, no sain tnai ii some oi
the Morlcs he heard err correct even
diplomats had mado money on short
sales.
Known In Wall Street Tlr.t.
1
The fact that the President was to
send the notes to the belligerent Powers I
was known to brokers In Wall Street
before It was known lu Washington, out
side of a small circle. Newspaper repre-
sentatlves here who heard reports float
Ing back from
n Wall Street about the lm-
pending notes being "peace notes' and
who Inquired In the usual Administration
. iri.. fnr Information were met with
dmlnis that gave the Impression that no
' M1Ph movo was contemplated.
if on reflection the resolution of Mr.,
v0,i ,0es not go far enough to accom. ,
Pllsh that purpose l,e will broaden it or
V... .... it..i-. f .1.- ii
which will consider II. may .lo so. If an
Investigation Is ordered It will be broad
enough to bring out the facts of the
whole matter. Full powers will bo con
ferred to summon witnesses from New
-.---I. n.1 lt.,lilnptrMi lnltnlltit. utittf
i.. uti.l In 11 fllitelnitlirf. nf
itork transactions If such should appear
m i, i.orilnent to the Innulry.
Itepubllcans say that there has been
? much talk by senator owen anil
! r,-,. itivtttluiitlons. Doubt Is exnri-sst'il.
however, lis to the power of congress
lo wiing Information as to the diplomatic
ictUltv on the stock market which
a matter or curient yossip.
TEIPER FOUND GUILTY,
BUT IN SECOND DEGREE
Coiivictt'd of Killing: His
Mother .lury Takes N'ine
Hours to Decide His Kate.
. ,
.
lli'HAi.o, Dec. 22. John Hdwaril
. Telper Is .guilty lu the second degiee
of the murder of 111s moinrr in inei
mi chard Park load on the night of .Inn. 1
30 wn, le ver,iCt of- the Jury!
We have. We find John Kdvvsvd
Telper, the defendant, guilty of murder
in the second degree." He completed
the sentence above the sobs of tho
Telper family. An ugonUoil cry fol
lowed. It was the wife of the defendant.
Telper' knee, sugged, nnd he would
have fallen had he not been caught
from behind by a deputy. Placed In
bin chair he sugged forward, nohg .bak
ing Ids body.
"This Is not tHlrl" he shrieked.
While the roll was taken Telper wa.
etruggllng with the deputies, crying
again, "Thl lin't human I" HI brother
finally calmtd him.
U. S. AS PEACE AGENT HURT;
WILSON- TO TELL ENTENTE
STEP WASNOT PRO-GERMAN
Kaiser to Give U. S. Terms in Trust
W' ASHINGTON, Dec 22. Germany will Inform President Wilson
confidentially of the terms upon which she Is ready to make
peace. ,
This is the statement made to-night in circles close to the Imperial
Government and may have an important bearing on the role which tho
United States Government may pltly in future exchanges of views be
tween the wairing nations. It comes from a source which so far has
accurately predicted Germany's action heretofore.
It it strongly mpha.txad that th German peace term will ba
communicated to the United State Government solely for tht Gov
ernment' guidance and not for the information of the Entente. It i
not probable the term will be delivered in specific. orm, but enough
will be made known, it 1. explained, to acquaint President Wilton with
the aim of the Central Power in the pretent war.
It is not probable that any reference to these terms will bo con
tained in the formal reply which the Imperial Government will make
to the President's note. The reference to terms probably will be com
municated in confidential cables cither through Ambassador Gerard in
Berlin or through Count von BcrnstortT, the German Ambassador here.
This will bo done very soon.
. In Teuton quarters the prospective action of the Imperial Govern
ment in making known its terms confidentially to President Wilson is
characterized as representing the absolute confldcnco which Germany
has in the United States as a medium of initiating negotiations to
bring the war to a close. It virtually makes the President not only
a mediator but the custodian of Germany's interests in the expected
peace parleys.
The German move is admittedly another full fledged indorsement
of tho role the President has assumed since he sent his note to the
belligerents.
WILSON ERRS,
FRENCH VIEW
"Temps" Holds His Propositi
Perfect In Form, but Wrong
in Substance.
Sptcial Cable Dfpotch lo Tan id.
Paw, Dec. 22. President Wilson's
peace note Is published In the Temp
to-day. The newspaper accept the
form of the note as perfect and then
discusses Its substance.
The Temps, which carries great politl
ral ueisht. say:
"It certainly seems that the Wash
ington Cabinet In Its desire for pence
has neglected to look the problem lu
tho face ami weigh the real evidence.
President Wilsons tunaamenuu vi.ui
dates far back, to his refusal to pass
upon the Initial responsibility for the
.... ...1... t v. .., rrminia ir
I!
war. .iui ge "i.n, ,
belMKercms r.v mum t , .
nrari that one of them de-
iiw.ti.w- hroke the peace while the
,)ther M, everything to keep Itr
The Temp remark mai friwiueui
Wilson seems to se In Chancellor von
iinlluec's sneech a declara-
,,on (lf rop,.ct for Uie r:
IKIUfl (11 small
! ... nm! asks:
,.C(in one forget In this connection the
wrong of Austria against Serbia -. tne
wiongs of Germany against llelglum?'
Durable l'em-e PhukM.
After saying inai ine win i"
fnruinl bv Germany In her peace pro-
J posal- presents only an "trd. mo
ir.entnry appearance of the situation, the
TYiups concludes:
"The wish or tne inuen rmn iui
pence was ours and that of our allies
thlrtv months ago. The war w-.s lm-
thirl
( n.,i mi ui bv a people eager for con
j quest. nd now we want that victory
whl. h alone will cieaie a nurauie
poiiOe
The .Ifnf In says Ihn President thinks
Von Hethmann-llnllweg's recent speeches
show Germ my as declaring herself ri
spectful of the rlBhts nf small Powers.
"Can the value of such declarations
be Judged without taking Into account
utila's attack on Serbia," the piper
continues, "and Germany's attack on
llelglum, nlso the later crimes, such as
the deportations of tho Uelglans? Can
words bo put in the same rank as acts?
"That war Inflicts losses upon pen
...iu u rertnln. No belllL-erent can
lsnvni,i it entirely. Hut there are losses
...a i.u. tin the one nanu mcrt iuf
tin- inevitable consequences ot a state of
war visit" "t sea, blockades, prize
courts on the other hand are nssas
slintlons, violations of written and nat
uril laws it-gulatlng International re
l it'lpn". neutral ships torpedoed, women
and chlldien dinwiied. Can one such
single net ! imputed to the Allies while
Gerinanv codifies such acts Into a sys-
I "The 1'nlted Slates suffeis through the
' war That's undeniable. Hut the
. Culled States suffers by the fault of
,hoi who wished and who unchained
., w.iri nn i'iinc.1 r-uiiv- -.,i.i.w. ....
,get thnt rr.mce is fighting for Inde-
oeiilence. as once France aided the
,, ;.(,, lo flght for Its Itidepen-
, d,,llC0.
.f )U,mrninry .
" .. '. ... .' , ., ,,.
"Tho unite. " ""'"'" ",.
win win a victory
u durable pence, 11 victory which will
prevent a if turn of uggrcBslon, which
will save us nnd tho neutrals from the
present horrors, the oonsoquences of
which nffcel neutrals.
"In this firm resolution, confirmed hy
the wholo Kntenle, America will tlnd
only a stated guurantce of Its own
par'lno aspirations. It cannot find It In
the German word, so often violated.
Any support, even uioinl, now given to
Germany only aid her to escupe by dl
ploniacy from Iho responsibility for the
Continued on Second Page.
KING'S SPEECH
REPLY TO NOTE
All London Kelievcs Ruler
Warned Wilson There'll
Be No Peace.
futclal Cablt PtstKitfh lo Tnr. Sun.
IyOSDON, Dec. 22. King George's
speech In proroguing Parliament is de
scribed by a high authority as a direct
and unequivocal reply to President Wil
son's peaco note and to Germany's pro
posal. In terse but decided terms tho
Mug's speech llatly rejects nil idea of
peace,
Great Ilrltalu is thrilled to-night by
.. , , , 1 ,i.
the speech as It never has been since the
war started. It atllrms in language of
n directness which Is not usually asso-
elated with declarations by the ruler of
the Hrltlsh Umpire the Inflexible de-
termination to continue the war no mat-
ter how long it may lust until the cause
for which tho cmplie entcrvu thu war Is
entirely vindicated.
The ruler's call to the empire to exert
Its utmost strength for the attainment ; mentary staiement of the secretary 01
of complete victory has aroused great on- State was made without the knowledge
thuslasm In a nation sullen and resont- f the President. Apparently It came at
f ul at President Wilton's nolo, and won- "rst as much of a shock to lilm as to th
dcrlng w hat line ot action the Govern-! public, Mr. Lansing has denied specif,
ment would take. This evening It Is . ;ll- that lie was sent for by the Prel
brimming oier with satisfaction at the lnt ytt.tcrd.-iy after his statement waa
King's declaration Issued, Nevertheless, his hurried visit
The desire for' a cessation of the to the White House followed by his sub
slaughter Is greater here than anywhere ,"',l-,t statement has continued to ex-Im-.
but thn desire for peace Is com-' wlilespund comment, particularly In
plett-ly overshadowed by a grim determl-! v'w "f the manner In which the original
nation to i-ecuin a victory. The party . statement was toned down later. Itumor
favoring peace 111 tills country Is an ab-1 were set op font to dny that Secretary
eolutt-ly negligible quantity. It Is mil-1 Lnnslng Intended to resign. They met
ers.Uly agreed that I.loyd George lias1""!! an unciiuivucai iirami ai mu man
scored the greatest triumph In his career
111 correctly Interpreting the national will
to ecu things through to the bitter end.
Ilefiisnl l.ttnUril I'nr.
Statesmen, politicians and business
men nciee that there Is no possible hope
ot President Wilson's note meeting any
Ihlug but a courteous and firm refusal.
The fecllnjr Is growing throughout the
nation that tho President has been the
victim of German Influence. There Is
iiMonlshment that lit- should fall Into
such a trap, mixed with a feeling of
resentment at what many consider his
untimely and uncalled for bid for inter
vcntlon. This feeling Is spie.-itllng to such nn
extent that many to-night declaie that
Pn-slileut Wilson lias made it lniio
slide for himself ever It. become medi
ator or to play 11 leading part In pea e
negotiations wlu-H the time comrs.
Ills declaration that both sides aic
ashling for the same alms has mused
tremendous anger. Tim opinion tr fit-elv
expressed that this mentis that I'li-sl-dent
Wilson's sympathies an- entirely
with tin German fldi- A prominent
diplomatist, who lum been cliMely lu
touch with developments for some time
past, tells the correspondent of Tin: Si'.v
that It Is certain Piesideut Wll-ou has
hi Ids posesslnn Information of tne situ
ation of the Powers which lias strongly
led htm to the conclusion that the time
has arrived for peace.
siispei-t Wllnon'a llotltes.
lu other qlliuters In close touch with
the Gm eminent the IMeslileiit's nolo s
irgnrdt-d Willi n certain amount of sus.
plciou. It Is considered the outcome of
,)iessiirc brought to bpar by German In
ei ests In America who lecogutze Ih-il
unless time can be gained lo Improve
the critical situation that has ntlscn lu
Austil.i ficrmaiiy may be compelled scion
to surieinlci' uuconilllloiially. This the
Allle.i an- determined to force, and the
Genitalis naturally aro anxious to avoid
it at all costs
Tho knowledge of this meiely herves
to stiffen the back nf Great lliltain, and
l.n ..tln., I. I, tilt.. I ... It ........ h... 1
.11,' ll.lliwii ,,,, , liv.v. 11,19 UUUH
lief )re,
"Germnny," said another polUlclan,
"Is unxlous to gain time for the last
round of the struggle, urid we nnd our
nllles are not prepares! to grant It."
llrltlsh labor Is even morn categorical
than the statesmen In Its n-Jivtlnn of
President Wilson's note and the posi
tion which the United States has taken
up. A prominent trade union leader
said :
"This Is not wholly unexpected. We
were prepared for II Few nf us believe
Piesideut Wilson is really afraid that a
conlluuanco of the war will drag In
the 1'nlted States. We have a strong
belief that American trade unionism,
Continued on econd rati.
Administration Shocked by
Allied Hostility to the
Proposal.
AMERICAN ENVOYS
SEEK TO MOLLIFY
Secretary Lansing's Ex
planations Made to Head
Off .Misconception.
DENIAL OF RTJ3I0B,
HE WILL RESIGN
President Receives Many
Messages of Approval
for His Step.
Wabhinoton, Deo. 22. Tho Immedi
ate effect of President WiUon'a pro
posal to the belligerents, and Indeed
the wholo futuro Influence of thl
country as a potential factor for peace.
In Kurope. Is believed to bo ecrloualy
threatened by the Idea created that the
President's step bears omo connec
tion with tho German peace, note.
With yesterday's developments serv
ing only to confuse tho situation, the
whole purpose of tho Administration
now appears to le to remove thla Im
pression. Tho Administration la tt)
mnko n determined effort to persuade
tho Entente Powers that their criti
cism of tho President's action aa pre)
German Is unjustified.
There Is unquestionably a fear In Ad
ministration circles that unless thla can
be accomplished the move which the
President has been so long In contem
plating may be entirely without result,
or may ecn serlousiy urrcct thl Gov
ernment's interests.
It was because of this thnt Secretary
Lansing took the almost unprecedented
comse et attempting to offset this un-
fortunate jinpiesslon created by th
I President's proposnl by explaining In
' 1'1 statement yesteiday morning that
the Intcrejts of the United Slates "drift-
,1J(? ,mvur(, ,h(J V(,r(;0 of ttr-. lnBde ,t
paramount for the American people to
know something ubout the 'alms of th
belligerents.
Wilson In Ignorance.
This statement, by inference, contained
a clled warning to (lermany to brldl
', her submarine commanders, as she prom-
Ised lu the Kusst-x case. Hut this supple
Department.
Secretary Lansing, it Is explained,
acted in this matter entirely on his own
iespnnlhllity and with a very definite
puriis, in view Apparently ho knew
It would attract worldwide attention
and lie so intended It The day th
President's 11ppc-.1l was published h
determined that at nil costs ho would
try to eliminate Its pro-German aspect
Ills statement was mado fur the sue-
cllk- object of Informing the world that
tlir-i e was a deeper, far moro significant
j ni.uiliiK to the President's action than
any desiie to help Germany's peace
offer. Secretary I.inslng realized that
It placed the I'nlltsl states In a mor
n-ltlsh ami less Idealistic light than
would have been the case had this Got
eminent, frott altruistic and disinter
ested motiies, spoken out boldly for
world peace.
Crux ut the fuse.
Hut, It is explained to.dny. the cru
of tho matter Is that this Government
Is necessarily looking after Its own
selfish Interests and thco Interests are
leg.irdcil as moii) clearly set forth In
Secretary Lansing's informal statement
than III the Pr.'sldent's formal propose.
If the Informal statement, backed by
ennndentl.il messages which the Amer
ican diplomatic reptcscnt atlvcs In th
Rntciite capitals will communicate to
the respective Governments to which
they arc iin-redltrd, will seive even par
tially to eridlcate the feeling that th
proposal was lu support of Germany
mis liovernmeut win 110 greatly relieved.
The tidal wave of hostility in Great
llrltnln which has greeted the President'
action has of course cretted n most dl
turblng Impression hen-. It was ex.
pected thnt the President's action would
be n-sented In llnuland under any clr
cumslances, but olllclals hero wero not
prepared for the unanimous condemna
tion It received. They plainly were not
prcpired for the rh.11 ge of "pro-Gcrroan
and unneutral action" whloh has greeted
the nole.
Heeause cif Secretary Lansing's In
fotmnl explaiKillon linu- was expressed
In Stale liepattment circles to-day that
tho nplulou in Great Hrllaln would b
consiilerably mulltfled within tho next
forty-eight limns, This hope Is ale
based on the belief that second consider
ation will change the hostile view ef
many tiiltlsn spokesmen.
Mr. I.nnnluit tntrrvlcvt rd.
The Slate Department ul.n trust that
a more careful scrutiny of the appeal
will show that the President did not
slate that the llnli-nle and tho Central
Powers were fighting fur the tamo aim,
nn Implication which has particularly
aroused the Htltl-h, but stated that
their it-sportive statesmen had described
their nlnis as the same
Secretary Lansing said this morning
that he did not look for ittty revile te
the American note until after ,ChrIt
.VW A'.nJ. i.Lii
