~V7HY ea ?-far doat kuSr OWs,
W L to the paim who already -
mat everythig you cn^A
think of--whj4Vw snd a yesres m&- A
toe WaaMiago Herald? SHOPPim V^V
srmd=&-arrier, $360 a L~w?
NO. 3714. wzTM-FAMa. WASHINGTON, D. Q.. SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1916. ONE CENT--"..4"..E."vw.
LINER VOLTARE
REPORTEO SUK,
OFF LVERPOOL
Lamport & Hol Steamer Car
ried Crew of 140, One
third Americans.
TWO WEEKS OVER
Oicials of Line Practically Give Up
Hope-Admiralty Begins
* Probe.
(By the Inter.ati..ai New. service.)
New York, Dec. 3.-Tb. 1,O-ton Lam
pert sad Holt passenger liner, Voltaire,
with a crew of 140. probably one-third of
them Americans. Is believed to have been
sunk off Liverpool by a German sub
marine.
The liner Is two weeks over-due in New
York and it was learned today. officals
of the line have all but iven up hope
that she will ever be seen again.
Even the possibility that she might
have become disabled and be drifting on
the open sea was lesa by the news
today that the Vauban. of the same
line, due in New York. and which left
Liverpool two weeks after the Voltaire.
was heard frofi by wireless at Halifax
on Thursday.
An official of the line tolti newspaper
men tonight that the company had been
keeping the matter quiet, hoping against
hope that the Voltaire would eventually
turn up.
May Be Disabled.
"There Is one slim chance." this offm
cial said. "that the Vdtaire might have
broken her shaft and is unable to pro
ceed. But she is equipped with a power
ful wireless apparatus and could easily
summon 4aid. Our only hope is that she
Is refraining from using her wireless for
fear she might divulge her position to
submarine.
"If she Is lost and her crew has been
set out in open boats. I would not give
them ten minutes as the time they prob
ably would survive In the present
weather.
"We were more hopeful until the New
York arrived the other day after a pas
sage through heavy seas. Now we do
not believe we will ever hear from her."
This official said no vessel since the war
began had drifted two weeks without
CeLIling aid if she was equiped with wire
The Voltaire left Liverpool on Novem
ber 0 in ballast. She was due here about
twelve to fifteen days later. She was to
he. sailed for South America with a
ime In whib Would have been more
than SUS In ged. The sa.mng has
been .anelle. it was announced tontght.
Many Axserteams Abeard.
No omias Information was obtainable
a to the exact number of Americaas on
board the Voltaire, * It was stated. how
eves, that when she left New York early
in November with a cargo of meat for
IJverpool she had a crew of 147 men.
about one-third of them American. The
crew was paid In Liverpool. The num
ber of Americans roeehipping could not
be obtained. It was stated that probably
ell of them would return with the
vesse.
The Veltaire was one of the fastest
beats of the Lamport and Holt line. She
has bee, in the New York-Buenos Aires
trade and has made several trips south
is the last year. She was especially de
sirable for this purpose because of the
big demand for steamers equipped with
strong rooms to carry gold. Gold is
being shipping in great quantities by
bankers to South America to pay for
American imports there.
No search Is being directed for the ves
sel from this side, It was stated, but the
British admiralty several days ago began
an Investigation. Whether warships have
been sent in search is not known here.
The boat was built in Glasgow In 1907
and was under the British flag.
TIBUTE TO ENGLANO*
AT PILGiRIMS' DINNIJ
New England Society Banquet Attend
ed by Notable Men.
(By the laternatieaal News Service.)
New York. Dec. 22.-The New England
Society tonight gave its Ulth annual din
ner at the Waldorf-Astoria In honor of
the Mbth anniversary of the landing of
the Pilgrims from the Mayflower at Fly
mouth. Dr. Lowell. president of Harvard
Unlversity; Francis Lynde Stetson, re
tiring president of the society; Frank
Trumbell, president of the board of direc
/ tore. and Lewis Perry were the speakers.
Among the prominent men preent were
ElIhu Root. William C. Redfield, Austin
B. Fletcher. Howland Davis, William
Sloane. George Morgan Lewis, William
Dennis. Toun Murphy and Loring
Underwood.
In the course of his speech Mr. Stetson
paid a glowing tribute to England sad
her attitude in the present world war.
Mr. Trumbull warned New England
maaufacturers that their watchword must
be efficiency, and that they must have
skilled labor as the chief weapon to meet
the inroads of the "starving countries."
WIF SEQS1 HIll TO PRISON.
New York, Dec. 22.-Induced by his
wife to confess to thefts amounting to
SGM from his employers, Adolph Loeffler
aasentenced today to serve from three
years to forty-two months in prison. His
wife petted his shoulder and wished hIm
a merry Christmas.
An i~wrt~d i e eval.datpa
was staten fo h rn ado h
of . . rokas1eces
~sIsppi avanue northwest, yesterday.
eta say. a dg~es from NIaate. today.
SEsreime I es m~see
UrwNewr ea the Bear, Mtimore
ine Barrelb of
Ch Lquor
Stolen, Then Rescued
LeUis Coggle. Hoy Smith,
Hepry Robinson. and Daniel
Shackelford. all colored, just
couldn't see nine barrels of
Christmas "cheer" standing in a
wagon all by themselves, so they
Invited them.selves to have some,
In fact they drove off with a
whole wagon load, according to
the police.
The alleged robbery occurred
yesterday in a alley in the rear
of 1530 Seventh street north
west. An express wagon, driven
by Edward Saunders. white,
pulled up in the alley, and the
driver left the cargo of seven
barrels of whiskey and two bar
rels of gin outside. When he
came back the wagon was gone.
The police have recovered all
of the liquid loot except two bar
rels. and they know where they
are, the say.
Two rrels of gin are at
headquarters and one barrel is
at the First precifct. The horse
and wagon was found near Six
teenth and 0 streets.
ROBBERS RACING
Police Speeding After Thieves
Who Stole Cppital Jewelry.
Two high-powered automobiles racing
through the night was the dramatie
climax last night of one of the boldest
laylight robberies known to the Wash
ington Police Department. Two men
yesterday threw a brick, neatly wrapped
in stiff gray paper, through the plate
glass show window of the jewelry store
of Abram Burnstine, 381 Pennsylvania
avenue northwest, grabbed more than
11000 worth of jewelry, and made their
escape.
In the one car were the two burglars
and their driver. In the other machine
were Detectives Hughiett and Burlin
game, of the local police department,
and an expert driver. Bralley Gish, a
local speed king, placed his fastest
automobile at the disposal of the police
to run down the thieves.
The last report from the detectives
was received at headquarters shortly
after midnight. It told that three men.
who answered the descriptions of the
burglars and their chauffeur, had
Stopped off at Marlboro. Md.. for a
hurried drink and dartea away in their
automobile in the direction of Balt
more.
The daring robbery was committed
while the downtown district was crowd
ed with Christmas shoppers. Many peo
ple were in the vicinity of the store when
the brick crahhed through the window,
but before any one realized what had hap
pened the burglars had grabbed a num
ber of diamonds and darted up Third
street. It is said they juntped into a
large automobile near the corner of C
street and dashed away at breakneck
speed. A motorist told the police that
the machine carried a Pennsylvania
license.
CHICAGO WOMAN FREED
OF CHARGE OF MIRER
Jury Fails to Upset Precedent in Slay
ing Trials.
(By the Internatieal New3 Serviee.)
Chicago. Dec. 22.-Mrs. Ia Barnes
was found not guilty of the murder
)f her husband. James R. Barnes, at
1:40 this afternoon bf a Ngry that had
been deliberating since 12:45 p. m.
The verdict followed a sensational
end dramatic trial in which the State
tried hard to refute the charge that
"you can't 'convict a woman of mur
ter in Chicago." Twenty-eight wom
sn have been tried on murder. charges
in Chicago in the past four years.
Mrs. Barnes is the twenty-second to
go free.
Mrs. Barnes was charged with sjoot
Ing her husband in Washington Park'
last September after a separation that
followed when he found another man
in her apartments. The defense con
tended that the shooting was acci
dental.
a
WATCHXAI DEAD IN TOWEE.
Philadelphia. Dec. 22.-The timely dis
covery -of a watchman dead in his rail
road sigpal tower at Front and Jackson
streets possibly prevented a railroad ac
eldent yesterday afternoon. George Eisen
man. N years old, ebipIoyed by the Penn
mylvania Salt Works, was the victim.
The watchman had to ring a bell into the
main office each hour. At 3 o'clook the
bell failed to ritg and a man was dent
to sefwhat was the matter.
BOUGET MEXTCAN $10 BILL.
Henson Johnson yesterday asked the
police to find a man who early in the
day approached him at Seventh ang 0
streets and asked him to change a $10
bill. He changed the bill. In return he
got a $I)bill, but it was of the Mexican
variety and of a vintage that is out et
date.
1EW BTANDARD OIL HEAD NAMED
New York, Dec. 2.-Alfred C. Bedford,
vice president and treasurer of the Stand
erd Oil Company of New Jersey, was to
lay elected president of the concern to
succeed the late John D. Archbold.
The new head of the Standard Oil Coin
pany is 52 years old, and hes been with
he parent company or its subsidiaries
mince he'was 13 year. old.
GETB $300 AlTER I8 YEARB,
St. Louis, Dee. 2.--George Weise, a
former eailer and of ~padmitted roy.
eg dispoeition, reatly received
300.35 from the local Free Legal Aid
Burean, representing his share .f the
ofteofemmle wh did ha Aima.
CLAUSE GRANTS
LARGER RAISES
Increase of 20 Per Cent for
Workers Provided for in
Penrose Amendment.
Senator Penrose. of Pennsylvania. 791
terpay took up the cause of the govern"
ment and District emplofes in their ef
forts to secure increased wages.
An amendment to the District appro
priation bill that will provide Increased
compensation at the rate of 90 per cent
for employes receiving $1,0 or lew and
10 per cent for employes receiving from
$1,200 to 82,600 was offered by the Penn
sylvania Senator.
He also announced that a similal
amendment would be offered on the vari
ous supply bills when they reach the
Senate, unless they contain a horizontal
increase of the above amount.
Sentiment in the Senate appears to fa
vor a -higher graded increase than tha
granted by the House in the legislative
bill.
In the Senate, as well as in the House,
a vast majority of the members favor a
scientific revision of salaries in both the
government and District service. Thin
revision would involve an extended re
classification, a minute study of the work
each employe is called upon to do and
the change in salary that would make
the compensation fair for'the service ren
dered.
Senators who have discussed the ques
tion with Tge Washington Herald's rep
resentatives agree, however, that the
need for .an immediate increase for em
ployes of the lower grade Is imperative.
May Not Work Even Justice.
The general opinion In this respect was
expressed by Representative Gallivan. of
the Appropriations Committee, yester
day. He said:
"A blanket increase of 5 and 10 per
cent for all Federal District employes
may not work out even justice in all
cases. It does provide for indhediate re
lief for the employee below the $1.200
grade, and they are the people that de
serve an increase most. There are cases
where the employes who receive the
benefits of such a horisontal increase do
not deserve it. I admit that. I do not
feel, however, that the great number of
employee who are actually suffering for
this increased pay should be obliged to
wait until we can give perfect justice.
"A thorough revision of the payrolls
would perhaps in some cases result in
revision downward. I am absolutely
certain that so far as employes receiving
less than 81,00 a year Is concerned, it
would forcibly impress upon everybody
OINMSUED ON PAGE SVEN.
HUSKY DAN CUPID
STARTLESCOL. KROLL
Marriage License Dispenser WorksOver
time to Supply Nuptial Purveyor.
"Who's there?" COL William A. Kroll.
marriage license clerk In the District Su
preme Court, asked in response to a rap
on the door of his office after the closing
hour yesterday afternoon.
'Tm Dan Cupid. of Bladensburg, Md.,
and I want a marriage license." a husky
voice answered.
Having issued thousands of marriage
licenses and having never had the pleas
ure of meeting little mischievous Cupid
personally. Col. Kroll was curious to
know what that little winged messenger
of love looked like.
He was disappointed when he opened
the door, for there was no unclad form
before him. with butterfly wings and
there was no shooting of those dangen
ous darts.
But instead, there stood John E.
Bowles, a grizzled old darky, who said:
"I have already gotten more than a
hundred marriage licenses and I want
another."
"What!" Col. Kroll exclaimed. "Mar
ried a hundred times and still matri
monially inclined?"
"No. sir. I am not married at all. I
simply get the licenses for Bladensburg
folks and they call me Dan Cupid."
"How cute," Col. Kroll remarked, as
be issued the thirty-fourth license for
the day under the "Sign of the Mistletoe"
which hung over his desk.
DRIG. GEN. WOODWARD
DIES AT HOME HERE
Civil War Veterail and Former Loyal
Legion Chief Succumbs.
Brig. Gen. George A. Wbodward, U. S.
A.. 91, retired, died yesterday at his
home. 2110 Massachusetts avenue, Gen.
Woodward was a civil war veteran, a
former commander of the Loyal Legion
and a member of the Army and Navy
and Chevy Chase clubs. He was a Demo
crat in politics.
He was born in Wilkesbarre, Pa.,
February 14. 18i. He. was the son of
George W. Woodward, formerly chief
justice of the Supreme Court of Penn
sylvania.
He entered the military service May
27, 1601. as captain of the Second Penn
szivania Reserves. He wasa brevetted
colonel March 2, 1867, for bravery in the
hattie of Gettysburg,
Col Woodward was a member of the
District of Columbia Commandery loyal
Legion. He was a member of the Chevy
Chase Club and was president of the
Army and Navy Club, 185-6,.
123 PAROLU! Afl ORAiTED.
Trenton, N. J., Dlea. 3.'1'he State
board of pardons today played lanta
Claus/to 13 inmatd of the New Jbrsee
State' Prison 4rhen it granted them pa
roles. Five men serving various' term
for murder were among the number- re
leased.
$10,000,000 101 JEWs,
Ne0w Togk. Deo. a-i.-e Am~san Jews
hae started ras UIUMSB in a-e
year for the ftring Jews at the war
lands. They started last nlght at car
negie Hall with a great saeeting. Wtee
the meeting was over it was Wtiinted
at 4h.eg"e" that shs
Dwvolpugu of- Day
I.n Bigger Salary Move
1-&en-sr Penrose will Introduce
providing for N and
x Vt ineases for all Fed
eral and District employee. Dis
triat bill amendment introduced
yesterday.
2-Police patrol chauffeurs loin
list of those who seek higher sal.
arles.
3-Sentiment, of the Senate ap
pears to favor a Z per cent In
crease for employee receiving $1,200
or les. and 10 per cent for em
ployes between $1,300 and $1,800.
4-Representative Gallivan favors
and urges immediate increase and
then a reclassification and study
that will bring about a scientific
revision of the government and
District payrolls.
VILLA RAID WINS
Torreon and Chihuahua City
Reported Taken by Bandit.
By J Iuternatlemai News service.)
El Uso. Tex., Dec. 22.-VIlla has cap
tured Torreon after less than a day's
battle, and it is said he has taken Chi
huahua City.
Reports conflict as to the time of the
city's fall, but apparently the citadel
fell to the bandits about 1 o'clock this
afternoon. according to information re
ceived in El Paso by mining men.
According is the reports Gen. Murgula
is due in Juares on a special train at 2
o'clock In the morning. If this report
Is true it is the irony of fate that Mur
guta will be forced to seek refuge from I
Gen. Gona le, the man he sought to de
pos an who routed Gen. 'omaduran
and his troops .sent by Murgula to take
his place as commander at Juarez.
If contirmed, the capture of Chihuahua.
City anticipates by three days the boast
of Villa that he would take the town by
Christmas Day.
Mexican Ambassador-designate Arre
dondo at midnight said he had received
no news of the fall of Torreon and Chi
huahua ('ity.
"This news surprises me very much.
although I must confess that I have had
no word from my government during the
past twenty-four hours concerning the
military operations at these two points,"
he said.
| Telegraph Tips
"New York. Dec. 22.-Blanche Crane,
daughter-in-law of Dr. *Frank Crane,
writer and lecturer, was killed early to
day by a fall from the sixth story win
(low of her apartment il West Seventy
ninth street. She was the wife of James
L. Crane. an actor.
Paris. Dec. '.-Artillery duels north of
Monastir and patrol engagements on the
Struma River were reported by the
French war office today in a communique
on Macedonian operations.
I E.ndon. Dec. 2.-The steamship Itonius.
5,340 tons, has been sunk, says a ilispatch
to T.loyds today. The Itonis was in the
servtce <,f the British government.
ro&.nhagen. Dec. 22.-The transfer of
the Danish West Indies to the 'nited
States is now a mere matter of formalI
ties. The sale stood ratified today by
both houses of the Danish congress.
London. Dec. 2-El Arish. a strongly
fortified Turkish camp, ninety miles east
of the Suez Canal, has been captured by
the British. according to dispatches from
Cairo. Egypt. today.
Budapest. Dec. 22-The egronation of
Charles. as King of Hungary, will take'
place on December 30. Parliament has
completed plans for the ceremonies.
Count Tisza has been elected paladin.
Omaha, Neb., Dec. 22.-The Union Pa
cific's Christmas gift of $1,500.000 will be
divided among 20,000 employe%.
Gloversville. N. Y., Dec. 22-G. Lever &
Co., leather manufacturers, have decltd
a special pay day and awarded bon1s
of from 85 to $1,000 to 275 workers al
Christmas presents.
San Francisco, Dec. 22.-Luther Bur
bank, plant evolutionist, and his secre
tary, Miss Elizabeth Waters, were mar
ried by the Rev. C. S. S. Dutton, pastor
of the First Unitarian Church. The cere
mony was private.
Omaha, Dec. 22.-Archbishop Jeremiah
J. Harty was installed as Bishop of Oma
ha, at St. Celia's Cathedral. Ten prelates
of the Roman Catholic church and 120
priests of Nebraska and Iowa were pres
ent at the ceremony.
Copenhagen (via.London), Dec. 22.-The
small Russian steamship Skiftet has been
sunk by striking a mine near Abo. Fin
land, according to advices received here.
Fifty-nine persons were killed. Only one
person aboard the steamship was saved.
Salem. Ore,. Dec. 22.-Charles E. Hughes
carried Oregon by a plurality of 7.31,4 over
President Wilson, according to the of
ficial returns just announced. The final
count was: Hughes, 126.749; Wilson. 119,
435. The total prohibition amendment
carried by 5.261.
PhIladelphia. Dec. 22.-Capt. E. L
Beach. commander of the cruiser Mem
phis, wrecked on the rocks off San Do
mingo during a hurricane, has been placed
on trial before a naval court on board
the battleship Connecticut at the Phila
delphia Navy Yard. --
Wheeling. W. Va., Dec. 23.-Hundreds
of married couples in this city and in
cities across the river in Ohio wer
shocked by a report that' Federal agents1
are investigating marriages by Ohio mn-'
Isters of couples having licenses issuedl
here and in other West Virginia cities.
The marriages of many couples who were
wed In this madnler have been declared
Illegal.
IBerline'Dec. 3,.Dispatches frem Vien
na report- that Emperor Charles has re
Leaved a deputation of Austrlan Jews,
headed' by the Viennese grand rabbi. The.
Emperor thanked the deputation ~their.
call, end assured them that Sews
bythe rIghtSsuagmn
MARKET RAIDERS
.m8S OFFICIALS?
Speculation Rife as to Who
Profited from Presi&nt's
Peace Note.
"What Washington offcials, if any.
made stupendous profits out of the Wall
Street peace panic. precipitated by R"al
lent Wilson's teace note?' was the ques
tion which yesterday confronted Congress
and official Washington. With a formal
demand for an investigation of the fnan
lail activity of government offlcials
placed before the House by Representa
live Wood. a fighting Republican from
Indiana, the current reports became the
center of a cyclone of excited comment
which threatened to assume scandalous
proportlons.
Grave and serious charges are set fortn
the resolution which Representative
'o-d introduced in the House. It de
mands an investigation to determine
whether anyone "high in authority In the
zovernment affairs" or any "relative of
anyone high in authority" profited
through the peace panie.
Gemeral Raid Ruored.
Washington was last night tfe with
'peculation as to the identit of the
government omcials at whom the resolu
tion was aimed, and the speculation
brought out rumors of a general raid on
the New York Stock Kixchange in con
riection with the President's peace note.
which was described as perilously close
to "riggirg the market." There was
much discussion of the plain hint in the
Wood resolution that some government
amcilas had "cleaned up" in the bear
market, through advance information as
to the contents of the President's note.
Administration leaders in the House
Frere prepared to smother the Wood reso
ution as soon as the Christmas holidays
are over. But Representative Wood de
'lared last night that he would demand
action, and that he would have strong
support. It is possible that the Republi
!an side of the House will so hand* the
situation as to force the Democrats to
investigate. In order to exonerate admin
htration officials.
Will Be Theroaghly Aitred.
It is certain however, that whatever
lispositi-n may be made of the Wood
'esolution. the general subject will he
:horoughly aired in Congress. Several
Republican members of the House pri
lately announced their intention to make
i private inquiry into the Wall Street
-aid. with a view to laying the entire
hatter before the House in speeches aft-r
the holiday recess.
The Wood resolution which was referred
to the House Rules Committee, would
provide:
"That a committee of five rePesentatives
:e appointed by the Speaker to investi
gate and make report as to whether or
not anyone high in the administraUion
,f the goveroanental Uan1&A of the .!nited
States or any relative of anyone high
In authority in the governmental affairs
3f the United States, profited financially.
'ither directly or indirectly. by the fiuc
lu'tion in the stock market occuring on
Thursday, December 21, 1916, following
the two contradictory interpretations giv
en to the public from the Omce of the
Secretary of State concerning the note of
the President of the United States, dated
December 19. 1914. to the belligerent
powers."
SOMME BATilE WON,
KAISER TELLS PRINCt
Gives Medal to Rupprecht of Bavaria
for "Victory."
(By the lateruntemial News Service.)
Berlin, Dec. 22.-"The battle of the
Bonine has been won for us." said Em
peror William in conferring the oak
leaves of the Order Pour Le Merite upon
Crown Prince Rupprecht. of Bavaria.
cmmander of the Germans upon the
;omme front. Omelal announcement of
the decoration of the Gerunan command
ir was made today.
The Kaiser has conferred the same dis
t'nction dpon Lieut. Gen. von Kunl. who
is attached to Crown Prince Rulpprecht's
staff.
In a letter to the Bavarian crown prince
the Emperor said:
"Under the splendid leadership of your
royal highness the Franco-British attacks
have been arrested and the battle on the
Sne won for us. Only this made poo
le our destructive blown in Rumania."
DELASLO MOVIE PARTY
FOR POOR POSTPONED
Society Women to Be Patronesses at
Herald's Treat Thursday.
Because of the Nash of events at
Christmas time, the party to be given
in the Belasco Theater for poor children
of Washington has been postponed from
Monday to Thursday morning.
The party will be given, as announced
yesterday, with The Washington Her
ald. U(anager L Stoddard Taylor. of the
Belasco and the William Fox Company,
Inc., as hosts. Also, there will he An
nette Kellermann, in "A Daughter of the
Gods." The play will be a Christmna,
present to the ''kiddies" who wouldn't
have any other chance to see a Yuletide
show.
"A Daughter of the Gods" is one of the
most elaborate film productions now be
ig shown, so the children are sure to
hhve an enjoyable time, -
Plans for the entertainment have pro
greased so far that some of the best
known women in Washington have vol
tinteered to help by acting as patroneees
Among the patroneases are Mrs. Thoms
Watt Gregory, Mrs. Josephus Daniels.
Miss Agnea Hart Wilson, Mrs. Philander'
P. Ciaxton, Mrs. Frederick Siddons, Mrs.
Cuno H. Rudolph. Mr's. Seth Shepard and
Mrs. Weeley Martin Stoner, who has
been recently appointed to the inaugural
board.
ER FEELIIOB XUCI HURT,
Kansas City B .--Mis Beatrice K.
Stevens asks fran the Gate City
Cmnyfrimnproperty dssig
na hra a"am iss" the 113
directory. She asks in a suit fled today
in Circuit dk>urt an additional 10,0W for
an error made in the directory issmd in
i ntW sane ae
GERMANY JL
LONDON IS
WASHING'
TEUTONS CHEERED
Press and Public Applaud
President's Peace
Proposal.
(my the Interautiemal News serviee.)
Berlin, Dec. 22.-Jubilant applause is the
most accurate way to describe the re
veption which President Wilson's note to
the be gerents found at the hands of
the German press and public.
The German people were virtually re
signed to the view that the central pow
ers' peace proposals had fallen upon deaf
ears. in the entente countries. They had
been led to this view by the defiant
apreches of the ,iritlein. French. Russian
and Italian statesmen. The American
note, however. revived hopes over night.
The consensus is that the allies cannot
fail to heed the impressive and earnest
word. of the American President.
Onrial tircles Silent.
At the foreign office strict silence was
observed as to It. eff-t the American
message Ma. have pomn the international
situation. It was evident. however. that
officials greeted it with gratification and
that it re-awakened optimism with re
gard to the posibilitles of an early end
of the war. The American Ambassador,
James W. Gerard, who has just returned
to Berlin from his vacation in America.
refused to comment on the note.
London. De,-. ' -Parliament was pro
%Ogued today by King George. In the
address from the throne proroguing Par
liftent King George declared that "the
vigorous prosecution of the war" will be
the single aim England until the
security of Europe has been established.
He indicated that peace is not yet in
sight
The King's address was as follows:
'The vigorous prosecut;on of the war
must be our single endeavor until we
have vindiated the right so ruthlessly
violated by our ena-mios and have es
tablished the security of Europe on a
sure foundation. I am confident that we
shall finally achieve 'ho- victorious con
fination of the aims for which we en
tered the war."
Must Conter First.
('hancellor Blonar Law announced in the
House of Commons that England couli
not deal with President Wilson's note un
til the government has had an oppor
tunity to exchange ideas with her al
lies.
Mr. Law had been asked whether a
statement would be made regarding the
American note and he answered.
"It must be obvious that this is a
question that can be dealt with only in
communication with our allies and that
it is impossible to make a statement now
Parliament will not convene again un
til February 7.
JAPAN WIL OUTCLASS
UNITED STATES ON SEA
New Naval Program Provides for Great
War Fleet.
(By the 1ster!!temal News servier.1
Tokio. Dec. :-A great program of
naval expansion which. by the end of
19:23 will give Jai-an overwhelming
superioritv ,ver a;, oth.r fleets in the
Pacifn. Inculding that of the United
States. was officially announced today.
Beginning in 191 the government will
transfer yearly S10.00o.00A from the
sinking fund to the riaval construction
fund.
This step was decided on. ype minister
of finance' stated today. aft.r the govern
ment had reached the conclusion thit
the increase of the navy is more urgent
than redemption of the national debt.
By the end of 192, it is estimated.
Japan will hale built thr-e new battle
ships. two battle cruisers, nine scout
cruisers, twenty-fIve iestroyers and
eighteen submarines. This wi I bring the
battle fleet up to eight of the most
modern battleships and four battle
cruisers.
Lost Emerald Rings Owned
By Mrs. 1. L Thompson
Mrs. W. B. Thompson. who lives in
the St. Regis Hotel. New York. is the
owner of the two emerald rings which
disappeared at the Shoreham Hotel
here. For the return of the jewelry
the owner has offerea a reward of
$3.000.
M-s. Thompson's identity =*as care
fully guarded in the advertisements.
and by Washington police authorities.
Mrs. Thompson. through absent
mindedness. recently threw a large un
set diamond into a waste - basket in
her St. Regis apartment.
ACCDUT AIDED "WE ." -
Norfolk. Va.. Dec. 22.-Even the ill
wind that cadsed the storm that
caused the Merchants and Miners'
steamer Powhatan to be rammed and
sunk by the British steamer Telena
near Thimble Shoals Light brought
joy to many dry persons.
The Powhatan has a hole in her side
about fifty feet long. Through this
considerable freight drifted out into
~the Chesapeake Bay, most of it cast
upon the beach at Willoughby Spit.
In the freight wers several barrels
of whiskey, and in Virginia, with the
State dry less than two mionths, whis
key is received with open yrms and
open mouth.
SIm TTTX2U I W3ZEK,
Jacksonville, F'ia., Dec. 22-4ix men
were killed wham a double-header freight
train on the Seaboard Air inoe Railway
ran into a waslhout near McKinley, Fla..
sixty-nine smiles west of here today. But
one .m..ber of the eges aanmesi
Pendleton. S. ('.. Dec. 2.-Bixteens per
sons ware injured, s-veral perhaps faidly.
whas a Blue Ridge train was wrecked
FBILANT;
UNMOVED;
rON WAITING
OPTIMISTIC HERE
General Belief Is that Some
Good Will Result from
Note.
Washington became the center of the
world's politics last night. as w0rl
diplomacy prepared to meet the sluseon*
created by President Wilson's, bttia
peace move. With the President's p8es
note in the haails of all of the belligerent
governments, and most of the EUropasA
neutrals, the White House and the Its"
I)epartment waited for the next move to
come from the warring nation.
Diplomatic circles here were couvin"se
that no matter what attitude the Ger
manic powers and the entente allies
might assume toward the President's
action, the peace move would brig
about some result which would tend is
the general direction of peace. There
was a well authenticated report In Wash
ington last night that . the President's
overtures had been favorably received Ia
Germany and that a reply which would
open the way for further negoailoes
might he expected. . 0
Teutons Wo=bd Give Tems.
it was stated on authority close to
the Germany Embasy that GermIay's
eistre for peace to sincere and that the
central powes would be even willing
to submit- to the United States a clear
and frank statement of the conditionS
upon which they would end the war. Thia
staterment. however. was qualified with
the d.c-larition that Germany would i
ist that her peace terms be kept secret
until a similar statement could be so
,ured. outlining the peace views of the
ettente powers with clarity and dei~e
ness.
DeTvelopments along this line would put
President Wilson in the position of media
tor of the controversy.-temporafily at
least. With definite peace proposals from
ltih sides in his hands. he would be in
a porititen to pres" for a firal settle
ment throuch negotiation-n though
the terma submitted differed widel.
Germany Ready to Act.
There was no doubt bre last night that
IGermany sas prepar-d to take full ad
antaie of the President's peace move.
, onfidential advices from Berlin told of
an interview arrsnged between Ambassa
dor Gerard. who has returned to his post
in Berlin. and the G'ersai chancellor.
The interview was stated to be for the
spec0c rur of dircussing the proP
pcts for pe-e. and it was acorpted here
last night that the conference undoubt
edlv showed Germany's intention to make
every effort to bring about drnite peace
negotiations.
Among representatives of the entente
sIll" here the peace sentiment was far ,
from optimistle. None of the entente
diplomats would discuss the President's
note or its possible effects Neither would
they venture any assertion as to what
the attitude of their home governments
would be toward the President's proposal
that the objects of the warring nations
he clearly set forth. All agreed. how
ever. that the note would cail for deep
consideration by all of the belligerenti.
and they predicted considerable delay be
fore the United States could expect del
nite replies from the entente allies.
Joint Confereneee tAkell.
It is pra'etlfally certain that no move
will be made by the entente powers untfl
they have considered all angles of the
peace situation, jointly. It i probable
that these joint conferences will resuit in
a joint reply by the eneraes of the on
tral Towers.
The attitude of the European neutrals
formed the uhject of much conjecture In
diplomatic conversations here last night.
There was speculation as to whether
they would join forces and act as a unit
in an effort to strengthen their position
and hasten reae It was generally be
Ileved that all of the neutrals would In
some fashion get behind President Wil
son's peace move. either jointly or indt
vidually. Heretofore Jhe closeness of the
European neutrals to the war zone and
the danger of their becoming Involved
ha.e prevented them from taking any
CONTIN'17ED ON PAGE TWO.
TRAGEDY STALKS WAlL
STREET AFTER PANIC
Thousands of Small Investors Ruined
in "Peace Raid."
(By the Imternatiemal news Servtee.i
New York. Dec. .-Hundreds of hu
man tragedies were written into broker.'
account books today. They were pelled
in "account closed."
Conservative Wall street men estimated
today that the number of small specula
tors wiped out financially in this week's
panic-stricken market will reach far into
the thousands. 'lerks of practically all
the b ic houses wo-ked all night last night
on accounts. sending out calls for more
margine-most of which were uinwee.
ed-and straightening up bufinees in psep.
arat ion for the morning.
"Not until now." soid the broker. "ha
even Wail street Itself realised the emer
mous number of small speoealatese. We .~
going to be a tough Chrn r
of them."
The Street was filled today with atn
of losses. One Ina. 6C. who ne a Esp
tune in real estate before the pakt et
19l. and who invested In etek ha ld
was wiped out. One br~er told of a
school teacher who had inher'itet
Sl.000l. She caught the fewer ea smb
marine boat, buying at *6. Teday the
stock was eelling around 36, and .
was wiped out.
GIEL TAmo A CKATHZUR.
Baton Rouge. I.... Dec. 23.-Uslag
a buggy whip, while her ees
George Chaney, stood by with a met
gun, Miss Sedenla Davis. 13, visitng
relatives in Dine. horsewhipped TeilS.
ver Bosesman for' alleged ltopswr ae
vance. -m-de to her while a paesep
in Bosemnan's ate.
Boseman Sled atfidavita egninet beth
("'haney and the young woeman. chesrg
lag assault, Dseman was glee. -10
lashes and his balk wa M
