THE ARIZONA REPXJBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
14 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 23, 1916
14 PAGES
VOL.. XXVII., NO. 218
Oil HEPLV TO
WILSON'S HE
IS NOT LKDI
rr. u,: a a' i.,c.ri vviri
1 ' ' . ,, ' . ,., v v,-i
WASHINGTON. Dec. -- " mle
untiling official came from Europe
day to show when the helligerents will
reply to President Wilson's note urg
luii discussion of peace, or what the
.. ..,m ,.t the i promises might i.e. the 1
London news dispute-ties indicated lhatgian war ministry." i
an earlv reply was unlikely because oi l "The Herman pretension that errors
'....i..-'. ..ni.ilt-illnn hi' tha inHirino- iho arw-inl oorlirion of ihiP
lies, agreed with the view prevailing
lieie.
Apparently the administration, hav
ing discussed the note and in the inter
est of caution having taken steps to see
that no misconstruction abroad was
placed on the president's puriKises now
is carefully watching the expressions of
opinion, particularly in the British
press. As the attitude of the Teutonic j
allies had been clearly foreshadowed in
advance and the president in the note
specifically disclaimed any association
with that altitude, the interest of
American officials centered in the re-1 Dour 137 were taken, of whom 117 were
ception of the note in entente countries I working. At Wnsmes ISii were de
aud among the European neutrals. ported of whom 130 were working; at
It was recalled, as the Lufidon dis-1 Frameries 20o were deported, of whom
Patches, most of them hostile, arrived, 1130 were working; at Hornu Un were
tliat similar expressions greeted me
original proposals of the central pow
ers, but that the views were moderated
in the British press and among the en
tente diplomats here after reflection
and discussion.
To preclude any possibility of mis- i
onstruitioii of the president s purposes
from the flurry of yesterday, caused by
Secretary Lansing s two statements,
both statements were cabled to Ameri
can diplomats abroad in neutral as well
as belligerent countries today so they
might be prepared to state correctly
the president's attitude to the govern
ments to which they are accredited.
They are intended to offer official ev
idence, if it be needed, that the presi
dent's note is exactly what it purports
to be un its face.
The suggestion from London that i
the manner of replying to the pres
ident's note will differ from the form !
of replies to proposals of the German i
allies correspond w ith official expecta- j
lions. It is thought here that the en-,
tente allies conespond with official ex- .
pectations. It is thoueht here that the.
entente allies might not make extended '
answer to the proposals of the central
powers but would deal with the whole
peace, subject ill their response to tne
I'nited States.
"'I he German view here is that vv.iat- , ilfel.en,s m!ikine known their require
ever the reply of the entente allies, t be ; ments concerning peace, row centers
relations between Germany and tne, ..r, th" reception of the .lo.-umenr :iv
Lmted biates w..i nae ueen iiiime.is- the centra, pors. Xhe filst anvic,.s
'"ably improved piobably to the point i rei.fived nere from Germain- regarding;
of assuring careful steps by the Berlin i,ne not evince emhllsnii apt w&..
government to avoid any such condi- nome j( as W.(J ,he reverHe )n K.iglitnil.
tions.as led up to a crisis which Tne discu(,8io!1 i,ere m-eraiKht was-so
threatened a brea vift diplomatic reia- a,,s(irtp,t , VrUWh cmo,lon 0d as to
tirisr-The-iew-is-UmtTbavniage tj)(. ,y of wha gnOL.,d e nro.lt T.ri.
of comity with the greatest of neutral , lin s re ,v that the a,.it,uii. f ,hl, rcn.
will be so forcibly impressed upon the.jU.a, powers tommimtip(i Utile attention,
people of the cential empires that it! Tne no,e 0Ontinues to be the onlv
will not again oe enuauseieu.
Entente diplomats, while they appar
entlv had decided to accept the presi
dent's attitude in good faith had r.ot
wholly disposed of this fear that it
might be found to the advantage of
their enemies.
It was reiterated totay in a;', official
iinarters that there was perfect under
standing between Secretary Lansing
and tne president ano wmuexcr iioroi
nave appearea as oikcoiu u uniru. come I;uer but ,)roiat,Iv not within a
tion of the note to the helligerents had fortniBht. Tile re,,ly , Ul(1 centraI pmv.
leen disposed of by the issue of t ie'ers ha(1 virtimllv )jeen arranged when
secretary s secono siaicuieoi ,um
steps to inform the foreign govern-,
ments or tne tacts.
tacts. I
The notes to the belligerents, Secre-;S(m
tarv Lansing's explanatory statements, i
i x ,..nMnt..
and recent German submarine actiyi- jtte doubt that the general tenor of . house Possecl five government supply
ties furnished the chief topic of dis- both notes wiI1 follou. thp same ijlle measures the urgent deficiency, leg
cussion at todav s cabinet meeting, being based on the official speeches of I islative, Indian, District of Columbia.
Later it was said that the discussion David Uoyd George, the British prime and diplomatic and consular appro
was directed toward no particular end -minister, Aristide Briand, I he France ! priation bills more than ever were
but merely brought forth the views oi premier. Baron Sonnino. the Italian j passed before in the brief period pie
cabinet members. ! foreign minister, and M. Pokrovsky, the ' ceding a holiday recess.
After the cabinet meeting. Secretary ; Russian foreiKn minister, as containing; One of these "bills, the urgent ?-I-ansing
said that full information a fl, exposition ,)f t-e )0ijcy of the , ficiency, has passed the senate.
. oncerninr the sinking of the British entente , K.li!roart )egisiation fallexl to get
liner Arabia was not at hand, liie; British public men generally decline ' much attention in either branch. Ttie
American government is anxiously to sp,,ak for pni.iieatj,,,, concerning the house commerce committee decided to
awaiting won) from .er ,n regarding ; n,lte of Preident U ilson. and those in await initiative action in the' senate
the British Horse shin .Manna, union 1he government cannot do so without i where beginning January 2, the senate
admittedly wan sunk without warning violation of official custom. Those commerce committee will hold hear
bv a German submarine and whic" the outSi,ie of tne government do not desire ings on the proposed railroad arbltra
.state department has been convinced., to ern!)arras, it Uon measure8 ari(1 the bi alltnoriz-
was not a transport. No course of a". , All the prominent officials will re- ing the president to take over the
Hon will be decided on until Germany , main in r.n,),,,, during the holidavs. I railroad, telephone and telegraph lines
has been heard from further. i The morning newspapers again today : in case of military necessity.
It w-as learned that after full discus- arP giving ample space to President I At the conclusion of the hearings
sum the. cabinet took the view tnat the Wilson's note, assiduouslv seeking to i the railroad measures in some forra
force of the note to the belligerents had penetrate into any possiblv concealed , will be pressed as amendments to the
not been materially aflected by becre- . motive that may have led the president i pending bill to enlarge the interstate
fContlniled" on Pace Thre"
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 22. Inside
workings of the German consulate of
Kan Francisco during war tunes were
revelled, today in the United Stales
district court by the cross-examination
t.t German Consul General Fran-i
Bcpp. accused with rix otnern ot con-
xptraciei to violate American neutral- i
Hy lv hindering shipments of war
munitions to England and her allies.
Bopp admitted existence of a 'sec
ret" German consulate "war fund'
aggregating more than JlOO.Onf. Sow
of the money, he said, cam? from Hi
German embassy in Washing in. Jolm
Preston, I'nited States district at
torney, was endeavoring to show th.il
the alleged tonsulates were financed
m a gigantic scale. He asked i'opp
Jf his war fund ever readied $1,00'',
boo. Ilopp said that it did no!,
Bopp said when he returned from
Germany in March. 1915. there was
$100,0110 in the war fund in the S.m
Francisco consulate. 1'reston asltel
what use was made of the money.
"We spent it to buy rubber and
nickel for Germany," iho consul rs
lilied. "We shipped the materials throuijh
neutral countries."
To what other us the money was
put was not revealed. While Preston
was questioning Bop'i about 'such nn
enormous fund," Bonn ex-laimd;
'Why the British consulate here has
millions."
WORKING
IHUuSi EMPLOYED
MEN ARE DEPORTED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
j HAVRE, Doc. 22. Specific details of i
'.the deports lions of Belgians refuting I
j tn reports from Berlin that only those Louve 50 workmen were taken. Fit'ty-
! without work were deported and ifjone iron workers were arrested hi the
io-(otilers were taken, it wa.s the fault of rolling mills at LaCroyere and 2r were
me neigian municipal nuinoriues, were i
communicated to the Associated press !
I todav hv Fernand l'asseleci, director !
of the documentniv bureau of the Bel-
deported were involuntary and imp::t-I seized, maKing it lmpossmie lor me
ing them to the bad faith of the Bel- i works to continue operations. I
gian authorities is entirely contrary to; From the lioel works at La Louviere
the facts," said M. Passelecq. -'It is to ! 259 men regularly employed were tak
he noted in Governor General von Riss- en, including the office manager, ten
ing's reply to the protest of the sena- j office employes, 21 foremen, and 21T
tors and deputies, recently made pub- ! workmen. The glass works at Jema
lic, that he did not dare to contest tne ! pher. the only establishment of its kind
facts concerning the arbitral y seizure j in the district, resumed work Decem
of employed persons.
"At yuaregnon, in the coal re?;on
south of ilons. 3,000 workmen were 1
I summoned and 304 deported, of which j
never nau neen out oi v. or:-i. ..i
deported, of whom 87 were working;
JafGhlin 151. were taken, of whom 4i
! were working. At Havre, Pelgium. the
mayor of the town offered to give
I proof concerning whether the men were
j employed or not. The proofs were re-
fused.
I'orty-six men. all regularly eni
nloved at the Baume-MareU rolling
mills at Haine St. Pierre. we-e taken.
WILSON'S NOTE
IS INTERESTING
G!
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
IHVIlllV Floe "'I Chi.C i.i.oHo..-
n(.re (.oniynung' President Wilson's
,1(,e ,Q ,jlp ,H.ulrlli
powers on the possibilities of the be1
subject of interest here.
Ali discussion in official quarters
emphasizes the point that the policy of
the entente allies and their procedure
towards the peace overtures of the cen
tra! powers (vill jiot be altered hy
President Wilson's " tipptJaraHic upon
the stage as a participant in events.
The entente allies will present their
reply to the central powers very soon.
und a reply to j Tf sidrvt Wilson will
President Wilson's note
utl.,i . ...in ...kp :.
was distri
predestined ,
course. The answer to President Wit-'
rpfim,. a fllr,her ever, of
" -
,.;..,, ,., ',.. ,..
'Continued on Page Two)
L
Questions nbout the movements of
detectives
for the Geiman consulat
brought a remark from Bopp thsU at
one time detectives engaged bv A.
Carnegie Ross, British consul general,
surrounded the German consulate.
"I'll betit cost him a lot of money,"
, Fopp added with a smile.
T T N
EVEAL BDPP TRIA
Death Toll of Masonic Home
; Fire Likely To Be Increased
Republican A. P. Leas-;ri Wire
WICHITA, Kas., Dec. 22. The crit- ,
ical condition of three persons injured
in the Kansas Masonic Home fire early
today caused fears tonight that the ,
death list of five would he increased.
Two of the injured are children,
Charles L Smuefcer, 7 years old, and
John Morse, aged 3, while the third is
Mrs. F.ttele Stewart, matron of the
children's department of the home. All I
were overcome by smoke before they I
could be rescued from the burning I
building and they were revived with '
difficulty. . j
It has been impossible to search i
thoroughly the ruins from which three '
charred bodies were recovered today, '
l
From the Gilson works at Laeroyere 0 '
employes were taken out of a total of
22Ti summoiKl. From the works at Del
uir-en. r mm tut- i.tu -oi, ,
bolt works at La Louviere, from thei
Compagnie Centrale de Construction
at Maine St. Pierre. 25 workmen were
taken. From the blast furnaces and
foundries at La Louviere, 70 per cent
of the tOtnl lllimber CllinlOVCd Were
ber 4, 1915, and worked without mter-
ruption increasing its output until .No-
vember 1, 1910, when it was shut down
for renairs until .November 10 with the
imeuiion ui ioi-i.-.i.--oii m- i-- ............. .
I More than half of the skilled workmen
at these works were arrested and de-
ported, including 40 per cent of the
blowers. 60 per cent of the first class
apprentices, S2 per cent of the second
class apprentices. 35 per cent of the
extenders, and all tit the electricians
and adjusters.
"Germany released a few hundred
out of the lOII.Odii taken to make a
show of magnanimity. The releases
were not spontaneous but were the re
, -ult of the pressing representations
i made by the American ami Spanish
1 ministers at Brussells.
! LEVY CASE TAKEN
UNDER ADVISEMENT
; DENVER. Dec. 22. P.emoval
' proceedings against Max and Sam
Levy, brothers, who until a few
I weeks ago operated with offices
I in Denver and F.isbee, Ariz., ended
I today when, after arguments of at-
i torneys. United States Commis- (
sioner Stone took the matter under i
! advisement. A decision is expected
i to be rendered next week. The i
I case was brought up in an infor- j
j mation filed after an indictment ;
had been brought in Arizona. (
I'nited States District Attorney
Harry B. Tedrow, who prosecuted i
the removal proceedings, sought to !
! have the Levy brothers trans- j
j ferred to Tucson, Ariz., to stand ;
: trial on the indictment, char-gin? I
! misuse of the Fnited States mails, j
I Liabilities of the Levy brothers are i
i said to have exceeded $800,000. ;
TIE HOLIDAYS
Republican A. P. Leased Wircl
WASHINGTON', Dec. 22. Confess
adjourned today for the Christmas
holbl-n-c t.. ra,r.nva,.r. f-,,, i
. , . - '
inn tnroA uvinua t t no uui.i ih
ne tnree weeks of the session
th-
: commerce commission. Efforts to ex-
tend for one year the life of the joint
committee investigating railroad ptob
lems were checked in the bouse to be
I renewed immediately alter the holi
j days.
The senate passed the immigration
j bill with its literacy test provision
i and it is now in conference. The sen
ate also began consideration of the
I District of Columbia prohibition iill
! and fixed January 9 for a vote.
I The national prohibition constitti
j tional amendment was reported fav
; orably from the judiciary commute--
in t'ach house
j House committees also reported th
Borland food Investigation witli a fa
orable resolution and the Susan B.
Anthony constitutional nmendment for
woman suffrage without recommenda
tion. Neither resolution advanced to
consideration in the house.
but hope was abandoned tonight that
the bodies of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Ferris, both near 80 years old, would
be found among the survivors scat
tered among many homes in Wichita.
The three bodies found today were
burned beyond recognition, but it is
consMered certain that they are those
of Jesse T. Brown, SO, and Mrs. Jesse
T. Brown, SO, and Miss Gertrude Wci
gle, 20 years old. .
Many of the rescued are under the
care of physicians.
Members of the board of trustees of
the institution arrived here tonight and
will confer tomorrow regarding the
erection of temporary buildings to
house the dependents deprived of a
home by the fire. s
I
, .
CONGRESS LAYS .
IRK HE FIR
TEUTONS bi ll
DRIVING ALLIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Except in northern Dobrudja, where
the troops of the central powers con
tinue to drive" the Russians and Ru
manians towards Bessarabia, there has
been little important activity on the
battle fronts of Europe.
The Russian troops in Dobrudja,
Petrograd announces, were forced to
retire northward under heavy attacks
from numerically superior hostile
forces. Berlin states that the Teutonic
army in Dobrudja continues to advance
successfully and announces the cap
ture of 900 Russian soldiers. East of
Lake Babadagh a Russian regiment,
Petrograd records, drove a force of
BuJgarians into Lake luolata. A great
many Bulgarians were drowned and
1 15 were made prisoners.
The artillery bombardment continues
at various points on the eastern front.
Berlin reports increased activity, espe
cially in the Somme sector and on the
east bank of the Meuse, in the Verdun
region, the scene of the latest French
adva nee.
In Galieia, near the Zlochoff-Tar-nopol
railroad, there has been a spir
ited engagement. Berlin reports the
breaking of the advanced Russian line
northwest of Xalostee, while Petro
grad says the Austro-Germans were
compelled to retire after occupying
some trenches. Some fighting has
taken place in the Trotus val
ley, on the Maldovain frontier and
along the Bystritz river in t-.e Car
pathians. El Arish, ninety miles east !
of the Suez .canal in Egypt, has been
captured by British troops. The town
had been occupied for two years by
the Turks, who had built strong en
trenchments around it. The defenders
fled from KI Arish on the approach
of the British army.
Teutons Advance
BERLIN, Dec. 22. (By wireless to
Sayville. Teutonic forces continue
to advance in the Dobrudja and have
taken WOO Russian prisoners, says the
official statement issued from German
general headquarters today. On the
other front there has been little ac
tivity. Christmas at the Front
WITH THE BRITISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE, Dec. 22, via London. (From
a staff correspondent of the Associated
Press.) In these last days before
Christmas it is a strange procession,
indeed, that winds its way on the
travel-scarred roads of northern
France to where the greatest armies I
the world has ever known are locked
in a life and death struggle.
Viewing with the semingly endless
train of motor trucks groaning under
capacity weights of powder, shells and
all the varied and sinister muterial
of war. are numberk-ss other trucks
fairly bulging with presents and greet-,
ings of the Vuletkie. Oddly enough
both types of trucks are decorated
paily with holly and mistletoe. It ap
pears now that no solder, regardless of
how humble his station, will be for
gotten. The handling of the vast amount of
mail for the English, Canadian and
Australian troops is fraughwith great
'Continued nn Page Three)
o
Teiper Guilty
Of Taking Life
Of His Mother
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EI FFALO. N. Y., Doc. 22. Ouiltv of
murder in the second degree was the
verdict returned by a jury late todav
against John Edward Teiper, charged
with, having killed his mother last Jan
uary. The jury deliberated 29 hours.
The verdict broke the iron nerve of
the young defendant, who throughout
the long trial had given no sign of
emotion. As the foreman of the jury
announced the verdict, Ttiper's strong
frame seemed to crumble. His knees
sagged and he would have fallen to the
floor had he not been caught bv a
deputy. "Oh, my God," he shrieked as
he struggled to rise, "this is not fair,
this is not human."
The sentence prescrilied for second
degree murder is a minimum of twenty
years imprisonment.
o
GREAT DEFICIT
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 22. Testify
in? before the house military com
mittee recently, Quartermaster Gen
eral Sharp said that if the national
guard were retained on the border nt
a strength of 75,000 men until June
HO. 1117, the dericlt would reach a
total of $50,000,000. It was more than
525,000,000 on October 1. and has in
creased in excess of $3,000,000 since
that time, according to the figures
presented today.
It is understood the strength of the
guard retained on the border pending
further development in the interm
'onni situation would approximately
'be 75,000 men making a total force
of about J 15.00a. including regulars,
compared with 200,000 there a few
months ago.
The supplemental estimate of $11,
laO.000 to maintain the guard during
the fiscal year 191 S is understood to
Include provision for ti e replacement
of clothing and other property which
the state soldiers brought with thein
into the federal service. The book
keeping problem presented by de-mo-
IN DOBRUDJA!
i
KEEPING GUARD
ON DUTY MEANS
, bilization of a considerable number of
guardsmen has been a serious one. It
is army custom that discharged sol-
, diers take! their clothing with them,
and presumably the de-mobilized re?-
J iments will have to be ie-outfitte 1.
AiemETOEor
YUMA COUNTY GIVES
CAMPBELL 10 VOTES
The inspection of the ballots yes
terday in the contest of Governor
Hunt against Thomas E. Campbell,
resulted in a ni t gain of ten lor the
latter which according to the figures
of the friends of the governor would
give Mr. Campbell a majority of one.
According to the figures of the friends
of Mr. Campbell, bis majority is now
twenty-seven. Previous to the re
sumption of the inspection on Thurs
day, it was claimed by the Campbell
workers that in the1 previous period of
inspection, .Mr. Campbell had sained
trirtetn votes and Governor Hunt,
twenty-six. The Hunt people claimed
that the governor's net. gain at that
time had been thirty-nine, giving him
a majority of nine over Mr. Campbell.
They took into calculation, however,
the fi'-e ballots in Alhamhra precinct
vhos character has not yet been de
termined The Campbell people do
-
BUFFALO BILL SUFFERS
1 FROM-NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
DENVER, Dec. :2. The condi
i tion of Col. William F. Cody (Buf
' falo Bill), ill at the home here of
! his dajighter, Mrs. May Decker.
I tonight wa.s said to be somewhat
improved. Coionel Cody has been
suffering from a nervous break
I down, aggravated hy a severe cold
: for about ten days. Attending phy
i sicians said recovery was assured
! within a few days unless he suffers
! a relapse.
r i
u !
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND. Ore.. Dec. 22. Ore-
gon's prohibition law was given a
nrnnni i nr ,
rtnauiiL uol
inn 1 n i n
I L II a LIIVL 1
III U. t. Grill)
OREGON JUDGE'
blow here today when Circuit Judge 1 satistactorv to them remains to be
Henry E. McGinn ruled that the stitescen Judge Cunningham, who wrot
had no authority to limit or prohibit I the det ision, holds that the operation
citizens from niaiiuf-u turinT or im- I of the pan muluel machine in Itself
porting liquor for private use. ; is not a crime, as the machine does
"If a man wants to go wrong cross ' not regulate to w hom the bets are to
lots, that is his affair," said the ' he paid, the result of the rac-? decides
judge, "but when he wants to send ' that. Neiiher is the man who oner
his neighbor wrong cross lots, then'ates the machine committing a crime,
it is the state's affair." j hut whether or not the people who
Th-? i-ulh'g was aimed at the pres- ' play the machines are gambling are
ent law, which prohibits importations, ! committing n crime is not settled,
but if it stands would apply, it was,' Chief Justice Ross especially concurs
believ ed, on the total prohibition law, I'in Justice Cunningham's decision, hut
which is expected to become effective i Justice Franklin dissents. Th" a-
next month. The decision was made
in an injunction suit filed bv A. Lima,
Portland, who asked that 'the police
officers be enjoined from searching
his premises for liquor.
U. S. Takes a Hand
SEATTLE, Dec. 22. The I'nited
States government has taken a hand
in the fight being made to prevent
shipments of liciior into this state, it
became' known today when federal
indictments were filed against four
men charging conspiracy to violate
interstate commerce laws by causing
a false record of illicit liquor ship
ments ti be made by railroads.
The government alleges that lognn
and Fred Billing-siey have shipped
into Seattle since last Marrh liquor
valued at IfiO.ooo whicn brought them
a profit of more than $200.0i0. It is
charged that they sold barreled whis
key at $8 a gallon. The Billinnsleys
and W. II. Pielow and 'William Fra
zir, transfer company men, were
WE ATE OP RECORDS OF THE
TRANSACTIONS IN HORSES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OMAHA, Dec. 22. The books of the
United States Livestock company,
charged in federal court here with use
of the mails to defraud in sales totaling
a million dollars, of wild horses sup
posed to have ranged the government
reservation in Coconino county, Ari
zona, were "of very little value," C. M.
Thompson, secretary-treasurer of the
company, today testified, and In 1912
he packed them in some boxes and put
them in the cellar of his house "and
the mice ate them up." He had been
able to find a few scraps of paper the
mice had not destroyed, he said, and
upon these fragments based his testi
mony concerning the wild horse trans
actions. In the purchase and 'sale of
the mustangs, the witness declared,
the I'nited States Livestock company
was "the victim and not the culprit
and actually lost money" in trades for
property that was valueless.
Thompson denied the company was
organized as a "get rich quick" scheme.
The firm really owned several thous
and head of wild horses, he said, which
were "mostly traded for real estate,"
which was deeded at once to "creditors
who were pressing for payment." The
government witnesses who testified
they lost money when they bought
mustangs the defendants were alleged
to have represented as "bred up from
imported Perchorons" did not buy the
horses for the market, Thompson as
serted, but admitted they intended to
trade them.
Charles Acker, Minneapolis, who
yesterday said he came here at the
suggestion of his wife to "help out" J.
not deny that the governor should
have them, yet they do not concede
them until further light has been
thrown upon them. That light may
not he shed until the ballots get into
court and some testimony has been
' introduced to show whether thy
were sioiled ballots or ballots which
j had been rejected in the count. If
;tbe latter, there would be a gain of
J fiv for the governor.
The gains of Mr. Cam' hell yestcr
' day were mostly made in the inspec
j tion of the Yuma ballots, where at 3
I o'clock he had made a net gain of
I eight, reduced by a net gain of one
' for the governor in the inspection of
, th" .Maricopa ballots. Later tbrea
I more were added to the Campbell list.
I About huK of the Yuma ballots
. have been inspected and about that
1 ratio of the. Maricopa ballots still
remain.
T
DISMISSES PARI
The decision i:i the case of S. W.
I McCall versus the state of Arizona,
better known as the Pari Mutuel case,
j was handed ('own yesterday by the
; supreme court. The case came up on
'appeal from the superior court of
Maiicc-pa county after Judge Stanford
! had l;eld that the operation of pan
! mutuel betting- machines was unlaw
ful. Judge McCall of Cochise county,
one of the most prominent horsemen
in. the state, brought the machine to
Phoenix dur-ng the 1915 fair, put it
Into operation one afternoon, was
promptly arrested and has been fight
ing the case ever since. ...
Every horseman and lover of snort
in the state lias been awaiting the
i decision. with keen anticipation
! Whether or not the decision will be
was removed to the superiof nrt
"nd instructions given to disi h-;e
defendant.
In speaking of the operation of th?
machine. Justice Cunningham says:
"Certainly holding the stake is noc
playing a game. Dividing the stake
and paying it out to the several win
ners is- not playing a game. Holding
a commission for the services ren
dered in the transaction is not play
ing a game. Neither can the furnish
ing of the tickets le considered as
playing a game. Under the evidence
the gpme played was the horse
race. The bets were laid on the re
sult of that contest. If a horse race
tm.iv he considered a game and a
gambling device, as some courts have
(Continued on Page Three)
named in the indictments. The ship
ments began, it. is claimed, soon after
the prohibition law became effective
in Washington.
! Sidney Smith, president of the United
! States Livestock company, and a dp
i fendant, was today placed under bonds
to insure his remaining here during
; the trial.
I A recess was taken until Tuesday af
, ternoon, when the defense is expected
J to rest its case.
j Forty-two . persons were indicted,
charged with use of the mails to de
fraud. Two pleaded . guiltv. twelve
were dismissed and eleven, who plead -
i ed not Siihy, are now being tried.
SUPREME
Ford To Be Allowed To
; Further Expand Plant
j Republican A. P. Leased Wirs
I LANSING. Mich., Dec. 22. Henry
i Ford scored two points in the state su
preme court this afternoon in the liii
; gation begun against him by John F.
and Horace E. Dodge, minority stock
holders of the Ford Motor company.
I The court denied the petition of the
Dodges, asking that the scope of their
injunction restraining Mr. Ford from
using the cash surplus of the Ford Mo
j tor company for expansion purposes,
I be broadened and granted an alterna
j five order on Mr. Ford's petition to
I have the injunction dissolved. By the
: terms of the latter order, the circuit
.court, which granted the temporary re
TACKING CITY
TROOPS BEING
TO ID
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO. Tex.. Doc. 22.
All Americans and other for
eiffners have left Torrcon.
which Villa is reported to be
attaekinir. according to an
American arriving here to
night irom that district bv
way of Eagle Pass. The last
:f the foreigners, who inten
ded to remain as long as they
dared, came out about a
week aco, he' said. On his
way to the border the AWr-
ican l assed ciiiht troon
trains, which were said to be
destined for Torrcon to rein
force the trarrison there.
This garrison is under the
ommand of General Pala-
mantes, and is composed of
yaqm Indians, accord
ing to the same authority.
There has been a consider
able increase in rebel activ
ities in north Central Mexico
the past few weeks, the
refugee said, . including tic
capture of the large town of
San Pedro, some miles to the
east of Torrcon on the rail
way Jine to Monterey. A
robef leader named Salinas
was credited with, this ex
ploit. Other passengers arriving
here from central and lower
central Mexico say that reb
els have made train service
hazardous between Mexico
'City and Vera Cruz by de
railing trains, although the
irenorts ot PnehLn .mid fiM;
ba falling are untrue. Car
ranza troops still hold Cuer
navaca, they said, but. the
Zapata guerillas make them
selves felt at isolated spots.
Bauds sympathizing with
Felix Diaz were reported to
be largely in control of the
Isthmus of Teliuantepec.
I "official reports received in Juarez
tonight say General Francisco Mur
guia. the new commander of the opera
tions against Villa, will arrive in Juarez
with his staff tomorrow from Chihua-'
hua City. His coming revived the ru
mor that the present military chief of
dluT2' ?,ener,al Francisco Gonzales,
will be relieved because of his associa
tion with the Trevino regime.
For Free Border Zone
noi-GLAS, Dec. 22-General p.
(Continued on Page Two)
n
CHRISTMAS CAROLS WITHOUT i
THE CHRIST CHILD
CHICAGO, Dec: 22.Christmas '
carols, sung in practically all of !
Chicago s public schools today
oum'!4''1 ,menti'i of the Christ
Child. The changes in the carols '
resulted from a recent order from I
the superintendent of schools call- !
ing to a state law prohibiting any 1
thing of a religious nature in ei.i I
I exercises. "
n
straining order, is directed to modify
it and let Mr. Ford proceed with con
tracts he has made, providing lie files
a bond acceptable to the court, or if the
circuit court refuses this, it is ordered
to show cause why the entire injunc
tion should not be dissolved."
The Dodge brothers want the Ford,
, 1'iuiiiH uisourseu as dividends. The
decision on Mr. Ford's petition will
permit him to proceed with the execu
tion of contracts for the construction
of a larce smelter furnace near Detroit
and the bond will protect tha Dodges
l from any loss in that connection.
j The alternative order is made re
turnable January 9.
RUSR
