THE DONALDSONVILLE CHIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLVI. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1916. NUMBER 21
C _ m ... ... . .. ...il. - -amm i l ii I- nia H ml lH l . il l 'ime ] imil il I | i I ,
I . NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS I
-4 1 Coming Attractions at'the Local Movie Houses
1t~
Next Week's Bill at the Grand.
Sunday-Mme. Petrova in "Extrav
agance," and Ham and Bud in "Bogus
Book Agents."
Monday-Anita King in "The Heir
to the Hoorah," and Mutt and Jeff
cartoon.
Tuesday-Valkyrien and the Lee
chitxren in "The unwelcome Molh
e ."
Wednesday-Sessue Hayakawa and
Myrtle Stedman in "The Soul of
Kura-San."
Thursday-Pauline Frederick in
"The World's Greatest Snare."
Friday-Clara Kimball Young in
"My Official Wife."
Saturday-Second episode of "The
Shielding Shadow," "The Girl from
Frisco," "Lonesome Luke" comedy
and Pathe News.
"Extravagance." ,
The theme of "Ex~c.e2ance,"
in which Mme. Petrova will be seen
at the Grand Sunday, is an excellent
one. The story opens with every
promise of being interesting, and as
might be expected from its title,
points a moral.
Norma Russell, the part played by
Mme. Petrova, is the daughter of a
man whose motto is, "Give me the
luxuries of life, and I can get along
without the necessities."
Norma has not been brought up to
deny herself anything, and her ex
travagance forces her father to bor
row money from Howard Dundore, a
banker, who is in love with the girl.
Franklin Hall, a young business
man, is also an admirer of hers, and
Norma returns his affections. Dun
dore is not an honorable man. and at
tempts to secure Norma by means of
a note her father has forged. Frank
lin Hall saves Mr. Russell from this
situation, and Norma and he are mar
ried.
Later on Dundore gets Hall into his
power and has him convicted of false
entries on the books of the bank.
While Hall is serving his sentence his
wife is forced to earn her own living.
She takes to writing moving picture
scenarios, is well paid for her efforts,
and invents a picture plot, which is
the means of establishing her hus
band's innocence.
The scenes of social life in "Ex
travagance" are well done, and have
the proper air of good breeding. Mme.
Petrova has not the slightest difficulty
in making the most of her opportuni
and wears a number o 'string
gowns.
"The Heir to the Hoorah."
There is plenty of popular atmos
phere in "The Heir to the Hoorah,"
which will be the Monday attraction
at the Grand. It has quality and tells
the kind of story that democratic au
diences are apt to like. To begin
with, it discredits that commercial
spirit that tries to spoil youth's love
story. To be asked to use love to
butter one's bread has always disgust
ed youth. The picture's villainess is
the heroine's mother, whose eye sees
only the main chance. The hero is
a rich westerner who, with two part
ners, owns the "Hoorah." a gold mine.
The two get it into their heads that
the mine must have an heir and they
try to choose a wife for the young
partner. The only women they know
are the dance hall girls, but these
disgust the hero. The heroine, mean
while, is in the east and refusing the
witless moneybags her mother insists
she marry. She and her mother come
west and meet the hero. He is the
kind any girl could love, and they get
married. The story tells how they
find out that they really love each
other. But it is the good American
characters that keep the ctiorn alive
with humor and hu'ainity.
Thomas Meighar: plyv:, the hero,
with Anita King in the opp,:i;e role.
"The Unwelcome Mother."
The story of a mysterious m.n, who
falls in love with a girl ..l -arcely
knows, and originates his 'wn mar
riage ceremony, is told in the William
Fox photoplay, "The Unwelcomes
Mother," which comes to the Grand
Tuesday. The production is acted t
by an all-star cast, headed by Valky- I
rien and the famous Lee children.
"The Soul of Kura-San."
Excellent acting and skillful pro
duction make "The Soul of Kura
San," to be shown at the Grand Wed
nesday, an unusually gripping picture.
The story is hectic, but the motives
are not overdrawn and lead up to a
strong climax. Of the three principal
characters, two are Japanese. These
two parts are acted by Sessue Haya
kawa, so favorably known to the
screen, and Tsuru Aoki, his talented
wife. Myrtle Stedman plays a young
American girl who becomes the object
of the Oriental's vengeance. Haya
kawa's character is that of Foyo, a
poor Japanese artist who loves Kura
San, the daughter of a teahouse pro
prietor. The pair are too poor to
marry and are about to commit sui
cide when Foyo is sent for by his
Wealthy uncle in America.
While Foyo is away Kura-San's
father makes her believe Foyo has
been married. Z"he girl then consents
to pose for an American artist and
goes to live with him. When Foyo
returns to Japan and Kura-San learns
the truth she kills herself after con
tasing that the artist has dishonored
•er. Foyo, now wealthy, returns to
America, bent on avenging Kura
-a. He learns that the artist is en
hged to marry Anne Willoughby, a
beautiful American girl. Foyo lures
to girl to his house and, before a
Picture of Kura-San, attempts to re
ay the artist in kind. The American
arrives in time to prevent Foyo from
tteeomplishing his purpose, and the
Japanese kills himself at the foot of
-San's picture.
e offense that such a story might
e under less intelligent handling is
skillfully avoided in the present case.
The settings throughout, Japanese
and American, are correct in every
detail, and the artistic impersonations
contributed by Sessue Hayakawa,
Myrtle Stedman and Tsuru Aoki lift
the picture into the field of tragedy.
In the last scene the struggle between
the Japanese and the American girl
strikes a strong note-it almost be
comes symbolic of a conflict between
the two races.
"The World's Great Snare."
"The World's Great Snare," in
which Pauline Frederick will be pre
sented at the Grand next Thursday,
paints with a virile brush the high
lights of cafe life in a western min
ing town where men live by the sweat
of their brows and guard what they
earn by the quickness of their trigger
lingers. Into this life there is sudden
ly projected a woman whose knowl
edge of the world has not been gained
from books, but who has been im
measurably softened by a great love
for the one man who saw in her beau
ty something beside an enchanting
toy.
The man has come to America in
search of information which will es
tablish his claim to the earldom of
Wessemere. Myra discovers that it!
is her own husband-a detestable
coward and bully-who holds the in
formation. Bryan, the young Eng
lishman, has already won her heart,
and this elemental woman suddenly
faces the problem of deciding wheth
er she shall keep silent concerning her,
knowledge and enjoy the love of Bry- !
an, or whether she should give him up
to the world beyond the sea and. re
store to him the estatew hich is law
fully his.
In the terrible struggle which fol
lows the nobler nature of the woman
conquers, and she even risks her life
and freedom in order to give Bryan
the certificate which establishes his
claim.
Some of the incidents of the story
for.m striking scenes in the produc
tion, among them the great cafe scene
in which Miss Frederick appears as
the dancer, and the fight in the caie
in which Bryan and Rutten, a gam
bler and degenerate, engage in a
desperate struggle, the latter being.
finally hurled over the balcony railing
to the tables on the floor below.
There follows a general riot which is
one of the most thrilling spectacles
"My Official Wife."
The Vitagraph productio -of .vfMy
Official Wife," which the Grand an
nounces as its Friday offering, will
always rank as one of the notable
achievements of the screen. The
story offers every requisite for the
making of a vital, brilliantly colored
and strongly dramatic photoplay, and
no opportunity has been overlooked
in filming the picture. Most of the
scenes are laid in St. Petersburg, and
the Russian atmosphere has been
counterfeited with convincing skill.
The action at the Russian frontier
and at the railway station in St. Pe
tersburg, the Imperial entry into the
grand ballroom, the chase after the
beautiful Nihilist and her lover, and
the destruction of the yacht by gun
fire, are all striking situations in a
photoplay that is without a dull mo
ment. The acting is of the same or
der of excellence.
With a cast headed by Clara Kim
ball Young and containing the names
of Harry T. Morey, Earle Williams,
Rose E. Tapley, Mary Anderson, Ar
thur Cozine, Charles Wellesley,
Louise Beaudet, L. Rogers Lytton and
Eulalie Jensen, and the direction in
the hands of James Young, the suc
cess made by the picture when first
released is not difficult to understand.
S. J. C. I. HONOR ROLL.
List of Students Scoring High Aver
ages in November Test.
Graduating Course-Pierre Lan
dry, Robert Courreges, Edward Han
son, George Cox.
Ninth Grade-Carl Mollere, Man
uel Hidalgo, Hewey Brescher, Louis
Picou.
Eighth Grade-Lynn Colomb, Cur
tis Bourdier, Leo. Mattingly.
Seventh Grade-Richard Hanson,
Linden Melancon, Ayraud Landry,
John Landry, Rene Courreges, Rene
G( udin, Marcel Brou, Claude Her
nandlez, Ralph Betz, Norman Hidalgo.
Sixth Grade-Everette Melancon,
Lowell Gisclard, Numa Courreges,
Henry Maurin, Pasquale Mistretta,
John Park, Arthur Veron, William
Doran, Aristide Landry, Irwin Mol
lere, Clarence Richard, Anthony
Schroeder, Nicholas Falleta.
Fifth Grade-Wilson Eris, Samuel
St. Martin, Emile LeBoeuf, Arthur
Colomb, Joseph Dalferes, Jules Lan
dry, Camille Signa, Beatty Blanchard,
Andrew Landry, John Sanchez, Jos.
Gagliano, Arthur Acosta, Lloyd Bour
dier, Michael Milano, Conrad Goette,
Edward Gauthreaux, Maurice Robert.
Fourth Grade-Caleb Weber, Ce
cil Dabadie, Dumond St. Martin, Mi
chel Rossie, Bryan Landry, Atal Sar
radet.
Third Grade-C. Belliafore, D.
Doran, A. Bush, L. Gaudin, J. Erato,
L. LeBlanc, Theodore Judice.
French Course--Class C: Robert
Courreges, Pierre Landry, Ayraud
Landry, Carl Mollere, George Cox,
Leonard Braud, Louis Picou, Libby
Robert, Clay Braud, Marcel Brou,
Rene Gaudin, Claude Hernandez.
Class B: Linden Melancon, Lynn
Colomb, Norman Hidalgo, Manuel Hi
dalgo, A. Dalferes, M. Barthelemy, A.
Richard. Class A: Edward Hanson,
Daniel Foley, Frank Noel.
It is to everybody's interest to pa
tronize home industries. No com
munity can succeed where this policy
is not carried out. Keep your money
at home.
"WHERE ARE MY CHILDREN?"
y Famous Photoplay at Gem Theatre
s Tomorrow.
Those who have anxiously awaited
a chance to view the mammoth pro
j duction, "Where Are My Children?"
I will have their opportunity tomor
row, when the famous picture will
Sbe shown at the Gem Theatre.
Never in the history of motion pic
tures has so delicate a subject been
attacked with such marked realism
as this humane plea for the regula
tion of birth control. The Smalleys,
creators of "Scandal" and "Hypo
crites," produced it, and have given
it a mounting as lavish as the silent
drama has yet conceived. Originality
t has been the Smalley slogan ever since
feature productions have become
popular. In '"Where Are My Chil
-dh'en?" they t~Ach a subject which is
Sof vital impbamn e to every man and
I woman who has the interest of the
present and future generation at
heart. The morbid and sensational
will find no comfort in "Where Are
My Children?" It is a powerful in
dciftrerrt of race suicide.
Everay strata of life is affected in
its mission-from the wife of the dis
trict attorney of New York to the all
trusting little daughter of his house
keeper, who was the victim of his own
brother-in-law. The trial of the phy
sician for malpractice is one of the
most impelling climaxes yet given to
motion pictures. Evidence adduced
in the ti ial tells the district attorney
that before sittinge in judgment of
others he should investigate the af
fairs of his own household, and this
i' the most startling development in
the denouement of "Where Are My
Children?"
Bessie Barriscale in "Plain Jane."
Bessie Barriscale in "plain Jane,"
which is booked as the Gem's Christ
mas offering, scores not only a per
sonal triumph but wins unqualified
plaise for the picture as well.
To quote from some of the princi
pal reviews:
Morning Telegraph:-"The out
standing features of the program at
the Rialto this week are the Triangle
stars, Bessie Barriscale and Charles
Ray, in 'Plain Jane,' and William Col
lier in a novel absurdity called 'Never
Again.' As the 'chamber lady' of a
college boarding house, Miss Barris
ization."
New York American :-"A new Tri
angle play 'PlaLn Jane, with essi -
Barriscale and Charles Ray, was giv
en its initial showing at the Rialto
Theatre yesterday. The film play is
founded on the story of 'Ugly Duck
ling.' and proved an admirable vehicle
for' its featured players."
New York Herald:-"At the Rialto
Theatre, Miss Bessie Barriscale and
Charles Ray are seen for the hirst
time in 'Plain Jane,' a Triangle cone
dy that provided an enjoyable hour's
entertainment."
New York Times:--"A new varia
tion of the theme of the ugly duck
ling forms the basis of 'Plain Jane,'
the Rialto's new feature. Bessie Bar
riscale plays the role of the girl, so
she has no difficulty in looking beau
tiful when the time comes. Charles
Ray impersonates the college lad in
telligently. The atmosphere of a
fresh water college is reasonably
faithful. The story is sprightly and
amusing enough to suggest a further
exploration of the college campus for
movie material."
"The Heart of a Hero."
Every American honors Nathan
Hale, the man who said: "I regret
that I have but one life to give for
my country." "The Heart of a Hero"
is a visualization of the romantic side
of Nathan Hale, the immortal hero of
the American Revolution. The set
tings in this picture, exterior and in
terior, are most-authentic of the times
when Americjn ) in its making. It
rings with patri'tism, thrills with ex
citement, cherishes with fond memo
ries, and touches the heart with its
wonderful love. It is a story that the
whole world will enjoy seeing, for the
reason that it portrays the strength
of a strong man and a loving woman.
and as one of the critics said, "Is a
story that will be discussed by every
body for its greatness and its beauty."
This beautiful photoplay will be
the offering at the Gem Theatre Sun- I
day, Dec. 31.
A SAFE TEST.
For those who are in need of a
rcmedy for kidney troubles and back
ache, it is a good plan to try Doan's
Kidney Pills. They are strongly rec
ommended by Plaquemine people.
Mrs. L. I. Roberts, Plaquemine,
La., says: "I had pains through the
small of my back, and at times my
back seemed broken. I could hardly
stand on account of pains in my kid
I nevs. The kidney secretions at times
passed too frequently and then again
they were scanty and contained sedi
ment. My head ached and sharp,
shooting pains ran up my spine and
down my limbs. Doctors gave me no
i relief and I began using Doan's Kid
nce Pills. The misery in my,,bladder
left and my kidneys again acted reg
ularly. I gained in weight and felt
better in every way."
Price 50c, at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy-get
Doan's Kidney Pills-the same that
Mrs. Roberts had. Foster-Milburn
Co., Props.. Buffalo, N. Y.--.(Adv.)
If you buy out of town, and we
buy out of town. and all o-ur ne..
bors buy out of town, what in thun
der will become of our town?
As usual, Mrs. Wahl's stock of toys,
dolls, novelties, fireworks, and Christ
mas goods of every description is the
largest and most varied in torm.
For local news read The Chief.
SCHOOL AFFAIRS REVIEWED.
Attendance Increased, but Many CLil
dren Not Euiolled.
To the Honorable President and Mem
bers of the School Board:
The following report from Septem
Y ber 4, the date set by your body for
the opening of the public schools of
the parish, to this day, is most respect
e fully submitted.
The schools throughout the parish
were opened for the session of 1916
17 September 4, with jfull comple
ment of teachers nui' ering sixty
two. These teachers= were selected
with great care. and I wish to say
1 that I have no fear any will fall short
of the confidence and trust I have
placed in them. These reported to
D)onaldsonv-ille for one day, and were
g'iven the necessary instructions for
the session.
i)uring' the first scholastic month
Jno. M. Foote, state supervisor of ru
:'al schools, made an inspection of the
majority of our rural schools. I ac
companied MIr. Foote on his inspec
tion and our joint visits resulted very
profitably to me. The State Board of
Education this session has recom
mended that greater stress be laid on
the subjects of reading and arithme
tic in the grades. Accordingly the
schools inspected were examined by
Mr. Foote on these two subjects. In
general the reading and number-workj
tests riclusively -showed that these
two subjects have not received the at
tention and thoroughness due them.
I took up the work immediately in all
of our ::'hools, rural and high, and Ii
.m plea ':i to report that the teachers
throughout the parish are giving more
time. thought and attention to these
two essential subjects;
The compulsory school attendance
!avx, while not enforced, is being
brouo ht gmradu'olly and forcibly to
the attention of the patrons. Teach
ers were instructed to co-operate with I
the supceintendent in making this
session an educational one along that
line. Tihat some good has been ac
complish.d the following compara
tive data of last session and this ses
sion at the end of the third scholastic
month will fully demonstrate: t
Session 1915-16. Session 1916-17.
Donaldsonville High School ................ 478 Donaldsonville High School ............. 464
Gonzales High School ........................ 320 Gonzales High School......................... 355
Dutchtown High School..: .................. 238 Dutchtown High School .......-...... .... 253
Oak Grove Hi-:h School- ................. . 159 Oak Grove High School ...................... 151
Lake .... ...................----..............-- ....... 47 Lake ..... -- -....... .. .. ........... ............... 63
St. A rm ant ............ ......................-- -- 48 St. Am ant .................................... .... 139
Sacremento ...........................- .....---- - - 92 Saerem ento .......................................... 90
Calbasee . .........- 59 Calbasse .....a . .-- -- t 98
Singletarye - .. . ............ . . ..-......... 2-.76 Singletary .. ...
BMartin ...e . .. ................w..;:-.........-. 96 ' B. e M Hel.a.. :, -..._........ ... _......:... . `.. - _
Brittany ...43 ....... . - ...........--....... 43 Brittany. . ...-. ...... ..... ..... ...... 2
Geisem ar .2m.. .... ........... ..G....... . ..... ... 4' eis Mmr- a- . - - - - --............ ..........._ ..- 3 .. .... -
M artin .. ........ .......... 3 M r oy . ..... ....
Black Bayou -------^-----. Black 90
Elise M emorial ................................... 45 E ise M emorial .............. .............. 44
_ :.- --C Gr eief :r cv .... ...................... orevrt-43
McElroy 32 M cElroy ...................... ...................... 30
Galvez . 134 Galvez --------- ---- 152
Sorrento 59 Sorrento ---- --------- 64
Johnson ...... ......51 Johnson ............................................ 43
Total ................ 2276 'totnal ..... 2469
This shows an increase of 193 pu
pils. While in a measure this is sat
isfactory, yet when we consider that
there are in this parish, according
to the last census on educables, 3600
white children between the ages of
six and eighteen, and only 2469 en
rolled, (1131 out of school), this in
crease of 193 admits of improvement.
These 1131 pupils must be reached,
and will be next session when the
compulsory school attendance law
is enforced.
Of the numerous schools showing an
increase I wish to call the board's
special attention to the St. Amant
school. This school shows a marvel
ous growth and within the space of
three months. This school last ses
sion enrolled 48 pupils and had one
teacher. This session it shows an en
rollment of 139, and a faculty of
three teachers. This increase is part
ly due to the consolidation of the
Melancon school, and the limiting of
the grades at the Singletary school,
but in a large measure to the ener
:etic principal and teachers of the
school and to the great interest the
patrons are manifesting toward edu
cation.
With the exception of the McElroy
school, I have visited all the schools
of the parish, some once and others
two to four times. With the excep
tion of the Singletary school and the
Black Bayou school, the work being
dlone throughout the parish is very
satisfactory. In the Singletary and
Black Bayou schools good work is
impossible owing to the large en
rollment. These two schools, Black
Bayou with an enrollment of 90
pupil and one teacher, and Sin
gletary with an enrollment of 85 pu
pils and one teacher, should receive
the serious attention of the board.
Additional teachers are needed in
these schools, as it utterly impossible
for a teacher to even make an at
temnt to handle a school with an en
ro!hment of 76 or 90 pupils. Similar
lara'e enrollments exist in the Don
a!dMonville High School in the grades.
Grades were divided into sections,
one section reporting in the morning
for instruction and the other in the
afternoon, as in the third grade,
and similar methods had to be re
sorted to for the advanced first and
the second grade. The teachers have
willingly shouldered this extra work,
but I feel, as well as they do, that
the result cannot be to the greatest
advantage of the pupils.
I regret to report that considera
ble opposition has developed among
a few of the Singletary patrons to
the limiting of their school to a one
teacher school, and to the step I took
since the opening of the session in
limiting the school to the third grade.
As the patrons have petitioned the
board to return the school to its
former status, that of a two-teacher
school with grades to the seventh, it
will be necessary for me to use a few
figures to justify my action in rec
ommending to the board the reducing
of the school to a one-teacher school
and also to justify the step I took in
limiting the school to the third grade
since the session opened.
The report of Miss May Girshefski
for the session 1915-16 shows that
i
she enrolled during the whole session
in the fifth and sixth grades the fol
i owing number of pupils:
Enrolled Attendance
-St month 3
- 2nd month . .3
3rd month ... .. 7 5.:
ith month 7 5.2
- th monIth . "
th month 7 4.A
Average for the six months .... . ..4.,:
The above figures show an average
attendance of less than five pupils
for two gradeg. The board would not
be justified to employ a teacher at
S55 per month to teach two grades
with such a low enrollment and at
ten dance.
This session the school opened with
an unusually large enrollment in the
lower grades, especially in the first,
but with still a very poor enrollment
in the fourth grade. The report of
Miss Meyer for the first two months
follows:
First Month.
Enrolled Attendance,
ist grade .. .05 0.00
2nd tirade . .A 1 S.00
:rd grade .. 13 10.00
Ith grrade 5........ 11- 8.50
scond i""nth.
lst -rade . 65 50.00
ond ade. . .. 12 8.45
id l grade .. . 14 P . 95
4th grade 11 . 5
The above figuies show._w that
the patrons of the Sing gl
are not patronizing the bove
the third grade. I1-viev x t fact
1 and to give an oppnr.tun.iy to- he,-o
Ifew pupils in the fifth and ' sixth.
gnrades. and to relieve :Miss Meyer of
a grade with so few pupils, and to
give those three grades the. benefit of
a consolidated school, I liut a trans
fer in operation between the St.
Amant consolidated schoo}t and the
Singletary school. All..-upils ab 've
the third grade in .gingletary school
are transferredi to the St. Amant
school. 'This trahsfer will be operated
at a cpst of $30 to the board. As
compaPi~d with the cost of a princi
pal therei c ., saing , and beside the
pupils are enjoyln. .t4e benefit of, a
well graded consolidat i%5haiO1.
In order to facilitate the attendance
of the pupils from the Melancon
school at the St. Amant school, it
was found necessary to operate a
transfer from the former school. This
has been done at a cost of $20 per
month to the board.
On account of the large enrollment
in the fourth and fifth grades in the
Gonzales High School, it was neces
sary to employ an extra teacher for
those grades. Also an extra teacher
was employed in the St. Amant
school. 1 therefore submit for your
approval the name of Miss Dorothy
Dyer for Gonzales High School, and
Miss Claire Griliot for the St. Amant
school, both Normal graduates.
I wish to report the resignations of
Miss Ruth Seiler, J. B. Picot, Sterling
LeBlanc and Miss Cecilia Gardner.
Successor:: for the above teachers
have not as yet been appointed.
The Galvez consolidated school is
now completed and in use by the pu
Adils and teachers. This school is a
modern frame building, containing
four large class rooms, well lighted
and well ventilated. The latest sys
tem of heating, the jacketed stove,
which heats a continuous supply of
fresh air, has been installed in the
building. That, with new, modern
desks already purchased, and a three
acre plot of ground for the teaching
of the elements of agricuur.' will
give the community a typ" - 'rural
school equal to any in the state. It
will be necessary for the board to
authorize me to receive the two
arre plot purchased for that school
by the patrons.
I have purchased from F. Kohn a
transfer wagon for $45, payable as
soon n.a will be convenient by the
board. it was necessary to buy a set
of wheels for the wagon at a cost of
- II
THE HOME MERCANTILE
ICOMPANY, LIMITED, ex
tends to its friends and pa
trons sincere good wishes and
the season's greetings. We
are grateful for the patronage
accorded us during the past
year, and our hope is that dur
ing the coming twelvemonth
our relations will be equally
pleasant and satisfactory ...
REMEMBER, WE ARE ALWAYS
AT YOUR SERVICE
w .... ~i MR4 '
1 $32. The total cost of the transfer
- amounted to $77, which may he con
sidered a bargain. I submit my ac
tion in this matter for your approval.
The state has again curtailed its
appropriations for the agricultural
and domestic science courses to the
amount of $603. This shortage, with
the addition of two teachers and two
transfers, will require the greatest
economy from now on to run all our
schools the nine-month session.
It is with pleasure that I announce
that the police jury has re-instated
the beneficiary cadetship to the La.
State University. The examination
for the scholarship was held during
the latter part of November and was
participated in by the following
young men: Robert Harp, Vincent
Vegas, R. Babin, Gay Martin and C.
M. Babin. Questions for the exami
nation were prepared by the faculty
of the State University, and the an
swers graded by the faculty. The
scholarship was won by Robert Harp,
of Donaldsonville.
SA special feature inaugurated this
session in the Donaldsonville High
School which deserves mentioning is
the organization of a military com
pany, composed of the members of
tho high school boys and also a few
of the boys of the sixth and seventh
grades. This company, under the
leadership of Otto Mestayer, a grad
uate of the La. State University, is
'progressing so satisfactorily, and the
r'esults are so beneficial to the pupils,
that-I suggest that the board approve
this new branch of instruction and
recommend that it be extended so as
to includee the seventh grade.
Respectfully submitted,
H. P. BROUSSARD, Supt.
NEW ME'.IBERS FOR MOHAWK.
Thirteen alefaces Admitted Into
Tribe` at Class Initiation.
Mohawk's "great junior class" of
nevnw.members, so named in honor of
,r. Paul T. Thibodaux, past sachem
of the tribe and presen tgreat junior
sagamore of the reservation of Lou
isiana, were initiated into the mys
teries of the order wits impressive
ceremonies last Supday' afternoon.
Despite the inclement .weather pre
vailing, palefaces to the number of
thirteen presented themselves at the
wigwam of the tribe to receive the
adoption degree, and a large attend
ance of chiefs assembled to witness
the conferring of the obligation by
Mohawk's champion degree team.
':promptly at 2:30 o'clpck, the tribe
was called to order by reat Junior
Sagamore Thibodaux, sisted by the
following *chiefs: D puty Great
Sachem Henry Duga, enior Saga
more Otto Mestayer, ,unior Saga
Paul J. Gisclard, Prop. (chief of
records)_ "Sister" _ Charlie Gaudin
First Sannap (past sachem) Emile
Rodrigue, Guard of the Forest Alex
Collet, and Guard of the Wigwam
(past sachem) B. D. Allen.
Great Prophet Elrie Robinson, of
St. Francisville, being present, he was
invited by the presiding chief to a
seat next to the sachem. While the
committee on applications were mak
ing their report, the great prophet
made a short talk to the assembled
chiefs, which was greatly appreciat
edl.
The time having arrived for the
conferring of the degrees, Mohawk's
degree team took the floor, under the
leadership of Captain Paul T. Thi
bodaux, Sr., and the degrees were
conferred in Mohawk's own peculiar
style, which elicited much applause
from the assembled chiefs, as like
wise the palefaces.
Short talks under the head of
"'good of the order" were made by
several of the newly elected chiefs,
including Mayor Walter Lemann,
Joseph Blanchard, Sr., Jules Landry,
J.. O. Lorio, Jr.. Great Keeper of
Wampum Paul J. Gisclard, and Great
Junior Sagamore Thibodaux.
The adoption degree will be con
ferred next Tuesday upon two pale
faces who were unable to be present
last Sunday, and ten more applica
tions are expected before the close of
this great sun.
The next primary election for
United States senator will be held in
August, 1918. No one will be quali
fied to vote at that election unless he
has paid his poll tax for the years
1916 and 1917. If you do not wish
to be debarred from participating in
such an important election, be sure
to pay your poll tax before the end of
the present month.
Buy it in Donaldsonville.
er CONFEDERATE PENSIONS'
ai
c- No Increase Possible Ulness Addition
.l. al Revenue is Provided.
ts
l For the information of pensioners
e who are anxious to know if their pen
sh sions are to be increased, and if so at
,o what time, the Pension Board has pre
;t pared the following statement:
ir Article 303 of the constitution of
1913 fixed the sum of $550,000 to pay
e Confederate pensioners, out of the
d revenue derived from the one
i. mill tax assessed for that purpose,
n and provided that any surplus from
g said fund should be turned over to
s the common scnool fund.
g 'this article was amended at the
t Iasi congressional election in Novem
ber, 1916, so as to set aside the entire
proceeds of the one-mill tax to pay
y Confederate pensioners.
The total assessment of the state
e for 1916 will he about $597,000,000;
therefore the proceeds of the one-mill
tax cannot exceed $597,000, which
s would be an increase of $47,000 over
i the sum now available.
s The Pension Board at its meeting
- in June, 1916, took all the names of
l eteians and their widows from its
vad ing list, and ced them on tne
payroll. We no n~ .on the active
roil 3115 veterans and 2970 widows,
or a total of 6085.
It requires the annual sum of
$584,160 to nay each pensione-er $24
per quarter, or $8 per month.
The Pension Board has on file at
present 447 applications for pensions.
If the board has not sufficient funds
to provide for all the applicants, the
remaining ones will have to be put on
the waiting list.
It has been suggested that the
board ought to reduce the pensions of
6(000 pensioners to make room for a
few hundred. The board is of opinion
that it would be exceedingly unjust
and unfair to punish the many for
the few. All the more so when you
consider that most of the pensioners
were admitted when the law allowed
them to possess only $500 in proper
ty, whereas the law of 1916 allows
the applicant for a pension to possess
property assessed at $2000, and quite
a number of the new applicants come
under this law.
If the legislature wishes to give the
pensioners $25 per month it must set
aside three mills instead of one, based
on the present assessment of the
state; in other words, it will have to
triple the rate of the tax.
The Pension Board, in conclusion,
extends to all the pensioners best
wishes for a Merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year.
E. F. BRIAN,
, Secretary.
Pay -Yeuw Pl 'alrxefor-Jan or
Lose Right to Vote.
The News-Star does not feel dis
posed to put forth any extraordinary
effort in order to induce men to pay
their poll tax. We feel that those
who desire to exercise the right of
franchise should be more than will
ing to pay the small tax demanded,
and if they are not thoughtful
enough to pay this tax without being
urged to do so. then they should be
deprived of the privilege of voting.
Property owners will be forced to
pay this tax, sooner or later, but if it
is neglected until after December,
31 they, too, lose the right to vote
for two years.
The tax required is only one dol
lar, 95 cents of which goes to the
public school fund and helps to edu
cate the children of the parish.
Surely there can be no serious objec
tion to contributing this small sum
to the support of the public schools,
and if it is paid prior to January 1 it
also gives those who thus pay the
right to vote in any and all elec
tions held. If it is not paid before
the date specified, the privilege to
vote will be withheld for two
years.
Those who fail to pay this tax on
or before January, 1, 1917, will not
be permitted to vote in any election
held during the years 1917 and 1918.
Nor will they be permitted to hold
any office within the gift of the peo
ple during that,'+o . The law is
very plain and speific on this point,
and declare.s that any one holding of
fice must be a qualified elector. There
fore, no squaw man-one who fails to
pay the tax-is or can be a qualified
elector, hence cannot hold an office of
any kind or description-legally.
Pay your poll tax now.-Monroe
News-Star.
Gonzales "Hi" Wins Another.
The Gonzales High School basket
ball team continued its winning streak
by defeating the strong team of Re
serve High School in an interesting
game at Gonzales last Saturday after
noon. the sco:e being 27 to 16. This
was the secoi,d victory for Gonzales
over the St. John boys, the score of
the previous contest having been 22
to 1 B in favor: of the Ascensiod quin
tette. Gonz!les has defeated all com
ers this season, and is a strong con
tender for st:ate championship honors.
Swat the Spitter.
It's very easy to get rid of tuber
culosis in a few years' time if every
body helps. The most prevalent cause
of a disease is spitting. Watch the
amount of spit ejected on the street.
When dried the winds blow the spittle
dust into the eyes, noses and Wouths
of people, and they wonder how they
"caught consumption." The spitter
is the cause. Swat the spitter.
Plague On Them!
In the weekly report of the United
States Public Health Service issued
Dec. 1 record is made of the finding
of a plague-infected rat in the down
town section of New Orleans on Oct.
14, and another in St. Bernard par
ish on Oct. 25.
Nervous Women.
When the nervousness is caused by
constipation, as is often the case, you
will get quick relief by taking cham
berlain's Tablets. These tablets also
improve the digestion OQbtainable
everywhere.-Adv.
