v ...... .. 1. .
IT METAL PRICES I L . gAV 4vfc"vw'V' 4 P. M. CITY EDITION 1
1 per, $30.00, $31.50 and $32.50. f Snow Tonight or Sunday in Northern
ajl ' - JsiJ - Portion; Colder South Portion. Ill
Z&. ' FEARLESS. 'INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, . M,
J orty-Slxth Year-No. 317. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 23, 1916. Entered a. Second-Clais Matter at the Potofflce, 09den, Utah M
I All Warring Nations Are Bitterly
Opposing Wilson Peace Proposal
I American Note Overshadows
News From the Battle Fronts
And Other Important Affairs
I British, French, Italian, German and Astro-Hungarian Papers Denounce
Lansing Message as "Blunder of War," "Snare of Peace" and "Wil
son's Mistake" WiO Continue War to, Bitter End.
I London, Dec. 23, 1:15 p. m.--The
American note to the belligerents
still is the dominating: feature of the
news in Great Britain today. It even
overshadows dispatches from the bat
tle fronts and discussion of the gov
ernment's prbgram for organizing the
entire country for war purposes.
' Practically all the newspapers con
tinue to devote Reading articles to the
note, while British, French, Italian,
German, Austro-Hungarlan comment
is prominently displayed under such
headlines as "Lansing's voyage blun
der of war," "the snare of peace" and
"Wilson's mistake."
So far as Great Britain Is concerned
the press says that President Wilson
already has been answered by Pre
mier Lloyd-Georgo -when he delivered
in the house of commons on Tuesday
his speech in reply to the German pro
posals, by the address made on
Thursday night by Andrew Bonar
Law, the chancellor of the exchequer
f and finally by the emphatic declara
j tion of the cabinet through the
i king's spee'ch on proroguing parlia
; ment.
' While it is recognized in official
circles that a formal, courteous reply
is due President Wilson, and this it is
' said will be drafted after consulta
tion -with Great Britain's likewise.
Like his uncle, the late Lord Salis
bury, Foreign Secretary Balfour is a
masterly dispatch writer. This -was
displayed in the communications writ
ten by him when he -was first lord of
the admiralty, in refutation of various
German statements.
It
I Allies Answer Nearly Finished.
Paris, Dec. 23. 5:30 a. m. The al
lies' answer to Germany's peace pro
posals is almost finished, according to
the Petit Parisien. The paper says
it is a rather long document and
sets forth clearly "both the griev
ances of the allies and the crushing
responsibilities of the central empires."
: WILSON'S NOTE IS
J! DAY'S SENSATION
1 ! Action of U. S. President by
i No Means Meets Favor of
3 ! Commentators.
i
OUTRAGE TO HONOR
Note Inspired by High Senti
( ments But Time Is Not
i Opportune.
' Paris, Dec. 23, 5:45 a. m. President
Wilson's note and the statement of
Secretary Lansing continues to be the
sensation of the day and take prece-
dence over everything else in the
morning papers. The president's ac
tion by no .means meets with favor
ii ...Vm nrilv
among me commeni.ii.uib, wn
, vary in the manner of expressing their
opinion.
: The principal reporach is in the
. -words of Stephon Pichon, who, writing
f h in the Petit Journal, says:
i "The note makes no distinction be-
i tween the states who provoked the
1 & war nnd those upon whom it was fore
's !' ed. The responsible belligerents, who
i i ever they are, see themselves treated
if! :i in the same manner by Prsidnt Wil
2 'i son. He does not remember either the
J" violation of Belgian neutrality, the
JJ ! crimes of the submarine -warfare or
! any of the monstrous acts which re
'11 ! volted the conscience of his compa
I trlots and that of the civilized world.
I i Germany, her victims, Belginne, faer-
I i. blans or French, it is all the same.
I Outrage to Honor.
I I- "America can appreciate this singu-
I r lnr conception as she pleases. n e
I r should be lacking in the first of our
I ; duties in not holding it up as an out-
I rage to our honor and our dignity.
I " George Clemenccau, former premier,
M in his newspaper L'Homme Enchalne
II "The moral side of the war has es
i caped President Wilson. He puts on
II' the same footing all of the belligerents
LIE without asking for -what reasons eacn
TAW of thpm is fighting. Failing to take
fSm lnl consideration these imponderables
.
he believes himself just -when he
speaks to all in the same terms. He
has not felt that the ends of the war
could not be understood in the same
way by both sides and consequently
it would seem almost blasphemous to
hear jt said that 'the objects seem the
same on both sides.' "
Lincoln's Answer Freely Quoted.
Lincoln's answer to the French and
British offers to mediate between
north and south in 1863 is freely quot
ed and analogies are drawn between
the situations then and now.
"What citizen of the United States
would blame us if we answered Wilson
as Lincoln answered the mediators
then?" says the Echo de Paris.
High Sentiments In Note.
The Matin says:
"The American note is certainly in
spired by high sentiments. It is doubt
ful whether it is opportune. It comes
at a moment -when it is to every in
terest of Germany to stop or slacken
hostilities. It comes after the four
ringing declarations of Sonnino, Po
krovskv, Brland and Lloyd-Georgo."
The opinion of the Petit Parisian is
expressed as follows:
"One may ask with President Wilson
himself whether the moment for such
Intervention was chosen opportunely.
The speeches which were delivered
this week by ministers of the quad
ruple entente have defined the views
of the allies on the problems of peace
and war." tt .
Wilson Influenced by U-Boat Warfare.
The Journal and the Gaulois think
President Wilson was influenced by
thought of intensification of submarine
warfare and consideration of the con
sequences of total interruption of sea
traffic, if the Germans should carry
out the project they are reported to
have decided on and send 125 subma
rines to American waters. The presi
dent mav also have been influenced,
these papers say, by the increase in
the cost of living in the United States.
L.et US uuuaiuci I- -
note cooly." says the Gaulois, and send
him an answer courteous, but firm,
befitting our dignity and our desire to
safeguard the future,"
Note Subject of All Conversation.
In the lobbies of the chamber, Pres
ident Wilson's note was the subject
of all conversations among all the
deputies who, without exception,
agreed in wondering as to what some .
of the sentiments which inspired
President Wilson to take his step but
gave expression unanimously to the
opinion that, in the present state of
affairs his suggestion could have the
result "he expects from it that is to
say the establishment of a lasting
peace.
Objects ot xne war.
The views of the members of the
chamber, as thus given expression,
are in substance as follows:
"The French government knows the
loval friendship of the people of the
United States in general, the two
countries having a t common ideal of
justice and liberty. It is in defense
of this ideal that Franco for nearly
thirty months has gone through a war
which she did everything to avoid, as
it cannot bo denied in their view that
if in 1914, she took up arms, it was
because she was forced to do so to
defend herself against aggression
planned for more than 40 years. Un
til the last moment, in agiueuicui.
with England and Russia, she made
desperate efforts to maintain pea ce.
All tho proposals made with that ob
lect in view were systematically re
lected by the central empires, upon
whom falls. It Is contended, the en
tire responsibility for the war. France
entered the struggle in spite of her
self, animated by no spirit of con
quest and no desire for domination
while her enemies. France considers,
made no secret of their plans for ra
nlno and devastation. The methods
of warfare of the enemies of France,
from which neutrals also have suffer
ed directly or indirectly, are declared
forfeited the resolution or
"ce go to act that a repetition oi
such calamities shall be impossible in
ftituro It Is to insure the incon
esUble enjoyment of her right to live
that France 'is fighting and will con-
"""sott? objects of the war, so far
as France is concerned, may be con
sidered as the deputies view it. to be
SI'S (n the foregoing. They de
clarS tben. that it is only when those
objects ave been adequately guar
nStPPd for which they are ready to
make fresh sacrlfices-that conten
SS con be turned to the constitution
of an ideal Europe and that it is the
I
duty of the nations of the entente to
demand formal guarantees to this end
and the assurance that they will be
respected'
Note Will Force Declaration.
Paris, Dec. 22, 11:45 p. m. The
only reforence to President Wilson's
note at the public sitting of the
chamber of deputies was made by
Deputy Renaudel, who expressed the
belief that it would compel Germany
to tell plainly her war alms. Deputy
Renaudel made his brief reference in
announcing that the Socialist party
would vote for the appropriations for
the first six months of 1917, which
were subsequently passed. He said:
"Today the president of the United
States of America asked the belliger
ents to make known their views as to
the object of war. We do not wish
to misjudge his intention. We only
wish to see this neutrals, guided we
believe, by a concern for a justice and
right, helpln gto obtain more light,
our enemies can no longer continue
to make halting steps. They must
speak out clearly. We do not fear that
they can trouble the minds of the sol
diers of the republic, who, to win
back peace, have covered their coun
try with glory. Let our governments
make known to the whole world that
the allied peoples, always wishful for
nDnnn nnrl np.vpr nfr.ilrl nf Wiir. Sire
ready to accept any solution which,
having Impaired the justice of force,
shall organize the nations for the sal
vation of civilization and the free de
velopment of humanity."
Vienna, Dec. 22, via London, Dec.
23, 4:25 a. m. United States Ambas
sador Penfield will hand Baron Bur
ian this afternoon the note from the
American government to the bellig
erent powers suggesting an exchange
of views as to peace conditions. The
text of the note has not been made
public here.
uu
GERMAN COMMENT
ON WILSON NOTE
United States' Proposal Must
Stand or Fall on Entente
Reply.
THREAT TO GERMANY
President's Step Nothing But
Effort to Save England
From Catastrophe.
Berlin, Friday, Dec. 22, 5 p. m., via
London, Dec. 23, 11:20 a. m. The Ber
lin press receives President Wilson's
note to the belligerent powers with
varying views, scarcely any two papers
looking alike at the proposition. The
views range from the enthusiastic
welcomo accorded the plan by tho
Tageblatt to the unexpectedly cynical
quasi-acquiescence oi me vosmcno
Zeltung, with the middle ground rep
resented by the Lokal Anzelger, which
prefers to await the answer of the en
tente powers to the emperor's note
before deciding for or against it.
Georgo Bernhard, in the Vossische
Zeitung, views President Wilson's pro
posal as actuated partially from Ameri
can selfish motives. America, he said,
finds itself in the position of having
passed the heyday point in its financial
operations with tho entente and now
wants peace and the co-operation of
England in preparing for what it al
ludes to as the "Inevitable Japanese
trouble"
America's Selfish Reasons.
Herr Bernhard refers to Secretary
Lansing's statement regarding Amer
ica being drawn to the vorgo of was
as a distinct Up to Germany, yet he
is convinced that America desires to
avoid such a conflict, primarily for
selfish reasons. The suggestion that
neutrals as well aB combatants parti
cipate In tho peace conference Is en
ergetically and vigorously rejectod by
the newspaper which declares that this
muBt not come to pass in any circum
stances. What may come up between
Germany and her foes is not tho busi
ness of neutrals, it insists, and Ger
many has learned In addition by bitter
experience what she might seek in a
court in which the judges were neu
trals under the pressure of England.
In such. a case the world would be
against her, it adds.
Berlin, Dec. 22, 5:30 p. m., via Lon
don, Dec. 23, 2:20 a. m. The Lokal
Anzeiger, though admitting that
President Wilson's proposal has great
political significance, wonders wheth
er it comes as an aftermath of the
German proposal to the entente, or is
independent of it. The Lokal Anzeiger
declares that Germany and her allies
cannot take a stand until the entente I
answer is received which from ad
vance reports it considers gives no
cause for optimism. On the tenor of
this answer and whether it proves to
be a replica of the speeches of Pre
mier Brland and Llovd-Georee. the
paper thinks the fate of the Wilson
note must stand or fall. The Anzeiger
says that ic has no desire to belittle,
or not to recognize the efforts of the
president, but reiterates that they are
subordinate to the next move of the
entente.
United States Mixing In.
Count von Reventlow, commenting
in the Deutsches Tages Zeitung de
clares that the character of the en
tente Is obvious from the headline
"the; United States are mixing in."
Count Reventlow devotes the greater
part of his editorial to the statement
of Secretary Lansing which ho terms
a threat against Germany that Amer
ica will enter the war on the side of
Germany's opponents should the em
peror, instead of consenting to a con
ference under any circumstances, use
her naval weapons against England
and damage what he terms the Anglo
American cause.
"Wilson's step," says Count von
Reventlow, "is nothing but an effort
to save England from catastrophe."
Rundschau Is Sarcastic.
The Taglische Rundschau says sar
castically that President Wilson well
understood how to control his peace
proclivities and "humanitarian 'fanati
cism," while business was good in
America, but that it was inevitable
that some time-America .should enter
the world war, either as a combatant
or as a would-be peacemaker. The
Rundschau asserts that Mr. Wilson
should remember that America, while
profiting from the war, made its quick
ending impossible by restricting sub
marine warfare.
"President Wilson is actuated,"
says this paper, by vanishing profits
on one hand and the fear of subma
rine warfare on the other hand, He
knows that If tho German peace over
tures were rejected it would spell
sharpened and intensified fighting
with America. The Wilson plan will
meet with more recognition with the
entente than with the Central Pow
ers." Boursen Zeitung Friendly.
The Boursen Zeitung accepts the
Wilson note in a friendly manner but
declares that there must be no confu
sion between the German and Amer
ican proposition, since, it says, the
uermans maue lueir overtures m uiu
consciousness of victory won, while
America makes peace proposals, ac
cording to Secretary Lansing, be
cause she Is on the verge of partici
pation in the war. The paper disa
grees decidedly with President Wil
son's words regarding the war aims
of all the combatants appearing the
same. It reiterates, as do several
other papers, that Germany is fight
ing for self-preservation and not the
protection of small nations. The
Boursen Zeitung compliments Presi
dent Wilson on having not offered
himself as a mediator and expresses
confidence that he will appreciate tho
German standpoint if Germany has to
continue the fight, in case tho enten
te abides "by its determination to an
nihilate Germany."
Kreuz Zeitung Pessimistic.
The Kreuz Zeitung has little confi
dence that President Wilson's step
will lead to anything though it Bays
that he, having suggested a peace con
ference, now has certain moral obli
gations to work for such a meeting.
Tho paper expresses itself as some
what puzzled over the president's mo
tives and inclines to the belief that
America does not want to see Eng
land too much weakened! the war.
It objects strenuously to stating Ger
many's peace terms to the United
States if a conference with tie enten
te, as it regards probable, becomes
Impossible.
Tho Vossischo Zeitung declares al
so that President Wilson cannot de
ceive himself Into thinking that he
can lay down any -precepts for tho
conference. There will be no truce,
it says, but the fighting will con
tinue, with Germany's terms increas
ing in severity and attempts for mili
tary successes.
Wilson's Step Welcome.
"President Wilson's step we wel
come," are the words with which
Theodore Wolff opens his comment In
the Tageblatt. "It is quite regardless
of feeling for, or against President
Wilson, or the desires in some cir
cles for war with America, no respon
sible politician capable of thinking
has tho, right to reject peace propos
als because they come from Washing
ton. Herr Wolff points out that
President Wilson undoubtedly has
many sources of information as to the
feeling towards peace in various war
ring countries and therefore is not
guided by parliamentary speeches de
livered for home and enemy consump
tion. If the real peace conditions of
the entente are actually reflected in
the speeches of M. Pokrovsky, the
Russian foreign minister, Mr. David
Lloyd-George, the British premier, he
asserts, then the path -to peace is not
a smooth one, fonsuch a peace would
be merely a humiliation. President
Wilson, however, he concludes, is ob
viously aiming for a peace that would
be a conciliation and Germany, de
spite what the writer alludes to as
the angry clamor of the greedy, de
Blres an understanding for such a
peace.
In ending his article, Herr Wolff de
clares that whatever may be the out
come of the proposition, the discus
sion of peace has in any event begun
and cannot be pushed.
Will Keep Peace In Foreground.
London, Dec. 23, 9:30 a. m. The
Neus Freie Presse of Vienna, accord
ing to a Router's Amsterdam despatch,
says that President Wilson's note will
nave tne etrect, at any rate, tnat tne
discussion of peaqe will remain for
some time in the foreground. It
adds that the entente will be obliged
to discuss a reasonable basis on
which to end the war and. that tho
desire for peace in the entente coun
tries would be further strengthened.
The Vienna Allegemeine Zeitung
remarks with satisfaction that Aus.
tria-Hungary and her allies consid
ered the supreme moment opportune
to prepare the way for peace nego
tlatlons.
The Neues Weiner Journal eagerly
awaits the attitude of the entente to
ward President Wilson's view, in view
of the recent declaration of the lead-
ing statesmen of the entente that!
interference by neutrals with th ob
ject of bringing about peace would
be scarcely a friendly act.
nn
FRENCH REPULSE
OERMANMCK
Attempt of Enemy to Advance
in Champagne Sector
Proves a Failure.
London, Dec. 23, 11:05 a. m. A Reu
ter dispatch from Melbourne today
says:
"It is stated that the commonwealth
is about to float another war loan of
18,000,000 pounds on terms similar to
those of preivous loans."
German Liner Floated.
London, Dec 23, 8:15 a. m. A
Copenhagen dispatch to Reuter's says
that the North German Lloyd liner
Prinz Frlederlch Wilhelm, which was
stranded near the Danish island of
Samsoe, was floated on Friday eve
ning. The Prinz Friederich Wilhelm was
reported by Berlin, on December 17
to have broken through the British
blockade after putting to sea at Odds
near iiergen. one was reporieu iu
have arrived at Stavanger escorted by
a Zeppelin and two submarines.
On December 21 she was reported
stranded off the Samsoe island.
Shipping Reports Cancelled.
New York, Dec. 23. Tho Associat
ed Press is advised by its London of
fice that all shipping reports, except
announcements of casualties, are dis
continued by an order issued last
night.
Germans Repulsed In Champagne
Paris, Dec. 23, 2 p. ra. The French
official statement on the progress of
hostilities in France, given out this
afternoon, reads:
"In the Champagne sector after a
spirited bombardment a detachment
of the enemy last night endeavored to
approach our lines west of Auberlve
but were repulsed."
Insurance Rate Raised.
London, Dec. 23, 11:55 a. m. The
Daily News says that owing to the
Increased submarine menace, the gov
ernment war risk insurance office has
raised the insurance rate per voyage
for British vessels to forty shillings
per cent.
i
Washington. Dec. 23. Sinking of
the British steamer Larlston was re
ported to the state department today
from London. Neither place, time
nor manner were given.
I oo
CHRISTMAS AT
WHITE; HOUSE
Washington, Dec. 23. President
Wilson's Christmas celebration began
today. Turkoy8 were distributed to
all married White House employes
while bv express and mail gifts for
the president arrived from all partB
of the United States.
In addition to presents sent Mr.
Wilson by personal friends, ho re
ceived remembrances from admirers
unknown to him personally. Thero
waB holy and mistletoe by the barrel
and books of many descriptions.
The president has no engagements
before Tuesday and plans to spend to.
morrow and Mondly quietly with mem
bers of his family. The large Christ
mas tree for tho children at tho
White House was put place today.
TEMPS REPLIES
TO WILSON NOTE
New Crimes Constantly Oc
curing Cannot Be Set Aside
or Denied.
GERMANY IS BLAMED
Berlin Note Onlv a War Man
euver and Not an Act
of Peace.
Paris, Dec. 22, 8:30 p. m. The
Temps referring to President Wil
son's" note, asks:
"Can new crimes such as the Bel-
gian deportations which, at this mo
ment are provoking the indignation of
people in the United States, be set
aside? In a word, can one put in the
same order words which pass and
acts which remain or believe some
thing which at the same time devel
opments deny? Evidently not. As
to the harm caused by the war this
is certain hut it is not in the power
of any belligerent to avoid it' absolute
ly. Furthermore, there are two kinds
of harm. On the one hand there are
the Inestimable consequences of war,
search at sea, blockade and similar
things; on the .other there are assas
sination, violation of the written law,
torpedoing of neutral ships with the
drowning of women and children.
"Can a single act of this latter kind
be imputed to the allies? Everybody
knows there can not. In Germany
these acts are codified in a doctrine.
On land and sea a systematic disre
gard of the rules made by centuries
of civilization is at the basis of the
direction of the war. War is made, as
it is declared, in the sovereign name
of force. Here again Is there any as
similation possible between these two
grouffps- of belligerents?-Evidently
not.
"The United States is suffering
from the war and nobody denies it but
they suffer by the fault of those who
desired and brought on the war. They
can not forget more-over, that in the
present contest Frenchmen, compan
ions in combat for American indepen
dence, defend French Independence.
It is not at a moment when our for
ces and those of our allies, developed
or created during the war, are prom
ising our just revenge that wex can
be asked to sheathe the sword. They
know that the German note, destitute
of substance, lacking strength, is only
a war maneuver and not an act of
peace. They know that the Germans
are offering us a peace trap as two
uoorc own If Ttra o n tr-s r Iran nnil tVAV
can not ask us to be caught therein.
We want a victory which will prevent
a return of aggression and savo us
and neutrals from the horrors of war
and its consequences."
Note Reaches Rome.
Rome, Dec. 23. Via Paris, 11:35
a. m. Thomas Nelson Page, the
American ambassador at Rome, today
handed to Baron Sonnino, the Italian
foreign minister, the note from Presi
dent Wilson 'containing a suggestion
on the subject of a plan of action
concerning the war." (
oo
WEATHER FORECAST
OF COMING WEEK
Washington, Dec. 23. Weather pre
dictions (for the week beginning Sun
day, December 24, issued by the wcath.
er bureau today, are:
West gulf states Moderate temper
atures first part with decidedly colder
weather about Wednesday and cold
weather thereafter to the week's end.
Unsettled with rains probably at tho
beginning and snows Thursday or
Frldaj'.
Plains states and upper and middle
Mississippi valleys: Temperatures
will be below the seasonal normal
during the week with a pronounced
change to colder weather Tuesday and
Wodnesday and colder weather there
after until near the week's end. Snow
is probable at tho beginning and again
Thursday or Friday.
Rocky Mountain and plateau re
gions: Snow is probable in northern
and central and rain in southern parts
at the beginning and again after Wed
nesday. Temperatures will be below
seasonal normal, decidedly so over the
northern parts.
Pacific coast: Unsettled weather
with frequent rains are probable. Tem
peratures will average near the normal.
Bourse Values Fall.
Berlin, Dec. 22, 6:36 p. m Via
London, Dec. 23, 11:15 a. m. Th
Bourse today followed tho example of
the New York stock exchange on the
receipt of the news of President Wil
son's note and "war babies" were af
fected with unaccustumed freedom.
Values fell while the so-called peace
stocks were strengthened all along
the line.
VILLA SOLDIERS
TAKEJORREON
Unconfirmed Reports Sent to t
Washington Fight F
Started Yesterday. , j j
CITY HAS CAPITULATED I
General Salazar Attacking
Chihuahua City and Villa
on Way North.
I
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 23. Uncon
firmed reports that Torreon had been I
captured by Francisco Valla's forces a!
were forwarded to Washington by
government agents early today. Theso .
reports stated that the fighting start- :
ed early yesterday morning and con S
tinued until one o'clock in the after-
noon when the city capitulated. v
A foreign property owner in San- ,
to Rosalia received the first news
of the capture of Santa Rosalia by
the Villa forces on December 12. He J
was natified that 300 Carranza sol- .. j
dlers who had entrained to go to Chi- j
huahua City were captured and prac- I
tically all of them executed, the meB- j
sage stated. Those killed included I
the Carranza colonel in command, it j
was added. No property was de-
stroyed. j
It also was reported that Jose Ynez
Salazar waB attacking Chihuahua City ( j
and that Villa was approaching Jim-
enez on his way north to participate i .
in this attack. As the telegraph lines u
are cut south of Chihuahua City Car- I jj
ranza officials here insist they have ! ,
no news of the fighting at Torreon I $
and deny any fighting at Chihuahua . J I
City. j j
One report had it that Villa forces i j
entered the city at 1 o'clock yester- ! '
day afternoon and now are in com- E i
plete possession of the city and sur- j j ;
rounding territory. Another report , a '
was that Villa's forces are marching g '
on Chihuahua City and that the fight- 8 j
ing had started south of that city. Jj
None of these reportB can be veri- j (
fied from Carranza sources here or in 8 i
Juarez where it was insisted today I j
that nothing had come over the tele- j
graph lines from Chihuahua City re- 1 ;
garding the fight and nothing had I j
been received from Torreon by way of 8
Eagle Pass or Laredo. j
As these reports of the capture of 1 i
Torreon originated from sources jj j
known to be strongly pro-Villa, gov- jj j j
ernment agents and military officers j
here are not accepting them until (jij J
something definite can be obtained ' I
from the south. However, it is ad- aj j
mitted that Villa with his present 1 1
iorce ol fuuu meu.couia capture uor- j j j
reon from the de facto forces without T I s
delay and government officers say it 1 -I
is highly probable that Torreon will 3 J I
be soon in the hands of the Villa l j
forces if it is not now controlled by i ' 3
this faction. jj jj
Capture Not Confirmed. (
Washington, Dec. 23. American
and other foreigners who fled from L j
Torreon a few days ago under the j '
leadership of Thomas O'Hea, British !j
consular representative there, have
reached what is regarded as a zono of ,
safety in Mexico, according to advices u( j j
, today to the state department. They j
left Aguas Calientes yesterday for
San Luis Potosl from where they in- p i
tended to move northward over the j
National railway to the border. No of- i
ficial confirmation of the capture of j
either Torreon or Chihuahua has j
reached tho department, although re- t !
cent information from agents along
the border indicated that Villa was f
moving his forces in a manner to
show his intention of attempting seiz- y.i
uro of Torreon and isolation of Gen- ,'
oral Murguia's forces at Chihuahua. ;
Ambassador Designate Arredoudo ' f
received today a message from Gen
eral Carranza denying a report that A, J
Orizaba and Puebla, south and east of i
Mexico City, had been taken by reb- j!
els. It declared there had been no re- ' j !
cent Zapatista activities near Mexico I
City. JJ!
1 ,
Gonzales to Be Removed. j
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 23. It was re- :
ported here today that Genoral Fran- i
cIsco Gonzales was to be removed to- ' I
day as military commander of tho I I
northern forces and that General i
Murguia's brother would succeed him
in command of the border troops.
Three troops trains are also to be re
ported on tho way from Chihuahua j l,
City to Juarez to strengthen the Juar j J
oz garrison and relieve General Gon- j,
zales troops which will be sent else- 5j
where In the north. ,
Carranza Officials Deny Report. j
Persistent rumors that Torreon has j
been captured by Villa were in cir-
culation here today but Carranza of- !
ficials here and In Juarez Insist that j
nothing has been received from the .
Coahulla capital.
AMERICAN AVIATOR KILLED. J j fl
London, Dec 23, 4:06 a. m. H. R. hi
Delghton Simpson, son of Henry S)'
Simpson of New York, was accident- H
ally killed while flying in England on S
December 19. He was a lieutenant in I fl
the British flying corps. j j fl
