OHIO '.
UNlVEHwii
'J
DFC 28191b
1RRARY
NON-PARTISAN
'fSlSX
t
Property and Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, DF.CEMBER 23, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 36
One Dollar a Year
INDEPENDENT
rTWiBrT'WTmBW IM U . L irrmFT'J Will ll'J VJf5ilMU3llllJ A JLL. Jj ' JJH.
I
Scheid,
Admits He Caused the Slugging of Stephen Cooney, Banner Carrier, With the Assistance
of Two Others. Why Doesn't Friedlander Have Him Arrested So He Could Be Third
Degreed Until He Tells the Names of the Two Men Who Were With Him, the Same as
Was Done To Frank Hammer, the Union Man ?
li) the Kroger injunction suit heard
this week before Judge Stanley W. Mcr
rcll, of the Superior Court, George
Scheid, assistant superintendent of driv
ers at the Kroger plant, amazed a crowd
ed court room by coolly admitting that
he drove up in an auto and after observ
ing a banner carrier at 111!) West Sixth
street, a Kroger plant, ordered two men
that he had brought along for that pur
pose, get out of the machine and "move"
the banner carrier, Stephen Cooney.
When asked what he meant by "moving,"
he franklj admitted bj "busting him in
the jaw." His excuse was that the man
was intoxicated and insulting women
the "insult" consisting of asking the
women not to buy at Kroger's, and ad
dressing them when intoxicated. I
Cooney was sent to the hospital twoi
weeks ago, the victim of an assault bj
unknown pcisons. Schcid's tcstimonj
cleared up the mjstcry to some extent,
but no amount of cross-examination
could make him divulge who the two
men. were that he had with him. He
claimed he did not know their names.
During the trial of the case, Attorney
Albert H. Morrill, ' fighting bitterlv
riithT?Mff3rns Semite, s, at-'
tempted to have the court enjoin the
passing out of green cards, setting forth
that Kroger should not be patronized
"until he pays a living wage." The Peo
ple's Press also came in for a scoring be
cause it announced that "Kroger pajs
his clerks mere pittances." The court
refused to enjoin the circulation of the
green cards or the People's Press.
Morrill also attempted to have the un
ion enjoined as a body. This the court
refused also.
The court also refused to issue an in
junction against that veteran union ad
herent, James Movie. And the court
decided that he would not enjoin any
strikes called by the union among its
members, and refused to enjoin any
strikes threatened if Richter, Clark, or
other teamsters required their cmplojes
to haul Kroger goods.
The court also refused the vigorous
and persistent efforts of Attorneys Rob
ert S. Alcorn and William Thorudike to
secure an injunction against the Kroger
Company and its, cmplojes from slugging
banner carriers. Schcid's evidence clear
ly indicated that at least one such inci
dent had occurred, but no other was
shown.
The court granted the injunction
against W. F. Brandt and some thirty
other teamsters, and ordered that all acts
of violence cease, all false or malicious
statements li banner carriers, or others,
to intending customers, all blocking of
Kroger's wagons, all b'ocking of Kro
ger's doorwajs or vestibules by banner
carriers or others, and all threats of vio
lence, all coarse language, and all in
sults directed to customers or employes
of Kroger be scrupulouslj refrained
from by those enjoined and asked coun
sel for the defendants to use their in
fluence in giving full effect to the court's
order, which was promptly agreed to by
Mr Tliorniljkc and Mr Alcorn,
The court issued its order without
hearing an evidence from the defend
ants, whose counsel did not wish to offer
their defense upon the. application for
a temporary restraining order onlj, pre
ferring to make their defense when the
ease is heard on its merits. I( is said
that ome sensational disclosures will
then he made.
The officers of the union liavc causcn
a cony of the court's decree to be posted
in Teamster's Hall, and strict obedience
to its terms has been enjoined upon all
members of the union.
Now, here is a question for Mr.
Frifdlander, and for his busy police of
ficials : ''.'''
Scheid admitted he caused Cooncj to
be slugged while he was carrjing the
banner.
The banne.ir carriers have, through
their representatives, asked for the same
Kroger's
PATRICK H. McHUGH
For twentj jears Treasurer of Plumbers' Local No. .11), and formerly in
charge of the State-Citj Employment Bureau, has purchased the Auf Wicderschen
Cafe, located at Madison Road and Taj lor avenue,
Brother McHugh is one of the most popular labor leaders in the city, and
has a host of friends who will be pleased to learn of his new location.
This Cafe had been on the we-don't patronize list of the Building Trades
Council, but now that "Pat" has taken charge, union men will take advantage of
the opportunity to drop in and see him when thej arc in Oaklej
Sky Pilots
To Build the Tabernacle on
All Building Laws As to
and the City Officials Let
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order with Presi
dent Jos. A. Cullcn in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
The final rcnort of the Labor Daj
Committee was read and adopted.
The business agent's report was read
and adopted. It was repotted to the
Council that the new Tabernacle now
being constructed on Walnut Hills 's
built without any regard to the building
code or the protection of the public :
novices are doing electrical and plumb
ing work without knowledge of the
trade, simply because thev hae been
talked into working for almost nothing
in the interest of the Lord.
Tf the building inspector's office would
demand that the electrical work be re-
police protection that Kroger's wagons
get an officer stationed with them.
Friedlander has refused the request.
Now, Mr. Friedlander, in the light of
Schcid's testimony, which do jou con
sider most important :
TJic life, limb and personal safely of
llwun ion an h cr cai Hers, or
Kroger's horses, tvagons, mules, trucks,
merchandise and imforle'd sluggers?
Kroger now has jour protection. Why
can't the baiinor .carriers have, it?
Union labor awaits jour decision.
Superintendent of
Use Scabs
Walnut Hills They Ignore
Safety and Fire Prevention
It Go.
constructed it may sae the shack fiom
burning down. If the place was to be
used as a saloon or a cabaret the build
ing 'inspector and the sky pilots would
lie on tlie job to make it conform to the
building codes.
But a tramp preacher comes to town,
hires scab labor, and pajs no attention
to the building laws, and the building
inspector lets it go because it is done
by supposed church people, who aie sim
ply looking for the monej that can be
worked out of an unsuspecting public
And that is all a cabaret is intended
to do
The minutes of the board of business
agents were read and concurred in Ml
trades reported, business fair.
There being no more business, the
Council adjourned to meet next Sunday
night.
stkiki:i:s TO 1110 AIDIOD.
New York, Dec. SI. Ellen Gates Star,
associated with Jane Addams, of Chi
cago, is coming here Monday to or
ganize socictj' women, settlement work
ers, clergjmeu, college professors and
others in a movement in behalf of the
striking clothing workers, it was an
nounced today by Joseph Schlossberg.
general secretary of the Amalgamated
Clothing Workers of America
A B
usiness
W
W. Freeman Tells the Mayor Plainly That There Is No
Contract Between the City and the Gas Co. The City
Administration Is Not Backed By the People They
Represent in the Contract, as Thousands of Citizens
Have Signed Referendum Petitions and May Re
pudiate the Contract Next August, But They Demand
a Sixty Cent Service for a Thirty-five Cent Rate.
W W Freeman, president of the "Would lie Foolish."
Union Gas and Electric Co. at a con- "it would be foolish for the officer:,
Jcrence in the Major's office last Thurs- of the gas companv to promise to fur
daj, stated that if consumers desired an isi, ? service at a loss to the companj
adequate supplj of gas thej would have vc will, howcer, be glad to co-operate
to paj a rate higher than the present u;tn the city officials in trjing to reach
:;.--cent gouge rate. a business basis for bringing about re-
After Major Puchta and C. E. Mar- ijef
tin, councilman of council light commit- "rj0 j0U mean there would have to
tee, had stated the citj's portion during ,e a neN ratc ordinance?" asked Martin
the famine and emphasized the need for "I mean," said Freeman, "that no new
a supply equal to both the domestic and pi,)C i;,les could be afforded by this corn
industrial demands, Freeman reminded ' ,)any 0n z five-jear contract at a 33-cent
the officials there is at present no con- rate or at a contract for any length of
tract between cdtvtjiami.. ?,p;,jtf&Sr
pany for the regulation of price .men puchta said city administrative offi
scrvicc. ' cials lisvc done all in their power, and
"Xo Position To Ih'iiuiiul."
"Until the citj is in a position to
make a contract with the Gas Co it is
in no position to make a demand upon
it," said Freeman.
"The city attempted to make a con
tract and the Gas Co wa willing to
accept it, but the filing of referendum
petitions prevented the contract from go
ing into effect. If the contract were now
.. fHnn tlmt-n ii--iliili1i tt mild lio littln
or no trouble excent tor tlie abnormal
demand on one of two extremclj cold
i
' ' ., , . .!.!..'
"Until there is a contract entered into
. . 1 t
our companj- win iiuikc no ist t.n-n-
diturc ot money tor extensions or im- ,0 thcr to see' whether a satisfactorj
prpvements. and we do not expect to be ; , . ,d bc reacllcd.
rsSmi-n,ak,,1R thcm un lcr . -'-" - ,
After discussing arious wajs for ic- In answer to Freeman s statement that
lieing the situation temporarilj and no demands can be made upon the com
nermancntly, Freeman said a new pipe I panv because it is under no contract,
line, which' would gic adequate supplj Major Puchta suggested that the com
for both domestic and industrial de,- pany was still bound by the general
mauds, could not bc built except at en- , obligations of its franchise,
ormous expenditure. . Freeman replied the franchise did not
"The gas companj," declared Free- ' impose such obligations as were contem-
man, emphatically, "can not undertake
such an expense. It can do nothing be-
'tween now and next August to relievo
the situation (when the referendum will
l,c i,ei,i )
INCREASED MEMBERSHIP
Then Making of Deniaiuls, IMnn or
Women (im-imwit Worker.
First steps toward increasing the mem
bership of Women Garment Worker
Union before demands arc made for an
eight-hour daj and 50 cents an hour
were made last Thursdaj e cuing at a
mass meeting of sccral hundred union
and non-union women garment workers
Officials of the union hae planned to
encourage non-union cmplojes in the
shops to become members of the union
As soon as the membership has increas
ed sufi'icientlj, officials saj the demands
will be presented to the emplojer, and.
if rejected, a strike of garment workers
will be called. This probably will be
done during the middle of next month,
according to the union officers. Tailor
shops next month begin to fill spring
orders.
E. L. Kitchens, member of the execu
tive committee of Ohio Federation of
Labor; William Prout, secretary of Cen
tral Labor Council, and Leo Siegel, busi
ness agent of the Detroit Waiters' Un
ion, addressed the meeting.
Drivers
Talk
it is up to council to enact such legisla
tion as will insure the making of a con
tract under which an adequate supplj'
for both domestic and industrial con
cumers will be guaranteed.
This was interpreted as meaning a
new rate ordinance will be parsed.
Chairman Beigcl of the light commit
tee and William Prout, representing
Central Labor Council on the auxiliary
light committee, will arrange a meeting
t in mm rt- c ntnen n illi nitii-ncniititii rtc
"' " :"" .-.".. ; ;M.. ---.. ""
f prions ciwc organizations to discuss
i the matter
Freeman suggested earlier that until
th(, refcrcmlum elcction city official:, and
thc cas comnanv might endeavor to get
plated in a speci ic contract,
W. Y Cartw right, vice-president of the
, gas companj, said a new pipe line could
, be built within a jear under stress,
i and it would cost about ss.OCO.OOO
Each of the speakers urged the mem
bers toin girls who are not affiliated
into the organization Mrs. Edna Ohn
stem, president of the Laundry Work
ers' Union, asked "if the women were
doing the same work as the men, why
1 should thej not receiv e the amc paj '"
I The officials of the Women Garment
I Workers' Union claim they hae 2,000
I members in addition to several hundred
non-union girls who are in accord with
the movement for shorter hours and
higher wages.
A meeting of members of the union
will bc held Tuesday evening at 122
West Fifth street immediately after
working hours to discuss plans for ob
taining the desired increase. '
Banners are being carried in front of
some of the large tailor shops with the
demands of the union printed on them,
asking the non-unionist to join the union
and better conditions.
Thos. II. Mugiivin, .Ir.
Thos. H. Mugavin, Jr , appeared on
this earth last Thursdaj, and it's pre
dicted that he will ,bc a future advo
cate of union1 'principles. Thos. II., Sr.,
is all swelled up more than pouter
pigeon
