ICTRill PYTRAH BoW attempt to destroy the Patriotic and Liberal week! Prcs by
C f ! , . . 1 1'ostil Rider on Appropriation Bill. The Kaittt Orr Sfjr for
December 15th contain the following Waihinjon diipatch:
The 327 mulo dollar poal approprunon bJl. as aTcrd" on tojjf by the houw rommmrf mains Powmsiirf Grrwnl Burlrs.wi rrc.
mmrnintont tot toirs lor syoi4 tUu mJ nutter, drwrncd to ri ve the poffir rates on (wxUa-'s. The 13 rU be reported immediately.
This U the most deadly plot ever attempted to wrangle the patriotic reform and projrrevive pre- It would
not hurt the dailies, and the high-crn-rd periodicals could survive, but the weekly press of national circulation would
for the most part be stranded. PATRIOTS AWAKE TO A MAN !
tm 'ftMuJif Jf.40" tht ZONE PROVBIOS FOR SECOND CLASS MAIL MATTER
i V- APPRCII RIA1 ION BILI. U rwe yrxa srrun an wrrrni letter mt.rt.ne that he ppt th provision of the
postal bn. l)o bmh these ih,nct M once. Do nm fJ to rrJ the rdnorUI, "The Sew Scheme to Cripple the Prcit," cn Ltt parr.
This Is Number 296
IS. 111
NACE
1H
Aawwra, MImmH
Desar 21, !
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINE: THK DEADLIEST MENACE TO FREE INSTITUTIONS AND LIBERTY!
EMM
H)
01
TODAY
N
am:
MCA AMD EUROPE
3trong Letter From Judge Nations on
tinguished Clergyman, Records
l5
l
f a at a mm
untied states virtually the Only Power With No Ambassador at!,o,u 6f tho American people
ho 7rlV-ri TV... CI trt n s. r im discontinuing L.l alien ian.-e
winiiiv,aiiucj ui iivwiii ruiiubai masses
Papal Authorities at Rome Indignant Because of Immlgra.
tlon BillRome's Defiance of Our Civil Marriage Laws
Protestants In Papal Prisons
HE following vitally important now letter from Judge Cii
bert O. Nations, Vice-President of the Free Press Defense
League and Director of the United Static Capital Bureau of
the league, cannot fail to appeal to our million of thought
ful readers. It boldly emphases certain gravely important
facta brought out in the Lindbergh Resolution, "while low
ing by typical examples how Home is not only iu politic but through her
political machinations she i usurping the functions of the state as an
irresponsible sectarian jailer, while fattening off the public appropria
tions that should go to pay for splendidly equipjxvl state institutions for
, detention and reformation of delinquents.
j - If you do not believe that the pope is a secular sovereign and seek
; to, so far as possible, exercise all the function of a sovereign, ponder
! over that section of this letter entitled "Ambassador to the Pope."
If you do not believe that Koine is persistently striving to become
recognized as tho stato church, read "Home's Political Mac?.'
If you would see the sinister hand Uhind the scenes, stimulating,
fomenting and pushing forward the opposition to the Burnett Immigra
tion Bill, read the section of thi pnjcr where Judge Nations
showi the interest of the Vatican in American politks. Then you will
understand why Home's henchmen in congress are so desperately striving
to further the desires of their sovereign in opposition to the Wet interest
of the popular sovereignty of America.
If you would question that Borne holds our laws iu contempt, read
n .-.. Vf : . t n ... , . .
wiuv m .uiiuujjc im iu mis ingiiiv imporiani paper,
Papal Politics in State and Nation Dr. Stuart,
Experiences With Persecuting Rome in Italy
Catholic church at 10th and 0
streets, tin city, ha recently dis
tanced all ast "rwxirdi. 1 lic'dcarh
of Kmpcror Franz Jocf of the .tus-tro-Ilungarian
cmp.rtf offered a
coiivenieiit preteit for Cardinal
(iibUin to hold a memorial mas
at St. Putrid.' on Wednelav, No
vember 2Dth, which wa attended by
rresident Wilson with hi military
and naval aida in full uniform and
by other high ofliiialj and stable
Hditiciitn.
Tru to the papal custom of in-j-rting
the j-oliiiial and
pntciiMouH of li'uinc into allege!
religious function, the cardinal
condu. tel the memorial service
from his throne which had been
provided for that purHe. He wa
assisted in thi iwnnpou display of
vanity and wqrldlincsa by a larg
circle of priest in gorgeous apparel.
On Thanksgiving Dnr, th card
inal again appeared at St, I'atritl's
and conducted the mas which pa
pists during the last eight year have
sought to clothe with jxd'itical sig
nificance by calling it Tan-Ameri-
ican. I'residont Hooscvelt attendel
1?
at
these maws,
After attending tlie memorial
mas with his reUnue on Vcdn
day, tlie prridetit absented liimself
frvm the ThanLsgivir.g ma4 this
year. But tha sjectacular jr
formancc on Thanksgiving lay wa
4ttendel by virtually tl.e whole
hi-ad and frcut of the executive
branch of the American government
with the single exception tf the
presideut. The judiciary was also
consii uous in that pompous pith
eriug of high jxvldical dipiitaric.
There wem present S-cretary of
State and Mrs. Ijansing, Serelary
of Commerce and Mr. I!cdficl!,
Mr. (Iregnry and Mis Gregory, the
wife and daughter of the attorney
general. Chief J tit i- ard Mr.
W hi'e. .Tutices MiKenra. l.iv. Tit
Eminent Baptist Missionary Gives Vivid Description of Present
Day Persecution of Evangelists by Roman Catholics In
Italy Utterances of Plus X and Benedict XV Not Only In
tolerant and Persecuting In Spirit But Encourage Their
Subjects to Lawlessness and Mobocracy
attended and plaiing tiw n ports
under conspicuou headline.
luring the pat nine vears Be v.
Mgr. William T. l!usclf lia l-. n
the pastor of St. Bat-iik' chnrh. j
The propaganda of which thai
tiiitv 'f hi xIi1lal genius.
ing the administration of I'tejii.l.'nt
Taft. a group of jxditu ian headed
!v I'lulundcr C. Knox n srn tary
of slate, preentel to thi. versatile
and intoieratit lupi-t nu enormous
m
Finally, if you have any interest in preserving intact tho constitu-J one of these Thanksgiving nerform
al provisions for absolute divorce of church and state, seriously peruse j an,T toward tho close of his term
otcstanta in Tapal Prisons," and after that ak yourself if it is not'?f I'rwident Taft and mem-
tional
-Trotcst
i time that you rally to the defense of our imperiled free institutions and
FUNDAMKNTAL LAW, by seeking to arouse your sleeping Protestant
neighbors to a realization of the deadly danger tliat.confronts our liberal
democracy from the most sinister monan hial despotism of tlie old world.
Ambassadors to tho Pops
,Tho present European war has
emphasized to the world anew the
' political status and pretensions, of
1
tha pope. It is alleged in the Lind
j bcrgh Bcsolution now pending in
' congress that the pope holds him
. self out to the world as a civil po
tentate and in that capacity claims
and receives civil allegiance of Bo
man Catholics throughout the
vorld.
Tlie writer announced in his book,
Constitution ' or Pope, published
more than a year ago that one con
clusive evidence of the status of the
pope as a civil potentate is the fact
r tnat many nations maintain am
' baasadors at the Vatican and receive
fi papal ambassadors, known as nun
cios, at their respective capitals,
j While virtually all the Boman
' Catholic powers thus sustain diplo
; matic relations with the pope a. the
sovereign head of the Boman Cath
' olic church, the foremost TrotesUnt
.i.4. V.J 1 ...
I tip such relations till after tlio out
break of the present war.
I .With the manifest purpose to ex-
tend his political and diplomatic
prestige and power by reason of the
t terrible cataclysm that threatened
i the destruction or Luronean civili
, ration. Pone Benedict intimated in
the fall of 1911 that an ambassador
f from the Bgwian empire would be
welcome at the papal court. The
- ar promptly dispatched thither as
ambassador Baron Nelidow, who
-esented his creuentiala and was
rdially received by the pope, Ar-
, lingemcnta were also made where
: bv the . British empire accredited
w rir Henry Howard, former minuter
. to The Hague and Luxemburg, as
ambassador to tho Holy See, and
the pope warmly approved the ae
I lection.
i . As a further offnet to tlie tremen
dous influence of tho A iwtro-Hungarian
empire at tlie Vatican, an
other diplomatic envoy has quite re-
7cently arrived at the Holy See in
the person of Jagora Miura as irn-
Cat! Boston Pilot describes the
rf- a of the Japanese ambaM-'-"ii
the following word:
i lower asaally aeeorded to Am
'.it t tK Vatiraa wer (irmi to
Ttpriai Envoy from tb Far East
k aaca4l the fmA ctalreaae
IraJinff from the Court of St. Damasut
lo tha spwiou 'kmrntino Hall, whoa
walla are .dtIIpJ with rich inarblr of
many colors, the tw; Guirdg here iir
senUHl arm, ami ono of the rontifiral
Private 1'hamberlaina fl'articiDaniiil
ford iiotd him into the throne room I
whre hia holineii had juit taken his
rt ki nnnii IV. .... ...J .1 w.u . L. . I
aiembcr of the l'oiitiSral Court and tlio
eommaailants of the Hwiss Noble and
Palatino Guarda.
The envoy Ujon, standing before the
pontioVal throne, prrsrntol to his holi
ness the aiitog-rai'h letU-r of the emperor,
of which he wa tho bearer, addressing
the pontiff in a few brief urds in Its
French language on behalf and in the
name of the Emitror.
The pontiff, in thanking the enrov,
addressed him in a few kindly word's,
and referred in a special manner to the
emperor; and then be iavited the min
ister to romo with him to his private li
brary where they conversed together
atone. After a time, the minister took
his have of tho pontiff, and returned by
the hulls he had already paswd through,
reeelved again with military honors, de
scending the great stair to tlie apart
ments of his eminence, Cardinal Uas
parri, secretary of state, with whom h
conversed for a considerable time. On
Bis way to the cardinal a apartment he,
and his sorroundlns, were photographed
by Cavahcre Feliei. In the afternoon the
cardinal secretary returned the visit of
the envoy.
Tho United States has becom-
virtually the only great ppwcj that
has no diplomatic representative at
the t Vatican. We haa an envoy at
tho papal court prior to the over-
throw of the pontifical state in 1870
ana the supremeourt of the United
Cj J - 1 - - 1.1 1 ...
caairs ueciarea oniy eight rears
ago that the pope la still an inter
national person. His status as a
civil and political sovereign poten
tate is inus acknowledged by vir
tually all the powers of the earth.
Authorities on international law
declare with one accord that the
character of the nope as a civil po
tentate resta soly upon the fact
that he is the head of the Boman
Catholic church. He is therefore
the civil and political sovereign of
that church, and there la no escape
from the corollanr that all mmbm
of the Boman Catholic church are
hla subjects and, as such, bound to
him by ties of fealty that render
them essentially incapable of loyal
citizenship in any nation.
Soma's Political Masses
As a political asset and advertis
ing medium, St. PatricVi Boman
oer oi his cabinet habitually at
tended them during his four vears
as chief executive. Though Presi
dent Wilson also joined in the St.
Patrick's Thanksgiving service at
th beginning of his oflicial term,
he has later heeded tho growing pro.
ney, Holmes nmr lratili
supreme court with their wivcjnf the doner i:i recognition of tlie
Chief Jtiftl'1 and Mr. Covington.! Thanksgiving masea in which he
Chief Justice and Mrs. Cami M. in induce d tlie head o!ll iul of the
Judge and Mr. Malowney. Judge j American jtinn. to participate. The
and Mr. iWle of the various fcd-Jp,,p ha re.ently mam festal his a it
er I court in the Histrict of Co-1 pnviatioit of the political activity
lumiint, .luoge ljitimer vl the jii- of M. Patricka chunli lv pmtnot-
Busm-11 to the Jlishnpric
of Charlestow n. South Carolina.
AST wwk in nothing the triumph in the federal courts of
Hon. Tho. B. WatKin, the man whom Borne lias for fiva
year Ixm rrieteittly seeking to destroy, we had occasion
to show how the Woman Catholic church after the union of
church and stale had not only become paganized, but that
i'h the trar.sfuruiation of the church of Jesus Christ camo
tlie IXTM-cutm? niiirit of tMirnn Itumn lii,l vu in dirert
church ha Uvn the renter during , c.in.sition to the tea. hiii2 and examnle of thn Kounder of irhristinnitw
thc year i cnlited to the for-, mid contrary to ihe timet irm of the orimitivA ilmnK r ,,. .r
Hlir- j tvlk'0.l eailllle. out of tlin tliniiiiiinilj tint nii.-Vt luivrt 1.n nlJ clinK-.
ing liow in every century since the eleventh, down to and including the '
twentieth century. Borne ha been persecuting and even murdering when
she bus dared lo do so, thoc who criticized her or exposed her immoral
nets and teachings.
ThU ek we rive the testimony of a distinguished American scholar
name Ur.d Chrirtian miniMer, l.'cv. J. P. Stuart, as to the way Borne has in
recent years iccii persecuting the Ilaptists in ltalv
t'f tliejulver vnc engraved with tin
venile court, who is actively urging! jug Mir,
the enactment oi the kidnapping
juvenile court bill, John Burke
tr"asurer of the l nitcd State. Jo-
The truculent politician aivu-
tomol to kneel liefore the throne of
scph E. Bal ph. director of the bu-! Ionian Catholic prelate may now
reau oi priming nnu engraving. ; . cpe tccl to vie with one another
Samuel I Boger. director of tlicjin tribute and Immnge to thi Bo
census bureau and other high t.P.i-min pric4 who ha j.layed the po
rtals, together wiili the diplomaticT,tieal game so long and so aell at
representatives of the various Bo
man Catholic countries.
The Boman Catholic pt'el and
the Bome-scrving daily newspapers
expres the political pride of the Uo
man hierarchy in these St. Patrick's
masses by publishing column of
tho names of the high official who
tlie capital of the nation.
Roma Fighting Immigration Bill
Those who deny that the hand of
tlie pot is busy in American j-ili-tics
would do well to remember tlie
(Continued on Page 3, Column 4)
ROME'S GRIPON AMERICAN CITIES
STARTLING REVEUTIONS THAT WILL ASTOUND SLEEPING AMERICA
Pew Americans have even a faint conception of Rome's grip on our cities.
The sinister political bo5, the corrupt muniiial machine, tho lioimr jxvwer, the democracy
of the underworld and tho I toman Catholic midline have so touched hand that tlm slorv of
Borne in our great cities will STAKTBE AMERICA'S MILLIONS more than did Lincoln
Steffens great papers on "Tho Shame of Our Cities."
Appreciating the fact that no work is more vital to the purity anyj integrity of onr municipal
life or to the larger life of the nation than the fearless unmasking of Home's work behind tho jHiit
ical curtain, Tnr Mcnack lias employed a special eorrcsjmudeiit, a scholarly, cuhi-cicntioiM. re
sponsible journalist to tunko a thorough anJ authoritative investigation of
Room's Sinister Afpeuioa in American Municipalities
Thews vivid pen pictures will show Bomo in Politics; Borne, the Ta j-dodger ; Home's War
on Public Schools, Within and Without tho System ; Lowlcs Interference with News-IValera and
Newsboys Who Sell Literature Which Exposes Home's War on Our Freo Institutions; How Borne
Stifles Freedom of SjhvvIi and Pre; The Boman Boycott and Censorship or tho Present-Day
Inquisition and Index ; How Borne Encourages Mobocracy to Abridge Freedom of Sjoet!i and As
sembly, Her Systematic Defiance of Constitutional Guarantees and the Bulwarks of Free Gov
ernment. , These papers will describe city after city and .fearlessly unmask the deadly fe of liberal d
mocracy in ao convincing a manner as to compel every lover of free institutions and clean gov.
eminent to take notice of tht canctr that it tatikg inlo-tht titaU of our great, rpUnM V.'.
tant dtmocrary.
The Greatest Series of Nmpaper Articles of 1917
This unmasking of Home in our cities will be the most important scries of paper of the year
by far tht mott important. No American who loves hla country can afford to inlet a eiiiglo
one of the series. TnEY WILL BE FULLY ILLUSTRATED.
The aeries will open In our Issue of December 30th or that of January 6th. Now, patriot
in city, town, and country, awake! Join in Mte mightiest campaign of the age. Here is your
chance to awaken your aleeptnjj neighbors to thynipiemc peril of the hour,
Thi Great Anti-Papa! Ronunce for 1917
Another distinctly great and popular feature of Thh Mtmace for 1917 will be the serial
publication beginning in the inue of January 5th of Guy Fitch i'AriW powerful historical antf
f-apal romance, "THE BATTLE-DORS" a story of love and thrilling adventure during tin
days of Luther and the early Hefurmation. Here in tho samu graphic and enthi .llinglv real
istic manner with which Mr. Phelps painted Borne in our country today in "TUB BLACK
PROPHET," he will show tha ancient foo of reason, liberty, and advancing civilization in her
work of combatting human rig)t9. reason, progress and civilization in the momentous, lighU
bearing century of the Protectant Reformation. On tht historic screen m ill It thruu n inch yreal
figurtt 0t Hart in Luther, Henry Ylll, tnii other important characttn in that niiyhty lirth hour
trarn uetttrn cirilitalion tmtrgtd from tht night and tht IhnlUom of Eome.
Every member of the family will be intensely interested in this greatest of the anti-papal
romances of 1917. It has been written expressly for Tub Mekacb and our readers will git the
privilego of enjoying it liefore it appears in bori form. A twenty-five cent forty w.-ek' sub
scription will give you this story which later win cost not leu than $1.95 in tdc firm.
Tub Mekacb for 1917 will be the most important national periodical in America.
It will furnish its subscribers many dollars worth of vital literature 1
PER THAT NO PATRIOT CAN AFFORD TO BE WITHOUT.
who arc sowing tho
in.-piring message oi pure I tintianity in the land ot the Ca-sars.
Roman Catholic Lawlessness in Italy '
Terrible were the persecution of the heretics in the. papal state when
the Holy See had the power to officially punish licrcy, but since Borne
has lern roblied of her tenitwiral power in Italy, it ha been posfible for
Christian misMonnri. s t. teah and preach the gospel in that land with
a freedom only limited bv lawless exhibitions of the ago-long intolerance,
bigotry, and persecution of the papal church which there, a it in all other
lands where Romo has held sway tn the post, litttrly ooe rrcry at'
tempt of 1'rotfstanfn to enjoy that freedom irhirh our eplcndut Protestant
drmorrntic cotistilution hat frctly granted to I.'otne, to preach and track
her theories in our land.
. The tolrnttion granted by 4U government of Italy .is not only bitter
ly resented by the Vatican, but it is enjoyed in the teeth of determined
and jersiteiit opposition on the part of the papal See, which here, as
everywhere, oppose Catholics hearing the other tide or heinj permitted
to li'ten to I'rototant Christian thinker present their views.
In Italy, where the Boman hierarchy has not the power to forbid
freedom of conscience, sjeech, press and as.4tinbly, the resorts to tlie
samo tactics as thov employed by tho Knights of Columbus and other
subject. et the pope in our midst.
Is Borne Today Intolerant?
Since Borne in recent vears has
been industriously engaged through
the American Federation of Cath
olic Societies in emanrulalintj or Ro
manizing the hiitoritt and olhtr
teitbools of our tchoult in order to
male easier tht papal effort to Ro
manize America, and as it is ber
custom to brazenly deny that Home
is a persecuting, bigoted, and intol
erant power the world over, it is to
Imi expected that some persons on
Mr. Cnllahan's Jesuitical so-called
"Religious Prejudice Committee"
will lie prompt to impugn Dr.
Stusrt's story of the present day
persecuting acts of Home in Italy,
or at lcat they will cl.im that these
T IS THE ONE PA-
deeds do not represent the present
day papary , Hence, to completely
answer by anticipation such a claim,
wo wish to call attention to two pa
pal declarations; one, the menage
of the hut pope. Pin X, to a dis
tinguished Spanish Roman religious
j authority, and the other the well
; known utterance of the present
popo, Benedict XV, delivered on
! November ? I, 1015, as here we have
i the last and tl.e present head of the
papal hierarchy, who when they
:v-vk et ca'he-.'ra or a pastors of
tne, Roman flock, speak according
to the ademn declaration of the
lust Human Church Council, a ''iV
(atlihtt and irre'vrmal'le represen
tative! of God on earth."
' Pius X Volcea Hatred of Heretics
i The first rate we lsh to rite as
Illustrative of the spirit of the present-day
papacy at its fountain
hrad, or as voiced by the so-called
Infallible Roman pontiff, comes
from the lait papal sovereign. Pope
Pius X,
Writing in October, 19U, in the
preface to his very scholarly volume,
Matter to His Holiness, Pope Pius
X, tho Rev, William L. Sullivan,
who after receiving the degree of
Licentiate of Theology from the
Catlwdie lniverstty at Washington,
was Professor of Moral Theology
for sis y-ttars in the I'auli.t House
of Studies affiliated with the Cath
olic University, thus called atten
tion to the real spirit and desire of
the present-day papacy as given by
this twentieth century pope who to
all loyal Catholics stands in the
place of (iod himself. (See "Let
ters to His Holiness, Tope Pius X,
pp XXIII XXIV.)
Concerning liberty of conscience, the
popet ,n these latter days, has fslrljr
ttartlnt tbo worlj by the manner lo
which be has shown hi hostility to It. lie
vehemently orutcotfil against the recent
t)'snih law which consulted common do
eenry to the estent cf permitting non
(stbolie churches in Hps in to post notiees
of service, sut to bear tho customary
outward signs of a houae of worship. And
through his secretary of Latin briefs he
ildred to tha monk Lcpicier, author
of "Pe Stabtlttate tt Vroqrc$ Dog
siulis," a commendatory letter which'
says: "Ily this woik you have given
great gratification to the sovereign pon
tiff. Wherefore, the holy father
congratulates you heartily, and praying
that tho Ixxik may be of great profit to
many, lovingly bestow upon joo lae
apotolic bentdictmn." This book which,
lu this twentieth century has rejoiced the
heart of I'iiii ., !et-Utrce (p. 104) that
public heretics deserve not merely to be
rxrorumunicatcd but to le killed ("fJ
rtxon digno tut ji per mortem ro w
mrraafiir") ; that tbo power to murder
heretics belong both to the state and
the church (p. 193) ; that the church hst
the power of putting to death evea re
pentant heretic (p. 11)9); that we
should not shrink front uttering this
teaching out of regard for the sentiment
of the modern age (p. 201); that we
should remember that the church haa
canonised King Ferdinand III of Castile,
sad inserts in the breviary these words
in praise of him: "lit permitted o
Kftftict to dwell kit kingdom, end
uith An or hand brought rood to Ike
tale for thrxr burning" (p. 102)
that the church tolerates heretics now b
rauso it is not prudent to kill th'rn
(p. 208 9), and finally, that tha pope fa
the power tn depose secular rulers who
ubnJon Cathnlicitm, and to bo(r ta
tthjeett of raters from their all
giane (p. 210),
Here Is the endorsement given in
the second decade of the twentieth
ccnturv by the man who to every
loyal Itomnn Catholic speaks with
divine authority ; bestowing his
apostolic benediction upon the present-day
Spanish Roman C&tholio
suthority who has declared that the
Roman church has the power of
putting to death even repentant
heretics, and that heretics deserve
not merely to bo excommunicated
but to bt hilled, and that the church
should not shrink from uttering;
this teaching. This endorsement
surely tends to incite such murders
as that which tho Knights of Co
lumbus perpetrated in Marshall,
