VOL. XX NO. 230.
PARIS AMAZED
AT WILSON NOTE
That and Secretary Lan
sing's Explanation Con
tinue to Be Sensations
PROPOSAL MEETS
WITH NO FAVOR
Meanwhile Allies' Reply to
Central Powers Is Be
ing Completed
Paris, lwc. 2."! President Wilson' not
and Secretary Lansing' tatcraent con
tinue to be "the ensations of the day
here. They take precedence over every
thing els in tlie newspaper. The pres
ident's action by no means meets with fa
in the manner of expressing their opin
vor among the commentator, who vary
only in the manner of expressing their
opinions.
Allies' Reply to Central Powers Nearly
Ready.
Paris, Dec. 23. Petit Parisien says
that the allies' answer to Germany's
peace proposals is almost finished. The
paper declares that it Is a long document
and sets forth clearly both the "griev
ances of the allies and the crushing re
sponsibility of the central empires."
ENGLAND CANNOT YIELD
A Long as Military Aggression Goes Un
checked. Toronto, Ont., lo. 2,1. Declaring he
could not hold himself "in the ranks of
those who say Germany is fighting for
the rights of weaker nations," Sir Robert
Horden, premier of Canada, asserted in
an address here last night that Great
Britain and her dominions "cannot yield
while military aggression goes un
checked." "We have seen rather remarkable state
ments lately," he said. "1 may only al
lude to them as one must use certain re
straint in such matters, but I had
thought that the cause of the war had
been made abundantly clear more than
two vears ago. If I have a correct recol
lection, a distinguished statesman of
Italy said that his country had been in
vited to join Germany and Austria in
making war on Serbia, and she refused
because it was a war of aggression.
"When Austria sent its note to Serbia
and the latter country yielded to all the
demands excepting one, and on this point
offered to submit to the judgment of The
Hague, Austria declared war on Serbia
and, with the sanction of Germany, pre
cipitated a war for which it had long
been preparing. .
"It has been said that the warring na
tions are fighting ior the same object
the protection of weaker nations but
none of you would regard the action of
Germany toward Belgium and Serbia m
that way. When the ultimatum wa
presented to Belgium, Germany gave that
nation the alternative of going to war
with her or with France and all honor to
her for the choice she made.
"When I read of 100,000 Belgians being
torn from homes and forced into worse
than slavery, I can't hold myself in the
ranks of those who say Germany is fight
ing for the rights of the weaker nations.
"Some, publicist has said of late that
the eases are now only of historic signi
ficance. I say that the causes are of
world-wide significance and will continue
to the end of time. We cannot yield
while military aggression goes unchecked
in pursuit of world domination for the
purpose of the war would tie useless un
less the result be an absolute triumph
for the allies.
"We seek peace, but not a mere truce,
of which Germany and Austria will take
advantage to sharpen their swords to re
new the conflict. The message I want to
bring to vou is that the purpose of the
nation will never be fulfilled till every
resource and every power is organized to
bring about a complete realization of the
aims and objects with which Canada en
tered the war."
AGONIZING SCENE
ON CONVICTION
John E. Teiper Collapsed When Found
Guilty of Murder of Hia Mother
, Near Buffalo.
Buffalo, X. V., Dee. 23. John Edward
Taipcr is guilty in the second degree of
the murder of bis mother in the Orchard
Park road on the night of January 30.
That was the verdict of the jury which
reported at 5:10 yesterday afternoon,
after 29 hours of deliberation. Teiper
will probably be sentenced on .Thursday,
Dec. 28. At that time his counsel will
niake application for a new trial.
Tho verdict broke the iron nerve of the
young defendant, who throughout the
long trial had given no sign of emo
tion. In the 20 minute wait between the
announcement that the jury was ready
to report and tho assembling of the
court officers Teiper had shown nerv
oitsnesa and anxiety. He stood y face
the jurymen as they gave their report.
"Gentlemen of the jury," asked the
clerk, "have you agreed upon a verdict!'
"We have," answered the foreman.
"We find John Edward Teiper, tho de
defendant, guilty"
An agonized cry broke the sentence.
It was the wife of the defendant. Teip
er' trong frame seemed to crumple, his
knees sagged. He would have fallen to
ihe floor had h not been caught from
behind by a deputy. Placed in his chair
he sagged forward, great sobs shaking
hi body.
"Oh. my God," he shrieked, as he
struggled to rise, "this is not fair."
Th jury wa polled at the demand
of tho defense. "Do you so find!" each
juror wa a -deed. The eventU mn had
id: "I do," when the roll wa inter
rupted. Teiper was struggling with the
deputies, his fare contorted. He was
crying again: "My God. this isn't hu
r.Bin!" His brother calmed him, and t-o
roll call went on to the last mia
THE
GERMAN ATTACK
EASILY STOPPED
IN CHAMPAGNE
Aftor Spirited Bombardment Detach
ment Endeavored to Approach tho
French Line West of
Aubcrive.
Paris, Deo. 23. Bad weather along the
Macedonian front on Dee. 22 prevented
any military operations, according to of
ficial announcement to-day. Kegarding
hoetilltie In France, the statement
that In the Champagne district, after
spirited bombardment, a detachment of
tho enemy endeavored to approach tho
French line west of Auberive but wero
repulsed wily. Artillery activity was
reported at some other points, but other
wise the night passed quietly.
FIGHT FOR FOOD IN
DRESDEN, GERMANY
0no Hundred Women ar Reported to
Have Been Injured in Riot After
Supply Stores Had Been
Closed.
T.ntuin rw. 23. Food riots occurred
in Dresden on December 17, 18 and 10
when troop were called out to suppress
tlm rmihl resulting from the closing
of several food shops where the supply
wa exhausted, according to Koueruam
dispatches.
The women stoned the shops on Min
day. The next day tho paraders passed
the king's palace, shouting for food. The
disturbances were again renewed, where
unnn a sham fk'ht took place, in which
one hundred women and three policemen
were reported injured.
AUSTRIA GETS NOTE. .
Ambassador Penfield Delivered It to Bar
on Burien To-day.
Vionita TW. 23. The American am
bassador. Penfield, will deliver to Baron
Burien to-day the American note to tne
h,.lliiToriit nufrpestincr an exchange of
views regarding peace. The text of the
note has not been made puunc nere.
U. S. STEEL MADE
A SLIGHT GAIN
Block of 10,000 Shares Offered at Open
ing of New York Stock Mar
ket To-day.
Xew York, Dec. 23. Irregular changes,
mostly fractional, accompanied the
moderate operations in to-day's stock
market opening. United States Steel
was offered in a lot of 10,000 shares at a
slight gain.
WAITSFIELD
G. A. R. May Give Up Organization
Only Six Left Here.
Ainsworth post, ft. A. R., No. 3fi, met
Dee. 19 in Masonic hall for the annual
election of officers. .Five comrades were
present. There are but six living in
Waitsrield, and three or four in adjoin
ing towns, and a few non-resident mem
bers. The question, "Shall we be able to
keep up our organization much longer!"
was discussed, but no definite conclusion
was reached. The following officers were
elected: Commander, Allen E. Mehuron;
vice-commander, Henry N. Bushnell; jun
ior vice-commander, Milo Bncklin; chap
lain, E. A. Fisk; offlccr-of-day, J. W.
Palmer; offieer-of -guard. If. M. Waite;
quartermaster, Z. H. McAllister; ser
geant, Milo Bucklin; delegates to en
campment, .T. W. Talmer and Milo Buck
lin. Community Christmas Tree Church
bells rung from 7:10 to 7:15; tree lighted
at 7:15, instead of 7:30, as previously an
nounced; 7:15 to 7t30, carols sung around
tree: 7:30, adjourn to service at M. K.
church. I Your house lighted till midnight
with at least one lighted window.
Prin. Venerable returned Saturday to
his home in Bennington.
Miss Carrie Hubbard is spending her
vacation at her home in Johnson.
Miss Marjorie Luce returned Friday to
her home in Waterbury.
The high school promenade and box
social in I. O. O. F. hall Thursday night
wa well attended. Proceeds clear, $13.
Mr. and Mrs. John Kingsbury and O. G.
Eaton were in Montpelier Wednesday.
Miss Jane Page is spending several
davs in Mnntnelier.
At the naturalization eourt in Montpe
lier Wednesday, Albert E. Kingsbury ap
plied for his second papers.
Dwight Joslyn returned Thursday from
Mount Ilermon for Christmas.
Genieva LaMotvler returned to-day
from Randolph high school.
William and David Mills are home
from St. Johnsbury for a week's vaca
tion. F.ar'e Jones and Clarence 3!sbee arc
home fro n Cornell . university for the
holiday.
Miss Vene Skmncr is home from her
school in Barrc.
James Moriarty returned Saturday
r.nm wt Trhnhiirr academy.
Mrs. A. W. Bigelow is confined to her
home by the prevailing distemper.
IlllUCVl It "- "
school the past week with a sore foot,
ii aa ina rn nrta nMn niiu'iiL. ii ru i
which has hart to De causienzeu.
Harry McAllister has gone to Burling
ton, where he ha employment.
Church Notices.
Congregational Church William A.Re
mele, pastor. 10:45 a. m., sermon by
pastor; subject, "Chrif.t a World Power."
12 m., Sunday school in all departments.
The 7:30 C. E. meeting will be omitted.
At 7 p. in. the community Christmas tree
carol singers will meet in the vetry.
Thursday next, union prayer meeting at
7:30. Friday, Dec 29, annual meeting
and dinner.
Methodist Episcopal Church I. Mellor,
ptor. 10:45, sermon by pastor; sub
ject, "Comrade Christ." "l2 m., Sunday
chool. 7:30, Epworth league. A spe
cial Christina tory and ong service.
"The Message of tho Carol," a story of
tho European war, h been written by
the pastor, into whk-h haTe been woven
several of the carols sung in England,
which are found in the M. E. hymnal.
The connective reading will be given by
Mi Clara Berry. Monday, Dec 2A. at
7:30, Chrutiuas exercise and Christmas
tire.
BAKEE DAILY TIMES
BAKUK. VKUMONT, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1910.
TORREON SAID
TO HAVE FALLEN
Unconfirmed Reports to
That Effect Submitted
to Washington
VILLA ATTACK WAS .
OVER HALF A DAY
Carranza Garrison Capitu
lated atlO'clock Fri
day Afternoon
hi Paso, Tex., Doe. 23. Unconfirmed
reports that Torreon has been captured
by Villa forces were forwarded to Wash
ington by government agents to-day.
These reports stated that the fighting
darted early yesterday morning and
continued until one o'clock in the after
noon when the city capitulated.
Villa Forces Took Santa Rosalia.
Santa Rosalia, 73 mile southwest of
Chihuahua City, was captured on Decem
ber 12 by Villa forces, according to a
message received to-day by an El Paso
man owning property there. Three hun
dred Carranza soldiers, who. had en
trained there to go to Chityiahua City,
were captured and nearly all, including
the commander, were executed, the mes
sage said.
SHIPPING BOARD NAMED.
William Denman of California Leads List
For Six Years.
Washington, D. C, Dee. 23. President
Wilson yesterday announced the person
nel of the United States shipping board
as follows: William Denman,' San Fran
cisco, Democrat, to serve six years; Ber
nard X. Baker, Baltimore, Democrat, to
serve five years; John A. Donald, Xew
iork. Democrat, to serve tour years;
John Barber White, Kansas City, Mo.,
Republican, to serve three years, and
Theodore Brent, Xew Orleans, Republi
can, to serve two years.
The shippinfe board, authorized tiy tne
last session of Congress, has powers of
investigation, regulation and rate ru
ing over United States marine business.
It is empowered to issue bonds not to
exceed 150,000,000,000 to build, purchase
or lease vessels for a merchant marine.
It is to constitute the head of a corpora
tion which will endure for a period not
to exceed five years after the war.
The salary of the board members is
fixed at $7,500 annually.
It was announced at the White House
that Mr. Denman is a prominent lawyer
of San Francisco, having extensive ex
perience in admiralty cases and deep in
terest in the American merchant marine
question.
Of Mr. Baker, it was said he had had
"wide experience as a ship owner and
operator and is a profound student of
the merchant marine question." For thir
ty years he was president of the Atlantic
Transport line.
Mr. Donald was chosen, it is ststed,
because he has had "a lifelong experience
in the steamship business."
Mr. White is a lumberman with "wide
knowledge of the ocean transportation
problems and long experience as an ex
porter." Mr. Brent has been connected with
transportation problems and "has made
a study of shipping conditions and is
conversant with and in hearty sympathy
with the present law."
HEADS STANDARD OIL CO.
A. C. Bedford Elected President of New
Jersey Concern.
Xew York, Dec. 23. A. C. Bedford was
yesterday elected president of the Stand
ard Oil company of Xew Jersey to suc
ceed the late John D. Archbold. Mr. Bed
ford has for some years been vice-president
and treasurer of the company.
Mr. Bedford has been virtually the
active head of the Standard Oil company
for the last year or two and has been re
garded as the logical successor of Mr.
Archbold, who for some time was only in
nominal charge of the company's man
agement. The new president is a cousin of E. T.
Bedford, one of the early associates of
John D. Rockefeller in the building up of
the old Standard Oil combination.
TRAINS COLLIDE; TWO KILLED.
Seven Others Injured, One Seriously, at
Head-On Crash of Freights.
Winsted, Conn., Dec. 23. Two firemen
were killed and seven other trainmen
were injured, one seriously, in a head-on
collision between a regular eastbound
freight and a double-header westbound
extra lreight on the Central Xew Eng
land railway yesterday at Horseshoe
Bend, about a mile west of Xew Hart
ford. The dead are E. Bennett of Pott
Jervis, X. Y., fireman on the regular,
and William Dingee of Maybrook, X. Y.,
a fireman on the extra.
Of the injured the most seriously hurt
is Harry Bunco of Waterbury, conductor
of the extra.
The accident is said to have been due
to a mistake in order given, which wa
discovered too late to vert the accident.
HARD WICK.
Frank Meigs is home from his work in
Montreal. P. for the Christmas vaca
tion period.
Mi Gertrude Davis left Friday morn
ing for a couple week' vacation with
friends in Lowell. Mass.
Mis Irene Carroll, a student at St.
Mary's college in Burlington, is viitine
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Louis Leb L
Mis Birdean Stevenson of Littleton,
X. H.. is a guest of former schoolmates
in town f.r a couple of weeks.
Dr. O. K. Hanfnrd anj family ate pa-sing
a few Jays in Coventry with relatives.
RESIDENCE BURNED,
KILLING TWO PEOPLE
Two Others Were Injured in Destruction
of Dr. Margaret Brewster's Home
at Grantwood, N. J.
Grantwood, N. J., 1'ec. 23. Two per
denth and two othr
cm were badly injured to-day when the
residence of Dr. .Margaret urewsusr w
destroyed. The dead aret
HAROLD HO WELL.
MARGARET BREWSTER.
Howell wa the brother of Dr. Brew
ster and Margaret Brewster wa her
nine-year-old daughter, mo peopia in
jured wero employes.
SETTLES FOR $166.85.
And Charge Against Edward D. Harnett
Was Dismissed.
Ttr.l.,lx,i- TW 2.1. The ease of the
Singer Sewing Machine company sgainst
vA..rA ii Harnett of Windsor, former
ly an agent of tho company in Brattle
boro, in which embezilement'was charged,
was settled late yesterday anernoon.
Harnett naid $150 and costs of $16.85
and tho charge was dismissed.
A UU . tJ ' w v .. -- -
or Nov. 25. and the case wa continued
Tho respondent wss arrested at v ina
until yesterday after Harnett had opened
...AiUiif.iii 1ir a. aetllcmcnt.
J IIO Company n.iui
one or two machines for which he made
. aMpaina 1 r..int
The company claimea tnsi iin om
no returns, giving a personal receipt
instead of a receipt provided by ti
Mimnanv. and that in other instances
he sold niacnines on letmei, ibtiiuh
(l,rnf,,r advance commissions, one or
more of which were fske tales, the com
pany claimed.
u-t Hunted any wronff Join? and
claimed that two of' the machines were
destroyed by a fire which burned the
building in which he had his headquar
ter i.
WANTED IN VERGENNES.
E. E. Van Ornam Left Several Financial
Matters Unsettled.
Vergennes, Dec. 22. E. E. Van Ornam,
who came to this city some two weeks
ago and rented rooms in Mr. Fred W.
Coe's house and has been engaged in re
chine, watches, clock.
etc., left town suddenly, leaving several
accounts unsettled at the store snout
town and unpaid room rent. He also car
ried away with him two suitcases which
he got at the John J. Barnard store, get
ting permission to take them down to hi
rooms on approval.
A watch valued at $40 which had been
left with him for repairs he sold previous
to leaving the city to W. H. and W. S.
Bristol. The man has two small sons,
even and nine years old. who had, pre
vious to his locating here, been cared for
at the state industrial school, hut since
had been living with him and attending
graded school. They left town with him.
NEW TRIAL IN JANUARY.
Dr. George W. Bolton of West Burke Is
Respondent.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 23,Caledonia
countv court took a recess yej'erday un
til after theiolidays and Judge F. M.
Butler left this afternoon for his home
in Rutland. It has been definitely decid
ed that the malpractice case against Dr.
George W. Bolton of West Burke will be
retired at this term and it was set for
Jan. !l. The jury which heard the case
this week failed to reach a verdict.
MOXTTEUER
Mrs. Gertrude Berry, who is connected
,.iiv. Smith enlloirn at Xorthampton,
tn.. an house mother, and her son, i
James, who is employed in fcastliampton.
Mass., arrived in me cuy ii. evening
to spend a week with relatives.
... C . M It T J 1 C L'i.ln
Dr. and -Mrs. c v.
street went this afternoon to St. Johns
bury to spend Christmas with relatives. nt to gee'that it is in order; peri
Clerk F. S. Piatt of the United States ... f ..fpfv -.tehes should be
court and United States Marshal Car
penter, who were planning to attend the
funeral of Clark C. Fitts at Brattleboro
this afternoon, were unable to leave
Montpelier until late this forenoon, the
southbound train being over nine hours
late.
Henry C. Holmes, owner of the Kn-
dolph inn, is in Randolph investigating
the amount of damage done yesterday
when a boiler exploded in the basement
of the building. The log is expected
to total about $300, which is covered by
insurance.
James Laird, a student at Colgate
university, and Holden Farrar, who is
Hamilton eolWe. arrived in
the city last evening 10 visit incir re
. -a . Jt T 1 I
R . , - ,
the city last evening i- , .
spective parents, Mr. and Mrs. Fred. Ujite and stone industries in this state is
Laird and Mr. and Mrs. Waldo 11. Far- such that I believe future legislation
l.. :n I...... Innnflmt nrnlilema to OTappIC
rar.
Morn U. Aiexanuer weuv mis uuc-
noon to Boston, where ho will spend
Morris L Alexander went this lore
r v.:.... .sh hi. father
111113 "tut " '
-.v.i. ii . n
to Bradford to visit relatives.
i inui. vn j i
versity, arrived last evening from Xew a
Haven, Conn., to pass the holiday vaca- o
Frank Corry, a student at iale uni-
tion with his parents, wr. ana xurs.
Frank M. Corry of Loomis street."
Miss Laura 'Burbank, clerk of the in
dustrial accident board, went this after
noon to St. Johnsbury to spend Christ
mas Wltn ner monicr.
Miss Hilda Sheridan left to-day for
...... v . i . r , -
Haverhill, JN. to spenu a ie uaj
with relatives.
Aahn Mitchell, who ha been employed
in IWtnn for the nast year, arrived in
In. ....1 Mrs .1 R Vitih.dl tt Marvin
tne cuv last rti-iiina i"
street.
.,. niiu ."is. -- - - --
Miss Blsnche Walsh of Maiden. Mass.,
arrived in the city yesterday afternoon
to spend the holidays with friends.
Mr. and Mrs. James Doyle, who have
been residing on the Pacific coast for
the pa't year, arrived in the city yester
day for a visit with relatives. Mrs.
Doyle will be remembered as Miss Emo
Carey.
irey.
Mr. Mark W. Hanna of Xew York
.. .;B;;nn- in the eilr with her I
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Michael O'Grady,
of Barre street.
n. nilitinn nf Louis X. Wood, crit
v in is ,. --
ically ill with pneumonia, was reported,
. - a: 11 I J .
to-day as oCing pracuniiij unrainiicu.
PLAINFIELD.
The Christmas tree which was to have j foreman in a paper mill here, but for
been held Saturday, Doe. 23, at South j the past several year had lived with i ht
school in Tlainfield h been postponed (daughter. Mis Jennie SHipman. in tni
until TiieJv. Dec. 26. if pleant; if'go. He wa representative from Ue-t-not,
it will be held Wednesday. minster in l?tS-10.
SWITCHMEN GET
8-HOUR DAY
Also Pro Rata for Overtime,
According to Federal
Board Decision
FIVE CENTS AN
HOUR INCREASE
The Award Affects Thirteen
' Eastern Railroad
Companies
Vnw Vnrlr Titf 9.1 An eioht-holir day
with triolit. nrn rata overtime nav was
granted the switchmen' union by the
. n - - . , ,
federal arbitration board in a decision
to day in tho switchmen's controversy
with the railroads. The award gives an
increase of five cents an hour for both
iranc vi io .....v. "
the foremen and their helpers
I TL. m 1 ...an a ul- ml an n
Tl u ir,Viiitin nulfpil an advance of
from 10 to 12 cent and time and one
I half for overtime. The award affects
miineen eastern ranruaus.
I ..--? 1 L I. -
It mam nairl liere nn hehnlf of the rail
roads that the switchmen' award was
interpreted by them as not giving an O.
K. to the Adamson law.
While all the six arbitrators signed
tA award, the two renresentatives of the
switchmen, dissented as to the five cent
increases, to the denial of time and one-
half for overtime and to the award giv
ing nvprtim at nro rata. The railroad
representatives dissented to the award
of an eight-hour day.
PROTECT WORKMEN
IN GRANITE PLANTS
State Factory Inspector Calhoun Recom
mends Legislation by the Ver
mont Legislature.
State Factory Inspector Allan Calhoun,
in tiia nemnA hiennixl report for the year
ending August 1, 1918, recommends a
program of legislation covering a variety
nf .,,Kw.fta He wnnM have section 5512
of the public statutes amended so as to
prohibit the use ol Jadders tor nre e-
mmi Whore more than women or
girls or minors are employed, he would
have fire escapes extending irom tne sec
ond floor groundward. Factories, in his
opinion, should have the same sort of
fire escapes as those required ior ecnoois,
theatres and public halls.
"AH doors used by employes ss en
trances to and exits from sny factory,
merean tile antflblishment. mill or work
shop, shall open outward, and be so con
structed as to be easily anu immeuiauiy
opened from within in case of fire or oth
er emergency."
Stairs in lactones, mercantile emu
lishments, mill and workshops should be
provided, he says, with substantial and
proper rails and the tread should pro
vide a safe foothold.
"All hoist ways, hatchways, elevator
openings in factories, mercantile estab
mill nr workshops, should bo
guarded by automatic gates or floor
doors; persons using elevator snouiu
not, for any purpose, be permitted to
wedge or prop gates; unused sides of
shafts should be cased in to a height of
seven feet at least, either with jointed
boards or substsntial wire screening; ca
bio, shives, safety catches and all ele
vator machinery i-heuld tie examined ire
' j. ht 0 and thpn cutting
to ascertain whether the safety
caoheg wiU work or not, instead of
waiU for an accident to prove that
" . , d i6 Tears
of e should be permitted to operate
,-v,T- if anv elevator, machine,
. , or system of wiring,
. or t. thereof, in any fac-
-.ntiie establishment, mill or
wo-kgho are in an unsafe condition or
roper,y guarded where reason-
ble lo guard same such guards should
be improved.
Granite Cutters.
ti. rnu-inir Imnnrtance of the cran-
rill have important problem to grapple
r. of adeouate laws
mi uv mc r,...v . . . .
to protect workmen in these industries
from disease and consumptive trouble
!,.,n; from atone dust. The nistal
lation of modern machinery designed to
remove as tar as possiu.c lHC ......
to workmen is worth
nee as a menace to workmen is worthy
f legislative attention."
ARABIA NEVER WAS
IN ALLIES' SERVICE
Official Report Made By British Govern-
I . .
meat on Ship Sunk By Submarine
Without Warning.
Washington, D. C Dec 23. An official
port from the British government on
ronnrt from the Kritisn fovernmet
I., : . u : L. ,,K.
line nnusn unf-r Aiauw. vuiin. i'? -" "
I marina without TiiriniT in the Mei
marine without waminir in the Mediter
ranean, declare that the Arabia wa not
at that time or at any previou time in
the service of the allies.
Germany claimed in a note to the
American government that the Arabia
was an unarmed auxiliary.
BURIAL IN VERMONT.
1
aihert M. Shinman Died Wednesday in
Chicago.
Bellows Fall, Dec. 23. The funeral of
Albert M. Shipman, who died in Chica
m WfAnmumv. tonk nlace yesterday in
go
1 .
imm.Mi.l hirn-h P.- A. C. Wilson offi
ciating. Burial was in the Episcopal
J churchyard.
1 f- - ma veara wa a
SANTA ARRIVED EARLY
And Pleased Urge Gathering at Presby
terian Church.
All of the kiddies arid most of the
grownup folks at the First Presbyterian
church anticipated the coming of Santa.
Claus last evening, when tho viwtry m
tho church was turned into a veritable
fairyland of Christmas cheer with two
big lir trees and a real Kris Kringle. Be
fore the distribution of gift the young
ster had their innings in an enjoyable.
Yuletide program with a part for every
little member of the Sunday school. 1 lie
vestry wa attractively arranged and the
Christinas spirit wa wholesomely em
phasised by a wealth of evergreen, light
ed candles,' popcorn festoons and the like.
Allen Johnston impersonated the well
known distributor of gifts and his make
up wa well calculated to impress the
voung people with the reality of Santa.
There M as a bag well tilled with candy
and fruit for every last youngnter. Mrs.
David Stuart had charge of the program
and the numbers were put on in the fol
lowing order: Opening song, "Hark, from
Arch and Spire"; recitations, Alexander
Walker, Annie Watt and George Robert
son; song by girls, "Star of Love and
Peace Arise"; recitations, George I-aing,
Thomas Riddle; dialogue, Christina and
Dorothy Leith and Nellie Cowie; song by
school, "Awake, O Silent Bethlehem";
recitations. Violet Milne and Russell
Brechin; dialoguo, Eva Wilson and Mil
dred Angwin; aong by girls, "In Manger
Low"; recitation. Mary Milne; dialogue,
(ieorge McDonald, James Wilkin, Xewell
Angwin; recitations. Ina Freeland. Addie
Smith; song bv boys, "Jack Frost"; reci
tations, Phvlfi Nichols. James Cowie,
Hivllis Craig, Xelson Stuart; song by
school, "Lo, His Star Is Leading"; reci
tations. Arthur Sangster, Jeanme Milne,
Ruth Armstrong; song by primaries,
"Message of Snowflakes"; recitations.
Bernice Thompson; dialogue, Ronald
Gaula and James McLeod; song by
school, "Welcome. Happy Christmas";
recitation. Elizabeth Robertson ; dialogue,
May Rennie and Euphenia Paul; recita
tions, Lester Scott and David Rennie;
closing song, "Scatter Christmas Sun
shine." WEATHER DETERS ALIENS.
Only Nine Out of Large Class Expected
Made Appearance at Graniteville.
So fiercely did the elements war against
the wishes of numerous Barre Town
aliens who desired to present themselves
for citizenship papers at a session of
United States court in Graniteville yes
terday that only nine out of a possible
class of thirty-four appeared before Clerk
F. S. Piatt at Miles' hall. Only those
who live in the immediate vicinity of
the village were able to be present, "as
a high wind and a blinding storm literal
ly blocked most of the avenues leading
to the hall where the clerk and his as
sistants were waiting. First papers were
granted: A pram R. Jarvila, a native of
Finland, Eli . King, a Newfoundlander,
and Timateus Mackila, Finland. All re
side in Graniteville.
Applicants for second papers were:
John Bernard Campbell, Canada; John
Albert Cox, Canada; John H. Coxon,
Canada; Richard John Harris, Canada;
Thomas eorge Harris, Canada; Donald
McUan Murray, Canada, all residing m
Graniteville.
rv.,,-1 -nnvemul at 1 o'clock, but as
the afternoon wore on the weather con
ditions grew wilder, it was evident that
many of the candidates who had filed
their intentions through the intermedi-
f iyu- itanernft. would be unable
to attend. Clerk I'latt, his stenographer.
Miss Mary Donetti, .nr. nanciu.i.
Deputy I'. S. Marshal (ieorge Lackey
returned to Barre in the evening.
NATIVE OF MIDDLESEX.
James M. Quinn Died in Montpelier Af tet
Three Years' Illness.
James M. Quinn, a native of Middle
sex and a resident of that town nearly
ali his life, died at 13 St. Paul street,
Montpelier, last evening at 9:30 o elpck,
after being ill with Bright' disease for
about three vears following a fall sus
tained while' working for the Vermont
Lumber company in Middlesex. He was
born on Sept. 25, 1863,' the son of Timo-
thv and liriuget yuin " . -
wife, who was Mrs. Kathenne tanning;
his mother, who is 04 years of age, and
two brother, John of Pasadena, ( alifor
nia, and Matthew Quinn of Randolph.
t i l. l.M at St.. All-
lUe lunerm m ,. -- -gustine'
church in Montpelier Sunday
i non '..i,.l.. onH interment
atternoon at -----
will be in the Catholic cemetery in Mont
pelier. PRONOUNCED INSANE.
Ora Bishop Was Formerly Well Known
Business Man. s
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 23. Ora Bishop,
70 years old and well known throughout
the state, who was arrested a few weeks
ago when he threatened members of his
family with violence, was given a hear
ing in probate court yesterday. A niim
.r. i,;ni n-ho had examined nun
pronounced the man to be insane. He-
1 ... .1.. -4..41. a&flitm at
will lie taken to me v
Waterbury next Tuesday.
Mr Bishop was formerly a merchant,
having conducted stores at Barnet and
Mclndoes.
,
TALK OFJ1IE TOWX
daughter was born this morning to
Mr. and Mrs. Ray E. Coppins of Montpe
lier. Frank Provost of upper Brook street m
seriously ill with pneumonia. Xursc Mc
(Jraw is" caring for him.
Christmas day the traction company
will run their cars as per usual Sunday
schedule, first car leaving Barre tji:4o
and first car leaving Montpelier at i
Yesterday' tourists. h started out
from the i-itv to make Graniteville or
Websterville found trouble in climbing
the hill bevond Quarry street, there be
ing no less' thsn four touring cars stuck
in the snow along the roadside this
morning. There ere one or two which
were stalled Ute in the afternoon ami
then the others were stalled last even
ing, when the wind commenced to fill
the roads witn snow, making n iii""
ble for the wheels to plow through the
drift that measured from to to three
feet in depth. Thrt cars were hauled
out early thi morning, while the fourth
machine, said to be owned b J.eph
Tm.leil of Websterville. as still there
at thi noon hour to-day.
ritICK, ONE CENT.
TRAINS WERE
HOURS LATE
And Wires Were Tang1 by
the Fierce Bli' i
zard .?
ABOUT F00r FSN0W
FELL DUONG NIGHT
Holiday Traffic in People
and Packages Serious
ly Handicapped
Old Winter took a fling at some of tho
false prophets last night and this morn
ing some of the predictions anent an
open winter with little snow and a mini
mum wind were entombed under drifts
measuring anywhere from three to ten
feet in depth. It wa a bold wind and a
norther when it began to fan the heavy
snow that fell in the afternoon yester
day. After dark it shifted gears and fin
ished the distance on the high speed.
Snow continued to fall and at dawn to
day there was a covering somewhere
around 12 inches through. With Btich
gusto did Boreas sweep around corners
and across flat that it was well nigh im
possible to use the measuring rod on a
segment of snow that hadn't been dis
turbed by the old fellow's spree. To-day
the gale continued to wreak its vengeance
on Christmas mails, passenger trains and
all manner of other utilities. ,
The weather man' forecast mentioned
something about colder and quieter, but
the great silence hadn't arrived early thi
afternoon nor had some of the trains,
which are being delayed by the same
wind that "colder and quieter" are ex
pected to supersede. Fire alarm wires,
electric light wires and telephone line
were indiscriminately whaled and swat
ted for offering even their little resist
ance to the progress of the storm. Early
last evening a power wire sawed its way
through the fire alarm system on Granite
street and at 20 minutes of 7 the big
whistle at the gas plant boomed forth ft
single, solemn note of protest. At tho
fire station the tower bell clanged vocifer
ously for a few moments and there may
have been those who thought the alarms
sounded for a fire. Men from the station
were noon at the scene of trouble and
with them working through the early
part of the night were linemen from "the
local office of the. Consolidated Lighting
Co. The lighting and telephone folk had
repairmen abroad most of the night and
as nianv wire were down in the hinter
lands their work for the day was well
mapped out for them at dawn.
At the office of the Vermont Tel.. -Tel.
Co. as well a at the Consolidated, it
wa said that snow on the wires and the
high wind had sent many wire's to the
ground outside. Travelers toward the
city found hardships ahead of them when
they struck out to-day. A butcher from
Eas't Montpelier told of shoveling his
way through a mile of snowdrifts and
similar tales drifted in from all direc
tions as the forenoon wore on. Two
travelers set out .from Orange heights
last evening, gave up the trip as a hope
lew, task, and waited for the morning.
They got through to-day but not with
out manv attendant difficulties. In some,
sections the snow snd wind blotted out
all traces of the highway and the friend
ly fence posts along the road.
Railroad men were looking for trouble
to-dav and they found it. J. H. L. Carr,
local agent for the Central Vermont road,
.aid that his company, with four new
snowplows and big locomotives added to
the passenger and freight service since
last winter, were in a line way to combat
the elements this winter, although ho
conceded that the new equipment would
be given a thorough test in the present
circumstances. The early morning train
from the south, due around 4 o clock,
limped in at 8 and was later, even, than
the late afternoon and early evening
trains of yesterday. Trainmen were not
guaranteeing the timely arrival of ex
pected passengers or packages and every
body in the vicinity of two stations hat
resigned all hope of seeing any trams
arrive on time to-day or to night.
The usually punctilious Green Moun
tain express from Boston did not disap
point its admirers this morning, a it
was overdue only a few moments. The
crew, however, was willing to admit that
some prettv huge drifts were encountered
and the locomotive and tender bore am
ple evidence of a sturdy conflict with tho
Here in the city the Barre 4. Montpe
lier Traction & Power Co.' intenirban
service was abnormal last night ana
through a part of the forenoon. Ttie
sweeper was sl effectively. Street de
partment employes were abroad early,
but not too early, and many of the side
streets were clogged for hours after day
light Much of the work accomplished
by the plowmen, it may be said, wa un
done by the wind
TALK OF THE TOWN
George Pratt of South Main street
io ovonincr for Xew London, Conn.,
where he will spend the Christmas ne-
ces at the home ot nis parem.,
Mrs. George O. Pratt.
Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Harris of Bidde
ford. Me., arrived in the city this morn
ing and will sjiend several days visit
ing at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick
Brown of Jefferson street.
Harold La Hell, formerly employed as a
clerk in the Smith 4 Cumings meat mar
ket and now of Bristol, Conn., arrived in
the city thi morning and will peni
several days visiting friend in towa.
Headquarters Co, V. N. G.
A physical examination of recruit for
the Headquarter company, Vermont Xa
tional Guard, will be held at the central
lire station in Barre Tuesday evening,
Dee. 26. at 7 o'clock
On Christmas day, Monday. Dec j
2.". there will be mo issue of Th j
Time. j
