First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXTII.
WAILUKU. MAUI, T. II., JULY 21, 1916.
NUMBER 22
r t
Quick Work Is Made
Of PartyPlatform
Local Taxation And Revision Of Land
Laws Two Radical Planks
Suffrage Gets Through
HONOLULU, July 19 Closing Us
work at 11 o'clock last night .the re
publican territorial platform convent
ion adjourned after adopting a plat
form for the next November elections,
and electing a central executive com
mittee to conduct the campaign. This
committee has elected Emil A.
Uerndt, chairman, Harry E. Murray,
vice-chairman; Ci. I. Wilder, treasur
er; and Eli Crawford, secretary. The
personnel of the committee Is as fol
lows: First District Hawaii John T. Moir,
II. S. Uickard, S L Desha.A M Cahrln
ha; executive committee, H S Rick
ard Second District Hawaii II. L. Hol
stein, E. S. Goodhue, E. K. Iona, G. W.
A. Hapai; executive committee, H. L.
Holsteln .
Third District Maui It. A. Drum
mond, Edward Walahole. D. T. Flem
ing, V. A. Clark, H. A. Baldwin, J. W.
Kalua; executive committee, D. T.
Fleming and H. .A. Baldwin.
Fourth District Oahu O. P. Wilder,
E. A. Berndt, 0. A. Long, J. Vasconcel
los, J .Ault, H. E. Murray; executive
committee, H. E. Murray and C. A.
Long .
Fifth District Oahu S. Keliinoi, R.
M. Duncan, W. S. Kaka, William Lane,
Jack Notley, Ell J. Crawford; execu
tive committee Ell J. Crawford and R.
M. Duncan .
Sixth District Kauai A. Menefoglio,
C. H. Spitz, J. M. Kaneakua, C. A.
Rice; executive committee, C. A. Rice,
A Compromise Platform
The platform committee which re
ported a platform that was adopted
without modification was made up of
the following members:
First district H. L. Holstein, Dr. E.
S. Goodhue.
Second district Rev. S. L. Desha,
John T. Moir .
Third district P. J. Goodness,
Judge J. W. Kalua, R. A. Drummond.
H. A. Baldwin.
Fourth district H. E. .Murray, R. C.
Brown, William Thompson .
Fifth district A. D. Cooper, C. N.
N. Arnold, W. C. Achl .
Sixth d'strict C. A. Rice.
The work of the convention was
pushed through in' a hurry. No real
fight developed throughout ,and evk
dence was not wanting that the whole
platform was in the nature of the
new style ready made house all fram
ed at the factory ready to be fitted to
gether by common labor .
National Party Endorsement
After endorsing Hughes for presi
dent .and throwing bouquets at Roose
velt and the national party, the plat
form proceeds to set forth what the
republican party has done In the past
by citing the following accomplish
ments :
Workmens' Compensation Act.
Settlement upon Queen Lilioukalanl.
Public Utilities Act.
Liberal provision for the afflicted at
Molokai.
An advanced educational program.
Many permanent public Improve
ments .
Protection of the public against mis
representation of merchandise, stocks,
and bonds .
Judicial and prison reform.
Regulation of liquor traffic .
Improvement in. sanitation.
Liberal assistance in the anti-tuberculosis
campaign .
Aids to the small fanner through es
tablishment and maintainance of the
Territorial Marketing Division.
National Guard Armory and funds.
Encoragement of American shipping.
Faith In Kuhio
' The platform then "again reaffirms
our faith In our delegate to congress",
and gives him all credit for what the
Islands have received at the hands of
congress.
Home Rule
The policy of the democratic party
in sending carpetbaggers to hold office
in Hawaii Is condemned and a larger
measure of self-government urged up
on the Congress .
Woman Suffrage
The woman suffrage plank of 1912
and 1914 was again thought good en
ough, and it slipped through without
any fuss, although Harry Baldwin of
Maui, led a fight against It in commit
tee. Baldw'n didn't believe women of
the Islands want to vote, or that the
present electorate wants them to have
the ballot. He was voted down. The
Congress is to be urged to give the
legislature the power to grant women
equal suffrage.
Tariff
The tariff plan urges the voters
not to be misled into thinking that
the high prices of sugar of the past
two years is due to anything save the
European war, and points out that
had not the war changed the situ
ation, Hawa'i at iho present time
would be in sorest straits under demo
cratic free sugar.
Chipping
The democratic party Is condemned
for driving shipping from the Pacific,
and urges national laws to encourage
the creation of a merchant niarino.
(Continued on page 6)
Will Be Handsomest
Church In Islands
Architects Arrive To Direct Building
Of New Baldwin Memorial Church
At Paia Gothic Style
C. W. DicVey, formerly of Maui, but
now one of the leading architects of
the Pacific Coast, arrived on Maul last
Friday to loo!: over the site of the
new Baldwin memorial church which
is to take the place of the present
Paia church. With him came Harold
White, an associate architect, who will
remain on Maui during the building
of the church. Mr. Dickey will return
to S.in Francisco next week.
The Baldwin Memorial church
though not to be the largest In the
Islands, will he beyond question one of
the finest, as a whole and in detail. Its
probable cost 's not disclosed; it is not
certain, in fact, that the heirs who are
building It know definitely the figure.
They are sparing no expense, and in
tend it. to be a permanent structure
that will need little or no repair for
generations.
Every bit. of wood employed In the
Inter'or will be oak; the pews, railing,
pulpit and finishing around the pipe
organ will be of oak. The organ, by
the way, is to be constructed in the
East on a special design prepared by
Mr. Dickey. Its pipes will be a dull
gold in color, and the instrument is to
be as modern as genius can make it.
The edifice will be surfaced with
iichen-covered stone, found in the im
mediate vicinity but the rock will be
set against a solid wall of reinforced
concrete and steel, which will be the
real burbling material used. The
church will be fireproof throughout.
It will seat three hundred and fifty
persons in the main auditorium, a hun
dred more In the entrance lobby, and
Sunday school room, and forty-five in
the choir.
The church .designed after the mod
ern English village church Gothic
style will set upon a terrace bordered
by a low stone wall. On three faces of
its low broad tower a big clock with
skeleton dials will mark time.
Tho Ppaulding Construction Com
pany are the builders . Eight to ten
months Is estimated as the time nec
essary to complete the Job.
Would Elect County
Board By Districts
II. A. Baldwin Would Abolish Present
At Large System Maui Opposes
Bringing Mainland Lepers Here
The next legislature will probably
be asked to restore the system of e
tectins supervisors for the county of
Maui by districts instead of at large,
as is now the law. Senator H. A.
Baldwin indicated during the meet
ing of the Maui chamber of commerce
yesterday afternoon that this was his
Idea on the matter. During the last
legislature he fathered a bill by
which vacancies occurring ori the
board would be filled by special elect
ion instead of by appointment, but
the measure was pocket-vetoed, he'
stated, the Governor giving as a rea
son that the expense of special elect
Ions in such instancs would be too
great. With supervisors elected by
districts, tb's objection would be over
come, Mr. Baldwin thought.
It was upon Mr. Baldwin's motion
that a committee of 3 members is to
be appointed to consider matters of
needed legislation against the meet
ing of the next legislature, and the
framing of the two county platforms.
The chamber also voted to ask the
board of supervisors to also appo'nt a
committee or member to act with the
chamber's legislative committee.
Want No Lepers From Mainland
The chamber again went on record
by unanimous vote against the prop
osition of creating on Molokai a nat
ional leprosarium. The chamber took
the matter up a few years ago when
the matter was first proposed, and
there has been absolutely no change
of op'nion since then .
Aiken For Promotion Committee.
The body voted to recommend for
reappointment by the Governor to the
Promotion Committee, Worth O. Aiken
who has represented Maui on that
body during the past year.
Civic Convention Committee
The matter of Maui's representat
ion at the fit h annual civic convent
ion lo be held in Hilo in September
was discussed at some length, and
on motion H. W. Rice, H. B. Pen
hallow, and I. Garcia wore named as a
committer to handle the arrangements
to be made.
The 8 big rcebi of pictures to be
shown at the Wailuku Orpheum to.
n'ght are being shown under the au.s
p:ees of the 1st Battalion, 3rd Infant
ry, N. G. H. The soldier boys have
leased the theater for the night, and
will devote the proceeds to a fund for
buying equipment for a gymnasium.
Oldest Japanese In
Hawaii Is Honored
Kipahulu Patriarch Receives Emper
or's Coronation Cup Tells Roman
tic Story Of Coming To Islands
As tho oldest Japanese living iif
the territory and therefore entitled to
the gift of the Mikado's coronation
cup, Sentaro Ishii, aged 82 years, and
for more than half a century a resi
dent of Maui, vfsited Honolulu last
week and formally took possession
of the royal gift which was awaiting
him at the Japanese consulate. He
lives at Kipahulu.
Ishii came to Hawaii something like
sixty years ago . He left Tokio in a
Spanish sailing vessel, commanded, he
says, by an American captain, but he
had no idea where he was bound for.
When the vessel reached port he got
shore leave, and he overstayed leave.
He forgot the way hack to the ship,
and as he couldn't find anyone to talk
his language was not able to ask the
way and was left behind.
Ishii's story which sounds like a
dream of romance is that he had no
idea what part of the world he was in.
He finally found the landing from
which he was supposed to reach his
shin but the ship was gone . He was
stranded in a country he did not know
and where there were practically no
persons who knew his language. The
port was Lahaina, Maui.
The Japanese, perforce, stayed in
Maui, and soon learned Hawaiian . He
wooed and won a Hawaiian maiden,
and now he is the head of a family
which includes many grandchildren.
Ishii is glad that sixty years ago he
missed the boat on which as an adven
turer he left ToMo for parts unknown.
Ishii has a venerable appearance.
His hair is snowy white and he has a
long gray beard. The "oldest Japan
ese In Hawaii" is apparently a pretty
strong man yet, and seems likely to
outlast many of those who competed
with him for the honors of the cup and
monetary award offered to the oldest
of all Japanese here.
Killed By Auto Truck
When Thrown By Mule
Thrown from a mule" he" was riding
from work, and beneath a heavy auto
truck, Joe Revera, a Spanish boy of
about IS was instantly killed on Wed
nesday evening near Camp 5, on the
Puunene road. The rear wheel of the
truck passed over the unfortunate
youth's head, crushing it like an egg
shell . Fugiwara, the Japanese driver
of the truck Is under arrest. An in
quest will be held in the matter this
afternoon .
According to those who witnessed
the accident, the mule that Revera
was riding became frightened at the
truck .which was coming up behind.
The driver of the machine held to the
extreme left side of the road ,but d'd
not stop. The nervous mule backed in
to the fender of the truck and threw
its rider who had no time to escape be
fore the truck wheel was upon him.
The dead boy worked for the plantat
ion and lived with his parents at Camp
5. The truck was one belonging to
the plantation .
Child Falls Into Ditch
At Paia And Drowns
Georgina Perelra ,a 12 year old Port
uguese girl living at Paia, was drown
ed in the plantation ditch last Monday
afternoon, her body being found by
searchers the following day about 5
miles below. Marks of the child's
hands and feet, where she slipped into
the water, were found, giving mute but
graphic testimony as to how the accid
ent occurred.
The girl had been living for several
years with friends, her mother being
in the insane asylum and her father,
Manuel Perelra, a laborer, being In
Honolulu.
Kahului Railroad Gets
Dredging Contract
The Kahului Railroad company, sole
bidder for the work of dredging Ka
hului Harbor, Maul, was awarded the
contract by the harbor board at a
meeting held in Honolulu Monday.
The railroad company bid thirty cents
a cubic foot for the work.
Some opposition developed to the
scheme for dredg'ng the harbor, when
acting Chairman C.J. McCarthy ob
jected td the Idea on the ground that,
as the wharf at Ka'hului is owned by
the railroad company, that concern
should be called upon to pay the cost
of improving the harbor. John Water-
i bouse of Alexander & Baldwin appear
ed in behalf of the railroad company
and argued that the wharf has never
paid a profit owing to the low rates
imposed by the Territory. .
The board, after some argument,
voted to award the contract to the
railroad, Mr. McCarthy voting against
the plan.
Kahului The Real
Site For Free Port
Chamber ofCommercellcarsThatMaui
Has AH The Advantages In This Re.
spect Favors Larger Harbor Plan
All that has been said in favor of
Honolulu as a free post applies also
to Kahului, only in vastly greater
measure. This was the opinion voic
ed at the meeting of the chamber of
commerce yesterday, at. which time
the body went unanimously on record
as favoring the larger harbor idea in
stead of the smaller one suggested by
some of the army engineers who
have had to do with the surveys for
the west, wing breakwater. The mat
ter came up for general discussion
when several members reported that
Major Raymond, the new army engi
neer officer who is now on Maui look
ing into various projects, had been ask
ing a lot of questions which might or
might, not indicate that he does not
altogether agree with his predecessors
in their opinions as to the need of
the improvement for which Congress
has Just appropriated a quarter of a
million dollars .
Engineer J. C. Foss, Jr., declared
that with the completion of the break
water in question. Kahului harbor will
lack but. a few acres In area of that, of
Honolulu harbor, and that it will be
the only real harbor outside of Hono
lulu. Hilo harbor is not to be com
pared with it, he stated. If there is
anything in the free port idea for the
territory, he declared, Kahului offers
more advantages than does any other
port in the group. It will not only off
er all the safety and docking facilities
of Honolulu .but it wijl have an abun
dance of adjacent land for manufact
uring purposes, which Honolulu does
not have, he contended.
. U
Collins-Whisler Wedding
Is Pretty Affair
Unusually pretty was the wedding
of Miss Alona Eugenia Whisler and
Mr. Thomas Desmond Collins, which
took place at high noon last Saturday
in the Wailuku Union Church In the
P'vsence of a large circle of friends
of the young people. The ceremony
was performed by the Rev. R. B.
Dodge, pastor of the church. Follow
ing this the bride and groom held a
reception in the Sunday school room,
where they were showered with con
gratulations and felicityrt'ons. At a
dainty bridal luncheon at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Dodge (which has also
been the home of tho bride during
her residence in Maui) only a few of
the intimate friends of the bride and
groom were present: Mr. and Mrs. W.
L. West, Rev. and Mrs. R Cra'g Bowd
Ish, Mrs. M. H. Kimball, Miss Dorothy
rtirw.tr nnrl Miss June Mitchell, be
sides the bride and groom and the host
and hostess .
At the ceremony at the church, the
bride was attended by Miss June Mit
chell, ps hridemnid, while W. Leslie
West, uncle of the groom was best
man.
Mr. Collins, who until recently was
assistant bookkeeper of the Wailuku
Sugar Company, left with his bride
from Lahaina on Saturday evening for
Paauilo, Hawaii .where he is now
bead bookkeeper of the Hamakua
Mill Company.
POLICEMAN THREATENED FOR
ROUGH HANDLING OF FILIPINO
Bect'Use noliee officer George Kau
wenaole, of Kahului did not promptly
arrest a young Filipino who threw a
bottle onto the street last Sunday
night .but instead tried to make the
offender pick up the broken glass, and
to that end laid more or less violent
hands upon him, something resem
bling a not took place at Kahului, and
later a crowd of E0 or 60 Filipinos
waited upon Sheriff Crowell with the
demand that the ofllcer be removed
from the force. The sheriff did repri
mand the policeman for not having ar
rested the Filipino at once, . at the
same time explaining to the bottle
breaker th:t he would have been fined
not less than $5 had the charge again
st him been proven. The Filipino was
mollified and shook hands with Kau
wenaole, but the gang of his fellow
countrymen outside were not satisfied
threatening him and calling him a
"missionary". They have circulated a
peti'ion alleging that Filipinos are
mistreated by the police and calling
upon the citizens of Maui to right the
wrongs they complain of.
The address of Miss Harriet Cong
don upon "The Trend Of The Mod
ern Drama", followed by the reading
by Mrs. Helen Mar Linton In illustra
tion of Mb' Condon's outline, from
the American drama, "Kindling", was
gre.vly enjoyed by a critical audience
at the Alexander House, last Friday
evening. The entertainment was giv-
n under mi: vices of the Maui Library
A1'-! eolation. Both Miss C'ongdon and
Mi.-. Li:i!o:i made a strong impression
of unusual ability as exponents of
dramatic art.
TEUTONS LOSE GROUND
EAST AND WEST FRONTS
Report Indicate Fierce Fighting Of Week Has Been
5 Generally In Allies' Favor Carranza Troops Press
Villa Hard Stevedores Strike On Coast Broken
HONOLULU, July 2111. O. Johnson, chemist of the Hawaii ex
periment station will revolutionize culture of pineapples. Method will
open up 10,000 acres of land. By treating plants with spray of iron
deficiencies of manganese soil are rovercotne.
Japanese blood may enler national guard. American youth of
Japanese parentage fearing to join are urged to show patriotism .
Hope vanishes for 5 soldiers driven to sea. Columbia and Nav
ajo give up search. Sharks have prohaMy devoured bodies.
Adjutant General of territory not in national guard. Acting Judge
advocate of the Hawaiian department says war office decision has settled
Ibis point. New defense measuce leaves status alone. Brigadier Gen
eral Johnson accepts interpretation of ruling.
Republican storm seems to center on party control. Plat form and
election of committeemen are primary reason for ctty wrangling. John
Wise shines in role of peace-maker. Charter for Honolulu and tax re
form planks are only platform elements of contention .
LONDON, July 21 Entente allies everywhere beating Teutons in
the west. ' P.ritish drive wedge 1000 yards dee) into German flank. At
Longueval French have taken 5 milk's of first trenches, and 2900 more
prisoners. Brussiloff reinforces with masses of men and munitions, re
sumcs liis terrific pounding on entire Teutonic litie on the east .
WASHINGTON, July 21 Fight on navy bill lost. ' Measure like
ly to lie passed today.
SAN ANTONIO, July 21 Energetic campaign waged by Carran
jdstas satisfies demands of tlie U. S. Pershing may withdraw, says
Funston. Villa breaks through troops closing upon him and strikes for
mountains.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 21 Quick work done on wharves -by
strikers who have returned to work. Shipping matters soon to be
straightened out.
Transport Crook, on way to Alaska, collides with Japanese liner
Anyo Maru.
ALPINE, July 21 Maj. Mathew C. P.utler, 6th Cavalry, slain
while auto riding with Texan's wife. Is said Butler was very attentive
to woman and had been warned a number of times. ....
SAN FRANCISCO, July 21 Rownfeld ,of John Rosenfeld & Son
shoots himself after nervous breakdown.
LONDON, July 21 John Redmond sends warning to Asquith ur
ging haste in difficult Irish question.
LONDON, July 2U British patroling cruisers or the net spread
in North Sea and English Channel trapped one of Germany's newest
and greatest submarines. First official announcement made in house
of commons today by financial secretary McNamara of the capture of a
diver of the U 35 class. Is said vessel will be brought to London soon.
British made gains at Delville woods north of Longueval ,at Baz
entin and ast of Leipsic redoubt . At all these jositions fighting was
bloody.
PARIS, July 20 North trenches of Ilardecourt taken by repeated
charges. Southward 5 miles of German front line trenches captured
between Barleux and Soyecourt. Bombardment continued at Avacourt
and Chateaucourt, on Verdun sector .
BERLIN, July 20 Italian forces swarming into Austrian terrain
near Borcola pass repulsed and shattered when Austrians guarding hills
tolled huge boulders down on them. Machine guns aided the damage.
Repeated French attacks south of Somme repulsed . Intense
French-British artillery activity on both sides of the Somme. Big Ger
man Zeppelin which recently raided Riga was hit by anti-aircraft guns
and wrecked near Tokum says a Russian dispatch.
BALTIMORE, July 20 Submarine is ready to dash for open sea.
Engines tested and found in perfect condition.
SAN FRANCISCO July 201000 striking stevedores returned to
work. Negotiations on new scale of wages are continued . Unionists
at coast porps back on job at new wages. Question of closed shop
waits further discussion.
CHIHUAHUA, July 20 Villa is likely to be captured, says Gen.
Ramos.
HONOLULU, July 20 Circuit court bilk not to be paid by city.
This on opinion from city attorney . New funds are unavailable for
debts. Grand jury Ues among unpaid items . Tax available July 1
must be devoted to expenses of this half of the year .
Conference held with Governor today. Committee will assist in
writing on Kilauea park boundary tangle. ,
HONOLULU, July 20 Chamber of commerce refuses to endorse
wharf. Maritime affairs auxiliary declines to advise ship owners
lo dock at Hilo structure. Question of safety not finally settled. After
discussion matttr is laid over landing report on investigation being
made.
Emil Berndt declares rumor of his resigning as chairman of repub
lican central committee is not true. Progressive faction has not been
jobbed. Readjustment of managing organization only is necessary to
harmonize element.
Search of sea for drifting soldiers brings no reward. Waters are
scoured but no clue obtained. Unless better results are had today, men
will be given up this afternoon as lost.
Oahu experiences sharp advance . Follows announcement of extra
dividends.
Civic convention may come in 1917. Chamber of commerce en
dorses suitable arrangement to secure conference next year.
BALTIMORE, July 20 -Submarine nets menace, and crew of the
IVutchland fears return trip home. Vessel ready at midnight to start
on her way home. Sister ship Bremen may hae been sunk . With
this prospect haunting them, captain and crew ask friends to pray for
them.
WASHINGTON, July 20 Four brigadiers added to forces at
Mexican line. General Morton Dodd Adams and I'lumnur recently
promoted, assigned to border duty. Militiamen discharged to care for
dependents. Thousands of others have applied for discharge on same
grounds.
NEW YORK, July 20 Paralysis liaims victim in 5th Avenue
home. Name of victim not disclosed. 30 deaths and 143 new cades.
(Continued on Page Six.)
.X-
