fc.
l&titntt
SL
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituemnn
EXTRA
VOL. TX-NO. 26G
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 101 G.
CortMOItT, 1010, T 1MB rCBUO LtHOP CO MM NT.
PRICE ONE CENT
KTTrt-JT1
r
to
.
r
'
CHr
I- -
FRENCH BEAT
BACK TEUTON
ONSLAUGHTS
K ; Fierce German Counter-At
tacks Crushed by Foch's
Troops
"NUT CRACKER" EXPANDS
Haig's Men Drive Germans From
Part of FoureaUx
Wood
Tho French troops under General
Foch aro holding fast to tho new posi
tions thoy gained yesterday along a
10-mllo front north and south of tho
Sommo. Repeated German counter
attacks havo been thrown back with
heavy losses to the enemy, Paris re
ports today.
Tho combined Anglo-French offensive
is proceeding methodically towards its
Immediate objectives tho capturo of
Pcronno by tho French, and Bapaumo
by the British. Tho British aro fight
ing to reach the Albert plateau, to tho
crest of which thoy havo been swept by
'their latest gains and which dominates
tho main highway to Bapaume. Tho
French are evidently trying to isolate
Pcronno by attacks to tho north and
south of it.
General Haig's troops continued their
advance today, driving tho Germans out
of Forcaux wood, north of Bazcntin
and Longueval.
Yesterday's gains by tho French as
sault around Pcronno give tho Franco
British forces a perfected link of com
munication in tho railroad from Clery
nearly to Combles, following in a gen
eral way tho lino of tho front. Combles
had been used by tho Germans as a
depot for distributing centro, but to
day, with the town in tho direct zone
of tho French artillery fire and likely
to fall at any moment, tho German
forces havo been compelled to change
their supply base to a point farther
back.
The French mado the greater gain,
for the' British aro meeting' the. sterner
resistance Foch's troops carried tho
German first lino along a six-milo front
south of tho Somme, and won trenches
along a four-milo sector north of tho
river.
Haig's men made further progress in
Dolville Wood and Longueval, the scene
of the heavy German counter-attack,
and then struck northward again, win
ning 1000 yards of trenches nbovo tho
Bazentin-Longueval line.
Tho joint attack emphasizes tho di
lemma of tho German staff. Troops
aro needed to meet it, but they cannot
be drawn from tho east front, for the
Russians are assailing tho Teuton lino
from Riga to the Carpathians without
pause. The shortening of the German
man line probably in tho east seems
certain before long.
The German Crown Prince invented
the nutcracker stylo of attack, where
encircling arms strovo to squeeze out
resistance about a given section, but
it has remained for the Franco-British
command to put this style of of
fensive to another use. Briefly, tho
scheme i3 to advance a wedge tho
fulcrum of the nutcracker and then
push outward two arras from this
wedge. Tho Germans squeezed an
opened nutcracker together; the Allies
are opening a closed nutcracker. Such
a scheme is in operation today in tho
Peronno sector, the British swingjng
forward their arm of the nutcracker
With terrific attack? in Longueval and
Dellville wood, and the French pressing
forward south of Peronne.
french beat back teuton
Counter-attack in region
of soyecourt, paris says
PARIS. July 21.
A terrific German counter-attack,
launched against the French positions
souUpf Soyecourt In the Somme sector,
wa(Sjfpulsed with heavy losses, the French
Walbfflce announced In the official com
munique Issued today.
In the Verdun sector the Germans con
tinued their heavy bombardment of French
positions, the artillery duel belnff extremely
Continued on Fate Four. Column Fire
THE WEATHER
" FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen-
s-i crony uh luiuyii. uiu uuiuuui,- some-
humidity; gentle, westerly winds.
LENGTH OF DAY,
.riles ... 4'48 a.m I flMasU ., . T'rt n m
-!avh rlei..lO.J0 p.m. MoaPjsiuthi 5 IT a.m.
DELAWARE IUVKK TIDE CHANGES.
CHESTNUT STREET.
Low wttr . 1 10 a m. I Low watr.. ta p.m.
HUh water 024 a.m. I Hujn wattr. 7:00 p.mT
TEMtRATDBE AT EACH 110DB.
at oi loi in la i i 3i 3 nr
6l 761 78T7ST78I 78
78' 8
8I
XOST AND FOUND
WATCH Lott. lady's sold watch Hamilton
IUUi iuti iaiu t--. ..u.i.f
Ktlmont 622 W lUward
LOST pEEDS In tb nam of WlllUm H Wcat
4 West, rucuto- for lot No 6) both In Sjcilonl Representatives, left here late yesterday
1 4t Mount MorUh Cyme i.ry Application bai. .. v . , taVh ., .,.,-,, ,.,,,,
jor 101 ftQ ou rn.ua in lot uoh on jainca
(Utu mad for duplLiiio deed. i;turn to
Inward 11 Wcat nortnweat corner 17ih and
&. ! as! VeiuU Alt a ?n 1
i8s30HWoHKW,A'
LIEUT. JOHN EWING
Acting captain of the police vico
squad, which has orders for a
thorough "clean up."
OLIVER ASSAILED
ON OPPOSITION TO
U. S. ARMOR PLANT
Accused of Voting Money to
Himself in Guarding Pri
vate Concerns
NAVAL BILL DEBATED
Bv a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, July 21. Senator Oli
ver, of Pennsylvania, and Senator Heed, of
Missouri, were called to order In tho Sen
ate today by Vico President Marshall be
cause of engaging In personalities. The
Interchange occurred during the debate on
tho naval bill.
Senator Reed, In criticising Senator Oliver
because he has advocated continuation of
tho present system of awarding armor-plate
contracts, referred to tho tatter's holdings
of United States Steal Corporation stock.
'Tho Senator has admitted," Senator Reed
said, "that ho owned Btock In n parent com
pany to an armor-plato concern, and that,
therefore, some of these profits will emit a
musical Jingle from tho pockets of the Sen
ator from Pennsylvania.
"I say to tho gentleman, who. Is a .stock
holder, nnd who has admitted he Is a stock
holder In Institutions that are' engaged In
making armor plate, who stands here on
the floor of the Senate advocating tho cause
of those things In which he Is financially
Interested, and who, If he were the judgo
of a court, would be barred from sitting In
a case Involving the question of dollars and
cents to the concern In which he Is Inter
ested, but who. nevertheless, haB the cold
effrontery to stand here advocating and vot
ing for thnt which will put money in his
pockets, I say that the entire document Is
false and misleading; that Is, It Is under
taken In this document to demonstrate that
tho Bethlehem Steel Company has dealt fair
ly with the United States. The facts aro
otherwise "
"That Is the second time," said Senator
Continued on I'nce Tho, Column Tuo
BOSTON'S POISONING
TRIANGLE TO DEVELOP
SENSATION, IS BELIEF
Discovery That Mercury Killed
Woman Physician Whose Fi
ance Shot Fascinator May
' Lead to New Theory
EXAMINE WOMAN'S ROOM
BOSTON, Mass., Jujy 21 Police activ
ity In the three-cornered mystery in which
Dr. Cella Adams Is dead, Dr Wilfred Har
ris Is In the City Hospital dangerously
wounded, and Dr. Eldrldge Atwood held for
attempted murder Is expected to be diverted
Into new channels today. Following the
discovery of mercury ns the Instrument
that caused the death of Doctor Adams.
Medical Examiner McOrath and Detective
Sergeant Rutherford made an examination
of the dead woman's ofllce. It Is their find
ings that are expected to be given the police
today and 'which. It Is believed, may make
the case far more sensational than it
already has proved.
"Bloodless" surgery la expected to play
an Important part when, the mystery Is un
raveled, Signs of extreme suffering nnd
Indications that In the agonies that later
caused her death the oung woman at.
tempted to bummon help over the phone
were found in Doctor Adams" ofllce.
Roctor Harris' condition Is Improving, It
was satd In the City Hospital today, but the
physicians are puzzled over the abdominal
wound. The other two Inflicted by Atwood
are showing signs of Improvement.
The discovery that mercury caused the
death of Doctor Adams and that hotV she
received It has not been determined, recalls
the case of Avis Llnnel. It was the same
form of mercury of which the Rev. Clarence
Rlcheson was found guilty ot administer
ing to the girl he wionged. The fact, how
ever, that the victim was a. ph)s!clan as
well as an osteopath deepens the work ahead
of the police.
Officer Sent to Arrest Marshall
WASHINGTON. July 21. Robert B.
Gordon, sergeant-at-arms of the House of
(or New York to take into custody District
Attorney H Snowden Marshall, accused of
contempt of the House.
'LIZARDS MUST GO,'
SAYS EWING AS HE
STARTS VICE WAR
Hands Off, Acting Captain
Warns Politicians in Ten
derloin Crusade
'GIVE ME CHANCE,' HE SAYS
Gambling Must Stop, Police Offi
cial Warns Jail Terms
Urged for Offenders
Ward leaders and politicians will not be
recognized by acting Captain John Ewlng,
the new czar of the Tenderloin. He said
today that he nnd tho 700 policemen under
his command were determined to drive the
"lizards of Philadelphia" from this city.
Should persecution follow faithful perform
ance of duty, Ewlng said he would depend
upon the moral support of the public.
Ewlng, who has been a policeman for 28
years, said ho was willing to take a chance
a chanco which has placed many police
commanders In former years In disfavor
with administrations. And every one of the
700 uniformed men who aro attached to the
nine police districts which aro In the 2d
division, according to Ewlng, are ready to
suffer the consequences.
Tho statement of Ewlng followed the an
nouncement that District Attorney Rotan
would return from Now England next Mon
day to tako charge of tho Grand Jury In
quiry Into vico condltluns. Mr. Rdtnn has
been requested to come hero by Charles O.
Morshon, foreman of tho Grand Jury. Mr.
Morshon desires to consult with tho District
Attorney regarding certain phases of tho
Investigation. Assistant District Attorney
Taulane, It Is believed, will be assigned to
aid tho grand Jurors.
NOT AFRAID OF PRESSURE.
Whether tho Grand Jury continues with
Its Investigation next Monday or not, Acting
Captain Ewlng said today that raids would
continue on every gambling houso, horse
race poolroom and disorderly house. He
made It plain that these raids would take
place no matter what sort of pressure from
a political vlowpolnt Is brought to bear.
The support of the Judges who sit In tho
courts nnd listen to testimony In gambling
and other vice cases Is wanted by Ewlng.
Mere fines for persons found guilty la not
sufficient, according to. Ewlng. He will In
sist upon the full penalty. Fines, no mat
ter how large, will not stamp out vice In this
city, Ewlng contends. Only a term In
prison will, he says.
If a convicted proprietor of a gambling
house or a disorderly house appear for sen
tence with letters of recommendation relat
ing to his past career from ward leaders,
prominent politicians and division workers,
Ewlng said he would have police olllcers In
court to combat them.
"Let gamblers come to court with those
lovely testimonials Just let them come
and I will have men men thero with the
records of tho convicted men," ho said.
"My records of theso men will bo faqts
written In black and white. Then If the
courts decided to show clemency to these
Continued on Fuze Tiro, Column One.
INSURANCE MEN HERE
NOT TEMPTED BY RISK
OFDEUTSCHLANDJSGOLD
Representatiye of German Mer
chant Submarine's Owners
Said to Be Here in
Search of Policy
TEN PER CENT. OFFERED
Officials of several Philadelphia Insurance
companies carrying marine departments
said today thnt they would not Insure gold
coin amounting to more than $100,000.
which probably will be taken back to Ger
many on the submarine Deutschland Paul
U Hllken, of Baltimore, American repre
sentative of the Ocean Navigation Company,
of Bremen, owner of the submarine now a
Baltimore, Is reported to be In Philadel
phia endeavoring to get Inaurance on tha
gold, and he Is offering as much as 10 per
cent.
But no encouragement Is held oat by
marine underwriters, who are fearful of the
risk Involved. At the offices of the Insur
ance Compapy of North America It was
dec;aed that no premium could tempt It to
write a policy, "because there Is no telling
what may happen." At the Curtln &. Biokle
offices, 4th and Walnut streets, it was said
that In no circumstances would the reported
offer of Hllken. 10 per cent., be accepted.
Twenty-six per cent., "just offhand," was
the minimum put forward by this company.
For .some time, according to an official of
the company, there has been discussion con
cerning the question of returning gold to
the Central Powers, and various sums have
been mentioned. It Is still possible that no
gold whatever will be taken back on the
Deutschland. but In the event that none Is
returned on that submarine, efforts will be
made to have'the Bremen, soon scheduled
to arrive heretransport the gold across the
Continued on Paie Four. Column Tw
Taxi in Collision at Broad and Chestnut
Traffic at Broad and Chestnut streets
was tied up for a quarter of an hour this
noon, when an eastbound Chestnut street car
collided with a Quaker City taxlcab driven
by Harry C nitchle. 407 Catharine street
Neither the driver nor the occupant of
the taxi, H W Blddle. was Injured Re
serve Officer Baker placed Ritchie under
arrest when It was found he was driving
without a license Mr Blddle Is a member
of Thomas A Blddle & Co., varulshers, 424
Chestnut street.
r
MORRIS LUSKIN
Philadelphia boy who misrepre
sented his age to "servo his
adopted country." Ho is a Russian
nnd the son of n Russian soldier.
He has been discharged from Com-
Sany M, 3d Regiment, at El Paso,
ccauso he is under 18. Ho lives at
828 Moore street.
YOUTHFUL GUARD
CONCEALED AGE;
GETSDISCHARGE
Patriotism Made Philadel-
phian Deceive for Chance
to Serve Country
BUT ORDERS ARE ORDERS
The 8 o'clock a.
El Paso was 74.
m. temperature at
By CARL L. ZEISBERG
Evening Ledotr Staff Correspondent
EL PASO, Tex, July 31. Tho first dis
charge of an enlisted man In tho Pennsyl
vania division waB Issued today, when Prl
vato Morris Luskin, of 828 Moore street,
Philadelphia, was dropped from the rolls of
Company M, 3d Regiment.
That Is a baro sta'tcment of fact Behind
it lies pathos, tragedy, youthful ambition
shattered. Impulsive patriotism denied. Mor
ris Luskin had no business enlisting. He
Is under Age and ho was unable to get his
parents' signature of consent.
Horror came Into his eyes when his com
pany commander. Captain W. H. Fantom,
thl3 morning told him In a kindly wny, as a
father would speak to his erring son, that
the War Department, through General
Funston, had ordered his dlschargo because
of a false statement of age when he en
listed. " Momentarily he would not believe
It. Then the situation dawned upon him.
Some ono at home his anxious mother, per
haps had notified and proved to the War
Department that he was not 18 years old,
the minimum ttgo required. He bowed his
head, then raised It.
"Captain, I want to fight for my country,"
Continued on Pare To, Column Mi
TO ASK PROBE OF BAD
FOOD AND TROOP TRAINS,
DECLARATION OF MOORE
Complaints From Guardsmen, if
Found True, Will Be Pat
Before Congress, Phila
delphian Says ' .
SEEK FACTS FROM LEADER
Reports that guardsmen who have been
sent to the border receive Insufficient food
and water and are forced to endure other
hardships have been received by Repre
sentative J. Hampton Moore, according to
a dispatch from Washington this afternoon.
Should this Information prove- true he will
More than a week ago the House of Rep
resentatives passed a resolution. Introduced
by Mr. Moore, for an official statement from
the War Department as to the justice of
claims that guardsmen were sent to the
border with Insufficient food and water sup
plies; that they were forced th travel In
day coaches Instead of tourist sleepers, and
that some of the cars had no lights except
tallow dips. The War Department has
promised to supply the Information, but so
far ha made no official report to Congress.
"Until that Is received'," said Representa
tive Moore today, "I do not want to say
what steps I thai take ; but If the Informa
tion received U not satisfactory, in tfce light
of reports received from guardsmen and
their relatives in Pennsylvania, other steps
wll be taken,
"It seems that the War Department had
adopted the policy of giving out the Infor
mation called for by the House of Repre
sentatives piecemeal at the department.
Far several days, the papers have been
printing extracts from official reports of
departmental commanders To prove that
the men now In camp are being properly
sheltered and fed.
"Since the House passed my resolution,
Major General Tasker Bliss, assistant chief
of staff of the army, has been sent to the
border to make a personal investigation.
He has reported that the men are being
properly cared for. All my reports from
relatives of guardsmen, are to tfco effect
the water supply la particularly bad. Now
It Is reported that the Pennsylvania, troops
are. to be moved from Camp Pershing and
CoatUf4 m Vtfp jr.fe i
iliiinn i'ur
QUICK
BREMEN REPORTED "SIGHTED" AGAIN
NEW YORK, July 21. The German submiulne Bremen was
"sighted" again today, this time off New Bedford, Mass. A report
circulated here was to tho effect thnt word had been received or a
representative of a German shipping firm seeing n, "low craft with
apparently o'hly her conning tower exposed' about five miles off the
Massachusetts coast.
VILLA READY TO ATTACK T0RRE0N
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 21. "Pnncho" Villa, with 1800 men,
was ready yesterday to attack Torreon, accoiding to a vvlieless tepoit
received by General Funston from Gencial Pershing today. Villa i3
still badly wounded and walking with a ciutch The bullet which
entered his right leg broke a bone nnd the wound is still open.
Pershing reported that Villa was victorious in the Coinlitns battlo
June 30. There were 300 Carranzfsta casualties in this affair. Villa
was also.succEssful in the Parial battle on July 14, Persuing stated.
CANADA'S MILITIA HEAD EXONERATED IN FUSE SCANDAL
OTTAWA, July 21. Sir Sam Hughes, Canada's mllttta head, was ekonoratcd,
Colonel David Carneslo mildly criticised nnd Coonol J. Wesllo Allison bitterly
assailed in tho report of tho special Government commission which investigated
tho fuso contracts scandal mado public hero today. Hughes nnd other members of
tho Canadian Shell Committee wero held guiltless of any Improper motives In award
ing contracts to tho American Ammunition nnd International Fuse Company.
ITALIANS BEAT BACK ATTACKS IN POSINA VALLEY
ROME, July 21. Porslstcnt attacks by tho Teutonic forces In the upper Poslna
sector wcro all repulsed by the Italian troops, tho War Ofllce officially announced
today. The Italians also sained further successes by capturing enemy trenches on
Mount Mnlo.
"REDDY JAKE" SURRENDERS IN TENDERLOIN HOUSE CASE
"Roddy Jake" Mollnkoff, Tenderloin character, returned homo from tho eea
shoro this morning, heard that the police had a warrant for hl3 arrest during tho
raid last Saturday on a charge of keeping a disorderly house and surrendered at
tho Detective Bureau. The warrant was sworn out by S. F. Brow nicy, an agent of
the Law and Order Society. "This Is a He," r,ald "Reddy Jake," "I havo been living
straight, but If you'vo got anything on mo I'm willing to stand for It."
SECRETARY WILSON HEARS OF GARMENT SETTLEMENT
WASHINGTON, July 21. Secretary of Labor Wilson at tho Cabinet meeting
today stated that Information has reached him to tho effect that employes and
employers involved In tho big garment workers' strike In Now York "aro ncartng
an adjustment of their difficulties."
BULGARIA REPORTED CONSIDERING PEACE
LONDON, July 21. A wireless dlipatch from Rome transmits Soda advices
saying that Bulgaria is seriously considering making peace and that Premier Rado
nlavoff has summoned the Sobranjo to discuss tho situation.
AKED AND PROF. BALCH READY WITH PEACE REPORT
DETROIT, Mich., July 21. Dr. Charles F. Aked and Prof. Emily Balch were
In Detroit today to make a report to Henry Ford on their work as members of his
European peaco commission. Mr. Ford, who was out of the city today, will meet
the delegates Tuesday. Doctor Aked seemed pleased with his reception at the hands
of tho Germans, but said England, his nntlvo country, would not let him land there.
TWO MORE BRITISH STEAMSHIPS SUNK
LONDON, July 21. The British steamships Yser and Grangemouth have been
sunk. (Lloyd's does not list any vessel named Yser. The Grangemouth Is given
as a steel vessel of 1660 tons owned by the Rnnklne Line, of Glasgow.)
DELAYED MAILS ARRIVE FROM FLOOD-HIT SOUTH
Delayed malls from the flooded sections of western and fcouthern North Caro
lina and from northern South Carolina aro being received at the Philadelphia post
ofuco today, according to Superintendent Thomas P. Johnson. Mall service from
these sections has been delayed since July 16.
AUSTRIANS REPORT SUCCESS IN VOLHYNIA
VIENNA, July 21. Tho Austro-Hungarlan War Ofllce gave out the following
statement on military operations under date of July 20: "In Volhynla the Germans
pushed tho enemy back west of tho lowlands and north of Zvlnlaczo. In tho Italian
theatre of war the situation Is generally quiet."
AMERICANSVITH FRENCH RED CROSS DECORATED
PARIS, July 21. Two Americans Joseph Wendell, nephew of a professor of
that 4ame at Harvard, and Henry Holllngshead, of New Jersey members of tho
Amer'can sanitary unit, were today decorated with the Croix do Guerre at the
Invnlldes. Both wcro recently wounded at the Verdun front.
WORKMEN'S BOARD TO CLASSIFY OPERATIONS
The difference between "major" and "minor" surgical operations under the
workmen's compensation act will be taken up by the board at Its meeting In
Harrlsburg next Wednesday. The opinions of eminent surgeons have been sought
and Dr. Francis D. Patterson, chief of the State Division of Hygiene, assisted by a
committee of experts, has offered a comprehensive definition which the board will
consider. Under the act the medical expenses granted for the first 14 days may
amount to f 25; or if there has been a major operation $75.
200 FISHERMEN PERISH IN STORM OFF CEYLON
LONDON, July 21. Two hundred fishermen lost their lives In a monsoon off
the coast of Ceylon, It is believed, according to a dispatch from Colombo. A large
fishing fleet was caught by the storm and more than 100 boats nave failed to return.
PHILADELPHIA MINT OUTPUT SETS NEW RECORD
Although the inventory of the output of the United States Mint In Philadelphia
sets a new record, the coinage amounting to more than $380,000,000 with a waste
of but 59 1-3 ounces o( precious metal during the vear ended June 30, indications
are that next year's Inventory will show a conslderaole inctease over this stupendous
figure.
PORT'S F7SCAL YEAR EXPORTS TOTAL 197,008,814
Exports from Philadelphia for the fiscal ear ending June 30, 1916, amounted
to $137,008,814, as compared with $30,516,521 for 1915. Ir.-.ports amounted to $05,801,.
175, against $72,948,013 for the last fiscal year. These figures were given out yes
terday at the local Custom House, The greatest value for any one single Hem of
export was for gunpowder. This commodity was valued at $35,099,082. Sugar was
appraised at $32,730,192.
MEMBERSHIP OF Y, M, C, A. MORE THAN 700,000
NEW YORK. July 21. The Young Men's Christian Assoclatloi. of Nc-rth
America has 782 buildings, valued at $83,300,000, according to statistics Just com
pleted. More than 700,000 boys and young men are on the membership rolls; nearly
100,000 have enrolled in vocational evening classes, 350.00C use the gymnasiums,
125,000 live In the dormltorler and 130.000 have registered in religious and educa
tional classes.
. PENNSYLVANIA SOLDIERS WILL VOTE AT BORDER
Pennsjlvanlf. soldiers, who aw sewing at the border, need not worry about
either their votes or their debtt They will vote under the supervisor, of an election
commission. The law provides, as far as debt ie concernedj that no civlt process
shal be Issued o. enforced against am persor. mustered into the service of the
Commonwealth o of the United States during his term of service, nor until 30 days
after he has been released
NEWS
SLAV -TROOPS
SMASH FOE
LINE IN NORTH
Russians Strike Terrific
Blows at Teutons in
Riga Sector
KOVEL AGAIN MENACED
Lcmberg Reported Evacuated by
Civilians and Austrian
Staff
While tho forces of General Kuro
patkin nro pressing their terrific artil
lery and infantry attacks ngninst Field
Marshal von Ilindenburg's front In the
Rlgn-Dvinsk sector, General Brussiloff
and General Knlcdinc arc pushing their
drives on tho Stokhod and Lipa lines.
On tho Rign-Dvinsk front tho Rus
sians havo inflicted severe losses on the
enemy, breaking tho German lino with
their guns and preventing tho sending
of reinforcements to tho Austro-Ger-mans
in tho south. '
On the Stokhod line the attacks of
tho Slav troops have increased to such
nn extent that Kovcl is again menaced,
ns tho Germans are making' despcrato
efforts to halt tho Russian advance.
On the Lipa line the Russians aro
hammering the nrmy of von Linsingcn
with constantly increasing energy.
They are bringing up heavy reinforce
ments in men nnd munitions, deter
mined to break through southward into
northern Gnlicia and sweep forward
on Lemberg. Tho latter city, it is re
ported, has been abandoned by virtu
ally its entire civil population, whilo
tho Austrian Genernl Staff, hitherto
located there, has deemed it advisable;
to move farther into tho interior.
The Russian forces operating in
Bukowina aro continuing their pressure
both against the Carpathian passes and
tho Delatyn-Stanislau-Lemberg rail
way, the southern thread of tho groat
net which the armies of tho Czar aro
slowly but surely drawing around tho
Gnlician capital.
KUR0PATKIN SMASHES FOE'S
LINE ON RIGA-DVINSK FRONT;
SLAVS MENACE TWO CETIES
PETROORAD, July 21.
The Russian forces under General Kuro
patkln aro furiously attacking the German
nrmy under Field Marshal von Hlndenburg
In the Riga sector, according to dispatches
from the front today. For several days the
Germans have been subjected to the artil
lery fire of the Russians, which devastated
the enemy's positions and paved the way
for Infantry assaults.
The heavy artillery of the Russians haa
brokeh the German line,' according to re
ports from the front, and the Germans have
suffered heavy losses. Field Marshal von
Hlndenburg Is personally directing the
German defense. He launched a furious
counter-attack, which was repulsed by the
Czar's forces with heavy losses.
Kovel Is again seriously endangered.
Lemberg Is also menaced and the city Is
almost entirely evacuated by the civil pop
ulation. According to one report, the Austrian
headquarters staff decided to move from the
city, which it tecognized could not be de
fended. RUSSIANS STRIKE HARD .
ALONG ST0KH0D-LIPA FRONT;
TEUTONS MASS AT KOVEL
LONDON, July 21.
While Russian cavalrymen are sweeplmr
Into the Carpathian passes and preparing
the way for the Infantry to move upon the
plains of Hungary to the north the great
battle for the possession of Kovel and Lem
berg has reached its second stage.
With the Lutsk salient wiped out and the
Teutonic armies forced to retire beyond the,
Stokhod and Lipa Rivers, General Brus.
slloft Is concentrating all his attention
toward the successful launching of a blow
In this region.
Along the Lipa and Stokhod the battle
still rages furiously, with success see-saw
Ing first with one side and then with an
other. The astonishing rapidity of Brus
slloff's assaults, the elasticity wtlh which
he Is able to strike suddenly at points wide
ly distant, ts.bewllderlng the enemy's forces
so that their resistance la becoming less and
less organized.
RA.IDS NET MANY PRISONERS
Both here and along the Stokhod fre
quent jalds qre netting the Russians many
prisoners and vast booty. The roads lead
ing from the rear of the Russian lines are
reported choked with enemy captives and
with Russian supply wagons bearing to the
front Immense quantities of ammunition for
the renewed drive.
General Sakharoff, In front of Brody,
across the Gallclan border, and General
Kaledjnes, pounding at the Teuton lines in
the direction of Sokal, to. the west, are
both reported slowly working their way for
ward and consolidating their newly won
positions so strongly that Austrian, and
German counter-assaults have been unabl
to regain lost ground.
GERMANS MAS? AT KOVRU
Before Kovel the Germans have con-
centrated pearly 100.000 men under Gen
eral von Mackensen, according to EtorW
told by captured Gerihaa troops. oc 5vr
the Stokfcsd, or In poajsion of Vladioii.
Volynskj. Iba Rusuaiia will fac m .
the grctt tsjOct o! their eidmi&m ta
vS
M
. ( ,
W
