Larges i yThe Power
Morning Oculationof the Press
Morning Circulation -te exempgIe UJ1mjs J. j J __________
Ever Gathered Together -*-T1"',1- e od.emn
In the National Capital in, Rb
NO. 35. WEATHER-PARTY CLOUDY. WASHINGTON., D. C.. FJIDAY, JULY 21, 1916. ONE CENT.
WILSON APPEALS
FOR HARMONY IN
RANKS OF PARTY
Postmasters, at Banquet, Re
spond with Deafening Ova
tion Lasting Two Minutes.
BURLESON AT DINNER
By ANDREW &t KELLEY.
For over five minutes President Wilson
stood and listened to a demonstration
last night that must have warmed 'his
heart.
Members of the National Association of
Postmasters cheered him to the point
where he held up his hand and urgd the
banquet committee to check further en
thusiasm until the convehtion dinner pro
gram, at the Hotel Raileigh could he con
tinued.
"Let us bind ourselves together to prove
to the people of the United States that
we understand what they want and of
our readiness to do it better than any one
else they can find." he said, and the dele
gates echoed this thought by a cheer that
lasted over two minutes.
For Democratic doctrine, the President
made a speech that had the delerates
holding themselves in check to prevent
excess enthusiasm.
Burleson Is Present.
The President wore Palm Beach suit
and was apparently as happy and care
free as the duties of his office will per
mit. He smiled repeatedly long before
he arose to answer the introductory
speech of Postmaster Selph. and he
smiled as he watched the enthusiasm
which frequent:y greeted his remarks.
Postmaster General Burleson. Secretary
McAdoo and Secretarv of the Navy
Daniels were among those who applauded
the President's remarks in which he
said:
If the Democratic party will bend all its
efforts and its intelligence to understand
ing the people of the United States and
I NTlNt'ED UN PAGE TWO.
PANCHO VILLA
WINS TORREON
El Paso Hears Bandit Has
Captured Important
City.
By H. W. STANSDt RA.
4 Itcrsatiomal News Service.)
E-l Pa,-. July 2 -Pancho Villa. or
starvation-which will win in Mexico?
Complete disintegration of the Carranza
government is inevitable. Either of these
:rim factors will require only a brief
tace of time to accomplish the task.
Reports received at military headquar
ters today credited Villa with having
taken Torreon. Details are lacking. but
the information is believed.
The same reports told thAt business had
bon completely suspended in Chihuahua
City and the towns of that district. Mer
,hants have refused to dispose of the
few remaininr remnants of their sup
plies for the worthless de facto govern
ment currency.
Villa, profiting hy these conditions, han
been able to organize an army that peom
ir-s to sweep everything before it.
GREEKS CROSS BULGARIA.
Reservists Return to Roumants
After Army Demobilisation.
Berlin. via Sayville wireless, July 20.
A dispatch to the Vossiche Zeitung states
that 1,00 Greek reservists, returning tc
Roumania after the demobilization of the
Greek army, have been allowed to cross
Bulgaria.
BRmSH CONFISCATE MATT.
Berlin Reports that it %as a
Route to New Y ork.
Berlin. July 0.-Dispatches from Ams
terdam stat that the British sea forces
confiscated all the first.lass mail on
the Dutch liner Noordam while en route
to New York.
THE CIRCL
A Ge
JANULARY.
District of Columbia. as:
E. C. ROGERS. business manager
of The Washington HERALD, does
eoiemnl2 swear that the actual num
her of copies of the paper named sold
and distributed on Sunday dtring the
month of January. .A. D. 1916, was as
lieows:
SULN DAY.
Jan. u--Five-cent paper.
Days. Copies. IDays. Copies
9...........21.745 22..........2,84
1'.... 251'4 ' 0..........26.45;
99.812
t.ess returns .................... 8,642
Net paid Sunday circulation.... 91.161
Average net paid Sunday circu
lation......................... 1
Average number of copies for
service, exchanges. advertis
era. etc....................... 238!
Average net Sunday circulat ion.. MM
B. C. ROGERS,
Business Manager.
Sworn to and subscribed before me
this 17th day of July. 1916.
MEXCANS BUY BOATS;
MAY BE "GUN-RUNRS"
Three fast saIling schooners. with
anxiary power, have been purchased bY
Mexicans with the suspected purpose of
ilibustering, according to information in
tWe hands of the Department of Justice
yesterday.
The Frontera, the Lucy N. and the Ven
tura are the ships already in the hands
in Mexicans. Each ome of these vessels
has a romantic record. The Frontera
was followed by the Coast Guard cutter
Apache out of Baltimore.
It was expected that she would try to
add to her cargqof coal and machinery
some guns and ammunition and govern
ment agents still are keeping a watch for
her at South Atlantic and Gulf ports. The
Lucy H. is notorious. The Ventura also
is experienced in running arm.
MAYOR'S DOUBLE FOOLS
A RURAL POLICEMAN
Special to The Washington Hesld.
New York, July 30.-A dispatch from
South Norwalk, Conn.. today said that
Mayor Mitchel was held up there last
night by the police for violation of traffic
regulations. The story went on to tell
how "Officer Sweeney stopped him and
demanded his license," and added the fol
lowing details
S'Im Mayor Mitchel of New York
CiPy.' remarked his honor.
" 'I don't care if you are President
Wilson; where's your lIcense?'
"Mr. Mitchel said he had to get back
to the city and the officer let him go."
"Somebody must have been putting it
over on the South Norwalk police," said
the mayor when he saw the dispatch.
WILL TAKE $126,498
SHE FORMERLY SPURNED
ect' to The Wambington Herald.
New York, July 20 -Miss Edith H.
Kitching has finally decided to accept the
"tainted' money accumulated by hei
uncle. Francis F. Ripley. who by loaning
money for more than twenty years and
doing it successfully amassed a fortune
of $301. 49.
At the time of her uncle's death it waF
thought that Miss Kitchen would get $50,
AM, the amount Ripley had jotted oppo
site her name in a memorandum book
but she, having detected a fancied tain
in the manner of its accumulation, an.
nounced that she would accept no pari
of the estate. Later, when held sole hell
to the estate she changed her mind, and
arranged a compromise by which she
gets $12.498.
EXPLOSIVE OSCULATIONS
ANNOY STAID PATRONS
Special to The Washington Hes:d
Sunbury, Pa., July 20.-Osculatory ex
changes that made enough noise to dis
turb the peace of staid matrons who livo
along Susquehanna Park, is the heart o
Sunbury, was the cause, it was said to
day, of a police order that spooning ir
the public parks must cease.
Asked whether the complainants wer
maiden or married women, the police re
fused to state.
Victor Wible. a policeman, who chase
numerous couples who were enjoying tho
moonlight under the seclusion of friendl:
maple trees, declares he will obey order
and arrest the first spoony couple h
meets.
WAR BRIDES WON'T GET
HUBBIES, FUNSTON RULE!
(By the International Newn Service.
San Antonio. July 20.-War brides wil
not get their hubbies back under th,
'dependent relative" order. Gen. Funs
ton said today he would not dismiss fron
the service any National Guardne
whose application and affidavits showe4
they had married after being called t
the Federal service.
Gen. Funston has made an iron-cla<
I rule not to approve the applications fto
muster out from soldiers who joineq
their organizations after the Presiden
called out the National Guard.
TO EXHIBIT CAPTURED
SUBMARINE IN LONDO?
(By the International News Service,
London, July 20.-A captured Germai
submarine is to be placed on exhibitia
at Temple Pier next week.
Announcement to this effect was mad
in Commons today by Thomas MacNa
mara of the admiralty.
JLATION GI
zin of Over 60 Per
FE:BRUARY.
IDistrict of,, Coumbi,as:
EC ROGERS, busIness manage
> f TeWashington HERALD, doe
rolemnly swear tnat the actual num
b er of copies of the paper named sol
an itiuted on Sunday during th
mont of ebruryA. D. 1916, was d
follows:
SUNDAY.
Days, Copies. iDays, Cople.
6.. . . . 26,700 20.-..... 27,50
I13......... 27,347 27..... 28,71
Less returns ........... 71
Net paid Sunday, circulation. ... .103,1
Average net Sdlnday paid circu
Average number of copies for
service, exchanges, advertis
Average net Sunday circulation, Sy,5t
E. C. ROGERS,
--Business Manages,
Sworn to and subscribed before a
thiS 17th day of July, 1916.
(Seal) PAUL F. CAINJ,
Notary unilo_ m. 4
PROTESTS STIR
U.S.TO ACTION
ON BLACKLIST
Steps Taken to Call Great
Britain to Account
for Order.
Spurred into action by widespread pro
tests against the British blacklist. thi
United States yesterday took steps it
call Great Britain to account. Develop
ments of the day were:
First. Acting Secretary of State Poll
made informal representations to thi
British Ambassador seeking informatiot
as to scope and purpose of the tradini
with the enemy blacklist.
Second, The State Department reached
the decision to forward a protest to th
London foreign office as soon as th
British Embassy replies to the reques
for information made yesterday. Thi
protest is expected to go forward todal
or Saturday.
Third, Chevalier van Rappard, the Neth,
erlands Minister. asked the State De
partment for information regarding thil
government's course. This is believed t
pave the way for renewal of negotiationi
for joint action by neutral governmenti
against British agd'ession.
Fourth. Blacklisted firms protested t(
the State Department against the illegal
ity of the British government discrini
natory action.
Fifth. Congressional leaders preparedt,
frame retaliatory legislation in respons
to the demand for action to compel aban
donment by Great Britain of a polic;
that threatens widespread injury to Amer
ian commerce.
INSANE MAN
SHOOTSFOUR
Burns House, Held as Fort
Kills Self as Blast Rends
Home.
(By the laternational News Service
Newark. N. J., July 20.-An insan
inventor. Salvator Castronova, she
down four men in Broad street her
tonight, using the second floor 0
numbers 873-5 as a fort.
Then. while the gathering force 0
police tried to take pot shots at hir
as he ducked from window to win
dow he bombarded another house an
splintered all the plate-glass sho
windows within range.
First he used a double-barrele
shot gun loaded with bucksho
Then he resorted to four revolvers.
Finally, dancing maniacally in th
flames of the building which he ha
fired. and of his own clothing. whic
he had set on fire after saturatin
them with oil. he fired a revolve
r bullet into his head and fell back int
the fire. which reduced his body to
cinder. The greater part of th
building was destroyed.
Meanwhile the, little one-stor
building next door, at No. 371 1
Broad street in which Castronov
lived alone and carried on his busi
ness of locksmith and gunsmith, wa
rent by a violent explosion. It wa
I speedily burned to the ground.
SIGHT U-BOAT FAR SOUTH.
Norwegian Crew Reports Subuarin
Off Florida Coast.
Colon. July 20.-Declarations by mer
bers of the crew of the Norwegia
steamer Terrier that they sighted a sul
r marine off Watling Island, one of th
Bahamas, created great interest her
today.
One theory discussed here was th
the vessel seen was the German sut
mersible Bremen driven far out of i1
course.
Pleads for Relief of Hebrews.
I New York, July 20.-Herman Bernste:
s new editor of the American Hebrew, I
tomorrow's issue of the Jewish nation
a weekly, pleads for unity upon the pa
- of the Hebrew race for the alleviation 4
suffering in the belligerent countries.
IOWTH OF
Cent Within Six M
MARCH.
District of Columbia, as:
r E. C. ROGERS, business manags
5 of The Washington HERALD, do:
- solemnly swvear that the actual nun
El ber of copies of the paper named so
C and distributed on Sunday during ti
5 month of March, A. D. 1916, was
follows:
BUlNDAY.
t. Days Copies. IDays Cnpi
9 6..........30,52019-....3,
5 12..... 35 26....3,
0 Less returns ...................137,
11 Net paid Sunday circulation.z...2
Average paid net Sunday crcu-'
Aveae number of copies for
serice exchanges, advertis
16 erCa et....................,
6 veaenet Sunday circulatin'Z
E. C. ROGERS,
Business Manager.
C Sworn to and suibicribed beforen
this 6tir day of April. 1316.
U-Liner Owner Ready
To Bet n Sae Trip
by WILLIAM BAYARD HALE.
(Interntmaial News Servce.)
.Berlin, July 20.- showed
Alfred Lohmann, the president
of the company owning the
submarine Deutschland, a dis
patch citing the London
Chronicle as saying that Eng
lish sporting people in New
York were willing to wager
50 to i, up to 5,000 pounds,
that the Deutschland would
never reach Bremen.
Mr. Lohmann authorizes me
to say' that he will accept
forthwith, and on the spot,
any offer. He will, within
twenty-four hours of the no
tice of a veritable offer of this
wager, deposit up to the maxi
mum mentioned by "English
sporting people" in the hands
of New York newspapers.
:[CITY SUED BY
'I RAID VICTIMS
Dragged from Their Home
by Philadelphia Police,
They Allege.
Philadelphia. July 2A-The Innocent vi
tims caught in the dragnet of last sa
urday's raid have commenced to retaliat,
and the city will be compelled to defen
itself to the amount of several thousant
of dollars involved in lawsuits. The fir
two suits were entered yesterday an
others are expected to develop. The
grievances are based on claims of falh
arrest and false imprisonment.
Other persons caught in the raid, wt
were doing nothing .worse than sleepi,
in their own homes, are expected to fi
suits against the city for trespass. fall
arrest and imprisonment. and for oth,
indignities to which they were merciless]
e subjected hv the poll.
; BAKER SPIKES
f AID FOR ARM)
, War Secretary Denies Nee
P for Hospital Backed by
Lindley M. Garrison.
Seeretary of War Baker issued a stati
d ment last night denouncing the appe
h which Mrs. J. Bmrden Harriman is mal
g ing for subscriptions to establish a hoi
r pital at Brownsville.
0 The committee in charge of this er
a terprise Is headed by Lindley M. Garr
e son, former Secretary of War. and
made up of well-known Americans. M
y Baker says the appeal is based on error
2 eous reports concerning the need of adds
o hospital facilties for the army and ti
militia.
"My attention has just been called
* he said, "to an appeal issued by ti
American Committee for the Maintenan<
of the Border Hospital at BrownsvHl
Tex. The object of the appeal is 1
collect $12,00 for the further maintei
e ance of a hospital at Brownsville. TI
letter, however, mistakenly states th,
this small private hospital constitutes ti
n only hospital facilities available toda
for thousands of our troops who cent4
at Brownsville. The Medical Depar
ment :f the army has supplied ever
need and request from Gen. Funston."
Lt
SWEDEN VERY INDIGNANT.
German and Ras-an Nemtrau
Violations Stir Nation.
London, July 20.-A Copenhagen di
Patch to the Central News says that ti
in Swedish government is very indignai
over the violation of her neutrality I
German and Russian warships.
Swedish newspapers in commenting c
these violations say: 'We are not ai
other Greece."
THE SUNDA
onths of the First.
APRIL..
District of Columbia, as:
yr iE. C. ROGERS. business manag
sof The Washington HERALD, do
1- solemnly swear tnat the actual nur
Id her of copies of tine paper named ao
le and distributed on Sunday during tl
Ls month of April. .\. D). 1916, was
follows:
NUNDAY.
Days, Copies. Days. Copi<
- 2......3.5 16....3,
39 3 . . . . . 3 .
9163,4
Ljiess returns ......-.-..-.-----.--.-..8
_ Net paid Sunday circulation..1,
HAverage net paid Sunday circu
....at..on...........---------...,m
Average number of copies for
service, exchanges, advertis
11 ers. etc..........--. -------...
Average net Sunday circulation 31,1
;.C. ROGERS,
iBusiness Manageg.
ye Sworn to and stibscribed before 1
this 2d day of May. 191
I(Seal.) - PAU'L F. CAIN,
a5otag tuMes DA
WOMAN DOCTOR
MURDERED, NOW
POLICE THEORY
Examiner Believes Fatal Dose
Acninistered in Medical
Trio Tragedy.
(2y the International News serviee.)
Boston, Mass.. July 20.-The police are
working tonight on a theory advanced by
the friends of Dr. Celia P. Adams. fem
inine point in the triangular mix-up that
resulted in the shooting of Dr. Wilfred
E. Harris by Dr. Eldridge D. Atwood,
the girl's sweetheart, to the effect that
the young woman physician did not vol
untarily swallow the poL-on that caused
her death but was murdered.
This theory was based on the report of
Medical Examiner Magrath, who stated
that he is as yet unable to determine
how the fatal do-e was administered.
"I certainly believe that some one is
responsible for t'-e death of Dr. Celia
Paine Adams." declared Edward W. Ken
ney. the Woburn attorney, who has been
retained to defend Dr. Atwood.
"I am not prepared at this time to say
just what leads me to this belief.- said
I Kenney. "I am firmly convinced that the
I young woman did not take her own life.
Meanwhile the possibility that Dr. Har
ris may live to tell his own story of his
5 relations with the Adams girl and of
the events preceding- the shooting is
growing. At 2:30 o-clock this afternoon
it was stated at the City Hospital that
his condition was much improved.
SCOURGE KILLS
d 31 MORE TOTS
itl
d Day Adds 119 Little Ones to
the Epidemic List in
Gotham.
g
e (By the International New. service.
e New York. July 20.-The epidemic of in
r fantile paralysis robbed the city 0
y thirty-one more babies today.
To the number of those who lie stil:
and helpless on beds of suffering wai
added 11. more little ones. The authori
ties. h<>wever. drew comfvrt from the
F fact that this figure represents a de
rease of twenty-three from yesterday'
victims.
Tonight the grand total since the be
ginning of the epidemic. stands at 49
deaths and 2.446 cases.
Health Commissioner Haven Emersot
was palpably encouraged today by th<
lecrease in cases.
"We feel that we have the situatiot
well in hand." he declared.
The machinery of the city and Federa
government was working smoothly to
day. Quarantine regulations were being
strictly enforced by volunteer squads o
unmarried policemen and cases wer
- being dicov ered in their incipiency.
- "BETSY ROSS EIRS" TO SUE.
d Fngage Counsel in Clatim for '. %
e Naval Station Stte.
Pittshurgh. July 20-Property valuet
at millions of dollars in Philadelphia an<
e Washington D. I C.. Rill he sued for h:
e the 'Betsy Ross Heirs Asociation." a,
cording to A. Seligsohn. of this city. wh<
o was engaged to look after the claim fo
the heim of Betsy Rose. Suit will b
eotered in the Philadelphia courts ithi
the next ten days. he said.
.e The property includes the site of th
John Wanamaker Building and the ol
fMint site in Philadelphia. part of the sit
of the United States Naval Station a
Washington. D. C., and other valuabl.
property.
RUSS GUNS WRECK ZEPPELIN.
Brought Down While Making laIt
I on Riga.
The Hague. July 30-A Zeppelin at
- ship which raided Riga was hit by shell
ie from Russian high-angle guns and wreck
it ed near Tukkuo. says a dispatch fror
'y Cologne today. A majority of the cre,
n was saved.
Thc Zeppelin is being dismantled b
engineers.
Y HERALD
hasue of the ONE-(
I WAY.
District of '.oltmbia. a:
SIr E. C. ROGERS. business manage
as of The Washington HERALD, dot
solemnly swear that the actual nlum
Id ber of copies of the paper named sol
te and distr'ibuited on Sunday during thl
na month of May. A. D. 191. wvasa
follows:
SUNDAY.
Es Days Copies. Days. Copie
7.........i 33.695 21..........33;:
0 ----- 3339 2...........35,35
02 0
7 Less returns ...................i11.1
ea Net paid Sunday circulation. .. .124.S2
Average net paid circulation.... 31,24
1S Average number of copies for
-service. exchangea, advertis
ers, etc...........................S
-- Average net Sunday circulation.. 32O
17 E. C. ROGERTS.
Stusiness Managrer.
te 9worn to and sub'scrited befoire m
this 1st day of June. 1916.
(SeaL) PAUL F. CAIN.
.Mtary ?ublic, D. C.
FRENCH SLASH GREAT
- HOLE IN FOE'S LINE
ON SEVEN-MILE FRONT
Germans Forced Back to Somme South of
River, While Haig, on North Bank,
Gains Half Mile; 2,900 Prisoners...
IBy the laternatiemal News
London. July 20.-The French corps of GeM. Foch today cut a grew
gash in the German front south of the Somme on a front of seven miles.
Tonight their lines have reached the river at one point, while in a late
afternoon attack, delivered along a front of two and a half miles from
Estrees to Vermandovillers. the important height which takes the name of
the latter place was caried. together with theGerman first line trenches alofg
the entire front of attack.
In a simultaneous attack north of the river Somme the French piled
forward from their Herbecourt-Mamelon line to the very banks of the stream.
. HaLa- Break. Germas 1A...
StIll further to the northward. an.~
KOENIG READY front held by the British, Gn.a
TO D H HOM E truck a sturdy blow north of the Bann
tin-Longueval front. the English troops
driving through the German lines for
more than half a mile.
Dons Uniform and May Leave T gains today are equalled oiy by
those of the first daysa of the Pimedy
Port of Baltimore at battle In the courne of oly a few
hours 2,S9t Germans were take. pris
Any Hour. oner.
Speal to The ashigto n Several attalion have patily
Baltimore, July 20.-Prepared to leave wiped out, while for the twenty da of
Port at any moment, Capt. Paul Koenig. the offense the German csaities in
commander of the Deutschland. put on killed and wounded alone are e-timatd
his uniform today for the first time since Rt more than IM.Ot. Of prisoner, the
he landed here eleven days ago, and for French ad British hold more than 3
several hours studied the charts of the
Patapaco River and Cheaapeeke Bay wido
Capt F'rederick Hirsch, commander of the T LY H T
North German Lloyd liner Neckarts
When Capt. Koenig went hack aboa~rd' AE M N
tkie anernd onder he took a dupie atteim
manfes oftheship's cargo. Allothe
copy was ready to be taken to the cu= Royal Reprisal Decree Agpinst
Cp.Koei said be would not leavel Kaiser Aggravates Strain
his ship again, and indicated an earlr
departure, but said nothing that would ed Relations.
g Rive an Idea just when the submersible
would leave. (ai the SmtepnatiorafJ New, zervoer.)
It was understood the Deutshlands Rome. July X.-A royal decree was is
engines and submerging machinery sued this afternoon containing reprisal
had been given a linal test and found meaures against Geman subject. The
ma0 be In perfect condition decree was the resut of the strained
Capt. Hinsch. transportation master relations between Italy and Germany.
cfor the new freighter, is whispering to The dere ertndsa to the Aaist .
Ca. friends that the Bremen will dok miss of tay and her allies every mea
here by Saturday. Certainly, everything re adopted Against the Austrian Sub
points that way-and to the departure ) 1
of the Deutsctland either simultaneous:y The first Part Of the deree pwoaihts
or earlier. transfer of propenty n
haesecod prohbte a recourse the
CONVICT GMT A WINFALLT. Icourts.
The third suthories the govsrnment t
fOd Pal Se ds f Maris w eea adopt against the aten enemies of ly
h onsta thder Brmen90. a d her allies additional reprisal meas
Osshing. N. Y . Jiv 2v-Martin ured
sweeney, a long-term prisoner in Sing 'Relations between G-erman, and Italy
SIng Penitentiar yand a member of the wil now ded upon h'Gw
Judiiry Committee of the Mutual el- ou view te
fare I a:u e recently received an un- tedce
signed lett- aith a Or f order for
inclosed. It read in ^art is followsn GREEK OFFICERS JAE
SMn dear old pal, it is nearly thert5
ears since I saw you last. I recenti' Also Ia Cosalons for Autn-"
heard about your <ircumstances in a on Pro-Ally Newspaper.
most ac idental manner. ! alonikt. Jul% 2' -Greek officers who
"Martin. I can't get you 0.1t but it is re-coils St. ke . pro-sly newspaper.
my bounden duty to assist you in some t a sit t"t ended oniy when
way, so I i-ent you postofi.i monie:- . ar prain
a s ou o~tttle - the rIngle~der5 -' is arrestel Iy Freni-b
hoping it wil: do vou sonie good '
SAYS AUSTRIA IS UNITED. sins today and eenneal t. ci- hs
imprisonrnent in a fortress
Count Karol I Declare. Country I rtl ii -e ;T-n hi
FIghts as I alt. i Morhopoucs srd I.
',a Gre i{ ard French cnads.before
Berlin sv-a Saf ville wireless. Juls ---
Count Michael Karo!i'. founder of the Ie French surendered th ir prts'nera
itidependent party In Austria-Hungary. Ito the iree:. authorltirs
in a speech setting forth the aits ,f theI
organization, said In order to axoid
miisunderstar.lling. it is n'.essary to emi- Austrian I l a
tI phasize the fact that in Austria there is Hi. Bedsid.
t o difference of olinion and that uri Iondor. J i' '1 %n
duty Is to dcfend our country without dis
cussing the reasor.s. inec ii ,aF attacked th. repott recentl ,e'.t -, from Rom
by the enemy. h rteror Francs .tp ..i
I tra-Hunrars . a !.y :11 end. T hat Ii..
Another Washington Woman Loser. Imperial fai' ia,- nror, I t,
Newport. July 2n0-Mrs killian D. h: bedside at S-hoeh- ;n ast.
a Leahy. of Vaehington it a valuable'
diamond and sapphire her pin this morn- anandian Aviator Killed.
n log on her way to play tennis at the
Casino. Whitt; r. a 'andan was a> ict 1
This brings the list urn to three of those kiled toda, ril n
missing jewels. Mrs. William WNe!ls and. Tiane, ia h ,e The -id,, c, I!,.
Mine. ne RianO. wife of the $panish Am- ,hin slippel ar I he u i rou n To T".
hassador btnp the other loserd. grounr
REAKSR ALL RECORDSninc
I Districtaosfertofairoperty.
ri . . OGRS h-mes ange SOWThe erageohnt ai recustda
sot he Wshinton Ili-ALDTdo e cathirn ofuthoihe tgoen iEnRAt
adopolegalyst ear thltethenamtestonim-aI
anhro oie fteppe ae o d fo her atlie add thsal reprsa max
ewniitiutdo inla on h ll nof dIrs upo thaw de ofn
follows: ~~isses f the cire. ci~ una
Alo oN CmmtDtmsfo Ata.
talonaks.Coules. --GreekoofescerR Lho
4.........I47t 14preI ipiAsatm eme rof tht endd Burweu
4 11.........lnli .the ofCrcglatios thee arrstemenby Fre
3 moldeirs. wtr~c accrd oit that cormmt
4 l.essniurns................... mp.rionrulng wm h foteliiatsesr
cohso raial nwsarerdnt unlb
Net paidraundMoscirculatson.d..r.al.. th
~ Ghte and pi F recommrd bfr
7 Avrag ne pad cicultio. .. . The Arench ureaure thCirulatons
Averagenumberof copes for thath Gret natoalorani ain o
Aserrice Imerhangesmiladveired -
isesndJ nspaners aneiodcal
C. lIh tIR5. gruth ofispa tc ion clais s etrat
tiusui s Ma asr. the arepo r cnty hentir nthrt hoe i
thatsEmprordayanof Joulp.of1Au4
Ideal) P~l. F. AIN. ormper cami pev l has been mor dhto
I Whittar.Pa banadian, wasaavecensil .
