i J s ---.. , 's.-V'..''''V-'''
EATHER FORECAST. O
Showers to-day; to-morrow fair: itrone
""""' lu iionnweat winds.
Highest tempgrature yesterday, Bo; lowest, So.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 10.
SHINES FOPs, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 325.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1916. Copyright, 1910, tu the Sun 1'rtiitiug and Publishing Association,
ONE CENT
In flrenter Ner York. I Klsenlicrr,
Jereer City nnil Newark. ) TWO CUNTS.
" .-.Pw
fotf aW
VOTE TO STRIKE
RY PRIinRNTIil
jyi i uvvuniiuu
INSURANCE MEN
Commission Cut and Pis
missal of Thirty May
Force Out 6,000.
X. V. AXD X. .1. LOCALS
ACT UNANIMOUSLY
Appeals to Policy Holders
Is to Policy Holders
and State Officials
Are Promised.
Seven hundred agents of the Pru
dential Lift- Insurance Company, rep
resenting the New York ami New
Jeriey locals of their newly organized
union, voted to strike next Monday If
the company's threat made yesterday
to dismiss thirty men was enforced.
The vote was passed amid th wildest!
enthusiasm last nlKht. at a mass meeting '
held In the Imperial, 3.1 Fulton street, . a clockwork exploding arrangement men'., ('apt. Paul Koenlg put on lii:i unl
Brooklyn. There was not an opposing I l!o,nS ,0 th tenement house he hid him fnrm to-day for the first time since he
vote immediately afterward the an. 1 Se rn,i rtoor. which was un-1 landed here eleven days ago, and for
voie. 11nn.eu1.-ue1 artcrwaru the an- occupied, and began shooting through a , 1VI hours this motnlng studied the
1 "' ' " ,
jjhla Hjtents would go out If the strike
wsi called. This will mean. If the strike
poe? Into effect, that millions of Indus-
trl.l Insurant's policy holders will have 1
no one to whom to pay their premiums,
. . . .
and the agents declared last night that
It would be Impossible for the Pruden
tial to supply enough men to cope with
the situation.
If the differences between the com
pany jr.d Its tmpluyees are not adjusted
1,000 agents will be affected.
Nut to Crt ( iiniinlNnlons.
The cause of the men's action of last
r.lRht was an order lesued by the com-
rany on June 3 compelling them not
inly to cover policies which lapsed by
setting new polk les without commls-
slon but nlsn making them furnish
policies without commissions for the paid '
up and cash surrendered policies. The
aftentj, declared last night that this
aimost beignred them and deprived them
cl an i.rdlii-irily decent living.
The meetlnc last ntuht n.i rnli.,i in
ordtr by llnrrr Lumpkin, president of
the union, which has been named the
rrudintlal Agents Protective Associa
tion The war slogan. "We'll stick to
retaer until the sands of the desert
grim- cold," was rung with every one
Handing, and then the minutes of the
executive committee's meeting were read
calling for the wtrlke If the company
dlsmlsed even n single man.
Lumpkin then to- k occasion to deny
emphatically that any number of the
org.inlntiun was atllliated or In sym-
patny wun tne 1. vv. v saying tliat the
cemmny had deliberately misrepresented
faits when glvina utterance to that
statement.
Let u
'America,'
shouted
I.umpk.n. "to show that every one of
us .. for America, first, last and all the
Hire "
As soon as the cheering had subsided
.it'.er the so.ig Onirics Garnnklc. secre
tary of the union, addressed the meeting, and Jsmes Bell of the Second pre-lnct Deutschlaml from Baltimore has been The trilling of a canary entice! 1 o
hurling dollatuv tit the Prudential nnd made their way to the two and hmugit ntrposo,l In advance bv the embassies , ll inaii I.pler into the basement of a
tellli.g the men that the company wan ' Ihem down. The gunsmith's body was 'of the allied nations, there were Indl- i f.nenieut house at .,1 Thatford avenue,
afr.ili! nf thnn fnr It r.. iIIto.1 ih. n.ni . utmost rremnted before It wns taken I . ,11,.,., fn.,,tehl lli.it nflrr the American HlOWtlsvillc, VCStcnlay. Me traced the
1.,..l ............ . Ml.. .1 1.1-1. .1 '
nau rti.uiii, nunc llltrm w hich iney
could nut iomb.it.
jnii:ith nf Policyholders.
"We have the gnat mass of pollcy
lioklrs with us. Kvery policyholder has
f- vote In the company now, and If they
fa it, t iey can change the olllcers of the
( i ,ii!. So far they have never had
a -a. . Out we can make them have a
ai
I.umpkin adiresied the men again and
ex,', i. -ml fti.iy the plan of action de-
'Vd it the executive meeting In the
a'terr.uou.
'.N"( i I niay wi'en ou leport to
cai i:!!," remain there until you rind
'Mi, ,i, man has been dismissed,
. I w aether hla books have been
' ed by the companv Tho Prudential
.' seek to do this under the guise of
"SC'"!on, hut don't be fooled, if one
.i.n in an.v district la dip missed, the
a rnan of each lo. al has orders to
wire me, and every man In the employ of
' i I U'letit al Is expected lo lay down
h' boo' and walk out."
I' J Lang, vice-president of the or
ga'ilz.ition, the next speaker, Is an agent
fr"m Jercy City.
Kveiy year," he said, "our Incomes
rai been steadily decreasing, while the
wealth of the company has been glowing
sliinlllv We have employed the best
lawyers In New Jersey nnd are watch
rg e-erv move, Anything they attempt
tc do will be Immediately checkmated."
I 1) ll.ishoie, representing a New
V' I, local, traced the hlstoiy of Indus
trial insurance, declaring that the Pru
rtintial lonipany, Insisting upon having
l''iiei men In Its employ, Immediately
xattr-d them out under a system of de
tention and untruth. He said the men
had to evade and withhold truths finm
po ii v holibrs In order to make enough
t live
To romrnlttees were appointed, one
P no to Tietitnu and the other to visit
Albiny to-day to Inform the Commis
sioners of Insurance In these Stalea of
the impanv's action.
FACKARD CO. WON'T PAY MEN.
I'realdent Miipnuley Hnrprlseil at
IlipeetntlnilN nf Mlllllo.
DfThoiT, Mich., July 20, Alvan G.
Maciuley, president of the Packard
Mot'jr t'ar Company, expressed hie sur
prise to-day that the men who had left
his company's employ to Join the Na
tional Guard and were now stationed
on the Mexican border think their tal
ri's should be paid while they are ah
um on armv duty.
' It would be folly to attempt to con
tinue paying these men who have gone
Into military service," said Mr. Ma
faiiiev "Such a procedure would bank
rupt any company These men nre fight
rg .o' for the Packard Motor Com
par.y but for the whole United States."
Ninety.elght Packard employees are
now on the border with the National
f'.'4.-.r,l ainl MG are mi the frontier with
tn regular army a motor truck driven
and 212 more will leave within ten day.
Two are at Plnttsburg and twenty-flv.
more go there next week, making total
of "S7 men taken from the organization,
MANIAC SHOOTS 4
ENDS LIFE IN FIRE
Newark Gunsmith Wrecks
Home With Uomb Before
0enlu Fusillade.
two iiorsKs nruNKi)
Punic for Half Mile Around
ns Bullet Fly From Bar
ricaded Tenement.
Nhwark. N, j jy 20. Four men
were wounded by pistol bullets and
. uckhot ,0-nlht when saiv.tore ca.
, i.a,., Kunsmiin, or 371
Broad street, barricaded himself In a
rlrtuhl . . . . ... .
....t.nnii nouse ai 373 and ST.. '
n,n,j . . ... 1 11 iminnni" hub nas.ieu on me
tiroad street, adjoining hi. home, and ' Britisher Intermittently through the
opened a fusillade on passersby In the nlcnt'
street. Caitronovn's home was wrecked Cnpl ",nrh ,,ll'n of 'he Tlmlmns
bv hnmh . s . wrecked reported for duty aboard the lug to.
b bomb which he had set previously ! night. He had spent several days
and at the last minute he set tire to the ! nrontid the Virginia capes, presumably
1 if where he lay concealed, shot aim-1 setting a line on the movements of for
self through the head and died In the , warships.
name. It has boon reported to officials look-
t.aMronova, who was 53 years old, np- ln after the Deutschland's Interests
parently became suddenly demented. It "hnt a number of stranger have been
was about S o'clock when he left his j keeping close watch hero on the sub
shop, cirrying with him four heavy marine's movements. Others are said
revolvers and a shotgun, with a supply'10 he stationed .it strategic points all
bomb In his store before he left. Villi'
n..,, .mum, mi ior uotn. ne had set the
bomb In his store before li wt .. in, .
winuow. me ruIIIade asted Iweniv
minutes.
Smashes Cufr Wlmlona.
-u f"13""" e window of the
"-a"- " reoplci Hurlnl romnany ;
and
a harness shop across the street j
when several men attracted bv the noise .
came within his range. One of them. .
(.corge Krhardt, 10, of 4S Klghth ave-I
nue, fell with bullets In hlr hi.nl nml ,
body. Three others. Joseph Hunirjrdeii, 1
so, .,1 . i.iny urcei, .ewarK; riinrtes ' would leave. It was understood the
Mc(. ann. 19. of 41 Plane street. New- Deiitschland's engluts and submerging
ark. and Dennis Allen, 20. of 204 1 mnohlneiy had been Klveu a tlna! test
Twelfth street, Jersey City, fell victims ; and were found to be In perfect condl
to hl aim. The three latter wete struck , tlon.
with buckshot, receiving lulnf't' but not itm nfi
serious wounds. Krhardt. however, wan 1
badly wounded. Ail four were taken to
Michael's Hospital. ,
while the firing was at Its height 1
the bomb went off and the budding was ;
demolished. Flames burst from the
wreckage and the noise threw the com-
munlty for half a mile around into a I
Panic. I
frergt. James Ke'ii v and Policemen
v Stemburgh and Hemmer heard the
noise and ran up. Tlie.v saw C.tstionovn ,
leaning from a window, tiring h revolver
wlth each hand. They drew their own
weapons ana snot at him, and the gun-
smith d!nppeared from the window.
Both IIoiisph llnrtieil. 1 l.OOO.onn had been forwnrde 1 after be-
A second later shots begin to erne l"P Insured bj n well known marine 1111
from the other -Utc of the tenement, , demrltlnc house in Philadelphia at tntes
fnclrg Klghth avenue. They ran to that f between ' and 10 pei cent New
fldo and Castronova, cvblently rcalljlng York ntei's of the Philadelphia house
that his eml hnd p.-.'ne. left tho wltui.m- denied any kno v ledge of th shipment.
again. Within 11 moment names "hot
.111 from the biilldltiL- He liml unren.i nit
all about him and touched It jff. Tlte
'policemen aw him standing In the win-
dow. M clothes ablaze, Just as he shot
himself.
Two Are alarms weie nent In, but It ,
was too late to save elthei house. On
the floor, above where Caslionova lay
the tlremen found Mrs. Michael Mot-'
rlssey and her tive-ycai-o'.d son trapped
In the blaao. Policemen Luke Oonljii
n. tk. I...lll.,u
uuiii uu.imuih.
WOMAN STABS MISS HOPPER.
Arlress Victim nf lint
lack l r 1. 1 de ii lifted
Pin In t
Asaiilla lit.
lCJna Wallace Hopper, the actress, was
saulte(i Wednesday night by all un-'
i Identified woman In ftont of ti gaiage a
223 West For.y-nlnth street. Miss Hi'i-
per's assailant pulled out a hat pin and
jabbed It twice through the uctresb's
cheek. She then began to beat Mls-i
Hopper over the head .itid shoulder
As a r-sult of the ntlnck Miss Hopper
has been undic the care of a physician.
Despite her Injury, she tefused to cancel
her vaudeville engagement at the Palace
Theatre, wh're she Is playing for charity.
She ald last night the knew nf no
reason for the attack uison Imr and that
It might have been a case of mistaken
Identity.
KILLED AS HUNDBEDS WATCH.
Mnnifnrrl frfleetrlc liispeekor
Miliicked by U.UIH) olt.
HTAMrORD, Conn., July 20. Carter
Dufrnjne. an Inspector for the Stamford
Gas and Electric Company, was killed in
Atlantic Square to-night In view of hun
dreds of people. He was repairing a
street light and In some manner net
clear a short circuit was formed and 2,200
vults of electricity coursed tluough tils
body.
His mother, Mrs. Dufrayne, lives at
S75 Jackson avenue, The Bronx.
SPAIN TO REDUCE EXPENSES.
Budget for I III 7 Coiilemplalee
Deficit of fUT.nOO.IMM).
Washington, July 20. Spain's bud
get for 1917 plans reduced expenses,
Increased Income nnd u much smaller
deficit, according to air outline reaching
the American Government to-day. Ad
ditional funds will be lulsed through
Indirect taxes. Expenses will lie cut In
many directions.
Receipts for 1917 are put at $252,
000,000 and expendltuies at 279.000,000,
leaving a 127,000,000 deficit, The IMS
deficit amounted to I2,000,000,
ARMY TRANSPORT IN CRASH.
Crook Damaged In Collision With
Jnpniieir Craft.
San Fhancisco, July 20, The army
transport Crook, outward bound for
Alaska, was In collision late to-day, while
passing through the Golden Gate In a
fog, with the Japanese steamer Anyo
Maru, Inward bound from Valparaiso,
Three of the Crook's plates were
sprung, and the transport returned to
the army wharf for repairs. The Anyo
was undamaged. ,
Charles Mareell's Body Fnnn1.
Chpmotoan, Mich., July 20, The Iody
of Charles Marcell of New York who,
with James H. Hurty, also of New York,
left here In a canoe early In June for
Sault Ste. Marie, was found on the shore
of Albany Island, near here, to-day,
AND NEW YORK PRE S S
BRITISH SHIP RESTS
ALONGSIDE U BOAT
Carjro Steamer Anchors So She
Can Watch Movements of
the Dcittschland.
lUl.TlMonK, July 20. A British cargo
ship which anchored. off the berth of the
merchant submarine Deutschlnnd gave
olllclals of the Eastern Forwarding Com
pany considerable worry to-night. The
British vessel Is In a position to observe
any movement of the submarine
The searchlight of the Forwardln com-1
..'- .... .. .
"own me 1 nesapeaue tiay to the capes,
Prepared tn leave tinrt .it nil l' inn.
charts of the Patapsco niver and rhos
apouke Bay with ("apt. Frederick
lllnsch, roinmnnder of the North Her
man l.loyd liner Neckar. When rant.
Koenlg went back aboard the undersea
V.. 1 1. ... 1 . L. 1.1 l ,... I
liner he took with him a duplicate mnnl
fest of the shin's carro. Another con-
was ready to be takm to the custom
h..vise.
('apt Koenig said he would not leave
hl ship again and Indicated an ejrlv
ilon.irtnr,. hut i- iin imihim, ihn ,mii.i
gl e an Idea Ju-t when the submersible)
that ho Intend it to remain aboard the
Captain (hanged hlr mind. Dotting hH
uform. he appealed In civilian attire
,,,. n the evening and went automol.II-
r?t Tn, rrew waK Rlven sl)rp Pnve
nr., n . v TJ nn 1 T n t Tnr
vULiU ir U BUM LsltiljU.
I.oimi.imio Hiliniient nepnrted la
.,,...,, j,...hd.
'
lleiHr'.s were -.nevalent In the financial
district yesterday of the shlppln? of a
targe iuantuy or gom 10 i.ermany on
the submarine Deittsi hlnnl.
Tlvoto In panivrnl nam t rt thp nlrVrf tti.tt
The tendency In underwriting ctrclrs
.s to belli ve the shipment, II made, was
t " large as ie.,0rtiMl.
nr,r,r,n,"r,1,r,' r Fr.r,, ,
PRO! ho I ShhMt) LIKhLl
wiled i:..iiin..ie. i:i.eit...i i ri
Ill llriitM'hltiiiil fuse,
W.vKiit.voTOK. July 20, Although no
fmmil object on to the clearance of
ihe liTman hubmaiiiie merchantman
Cnveinnient has placed Itself on record men y song to the thto.it or a Pint wnicn fiouii'iu sun a minium mr lauiiciung
by gnint "pers ? the Tn-1 belonged to Abraham Wlllner. a dweller aeroplanes, and now carries some half
formal representations made by the In a flat above, but which at that mo- dozen neroplnnert and several aeroplane
llrltisli and French Ambassadors soon ment was in the possession of Samuel otl ceis aboard
after the Deulschland's arrival might bo 1 Appelbaum. who was hiding In the eel- . The presence of this vessel at Hamp
su r.lemented by a more definite protest, hi . , ton Itoads led to liuiulry as to whether
The Allies' embisi'es are understood, Appelbaum wn charged In the New she would be usul to help imtrol the
to t ike the view that Issuance of clear- Jersey avenue police court with bur- ! three mile limit when the Deiitschlaiul
mice would furnish a basis upon which 'Slaty In that he had got Into the home makes her attempt to escape ttie cordon
... ,,,. .. , .km the merle.m
Govcinnient had pjrformed an act in-1
compatible with the principles of Inter
national law.
SIGHTED A 15 FT. MANEATER.
finest nf Co in moil ii re Benedict
I CiiUKht a, HOI) Pounds nf Fish.
! C.rkknvvich. Conn,. July Cfmmin.
I dore U. C. Benedict, who aboard hlHllmi adjourned the hearing to to
'yacht Oneina cast nncnor ai minim
Hirbor on Tuesday after n ten days
lla'Vitii' him'siZ uoa'l.oundrofiRICH, BUT STILL A COACHMAN.
H.h.
On the return trip, when about
twelve miles off Cape May. some of his
guests espied a maneater shark. They
estimated it measured about llfteen feet
In length. The commodore said to-day
that his outing was marked by plenty of
hot weather.
McADOO URGES SHARK NETS.
rprelnr sa) They Will Save
Dathi-ra From llronilluur.
Mnybe some good things may come
out of the shark sciire that has affected
Ihe batherx anil the owners of bath
houses along the Atlantic coast for the
last several weeks.
Secretary McAdoo of Ihe Treasury
l.i.... .i.i.a.il n.iimnn 1 vest eril II V lifter
his experts had rend the reports of In -
vestlgators of shark ravages that the
danger could be met by enclosing IlinljIISS MASARYK IS UNHARMED.
bathing liruenos wun nets 01 sieei wire
mid by persuading balhers not to ven
ture Into the surf until the Installation
of the nets,
Mr. McAiloo declares that the sug
gested form of protection also will pie
vent unwary swimmers fioin being mvept
out to sen.
WILSON FIRM ON "CHUD1 BILL.
Kern BeporlN Nennle Will Stay Till
Measure la Passed.
Washington, July 20, senator Kern
conferred with the President to-day on
the proposal submitted by Mr. Wil.-.nn
that the child labor bill, so obnoxious
to certain Southern Seuatois, be In
eluded In the leglalatlvo programme,
When Senator Kern came away he ad
mitted that he had told the President
that the Interjection of the bill Into the
programme probably would delay ad
journment, but expressed the opinion
that It was the duty of the Senate to
remain In session until the measure Is
passed.
It was learned that Ihe Fiesident is
disposed to Insist on the passage of the
bill In view of the challenge that has
come from the Republican side, through
Senator Galllnger, that the Republicans
desire to vote upon the bill at this
iceslon.
CAPT. SIMS 5 BATTLE REPORT
TO SHOCK 'NEUTRAL9 WILSON
Commander of Xevada, Obeying Daniels's rnfortunate
Keuest, Praises British Strategy Over Ger
mans in Xaval Action Off Jutland.
Washinoton, .luly 20. President Wll
son's expressed desire to be scrupulously I
neutral with regard to the war In Eu
rope Is destined to suffer n rude shook
unlet, somebody sidetracks a report
called for and now carefully guarded
by Secretary Daniels.
The report Is the statement which
I'npt. W M. Slm. commanding th bat
uesnip e-nn.i, nas mane on tne naval
battle orf Jutland at the special requent
of the fVcrrtnry of the Navy
Mr. Danleln, together with several
Democratic members of the House Naval
t'ommlttee, desired to have a frank
statement from fapt. Mms with par- mi,r(,,ood to have ronsldWed giving
tlctilar reference to the role p!ned by )t ot fnr publication In a "ciiore.t
the battle cruisers In this engagement fnn, Hut he has not vet made up his
and with general reference to the le-1 nlm,
sons to be gleincd from that light. j The 'resident has forbidden otllcer- of
They got a frank statement ery the nrmv or navv to make any comment
fraik. In fact for t'aptaln Sims hn which might be construeil unneutral
long been known In the service for call-1 p, any f the belligerents, The deserlp
Ing "a spade a sp-ule ' He Is said to , tlon which ('apt Slm has given of the
have given a 'or 'cful nccomit of th I battle off Jutland, as he pictured It, !a
masterful strategy of the nrlthh com- raid to be a classic and contains ex
p.ired with that of the (Jernans. 1 rtllent Ideas and sound deductive Judg-
(.'apt. Slm Is odmlttedlv a great ad- 1 meiit for the American navy.
ARCHIE ROOSEVELT
PUNISHES QUENTIN
Latter Drops Cun at Platts-
burg and Brother Exer
cises Authority.
Pl.ATTsrfno. N, V, July 20 One of
the horrors of war was visited to-day
uiMin ;iientln Rcsevelt, corporal of
Company II, Fourth Training lteglment.
Ills brother, Archie, did the visiting.
Archie Is Mist sergeant of Company
I! When the command was drawn up
In company front the vigilant "top"
noticed that a title far down the line
had been iiroppfd.
"What duffer has grounded his rifle?"
he demanded sharply.
For answer his brother supped sheep
ishly out of line.
Archie blushed and Quentln blushtd
ntid some one In the background tit
tered. "Th.it will do.'' said Sergeant TTBOSe
velt with dignity, and the drill went on.
Hut Archie blacklisted (Jin ntln. and the
lompauv commander depr.ved Corporal
Itoosevelt of his lllieitv for three days.
In that time ijuentui cannot leave his
company Hreet excipt on duty
He Is only hoping that his father.
who Is due to arrive .Saturday f r a
slay of several days, doesn't get In until
his punishment Is over.
CANARY'S SONG BRINGS $7.50.
I'nssliiu In I'liiirt.
of W'llner and stolen the canary. He
told Magistrate Heynoldp he had been
lout of a Job for many weeks and that
he, his wife and seven children were
try itiir, no very successfully, to live
at IS Hcrxle street on the J." a week
which one of his sons earned.
His story of hardship and hunger
so Impressed those In the court room
that Isldor Knllet, a lawjer. passed
his hat around and collected Ji.fin for
the pi Issuer. The Magistrate chipped In
morrow.
lleiiltle's I. on ii nf gil.lKIO la l.nte ,1.
II, Moore llrniiuht HI 00,01)11.
CtucAoo, July 20. Although William
Beattle, coachman fnr the late James
Hohart Moore, Is said to possess prop
erty valued at more than tlOO.nnn, he is
to-day perfoi tiling the service whlih has
been his custom for nearly twenty years.
Beattle had been In the employ of
Moore for some years, when as a result
of his Diamond Match operations his
employer became n p.iuper over night.
Beattle had $2,000 In bank, which he
turned over to Mr. Moore, who accepted
the sum to tide him over some minor
transactions which biought him large
pnilllH and reestablished his credit.
Then camo the organisation of the
ronipmles, which brought great wealth
lo the Mnores. Beattle a 2,onn then he-
1 c.imc JI0U.O00 through Investments,
Chli'ilKO Wnmnii. lletiorleil I'.ie
eilteil, Alive ll lid Well,
Wahiiiniiton, July 50, Despatches to
the Slate Department fioin Vienna to
day brought word that Miss Alice Ma-s'li-yk,
the former Chicago settlement
worker reported executed In Austria,
was alive and well,
"he Is In prison charged with at
tempting to aid her father to escape
Anstilati military sen Ire, It was said
thnt if Miss Masaryk Is not an Ameri
can citUen the United Stals cannot
interfere,
FIRST N. H. CAMPS AT LAREDO.
Col, Mnnann Declines In flevenl lie
port nn slniillnlliin.
Laiikpo, Tex., July 50. Col. Edward
Mimsnii, personal representative of Gen.
I'uiislon, completed a shoit survey of
saullary condlllons nf the Stntes troops'
camps In the Laredo section to-day an
the outcome of tho requeat by a locnl
oiHuiiUatlnn of citizens that 11,000 sol
diers bo removed elsewere on account
of alleged unsanitary conditions. Col.
Muneon refused to discuss his report.
Tho First New 'Hnmpshlie Infantry
and a battery of Held artillery arrived
here to-day and went Into camp,
t
inlrer of the llrltlsh nnvv. Ills famous
' blood Is thicker than water" speech at
the (Sulldh.ill several years ago Is still
flesh In the memory of naval olllcers
lien- ann abroad. The Navy Department
at that time called fur explanations and
''"''V Kims stood by hl guns. He was
autloned, however, about nubile coin
imnt that might arouse the Ire of tier
many Secretary Danleli momentarily forgot
this when he ashed rapt Sims for a
statement which could be published and
irlven mer to the lloue Naval Affairs
rommlttee. rapt Hlni"'s statement has
rearhd here all right, but It has not
I hn,H rti.lu imUlIn Simfnlnr,. llfi,,lla !
KILLS WIFE AND ARMY
OFFICER IN MOTORCAR
Husband Shoots Woman and
Major M. C. Butler, Sixth
Cavalry, at Alpine, Tex.
At.rtNK. Tex.. July 20. Major M. C.
Hjller of the Sixth United States Caval
ry, and Mrs. II .1. Spannell. with whom
he was out riding In an automobile, were
ehot and killed this .iftirnoon by II. J.
Spanuell, husband of the woman.
Immediately after the shooting Span
nell went to Jail and surrendered. Mrs.
Spanuell was the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. John Holland, well known resi
dents of Alpine. Spannell Is the pro
prietor of the Holland Hotel here.
.' ifinviu.it, Tenn., July 20. Mrs. M.
r Butler, wife of Major Butler, who
before her mariisge was Mw Margaret
Howell, daughter of the lata M. B.
Iluuell, one of Nashvlllo's leading law
yers, left this city a short time ago to
Join her husband on tli border They
were married eleven )ears ago and theie
Is one child. M. C Butler, Jr.
Major Butler was ,orti in South Caro.
I.i.a. He was graduated from Wet I
Point In 1SS!. During tlm Spanish-'
American war he was unpointed rhlef of ,
the urduance ottlce with brevet rank of
Major, anil became a Major of regulars
June 30, 1912, He was 5J enrs old
AERIAL PATROL IS DENIES.
Xnnl Vessels ut In Watch More.
inentM nf llenlaehlatiri
Wasiunhton, Julv 20 It was said at
the Navy Department to-day that thei
armorid cruiser North Carolina had been
' of Hiitlsh warships known to be waiting
for tier nrr tlie Mrginia Capes. Secretaiy I
Daniels said the shlfi'M presence had no
connection with the Biihinarlne's piospec-
live movements.
LIGHT ON BRITISH WAR COST.
McKennn Snja :!!, DIM), 000 n Dag
Cover F.verytlilnK-
1-o.vnoN, July 20. While the British
Government Is expending (!, 000,000
($30,000,000) dally, this Is not all going
for war, Beglnald McKennn, Chancellor
of the Exchequer, explained to-day In
the House of Commons,
The rate at which American securities
have been sold to the Government for
the purpose of regulating exchange ntid
the rate at which Great Britain's allies
and dominions are drawing upon tho
ndvauces made to them are the factors
which have resulted In exhausting the
Chancellor's borrowing powers .sooner
than expected, he said.
Mr. McKenna told a deputation that
the Government Is now spending at the
rate of ISO.000,000 ($100,000,000) a
year on pensions nnd allowances, and
that the amount was growing every
wi ek.
DISCUSS COLLABORATION.
Government ('ontriila Operations,
.Su Premier llrland.
Paris, July 20, The question as to
the extent of Parliamentary collabora
tion in the conduct of the war was again
discussed In the Chamber of Deputies
to.d.iy Commenting on the report sub
milled by Deputy Tardleu as to the
powers hitherto granted Parliamentary
war committees, Premier llrland, while
desiring fraternal collaboration between
Parliament and the Government, ob
Jected lo It as between Parliament and
the chief command.
Only Hie Government, he sad, could
collaborate with the latter,
"In short," said the Premier, "Hie
Government controls the military opera
tions and the Commander In Chief, while
the Chamber controls the acts of the
Government,"
GAS LEAK; MATCH; 3 BURNED.
nronklyn llrnuglat, Neighbor I'p
stnlra nnd MhIiI Injured.
Bernard Itappaport, a druggist at 2015
Clarendon road. Brooklyn, Investigated a
gas leak yesterday morning with a
lighted match and as a result he, his up
stairs neighbor, Victor Hyde, and the
lalter'a mnld, Hose Wechler, were burned
on tho face and arms,
Miss Wechler In pulling an electrlt
cord In her room disconnected a gas
tube attached to the fixture. Her
screams brought Eyde and Jlappaport
to her aid.
GERMAN MOVE FOR
PEACE IS GROWING
Appeal for Backing of Chan
cellor's Idea Signed by
Nolcd Men.
IlKlil.tS', July in. via London, July 2.
The Herman National rommlttee for'
Peiurlng an Honorable Peace has
drafted an address which will be pub-1
llshe.1 In a few days calling for support j Oov,rnm,nt tn annolmc.P tlttt )t will
of Chancellor von Betbinann-Ilot weg y(i)(1 tQ ))(r ,,ctmm, nr Rn nveM,rR.
and the Influencing of public "P"""" ,on f thp saKtrous campaigns at the
tiiwatd moderate pence nlm. "
The .Ign.itures to the nddres indicate, Dardanelles ntid In Mesopotamia. In so
the importance of the movement. They doing they brought forth the revelation
include Prince von Wedel, (leneral-Ad- thnt there has been setlous trouble on
Juinnt to the llmperor; Philip Helneken. the Indian frontier.
director of the Njvth (lermnn Lloyd. The Marquis of Crewe, Lord Presl
Paul von Schwalnck. director uf the dent of the Council, replying to Lord
Ilechrod( c Bank; Prof. Adolph liar- Vemye's severe denunciations of the
nark and many Important maniifac- .Vesopotnmlnn cnmpalgn, mndo the ad-tur-rs.
meroriints. professors and others. 1 mission that from December, 13M, to
The nddr outlines the alms of the , Sejitember, ISIS, there had been no less
committee, steering n course between the thnn seven sepatate attacks, "some of a
pacifists and the P.in-Ormati", which It, very formidable character." on the
cli.iracterl7.es ne "annexation lunacy. . ,0rlhwestern frontier of India.
P emphasizes the fact that the (t)iitro- Ulv,j L()yd (orB(. ln t(le uouso cf
versy of the last few- weeks, between the ("min, revealed that It was a cum
peace advocates and the annexation s s ,,ol.,om division of authority between
has had a harmful effect and that It l(ti, ifoln(, tSovernment and Hie govern
necessary for the moderates to create , n1om , Idh wh(.h
was largely re-
uniform views concerning a basis of ( Bp(1H,l8 for thfl brcakl,(lwn wlllcj, rv.
PP"Thls end can be attained." says the i to the British arm,
address, "only by rlgorou-ly avoiding These 'two admissions wore the ftrst
Imd rffl-n" -bnT''r
outgivings of the Pan.tierman League. . "" 'iaH Riven to reports of trouble ln
The kejnoto for such a peace was"u"a-
struck by the Chancellor's speech In' Inquiry I Promised.
March. 191. In which he mentioned the was d . of ,n both
extension of the eastern frontier and ,,, K(lw(ird , , , ,
substantial guarantees on the west. ,v,mVM , ad . nolle." tlVlt thev
i would move an liuiulry Into thn conduct
irom r leiu .mhiimhu ihi iiuiuciiouik.
"Without the attainment of both ob-1
Jerts there can be no peace and no
in.n.l.,,, of .K.ei.t.ie.1 errlinrv. The
taak of the National Committee must be "S . ... . m.n". "M f1" ov''''ne"t
to assist In fixing n definition of 'sub- ""1 I"""11"'-' tne Investigations, select
stantlal guarantees' and the delimiting iMp, a , 'PW members from eavh house
nt fr.iii.r" i and also an Australian representative.
.
A-rtvn-Brrv tttnnn nrrc niTiinr
niiuiiu ttjv ajxj iii uain,
Found Dead by Ills Wife, Was,
Was Ills I.atr Partner.
William H. Wood. CO, a lawjer. wis
found dead by his wife "In the bathroom
of his home at S."0 West Seventy-Ill -.t
btreet yesterday, Oas was escaping from
two Jets of a small stove. The police
said his death was a suicide, but Coroner
L-...,k.r. s.,.1.1 ti ..:.-V". " "Hni.vr iov ireai
h-winV.
and the aitornev had bee. erlo lv .
for .om. m
for some tme.
He was born at Stanford, Dutchess
county, N. V in 185B, nnd while teach-
lit school studied law, being admitted
. .1... I...- I.. ,i.-i. ii.. i.
'r-a k nuilllllfU
u i..f- i.n, ,,, .a,,., 1 1 v, a iti'ui
Attorney-General In 1!H'3. and the fol-, """ " we "a" show n
lowing jear established at 2 Jlectorour """'""K"' Islam as a whole might
street the law tlrm of Wood Wo id I "'ir Tn deflected ngalnst us."
in p.iiinersmp wun ins wile, iinrilelte. -"' " "' -i"'""' me m-i rn .uuicks on
M. J, Wood, whom he married In 11)03. ' "", Indian frontier, but did not give de
He told Ills wife yesterday he Intended tnii concerning any of them,
to arrange with the Democratic State Befote passing Judgment on the lo
am! National committees a speaking dlan ottkl.ils, he contended, it would be
tour for Wilson throughout New Kng- necessary tu i onslder the jiartlcular svs-
land, while Mrs, Wood was to go stump-
ing for Hughes,
500 SEE RESCUE OF GIRL.
neither Snres Flxprrt Nnliiimer I
Surf at Soolh Hraeh.
Viva hundred visitors on the Winl
vvtilk at South Beach, St.iten Island, Just j "a'd everything lKissible now Is being' soine advance with Infantry on the i t
before the heavv shower vesterdav after- ''' '" Mesopotamia, bank of the Mciise South i f Fu i'
noon, enw Miss Cella Wilson, It, of Lloyd George made a long explanation, thej took a German post with lot) pr s
Ellznbethpnrt, N. J rescued from "f causes of the disasters In the i oners.
drowning, , Eat. There weie iilenty of supplies, he i vtirenll'r I. Drive
Miss Wilson, who Is an expert swim- said, but the tianspoit system failed,
mer and not afraid of sharks, was about The division of authority which caused . A correspondent at the H:i.-li fio t
a quarter of a mile from the 'shore t trouble has been swept away, he , in France telegraphs;
when she was seized with cramps Her said, and vigorous steps havo been taken i "'The Fieii'h ate a't.n kli.c " Tills
cries for help attracted Charles Drurly I to piovide proper transput t ' was the message tlmt the tiipld the of
who was swimming two hundred yards .... i . i their "R" nnd the thunders uf their he-ivv
from the girl. Miss Wilson was about H""'rlann In I ommniid. KUn i.t.mght I,. ml the vallej of f,.j
to sink for the third time when Drurly I For the first time he revealed that rAI''' ''I'1'- ""' Hrltis'i
caticht bold of her hair He brought In the becinulnir of nneratlons In iim I lines.
lier ashore unconscious and she was
removed to the S. B. Smith Infirmary
CYCLONE SHUNTED TO SEA.
Trnnsll ( rentes Stronu N'ortbcnst
erly Winds In .' Vnrk,
The West Indian cyclone thnt smashed
,,., . ..i r.,. i u.,,,1.
thing, down towntd Georgia and Smith '
Carolina tne other day was shunted off
aroiina tne otner nay was snunteii on
XjJ'V'rT.J
...... .... .....
matter of conjecture by the Weather
Bureau. At 10 o'clock It was supposed
to be "at sea off the New Jersey coast "
Its transit created In tills neighborhood
strong northeastcily winds, Ii Is likely
that It will pass closer to lip. New Eng.
land coast nnd endnnger shipping up
that vvn In the next twenty. four bouts,
New York appeared to he altogether out
of the danger zone last night,
Tho fotecast for this day culls for
strong northeastcily, shifting to noith
westerly winds, with showers.
BIG SHIP WORKS TO BE SOLD.
.V. V. Men unllntlng fnr St. CUIr "i'rc"',V "r "'at it would
.-. ...ii 3 h innns mr.i.nair, ngalimt public Inteiest to vublls),
l.nul. leering Plant. them, allhough they reflected In no way
PnnT Ht'lins, Mich,, Julv 20 It was I ""' t'eneral, who was not In charge
learned to-day that negotiations for tho "f '"' " fJ'nnttvK of operations.
purchase of the St. Clair plant of the Ihcrefore four o,- five men "who could
Great Lakes Engineering Works, which'1"' ,r,,K,ed with the iiumt contldentlal in -
has hi en Idle six venrs. may be cniistim. ' formation " will conduct the Inquiry So1
mated In New York within a few days.
A. l . Pessano, president of the Great
Lakes Engineering Works, said he would
bo In New York to-murinw to take up
negotiations.
It Is understood that Pope Bros, and
Chrppeii of I Wall street, the prospec
tive purchasers, are acting for the
United Stntes Government or have u
contract with the Government for tho
manufacture of submarine chasers.
KILLED LOOPING THE LOOP.
en,,.!.,. i"i,Bh, M,b-i,.e,
Falls Great Dlatance,
Lonpon, July 20, Flight Sub-Lleul.
Douglas Wlilttler, a Canadian, was killed
to.diiv uhlle Inoiilnir thn limn nl ...
nltltudo over Hie Isle of Tli.tnet. Kent,
intriPK tint nianoMivie ttie machine be-
came uiunanage.ible and fell to the
gioimd, wheie It was ainiished.
llnldlng eiiprllii Wrecked.
Iiniiov, July 20, The Zeppelin
which raided Blga recently was hit sev
eral times by Ituaslan nnll-alrcraft guns
and wrecked near Tukum, according to a
despatch from Cologne. The majority
of the crew of tho airship was saved
nnd Qcrmaa engineers rescued the engine.
BRITAIN TOLD OF 7
ATTACKS ON INDIA
''Some of Very Formidable
Character,' Marouis of
bLOYI) OKOItUE TALKS
Disasters in East Blamed to
Divided Authority In
qiiiry Ordered.
I.onuon, July 20. Hlr Kdward Carson
and Lord Wemys to-day forced the
, ,). ..... ,,-.M, n-
.'.J,,,? , ,!'?", "e.tore llr
" "l "" t"u',1 f e moved to-day Prime
1 Ml'dHer Asqulth announced In the
the tatter In re octillion of the part the
1 Australian troops played In the III
starred Dardanelles venture. Sir Kd-
ward Carson then withdrew hla motion.
Lord Wemyss severely denounced the
conduct of the Mesoputamlan operations
In the House of Lords and the M.ircUlH
of Crewe made a reply for tho Govern
ment uml iiiude the same announcement
.oncerning the governmental Investiga
tion. In the critical moments of August,
imi 1. ...... 1 ..... ... '
" ,o. Ten h" ..pmoUni ..osi.
' L"n . "'. V"" t erslun Oulf and prevent
I llT "ecaraiinn or a noty war. he aald.
our presence there," he continued
believe saved the emplrn from the an
proach of a great disaster. We had tn
I ., ....
i"osiiier me grent Alo.-lelll Uollll j t on of
. . . ... .
tem or military nrganiratlnn there
Lord runner followed, remarking thnt
lie uiougnt land Kitchener made a mis.
take In the military changes he Intro-
i luc.-d in India and he could not help '
iiunuing tne misrortntie or the Mesojio.
tunilan cnmpalgn was hugely due toi
these changes. Earl Currant. Lord Pric e
'S. r':"' alt olllcial despntrh whli Ii
i:ast sir William It Bolieilson, chief'
of the Imperial Staff, directed the mill- 1
tary operations, while the Indian gov-'
eminent supplied the forces and the '
commander lu chief In India was ie-
sponsible for tho supplies,
I'lnler a new nrrangmerit, I.lovd
George said, India will remain the pi in-
I pnI'itimitl"tn i .. V.''..,. . . ."''.T''
i continue to be .'idnilnlslen-l by the com- i
manner in tiller in India But the lat-
, , Instructions from!
i!"1'1 -sponsible to ,e Aiiny Cnuncil '
i n recaril to matteis or itei-umm.tl
s,t ,,,,1 -v. He will be nisied bv such
mcclH 8 ,, Army rmmcll feels' It do-
(.ri,hle to appoint
Thus, In effect. Gen
Ilobertsou and the Army Council will
nave complete charge of supplies and
transput t as well as of operations.
Illver Meumeis and light craft of vntl
mis kinds me being millt In Ktwl.uul for
transport use on the eastern front, lie
said, and artangeiiicnts have been made
fm the construction of a light railway
along a portion of the line of communi
cation. PaiM'is dealing with the ciinijialgn will
not see the light of day In spite of the
governmental Inquliy. Gen. Ilobertsou
that the investigation may not delay ne-
Hon the Sectetary expressed luie lint
tile House on Monday will carty t brunch
all Its stages the bill sanitlnnlup- the in
I niilrv.
J Austen Chamberlain. Secretaiy for
India, also spoke, mainly to defend t he
Indian Government from the chnige of
having llnanclally starved the Mesopo-
tumla expedition. .Mr. Chamberlain re
minded tho House of India's valuable
roiiliihutlops and aid In the war, quite
n part from the Mesopotamia expedition.
200 CHILDRENSEEWOMAN DIE
In Panic an si be I'alla Frnm Fonrlh
Floor Window,
Mis. Junes Fischer, 3a years old.
Plunged from the fourth lloor window
I , '
'""l "ig 11 ","'1 was Instantly killed.
' lw" ;u"dri'd ill Idrcu who were plav-
I init III lie ,ui rtiu lui udrn til I lie nniiii
Ing saw Ihe woman fall. She had
leaned out to call one of the joungstcrs
whom she wanted to send on an errand
uml had lost her bnlance,
The children ran out of the way of
the fulling woman and almost stalled a
panic. So dense became the crowd that
gathered around the house that the po
lice had dllllculty In keeping the ttrcet
clear,
V
.FRENCH GAIN ON
SIX MILE FRONT:
DRIVE GOES ON
Capture Fntire German
First Position on Line
of Three Miles.
2,1)00 PKISOXKUS APE
TAKKX ALONG SOMMK
North of the Pazentin
Loiincviil Sector British
Claim Big Advance.
TBEXCjMKS W)X IX
I) HAD OF THE NIGHT
Forces, Now Joined, Are At
tacking Teutons on
All Sides.
I'aiiif, July 20. Over a front of six
miles the French forces to-dn ad
vanced and held their guilts.
From Kstrees to tho height of Ver
mandovUIrFM they captured the cntlro
first Orrnan position. That Is a dls
tnnco of three milts. From Kstrece to
H.irleux, three tnllw further to tho
northeast, they took the llrat lino
trenches.
The olllcial announcement of theBO
successes adds that on feoth aides of I ho
Jtlver Somuie tho French touk 2,900
prisoners In the day's engagements.
South of the Sommc the French begun
their attack last night, and the War
Oil loo this afternoon made publio the in
sult, whljh was that all the first lino
trenches from Soyecourt to Barleux fell
Into their bauds.
Take Whole First Mac.
To-ulght It was announced that the
troops hnd pushed on, capturing tlm en
tire first line syMem of defence between
Hnyecourt and llatreos, and alto for some,
distance southwest of Soyeoourt, thus
taking advantage of the foothold galnc it
,i.. ..1..1.. i ... ...... . .,
"'"" -i'i'.weim, nowever. inev
have not yet advanced bejund the outer
! ti cliches between Kstrees and Barleuv.
On the ninth bank of the Somine somo
trenches In the HimUcourt sector were
taken In the night fighting. Ti.iy ex
tended from Hali'court-Miimeton to th
east of Hordecoiirt, along the i.ulway
from Combles to Clery, In this opera
tion 400 pllsonera were takon. A Ge -man
aeroplane vvaa luoimht down east of
l'erolllie.
Heavy bombardment continues on the
Avacoiirt and Chattancuiirt se.-tots f
tho Verdun front, and the French Ill.uH
"Arier inn King nine wniie tne iirnisii
,1r' second line In front of them,
1110 "''' "r l'r,''''h -nldiera on thn
ritslit of the British khaki advanced at
'lawn to piay ineir pan in i leveiop-
inent of Ihe allied plans, and the people
of the towns in Hie rear had the wel
come news at luncheon hour that they
weie already In occupation of German
trenches uoith of the Sommc and had
gained gioimd suiith uf the Summe.
"Meanwhile ttie Australians on a two
I mile front Is the Arnientlei cs-Neuve
, I'li.ine i, i'- on inn c I i.l 1 1 ill lie iluueyt
' trench tald ever undertaken. Us extent
making it a new departute Alter cut-
"l,K "", wire ny snen uni iney rusue.i
1,10 German trenches, doing what damage
they could by bombing mid hand-to-hand
lUiitlng before retlilng lo their own
trenches.
(Inns I'.icei.sl.iulv Active.
"During the Freinli iiltnrk the guns
on both sides were iintlrlngl.v lm- .
Having made Loiigiieval nnd tlnir po i-
I tlon In Delcllle uiind sei'llle. Ihe III It, I,
stormed the High wood, nnd In bin
i these woods nnd tint Melds hetwet , the
front ami the village of Giilllem . 1 1 r t u
. Germans, mussing fresh fonvs brought.
from Verdun since their whole t,i' 'I. .1
situation In the Sumiuc t. gli' nnio
' endangered, icslsted the P I ,i wlm
'the savage itetei initiation v '.
j further high ground, vvhi t en
, more than knolb. and mill! ; r i n I I
hat towed h shells anil vvli pp i h. h t
lets, who-e loss leaves lon irin ' i f
position tn the liiltlsli.
, "The Germans ate stil' i i
guns, presumably from V
ftom the high woods to tin J
tiny they sicnicd lo be aa
' preponderant ISrlllsii Ihe '
i power tlicv had.
"Among the British troops
engaged are sonic nulls o
tains," England's little men.
Inches III hclglll and under, whin
Kltiiiencr i-ullsted in special bait M
Vlliluets Vre (innil I'lul.ters
"The went In with al' the
'i ni rn mi
I"1'1
f a i ...,'s of iix f ml guards
i men, nnd the audacUs of the bantam
cock, which Ik their svmbol Whim It
conies to stalking a iiriciiliio gun or
sniping from a shell ct ,tcr they ate leva
exposed than men nf ordinary height,
and as thej say, u bullet they the goes,
as far ami Is as deadly as one from a
giant's rifle.
"A cavtiiieil diary fioin the line Hun
ilicd and Nineteenth Itiglment of tlm Oiiu
Bundled ntid I'.lghty-llfth German ill
vision, which was rushed fioin the
Champagne lo tho Homme the second s
of July, shows Unit out of l.loo men of
one battalion, 120 ale hit, and lem than
half the men of the other two battailous.
The write! complains that all lliis Ins.,
was auffcred without the men really luvs,
4svJsi41JGatl
