THE ARIZONA REPXJBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
ICAN
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JULY 21, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO 64
IRFP
W SAYS
IM ATTACK
British And French
KsUH'Visrvvi
e Their Gains Along The Somme
YARDS WHILE FRENCH TIKE
GERINFRSTLNE POSITIONS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON, July 21, The official statement issued about midnight from
British headquarters in France reads:
"North of the Bezantin-Longueval line we gained about 1,000 yards in
the face of stubborn oooosition. Heavy fiqhtinq still continues in the
northern outskirts of Longucval village and in Delville wood.
Heavy fighting continues on the Somme front. The war office an
nounced today that the British had nained around in Del villewood and
Longueval.
North of the Longueval-Basentin position the British pushed forward
their line.
The statement follows:
At 2:50 o'clock in the afternoon, in Dellville wood, and Lonugueval, we
regained a little more ground. The struggle in these areas continued
"North of our Longueval-Bazentin position we this morning pushed
forward our lin, cautpuring some prisoners and a gun.
"East of ihe Leipsic redoubt, we made a substantial advance last night
"Elsewhere in the main battle area, there has been only artillery fire
since the last report and no alterations in the positions."
I The British steamer Virginia, which
was sunk by a German submarine sev-
I eral days ago, was first shelled by the
!sui mull me in u. nati-iiuui i.iia.-w,
cording to Keuter's Malta correspon
. dent. The Virginia was finally com
pelled to halt, when her funnel had
been blown away, making the engine
room and stoke hold untenable.
The submarine immediately torpe
doed the vessel, the correspondent adds
and continued shelling her while the
men were getting into the boats.
Twenty-five got off safely, but twen
ty-five others went down with the ship
while endeavoring to release a second
boat from the falls.
The captain of the irginia was
saved after being in the water for
nearly an hour.
A dispatch to Reuter's Telegraph
company from Copenhagen says:
"According to German newspapers
Admiral von Holtzendorff, retired, has
been appointed to a new admin istra
tive post in the naval service, which is
regarded as a preliminary step toward
an active command. Admiral von
Holtzendorff is a close friend of Ad
miral von Tirpitz, and his appointment
is being watched in connection with a
possible renewal of Germany's subma
rine activity.
Teutons Being
Attacked On
East and West
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 20. While a strong
but unsuccessful German counter of
fensive is still being fought out on the
British front, the Teutonic armies find I
themselves again the object of a simul
taneous attack on both eastern and
western fronts. The recent successful
advance having brought the British
into line with the French at Harde- j
court, the French offensive, which has
been for some time in preparation, has
been renewed energetically on both
sides of the Somme on a front of about
five miles thus far successfully.
Official dispatches from the British
and French headquarters tonight show
a further advance by both armies.
The British pushed forward their
line about 1,000 yards north of the
Razentin-Longueval sector and are
still fighting fiercely with the Germans
in the outskirts of Longueval and in
the Delville wood.
The French, having renewed their
offensive, captured a considerable
stretch of German trenches in the
neighborhood of Estrees and in en-
Capture German Positions
PARIS. July 20. The French forces
have captured the entire first line Ger
man positions extending from Estrees
to the height of Vermandovillers, ac
cording to the official statement issued
gagemet.ts on both sides of the river I by the war office tonight. They also
have taken nearly 3,00V additional
prisoners.
At the same time, according to Rome
reports, the violent Russian offensive
has been resumed in the Carpathians,
at Kovel, Vladimir-Volynski, and in the
Riga sector. Unofficial dispatches
from Petrograd say that the second
stage of the battle for the possession of
Kovel is continuing with extreme vio
lence. General Brussiloff has brought
up crushing forces from th Stokhod
(Continued on Rage Three)
have taken on both sides of the river
about 2,900 prisoners in today's en
gagement.
Today's official communication fol
lows: "On both sides of the Somme
our infantry, this morning, attacked
German positions and gained notable
advantages.
"North of the Somme we captured
enemy trenches from Mamelon-Harde-court
as far as the river, and carried
our line clear to the east of the narrow
road which runs from Combles to Clery.
n-
SOMETHING NEW
TO THINK ABOUT
SAN FRANCISCO, July 20 A
teapot tempest that looked for a
time as if it might keep the San
Francisco members of the Worn-
en's Navy League from partici-
pating in the preparedness parade j
here next Saturday was forgotten
today when several of the mem- j
hers received anonymous warn-
ings threatening them with "ex- j
termination" if they iwrsisted in j
their military enthusiasm and
marched in the parade. According
to the federal authorities more j
than 200 of the anonymous warn-
ings. hand printed on postal cards, j
have been intercepted at the post- j
office. A few of them escaped j
the vigilance of the sorters and
were delivered. The earth were
signed "Kmployees Protective
League."
I
D
POSTMASTERS
HEAR MESON
SHAPING TROOPS INTO
AN EFFICIENT BODY;
CAUSING
DELAY
BAD
SAYS REDMOND
T T
(Continued on Page Two)
LAFOLLETTE DELAYS PASSAGE
OF SENATE NAVAL MEASURE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 20. John Redmond,
the nationalist leader, made public to
day a memorandum which he sent to
Premier Asqul'.h and David Lloyd
George, the secretary for war, on Tues
day, in which he declared that the de
lay in making public the text of the
Irish bill and the irritation caused by
Lord Lansdowne's recent speech had
created a very serious situation in Ire
land. He adds:
"In my opinion any further delay
whatever In producing and proceeding
with the bill will make a settlement on
the lines laid down in the terms sub
mitted by Mr. Lloyd George quite im
possible. When these terms were
originally submitted to us we were
strongly urged to use all possible dis
patch in consulting our supporters in
Ireland. It was pressed upon us that
the matter was one of extreme urgency
that from all points of view it was vit
al that the settlement should be
pushed through quickly, and we were
told that not only Irish but great im
perial interests we erat stake.
"It is now more than three weeks
since we did our part and obtained the
assent of our friends in Ireland In the
face of very great difficulty as the pro
posed terms were far from popular.
Since then little or no progress has
been made and for some mysterious
reason the matter, which five weeks
ugo was so urgent, now hangs fire.
"I therefore, feel it my duty to urge
upon the government that further de-
ijlay will be fatal and place on record
my conviction any proposal to depart
from the terms agreed upon, especially
in respect to the strictly temporary
provisional character of all the sec
tions of the bill, will compel us to de
clare that the agreements, on the faith
of which we obtained the assent of our
supporters in Ireland, has been depart
ed from and is at an end."
A meeting of the Irish party has
been summoned for Saturday when the
situation will be taken under consideration.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 20 Senator La
Follette again delayed passage of the
naval bill today, continuing until a
few minutes before adjournement the
attack he began yesterday against the
measure. As soon as he concluded the
senate defeated, 44 to 8, his amendment
to prohibit use of the navy , to collect
private debts or enforce claims of
American citizens or corporations. A
substitute by Senator Norris to prevent
such employment of naval vessels until
court procedure had been exhausted
and arbitration denied, also was de
defeated. In a seven-hour speech. Senator La
Follette contended that the big finan
cial interests of the country centered
in two great Wall street groups known
as the Morgan and Standard Oil Com
pany. Speaking on his amendment
the Wisconsin senator declared he had
been informed on good authority that
General Carranza was negotiating
agreements along those lines with
Latin-American countries and later
would ask the United States to enter
into it.
The proposed naval program, Sena
tor La Follette declared, meant the in
auguration of a policy to build a navy
as great or greater than Great Brit
ain's within the next ten years.
"But when we have done that, what
then?' he continued. "When you
build, England and Germany will
build more. You will drive them to it
and after you have spent your $315,
000,000, you will Just find yourselves In
a new place to star. Your only limit
then will be the limit of taxation upon
the American people. Such a course
violates all precedents and principles
of the government."
After adjournment tonight Senator
Swanson, in charge of the bill, said he
knew of no other long attacks to be
made against it, and expected its
passage tomorrow. Following the vote
Senator Chamberlain will ask that the
army appropriation bill be taken up.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 20. President
Wilson was the guest of honor tonight
at the annual banquet of the National
association of Postmasters. Several
cabinet officers.also were present. The
annual convention, which virtually
concluded its formal business with re
election of officers, will close tomor
row.
In an address at the afternoon ses
sion, Anthony Caminetti, commissioner
of immigration, urged cooperation of
postmasters with the labor depart
ment's employment bureau.
"If each postmaster will cooperate,"
he said, "we will have a free employ
ment bureau in every little town and
hamlet. The postoffice should be a
place where every citizen should come
to do his business with his "Uncle
Sam" and every citizen who wants a
job or who has a job to give."
The philosophy of his political faith
which he termed "service and unself
ishness," was lelineated by President
Wilson tonight in an address to about
700 postmasters, virtually all his own
appointees. He also touched upon the
subject of peace, but only to say "that
in no other country are the processes
of ieaee so free to move."
Introduced by postmaster Selph of
St. Louis, presiding "as the protector
of American citizenship," the presi
dent wa.s given an ovation lasting more
than five minutes. In prefacing his
remarks he said he understood his au
ditors were virtually all democrats and
that, therefore, he was more free to
say certain things than he hight other
wise have been.
"As I look about upon you," the pres
ident said I gather many or the im
pressions of the last three years. Be
cause many things have occurred and
the thing I have been most interested
in is organizing this government for
service of the country.
"Most of you, I am told, if not all o:
you, bear commissions from the pres
ent administration. That sets me free
to say some things that I might not
otherwise."
When he started a sentence a moment
later with "if you're all democrats"
he was drowned out by cries of "we
are; we are."
"There is only one way of holding
the confidence of the American public,"
the president resumed, "and that is by
deserving it and I know by my inter
course with the postmaster general his
single object has been to make the
postoffice of more service to the peo
ple of the United States than it has
ever been before.
"I have no interest in the political
party, except as an instrument of
achievement. I cannot imagine how a
man can be interested in a party that
lias no aspirations and a program to
be worked out. I inherited my democ
racy. But it wouldn't stay in my blood
long if the red corpuscles didn't have
something to do. And if the democratic
party will bear all Its efforts to under
stand the United States and serve it,
it will be continued in power so long
as it practices that devotion."
Declaring that selfishness was the
antithesis of public service because
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, July 20. Although
convinced that the diplomatic negotia
tions now in progress will terminate in
a settlement of the differences between
Mexico and the United States and that
orders soon will be reecived for the
gradual withdrawal of General Per
shings forces, staff officers here are
continuing the work of shaping the big
body of men into an efficient body.
No orders for the withdrawal of
General Pershing's force have been
received, but their receipt will be no
surprise. As a further addition to the
fighting force along that part of the
border over which the expeditionary
force moved, however, five regiments
are to be stationed at Deming, N. M.,
as a strategic move, General Funston
announced today.
The movement of guardsmen has
been somewhat lessened since the or
der to complete the equipment was re
ceived. One New York regiment, the
Third, passed through here today on
the way to Brownsville with 1,800 men
Field communication is to be facili
tated by the adoption of the motor for
operation of the dynamos. Several of
these new motorcycles arrived today
and were tried out by the signal corps.
WITH CRUTCH AT i
SIDE SAY VILLA
IS LN COMMAND
MEXICO PROPOSES
AT NIAGARA
ERENCE
FALLS BETWEEN
10
T
Republican A. P. Leasea Wire
MEXICO CITY, July -20. The details
of Mexico's proposals for a peaceful
solution of difficulties, with the
United States were made public to
night by the foreign office when a
copy of the note was sent to the
Washington government July 11 was
given to the newspapers for publica
tion in tomorrow morning editions.
The note suggests the naming of
three commissioners by each govern
ment, the commissioners to meet at
some neutral point to discuss the
question of withdrawal of the Ameri
can troops now in Mexico and Ihe
drawing up of an agreement providing
terms for the reciprocal crossing of the
frontier by the troops of either nation
and the investigation of the origin of
the parties who have raided American
border towns for the purpose of def
initely fixing responsibility for them.
In commenting on the note tonight,
foreign office officials said that as it
had not yet been answered by the
Washington government they consid
ered it their duty to the Mexico peo
ple to make it public that Mexicans
might know what effort their govern
ment was making toward a peaceful
solution of the pending difficulties.
It has been learned from unofficial
sources that the conference probably
ill be held in Niagara Falls. The
COAL PRODUCTION INCREASES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, July 20. Of the increased
coal production during the first six
months of this year, 300,000 tons was
due to increased activities at the Col
orado Fuel and Iron Company steel
plant at Pueblo, it was stated by J. F.
Welborn, president of the company. In
this connection it was stated that fig
ures for the six months not yet com
pleted will show a large increase in
production of the Pueblo plant.
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Army Officer And
Woman Slain By
Woman 's Husban d
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE. July 20. A British
cargo steamer which anchored off the
Berth of the merchant submarine
Deutschland gave officials of the East
ern Forwarding company considerable
worry tonight. The British vessel is in
a position to observe any movement of
the submarine.
The searchlight of the Forwarding
company s tug Timmins was flashed
on the Britisher intermittently through
the night.
Captain Zach Cullison of the Tim
mins reported for duty aboard the tug
Marquis Of Crewe Defends
The Mesopotamia Campaign
fReoublican A. P. Leased Wirel .tended that before passing final judg-
LONDON. July 20.-Replying to seJ"- " he Indian officials it would
' . , . . i be necessary to consider the particular
vere denunciations of the Mesopotamia system or miiitary organization there,
campaign by Lord Wyiness, in intro-1 Lord Cromer, who followed, admit
ducing his motion in the House of ted tnat the Marquis of Crewe's state
Lords demanding an investigation, the ment changed the 'aspect of the de
Marquis of Crewe, lord president of ,ate. He did not desire to stir the
the council, said that in the critical . embers of a rather heated controversy
moments of August, 1914, it was im- 0f a few years ago. He thought Kit
perative for Great Britain to reassert j chener had made a mistake in the mil
her paramount position in the Persian ' itary changes he had introduced in In
gulf and prevent the declaration of a ia, and while it would be a great ex
holy war. aggeration to say that the misfortune
"Our presence there," he continued, I 0f the Mesopotamia campaign was the
"I believe saved the empire from the ' outcome of these changes, and could
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ALPINE, Tex., July 20. Major M
C. tiutler of the Sixth United States
cavalry and Mrs. H. J. Spannell, with
whom he was out riding in an outomo
bile, were shot and killed this after
noon by H. J. Spannell, husband of the
woman.
Immediately after the shooting
Spannell went to the jail and surren
dered.
Mrs. Spannell was the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. John Holland, well known
residents of Alpine!
Spannell, who is the proprietor of
the Holland hotel here, had been under
suspicion of friends today on account
of his strange actions preceding the
tragedy. They said he did not act nor
mally.
approach of a great disturbance."
He referred to the difficulties con
fronting the Indian government and
said that from December, 1914 to
September following there had been
no less than seven separate attacks,
some of a very formidable character,
on India's northwest frontier and con-
not help thinking that they largely
contributed to that misfortune.
In response to many questions as to
whether matters now were satisfac
tory. Earl Curzon, lord privy seal.
read an official despatch testifying
that everything possible was being
done in connection with the campaign.
Wife on Way to Border
NASHVILLE, Tenn., July 20. Mrs.
M. C. Butler, wife of Major Butler,
who before her marriage was Miss
Margaret Howell, daughter of the late
M. B. Howell, Sr., one of Nashville';
leading lawyers, left this city a short
time ago to join her husband on the
border. They were married eleve
years ago and there is one child, M
C. Butler, Jr.
El
Son of Gen. Ben Butler
EL PASO, July 20. Major Butler,
according to his army friends in
Paso, was a son of Benjamin F. But
Ier of Civil war fame, and had only re
cently been promoted to lieutenant
colonel.
names of the Mexican delegates have
not yet been made public, but it is
known that they will all be civilians,
and that the chairman of the com
mission will be a member of General
Carranza's cabinet well known in fi
nancial circles in the United States. It
is believed that the conference will
convene early in August. The note
which the foreign office says the
United States has never answered is
directed to Eliseo Arredondo, General
Carranza's agent at Washington. It
follows:
"By order of the citizen first chief
you will please transmit in writing to
the honorable secretary of state the
following note:
"I have the honor to refer to the
note of your excellency dated the
seventh of the present month, that was
transmitted by our confidential agent,
Arredondo, and to say that I have re
ceived instructions from the citizen
first chief of the constitutionalist ar
my in charge of the executive power
to suggest through you that his ex
cellency, Mr. President Wilson, the
idea of naming three commissioners in
representation of each government, to
meet at some place, to be later agreed
upon, for the purpose of holding a con
ference that the proposition of evacu
ation of American troops now occupy
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, July 20. Reports were
circulated in Juarez tonight that the
Carrazna garison at Toreon, Durango,
130 miles south of Parral, capitulated
today to the main Villista band, led
by the bandit chieftain. The rumors
continued that Villa, riding in a
coach, a crutch at his side, went into
the town and received the surrender
of the government commander. Neith
er General Francisco Gonzales, com
mander of the Juarez garrison, no-
General Geo. Bell, Jr., commandant
here, were inclined to place any cred
ence in the story. General Gonzales
said that the last reports of the prog
res cf the bandit campaign were con
tained in press dispatches from Chi
huahua City today.
Arrivals from Chihuahua City today
told of the Villa attack, on Parral a
week ago last Sunday. This failed,
they said, because one of the Villista
leaders disobeyed orders. The Villa
command, consisting of 600 men, was
divided into two columns, which were
to attack the city on opposite sides
simultaneously. One column attack
ed the town hours before the other,,
however, and was beaten off by the
garrison, which recovered in time to
hold the town against the assaults of
the second column, according to the
arrivals.
General Gonzales and Andres Gar
cia, Mexican consul to El Paso, ex
tended a public invitation to the peo
ple of El Paso today to attend a mili
tary and civic kirmesse to be held in
Juarez r.ext Sunday for the purpose
of raising funds for the benefit of
flood sufferers in the Querataro dis
trict in Mexico. It was announced
also that all Mexican soldiers in
northern Mexico had agreed to give one
day's p&y to the fund, while orders
were sent to all Mexican consuls in
the United States to contribute.
Manuel Bonilla, who was secretary
of the interior under President Mad
ero, in a telegram from New York
received here tonight by his son,
Manuel Bonilla, Jr., asked that . a
"most emphatic denial" be given to
the rumor that he was in New York
connection with the so-called
"legalist" movement, with which the
names of several well known anti-
Carrancistas have been connected.
Mr. Bonilla asked to have it stated
that his visit was pruely personal
and. that he was out of Mexican
politics.
(Continued on Page Two)
SUBMARINE STILL HERE
tonight He had spent several days
around the Virginia capes, presumably
getting a line on the movements of
foreign warships.
It was declared' the Deutschland
would carry no gold back to Germany
with her but that the Bremen, her sis
ter ship, might do so.
It has been reported to officials look
ing after the Deutschland's interests
that a force of strangers has been
keeping close tab here on the subma
rine's movements. Others are said to
be stationed at strategic points all
down the Chesapeake bay at the capes.
SLAYER OF PARKER AND BRIDE
DID NOT ESCAPE CIVILIAN POSSE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 20. Jose Val-
enzuela, a Mexican, admitted by his
wife to be the slayer of Mr. and Mrs.
William Parker at the Double Adobe
ranch, 55 miles southeast of Hachita.
N. M., early in June, did not escape
from the American civilian posse
which trailed him into Mexico, but
was killed in the wilds of Cajon Bo
nita, a "no man's land" between So-
nora and Chihuahua. This statement
reached here today from Hachita from
an apparently authoritative but confi
dential source.
The posse returned with the state
ment that Valenzuela had escaped
when they captured his wife and her
uncle, who had been his traveling
companions. The story of the finish of
the chase generally believed in Ha
chita is that several members of the
posse held the woman while the rest
pursued her husband, bringing him to
bay several miles further in the can
yon, killing him.
From the same source it was learned
that Valenzuela's wife had confessed
to members of the posse that her hus
band had been a soldier with Villa and
had been instructed by his chief not
to rejoin his band until he had killed
Parker, his wife and any other Amer
icans he could. That was the under
lying motive of the double murder,
she is said to have stated. She is said
to have alleged further that other men
had been similarly instructed by Villa.
Every woman has been sent out of
the Animas valley while the men are
reported to be watching closely all
Mexicans on the American side of the
border in that district.
Making For Mountains
CHIHUAHUA CITY, July 20. With.
his followers scattered into small
eroui.s. villa accompanied only by a
body guard of six men, i3 making
for the mountains of Durango, accord
ing to a report received here today
at the military headquarters.
General Trevino, in charge of the
operations, announced that this news
came from General Larreaga at Tepe
huana communicated through Gener
al Maycotte, The message stated
that government troops under Gener
al Matias Ramos were following a
hot trail after Vilia, while General
Larreaga is moving up with rein
forcements He hopes to overtake
Ramos by tomorrow.
Villa is said to be leading the flight,
getting a good start of bis followers.
Larreaga expresed the opinion that
the bandit intended to go into hid
ing until the hunt Dlew over. Gen
eral Trevino today reiterated hia
purpose of pursuing the bandits to
extermination.
Jose Isabel Robles, Canuto Reyes
and Hilario RoCrignez had another
long conference today with General
Trevino at headquarters, prepartory
to ' leaving for the state of San Luis
Potosi for the purpose of bringing
the Cedillos brothers and other for
mer Villistas into the Carranza army.
Other points are reported quiet.
To Southern Sonora
DOUGLAS, July 20. A force ot
approximately three hundred Mexi
can infantry and cavary, brought
northward from Cabullonax, and
(Continued on Page Two)
Name Board To Probe
Shooting Of Rodriguez
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, July 20 A board com
posed of Colonels J. B. Smiley,
Eighteenth infantry; E. St. J. Greble,
Sixth field artillery, and A. Foltz, First
cavalry, who was appointed by General
T. F. Davis to investigate the shoot
ing of Antonio Rodriguez, a Mexican,
by R. Tucker, Eleventh infantry, a
sentry, spent today taking testimony
in the case. They came to no conclus
ion, several witnesses remaining to be
heard tomorrow.
Several hours, of the morning were
spent by the board in the vicinity of
the scene of the shooting on Interna
tional avenue in Douglas. '
Residents were questioned and it
was unofficially stated tonight that it
appeared probable from the testimony
brought out that Rodriguez and his
companion, Enrique Pina, were on
American territory when the first two
shots were fired at them by Tucker
when they had refused to obey hia
command to halt. The last three shots
were fired after they had reached Mex
ican soil. It is supposed to have been
the last shot which wounded Rodri
guez. ,
The Mexican government was rep
resented at the hearing by an attor
ney, who presented official transcripts
of evidence taken by the Mexican au
thorities in their investigation. The
coat, shirt and undershirt of Rodriguez
all showing the bullet hole, a diagram
of the scene of the shooting made by a
Mexican engineer and purporting to
show that Rodriguez and Pina were
fifty yards south of the border when
the first shot was fired, were intro
duced in evidence.
