HARRISBXJRG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 167'
STRIKE SETTLE
STEP NEARER AS MEN
MEET PRES. MUSSER
Railways Company Head Confers With Committee of Strik
ing Employes; Entire City Hopes For Arbitration
Soon; Business Suffers All Along the Line; Men In
sist on Recognition of the Union
FIFTEEN CARS OPERATING TODAY;
SEVENTY DEPUTIES AID CITY POLICE
One Strike-breaker Declares He Was Blackjacked When
He Refused to Go to Work and Says He and Twenty
Others Were "Fooled" Into Coming Here; Arrest
Member 0/ New Crew For Alleged Insult to Girl
At 2 o'clock this afternoon President Frank B. Musser, of the
Harrisburg Railways Company, again met with a number of the
strikers who were in conference with him yesterday morning, to con
tinue the discussion of the strike situation.
On the result of this conference, it is believed, will rest the
settlement of the strike situation in the city. Both the strikers
and President Musser stated that it was to be a continuance of the
review of grievances and misunderstandings between the company
and the men "as individuals."
Union officials at noon said that the men were determined not
to go back to work until the union was recognized and the company
olficials agreed to arbitrate on the
John J. Thorpe, strike organizer and
leader, and vice-president of the
Amalgamated Association of Street
and Electric Railway Employes, said
that no demonstration will be given
to-night. He said the striking car
men were on regular picket duty dur
ing the day.
Fifteen Cars Out
Fifteen cars, all manned by alleged
strike-breakers were sent out on the
city lines and to Pine street. Steelton,
at 7.30 o'clock this morning and serv
ice continued during the day, with
few disturbances Superintendent of
Transportation Felix M. Davis said
that efforts will again be made to keep
the cars on the lines during the day.
More than 70 deputies sworn in by
Sheriff W. W. Caldwell are stationed
at various points througnout the city.
Only one call was received by the
police this morning, when a large
road roller got on the track at Four
teenth and Derry streets and was ap
parently blocking the car on that line.
After an investigation the officers re
ported that the driver of the road roll
er could not move nearer the curb
stone and let the car pass because or
the trees along the sidewalk.
It was reported at trie time that
bottles and stones were hurled at the
car crew by sympathizers at Four
teenth and Derry streets, but sheriff
deputies declared that there was no
truth in the report after an investiga
tion.
One motorman on a Steeiton car
was arrested on the information of a
woman residing in South Thirteenth
street, who alleged that the man in
sulted her. He was held for a hearing
this afternoon at police headquarters.
Demand Union's Recognition
Strikers said little to-day concern-
THE WEATHER
For Harrisburg anil vicinity) Gen
erally fair to-night and Saturday;
not much change In temperature.
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Gener
ally lair to-uight and Saturday;
somewhat cooler to-night in cast
portion; gentle to moderate went
and norlhuext wind*.
River
The suaquehanua river and prob
ably all Its tributaries! will con
tinue to fall slowly. \ stage of
About 3.0 feet Ik indicated for
HnrrUburx Saturday morning.
General Condition*
The storm from the South Atlantic
ocean ha* continued to move
northnard Home distance oft the
coa*t, and ix now central near the
Southern »« England coast. It
ha* caused unaettled weather
generally over the Eaxtern pnrt
of the country.
There ha* been a general fall of -
to » degree* in temperature over
the Lake Region and a sharp drop
in Southern Xew England. Boston
reporting a fall of 13 degree*
under the influence of easterly
wind*.
Temperature: S a. m., 74.
Sun: Seta, 4:55 a. m.; acts, 7:28
p. m.
Moon: Xew moon, July 3ft, 9:15
p. m.
River Stage: 3.7 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday'* Weather
Hlgheat temperature, HI.
Lowe*t temperature. 72.
Mean temperature, SO.
\orroal temperature, 75.
Getting used to strange
newspapers is like breaking in
• pair of new shoes—mighty
uncomfortable. Order the
Harrisburg Telegraph mailed
to yonr vacation address If
you would enjoy real comfort.
Six cents a week will bring
the Telegraph to you no mat
ter where jou are.
- u ~1 .j] L J J iwi pj
President Musser of Railways Company Meets Committee of Men
BY CARRIERS « CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
demands of the strikers.
ing the conference of yesterday morn
ing and the one of this afternoon. As
the officials of the company deal with
the men in the conference only as In
dividuals, a number of the union men
expressed opinions that the situation
was no nearer being bettered than on
Sunday when the strike was declared.
Thorpe, the strike leader, said that
as no one is riding on the cars being
operated by strike-breakers, he be
lieves the men have a number of
points to their advantage.
Jitneys again hauled hundreds of
people last night and early this morn
ing as car service was suspended
shortly after 4 o'clock because of the
outbreaks in various parts or the city.
Auto dealers and garage owners with
gasoline service stations reported a big
Increase in the sale of "gas" to the
operators of jitneys. The first horse
drawn bus appeared last evening at 7
o'clock, placarded with large signs,
"Jitney, all aboard."
Strikers Hold Meeting
A regular meeting of the strikers
was held at 2 o'clock this afternoon,
with all of the members of the union
present except the few who were in
session with President Musser. Vice-
President Thorpe and omer speakers
reviewed the situation, and told the
men that they should work hard for
their cause, but always maintain order.
He said that he was glad to hear
that so little trouble occurred this
morning, and asked the men to keep
the public sympathy with them, but
to urge sympathizers not to create
any trouble.
The crowds in the downtown section
were much smaller this morning and
the crews on the cars were only hoot-
[Continued on Page 15]
Arrest Strike-breaker
For Insult to Girl
Lewis Burkhart, aged 28, a strike
breaker from New York, was given a
hearing this afternoon at the police
station by Alderman James Deshong.
He was charged with disorderly prac
tice on complaint of Miss Bertha
Henry. 1255 South Thirteenth street.
Miss Henry told Chief of Police
Thomas J. Zeil that Burkhart insulted
her. She said:
"I was waiting at Cameron and
Hanover streets for a Jitney, intend
ing to come to Market street. The
car on which Burkhart was conductor
stopped, and I was invited to get on.
Burkhart said. 'Come get on. We will
give you a free ride, and buy you a
drink.' and then made an insulting
remark."
Patrolmen Hess and Balthaser took
Burkhart from his car when it reach
ed Market Square. Later someone
from the Railways Com
pany office put up $25 for the con
ductor's appearance at police court.
Business Hurt All
Along Line Is Report
Businessmen in general in the city
are opposed to a continuation of the
strike because of the loss in trade and
the inconvenience as a result of no
organized transportation ror the pub
lic.
According to a number of store
owners and managers, many of the
shoppers are afraid to come downtown
to buy because of the possibility ol
strike trouble and riots A loss in
trade has resulted according to the
owners.
In addition to a falling off in busi
ness. many of the employes living in
outlying districts and nearby towns,
have no assurance of transportation,
unless the business houses employing
them, nirnish autos so that they can
get back and forth from work. This is
an additional worry and inconvenience
as some of the stores are furnishing
their trucks for this purpose.
Employes, too. are complaining, as
many of them are unable to go home
for luncheon and must eat in down
town restaurants which have become
overcrowded.
HARRISBURG, PA., FRIDAY EVENING, JULY 21. 1916.
RAILWAYS HEAD AND STRIKERS' CHAIRMAN
HBP :
-
Slfe*
■ 1 ■ ■-: . ■ - .
PRESIDENT FRANK B. MUSSER HUGH L. McLAUGHLIN
President Frank B. Musser. of the Harrisburg Railways Company, this
afternoon met a committee of strikers headed by Hugh L. McLaughlin, presi
dent of Division No. 109, Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Rail
way employes, and chairman of the executive board, "as individuals." The
committee of strikers Included: Chairman McLaughlin. Thomas Clark. Robert
Emminger. Albert Allen. Elmer E. Hicks. Albert Yingst, Paul Kunkel and
Charles Schutt.
The photo of Mr. McLaughlin shows him in his uniform as a veteran of th«
Spanish-American war.
NEGOTIATIONS
PROGRESSING
Note of July 11 Proposes Ap
pointment of Body to Settle
Border Troubles
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C., July 21. —While
it was admitted at the State Depart
ment to-day that a note had been re
ceived from the de facto government
of Mexico under date of July 11 pro
posing the appointment of a joint
commission to settle border difficul
ties. officials refused to comment upon
the statement given out at Mexico
City last night purporting to present
the text of the communication.
It was learned from an authorita
tive source, however, that the Mexico
City text, thought substantially sim
ilar, is not identical with that pre
sented by Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican
ambassador-designate, on July 12.
Mr. Arredondo saw acting Secretary
[Continued on Page 15]
ASKS RULERS' AID
IN SENDING FOOD
Wilson Appeals For Co-opera
tion in Getting Supplies From
United States to Poland
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C.. July 21.—Per
sonal messages were sent by President
Wilson to-day to European rulers urg
ing their co-operation in getting food
supplies from the United States to the
starving people of Poland.
Efforts in the same direction direct
ed through the State Department to
the foreign officers of the countries in
volved have met with failure. The
President desires that France. Great
Britain and Russia allow the passage
of the foodstuffs and that Germany
and Austria-Hungary guarantee that
the food will be given to the civilian
population and not seized by the armies
of occupation.
Xo Definite Plan
The messages, which are identical,
are addressed to the King of England,
the President of France, the Emperor
of Russia, the Emperor of Germany
and the Emperor of Austria-Hungary.
It is understood thai no definite plan
is suggested, though the President inti
mates that the United States would be
glad to foster such a relief organ
[Continued on Page 4]
Ask School Board
For Use of Reily Street
Plot For Playground
Formal request of the school author
ities for the temporary use of the va
cant plot on Third street between Reily
and Harris street as a city playground
was made this afternoon by Park
Commissioner E. Z. Gross at the meet
ing of the building committee of the
school board. The request, it is un- ]
derstood. will be recommended to the
directorate for approval.
The plot is desirable according to
Commissioner Gross because it is ad- '
visable to do away with the Fourth
street grounds. This recreational
space is not only too small for the
growing crowd of youngsters who use
it daily but the noise of the children's
play has been more or less annoying j
to the railroad men who live in the'
vicinity and who are compelled to sleep j
during the day.
Furthermore the proximity of the
Reily school building places the school
house conveniences within easy reach 1
of the youngsters.
950 MIXERS OX BUTTON STRIKF
About 950 miners of the United Mine
Workers of the Short Mountain Col
lierv at Lykens went out on a button
strike this morning when 57 workers
refused to pay their quarterly dues.
The workers who had paid their dues
refused to work with the miners who
would not pay up.
FIKST GAME
BinghamtonraEmnnranM
Harrisburg MMM
Batteries: Harrisburg, Parson and Wheat; Blnghanuon, Rapp and
Alux^,
J CjJ§^
ASSURE TWO OF
WEEK'S OUTING
M. S. Kelley First to Respond to
Appeal With "Stake"
For McCormick
At least two of Harrisburg's little
folks who otherwise couldn't even
think of a week's outing at the city's
summer camp are assured thus far of
seven days of wholesome fun under
canvas on McCormtck's Island as a
result of the first response to the Park
Department's appeal.
In the departmental mail this morn
ing was this cryptic note wrapped
round a check:
July 20. 1916.
City Park Department:
Dear Sirs—Enclosed please find
check for $4 »o stake two kids for
one week each in camp on McCor
mick'B Island. Vary truly,
M. S. KELLEY.
Any Mope?
Mr. Kelley is the district representa
[Continued on Page 4]
NOMINATE HANLY
AND HENDRICKSON
Prohibitionists Also Xame.Sul
zer; Adopt Platform; Decry
Sunday School Politics
St. Paul, Minn., July 21. Xoml
i nation of presidential and vice-presi
! dential candidates and adoption of a
platform constituted the business be
fore the National Prohibition at its
closing session here to-day. It was
apparent before the convention was
called to order that the contest for the
presidential nomination lay between
three candidates.
A numebr of delegates left for their
homes ißte last night and early to-day
[Continued on Page 4]
Austria Wants More
Petrolite Information;
Reply Will Soon Be Sent
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C., July 21.—The
State Department to-day received
' from Austria-Hungary, through Am
bassador Penfield at Vienna, a re
quest for additional details regarding
rhe attack by an Austrian submarine
; upon the American tank steamer
Petrolite. Mr. Penfield's dispatch
gave no indication as to whether the
Vienna government intended to com
ply with the American demands for
an apology, punishment of the sub
marine commander and reparation for
the (Jamage done by the submarine s
shell fire.
Officials of the department declined
to divulge the nature of the informa
tion sought on the ground that
negotiations at this time were confi
dential. A reply will go forward
shortly.
The Austrian claim has been that
the submarine commander fired on
the Petrolite by mistake and that later
the master of the tanker voluntarily
furnished the submarine with provi
sions. The Petrolite's captain swears
however, that he was shelled without
provocation and compelled over
vigorous protest to surrender a part
of supplies which were sufficient only
to take him to port.
THREE AMERICANS ABOARD
Special to the Telegraph
Portland. Me., July 21. Three
Americans. George Ivey, of Philadel
phia; Richard Neligan, of Boston and
Davis Rosseneau, of Old Town, Me.,
were members of the crew of the
British steamship Tser, reported from
London as having been sunk. The
Yser carried a cargo of 257,730 bushels
jof oats and was commanded by Cap
tain William McL. Hunter.
BRITISH FIGHT
WAY FORWARD AS
FRENCH HANG ON
TO THEIR GAINS
Sir Haig's Forces Now at
Foureaux Wood; Clear It
Once of Germans,but Later
Lose Small Portion;
French Withstand Vigor
ous Counter Assaults
DRIVE ATTACKERS
BACK IN DISORDER
Teutons Losses Heavy in Sus
tained Fighting Along the
Somme Front; Submarines
Sink Merchantmen of Sev
eral Countries, While Ital
ian U-Boat Is Sunk
The Anglo-French offensive in j
Northern France is being vigorously I
pushed to-day's reports show, the
French holding tenaciously to ground
gained and the British fighting their
way further into the German line.
Driving north from Bazentln and ;
Longueval toward Bapaume, General
Sir Douglas Haig's troops have ad
vanced as far as the Foureaux wood. 1
The British rush even cleared this
wood, but subsequently the Germans
were able to win back a part of it.
South of the Somme the French
have been able to hold trenches cap- j
tured in their drive along a five-mile i
front on Thursday, withstanding a
vigorous counter attack. South of
Soyecourt. on the French right, ac
cording to the French war office, the
Germans were driven back in disorder,
sustainins serious losses.
Special dispatches from Copenhagen
to London report the capture by a
German warship of the American sail
continued on Page 4]
Publishers of Couutry
to Meet Trade Body in
High Price of Paper Probe
By Associated Press
Potteville, Pa . July 21. J. H.
Zerby. of the Pottsville Republican
announced to-day that the Federal
Trade Commisson will hold a confer
ence at Washington Aueust Ist. with
newspaper publishers of the country
and the news print manufacturers to
! take up matters with regard to the
price and scarcity of white news print.
The plan, Mr. Zerby said, was to
have newspapermen- file statements
and these were to t>e considered by
I the commission along with examina
-1 tions of the mill workings by agents
of the commission, but . a demand for
an oral hearing of witnesses instead
' of the filing of documents resulted in
the commission deciding to hold a gen-
I eral conference.
"Boil All Water" Is
Water Company Warning
The Hummelstown Consolidated
Water Company, the Rutherford
Heightr Water Supply Company, the
| Paxtang Consolidated Water Com
; panv, the Extension Water Company,
lof Penbrook, and the Susquehanna
| Township Water Company to-day sent
i notices to patron.- announcing that be
! ginning at 7 a m. Monday. July 24,
j unfiltered water will be pumped Into
| the mains. This will continue until
i "imperative repairs to the filter plant"
i are made.
! The eating of uncooked vegetables
j washed in this water is pronounced
dangerous and all water, the company
says, should be boiled at least twenty
, minutes. The State Health Depart
ment will give notice when it will be
j again safe to use unfiltered water.
Central High School For
West Shore Seems Assured
Wormleysburg. Pa., July 21.—Camp
Hill, Wormleysburg and Lemoyne are
now pledged to support the new cen
! tral high school planned for the West
Shore and it is practically certain that
West Fairview will authorize the rais-
I ing of a loan for the same purpose.
This practically assures the success
jof the central high school project. If
j no other towns or townships come in,
j those named crn carry the project
i through, and then if the others want
Ito come in they will have to pay tuition
for the pupils as the law provides.
There is much rejoicing in the towns
i named, for the erection of a central
; high school means rapid growth for
! those interested, due to the attraction
i to prospective residents of properschool
'facilities. With the money already in
; Mght it will be possible to give those
; towns interested a high school equal in
I efficiency to those of Harrisburg.
City Treasury Open Noon
For Reception of Taxes
For the accommodation of citizens
I who wish to pay their city taxes be
fore August 1. and thus avoid the pen
alty. City Treasurer Harry F. Oves an
nounced to-day that on and after Men
! day he will keep the doors of the treas
ury office open for business during the
i noon hour.
Monday evening. July 31, the treasury
| offices will he open from 7:30 to 9
o'clock for the accommodation of the
; latecomers.
Von Tirpitz Man Advanced;
May Mean Undersea Raids
London. July 21. A Reuter's dis
patch from Copenhagen says:
'According to German newspapers
Admiral von Holtzendorff, retired, has
been appointed to a new administra
tive post in the naval service, which is
regarded as a preliminary step toward ,
an active command. Von Holtzendorff'
is a close friend of Admiral von Tir
pitz, and his appointment is being
watched in connection with a possi
ble renewal of Germany's submarine
J
BENT EXPLAINS HOW
SCHWAB WILL SPEND
12 MILLIONS HERE
Great Extensions to Steelton Mills Will Involve $2,000,-
000 More Outlay Than Previously Announced; Pro
gram Includes Blast Furnace Overhauling, New Powei
Installations, Electric and Steam Plants
TO REPLACE FRAME AND CORRUGATED
BUILDINGS WITH CONCRETE AND STEEL
New 200-Ton Tilting Open Hearth Will Give This Depart
ment 75,000 Tons of Steel Each Month; Blooming
and Billet Mill and Two Small Finishing Units; Bai
ter y of Byproduct Coke Ovens
Announcement that the Bethlehem Steel Company's big im
provement program for the Steelton plant will involve the expendi
ture of about $12,000,000—52,000,000 more than heretofore an
nounced—was made by General Manager Quincy Bent to the Tele
graph to-day.
Details as to just what the improvements and extensions will
include were also made public by Mr. Bent.
Complete overhauling of the blast |
furnace department; entirely new I
power installations, based on blast fur- |
nace gas engines; new electric and
f.team plants; a new 2 00-ton tilting
open hearth furnace and other im
provements to the open hearth de
partment; a new blooming and billet
mil! arrangement and two small fin
ishing mills: a. new battery of by
product coke ovens—all these im
provements are included in the big
program.
In addition to these plant additions,
General Manager Bent told the Tele
graph reporter, all the present frame
and corrugated iron buildings in the
big works will be replaced by modern
structures of brick, concrete or steel
construction sb that all will be fire
proof.
Blast Furnace Extension
Perhaps the largest item in the big
I
J PILE BRICKS ON TRACKS; UNDEP SISOO BAIL
1 Sheriff's deputies Cohan and Sneidman this afternoon '
I arrested E. S. Marshall, connected with a carnival company j
i •• Cameron street, south of the Mulberry Street 9
T Bridge, en a charge of piling bricks on the car tracks at §
I Cameroh and Market streets. Marshal! was held under m
I BREAK STIKE BREAKER'S RIB £
& One of the strike breakers, a motorman, named Tenny, J
1 from New York City, running on the Steelton line, was hit «
4
& in the side with a piece of iron. He is believed to have
1 several ribs broken. '
i GOVERNOR ON THE STRIKE *
Harrisburg. Governor Brumbaugh to-day issued !
f this comment on the strike here: "I regret exceedingly 4
that the strike of the railway employes in Harrisburg !
I could rot have been averted, and I do hope that both em- 4
i • ployer and employe can get together at an early date and <
j I reason this out to a satisfactory conclusion." j
i .!
iHANLY NOMINATED BY PROHIBITIONISTS \
St. Paul, July 21. J. Frank Hanly, former Governor
of Indiana, was nominated for Pres'dent of the United !
States on the first ballot of the National Prohibition Con- <
vention this afternoon. Hanly received 440 votes against \
181 for William Sulzer, his nearest contender. «
HUGHES SEES REUNITED PARTY "
Bridgehampton, N. Y., July 21.—Charles E. Hughes to
day told callers that he considered the breach between Re- ®
üblicans and Progressives and between Republican fac- '
tions in various localities to be healing fast and that he i J
loc . . forward with gratification to having a virtually re- !
l united party behind him by the time ris campaign opens in g
< • Detroit, August 7.
, SIR SAM HUGHES EOUND INNOCENT
* I Ottawa, July 21.—Sir Sam Hughes, minister of militia, '
is held by the Meredith-Duff Royal Commission innocent of
, responsibility for the negotiation of government fuse con- •
tracts with American munition manufacturers from which
, they were alleged to have unduly profited. I
j ( MARRIAGE LICENSES «
Cttu* li. Baldwin, Mlddlftown, and Talay M. Bowman* Hershey.
« James D. Kline and Anna Catherine Lyne, city.
*
CITY EDITION
18 PAGES
schedule is the improvement to tli 5
blast furnace department. When tho
new construction work is completed
there will be a compact battery of live
500-ton stacks. Details of the blast
furnace improvement:, have alr;ady
been announces in these columns.
Work on two of the new stacks has
already been st-irted and will be pushed
rapidly. The bridge and construction
department has taken over the steel
erection work on No. 3 furnace, but a
part of the other work will bo
done by contract.
In the open hearth department bt.r
improvements will be made to increase
the output of steel. A new 200-ton
tilting furnace will be added to the
j present battery of six 100-ton station
ary and two tilting furnaces. When
1 completed the new open hearth de
[ Continued on Pace 15]
