M
I hi I
O
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1916.
NUMBER 29.
ran
-
SAM C. MAJOR A VISITOR.
Candidate for Congress Spent
Last Night Here. Spoke in
Front of Court House.
Sam C. Major of Fayette, How
ard county, candidate for con
gress to succeed C. W. Hamlin,
the present incumbent,
EZRA MEEKER
PASSES THROUGH
The Pioneer of the Oregon Trail
Making Third Trip From
Coast to Coast.
Ezra Meeker, who passed
spent through here six years ago driv-
Wedr.esday night in this city and Jng an ox team hitched to a
spoke to the faithful in front of "prairie schooner," wa? in Ltx
the court house,-Mr. Major was ington again Wednesday on his
very hoarse from speaking two third trip from coast to coast,
or three times a day for the He is traveling this time in a
past ten days, yet his voice was more modem conveyance, a
good enough to carry the plain twin-six Pathfinder car with a
truths of his case to those who "schooner" top. Meeker left
assembled. j Washington, May 6, and is mak-
Mr. Major's remarks were ing his way leisurely to the
principally in answer to the Pacific Coast, stopping at all of
pamphlets circulated by Mr. the towns on the way selling
Hamlin under another Con- literature and lecturing on the
gressnan's frank. Mr. Hamlin's importance of preserving the
platform "twelve years in, and identity of the old trails.
I want it some more," Mr. Ham- Through the efforts of- Mr.
lin's argument when he defeat- Meeker, a bill has been intro
ed Judge Cooney "Six years is'duced in the senate and house of
long enough for' any one man .representatives providing for a
to hoi 1 the job," and Mr. Ham-'preliminary survey of the old
lin's-claim that, "he is the only trails with a view of making a
experienced statesman in the national highway from coast to
Seventh district, and to make aoast.
change at this time would be the j Mr. Meeker was accompanied
neign
of folly."
He further reviewed the for
mation of the district and the
vote of each ' county, setting
forth in unanswerable logic; the
justice of Howard county's
by E. C. Grot, a student in the
University of Illinois.
Brought Here for Burial.
The body of Mrs. Ed P.o-
ritrM to Prnwt rprniti when jdeigros, who died in Nebraska
she furnishes the majority i Tuesday brought to Lexing-
which makes possible a Demo-i1 was
crat congressman from this dis-
as
trirt : Viis nwn eYnprionpn
compared to Mr. Hamlin when i,myriage, was Mrs
taken
i to the Winkler Undertaking
Parlors. Mrs. Rodeigros before
Bess
T..n i j ix i - -r
he first asked for the honor-juuaiu' mev oi wrs. Isaac
Mr TTntiin v,o,i Wn ot .Summers, who died in Kansas
tornPV of Bolivar. Mo., and mPm.i about a year ago
ber of the Springfield Board of I Jhe deceased was born in this
Education for six , years. Mr. j?lty a"d was 40 yt'ars old-' She
Major has serve 1 Howard -sr survived two daughters,
Countv six vpars as nmsppiitw :Mrs- rnes of Kansas
attorney and four years in the!Cjty and Miss Mildred Bullard
State Senate. In conclusion hel ?uckner. and two , brothers,
stated that he was a Democrat
first, last and all the time, and
no matter what his fortunes j
were in this race he would be!
found working for the success
of the ticket in November.
For more than thirty years
Howard county has been piling
Clyde Summers of Kansas City
and Elbert Summers of this
i city.
Charles Weber Erecting New
Store Building.
Charles Weber, the Main
street jeweler, has let the con
up Democratic majorities that; tract to Peter Hale for the erec-
this district might be repre-.tion of a one-story brick build-
sented by a Democrat. She is ing adjoining his present loca
now asking that this honor be tion on the east. The new build
given to her, to a favorite son, ing will cost about $3,500, and
Sam C. Major, whose accom- when completed will add con.
plishments befitting this office siderably to the appearance of
are undeniable. i "Dutch" row.
'("! !"S'MWt,-4fi-!'!-i"S'''!,t' f-i !'! $ -- i-t-4"VS""N
h
s-r
? V
V
?'
a
f F
(
;
4
stooe your mim
- IN A -
METAL GRAM BM
Rain and Rat Prool
Wc arc prepared to quote
yon attractive prices on
several different makes.
1 ?
n
11
i S
LAiiBEnTfLU?Mn::K company
"T!:? iri ilr-t rav.:g a?i fr.tw.f. 3."
i
4 l ?
i
To the Democrats of Lafayette County:
For rr.o.e than THIRTY YEARS the Democrats of How
ard County have been voting for the favorite sons of other
counties for Congressman in this District. We furnish the sec
ond largest Democratic majority of any county in the Dis
trict. Am I asking too much for my county when I ask that
we be accorded the honor of naming the man once in THIRTY
TWO YEARS?
The district has been GOOD to Mr. Hamlin. Besides giv
ing him the honor for TWELVE YEARS we have enabled him
to draw from the Government, besides his expenses in going
to and returning from Washington, the snug sum of EIGHTY
FIVE THOUSAND ($85,000.00) DOLLARS.
When Mr. Hamlin was nominated he defeated Judge
Cooney of Saline County who had held the office only six years.
At that time Mr. Hamlin contended that six years was long
enough for one man to hold the office and long enough for one
county to have the honor of furnishing the Congressman. He
has now held the office just twice as long as Judge Cooney did
and if his argument was good then IT SUREIsY OUGHT TO
BE GOOD NOW. But we are now told by Mr. Hamlin that it
would be poor business to take up a new and inexperienced
man and that it does not pay to swap horses in mid-stream.
It is true that he was inexperienced when he was elected, the
only offices he had ever held being city attorney of Bolivar for
two years and a member of the school board of Springfield for
six years. The only offices I have ever held have been Prosecu
ting Attorney of my county for six years and a member of the
Missouri Senate for four years, but in the latter office we
amend, repeal, and make laws. We work under the same rules
in Jefferson as we do in Washington and if we know how it is
clone in one place we ought to know how it is done in the other.
So you see I am not " ?. new and inexperienced man" as my
friend would have you believe, but have had far more expe
rience in legislative matters than he had at the time he offered
himself as a competent and qualified man for this same posi
tion. I invite a comparison of my record in Jefferson City with
his in Washington as to what we each accomplished in the
respective legislative halls.
Now as to changing horses in mid-stream. There is never
any risk in changing horses in the middle of the stream
WHERE YOU KNOW BOTH HORSES.
We now hear the argument advanced from certain quar
ters that a Congressman cannot get started in six terms,
TWELVE YEARS, and this may be true in so far as it con
cerns certain Congressman, but as a general proposition I do
not believe it to be true in Congress or elsewhere, and neither
do you.
The position now taken by these gentleman simply means
a life tenure in office. The chief distinction between an auto
cratic and democratic government is ROTATION IN OFFCE,
and is one of the cardinal principles of the Democratic party.
Whenever a man, I care not who he 'is, gets the idea into his
head that you cannot get along without him, IT IS THEN TIME
TO TRY AND SEE WHETHER YOU CAN GET ALONG
WITHOUT HIM. We have something like g-l.COO" Democrats
in this District and we surely have more than the one individual
who can capably represent us in Congress.
I feel that we are entitU-d to this honor this time and want
you to help r.10. While I am busy in the other counties, won't
you look after my interests in your county? Every vote will
count. Your active support and influence would, I assure you,
be greatly appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
SAM C. MAJOR.
A CIRCUS IS COMING. WETS WIN FIRST BLOOD.
August 10th Robinson's Circus Lexington Remains Wet By a
Will Unload in Lexington
William J. Lester, advance ad
vertising man for Robinson's
circus, was in Lexington Fri
day making arrangements
for this show to light in Lexing
ton, Thursday, August 10, 1916.
Majority of 296. Drys
Elated Over First
Showing.
The election Saturday to de
termine whether or not intoxica
ting liquor should be sold in
Lexington, resulted in a verdict
The show will spread its canvass for the wets by a majority of
in lauomans pasture, ngnt near: 296. This being the first at
town, so that all may attend tempt to put Lexinsrton in the
without a long hot walk. I dry column, the result wrw Wrl
Tke merits of this circus arejto forecast. Only a few of the
unknown in these parts, yet its most optimistic could see a
a circus, so let's all go and be victory for the drys, and few
convinced of its merits or de- expected that the vote would be
merits. nq flnciP na if wa TVia inlvrirl
folks with approximately 400
votes won the election for the
wets as less than 10 -of them
voted dry. This vote anywhere
equally divided would have given
Dr. R viand Receives Painful In
jury. Saturday while in the act
of, cranking his Ford car, Dr. C.
T. Ryland was painfully injured, the verdict to the drys
One bone just above the wrist of
the right arm was broken and
the other dislocated at the wrist
The vote by wards :
1st. Ward.
Dry
52
joint. He was attended by Drs. Lv , " "
TTriov,,i'i 1 -n.n.i.. ' 1 Wet n,j
Dr. Ryland recently had some
changes made on his car a new
body and detachable rims, and it
is thought that the car took this
means of showing its resent
ment. Fred Wilmot Building Home.
Fred Wilmot, the enterprising
: proprietor of the Pin-Ton Gro-
jcery, has let the contract for a Total
a two-story brick and stucco (Total wet vote
residence on his lot on East
Main Street. The work of ex-
cavating commenced Tuesday
2nd. Ward.
Dry
Wet
Dry
Wet
Dry
Wet
3rd. Ward.
....Cd
..295
..232
..164
4th. Ward.
.134
.167
Total dry vote..
1302
...799
...503
Wet Majority
296
; morning. It will contain eight 'w . ,01
.;tv. i v. I Wet majority 1st. ward 121
: modern throughout.
j The Lexington Brick Com
pany and Peter Hale have the
contract.
j Wet majority 2nd. ward 210
Wet majority 4th. ward ...33
Dry majority 3rd. ward ..68
I Fire on Ninth Street.
I Saturday night the small brick
building on the rear of the Mor-
irison-Wentworth Bank lot ad
Block "42" will remain,
body proud of it?
Any-
The women of Lexington are
better acquainted and hereafter
.1 , will wield a mighty influence for
joining the alley, caught fire and 1 , . ., , .
was totally destroyed. The build
ing was used as a garage and it
is thought that the fire was
caused by the explosion of gaso-
dine. The property belongs
i Judge Richard iFeld.
good in the city's affairs.
Death of A Child. .
Katheryne, the fifteen months'
to ( old daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Joe Hollingsworth died Tues-
j day at the home of her parents
S Council Proceedings. inear the McGrew mines. Her
The city council met Tuesday death was due to typhoid fever,
night with Mayor Minor presid-jThe funeral was held from the
j ing. The vote of the local op-1 home Wednesday morning.
tion election last Saturday 'was
checked up and made official. II. W. McNeel of Odessa ar
The council directed the city rived Monday to assist in
j clerk to advertise for bids for! the inventory of the Stier
construct a flush tank at the 'Clothing Co.'s stock occasioned
dead end of the sewer on Seven- by the death of the senior part
teenth street. !ner, George H. Stier.
Miss Thresa O'Brien who has
boon visiting at the home of
Judge T. A. Walker left Satur-jphone P. 13 B.
For Sale
Two Daroc Jersey Boars.
day for her home in Jack
son, Mi?3., Miss Ira.-:: Walker uo
("mparueu
Citv.
r as tat as Kansas
7-14-!r.'o.
Geo. Thorna'n.
Miss ':oxio Cram went to Kan
as City V'edr.fd;iy for a visit.
Five short weeks
And the Chautauqua
will be here
The chief event of the season
Surpassing program excellence
in celebration of the
JENTH ANNIVERSARY
of the advent of the circuit Chautauqua
invented and perfected by Keith Vawter
livyYs Band is coming back
Bigger and Better than ever.
GRAND MUSICAL FESTIVALS
Opie Head Gov. Malcolm J. Patterson
Col. George -AV. Dain George L. McNutt
A FULL WEEK OF HEAL TOP NOTCHEKS
LEXINGTON Aug. 30-ScpL 5
