I m
uM B
fADVERTISE lnM" rrr- - Jjjfl
H -v.n Is much advertising xaluc In sm I II -,58iMlE!??85tii33KiBitS55V a. rvrcnTicB V '9 1
I . The merchant who has (tfli II XC0BlnvflVPIilSS a. ADVERTISE li H
IHETia pit h horseshoes In the jnrd (If II IIkBI llfex i 'Hk.tiS5c W IKyb yKV Kvcty tor has some, one who 1 v M
BE; of hi lorji". or to go visiting 1V y II II IL . iLW!glt'3MvFSi ' 8V ill Ml lIT iH moro or les-i Interested In pushing the '11
HCft the neighborhood In business jf III II 1 P"' ?T?fWifc HE ffi rl r"ihl II IH III It business, Kvery business Is worthy L j H
Km. may nftke 1ul, a reputation SS .$fcs lipLka-AljppAjJ flPSSLlf 11 yW III H ,0 n """,n",r or l'M extent of being fj M
I r.i.my but. when It comes to a ' Ny T' a ij"T V1 ra'ifif?W-Zy Si' fcy 41sV vSkV enlarged. If the right person gets the k ,
" P.f, 'of I u.lness ability, ho will n. . O" business In hand and pushes In the 51 WM
"Shir be unable to deliver the POLITICAl LY RPPIIRI lrArl right way he enn make of that busl- . j
KjI The motnl Is ADVKIIT18I5 Bwered as See., n. .. ' ' --- ntfU HLIOAIM. ness a er decided enlargement and !
P . mU!rtE"2lTIIIPIi b """" ' "" ' 0,e r2"lce Uh' V"' ' Act of March J. 1ST. xTnUgc"" ",n,Wlf "" ' ''1H
I W " I " 7iil!L EVERY FRIDAY JULY 21, HUG
1 JTLE MARKET
I BIS ME HO
IMitttlJU HIKTIITH AXI IU7ITi:it
dkmwo m'ATOur-s loss.
rW Dc'ln ,""r Mocl.tr .tint I tttl-
- , Ullli I'roMMitu Tlinl Ijitlrc
ftsnirr I'ji-t of .Mlllppl Will
' Wast lmmoui Xiutilier r mile
JIM IW ll I-l mill Hog Market.
der
w gun Hi. ml Herx Ire.
KANSAS CITY Mo.. Jlllj 17 -The
40 ntutmArket lost Uvctity-flvp to fortj
' ,ti the first two dnys last week but
jojflff re tlpls and n letter dctnnnd
stored tn to twenty-five, ccnls of
jUIom b) the close of the vvctk The
tff)f tods) Is 10,000 head, nml
)tt loirtsrF stinil) to fifteen icnls tow
KinMS inttlu that urri ulnterrd
n ttfl ami grand on good pasture
.'U n'rhlng 1160 to 13C0 pounds, which
Mtrtipond to a ivrtaln tpo of North'
itft rattle are selling today at 17 50
'loHgltOO artnrdlng to weight mid
OHflrih. .So Northwest steers ha In on
trf ifhi e last Vednesdn, when nine
I (tn of Oregon steers sold nt IH 10 to
llll. That was the low day of the
I k on rattle here. There Is u heaty
1 iimiBil for stocker nml feeders,
ith trprit that the entire iminlry
(rflttitef the Mississippi river will want
,B iilmmeniie number of cattle this full,
HB uihit whole section Is lo,w on tattle,
I Ml stiKkmui there look to Kansas
..Hocrfor Ihrlr Mockers mid feeders In
put measure Prices todii) range
HmlCCO to IK.00
Mierp and lamb receipts were II
HI twins The market was er
met all Inst week, but today killers
eoj f r h cut In prices, due lo n bad
M fur mutton nt lousumlng points
TWr were twentyone iiirs of Idaho
jot and iarllngs here toda, one
twr tlrox of lambs weighing
Mj-nlne ihhiiiiIs ut 110.20. it flve-uir
4f.it of Innilm weighing slxtythree
H3tJ at 110 30, with u cut of 30 per
nit to feeder bu)ent, flftj-tline
MHaJs at l.00, n slx-nir droe of
ullngs, nlnetyfli tounds ner
it four ears nt I7.X& mid two ears
it IT to and rour cars or rutin r thin
tabs lo killers nt 10.00. The lop
s umlx in (lnmlm today In f 10.30,
ivl top mi curling Is 17.90. IVrd.
t iliirk Is firm, as shown by the
m ff Idahos notixl hImivc nt 19.00,
t4 there are prospects that the price
ill silinnn llreedlng ewes are
my held nt 17 SO to 98.00. it droxe
' litra gtMid ones, though some of
'WW aire four nnd six ers old, lust
'"k at IS 76, I0S pounds nxeriige
The hog market Is slipping it llltle,
'Voih the undertone Is strong, nnd
fHits are moderate, nine thousand
T todui Top todnx Is (9.KS. bulk
ulm CO to I9.S0. No North
Mtern hi)gs haxe Im-cii hire sliue
ttUiY when Idnhos solil nt 19.70,
(tit Malms 9 :b, around HO pounds,
n-4 three curs of Montunns sold at
5 and 19 90 One car of the Mon
uu hug weighed 1K7 pounds, nnd
rouiht 19 90. highest price of the
Mildred iwiunds. The throe car ship,
"it of Montnnns had only n total
rtrlnk of (10 pounds from home, due
1 (wit) attention along the line, and
' nI fill lure 1'rospeits faxor
Mtrle receipts, which should mean
'Irm market.
ThU NiiiIoh'h WihiI fnip.
WAKIIINCJTON, 1). C. Jul) 18.
otrlian sheep misers will receive
ul 17 000,000 for this )enr's wool
'"V, the department of ngrliulture
iwnid today. Average prices
Jfln June were 311,7 iitnts n pound,
"her than for many )wirs.
"he average weight of u fleece of
wl la e 93 pounds mid the country
Mma!' produces nbout 37,000,000
V The weight of fleece has
a Imrruslng jcar by ear, auoriN
' to lt!irlmntit figures
'C ntlniitcl on page seven )
HEErSHOGDEN
fonRrchalonal Convention to He
Held ut Junction City.
Th republican nominating convn
J"n fr tliu Klrsl Congressldnal ills.
"" t imuie u candldule Tor repre.
JUIIvp n, longress, will be held In
Men August 9th. the day following
' tepubilian state louventlon. The
. ,' l' "'Kresslonul dlstrlit tomprUes
the counties or tho state, with the
" M!in of Hult Uke. Davis. Too.de
it i c an ''"unties, which make up
iir . r"n'1 """trlit. The cnll for the
uistrh convention has Just been
"Ued
The opjiortlonment of delegates will
on the biuU of one di'legate for
.."y seventy votes cast for Joseph
r ri'l,uHcan candidate for con
" In I'm district two ear agcx
n upporlloninent of the delegates
jcuuntlm Is Heaver, 12; llox Klder.
J l ai he g, Cnrbon, IS; Duchesne,
if, ."" ,3 Oarfleld, , Urund 2;
! . Juttb' Ivune. 6, Millard.
Ju,k rKa"' 7 ''lute, I; Itlch, 61 Hun
" Kiinpete. 13, Hevler, 36. Huin
v. u0 t'lntah. 9, WasitUh, 16,
:hiiigtti u, Wayne. I: Weber.
''untj ihalrmen will direct prl
" at -vvhloh delegutes to this
""Hitlcin ,. l)n Bp,wli. irg.ublll-
tw" r that most counties will select
lh , ,u' from those seluuted to
"tai convontlon.
s-- n NW S'GN FOR THE SAME OLD STAND.
TWEHTV-FODRfHCElEBRflTION
ItlK Time Promised to All Old
I'olks Who Come Out.
The KiiumllUes In charge of the
Pioneer IM lYIehrallciti whlih will
Im held nt the Alt) )Tk next Moncla
are working hurl these du)s lo make
the celebrntlcin it sleeves. Invllnllcins
have been sent out to alt the old
folks In Price and a good lime Is as
stirccl them on that da). Automobiles
have hem provided for ami eaih
guest wilt le tntnHirlel to and from
the wrk free r charge, seats lxlng
reserved at the urk for honored
guests.
Melon Is the program or children's
sHirts, Hie Istlanee of the pregram up
penrlng elsewhere In this Imprrsalon.
These exercises take place on the iwrk
lawn around I o'clock.
Orand march of elilldren In costume
led b) I'rhe Unci.
Drill or lloy Hwitits representing the
Mormon Initiation.
Primary Isvys" ekiss as pioneers
with pioneer wagons and singing phi.
neer songs.
Pioneer dsnee b fourlh and fifth
gnide.
Heagull dance In eostume l) first
nnd second grade primary loys.
Danish dance f gnellng
Khoemaker dance.
Hansel and tlretel ! first and
unci grade girls.
Hungarian folk dance hi third
grnde girls
Uoeky Mountain sunflower dance
l fourtli and fifth gr" girls
Hwedlsh flap b) Initterfly girls.
Old lluslle b bMtlerfl) girls.
Dalnn step and braiding the pole
I.) fourth nnd fifth grado primary
girl i In costume
Chllclren's sM.rts.
Kxhlliltlon of the loeer trail vvlll
I at the fair building all d of the
TuenD'I'ourlh
Cards have lHen sent out Inviting
the old folks ami w blown of Prlio and
Inolude the names of the following
well known iMMiple:
Mrs. Ilernardl
Mr and Mrs. Itobert HWiup
Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Aldrkh
Mr. and Mrs. Jens Peterson
Mrs Mar) MnrrJson
Mr and Mrs. Itobert Powell
Mrs. Itoseltlia Powell
Mrs Harah Jane Powell
Mrs. UdU Mead
Mrs Virginia Cronkeit
Mr and Mrs. Bllvngnl
H P. Ilorslt)
Mrs Kllsa Mtllee
Mrs. Kllu Uruner
Mm, HophU Nellsuli
MrWJ. Thomas HWH.it. W
Mr and Mrs. Jwph Jones
Henry llunten
A. W Muenster
Mrs. 7.ln Connor
Mr. and Mrs. Henr Wade
Mrs llyrum Prandeen
llenn Kmpe)
Mrs. Hvuns
Mrs Koler
Clr'andTs-JM-Whltmore
Mr and Mrs. Oeorge Dovvnard
,ir ami Mrs. W. K. Hmry
Alfred tlrumet
aW5TlIIU Morgan
Mrs Klto Hranflh
Thomas Hdwards
Mr, Dominie Mllano
SSKMK-
John Powell
Mrs Khrrinati
Mrs Anna Ward
In rending out these Invitations It
was the Intention of the committee
to Include ever) one over sUI) )enrs
of age If a n have been missed It
was not the fault of the committee,
but the) should ome an) way, its they
will be welcome
MISS MEET! HELD
StttKC Line Offer Hcnefitrt to
People of Price.
At n mass meeting held ut Oil) Hall
hist night there was it fairly represen
tative crowd of business men out, tho
meeting having been vailed by Ma)or
A. W llorsle) nt the Invitation of
(Icorge A. Hlonu, manager or the
Prlcc-t'lntati llusln Auto Hue, who
was desirous or knowing how tho
people of Price felt toward the line
and what aid they would glvti finan
cial!) toward Increasing transporla
lion equipment, by purchasing stocK
In the compun) The meeting was
called to order b) Major llorsle), af
ter which A. J. I.c was made chair
man. Talks were made by Chairman
!., Attorney U A Mi (lee, (leorge A.
Hlouii. Fred C. Perron, (1. A. Wont
ton, John HcJd, A. U llellman and
others, each telling or the benefits to
Price through tho opt ration or tho
line.
Chairman !. iippoln'led a commit
tee or three, consisting or lien Kteln,
U A. Mitlee and II. Ilandolph, to us
stst Messrs. Hloau nnd Perron In Inter
viewing the Price people III regard to
taking stuck In the enterprise for the
purpose or providing Increased rat III
ties. Mr. Kloun explulned In his talk
(hut It would be netessur) to sell morn
clock In order to provide new equip
ment. .
Will DEVW MINES
Eccles Estate Plans Improve
ments At Rains.
"""" "" s
.e Ito) IIccIch and other heirs to
the ICecles state are planning tor the
opening of the mines of the Ki tchlltn
Coal oompan) near Castle (late which
was recentl) taken over by them. It
Is planned h) the Ogden capitalists to
drive n number of new' heudlugs and
to bring alHiut it development of the
propert) that It ma) compete with tho
other mines In Carbon county To
this end a number of Improvements
are contemplated. A new hauluge
I wu and it new wwir plant together
with the nperutlon of the mine by
electricity Instead or the time honor
ed mule are to bo built. New houses
for the emplo)es of tho company and
it meroantlle establishment will be
built.
Kealea returned Thursday to Halt
!.ake City from an Inspection of the
propirt) and sa)s the prospects of
the mine becoming one of tho big
coul producers or the stute are good
and that the Improvements und the
mining or. great volume or coal will
be started' within a few cIrh. He
was ueeompanled to tho property b)
William Allison of Ogdcn. It Is un
derstood that the coal from the
Ketehum mine will bo sunt to Ogden
and bundled exclusively through coal
yards whluh are to either be pur
ehased or are to be built by u new
corporation of whluh Keeles will be
the head
SCHOOL MINN SESSION
Term of School For the Year Is
Fixed At Eight Months.
At a meeting Xr the consolidated
school board held Mlinda) when nil
meinlN rs were J reseat the following
business was truJisaid!
The term of aithoyt iivtr the loiinly
was fixed ut light months for the
)cnr. The report of the clerk and
treasurer was read and approved unci
ordi red published, the Mini- appear
ing elsewhere In The Hun.
Prof. John (I. (lubli r reported u
lurge crack In the high school build
ing The honrd wilt view tho sumo In
(ompmi) Willi the stute an hill et and
report Inter.
C. II Miulsen ns emplo)ed as
principal nt Castle (lute nnd Miss
Thelmu Pouts emplo)ed us grade
teacher III place or Miss Wnlte.
Attorney 1) H. Iloiili appeared In
the Interest or it new building ut Hia
watha. After some discussion the
mailer was laid over until it Inter
dale.
J. A. Fors)th was ordered to make
needed repairs on the hiHitlug plants
ut the Clear Creek, Winter Quurters
and Heofleld school buildings,
Wllllum lleurnsou was ordered to
take the school census nt Keullwortll
unci Hprlug (lien.
The board adjourned until the fol
lowing clay, when Dr F. K. Kslcu of
Htiitidnrdvlllo was present mid made
a convincing talk for u new building
ut thnt plate. After going Into exe
cutive session tho board ordered Ar
chitect Moimiin to druw plans for u
building not to exceed six thousand
do'lurs.
The hoard In company with Archi
tects Miller mid Mouson and the slate
architect went to Huun)sldo mid view
id the school building there. As u
result or their Inspection needed re
pairs will be made ut onto on the
HAun)slde building
CITY THim MADE
Mayor Horoley Declares Open
Season On Fishing.
At the regular meeting or the ell)
inline II held on Tuesda) evening tho
tit) tax levy tor the eur 1910 was
fixed at nine mills on Ihi dollar While
the stule board of ecuulUatlon has
not )et certified the assessment for
Carbon count), the itascssed vulua
tlon of Prleo clt) will stund itpproxl
mulct) nt 11,600,000, probabl) It llltlo
higher than this figure On the basis
of last ) tar's assessment, with a city
levy or sixteen mills, this ) ear's tax
will amount lo it few hundred dollars
more than Inst )our, but this Is more
than offset by losses to the generul
fund In licenses and fines.
Under the nine mill lev) this )eur
(he city will raise about $13,000 In
taxes. Of this amount twent)-two
hundred und fifty dollars will go for
Interest on bonds, twenty-two hun
dred and fifty for bond sinking fund,
and fifteen hundred fur public library,
leaving only something over seven
thousand dollars for general fund ex
penses. According to all reports fishing Is
good In city reservoir number one
or what Is known ns the old reservoir
Tho species of fish are mostly carp
and are or considerable slxe. In all
probability the reservoir will need to
be drained In order to get rid or the
fish. In the meantime council has
declared an open season on the reser
voir, nnd all who feel so Inclined may
go there and argle.
PLEAD WITH PARTY I
FOR PROHIBITION I
Senator Smoot and Congressman Howell Say 9
People of Utah Demand Liquor Selling Be ;l
Stopped By Legislative Enactment. , .1
II
Prohibition nn an Ihhuc before the people of Utah In the coming ' l.l
election Is K"lniii(r IncrcnalnK attention an each day goes by. What M
each party will do with the question when the time comes to frame M
the respective state platforms is widely dlHctitwd, and many party ', -M
leaders arc strenuously optmed to any action by the vnrious state ' M
conventions thnt would at nil savor of delay in meeting the will of I iM
the people in the matter. JYf M
On this question Senator Kccd Smoot placed hlniHclf on record M
in no uncertain terms in a statement given out nt Washington. M
The comment was made nt the same time thnt Senator Smoot has M
received many letters asking his opinion ns to the advisability of i H
the republican statu convention taking n stand on tho liquor que -,' M
tion that he preferred to make a public stnlcnient of his views on M
the matter rather than to answer each letter individually. Sena- lM
tor Smoot's statement says: f
Asks Itcpuhllcnns to Give Heed. i ''r'
"I am deeply interested in the platform to be adopted by the I ( M
republican state convention to be held nt Ogden August 8th, as the H
success or failure of the party at the election, in my judgment, 1 '" ; H
largely depends upon the platform declarations. Today the great i ' iM
majority of the people of Utah are In favor of statewide prohlbi- ' tyM
tion, nnd are going to have it. I am posltlvu if the republicans nt ) M
the stntc convention refuse to adopt n statewide prohibition plnnk ' 4
in their platform the parly will run thu gravest danger of meet- Hlil
ing defeat. This conclusion was arrived nt after a most detailed :''H
investigation and upon reports from lending republicans in nearly Ml
every city and town In the stntc. i-'IH
"I plead with the republicans to give heed to the growing sent!- j tj!ifB
ment among" the people for statewide prohibition nnd not be do- ' j MM
celved by thinking the people will be satisfied with submitting to i I hi fH
u vote more than two years hence the question of n constitutional ! !rj H
amendment providing for prohibition. vfll
"The people, who have made up their minds to have prohlbi- t Il
tion, will clmractcrlc such a declaration by n republican conven- MiB
Hon rts an evasion and postponement of the question nnd will re- HH
sent it at the polls. It would be preferable to enter thu campaign iftil
with no declaration upon the subject nnd rely upon tho present ' U
local option-law, rather than to ask thu people to submit to tho de- JH
lay involved in an attempt to amend tho constitution. There is C lH
no necessity of amending the constitution to secure statewide u njH
prohibition. Every voter knows that the legislature has full ! jH
power to pass n prohibition law. Thu statewide prohibition ques- 1 H
tion must be met squarely and ns a republican 1 hope thnt every ;J H
delegate to the stntc convention will insist uion a plank in tho llhl
platform declaring for the same." jfl
Representative Howell's Attitude. ' ll
When Congressman Joseph Howell's attention was called nt l 'TjInH
Logan to the statement given out by Senator Smoot, ho said: I tilfH
"The senator Is dead right. On the prohibition question in I LlfiJ
Utah wc arc now facing a condition and not a theory. The people ,(' IH
have made it plain that they want prohibition by legislative enact- W Hh
ment there Is no mistaking that and I hope tu see the repub- I ' nfiH
Itcan state convention ut Ogden interpret the will of the people. I jfn H
"In the districts where prohibition has been tried by local op- I .U fr H
tion and where the people were skeptical ns to its results thero is flH
now almost a unanimous sentiment for statewide prohibition, on )t j
the ground thai it has bettered conditions, not nlono mornlly and ililfilB
soclnlly, but in a business wny ns well. Thu sooner prohibition ftp R
comes in Utah the better, and the shortest wny to accomplish it is P&jj Kt
the way the republican party should take." I ! t BD
CANDIDACY OP CAUL It. MAHCUSEN FOR STATE jH
TREASURER MEETING WITH MUCH APPROVAL 1 jM
Word comes to Carl R. Marcusen from nil over the state that IS !
his candidacy for thu office'' of stntc treasurer is meeting the My ejHH
hearty approval of tho republicans; It is recognized that Eastern f fl
Utah is entitled to a place on the republican ticket, nnd the gentle- tm I
man's qualifications nre recognized on every hand. His experience If f
in finnncial matters will be of the greatest value to him In case ho R j9jH
should be elected to the office. ' 1 I9H
Carlxxi county has never had a place on the republican stato ;l IH
ticket, notwithstanding It has always been with one except ion"ono ' f I tflB
of the banner republican counties of the state. It is therefore felt I jgflH
by the friends of Marcusen that his chances nre very good nt this BdHfl
time. mUHH
