i 1 !'!
COUNTY
BUNR
mmm4 1 1 SOUTH BUSINESS
JLL v ' Auditor, County 1-1-14
VOL XXXIII NO 15
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1916
$1.50t PER YEAR
- UTBDS T. HERB1CK
Governor Hcrrick In Fulton County
Serious Questions That Demand The
Careful Consideration of American
Citizens Presented by a Typical
American. '
At the invitation of the Fulton
County Herrick Voters League, Ex-
, Governor Myron T. Hemck spent
'Monday of this wee in Fulton coun
ty meeting the citizens and speaking
to groups of the people at Fayette,
Arcnbold, Fettisville, Delta and bwan
ton and closing a strenous day witn
an address at the court house in Wau
seon Monday evening. Mr. Herrick
impressed the, peoplewhont he met in
Fulton county with his sincere un
selfish patriotism and his grasp of the
world situation at the. present time
particularly the relation of our own
nation to the conditions that exist or
are likely to exist in the future.
. On thing that Mr. Herrick had
very ntue to say about, was his own
candidacy for nomination as candi
, date for U. S. Senator on the Repub
lican ticket. Members of the Herrick
Voter's League had expected that Mr.
Ht rucks main purpose in coming into
the county would be to present his
claims upon the consideration of the
voters, but Mr. Herrick left that for
otners to do, if they felt so disposed
Mid devoted his time to presenting
various phases of some of the many
; serious . questions now before the
American people for solution.
Mr. Hemck motored through from
Toledo Monday morning accompanied
by iiis son, Mr. Farmalee Herrick and
a secretary, Mr. Koppes: Escorted by
members of the Herrick Voters League
Mr. Herrick drove to Fayette, Arch-
- boid, Fettisville, Delta and Swanton
peaking to groups that gathered in
tne various places, except in Arch-
. bold, and Pettisville where he spent
bra time in meeting and conversing
with as many as possible but did not
' attempt any speech making. Every
where people seemed to be intensely
- interested in what Mr. Herrick had to
say and unwilling to have him stop
talking: At Wauseon the Wauseon
. Band played several selections preced-
ing the meeting at the- court house and
the court room was comfortably well
filled with people when Mr. Herrick
be n speaking at about 8:30. His
address was worthy of publication in
. full but unfortuantely we are unable
to do that in this iBsue, however we
give herewith extracts from his ad
dresses in the county - Monday that
. seem to be of special importance at ;
thia time and in another column we
print in full Mr. Herricks remarks in
regard -to American Neutrality:
Of the many issues that press upon
the minds and hearts of Americans-,
that of. first importance is the deter
mintion of the attitude of the United
States toward th rest of the world1
under the new conditions disclosed or I
created by the European War. Shall
we make our army and navy adequate !
to the protection of American inter-
sts, strong enough to uphold our!PeoP' on e streets ol the cities and
ceuntry in that place of international ' villages through which he passes, in
power which circumstances are forc
ing upon t
' I have seen something of the terrible
waste and desolation that war has
wrought in Europe, and I would be
, loath indeed to see this nation at war.
Yet in the last two years we have seen
forces that we had thought were long
sine tamed break into open conflicts;
navies which we had pictured as mere
. policemen of the world's highways and
armies that we had imagined' were
only guardians of internal order are
now engaged .in the greatest war of
all time. However much we desire
peace, yet in the midst of a world at
' war we cannot close our eyes to the
fact that war may be forced upon us.
We ought not to invite attack by be
ing unready.
In domestic affairs as well as in
foreign policy we have our serious
problems. Every man who knows
anything about the internal affairs of
this country realizes that our pres
ent prosperity is based on the war in
Europe, and that it has come not oe
cause of but in spite of the Under-
wood tariff law. That law, in the nine
months it was in force before the war
beran. had started us on the sure
j ij..-Tli kw or,j
financial disaster. But the .war in
Europe has made our chief competi
tors into our best customers for a
time. We are selling-war products to
:L .r Jt " -.1 .qnonnnnnn .
them at the rate of $300,000,000 a
month, and the imports that normally
come from Europe have been checked
more effectually than any tariff could
check them. . The war is the explana
tion, and the only explanation, for
sach prosperity as we have.
'The ending of the war will put bur
industrial capacity to a new test.
When Lloyd George, the great English
leader, was in France . in the early
months of the war, I learned from
, him that England and France, realiz-
fainting Pays
-Big Profits
AINTLup with. good paint and
-thereby .improve the appear
ance and condition of your pro
perty. You will profit most when
you protect your property with
Billings Ghapin paint.
We offer cans of convenient size.
:E::!$:Mauni88ser .
Tho Corner Druggists
ing hnt old processes of manufacture
would not meet the demands of this
war, had inaugurated a new policy for
the increase of production, which he
designated the "dilution process." The
secret of this system is that where
nine or ten skilled workmen had been
employed before they now use one
skilled workman, assisted perhaps by
one or two partially trained men and
by nine or ten women. This system
for getting the utmost service out of
the workers at home had been arrang
ed between the government, the manu
facturers and the workmen's organiza
tions. As a result of its increased ef
ficiency, a piece of work which had
before required an hour and twenty
minutes was now being done in six
minutes, and machines that had taken
two years to build were being turned
out in a month. On place where 900
women had been employed now had
9000.
Both in foreign and domestic affairs
we are at a supreme moment in our
history. As the one great nation un
touched by the' destructive war in Eu
rope we are in a position to play a
great part in the reconstruction of
civilization. But it seems to me as
to many that the administration has
failed to understand or express the
will of America in this crisis. In its
obvious anxiety to adhere strictly to
the letter of international law it has
utterly failed to catch the spirit of
our obligation to suffering humanity in
Europe, to whom the law of nations
permitted us to minister as the law of
humanity required us to do.
Where shall we turn for firm and
intelligent leadership if not to the
Republican party whose leaders have
guided the policies of the United
States almost continuously for two
generations? In all that time it has
produced a succession of able states
men for America; it is stiJI producing
the men of vision, ' of capacity, of
training; to guide the1 nation in these
days, of perplexity and doubt.
In the Chicago convention was evi
denced the new spirit of the Ameri
can people, and the politicans sinking
their differences and uniting their ef
forts accepted a man whom the peo
ple demanded and whom the politi
cians did not want. The Republican
party, chastened and with a new in
spiration to unselfish service, will
come from its retirement in Novem
ber with the election of Charles E.
Hughes as president. That change
will restore confidence in. the Ameri
can nation; it will replace this country
in the esteem of the world.'
NOVEL CAMPAIGNING.
Stephen A. Stilwell of Warren coun
ty, who is a candidate for the Repub
lican nomination as Auditor of State
has adopted a novel way of bringing
his . appeal directly to the voters of
the btate :
He has a little Ford with a ton Von
which is lettered the announcement
of his candidacy and on the, inside a
"Chimeafon", a musical instrument
said to be equal to a 20 piece band
which attracts attention to the equip-
page. Mr. Stilwell struck Wauseon
iust before noon on Tuesday of this
week. He has covered half of the
Stae and expects to cover the last
ha" during the next three weeks,
Mr. Stilwell is speaking to groups of
the interests of his cane
jidaey.
Will My Child Take Dr. King's New
Discovery?
This best answer is Dr. King's New
Discovery itself. Its a pleasant sweet
syrup, easy to take. It contains the
medicine which years of experience
have proven best 1 for Coughs and
Colds. Those who have used Dr.
King's New Discovery longest are its
best friends. Besides every bottle is
guaranteed. Jf you don't get satis
faction you get your money back. Buy
a bottle, use as directed. Keep what
is left for Cough and Cold insurance.
CARD OF THANKS.
To the friends who remembered us
with flowers the ladies for their songs
the minister for his comforting words,
to those who assisted iq any way at
the time of the death and burial of
our mother, we wish to return our
thanks.
Charlie Snyder
Arthur F. Snyder.
phrtpp DTrnnrs
. MiRTER.RHOD ES ,
Virj"' 4,7' AL I & 'T'
"u, "u . .
i were joined in marriage. Rev. J. A.
Wharton minister of the Christian
churcfi performed the ceremony ai. the
parsonage. These young people will
" 1 M i n, i - mi
" j
best wishes of their friends go with
them.
ADVERTISED LETTERS.
Mr. Bert VanWormer, Mrs. B. Van
Wormer (2), Mr George Shoemaker,
Mrs. H. H. Talcott, Mr. Bert Taylor.
EMIL WEBEK, P. M
Beauty More Than Skin Deep.
A beautiful woman always has good
digestion. If your digestion is faulty,
Chamberlain's Tablets will do you
good. For sale by all dealers.
ACTIVE NEUTRALITY
The Real Meaning of Neutrality Not
To Profit From the Loss and Suf
fering of Nations, But To Act The
Part Of The Good Samaritan To
ward The Sick, Wounded and Needy.
By Myron T. Herrick.
It is not only the soldiers at the
front.fighting and dying for country ,on
whom the hardships of war bear with
cruel weight. It is a gloriousand con
spicious thing to die for one's coun
try; it is more difficult to live for
one's country as the women, the old
men, and even the children of Europe
are doing. They endure in silence the
privations, the shortage of food and
clothing, the hard labor in factory and
leld, sometimes even the loss of homes
which are the inevitable accompani
ment of the struggle. They suffer al
so that supreme horror of war, the
loss of loved ones killed in battle.
There is scarcely a home in Europe
that does not mourn its men swallow
ed up in ,the great conflict; not a vil
lage without its crippled men to be
constant reminders of the human
sacrifice of these terrible years; not
a person who will not bear through
life the unseen scars that grief has
marked on mind and heart during the
great war.
It is little enough that we of Ameri
ca can do. We cannot heal the broken
hearts nor fill the empty homes. But
so far as (rifts in money or supplies
and the personal service of our people,
can soften for the sufferers in Europe
the hard conditions under which they
now exist, it is our duty to aid to the
uttermost extent ot our ability.
There is an impression that to be
neutral means that we may profit from
the blood and tears of nations m
agony, and that there is no obligation
on us in return to do more than give
a little from our surplus. But there
is an active neutrality which will cause
Europe to think of us when this war
is over, not as commercial-minded sel
lers of munitions and supplies alone,
but as the large-hearted, free-handed
people who have cared for the wound
ed and dvme. clothed and fed the
homeless and hungry, and nursed the
helpless victims of battle. These are
things which by the law of nations we
are permitted to do. These are the
actions which will gain us the love of
Europe, rather than its contempt for
our commercialism. ,
The situation can be adequately met
only by the systematic organization of
all the philanthropic forces of the
United StatnsA 4 strong central au
thority is :.w3ded "such 'as "the govern
ment alone can give. I wish that the
President had seen fit (and it "is not
yet too late to appoint a large nnm-
ber of the leading men of the country , lieutenants were "turned down" by the
as a committee to take charge of the j physical examination last Wednesday
whole undertaking: to co-ordinate all j the boys have been somewhat wor
kinds of relief work, receiving the aidjried over the result of their own ex
of federal and state governments even animations.
to the extent ot appropriations, w ere
we to set the mark at a billion dol-j First Ambulance Company which the
lars, that would be little enough to boys wouid jjke to have corrected is
mfeet the extraordinary demands of ( that this company ;s attached-to the
this worst calamity that the world baSSlxth Regiment: the fact is, that the
ever known. It is often said that the(First Ambulance Company is unat
United States will have no friends . tached and is in no way connected with
wnen una war enus, uui wcic wc "
create this gigantic charity to labor in
every one of the belligerent countries
for the relief of the wounded and des
titute, its beneficent work would far
overshadow all the animosities which
now vex us. We should have all those
nations as our friends. The perform
ance of our duty as a Christian nation
would be also our most effective mea
sure of defense.
That should not be our only mea
sure of defense. Because I have seen
great nations rush into battle in a
few short days; because I have ridden
through blood-stained fields where
thousands of dead men lay with faces
upturned to the sky; because I have
seen long lines of vehicles dripping
blood as they bore the wounded back
from the front; because I have seen
the awful ruin of war until it numbs
the mind and sickens the heart, I am
for peace.
But peace lies in strength, not in
weakness. The balance of the world
has been upset, and civilization is
turned back a hundred years. In the
4 Specials 4 Days
SSlBHHSMBBBSBBMHSMMHBWMiSSHilHWiSiHBWHM
Come on in the water is fine and so a is STRAW HAT now days. And
look how easy we are going to make it for you to enjoy one of them
For the Next 4 Days you can buy, any Dress Straw Hat in the
House at 50c on the. Dollar
Dliotor Pnoto You hadnt ought to be without one, as it will save you many times the price 0 1 C n
Ulluiul UUuloofiton your Dress Suit, when you can buy a Linen coat a t only - ; J) J i u U
Tropi, Crash, Palm Beach Suits
and any White Serge Pants
which are very much appreciated by those that
wear them are going on sale
At a saving of 20 to you
Excepting overalls, we HAVEN'T ADVANCED a SINGLE item,
therefore claim that you really save on anything that you
might want in Mens and Boys Wants
Icir
midst of a world at war we cannot tell
what, dangers may threaten us. We
do know that an army and navy of
reasonable strength are essential to
the continued peace of this great, rich
country.
Our situation calls for more than a
mere strengthening of army and navy.
It demands a greater devotion to the
duties of citizenship and a new stand
ard of unselfish patriotism. A' duty
owed to the nation in return for the
benefits which the nation confers upon
its citidens must ever be the guiding
principles in a democracy. We have
neglected to teach that lesson. We
have tended to look on government as
a thing remote and apart from our in
dividual lives. It should be the duty
of every public school to impart the
lesson of national service and put a
new emphasis on the duties of citizen
ship. The world is at an era of change
and readjustment. Nations and men
have been shaken out of their accus
tomed grooves. Let us see to it that
when society returns to sanity we shall
have made an advance; that we shall
not have failed in bearing forward the
light of civiliztion which Europe has
for the time laid down.
HT GAMP WILLIS.
Fulton County Boys In The Ohio State
Mobilization Camp Near Columbus
Glad To Hear From Home Tired
of Doing Nothing, But Well and
Happy.
Letters from Sergeant Walter Figy
of The First Ambulance Company to
Ruas Campbell and to the Tribune
bring the news that our Fulton County
Boys, members of the First Ambulance
are well and happy, with certain quali
fications. Members of the Wauseon
Lodge Knights of Pythias had club
bed together and sent the boys a box
of candy which was gratefully re
ceived and proved a delightful sur
prise to the boys who were, by this
gift assured that they were not for
gotten by their friends "back home".
Another gift that brought forth the
sincere thanks was the "Good Old Ful
ton County Tribune" as Sergeant Figy
statedit. The boys speak in terms
of highest praise in regard to the
Army Y. M. C. A. at Camp Willis.
Sergeant Figy writes, "The Y. M. C)
A. is certainly doing a fine work here;
some folks say that it is a fake, but I
know better. The government
wouldn't even furnish them their
light, they furnish their own power
and light for their picture show."
"Lying around doing nothing" does
not suit our boys they are "anxious to
be up and doing.
Since Vol. Howard and one ol his
0ne misconcet)tion in regard to the
the Sixth Keeiment.
Following is the list of Fulton
County boys who are members of The
First Ambulance Co.: Captain 1. C.
CosGrove; First Segreant, Fred Dimke
Sergeant Walter C. Figy; Sergeant G.
H. Somers; Privates, 1st Class, Glen
Spade, Paul Gibbons, Mike Figy, Geo.
Thomas. Privates, Roscoe Marks,
Paul Theabold, Otis Johnson, Carl
Geringer, Ralph Goll and Paul Den
nis. Her Left Side Hurt
Mrs. Laura Beall, Plattsburg, Miss.,
writes: "Last April I got in bad
health; my left side hurt all the time.
I had symptoms of Blight's disease.
I took Foley's Kidney Pills and feel
all right now." They quickly relieve
backache, rheumatism, aches and
pains. Bladder troubles, too, are cor
rected by this remedy. Fink & Hau
messer's. Tribune Advertisements
Best Results.
Gets the
c
noun m i
m m b Jim
Home of Good
Sentiment of Californians Regarding
Woodrow Wilson and His Adminis
tration, As Gathered by An Ohio
Man Recent History of Mexican
Situation.
By C. J. Thompson, of Defiance, O.
I have spent four months in Cali
fornia getting acquainted with its
Jlimate. its people; their mode of
business and lines of thought of late
frequent letters! have reached me
from Ohio asking me to portray the
sentiment of the State, as near as I
can gauge it, regarding Woodrow
Wilson and his Mexican policies. From
observation, talks, interviews and a
close watch of the leading journals of
the state, I am enabled to compile the
following, for much of which I am
under obligations to the courtesy of
the Los Angeles Times.
Californians are loyal to the Ameri
can Republic. They, as well as Ohio
ans, regard it the duty of every
American to support the President in
dealing with foreign nations, but they
find it exceeding difficult to stand by
a man who, like Mr. Wilson, does not
stand by himself; who "watchfully
waits" on Monday and bluffs on Tues
day and backs down on Wednesday.
The history of our dealings with
Mexico during the last three years
has been a record of blunder and of
backing up on the part of the nation
al administration. The violation of in
ternational law by refusing to recog
nize Huerta, the unauthorized capture
of Vera Cruz at a loss of twenty of
our brave boys, the withdrawal from
Vera Cruz without obtaining what
was demanded from Mexico, the re
fusal to protect the lives and pro
perty of Americans in Mexico, the
direction to American citizens in
Mexico to abandon their property and
leave the country, the- demand for a
salute of twenty-one guns to our flag
as an apology for arrest and incar
ceration of a party of our sailors, the
cheerful acquiescense in Mexico's re
fusal to .either apologize or salute, the
belated recognition of Carranza as
President de facto, the supplying of
Villa with arms and munitions,, the
permission to Carranza to send ' his
troops through our territory, the fail
ure to demand adequate reparation
for the massacre of Americans at
Santa ' Isabel, the practical submis
?rj.V" ,
sion to invasion of our territory and
arson and murder at
Columbus, all make a record of shame
ful submission following loud-voiced
fYllV:)161! Bomb.astesiFuri
ioso naijed his foot coverings to
.tree with the inscrintion: .
("Whoever these boots displace
Must meet Bombastes face to facie,"
he tried to make good his threat.
When Wilson refused, at the insolent
demand of Carranza, to withdraw
from Mexico -the troops which had
with the consent of Carranza, marched
into Mexico to pursue the bandits and
murderers who had invaded the Unit
ed States, and followed this by calling
upoS the States ior 100,000 troops to
protect our border 'the country took
heart of hope that at last we should
have what we ought to have had years
go adequate armed intervention , in
an armed occupation of the northern
states o Mexico. Such intervention
would not have been to acquire terri
tory, but to protect American life and
property and restore order. It would
have been a benevolent intervention
that would have been of benefit to all
of the people of Mexico except the
bandits. We might have been requir
ed to remain there but a few months
and it might have taken years.
Whether for a short or a long period,
our occupation would have resulted in
restoring the fields of Sonora and Chi
hauhau to cultivation, their industrial
plants to production, their mines and
railroads to activity and their people
to prosperity.
. When President Wilson announced
to Carranza that he would not comply
with the demand of the latter to with
draw our troops, but would, on the
contrary, send more troops to join
those already there, the people of the
United States, without distinction of
party, , commended his action. And
now comes the news that there is a
Children Wash Suits
Ranging in age from 2 to 8 years made in Junior
Cadets and Dutch Wash Suit Styles. Reducing
the price
to the tune of 25 off
uihouser
Clothes and Shoes
large movement of Mexican troops
with amunition, heavy field gun pieces
and machine guns to reinforce Gener
al Trevino, accompanied alas and alas
by telegraphic advices from Washing
ton that General Pershing has been
ordered to gradually move northward
toward American soil.
The excuse of President Wilson for
this surrender to Carranza for that
is what it is is that it will tend to a
peaceful solution of our controversy
with Mexico. The sentiment in Cali
fornia seems to be that the presi
dent's action will have a contrary ef
fect and that it will stimulate more
invasions of our territory and more
border raids on American towns.
What the California people, would
like to see President Wilson do is to
serve notice on Mexico that the Unit
ed States troops have gone into that
country to stay until a stable govern
ment is established and life and, pro
perty along the border are secure;
that we are going to do there what
England did in Egypt, and then with
draw, and what we did for Cuba, and
then come out; that we have no other
motive but to tranquillize the country
and substitute order for anacrhy.that
Carranza and the Mexican people' are
expected to co-operate with us and we
do not invite war or bloodshed, but
profer friendship and helpfulness.
And if, under these conditions, they
choose to fight us instead of accept
ing our amity and good will very
well, let the battle go on.
Such briefly is the California senti
ment toward the present national ad
ministration. California will give the
Hughes and Fairbanks electors 100,000
plurality in November. It may be
more, but this figure is a cinch.' Mr.
Wilson finds that he cannot rule the
thoughts of the people of this, great
Coast as- easily as he directed the
thoughts of those who controlled the
St. Louis convention.
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE.
Last Saturday the resignation of
Levi Hoy as U. S. Mail Carrier on
Rural Route No. 3 Wauseon, . Ohio,
took effect and the long term of ser
vice in this capacity of the oldest
Rural Carrier in points of age and con
tinuous service in the State of Ohio
and possibly the oldest in the United
States, same to an end. Mr. Hoy was
one of the three first rural carriers
in Ohio the other two resigned some
time ago leaving Mr. Hoy the oldest
carrier in point of continuous service,
in the. State. : Mr. Hoy., would have
completed twenty years of continuous
service had he remained in the gov
ernment . employ . until next October.
People who know. what , conditions of
roads and weather have been here in
Fulton county, during the past twenty
years and those who. are, acquainted
with the daily duties, hindrances and
will agree that Mr. Hoy in the faith-
perplexities of the rural mail carrier
tul performance of these duties
through all the years has rendered to
his county and to his fellow citidens
a "distinguished service" and is en
titled to the honor and appreciation
accorded to those who render such
service. Mr. Hoy will be 81 years of
age at his next birthday and his long
service in the Post Office Department
is the more remarkable on account of
his advanced years,
, rr i i j
ne nas also a recora oi iour years
of service . under arms in the Union
Army during the Civil War and yet in
spite . of his years and ..the toil and
hard service he has seen, he seems
hale and hearty and good-for ten or
fifteen years more. , Long may he
live to enjoy in peace the fruits of his
labors and the. pleasant associations
of family friendsand comrades. ' Mr.
John King will take the place made
vacant by Mr. Hoys resignation. .
Benefited by Chamberlain's Liniment.
"Last winter I used Chamberlain's
Liniment for. rheumatic pains, stiff
ness and soreness of the knees, and
can conscientiously say that I never
used anything that did me so much
good." Edward Craft, Elba, N. Y.
For sale by all dealers.
FOR COUNTY AUDITOR.
I announce to the voters of Fulton
county that I am a candidate for
County Auditor, subject to the pri
mary August 8th.
EMANUEL RUPP,
15-3 German Twp.
Many buy Hanford's Balsam for
one ailment and then find other uses
for it.-
We
Iros.
Cases in Probate Court Marriagex
Licenses Real Estate Transfers
Orders Drawn on ' Treasury-
-New
Cases in Common Pleas Court.
Probate Court.
Estate of Amos Fay,.deceased, inventory-and
appraisement filed.- Ap
plication to sell personal property at
private sale filed and granted. Or
der of sale reported thereon filed knH
confirmed.
Saumel Schmucker as administra
tor of estate of Joel S. Schmucker, de
ceased vs Charles G Schmucker et aL
Administrators bond filed and approv
ed. Insanity ofWilliam LRichon, af
fidavit of lunacy filed. Inquest held
and patient.iounci. to be -insane and
committed to Toledo State Hospital
C. A. Knapp as administrator of es
tate of Albert F Kerschaeiv deceased
vs Lucy Ln Kerschner. et -ai. Sale-nf
real estate. Appeal .bond filed. Case
certified to Common Pleas Court
, GuardiansbapotDonakL-Elson.Wfl-son,
et al,. application .ior letters of
guardianship filed. ..Bond filed, and ap
proved and letters of guardianship is
sued to Margaret E., Wilson Inven
tory filed.
Estate of Robert. Hamilton Wilson,
final distributive filed and confirmed.:
Administrator, discharged.
Estate of Samuel M. Saeger-, deceas
ed, ,2nd partial account filed. , Hearing
set for August 14th, 1916.
Will of Mary Westbrook,. deceased.
Testimony of witnesses taken and will
admitted to probate and record. -
Alice Steward as executrix Vs Homer
B. Steward, petitino to sell real es
tate filed.- Summons issued.
Will of S. K. Griffin, deceased, testi
mony of witnesses taken and will ad
mitted to probate and record.
Estate of Mary Westbrook, deceas
ed. Application for letters testamen
tary filed. Bond filed and letters tes
tamentary issued to W. D. Smith, and
George R. Ackerman, O. M. Brailey
and W. C. Smith are appointed as ap
praisers. Guardianship of Charles Wright,
application for guardian filed. Hear
ing held and found necessary to ap
point guardian and letters of - guar
dianship issued to Walter A. Tappan.
Barbara Wolf committedto Toledo
State Hospital.
Will of Albert W. Hurd .deceased.
Application for probate of will filed.
Notices issued and hearing set for
August lbth, 191b, one o clock p. m.
Estate of Maria Bender, deceased
application for letters of administra
tion filed. Bond filed and approved.
Letters of administration issued to
Christena J. Lauber and August
Ruihley, Ed. Cosgrove and - Daniel
Spangler are appointed appraisers.
Estate of Robert H. Wright, appli
cation for letters of administration
filed. Bond filed and approved and let
ters of administration issued to Ros
coe C. Wright , Appraisement dis
pensed with. '
Insanity of Frank Jacquot . Affida
vit of lunacy filed. Hearing held and
patient committed to Toledo State
Hospital. " .
Will of S. K. Griffin, widow elect
ed to take under terms of said will.
Estate of S. K. Griffin, deceased, ap
plicationf o r letters testamentary fil
ed. Bond filed and letters testamen
tary issued to Max S. Griffin and M.
Lewis, Frank Rice and G. W. Griffin
are appointed appraisers.
Estate of Francis M. Barnes, ap
plication filed. Bond filed and letters
testamentary issued to Isaac Tyner
and C. A. Cole, William, Mohr, C. W.
Gould are appointed appraisers. .
Marriage Licenses
William .J Wolf, 25, laborer and
Bertha G. Lozer, 26, both of Wauseon, j
Ohio, Rev. T. B. Ashton, officiating.
Frank E. Sevey.i 32, farmer and
Marie C. Lajune, 32, both of Oelta,
Rev. W. C. Schafer, officiating.
William K. iJennis, 55, lumberman,
Toledo, Ohio, and Katherine M. Motley'
35, Wauseon, Ohio. Kev. A, .Barker,
officiating. '
Neaffie Collins, 26, farmer, Maybee,
Michigan and Lena Reichhardt, 20,
Wauseon, Ohio.. Rev. Blanchard, offi
ciating. . .
New Cases in Common Pleas Court.
Irma Ilawley vs Harrett Hawley, ac
tion for alimony and injunction.
State of Ohio, el rele Geraldine An
drews vs George Greisinger.
Real Estate Transfers.
W. H. Eager to Mary Thierry, lot
8, Greenough's addition, 'Wauseon, O.,
$1000.
Wm. H. Shelt to Joseph Kimerer, 30
acres, section 1, Swan Creep township
$1500.
Bradford Bundy and wife to Carlos
B. Slater, one half acre land, section
16, Lyons, Ohio, $1.
John E. Boner to Ella M. Taylor,
P RES TIG E
When a check is received bearing
the name, "First National Bank", it 1 I
carries with it prestige and the re-
cipient knows the maker of the check j
has sound banking connections. II II
In offering the services of this bank, 11 II
we are placing at your disposal bank- j j
ing relations that must reflect to your II U
advantage in all your business II
dealings, which is prestige. It I
First National Bank
"Tin BAJKK-BT-MATL Bank , jj
Wauseon, - - - - Ohio
six and one half acres, section 12,
German township, $1300.
Elmer Vernier to Albert Short, et
al, small parcel land, Archbold, Ohio,
$1.
Albert Short, et al to Solomon C.
Nof zinger, small parcel land, Archbold
Ohio, $1.
Fred Pfaff and wife to Jacob Hiser,
lot 62, unaccepted plat. Oakwood ad
dition, Delta, $57.50.
Jared Smith and wife to S. C. Hal-
lett, small parcel land, . section 12,
b wanton, Ohio, $1.
Wm. J. Sheffield to Wm- J. Sheffield
Jr., lot 24, Fray's 2nd addition, Delta,
wnio.
Fred W. Deck and wife to H. Huf
tile, small parcel land, Fray's addition,
Delta, Ohio, $750. ,
John R. Clendenin . and wife to R.
P. Carpenter, undivided one half parts
lots 41, 42, and 43, Plainfield addition,
Lyons, $40.00.
Carlos B. Slater . to .Phoebe E.
Bundy, one half acre land, section 16,
Lyons Ohio, $1.
Leigh Richmond D. Gamber, et al,
to J. Moward Gamber, part lot 15,
Fayette, Ohio, $1.
w
Warrants Drawn.
Toledo Blue Print Co, blue
. prints, Surveyor 10.16
Verta Graffice, ditch 1128 ... . 100.00
John Haas, ditch 1104 22.00
B. F. Kling, inspr. rd. 68 91.00
First Nat'L Bk., int rd bd.. 143.75
Peoples Bank, rd.bd and int.. 2117.50
Nellie Garrett, mothers pen 6.00
C. F. Hartman,., Coroner . 5.75
Fayette Review, legal 7.87
E. B.- Robinson, road repair., 65.00
Chas. Garman, same ... 42.00
Eph.,FurneyR same - 28.7g
Geo. Sackett, same Msix, , 29.00
Jas. Biglow, same w.w:.as:. 23.25
J. A. Bayes, same ..x.im 16.00
Dale "Blair, same ..... 22.00
David Gerig, same ....;wt!K, 14.00
Fred Kiser, same .v... 20.00
Ezra Aeschliman, same . . . ... 22.00
Howard Kutzley, same . . ; 21.00 ,
Dave King, same ...... 23.00
J. M. Miley, same 28.00
W. A. Showalter, same - 12.63
Otis Lamb, same 12.63'
W. R. Guilford,roa d work., 336.00
Ha.Ty Blizzard, road repair.. ; 12.63
Raiph Bingham, same 11.12
C. R. Shadle, inspector rd 45 70.50
Heist, Hill & Gunn, rep. Infy. 31.61
Geo Kesler, labor 55.56 ,
G. R. Stebbins, dtich 1117 .... 20.00
Julia Donnelly, m. p. . . . .. . 9.00
Ed. Hahn, labor Infy. ...... 7.75
C. H. Hayes, sheep claim ..... 8.00
Treasurer State, liquor tax .. . 774.92
A. Hogeboom, fish, Jnf y. 8.60
Jos. Lumbrezer, ditch 1104 . ., ; 57.50
D. Ritzenthaler, shoes Infy. . , 10.40
Ottawa Tile Co., ditch 1126.. 178.76
M. E. Mattern, school ex. . . ,. 10.00
W. H. Lepard, sheep claim. . 33.00
Arcade Bldg. Co., rent 30.00
A B. Jones, sheep claim .... 32.60
H. H. Tredway, advance draw
Amboy . 500.00
E. F. Hanson Co., feed Infy. 40.75
Treas. State, Examiners .... 228.83
Peoples State Bank, Clinton
schools : 1000.00
Traveling Man's Experience.
; "In the summer of 1888 I had a very
severe attack of cholera morbus. Two
physicians worked over me from four
a. m. to six p. m. without giving me
any relief and then told me they did
not expect me to live; that I had best
telegraph for my family;. Instead of
doing so, I gave the hotel porter fifty
cents and told him to buy .me a bot
tle of Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy, and. take no
substitutes. I took a double dose ac
cording to the directions and went to
sleep after the second dose. At five
o'clock the next morning I was called
by my order and took a train for my
next stopping point, a well man but
feeling rather shaky from the sever
ity of the attack," writes H. W. Ire
land, Louisville, Ky. For sale by all
dealers.
- N .
DELTA MEN COME TO
WAUSEON NEXT SUNDAY
The Men's Class of the. Delta Chris
tian church will come in a body next
Sunday to visit the Christian . church
Bible School. They will remain for
the. morning church service, and after
that the two classes of men will lunch
together in the church dining rooms.
A program is being prepared for lunch
hour, and it is hoped every man of
both classes will be present. This visit
is made in return for one made by the
Loyal men of. Wauseon Christian
church a few weeks ago. A profitable "
time is anticipated.
Clear Skin Comes From Within.
It is foolish to think you can gain
a good clear complexion by the use of
face powder. Get at the root of the
trouble ; and thoroughly cleanse the
system with a treatment of Dr. King's
New Life Pills. Gentle and mild in
action, do not gripe, yet they relieve
the liver by their action on the bowels.
Good for young, adults and aged. Go
after a clear complexion to-day. 25c
at your druggist.
. Tribune Advertising Gets the Best
Results. . . .
