The Eclio lias a
reading circulation
of over 4,000 per
sons woo trade in
Leavenwortn. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 29
IS THE GREAT WAR
DRAWING TO A CLOSE
Jhe Tremendous Advance Made By the
Allied Armies Points to Such
a Conclusion
To everyone who has kept up with
:the war news from Europe since the
great and united drive of the allies be
gan the first of July, this question has
suggested itself. Russia came back
two months ago, first on the Asiatic
front and more recently on the Aus
trian sector of the battle line has she
made it evident to her confederates
that lack of war munitions alone was
responsible for the poor showine made
against the German armies in the year
1915. The real squeeze began simul
taneously, about July first. Italy
turned on the Austrians in the southern
angle. On the western front, France,
reinforced by the great English army,
in training for fifteen month, and Rus
sian troops coming by way of the Suez
canal, began an assault on the German
lines from the channel to the Swiss
frontier; supplied with everything that
they had formerly lacked in big guns
and amunition, literally plowed their
way thru the first and second lines of
supposedly impregnib'.e German trench
es, are now hammering away at the
third and last.
Up to this time on the western front
from one to five miles of advance has
been made. If the third line of de
fensive trenches are passed the battles
will be in the open until the German
frontier is reached. On the Italian
front the advance has been slow, the
fighting being in a mountainous coun
try. On the eastern front Russia has
fought her way deep into Hungarian
Austria. Between Riga on the Baltic
and the Austrian frontier lies a large
part of what is known as Russian Poland,
where Yon Hindenburg pounded the
Russian armies so unmercifully last
year, and where he is still in command
of the German armies, slight advantage
has been gained by the Russian armies.
If one should attribute all the allied
success to a plentiful supply of arms
and ammunition he would be only
half right. The gains made by the
allies is due more to two causes, num
bers and simultaniety of attack. Aus
tro-German armies are defending a
line about fiye thousand miles long,
to defend this long line her armies
have to be spread out too thin against
the overwhelming numbers of the
allied armies. All during 1915 she
fought French armies on the west and
Russian armies on the eastern front.
Her splendid and highly developed
railway system made it possible when
necessary to quickly transfer troops on
a comparatively short line from one
front to the other, but when attacked
simultaneously by large numbers of
troops on almost every mile of her five
thousand miles of froniier she did not
have the men to meet the assaults on
anything like an equal footing. One
might admit that a German soldier
is equal to three of the allied soldiers
but falls down before six. One soldier
is about equal to another if trained to
the use of anne and led by competent
officers, tho the Austrian soldiers have
made a poor showing. Due, doubtless
to lack of training and leadership.
Russian soldiers, if well led, are said
to be among the best in Europe.
Largely due to their implicit obedience
to command and phlegmatic indiffer
ence to death. French soldiers are
fine, but do not like to return to a
charge over a field covered with dead.
There are all sorts of rumors about
an early peace. An early cessation of
hostilities-is not likely but may come
about before the snow flies. So far
the integrity of German soil is not
threatened. When that time comes
peace talk is in sight Of course a
break may come any time, and is most
likely, come thru Austria. The German
people are beginning to feel the dis
comforts of war but the war paity in
Germany, the nobility, will be slow to
admit defeat. Should Russia make
further advances into Hungary, threat
ZTbe Xeavenwortb Jso&j
ening Budapest, the capital, the people
of that country may bring pressure to
bear on the government at Vienna
that will cause a break and possibly an
effort for separate peace. This would
very shortly be followed by Germany
throwing up her hands and asking for
the very best terms on which the peace
of Europe could once more be estab
lished. The tremendous preparations
by the allied countries, the long de
layed attack until their plans were all
matured, is having telling effect, and
the drive under way will continue until
one or the other breaks down under
the strain. Excepting France the
allied armies had a long rest. The
armies of Germany may be truly said
to have continued the strain without
interruption in a manner to command
the admiration of the world, tho it is
beginning to show the wearing effect
of the wasteful onslaught of the past
three weeks, the intensity of which
has never been equalled in the history
of the world.
That peace will come before the
rigors of another winter sets in is prob
able. Flushed with what has the ap
pearance of victory the first move will
have to come from the central powers.
THE RED MOUNTAIN MINING
DISTRICT DRAWS ATTENTION
Lagre Party Left for that Region Wednes
day Morning to Develop Red Moun
tain Oles Discovery
In the past ten or fifteen years con
siderable more than a hundred thou
sand dollars was spent in looking for
precious metals in the Red Mountain
raining district. The lure of gold has
ever led men, like a Will 0' the Wisp,
to spend time and money in hunting
for precious metals in the bowels of
the earth. It has been said that for
every dollar's worth of go.d taken from
nature's laboratoty two have been
spent, not to take into account the toil
of men who have given their lives to
the alluring occupation of prospecting.
But enough of this speculative philoso
phising, we started to tell our readers
about the latest effort to find valuable
mineral in this much exploited district.
On Wednesday Mr. W. K. Cameron
left for the Red Mountain country with
a large outfit of supplies, including
tools for road making, mining, a black
smithing outfit, camp supplies and a
force of men. Mr. Cameron took an
option on six claims located by Red
Mountain Ole, located some four or
five miles north of the property of the
Chelan Consolidated Mining Company,
where Harrry Krollpfeiffer, now a hard
ware merchant in this town, spent sev
eral years and many thousands of dol
lars in trying to make a paying mine.
The claims were thoroly investigated
some months ago by Mr. Cameron and
his associates. The values of the ore
found were such as to determine them
in making a thoro investigation. An
alysis by numerous assayers showed the
ore to carry silver in large quantities
along with lead, copper and gold. The
price of silver has almost doubled since
the great war began and has more than
doubled the price of many other metals.
Mr. Cameron is encouraged to believe
he has a good thing and will spend
enough money to make a thoro inves
tigation. If matters turn out as he
hopes and believes they will we may
yet see Red Mountain grow into a
famous mineral district. Gold and
all other precious mineral is where you
find it, and has often been found in
I the most unlikely places.
Watch Mr. Cameron's operations.
If he deserves encouragement we will
give him all the publicity he desdrves.
If road and bridge building by the
county authorities is justified, in order
to make the property accessible The
Echo may be relied on to help. It
stands for every legitimate enterprise
that will make two blades of grass grow
where only one grew before. Anything
that will develop the country and help
in the upbuilding and development of
Leavenworth and the country sur
rounding it.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, July 21, 1916
BIEWETT PASS ROUTE
SURE HOST POPULAR
Thru Wenatchee Valley—Open Earliest
and Latest—Most Scenic and Cross
Columbia River on Bridge
The report, circulated in Cle Elum
last Sunday, that a man had be«»
killed on the Blewett pass proved to
be unfounded. While the road was
somewhat slippery between fifty and
seventy-five cars crossed the pass. The
block system, inaugurated by Road
overseer Parish has proved very suc
cessful and expedites the passage of
cars at dangerous meeting points. The
new sections of the road, some of
which is in use on the Kittitas county
side, lowers the grade to a five per
cent basis. Some two thousand feet
on the Chelan county side, at the most
dangerous points, will soon be open
to travel. The four miles between the
summit and the old Blewett mining
camp, being reconstructed under the
supervision of Spencer Blankenship of
the forestry department will, when
completed, make that portion of the
road, not dangerous for autos, but
steep and narrow in places, all come
under the five per cent grade basis.
When completed the Blewett road
must always be the most direct road
of travel between Chelan and Kittitas
counties, because it is much the short
est and lowest pass, open earlier in the
spring and later in the fall, and because
it has scenic attractions not possessed
by any other route.
Because of these facts it will not
only be the best route of intercourse
between citizens of the two counties
but it will be the best route by way of
the Snoqualmie pass route between
the east and west side of the moun
tains, Seattle and Spokane. Every
tourist between the east and west side
of the state want to see the Wenatchee
valley and at Peshastin the Blewett
road connects with the north and south
side of the road down the Wenatchee
river to the Columbia river and the
bridge across the latter river, the only
wagon bridge over that father of waters
in the state.
THE RUSH Of LAND SEEKERS
SHOWS NO SIGNS Of ABATING
Every Train Going to Wenatchee Loaded
—Coming from California and
Other Coast States
Monday afternoon a special train of
ten coaches, made up at Wenatchee,
every seat occupied and the aisles and
platforms crowded, passed thru here.
This was the accumulation of regis
trants who arrived in Wenatchee
over Sunday. On Sunday the registra
tion office is closed. Every other day
and night the work of taking applica
tions goes on.
Four passenger trains pass thru here
every twenty-four hours going east and
as many west, and they all have eight
and ten coaches loaded with land
seekers. The original estimate of 125,
000 will in all probability be reached
by the 27th of the present month,
when the registration closes, and there
is about one chance in a thousand for
a land prize.
Already over 18,000 have registered
at Wenatchee for the Colville land
drawing which will close Saturday nite |
at 12 o'clock. Registration began on
the sth of July and will close on the
22nd, continuing sixteen days and
nights, Sunday excepted. The regis
tration will easily exceed 20,000 and
may closely approximate the original
estimate of 25,000. In this event |
notaries of the county, some tweuty-odd !
in number will receive upwards of
$6,000 to be divided equally, while
the hotels, stores and eating houses of |
the county seat will have taken in from
the registrants the snug sum of not
less than $75,000. Verily, it is an
ill wind that blows nobody good.
Births and Deaths for June
The state board of health reports the
following number of births and deaths!
in Chelan County for the month of ■
June:
Dutriol Blrthi Deathi
Wenatchee (M)* 5 2
Chelan 4 2
Entiat 2 0
Cashmere 5 0
Wenatchee(R)' 8 1
Leavenwoith _. 2 1
26 6
<M*i Incorporated municipality.
ili'i Rural district.
LAMB-DAVIS LUMBER CO.
BRINGS SUIT EOR $42,000
Against Wenatchee Park Land Co.—Some
Thirty-odd Families of Dunkards
Affected
Suit affecting the title to lands in
which some thirty-odd families are in
terested was filed last Friday by the
L.-D. company. The Wenatchee Park
Land company was organized over
five years ago by J. E. Godding,
G. S. Merriam and a nummbr of other
Wenatchee parties. The lands lie
along the Wenatchee river about twelve
miles north of Leavenworth. Over
one hundred thousand dollare was
spent in putting in an irrigation system
and developing the property and mak
iug it desirable for homesteads. Thru
the efforts of Elder Amos Peters some
thirty-odd families of that particular
faith best known as Dunkards, which
translated into English is Baptists,
were induced to settle on the land.
Homes were built by these people,
lands cleared, orchards set out and
much work of one kind and another
done, so that the land is now worth
many times more than it cost. How
the matter will be adjusted between the
purchasers of subdivisions of the orig
inal survey has not been fully deter
mined.
The complaint of the plaintiff states
that the purchasing company has not
paid any of the principle or interest
past due and asks that title to the land
be restored to the vendor. 2560
acres of land is embraced in the tract.
There is a village and postoffice on
the land, known as Plain.
A Bird of Passage
There dropt off here one day this
week a bit of man that gas full of an
cient history, Leavenworth history, and
talked about the timo when the G. N.
railroad was built thru the Cascades.
A shade of sadness passed over his
face when told that Postmaster Taylor,
Jack Smith, John Tholin and a dozen
more old timers that made Leaven
worth their home twenty-five years ago,
all gone. Never to return. Jack
Flannigan, his name. When he lived
here. What his name was before he
came here does not matter. Under
the name of Flannigan he had a fight
here on Saturday March 30, 189S, with
Ed Morrisey, in a fourteen foot ring,
under the rules of the prize ring as they
were then observed and put his man
out in short order, tho his adversary
was a half head taller and some forty
pounds heavier. The way he told his
experience in the presence of Jack
Calder and Dr. Hoxsey about the only
two survivors of those early days, only
the pen of a Mark Twain could do
justice on paper. It was rich in the
slang of a past age. Jack Flannigan
is a son of the Emerald Isle. Lives
in the past more than the present. He
loves to talk of the times and things
that few remember. Since he left
here over twenty years ago has been
around the world. Followed railroad
ing, raining, circusing and fighting as
a side line. One of those birds of
passage that are here today and ou the
other side of the world next week.
i Not a bad sort of fellow as the world
| goes. At home anywhere under his |
hat. Before you read these lines he
| may be in Butte, Montana or Phenix,
Arizona. Good luck to you wherever
you are.
Butter Wrappers at the Echo Office.
PESHASTIN LUMBER CO.
RUNNING NITE AND DAY
125 Men Employed—Order for All the
Fruit Boxes the Mill Can
Turn Out
From Mr. J. C. Biles who was here
Tuesday after a big wire cable shipt
from Seattle, this paper learned that the
mill at the mountain village of Blewett,
on Peshastin creek, beginning the
first of this week will operate its plan
ing mill and box factory night and day.
The sawmill is running on a twelve
and a half hour shift. Mr. Biles, who
is general manager of the mill, says
from now on until the season closes
the mill will run on this schedule un
less something unforeseen takes place.
One hundred and twenty-five men
now find employment in the different
activities carried on by the Peshastin
Lumber Co. New buildings have been
erected to make room for the addi
t onal employes and Blewett presents
a lively aspect.
CHARLES E. AND IAY
BUTTLES Off TO MINES
Near Cady Pass—West Slope of Cascades
—Rich in Copper—lmmense
Ore Body
County Treasurer Buttles, with his
brother, Jay, have for years been inter
ested in what they are sura is an im
rnense body of copper bearing ore in
Cady Pass 25 miles northeast of Index.
For several years they have done con
siderable development work, and for
the past month have had four and five
men at work. Most of this work has
been carried on under the direction of
Jay Buttles while his brother was on
his job as treasurer of Chelan county.
A number of men have examined the
property and everyone has pronounced
it most extraordinary and the character
of the ore rather unusual.
On Wednesday Messrs. Charles and
Jay Buttles, in company with Messrs.
Freeman and Edwards, from Wallace,
Idaho, left here with supplies for the
Cady pass, going by way of Wenatchee
lake and from there up the little We
natchee river. Mr. Buttles says he
has not yet fully determined from
which point to build a road to the
mining property. Index is the nearest
railroad point but the difficulty of
finding a feasible outlet that way may
decide the company owning the prop
erty to build down the Wenaichee
river and strike the Great Northern on
the east side of the mountains.
Vienna Bakery Spreading Out
Taking in more territory, some would
call it. By the removal of the Rainier
Cafe dining room he acquired more
space and doubled the size of his sales
room. He is putting in some wall
show cases and will keep his pastries,
pies and bread under a pre
caution that the public will appreciate.
Preparedness, precaution and preven
tion against the fly nuisance is prac
ticed more and more as we learn about
his unsanitary habits. Mr. Ness will
have a very neat and attractive sales
room when the improvements under
way are completed.
Are You Registered?
You must be registered if you expect
to vote at the primary election this
fall. For city voters the books are
kept ,in the city hall. City Clerk
Brown is registration officer.
Those living outside of the city
limits who have to register will have
to go to the Tumwater Light & Water
office. L. H. Hart is registration officer.
F. C. Buckingham a mining man
who has spent much time here in the
years gone by dropt off yesterday
on his wav from Coeur de Alene, Idaho,
to Alaska, to shake hands with old
friends and incidentally learn something
about the activity in mining, or rather
prospecting, going on in this region.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. It you want
Hi|<h Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
L f. Speidel to Build the Entiat
Warehouse
The contract for the building of the
new community packing plant and
warehouse to be erected at Entiat by
the Entiat Fruit Growers' League was
awarded on Saturday last to Louis F.
Speidel, of Leavenworth, the price be
ing $8695. The building is to be
turned over to the league completed
no later than September 10th.
Contractor Soeidel is now engaged
in winding up the }ob of rebuilding the
Peshastin school building. The peo
of Entiat may rest assured they will
have their building completed on time,
and according to plans and specifica
tions. He has erected more buildings
in Leavenworth in the past six years
than any other contractor, and they all
testify to his ability, while the owners
are among his sponsors.
RAILROAD UP ICICLE RIVER
IS UNDER CONSIDERATION
Parties Left Tuesday to Make Further
Investigation of Route—Project
Not Abandoned
Because nothing has been heard
from the parties who were here a few
weeks ago in consultation with the
people of this town about building a
railroad up the Icicle river it must not
be assumed that the project has been
abandoned. Mr. Neilson, who has
been busy ever since perfecting his
plans, arrived here early Tuesday morn
ing and in company with Mr. J. P.
Johnson, who is one of the men who
was connected with the construction
of the Milwaukee road thru the Cas
cade mountains four years ago accom
panied Mr. Neilson on a trip of inves
tigation of the route up the Icicle
river valley. The party left here about
twelve o'clock Tuesday, making the
trip afoot up as far as Jack creek
where the route of the proposed road
is located to the property of the Vaneo
Mining Co. Mr. Van Epps, locater
of the property is already on the ground
and in company with others interested
in the property left for Jack creek
early in the morning on the «ame day,
Mr. Johnson, who has had experience
in railroad building in the Cascade
mountains will likely be associated
with Mr. Neilson in the construction
work. Procuring the right of way
thru the forest reserve is progressing
but may consume considerable time
as that department was never known
to hurry matters because the promoters
of a project wanted to save time. The
Echo will next week have more defi
nite information to give its readers
about the project. That it has not
been abandoned may be taken for
granted, tho the building of the road
by way of the Icicle valley has not yet
been definitely settled. A proposition
to build the ore carrying road from a
point on the Milwaukee road in Kitti
tas county is under consideration. By
that route the ore from the mines will
have to be carried over the summit of
the mountain by a tram as the mines
are located on the Leavenworth side
of the mountain. It is believed, how
ever, this advantage will decide the
location by way of the Icicle river
route.
Mrs. Grundy Says it Is a Dream
Last Saturday two young ladies left
here bound lor Wenatchee, one of them
holding the iteeriog wheel in the auto
they used to mak-? the week end trip.
When they reached ;h; briJge in the
ea«t end of town they mi-sed it enough
feet to run off the bank. The ma
chine stopped this side of the water
but in the descent lost two wheels.
Now what interesting subject were they
discussing that they forgot to take
account of time space and place and
plunge over the bank? We give it
up. Anyhow, ladies never take any
thing stronger than cider. Its a pipe
dream says Mrs. Grundy. Never hap
pened. You cut it out of the Seattle
Star and tried to locate it in Leaven
' worth.
