v.'
tttttt
11.50 PER YXAB
MT. VEENON, OHIO, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1916 No. 58
ESTABLISHED 1836
MtM0ttklit
Ba
mm
.if
?v
w-
f
X
LA
FOLLM RAPS
NAVY INCREASE
Claims Conditions
Do Not Warrant
Bitterly As
Standpoint Of Finance
Washington, July 20. Senator La
Folletto, discussing tho naval appro
priation bill, made an attack on the
general preparedness program. Ho
held It tho product of notation by
moneyed Interests, aided by the met
ropolitan press.
Most of the session was taken up
with an unsuccessful fight by Sena
tors Oliver and Ponroso on the section
of tho bill providing for a $11,000,000
government armor plant. By a vote
of 51 to 17 tho senate defeated a mo
tion to strike out the section, and
then volad down, 49 to 16, the Oliver
amendment to refer the armor contro
versy to tho federal trade commission
for settlement.
Senator LaJfollette contended, vigor-,
ously that neither conditions confront
ing the nation nor tho testimony giv
en before tho congressional naval
commltteps warranted the proposed
navy increases.
"A total of $844,000,000 Is the load
that goes on tho bended backs of the
American people," he declared. "Why
1b this to bo dono? If It Is necessary
now, why was it not necessary four
years ago? You know then what was
tho naval and military strength of all
of the forolgn countries, but the Inter
ests had not been appealed to then.
Bethlehem Steel at 40 was not Beth
lehem Steel at 040. The interests be
hind this preparedness plan do not
fear Germany or England. The plan
merely fits into their imperialistic
schemes."
Charges Coercion.
The senator charged that men had
been foreod into preparedness pa
rades under threats of having their
wages reduced. Workingmen in
"Washington, ho said, had tnld him
DEUTSCHLAND ALL READY
TO TAKE DEPARTURE
Baltimore, July 20. The submarine
Deutschland will, It Ib believed, de
part soon from this port. There Is evi
dence that tho vessel is ready to
make the dash for Germany. The
berth now occupied by the Doutsch
land will bo taken by her sister sub
mersiblo, tho Bremen, which, It wn
Bald authoritatively, will arrive li
Chesapeake bay next Sunday. A largi
amount of provisions has been taker
aboard tho Deutschland and the Ion'
awaited consignment of fuel oil has
arrived. Every attempt i&5secrecy is
still being made The much discuss
RECLUSE
IS
Washington C. II., O., July 20,
Guarded by nor big watch dog, the
body of Elizabeth Wisecup, fifty-eight,
was found lu an old log cabin two
miles east of hero,, whoro she lived
alono. Marks on tho body indicated
that the woman may havo been tho
victim of fovil play. Tho coroner, who
said she had boen ill several days, is
making a rigid investigation.
A sunny temper gilds tho edges of
life' blackest cloud. Guthrie.
DEAD
Confrontinq Nation
sails Preparedness From
they marched In the demonstration
here for that reason. The larger
newspapers of the country, he declar
ed, were Influenced by the advertis
ing of the "interests" behind the pre
paredness nropneanda to devote most
space to the testimony of witnesses
brfore the congressional committees
who favorpd preparedness.
"A cheapskate of ny business man
-?et a fohiran and a half on the
fiout ppee if ho will boost prepared
i"s." he shouted, "but General
Weaver, who speaks against it, can
not get a line"
cPDntor LaFollette quoted volum
Ino"Rlv from reports of the committee
hrrrincs to prove that the navy Is in
lip'pr sharp than preparedness" advo
cnfpijmaVe it nf near. He Insisted that
IU , stronger than Germany's navy
,anil jiolntoOnttbta.G,rman'y, with a.
nnvv about "ia as large as England's,
hnd bpen iiWp to prevent nn Invasion
cf her territory.
Senators OTver and Penrose, speak
ini' against the arnio'- plate plant pro
posal. Insisted 'that It simplv would
pipin a watte of money now that tho
Bethlehpm Stel company has offered
to furnish nlnte at a price to bo set
by the fedpra' trade commission.
Senator Harding voted In favor of
str'klrte out c? the naval appropria
tion bill the provision for establlsh
mpnt of a government armor plate
fstory. "I have a conviction," ho
said, "that everything the government
is doing hss a tendency to Increase
the cost of production."
Man and Wife Acquitted.
Bellefontaine, O.. July 20. A Jury
found Mr.-and Mrs Sample Wren not
guilty of having knowingly received
stolen goods as charged in an indict
ment. ed bag of mail from the German em
bassy has been turned over to Captain
Koonig. x
At midnight the two spars of the
Deutschland were taken down and the
conning tower closed.
Wants Hughes at Ohio State Fair.
New York, July 20. Representative
Simeon D. Fess of Ohio extended In
person today an Invitation to Charles
E. Hughes, candidate for president, to
attend tho Ohio State fair and dollver
an address on Aug 30. In doing so,
Dr. Fess represented the Ohio State
Fair association.
IS
Flndlay, O., July 20. Further lltlga-
tlon Involving the Toledo-Findlay Tiro
and Rubber company developed when
Marlon Kelley, a stockholder, filed
suit against Silas W. Drelsbach, a
stock salesman, charging fraud In the
sale of stock and asking Tor damages.
The company is now in the hands of
tho court, a receiver operating it.
It is not posterity, but your actions,
that will nemvtnntn vnnr mpmnrv.
,--,.. H.v ,, ... . ..
Bonaparte.
FRAUD
CHARGED
OFFICIAL PHOTOS SHOW HOVT BRITISH
KUT HELD tiUT UNTIL
r;r. r &&9?iwtzvwzwcipav.'2yiivs3iw?:mri . . i" '2V-3r .','. wtMMmvtx&uviJETr m.-&&tiri&za'j'zmf4
. " 'W'JOTl- 1 is-
ffsp 3&MMrti'
w,
I
MARSH
AL FOUN
Medina, O., July 20. Marshal Hen
ry Ij. Blakeslee was found guilty of
manslaughter in the killing here April
18 of Night Watchman John H. Gates.
Blakeslee will rsU for. a now trial,
Gates was shot to death in the street
es.rly in the morning. Blakeslee was
found wounded in a haymow. He con
fessed to shooting Gates and to at
Portsmouth. O., July 20. Madison
Powell, sixty-seven, bachelor, one of
Scioto county's richest fanners, was
found dead at his home near Lucas
villo. He was shot through the heart.
Tho body was found by F. M. Nelson,
an employe. Powell had a hammer
clasped in his hand. About ?400 Is
missing.
Cleveland, July 20. Health Officer
Bishop quarantined the Protestant or
phanage, after Dr. Jiartin Friedrlch
had diagnosed Illness of nine children
as smallpox., Eighty children are in
tho home, according to Superintend
ent E, J. Henj-v. He said only one
child was 111 In bed.
Unreasonable.
Mrs. Shnrpc (-everolyt Nornh. I can
And only seven of these pl.ttes. Wheie
are the other five? Cook (In surprise!
Sure, mum. don't ye moke no r.llow
ance for oidlnnry wear an" tear
FARMER SHOT;
MONEY GONE
NINE CASES
SMALLPOX
Striking testimony to the grim en
durance whlchv General Townsend
and his gallantttroopsat Kut-el-Amara
had- heltr'out'ff?'ii'?eface- of suffering
and privation was afforded by the
emaciated condition of the sick and
wounded who were magnanimous
ly permitted by the Turkish com-
tempting suicide. Ho claimed solf-de-fense
The two men had been enemicii
following Blakeslee's. defeating Gatc3
for marshal last fall.
The only competition worthy n wise
man is with himself. Mrs. Jameson.
Gftlllpolis. O,, Julr20.Cnptaln Ed
ward Woodward of this city, forty
eight, superintendent of the Otto Jfur
met Hue of lowboata and one of tho
best known towboat commanders in
the Cincinnati and Kanawha river
trade, fell dead on hoard the steamer
Little Marmet, at Raymond City.
in taxe:
rindlay, O.. July 20?-Ono corpora
lon paid two-thirds of Findlay's taxes
when the Ohio Oil company gavo
nearly $120 000 to tho county, treas
urer. The Si5.000.000 corporation has
returned the greater part of its prop
erty In Findla for taxation.
Railroad Si-'d For $45,000,000.
St. Louis Julv 20. Basil B. Elmer
ind William Phillips, representing
New York ''end 'olders, Spoyer &
Company and T & W. Sollgmann &
Company purtia cd the St. Louis and
Sun Krar.'lc o railroad at auction
heie The we price was $45,700,200
D GUILTY
MANSLAUGHTER
FALLS DEAD
0N DOAT
!il20,000
AT m RMTriCWT
NEAR STARVATION" AoAStWIbNI
mander to be sent through to the
British lines In order to receive ade -
medical attention. The larger"B- luo "8 "e ynromcieo. oy
.-.. 1 .lu .1 lJI, ll.,,ll,
PiurB c,c,u. ou ...-... v - -
ing cases- tenaeriy assimea y a "neBnn8 agalnst tho British, along tho
of helpers. The Inserted picture de-Euphrates river and north of the Per
plcts a Red Cross orderly carrying asian gulf near Basra. In addition, tho
youthful British soldier on his backTurks are declared to have defeated
to the hospital tents. the Italians In northern Tripoli at
Mlsratah.
. m m op. i British Reoccupy Positions.
WILL BE WEEK BEFORE
OLJin TBfinDQ E M T 13 A I M bombardment and an attack by 'neavy
UniU I filly IU LN I nttlll infantry forces which gave to the Teu-
tons the village of Longueval and Del-
vllle wood.
i i is nnn t a n nnn n j In counter attacks tho British sue
NOOrlV 4,000 01 I 2,000 GUardS-ceede1 in "gaining most of the ter-
men "Weeded Out,"
regl -
Columbus, July 20. If
Ohio
ments are to be fitted out with equip-south r tne Somme the French report
ment "C" before leaving for the bor-the capture of everal German
trenches,
der, it probably will be at least a jaounA Verdun, in the region of Htll
week, perhaps a month, before any 304 and on tho pieury sector, the Ger
Buckeye troops entrain. Colonel Duf-mans nre heavily bombarding tho
fy, quartermaster general, said thatF,,-,! positions. probably presaging
no railroad cars to haul troops to the the usual infantry attacks,
border will be in Columbus for a
week, under present orders.
After having weeded out nearly
4,000 of the 12.000 Ohio guardsmen
who reported to the Upper Arlington
mobilization camp, federal examiners
expect to complete their work late
tn,,v
"m . .1 . r, -, ,
Tho population of Camp Willis has
been reduced from about 13,000 sol -
diers to S.330 by physical examlna -
i i. ..,,! .... i.
tlons, the mustering out of married
men and desertions. Men absent with -
out leave who are brought back to
,camp are being fined ?2 and given
two clays at hard labor. Those caught CatuNatlve T Mffio 75.
and brought back after an absence of stoker,, nna toners, J3 25?8 25; cow
ten days or more will be courtmar-und heifers. $2 3509 10: calve. $S 50J?12
tlaled and possibly given a term in How l.tsht. ?9 r.of?i0: mixed. 59 30
tho federal pen at Fort Leavenworth." .'.JJj.fg10 ": roushs' M 20
Colonel J. Guy Doming of the Sec- ' Rhp n'd '.a'mbVcthers. J6 75
ond regiment reports that one cap-8 30; lamb. ?7rio 40
ta'n, G. M. Radabaugh of Company K, neecipts-cattie, nooorhoss, 24,ooor
St. Marys, and a number of the Sec-BheeP nna 'a"1"- 11Lc,Klr, T ,
end's lieutenants, were eliminated by Cattl&choIcLfEptLeD'jSJu69-0i0.
tho examiners. butcher stoeri. $7 "lOiffS 60; helfers.$7 25
A record was broken when threes 25; bulls ?5 oOafi 50; cows. $3 505J6:
companies of the Second, C of Lima, choice calve. $11 1 W12.
. .. j , , ir.i t Hosts Yorkers. J10 Oo; heavies and mr.
u ui oji.iimui u.m 1 n. ,, '" ,' " dlum. flO 10; pigs, 9 75; roughs, $8 75;
by without a man being disqualified stags, $7 50.
because of eyesight. Sheep and Lamb Wether, J7CB7 50;
War department officials wired thatews, J" StW "; lambs,. S10 60.
v IvT ,i .i, ni,t -n, nro mnrfv Itecelpts C ittle. 150; hotrs, 1,000; sheep
by the time the Ohio troops are ready nna 500. ca,ves ,00i
to go to the border there will be tour- Pittsburgh, July 20.
1st sleepers for all. These sleepers cattle Choice fnt steers, J8 7510;
will not all be at Camp Willis, awalt-miteher steer fi;9; heifers, $7 7508 10;
ing the order to send the troops, butu3. " w- 75; cows, $3 7507 50;
thoy can be assembled on short no-10,' , heavy Torker
tlCO. JtO lBffrio i light Yorkers, $10010 05;
Ohio trooos will be paid at Colum-plgs, ?n 71010
bus beforo leaving for the border. Rhcp d Mmiw-Top sheep, $8; top
This was tho positive conclusion ,amebcp?t JLtio. 2 00; sheep and lambs,
reached by Senator Pomerene In aj.ooo; calve .!).
conference he had with Secretary of Cincinnati, July 20
XVnv Tinker ' Cattle Steer., $r, 50I'! 50: heifers. ?5i
war uuutr. f 1B ccVill u ,!(fl(. -3. calveSf jSian 75
Aii. uri m;nnnnn ?hAil Hogs raekcrs and butchers. J9 75ife
Allies Hurl 10,500,000 Shells. , 9 S5. cnmmo l0 rnoIc... $7S 30; pU
London, July 20. Half a million nna llirht. J6 intrr R5. stag, J66 75.
shells daily since Juno 27, or a total
f nhnnt KinOOOOO. have been hurl pd
on the German lines by thS British.
IN THE STRUGGLE
British Recover Most of Ground
Lost In the Sotnme,
FRENCH REPORT PROGRESS
Capture Several German Trenches
South cf the River Teutons Bom
barding French Positions In the
Verdun Sector Hlndenbyrg'a Men
Repulse Slav Onslaughts Opera
tions On Other Battle Fronts.
London, July 20. The Russians In
the vicinity of Riga are hammering
hard with infantry and artillery Field
Marshal Von Hlndenburg's forces, but
according to Btrlin all their attacks
thus far havo failed, with heavy
losses. Further south, in Volhynia,
the Russians along the Stokhod river
and to the west and southwest of
Lutsk, are heavily bombarding tho
positions of tho Teutonic allies.
While Petrograd asserts that the
Russians In Galicia are advancing to
ward the passes of the Carpathian
mountains, leading to the plains of
Hungary, Vienna says that southwest
of Delatyn the Austrians have driven
tno Russians back across the River
Pruth.
German naval aircraft have drop
ped a large number of bombs on
Reval, in tho Gulf of Finland, causing,
according to Berlin, damage to Rus
sian cruisers, troop boats and subma
rines in the gulf and to military es
tablishments on land,
In Asia Minor, south of Trebizond,
aidIUonal Bains for tho Russians
"""' " v,uusuuiuuuJre ic-
ports slight successes for the Turkish-
There has been no abatement in the
sanguinary struggle between the Brit
ish and Germans north of the Somme,
which began Tuesday, after a German
dispersed with their artillery fire a
large body of Germans who were
massing for another attack to the
south or Delvllle wood. Hard fighting
is still going on in this sector. To the
LIVE STOCK AND GRAIN
. EAST BUFFALO. July 20.
Cattle Shipping stoor?, JSS10: butcher
steprs, V! 50; heifers. 6e8 50; cows.
$407 BO; bulK J5fi7 50- fresh cows and
sprlnj:er. 5W110: calves. J4 50i?13.
hoijs Hravv and mixed, $1 S010 33;
Yorkers, $ 75W10 30; pIrs, J9 75; roushs,
6 5?9: stas- B W50J E0-
Sheep and L.ambs Yearllnss, $5 50i?
9. wethers. f7 57-88 :5; ewes, J7 50;
lambs, ?7ifno 60.
TJecolpts Cittle, 300; hos. s,200; sheep
ana ambs- sn0: calve- 10-
Sheep and I.ambs Sheep $2 506 50.
Iambs, ?" si 1 1
10
anTrnC 3.C00.
-Cattle,
400, hogs. 1,800; sheep
BANDITS ARE
REPULSED
Villa Followers And Bandits
Are Beaten Off
Attack Garranza Supply Trafo".
anil Kill Six Soldiers,
MAIN BANG SORELY PRESSED
Eight Hundred Followers of Bandit
Leader Making Their Way Toward
the Durangb Border Pursued by
General Ramos' Troops Confer
ence at Washington Reports Profli
ress Mexican Situation.
El Paso, Tex., July 20. According
to private dispatches received here,
six government soldiers were killed
In the Vlllista attack upon a Carran
zlsta supply train at Palomas, Chihua
hua. The bandits, it Is .added, were
driven off.
Other reports reaching hero salct
that a bar i df about fifty outlaws, un
der Nicholas Hernandez, also Is oper
ating in the vicinity of Palomas;
whlch Is about thirty-three miles
southwest of Chihuahua City and
fifteen miles east of Santa Ysabel. It
is believed here that the remnants of
the band under Martin Lopez, which
was beaten off by the train guard in
tho attack. 'may attempt to effect a
Junction with, this command. Lopez
,is a brother of Pablo Lopez, recently
executed at Chihuahua City, for par
ticipation in the massacre of eighteen
Americans at Santa Ysabel last Jan
nary. The dispatches reaching here said'
that the Villa followers had been able
to seize none of the supplies and indi
cates that their dead numbered seven.
The main band of Villa followers,
making Its way through tho Rio Flor
ida bottoms toward the Durango bor
der, consists of less than 800 men,
and Is being- sorely pressed by Gen
eral Matias Ramos' troops, accordlng."
to Mexican reports.
PROGRESS REPORTED
Acting Secretary Polk and Mexican
Ambassador Hold Meetings.'
Washington, July 20. Preliminary
negotiations between Acting Secre-"
tary Polk and Eliseo Arredondo, Mex
ican ambassador designate, for peace
ful settlement of border difficulties,
progressed so well that a formal an
nouncement "very soon" as to the
course to be followed was officially
predicted.
The conferees met twice. Later Mr.
Arredondo telegraphed a report to his
government and Mr. Polk prepared a
similar report for Secretary Lansing,
now on his vacation, and probably
will talk the situation over with Pres
ident Wilson.
Henri" P. Fletcher, ambassador des
ignate to Mexico, was present at bot'a
conferences, Interpreting whenever it
was necessary to Insure a clear under
standing. It is understood the discus
sions dealt particularly with the pow
ers to be conferred upon a Joint com
mission should that plan of settlement
bo followed.
Cleveland, July 20. II. F. Meyer
was shot and probably fatally wound
ed In front of his home In Lakewood
by a pair of early taxlcab bandits
Meyer was shot In the abdomen when
he showed fight. The bandits escaped.
Three Russian Transports Sunk.
Berlin, July 20. Three large enomy
transports were sunk by submarines
In the eastern part of the Black sea
and a fourth was forced to run ashore,
according to an official statement
from the Turkish admiralty received
here. Since the Grand Duke Nicholas
assumed command In the Caucasus
and began his offensive, the Russians
have moved many thousands of troops
to the Caucasus by Bteamer rather
than by marches overland.
SHOT BY
BANDITS
Ha
-y
Mfr
m
1
i
