§\ o<l<l TTtTTT >i >.
\V)\/twv^w w //V
f .3,^SW/i A/ivAVJt (j\, I .VVi
TWELFTH YEAR. No.
t'OM MI'MC ATE I).
As tlelil assessor 1 learned tlie luter
, is In the subject of taxation.
There is but one point on which all
-tec -that taxes are too high. In
.Bite of the Interest shown, I was Un
used with the general ignorance on
the subject, and this is surprising when
oue considers that taxes affect every
Bißi woman and child in the country.
The high taxes are attributed to al
gget every conceivable source from
“graft” up. R is a good deal easier to
veil "graft'’ than it is to study and
lid the reason and intelligently meet
Many people have their minds on the
eipenditures of the eomuy officers,
who in fact spend a very small part of
die taxes (several of the county offi
ces are nearly self supporting by the
fees collected) and pay very little at
* tentlon to the subject of school boards,
who have the expenditure of the lar
gest Item of public funds. Take school
district No. IT for instance, in which
ijH town of Orovllle is located, it is
not generally known, but it is true,
Ifcatover 48 per cent of all taxes paid
(outside of the incorporation) goes to
the support of our educational system,
local and state. There is a sacredness
surrounding our public schools that
makes the payment of its taxes a com
paratively easy duty, but we should not
overlook the expenses of the school
boards in considering taxes.
One-fourth of our taxes goes to the
building and maintenance of roads and
bridges. This Is a big item and should
receive the earful consideration of all
tax-payers.
Aside from the school and road ex
pMdilurea, the expenses of running
the state and county government are
NBparatively small, amounting to
(boat one-fifth of the total tax.
’ Following is a table showing how
tba 1915 xes were applied:
lebool (local and state) 48.54 per cent.
■bid and bridges 24.76 per cent.
taaral expenses (state and
county 22.58 per cent.
Memptlon 4.12 per cent.
. - 1 Total ... .100.00 per cent.
For he last month I have been in
the office of the county assessor and
have acquainted myself somewhat with
the work of the county officials, and I
unconvinced that it would be hard to
get a better, more efficient or harder
corking lot than are present incum
bants.
Then the question, ‘‘Why the high
taxes?” This is a pertinent question.
However, some facts should be born
in mind to properly grasp the situation.
Laying aside the subject of taxes for
school purposes, which is the largest
item, being largely a local question and
which can be settled only by the voters
and directors of the local school dis
trlcta, let us look at the county expen
ditures. We have the largest county in
the state comprising over four million
acres, it is one of the roughest, most
ipsreely settled and least developed,
in fact, out of the four million acres
only three per cent are assessed as
improved lands, or less than five and
one-half townships. That very small
area also implies a correspondingly
small amount of taxable personal prop
erty. In addition to the three per cent
of improved lands there are only nine
per cent more of privately owned lands
of which one per cent is timber land.
This means that only one-eighth of this
county is subject to taxation. The other
seven-eighths is lying waste in timber
reserves, Indian reservations, Indian
allotments, and waste lands. This vast
Idle territory requires general county
supervision, and the- construction and
maintenance of roads over rough areas
and in many oases, the maintaining of
schools in very sparoely settled dis
tricts. Is it any wonder that taxes ac
cumulate on those who do the paying?
It Is a healthy sign to see the tax
payers beginning to inform themselves
and to form into road and tax organi
sations. Some efficient workable plan
3 still needed to economically con
atruce and maintain our public road
system, which apparently is where tlie
greatest waste lias occurred.
AH agree that every effort should be
made to reduce the present rate of
taxation. This county needs new eap
•al and new blood to develop our enor
mous resources, hut we are offering
anything but encouragement by our
nigh taxes.
P, M. SNIDER.
_ ——
he Wenatchee World reports a case
® Infantile paralysis at Cashmere. It
3 to be hoped that there has been a
mistake in the diagnosis, for it would
* a calamity if that dread disease
8 ould make its appearance in this
state.
hlm allone >' has purchased the
uildlng on the south side of the track
formerly owned by J. H. Holmes, and
*• rented it to A. S. Pratt, who will
ov « his notion store and pool room
r °ni the east side of the street and
“eupy the building
A WITH SEEDED HIGHWAY.
Already during the present summer
and a short period of favorable weather
at that., a great many auto excursion
ists hve stopped over in Oroville on
their way Into British Columbia, or
from British Columbia Into the state
although the travel from the north Is’
nothing to compare with what It was
before the breaking out of the war, or
will be when peace is again establish
ed. This travel is bound to Increase
Rom year to year as the auto becomes
more extensively In use, and the
knowledge of the scenic beauty of such
a trip becomes more generally known.
In order to invite, hold and Increase
that travel, the roads of this county
should be placed In better condition,
and especially it Is of vital Importance
that state road No. 10 be made a pri
mary highway, and every means possi
ble exerted to have It completed
throughout the length of the valley.
With this road completed in a per
manent manner between the British
Columbia boundary and Wenatchee, it
would become one of the great arterial
highways connecting up with the Sun
set highway over which a vast amount
of travel would pass every year.
This completion of State road No.
10 is not a matter of solely local in
terest. It immediately Interests the
people of every town along the route
from Wenatchee to Orovllle. There Is
not a more attractive stretch of road In
the west. The road follows the Colum
bia river from Wenatchee to the point
where it diverges In order to touch
Lake Chelan, one of the most beautiful
sheets of water on the American con
tinent. From Chelan the road returns
to the Columbia and then continues on
up the Okanogan valley, than which
there is not a more charming drive in
the west. The greater part of the dis
tance Is almost on a water level, with
out heavy grades or dangerous points.
Every mile of this route presents an
attractive view to the traveler. Road
No. 10 is one of the most necessary and
Important highways of the great rami
fication of state roads so far laid out.
Its Importance appeals to all who have,
ever been over it. relizing as they must
that it is a connecting link with the
splendid road system of British Colum
bia. Road No. 10 should he completed
at as eary a date as possible, and it
should be the special duty of every res
ident in Chelan and Okanogan counties
to use every effort to secure appropria
tions for that purpose.
A PLEASANT PARTY.
One evening last week Mrs. Willis
Frary, of I.oomis, gave a party in hon
or of Misses Eva and Eclare Johnston
in the old Odd Fellows hall, which was
largely attended by the young people
of the place and the party proved to he
one of the most delightful social events
that have taken place in Loomis for
many months. Among those who were
present were; Misses Marie Metras,
Gladys Shull, Clo Shull, Myrtle Sting,
Ethel Chedzay, Lolo Gadbury, Blanche
Mustard, Raynetta Inman, Eva Adair,
Bessie O'Farrell. Opal Kinchelo, Lucile
Douglass, Ethel Gormley, Izora
Dokken, Kitty Holbert and Cassle Hol
hert, Messrs. Bert Powell, Howard
Johnson, Mr. Cochren, Johnnie Renn,
Arthur Wheeler, Leo Metras, John
Melcher, Crynai Brown, Bert Gadherry,
Ferris Ford, Paul Smith, Ray Kin
chelo, Al. Judd, Clarence Holbert, Hor
ten Robinson, Geo. Johns and Lon Gad
berry.
EAST ORCHARD TRACTS,
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Spencer and son
Hadley visited Mr, and Mrs. H. H. Fell-
my last week. Mr. Fellmy has a 280
acre ranch near Kllisforde, and Mr.
Spencer says It is a fine one. Mr. Fell
my'a wheat, oats, corn, potatoes and
field peas will make a bumper crop. He
has over three miles of fencing on his
ranch, which shows some labor and
expense. About five years ago Mr. Fell
my bought a relinquishment, then ad
ded an extra homestead, and now has
a ranch worth five or six thousand dol
lars. Also a nice herd of cattle and
several horses, which shows what a
young man with pluck and energy ami
stlcktoltlveness .in this western coun
try can do.
Mark Sawfelle and W. Thair have
been working on the Irrigation ditcli
which was washed out by a recent
cloud burst, near Nighthawk. We un
derstand the damage done amounted
to about SBOO.
The recent rains were 0.k., for the
Orchard Tracts, and we expect to show
some fruit this fall that, will be an eye
opener.
• ROXY.
Mrs. H. N. Martin, Miss Norma Mar
tin and Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Anderson,
of Davenport, arrived In Oroville by
auto, coming up the valley, Wednesday
and left for their homes Thursday
morning, going by the way of Grand
Forks.
DESTROYED-BY FIRE,
s,it Ut ; nl, !" lght Wednesday night the
, ek of a locomotive followed bv the
hoarse roar of the siren summoned the
Ire department to the far south east
"“o' town ’ w * lere S. F. McDonald’s
> titling works were a mass of flames.
, Ms ,() distance from the water
mains only the chemical engine reach
ed the scene, and by that time the
building was merely a mass of em
’crs The fi le was ( . onfine(l t() the Qne
building and the loss total. The build
ing and contents, consisting of up-to
date bottling machinery were owned by
S ' *' M cUona| d. and originally cost
some $2,200. The works have not been
in operation for nearly a year, and as
there has been no one around the
premises for some time the fire was
undoubtedly incendiary. Thos. H.
Smith, who held a mortgage on the
place for s:ir.O, had a policy in the
New Zeland Fire Insurance company
covering the amount of the policy, Mr.
McDonald carried no insurance.
"HV THE THL'SNESS OP THISI
(From the Gazette of July 7th.)
"Or. D. H. Lewis left for Spokane
Monday lor the purpose of bringing
home his wife and children, who have
been visiting with relatives and friends
in that city.”
"Or. O. H. Lewis returned from his
trip to Spokane Wednesday night, but
without his family. Mrs. Lewis and the
children will remain in Spokane an
other fortnight, when the doctor will
go out and bring them back in his car.”
What’s the matter doctor? YOU hav
en't umpired any ball games In Spring
dale this season, so there is really no
reason for you to dodge, yet every time
you visit here Dallam refuses to let
you stop this side of Spokane. Can’t
you Just whisper quietly to him that
Springdale is still on the map?—
Springdale Reformer.
pioneeToT picnic.
The annual picnic of the Okanogan
County Pioneer’s Association will be
Tieid’at tfoncbnuily August l? and 19,
1916. A good program of speaking,
singing and other forms of entertain
ment is being prepared, to which all
are cordially invited.
DAVID GiTBSER. Sec’y.
•«»>■
MARRIED AT PENTICTON.
Mrs, J. (!. Hare sends to this office
the fallowing announcement:
Married —At Penticton, B. C., May 5,
1916, Beverley B. Powell and Miss
Marie Louise Studley, both of Orovllle.
The bride is the daughter of Mrs. J.
0. Hare and the groom the youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Powell, Sr.,
and both well known members of the
younger set.
EPISCOPAL*SERVICE.
There will be services in the Epis
copal church Sunday, July 23, at 11
o’clock, T. F. Wessels, who Is station
ed at Okanogan, officiating. Everybody
cordially invited to attend. Sunday
school at Ibe usual hour in Hie morn
ing.
M. E. SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Epworth
League at 7 p. in. Preaching service at
8 p. in. Subject of sermon; “The
Deatli of Christ.” Everybody welcome;
everybody Invited; everybody come.
The homelike church and the stran
ger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor,
Fred Neal reports that he has ship
ped seven car loads of manganese ore
from (lie mine that he has under bond
located near Omak, and that the re
turns have been so favorable that ship
ments will continue indefinitely. Tills
is good news as showing that paying
mineral can be mined in this county.
The world do move and people
change as the old earth skids along. A
floating printer filtered into town last,
week, in the normal condition of all
tramp printers, dead broke. This office
ns Js the custom, staked the visitor to
a small amount. It is a religious habit
Indulged in for nearly 60 years. Mr.
Print promised to return the "loan.”
The same promise has been made us
a thousand times, and never once In
the thousand times has the print re
membered the obligation. We forgot
tile circumstance as soon as the old
antimony jerker made his exit from
the office. But hats off. This seems to
have been a regenerated print. Imag
ine our surprise this week upon re
ceiving the money advanced by mail.
Wo could hardly believe our eyes. It
is such an unheard of case that it is
considered worthy of special mention,
and will be appreciated by the older
members of the craft who can re
member when the type sticking tour
ist, with a weakness running strongly
to rum, was a common visitant at a
print shop with the mitt always out for
a donation.
OROVILLE, WASHIN VTON.JULY 21, 1910
Registrations for drawings in the
Colville Indian reservation lands clos
es Saturday night at 12 o’clock. If
there are any residents of Oroville
who desire to take a gamble they must
be on hand today or tomorrow to get
into the game. During the week a vast
number of people have registered in
the six places where registration of
fices are open. Looking at this regis
tration business at this time it Is evi
dent that it was unwise In selecting
six registration points, for only a
comparatively few registered at Wil
bur, Republic and Colville. Even the
registrations at Omak fell thousands
short of what was anticipated. It was
but natural to expect that Spokane and
Wenatchee would secure the vast bulk
of the applicants for the drawing. The
total number promises to reach close
to 100,000. It will be a long shot for a
prize, as the chances are about one In
a thousand. Still somebody is bound
to win and you stand Just as good a
chance as the next one.
Mrs. Overman and her daughter Miss
Eva arrived In Oroville Wednesday for
a short visit. The Overmans were for
merly residents of Oroville and have
a large circle of friends who would be
pleased exceedingly to have them re
turn permanently.
H. B. Stafford and Marshal Wilson
left Wednesday on the south train for
Lake Chelan, where they will devote
two weeks to recreation, which means
fishing and boating. A more pleasant
spot for an outing could not be select
ed. We expect to hear some hot fish
stories when the boys return.
M. K. Faulkner, a brother of J. W.
Faulkner, and the youngest of nine
brothers, is spending a tew days in
Okanogan. Mr. Faulkner is living at
Oroville, and desired to register for the
land drawing, but found that his 2lst
birthday came Just a few days too late
to make him eligible.—Okanogan In
dependent.
The special election in the West
OkuMogan Valley Irrigation district to
\*ole on the issuance ot additional
bonds takes place tomorrow, Saturday
afternoon. Every property holder un
der the system is entitled to a vote,
and as a favorable vote is necessary
for the beat interests of the district the
issue should he supported.
From the Baxter Springs (Kan.),
Nows it is learned that Mrs. T. H.
Goodwin, mother of Miss Hazel Good
win, recently died in that city of can
cer. Residents of Oroville will remem
ber Miss Goodwin, who taught in the
public school of this place during the
school term of 1914-15, and her old
friends extend to her their sincere con
dolence.
Leonard Davis of Oroville, who Is
spending the summer with relatives at
tlie Davis ranch, has been ordered by
his physician to remain in bed for eight
weeks, on an exclusive diet of eggs and
cream, in a valiant fight to recover his
normal good health. Mr. Davis has the
sympathy of the community in his en
forced confinement.—Okanogan Inde
pendent.
L. W. Barnes, the Oroville under
taker. included Okanogan in an itiner
ary Saturday that had also included
Loomis, Conconully and Riverside. Mr.
Barnes had not previously had an op
portunity to visit the new court house,
and added his conclusions to the many
that pronounce it a structure worthy
of the county and an economy in gen
eral.—Okanogan Independent.
B. E. Davies and Clara Dunn were
married Wednesday evening by Justice
E. E. Parsons, and following the cere
mony a reception was tendered the
happy couple by the young friends of
the bride, who attended higli school
during the past two or three years, at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Bartell.
Mr. and Mrs. Davies were the recip
ients of many congratulations. They
will make their home at Butte.
L. W. Barnes, as one of the commit
tee appointed to raise funds for the
proposed new hospital, wrote to Sears,
Robuck & Co., the mail order house,
for a donation toward the enterprise,
setting forth that as the firm was re
ceiving a large patronage from this
place and locality it could afford to
come across handsomely. Mr. Barnes
was not modest in his appeal, as he
touched the firm for S3OO, or there
abouts. Much to Mr, Barnes’ surprise,
and the surprise of everybody else, the
mail order octupus let go of SSO. The
donation was as much appreciated as
it was unexpected, and it kind of pulls
the teeth of the oft repeated charge
that, mail order houses never con
tribute to local enterprises. It is al
together probable that the only reason
that the donation was forthcoming was
because Mr. Barnes enclosed with his
letter soliciting the contribution a
clipping from the Gazette, in which
mail order houses were charged with
taking large suras out of every com
munity and never putting anything
back in return.
THE LAST CHANCE.
SHOOTING SCRAPE.
Monday evening between 5 and 0
o’clock, Sanplerre, a well known In
dian of the north part of the county,
shot a half-breed named Tom Simpson
at John Tllson’s place, at the head of
Nine-mile creek, near the British Col
umbia line, and a few miles east of
Oroville. A bullet from a 32-calabre
revolver struck Simpson in the fore
head, fairly between the eyes. The
wounded man was brought to Oroville
and is being treated by Dr. Lewis. As
far as could be ascertained upon an
examination of the wound, the bullet
passed Into the head below the bruin
and has not as yet been located. At
the time of writing Sampson was still
alive with the chances of recovery in
his favor.
According to the story of the affair
as told Dr. Lewis by the wounded man
Simpson, it appears that Simpson was
sitting in a buggy at the Tolson ranch
when Sanpierre rode up on hqrse back
drunk. Some words passed between the
two men when Sanpierre drew a re
volver and fired with the result us
stated.
Deputy Sheriffs Clair Ward and Ed.
Burden scoured the surrounding hills
to the eastward all of Monday night
in search of the fugitive, while Sheriff
Stark, who happened to be in Oroville,
with Marshal Wilson put in the night
ransacking the valley without results.
Sanpierre has an unsavory reputa
tion. He is a general bad Indian, and
has earned the title ot “Jack the Ha
per.” He has been under arrest before
and punished for misdemeanors. It was
Sanpierre who attempted an assault
on a young white woman a few years
ago, a short distance down the valley
from Oroville and was frightened from
his victim by the accidental and timely
appearance of travelers on the road.
He has no doubt skipped across the
tine, and the officers feel confident
that his arrest is a question of only a
few days.
Later—Tuesday evening, within 24
hours of the tragedy, Sanpierre was
arrested at the home of an Indian liv
ing on the Kettle river, between Mid
way and Curley. Sheriff Stark and
Deputies Ward and Burden picked up
the fugitive's trail, and his whera
bouts was tipped off by an Indian wo
man. Upon reaching the house Ward
and Burden stood guard at the front
and rear doors and Stark went to the
room in the second story, occupied by
Sanpierre and forced the door. San
pierre wilted as he faced a big gun in
the hands of the officer of the law.
The prisoner was brought through
Oroville about 4 o'clock Wednesday
afternoon in an auto, guarded by Stark
and Ward, en route for Okanogan.
Ernest Riste and George I. Cole
were visitors at the county seat Mon
day on business connected with the
irrigation district,
A customs officer has been appoint
ed to assume the duties of the office
at this place to fill the vacancy made
by the death of the late L. D. Oliver,
and is expected to arrive in a few
days.
The old court house at Conconully
was sold at auction to the town of
Conconully, Monday, for the munificent
sum of |l5O. That property cost the
tax payers of the county thousands of
dollars.
Will Irby, an Oroville boy who lias
been going to medical college at Kan
sas City, is connected with the hos
pital corps of the army, and is now at
Loredo, Texas, with the army on the
border.
Geo. H. Ellis came up from Spokane,
via Wenatchee, Tuesday evening. He
reports that thousands of people are
going to Wenatchee to file for the land
drawing, that the hotels are swamped
as well as the restaurants.
Mentioning the prospective depar
ture of L. L, Work to other fields, the
Okanogan Independent says: "Mr.
Work pioneered in the bunking busi
ness of this county, and until a few
years ago controlled a string of banks
that reached from Twisp to Chesaw.
He has been a constant and persistent
booster for all the resources of the
county, and his departure will mean
the loss of one of the most substantial
citizens of North Central Washington.”
Under the appropriate heading will
be found the announcement of Hugh
Miller, as a candidate for commissioner
from the First district, subject to the
decision of the republican voters at
the primary election. Mr. Miller is the
present commissioner from the First
district and is up for reelection. Mr.
Miller has carried fair for all parts of
his district during the past two years
and his record is of a character that
will win him a strong support at the
primary. He has taken a keen interest
in the affairs of the county, and has
especially lent his aid for the better
ment of roads. Mr. Miller has a large
acquaintance in the district, which
gives him a great leverage as a candi
date for office.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of I Ire regular meeting of the
town council of Oroville, Washington,
July 17, 1910.
Present, Mayor Samson, Couucilmeu
Frlis, Beale and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved us read.
Motion was made and carried that
the town treasurer be instructed to
transfer $27. r >.OU from the water com
pany fund to the current expense fund.
The matter of the town paying part
of the construction of a new bridge
across the Okanogan river was discuss
ed and was laid on the table for fur
their discussion.
ij. H. Prentice appeared before the
council asking that some action be
taken in regard to the charge for wa
tor on the Edwards place and the clerk
was Instructed to measure the ground
that is being irrigated and adjust the
rate accordingly.
The matter of designating streets
through (lie town as connecting links
for the state highway that at present
has been located up to the town limits
on the north and south of the town
was discussed and the following reso
lution was read and adopted.
"Be It resolved by the town Council
of the Town of Orovllle, State of Wash
ington:
“That the following streets be and
are hereby designated as the stale
highway through the Town of Oroville,
connecting with the state road now lo
cated on the north and south of town.
' Commencing at the east end of the
bridge across the Slinilkameeu river
at the west end of Cherry street, runn
ing east on Cherry street to Main street
and thence north on Main street to and
across the Great Northern railroad
tracks, thence north on Vancouver
street to First avenue, thence west on
First avenue to the west line of Slmil
kameen avenue, thence on Deerpath
avenue in a northwest direction to the
north limits of the town of Orovllle, all
of the map of the Incorporated town of
Orovllle, on file in the office of the
county auditor of Okanogan county at
Okanogan, State of Washington.” On
motion council adjourned.
» E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
THE ORPHEUM.
Amiother of those attractive Roll'e
photoplays Is billed for Saturday and
Sunday evenings at I he Orpheuni, en
titled “The House of Tears,” with
that brilliant emotional actress Emily
Stevens as leading lady, a live reel
drama. It is an exciting narrative in
picture form with the scenes shifting
from the east to a mining camp in the
far west, and then back to the affluent
surroundings In New York, and is full
of dramatic incidents and situations.
“The Mouse of Tears” is a strong pro
duction and one that litis drawn crowd
ed houses in the larger cities. The
leading lady, Emily Stevens, whose
wonderful powers have won for her an
unique place on the American stage is
now appearing in the stellar role in
"The Unchastened Woman” the most
successful play of the season on broad
way. Last season she created a sensa
tion by her remarkable performance
in the play, “Today". Since coming to
the screen, under the auspices of the
Metro Pictures Corporation, Miss Ste
vens lias more than duplicated her
success on the speaking stage, starring
in the big features, "Cora,” and "Des
tiny, or The Soul of a Woman.” In
"The House of Tears,” Miss Stevens
is supported by a brilliant cast, which
includes Henri Bergman, the noted
dramatic, artist; Walter Hitchcock,
Madge Tyrone, George Brennan and
oilier well known stage and screen ar
tists.
A. .1. Jackson of Oroville, was a re
tent business visitor in the valley.—
Chewhilikan items in Okanogan lude
pendent.
Miss Alice Davis of this place has
been engaged to teach domestic sci
ence in the Okanogan school for the
next school year.
The Oroville Construction company
is putting a new lid on the Spokane
hotel which was so badly disfigured by
lire some weeks ago.
Harry Hamlsch and H. It. Stafford,
having heard a great deal about the
prevailing boom at Northport, which
has recently taken on a new lease of
life owing to the starting of the old
smelter, and consequent! renewing of
mining activities, left Monday in Mr.
Hamisch’s car for that place. If tlie
outlook appeals to the young men they
may elect to cast their lot for a time
at least with the smelter town. May
Northport’s boom continue on indefi
nately, yet there is one thing certain,
if the smelter ever shuts down there
will be a return to the cemetery ap
pearance that prevailed before that in
dustry was reestablished. The boys re
turned Tuesday night and report the
town very lively, rent high, and little
chance to secure quarters as every
building is occupied.
11.6U BEK YEAR
