r
H
Volume 27, Number 11
L1CLEDE, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1910
$1.00 Per Year in Advance
rrr
BLABEo
" ', i
TOWN AND COUNTRY
About Local People and Events and
Other Matters of Interest
Had An Interesting Meeting
The Womans Christian Temper
ance Union held their . regular
meeting: at the home of Mrs. Ella
Standly Tuesday afternoon.-Mem
bers and visitors responded to roll
call with current events. No special
lesson was followed but sketches
were read by different members,
in-
Salt $1.50 barrel at Patrick's.
Honey for sale by G. W7 Estes.
The best hay rope at Patrick's. Laking an interesting and
Screen wire at last year's prices structive session which was greatly
at J. B. Patrick's
Fancy Valencia oranges, 35c the
dozen. Carothers & Allen.
Buy your rugs and linoleum
wliile. they are cheap at'Patrick's
If you need a new pump or your
old one repaired see J. B. Patrick.
Texas Red oats for sale, at 35
cents per bushel delivered by E.
B. Allen.
enjoyed by all.
The meeting was favored by
special numbers. Readings by
Miss Hazel Rankin and Georgia
Welsh; song by Joyce and Ruby
Smith; lesson on scientific temper
ance instruction by Jeanette Pease
and song by Letha Anderson.
Guests of the afternoon were
Mrs. Caywood, Mrs. Bigger, Mrs.
Landree. Mrs. Poison. Misses
We want your cream, butter, HazeI Rankin Ellen Garside, Letha
Anderson, Joyce and Ruby Smith,
Georgia Welsh anJ Jeanette Pease.
During the social hour a delight
ful surprise was given the guests
when Harold Standly entered with
refreshments and afterwards enter
tained with music.
The nest regular meetiug will
eggs and all kinds of poultry.
B. Patrick.
Let us save you money on your
linseed oil and paints, we can do
it. J. B. Patrick.
A Durham male calf, two years
old next September, for sale byT.
L. Huraphfres, Boomer.
A Reliable gasoline range, two be aQ outdoor meeting, place to be
cook burners and one for oven, for designated later.
sale by Mrs. A. V. Moore. Eyman-Doak
Meadow Grove cream cheese. Last Tuesday evening Mr. and
Extra duality, fresh each week. Mrs. E. R. Barton and Messrs
25c the lb. Carothers & Allen. Christian Eyman and Joseph Ey-
fra T M mnt nno nf the man, all of Laclede, and Mrs.
town's ,most highly respected
ON LOCAL SUBJECTS
Local Items and Interesting Bits of
News of All Sorts
women, is quite sick at her home
in west Laclede.
We have just installed an electric
cream tester. Sell us your cream,
it will make us both money. Car
others & Allen."
F. P. 0. G. peanut butter has lf t priefl f
mac iresn gooa peanut tastes,
in 10c 15c and 30c jars. Car-
others & Allen.
Lillie Doak of Delta. Colorado.
motored to the home of Rev. R. L
Stratton, pastor of the Baptist
church, where Christian Eyman
and Lillie Doak were united in
marriage. Some of xour Linn
county farmers have recently been
fortunate in securing some jewels
om the mining
state of Colorado. The happy
couple will make their home on the
groom's farm three miles northwest
. ... .
There was no picture snow last 0f Laclede. They have the con
Saturday night, caused by a mis- Lratulations of manv friends.
understanding between the man
agement and film company.
Ladies! You can't make a fail
ure with your icing if you use
Club House icing sugar, 15c the
pkg, 2 for 25c. Carothers & Allen.
Auto license tag No. 76285 has
been lost in the vicinity of Laclede
or on tne road to tsrooKneia.
Please notify F. W. Burke, La
clede.
Al. Willard and his three grand
daughters, Esther, Frances and
Motored to Oklahoma
Mr. and Mrs. P. F. Weaver and
Mrs. Allie Harter and daughter,
Miss Beatrice, who left here on
Tuesday morning of last week to
motor to Oklahoma City, reached
their destination early Friday fore
noon. They spent Tuesday night
with Mrs. Quillin at Gardner, Kan
sas; Wednesday night with Mr
and Mrs. Walter Rankin at Hal
stead, Kansas. At Newton the
Laclede penant attracted the at
In the financial statement of the
Lomax & Standly Bank published
last week, the item of '.'Bills pay
able and rediscounts, $10,000,'
should not have been there it being
a mistake son the part of this office.
The corrected statement is printed
today.
There is a cessation of movement
of soldiers to the Mexican border,
no troop trains having passed
through Laclede the past week.
During the previous two week
something like twenty trains bear
ing soldiers and their equipment
from the eastern states passed
through.
E. B. Gudgell and little daugh
ter spent last Sunday ( with Mrs.
Gudgell at St. Joseph. Her con
dition is becoming more alarming
with no hopes of recovery. Mr.
Gudgell returned to St. Joseph
Wednesday morning and brought
his wife home at noon. She is in
a critical condition.
A. G. Groes last week sold the
mule team he had been using on
his delivery wagon and Tuesday
went to Kansas City and bought a
Free Lecture
Rev. J. J. Davis of Indianapolis,
will speak in the M, E. church of
Lacledo, on Saturday, July 29, at
8:00 p. m. under the auspices of
the Flying Squadron Foundation
in the interest of state and nation
wide prohibition of liquor traffic.
PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS
Brief Mention of Those Who Come
and Go Daring the Week
C. B. Talbott spent Sunday at
Mr. Davis is an interesting? and Keokuk. Iowa.
forceful speaker and discusses with Three burner Perfection oil stove
marked conviction and skillful only $10.00 at J. B. Patrick's,
persuasion a subject of wide-spread C. C. Anderson, H. E. Brenner
interest and vital importance to and W. O, Mahurin spent last
the entire community. He is well Sunduy afternoon in Chillicothe. '
qualified to handle the Temperance Mrs. J. P. Morrison of Union-
question from the standpoint of ville visited the family of J. M.
Simpson on route three last week.
Miss Gladys Riggen returned
last Sunday from spending several
weeks with relatives and friends at
Milan.
Mis. John King of Brookfield
visited her brother, Jeff Clemens,
west of Laclede last Sunday and
Monday.
Miss Vanesse Fawcette of Kan
sas City is here visiting her grand
parents, Mr. and Mrs. S. M.
Brown.
Miss Esther Hobbs of Fairview,
Kansas, and a graduate of Ottawa
university, is the guest of Miss
Dorothy Stratton.
Miss Emma Loomis of Meadville
spent the first part of the week
here visiting her sister, Mrs. M. P.
physical efficiency and moral char
aeter, having formerly occupied Benson and family.
used Ford touring car that he will the Chair or Physical Culture and Isabelle and Carl Libbv of Kan-
convert into a delivery truck for
his grocery business. Frank
Weaver accompanied him to the
city and drove the car home.
The firm of Plowman & Jones,
dealers in flour, feed ar-d coal, has
been dissolved, Mr. Plowman re
tiring. The business will be con
tinued by Max Jones who is now
sole proprietor. He has a large
stock, makes prompt delivery and
the patrons of the place will con
tinue to get the good service that
they have in the past.
Regular meeting of the Royal
Neighbor camp on Friday after
noon of this week. A full attend
ance is desired at this meeting as
Hygiene Lawrence University, SflS nfv nr Rnpnrlino- n few wppIto
j , a - "
ippleton, Wisconsin, and his later I here with their grandparents,
connection with the association Jude and Mrs O F Lihhv
movement, as secretary of the Mrs j E Marghall ari"d littIe
Montrose (Colo.) County Y. M. C. Annohtttr nf rmin;i ninflpa :Q:t
A., has brought him into contact friends here last week, guests of
and intimate relationship with men th. i vv s MWin
and boys to a degree that eminent
ly fits him to speak with intelli
gence and convincing argument on
this topic of national and even
international scope and importance
The meeting is open to the public
and everyone is invited. Admis
sion is free.
Leonard Jones and family of
Cameron are spending a week with
relatives here, Leonard playing
with the Linneus band during the
reunion.
Mrs. Florence Kinney and daugh
ter of Plattsburg and Mrs. J. W.
Adams of Claience are here visit
ing their parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Mabel Willard, left Thursday night tention of two former Linn county
for a week's visit with relatives in citizens who approached the car
Denver, Colo. and made themselves known. They
The ball game scheduled for last we brothers of T. L. Humphfres
Fridav between Laclede and Brown- Pf Worker and formerly lived near
imrdid not materalize, too many Meadville. At Wichita they nn
of the players being busy in the epectedly met Frank McKisson,
harvest fields. formerly of Laclede, who is in the
w tj iu. mnXnoc grocery business there with his
day night from spending a couple
of months on his farm near Adrian.
He says it is dry down there, rain
being badly needed.
Want to contract for several
cords of 24 inch dry body wood
worked up ready for bake oyen.
See me at once. E. D. Jamison,
Laclede bakery.
Miss Esther Willard very pleas
antly entertained a number of her
young friends last Friday evening
father-in-law. They had no car
trouble at all and had a delightful
trip, the roads being good all the
way. The Metz carried the four
passengers and luggage the 610
miles on an expenditure of $7.86
for gasoline. They found Mr. and
Mrs. Ward Mouser and daughter
Marguerite well and are having a
fine visit.
The Baptist Church
Richard I Stratton. Pastor
Preaching next Sunday 11 a. hl.
in honor of her cousin, Chas. C. an(j 8 p. m.
Duckworth of the United States . Sunday school 10 a. m.
navy who is home on a furlough. Attendance at Sunday school last
Mr. and Mrs. R. T. Patterson Sunday 39.
returned home from Kansas. City Prayer meeting Wednesday even-
IJUUrBUBJ uvuu. vjumtivu I tug o , Ui.
Mrs. Patterson underwent several Choir practice Friday evening
weeks ago for cancer of the lower I at 8 p. m.
Maintaining a Reputation
On our eighth page today will John Gartner
l. J ! 1 a j C I
oe rouna an advertisement- or a MrS- Sam Carothers who has
action toward assisting in caring special sale on summer goods that been visitin relatives here and in
for a sick neighbor is to come up oegins -at me d. w . Fornax oc uo. other partg of the state for some
for immediate action and the 810 nexc oaiuraay morning. tjmC) left jast week for her home
matter deserves the attention of ome very attractive prices are at Waco Texas
every memoer. juaire it a point to UttUJCU auu "uc suiui'cu'".' r an(j jyjrs Elbert Kailer of
attend this meeting and be there on Marge to insure a good assortment N m m are visiting the
time.
Just when rain was beginning to
be badly needed this locality got a
fine shower last Monday afternoon
that did an immense amount of
good to pasture and all growing
crops as well as cooling the at
mosphere. But the real rain of
the week was Wednesday after
noon, the downpour lasting nearly
an nour. it was a real soaker,
With high temperature, abundance
of sunshine and local showers corn
is kept growing rapidly and the
crop is in fine shape.
J. Walter Jones, representing
the Mentholatum company in Iowa
and Missouri and covering his
territory in a car, appreciates good
roads and streets. He was in La
clede Wednesday and after trans
acting some business at the Owl
Pharmacy, remarked that Laclede
to select from and it will be a rare
buying opportunity for those who
believe in making their dollar go
as far as possible in getting needed
supplies. Those who may be
interested should preserve this ad
vertisement and consult it for
prices as no bills are being issued
for this sale. The well known
reputation this store has for honest
price cutting will be maintained
throughout this big sale of stock
reduction and an effort made to
move the goods as qnicKiy
possible.
Card of Thanks
We wish to thank our neighbors
and friends for their kindness, '
sympathy and their beautiful floral
offerings in our late bereavement. 1
Shelbt Cross and Family.
latter's parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Wm. Kraft. They motored thru,
arriving Friday.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Brown re
turned Tuesday from a motor trip
to Princeton where they spent
several days visiting Mrs. Brown's
parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. C.
Lomax. ,
Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Wood spent
last Sunday with Chas. Goodman
and family on route two, Mr.
Goodman taking them out in his
car and for a fine drive during the
day.
Section Foreman Joe Albm and
Bridge Foreman F. C. Peck spent .
Monday night in Carrollton attend
ing a school of instructions for
track and bridge men held by Bur
lington officials.
Mrs. E. A. Brown and daughter
of Doris of Kansas City are spending
as
bowels afforded her some
but she is very poorly.
Notice to Odd Fellows
All officers and members
had the best streets to drive over Amana Lodge No. 356 are request- 'a week here with her mother, Mrs.
of any town in the state and on ed to be present at the next regu- J, C. Carothers and other relatives.
earning that they were oiled by lar meeting, Tuesday, July 25, at Mr. Brown came and spent Sunday
private subscription he voluntary 8 p. ra. There will be work in the here. Mr. Brown is in the
handed Mr. Brown a dollar to go initiatory degree and installation government service as building in
to the oiling fund, saying such 0f officers by the D. D. G. M., spector. and is now superintendinff
enterprise was deserving of that after which refreshments will be the construction of the new federal
i . . i . . .
I mucn encouragement even trom a served by the committee. uitmg building at Chillicothe and
an
1 I TT m m I a a w . . I
reneii iou ana roar i&mur are eor- stranger, air. tioues nome is a itmfU nro i-arc vnma A tfmA . vr:.,
t . m . mm m I m m m m m I
auuiy umied to all services. i &pnngueid, Mo. k. j. Fixxet. X. G. " vill
