fjtnlo HUtnrleal Snnlsly
Ijihiinliln Miii
Special Campaign Edition 3,000 Copies.
i Xm LbbbbI
ill Couni
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1916.-12 PAGES.
NUMBER 12.
Grand Editorial Review of Holt County Candidates
Written and Compiled by M. B. Russell. Spccinl Writer for the Holt County Sentinel.
cit ari.es e. MUNN.
Or all the candidates that we hae
devoted trace to In this political num
ber of The Sentinel, there are none
that .wo take more special pride 'n
reviewing than the canillilacy of
Charlo E. Munn, candidate for Rep
resentative on the Ucpubllcan ticket.
It la with pleasure that we can place
the hearty stump of approval upon
Ihl gentleman candidacy, for
tlfcrc Is not H man among the entire
list of candidates In the campaign,
who Is more deserving of the silent
regard of the people of Holt county
than this distinguished citizen. He it
now one of Holt county's, representa
tives on the Mexican bonier. When
his country cnlleil for men to protect
the lives anil property of American
citizens who reside on the blood-stained
border of Mexico, Lieutenant Munn
marched away with his company, mid
Is tiMlny rendering valuable service on
the frontier. The call to arms has
taken him nway front his campaign,
lie Is not here In person to present
his clnlms personally to the people of
Holt county, therefore The Sonlln"!
takes pride in asking that the Rcpub
lican voters on next primary day
stand loyally by the candidacy of
Lieutenant Munn. .Show by your bal
lot that you are teady and willing to
tnnd by the boys that are standing
by their country. A man who nn
vers his 'country coll In the hour of
tiiilill, nlfti-tnt nfivfir n.lrml fif n mini!,
ofhec In this county, and In urging j
that the Republicans stand loyally by
Scboutn Carson In this election, we
believe we arc using our aid and In
llucncc In behalf of n cood citizen.
and In the Interest of honest, econoini I
cat government.
c feel certain that the people of j
Holt county arc well sattMlcil with
mo manner in wi en .Mr. mrson na
conducted the business nlTalrs of the
County Treasurer's oflice. Wc feel
certain that, one nnd all, will have
to agree with us that no benefits can
be expected as a result of Mr. Car
son's retirement nt this time. Wc
further feel certain that the Ucpub
llcan voters of (his county arc going
to treat Mr. Carson in n spirit of fair
ness, nnd show by their ballot on
August 1st that they stand ready and
CHARLES!!. MUNN.
Candidate for Heprcsentallu
need Is a man of courage, a man of
worth and a useful citizen of the kind
and nature that entitles him to the
fullest confidence and respect of his
fellow-countrymen. Now that he Is
away let us not be dilatory, but on
next ejection day, let's all step up to
the ballot box and show by our vote
that wc will stand by those who stand
by us.
It Is useless for us to tell the people
of Holt county that Lieutenant Munn
Is capable of ably and Intelligently
representing this county In tho halls
of Missouri's legislature. He has for
years been regarded as ono of our
most valuable and Influential citizens,
one with a keen conception of tho
needs of the people. From all over
the state comes tho cry to send good,
level-headed men to the legislature
for the reason that the hope of the
people for relief from burdensome
laws can never be expected at the
hands of would-be lawyers and trlx
ter politicians.
Wc shall certainly bo sorely dis
appointed If the Republican voters do
not stand loyally by Lieutenant Munn
In this election, ills nomination will
add much strength to tho ticket In
the November election, and should he
bo the successful candidate, ho will
retire from tho Army, by being grant
ed a leave of absence, provided hojtll
itlej do not comwnce, and return to
Missouri, and answer, the call of his
people to serve them in the legisla
ture, and as ho has already demon
strated that he is willing to fight for
his country, he will bo guided by these
.same motives when ho takes his seat
in the legislature, and will stand up
and valiantly' fight for tho best inter
ests of the people who so honor him
with the distinction of having tho on-
fiortunlty to take a seat in Missouri'
aw making body.
Remember Charles E. Munn August
1st. Ho is tho man that Is entitled
to your voto. and wo hone his major
ity, will extend into the hundreds of
votes. Let's all null together for a
ig victory lor Lieutenant jtiunn ai
e pons on primary day. no win
rve us with honor and distinction.
There can be no mHtakc about that.
SEBOUHN CARSON.
The many friends of our present effl-
. -I . i s . I. r. . I - a1 , .
uciit uuu imimui iuuuiy tiirunuici,
Hebourn Carson, were Indeed pleased
when they learned that this gentle
man had hied on the Republican ticket
ms a candidato to succeed himself for
a secoml term in this office for tho
reason that it would bo almost a per
sonal loss to every tax payer in tho
county to loso the services of this
ever faithful public official at this
time, and in presenting In this big
political edition of The Sentinel tho
candidacy this gentleman for the fa
vorable consideration of the Republic
can voters of this county, we can say
without any reservations whatever
that a more deserving citizen, a i
loyal Republican, ana a awe fall
SEHOI'IIN Chi:'N'.
Candidate for Count) Treasurer.
willing tn place the stninn of apiitoval
upon his ufiklul leconl and give tn j
him a splendid majority at tho noils'
on next election day. I
The people of Holt county did not)
hesitate to elect Si bourn Carson as I
iiur County.. Treasurer In his llrst
campaign for this olllcc. Tl icy had
confidence in his ability and Integrity
to piace nun in charge or this im
poitant nfllco anil If there Is n single
Individual voter In the county who lm
ever had cause to regret that Schourn i
Carson was elected County Treasurer,
.. , .i r - I,..., ... i I., .
wc nuvr wius inr t lieu 10 near in
nnmn Mw.nf linml In till, f.hllifllfrn .nil
If this gentleman Is returned to suc-
cccii iiimseir an may rest nssurrcu
that he will continue to do his duty
In the future the same as he has in
the past.
Since u copy of this political num
ber of The .Sentinel will be placed In
the hands of every Republican voter
In Holt county, wo deslro to carry
this message in behalf of Scbourn
Carson, and that he Is sincerely and
truly thonkfu' for the honor that ho
nas received at tho nanus 01 tne
people of Holt county, and in return
for the conlldence renosed that he
has endeavored to make us a public
ofllclal that would bo acceptable to
all classes of neon c. He has been
courteous, clever nnd accommodating
to all tax payers who have had busi
ness in his oiiicc. lie has perrorineil
his duty faithfully, accurately and
well, and upon his ofllclal record he
Is willing to stand or fall In this election.
If you think Scbourn Carson is en
titled to your ballot on next election
day and you decide to cast it In Ida'
ucnair, you may rest nssurrcd that
you will never nave cause to regret
that he was named to succeed himself
for a second term in the olllcc ho has
so acceptably filled.
RILEY TURNEV.
At tho forthcoming primary elec
tion, the Republican voters of Holt
county will be called upon to pass
upon tne personal worthiness, mo
general standing and the qualifica
tions of Riley Turncy, of Forest
township, whose name will be found
upon tho Republican ticket as a can
didate for the office of County Sheriff,
and since this is ono of our most im
portant offices, it behooves tho voters
of this county to use their best Judg
ment to sc'.ect the best man of tho
available candidates to fill the same.
For a man to make an acceptable
Sheriff, he should bo cool and level
headed, one that will fearlessly per.
form his duties, and one thnt will en
force tho low and uphold the dignity
of his office. Riley Turnev is a Holt
county boy and Is well known to tho
people among whom ho has been
raised. Ho has always been consid
ered an exemplary young man, one
with splendid habits, nnd ono who
could be trusted. He has filled tho
oflice, by appointment, as Deputy
Game Warden, and In this connection
wo must say thnt ho mado a
siilcndid officer, porformlng his duties
In such a manner that his record In
this department will be a valuablo
asset to him in this campaign.
Riley certainly has his share of
warm, personal friends in this cam-
fialgn, and these friends are more
han anxious that this deserving citi
zen uo nonoreo wun tne nomination.
They know him to be an honorable
man. They know that he can be de
pended upon to properly discharge his
duties, and they further know, that
RILEY Tl'RNEY,
Candidate for Sheriff.
he will rellect credit upon the .Sheriff's
otllce, plnvlded he is hllowcd to fill
the same.
Mr. Turncy Is making a gentleman
ly campaign for the Shci ill's office,
iisking the people for their support
solely upon his own merits, and not
upon the deficiencies of any of his
opponents. Tho facts nie thnt there
are several good men miming for this
olllre at this time, nnd some of them
are going to gt n splendid vote, but
since the people as n whole will be
guliled by but one thing, nnd that Is
to nominate the best suited man for
the oil co. It lev turners candidacv
seems to 1 gradually glowing In
pipular favor. From what we Tiavo
gathered from nil portions of the
county it Is reasonable to think thnt
Mr. Turncy will iccclvo n splendid
vote jrom several sections or tne coun
ty, nnd figuring it from this basis, his
friends have a right to claim that he
stands the best show of the entire
number of candidates of leeching the
nomination.
Wo are going to ask all of the Re
publican voters to weigh well Riley
Turncy' candidacy. c arc positive
that no mistake ran be mado by his
election to this olllcc, and if such n
thing should happen, tho people can
rest assurred that he will ilo his duty
In such a manner thnt f here will bo no
complaint ngulnst his ofllclal actions.
Riley niks for your fuvorable con
sideration, and assures onf and nil
that he has only u desire tn serve Ids
people In a worthy capacity, and thnt
ho will ever appreciate the honor If
thf Republicans consent tn name him
ns, their choice for the next Sheriff of
I toll county.
He Is milking nn earnest effort to
see every voter personally before elec
tion liny, hut if for any reason he fails
tn see you, Just remember that you
ran make nn mistake In casting yo ir
ballot to his credit, and If successful,
will, return tho favor by faithfully
scrvJng the best Interests of all.
IIENJAMIN E. CKOl'SEK. CL'RTIS II. WHITMER.
There are many candidates for the
nfTicc of Sheriff of Holt county, all
pretty good fellows, but only one of
the entire number enn Ih tinmlnatiit
nnd electeil ns our next Sheriff, and
In presenting the claims of Itcn
Crouser, who has filed on the Republi
can ticket for this olllcc, wc want to
mnke it clearly and thoioughly under
stood that ho mistake ran lie pn. ih'y
itiude In electing lien Crouser to this
Important oflice, for lien Is ns clean
ns n whistle, with nn imlifoml.l,.,.!
character, nnd a more genteel, nrcnm-
mounting leiiow would Indeed bo liniil
to find: nnd then. Inn. nnr fi-,,1
Crouser, Is well iitinlllicd for the oflice
he Is seeking. hnvinir serve,! II. .'i
county ns Deputy Sheriff four lenrs
under Sherlir MeVnItf. nl, ,.. ...
quitting himself with honor nnd ills.
W. J. CLASS.
Candidate for Count) Judge, KIM
District.
(!Ins for County Judge.
Mr. Class is making a clean nnd
creditable campaign fur the Judge
ship, flee Ironi mud-sllnglng nnd per
sonultles, appealing to the people for
their support solely upon his own pel
onnl merits, his sttiiiilini' ns a till
'en nnd his general worthiness to till
n public olllcc. He Is n ginuino tine
Mile lifptihllrnti of the kind thnt al
ways step to the I rout nnd helps the
pnrlv In the time of mill, and we nrc
untik tn say that n nioie woilhy inim
.never rtrki 1 the llepiiblienn voters of
Holt county for recognition In nil)
'campaign. -- .
The Sentinel, nnr tin iitin rimnirfi1
'ultl. III i, . I- ..! it..,..,.. ,..
'the liepubliuitt voters of Holt county1
nun inry s inn or s in not liom nnie
lis their choice to go on the ticket 'n
the November election, but III this
edition we are meiely placing before
the voteis men whom wo believe will
make this county Intelligent and use-1 while we nrc not bragging about his
rui puniie iiinrials, unit we licllcve that ability to the detriment or tiny or
tho ih-opIc as a whole nie irolnir mllils niinonents. but since he is seeking
lisu tlulr best Judgement to select by one of our most Importnnt otllccs, it
tiieir naiioi tne kcsi nvauanie men run is very necessary mat 1110 people
the illirciont ofllres. iknow Just who Is the best qiinlilled
A voto for W. J, (ilnss, rnndldatc I man to propel ly fill the olllcc, so that
for County Judge of the First Dis-lthey may Ih nlde to vote Intelligently
Irlrt 11 III lift n w,fi, fur nn Iwtnftilt nn,l tt linn .l,w.(,,,t .ln ftrrl.'nd
capable man, one that w.ll appreciate I It will be rcincmhcuil that Mr,
LBLm GbKbbbV
W. J. CLASS.
It now becomes our pleasant duly
t6 review for the bei.'lit of the Re
publican voters of the First Distiia
the candidacy of W. J. Class, of For
est township, whose name will bo
found unon the Republican ticket ns
a candidate for County Judge, and it
ipllnri II. nn smnll ilnnma tt .it.... .- .1
to state in this big political edition
01 1 no neniinei tnai w. J, (iiass M
one of Holt county's stalwart cltlzi in
and leading farmers, who has lived
In the county for !)2 years, and n
man who has given much time and
attention to the business affairs of
this county. For years Mr. Class de
voted considerable time to road wink,
ami to our notion or thinking tin to
is not a better posted man on good
roads litlllillnv In lit!.. Miinli. .1..
Glass has learned how to build anil
maintain roads uy practical experi
ence, for ten years lie was tho rual
overseer nf ITnlnn .11.11... n.l i.i
"'" . - Mil,, II"-
work on the roads Is yet well remeni-
oorcu ny tnoso who hail occasion to
travel over them, Ilo knows whit
constitutes permanent rood building,
and If ho Is so fortunate ns to bo nom
inated and electeil as ono of tho net
County Judges of Holt county, he will
i.u i iu iiigiiiuy some vaiuauic in
formation tlinf tt'linn nnnll,l l 1 1,,.
1 1, ,, ...... .,.,, ui III mu
building of good roads will mean that
me tax payers or tins county will get
more miles of real good roads for tlio
amount nf mnnnt i.viinnl.,.1 it..H i.MJ
, , - V J n,.v,,.,. .nun n.-
ever before been enjoyed In this coun-
i. .nr. muss is not oniy well pnsliil
on tho building of good roads, but he
IS 11 Infill nf U'tlll, .vnjl.lnn.A In II,h
lines, and Is what is termed in tins
nay unu umo as a goon level-headed,
conservative man, who can bo trusted
tO faltllflllk llnt-fnlm nnti .1 .
he may undortoke. Ills character mid
piuiniintr as a citizen is or a high
order. Ho has always dealt with his
felloW-ninn In n mnnnn, on n ...I..
------ .....,v. fJ MB (I, 1,111
and maintain his confidence, and wiie.i
im uiiiiuunccii 111s candidacy ror Coun
ty Judgo from tho First District It do
yelopeil that Mr. Glass had many roal
fr ends, and that these friends had
fa th in him and his ability to mako
this county an acceptable County
JUlfffO. for nn annnnt ha.l 1.1b ...a
' , - -- ww..v. HIS lltllllV
appeared in the local press than many
piuiuiuciiv cuizens announced that
HEN'JAMiN e. citorsr.it,
Candidate for Sheriff,
tfnrtlou. proving that he Is well uuall
lied to till the Slieiill's olllre, and
the fuvor, and ono thnt will serve his
people witli honor and distinction.
ALFRED A. MEYER,
Candidate for Count)' Assessor.
A lepresentnkive of one of the old
pioneer families of Holt county is
asking for political recognition In this
campaign In the person of Alfred A.
.Meyer, one of the progressive farm
ers of Mound City, nnd who was en
raged in tho mercantile business at
Mound City for several years, and in
presenting the clnlms of Mr. Mey.'r
for the consideration of the Republi
can voters of itolt county wo want to
maxc it plainly understood tnut no
Is a most deserving citizen, one fully
entitled to the honor that he is asking
nt the hnnds of the people in this
election.
Mr. Meyer promises that If elected
as the next County Assessor thut he
will make an Intelligent, fulr nnd
equal assessment of nil the assessable
property In this county. He promises
to faithfully and loyally attend to his
duties in such n manner that no one
wllhhavo Just cause for complaint as
to his handling of the duties of this
important olllre. lie will treat nil the
peoplk with the same due courtesy,
recognizing that the office belongs to
tho people and that he Is only their
public 'ttervant. He will not he a rep
resentative of any faction, but will
work for-the best Interests of all the
tux payers of Holt county. What
more could you demand or expect
from nn honest ofllclal?
Mr. Meyer enjoys tho distinction of
having belSnd him In this campaign
the undiviik-d support of all his
friends andyielghhors. Ho has lived
Cwuscr made the race for Sheriff four
years ago, and thnt he received n
splendid vote at the hnnds nf the
people ut that prlmnry nnd the en
roiinigement recelvul nt thnt elec
tion is totally responsible for him be
ing 11 runilldate nt this time. Not
withstanding the fact thnt he was
defented by a small maigin he pulled
his cont and worked for the success
of his opponent In the November elec
tion. The acquaintance gained during
the IHI'J campaign adds much
strength tn his campaign at this time,
and many good Republicans over the
county thought that lien should have
n elenr field In this rnmpiilgn, but by
reference to the announcement column
you will sec thnt he has a big list of
opponents, and now the voters will set
ns n Jury and determine their choice
from among the number. If Hen
Crotiser's friends ever Intend to do
nnythlng for him in the politlrnl line
they will have to do It In this election,
for this will, In all likelihood, be the
last time for Mr. Crouser's name to
appear on a primary ballot,
lien Crouser lives on a 'farm near
Oregon, but has given considerable
time and attention to concrete work,
and In all things ho has made good.
While he was Deputy Sheriff, lien
made friends who admired him for
his quiet and business-like way nf
performing his duties. In fact, them
is not a man in all tho county that
has more loyal, genulno friends than
does Ren Crouser. He knows how to
make friends, and better still lie
knows the secret of how to keep them
friends. Theso friends nrc very anx
ious to see Hen nominated ns tne Re
publican candidate for Sheriff, They
the kind of? a life that today when I have confidence in him. They know
his name Is pluecd before the people 'him to be n cool, level-headed man,
for a public Alice, all those who know ono that will courageously perform
him personally stand ready and will- his duties under tho most trying cir-
ing to say a gtod worn lor him. They cumstonces, incy Know that ho will
1o not hesltntl to recommend him as enforce tho law without fear or favor,
a, reliable man,,one thut can bo trusted and that as Sheriff of this county
and one that will do his duty as u thut ho will make a record that will bo
si
nubile olllclal. They aro not onlv en
dorsing Ills candidacy, but aro earnest
ly working for tils election and they
are honest when they predict a com
plete victory for him nt the polls on
next primary day,
Mr. Meyer wants It distinctly un
derstood Hint he is running for tho
Asscssorship strictly upon his own
merits and not upon the demerits of
any of his opponents. If tho people
believe that ho Is entitled to tho office
that he is seeking ami say so by their
ballot ho will ever feel grateful for
tho confidence placed in him, and will,
if elected, render tho tax payeti of
this county tho best service ob Their
County Assessor that liut within his
powers, and as he is not engaged in
any other business, will devote his
entire time nnd attention to the duties
of his oflice.
He is making a creditable campaign
for the office, and as tho campaign
comes nearer to a close the brighter
hi chances appear that he will be the
successful candidate,
they were going to support W. J,
n credit both to himself and tho coun
ty. Many copies of this big political
edition of The Sentinel will fall into
the hands of voters who aro not per
sonally acquainted with lien Crouser,
and to tlicso wc have hut ono sug
gestion to make, and that is for them
to ask any man who knows him per
sonally, and whatever they may sny
about him will be highly satisfactory
to us. His record as a citizen and ns
Deputy Sheriff is an open book. His
chnrartcr is frco from blemishes of
Creuser, 2 .. ..Pol. Edl. 2 ....
any nature, and wo are confident that
Ren Crouser will never disappoint
those who Btand loyally by him in
this campaign.
Mr. Crouser will certainly appre
ciate your support on August 1st, and
If successful, ho will endeavor to do
his duty In such a manner that no
ono will ever have.cauie to regret his
election to the Sheriff'! office.
A vote for Ben Crouser is vote
for a good man, a loyal Republican
and a man who will do hit duty.
1 or County Judge of the First Dis
trict, subject to the will of the Re
publican voters, we have the happy
privilege of presenting In this big
Political edition of The S'rnllnf.1 tl,..
candidacy of Curtis II. Whltmer, ono
of our county's foremost fnrmir
citizens, who l:ns consented to mako
ine incc lor this important oflice, and
It gives us much pleasure to sny that
the people of Holt county would bo
very fortunnte Indeed If a man like
Curtis Whltmer was placed on the
bench, for he Is n man, cery Inch of
him, nnd one thnt will faithfully servo
the best Intel ests of the people of
i ;""'1' If he Is honored with
the ofllrp he Is seeking.
Mr. Whltmer has never before ask
ed the people of this county for a
public oflice. He has nlwnys been
content to help the other fellow out,
but his f i lends early In tho campaign
.vue Insistent thnt he mnke the lace
fi'. County Judge, and it was only
riter much deliberation Hint he con
sented to throw hit hat In the ling,
but now since he has announced and
put his name nt stake, he Is very
nnxlous to leceive tho nomination, nnd
fimn the many encouraging leports
tl.nt nrc coming in fiom over tho
I 'ut District it looks ns though ho
has inoic than an en bleak to win.
Ihere are many irn.ons why Cur
tis Whltnur will moke this county a
LTRTIS II. WHITMER,
I'lindlilale for County Judge, First
District.
most acceptable County Judge. In the
llrst place, he hns been n very active
citizen all along and ha been hlentl-
Med in inuny wnys with the nlralrs or
this county, nnd should he be named
ns one of the next County Judges of
this county, nil may rot nssurred that
he will stand for nn economical ex
penditure of tho people's money. Ills
nnine will never 0. K. a bill unless it
Is an honest bill, wherein the people
have received dollar for dollar In value
for all money expended. Ho will
stand for good roads Improvement
and all other public Improvements
thnt the exigencies of the circum
stnnres may call for, hut he will use
his best efforts to expend the money
in a nn economical manner, consis
tent witli results,
Mr. Whltmer is a man among men,
honorable In every way, liberal In his
views, and a crank about nothing. In
fart he is a broad-minded citizen, and
one that can wear the title of Judgo
with honor and distinction.
In p'lading for the careful consid
eration of his candidacy by the Repub
lican voters of his district wc have
no hesitancy In suying that It would
Iitcac us very much to see this well
mown citizen honored with the office
he Is seeking for tho reason that wo
believe that his administration as one
of the County Judges of Holt county
will be a credit to tho Republican
party. Wo believe him well qualified,
wc believe him tn bo absolutely
lioncft, and we further believe that
he will serve the best Interests of all
in n highly satisfactory manner, nnd
to that end we arc going to encourage
ono and all to use whatever inllucnco
they may feel disposed In order to
bring about his nomination and elec
tion. A vote for Whltmer will be a voto
for a splendid citizen, and a man who
will make Holt county an intelligent,
conscientious and worthy County
Judge,
MARVIN E. KEIFFER.
To tho licpubllciins of Holt county
Tho Sentinel has the happy privilcgo
of presenting the cnmliducy of Marvin
Kciifer, who has filed as a candidate
for tho Republican nomination for tho
oflice of County Assessor,
Mr. KelfTcr Is a young farmer and
lives in Clay township. Ho has a
host of friends scattered all over Holt
county who aro doing all they can
to seo that ho lands tho nomination
for the office he Is seeking, Marvin
Kclffcr Is a splcnddl typo of American
ciuiensino, b ciean, clever nnd ac
commodating young man, always
ready and WllllnOf to lend helnlnrr
hand to n friend or neighbor, and ono
that can be trusted to properly fill a
public office,
Marvin if sf made boy, .having
earned practically all the moity that
(Continued on Pago Six)
