TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 108.
RAKKK. VERMONT, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1016.
TRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE BARRE
DAILY
1
GERMANS ARE
DRIVEN BACK
IN DISORDER
They Attempted Counter At
tacks Last Night on Fosi
tions Captured by French
Yesterday Charged the
French Lines.
TO THE SOUTH OF
SOYECOURT
Between Soissons and
Rheims the French Pene
trated the German Trench
Clearing It of Defenders
In Chaulnes Region
Germans Were Repulsed
with Bayonets
Paris, July 21 The positions that were
raptured yesterday by the French were
subjected to vigorous counter attack
during the night. The Germans charged
the French lines south of Soyeeourt, but
the war office today announced that
they were driven back in disorder and
Buffered heevy losses. A strong German
attachment that advanced to attack in
the Clia nines region was repulsed with
bayonets. Between Soissons and Rheims
the French penetrated the German trench,
clearing it of defenders.
On the Verdun front artillery is ac
tivc on both sides in the vicinity of
Clmwncouit, Mars-La-Tour, Longuyon
and lirieulles.
CONFERENCE TO BE
HELD IN AUGUST
American and Mexican Delegate Wtll
ITobably Meet at Nigr Falls
to Settle, Border Dispute.
Mexico City. July 21. The details of
Mexico proixwals for a peace! u I oiu
tion of the difficulties existing with the
Tnited States were mado public last
night by the foreign office when a ropy
of the note which was sent to the wasn
iiiRton government July 11 was given to
the newspapers for publication in this
morning' edition.
The note suggests the naming of three
commissioners by each government, the
commissioner to meet at some neutral
point for the purpose of discussing the
withdrawal of the American troops now
in Mexico, the drawing up of an agree
ment providing term for the reciprocal
crossing of the frontier by the troops of
either nation, and the investigation of
the origin of the parties which have
raided American border towns, for the
purpose of definitely fixing responsibility
for them.
In commenting on the note last night
foreign office officials eaid that as the
note had not vet been answered by the
Washington government they considered
it their duty to the Mexican people to
make it public that Mexicans might
know what effort their government was
making toward n peaceful solution of the
pending difficulties.
It has been learned from unofficial
sources that the conference probably will
be held in Niagara Falls. The names of
the Mexican delegates have not ret been
made public, but it is known that they
will all be civilians, and that the chair
man of the commission will be a member
of General Carranza' cabinet well known
in financial circles in the United States.
It is believed that the conference will
convene early in August.
VALDEMAR
CAPTURED
American Schooner With
Cargo of Oil Bound
for Sweden
CAPTURED BY A .
GERMAN WARSHIP
Valdemar Left San Francis
co Feb. 24, Bound for
Sweden
REFUSE TO COMMENT.
THREATEN AIR RAIDS
ON FRENCH TOWNS
Germans Will Be Forced, They Say, to
Use Strong Battle Squadrons for
Purposes of Reprisal.
Berlin, via London, July 21. Threats
of air raids on open French towns as
reprisals were made in an official state
ment to-day. I he statement says the
French airmen have bombarded towns in
the Black forest which are outside the
zone of field operations, while German
air attacks had up to this time been di
rected exclusively against the fortresses
or field works. In one French raid, it is
said, a woman and four children were
killed. "We shall sow be forced," says
the report, "to use our strong battle
squadrons for the purpose of reprisal. A
great number of peaceful French towns
outside the zone of field operations are
within the reach of our air squadron.
Washington Officials Have Nothing to
Say On Mexican Report.
Washington, D. C, July 21. While
it was admitted at the state department
to-day that a note was received from tli
de facto government of Mexico umler
the date of July 11, proposing the ap
pointment of a joint commission to set
tle the border difficulties, officials re
fused to comment upon the statement
given out in Mexico City last night.
Arredondo saw Acting Secretary Tolk
before to-day's cabinet meeting and the
general impression prevailed that a ten
tative agreement had been reached along
the line of the Mexican proposal, al
though the scope of the discussion may
differ somewhat from the suggestions of
the Carranza notj
' According to Uie Mexico despatch it
was proposed that the commission take
up three questions the withdrawal of
American troops from Mexico, the nego
tiations of a reciprocal agreement from
the passage of troops of either govern
ment across the border in pursuit of
bandits and the investigation of interests
behind the bandit raids, the intimation
being that they were inspired by those
on both sides of the border who desire
intervention.
There ' seems little doubt that the
Washington government will be willing
the last two propositions should be tak
en up by the commission. Regarding
the withdrawal of troops, however, the
situation i less clear. There is nothing
to indicate the state department's atti
tude regarding the retention of troops
has undergone any change.
London, July 21. The American
schooner Prince Valdemar has been cap
tured by a German warship while en
route to Sweden with a cargo of oil,
according to a dispatch to the Exchange
Telegraph company quoting the Copen
hagen Politiken. The schooner was tak
en into Swinemtinde. London records
show that the only vessel of this name
is listed as belonging to George W. Mc
Ncar of San Francisco, The MeXear
firm Is one of those recently included in
the British blacklist. Shipping records
here show that the bark named Prince
Valdemar, foreign built, but under Amer- j
ican registry, left San Francisco Feb
24 for Telleborg, Sweden.
TO MOVE FISH HATCHERY.
Establishment at Swanton to Be Taken
to Sandy Point.
Swanton, July si. ) he governmen
fish hatchery, which has been in opera
tion at Swanton for good many year
Ih to lie moved to w t Swanton and lo
eated on what Is known as Sandy point
I his was decided during the visit
Henry O'Mally of Washington, in charge
of fish culture for the I nited States bu
reau of fisheries, and by A. H. Pinmore
superintendent "f the government fl
propagation in Vermont.
The chief reason for the chance Is th
uncertainty of the present water supply
nd the growing difficulty in running the
government boats In the river. Joh
Nile, local superintendent, will begin
Monday to make arrangements for mov
ing the building to tho new aita. Th
structure will be taken down in sections,
hauled to West Swanton bv boat and
then set up as it stands to-day. The
plant will be near the river and lake
shore fishing grounds, where the pike are
taken in the spring, and the distribution
of fry will he much easier either by wa
ter or rail. The new auxiliary fish hatch
ery at Burlington can be better supplied
from this point.
LASSO SHARK NEAR BOSTON.
Man-Eater, 350 Pounds, Captured Alive
With Rope.
Boston, July 21. A live shark of the
so-called man-eating blue. nose species
six and one-half feet in length and
weighing 3.V) pounds, was captured off
Nahant ye.aterd.iy after a hard fight by
hree Boston fishermen, and was towed
here. The capture was effected by means
of a lasso cast over the shark's snout as
it rose to the surface.
America and Peace.
BRITHISH LINE
PUSHED FORWARD
Advance North of Bazentin and Longue
val Made to the Foreauz
Wood.
London, July 21. The British line
north of Bazentin and Longueval ha
been pushed forward to the Foreaux
wood, the war office announced 'to-day.
The British drove the Germans from
part of the woods but lost this position
subsequently.
TWO BRITISH STEAMSHIPS SUNK.
Grangemoor Hit By a Submarine The
Crew Was Landed.
Algiers, Algeria, via London, July 21.
The British steamship Grangemoor,
owned by the Moor line of New Castle,
has been eunk by a submarine. The
crew was landed.
London, July 21.--Llo5-ds reports the
British steamship Yzer sunk. It sailed
from Portland, Me., for Cette, France,
June 15.
THREE AMERICANS ON YZER.
Were Members of Crew When She Sailed
from Portland.
Fortland, Me., July 21. Three Amer
icans were members of the crew of the
British steamship Yzer when she sailed
from here with a cargo of grain.
Two Submarines Destroyed.
Berlin, via wireless, July 21. The de
struction in the northern Adriatic July
15 of two submarines, one of them an
Italian vessel, by Austrian topdero boats,
is announced by an official communica
tion from Vienna.
VILLA LEADS FORCE
INTO TORREON,
SAY REPORTS
GUNMEN SHOOT TWO
NEW YORK ITALIANS
Joseph De Marco and Charles Lombard)
Shot and Slashed with
Stilettos.
New York, July 21. Joseph De Mar
co, owner of a restaurant in a section
of the city known as the upp er tenderloin,
and GJfarles Lonibardi, a cler, were
murdered yesterday afternoon in an un
occupied flat of the tenement house at
54 James street by a band of gunmen
who the police lelieve bad a part in the
Barnet Baff murder and several shootings
in the "murder" stable on the upper east
side.
Two minutes after the shots that end
ed the lives of the victims were heard
the police entered the smoke-filled room.
Twelve hat were all they found with tie
two bodies. The police estimates that
at least ten men took part in the double
murder. The bodies of De Marco am:
Lombardi bore evidence of many bullet
wounds and were slashed repeatedly with
stilettos.
KANSAS KEEPS RECORD CLEAN.
Rides Into Town in Coach, with Crutch
at His Side, According to Story
in Juarez.
El Paso, Tex., July 21. Reports were
circulated last night in Juarez that the
Carranza garrison at Torreon, Durango,
130 miles south of Parral, had capitu
lated yesterday to the main Villa band,
led by the bandit chieftain.
The rumors also were to the effect
that Villa, riding in a coach, a crutch
at his side, went into the town and re
ceived the surrender of the government
commander.
Neither General Francisco Gonzales,
Juarez commander, nor General Bell,
commandant here, were inclined to credit
the story.
Reprieve for Stroud, Who Was Sentenced
to Die To-day.
Washington, July 21. Robert IT.
Stroud, sentenced to be hanged to day
for killing a guard in the Leavenworth
federal penitentiary, has been reprieved
by application for a new trial. Not since
18i0 has there been a legal hanging in
Kansas, every governor obeying the 'con
science" law, which precludes the signing
of death warrants.
WANTS ADDITIONAL DETAILS.
State Department Haa Request from Vi
enna About Petroli te.
Washington, D. C, July 21. The state
department to-day received from Aus-
tro-Hungary, through Ambassador Pen-
field at Vienna, a request for additional
details regarding the attack by an Aus
trian submarine on the American tank
steamer Petrolite.
Penfield'g despatch gave no indication
whether the Vienna government intends
to comply with the American demands
for an apology, the punishment of the
submarine commander and reparation for
the damage done by the submarine shell-
fire.
STARVING POLAND.
Russians Capture Gumuskhaneh.
Petrograd, July 21. The capture by
Russian troops of the town of Gumusk
baneh, 45 miles southwest of Trebizond,
in Turkish Armenia, was announced to
day.
SIR SAM HUGHES INNOCENT.
No Responsibility for Negotiation of
Government Fuse Contracts.
Ottawa, July 21. Sir Sam Hughes,
minister of militia, was held by the
Meredith Puff royal commission a inno
cent of any responsibility for the nego
tiation of government fuse contract
with American munitions manufactur
er, from which they were alleged to
have undulr profited. The Ending of
the commission were arnouficed to-day. -aai Tennoade.
President Urges Co-operation in Getting
Food Supplies to Her.
Washington, D. C. July 21. Personal
messages were sent by the president to
day to European rulers urging co-operation
in getting food supplies from the
United States to the starving people of
Poland. Efforts in the same direction
through the state department to the for
eign offices of the countries involved
met with failures.
The Way Vermont Does Things.
Some years ago a determined Green
Mountain boy, Ethan Allen, crossed over
Lake Champlain to Fort Ticonderoga and
"in the name of the Great Jebovah and
the Continental Congress'' commanded
the English to surrender. The memory
of Ethan Allen still lives, as imperish
able as the Rock of Gibraltar and a mon
ument to Vermont's way of doing things.
When Ethan Allen set out from the
Green mountains he had a fixed purpose
in mind and he accomplished that pur
pose. The state of Vermont is still doing
things and the Ethan Allen of the pre3
sent day is Guy W. Bailey, secretary of
state. Mr. Bailey is commander-in-chief
of the publicity of the state and from
his headquarters in Essex Junction he is
sending forth a command which should j
be as effective as the command of Ethan j
Allen. It is commanding because it is
so brimful of courtesy and tne spirit
of hospitality that human nature is
quite likely to surrender to the com
manding influence of the invitation.
A little card which is finding its way
into every nook and corner of the eastern
states reads as follow:
"The state of Vermont extends to you
a cordial invitation to spend your vaca
tion among its Green mountains, or on
the shores of it beautiful lakes and
streams. The acceptance of this invita
tion will ensure you a hearty welcome
and hospitable entertainment; and it is
the hope of this commonwealth that your
stay here will be so pleasant that witu
the approach of each successive vaca
tion period you will anticipate with
eagerness an outing in the Green Moun
tain state."
And then, just to show that good fel
lowship is a predominant character of
Vermonters, there is sent also a card
with this inscription:
This introduces Mr. Any
courtesy that vou mar render will be
Germany continues to talk peace
but in a way that gives no ground for
hoping that peace, will result. " e went
into the war that was forced upon us,
says the Yossiehe Zeitung, "with only
the thought of treeing trermany from
the grip ot its enemies.
As long as intelligent and well in
formed Germans continue to assume that
the war was "forced" on Germany, it
seems a waste of breath to talk of peace.
The allies entertain no doubt that'they
were attacked, after years of prepara
tion. by an imperialist power which was
seeking to become the master of the
world. This conviction, "bom of a studv
of the immediate causes of the war, has
been confirmed by the evidence since of
fered of the completeness of German
military preparation. They do not be
lieve that unrepentant Germany, as long
as under the control of the men and in
fluences that ruled her for two decades,
can be trusted to keep the peace if she
is allowed to emerge from the war as
the strongest military nation. It is ap
prehended that peace under these cir
cumstances would merely mean a truce
in which there would be preparation for
another war. The nest time it is feared
that German diplomacy would be skillful
and that she would attach to herself
stronger allies. . Suppose Germany should
revert to her traditionjl policy, of friend
ship for Russia and revive the three
kaiserbund. Democratic civilization as
understood by France, Great Britain, and
this country would totter to its fall. If
the allies win the war it will be because
of Rusnia, and Russia would have been
on the other side if the Teuton autocracy
had not been guilty of the practical folly
of arousing against itself the national
feeling of the Slavs.
A draw does not mean peace, and no
true pacifist can so believe. No decision
would mean that the democratic coun
tries, including our own, would need to
arm themselves as never before. The,
army and navy appropriations made by
Congress this year are large. It would
be necessary to double or triple them
should the news come from over the wa
ter that an inconclusive peace had been
made. No responsible American states
man would dare ny that this country
could rely on being let alone. Ordinary
prudence would require us also to learn
the goosestep if the world against ir
wish is to be ruled on goosestep prin
ciples.
Sound Americans do not want this
country to become a militaristic nation.
They want us to have a chance to con
tinue to be pacific. Their interests and
tneir habits are opposed to livinc in a
force-ruled world. They have dreamed
the great dream of the human family as
a brotherhood. But sound Americans are
realists as well as idealists. They .recog
nize what is as well as what should be.
Thev know that have read some history
and thev recall what happened to Athens
and to Carthage when they sought to be
pacific when their neighbors were mili
taristic.
I nils America is vitallv concerned in
the sort of peace that is made taking
the long view is as much concerned as
any other nation. To protect America's
future militaristic imperialism must be
brought to its knees. It is necessary to
discourage war lords it is necessary to
have no ruler begin a war and then have
his people accept as true, his unsupported
assertion that the conflict was "forced"
on him. New York Glbe.
SERIOUSLY
BURNED
Brouillet Lost Way in the
Smoky Factory at
Rutland
GRIMM PLANT
WAS THREATENED
Manager Notified, Rushes
to Fire and Into Plant
At Hospital
Rutland. July 21. The plant of G. H.
Grimm fc Co., manufacturers 5f evapora
tors and other maple sugar-makers' sup
plies, was damaged by fire last evening
about $2,000. J. Leo Brouillet, the gen
eral manager, was seriously burned, har-
ing lost his way in the smoke. He is at
the Rutland hospital.
The fire was discovered in the second
tory of the large wooden structure on
Pine street about 8:45 by Ernest An-
drus, who was passing. He notified Mr.
Brouillet, who was at work in the office,
nd the latter tushed into the burning
section.
The fire was confined to the second
floor. .
FIRE AT SOUTH RYEGATE.
House of G. Zam belli and Occupied by
Mrs. Rosa, Destroyed.
.South Ryegate, July 21. The house
i the Blue mountain road owned by
Zambelli and occupied by Mrs. Angelo
Rosa, her children and a number of
boarders, caught fire and burned to the
ground Wednesday morning about 3:30
lock. The cause of the fire remains a
mystery, though it is thought a lighttl
match or half-burned cigar dropping on
the piazza floor may have caused it, one
the boarders sleeping on the piazza,
r. Zambelli paid $1800 for the house
nd has only $1000 insurance, so he sus-
ains quite a loss, but fortunately Mrs.
Kosa's furniture was well insured. The
cupants were unable to save even their
clothing.
MISS JESSIE ROBERTSON.
Death of Well Known Barre Young
Woman After Long Illnesa.
Mis Jessie Roliertson, a well known
Barre young woman, passed away at her
home on I'errin street thi morning l
4:30 o'clock, the end follow ing a linger
ing illnes. She I urvived by three
iters. Miss Margaret II. Robertson,
Mrs. John McMinn and Mi Anna R.
Robertson, who i employed in the office
of the city water department, and a
brother, William Roliertson of Boston.
There is left also a niece, Ml Katherine
Robertson of Barre. Mis Robertson wa
22 year old, having been born in Barre
May 22, 1S04. As a mger she possessed
an unusually rich contralto voice and for
some time she w a member of the choir
at the Barre Congregational church. The
funeral arrangement have not been
made.
COMING TO BARRE SATURDAY.
St Johnsbury Golf Club Will Play Match
with Barre Club.
Notice was received yesterday that the
St. Johnsbury Golf club would be at the
Barre Golf club links at 3 p. m. Saturday
for a match with the home team. The
memler of the Barre club usually play
ing on the team are asked to be in readi
nes for the game.
A week from Saturday the Burlington
club will play a match on the Barre
links.
The Bhrre club will be represented by
six or more players at the state cham
pionship meet at Rutland Aug. 3-5, and
the following week there will be held the
Greensboro, Montpelier and Barre three
cornered match on the Montpelier course.
The Barre team has a busy time in pros
pect.
INSANITY MAY '
BE DEFENCE
FOR WILLIAMS
This Indicated in Cross-Ex-amination
of Dr W. R.
Rowland by Def a's At
torney, Stanley Wilson,
in Orange C ity Court
Yesterday ' jrnoon
ROWLAND'S STORY ".
SENSATI0NAU
FALLING BOOM KILLS FOREMAN.
LETTER ON DEUTSCHLAND.
Mr.
and Mrs. Winnewisser of Bellows
Falla Send Message to Daughter.
Bellows Falls, July 21. Mr. and Mrs.
Fred C. Winnewisser of this town will
watch with interest reports of the return
trip of the German submarine Peutech
land, which is preparing to sail from
Baltimore on its return trip to Berlin
Thev attended the convention of Elks in
Baltimore last week and became ac
quainted with Arthur Gretenfeld, the ra
dio operator, and when he sails on tra
submarine he will carry with him a letter
to their daughter, who has been studying
music in Berlin the past three years.
Because of the uncertainty of mail
from this country reaching Berlin, com
municsjtion between parents and daugh
ter have not been regular. Gretenfeld
lives in Berlin and has promised to de
liver the letter in person.
Mr. Winnewisser savs that the crew
of the submarine anticipate a safe jour
ney home. hen wished a safe voy
age (irctenteld repnen, iveine ireneg,.
which, literally translated means,
doubt about it."
Wallace Bedell Meets Death Wbile at
Work in Claremont.
Claremont, N. H.. July 21. Wallace,
better known as "Bill" Bedell, was killed
yesterday at Red Water-brook trestle
of the Claremont Railway and Lighting
company.
Bedell was foreman of the erection of
new abutmenta and a large derrick wag
employed for hoisting stone. One of the
guys broke, bringing the strain on a
pine tree, to which the other guy was
hitched, and broke it off at the butt like
a pipe stem. The derrick fell endanger
ing several men who succeeded in get
ting out of the way, but the mast struck
Bedell on the head. He died about ten
minutes after. He leaves a wife and
several children who live on the Twist
Back road. His son, Pearl, of Spriupfield,
Vt., arrived here yesterday to take
charge of the funeral arrangements.
Swore that Williams Told
Him of Improper Rela
tions With Mrs. Felch, and
That Both Planned to
Raise Money to Get
Away from Own Homes
With
FAT MEN ON OUTING.
About 40 Members of New England Club
Have Dinner at St. Albans.
DIED FROM MERCURY.
FOOD RIOTS IN BELGIUM
Have Been Suppressed By the German
Military Authorities.
Rotterdam, via London. July 21. Food
riote which broke out in Belgium and
northern Franc have been uppreed bv
the German military authorities, accord
ing to reports from reliable sounds.
Rioting was especiallr severe at Liege,
Vervier. Roubaix, St. Nicholas, Lokern
appreciated by the Vermont publicity
department.
There's something exhiliarating about
this eoramandingly wholesome invita
tion to mingle with our neighbors over
the line. It creates the desire to know
them better to bk in the sunshine of
their sunny slopes and come in contact
with the breezes of their watered areas
and mountainous heights, feasting upon
scenic beauties which are nowhere sur
passed. If, a we are told "it hel along the
Rio Grande," heaven must be in Ver
mont at least that ia what Guy W. Bai-
ley ha made us believe. Glen Falls'
Times.
To Mend a Tablecloth.
"When a tablecloth begins to break or
ft small hole appears," say a writer in
Farm and Fireside," cut a piece of white
paper somewhat larger than the place to
be mended, baste over the hole and stitch
on sewing machine, lengthwise and cross
wise, very closely and evenly. It will
look much neater and is easier than darn
ing or patching by hand. 1 also mend
sheets and bedspreads the same way.
The paper will disappear when washed."
Celia P. Adams Autopsy So Shows, Says
Magrath.
Boston, July 21. Mercury poisoning
was the cause of the death of Dr. Celia
P. Adams, sweetheart of Pr. Eldredge P.
Atwood, who shot Pr. Wilfred E. Harris
Tuesday, it was announced last night by
Medical Examiner George B. Magrath, as
the result of a chemical analvsis of the
girl's vital organs during the day.
Pr. Magrath could not, however, de
termine the form of the poison or the
conditions under which it was taken
Therefore, the question as to whether
Pr. Adams was a suicide or the victim
of another's plotting still remains un
solved.
His statement, issued late last night,
was as follows:
"The poison from the effects of which
Pr. Celia P. Adams came to her death
has been shown bv chemical examination
to be mercury.
"The form in which the poison wa
taken, as well as other facts relative to
its teception, are at present undeter
mined."
St. Albans, July 21. About 40 mem
bers of the New England Fat Men's club
reached here early last evening on their
12th annual outing. After dinner at The
Tavern, the party enjoyed a concert giv
en on javior parte Dy tne m. Ainans
Brigade band, and left about fl o'clock in
special Pullmans attached to the United
States Limited, for Kingston, Ont. To
day they are cruising on the Ramona
through the Thousand islands, reaching
Alexandria bay to-night. They will
leave to-morrow for Montreal, arriving
there at 6:30. leaving for home at 9:30.
J. M. Shea, New England agent for the
Canadian Steamship Lines, Ltd., has
charge of the arrangements for the
party.
TO DEVELOP POWER.
Chelsea, July 21. Events moved swift
ly in the Felch murder trial yesterday
and to-day. Speculation over the way
that the testimony of important wit
nesses will be shaped was heightened
when counsel for the defense, in cross
examining Dr. W. R. Rowland of East
Corinth, asked a question involvinir the
mental condition of the respondent, Otis
Williams, prior to the murder, a ques
tion the nature of which may portend
the setting up of insanity aa a defense.
Whether the cryptic query of Attorney
Stanley C. Wilson indicates that the de
fense is relying on insanity as a plea
for Williams' acquittal will be known in
a short time. At any rate, many who
have followed the trial from day to day
attached much significance to the ques
tion. Strenuous objections from the
NEW CITIZENS.
Followed Orders.
"Hey," called the carpenter to his ap
prentice. "didn"t I tell you to notice
when the glue boiled over!"
"Yes," answered the boy, "it was just
quarter past ten:
3
Cause for Thankfulness.
"I can't undertnd why men should
complain about their wives having the
Mast word. I nevr object to mine hav
ing the lat word."
"You don't ?
No Competit'en.
"Pubbs. the traveling a!emn. trar
ried a vtry homely woman, didnt he?"
"Yes; when he was courting hT be
UFed to say it a pitie pleasure to
enter a fifld where there j no competi
tion:" ryk.
Eight Apply for Second Papers and
Given First
Clerk F. S. Piatt of Rutland concluded
his Washington county visit at the cap
ital yesterday when 13 prospective citi
zens "re-eived their first papers. Clerk
Piatt was assisted by two attaches. The
list of candidates receiving papers was as
follows:
First papers granted .lose Canales,
Montpelier, Spain; Floyd O. Christopher,
Brookfield. Province of Quebec; Sher
wood P. Christopher, Brookfield, Province
of Quebec; Felipe Castillo, Montpelier,
Spain; Willei! Joy I. Montpelier. Prov
ince of Quebec; Isaac Mellor, Waitsfleld,
England; Antonyo Zuanich. Montpelier.
Autri; Philip Grodinsky, Swanton,
F.ngland; Samuel Grodiinsky, St. Al
bans. Russia.
Second papors pplied for Julian Ai.
Montpelier. Spain: Louis Cantolla. Mont
pelier. Spain; Cesidio Cenci. Montpelier.
Italy; Ponato Coletti. Montpelier, Italy;
FdoVardo Fontana. Montpelier. Italy;
.Jame Halloran. Montpelier. Ireland; j
Hrman Leventiial, Montpelier. Russia;'
Worden Saleba, Montpelier, Syria.
Swanton's New Hydroelectric Plant Will
Cost About $70,000.
Swanton, July 21. At an adjourned
village meeting last evening it was voted
to develop the Highgate power to the
extent of a 1,000-horsepower unit, which
will cost approximately $55,000. This
means that a new powerhouse will be
erected at the foot of the rapids, where
the fall is very much greater than the
present plant, which is located near the
dam. This step has become necessary
owing to the constantly increasing de
mand for electricity for both lighting
and motor purposes. The blasting for
the new penstock will begin at once and
It is expected the new plant- will be in
operation by next May. This work will
cost around $15,000, so that the total
cost of development for Swanton's new
hydroelectric plant will be around $i0,-
000.
DROWNING AT BRATTLEB0RO.
Old
Boy Sank Without Warning in an
Swimming Hole.
Brattleboro, July 21. John Fleming,
16, son of John J. Fleming of Elliot
street, was drowned just after noon yes
terday in Whetstone brook in the swim
ming hole south of Elm street. He had
been in the water only a few minutes
when he sank. A smaller boy, who had
dressed and was watching Fleming, ex
tended a stick which Fleming grasped
but could not hold. It waa some 15 min
utes before Fred Hescook was told of the
accident. He can to the place and
dragged out the body. A pulmotor was
used nearly two hour before efforta at
resuscitation were abandoned. The boy
leaves his father, three sisters and two
brothers.
Texan Kills Wife and Army Officer.
Alpine, Tex., July 21. Maj. M. C.
Butler of the Sixth I. S. cavalrv, and
Mrs. J. H. Spannel, with whom he was I
out riding in n automobile, were shot!
Spsnnell, husband of the woman.
Immediately after the shooting Spsn
nell went to the jail and surrendered
Spannell is the proprietor of the Holland
hotel here.
Allen T. Fisher, who has been visitin
reUtives on Highland avenue for a few
dys, left this noon for Greenfield, Mass.,
where he is employer! in a machine shop.
Mis Josephine Brusa. who is taking
prosecution followed when the witness,
replying to the question, stated that
Williams, on the occasion of hi (the
doctor's) last visit with him was "more
or less under the ordinary mentality."
This morning the defense complet-d
the cross examination of Dr. Rowland
soon after court came in at 9 o'clock. The
testimony was mostly concerned with
details of what was covered when the
physician told his interesting story yes
terday of conversation with the accused.
Dr. Rowland was succeeded on the stand
by Eugene Williams, brother of the re
spondent, but after he had been sworn
the prosecution decided to introduce his
testimony later in the case. He was
withdrawn for the time being.
In mid forenoon Deputy Sheriff Law
rence Welch, who arrested Williams, was
asked to take the stand. He testified
as to some of the formal steps taken to
bring the detention(of Williams and wa
asked at this juncture to repeat a con
versation he had with the respondei.t
after his arrest. It was intimated thai
the talk took place after Williams hacl
been lodged in the jail and to the ques
tion the defense interposed an objection.
The jury was dismissed from the room
while Judge Stanton listened to the at
torneys for the prosecution and defense
discuss the question. Until near noon
the time was spent in debating a ques
tion as to whether the deputy sheriff
had properly warned Williams, before
listening to his statement, that what he
said might be used against him. Also
the question developed as to whether
there is any statutory restriction im
posed on an officer in discussing with the
prisoner the charge preferred against
him. At 11:4. o'clock this forenoon the
court took the usual noon recess, a bit
earlier to-day in order to permit coun
sel for the defense and the prosecution
to look up the status of 'an officer with
reference to his relation with a prisoner
in his custody.
Reconvening at 1:45 o'clock this after
noon the court was ready to hear the ar
guments on the question and it was ex
pected that Deputy Sheriff Welch would
be recalled to the stand at once.
Nothing of a more senational nature
has developed at any time during the
trial than the testimony of the Corinth
physician as he unfolded the story of
two conferences with the prUoner in the
days preceding the tragedy at Topsham
on the night of April 22. when Joseph
Felch came to his death in the sugar-
house. Owing to the heat, conditions
within the court room were well nigh
unlearable, but during the witneis ab
sorbing recital of Williams' own admis
sions concerning his relations with Mr.
Felch the spectators listened breathless
ly and for the moment the humidity wa
forgotten. Perhaps a hundred fans were
poised before eacer-eyed spectators a
hnds involuntarily stopped the wying
two weeks' vacation from her duties i movement of the palm leaves when' Pr
as cierK in trie . v . narrwen ury
Good store in Northtield, left this morn
ing after visiting at the home of Mrs.
Erminia Colombo on Tleasant street, fcr
Waterhury. where she will visit for the
remainder of the week with relative.
Rowland, in carefully measured syllables.
swore that William told him of im
proper relations with Mrs. Felch o
many occa-inns. that she usually made
(Continued on eighth pje )
I
