TON ' ii .Iff A 11 IRK
WES
NO. 5.
VOL. XXXVI.
WESTON, OIIEGON, rni DA V, JULY 21, 191C
WORLD'S DOINGS
Of CURRBiT WI
Brief Fsstnne of tail Hews
foAIiArcr-dtEsTti
Uve News Hems of Ail Nations md
' Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Readers.
The allies continue to make big
gains against Um central powers on all
side.
JTbe senate navel program Includes
1 I a I t I LI-.. .IVI. iku
9MML
.Wilson postpones date of notification
seremomee snwi uw wim
louroe, ,
-. .vviuiuoib riwar mmih j
bold a meet at Portland and declare
' -1 . . . L. I -J . i.--I - u-1. M
against uw "soars.
Three persona In an auto on their
way w a circus in lows, run inrouga
brtdg railing and art drowned.
Tha Brltlah vorernment nubllshss
lilt of from 70 to SO flrms In the Unit
ad Btates with whom resident of the
United Klncdom ara forbidden to
trade.
Four persona were killed by tba In
tone boat which amotberad Chicago
Tuesday, anothar was klllad by light-
ning, and three, asking raliaf In tha
lake, vara drowned.
In Volhynla, in tha rtglon of Lutak,
where tha troops of tha Teutonic allies
hare bean forced to give ground before
the attacks of tha RoMlane and retire
behind the Lower Llpa river, the Rua
Una continue to preaa their foea and
are taking additional prisoners.
General Clprlnno Castro, ex-presl
dent of Venesuela, and 'hla wife, who
arrived In New York Saturday from
Port of 8paln, Trinidad, on the steam
hip Vaubsn, have been ordered de-
Dorted from the United btatee by
apeeial board of Inquiry at the Kllla
Island Immigration station.
The new llarahan bridge a panning
tha Mississippi river at Memphis, aaid
to' be the longest structure on the
river, waa opened to traffic this week.
It coat IS, 000, 000. Including ap
proaches the bridge la three miles
ions- the bridge proper being 8600 feet.
Construction waa started In June, 191S.
The epidemic of Infantile paralysis
in , New York ha been checked. In the
opinion or Health commissioner cmer
son, who Issued a statement In which
h a Irf tha diminution In the number
of new cases and deaths Indicated that
tha health authorities are reaching Uis
eases earlier and are finding a way to
control mam.
William Botbweli, , former Seattle
City Controller, and recently a apeeial
omeer on tne wsienront, waa smau,
ai W W Mnrrla and C. V. Harvav.
members of the prohibition enforce
ment squad or tne Seattle police lores,
mm aarlnnaltf wounded in a nlstol
fight which resulted from raid on the
Ferguson Bar, in the Ferguson Hotel,
' Monday. ''
Tha captain of the German subma
rine freighter says German rreignt
earrylng ' Zeppelins will toon visit
America.
War's Increase of food prices In Eu
rope, aa shown by the bureau of labor
statistics, has touched neutrals almost
aa heavily as it bas the belligerents.
"A corporation will be organised by
group of American bankers, beaded by
J. P. Morgan Uo.. ana Brown tuoin-
ers Co., to lend 1100,000,000 to the
French government. ,
.William Zlmmar, aged 12 years, was
arrested in New Orleans, charged with
klllins? his mother. The boy, accord
ing to tha nollee. aaid he shot his
mother because she threatened to beat
him when be returned home after an
unsuccessful search for work.
The engagement Is announced of
Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain, widow of
the late British it teaman, and the
Rev. William Hartley Carnegie, rector
of St, Margaret, and canon of West
minster. Before her marriage, Mrs.
Chamberlain was Miss Mary Endlcott,
of Massachusetts.
Ths Socialist newspaper Tribune,
of Amsterdam, assarts that 68,000
workmen employed In the munition
factories and electrical works In Ber
lin arid In an aerodrome at Johanisthal
have gone on strike aa a protest
against the prison sentence Imposed on
Dr. Karl Liebknecht, Socialist lesder,
for participation in the May Day dem
onstration at Berlin.
A boy of 10 was killed and two girl
playmates injured at Portland when
their coaster wagon ran Into a motor
truck.
. Russian troops have eaptured the
'town of Msmakhatum, 60 miles west
of Erserum. on the Tusulu river, by
assault. The retreating Turks set Ore
to the town.
The Georgia bouse refused, 61 to SI,
to adopt a special rule for considera
tion of a suffrage amendment. The
result is expected to end the fight for
suffrsgs at this session of the legislature.
Germans, In Deadly Fear, Hide the Merchant Submarine.
Arrow Shorn the DcuUchland.
la deadly fear that some one will
blow ap or try to injure the merchant
submarine Deutachtand the Germane la
charge of her have hidden her away la
Baltimore harbor so it Is almost Impos
sible for the publle to get a glimpse
of bar. ' Bbe la alongside a pier and la
VISON VOTS SDUIf 10 ATPUl
fC2 PASSACf Cf CK1D LASOR UW
Wahincton. D. C Pressldent Wil
son made a personal visit to the Cap!
tolTueadsy to emphasise bis desire
that a ehild labor law be put on
statute books at the present session of
congress. To senate leaders whom he
summoned to a' series of conferences
in the President's room adjoining the
senate chamber, he Insisted that toe
child labor bill Passed by the bouse
should be made a part of the legisla
tive Drocram to be put through the
senate before adjournment.
"Determined opposition by South
ern senators i or ceo me nouse diil
hlch would prevent shipment In in
terstate commerce of goods manufac
tured wholly or In part by children,
out of the imperative program drawn
op by the Democratic caucus last Sat
urday. It was left In a secondary po-
sltlon. to be considered only If ti
remained after other measures regard
ed aa more urgent bad been disposed
of. Mr. Wilson had been told that an
effort to force lis passage would mean
serious party revolt.
Whether the Preaident'a visit ae-
eomDlishsd anything more than to
bring his own position emphstlcaliy to
tha front, waa not apparent Tuesday
night So far aa could be learned the
Democratic steering committee con-
To Succeed Judge Hughes.
It
Wigitoi.iTT'AWil
': Judge John II. Clarke.
Judge John II. Clark s of the United
Sutes District Court at Cleveland has
been nomlnsted by President Wilson
for associate justice of the United
States Supreme court to succeed Asso
ciate Justice Charles E. Hughes.
In Cleveland Judge Clarke for a long
time was associated in politices with
the late Mayor Tom Johnson and Sec
retary of War Baker. He has been
classed aa a Progressive Democrat and
has taken part In several reform movements.-
Notaries Reap Riches.
Spokane, Wash. One hundred dol
lars for six dsys'.work is the wage
scale of the notaries who are handling
the registration for the opening of the
Colvllle reservation in Spokane, fig
ured on the basis that there will be
60,000 registrations in Spokane.
This rate of compensation, However,
Is far below that at Wenacthee, where
It Is estimated that each notary will
receive about $276 for his work In
handling the registration. The differ
ence comes in the larger proportion of
notaries in Spokane than Wenatchee,
Elkus Is Sent to Turkey. .
Washington, D. C Abrsm Elkus,
of Nsw York, was nominated by Presi
dent Wilson as ambassador to Turkey
to succeed Henry Morgenthsu, who re
tired to become chairman of the finance
committee of the Democratic National
eommltttee. Mr. Elkus is a lawyer
and was recommended by Mr. Morgen
thsu. Mr. Elkus is 60 years old and
was born and educated In New York
City. He has been one of the Jewish
leaders of the United SUtes.
V1 Jw -
flanked en the opposite side by a
barge. At one end is the high wall of
a warehouse, and at the other is a tog.
Strung along the warehouse and the
pier Is barbed wire. Extending out
from the barge Is a boom, and from
this boom wire netting is dropped to
templsted no change in the caucus pro
gram and no call had been Issued for
another caucus to consider Mr. Wil
son's request.
The President's arrival st the Capl
tol was entirely unheralded. Accom
panied only by two secret service men,
be went directly to the President's
room and aent for Senator Kern, the
majority leader. Later he diacoaeed
the subject with Vice President Mar
shall, Senators Martin.. Williams,
James and Owen, of the Democratic
steering committee, and Senators Sim
mons and Hughes.
deed Waters Destroy b&t
UcnV&seof 150 Pecple
Bnertanburc. N. C According to
Information brought bare Tuesday
night by !!. A, Marietta, who went to
Thermal City. N. C, In an automobile
Monday, the village of Chimney Rock,
N. C, near the famous rock of that
name, waa completely washed away by
the high waters of Hroad river. The
population of the town was about 160.
According to Hariette a party went
to Chimney Rock to try to rescue those
caught by tha flood, but water sur
rounding the village prevented them
from getting close to the houses.
They saw no signs of human life, it
was said. The postofSce and hotel
were washed to a point several miles
below the village.
Ashevllla, N. C. Receding waters
of the disastrous floods which swept
through the French board valley Sun
day gave up seven additional bodies
wsdnesdsy and reports or eignt more
deaths by drowning in tha Bat cava
section brought the total death list in
this district to 28. Indications were
that the property loss in Western
North Carolina alone may be $12,000,-
000. Fears are felt that the loss of
life and property may prove aven
greater when the rivers subside.
Has Longest Range Aircraft Guns.
Washington, D. C. Construction of
enough high-powered anti-aircraft guns
to supply all active battleships and
cruisers of the navy has been com
pleted, it was announced Tuesday by
Secretary Daniels. The new weapons
la believed by navy experts to be the
longest range guns of that type in the
world.
The new gun is a three-inch, 60 call
ber weapon that will throw a shell 27,'
000 feet in air at an angle of 90 de
grees. On each ship one will be
mounted forward and one art, with an
all-round Are so that the pair can
sweep the skies in any direction.
Guna Thunder on Vardar. .
Parte The war office haa given out
the following statement covering the
operations of the army of the Orient
from July 1 to July 16:
"East of ' the Vardar artillery ac
tions, often Intense,' have occurred
daily on the front Advance post en
gagements of little Importance took
place July 7 north of Kalinoko, 10 kil
ometers south of Lake Doiran. "West
of the Vardar our patrols and light de
tachments have had frequent skirm
ishes with the enemy, who always was
obliged to retreat"
. Cessment Appeal Denied.
London Without hearing the attor
neys for the Crown, the Court of Crim
inal Appeal dismissed Sir Roger, Case
ment's sppeal from the verdict of the
lower court, which found him guilty of
treason for his part in tha Irish rebel
lion, for which the Lord Chief Justice
sentenced him to death. A further ap
peal to tha House of Lords is possible
only if the attorney general gives a
certificate that the decision of ths
Court of Criminal Appeal Involves a
point of law so important that a still
higher court should deal with it
Guards Drawn From Spoksne.
Spokane, Wash. Spokane has sent
between 25 and 80 ex-policemen, dep
uty sheriffs, guards, special officers
and ex-United States deputy marshals
to the Seattle and Taeoma waterfronts
to assist In keeping order during the
longshoremen's and cock workers
strike. A week ego Jack Wemick,
chief special agent for the Chicago,
Milwaukee ft St Paul railroad, with
headquarters Jn Spokane, came for
deputies to guard Milwaukee property.
Jr..
the bottom so that the only possible
approach to the vessel Is from directly
sbove. Even a view of more then the
periscope and an occasional outline of
the dock la impossible. The boot In
the distance Is the German interned
merchantman Neckar.
L W. W. Are Drhta Out of
Ike's, K&asfci, ty Sheriff
Lincoln, Neb. Following a clash at
the county jail late Tuesday night be
tween County Sheriff Hires and mem
bers of the Industrial 'Workers of the
World who came to Lincoln to effect
the release of members of the order
who had been detained, peace was
effected through the release of two of
the men held by the authorities and
there was an exodus of a hundred or
more "workers," who have been here
several days.
The collision between Sheriff Hires
and the Industrial Workers came when
a delegation of two or three score ap
proached the jail ami Insisted on the
release of the prisoners. One of the
men, whose attitude waa regarded
threatening, waa knocked down by the
eheriff, who then drew bia revolver
and warned the delegation to keep its
distance.
The peaceably inclined Industrial
Workers told the officer no violence
waa intended, and afWa long parley
itwaaaareed that two of the men
aaainst whom charges were pending
should be released, provided the others
left with them. The exodus began
Immediately. Seven members against
whom char gee are pending are held.
rWWWWwWVwVvAArAeAArV
Boss of Woman's Party.
few, .v
Miss Anne Martin of Nevada, ia
chairman of the campaign committee
of the National Woman's Party, and
ahe will manage her campaign in
twelve suffrage states. There the men
managers of the other two parties will
have to take the lady into considera
tion and be very nice to her.
. Suffrage School Opens.
Washington, D. C Women who
desire to become active suffrage work
ers, but who feel that they are noi
qualified to take up the varied dutie
of lobbyists, organisers or stump
speakers, need not despair. There is
a way out for them now, as they can
learn all that is necessary to be full-
fledged suffragists at tha "suffrage
school," which haa just been opened
here by women of the Congressional
Union for. Woman Suffrage. . Miss
Maud Youmrer. of San Francisco, Is
head of the new school
Bootleggers to Be Shot.
Charleston. W. Vs. Police officers
employed by the Chesapeake A Ohio
railroad in West Virginia have been
ordered to carry rifles as well aa revol
vers to resist efforts of bootleggers and
their agents to bring liquors into this
state.
These officers have also been Instruc
ted to work in squads of four or singly
or in pairs. The orders resulted from
the increased numbers of attempts to
violate the state prohibition laws.
jlLiawWi&S' V'. J... . - ami
NEWS ITEMS
Of General Interest .
About Oregon
y-yUUsV"sVsreii,",aii s sisf
Arguments in Favor of Three
New Legislative Acts Art Piled
Salem Arguments In behalf of the
proposed tax limitation amendment.
rural credits amendment and the
amendment to repeal Oregon's 8unday
closing law were filed with Secretary
of 8tate Oleott this week for Inclusion
In the official election pamphlet.
The ta limitation argument
submitted by Robert E. Smith, a
tory of the Oregon Taxpayers' Leajrae,
the rural credits argument by the com
mittee In charge of the Oregon Refer
endum League, and the argument for
the repeal of the Sunday closing law
by Dan Kellaher and Ben A. Bellamy,
of the Independent Retailers'
tion of Portland.
The arcuoeoU for the three pro
posed amendments in part are as fol
lows:
Are taxes In Oregon high enough?
Shall we limit their further Increase
to per cent a year? These are the
Questions la considering the State-
Wide Tax Limitation Amendemnt
Oregon's per capita tax is higher
than that of any other state in the
Union. During the past ton years
taxes have increased 87 per cent a
year. Taxes have increased five times
faster than population.
As a result Oregon bas been going
backward In population and wealth for
the pest three years. Last year seven
families left the state to each
family coming into it In the face of
these discouraging conditions there are
those who have plans which will result
In still greater increases in our taxes.
Unless a limit U provided the legisla
ture and our public officiate will con
tinue to increase our taxes aa rapidly
aa they have In the past
"The amendment limits the Increase
in taxation to an annual increase not
to exceed six per cent unless a greater
increase ia authorised by the people.
"The farm debt of Oregon, secured
by reel and chattel mortgagee, ia con
servatively estimated at xmwauw.
On this debt the farmers are paying
an averaee rate of about eignt and
one-fourth per cent interest Added
to this the costs of renewal and com
missions, the rate paid ia probably
little under nine and one-fourth per
cent
The rural credits amendment pro
poses to take the burden out of the
farm mortgage at interest of five per
cent The cost of title searching and
aDorsisal wiU be from $10 to $50, ac
cording to the amount of the loan. The
fanner must pay off one per cent of
the oH final sum borrowed each year.
That ia, the payment of six per cent
on the mortgage will pay interest cost
of operation and wipe out tne debt en
tirely in a period of Be years.
'This system would mean to Oregon
an annual saving In interest and mort
gage costs of $750,000. It would mean
an end to the perpetual worry and ex
pense of tnortinga renewing; pracu
eally an end to foreclosures, lost homes
and blighted hopes; better equipped
farms and neater rural prosperity.
"The continuation, of the old blue
law. which will be enforced if not re
pealed, simply means putting the peo
ple of Oregon in a straight-jacket on
Sundays. If not repealed this anti-
auated law will be enforced strictly,
aa it ia now being done in Washington,
Lane. Linn, and other counties in Ore
gon, where now you cannot purchase a
newspaper, a cigar, refreshments, gas
oline ot anything else on Sunday.
"If enforced it means that all mov
ing picture theaters must dose on Sun
days; it means that no baeet'U games
can be played on Sundays; it means
that all pool and billiard parlors, and
bowling alleys or other innocent exer
cising sports and recreations operated
for pay or profit must not operate on
Sundays; it means that Sunday news
papers cannot be printed, sold or deliv
ered on Sundays; it means that all
pleasure resorts and recreation delights
of all kinds. Including picnics, must
cease on Sundays, if entrance f sea or
ehareee are made,
"lee cream, confections, foods or ail
kinds, and regular business of any
kind except medicines, and medicines
only, at drug stores cannot be sold
delivered on Sundays. It means that
yon cannot get a ahoe-ahine, that you
cannot buy a cigar, or candies, or flow
era, on Sundays, unless you can prove
them necessities or charities." .
School Terms Increased.
The school directors of Clatsop coun
ty have increased the length of their
terms of school until the abort term of
six or seven months during the year
has been almost entirely eliminated.
The annual report of County Superin
tendent Byland, which haa just been
filed With Superintendent or i-udiic in
struction J. A. Churchill, shows that
last year there were but two districts
in the county having six months of
school, while more than three-fourths
of the remaining districts had terms of
nine months.
Prison Employes Quit.
Salem T. E. Cornelius, head of the
Oregon Penitentiary trick yard, has
resigned, and his wife, who is matron
in eharse of the women's ward, win
reaign at the end of the present month.
Mr. Cornelius haa been connected witft
the penitentiary for six and a half
years under four administrations and
haa served as deputy warden, cnapet
guard, farmer- and superintendent of
the brick yard. Superintendent Minto
said that it was the intention to does
the brick yard this month, as the men
would be needed in the flax fields.
New Orleans A statement sod call
to "the patriotic men and women of
America," to bold a new National con
vention of the Progressive party In
Chiearo en August 6 and nominate
candidates for President end Vice Pres
ident and continue the party's exist
ence aa a distinct political organisa
tion, was Issued Monday by John M.
Parker, Vice Presidential nominee of
the Progressive convention held in Chi
cago last June, lie urge tAe rToirree
sives "eternally to bury" the "bun
moose." which, be asaerts, "led Bis
loyal followers Into the wilderness.
and to adopt In Its place the American
eagle aa the emblem of the party.
Mr. Parker does not mention Col
onel Roosevelt or any other Progres
sive leaders or any candidates by
me. He declares, however, that the
Progreseivaa bad supposed its leaders
to be "red-blooded Americana, wno
Eliseo Arrodondo, ambassador desig
nate from General Carranza'a Mexican
government to the United Statea, la
eery busy right now in the negotia
tions which Secretary Linsing baa
opened up with the Mexicans to settle
the border trouble. This snapshot
shows him on one of his rare visits to
the secretary of state.
oromiaed with their 'life blood' to stay
with the party had been deserted by a
large part of its officers, who could not
stand the add test He charges that
the leaders, for "steam roller reasons,
have elected to be ateara rolled,'; and
that the time haa come when every
party working for human welfare and
the future of America should unite
against both dominant parties.- In
connection with the Republican party
the statement indirectly refers to
Charles E. HuKhes, Republican candi
date for President as "a splendid
n" selected by the Republicans
the man behind which they hope again
to secure control of state and nation.
t Refused by Conferee
Waahlnirton. D. C Increasea rang
ing from I to 8 cents a hundred pounds
on lumber from tne racine norwwesi
to New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas
mm diaamiraved be the Interstate
Commerce commission Monday on the
- . . . - n 1
ground that they were not justineo. on
he ' around or uniformity. . ine in-
hH ntM held unreasonable are
those filed to become effective January
1315, and suspended oy ine commis
sion. : ""
Tho mmmiaaion also cites the con
tention of shippers that were these in
creasea to become operative caiirornia
lumber and particularly California
Mnrrlaa WNllj Ha shift larffelv to ab-
sorb the New Mexico, Oklahoma and
Texaa markets to the exclusion or lum
ber products from the Northwest
Penny Holds Up. -Rifles.
Albany, Or. Because a 1-cent reve
nue stamp waa missing from a ship
ping receipt the Albany Civilians'
Rifle Club will be delayed about 10
days in receiving its supply of rifles
for target practice, president bten
macher, of the dub, received word
several days ago that the rifles would
be shipped from the United SUtes ar
senal at Benicia, Cat. Word came
that the shipment could not be made
until a 1-cent revenue stamp was sent
for the shipping receipt The stamp
waa sent at once.
' Berlin Beer-Drinking Hit.
Amsterdam, via London A protest
against the consumption of barley for
the making of beer is made in a letter
to Chancellor von Beth man n-Hollweg,
signed by 80,000 members . of Good
Templar Lodges in Germany.
The letter points out the "gigantic
waste of bread material." in the use
of large quantities of barley for the
production of beer. It urges tnst Here
after beer be only supplied on bread
tickets.
Represents Carranza.
1 -J
Al
I - - r-...:'. ;. j
V-:.- " : f 'i
- .. ,
FORQGfl TRADE I!J
YEAR 6 BlUIOliS
Export Tcie Me fat if fcpsrts
All FOrJSIB EtCO$ EHOKEN
Munitions of War (or Twelve Months
Predominating rFactor Steel
and Iron Take Big Jump;
Washington. D. C The country's
foreign trade during the fiscal' year
ending with last month reached a tota'
of $6,625,000,000, exceeding by many
millions all previous records, according
to preliminary figures announced
Tbursdsy by the Commerce depart
ment Exports were valued at 14,-
$45,000,000 and , imports at $2,180,
000,000. The figures are based on complete
returns for the first 11 months of the
year and estimates for Jane.
The war munitions trade wae the
predominating factor in estabishing
the nsw exports record. Iron and
steel exports jumped from $226, 000, 000
in the previous fiscall fear to $618,
000,000, and explosives from $41,000,
000 to $473,000,000. In 1914 the ex
plosives exports amounted to only $8,
000,000. Raw cotton exported during the fis
cal year waa valued at $370,000,000,
compared to $376,000,030 the year
previous; wheat and flour, $314,000,
000. compared to $428,000,000; meats,
$270,000,000, compared to $206,000,
000; copper manufactures, $170,000,
000 compared to $109,000,000; miner
al oils. $165,000,000, compared to
$134,000,000; brass and manufac
tures, $126,000,000, compared to $21,
000,000; automobiles and parts, $123,
000,000, compared to $68,000,000;
chemicals, $123,000,000, compared to
$46,000,000; cotton manufactures.
$112,000,000, compared to $72,000,-
ooo. ' -C. '
Principal imports were: Sugar,
$206,000,000, compared to $174,000,
000 in the fiscal year 1915; rubber end
it substitutes, $159,000,000, compared'
to $87,000,000; bides and skins, $157,
000,000, compared to $104,000,000;
raw wool, $145,000,000, compared to
$68,000,000; raw ailk. $122,000,000,
compared to $81,000,000; coffee,
$117,000,000, compared to $107,000,
000, and chemicals and drugs, $108,
000,000 compared to $84,000,000.
lafantie Paralysis Gen l!ay Ee
Jsolatcd, Kdical Ken Decaf? ;
xrw Ym-lrWh;f Health Commis
sioner Emerson declined Thursday to
discuss the report that . a New York
physician haa succeeded In isolating
the germ of infantile paralysis, great
importance was attacneu oy meaicai
nun a tha mafltinir nf nhvsiciafis to be
held at once, which will be devoted to
a discuussion of the disease which has
cost more than 250 lives in this city
since the epidemic began. "
Among the speakers win oe ur.
Simnn Flomer. of Rockefeller Found
ation, who is devoting his energies to
a study of infantile paralysis. It waa
semi-officislly admitted that scientists
have progressed so fsr that they are
testing a culture' in which they believe
they will find traces of too germ and
ultimately isolate it
Thore was a feelintr of optimism in
the health department not only be
cause there were fewer cases reported,
but because all agencies combating the
epidemic are in complete cO-operation.
"'' Gocitais timi to Co.
w,ki'niFtnn TV C -President Wil
son Thursday agreed to accept the res
ignation of Major uenerai uoetnais as
of tha Panama canal at an
early date, to be fixed by: the general.
General Goetbals called at ' the White
House and again urged his desire to
Mno-n tha onvernorahio and retire
from the active list of the army, now
that his work of Winning tne canai naa
been finished. Colonel Chester Eard
inir. now enirineer of maintenance in
the canal xone, probably will be ap
pointed governor; - " .
m ii ' ii 11 . '
.Cost of Living Recedes.
Washington, D. C The cost of, liv-
iner. after rising steadily since 1907,
TMnt in 1911. took a downward trend
during 1915. A report by the bureau
of Labor, issued Thursday, , analyzing
retail prices of 29 articles of food,
shows that relative retail prices during
1915 averaged one point lower man in
iqii Maata. lard and earn averaged .'
hnmlfatl ner cent lower. Whi'a'po-'I
totoes were 22 per cent lower. Wheat,
flour, corn meal and granuiateq sugar
m hiirhar than in 1914. flour beni2
20 per cent and sugar 11 per cent.
Germans Hold Canadians. ,
Ottawa, Ont Canadian prisoners ;
in Germany were sentenced to a year ,
in jail by the Germans for -ref sarin to
make war munition, according t a
letter received here from Corpoxal
Daniel A. Simmons, formerly a priotai
sr in Germany and now transerred to
the internment camp in SHweHand.
Corporal Simmona writes that
Corporal Harry Hogarth is one cf
those who refused to make munitions
of war. t
.' 7
