v.
THE OWOSSO TIMES
PAGES l TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF. PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. JULY 21, 1916.
N0-B17
Probate Court !tes
-
Corunna, July 10 Several- minor
matters were disposed of in Probate
court Tuesday.
In the estate of Judge Hugh Mc
Curdy a petition was filed for the right
to eell real estate in this county for
distribution.
Laura Butcher, administratrix of the
estate of Robert Butcher, rendered her
final account and was discharged.
Fox-Carpenter.
The marriage of C. P. Fox and Mrs
Laura Carpenter was solemnized in
Corunna, Saturday, July 15, Rev. J.
Hartley Cansfield, pastor of the Owosso
First M. E. church, officiating. Mr.
Fox Is employed as chief car inspector
for the Grand Trunk at Durand. Mrs.
Fox formerly resided in Corunna. Fol
lowing a brief wedding trip tbey will
be at home to their friends at 416
Branch street, Durand.
Accused by Sister.
Albert Trombley of Shiawassee town
ship, was arrested Monday, charged
with assault and battery by Mrs. Jennie
Miller of the same township. He was
arraigned before Justice Robert Mc
Bride and the case was adjourned until
July 26th.
Mrs Miller is a sister of Trombley,
and in an argument over property it is
alleged, that the defendant struck her.
Trombley has secured the services of an
attorney and will fight the case.
Herrick-Clark
Friends and relatives have received
announcements of the marriage of Miss
Grace Herrick to Dr. C. M. Clark of
Detroit, which took place June 27, at
Hotel Statler in Buffalo, N. Y. After
a trip to Orskinny Falls, N. Y., tbey
will be at home to their friends after
August 1st at the Hotel Central in
Romulus, Mich.
Miss Herrick formerly resided in this
city and has many friends here who
extend congratulations.
Birthday Party.
About 30 relatives of Mrs. Wesley
Kurrle gathered at her home north of
Chesaning to help her celebrate her
45th birthday, Monday. A bountiful
basket dinner was served, after which
the guests motored to the Prairie Farm.
Tnose present were Mr. and Mrs. John
Frye of Detroit; Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Freeman. Miss Meridith; Mr. and Mrs.
Geo. Freeman, of Owosjo; Mr. and
Mrs. Win. Freeman and fmily,Mr.
aucl Mrs. Milton Freeman and son, Mr.
and Mrs. Wm. Linzey and daughter,
Richard Freeman and daughter. Sadie,
of New Havenr and Miss Hazelle Free
man of Henderson. A very good time
was had by all.
Death of Edwin Peake.
Edwin Peake, aged 63 years, died
Tuesday, at his farm southwest of
Owosso, after a seyeral weeks' illnes3.
Tne body was taken to his old home in
Corunna and the funeral held Thurs
day afternoon at 2 o'clock from the
home of his daughter, Mrs. John Wor
tell. East Oliver street, Corunna.
The deceased was born in England
and came to America in 1833. In the
year 1884 the family moved to Corunna
where he has since resided until a year
ago, when he moved to the farm south
west of Owosso. He leaves beside his
widow and one daughter, four grand
children. Interment was made in Pine
Tree cemetery.
Asks Cancellation of Contract.
Corunna, July 17. A bill to can
cel a land contract was filed in cir
cuit court Saturday afternoon by
Fannio Norton of Shiawasseetown
against Jacob Miller and wife, also
of that place, through Attorney A. L
Chandler.
The plaintiff, a rug r.nd carpet
weaver, claims to have saved enough
money from her earnings during a
period of several years to purchase a
houe and several lots in Shiawassee
town. She later entered Into a con
tract with Miller and his wife, where
by they were to occupy her property
and in return furnish her food and
clothing for the remainder of her
life. Upon her death, according to
the bill filed in court, the Miller fam
ily was to receive the property.
Now the plaintiff claims that tho
Millers did not live up to their agree
ment and she asks that the land con
tract be cancelled.
vJ. H. Collins of Corunna, who was
an alternate delegate to the Republican
National convention, has received an
invitation from Chairman Wilcox of
the Republican National committee, to
be prexent at the ceremonies in Carnegie
hall, New York City, July 31et, when
Cnas. E. Hughes will be officially noti
fied of his nomination for the presi
dency. Mr. Collins will be on his
vacation at Rochester, N. Y., and may
be able to be present at the gathering
and reception following.
OWOSSO SOCIETY
OF DETROIT
O. L Sprague Will Deliver Address
At First Annual Gathering.
Detroit, July 20 All Owosso is in
vited to the first meeting of the
Owosso society of Detroit a basket
picnic at Belle Isle Saturday after
noon and evening, July 29.
In inviting . Otto L. Sprague, an
Owosso business man and former
mayor, to represent his city at the
picnic as speaker of the day, the so
ciety expressed the desire that any
Owosso residents visiting in Detroit
on the day of the picnic, feel free to
attend the outing.
Final arrangements for the reunion
were made Tuesday evening at a sec
ond meeting in the offices of Harry
T. Clough, secretary of the Detroit
Real Estate board, 348 Penobscot
building. The date and place were
fixed finally by the 15 or more men
who attended.
E. L. Devereaux, W. D. Kilpatrick
and Dr. A. D. Glascock were chosen
vice-presidents. O. C. Seeley, W. D.
Kilpatrick and Thomas P. Phillips
were appointed the committee on
speakers. Other committees named
were:
Music Dr. Rudolph von Tick,
Frank E. Phillips, Dr. Glascock.
Grounds and park privileges
Alonzo Crane, E. L. Devereaux, W.
E. McKenzie.
Sports Clare G. R&cte, Iank E.
Phillips, Claude Alexander.
Amusements for children A. J.
Troy, E. C. Kline, Elmer Hebbert.
Badges Harry T. Clough.
The reception committee will con
sist of officers of the organization and
their ladies, while th program com
mittee will be made up of the chair
men of the other committees, with
W. D. Kilpatrick as chairman. A
basket dinner committee it to be ap
pointed later by Alonzo Crane, chair
man of the society.
Favorable replies have been re
ceived from many former Owosso
residents now living here to the cir
cular letters sent out by the society
following the organization meeting
a week ago. It is expected 200 to
300 will be present when the pro
gram gets under way at the island
about 2 p. m.
The sports committee already has
under consideration plans for many
events. Ono will include an exhibi
tion of the sport that helped to make
Owosso known nationally Indoor
baso ball. Two members of the old
West Side world's championship team
are in Detroit and probably will play.
They are Edward J. Byrnes and
Frank E. Phillips.
Former Owosso persons who at
tended Tuesday night's meeting in
cluded: Frank Stengel, Ed Ailing
ham, Thomas Yale, Ed. Henderson,
Clare G. Reule, W. D. Kilpatrick, Al
bert J. Troy.
State Wants the Money.
In the estate of (Jnstave Knop, de
ceased, the question ot whether the es
tate escheats to the state or not has
arisen. At the time the will was pro
bated no hairs to the estate appeared
and it was decided to turn tho estate
over to the state. However, a man
named Knop from Wyandotte, claims
to be a cousin of Gustave Knop and is
here to push his claim to the estate. He
has retained Attorney W. J. Parker to
look after his interests.
A representative of the attorney gen-
eral's office was in Corunna, Monday, ed on tho sick list Wednesday morn
and a hearing in the matter was held ' ins?. They were all suffering with re
before Judge Bush. The testimony of actions of the vaccines. By night,
two witnesses was taken and the case however, they were all greatly im-
was then adjourned until afternoon. 1 Prve!- 0 osf PPorlcd 6i? arc'
t Vi tt u . ft i j Geortre Speigel, John Quinn, George
In the estate of Hugh McCurdy, de-; ,. ,, , ,, ' . .
. .... , f . . t Holiekeck and Aithur Hc.rensky. A
ceased, a petition has been filed to allow inew rc(Tuit was adJe,, to tne com.
the administrator to sell some real es- Bailv menibershln rolls Wednesday.
tate. it is expected that this estate
will be closed up very soon.
Wants Quiet Title.
Corunna, July 10 Suit has been
commenced by Julia E. Spawn to quiet
title to a farm located in Woodhull '
township. Mrs. Spawn and Mrs. Kentare
sisters and the farm in question is a lhfl new order from
farm owned by their father, Edward the war departrncnt authorizing the
Bray, who died a short time ago. ! discharge of all enlisted men having
.Mrs. Spawn claims that Mrs. Kent 0ne on more relatives dependent up
aad her husband, moved to the farm in on them.
Mr. Bray's declining years and thet; Six applications endorsed by Owo,?
Mr. Kent worked the farm on shares. 1 so men, were presented to Captain
Mrs. Spawn says that during her sis- Parker, Monday. He forwarded them
thu farm -fca to Colonel Boucher with his approval
. . . . v -
ercised considerable influence over her
father and his business. Before bis
death it is said that Mrs. Kent got Mr. jngtnn whero they will be passed on
Bray to make out a deed to the land in an(i the releases granted,
her favor, which was giyen to W. H. "I cannot turn down any appllca
Hnnt of Lalngsburg. Ition which has the proper number of
In June of this year, Mrs. Kent se-' signers," Captain Parker said. "All
cured prHen8lon of this deed through 1 can (1 t0 approve them. Each
a writ of replevin on Mr. Hunt. Mrs. replication must be accompanied by
Spawn and the other belrs to ' the two certifica es J3r je liable
v . , , , , , parties, before It Is considered,
estate claim that this deed is void and Jhe entIre company la now lmmun-
they ask that the court Fet It aside Jzor! nRanst typhoid fever. The last
Attorney W. G. Cairns of Lausing is injection of the typhoid prophylaxis
representing the plaltiffa in the case. was given Monday. All have taken
LETTERS FROM CAMP
Camp Ferris, Grayling, July 20.;
The military censor is blamed for a
lot of things lately. It has become
the fashion to lay it on the censor
when negligent soldiers fail to write
to their wives, their mothers and ev
en their sweethearts. "Censor held
up my letter,' i9 the calm assertion;
"I tried to wire you and he wouldn't
let the message go through."
This is all bunk. The censor nev
er looks at a letter that anyone sends
other than himself. He does not scan
private messages sent out by the tel
egraph company unless . they are
brought to him for a ruling. Several
such messages, because they referred
to movements of troops, were hand
ed over by the telegraph operators,
who are under orders to keep troop
movements secrets.
In all such Instances, the messages
have been rewritten, cutting out the
announcement that the organization
to which the officer or man belonged
was going. But the information to
which relatives were entitled, that
the man himself was coming home,
or was well, or was going himself,
was left in.
There is no mail censorship what
soever. The wire censorship refers
purely and simply to specific state
ments concerning when and how
troops are to move, and nothing else.
In response to a wire from Capt.
Parker, Private Bert Hoover report
ed In camp Tuesday afternoon and
will be mustered in. Harry Titcomb,
who served three years in the Naval
Reserve at Detroit, and who recently
came to Owosso to live with his aunt,
Mrs. Nellie Green, Cass street, ex
pressed a desire to Join Company H,
of the 33rd.
Major Phillips directed him to pre
sent himself to Dr. A. M. Hume for
physical examination. He received a
wire Monday afternoon from the
Owosso officer, informing him that if
he passed this test he would be mus
tered into the Owosso company or
some other. So far nothing has been
heard from him.
Camp Ferris, Grayling, July 20.
Six members of Company H, 33d Inf.
Owosso, who attempted to get trans
ferred Into Troop B, cavalry, of De
troit, are now doing extra police du
ty, according to Captain Parker. How
long this will continue, he failed to
state.
Captain Parker announced that
Corporal John McDonald, ice cream
manufacturer of Owosso, has made
application for release upon the
grounds that he ha3 relatives de
pendent upon him for support. Cap
tain Walter Stevens of the Supply
company had Intended to make Cor
poral McDonald seargeant of tlie
troop train. Captain Stevens has not
yet decided who will be appointed to
this position.
A splendid old cheese, the gift of
the Butternut creamery, has been re
ceived by the company. A letter
which accompanied the gift closed
with the phrase "yours for prepared
ness." Skirmishes and closed and extend
ed order comprised tho drill practice
for Wednesday. In the evening the
Owosso company appeared in a bat
talion parade which pasc-ed in review
before brigade headquarters follow
ing retreat.
Privates. II. Tompkins and George
Broom were cn guard Wednesday
nlghi.
Tho last injection of typhoid pro
phylaxis and tho smallpox vaccina
tion had their effect on members of
Company II. Four men were report
Harry Titcomb of Owosso, recently
loleased from tho naval reserve
corps at Detroit, enlisted.
Tack Coleman was given a 72-
lioiirs le.ive Wrdnesdnv tn visit. Tiifi
folks Ht owosso.
Camp Ferris, Grayling, July 18.
Six members of Co. H, 33rd Inf.,
The colonel in turn approved thenfl
. . . . I
i'.liu milieu lilt in urti iu uairmi
Kirk, who has sent them on to Wash-
the smallpox vaccination. The treat
ment .worked on approximately sev
enty-five per cent of the members.
y Robert Harris has been promoted
to sanitary sergeant. This is a new
position created by Regimental Sur
geon Major F. H. Randall. Major
Randall has instituted several inno
vations in the camp in the interests
of sanitation with the result that
Lieut.-Col. Chas. Wilcox, head of the
medical corps here, stated that the
33rd infantry has one of the cleanest
camps he has ever seen.
The duties of a sanitary sergeant
are to Investigate all cases of filth
and disease in his company and re
port to health officer. The result is
that practically all the filth and dis
ease have been discovered and reme
died. , Monday night, Leslie Austin and
Ralph Altenberg were guards for the
company. The night before, Clifton
Rudd and Bert Russell were on
watch.
Battalion drills comprised the
morning activities, Monday. The
Owosso boys are becoming unusually
proficient in the handling of arms as
well as in the march formations.
Every day sees vast Improvement al
so in their physical condition. The
Owosso delegation is one of the
healthiest in the entire brigade. It
is more than a week now since a case
of illness has been reported in this
company.
I Camp Ferris, Grayling, July 19
No more married men will be dis
charged from Co. H, Thirty-Third of
Owosso, according to Captain Parker.
"Since the men have been assured
that their families will be taken care
of," he said, "there are only a few
who want to leave. Some of the men
are making more money right now
than they were before the mobiliza
tion call, as their employers are still
paying them their former salaries
while they get their food, clothes and
medical treatment besides a salary
in the army. There are probably
three deserving cases where the men
will be released under the new or
der and that 13 all. I shall not ap
prove any more applications.
There have peen several promo
tions in the Owosso company. Byron
Thompson has been promoted to
mess sergeant; a position which
Liieutenant-Colonel Heckel stated is
one of tho most important in the
cenipany The mess sergeant is re
quired to draw all rations and it is
up to his judgment as to the amount
of food necessary for each me3s so
that there will be no waste and the
company can live on the rations al
lowed. Privates Henry Schmidt and Jack
Collman have been promoted to
corporals.
The Owosso company helped ex
tinguish the fire which threatened to
sweep over the game preserve Mon-j
'V viuic man ov unussu vuuilK
men fought the flames with picks,
axes, shovels, water and gunny sack3
Monday night guarding the ware-
House were Corporal Jack Wright,
Privates Frank Tejki, George Speig-!
el and Alfred Bel vet.
There was no drill Tuesday morn-'
ing. For the first time in' several!
days there was a number reported
n f tvnSniSaU8eW?S 1thlaBt1,?JIect!on
of typhoid prophy axis which was
given the day before and which re.
suited In a eeneral feeling nf l.nu 1
tude among members, monir those.
who felt the effect of the typhoid
treatment more than the reut were
Leo Houghtcling, George Halicheck,
Hmi Alfred "the "a
ton Fi linger. uuiy uy a generation wuicn nan met an
, Among" the visitors in camp Mon-'the Pertbnal sacrifices of a great con
day were: Mrs. Lighthill, mother of Act and did not hesitate to assume the
Sergeant Ralph Lighthill and Mrs. t. ; financial burdens as well. If preparu
J. Tubbs, mother of Private Harry , tloa meaus peace and eeuusity for Ainer-,
Tubbs. Miss Stebblns of Owosso ac- leans now living, as most ueotde bi-
companied Mrn. Tubbs to 'the camp
here.
On guard Tuesday night were Otto
Bronnnn .irwl fJeorp-o Hrrinm
Quartermr.ater Sergeant' August
Schneider left Tueslp.y for a two
days' furlough. He will visit at Owon-
so.
Death Caused by Heat.
Overcome by the Intense heat Mr:?.
Bertha Spiegel, aged twenty-nine millions. Under such au arrangement
years, wife of Oustaf Spiegel, expired national defense would not rest upon
at noon Thursday at her home, 109 i a class but upon the whole body of the
North Chipman street. The funeral people. There is no popular misunder
will be held Saturday afternoon from ; lauding of the fact that in time of war
tho home at 1:30 o'clock. The in-L. ..in
terment will take place In Oak Hill
cernetery.
Mrs. Spiegel, who had ppparently
been in good health became prostrat
ed by the heat only a very short time
before death occurred. Besides her
husband Mrs. Speigel is survived by
three children: Lulu, aged eleven;
Marguerite, aged nine and Minnie,
aged seren. Mrs. Spiegel was born
in Chesaning and was formerly
Miss Bertha Azeiton.
I. O. Curry leaves ou Tuesday next
for Portland, Oregon, as a representa
tive of the Michigan Grand Lodge
Knights of Pythias to attend the session
of the supreme lodge. He will visit a
nnmVr nf Hit turn -rtdii t rtaa rt Via
. v
webt nrone to Portland.
Mr. Fordney as Floor Leader In a
Big Flht. '
As ranking Republican member of
the ways and means committee of the
.house, Rep. Fordney led the fight
against the huge revenue raising meas
ure that the Democrats have formu
lated and rushed through He did not.
of course, succeed in defeating the bill,
but he obtained a number ot changes
and modifications against the strong
opposition of the Democratic leaders
responsible for it. and to this extent
was unexpectedly successful.
His chief tactical gain, however, was
the complete success of his strategy in
putting the leaders of the opposition in
a bole, where they had to resort to an
arbitrary ruling by Speaker Clark to
extract themselves and prevent a record
vote. Mr. Fordney. when the struggle
was neanng an end, moved that It be
recommitted with instructions to
"amend it so as to raise an equitab'e
portion of the required revenue from a
protective tariff sufficient to protect ad
equately American industry and Amer
ican labor, and to be so adjusted as to
prevent undue exactions by monopolies
or trusts, paying particular attention to
the conditions inevitable at the close of
the present European war, with a view
to insuring the industrial independence
of the United States."
Democratic Leader Kitchln made a
point of order against the motion and
was sustained by Speaker Clark. But
Mr. Fordney had brought into the fight
the historic policy of the Republican
partyprotection for our industries
and the Democratic one of tariff for
revenue only. In view of the enormous
deficit In the treasury the administra
tion has to face, Mr. Fordney did not
pretend that the entire revenue required
could justly be raised by higher duties
and cutting down the free list; he
moved only "to raise an equitable por
tion of the required revenue" required,
as the Democratic leaders tried to
maintain, by the necessities of pre
paredness, but also by the long standing
deficit caused by the Underwood act,
by the $43,000 000. rivers and harbors
pork bill, by $30,000 000 In wages to
government employees, by $20,000,000
for experimenting with a government
owned nitrate plant, by $11,000,000 for
a government owned munitions fac
tory, and similar extravagances and
chimerical schemes. The Democratic
leaders evidently did not desire to risk
a vote on the principle of equity ad
vanced by the Republican leader, or to
vote against their time honored prin
ciple of tariff for revenue, otherwise
they would not haye resorted to a tech
nical point of order to sidetrack it. Mr
Fordney was handsomely supported in
his tactics by the Michigan Republican
congressmen, who voted solidly with
him.
The Saginaw representative made a
strong fight also for the lowering of the
normal income tax basis. It is now
$3,000, and the now bill retains it at
that figure, although the percentage
laken is raised 100 per cent. In this he
has the support of high IWeratic
' i n t ,
"th' dty. no less than the New .,rk
World, chief organ of the administra
t)n which, in an editorial entitled-
"Patriotism That Pay b," declared:
The income tax levied at the close of
the Civil war carried an exemption of
? " ?,t""
lieve that it does, there are exeunt
I reasons why the necessary expeyfe
. should be widely distributed. Nothing
of thafc kind ,8 Providetl for b? tbe
Present bil1- which cannot possibly
reach more than 500.0C0 people What
I is needed is an exemption of nut more
than $1,000 or $1,50) where dependent
children are involved, which would
increase the number paying to many
the eeryices of every able-bodied citi
zen are at the disposal of the country.
It should be made equally plain In time
of peace that financial responsibility
even in a small way for measures re
garded as the best insurance againet
war has universal application. Patriot
ism that pays is just as Impreceive as
patriotism that fights.
The bill Is frankly Intended to make
business corporations and individuals
of large earning power and wealth pay
the expenses of the government, and as
they are mainly resident of the Eat
an 3 central West, the South and farther
Weet will largely escape the burden.
Thus the bill is 'sectionally a well as
individually discriminatory, and justi
fies the strong opposition'that Mr. Ford
ney marshaled against it. Moreover,
Mr. Fordney come within 15 votes of
defeating the outrageously discrimin
atory tax on copper ore, which hits
Michigan hard
Altogether Mr. Fordney'a Eighth dis
trict constituents have every reason to
congratulate their representative npon
the showing he made In his first big
fight as floor leader of his party. Sag
inaw Courier-Herald.
BaileyMcMahon
A pretty wedding was solemnize 1
Wednesday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock
at the home of Mr. and Mrs U. W.
Bailey, 1232 North Shiawassee street,
when their daughter, Miss Sylva Elsie
Bailey, was united in marriage to
Harold D. McMahon. At the appointed
hour for tin ceremony, the Lohengrin
wedding march was played. Rev J.
O. York of Lafayette, Ind., former
pastor of the Baptist church of this
city, officiated. The bride's cousin,
little Beth Bailey, cf Ovid, dressed
in a pretty white frock, assisted as
ring bearer. Tbe bride's own was of
pink voile trimmed with stiver. She
carried a bridal bouquet of white roses
tied with tulle. Miss Gertrude Moore
of Jackson terved as bridesmaid. Har
old Bailey, brother of the bride, was
best man.
Following the ceremony, a four
course luncheon was served to fifty
invited guests by Misses Ruth Coakea
of Bennington, Mary Elian Brooks
and Fern Wallace of Burton, Mr?.,
Ray Bailey of this city, and Misses
Bertha HayeS, Cecil Hall, Leona
Bailey, Amy Gaylord and Rose Thrift.
The Bailey home was handsomely
decorated throughout with sweat peas
and roses. Pink was the decorative
color scheme.
Mr. and Mrs.' McMahon are well
and favorably known smong a wide
circle of friends In this city. The lat
ter graduated from the local high
school with the class of 1014 and the
following year taught school in Venice.
During tbe past school year she in
structed in Burton. The groom had
made bis home in this city practically
all his life nntil three months ago when
he went to Detroit to accept a position .
with the Chalmers Motor works
Mr. and Mrs. McMahon, who have
the hearty congratulations of their
many friends here, weut to their home
in Detroit Wednesday evening.
Among the guests were: Mrs. Emma
Remington of Flint, Warren McMahon
and family and George Beard and
daughter, Miss Gladys, of Morrice, and
Rev. A. M. Bailey and family of Ovid.
m m
Death of Samuel K. Gardner.
Samuel K. Gardner, aged seventy
three years, died Thursday morning
at 4:30 o'clock at his home, 426
Clinton street, after an Illness of six
weeks following an operation from
which on account of his advanced
age he never rallied. He was a man
of kindly disposition and was belov
ed by all with whom ho came in con
tact and leaves a host of friends to
mourn hia loss.
Mr. Gardner was born December
18, 18 13 at Providence, R. I., In the
house which was built by Joseph Wil
liams, i-;on of Roger Williams, found
er of Rhode Island. Tho Roger Wil
liam's park In Providence today, Is a
part of what was once the Gardner
estate. Mr. Gardner was married to
Miss Nellie A. Ellsmore, December 13
1NG; at Pittsfort, X. Y., and came to
Shiawassee county tho following Oc
tober and located on a farm two
miles south of this city. Later he
removed to this city where he built
r.everal houses. As a young man he
followed the trade of silversmith but
Inter took up decorating, a trade
which hj followed as long as he
worked. At Lincoln's c;'ll for volun
teers he cilloted with tho Ninth R. I.
Infantry, Co. E, being mustered from
service at the close of the war.
A widow and two children, Ray
r.nd Miss Myrtle Gardner, of this city,
survive. The tuneral will be held
from tho homo Friday afternoon at
2 o'clock. Rev. H. Cansfield, pastor
of the First M. E. church will officiate
The funeral will be held under the
auspices of Quackenbush Post, O. A.
R. The Interment will take place in
Oak Hill cemetery.
Gov. Ferris Out of Race.
Gov. Ferris has notified the Demo
cratic powers that he will not accept a
re-nomination. Tbe deceielon was an
nounced this morning after a series of
interviews dnflng tbe week in which
attempts were made to induce him to
hfcome a candidate for a thirl term.
Senator Murtha of Detroit, and W. O.
Comstock of A'pena, are mentioned for
the position.
Washington dispatches state that the
' committee on public building and
' grouuds have recommended an appro
! priatlon of 155 000 for a post oflice build
ing at St. Johns and $5,000 for a site in
Alma. Congressman Fordney bad bllh
. pending for appropriations for boib;
cities.
