fBI
I Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 19; 1916 , No. 10 V
I What Should Be
I A WRITER in an Eastern great journal tries
to explain the reason the states south
of the United States mistrust our country. They
think that natural land hunger will compel
our Republic to eventually encroach upon and pos
H slbjy absorb them.
W A few people in those states have been talk-
K ing that way ever since our war with Mexico,
three score and ten .years ago. , But if they
M were rounded up and counted, they would be a
I pitiable few and most of them would be found
m to be of that contingent of loafers who intend to
fl live on the labor of their poor countrymen, by
keeping their countries going from one revolu-
tion to another.
When our country redeemed Cuba, could a
vote of all the decent people there have been
fl obtained, the majority favoring the annexation
fl of the Island as a sovereign state of our Union,
fl -would have been overwhelming. When our coun
fl try lowered her flag there and sailed away, it
fl should have been notice enough to all the states
jfl south of us, to all the world, indeed, that we
B coveted nothing, of the outside world but its
fl friendship.
fl There is another trouble the men to the
fl south of us are mostly all liars and naturally
B. judge other people by themselves.
fl But what our country did in guba should
B have been an object lesson that the most ignor-
fl ant depraved could have understood.
B But there is a duty upon our government
fl which is so plain that it is a wonder that it
fl was not impressed upon our so-called statesmen
fl long ago. We have received so many immi-
fl grants from the old, world during the past twenty-
fl five years that they have taxed our assimilative
fl power beyond its strength.
fl We see that now in the disposition to in-
B augurate strikes, to favor incendiary changes in
fl our government, in the disposition to eat un-
B earned bread, in everything that blatherskites
K can invent and call upon the rabble to support.
fl It is the dregs of this foreign, unassimilated
S element that supplies the backing for the schemes
fl of ' such scoundrels as Haywood and the other
Jfl knaves who would destroy our government for
B the plunder they might be able to loot from the
B To stand off this element, that has been grow
B ing ever since the days of Her Most, we should
B have been cultivating the most intimate and
B friendly commercial relations with the south
B American states, loaning them money, helping
B them build roads and seeking to win their con
B fidence in every honorable way, and at the same
B time diverting a part of the immigration that
B has been pouring in upon us to the cheap and
B fertile lands of those southern countries where
B tney could have been at the same time helping
B the countries they settled in and making for them
B selves homes.
B The need of that will soon be more urgent
B than ever. We have received but few immigrants
B in the past two years less than 200,000, but the
jfl war in Europe must stop in the near future, and
B then what will the millions of ruined men there
fl do? They will turn Instinctively to the United
BBflBBBBBHBBBBBBIIHBBfll
States. Then what will happen here when this
horde comes, into direct competition with our own
laborers, who even now are not too well " sat
isfied with their condition?
There should have been a line of great Amerr
ican steamers plying between New York and
. Pernambuco, Bahia, 3tio, Santos, Montevideo and
Buenos Aires for years past. Behind all those
ports there are plenty of cheap, rich lands, which
the governments of those countries would be
glad to have cultivated and all those govern
ments are liberal and anxious for the industrial
races of the world to cpme and help them build
up their countries. To turn the tide that way,
would be the greatest possible benefit to our
own country. The situation is so plain that wo
cannot see why our government did not long ago
see it and begin the work to make it effective.
Why Strikers?
THEY are perfectly natural and come from
natural causes. A hundred years ago the
manufacturer owned his own factory. He mingled
with his employees every day, was solicitious
for them and their families, but worked them
twelve or fifteen hours a day. But they looked
upon him as a little providence from whom
they obtained the money on which to live, and
there was mutual respect and friendship.
Now, if anywhere it looks as though a great
commercial entertrise would pay, half a dozen cap
italists make up the needed capital to start
with.
Some gentleman whose chiefest interest is to
please his. employers, is put in charge. He has
no special concern or human interest in the
employees. With him men are like other pieces
of machinery which run for a while and then
wear out. Ho invites no confidence with them,
seldom knows aught of them personally or of their
personal affairs. He is too busy, his account
ability is simply to the other employees who
are above him the owners are a far-off, intang
ible power impossible to approach. After the
eight hours are worked the employees are not
very tired and stroll down town, there they hear
someone in a public hall talking, and they stroll
in and listen. He is telling of the woes of the
poor under the iron bands of masters, and
winds up with a proposition to the effect that
to call this land a land of Liberty is a falsehood,'
that it really is but a land of masters and slaves.
They go again the next night and hear ex
plained that all things come of labor, but in. this
land the master draws all the rewards, the labor
ing man only the blanks.
They cannot see that the speaker is a blather
skite, that if his hands were thoroughly washed,
they would show that he had never performed
an honest day's work in his life, and after a
while they become dissatisfied and begin to
grumble, they belong to a union, and the offic
ers of the union want to be popular with the lay
members.
They begin to agitate some change which the
union should demand. They know nothing of
the cares and responsibilities of the owners, no
more than the owners do of the wants of their
BiHKIBBBBHIBHHBiSI
employees, and so, all heart being eliminated, . fl
they grow to hate the owners, the owners begin Sl
to wish that they could exchange their employees B
for machinery. The next thing is a strike. It ,
all comes because of that heart to heart aliena- B
tion between employer and employee. fl
Democratic Economy jH
A LITTLE short dispatch t.le other morning M
stated that the congressional appropriations H
thus far aggregateu $1,700,000,000. That is a re- IB
minder that one of the very funniest things that IH
has ever been produced in this careless old coun- B
try of ours Is the plank in every Democratic plat- M
form, state or national, which denounces the ex- jB
travagance of the opposition and calls upon the H
people to support the party of strict business H
economy in the administration of public affairs. iB
That is one of the oldest tricks of the Democratic 'fl
party. More than two score years ago there was 'B
a Republican administration of affairs in the B
great state of New York. It left its books all B
balanced and a clean sheet for the Democrats who jH
succeeded It. The incoming governor was Sam- B
uel J. Tilden. He and his party ran the govern- B
ment for a term, and then asked the people to H
keep the party of economy in power. But the H
people in the Empire state are never sure how 'fl
an election is going, for they are never sure which B
way Tammany Hall is going to vote. A Republi- " fl
can administration came in and then the books V H
of the outgoing crowd were examined. They es- H
tablished in a day that the secret of Mr. Tllden's B
economy was that nothing Jiad been paid except B
what the law absolutely commanded. It was be- fl
hind on many salaries; on appropriations to B
public institutions; on all contracts; on what was , B
due to public works every possible thing that M
could be staved off. B
The whole expenditures for which tho Demo- B
crats had made the state liable for exceeded those M
of their predecessors. It required its successors 1
to pay its debts and still Mr. Tilden ran for presi- H
dent and the Democratic slogan that year was H
"Tilden and Reform." H
The burden of the campaign cry when Mr. H
Cleveland was candidate the first tiniQ, was, on H
the part of the Democrats, the frauds, stealings ,fl
and extravagances of the Republicans who had H
been so long in power. The Democrats won and, 'H
began to gather in Washington. H
Old Zack Chandler was in the treasury depart- jB
ment. He met a company of the Democrats just H
before the inauguration, and said to them: "So
soon as possible, please Bend on your invest!- B
gating commitees. Try and have some one on fl
each committee who can read and write and add H
and subtract, not as a necessity, but merely to fl
expedite business." fl
All that generation of Democrats called old fl
Zack a bulldozer and brute, but they found no fl
mistakes, no frauds, no stealings. H
We all recall the Democratic platform of four fl
years ago. It was strong on the economy that fl
was to be if the party won. It did win. It has fl
seven months yet to serve, but the appropriations
for this congress for twenty months foot up fl
$1,700,000,000. fl
