v.
The Intelligent, common aense
worktagmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with picture or a dream.—Gom
pen.
Vol. 23, No. 54.
"Xthli
».
Unskilled c- Sta\
A
Work-
/,. M*C
ers Forced to
a
Demands.
THREATS USED ON
AMERICAN EMPLOYES
Foreigners Unable to Speak Eng­
lish Unable to Understand
Meaning of Petitions.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. —Evi­
dence that some of the big railroads
I now defying the brotherhoods in the
latter's demand for the eight-hour day
are forcing their unskilled and their
unorganized employes to "petition"
President Wilson to intervene and
save the day for the companies has
reached the office of Socialist Repre­
sentative Meyer London.
It appears that the Rock Island
lines have begun collecting these "pe­
titions" from Mexican section hands
•who "understand no word of English
and from all other employes outside
tfhe train crews. The implied threat
of punishment for refusal to sign this
appeal "has .beeiri effective. Within a
day or twof if the scheme is consum­
mated, the white house and congress
will begin to hear of this "petition"
from the employes of the railrods
who are employed on the trains.
Here is a letter from a Texas town
which reached the Socialist congress­
man. It is eloquent of the whole sit­
uation:
"Dear Sir:
"Today Roadmaster C. B. Lane of
Dalh&rt, Tex., Rock Island lines, was
sent over the -line, Tucumcari, N. M„
to Dal hart, getting signatures of all
employes of the company except train­
men and enginemen, to a petition to
congress and the president of the
United States asking them to inter­
vene in the 'Eight-Hour Day Propo­
sition.*
"The Mexican laborers are required
to sign this after it is explained in
English to them, which, of course,
they do not understand. Some of
these Mexicans believe yet that they
sigened something regarding the con­
troversy between the United States
and Mexico.
'We were all told that if we did
not sign the petition we might all lose
our jobs, including the officials of this
division.
"This letter is being written to you
in hopes that congress and the presi­
dent may le^rn of the. circumstances
under which the "names of^raflroacl1
ihen are signed to thiB petition. Every
man here that signed it did. not wish
to, but realized that they could do
nothing but comply with the request
in the form of a threat, or maybe lose
their job. And if every town on the
line was approached like the railroad
boys, of this one were, no doubt there
is a false impression created by these
finished, petitions.
"These petitions are to be in within
forty-eight hours, and no doubt
quick action will be brought to bear
on both congress and the president
"Do what" you can for. our inter­
ests."
DEMAND EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 17.—Sev­
eral thousand culinary workers, bar­
tenders, bakers and musicians are
unemployed as the result of a strike
•by culinary workers to enforce an
eight-hour demand and because of a
lock-out by the Restaurant Men's as­
sociation, which has declared for the
non-union shop. The workers charge
the so-called "law and order" com­
mittee of the chamber of commerce
with being responsible for present
conditions, because of interference in
mediation proceedings.
a
STREET CAR MEN RAISE WAGES.
DUBUQUE, Iowa, Aug. 17.—The
$ew wage scale of Street Car Men's
union took effect last week. For the
first six months wages are raised
from' 17 to 20 cents an hour second
six months, 20 to 21 cents second
year, 22 to 23 third year, 24 to 25
fourth year, 25 to 26 fifth year and
thereafter, 25 to 27. About 60 per
cent of the 100 employes are within
the five-year section of the agree­
ment, which means an immediate in­
crease of 2 cents an hour.
The state department of labor
under Commissioner W. F. Honk, has
just completed the report of special
investigators Don. D. Lescohier and
Martin Cole, on the strike of iron
miners on the. Mesabe range.
The report is without color and
fi:HS responsibility for the strike
ai^pits causes where it properly be-
The judgment of the investi-
l||rs, because of their exact fairness,
'JP^d
be
accepted by all reasonable
people. Their report clears the at-*
mosphere arid gives the people infor­
mation that has been withheld by the
daily papers. It is follows:
,"The strike started on June 2 at the
St. James mine at Aurora. The St.
Jtzries was opened some years ago and
then laid idle until last spring, when
work was resumed. The miners were
put to work on the contract system,
as in all underground mines on the
Mesaba
range, and at piece prices ap­
proximately equal to those 'In operat­
ing mines in the neighborhood. When
the month' had -elapsed it Was found
that the work was proceeding more
slowly than in other mines and the
men had not been making decent
wages.-: jThey compttfned to the com­
pany. and were given additional sums
increase their average daily wages
rpxTT^
JL11
fflDfT TO BUY
New York Traction Head Spends
Vast Sums to Prejudice
Opinion.
DECLARES UNION AN
ALIEN ORGNIZATION
Dante Barton Says Fight In­
volves Right of Workers to
Organize.
(From Committee on Industrial Rela­
tions. Southern Bldg., Washing­
ton.—By Dante Barton.)
WAS TNGTON,
Aug. 17.—With the
street railway workers of New York
trying to exercise their legal right to
organize, Theodore P. Shonts, presi­
dent of the New York Railway com­
pany, is spending hundreds of thou­
sands of dollars of the nickle-payers*
money in buying page advertisement
in the New York newspapers to mis­
inform and consequently to prejudice
the public against the men, and to at­
tempt to bribe the newspapers against
fairness to the street railway workers.
Denounced by Unions.
Leaders of the street railway union
and executives of the railroad bro­
therhoods who are now assembled in
New York, denounce as astounding
effontery the statement of this cor­
poration's president, Mr. Shonts, that
the union is an "alien organization."
These leaders in the labor movement
say that it is sumpreme nerve coming
from a man and a corporation who
have been notorious for importing to
New York and employing subway
workers and others who are new to
the New York situation, and who can­
not even speak the languages that the
union organizers and workers speak.
The Amalgamated Association of
Street and Electric Railway Employes
is a national institution affiliated with
the American Federation of Labor.
W. D. Mahon, its president, points out
that wherever it has unionized any
American city's street railway system,
it has vastly improved the service,
raised the wages of the men em­
ployed, and made the American
standard of living more nearly what
it ought to be. This union, like other
unions of the organized labor move­
ment, -lias been. a. .great saving and
Americanizing-force to the real aliens
whom corporations like that of which
Shonts is president, exploit and starve
and overwork.
Involves Right to Organize.
In a report to the committee of in­
dustrial relations, Dante Barton, who,
with George P. West of the staff of
the committee, investigated the causes
of the strike, says that it is a fight for
the right to organize and the right
to recognition of organization. It
grows out of the usual background of
low wages, long and broken hours of
labor and the arbitrary discharge,
which are the conditions always im­
posed upon workers who are not or­
ganized into effective unions. The
great effort of the union and the
strikers is to organize all the street
railway transportation employes into
an effective union. Instead of mak­
ing their appeal chiefly to the. sym­
pathies and the humanity of the pub­
lic, they are making a straight out
business appeal to the public to sup­
port them in their rights to self-re­
specting, self-controlling organization.
In the light of this fact the statement
of Theodore B. Shonts, in his news­
paper ca.npaign, that "we are not
fighting labor unions or the principle
of organization" is characterized by
all the labor leaders as the old cheap
and flat falsehood.
Mr. Shonts' corporation is doing
everything legal and illegal within its
power to prevent the organization of
its employes into effective unions. It
is employing guards. .It is making it
necessary for union organizers to go
together in squads of eight or ten in
order to protect one another from
being beatdn up. It is using its politi-
.Continued on Pate %.
to. between $2.50 and $.3 per day. But
friction between the men and the com­
pany over the contract prices con­
tinued and on June
2
the miners, with­
out previous notice to the company,
left their work and struck.
"The strike spread to the Miller
mine in Aurora the same day and-then
swept westward over the range, mine
after mine going out. Many of the.
people with whom we talked believe1
the strike was a spontaneous outburst
against the contract system, and that
the I. W. W. organization came, in only
after, the strike had started. But we
reached a different conclusion. We
were informed by a credible authority
that one of the national organizers
had told him that the I. W. W.'s had
a group of local I. W. -W. members
planted in each mine as early as Feb­
ruary, but had no locals on the range.
"It is our conclusion that there was
a dissatisfaction with the contract
system among some of the miners, that
the I. W. W. men in some of the mines
fanned that dissatisfaction into action,
and that the successive walking out
of the miners in mine after mine as
the strike spread gradually westward,
was .due to the leadership of these
local groups of I. W. W. members or
sympathizers. Industrial causes un­
derlaid^ the strike, but probably would
not have caused a strike of such pro­
portions except for I. W. W. activity.
The strikers and I. W. W. leaders did
not do any organizing 'before the strike
was Called, but we are inclined to be
\lieve that they did do a good deal of
planning for a strike and for organiza­
tion.
"There has been a good deal of criti­
cism of the miners because they did
not present their demands to the com
Panics until after they had cone on a
strike. This criticism Is unfair. Un­
organized workmen, however dissatis­
Chester A. Congdon of this city last week took undue
advantage of an invitation extended him by the mem­
bers of the Minnesota State Bar association,. Instead
of giving the members something new* something really
worth while, he proceeded to outline his objections to
everything that was, is, and shall forever be.
We do not believe Mr. Congdon has a regular title*
for his speech. But we know of no. more appropriate
one than "A Philosophy of Misery," and we Suggest this
to Mr. Congdon for what it may be worth.
He roasted the administration politicians who had
no courage Frank P. Walsh, and ended up with a de­
nunciation of the I. W. W.
Yes, he roasted the officeholders who were subservient
to the voters. He proclaimed against those public offi­
cials who voted solely on the grounds of expediency.
It was Chester Ad gate Congdon, he who was a member
of the Minnesota legislature for two terms. He who
voted against the county option bill in both sessions,
and after he got out of the legislature, roasted h—
out of the breweries. The same Mr. Congdon, Mr. C. A.
Congdon who voted against county option because it
was "expedient" to do so in order to save this section
of the state from the tonnage tax!
He took a whack at the Australian labor government.
He lambasted some of the Socialist labor members over
there because they wanted to abolish the Australian
senate.
But Mr. Congdon forgot that during the last session
California Industrial Commission
Works With Employer and
Employe.
SACRAMENTO, Cal., Aug. 17.
The state industrial accident com­
mission, of which Will J. French,
Typographical union, is a member, is
conducting an educational campaign
for the purpose of lessening the num­
ber of accidents and fatalities in in­
dustry.
Many of-the Notices' ar6~jr|hted qn
stout liiien and an appeal is made to
both employer and employe to work
for the common end. The literature
is profusely illustrated" to show the
wrong way and the right way of
doing things and the results of care^
lessnes. are vividly pictured. It is
shown that there were 624 accidents
in 1914 because of piling construction
material unsafely. Lumber with pro­
truding nails caused 1,001 accidents.
Unguarded floor openings in build­
ings under construction, defective
ladders, flimsy constructed scaffolds,
careless handling of explosives and
other subjects are illustrated and
printed in a form, easily read.
The commission has issued special
orders that cover many industries
and callings. One of the features of
this campaign is the use made of
California's historic bear. The com­
mission has organized a Miner's Saf­
ety Bear club, with the slogan, "I am
a bear for safety," on an attractive
button. Admittance to the club is
free and through an endless chain
system "every good safety bear" is
supposed to enlist a recruit.
The commission is also working
with sub-committees of employes and
employers. It is the purpose of this
joint movement to awaken a state­
wide interest in the lessening of acci­
dents and to make prevention of
these occurrences a major question in
California industry.
MOVIE OPERATORS ADVANCE.
CINCINNATI, Aug. 17.—Moving
Picture Operators' union has secured
a three years' agreement with picture
house managers in this "city. Wages
are increased
fied, cannot present demands until
after there is organization. The min­
ing companies never permitted organ­
ization and therefore this phase of the
strike was Inevitable and unavoidable.
"The complaints Of .the men concen­
trate on two conditions—the hours of
labor and the contract system. They
allege that they have a nominal eight
hour day, but rarely an eight and one
half or nine hour day with pay for but
eight hours. At each mine is a wash
house or chahgehouse. where the
miners change their clothes before
going into the mines and after leaving
the mines. They demand that pay.
Shall be by the day rather than by
the piece and that pay shall begin
when they leave the washhouse to be­
gin their descent into the mines and
end when they get back to the wash
house. Their complaint on this score
is, of course, duplicated in many other
industries in which workmen complain
that they have to be on the employer's
premises 10 to 15 minutes 'before pay
begins and some time after pay stops.
This aHrays looks to-the workman
to be an injustice, and to a certain
extent it is, but the.employer always
contends that this presence of the
workman is an essential to and- inci­
dent to the work in .question, that it
does not benefit the employer any, and
that he cannot be expected to pay for
a workman's time except when he is
producing .output. In the underground
mines of Minnesota., the miner must
descend to thfe level. on Which he is
working, and it is unquestionably true
that this consumes a considerable
amount of his time—say- from 10' to 20
minutes before and after his work.
On the other hand, probably no 'greater
g-njount of tlih* elapses on the average
»e^iW^f.n 'li* t1"1® he leaves his hom
SJUlu LV? actually begins to
work, than elapses in the case of men
of other occupations, whp, generally
pf
i.''
JOB SOCIAL JTJ8TI0E. ECONOMIC BBTOBM AND POLITICAL PBOGRESS.
DTJLUTH AND SUPERIOR, AtftSUST 19,1916.
IS PRETTY GOOD SCOLD
ITS WEAKNESS OF ALL RICH MEN
Attempt to Split Workers Organ­
isations In Washington Is
Defeated.
TACOMA, Wash., Aug. 17.—At a
meeting of the exectnive committee
of the Washington state federation of
labor it was decided to .only favor
such' initiative measures that "par­
ticularly affect the OBgariizations rep­
resented in this coalition and which
are well understood by our mem­
bers."
The coalltionrefcirfcw' to is the
unity of farmers "iij^ttaae 'unionists,
working through a joint legislative
committee, to secure remedial legls
lative relief through the initiative
and referendum. This CQalition has
ben defeated in its recent effort to
place four measures on the ballot,
mainly because of a law passed by
the last legislature which compels
farmers to register before they can
sign a petition. This handicap is fur­
ther increased by a state supreme
court ruling that the preamble of
proposed bills, which serve explana­
tory purposes, shall not be permitted.
Despite these obstacles the trade
unionists are not discouraged and the
executive committee of the state fed­
eration of labor is determined that
the hopes of labor's opponents that
the industrial workers and the farm­
ers will split must not be realized.
On this subject the executive com­
mittee says:
"Nor has any movement in 20
years got under the hides of the ex­
ploiting classes in this state as has
the legislative coalition of farmers
and trade unionists sailing under the
banner of the joint legislative com­
mittee. Every member of that com­
mittee is as cordially hated by the
powers that prey as were the snakes
of Erin's isle by the good St. Pat­
rick."
MACHINISTS 'STRIKE ENDS.
ALLENTOWN, Pa., Aug. 17.—Ma­
chinists employed by the International
Motor company have settled their
strike, which was caused by the dis­
charge of s}x active members of the
union. The settlement involves the
establishment of the eight-hour day
in the near uture.
STATE LABOR DEPARTMENT MAKES A RATIONAL REPORT ON HE MINE STRIKE
take from 30 minutes to an hour to
get to and from their work. We are
not deeply..impressed' with this griev­
ance of the miners.
"Their other grievance is the con­
tract system, which is simply a piece
work system. But piece work in a
factory is one thing and piece Work
in a mine is another. In a factory a
piece worker is employed with mate­
rials, appliances and machinery which
always remains the same. Each unit
of work that he turns out requires the
same expenditure of energy, time and
skill as each other' Unit Of output.
His machinery runs at constant speed
and with a constant working'efficiency.
his tools and materials are practically
identical one day and another.
"But in a mine the workman is
working in materials of a constantly*"
changing quality. No two workmen's
jobs are exactly identical and no two
days' work is performed under identi­
cal conditions. A miner starts to work
in a certain drift and if the ore is hard
or the overburden hard to deal with
he may be able to cut away only one
half as much ore as he is able to mine
on another day when the ore is softer
or the ground easier to deal with. This
constant variation of the natural work­
ing conditioris, with the variation in
pay it causes between one shift and
another or one mirier and another, and
the continuous readjustment In piece
rates that it compels in order to bring
about a substantial equality of wages
between the various workmen. Is at
the' basis of the whole trouble over the
contract system.
Tip striking miners make the fol­
lowing complaints against the con­
tract1 system:
1—That the companies change the
contract' price (piece rates) without
notice £o. tjie men* and during a month,
a$.d that when payday comes a man
Qf the Minnesota legislature a bill was also introduced
asking for the abolition of the senate. And who intro­
duced that bill? Was it a Socialist labor member from
Australia?
jNot much. It was a member of the Republican party,
the party of Hughes, and of Taft, and of Root and of
Mr. Congdon. Mr. Congdon didn't mention that fact, and
we opine that this particular Republican member who
wanted to abolish the senate doesn't care much what
-Mr. Congdon said anyway and if the truth were known,
we hardly think the Australian labor government cares
a hang about it, either.
They should worry* to use the expression of the
Psalmist.
Frank Walsh also came in for his share o'f Congdon
ttis. Frank hasn't shown any symptoms of reforma­
tion since the speech by Mr. COfigdOn, however. We
doubt if Frank will change his political ideas when he
hears of that speech, either.
However, judging from Mr. Congdon's remarks we
are convinced that he has read the report of the Com­
mission on Industrial Relations. That helps some.
One good thing that report did: It compelled John D.
Rockefeller to make a trip to Colorado for the first time
$h eleven years. And another thing that we should
^ose sight of. If Frank P. Walsh was instrumental
in compelling Mr. Congdon, and others similarly situ­
ated, to read literature such as the report of the com­
mission, then its work was not entirely in vain.
The "Philosophy of Misery!" Yes, that's it.
Several Hundred Men Ask For
Membership Where Murders
Were Committed.
TRINDAD, Col., Aug. 18.—On the
site of the L«udlow tent colony, where
a half-score of men, women and chil­
dren were murdered by coal company
guards and militiamen in April,
1914, several hundred miners made
application for membership in, the
Mine Workers' union, after listening
to
addresses by well-known unionists.
The incident was a litting memor­
ial to those -who died in the light of
southern Colorado miners-for the
right to organize.
Notices of the meeting had been
posted throughout the various mine
openings. Outwardly the only '•ob­
jection was shown by the Victor
American Fuel company, which work­
ed its .employes on Sunday for the
first time in its history, thus preven­
ting them from attending the meet­
ing.
Most of the miners in attendance
are employed by the Colorado Fuel
and Iron company and these workers
declare that they will take John D.
Rockefeller, jr., at his word—that he
has no objection to them joining a
union.
The first break, against the Rocke­
feller "union" came when the miners
of Sopris and Piedmont organized and
applied to the United Mine Workers'
union for a charter. Similar action
was taken at Starkvill^ and now the
miners at Berwind, Tabasco and Toil
erburg meet at Ludlow. Miners'
union officials predict that witthin a
short time practically every miner in
Las Animas and Huerfano counties
will be enrolled. This means that af­
ter a year's trial the Rockefeller
"union" has failed in its alleged high
purposes and that while mine mana­
gers and superintendents have deliv­
ered pretty speeches to these workers
the latter fyLve noted that their wages
and working conditions rematn at a
lower standard than that set by the
United Mine Workers' union.
FREIGHT HANDLERS STRIKE.
DECATUR, 111., Aug. 17.—Unor­
ganized freight handlers employed by
the Wabash railroad struck to raise
wages from 16% to 20 Cents an hour.
The company is now trying to put a
bonus system into, effect. Under this
scheme a certain number of tons of
freight is handled before the mini­
mum is reached.
He may keep track of the work that he
has done and figure out what is com­
ing to him .at. th.e-contract rate, but
when he draws his check finds that the
rate was cut without notice to him.
2—The rate is cut when a miner
strikes "soft ore" and could make good
money, but is not increased when he
Secrease.
ets into "hard ore" and his earnings
3—That the companies do not fur­
nish the men with a detailed statement
showing the basis upon which their
gross, wage was calculated nor with a
stateinent of the tools, powder and
other "expenses"' with which they are
charged, or the price at Which the sup­
plies have been sold to them.
4—That the mine captains "play
favorites" and give their favorites the
soft ore, and those they do not like the
-hard ore, so that the man who works
easiest gets the best pay and the man
who works hardest gets the poorest
P^T1
'hat the way to get to be a
favorite is to bribe the. captain by
giving him money or presents, and that
a man can get a good drift only by
these methods.
6—That the captains exploit the men
by compelling them to buy tickets" for,
raffles or other activities in which the
captains have a financial Interest arid
from which they derive a profit, and
that if any jnan does not buy he is
marked for discharge or discrimina­
tion,
"Other minor charges were made but
without citation of specific cases illus­
trating the abuses complained of and
will therefore be disregarded.
"On Tuesday, Aug. 8, the miners pre­
sented a large number of affidavits
taken by their representatives before
notaries public in various towns, lh
which individual mifters swor# that
they hadv been the victims of these
various abuses. These afltldavits were
irtaii aloud ui our pr|»^ncf.,b^i&.i, fljy--
Wonderful Expansion of Trade
and Commerce Made Under
President Wilson.
BILLIONS ADDED TO
WAGES OF WORKERS
Record Shows That Wage Earners
Received Increase of Three
Billions Over Previous Year.
NEW YORK,—The second chapter
°f the Remocratie text book deals
with the wage problems of America,
and shows how the laboring man has
benefitted in many millions of dollars
during the Wilson administration.
"This second chapter is a description
of the Democratic doctrine that the
real prosperity of a nation is to be
measured first by the prosperity of its
workers.
From Labor Bureau Figures.
"The United States department
of labor report shows t,hat the aver­
age wage increase in the industries is
from 5 per cent to 20 per cent during
the past four years, and that from
1913 to 1916, during the Wilson ad­
ministration, wage earners in the
United States were paid $17,600,000,
000, against )14,320,000,00j paid in
wages during the four years of Mr.
Taft's term—from 1909 to 1912," says
the book.
"This record shows that during the
Wilson administration the wage earn­
ers of the country received in wages
over $3,000,000,000 more than they
did during the four years preceding
under the Republican administration.
"According to the data of the de­
partment of labor upon union wages
per hour as the basis of computation,'
the average union wage during the
years 1914 and 1915, under Demo­
cratic laws and administration, were
10 per cent higher than the average
for the six years—1907 to 1912, in­
clusive—under the Dingley and Payne
tariff laws arid Republican adminis­
tration.
Wages Up 10 Per .Cent.
"Taking as a basis a tabulation of
press announcements of wage in­
creases.for. 1916, made by the depart­
ment "of labor,' it is ^dnse'rVative to
place the 1916 wage-level at 10 per
cent higher than 1915 or 20 per cent
higher than the Republican level on
1907-1912.
"The census of 1910 (based on
1909 data) gave the number of
earners employed in manufacturing
industries only as 6,615,000, and the
wages paid, $3,427,000,000. It is es­
timated (on basis of preliminary re­
turns of 1914 census of manufactur­
ers) that in 1915 American manufac­
turers gave employment to 7,800,000
Wage earners at wages amounting to
$4,407,000,000 or an increase of
nearly $1,000,000,000 over 1910.
."It is conservatively estimated that
in 1916 American manufacturers em­
ploy 10 .per cent more wage earners
at 10 per cent higher average rate
of wages per annum than in 1915.
This would bring the 1916 volume of
wages paid in manufactures only up
to $5,360,000,000, or upwards of
$1,800,000,000 over the Republican
census record of 1910.
More Than 20,000,000 Earners.
"These figures are for wage earners
employed in manufacturing industries
only. The census of 1910 gave the
total number employed in manufac­
turing and mechanical industries as
10,658,000, in transportation, 2,637,
000, and in mines, 964,824, and in
agriculture, forestry and animal hus­
bandry (exclusive of. 6,000,000 farm­
ers and other employers) as 6,659,000
—making a total' industrial army of
wage.earners of over 20,000,000."
The far-reaching character of the
wage increases won by American
labor in 1916 is shown, it is stated, by
the following cases noted by the labor
Continued on Page X.
well Davles (federal investigator) and
we had opportunity to .examine them.
They were then turne&'*over to the
federal investigators for further in­
vestigation. If these affidavits are
substantiated, they will demonstrate
very serious abuses on the iron ranges
—abuses sufficient to -have justified a
strike.: But only the corroborative in-,
vestigation of the federal representa­
tives can demonstrate whether the
charges will hold or not.
"Personally, we are satisfied that the
further investigation will reveal that
all of the abuses, complained of have
existed.lo a certain:extent .Only an
examination of the -companies' book
will show whether or ,not the first two
charges are true-r-but we have seen
exactly the same thing occur In fac­
tories when the working men were un­
organized and their piece rates not
protected by trade agreements.
"The third statement of the miners
is admitted true, but the companies
state that it would require an exces­
sive amount of bookkeeping to give
each miner a detailed statement JThey
admit that the men ought to be fur­
nished such a statement, however, at
any time that they demand it.
•The fourth .and fifth charges are un­
questionably true with respect to cer­
tain mine' captains and certain mines.
Thfe evidence .presented by the miners'
affidavits can-leave no doubt but that
certain mine captains have profited by
forced bribes, 'either in the form of
money or goods, paid to them (1) to
enable a mirier to get a job, (2) to
enable- a miner to keep a job, (3) to
enable a miner to get soft ore. But
our I Investigations led us. to believe
that the conditibn is not char&cterls
ttce of mining conditions In general on
the ranges and obtains oply in particu­
lar mines The federal investigators
watt*t
ln
*com-
p|
The working class movement lb
be most effective most be conducted
tiieworkers tfunudTts in the in
of the workers, it will not
be dominated by die so-called in
tellectnals or butters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
New- Organization Is Formed.
With Membership of 111
Workers.
TO FORM THIRD BRANCH
OF LONGSHOREMENS UNION
Strikers In Superior Will Con­
tinue Lay-off Until Demands
Are Granted.
SUPERIOR, Aug. 14.—Enthusiastic
over their decision to come under-the
wing of the American Federation of
Labor,111 striking coal dock workers
last night were organized into a new
branch of the Longshoremen's union
at a mass meeting held in Finnish
hall.
With the knowledge that they were
to become organized after a week of
valiant fighting for their demands
from the coal companies in Superior,
the men refrained from cheering as
each took his turn in signing the
papers and paying 50 cents dues to
the chairman. A total of $55.50 was.
collected.
Charles Swanson, local organizer
for the federation, will mould the
workers into the third branch of th*
Longshoremen's union to be estab­
lished in Superior. Duluth already
has three branches.
W. B. Jones, vice president of the
Longshoremen's division of the fed­
eration, made his first address to the
strikers last night since he was
forced out of their assemblage by the
I. W. W.'s a week ago.
"Although I am a week late !n
speaking to you for the second time.
I am glad to be back even this late,"
Jones said. "If we had completed or­
ganization a week ago, I believe the
strike would be ended by now and.
you would be back at your work."
Insist Upon Demands.
Although organized into the Feder
ation of Labor, the strikers have still
determined to stay away from work,
until granted their demands. Mem­
bers of the Longshoremen's union
told the workers that efforts will be
made to hold a conference with dock*.'
superintendents so that they can be
approached in regard to a.settlement."
-^Members xyt tire strikers' commit*
tee, which 'fit negotiating with Swah
son in regard to organization, include
Michael Lawrence, L. Putkoutek,
John Anderson, Edward Christ, Vic-!
tor Rosseame, Timothy Riordan, 1
Frank Raslisig, Matt Syra and John
Vatrigure.
A decision to join the federation
was reached at a meeting when fully
three-fourths of the strikers voted in
favor with the rest remaining silent.
Several union men spoke at the'meet­
ing.
Mayor Konkel was present again
and spoke after the vote was taken.
He congratulated the men for de
ciding to become organized.
MEAT TRUST DEFEATED
NOW FAVORS PENSIONS
EAST ST. LOUIS, 111., Aug 18.—
After 5,000 employes of the Armour,
Morris and Swift packing plants, de­
feated these concerns, as the result of
a short strike, the Swift company,
thoroughly alarmed at the growth of
Unionism, announced a pension plan
that would be absolutely free to em­
ployes who are 60 years old and who
have been with the company for 25
years. As these workers are a rarity,
the company has secured valuable ad­
vertising at practically no cost.
The strike was precipitate** by the
discharge of a score of employes be­
cause of union activity. To check a
general suspension of work, the com­
panies agreed to reinstate the! victim­
ized workers and all strikers, to dis­
miss strikebreakers, that unionists
shall not be discriminated, against and
that all grievances shall be settled
through joint committees.
the. industrial issues that led up to
the strike. The miners further charge,
that since the strike broke out the
private mine guards have been allowed
excessive license -in goipig about^the
public streets carrying arms, in inter­
fering with strikers on the public
streets, and in entering strikers' homes
and'that the public police departments
have virtually been as much under the
control of the mining companies-as the
private guards.
"We are not entirely in' sympathy
with the belief that vigorous measures
were necesary to maintain peace and
safety in this strike. But we are en­
tirely satisfied that the mine guards
have exceeded'their legal rights and
duties and invaded the citizenship
rights of the strikers that such
violence as has occurred has been
more chargeable to the mine guards
and police than -to the strikers and
that the public police departments have
entirely exceeded the needs of the
situation, and have perpetrated serious
injustice upon the strikers.
'Numerous cases of arrest without
warrant, and unfair trials in the jus­
tice's courts were brought to our at­
tention. We will not go into these
cases in detail, as the federal men hive
promised a thorough Investigation of
them, but we are seriously impressed
that the mine guards should have been
compelled to remain on mine property
or disarm when they left It.
*EVery shootinsr affray that has Oc-*
curred on the ranges has Of
curbed on
public property. In no case have the
so-called riots occurred on. or even near
.company property.
"The parades of the miners have been
peaceful, the public police have had no
trouble in maintaining order, and If
the private mine guards bad. been, com­
pelled to remain on the compariy
(property we do not believe that tW*
Would ever have been any/ bloedfhet
1
