mBBAWWP
1
frff'-'.. V w . a-al sJ.a 1 SM-a 1 t a mm . -
I IHKC rgCPfW III 11 f t? cvm;cfvrv u inc rrynnuMf ii". ic viyni'nuui iiujy nww unuvuuicmg nam inc manCllOn Of int JUQIH9Ht
ofnocusty in it favor and should be adopted a a baU for wag cm. " raESIDCNT WILSON'S ULTIMATUM TO RAILROAD PRESIDENTS.
motto.
I "Circulation Hooka Open to At!."
FMAl
g mo IT I ON
PRICE ONE CENT.
Jf KDiTtON
j "Ctrcutmtio Book Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 1910.
10 PAGES
e. in w tMk w'Ui,
I
WILSON'S 8 -
GAINS ON SIX-MILE FRONT
CLAIMED BY THE BRITISH
REPULSED
1
Haig Says His Troops Have Captured
Western Outskirts of Guillemont,
and Germans Admit Shortening
of Line in That Sector.
LONDON, Aug. 19. British troops hurled back the German line
north of the SomnK last night in one of the greatest gains made by the
allies since the opening smash of the great offensive.
The Germans were thrown back on practically every sector of a
six mile front, exti'ii.ling from a point south of Thiepval to the point
where the British lin link up with the French near Guillemont. The
greatest British gain was scored from the Foreaux wood (called High
wood by the British) eastward to the junction point with the French.
Following l the text of to-day's'
Hrltlsh Wnr Offlcc lepoit:
"Our success reported InBt night
hH been maintained and extend
ed. Durln1, the nlcht the enemy
delivered several very determined
counter-attacks iigalnst the posi
tions we had captured. Kxcept on
our extreme. rlj;ht. wheie the en
emy regained a Httlc ground,
these counter-attacks everywhere
were repulsed.
"I'rom Illirh wood to the point
whero we. loin up with 'ho French
wo ndv.-ttVcd our lino over a
front nm of more than two miles
for a distance varying between
sou and ii0 yards. Wo now hold
thn western outskirts of Clulllc
mont ami a linn thencn north
ward to midway l.ttween IJelvllle
wood and Clnchy, and also thu
orchaids north of I.omkih'WiI.
"Hctween HIkIi 'oo and tho
Albert-Hapnumn Itoad wo cap
tured Home hundreds of yards of
an enemy trench. Kant and south
east of .Mnuqtict farm wo ad
vanced our lino by hoiiio 300
yards. Hctween Ovlllers and
Thiepval wo pushed forwaid on a
fiont of over half u mile. Ah a
result of then operatlonH several
hundred prisoners have been
taken by ns."
Ulsmt slxteon-lnch Kilns, outranging
the, German 42 centimeters, havo
helped the alllfB In their galas on both
banks of tho Homme.
Despatches from tho French front
to-day revealed for the it rat tltno the
presence of tlicpc. new artillery mon
sters. Capable of throwing every two
minute u shell weighing nearly a ton,
thosti cannon are blowing great boles
In the German wotks and systemat
ically levelling fortified villages.
GERMANS REPULSE
STUPENDOUS ATTACK,
IS RERUN'S CLAIM
BKK1.1N. AP- 19 vi i London).
Tho War Olllo leporl of to-day nays
tho Germans victoriously resisted the
stupendous Anr.lo-l'rt ncli attack on
tho Hoinmo fiont which was mndc
yesterday, but tli.it lint ween (lullle
mont and Miimepa Hie Hermans
shortened their line somewhat.
Following Is the tint of to-day's
German W'a.' Oflic iviit:
"Our brave troops yesterday
victoriously icd.Uil with self-sue-rlflclng
tenacity a otupeniloiis of
fort on the part of our combined
onemles. At about the snnui time
In tlio afternoon, after artillery
preparations which Increased to
the utmost violence, the. Hrltlsh
(Continued on Second PftgeJ
PUTS STRIKE UP TO RAILROADS
MM
HELD AS SMUGGLER
AFTER SEIZURE OF
Prisoner Believed a Principal
in Plot Gems in Slock
ing and Cigar Boxes.
A man who says his namo is HnnB
IMward Thompson, but refuses to
give any other Information nbout
himself, was arraigned this afternoon
before United States Commissioner
Houghton on tho charge of being ono
of the principals In a diamond Jew-
elry smuggling conspiracy. Ho was
held In $7,500 ball for examination.
According to a complaint mudo by
Customs Inspector Murphy, tho con
splrncy was formed instils city on
June 1, nnd In furtherance of tho
objects of It, Thompson soon after
went abroad. Hn returned on July
11 as a steerage passenger on the.
Hcandlnavlan line Helllg Olav.
As steerago passengers am not re
quired to niak'i out baggago deelara
liims, with the connlvantn of a mem
ber of tho slilpv crew, Murphy mys,
Thompson succeeded In thn courso of
a few days In getting ashoro his suit
case containing Jewelry estimated to
be worth about 2.",0on. All this had
been accomplished before the customs
authorities got an inkling of the al
leged plot from a Jewelry dealer, who
It Is claimed, bad been asked to pur
chaso tho contraband,
Alinllt Hin u!irnn ttmp ThrtmnaAn n..
cording to tho complaint, becoming'
suspicious 'Induced an acquaintance !
to check the suit case at tho Itnwllnp-
Green subway station. There It was
iiuniiy locateu ami waicueu ny in
spector Murphv. The latter claims
that when one of Thompson's ac
quaintances on Friday night called
for the suit cue, ho was followed by
customs men to Second Avenue and
Fiftieth Stret. Thompson appeared
later' and was ariesteU on the smug
gllnr ehnrge.
Al't'ir the .apiure had bfen made
inspector Murphy went to a lunch
loom at Cortland! nnd West Streets
and there, the inspector declares, hid-
den behind the counter he found
25.000INJEWELS
speaker clark
ASSAILS HUGHES N
A BITTER SPEECH
Says Republican Candidate
Has Shot His Bolt and Hailed
to Hit the Bull's-eye.
WILSON'S FINE RECORD.
Warns Hearers in View of Fine
Conditions to Stick by
the Administration.
nnt'NSWiriC. Me.. Aug. 19. Champ
Clark, Kpenker of tho IIouso of Hop
resentatlvcs, opened the cnmpnlrn In
ilnlno for tho Democrats to-dny In
n characterlstlcVapeech In which hej
told of the accomplishments of thn
Administration and Congress binder
tho leadership of President Wilson, no
also took noto of tho campaign tour
of Charles K. Hughes.
Mr. Clark said in part: "Judgo
HilRhes has made enough spsccbes In
this campaign to ennbln Intelligent
persons to form sotnothlng approxi
mating a eorrect Judgment as to his
opinions on current Issues, Ho lias
shot his bolt but failed to hit the
bull's. ee
"It wes universally conceded by
both friend and foo that his spoech
at Yoimgstown, O., In 1908 was far
and away tho greatest Republican
speech tnado that year. Comparing
his speeches since ho wns nominated
for President with his strong Youngs
town speech, ono is forced Inevitably
to ono of two conclusions: First,
thnt his pen and tonguo "have lost
their running measurably; or aecond,
that hn haH nothing worth while to
urgii against Democrat Ic accomplish
ments or to proposo as Republican
policies, should thn Republicans by
iiouie iiur.ii'ir win mo iioune, uio ncn-
urn mill iiiti i i fniui'UC .
HUGHES SPEECHES MERELY
"QUERULOUS CARPINGS."
"His speeches may 1m not unfairly
summed up as 'querulous rnrplng.s' at
the splendid record of a Democratic
Congress and n Dcmocratla Adminis
tration. Here nnd thero out of a vast
multitude of things hn finds a fow of
minor character which hn deems un
satisfactory to him which oven if
wrong havo no more to do with the
tremendous problems with which a
mighty peoplo aro wrestling than havo
the potato vines of Aroostook County,
Maine, to do with thu majestic How of
thn Mississippi Itlvcr
"It Is not within the power of
Judge Hughes or any other complain
ing orator to make u national IsHiiy
for Instance of tho removal of Dana
Durant as head of tho Census Ilurcau
uny more than ho can makn n na
tional lssun of who tired the Kpheslan
Dome, or who struck Hilly Patterson,
or who was tho man In thu Iron
Mask.
WE ARE ALL GOOD AMERICANS,
PRAISE GOD!
"Ho sayrt that ho Is In fftvor of 'un-
t"'UU'J Americanism.'
Ho aro wu all,
(Continued on Second Pago.)
; vvoman.s klng
tilled with tuoro
sinuggli il jewelry.
Thn customs officials say that a
waiter, ho hail formurly been em
plujcd in the lunchroom, liau at
Thomson's request concealed tha
stocking containing thn Jewelry than?.
The Jewelry In the suitcase, some of
which Is suspected of being of Ocr-
I man manufacture, wns packed In
I seven clg.ir boxes, and as yet It has
not been appraised by tho (lovernuient
HXiirrts.
I Additional developments and
rot arc e'tpected next week.
HOUR ULTIMATUM
STRIKE ON CAR
OUSTED MEN
Union Leaders Call on Mitchel
and Straus to Return and
Avert Tieup.
NEW HEARING DELAYED
Men's Committee Meets Hed
ley, but Withholds Original
Demands Till Tuesday.
Hlx o'clock Monday night Is the
tlmo now set by the leadcra'of ""the
Btreot Carmen's Union for calling un
other strike on the lines of tho New
York nallwuys Company tho com
pany which operates thn green lino
cars In enso tho fourteen men dis
charged by the company since the
peace agreement wa signed limt week
havo not been reinstated by that hour.
This was tho ultimatum left at tho
City Hnll this afternoon by the labor
lenders, following n futlln effort to
get in touch with Mayor Mitchel nt
Plattsburg for the purpose of urging
him to return and try to straighten
out tho new differences thnt havo
arisen.
"Wo havo flatly explained our po
sition to Secretary Uousscau," who
has ben trying to reach the mayor,"
said LouIh I". Frldlger, counsel for
thn union. "We do not consider tho
question of these discharged men
arbitrable. That will be explained
to Muyor Mitchell. Wo liellevo ho
will como back Immediately.
"There will he no strlko to-day or
to-morrow, as far as 1 can see, but
I believe tho patience of tho men Is
exhausted nnd unless their ills
charged fellow workmuu are at work
by 6 o'clock Monday night thiiro
nothing for them to do but strike,
according to their position us thoy
havo nuulc it known to us."
Tho union leaders telegraphed
Mayor Mitchel and Chairman Straus
last night urging thetn to return and
try to straighten out the new differ
ences that have arisen.
Tho union leaders said that In case
Muyor Mitchel persisted In his atti
tude that the question of tho dis
charged men should be submitted to
arbitration, thoy would feel that thoy
had done everything possible to nvort
trouble and would feel frco to act as
they saw fit.
"SITUATION SERIOUS," SAYS
MESSAGE TO MAYOR.
Following Is a copy of the telegram
sent to Mayor Mitchel:
Hon. John Purroy Mitchel, Mili
tary Training Camp, plattsburg,
N. Y.s
Situation quite serious. Havo
telephoned details to Mr. ltous
seau. liellevo your presence hero
Is qulto necessary.
Tho message sent to Chairman
Htraus read:
Hon. Oscar L,. Straus, Hlg Island
Pond, Me., via Faruilngton:
Situation very serious, liellevo
your preaencu here qultu neces
sary. Both telegrnms were signed by
louls J. Frldlger, attorney for the
union.
"Tho proposition of tho New York
Railways directors for us to go to
Mayor Mitchel and Chairman Straus
and havo this matter arbitrated,"
aid Mr. Frldlger, "was evidently
made for delay and was not In good
(Continued on Uecond Page.)
FOR MONDAY NIGHT UNLESS
LINES SET
GET OLD JOBS
TRADE TO NEW YORK
When Last Here She Carried
. Guns for Defense, at Which
Germany Entered Protest.
A despatch from Indon announces
that the Italian steamship Htampalta,
which until recently was engaged In
tho paasenger scrvlco between Genoa
and New York, has been' sunk, pre
sumably by a submarine.
La Veloco NTalgntlon Company, thn
owner or tho vessel, cabled Hnrtflnld,
Holarl & Co., thn local agents, nt No. 1
Stnto Street, to cancol nil reservations
for tho voyage from hero scheduled to
start on Aug. ?G.
Frank Flzznrottl, mannger of tho
Hnrtflold, Solar! & Co. office, said to
day when told of tho sinking of tho
Htampalla:
"Tho Htnmpalla wns probably being
used by the Itnllan Government for
transport purposes In tho Adriatic
Sea In connection with thn wnr with
Austria. Wo havo received no news
of hor nlnce. She wan armed for tin
fenso on her recent trlpH between
Italy and New York, which called a
protest from Germany.
"Her captain, Kugenn I.avarclln, was
spoken of at tho Stotn Street offices ns
ono of the youngest skippers In thn
service of La Veloco Company. His
crow comprised nlmuf 160 men, all of
whom hailed from Genoa, or other
ports In northern Italy."
Tho Duo d'Aosta. sister ship of tho
Htnmpalla, scheduled to leave Pier 74,
North IMvcr, at noon to-day, carries
a number of bookings set over by thu
local agents when the cancellation of
tho Stampalla's snlllng on Aug. 26 was
received.
Tho Htampalla s homo port was
Genoa. She measured t7C feet over
till, with S5 feet beam and 2U feet of
draught. She was built In 1!I0'J.
In Di;cenilT of 191! the Slnmpalla
went to tho reseun of thn Greek steam
er Thesnlonlkl when she was In trou
ble lu u storm northeast of lieriuud.i.
BELLEVUE PATIENT LEAPS
SIX FLOORS TO DEATH
Convalescent Calls "Goodby" to
Nurse Who I races Him to bal
cony and Takes Plunge.
An empty bwl In ward No. t at
Ilellovuo Hosplt.il, known to havo
been occupied n few minutes before,
atti acted the attention of a nurso
early to-day and she rushed to a bal
cony ovei looking a court Just In tlmo
to seo Joseph Moran, aged flfty-nlne,
perched on tho railing. "Goodby," hn
called, and with a wave of the hand
Jumped six floors to tho pavement.
He wnH Instantly killed,
Moran, who formerly lived at No.
ai North Williams Street, lliooklyn,
was admitted to the houpltal July 31
(For Raolng RetulU See Page 2.)
TALIAN LINER SUNK
PLIED IN PASSENGER
FIRST WOMAN AVIATOR
READY TO QUALIFY FOR
SERVICE IN U.S. ARMY
PREPARED TO QUALIFY
AS U. S. ARMY AVIATOR
Passes Flvinjr Tests at Mine
ola and Will 13c First
Woman in Service.
Alrcndy qualified an an air pilot,
Mrs. Waldo Pierce of No. 2S Hast
Ninth Street, a daughter of Mrs.
Isaac L. Illce, head of antl-nolso or
ganizations, soon expects to bo tho
only woman aviator qualified to fly
for tho United States Army. Her
husband Is with tho American Am
bulance Corps In France.
Mrs. Pierce yesterday, at tho Mln
cola field, passed all tho flying teats,
both alonn and with passenger,
necessary to qualify her ns an air
pilot. When ho' receives her llconie
from tho Aero Club sho will bo tho
only licensed nmateur woman pilot
In America. Sho will take tho testa
for tho military aviator's license at
once, and will thun be ready to fly for
tho army.
Aj Dorothy Itlce, Mrs. Plerco is
best known to Now Yorkers. She
met ' lerce, Harvard grailuato nnd
football star, In Madrid, where both
wero studying urt, and where later
both ncro married. Sho Is about
twenty-flvn yeara old, of the highest
type of American girl, and Is nctlve
and fearless. She Is one of thu four
famous Hlcn sisters.
Many New Voik motorcycle police
men know her lu tho days when she
was called thu llluo Streak because
of thu speed with which, clad In
bloomers, sho piloted her motorcycle
along Itlversldo Drive, A few times
thoy accusod her of going sixty miles
nu hour, Shu has climbed thu Alps,
travelled extensively, nna is a
painter, sculptor and musician. Moro
than one motorcyclo policeman Is
willing to wagor a month's salary
that some aviation records nru in for
a good smashing utter Mrs. Plorco
gets through collecting her flylng-
llcenses.
Hrriniili ('run 11 I'rlnee i'l N'niiliilril
PAItIS, Aug. 13. The report that
thu German I'rown Pi lure, Frederick
William, Is wounded and Is In u hos-
j pltal at Verdun is r.utiiuritatively
i di n Ita.
Mnuiiin'" u ImIitiiiiIIiiiuiI llililur
j WASHINGTON. Ann 19 f'onsKU' -I
lion of a in " inteniatUiiiHl irldrii or
tunnel fur NlnKara lllver at llllff.llii, by
, tm ul l UiiltiiilHta l .iiitliurlzi'il In a ulll tiy
I Iteprexentatlvu Hinlth of New Yurli. or-
ileiwl favorably icported to-ilay by tlm
Home Commerce CoimnlUcs,
PRESIDENT CALLS 14 MORE
EXECUTIVES TO THE CAPITAL
INSISTS ON A SETTLEMENT
Ready to Go to Congress for Appoint
ment of an Investigating Commis
sion, He Declares Suggests Rate
Raise if Plan Proves Hardship.
EMPHASIZES POINTS
WITH CLENCHED FIST
(Special from a Staff Carrsspedsnt of The Evening World)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 19. PresMent Wilson put the responsibility
for averting a nation-wide railroad strike up to the presidents of the
great railway systems of the country this afternoon. He told them
that the eight-hour day as a basis for wages, even when the work cannot
be completed in elgiit hours, has the sanction of the judgment of society,
and he believes In the eight-hour day standard.
The Frenldeat showed he nai determined.. Mereral Uses he eaphailied
point nlth clearhed Hut as he walked op and dowa before the railroad
execnthes la the Blue Room.
In a statement to the public, issued immediately after his conference
with the railroad executives, President Wilson said:
"I have recommended the concession of the eight-hour day that
is, the substitution of an eight-hour day for the present ten-hour day in
ail the existing practices and agreements. I made this recommendation
because 1 believed the concession right.
"The ftiht.hoar day now aadonbtedlr has the taactloa of the Jadgaeot
of society la 1U favor aad should he adopted as a basis for wages erea where
the actual work to be done canaot be completed within eight hours.
"Concerning tho adjustment which should be mado In justice to the
railroads and their stockholders In the payment and privileges to which
their mon aro now entitled (if such adjustments nro necessary) there Is
a wldo divergence of opinion. The railroads which hare already adopted
the eight-hour day do not seem to be at any serious disadvantage la respect
to their cost of operation, an compared with tho railroads that hare re
tained a ten-hour day, nnd calculations as to tho cost of the change must
If mado now, be made without regard to any possible administrative
economlos or readjustments.
"Only experience can make It certain rearrangements would be fair
and equitable either on behalf of tho mon or on behalf of the railroads.
That experience would be a dellnlte guide to the Interstate Commerre
Commission, for example, In determining whether as a consequence of Hie
change It would be necessary and right to authorize an Increase of rates
for the handling and turriuge of freight (for pasHfiier service Is nut
affected.)
"1, therefore, proposed that the demand fur extra pay for overtime
mado by the men and tho contingent proposal of thu railroad authorities be
postponed until facts shall have taken the place of calculations and fore
casts with regard to the effect of a chango to tho eight-hour day; that, In
the mean time, while experience was developing tho fads, I should seek
nnd, If need be, obtain, authority from the Congress to appoint a small body
of Impartial men to observe and thoroughly acquaint themselves with the
results, with a view to roportlng to Congress at tho earliest possible tlmo
tho facts disclosed 'by their Inquiries, but without recommendation of any
kind, nnd that It should then bo entirely open to either or both turtles to
tho present controversy to glvo notlco of a termination of tho present
agreements with a view to Instituting Inquiries Into suggested readjustment
of pay or practice.
"This stems to ntc n thoroughly practical ami entirely fulr pn'ramme
and I lliluk that the public has the right to expect Its accciiat:ce."
Soon after his conference with tho''
r.iiiioaii executives, i-resiiieui tMu-uii
sent a telegram to fouiteen pteldents
of Western railroads, The Piesldent's
telegram follows-
"Discussion of th matttri In
volved in the threatened railway
strike is still eontinuinq. It Is
I hluhly Important tilit I should
I personally confsr with you or
soma one authorised to rsprtssnt
you at the ssrllsrt possible mo-
meni. nope you can nrrann
myites aw am ig no npici 10 coms
to Washington at out "
I Tho mldltlomtl ra Iro.vi m -i calle l
I to 'WnshlnKton aro:
I 1 ....I.. l mil v ... . .
. . , , ,
jiiiih ,i. urn, uiimi .urinerii;
J. Karllnc, St. Paul; J, N. Hnnna
ford, Northern Pacific; K. P. Rlple.f,
Santa Kb; J. N. Dickinson, Itock IsU
and; R, F. Kearney, Wabash; W. C.
Nixon, St. Louis and San Franolaco;
4f
i
