fTHE WEATHER "FORECAST.
Jffclr to-day and to-morrow j tiot much
change in temperature.
Hlghtft tptrtir yttttrdajr, tt: lownt, N.
Detailed weather, mail and marina r sports en page .
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 354.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 1916. Copyright, IH. by the Suit Prlnllso and PublUMnp AuoeUMon.
ONE CENT
la Greaier Haw York.
1 KlMwIifn
J TWO CENTS.
nir im itewsra.
ii
CZAR'S TROOPS
FIGHT 3 MILES
INTO HUNGARY
Army Now Storming Aus
trian Position on Peak
Near Korosmezo.
PIERCE PASS NEAR
TRANSYLVANIAN LINE
flen. Brusiloff, by Terrific
Assaults, Reaches Road
Leading to Budapest.
OPENS WAY FOR DRIVE
ON SOUTH TO LEMBERG
Russians Also Break Down
Desperate Attacks Along
Zlota Lipa.
Pctrociuc, Aug. IS. The Russians
fcira advanced three miles Into Hun
(try and are storming Austrian posi
tions on a mountain peak near Koros
me so, at the western (Hungarian) end
of Jablonltw pass. From Korosmezo
runs the railroad that leads down Into
the fertile plains of Hungary, the Im
portant granary of the Teutonic
Powers.
(Jen. BrusllofTs army has fought Its
way tnrougn me Jauioniiza pan a.ons
the line of this railroad by hard tight-
tag on. the wooded Carpathian peaks
and ravines. Home days ago the Rus
sians took the town of Jablonltza. at
the eastern (Oallclan) end of the pans.
At the aime time the Russian offen
sive further north, along the Zlota
Upa front,' grows stronger. The de
tin lined Austrian counter attacks
have not stopped It permanently and
salna In several part of that front are
announced.--'
Flere Flghtla Peak.
Hungary has been entered at Its
northeastern corner, not far from the
Tranaylvanlan border. The point where
the fighting Is going, on now Is the
summit of the Carpathian range, and
the Russian urmy and their Austrian
adversaries have had fighting of the
tame sort an that on the Italian front,
amid mountain peaks and boulders unil
In the forests.
The Russians advanced along die rail
roads from Htanlslau and. Kolomea, In
Gallcla, which converge at Delatlu and
then in through Jablonltsa Pass. Once
through the pass, running through
Korosmeto, this railroad goes south
west, approximately, along tho line of
the Thelss River to Bslgeth, a distance
of some l.'.O miles, and on to Budapest.
Tlits railroad andathe valley of the
Thess probably will be the llpe, of
the Kuslan advance for the early part
of the Invasion of Hungary. The first
considerable town on the road, once
Korosmezo Is passed. Is Rahov.
relate Way to Leaabers;.
This success of the Russians
etrasghtens out their line south or the
advances about Stanlslau and Hallcs m
the southern drive for Lemberg. It does
more than thst, however, for It makes
possible a dunking movement upon the
whole Austro-Ger.-nan front from Plnsk
in Lemberg. which would hi turn com
pel a withdrawal far to the north. It
their advance Into Hungary Is main
tslr.ed the consequences will be of great
importance.
Hungary would be a rich prlij for the
armies of the Ciar and a heavy loi t.;
the Central Power. Hungary Is tn
treat wheat ixowlng. cattle raisins re
noti of the lustra-Hungarian empire,
and It has many valuable mines and am
munition works. Russian occupancy
would cut the Central Powers off from
these much needed and valuable supplies
and give them to the Russians.
-ear Korosmeto, where the Russians
save let foot on this proline country, ore
copper and lead mines of great value In
making munitions, and gold and sliver.
A little to the northwest are sheep graz
ing lands, and immediately to the south
are thick forests and a region about
ho.osjvar where pigs and sheep are
JfHed. As the Russians go further Into
Hungary wheat fields will become more
frequent. The south and east look like
aaniai, so wide are the fields.
Take Height by Storm.
To the north, In the operations to take
Lemberg from the south, the Russians
Iroie forward a little their wedge below
stanlilau, and took Lyalets, seven miles
southwest of It on the Bystrltxa-Solot-'Ina.
On the western bank of the same
liver the Russians took by storm a se
ries of heights toward Ardielux.
On the Zlota Mpa front, where the
Austrian and Germans, aided now by
the Turks, have made a stand after be
ing driven back on n wide front, the
iluulans withstood violent counter at
ck an day. The War Office says a
new advance la expected there soon.
ANGLO-FRENCH GAINS.
Vleterlea Reported Aloagr the
Somsse and at Verdaa,
Tonmn. Aug. 18. Anglo-French sue
tents on the Homme front and at Ver
aun. more towns threatened, hills and
ranches stormed, slant machine e-una and
,00 Hermans taken prisoners are re
Wrtfl to-night. Berlin admits reverses.
TO village of Maurepas In and about
"hlch there has been severe righting for
last week. Is almost entirely In
Jnnch hands. After beating back the
. - - ."
uiei uerman counter attacks after
atirday's gains there The French set)
W to clear the vlllgge.enUrely of Ger-
Bant, 1
It was desperste house to house fight -
m, ivr ui uerman naa rorunea several company, wnerever reejuieroa, wnn con
J"'ta" In ruined houses In the north- trolled by foreigners, from acquiring any
1 wettern part, which, with machine gunl interest in British ships.
were taken only at r4 coet The International Mercantile Marine,
Cea Hatted
PARALYSIS PUTS OFF
PRINCETON OPENING
Action Taken to Prevent Car
rying Disease Into Univer
sity Town.
rlNCTOM, N. J., AUf. II. TO ObVl
ate the danger or Infantile paralysis to
students and residents iof Princeton
President John Drier Hlbben, after
meeting with the Princeton tfoard of
Health and the university committee on
sanitation, to-day decided to postpone
the regular opening of the unlvenlty
from September 26 to October 10.
The action Is precautionary, but It
teemed beet In view of the existence of
Infantile paralysis In sections of the
country from which the university's
students are drawn.
AFTE1 HUNGARY'S WHEAT OOP
Voi Batockl of German Food Board
Negotiating, fa Report.
London, Aug. 18. An Kxchange Tel
graph Company despatch from The
Hague, says:
"llerr von Batockl, president of the
German food regulation board. In the
course .of an Interview with a Hun
garian Journalist said negotiations are
progretsslng between Berlin and Buda
pest with a view to Inducing Hungary
to turn over the surplus of the Hun
garian wheat crop to Germany. Heir
von Batockl said: 'We hope Hungary
will do this In the general Interest of
our cause.' "
DEUTSCHLAND SAID
TO BE AT BREMEN
Private Berlin Advice Reports
Arrival Thursday Seen
at Sea Aug. 10.
Gkneva. Aug. IS. A private telegram
receive! to-day from Berlin by the Keue
ZuHchtr Xettunfl says that the 'German
submarine
Deutschland arrived safely
yesterday
State;.
it Bremen from the United
Th Deutschland salted August 1 and
passed outside the Virginia rapes August
S. If she arrived Thursday she made
about the same time as on her outward
voyage.
Saw the Deatsehlaad."
Nswrorr Nsws, Va., Aug. II. The
reptain or a Norwegian steamer which
arrived -In Hampton Roads for bunker
coM stated to-day he psssed tteDeutach
lotnl August 10. The submarine was
under full sail. The cnptaln said he
tool: her for a sailing shin in distress.
He tecelved a reply which said she was
the Deutschland. The Deutschland had
collapsible masts fore and aft.
Interned Sailors Delighted.
Norfolk. Va Aug. II. News of the
reimrted safe arrival of the Deutschland
nt Bremen caused real delight among
the sailors of the auxiliary cruisers Cltel
Frieelrlch and Kronprlnz wlthelm. In
terneil at the Norfolk Navy Yard.
Report recelied here to-day Indicate
that the British submarine depot ship
Adamant, which was attending two
Rrltlth submarines, Is still near the
United Rates coast. She is said to be
within 200 lilies of New York.
CHEAP GASOLENE MOVOfO EAST.
Garaare Men Here Paying; S3 Ceate
In l.OOJI Gallon Lots,
Enstwi, d (he wave of gasolene redue
Hon Is sweeping, although no reduction
In the price of the Standard Oil product
was reported from No. 26 Broadway
yesterday. The price to the middle
men, the garage keepers who buy In
1.000 gallon quantities, continued yes
terday at 23 cents, a figure naturally
lower than that which the public paid for
Its motor Juice.
Tin United Press yesterday collated
statistics on gasolene prices and showed
the middle West from Denver to Chicago
Is enjoying thejowest prices In the coun
try. Chicago and Den Moines quoted
17 ' cents, and other cities gave on aver
age of IS and 1$ cents. The ton price
In that territory la being paid by Denver,
24 and 25 cents, while St. Louis gasolene
Is selling at 2Hi cents. Detroit Is pay
ing 10 cents, Indianapolis 21, Buffalo 23
and Albany 2S cents.
FOR POLAND'S AUTONOMY.
Germany aad Aastrla Held to Have
llracbrd an Agreement,
London. Aug. 19. According to spe
cial despatches to Dutch newspapers,
says the Exchange Tolegrnph's Amster
dam correspondent, Germany and Aus
tria have reached an agreement provid
ing for the recognition of autonomy of
Poland.
The despatches add that nn announce
ment to this effect has been made In
Warsaw.
MAYOR SHOWS HE'S GOOD SHOT.
Makes 34 Oat of PosaihU 33 t
nine Practice
Pi.ATTBL-no. N. V.. Aug. las In the
sub-calibre rifle practice of Company II,
Ninth Training Regiment, at the Camn
of Military Instruction to-day Second
Lltut. John Purroy Mitchel. Mayor of
New York, made a total of 24 out of n
possible 25 and was beaten by only one
man In the company. Private Ralph May
of Boston, who finished with a perfect
score.
Among the visitors to the camp to-day
was Chief Justice White of the United
States Supreme Court.
SHIP SALES TO U. S. BARRED,
BUI NoW Before British Parlia
ment Mkrlr la Pass.
lyiUMW All, is. American shinning
companies will be forbidden to buy or
acquire any Interest In British .ships dur
in the war or for three yenrs there'
after by the new shipping bill now be-
m Tk. hill U llb.lv in
iure 1 ni ii.iiiki...
paa, as It has Government backing.
Shipping men believe It will restrict
seriously the expansion of companies
i in Pn.lml but. controlled bv
1 foreign capital. The bill prevents any
nose .Mint leersjaaisaa, la raw aon
oeraea esjt U MM.
SHIP BILL JAMMED
THROUGH CONGRESS
Senate Democrat Vote For
Nand Republicans Against
950,000,000 Measure.
UNDERWOOD IS CRITICAL
Predicts Failure of Govern
ment Ownership Plan and
Attacks President.
Washington-, Aug. It. After a fight
extending over two years the Ad minis
tration has succeeded In jamming
through Congress Its fSO.000.000 Gov
ernment ownership shipping bill.
The much discussed and much
amended measure passed the Senate this
afternoon by a vote of Jl to SI, Every
Democrat voting was recorded In favor
of the bill. Kvery Republican who voted
was In opposition.
Senator Johnson, Maine, Democrat,
who it In a desperate struggle to hold
his seat asked that an announcement be
made that he was paired In opposition.
Manifestly Government ownership and
operation of merchant vessels Is not an
attractive platform on which to Invite
votes In Maine this year.
Not only does the passage of this
measure mark the biggest and most
radical venture In Government owner
ship ever undertaken by the United
States but It also brings Into being a
new commission which will have broad
powers over the shipping Interests of
this country, such as are now exercised
by the Interstate Commerce Commission
over railroads.
Underwood t'hldee Wilson.
The passage of the bill drew from
Senator Underwood, Alabama, a notable
speech In which he, one of the leading
Democrats of Congress, reviewed the
platform pledges broken by the Wilson
Administration and chlded the President
and his followers for failure to put Into
effect the .' per cent, discriminating duty
on goods Imported Into the United mates
In American bottoms.
This duty was provided in the Under
wood tariff la-, but the Administration
refrained from enforcing It because de
creasing revenues made It neceasary to
grasp even- dollar to avoid a bond Issue.
The lower court already has held that
these duties should have been refunded
and as. the case now stands tho Govern
rnenta la i obligated to pay back about
110,000,000 la duties. The refund has
been held up through an appeal to the
Supreme Court
Mr. Underwood charged that If this
original dlscrlsnlnatlnR duty had been
paid to American vessels the present
plan for Government acquisition and
ownership of merchant shipping would
have been unnecessary. Mr. Underwood
sharply criticised the Administration for
having dealt American shipping a blow
through the repeat of the Tanama free
tolls provision In violation of the Demo
cratic platform.
The Alabama Senator predicted that
no ships would be acquired by the Gov
ernment under the bill passed to-day, be
cause It would be Impossible to buy them,
und that the Government would have to
build Its own vessels, probably In Its
own. navy yards.
He further predicted that at the close i
of the war.
when normal conditions arc
restored, this Government, unless its
ships are admitted to the coastwise
trade, will find that Its etssels cannot
compete with foreign shipping and that
It Will have to resort to subsidies or dis
criminating duties to keep the American
flag on the high seas.
Civil Service Applied.
Amonr the amendments adopted In the
closing hours was one reducing the sala
ries of the five shipping commissioners
from 110.000 to 17,500 a year and another
putting the clerks and employees 01 me
commission under civil service.
Senator Thompson offered an amend
ment, which was accepted, directing the
Secretary of the Treasury to refuse
clearance papers to any foreign ship
that refused to carry American products.
Hepatoi Borah-offered the Immigra
tion bill as an amendment to the meas
ure, but was voted down. Senator Hard
ing offered nn amendment forblddfng
foreign built ships the privilege of enter
Ing Into great lakes trade, but this was
rejected, as was the amendment offered
by Senator Oalllnger to exclude ships ac
quired under the terms of the pending
h'.ll from coastwise trade.
Senator Harding nlso offered an
.m.n,im.nt to exclude foreign built ships
fiom the toastwlse trade, but Senator
Underwood denounced the coastwise
shipping as the greatest monopoly In the
world and the amendment was voted
down. When Senator uauinger cniaru
him because of the attitude of the Presi
dent nnd the Democrats In Congress,
which made the repeal of the Panama
free tolls provision posilble, the Senator
from Alabama ucciareu ubi 11.
nnnitv had nminsed the repeal.
"I accepted the platform declaration
of my party at Baltimore as expressive
of my views In the matter and It Is still
my policy." said Mr, Underwood. "I
have not changed. I thought the repeal
was a mistake then and I still think so.
ehin. rannot be obtained by the Govern
ment because they ore not for sale. Wo
are discussing something here that will
never happen.
"Then tne ue ,n... . ... . iiB0WKbVltLg. Tex.. Aug. IS. via radio
the Senator's wa ' hl"'n ' ,h.y 'to the Associated Press to Han Antonio,
wilt never "i"' , , "Ur'"rK 'Vl,Tex.-Damage here from the hurricane
pusses?" remarked Senator AVarren, B?-jwai , , 0 oVlock ,.,,
publican, wjonung.
Will Btrennthen Defence.
"Not nt nil." replied Senator Under
wood. "The Government, finding that II
cannot buy the ships, will spend 150,000,
000 building new ships that will lie
available for auxiliary cruisers, army
transports and the arm of the Govern
ment will be strengthened."
The bill passed by the Senate to-day
had previously won in the House, It will
now go to conference. In the last Con
gress the bill was urged as nn Adminis
tration measure, but n revolt of Senate
ivmocrats prevented Its passage. It had
to be materially modified In tbls session
to gel in nrt-..i.ij .ui'i'itfi, ...a new
bill will not affect shipping on rivers or
Internal waterways, but Is made to ap
ply to the oversea shipping and to tho
great lakes notwithstanding strong pro
teats from lake carriers.
Administration of the system Is to be
under the shipping board of five corn-
1 mlatloners to be appointed by the Preel-
dent subject to confirmation by the
Senate. The first commissioners are to
hold for two. three, four, five and six
years respectively and thereafter as their
terssa ajplra they shall he MMlWti tar
us y wa
HURRICANE SWEEPS
LOWER TEXAS COAST
Militiamen, Driven From
Tents, Camp Out in Browns
ville' City Hall.
WIRES TO CITIES DOWN
Corpus Christl Summer Homes
Wrecked by Wind Ves
sels in Danger.
San Antonio, Tex., Aug. II. The
lower Texas coast Is feeling the first
fury of "an approaching hurricane which
having swept up Into tho Gulf of Mexico
from the Yucatan Channel Wednesday
night now Is starting Inland.
At Corpus Christl, Brownsville and
other points wind velocities of seventy
riles an hour have been reported.
Weather forecasters say the crisis will
be passed by morning, and between now
and dawn coast points may expect to
feel the terrific sweep of winds at ISO
miles an hour.
To-night the regulars and the militia
men stationed at Fort Brown, Browns
ville, were forced to leave their quarters
and take refuge In the city hall and
other nubile buildings, according to
scrappy reports which came through by
the army wireless. The troops arrecteu
were Illinois. Iowa and Virginia regi
ments. They took two days rations
with them.
City Mar Be Dark.
A Government wireless to I-ort Sam
Houston at S.3S o'clock tn-nlsht said that , man Hay already has reintroduced the
trouble at the lighting station at Browns- nrmy bill in the House, eliminating not
vllle might leave the city In darkness, only the objectionable provision concern
and that the water supply Is In danger. Ing retired officers but also the entire
The Illo Grande was rising, the message section of the bill which Included the
slit, nml nl irashrfuts had been re- modified Articles of War.
potted. I
Gen. Parker, commanding, ordered
temporary abandonment of all military
encampments. The wooden buildings of 1
the Iowa camp were blown down, the i
Illinois camp was under water, the horses
of the Illinois Guard suffered greatly
fiom exposure,-much equipment has been
lost and all roads were Impassable.
Fort Sam Houston at 11 o'clock re
ported the following inemage from a
field wireless ststlon erected at Mc
Atlen, Tex., via the big radio at Dronws
vllle: "Half of New York National Guards
men's tents down and nearly that many
at Llano, Grande, Mercedes and Mis
sion. Thirty thousand soldiers sleeping
In publtp buildings. Four, and one-half
Inches of rain fell here. There la a lull
now, but new. atom -Is reported, comlng
from the east." k
All wires to Brownsville were down,
but the Marconi station here continued to
work with the army wireless, and late
to-night . Gen. Funston got word that
there seemed to be a slight lull In the
wind. Whether this was preliminary to
the real blast, or whether it wai the calm
in the centre of the disturbance, no one
would venture to say.
rice to Malalaad.
Summer residents on Padre Island
Beach fled to the mainland at Browns
ville early In the day, being warned of
the approaching storm. Kluhlng vessels!
also hurried Into harbor and were made
as safe as possible.
The steamer Pilot Boy of the Texas
and Gulf Steamshfp Company of Halves
ton. however, was caught In the storn
Cornus M.rls? Tand Ti,? ' alother peculiar provision was Included was In defiance of section 5 of the docu
Corpus Christl and OaUeston. There ,, tii .lnrument savs:
were twelve men In the crew. Three of
them have been washed ashore at Port
Aransas, twenty miles from Corpus
Christ). It Is reported, but this cannot be
verified.
Both telegraph companies have re-
j ported all wires down In all directions.
so that communication Is Impossible even
by circuitous routes, with the lone excep
tion of a single telephone wire from
Corpus Christl to Dallas, which worked
for a while to-night.
CORPUS CHRISTI HIT.
Gale Wrecks Summer Cottages and
Damage Rasluesa Building.
Conmis Ciiristi, Tex,, Aug. IS (By
telephone to Dalian). But few details of
-But few details of
h or north of here
arly to-night. i
the storm's work south
had been received early
Corpus Christl, howev
ver. the gale car-
. T l .
rled almost everything movable before
It. In Its wake It left demolished sum
mer cottages along the beach front
here, thousands of dollars damage to
buildings In the business section and a
heavy sea running In the bay.
Waves whipped over the beach In the
northern section of the city, throwing
small craft ashore and carrying up
debris from a score of docks and small
bathing pavilions. Lloyd's pier, a pleas
ure resort which Juts out over the water
1,000 feet, had been almost completely
demolished at 6 o'clock.
Fronting the business section, built on
the beach proper, is a four foot break
water. Heavy seas were breaking ovtr
that.
Thus far there has been no loss nf
life, according to available reports. Am
ple warning of the storm, It was said,
had been given.
SAFE AT BROWNSVILLE.
Itadlo Messagtr Nays Damage There
Was Slight.
' though the wind during the day reached
ll velocity of sixty miles an hour. The
barometer marked 29.27 during the
middle of the afternoon, but at 5 o'clock
It rote to 29.55.
At dark the territory In the reaches
of the storm extended from Corpus
Christl to Tamplco, Mexico. There was
then no sign of abatement.
The wind, starting from the northeast,
later changed to the southwiiaf, blowing
out to sea.
Hamate here consisted mostly of
broken Plato. glass windows nnd levelled
fences and trees. Hundreds of army
tents are down and the troops are mov
ing Into the city,, Communication by
telephone and telegraph is lost.
Point Isabel, a Gulf coast resort, re
port'', late to-day that all was well
there.
The steasrer Raccoon at Tamplco
sent a radio here reporting a ground
swell there.
Motor Transports Delayed.
Columbus, N. M., Aug. II. Reports
from the south to-night tell of heavy
rains In the territory occupied by the
American punitive expedition, caus'ng
great dJeooasforVJa ifta cash sad de
bVylaT aet or transports.
ARMY BILL VETOED
AS JOKER IS FOUND
Wilson Blocks Plan to Abolish
Courts-martial for He
.tired Officers.
ACTION A REBUKE TO HAY
May Delay Preparedness Fro
gramme and Put Off Con
gress Adjournment.
Washington. Aug. President Wil
son to-day unexpectedly vetoed the army
appropriation bill, carrying 27.000,000
for preparedness and many Important
features of the Administration's national
defence programme.
An obscure provision s'.lpped Into the
bill by Chairman Hay of the House Mili
tary Affairs Committee when It was In
conference was responsible for the Presi
dent's action. This provision removed re
tired nrmy officers from liability to spe
cial service and court-martial proceed
ings. The President denounced the pro
vision as dangerous to discipline and
probably unconstitutional.
The vetoing of this Important measure
constituted a significant rebuke to the
chairman of the House Military Affairs
Committee. Mr. Hay declined to com-
mint on the action of the President, bui
he thowed embarrassment.
Whether the President's veto will re
sult In delaying the preparedness pro
gramme and putting off the adjournment
of Congress remain to 1. .n. Chair.
These modified articles were urged by
the President and Secretary of War. and
-Senator Chamberlain, chairman of the
nate Committee on Military Affairs,
1"'."nno,uncd ,h wl he Included
!" ,h ' 1 Introduced In the Senate. This
means that the army appropriation bill
win lie inrown into conference again,
wnere the tight between Hay and the
Administration win be fought out.
Mar Recall Democrats.
Ir Representative Ifv hmii,i nm.in
Insistent, a call probably will have to be
sent for Democratic members, mmv nf
whom have returned to their districts to
iook artcr their political fences.
' It has been reported that the TTiv
Joker was Inserted In the army bill In
the Interest of Gen. Alnsworth. retired.
who .desired to publish his side of the
ell fcrrown amy controversy between
himself and Gen. Wood. It was rumored'
that Gen. Alnsworth had even written a
hok. which would .make Its appearance
as mon as tnere was no danger or court
'martial. Mr. Hay from the beginning
i of the Wood-Alnsworth controversy, has
been a supporter of the latter.
Mr. Hay has denied emphatically that
he consulted Oen. Alnsworth or any one
else in regard to the legislation, or that
It was Intended to help Alnsworth. He
has Insisted that courts martial of retired
army officers wa unnecceHary and
ought to be nbollshed, as they could bo
reached by the State courts for serious
offense. Mr. Hay denied that Oen.
Alnsworth, i far as he knew, was think
ing of publishing a book,
The action of the President In killing
this Hay provision has aroused all the
1 more comment because of the fact that
In the bill at Mr. Hay's Instance. This
latter provision filled the vacancy In the
Judge advocate general's office and de
scribed In such detail the qualifications
that only one man was capable of filling
It. This man was Judge Carson of Vir
ginia, a friend of Chnlrman Hay.
Mr. Hay was recently appointed to a
life Job on the Court of Claims by Presi
dent Wilson and will retire from Con
gress on September 1.
Wilson's Veto Message.
President Wilson's veto message fol
lows :
"To tub Hol'sk or HrrrxsnsTATtvEs :
I have carefully considered the bill en
titled 'an act making appropriations
for tho support of the army for the
"smI year emllrg June 80. 917. and
now take he liberty of returning It with
my objections to Its approval.
" 'l I conrtltuto an essential part
I nf llin l.ffl.latlnn tirnvlfllnr f..r the mill.
tary establishment of the country and
- -
wisely nnd generously provides for the
reorganization of the agencies of our
national defence, and It Is wlrh
genuine reluctance that I delay Its be
coming law by suggesting the elimina
tion of one of the provisions which has
been embodied In the very necessary
and Important revision nf the Articles
of War which has been added to It.
"The existing Articles of War are un
doubtedly uichalc. They have not under
gone comprehensive revision for more
than 100 years. They do not always fur
nish the means of meeting promptly nnd
directly the needs of discipline under
modern conditions, and many contin
gencies now frequently arise In the gov
ernment of tho military forces which
were not contemplated when the present
code was formulated. The relations of
the Government of the United States
have greatly broadened within the hun
dred years. We now have Insular pc
sesslons and national Interests fnr nway
from our continental s'lores. Both the
practice of arms and the theory of die
rtp'lne have undergone many modern
changes and a manifest need for such
j a rrviwH.u uirti ururiea as is nere
presented has long existed. I there
I forn the more keenly regret to find In
the proposed revision of the Articles of
War a provision to which I cannot give
my approval,
nrasnna for Objection,
' Tho original act establishing the re
tired list of Ihe nrmy referred to the
personnel therein Included us only par
Hilly retired and provided that n ie-
fired officer should be entitled to wear
the uniform of his grade, should be
borne on the nrmy register und should
be subject to the rules und articles of
war and to trial by general court-mnr-tlal
for any breach of these articles.
By the act of July 24, 1S7I, officers
of the army on tho retired list were
specifically declared to constitute a part
of the regular army, a provision which
Is found repeated In subsequent acts af
fecting the 'organization of the army,
and other statutes enacted during this
period made retired officers of the army
available for certain classes of nctlve
duty, In time of peace with their con
aent, and In time of war without their
consent.
"By the recently enacted national de
fence aot the authority of the President
- -
Cents sd pa aaoond Peg s.
DEMANDS OF
REFUSED BY NEW YORK
RAILWAYS DIRECTORS
t
Board Willing, Men Unwilling, to Arbitrate Question of
Reinstating 14 Discharged Employees Both
Sides in Final Appeal to Mayor and
Oscar S. Straus.
Directors of the New York Railways Company and a
committee representing the employees recently on strike met
in conference yesterday at 165 Broadway and the omciais
decided not to yield to the demand of the union committee
for the reinstatement of fourteen discharged employees. They
demanded that the question be arbitrated.
The workers, contending
decided in the peace treaty of
Both sides appealed to
Straus, chairman of the Public
with a request for arbitration , the employees with a demand
that the company reinstate the men without further negotia
tions, which they regard as contrary to the spirit of the peace
agreement.
Mitchel and Straus Hold Key.
Only Mayor Mitchel nnd Chnlrraan 1
Slrnus enn bring about a renewal of
the treaty mutually ratified. Not for
duys yet will there be 11 Htrlke If
nt all but there was no escape yes
terday from the conclusion the work
ers will Ktiind tlrmly for reinstate
ment nf their fellows, even If the
whole New York transit system must
be stopptil to do It.
After n rejection of their pleit yes
terday for the reinstatement of the
fourteen discharged employee, fol-'
lowed by what they called n plain
snub by the directors, the committee
of the workers left the company's of
fices hot for reprisal. They reached
the decision within n few minutes
after the directors stated their atti
tude that the entire strike settlement
agreement becomes n mere "scrap of
poper" unless the company puts the
fourteen men hack to work.
In all probabllty, unless the Mayor
and Chairman Straus find the eolation,
the conditions wilt revert to those which
existed before Mitchel and Straus
brought the factions together.
a 8sasarr of Sltaatlea.
This la a summation of the situation:
In the-two days preceding the end of
the strike a number of minor acts of vio
lence were reported, acts which resulted
In the arrest of strikers. Thirty-nine
men In all were seised. Nine of these
were acquitted. Of the remaining thirty
convicted, sixteen so disguised their Iden
tity that the company could not recog
nise them In court. The law department
of the company, however, did make a
list of fourteen men who were convicted
One of the company's first acts after the
restoration of peace was to refuse rein
statement to these employees.
In the contention of the union, which
represents the road workers, this was
defined as a plain violation of the treaty
signed by both sides. They contenueu 11
mmt. Th ilocumenl says
"If the above is agreed to and accepted
It Is further agreed that the employees
flmll declare oft the strike nnd return to
work Immediately In the positions they
occupied prior to the tlmo of going on
strike, without prejudice."
The adherence of the directors after a
conference yesterday to their purpose of
refusing to take the convicted men back
was construed by the union men as u
plain violation of faith. They feel that
this Uolfttlon If maintained Is sufficient
to cause abrogation of the whole docu
ment. Statement by Directors.
In the following statement, Issued by
the directors after they held a star cham
-ea.. ; c0),
. I h defiance of the union'!
, P" V l ' '....
ber session following tneir conierrm-w
1 T. V " 'meet Ing ' August IS of the board
I At a inrrima ... ... ,,
.n. f fi iv 1 oris iiuim.jr.
f,nv at which a majority was pres
Jl lllll'VlW.. - ----- - - - -
etit. after receiving a committee repre
sentlng employees of the company, the
following minute was adopted unanl-
'"m0),!',, board reiterates Its adherence
to the agrtenient of August 7 with Mayor
Mitchel nnd Chairman Straus. The fun
damenul purpose which controlled thl
, .j in . .not limine that agreement was
that It not only settled the existing strike
hut that It offered an onleily. speedy and
equitable method of settling any Issue
which might arise without recourse to
strikes. The officers and employees of
this company have from the beginning
been directed, and are at all times ex
pected, to adhere scrupulously to the let
ter and the spirit of that ngreement.
" 'In reference to the letter of August
I.', signed by a committee of this com
pany's emptoyees, alleging certain viola
tions by this company of that agreement,
this board Indorses In whole and In part
the communication by President Shunts,
dated August II, relating to these coins
plaints and addressed Jointly to Mayor
Mitchel and Chaliman Straus.
Why Men Were Sot Reinstated.
"'As to the complaint that this com
pany has not restored to ItsLservlce all
employees "without prejudice" who were
on Its payrolls when the strike started
on the night of August 4 :
"'Reports of the Inannglug officials
show that the only failures to reinstate
employes since the ngreement of settle
men', was mode were In the case of four
teen men who hod been tried and con
vlcled of crime In the courts of Justice.
" "There were during the strike thirty
iteven arrests of employees for violence.
but every man accusea was reiusiaieu
helnc acquitted.
" 'This board does not understand that
the agreement of August 7 constituted
any undertaking to reinstate employees
who had violated the criminal law of tho
Stale.
' 'it Is nnd has for many years been
the firmly established policy of tho com
pany, in the Interest of public safety, not
to employ mrn who have been convicted
of crime as conductors or motornten or
In any positions in which they come In
contact with the public. We-do not feel
free to deviate from that policy,
" 'Till board considers that all rases
of failure to reinstate employees con'
vlcted of crime Involve questions of ef
ficiency and are covered by paragraphs
I and I of the agreement with Mayor
CARMEN
this point had been definitely
August 4, declined to arbitrate.
Mayor Mitchel and Oscar S.
Service Commission the road
Mitchel and Chairman Straus, as fol
lows :
i. In the Interest of publto safety
and public service, the company wants It
clearly understood that the direction and
control of employees In alt mutters look
ing to efficiency In the service remains
with the company, and Is not to be the
subject of conference or arbitration, but
ir a dispute should arise as to whether a
particular rase falls within the above
class that question shall be subject to
conference and arbitration as above pro
vided ror.
5. If tho above, Is agreed to and ac
cepted. It Is further agreed that the em
ployees shall declare off the strike and
return to work Immediately In the po
sitions they occupied prior to the time of
going on strike, without prejudice."
" 'While matters of efficiency are not
under the agreement subject to arbitra
tion, nevertheless the argreement stipu
lates that "all disputes that may arise
between the company and the employees
In the future on which they cannot
mutually agree shall be submitted to
arbitration as herein provided."
Board Willing; to Arbitrate.
" 'The board Is willing under this last
clause to submit to arbitration the ques
tion at Issue as regards the reemploy
ment of the fourteen wen found guilty
of crime. The committee of the men
claim that the question Is not properly
a matter for arbitration on the ground
that clause V. required the company to
reinstate alt employees, no matter what
offences any of them had committed.
' -rne board recognises that- this dif
ference of opinion Involves Interpreta
tion of a document submitted no this
company'by the Mayor and Mr. Straus
and underwritten by them. This com
pany, therefore. Is quite willing to sub
mit to Mayor Mitchel und Chairman
Straus the determination as to whether
vr not under the terms of this agreement
the question nt Issue Is properly one for
arbitration under the last paragraph of
section 111.
"'It must be understood that this
hall not be legarded as a precedent in
dealing wlrh questions of efficiency In
the future under paragraph IV.' "
Outsider" plead for Men.
Despite the company's earlier declara
t'en It would recognise no union, at
yesterday's conference three "outsiders"
wired the employees' side In the con
troversy. Those who presented the ar
gumentn for reinstatement were William
II. Fitzgerald, organizer of the Amnl
pimated Association ; Hugh Krnyne of
tl'c Amerlcun Federation of Labor and
JaiuIs Fridlger, counsel for the union.
Tiese men were chosen by the employees
as their spokesmen,
Mnyor 'Mitchel is In Plattkbuig train
ing with the citizen soldiers. Chairman
Straus also is out of town. Copies of
the minutes of the executive meeting
were forwarded to both. Just one mall
behind went the protest of the union.
The climax of events will compel the
return of both. They probably will
tench here Sunday, possibly to-day. Un
til they have done what they can, the
employees will ntttmpt no drastic action.
Election of delegates from among em
ployees of the Interborough was com
pleted yesterday after 9.710 of the U.OuO
men had cast their billots. The heavy
vote Indicated unionizing has not hail
much progress among subway and "L"
men.
HILL FIGHTS 8 HOUR FLAN.
Great Northern Never Will Arcept
It. Say President.
St. Pavi., Minn., Aug. 18. Iiuls Hill.
president of the Great Northern Railroad
Company, to-night snld that that rail
road, In common with others In the
Northwest, would never accept the elcht
hour day principle, as Its adoption would
mean receiverships for the big railroads
of the country.
V hatever the outcome of the confer
ences nt Washington, In which tho Great
Northern heads have not participated.
his road would not accept the principle.
Mr. 11111 nun, even tnougn it had to
"stand out alone agalnt'tjfl."
SHOOTS WIDOW AND HIMSELF.
Wllllnmtbarar Man's Plea to Wed
Rejected by 111 sJlter-ln-lav.
Because she refused In listen to lib
pleas to marry him, Charles Huddy, 21,
of IS1 Palmetto ntreet, Williamsburg,
shot nnd perhaps fatally wounded Mrs.
Catherine Gallagher, 31, n widow, of 30
Law ton street, last night on the street,
When she fell after three hhots Huddv
turned the revolver on himself and fired
twice under the heart. Both are at the
liushwtcK Hospital in a serious condl
tlon.
Mrs. Gallagher Is Huddy's Mster-ln-
law. since tier nusnand. Chiiiie Gallu
gher, 11 letter carrier, died a week ago,
Huddy persistently pressed his atten.
tlons, and Mr.. Gallagher hid from him
In the homo of her mother, Mrs. Mary
Ixmgatreet of CIS Hart Mrrct. Lust
night he met her as she stepped from
the house with her seven-year-old
daughter and snot tier.
Shark Arnand Stoke llnnir.
Stamkord, Conn.. Aug. 18. Two
sharks one about ten feet long nnd the
other slightly smnllvr. hovered fur
twenty minutes this afternoon around
Carltas Inland, J, l. Phelps. Stokcs'H
summer home. Mr, Stokes and others or
the summer colony saw the sharks.
Arthur Pomeroy, 12, nnd Ralph. 10,
sons of A. O. Pomeroy, a New Vork
manufacturer, paddled out In u canoe to
engage In a battle with theisharks, but
the youngsters were called bach by
grownups. r
RAILWAY HEADS
OPPOSE WILSON;
MEN 0. K. PLAM
Thirty-one Executives to
File Formal Answer to
8 Hour Plea To-day.
PKESIDEXT FORCES
ISSUE WITH ROADS
Hints of Government Own
ership as Alternative
to Strife.
WORKERS APPROVE
PROPOSAL BY 3 TO 1
Counter Suggestion or Re
jection of White House
Terms Expected.
Was!.votov, Aug. 18. NcKotlatlons
between President Wilson and the four
contending; brotherhoods and thirty
one railroad executives of tho United
States were brought to tho veruc of a
crisis to-night, tho outcomo of which
probably will be Indicated to-morrow.
Whether theso final efforts to bring
about n peaceful solution of the over
shadowing problem an to end In suc
cess appears to depend on a change
of attitude cither on the part of the
President or of tho railway officials.
Representatives of tho four brother
hoods by their acceptance of thy Presi
dent's pence plan to-diy have prac
tically eliminated themselves from the
prestnt situation. As the advocate of
the eight hour day t:,e President ap
pears as the protago-.ilst of the 400,000
railway employees an! tho struggle is
between him and the irllroadg.
nhmlts Plan of Settlement.
Between these two a deadlock prevails.
The President to-day aut.i.lttcd his
plan of settlement to thirty-one rail
way executives, proposing the accept
ance of a basic eight hour day und the
appointment of a commission to i-tudy
all collateral questions. The railway
executives did not give their answer t
once. They will meet the President
aguln to-morrow, und upon the out M.r.i
of this conference tho future courso of
both sides will depend.
There Is no more Indication of yielding
on the part of the railroad executives
and managers to-night than there Is
that the Preside; . will nlmndon his
plan of settlement. The railroad officials
take the view that the question has
assumed a much broader aspect than
that Immediately Involved In tho present
controversy, namely whether the prin
ciple of arbitration In the ettlement of
wage disputes In f he nli.ituloiu'il or
whether coercion under tin cut of a
strike shall prevail. '
It Is understood the r.iilro.ul execu
tives will reply ti the President's mo.
pos.il by suggesting iiibltratlon. They
do not minimize the gravity of tho situa
tion that will follow the ireeiit.iton of
such a demand In lieu nf the plan offered
by the President. The undercurrent of
opinion that at tho laht moment they
will bow to the will or Mr. wiimiii and
place upon him the responsibility for the
adoption of the eight hour day still ex
ists. StaniUnic by the Managers.
But there were no signs to-night that
the railroad prtsldints or even ;i mhhII
proportion of them will yield their
ground. Their decision has been up to
the present moment to Mntid by the
board of managers', whether a strike Is
to follow or not, Their respond?, In tho
nature of an ultimatum, will be to that
end.
The railway executives were received
by the President ut '.' P. M, He ipol(0 to
tlitm without formality, presenting his
plan of settlement, vt.ildi Is the tame as
that submitted to the employees jester
day. By way of a preface, however, 1m
referred to the possibility of Government
ownership as the obvious alternative of
unremitting strlfn between tho r.illroad.i
and their employees.
He Is said to have added th.it lie did
not welcome Mich u prospect any moro
than the executives did tli incl e.-;.
He also is quoted u.s having suhl ho
had been surprised to discover that
among the emplojees it passionate, ic-
sentment toward tho railioadx existed.
Ircldeiitully, l-e referred to the recent
situation In France, where, upon thteiit
of a strike, the Government called to the
colors the employees Involved and de
tailed them to nperatn th trains.
The railway executives present, who
direct the operations of u larse propor
tion of the railways of the United States,
listened to these observations In silence.
When the President had concluded Mule,
llolden, president of the Chicago, Bur
lington and Qulnry, who had I ...en desig
nated as spokesman, replied hrleily.
Three Point In Controversy.
He said thero were three points In
volved In tho controversy which tho ex
ecutives hnd to consider:
First The duty of the railroad
towurd the public
Second Tho duty of the officers
toward the preservation of the pmp.
ertles committed to their charge.
Third Their duty towurd the 72 per
cent, of eniploccs who urn not mem
bers of the four biotherlioods.
Mr. llolden also e.ild that the cxivii
lives came to tho White llouso with
open minds, that they would gvo care
ful consideration to any iiropv.il ths
President had to malm to thfin, but
that they would Indlvldunlly speak only
lor their own roads-, while tho board of
managers had been legally authorized
to net for all the railroad of the
country.
Mr. llolden endeil by saying the exe
cutives wero lint disposed to tnko a
stand different than that of the) board
of managers. The question now- nt la
sue, he added, was not one ot an
I eight hour day merely, but whethef the
