8
1M.
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOli. H NO. 291
ituenmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, AUG-TTST 19, 1916.
Centra bt, 101(5, bt ins Pdbmo Ltooia Commit!.
PRICE 02Ti2 OB'l1
J$fe
BODY OF INFANT
SCOURGE VICTIM
BARRED BY DIXON
State Health Commissioner
Refuses Permit to St.
David's Boy's Mother
jtfUST WAIT FOR WINTER
Record of Paralysis
From Midnight to 2 P. M.
New eases in Philadelphia....
Deaths in Philadelphia......
New State cases outside city. .
New cases in New Jersey. ....
New cases in New York
Deaths in Now York
S
8
4
0
134
34
Thft body of a child who died of Infan-
k u,0 paralysis In New York was barrod
today from this Stato Dy ur. aamuei u.
Dixon. Health Commissioner of Pcnn-
K- nrlvanta.
- In spite of remonstrances of tho persons
nho wished to ship tho body to rnnaaoi-
phla for Jiurini, ijociur ijuu wua mm m
his refusal, saying " " MHiuiiuiuii
Vould he allow such a body to bo brought
fcf Into Pennsylvania until cold weather nets In.
V . . 1K TniMAII Ot Altl A 1A
Kt The Doay is mm. "" um, .v
ft, years old, only son of Mrs. James D. Steele,
Bu . ...a v...-. TnnMntftF fivpnlln. KL T)nvliVn.
who' was spending tho summer at Point
C pltasant Club, Lalto Ontario, N. Y. Tho
K'fcoy, who was a student at St. Lukols
- School .Wayne, died shortly boforo mid-
ft right, after having been 111 three days. His
father, who died eight years ago, was a
MMv known physician, attached to tho
j staffs of tho University, Presbyterian and
ether hospitals In this city.
Charles Seuart, an Ardmoro undertaker,
commissioned by relatives here to bring the
btdy home, was refused permlstson to have
the body shipped from New York. Tho
grief-stricken mother, who Is under quar
ts .nilne. will nrobably haev tho body burled
In New York temporarily, relatives hero
said.
Doctor Dixon today vigorously assailed
the statement Issued, following tho national
conferenco on Infantile paralysis In Wash
ington, to tho effect that next summer o
far worso epidemic of tho disease would
sweep the country.
FOOLISH ASSERTION
"Thero Is no reason In tho world why
my one should make such a foolish asser
tion, ho said. "No ono can prophesy what
an epidemic will be next year any moro
than the weather man can prognosticate the
yeather conditions a year from today. It's
sot only ridiculous on the face of It, but
In addition It Is doubly foolish thus to
frighten tho pooplo with visions of some
thing moro terrlblo to como.
"Tho people of the Stato already havo
enough to worry about without having
added worries heaped upon them by per
sons who make follah assertions," Doctor
Dixon said.
Dr. C. Y, White, at the Municipal Hospital,
has now gathered four ounces of the pre
cious serum with which he expects to save
lives. By Tuesday or Wednesday he hopes
' to have procured enough from the 400 vol
unteers to be able to start using It
Bishop Rhlnelander, of the Episcopal
Church, and Archbishop Prendergast, of the
Cathollo Archdiocese of Philadelphia, have
given out copies of 'their order to their re
tpectlve clergy under their direction In
"which they carry out Director Krusen's re
J quest that Sunday school Instruction for
HI youths under 16 bo discontinued while
e. the Infantile paralysis situation remains as
lad as It is. ,
The Rev, Dr. William H. Roberts said the
Presbyterian pastors could be depended on
to fall In line with Doctor Krusen's wish, and
the Rev, Dr. Orlando T. Stewart, speaking
for the Baptist Union, spoke similarly. Rabbi
Isaao Landman said tho Jewish congrega
tion had not even considered the matter as
, yet because they hold no religious school
service in the summer.
The Emergency Aid has called a meeting
of all persons Interested in tho treatment
of children recovering from infantile paral-
yns w be held Wednesday morning at 11
o'clock in the headquarters, 1428 Walnut
i street. Director Krusen and other Dhvsl-
rclana will epeaW
I - mo jieopie, no saia, "not to believe
Much statements. Let them think of this
Ijrerr, and act accordingly. Thero is enough
ta be done now without worrying about the
future. We're taking every precaution and
imaklng me ot every preventive measure
fctaown. The situation is not as bad aa it
rM in 1910 throughout the State, when
there were 1112 cases. Up to the present
ftlme. with what should be the' worst month
i Wore than half gone, -we havo had 356 cases
, Pennsylvania,
'We believe In Ben-esratlnn In niiinnllr.
i,y one State against another, We ask of
.joiner Stato only what we ask of our
; n people: 'is this perEfc a proper person
i w Jet tar Is not tharalr? If it isn't
i common sense and the duty of the health
Partraent, I don't know what Is."
eight deaths -was th Jimw nii ,!,,
i, today bv th ri.m,. , ,1.1. -i... ...
ii?58 new cases reported since mid
;""", brings tho record to !71 cases and
Continued on Tan Two, Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Phllntlalnhin nurl .mV,,,V Pn;.
tonight and Sundam not much ekanna
n temperature; light variabh winds.
TTOivn nu -vwv
f S ? I !J3 - ) oon rUe. as p. m.
l"a ti,,. 42 p. ro. Moon souths 4:10 a.m.
DELAWABK BIVKB TIBS CMANUES.
CHESTNUT STREET.
atr 12 43 . m I row water. 1:00 p. m.
tr fi J2 . to. I HUU water. :10 p. m.
'ia;
TEUVEEATPKH AT EACH IIOUB,
10
11 ll 3
3-2
Ml8
Si
WILSON DEMANDS RAILROADS
YIELD ON 8-HOUR COMPROMISE
TEST, THEN GET EXPERT REPORT
President, in Statement to Public, De
clares Society Is Back of Plan to
Avert Strike and Roads
Must Act
Trial of Scheme All Asked, Then President, if Necessary,
Will Get Congressional Authority for Commission to
Probe Results Arbitration for Side Issues
Proposed to Officials
WASHINGTON, Aug. 19. The White House announced this
afternoon that the presidents of all of tho railways in the United
States affected by the threatened strike who arc not here now con
ferring with President Wilson were asked to come to Washington at
once. The President wants all of the railway companies to share in
the responsibility if a strike is precipitated. Telegrams were sent
to the ones not now here.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 19. While tho rnilwny presidents today were care
fully explaining to President Wilson why, in their opinion, they could not im
mediately grant to their employes tho eight-hour work day, the Prcsfdcnt issued
to the public what was in effect an ultimatum to the road3 demanding that they
accept his plan on trial.
Tho railway presidents went into conference with the President at 11:30
o'clock and concluded at 12:20.
In his statement the President declared that tho eight-hour day had the
sanction o society in its favor and should bo adopted even in cases where the
work called for could not bo done in eight hours. He declared that only by thor
ough experience could it bo demonstrated whether it is true that the railroads
cannot carry on business by granting this concession, as it will require that ex
perience to show tho Interstate Commerce Commission the facts.
Tho President demanded that tho xailroads concede the proposition already
accepted by the men and permit the overtime question and the contingent pro
posals of the railroads to be passed upon by a commission of experts.
The President insists that such commission shall ascertain the facts and
report, but shall make no recommendntions. When hc report is complete
tho President desires that either side shall have tho right to give notice of the
termination of the present agreement.
It was accpted in official circles that the President's statement was de
signed to hold tho railroads responsible if they shall continue to refuse to accept
his plan and insist on arbitration of all of the questions at issue.
Tho President's statement follows:
"I havo recommended tho concession of tho eight-hour day that is, tho sub
stitution of an eight-hour day for tho prcsont ten-hour Cay in all tho existing prac
tices and agreements. I mado this recommendation because I believed the conces
sion right. Tho eight-hour day now undoubtedly lias tho sanction of tho judgment
ot society in its favor and should bo adopted as a basis for wages ovon where tho
actual work to bo done cannot bo completed within eight hours.
"Concerning tho adjustment which should be mado in Justice to the railroads
nnd their stockholders in tho payment and privileges to which tho men aro now
entitled (It such adjustments aro necessary) thero is a wido divergence of opinion.
"The railroads which havo already adopted tho eight-hour day do not seem to
bo at any serious disadvantage in respect oftholr cost of operation, 03 compared with
tho rnilroads that have retained n 10-hour day, and calculations as to tho cost of the
chango must if mado now be made without regard to any posslblo administrative
economies or readjustments.
"Only experience can make it certain rearrangements would bo fair and
equitable either on behalf of tho men or on behalf of tho railroads. That experienco
would bo a definite guide to tho Interstate Commerce Commission foi xamplo in
determining whether na a conscquonco of the change it would r' xessary and
right to authorlzo an Increase of rates for handling and carriage ... freight (for
passenger service is not affected).
"I therefore proposed that tho demand for extra pay for overtime, mado by tho
men nnd tho contingent proposal of tho railroad authorities, bo postponed until
facts shall havo taken the placo of calculations and forecasts with regard to tho
effect of a chango to tho 8-hour day; that, in tho meantime, while experience was
developing tho facts I should seek, and If need bo obtain, authority from the
Congress to appoint a small body of impartial men to observe and thoroughly
acquaint themselves with the results with a vlow to reporting to Congress at the
earliest posslblo time tho facts disclosed by their inquiries, but without recommen
dation of any kind: and that It should then be entirely open to either or both
parties to tho present controversy to give notice of a termination of tho present
Continued on rac,Two, Column Four
1MN WITH GOVERNOR
OF ILLNIOIS ON BOARD
IN TRACK OF STORM
Left Brownsville, Tex., at Height
of x Gulf Hurricane and Has
Not Yet Reached
Houston
TELEGRAPH WIRES DOWN
HOUSTON. TEX, Aug. 19, The train
bringing Governor Edward Dunne, of Il
linois, from Brownsville 10 Houston has not
been reported today and nothing la known
of the Governor's whereabouts, The train
left Brownsville yesterday afternoon during
the height of the hurricane and has not
been heard from since. Ail wires are down.
DALLAS, Tex., Aug. 19. The Southwest,
ern Telegraph and Telephone Company re
ceived a wireless from Brownsville via
dalveston shortly before noon today stat
ing that the 30,000 National Guardsmen
thero and in the vicinity are safe. No loss
of life resulted from tho hurricane in that
region.
GALVESTON, Aug. 19. Apprehension
was felt hero today for the safety of the
1000-ton steamer Fort Morgan, now 30
hours overdue from Pueroto, Mexico, bound
for this port She parries a crow of 23, but
tho number of passengers is unknown. It
Ta feared sho may have foundered in tho
Gulf hurricane.
Nothing has been heard from tho Red
Snapper, flee. which probably ran Into the
Btorm off the Campeche Banks.
Tho steamer Nicaragua, ashore on Padro
Island, Is reported to havo broken to uleces.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Aub. 1$. Array
ocers at Fort Sam Houston made unavail
ing efforts today to get in touch with
Corpus Christ! by telegraph, and telephone,
but wrp notified that all wires were down
In Uxs hurrlcan one.
FUNSTON PLAN TO BRING
TROOPS BACK OPPOSED
BY STATE DEPARTMENT
War Secretary Baker Declines
'Comment, but Suggestion
Causes Dissatisfaction in
Lansing's Office
(
FEAR DIPLOMATIC BLOCK
WAHINGTON, Aug. 19. Although Sec
retary of War Baker refused polntblank
today to comment on the report that Gen
eral Funston has recommended to the War
Department- tho Immediate withdrawal of
the Pershing expedition, it was learned on
excellent authority that this is the posi
tion of the border oommander-ln-chlef.
Funston, in a report sent to the War De
partment last night, declared that the ob
ject of the Pershing expedition Into Mexico
tho dispersal' of Villa and his band had
teen accomplished. (
The Funston recommendation has caused
dissatisfaction at the Stato Department,
where it Is admitted that It may complicate
the negotiations for a commission. The
Administration wants to keep the troops In
Mexico, so that they may have something
to trade on in the proposed negotiations. As
a result It is understood here that the State
Department has demanded that the Funston
report be sent back to the general at San
Antonio vrjtb instructions that it cannot b
considered and must be withdrawn,
Mexico Needs "Licking," Says Consul
Mexico will never havo a stable Govern
ment until it gets a "good licking-," accord
inr to Marcos G. Huldebro, Chilian Consul
at New Orleans, who Is at the Union
league, as the guest of Harry Sparhawk.
"Present conditions In Mexico aro deplor
able," ho said, "and, to call the present
regime a government Is absurd."
W. M. JOHNSTON IN
FINAL AT NEWPORT
v
Jap Star Gets Lead in New
port Final, Winning by
6-1 and 9-7
CHAMP WINS 3D AND 4TH
Johnston Comes Back Strong,
Taking Third and Fourth
Sets at 7-5 and G-2
Kumnitne cnptnrnl the fifth nnd ilecldlnr "ft
from Johnston, thcreb winning llir Cnslno Cnp.
The score or the lint ntt wni 0-7.
CASINO, Newport, It. I., Aur. 19. Ichlya
Ktim.iE.io, tho Japanese champion, got tho
Jump on 'William M. Johnston this morning
In tho final round for tho Casino Lawn Ten
nis Cup. Kumngne's third victory over Grif
fin yesterday boosted his Btock considerably ;
nevertheless, It wns not expected by tho
majority of experts that ho really would
have a chanco to win from tho national
F title holder.
When tho American and Oriental took
tho court to warm up, a brilliant Batherlns
of society lights adorned tho callcry. Tho
day wob perfect for tennis, Just hot enough
to allow tho players to get wnrmed up
qulcldy. Tho court, as a matter of course,
wns In perfect condition, Everything con
sidered. It wns nn Ideal day for tho great
match which has attained nlmost as much
promlncnco In tho tennis world as the
championships at Forest Hills.
Kumngao stnrtcd off with a rush, easily
taking his service. Johnston, ns usual, ap
peared to bo feeling out his opponent for a
posslblo weakness. Kumugno, on tho other
hand, got oil to a flying start and captured
tho opening set, nt 6-1, before tho big gal
lery realized what had happened.
Every ono expected that Johnston would
come back strong and take tho second set.
Ho did show much better form and began
to shoot over some of his speedy drives,
often passing tho llttlo Jap. But KumaEao
hung on Uko grim death, nnd by an exhibi
tion of fast footwork and cleverness rarely
seen on a tennis court Anally broke through
Johnston's scrvlco and captured the second
sctat 9-7.
Both men maintained their speed In the
third set. Kumagao began service and
won. Each by cleverly placed service shots
and speedy net cohering took their services
until 5-all was called. At this point, John
ston., by a scries of terrific drives, took tho
Jap oft his feet, winning the eleventh gnme.
Tho champion had no -trouble-In .winning,
his own servico and the third set was his
at 7-6.
point sconn.
(first set.)
ICumnsno r 2 4 7 S
Johnston 3 4 1 E 3
(second set.)
4310
1181
02-n24402005 10 24 7010
Johnston
44OB420-14443 840 6057
(third set.)
Johnston 44044442244 4 10 7
Kumagae .... 22471114400 0325
FOUIVTII SUT.
Johnston B 1 4 0 2 0 4 4320
KumaEae a 4 i i 4 4
Z Jii-
THREE HURT IN COLLISION
Auto Hits Ico Wagon Passengers in
Motor Thrown Out and In
jured Three men riding In an automobile were
Injured when the machine crashed Into an
Ice wagon at Twelfth and Vine streets to
day. The driver of the Ice wagon escaped
Injury.
Daniel Ward, 1938 West Somerset street,
was ths most seriously Injured. It Is
thought his skull was fractured, and he Is
In the Hahnemann Hospital. James Sharp,
Jr., of the same address, and Edward
Croak, 5760 Wayne avenue, driver of the
automobile, were discharged from the hos
pital after their injuries were dressed nnd
were placed under arrest by the police.
The accident occurred at 6:30 this morn
ing. William Thomas, a negro, of 1139 Vino
Btreet, was driving the wagon. Sharp and
Creak will be arraigned before Magistrate
Traiy.
CRUSHED TO DBATn BY BARREL
Driver of Beer Truck Killed While De
livering Order
Patrick McKeowri. driver of a truck for
a brewing company, was killed today when
a beer barrel fell on him as he was deliver
ing an order to a saloon at 24th and AVav
erly streets. Tho barrel, slipping from the
truck, crushed McKeown's head and Bhoul
dera beneath Its weight. He died In the
Polyclinic Hospital.
McKeown was 45 year old and lived at
13C9 Castle avenue.
EXPRESS OFFICE ROBBED
Four Packages Belonging to Hamilton
Watch Company Stolen
liANCASTER, Pa., Aug. 19. Four pack
ages belonging to the Hamilton Watch
Company were stolen today from the Adams
Express offlco. Two wero received on an
early train, tho others were to be srlpped.
All were left in a private, offlco of the ex
press company while the men on duty were
receiving goods from the train. It is be
lieved the loss is heavy,
New York Epidemic Shows Slight Gain
NEW YORK, Aug. 19 A slight increase
o the infantile paralysis epidemic devel
oped In the 24 hours ending at 10 a. m. to
day. Thero were 151 new cases and 34
deaths, as compared with 1J5 and 33, re
spectively yesterday. Since tho epidemlo
started there havo been 7006 cases and
1597 deaths.
HWAUOIBD'S NEW ATLANTA. OA., Termloal.
&uthwt lit Jttoutt. then. I
OrUan it
UBCVtt
8988. AM.
QUICK
DETROIT...,,. 'Q;ol
ATHLETICS, u P
PHIbM.....
CITiCIMHATI,.
WILSON'S TELEGRAM TO WESTERN RAIL HEADS
f
WASHINGTON, Aup. 19. The Ticsidcnt's telegram to Western
railroad presidents wns n3 follows: "Discussion of the matters In
volved in tho threatened railway cttlke Is still continuing-. It is
highly importnnt that I should personally confer with you or some
one authorized to represent you nt the eailiest possible moment.
Hope you can anangc niattcis so aa to be ahln to come to Washing
ton at once."
ALLEGED "DOPE" PEDDLERS HELD
Samuel Jaffc, 25 years oln, : 112 Quarry nttcet, alleged "king
ot dope pcddleis," nnd Jack Murphy, 30 years old, of the Quarry
street addles., weic held under $1000 ball each for a further hearing
by United States Commissioner Song this afternoon on a charge of
violating tl.o Hnn-ioon antl-natcotlc act. Both were m rested this
morning. Commissioner Long released on piobation Alphonse Na
uagna, 10 years old, of 1213 Katcr street, who Iins been arrested on ,
tiio same charge. '
G
SO NEW PARALYSIS CASES IN NEW JERSEY
TKEJ7TON, Aug. 10. New cases of infantile paralysis reported
to the Stato Dcpnitment of Health up to noon today brought the total
up to 1050 for tho State. Eighty new names weic sent In today, In
cluding thote from additional ccntois. The number of affected mu
nicipalities is now 102.
GALLINGERASKS WHY RUBLEE SERVES ON TRADE BOARD
, J' WASEINpTONAui" 10. Senator Callinger, Seuate, Bepubll
cau leader, this afternoon introduced a lesolutlou calling upon tlie
chairman of the federal Trade Commisaion to infoim the Senate by
what Hiilhotity Geoige 1?." Kublee, having been lejected by tho Senate,
is serving us a ineinbci of the commission. Senator Kern, the Demti-L-iatic
leader, objected to immediate ecnsidenttluu of1 the l evolution,
and it went over under the mica.
TILLMAN RAPS HUGHES FOR "DRAGGING UP SECTIONALISM"
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10. Senator Tillman said an tevoir to the
Senate today with a bitter denunciation of Republican candidate
Hughes for "dragging forth ath old blood and mud bespattered ban
ner of sectionalism and waving it over the heads of present genera
tions of Americans." Tillman said he could not leave for his homo
tonight feeling his work of the session nil done if he did not express
his sorrow and regret at Hughes's action.
WOMAN FLEES PARALYSIS QHARANTINEJ CAUGHT
SCRANTON, Fa., Aug. 10. Miss Leah -Isaacs, 22 yeais old,
bioko from quarantine at a house in Syracuse, N. Y., where there
is a case of infantile paralysis, came here on a passenger trnin yes
terday afternoon and went by trolley car to the home of her relative,
John Scrlbbens, health officer of Taylor. Today Syracuse health
authoiiticu wlied tho Taylor officials to detain and quarantine Miao
lenr.es. When they went to the Scribbens home they learned tiiat
Illfas Isaacs was visiting fi lends in thi3 city. They hastened neie,
took her back to Taylor and put the Scribbens home under quarantine.
MILK TOO CHEAP; JERSEY FARMERS SELL COWS
Farmers in Delaware township are selling their cows because they cannot get
more than 34 cents a. quart for milk wholesale, according to a leport submitted to
the Camden Board of Taxation. A falling off 6f J1383 in the personal property
assessment of tho township was noted in comparison with that of last year, .which
led to tho discovery that the cdWs are being- sold.
SENATE WORKS TO PASS COMPENSATION BILL TODAY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 19, The Senate today took up tho workmen's compensa
tion bill and hoped to pusji It to a vote before adjournment this afternoon. With
both parties favoring tho measuro, It Is doubtful if a rollcall would be asked when
it is placed on ita final passage. Senator Smith, of Georgia, in charge of tho bill,
predicted its passage In time to make way for the emergency revenue bill on Monday,
UNKNOWN SHIP SUNK IN FIGHT OFF NORWAY
CHRISTIANrA, Aug, 19. A steamship of unknown nationality was sunk off
Egersund late yesterday In battle with another steamship, also unidentified. The
victor sailed southward after tho battle. Both ships are believed ta have been
armed merchantmen.
FRENCH AVIATOR BAGS 14TH GERMAN AIRCRAFT
PARIS, Aug, 19. Sublieutenant Guynemer, of the French air corps, his shot
down two moro German aeroplanes in a sky battle oyer the Somme front, bringing
his total up to U victims. This latest exploit of tho champion aerial warrior of
France was officially announced today.
BRITISH AIRMEN FLY OVER BELGIUM
LONDON, Aug. 19. The British Admiralty today reported a daring flight by
naval aeroplanes over Belgium, which was mado yesterday. JJombs wero dropped
on vast heaps of ammunition that the Germans had gathered and Area were seen.
SELLEMONWEINSTEINOVITCHSKL, IN KENSINGTON
La Mott, in Cheltenham township, has lost one of Its business men. Ha Is a
ehoemaker. He never signed receipts for moneys received lust tagged on his
Initials. It was easier than writing W3 name Louis C. Sellemonwelnstelnovltchskl.
Ho has removed, with his family, to Kensington, and will continue the business at
that place.
NEWS
)
BRITISH MAKE
HALF-MILE GAIN
ON SOMME LINE
Hurl Back Germans for Big
gest Advance Since Of
fensive Opened
BIG GUN DUEL AT VERDUN
Invasion of Hungary Begun
With Slavs Three Miles
Into Plain
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined for Quick Heading
IWest Front Tho British, by a
terrific night assault, achieved
ono of greatest gains in tho battio
of tho Somme. Fully half n mile
measured the gain.' Tho western
outskirts of Gulllemont havo been
taken. Tho artillery duel, centering
at Verdun, has taken on its former
olercc.
2 Russian Front Tho Russians
havo resumed their offensive
operations on the Stokhod River
front, according to official advices
from Petrogrnd. Thoy have also in
vaded Hungary from tho Jablonitza
Carpathian region. , t
3 Balkan Front Tho Serbians
announce a repulse of tho Bui
gar offensive on a wido front, but
admit the occuaption of Fiorina by
the latter.
4 Italian Front Artillery is re-
ported active on the whole
front in today's official statement is
sued nt Rome. Tho Italians havo re
pulsed an Austrian attack on tho
Carso Plateau.
LONDON, Aug .19.
British troops hurled back tho German
lino north of the Somme last night in one
of the greatest gains made by the Allies
since the opening smash of tho great offen
sive. Tho gain wns fully half a mile. It la
officially stated.
Tho GcrmanB wero thrown back on prac
tically every Bcctor of a stx-mllo front ex
tending from n point south of Thlepval to
the point where tho British lines link with
tho French near Gulllemont.
Tho greatest British gain was scored
from tho Foureax "Wood eastward 'to the
junction point with tho French, tieneral
Hale reports that the British advanced on
a two-mllo front. In this region, penetrating
German trenches to a depth of i300 to 609
yards.
The capture of the western outskirts of
tho village of Gulllemont and important
advances north, northwest and cast of ths
village leave the Germans still clinging to
the ruins of the village in a deep pocket
and In danger of being cut off and sur
rounded. Tho Germans made determined counter
attacks during the night but were repulsed
except at ono point, where they gained a
llttlo ground. The British advance was
mado at various joints along a six-mile
front extending from a point northwest of
Oviliers and Thlepval, where the forward
rush of the British thrust deeply Into tho
Gorman lines around the salient at Thlep
val. East and southeast of Mouquet Farm
(southeast of Thlepval) the British ad
vanced 300 yards. Further east, everal
hundred yards of enemy trenches were cap
teured, between the Foreaux Wood and
the Bapaume-Albert highway, nn advance
that bright tho British lines closer to tho
fortified village of Martlnpulch, of the local
German strongholds.
Still further east, tho British drove tho
Germans from the western outskirts of
Glullemont and, pressing on northwest of
the town, captured hostile positions between
Delvllle Wood and Gl'nchy, capturing, also,
German positions In the orchards north ot
Longueval.
GIANT CANNON ROAR
WITH OLDEN FURY ON
ENTIRE VERDUN LINE
PARIS, Aug. 19,
AH of the village of Fleury on the Vefdua
front is now'in the hands of the French,
it was offlclally announced by the War
Office" today. The artillery duel on tho en
tire Verdun front has reopened with all Its
olden vigor.
There was violent fighting on both tho
Somme front and in the sector ot Verdun
last nlsht.
Powerful attacks were delivered by the
Germans in both zones, but all wero re
pulsed, the communique states.
At Verdun the Germans made their
greatest effort Jo tho west of the $Ieus
Hlyer, delivering two attacks against tho
French salient at Avocourt
In the meanwhile, the French forces, that
captured the greater part of Fleury pn
Thursday night, delivered a blow against
Continued aa l't Vaar, Ctlunut X1r
A Suggestion
OKDERVour Evening ledger
Instead of Ticking It up"
at tho newsstand or from a.
newsboy. We make this sug
gestion In your Interest, and la
tho interest of your carrier,
newsdealer or newsboy. Tba
shortage ot newsprint paper
lias made It necessary to
abolish "returns." After Sep
tember 1 newsdealers, carrier
and newsboys will order only
such newspapers aa they havo
orders for.. This applies to
all Philadelphia newspapers.
Order your Evening Xedgtr
dellvered to your home. Ualta
sure of It. Get It dully.
Place your order t4r
" Mt
-ii
A
! S rf
