ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, AUGUST 19, 191G y
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 93
EMPLOY
P
DEOTS
THE
AH:.PRES
ES ACCEP
CMEDERHG
WHILE MAKING 111 STATEMENT
IF
IT
0 0
TO
1
Hughes SaysNationalAims Transcend LocaWifferences
J& J& J& j& j& J& &
ARMY APPROPRIATION RUT IS VFTOFn ILL NOT TAKE
11JL11TA A 111 JL 1IU1 llliiilUXl 1U T ill J UMS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
WASHINGTON. August IS. Presi
dent Wilson's plan for settlement of the
threatened nation-wide railroad strike
was accepted today by the represen
tatives of the employes and taken un
der consideration by the officials of
the railroads with many indications
mat they would record it tomorrow.
The word came from the managers to
night, however, that tiiey had reached
no definite decision.
With the situation thus apparently
at a deadlock the only hope in the
situation that the railroad officials
might suggest counter proposals form
ing the basis of a settlement, or that
one side or the other might recede
tri in its present position.
Thirty-one presidents and ranking
officials of the great railroads received
from the president this afternoon his
plan for the adoption of an eight-hour
day. regular pro rata pay for overtime,
and creation of a federal commission
to investigate collateral issues. They
told him they would like to consider
the question, and would report back
tomorrow with the committee of man
agers which has been conducting nego
tiations. At the same time the general com
mittee of 640 representatives of the
employes were approving the presi
dent's plan by a large majority and
soon after the railroad officials left the
White House the four heads of the
brotherhMds delivered to the president
a letter notifying him of the vote.
While the railroad officials would
make no formal statement, they re
vealed clearly their opposition to Mr.
W'iNon's plan, and indicated thiyt they
would press further their offer to ar
bitrate all the points at issue.
In spite of these developments, it
was reiHjrted the officials might sug
gest a counter proposal based on the
acceptance of an eight-hour day and
arbitration of all other points, instead
of the investigation by a federal com
mission proposed under the president's
plan. It was stated positively, how
ever, that the officials had reached no
definite decision on their future course.
In case the president finds no hope
of settlement during his conference
with the railroad officials tomorrow,
he probably will summon to Washing
ton mime of the powerful financiers of
the country serving as directors of th
railroads. Administration officials
said tonight he had by no means given
up hoi of effecting a settlement and
was determined that it shall be reached
-P
n
I KINUMAiM MINtrt UICS
AS RESULT OF ROCK FALL
The president urged them to dem
onstrate a spirit of concession and to
assist him in settling the controversy.
Tonight the railroad officials had an
other long conference at their hotel.
Kmpioyes' representatives held two
meetings during the day, one of sever
al hours, for speechmaking and ballot
ing on the president's proposition, and
the other, a short one, for announce
ment of the result of the vote.
Some of the presidents expressed the
conviction tonight that the negotiations
with the White House would not be
concluded in a few days, and that each
point involved would be thoroughly
considered by the executive heads of
the roads before any definite position
Is taken. While the presidents have
kept In touch with the situation as it
developed here, it was said tonight that
their attention had been largely per
functory and they did not have com
prehensive first-hand information o
the negotiations.
As one railroad head pointed out to
night the questions in issue involve the
operation of 50,1)00 miles of railroad,
one-fourth that of the entire world,
and their solution may have a far
reaching effect on laboring conditions
throughout the United States. With
400.000 railroad men assured of an
eight-hour day, some of the operators
feel it would be a question of only a
short time until laboring men in some
of the great Industrial concerns of the
country would be making demands for
an eight-hour day also. Echoes of this
feeling are expected to reach the
White House as this view is spread
throughout the country.
Railroad men present at today's con
ference, and White House officials, de
clared tonight that the president had
not talked of government ownership of
railroads as a possibility in the future
in case of a strike.
Persons in a position to be familiar
with the attitude of the officials out
lined the position of the railroads to
night as follows:
"The position of the railroads is that
they are standing out for the great
principle of arbitration and that thty
cannot surrender this principle under
the threat of a strike or under pressure
from any other source."
There never was a time during the
day that the president's projiosal could
not have been rushed through the em
ployes' meeting by a big majority,
brotherhood leaders were in no hurry
to nave a vote taken for several rea
sons. They wanted the railroad
KINGMAN, Ariz., Aug. IS W.
A. i'eterson, a middle aged, un
married miner, died today of in
juries sustained as a result of be
ing pinioned seven hours against
the side of a shaft on the Too foot
level of the Tennessee mine at
Chloride by a fall of rock and tim
bers. When rescued, I'eterson.
who conversed all the while as GO
miners were carefully removing
1 the rock and timbers, appeared
I to lie only slightly hurt and ate a
hearty meal after the rescue. He
however, soon afterward began to
! show the effects of his experience j
and died in u short time. ' I
(
DOES NOT FAVOR
EXEMPTION Of
11 I
MORE GAINS IN
SOMME REGIDN:
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Assaults by liritish and French
forces against Uei man positions north i h,w, .,..,i' ,ul,
tween the house and the senate.
RETIRED ME
Republican A. P.' Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18 The army
appropriation bill was unexpectedly
vetoed today by President Wilson be
cause he would not accept certain
provisions in the revision of the ar
ticles of war, forced into the bill by
the house conferees and commonly said
In army circles to be in the interest of
certain retired officers "at outs with
the army."
Chairman Hay, of the house mili
tary committee, at once re-introduced
the bill with the entire section re
vising the articles of war stricken out
and the declaration that no revision
at all would go through with the bill
In this congress.
Chairman Chamberlain, of the (fen
ate military committee, announced that
the senate would re-insert the pro
vision approved by the president and
the war department, but stricken out
in the house, and that the situation
FEAR EPIDEMIC MA Y
ADVANCE NEXT YEAR
of the Somme in France have resulted
In the gaining ot additional ground
by the attackers, according to the
British and French war offices. The
French advance was in and around
Mauiepas, the scene of much hard
fighting during the last few weeks,
and the British gain was in the di
rection of Ginchy and Guillemotit, near
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. With a
warning that unless measures are
found for its suppression, the infantile
paralysis epidemic may advance next
summer to stales not appreciably af
fected, and the national conference of
health officers adjourned today after
adopting recommendations for control
of the plague and naming a standing
commission to study Its causes.
Co-operation among federal, state
and local health authorities toward
curbing the epidemic, was emphasized
as imperative in resolutions adopted
to stamp it out.
Advisury local quarantine rules,
adapted largely from the New York
City code, were approved. Assistant
Surgeon General W. C. Kucker, who
presided over the conference, made
something we don't know a great deal
about and the public sympathizes with
our efforts to do what ever we can,
with the limited knowledge we have.
We can't afford to leave any stone
unturned.
"The great bulk of traveling public,
presumably not exposed, should not
be hampered until we know which
persons are actually disease carriers."
lr. Glenn Andrews of Alabama said
the conference was groping in the
dark in promulgating even advisory
suggestions.
"I'm going home and tell my folks
that we don't know a thing about it,"
said Dr. Andrews.
In recommending restriction of
travel of children under 16 from
known epidemic areas, the conference
expressed its belief that no more ad
PART IN FIGHT
IN CALIFORNIA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ' FRANCISCO, Aug., 18.
Charles K. Hughes told an audience
here tonight that he had no concern
with local differences in politics, but
"the great national aim" he had in
view transcended all possible local
differences, and that he regarded the
republican party as "reunited, in
spired by lofty traditions," and de-.
oted to the accomplishment of great
achievements.
Before making his address Mr.
Hughes had conferences with leaders
over differences in California between
progressives and republicans. In his
address he said:
"I come here a the spokesman of
the national republican party. With
local differences I have no concern.
The great national aim I have in view
transcend all possible local differ-
the following statement tonight:
"We have admitted frankly and present limited knowledge
freely to the public that we have methods of transmission.
vanced step toward interstate quar- ences and we are tosether. re-united.
amine measures should be taken with inspired by the loftiest traditions of
of the
The tangle threatens to delay the
adjournment of congress and incident
ally the preparedness program meas
ures. The bill as re-introduced Is now in
the house and there is an agreement
to take it up and exiedite the conti
nental army and universal training
GULF STOI
ON TEXAS
I Opposition to the plan, which was
j scattered, always was good-natured
I and most of those who objected dis
cussed effects on their Immediate lo-
both sides now here leave Washington
In their informal statements the ntil
pad t.ffici.-ils insisted on arbitration on
the ground that if they gave in this
me it would mean the abandonment
of the principles of arbitration and be
cause they feared If they granted the
eight-hour day with its consequent
added expenses without resort to arbi
tration it would prejudice any appeal
they might make later to the inter
slate commerce commission for higher
freight rates.
On the surface the threatened strike
aplieared nearer today than at any
time since the negotiations ut the
White House begun, but administration
officials continued to believe Home con
cessions would be made and that an
a-.'!-! ement eventually would be
reached.
The group of railroad presidents and
officials who came here in answer to
an invitation from the president con
ferred with h'm less than an hour.
the southern end of their section ofIllami Bml ,np Hl,i,stitution of national
the Somme front. The Anglo-1-rench reorganization, which it i-
attack, London says, took place along )llSmj
the whole line from Pozieres to the. The' arucles of war have not been
Soramw. . j revised In a hundred years and are
The gains reported by Pans and t ,e B1uy deficient for dealing
London were In the center of the tier- i with conditions which growth of the
man positions on the Somme front and Mrmy aj development of the nation
mark another step In the Anglo- j rp.1ujre.
French advunce toward Combies. j included in the revision worked out
French troops gained more ground in 1V congress over the objection of the
the village of Maurepas, alter the president was a provision which ex
fUopping of the German counter at-I ..mpted retired officers from courts
tacks near the v illage. Cavalry hill. ' martial and army discipline, if not ac
soi.the.ist of the village, was carried ' mniiy from nrmv control, and placed
by assault and the French position on idem under the Jurisdiction of the civil
the Maurepas-Clery road also was ex- j authorities.
tended. I The presirient in his veto, however.
r.ritish troops advanced successfully made no reference to this phase of the
calities rather than probable general
railroads.
Rousing cheers, however, greeted the
final approval of the plans. F.ven
greater secrecy surrounded the move
ments of the employes today than yes
terday when it seemed that they hud
taken every possible precaution to safe
guard their deliberations. All con
nected with the meeting refused at
first upon leaving the hall, shortly
after noon, even to commit them
in tli: region of Ginchy and Guille
mont and seized more German posi
tions. London mentions no gain on
any other part of this front. The An-Klo-French
forces captured more than
4o prisoners In their advance.
The French offensive continues on
the right hunk or the Meuwe. in the
Verdun region, and Paris chronicles
the taptiire of two fortified redoubts
northwest of the Tiaumont work. Pro
gress also is reported for the French
east of the Vaux-Chapitre wood.
lierlin reports attacks by the
" I French and British forces north of the
"'7, ''' oeiner a vote nau oeen s-rnime. but says all of them were re-
... . wi. nit; lliuinrr- , ,.,.1.. ,.. tha t ah
hood officials said the vote was under
i the direction of Martinpuich.
. . . ' IIIO U (I H WWII Ut tHUI llliutlltll,
way but uncompleted. Half an hour j French gain around Fleury in the
Verdun region is admitted.
There has been little activity on the
later the canvassing board, which had
been left In the hall, finished its count
and reported to the four brotherhood
jtuuturn ? ..,. n n.,.r,l i nu tn lh of-
heads at their hotel. The result was , i(.jal rep0rt!,; Most, of the fighting
After Mr. Wilson had exm-esscd his ' " L" " " "T has been In the Carpathian mountain
... ,,. . wneii ii rei-onveneu ai p. m. 1 lie
rnpinn u; n era limn inn k iuk mitin hiiii
C ;r.urS theAustro'-German. ,im to have
n- spokesman, informed the president ollnTe ve n 1 h'1' -T? rnade '" advances. Pctro-
that the officials present could speak JVm? ,ialil"ia' "Ut W'th "
only for their indivi.li.al roads, and that "L" W . ? ,h h lyp", "" . .
the managers' committee was the only "w? 1 1. 5 , " "'"M H, rUn r"ort'' ,he cal't,"'e "Vh
..lv that could agree to the pro- handed it to the president. I Greek town of Fiorina from Serl.ian
rceioie leaving iney again aSSUren : li.w.. Thlo mi.v.mcnt nmliuhlv s
agree to the pro
posals.
The president was told, however,
that the plan would be given further
consideration and a report made to
him tomorrow. In a matter of such
far-reaching importance, the officials
said they believed there should be no
busty decision.
rum mil any news regaruing tne nego- jn answer to the recent entente
tiations must crime from him and upon pied activity on tho Greek front,
returning to their hotel, declined posi- Artillery bombardments are taking
uveiy io uiscuss wi resuu or tneir ue- ,iu(e on the Aiistrian-lturian tront
uo-iauoii.
The president was preparing to go
(Continued on Page Five)
GRIED LABOR BILL IS UP TO
PRESIDENT FOR SIGNATURE
around Gori.ia. Home olaims on ad
vance for the Italians In the
Trentino.
German Positions Captured
LONDON, Aug. PJ. Further Ger
man posftlons in the region of Ginchy
and Guillemont have been captured
by the British forces operating in
the Somme region, according to the
official communication issued shortly
before midnight. More than 200 pris
oners were taken by the liritish dur
ing Friday.
In the recent operations around Ka-
tia, east of the Suez canal, the losses
sustained by the Turkish force were
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire i the date of the t,i-Mr. o.-,..,i estimated at about 9,000 men, includ-
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. Without I Opposition to the bill was led by prisoners, or virtually one-nair tne
debate or record trote the child labor 80uthern congressmen and its sponsors f"rct"' ancorditiK to a further report
d.bate or record fote tne cniia moor charf?((j cotton mi ownera wltL b , on the Egyptinn operations given out
bill was accepteu t,y tne nouse touay the principal objectors fContlnuT-d on Page Two)
wun tne senate amenument ana pui
on its way to become law with Presi
dent Wilson's signature.
It represents the results of years of
struggle in congress between forces
urging the conservation of child life
and those opposing it on many grounds,
chiefly that it was a question for the
states and not for the federal govern
ment. It would not have become a law at
this session of congress had-not Pres
ident Wilson, after the democratic cau
cus, decided to eliminate it from the
administration platform, Visited the
capitol and insisted on its conclusion.
As amended by the senate and now
perfected it prohibits shipments be
tween the states of all products of any
establishment which employs child
labor, it bars products of any mine or
quarry employing children under IS,
and products of any mill, cannery.
workshop, factory or manufacturing
establishment employing children un
der 14 or which employs children be
tween 14 and 1U more, than eight hours
a day, more than six days a week or
earlier than S o'clock in the morning
or later than 7 o'clock in the evening.
It becomes effective one year after
it nation
President Wilson's veto message fol
lows: To the House of Representatives:
"I have carefully considered t lie bill
entitled 'An act making appropriation
for Hip army for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1 1 1 7. and now take the iiberty
of returning it with my objections to
Its approval.
"The bill constitutes an essential part
of the legislation providing for the
military establishment of the country
and wisely and ge nerously provides for
the reorganization of the agencies of
our national defense, and it is with
genuine reluctance that 1 d-iay its be
coming law by BUKK?titinK the elimina
tion of one of the provisions which has
been embmlied in the very necessary
and imiKirtant revision of the articles
of war which has lieen added to it.
"The existing articles of war are un
doubtedly archaic. They have not un
dergoiie comprehensive revision for
more than loo years. They do not al
ways furnish the means to meet
promptly and directly, the needs of
discipline under modern conditions
and many contingencies now frequent
ly arise in the government of the mili
tary forces which were not contem
plated when the present code wus for
mulated
"The relations of the government o
the Cnlted States have greatly broad
ened within the 100 years. We now
have insular possessions and national
Interests far away from our continental
shores. Moth the practice of arms and
the theory of discipline have undergone
many modern changes and a manifest
need for such a revision of these ar
ticles as Is here presented has long
existed.
"I, therefore, the more keenly regret
to find, in the proposed revision of the
articles of war, a provision to which
1 cannot give my approval.
"The original, established the retired
list of the army, referred to the per
sonnel therein Included as only par-
Believe Votes for Women
Coming Soon In England
DROWN
TAKES HEAVY ILL
T: BELIEVE TEN
GREAT PROPERTT LOSS
to any tidal wave that might approach
from the gulf. One channel connects
Corpus Christi bay from the open gulf,
on each side of which are situated
Port Aransas and Aransas Pass, re
spectively. What damage has been
done there, however, is imjHissible to
estimate, as telegraph communication
was lost early in tile afternoon.
Railroad property in this section has
not been seriously damaged. Corpus
Christi is connected with the main
land from the "toe" of the nonins-H
phine and te.egraph lines. Tne iauei
failed at about t::ti) o'clock, while
telephone communication continued
thirty minutes longer. Up to that
time, no serious damage had been
done to the causeway proper.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
COKPL'S CHKiSTI. Texas. Aug. 18.
By Long Distance Telephone' to Dal-
as, i ex.) 1. lowing ut a .0 mile an
hour velocity, the forerunner of the
ropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico.
was felt tonight as It approached the
Texas coast at this point. Mrownsville
And on the intermediate plains. Fore-
asts by the local weather bureau
were that the crest of the storm would
each here about midnight, and that
i I-'-' mile wind could be expected,
put few details of -e r-. . - v. nr'-
onth or north of here had ueei. c-
eived early tonight. In Corpus
.'hnsti, however, the gale had carried
almost everything movable before it.
in its wake it had left demolished
summer cottages along the beach
front here, thousands of dollars dam
age to buildings ill the business sec-
ion and a heavy sea running in tor-
pus Christ! bay.
Waves whipped over the beach in
the northern part of the city, hearti
ng small craft and carrying upon the
shore debris from a score of docks
ind small bathing pavilions. Lloyd's
pier, one ol the largest pleasure re
Horts on this section uf the coast.
which juts out over the water l.oOu
feet, had been almost completely de
molished by 6 o'clock tonight.
Thus r.ir there has been no loss of
life, according to reports. Ample
warning of the storm, it was said, had
iven all residents an opmirtunity to
prepare for the approaching hurrl
?ane. No further word had been received
here at 6 o'clock of the fate of the
rew of the. steamer Pilot boy, which
was sunk in the Gulf of Mexico today
in the tropical storm. It was reported,
nowever. inat inree men or n e c.e Reports Slight Damage
or twelve nau oeen wasneu asno.e al , BROW.SVILLK, Tex.. Aug. IS. (By
rorx ransas - ' ''-''"' Rail, to the Associated Press at San
The city of Corpus Christ! is situ- Antonio, Tex.)-Damage here from
aiea on a oooi-sua.ieo " the hurricane was slight up to G p. m..
miles from he ren Kt .If but s ur-j & restchert a velocity
rounded on three sides , by t "H'us sj mile8 an hour durinK tne day.
Christi and Nueces bays On the Urometer ma.rked 9.27 during
other side of the bay are Mustang and' r
Padre Islands, forming a breakwater (Continued on Page Two)
our historic party and devoted to the
accomplishments of great achieve
ments upon which must rest our
enduring prosperity as a nation."
Speaking of preparedness Mr.
Hughes said:
'T desirei that wo should take no
narrow view. We live in a very criti
cal period. There is a new world in
process of formation. Out of the
great European conflict will issue a.
new Europe but there must be in a
very true sense a new America to
meet the exigencies of that time. It
must be an America that has found
itself; it must be an America that
takes a long look ahead not content
with the prospects of a few years,
even of a decade or a score of years,
hut an America planning for the
twentieth century.
"We must conserve the very bases
r.f our prosperity in conserving wo
men and children. We must endeavor
to have a contented America: anl
America contented because of the
prevalence of just dealing between
man and man, aided by wise laws.
"We cannot afford in looking "into
tho future to fail to take ara-ount of
tho cause of discontent and of un
rest. We do not need to have a pe
rennial agitation in this country. All
that is needed is n f'-rn ?.- of co
,...r.t; ... - .1 . !' - .ir....!;- in our
thoT-iO
Believe Ten Drowned
OALVKSTO.V. Tex. Aug. 18. The
steamer Pilot lioy sunk in the Gulf of
Mexico outside of Corpus Christi bay
today, probably carried ten men to
their death. The crew numbered 13
when the steamer left Galveston yes
terday afternoon, it was said. Three
of the men aboard were washed ashore
at Port Aransas, alive, according to
reports. aaati9
The gulf coast storm was not seri
ously felt at Galveston. Thousands
thronged the sea wall boulevard today
watching great waves break on the
riprap at the foot of the barrier. The
maximum wind velocity was forty
miles, reached shortly after noon. The
maximum tide was four feet. The
wind velocity was decreasing tonight
and normal conditions were expected
to prevail tomorrow.
(Continued on Page Five)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Aug.. 18. The present
week brought within the range of
practical politics a reform, which
many of Its advocates feared the
war world postpone, perhaps for a
generation the right of women to
vote. Tho strongest forcr, against
the realization of woman si ff rage In
the years Immediately preceding the
war was the determined opposition
or t'renuer Asquitn, hence great sur
prise was caused by his virtual con
version when he said in the house
of commons on Monday that tho
undertaking of new franchise and
registration reforms In the midst of
a great war was too complex and
controversial a problem and when he
implied that any new bill for fran-
Francis Joseph
Has Birthday and
Berlin Rejoices
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
P.EKLIN. (via London,) . Aug. 18.
The birthday of Emperor F'rancls
Joseph of Austria-Hungary was cele
brated here today on a large scale in
military and diplomatic circles. The
celebration began with a service In St.
Hedwlg's church at noon, which was
attended by the Austro-Hungarian
diplomatic corps and many Austro-
Hungarlan officers stationed here. The
Germans attending the services were
headed by Dr. von Bethmann-Hollwog.
the Imperial chancellor, and Dr. Karl
Helfferich, the minister of the in
terior. ' i k-S
The neutrals attending were Ameri
can Ambassador James W. Gerard and
the American naval and military at
taches and the Swedish and Chinese
diplomatic corps.
The city Is gay with flags and bunt-
the natlonl cause durinK the war has- Ing. The German press is warm in
removed the last obstacle to their its expressions or congratulations on
political recognition. the emperor's 88th birthday.
chise reforms In the future must, of
necessity. Include wojnen.
The premier's announcement is
talked on all sides ns meaning that
women will have the vote bfore an
other general election is fought, ex
cept In tho unlikely event of an elec
tion being forced on the country be
fore the war ends.
According to the Nation there have
ben rimibir conversations among men
of great nfluence and although Earl
Curzen still remains a strong oppon
ent of the women's cause, together
with some other ministers, men of all
pnrtio realize the woman' display ot
capacity and willingness to help In
SHIPPING BILL PASSES SENATE
IN SLIGHTLY- MODIFIED FORM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 18. The ad
ministration shipping bill creating a
hipping board and appropriating juo,-
000,000 for its use in government pur
chase or operation of ships was passed
by the senate late today by a strict
party vote of 38 to. 21. It already had
passed the house in a slightly different
form.
An effort by Senator P.orah to at
tach the immigration bill to the meas
ure as a rider was defeated, 22 to 37.
Passage of the bill paved the way
for consideration of tne revenue bill
beginning next week and revived the
hope of administration leaders that the
legislative program mignt oe com
pletely cleared for adjournment by
September first.
Several important amendments were
agreed to Just before the final vote,
among them one by Senator Hoke
Smith, which would reduce the salary
of the shipping board members from
$10,000 to $7,500 a year. Other amend
ments passed included one by Senator
Fletcher, which would authorize the
president to seek aajustment of for
eign discrimination ngainst American
shipping through diplomatic relations.
Another by Senator Thomas wouia
authorize the treasury to withhold
clearance from masters of vessels who
deliberately refuse to accept freight
from American citizens without satis
factory reasons.
Chairman Simmons, of the finance
committee, said tonight he thought the
revenue bill could be disposed of by
next Saturday. It will be called u
Monday and republicans have assured
the chairman their opposition speeches
will occupy only two or three days
Tomorrow the senate will debate and
probably pass the workmen's compen
aation bill.
our constitutional
.i upon
ucm is
hich
haed.
"There is a new frurit. I believe.
broad in the land. There is a dis
position to take account of just giev-
ances and to provide reasonable' rem
edies.
We can have not only a humani
tarian outlook, which is absolutety
essential because It is right from a
human standpoint and because it is
necessary from an economic stand
point."
Mr. Hughes repeated his tariff
iews and his pledge that no one
would "put over anything" for pri
vate gain at public expense in tariff
adjustment if he could help it.
"I do propose, however," ne said,
that we shall have' a constructive
tariff policy which will foster, not
cripple; which will build up, not d"-
trov: which will count American
achievement honorable and not some
thing to be reduced: which will set
the X'nited States ahead, worthy of
competing in this economic strug-gle
with any nation of earth.
The nominee reiterated his views on
preparedness and assailed the admin
istration for vaccilatmg in respect to
preparedness and for failure) to pre
pare for the Mexican crisis.
'Mixing politics and military prep
aration is the worst thing that can
happen to a nation," he tniii.
Mr. Hughes said he favored an.
army of citizens trained by the fed
eral government. Of the navy Mr.
Hughes said:
"I am Informed on high authority
that our ships are undermanned and
our supplies inadequate. Our organi-
ration is not what it should be. t
1o not think that tho administration
of that great department of the gov
ernment reflects credit upon tho
American people.
"These who are interested In pre
paredness are not simnly content tn
studying lists of battleships. They
know the quality of our organization,
the capacity of our leadership. It Is
important in this country that we
have patriotism rot simply in decla
mation, but in efficiency of govern
ment. "When I read of the' hundreds of
millions appropriated for militarv and
naval purposes I am not satisfied. I
want to know how that monup,- is
spent. I want to know whether we
(Continued from Page Three)
Soldiers Ask Damages for
Being Private Guard's Target
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., Aug.. IS. Ser
iteants Harry Pittson and Robert H.
Martin, and Private John. O. Regoya,
i.ll of company F. Fourteenth infan
try, have filed suit in the superior
court of Cochise county at Tomb
stone, against the Bisbee-Naco Wat
er Company. They ask five thou
sand dollars each for injuries sus
tained when they were shot by Wil
liam Humphries, a guard employed
by the company, at its plant in
Nam, at two o'clock on the morning
.of June 22, 1910.
Company P had been detailed to
guard the plant It Is alleged that
Humphries . had not been notified
that the soldiers were coming. As
they approached the pump house the
watchman opened fire killing Walter
E. Paul and wounding the other three
soldiers.
D. A. Richardson, attorney for the
three sold'ers, said today that as
soon as an administrator for the
estate of Paul had been appointed, he
will bring suit in behalf of Paul's
parents, who reside in Meidan,
Washington, against the water company.
