c
4
WEATHER
Arizona: Saturday
generally fair.
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Aug. 9, 25.40.
Associated Press Special Leaiad Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, AUGUST 19, 1916.
vnozimv 'xiwiom rv rivr rrNTc
VOL. 13, NO. 72.
I
'-
J
V
'
.i
.1
i
i
i
i
HA
DD
VETOED BY WILSON A N LI IS
MMEDIftTELYRESNTBODUCED
President Takes Exception to
a Revision of the Articles
of War and Declines to Sign
Bill for the Army.
MEASURE IS AT
ONCE REINTRODUCED
Underlying motive for the Re
vision Is Said to Have
Caused Action. Retired Of
ficers Would be Affected.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Aug. 18 The army
appropriation was unexpectedly vetoed
today by President Wilson because he
would not accept certain provisions
in me revision oi me I
forced into the bill by the House con-
ferees and commonly said in army I
circles to be in the interest of certain j
retired officers, "at outs with the ,
army."
Chairman Hay of the House military
Se bin with the amendment revising
the articles of war striken out and the British gain was in the direction
the declaration that no revision at all jf Ginchy and Guillemont, near the
would get through with the bill in j southern end of their section of the
this Congress. Chairman Chamber-' Somme front.
lain, of the Senate military committee, I The Anglo-French attack, London
announced that the Senate would re-1 8ays, took place a?ong the whole line
insert the revision of the articles of from Pozieres to the Somme.
the war clause and that the situation j The gains reported by Paris and
had resolved itself into a contest be-1 London were in the center of the
tween the Senate and House on one I German positions on the Somme front
hand and Mr. Hay on the other. and mark another step in the Anglo
The tangle threatens to delay tho French advance toward Combles.
adjournment of Congress, and. In- j French troops gained more ground in
cidentaMy, completion of the prepar-' the village of Maurepas. after the
edness program as well as to hold up J stopping Of the German counter at
appropiiations for the army increases j tacks nearnhe village. Calvary Hill,
and all the extra expenses involved in , southeast of the village, was carried
the Mexican service.
The bill as reintroduced now is in
the House military committee and : tended.
there is an agreement to take it up ! British troops advanced successfully
and expedite the continental army J in the region Of GlneTny and Guille
and universal training plans, and the mont and seized more German po.si
substitution of national guard re- j tions. London mentions no gain on
organization which it had. The ar- J any other part Of this front. The
tides of war have not been revised j Anglo French forces captured more
in a hundred years and are said to j than 400 prisoners in their advance,
be sadly deficient for dealing with The French offensive continues on
conditions which the growth of the the right bank of the Meuse, in the
army and development Of the nation . Verdun region, and Paris chronicles
require. The war department is e the capture Of two fortified redoubts
pecially anxious for change to enabl" j northwest of the Thiaumont work,
army officers to deal adequately ith j Progress also is reported for the
problems arising during the present French east of the Vaux-Chapitre
Mexican service. i woOd.
Included in the revision worked out j Berlin reports attacks by the French
by Congress, over the objection of ' and British forces north of the Somme
the President, the war department 1 but says all of them were repulsed,
was a provision which exempted re- except one. by the British in the di
tired officers from court martial and ' rection of Martinpuich. A French gain
army discipline. If not actually from ; atOund Fleury in the Verdun region,
army control and placed them undei jis admitted.
the jurisdiction Of the civil courts. It j There has been little activity on
is common understanding among army j the eastern front, according to the
officers that the section covered the official reports. Most of the fighting
case of a certain retired officer, for '
merly regarded as a t.'ower in shap- region where both the Russians and
ping military legislation, who was j the Austi'o-Germans claim to have j
preparing to write a book and hesitat- 'made some advances. Petrograd says J
ed to do it while liable to discipline, the Austro-Germans are attacking in"!
The President in his veto, made no'Galicia but with no success.
reference t'o this phase of the situa-1 The Teutonic allies have taken the j
tion. ! offensive on the Freco-Ssrbian fron-
SHIP BILL PASSES SENATE.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. The ad
ministration shipping bill creating a
shipping board and appropriating
1 50,000.000 for its use in government
ship or operating ships, was passefl
by the Senate late today by a strict
party vote of 38 to 21. It already had
passed the House in a slightly dif
ferent form.
An effort by Senator Borah to at
tach the immigration bill to the meas
ure as a rider, was defeated 22 to 37.
FRANZ JOSEPH'S BIRTHDAY.
(By Review Leased Wire)
BERLIN. Aug. 18. (via London)
The birthday of Emperor Francis
Joseph of Austria-Hungary, was cele
brated here today on a large scale.
The celebration began with a service
In St. Hedwlg's church at nrfon, which
was attended by the Austro Hungarian
diplomatic corps and many Austro
Hungarian officers stationed here. The
Germans attending the service were
headed by Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg,
the chancellor, and Dr. Karl Helffer
Ir h. the minister of the Interior. The
Otners present e,e . ... r...,.
. i . ,t,n Tnp1,lult nnl
bassador. HaVkl
PhA anil the Hill-
garian minister, Rizow. The neutrals
attending were American Ambassador
James Gerard and the American naval
and military attaches, and the Swed
ish and Chinese diplomatic corps,
OF I BILL
E
BY ENGLISH
Western Allies Push Ahead
in Their Advance Against
the Germans, little Activity
Had on Two Fronts.
(By Review Leased Wire)
Assaults by British and French
forces against German positions north
, 41, o o i. (Vo. hv result-
""
ed in the gaining of additional ground
Dy the attackers, according to the
Briish and French war offices. The
cv o.u-anre was in and around
the scene of much hard
fitting during the last few weeks and ,
by assault ana me r rencn pub.uun u
!... f ............ "!.. mnA olcn u'na UY.
the Maurepas-Clery road also was ex
has been in the Carpathian Mountain
tier, north of Sa?oniki, and Berlin re-
! ports the capture of the Greek town
'of Fiorina from Serbian troops. This
I movements pi'jbably is in answer to
the recent entente allied activity on
the same front
1
ASSAULTS
FRENCH
Artillery bombardments are taklnff j ALL WIRES DOWN,
place on the Austro-Italian front DALLAS. Tex., Aug. 18. Telegraph
around Gorizia. Rome claims an art- j com pan Ian at seven o'clock tonight re
vance for the Italians in the TrentinV). I (Continued on Page 2)
Women's Suffrage May Be Granted In
. 1X7
Great Britain During the r resent War
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, Aug. 18. The present
week brought within the range
of practical politics a reform, which
many of its advocates feared the war
would postpone for a generation the
right of women to vote. The strong
est force against the realization of
woman suffrage in the years imme
diately preceding the war was the de
termined opposition of Premier As
quith. Hence great surprise was
caused by his virtual conversion when
he said in the house of commons on
Monday that the undertaking of new
franchising and registration reforms
in the midst of a great war was too
. , nrnM,.m
I ' -
and when he implied that any new Dill
for franchise reforms in the future
must, of necessity, include women.
The premier's announcement is tak
en on all sides as meaning that wom-
ILLE
BR01SH
F
Gulf Coast Wind. Racine; at '
from 70 to SO MUes an
Hour Breaks Communica- ,
tion With Brownsville. I
FEAR IS FELT FOR
LARGE ARMY STORES!
CENTER 0
IWIC
SIM
Soldiers' Quarters and Tents , Tariff , Preparedness and Sun
Thought Leveled to Ground dry Matters Covered by
No Communication With ;
Gulf Foints to be Had.
(By Review Leased Wire)
cam jVTnvin TVv An? IS
United States soldiers and national
guardsmen stationed at Fort Brown
have been driven from their quarters
and have taken refuge in the city hall j
and other public buildings
ville on account of the
:t Browns-1
gulf coast
-torn, which is striking that section
tonight, according to meagre reports
received 'over the army wireless at
Fort Sam Houston from Fort Brown
tonight
A terrific and destructive wind, ac
cording to this report, has wrought
havOc in Brownsville and in military
camps. Those troops which took i
refuge in the court house were the,
Illinois. Iowa ana Virginia regnueuu..
They took tv0 days' rations. All
wires to Brownsville are down and
communication except over the army
wireless is impossible.
STORM ABATING.
SAM ANTONIO, Aug. 18 At 9 :
o'clock tonight General Funston re-!
ceived wireless message from Gen
eral James Parker, at Brownsville, in j
which he stated that the storm seem-;
ed to be abating. The wind was then
reported at 70 miles an hour.
FEAR FOR ARMY STORES
SAN ANTONIO, Aug. 18 It was
stated at army headquarters here that
fear was entertained of saving the
immense quantities of army stores and
sunDlies in and ai'ound Brownsville.
It was said that a wind velocity of i
sixty miles an hour would damage the
big national guard camps. An eighty
mil wind, it was declared, would
1 level the camps, destroy canvas and
lightly constructed buildings and
I sheds. The wind was seventy miles
an hour. Governor Edward F. Dunne,
of Illinois and staff who spent two
; days in Brownsville, left northboaiid
j this afternoon and are due to arrive
in Houston tomorrow n.'orning.
RAIN IN CHIHUAHUA.
COLUMBUS, N. M., Aug. 18.-
-Re-
ports from the south tonlgnt leu oi
j neavy rains in the territory 'occupied
Dy the punitive expedition, causing
Rreat discomfort in the camps and
delaying motor transportation,
During the storm last night a huge
boulder crashed through the wind'ow
of a paSsenger coach on a west bound
train of the El Paso and Southwestern
Railway near the El Paso tunnel,
severely injuring a Mexican woman
and her child. The l'ock had been
washed off its moorings on the mount
ain side by the rains.
; en will have the vote before another
j general election is fought, except in
the unlikelv event of an election be- not cripple: which will build up. not naries .n.rKUu.. - yUV
ing forced on the country belore the! destroy; which will count American I Mng in a round of holes in the Shat
war ends. I achievement honorable and not some- I tuck mine last night at about 8:40
According to the Nation there have
Nation there have
been similar conversations among
men of great influence and of all of
the exponents Earl Curzon still re -
mulria a ittrnne nntionent of the wo-
...on-a xoimo tnoether with some nth-
er ministers.' Men of all parties real-
ize that the women's display of wil -
, lineness to neip in tne national cause
.. .
during the war has removed the last
.,.! .heir m.imcni recmrnit inn
Liberal papers are urging the govern- j hannen to a nation." he said,
ment to grapple with the problem of Mr. Hushes said he favored an ar
suffraee without delay on the c round ; my of citizens trained by the federal
that the coalition government is able government and responsible only to
to smooth the path of reform and j the federal government as the nation's
calm the fei-.rs of the house of lords first reserve. Of the navy Mr. Hughes
as no liberal government could. I (Continued on Page 2)
HUGHES VERY
CSREFUL IN
HIS COAST
TALKS
Republican Candidate
Fori
President Arrives in San
Francisco and Tells Natives !
of that State All About It.
DECLINES TO MIX IN
FACTIONAL FIGHT
New Yorker in His Various
! Addresses.
i (By Review Leased Wire)
! SAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 18.
i Charles E. Hushes, told an audience
here ton'Sht tnat he had!no concfrn
with local differences in politics
that "the great national aims" he had
in view transscended all possible lo-
cal differences, and that he regarded
the Republican party as "reunited,
inspired by lofty traditions," and de
voted to the accomplishments of great
achievements.
Before making his address Mr.
Hughes had conferred with leaders
here over differences In California
between Progressives and Republi-
can8 In his ajdres8 the nominee
8ai(j .
..,'come here as the spokesman of
nhliean nartv. With local
' -
; differences I have no concern. The
j great national aims I have In view
! transcend all possible local differ-
ences and we are together, reunited,
; inspired by the loftiest traditions of
our historic party and. devoted to the
accomplishments of those great
achievements upon which must rest
our enduring prosperity as a nation."
Speaking of preparedness Mr.
Hughes said:
"I desire that we should take no
narrow view. We live in a very criti
cal oeriod. There is a new world in
nrocess of formation. Out of the great
EuroDan conflict will issue a new
Europe, but there must be in a very
tfue nfw America t0 mPCt tne j
exigencies of that time. It must be
i an America that has found itr.elf; it
must be an America that takes a long
look ahead not content with the pros
pect of a few years, even of a decade I
or a score of years, but an America
plrnning for the twentieth century.
"We must conserve the very basis
of our prosperity in conserving women
and children. We must endeavor to
have a contented America; an Ameri
ca contented because of the preva
lence of just dealing between niau
and man, aided by wise laws.
We cannot afford in looking into
i tne future to fail to take account, of
the discontent and unrest. We do not
need to have a perennial agitation in
this country. All that is needed is a
firm sense of co-operation and reali
zation in our practical. Industrial time,
of those ideals of human brotherhood
upon which our constitutional sys
tem is based.
There is a new spirit, 1 believe,
abroad in the land. There is a dispo
sition to take account of Just griev
ances and to provide reasonable reme
dies. "We can have not only a humanita
rian which is absolutely essential be
cause it is right from a human stand
point and because it is necessary from
an economic, standpoint" j
Mr. tlughes repeated his tariff views ,
and his pledge that no one would "put ;
' over unns ioi pn.oic
pene m tariff adjustment if
I could help it. "I do propose, t
over things" for private gain M public
he '
how-1
. ever.'
he said, "that we shall have a
i constructive tariff, which will foster,
thing to be reduced; which will set
thing to be reduced;
the United States ahead, worthy of
competing in this economic struggle
1 with any nation on earth." I
The nominee reiterated his views on !
i r.ranoi-nriniii Bnrt assailed the admin-
j istration for vaccllation in respect to
; preparedness and for failure to pre-
; - .. .
pare tor tne .Mexican i-rim.
I "Mixing politics and military prep-
i .ro. i.m i the worst thine that can
PRESIDENT'S
OF
is
DEGFIEASING III
i
Indications
at Present Indi
cate that Epidemic Is on the '
Wane
B i Washington ;
Meeting Fears for Future.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Aug. 18. For the first !
tim since'the epidemic of paralysis!
in this city, reached proportions to
alarm the health authorities, the ad-;
visory committee of the board of :
health tonight announced that the j
disease had begun to wane, l'or six!
days, ending today, it was shown '
there had been 778 cases, an average I
of LZ a day, while the week previous j
the average was more than 140 a day.
The week ending August 4 averaged i
175 a day. This week it was pointed i
out averaged less than. 32 a day,!
where as
day.
last week they were 43 a
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. With a
warning .that unless measures are
found for its suppression, the infantile
paralysis epidemic may advance next
summer t'o states not now appreciably
affected, the national conference of
health officers declared after adopting
resolutions for the control of the
plague and naming a standing c'jiii-
mittee to study its causes, cooperation
among federal, state and local au -
thorities, towards curbing the epl -
demic was emphasized as imperative
in resolutions adopted and regulations
were recommended to control me
epidemic zones, and bv issuance or
uniform travel permi's and notifica
tion of their destinations but without
an interstate quarantine.
Delegates to the conference, who In
cluded health officers from forty
states and many experts of the public
health service, expressed confidence
tonight that the two days' expression
if v'es "n aspects of the baffling
I disease would result in vitalizing the
j campaign against it Advisory local
quarantine rules, adopted largely from
the New York City cOde, were ap
proved. Assistant Surgeon General
W. C. Rii'-ker, who presided over the
conference, made the following state
ment tonight:
We have admitted frankly and
freely tQ tne pubHc that we have
something we c'on't know a great deal
about and the public sympathizes with
our efforts to do whatever we can,
with the limited knowledge we have.
We Can't afford to leave any stone
unturned.
"The great bulk of traveling public,
presumably, is u'ot exposed, and should
i not be hampered until we know which
j persons are actually disease carriers.
. Dr. Glenn Andrews of Alabama
i said the conference was groping in
the dark in promulgating even ad
visory suggestions.
"I'm going home and tell my lOlks
that we don't know a thing about if
said Dr. Andrews.
In recommending restriction of
travel of children under 16, from
known epidemic areas, the confer
ence expressed its belief that no more
advanced step toward interstate quar
antine measures should be taken with
present limited knowledge of the
methods of transmission. The stand
(Continued on Psge T-o.
ow
I VIM
ILII IUIII
Charles Burgoon Killed When Rock Falls
In Shattuck Working, Breaking His Neck
A large boulder weighing nearly
two tons probably loosened by the Jar
of a machine drill, fell upon the back
i ciock. creaKing nis nec ..u
i R instantly.
uurgoun mi Binii j inn t uttj
evening and finding that the muckers
on the opposite shift had not finished
cleaning up the ore In the
prospect
j drift he had been working in. decided
to move over to another intermediate
Hrirt in u- itrh mere was a small vein
- - -
( m -. i v
l and had finished putting in one hole
and was working on the second when
the boulder just over his head fell
upon him giving him a large scalp
wound and breaking his neck, as well
as bruising him badly.
A mucker working near at hand
rushed to bis resue and secured help
PLAN FOR SETTLEMENT
STRIKE ACCEPTED Bl EMPLOYES
Railway Presidents Now
Consulting Over Proposal;
Deadlock Appears Likely
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. President Wilson's plan for settlement of
the threatened nation-wide raili'.ad strike was accepted today by the rep
resentatives of the employes and taken under consideration by officials of
the roads with many indications that they would reject fomorrow. Word
came from the managers tonight, however, that they had reached no
definite conclusion.
i mi mc suuBHwti .hub tit a utrnuiui iw. uv itmy uuyr tu
the sltuat.'jn lay in reports that the railroad officials might suggest
counter proposals forming the basis of a settlement, or that one side or
the other miht recede fi'orn its present position.
Thirty one presidents and ranking officials of the railroads received
by the president heard his plan for the adoption of an eight hour day.
regular pro rata pay for overtime and the creation of a federal commis
sion to investigate trilateral issues. They told him they would like to
consider the question, and would report back tomorrow with the com
mittee of managers which had been conducting negotiations. At the
same time the general committee of 6-iO representatives of the employes
were approving the President's plan by a large majority and soon after
the railroad officials left the White House the four heads of the railroad
brotherhoods directed to the President a letter notifying him of the vote.
While the railroad officials would make no formal statement they
revealed clearly their opposition to Mr. Wilson's plan, and indicated that
they would press further their offer to arbitrate all the points at issue.
In spite of these developments; it was reported the officials might
suggest a counter proposition based on the acceptance of an eight hour
day and arbitration of all other points, instead of the investigation by a
federal commission proposad under the President's plan. It was stated
positively, however, that the officials had reached no definite decision on
their future course.
In case the President finds no hope of settlement during his confer
ence with the railroad officials tomorrow, he probably will summon to
Washington s'ome of the powerful financiers of the country serving as di
rectors of the railroads. Administration officials said tonight he had by
no means given up hope Vf effecting a settlement and was determined
that it shall be reached if possible before the representatives of both
sides now here leave Washington.
i In their informal statement the of-
1 ficials insisted on arbitration on the
1 ground that if they give in this time
I it would mean other demands in the
I future and because they believed that
if they granted the 8-hour day rnd Im
consequent added expenses without
resort to arbitration, it would preju
dice any appeal they might make lat
er to the interstate commerce commis
sion for higher freight rates.
Having accepted the President's
plan of settlement the committee of , several days, and that each point in
employea took no further action to- volved would be thoroughly covered by
night, and awaited developments, the five heads of brotherhoods before
They were expecting summons to the any actioa was taken.
White House after the meeting tomor- ! As one railrooad head pointed out
row between Mr. Wilson and railroad tonight, the questions at issue in
officials. I volved the operation of 250.000 miles
After Mr. Wilson had explained his of '"d- one-fourth that of the en-
lo H,.l Hnl,l.n nrpaMnt f th lire WOrIJ- nJ thir solution may
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy. act
ing as spokesman, notified the Presi
dent that the officials present could
only speak for their individual roads
and the committee of managers was
the only body with power to accept or
reject proposals. It was indicated
plainly to Mr. Wilson that the offi
cials were inclined to stand behind the
previous attitude of the managers'
committee in refusing to accept the
eight hour day, and that the propo
sal was believed to be impracticable.
The President was told, however, that
the plan would be given further con
sideration and a report made to him
tomorrow. In a matter of such far
reaching Interests, the officials said,
they believed there should be no has
ty decision.
Mr. Wilson explained to the railroad
official that he had drawn up tho
plan because he thought it fair and
because he thought a way must be
found preventing a strike. He asked
them to demonstrate a spirit of con
cession and to assist him in settling
the controversy. Tonight the officials
to take the body out which was re
moved to the Palace Undertaking
Parlors.
Charles Burgoon was one of tne
best miners In the employ of the Shat
tuck company and had put In the
raise and prospect drifts in the coun
try, between the five and six hundred
foot levels, acting practically as his
own boss. He is an old timer in the
district, having lived here during the
past fourteen years and having been
employed at the Shattuck for many
months.
He has a brother here. Ross Bur
goon, who has also been In the city
for several years off and on. Another
brother resides in Hayden and his
family live In a small town in Penn
sylvania. Telegrams were sent to
these relatives last nluht informing
them of the fatal accident.
Burgoon was unmarried and was
about thirty nine years old.
,
j held another long conference at their
j hotel.
Employes' representatives held two
I meetlnes during the day. one of sev-
era! hours, for speech making and
balloting on the President's proposi
tion, and the other a short one, for
confirmation of the result of the rote.
They expressed the conviction tonight
that the negotiation with the White
House would not be concluded for
have a f3r-reaching effect on laboring
conditions throughout the - United
States. With 400.000 railroad men as
sured of an eight hour basic working
day. some of the operators feel it
would be a question of only a short
tin.e until laboring men in some of
the great industrial concerns of the
country would be making demands for
an eight hour day also. Echos of this
feeling are expected to reach the
White House as this view is spread
throughout the country.
The President realizes that if it
comes to a matter of a break with the
White House, some of the executives
may be inclined to subordinate their
ronvictior.s to Presidfnt Wilson's
wishes, and it has been planned to
have votes taken on each proposal
made by him with the understanding
that a majority vote shall bind all.
Railroad men present at today's
conference, and White House officials
declared toniuht that the President
had not talked of government o wor
ship of railroads as a possibility in
the future in case of a strike.
Persons in a position to be familiar
with the attitude 'f the officials as
outlined the position of the railroads
tonight as follows:
"The position of the railroad is that
they are standing for the great princi
ples of arbitration and that they can
not surrender this principle under th
threat of a strike or under pressure
from any other quarter."
There never was a time during the
day that the President's proposal
could not have been rushed through
the employes' meeting by a big ma
jority. Brotherhood leaders were In
no hurry to have a vote taken for sev
eral reasons. They wanted the rail
road presidents to meet with the Pres
ident before submitting their answer,
they were, desirous that the broth
hood men who had speeches to deliver
have the fullest opportunity to talk,
and besides they did not want to be
placed in the position of grasping any
r1rn thnt micht be proposal by the
White House.
Opposition to the plan, which was
scattered always was good naturej
and most of those who objected dis
cussed effects on their immediate lo
(Contlnued on Fm Two )
