Crisis Over Threatened Railroad Strike Continues; May Not Pass For Several Days
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 191
WILSON MAKES
1 STATEMENT ON
STRIKE CRISIS
Issues It After Conference
With Railroad Chiefs; Hold
Firm For Arbitration
NEGOTIATIONS CONTINUE
Concession of Eight-Hour and
Appointment of an Impartial
Body Urged
• By Associated Press
Washington. Aug. 19. The crisis
over the threatened railway strike con
tinues and there are many Indications
that it may not he passed for several
days.
After an hour's conference with
President Wilson to-day the 33 rail
road presidents left the White House
without giving any indication that
they had abandoned their stand for
arbitration, but with assurances that
the negotiations were not ended.
The railroad executives gave no
final answer to the President's pro
posals but will deliberate on them to
day and see President Wilson again
probably Monday.
The employes' committee of 640
having voted to accept President Wil
son's plan and thereby "put the thing
up to the railroads'' had another
meeting to-day to talk things over.
Both Want Public Support
Out of the maneuvering of both
sides for a position which will enjoy
the support of public opinion, come
many evidences that each is working
to organize public sentiment in its
favor and make it manifest in a posi- i
tlve way.
It was understood to-day that the 1
railroads are turning to other large,
employers of labor throughout the [
country to express their support as a ,
settlement of industrial disputes while ,
President Wilson and the employes |
are drawing support from large manu
facturing and other interests vitally !
interested in keeping the railroads \
open for business .and from those who i
■want to see the movement for the t
eight-hour day carried a long step for- |
ward.
The evidences point to moves by
each side to "backfire" the other. The I
[ConUnucd on Page 12]
High Cost of Paper
Hits the Baker, Too
Bakers in the city are confronted j
with the same Mt*uatfon as newspapers |
.—a paper famine—with big increases !
in the price of paper used to wrap the i
five and ten-cent loaves.
Several of the big bakery heads have j
already reported a jump in the cost of j
Fanitary paper used in wrapping bread, I
and this with the expected increase in !
flour prices, and the present high fig- ;
ures for sugar and lard .all used in
baking bread, help in cutting down the
profit to a minimum.
The paper shortage is causing a num- I
ber of the bakers to urge housewives j
to adopt the ten-cent loaf as it costs
only a fraction more to wrap the large
size than it does the five-cent loaf.
BAER GOES TO STATE
Lieutenant Carl Baer. son of the late
Dr. Samuel C. Baer, former principal
of the Central High school, has been
appointed instructor of military tac
tics at the Pennsylvania State College.
Lieutenant Baer had been a professor
of military science and tactics at the
Pennsylvania Military College, Chester,
for the past two years. He is now
assisting i'n drilling "rookies" at
Plattsburg.
i
THE WEATHER.I
1
For HnrrlMhure anil vicinity) Fair,
continued warm to-niKlu anil
Sunday.
For Eantcrn Pennsylvania: Fair to'- 1
night anil Sunday) not mueb
chungc in temperature; light, va
riable winds.
River
The Susquehanna river and all Its
tributaries will continue to fail
slowly or remain nearly station- I
A stage of about three feet
I* indicated for Harrinburii Sun
day morning.
General Condition*
Pre«*lire continue.* hi K h over the
Bafttern half of the country and
the .>orth*veKterii State*; it in
lowest over the Canadian prov
ince of Saskatchewan, where a
disturbance of slight energy |»
now central. The tropical hi'irr'- !
cane struck the Texas coast near
Corpus Christl, Friday, with greai
force, and is probably now cen
tral Home dlstanee inland anil di
minlfthing: in atreiiKth.
Another heat wave similar to that '
which prevailed during the tlrsi
week in August, is now central I
° V !. r . , i ,C Mississippi \ alley
and the Southwestern portion of '
the l ake Region, where tempera
turem have arisen 4 to S degree*
in the iant twenty-four hour* ami I
are now SO degreeN or above.
Temperature! 8 a. m., 72.
SU p ! m ß '" e "' 5i;!1 m-i **'*• 0i:iB
Moon i Last quarter,' August 20, Ti.-,3
n. m.
River Stngci 3.1 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, Ml.
I.owest temperature, <ls.
Mean temperature, 7(1.
Normal temperature, 72,
VACATION SEASON IS AT
ITS HEIGHT
Rest and recreation will not b«
complete unless you have all the
news from home every day. Your
favorite newspaper, the Harris
burg Telegraph, will fill the bin.
Phone the Circulation Department
l>efore you leave home. The next
Issue wUI meet you. no matter
where you go.
Six cents a week, postage pre
paid
BY CARRIERS fl CEVW A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
t
Have You a Little
Bird on Your Back ?
I <•»«:*> :|
One oddity of fashion, which may
or may not come into general vogue,
requires pictures of birds and other
animals to be painted on the bare
back and arms. Society in some large
cities has taken up the fashion in an
effort to make it popular.
Big Box of "the Makins"
For Each Harrisburg
Trooper on the Border
The Harrisburg boys at the Mex
ican border will receive a pleasant sur
prise next week. Big packing cases
filled with tobacco, cigarets, pipes,
cold cream and toilet articles were sent
forward. There is a separate box for
each one of the Harrisburg soldiers,
officers and privates alike.
The boxes are the gift of the little
circle of choice spirits constituting
that informal club known to those who
are fortunate enough to enjoy its
privileges as "The Ross Lambs," and
who make the tailorshop of Harry C.
Ross in North Third street their head
quarters. They had the goods deliver
ed in bulk at the shop and Colonel
Charles E. Covert, Senator E. E.
Beidleman, Mr. Ross, Frank A. Smith,
Mercer B. Tate, and a delegation of
others who were in the plot got to
gether and did the packing. This
morning they nailed up the packing
cases and sent them to Texas. They
filled a big two-horse wagon.
Mine Workers Apply to
State Police For Aid
That a more friendly feeling exists
between the mine workers and the
State Police, who in the past have been
on anything but the best of terms, was
evidenced in the recent meeting of
Local No. 1157, United Mine Workers
of America at Mocanaqua. Trouble
was anticipated from outsiders on ac
count of reinstating a former mem
ber. and threats had been made. Alex
Smith, secretary of the United Mine
Workers Association, sent a letter to
the State Police asking for protection.
In response to the request Zoe A.
Remaly. private of Troop B was sent
with a detail and perfect order was
maintained.
About 150 attended the meeting,
which was probably the first instance
in the history of the State Police
where a feeling of harmony and co
operation prevailed between a labor
organization and the police.
Phila. and Reading to Pay
Employes on the Border
Announcement has been made from
j the president's office of the Phila
i delphia and Reading Railway that em
ployes who entered the military serv
t leer of the nation during June are to
receive full pay for that month, the
same being credited to vacation al
lowance. To all married men who
enlisted prior to July 1 such sum will
be paid during their absence from duty
an amount equal to the difference be
tween their military pay and full rail
road salaries. Unmarried men with
dependents are to receive an amount
which with military pay will make
their income not less than half their
regular salaries and unmarried men
are to receive an amount making their
pay equal to half tl\elr regular salaries
on the road.
FRANCIS JOSEPH IS Sft
Special to the Telegraph
Berlin. Aug. 19. The 86th birthday
yesterday of Emperor Francis Josepn
of Austria-Hungary was celebrated
here on a large scale. The celebratioi.
hegan with a service In St. Hedwig »
Church at noon, attended hv the Austro-
Hungarien Diplomatic Corps and manv
Austro-Hungarian officers stationed
here. Germans attending were headed
hv Chancellor von F«-thman-Hollwegg
and Yice Chancelor Helifferich. Others
nresent were the Turkish Ambassador,
Hakki Pasha, and the Bulgarian Min
ister, Rizow. Ambassador James W
Gerard and the American naval ann
military attaches and the Swedish and
Chinese Diplomatic Corps also were
present.
ALEXANDER KET RECORD
By Associated Press
Cincinati, Aug. 19. According to
records in the hands of the National
Raseball commission, the shutout
game pitched by Alexander, of the
Philadelphia Nationals here yesterday,
establishes a new record for no-run
games pitched hy one pitcher during a
major league season. Up to last year,
according to these records, Mathew
son, pitching for New York, held the
honor with 12 shoutout games during
a season. Alexander equalled this last
year and surpassed it yesterday when
he pitched his thirteenth shutout of
this season.
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST 19, 1916.
ARMED ITALIAN
STEAMER BOUND
FOR N. Y. SUNK
Liner Stampalia Goes Down;
Had Accommodations
For 1,700 Passengers
LOSS OF * LIFE UNKNOWN
May Have Been in Government
Service; Marks Increase in
Submarine Activity
By Associated rress
London. Aug. 19.—The Italian
steamer Stampalia. which plies be
tween New York and Italian ports. |
has been sunk, says a dispatch to
Lloyds.
The Stampalia was a passenger liner
of 9,000 tons gross. In common with
other Italian liners she mounted guns
for protection from submarines. The ,
last repcrt of her movements was her
arrival on July 30 at Genoa from New ;
York, so that she apparently was sunk i
on the return voyage to the United j
States. She was commanded by Cap- i
tain Lavarello.
The Stampalia has accommodations
for about 1,700 passengers. On her !
recent voyages from Italy to New York
passenger traffic has been light and 1
the agents in New York of the line j
said to-day she probably carried a com- i
paratively small number of passengers. '
Her crew numbered about 17' J.
Had Reen Warned
On arriving at New York on March !
4 the StampaUa reported a wireless j
iwarning had been received soon after;
[leaving Genoa that a submarine was j
I lying in wait for her oft Sardinia. In- 1
stead of going north of Sardinia and!
| along the north shore of the Xlediter-I
[Continued on Page 12]
Phila. Book Publishers
Predict Raise in Prices
Special to the Telegraph
Philadelphia, Aug, 19. Scarcity and !
increased cost of papers, inks and vari- I
ous commodities entering into the mak- |
Ing of books have already forced pub- 1
Ushers to raise prices on some new i
publications, and it is estimated that:
readers of popular fiction will be pay- I
ing at least 15 per cent, more for their I
favorite authors in the near future. !
Standard technical works, such as
medical textbooks, are not likely to be
advanced, as these have been sold at
"fixed" price so long that the publishers
are pocketing a reduced profit rather
than increase the price. This is true
of many standard reference publica
tions, and it is the new works, chiefly
copyrighted fiction, which will cost
more over the retail counters.
The J. B. Lipplncott Company has al
ready announced slight advances on
some books published by it and other
publishers are reported to have revised
their lists on sets and copyrighted
books.
Publishers are paying from 33 per
cent, to 200 per cent, more for book
papers than previous to the war;
leather binding is up at least 25 per
cent, and flour paste, formerly bought
at $1.25 a barrel, is costing $2.50 to-day.
Binder board costs $47 a ton to-day, as
against $26 a few months ago, and inks
have advanced at a proportionate rate
with paper.
Tomorrow Promises to Be
Great For Swimming
| Indications point to a warm Sunday.-
■ According to tfie local weather ob
| server, E. R. Demain, Sunday prom
| ises to be an ideal day for river bath
ers. The cyclone from Texas is mov-
I ing northward, but losing strength.
I There is another hot wave coming
I from the west, and is due here about
Monday, if not stdetracked. Reports
I say It will be as hot as well as has
i been at any time this year.
The mercury started at 72 degrees
this morning. The forecast called for
85 degrees as the highest. To-night
will be warm, and to-morrow the heat
will be more in evidence than to-day.
The mercury may reach 90.
Striking Trolleymen to
Lead Labor Parade
Officers of the Federated Trades
Council announced the plans for a btfc
| labor parade to be held next Wednes
day night, forming at Front and Mar
! ket streets, at 7:45 o'clock. The strik-
I ing street car men will lead the line.
! and a large representation from other
| labor organizations is expected,
j leaders and strikers will start
[campaigning on Monday for the signer*.
of the petition asking Council to amend
I the jitney ordinance. About t.SOfl sig
! natures will be needed, and Charles F.
| Qulnn, secretary of the State Federation
! of Labor, predicted to-day that lie does
j not think it will be difficult to get the
; signers among the workers.
> J. J. Thorpe, organizer of the street
! car men. announced that $175 were
j raised at two festivals held for the
benefit of the strikers.
Maj. Gen. Wood Pays Visit
to Camp at Tobyhanna
By Associated rre.ts
Stroudsburg. Pa. Aug. 19. Majoi
General Wood, commander of
the Department of the East, visited the
T'nited State"! artillery camp of in
struction at Tobyhanna. last night, and
.made en address to thi> officers and
| men. The camp authorities refuse to
I give anv information regarding the
| reason for his visit.
Tt is understood that one of the Ton
! necticut batteries and those from New |
. .Tersev and Maryland will soor. denart <
; for the border. The other Yale bat
teries will be sent home, it is said, de- :
i spite the fact that 75 per cen*. of the I
members want to see active service.
ANOTHER HIM, RORERY
The home of George Trullinger, 508 i
South Thirteenth street, was entered I
by robbers last night, the thieves en-j
tering the house through the back par- I
lor window. A pocketbook containing '
several dollars in change and a rail- !
road pass were taken.
TO <sl YE PERMITS TOMORROW
The city health bureau offices will j
remain open to-night until 9 o'clock, j
and will he open to-morrow from 9 to j
5. so that parents can obtain special ;
permits to take their children on visits I
from the city or State. No charge is I
being made by the health department !
for the permits but they must be ob- ;
tained Dr. J. M. J. Raunick, city health j
officer, reiterated to-day. No permits |
will be Issued to persona Uvlnr In in
fected districts under quarantine '
("SILVER SANDALS";;
Opening Chapters on Monday
HERE is a new kind of detective story with a new kind of detective. ]|
Thornley Colton, the blind problemist, makes himself the master of
j, all mysteries. He has the eyes of Argus in his ten fingertips. He |>
,i regards his sightlessness as an asset. He declares that the criminal plans jj
j| only to elude detection by searching eyes, leaving a plain trail to him <>
11 who has no eyes, but a mind to reason and fingertips to touch. |!
He justifies this boast by the seeming miracles he works in solving J |
J, one of the most curious and perplexing crime-prablems ever offered in (|
11 fiction. ]!
11 Do the dead walk? |i
11 Yes! 11
If you doubt It, read this story. j!
The dead man walks into Gotham's most popular and extravagant
j, restaurant, at the hour when gayety takes its highest toll from luxury- i|
][ loving spendthrifts. That dread guest brings dismay. Those carousing |i
11 there do not know that the man is not alive. Yet, chill horror touches
j, them subtly. Joy vanishes under the spell cast by this malign presence
i > at the feast. i j
<> The old, old woman who walked with the dead man wore silver ]!
! i sandals. The rollicking patrons of the restaurant gaped in amazement '!
jj at those silver-shod feet. j;
j I There can be no doubt that an opening situation such as this means <>
i> a story unusual beyond the ordinary, full of amazing incidents, most J|
j| ingeniously conceived, and most artfully wrought. Mystery is piled on !>
<> mystery. There is a deaf-and-dumb clairvoyant—that same woman |!
! i of the silver sandals. The occult lore of Egypt becomes vital again, <!
11 after countless ages, in the modern metropolis. The cryptogram is so !>
,t uncanny and baffling that only one person could ever have solved the '!
>; intricacies of it. That one person is, after all, the chief wonder of <»
i> the story. <|
1
CENTRAL IRON
HAS GOOD YEAR
Commercial Sales Totaled
Nearly $3,000,000, Receivers'
Report Shows
How marked has been the improve
ment in the iron and steel business
during the last six months is indicated
by the report of the receivers of the
Central Iron and Steel Company for
the year ending February 29, 1916,
which has been filed with Prothono
tary Harry F. Holler of the Dauphin
county courts.
"Better times were ushered in by
an increased volume of orders," state
the receivers, "followed in the course
of four or five months by gradually
rising prices; the last two months,
January and February, 1916, witness
ed the beginning of a period when de
mand for the yme being exceeded the
plate producing capacity to such an
extent that prices mounted from day
to day to unprecedented figures. The
results of the year's operation is an
increase in the net assets of $202,-
750.97."
During the year the total commer
cial sales amounted'to $2,940,878.13
production included 86,985 tons of in
gots, and 91.398 net tons of plates.
Current liabilities were met with the
exception of three instalments of bond
interest which was temporarily post
poned. Improvements included a
modern ladle crane of 150 tons ca
pacity in the open hearth department,
two waste heat boilers and boiierhouse
building, and new grates and blowers
which permit the use of river coal.
The receivers commend the work of
R. H. Irons, general superintendent;
F. J. Hall, general sales agent, and
L. D. Perry, controller. The receivers
are C. L. Bailey, Jr., J. V. W. Reynders
and J. M. Cameron.
CITY'S FAIR TO BE
IN HUES OF BLU
Stores Already Displaying Gowns, Hats, Hosiery and Other
Fixin's of Heaven's Color
This is to be a "blue winter."
Dame Fashion has decreed it.
Some of the stores in the city are
already displaying gowns and hats to
match, and blue is the predominating
color. Other lighter shades are used
for trimming the neat skirts, waists
and suits, but even here, dark blue
military braid is being used to give
an effective touch to the smartest
costumes.
As blue is the most becoming of
all shades to nearly every woman, as
it always looks well for every occasion,
fair feminity is pleased and satisfied
with the verdict.
A charming costume of blue serge
has sleeves of chiffon and is embroid
ered in red and white beads, a pretty
patriotic touch in these days of Red-
Cross and preparedness. The coat
effect and coatee bodice are good and
are being shown in some of the new
est models.
It is a season when everything must
FUNSTON URGES
WITHDRAWAL?
War Department Refuses to
Comment on Reported
Recommendation
By Associated Press
j Washington, Aug. 19. While
' Secretary Baker and other war de
! partment officials refuse to confirm or
J deny that Major General Funston has
| recommended immediate withdrawal
! of General Pershing's expedition from
Mexico, there were Indications to-day
that such a message has been received.
Major General Bliss, assistant chief
' of staff, who returned yesterday from
I the border, conferred several days with
General Funston and also went to
i General Pershing's lines in Mexico.
I Secretary Baker conferred with Gen-
I eral Bliss yesterday and later saw
I President Wilson.
General Bliss is preparing a report
on the mobilization of the National
Guard and it is considered possible i
he may have joined General Funston '
In urging that the troops oe withdrawn
from Mexico as the consensus of mill- !
tary opinion appears to be that they \
are serving no useful purpose.
Withdrawal of the troops Is the first'
subject to be taken by the joint Inter- j
.national commission. i
NEED MONEY
FOR KIPONA
SI,OOO Necessary to Make Big
Water Event Complete
Success
The committee on finance which
has been commissioned with the task
of raising funds to meet the legiti
mate expenses of "The Kipona" next
month, has estimated that it will be
necessary to raise SI,OOO in order to
properly carry out the celebration.
Arrangements will be made to have
several bands in addition to the one
that the Rotary Club has promised to
supply, and attractive prizes for all
the events will be purchased. There
will likewise be many smaller items
and the committee will be glad to
receive all subscriptions, no matter
how small the amount. The news
papers will acknowledge all contribu
tions that may be received directly or
through members of the committee,
which is composed of William Jen
nings, chairman; Robert McCormick,
George W. Riley, John C. Herman and
E. J. Stackpole, Jr.
The Chamber of Commerce has
volunteered to handle the fireworks
for the celebration. This part of the
entertainment will be entirely in the
hands of a committee from the Cham
ber, made up of the following men:
Messrs. Felix N. Davis, A. H. Kreldler,
George McFarland, J. H. Nixon, Jo
seph Klinedinst, George Zellers. R. S.
Colwell and Fred Lack. The executive
committee of the Chamber decided
that "the Harrisburg Chamber of
Commerce will furnish and conduct
the fireworks for the river carnival
as the contribution of the Chamber
and its membership."
Already a number of contributions
' [ConUnucd on Page 12]
match, even the shoe buckles and the
stockings must match the gown of
midnight blue. An attractive hat of
the becoming droopy variety is of midt<'
night blue spider web and has a frill
of lace the same shade.
The attention to these little details,
the harmony of hat, gown and acces
sories are what complete the smart-,
ness of the costume and make it as
attractive as the most expensive cos
tume.
A dainty accessory which must also
match the gown in shade is the draw
string bag which is again in vogue.
Narrow ruffles are used to decorate
the bags and the draw strings are
unusually fancy. The bags are of
white kid, velveet or brocade to match
the gown in texture and shade. For
the late summer there is a pretty or
gandie bag with ruffles of lace. For
the sport suit the bags are made of
material to match the skirt or the
fancy coat or if the bag is somber
there is a fancy draw string or lining.
TEXAS HARD HIT
BY GREATSTORM
| Region Around Corpus Christi
Isolated; Heavy Loss
Feared
By Associated Press
San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 19.
; With army wireless reports stating
| there had been comparatively little
j damage and no known loss of life in
j the Brownsville district, chief anxiety
centered early to-day on the situation
at Corpus Christi and that vicinity
as a result of the tropical storm
which struck the Texas Gulf coast*
yesterday. The only loss of life so
far reported was in the sinking In the
gulf of Mexico of the small steamer
[Continued on Page 12]
WANTS 93,000 FOR SLAXDKII
Suit for $3,000 damages for slander
was filed to-day against Milan Trlnofi
by Teleff Milan and Ills wife, L,uba Mi
lan. TrlnofT. the *Milanj claim. si. '
glanderous things about Luba ana i 1
disrepute into which this brought I
wltli her neighbor*, seriously . i
her health, she claims.
RUSSIANS AGAIN
RESUME MARCH ON
KOVEL FORTRESS
Gen. Brussiloff Breaks Through
Teuton Line at Czerwiszczc,
Forty Miles From City
HEAVY FIGHTING IN WEST
Germans Make Unsuccessful
Counter Attacks; Italians
Holding Austrians
The Russian drive on Kovel has
been successfully resumed, Petrograd
announces to-day. After having been
held up for some time along the Stok
hod, General Brussiloff's forces have
broken through the Austro-German
lines about forty miles northeast of
Kovel at Czerwiscze, making a notable
advance, according to the official state
ment.
Although there has been heavy
fighting in this Volhynian region dur
ing the last fortnight the main Rus
sian effort in this period has been
exerted in Galicia in a drive for Lem-
[Continued on Page 12]
Pitiful Cases Reported to
Soldiers' Relief Committee
The committee in charge of aiding
the needy families of soldiers ran
across a pitiful case in Harrisburg to
day. The wife of a soldier gave birth
last night to a little daughter. She
is alone in the house, with nobody to
care for her and a little girl of two and
a half years to look after. She owed
rent and a grovery bill. The com
mittee paid these bills but could not
afford a trained nurse. A visiting
nurse will go in morning and evening
and the committee is now looking for
a woman to hire who will go into the
house and care for the mother until she
recovers. Apply or telephone either
Mrs. Charles E. Ryder, 3815 Riverside
Drive, or Mrs. George S. Reinoehl,
2114, North Third street.
The committee is greatly in need of
money and especially of clothing for
children. "Some of the children of
soldiers," said Mrs. Ryder to-day,
"are dressed in clothing made from
old flour sacks. Our funds are low
and the need is great. We received
only sls in donations this week, to
day's mail bringing $5 from one who
signs Mrs. R. P. B. But we need much
more.".
a Washington, Aug. 19.—During his address to the rail- I
I road pre President Wilson said: "If a strike comes I
i the üblic v ill know where the responsibility rests. It will jr
I not be upon me." 1 i
f BULGARS BEATEN BACK WITH LOSSES :
I Saloniki, via London, Aug. 11'.—Bulgarian troops who < \
¥ attacked the pc itions of the Entente allies along the Serbian ; (
J ust 17, were repulsed and 'thrown back upon |
•• their original positions after sustaining enormous losses, , I
1 says the Serbian official statement. |
. 1 JAP DEFEATS JOHNSTON
i t, R. 1., Aug. 19. —William M. Johnston, the jl
I national tennis title holder, was defeated by I. Kumagae, ; '
1. the Japanese champion, to-day in the final match of the * >
T singles tournament for the Casino cup. The score of
f Kumagae's victory was 6-1/9-7, 5-7, 2-6, 9-7. * ►
j SUSPECTED OF THEFT
f Frank Wolfe, an ice man, was arrested this
I ore 3 o'clock oi >n of J
9 from a kitchen of an Allison 11 ill home while deliverihg i.e.*
J AEROPLANES IN RACE ON TRIEST I
Berlin, Aug. 19.—Naval aeroplanes, with the aid of tor- m
Ipedo craft and motorboats, made an attack on the Austrian -I
seaport of Triest, says an Austria nadmilarty statement to- J
day. Several of the raiding craft were brought down and ® ►
althou h a number of bombs were dropped, little .!; 1 r.,,e '
! i was done, it is declared. I J
< ■ COP HAS TO USE BLACKJACK '
I *• Charged with indecent exposure in River | J
< » Front Park this afternoon, Harry McClain was arrested by 1
j Detective Schelhas. McClain resisted the officer who >
< » the Harrisburg Hospital for treatment. He will be given ;
, forced to "blackjack" the prisoner, who had to be taken to
i a hearing Monday. Mike Quinn, charged with vagrancy, ' '
was sentenced to serve 90 days in jail, by Alderman De
« , shong, at police court this afternoon. ' '
\ MARRIAGE LICENSES
( Steve Hutlcle aud Kutle Kulikt, city.
Ilalpli Tbonian Campbell, Duucuuaon, and Marx Lllllaa Evani, 01t7,. |
Clareaca L>ale UUlir uud Editk Troup, el«r. *
14 PAGES CITY EDITION
PRICES SOARING,
PENNA. FARMERS
ARE MADE HAPPY
Splendid Wheat, Rye and Oatg
Crops Here; Decrease
Elsewhere
MEANS BIG PROFITS
26,500,000 Bushels Wheat; 4,-
600,000 of Rye, and 36,526,-
000 Oats in the State
Pennsylvania farmers are complet
ing the harvest of splendid wheat, rye
and oats crops, which promise to bring
prices which will make the present
season one of the most prosperous in
years.
With the big declines Indicated In
these three crops in the United States,
the Pennsylvania farmer has been
fortunate in having a successful sea
son that will bring almost a normal
yield of the cereals.
Estimates made by the Bureau of
Statistics of the Pennsylvania Depart
ment of Agriculture show that the
wheat crop will be about 26,500,000
bushels as compared with 24,928,000
bushels last year; the rye crop about
4,663,566 bushels as compared with
4,672,000 bushels last year and an oats
crop of 36,526,000 bushels as against
3,095,000 bushels last year.
The crop of oats last year was one
of the greatest that the State has ever
produced and over ten million bushels
more than in 1914. The present fig
ures, despite a 4% reduction in acre
age shows that the crop is far above
the average and may closely approxi
mate last year's banner production.
Early in August the reports of the
crop correspondents of the Depart
ment of Agriculture indicated that
the condition of wheat compared with
an average was 100 per cent. Practi
cally no damage was done by the Hes
sian fly, but some damage resulted
from the heavy rains at harvest time
causing sprouting. In some sections
the heads did not fill well on account
of black millow while in others high
average yields to an acre are reported.
There was a decrease in the condi
tion of rye of two per cent, since July
1, but the average was 98 per cent,
and as the acreage harvested was two
per cent .smaller than last year the
production of 4,633,566 bushels is
above estimated normal.
GETSFOURTEENTH FLYER
Paris, Aug. 19. Sub-Lieutenant
George Guynemer of the French Fly
ing Corps, whose exploits have won
him a reputation as one of the most
I daring of French aviators, has shot
down his fourteenth adversary,
