"Life's as tedious as a twice told tale, vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man."--1": John.
SILVER, 65 3-4 CENTS
Tonopah Daily Bonanza
METAL QUOTATIONS
Silver , 65
Copper 26-27
Lead . 6.55-S6.75 J I
Quicksilver $70-$80
THE WEATHER
X Fair and Warmer Tonight and Sunday
4d4ddd?td)dddddddddd4)d)fr
VOL. XVI-NO. 56
TONOPAH, NEVADA, SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST 19, 1916
PRICE 10 CENTS
m ommt sure sitoit
PRESIDENTS CONFEIHWAIN WITH WILSON AND ADJOURN OVER TO MONDAY
Advance in Freight Rates
Furnish Solution and
Meet Approval Railroads
May
(By Associated rrnu.)
WASHINGTON, August 19. After
an hour's conference with the presi
dent at the White House the railroad
president departed without giving
any Indication that they had aban
doned their aland for arbitration, but
with the assurance that the negotia
tions were not ended. They Rave no
final answer to the president's pro
posals, but will deliberate them and
see the president again Monday.
The presidents went Into confer
ence without the managers' commit
tee, contrary to expectation and pre
vious announcements. They still held
to the view they were only authorized
to speak for their own roads and
were not vested with authority to
speak for all the lines which the
managers' committee represents. The
predominant report was that not all
railroad presidents favor holding out
against the president's proposal to
the point of a strike.
Hale llolden, president of the Burl
ington, as spokesman, declared (he
CROWN PRINCE IS NOT
WOUNDED IN HOSPITAL
d (By Associated Iress.) d)
PAWS, August 19. Report
that the German crown prince
is wounded and in the hospital
at Verdun Is authoritatively
denied.
$50,000,000 For Revival
r Of the American Marine
Passed By U. S. Senate
(Br Antrlilrl Press.)
WASHINGTON, August PLThe government shipping hill
passed the Senate hv a vote of :J8 to 21, ending one of the most
bitterly contented legislative strnles of the Wilson administration.
Passage of the hill paved the way 1'ur consideration of the
revenue bill beginning next week.
The shipping bill provides for creation, of a government shipping
board to acquire and operate ships for rehubililal ion of the American
merchant marine and appropriates !).'( 1,1 KK),( 100 for that purpose, to
be raised by the sale of Panama canal bonds.
Several important amendments were agreed to just before the
final vote, among them one by Senator lloke Smith, which would
reduce the salary of the shipping hoard members from !rlO,(HK) to
$7500 a year Other amendments passed included one by Senator
Fletcher, which would authorize the president to seek adjustment
of foreign discrimination against American shipping through diplo
matic sources and to take retaliatory action if such negotiations
fail. Another by Senator Thomas would authorize the treasury to
withhold "elcarance from masters of vessels who refuse to accept
freight from American citizens without satisfactory reasons.
At the last minute vain efforts were made by Senator Iiorah
to attach the immigration bill to the shipping measure, lie first
offered an amendment incorporating the literary test section in a
provision to prevent the transportation of aliens to American shores.
Tii .,..,..iw.,,t irn voted down 20 to :!). He then offered the
entire immigration bill as a rider, and it was rejected 22 to 157.
Administration leaders are hopeful lhat Senate amendment to the
bill will be accepted bv the House, where it will be submitted
Tuesday and that a conference will be unnecessary.
principle at stake was much larger
than the question of wages or hours
involved, and that the railroads be
lieved they owed it to themselvea to
continue their present position.
Addressing the officials, President
Wilson said: "If a strike comes the
public will know where the respon
sibility vests. It will not be on me."
The executives showed interest in
Wilson's mention of the possibility
that the Interstate Commerce com
mission is considering an increase in
freight rates.
The president sent messages to 14
presidents of western railroads asking
their presences at a conference or
else to send un authorized repreaen
tatlve. The employes met this after
noon and heard the president's state
incut read and adjourned to Monday.
Reports current among the em
ployes that a counter proposal Is ex
pected from the railroads was not
confirmed.
As one railroad head pointed out,
the Questions In issue Involve the
operation of 250,000 miles of rail
road, one fourth that of the entire
world, and their solution may have
a far reaching effect on laboring
conditions throughout the United
States. With 400,000 railroad men
assured of an eight hour basic work
ing day, some of the operators felt
It would be a question of only a
Bhort time until laboring men in
some of the great industrial concerns
of the country would be making de
mands for an eight hour day also.
Echoes of this feeling are expected
to reach the White House, as this
view is spread throughout the coun
try.
Railroad men present at the con
ference and White House officials
declared that the president . had not
talked of government ownership of
railroads as a possibility in the future
in case of a strike.
TODAY AND A YEAR AGO
1918 1915
5 a. m 48 69
9 a. m 60 ' 78
12 noon 69 88
2 p. m. ..A 71 88
Relative humidity at 2 p. m.
today, 18 ,per cent.
.
won iw
HEATWAVE
1NTHEWEST
CHICAGO AND SURROUNDING
COUNTRY VISITED BY .
HOT PERIOD
( lly Associated Press.)
CHICAGO, August 19. The heat
wave beginning in the middle west
yesterday continues. Weather offi
cials today - said the temperature
again would range between 95 and
100 in most of the central states.
The mercury marked 92 here this
morning.
TRIESTE IS
ATTACKED
FRENCH FLEET OF AEROPLANES
AND TORPEDO BOATS
REPULSED
1 By Associated Press.)
BERLIN, August 11). Naval aero
planes, mostly French, aided by tor
pedo craft and motor boats, attacked
Trieste on August 14.' Several of the
raiding craft were brought down and
the occupants killed. They dropped
several bombs. Two were killed and
one injured.
TERRIBLE HURRICANE
DROWNS OUT SOLDIERS
(By Associated Pre...) V
BROWNSVILLE, August !). By radio to the Associated Tress
at San Antonio). Reports reaching here of the hurricane' indicated
damage was slight up to 6 o'clock last night, although the wind
reached a velocity of (0 miles an hour during the dav. Thsj !
barometer marked 25.2(5, but at 5 o'clock it rose to 20.35. - . !
At dark the territory in the reaches of the fitorm extended front L
Corpus Christi to Tampieo, Mex. There was then no sign of abate
ment. The wind, starting from the northeast, later changed to the
southwest, blowing out, to sea.
(By Associate Press.)
SAN ANTONIO,
August 19. United5 States soldiers and na
tional guardsmen stationed at Fort Brown have been driven from;
their quarters and have taken refuge in the city hall and other;
public buildings at Brownsville, on account of the gulf coast storm j
which struck this section last night, according to meager reports'
received over the army wireless at Fort Sain Houston from Fort;
Brown. '
A terrific and destructive wind, according to this report, has
wrought havoc in Brownsville, and in the military camp. Those J
(Continued oa vsjje Four.)
FLEURY IS CAPTURED
BY THE FRENCH ARMY
(lly Associated Press.)
PARIS, August 19. The remainder of the ruins of Fleury, on
the Verdun front, have been captured, and the battle continues
violently, the French winning its forward path foot by foot.
HO ITftllhll
T
0
(By Associated Press.)
ROME, August 19. The Austrians launched an attack on the left
wing of the Italian army on Carso plateau. This was checked by the
fire of Italian batteries.
HUGHES VISITS
III 511 FRANCISCO PLANTS
RECALL OF
PERSHING
(By Associated Press.)
SALONIKI, August 19. Bulgarians attacking the positions of
the entente allies along the Serbian frontier Thursday were thrown
back to their original positions, sustaining enormous losses.
(By Associated Press.)
PKTROGRAD, August 19. The Russians have pierced the
Austro-German lines on the Stokhod river, in Volhynia, and made
considerable advance.
CARRIED TWO RAPID FIRERS TO
BE USED FOR DEFENSIVE
PURPOSES
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, August 19. A Lloyd's
dispatch reports the sinking of the
Italian steamship Stampalia, which
plies between New York and Italian
ports, a passenger ship ot 9000 tons.
It is believed the vessel carried a
small passenger list. The Stampalia
was armed for defensive purposes
with two three Inch rapid flrers.
PETROGRAD, August 19. A break in the Teutonic front was
mad in the region of the village of Czerwiscrs, 40 miles northeast of
Kovel.
I By Associated Press.)
SAN FRANCISCO, (August 19.
Oov.Hughes spent the (lay talking
with the worklngmen at the union
Iron works, lunching at the Commer
cial club, conferring with Republican
country newspaper editors assembled
here, and addressing a mass meeting
at Oakland. At the Iron works a
grimy machinist left his lathe Icing
enougn to introduce Hughes. The
candidate repeated his declaration In
favor of a protective tariff Hnd more
liberal working condition, lie said
he believed In better hours for la
borers, old age pensions, proper rcoxe
at Ion nnd safeguards for life and
limb.
"We can't make wages out of In
dustrial turmoil," he said. "Knclless
restlessness must stop. There tnUHt
he a spirited cooperation with cap!
tal and no succos for capital without
co-operation with labor. The govern
ment must rest on the foundation
formed by contented worklngmen
who have a share in the nation's
prosperity. At present I think the
human factor In production has not
been recognised enough."
At the Commercial club he re
peated M declaration In favor of
preparedness and assailed Wilson for
his Mexican policy.
Union waitresses refused to serve
the luncheon given Hughes by the
Commercial club because the club ex
hlbtts In the window an open shop
card as part of the fight being made
here by the Chamber of Commerce
on the cloned shop.
For the luncheon the club manage
ment sent a request to the Walters'
union asking for 65 men, after the
union officials had protested to the
Republican stale central committee
BL-aliiHt illnlnu the candidate at an
open shop club.
The Walters' association backed
up the local wallers and pickets were
sent to the club to warn union wait
ers away. About 30 waiter rcgu
larly emiiliiveil bv the club walked
out one hour before Hughes was due
Tim kitchen help stuck to their timks.
A nearby restaurant closed, sending
Its entire staff to the club and the
luncheon proceeded.
I lly Associated Tress.)
WASHINGTON, August 19. Al
though Secretary Baker and otner
War department officials refuse to
confirm or deny reports that Gen.
Funston has recommended the imme
diate withdrawal of Pershing's force,
there are Indications that such a mes
sage has been received. Gen. Bliss,
assistant chief of staff, returned to
day from the border, where be con
ferred! several dny; with Funston.
He also went to Pershing's camp.
CMP
BOMBS SET FIRE
TO
UtIITi
BRITISH AEROPLANE SERIOUSLY
DAMAGES GERMAN 8UPPLY
STATION
OPE
IIS III Hit
REMOVED TO HOSPITAL
l'hlllp O'Donnell was removed to
the Mine Operators' hiwpltal this
morning from the Victor mine to be
treated for dislocated elbow.
illy Asaorlalrd Press.)
BRUNSWICK, Maine, August 111.
Champ Clark, in opening the cam
paign In Maine for the Democratic
parly, mudu a speech wherein he told
of (he accomplishments of the ad
ministration under Wilson. He took
note of the Hughes campaign when
he said Hughes thus far bad made
enough speeches to enable the people
In Jmk'c his opinions of current Is
sues anil Speaker Clark's opinion was
lhat "He baa shot his bolt, but failed
to hit a bulUeya.
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, August 19. Assaults by British and French forces
against German positions north of the Somme in France have
resulted in the gaining of additional ground by the attackers,
according to the British and French war offices. The French
advance was-in and around JIaurepns, the scene of much hard
fighting during the last few weeks, and the British gains were in the
direction of Ginchey and Guilleinont, near the southern end of their
section of the Somme front. The. Anglo-French attack, London says,
took place along the whole line from Pozieres to the Somme.
The gains reported by Paris and London were in the center of
the Gorman positions on the Somme front and murk another step
in the Anglo-French advance toward Comhles. French troops
gained more ground in the village of Maurcpns, after the stopping
of the German counter attacks near the village. Calvary hill,
southeast of the vilbuze. was curried bv assault ami the French
position on the Maurepas-C'lery road also was extended.
Paris chronicles the capture of two fortified rechmbls northwest
of the Thiattmotit works.
Berlin reports altacks by the French and British force north
of the Somme, but says all of them were repulsed except one by
the British in the direction of Martinpuieh. A French gain around
Fleury in the Verdun region is admitted.
There him been little activity on the eastern front, according to
the official reports. Most of the lighting has been in the Carpathian
mountain rctrion. where both the Kiivtinn nnd the Aiilro-!ei'iiiaiis
claim to have made some slight advances. lYtrograd says tin
Austro-Gerinans are attacking in the tialiiia, but with no success.
The Teutonic allies have taken the c.nVlistve on the draeeo-
Serbian frontier, north of Snloniki, and Berlin reports the capture
of the Greek town of Fiorina from Serbian troops. This movement
probably is in answer to the recent entente allied activity on the
same front.
BRITISH
TWO MILE FRQriT
PRESS BACK CROWN PRINCE'S
ARMY FOR A DEPTH OF
. 600 YARDS
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, August 19 (6 p. m.).
The British line on the Somme' front
was advanced today on a section
two miles long and from 200 to 600
deep from Highwood to a junction
with the French forces.
Renewal of fighting in Mesopo
tamia wherein the British engaged
Turkish Irregulars is reported. Sixty
Turks were killed and many wounded.
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON. August 1 19. A British
aeroplane raided the German ammu
nltlon stations at Llchtervelde, Bel-
glum, and dropped fifty bombs, which
caused large fires. On the British
Somme front a thunderstorm, the
heaviest downpour of the season,
joined the artillery this morning as
a finale to yesterday's Anglo-French
attack from Pozleres to Somme. The
British advance turned toward Gullle
mont, gaining important positions on
either side of the town, taking ground
to the right of Highwood.
( By Associated Press.)
BERLIN. August 19. The Germans
victoriously resisted a stupendous
Anglo-French attack on the Somme
front yesterday, but between Gullle
mont and Maurepas they shortened
their line somewhat
Further German positions in the
region of Glnchy and Guillemont have
been captured by the British forces
operating in the Somme region. ', Over
200 prisoners were taken ' by the
British during Friday. J " .
JAP TENNIS CHAMPION
I
IICEIIDIrf FIRE
1(1 U, S. ARSENAL
EXPLOSION IN LABORATORY IN
CITES REPORTS OF ATTEMPT
AT DESTRUCTION
( By Associated Press.)
NEWPORT, R. I., Augdif fS-
William H. Johnston, nationi I tennis
champion, was defeated todi.y ir ti
Kumagae, Japanese champion, it) tlio
final singles of the tournament frdj
i lie casino cup. score, o-i, 9-0,
2 6, 9-7.
BUTLER
THEATRE
BETTER PICTURES
t Hy Associated Press.)
ROCK ISLAND, 111., August 19.
Commandant Burr, of the V. S. Ar-i
setuil, Insisted that an explosion and I
lire that occurred last night, destroy-(
ing a small laboratory, entailing
:Wt damage, was not the work of
an incendiary. The ei plosion of am
munition alarmed the town, as It was
believed an attempt was made to
J blow up the arsenal
TONIGHT
Double Bill Tonight Double Bill
EDMUND BREESE
In
"THE SPELL OF THE YUKON"
Also
CHARLIE CHAPLIN
In His Latest Two-Reel Comedy
"THE VAGABOND"
Tomorrow
"THE GOLDEN CH"Ct"."
Festurlna
CLEO RIOGELEY AN O :
WALLACE Rt J f i
And
"Col Heeia Liar and the Bandits"
Bray Cartoon
Matin 1: JO Night 7:1M:4I
Admit!. 10-1N
