OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
AJG 2 J 1916
e)Abor,:dvocAle
WHHUtn
NON-PARTISAN
Tmm
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 18
CINCINNATI, OHIO, AUGUST 19, 1916
One Dollar a Year
The Cincinnati Speedway Built By Tramps
Employed By Out of Town Contractors E. W. Edwards, Harry S. Leyman, T. J. Davis,
W. T. Foley, Maurice J. Freiberg and H, K: Shockley Believe in the Slogan
Buy In Cincinnati," When They Have Goods to Sell, Which of Course Does
' Not Apply to the Local Working Classes.
t
Regular Meeting of the Building Trades Council Protest Sent to Friedlander Against Policemen Doing the Work
of the Building Trades Crafts.
After a thorough investigation of the
Cincinnati Speedway, by a Committee of
the Building Trades Council, the facts
disclosed are appalling; they have dis
covered not only that union labor was
not employed, but that local labor had
been dispensed with and a gang of the
most dangerous tramps in the world have
been at work on the Speedway.
Some of them imported here for that
purpose and others who just drifted in,
they arc working on 14-hour shifts for
half the money that Cincinnati workmen
can live on.
No circus in its palmiest days showed
so many rats at one place as can be
found out in Sharon working for gen
tlemen who arc always howling for you
to "Buy in Cincinnati." There have been
seventeen men killed up to date, and
half of them have been murdered. The
men sleep on the lumber and any visitor
is liable to get full of fleas.
Some1 time ago E. W. Edwards, the
president, assured the representatives
o union-labor that the work would be
given to home people and to union-men,
if he had anything to do with it. He ex
plained that he only loaned his name to
the scheme to help it along.
From the results Mr. Edwards must
think very little of his name to lend it
to. the kind of people who are running
this proposition.
Mr. Edwards is a member of the Re
publican campaign committee and an ex
President of the Business Men's Club,
and as such has been an ardent advocate
of "Buy in Cincinnati," evidently that
only applies to the1 things that mem
bers of his club sell and does not in
clude ordinary labor.
In his own business Edwards uses un
ion labor because he finds it best.
Harry S. Leyman, of the Lcyman
Buick Automobile Company, is Vice
President and evidently .believes that the
working men of Cincinnati should find
work somewhere else if they want a liv
ing wage, but buy their automobiles from
him.
T. J. Davis, the Treasurer, is Vice
President of the First National Bank,
and not having any savings department
that they can make money out of those
who toil, that gentleman is independent,
and like all hankers, believes in getting
all he can for his money, no matter how
many hours a man toils for a few dol
lars. Wm. T. Foley, the Secretary, is Sec
retary of the Automobile Club.
Maurice J. Freiberg, of the firm of
Freiberg & Workutn, is a member of the
Race Committee, and another gentle
man who believes in buying in Cincin
nati. Mr. Freiberg has always been
friendly to home labor, whether organ
ized or not, but he is in bad company
with the present outfit who control the
Speedway, if he expects labor to sup
port wet campaigns.
The result of the report was that the
Building Trades Council passed a reso
lution not to patronize the Speedway
and to notify their friends of the treat
ment that home labor had received at the
hands of the gentlemen who are promot
ing the proposition.
The regular meeting of the Council
was called to order by President Jos.
Cullen ; the minutes of the previous
meeting were read and adopted.
A communication from Tlios. Muga
vin, secretary of the Ohio State Build
ing Trades, was received and filed.
A protest was received from the Ham
ilton Lodge, 241, of Machinists, protest
ing against the Imperial Band of Hamil
ton taking part in the Labor Day parade,
as some of the members were scab ma
chinists, which was referred to the La
bor Day Committee.
A strong protest was made against
policemen doing work that belongs to
the building crafts. After a discussion,
in which the city administration was
criticized, it was decided to send a pro
test to Safety Director Friedlander, ask
ing that policemen be confined to police
f
The Cincinnati Speedway
The Cincinnati Speedway was built by out-of-town con
tractors with a lot of tramps gathered from all over the globe.
No circus in its palmiest days could get together such a
gang of rats.
They work fourteen-hour shifts, sleep on the lumber and
the place should be filled with fleas.
No union labor used.
Home labor has been barred, except those who work for
half price.
" Buy in Cincinnati."
THE PROMOTERS.
E. W. Edwards, of the E. W. Edwards Co., member of
the Republican Advisory Committee, ex-President of the Bus
iness Men's Club, President; Harry S. Leyman, of the Ley-man-Buick
Automobile Co., Vice-President; T. J. Davis, Vice
President of the First National Bank, Treasurer; Wm. T.
Foley, Secretary of the Automobile Club, Secretary.
The Race Committee is composed of Leyman, Davis and
Maurice J. Freiberg, of the firm of Freiberg & Workum, dis
tillers. "Buy in Cincinnati."
THE RESULTS.
Organized labor has decided not to patronize the Speed
way and to ask their friends to; do the same thing. .No
mechanic that lives in Cincinnati, whether union or not, should
encourage this class of work.
"Buy in Cincinnati"
Everything But
Tickets to the Speedway.
A Demand For 500 Men
Declared Collins in an Interview in The Enquirer, But
Upon Investigation He Did Not Have a Demand for
Fifty Common Laborers. Such Interviews Hurt the.
Town, When They Are Not True.
The following interview appeared in I requests for fifty laborers, much less
yesterday's Enquirer, from Mr. C. E,
Gibbons, superintendent of the State
City Employment Bureau :
"Requests from Cincinnati employers
for more than 500 men are on file at
the office of C. E. Gibbons, Superintend
ent of the State-City Free Employment
Bureau, at the City Hall. Mechanical,
clerical and labor positions of various
kinds-are inr.luded-in -the list. Mr. Gib
bons says therc'fs 'a "scarcity
Cincinnati."
A committee of the Building Trades
Council called on Mr. Gibbons in re
gard to the matter and after an inves
tigation discovered that he did not have
500 mechanics.
It is very easy to hand out this kind
of talk, but it looks as if it was done
in the interest of those who want a sur
plus of cheap labor in order to fight
our home people who demand a living
wage.
False reports of this kind doesa great
injustice to the man out of work in other
iftpc" T4n rpnrlc this stnff ntl'rl rnmps
,i;4iert?l)ucrgctsii6tliinEifyiet:rs';a'unroa
Ot Jabor in in wy tlcy ,)ave to t-e:care of him,
if not it only puts another scab in tlie
field to fight.
Pretty soft for Gibbons drawing his
pay and handing that stuff out to boost
Cincinnati.
IN NEW HANDS
International Union To Look After
Idle Butchers Affairs.
STRIKEBREAKERS IN CINCINNATI
Hut Whether for Steam or Street
Haihvay Purposes Is Xot
Known.
duty and not detailed to do painting,
electrical and other work, which should
go to the contractors who pay taxes.
Sonic wag remarked that it was sur
prising that Friedlander had not detailed
some of them to the Metal Trades Asso
ciation. He was .quickly reminded that
a few months ago nearly all the police
were working for that benevolent asso
ciation. Phil Fischer, Vice-President of the
Council, was named as Grand Marshal
of the Labor Day parade.
J. M. Davis, Business Agent for the
Iron Workers, was elected Second As
sistant Marshal.
All trades reported business good.
SICAMHX ori'OKH WKMMItK
I'hAX.
Buffalo, N. Y. The Seamen's union
is demanding increased wages and the
abolition of a so-called "welfare plan"
that the Lake Carriers' Association en
forces on its employes. Under this
scheme the color of a seaman's eyes and
hair together with other physical fea
tures, arc described in a book he must
always carry to secure employment on
any vessel which is a member of the as
sociation. President Furuseth of the In
ternational Seamen's union and Secre
tary blander of the Lake Seamen's un
ion are in the city conferring with local
union seamen.
DKFKAT "liAHOIt AOKXT" hAW.
Chattanooga, Tenn. Objections raised
by alert trade unionists has caused the
city commissioners to reject a so-called
"labor agent" ordinance, which provides
"that it shall be unlawful for any per
son in this city knowingly to hire, con
tract with, decoy or entice away, directly
or indirectly, anyone, male or female,
who is at the time in question in the
employment of another."
A number of manufacturers urged
the passage of the ordinance, which
thev insisted would apply only to
"out-of-town labor agents," who had
operated to their great discomfiture and
had depleted their forces by enticing
workers away. President Cohen of the
Central Labor Union said the ordinance
would give absolute power to the police
department to dictate where a man
should work. Unionists declared that if
Chattanooga business men arc not will
ing to compete with firms in other cities
for labor these workers should be priv
ileged to go where they pleased.
The manufacturers insisted that a
similar law was passed by the state leg
islature. One of the commissioners an
swered that this does not justify Chat
tanooga in passing a "fool" law.
That the International Butcher Work
men's Union would conduct the strike of
Cincinnati butcher workmen from now
on was the assertion of Michael Schuld,
business agent for the Cincinnati union,
following a meeting of strikers last
Thursday night at Brighton Hotel. John
F. Hart, Yorkville, X. Y., international
president of the organization, and Otto
Haas, Louisville, Ky., sixth international
vice-president, made addresses.
The strike of butcher workmen has
been in nrocress for nearly 1U weeks. A
number of men have made application
at the various Hacking houses for their
old positions. Several, it is said, were
turned down and others were taken back
under conditions which prevailed before
the strike was called.
Schuld declared all men who had re
turned to work Thursday night agreed
to again go on strike this Friday morn
ing. He said International President
Hart would remain in the city and take
personal charge of the situation.
"DRIVERS WALK OUT"
Demanding an increase in wages of
$2 a week a number of drivers employ
ed by the Cincinnati and Suburban Ex
press Company, 120 to 120 East Court
street, "walked out" at noon last Thurs
day. The men, who arc not members
of a union, were offered an increase in
wages of $1 a week. At the office of the
company it was said six of the thirty
drivers employed were not working,
due to a little dissatisfaction, but as a
majority of the men still were at work
wagons would ue operated as usiuu.
Strikers declare all except four drivers
joined the "walk out."
IMtlXTKHS IXOKKASK llhOCKHI).
Washington. Congressman Mann,
Republican house leader, blocked an at
tempt to raise wages of compositors
and bookbinders in the government
printing office, which has been passed
by the senate. When the bill was called
up for consideration Congressman Mann
objected, thus forcing it oil the unani
mous consent calendar. Unionists arc
now fearful that this matter will not be
reached again during the present ses
sion of congress.
Cincinnati apparently became a mobi
lization point for strike-breakers Thurs
day, but whether the gathering was in
preparation for the threatened, street
railway strike in Xew York or in con
nection with the dispute of the steam
roads' brotherhood organization, was
not clear. The head of 'a detective
agency in Cincinnati says the men.prab
ably have been assembled to wait for
what may transpire hi the street railway
situation in Xew York.
There were nearly a hundred of them
at one hotel, and it was said that they
probably would leave the city Friday
morning, lney arc registereu irom
points in the South. It also was stated
that about a hundred more would arrive
in Cincinnati from the South Friday
morning.
SYSTEMS IMPORTANT;
CHILDREN NOT VITAL
San Francisco. In one of his satirical
moods, the editor of the San Francisco
Bulletin writes :
"Careful readers of the Congressional
Record will find their faith in human
nature much revived by the discovery
that the opposition to the child labor
bill comes, not from a hatred of chil
dren, but from an intense love for con
stitutional liberties. Senator Hanvick,
of Georgia, took this ground a few days
ago when he denounced the bill as
the boldest attempt in the history of
the republic to destroy and break
down the rights of the States, to de
molish the symmetry of the Ameri
can system, 'and to utterly disjoint
the balance between state and fed
eral power.
"Of course, the general public has
thought that the only question about
this bill was whether or not the federal
government should allow the savage ex
ploitation of children in certain States
when it had means to stop it. But the
children seem to be incidental. It is
the svmmetry of the American system
that really matters ; it is the balance be
tween State and Federal power that
wrings the last ounce of loyalty from
the hearts of southern patriots. Chil
dren are transient phenomena, espe
cially when thev arc overworked, but
system and balances are eternal."
r
