Do Yea Know a BETTER
NEGRO PAPER Publiihcd Than
The. SUN? Subscribe Now and
Get the News While it's News.
Five Great Conventions
in Kansas City During Aug
ust Advertise Your Rooms
For Rent and Make Money.
VOLUME VIII. NUMBER 61
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 191(.
PRICE, 5c.
The Doctors Our Closest Friends Thrice Welcome
mm
National Negro Medical
Association Meets
in Kansas City
Greatest Organization of Professional Men of
the Race will hold its 18th Annual Session
Beginning Tuesday, August 22 and
Continuing Three Days
Many Noted Physicians and Surgeons as well
as Dentists and Pharmacists will he
in Attendance
Will be the Swellest Affair Socially Kansas City
Has Ever Witnessed
Many Ladies Will Be Present
The Eighteenth Annual Session of 1 vllle, Tenn., ever alert to put Into ac
the National Medical Association, one tlon any suggestion which would tend
of the most scientific organizations of ( to make the personnel of the Negro
the race, meets in our city August . Medical fraternity appear to better
22-24. 1 advantage, seized the idea advanced
DR. J. R. A. CROSSLAND, St. Joseph, Mo.,
Ex-Minlster to Liberia and the most successful Physician of the State, an
orator, a scholar and a true friend. 'fv
.
The association, through Its effi
cient editorial staff, composed of, the
following gentlemen: Drs. C. V. Ro
man, J. A. Kenney, W. G-. Alexander,
U. G. Dally, Roscoe C. Brown and
Joseph J. France, publishes p. most ex
cellent medical journal, and It enjoys
the distinction of possessing seven
foreign exchanges.
The accomplishments thus far have
000 on the Negro department of the
city Institution. They very eager to
have the work completed prior to this
meeting, but have partially failed to
do so. Yet this status of affairs will
not interfere with the Clinics, as the
operating room will be in splendid
condition.
The public opening will be held
Tuesday evening, August 22, in the
Gymnasium of the Y C. A., after
- -
DR. L. E. BAILER,
President Kansas City Medical So
ciety and Chairman of Committee of
Management for the National Asso
ciation Meeting.
which there will be a reception at the
Armory Hall, 14th arid Michigan ave
nue. To both of these meetings the
public at large is most 'cordially In
vited. Also to a social at the City
Park in Kansas City, Kansas, August
23.
We wishto announce, that there will
be a public health meeting at Allen
Chapel A. M. E. church Sunday even
ing, August 20, at which three dis
tinguished visiting doctors will speak,
viz., Drs. Levy' of South Carolina, Can
non of New Jersey and Wilson of Tennessee.
STATE VICE PRESIDENTS AND OTHER NOTABLE CHARACTERS X)F THE MEDICAL
FRATERNITY.
1. Dr. W. A. Warfield, Surgeon-lo-Chlef, Freedman's H ospltal, Washington, D. 2. 2. Dr. A. M. Brown. ex-President
Birmingham .Ala- 3. E. D. Morris, M.D., State Vice-President, Oklahoma, 4. Dr. S. A. Furnlss, State Vice-President, i
Indianapolis, Ind. 5 . Valdo Turner, M.D., Chairman Medical Sect, State Vice-President, St. Paul, Minn. 6. A. V. '
Grey, Ph.G., Pharmaceutical Editor, Washington, D. C. 7. Dr. I. W. Young, President Trl-State Medical Association, '
Oklahoma, Missouri, Kansas. 8, J. A. ReDamuc, M.D., State Vice-President Montgomery, Ala. 9. J. A. McFall, Ph.G.,
ex-Vlce-Presldent Charleston, S. C. 10. L. P. Walton, M.D., State Vice-President, Atlanta, Ga. 11. Dr. J. Mercu G.I
Ramsey, .ex-Vice-President, 'N. M. A., Richmond, Va. 12. Dr. FtJS. Hargrave, ex-President Wilson, N. C. 13. R. S.
Jones, M.D., State Vice-President, Charleston, W. Va. 14; Harry F. Brown, M.D, Baltimore, Md. 15. J. A. Robinson,
M. D., State. Vice-President, Darlington, S. C. 16. J. R. Sheppard, M.D., State Vice-President, Marshall, Tex. 17. Ai S.
Reed, M.D., State, Vice President, New York City, N. Y. 18, F. O. Miller, M.D., State Vice-President, Wichita, Kans.
19. E. A. Carter, M.D., State Vice-President, Buxton, la. 20. A. A. Tennant, M.D., Secretary Medical Section, Rich
mond, Va. 21. J. A. Harding, M.D., State Vice-President, New Orleans, La. 22. W. H. Johnson, M.D., Surgeon-ln-Chief,
Charleston, S. C. 23. W. G. Gordon, M.D., State Vice-President, Los Angeles, Cal 24. W. H. Hlgglns, M.D.,
State Vice-President, Providence, R. I.
KB
DR. T. Q, UNTHANK,
Superintendent Kansas City
Hospital.
Negro
Noted Negro physicians, dentists,
pharmacists and surgeons will be in
attendance from practically every
state' in the Union.
Its Organization, Growth and Benefl
' cent Activities.
During the Cotton States and In
ternational Exposition in Atlanta, Ga.,
In 1895, Dr. I. Garland Penn, a com
missioner of Negro Exhibits, anxious
to demonstrate to the world the great
advancement and tho attainments of
our people in every profession and
avocation, induced the large number
of Colored physicians and Colored
eurgeons who were In attendance to
organize, themselves into a National
Association.
The lato Dr. It. F, Boyd of Nash-
by Dr. Penn and put it Into action
there and then affecting an organiza
tion of the Medico Chirurgtcal Ne
groes assembled, at tthe great Cotton
States and -International Exposition.
Hence Boyd can justly bo termed tho
father of the National Association.
The next meeting was held in Nash
ville, Tenn., during the Centennial
Celebration in October. 1897.
Year by year since then the associ
ation 'has grown both numerically and
intellectually until it is now recog
nized as a, potent factor In stimulating
loftier professional ideas, hlghor de
grees of efficiency and giving our race
such bits of sanitary advice as will
finally, figure materially In reducing
our death rate.
been most excellent but the splendid
gentlemen who have labored so long
and earnestly fully realize the fact
that there is still room for improve
ment. And they are continually work
ing earnestly and zealously1 to secure
for the Negro profession that respect
and admiration, that only true worth
and manly activities can justly merit.
Our local physicians, surgeons, den
tists and pharmacists have labored
earnestly to give to the association
one of its best sessions. Meetings
will be held at tho Paseo Y. M. C, A.
Dally clinics will bo held at the City
.Hospital, 22nd and Cherry streets,
and Wheatly-Provident Hospital, 1214
Vino street The Hospital and Health
Board at this time Is spending $20,-
DR. W. HUBERT BRUCE,
One of Kansas City's most progressive
and successful physicians and sur
geons, and who is highly respected
both within and without the profession.
TALK LESS.
If more of us would talk less, think !
more and settle down on the nractlral
side of life, paying greater attention!
to loyalty, economy and sensible llv-
Ing, we would be a better people. ,
If we extend our' professed race I
pride and boastedd desire for ad-1
vancement, beyond the narrow limit
oi words and take a real live Inter
est In helping to build up Colored
enterprise, we would show that our
professions are sincere not imagin
ary nor on the surface.
There is much that we can do for
ourselves that would count in the'
way of real advancement. We need
DR. J. EDWA RD PERRY,
State Vice President of the National Association, Chairman Surgical Sec
tion National Association, Secretary Tri-State Association Missouri-Kansas-Oklahoma,
the founder of the most successful Negro Hospital In the West,
Assistant Surgeon General Hospital Kansas City, Mo., and Chairman Com
mittee Surgical Clinics.
strength of a race depends upon the race may expect to be handsomely
act of every member, we would feel represented at the State Capitol next
It uor duty to spend our cents and winter. Any people, who by clrcum
dollars with our own. This would stance are segregated from the gen
constitute an Investment carrying a eral mass of citizens, must have a.
Dtf. E". A. WALKER,
Treasurer Kansas City Medical
Society,
OFFICERS AND DISTINGUISHED PERSONNELS OF THE NATIONAL MEDICAL ASSOCIATION.
1. Ulysses Grant Dailey. President. 2. C. V. Roman. M.D.. Editor-in-Chief Journal N. M. A.. Nashville. Tenn.
3. Dr. Ji A. Kenney, Tuskegee Institute, Ala., ex-President Med. Director Tuskegee Intsitute. 4. George E. Cannon,
M.D., Chairman Executive Board, Jersey City, N. J. 5. W. H. Huff, Secretary Pharm. Section, Chicago. 6. Dr. E. T.
ueiasw, secretary executive Board, Mobile, Ala. 7. Dr. W. G. Alexander, General Secretary, Orange, N. J. 8 Dr.
George R. Ferguson, Asst. Secretary N. M. A., Charlottesville, Va. 9. Dr. A. A. Wyche, M.D., Charlotte, N. C, mem-
Der executive uoara. iu. Dr. k, c. Brown, ex-Vice-president, Editor, Hicnmona, va. n. Dr. J, R. Levy, Treasurer
Florence, S. C. 12. Dr. E. W. Smith, Vice-President Winston-Salem, N. C. 13. A. G. Wallls Pharmaceutical Vice
President of Oklahoma. 14. C. O. Lee, D.D.S., Winston-Sal em, N. C.
first of all, to "gett right," make lessi
noise over our religious persuasions,
and do more towards wholesome
every-day life. We, need to be hon
est, truthful, reliable, We need to
strive to create a better feeling be
tween other races and ourselves to
show them, among other things that
We are pot mere puppets, willing to
do any and everything for mere
filthy lucre that we are not jnere,
tools ready to be purchased and em
ployed even against the best inter
ests of our own people. The greater
the number of citizens who show
the possession qf manhood and
qualities worthy of respect, the great
er the credit due, to the race to which
such citizens belong.
If wo would think beyond today,
banish narrow Ideas and petty dif
ferences, and realize that the
far larger profit than that on a mere
exchange of cash for merchandise,
We would be contributing Individual
effort to our own uplift, and better
ing conditions for our children.
If our consideration would be to
help our own first and others after,
we would spread among ourselves
the vast profit accruing from the
millions of dollars that we spend,
Instead of increasing the strength of
an already stronger race.
NEGRO CANDIDATE.
Attorney William T. Francis of St.
Paul, Minn., has been nominated for
the legislature by the Republicans of
the 38th district, defeating a white
competitor by a large majority at tho
primaries. It is considered that a
nomination In this district is equiva
lent to an election, so the Colored
"friend at tcourt" of their own blood,
If they hope for justice and fair play
In the matter of legislation or civic
privilege.
V
1,100 RACE MEN DESERT SAVAN
NAH, GEORGIA.
Savannah, Go. The Savannah Un
ion Station was a black paradise to
day, when nearly 1,100 Colored labor
ers, ranging in age from 21 to 45
years, started for Philadelphia an
two special trains.
They are to work along the lines of A
the Pennsylvania railroad. A crowd
of 2,500 relatives and friends crowded
Into the station and down to the train
Bhed to see them off. Policemen had
some dltflclulty In restraining the
crowd which surged up agalnnst Un
gates when they were opened to ad
mtt, those who were to board trains.
