The St. Joseph Observer
r
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 191G
NUMBER 46
'M1
IB
)
Ks
I
THEY WILL LEAD
PARTY TO VICTORY
A Democratic Ticket Selected
Which Cannot Help But
Meet Approval of All
NO BETTER MEN COULD
HAVE BEEN CHOSEN this strenuous campaign for It
r brought out the brawn and the blood
of fighting factions but when it was
All of Them Follow Under the Banner all over and the victor had been pro
of Wilson and With That Before claimed, those who at first fought him
Them There Can Be No Such Thing were ready to fight for him. The re
as Failure When the Votes Are suit showed that John M. Crawford
Counted After the General Election had 3,796 to his credit; AI B. Munsey,
to Be Held When the November' 2,801; and John B. Webster, 1,104.
Frost Nip the Republicans. William Henry Frans easily ran
away with George T. Claiborne for
treasurer 'by the score of 4,933 to
The returns are all in the battle of 1
hniiots at the primary election are at
'last thank heaven, all counted-and county highway engineer, was renom
i-8 the winners this fall are all up. abated over William B. Haien, 5,779 tc
reaulred a whole lot of time and an
extra degree of patience for those in-, me coroners race was to me tan cros8 word was uUered or an angry
terested to hear from the seat of war, brush and Forrest Thomas won it. ' ture made( and am the 8teemed"
but It is all over now and it is possi- 2,676, to Dr. W . W. Grays 2,37; Dr. Ncws.Press characterized it as a great
ble even at this late date to give the J- w- Mays. 1,284. and Lyda Hillyard, examp,e o wlre puUlng. And then
majorities and pluralities pf those " ' a ci Fl ht ' th,nk of the ereat KePublican congres-
who will after the first of tho year A ". ! .. . ,sional meeting which convened here
take possession of the offices fori One of the really hot races w-as that Tuesdayand ,s ot over yet-
. . ....... ki-i..u, tt,.ir for the constableshlp of Washington ,,..,., . , .
which they fought and bled-wlth thelr, I Josevh-whlch and a11 l had t0 do ,:vas t0 eleCv, a
Democratic opponents. almost a8 much &s judg-lcup ot sate committeemen which
Of course there were a lso some Re-; shnuId no be so much of a job. as it
publicans nominated but they are now ranUi only required thirty raiutes for the
as they will be a rifle later ,hard they could work. Some aid good Democrats to complete the Job and ad
class that "o ran"; for that is about and m not do so wdl.(Journ
as far as a Republican will get in the.When u M 8lnimered down ,t And this is but a specimen of the
race that comes off in all quarters was found by the returning board that r'Sreat harmony" which exists In the
this fall. George Blackley had received 252; i SP camp here and the gophites are
The State Winners Charles E. Gates, 781; Cecil James. 'soing to "carry Missouri this fall"
In tho state class Senator James a45D. jarae8 J McGreevey, 1,431; at Ieast tnat ls tnelr Proud hoast. Of
A. Reed easily defeated his opponent, ajter j Patten, 1,542, and Roy Pryor, course they take no account of the
winning over Martin 151,976 to 42,279. ' ' ' ' , ' 40,000 Democratic majority that will
Frederick D. Gardner won for gov- Henry A. Felling was elected reg- De polled against them . That to them
ernor over his nearest opponent, John jstrar jn the-First; N. D. Goff in the-'9 a negligible quantity, just in line
M. Atkinson, 84,621 to 46,249. i Second; John Carey in tho Third; -J. wltli the quality of stuff that Candi-
Wallace Crossly for lieutenant gov- p Srlte ln the Fourth; A J DHiey in date 'Hughes is putting up-swind.
crnor won over .Joseph J. Crltes by uj0 Fifth; e. E. Bowlln ln the Sixth r noise and bombast.
106.238 to 66,260. Phil McCollum of , John t woods In the Seventh: Albert V A Hopeless Deadlock
t. Joseph recQlveu ijb.jou.
Jobn'L. Sullivan defeated his mostlxash in the Ninth ward. The Tenth mony which makes angels weep and
formidable adversary, J. Kelly Pool, ward wjj i tue vacancy at a later devils stand up on their hind legs and
98,626 to 97,429. date. dance with joy which characterizes
John P. Gordon got ahead of bis, . tne Republican party in this section
most worrying antagonist, John L. AFTER' THIRTY-SIX YEARS of Missouri and which to all thinking
Bradley, by a total of 116,607 to 66,862. people made Itself again most manl-
For state treasurer George, Mlddle-A Missouri Democrat Who Felt that fest was sn0wn at the meeting of the
kamp had Jio opposition and polled all that He Had to Do Was Republican congressional committee
240,351. -which If you will take off the to Stick which convened In that holy of holies.
first figure 2, will be the Democratic tne nncoln Club, Tuesday afternoon.
majority in Missouri this fall. It pays to sit tight and not rock the : No gooner was the committee, which
Frank McAllister received 103,155 f boat also to keep on tryingr-and you ls made up of four members from Bu.
votes and Joseph T. Davis, his nearest will succeed. J. Worten Keys, "pro-,chanan County and one member from
opponent, 79,770 in the attorney gen-' fesslonal candidate" for sheriff of Sa- ,,ach of the other four counties In the
eral race. e County, finally ls In sight of the district. In session that internlclne war
Arch Woodson of our own city re- goal of his ambitions after thirty-six broke out and It Is still going on.
ceived 129,209 votes and Charles E. years of effort. He won the Demo- John AlbU8 got up and raade a three
Stark 96,108 for supreme judge, Dlvl- cratic nomination for Abe office of n,fnute Splel, then Bill Tllson of Noda
sion No. 1. . , sheriff at the recent primary, and as way pU8hed his head above his seat.
Fred L. Williams for Judge supreme the county normally is iJemocratic, he 8ald a few gelect words and the noise
court, Division No. 2, had 149,294, to probably will be elected in November. was 0n and will not. be ended in time
Glendy B. Arnold's 74.859. ' When It was discovered he was for the Iourth district to be repre-
Ewlng C. Bland for the Kansas City , nominated, his friends to whom it gnted at the state convention In J5f-
court of appeals received 40,037 votes , was a pleasant, but somewhat breath- t rgon city next Tuesday. Of course
.ya Major J. Lilly's 31,107. Lilly being , taking surprise went to tho Keys lt makes, practically no difference to
:bis nearest opponent. home and aroused the nominee at 1 tne 8tae if tns district is not repre-
Charles F. Booher, the present in-
TS. cumbent, defeated B. Raleigh Martin,
.' iis vote being 5,434 to Martin's 5,189.
V The County Ticket
A In the race for county officers there ,
was much Interest displayed and while
' the vote was the lightest for years ltt
was decisive for the boys who failed '
to win. Judge Tom B Allen for Judge
ot Division No. 1. and Oscar McDanlel '
for prosecuting attorney had no oppo-'
. iinn . ma Prr.w .1 Hauler for
fltVUf MU - ....... -. -- - -
representative in f.he Second District
and Mrs. Mary Williams for public ad-j
mlnistrator. Allen received 7,779 votes,.
Staedtler 1,808 votes. McDanlel 7,273
votes, and Miss Williams 7,548 votes
to their and her credit,
v In the race for judge for Division
No. 3 William H. Uts received 3,992
Thomas F. Ryan 3,169 and James C
Growney 571.
" For representation ln the First dis
trict Ed SwarU received 882, and Roy
Rush 717 votes.
In the Third district for representa
tive Ben F. Stuart bad 1,187 votes lo
his credit and W. T. Cllue 919.
In the Fourth .representative district
J. D. Roblnlln secured 888; C. W.I
:syer.679 and Walter Edson 411.
-y
i ' .Tne tounty Juno"
In the race for the county ludushln
for tho First district, Marvin Kliknmn,
the present Incrmbont, received 2,263
Alonro A. Uostlck. 1,868; and J. K.
lA-xt-i; 578.
In Hip Second district .Vlllinm Bitli.i
tri present incumbent, was given Sfi'V I
Su. Balsfger, 280; Joseph J. Brown.
293; John T. Clark. 109, H 11 foil
uel!. 406; James H. Leonarl. 6S: J'.l
'll Oatman, 446, and John W. Tells-
rrow, 237.
The sheriff's race was probably the
must exciting of all of the races pulled
off at tbo primary. It was In fact one
of those things (that our own Champ
Clark calls a "hoss race," but like all
other races, It ended when tho bell
tapped for the close of the polls. When
the results were counted It was found
'that Otto Thelsen had 2,954; Joe
5 Gates, 856; James C. HunL 267; Tom
Moore, 2,786; Charley Illchardson,
467; and Will Wyatt, 461 votes to
their credit.
Assessor Race a Hot One
There was a whole lot more than
excitement in the race for assessor. It
wait In rnnlltv nnp nf tho fpntiirnn nf
2,316.
Hay N. Carglll, t
.the present efficient
t0
1,641.
a. Verrege ln tho Eighth; and R.
o clock to tell him the good news.
They also demanded a speech, and . vriIT wr.Mncn WHV?
here is what he said: DID YUU WUWUtK wnw
"Dear friends, this ls the way I have
long sought and mourned because I Democrats in St. Joseph Wear Minia.
found It not." ture Shovels, Hoes, Rakes and
It is Keys' boast that he never di-' Spades in Lapel Buttonhole
rectly solicited a vote from an Indl-j ,
vldual voter. He owns two good farms .... ...
and is considered well to do. , Have 'ou waIkeU dow" U,e l re,ets
m his recent speeches he would ;here and con,e acr08,8 thf path ,of a
hv .mhinr nu th fniiwin, tn'Bood Democrat wearing in his lapel
... HW.k.....n ..W W..V"U0 W ,
say
"it is useless for me to tell you what
I want, as I have been a standing
candidate for sheriff for thirty-six
years. If I am not nominated and
elected this time I will run again, and
keep running until I get so old that
I must die, and then I will leave in
my will a provision that one of my
two sons must take up where I left
off and keep on running for sheriff
until he ls elected. Some man by the
name of Keys Is going to be sheriff
of Saline County some time."
MORRIS AND THE "PORK
BARREL"
The "steemed" Gazetto almost
dally howls, bawls, and snorts
i . ,. , . .., , .
" " luo ""lu' "aovD ul lUD "'"
ernmenf'pork barrel." Now Just
to call attention of our Charlev to
a. ... -....... .- . .. ..
tne rem use ot tnat porn oarrei,
It is not out of place to ask if
there was a harder oor more con-
slstent worker to save Lake Con-
rary than C. D. Morris of St. Jo-
seph? And that $75,000 which
he worked so hard to help to
Ret comes out of that same old
"pork barrel."
IREPUBL1GAN HARMONY OF SUB-
I IMF AMI Hill VARIFTY
wm a m saw f' mmmm m -v bt sum m m
This Was Decidedly Manifest at This
Week's Session of the Grand Old
Party Committee
And as a Result of This Brand of Har
mony the Fourth District Will
Be Unrepresented
-
Talk about your monkey and parrot
limes; talk about your feuds and your
Intrigues; talk about the Democratic
1 concrresslonal meeting which lasted
jUst thrty minutes, and in which not a
That beautiful harmony the har-
buttonhole an assemblage ot hoes,
spades, rakes and shovels? Did you
wonder why? Did you ask him what
the group represented? You wonder
why you never saw It before and you
cudgel your brains for the reason.
If he wore an Elk pin, you would
naturally Infer that he was a member
of the B. P. O. E., and for the same
reason If you saw a square and com-
Dass that be was a Mason, mui wuy
... .!!. All f .nn
ima eru"P " i"
you reiuciuuci ui
'anil that while he may be a banker'
I merchant or broker, still he Is a Gard-
,
I
WHY NOT DO THAT HERE?
Little Rock, Ark., has hit upon a
... , ,, 4i,n..a nn.
business that is far simpler and more
delicate than the means employed In
""" l" '"v ""' w..,-
.. -... I ...Ul.t. Mll., A..
otner cities, uhu uku iiukui iuio a
valued relief to St. Joseph. The Ar-
kansas city's artistic method ls to pro-
hlblt tho Jitneys on .e main streets,
'to raise the bond ot each to $3,000.
require maintenance of a fixed sched-
ule from 6 a? m. to 9 p. m. all this by
city ordinance, which provides also
that the act can't be submitted to
popular vote,
sented for no Republican will get very
far ln Missouri in November, but there
might have been Just -a trifle of
vertlslng for St. Joseph had a
gatlon been sent down to assemble
with the other leaders of the forlorn
nPe. '
The noise In the committee started
after an innocent motion which tied1
the delegates had been put through,1
which -was to the effect that the Bu
chanati County member of the state
committee should be selected first and
the other member after the-St. Joseph
member was selected. The country
members swallowed the bait, hook and
all, but it was not long until they saw
how they had been worked, and then wears whiskers or any budding young- j Qf ln these word8.
they got sore, and the result is that ster with the yellow catlicks starting, ' ' '
no one will be. at Jefferson City Tues- on his face who does not know that "Just ce Hu reference to our
day-unless great gobs of harmony genial and good-natured barber shop Prosperity as temporary is at best
paste can be spread over the commit- proprietor named Gus A. Garich? If n sumption." How does he know
tee Monday afternoon when it meets you do not know him. just stroll upw do you know how do I know
for the final tug of war. Edmond street near Eighth street and I u seeraQs " Prett; rea1' As on '
John Albus wants the place because you will see a very neat barber shop abou' 19 t0 20 centf of our exPrts
he sajs that he stayed here all sum- with a lot of clean looking young fel- hav been "Mittens of war. our pros
mer and fought the battles ot the lows transforming bearded bandits (as! erltr no charged to the Euro
party. Walter Head wants the place wives and sweethearts declare) tat0 Jean war. Besides that any man that
r ...... . Vnnwo nnvtlilnp Vnnwa th.it war anv-
because he says he is entitled to it
nrA ttmm f nil nm
IU im1t jllil IC,
ci., -.,j ci... .
After John had-fiatfe his t&ygU'KeryUnc he has wandered into 're-else. Tho amount of legitimate
and his announcement the committee the country, and It has been the banee troyed by It always overbal-
balloted. The result showed a tie. of his life to return to the dutsy old " the emergency trade created
5 and 5. Then the boys balloted again city with all its heat and whiskers. D "
..-.., -, ., . ,r.. u. , a . ., ih.u f,m Wilson as a Leader
anil again anu again ana men
some more. They balloted and jawedv
then they Jawed and balloted, but It and get next to :sature, nut nis spien
was always the same old 5 and 5. did business always drew him back.
They balloted all afternoon and then
adjourned till 8 o'clock, when they
balloted some more till 2:30 a. m.
hut i ii-no hii tho snmo niri 5 tn a.
Then they quit until the next day.
,! th.n h.. mU.iMiT,0 ,.,0n" mm in
and tried to wigwag their Incantations, "How much?"
but still with no result. Oil and water Gus gave him a figure, and, to his
would not mix. In desperation the surprise, the would-be purchaser
weary and tongue sore delegates then agreed to it. Accordingly, a forfeit of
adjourned until 2 o'clock next Monday $500 was to be placed by Garich in
afternoon, when they will have an- the ,bank. which he did, and the pur
other tug of war, and if the threats chaser drew, a check of $1,000 on a
of both sides hpld good It still will Kansas City bank and left lt on de
be 5 to 5, and the study warriors of posit.
the G. O. P. will have no representa- Now Gus was happy, for he dreamt
tlon at Jefferson City. of his cozy farm he had ln mind as
This Republican harmony Is the soon as the money in the sale price
sublime article.
. . .o, . n. mi . imti a k
of the stranger to take possession. He
signed no bill of sale nor contract and
They Will Be the New Democratic wouWn.t unUl the good old cash was
State Chalrmeri for the Fourth m n,g nand
DlstrIet Yesterday he went to the bank to
' inquire if the purchaser had sent the
The congressional committee for the balance of the purchase price to the
Fourth district met at the court bouse bankers and It Is said on good author
Tuesday afternoon and selected new lty that Gus nearly fainted when the
officers for the coming two years; i banker said, "Say, Gus, here's our
elected two members of the state com- $500 and ou can frame this $?,000
mlttee and In fifteen minutes ad-' check. That fellow has no money In
Journed in a perfectly happy mood and any Kansas City bank, but he has a
the members returned home. Inter-1 lot that belongs to bankers there. He
ested parties who had axes to grind floated a lot of bad checks down there
tried to Interrupt the harmony, but the and the police want him real bad."
delegates were there for business and Gus still shaves people at the same
to further the Interests of Democracy old stand, but he is rather touchy if
and refused to take part or become In-
terested n st Joseph factional mat-
torfl
I When the convention met Hon. I. R.
.illllom nt Cnvnnnnh tho rhnlrninn
-...., -
of tho 0,d commlttee raade a brlef talk
ana tn tue auem;e ut uai, mi-
tell, who is serving nts country on tne
Mexican border, read the call. Mr.
Williams was unanimously re-elected
chairman, Dr. E. M Miller of Mound
city secretary and George W. Akers'vr. Colbv accented an Invitation to act
,.-,. -
of this city treasurer. ion a Progressive committee which is
G. Robert Ellison of Maryvllle,. to have a co-operative relation with
.'ltnn..r V nilllnnhnm nt PlattA Oftv.tho floninPrntlo rnmnnlim fOmmlttfC.
iirm; ". t'ni".6..... ... ..,
and T. J. Lysaght of St. Joseph were
placed in nomination for state com-
mltteeraan, and Ellison and Dllllng-
ham were elected as the two to build
the platform and manage this end of
the state campaign and make them -
selves more than useful In carrying,
Missouri this fall for Wilson and all of
tbe Democratic ticket.
NEW POLICE BOARD
Crandall and McDonald Suspended
and Davison, Cox and Davis
Appointed
The long drawn out controversy
over tho St. Joseph police department
management, assumed a new pnase
when Thursday afternoon Acting Gov
ernor Painter wired Dr. U. G. Crandall
and Joseph I. McDonald, the two com
missioners, asking their resignations
and later notifying them that if they
were not forthcoming by noon yester
day he would oust them. No atten
tion was paid to the request by the
two commissioners and at 12:01 yes
terday afternoon Painter notified them
of their suspension.
He then appointed W. F. Davis, J.
E. Davison and James E. Cox to fill
the vacancies. Governor Major is out
of the state on his vacation.
At a meeting of the old board Thurs
day afternoon all of the old officers of
the department were reappointed, and
ten patrolmen were dropped from the
payroll temporarily, on account of
ad-'iack of funds to pay them. Those
dele-!dr0Di,ed were: E. A. Smith. William
siaybaugh, James Slaybaugh, W. R.
'rjuscb, O. M. McVey, John Esders,
William T. Wise. Fred White and Ed
ward Kieffer.
BOUGHT BUT NOT SOLD
Gus A. Garich Still Wonders if All ,
Nuts Grow on Trees or Come from
Kansas City
Is there a man ln St. Joseph who).
smooth, pink-faced geirtlemen. mat si
fllic' nlaPCk
Pnr tViA nnct vpar Him ha iipavph a.
nv uus iuiicu iui a un..- muc .......
where he could don a pair of overalls
Last week a well dressed young man
walked Into his place and asked Gus
if he cared to sell his shop.
"Yes. if I can get my price, but I
doubt If you will care to pay it." was
the answer.
was passed. While Gus was dayjgi Ior affirmative, constructive, pro
dreaming, still he kept his business lgresslve legislation. One of the few-
acumen busy and awaited the return
you ask too many questions.
... nw bi stj .! at er onncCUCi T
W"l """""'" nww.--.-.
New York, Aug. 16. Balnbrldge Col-
... ....,. nnmlnoia1 Tlwiutum nnnao.
UJ, .nu ............v,. ...... ..
velt for the presidency at the Progres -
slVe national couvenuou m v.uira(,u,.
dec ared himself in favor oi tne re-
election of President Wilson. In a
letter to Vance McCormlck, chairman
j Gf the Democratic national committee.
' - . . ..... ,
, ... ... - .-.-.
And They Will Neighbor Dobyns
The ticket nominated In Holt county cratic stump-speaker will have to ask
by the Republicans Is a good one fiom'jn ,1 campaign is, "What does Mr.
top to bottom, yet there are some fool HUKhes posltlvelyjiromise to do about
' Republicans who are Insinuating that anything that Mr Wilson has not al-
we are going to have a Democrat nffi-
cer or two stop such talk now Corn -
ing Mirror 1
!J.
SHARP W I MS
SNAPPY
REJOINDER
Takes Hughes to Task at Every
Turn in His Tirade on
President Wilson
SAYS OUR PROSPERITY
IS PERMANENT
The Witty Mlsslstlpplan Goes After
the Man Who Is Running Without
an Issue and Deftly Removes a Few
Select Sections of Hughes Cuticle,
Whose Utterances He Designates
as "Blind Expressions of Partisan
Hate."
There Is no one In the South who is
a more ready thinker and abler rea
soner and orator than Senator John
Sharp Williams of Mississippi. John
Sharp's name does not belie him, for
his tongue is just as sharp as his
pseudonym, as everyone who has gone
against him in the senate halls of
Washington will readily and with
crestfallen mein admit.
The late speeches ot Candidate
Hughesln which he talks wildly yet
glibly of things that his talk Indicates
he knows but little about have aroused
Williams, and he Is now out in one of
his characteristic statements wherein
, Wllrhpa hnxc nnrt whprA fn ,
whero on the globe never of itself
',.., .!,. ..,..:.,. . ,ni or,,-.
uiuuui ii uaiJvi iuj ivs auj lsuu; ciuj
"It Is rich to hear Mr. Hughes say
that 'the president has followed, not
led,' when a whole lot of gray-haired
senators at Washington are charging
him every day with having led too
much. The truth Is that he Is about
the first president since Andrew Jack-
son died that has ln fact led. Even
Lincoln followed, as certain war gov-
ernors learned when they wanted im
mediate emancipation and various
other things.
"His promise to 'aid labor' and his
promise that he will 'block spoilsmen
are only the platitudes 'of politics.
Everybody says 'he will before he is
elected, and a great many people think
they will, and some few like Wilson
live up to It.
"The truth is that Wilson's adminis
tration has been almost without paral-
apparently affirmative things ln Mr.
Hughes' speech ls his advocacy of a
rural credits bill. What we have al
ready done he advocates.
"If, as Mr. Hughes announces, 'di
plomacy Is prevention' (I suppose, by
the way, he means prevention of ca
lamity and war. and all that) then the
function of diplomacy under Wilson
ought to suit Mr. Hughes. Mr. Hughes
says he doesn't understand what Wil
son meant by 'strict accountability.'
Apparently the kaiser did understand
it.
Doesn't Measure Up
"His speech Is in as many words as
were ever used by any candidate for
the presidency In mere blind expres
sions of antagonism, negation, parti
san bate and criticism, and ln as few
words as any In the affirmative asser
tion of a fixed position. 4- am abso-
lntely sincere ln saying that Demo-
I . ...- it.i . -. j .v
crais eveu wuo unumu uuiuuru iuc
1 man and rather adraired the letter
wnlcn no published Immediately alter
h nominate. hav fplt sorrv for
njm on account of his Incapacity to
measure up to the present situation,
even from the Republican standpoint;
which Is rather a hmlted one. If
Roosevelt had been In his place and
could not have found an issue, he
L....M l..iA m.,ta ..n.. .Amotintr n, onv
numu nai- mouc uuc suu...." . o..,-
how.
-The only question that any Demo-
ready done, or which the Democratlo
,
(Continued on Page Five)
A-, V -.?-
