B ARRIS DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 133.
UAH RE, 'VKHMOXT, SATURDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916.
MUCK. OXE CENT.
THE
TAKE WHOLE
OF VILLAGE
SHIPPING BILL
PASSED SENATE
French Complete Occupation
of Fleury on Ver
dun Front
WON THEIR WAY
FOOT BY FOOT
Intense Fighting Kept Up
All Night Long, Paris
Announces
Paris, Auij. 19. The remainder of the
ruins on the edge of Fleury village were
captured last night by the French, the
war oflico announces. The battle con
tinued violently all night loiiff and the
French won their way forward foot by
foot.
One of the Most Bitterly Contested Leg
islative Struggles of Wilson Ad
ministration Ended By Vote
of 38 to 21.
BULGARIANS LOST
AND HURLED BACK
They Attacked Entente Positions Along
the Serbian Border and Sustained
Enormous Losses.
Saloniki, Aug. 1!). Bulgarian troops
who attacked positions of the entente
allies along the Serbian frontier Aug.
17, were repulsed and thrown back upon
their original positions after sustaining
enormous losses, says a Serbian oflicial
btatement.
ARE NEAR COMBLES.
Anglo-French Drive Continued to Gain
in That Direction.
London, Aug. 1!). Assaults by French
and British forces against German posi
tions north of the Souinie in France have
resulted in the gaining of additional
ground by the attackers, according to the
si.ritish and French war office. The
French advance was in and around Mau
rcpas, the scene of much hard lighting
during the. past few weeks and the Brit
ish gain was in the direction of Ginchy
and Guille.uiunt, near the southern end of
their section of the Somme front. The
Anglo-French attacks, London says, took
place along the whole line from Pozieres
to the feomine.
The gains reported by Paris and Lon
don were in the center of the German
positions on the Somme front and mark
another step in the Anglo-French ad
vance toward Combles. Frenoh troops
gained more ground in the village of
Maurepas, following the stopping of Ger
man counter attacks hear the village.
Calvary hill, southeast of the village, was
carried by assault and the French posi
tion on the Maurepas'-CTcry ' road also
was extended.
British troops advanced successfully in
the region of Ginchy and Guillemont and
seized more German positions. London
mentions no gain on any other part of
the front. The Anglo-British forces cap
tured more than 400 prisoners in their
advance.
The French offensive continues on the
right bank of the Meuse, in the Verdun
region, and Paris chronicles the capture
of two fortilied redoubts northwest of
the Thiaumont work. Progress also is
reported for the French east of the
Vaux-Chapitre wood.
Berlin reports attacks by the trench
and British forces north of the Somme,
but says all of them were repulsed ex
rept one by the British in the direction
of Martinpuich." A French gain around
Fleury in the Verdun region is admit
ted. There has been little activity on the
eastern front, according to the official re
ports. Most of the fighting has been in
the Carpathian mountain region, where
both the "Russians and Austro-Germans
claim to have made some slight advances.
Tetrograd says the Austro-Germans are
attacking in Galicia, but with no suc
cess. The Teutonic allies have taken the
offensive on the Greco-Serbian frontier,
north of Saloniki, and Berlin reports the
'capture of the Greek town of Fiorina
from Serbian troops. This movement
probably is in answer to the recent en
tente allied activity on the same front
Artillery bombardments are taking
place on the Austro-Italian front around
Goritzia. Rome claims an advance for
the Italians in the Trentino.
Washington, IV C, Aug. 10. The gov
ernment shipping bill paused the Semite
last night by a vote of 3i to 21, ending
one of the most bitterly contented legis
lative struggles of the Wilson admini
t nit ion. In the last Congress the meas
ure precipitated a Democratic revolt and
a filibuster which forced postponement
of many important bills but, revised eo
as to minimize the government operation
feature, the measure received yesterday
unanimous Democratic support and solid
Republican opposition. It already has
passed the House.
rassnge ot the bill paved the way for
consideration of the revenue bill begin
liing next week, and revived the hopes
of administration leaders that the leg
islative decks might be completely
cleared for adjournment bv Sept. 1
While the Senate wa disposing of the
shipping measure, the House agreed to
three conference reports in the general
legislative clean-up and, despite the
presidents veto of the army appropria
tion bill, party managers now believe all
pending business can bo put through
speedily.
The shipping hill provides for creat
tion of a government shipping board to
acquire and operate ships for rehabili
tation of the American merchant marine
and appropriates .0,000,000 for tnat pur
pose to be raised by the sale of Panama
canal bonds. Several important amend
ments were agreed to just before the
final vote, among them one bv Senator
Hoke Smith, which would reduce the sal
ary of the shipping board members from
$10,000 to $7,500 a year. At the last
minute vain efforts were made by Sen
ator Borah to attach the immigration
bill to the shipping measure. He first
offered an amendment incorporating the
literacy test section in a provision to
prevent transportation of aliens to
American shores. The amendment was
voted down, 20 to 3f. He then offered
the entire immigration bill as a rider,
and it was rejected 22 to 37.
Chairman Simmons of the finance com
mittee said last night he thought the
revenue bill could be disposed of by next
Saturday night. It will be called up
Monday and Republicans have assured
the chairman their opposition speeches
will occupy only two or three days. To
day the Senate is debating and probably
will pass the workmen's compensation
bill.
The shipping bill as passed by the Ren
ate would create a shipping hoard com
posed of five commissioners appointed by
the president, the House provision mak
ing the secretaries of the navy and com
merce ex-officio members having been
eliminated. The board would be author
ized, either directly or indirectly, through
a corporation or corporations to be or
ganised, to build, purohase, lease or
charter vessels suitable for use in ocean
commerce. ; , -r
The bill further would authorize the
shipping board to organize one or more
corporations with a total capital stock
LARGE
LINER
SUNK
Italian Steamship Stampali
Sent to the Bottom by a
Submarine, According to
a Despatch Received by
Lloyds', but the Casualties
Are Not Known
WAS RETURNING
TO UNITED STATES
Her Agents Think She Had
a Small Passenger List and
She Carried a Crew of 170
Men The Stampali Car
ricd Guns for Defensive
Measures
HAD SUGAR ON SNOW.
Stowe "Old Home Week" Cflebrator
Had Novel Mid-Summer Feast
Stowe, Aug. A large nomlier of
people enjoyed the unusual treat of
warm maple sugar served on real snow
at thcAkeloy Memorial building jester
day afternoon. The committee in charge
consisted of Mr. and Mr. O. E. Luce,
Mr.- and Mrs. M. C. Lovejoy, Mr. and
Mrs. F. C. Rarstow and Mr. and Mrs.
If. E. Jenny. The possibility of such a
treat was due to the foresight of Mr.
Jenny, who is in the habit of storing
a few barrels of snow in his icehouse for
use in summer.
Among the visitors in twin are Mrs.
G. F, Jteecher and daughter, Catherine,
of Woonsocket, R. I., Mr. Ruth Robin
son and Miss Kate Robinson of Burling
ton, Mr. and Mrs. Howard Thomas of j
Florida and Mr. and Mrs. I. I). Sailor of
Philadelphia.
1 he closuur event of the week was
the entertainment at the Akelcy Me
morial building last evening by Mar
ion Ilertha Clark. ,
The score of the Old Home week base
ball game between Stowe and Morctown
teams was fl to 2 m favor of-More
town. The winners in the contcts of
Old Home week sjKirts were as followst
100-yard dash for boys under 17, Rich
ard Chase, time 12 seconds: 100-yard
dash for boys over 17. Kathburn Me-
Mahon, time 12a seconds : o yard dash
for boys under 16, Donald Sollies, time
seven seconds; running broad jump, in
which there were 3.1 contestants. Rich
ard Chase, distance l.'i fret and eight
inches. These, four events will be estab
lished as regular field - events for the
annual Old Home week, the records to
be-kept on the books of the association.
The 50 yard dash for girls under lrt was
won by Annie Crosby, time ten seconds.
Other events planned were cancelled on
account of the hall game.
The Old Home week poem, "Where
Stowe Begins," was written by Mrs
Martha Campbell Biker or" llvde Park.
r Perhaps the oldest resident who par
PRESIDENTS
MAY REFUSE
Heads of Railroads Are Said
to Be Opposed to Wil
son's Plan
MEN ACCEPTED
THE PROPOSITION
Another Conference Held
To-day with the Rail
road Heads
T 1 a 1ft i . t . i
""""'n' AUP- "n iieinated in the festivities of Old Home
ship Stampalia, which plies between week- was Mrs. T.vdia A. Slia'w, M years
Xew York and Italian ports, has been
sunk, says a Lloyds dispatch. The
Stampalia was a passenger liner, and
in common with other Italian liners, she
had mounted guns for protection from
submarines. Apparently she was sunk
on her return voyage to the United
States.
Agents of the company think she car
ried a comparatively small number of
passengers. Her crew numbered 170.
There has been some increase recently
in submarine activity. The naval ex
pert on the Paris Temps wrote Thursday
t-hat German submarine campaign
against merchant ships was again in full
swing, in accordance with the German
of ace, who attended the social Tue
day evening and the spirts and ball
came Thursday. Mrs. Shaw has been
a life-long resident of Stowe,
were riding, at the intersection of Cly
note to the United States in February, j mer street and the Shelburne road, short
AUTO SMASHED CARRIAGE
Occupants of Two Vehicles Somewhat
Injured Near Burlington.
Burlington, Aug. 10. A Cole tourins
car, No. 2.00O, oivned by I". C. Miles of
270 College street and driven by his son,
Jack, who was graduated lust June from
Borilentdwn Military institute, crashed
into a team in which Joseph W, Lee of
11 Johnson street and a voung woman
in which it was said that merchant ship
carrying guns could not be considered a
peaceful ships.
No Passengers Aboard.
...Xew York, Aug. Stampalia agents
say they believe the Stampalia requis
itioned and in the service of the Italian
government. In this cise Bhe would have
not exceeding $50,000,000, the govern-j no passengers aboard.
ment, through the board, to subscribe
for a majority of the stock. The cor
porations would be empowered to pur
chase, construct, enuip, lease, charter
and operate merchant vessels in the com
merce of the United States. Operation
of ships by the government corporations
would be limited to a period of five years
after the close of the European war.
The bill would give the proposed ship
ping board regulatory authority over
water carriers of the country in inter
state commerce with power to regulate
rates, but would exempt from this regu
lation inland water traffic except that on
the Great Lakes.
LINCOLN BIRTHPLACE
IS NOW PROPERTY
OF THE NATION
TROPICAL STORM .
HITS TEXAS COAST
National Guardsmen Lose Tents at
Brownsville Army Stores Were
Ruined.
San Antonio. Tex., Aug. 19. With an
srmy of wireless reports stating there
had' been comparatively little damage
and no known loss of lives in the Browns
ville district, the chief anxiety centered
to day on the situation at Corpus Chris
ti as a result of the tropical storm which
struck Texas on the Gulf coast.
The only loss of life was the sinking
in the Mexican gulf of the small pilot j
t-teamer Pilot Poy. The crew of ten'
were drowned. The storm played havoc
among the army camps in the Browns
ville district, probably half the tents
having been blown down. Fully 30.000
National Guardsmen and regular soldiers
were sleeping in public buildings in
Brownsville last night. The guardsmen
President Formally Accepts It Exercises
at Hodgensville, Ky,
Sept. 4.
Washington, Aug. 10. President Wil
son yesterday formally accepted for the
United States the birthplace of Abraham
Lincoln at Hodgensville, Ky., authorized
by a recent act of Congress. Formal
ceremonies transferring the property to
the government will be held at Hodgens
ville, Sept. 4, with the president as the
chief speaker.
TELL OF SEA COLLISION.
Survivors of Fishing Schooner Oriole
Reach Gloucester, Mass.
Gloucester, Mass., Aug. 10. How the
fishing schooner Oriole of Gloucester was
run down by a liner off Seal island anil
four men lost, was told yesterday when
the survivors of the crew arrived in
Gloucester.
They report the schooner was struck
Saturday night by the Norwegian steam
ship Borchild. There was a dense fog at
the time and the men on the liner did
not hear the foghorn that was sounded
on the schooner.
Most of the men who escaped did so
by leaping from the rigging of the
schooner to the steamer's deck when the
crash came. The men who were lost
were Charles Stropel, Logell Boudrot,
Frank Doucette and Edward Moriartv.
The schooner was on its way home from
Green Bank with more than 120.000
pounds ot nsh aboard, the result ot a
three-weeks' trip.
lv before 9 o'clock last evening, making
kindling wood of the wagon and burling
its occupants into the road. The woman
was badly shaken up and somewhat
d7ed by. the shock and, Lee complained,
of injuries to his back. Arthur Moore,
son of Mrs. A. B. Moore of loomis street,
received a slight cut on his nose when
he was thrown against the windshield of
the car by the force of the impact, while
young Miles and Stanley Converse, an
other passenger in the ear, were not hurt.
The fender of the automobile and one
mudguard were broken. lice's horse, ;
freed from all except the two front
wheels of the buggy, ran down Clymcr
street and up Pine street, being caught
about an hour after the mishap, near the
Van Xcss house.
FOUND DEAD IN HIS OFFICE.
Dr. Daniel C. Potter Who Was Accused
By Mayor Mitchel.
Xew York, Aug. 10 Dr. Daniel C.
Potter, who was jointly accused by May
BILL UP TO WILSON.
DIED AFTER LONG ILLNESS
Morris A. Thomas, Prominent Citizen of
Salisbury.
Salisbury. Aug. 10. Morris A. Thom
as, one of the most prominent and influ
ential citizens of this town, died at his
home yesterday after a long illness.
Mr. Thomas was a member of the
House of Representatives in 1012. was commission for higher freight rates,
chairman of the committee' on municipal On the surface, the threatened strike
corporations and also perved on the com- J appeared nearer to-day than at any time
mittee on highways and bridges. He I s'nee the negotiations at the White Hons
was well known in financial circles, lie- lhgan. but administration officials con
ing treasurer and eastern agent of the I tinm-d to b-dieve some concessions would
Washington, D. C, Aug. 10, President
Wilson's plan for settlement of the
threatened nation-wide railroad strike
M as accepted yesterday by the represen
tatives of the employes and taken under
consideration by the officials of the rail
roads, with many indications that they
would reject it to-day.
With the situation thus apparently at
a deadlock, the only hope in the situation
lay in reports that the railroad officials
might suggest a counter proposal torm
irtg the basis of a settlement, or that one
side or the other might recede from its
present position.
Jhirtv-one presidents and ranking ol-
ficials of the great railroads received
from the president yesterday afternoon
his plan for the adoption of an eight -hour
day, regular pro rata pay lor overtime
and creation of a federal commission to
investigation collateral issues. They told
him they would like to consider the ques
ts. n and would report back with the
committee of managers which has been
conducting negotiations.
At the same time the general commit
tee of fi-10 representative of the em
ployes were approving the president's
plan by a large majority and soon after
the railroad officials left the White House
the four heads of the railroad brother
hoods delivered to the president a letter,
notifying him of the vote. The employes'
committee will remain here at the presi
d nfs call. J
While the railroad officials would make
no forma! statement, they revealed very
clearly their opposition to Mr. Wilson's
plan and indicated that they would press
further their offer to arbitrate all the
points at issue.
In spite of these developments, it was
reported the officials might suggest
counter proposal based on the acceptance
of the eight-hour day and arbitration of
all other points, instead of the investiga
tion by a federal commf-jsinn proposed
under the president's plan. It was stated
positively, however, that the officials had
reached no definite decision on their tu
tur course.
In case the president finds no hope of
settlement during his conference with the
railroad officials to-day, he probably will
summon to Washington some of the
powerful financiers of the country serv
ing as directors of the railroads. Admin
istration officials said he had by no
means given up hope of effecting a settle
ment and was determined that it shall be
reached, if possible, before the represen
tatives of both sides now here leave
Washington.
In their informal statements the rail
road officials insisted on arbitration on
the ground that if they gave in this time
it would mean the abandonment of the
principles of arbitration, and because j
they feared that if they granted the
eight -hour day with its consequent, added
expenses without resort to arbitration it
would prejudice any appeal they might
make later to the interstate commerce
road presidents and their committee
managers.
The railroad presidents had prepan
to unniit a written statement ot tin
position to 1'rt siiient Wilson, which it was
said might possibly be IIiihI. It Was
planned to make it public later.
It is understood that the railroad prea
idents were unshaken in their intention
to stand out for arbitration and that
their statement would be a jnsificatioii
of their iition for the public.
FARMERS POURED
INTO BARRE BY
THE HUNDREDS
Great Field Day Meet of the Farm Bu
reaus of Washington and Orange
-Counties Was Indicated
at Noon.
;!$1,000 TAKEN
FROM STATION
Burglars Made Big Haul at
The Weirs, N. H.
Last Night
Barre surrendered without a struggle
this morning when hundreds of farmers
from Washington and Orange counties
representatives of the two county farm
bureaus, took possession of the city and
pitched their tents at the Avers street
driving park. The final sortie of the
agriculturists and the success that ha
crowned their drive means that they will
have the citv very much to themselves
all day. It is theirs to do a good deal
as they please on the occasion of the
first joint picnic of the two farm uu
reaus. County Agent F. H. Abbott and
K. H. Loveland of Randolph, the Orange
county agent, were estimating ea,rly to
day that a crowd of 1,500 people would
participate in the doings at the park
Others who have been active in the picnic
plans regarded the estimate as conserva
tive.
Boards of trade in Barre and Montpe
lier were both active in making the visit
ors feel at home and some of the best
features of the entertainment to be pro-
ided for the picnickers are m charge of
the two or?ani;rations. From the outset
the Barre Board of Trade has been work
ing in co-operation with Agents Abbott
and Ixiveland and the two county com
mitteemen, C. A. Badger of East Mont
pelier and l!av Thresher of Williams-
town, to make the picnic a red-letter
occasion in the reciprocal relations of the
wo counties. And it looked this morn
ing as though success were about to
crown their effort.
It was "company" day for the wives
and daughters of Washington and Orange
counties and they were not overlooked
in the entertainment (.reparations. At
30 o'clock this morning Mr. Julian
Dimork of West Topsham gave a home
economics demonstration tor tlieir hene-
fit in Howland hall. There was a good
ttendance. At the same hour there was
a stock judging contest in progress at
the park and throughout the forenoon
there was to be something doing all the
time.
Prof. George E. Storey of the Univer
sity of Vermont was to give a stock
judging demonstration on the grounds at
11 oVlock and a basket picnic and social
hour were planned for the noon hour.
There were two claases-of aontest ants in
the stock judging contest, one for boys
under 11 years and the other for men.
This afternoon at 2 o'clock speeches are
to be made by E. S. Brigham of St. Al
bans, stat commissioner of agriculture;
James P. Taylor of Burlington, secretary
of the. Greater Vermont association; H.
W. Collingwood of Xew York, editor of
the Rural New Yorker; and John D.
Wilhird of Greenfield, Mass., secretary of
the Franklin County (Mass.) Farm bureau.
On the baseball diamond the two coun
ties are to settle a little question of su
premacy when Waterbury and Brookfield
me up. All kinds of refreshments were
to be had on the grounds and at noon it
looked as though every provision had
been made for providing the visitors
with all the essentials of a most pleas-
ureable outing.
DID NOT LEAVE
A SINGLE CLUE
Took $600 from B. & M. Sta-
tion'and $400 from
Restaurant
Weirs, X. II., Aug. 10. Burglars se
cured more than $1,000 from the Boston
4 Maine railroad station last night and
escaped without leaving a clue. Of the
total amount taken, $000 was stolen
from the station safe, which was blown
open, from the safe in the restaurant
the burglars obtained $400.
DEATH DUE TO OLD AGE
Mrs. Maria E. Morse of Orange Died at
Age of 82.
Mrs. Maria E. Morse, wife of the late
Charles Morse, passed away at the home
of her eldest daughter, Mrs. .Walter
Ladd, at Cutler Corner, in Orange, last
evening at 0 o'clock, the end being due
to old age and a general breakdown.
Mrs Morse was 82 years, 10 months Hnd
IS days old. Besides the daughter with
horn she resided, she leaves a daughter,
Mrs. Agnes Lombard, in Pittsfield, Mass.,
and a son, Nelson Morse of Randolph.
Surviving also are 14 grandchildren and
two great-grandchildren. The deceased
ved for many years in Pla infield, where
she was widely known and held in high
esteem. Her husband's death occurred
around 25 years ago.
Funeral services will be held at the
home of Walter Ladd at Cutler Corner
Sunday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock. Rev.
W. Hewitt, pastor of the Plaintield
Methodist church, will be the officiating
clergyman, and interment is to be made
in the family lot m the cemetery at
Plaintield Center.
MOXTPELIER
W. T. Brown Mortgage Loan Co. of Tw in
Falls, Idaho, and was also the manager
of the large interests of the Columbus
Smith estate.
Mr. Thomas, who was 5." years old. Is
survived by his wife; one daughter. Miss
Cecile. a student at Middlebnry college;
and his father. Albert Thomas. The fu
neral will be held from the Congreorf f ion-
al church in this plnee Sunday afternoon
afternoon. Heart failure is believed to
have caused death.
spiiacy in the recent wire-tapping in
vestigation, was found dead in his office
Naval Appropriation Measure Accepted ' inlie Emigr 8vi.y9 nk yesterday
4 ' flfrprnonn Heart fflihirp k KpIipvpiI t.i
By National House.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 10. Without
a record vote the Howe yesterday aft
ernoon adopted the final conference re
port on the naval appropriation bill car
rying approximately $312,000,000 and au
thorizing construction of sixteen capital
snips witnin three years,
or Mitehpl with the TJev Fattwr T! ITai-
rel, Monsignor John J. Dunn and Robert I n.t , fv1n'k- wih interment in the West
W. Hebbaru of libel, perjury ami con
I Side cemetery.
TALK OF THE TOWN
D. J. Camp of East Randolph was
among the visitors in the city to-day.
Frank Sartell of Waterbury was
Of this number four battleships and 'Rm',n the business visitors in the city ! animal attacked died. Dr. W. It.
b" made, and that eventually there would
be an agreement.
The group of railroad presidents and
officials who came here in answer to an
invitation from the president conferred
with him less than an hour. After Mr.
Wilson had explained his plan. Hale
Holdcn. president of the Chicago, Burling
ton A Quincy, acting as spokesman, in
firmed the president that the officials'
present could speak only for their indi
vidual roads and that the conference com
mittee of managers was the only body
with power to accept or reject proposals.
It was indicated plainly to Sir. Wilson
fliuf the iiffir'iul Weri' m,'lm,Ml if s4:ind
Mysterious Malady Spreads Among .i,j,ia" the previous attitude of the man-
' Berkshire Bovines. lagers' committee in refusing to accept
b.,.i.i- , , , . ,. , . the eight-hour day, and that the propos
Beikshire, Aug. I!i. A peculiar bovine, i , . 4 ' L , ' w-i
; , , . al was believed To be impracticable. The
disease has been raging with fatal re-I . . . , ,. . ' .. . t,
, .., president was told, however, that the
suits in l,i eases among young cattle 1 , , , . . , ,, .,
. i ., T . , I'li, II ,ll,lll,i I'T- 4.1, ,11 llllllll'l l' ISII" H-
pastured on the farm ot Ladd Andnis. ,'. , . . . ,. , , ,
. , . . ,' turn, and a report made to him to-dav. In
Smith four and !. O. Bowen three. Ev
15 CATTLE KILLED.
TALK OF THE TOWN
four battle cruisers are to be construct
ed immediately. .The Senate adopted the
vpsterday.
X. R. Farnham of Williamstown was
conference report Thursday. It now goes i! f.n?onf th? bu8ine viiu,ra in the dt-v:C Parker of St. Albans
a matter of such far-rrai ltimr import 1101
fh officials said, thrv believed then
ltrit of hnosbure I alls attend,! them I -r , , t
. . . I Mr. ilson rxiilauied to tn railroad
was him, :iiieci v ,,.i ,. m., f;. .! I .,-
! officials that he had drawn up the jdan
to the president for his signature.
Robert Sawyer left this morning for
Portland, Me., where he plans to pass a
vacation of two weeks.
Mrs. Harry A. Kendall of Academy
street is passing the week-end with
friends in Xorthtield and Roxbury.
Alexander Johnson left the city this
morning for Concord, X. H., where he is
to pass a week's vacation with his sis
ter. Dr. W. F. Mann and son, Fay Mann,
of Orange street left this afternoon for
Xew York City, where they will visit
friends and relatives for two weeks.
Frank MePherson, who has been visit
ing in Barre, his former home, for a
week, returned this morning to St. Johns,
P. (,., where he is employed as a granite-
cutter.
F. A. Slay ton. who has been making
preparations during the past week to en
ter his fast horses at the Barton fair
Aug. 23 and 24. shipped four of them this
morning to Barton, where he will groom
them until Wednesday of next week.
A party of 15 young people, members
of the Epworfh league, enjoyed an out
ing last evening, when they journeyed
over to Berlin pond in the Kenyon bus
and enjoyed their lunch on the shores,
after which they spent the evening in
moonlight boating around the pond. The
party returned to the city at a very late ,
hour, nil enjoying a very pleasant time.
In the bankruptcy case of Jared H.
Holt of Barre exceptions to the report
of the trustee, Melvin G. Morse of Hard-
ick, as to certain property being ex
empt, have been filed bv Charles Utley
of Cabot and E. R, Fletcher of Wood
bury, with Referee W. X. Theriault.
Paul Keltv of Brockton, Mass., who
has been spending a vacation in this vi
cinity, is the guest for the day of his
brother, Laurence A. Kelty.
Robert Fisher returned this forenoon
to Burlington after spending a few days
in the city with his wife. Mrs. Fisher
has recovered from the effects of an op
eration and fractured ankle and will
leave for Burlington Monday.
Mrs. Edith Callahan and iittle daugh
ter, Joyce, who have been visiting in the
city for the past six- weeks with Mrs.
Callahan's parents, Mr. and Mrs. E. C.
Moon of State street, returned to-day
to her home in Boston.
A marriage license was issued last
evening by the city clerk to Amie Me
nard, son of Mrs. Mitchell Menard of 12
Barre street, and Mrs. Ruth Ripley of
Xorthtield street.
Mrs. Roy L. Mclntyre of Boston, who
has been visiting in the city with her
mother for the past week, was joined by
her husband last evening and left for
Concord, X. H.
Elirabeth F. Ordway left to-day for
Coniconk. X. H., where she will spend a
week or 10 days with friends.
Mrs. Edwin S. Meigs and children are
spending a week in camp at Woodbury
pond. Jesse King returned to-day from
Woodbury, where he has been for a
week and his family will return Monday.
R. Leslie Mackwell commenced last
night a two weeks' vacation from his
duties in the Phillips' jewelry store and.
with Mrs. Mackwell, left for St. Albans
to spend a week with relatives.
James .Counter, whose farm buildings
were destroyed by Are several weeks
ago, has conveyed the land in East Mont
pelier to A. I. Green, whose farm adjoins
the Counter place. Mr. Counter has
moved his family to the Marcotta house
on upper Main street.
A new "blackboard to be used in mak
ing up the schedule time of trains and
the time of their arrival and departure
arrived at the local Central Vermont sta
tion .this forenoon and will be placed on
the outside of the building. There has
not been any board on the platform for
several months.
Arrangements have been made for a
baseball game Tuesday between the
TALK OF THE TOWN
this niorniiiT
Mr. . Mr. R.Tnb .if Williams. .."I ' " V" " "' ;, 5 ... . i h Mieveil a way must be found for
.... ,. f-- - iiie serum iu suiinm 10 ine siaie laoor- i , , j ,.. ,i ,
nan u.r. Luln. i-iait.ra . , , . . . . .averting a strike. He urged them to
and shoppers in the citv yesterday Z 3 " "T"l demonstrate . spirit of cone -ssion and to
Mrs 1- 4 BiurheA re nriTeil tn her 1 fu '"' r" M : assist him in scttlinc the controversy.
J.o;;f .In - ,""t f h "'" ere cremated to;, nj ht ,., tMU , ,,, anil(li;.r
. -"YVr " . " t" '"" " ll..nir conference at their hotel.
MTh OCK,COrk ! "'Infield intending the funeral of her aunt, Mr.;, Wn nnn,.j to this ,e pasture,
passed through the city yesterday while ! Arvilla Aniegie, of Derby. '
Mrs. Joseph Vancourt and daughter
Miss Ruth Vancourt of Waterbury, vis
ited friends in the city yesterday, re-
THREE NEARLY DROWNED.
Lady at Kennebunk Beach.
on her way to Randolph for a visit with
relatives.
Miss M. Malnati and Mrs. Jeannette .
Bartlett left this morning for Xew York, .'turning to their home this morning.
where they are to pass 10 davs with John and Ralph Brennan. who have
friends. bepn visiting relatives on Maple ave-
Mxs. William Emslie left the citv to-"11"" '",e the flrst f August, left last : Biddeford, Me.. Aug. 10 Three pe-ople
day for Quincy. Mass.. where she w as i meht for their home in ( enter Rutland. : narrow ly e.-waped drowning at Kenrte
called by the illpess of hef brotlier-in-j Harold Potter returned to his home on bunk beaeh, v eterdy.w h n Mis Klean
Iaw, Alexander Emslie. j South Main street this morning after or Farrcl! ot" i'lnladelpi is a. faiht in
I visiting at the home of his uncle. . . an niMertow. ana Howar.l Mutt ot .New-
past ton. M;i-.. and Bryant Wood .f Toled-,
iO.. went to her rc-euo.
Employes" representatives held two
meetings during the day, one of s-vrral
brurs for speechmaking and balloting on
the president's plan, and th oth'T, a
j " i short one, for announcement of the result
; iwo men went to ine itescue l xcung f thP vote.
completion and a part of the foundation
has been laid. The basement extends
along the rear of the block to .the C. W.
Aerill property and the building will
have a width of 20 feet, with room
enough remaining to the east to leave a
sizeable drivov sy.
' A numlier of Barre people were in
j Washington Ust evening to, attend a
j dance given in the town hall by a mim
j ler of the young people of the village.
! Music was futnish.il bv Mr. and Mrs.
I i .... f ... i j l . i. .i :
Snne of the president. epr-sscd thei, 1 , , . , , "
r-fMivii-tirtil Iftvt muht that the n.'i-otm. I ' '
Mrs. James MeGrcgan and daughter,!
Miss Katheryn MeGropan. who have been '
visiting at the home of Mrs. M-Gmgan's ,
young people plin to give a masquerade
unee wit: in a tew week.
John 1! ttinelli f Smith street, a
Irinkwater, of Roxburv, for the
two week..
principally affected were those from 11- ' j,,phter Sirs J Capio of i'pper W sh ' Mr- Frnk "" "" daughter. Miss) Wh le the men were attempting t
l.nois, Iowa and Vriginia. Their camps ' f" ' f), ft f . Cecil Place, of Burlington, arrived in the'hrinn her in she be. -a me frit-Men. d an
were either destroyed by the wind or I hfir home in i F fer...' cit-r Ust n'ht and will visit at the home nearly trangle.l Hutt. oLring Inn
flooded with water. Immen-e quantities
f army .-tores will be ruined.
The last reports from Corpus Christi
ettd Cjt the storm carried almost e--ry!hinii
moveable before it, leaving in
i: wake diren of demolished summer
o-!a-es and thousands of dollars' dam-
la the business tedi-n.
;.. f, y r- .. cuy lasi nigni ana will visn at tne nome neariv niau;:ii nun. ia-pini; mm
morning tor their some in I sttereon, ... . ; t 2 . . j . .
J 1 e-rs- " imam Avery oi uigniana ave- ao.Mii i.if n.vK. ani Ki.'King i ixa us
jnue for a few days. j sh strncrlei.
I .vns xvum rme. wno t,s ren Tisitinz . meiai. wuncneq nv an inexperi- ,,u ,v ,- -,,.
GRANITEVILLE. friend in camp at Highgate Spring enced crew m apied in an attempt j
for the past two week, arrived in the to reach tho imperiled peorb-. s,,ri,i; Cfnference t Bejin at Noon.
Vietnr lndgp, Xo. 41, will hold a meet- city this morning and will visit relatives men reeh,-d them and bron;-!.t them tn : W-hir.rf'-n. D. C. Aug. 13. An:i;.--ing
In Miles hall Tuesday evening, Aug. on Brook street through the remainder 'shor. where first aid rendeiel lv m.nt. we' ode for a t-nr.fer.-n.-r- at
o f the iconth cf August, Uovtvi.
- - . . - - t
tiers with the White Hnu.p would net !
concluded in a few dvs. and t!iat each
peint imolvrd would be thoroughly con
sidered hy the expensive liends of the
rixids before nr d. finite position is tak
en. While the president have kept in I
tueh with the tnation a. it d-rloped
1 t re it w a. .aid last nt-ht their atten-
ti..n had been largely perfunctory and j Tt"" r,!',"r Hns for lumpers to
thev did not have first hand information ) moye ' ''n n i whrn smaller
nn the tatn of the nem.tiation. nntil ,''0 k be'ame .ilodge, that the man's
tl.rv rearl.ed Washington and talk"!
r vi-uvbi in i,.r I ill, npw Til M.fiiiie,
annex to the Howland block is Hearing IpaR' team and the Logan Squares, the
latter team oemg composea entirely ot
local talent and managed by William
Bartlett. The game will be played at
Intercity park at 4 o'clock.
The body of Orange B. Armington. the
five-nionth-old son of Mr. and Mrs. W. B.
Armington of Cummings street, was tak-
en to-day to Duxbury for burial. The.
child died Thursday night.
Dr. M. F. MeGuire continues to im
prove at Heaton hospital and will prob
ably he able to leave the institution
within a few days.
The M.mtpelier baseball team left st
The noon to-day for Burlington by aiftomn
l.e'trude Mason." was pre-ented.
bile to play a league game at 3 o'clock
this afternoon. Gallagher will pitch for
the locals and Harris, whose twiTling
granite, utter emp!oed by the Mar againt St. Johnsbury ednrsday was
i.ranite Co. m Smith', meadow, received ,Pr-v ti-fa.-torT, will start against the
t i . .. n it I
la raintul injury v. sterdav when he was ! "P "iers lo-momw n tvuiiaoo.
tru. k in the forehead bv a small stone.
Everybody Invited to Trotting Park.
This (aturdvl is everybody's day
head rjie-ht between the two t on.-, 'an I everyone it imitej to the Avers
ither w, .rkn.cn as.isted in extricating street trotting park to attend the joint
t?it man an i a liutT to -k several ' pien if and field day of the farmers of
ttt.V in a eut tour inehe- long. o- j Washington and i range counties Ad
wotkers of Bott neut r-otisi !err 1 that he . mission !r Corre an! he;n swell tha
'hud a verv nrrr s,rw.. He w :!l rit'iriwd. The Barre hand w i,l furuieh ma
il '.-.B betwtn riot.L.iit N i.'Bj tlie laa- work t-jt wverai daja, im tia af;rnoon ,
