W7
i n
Ay.
7
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTSOF GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND THE UPBUILDING OF THE COMMUNITY.
i i I
v -y
VOLUME IX.
THi: CLAYTON NEWS, SATURDAY AUG'. ST 1!J 1IIIÜ.
deeuts in fighting tabu
Perfecting mid Strengthening of Or
ganizations in Various (win
, ties Alone Necessary '
for Telling Results
Santa Fe, Auugst 17, With the
campaign of 1910 about to opon
very gratifying reports are being re
ceived here concerning political con
ditions in the counties where the
big contests between the Iemocracy
and the Republican machine, repre
senting the Invisible Government,
will be staged, as well as in the
counties safely Democratic. In Col
fax county the Democrats will be
more strongly united than ever be
fore, and in their light for the state
and county tickets they will be aid
ed by a Hepublican county revolt.
In Union county, where sentiment
against "jimmy politics" is today even
stronger than at the time the Re
publican "jimmy" was used to un
seat two legally elected lH?mocratie
members of the 1013 legislature,
there is every promise of an over
whelming Democratic majority this
yepr. In Bernalillo County the Dem
ocrats aro thoroughly awake to
tif ir opportunities, . and are pre
wired to take advantage of every
opening afforded by dissatisfaction
among the Republican forces there.
Guadalupe county is bound for. the
Democratic column; in Santa Fe
county there is a possibility of a
serious Republican row; the Demo-
crats of San Miguel, Mora and McKin
ley counties were nev?r as hopeful
as they are this year, and Rio Ar
riba and Taos county Democrats
promise surprises in those counties
in November. In Grant and Luna
counties the Democrats are "up on
their toes" as usual, and are de-
"irmiued to roll up increased IVmiv
atic majorities. In Lincoln, Otero,
unties Democratic activity nro-
es big results. In Sierra county
ancisco Bojorquez, twice legally
cted Democratic representative
the Second state legislature, and
theft of whose seat by the Rep
can majority constituted the
ime of 1915," is a candidate for
riff and the voters of .that roun
will this year register a telling
test against Republican unscru-
nisness.
lie ieniocraiic siai convention
on August 30 is certain to start
ave of lemocratic enthusiasm
will sweep into every county,
io'N tht' nomination of a snlendid
ticket-? ticket of able, honest, re
presentative citizens is assured. It
will be a ticket in striking contrast
to the machine-made Republican of
fering; a ticket that every independ
ent and Progressive voter, as well as
every Democrat, can heartily sup
port, knowing that its success means
elliciency and honesty and economy
in state affairs; piogressiveness and
Yal H .(A ' 41 ! i r I V I D (O olnni, uirann linn
The work that now remains to be
done is the welding of Democratic
sentiment and spirit and aggressive
ness into effective fighting units that
wtil bring Democratic triumph in
November. This can be accomplish,
ed only through organisation, and
Democrats in every county should
open, the campaign by organizing
evr precinct.
In f "mocratic counties of the
f New Mexico there is
I work to Do done, for
itio vote must be ac
X the polls on Novem
I are several thousand
ic voters in the east
' ities, and new voters
'em also exist this
! ties.
tiation and in containing lh3 party's
program of unequalled constructve
legislation.
Throughout the campaign the
Democrats of New Mexico eonstant-
keep in mind that the Republican
machine is battling for its lite, this
year; that for the Invisible Govern
ment the struggle is a struggle for
existence, and that the flgnt waged
by the Republican will be in keep
ing with the despcrateness of its
situation.- Already an enormous Re
publican campaign fund is being
talked of, and boasts of what can be
done with it are being made. But in
this connection Democrats have the
satisfaction of knowing that as this
year's election involves a U. S. sen
ator and congressman the Federal
corrupt practices act, entailing pro
secution in Federal and not in state
courts, applies, and that a blow for
clean politics and honest elections
can be struck by making examples of
any political workers who attempt
unlawfully to Influence voters.
Don Efraeio :m the Job
DEMOCRATS ELECT DELEGATES
No. 34.
i
r
te
Ikm Kfracio Galiegos, the south
Union county cattk king and three
hundred pound heavyweight repub
lican bos was cotepicous at the ira
publican gab-fest through his avor
dupois and linguistic ability. Don
Eufracio has a habit of beng con
speious. and enjovs the refutation
of being the professor emeritis of
the "jimmy" brand of politics in
L inon county. It might be remark
ed in passing that the result of the
convention was highly erratifying to
the Don, as local g. o. p. gatherings
conducted according to his direc
tions always are.
. . k
Dr. Keller on Vacation
Dr. K. C. Keller, the popular dent
ist, will leave Monday for Indiana,
and other eastern- states on a two
weeks vacation and business trip.
Dr. Keller will be back in Clayton
by September 1st to take care of
his large. practice. y'
east.
h Li '
Every vote will
jd every vote must be'
addition to state officers, the
; ion of a Democratic U. S. sena
md a Democratic congressman,
:l places now occupied by Re--ati,
is this year demanded, to
mi. that New Mexico hlial! aid
holding the unrivalled policies
' e Democratic national aJininU-
Wants Protection
Juan C. Martinez, one of the
wheat kings of the Des Moines coun
try, was in the county seat Thurs
day attended the republican gab
fest and demanding a high protect
ive, tariff and 50 cent wheat Poor
deluded Juan.
-
Foster Will Locate in Clayton
John W. Foster of Shattuck. Ok
lahoma, a farm loan and real estate
man, and an old acauaintenanee of
ine isews editor, arrived in Clav
ton the first of the week and ha?
about decided to make this hW per
manent home. Mr. Foster, durins
the past ten years, did a tremer.du-
ous farm loan business in Ellis and
Harper counties. Oklahoma, and
says he' sees no reason why the
business should not be equally good
in Union County. He is enthusias
tic over Union county land, and says
that it is a great country, greater
than he had thought.
Return From Vacation
Mr. and Mrs. Morris C. Johnson
and children, returned Tuseday from
a months vacation In the Pecos val
ley and White mountains of south
ern New Mexico. Morris says that
the White mountains cannot be ex
celled as a place to spend a vaca
tion, and for hunting and fishing.
We balk at repeating the fish stories
told by him. We must save our
own reputation.
kiker Visite Clayton
Hon. II. A. Kiker and Hon. John
Morrow, prominent attorneys of Ra
ton, wercin the city Monday attend
ing the Democratio county conven
tion. Mr. Kiker is a candidate for
the democratic nomination for dis-
trct attorney, and has a large fol
lowing in his home county and in the
counties of Taos and Union. If Mr.
Kiker receives the democratic nom
ination, business will bi pressing for
the present district attorney ami his
lluriutrly iueompeteut assistant.
Attend. nice At Convention Shows
Strength of Party In
The County
With practically every precinct
represented the Democrats of Union
county convened at the Courthouse
Monday afternoon, land after reaf
llrming their allegiance to the prin
ciples and tenents of Ieniocracy,
and their belief in and advocacy of
President Wilson's policy in keeping
the United States out of the world
embroglio, selected twelve delegates
to represent Union" county in the
state nominating convention to be
held at Santa Fe on the 30th day of
the present month.
trJohn Spring, county chairman, call
ed the convention to order shortly
after 2 o'clock, and made a happy
speech brim full of democracy. Dr.
A. E. Brosier of Amistad, was elect
ed temporary chairman; Juan D.
Casados, assistant chairman; Antonio
Chavez, temporary secretary. The
temporary organization was after
ward made permanent, f .'
While the committees on credent
ials and resoultions were preparing
their reports-'Tlie convention was
entertained by speeches by Hons.
John Morrow, E. W. Saxon, and H. A.
Kikerythe two last named gentle
men being candidates for the demo
cratic nomination for district at
torney. . The delegates named by the con
vention are as follows:
A. C. Miera, EpiSunio Gonzales,
F. C. de Baca, Paz Valverde, J. W.
Thompson, R. H. I,ey, T. S. Snyder,
Dan Luchard, Leon P. Casados, A. W.
Tanner, G. C. Smith, J. J. Duran,
R. M. Saavedra, C. M. Sanchez, Can
dido Fisher, Ignacio flael, J. C. Rog
ers, G. W. Nales, Fidencio Borrego,
R. A. Taradox, Dr. N. E. Charlton,
Thomas Edmondson, John Spring,
Jaeobo Pacheco.
The convention was enthusiastic
throughout, all delegates reporting
that the voters anil people of their
precincts were enthusiastically in
favor of the re-election of President
Wilson, and the continuance of dem
ocratic state ofllcials in New Mex
ico, and especiallly in Union county.
tifiase Ball to Continue
A meeting was held at the Dixie
Theatre, Monday night to determine
whether Clayton would continue in
the game or drop out and it was
decided to continue until the first
of October. II. H. Errett was elect
ed president, to succeed Morris
Johnson and J. H. Rutledge as secre
tery and treasurer in Ü. G. Gran
ville's place. Clayton will have sev
eral fast games in the near future
as there are several town that want
a shot at us. Let every one help
keep Clayton ou the base ball map.
-m y'
Back From Tnos
i
Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Rixey and
children, and Miss Mary Rixey, re
turned Wednesday from a ten days
vacation in the mountains of Taos
and Colfax counties. According to
T. it be develops á wonderful abil,
ity as a trout angler while casting
for the elusive bauties from the
shores of Lake Cabresto.
N'eighborho kI Picnic
The Lakeside Sunday School and
neighborhood (eight miles south
west of Clayton) enjoyed a social
picnic at the Selvy grove Tuesday
of this week. The people gather
ed about 0;30 and spent the day
in singing, swinging ' and social
conversation. Lakeside has or
ganirPd a Christian Endeavor socie
ty, and invites the attendance of
neighboring communties.
Lrhr Opens Restaurant (
i
A. C. Lehr has opened his res
taurant in the Dr. Slack building
on First s'reet opposite the depot.
'Curly" now has a nice place,, with
an assurance that the location will
be permanent. : , '
RESOLUTIONS
OF THE DEMOCRATIC COUNTY CONVENTION HELD IN CLAY
TON. MONDAY, AUGUST U. 1316.
Mr. Chairman, and Gentlemen of the Convention:
We, your committee on resolutions, beg leave to submit the
following report :-
That it be resolved by the Democrats of the county of Union In
convention assembled, that we unreservedly endorse Woodrow Wil
son as president. Thos. B. Marshall as vice president, the presid
ent's cabinet and the Congress, and as reasons for such indorse
ment, note the following great achievements:
To the banking and currency law as the greatest piece of finan
cial legislation yet enacted a law which not only made it possible
for the United States to weather the most devastating war in his
tory, but to aspire to the financial mastery of the world.
To the income tax us a just and equitable means of making
wealth bear its just provision of the cost of government.
To the corporation tax law which helped to transfer to organiz
ed capital some of the burdens previously borne by poverty and
labor.
To the Farm Loan Act which fills a long Tell need of farmer
and rancher to secure long-time loans at a minimum rale of inter
estloans which are secure and certain, and not subject to being
called in because of local conditions which might prompt local
hanks to interfere with customers.
To the Federal Trade Board, a constructive, progressive meas
ure, designed to compel the enforcement of laws definitely pre
scribing the duties and obligations of trusts and organized capital,
between each other and toward the public
To the record of the Department of Justice as proof that busi
ness has been emancipated from political blackmail; that organü
ed industry is no longer persecuted from motives of partisan ad
vantage or private revenge.
To the diplomatic victories of our president in his fight with the
Imperial German Government and with the Impera! Government
oí Great Britian, iu which he demanded and obtained adherance
to principles of international law regulating neutral life and com
merce upon the high seas. Following the broad principles of
humanity and righteousness enunciated and exempülLd by Wash
ington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Grant, our president doesn't believe
in plunging into war for alleged violations of international law. The
Republican party leaders denounce President Wilson for winning
peace with diplomacy, for protecting the lives of our young men
and the happiness of their loved ones by ttte exercises of his
God-given courage and ability to appeal to war-raged Emporors
and Kings and to wring from them acknowledgement of their
wrongs, as well as guarantees of their future strict adherence to
international regulations. Would the Republican party have re
versed the order of procedure pursued by the president? Would
it have sbot first and protested afterward? Would Hughes have
written his disapproval first in blood and then in ink? Would that
have been the duty of a republic which boasts of the brotherhood
of man?
According to our Declaration of Independence this is a country
which resorts to war only after every other form of redress fails.
Before we drew a pistol onEngland, the colonies "warned" remind
ed", "appealed" and "conjured" the British Government to "dis
avow" the usurpations of which they complied. Then as now a
race of free men claimed the right to be patient, and now as then
a race of free men will not falter in a final appeal to arms, should
their patience be exhausted and all other means of asserting their
rights be in vain. As a nation we deprecate the waste, the horror,
the unreason of war. 'As things are, each American knows that his
country represents the highest hopes of all mankind; because
he knows that his country's flag stands for justice, for opportun
ity, for reason and for liberty.
And with special pleasure to the president's Mexican policy, as
evidence that the American people were and are no leas determined
than ever before to give backward nations of this hemisphere the
fullest opportunity to work out their destiny, and finally to achieve
tnat liberty under law which even the most enlightened of people
have l ad to pain by struggles and sacrifice.
To our newly acquired and highly gratifying relations with Lat
in America; to the enactment of the Child Labor Law, the Anti
Lobbying law and to many more measures which render the ad
ministration of Wilson second to no other, including those of
Washington and Lincoln, for we must judge an administration by
its works. Mr. Wilson has fulfilled his every promise to the
American people.
It is further resolved, that we heartily indorse the administra
- tion of Governor William C. McDonald, most hlghly commend him
for the wise and statesman-like manner in which he has con
ducted his ofllco as our New Mexico Chief-Executive. The sterl
ing integrity and indomitable courage of our Governor, tho op-
posed on every hand by the "invisible government of New Mexico"
and a jmmy Legislature, has taken every precaution and exerted
every effort to safeguard the rights of the people of our State and
to maintain in Santa Fe at least a semblance of respectability and
public decency. To actually hold our head up among our sister
states with the pride of a younger sister, it will first be necessary
for the people of New Mexico to vote solidly against "jimmy" leg
islatures and in favor of men who will mke it a criminal offence
for members of the "invisible government", lobbiests, political
bosses and people-be-danmed corporation attorneys to say what
shall fcnd what shall not be placed in our constitution and upon our
statute books. This latter sort of men have beert manipulating
our State politics for years-remain in attendance upon our Slate
Legislatures day in and day out. Thanks to our president, lobby
ing is a crime in Washington; in New Mexico it is only a dsgrace
to the people, a precaution against the passage of legislation which
will beneficially affect the people at large.
We wish to reiterate our bitter resentment of the disgraceful,
gag-action of the last State Legislature for its disfranchisement of
Union county through the unseating of our duly and honestly
(Continued on Page Five)
