"l
t lEuntnn Herald
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
Ev,nth Year-No. 3,075
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 1916.
Elivcmn .-- ! n.o, vsnwii, ort i unufti , AUUUbi lu, 1916. Price Five Canta
WILSON SAYS EIGHT HOUR DAY IS RIGHT
COiJ uk
THINKS 8 HOUR DAY IS
JUST BASIS OF WAGES1
Republican Candidate Has Big Crowds in Detroit
-S. ,. MWMMWM.II. , - . WWH. . . .,..,.,.... W., - -.-.-.-L-L- JL L . j
TtttaTaHmmmzmrmmi&siaa
MORE RAILROAD HLADS INVITED
TO CONri.UCNCC
IrWrtUte Commerce Commlnslon May
Clve Fair Consideration to Tarllf II
Eight Hour Day l Adopted Impsr.
tlal Committee May Investigate the
Effects of Shorter Work Day In In.
tret of Settlement.
foiled Vtt Service
WASIIINO'ION. II '
U Infuitil fioin Hie
. Auk 19
statement
country.
It Ik MIKKCHlnl Unit til" president
ll njifoliil mi Impartial loinmlltei) lit,
lncMlpti' IIiIh mutter mtil report to
concrrim. Kllher Hide I hen will bit
illownl lu kin' mil U ii of termination
ill the acrtiiiu'iil, ami Invito Iwiulrleii
fur ailjuitmrnt.
"This lnn m t'tim Id inn u thorough
Iy iractlcnl ami riiilirly fair program,
irnl I think tlu public has a right In
lHCt lilt IKCtptaillO," Mllllt President
Wilson.
The pmdili at' stnlciticnt n Is
mm! alur Ilic various ralliitail irtl
Menu hml told lilin that llicy will ron
llnui to nk for nrlillrallnn of tint con-
win), mill Hint the) illil nut bellevn
,vvr?&fryx;";,TT?Zfil22crsz
: Mou.n day :i . ito
washing-ion. n c. Aug u, "?&W $&&T$W
I'lesldent WII-..I. I I.I,. inurnliiKO &2rf !$& P&B&fiS
.ont.memv Mh,.,ii llin tall 4)1 ?M 1ffi SSIJ
I.H..IH H...I ll.,. ..,U)..H $WSMmW$m
.nml,,,. I ...., ,.oa,.a of ..an 'WAV U f A IM8 4H5WfWP
H,:h. ....... ..a,. h a u. ,. rS7r , 'M feM ifl&S;If5& I
at .i,'m-i.i r.n ii ur .la t vT f ?&? KAttVhPWzJ&&s '
In all ...IhIIhk ,...Um ,! Wi fcVT. WiHTOCllr I
llntiil tin. iomMHHlon Im rlKlit. LSSBr .fcV fcOK-Wj'atJ
ar - . , .. asaaaEV aA"SMgr '&i ' aJZ?mKrt&rr'm&M&&mm x
!ww Tti' ' 4Hie?
ci. wKSrV Vljli Jf jafftJbw
DAMAGE FROM
HURRICANE IS
IN THE MILLIONS
RAILROADS, CROPS AND SHIP.
PING SUFFER IN DISASTER
!
....ri. ..i umUmii Imkiii'iI IIiIh imilii
..... I........... f, ...' "An iilKhl liinir .lay iimlmili
inc. "" " !
. i. ui.... .. it. ..In. fi.lr i tiiiHtdifrii. I
V 7 J ,1 ir ii, ..L.i.i lu.i.r1 JKi-nl .or m.rloty, anil hIiuiiIiI
ton orate nrii'HHcn If tlm I'lKl. t Hour.
ua' '""" I ul. nrlm.1
Iy Ill.tV lll.H tl.O HIIIHlloll of (hit
wik In Im itnnn
i annul lie i nuiplctnl ultliln cIkI.I
l.i.urn "
NEGRO ROBBER
CAUGHT AT WEED
William Cll.lon, tlm iii'khi liootl.lnclt
win. I.tiikn tip n poki'i k.iiui anil rob
I " 'i ii"' I'Hijrin in mr mi Ml ii.H'ii
he hail light to intk Hum to nltm- w,. 'niiim.liij n);,(, MH ,. ,.
Ion thin m.in.1 I'l.-Mlil.nt WIIkoii Iiii.i' n.M,., l WitiI I.) J. IKk)ciir, con
tlriiltorou.li.il mo. n mil. im.l pi ril-J h, unit plaic D.-put) .Sli.MlrT
iliiitu, imkliiK tin in to lonm In Wimli- ,j, ,w. left on tin. noon l.uln to
InRtim for II rimfllilllf. Tlllh lirtlllll ....I Cll.lon. im, ulll rnlnr.i IIiIh lwh.
I -" - -.-..
.S
-I Ktf&V
m&MMTMmmmmm
xtjrx&jz.vizziz;.
V" ." -s-
Sii"-
""fci rvjfww
z.yy?r?r'sei. ?firJ
aJk
In olio ini'vlliiK In Detroit Ills flrKt top In I.Ik iirfHldvntl.il campaign tour Cliarlort C. HugheB, the republiein candidate Tor president spoke to
l.i.WH) pfiHuim. Tln-y Katlicri-.l about one of the larRe automobile CHtabliHlimcntK to listen to him. The small coveied pah lion in the center of the crowd
lnmh Ilic speaker's stand.
30,000 Militiamen Njar BrownivlHe
Escape Without Loss of Life, But
Tents Are Blown Down Loss of
Life Confined to Crew of 8teamer
Wrecked In Storm Hundred Mile
Belt Is Swept
BASEBALL TRAIN
LEAVES DEPOT AT
i
8
TOMORROW
Trenches at Maurepas
Captured by Germans
folluKH ihu ri'iniKfiilallou of Hie mil
!
, I iik ulth tint nilsoner.
toul pir-MiluilH now In WiinIiIiikIiiii The telegram fiom Constable, Lock
tMlhf) ioiiIiI nit mil) for their nun ,.r sa)s (lll.lon went from Klamath
mi' j Tails to Merrill Thuis.la) iiIkIH. and
rrwldont WlUon Is determined. In hIii)iI lu .Merrill until noon. Ho then
andU- the hltuatimi u may foimu-. walked to a small stallon near limy,
Wca new iiriipiwitloii to piesi-nt to hu hit boarded llin train for Weed,
both xldM, but It In not bellmed tint .When arrested b CiniHtnblii I.ork
Ite mllroiulK will lomeil.t to an flr.lit jwir ifuwit of the nione) anil walthea
Lnnr H.ii tinin r...i ..
' ....., unimiiKai.oii o. . xm-i,. round m inn prison
""ju.iiiiun.ion nan in en made.
LCAVES WEED ON RETURN
C:30 IN THE EVENING
AT
Spreckles Party
Visits Klamath
ohn D. S.rrkp-i ,lr, presi.teut of
"'f American Soda I'lo.luets lompauy
"Ran I'lniirlmo. , Youiik, man-
"f'f "f Ihn saiiu iu,, and sev-
'Wlolherainiiipos. a paily w, ,!
f"w Mi) fun,, iMkeWiiw, and will
ax-Hundi) r..r . South.
Mr.rckleslslni,.iesled in nxteti
''rodi(l,.poH , AM ,-H,(0 ,
;" iounl, !., , ,, ,K.C
-iiuiK dm
Irwlns Return.
Mr. ami Mrs, John It w In hae iu
(.lined fl olu I'oillanil, whole Mis.
Irwin was operated upon. II Is be
lieved thai her nfTllrtlnu has bcci ie
mined, and that luir lompletn ieio-
Round Trip Fare Is $3.45, and Admls
slon to Game Is 50 Cents Interest
In Game Is at High Pitch Because
of Record of Each Team, and Be
cause Championship Hangs on the
Result of the Game.
GERMAN GUNS OUT-RANGED
VERDUN BATTLE
IN
Russians Penetrate German Lines at
Two Points and Capture Toboly and
Prlpct Marsh German Asaults to
Northwest of Verdun Are Repulsed.
London Claims Important Gains
Alond the Somme.
United I'rcsw Senile
PARIS. Auk 19 It is official!) ad
mitted that the Germans li.no cap-
The tialn carrjItiR local fans to the
Wied Klamath r.illfl baseball k.iuio at
.iO Ii Imminent. Shu ii icKalnlnr.. Weed lomnrioxv positively will leave tuied a poitinti or (tie trenebea north
welKlit and has a koo.I appetite. Mr.1 (,mollmv morning at 8 o'clock. Jte 'of Mnuipp.is, as a lesult of a Belles of
Mini Mis. Iiwln went liuompunled . , , .. , ,, . , , Ki,,i,.mi i-n.in.iis on llie now 1'ionrli
.... ..... tin n ni: in the evenlnu llin tl.iln pnsl- vnneni imin.eis on tin new i uiilii
linino h) Hi.) roimeirt niece, ftlltiH, - . . ... iiimIIIiiiis. lllsewlime all ('.cumin at-
' "
jil.i.ut an hour and thieeiiuaileis nf-
Ml. and Mis. S V. Itiliioiu.lis "fi.'i llio khiiui is over.
.'ii Aiif,eleti, i.n.ved IiihI iiIkIiI t.) fill i annouiirement was made this
M Wina I.ouls or D.i) Ion, Olefin
ln-
r.nlonioblle.
lacks have been lepuNed.
Ileav) artlllei)lnK is takiiiK place nt
II)llo)-i:saiitein and at Kstiees.
(iurman assaullh noithwest of Vei-
Tiny slopped a weelc III iiioinlnK by Oscar U. Wllley, sceretaiy uu jlim, i)t.Pn lt.puNfd. In the fklit
PIOlU'll).
Hunt Crouie,
I! i .
,""'"' I. Van lllper will
lUlllllIK KlOtlSt).
'I'tnd lomorimv
il'o Vosomlt.) on thn wn up. Mm. f Hi,, Klamath Palls Ilaseball Club. iib aiound Verdun the allies am usIhr
J6-lnt.li Kims, which throw misMes
wcighltiK a ton. The German hi esc
guns aie being out-ranged.
United Tresa Service
1'irritOGIlAD, Auk. IU, Klght Teu
ton attacks, following u heavy bom
baulmcnt on Svinchl, have been re
pulsed. i;.i.M of Kovel fierce fighting has
been resumed after a lull in activities.
Elsewhere the ltu.jsl.ins arc press
ing their advance.
Important positions on l'rlpet marsh
and northeast of Kovel hnvo been cap
tured. .
Along the Stochod Uiver the Ilus-
slans have penetinted Ilic German
line:, rapturing Tobol) and advanting
considcinbly.
SUCCESS LABOR
AND CAPITAL IS '
SAME-HUGHES
SPEAKES BEFORE 1,000 EMPLOYES
IRON WORKS
United Press Service
DALLAS, Tex.. Aug. 19. With com
munications resumed, it is isdicated
that the hurricane which swept this
section yesterday and last night
caused damage amounting to millions
of dollars to crops, railroads and ship
ping. The only loss of life is the crew of
the steamer Pilot Boy, which was
wrecked yesterday.
It is believed that the storm sub
sided fifty miles northeast of Eagle
Pass.
No report has been received today
from Corpus Christ!, where it is be
lieved the damage was worst No
loss of life has been 'reported from
Brownsville, where' 30,000 militiamen
were camped.
Tents of the militiamen were blown
down and the men forced to move.
The hurricane caused ruin from the
Gulf of Mexico to a point 100 miles up
the Rio Grande.
Says United States Cannot Afford a
Prosperity Dependent on War in
Other Countries "Country Must
Have Contented Workingmen, Who
Have a Share In the National
Prosperity."
It'll itiili:liH foimeil) was Miss Geneva
WllU'ihon of Langell Valley. Tho.v
nlil i.peml miiiio Hum heio visiting
lelallvis. Mr. lltr.iouglis Is a South
em I'uclflc I'liRlntin' nl Los Angeles.
United Press Service
LONDON, Aug. 13. The Biitish. in
striking at the Geiman lines along
the noi Hi Somme, have made import
ant gains along this fiont. They have
L.ipluied the outskirts of Guillemonti
and aio advancing on a hall mile fiont
between Ovilleis and Thiepval.
United Press Service '
SAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 19. "This
tountiy cannot afford to have a pi As
perity dependent on war abroad," said
Charles E. Hughes, republican candi
date for President, in discussing the
tariff before 1,000 employes of the
Union Iron Works today.
"There is no such a thing as success
of labor without success of capital,
nor can there be success of capital
without success of labor.
"Thib country musUhave contented
workingmen, treated justly, and they
must have a share in the national
prosperity."
Mr. Hughes advocated old age pen
sions and co-operation of labor and
capital.
"We have, everything nature could
give to make a prosperous nation, but
we must have the spirit of co-operation
and get-together," said Mr.
Hughes. "This is no place tor idlers.
All of us ought to join to make
America gieat."
Committees Are Named
tor Securing Railroad
.
follroi a "Cy """0 C" (,I0,IHU,-',,. W. R. Wlloy, u local alloine), -mil
Ii j 8r"A' L l''avllt mid Dr. It', fuinierly counsll for tho United Slates
Johnson, formerly president of n.o rr,"mi,llon o'vli': K llradbuiy, a
llnth Commercia, Club h.iv wJ,',inu,r pou,n of Klamath Kails, -ind
""WMIhe comr '"T J" inert II Wllhiow, a member of the
'l,confUrtftr il th0 bont,KI.-nittth County Abstiact company,
lrW from ku ut0 bu,ld the " nuve uccn uumod us the committee on
0rctbeck and i . Fa,,B to non, rljtbt of way for tho now railroad,
't Ike le. caulu Bre WH versed I Thoso commltteoa were selected by
k.... . ,Bal Problema l.,u...i.. l. ... . .. .!-. ti
election i , "in a, v, oiemens, .. it. iieniui'o iiuu v,. m,
Mil add
who had rhaigo of lianspoilatlon ar-j
langements for Hiu game tomoiiovv
Vvvo or thieo extra coaches will bo
aitarhed to Ihn icgular tialn to ac
commodate the fans going to Weed.
Iletuinlng u special tialn will leave
Weed .at CiilO, aniving heio about it)
o'i lotk lomoirnw evening. Tho loimd
hip faio will be ViAB.
Inlmest lu tho gamo tomoiiovv is
keener than that In piobubly any
. hiu., .h. a u.,t. wim Tim (lmninlntmliln
oi No.the.n Callfornln and Southern lur "f lhu ri,Ht M',lhoUlst ?1XUVU f
rv. ........ lu nl ulnlrn l.'ncll Innni linn ! ' OrlllllHl
derealed imny team It has played this, Houston's opera house Sunday even
wihoii. CoIIobo stars and bush league ?. t 8 o'clock. '1 ho meeting is bo-
OR. LOVELAND
-SPEAKS SUNDAY
Rev. 1'i.iiik 1.. Loveland, 1). D., pas-
will make an address at
iuf! anangeil by tho local chuiches, in
a, bo uni ... '' Jt'"'n h n CrlHlnr, Iho connnltloe hnvlng clinrge
Wtlee, u zeal w com-'of till woilt connected with Becmliig
tho ralhoad.
i-c
. .....1III..U I'linninun hrtlll Ipil.tlH.
IlliUiitin .nii...v ...., .......... f-l.....,l. -,.. .......
Joe Dalley will iimplio tho gamo to-. mnecuon w,... u .v.mm.u. w.m..
nwuow for Klamath Kails, and Mr. ' cll. bo f,e0' everybody
West will umplro for Weed. Both loidlally Invited,
aio known as umpires of exporlonco Vr. I.oveland is numbered among
nmi ability as officials, who will not, tho two or thieo most noted preaih-
Blond for arRument and delays on the era In Poitland, Is a lecturer of wide
field.
miompanied by Rev. George II. lVChC,
roinierly pastor of Uiaco M. U. Lhurch
or this city.
Special vocal music will bo ren
du ed by Mrs. Vernon T. Motschen
bacher and Mrs. Beit C. Thomas.
Manager .1. V. Houston has oiy gen-!
Siemens Discusses Cost
oi Railroad to Taxpayer
The following speeth by J. W. Siem
ens, president of the First State and
fiously offeied tho use of tho opera
Savings bank, delivered at tho rail-
i,i,k. moils fr .Ms ...i.ires.s. The ro'u- meeting Thursday evening, ex
- . nlalns Ihn flnnnpiiil nrnhtems Invnlvml
in building the proposed 'Central Ore
con inilroad from Klamath Falls:
JVl.et us look at the financial Bide of
"Tthis n
speaker will bo Introduced by Judgo
Cttorgn T. Baldwin, who has met Dr.
Lov eland trequently In Portland.
this question.
On a bond Issue or 1300,000, at i
per cent; this city would have to make
vn sl mill loyy, which would bring $18,-
0U0 In taxes to pay the Interest on the
Lewie Sells Property.
Dr. A. A. Soule, vvifo and baby
dnughtei, Lois, left today for San
rinnclsco. Mis. Soulo will visit rela
tives and Dr. Soulo will start a couiso
1 4l ..III ntmil feftidJ kjlffaml jllflflifL5
... ..iu mm,."" ..u '""" """ bonds. The assessable value of Klam
of women at the medical department th Fa3 ,g Hpnrox,raate,y ,3iooo.000.
Klamath Falls bonds are sought after.
of Stanford University.
K-
and a 6 per cent bond would bring us
a handsome premium, which would
.... .'...... , ,.., i- ,.n....i
A C. Lewis has Bold Ms property rant is most imimmic u dcuuuus
on Ninth street to Z. C. Kimball. Mr. j Mm for this one Bddress. This Is
and Mm. Lewis will leave next week mado posslblo by the fact that Dr.
for i-omr Beach. Cullfoinln, lo mukel.ov eland has been hunting In Klam
I their liomo. "tn i'nty '01 Ul l,nst week Ho ,8
enerience. and has traveled exten-l uauett van Kier, u. u. WJiuams,
rtvely in Euiopo and olsewheie. Ho j Harry Telford and Ray Telford will ( dlvert to the interest sinking fund,
Is a brilliant speaker, and Klamath leave tomorrow morning lor a aaya and hejp t0 pay the first year's inter-
deer hunt. est. And I do not doubt the bonds
would sell on a 5 per cent basis. Only
115,000 would have ta be raised in that
e ent,
This will mean that each man or
Ben Mitchell and Mr. and Mrs. Ho
mer Lemon will leave tomoirow morn
ing for Crater Lake.
woman, figuring on 6 per cent basis,
who is assessed at fl.OOO, will pay $6
per year as thoir share of this pro
posed new Indebtedness, or less than
the value of n Scent postage stamp a
day. But we also must figure on what
tl.o pioposed railway property, not to
speak of other Improvements that tho
rallioad will bring, will help us to
bear this new burden. Mr. Strahorn
sa)H that his improvements in tho
way of depot, etc., wilt cost In the
neighborhood of $200,000, on which
he w ill pay taxes, not only to provide
this bond interest, but including the
balance of the city levy, providing for
the different funds, which will brifg
the levy up to something like. eigh
teen mills for city taxes. Tafclng'tM
year's levy. 12 mills, and adding tfci
6 mills for the new bond Issue. Is
other words, Mr. Strahorn would pay
13,600 taxes a year to theclty, Mt
Continued on Page 4 -
it
J 1
wKl
" 4.
j..f
-K
t .i. .-. j
m r
,
1
Ti
