One Cent
NO. 3698. ,WUTmnM-n. .._ WASHINGTON, D. 0., SUNDAY, DECMBER 3. 1916. ONE CENT
LIBERTY. BLAZES
WITH LIGHT AT
WILSON'S TOUCH
New York Harbor Flames as
Statue of Goddess Is
Illuminated.
FHOUSANDS PAY TRIBUTE
rwari Lea. Color to Great E...
.cd Demnostration-France
Sends Moman.
(Y the hsiateinasai News svef)
New York. Dec. 1.-At a signal by wIre
less from President Wilson the Statue
of Liberty this evening suddenly blaed
with light.
Rockets flamed red against the darken
Ing sky. Thouands of banners waved
lashing in the glare of scores of search
lights sweeping across the waters of New
York Bay.
In the intervals between the measured
booming of guns the sound of mighty
cheering rang out. It fowed in great
waves of mound from shore to shore,
taken up from the crowded decks of 10.00
craft, which moved restlessly on the
shining surface of the bay as If sharing
the excitement of the passengers.
The final achievement of the splendid
scheme of lighting conceived and carried
et by the New York World was carried
Into effect at 5:46 o'clock, an hour and a
quarter after sunset.
Makes Dramatic Pletam.
A moment before the buzz of the wire
'ess and the roar and flare of rockets
rave the signal, the statue stood dark.
snd dimi. almost shapeless. against a hori
ton where dusk deepened swiftly into
'ight. She seemed asleep, drooping till
il the lines of her figure and draperIes
were lost. Suddenly, in a glow of soft.
white light. she rose to her full and
wlendid *tature. proudly holding aloft the
ighted torch to enlighten the world.
From the deck of the Mayflower. where
the President and his party watched, a
:ry of wonder and delight went up,
irowned a second later In the booming
of the thuiderous salute from America's
battleship.
Darting In and out about the glowing
statue, like some huge moth about a
olonial candle. Ruth Law flew, rising
and falling. revealing frequently to tpe
watchers on shore and the surface of
.he waters the illuminated character
'LIberty." carried by her aeroplane. ,
The President and his party arrived
it the Pennsylvania Station at 3:18 o'clocl
his afternoon. TIPy proceeded with po
ice escort to the Eighteenth street land
ng. North River. off which thMayflower
ay.
Light mathes Presdent's Party.
At 4 o'clock the mayor's committee of
'110. with a number of women, arrived at
the came landing and went aboard the!
I'. S. S. San Franiisco and Yankton. From I
the o,,ent of the start the President's!
yacht was bathed with bright white light I
fron th e gigintic S-erry searchlight.
Fr--m that time onward throughout the!
parde up tht Golden Way to the Wal-I
dorf-Astoria. the President and his partyl
%r., kec t in th glare of the light.
At the Waidorf-Astorla a dinner was
er-ed at 7:'0o o'clock in celebration of
the illumination of the Statue of Liberty.
The Presiilent and Mrs. Wilson were the
ust o)f honor.
Through the government's representa
i-e in[the t'nited States. Ambassador
Jb "1. Jusserand. President Poincare.,
f Fratn--'. delivered a message of con
tuAlation and good will to the people
of America.
( n board the Mayflower with the Pres
ident were MNr. Wilson, Ambassador and
Mine. Jusserand. Ambassador and Mrs.
Glerard. Senator-elect William M. Calder.
Mayor Mitchel and Ralph Pulitzer.
The yacht was folliwed closely by the
two warships bearing the committee of
'00 and their guests.
Premdeat Wlises's speech at the
bamquet will be feand en page 3.
INDEPENDENTS PLAN
TO DOMINATE HOUSE
Spurn Party Alliances and Will Hold
Own Caucuses.
The Independents elected to the new
Congress. rejecting all proposals from
the old parties to join them in organizing
the Hdtse. are going to form themselves
into a little caucus of their own and may
thereby hold the balance of power be a
determining factor in the election of the
Speaker. and settle the fate of a large
amount of important legislation.
There are seven or eight of theme mem
hers who owe no allegiance to either of
the old parties and are In no way bound
to support either the Republican or the
Democratic candidate for the Speaker
ship. Their votes will be needed by eIth
or side, hence they are In a porition to
dIctate the term, upon whIch theIr votes
* wIll he gIven. Thfey ran demand a voice
In the selection of the Important commit
tees and favorable consIderation of some
of the -measures whIch they wili propose~
to be enacted into laws.
The plans fee a working compact be
tween them have gone forward and It
wam saId yesterday they will be complet-1
ed by the time the new Congreme begins
Its --=ita.
"GENIUS" OFF TO FACE CIurOana
New York, Dec. 1.-Deteetivee started
West today wIth Henry Clay Arbuttle,
the Isesr-old chemist "genius" who
wes arstd here a weak aemo a
charge of havieg stolen platinum valued
at 4everal theousand dollare. am well am
valuable rhmire=1m from a dye company
in Milwankee Abuttie gave no trouble
to the authortties, willinly signing a
waiver et extraditise.
Imepseved Smn'ies to Amhevise
P "Lend of the Sky." EffectIve Dec. 10th.
Leave Waahhingte. 7 p. m. dally; due
Aaheviile 11 a. se. Dining car all the
wa.Ielweather. for 7golfing, rIding
adealoutdoor sports. Ask agente
Southern Railway. 76 15th. 011 0 at.
northwest. Union U5*kea A.a y
TEAR UP ALL EM KONEY;
PART RELPI IM PAY 7113
Baltimcee, Md., Dec. L-For the kst
time, the Batnore police depertment an
cepted torn money an payment for a fine
today when Robert Richards. S. of Hae
risburg, Pa.. was fined S and costs by
Maglatrte Paskard on a charge of being
intoxicated.
Richards started from his hqne town
for Baltimore to purchase a suit of
clothe, but over'dulngence caused him
to believe he was a milliopaire. On the
train he tore up his money and threw it
away. 80me of the pleces were picked
up and plaed In Richkrd's pocket. These
piece. were patched together-end Rich
ands paid ane was releaseed,
URGES CITIZENS
TO HELP CLERKS
Federal Union Asks Support
in Salary Fight.
aenator John W. .mith, of M.ry.nd.
chairman of the Senate District Commit
tee: Representative Ben Johnson, of Ken
tucky, and President Newman. of the
Board of District Commnissoners, yeeter
day were invited to address the District
branch of the Federal Employes Tjnioc,
at a meeting to be held at the Chamber
of Commerce on December Il
An announcement sent out by the Dis
trict ofilcers last night states that the
co-operation of'the citizens' associations
and all civic bodies will be sought for
the indorsement of a resolution to be in
serted in the District appropriation bill
by Congress.
'We want their aid." the statement
reads, "to help secure for District work
ers the Federal compensation act which
now applies only to the Federal depart
ments. We desire a reclassification that
will bring about better pay as advocated
by The Washington Herald. Boston,
Baltimore, and New York are paying
more to their municipal workers than
Washington. The different grades of
clerks In the Federal departments are
receivin;; more in compensation for their
services than municipal workers.
"Take for instance the Water Depart
ment. where Congress is placing the divi
sion under meter rates. An Increase of
20 for one clerk is the only change In
compensation made in years. The clerical
(orce. with few exceptions, are carried
on the per diem roll. No legislation has
been secured to meet the new conditions
under the meter rates.
"The Washington Acqueduct is support
ed entirely by water revenues and yet the
CONI'IUgZi ON PAGE FOUEEEEN.
AUTO HITS CYCLIST;
HUlTS IllER LIFE
Alexander Carter. of Alexan&ia, Badly
Injured in Accident.
Alexander Carter was brought to the
Emergency Hospital last night suffering
rrom a double fracture of the leg an
rcrious wounds suffered when the motor
,ycle he was riding to his home In Al
exandria, Va., collided with an automo
Ale at a sharp turn on the Alexandria
road.
Dr. McDonald said Carter's condition
was serious, but held out hope for his
recovc ry.
ils sister. Mrs. Mary E. Weitz, 2w
Sixth street southwest. was notified.
SARAH BERNHARDT ILL;
CANCELS ENGAGEMENT
Actress Has Heavy Cold and figh
Temperature.
(By the Intersatewall News Servise,)
Wilmington. Del., Dec. 2.-Mme. Sarah
Bernhardt was taken ill at the du Pont
ltotc) lat'e this afternoon following her
rip from Harrisburg and was unable to
appear at the play house tonight. It was
necessary to cancel the performance
ifter one of the largest audiences in the
history of the theater had assembled.
Mme. Bernhardt was attended by her
swn private physician, who accopanies
her, and by Doetors W . . anra and
R. E. IL Good, of this city. The physi
deans stated that Mme. Bernhardt was
mffering from a severe cold which made
It impossible for her to speak above a
whisper and that her temperature was
very high. They hoped, however, that she
would be able to proceed to New York in
the morning.
STABS WOXAN; KTTjl SE .
Dayton, Ohio. Dec. 2.-Albert Prouts
cut his throat with a razor and fell across
the bed of Mrs. Albert Mullen, with
whom he was infatuated as Mrs. Mullen
breathed her ast today. He has little
chance to recover.
Pfoutz was a boarder at Mrs. Mullen's
home. Police say the w6man's death was
caused by stab wounds inflicted by
Pfoutz during a quarrel a week ago.
ON WAY TO STORK CONGRESS.
Chicago, Dec. 2-Congrsswill have
ether things to worry about next week
besijea railway legislation. Misse Anne
hiartin, chairman of the Congressional
2omittee of the Congressional Union,
innounced today that a suffrage' on
slaught will be launched against Presi
lent Wilson and Congress at once In be
balf of a suffrage amendment.
Miss Martin spoke at a luncheon of the
Women's Party and leaver later in the
lay for Washington.
KUA O08RIC'S TurnY RET
New York, Dec. 2,--Pncus 'Emmnanuel
s annnisey watching his waistband to
lay, beneath which reposes, only partly
ligeeted, two leaves of bread, ten pickled
"ed Dieppers, twenty-four potato pan
=ites cne thirteen-pound turkey, six bot5
tlea of beer sand en unmengrable quan
:ity of whisky.
Emmaonuel ate and drank them all as
in election bet penalty Re is known as
champion eater, hut for the first time
n his life his digestion piayed him faise.
Quieket 3srviee te Seilmee...
Etvery Hour on the Hour, Baltimore
ni Qil.1,5rudti-fiegy
LIP'
f(C
BRITISH RESTIVE
New War Council Demanded
in Big Press Campaign.
(By the Iatermatimal New. Service.)
London. Dec. 2.-Great Britain is once
more face to face with a governmental
"shake-up."
Virtually over-night a new and power
ful preen agitation has sprung up clamor
ing for an immediate reorganisatiom of
the present ministry. The minhnuza de
mand voiced generally is a new unar
council. Heavy journalistic gun. are be
ing trained on Premier Asquith, and VIae
count Grey. Uoyd George again looms
up as the nation's str9ngest man. His
name is generally urged for the pre
miership.
Interest today centered upon a morn
ing conference between the King and
Premier Asquith, but not an inkling leak
ed out as to the subjects discussed.
The storm that has been brewing for 4
some weeks under the surface is expected
to break loose during the Parliament
sessions in the coming week. No effort
is made by the pressand pubUc to con
ceal the fact that the Teuton successes
in Rumania are the basis of the growing
discontent. The development of the A
Balkan situation is chiefly responsible N
for the demand for a smaller war council t
with new blood and more energy and c
initiative than have been evidenced by I
the pregent body. t
The political atmosphere is tense and t
tonight it seemed problematical how the
government will be able to stave off a
general debate In the house of commons. t
After introducing a new bill of war r
credit on Tuesday the premier is expected
to give a comprehensive resume of the
questions uppermost in the nation's mind.
T1O SPEED KINGS DIE
IN TROPHY RACE CRASH:
Hughie Hughes and Gaston Weigle I
Victims.
(By the Internatiesal News servie.) I
Speedway, Uniontown, Pa.. Dec. 2
Speeding at the rate of 100 miles an hour d
in the last laps of the 112-mile Universal
Trophy race, this afternoon, the big
Piemier car, driven by Frank Galvin.
blew the right rear tire, and mounting
the rim of the wooden track, crashed into I
the press stand, killing two and injuring I1
ten, one probably fatally.
Hughie Hughes, who had been forced
from the race a few minutes before when
his car went over the west turn, was Is
caught wruarely In front of the big car I
and horribly mangled. I
Gaston Weigle, Galvin's mechanician.
was caught under the wrecked car, dy
Ing instantly, whjle Galvin, who was h
hurled through tg air, was probably IM
fatally Injured. We was rushed to tbe C
Uniontownltospital, where his condition b
Twenty thousand people saw the acci
Teadent. hee odya practicalyd muade
up thelr minds to demand a recount of
the votes cast for governor in the No
vember election. The day's developments
convinced Republican State Chairman tU
Charles S. Hatfield, he dieciared, that tl
there is a good chance of James II. Cog's i
plurality of slightly over 5,000 being wiped li
out and Cov. Willis being returned to tihe In
governor's chair.
SHWWEECH E rN I&VED
Baltimore, Md., Dec, 2.-After being'
seven days without food and a short sup-j
Ply of water five shipwrecked seamen
Capt. Joseph Evans, William Pitts, Mets
Anderson. Cook George W. Umith, and
Seaman Duncan Conrad, of the BrItish
schooner Arthur F. Parkeri-errived heei'
today on the American stameho flock
lngham, 001miengel .by (40t, ,dwards,I
who on last Wednesday receg the meni
frm her ~nin e.i. an... a. U5I5P
Kenn -ns Fight Duel
Meanted on Horseback
(By International News Iervce)
I'xington, Ky., Dec. .-one of
the old-time duels. which made the
Blue Grams country the chosen
setting of So many novelists, was
staged at sunrise today in Clinton
County.
Mounted on horses, Jess Blevins I
and Steven Hubblestone centered
with their seconds to a **eluded
spot selected for the .ettling of ,
their diffculties.
The men shook hands and then
galloped on their hopes twenty
five feet in opposite directions, with
rarolvers drawn. Wheeling at a I
given signal, they opened fire.
Hubblestone was killed and his
horse shot from under him. Blevins
was dangerously wounded.
Telegraph Tips |
London. Dec. 2.-Vlacount Grey, British
Treign secretary, and attaches of the
reign office are giving deep consider
on to President Wlson' h request for re
gnideration of England's refusal to
rant safe conduct to'Count Tarnowski,
e new Austro-Hungarian Ambassado
athe United States.
New York. Dec. 2.-Police headquarters
repho edcDr. F. B. Humphreys of the
cove of his watch before he hadcndr
arned of the theft.gThe refusal twa
rught while trying to pawn the time
lece. n
Harrisburg, Pa.. .Dec. 2.-A "movte"
cs van lat for only eight feet of film,
P Pennsylvania Motion Picture Censors
ce ruled. Movie directors are panic
trcken.
Forestburg, N. Y.. Dec. 2.-Using a {
motan pen in self-defense. Mrs. Beulah
enhart, 24. jabbed and squirted with ink
masher who had grabbed and hugged
er until she put him to rout.
Philadelphia, Pa.. Dec. 2.-Charles Gal
.gher, 39 years old, of Brooklyn. a pas
g ron a Pennsylvania Railroad train
ed n his way to a local hospital after
elgg removed from the train In an un
mecious condition, in this city.
London. Dec. 2.-The Morning Post in
a issue today states that Japan is lend
g 5O.0000,000 to England to bolster Brit
h credit in the United States.
London, Dec. 2.-The government which
now operating the coal mines in South
'ales, today granted a 15 per cent wage
crease.
Saloniki, Dec. 2-Storms and fog have
ndered operations on the section of the
acedonian front held by the Serbians,
ys an official statement fron the Ser
an war Office today.
Berlin (yia Sayv'ille wireless). Dec. 2.
sly artillery duels were reported from
te western front by the war ofices to
London. Dec. 2.-The British steamship
ggesford, 3,566 tons, has been sunk,
loyds announced today, The vessel was
asumably destroyed by a submarine.<
Rio Janeiro, Brasil, Dec. 2.--Debate in
a chamber of deputies today. revealed
at negotiations have been begun by
a Brasilian government fbr th acqul
tinn of the German merchant vessel.
iw interned in Brasilian ports.
New York. Dec. 3.-Plans were coom
eted today for tihe holding of a mass
aeting in Carnegie Hall on December
to voice the protest of prominent '
locators and publicists against the de-Ic
>rtationl of Belgians from their owfn
tuntry to Germany.
Santo Dominlgs, Dec. 2.-Two severe
erthquake shocks have been felt her.
bera was so dammage.
Plsses, Al U and Wet cest
i.Osast Line.4f New fe
P
BUS AS HOSTAGE
ireece Meets Modified De
mands After Pitched Battle.
By the Inuternsatiemal News Iserviee.)
Athens, Dec. 2.-A joint announcement,
w"a made at the various entente embas
lsand legations at 3 o'clock this morn-I
ng. stating that Vice Admiral Dufournet
uad agreed to accept six batteries ofl
neuntain artillery instead of ton a a
riginaly aImlna
The Greek go,' t. it was stated.
lam agreed 'to the Tice adidrar's stipula
lon nd illimmdiaelydelverthe six,
satteries.I
Amsterdam, Dec. 2.-Greek met Greeki
n the streets of the city of Athens to-I
lay.
All the bitterness and hatred that havel
>een glowing beneath the surface of the1
ialf occupied and half "neutral" kingdom
>f the Helleneg since part of it was mnade
L war camp for the entente. were whip-,
>ed Into full flames when some 400 ma-,
-ines. under the Personal command of;
67ice Admiral Dufournet. commander of!
he allied fleet In Mediterranean waters,!
narched on the Greek capital and swizedl
'hilorappos HilL which dominates the
-ity.
It was an "ultImatum by force." The
kiternative flung to the Greeks was to!
turrender their arms and amunition as
iemanded or see them seized by French
njarines. Then the storm broke loose.j
In the Pitched battle that ensued, ebst-:
ng approximately 200 lives, Includingi
nany civilians, the pro-Veniselists fight
nig on the aide of the French marines!
ittacked their countrymen. who threwl
hemselved Into the Paths of the foreign
rs.
3RANDISIIING IIIG KNIFE9,
NANTIIREATENS WILSON
'lases Philadelphia Man in Belief He
Is President.
BY the la1teemationefal News Service.)l
Philadelphia, Dec. 2,-A man carrying aL
citchen kn ad threatening to killI
,resident ison, who passed through
his city this afternoon, was arrested at
he Reading Terminal.
The Prisoner says he to Jonathan
Kraus, and that he has no home. He is.
nentally unbalanced, a condition which
he police say has been aggravated by
Irink.
Kraus appeared in the railway walting
-om of the terminal on the second floor.
latless, wearing three coats, and with,
ong, bushy hair, he startled a mann whol
was Passing by springing at him andi
militng Out a knife. The man ran. Kraus
>ursued him.
"You are the President,"- 'he shouted.1
Tlm going to kill YOU." The screaming,
>f women brought detectives, and they
overpowered Kra.
-batce, tees aMponoued gDut
ma ndths After anditcahedu Btte.Bl
Atorendec h-A Raloadt announcedet
lay thate at tebagou wiluteplatd ef~i
etien gthimonigt, onlc grin eor
npt.cotatinorthatuViceoAntiran Duounetl
atan wartor letradk an eleaor
trelvery forMontn Clie
WoonGrekt grue., It 2.-Th staed.
las advaned Ithe price to micents ascopy.a1
oncrand will Imdaelcay delye the hih
CAlstdam. Dec.* D-eek m.Te Grae
nr the tree s t entyo teso to
Prenk B.owtbet he ur fate ofnth
fter Bllneity c pr of WetV t ae ape
sIna net the erstcan ofWa
TOO ZE OF "WM'ER WAG=0"
PUTS KZRT 03 XMRIMmiY
Jersey City, N. J.. Dec. ,-No men wha
ridwe constantly on the water wagos can
expect to Not along smoothly with friend
wife. This i the unusual comlelusn
reached by Advisory aster Charles J.
Roe in his advice today to WILInam C.
Burke. who Is opposing a suit for man
Seance brought by his spouse,
"I am 4 years old and have never taken
t drink or smoked in my life.," boasted
Burke to Master Roe.
*Thet's_ your trouble." aid Meeter Roe
tartly. 'Tr you had gotten drunk and
mooked a cigar once in a while you'd
lave gotten along better with your
rife."
But despite his advice Master Roe go
nerved decision.
JUAREZ FACING
AMERICAN GUNS
J. S. Prepares for Expected
Attack by Pancho Villa.
[y the Internatiemas News Service.)
El Peso. Dec. .-With United States!
runs trained on Juarez ready to open
Ire on the city should shelis fall on
this .ide of the Rio Grande in the ex
sected attack which Villa I momentarily
Expected to begin, the exodus of Mexi
Mn residents from the threatened city
ontinues tonight.
Rumors are persistent here that Gen.
trevIno Is dead. He Is known to have
seen wounded. Refugees arriving from
he vicinity of Chihuahua City declare
hat the six Americans who were in
"hilhuahua City had been killed and that'
Chace Ketteson. acting German vice
:oneul. and Charles Elmendorf, a Ger
man, had been put to death by the
bandit's orders.
According to reports given out here to-i
lay by Inspector of Consuls Garcia. Villa'
has been routed by Gen. Murguia. at
the head of a Carranza force at kilo
meter 157-3, which in thirty-six mile.
south of Chihuahua City.
it Is believed by Federal agents here
that V&la has evacuated Chihuahua
City and. taking his booty and ammuni
tion has retired to the mountalns and
that the battle at Kilometer was only
a battle between outposts. Earlier in
the day it was reported that Gens.
Trevino and Murguia were on the out
skirts of Chihuahua City with orders to
attack at dawn.
In the meantime. Gen. Gonzalee to
continuing the moboliation of troops at
Juarez. Towns to the north are being
abandoned by the inhabitants in fear of
a Villa attack.
RUSS FOOD SDTUATION
R HID NEAR 9ISIS
Stockholm Newspaper Declares Riots
Are Constantly Occurring.
IBy the Internatloial News service.)
Stockholm, Dec.- 2--The Svenska Dag
bladet learn, from an eye-witness that
he food situation in Russia has hecorme
xtremely critical. Frequent clashes are
>ccurring In the suburbs of Petrograd bc
ween civilians and Cossacks.
Strikes are freely breaking out, ai
hough the strikers invariably are sent to
he front. The condition of unrest in
spreading to the rural districts.
The eye-witness predicts Interesting des
relopments in the near future. for de- -
tpite all deatals. the fact remains that
tussian conditions are rapidly approach
?rba crisis.
VILLA BANDIl SLAY
2 MEXICAN _ENERALS!
Sixteen Soldiers Killed and Women on
Trai% Robbed.
111y the lnteeratieeal News Service.)
Laredo. Ter., Dec. 2-A band of 100
Villistaz held up a train between Torreon
and Parrdeon. Mdexico. murdered G;cns.1
De Lossantos and Calzedo. and sixteen;
t'arranza soldiers clubbed the engineer
to death and then robbed all the pa.wsn
gers, mostly women.
This attack occurred on the afternoon
of November 2. according to the story
told by one of the pasengers. a German.
riving here today.
When the train. which was a comhina
tion coal and passenger train pulled into:
Talia, the Villistas .awho were lying in
inst boarded it and caught the Carranca
guard unprepared. Before they knew
shat had happened the two general, and
their sixteen soldi-ri were led out be
hind the station and hot to death. Then
the bandits returned and made the fright-,
ened passengers give up their valuables.
WOMAN SWALLOWS POON.
New York. Dec. 2-A well-dressedl
women believed to be Miss Henrietta!
Roberts, of Middletown. N. y., com
mitted suicide in a University place,
hotel this afternoon by drinking poison.
Fifteen minute. after she had registered.
the maid went to her room and found
NEW STRAMR LINE APPEARS.
Baltimore. Md.. Dec. 2.-Announcement
sf a new steamship line to rut from
Baltimore direct to South American port..
ase made thit afternoon by Vice PareesI
tent Arthur W. Thompson. of the Balti-!
nore and Ohio Railroad. Mr. Thompson
said the new ooncern propoaed to expend
t15.000.000 for steamers.
CURAN ELECTION UND)ECIDED.
Havana. Dec. 2.-With charge. of fraud
sod coercion filling the air Cuba is stili
salting to know who wee chosen Preal
lent at the election held four week.. ago.
[n two pt'oincesa new election. will have~
o be held, it seemsed certain today that
he recolt will net be k .- -weekrs
rt.
U. S. 900f8_ON GUAN.D.
Laredo. Texas. Dec. 2.--Anilipating at
raid, a motor cycle nmackins gun oquad
f the Ninth infantry wee ohideed out
in a hurry early today whe, a. baud of
Mexicans was aeen acting .aauiloudy
at a point dowa the cheer froen Laredo.
rho neehine Rut wasvo ye duty
milk Mwa bed s eim
RUSSIANS SMASH
TEUTONICFRONT
IN THREE DRIVES
Von Mackens's Danube
Army Forced Back-Big
_Bridge Pardy Retaken
KIRLIBABA INVESTED
ireat Advance Too Lae to Seme B.w.
armi. Howeve. 16 DBl"
of Epet.
my the htmaegeBei use Uea.)
Petrog& Doe. S-Te aet .. .
heOk Ot the Gertman alk drivhs epon
Buchareet from the soeth waseperted
)y the Rueian war eoi iod.
The Teuton forces that advance north
ward from the Danube have been driven
sut of the villages of Gestinart and
rona and compelled to fall beck the
pfacial statement. aye.
Three Russian victories, two of them
Affcially by the Czar's War Office and the
hird reported unofflcially, served ystner.
ay to send rays of hope into the deep
floom pervading London and the ether
Entente capitals an a result of ueoanes
plight.
The Russian War Office announced
First. the re-capture of the western part
>I the big bridge spanning the Dannbe at
:ernawoda.
Second, the re-capture of the vinage of
oman and Gostinart, lagtae nilee Sputh
if Bucharest and the driving back of Field
farshal von Mackeneen's Danube armi.
Take Pat et Tewm.
A Reuter despatch from Petrogred
Itated that the Russians have gained a
foothold in part of the town of Kirlibab.
iear the Carpathian Pas" of the mie
lame.
Important as each of these sucoessep is
n Itself, a glance at the map and a
perusal of yesterday's German war office
tstement tsuud later than the Russian
oort,. allow, l but one ooncluaion: That
Buchar-t's doom I sealed.
Equally inescapable is the concluton
that the Rusaia offensive in the Car
pathians was set in moflon too late tn
stave off the Remanian dinaster and that
the only thing Rasstan aid In Reniaos.
ay bring about is a partial rescue of
King Ferdinand's scattered armias.
The cabture of Bucharest, it is evident
rom ryesterday's ocial .epoa. is etso
Ltepp tobject of the Teuton com
ander. dently relying upon the
captel falting automnatically. Falkenhayn
and Mackensn are now working joIntlv
for one supreme goal, the annihilation or
capture of Rumania's armed defenders
Reports at Tariaee.
That the Russian report of the euosea
south of Bucharest I* a belated one. ts
shown by yesterday'. German %ar office
stateme-nit ainnoun Inz tl- c-rt inr of not
less than 11 officers and 4.400 men. dO can
non and lou loaded ammunition carts The
statemsent makes It ilear that the Ten
tons broke through the Rumanian posw
tions south of the capital. The Petrograd
claim of Ruslan succ-ses in i.- car
pathians conflicts sharply a ith the Bier
lin and Vienna aconts whi -h state that
the Russian thrusts failed under terrifle
losses. Moreover, Berbn announced th.
capture of Int% Russians at one point i,
the wooded Carpathians. Both the G. -
tian and Austrian war office admit th t
the Muscovite Offensive Is of the first
order. carried out by large masses of
troops.
In Northwestern Wallachia. where Fal.
kenhaynos "right hand man" Gen. irt
%on Delmentingen. is driving eastward.
the engagements, according to Berlin.
are 'developing into a great battle."
Rumaniana Defeated.
Further to the southeast li
Pitescia. where one of Falkenhayn'o
armies is pushing toward Bucharest. the
Rumanians on more offered battle. but
were decisively defeated. their front
broken in two.
An for Mackensen's Danube army it
has reached the Arges RIver. seven miles
blow Bucharest City and only two and
a half miles from the outer ring of forts.
This advance is admitted by Petrograd.
The outstanding development yester
dav was, however, an indication that
la-kenen has effected a new crossing
of th tlibe, thin time at the Turtukai
Bridgehead, d-c rihed by the great
Moltke as the best point for the pur
pose.
Iere the Truton cammander has been
marking tim. pending the advance of
his Svisto- army. whose heavy artIUery
in now well within the range of the
Bucharest forts. From Turtukal to the
capital is some thirty-two mile. But
the missidh of the Turtukal force, If it
has really crossed the river already, to
to head due north toward the Bucharest
Cernawoda Railway less than twenty
eight miles away.
U1TRNEYGENERALSHIP
DECLARED OPEN11|ILANE
Friends Declare Ho Would Like Job if
Gregory Quit.
The cloe friend. of Secretary ot the
Interior Franklin K. Lane refuae to as
reptsaccurate yesterday the report
that lie would resign from the Cabinet
It ant early date. It we. said in well-In
fnrrb,-d circles that Premident Wilsen
srobably would offer Mr. tane the poet
*A t torney General.
V ltoney General Gregory in reposted
Io hase announced that be will retire in
prIvate Uife early In Janllary. The ep
poitment of Mr. Lane to 1111 the e.aany
would be directly In line with an emi
tin he ha. frequently expmessed. in p
rate, ultImately to becoe a mnember of
the United State. Supreme Court
It is cna=dered not at all mebibe
that Francis J. ,Hemey, ot Lee Angelee,
would be Invited to cater the Cebtoet.
Prealdet t Wilson in kinowa to have a very
high regard for Mr. iiney's abm am
u peoecutor. The friends of the tat
iter In Waslhngtoe expect hise to be ot
feted the Attorney Generalehlp, psided
Mr. lane prfera to ieebe at the M
of the Dlearent eto anf
