IK .
If ^ 11 WEATHER.
- W W 7 _ . J Fair today. Tomorrow fatr u<
r .-..-.m. 1 yTT h & wi mrt ai t wrar assess .
y-WJv ^UIUMWJ ^MXU. j3s=a-'=J!
- ?. WASHTNr.TOK.~D. C.. SUNDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 3, 1IMU' rIVE 0ENTa_
No. bll No. ? ? * i 1
- ' ?? ? i
FIVE MEN MAY GUIDE
BRITAIN'S COURSE IN
PRESENT GREAT WAR
Slow Decisions and Inaction!
Chief Indictments Against i
Government System.
BIG POLITICAL CRISIS
SENSATION OF LONDON j
I
Appears Improbable Now That As- i
quith Will Resign?Premier
Prtnforc "With TCing".
VUi uvta ? ?? o
I .OX DON. December 2.?The political j
crisis, which is the newspaper sensa- [
tion of the hour, is generally believed j
to mean th*? future control of all war j
measures, both military and economic, |
by a cabinet directorate of five, ad- j
vised by Gen. Sir William R. Robert- J
son. chief of the imperial staff, and
Admiral Sir John R. Jellicoe, first sea j
lord.
The question of the resignation of
Premier Asquith, to give place for David
Lloyd George or Andrew Bonar
Law. also is discussed, but that Mr.
Asquith w ill resign appears improba
ble. The premier had a long audience
with the king today, which furnished a j
basis for the afternoon papers to pre- {
diet his resignation. Bat lie would j
consult with the king as a matter of
course over any important government
changes.
Council Proved Failure.
A war council was formed in the cabinet
last year, but the minimum number
of five, which Mr. Asquith then announced.
has been exceeded and the
popular impression is that the council
has been largely a failure because all
of its decisions were subject to debate
and ratification by the full cabinet.
The forecast of the new war council?i
1'remier Asauith, David Lloyd George,)
Andrew Bonar Law. Arthur J. Balfourand
Sir Edward Carson?still stands,
but doubts are expressed whether Sir}
Edward Carson, who resigned from the
cabinet a year ago because he was dissatisfied
with the government's policy
in the Balkans, when Serbia was being
hard pressed, will rejoin.
High Tide of Criticism.
The attacks.upon the government ;tnd
ertain members of the government re- ' j
cently have risen to the highest tide j
attained since the beginning of the |
war. Although the newspapers have:
attacked the government and Individ- j
ual ministers whenever it was thought j
affairs were going wrong, there has!
been no press censorship whatever on <
political discussion and the papers deal
with the administration and public men
as freely in war time as the American
papers do in the heat of a presidential
campaign.
While the Northcliflfe press and the
Morning Post have made the fiercest
assaults. even such careful-speaking
journals as the Daily Chronicle, the
*T C9lillillO(Cl uatciic oiiu iuanv-iico
ter Guardian have recently become
critical.
Cause of Discontent.
The trend of discontent has been
partly against the government system,
partly against certain members of the
cabinet. Slowness in reaching decisions
and inaction is the gist of the indictment.
The principal counts of this are
the man power and food questions,
while recently dissatisfaction with
what some considered a want of vigor
in the management of the navy and
weakness in The foreign office has been
increasingly expressed.
The appointment of a fo<jd dictator
was announced more than a fortnight
ago. but none has been appointed yet.
This is one complaint. The unwieldiness
of a cabinet of twenty-three for
managing a great war is a point on ;
which the critics seem unanimous.
As a counterbalance to the critics, j
there is a w idespread and w eighty, but j
less vocal, sentiment that they fail to
credit the administration with, the '
great work it has accomplished in the j
military and financial fields within two
years.
One Minister Against Another.
The Nation says:
"It has been a case of one minister j
pull ing against another and the depart- j
niei t that pressed hardest getting i
served firs' When Mr. Lloyd George I
was at f}.< ministry of munitions, he'
was aL for munitions, he was all for |
nells: now :t appears that he ;s all i
f > soldiers
"The ?-r > is for .ore home-grown '
p" ti and the fields are swept clear of
laborers. The numbers of our rneri
hant marine must be kept up and the
army nipounds the engineer1- It is
impossible that tins universal sla- k- j
ness . nil incoherence of direction an j
go on
Assailed by Politicians.
'I Wextrr.inster Gazette presents
the side of t.iit- picture. saving;
Ail the governments in all the count;
e at war are dally assailed by j_#olit
.ar.s. who ' h 11;! v they could <lo better.
?.r b\ considerable sections of their
public. w Inch are alarmed or discon?
? r 11 ?-<j The German chancellor lias
barely held his own during this year
and in spile <?f tli< drastic censorship
the liermai: newspapers are one chorus
of d:.-cot t r,t and complaint at the alleged
bungling of food supplies.
The Vustrian prune minister can.-.or
assemble h:x parliament and the
liungar .< , ha- to close liis abruptlywhen
tiie opposition get.- too strong'
for bin. j
GERMANY TO BE FIRM.
Will Not Permit Northern Countries
to Provision Allies.
LONDON. !m?mber A tiiMpatth io!
the Wireless I'ress from Stockholm reports
the issuance of an official statement
at Berlin regarding the acquisi- i
tion of supplies from entente sources
by the Scandinavian countries and Holland.
The beiman government, according to
this statement, is flrn-ly resolved not
to allow Sweden. Norway, Denmark or j
Holland to contract through the me-'
diurn of Great Britain or other entente !
pow ers any purchases of provisions or j
raw material the acquisition of which I
would tend to deprive Germany of tbesa .
necesaai iea.
S
LISNER ASSAILANT
BAFFLES OFFICIALS
Police Have No Trace of Man
Who Attacked Washington
Merchant.
HE MAY NEVER BE FOUND
Maj. Raymond W. Pullman, superintendent
of police, and Inspector Grant,
chief of detectives, last night stated
that they were without a single clue
to the whereabouts of "Will S. Hayes."
alias "J. S. Stacy," the name registered
at the Raleigh Hotel by the alleged as
sailant of A. Eisner, proprietor of the
Palais Royal. In a second edition of
I he police lookout for the accused
man his name appears as "Will S.
Hays," said to be his name.
Hays, the police stated, disappeared
as completely as did Petlef Schultz,
who several years ago shot a young
man in East Washington. In the
Schultz case, it was stated, the accused
man was of the type that should make
identification an easy matter, and the
same was said of Hays.
"It looks as if Hays should be easily
captured." said Maj. Pullman, "and it
also looked easy in the Schultz case."
Had to Step Over Scrubwoman.
So far as the detectives have been
able to ascertain, it is stated, no person
seems to have seen Mr. Eisner's assailant
after he appeared in the hallway
on the second floor of the hole!
and made his way down the stairs. Before
reaching the first floor, it is stated,
he found it necessary to step over a
woman who was scrubbing the steps.
No person on duty in the hotel office
nor any of the guests in the corridor
paid any particular attention to a hareheaded
man hurrying from the hotel
Friday afternoon. The police think it
singular that a bareheaded man could
have left the hotel at 1:30 o'clock in
the afternoon and gone bareheaded
through the streets without attracting
attention.
Inquiry at stores within a radius of
several squares of the hotel failed to
elicit the information that a bareheaded
man had appeared at a hat store and
made a purchase Friday afternoon. Mr.
Lisner was able to recall that the man
who pressed the loaded revolver
against him in the hotel room had
light hair. Will Hays' friends assured
the police that his head is bald on top.
and the police think he probably wore
a wig, his only disguise, if the armed
man really was the former secretary
to Representative Grosser.
A wig much darker than the hair
described by Mr. Lisner was found in
the pocket of an overcoat left in the
room in which the exciting episode
took place, and the police took possession
of it. Continuing their investigation
of the affair, the police learned
that the man who assaulted Mr. Lisner
really telephoned him from Baltimore.
He also telephoned the hotel from Baltimore
to engage accommodations.
No Demand Made for Money.
Police officials are at a loss to determine
what was the motive for the
visit and drawing of the weapon. All
Mr. Lisner was told was that the young
man represented Guggenheim interests
in the proposed consolidation of local
banking institutions; that he expressed
himself as having no interest in the
plan and declined an invitation to dine
that night.
There was no demand made on him
for money, but that may be explained
by the action on the part of Mr. Lisner
to protect himself being taken too soon
for such a demand to be made. It is
tyilieved by the police that the man
with whom Mr. Lisner had the trouble
also had other business men in this
city in view to deal with them as he
intended dealing with Mr. Lisner. He
had their names written in a small
book, and it is suggested that he may
have communicated with some of them.
If he did so, however, they have told
the police nothing of it.
Inspector Grant has been in communication
with the police of Cleveland,
Ohio, where Hays' parents are said to
reside, but has learned nothing that
will assist in tne aearcn ror nim. His
wife, it is stated, formerly resided in
Norfolk. Va., but the police have no
idea that Hays tried to reach that city,
"We simply have no line on him,"
said Maj. Pullman last night.
AUSTRIANS MEET REPULSE.
Attack Italian Lines in Falla Valley.
General Artillery Activity.
ROME. December 2, via London.?
Considerable artillery activity along
the entire Austro-Italian front is reported
in today's official statement
from the war office, which also chronicles
the repulse of an attack on the
Italian lines in the Falla valley. The
statement reads:
"In the Falla valley on Thursday afternoon
the enemy, supported by artillery
tire, attacked our positions on
.Monte Granuda lie was repulsed with
losses
"Artillery activity continued yesterday
on both sides along the whole
front, particularly in the Adige valley,
on the Asia go plateau and on the CarHO.
"Eneinj aircraft dropped bombs on
Vieenza. There were no casualties,
but some damage was done to the
Church of St. Corona."
EMBARGOES ARE LIFTED.
Washington Authorities Act in Hoof
and Mouth Disease Quarantines.
KANSAS CITY. December 2. An or
uer 10 rem?\e me t;noaiK" on an laments
of live stock from the Kansas
f'itv stockyards was received from
WashiiiKion today. The embargo was
placed on the yards on account of suspected
iahps of foot and mouth disease.
ST. JoSKPH. Mo.. December 2 -At
the direction of federal authorities In
Washington, Dr. F. M. Anderson, representing
the federal bureau of animal
industry here, today removed the embargo
on shipments of live stock from
the South St Joseph stockyards.
FIVE MOKE VESSELS SUNK.
French. Swedish. British and
Japanese Craft Are Victims.
EON DON. December 2.?The French
briganline Indiana has been sunk, according
to an announcement made by
Dloydn tonight. The agency also says
that the Swedish steamer Douglas and
the French schooner St. Joseph are reported
to have been sunk.
A dispatch from Falmouth to Uoydt
says that the British steamer Briardenn
was sunk Friday. The crew was landed
at Falmouth by the steamer Duna.
The agency announces that the Japanese
steamer Nagftta Maru has been
sunk. V
LIBERTYSETAL1GHT
BY NATION'S CHIEF
President, on the Mayflower
Sends Wireless Flash as
Fleet's Guns Boom.
j SEES PEACE IN FREEDOIV
Itv i ho Associated Press.
NEW YORK, December 2.?Presiden
Wilson gave the wireless flash whicl
bathed the statue of liberty in light a
6 o'clock tonight.
Bartholdi's famous symbol of Ameri
can freedom, which hai been for thirt;
years a token of welcome to the Unite*
States to millions of immigrants fron
every land, will be illuminated ever;
night hereafter from top to bottom
Funds to install the permanent lightinj
system for the statue, the gift to th<
United States of 400.000 citizens o
France, were provided bv public sub
scription.
Grouped around the President upoi
the deck of the yacht Mayflower, an
chored off Bedloe's Island, as he flashe*
the signal which turned on the light?
were Mrs. Wilson. Jules J. Jusserand
ambassador of France; Mrne.-j^saerand
high officers of the army and navy an*
representatives of several nations.
Symbol of Purpose.
"1 light this statue," said the Presi
dent, "with the thought that it may al
ways stand as a symbol of our purpos*
to throw upon liberty, out of our owi
life as a nation, a light which shall re
veal its dignity, its serene power, it:
benignant hope and spirit of guidance.'
The great guns of a division of th<
Atlantic fleet, anchored in the harbo
as a guard of honor, boomed a salut<
as the statue flashed into view, outline*
in white light. The whistles of count
less harbor craft shrieked in unison ant
flares of red light blazed up along th<
New York and New Jersey shores.
Adds Spectacular Touch.
There was a flash of flame high abov*
the statue, n.nd Ruth Law, in her air
; plane. add*x a spectacular touch to th<
ceremonies f illumination. Spouting
sparks and fi.- ? from the tail of her machine,
she circled the lower end of Man
| hattan Island. A roar of cheers frorr
! the thousands gathered in Battery ParV
j greeted her as the letters "L-I-B'
K-R-T-Y," outlined in electric lights
were revealed on the bottom of the air
plane.
j The course of the Mayflower was
marked by the rays of the most powerj
ful searchlight in the world as th?
j yacht's anchor was hoisted and the
presidential party headed for the BatI
tery to disembark for the motor-car
I parade which preceded a dinner in
honor of Mr. Wilson and Ambassador
Jusserand.
Skyline Literally Ablaze.
Leaving the statue behind, the party
on the Mayflower- looked out upon a
city of light. New York's "billion-dollar
skyline" was literally ablaze. Electric
lamps gleamed through countless
windows in scores of "skyscrapers." A
searchlight played upon a proudly
floating flag atop the Whitehall building.
almost at the tip end of Manhattan
and golden lights gleamed along the
sea wall of the Battery, haven of immigrants.
Flose behind the Mayflower steamer
the I". S. S. San Francisco with
j Secretary of the Navy Daniels aboard
i followed by the I*. S. S. Yankton
1 carrying members of Mayor Mitchel'f
committee of 200 and other invitee
j guests. The passengers were disj
charged at the Battery, where eleci
trically propelled motor ears were wait(
ing to carry them up town.
Flag Outlined by Lights.
j The parade passed into the ? anyor
, of lower Broadway, across the plaza o;
;ity Man rarK, wnere me Mars atii
i Stripes outlined in red, white and hlu<
J electr:'r lights gleamed on the front o:
i the city hall, and on through Wash[
inglon Square into 5th avenue. Tin
j avenue had been converted into ?
j "golden way."
Long ribbons of specially erectec
lights gleamed on either side of th*
thoroughfare, as far north as .'i.'Jc
street. There the ('resident and hit
party entered the hotel where the banquet
was held under an electric light*?c
canopy of red, white and blue.
The illumination of Liberty was
viewed from points of vantage by many
thousands of New Yorkers. Thousand!
more lined the streets through whirl
the President passed and cheered bin
lustily. .Mr Wilson arose frequently
and doffed his bat in acknowledgment
of the salutes.
Climax of Flood Lighting.
The illumination of the statue is
garded by electrical experts as tin
climax of development in the art o,
I flood lighting. For the bronze torch
which Liberty has held aloft was substituted
a glass torch held together by
the same riveted lines. To put "life'
or a "quiver" into the simulated Harm
of the torch, fifteen 500-candlepowei
gas-filled electric lamps were placet
i upon a series of "flashers." Tin
j sources of the light which will illuminate
the entire statue are fifteen bat
J tcries of projectors. The current k
'carried by submarine cables under tin
i channel between New Jersey and Bed
j loes Island.
The funds which provided the light
j ing plant were taised by popular sub
I scription by the New York World
, which also raised the money thirty
years ago for the construction of tin
pedestal upon which the statue stands
"Peace Only With Lfberty."
President Wilson, at tike hauque
; which was the culmination of the cele
| bration. declared that he had though
j for the last two years that "peace i
I going to come to the world only will
' liberty.'"
j "The peace of the world," Mr. Wilsoi
I added, "is not going to be secured b'
l the compacts of nations, but by thi
I sympathies of men."
' ( The President declared that the l.'nite<
States has a community of ideas wit]
France, whose people presented Par
tholdi's statue to the United States be
cause "one republic must love another.
| The President spoke of the significant-.
[ of the Statue of Liberty to the irmni
' grants. He said he wondered whethe
| the spirit typified by the spirit of th
statue is truly represented here.
1 The President said he noticed that th.
source of light for the statue "come;
from the outside."
, The only light," he added, "that w.
I can contribute to the illumination of th.
world is the light that shines out of ou
own lives. We must illustrate liberty ii
, our lives. With all due respect for thos.
who represent other nations not gov
, erned as ours, I do not think that na
tions ruled by small groups of men cai
he sucessfui."
i "The world." declared the Presiden
(Continued on Twenty-flrst rage.)
i
fMM
'
; ppranrmat PAPimi
' I IlLulULMIj ill Uril IIUL,
i MAY DISCUSS PRICES
Thousands of Petitions Pouring Into
White House Ask Relief Prom
High Food Cost.
After President Wilson has concluded
his address at the opening of Congress
Tuesday it is possible he may deliver
a brief address dealing with the high
cost of living.
The President's plans on the subject , *
are indefinite, and may not be matured
, until the last moment before he goes
i to Congress. It is known, however.
that the administration considers the
j cost of living one of the most pressing
i questions before the country, and that
j many of the President's closest ad
j | visers favor considering it in the legis- 1
J lative program.
- ! Show Public Opinion.
| Thousands of petitions are pouring!
into the White House railing for some J .
sort of relief from the present era of;
j higher prices for food, many of them ,
C demanding an embargo on food exports |
j to Kurope. They are regarded by of- j .
> flcials as an indication of a strong j
trend of public opinion toward an em- ;
r ( bargo, but, it is understood, will not!
- influence the administration in favor'
.v of it. |
' i The course which the President is un- . #
; derstood to favor is rather an extension;4
I of present laws to meet alleged con- j
? : spiracles for cornering foods and price
J fixing. An extensive federal investiga- |
tion now is being conducted by I'nited 1
* j States attorneys in all the large cities, j
J and recently I'nited States Attorney An*
derson, at Boston, was placed in general
charge of this work.
4
To Confer With Advisers.
5
i , President Wilson is expected to confer \
1 with some of the cabinet members on the j
j subject after he returns from New York J
! today. It was understood last night that |
| while the President may finally decide!
j that lie can better approach the subject
'in another way. a proposal to take it be- j
J fore Congress on the opening day lias'
j met with much lavor.
f President Wilson, it was learned last j
, j night, has been gathering from several of I
; tiie government departments, including j
' | the department of Justice, information
. ! bearing on the high cost of living. It is
' understood that he has not finally decided
i | what use to make of this information.
! J. W. DAVIS MAY GET BERTH.
- ? !
~ Likely to Become Attorney General!
If Mr. Giegory Resigns.
NKW VoRK, December 2.? Reports
- I from Texas that I'nited Spates Attorney '
" ; General Gregory plans to resign in the '
' near future met with no denial from mem- 1
j j bers of President Wilson's administra- |
. j tion here w ith him today, but it was i
mitei lh.il the Prptriflont ui-i ^ i
| ions to have Mr. Gregory, as well as
I the other members of the cabinet, re- j _
" I main in office. It was said that noth-I
' j ing was know.n of Mr. Gregory's inten- j
8 ; tions.
j John VY. Davis, solicitor general, is
i | looked upon as the most likely sucy
| cessor to Mr. Gregory, if he does ree
sign. In this event, it was said, Mr.
| Gregory, who on a previous occasion i
i was offered a seat on the United States ,
II 1 Supreme Court bench, will be very seri- '
- ' ously considered by President Wilson if ! ;
- another vacancy occurs on that bench.
^ i ; __
e Conservation
* of Paper
S Every citizen is called upon to see
. that not a pound of paper is wasted
Demand from every clerk that any
.. unnecessary wrapping of packages
' ! be dispensed with.
! If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
" i school children's playground fund.
" i Call Main 6036 and ask for the
I nearest public school to your home
11 and the old papers will be sent for. j
*
rODAY'S NEWS AND FEATUBES.
P/yRT I.
1?Political Crisis in Great Britain.
No Clue to Llsner Assailant.
President Turns on Liberty Light.
Congress Resumes Tomorrow.
Germans Within Five Miles of Bucharest.
President to Discuss High Prices.
2?Entente Marines Leaving Athens.
Anti-Suffrage Convention This Week.
Fighting High PricesNew
Battle Around Chihuahua.
3?Plan BrJghtwood Reservoir Play
Judge Goodwin Dead.
5?Villa Moves Watched Here.
Discuss Better Road to Winthrop, Md.
6?With District Soldiers on Border.
7?Arabia Appeals to United States.
Men in Congressional Press Gallery.
10?Herbert Corey Interviews Venlzelos.
Women as Burden Carriers.
11?Opportunities to Adopt War Orphans.
12?Christmas Fund for District Soldiers.
3d Regiment. D. C.. N. G., Ordered to
Leon Springs.
14?Old Paper Profit Near $2,COO.
Religious Service for Leper Early.
15?"Shop Early" Appeals Are Made.
16?Representative Garner to Fight Embargo.
17?Winners of Bundle Wrapping Contests.
Playground Children to Sing Xmas
Eve.
18?Citizens' Federation Plans Fair.
Santa Claus Girl Xmas Plans.
Reichstag Passes "Man-Power" Bill.
Bureau Women Want Wage Increase.
Tennis Association Banquet.
19?Social Insurance Convention Here.
Pennsylvania Society Urges Buchanan
Statue.
E'ectrical Week Opens.
High School "Frats" Hearing.
Alexandria Affairs.
12?Two Billion Dollars Loaned to Allies.
>3?Financial.
PART II.
1 ? District Militiamen Want Books.
2?Amusements.
3?Among the Club3.
4?Editorials.
China's Present Crisis.
5?War Reviews.
6?Fraternities.
7?Fashion Hints by Anne Rittenhouse.
In Maryland and the Virginias.
Art Notes.
Poultry Yard Notes.
8?Notes of Government Workers.
Musical Mention.
PART III.
SUNDAY STAR MAGAZINE.
PART IV.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
1 ? Economy in Street Cleaning.
Army and Navy Movable Hospitals.
2 Trade Schools for Wounded Germans.
Book Reviews
3?Rambler Visits Giesboro.
Morrow Talks With Crop Statistician.
Pepper Writes of Afghanistan.
4?Herbert Kaufman's Message.
Carpenter Writes of Yukon Indians.
part v.
sports a no automobiles.
part vi.
comic section.
part vii.
society.
planogravure section.
MOTOR CYCLIST INJURED.
Taken to Hospital After Crash With
Automobile on Alexandria Road.
Alexander farter, while riding; on a
motor cycle on the Alexandria road
jound from Washington, collided with
in automobile driven by Robert A.
Williams. an employe of the governner.t
printing office, about half a mile
south of the Ilihway bridge early this!
norning. farter was seriously injured
ind is at Emergency Hospital in a j
ritical condition. I
Lester S. Martin and William B. Gor- !
nan. who were in the automobile, stat-I
?d that after seeing the light of the!
notor cycle ahead of them they stopped!
md that farter, who was going about,
sixty miles an hour, ran into the car I
vhich was damaged. Williams and his
jassengers, along with the inured man,
vere brought to Washington in the
nachine of J- H. hczers, who was ac ompanied
by J. W. Hawltngs. Wiliatns
is a son of Sergt. Joseph a. Wiliams,
head of the White House pollcjl
letail.
^ I
% v I
| -
FOUND DEAD IN ACAR;
COMRADESARRESTED
Charles Gallagher of Brooklyn Was
Taking Horses From the Bace
Track at Benning.
J
KfMM-ial I>in|>?tcli fo The Siar.
PHILADELPHIA. December 2.?
<"har!es Gallagher, thirty-eight years
old. 619 Myrtle avenue. Brooklyn, employed
as a helper in bringing race
horses from the Benning, T>. <\, race
track, was found dead on the floor of a
horse car when it arrived in this city
i shortly after midnight this morning,
j Because of a bruise in the man's tem|
pie, three other men in the car were
placed under arrest. The men under
j arrest are Walter t'lark of Washing1
tnn ( i <* pvnrnss inf>s.vP!iFPr wlui
J had charge of the car. arid James Ghiaf,
Montreal, and Dennis Seeley, Brooklyn,
I employed as helpers with Gallagher.
M'lark was held under $500 bail, and the J
: other men committed without bail for!
I it further hearing Monday by Magistrate
Beaton in the central station toi
day.
Horse May Have Kicked Him.
f'lark says he found Gallagher lying j
'on the floor of the car when the train I
reached Baltimore. I'nwilling to delay J
{ the delivery of the horses, he wired to j
I this city of the man's death and added
'that he was bringing the body on with
; him.
When tiie train, traveling ovr the
| Pennsylvania railroad, reached here the j
car was sidetracked at 18th and Mar-!
; ket streets, where it was met by t
< 'larke and Fisher, city hall detectives. ;
i According to t'lark. Gallagher must i
I have received the bruise either from aj
] fall or from a kick from one of the |
! horses.
In the dead man's pocket was found (
a card, giving his name and address,
and asking that his sister, Miss Helen j
Gallagher, living at the Brooklyn ad-I
dress, be notified in case of accident. !
This was done this morning by the
police.
.
CRAWLING OVER DESERT.
Army's First Caterpillar Traction
Train Under Way in Texas.
, SAN ANTONIO. Tex.. December 2.? !
The Foiled States Army's first cater ji
pillar tractor train was believed by otli- '
jeers here to have started today on the I J
j second half of its crawling journeyj<
i over the west Texas desert between 1
i Mar fa and Presidio. Reports of the j
[train's experimental trip are being,]
, awaited with interest by officers at:1
j Fort Sam Houston, who see in the new j j
i mode of transportation a revolution-| j
I izing influence in traffic along the bor- ; ,
J der where good roads are few and mo- :
j lor trucks cannot go.
j The train consists of a caterpillar
tractor, somewhat in principle like the
j Fnglish "tanks" in France, and four
trailers loaded with lumber. Several
i days will be required for the sixty- t
three-mile trip, which began Thurs- ! *
da\, as the tractor makes only two and 1 I
! a ha if miles rin hour. .
i ?-? ;
, THREATENS THE PRESIDENT, i
| Man Believed Insane Under Observa- '
tion in Philadelphia. 1
PHILADELPHIA, December 2.?A J
man who made threats against I'resi- f
dent Wilson was arrested at a rail- 1
road station here today by the police ?
and sent to a hospital for observation. {
He attracted attention by walking r
about the station muttering and car- ^
rying a kitchen knife. He said his t
name was Jonathan Kraus. and that t
he was 136 years old and had no home, t
He ware three coats and no hat. The t
police said he is mentally unbalanced a
land that his condition was aggravated c
I by drink. He made threats to kill 1
the President, and also mentioned the t
| names of J. T\ Morgan and John 1).
Rockefeller, the police said.
0
CONGRESS MAY TRY
TO COMPLETE JOB
Democrats Would Like to
Round Out President's Program
of Legislation.
NEXT HOUSE IS UNCERTAIN
At noon tomorrow the Speaker of the
House and the presiding officer of the
Senate will rap to order their respective
bodies, announcing the opening of the second
session of the Sixty-fourth Congress,
which will terminate by constitutional
limitation at noon March 4.
Short sessions of Congress are seldom
productive of legislation of importance
beyond the passage of the appropriation
bills, but this one may prove an exception.
If so. it will be due mainly to the
fact that President Wilson's legislative
program is not finished, and to the further
consideration that if it is not completed
before the Congress expires difficulty
may be experienced in getting action In
the Sixty-fifth Congress.
House Still in Doubt.
Whether the republicans or the democrats
will organize the House in the next
Congress is still a doubtful question.
Both sides are now claiming a bare majority
of one or two, with-six independent,
votes in the balance, sufficient to tttrtMe
scales. Before the first Monday in December.
1917, death or disability may further
narrow the margin, or swing the
pendulum to one side or the other.
The succeeding Congress, therefore, is
certain to be very close and the President's
hold upon it less secure, his influ0,ice
less potent. The administration supters
in the House consequently are inclined
to put through at this session as
much legislation demanded by the President
'is possible, while the democratic
party has a good working majority in
both houses and the President's prestige
remains at its height.
To Complete the Program.
Statesmen who have been in touch
with the White House, without violating
confidence or anticipating the
President's message to <'ongrcss, say
that they understand he will make several
recommendations along the line of
general legislation, to complete the
original legislative program. Most of
the subjects are familiar to th'e rank
and file of the membership.
Under the rules of the House no difficulty
need be apprehended in passing
anything tr>e President desires. In the
Senate the administration leaders assume
that the republicans will not interpose
insuperable objections to the
administration program, since the responsibility
rests entirely with the
party in power.
U
Member? Arriving* on Every Train.
While some of the leaders will not
arrive until today or early tomorrow,
the rank and file of the House and
Senate were pouring in last night on
every train.
Returning members talk of new" issues.
but it is the general opinion that
little other than appropriation bills
can be passed in the short session.
Surface indications give assurances
that the high cost of living will at
least be a subject of much discussion
and that many proposals will be made,
ranging from an embargo on food exports
to official investigation of alleged
conspiracies to inflate prices.
While congressmen appreciate that
railroad problems, conservation legislation.
immigration, suffrage, national
prohibition, corrupt practice measures
and other unfinished general business
will b.e pressed for consideration
and that efforts may be made to investigate
The alleged election frauds
and expenditures of the national campaign.
those subjects at present are
overshadowed ny tne nign prices or
food and measures for relief.
May Not Take Holiday Recess.
Because of the crush of business
House leaders, amonn them Speaker
Clark, are advocating abandonment of
the usual holiday recess and urging
night sessions at least twice a week.
Among returning democratic senators
tlie question of selection of a new president
pro tempore is -one of absorbing interest
A caucus probably will be held
early this week. Among senators being
mentioned to succeed the late Senator
Clarke of Arkansas are Pomerene of
Ohio, Saulsbury of 1 >t*la ware. James of
Kentucky, Walsh of Montana, Smith of
Georgia and Bankhead of Alabama.
Some southern senators have urged the
selection, of a western democrat in
recognition of the democratic triumph
at the recent election in that section.
Majority Header Kern of Indiana,
chairman of the caucus, is expected to
reach Washington today, after which
formal arrangements will be made for
choosing the president pro tempore.
Speculation regarding the majority
leadership already is general in view of
lie defeat of Senator Kern for re-election.
Southern senators are sounding out
their colleagues on behalf of Senator
Martin of Virginia. Senator Walsh is
being championed by western democrats.
That the Senate will be urged early
11 the session to consider tile corrupt
practices bill limiting campaign cotiiributions
and to investigate expendiures
of the last campaign has been assured
by an announcement of Senator
Jwen of Oklahoma that he would dejiand
early consideration of his corrupt
practices bill and would again
i>ress some* form of cloture to get a
rote 011 the measure before March 4.
He also proposes to introduce a resoution
directing the committee on privleges
and elections to investigate campaign
expenditures of the republican
inu democrauc parties.
Pushing Prohibition Bills.
Chairman Webb of the House judiciary
committee, upon ills arrival yeserda;y,
began working for passage of
lis nation-wide prohibition and export
rade bills. He declared he did not
relieve the suffrage amendment would
je passed by the present House.
"I have great hopes that my prohibiten
bill will pass." Mr. Webb said. ,,L'nloubtedly
the liquor question is one of
he greatest issues now facing this eounry?the
last election showed that?and
t is high time some additional- federal
iction was taken on it. My bill would
irohibit the manufacture, transportation
ind importation of liquor for beverage
rurposes. It would not interfere with
ising alcohol for scentjflc, artistic or'saca
mental purposes"1
doubt if the suffrage resolution will
>e reported at the coming session, alhough
1 have not sounded members on
heir attitude since arriving here. Cerainly
the suffragists, or a large part of
hem. who are clamoring for a federal
intendment did everything they could to i
lefeat the democratic candidate in the
ast campaign. Hence I cannot see that
hey have strengthened their claim for
iction .n Congress upon us. 1 still think
(Continued on Second * PaiSfeT)"" ~~ '
INVADING ARMIES
WITHIN 5 MILES OF
i BUCHAREST FORTS
j
i Rumanians Offer Desperate
i Resistance, But Germanic
Hosts Close In. i
FOOTING IN KIRLIBABA '
IS GAINED BY RUSSIANS
Slav Pressure Believed Too Lata,
However?Allied Forces Gain
in Dobrudja.
i Kt Mi. A.?im ifii.d
j LON'DON", December 1 --Although th*
! I'umanians apparently are offering
j operate resistance west and south ot
Bucharest, the enemy forces are rapidly
closing in on their capital and even
the most optimistic military critics
here admit that the situation is extremely
critical.
Advices from Berlin today report that
the Danube army is already menacing
? the girdle of fortresses around Buch!
a r**JEt hnvinp- roo r>\y oil th? ArMpbii
lives-, which is only five miles from the
forts.
The Germans ?nd Bulgarians also
j have gained ground northwest of the
I capital by working through the passed
| southeast of t'ampulung. Still another
enemy r'oree is reported to have broken
through and defeated the first Rut
tnanian army southwest of Pileslfti, en-1
abling it to capture general staff oficers.
The Rumanian and Russian com:
I muniques are silent regarding this
; last claim, although both admit thnt
i the Rumanians under pressure veta
J compelled to retire slightly in tmi
i sector. Further west, in Wallachia. the
| Rumanians assert that adverse weather
i conditions are hampering their operations.
Gain Footing in Kirlibaba.
j A Reuter dispatch from Petrograd
j say the Russians have gained a foot|
ing in the town of Kirlibaba and that
i desperate street fighting is in progresa.
German troops occupying the houses are
defending them to the last extremity, the
dispatch says, and reserves are beiog
concentrated in the western part of the
town for a counter-attack.
It is generally believed here that Rus^
sian pressure on von Falkenhayn's army
through Transylvania has come too lata
to offset the rapid gains of the Germans.
, or affect materially the German plans of
. encircling Bucharest. The Russians* latest
t success in capturing a series of heights
south of Kirlibaba gives them an enter!*!;
wedge into Transylvania and pnevff a
most encouraging counter move on the
part of the allies.
Progress in Dobrudja.
That the Russian forces. In conjunction
with the Rumanians, are making progrsg*
in Dobrudja 'is indicated by the lateefc
communications, which report that the
allies have regained part of the Tchemavoda
bridge, compelling the opposing
forces to retire southward from severs!
heights. A sufficient feature t'f the
move from all points in this theater of
war is the absence of claims that either
side is taking large numbers of prisoners,
which seems to indicate the desperate
character of the encounters.
Violent Efforts Are Made
by Russians, But Berlin
Terms Them Fruitless
| Hy i u?? A SHtK'i* i ?-u rn*ss.
j BERLIN, via wireless to Tuckerton,
X. J.. December 2.?The new Russian
movement in the < 'arpathians. along a
front of 300 kilometers, is being carried
j on with great violence, according to the
j Overseas News Agency. The Russia^
(are attempting to push back the army
| of Gen. von Arz by strong pressure in
order to penetrate once more Transylvania
ami menace Gen. von lealkeu.hayn's
army on the flank and rear, tn
| accordance with this plan the Russian
attacks are being directed principally
I against the passes leading from AIdIj
da via to Transylvania, at the very*
points where von Arz's army had driven
back the Russians.
In conjunction with this operation
there have been attacks in tHe Zlola
Li pa district and Xarayuvka. which S
j were repulsed by the Turkish troop? '
November 30 and attacks in the Ludova
j sector November 26.
Russ Attack Repeatedly.
| Further to the south, near KirlibabA.
I in the Jacobeni district, southeast of
! Porna W'atra and between the Fzul and
j Oituz valleys, the Russians have delivj
ered important attacks, which hav*
'been repeated six times in one day, in
j spite of sanguinary losses. The Rufcj
sians. says the Overseas Agency. wer?
'able to make no gain worth mentioning,
i It adds:
"The tenacity displayed by the
sians on the whole Carpathian fronf,
'with disregard for i.en and materials,
| gives importance t;? this offensive,
which is designed for the salvatieji ot
! U'umania." ' r - ; ^?
i v
Rumania Situation Favorable.
The situation in Rumania continues
to develop favorably for the Teutonic
forces, according to this evening's announcement
from the war office.
The effect intended by the Russians
in their attacks in the Carpathians?
the relief of other fronts?has not been
achieved, it is declared, the assaults
on the Teutonic lines proving fruitless.
The text of the statement reads:
"It is officially reported that nothing
important has occurred on either ths
1 western or the eastern front,
j "In the Carpathians, renewed advances
in an effort to relieve othe^
fronts were again without success.
"The situation in Rumania is develop*
ing in our favor.
Heavy Losses for Enemy.
The text of today's statement follows:
* I A.AnVi n.iaai4?
I r I'UU L Ui nn-uuuivv U wovjx.. .
! and Rumanian attacks continue in the
wooded Carpathians and along tha
mountains of the Transylvanian frontier.
Yesterday they were directed especially
against our position on thji
Babaladova and Gurarucada, and yea*
of Dorna Watra, and in the Trotua and
Oituz valleys The attacks were unsuccessful,
the enemy suffering heavylosses.
"German troops during an advance at
one point in the wooded Carpathians
took more than 1,000 prisoners.
Great Battle in W&llachia.
"Front of Field Marshal von Maelcansen:
The engagements in Wlllachla ard
_ _ ^ i
