Site
mmln
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Nov. 29, 32.50.
WEATHER
Arizona
Sunday, unsettled vrtTi
rain.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19. NO. 153.
BIS REE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 3, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
v..
German Prince Is
Possible Successor
To Dutch Throne
THE HAGUE. Netherlands. (Cor
respondence of The Associated Press)
Only two lives, those of the reign
ing Queen and of her seven-year-old
daughter. Princess Juliana, bar the
way in the natural order of things to
the accession to the throne of the
Netherlands of a German prince. It
is true that, so far as health and age
are concerned, those lives may be de
scribed as "first class," but the po
tential slenderness of the thread was
illustrated not long ago in the Hague
woods, where the royal automobile
carrying Queen Wilhelmina and the
little Princess was the victim of a
collision that might under less fortu
nate circumstances have cost the
lives of both.
tutional regulation of the succession
to the throne, the successive princes
called to the throne after I'rinceBS
Juliana are all of German families,
mostly officers in the German army,
naturally all attached heart and soul
and bound to the German policy?
Monarchical coupling of this country
to another, by a prince who could
hardly be anything but an imperial
prince-envoy, and who might be ad
monished lroni abroad to bear him
self "like a good "German," of whom
moreover, nothing is known here save
that he has not the slightest relations
with this country, would be a very
serious matter for the coming times."
As regards the exact form that the
proposed constitutional revision
SOME SEE IN JOHN I). WELLS, EDITOR, ANOTHER RILEY
This question of the succession1 should take. Prof. D. P. 1). Fabius. yet
another writer on the subject, argues
in favor of simply putting all possible
claimants besides Princess , Juliana
out of court, of binding the country
in no way to any house or person out
side the offspring of Wilhelmina, and
thus In case of the necessity occurr
ing leaving the States General, an un
questionably free choice in the mat
ter. On the other hand. Professor II.
Louis Israels, a well known publicist,
wants to take a cue from the Ameri
can constitution, which itself borrow
ed so' much from Dutch political law,
in its prescription that only a born
American can be elected head of the
State. He would have the rule laid
down that only those who were born
and had remained Hollanders would
by right of inheritance succeed to the
throne of the Netherlands.
No sign hag yet been made by the
government as to whether they would
contemplate taking up the matter at
this juncture. Probably a good deal
depends upon the view entertained at
the Royal Palace.
gave Dutchmen some concern before
the war, and much more now. Sever
al well known public men have drawn
public attention to the matter in the
last few days,. nd what looks like a
strong agitation, enjoying widespread
sympathy, lias been started for a re
vision of the Constitution declaring
null .and void all potential rights of
succession of foreign princes, leaving
the choice of a new sovereign, in such
on unhoped-for and unexpected cir
cuxstance as the failure of all direct
heirs to the throne, entirely to the
States General or Parliament of the
country For every Dutchman, prac
tically without exception, whatever
be his sympathies in the present war,
would regard the accession of a Ger
man prince as a calamity, threaten
ing the so dearly-cherished indepen
dence of the nation.
In the House of Orange, Holland is
Messed with a dynasty bound to Hol
land and Holland alone i by such
strong ties that no one at home or
at wad would dream of buggesting
that the counsel chambers of the
Crown are accessible to other than
purely Dutch interests. But if that
bouse were left without living issue,
the1 next claimants to the throne
would be found among the collateral
princely houses of Saxe-Weimar and
Reuss-Kostritz. followed or accom
panied by those of Saxe-Mainingen,
Hohenzollern, another branch of
Re8!Kostritz, Sehleswig-Hdlsteifi,
Norway, Sahcumburg-Lippe, Sweden
and Wied one and all equally' foreign"
to the Netherlands. '
Professor J. A. Van Hamel, a dis
tinguished authority on law, declares Gall Stones, Cancer and Ulcers of the
in the Amsterdammer: "This game ! stomach and Intestines, Auto-Intoxi-of
Interests with German royal rela- j cation Vellow jaun Appendicitis
tions on foreign thrones must teach , and other fata, ,mMtl resuIt from
us that small powers should beware ' A . . . .
if they do not desire to see. in their i StomaCh Troub,e' ThU8an8
highest government circles, foreign I Stomach Sufferers owe their complete
k ... .u recovery to Mayr's Wonderful Rem-
.i.uu iu lUc. ,edy Cnlike any other for Stomach i
put in yiace 01 ineir national inieresis i Viments For ale by BisDee Drug
Is the fact sufficiently reckoned with Co.. Lowell Drug Co., Lowell, Arizons.
that, according to the present consti-and all other reliable druggists.
ftf -WELLS
Qn IbgfaptiT of otfjfr's
The older that body gits
The better, teemt t' me.
He rckole:t the iolk as' joke
tn' things that used V be;
Like other night, whilst tcttin' there
An' rompin' through the years.
An' dnftia' on the back'uidi way.
I swan, I heerd my mother lay:
" Co wash yer neck an' cars! "
It to.-k me back fer forty years.
An' I's a boy again.
With sirae dislike ter water that
Was natural to me then;
I seemed f feel my speerit nse.
An' (eel my boyish tears
A-rollin' down in same ol' way.
Like when my mother used V say:
" Cs wash yer neck an' cars! "
Clean ntck an' tart, you reckolect.
Was purl' nigh disgrace
There wa'n't no sense in washin' 'cept
Perhaps a body's jacef
We used t' think that ma was made
To add to boyish keers.
An' stand around in botjin' way.
When boys was tircdest. an' say:
Go wash yer neck an' cars I "
An' yit I B warrant that tonight
You'd like I' go to bed
la same ol' room, with locust bloom
A-droppin' overhead
On shingle roof, an' hold yer breath
With all your boyish (ears.
An' hear yer mother softly creep
Upstairs an ask y": " Cone to Sleep?
Did jr wash yer neck an' ears T "
Norway's Big Losses
From German Subs
Awake War Spirit
CHRISTIANA. Norway. Norway
j with the third largest n. errant ile ma
I rine in the world, has sufftred severe
; losses;'- t'p to date they have totalled
! 150 steamers of 235.900 tons, insured
j by the "War Insurance Association"
I for $25,000.0"O, sailing ships aggregat
I ing 50,0110 tons, and insured for $1,
i 888,000, and many sailing craft loaded
j with lumber and pit props Tor Eng
land which were not insured. One
j hundred and fifty sailors have lost
j their lives, fifty of them by German
torpedoes from submarines and the
others when ships have been destroy
ed ty mines. Besides these many
boats have been taken by belligerents
and confiscated after prize court pro
ceedings. Germany, after a few months rest,
suddenly started a submarine warfare
against Norwegian ships last Septem-1
ber much sharper and more merciless 1
than ever before exposing the lives ,
3
is one of Norway's main trades, yield
ing a great surplus for export, since)
the war so much fish has been x port
ed thr.t there has not been enough
left for Norway itself and the country
has been deprived of one of its main
foodstuffs. The export to Germany
has been increasing to such an extent
that the people demanded that the
government should take steps to pro
vide fish enough for the home markvc
After the torpedoing by German
submarines of Norwegian ships in the
Arctic. ocean and along the coast this
fall the ordinance of October 13 was
passed, which like the Swedish, for
bids belligerent submarines the use
of Norwegian waters.
The Germans themselves declare
they do not need and never used Nor
wegian waters in their warfare. Ev
erybody here then asks how the Nor
wegian ordinance can be taken as
alone directed against Germany and
THE
EAGLES BAZAAR
WILL OPEN
MONDAY EVENING
DECEMBER 4
Since the death of James Vhit- "Farmers from ten villages were1 on for two hours to plain folks who
comb Riley, the Hoosier Poet, the present. I Guess they know a real , un Jerstood every word, who jui
common people, those to whom poet! you can't fool 'em with fel-; wanted more and more When 'tw
Kilcy'a poems had the preatest heart I lers like Le Gallienne. who sinp of over they climbed up to him anil
appeal, have asked, "Who will take Spring and have Fall crops a-bloom- loved him. .
his place?" His works, of course, ing in June. I "John D. Wells has a tremenrlou-
will live forever. - i "The Ladies' Auxiliary rave a sup- 'following now, a larger follow-in"
Th Fr aH?nrr6rW Ji" T? per in hU hnr- ' Pbably than had Riley when he con
"The Fra." declares that John D.( Cy Rosen introduced the guest of Lhuted to the Indianat.olis paper
Wells, ex-cavalryman, farmer, me- the some attempted I "b.untnCiy ,!a AmSho"e
chanic and now ed,r - will naturally humor g. .John D. Rockefeller!? "f'.AT i l7v n.
fall heir to the mantle dronned bvit .. -j l -i.jiwno work for a living! I have nc
-- - -- - r i , i-i n a n Kii inn i ri n iiudb nsi cm r r.ni i on i . -
nf mnnv aailnra tn fh 1 a n vara tt tha
,,. r(, ., .. .. . how it can be taken as an attempt to
arctic storms. At the same time, it is i , . . . . .'
j , i u ... , tamper with the German machinery,
declared, a hostile campaign against ' . . , ,
. , . . , I The press except the socialist Dap-
Norway was launched in the German , . 1 v r
11 . .L v- , ers unanimously stand by the gov
press, all of which the Norwegian peo-. .... . . .
, . w . , ernnient in this case and will support
p!e have been unable to understand. ,. . ... , . " " "u'e'"-
iipiiiiiuniK int; rif;nt ox .Norway r
, keep the sovereignty on its own terri
tory.
The
The more Norway has tried to pre-
- serve us neutrality, tne more uissai-1
isfied, according to the Norwegian
viewpoint, has the German chauvinis
tic press been and papers such as the ,
German press lately claited
that no Norwegian sailor had been
killed by German torpedoing of Nor-
tcr Zeitung" very often have threat- i
I w
.cgian ships. The "Morgecbladet"
ened mercantile reprisals after the
1 war.
Nothing
seems to
reoa'Is that the Norwegian steamer
Svein Yori. on June 9. 1915, was tor-
! pedoed when bound for Norway with
? .. - ... P .nH sn,m n John D. Wells is . " lna.1 W,ln,n 7W..OT n
Of Wells. Shay says, "I prophesied I (meaninff no money) he just win M W mntKr 7r I
Riley goes out, and m comes Wells' e doub)e . of eVerything at fcn L'Lwf"!'"'1
doubt that within a year or so Wells-
rything
"Then John D. red aloud to them.
"Go Ask Your Maw, Ol Doc
Falinsbee, The Man Who Used To
Know You When You Didn't Have a
t Church at East; Cent Go Wash Your Neck and Ears
... ri" i" " t.:" : i' -:"u. !a church dinner
lime iuiirr. ,um tew uiuia bru
John D. Wells, editor of the Buffalo
News, had read selections from his
Svazy Folks, Old Good Byes and
Howdy-do's Your Folks jnd Mine, at
thi? V.thod:
Auioi y.
when he won't care a whoopertip!
"Yes, I think Wells will take 'Jim
Riley's place in the Hearts of Amen
can People. He writes that kind '
Poetry we all agree is 'rotten V
just like we said Riley's stulT w:
rotten: and then we go and im
vA.. . 1
1 . . . . a cargo or coal for the steamship line
greater bitterness in Germany asainst !..,,. . . .
i Norway than the government's ordi-! eIve f erew ,ost ,,heir
, nances rrohiblting the export of cer-' ,lvf" an' G"rnla,n3r fcas f"'
I , - , , . jr ui i-- - , 1 guilt and agreed to pay full damage,
tain foodstuffs, which. Norway needs i ' , ,. . .
t ,, .u ,1 The steamer Lough in ballast, was
' for itself PRnerllllv t ho nnlmnnpA rA ' n
last August prohibiting export of cer- .
Although fishing ; .,... . ...... .
' Shadders Fi--!:'.' Fault and so lit and cry over it!"
tain kinds of fish.
I
iBraaapr,
Stomach Trouble and Constipation.
Those who are afflicted with stom
ach trouble and constipation should
read the following: "I have never
found anything so good for stomach
trouble and constipation as Chamber
lain's Tablets. I have used them off
and on now for the past two years.
They not only regulate the action of
the bowels but stimulate the liver and
keep one's body in a healthy condi
tion," writes Mrs. Benjamin Hooper.
Auburn, N. Y. Advertisement.
H. Snodgrass, rubber stamp maker.
Phone Black 647, 120 Tombstone Can
yon. Advertisement. 744
LATEST TYPE BRITISH HOWITZER ON THE SOMME FRONT
i '
A ':,:t :? :
.. -' - W:-!
. V. .. ; -; 1?'":w -
t $ ,v r-: I ' '
' . Vl- tJ1: : W- f : fir" ' i 1
' C - iLvK f?v9 1 frffV,, - v-'
. ii&jkwji isi k& 'h m h $ '
SUTTER INTERESTS
BOSTON CAPITAL
IN JEROME CLAIMS
Bi?bee Attorney Returns from
Jerome Where He Closed a
Deal for Mining Ground!
No Stock Offered Public
A rew type of British heavy gun, on a snet-ially constructed railway c:irr...g. . in
fruit. It is with guns of this sort that Britain hopes to blast her way into Germany.
action on the o:nme
Judge Fred Sutter has returned
from the Jerome district where he
was representing Boston capitalists
in the organization of the Jerome Del
Monte Company. The corporation is
capitalized for two million shares, six
hundred thousand of which were
bought entirely by the organizers at
fifty cents per share and the three
hundred thousand dollars placed in
the treasury for immediate use of de
veloping the property. Judge Sutter
is a director in the Jerome Del Monte
Company and no stock was offered
the public and the new company com
mences operations on a solid financial
basis. Forty one claims have been
taken over by the Jerome Del Monte
Company and these adjoin the thirty
eight claims of the Ellison & Gadsden
Copper Company, whose stock is now
controlled by the C. & A. Company.
Chamberlain's Tablets.
Chamberlain's Tablets are intended
especially for stomach troubles, bil
iousness and constipation, and have
met with much success in the treat
ment of those diseases. People who
have suffered for years with stomach
troubles and have been unable to obtain-any
permanent relief, have been
completely cured by the use of these
tablets. Chamberlain's Tablets are
also of great value for biliousness.
Chronic constipation -may be perma
nently cured by taking Chamberlain's
Tablets and observing the plain print
ed directions wilh each bottle.
Advertisement.
directly lost their lives by Cernian
torpedoing.
The "Morgenbladef continues: "If
the German press believes it can mis
lead opinion in Norway and deprive
MONDAY EVENING ,h Pvernnient f te necessary sup-
nrrPMnrD A -ir Prt 11 13 S"eatiy mistaken. -Nobody
uu.u.LjiriiJu.iv
THE
EAGLES BAZAAR
WILL OPEN
4
j here loving the fatherland will. In
j a serious situation, help overthrow
Vitolox
Tills word means LIFE and strength.
Use It and you will know that the
name is just right.
VITOLOX purifies the blood, cor-,
j D. Coleman, assistant general man
rects disorders of the stomach, im- ager or Canadian Pacific Railroad, has
proves the appetite, tones up the kid- issued insfuctions that under no cir-
cums'anres should any Canadian Paci
neys and a sure shot for rheumatism, fie freight car be permitted to cross
Get a bottle at any drug store, 1.00 or intoJlhe l'n"eI States. American rail
roads are said to have 20,000 Canadian
6 tor J5 00. ' Pacific cars now.
the cabinet by disclaiming Norway's
j right and duty to proteel the lives
! and property of its citizens to the
' best of our ability. We do not want
i to wrong anybody, we do not want to
' Injure foreign life or foreign proper
i ty we only want to live by ourselves,
our own national life without being
hiur.iliated or treated with arrogance."
a 'SiV'flv.
house or rr r- northern fraxce
IS SACRIFICED TO THE GOD OF WAR
This pvture allows the ruins of the church of Nctre Dame de Brebieres
ar Albert, France, as they Irok tciluy. The f ?ure of the Virgin
holding the InfanL C!.iit fcas toon hanging in the position shown in the
photograph for over a year.
IN THE HIGHLANDS OF WESTERN
FLORIDA
100 to 250 feet above sea level.
25 miles from the Gulf of Mexico.'
3S miles from the' Port of Tamoa. .
Main line Seaboard Air Line ItailwAy
Tampa to Jacksonville.
G daily passenger trains, many freight
trains.
Along the National Highway; hard au
tomobile road.
Drinking water absolutely pure.
Malarial and similar fevers practically
unknown. An ideal home country
surrounding a newly created central
City, a City of fine homes: churches:
graded schools: a bank: Commercial
houses; ice and electric nlants;
parks; tennis; golf: lake fishing,
b"nHnT and swimming.
Rural free delivery system.
On the hills and In the valleys are
cultivated farms; 5 to 40 acre farms
of fruits, vegetables, field crops;
poultry; Jiogs and dairy products.
Ccol niehts; days of potent sunshine
for winter crops.
A locality of prosperity, health and In
dependence. A community of contentment and pro
gress. Illustrated Booklet and other inter
esting Information free. Bank 'and
other references on demand.
Write to E. R. Phillips, 414 Trust
Building, El Paso, Texas.
lfi r i - i 1
- -v
