THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWKNTY-SKVKXTII YKAlt
20 PAOKS
PHOENIX, AKIZOXA, K'-SJVAV MORNING, DEOKM UVM 1916
20 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 198
MEXICAN FIGHTING IS
STILL GOING ON; VILLA
SAID TO BE DEFEATED
Murguia Claims He
Game, Saw and Was
Easily the Victor
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Jl'ARKZ, Mex., Itec. Sf.-An official
dispatch from Mexico City guying that
Central Murguia had defeated Villa
troops that tried yesterday to block
his advance and was moving on Chi
huahua today, received confirmation
here in a report by direct line from
Sauz to the' effect that Murguia and
Trevino had already joined forces and
were attacking the city on the south
side today.
General Murguia and his division
had puzzled the Carranza authorities
here for some days, and even started a
rumor that he had withdrawn to Tor
reon. It is now officially said that his
slow progress north from his base ut
Lscalon, ubout ls5 miles south of Chi
huahua, was due to the effective
wrecking of the Mexican Central track
by Villa.
General Ozuna is to be stationed to
the north of Chihuahua City with a
strong government force.
Xo details of the fighting have been
received, however. Hut a high officer
here said he would not be surprised to
get news at any time that Villa had
evacuated. As trains supposed to be
filled with loot were leaving Chihuahua
west over the line of the Mexico North
western several days ago, he said he
assumed that Villa would take that di
rection. Xo Villa bands have been reported
north of Sauz, which is 25 miles north
from Chihuahua City.
Another Report
Ql'ERETAKO. Mex.. Dec. 2. General
Francisco Murguia reported to General
Carranza today that he had routed a
band of Villa followers, numbering 2.600
men. and had pursued them about 12
miles toward Chihuahua City. The
general reported that he was continu
ing his advance toward Chihuahua to
day. The message said the bandit force
fied in disorder, some toward Santa
Vsabel and others toward Chihuahua
City. The Carranza troops pursued
them four hours, the message saiu.
capturing three machine guns, many
rifles and some horses.
Many prisoners were taken, the
message said,' adding that they were
executed. The dispatch said Villa's
losses were heavy. '
Colonel Cantelario Garcia and several
other officers were wounded, the mes
sage stated. The dispatch declares
Villa had 2.'00 men.
-arego' Report
F.L PASO. Tex., tec. 1. A message
received from General Obregon at Mex
ico City late today gave details of a
battle between General Murguia's
forces and the Villa troops about 3C
miles south of Chihuahua City. The
battle took place yesterday, starting
at 10 o'clock in ttie morning and last
ing six hours. The Yllkt men were de
feated. General Obregon's message, which
was received by way of Kagle I'ass,
Texas, contained this account of the
fight from General Murguia, sent from
bis amp on December 2:
"My advance guards came into con
tact with those u( the bandit Villa at
10 o'clock today, and after a fight of
six hours' duration the enemy, com
pletely disorganized, fled in disorder, a
part heading for Banta Ysabel and
others for Chihuahua. Our pursuit was
followed for twelve miles over the
mountains. We captured three ma
chine guns and a large quantity of
armament and many saddled cavalry
horses, besides a large number of pris
oners who were executed on the sit.
"The losses of the enemy are heavy,
but no account could be made of them,
as wo have left the field. 1 regret to
state that Colonel Candelario Garcia
was killed in action, and other officers
were wounded. The names and details
I shall send later, together with the
losses In the ranks.
"The action was entirely over by 4
o'clock in the afternoon.
"The enemy numbered, according to
prisoners, 2,;0 men, who left Chi
huahua yesterday with the purpose of
Intercepting our advance.
"After reorganizing my forces, I am
continuing rny advance to Chihuahua,
expecting to arrive at an early hour
tomorrow. Murguia."
Leave for Juarez
FTF.LD HKADtjCARTF.US PUNI
TIVE EXPEDITION IX MEXICO. Dec.
2. (Via radio to Columbus, N. M.)
Colonel Gonzales Diaz, with about 125
men, entrained tonight at Casas
Grandes for Juarez. This force cum
posed the garrison at El Valle, a town
near the southernmost camp of the
punitive expedition and its withdrawal
leaves this section of Chihuahua with
out Carranza soldiers.
The Carranza leader, whose march
from El Valle to Casas Grandes was
made part way in the company of an
American wagon train, spoke of the
cordial relations existing between his
men and the American soldiers during
the past six months.
A rumor that Guzman had been oc
cupied by American cavalry was de
nied today at army headquarters.
Americans Killed
EL PASO, Tex., Dec. 2. A rumor
spread through El Paso tonight that
three Americans, Charles Elmendorf,
Henry Harries and George Brittlng
ham, have been killed in Chihuahua
by Villa troops. Its source, however,
proved hard for relatives and friends
to trace down. Warren Hrittingham,
a son, said that he had been unable to
verify the reported death of his father,
and Frank Elmendorf said that he had
nothing tangible as to the fate of his
brother Charles.
CONGRESS TO HEAR ABOUT IT
WASHINGTON, Dee. & After President Wilton hat concluded hi
addrett before congrtti Tuesday it is poitible ha may deliver a brief ad
dress dealing with the high cott of living.
The pretidtnt't plant on the tubject are at yet indefinite, and may not
be matured until the latt moment before he goet to congrett. It it known,
however, that th adminittratien consider the high cott of living ona of
the mott pretting quettion before th country and that many of the preti
dent clotett admirera favor contidenng it in the executive tettion.
The court which the president it understood to favor i exttntion of
pretent law to meet alleged compiracia for cornering food and price
fixing.
Villa Worrksr'the
Government; Afraid
He Will Come Back
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', Dec. 2 -While they
wait for General Carranza to accept or
reject the protocol signed by the Joint
commission at Atlantic City, admin
istration officials are giving much at
tention to every rciirt relating to the
activities of Villa und to rebel move
ments in other parts of Mexico.
Additional information reaching the
state and war departments today tend
ed to confirm the story of Villa's cap
ture of Chihuahua City as related by
refugees at the lxirder but none of the
dispatches Inuicated that the bandit I measures, both military ;iml economic,
leader was m.JVing northward to at- I b cabinet directorate of five ad
tack Juarez. j vised by General Sir William R. Rob-
. Off icials are frank In their i.lmiln '
that the renewed strength of Villa may
prove an embarrassing factor in view
of the probable resumption of confer- '
encM. hv the i..i,.t .mmi-.i ,h,.
drafted the protocol providing for con
ditional withdrawal of General Pcrah- ,
lug's troops. It is realized that a suc
cessful attack by Villa on General Mur-
rnl n., ,lv. !.,., t-r. .m ,h '
u. i i . ..... with the king today, u huh lai ntshe f..urnul a the Dnilv Chror.lt le. Hit-
might lead to uncon ested ilia control a ba!(i!, fl)I ne afternoon paP-rs lo . Westminster Cuztte "and the Man
or the city of chihuahua and other predltt his resignation. He said h - ! t hest-r GiaUian recently have lK
towtis of the state and present a most would consult with the king as a mat- come criiic.il. Th- trend of di.ston
embarrassing situation for the L'nited ler of course, over any Important gov- tent has been p;.rtly against the Ro,'
btates. eminent changes. j crnmcnt system, 'artlv agains; ce--
All reports received here, however. A war council was formed in the . tain numbers cf the cabinet. Slo.v-
inlitate that General Murguia will caainet last year, but the minimum i net in rvachlnir d.K islons and Inac.
nuta every enort to recapture Chlhua-
oua v iiv anu i e i n tin or rmv urn.
cers is that he should -ive little diffi-
culty in doing so. It Is assumed that
Villa's supply of ammunition must
have been materially reduced by his
five days of fighting against General
Trevino, and it is regarded as logical
anu in line wun villas tactics that he
will evacuate Chihuahua after taking
:o the hills sift-h supplies as he can se-
ure. The department reports indicate
that a considerable portion of Tre-
vino's force Joined Villa after the Chi-
huahua battle
Villa's success in the noi
rth has
prompted officials to study with more
anxiety movements in other parts of
the country. The operations of Gen
eral Felix Diaz in the extreme south of
Mexico have been extended somewhat
and information has reached here that
he and his agents have made earnest
efforts to secure the cooeratioii of ,
v 111a anu inner renei leaders who have
!een conducting independent opera
tioiis.
Heiween Mexico City and Vera Cruz
jfficliil dis'.Mitrhes say only interrupted
railroad traffic exists, the Mexican !
Itailway having been repeatedly cut In '
the last two weeks. At one time that
line was brcken at more than 10 places.
Farther north, in the oil producing dis
tricts Manuel Palaez, who has held
considerable territory for more than a ' W" arriving in Hie caiutal in mr e
year, has Increased his influence and. '""'!'nt for the opening session -M m
uccording to official information, is ne- ,di,' I'-etutnIng members talk of new
gotiatlng with Diaz for Joint actioru : '""'a D1ul '! ' l'"ln
Between Tampico and San Luis Po-
tosl, the Cediilo Bros, are reported to
have adopted more active methods in
preventing the operation of railroads
jver which is moved much of the oil
needed by Carranza for the operation
of his trains,
Tiie Increased operations of the dif
ferent rebel bands has been made the
basis of unofficial efforts by Mexicans
to have lifted the embargo on ammunl-
lion, and it is regarded almost as a' cer- j prohibition, corrupt practice measures
tainty that the discussion of that phase jand other unfinished business will be
of the situation will be taken up at the pre-sed, for consideration, and that
adjourned session of the Joint commls- (efforts may be made to Investigate al
slon. The reports received here re-! lecea election frauds and cxi.cnditnr.-a
garding the fate of foreigners at Chi
huahua are conflicting. One dispatch
forwarded by General Bell said several
Chinese had lost their lives, but a con
sular message contained another ref
ugee's story that only two foreigners,
both Chinese, had been killed and that
Villa had given orders that there should
be no looting. There were about laO
foreigners In Chihuahua at the time of
the fight, according to state depart
ment estimates, and the stories brought
to the border Indicate that General
Trevino evacuated the city without ad
vising the foreign consular represen
tatives.
It was believed tonight that by Mon
day, word might be received of the de
cision of Carranza regarding the At
lantic City protocol. Alberto J. Panl,
the Mexican commissioner, who carried
the document to Queretaro, was In
Mexico City today, but it is known that
he placed the signed copy In the hands
of General Carranza before leaving
Queretaro.
nepubllcsr A. P. Leated Wire
LAREDO, Tex., Dec. 2. Twenty-six
persons, including two constitutional
ist generals were killed by bandits, al
leged adherents of Francisco Villa, In
an attack on a train at Talla, between
Torreon and Paredon, Novemlter 28,
according to reliable Information re-
OFFICERS SHOT SOI I COLO
BLOOD BY VILLA'S FOLLOWERS
DISSATISFACTION REIGNS I
BRITAIN; CABINET CRISIS IS
FORERUNNER OF BIG CHANGE
Question of Resignation of Premier Asquiti Bronght Up, Following His Lengthy Con
ference With the King. Overbalanced Cabinet Thought to Be Too Large for Con
duct of War. Cabinet of Five Suggested Under Advisement of Military and Naval
Leaders. Press Make Bitter Attacks on Government, Sir Edward Carson May Be
Called Back Into Cabinet. Slow Decisions Preceded by Wrangling Thought Source
of Trouble.
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
J.ONOON. Dec. 2. The- I"'""' "' '
crisis which i Is tne m.spi.per seiwa-
tlon of the hour. Is generally beiievd
,to mean the future control of all war ;
ertson. cmei ot me imperial nan, una
Admiral Sir John R. Jellicoo, tlrst sea
lotd.
reslg,,;tion of
1 ''T 'T.h
Premier Asquith
The question of the
to giv
David I.lovd George or Andrew Bonar
I -aw also Is discussed, but mat .Mr. I
Asquith will resign appears inipiol.- :
able. I
Th.. r.r.ml.r l..nT t. ,1 :,.....,!
.V" 1" - ." . . .
number of five, whit h .Mr. As.;ul;h
tn.n unnt.nt.i-.t hnw i.ften evfte.te.i
end the po pillar invr-.-sion is thai :
the council has teen largely a failure ,
be-ause its decisions were subject to .
debute nd ratification by th f nil ,
cabinet. j
The forecast of the netv war conn- ,
r" 1 rt-nio-r viohi. inuti i.intu- j
eorge, Andrew t ouar i.-ivv, Artnur . was announceti more man a lortntgiu
J- Palfoiir and Sir Edward Carson 'ago, hut none has been appointed yet.
stands, hot doubts are xpresse.1 f This Is one complaint. The unvvielu-
"'hether Sir Kdwarrf Carson, who re- nes of a cubinet of 2J for managing
R'K'"'J fi"""1 e cabinet a yeir am in "rent war Is n mint on vvlii-Ti the
because re w:is disatisf with the'crltici seem unnnimoos. As a toun-
government's polity In the Hilkini.
when Serbia wis lxintr h.inl p-ess-d.
PLANS DISCUSSED
( Republican A. P. Leased Wirr)
WASHINGTON'. Dec. 2. Congress
thit Mttle older 'than appropriation
bills will he pisse, in the s'.iort ses
sion. SurfHce Indications give nn.tiir
rtnee that the hlgri cost of living will
be ut least a subject i,f many pro
iMt.als. ranging from an embargo tin
fotnl exMirts to official infest igatlnn
of alltgeil conspiracies to inflate
prices.
Congressmen appreciate that rail
road problems, conservation legishi
t;n immiirniiion. Juffraire ol
of the national enmpnign.
Those subjects at present arc over
shadowed by the high prices of f..od
and measur"x for relief. For nn out
line of the administration program,
members are awaiting the address of
Pie-ddcnt Wilson Itefore a Joint ses
sion Tuesday. Because of ihe rush
of business, louse leaders, among
th"m Speaker Clark, aie advocating
the abandonment of the usual holi
day recess and urging night sessions
at least twice a week.
Among returning democrat!-.' sera
tors, th question of si hi ting t new
president pro temis.re is one of lb
sorhing interest. A caucus probably
will be held early next week. Among
senators being mentioned to succeed
the late Senator Clirke of Arkansas,
are Pomerene of Ohio. Salisbury of
Delaware. James of Kentucky Walsh
of Montana, and Bankhead of Alaba
ma. Some southern senators have
urged the selection of a western dem-
celved tonight. The bandits were un
der command of Fortunato Salinas.
The names of the two dead gener
The name, of the two dead generals
were given as Torihlo De Los Santos.
and Gabriel Calzado.
After tho guard had been killed, ac
cording to the information Salinas
lined up and robbed every passenger
coinu pour
INTO wnCTflN
! IIBIU iinuiuiiui Ull
on cue train, tie men reaa wnut pur- vWpk m ;in opportunity of speaking
ported to he thj? latesr Villa "manl- l0 yo tact. trl txr(. an(l tt through
resto as follows: . ' th(, ndiun, f delegations and com-
L. 'h J?,: A" loyal Mexicans anust Join mttees. who no not always interpret
the Villa trause and those who refuse t0 you an (,cC,irate account of what
will be considered traitors and im- transpires between the committees
mediately shot. j ari the heads of the company. There
"Second: Railroads are to lie con- .tre fvc questions, as I understand
sldered property of the .Mexican pco- them thi.t are to be decided,
pie, and all rights foreigners may First whether or not a profit shar
have had, are declared void. , jng system based on a scale of wages
"Third: Foreigners after twenty-five which rises as the price of 'copper
years' resident In Mexico -must be- rises, nnd which lowers as the price
come citizen of the republic or be of copper lowers. This question has
expelled. ;ben deliberately considered and the
Fourth: No American citizen can reoly of the company Is that the
acquire property rightss or enjoy any wages In the camp will not be in
privlleges not accruing to Mexican creased until the plant Is producing.
citizens."
The dead arc understood to
have
been Mexican.
will rejoin. The attacks upon- t!.e sentiment that they fail to credit the
government and certain numbers of administration with the great work it
t.aunrt ,tcMltlv rsen , ,e,lu,H "'"npHshe,! in the military and
'annul n.ie recently risen to me f . .. ,. ., .,.(,,,, ..... .....
highest tiiie attained since the. begin- i
ning of the war. Although Hie news- !
I'.i:wm nave miai r.eu me Kut eminent
and Individual . ministers whenever it
was bought affairs were going wrong. !
there bus been no press censorsh.p
whatsoever on politi. at cisctissioti aid j
the papers deal wuh the adm.nlMra-
time llH tie Amrican papers do
the teat of a political camoniicn
While the NorUuliffc press und the
Morning Post have mailt the fiei :esl
., . u ....-..'.. I !-;...
" ' " . ut t. ... . . m.-n, .... n . 4
tton
Is the gist of the indictment. The I
t.rm.
iclpal counts of this :r- Die man
power 'id food nuest'ons. while re- i
t ently dissatisfaction with what some i
con-ioer a wiint of vigor In the man- I
agi m.-nt of the n vv and weakness In J
the foreign office h is been increasing- 1
ly expres-cd.
1 ne aproimmetti or a iooi uifi;M.ir -
ter-hjih nee to tl-e critics, tl ere Is a 1
widespread and weighty, but le.s local
Const an tine Will
Give Ut) Guns to
the Allied Fleet
fPepubllcar A. P. Leated Wire
Athens, where after a day of panic
and flghtlr.g in the streets and on the
hillsides King Constautlne acceded to
tile demand of the entente commander
and agreed to surrender the artillery
demanded by the French vice uilmir.il,
snares with the Teutonic concentration
upon Bucharest and the Kussian drive
in the wooded Carpathians as a center
of war interest.
The series of engagements marking
the advance of the Teutonic troops
UJxm Bucharest are developing Into
a great battle. From Berlin comes ihe
announcement that the first Rumanian
army, which has offered battle on the
Argechu river, southeast of Pitechtl,
northwest of the Rumanian cupital. has
been defeated after a tenacious strug
gle. Whether this Indicates the turning
of the right wing of the Kumanian
iirmles Is not cle: The capture of
more than 6.V1SJ Kumanian troops Is
announced.
The attacks upon the Rumanian
troops on the roads from Pitechti to
Bucharest comtielled only a slight re
tlrement of the defenders, according to ' government made now mav be over
the Russian announcement . turned at the peace c-irtfereni e.
The Rumanian resistance south of j The full text of the protest signed
Bucharest has stiffened, and Tzotn.ma ' ' y Fii'iflelkhatih. acting secretary of
and Gortinarl have been recaptured j foreign affairs Is as follows:
from the invading forces. The Kus-j "In the name of Jusilce and Inter
sians have regained possession of the j national law we entrr a solemn pro-
western part of Tchernavoda. bridge
arross the Danulie. A. fierce battle con
tinues In the wooded Carpathians and
along the Bukowlna and Moldavian
t
(Continued on Page Seven)
(Special to The Republican)
AJo. Dec. I. That the New Cornelia
will not grant the demands of 850
striking electricians, machinists anil
Carpenters, was word coaveyed to a
mass meeting here yesterday by Gen-
! eral Mnnnser, J. C. Greenway In res
ponse to their request for a sliding
seal? and the company ban on all
i non-union wotkmen. Captain Green-
w?. r 7h Ve r,,,..,,. rn.
per company. 1 have come here at
the request of many of the old time
employees to address you upon the
subject now uppermost In your mind.
, welcome the invitation, because
It
! Tnls decision Is reached for two
STRIKERS
nrnnn nn anr -
III" 11 1 U 111 1 I 1 (Continued on Fare Seven)
I
TURNED 001 LONDON ABOUT CUES OF HOPE
nr niimin n iinniiMin niniTii
I
i
(Continued on Page Two;
, . '.
of discussion in the Sunday news-
...,.,r T,. iv,.i iw l ...... .... i,
rj , i(! d t (:u Um,
u , ,. . ,,.,. tll). f,rmali(m
,.r .-..m . ,,.n i... ...i-.. v,.
i.-.iu.Mrj Carson l.oi ev.'ln.li-.i.
Hal ou
I 'rentier
first lord
'iirsim and
Lloyd George, the Weekly Dispatch
adds, are not unwilling that A. linar
i-iw should have a seat in the council,
! but he is undecided.
The Sunday Times Kayti:
I "fir Ktlward atson's intimate asso
ciates are not aware that he has de
cided to Join the cabinet. Carson is
' uuite willing to Join a cabinet headed
by Lloyd George and other leading
unionists will follow the example, but
the suggestions that Honar Law should
;tke office for a short time as a 'warm
)nf. ,,an '"r Lloyd George is quite
ludicrous
The obersrver says:
"Certain ministers are resolved not to
continue in office anything like the
present terms. Chief among them are
i.lod George and Ponar Law. It was
reM.irve last nigni mat tney had both
resigned."
J. U Garvin, writing In the Observer,
of which he is editor, says that Lloyd
George ought to be charged with the
direction of the war. He ent rates Bal
four to resign, saying that the first lord
f the admiralty should be a sailor, not
a civilian
ASKS FOR RELIEF
f eni btie.m A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 2. The new
kiniium of Arabia, org mixed a monta
ago has liegun its diplomatic career,
with a vigorous proten "to Ihe civl
liz'd world" against alleged cruelties
of "tin land of unionists npd affili
ates" ..t Constantinople, who are tle
i lired to have treated prisoners brut
aily. A tiy of the communication
resn-hetl the stale department today.
How ihe l'nited States can respond
is a problem, as the department has
not yet tiisvovered how the nev for
eign o'fUe iin be communicate,! with.
The l'nited States has no consular
md diHloinatic representatives in Ara-
I bla nt.il has not been able to acknow-
I 'edge the kingdoms organization. B
is certain, however, that no definite
action will be taken until the end of
th" war. since this country Is follow
ing Mile theory that any changes In
test to tro ,-lvlllzed world against th
band of unionists and affiliates which
Inflicted all manner of cruelty on the
women and children of the Innocent
population of Alawnli and is now re
lating its elaborate u'ts of cruelt','
i-ven at Medina, hv sentencing to
death by hanging and to forced labor.
"The echo of these atrocities has
been brouuht to the general in charge
of our army of the west whose van
guard Is in touch with the enemy by
n. delegation comprising everv class
of the people thnt enme to him to
upenl to the Arabian government for
Repcblican A. P. Leated Wire
LONDON, Dec- 2. Although the
Rumanians apparently are offering
desperate resistance west and south
of Bucharest, the enemy forces are
rapidly closing In on their capital and
even tho most optimist military cri
tics here now admit that the situa
tion is extremely critical.
Advices from Uerliji today report
that the Danube army Is n trendy men -nclng
fortresses around Bucharest,
having reached the Argechu liver,
which Is only five miles from the
forts. The Gerniuns and Bulgarians
also have gained ground northwest of
the cnpital by working through the
passes southeast of Cnmpuliing. Still
anotner enemy force Is reported to
have broken through nnd defeated the
flr.it Rumanian army southwest of
Pitechtl. enabling It to capture gen
eral stuff officers.
It is generally believed - here that
Russian pressure on Von Fnlkenhayn'a
army through Transylvania has come
too lute to offset the rapid gains of
the Germans. The Russians lntest
success In capturing ji Rcrles of
heights sunt hof Klrlibuba gives them
HOI KINGDOM
NOT ON THE MAP
MIIMUlim LAN ill
LIBERTY ENLIGHTENS
WORLD ELECTRICALLY
NEW GOWN IS PUT ON
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
NEW YORK, Dec 2. IVesident
Wilson, speaking tonight at the ban
quet which was the culmination of the
celebration in honor of the permanent
illumination of the statue of liberty in
New York harbor, declared that he
had thought for the last two years
that "peace is going to come to the
world only with liberty."
"The peace of the world," Mr. Wil
son added, "is not going to be secured
by the comparts of nations, but by
the sympathies of men."
The president declared that the
l'nited States has a community of
ideas with France, whose people pres
ented Bartholin's statue to the United
States, because "one republic 'must
love another."
The president spoke of the signi
ficanse of the statue of liberty to the
immigrants. He said he wondered
whether the spirit typified by the
spirit of the statue is truly represented
here.
The president said he noticed that
the source of light for the statue
"comes from the outside."
"The onl light," he added, "that we
can contribute to the illumination of
the world In the light that shines out
of our lives. We must illustrate
liberty In our lives. With all due
resiwct for 'hose who represent na
tions not g.'Vemned as ourselves, I
don't think '.hat nations ruled by
small gTouj s of men can be success
ful." "The world." he declared, "Is en
lightened by ideas and ideals and The
sacrifices ot men ei.able the world to
go forward."
The president gave the wire'- s
flash, which bathed the Statue oi'
Liberty in light at six o'clock tonight
Bartholin's famous symbol of Ameri
can freedom, which has been for thirty
years a token of welcome by the
l'nited States to millions of immi
grants from every land, will I Illu
minated every nignt hereafter from
top to bottom. Funds to Ir.stall the
permanent lighting system for the
statue, the gift to the l'nited States
of 4nooi(i citizens of France, were
previded by public subscription
Grouped around the president on the
deck of the yacht. Mayflower, anch
ored of Bedloe's island, as he flashed
the signal which turned on the lights,
were Mrs. Wilson. Jules J. Jusserand,
Amtiatsador from France. Madam Jus
serand, High officials of the army and
nnvv and representatives of several
n nt inns.
'1 licht this statue," sai'l the presi
dent, "with the thought that it may
alwnvs stand as a symbol of our pur
GREEKS MAKE APPEAi
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 --A note de-
nounclng as "a serious infringement of i
sovereign rights," the allied demand
for surrender of Greek arms and am
munition to the anglo-French expe-1
dition at Salonikl, and pleading for the
sympathetic understanding of the
l'nited States In the "painful circtim-i
stances" surrounding the Greek gov-;
ernment and people, was delivered to '
the state department today by A.!
Vouros, charge of the Greek legation. :
The communication sets forth at';
length the efforts of Greece to main-:
tain neutrality and gives notice that
the Greek government "has Jejected
and will continue to reject this last
demand." No official explanation of
the causes which led the government j
to recede from that decision has
reached Washington, but trom the
strong language of the note, officials
infer that extreme pressure must have
been exerted before the amis und am
munition were given up.
During his visit to the state depart-,
ment. Charge Vouros talked over the
whole Greek situation with Counsellor
Polk, but neither had anything to say.
regarding the conference. It is under--stood
that communications similar to -those
atldressed to the l'nited States
have gone to all neutral governments.
and that tho step was intended pri
marily to create a proper understand
ing among neutral peoples of the dif
ficulties in which Greece has found
herself.
As presented by the charge, the
communication was in the form of a
copy of a note handed to American
minister Droppers at Athens on No
vember 2X and signed by acting for
eign minister Zalocoslas.
The communication to the state de
partment was in French. It said:
"From the beginning of the Kuro
pean war the Greek government, con
scious of Its duties for the defense of
an entering wedge into Tr.insylvai.'a
and proves a most encouraging coun
ter movement on the part of Itie
allies.
That the Russian forces, in con
Junction with Rumanians, are making
progress in Dolirudja is indicated by
the latest communications which re
port that the allies have regained
part of the Tohernnvada bridge, com
pelling the opposing forces to retira
southward from several hedghts.
GREGORY
NEW YORK, Dec. 2. Report from Texa that United State Attor
ney General Gregory plan to resign in tha near future, met with no
denial from member of President Wilson' adminittration here with
him today, but it wa reiterated that th president wa anxiout to have
Mr. Gregory a well a the other member of tha cabinet, remain in of
fice. It wa said that nothing waa known of Mr. Gregory' intentions.
John W. Davis, toocitor-general, i looked upon at the most like'y
succestor to Mr. Gregory, if he doe retign. In this event, it was said,
Mr. Gregory, who on' a previout oceation wa offered a seat on the United
States auprem court will be very terioutly considered by President Wil
ton if another vacancy occur on that bench.
pose to throw upon liberty, out of our
own life as a nation, a light which
shall reveal its dignity, its serene
power, its benigant hope and Bpirit
of guidance."
The great guns of a diversion of th
Atlantic fleet boomed a salute as the
statue flashed Into view, outlined in
white lights. The whistles of count
less harbor craft shrieked In union and
flares of red lights blazed along the
New York and New Jersey shores.
There was a Hash of flame high
above the statue and Ruth Law. in
her aeroplane, added a spectacular
touch to the ceremonies of illumina
tion. Shouting sparks and fire from
the tail of her machine she circled
the lower end of Manhattan island.
A roar of cheers from the thousands
gathered in Battery park greeted her
as the letters "L-I-B-E-R-T-Y" out-,
lined in electric lights were revealed
on the bottom of the airplane.
The course of the Mayflower was
marked by the rays of the most
powerful searchlight in the world as
the yacht's anchor was hoisted and
the presidential party headed for the
battery to disembark for the motor
car parade which preceded a dinner in
honor of Mr. Wilson and Ambassador
Jusserand.
The party on the Mayflower looked
out unon a city of lights. .New York's
billion, dollar skyline was literally
ablaze. Electric - lamps gleamed
through countless windows in scores
of "skv scraptr?." A Bearchlight play
ed upon a proudly floating flag atop
the Whitehall building, almost at th
tip end of Manhattan, and Golden
lights gleamed along the sea wall of
the battery haven of immigrants.
Close behind the Mayflower steamf d
the lT. S. S., San Francisco, with
secretary of the Navy Tanie!s aboard,
followed by the U. S. S. Yank town,
carrying members of Mayor Mitchell's
committee of 200 and other invited
guests. The passengers were di:--charg-.-d
at the battery where electric
motor curs were waiting to carry
the mup town. '
The nar.ide passed into the canon
of lower Broadway, across the plaza
of city hall park, where the stars nd
striies, outlined in red white and blue
electric liuhts. gleamed on the front
of the city hall and on through
Washington square into Fifth avenue.
The avenue had been converted into a
"golden way."
Long ribbons of specially erected
lights gl"amed on either side of the
thoroughfare as far north as Thirty
third stree. There the president and
his party entered the hotel where the
banquet was held under an electric
lighted can qu of red, white and blue.
the national interests, and of ils re
sponsibilities toward the country, had
come to the decision that Greece ought
not to enter the bloody struggle in
which almost all Europe was engaged.
The Greek government, in holding ;o
neutrality, had in mind all the tune
the abandonment of this policy if at
any given moment it should come to
the conviction that, however great
were the sacrifices and the dangers of
a war, it would serve the national as
pirations. "Cnfortunately it has not been pos
sible for us, up to this moment, to
obtain the necessary guarantees that
Greece, in entering into the F.uro;.ean
conflict would not lie going to inevi
table) destruction.
"In remaining neutral, the Greek
government had In mind solely Greek
interests, and not sympathy with one
of the two groups of belligerents. The
geographical situation of Greece
makes the application of its policy of
neutrality very difficult: it is for that
reason that she has been forced to
submit to the occupation by foreign
arms of her Macedonian provinces and
to permit the belligerents to dispose
of her ports, public houses and works
of art; that her highways and rail
roads have been taken and tunnels
worth many millions have been com
pletely destroyed.
"At tho moment when the present
government assumed power, an impos
ing fleet was blockading the entrance
of the strait of Salamine, the anchor
age of the Greek fleet, and in spite of
our protests and our formal refusal we
were constrained to order our officers
and sailor to abandon the vessels of
the light fleet In order to spare them
the grief of surrendering the vessels
upon which not very long ago they
had contributed to two victorious
wars.
"For about a month the Greek' peo
ple have seen with a very real pain,
tho administration of foreign control
of nearly all Its public services .its
land communications, its iwstal ser
vice, telegraph and telephones service.
The Greek commercial fleet has seen
its activities hampered by repeated In
spection and by restrictions of every
sort. For a long time Greece has 1-een
able to Import from abroad only what
is absolutely indispensible to feed and
sustain the country anil to furnish for
Its commerce, both by land and sea,
the necessary fuel.
"And now the traditional hospital
ity of the Greek people has suffered
an affront which has been profoundly
painful. The will of the strong hs
been constantly placed In opposition to
the legitimate orotests of Greeco. Nev
ertheless the latter has, up to now,
endured everything with the patience
and dignity which small nations pos
sess In the highest degree. But the
last demand of the admiral command
ing the naval forces of the entente in
(Continued on Tnge Two)
MAY RESIGN
