ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
I .SKVDXTH YKAK.
,.illTV.
Twelve Pages
Albuquerque Morning Journal, Sunday, December 3, 1916.
Twelve Pages
WAR INTEREST
CENTERS UNO
T
SOUTHEASTERN
E
UROPEAN FRONTS
King Constantine Yields to
Demands of Allies After
French Force Lands in Ath
ens and Fight Occurs,
FURIOUS BATTLES
RAGE NEAR BUCHAREST
Russians Make Desperate Ef
fort to Relieve Pressure on
Rumania's Sorely Menaced
Capital,
tV MORNINU JOURNAL RPCCIAL LCAStD WIII
Athens, whore after a Jay of panic
and fighting in the streets und on the
hillside, Kintr Constantino acceded
to the demand of the entente com
mander und offered to surrender the
artillery demanded by the French vice
admiral, shares with the Teutonic
concentration upon Bucharest and the
Russian drive in the wooded Carpa
thians' a center of war Interest.
The series of engagements marking:
the advance of the Teutonic troops
upon Bucharest ure developing into
a great battle. From Berlin conies
th announcement that the first Ru
manian army, which had offered
of Dorna Watra nnd in the Trot us and
Oitos valleys. The attacks were un
successful, the enemy suffering heavy
losses, (ierman troops during an ad
vance at one point In the wooded C'ar
.pnthlans took more than 1,000 prison
ers. "Front of Field Marshal von Mac
kensen The engagements in Walla
chia nre developing into a greut bat
tle. The- army which left the moun
tains southeast of Campulting hus
gained ground in the wooded foun
tains on both sides of the DumbrnvlUa
sector during engagemerifs.
"On the Argechu. southeast of Pe-
techti, the first Rumanian armv
which offered battle has been broken
through and defeated, after a tena
cious struggle, by German and Aus-tro-Hungarian
troops. Already l'ava
rinn reserve regiment No. 18, which
has frequently distinguished Itself,
has pushed ahead to the division staff
headquarters where from imprisoned
officers of the general staff were
taken, orders proving that in the po
sition through which we had broken
the first army should huve fought to
the last man. The commander of the
army, apparently aware of the pool
morale of his troops, ifdded to an ex
alted order the Latin expression that
he expected them to "withstand und
flKht to the death against the cruel
barbarians."
"The menace of death was net-forth,
immediately to be executed, upon
cowards In his army.
"Farther down, to near the Dun
u be, wo have fought our way to the
Argechu.
"The number of prisoners taken on
December 1, as far as it Is possible to
enumerate them at present, was fifty
one officers rind 6,115 of the rank and
file, and the booty, forty-nine cannon
and 100 loaders, ammunition curts
In addition to many hundred other
military vehicles.
"In Dobrudju., Bulgarian troops,
repulsed strong attacks by the Russians."
Dally ly Carrier or Mall,70
Month, single (Vple, M
OPPOSITION TO
CARRANZAGRQWS
STRONGER; VILLA
CAUSES CONCERN
TRI TONS TXMN(J IN ON
IH (111 ARKST RAPIDLY
Washington Doesn't Know
What to Do With Bandit,
Should He Hold Chihuahua
nad Capture Juarez,
FELIX DIAZ REPORTED
GAINING IN STRENGTH
Revolutionists Between Mex
ico City and Vera Cruz Are
Menacing Railroads; First
Chief Wants Ammunition,
ISV MORNINO JOURNAL SPECIAL LBAfltO WIMl
Washington, Hoc. 2. While they
Wait for General Carranza to accept;
or reject the protocol signed by the j
joint commission at Atlantic City, ud-j
ministration officials ure giving much ;
attention to every report relating to '
the activities of Villa and to rebel;
i
CABINET CRISI
S
BELIEVED SURE;
ENGLAND 'MUST
RAVE EFFICIENCY
Rumor Is Current but Not
Generally Credited, That As
quith Will Give Way to
Lloyd-George,
WAR COUNCIL FAR
TOO BIG TO SUCCEED
Twenty-three, as at Present,
Likely to Be Reduced to
Five in Number; Criticism
Is General,
(V MORNINO JOURNAL IPICIAL LIQf O Wl
I,ondon, Dec. 2. The political cri
sis, which is the sensation of the
hour, is generally believed to mean
the future control of all war meas
ures, both military and economic, by
a cabinet directorate of five, advised
by Ceil. Kir William it. Robertson,
chief of the imperial staff, and Ad-
CARRANCISTAS
CLAIM VICTORY
OVER VILLA IN
0L00D
! BATTLE
west of the city wiih a cavalry escort
and making a complete stiivey of
(lie defeiisi s, which were prepared by
General Tivviiiu ti) oppose Villa's en
try but ale now believed to lie held
by the Villa forces, according to this
same source.
'I'rcvliio Joins Murguia.
General Trevino. it was said, bus
effected a Junction Willi (ieneral Mur
gul.i Hi ar llot-cisllas, twenty-five
miles south of Chihuahua City. lie
was said ly n fug,.,- arriving here to
.have left Chihuahua City with about
Min of his command, going south
" hen the Villa forces entered the cltv
Monday. The telegraph line and rnll'
load south of llorcasltas lias been re
pair'
Generals Murguia and Trcvino
Join Forces and Are Re
ported Attacking Chihuahua
on South Side,
c'.i. foicos, it was
made possible a
of the situation
City, and has
.spirits of the
BANDIT EXPECTED TO
GET AWAY WITH LOOT
Trains Are Said to Be Carry
ing Away Supplies to Strong
holds of Peon Outlaw in
Western Direction,
London, Dec. 2. Although the Ru
manians apparently are offering des
perate resistance west and south of
Bucharest, the enemy forces are rap- iture of Chihuahua City
but- leg h(.i-e now admit that the situation
tie on the Argechu river southeast of , extremely critical.
Advices from Berlin today report
movements in oilier parts of Mexico. , miral Sir John R. Jellieoe, first sea
Additional Information reaching the i lord,
state and war departments today tend- . The. question of the resignation of
ed to confirm the story of ilia's cap- I I remier Asquith to give place for Da
nu repite.1 tiv ' Vol IjIOV u m S e VI I c or MO, lew i.uiuii-
ldly closing In on their capital, and refugees ut the border, but none of the
even the most optlmistc militury crlt
. I.i.i. In, iimw. nw.i'lnn rw.t'l h .I'll I'd In 11 I '' .
had a long audi
Law, also Is discussed, but that Ml'
I dispatches indicated that the bandit ! Asquith will resign appears improua
I lender vvmu ninvliip norl h wn I'd to lit-' "I, .
,'tack Juarez.
Piterhti. northwest of the Rumanian
capital, hus been defeated after a te
nacious struggle. Whether this Indi
cates the turning of the right wing
of the Rumanian armies is not clear.
The capture of more than 6,000
Kumuniun troops is announced.
Resistance Stiffens.
The attueks upon the Rumanian
troops on the roads from Pitechti to
Bucharest compelled only a slight re
tirement of the defenders, according
to the Russian announcement.
The Rumanian resistance south of
Bucharest has stiffened, and Tzomana
and Uostinarl have been recaptured
from the invading forces.
The Kusslans have regained pos
session of the western part of Tcher
nimda bridge across the lonube. A
fierce buttle continues In the wooded
Carpathians und along the Bukowina
and Moldavian frontiers. The at
tempt of the Russian and Rumanian
forces to break through into Transyl
vania is nowhere diminished in vio
lence. The Russians have obtained a
footing in Klrlibaba and street fight
ing is in progress, according to a Reu
ter telegram from Petrogrud.
Operations of lesser importance are
reported from the Macedonian front,
Wide artillery actions have taken
P'ace along the British front in
France.
About 2110 Killed in Athens.
The casualties resulting from the
clash of entente allied und Creek
troops in Athens are not officially an
nounced, but have been estimated as
high as 200. An employe of the Brit
ish legation is said to have been
wounded fatally.
The fighting began as soon as the
entente troops were landed to enforce
the demand for a surrender of the
Greek munitions. Two thousand
French marines exchanged shots with
the Creek reservists and there was an
engagement between Boldiers in the
annex of the British legation and a
Greek force in the square in front of
that building. The French legation
w.ig fired upon. The allied fleet fired
on the hills back of the king's palace
and two Bhells are reported to have
fallen near the center of the city.
Thousands of the residents of Athens
took refuge on Attica plain and at
Phaleron.
After the Dutch and Spanish min
isters intervened and Vice Admiral
du Fournet had sent a suggestion of
an armistice to Premier Lambros, the
king consented to surrender the guns.
The entente force, with the exception
ol a guard of 300 were withdrawn.
Admiral du Fournet assured the
Greek commander that the allied
troops had no orders to fire upon the egg
n .... . .
",eeKH, and tne ureeK general
P'led in a similar vein.
that the Danube army is already
menacing fortresses around Buchar
est, having reached the Argechu river,
which Is only five miles from the
forts. The Germans and Bulgarians
also have gained ground northwest of
the capital by working through the
passes southeast of Campulung. Still
another enemy force Is reported to
have broken through and defeated
the first Rumanian army southwest
of Pitechti, enabling it to capture
general staff officers.
It la generally believed here that
Russian pressure on von Fulken-
May Cuiisc F.mhaiTiissinont.
Officials are frank in their admis
sions that the renewed strength of
The premier had a long audience
with the king today, which furnished
a 1 asfs for the afternoon papers to
predict bis resignation. He said he
! Villa mav prove an embarrassing fae-i wouiu consuic won u.e s,g ui mui
I tor, in view of the probably rcsump- ter of course, over any Important gov
ition of conferences of the joint com- crnnlcnt changes.
! mission that drafted the protocol pro-i Var Council n I allure.
Ividing for conditional withdrawal ori A war council was termed in the
! General Pershing's troop. It Is real-1 council last year, but the minimum
jized that a successful attack on Gen-j number of five, which Mr. Asquith
leral Murguia, now advancing from the -then announced has been exceeded.
south, might lead to uncontested con-i nnd the popular Impression is that the
itrol of Villa of Chihuahua City and; council has been, largely a failure be
I other towns of the state, and present cause its decisions were subject to do
a most embarrassing situation for thel'te and ratification by I he full cabt-
il'nltu.l Mlntes, . I" l
hayn'a army through Transylvania 1
has come too late to offset the rapid j Indicate that General
pains of the Germans. The Russians make every effort to
Munv i,.m..i.i ruin. ine lorecast or tne new war eouu-
AI1 reports received here, however, cil Premier Asquith, David Mnyd-
Murgtlla Will j 11 ol e, jmiihi'w eutiiti wi , i.i uiui
reciiiiture Chi-1 J. Balfour ami Sir I'Jdward Carson
l.-ne.Mt suce in fcsntiirinn- a series of I himhua Oltv and the opinion of armv "H Mauds, lrt.it cMohts life expressed
heigts south of Klrlibaba gives them officials is that he should have little j whether Kir Kdward Carson, who le
an entering wedge into Transvlvania ; difficulty in doing so. It is ussumed j signed from the cabinet a year ugo
and proves a most encouraging coun-jthut Villa's supply of ammunition because he was dissatisfied , with the
ter move on the part of the ullies. imust have been materially reduced by ! government s policy n, the Balkans,
That the Russian forces, in con- M five days of fighting against Gen-! when Serbia was be ng hard pressed
erat Trevino, anu it is regarne,! aa i -Jw.m. , ... ......
logical ami- in line with Villa's tactics ' government have recently risen 1o the
that he will evacuate Chihuahua after Wines, tide attained since the begin
ning of the war. Although tne news
papers have attacked the government
and individual ministers, whenever It
erable portion of Trcvino's force join- "as thought affairs were going wrong,
ed Villa after the Chihuahua battle. there has been no press censorship
Felix Diaz Active. jwmiievcr on loiiueai uimcunmdii, nun
Villa', success in the north has i the papers deal with the adininistru-
tV MORNINO JOURNAL PCriAt. LKAtfO WIRll
Juarez, Mexico, Dec. 2. An official
dispatch from Mexico Clly saying that
General Murguia bad defeated Villa
troops that tiled yesterday to block
his advance and was moving on Chi
huahua today, received conf irmiUhm
I hero In a report by direct line from
Sauz to the effect that Murguia and
Trcvino had already Joined forces and
were attacking the city on the south
side today.
General Murguia and his division
hail puzzled the Curranza authorities
here for somo days, and even started
a rumor that he had withdrawn to
Torreon. It Is now officially said that
his slow progress north from his base
at Ksculon, about 1SB miles south of
Chihuahua, was duo to the effective
wrecking of the Mexican Central track
by Villa.
General Ozunu Is reported to be
stationed to the north of Chihuahua
City with a strong government force.
No details of the fighting have been
received, however. But u high officer
here said he would not be surprised
to get news ut. any time that Villa bad
evacuated. As trains, supposed to lie
filled with loot, were seen leaving
Chihuahua west over the line of the
Mexico Northwestern several days ugo,
he said, he assumed that Villa would
take that direction.
No Villa bunds have been reported
north of Sauz, which Is twenty-five
miles north from chlhuahuu. City.
Junction with Rumanians, are mak
ing progress in Dobrudju, is Indicated
liv fhA liltnv:. rnniinniiiniitifinu which
report that the allies have regained I havlnt? remov ed to the hills such sup
part of the Tchernavoda bridge, com- ' I,lie as he can secure, lhe depar -,nw
,h n,.nnir fn. ita "i""' reports indicate that a conmd-
...... .... t' ..n Vff iii'v ..... i ;
southward from several heights
oakhanza 1ikaks op
ai.i.i:gi i yictouy
PRICE OF FOODSTUFFS
MUST BE LOWERED
! prompted officials to study with more
! anxiety movements in other parts of
jtbe country. 'The operations of Gen
icral Felix Diaz In the extreme south
New York, Dec. 2. A declaration of, of Mexico have been extended some
war on the butter and egg mercantile i what and information has reached
exchanges was made today by John : here that ho und his agents have made
J. Dillon, state commissioner of foods earnest efforts to secure the co-opera
rV MORNINO JOURNAL SPECIAL LSABVD WIRE
and markets, in his efforts to cut the
high cost of foods. The trading on
somo of the food exchanges here, he
declared, is done merely among the
members, not with outsiders and less
tlon of the Villa and other rebel lend
ers who have been conducting Inde
pendent operations.
Between Mexico City and Vera Cruz
official dispatches say only inter-
than twelve men make food prices for rupted railroad traffic exists, the Mex
the entire country. jican railway having been repeatedly
Mr. Dillon said he would try to elos cut In the hist two weeks. At one
these exc hanges by obtaining legisla-! time that line was broken at more
tion opening them to the public, an-j than ten places. Farther north, In
nuling their charters, or by establish- . the oil producing region, Manuel Pil
ing terminal markets to put them out : laez, who has held a considerable ter
of business. jrltory for more than a year, has in-
Mr. Dillon also announced that he ; creased his prestige and, according to
will fight the svstem under which official information, is negotiating
dealers give premiums to obtain food , with Diaz for Joint action. Between
products from producers. He added Tampleo and San Luis Potosl the
that he would shin several carloads Cedillo brothers are reported to have
of eggs each week from producers to adopted more active methods In pre
retail dealers, eliminating the middle-! venting the operation of railroads over
men. Mr. Dillon is selling cold stor-i which is moved much of the oil need
age eggs at 35 cents a dozen, he said, led by Carran.a for the future opera
nt e price of cold storage eggs was' tion of his trains.
cut bv retailers today to 37 cents a I i arnm.a Mams .wnmiiitiiioii.
dozen, a reduction of 2 to 3 cents aj
ro-
BWtUX I1FPOIITS GAINS
OYKIt TIIK ROMANIANS
Berlin. Dec. 2 (by Wireless to Pay
"") The situation in Rumanian
J-pntinues to develop favorably for the
Teutonic forces, according to this
(vening's announcement from the war
office.
The effect intended by the Russians
n their attacks In the Carpathians
not been achieved, it Is declared,
ln assaults on the Teutonic lines
Provin? fruitless.
. 'It is officially reported that npth-
important has occurred on either
' western or the eastern front.
In the Carpathians renewed nd
Jnres in an effort to relieve other
nontf, were again without success.
The situation in Rumania is de
ling in our favor.
Virtriwest of MonastH (Macedon
mi. ihFri hn been violent ar-
.. "'J- nre. A Dulenrian advance
there
repulsed the enemy."
,i"e text of the statement follows:
"oni of Archduke Joseph Rus
wnV? V,lmnnlan attacks in the
noun. , arpH,nian nn1 alonS the
Uer v f the Transylvanian fron
PeeJu?ter(iav thpv wcre directed
BarliVfi "R'linst our position on the
""'idova and Gurarucada and west
L
THE WEATHER
' ' . 1 '!(. ' L' .. .. .
boycott is spreading rapidly
throughout this state, according to in
formation received today.
NO
CARRANCISTAS ,.;
CLOSE TO AMERICANS
The increased operations of the dif
ferent rebel bands has been made) the
basis of official efforts by Mexicans
to have lifted the embargo on am
munition, and It is regarded almost
as a certainty that tne discussion or
that phase of the situation will be
taken up at the adjourned session of
! the joint commission.
I The reports received here regarding
! mornino journal ipicial LiAto wii (the fate of foreigners at Chihuahua
Field Hcadqquartcrs Punitive Kxpe-! are conflicting. One' dispatch for
dition in Mexico, Dec. 2 (by radio to warded by General Bell said several
Columbus, N. M.) Col. Gonzales Diaz Chinese had lost their lives, but a con
with about 125 men entrained tonight i sular message contained another refu
at Casas Grandes for Juarez. This 1 gee's story that only two foreigners,
force composed the garrison at El ! both Chinese, had been killed, and
Valle, a town near the southermost ; that Villa had given orders that there
camp of the punitive expedition and , should be no looting. There were
its withdrawal leaves this section of about 150 foreigners in Chihuahua at
Chihuahua without Carranza soldiers, j the time of the fight, according to
The Carranza leader, whose march j state department estimates, and the
from El Valle to Casas Grandes was; stories brought to the border indicate
part way in the company of an Amer-.that General Trevino evacuated the
lean wagon train, spoke of the cor-1 city without advising the foreign con.
riinl relations existing between his sular representatives.
men nnd the American soldiers during It was believed tonight
tlon and public men us freely In war
times us the American papers do in
the heat of a presidential campaign.
Government Inefficient.
While the Northcliffe press anil the
Morning Post have made the fiercest
assaults, even such careful-speaking
Journals us the Daily Chronicle, the
Westminster (iazette and the Man
Chester Guardian recently have been
critical. The trend of discontent has
been partly Against the government
system, partly against-certain mem
bers of the cabinet. Slowness In
reaching decisions and Inaction, Is the
gist of the indictment. The principal
counts of this are the man-power and
food questions, whllo recently dissat
isfaction with what some considered
a wnnt of vigor in the management of
the navy and weakness In the foreign
office, has been Increasingly ex
pressed. The appointment of1 a food dictator
was announced more than u fortnight
ago, but none has been appointed yet.
This is one complaint. The unwielill
ness of a cabinet of twenty-three for
managing a great war is a point on
which the critics seem unanimous. As
ft counter-balance to critics, there Is
a widespread and weighty, but less
local sentiment. Hint they fail to cred
it the administration with the great
work it has accomplished in the rnltl
ffiry and financial fields within two
years.
tjueretiiro, Mexico, Dec. 2. Gen.
Francisco Murguia reported to Gen
eral Carinnza today that he had rout
ed a band of Villa followers, number
ing 2,500 men, and hud pursued them
about twelve miles toward Chihuahua
City. The general reported that lie
was continuing his advance toward
Chihuahua City today.
I by- the Canal
said here. This has
report to the border
south of Chihuahua
caused a rise In the
Carr.mza officers of the gairison hen
General lizuna, with his cavalry
column, was operating; near Cuilty,
the first station north of Chihuahua
City, last night, It was staled here.
He has a large number of the troops
from chihuahua City garrison In his
command in a. billion to his own cav
alry. official reports were given out last
night to the effect that Villa was
loading trains with loot at the Mex
ico Not t h western railroad station,
preparatory to sending his stolen
property to iho mountains of western
'hlhuahUM.
ilia May l ollou.
Villa was expected tu follow these
ti.iins with Ins troops, Carranza olii
cluls here said. The liiindil comman
der was nol expected to bold Chihua
hua Clly when he captured it, It wan
said here. The prestige of Ills cap
ture of the city would give him among
i bis ow n people, tog el her w II h t he tool,
iinimunit ion, artillery und small iii uim,
were all he desired, according to of
ficials here. Bather than remain and
defend the city against Mulgula's su
perior forces, Villa was expected to
Jeave for the mountains as be did at
Santa Rosalia, Jimenez und Parral.
This move, a Carranza staff officer
declared, would compel the de facto
forces to carry Iho fight to him In
the mountains, where Villa and his
men would be In their own element
as guerrilla fjghters, the officer lid
ded. A report that Villa and his com
mand would move to (Ijinaiiii, oppo
site Presidio, Tex., was received at
'military headquarters here today from
unolfViul sources.
Neither Villa nor liny of his lead
ers are expected to move on Juarez
with a force of bandits because of the
fart that General Pershing's troops
could move In behind them, from Co
lonla Dubbin, and becausi) of General
i iz ii na's column at Sauz, und General
Gonzales' complete brigade here and
at Villa Ahiimada.
German Consul Max Weber today
officially denied a. report 111 circula
tion here and in Kl I'aso that three
German subjects hud been killed by
Y-illa bandits in Chihuahua City. He
said he had Interviewed many refu
gees who had como from the capital
Hinee Villa entered thel town and said
they knew nothing about the shooting
of German residents or any other for-
i elgn. rs except Chinese.
. General Gonmilcs announced today
j Col, Gonzales Diaz was expected to
arrive from Casus Grandes tonight
i wild 200 Cnrrnuza troops to Join the
'Juarez garrison, and Col. Ricardo Cor
tinns would come from the Guerrero
district with N oil men, General Gon
zales said.
He also reported the arilval, of ISO
men from the vicinity of Guzman to
day, all to he incorporated into the
Juarez brigade of which General Gon
zales is commander.
P TO I
E
10 WOULD 01
WITH DIBIT.
SAYS PRESIDENT
Chief Executive Delivers No
table Address at Banquet
in Honor of Relighting
Statue of Liberty,
SMALL GROUPS OF MEN '
NOT FIT TO GOVERN
Poincaic Sends Message of
Felicitation; Wilson Pays
Hii;li Compliment to French
Republic as Sister Natiorii
ItATTI.I
1 LASTS SIX
hoi its, oiticr.Gox iifaks;
WASHINGTON- NOT AI.MIMI II
bv camti:!: of ciinn aim
El Paso, Tex., Dec. 2. A message Washington, Dec. 2. Two over
received from General Obregon at ' night dispatches from Brigadier Gen
Mexico Cltv late today gave details of eral Bell at Kl Paso, containing the
that by
Mnndav word might be received of
'the decision of Ciirranza regarding the
I Atlantic City protocol. Albert J. Paul,
j the Mexican commissioner who car-
rleil the document to Queretaro, was
jin Mexico City today, but it is known
that he placed the signed copy in the
'hands of General Carranza before
leaving yueretaro.
LIvestiM k Moving Again.
Kansas City, Dec. 2. With the re
ceipt today from Washington of an
order lifting the embargo on ship-
xicii
oolr
unoay and
t portion.
Monday
New
fair,
rofnTIIER REPORT.
' t vmyf?ur hour. nn ftt
in'mumUm,.temperature. 5 degrees
lD.m YV ran- 8': temperatur.
m.. S3
the past six months.
A rumor that Guzman had been oc
cupied by American cavalry was de
nied today at army headquarters.
congressman" VISITS
GENERAL PERSHING
tT MORNINO JOURNAL tMCIAt LIAIIO WIRI'
Field Headquarters Punitive Expe
dition in Mexico, Dec. 2 (via radio to
rviiiimhim v M 1 A first hand study
nf nnnHiti'nna conf rnntinir the regular merits of livestock from Kansas City
armv in relation to their effect on re- stock yards, loc al shipping conditions j
rrnifimr ia the mirnose of a visit to have begun to resume tneir normal
b nnnitivn exnedition bv Congress- aspect after a cessation of ten
man James Gardner of Massachusetts,
DIET SQUAD MEMBERS
ALL WELL AND HAPPY
V MORNINO JOURNAL SPBCIAL LKASID WIRII
Chicago. Dec. 2. Members of the
diet squad, whose two weeks' test of
the theory that 40 cents a day Is
enough to feed a person well In Chi
cago. will end Tuesday night, are ap
proaching the completion of their ex
pertinent in excellent physical condi
tion, slightly heavier than when the
dieting began and wtth all signs of
Indigestion und distresses of the stom
ach missing.
The diet, while planned to be with
in the 40-ccnt limit, also has been
arranged to supply all the elements
needed for properly balanced meals.
Tomorrow's meals:
Breakfast: Grapefruit, griddle
cukes, syrup, coffee.
Dinner: Consomme with rice, leg
of lamb, candied sweet potatoes,
(.reamed cauliflower, mock plum pud
ding, bard sauce.
Supper: LyonnalHC potatoes, cold
meat, cocoa, sugar cookies.
JUDGE COOPER DIES
AFTER LONG ILLNESS
before leaving for the border today, i to be the foot and moutn oisease. oui
Mr. Gardner expressed admiration for which diagnosis showed to be stom
h. v i nhieh th regulars have I atitls. a comparatively mild malady.
overcome the hardships confronting
TIT MORNINO JOURNAL VFCCIAL I CUD WNf
Tucson. Ail.., Dev. 2. Judge Wll-
days, jliam F. Cooper, of the puna county
due to an Infection believed for a time (superior court, died here today follow-
temoerature
southwest wind; clear, ami men.
them. During his visit to the border
and in Mexico he had picked up much
material, he said, for his proposed
campaign to make the army a more
attractive profession to both officers
Cattle now are being allowed to lie
shipped from the yards after they
have been disinfected. Animals show
ing a long period of Illness. Coming
to Arizona twenty years ago, he was
successively a miner, printer, cowboy,
newspaper editor and publisher, law
yer und Jurist. As n matter of senti
ment he retained his membership in
battle between General Murguia s
tones und the Villa troops iiboilt
thirty miles south of Chihuahua City.
The battle took place yesterday, start
ing at 10 o'clock in the morning, und
lasting six bonis. The Villa men, tic;
message suld, were defeated.
The message said the liundlt force
fled in disorder, some toward Sani.i
Ysabel and others toward Chihuahua
Cltv. The Carranza troops pursued
them four hours, the message said,
capturing three machine guns, many
rifles and some horses.
Many prisoners were taken, the
message said, lidding that they were
executed. The dispatch said Villa's
losses were heavy.
Col. Cnndolurlo Garcia und several
other officers were wounded, the mes
sage stutect. I lie dispatch declared
Villa iiad 3,r,00 men.
General Obregon's message, which
was received by way of Eagle Pass.
Tex., contained Ibis account of the
fight, from General Murgulii, sent
from his camp on December 2:
"My' advance guards came Into con
tact with Hiokc of the bandit Villa.it
10 o'clock today, und niter a fight of
six Hours cluraiion, tne enemy, com
pletely disorganized, fled In disorder,
part beading lor Santa Isabel and
others for Chihuahua. Our pursuit
Was followed for twelve miles over
the mountains. We captured three
machine guns and a large quantity of
armament and i,iny saddle,! cavalry
horses, besides a large number ol
prisoners, who were executed on the
spot.
"The losses of the enemy ure heavy,
but no account could bo made of
them, as we have bit. the field. I
regret to state that "l. Candclurio
Garcia was killed in action, and oth
er officers were wounded. The names
and details I shall send later, together
wilh the losses In the ranks.
"Tho action was entirely over by 4
o'clock In the afternoon.
"The enemy numbered, uccording
to prisoners, 2,r00 men, who left Chi
huahua yesterday with the purpose of
intercepting our advance;.
"After reorganizing my forces, 1 am
continuing my advance to Chihuahua,
expecting to arrive at. an early hour
tomorrow.
"Ml'UCCIA."
i-:xi'M?
TO KIICAITI Iti:
city or cinin Ain a
inir the mouth lesions of stomatitis are' the loral typographical union up to
hping kept here until cured. First the time of his death. He was related
shipments to Kansas points left toduy. by collateral descent to James Fenrti
Btock yards are being disinfected nicne Cooper, tho American j""n'r
Junrez, Mi x., Dec. 2. With Gcneial
Mulgula's newly arrived column at
tacking from the tauitli, u new battle
is developing at Chihuahua City, Gen
eral Gonzales announced at head
quarters here ftt noon today. General
O.una is at Cuilty, a few miles north
of the city, bu added, to cut off any
Villa movements in that direction.
This led him to believe, the general
explained, that Villa might evacuato
the west over the Mexico North
western railway, following the loot he
Is reported to have sent out by train
the past few days.
Gen. Francisco Murguia Is reported
to have mode a reconnoiter of the
Villa positions In the suburbs of the
cltv yevterdav. rbljnc to the east and
first Inlorniatlon to reach the war
department from nrmy border offi
cials concerning Villa's victorious nt
laeli on Chihuahua City, were re
ceived today. After a careful study
of the repoits, It was stated aiithorlla
i lively that the Information contained
nothing that could be construed us an
Increased menace to the American
border or that threatened the safety
of Juarez.
The reports were based entirely
upon infi'i iimllou obtained by General
Bell from refugees reaching El Paso
from Chihuahua City. Both agreed
that the fighting In the city had been
desperate, with the strategic juiiuls
having been captured by the Villa
forces and retaken by the de facto
hoops several times from tho begin
ning of the battle Thursday morning,
until Monday.
General Trcvino, lhe Carranzn com
mander at Chihuahua City, was said
to have had about i.o t o soldiers,
"hile Iho strength of the Villa forces
was estimated ut from 2,500 lo 3,1100
men. General Trevino was reported
to have retreated soulh with a rem
nant of his command, but officials
said It was their opinion that be re
mained within a short dialance of
Chihuahua City awaiting reinforce
ments under General Murguia, after
which be would return and attempt to
rclu Ice t he city
The refugees said Villa began the
Attack Thursday morning and with
drew tlint night only to resume It
again Friday. The battle continued
idesperalclv throughout the day and
culminated by Villa's forces penetrat
ing Into the center of the city
street, fighting was general.
withdrew that night, taking Trcvino's
artillery, which tbev had captured at
Santa Itosa hill. Salurdav tbev re
entered the city nnd fighting contin
ued until Monday.
; Oho of the refugees said the at
! lack was opened from three direc
tions, the first from the waterworks,
, the second from Coronel bill, nnd the
third from the roundhouse, north of
; the city.
j The most desperate fighting was
said to have been around the penitcn
tl.irv. which was taken and retaken
i by the bandits several times before
jtfiev oucceeili'd In getting complete
posessiou.
; None of the refugees interviewed by
'General Bell was able f Identify
I V ilia among the bandits,
j The MeXicar embassy h"re slid was
! without information today concern
ling the final outcome of the Chlhun
i hua i "It y engagement,
j A mbasMaibu-de.signate Arredondo,
I however, admitted that there np
; peine, little doubt but that the Cnr
ranzi forces had been driven front the
ic.tv, which had fallen Into bandits'
i hands.
l our MrVchunt VesM-ls Sunk.
1,riln, Dec. 2. The French brig
untlne Indium,, the Swedish steamer
Douglas, the French schooner St. Jo
seph and the Japanese steamer Naga
ta Maru, are reported by Lloyds to
have been fcunk. No fatalities are
?Ml'fl!url .. -
tmi MURNINO JOURNAL RPKCIAL LI Aff 0 MMRl!
New York, De 2. President Wil
son, speaking tonight at tho banquet
which was the culmination of the cel
ebration In honor of tho permanent
illumination of the Statue of Liberty
In New York harbor, declared that the
had thought for the last two years
tha peace Is going to come to tho'
world only with liberty."
"The peace it the world," Mr. Wil
son udded, "Is not going to be secured
by the compacts of nations, but by
lhe sympathies of men."
The president declared that the
l ulled States has a community of
Ideas with France, whose people pre
sented Bartholin's statue to the Unit
ed Stales, because "one republic must
love anot her."
The president spoke of the signifi
cance of the- Stutue of Liberty to the
immigrants. He said ho wondered
whether the spirit typified by th
spirit of the statue is truly represent
ed here.
Source of l.iulit Outside.
The president said he noticed that
I hi, source of light for the statue
"eumes from the outside."
"The only light," lie added, "that
we can contribute to Hie lilurnlcation
of the world Is the light tht shines
out of our lives. . V. e mutt Illustrate
liberty In bur lives. "Wm.Ii il iliut i e
snect for ttioso who repic ;,!,' lotions
foot governed h ours, X don't tfVi'W"
l.tlit. llM.limu nil...l lie Mm,!! irrmiii ttt
men can be successful."
"The world," he declared, "Is en
lightened by Ideas und Ideals and the
siii'rificcH of men enable the world to
go forward."
The president said In part:
"I would certainly bo lacking- In
feeling If I did not express some of
the things that have come Into my
thought as I have taken part In these
ceremonies. There nro ninny moving
circumstances connected with this
day, connected with the things It re
calls, connected with the things It
suggests.
Proper Symbol of Life,
"I was reflecting, as wo saw the
light stream upon that, bcuutlful stat
ue, that Its source was outside the
stutue, that It did not proceed from
Liberty, but proceeded from tho light
yvo were throwing upon liberty, and
It occurred to me that after all. It
was a proper symbol of our life, bo
eiiuse wo can tuke to ourselves the dig
nity of liberty only as we Illustrate the
fact and the true spirit of liberty and
the only light that we can contribute,
to the Illumination of (he world, Is tha
light (hat will shine out of our life
as a nation upon that conception nnd
upon that Image.
"There Is a great responsibility In
having adopted liberty as our Ideal,
because we must Illustrate It In what
we do, I was struck by the closing
phrase of Mr. Pulitzer's admirable llt-
4le speech. He said that there would
come a day when It was perceived
that the Goddess of Liberty will also
be the Goddess of Peace, and through
out the lust two yearn, there has
come more and more Into my heart
the conviction that peuco Is going to,
come to lhe world only with liberty.
"With all dun and sincere respect
for those who represent other forms
uf governments than ours, perhaps I
may be permitted to say that peaco
cannot come so long us the destinies
of men are determined by small
groups who make selfish choices of
their own.
i yicinMil Willi France.
"It Is very true, as more than one
of the speakers this evening have
either said or Intimated, that our
long-standing und delightful friend-
where j ship with (he people of Franca ha
They come from a community of Ideals and
identity of purpose. One republic'
must love another republic, Just as
pne body of human being's must un
derstand and sympathize with anoth
er body of human beings. There Is a
common pulse In in, all; there Is a
Common contact wtlh life; there Is a
common I .oily of hope; there Is a
rommon stock of resolution. All the
uirld over, the life of the Individual
means the same thing to him. It
means opportunity, not only, but It
also means his relationship to others,
and he conies to his full dlKnity only
when he stands upon the level with
others, and looking In his neighbor's
eye. knows that be belongs with hint
to a common, Iree community of pur
pose and thought und action. The
peace of the world is not going to l0
assured by the compacts of nations,
but, by the sympathies of men."
The president then told of a confer
ence on foreign missions attended by
j him once, saving that It was for the
purpose of wiping out the line be
I tween Christian churches In the work
I In foreign missionary fields. He add
' ed that he could not help saying that
white he sympathized with the pur
l ose of the conference, he hoped that
I hose w ho were converted In foreign
fields would not come "and look at
us."
What Slalue Means,
"When 1 see the Statue of Liberty, "
he continued, "and think of the thrill,
that must come Into soma hopeful
