wis
iVOLUME TWENTY-FOUR.
ARDMORE, OKLA., SUNDAY, DECEMBER 3. 1916.
NUMBER 49.
RUTH LAW, AVIATOR, BREAKS RECORD
IN CHICAGO TO NEW YORK AIR TRIP
TO IE BOARDED
flllSSISilS GREAT BATTLE
AGA1NSTTEUTDNS IHI CARPATHIANS
Rf
SLAVS ARE ATTEMPTING TO EREAK THROUGH TEU
TON LINES INTO TRANSYLVANIA AND HUNGARY,
AND DIVERT TEUTONS FROM BUCHAREST.
Vienna Statement Say Battle in Wooded Carpathians is Raging
Without Cessation Greece Agrees to Surrender Her Ar
tillery to Allies, and Troops of the Entente Allies are Be
ing Withdrawn from Piraeus Casualties in Greek Capital
in Friday Night's Fighting Said to Number Two Hundred
Berlin Reports Successes for the Armies of the Central
Powers -o Eastern Front and Capture of More than Six
Thousand Rumanians Teutons Said to Have Reached Ar
gechu River in lleir Advance Toward Bucharest Many
Changes Rumored in E7tish Cabinet Due to Demands for
More Forceful War Policy.
Petrograd, Dec. 2. The
Russians have gained posses
sion of the western part of the
Tchernavoda bridge across the
Danube, it is officially announc
ed. The villages of Tzomana
and Gostinara, South of Bucha
rest, have been recaptured, the
Teutonic forces being driven
back, ... -.V .
Battle Raging in Carpathians
Vienna, Dec. . The great
battle in the wooded Carpa
thians, where the Russians are
endeavoring to break through
into Transylvania and Hunga
ry, is raging Without cessation,
an official statement says.
Violent artillery fighting is
in progress on the Austro-Ital-ian
front, the war office says.
Several ammunition depots
were exploded near Gorizia
airmen dropped bombs in the
and on Caraso plateau. Hostile
airmen dropped bombs in the
Adige valley without damage.
battle, breaking through their
lines. .More than U.iliiO Rumanians
have been captured in western Ituinn
niu end forty-nine cannon. Tho armies
of tin; (Vnlral Powers have not reached
Argochu river in their uiivancc toward
Uuiharett.
n LASHER
AFTER VOUTH
FUE DRIVERS
SAYS HE IS GOING TO MAKE SOME
OF THEM SORRY UNLESS THEY
ARE ABLE TO PASS REQUIRED
EXAMINATION.
Mayor Lasher had a well developed
grouch yesterday afternoon when it
was reported to him that a youngster
scarcely ten years of ago at t he wheel
of a high-powered motor oar came
within an inch of killing a lady on
Broadway and C street. Tile mayor
Greece to Surrender Arm
Athens.Greece, Dec. 2.
King Constantine agrees to give
up the artillery demanded by
4 .1 -' 1 T - .. , 'T' I, .. , . . .
-mimiriw rum net. i ne uuuya suid ,.. w(mlarli w, reported the mat
of the entente allies are being tur OTl.r llie ,,1()I10 rt.fuKl,(1 , tl!C
withdrawn from Piraeus. Onji.r naim,, mt K11V ., ,.,, ,i,.a,.rip.
the intervention of the Spanish Uion of the car and tin- driver, and the
issued orders to get hiui,
f devil ' 7;'
tvf rsi - ,-uJ
CARRANZA IN OUTLINING RE
FORMS AT QUARETARO SAYS
INDIVIDUAL LIBERTY MUST BE
ESTABLISHED.
L
r
4 ,
1 -?
RUTH. LAW N MACHIME AMD HER
"CROSS. COUNTRVSMItt
Hull) Law at the wheel of a two-
year-old, no ohsolete type of Curtiss
mpiane. nyuiK irom ( nicao to miw
York, fli-w without stop from I'hiraRu
In llornell, N. Y., a distance of 5'J
miles, breakliiK I ho American cross
country and non stop record made by
Victor Cnrlstrom in the modern 200-
licir'sepower military hiplane on Nov. 2.
( arlstrom 8 non slop distance was 4"i
miles from Chicago to Krie, l'a. Miss
Law bettered this by 1:18 miles. In
eidentally Bhe broke the world's rec
ord for continuous flight for women
pilots. Her flyinir time for the entire
trip was about nine hours.
and Dutch ministers, the entire
cabinet and the entente diplo
mats last night arranged the
armistice and the firing ceased.
Many civilians are known to
have been killed.
mayor ha
if possible.
l.'ommenllnK on the matter of care
less driving, tlie mayor sand: "People
think that this order against children
driving a motor car without a permit
in Ardiuore is a Joke, hut some of
them are going to realize differently
in a few days. Tills mistaken idea of
Two Hundred Casualties
London, Dec. 2. The casual
ties in the Greek capital fight- :"" parents who imagine their cull
ing last night ar.o said to num-!drcn ca" llrlve H r"r ls koIk " cost
ber two hundred, according to !tnL'm """ trouble, be
an Athens dispatch. I cause this rule Is going to bo en-
I forced to the very letter and anyone
Rumored Changes In Cabinet. desiring to drive a car who is under
London, Dec. 2. Insistent rumors the age limit had better be making
continue relative to changes In the (arrangements for a permit.
British cabinet, or at any rate In the) "It Is just as reasonable to suppose
war council, as a result of the aglta-jthat a railroad company would put a
tlon for a more forceful conduct of the tmere hild in the call of a locomotive
war. Major General von Ounop has let Mm or her run It as it is tor
been replaced as master general of ord- I Parents to let their children handle a
nance In the Hrltlsh nrmv l.v MnloriMg. high potter car before they are
William T. Purse, member of the gen- lurSH ""'"Kh l"''k over the steering
nn.i Qinff wheel, a lid t lie child in the locomotive
cab would be the safest of the two,
as the engine would stay on the rails.
I am going to do my best to protect
the lives of our 'citizens, and the first
thing 1 am going to do is to put i
In Ard
TOLL ROAD TO THE OIL FIELDS IS
A CERTAINTY. WILL BE BUILT
Enthusiastic Meeting Friday Afternoon Deieloped the Fact that the Ones Be
hind the Project will Brook No' Such Word as Failure.
Attack on Serbian Positions.
Paris, Doc. 2. A violent attack was
made last lilglit on the Serbian posi-1
tions north of Grunlshte. nn the Mace-
donlan front, at the east Cerna River 8top ! elmna lrlving cars
.1- " more.
u'uu, niu nur unite rar
weatner Retards Operations
London. Doc. 2. Bad weather pre-' taken.
vents major operations on the Serbian
front, according to the war office.
Mayor Lasher says that he
heard complaints until he is tired,
now- some definite action will
has
and
be
LOAN TO FRENCH CITY.
Boredeaux to Accept Loan of Twenty
five Millions from Americans.
Bordeaux. Dec. 2. The city council
decides to accept the offer of a group
of American bankers of a loan of $25.
000,000, the loan (o run three years.
PRESIDENT IN NEW YORK.
Russian Attacks Failed.
Berlin, Dec 2. The efforts of ths
Russians to advance yesterday near
Smorga and south of Pins failed, the
war office says. The Russian and Ru
manian attacks on the Bukowlna and
Moldavian fronts also failed, the Teu
tons Inflicting heavy losses. The Aug-
ro-Gcrmans defeated the Rumanians i Participated In Inauguration of Light-
In the Campulung region in a pitched ,nB System of Statue of Liberty.
Washington. D. C, Dec. 2. Presi
jdeot Wilson and wife have gone to
j.Vew York to participate in the inaur
gu rat ion of the new lighting system
of the 'statue of Liberty there.
Read
The toll read to the oil fields will
be built, the first steps toward this
were taken Kriday afternoon when
Wirt Franklin, Hoy Jolftison and S.
A. Apple signed the application for
the slate charter.
Mr. Franklin will secure the charter
the first thing tomorrow morning.
This action was taken following an
enthusiastic meeting of the stock
holders at the rooms of the Chamber
of Commerce.
The full amount subscribed to dale
Is approximately $120,000. Col. K. L.
Gregory sugpejited a practical plan
In his brief address when lie said
that arrangements should be made to
build the road as far as it coulld he
on the funds available.
"That's business." said Hoy John
son, "but we must reach the llealdton
field." In tlio neantin.e Poll Howard
more than doubled Ills subscription
without comment. Hoy Johnson put
his name down for another additional
ten thousand dollars, W. D. Smith
Increased his to a th: usand and so
In less than fhe minutes the list
was raised to a point where enough
money was raised to build the road.
The application for the charter was
signed. The organization of the com
pany will follow after the charter Is
n turned and Thursday next Is set
for a big celebration at a noon day
lunc heon which will be arranged by
Secretary Gilbert at which it is ex
pected two hundred will be present.
The building of the toll road means
mere than one ran at present
Imagine. It l.s a splendid investment
in the first place, and It is the opin
ion of those who have made In
ipiiry into the toll road proposition
that each share holder will receive
valuable dividends for every dollar
invested, not only this but it Is the
true solution of permanent road build
ii i;. in this manner the man who
travels the road will pay for its con
struction as well as Its upkeep.
A sufficient amount of the toll re
f.i'ed each day will be M't aside
for the niainlainence, hence, the road
wVeti opened to travel, the receipts
will gruw from day to day any there
wi'i be no such Ihing as wearing
nit, in other words It will be kept
in good condition under all circum
stances the same as railroads "arc
!iepl today.
Kvery professional man, every busi
ness mini and laboring man' should
realize the Immense benefit to be de
rived from this toll road In Carter
county and lend every assistance pos
sible toward Its construction.
Carr.mcist.-.s Expected to Make At
tack on City, Which Was Decently
Captured by Villa Attack May Al
ready be Under Way.
(juaivtaro, Mexico, Dec. 2. In out
lining necessary reforms before the
constitutional congress. Carranza said
what he "desired first or all is the re
establishment of I lie rights and prin
ciple of Individual liberty. Human lib
erty must be guarded." tu Ills speech,
.'atyanza made no referoncn to tho
situation existing between Mexico and
the I'nlled Slates.
Make Attack on Chihuahua.
Juarez, Dec. 2. A general attack on
Chihuahua City by t ho Carranelstas
u an effort to retake the city from tha
Vlllistas, was expected to begin today
f it is nut already under way, accord
ng to reliable Information received
here.
07
IE W HOUSES ARE GOING UP AS
RAPIDLY AS WORKMEN CAN
COMPLETE THEM RENTAL
PROPERTY SCARCE.
Building activities continue In this
rity. Several new cottages are going;
up in different parts of town, and tliey
are Invariably rented to desirable ten-
BOYCOTTSAHE jllMOTEST
CAUSING BIG 9EFf iffllil'l ;
KINS OF BELGIANS
The building of this toll road not ant8 ,rore thB foundation is hardly
only means a good and permanent !uuj. One man"wlio recently arrived
highway, but It means more to Ard-'in the city stated yesterday moraine
more, It means that when the road la . that lis had been house hunting fop
built, that there will he a greater 'three days and had found notlilng suit
population, more and bigger office 'able, lie stated that as he Intended
population, more and higher office to remain here for several months that
buildings, and many other civic im- ib believed he would purchase a lot In
provements. J). A. Simpson Is already a desirable location and build a house
planning for a six story office build- (Of his own. He said he considered it
ing, provided the road is built, and Is a "good investment and that he would
doing his best to promote the enter- surely be able to dispose of his prop
prise. The committee from the Cham- erly at a profit if he decided to leave
ber of Commerce and the Business Ardmore in the future.
Men's Association nre all working dlii-1 Contractors are busy all over tho
gently to sell a sufficient amount of Hy. They have all the work they
stoc k, and It begins to look as If their an attend to and there Is not an Idlu
effort will be crowned with success. I mechanic In Ardmore who wants to
work. Contracts arc let a long way
a head for new homes, and the building'
arranged for a monster mass-meeting
here on December lath, "to voice the
protest of American people" In the
matter of the wholesale deportation of
Belgians from their homes to (Jermany.
Many imminent Americans are to par
ticipate including Kliliu B. Hoot.
BUTTER, EGGS AND POULTRY DE
CREASE IN PRICE AS RESULT
OF BOYCOTT IN CHICAGO AND
OTHER BIG CITIES.
FOOTBALLS YEARLY TOLL.
Chicago, Ills.. Dec.2. Fifteen foot
ball players lost their lives during the
season ending Thanksgiving. Sixteen
deaths occurred last season. On'y one
of this year's victims was a co'lege
player.
Chicago. Ills., Dec. 2. The prlccsJ
of butter, eggs and poultry continue to
decrease following the boycott. The
city prosecutor says he will enforce
the ordinance against speculative
manipulations of the food market.
Boycott in Toledo Too.
Toledo. Ohio. Dec. 2. Two hundred
housewives today began a thirty-day
AMERICAN AMBASSADOR WILL
EMPHASIZE IN PERSON REPRE
SENTATIONS OF GOVERNMENT
AGAINST DEPORTATION.
boycott of butter
down prices.
and eggs to force
George Taliaferro and daughter j
Thelma of Winficld, Texas, are In the i
city, the g'jtsts of W. D. Taliaferro and
family.
Washington, D. C. Dec. 2. The ret
esentationa on the deportation of Bel
gian civilians, which were recently
made by United States to Germany
will be emphasiza personally on
German officials by Ambassador Ger
ard, when he reaches his post. He
alls for Germany Thursday. For a
time. It was believed that this govern
ment would wait until Gerard reached
Berlin before presenting formally Pi
communication on tills subject, but It
is di-cloFed that the protest, based on
bread grounds of humani'y. was hur.
ried along to the German officials by
V.'a-hington.
New York, Dec. 2 Plans are blrg
DEMAND EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
Women Workers in Big Eastern Citiaa
to Ask for Eight Hour Day.
New York. Dec. 2. Representatives
of the waitresses, laundresses and
women garment workers of New York.
Philadelphia and Baltimore are con
ferring relative to an'effort to obtain
an eight-hour day.
WELSH MINERS GET RAISE.
Increase of Fifteen Percent In Wages
Granted Miners by Government
London. Dec. 2. The government
grants the demaejji of the Welsh min
frs for a 15 per cent wage increase,
says Cardiff dispatch.
Ferguson Appoints Sherman Man.
Austin. Tex.. Dec. 2. Governor Fer
guson today appointed W. R. Brents
of Sherman at a member of the board
of regents of the University of Texas,
succeeding M. Faher of Tyler. The
appointment is to become effective
immediately.
activity was never more brisk than at
present.
The Wliittington hotel and the Pen.
nlngton Wholesale Grocery company's
building are completed and the Santa,
Fe freight house Is almost finished.
When the new union station Is erected
at this point the lower end of Main
street lll present a changed appear
ance.
The state wide campaign In behalf
of the Y. M. C. A. movement will be
in progress throughout Oklahoma be
ginning with today. A representa
tive of the state and international
nommlttee will vls't each of the lar
ger cities to Inaugurate this work.
The committee will confer with local
committees In earn of the cities'
visited and some real good results are
looked for. John E. Manley state
secretary for Kansas las been to
Ardmore and will h Here on the
7th to go ovrr the local situation.
nnnonnaanntt
WEATHER FORECAST
Ne Orleans. La., Dec. 2.
The weather forecast for Ok
lahrrna for Sunday is unsettled.
a
u
n
n
n
e
9
aaaaonoanantj
