PBB " " " " ' BBBI
BBBj
r
B Bi B HS Bb BV BB Bi BVBJ Bi Bfl Bi Bm Bh Bb BT Br Bi B Be B BBj
yo!. 27 , SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916 tVjo.,15 H
iTLL 27HS PROPOSED AMENDMENT I
"MB-HE last legislature of this state passed by a two-thirds vote a joint resolution to amend Article 12 of the Constitution of the H
m Cjstate relative to revenue and taxation, which will be submitted to a vote of the people at the election in November, and if ap- H
proved will become a part of the Constitution on the first of January next. H
This provides for the taxation of mines, for taxing the surface, all the buildings, machinery, improvements everything in sight. H
t Then it proceeds as follows : In addition to the assessment of the surface grounds, improvements and machinery of mines and min- H
ing claims.producing net proceeds shall be taxed at a value, not to exceed three times such net production." - Bfl
1 How any legislature could pass such a clause as that is beyond our comprehension, except on the score that the members did not H
know what they did. H
Why not apply the same rule to the farmer and merchant? Bfl
: ' Why not say to the merchant: "We will tax your store and your merchandize at full value, and then, if at the end of the year you BfJ
have made any profit, we will levy an additional tax upon you of not more than three times your profits. That is if you clear $10,000 H
we will tax you in addition on $30,000 to punish you for making that much money. M
A man on a company spends years of time and thousands of dollars in the hope of finding an ore deposit. H
Perhaps one in ten succeeds and begins to pay little dividends to its stock holders who are out thousands of dollars on the enter-
t prise. Then the assessor, who is lying in wait, goes to the managers and says: "What is the amount of -the "dividends you have pa'id Bfl
during the past year?" The answer may be $20,000. Then the assessor says: "You will have to submit to an increase on your prop- M
erty for taxation purposes of $60,000." t M
If the managers say, "But we paid that to our stock holders. They are being taxed for it and, moreover, the deposit from which we M
took it is exhausted, and we are now at great expense searching for another." The assessor will only answer : "I cannot help that, I Bfl
stand on the constitution and must execute the command of the law." fl
Was anything ever more ridiculous?
But there is something behind all that. Prices labor, everything of value is rated by the amount of money in circulation among fl
the people. i fl
I For instance, the prices of food and of labor in China are ninety or more per cent less than here, because the per capita of money M
i in that country is ninety per cent less than here. - , H
' All the money that any people can get must come from two sources. One is from the mines, the other through trade, and all that H
is obtained through trade must have originally come from mines. t H
So significant is their fact that up to a few years ago, even Mexico paid a premium to any one who found a mine. H
i It is needless to say that except for the mines of this and surrounding states, Utah would today have been so poor that she would be H
I an object of sympathy. H
1 , Why then this craze to cinch the miner and 'hold a club over every one who explores the desert mountains in search of treasure? H
I It is not fair to an enlightened mind, it is only an exhibition of vindicative ignorance. , H
It is the duty of all speakers of all parties, and all newspapers in the state to warn the people against this proposed amendment H
i that they may bury it under a mountain of righteous ballots on election day. H
Bfl
, He Had Better Not
I ' A DISPATCH says that the president will today
reply to Mr. Hughes's arraignment of him for
driving through congress the eight-hour law for
railroad men. If ho does it will bo wise on his
i- part to confine himself to a statement that it has
M for a long time beqn a conviction with him that
4 a day's work should not exceed eight hours, and
II ' that the demand of the brotherhood was a just
j one and it was right to crystallize it into
aS law. That will be enough for the purpose
fJJB designed and will prevent the president trenching
Tjfm on dangerous ground, for it surely would be dan
fV gerous for him to attempt to discuss the real
11 question, which is: "If any organization under
R our government can make a demand upon the gov
"Ijfc eminent, and, refusing all arbitration, give the
government only five days to accede to the de-
I mand, on pain of inflicting vast anxiety and loss
J upon millions of people if the demand is refused,
T
compel the government to yield, how much is
such a government worth?"
That is the real point, but in this case the out
rage is greatly accentuated by the facts. Cou
pled with the demand or included in it is the
demand for a vast sum of money from the public
the brotherhood say $30,000,000, the railroad
companies say $G0,000,000 and President Elliott of
the New York, New Haven & Hartford road says
if the law is to be construed to include all railway
employees it will mean an assessment on the
people who patronize railways of $300,000,000 per
annum in exceps of present charges.
Again. This demand was made by men who
are receiving better pay for their work than the
same men could obtain anywhere else the world
around.
Again, it was made upon the managers of
property which is quasi public property and in
important respects is under government control,
and the value of which rests entirely upon the M
patronage of the whole people. H
The president cannot plead ignorance of these H
facts, nor of the other fact that what he did was H
in the face of the protests of a dozen railroad H
presidents, each one of whom has more knowl- H
edge of business and of the relations which should H
exist between employees and employers in the BJ
railroad service, than have the president and H
congress combined. These men were not arro- H
gant, nor did they seek to evade the issue in the fl
least, but were all the time anxious to have the H
differences adjudicated as wise men and nations 'H
settle their differences. ttB
But the president overrode all their opinions BJ
and bulldozed congress into passing a measure of ABJ
his own, which measure, while making a good B
party campaign iry, is in its essence an abject B
surrender of the joverelgn power of a great na- BB
tion to the demand of a pampered few men, which H
demand was indirectly for millions of dollars in H
Bj
