A.
Tbe Intelligent, common sense
tvoi'kinjfiiieif prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—(3om
pers.
Morrisey Issues *„.
ing Record of Preseii*
Workers In All Lines Are Bene­
fitted Hughes Declared
Non-Committal.
James R. Morrisey has issued a state­
ment at Peru, In., Riving his reasons
for believing: that labor should sup­
port President Wilson for re-election.
Mr. Morrisey is chairman of the In­
diana co-operative legislation hoard
of the Brotherhood of Locomotive En­
gineers, Order of Railway Conductors,
Brotehrhood of Locomotive Firemen
and Enginemen and chairman Indiana
legislative hoard Brotherhood of Lo­
comotive Firemen and Enginemen,
and Brotherhood of Railway rain
men.
"In answer to a large number of
Inquiries addressed to me as to which
political party the wage earners of the
state should support I beg to answer
that the wage earners should support
the party which in its fundamental
policies and its legislation has done
most to promote the welfare of the
laboring classes.
Opportunity for All.
"In my opinion that, party serves
best the whole country which, by its
legislation, gives to all classes the
opportunity to employ tiheir talents
and ability and to enjoy the fruits of
their toil. In the. attainment of the
end, compared with the legislation of
any other political party in recent
years the Democratic party in its leg­
islative achievements stands pre-em­
inently the best friend of the wage
earning classes.
"I make this assertion "backed by
the specific enactments of a democrat­
ic administration which speak for
themselves.
"Since March 4, 1913, a Democratic
congress has enacted more than 25
laws directly in the interest of labor,
and chief among these laws I mention
the following specifically:
"The trades dispute act. 'embracing
the* relation of labor organizations to
the anti-trust laws of the country,' the
regulation of the issuance of injunc­
tions and the guaranty of the right of
trial by jury for hlleged contempts
committed out of the presence of the
court, an act which determines once
and for all that labor is not a com­
modity.
"The department of labor law creat­
ing a department with a secretary
'who shall be a member of the presi­
dent's cabinet, the 8-hour law apply­
ing to work done for the government
as well as work done by the govern
-4hent, including postal employes,
dredge workers, miners of coal to be
used by the government, a provision
in the postoffice appropriation bijl ex­
empting postal employes from the op­
eration of the gag rule applied by ex­
ecutive order issued by President
"Roosevelt and broadened by President
Taft, now permitting postal employes
to take their grievances to the con­
gress without fear of dismissal from
the postal service for so doing.
The Industrial commission bill to
Investigate the entire subject of in­
dustrial relations between employer
and employe with a view of ascertain­
ing the best methods of dealing with
industrial disputes, so as to protect
the rights of all persons concerned di­
rectly or indirectly, the federal re-
Cnntinned on rage 2.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Sept. 23.—Estab­
lishment of cost systems by manufac­
turers was recommended as one of the
most important means of strengthen­
ing American industries to meet Euro­
pean competition after the war by Ed
Ward N. Hurley, chairman of the fed­
eral trade commission, in an address
before the Ohio Bankers'- association
here recently.
"The man who does not know his
true costs is just the man who prices
his goods foolishly, and thereby im­
pairs the business of his sound com­
petitors at the same time that he ruins
ihis own," said Mr. Hurley. "He also
|l»rged that strennuous efforts to in­
crease American foreign trade, par­
ticularly by establishment of branches
,©f American banks abroad, be made
llo meet the more efficient and larger
scale production of European coun­
tries when peace comes."
The Address.
Mr. Hurley's address in part fol­
lows:
I When~~we think of Europe we thirik
jOf a continuent engulfed in war, de
ivasterf and disordered, but I want to
[say. to you that we must correct that
conception. While in many respects
we know little of what is going on in
the warring nations, we do know that
-within sound of the guns, almost with­
in reach of the falling shells, Europe
'Is reorganizing her industries. Under
the stress of a life-and-d^ath struggle
every effort is being made to obtain
thehlghest efficiency in the produc­
tion, the distribution. and the Use of
commodities of all kinds. Conserva­
tism iii.iQdustr^ ideals, and methods
President Gompers Issues Call
36th Annual Convention
ministration. A. F. Of L.
CONGRESS HAS PASSED LABOR x'O PLAY PART
MANY LABOR BILLS IN WAR SETTLEMENT
Will Take Action to Help Restore
Peace to the World—Exchange
Fraternal Delegates.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, today
issued the call for thirty-sixth annual
convention to meet at Baltimore,
Nov. in. 1916. The Federation will
remain in session more than two
weeks.
After defining the basis of repre­
sentation in the convention Mr. Gom­
pers discusses the probable program
of the meeting in the following lan­
guage contained in the call:
"It is of course, entirely unneces­
sary here to enumerate all the im­
portant subjects with whicih our forth­
coming convention will concern itself,
but the reminder is not at all amiss
that every effort must be made to
broaden the field and means for the
organization of the yet unorganized
workers, to strive to bring about more
effectually than ever a better day in
the lives and homes of the toilers, to
defend and maintain by every honor­
able means in our power the right to
organize for our common defense and
advancement, for the. exercise of our
normal and constitutional activities to
protect,and promote the rights and
interests of the workers and to as­
sart at any risk the freedom of speech
#nd of-the press and the equal rights
before the law of every worker with
every other citizen: to aid our fellow
workers against the effort now being
made by Labor's enemies to entangle
the workers in the meshes of litiga­
tion before the courts in the several
states to arouse our fellow-workers
and fellow-citizens to the danger
which threatens to curb or take away
their guaranteed rights and freedom
the tremendous conflict now being
waged in Europe and its possible con­
sequences and results, not only upon
the people of European countries but
upon tbe people of America, as well
as on the whole civilized world, must
of necessity receiove the deepest so­
licitous consideration of the working
people of America.
"How and what further action can
be taken by the American labor move­
ment to help bring about an early
peace among the warring nations of
Europe: how that peace can be se­
cured with the establishment and
maintenance of justice, freedom, and
brotherhood the world over. These
and other great questions of equal
importance will, of necessity, occupy
the attention of the Baltimore con­
vention."
I
DETROIT VOTES TO GIVE
EMPLOYE HIGHEST WAGE
DETROIT, Sept. 21.—By a popular
vote Detroit citizens have adopted a
charter amendment which provides
that common labor employed by the
city shall not receive less than $2.50 a
day and that no employe doing the
work of a skilled mechanic shall re­
ceive compensation in a sum less than
the highest prevailing wage in that
particular grade of work. Eight
hours shall constitute a day's work
and double time shall be paid for
Sunday and holiday ~*ork, except in
cases of emergency. The amendment
was urged by organized labor.
has been blasted anct shattered to
pieces in the shock of war old sys­
tems that normally would have hung
on for years have been discarded in a
day, old equipment tKat would have
been retained for years has been
scrapped as fast as possible for new in­
stallations of the most advanced types.
New processes are being discovered,
new inventions are being made, and
new forms of organizations are being
created.
England industrially has been pre­
eminently the land of yesterday. Con­
servatism was the dominant character
stiic of British business. While Massa­
chusetts was making textiles with au­
tomatic looms under conditions that
permitted one operator to 10 from 16
to 24 machines, Lancashire clung to
old equipment and conditions under
which one operator could tepd but
four machines. But at last England is
aroused, and today American books on
efficiency and scientific management
are being bought by the hundred and
studied all over England. The war has
compelled Great Britain to make 30
years of industrial progress in 30
months.
Before the war Germany was prob­
ably the most highly organized and
efficient manufacturing nation in the
world, but in Germany organization
and efficiency have been still further
developed, and, no matter whether
victorious or defearted, the Germany'
that emerges from the war, will be
years ahead of the Germany we knew
in 1914.
We Must Keep Step.
These changes are of great concern
to us. We may not realize this today,
because things ars coming our way
noftv
Jmtvwe-.muB^&bk
&head,
to
th*
The charter amendment, to be voted on next Tues­
day, should not be defeated either on acocunt of its
fool friends, or on account of its fool enemies.
It should be voted up or down on acocunt of its
merits.
We do not care to stretch or suppress the truth on any
question submitted to the people of Duluth for tfieir
decision.
We are very anxious that the people of our little
city should vote intelligently and wisely on all mat­
ters affecting their own government.
By so doing, they will vindicate both the right and
the expediency of direct legislation on municipal ques­
tions
The people will make some mistakes but they
will make fewer mistakes than the legislature will
and so we want the people to so decide their own ques­
tions that there will be no excuse for the legislature
to "butt in" on our local affairs.
Holding these views, we ask the people, particularly
the workingmen, to consider these things before they
vote next Tuesday:
1 The Gharter Commission, a body of representative
citizens, with no axes to grind and with no arilia
tions with the city hall, after a thorough investigation,
have unanimously approved this amendment.
2. The.increase in the levy is for three years only
and it cannot be used after that unless the people
again vote on the question.
3. The 3-mill levy can be used for public improve­
ments—pavements and sewers, and then only after
the people directly interested, who pay about 95 per
cent of the cost, petition for the improvement.v If
STRIKEBREAKERS OF
NEW. YORK REVOLT
NEW YORK, Sept. 21.—While the
public service commission was holding
open hearings on the street car strike
a crowd of strikebreakers, who had
escaped from the closely guarded
barns in which the "free and inde­
pendents" are herded, appeared be­
fore the commission and told a story
of being slugged, robbed and being
held as prisoners. The spokesman
said he and his companions were
compelled to live in filth, that the
detective agency had refused to pay
them and that they had not been
given enough to eat. They said th«jy
had been brought to New York city
by the Bergoff Brothers & Waddell
Detective Agency and had originally
been promised $5 a day. This was
reduced and When the. .strikebreakers
objected they were told to talce what
was offered them or they would be
"beaten up."
"One hundred and fifty strike­
breakers, all of th'em brought here
from Chicago, are prisoners at the
car barn at 179th street and Third
avenue," said the spokesman. "All of
them have gone on strike and want to.
quit, but the guards won't let them
out."
STEAM ENGINEERS MEET.
NEWARK, N. J., Sept. 21.—The bi­
ennial convention of the International
Union of Steam and Operating Engi­
neers was held in this city during the
week. President Gompers addressed
the delegates, devoting considerable
time to the legislative gains made by
organized labor during the past year.
I
CO-OPS. MAKE GOOD REPORTS.
WEST FRANKFORT, 111., Sept. 21.
—A report by the Co-operative society
shows a 10 per cent quarterly dividend
to members. Total sales to members
for three months, $8,158.92 total
sales to non-members, $4,124.20.
JOHNSTON CITY, 111., Sept. 21.—
During the past quarter the total sales
to members of the Co-operative so­
ciety was $5,809.49, and sales to non
members was $1,386.26. The society
paid a 10 per cent dividend.
future conditions, we must prepare to
meet. If our industries are not to he
caught slow of mind and flabby of
muscle, we/must improve our busi­
ness organization must increase our
manufacturing and merchandising ef
feciendy and must keep pace with
every step in Europe's industrial prog­
ress.
In considering our position after the
war, I wish to talk chiefly about what
we must do here at home. Next to
England we have the greatest foreign
trade of any nation in the world. Our
exports and imports reach billions of
dollars in value. Gentlemen, we must
keep and expand that great trade. It
means the full tide of prosperity for
our factories and farms. It means the
best comforts and conveniences of
modern civilization for the families
and homes of this country.
Bankers and Foreign Trade
One of the most significant factors
in foreign trade is the banker. As the
wonderful foreign trade of Great Brit­
ain developed, British banks estab­
lished branches, and agencies all over
the world. British foreign trade banks
do business, for example* not onlyi all
over South America, .the Orient, the
East Indies and all along the coast of
Africa, but far inland as well. There
are branches of British banks 300
miles up the Niger, 800 miles up the
Zambezi, and 1,000 miles up the Nile,
When Germany began her "drive" for
foreign1 trade she established her own
hanks in South America, Africa, the
Orient, and the Levant. She understood
the necessity, of having her own banks
in foreign .markets if her importers
and exporters were to finance their
shipments as they wished, were to liiive
the credit information, needed,- fejfed-
maBsss
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULTJTH AND SUPERIOR, SEPTEMBER 23,1916.
CLAP-TRAP DRIVEL"
ABOUT DAY LABORERS
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 21.—A
local newspaper declared that "the
day laborer in California lives better
today than the rather prosperous
merchant lives in anjjf other part ^f
the world."
Editor Scharranberg of the Coast
Seamen's Journal saya' this statement
is "fclaptrap drivel."
"It is inferred," he Continues, "that
those of us who bejbng to labor
unions for purposes of safeguarding
our liberties are afflicted with unrea­
sonable discontent, an are unworthy
of citizenship in this glorious com­
monwealth.
"It is doubtful if anywhere else in
the wide World is-thefe such a large
pSrcerftSge ofhomduSte men drilling
to work, who are living under a sys­
tem which compels them to pick up
their blankets and walk every time
they are compelled to change Jobs.
Some 50,000 men in California are
commonly termed 'blanket stiffs,' ow­
ing to the fact that their employers
do not give them the consideration
granted to horses and cattle in the
provision* of shelter. To the initiated,
the lot of the 'day laborer in Cali­
fornia,' far from being 'better than
the rather prosperous merchant' else­
where, is, in many instances, less to
'bo envied than that
f.
jthe people do not ask for their streets to be paved, the
|city cannot use any of the levy to pay for street
intersections.
4. The amendment only permits the levy to be made,
if, and only if, necessary for these particular pur­
poses it does not require any amount to be levied.
,5. No part of the money can be used for general
expenses, salaries, automobiles, or any* other purpose
except for storm sewers and street intersections of
pavements.
6 The amendment has been unanimously approvd by
every organization that has actually investigated the
facts only those people who have made ho investi­
gations of the facts have opposed it.
7. It will result in the increase of the wage income
of our workingmen to the amount of about $400,000
a year, most of which will ultimately go to our retail
grocers, dry goods merchants, butchers, clothiers, and
others who sell what workingmen and their families
need for personal use.
8. The levy will be spent on streets in the residence
districts where good pavements are needed, and not
in any real estate speculations. Commissioner Farrell
can be depended on to use the same good sense in
the future that he has in the past in determining where
th money should be spent. He has paved no streets
yet in order to help any real estate speculation and
he will not.
Be a good citizen cast your vote in accordance with
your common sense do not be misled by narrow
minded kickers be a booster and vindicate the
right of the people to rule by voting for the amend­
ment.
the household
pets of the said merchant."
MILLIONS LOST TO PUBLIC.
NEWARK, N. J., Sept. 21.—-Vice
Chancelor Howell announces there is
no hope of stockholders receiving any
of the $150,000,000 stock of the ltock
Island company held by them. The
company was organized in 1902 to
hold the stock of the Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific railroad company,
which, in turn, held the stock of the
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Rail­
way company. The substitution of the
words "railroad" and "railway"
makes the first named company a.
separate concern.
The men who have looted this prop­
erty are positive that eight hfurs for
train service employes is unconstitu­
tional, confiscatory and un-American.
AMERICA MOST PREPARE FOR TRADE COMPETTIION AFTER TBE WAR
..were to extend the credits required.
So far as the United States is con­
cerned we are almost without foreign
trade banks of our own. That condi­
tion exists in the face of the^ fact that
our foreign trade is the second greatest
in the world, is valued in billions of
dollars, and calls for tremendous bank,
ing and financial transaction every
day.
To establish foreign branch banks
and agencies, to place at the disposal
of our exporters American financial
facilities instead of compelling them to
depend on British, German and
French, to give the necessary informa­
tion of foreign credits, and to assist
our exporters and importers to finance
their transactions—all this is the
province of the American banker. It
means more business and more profits
for our banks.
Trade Opportunities.
This is not merely the opportunity of
the bankers of the coast cities. In­
land bankers have tiheir foreign trade
opportunities, and you have yours
right here in Ohio.
Important as our foreign trade is to
us, our domestic business is far more
important, and I am deeply desirious
of seeing it placed on the footing of
efficiency that we must attain.
Among the essentials of efficiency in
any business correct and adequate
knowledge of that business is the first.
That is the foundation, and the corner­
stone of knowledge of business is the
knowledge of costs. But the unfor­
tunate fact is that many business men
do not know their costs accurately.
Most of the big companies have good
cost systenis, hut thousands of the
smaller cdncisrna have neither ade*
WS&
fir aieeuM*,cott
iccountlng.
OFFERS "SOLUTION" OF
ALL LABOR TROUBLES
MONTGOMERY, Ala., Sept. 21.—
John H. Wallace jr., ctate game and
fish commissioner, has discovered a
system whereby strikes and lockouts
will no longer distract this nation.
His plan ia simple—appoint an arbi­
tration board to adjust wages, make
it illegal to strike while the board is
reviewing the case and depend upon
public opinion to enforce the award.
Mr. Wallace averred in a Labor day
speech:
The weight of public opinion
would undoubtedly sustain the board
of arbitration, therefore strikes and
lockouts, uppu
5
the adoption of the
recommend woiri have suggested,
would become a thing-of the past."
.This ancient scheme of tying men
to
was_foisted on Colorado
by the last legislature, but at the re­
cent convention of the state federa­
tion of labor was roundly denounced.
Despite this latest repudiation of
compulsion, men still ignore the ver­
dict of history and present the sys­
tem as some new discovery.
MEXICAN CONFEREES
ARE NOW IN SESSION
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 21.—
Determined to solve differences be­
tween the United Statea and Mexico,
and substitute mediation for shot and
shell, representatives of the two coun­
tries are holding sessions in this city.
The Mexican representatives have
emphasized the work of rehabilitating
their country, which has been done by
the Carranza administration and the
rapid progress that is being made in
re-establishing order. Proposed re­
forms in educational and agricultural
lines have been related in detail by
the Mexicans, who have pointed out
that the recognition of the Carranza
government has greatly assisted the
constitutionalists in their work.
r-«
MINIMUM WAGE CARRIES.
DETROIT, Mich., Sept. 21.—The
minimum wage amendment to the city
charter carried by a large majority.
Labor has won a signal victory.
Another still more serious feature of
the situation is the fact that out of
the 60,00 corporations that report an
annual income of $5,000 or over, half
do not charge off a single penny for
I depreciation. Obviously their cost sys
I tems are neither adequate or reliable.
I It is not the intention of the federal
trade commission to assume the atti­
tude of scolding business men. We
understand how these conditions have
come about. But do you not think it
is time for some one to call the atten­
tion of the business community, and
particularly the bankers, to the sig­
nificance of these facts.
Commission and Accounting.
The t'ederal trade'commission is do­
ing all it can to help in this matter. In
the first place we have prepared two
pamphlets giving plainly and briefly
the fundamentals of cost accounting,
one for manufacturers &nd one for
merchants. Thousands of requests are
coming in for these pamphlets. We
are surprised at the earnest response.
In the second place, the commission
is co-operating with many trade asso­
ciations, which are endeavoring to get
their members to adopt bound ac­
counting systems.
Such co-operation to put industries
in possession of the facts of co3t is a
vital function of the trade associations
for only when correct cost systems are
generally in use can an industry in­
telligently attack the problem of im­
proving scientifically its methods of
P-'oduction and distribution. This kind
of co-operation counts inost, and it
can .look the antitrust laws squarely in
the dye. Let me say right here that
I do not believe in agreements to fix
prfpgs. :h«ye .mor. sympathy tor asr
"f "fff'lVlBItt"!1'1 UuMb
MINNESOTA
Bfiniinf/
President's Great Accomplish­
ments On Behalf of Labor
Are Lauded.
CHICAGO WOMEN ISSUE
PLEDGE IN HIS BEHALF
Child Labor Law and Eight-Hour
JDay Act Are Warmly
Endorsed.
President Wilson's administration
has received the endorsement of labor
men all over the United States. A
group of working women in Chicago,
who are to cast their first presidential
ballot this fall, formed a Working
Women's Independent Woodrow Wil­
son League, Sept. 9, 1916. They issue
the following statement:
"We, the undersigned working
womeji, pledge our support to re-elect
President Woodrow Wilson.
"We pledge him our support:
"Because of his splendid record
during the last four years in a. most
critical period in the history of our
nation
"Because he has stood with the
common people as against the big
business interests of the country:
"Because he has placed human val­
ues above property values, and stands
for human freedom
"Because of his record of labor leg­
islation which was denied us during
other administrations particularly the
enactment of the Child Labor law and
the Clayton Anti-trust act:
"Because of his courageous stand
for the eight-hour day in the recent
railroad controversy
"Because we believe that by his ac­
tion in this case he has advanced the
cause of the shorter work-day to such
an extent that we look to an early
enactment of eight-hour legislation
for women in the various states and
by congress.
"For these reasons we feel justified
in calling uron the workingwomen.
regardless of party, to join in our
campaign to work for the re-election
of President Wilson.
(Signed)
"Agnes Nestor, president Interna­
tional Glove Workers Union of Amer­
ica: president Chicago Women's Trade
Union League.
"Mary Anderson, Boot and Shoe
Workers Union No. 94.
"Elizabeth Christman, Glove Work
em' Union No. 18.
"Catherine Finnegan, president
Bindery Women's Union.
"Mary Haney. United Garment
Workers of America, No. 33.
"Frances E. Harden, Teachers'
League, Chicago.
"Agnes Johnson, Boot and Shoe
Workers' Union No. 94.
"E. Beatrix Dauchy. Chicago Wo­
men's Trade Union League.
"Mary McEnerney, Bindery Wo­
men's Union No. 30..
"Elizabeth Maloney, Organizer,
Waitresses' Union."
BOYCOTT NOT SO FUNNY.
MINNEAPOLIS, Sept. 21.—The
manager of the Northern theater has
sued the Moving Picture Operators*
union for $1,300 damages and asks
for an injunction restraining these
unionists from advertising his place
as hostile to organized labor.
Low-wage employers are Organized
into a Citizens* Alliance and when the
theatrical manager began operating
his house on the non-union plan lie
was highly praised for his "independ­
ence." But patronage fell off and no*v
he tells the court it is not the kind of
advertising he expected.
tempt it. In the first place it is illegal,
and in the secorid place, even if it were
legal, it would still be a bad thing. It
simply covers up inefficiencies instead
of getting rid of them. It is not a
remedy for the disease that ails busi­
ness. It is merely an opiate.
You bankers have an interest In
every movement that makes for the
welfare of American business and the
general prosperity of the public, for
that welfare and that prosperity con­
stitute the security for your loans. But
you also have a public responsibility,
which I am sure you are proud io ac­
knowledge, for the wise and health­
ful distribution of capital among the
country's enterprises.
Better Accounting Ahead.
Let me outline, in closing, a sug­
gestion which it seems to me will go
far to enable the bankers of the coun­
try to give intelligent nelp in the
movement for business efficiency. I
hope that in the not very distant fu­
ture each industry in this country
will have developed a basic cost sys­
tem that will fit its particular needs
that the question of a reasonable and
adequate basic for depreciation will be
worked out for each industry and that
these basic systems will be approved
by the federal trade commission. More­
over, I hope it will be possible for any
public accountant, by conforming to
certain tests and -rules laid down by
the federal reserve board, to &&ve
a United States registry.
Under this plan' the balance sheet of
tomorrow, as presented to a banker,
will have the certificate of a public ac­
countant and, in addition, bear a
registration stamp or number of the
regional reserve board. Wheh this is
brymfrt About the frapfor l)» -pjMv
'he working clan movement to
mo?t
effective must be conducted
ty the worfceTs themselves In the In­
terest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called In­
tellectuals or butters-ln.—Gom pers.
TWO CENTS.
Frederic C. Howe Upholds Dem­
ocracy While In Charg* At
Ellis Stand
WINS FIGHT AGAINST
CONGESSMAN BENNETT
Urges Government to Feed Im.
migrants at Cost and Cancel
Huge Contract.
By DANTE BARTON.
NEW YORK, S3pt. 23.—The indus­
trial relations for millions of Ameri­
can citizens- and workers begins at
Ellis Island. That is New York's
great port of entry for immigrant*.
Through that gateway -have poured
tbe greatest number of those men and
women and children from Euror©
who have peopled this great republic,
tilled its fields, opened its mines, es­
tablished its factories and made them
productive, made its laws, elected its
public servants, and created her* a na­
tion distinctive and great in its
achievements and more distinctive and
great in its promises.
To have charge at this gateway and
to safeguard the rights of the people
already here and to safeguard in
equal measure the rights an* interests
of the new workers and citizens and
their families. President Wilson ap­
pointed Fredric C. Howe. Tt wds one
of *those appointments, like the ap­
pointment of Lonis D. Brandeis to the
supreme court, ^that was "lailed every­
where among the plain people as a
pledge that\ the administration in­
tended a government of the right kind
of men to carry on a government of
the right kind of laws. Among all in­
formed and forwardlooking people,
and esnecially among the producers
and toilers, many of whom had passed
through Ellis Island and knew from
experience what was wrong with it
and what should be made right with
it, Mr. Howe's appointment gave the
chiefest satisfaction.
Upholds Democracy.
The finest and greatest proof that
in his place of trust" at Ellis Island
Frederic C. Howe vindicated and up­
held the national and international
reputation he had earne as a writer
of fundamental democracy aqd as an*
official and unofficial servant in ac­
tion of the public has been given late­
ly by a member of congress, named W.
S. Bennet of New York. This con­
gressman Was irresponsible because ho
was privileged to make the most un­
founded accusations again3t any pub­
lic or private citizens without any re­
sponsibility in a court of law or in any
other tribunal for his statements. This
congressman exercised this privilege
against a public official, who had not
the privileges of the floor of congress,
as the result of the action of commis­
sioner Howe in haying advised that the
governmeht should not continue a con­
tract with a firm of former clients of
the congressman for feeding the im­
migrant men, women and children
confided to tha government's care. Mr.
Howe's recommendations were that
the contract, involving the expenditure
of $500,000 a year, in time of normal
immigration and being very profitable,
should not be renewed, and that, in­
stead, the authorities at Ellis Island
should purchase the food and prepare
and supply it to the immigrants at
cost.
For this Mr. Howe was assailed. For
this unfounded rumors of 'immorality"
among the thousands of men and
women of all nationalities who are de­
tained at the island were misstated as
Continued on Page 2.
ticularly benefited. The accountant,
although anxious to do what-is right,
realizes that unless he is willing to
agree with his client he is likely to
lose him, and compromises by charg­
ing off an insufficient amount for de-
preciation. The next year similar con­
ditions arise and after this has con­
tinued for two or three years, it is a
hard matter to treat this item in such
a way that the balance sheets will be
on a correct and sound basis. But
when we have an officially approved
tasis -for depreciation in that manu­
facturer's industry, the accountant and
the banker working together will be
able to bring the manufacturer into
line.
I do not want you to get the im­
pression from this that I am advocat­
ing that all books should be kept un­
der governmental supervision, nor that
public accountants should iot be al­
lowed to certify business accounts
without a United States registry. But
if a public accountant has his' reg­
istry number, and if the manufacturer
complies with the fundamental system,
then let the accountant make and seal
his certification in his capacity as a
United States registered accountant.
Establish such a system add to it
all that can be gained through co­
operation in trade associations, for
greater economy and intelligence in
production and distribution stabilize
our industry and increase our prestige
by taking advantage of the new legis­
lation for advancing foreign trade and
you have a- program *frhijh will pre­
pare American business to face thev
reorganized industries of .Europe.
As for the bankers, I am qertain that
they will carry out thelr purt with
honor,
