THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Local showers and somewhat cooler
to-day; to-morrow probably fair.
Highest temperature yesterday, 71 ; lowest, 60.
totalled weather, mall and marine reports on page 7.
he
7
iefctk
tin.
IT SHINES FOR. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 23.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916. CoPir.-07if,191.l the Sim Primly and ruoHanfnir A$,odatton.
ONE CENT
la (ireater Nsw Terk, I
Jersey City and Newark, I
KlMwhcr
TWO CENTS.
1ft 800 TE0T0NSIl4WroDEA",raoM
!jd,OUU IEiUIUHQ 5TH AVENVE MANSION
MADE CAPTIVES
ON THE SOMME
.U050 Prisonous Taken by
French Since Start of
Offensive.
BII1TISH KEEP IT
HAPAP3IE THRUST
Push Forward on One Mile
Front. Oocnn.vinjr TwoV
Trench Lines.
FKEXl'H TIGHTEN
nTT rtV nf1fTT VC! I ls
ItllU V-U.UIHilJO
Still'lll r Ol'lllied llOUSC 111
Outskirts of Village. Cap
turinsr Garrison.
Fni. .'Pi. i nc numoer ot ucr- i
in pri.-oneis capturej hy the l'rench t
is4 British In the Sonime battle from
July 1 to Sep:mb?r H aKHreKates more
"ian ;;.00, the Wnr Olllce announced
"i-nlRiit. Of this number 31.010. about!
five-elshlhs, were tahen by the French 1
iroops. t
HoDi armies galnid more successes to- ,
ty ov r the Hermans. The French '
rtp; Int8 the outsklrtj of Combles, o--upied
two Oerman positions and took
lu pilfoners. The Hrltlsh captured two 1
,ns of (ScriiMn trenches on a mil fiont
Ixtwctn Martlnpulch mid l-'lcrs, pushlns
'urtr toward Hapaume.
It It likely that a larser proportion n:
i (irman prisoners have bgtn cap
itfil .11 the la-l few weeks than In nnv
'.ltr period of the two and one-half
risths of the bii; offensive. Itipjris
ie o:ne from many souices of late,
'rjelal y from corrc-pondents on both
f'rer.ch and Hrltlsh fronts, that the tier
mm were surrend-rlns more readily
1 thtt their morale was weaker. In
1' ; b! Hrltlsh attacks last week the
fitmaii. abandoned l.ire iiuantltlrs of
ipplles and arms and tan from one
Tipcli line to another.
r.tplolt f rrrnrh rwiuinn.
One of to-day's Fr, uch :xp!olts W the
S'ltiirn frlmtes of Combles shows the
c. -eater ease with which prisoners are
.ndt, A French company was able to
.pt'jr an Isolated house whlca t'.i"
d. rnur.s had strongly organized and (ie
t'nln with machine kuiis In armored
emplacement. Yet one French com
pany captured there three olMccrs and
.'") rrlaoners. A little fuithcr east. Just
"JUiile Combles. the French captured
iral trench fitments and forty prU-',i,
1
The French ttoops nro ready, ns soon .
H tho Hrltlsh preparatlot.s are Mulshed. I
0 attack thu Importan: vlllnK- of 1
ComlilM Itself, They control all of the
MUthcrn and most of the eastern sldu of
tc town, and are at most places within
M yards of It. Th lliitlMi, to the
rst and northwest, are not so near.
The French statement to-night says:
South of Hancourt an enemy attempt
to Itav.' I. Is trenches was stopped by
0'ir curtain of fire.
TVre was the customary cannonade
n the run.ilnder of the front to-day.
Aviation lntr.tiB Thursday one of
e'ir iieroplanes dn.pped on thu aviation
nd at Hahshelm (u-iper Alsace)
c.it bombs of 120 calibre, which hit
1 ir.r Iliuriv. wo eiH-niy iit'rupiaiit; w.r, .
bromht down by one of our pilots lu
an .ilr tight between Combles and
Uorval. I
Counter AtlncU Fall.
Tin. morning the Germans advanced
'caln to the attack against the new
''rrnch positions between I.e Prlcz Farm
r..l Hancourt, a front of little more than
1 mile. The French cut tain of tire ,
i sto uie ussauiiinn imtiiuij mm hk) 1
.itmiiv, in huillll Uluiui- t" to''
rt.rhs whence they started, leaving
many ilead and wounded.
The Hrltlsh advance was made during
'In nlsiit. Its aim was to straighten out
ie hue between Flrs and Martlnpulch,
wlili h marks tho nearest approach to
hapaume, the great British objective,
tow only a little over four miles away.
Here the Hrltlsh attained their aim, nnd
tlitir line now runs "approximately on a
direct lino north of the two villager,"
iays the ofllclal btatemelit.
In th Arras salient, north of the pres
'.t flghtltig nrea, there was another of
Hrltlsh trench raids that have been
''0'1'4'nt there of Into and have aroused
'Jii'ifltv as to whtther another Hrltlsh
''ml.e m form was In preparation. The
Hrltlsh troops that entered the Herman
"fn. a- took prisoners and Inlllctcd
mualiies.
nrltlsh Make Gnln.
Mji-c Hrltl'h gains on the Snmme front
v announced In to-night's Matement, as
lo, iti
T"oav there was a heavy artillery
' hy both sides and Isolated actions.
'V courso of which wo Improved
positions and pushed forward de
ls 'iments In (iovcrat Uliectlons.
Them wan great aerial activity yes
lrdjy (Thursday). In the courfco of
fi flshtlng two enemy machines were
Jetitiujed. and another was forced to
a'l lu a damaged condition.
reporting military operations! In
I'nnen the Herman offlclal statement l
'Mil to-day saya:
Apart from lively artillery and hand
Krenadn engagements on the Hommo
""'1 In the Mcuso teglon there Is noth
ing to report.
KAISER ON KOVEL FRONT
A'rlrea la Volaynla on Kve of
lllndenbara'a Drive.
, Londw, Sept. 2S. Kaiser Wllhelm
iaj nrrlverl at the Kovel front, In Vol
'vnla. and It Is believed Von Illnden.
'"ir Intends to begin a big German of
fcnilvft there, according to despatches
'torn Copenhagen, lltrlln despatches re.
Ivsri there say the Itusalana have
's.ikciied their linen to send reenforce-
lii'lltt to Itumanhi
n one part of the Kovel sector the
Continued on Tnlrd Pai.
Crazed Man Invnilos Home of,
Mrs. Wonnser and Jumps
From Fourth Floor.
IleaMcnts of tlio Mod: In Fifth avenue t
1iftu'nm Rlvtv. fifth nml KWt v.l vtti '
onMn'K
Airs. Isidore Wormser house at 83G. I
balance for a moment, then plungo tn . i
lhTi5?r5S2;Btd.i m .ho 1vtM,v,cr.anl(V'''stndireetAidtoOer.Poliomyelltis Ts "Suspected"
Hospital two hours later, after having
momentarily recovered sufficiently to
s.iy lie vvna Thomas Kenny, a laborer, of
I l.i Miilmv iivftiue. The Hronx.
Mrs. Wormser Is In the country and
I ber housu whs In charge of tbree maids
and ttio butler, Nicholas Halsdorf. All
wero In the basement when they heard pcllon of world's supply of tonnage 1 peons a saddened mother carried the
a crash of glass at the front door. They , ,. . .... . , . .. . t ...... . . .....
van to tho front hall, to be confronted aM " result of the opi rations of the hub- blanketed figure of a lamo child from
by a man wild eyed ar.d dishevelled. ' marines of the Central Powers will be her front door to an ambulance yester
The stranger went lip the stairs two , met by an Increase In stringent measures day. Outside the double line of blue
,eps a; a vime. vviiu me miner aiiu
lieel.; Tl,., i.titl.lu !...
screaming Into
the street, and soon police whistles wetc
blown from th! upralei windows of
nearly nil the neighboring houses. I
! th imhKalSMS U0trhat'rof Jolm w! '
Herbert and next to It the home of
Frank .1, f'.nuld. William Guggenheim
nt M1-1"- William Watts Sherman
lives ut iS, w
nuc ill .no la 1110 v inrciu
Astor mansion. Kmv of the owner have
et returned to town.
When the Intiuder reached tho fourth
"our ",R ,,,i,ui' ,',KU "einn.i. ai tne'
.luad of the last lllqlil of stairs Kenny
last flight of stairs Kenny ,
1 .1 .,., .. ..r ......- !
..,,.. ..m, .. smv- " ' .
llalsdorf cot him Into a bedroom at
tho front of tho bouse. The butler
poured a iass of w.ter ,,d Kenny swai-
'"Mi mi 111 ii rtui hi 11 - irv.-
. fum(. dresser c.iUKht his eye.
I Any poison In those-: ho cried.
1 rn
crssy and want to die."
.Not whiiiiik lor an answer, lie jumped
to the window and leaiied, barely mlsiti
ratiolman Frederick l.ohmpjer.
LAWS MAKE SUFFS
TRUE PERIPATETICS
, .urd Uobett said that the answer of
(treat llrltaln to the American C.ovcrn-
Park Demonstration Likely tolJ't .i!
Keep Prineipals and VW- : rthAmn'ican ytA S rcBa"!o
ton. on the .lump. !ISMS A":"1 "V ",e lMm"
tVi sons attcr.dlr.K the ruffrase .lemon,
stratlon In Central I'ark this afternoon
should come piep.ired to do a lot of 1cb
work. The teohnlcalliles of the law,
w'ltcli make It IlieRiil to sIhr In one spot
and nil riKht In another and wrong to
speak wliere hliiRlne Is allowable, and
so on, will force tho weary votes for
wonvin workers to bavo a peripatetic en-
teitnlnment.
Anxious not to offend the wishes of
t'ark Ciiinilssli.ner C.ibot Ward, they
Hkvi - planned a unite lor the tableau.
which .lie Commlssii..t.r says muKtn't i.e
called a tableau, brltiRlns every dlffe-ent
part of the entei talnment strictly within
the law.
Music l rcn mi the Malt, so at ::3n
l'. M. the sufTiase trunuieters will Rhe a
concert In tho Brand rt.ind. Spe.ikliiB
l. lllecol there, s., when the oomert ends
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt will lead the
audience. If It will Ko. to a spot outside
,,.ri.- m sf vn!v....n.i ire..i and
nark nt Sf vent v.. second street and
Fifth avenue and there ma'.tc ,1 speech
aKHlust the dlsfranchlFenieiit of her sex ,
T!,0 j.,ie.,kltiK will be followed by the
tnhleau only don't call it thal--of the ,
f0,tv.e'aht Slates but Just where that
wm't tj,0 worried sutTs cannot announce
i.f,v,,,,i t,. n.,nn.in 11, n ti,n
a. -..ii 1. .n, , ...
find some irreen mi, t in the pari; where
It can entertain and enlighten the nubile
without breaking tlie law. Hot the. are
nil "etttnc out t'.ielr easiest shoes in '
anticipation of haviiiB a parade wished
on then. Instead of the -anvthlni; lint '
tublcau they planned. '
Whatever comes, the New Voil; State
Womatt Suffrage party, which Is aftthu;
up thu aft'nlr as a pattern for tho na
tionwide celebrations of Federal amend-
iv..,.... ..
. . ,' ' ;h. lllo , .
"""tU "' "uc '"c
nnd SI, Is deter-
I TRAIN HITS WAGON; KILLS BOY.
Another I.ml InJnretl When Home'
llnlka nt Crosnlng.
I.lNPCN. N J.. Sept. 2S. One boy was
k),P(Ii another badly Injured and a third
i,jW). escaped w lien the A'lantlc city
tiler on the Central llallroad of .New
Jersey struck a grocery wagon in which
the three lads were tiding late this after-
noon. Two of the lads Jumped, but the to-night, but with little, hope of flndlnr; Hy, for be said:
third boy remained on th" wagon abd t,,. Miner. 1 "Mv tllasnosls In tliut the cliild b.m no 1
was killed when It was upset as the I.lngerl.i lived here with his wlfo and 1 trace of pollomjclltK nnd I slick to that:
train sped by. two children. Neighbors saw- him go 1 diagnosis, nr. Thomas J. Flynn and.
The dead liny Is Henry Hanson. Jr.. 10 nto thu fcticet this allernoon and meet , Dr. l.uwihnii. whom 1 called In for con
years, of Vv ood avenue. The Injured lad ( a m,ln w)lo a stranger to them, Tlie I sultatlon. arrived nt the Kitm, ronclii-,
In the Elizabeth (.eneral Hospital Is
Charles I.ohilr."., 15 yeais
Ife Is In
serious condition
lion, lnlir, Xfnvu 14 nt
LVrsei Tremlev pldni
s-reet, irenilev I olnl. cm-
J'"".'.,.. . . , ,i
Seventeenth
caiien juiiinii.
l.oiioen was cuving, nun worn lie
,,,,...,1 ,,. .nrk- l.tlUed Inst.
' . rho file? ca n along The i orso v-a,
a tlio lllei catut tiioni.. 1 1 e no so was
"" """ ""r
-
PUTTING GREEN SOD SOARS.
, fl.llOO Paid for frn.. oil Five
!)l.rr .VI rail hit llolea.
Sod Just plain gras.t with Its mots
brought what l bellevtd lo have been
. Its record vr!''e vvheii Uie Hyker Meadow
' ....i. ,,..,. ..... t, i.nn r..n u..,l i.t ,1.
ttuii Mini hut vt" ."" ... ..-
tilting Bieens on Its lltooklyn enur.o
ftom tho Field and Marine Club of tho
samo borougli. vvorumtn were busy
yesterday transferring tho sod from Ita
r.y. hnine In Its new
Olll nome to IIS nev.
Tho Field nnd Mailne Club recently
ndded nine boles to Ita course, taking
over four from Iho IJyker course, part
of which was cut up when tho Poly
technic Instlluto bought a site for Its
day school, und laying out live new
ones, on which tho putting green sod la
to hi plnced.
Ordinarily It lakes years to get good
putting greens, which must bo coddled
ns carefully us Jlrooklyn's favorite rub
her plants. Hut by purrhunlng tho well
developed Dykcr nod the Marino club
believes It has found a short cut to good
putting greens.
Mipress Ploughs Through Uondola
IltaHr.nTBn, N. Y Bept. il. Two
westbound freight trains on the Now
York Ontral met in rear end collisions
east of llntnviu early to-day Just as
Pullman passenger train No. 48. the
Detroltcr, was passing easthound. A
gondola was thrown across the passenger
tracks ' and the Detrolter ploughed
through it. All the Pullmann In the train
wero damaged, but nobody was Injured.
Traffic was delayed several hours.
BRITAIN TO CONTROLiDOCTORS RAID HOME
SHIPPING OF TOLD1 TO GET LAME BABY
Minister of Wnr Trade Tells :
of More Stringent Measures
to He Ktnnlnved.
0N THK WiACKMSTIMOTIIEl. C1IA1.GKS THICK
many by Neutrals Will
lie Fought.
i
Lonpon-. Sept. "2. The continued dc-1
1,.. ,.1,1.,, ,,, .,.,. Allies ,i,,;i, ,
' , ,, , , ,. , ,
control shlispliig, so ns to Insure It being
used to the btst advantage of the Allies
and prevent It even Indirectly aiding their
Pomnts. according to a Matement made
to-day by Lord llobcrt Cecil, Minister of
War Trade.
I.t,ld llfthert admitted that even the
present r.ito of deduction, without con-
slderlni; the possibility ot a M-sumptlon
of unreMrlcteJ Hllbmiirlllfi warfarr. mcnttt
a serious loss to the world's tonnaBe.and
i.1!U ..ni,sei,oei,tlv It could not be ex-
.V. no , lv 11 . 0, 1.1 nni be ex-
r . V'".- . . .. ......
pecteu imil lint ln co.11 or ohit jiriun
fttcllltlen should bo expende.l on tlilp-
..arrvliie coods n, blaci.llst, d tlims. The
,,' Vvui "iVease ,i,;ir shh,-.
nmi iiip.itirpi wiiiin iiirt'iiiiv iiri' iiifit.
In valuable, in makliiB tbu best iim ot i
axul able tonnaKC In the same iiroporllon i
,lr) (jiTmana
succcci in ucairuioKi
merchant ships.
"impreted .rulril" llnrreil.
The Minister of War Trade said that
as a matter of roaro tlio l.nlcnto .ius
would be favored us recards the use
of tonniiKo and that neutri'ls eiiB.iKiil
lu Knteittc iillied trade or In unsuspected
neutral tradu would be nlv.n tho next
consideration. Neutrals suspecKd of mi.
uxutr.il nets, he added, would not mjoy
the usual f.tclllth.
Irnde llnnl. I'lniineil.
KstablNbineiil of 11 Hrltlsh trade bank
with a capital of Jlo.OUO.oOo was recom
mended to-day by a coininnttee of which
Haion Farlnadon, chalrmin of the (Ircat
Central Hallway. Is tin head.
Tao committee was appointed to con
sider the best totalis of mcrllnB the ,
needii of HrltMi tlrms after tho war,
with particular letc-teneo to llniinc'iic
la rue oerses contracltt. It niKotn 1
that tho proaid bank could It 1 1 the
Bai between tbe Homo Iritu.s anil l ie
.lonlal and ffelKH I'.ritls.i Ho liltlt.ot"
and il vclop feedifes not pro". Iilcd by
tbe pi eseitt s ..ten .
Wasiii.vi.to';. Sept. II. --Such a bank
as Haron F.triiiKdon's cointnittce proposes
Is one i,f tho most Important featuies of
the recently publish, d jdnu of the l.otnlun
number of commerce for iiritisn traue
domination after the war.
AIohb with ti e scheme to UIMile tin"
nations of 1110 v.onu iuoiib ,'conomic lines,
sep.Hited by tariff wall", us allies,
friendly neutrals. uiifilrmUy neutrals
and enemies, tin, central lank was
recommended In the ihattrber's report as
essential ta the nnl!lcat."n of Hrltlsh 1
economic power. It was susKtslcd that
capital for the li.mlt be raised Jointly by .
the Uovirnment and th branch banks 1
and thu nlllces be est.ilillshed wherever 1
tlecrSsaty. especially III me coinnles
which have not cn'trnl Innklnc houses
and lu Kusla,
whete It was snid tli
Idea of iloser
tlnnuclil relation.- with
ImKl ind had Ik en rntliusiaslle.illy u-
Celved.
While nellh' r Haron Farlncdon'11 pro
Pokai imr mat ui uie i inrnwr or 1 0111
mere" has been mlopted by the Hrit'.sh
(ioverntnent, grent sienillcar.ce Is nt
tnilied to them by 1. tibials hero as in
dicating the trend of economists in i:nB
land, who nrc piepuitiB for after the
war trade conditions.
ZX-C0NVICT STRANGELY SLAIN.
Anniitlntln l.lnxrrln Mint by
itlelillrlril VI 11 11 In WmiHi,
I'll-
Tl-ci.-Alliu:. N V.. Sept. SS. Aimuzl-1 ...
atta l.lngerla. nr.. an ex-.convict. was shot Ir William A Smith of Spritiglleld
and kill."! by an unidentified man In the'U I.. Mild last night that ho miulhlred
woods adjoining this town late this after-' with the Health Department's ditllcultles
noon while a thlrtecn-yrar-old boy looked ' In dealing with the epidemic, but that he
on. The nolle., nre scouring tho woods
two shook hands and s.ivn tho imnressbm
of having met after 11 long separation.
m . . . "
Tl,?'v "M"i'i1 l,,,J 'f "',"""' , ,,r:"'l: ,0'
Kclher and then slrnlled Into th" woods.
Cuthbeit llaRirdown. a boy gathering
cuthbeit llaRirdown, a boy gathering
nniK il... nnin,.- n,t r.,i, . ii, . n.
. . .
,l",1''',l's,","t' , c ,
l.lugM'ia served live years In Sing Sine
lor cxiorilon lu llrooUlyn. lie wan ie -
n-.ist-ii in i i i i,.. iipi,'areu ,o nave
money, for t'.e police say he had not I
worked for a long fine. i
LONG ISLANDER IS WAR HERO.
11. A. llarnlinll. Winner of Croai,
rilug for I'rnnee.
fiprriitl Cable Htrwtrh lo Tin: St n
I , ,.L.,'.. "T'tol , . .vuierican
'"".V''" '",'' " . : 11 a '.V 11
to the Hying corps. Ho Is H. ,, Jlnr-
; ', . '
He
I 1 " 'nco uiin ii ,.,, uni.ni .inn, iicillg
l.-,.nel, i,,ei,l..ue w,,u nlln,...l .
Join a lino regiment Instead of the
Foreign I.eglon.
He served in this regiment for nine
teen months, and was In much fierce
tl-litliig. Hehind Hols X Prctre, while
his regiment was resting, ho was seen
throwing stones with remarkahln ac
curacy, because of his baseball ex.
perlence. He was promptly iiindo a
bomb thrower.
One dny lnt spring, ns his officers
wero anxious for Information that could
be gained only by questioning Herman
prisoner, Marshall volunteered to cap
ture ono single handed, llo went that
night very near the llcrmnn lino and re
turned loading hla Herman by tho ear.
Thus be earned the War Cross, nnd has
been cited In orders for excellent work
nt Verdun.
Actor Jumps Ilrfore Subway Train.
Despondent because of poor health,
Ijouls Kelso Urennnn, 35. an ncior, living
at the Hotel Homerset, killed himself yes
terday by leaping In front ot a subway
express train at the Heventy. second
street station.
Three M. D.'s, Hacked by 1:
Policemen, Take Jamaica
Child to Hospital.
When Woman llcfused
to Apologize.
Through a lane of policemen nnd.sur-
,, , , .,.,. ,.,(...
v....... ....... .is .
of the law a l;not of barn headed,
iiproned women brandished tolling pins
ad broom"
..Uon.t lcV them talie ,he ,,. pw(ly
,,PV iouted.
Hut Mrs. Anton Anderson of ISO New
York avenue. .lamalca. had clven up.
overan, ,,. he add... tricked, she
,,cr,,tt(.rt licr fnn ,toV,crti ,om, old.
t, t. ibti m rjiintlinrn Itnunltn!.
. . t .1 . . . . - .. - 1 i ..1.1
1 nree l''"'-'""'
.1. r ,1m Iv.ln- h.nl lie.
"
velopcd a iOIbIU and temporary !nme-.
i ; ' ? nt V' , JZ"JBt
...... ... i.. ....... .. t... i..,i ..mnitiifiu i
. k . . . Thur-J.iy. they returned yes- I
... ... ,, , i,. ,v, ..1,11,1 nw.iv. 1
1nnin,eil lloor In Ilopor' rcP.
This Is the RlJit of Mrs. AndersonV
,'lory:
Mr. llarrv Schnchbr. who lle near
her. told her estcnlay that If she
would teb'phime to lr. Simon Tannen
b.iinn. chief i,f health centies In
gucciis, and iipuIorizo for slaminlliB
tile iloor lu tho faces of Ir. Joseph
Cohen anil Miss Williams, a nurse,
when they came to lo r home Thursday,
she could' keep the b.ihy.
"I have nothhiB fcr which to apolo-
Klze." fhe r plied.
Miss Itulh Joliason. her slsler. was
In the kitchen half an hour later heii
a policeman stepped thtouch the door.
which for the II m tl lurliic the
day hid been left open. He was, Sol
lowed hy a dozen ether blmvoats. 1 r.
.lames C Sharp of (Jueensboro
Ib'-p'tal. Dr. Taiineiib.iutn. lr. I.h
(an interne) and a nuii-e
ThrentenuiK arict If she Interfered,
trey tiled past Miss .tolniMin to nil up
per bedroom, whero Mrs. Anderson was
playing with the baby.
"We have n warrant to tahe this
child." said one of tlum, but accordion
to Mrs. Anderson, they did not show
th" document, "I yielded with the best
Brace I could." she says. "1 helped
the nurse IHmdle ltohert up In blankets
and I carried him msclf to Mu am
bldnice. Tl'o neighbors would bae
ruhed on the police, I do IHlew, If
n v niie isse had been carrjlus
It belt."
( hlld's fnlber I'lnn I.h,ts,iI.
The boy's father has retained !..
rei.ee T. i,reser, all .ittottoy, to nl
tute court action 10 cot tfo cnlld nacli
nonie ami 10 no wnaiever eis. sc. ins ;oi.
visalile in ,1 legal way. .Muleison W .11
ex-ert 'ibluettn iker and lives with lil
wife and tlireo child rut tn a comfortable
home. Their family physician Is lir. !
William A. Smith of Spring-field. 1.. I.
11" and two physicians he called mto
consultation are said to acrec that the.
child has no sIbh of infantile p.iralvsis.
l'-. .lames C. Sharp at Omensboin
iiiriiiuii i.isi. iukiii wmn aieu iur mi
virf on of the incident reiuiikcd he hud
tit'thl' to rt late.
1 "Tl.e patient cime In to-day." he said.
"The 1110 her tiiiiifd the child over to us
u;i 'eiliiy. We are not permuted
to b!c "'.it information here, but, on tlio
o!l,
0 101. vi- nave noinnig 10 ronce.11.
Hi.'ef e I would lefer ou to Hr. Tan-
liei,....uio ilettrd government of this city has
In- T.nne 'aim denied last night t,.r,jiod aside and given way to a gov-
th.it Mis And, in.jti h id bt en told he 1 1 rnnn-'it composed of live men.
could kctp 1 ie cnild if she would apo'.o-1 "These live men aie Theodore T
'glze lor si'utt.ng out the ihvsloiaiis. Shunts, Frank lledley, .lames Whltrldge,
, "l'heic Is nothing to that." he said. ' .lames Quackenhush anil l.o f. Hergoff
"I cannot tl.i.cuss tiio c.tso any furtner The vvNh of thtse men to-day Ij the law
; thin that. Wo are not allowed to give of New Yotk city. The police force of
lout any Infotmatloi. I simply had or- the cliy N at their command. The
jdeis to remove the case, and I did so." t .Mayor. Ills cabinet and th" Hoard of AI
, ib linen have ceased to operate to all In-
"Chlltl llami'l Trner of Ulapimr."
also sympathized with the Anderson fam
nlm, Indoncndentlv. Tin, vouiwster Is
' remarkably healthy. He Is a little lame
i . 10..1 .. ..
1,1 ono im'u Tnc I'-""1'"-"" en" 'law'
I beet, caiuterl by a fall or o bump against
a rlinlr. That Is how serious It Is."
a rlinlr. Th
.. i. .... ..
iiepe.iii-ii riioiin ii, ,,,n i.i, tuvrij
Schneider failed. Hr. Haven IJn.e.son
s.l.l he had nsi vet received no renort of
, ,,,c case.
LANSING DENIES PARTY TIFF.
Not al Odds With Wilton Ailvlsers
Over netallalnry Art.
Washington-, Sept, S2, Secietary
Lansing denied to-day that thelc wa.i
any difference of opinion bet w ten him
self ami tho President's political mUls
era as to whether llio retaliatory leglsla
lion alined at the Knlentti Allies In the
revenue bill was legally sound and en
forceable. "Tho Slate Department has;
reached no conclusion In the matter," he
said.
Mr. Lansing was careful to make It
clear that the State Department did not
wish to go on record now oim way or
tho other, us It had so far reached no de
cision as to whether tho legislation could
be enforced or not. It was said some
olllclals of tho department believe, that
part of tho legislation Is of doubtful
legality and unenforceable.
FEW BETS ON ELECTION.
Ortila In Financial nlslrlrt Ilrmaln
nt 1! to I on lliiKhes,
Few betH on the oiitcomn of the elec
tion were reported In tho financial dis
trict yesterday nnd those placed were
mainly for M00 nnd J.'iO. Tlio odds con
tinued to remain at " lo 1 lu favor of
Hughes, with the Wilson backers seeking
even better terms wherever they believed
there wan u chance of Betting them.
Kdward McQundo and U J. Ktokes
each reported they had lln.ooo to bet on
Hughes at I to 1,
UNIONS ORDER 750,000 TO QUIT WORK;
FIGHT FOR CARMEN BEGINS SEPT. 27;
N Y. FEARS WORST INDUSTRIAL BLOW
MAYOR ASSAILED BY
C. F. H: DELEGATES
Meeting at Labor Temple Sus-
tains Committee of (53 in
Strike Itesolutions.
About mo delecatrs from union amal
gamated with, the Central Federated
I'nlon nninlmously and vociferously
adopted laM nlcht resolutions nassed by
tho commltteo of sKtyllvo earlier In the rrsotir.i of crdanlnod labor said jes
day calllis,- upon them to -tart a Reneral tl,:" ",rc " P""""'''- f'"- '
strike no.Nt Wednesday, If.icleri to make tlitir wall.otlt 100 pei
The live committeemen from the Cen- cent, effect! w the city of New Yorl
tral KriWatcd I'nlon aivieared before the (mM l.. dven the severest economic
ileleaatcM In Labor Temple, In IJi
LiKUiy-tourin ureet, nl reporlec. tne
'a."- li'u'l,ul'''.
nd a half Him fn
I l tl 41 1 'II (It t'U, UU t Illf I
itos 5trnt two
"bUvnlv Hvp" ih thov rnll...l Ihn tr.it-
I'nn lw 1 ilti mi a tli a il tv admltt tat r- n 1 1nn
. w " 'V"' . " T. 1,..
. " ..... r...... ....... .v
lh i!ieer power of their own vindictive-
, T1(v ,,, lo utilie. and do It
' 7 ' ,,e ry..Vo X'JX. .
u . .. r i...... . it it . .
be consld.-r.'d only as "scraps of paper,
I .No co-tracts or otiier iiBrcement
bo alloived to hold them to work.
. m.irjiiM nr ..dior ivrnmiHiia nmil.t
Mii'iir 1 Arnmefl.
: Tin- strike of T30.ono workmen would
not be wholly In svmpathy for the
! carmen, others declared frankly. It 1
j would be 11 challetiKe to the city ad
nunl'lration. Maor Mltchel and Ids
advlseis, lucIudltiB l'ollco Coiuinlsslnner
' Woods, were licensed of halliK sold out
to tin, traction men.
"Fpnii the I'litillc Set vce Commission
to the .Mayr thev have lied to us from
t',e heBiniilus." shouted S.i'iiuvl Martin
of the outtel.s' union.
l..le;te Cll.idwlek of th Flllted
Hatters I'nlon referred to them as "little
t.n Mm' dressed lu 11 little brief au
thority "
' Miisce llinehey, suffraei't and Wo.
men's Tt.nles I.c.lBUe speaker, told
how she and oiVr woni.n had r'dden on
elevuted trains maiiiiB sashes that
read "Pon't He a Scao." In spite of
RuanK and oo'ice. She nrced raisins an
at my of in.onn women to spread the
work, to sit on tint tracks outside the
tar barns, and to ro to Jail If necessary
"until the Jails are full so they ain't
cram any more In."
. ()n by one a score of deleRates cot
. up and promised that their organizations
; would obey the 1.1II t strike. Samuel
Martin of the outlets' union declared
that wh'le all the garment wnrkrts
niluht not bo out the rutin, ti.nrto cut
ters In the Industry would, ami this will
(ffei iually tie up tho entire process of
manufacture Milliners, b.iker.,, brass
workers and similar trades were pledged
one after another
Thou tho ineetliiB broke up lit drib
lets, some tcturnltiE to their locals to
report the action of the meetltiB and
others' stayhiB to talk further, for the
delcK.ites must report to their locals,
where the Dual decision will be made
whether to obey the call or not. Thl
individual decision will be returned to
the committee, of sixty rho at the Hotel
Continental by Wednesday morning.
Appenl tn Public.
, .v., nnneal was made tn the nubile.
' tc.lll li.V tlte SCTeiary. l.rnes; iiooill.
and indorsed by the dtloRute. it read
n ,art ;
"To the public
, "This citv ! under the control
- Kovernment by men win, are not tax-
, pavers of this ntv, who have not t'een
. elected to nnv oft ice. and some or w 110111
,;lre not even residents of thl city. The
, tellts and purposes
"No person I- safe, and every person
,,.,0 wniks Is In cni.stant danger of los.
! lnK completely every right and privilege
' fo. 0 ,nve fought so long. We
. c.,n upon tho entire city to rid New York
of this despotism for once nnd for all.'
B. R. T. EXPECTS TROUBLE.
co ol,t.
I Hear IMeUetn Will sek ItrooUljn ( .v,n Industries are ainid .it In the gen
i..,lk. nm.lt. T.dr. ral strike and hardly on.; will I escape
I
. ,.... ...,1.. . . .
jamcs.v. Illllou, I 11. ire lositrior, sill-
t loiied In Hrooklvn mnde elaborate ar -
, tl""1 1,1 HrooKin, mnde eiapinaie ar
I rangements last night for the use of ic-
. ... . , ..t n. u i, t
sen en .,i inv n i .....-. ...
at, thc corporation organized it force of
' . ...
. " ""
; the teport, apparently vvcll groundcil,
that large delegations of pickets from,
I the Amalgamated Carmen's Fi.Mn Hi ,
1 Manhattan and The Hronx would appear '
I at the Hrooklvn bams early this morn-'
lug and call the M. H. T. men out In sytn -
,,.,ibv.
tl,.. rennrt th R It T cot was that
, ... it . i
un; pun, nan itoi hi no-. ..........j ...
., l't-nfi- rf.-irl Im Ii, i.e tortile
' "' '
to keep them fiom obstructing the car -
men on their way to their Jobs.
Another rumor waH that tho P.. It. T.
men. dissatisfied with the recent Increase
In pay given them, have been organizing
secretly.
aviator sinks submarine.
Anstrlnns llraeiie Crew iif Ihr I'iiii-
.......
mult In Ihr Adriatic.
Hunt.lN by wireless to Sayville, Sept
22. The French submarine Foucault has
been sunk lu tho southern Ailtiatlc by
bombs dropped from an AustrnOluiiRii
i Lin naval nreoplnne. Tho Austrian Ad
miralty to-day announced the details as
follows :
"The aeroplane's pilot was Lieut.
MaIa........ t.nil II... oltMervei mi. 1 .lent
von Kllmburg. The entire eievv of the
submarine, eompileing two otllu rs and
V..... nr ...i..., ..
drowning, were rescued and made pi is.
oners. Half nn hour later thc Im-
prisoned crew wan taken over by n tor.
pedo boat, while tho two olllceia were
transported to land on the naval aero-
piano."
TRADE PARALYSIS
SEEN IN A TIEUP
(ieneral Strike Would Cut Off
Food Supplies and Stifle
Kutertainments.
l.oohlnK forward to the execution of
tho Central Kcderated I'tiloti's threat of
n general syinpathetle strlUe In alt trade
text Wednesday persons acquainted with
blow In Its history: the fooil supply would
i. fcriousiy curiaiied: transportation of
.ill sorts would be demoralized and lit-
.bury would come virtually 10 a stand-
" No one believed the sympathetic strike
t'l'inrritnilirb
mendm!,' hnrmfutforco wWch'miBh,
1 r Z , ,'oiace
!"!mcnonrMrike?nmrly ",'rform'', ,,y ,,,e
wunt woaid n.ppen.
Mere nro some of the thinKs which
would happen If the labor men made'
Rood their boast to take the Tin.ooo
101100 iwiriMiien 111 ..-.. .-v.. .v....
from tinir positions:
1 .. , ,.. .... ..At. -vm.. I'K I
curta'ibd i.y the strike of tne miiu
miBoii drivers. ,
The ni.inufaclute of bread, cakes and
other confections would drop at
once through the strike of tho ba
kery and confectionery workers.
With the union rooks, pastry cooks
and expert chefs on strike hotels,
cafes and lestaurants would ho se
(relv handicapped In seivitiB the
public.
The hotels would bo further embar
rassed by the fact that practically
all thui men eiup'oyees arc niem
ht'rs of one union or another,
Itutchers nlo arc well orBaliled In
New Yotlt and ttie public would find
It dlttlcult to Rel at.
Plenty of provisions could be Im
ported, but the teamsters anil truck
men would be on strike, maklns their
transportation within the city some-
nf it nrohleni.
Mllmlnatlng the transportation prob
lem, the hotels and restaurants would
not be niuc'i better otf, for their
waiters have unions and would not be
the'.- to nirvc -he meal- The in.nl
waiters hivo an exclusive union o.
tlie.r own. ,
The strike not only would curtail tbe
food supply tn bo re, hotel arid rest.tu
1 an? but would largely slmt off tliedrinl:
supple as well. The btewety workers
ami brew erv dtlvers wotiid bo out. and
with theni the bartend' rs. Tho
bottlers would be included.
strike I, ruder OlidnrMe
- most ,l. tenn.lie,l
most 'o.1"'";'1
"1U? i eh
The strike leaders arc
... .... 10, (tie trades on
liortatlon companies the lnterborougli.
he New York Hallways and the S-nm
MJK X
th'
and
mit'rnl loo.
men. harbor boatmen, nargenien. i.,.-..-dores
and stationary llremen. They are
..ti ..m.r.., ,,..,1 In simnlviiig tne companies
with the necessary fuel, except tlie nr.-
men who are employed In the power
houses.
It Is the aim of the labor men to stop
' nil building and construction won.. ine
. exixct to do this through tne walkout i
brlcMavers. plasterers, masons, steaml'.t-
ters, plumbers, gas litters, marble work-
ers, painters, decorators, tile and mosaic
layers, carpenters and Joiners and llled
ttades.
Huso etiBlneerliiB contract" would be'
held un by the lack of bridge and strue-,
tural iron workers.
It Is Intended also tn cripple the pub
lishing lnilustr, whose wot Union nrc
among the most hlKhlv orBanlic.l lu the
coun.rv. A walkout of the thousands of
printer's, pre-vmer. lithographers, clc-
','ntl ',i,,"u sonic of tin, larse-t
" 1 ,J,of" " ,. limlsc, , .
V, 'iV,,s
1 1 '! ' ',,.mlrM, nj,i..n l,,,s been
. ' , ' -ubwav nn,1 elevated
ir.iiviiers. naoto.e igra vers 1,1 10,1-
lines by the demoralization of 'he rtir-
face traffic will be greatly increased ir.
as Intended, the cab drivers, the coach
1 men and hackmeti and the taxi drivers
If the unions
mi call out the men. op
l" "." "". . ... 1.. I. 1I..U
I RiinlzeU l.llior IlilK locnnn o 01 ii'i-
1 men In almost every trade-metal work-
. men in ., ..lasllcatlotis.
L,, , ,, . Mot:e.
i ' ' . . . '. r. .-I.-
..j ,ne lea-l ciniinii, t."i
' point of the movie fi.,u.'i.ter will I.e the
iirlU. nf the ni.iclilne mieralnrs. who
jave ul,rid t
together with the rest.
V telegraphers' still.e wniild be dldl-
cult to mike effective utiles It weie
general outside the city, but p; ,n:''
nc cuiinno ..o ... h
.. . TrM,P,
Principal TrHiles.
; , eslunste by St crel.iry llrnest Hohm
of the Central 1-eiietalrtl i nioii oi ine
number of men In the principal trades
which will be called nut follows:
n,)nB Trntlea .Vllltliee
lluriiirlit tvnrker....
10(1.101
si, ono
7.ii in
;,"nl
7 nini
;ii,(,ii,i
M.llOll
1 '..nun
11.011
I '..miii
.i, nun
i',00,1
(,,0110
l.inl'l
.V.rtini
;.,umi
,, nrt.i
Vmni
T) .,iihi'iil iinlmi
1 MarhlnUta
"ff,,,',,,. V. 7.. ' .
Tunnel and uh:i cuuitniemr. .
!,".. i,rJ 'r'. l".y.'.lll .1
, l.iitir.hn-eiiii'li
, llnusn shnrerit
I llnii.e reekers
i ,t.,.-.
' lll.ll'liendeltt bikers
j; 'll-ryl'1,,r.,"1",,,.r :..'..:
, I'lreineii nnd enalnerrs
Mu.lil.ins . . 'i""'
1 .viarino eiiKin-r". inmo i"i ,, ,
,, I'tiknomv
Ml..'elt.inenila ir.tile. l..e,mMi
Not nil of Ihcsti arc
lu Hie Ct iiii.ii
Federated l nlou.
Snlivvny ( Iliiliue Opposed,
The report nf the Hoard of HsHmale's
bureau of contract supervision, nppns.
i.. n, ,,..!, Hon of a new mer.. inlni,
nhitfnrni to relieve rush lii.ni' conges.
lion at the Hinnd Ccnliat siibway sia
Hon. was rccelvrio.siri'iia.v n ine run.
in. si.ovlee iViiiin ss bin and referred to
Cnminlsslnner Travis H. Wliltney fnr
report at the next meeting, Hie report
said It would bo uuiuoesa,r to make
Hie proposed K.nnn change, lis the enn
j gestlou will be iclleved by the, Seventh
land Lexington avenue subwajs.
Millions of Tons of Freight for Allies
May Be Tied Up at Wharves and
Many Factories Forced to
Shut Down
GOMPERS TO
Representatives of 125,000 C. F. U. Members
Approve Action Building Trades Involved
-Richmond Trolleymen Make Demands
urders lor You.uoo men and women in isew iorK traaes
, . , , ... , . , . , , - .
to stop work next Wednesday were promulgated yesterday by
representatives of eighty unions.
They called it not a "strike" but a "suspension of work."
Nevertheless, if the individual members of the organizations
obey the order of their leaders,
proportions and the most far
Thousands of factories and mills will be forced to shut
down. Stores will be compelled to close through failure of
... , , .. . ,, , . , . ,
materials and deliveries. Vehicular traffic will come to an
almost complete standstill.
The
It will be as if the heart of New York had ceased to beat if
., , ..
tilC WOrKCl'S (JUlV.
"Organized Labor, Attacked, Must Fight Back.
"OiRunlzril labor has been attacked
and must lljjlit back," explained lliiijh
Fr.ijiie, Attn 1 lean I'Vdenitlon of Labor'
orR.tnlzer, who put tlio vote to the
loaders josterday.
Tho ciiiiiiuand for the cessation of
work Is based on tlio grievance' that
nu n of union limitations .'annot ride to
their employment except In curj
tiunnoii by non-union laborers and
under tho protection of police. This Is
Kiiillcient cause, to their minds, for the
, aweepltiB action.
Intllctlon of general st ignatlon on
New- York, Itrooklyn. Vonkers, White
Plalni-, IJtieeiiH and Tho Hronx Is in
reprisal for tho lefusal of the traction
ri mputiy heads to cnncillito their dif
ference,, win, !, Altl.ilgatll.iteil As.
r.allon, 1 tit i I tho railway operators
j yield to that union the suspension ,
continue, the lilmr lenders asserted
.vt.'lcril.iy.
Hy the vol.' the timor- are compelled
to the violation of compacts, treaties,
contracts, pledges and bonds. The Jeop
ardy of unionism on the ear lino 1- i.e.
jlleved by the labor leaders to Justify
lU",r l"!;'tb'ii of all .-iRicemeiits.
Hemlnder.. of t ies,- facts failed
""' !'". "-'r Votes They ref'u-'
', - ' e , ' e th ' a
.mops dcerrei, them.
"Irlkr" Voir nf so I. I'linnliiion.
The eighty men who aspmht., j,, t10
lloiei , ontinen'al yesterday afternoon
at s o'clock dwelt foe three hours upon
' ",' conseiiuenci s of Mich a strike as pro-
posfd. I'ravne read Hiem the nirss.ice
01 .vtayor .vilt, licl. He told them their
action might drmand the ue of harden, d
iroops j i: hack from the border. With
th,. situation fully l.efoie them, I'rayi.e
put the volt As m.111 after man was
called upon to bind his organization, he
pl"dgcd himself to the light. Not one of
the eighty, not even Julia Po.vntz, the
nnly woman pivsrtu she represented the
garmetil workers votetl In the negative
Afier tlie unanimous' sentiment lu.d
been recorded Mr. l'rajno met the to
porters. "Yoll fellows fo" live weeks have been
predicting a general strike," he said.
"ll,r" " luVl' ' 111 ,aM- "
n memo .,, ilun ,
-I-iKUty unions were repres
, M"," ,,J '"tciualional ..fflcers
!'"1""s '""J", " M'"diatta and
Hero , mi have It at last." He ie.nl
ented,
These
I The
Hronx, and Include the Hoard of llulld
ItiB Trades ami the central bodies of
iliraler New oil.
II nil. ilerl, Inl Ii) iinanlniim v vote
thai n general sii.it ii.iiii of nil vvnrk
lie itn hired In tirenler Ncvt York nml
vlrlnll), the saiiie In take effect
Wrilni'stlii), Nfiilember ST.
He sponsible for IIIk Wnlknnt.
Among those w',n hud vnted were:
,1 I' Holland, Cluuies C Miay, llrnest
Hohtii, James Sullivan and IMwnrd C.is
sidy, representini: the Cential Federated
t'ninh. Maui Ice de Y.uitis, John Cough.
1 1 ii. F. S. I'oiiliii, into Nichols and i teorgo
IMilllln.. I etire.ellltli' the HrnnUlVIl I 'oil -
, .(,)or ,-, M.IS Vmr. atid M.i
Abram-o of the I'nlted Hebrew Trades.
M in, hurt' and M. ioiun, I rum the Htmiv
I Hoaid of HUsliiess ABMits- J P. Tonip-
i , ..oses. nilno the Manhattan Hill il-
: n; Trail's Conn. 'I: Mnhael Cnllehe,
...i.(, i-acceiii and Thomas ntirien. iep
resenting the I ntei nalloti'il Tunnel
and
Subway Cntisti ui lors I nioii ; James
llnlee of the Intctuatlnlial Machinists
I'nlon, lM'viinl C livid i.i. ,i'pii'M'iitlPK
the Intel natlnn il T pngraphb'al Fnlon .
vti.ibew McConvilb of the SHHlonnry
and I'piight IhiRlticeis nml Firemen h i tn iheodore l'. snonis. pi esuieni ,t inn
I'nlnti nnd Timothy Hcaly of the llccen- Inin boi niigh and New Y"tk Ha ilw.us
trie Firemen's I'ninn Cicnpanv
Srci clary Itnlun of the Central red- "We have anticipated "nil an nil'
er.ilcd l'nlnii was aske.l If Ibeie was nny cniiic," In, said, "and have n,,ir,d
doubt liboiil Hie i espouse of any union i against It. We feel cm tain tin ncn
n the older )ln our niechnnlci'l ileparinient ' vi 11 h i
"Any union Ihn falls In suspend work cnjinlly as loal as the men of ibe Init i
will lu' lecatiled as a traitor, he said,
And will be l old out of all altllia-
tlniis," added anotlrr leader.
I iilmi Hen lu Ve I'nlon Cnr.
"What will vnu il" abnul those unions 1 Map will follow ill.' walkout of Wcdne -which
have contracts Unit were made !.. For example. Iheie ate . i even
avert lessatlnli of win k'.'" he was asked. I ,in,'.; nod in all Ihc w.iiehiluscs k
I "Where unions aie working under an
1 agreement w lib linns these firms wilt be
I told ihelr men t'liiiliot get lo work be-
! c.iusn the cars ate run bv noti. union
bv noti. union
III, 'II lino oi'- 10. no,.', tw j...... ..... ..
. one is roiuk " u si, ,,.,.,
"What l'i the illflcience betwiti
n strike and a suspeiislou of wort."" a re
1 nrlf,r Innnbeil of I'V.IVlie
"Let me ask vnu tin illffei epce,'
he
answered. And there the mailer stood,
All the Icadeis interviewed let It be un
derstood that "suspension of work" is a
LEAD "STRIKE"
it will be a strike of the greatest
reaching effect.
harbor will be tied up tight.
mere euphemism, I hat the voto calls for
a stiiko and ev erv thing for which a
strll.-vj stands.
"I sincerely liupe," said Mr. Hohm
hist nlglit, "that tho General -.titke sltl
may be nvrit.,,1, u H niy hope that n
coufeieliei, will bo tailed that will s.-tllu
the car strike and thus do a way with
the necessity of the other union organi
zations going mil. 1 am auvlmis to he.nl
oil' the c.itnstli.phc of u general strike
.nd tho Industrial di: turban s of :!
eltj."
Samuel itotnpers of the Amcrlcnti
Federation of Labor had dt parted f o
Washington In .tho morning. When ho
left he dropped thc slgiuMcant rrtnaik:
"I may have to return on ihc next
train."
Immediately after the vote word of
the action w.n Ii legra plied to ii.tu. Tl
union miii want him in i.il.e personal
bailerhlp In the New Vnl. hgV It
tuobable be will make bt In .iihiunr'.o'
here, with I'ravne an Ir-. llfiiteiiant
T. V. 1 I'Coniior, ple.ddi tit nf I!"
iern.itlon.il lirolhcrh I of Long hore
men, who i oiifef.-ed fi-atil.U- that Ihn
locals of thai oiRaiuz.ithni li ne not a
'Ingle grievance, was asked w hello r h -
iinliiii would Join In the m.ivotiient. This
Inipi iy was based on the c l . inn laiic
that he was absent when the vntt was
taken.
I.oliuslioreoir n m lni( Too.
"I stand b the iiction of tl.e -
inittee," he s.ild. "I am with the l.,bo
men of New Yni k "
"How cut! yur tuen sli I.e if thev .
working mi uiievpntd i ontr.n t "'
"'Strike' i' ot.ly a iintidy word r. th
case," h,. ie,p,,i detl. "Th.. nun .it - no
going tn nnd fr.nn tb. it w.n,, io a si
respect, ng iiinnti-r. The vull t..p v .
i until tiny can tide a un on m ,. ,.u )
to I hie."
There ha bee-i fill, of d.s.iif, , ,
atliollg til" lollgsholelllell. t h.. ',o
said thai they would i,,,t r,..p,.' i
any call for .( walkout ui'ot.no I
nil the locals lie hns hfiiil Iroin t on
far have given their tiunnl'nou- app ov. I
to a SJIlipatbV stlll.e. lie esp, ' lp.
i.mie .1,-tlnii tiom the lo.-.ils t',,,t btvn
lift Jl't ll'CIIIlleil the lefucliihi,,!
Tile '.line I'tllllor of lellli t in, . '
bein sprt id about othr ii",on T o
' leaile's velienient'y di lij thelc W !
.1 lack nf nt'ilUlcs, ell. e,
llnnevcr, tl.e I'.dic,, Iie.i.i rt tn--,, has
'been attempting for mer a wn n
K.IURe tile selltllllellt nninn-- the d ll'ce"t
, trades Tin invest L.itors ir, .. i (,
lllele isi a ie, .iled d.s Ip.ifov il a
eral stlikr in cei'tnl i tinpoi'ai.t li , ,
The names of these ar.d llic llitur. .ill
not be obtained.
C. I
Lenders ),iroe Vellon
In dspe; tne ibmi.t nnout whole a'
the
compliance Mr Central l'eibi.i,.. I , ,
vv lilt li Includes nlh iii es of :,i nli)
linkers, at a ire.'nii: n Labor To pb .
U.ist IIlBllt -tool lb -,rt ll't t.ig it b.
,i stnndiUR vote ,'ippro fi ,1 the i. 'icn
1ak.li at tlie all.'iio.ci tne. .ting of lead
ers In the Hotel Continental.
Co-e on Ihc heels nf tii.s uw ti
threat of sttlke trolil Uie r'r,.l.. ee . o'
the lllchmond I .is hi and i:,illm,i. i ,
p.iny. which op. rale all Hi" iiil.n r . t"i
on St.ilcn Island Tln v h.ivt piesu'el
,i wiirc scale which, 'he coinpanv .tl'
clals prolet, s cxorbit.in'. The men at
their meeting last night ib liveied an ul
timatum. It Is .cMa'i I ha I un!e-s t ,
company makes llm ral . oncssloii' l.v .
, n'linck this nftei nouii i slnko 'II rev
declared iiRaillH lb Thu- four of H ,
live boroughs will .i nvolved Mi tn.l
traction strike r.n...'.Un is ih.
I section that ha - f. .tl" I . .us far
j shunts "Prepared" for It.
The sttlke lhrt.it brought no il ,,i
boroiiRh and New mlt li.illw.iv" Coin
p.iny. Furthermore, we have I n ga'
elillg supplies for Weeks, so We v l stlf-
fei no pressmo thiough a general
strike"
1. I. I. ..,.,11 ..l.ln tit if lillult)i..M .Is.,.-....
th,. vvatn from millions of ion of n,
trrlriN Inicndrd for slili nt in the
lie. Without Hie longslioivinen I ,
, inicuater bnatnien nnd Hie men nf t
, n,,.w,itor bnatnien nnd lb
No I Mnslcts, M ilei ami Pilot I nioii He
lean be no transfer of llnse Mnpintni I
I In vessels.
"Wo will tie up tho h.itboi' so lis
a single bn.it wdl rut be able tn move, '
prnpliefleil Holland last night
The garment factory owner i In h,i
srvcnleen weeks ilgil that was dim tl
onlv n few weeks ago suffered a ln.i
