[L_i
S
i
iiZ& "^^i&^U
VOL. 32. No 89
RUSSA MOTON.
(From the Crisis.)
The Crisis hastens to extend to you
on your accession to the headship of
Tuskegee the assurances of its good
will and personal respect. The Crisis
does this all the more -willingly be
cause it has to some extent been the
mouthpiece of many who have had oc
casion repeatedly to criticize the
words and deeds of your predecessor
It would be a matter of hope and
rejoicing if your assumption of new
duties could be the beginning of a
new era of union and understanding
among the various groups of Ameri
can Negroes.
But understanding and coroperation
must be based on frank conference
and clear knowledge. As a prelimi
nary step to such understanding the
Crisis ventures in this open letter to
express to you publicly its hopes and
fears. ^*s
It hopes that the aims of the col
ored American have become suffi
ciently clear to admit of no misunder
standing or misstatement. We desire
to become American citizens with
every right that pertains to citizen
ship:
1. The right to vote and hold office.
2 Equality before the law.
3. Equal civil rights in all public
places, and in all public services.
4 A proportional share in the bene
fits of all public expenditures.
5. Education according to ability
and aptitude.
With these rights we correlate our
duties as men and citizensthe aboli
tion of poverty, the emancipation of
women, the suppression of crime and
the overcoming of ignorance.
The Crisis assumesindeed, it
knowsthat in these matters you be
lieve substantially, as we do, and that
the real differences between us, if
there be such, lie in matters of pres
ent emphasis and present procedure.
We assume, without demur, that
following the late Booker T. Wash
ington you will place especial em
phasis on vocational training, prop
erty getting and conciliation of the
white South. These are necessary
and against these the Crisis speaks
policies, but they have their pitfalls,
this warning word:
1. Only the higher and broader
training will give any race its ulti
mate leadership. This Mr. Washing
ton came to realize, and this you must
not forget.
a lUtanp of Atlanta
Silent God, Thou whose voice afar in mist and mystery hath
left our ears an-hungered in these fearful days
Hear us, good Lord!
L'sten to us, Thy children: our faces dark with doubt, are made
a mockery in Thy sanctuary. With uplifted hands we front Thy
heaven, O God, crying:
We beseech Thee to hear us, good Lord I
& We are not better than our fellows, Lord, we are but weak and
human men. When our devils do deviltry, curse Thou the doer and
the deed: curse them as we curse them, do to them all and more
than ever they have done to innocecce and weakness, to womanhood
and home.
Hyoe mercy upon us, miserable sinners I
J* & And yet whose is the deeper guilt? Who made these devils?
Who nursed them in crime and fed them on injustice? Who ravished
and debauched their mothers and their grandmothets? Who bought
and sold their crime, and waxed fat and rich on public iniquity?
Thou knowest, good God
Is this Thy justice, O Father, that guile be easier than innocence,
and the innocent crucified for the guilt of the untouched guilty?
Justice, 0 Judge of men I
o* Wherefore do we pray Is not the God of the fathers dead?
Have not seers seen in Heaven's halls Thine hearsed and lifeless form
stark amidst the black and rolling smoke of sin, where all along bow
bitter forms of endless dead
Awake, Thou thai steepest I
& & Thou art not dead, but flown afar, up hills of endless light,
thru blazing corridors of suns, where worlds do swing of good and
gentle men, of women strong and freefar from the cozenage, black
hypocrisy and chaste prostitution of this shameful speck of dust!
Turn again, 0 Lord, leave us not to perish in our sin
J* From lust of body and lust of blood
Great God deliver us I
AN OPEN LETTER TO ROBERT
2. Individual accumulation of wealth
must gradually and inevitably give
way to methods of social accumula
tion and equitable distribution.
3. Finally: Conciliation is wise and
proper. But how far shall it go? It
is here that the Crisis confesses to its
deepest solicitude in your case. It
cannot but remember its unanswered
query of you in the case of the St.
Louis luncheon It has before it the
heading of a Rochester paper which
gives as your opinion that "from
North one gets distorted view of
South." And finally, there is the re
cent case of the Pullman car and your
family.
The Crisis will assume in all of
these cases that you have not been
correctly reported that you did not
voluntarily give up lunching at the
St Louis City Club that you did not
assert that the South was maligned
usually at the North, and above all,
that you did not say that you had no
sympathy with the attempt of mem
bers of your family to ride on Pull
man cars in the South.
The Crisis knows only too well the
way in which Southern newspapers
put such sentiments into the mouths
of colored leaders but the point upon
which we insist is this: that such
atrocious statements cannot be al
ways passed in silence.
We do not wish the principal of
Tuskegee to spend his valuable time
in answering calumnies and misstate
ments, but we do believe that when
so monstrous a statement is made, as
in the case of the Pullman car, some
thing besides silence and acquiescence
is called for.
We hope to see, therefore, at Tus
kegee in the future a carrying out
and development of the best of its
past work and a continued attempt to
come to terms of understanding with
the best of the white South but to
these policies we Tiope to see added a
policy of making it clearly understood
to the people of this country that Tus
kegee does believe in the right to
vote that it does not believe in Jim
Crow cars that it recognizes the
work of the Negro colleges, and that it
agrees with Charles Sumner that
"Equality of rights is the first of
rights."
This, then, is the forward step at
Tuskegee which the Crisis and its
friends look for under your adminis
tration, and it desires to express its
earnest hope, and indeed its faith,
that you will not disappoint your fel
low workers.
%&it<
THE MOTON INCIDENT.
(From the Cleveland Gazette.)
Major Robert Moton has recently
been installed as principal of Tuske
gee, Ala., N. and I. Institute. He
made a favorable impression while
here in Rochester. Everyone regrets
to know that his wife was subjected
to such brutal treatment as to be
driven out of a Pullman car in Ala
bama. It appears, according to re
ports, that the riding in a Pullman
car by the Motons had been a subject
of discussion before the journey was
begun. Mrs. Moton felt that she was
clearly within her rights to ride in a
Pullman car anywhere it went. The
white passengers complained of her
presence and when everything was
opportune, they depended upon the
usual law-breaking officials of Alabama
to drive a defenseless woman out of
the car, in which she could travel with
comfort and ease, into a "jim-crow"
car, where vermin dwelt. It is very
unfortunate for the white passengers
that their selfish ease and\ comfort
had made them snobs to the extent
that they objected to the presence of
the wife of the principal of Tuskegee
Normal and Industrial Institutethe
school that the country says is "the
colored man's finest
asset." Is it possible that any white
woman could be so robbed of the milk
of kindness and womanly instincts
that she would urge the driving of a
refined mother out of her berth which
she had purchased, which the com
pany had accepted the money for, in
order that white supremacy might get
another boost? Above all do we re
gret the reported statement issued by
Major Moton. He did not stand by
his wife in her fight for her rights.
He advised the submission to in
human oppression. He is quoted as
saying that he "has the highest re
gard for the traditions 'of the South,
he having been born there." We
commend him for his consideration
of the South, but we are amazed,
however, at his foresaking his wife in
this hour of her humiliation. We also
have respect for the traditions of the
South that are humane and just, but
we denounce and opiose~the recent
"traditions of the South," which
make them lynch, burn, oppress and
degrade the colored race under the
disguise of "Southern chivalry and
greatness." The officer that ejected
Mrs. Moton was a law-breaker and
coward. The Pullman company that
received her money and gave her a
berth had the right to protect her. If
we are to choose between life, respect
and rights on the one haad and Tus
jkegee that will teach cringing sub
1 '^"""^'^"^iMMBeTii
^E&8L& 3fe4^ *i?K*Jer
ST. PAUL AM) MINNEAPOLIS. MINN.. SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 23. 1916
A LITANY OF ATLANTA
BY DR. W, E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
IN THE NEW YORK INDEPENDENT
^ROM lust of power and lust of gold.
Great God deliver us I
& & From the leagued lying of despot and of brute,
Great God delfber us I
*gi
& J* A city lay in travail, God our Lord, and from her loins sprang
twin Murder and Black Hate. Red was the midnight clang, crack
and cry of death and fury filled the air and trembled underneath the
stars when church spires pointed silently to Thee. And all this was to
sate the greed of greedy men who hide behind the veil of vengeance!
Bend us Thine ear, 0 Lord!
J\n the pale, still morning we looked upon the deed. We stopped
our ears and held our leaping hands, but theydid they not wag their
heads and leer and cry with bloody jaws: Cease from Crime I The word
was mockery, for thus they train a hundred crimes while we docure one.
Turn again our captivity, 0 Lord!
J. Behold this maimed and broken thing dear God it was an humble
black man who toiled and sweat to save a bit from the pittance
paid.him. They told him: Work and Rise* He worked. Did this man
sin? Nay, but some one told how some one said another didone
whom he had never seen nor known. Yet for that man's crime this
man lieth maimed and murdered, his wife naked to shame, his
children! to poverty and evil.
Hear us, 0 heavenly Father! i
j Doth not this justice of hell stink in Thy nostrils, O God? How
long shall the mounting flood of innocent blood roar in Thine ears and
pound in our hearts for vengeance? Pile the pale frenzy of blood-
crazed brutes who do such deeds high on Thine altar, Jehovah Jireh,
and burn it in hell forever and forever!
Forgfbe us, good Lord we know not what we say
jfi Bewildered we are, and passion-tost, mad with the madness of
a mobbed and mocked and murdered people straining at the armposts
of Thy Throne, we raise our shackjed bands and charge Thee, God,
by the bones of our stolen fathers, by the iears of our dead mothers, by
the very blood of Thy crucified Christ: What meaneth this Tell us
the Plan give us the Sign I
Keep not thou silence, 0 God/
THE MOTON INCIDENT
Comments of Colore Contemporaries on Majo Moton's Failureto Resent the Humiliation of His Wife and
the Insult to the Colore People of the Country. Principal of Tuskegee Institute
has not yet replied to the Ope Letter of the Crisis and the Comments
of the Press. Speak Ou Major!
mission to wrong and injustice in
order to exist in the world, we choose
the former. Between Major Moton
and his courageous wife in this in
stance there is no real choice. Fair
minded men and women of all races
sympathize with and stand by Mrs.
Moton. If Tuskegee is to be con
tinued as a mill to turn out colored
boys and girls who are spineless and
cowards when their civil rights are at
stake, the sooner it goes to the wall
the better it will be for all concerned.
Great buildings, imposing machinery,
beautiful grounds and varied indus
tries amount to naught when the real
thing, MANHOOD, is crushed out.
Major Moton should understand now
that Tuskegee is a nation's school.
The millions now being sought for
from all races should remain in hid
ing if the inhuman and brutal prac
tices of the worst element of the
South are to determine its policy. If
the best whites of the South acquiesce
in it, then we say move Tuskegee
where it can develop character and
MANHOOD. The "jim-crow" car
must be fought and the time is oppor
tune to fight when one of the fore
most women of the land has been so
shamelessly humiliated and appar
ently foresaken by her strong de
educational fender. Major Moton's task is a dif
ficult one, but let him start right. If
the advice given his brother and wife
is characteristic of what he will give
students, we quake and tremble for
colored boys and girls.
(REV.) WM. A. BOYD,
Rochester, N. Y.
RESENTMENT NEEDED.
(St. Paul Appeal Editorial.)
After having been granted Pullman
tickets from Montgomery, Alabama to
Savannah, Georgia, the wife of Major
Robert R. Moton, recently installed
as principal of Tuskegee Institute, and
Blanton Moton, his brother, were
ejected from the car by "two police
men and some of the best citizens" of
Troy, Ala. Although they had paid
Pullman fares and were interstate pas
sengers, both were forced to ride in
the jimcrow car.
The wires tell us that when Major
Moton was informed of the matter, he
saying that if Major Moton is quotedk
correctly and feels that way that he
ored youth for life. Manhood should
be the basis of all training.
What more is needed to make a man
resentful than an attack on his wife?
A being who would not defend his wife
against every foe is unworthy to be
called a man. Even among the lower
animals the males willingly give up
their lives in defense of their mates.
The present unhappy state of the
colored people in the United States is
largely due to the servile tactics of
the so-called leaders who have been
not only too cowardly to defend them
selves when attacked but have actu
ally advised submission to great
wrongs.
Has Shown His Hand.
(From the Gleveland Gazette.)
Four days after the inauguration as
principal of Tuskegee, Ala., Normal
and Industrial Institute the South
forces Major Moton to "show his
hand" and there is not even a "deuce"
in it for the race. One thing sure
and that is from a racial standpoint
he is certainly no improvement upon
Booker T. Washington.
Unfit to Teach Our Children.
(From the Martinsburg Pioneer
Press.)
This paper has no retraction to
make in the Major Moton affair. It
thought then and knows now that no
improvement was made by his pro
motion. Booker T. Washington's pal
liation gave us double work for man
hood rights not only in the South but
the North as well for untold years to
come, and his successor's ambition is
ta be patted on the back and be called
"a good darkey"to the lower regions
with the "good darkey" class. Any
man who goes back on his wife when
abused for contending for her rights
paid for, to ride in a'Pullman car, is
unfit to lead and teach our children.
(1
Stand Squarely for Justice.
(From the Omaha Monitor.)
Major Moton, please don't assume
thhoping
attitude
ofgan condoned it saying that he "respecteo for bi things from you W
the traditions of the South and had no know and appreciate the difficulties
resentment against the people who of your position. Stand squarely and
committed the outrage." firmly for justice to
yourr race..
THE APPEAL has no hesitancy in
apologist.
We. aree
No
apology is due from eithe Mrs Mo
ton or yourself, because as a cultured
and refined woman she preferred, to
is unfitted for the presidency of an ride in a Pullman rather than in a jmium wm rise iama arm
institution which is designed to fit col- "Jim Crow" car in which "equal ac Zdid Ms iUu^trious predSo?
IT no longer blind, Lord God, deaf to our prayer and dumb to
our dumb suffering. Surely Thou too art not white, O Lord, a
pale, bloodless, heartless thing
Ah I Christ of all the Pities
& Forgive the thought! Forgive these wild,blasphemous words.
Thou art still the God of our black fathers, and in Thy soul's soul sit
some soft darkenings of the evening, some shadowings of the velvet
night. J* & But whisperspeakcall, great God, for Thy silence is white
terror to our hearts! The way, O God. show us the way and point us
the path.
& Whither? North is greed and South is blood within, the
coward, and without, the liar. Whither? To death?
Amen 1 Welcome dark sleep 1
Whither? To life? But not this life, dear God, not this. Let
the cup pass from us, tempt us not beyond our strength, for there is
that clamoring and clawing within, to whose voice we would not listen,
yet shudder lest we must, and it is red, Ah! God! It is a red and
awfdl shape.
Selahl
S J* In yonder East trembles a star.
Vengeance is mine I will repay, satth the Lord!
J* J* Thy will, O Lord, be done!
Kyrie Eleisonl
Lord, we have done these pleading, wavering words.
We beseech Thee to hear us, gtod Lord!
J* We bow our heads and hearken soft to the sobbing of woaen
and little children.
We beseech Thee to hear us, good Lord!
J* Our voices sink in silence and in night.
Hear us, good Lord!
J* In night, O God of a godless land!
Amen I
In silence, O Silent God.
Selahl
Done at Atlanta, in th Day of Dejifh, 1906
commodations" are net provided, and
in which the conditions F.re seldom
sanitary or pleasant.
Major Moton's First Duty.
(From the New York News.)
The future of the great work at
Tuskegee, may call for an offending
silence, but it will never be helped
long or to any great degree by an
abject surrender of the race's rights.
Major Moton's first duty to himself
and his race is to set himself now and
at all times four square with the pro
gress of his people.
Must Contend for Rights.
(From Richmond Planet.)
We do not just understand the
position of Principal Robert R. Moton
in the matter There is no
other course to pursue than to con
tinue to contend for rights denied,
even though we are rebuked and dis
appointed in so doing. No question
is ever settled until it is settled right.
We must continue to appeal to the
conscience of the American people.
We must continue to attempt to en
force our rights through the courts of
the land, even though some of them
may be prejudiced against us.
The Color Line.
(From the Ghicago Evening Post.)
Major Moton is quoted as saying
that he bears no resentment against
anyone for the treatment accorded his
wife. If he were an American, he
would resent it hotly and the railroad
would pay damages. As an Afro
American he may not act on the im
pulse of self-respect and chivalry he
must cringe and submit.
Unless He Can Talk Like a Man.
(From the Richmond Planet.)
Principal R. R. Moton has gone to
work. It would be well for nim to
keep at it and to have nothing further
to say about that Pullman sleeping
car incident.
-%&
Servility Brings Contempt.
(From the Union, Cincinnati, O.)
If the above is true (referring to
the "Moton Incident") then Major
Moto will rise to fame and fortune
'aS&H&3& S&1 &.j*Z**ttiSl
$2.40 PER YEA1J.
W. JE. BURGHARDT DU BOIS.
Crooking the pregnant hinges of the
knee that thrift may follow fawning"
brings wealth from the great masses
of white people alright, but it also
brings a vast amount of contempt.
There is so much bowing, cringing
and nauseating servility shown by
some of our people, is it any wonder
annointed, and therefore vastly supe
that even the 25th class of white
people feel that they are the Lord's
rior to all colored people?
THE HAND PICKED LEADER.
(From the Kansas Elevator.)
The Elevator would like to know if
the time has not arrived when colored
men should select their own leaders
instead of leaving the delicate task to
the hands of designing men of the op
posite race, and if any colored man
can serve two masters at one and the
same time, and if as a general proposi
tion, the "hand picked leader" is not
always against his race?
Shun Them as Vipers.
(From the Martinsburg Pioneer-Press)
Just as long as the negro believes
"he has a place," and is constantly
Jerking off his hat when out of it, he
will be the cause of many others en
during hardships forever and aye. As
long as a certain class of whites take
to this class of sycophants, the more
rigidly those who wear their sover
eignty under their own hats, should
denounce, discard and shun them as
they would a viper.
IS HE TOO, A TRUCKLER?
(From the Boston Guardian.)
It is said that Major R. R. MotonT
principal of the Tuskegee Institute,
condones the recent outrageous treat
ment of his wife who was ousted from
a Pullman sleeper in Alabama and
compelled to ride in the "jimcrow" car
because of her color.
If Major Moton is willing to con
done such an outrage it is evidence
that he is not the man to be at the
(head of a great institution for the
"training of young colored men."
The first thing to be taught our
youth is manhood, for without that
they can never amount to anything,
and a man who does not resent an at
tack on his own wife is certainly not
the person to teach manhood to others.
The beasts of the jungle will fight to
the death to protect their mates.
Major Moton has recently been in
stalled as principal of Tuskegee but
it looks as if he ought to be sup
planted by a real man, who does not
respect Southern traditions" as
r Moton claims to
*2K,
J"
1
