EFUB
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 127
7
CAN
THE
R
S0M11 FRONT
ES
RENEW
OFFENSIVE
nriTTTTp
FRENCH AND BRITISH M
, OFFENSIVE; ARE REWARDED
' WITH ADDITIONAL SUCCESSES
RK(irance of Villa Complicates Work of Commission
HEAR A REPORT? I
SAY SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND TO
STRIKE
' ' (By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
On th. Somme front in France, French and Britiih again have taken
the offensive and been rewarded with additional gains. General Haig's
men made progress toward Bapaums while General Foch's soldiers, who
apparently have beaun another effort to eject the Germans from
Comblcs and its salient north of the Somme. also met with success.
After the checkina of German attacks southeast of Combles, between
Lepries farm and Rancourt the end of the French oart of the entente
line which almost encircles the town, the French undertook local opera
tions on the outskirts of Combles itself. An organized and defended
house was captured and several trench elements were occupied. In these
enterprises 140 prisoners were taken.
General Haig's troops straightened out their lines between Martin
puich and Flers. a distance of about one mile by taking two lines of Ger
men trenches. The British front there now runs on a direct line north
of the two villages. London also records improvements of other positions
on the British front.
It is announced officially in Paris that the number of prisoners taken
by the Anqlo-French forces on the Somme from Julv 1 to September 18,
amounted to more than 55,800. Of these. 34,050 fell into the hands of the
French. Berlin reports no activity on the whole of the western front.
German and Rumanian reports as to the progress or result of the
battle en the Dobrudie conflict, in contradiction of the announcement from
Bucharest that the forces of the central powers were fallina back, Berlin
declares that Field Marshal von Mackenson has, by an encircling move
ment, broken the resistence of the Rumanians and Russians and com
pelled them to retreat. Berlin says strong Rumanian forces were repulsed
southeast of Toprai Sari, on the Black sea coast.
Berlin and Vienna admit a reverse in the Carpathians in the Russian
capture of the summit of Smotreo height, which previously had changed
hands many times, but declare Russian attacks in Volhvnia and south
ern Bukowina were checked. West of Lutsk Germans again repulsed
Russian attacks, caotunna 750 prisoners and several machine guns, ac
cording to Berlin and Russian assau ts in Galicia north of Zboroff and in
the region of Dorna Watra were frustrated.
Serbian and French troops conti "ue to make progress in northwestern
Macedonia. The Serbians are aivancing in the Broda river region and thai
l-rench are Dushina forward north of FJonna toward Monastir. A Bul
qarian attack on Zborskv was checked by the entente forces. Berlin and
Sofia report no activity in Macedonia.
An entente transport and a French submarine have fallen victim to a
Gernar suDmarine and a Austro-Hur.garian aeroplane respectively. The
transport reported bv Berlin as "completely filled" was sunk in tha
Mediterranean, September 17. Bombs from the aeroplane sank the sub
marine in the southern adriatic. The twenty-nine members of the crew
were rescued and made prisoner.
London reports that a German aeroplane dropped three bombs on
Dcver, England. Friday. No casualties resulted. British warships have
bembarrled Bulgarian positions near the mouth of the Struma river in
Macedonia.
TO SEND REPRESENTATIVE
TO DAM DEDICATION
P
WASHINGTON. Sent. 22. And
rius A. Jones, former first ssist
ant secretary of the -interior, has
been designated by President Wil
son as his special representative
at the dedication of the great
government dam at Elephant
Bulte, New Mexico, on October 14.
The president had expected to at- I
tend in person but is understood
to have abandoned the plan, j
Secretary Lane, who also had j
planned to be present, does not
expert to be able to zo because i
of the prolonged sessions, of the
Mexican-Americn commission of I
I which he is a member. j
D Q
GE
British Advance.
LONDON. Sept. 22. The British ad
vanced on a front o; a:out a mile last
night in the Somme sector south of the
Aucre river. The war office announced
today that two lines of hostile trenches
had been captured.
"During the night we advanced on a
front of about a mile," the statement
says, "capturing two lines of hostile
trenches, approximately between Flers
and Martinpuich.
"Our- front now runs approximately
on a direct line north of Flers and Mar
tinpuich. "The enemy's trenches were success
fully entered last night south of Arras,
prisoners hcjng taken and many casual
ties inflicted.
"Noj-th ot Neuvllle St. Vaast a mine
was blown up by us and the crater
occupied."
Germans Retire.
PARIS, Sept. 22. German infantry
advancing in waves renewed efforts
this morning to beat back the French
from positions recently captured north
of the Somme.
The official announcement today says
that the attacks were broken by French
artillery before the Germans reached
the French lines, compelling hem to
retire to their own trenches after sus
taining heavy losses.
Count Michael Karolyi, president of
the Hungarian independence party,
speaking- in the Hungarian diet today,
formally asked the Hungarian premier
whether the king of Hungary had abdi
cated his sovereign rights to the Ger
man emperor, according to a Budapest
dispatch to the Tijd.
Premier Tizsa, the dispatch adds, re
plied that Count Karloyi had been
wrongly informed.
The king of Hungary, he said, fully
retained his sovereign rights.
The Berlin Lokal Anzeiger announces
that Baron von Schenk. former chief
director of German, jrtwianaa ' in
Greece and who was sent out of Greece
hy the entente powers, has reached
Berlin. In an interview in the Lokal
Anzeiger he is reported as saving:
"Greece now is completely under the
bomb of Venizelos although the people
are still Germany's friends. When the
gendarmes came to expel me, thev
wept, saying, 'excuse us for what we
are compelled to do and the stress of
circumstances and of which we are very
3 ' '
Premier Tisza replying in the Hun
garian house of deputies to a ques
tion concerning the vacancy in the
post of Austro-Hungarian ambassa
dor to the United States, according to
dispatches received here from Buda-
Today's
reads:
official
pest replied:
muiumraiiimB i -I can assure the house that all
competent authorities in the monar
on the relations
States. In due time
way for an appro
priate seuiement or the matter,
"Along the Struma front, and in the chy set great va '
region of Doiran lake, there has been wifh the United St
he customary artillery fighting. Be- we .ha," find a u
tween the river Vardar and the river
erna. a violent Bulgarian attack upon
7orsky was subjected to a sanguinary
check.
"in the region of the Broda river,
Serbian troops, continuing their for
ward march, penetrated as far as the
immediate vicinity of Urbani (Ver
benu. About 100 prisoners were cap
tured by the Serbians.
"North of Fiorina, an attack of the
enemy was broken by the fire of the
French infantry. Our troops cleaned
up all the ground northwest of Arren
sko and made progress following Borne
severe fighting upon the heights which
dominate the road from Fiorina to
Poplll.
"Foggy weather interferred with the
operations along the entire front."
PARIS, Sept. 22. In the outskirts of
Combles the French .today captured a
strongly defended house from the Ger
mans and took 100 prisoners, three of
them being officers, according to the
official communication issued tonight
Klsewhere on the front there were
only minor engagements. Prisoners
taken hy French and British from
July 1 to September IS nn ih.
front number 55.800, of whom 34,000
were taken by the French.
Has King Abidicated.
AMSTKRDAM, Sept. 22 (via London)
Apponyi Seeks Post
LONDON, Sept. 23. Count Albert
Apponyi, one of the leaders of the on-
position in me tiungarian parliament,
according to advices from Budapest to
tne Man, is a receptive candidate for
the post of Austro-Hungarian ambas
(Continued on Page Two)
HIS GIN
IN ID THEIR
IGRI GUNS.
BIG WALKOUT
PLANNED FOR
WEDNESDAY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OTTAWA, Sept. 22. Tribute to the
fighting qualities of "His Majesty's
land ship 'Creme de Menthe,' " is given
bv the press representative at Cana
dian corns headquarters in France, in 'The call, it was said, would be issued
in account received here today of the not only to organized workers in New
part played by the Dominion's troops I York, but also to those in Westchester
in the offensive of September 15. The I county, in which the cities of Yonkers
assertion is made in the report that',Nw Roehelle. and Mount Vernon are
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Sept. 2-'. Delegates
to the Central Federated Union, rep
resenting 12"i,000 workers in allied
trades, voted unanimously1 tonight to
ratif- the sympathetic strike called
for next Wednesday bv union labor
leaders. This action followed a simi
lar step taken several davs ago by
the representatives of 200.000 mem
bers of the United Hebrew trades.
Organized workers in virtually
every industry in Greater New York,
were formally called upon late today
to cease work at 8 o'clock next Wed
nesday morning in sympathy with
striking traction employes. Labor
leaders assert that approximately
600.000 men and women are involved.
The call was embodied in resolu
tions adopted at a conference of labor
leaders representing the federal bod
ies in all the boroughs of the city as
well as many national and interna,
tional unions. Of the SO unions in
the city represented, it was said some
already had voted in favor of a strike.
German machine gunners were found
chained and padlocked to their guns.
The morning of September 15
dawned bright and clear," said the
message from the front. "There was
a frosty nip to the air. Suddenly our
situated and would extend through
out a wide range of industries.
Hugh Frayne, New York state or
ganizer of the American Federation
of Labor, announced the determina
tion to cajl the sympathetic walkout
massed artillerv hurst into a frenzv of . in the following statement:
activity. Shells of every caliber were) "II ,vas decided bv unanimous vote
hurled over the heads of the fatting.'" i?:-"i.i.ivt:ii "i ow unions or
infnntrv. i Greater New York and vicinitv. that
"Shortly after 6 o'clock our battalions ,here shal1 be a general suspension of
began their attack. In successive I ?" work in all trades and industries
waves our infantry men moved for-!1" "r.er .ew tork and vicinity,
ward, climbing over the shell torn j Vn0 fame commence Wednesday,
ground and leaDimr the battered Septemoer 2i, at 8 a. m."
trenches. Among them burst the en- f.'f'lcers of several international
emy shells. The noise was terrificc. ! "nions attended the conference. Mr.
MsiMitn n-n onri wifio r -,a iifnvne said. Among those was T.
them. Steadily they mounted the last I X; 'ConnPr..jt -Buffalo, president of
ridge, saw Martinpuich on their right! "' .""f"""'""-" "JngBnoremen s or
0h io.,i,.j -... .v, d i. .ganization.
and white chalk mounds of the sugar L."'n"am, Fitzgerld. general or
rtfinorv onri the tranl,An 1 v. kii- iiiiaiKauiaieu ASSOCia
and loft .hih .ro t v, h .tion of Street and Electric Railway
tive - I Employes, in charge of the traction
"No sooner were the first lino, nf atnk" represented the carmen at the
German trenches secured than the as- I ""in- i. v. j ...
!,iii.,r .wo,,.- .... ., t.. I The call is based unon the pronosi
their midst, moving ponderously, but ' fLJ r" ff rinT- C??not ,malnta"
steadily came severMl of th nw rm. ! tnpir self respect If thev ride upon
ARE 1NVESTIGA TING
THE ADAMSON LAW
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 22. A statement
issued here today on behalf of th-3
railway executives advisory commit
tee, representing the railroads affected
by the Acamson eight-hour law, ex
plained the purposes of its investiga
tion nut under way with a view to
meeting the problems presented. The
objects are to ascertain, if possible,
first the effect of Uie law as a prac
tical operating problem; and second
its legal status."
The first of these inquiries is being
pursued by the managers through the
national conference committee of the
railroads of which Elisha I-ee is a
chairman. A study of legal questions
ha? been referred to counsel of the
various roads. Meanwhile railway ex
ecutives, it was asserted, will continue
of investigation before action," to pre
pare a way for the course the roads
will pursue.
'There is," the executives statement
says, "great dissatisfaction with the
so-called eight-hour act, both in prin
ciple and in manner of its enactment.
Tnere are various questions of policy
which must be decided. If the rail
way executives on advice of counsel,
should conclude that the law is in
valid or even unfair, they must then
consider, what is to be their attitude
to their shareholders in the matter of
its enforcement. They also must con
sider their duty to the public in ask
ing for an increase in railroad rate-,
as suggested by the administration.
They must meet the question whether,
under the so-called eight-hour law,
they must require men who now work
les than eight hours to give a full
UiU
to take a "position squarely in favor eight hours of service.
T
WRECK
DE
1
1
HUT SPEECHES
H GEN. BELLI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Sept." 22. Tha
Mexican -American joint commission;
trying to find an effective and mutual
ly satisfactory plan for the mainten
ance of peace on the border, adjourned
today until next week. The reappear
ance of Villa forces at Chihuahua City
was again the basis for most of tha
discussion at the conference today.
The Mexican representatives listened
to the report from General Bell at EI
Paso, forwarded to the American com
missioners, but from official sources in
Mexico no news of Villa's activities
was received.
The financial entanglement was dis-:
cussed. All the Mexican commission
ers left here tonight, Alberto Pani and
Luis Cabrera for New York, and Igna
cio Bonillas for Boston. John R.
Mott of the American commission also
left, and Secretary Lane and Judge
Gray .expect to go aboard the yacht
Sylph in the morning for a two days'
cruise.
ored cars. His maiestv's land shin ILj,! i. u Dy siriKeoreaKers," ac-
'Creme de Mont ho- lort ih ,vT i 10 a stater
effective was electrical. In vai h.i JL. ,Bohm- secretary of
Germans rained a stream of bullets
against the invulnerable cars, they
were powerless to stop the advance.
"Although our infantry was the first
t"L?",h ?"nc,7- Ve c?"i Provide transponatfon
assisted materially in silencincr the
German machine- guns and enfilading
the enemy trenches, and the deep,
strongly protected dugouts of the sugar
refinery. Ten officers, including a bat
talion comamnder, were made prisoners.
ai tne same time the trenches on ei
ther flank, known to us as the 'candy
ng to a statement issued tonight
Central Federation Union. In case
where contracts exist.- Bohm said the
employers will be notified that' the
workers have no means of transport
ation, and if the employers cannot
the workers
must remain at their homes
"Union employes will not risk their
lives by riding on cars operated by
green motormen and protected by
policemen," Mr. Bohm said. "Neither
can they ride on such cars and retain
their self respect as union men
ine general tie-up will come be
....eu aim capiurea. not provide their employes wit
So successful was this attack that, means of transportation to and fron
corps commander, Sir Julian Byng, work to enable them to stav off th
aded to strike another immediate dangerous striking cars of the sev-
EI HURLS
10
t ;rLrt 1 . BU5ar inches were cauw employers of union labor will
stormed and captured. not provide their emml 2 iu
m
the
Liauiion lines.
Theo. P. Shonts. president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit Com
pany and the New York- Railways
Company, reiterated his determina
tion not to meet representatives of
the striking carmen.
"If I did so the loval men in the
Interborough brotherhood would have
good cause to strike." he said. "Be
sides, there Is no reason for negotia
tions. There is. no strike. We are
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BEACH, N. J., Sept. 22. Wal
ter Hines Page, American ambassador
to Great Britain, on his way here to
night to confer with President Wilson
on British interference with American
trade and mails, was delayed for two
hours at South Amboy, X. J., by a
freight wreck.
Because of the delay, the president
and the ambassador talked for only a
short time tonight, but they plan to
continue the confeernce tomorrow
morning.
The president planned to outline to
Ambassador Page in detail the posi
tion of the United States government
toward the British policy of interfering
with American trade and mails.
Mr. Wilson desired to impress on the
ambassador the necessity of inform
in? the British government that con
tinued interferences with the rights of
the United States will not be allowed.
The president is understood to take the
position that long delays on the part
of the British foreign office in an
swering the protests of the United
States are without excuse.
Retaliatory features of the revenue
bill passed during the last session of
congress were understood to be among
the topics Mr. Wilson expects to dis
cuss with the ambassador.
The president has been studying the
negotiations with Great Britain re
cently and has been in frequent corre
spondence with Secretary Lansing since
coming to Long Beach. The general
policy of the administration was said
to be to continue pressing as vigorous
ly as possible for changes in the Brit
ish government practice of interfering
with American commerce. Ambassa
dor Page was invited by the president
to remain here over night.
Mr. v lison completed tonight an out-
the
dec
blow. He ordered that the village of
Courcelette, together with a line of
German trenches between Moquet farm
(Continued on Page Two)
BOISHEL
1
L
P OF AS
I
(Special to The Republican)
YUMA, Ariz., Sept. 22. Gov. J. H.
Kibbey hurled a bombshell into the
camp of Henry F. Ashurst here to
night when he told more than 400 peo
ple that the Arizona statesman had
personally saved more than J 7,000 by
sending out his campaign literature in
official envelopes. He added that the
Perjury Is Charged Against
Attorney And Three Others
Republican A. P. Leased Wire"
CHICAGO, Sept. 22. James R. Ward,
attorney for Edward M. Morrison, re
cluse millionaire whose wealth van
ished mysteriously, waa released from
rusuidy on bond tonight after Federal
Judge Landis had ordered Ward and
three others arrested for alleged per
jury in connection with the case.
John Sommers, Jeweler, and one time
guide of the recluse millionaire on
el range Jaunts into the underworld,
also secured his release on bond. In
court today Morrison, angered at reve-
seph Burnstein, a junk dealer, are held
in the county jail. Harris is held
merely as a witness. Burnstein had ac
cused Morrison of parentage of Mar
garet and Alice Burnstein, whom Mor
rlson adopted.
vv ara neia mucn or Morrison s prop
erty through transfers which the court
questioned. Judge Landis.asked county
auuionues 10 investigate tne case.
"The evidence," said Judge xjindis. in
court, "has disclosed that Mr. Morrison
has been espoiled of a large amount of
his property."
I he case reached Judge Landis' court
lationr of how he waa said to have on bankruptcy proceedings brought
leen fleeced, struck Snm
j i me .iB'oi .wuuiowii. 11 was unjviufa in
fare.
the will of Morrison's father that if he
The other two prisoners, Ewart Har- died without an heir, the estate should
ns, a stenographer for Ward, and Jo-' go to the city of Chicago.
democratic senator was having t,
mighty hard time explaining his act.
uu' uvnjMie urns nanaicap, i m go
ing to be the next senator from thi
state," Judge Kibbey declared. And!
judging from the mighty annlanse
that greeted this remark It was man
ifested that the people of'Yuma will
materially aid him.
Speaking of the Wilson administra
tion. Judge Kibbey declared that the
present American-Mexican commis
sioners were considering the size of
the indemnity to be naid Carranza for
the invasion of Mexico by American
troops.
"If we elect a Democrat, we have got
to pay It. If we elect Charles Hughes
we don't," he declared. He also an
swered several questions which were
asked him hy a local newspaper and
won the hearty applause of his lis
teners. Joe V. Prochaska, Gila county's can
didate for secretary of state, reiter
ated his pledge to give the people a
business administration of the office
when he is elected.
Judge Otis J. Boughn. candidate for
supreme justice, made a sincere and
masterful plea to have the 'higher ju
diciary strictly non-partisan, as is re-
quirea oy tne statutes. This can only
be done by the election of some can
didate other than a democrat, he asserted.
Norman J. McKenzie. candidate for
mine inspector and J. H. Cloonan
(Continued on Page Two)
o .
Failure of Many
Private Banks Is
Causing Alarm
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
tua'AUO. sent 22 s.nj ..r
aUy-m over the failure uf nriv.nte
banks In Chicago tonight, prompted
"u,LO' rtiiuiney noyne. whose an
nouncement of an investlir-.ti -
njiiowcu oy tne bank crashes, to issue
a statement declaring his office n t
i , . . . "
nine nas noi closed or orders!
lu,i"e ciosea a single private bank.
j uis oanK investigation was not
"v uul oy me compiainls
of the depositors," Hoyne declared.
"I am not conducting this invention .
tion of any hank or institution for tlic
protection of depositors."
Chicago's tenth private bank within
a month closed today. It was the
Industrial Savings bank, headed hv
Harry A. Dubia, president, which has
deposits ' of approximately f xon.ooo.
Dubia declared it is solvent. Three
creoitors tiled a petition in bankruptcy
against the institution. 1
When the vault of the Dubia bank
was opened tonight by agents for the
receiver, cash and negotiable check
amounting only to 520.180 were found.
A neurit
of f62.afi8.ns hii boon
louna Dv investigation of the Paisley
cjiain of private banks throo in nm.
,,. .x. . U.KU J . I . V. ' I , - ' Hill
candidate for corporation commission- ' f r' vvnich closed yesterday, the state's
er also spoke. anumey announced.
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SOUTH BEND, Ind., Sept. 22. Chas.
E. Hughes reached South Bend tonight
at the fag end of his busiest, day, al
most minus his voice. He spent it in
twelve speeches along the way and
talked to his audience here tonight at
times in a hoarse whisper. Utterly
wearied, travel-stained, worn by the
day's exactions, the nominee faced a
large audience here and made his chief
speech of the day.
During the day he took the program
into his own hands and fashioned .it
anew to make it include a speech at
every stopping place. At most of these
places it had been arranged that he
would say only a few words but the
big crowds that greeted him with
cheers and applause every few miles
heartened him and he talked. His doc
tor stood behind him at almost every
station and applied throat sprays free
ly between talks, but his voice was
frayed and ragged long before he
reached South Bend.
One? at Mrs. Hughes' suggestion,
Charles W. Farnham, manager of the
tour, tugged at the nominee's coat to
signal him to stop but Mr. Hughes,
with an emphatic gesture, signified that
he intended to finish his address.
The nominee's private car was be
sieged all day by local reception com
mittees. They came by the hundred to
ride a station or two and then drop
off, and of course to meet Mr. Hughes.
In his speech here. Mr. Hughes dis
cussed the Adamson law, the Mexican
situation, the protective tariff policy,
preparedness, Americanism, protection
of American rights, and extravagance
of administration methods.
"The sixty-fourth congress," he said,
"already has appropriated $1,858,384,-
(Continued on Page Two;
Trevino Wants Investigation
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Sept. 22. Gen
eral Trevino announced today that i
the report of Villa's attack on Chi
huahua City, sent to Washington by
General Bell commanding the El Paso
district, is the same as the version of
it received here, he would ask the gen
eral to send a personal representative
to investigate the facts at first hand.
The same facilities to investigate would
be accorded to any responsible resident
of Chihuahua, whom General Bell
might commission, General Trevino
added.
MARSHALL ISSUES CHALLENGE
1 HUGHES TU EXPLAIN
Bell Is Confident
EL PASO, Sept. 22. "I am confw
dent that my information regarding
Villa's attack on Chihuahua City ia
accurate, therefore I do not see that
any further investigation is necessary
on my part," was General Bell's com
ment tonight on being informed that
he had been invited by General Tre
vino to send a special agent to Chihua
hua to ascertain the facts.
"The truth is," Generall Bell con
tinued. "General Trevino is up against
a fact that cannot be explained away.
He was caught napping by Villa. A
soldier ' has an excuse for getting:
whipped, but he has no excuse for
being caught off his guard. The result
is, he finds he must make extremo
claims to clear his reputation as a,
soldier.
"As the result of further investiga
tion, my account of the Chihuahua
City battle, as communicated to my
superiors, has been, in my belief, ab
solutely confirmed. I stand by it and
have no desire to carry the matter
further."
A report that a force of Carrancis
tas was engaging a band of Villistas at
Samalayuca, a station on the Mexican
Central railway about six miles south
of Juarez, was received here late to
night by local legalista party leaders.
No details were given except that tlio
attack began after dark.
At the Carrancista headrruarters 111
Juarez, however, the staff officer in
charge denied the rumor, saying that
all garrisons in his zone reported
conditions quiet.
General Francisco Gonzales, com
manding the northern Chihuahua dis
trict, placed troops along the railway
and to guard other approaches to
Juarez immediately after Villa's as
saul on Chihuahua City last week;
the same circumstances, or what he
will do, if elected.
"The whole republican campaign
hinges on the little word 'if,' " the vice
president declared.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
RICHMOND, Ind., Sept. 22. Vice
President Thomas R. Marshall, in an
address here tonight, issued a chal
lenge to Charles E. Hughes, the re
publican candidate for president, who
spoke here last night, to say what he
would do under the same conditions
that confronted the democratic admin
istration. He also asserted that Mr.
Hughes' election would mean control of
the government by what he called the
"standpatters." He said:
"The election of Mr. Hughes will out
the government under the control of the J RUssen T. Johnson, the young man
Typhus Again Menace
LAREDO, Texas. Sept. 22. That
typhus fever again is becoming a
serious menace throughout Mexico
was the statement todav of a pass
enger arriving from San Luis Potosi.
He said there were fullv fifty deaths
from the disease dailv in Stin Luis
Potosi, from 70 to 80 deaths daily in
Aguas Calientes. while the mortality
from typhus and smallpox at Zaca
tecas was approximately 100 daily.
The food shortage is close to thg
(Continued on Page Two)
Johnson Freed On Bond;
May Plead Self Defense
'standpatters' for the rule of senority
in the senate will confer the Important
chairmanship of the senate committees
upon such men as Boise Penrose of
Pennsylvania, Reed Smoot of Utah,
Warren of Wyoming and Lodge of Mas
sachusetts." The vice president denied that labor
had injured the country in pressing the
passage of the eight-hour bill.
Every bit of legislation passed by
any congress in response to demands of
labor had been wholesome and bene
ficial legislation.
"But the eight-hour law is not the
vital or paramount issue in this cam
paign, despite the efforts of Candidate-
Hughes to make it appear so, he said.
"The real issue is whether the presi
dent of the United States can con
tinue so to handle our foreign relations
as to keep our country at peace with
honor."
The vice president challenged the
republicans to say they would inter
vene in Mexico. - He criticised Mr.
Hughes for "finding fault" with the
president , and his acts without say
ing what he would have -done under
who shot and killed Eugene Car
ruthers at Gila Bend, Thursday,
walked out of the county jail last
night a free man, having given bail in
the sum of ten thousand dollars.
Young Carruthe's' father, E. T.
Carruthers. one of the most prom
inent men in the state, swore to a
warrant yesterday afternoon at Gila
Bend, charging Johnson with murder
in the srrond degree. The warrant
was made returnable before Justice
DeSouza of the West Phoenix pre
cinct. Sheriff Adams who was at Gila
Bend investigating the matter, brought
the warrant to Phoenix last night.
At ten o'clock, Johnson was taken
from the jail, conducted to Justice
DeSouza's office, where his honds
men, Tom Wills, of Feldman, and
John B. Ryland, of Tucson, both
wealthy cattlemen, met him. Justice
DeSouza fixed the bond at ten thou
sand, and Wills and Ryland attached.
their signatures to it.
Johnson who- is .of average height
and of a slight build, entered the
justice's office accompanied by Deputy
Sheriff Jim Murphy. He seemed not
to have a care in the world, and greeted
both Wills and Ryland with a smile.
He sat down beside Ryland, slapped
him on the leg, and with a laugh,
made some remark about his pres
ent predicament. He was wearing a
light brown suit, a large Stetson hat,
and wore hea.vy shoes.
As soon as the bond had been sign
ed, he arose and in company with
his bondsmen, his attorney. Kirk T.
Moore, of Tucson, and several friends,
departed for the Jefferson hotel whero
he spent the night.
Johnson will be arraigned before
Justice DeSouza this morning, at
which time the date of his examina
tion will be fixed at the 28th, next
Thursday.
It is not known what his plea will
be, but it was the general opinion
that it would be self defense.
The coroner's inquest held yester
day at Gila Bend, returned a verdict
that Carruthers "came to his death
from a gun shot wound inflicted by
a gun in the hands of Russell John
son." The jury made no effort to fix
the status of the crime committed.
