TirriUrial Li.r.rjl$OI
Counts
Mtna
VOL. XXXIV.
KINGMAN, ARIZONA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916
NO. 49.
CALIFORNIA L
WRECKED:
From Wrdnndmj'c Dailr Miner
Westbound train No. 3, known as
the California Limited, was wrecked
about 2 o'clock this morning while
rounding the curve on the Santa Fe
railroad about a half mile east of
Kingman. The engine and tender, buffet-baggage
car, dining car and one
Pullman sleeper left the tracks, rolling
down the embankment.
Engineer Goldson of Needles, Cal.,
was apparently instantly killed. His
body was found jammed in between
the top of the boiler and the roof of
the cab.
Fireman Mickey Osborne of Needles,
Cal., is missing. He is believed to be
buried beneath the wreckage.
Mrs. George Overmyer of Topeka,
Kan, who was on her way to Cali
fornia, was the only one of ten pas
sengers in the sleeper to sustain an
injury. Her left elbow is believed to
have been slightly fractured, as she
was unable to move it after being res
cued from the overturned car. All
other passengers in the Pullman, in
cluding Mrs. Overmyer's small son, es
caped injury.
The barber-baggageman of the train,
"whose name could not be learned, sus
tained a broken leg and arm and a
severe cut in the head.
The third cook and other members
of the dining car crew were badly
scalded by escaping steam from the
engine and some of them were other
wise severely injured. The exact na
ture of their injuries and their names
could not be ascertained.
The locomotive, after leaving the
.track and slipping down the embank
ment of the curve, rested almost up
side down.
The buffet-baggage car was badly
demolished. Passengers' trunks and
other baggage were strewn over the
ground for a radius of 50 feet. This
.ear remained upright after leaving the
track and was damaged in striking the
locomotive.
The dining car and Pullman sleeper
rested on their sides after leaving the
track and the occupants were rescued
through the windows.
R. J. Muncy of Winslow, head-end
brakeman, had a miraculous escape
from death. He was sitting on a trunk
in the baggage section of the buffet
baggage car when the crash came. He
was shot through the opening torn in
the front section of the car and landed
in the middle of the county road,
alongside of the track about 20 feet
from the car. His only injury was a
badly wrenched left shoulder.
The train was in charge of Conduc
tor Carl Wilkins of Winslow, who 'es
caped without injury.
Only a few passengers in cars in
the rear of those' that left the track
knew of the wreck until a considerable
time after it had occurred, being
awakened them by the commotion
caused by rescue parties that soon ar
rived at the scene from Kingman.
News of the wrecK was brought to
the station in Kingman by Conductor
Wilkins, who ran as fast as he could
to summon aid. Drs. Tilton and White,
together with Mrs. Tilton and other
local ladies, who acted as nurses, re
sponded quickly and were soon admin
istering to the injured. '
The cause of the v--reck was a mys-
tery to the trainmen, who said that
the train was not running at an un
usually high rate of speed. Some of
them gave it as their opinion that the
pony trucks of the locomotive jumped
from the track and caused the big
drive-wheels to follow, derailing the
engine and cars named. For a con
siderable distance the wooden ties
were badly gouged.
From Thursday'! Dailr Miner
The number of deaths resulting
from the wreck early yesterday
morning of Santa Fe westbound train
No. 3, known as the California
jLimited, on the sharp curve a half
mile east of Kingman, was increased
to four yesterday afternoon when
John Trnddick and William Dickens,
second and third cooks, respectively,
of the dining car destroyed in the
smash-up, expired while being con
veyed to Los Angeles. It is believed
that the other injured members of the
dining car crew and trainmen will re
cover. Truddick, whose entire body was
horribly scalded by escaping steam
from the overturned locomotive, died
M TED
FOUR KILL
y
day.
at Bagdad, Cal., while Dickens, who, j tj, f0uows directly upon resump
in addition to sustaining a fracture I . of at g50
of the skull immediately above the i ,
forehead, was badly burned about thefor several weeks whlle the PumP and
legs and feet, passed away as the train j larger plant were on the way. A few
bearing the injured approached New- days ago sinking was resumed and in
berry, CaL eleven feet revealed ore or something
Truddick's home was m Chicago, j closely resembling that desirable sub
while Dickens hailed from Colorado , stance.
Springs, Colo. Despite his terrible
injury, Dickens did not lose con
sciousness following his rescue from
the overturned dining car and freely
conversed with the physicians and by
standers while the former were ad-'
ministering medical aid. In response!
to questions at that time Dickens gave !
his full name and his address i
as 218 East Dale Street, Colorado!
Springs. j
With the dawning of day the body
of Fireman Mickey Osborne,, which
previously could not be found in the
wreckage, was discovered submerged
in a large pool of crude oil and water,
which escaped from the tender, near
the cabin of the demolished locomo
tive and within ten feet from where
the dead body of Engineer Ralph
Gholson was found jammed between
the top of the boiler and the roof
of the cab,
Osborne apparently fell i
from the cab as the loeomotivA hirnpH '
almost upside down after leaving the
track. The bodies of the engineer and j sured those who will attend this year's
fireman were taken about 9 o'clock j fair, both from an educational and en
yesterday morning to Needles, Cal., j tertainment standpoint The exhibits
their home, after they had been viewed this year from Apache, Coconino, Mo
by Coroner Cohenour and the, jury! have, Navajo and Yavapai counties
impaneled by him to inquire into the (will be more comprehensive and beau
wreck, j tiful than those of previous years.
Engineer Gholson was unmarried.! 0ver $2000 in cash prizes will be
His surviving relatives reside in theiawarded exhibitors in the mineral,
east Fireman Osborne was recently
married in the east and only a few
days ago completed arrangements for
'the purchase of a home in Needles,
to which he intended to bring his
hride from her eastern home in the
near future.
Although the cause of the wreck re
mains yet to be definitely determined,
it is the theory of railroad men and
practically all other persons who view
ed it yesterday that it was due to the
pony truck of the locomotive leaving exhibitor,
the rails as it rounded the curve at! Particular care has been given in
a speed estimated by surviving mem-! arranging the racing program and en
bers of thfe train crew to have been I tertainment . features at the fair
45 miles an hour. It is thought that grounds. Approximately $2500 will
the "ponies" became loose and, after I be hunS UP m y8' P10"
teaving the rails, forced the six bigS:rams- A brass band of 30 pieces will
drive wheels to follow. The pony'furnish concerts both at the fair
truck was found not less than 400 feetgrounds and on PIaza &e even-
from the locomotive. .
Extends Thanks I
j
Through the Daily Miner, Division
Superintendent J. A. Christie, on be-1
uuu. ui tne oantu re raiiroaa, wisnesi Keen jnterest is again centering
to express his appreciation of the uni-laround tetter babies contest, and
form kindness of the people of King-In,;- vear no doubt rfvow 11
man to trainmen and passengers of
train No. 3, which was wrecked yes
terday morning east of town. He also
wishes to thank those who worked he
roically in rescuing the people from
the cars and giving the injured aid
and attentidn.
WRIGLEY TONNEL
From Oatman Section Dailr Miner.
The tunnel of the Wrigley Ex
ploration company has made an ad-
uun were reSumeu aeon, two weeKS
ago. It is now in 175 feet, having
been 88when work was resumed.
The formation is trachyte, that
... . . ., , . ' ,
matenal appearing in the fonn of a
. . . , , ,. .
heavy flow covering a broad belt f or
several miles in that part of the camp.
Tt f. TisityI mt r. .!
2 x 1
tractors Fleming and Stitzer are
Mining Engineer C. H.James states Dur,,! "wompamea uiem 10 jungraan
that he never saw a plant work better. ! from Oatman. They expect to go out
It operates almost without noise and,10 Chloride today, in company with
more economically than any similar ,Tom Cornish, who has mining interests
sized plant in the district It uses a ; in that camP-
minimum "of crude oil.
N. E. Guyot secretary and manager
of the company, came over from King
man yesterday and visited the prop
erty. Mrs. C. B. Bell is in Kingman from
the Middle Golconda property to spend
a few days.
NELLIE STRIKES
VEIN IN SHAFT
The Nellie shaft is in almost solid
quartz at a depth of 361 feet What
the values are will be known early to
! Samples of the rock were brought
to town and one big chunk left at
the office of the Jewett-Robinson
Wollberg company attracted much at
tention and favorable comment.
FI CERTAIN TO BE
GREAT EXPOSITION
PRESCOTT, Ariz., Sept 19. The
fourth annual northern Arizona fair,
which is to be held at Prescott Thurs
day, Friday and Saturday, October 19,
20 and 21, 1916, is destined to prove
one of the most interesting expositions
ever staged by the five northern coun-
ties of Arizona. Elaborate nlans are
well under way and a rare treat is as-
live stock, agricultural, poultry, edu
cational and home economics depart
ments, besides beautiful premium rib
lions and many special prizes. The
high cash awards offered in the vari
ous sections give assurance that the
exhibits will be of the highest quality
possible. Expert judges from the Uni
versity of Arizona will have charge of
the examination and comparison of the
exhibits and the value of their ad
vice will be of great assistance to each
ing- Dances under the auspices of I
the fair association will be given each
. ......
evening and besides these attractions
a first class carnival company win
play during the three days' fiesta.
prove as exciting as that of last year.
Mothers desiring to enter their babies
should make it a point to communicate
early with this department From all
points in northern Arizona a one fare
railroad rate has been granted for the
round trip, and this alone insures one
of the largest crowds ever attendant
upon the fair. Copies of the prize
lists and programs can be procured by
addressing the Northern" Arizona Fair
association, Prescott
COCONINO COUNTY MEN
VISITING THIS COUNTY
George Babbitt, Joe Prochnow and
Fred Hensing of Flagstaff were call-
at the Daily Miner office last
evening. gentlemen had just re-
from 0atman where have
been ,ood -nto of
r,i a 1 j r-
Oatman Amalgamated Mining com-
, , 7 , ... ,
pany, and elected officers for the en-
.
SmF ear" .
were satisfied with the trend
j ui cvciilo m liic minus uuu expect w
' I push work to deeper levels. J. T.
W. C. Klein and wife drove out to
Golconda last evening, accompanied
by Mrs. James Dundon, to her home
at that place after a visit of several
days with relatives here.
George B. Ayers came in from Gold
road Thursday.
NEW PEOPLE TO
T IDBK AT
(From Oatman Section Daily Miner.)
The famous old Moss mine is to
become active -at once and on an ex
tensive scale. A deal has been con
cluded by A. C. Werden with the
people comprising the Venture com
pany, which developed the San Ger
trude and Camp Birds mines. With
Mr. Werden as superintendent the
work is to start soon on a double com
partment shaft to go down 600 feet.
It is stated that the same people
are to take up the Crossley option on
the old Hardy mine and start work
there also. The Crossley option would
have lapsed for want of work by next
February, but recently George Miller,
the owner, said work was to start
soon.
Mr. Werden has been unwatering
the Moss for several weeks. At the
same time it has been known that
some eminent' engineers representing
large financial interests were here
examining the property.
It also is stated on good authority
that Pittsburg people have taken a
bond on the Mossback property, out
near and east of the Moss, and will
start unwatering it quite soon. All
three are old producers and their ac
ticity means much to Oatman.
ERROR MADE RELATIVE
TO ARIZONA BUTTE MILL
tFrom Wfriridr'c Dailr Miner
An error crept into the story rela
tive to the Arizona Butte, in yester
day's issue of the Daily Miner, when
the statement was made that no zinc
concentrates were being secured. The
fact is that a fine grade of zinc is
being turned out from the tables, and
shipments are soon to be made to the
smelter. The separation between the
lead and zinc is clean, the lead giving
better than 71 per cent and the zinc
running well above 45 per cent The
error grew out of a misunderstanding
regarding the screens that were to be
used for the final cleanup of the ores
and which have not been adjusted to
a nicety. iThe greater part of the
zinc is secured from the tables that
take the pulp from the Huntington
mill.
E
FOR 0. E.
(From Oatman Section Daily Miner.)
A residence is being erected on an
eminence of the United Eastern prop
erty for Superintendent J. A. Burgess.
It will be one of the largest and most
complete homes in Oatman, costing
$3,000 and containing eight or nine
rooms. The frame work has been up
for several days and the task of in
closing it is under way.
Mr. Burgess has acted as his own
architect, planning the building ac
cording to modern ideas. The Con
tractors are Messrs. King and Major.
It is on the general lines of a bunga
low, and will have a great deal of
inclosed screen veranda space, with an
ample interior, conveniently arranged.
It is the expectation that three other
fine residences "will be started at once
for other United Eastern men. One
will be for W. O. Uorth, mill superin
tendent, another for B. C. Staiger,
mining engineer and the third for J.
B. Stratton who is employed in the
department of Secretary Wallace
Keith. They are to be built by the
individual employes, no arrangement
as yet having been made for company
houses. The last three structures re
ferred to are to be bungalows also and
well built, approaching in size the
Burgess residence.
THntD SCHOOL DEPARTMENT
George Long, school director, went
to Kingman yesterday to discuss with
the county supervisors the problem of
a third temporary room and the em
ployment of a third teacher for the
Oatman schools. The directors have
in view suitable quarters and with
financial arrangements and the proper
authorization they will proceed.
A. L. Kroeger returned yesterday
from a trip to the hills in the interest
of his firm.
S. T. Elliott came m on the morning
train yesterday from Long Beach,
California.
I
AZTEC STRIKE
Appreciation of the importance of
the strike in the Aztec shaft of the
Tom Reed, which has been felt more
by the people of Oatman than any
occurence for six months or more, is
shared in kind by the officials of the
company and the latter made no sec
ret of it N. P. Moerdyke, president
Charles Mushrush, vice president and
W. L. Lawrence, secretary, arrived
yesterday from Pasadena to inspect it
and they did not attempt to conceal
their enthusiasm.
"We have opened the ore for a
width of 20 feet," said Mr. Moerdyke,
"and no wall in sight yet We have
reason to believe that what we have
reached there is only a horse and by
going on through it we should find a
lot more ore.
"The values are not as high as first
reported, but they are very good.
The ore averages $15 a ton at that
point but is better in a drift that we
have started to make connection with
the Black Eagle. At one point it
averages $50.
"In fact, there is every reason to
believe that we are only on the top
of the ore shoot and that by sinking
deeper we will open something quite
equal to the published reports of $30
a ton average.
"We have only 65 feet of drifting
to make the connection with the Black
BIG LODE TO SINK
TO DEPTH FOR ORE
(From Oatman Section Dailr Miner.)
The return yesterday of Allan E.
Boyce from an extended stay on the
coast was the signal for renewed ac-1
tivity by the Oatman-Big Lode Mining
company, of which he is president
Work is to be pushed and increased
and will be continued until the value
of the property is proved.
Mr. Boyce states that all financial
matters are in hand and there will be
no cessation of work hereafter. The
shaft is down 80 feet, having been
sunk by hand steel. It will be con
tinued by such means for the time
being, but later it is the plan to have
compressed air and power drills.
At 65 foot point in the shaft, a
narrow stringer appeared, which
gave assays under $4 a ton, but which
grew richer with depth and widened
before finally pitching out of the
shaft to the dignity of a vein. The
shaft is being continued and will go
to the 500 foot point
Mr. Boyce says the talk on the
coast is all in favor of Oatman.
"You never hear a word against
the camp," he declared. "The opinion
of every one is that this camp is
going to make good and be a great
thing for the whole coast and the
great southwest, And the same is
true in the east There is big money
to be raised for mining in Oatman and
we are going to see great times here
this fall without a doubt"
TO PLAY BASEBALL
A baseball game between teams
captained by G. R. Franklin on the
one side and Judge John A. Ellis on
the other will be one of the worth
while events of the near future. The
game is to be played for the benefit
of the hospital fund and promises to
be one of the best ever seen in King
man. The Miner will in due time announce
the date of the contest and publish a
list of the players.
SECRET PASS COMPANY
COMPLETING ORGANIZATION
Elsewhere in these columns appears i
the articles of incorporation of the
Oatman-Revenue Mines company, j
which is being organized by A. J. '
Beecher of Oatman and associates.
The property of the company is lo
cated in the Secret Pass section and
is considered meritorious. Mr.
Beecher is one of the hustlers of that
section and will leave no stone un
turned in his effort to prove it one
'of the best properties in that country.
E
IMPORTANT FIND
Eagle, which will give us air connec
tion and show up the good milling
values which nave already been
opened there for over 300 feet That
will, be finished in a day or two.
"It appears to be bigger than any
thing previously struck in the Tom
Reed mine, larger, in fact, than the
old workings."
" At this juncture Mr. Lawrence was
introduced to the Daily Miner repre
sentative and he asked about condi
tions in Oatman. Being informed in
reply that the Aztec strike apparently
was doing more to restore confidence
among local people than anything
happening since the development of
the United Eastern, he said:
"Yes, and it will be justified by this
strike. Men who have seen it and
are acquainted with the characteristics
of the camp are convinced that we are
only at the apex of the shoot and
that our value below will a great
deal more than justify this better
feeling that you speak of. We are
going to sink deeper at once and find
out what there is underneath. It is
ouropinion that we have the greatest
deposit right there in the camp."
Both Messrs. Moerdyke and Law
rence stated that there was no ques
tion of there being a continuous shoot
from the Block Eagle to the United
Eastern.
y PUPILS IN
Kingman schools opened Monday for
the fall semester with the following
named teachers:
W. L. Linville, Kingman, principal;
Veda
Watkins, Kingman, assistant
principal; Augusta Drees, Oshkosh,
Wis.; Rachel Smith, LaHonde, N. M.;
Leona Hoffman, Kingman; Mary Wat
kins, Flagstaff; Gretchen Hathaway,
Chicago.
The high school has enrolled 35 pu
pils. The common school has the
largest enrollment in its history.
Within a short time the new high
school building will be constructed and
all of the schools will be housed under
its roof, allowing ample room for ex
pansion. ELKS' FUNERAL SERVICES
OVER VICTIMS OF WRECK
The members of Kingman lodge No.
-168, B. P. O. E. held the funeral
services of the order over the remains
of Engineer Gholson and Fireman
Micky Osborne, killed in the recent
railroad wreck near here, last even
ing at the chapel of the Van Marter
undertaking parlors here. The re
mains of both were sent east on No.
2 last night, A. W. Sheene, W. ft.
Carty and J. E. Clark, representing
the Elks, Firemen and Engineers,
accompanying the remains. The body
of engineer Gholson goes to La
! Hunta, Colorado, and fireman Osborne
to Logansport, Indiana, where Mrs.
Osborne his widow, resides. One of
the pathetic incidents of the death of
Engineer Gholson, was the finding of
a picture of a young girl among his
effects, and on the back of the photo
graph is the one word '"waiting".
Gholson and the girl were to soon be
"wedded, but the "waiting" will be
eternity.
Blaine Crozier and family came
down from their ranch at Crozier
yesterday to visit with relatives here
for several days.
Arthur Loo mis, who has been as
sociated with his father in the auto
stage business between here and
Chloride for some time, went to Los
Angeles last evening.
R. J. Harlan and wife are at home
again after a trip through the east-
ern part of this state, during which
they visited the Grand Canyon and
the other interesting points.
Rev. Thomas H. Dodd and wife re
turned Wednesday from a visit to
their former home in the east, where
they spent the major portion of the
summer.
Judge Sidney Sapp is in town from
Holbrook, arriving yesterday.
DECLAH
