-- - m
Sil i M f i '1' v i ' H
li,--l Che foamt Htmibliim !i! 1
jf W F P I M
SECTION ONE LOQAN CACHE COUNTY UTAH SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 23 1910 FOURTEENTH YEAR ! 'H
. ' ' .. ' 1 ' 1
I SfflT CACHE COUNTY FAIR EDITION PP ! I
V THE FAIR
By Douglas Malloch.
We wrest no subterranean store out of caverns deep and dark,
Nor with the blood-red hand of war make harvest of a na
tion's tears.
Ours is the wealth of God's good soil, and on his earth we leave
no mark.
But furrows of the farmer's toil.the business of a thousand
years.
Here we assemble what we grew, here we have gathered of the
yield,
The products of the work we do, our answer to the ones
who ask.
These arc the children of the seed, arisen in the fertile field,
A world of weary ones to feed a noble duty, honest task.
' Even in joy of labor done we have our hour for deeper thought,
To see the glory of the sun in smiling fruit and golden
grain ;
E'en in the frolic of the fair we realize how God has wrought
Till herds. increase and blossoms bear, fed by his sunshine
and his rain. ",,"r
All mindful of our work again another season yet to be,
Let us come forth rejoicing then to pass a merry week
away
Proud of the treasures that arc ours, with merriment and in
dustry Taking of earth both fruit and flowers, taking of life
both work and play.
L
WHY is a fair? We can't all answer that from a single
view-point. It means something different to practically
every one of us. There is no doubt, though, that the
feeling of gaycty is universal even to those who must
work like Turks to make the occasion a success.
The man or woman with a grouch has no business at our fair
this year. You must go prepared to enjoy the blare of band music
and the million noises that aren't music. You must be keyed up
to revel in the sight of thousands of chattering holiday makers, of
bright decorations, of pretty girls, of sideshows and ballyhoos, of
popcorn in red tissue and sweating glasses of orangeade, of sizzling
sandwiches and ice cream cones, of livestock and household and im
plement displays, of pattering trotters and pacers and running
horses, of buzzing grandstand, of golden sunshine and yellow dust
c'.ouds. Yes, and tired feet and wimpering babies with heat rash
and smart alecks here and there for we haven't reached the land
of perfection yet. '
Now let's peel the surface off the situation and sec what's in
side. This year's fair is going to be a pretty fine advertisement for
our whole community the surrounding farm lands and farmers,
the town and its enterprising, public-spirited merchants. And
really that is the rock-bottom purpose of holding a fair advertis
ing. It is a community aim and eftort to show its people how much
they amount to, and to show outsiders that this is a mighty good
place to live in prosperous, progressive country and neighborly
people. A man looking for a place in which to settle down couldn t
reasonably ask for anything more or better.
COURTESY TO VISITORS.
The folks of this community understand one another. Our
farmers know the town business men with whom they deal. Our
business men are pretty well acquainted with most of the people
who come into their stores. Now we want to show all of us our
spirit of kindliness and intelligence to the strangers within our
gates during the festival season. It is the best sort of advertising
we can put forth.
It is inestimably worth while to us if visitors go home and say:
"I always like to attend their fair. The whole town seems to wig-
I gle its latchstring at me. And they're the 'whitest' people! go
out of their way to be polite ready to give information or do a
little favor I'm certainly going back oftener and get acquainted
' with some of them."
In order further to answer the question which introduces this
article, we take down our handy reference book a large red vol
ume and turn to page 426. Therein we learn that the word "fair"
is derived from the Old French "feire," the modern French "foire,"
the Italian "fiera," the Latin "feria," meaning holiday, and that this
is connected with the Latin "festus," meaning feast.
Inyhe United States there are no fairs of the kind that have
been common in the Old World. The term here is applied to a
variety of exhibitions, such as church, charity and agricultural ex
hibitions, and local, state, national, or international expositions or
fairs. The fact is, the term is applied to all exhibitions where
people are expected to bestow patronage or make purchases.
BITS OF FAIR HISTORY.
The most common kinds are agricultural fairs county and
state, as you know. This kind got their start as a regular thing in
America in 1819. At Albany. N. Y there was a prosperous mer
chant, Elkanah Watson, who believed that such an enterprise
would encourage farming and manufacturing and help business.
He used his influence with the state legislature, and that body ap
propriated $10,000 yearly, for six years, for premiums on agricul
tural products and family manufactures.
Since then annual county, district and state fairs arc quite gen
erally held. The district and county fairs especially are held, not
mainly for the sale of goods, but for advertising purposes as we
have said. City street fairs, where amusements of various kinds
are furnished, are intended to promote the welfare of the city by
attracting traders to them. The same goes for world's fairs which
are held in this country. While commodities arc sold, the primary
object is to advertise.
In the Old World the fair or bazaar is an ancient institution.
If we could find files of the daily papers and country weeklies when
old Mr. Pharaoh was kinging for a living, when Professor Plato
was discoursing on pure democracy and the what and how of a
republic, when the thousand and one events of the Arabian Nights
Entertainments were being worked out, we should probably find
articles like this one an editor's write-up of the annual fair in his
town.
BARTER AND EXCHANGE PLACES.
People throughout Europe look upon the fair as a nieetitlg
held for the purpose of exhibiting and selling goods. Originally
fairs were held at stated times and places, some for the sale of a
particular class of merchandise, others for the sale of goods of a
general character. People resorted to them to exchange goods and
collect their stores to last for several months. Princes and the
magistrates of cities encouraged them and some of the privileges
granted long ago still remain in force.
Such fairs as these flourish today on the outskirts of civiliza
tion, as in Siberia, Manchuria, Asiatic Turkey, where people live
isolated for long stretches of time and do their buying no oftener
than once or twice a year. They originated in the church festivals,
which were found to afford the best opportunity for commercial
transactions, the concourse of people being such as took place upon
no other occasions.
OTHER EUROPEAN PRACTICES
In some parts of Europe persons of all ranks still wait for the
great annual fairs to make their principal purchases of articles of
every description. This applies especially to parts of Europe
where trading facilities including transportation, advertising an
nouncements and the like are not as highly developed as in all
parts of America today.
One of the most noted old fairs was that of Saint Bartholomew
in London, founded at the beginning of the twelfth century.
The greatest fairs in Germany arc those of Frankfort, Leipzig
and Brunswick. Other noted and historic fairs held yearly or semi
annually in Europe are those of Zurzach, Switzerland; Budapest,
Hungary; Sinigaglia, Italy; Lyons, France (before the war), and
Nizhni-Novgorod, Russia. The last named yearly attracts buyers
from all parts of Europe and central and northern Asia, and mer
chandise worth $100,000,000 changes hands. At Mecca, in Arabia,
the fair is held in connection with the annual pilgrimage of Mo
hammedans, and is one of the most picturesque in the world.
We hope this array of solemn facts all guaranteed to be reas
onably true will not put a damper on your frivolous mood and
spoil our own fair for you. Doll up in your gayest drapery and set
your heart on having a regular picnic this year just like the year
you were sixteen and had a sweetheart ; when you had tintype pic
tures made together and exchanged them. Remember the Cache
County Fair will be held four days this year, September 27 28 29
and 30.
(q) if ffi Vr i 6))
v iv " s'ffi HI
; ; II
