France-British Forces on Somme Are Prep
HARRISBUKG ifllSllgl TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 221
RATIFYING VOTE
• CALLING GREAT
GENERAL STRIKE
Labor Chiefs Have Asked All
Union Wage-Earners to
Stay at Home
S T A R T S WEDNESDAY
750,000 Men and Women Af
fected ;Want Trolleymen
Recognized
New York, Sept. 23. Trade unions
in this city and West Chester county
to-day began to vote on the question
of ratifying the action of eighty dele
gates who yesterday called for a "gen
eral suspension of work" next Wed
nesday morning. The labor chiefs ap
pealed to all union wage earners to
stay at home until the traction com
panies make it possible for them to
ride in the street cars without offense
to their union allegiance.
It is asserted that no such action
heretofore has been taken by the trade
unions of this country nor has a strike
involving so many trades ever been
called. Its maximum effect would call
from work 750,000 men and women.
Leaders of the movement refrain
from calling it a sympathetic strike.
They declare that many of the unions
already have voted to ratify their rec
ommendation and that any union man
who does not quit work Wednesday
will be denounced as a traitor.
To what estent they expect the
unions to respond to the suspension
call was not disclosed. It is pointed
out that Wednesday is the beginning
of an important Jewish holiday when
many workers ordinarily would stay
at home.
The call for a cessation of work is
based on the grievance that men of
union affiliations cannot ride to their
employment except in cars manned
by nonunion conductors or motormen
and under the protection of the po
lice.
Holds Her Dead Baby
With a Broken Arm
Bowmanstown, Pa., Sept. 23.
Charles Simpson, a loektender for the
Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company
at Hazard, saved Mrs. Rebecca Knop
penberger and her twelve-year-old
son from drowning in the canal.
Mrs. Knoppenberger, her son and a
two-month-old baby were crossing the
bridge at the Hazard lock when their
horse took fright and backed over the
bridge Into the canal, which is twelve
feet deep. Simpson brought Mrs.
Knoppenberger to the shore with her
baby in her arm and again plunged
into the canal for the boy, who was
resuscitated after an hour's hard
work.
On examining the baby the mother
found it was dead in her arms, its
neck having been broken when the
carriage fell from the bridge. Mrs.
Knoppenberger also found that the
arm with which she held the child
was broken, but she had not relaxed
her hold on the little one for a mo
ment- She is in the Palmerton hos
pital and is in a critical condition. The
horse freed itself from the carriage
and swam ashore.
Demands Pound of Flesh
and Is Held For Grand Jury
Vineland. N. J., Sept. 23. A. Pi
tel was held for the grand jury after
a hearing by Justice of the Peace M.
Florentino, on a charge of climbing
on the fish wagon of Jacob Lazaroff
and threatening to tear Lazaroff's skin
off if he did not pay a debt of sl4
Lazaroff was represented bv a lawyer
who made the following plea:
"Imagine the anxiety of my client
who, if an automobile party had not
come along, might have had his skin
torn off and the hide sold to pay the
debt, and he left to die clothesless,
skinless, horseless, wagonless and fish
less in the road.
LINCOLN'S GRANDDAUGHTER
WEDS
London, Sept. 23. Gertrude Aimes
Lincoln, of Los Angeles, Cal., was
married at Hellingly, near Eastbourne
to-day to Lieut. Arthur Lett Haines,
of the Royal Field Artillery. Local
newspapers say she is a granddaugh
ter of Abraham Lincoln.
[THE WEATHER,
For Harrlabtirß nud vicinity: Fair
tu-nicbt ujiu *undu>s fcomcvvliiit
cooler to-night.
For Eastern Penuaylvania: Fair
to-night and Sunday; somewhat
cooler to-niubt; gentle to moder
ate west wind*.
lliver
Tlie Susquehanna river nnd It*
branchex will riae slightly or re
main nearly atationar.v. A Matte
of about 8.(1 feet I* Indlca.ed to,
HarrLsburK Sunday morning.
_. . General Conditions
The l.ake disturbance 1h moving
Mlowlj- eastward with decreasing
energy and la now central near
♦.eorglan bay. It has caused
Hhonera In the lawt twenty-four
hours generally from the western
border of the Great l-ake, east-
Jl'.T.. °.\ evl Fnglund and In the
Middle Atlantic .Mutes, the Ohio
\ alley and Tennessee and In tue
Interior of North Carolina! else
where fair Heather has prevailed
throughout the territory pictured
<ii. the map, except in Nevuda and
scattered *ho>veri.
There has been a general fall or a
to 18 degrees In temperature In
the Great Central Valleys, over
the greater part of the Lake He
g-ion and the Pacific slope and In
the Western Caiadian provinces.
Along the Immediate Atlantic
coast. In the Rocky Mountains
and along tL* Guir coast tem
peratures are slightly higher than
on 1< riday morning.
Temperature: 8 u. m., 58.
Sun: Klses, 5:83 a. m.| sets, 0:03
p. m.
River Stage I Three feet above low
water mark.
Moon i New moon. September 27.
2:34 a. ni.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 77.
Lowest temperature, 55.
Mean temperature. <l.
Normal temperature. U3
BY CARRIERS 0 TEXTS A WEEK.
SINULE COPIES 2 CENTS.
ALLIES PREPARE
TO CLOSE THEIR
GRIP ON COMBLES
Important Town on Albert-
Pcrrone Railroad Is Vir
tually in Pocket
AIRMEN ARE ACTIVE
59Combats Over Somme Lines;
French Aviator Flies to Rhine,
Dropping Roinbs
Apparently the Franco - British
forces on the Somme are preparing
to close their grip on Combles, the
important town on the Albert-Peronne
Railroad, six miles northwest of
Peronne, which has been virtually
pocketed by the allies in their recent
operations.
Last night the French War Office
reported the capture of a small forti
fied position and some trench sections
close to Combles and to-day it an
nounces the French patrols have
penetrated still nearer the edge of the
town, bringing back prisoners. Raid
ing operations such as these are
commonly precludes to more compre
hensive and forceful movements.
On the French front south of the
Somme the artillery is active, prob
ably in preparation for further as
saults.
50 Aerial Fights
Airmen on both the British and
French section of the line have been
busy. Yesterday French aviators took
part In 56 aerial engagements, in
which four German machines were
shot down.
British naval aeroplanes have raid
ed important German aviation sta
tions in Belgium, inflicting notable
damage upon the aerodrome at St.
Denis Westrem according to the Brit
ish official report.
A French aviator has visited the
Rhine region and dropped bombs in
the Palatinate and also at Mannheim,
where Paris reports large fires and
several explosions were caused.
Greek Situation Complex
The Greek situation continues com
plex. A belated Athens dispatch re
ports that definite proposals have been
made to the entente acceptance which
will insure the entry of Greece into
the war.
Former Premier Venlzelos is
quoted as declaring that if the gov
ernment controlled by the court party
does not act, the nation itself must de
fend its own interests.
The revolutionary fever is reported
spreading but a mutiny on one of
the ships of the Greek navy, the
armored cruiser AverofT, is declared
to have been quelled.
Seek to Recover Possession
of Baby Taken From Them to
Hospital For Plague Victims
New Tork, Sept. 23.—Mr. and Mrs.
Anton Anderson, of Jamaica, Long
Island, engaged counsel to-day to re
cover possession of their son, Robert,
19 months old, who was taken from
their home yesterday by police and
health department employes to the
Queensboro Hospital for Contagious
Disease, as a victim of infantile pa
ralysis.
Agents of the health department
and policemen had besieged the An
derson home for thirty-six hours be
fore they were able to obtain admis
sion." Mrs. Anderson has declared
that her family physician informed
her that the child was suffering only
from lameness after an attack of ma
laria and she declined to allow him
to be taken away. Yesterday, she in
advertently left the door open and a
policeman entered. Mrs. Anderson
said he declared he had a warrant for
the child's removal. She then sur
rendered and carried the child to the
ambulance. Although the Anderson
home has been under quarantine for
several days, the family physician said
Robert has no trace of infantile pa
ralysis.
Another British Steamer
Seized by Germans
Berlin, Sept. 23, by Wireless.
The capture by the German sea forces
of the British steamship Colchester
on Tuesday night was reported to-day
by the Overseas News Agency. The
Colchester was taken to Zeebrugge,
Belgium.
This is the third time the Germans
have announced the capture of Brit
ish steamships engaged in traffic be
tween England and the continent. On
June 16 the steamship Brussels was
captured by German destroyers and
taken with her passengers into Zee
brugge. The Brussels' captain, Charles
Fryatt, was put to death on the
charge that he had attempted to ram
the German submarine. In July the
British steamship Lestris, from
Liverpool, was seized by German
warships not far from the English
coast.
PRTNZ HFN Dlini TAKEN
London, Sept. 23. The steamer
Prinz Hendrik, which left London
last night for Flushing, has been
taken by the Germans to Zeebrugge,
Belgium, says a Reuter dispatch from
the Hague to-day.
Two steamers named Prinz Hendrik,
both of Dutch nationality are listed in
marine records, one being a vessel of
1,968 tons gross and the other a
steamer of 1,24 4 tons.
FRENCHMAN FLIES TO RHINE
Paris, Sept. 23. Plying nearly 100
miles beyond the German border,
Flight Warrant Officer Baron last
night bombarded the important works
at Ludwigshafen, in the Palatinate on
the Rhine and at Mannheim, across
the river from Ludwigshafen. The
official report of to-day says the
bombardment caused a large tire and
several explosions at Mannheim.
SOON FOLLOWS SON
Dublin, Sept. 23, via London.—A. J.
Kettle, a veteran Nationalist, died to
day, less than a week after receiving
news that his son, Lieut. Thomas M.
Kettle, professor of economics in the
, National University, had been killed
tin action.
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916.
- :
RECENT COLLEGE GRADUATES 1
. J
ROBERT O. CONANT GORDON J. PLATT FRED P. SCHLICHTER
HUGHES CAPTURES
MIDDLE WEST
Makes Six Addresses; Voice Is
Hoarse; Assails Extravagance
of the Democrats
South Bend, Ind., Sept. 23.—Charles;
E. Hughes to-day closed the second
week of his Middle Western campaign
trip. He left South Bend at 8.45 j
o'clock to fill a program that called
for six short speeches and an address
to-night at Indianapolis. Mr. Hughos
spent the night here. His voice, which !
became very hoarse during the stren- j
uous trip of yesterday, still was in bad 1
condition.
The chiel speech of the day will be I
delivered at Gary, where the nominee 1
will spend more than two hours, leav
[ Continued on Pape 7]
TWO KILLED IN AUTO CRASH j
New York, Sept. 23.—1n an auto- i
mobile acident in the Bronx to-day j
Alois Hannak, 30 years old, buyer for ;
a cloak and suit house in San Fran- '
Cisco, and Edward F. Rohn, 33, a'
policeman, were killed. The machine j
in which they and four companions I
were riding struck a telegraph pole, j
skidded and crashed into a tree. I
Hannak's skull was fractured. The j
other four men, including Morris I
Reich of San Francisco, were not in-!
jured.
f \l
SUBSCRIBERS TO NEW HOTEL
Following is a list of subscribers to the new hotel for Har
risburg, complete to date except for stock pledged to members
of the Rotarv Club committee, which will not be reported be
fore next week: ,
SSO.OOO—E. Z. Wallower, W. S. Schleisner.
Hildrup, Jr. and D. E. Tracey. S2.ooo—George A. Gorgas, C. S.
$25,000 —E. J. Stackpole, E. S. L °ng, Frank Wltman.
Herman, H. Gilbert & Son, W. P. sl,soo—Dr. W. S. Hurlock.
T.-.i ... r >„i i Sil.oo0 —George A. Shreiner, W.
i 5' vr-ifJor ni™. B - McCaleb, Robert A. Enders,
Stewart ' ' TaUal * & Son ' Dr ' J ' W " Ellen
e. -on nil ' x T Merger, Casper Dull, Daniel Dull,
fclo.OOO—Bowman & Co. and J. A H Bailey. Lescure, Snavely &
oinnnn „. . . 0 Co., E. G. Hoover, John A. Rose,
slo,ooo .A. Kunkel, Samuel E G roSßi Miss Caroline Pearson,
Kunkel, Wm. Jennings, Chas. L. Miss Mary Harris Pearson, F. B.
overt, Romberger Bros., A. Car- Musser, Elmer E. Lawton, Harry
SO c- i i T-. Kelley and Walter Montgomery.
So,ooo—Robt. McCormlck, Don- ssoo Dr. Croll Keller. A. C.
aid McCormlck, Anne McCormlck, Mea d, Charles Cttley, J. L. Berg
(\ . Burtnett, Doutrich & Co., streamer, T. T. Wierman, C. E. Ra.ir
Paul Johnston, Frank Payne. S. S. & S on, the Rev. James F. Bullitt
Pomeroy, Dr. R. H. Moffett, J. and J. E. Slothower.
Grant Schwam, E. S. Gerberich. s3oo—Fred S. Lack.
John E. Fox, Est. John Oenslager. $250 —R. A. Fairlamb and C. C.
$3,000 —David Kaufman, Chas. Cranford.
S. Ball, Frank J. Hall. s2oo—Rudolph Spicer and Mrs.
s2.soo—Vance C. McCormick, Rudolph Spicer.
Henry B. McCormick, Geo. W. SIOO —W. W. Stanford and
Reily, Samuel P. Eby, W. B. Charles Adler.
J
IS FALL HERE? ALMANACS SAY YES
BUT FORECASTER DEMAIN SA YS NO
Days and Nights Not Equal Until September 26 in This Lati
tude Points Out Weather Bureau Head
Something has gone wrong with the
almanacs. To-day was fixed as the
official opening day of the autumn
season. Four different almanacs give
this schedule. The time fixed for the
passing out of summer was 4 o'clock
this morning. But I>ocal Forecaster
E. R. Demain says the almanacs are
wrong—even that old reliable publi
cation known as Baer's Almanac.
According to Mr. Demain, autumn
will not start until September 26. He
Lansing and Baker
Discuss Mexican Affairs
Wshington, Sept. 23. Secretary
Lansing and Baker to-d,ay discussed
various phases of Mexican affairs, in
cluding: the renewed activity of Villa
and the possibility of his again becom
ing a military factor. While await
ing official versions from the Oarran
za government of the fighting at Chi
huahua city a week ago officials
said the report of Brigadier General
801 l , at El Paso, was the most re
liable yet received.
"I believe Villa is alive," said Major
General Scott, Chief of staff. "We have
had numerous reports of circumstances
corroborating such belief."
General Scott said he would not ask
General Bell the source of his inform
ation regarding the Chihuahua City
fighting and that he had no reason to
believe it was not reliable.
EARTHQUAKE RECORDED
Washington, D. C., Sept. 23. An
earthquake estimated to havo occur
red 23 00 miles distant from Washing
ton was recorded early to-day on the
seismograph at Georgetown Univer
sity. The shock lasted from 12:49 to
1:20 this morning and was moderate
in intensity.
INCREASE STAFF
AT HBG. ACADEMY
Local Preparatory School
Opens For Registration
September 29
Coincident with the announcrtent
by Headmaster Arthur E. Brown that
the Harrisburg Academy will have
Sept. 29, goes the additional lnter
! staff for the opening of school on
October 2, goes the additional intor
{ esting fact that the academy is pric-
I tically filled and that no more hoys
j will be accepted than can be properly
j supervised and instructed. Young
! men have been registered for the
j coming year in the boarding den.\rt
i ment from New York city. Philadel
phia, Washington, D. C., Pittsburgh,
Auburn, Nebraska, Atlanta, (ia.. .la
nan, South America, France. England,
China and other far away points.
The policy of the local institution
I has been to employ only experienced
i masters selected from the alumni o?
| the great universities of the country,
j This year Headmaster Brown has add-
Jed to his staff two Dartmouth men
I and one Cornell man.
Robert O. Conant, of Dartmouth,
class of 1912, Yale Graduate school
I 1913-14, has been teaching university
I work for the past two years. At Al
j legheny college he was employed dur
[Continued on Page 7]
says that the fall does not start of
ficially until the date when the day
and night are equal. This year the
sun rises at 5.58 a. m. and sets at 6.58
p. m. on September 26. The local
weather observer added:
"According to my figures, Harris
burg is in the lattiude of 40.16. My
records show that it will be three da.\s
before the eqifinoxial period is here.
There may be some latitudes calling
for the start of autumn to-day.
Uses Whip on Husband
and Beauty in Theater
Pittsburgh, Pa., Sept. 23. Mrs.
Edwin S. Lowrie, 61, a prominent so
ciety woman of the North Side, wield
ing a heavy riding crop, administered,
a severe beating to her wealthy hus
band, E. S. Lowrie, and his pretty,
fashionably dressed young woman
companion in a Carson street movie
theater last night. In the uproar that
followed the opening of the attack
,four women in the audience fainted
and one of them, Mrs. Mary Taz
meyer, Is in a serious condition.
A hurried call sent to the South
Side police station resulted in the
arrest of Lowrie and his wife. The
companion of Lowrie, despite the fact
that she was badly cut up by the
heavy whip, managed to escape.
Lowrie to-day declared that the
attack was all a mistake. He said:
"I entered the theater alone and
sat down near a woman who was a
perfect stranger to me. When my wife
oame In and saw me sitting near the
woman she probably imagined that
the woman was a friend of mine and
beeame Jealous. The attack followed."
WILSON OPENS
PORCH CAMPAIGN
Will Address Large Delegation
at Shadow Lawn Late This
Afternoon
Long Branch. N. J., Sept. 23. —Presi-
dent Wilson's program to-day called
for the first of a series of speeches he
plans to deliver at Shadow Lawn in
liis "porch campaign" for re-election.
He planned to address a large dele
gation of New Jersey business men on
the attitude of his administration
toward American business.
The general public was to be ad
mitted to the Shadow Lawn estate to
hear the President's speech and sev
eral thousand people were expected to
b® present. Business men from vari
ous sections of New Jersey began ar
riving for the reception and speech
early this morning.
Walter Hines Page, American am
bassador to London, who arrived here
late last night, remained over this
morning to discuss with the President
British interference with American
trade and mails. The President in
formed him fully of the resentment in
this country over British restrictions
on neutral commerce.
President Wilson to-day accepted an
invitation to deliver an address at
Omaha October 5. Complete arrange
ments have not been made for the trip,
but it is expected that he will arrange
his schedule so that he can make
speeches in one or more other cities.
MANY SUBSCRIBE
FOR HOTEL STOCK
E.Z. Wallower and Rotary Club
Committeemen Find Ready
Response
"The now hotel movement is com
ing along in a most encouraging man
ner," said E. Z. Wallower, chairman of
the Chamber of Commerce hotel com
mittee, to-day. "It is all now a ques
, tion of presenting the matter to those
who should become interested in it.
Stock solicitation is so easy that in
, many cases those who are doing the
work have only to approach pros
| pective investors. It is largely a ques-
I tion of how much each man believes
he can afford to put into the com
| pany."
In this respect Mr. Wallower said
that while the committee of the Cham
ber of Commerce and that of the Ro
tary Club will strive within the next
week or two to get into touch with
practically every prospective investor
in Harrisburg, much unnecessary labor
may be avoided if those who intend to
go Into the hotel project send their
subscriptions to J. William Bowman,
president of the Chamber of Com
merce, to Mr. Wallower, or to John S.
Musser, chairman, or any of the mem
bers of the Rotary Club committee.
The Rotary Club is making an effort
to line up every mmeber of the club
before the next meeting of the com
mittee on Tuesday evening. Mr. Mus
ser said this morning that almost
every one of the subcommittfes has
met with unlooked for success and
that mos tof them have far exceeded
expectations. The campaign is being
continued vigorously and the subcom
mittees are out all over town to-day
taking subscriptions. The fact that
payments will be made in quarterly
instalments over a period of fifteen
months makes it easy for those who
havo decided to put money into the
enterprise.
VANDALS DAMAGE FIRE
APPARATUS
York, Pa., Sept. 23.—Repeated de
facts which developed recently in the
new motor apparatus of the Vigilant
and Goodwill Fire Companies, of
York, has led to the discovery that
vandals had placed ground emery in
the greasecups and oil and clogged
the radiators with bits of rubber. No
reason can be assigned for the act
which has caused serious damage to
the costly fire apparatus.
GREEKS IX MUTINY REPORT
London, Sept. 23. Athens is fill
ed with rumors that 300 men of the
crew of the cruiser Averoft have
mutionied, accoding to a dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph Company.
The report says that the remainder of
the crew and detachments of marines
were sent away in boats. Other ships
of the fleet are said to have quelled
the mutiny. The Averoff is an armor
ed cruiser built in 1910. She car
ries a crew of 550 men.
CONFERENCE POSTPONED
New London, Conn., Sept. 23. No
Joint meeting of the Mcxlcan-Amer
lcan Commissioners was held here to
day, as only clerks and other at
taches expected to remain in town.
Secretary and Judge Gray of
the American delegation planned a
cruise, and other members of the
Joint body are in New York and Bos
ton.
CITY WINS F
CONDEMN PROPERTY
IN "HARDSCRABB
Way Now Opened For Beautification of River Front Be
tween Herr and Colder Streets; Question of Damage
Awards Must Be Settled on Appeal From Viewers'
Award by Jury
CITY MUST PROVE EXEMPTION
RIGHTS ON ITS 1871 CLAIM
Judge McCarrell Dismisses All Objections to Method of
Procedure With Exception of One Pertaining to Lia
bility For Improvements Made Since Act of '7l, Which
Is Left Open For Adjudication
Hardscrabblc ' property owners lost out in their legal battle
against the city's method of condeming their properties incident to
the proposed opening of Front street to low water mark of the
Susquehanna between Calder and Herr streets.
The question of amount of damages to be awarded in each
case must be settled on appeal from the viewers'award by a Com
mon Pleas jury.
The city of Harrisburg at th at time must prove to the satis
faction of court and jury its con tention that the municipality is
exempt from damages for improv emcnts made after January 2,
11 8/ 1.
In brief this Is the substance of an i
opinion handed down to-day bv Addi
tional Law Judge S. J. M. McCarrell, 1
of the Dauphin county courts, in the
legal fight that has been waged in the
courts for nearly two years.
Dismisses Objections
The court dismissed all the objec
tions to the method of procedure with
the exception of that one pertaining
to the question of the municipality's
liability for damages for improvements
made since 1871—the time of the en
LAFFERTY APPOINTED TO COAL COMMITTEE !
Philadelphia, Sept. 23.—Edwin J. Lafferty, of this city,- ►
was to-day appointed by Governor Brumbaugh, member of the 1 *
commission to investigate the increase in the price of anthra- '
! cite coal, to succeed the late C Tyson Kratz, of Norristown.
, pThe other members are R. S. Gawthrop, of West Chester, and" I
John Langdon, of Huntingdon. Mr. Lafferty is secretary and >
, treasurer of a coal company.
I
J ROME SAYS VON MACKENSEN IS IN RETREAT ,
i * Rome, Sept. 23, via London. The retreat of the German' '
army under Field Marshal Von Mackensen in the Rumanian '
province of Dobrudja continues, according to a telegram re-
J iceived by the Wireless Press to-day from Switzerland The' '
Danube fortress of Silestria recently captured by the Germans >
I and Bulgarians is said to have been abandoned to the Russian
< Rumania forces. I ►
< ADMIT TEUTONS ARE BEING ATTACKED * f
J Berlin, Sept. 23, via London. Russian and Rumanian
< troops in Dobrudja have been attacking Field Marshal Vonl *
Mackensen's forces on both flanks of the battle line, according' 1
ito the war office announcement to-day. The attacks, which on' '
the one flank were near the Danube and on the other south
west of Toprai Sari, 14 miles southwest of Constanza, were re
pulsed. I i
GREECE MAY DECLARE WAR ON BULGARIA £
Athens, Sept. 21, via London, Sept. 23.—The Greek gov- 1
ernment is said on the best authority to have telegraphed defi
nite proposals to the entente capitals which, if accepted will* [
mean Greece's entry into the war. If the uncertainty of the'
relations between Greece and the entente continues it is re
garded as not improbable that Greece may declare war on i
Bulgaria on her own account. ,
;>
BRITISH CAPTURE MORE TRENCHES
£ London, Sept. 23. German trenches on a front of about' '
a half mile east of Courcelette in the Somme region were cap
, tured by the British last night, the war office announced to
i k day ' <!
FINDS BULLET IN BED , ,
Steelton.—When Nick Majanovic, 777 South Third street
! awoke this morning he found a flattened bullet on his pillow'
, jNick later found a hole where the ball had come through
side of the house. It is believed some foreigner was celebrat
I ing.
;• 1 '
~ MARRIAGE LICENSES , >
I.ealey Haley and Fannie Smith, Steelton.
Howard Mnnnfleld Kldrldffe. clly, nnd Catherine Ethel nice, Lefcanoa.
1 Henry Knuppel and I.nura French Sherrr.an, city.
, | Gilbert Ualor Honnafou* and Irene Booth, city. I )
M'W" M W" >
CITY EDITION
16 PAGES
actment of a law which authored ths
inying out o£ the section of the street
In fiuestlon.
Nor does the court adjudicate this
question, but sets its aside, as it were,
for future consideration in the follow
ing concluding paragraph:
Krery exception has been care
fully considered and is now over
ruled, with the exception of the
one relating to the nubility of the
[Continued on Vago IS]
