ONE OF THEM
THERE ARE V I.OT OK KI'NXY THINGS IS THIS
WOKI.It. AETKR AM. WE IH> NOT ( I.AIM THAT
Ml TT VNI> JEET ARE THE ONLY ONE 111 I' THEY
MAKE THOI'BANI>B I.AIOH IN KEATTI.E EAOII
DAY.
POISON AND FIRE KILL WOMAN
CORONER SOLVES MYSTERY OF SUICIDE NEAR COUNTRY CLUB
t
TELEPHONE OPERATOR'S JOB IS NO SNAP
Former "Hello Girl" Gives Few "Don'ts" That Will Make Things Much Easier
By Cynthia Grey
How would you like to be a telephone
girl?
How would you like to spend one day in
the perpetual buzz of hundreds of chattering
voices in front of a board that fairly dazzles
with its popping lights?
i How would you like to say, "Number,
please?" in an angel-sweet voice in response
to 2,000 calls a day ?
How would ..you like to let every one call
you anything, and still keep smiling 5
It's the Life of Seattle Hello GirU
It's the life of the girl behind the busy switchboard
in Seattle's telephone office.
It's the life that stretches nerves to the breaking
point, exhausts hearing and dulls bright eyes.
It's the life that more than 800 girls in Seattle are
following!
What's the inside story of it? Is it hard?
Mrs. Glen Die*, who spent several months in the city
telephone office before her marriage, has me some of
the "dope." 1 pass it on in hope that it may help the public
and the girls.
HE CALLED HER DOWN
In relating her experiences on the switchboard. Mrs. Die*
said: "I remember one evening when I went in on a line
and said. 'Number, please?' I could hear someone talking
tto another person, but 1 couldn't (jet any response Again
ft said. 'Number, please?' At last 1 heard a voice say, 'I
Vant Central.' 'This is Central.' 1 answered He said, 'Don't
apeak so d cross; you've got the biggest snap in the
city.' I wondered at the time, a* I have many times since,
how many people actually think that a telephone operator's
job it the easiest in the city."
For the sake of hundreds of operators I want the public
to read this. Just imagine saying. "Number, please?" the
live-long day. And all the time you know there is a super
visor on the line waiting to catch you in a mistake
Someone is always calling for better service It is »p to
the public as much as to the girls to bring tin* about.
DON'TS FOR EVERYBODY
If YOU want your number quicker, and your connection
on the wire clearer, read these "don'ts" which Mr- Dies lia
aet down, and .heed: -
PRISONER OUT:
JUDGE WAITS
"Dr." Allen Strolls Streets
at Jurist Prepares
Sentence
SORRY TO MISS HIM
While Superior Judge Frater.
Deputy Prosecutor H*ls*ll and
aeversl court attache* waited
for two hour* Saturday morn
ing for the arrival from tha
county Jail of -Dr." Percival V.
Allen, who wai to hav* b**n
aenteneed. It d*v*lop*d later
the "doctor" waa out enjoying
a constitutional In th* r*fr**h-
Ing breexea.
At 9.15 the sheriff's office was
notified to produce Allen In court
to receive sentence for a statutory
crime Involving Miss Anna VI
Danlelson. with whom Allen lived
a* ber husband here prior to her
'mysterious death. July 15.
. Altho an Investigation I* said tr>
be going on to determine whether
Miss Danlelaon was murdered,
"Dr." Allen was not to be found st
the county Jail.
' The doctor' Is out," said Jailer
Hally.
At 11:15, Judge Frater slid he
couldn't wait longer for Allen to
w drop In. and left the courtroom
A few minutes later "Dr" Alter,
appeared, looking refreshed and
vigorous. He seemed greatly dls
I appointed at having mls»ed the
' Judge.
Helaell said Allen might return
again neit Saturday and rerfive
the penalty. If he could find time
SNOHOMISH FARMER
HAS 8-FOOT VINE
Andrew Grenler, a Sno
homish, Waeh., farmer, reading
of the record length of potato
vine* In Seattle, ha* *ent a vine
to The Star which he bellevee
I* the talleat vine in hi* district.
It meaiure* 3 feet, but la 10
Inches *hy of the record set by
John Thlel's vine grown at
Klrkland.
ACTION WAS started In the fed
eral court Saturday by the t'nlfed
States again<t 'he '!r<»at Northern
railroad, i-hargln:? that a tt#n erf*
wan worked loner than the legal
JShour limit.
DON'T FAIL TO START THE RANDALL PARRISH NOVEL WHICH BEGINS IN THE STAR MONDAY
Tabby Believes
in Large Family
PEftftV, Mr, Sept. 23.—A
black cat, Dinah by nam*, in th*
family of John Clark, of Perry,
adopt* everything on the prem
i*ee small enough for her to cud
die Of her i*t**t brood of kit
tana aha was allowod to k**p
on*, and a neighbor, coming In
to tha house suddenly, surprised
the maternal on* In a clothe*
ba*k*t with h«r own jetty off
spring, a gray kltt*n of another
puaay'* family, and a whit* rab
bit. Th* assortment mads quits
a madlay. Later on ah* add*d
a puppy to h«r trib*. and *h*
aiao cuddle* an orphan chlckan.
10 PLANES FALL
IN 56 BATTLES
PARIS. Sept. 23—French avis
tors took part In 56 air battles yes
terday, bringing down 10 enemy
flyer*. It was officially announced
today.
On perhaps no other day of the
war has there been *urh great
aerial activity.
Hergt Haron dropped three xhell.
on the military work at l,udwlg*
hafen and three other* on the muni
tlon works at Mannh'ltn, causing a
bad fire
On the Homme front French pa
trol*. which reached the southern
edge of the town of f'omble* In yes
terday'* flrhMng. found numerous
German corpse* and took 15 prison
era.
SEUG WILL FILM
BASEBALL SERIES
CHICAGO, Hept. 23—Exclualve
movlrix picture rlKhts for the
world i nrrl-s have been granted
to the Hell* Polyscope company,
according to a statement made to
day by W. N. Sell*, president of
the company, upon receipt of a
telerram from Carry lierrinann,
rhalrman of the llasehall
Commission, arinoilklnK that H
lis:'A was the successful hid.
A conelderaMon approximating
$25,000 ,was Included In Hie sik
cessful bid.
Picture* will be taken of every
Important play In each of the
juaiiif i that will decide the world'*
championship.
TheSeattleStar
l THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 19
"Don't flash on the line. It is almost fatal for an oper
ator if she does not answer a flash immediately. Yet it may
he almost impossible.
Shall Ten Commandments«
Be Boiled Down Like This?
How the Ten Commandments Look Boiled Down
Thou shalt have no other God before me.
Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven image.
Thou shalt not idly utter the name of Jahveh thy God.
Thou shalt remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Thou shalt honor thy father and thy mother.
Thou shalt not murder.
Thou shalt not commit adultery.
Thou shalt not steal.
Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house.
Now get out your Bible and -ec how t'unl handed flown the ten commandments to
Moses. * •
BY KENNETH W. PAYNE
NEW YORK, Sept. 23.—SHALL THE TEN COMMANDMHNTS BE
BOILED DOWN?
Shall the words of God, which were written on tables of stone when the
great prophet Moses was living thousands of years ago—and which have guided
man thru all the ages—NOW be made to conform with "modern" ideas?
For THIS is exactly what t religious people of America today!
In St. Louis, next month, t! ntlon of the Protestant Episcopal
church is going to consider a p .1 to REVISE the ten commandments!
And, from present reports, ji is >ery likely that the proposal will carry,
despite the opposition already encountered in many quarters to what is being
termed by many as "a sacrilegious proceeding."
But the Episcopalian clergy view this matter of boiling down God's ten
commandments in a very different, in fact in a very matter-of-fact, light!
Rev. Herbert M. Denslow, rector of note and professor of pastoral theol
ogy at the General Theological seminary, presents these as the generally ac
cepted arguments FOR the "revision."
"The plan is." he says, "to shorten the form of the ten commandments
as useJ in the Episcopal church service. It should be remembered that the
commandments themselves appear in different forms in the scriptures.
"Those who advocate this change believe that the ten command
menu will gain in EMPHASIS, if shortened. They My that BREVITY
constitutes the chief strength of most precepts. And so many have de
clared that God's ten commandments would be more powerful if recited
in the form of simple commands with the REASONS eliminated.
"A vote at the coming convention to adopt this change will be only a
vote of recommendation, however. The project then must hold over three
vears, and not be acted upon permanently until the following convention
three years hence. So there will be a great deal of discussion before any real
change in the form of the ten commandments is actually possible."
(In this paper Monday a noted minister will tell why he b?lieves the ten
commandments ought not to be touched by hand of man.—EDITOR.)
Ten Commandment#' Revision No Affair of Public'*, Pastor Says
* "The revision of the Ten Commsndmsnts *hlci ha* been talked of I* no affair of the public'*!"
That I* the atartllng ataertlon of the Rev. Hen y Anatlce. secretary of the general convention of
the Eplecopal church, This convention probably wII have the queatlon of revising the Ten Com
mandment* preaented to It by a comml**lon of the church.
Dr. Anstice. asked to comment on the propottl, *aid.
"The matter I* not before the public at all! I understand a religloua paper ha* mentioned It,
but I have not personally «een any report on the p jject. It I* not a *übj*ct for public dl«cu**lon at
the prtsent time!"
SEATTLE. WASH., SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 23. 1916. ONE CENT
Mrs. Gt«n Ola*
"Don't wait eight or ten seconds when you hear the
operator say 'Number, please?' (live your number at once
A second lost puts the operator behind that much on every
call in the day.
"Don't scold the girl if "he df>e*n't hear you the first
time. Her he*d-*et may he out of order or the dhief operator
may be giving her instruction* at that moment.
"Don't hold on to your receiver when you are cut off
If you do, your line tests busy. Hang up. Never go in
and say, '< »h. Central, YOU cut me off.' Remember there
are from 30 to 300 operator* in an office. Don't lay the
blame on any one k* r '
"Don't allow children to play with the phone.
DONT JOLLY THE PHONE GIRL
"Don't attempt to start a conversation with a telephone
girl. She is not allowed to converse.
"She i< permitted to say a few *et phra«es, as, for in
stance :
"'I am ringing them.' 'I will give >' ou the supervisor.'
'I cannot hear you; will you please *|»eak louder." etc.
"One day a man called in and said. 'Central, give me
heaven.' All I could say was. 'What is the number, please?"
He said he didn't know So I said, I will give y<»u infor
mation.'
"In the training school the girls are taught to memorize
rates, names of towns and how to inflect their voices. I guess
you have noticed how an operator rolls her 'three's.' She
HAS to do it. If she forget*, she is 'called.' If she doesn't
raise her voire at the end of a number she is 'called.'
"It sno snap to be a telephone girl. Try it!"
WILLIE ZIMMER
TO GET CHMCE
TO MEND LIFE
Boy Who Killed Mother
Won't Be Hanged. Says
Proaecutor
WOMEN TO KEEP HIM
NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 23 —
Llttl* Willi* Zlmmar, 12, who
•hot hi* mothar to death her*
July 14, will not t>* triad for
murder. Altho he mad* no poa-
Itlve *tat*m*nt. Chandler C.
Lui*nb*rg, dlatrlet attorney.
Intimated today that th* boy
neither would b* tent to th*
gallow* nor lmpri*on*d for I If*.
Th* pita of thousand* of
young*t*r* and club women In
• very atate In th* Union haa
had Ita effect, and Willi* will
ba given a chanc* to begin life
all ov*r again.
Willi* killed hla mother because
ahe tried to beat htm with a broom
atlck. Wlllle'a parent* were aejv
arated. The day of the killing he
had been with hla father. The fath
er thraahed him for aome trivial of
fenae, ao WUU« w*nt to hla moth
*r'* home fo™omfort.
But Mra Summer wa« In no com
forting mood He offended her, and
when ahe ralaed a atlck to him he
fired a bullet Into her breaat She
tried to run, but a aerond bullet
lodged In her abdomen. She con
tinued to run, and when ahe reach
ed an alleyway ahe fell, crying
"Willie haa killed me "
Slnco hla arreat Willi* han been
Indifferent. t'ntll today he had
never expreaaed Borrow for hla deed
"I'm sorry I killed my mother,"
he said, today, "but she tried to
beat me. and that's why I killed
her."
l<ocal club women contend the
boy ha* not had the proper care In
hi* early day*, which deprived him
of an even break In hi* battle of
life. With proper environment*
they hope to make a man of the
little fellow Present plan* call for
a five or aix-year course In aome In
stitution other than penal.
The dint riot Attorney today a* id
such action would be acceptable to
him. and prosecution plana prob
ably will be dropped
WILSON TO VISIT
OMAHA IN OCTOBER
AHIU'KY PARK, N. J.. Sept 211
-President Wilton has accepted
Invitations to speak at Omahii.
Neb., Oct. 5, and at lndluna|>olls
Oct 12.
FALL BEGINS TODAY
Old you think Septtmber 21
wat the first dty of autumn?
It waan't. Not until 1:10 a. m.
today could tny on* ttlk tbout
the critp ftll weather and be
officially correct. Th* weather
burtau gives Itt word autumn
did not begin until today.
LAST EDITION
GEORGE ISN'T TAKING ANY CHANCEH WITH HIS
WEATHER FORECAST TODAY HE HAYH IT I'ROII-
A RI.Y Wll.l, HE FAIR TONIOHT AND HL'NUAY.
WHY THE ' I'ROBABEV." GEORGE?
TRIES TO DESTROY
BODY BY FIRING
OIL-SOAKED DRESS
One of the strangest suicides in local
annals was revealed Saturday, when Cor
oner Mason and detectives unraveled the
circumstances surrounding the death of
Miss Jennie E. Pendlington, 3822 Interlake
ave., whose charred and decomposed skele
ton was found in a lonely field one mile
fiorth of the Seattle Country club late Fri
day.
What was at first thought to be a murder
mystery was cleared up by evidence showing
that she planned taking her life and
cremating her own body, on July 4, the day
she left home.
That she took a sleeping potion, after
reading favorite passages in her Bible and
pouring oil on her body and clothes, and in
the vague moments before the sleep, lighted
a match and started the fire that almost
burned her beyond recognition, was the con
clusion reached by the investigators early
Saturday.
The .young woman, 35, had been suffer*-
Eng from nervousness for 6 years, following
an accident which made it impossible for
her to work longer as a stenographer.
She lived with her widowed mother, and
sister, Eveleen, a stenographer, and was
able to enjoy their family automobile, but
her poor health made her despondent. .
On the morning ef July 4 she re
fused to go auto riding, telling
them she would slay home and do
the work
Leave* Note for Mother
They never saw her after thai.
They found a brief note, atatlng
that It would be uaeless to hunt for
her and that they would never aee
her again.
She left her ring* on the bureau,
and also left *50 In gold that be
longed to her.
She took her Bible
The mother and sister searched
valnlv for her
They asked the police and park
authorities to assist.
Mother Grief Stricken
The mother and sister, grief
stricken, refused to see any on«
Saturday.
The daughters Injun", sustained
several years ago In a street car
accident, affected her spine, neigh
bors said, and made her a nervous
wreck.
Mrs 8 Jacobs. 1502 3Rth ave
N„ was the last neighbor who re
members seeing Miss Pendllngtoti
on the day she dlssppeared
"It was about 11 a m she said,
"and I saw her walk away, carry
ing a ault case, after her mother
and sister had gone automobile
riding."
Mother Searched Near Scana
No one knows yet what became
of the ault case.
The mother suspected that her
daughter might have gone to the
Country club district to end her
life The Pendllngtons own prop
ertj there, and the girl was fa
miliar with the lay of the land and
its loneliness.
The mother even went there, ti
was learned, and searched for the
body.
Hut she nevet found It.
Jt wag ao completely burned.
Coroner Maaon said, that other sur
veyors had worked near it. and not
noticed that It was the remains of
a human form, lying black against
the log
Find Remains In Lonaly Spot
Woodland park wag searched,
and the mother told neighbors she
believed her daughter had drown
ed herself.
• A civil engineer. K. A. Duffy,
stumbled scrota the burned skele
ton lying next to a log," explained
Coroner Mason, "In i>ne of the
loneliest spoth I have ever seen.
"A fruit Jar, which we believed
contained the oil, wan found near
the skeleton, and matches and
empty drug bottles, such as doctors
(Continued on page 8)
Meliss Weeks, of Chaattr, Matt.,
age "0, only recently became the
owner of the first "store hat" she
ever wore. The "creation' was
given her by the srlrrttnen of the
town.
CONVICT SHOT
AS HE TRIES
TO GET AWAY
Oregon Prisoner Leaps Out
of Auto and Makes
Dash
SHOT CLIMBING FENCE
BALKM. Ore., Sept. 23. —Guards
today shot and klllfd Earl G. l<ovc.
convict, as he attempted to escipe.
Love was being taken with other
prisoners In an automobile trucl:
from the Oregon penitentiary ».»
work in the flax fields.
.Near a brldg? over Puddinr
river, he Jumped from the ma
chine and ran. The guards were
close behind In another car. They
opened (Ire Two builtts crashed
thru the fugitive's body. Me dieJ
a few minutes later. ,
Iceland T Murphy and P. Q.
Heath were said to be the marks
men who fatally wounded Love. He
was hit while scrambling over a
fence.
Ix»ve was serving from three to
20 years for wronging u girl.
Authorities declared l«ove tried
to escape whilo in the county jail
at Vale, Ore., by throwing red | ep
per into Ills keeper's eyes.
Me also *•*» accused of being a
ringleader in a recent plot whereby
the whole flax Ran* of the state
prison was to get away. When
that conspiracy was discovered.
Ixjve was searched and a dagger
found In his possession. It was
alleged he Intended to stab the
chauffeur of the prison motor truck
Just as It reached the crest of a
hill and make n break for liberty
while the machine ran away down
grade.
BILLINGSLEY GETS
UMIT SENTENCE
Logan nillingsley was given the
maximum penalty allowed by law
for bootlegging Saturday by Super
ior Judge Jurey—s2so fine and
three months in Jail.
"It has been clearly shown." said
the Judge, "that Rllllngslny not
only had liquor In his possession,
but that he was engage! In :i busi
ness that ha* become a menac? to
the life and health of the commuu-
Ity."
| llilllnuslpy save notice of appeal
