ym wwh2v mmKi,r z&wf -mtm daily va vvjvzyx i--:
ROUND-UP SOUVENIR EDITION
PENDLETON, OREGON, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916 "
THESE CAYUSE TWINS HAVE BEEN "GOOD MEDICINE"
. ; ; ' : I
y '' - , w-
1
I MX
" 1 trrffX,
i
J-r ite
j .
4 j:-mmv v
.7 i,
t ' 7. .;
".
n
' 1 it 11 v
Tox-e-lox and A-lom-pum, the Cayuse Twins, ana, they would have been sacrificed to the old tra- hi (White Fawn), wife of Ha-hots-nox-i.iox, pre-l '"""htc' lives. So he .inroad the report amonK the
made famous by the photography of Ma.ior Lee dition had it not been for the resourcefulness of tieir sented him with a pair of twin baby gir.s. V. lion tribesmen that his twins came as a good omen for the
Moorhouse. hive !ivcd ta disorove the old tradition 1 father, Ha-hots-mox-mox (Yellow Grizzly Hear) . thu caine to the ears of the chiet of the tribe, he t nation, m- L ...1 v! . ' 1 " .- of rovat
now known by the American name of Philip Jones., tued an edict tnat tae ancient law 01 tne tribe blood, being grand nieces of Chiet Joseph, famous
A Cayuse Superstition. ' must be enforced and that the twins must die. j Nez i'erec warrior. .
Twin girls once brought great misfortune upir Tho;r father, however, was not ready to sacrifice: He was an orator of no nu.'.n ability and he asked
the Cayuso tribe, according to the campfirc r-tories. his flesh and blood just because of a superstition of j the chief to assemble the people iti council that !)
and for more than a century thereafter every p:iir of his people. He was an enlightened Indian and might justify to them the birth of his twins. In the
twins horn in the tribe were immediately killed. knew something of the white man's God. He was' tribal lodge they gathered, prepared to pass judg-
ln the last year of the last century, llnn-ye-an-hi-i cunning and subtle too, and he planned to save nisi
of their tribe that twins are "bad medicine." They
have been '"good medicine" for their people for,
through their baby pictures, they have perhaps at
traded more attention to the Cayuse tribe than was
ever given this tribe before or since by white peo
ple. And yet, according to the story told by the Indi-
'ulltlhu-d oil tl.
