DID YOU DO T? DO WHAT? Did you make use of the detached sub blank
that was inserted in -your last week's Menace?' If not,
wnyf c arc making a herculean effort to brine the circulation up to the point where it will
be possible to defeat every papal candidate for office. Wc want to start the cood work at the
general election i in November. Will you nohclp by divine up that sub blank and sendinc
us at least a club of four new subscribers at the very earliest possible date?
This It Number 233
f v Aa it,
The.
INACE
Mfi
"W lli aw Ai LA
MOCENT CHILD COMK
TIED' TO
ROMAN
PRISON
Marguerite Beas.ey Place, I Ir . House of Good Shepherd at New Orleans Though Excellent
- wwMt3..b w iiuiiic rroceeamgs for Release to Follow
THREE ORGANIZATIONS TO THE RESCUE
Organizer for Knights of Luther First to Defense of Misused Child
Appeals to tha Free Press Defense League for Aid Immediately
Granted Guardians of Liberty Also Working on Case
Patriots Are Thoroughly Aroused
Manaara Mlir. rmnuM aaM InH rmn af
f pt aa tka kn IMnm Mm af M
ftWaaar aa i taaaM af laa ii MUrttr af Um
arakauaa aaVrar af Caaaa aartoa. aaa a mbimmm
aaiaartaaf la. !!) .Laaa M a af tka Jaaaila
aaart ia Samaa.il. laallaaa.
tmaraa af aalraaaaa ar tataitaOHa vaa UH
aaakut ta ratta. It aaa aifeaaf aawar aa U failar
aa ImMmmI a raar aa aab taw aaiM aal t-a aallaraa
af am aaaaar r-ara. aat laa) la ax a taaiifraltoa af la.
"! IT " naaaaakaia la-Utaa am4 a
lit Um rVl aaa.
railta aa afcuka M antrat af lawvar la laa aaart
ttaa Immaai katwaaa Um araaatlaa aaWa rafaaal M
alto Marrwrtta ta a. hM a k la Mimiai. aa4
aarar af Um vraalaf iraia aa wkWa aa aaa k.rrtW
fM Um ttr. Um aiatia Ititw a4 W. A. Caaiaa.ll.
arnato.r f Mm Kalaau) af lalbf, vara laft ta law
.rtoaa HMnHj taal af aatalalaa Iraaaaai far Ik ittaul
akiM.
T. aatrtotte lira af Sra.a.rt aat tataa aaaVdaa.
I araaalaaS ta faaa a rtrtflM la Ik, mm, akkca Bleat
J Uaa-arawa aat. Ik. facia vara laM aatar Ik. titm
af Tka raa trmm Dafaaaa laaraa aa aa aaaaal awaa far
' Tka Laaaaa laiaMa'taialr M ta Um faaraa aa
all fanaa ara aa- waralaf ta lata far MarawHta BaaaUr,
fraaatai aaa aaaartaahkM aara. aa rrarf laa.nat rklki
la a fraa raaaaUa aaaahl aar.
Bam kaa arar rlauaa IM bar arrhataatwal U
raa ara fcaaaaa af taarttr, aa tk.l aklMraa Ual aarfe
Rlaraa aaalaa ta aaaa villi tka aaitlaa af Um varUl. aat
raMT taaMlaa baa rbtaMa Ikal aaaaUaaal farllllUa aa
aat raarfc k.f.a Um faank iraaa aa4 taat aaa4IUaaa
a4rr vktr flH. vark. aallr ta Um laaaary aaaart.
aiaat hMa4 af kataa rkartiakM ara aaa4arUT ta tka
rrmtaathta aa4 aaraai af takarralaal.
pi IIE Juvenile Court of Ctddo rrih, Lt..
through the co-operation of Judpe Lend
with Mrs. Ad Vinson DeLar, probation
officer, haa within tha rtant few r1v r.
rordrd one of the mt shameful abusce of au
thority and utter disregard for humane adminia
tration that haa recent come to our attention;
but, with the Free Tresa Defense Leajrue, the
Knight of Luther and individual from thr
ranki of the Guardiana of Liberty working hand
in hand, a movement demanding the release of
ilarperite Beasley, a twelve year old Trotestant
rhil.J, committed to the House of Good Shep
herd by the above named judge ia assuming gi
gantic proportion and an able lawyer has been
employed to take auch action as mar be advisable.
i ainoi oi Louisiana wno nave conducted a vigor
ous warfare upon every court procedure that even
tended to enhance the coffers of the Roman hier
archy will not cease their efforts in behalf of in
nocent childhood until the remedy has been found
and applied.
Child Innocent of Crime
Against Marguerite Beaaley ao recently com
mitted to the New Orleans slav nan. nr. rV,. i-.ro
was, or could be mad. The tranquility of the
iaoin iiumi w aa ucnirujcu soma moDiM since,
when Mr. Beasley and the mother of the children
iterated. For a considerable time since the ep
aration, Mr. Beasley had been ill. Jibing a poor
man it is probable that while ilHiia children did
not receive every attention which he, under nor
mal condition would bestow upon them, but he
rightly felt it hi duty to keep the remainder of
the faniily together and labored righteously to
that end. '
There are three of the Benslev children; a
baby girl six years old, a boy a trifle older, and
Marguerite, twelve year old. Mrs. DcLay the
iver-zealou probation officer knowing about the
family hailed the three children into 'court and
swore before Judge Lsnd together with some
witness of her same mind that Mr. Bcai-ley was
incapable of rearing the children. The vounger
rirl and the boy were given to families living in
Shreveport, by order of the court, but Marguerite
being large enough to work waa remanded to the
House of Good Shepherd in New Orleans.
At the time of the court proceedings W. A.
Campbell, organizer for the Jvnighta of Luther
waa out of the city. However the next day he
Teturned to Shreveport and waa appraised of the
facta and the shameful commitment of an innocent
child to Archbishop Blenk's house of toil. He
immediately consulted Mr. Beasley, father of the
children and they decided to try "to find a home
for Marguerite. Mr. Campbo'lPe organization
work haa brought him in touch with many of
the best familie in Shreveport and he haJ no
trouble in finding an excellent family who were
anxious to give the child a home.
This accomplished the father felt much re
lieved and they immediately proceeded to talk
with Judre Land, informing him that a hnma l.a4
been found for the daughter, and, aerking hi
consent to place her in the home. Judce Land
airreed that should Mrs. DeLar t villi
Marguerite to be placed in the Shreveport home, i recurrence
ma. me ii. j. . o. cnirnce wouia oe rescinded, i events.
Hcwever Mrs. DeLav received the suggestion with
all the vehemence of a aub-servient Roman Cath
olic, (though ahe is a Trotestant by affiliation)
and declared that Marguerite had been sentenced
to the H. O. G. S. and she didn't propose that
any change ahould be made. 8he then informed
Mr. Beaaley in no uncertain manner that hi
daughter would be sent to New Orleans on the
nve ociocn train Uiat afternoon.
Seek Berrlc of Lawyer
Mr. Beaaley and Mr. Campbell immediately
aought the service of a lawyer thinking to .make
last effort to prevent the child being sent so far
irom tier rather, and the other children. J. D
Muainson was recommended and having ap
praised him of the fact he was about to begin
preliminary iters In rrvnr tm -k;m kar,
from the city when Mr. Campbell ahowed him
inwr, wnicn naa Deen written irom Aurora on
Mexaci : stationery behold the change Mr. Wil
kinnon imml iatalv mmnliul V
ia a Roman Catholic, and declined to handle the
case out or respect to his partners religion. Mr.
Wilkinson having first ssid be wr.uU tLa tf
case, considerable time had been wasted, and his
reiusai came at a most monnnrtun timi fnr in.
stead of having time to seek and consult another
lawyer the father was forced to hurry to the train
itit i i.
nu ma ins aaugnter good-bye.
With the daughter incarcerated in this ecclsi
astical slave pen conditions assumed a more for
biddinir asnect and nr r.Imu vahI.1 I a tlatli
ally entail a course of procedure, broader in scope
i naa sucn preveniaiive measure as the latner and
4 1 I , 1 . . . .
uic organizer naa sougnt to invoke.
The patriotic forces of Louisiana have up to
the prrsent time been almost ent irrlv nnnrpin.
ized. though Mr. Campbell, during his short stay
in nrcvcpori na iieen anie to accomplish much
along this line. However to perfivt an organi
zation of miflii-ient strength financially, to meet
in court, the rich, perfectly organized and pow
erful Roman hierarchy, which in addition to other
sources of revenue is sunnnrtad indiiHnollv an.!
collectively by the Ancient Order of Hibernians.
me Aiugius ot coiumous, the Jesuits and numer
ous other organizations, require months of labor.
Appeal to Letfue for Aid
Realizing that the interest of the Free Press
Defense League are not only to preserve th price
less heritage of free press, speech and esasmbly,
and purge politics of political Romanism, and
thus remove the greatest menace to our free in
stitutions; but to also protect the liberty of in
dividual citizens placed in jeopardy by Rome,
Mr. Campbell as the representative of Louisiana
patriots, sought the aid and moral support of
the League for the purpose of assisting in ob
taining, if possible, the liberty of this child.
Though not always able to meet the many
demands made upon the treasury, especially since
the League haa been so persistently marshalling
ita forces in the interest of House Joint Resolu
tion No. 264 for the investigation of political
Romanism, officers of the league deemed the
isue so clearcut and the encroachment upon the
liberty of this innocent child ao flApmnt that th.
call for aid was promptly met. And it might be
Said that the history mnnr.nnnmuuuuuuu.
this case has only begun.
The combined effort of
Mr. Campbell and his
following in the Knights
of Luther together with
other patriotic forces
plus the aid and co
operation of the Free
Tress Defense Leasrue
and the assistance of a
freedom-lovine people.
inspired by the ideals of
democratic government
and filled with a sacred
love for parental ties
can do much to abolish
such un-American and
despotic abuses. We are
bv no means certain
what the future holds
for Marguerite Beasley.
Her liberty may be "a
thing impossible to ob
tain but all lovers of
fundamental democracy
must labor for her re
lease and to prevent the
of similar
stations equipped to fght the battles of thr
world we mu.t take iwue with tbera on many
?lu F'ir,t J'. not Mir rTmcd once a
child has been iadoajutrly sentenced to one of
the pspal slave pens, and again there are scv
eral casrs on record showing that when liberty
waa attained the child was either maimed or brok
en in health.
Readers of Th Miiricr remember the case
or llorence Cleland who while attempting to es
cape from the House of Good Shepherd in Wash
ington, D. C. on the morning of August Sth, was
so badly injured that ahe died on the evening of
the same day in the hospital of Georgetown Uni
feraity, that city. It has never become definite
ly known whether or not Judge William I
Le.ey, the Romish child snatcher who occupM
the chair of juvenile judge of the District of
Columbia for several years, sentenced Florence
Cleland to the H. O. 0. S. or whether she was
railroaded into the institution through kidnap-u,r.t,c-
Thi n"b i certain; Florence
leianoa ease is similar in many instances to i
that of Margnerite Beasley, or Uie parents of:
Florence Cleland were also separated, she hsd I
attended the district achool, and, she hsd been 1
a good child, not incorrigible in anv wav. Sin;
too, had belonged to a Trotcitant family.' i
Attempted Escape Bring Death I
The detaila that brought about the death of
Florence Cleland have never come to light A I
hole in the side of her head which might have!
been made with a nointed intmmr,i i,.. k..
I .... ... iiu-i v y 11
accounted for by those in authority, and it marl
.... .....j .i.iv.., xi rajiug uiai Mie icn wniie,
attempting to slide down a rope she herself had j
probably nude sure was secure, twfor fnmntinrr
. 1 ii 5 ... r
iu iraro ma avvuna Biory oi me building.
And while this case in point occured on the
shores of the Atlantic in the fr
region we find a girl maimed and degraded as a
result of her House of Good Shepherd sentence,
ncqnrss ociore xne court in t'ortland, Oregon.
When Questioned by the lud 171 WHY ftnt n il nnt
labor for her support as do other girls, she bared
her left arm showing that the hand had Wen
removed at the wrist, ami rthluinr.1 tl.nt .hi. ),.!
lo her hand while operating a mangle in the
launury operated in the so-called Jlouse of the
Good Shepherd.
Liberty so'dearlv rnnlinsr.l aa in mt a i;r
or an arm is worth tho price however, if we arc
to give any credence to the great amount of direct
testimony that has been piven hv former inmatna
of papal slave pens, but is it a charitable act to
so cripple individuals and leave them to their
fate, that a degradation of character and a sac
rifice of virtue follow in the wake of their struggle
ior existence r
As to the New Orleans Hons of CnnA RJi.-
herd much can be said that is in no wav mm.
plimentary to the institution. One lady livine
in cnrecri, who is tooay ine wue ot a 1'rot
estant gentleman, wa for more thn eight years
an inmate of the New Orleans laundrv. an."!
cording to her testimony-conditions in that work-
snop are norrihie. And, we have been informed
that she is willing to take the witness stand and
swear to the truth of her charges.
Denied Freedom In Defiance of Law
According to Louisiann law this r-stimnMr.
lady who entered the institution at the age of
fifteen years and ten months, of her own free
CRIME AND RO WCATKOLICTRAINING
Startling Facts-Results of Rome's Religious Training-Records of
New York Prisons Show Rome Represented by Ovenvhelming
Majority in Penal Institutions While Less Than One-Third
ot Mate s Population is Catholic
rt.t-IlT?, . anWara krW. UWral. toWraal
U- JLr -"'. kM4 lauraara mm4
4i-7 k," J!'' .rr'.1! Irra ar
aaamiaaa aa4 arataMaUaaa.
aa kaa kr mm UpmI U Um araHraaaal af lartaT
UUuZ.'.t' " l"iMaala liana, kal Ik.
Ifk Tw i: rr"'" -
"" " taaalaar laa traaaaa af ful (aaaraaa
I'' allallcal fraai Ik. U.I aakltoka
1S,. ' J"raw a awaa-likt htkl aa Ik. anilaa
I!! fj . . tmt ' '" rraiaaiaal a..arrarF. II
' ',."' 'rarrk. aa a.r rralnlam U.l.mi aa4
1?JZJ2 r.l.aia, .. .r. ik.ir rial..
71. rT.l!! . L. f. ' iraialaf aa ra.-
Uaa allk.at faaadailaa la Ian.
. I '- af K.a- y.rk
. ." .'" 'li' rlal Ik. Jnalllral
r.U.1.,. af Haa. ak. k... a.kl k, ,k. ..k.7"a,,
af aar likeral ln.ili.itaa .ka al.k la A.tr. k.-.
Ika aMral U4.r a Ik .rM kr rliit.n. akk. mnu
Um4n Ira anri.r Ik krlirrln( laC. .( ImAmm.
m
(Cnnt'imxmA ah " rr rAlnmai
V a ! VViuuiM a. J
H1 m m a.aiaa.laaaa.Aaiaalaia.al.aaa..akaiaa
THE MODERN INQUISITION
Though Romanist tell
us that these House of
the Good Shepherd are
charitable institutions,
that they are veritable
schools for children and
that they leave these in-
i Fr$?'$ru VinstB DtLay, of Shreveport, takes two girls t the House of the Coo4
Shepherd ia New Orleaaa.
Secead1 She visits priest to ascertain iow to get charges "legally Committed."
July 14 Judge Land of Caddo ParUa Javeoile Court sentences Mary Greer to indefinite
imprisonment ansl (ervitode ia the New Orleai papal slave pea.
Jaly 14 Mrs. Ada Yiasoo DtLay appoiatcd prtbatioa officer for Caddo parisn by Judge
Land.
Jaly IS W. A. Campbell, orraDixer for fcaif bts of Lather, qnestiens constitutionau'ty of
sentencing cUdrta to a sectariaa prisoa tkroagb celumn of Shreveport Times.
Jaly IS Times receive a letter frees VJ K. Rick of Keatchie, Louisiana, also protesting
against acading children to so-called church rfmatories operated for profit
Aag. 8 News letter b Time says Mr. Ada Vinson DeLay has rttnrned from delivering
two more girla to ArcbUsbop Bleak's diseaae-iatested laoadry.
Aag. 9 Campbell agaia attack tb eonstrotioaality of socb commitments.
Aag. 10--Tkre Rhus Catholics bar letters printed ia the Shreveport Times advertising
7 Kmu cbBrck, bat making feeble answer to the real isne aa raised by Camp,
bell and Rick. , .
Aag. 14 Tim prints letter from PreatJco Smitb declaring that the constitution does aot
prohibit retigiou legtslarioa by the various state), so Loaisiana could without viola ting the fed
eral ceastiratiea est blub a state rtugioa.
Next W. A. Campbell and C L Medear j are denied further space ia the Times.
Aad Now TV ckildrea have beea ba3- J into court by the overzealous Mrs. Delay, and
ta midrr rirl rtnaaaiftaJ fWa II ft C. L.L .-t J.I: ..J : .i . f . .i .
. mi .w ot mm w. .aarvga m luiniui la apilV W IQC laCI Ul!
one of Sbrrvvpert's best familie wished to five ber a borne. To rescue Marguerite Beasley from
uua
fease
HE annual ofTicial report of the superin
tendent of prisons of New York, which
was released for publication on February
8. 1915. contains the fnllim
. . ' ' f i"iv nu1 . n -
mg the religious beliefs of the criminals in the
state prisons of Auburn, Sing Sing, Clinton, and
Ureal Meadows.
Roman Catholics 2707
Protestants jjfjo
Hchrew
Miscellaneous .
One Place Where Catholics Are In Majority
There is one place in New York where the
Catholics are largely in the majority. There is
no iin.iutin that fact. It i. in the Mate prison.
From the alH.ve oflicinl data we find the total in.ii-
Catholic ponulat ion illcltldiflir Pruti'Htnntfl nnil nil
others who are without the inl. of ili f ',itl...li,.
church, numbers 2H5. as aL-aiit ?0?. thai u
say there are more Catholic convicts than
a I tl . a. ...
wioe irom an me I'rotestont fellowships, the
Hebrews, the agnostics, the free .hint era nti1 .11
the other non-Catholics.
Less Than One-Third Population of New York
The Catholic ronulation of r Yri- r.i
far below one-third of the whnl tvnnntotir.n ti.
oflicial Roman Catholic directory for 1916 gives
tne estimatea tatholic opiilation nl New York
aa two million, eight hundred and ninctv-nine
thousand two hundred and forty-two. The World
Almanac estimates the population of the state at
ten million, thus it will he fUN'll flint nrWMvl i n t vr
the very generous estimate of the official Roman
camonc uireiiory, tne Catholic population lacks
more than a million of bem? one-tliir.l r,f n. in
habitants of the entire state. If. however we
should allow them the benefit of this more than a
million population which thev 1. lint At-nn ttr
and put their nonnlation. at uiv nno.n.ir.i
that their ratio of criminals if it were no higher
than the general ratio
would be sixteen hun
dred and seventeen
which is OXF. THOU
SAND AND NINETY
less than the statistics
show; that is to say that
the members of" that
church which has been
rl
renouncing the moral
influence of our Protes
tant democratic churches
and our free schools as
prejudicial to law, order
and morality, have one
thousand and ninety
more prisoners than the
ceneral ratio, and over
five hundred and fiftv
convicts more than eomt
from the oer (rn.lir.js
of the en tin po filiation
of the ftate uhick ii nan-
i Catholic.
I Could figure tell a
tglmore startling story, or
j show more clearly the
j superiority of our liberal
j Protestant .democracy's
nirainin? and the influ
ent of our popular non-
, ;r . .v . "x; . !w,c"e "Tna" oeawej irom Co sectarian fni a h.. . appriviate tne wortnie:
papal pna. . the next rtep. and i. tki. find the Knight, of Luther, the Free Pres. Do- 1 ,r,an- J ''J fim, lhat Ilome wil
.L-ga.,.mWtUG-ardiaol S'Xc.t one-third of the
the tongue of man frame an indictment which
would more convincingly indirate the appalling
influence of the religious training and education
that flow from the papal system, than this sta
tistical data which ahows that with a million leu
than one-third of the population of the slate,
Rome furnishes twenty-seven hundred and seven
convicts to where the non-Catholic population
numbering far more than two-thirds of the whole
population is represented by two thousand one
hundred and forty-five.
Catholic Influence In Old and New World
The population of New York state ha, for
generations, been perceptibly swelled bv immi
gration from various European lands. ' During
reiint years great numbers of Russian, Polish
and HiMirjnrian .lews have fled to our shores as a
refuee from Old World religious persecution and
discrimination; while in conformity with the
Jesuitical world plan of making "America domi
nant Iv Roman Catholic," large influx of immi
grants have come from countries where for hun
dreds of year the Roman Catholic religion has
dominated state and people, and where education
has for the mot part been entirely under control
of the Roman church. These immigrants there
fore, reflect or represent the influence of the Ro
man church, for generations. They have come
to our land bearing the heritage of centuries of
Reman Catholic religious ad una t inn mnA r..'..
he legitimate fruitage of Roman Catholic in-
I it...... 1 ' .
mu.-m.-i-. bum in mis respect differing from the
Hebrews, Scandinavians, Protestant German
and other non-Roman Catholic immigrant who
for the most part quickly enter the melting pot
of democracy and become loyal and enthusiastic
friends of the fundamental principles of our lib
eral government. -
True, a large proportion of the Catholic of
the Empire State are Americans or have come
irom nocrai frotestant lands, but ' here again
they have had Roman Catholic training, and for
the most part, parochial schooling.
That tho amazing preponderance of Roman
Catholics in the state penitentiaries of New York
is not in any degree due to the effect of the pub
lic schools on the Catholic children who have at
tended them, as the hierarchy would have the
public believe, is clearly proven from the fact
that if such were the case, the state prisons would
swarm with Protestants, Hebrews and other non
Cat holies whose early years are practicallv all
spent at the public school and who come "from
those who constitute considerably more than two
thirds of the population of the s'tate. The prison
showing so far as education is concerned clearly
indicates that the public tchool, besides being the
milting pot of democracy is on of the most
potent influences for the development of cnar
arfer and civic responsibility in the common
wealth. These statistical facts furthermore clearly and
sharply indicate that there must be a very close
relationship between Roman Catholic re'ligious
and educational training, and the overwhelming
proportion of Romia Catholica in tho state
prisons.
Let your mind digest these facta and then cJl .
your neighbor attention to them. There is more
than a million laca than nna.tViirJ f IW.
--- .illiu V. VLFUia
tion out of jail in New York that is Roman Cath
olic, while the prison population ia more than
one-fourth greater than that furnished by th
At a A . a a a
more man iwo-miras non-cat none population.
Meet Roman Pre tome With Logio of Tacts
From now on an important work md an'tK atl
upholder of our liberal democracy. Th sys
tematic campaign of false pretenses which po
litical Romanism has been ao long and so vigor
onslv rfl r rv i n tr tnrmmrA imnaf k .
sistent array of facts which will prove the utter
a
laisny oi every claim oemg advanced by th Ro
man Catholic hierarchy and ita representative
with the object of discrediting nd undermining
our gTeat liberal democracy and our eplendil
non-sectarian school system.
When cardinal, bishop, priest, knight or
ancient prates of the protection offered society by
the Roman church from the criminal cl aides, call
the attention of the public to r.ich facts as are
shown in the prison statistic of the Empire
State. Even the most slow thinlincr i-iti-n a-i'tt
appriviate the worthlessnes of such claims when
i n i .1 . . ....
nu more man a muiion less
population of New York
rfywyyvywywyxvKvwvvJvv I JlOlllsn ' ttth"llC ' .i-i-ir---M--M--M-rrn.rrcru-ai.
SBoBaBaBaBaBaBcBcBOT i cLurch ? Could, indeed, j (Continued 0 Pag , Columa 8)
