The Sun Goes to 36 States
and Canada. Are
Your Relatives and
Friends Getting It?
Do You Know That Ad
vertising is the Life of
Trade and the Only
Real Business Getter
VOLUME IX. NUMBER 4.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2:3, 191.
PRICE, 5c.
Walter S. Dickey fof United States Senator
ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF A. M. E.
, CHURCHES CLOSE IN A BLAZE i
WE MUST HAVE BEHIND US THE
DRIVING FORCE OF PATRIOTIC
SENTIMENT.
OF GLORY.
mutt
II Ami
Appointments Made by Bishop Parks
Gives General Satisfaction
to All.
HON. CHAS. H. CALLOWAY,
One of Kansas City's Brilliant Attorneys.
PROF. JACKSON'S TRIP.
INTERESTING QUESTIONS.
The 49th session of the California
glory on last Sunday evening and the
closing was Indeed a fitting climax to
one of the greatest conferences over
held on the Pacific Coast.
On Sunday morning HIsliop Parks
reached a memorable sermon; one
of those soul-stlrrlng sermons, and as
result thereof, one of the greatest
plrltual awakenings manifested Itself
that It has ever been the writer's lot
witness. Strong men and women
wept and rose from their ihrces In the
audience and came forth professing
Jesus Christ as their Savior. There
was upward of twenty who Joined the
church at this service. Appointments:
Watts Georgo U Trlggs.
Second L. A. E. It. Johnson.
Pomona A. Simpson.
Itedlands C. H. Harris.
San Bernardino .1. II. C. Iledd.
Riverside C. J. Lockhardt.
Ward Chapel, L. A. J. W. Price.
First Church, U A. J. Logan Craw.
San Diego 13. R. Grey.
Pasadena W. W. S. Dyett.
Duarte H. Judklns.
Santa Barbara J. A. Duncan.
The Allenswor.th Literary and In- (By BenJ. V. Longdon.)
dustrial Club Invited me to come to ye can distinguish four ways, all
Los Angeles, Cal., to put on a play ot taem imnortnnt in which questions
In the Trinity Auditorium, one ot the
leading play houses there, for the
benefit of the Old Folks'' Home. I
wenL and had 100 voices In a program
of two parts; the first p atrconslstlng
of folk songs, organ and piano num
bers, and the second part 100 voices
In Coleridge Taylor's Hiawatha Wed
ding Feast dramatized. The stage
setting Including palm trees, pine
trees, eepees and other Indian effects,
were loaned to us by the park commis
sioners of the city ot Los Angeles. We
sang at the first II. E. church, also
to an audience of 2,000 people, and I
played a large pipe organ In that
church. I played the largest pipe or
gan I ever played In my life; It had
80 stops,- contained" harps, chimes,
bells, orchestral effects and has one
stop that "sounds like a human voice.
The people" were very much surprised
because there had never been a Negro
may be used; but we will take the use
ot questions as an aid to memory as
being appropriate and the most famil
iar of the four kinds of questioning.
And It is generally agreed that its
value lies In the fact that a well cho
sen series of questions may touch ev
ery desired point, bringing each In
turn into prominence and so impress
ing it upon the memory.
Memory is easily first among the
sacred faculties ot the soul. It may
well fill us with awe that wo were
created with the power to love, to for
give, to -will, to choose, to anticipate;
but moat of all, to remember. Yet we
need constant reminders of the best
the highest, the. holiest things, in life.
They are much in danger ot being
marred and defaced In the dally scuf
fle and in a little while forgotten ut
terly. And this, "lest we forget," Is
precisely the main trouble with our
race. We have forgotten; in the rush,
and stress of things we have almost
forgotten our duty to the church, the
school, the home, and our loyalty to
our business and professional men
Do you subscribe for any ot our week
ly publications? The majority of us
on the subscription list have gone to
such lengths that we have simply for-
I gotten that we are. You receive your
j paper all right, but where Is the
change? I recall the young Mrs
Smith, who discovered that her maid
was strongly addicted to eating at
all hours of the day. One day she or
dered four pounds ot veal for dinner.
When the veal failed to appear on the
table she questioned Bridget, who told
her that the cat had eaten It. Mrs
Smith placed the cat on the scales
and found that It weighed exactly four
pounds. "Well, Bridget," said she,
"here Is the veal all right, but where
Is the cat?"
PROF. ROBERT G. JACKSON,
Musical Instructor of Western Uni
versity, who has Just returned from a
tour to the Pacific Coast In the Inter
est of the University and who made
ROSEDALE, KANSAS.
(By Mrs. Rosa Jones.)
Lorena Caswell Is recovering
the "hit .of his life" wth the grand I from a recent illness at Mrs. Frank
Mrs.
Western cities.
muslcales conducted by him In the I jioore's, her sister, of 39th and Lloyd
....Mrs. Laura Tucker, 4010 Adams
street, is ill. .. .Ground breaking ser
vices for new Pleasant Valley Baptist
Church' will be held Sunday afternoon
at 3 o'clock. The ground will be
broken by a number of small chil
dren. The sermon afterwards will be
preached by Rev. J. W. Hurse, Music
by the Stt. Stephen's Baptist choir.
Mrs. Joseph Collins, 3921 Lloyd ave
nue, is improving nicely after her
recent operation, and Is now at home.
to play It before. I assisted with the
music at Bishop Park's Conference,,
and gave a concert In Oakland, with
100 voices. The concert In Oakland
was very successful. The people ot
California certainly know how to treat
a visitor. They had dinner parties,
ocean parties and automobile parties"
galore. While in Los Angeles I or
ganized a Western University Club.
We have sixteen students there. The
purpose is going to be 'to give a schol
arship to some worthy person every
year.
Mrs. Sallie Jackson played on our
program at Los Angeres and took the
house by storm. A number of the
white people said they did not know
we had such, an efficient pianist in
our race.
Mr. Nelson C. Crews and Mr. George
Love, while they were in California,-
certainly won the hearts of the people,
and the people are stilt talking about
them everywhere and they are scream
ing for them to come back. They say
It has been a long time "since they
have had a man speak like Crews.
R. G. JACKSON.
Mrs. Sallie J. S. Wh.te returned
from Lawrenco, Kansas, the 14th Inst
having accompanied her daughter, Al
berta George White, who entered the
University of Kansas. She reports
the following students In attendance
there from Greater Kansas City
Doris Novel,- Doris Lovlngs, Irma Fra-
ler, Marian Brown, Pearl Newton
Ashley Hawkins, James Chandler,
Earl Fowler, Melvln Fowler, Crawford
Darden. Mrs. White visited the vari
ous departments of the university and
attended tho first entertainment by
the Senior Sorority in honor of the
Freshman girls at the residence of
Miss Jone.s of New York street, Sep
tember 13.
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 24
WILL BE WESTERN UNIVERSITY DAY
AT ALLEN OHAPEL '
At tho 11 o'clock seryice Dr. IL,T. Kealing will preaqh and a
chorus of 100 students will assist the choir, under the leadership
of Professor R. Q. Jackson.
EVERYBODY
INVITED
in i
max&8iQ cert
ECHOES FROM THE BUSINESS
LEAGUE.
The Kansas City Sjjji, capably edited
by Nelson C. Crews, published his pa
per as a dally durlhg the League's
period, and gave a lSlily Illuminating
report of the procecjiftigs hot off the
bat. The papers so)iJ like hot cakes,
showing business acumen On the part
of the management; & well as paying
a gracious compllmerft. to the League.
Tuskegee Student.
1
"I have a great vision of this coun
try. We are entering, as I have In
timated, upon a new economic era.
We have behind us the driving force
t of patriotic sentiment. We must have
a dominant Bense of unity. That sent
iment must express Itself In unswerv
ing loyalty; and through Its govern
ment It must express Itself In main
t talnlng the rights of American citizens
on land and sea in every part of the
, world. We cannot progress as a na
tion without a national sentiment that
prizes American citizenship and con
serves nil the rights that pertain to
American citizenship. We must have
that indomitable spirit that gave us
our country, that preserves our coun
try, If In tho days of the troubled twen
i tleth century, we hold an honored
! place among the nations of the world.
We must have efficiency In govern-
fment." Mr. Hughes In his speech at
Portland, Maine.
CARD OF THANKS.
The family ot Mrs. Henry Pullam
wishes to express their thanks to the
friends, neighbors and pallbearers for
their kindness and assistance during
the illness and death of their wife and
mother. Henry Pullam. husband;
Mrs. Lizzie Flood, daughter; Mr.
Thomas W. Flood, son-in-law; David
Pullam, Elmer E. Pullam, sons.
JOHN MITCHELL, JR.,
One of the greatest Negroes living, editor of the Richmond (Va.) Planet, the most fearless Negro Journal
published in the South; Grand Chancellor of the K. of P. of Virginia for nany years, president of the Me
chanics Bank of Richmond, with a capital of $100,000, and bears the honor with becoming meekness of being
the only Negro member of the American Bankers' Association, which meets in Kansas City next. week. Mr.
Mitchell rts also one of the most prominent laymen of the great Baptist denomination in this country, and on
next Tuesday evening, September 26, will lecture to the citizens of Greater Kansas City, white and colored,
at the SECOND BAPTIST CHURCH, 10th and Charlotte streets; Dr. S. W. Bacote, pastor. John Mitchell is one
of the greatest orators and best thinkers of the race, and to miss hearing him Is to miss the greatest treat
of tho year. The price of admission will be 25 cents, and the proceeds are for the benefit of this great
Church. Everybody go and hear him. Good music and an excellent program In connection wth the address.
PETER C. KINCAID,
One of the best known men and Masons of the State of Missouri, who
passed away Wednesday evening, September 20.
Peter C. Kincaid, one of the best
known men ot this city and state,
passed away Wednesday evening at
o'clock at his residence, 1605 Vir
ginia avenue, after an extended ill
ness of several months. Mr. Kincaid
was born in Danville, Ky., in 1865. In
1885 he was married to Miss Tina
Wake of Nichlos, Kentucky.
P. C. KINCAID PASSED AWAY. I (Royal Arch Masons); Past Captain
General of Emanuel Commandery;
Allah Temple No. 6 (Mystic Shrine),
and K. G. Consistory No. 7, under
whoso auspices the funeral will bo
held Sunday afternoon from Allen
Chapel at 1 o'clock. Rev. Wm. H.
Thomas will officiate, assisted by tho
Rev. Alford of the Second Christian
i Church.
I Mr. Kincaid leaves to mourn his de-
Mr. Kincaid has been very active mise a wife, mother, stepfather, two
In fraternal societies, being a member sisters, two brothers and two Bons.
of Green Pasture Lodge No. 128, A. F. j Interment will be In Highland ceme
& A. M.; St. Paul Chapter No. 4 1 tery.
CHILLICOTHE, MISSOURI.
(By B. V. Longdon.)
Mr. Luther CUnkscale of Chicago,
111., is visiting relatives and friends.
Mrs. Brown of Olathe, Kansas, Is
spending a few days with Mr. and
Mrs. Oscar Black.
Miss Hattle Davis of Winnipeg, Can
ada, Is the guest of Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Williams.
Mr. James Burton, a representative
citizen in secular and religious affairs,
temporarily located at Detroit,
Mich.
Since our last notes, the steady In
crease of the enrollment at Garrison
High School since the opening day
and the departure of Gee Parker to
attend the High School at Lincoln,
Xeb. : and Bessie Banks to Chicago,
111., where she will attend a training
school for misses, and Robert Green,
Gee Slaughter. Clementine Banks, No-
rean Slaughter, Laura Bell Hayes and
Annabel Banks to attend Lincoln In
stitute, betokens a very gratifying
Ign for our people.
Bakersfield R. II. Harbert.
Fresno Circuit A. O. Steele.
Stockton J. E. Fletcher.
Sacramento T. A. Harvey.
San Francisco To be supplied.
Oakland J. M. Brown.
Marysvllle Circuit B. E. Edwards.
Red Bluff To be supplied.
Reno To be supplied.
Y. M. GA. Notes
A praiso service opens the season's
Sunday Men's iMeetlngs, Sunday, Oc
tober 1, 3:30 p. m.
The Boys' Bible Class, which begins
the first week in October, will pursue
graded courses, fostered by the In
ternational Committee of the Y. M.
C. A. .
A proposed class basket ball league
among the High School boys has met
with great approval among the boys.
and It looks now as though it will be
a feature in this season's work.
A new gymnasium class has been
formed, which meets at 8 p. m, Tues
day and 11:30 a. m. Saturday. Eight
it those enrolled aro from the Kansas
side.
MOBERLY, MISSOURI.
(By Mrs. W. H. Davis.)
All churches were favored with
large and" appreciative audiences, as
Sunday was go-to-church-day. Collec
tions at each church was good. . . .Mrs.
W. 13. Coleman is reported slightly im
proved, .. .Mrs. Wm. Wells entertain
ed Friday .evening-. In honor of Sirs.
Lydta Taylor, who departed Monday
for Chicago, Ills., to mako her future
home.... Miss Edith Randolph ot Han
nibal, Mo., passed through the city
Monday enroute trom Brunswick to
Louisiana, iMo Mrs. Ella Franklin
has returned homo from an extended
visit in Colorado and reports a delight
ful time.... Rev. L. W. Harris ot Car-
ronton, Mo., passed through tho city
Wednesday,... Rev. Reeves, who was
taken seriously ill Sunday, is able to
be out again Mr. Faye West left
Thursday for Ohio, whero ho -will, en
tor WHborforco university to take a
pharmaceutical course. .
Dr. E. A. Walker announces
change ot Bell Phono to East 4550
Same location, 18th and Faseo.
BRE'R EFE ON 'SCRIPTIONS.
Sally Ann won't pay her 'scriptlon
Still dat paper she raus' hab;
Ef de newsboy falls to fetch It
- Den ho gits a lot o' gr-b.
When de klecter comes for money
Sally always tells dat man:
Come termorrow, come nex' Monday,
An' I'll hab it, ef I can."
Po.' ole fellow j:omes nex' Monday,
Sally's In de same ole fix.
How dat fellow runs dat paper
Dat's de compound I can't onmix.
VINE STREET BAPTIST CHURCH
Mr. George W., Taylor, who ha
been sick for the past week, is much
improved at this writing. We hope
he will continue to improve. ,. .The
Woman's Mission Circle elected th
following officers: Mrs. Gertrude
Tlbbs, president; Mrs. Clara S. Freo
more, secretary; Mr. ThomaB-Pollars
chaplain. We hope the Mission Circle
a successful year and that it will bring
tho banner back with them this year.
Mrs. A. E. Johnson -was re-elected as
treasurer.
Miss Sadie Saunders of Des Moines,
la., and formerly of this city, has re
turned for an indefinite stay. Miss
Saunders is a graduate in the 'Mrs.
J. Walker method of scientific
treating of the hair and scalp, and
will give treatments bore and In near
by cities. Anyone wishing to Improve
their hair should write or' see her at
the home of Mrs. Ann Saunders, 220
Liberia street.
REV. J. W. HURSE HONORED.
One of the most inspiring, enthusi
astic and intellectual services was
held at St. Stephen's Baptist church
Sunday evening, September-17. -Ia the
presence of the committee appointed
by Conroe Normal and Industrial col
lege to confer the degree of honor.
Rev. Dr. J. W. Hurse graced his pul
pit in the usual manner, soliciting the
prayers of his people, and also of his
distinguished guests, if they felt so
disposed, and delivered one of the
most able sermons in the history ot
his pastorate. It was indeed an even
ing of long remembrance to the mem
bers and friends of St. Stephen's Bap
tist church, and as the hour was grow
ing late, time would not permit us to
express our thankfulness. We are in
deed proud of our pastor, whom we
feel is a God-sent blessing to our peo
ple, and we realize that we have not
words to form in sentences that will
adequately express our gratitude. Wo
can only look at him as a lily of the
valley. How he grows! We, the of
ficers and members and friends of St.
Stephen's Baptist church, extend to
President Dr. David Abner of Conroe
Normal and Industrial College our sin
cere appreciation for the high honor
bestowed upon our pastor. Rev. J. w.
Hurse. Wo pray that his life may be
full of sunshine and that ho may live
long and give high honors to other
struggling and deserving men who are
trying to make their mark in life. To
the noted leaders In our city who con
ferred this degree we extend to you
our appreciation and will always wel
come you in our midst, as you always
bring sunshine and intelligence in our
church.
(Signed) G. W. BROWN, M. D.
MRS. SOPHIA LYONS.
Grand Musical Fete
AT
LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1916
JAMES JOHNSON and EDWARD MAOKEY
GREAT BLIND WONDERS
i
To whom all musical instruments are alike
will appear .at the above place and date
ADMISSION 25 CENTS RESERVED SEATS, 35 CENTS
Under the auspices of the Lincoln High School Parent.
Teachers' Association.
WILLIAM H. DAWLEY,
Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
MRS. F. D. GLEED,
President.
