The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1916
NUMBER 51
V
ft
? v 8
PAT CROWE, FAMOUS EX-BANDIT,
NOW A FEEDER OF BLOODED DOGS
And While So Engaged is Writing
Scenario That is Supposed to
Astonish the World
It Promises to Put Ibsen, Lincoln J.
Carter, and all Other "Thrillers"
in the Background
In years gone by Chief of De
tectives now county collector Dick
Fulks, the present United States Dep
uty Marshal Bill T. Wheeler, Pat
Ryan, now chief of the Bertlllon of
fice; Charley Hensloy, now with the
Burlington secret service department,
and about one-half of the then police
force of St. Joseph, and all of the
deputies that could be spared out of
buerlff Jim Sampson's office used 'to
Bpend about half of their tlme'up in
the French Bottoms and around Dug
Hill and the waterworks chasing Pat
Crowe. They never did catch Pat, but
they got near enough on several oc
casions to exchange shots with him
and his pals, but that was about as
much "meat" as the boys .ever got.
Pat was too elusive and kept out of
gunshot and handcuffs.
At that time Pat was engaged in a
general Hue of outside happenings
which looked to the sleuths as if they
needed attention, and his agility final
ly developed into the kidnaping of
young Cudahy at Omaha, for which
Pat finally settled with tho pork
packer by accepting ?25,000 of the
ham dispenser's money, and a clear
ance to stay out of "the pen as far as
the man of beef and pork was con
cerned. With his easily acquired
J25.000 Pat had a Joyous time while it
lasted". Then when broke he did not
like to return to his old gang, so he
' tried preaching for awhile and ex
horted till that wore out. Then he
stepped out on the prohibition plat
form and preached temperance until
he got to drinking so hard that the
prohibition lecture bureau would not
pay his salary any longer. Now he
has struck a new gait and a new
level. The famous Pat Is now writing
a motion picture scenario, and his
field is in an ordinary back yard in
St. Paul, where he Is employed as
caretaker for a pack of dogs.
A Dollar a Day and Found
Thomas Tobin Is a noted dog fancier
of St. Paul and he has hired Crowe,
once the winner of $25,000 in ransom,
to feed and take care of forty dogs at
1 a day and board.
And with the noise of the dogs ring
ing in his ears, Pat has now been
yill be a world beater, one that will
incorporate his own exciting past, and
be the success of the season.
As Sir Isaac Newton discovered
gravity by being hit In the eye with an
apple while lying on the ground, Pat
discovered his own literary ability by
holding his hands over his ears to shut
out the sound ot the canines.
With a stick handy to chase away
the dogs in case they became too
aggressive, Pat began.
Excitement at Outset
The opening of tho scenario deals
with tho birth of the hero, and con
tinues: "At ten years old enters family
wardrobe while parents are away.
Gets costly linen, makes palr wings,
trieB to fly from top of barn. Falls
In mud pond where hogs are wallow
ing, rescued by sister, Tillle Crowe."
There It If, a bit ot excitement right
at the start, Including a rescue by a
girl.
As Pat reached this point a large
shepherd dog approached him. Why
;i Incorporate a dog in the story?
f No sooner said than done.
The scenario goes on:
"Afraid of beating, he gets his faith
ful shepherd dog, goes across field and
climbs haystack and at sunset across
the field" picture the sunset and the
boy on tho haystack "falls asleep as
dog stands watch.
"Darkness gathers and parents re
turn homo from town with candy and
toys."
Instead of a whip, parents bring
goodies, a contrast worthy ot George
I'
Bernard Shaw.
"The boy is nowhere to be found.
An exciting search afoot and on horse
back is a failure. Mother's lone night
vigil is rewarded by barking of faith
ful dog from top of haystack, which is
being surrounded by pack of timber
wolves."
Thrill? Lincoln J. Carter was a
T)1k,r pnmn.ireil m I'm
A Thrilling Rescue I
"Father hastens to the rescue of
seeping boy. who was all unconscious I
of his peril. Father drives away pack
ot wolves with rail taken from old
fashioned rail fence."
The dogs In the back yard set up a
whining for their dinner as Pat
reached this point.
After eating his own dinner, Pat
felt more like a love scene. So he
sketched a bit of Robert W. Chambers
stuff:
"Hero starts work in packing in
dustry Stockyatds scene Meets girl'
daughter of hotel keeper. Marries and
..i i .... "
ai-uiva in iuikiki'.
A regular cottage, vine clad and all ',sl''u'"" " ".. '".u' " l-'"- "- """ " "-- """ V . "t T . . ond husband Is dead or she is divorced
the rest but then conies trouble- commission man; Hugh Bowen. post- into th. world to do good, and that nianueu anything of them. There was from him, can be restored to the roll
,..' ,,mfr, .rV , ,, mastor ot South St. Joseph; C. F. En- was all that sho did during the long no controversy between the sowrn- at 112 per month until she .reaches
m,,rl, ment and tne rnUroad en-P-oy'. nor seventy, at which time she will be
nier sweetheart of wife talking to wife ' .... . m. t ,. , , i. . uironn t,o ,r,r,mor,t r,i u .n come entitled to $20 per month,
at the gate. In Jealous rage leaves Crandall. county agricultural agent. with humanity-and for humanity's bet eon the government and the rail- .A wld0w who married a soldier be
home " Henrick Ibsen stuff "Falls After tho neilrlnK tne commission good. road managements. The controversy tWeen June 27, 1890, and June 27, 1305,
( -tiv, ih f.iQ,i f ...,.i, ,..'v, .!- was taken to the Country Club, where She was of good old Virginia stock, was purely Industrial, waged between is entitled to 112 per month until she
in wun oia inenu or outn, wno taKes ,..., ... ,..., ,.,... w . ..i ... envomi h,n,,iroH i,n,,.,n,i ,. ,..u reaches seventv vears of ace. after
him to saloon, a crook's hangout.
"Train robbery is planned and car
ried out." (Al Jennings please note.)
"Sent to prison, but wife gets pardon.
They seek seclusion of mountains to-
gather. Discover copper mine." (A bit
Jf Oliver Optic.) "Great wealth. Lives
in style. Attends 'cabarets with
friends."
As Pat finished the scenario, ho
!nrose to give the dogs their supper.
"What do you think of it?" he asked
a friend. "I exnect 'o sell that for a '
big sum."
OPEN DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN i
The Democrats of this county will
11 XZ I'LL TJT...,;".
wB'v h.i viuiiu4ii ulai kjiuuiuu;
starting with a grand rally at that, man who asked him who was going to'- ;-" ;"";;;"""";,:., "' 'eawonau.e means oi averting mis -i, ...
stronghold of Democracy. Rushvllle. win the European war he said: Church v. ho v. a her pastor The pall, catastrophe." The senator pointed out "Say." he
where the hnll will hn .tnr.n.1 to mil. "Oh. no one's going to win It," ho cnri'rB w"e.."e L ?obert8.' . the Posslble tftects 0' a strike on the pans are the
Imr At nil nfthPmPPtln to hhPll 'answered instantly. "The interests ' mle- - " u llllan,s' '". frult growers of the Far West, on cept that
.... . j,- .... . . k. II. xeweomhp. H. ii. Harris, rrue
all ot the county officers will be pres-'wm see 10 mat. Tiiey want a urawi"- y - ----- ---
ent and at the principal ones Con-' so the' can do it again. But it has uavis ana u " "eus-
gressman Booher will be present and! gone too far this time. They've got a - J1,p ""'"JJ""8;,, J
address tho assemblages It Is pro- i frankenstein on their hands. I think , looKed "Pon her a,raost as a "aughter
posed to make the campaign a most1 the people are going to run things in ' """"J.0;,,''" ,""!?"?" t!:"!'.;"
.n .. .. . .. .. . .. tnoir behalf, turned out to attend tne
vigorous one. The meetings as ar -
ranged will be as follows:
Rushvllle, Sept. 30, B. II. Martin,
speaker.
San Antonio, Oct. 2, Horace Merrltt.
Sherwood schoolhouse, Oct. 3, J. R.
Clay.
Frazlec, Oct. 4, A. B. Duncan.
Halls, Oct. 5, Charles W. Mayer.
Burnett schoolhouse, Oct. 6, R. E.
Culver.
Easton, Oct. 7, J. G. Parkinson.
Saxton, Oct. 9, E. M. Swartz.
Faucett, Oct. 10, S. K. Owen.
Woodbine. Oct. 11. James W. Myt-
ton.
Connett schoolhouse, Oct. 12, John
Connett.
Garretsburg. Oct. 13. Charles H.
Mayer.
Agency, Oct. 14, A. B. Duncan.
Spring Garden, Oct. 16, Horace Mer
litt. French Bottoms, Oct. 17, John W.
Mulr.
Wallace. Oct. 18, L. C. Gabbert.
Maxwell schoolhouse, Oct. 19, C. A.
Porter.
Hurllngen, Oct. 20, Barney Rellly.
DeKalb, Oct. 21. Louis V. Stlgall.
Whitney Lelghty, a well known resi
dent ot the South End, was struck
Monday night at Fifth and Edmond
streets by a Jitney driven by a woman
named Purvis, and seriously Injured,
three ribs being broken and other
painful Injuries being sustained.
Lelghty Is ln the hospital.
A GREAT MEETING
St.
Joseph Makes a Good Showing
Before the Land Bank Com-
i mlssloners
If St. Joseph docs not got one of
I the land banks, it will not bo because
the citizens of this place and this
community did not try and did a
splendid Job of trying.
I When the land bank commission
'composed of Secretary of the Treasury
a JMcAdoo, Ocorgo W. Norris, chairman;
I Herbert Quick, Charles E. Lobdell and
W. S. A. Smith reached hern Wednes
1 day forenoon they were taken In
charge by a Commerce Club commit
tee headed by Col. It. M. Ilachellcr
and taken to the Hotel Robldoux,
where they attended a Commercial
Club dinner, and from there were
taken to the courthouse, where a hear-
ing of the case was held which was
presided over by Secretary McAdoo.
The meeting was very largely at-
tended, delegations of farmers and
business men from all of the territory ,
adjacent to this city being in attend-
ance and urging the claims of St. Jo-
seph. The claims of St. Joseph were!
not only presented verbally but were
embodied in a handsomely bound brief '
which was presented the commission.
Among those who verbally presented i
the claims of St. Joseph were It. M.i
Bacheller, chairman of the speclnl
committee of the Commerce Club in
charge of the movement to obtain a'
hfinlr rnr St. .iosptih; snmnei i). .
... . ,. , ,t
Cromer, of the agricultural college of
',"S8UU"; ' uul iU' u'' ""- -""MISS '-OUI5A TUTT
President of the Federation of Missouri
Agricultural Societies: W. B. Strang
j of Kansas City, president of an inter?
urban line; Ben Stuart, Rushvllle,
farmer and fruit grower; H. L. Songer,
I Daviess County, abstractor, W. H.
,j..aei, Jl uir i-Ait-ii-iuii uci.a. micni, ,
Missouri state
agricultural college; is. .
H. Sanders. Worth County, stock (
dealer: D. O. Decker, civic commls-
sioner of the Commerce Club, who pre-
sented St. Joseph's case; R. N. Glenn,
assistnnt superintendent of mails of i Illness ot seven months. There are
St" Jose"h Ptoffice; Judge W. K.jfew ladu-s in St. Joseph who will
James, R. T. Forbes, president First more mnsed than Miss Tutt. b he was
'.... i
it.n ..-. inni ii'oiin lintfin ii'AAinni
iney were enivriHineu at uiiuier, autr
which they departed for Lincoln. Neb.
FORD FOR WILSON
The Automobile Man While at Kansas
City Says that Wilson is Good
Enough for Him
.
Henrv Ford the min who niiket
millions of machines and Incidentally
millions of dollars from making them.i
was In Kansas CItv Wednesday, and
while there was, as usual, interviewed
by the newspaper men. He reiterated'8 cousin' dIe? ln m
his statement made some time ago as' '"" "" -" --.. wu.
to his being for Wilson and also added the rPSluence anl were very largely
other interesting features. To a Times '""ended. The services were In charge
'nrope aller lnis. u mey uo mere.
will be no more war."
"What do you think of Mexico?" -
"I think that Wilson is onto the fel
lows that are trying to make trouble
down there. That's what I think, don't
you?"
The reporter tried to beg the ques
tion but Ford pressed it.
You've been on the border all sum
mer and don't know that American tn- j
terests are stirring up those ignorant)
peons to tiro across tho border?" he1
asked pityingly. "Why, ot course youi
But Wilson Is onto them. I know!
he Is. I told him about it myself."
1.1-l.rt.. ..m, u.... nnHralt. ontlaflail
' " J"" ac wiiviicij ttu ucu
ii-UI. ilm WMIann nialfrn nnUrtw9"
"He has kept us out of war.' hasn't
he' The country Is prosperous isn't
If' There's no probability of our get -
ting Into war, Is there? Remember
I'm a Republican, but that's enough
of a platform for any party."
"His onnonents sav that his nolicv
camo much nearer provoking war with
Germany than otherwise."
"How do you mean?"
"They cite his noto to Germany"
the reporter began.
"Note to Germany, hell!" Ford in
terrupted and added, cryptically,
"There are Interests in Germany, too,
you know."
All roads will lead to St. Joseph's
Fashion Show next week. There will
be all kinds ot free attractions and
plenty of amusement for all.
M'ADOO IS SANGUINE
Is Satisfied that President Wit-
ton Will Be Reelected by a
. Decided Majority
Secretary of the Treasury Mc-
Adoo is not only optimistic, but
he Is sanguine that President
Wilson will be reelected in No-
vember, and that with a decisive
majority. When seen at the Robl-
doux he secretary, prior to the
meeting of the land bank com-
mis.'lon, was not at all averse to
saying a few words about the po-
litical situation. Answering a
question as to what he thought
of the chances for President Wil-
sop success, he said:
"Things are In the best pos-
sibe condition. The Democratic
party is united as solidly as the
best of feeling and unanimity
could make any organization, and
as
to its
fighting capabilities,
thpy were never better.
I am as
confident from all I have seen
and heard and I have had many
different points for observation
that President Wilson will bo re-
elected in November as I am that
We shall have an election on No-
vember "th. Every sign and indi-
4cation points to a splendid vie-
tory- and
our earnest working j
will bring it about."
Dejncrats
o '.'..
PASSES AWAY
j?"
Joseph Lady Is
Well Known St,
Called" to the Great Beyond
It was with dean regret that the
... "- .... .iv-i- .wc ui.h wi
people 01 at. josepn learneu 01 me
. .. . ...
death of Miss Louisa Tutt, which oc
curred at the home of Mrs. M. J. Wil
liams, 315 North Fifth street, at 5
o'clock Wednesday morning, after an
. .. . . . .
rr r iin 11 nn nr ii--rii nn itMr ii-riij ntn
uutiiiK ueeii uuiu 111 wuii'iiiiei- i.uuui,
that state, and was a daughter of the
late Judge Tutt, who filled the office
ot Probate Jlluce of this county from
IKS") tn 1XK7 In TX:p.ri sho W til Her
"v " ww.. .www w..w ...... ...
I family located in Calloway County,
I this state, and later came to St. Jo-
seph. where she had resided for the
'greater Dart of her life. She now has
' -Natives' living here among whom are
1 M.rs' MInetry Jones, Mrs. Staughton
"'"'' "ss - ""'" """
S' Crlttaln. Jr-. R- E- Hastings and
ll'ii !.. ! 1 t I rt K.-i.l ItHiflnln IrtHn
, Mrs' Samuel ' Motter. R. E. Turner,
TLrt f1H.nl njitiitfnnn AAST,llvs.r1 f ffm
- , T
sen ices. They as well as all St. Jo-
seph feel that in the taking away of
Miss tutt they nave lost one oi inose
friends whose place can never be
filled. I
THE AMENDE HONORABLE
How Chicken Stealing Accusations
Are Disposed of in Nodaway
County
"':"'" "'
It-.. ..!!.. A. .....J
; ' " "" "
' JM- ..iw.iwu.i. so. i
.- . , . , .i..i.
i, ii. a. urown, Deing uuiy stoni,
on oath doth dePse and sa' that e
!repo" crcuiaung aooui mai i caugni
l Mr Chas- Hicks on lny farm dealing
chlckens ,s a 'alseh00(1. anl whoever
! ur,Bmaltu lma "c UJual ul um u '"'
f JKl- or lo Darra "ir- ",tK8'
' " A' uronn-
Subscribed and sworn to before me
this 1st day of Sept., 1916. (Seal)
My commission expires June 21.
1917.
Fay H. Casteel. Notary Public.
Js'ext week will bo Fashion Week for
St. Joseph, and the city shop windows
will bo dressed In their brightest plum
age. There will bo many free attrac
tions, Including aeroplane flights and
the '.'Battle Cry of Peace." All tho
country tributary to St. Joseph will be
here.
nf Tr T T.7 nfllnrM nf hn Kircf nnntltat i .. .. . t.. il1
SEN. STONE TELLS
THEM ABOUT IT
the Criticisms Made '
Answers
of Wilson's Action in the
Railroad Troubles
PAYS HIS RESPECTS '
TO TRADUCERS
. ' ident was right. Moreover when pow-
' erful, opulent, sinister, special inter
In His Vigorous and Characteristic ets assail the president because of this
Style Missouri's Great Senator De-1 fine act of Christian statesmanship,
fends the Action of President Wil. I would ask the workingmen, who with
son In Averting a Strike Which , the president must bear the brunt of
Would Have Prostrated the Business these attacks for they are aimed at
of the United States and Brought the great labor interests of the coun
Want and Suffering on All, and try what answer they will make
Shows that as a Result of His Action
the Country Is Behind Our Great
President.
Th.. o.ii n ., .
Iho national Democratic committee
from its Chicago headquarters this
week issued a statement by Missouri's!
great senator, William Joel Stone,
I which is entitled "A Work About the I
, So-Called Eight-Hour Law as Related '
10 nailroad Operatives," and which Is '
clalmed t0 represent the thought ot
... ,
ilne administration upon the subject.
I Ag usual wUh a th,ngg wWch
undertakes. Senator Stone handled the
subject vigorously and forcefully and
without gloves.
tnat ne said was
niong other thing?
I .niocc ti, ...,,. r i. t, .
Messrs. Hughes, Roosevelt, Root,
Lodge, Penrose, Crane, Pierpont Mor-
san' GeorSe W. Perkins and that en-
Liif ut'iiiiH TiLtinirtina inni rn nrnu .
- -- i-
iiiinr qtiii nrn rvyr a r .. km.. .. .-... ... -....
uw..i ui.u vuujj.uaa sutiuuui'lt'U lu luil'e
and thereby discredited public author-
ity and weakened the foundations of
our governmental institution.
Paiitv nn. wo:t,.o rk,-.
Falsity One Weakness of Charge
"One weakness about this charge is
that it is false. Nobody threatened
.y,- .,Di,, v.i.. j.
luu 111 irn iiirin in i-iinif i hhv iiii iiiiiv mi.
.-. ..v. .nuunu.n, men .mu
actually operate trains on the one
hand and the managers of the rail-
roads on the other.
"Tho trnnh o iinH rooolm.l o m nt on
. ..w .ww.w ....u .V..VM...U (. t'UIUk CU
acute that these hundreds ot thou-
sands of men were on the verge of a
strike; they were about to quit work
and thus leave the entire railroad
transportation of the country tied up
for an indefinite period
. .
ine statement then points out that
whlle the crisls exlstea, senators and
representatives and members of the
administration were receiving com-
m - --
munications from all sections of the
countr. indicating that "the public
ntiment almost universally favored
.---:- ul u.u, wuuas smi.ymK
S"Un on contracts, manufacturers of
s,eel and texU,ea under eontract to be
shipped, on the fuel supply of the
C"n,ry and 0n tho minlns and timber
... h..,.,, nn.i ,t...i. niit.i tn .
finiliiti r0 Hi.nntnAlf n r - r, I t a-t t -.
uui...B uu m.u ..., uma
and dependents.
"The fact is," he continued.
the
,.,. ., , ... ., ... .,...
, M .lmri . .. . , .
W-.V.....U VB J -...t' ... IttV l'lVVO J
food, coal and all the necessaries of
life nnd Industry and It Is worthy of
note that when the danger passed
I prices went back to normal.
"These are the things the president
faced and such the calamity he brave
ly, patiently, patriotically sought to
avert.
I "Who blames him? Mr. Hughes says
he should have Investigated the ques
tions at issue before acting. They
cnuni In thtnV itio nUlinimh !. t.n..nn
"' ''" ''i 'iu(iu mc uousc
T" "f; ' f Pldent should have
'"i""" "" '" i '" u-
Je putting it out. instead of first put-
ting it out and then investigating the
Amazed at Justice Hughes
"I
can understand this argument
vnt. nmde D). n)en ,lko j perpont
' Morgan, George W. Perkins and oth-
ers of that type, but I am amazed that
Justice Hughes should adopt It. I am
amazed that he would ally himself
with Mr. Morgan multimillionaire
j Prince of Wall street, maker and
re.K- oi ra.irouus. ioru oi me urn -
Ish exchequer In America.
"I's that roally the Issue that Mr.
Hughes presonts to the judgment of
the American peoplo? For myself I
proclaim this achievement, considered
ln its immediate and patent blessings.
as one of the greatest In tho history of
the republic.
"Mr. Hughes, hard driven, Is ap
pealing to powerful special interests.
I am sorry to behold this spectacle in
our public life. I am sure the presi
dent will not shrink from this Issue.
He has other things of vastly greater
,mp?rt?ce. t0 talk, bout' b"1 !,e ca"
meei una issue wunoui a snauow ai
apprehension.
"I would turn from Morgan, Perkins,
Root, Iloosevelt, Lodge, Penrose and
all such as these who preach these
strange doctrines and ask the great
masses of the people whether the pres-
THE NEW PENSION LAW
Congressman Booher Gives Facts Con-
cernlng the New Rating as Ap-
,, . ,..
piled to Widows
The following letter from Congress
man Charles F. Booher of this district
will prove of great interest to the
widows of war veterans of i
U says:
this section.
"As a matter of interest to many of
your readerg , wjgh tQ ady,ge that the
Asnnrook widows' pension Din nas do
coTnH-
Under the Droisions of this law a
widow whose name is now on the roll
at a less rate is entitled to have her
pension increased to 20 per month,
07ldcd( elther that she wi.s the wKe
0f the soldier during his service In
the Civil War, or that she has reached
,. a . ., ..,.,,, Tn .,,.,,
fcnu- uj-, .. o ..- -.. ... uuu
ca,p(. no formai anc
no formal application is re-
miirpil A lnttpr nrlHrpsspri tn the Pnm.
missloner of Pensions, Washington, D.
C, giving the number of her certifl-
cat. tlw name ot the soldier, his com-
Pany and regiment, will insure prompt
atte'ntlon and secure the increaB0 U
warranted,
"A widow who was dropped from the
roil uecuuse oi re-iua
roil Decause oi re-marriage, u iier sei:-
- - - ..
----- -- - - -- 0 ..
W."Vidows coming within either of
tne iast two classes must file formal
applications and furnish evidence to
raiauusu 11..1. uuiuu.
"Respectfully.
"CHAS. F.
BOOHER.'
WHERE HIS THOUGHTS RUN
Terse Sayings of an Evangelist Who
Is Holding Forth at Maryvllle
this Week
"Any one would think this a taber
flt t .,.--! 4 t.nM.-1.nM mmTJ
hickm insieau oi a uiuerun.i.. .am
Dr. Scoville. commenting on the fact
in Monday night's collection were
said, "these Maryvllle
finebt In the world ex-
kind that rings a bell for
.. .tnllaa. t...n ViaIIh fnn n tinlT flMln
uae uu, iu m 1-1 a ., iu
bells for a quarter, starts an alarm
clock for a dlme- rPeats the alarm
for a nickel, fires a pistol for a penny
and snaps a pictUre f0r nothln"
Eight dollars, S halves, 65 quarters,
121 dimes, 123 nickels and 27 pennies
,.,,, n ,h TnP,iav rollectinn. the
evancelist announced last night. "And
-.-- -
only about one out of ten gave." he
declared.
STIFEL'S LITTLE LAMM.
"I am Stlfel's little Lamm;
Happy all day long I am;
All my trust I place in him.
He Issure to put me in.
"I also love his good friend Howe
Make him leader here and now.
What you do for me today,
When I'm governor I'll repay.
i place my nopes with just you two;
rm pledged to no one else but you.
For the people I don't care a damn-
I am Just your little Lamm."
WANT TO TASTE "PIE"
' Mr. Hughes' failure to show
j cause whj- he 8noud got the
' residency recalls these famous
lines-
' said Simple Simon to the pieman
, . j.ot me tagte your ware
Said the pieman to Simple Simon
First let me see your penny.
, Said Simple Simon to the pieman
' Indeed I haven't any
..tjfflo;'.
