THE BARM DAILY TIMES
HAUKH. VKHMOXT. SATURDAY. SKPTKMHKH 23. 1910.
THICK, ONE CKXT.
VOL. XX NO. 162.
150 TAKEN OFF
STEAMER WHICH
WENT AGROUND
Thn Row Strife PIvini? Between Port-
.. 11V MIA J wwf -j j-.
land and Boston, May Become a To
tal Wreck as She Lies in Dangerous
Position Off Cape Elizabeth, With
Sea Running High 1
GREEK OFFER
TO ENTER WAR
Government Is Said to Have
Submitted Definite Propos
als to Entente Allies
PASSENGERS TAKEN
TO PORTLAND LATER
Crew Remained Aboard the Vessel
Pending the Efforts to Get Her Afloat
The Prevalence of Fog and Ab
sence of Lightship Held Accountable
for Disaster
Portland, Me., Sept. 23. The Eastern Steamship corporation's
passenger steamer Bay State, bound from Boston for Portland,
went ashore on Halycomb rock, just off the tip of Cape Elizabeth,
during a heavy fog early this morning. One hundred and ntty
passengers were taken off in lifeboats and dories. The steamer lies
high and dry in a dangerous position.
The coast guard cutter Ossipee and the tug Portland responded
to the wireless calls, but as the steamer was pounding heavily in a
ground swell it was thought advisable to have the passengers re
moved by the crew of the life-saving station on Cape Elizabeth.
Twenty-five passengers were taken ashore and the others were
transferred to the Ossipee and the Portland and were brought
here. The crew remained aboard.
The Bay State was sighted, approaching the rocks, by a coast
guard patrol man at 3:30 o'clock. He burned a Coston light, but
the warning, if seen, came too late. It is thought' that the absence
of the Cape Elizabeth lightship from her station, five miles off
shore, might have caused the steamer to run off her course, ihe
lightship was towed to Portland for repairs and was replaced Dy a
buoy. All shipping was notified, but it is thought possible that in
the thick weather the buoy might not have been distinguishable.
The Bay State is believed to be in danger of breaking up. It was
in command of Captain Levi Foram.
WHICH WOULD MEAN
WAR IF ACCEPTED
Greece May Declare War on
Bulgaria on Her Own
Account
Athen. via London. Sept. 23. The
Greek government I said on the best au
thoritv to have telegraphed definite pro
posals to the entente eapitols which, If
accepted, will mean Greece' entry Into
the war. If the uncertainty of the rela
tions between Greece, and the entente
continue, it in regarded a not Improb
able that Greece may declare war on lul
gria on her own account.
WORRYING COMBLES.
to
French Have Begun Another Effort
Eject the German.
Spot. 23. The French and
British again have taken the oflenive on
the Somme front and have been rewarded
with adidtional pain. General Haig
made progress toward liapaume, and
General Foch's soldier, who apparently
have begun another effort to eject the
Germans from Combles and its salient
in the entente lines north of the Somme,
also met with success.
After checking German attacks of
Combles. between LePriez farm and Kan
court, the end of the rrench part of the
entente line which almost encircles the
town, the French undertook local opera
tions on the outskirts of Combles itself.
An organized and defended house was
captured, and several trench elements
were occupied. In these enterprises HO
prisoners were taken.
It is announced officially in Paris that
prisoners taken by the Anglo-French on
the Somme from July 1 to Sept. 18 num
ber more than 65,800. Of these, 34,050
fell into the hands of the French.
MONTPELIEIt
Horse Fell from Runway at the New
State Building.
Considerable excitement was caused
early this forenoon, when one of a pair of
horses owned by George Caustic and at
tached to a dirt cart lost its balance and
fell from the wooden runway erected on
the new state building lot. The horse
fell nearly ten feet, and as it was tangled
up in the harness a dozen men worked
for ten minutes before they were able to
release the animal. The other horse was
thrown by the fall of its companion and
narrowly escaped following it down onto
the ground. Close examination failed to
reveal any serious injuries to either animal.
TIP HAM CADET MAJOR.
T. W. Carroll of New York City, gen
eral manager, and C. V. Ames of Boston,
superintendent of the Western Union Tel
egraph company, were visitors at the lo
cal office yesterday, making a brief visit
to Barre before leaving for Burlington.
Mrs. Frank Goss left last, evening for
Chicago, 111., where clie will reside, Mr.
Goss having accepted a position several
weeks ago with a bonding concern lo
cated near there.
By a total of 38 pins the All Stars
defeated the Chauffeurs in the match
game last evening on the Imperial alleys,
the former team winning the first and
kst of the three games. The Chauffeurs
were strengthened by Christopher of Bos
ton, former champion candle.pin bowler
of New England, but he failed to get any
high marks.
Fred Deslaurier of Barre street left
last evening for Boston, Mass., where he
will spend several days with relatives.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Corry left last
evening for Kansas City, Mo., by the
way of New York City, where they will
attend the bankers' association conven
tion, to which Mr. Corry is a delegate
from Vermont.
L. J. Brother, who Las been spending
eeveral days in the mty with friends, left
last evening for his home, Edegmont,
Mass.
Stanilau Quesnel, for many years a
tailor employed by A. J. Gauvareau of
Main street, "this city, has enlisted in the
British army and is stationed at Halifax,
according to letters received in the city.
He left about a month ago to visit rela
tives in Montreal. It is understood he
is the tailor in his regiment.
Recent births in the city: Born, a son,
to Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Gomes of 235
Barre street, at Heaton hospital. Sept.
20; a son to Mr. and Mrs. Jose Cabo of
28S Barre street. Sept. 18; a son to Mr.
nd Mrs. John P. 0"NeiI of 152 Barre
street, Sept. 22; a son to Mr. and Mrs.
Walter T. AlWi of 63 Hill street, Sept.
12, being the 12th child born to Mr. and
Mrs. Allen, all of whom are living. This
is the second American family in the
citr to bar 12 children, all of whom are
living.
E. Savoini of Waterbury and E. Ser
rhiari of Groton arrived in the, city this
morning to pass the week-end with
friends.
To Head the Norwich University Battal
ion This Year.
Northfield, Sept. 23. The following
promotions in the Norwich university ca
det corps have been announced: Cadet
major, W. A. Upham j captain, E. H.
Walton, assigned to troop C; captain,
E. B. Dawson, assigned to troop B; cap
tain, M. H. Greene, assigned to troop A;
first lieutenant and adjutant. Otto R.
Bennett, jr.; first lieutenant, F. U. Gar
ran, assigned to troop A ; first lieutenant,
H. D. Campbell, assigned to troop B;
first lieutenant, W, C. Brigham. assigned
to troop C; second lieutenant, W. E. Da
vis, assigned to troop C; second lieuten
ant, R. E. Knapp, assigned to troop A;
second lieutenant, R. C. Anthony, as
signed to troop B; squadron sergeant
major, G. A. Bixbyj first sergeants, G. H.
Squires, M. H. Gleason, C. B. Olson; ser
geants, C. Cedar;, J. W. Sprague, G. D.
Suter, L. J. Hamilton, R. Pinncy, C. B.
Keefe, A. A. Ogston of Barre, W. B.
Boewe, H. S. Howard, R. A. Burt, C. A. j
Shinquin, A. G. Olsen, W. R, Palmer, j
H. A. Lafrance, R. W. Hewitt; corporals,
H. H. Cameron, W. G. Wilson, J. F.
Loughlin, G. A. Nelson. H. D. Dawson,
N. W. Hooker, C. E. Hathaway, R. J.
Bennett, E. W. Melse, J. D. Barker, .T. W.
Leavitt, E. J. Stockwell, K. Killers, H. P.
Sampson, R. S. Johnson.
MARRIED 65 YEARS.
KINGDOM ONLY IN NAME.
Greece Is One Vast Field of Revolu
tionary Effort.
London, Sept. 23. After saying that
the removal of the Greek censorship will
permit the truth being told, the corre
spondent at Athens of The Daily Mail
hint at the likelihood of former Premier
Venizelos leaving Athens shortly for one
of the districts whore a revolution has
been started, where he will bp able to
organize the whole revolutionsry move
ment.
"The kingdom of Greece," says the
correspondent, "is now only a name. Sa
loniki, Tliasos, Lemnos, Chios, Samos and
Mytilene no longer are governed from
Athens. Crete and Cvclades are about to
follow suit. A proclamation of indepen
dence has been issued in Epirua; this
Larissa district is biding its time, while
Phocis and Acarnania are wavering.
"Only Athens and Peloponnessus (Mo
rea) remain, and Athens is placarded
with such appeals as 'Draw the sword,
king, or abdicate.' These and similar
appeals appearing on placards and in the
press or made from the platform go un
punished, and it is evident that the
king's authority is almost gone. Houses
in Athens are stored with arms for revo
lutionary purposes and openly guarded,
and the king does not dare openly chal
lenge the least act of Venizelos. If Veni
zclos chooses to leave Athens to lead a
separate government elsewhere, no one
will oppose him.
MAN IN PRISON
CONFESSES KILLING
AT BENNINGTON
WATER PRESSURE
MUCH INCREASED
KY NEW MAINS
Ttt Taken ia North End Stoneihed
.elt Show Good Results Following
Recent Changes in Pipe.
Table recording the outcome of test
mad on the recently completed water
main extension in the vicinity of Willey
street thi week have been prepared by
the water department. The figure show
a surprising recovery of static pressure
and discharge from the reulu obtained
last April when lUistoii engineers gv
the main a try-out in that congested
stoiieshcd section before the extension
were added.
On the hvdrant near the Hoy t 4 I-eh-
ourveau plant, the following reading
were made t hid week: l-avoiit, ttiree Wi-
font lines of two and one half inch C. R.
I hose with nozzle two feet and one
inch and one foot and one snd one-eighth
inches long; static pressure, 100 pound;
residual pressure. 5 pound; nozzle pres
sure, one foot, 47 pound; one foot, 47
pounds; one foot and one-eighth inch, 50
pounds; discharge, Hti.r gallons per min
ute. In a test made liefore the exten
sion were made, the following figure
were obtained and are now used for com
parinon: Ijiv-out, two SO-foot line of
two and one-half inch C. It. L. hose with
one and one-eighth inch and one and one
fourth inch nozzles; ststic pressure, .
pounds; residual pressure, 39 pound
nozzle pressures, one and nne-eightb inch.
lit pounds; one and onelourtli inch, 13
pounds; discliarge, 320 gallons per nun
ute.
On the new hvdrant In front of the
lYesbrev-Covkendall Co.'s plant, the
readings were as follows this week: Lay.
out, three M foot lines of two and one
half inch C. R. L, hose with two foot
one inch nozzles, and one foot and one
and one-eighth inch nozzles static pres
sure. 10l pounds; residual pressure,
pounds; no.zle pressures, one foot nozzle,
flfl pounds; one foot and one inch nozzle,
55 rounds; one foot and one-eighth inch
nozzle, 65 pounds; discharge, 72 gallons
per minute.
CEASE WORK
WEDNESDAY
Is the Call of Labor Leaders
to 000,000 Workers
in New York
OUT OF SYMPATHY
FOR THE CAR MEN
Unanimous Vote of SO Un
ions for a General
Suspension ,
STUDENT GUARDSMEN
ARE MUSTERED OUT
Mr. and Mrs. Ichabod Niles of Rutland
Observed Aniversary.
Rutland, Sept. 23. Mr. and Mrs. Icha
bod Niles of this city have been married
60 years yesterday. Because of their ad
vanced age, both being 85, no big celebra
tion was planned, but the family invited
neighbors and intimate friends to the
house to congratulate the couple, who
have pased together such a long period of
wedded ilfe. Mr. Niles is a Vermonter,
and Mrs. Niles is a Canadian by birth.
They have survived allbut two of their
five children, one of those living being
Mrs. Edward Manning of this city. Mr.
Niles is a veteran of the Civil war. He is
able to take sole care of the family gar
den. Mrs. Niles doea nearly all of her
housework.
MANNHEIM ATTACKED.
French Aviator Flew Far Beyond Cer
tain Border.
Paris, Sept. 23. Flying nearly Iff!
miles beyond tha German border. Flight
Warrant Officer Baron last night bom
barded important works at Ludwigshaf
en on the Rhine and Mannheim, acre
the river. An official report to-day says
the bombardment caused large fire and
several explosions at Mannheim.
BOMBARDED AERODROMES.
British Karal Aeroplanes Had Snccesa in
Belgium.
London, Sept. 23. British naval aero
plane have, successfully bombarded the
Germaa aerodrome at several point in
Belgian, th admiralty announced today.
Francis Ketcham, 21, Makes Statement
That He ShotWilliam Costello Last
' Saturday Night He Was
Arrested for Horse
Stealing.
Bennington,, Sept. 23 Francis Ketch
am, 21, years old, of this village, who
Is serving 90 days at Salem, N. Y., for
stealing a horse and buggy, confessed
yesterday to the murder of William
Costello, 34, whose body was found Sat
urday night near the Vermont soldiers
home. Ihe confession was obtained by
Judge E. C. Bennett, village attorney.
Deputy Sheriffs John Nash and Richard
Foley.
The Salem authorities after the ar
rest of Ketcham communicated with
Bennington officers. In the telephone
conversation it was mentioned that he
had a revolver. This led the authorities
here to believe that possibly he might
have had something to do with the
shooting of Costello. The officer's went
to Salem yesterday afternoon, 20 miles
from here, and after hours of hammering
at Ketcham succeeded in procuring his
admission, the man breaking down.
Ketcham' story was to the effect that
he had been in the village the Saturday
night Costello was shot, visiting the sal
oons. He met Costello, he said, who
was posted and unable to secure liquor.
Ketcham told the officers that he had
a pint bottle, but refused to give tos-
tello anv, thst thereupon a quarrel en
sued, ending by the men agreeing to go
to the lonelv spot near the soldiers' home
and fight it out. There Ketcham got the
worst of it. and then drew his revolver.
Coming to the village he met Raymond
Elwell with whom he drove Into the
east road district. On tha way Elwell
stopped to go into a house and Ketch
am drove on into New York state,
abandoning the buggy in Salem and tak
ing another. It was for the second theft
that he was apprehended.
It i expected that Ketchm will serve
his 60 day at Salem and then be
brought here, to await trial of the De-
Company C, First Vermont Infantry, Dis
banded and Boys Scattered
to Their Home.
Burlington. Sept. 23.The 71 students,
former members of (' company and of Un
attached sanitary troops of the Vermont
National Guardwho arrived Wednesday
morning at Fort Ethan Allen from h'agle
ass, Texas, were discharged yesterday
afternoon from the federsl service, most
them leaving immediately for their
tomes, the guardsmen received tneir
ederal pav of Sl" per month for August
and 21 days of September, and most of
them also received several dollars addi-
ional, the unexpended portion of their
clothing allowance, which is 31 cents per
dav. The student guardsmen have not
yet received any of the stste pay which
he special session of the legislature vol
d thorn. Whether or not the state must
furnish them transportation from Krt
Ethan Allen to their homes is also a
mooted question. Transportation from
their home stations to the mobilization'
cHmp was furnished the companies, as
they were not then in the federal service, j
The balance of the Vermont troops
who have been at the border are expected
Monday night or Tuesday morning, as
the trip can hardly be made under five
days' time. The plans of the Militia Re
lief association to extend a banquet to M
and C companies and to provide an ade
quate welcome to the entire regiment
have not vet assumed definite shape, al
though the members of th? committee
having the matter in charge are hard at
work. Nearly all of the guardsmen who
were discharged jvsterday w ill return on
Wednesday to Jurlington to resume
their studies at the University of Ver
mont. A large number of queries have been
received as to whether the militiamen
when discharged from the federal service
would revert back to their status as state
militiamen, prior to their taking the fed
eral oath, but it appears that with their
discharge from the federal service, they
are free from further duty as either
federal or state militiamen, unless they
re-enlist. Report fe current that the
balance of the Vermont .roups will not
be discharged, but will merely be fur
loughed to the reserve list. v. l.i"h would
cave them subject ' to call for the re
mainder of their enlistment term.
PLAINTIFF ON STAND
In Suit of Nellie H. Morse vs. Fred A.
Jewett in County Court.
The plaintiff in the case of Nellie H.
Morse, executrix, vs. Fred A. Jewett,
which was started yesterday afternoon
n county court, took the witness stand
this morning and testified to her part in
the transaction by which it is claimed
the defendant owed a sum to the Morse
estate.
The jury hearing the case is made up
as follows: Guy.M. Hale of East Mont
pelier, Howard Curtis of Worcester, Neal
Tassie of Woodbury. George Cooper of
Barre Citv, George H. Emery of Barre
City, C. F. Spaulding of Calais, E. A.
l.mphere of Calais, Robert Whelan of
Montpelier, John A. Foss i,f riainrield.
.1. P. Hntton of Cabot and Alva New-hall
of Middlesex.
54 CASES LISTED.
For Trial Calendar of October Term of
Supreme Court.
The trial calendar for t he October term
of supreme court, which opens in Mont
pelier a week from Tuesday, has been
issued by Clerk I C. Moody and con
tains a list of 54 ca.es, one of the biggest
calendars arranged for the court in a
number of terms. There are only three
Washington county cases as follows:
State vs. Valerie Bergonzi, selling liquor;
Boston & Maine railroad vs. Cnion Mil-
New York, Sept. 23. Organized work
er in virtually every industry in Great
er New Vrk were called on yesterday
to cease work at S o'clock Wednesday
morning in sympathy with striking trac
tion employe. Labor leader assert that
approximately tKK),(M)0 men and women
are involved.
Delegates to the Central Federated un
ion, representing 12S,0K) worker in al
lied trades, voted unanimously last night
to ratify the strike. Thi action fol
lowed a similar step taken several days
ago by representatives of 200,000 mem
bers of the I'nited Hebrew trades.
Among the trades represented at the
meeting were bakers, milk wagon driv
ers, and several branches of the garment
industry. It was announced that the
cutter in the women's tailoring trade
hav, authorized their officer to call
them out. Thi will men, it is said,
that 00,000 dressmakers and women'
tailors will be unable to work because
of the lack of cutters. Many women
from the garment industries were pres
ent and took part in the speeches and
in the vote.
The csll for the general strike was
embodied in resolutions adopted at a
conference of labor leaders representing
the federal bodies in all the boroughs
of the city as well as many national
and international unions. Of the HO un
ions in the city represented, it was said
some already have voted for a strike.
Th call, it was said, would be issued
not only to organized workers in New
York, but also to those in Westchester
count v, in which the cities of lonkers.
New Roehelle and Mount Vernon are
situated, and would extend throughout
wide range of industries.
Hugh Fravne, New York state orgsn-
ir.er of the American Federation of La
bor, announced the determination to call
the sympathetic walkout in the follow
ing statement:
It was decided bv unanimous vote of
representatives of 80 unions of Greater
New York and vicinitv that there shall
be a general suspension of all work in
all trades and industries in Greater New-
York and vicinity, the same to com
mence vverlnesiiav, Sept. it, at 8 a. m.
The call is based on the ground that
. . ... .... ,r
union men cannot maintain ineir sen
respect' if thev ride on cars operated
by strike breakers, according to Ernest
Bohm, secretary of the Central Feder
ated union. In cases where contracts
exist, Bohm said, the employers will be
notified that the workers have no means
of transportation, and if the employers
cannot provide transportation the work
ers must remain at their homes.
"Union employes will not rUk their
lives by riding on ears operated by green
motormen and protected by policemen,"
Mr. Bohm said. "Neither can they ride
on such cars and retain their self respect
as union men.
"The general tie-up will come because
employers of union labor will not pro
vide their employes with means of trans
portation to and from work to enable
them to stay off the dangerous strike
breaking cars of the several traction
lines.
Theodore Shonts, president of the In
terborough Rapid Transit company and
the New York Railways company, re
iterated his determination not to meet
representatives of the striking carmen
'If I did so the loyal men in tne in
borough brotherhood would have good
cause to strike," he said. "Besides, there
is no reason for nesotiations. There is
no strike! We are carrying more peo
pie in the subway, on the elevated and
in the Steinway tubes than ever before
Yesterday we carried 2,208,257 passen
gers, or 387,fi39 more than on the same
day last year. The service on surface
car lines is 70.5 per cent normal."
Four indictments yesterday arising
out of the violence which has marked
the traction strike will, it was indicated
by the district attorney's office, be nulli
tied because each member of the indict
ing grand jury had received from the
office of the Interborough a document
eoiitaininc affidavits "in the matter of
crimes committed and now threatened to
be committed" by strikers and sympa
thizers.
PAGE IN HOSPITAL
tual Fire Insurance Co.; State vs. Mary
Monti, keeping.
But Senator Wants His Friends to Enow
He Is Not Very Sick.
Rutland, Sept. 23.--United States Sen
ator Carroll S. Page, who on Sept. 12 won
another nomination at the hands of the
Republican Prty, i a patient at the
Rutland hospital. His physician, Dr. W
W. Townsend of Rutland, report that
the patient has no organic trouble and
that he will hotter enjoy nis prospective
outing at Atlantic City, N. J., by reason
of taking a short rest in the Rutland institution.
Senator Page weigh 178 and est three
square meats a aay, so ne wisties nis
friends to know that he is not a very
sick man.
NEW GRANITE C0NCER0N.
An orchestra of 12 pieces which is fur
nishing accompaniments for the film
spectaele, "Kamna." at the Par re opera
house, mi'.l complete its engagement with
the film pecpl" to-nicht mzA the doen
musicians will leave tor irk
cember term of Bennington county court, they are to join a roaJ show.
McGovera Granite Co. Has Capital Stock
of $50,000.
Article of association ware filed to
dav with the aeeretary of state by the
McGovern Granite Co, Inc., of Barre,
w ith capital stock of foO.OuO divided into
,VKi share. The incorporators are Daniel
.?. Have of Montpelier. Robert Mrlkit-
here ern of HrtforJ. Conn., Frank and Cirillo
Brocgini of Barre.
SCHOOL CHILDREN'S EXHIBIT.
Good Display of Their Handiwork Shown
at Church Street School,
Thumb nail impression of the county
fair, the industrial art exhibition in
miniature ami a tabloid of the home eco
nomica duplay and food fair are agree
blv brooch t together In tho school iliil
dren'a exhibit under wy in the Church
street building. Johnnie ami George and
Robert, with their tine showing of me
chanical and decorative drawing, rarpen
tering that is far from amateurish, gar
dening and poultry breeding are having
the half of the show all to themselve u
far a the glory ge, while pretty much
all of the rest of the exhibit wherever
premium is placed on capability I divid
ed aiuomr Mary. Katie and l'hvlli. I'eo
pie began to rrowd the exhibition nans
last evenii.g when the door swung open
at 7:30 dock and it looked tin morn
ing though the young hopeful would
occupy the center of the stage to-day, as
the exhibition, owning again at 0 o'clock,
will not close until late in the afternoon.
Folk say of the affair that it is big
ucces. I her are a long way irom ne-
lnr even half wrong. Measured by the
attendance, it i a moving success, but he
who judge of the exhibit merely by the
crowd it attracts ha nusserl the kernel.
It real virtue lie in the fact that in
terest among the children has been so
... . I ,1... A ... -
stirrcil up and tnen maintained mm mo
gible proof of the exhibit's practical
aspect is everywhere at hand. Mary,
Katie and Phyllis, with their baking,
hrewinir and mending, ami .lonnnie,
(ieorge and Robert, with a seemingly un
ending display of their handiwork, are
having their innings and enjoying them,
too. Foremost among those who are
sponsoring work of this kind among the
school children of the city are the mem
ber of the Woman's club and they are
ablv seconded by the teachers in the city
schools. Then, too, persons oiusmi? 01
both spheres have become inoculated with
the spirit of the work and they have co-
operat-d to tne extent 01 tneir amm;.
Four spacious schoolrooms are reserved
for the exhibits and all are well filled
On the ground floor one room is given
over almost wholly to the poultry ex
hibitors and on the same floor is a room
where the vegetable and flower exhibit
are arranged. Upstairs the drawing de
partment, the boy scouts and the mem-
1ers of the canning club have a room,
Elsewhere cooking, canning, candy, sew
ing, embroidery, tatting and crocheting
r shown. Last nicht the judges com-
oleteH their examination of all but the
poultry, vegetable and canning depart
ments," and the work was continued this
forenoon. Almost anv corner of an ex
hibit room resembles a whole section in
the familiar floral hall at the county fair
and the exhibition as a whole has that
well known adjunct of the countryside
show place standing several leagues in
the background. Kvery specimen is la
beled and at. the height of the exhibition
the name of every prize winner will be
attached.
This forenoon at 10 o'clock the work
of distributing the prizes began and,
needless to say, there wa an eager
crowd of young people on hand to re
ceive the awards. Supt. C. H. White of
the public schools, assisted by a number
of thfliigh school teachers, was in charge
nf the distribution. Members of the
Woman's club were assigned to the dif
ferent rooms to explain the exhibits to
visitors. A small admission fee is charged
and the proceeds are to go toward fur
thering the work so well begun.
Mention should be made of the splen
did showing made by the boy scouts as
well as the campfire girls and the North
Barre clubs. All have taken a deep in
terest in the success of the exhibit and
their contributions have figured mightily
in the pleasing appearance of the display
rooms. Mrs. James Gow and Mrs. L. R.
Rickert were the judges in the sewing
department, Mrs. C. N. Benedict and Mrs.
Mason Tage in the cooking department,
Miss Marv Carleton in the bird competi
tion. D. Wendell Smith in the earning
club, Charles Tamper! in the drawing
department: F. II. Abbott and james
Lovie, vegetable department; E. M. Lyon
and W. H. Olliver, poultry department.
Awards were made in the sewing de
partment on specimens as follows: Girls
from 5 to 8 rears old, Olga Zampicri 1st,
Mary Halsail 2d, .Dorothy Slayton 3d;
al. Marion Keast: 8 to 10, Alice
Bradford 1st, Gena Tosi 2d, Cecile Pal
ment 3: 10 to 13 years, Mabel Cheever
1st, Bella McDonald 2d, Mary Rossi 3d.
Aprons: 5 to 8 years, tiara iToteau
1st, Olga Zampicri 2d, Eleanor Donnella
3d; 8 to 10 rears. Hazel Penn 1st, Mar
traret Clark "2d; 10 to 13 years, Mary
Rossi 1st. Irene Stacy 2d
Garments: Adelina Romasi 1st, Maria
Bighina 2d, Margharita Catto 3d; special,
Vittorina Cecchini.
Sewing bags: Helen Rossi nt, Cather
ine McKerron 2d, Eva Croteau 3d.
Dolls: North Barre school 1st, Mathew-
son school 2d, Brook street. 3d.
Dresses: Alice Philips 1st, htliel Wood
ruff 2d.
Aprons; Eloise Ballard 1st, Dorothy
Shaw 2d. Katherine Bruya 3d.
Embroidery: Elizabeth White 1st.
Towels: Lillian Stevens 1st, Mary L.
Andrus 2d, Frances Spear 3d.
Centerpieces and towels: Laura .Mur
phy 1st, Delores Carroll 2d, Mildred Beat-
tie special.
Pillow cases: lerle Douglas 1st, KUtn
Davis 2d, Laura Murphy 3d.
Sofa pillows: Angela Danzero 1st,
Freda Beck 2d, Mary Stephens 3d.
Specials: Collar, Gladys Noonan; ki
mono. INatane .Mc.Manon; apron, lifinrrs
Carroll; crochet. Helen Roscoe.
Canned fruit, bread, jellies, cakes, vege
tables, candy, bread and rolls: Margaret
Walker; cake, Margaret Walker 1st, hva
Shaw 2d. Rhods Booth 3d: candy, Bea- j
trice Mower; canned cherries. Elizabeth
White 1st, Fred Beck 2d: canned field
strawberries, Elizabeth Wliite; canned
raspberries, Leone Reynolds 1st. Mary
U Andrus 2d. Gretchen Lieouri 3d, Eliz
abeth White 4th; jellies, Gweneth Ladd
1st. Tauline Beck 2d. Kuth yllie 3d;
string beans. Loretta Stevens 1st, Gretch
en Ligonri 2d, Elizabeth White 3d: peas.
Elizabeth White; tomatoes. elma t amp-
MAY BE LOST
IN BIG V OODS
Mr. and Mrs -scph A. Den
nison of T .on Cause of
Alarm 2 ixville Notch
HAVE BEEN MISSING
SINCE WEDNESDAY
Searching Parties Are Out,
Fearing They Can
not Subsist
Dixville Notch, X. H., Sept. 23. Jo-
scph A. Dennison of Boston, former as
sistant district attorney of Suffolk coun
ty, anil his wife, who nave been missing
since Wednesday when they started on a
walk through the to-called big woods
near here, were the objects of continued
search to-day. The hunt waa prosecuted
through the night by men with torches
but without developing trace of the miss
ing couple. '
Mr. and Mr. Dennison have been here
for 10 day and both apparently were in
the best of health but those familiar
with the woods, which afford little or
no aid to human subsistence, express
fears for the safety of the two. Daniel
It. loaklev, a Boston attorney, and
brother of Mrs. Dennison, Is expected to
day to take charge of the search.
A MEMORABLE EVENT.
For
City
the Odd Ladies of Granite
Lodge snd Their Guests.
The regular meeting of Granite City
lodge of the I. O. O. L., M. U., was held
last evening in K. of C. hall, Noble
Grand Christina Walker presiding. Pro
vincial Grand Lady Maria McDerniott
of the Massachusetts ub-district was
present and exemplified the initiatory
work on a claas of six candidates, as-'
sisted by the degree team in the banner
work of the order.
After the regular business was fin
ished, the purple lecture was exemplified
by the past noble grands of the order,
with the provincial grand lady presid
ing. The degree, which is the highest
the order can confer, and which can only
be taken by the P. N. G.s of the or
der, was conferred on five ladies. The
purple consulate was then instituted and
the following officers were installed for
same: Premier consul, baraa .Lake;
noble consul, Eva Gamble; vice-consul,
Nellie Bianchii scribe, Grace Ducharme;
purser, Ina Morrison; prelate, Mary
Rhind; warden, Eleanor Faulkner; con
ductor, Maggie Stephen; sentinel, Hel
en Stephen.
A few encouraging words were given
bv the provincial grand lady, who stated
that Granite City lodge, Barre, and Vic
tor lodge, Graniteville, performed their
duties and exemplified their work in a
very able manner. A few uran-
tions were made by the grand lady and
some advice where and when to improve
was very much appreciated by the la
dies. All regular and important busi
ness finished, a bountiful repast was
served by the amusement committee,
which were as follows: Chairman, Nel-
Bianchi. Alice Gilbertson, Hannah
Talmer, Margaret Carle, Helen Stephen,
Maria Watt, Josephine Rizzi, Linda
Craig, Gladys Comolli, assisted by a few
other ladies of the order.
The tables were beautifully decorated
with flowers. Purple, pink and white, tha
official colors of the order, adorned the
table where were seated provincial grand
lady and the purple officers, while va
rious colors beautified the other tables.
Twelve ladies from Victor lodge, Gran
iteville, were present, including District
Deputy Etta Barton. About 120 covers
were laid and much credit is due the
committee in charge for the able manner
in which they catered to the guests.
The hall was then cleared lor dancing
and other enjoyments. The younger peo
ple seemed to derive, much enjoyment
from chorus singing and much excellent
talent was discovered amongst the sing
ers. The ladirs considered it one of the
most enjoyable times the Odd Ladies
hav had.
It came to a close, as all good things
must, and with many good wishes and
goodbyes all round and hoping to meet
the provincial grand lady soon again, tho
company parted at a late hour.
CLAIM FOR BEER UPHELD.
bell 1st. Rachel Spear 2d, Ruth Powers
3d; carrots. Katherine Martin; rhubarb,
Mary Stevens.
Earning club: Reginald Kendall 1st
ith $48.34, James Hrechin 2d with
$30.18. Paul Gregware 3d with U2I.PS.
Bird club: Class A. Hazel Gauthier 1st.
Marjorie Love special; class B, Gretchen
Ligouri 1st. A via I .aw re nee Z.
Flower club: Madeline Koss 1st witn
164 specimens, Ida Ralph 2d with l.W
specimen. May Ralph 3d with 12 speci
mens, Madeline lhivharme 4th with !"
Court Gives 54 Bottles to Luigi Cerutl,
Once a Boarder at Mrs. Albano's.
Fifty-four bottles of beer seized on the
Mrs. Selina Albano, who had
previously been sentenced to the house of
correction for selling a part of the same
brew, were ordered returned to Luigi Ce
ruti, after a hearing before Magistrate
H. W. Scott in city court Friday after
noon. Testimony by Ceruti, Mrs. Harry
Mason and Mrs. Albano aided in bringing
about this curious situation, as it was
claimed by E. R. Davis, counsel for the
defense, that the beer belonged to Ceruti,
even though Mrs. Albano had violated
i, lau- in hsnrllinir it. Ceruti, it may be
r as the man shot in the elbow
and face by Mrs. Albano's husband last
Julr, and later he became the defendant
in a $10,000 alienation suit. Ceniti'a
successful bid for the beer was based on
his claim that he wa once a boarder at
Mr. Albano's house and that he intended
to return for the brew some day.
I'pon the representation of the defense.
that Mrs. Albano might te aoie to pay a
fine, the forenoon sentence of from four
fo seven months in the Rutland institu
tion was strikn off by the judge, and
the case against the woman continued.
It was agreed that she is to escape a
prison sentence if she can raise a $30X
fine and py the costs. Mrs. Albano is
evpeeting to hear from her son in California.
pecimens.
fummer art club:
Drawing. Ixuis Pir-
(Continued on eighth psg ).
Mrs. Nellie Bianchi, who is in chsrge
of the culinary deprtment at the City
hoM.iial. has returned from a vacation
visit of two week, in the course of which
-he attended the wedding of her s.ter ia
4j4icj, Mas.
