,
n
NIGHT
EXTRA
iVvTRA4
VOL. 3H.-NO. 33
4
c
ffiefrger
NIG
EXTRA
TEUTON TROOPS
WINVICTORYON
; DOBRUD JA LINE
Capture 3000 Russians and
h Hundreds or Rumanians,
11 ueriiu auyo
ANCO- SERBS ADVANCE
. h
iSwcep Forward in unvo on
Monnstir, Fnns.JKeport
Asserts '
PnrLAD33LrHIA, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1010
Coring rr. Ills, it tin resuo Lmn Courtst
PRICE ONJB OJBUTT
PRIEST BLESSES ARMENIAN RELIEF COLLECTION BOXES
mm oToV 11 . lalnAN'i
ftf UEKiarS "CI. 1. iiimiio
armies have forced the Rusao-Humnhiim
line in Dobrudja at several points in the
great battle that marked the resump
tion of the Dobrudja offensive, it was
efficlslly announced this afternoon.
The enemy's main positions on the
Tuita heights, northwest of Topralscr,
Berth of Kocarjsea and northwest of
Moldova have been taken. Threo thou
sand Russian," hundreds of Rumanians
and twenty-three machine guns have
keen captured.
rl Under terrific blows by Field Mar-
i htl Mackcnsen'a Germnn-Bulsar-Turk-f
Wi army tho Russians and Rumanians
s Jn Dobrudja havo been driven back nt
ieveral places.
r,i Tho German Wot Office this after-
announced that the enemy's lines
nve been forced, tho positions of tho
!1.mh tmnn.tnnf t,ntfVlta ttlVfin nnil
UJ VII IIIIIU1,UUV llblUMl wnim ...it.
Russian and several hundred Ru-
rvjeeman prisoners capiurcu. ino nus-
,Un War Ofllco admitted reverses, in
F'elHding the loss of n village- to tho Ger-
iliBns, ana retrouruu uisiiuitiivs tuiu-
Bni(d nn tbn violence of tho cnemv's
B .
tw onensivc.
Transylvania, wnero tno iiu-
inanians are on the counter-offensive,
H't&e German Wnr Office claimed suc-
E . . . . .. i
cesses in mountain ngnung ana ae-
ared that tho Rumanian losses have
en severe.
,Mackensen's new offensive, ft is con-
faWered certain here, was ordered to
ng about tho withdrawal of Ru-
anian troops from the Transylvania
front, where the Rumanians continue
rigorously on tho offensive.
(-Supported by tho French, the Serbs
Llave mado a further advance in the
(kittle southeast of Monastir, tho
rJ'rench "War Office announced today,
though the Bulgarians refuse to con-
ft tede defeat, but admit fierce Serbian
' attacks. Tho Allies havo advanced
ft sorth of Vclik, reaching tho village of
(8kirk Baldck, it was officially announced
"at Paris.
PETRoapAD, Oct 21,
A great battle Is raging all along the
' JDobrudJa front, where Mackensen has taken
ttfee offensive against the Russo-Rumanlans
KM an effort to halt, the Rumanian counter
rwRenslve In Transylvania,
. , Attacking In the region of Kobardja, the
German-Bulgarian troops yesterday morn
Itb occupied the village and continued their
r. attacks throughout the day. The enemy's
i .attempts to make further advances were re
pulsed with rifles and grenades.
H South of Doma Vatra, near the Ruma
, tlan frontier, Austro-Oerman attacks were
,jpeuea and the enemy put to flight, tho
Russians capturing a machine gun, a trench
Gannon and-a numher rtt nrlannerii.
i Fighting all along the eastern front has
rwulted victoriously for the Slavs. In the
K .Ulianovsk aettlements north of Klslelln
an artillery battle Is raging. In the region
re Jaroslavlca, northeast of Tarnopol
; Wcoxof Hallway, a Russian detachment
penetrated n TAlltrttilrt trSnph n nlvht
, n Bayonetlne those who restated, and return-
lag with prisoners.
y Near Konlukhl the Russians surprised
and CSntured thrAA nmv tvinta AI TlnrnAV
farm, along the Hurluvka, an enemy attack
rf repelled, A heavy snowfall continues
. o hinder operations In the Carpathians.
PARIS, Oct, II.
The Serbs have pushed nearer to Mon-
i flr In their new offensive, It was officially
aqpounced today, making- further progress
an. tye bend of the Cerna River. North of
Vellk the Allies have reached Bklrk Baldek.
The most violent artillery action Is going
the Allies' right wing.
ATHENS. Oct. II.
Desperate fighting continues southeast
Uonastir, the Serbs, supported by the
Vrench, attacking on the whole front
The Serbian advance across the Cerna
a menaced the strong Bulgarian positions
at Kenall, barring the way to Mdflastlr.
te Serbs are new advancing against
alt from both south and east.
SALONICA. Oct. 21.
Tenty.flve itheuaand men have been re
nted by the Greek revolutionary govern-
Ceattaaed en Paso. Wbt. Celuma Twp
'' THE WEATgER
FORECAST
for PMUMphia and vbinilyFair
hP mUUt tonight, with h$avy Jrett;
""ey jmtr an f; montraie wtMt
UtNiRx er by
an? "m
Dl
; CHMTMUT BTftaTT
'ssssssssHsssRssssssSssssskyl-lssssssssssssssssT
ssssR55k?.sssssssPssssssssR'lsWsl3sP'V'"v sssHVBP-fsiiHisssssVsssssssI
ssP'PVfjr7X3ssssOssssssssBt GH T H
f BTejtL Jp jKzssrTVssssssv'i Jt JP"sa""ssssssssr' sssssssssssL isssssss!
JMP,asPisssssHsssikJlsW (.ilssBs&. vV9sssr dHiissssssssBSr' 'flLisssM Fsssssssssll
I NISsssssssssssPlllsssssssssW "sf r jssssk "ssssmVCBSsssT !L-' HV Jssssssssssssssl
" . lBssKB SSsE! BSSSSSBU'Im BSK yBSSSSSSB BSSHSP 1
BBi B B "Hiuhii, - SSSSSSBP? SlTf i I 1 V BSSSlSBL V 4
ssssssssssssssHKM I BssW 1bsss0K. '-fl bssssssH JsJsskBpni ,1
DsssssssssnsssssssssssssssVt asssssssssW & Jbsssssbl aP V assssssssl hs V'aB p
BSSSSSSSSBlSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSl BSSSSSSSV jASSSSSSSSSa k SB BBBBBBBBSl IB V V
sssssssssaasssssssssssssssL sssssssssV iisssssE I Br a bssssB 1 V a sa
BBBBBBBBBB BBBBBBBBBBBBBBbI SBBBBBbV vjBBBBBBBBBBBBBBk SBK St SBBBBBBSV ttW ?
sssssssVsssssssssssB issssssT essssssssssssssraV' I -t 94 i?,ii
sssssH IbsbbbbbbWI IssssssT sssssnsssssssKjr11 AM 1 asssssssi 1 "l aajjaf
sssssssf IssssssssssRi lJesssssf SBssss ai I bssH hiv 4
sssssssf ssssssssHF ClassssT asssNslssBlI II Bssssssl i 1 '-
i VBasssssssssssH sBssssssssssssssssssssssssksssssHsssssssskrK flssssH. r '1
WVlssssssssssssf fssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss" JsssR tJ -A.
Sssssssssssssssssssl ttERfassPV"r',lv iaBsssssasJsJr- - 'bbbbbbI
asssssssssssssssssss HfciBtssaNiCIU. tj w, "masssssssBf t' sssssL ...
sssssssssssssssssssssssM "rggfWiWS !i ,. , .wTjSssBBMssl'i.v asssssssssssssf
tssssssssssssssssssssssssW. asssssris: V " CssssPlsPssssssssssssl r5J
ssssssHBsssssssssP'NHsstty MMlSalssssssssssl''
'"""'"""''"'",,,,'',, sa"aHsK iv A ..&. -t- . ,. .a., aawBUk - JL .gnPBhWHsTsHsBslHBBWP'rlasra , ,iaaJ
Tho Rev n, Vardanlan Is shown bestow
ing a benediction on the group of collectors.
Philadelphia contributed generously today
to the boxes In which hundreds of Armenian
girls and boja received help for their coun
trymen suffering under Turkish oppression.
Tho collectors, with a white sash slung over
their shoulder, were on the Job at nearly
every crossing In the business district before
o'clock this morning The collection Is
being taken up throughout the country In
response to President Wilson's proclamation
calling for special donations for Armenians
and Syrians today and tomorrow The
amount needed la $300,000, Mth which food
and clothing will be purchased and sont to
Turkey on an American war essel. The
Philadelphia committee for Armenian relief,
headed hy Rlshop Rhlnelander, the Rev Dr.
William II, Roberts, tho Rev Dr. A J
Ron land, the Rev. Dr. Robert Ilagnell, the
Rev, Dr Charles li SchaerTer, and the
Rev Dr IMwIn Heyl Delk, Is collecting
funds, which will be forwnred to the na
tional committee In New York Asa H.
Wing, president of the Tnnldent I.lfo and
Trust Company, 409 Chestnut street. Is the
treasurer.
ARMENIANS, PRAYERS
ON THEIR LIPS, PLEAD
AID FOR OUTRAGED KIN
Two-Day Appeal Made for Con
tributions to Relieve Suffer
ing Caused by Turkish
Atrocities - '
HUNDREDS IN CAMPAIGN
"I LOVE NO ONE TOO
PROUD TO FIGHT," SAYS
ROOSEVELT OF WILSON
"You Fool ; Go Home and Sober
Up," Colonel Tells Rail-
road Heckler at
Gallup, N. M.
'
Hundreds of Armenians men, women
and children assembled In Independence
Square this morning and prayed that Phila
delphia would respond to the two-day appeal
for funds to help their stricken countrymen.
It was a moving picture as, clustered
around Father Vartan Vartanl, the Grego
rian priest, they chonted the supplications
In their native tongue. Business men and
women, on their way Jo their offices, halted
when they saw the old man, with the patrl
aichal face, dressed In the crimson miter
and ceremonial vestments of his Church,
bow his head In prayer. Their hands In
stinctively sought their pocketbooks at tho
sight of tho weeping Armenians, many of
whom Jiad relathea victims of recent Turk
ish massacers.
After tho invocation the gathering broke
up and the supplicants took their places on
the street corners. Some of them were
assigned to seek collections In the office
buildings, restaurants and clubs.
The pall of horror that haa fallen over
their land has stamped Itself on the coun
tenances of these people.
rVo dare not think about It," said Dr
Lucy E. Quleilan. a graduate of Temple
Unherslty, a woman of remarkable Ori
ental beauty. Her brown eyes welled with
tears. "It Is enough to set us craxy. My
father and two brothers were massacred by
the Turks In 1855. At the beginning of
this war I had two lovely alsters In Ar
menia. I have not heard a word from
them. f
"Tho Turks dcende(J on the Armenians
Continued n I'sse KUbt, Column One
HURRAH FOR HUGH-E-S"
By J. P. YODER
PHOENIX. Aria, Oct. 21. It was hard
for Colonel Roosevelt to remember what
he came out here for today. Ho made a
2100-mile jump from taulavllle with only
a few atops In between to utter his mast
bitter1 denunciation of President Wilson's
Mexican, policy and urged election of Charles
Evans Hughes. Rut where er he turned he
fouiJI old scenes and acquaintances that
tended to take his mind off his Job.
There were the usual bands and daylight
bombs to greet the colonel. He lunched
at Heard's house with Jack C3reenway.nnd
then spoke at 2:30 this afternoon. The
colonel was to be the guest of honor at a
dinner at the Heard home tonight, when
several friends of ranching days were ex
pected.' It remained for Gallup, N. M., where
Roosevelt raised half of his rough riders,
to furnish the real thrills. Nearly nil of
the town of 1000 crowded about to sea him.
He had not atarted speaking when noisy
heckling began.
"HOW ABOUT WILSON?"
"How's Teddy, but Wilson for me,"
shouted a railroad man,
Roosevelt attempted again and again to
start speaking, but others took up the cry:
"How about Wilson; I'll bet you love
him."
"I love no one too proud to fight," re
torted Hooseeltr "
"We've all, got g9od Jobs, why should we
change?" was shouted,
"Yes, but you forgot the thousands out
Continued on !( Klstit, Column Threo
COPS READY FOR BIG
POLICE CARNIVAL AT
PinLLIES' BALL PARK
All Sorts of Races and Field
Events Scheduled for An
nual Affair This
Afternoon
HORSE SHOW AND DRILL
A phototmpli llloilrntlnc the ntnry will bo
found on tho pictorial psco.1
The annual athletic carnival of the Tollce
Department, "bigger and better than ever,"
will be ntaged this afternoon at the Phillies'
Ball Park, Broad and Huntingdon streets.
A new departure will be seen this after
noon when the cnrnlval starts at 1:30, In
that the tests of physical endurance and
drills, formerly taking two das, will be
run ofT In ono afternoon.
A larger attendance than usual Is ex
pected through the elimination of tho star
athletes In tho National Guard, not yet
mustered out. The guardsmen athletes
usually crossed the wire or nabbed the
prlxes In every event, so that their absence
Is secretly regarded as a good omen. by the
less proficient cops and the races are, vir
tually certain to be more closely contested.
STARS MAY BR ENTERED
There Is, however, a possibility that sev
eral of the star athletes may be entered. At
present It seems ns though It was a possf.
blllty and nothing else. Police headquar
ters were as unyielding In "dope" about
the entrance of Harry Fryckberg In the
carnival as they were about vice resorts.
Fryckberg, on past form, would be sure to
win many races.
The usual spectator will be provided for;
he can laugh himself to a flguratlvo death
at the race for fat cops, of ISO pounds
weight or more. Tho race will bo but 100
yards.l
A race, also for the same distance, will
Continued on !'( Tiro, Column Three
X "' t!.lkw xli?-??'
w.ier,, .:.aMHi-a voior.i pjwp.ik.
TXkWXMAVVlmm AT MAOH MMW
U
I 101
I M
IJI Ul
Ml Ml
l
utiapqpg
NEW DRIVER RUNS DOWN
ANDKHLS SKATING GIRL
ll-Year?01d Child, Playing With
Brother and Sister, Killed
in Street by Truck
EIe en-year-old Catherine Casjner, grand
daughter of Samuel Castner, Jr., of Castner,
Curran U Bullitt, Inc., coal dealers, was run
oer and killed by a Kunkel coal truck to
day while ahe was roller shaking with her
little brother and sister In Chancellor street
east of Fortieth.
Tie accident occured half a block from
her home, ?0 Walnut street, from which
ahe had skated ahortlybefore with her ale
ter and brotherBarbara, nine yeara old,
and Samuel, seven years old. The truck
was driven by David Roblnaon. 90 Say
brook avenue, an Inexperienced chauffeur,
who' wm belnt taught to operate the motor
truck by Charlea'Lona-.'B Cherry street.
The llttio gfrl was rushed to the Presby
terian Hospital In a paselrg.automeblle and
died in a few mlautea, She waa the daugh
ter. of "Samuel J.,Ct-. Jtefrapher,
at 1719 Chestnut sr,eet. ReMf-. who did
w t have a ehaueur'a license, waa arretted
6 BeMered LeatWith F&rB Barg
DSTROIT, Oet. l( ,r weeAree4e4
loot today in the Bderir 'a u
UUatmed barge, beloved to be the B, JL.
Uar, ofCWao. Bar Pe4t. at 'the
jait Wver eatf aa. k-
i. of the erew waa believed te
ETece4 by ha P. C. Ht.sa.aJ.fca
ZHun 8Ute A win ""
TWO SHOT IN QUARREL
OVER LOSS OF NICKEL
Man Shoots His Godfather and
i Is Himself Wounded by
Policeman
A quarrel over a loss of five cents In a
card' game resulted today In the shooting
and , seriously wounding of two men at
Thirty-second and Wharton streets,
John Caruto, thirty-two yeara old, 1400
South'Ettlng street, the police say shot his
godfather. Patsl Duluce, U41 South Orove
street. In both legs, and Caruto waa chased
and shot In the left arm and right leg by
Policeman Camac, ' of . tho Twentieth and
Federal streets station.
Camao waa leaning against a telegraph
pole at Thirty-second and Wharton streets
when heaya he heard Caruto quarreling
with Duluce across the street. Sofa
Cafonla, JJJJ South Drove street, waa try-.
ing toaetias mediator, policeman, camao
.says jhe , hiard Caruto accuae Duluce of
cheating him outiof Ave cents In a card
game. The 'bpiarrel waxed hot,' and finally,
Palleeman Camae aaya he saw Cat-uto draw
a pleto! and begin firing at his godfather's
lege, Dltwe eik to the pavement and
Caruto ran up Wharte street witfi, Pellae
man Camael aKor tym. Camae aalled for
Caruto to etsi,t and Then the latter did
)i, slacken hl speed, Camao fired three
shot,, twa, at tbeta taking efteet,
After,feavlff;'tfclr wends dreaisd at the
elyUtfci HespMal, Catuteyt aad Dulttoe
wee akHU the TfoMttsi and Federal
txAet aaalioa aad held, la Use eaak '
oattrt. '' okfa ' CaUsata ' waa fcaid l a Usstvj
MssjsjWMsW W A WilsraWpsaVr"
"POISON PEN" WRITERS
BUSY IN C0LLINGSW00D
Two Politicians Suspected of
Sending Letters to Wife of
Taxpayers' President
Two men, both widely known In politics
In Colllngswood, N J., are auspected of
being the aiithora of a aerlea of "poison
pen letters'' which have been mailed to
Mrs. W. II, Hay, wife of W II. Hay, presl
dent of tl'ie Taxpayers' league of Colllngs.
wood, which Is waging a fight against cer
tain candidates for pounclla. One of the
letters has threatened to burn the Hay
home unless the league and Its members
cease their campaign against candidates
who have the support of the Republican
machine of Colllngswood.
The letters, through, which the Identity of
theysuspected persons waa established, were
turned over to James f Oortelyou, Chief
Postal Inspector of Philadelphia, today, and
an investigation was ordered. Arresta of the
-writers of the letters. It waa reported today,
are lke,ly to be made shortly. ,t
Besides making threats fo burn the Hay
heme, one of the letters contains reflections
agajaWt the, character of Mr. Hay, under
wbeee . personal leadership the Taxpayers'
League S conducting Its political activities.
Lteyd Mliflln Suffers a Relapse
LAaJCASTBR, Pa., Oct. 21 Lloyd Mif
flin, the poet aad painter of Norwood, near
Columbia, this county, who hewed' a alight
Improvement laatalgM, lapsed Into semi
eoittotamnt" today, H attending pfeyel
eia. who held oat h4 atx-iier for the
MMt'e recovery, reported ttjat Mt. MUfllns
wis tovesa at-haa baas sloe
QUICK NEWS
TODAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES
PENN 0 3
PENN STATE....... Q Q
.
HARVARD O N y-
MASS.AGGIES O' ' f.
PRINCETON 7 9
LAFAYETTE O 6 .' .,-
i S
C.K.'.CUJS., O O -. -
PITTSBURGH , 7 Q ,t
FIRE EXTINGUISHER FOR FARMERS INVENTED
' WASHINGTON, Oct. 91. The invention of n fire extinguisher
for threshing machines ns n jircvention ngalnst explosions from crnin
tlust was todnynnnounccd by the Agricultural Department.
FRANCE EMPLOYS CHINESE IN ARMS PLANTS
1'AlUS, Oct. !J1. Finnic has begun to employ Chlncso hibor in
Urn muuttloiib fnutoiles. Five huudrctl Clilunmcu mil veil tuduy tu
work In the Cieuyut plnut, tho blggcht uibcuul In the Republic.
HUGE CROWD. B
OUT TO WITNESS
FOOTBALL FRAYk
Penn and State Clash in An-
nual Battle on Prank- ,
lin Field ,
ELEVEN IN GOOD SHAPE
More Enthusiasm Shown in Con
test Than Any Other in
Many Years
Today's Line-Up
TTrenhsrt .loft ed.
MaUiowo (rapt.)., left svard
Htrkman,,,,.. left intra
ikttror .renter ......
Rolilnaon ... .. rlcht vesrd . .
Llttio. . .. rlfhl teeklo ....
4sntt i ,. ,. onorlertMirk
trrr IM hirhrV
UlllUma rlsht hoirhork
llerrr follksek ..
Pern UU
, ,. , KrwVuMi
r.iiafT!oa
CtarnloMe
i ...... . .j-7
.........rife
KJk
I..'... Clark
Weterte l.lentonont O. . T. Thonpton,
t rolnl. 1 mplre O. J, JlrCartr. iter-
iieiie uneoman 1.
mftnfniKfi AArfmv
. Merrhnon, (ienoTa
It f IS minute.
Time et period
AMERICAN REPORTED LOST ON ALAUNIA
LONDON, Oct. 21. Charles llroiloy, of Washington, this after
noon icportod to tho United States Embassy hero that E.-Il. Sloane,
nu American ltoiuo denier, probably was los.t when the Alaunia sunk
last Thursday.
FIFTH JERSEY INFANTRY OCDERED HOME
WASHINGTON", Oct. 21. General Funston repoited to the War
Department today .that the Fifth New Jersey Infantry had been or
dctcd to tetuvn home from El Paso, Tex., on October 21.
,. "
' INVALID REGULARS TO GO TO MILITARY HOSPITAL
WASHINGTON, Oct. 21. Two hundred tegulais, including a
number of typhold'paticuts, will nrrivo here lu a few liaya fioin tlie
bolder for treatment at the Walter Heed Military Hospital.
NEW ?;i,000,000,000 GERMAN WAR CREDIT PLANNED
LONDON, Oct. 21. A Central News dispatch from Amsterdam states that the
Reichstag will consider a new war credit amounting to 12,000,000,000
($3,000,000,000).
a v-vw- mritmrniT -- imT t Ttn trnnn
A km til j umuau oiiir nauu ur nuiift tz, j
The Dritish steamship Missouri, of the Atlantic Transport Line, waa refused
clearance papers this afternoon by the Treasury Department at Washington. The
reason chen van that the ship was to go on a coastwise voyage from Philadelphia
to Baltimore with a gun mounted on her deck. The ship Is now held up awaiting
the decision of tho Stale Department as to whether she Is a war vessel or a mer
chant nhlp. At tho olllcc of tho American Transport Line It was said that they did
not ace why the essel should be held up.
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
FltANKldN FIELD, Oct. Jl-Th
largest crowd that ever attended an Oc"
ber football same In this city waa on haa4 r
to see the rennsylvanla-Peun 'State tame,
this afternoon. It waa the most enthue
nstlo gathering that haa been Ituude tpa
gates of this hlstorlo field In years, aaA
aside from the 2000 fitato atudenta and
their small body of rooters it waa strictly
a Pennsylvania crowd. ,
The switch In Penn'a line-up has ;
strengthened the team, according to the
belief of the student body, and they ex-'
peeled to see the reconstructed and rejuve
nated lied and niuo team surprise the
greatest aggregation' that State haa sent
down to this city since Dexter Verya all
star cast smothered Pe.nn a few yeara ago.
The claim has been made that the foot
ball games at Franklin Field In recent
years have lacked the old-time dash and z,
fighting spirit, but today there surely will v
be a battle royal. There Is bad feeling
among the players of tho. two teams oyer
the disqualification of Bltl Nelll, Finn's
star guard, on tho evo of battle, and the
Ited and Blue team la determined t wIsl
any way and then aever athletic relations
with the up-State collegians. -
Even It a friendly spirit existed between
the playera of the two teams, today's game
would be an unusual one for this time oi
.the season, as Fenn Is making Its )at
stand. Defeat In a close and brlltant bat
tlofwlll not hurt Penn, but-an overwheti "y
fner trlumnh for State and another exhlbl v
tlon such as that staged last Saturday, j1
probably wilt destroy the confidence ot f
Folwell's men and cause them to go to
pieces, Just as the 191E team did.
' On the form .shown by the two teams to)
date, State appears to be about two touch'
downs stronger than Penn, but there la
no use trying to dope out football by com
parative scores. Pennsylvania teams have
a habit of arising to the emergency and
upsetting the dope, and If the new back
field works as well as Folwell expects,
Harlow's powerful aggregation may be aurj
prised greatly.
State has the balance, and the great ad
vantage ot having Its line-up Intact The
husky Blue and White eleven has been
lucky enough to escape Injuries, and baa
been practicing much longer than Penn. '
with the sole object of defeating Folwell's
team, regardless of the result of the root
of the games on Its schedule.
No team haa been able to make an Im
pression on State's defense, while opposing
teams have been helpless before the whirl
wind attack of the Blue and White. Oa
.1 n
Continued on rate Thirteen, Column jTsav
ALL RUMANIANS IN BERLIN INTERNED
lii;itl,IN, Oct 21 All Rumanians In llerlln aro now interned. "This measure
was made necessary," saja tho Overseas News Ajrency, "by the Rumanian Govern
ment, which holds the Germans Interned, thus following the English example and
violating the law of nations, ns did the English."
INFANTILE PARALYSIS CASES REPORTED DAILY
Infantllo paralysis cases continue being reported to the Board of Health at a
rate of ono n day. Tho total number of cases since the epidemic began is now,. 931,
with a death toll of 283. Franz Novakovltz, two and one-halt years old, 917 Fair
mount avenue, was reported to have become ainicted with the disease today. No
deaths were reported,
siairrlnn
Us
arUa strata m
PRINCE HENRY NAMED CHIEF OF GERMAN NAVY
AMSTERDAM, Oct. 21. Kaiser Wllhelm has appointed Prince Henry of Prussia,
his only bi other, Grand Admiral n the German navy, said a Berlin dispatch today.
(Prince Henry visited the United States several yeara ago and holds an honorary
degree from Harvard University. He la fifty-four years old.)
KAISER GROWING THIN ON "WAR BREAD"
AMSTERDAM, Oct. 21. The Kaiser Is becoming thin from the rigorous diet
Imposed by the war. A dispatch received here today aald that when the Emperor
reviewed the German troops at Verdun this week It was noticeable that he bore
less flenh than when he was last seen there. The Kaiser goes without meat four
days a week and eats black "war bread."
TEUTON STATESMEN DISCUSS PLAN FOR PfLISH KINGDOM
BERLIN, Oct. 21. The hope that a Polish kingdom ma be created before tho
end of the war bus been revived among leading Berlin Poles by the conference be
tween Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg, Foreign Secretary von Jagow and Aus
trian Foreign Minister Baron Burlan. It is understood that the German and Aus
trian negotiations concerning Poland's future were resumed at, this conferenee,
Only recently a meeting of the Polish nobility was held here. f
FREEDOM OF SEAS CALLED ONLY BAR TO PEACE
ZURICH, Oct, 21. Freedom ot the aeas Is the only bar to peace, according te
Herr ekhlffer, & member of the German Reichstag, An Interview with the deputy
'waa printed here today, In which he aald that; Germany wilt fight until freedom
of the aeas is won,
i
BETTING TAKES A SPURT IN NEW YORK
NKW YORK, Oct, 21. Forty theuaand dollars' wsrUt t eJeeikm Ut ware
posted In WH street tfday at yetriMM odd i Hughe and TTMeaw fnllewtwc tat
heavies single day's betting wkriaUie cawpalgn. The meat ot H waa KUN
Hughe I, T r 7K on Wttee.' Albert aMskaji sm aa had 4
e$iJft.li,ftttf JWJttfp. , Jft4 " " JMt wnk of Utt !
Bam- Mwi4JttAittwiwi.Jw bi utMf a nmm.tJm
K.
"JIAYOIt OF NO iMAN'S LAND"
His Name Is Thomas 13; Smith and
Is Sent to House of, Correction
for Begging
Thomas B Smith, who admitted ,h wan
Mayor, but not of Philadelphia, was ar
raigned before Magistrate Price in the
Ridge and Mldvale avenues station ioda
lie was arrested last night by Fotteemaa
DCyle at Eighteenth street and German
town avenue.
"I am Mayor of 'No Man's land,'" said
Smith In answer to a question.
" Well, don't you think your duties have
keen rather arduous lately? DenJt y
think a six months acatlon would beoeftt
ycuT" asked Magistrate Price.
"Since the price of coal threaten to reaefc
(20 n ton before Christinas and bread wtB
scon cost a quarter a loaf, I suppose I had
better resign my omcej" answered Hmlth,
Smith was accused of soliciting 'cam
paign" funds from pedestrians. He wtsl
sojourn at the "Rest Home" ! Holmeeemrg.
MILK UI'ONE CENT ON MQPAY
Two Dairies Serve Netiee to CutotMM
ef an Increase to 9 Cents
a Quart ,
A .pnecent Increase In the price of
grades f mUk wH be oharged,!
Monday, by the Huele Attorney
Weveiith, aod JMerssn streets." i
Seett-PoweJl ' AMMr eayy
Kerty.flfth and. rWrWetreeja,
Both eotnpanlas Mtf nstjay s
paced '!area VjJ .sieis le
The !
'Kathas te slMMles jwtrssWt oVMrtea UM f
st yar ef,hava aWSM tatsjs In
reaae m te hlflMr we asjs; sjpi i
In Mm vrteAef oaa. bottle, eav i
all eiker auppllea tMed to the dairy
nilS, MOI - trjmr wwa
s an advaavxd prtee vr prevtew
h iisjshr aJHWNsaee the tuUowiqg
-"Ttastde Fasmouat Karma nut 11
aar qvaart, eestts per pint
itses Msttsarne nana
ad eaaM per atat
4M
