TP
VOL. XXXVI. NO 46
HAYS, ELLIS COUNTY, KANSAS OCTOBER 21, 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION $1.50 PER YEAR
li- HE
Guard adeinst fhe
oncenainTies ot Tne
future. Start your
A bank account is the safest shield for protection, and, once yo
begin to save, you will be convinced it is the only road to comfort and
wealth.
A person should take no risks of disadvantage in the future hile
he is able to make himself secure. When one is so situated as to be able
to afford risks, then he may be venturesome.
Start a bank account with us now.
Interest paid on savings..
: I i i 1 warn
480 Acre Farm
One hundred eighty-five (185) acres under cultivation, 250 acres
capable of cultivation, all fenced and cross-fenced, good well of
water with wind-mil!, 5 room house, 2 barns, granary, criicken
house, fruit trees; 7 1-2 miles from town. Price $12000 good
terms.
Phone 47, DULLER BROS., Hays, Kan.
Comparison of Subjects Taught by the Association
Medical Colleges and Osteopathic Colleges.
of
MEDICAL COLLEGES.
Histology
Embryology
Osteology
Anatomy
HAYS, KANSAS
I MAKE A SPECIALTY
Baby and Children's Pictures, Family Group Pic
tures, Wedding Pictures; Istest styles at right prices
Your Friends Can Buy Anything You Can
Give Them But Your Photograph.
Our Christmas Styles in a Class by Themselves
MARKEL
On Juniata Ave. near Cox's Racket Store.
Kodak work finished on.e day. Views Taken Anytime or place.
It S
ill.
WEle GOT THOSE
CC MATHTDIAIC
YOU WANT FOR
HSR!
LL &
MWTEi
r, -r-? y-i a r-v"n . r till I rs y u
Vou will love to hear fhe humming of the
sewing machine a-working the new fail and
winter outfit you need if you come in and get
your dress goods and trimmings from us.
We shall help you select the shades to suit
your complexion and will see that the trim
mings "match so there will bs no discord in
your clothes color-scheme. Dressing well is
an art.
We keep the BEST but sell it for LESS.
H. A. NICKLES, Hays, Kansas
OSTEOPATHIC COLLEGES
Histology
Embryology " ...
Osteology
Anatomy :
Physiology Physiology
Chemistry and Toxicology Chemistry and Toxicology
Principles of Osteopathy LIateria Medica
Osteopathic Mechanics ; Pharmacology .
Therapeutics (Osteopathic) Therapeutics (Medical)
Bacteriology... Bacteriology
Pathology Pathology
Medical Zoology
Clinical Microscopy Clinical Microscopy
Physical Diagnosis . . - Physical Diagnosis
Osteopathic Diagnosis
Practice of Osteopathy Practice or Medicine
Surgery . Surgery
Applied Anatomy
Obstetrics Obstetrics
Gynecology Gynecology
Pediatrics --- Pediatrics
Eye and Ear Eye and Ear
Nose and Throat Nose and Throat
Mental and Nervous Diseases Mental and Nervous Diseases
Electro-Therapeutics Electro-Therapeutics
Genito-Urinary Diseases Geni to-Urinary Diseases
Dermatology and Syphilis Dermatology and Syphilis
Hygiene and Public Health Hygiene and Public Health
Dietetics Dietetics
Medical Jurisprudence Medical Jurisprudence
A great many people seem not to understand that Osteopathy treats all dis
eases that any school of medicine treats, but that Osteopaths only "rub" se
lected diseases and injuries.
There is no such thing as rubbing in the Osteopathic profession. A glance
at the above comparison of subjects taught" in the Osteopathic and the druor
schools, should convince one that Osteopaths have more knowledge of the med
ical profession than how to "rub."
Osteopathy is a complete and independent system of treating diseases by
scientific manipulations, the purpose and intent of each manipulation being either
to correct some derangement in the position of thtissue3 ito increa.se.or de
crease the activity of some organ. It is not a remedy or method applicable to
some particular disease or group of symptoms, but is co-exteisive with the art
and science of healing, and successfully treats all curable, acute and chronic
diseases. Its field includes all those diseases treated by any schhl of medicine.
Dr. T. H. Clover.
J
O 2-
can - ana- insurance to.
FARM LOANS
At Correct Rates
INSURANCE
In Best Companies
Bonded Abstractor for Ellis Co.
is visiting rela-
Mrs. George Starr
tives in St. Louis.
Gay Tilloson caught two coyotes the
first of the week.
Geo. Tip and family of Rush County,
were in Haj's, this week,
tives.
visiting rela-
. Harry King has commenced worl;
his new residence in the north part
the city
County Superintendent, Wilson, of
Gove County, and Dr. McNaughton,
were here from Gove City, Tuesday.
State Forester, Scott, was in Hays,
Monday, the guest at dinner of Forest
er Bodie,of the Experiment Station.
Miss Mayetta Klingler who is teach-
i ing at Grainfield, in plac? of Miss Har
vey, who is quite ill, was in Hays, the
first of the week.
John Brown is putting in a founda
tion and will build a house on hi3 lot
on South Pine Street, just south of the
Treat playground.
Dr. Vermillion is building a new
; porch to his house on Juniat3 Street also
! replastering and repapering and other
j wise improving the property.
( Last Saturday, A. W. Copeland from
j near McCracken, was in Hays, with
j ten loads of wheat and Tuesday, of
this week, he was here again with
j about as much more,
j Lost: A package containing seven
I table napking on Normal Avenue be- j
tween Prof. Shively s residence and
Alex Bissing's. Finder will please leave
at Free Press office or return to Mrs.
Moe.
Frank Stout is building a store houe
on the back of his lots on East Juniata.
The car of papers being gathered by
the ladies of the Presbyterian church,
will go in a couple of weeks. Anyone
having old fiapers or magazines, please
call :rS'i.
Joe Stremel. a plumber who has ben
living in Hays, for several months oast.
suddenly left town. It is reported that
he owed several residents and busi
ness men various sums of money rang
ing from a few dollars to several hundred.
Mr. and Mrs. Griffith of San Diego,
Calif., are here this week on a visit to
Mr. Freese. They are on a four months
j auto trip; from home to Seattle, then
ease 10 ivansas viiy, xo visic relatives,
and home through Texas, making the
long trip in their Ford touring car.
Gay Tillotson wishes the Free Press
to inform the farmers in this vicinity
that if they are being bothered by the
unwelcome visit of one or more coyotes
to phone him and he be will pleased to
come out with his prize pack of grey
hounds and catch them.
What is Hays going to do in regard
to the proposed railroads that are headed
in this direction? The Free Press has
not heard any mention of them for sev
eral weeks. Hays people cannot afford
to lay down on an proposition that will
be a benefit and a boost for the town.
Last Sunday the members of the
Lutheran Sunday School, presented
their pastor, Rev. Wiest, with a purse
of money and the congregation also in
creased his salary ?500 per year. For
tunate i3 the man who, while yst on
earth, can hear tke welcome plauded,
"Well done thou good and faithful servant,"
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Orth entertained
at their farm home, south of town, last
Sunday, s.t dinner the following friends
and neighbors: Mr. and Mrs. Mike
Witt, Tony and Frances Witt, Mr. and
Mrs. Alfred Wandby, Mr. and Mrs.
Will Wandby, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Furth
meicr, Herbert Black and Tom French,
all of Gorham, Kansas: Mr. and Mrs.
i John J. Stiab and Mr. Jake Walder of
i Buckeye Township, and Mr. and Mrs.
! Frank Pfeifer of Pleasant Hiil Town-
ship. It was a pleasant gathering
which was enjoyed by all present.
On the first page of the Free Press
will be found the Mayor's proclama
tion; a call for an election to occur
on Nowember 20th, to decide whether
Hays shall have commission form of
government or continue the old and un
certain way of city government by
wards as in the past. Other and
j smaller cities than Hays have tried the
j commission form and have found the
j new way much the best. A large num
ber of Hays citizens seem to want it,
then why not give it a trial and if it
is a success here and it has proven
in ether towns; then it is the kind of
government Hays people are looking
for. Let us give it a trial.
Monday October "23, will occur the
first nuiti ..r cf the Normal Lyceum
Course for the present year. The Nor
mal faculty are at a great expense, each
year, to bring something good for the
entertainment of the people; something
that will instruct as well as entertain.
This 3-ear the program of the Lyceum
is better than ever before and should
be liberally patronized. - Some persons
seem to think that the Normal people
make money by bringing these enter
tainments, but such is not the fact. If
they break even, they are in luck. We
know from personal knowledge, that a
number of times last year, they had to
go down into their pockets and pay a
deficit from $75 to 3150, therefore, as
these entertainments are mostly in the
interest of the students and the people
of Hays, they should be and are being
loyally supported. Don't forget "The
Zendler Symphonic Sextette" at the
Normall Auditorium! Oatober 23rdv
The Light Plant Again. j
- Aboufc two years ago, the citizens of I
Hays were called upon to vote for mu- j
nici pal .ownership of the Hays Electric !
Light and Power plant. The Free Press j
then as now, was heartily in favor of j
the city owning and running the plant .
for the benefit of the citizens of the j
city, but after rather a hotly contested j
campaign, the proposition was turned I
down at the polls. Now the matter i
has come to the front again. The own
ers of the Light Plant have recently
asked (as their fraechise will soon ex
pire) that the city council grant them a
new franchise. The city council, after
deliberating with the owners of the
plant, hare employed a Kansas City
Engineering Company to appraise the 1 1
plant to ascertain approximately what j
it is worth, and will again submit the i
question of municipal ownersnip of the
plant, to the citizens of the city, Nov. j
20th, the same date called for the deci- ;
sion on commission form of govern-:
ment.
It has simply narrowed down to two
propositions. The city must either own
the plant or the Light Company will be
given a new irancnise, and that win
probably mean the sale of the plant to
some outside firm that will work the
business for all it is worth. Municipal
ownership will mean a reduction in the
cost of lights for the city and its k citi
zens. A new franchise will mean the
same rate of 15c per killowat. If the
property should be sold to outside
parties, ahigher rate might be charged.
See Mayor Chittenden or the Light
Plant people, and get all information
possible before you decide.
This important matter will be discuss
ed in future issues of the Free Press,
and we hope that the property holders
and voters will take a different view of
the matter at the next election.
OBITUARY
Cordelia Frances Fitch, widow of
Marcu3 J. R. Treat, passed out of the
body to a higher life August 17, 1916,
while sitting peacefully in her wheel
chair under the beautiful trees in the
yard of her home, upon the anniversary
of her marriage to the husband of her
youth, Chester J. Colborn.
Mrs. Treat was married to Mr. Treat,
June 16. 1861. at Medina, Ohio, and
moved from Medina, Ohio, to Memphis,
Tenn., during thg first year of the Civil
War. During tits struggle Mrs. Treat
was a friend td the Union soldiers,
and the orphans of the colored race.
For this race she sacrificed several
years of her early life, by taking charge
of the Memphis .Colored Orphan Asy
lum, which was founded by Mr. Treat's
sister, Mrs. S. A. Martha Canfi eld, who
was a very noble character. This asy
lum was turned over to the Episcopal
Diocese at the close of the war.
Mr. Treat came to Hays, October 22,
1867, leaving his wife in her position at
the asylum , until he could make a home
for her. She arrived in Hays, with her
two children May, 1869.
"They had many struggles in this west
ern town, and she stood shoulder to
shoulder with her husband in laying
the foundation of their future home
and fortune.
One of the incidents of her life in the
early days centered around a very des
perate character, whose name was
James Currie, who terrorized the town,
no man dared to ask for help from the
Fort, finally two women, one of them
Mrs. Treat, slipped cut and going in . a
round about way reached the Fort and
secured troops for relief, and such was
the terror of Currie and his crowd, that
Mrs. Treat and her friend did not dare
tell of their midnight journey for
years.
In the early days when anyone was
needed in time of birth, sickness, and
death, Mrs. Treat was the comforter
and helper.
Mrs. Treat was a charter member of
the Eastern Star and the Rebekah
Lodge.
May God bless her for her work here,
may His light shine upon her in her
new home, where she is not in the dark
ened mental condition and cripple!
state that was her lot in the last few
years of her life.
ARE YOU A BUILDER
If you are, you know that one dollar on
top of another dollar builds you a fortune
that will in the future'protect and shelter
you. Pile up your money n the
First National Bank
and build vou a fortune.
DO IT NOW
Election Proclamation.
Whereas, over forty per cent of the
qualified electors of the city of Hays, in
the state of Kansas, have by their peti
tion requested that a special election be
called of the voters of said city of Havs
for the purpose of submitting to. said
voters the question of whether the city
of Hays, Kansas, shall adopt article ten
of chapter 18, General Statutes of 1900,
and that an ordinance has been passed
by the maj'or and councilmen calling
and authorizing said election.
Now, Therefore, I, H. W. Chitten
den, Mayor of the City of Haj-s, Kan
sas, do hereby give notice and pro
claim that on Monday, Nov. 20, 1916,
between the hours of 8 o'clock a. m.
and six o'clock p. m., there will be held
in Hays City, Kansas, a special election
of the voters of said city, at which
election there will be submitted to the
qualified electors of said city the fol
lowing question:
Shall the city of Hays, Kansas, adopt
the provisions of article ten, chapter
18. General Statutes of i:x9. the same
being an act providing for the govern
ment of cities of the second class by a
board of commissioners.
The polttr.g place at which votes will
be received in the first ward of said
city is at the office of Alex Schueler.
In the second ward at the city hall.
In the third ward at the Grand Army
Hall. H. W. Chittenden,
Attest: F. Loreditsch, Mayor.
Citv Clerk.
At the HAYS OPERA HOUSE
Kfed., Oct. 25. ISIS
"The Society
Crook"
A Four Act Drama presented
by the Hays Opera House Co.
composed of all Local Talent
CURTAIN RAISES AT 8:30 P. M, .
ADMISSION - 25 gc 35 Cts.
Lost. A dark red cow with short
horns. The finder will please notify
Casper Kippes at Victoria.
Wanted- A saleslady who speaks
German, to work in the store.
Alex Bissmg.
The W. C- T. U. will meet with Mrs.
Nolind, next Wednesday afternoon,
October 25th.
Frank King is repaictirg the ineide
of his meat market. A good idea. "
There will be a box social with an
elaborate program at the Silveroale
school house, Friday night, November
10. Proceeds to go for a Christmas
tree. A cordial invitation U extended
to all. Chas. Brewer, Jr., Teacher.
When in Hays, Don't Forget
That it is our businsss to supply
your needs in the Grocery Line
We have a Complete Stock of l
Fresh Groceries, Fresh Vegetables and Cured Meats.
Quality The Best. Prices Right. Courteous Treitment
. G. V. MEYERS -
N. Fort St. O??oite Telephone Oliic;
Phone 281.
. Notice to Flower Lovers.
The Civic League Committee have
their flower bulbs and will be ready to
sell them Monday afternoon. October
23, at Mrs. Nellie Addison's home.
Flowers are not hard to grow if you
give them just a little care. Help beau
tify the city by planting a few bulbs.
Prices within the reach of all. You tray
them for just what they coat the Civic
League. If you can't come, phene
your order. Will deliver for five cents
at your home. Nellie Addison,
Lucy FHen.
STEAM VULCANIZING
All Kinds of Tire Repairing
. Blow-outs Skillfull Repaired and Guaranteed
Tube patching a specialty. TUBE PRICES: Nail hole 15 cts
Each additionol nail hole on same tube 5 cents. Blow-outs and
other holes according to size. We gladly call for and deliver all
work inside the city.
HAYS CITY TIRE & REPAIR CO.
On North White Way. West Juniata Street
JOHN P. O'GRADY. President.
JACOB BRULL, Vice President.
JOHN S. SACK, Vice President
FRANCIS B. O'GR ADYC Cashier.
TT1
lm TV?
eh
liters
Mate imm
CAPITAL 525,000 SURPLUS 55,000
a
' A NEW BANK :
But Old Management
N. F. ARNHOLD. JACOB BRULL, FRANCIS B. O'GRADY,
JOHN P. O'GRADY. JOHN S. SACK, N. M. SCHLYER,
A. A. WIESNER
WE SOLICIT YOUR ACCOUNT
