lmericanFgrk Citizen
- "' AMKHICAS FOLK CITOIi.-C, SATraY, OCTO,,,;,, , ml " - - - - J
Jjjjjghteen Mines
Will Continue
I Winter Work
IrPPARATIONS are completed for greater
WINTER ACTIVITY IN CANYON'S HISTORY, WHICH
MEANS MORE PRODUCING PROPERTIES WITH OPEN-
jug OF SPRING.
I American Fork Canyon minors arc carrying out a prom am
tl,rel,;,ri'(lii"s for llio winter snows that will commence to
Ball novt month Tlioy are building winter cabins and laving
Kstoeksof supplies Hint will tide them over till spring hi case
iMtedeep snows should make it impossible to go up and down
Willi teams. . -, , ,
llfl List year there was a period or several months when teams
Wild not' aigato the six loot of snow- However, the min-
Ws say flint tIu' roml w'11 1)0 'C(JPt )ou ll's yt'M'. as the ore
Wiw'oinK up "nil (lown duiy during and immediately follow
B.mo1i full of snow will make the road rmssnhle until sin-imr
H N'ercr before In tlic canyon's history
l,tre so many propoitlos proparlng
jccEtlnuo work during tho winter.
Mitre aro nt leant eighteen mining
SoMrtapanles who hnvo ptactlcally com.
fiHi'cM lliclr P1-0!'111"3110113, They In.
Jsfle the Us Pacific, with n forco of
:: kast thirty men, Tho Dutchman
v!d; operated hy tho same set of
'lHwcrs, with a force of a dozen or 1C
':, Tlio Copper Glance, owned by
tors MIMer Johnson and Crnlg;
lit Mineral Hat owned by the Knight
nWtsand the Red Cloud, n neaiby
M-.elghbor owned by Matthew Cullcii of
lVt Lake Mill operated hy his sons.
ilaw, Mcs ,rs Leonard nnd Wllklns.
I The Miller Hill Exploration Co. thin
ink let a 1.000 foot contract to ex.
U end Its tunnel now In over GOO feet.
'Bnii will take most of tho wlntor to
-irfre J. C. Jensen is general man.
ma and Emll Nelson has the 1000
tet contract. Mr. Jensen also is tho
Hjgceipf Mineral JJatHjHHMriUMl
phe South Parle, under tho manage.
iBwct of Snator J, II, Wootton, Is in
fl'bac for work nil winter nnd tho
jHvJantlc property its neighbor on tho
urth, will continue woik in splto
Ht( the falling snows. Messrs. J. I..
VcKlnncy end Joseph Johnson arc
ti molns spirits in tho Atlantic.
Th" Ila State Is completing it"'
jHht cabln-i ro that the miners may
Htar winter comforts and will proh.
ii'r Increase Its present forco.
Toe Karl Haglo is one of the high.
t property in tho ennyon and last
wson Its cabin was completely cov.
'fltrcl with the "beautiful." Thin
fltrcperty Is will financed Tor the
filter M-mager C W. Karl expects
flto tut the Miller fissure soon, but
N contltie on nnd before spilng
fllopet to liao opened tho big Yriitlcco
fjsurc.
lilEEN
TI$J20PERT0N
Mthmnii Mine Mii lime lllgger
H f ln (.'mde Tlinn the Pit.
tlflr.
Ucielopmo ,t work Is being con.
kwd win. Mgor on tho Dutchman
" by iiu Fissures F.xlomtlon Co.
'I l reported timt the minors aro
JMIng up (i bigger mine tlinn tho
Pacific ami 'hot somo Immenso bod.
"fIowg,.ii ore Is iolng opened up.
bis depo it of what was thought lo
tlecoinimsed llmo by tho leasers
'ho ,iav l" '"U w oi king tho proper.
' for tho U i sovornl ycais, now
out .., i,o a f0 j,rn(l0 of mln.
eg oro - u.i to contain values of over
'' Per ton Thirteen assays wore
earl ,, tho week, nnd n party
10 w t ,., say8 thnt ,0 0WQni
over $. ,nr ton and tho highest
ff Hon Tho high assay is from
nnew smu. ,,r Bni0na oio that the
"lro nim; and will appai ontly
ou to b ti permanent body.
- - n
1,1,1 ' M 1I0U
M:lt COMI'MITION.
htTU' '" " 1'1"1 Uvo 'cams aio
thiWrk"": on ,ho ow t'l fr"i
mlm' n"" t0 tho mttl Mlleh
rli(h "''' '"' to bo cut away nnd
Arthu p '"" '" 'H'fossaiy but Mr.
trui who ,lnH ,h0 contract
""' I' ili have tho road com.
r" by I '"" Ul l,lp "ln0 ,'nll'Ml
, (h ' n,,a't Tho mill now
., ,u and all tho windows
t .3 ' Ur .iffaii and Is a sur
' in . ' " ttl ttn' iil nro
4 lrj1' ' c 0.2.
Tho Gold Hill has boon making
proparatlotiB for winter nnd Manager
Nlcholrs hopes to have tho oio open,
ed up In tho near future, In which
case ho will not only contlntio work,
but keep tho road open for shipping
purposes. Tho Wasatch Range, o
nearby neighbor of tho Gold Hill will
continue all winter, probably as n
shipper, as tho mliiois aro ejecting
ovcry shift to cut tho oio of which
Micro was three feet of a Milpplw
grndo in tho workings above. The
Mciccr group, another nearby prop,
city has recently completed wlntor
uuiters for Its mean and will cuffer
no lot up in going after tho oro
On tho dlvido the AlpIno.lCmplrc.
another Knight property has let n con.
tract that will extend into tho winter
and if tho contact lia3 not been
loachcd they will let an extension.
Then there Is the Major Evans
which Charley Hanks Gays will keep
or an It Is well financed to (his end.
Wlntor never stops Charley Tyng
and ho will continue- tho usual force
on the Texan and Whirlwind tunnels
The Silver Dipper, tho American
Voik Queen, tho Nash, the Pacific
ICxtcnsion. tho Smuggler, the Lnvnun
tho Holey, tho Mary KUen, tho Yankee
and govern 1 others nie still at work
and at least somo of them will contin
ues during the winter. j
Taken all in nil tho outlook Is eryj
good for tho opening up of several
now shlppors heforo the opening of .
spring. All of theso properties have
strong mineralisation or promising
mineral bearing fissures on at least
four have oro of a shipping grado
that they aro driving for with deeper
workings. Tho outlook Is that next
senson will seo nctMty of this seas.
on doubled with the opening of spring.
WORK COMMENCED
ONJHER LIj
Tho l'heonlx Construction Co com. I
meiiced work this week on tho pow.j
or line Hint will bifhg olectilc power j
lrom tho Snako Cicok plant to the
Pacific Mill. The dlslanco Is about
t! miles. Tho men aro working fiom
tho Snnko Creek end of tho lino, nnd
aro expected to be ovor (ho divide In
n few days.
Tho Dutchman and Pacific mines
nro both anxiously waiting for tho
power as thoy can do no sinking until
tho power an Ives so that pumps may
bo operated. Tho chlof puiposo of
tlio Hue. however, Is to supply pow.
or for tho mill now neailng eomple.
tlon.
PACU'IC SUM'S ANOTIIMI t'H
The Pacific shipped another nr
of oro to tho sampler yesterday. It is
ii mlxturo of Hie copper and load oio
that havo been coming fiom tho mlno
the past month. Tho loccnt stoims
have miido tho loads muddy nnd slow,
ed up on the hauling some
FON.CHIPMAN. P.M.
I-'on Chlpman announces that ho
has iccched the appointment of tho
poslmastor of Tyng, tho nnmo by which
Amorlcan Fork Canyon will ho olll.
dally known Mr Chlpman had tho
endorsement of nearly all tho minors
In the C'nntm at tlio time when ho
made his application He spent most
of tho past two jnis In tho Canyon
but i) cinplojcil ii tho Chlpman M
if dl&$? &$43&& iiJEttfljfOiS? fJfafB Ii JOKFl? II IB
!1 Styleplus ycek from coast to coast the country over 1 The week when I IjSSn
the up-and-doing men of the nation are buying their new clothes. Styleplus j Wm
5 j at the attractive-.and4 easy price $17. I $m
ii -7- pricei;emalnsaithe. same this season, in spite of existing conditions, I . m.k
M All wool or silk and wool fabrics in the latest attractive shades and pat- I "il
II terns. The canvas and haircloth understructurc is thoroughly shrunk in I o
water for twenty-four hours. Fine substantial linings. Hand tailoring in the I u
vital parts. A corps of famous designers fashion the models. Here are I f
BS clothes of remarkable style and guaranteed quality. I mu
j ii Increased volume this past season centered on this suit and overcoat I jlH
II has reduced the manufacturing cost and again brings the price down to 'ii
$17 the nation over. i Mm
J We are the only Styleplus Store in town. 1 Imut
R Style plus all wool fabrics -j- perfect fit -f- easy price -J- guaranteed wear Wb
l li in inn mi in in i ii ii nnrmnBiM mHK
fflsS$!' Chlpman Merc. Co. I
""ni'toi'ihe Jm-"""3 AMERICAN FORK, UTAH "THE BUSINESS CENTER" I H
tn tthtr ttunlrltt dutj Utl) f fKS
'1l(jjir-rTfaT"TMMllf""WTllT1rnWWOL't trmmmmfrnt ilWW winm- urn ihiiiii i furn - ini -utiiiwri tt inn i - hwm rn i 11 m M HEw
Co's fiiinltuio depaitnient at the
present time.
Mr Chlpmnn says thai lie will up
'jiolnt an nBHlstiint to seivo till spilng
probably O. A. Slado and that lie will
then equip an office and inovo up the
Canyon himself.
The omco will ho christened Tyng
In honor or tho man who look tlnee
quartern of a million out of the Mil
ler Hill several yo.irs ago, and win
was hilled by a snow slldo Just as b
was about to leap the benefits of his
good fortune. His body Is now bur.
led on Mlllor Hill.
GOLD HILL GETS
' PICTURE ROCK
The Gold Hill management thin
week let a contract for 100 foot on
their lower tuniiol known as tunnel
No. 3. l.osllo Campbell has the eon.
tiaet and has two shifts at work. The
tunnol Is now In about fifty feet and
copper Is coming In tho face.
Manager Theo Nlcholos camo dow n
from tho property and went Into Salt
I.ako Wednesday with 200 pounds of
somo of tho most beautiful pleturo
rock that over camo out of tho can.
von. It camo fiom tunnol No. 2
'which passod tlnoiigh -10 feet of cop.
por hearing ore Tho men nro now
ciosscuttlng on ti"' Hnio rpmm con
tact from whero tlio samplo were
taken Tho samplei contained lan;o(
chunks of withe coppir turnout pure
1PAN0G0S LOOP
A CONCRETE HIGHWAY
t a meeting of tho Coniiiioielal Club
1m Id nt American Foik Tuesday ev.
ninK it was tiiu tinnininous opln.
Ion of nil present, that wo ought to
duoiirago tho government In making
a good load up Amoilean Fork Cun.
) jii to Deor Crcok, then ovor the
mountain up Mill Canyon and down
the north fork of Provo Canyon, bo.
bind tho Tlmpanogos Mountain The
Uovornmont nnd the stnto will do
about tlireo.fourlhs of the work, nnd
will employ our own labor lu f-o doing.
AH present wore oiy onthiislnstlo
or tho matter and much Informii.
limi was given out hy tho Goorn.
niont mon who woie prosent nt the
iiu'eilng. It Is cortnln thnt such a
road well advortlsod with the unpar.
alleled hoaiitlful scenery that could
bn seen on tho route would IiiIiik !
many tourists to see our sconle benu.
ties, besides It would opon up a conn. '
try for trnvol tliat would add much
plonsuro of our local citizens and holp
in getting to and from tho canyon
minus with much loss trouble.
A big boost was nlso glvon tho pio.
poned BO mllo concrete county high,
way It wns stated that If tho eltl.
zeim of Utah County will work It
rluht, tho stato njid Govornmont would
do much toward putting a concrete
toad through our county from one
end to tho otlioi It does seem that
wo ought to quit past methods of haul
lm coll and gravel onto our State
Itond only to hao It blown tight away
as soon iik it Is traveled. If wo woul
spend a little more to begin with and
mnke a guod permanent cement loud
It would cut out so much expense
uadi year. Kory peison that tin.
wis would get the bonotlt of a ee.
meiit Stato itond through tho county.
As cement culvoits and bridges nro
far superior to lumber ouos, so Is a
concrete toad cheaper In the end
than our common tllit roads.
There cre present at tho mooting
A W. Jensen, suponisor of tlio Uln.
tali Reservation; C. H. Kendall, chief
highway engineer for tho National
forests; Mr. Aiontson. suporvlsor of
tho Wasatch Range; J. R Stownrt, tho
County Civil Engineer; Mr. Swan, the
Provo City Knglnoer; Marion Cling.
ei tin' County Road Suporvlsor, and
eoiiimlttco from I'roo In tho per.
son of Metists. Wilson, Dunn, Ward
and others Among tho load people
our Forostur, Mr. Manwill was prcs.
ent
.ot us all do It right and pull for
I a permanent cement road through
tho county nnd encourage tho Gov.
oinmcnt nil we can to tnako tho
' Tlmpanogos Loop.
! 0 '
I
, llDMOCRATS 1IOIK RALLY
Tlio Democrats held their biggest
rally of tho hoasou In tho City Hall
Monday ovonlug. Tho sponkors wcro
' ludgo Allon T. Sanford nnd Samuel
Russel of Salt I .tike. Congressman
Mays who was advertised failed to
airlvo because of his not having ro.
uiucd from tho cast
i,aihi:s oiica.m.i: Bi
itiiPinu.icA.N ci,uii. mft
Seenty.flvo ladles mot lu tho City S&j
Hall Tuesday evening and organized iBi.
the l.mllos Ropubllcaii Club, with Mrs. V1
Dorothy Pouruon prcsldont; Mrs. Slna S
Chlpman, 1st vlco president; Mrs. f
Thomas Coddlugtoii, 2nd vlco prosl. WL$
dent, Mrs. Rocd Gurdner, Seetotary. 1H&
Tieasurer; Mosdnme.-i Annie Hludloy, Sit
May lClisuoro, Miutha Huckwaltcr and JR1
James Drown, ovociitlvo committee. Pl
Mrs. Ilenjamln Cluff and G. J. Car. B-i
jionter of Provo and several of the H
county candidates made reinaiks. Hot Hfl
meat pies were solved as refresh. Hm'1
inonts. fK'
SilNAio'lt SI'THIlRliAMl ' Vm'
coMixtj wi:inksav. Jri
Tho Ropuhllcmu ato planning the wl
big tally of tholr campaign for next H
Wednesday night, Oct. 2t. United B
States Senator George Sutherland HKjj
and Carl Iladger will bo tho speakers E
and a quartotto club from Provi will iMff
supply tho musfc. Tho meeting will tSvs
ho held In tho City I rail which will fl
bo provided with extra scats lo tic. mffl
comodato tho extra attendancei antl. if W"i
clpated. t fl mk
t . I ft Hi i8
NOTICE j ii
I wish to Inform tho pcopio o'e Am. b mg
oilcan Fork and all water useri that u 'Ka
I will bo at tho City Hall ovorl' Frl. " ff K
day and Saturday aftornoon to re. 9 W&
eclvo Irrigation and Paving taxes, n 0
commencing Oct. 20, 1010. Labor ifli
credits from sub.water masters nro 'ff
received and nro on file r
RospcctfuUy,
1 14 3t, MARV H. AI1LR, City Treas
I
