! '' w
WRATH FOR RCA AT
: Kulr ( ontlnm-d Saturday:
4- -in Kiilrt Wrwr.
public
!
! TWK I HH'KK I an adtrr.
Hln mHIim that nrtnffa it !
4 "alt. Oar rate nr ronnlat- 4
4 MM with rlrralatloa. Try n.
4.4.4.4.4.4,4.4.4.4.4,4.4,4,
MAYSVILI.E, KENTUCKY SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21. 1918.
kkkl i nrrnucA it 11
OAT COPY OSS CENT.
GETTING READY
lor the Oprnlnir of tho Tobacco Sea-
on In ThN t it) Are the OiMral
hiiiI liiitt'iirndcitt U arrhoura.
Never bcfor, In tlia history of the
looae loaf tobarrn IndiiKtry In Maya
vllln tins theri- boon mich huMIIng on
IN part of the MMktflMV of dsl various
vnrehotiROB In this rlly for hualncsit
aa then1 has ben thin season, and
none have been busier than W. P.
Steele ind U C, Tarker of the Inde
m ndent-Centrnl Warehouse Company.
With both of these well-known
houses In better shape this year to
brndle. If possible, a larger business
than heretofore, these two gentlemen,
thoroimh tobacco men In every re
spect, have about covered every mile ol
territory and looked over every crop
ot tobacco within a radius of fifty
n lles of this clty and If courteous
treatment, fair dealing a knowledge of
the tobacco business, splendid ware
houses, good light, good sorters, han
dlers and auctioneers and free stablee
go toward making business and
friends. It Is certain that these twr.
houses will have to go some to take
core of this season's business that is
bound to come to them.
These houses will be in first-clans
shape at the opening, and as their past
reputation Is a guarantee for the fu
ture, they are looking forward to the
largest volume of sales ever had since
the loose leaf market began here.
SOME CHANGE
Wm I EWIMO
(Rwlng Inquirer)
Messrs Steele and Parker, of the
Independent Central Warehouse, Mays
vllle, were In this part of the county
last week looking at the tobacco crops
They purchased several at a high flV
ure prices ranging from 12 to 14 cents
These gentlemen are well known In
this county, having been for the past
several years buying tobacco through
out this section. Their large and ac
commodating warehouse at Maysvllle
will be ready to receive tobacco the
iflnute Mm market opens and every
convenience that can be had will be
shown by the managers of this ware
house. MMM AIT.MKVEH'S PVIIBAIi
The funeral of Mr. John Robert Alt
meyer, son of Kditor and Mrs. John J.
Altmey r of West Second street, who
died suddenly Thursday morning, was
held from his late home on West Sec
ond street this morning with burial In
the Maysvllle c metery. A large num
ber of his friends were present to Day
a last tribute to the young man. Th;
pallbears were as follows: Ashby
Burgoyne, George HurrowB, Harry
Otto, George Dcvlne, James Seeley
and George McCarthey
FEATIRE MONDAY
SHOOTS BROTHER
r'anr-Year-Old Boy Killed by Ills
iir.thri With a Shot 9m at Min
erva Thnrsday About oon.
Alonj? about 9 o'clock yesterday
morning Boreas blew his Icy breath
on Mason county and vicinity causing
the summer clad persons to dig aftr
their overcoats and heavier garments.
A killing frost was scheduled for last
night but It failed to appear although
It was v.-ry cold. Winter Is with us
once again.
SWEET-ORIMES
Bert Williams, famous comedian,
formerly with ItagflaMI Follies, wll
appear in a negro comedy at the laF
tlme Monday, "A Natural Bom Gam
bler." The picture is a Blograph pro
duction and is an excellent comedy
Come out and see it.
WAS MATROX OK HONOR
The community of Minerva was
greatly shocked Thursday afternoon
to hear of the killing of the four-year-
1 (.111 art tt Mr ami Mra Joint Mnrnhnlt
of that place by the boy's seven-year-old
brother.
Mrs. Marshall had gone to the home
of a neighbor to get some milk for
dinner and had been gono some little
time. As she returned home sh
heard the sound of a shotgun in her
home and rushing In found that her
youngest son had been killed by his
brother. Tho boys had gotten their
father's shotgun down to Investigate it
and It had accident ly been discharged
The younger boy's head had almont
been shot otT.
After Mrs. Marshall had seen tie
dead boy lying on the floor she ran
screaming from the house and raJleil
some neighbors. The older boy did
not seem to realize the fact that he had
killed his brother and he said that the
gun had gone off accidentally.
Coroner Slack was not notified of
the shooting at the time and did not
learn of It until yesterday afternoon
In the excitement caused by the shoot
ing this was neglected. Investigation
will be made by Sunday.
FAIR OFFICERS BLftCTKR
In the wedding of Miss Susan
Frances Brooks and Dr. Donald Keyes
Clark in Louisville Wednesday night.
Mrs. Robert Peddicord, nee Smith, for
merly of this city, acted as matron el
honor to the bride. Her husband WW
groomsman.
The stockholders of the Lewis Coun
ty Fair Association held a meeting In
Vanceburg Monday and eld ted of
fleers for the ensuing year. They are
l-as follows:
President C. L. Tan man
Vice President J. M. Lee
Secretary J. P. Strother.
Treasurer T. M. Bowman.
Directors G. P. Adams. John C.
Wulker, W. T. Cooper, Samuel Pollltt.
I It. William, Frank Lykins, (). P
i'ollitt.
Mr. Samuel Grimes, 25, and Miss SPECIAL PRICE ON FLOCK H.7
May Sweet, 21, both of Spfingdale, .
were married In the office of County We bought before the advance and
Clerk J. J. Owens yesterday afternoon will let you share the profit. This of-
l.y Acting County Judge Fred W fer is good for one day only.
Bauer. J C. EVERETT & CO.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Winter.
Parts and Sup- goodar
nljpQ Fortified Tires
U 1 1 0 0 FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cute by the No-kl'n Cut feature.
... Blowout, by Ihe "On-Air" cure,
flj. mm I n r llPM LomoI roul, -by mnny rubber rlveti.
I QlQ rMI HIlD Iseecnrtty-by 176 bralrt.-.l piano wire..
U ft I U FMM end SkUWin. - by t:.e doublo
WUIW I W I 1 1 H V 0l,ck Au.Wealhl.r trtuii.
The Thrifty Farmer I
Keeps His Eye Pealed" For
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE
FARM MACHINERY
and that's the kind of man we cater to.
The New Peoria Drill is without a doubt
the most complete farm machine of its
kind on the market today, and we want
you to see it. It opens the furrow, drops
the seed at the boLom, and brings you a
better and bigger yield.
Don't forget the name, "New Peoria,"
and that it is sold by
MIKE BROWN
'The Square Deal Man
I1IU, I'KKACII TOMORROW
Kev. W. K McClure of Plemiugsburg
pastor of the M. E. Church. South, in
that place, will till tbe pulpit in the
First M. K. Church, South, in this city
tomorrow at both services in the ab
sence ol the regular minister. .Mr. Xlc
OMN is an excellent speaker and
s-liould he greeted by a large crowd
The Sunday School and BpwoHr
League services will be held uh usual
TAKEX TO CUT MISSION
Mr. -. .1 Boyd, the popular operator
at the C. O. Depot, last night noti
fied the City Mission that there was a
WM and two children at the depot
without any place to go or anything to
eat. They were taken to the Mission
hcre they were given lodging and
something to eat for the night. They
will be examined today as to their
home, etc.
KNTKRTAINN FKIF.NIIH
Miss Lillian Antle entertained a
number of her friends at her beautiful
home Just east of the city last even
ing. About 25 gucstB were present and
all enjoyed themselves greatly. Danc
ing was the order of the evening. The
guests departed at a late hour declar
ing Miss Antle a very charming hos
tess. NF. W. MAN' -CAM I'll F.LL
Mr. Earl D. Campbell and Miss
Agnes Stiles Newman both of Sardis
were married in the parsonage of the
Third Street M. E. Church yesterday
by Rev. S. K. Hunt. Mr. Campbell is
a very prominent young man of that
section of the county and his bride Ik
a very accomplished young lady.
ATI NOT FIXER SPOCTN
A great number of persons in the
city have not as yet fixed the down
spouts from their houses in violation
of the ordinance passed In the early
part of last summer. Several that have
In on not 1th it have fulled to do so and
thus are lluble to a Hue. A large
number have not been notified.
DEMOCRATS WILL HAVE SI'EAK-IM1
6A1 DELIVER ilWIMFlM
Frankfort, Ky.. October 20 It la
not a violation of the child In tun- law
for a boy tinder 14 years of age to de
liver newspapers or niagar.lnes to n
ngiilar list of subscribers Attorney
tieneral M. M. Ixignn advised Com
missioner of Agriculture Matt S. Cohen
today. It Is ngalnst the law for a hov
under 14 to engage in street occupa
tions but (leneral i ..i-.m Interpreted
this to mean that boys rnnnot go upon
the streets and engage In or sollri
business. Mere delivery of papers t'.
regular subscribers, he said, does not
subject n youth to physical and moral
dangers condemned In street occupa
tions. WILL RAVE LIBRARY
At a meeting of Ihe Parent-Teacher
snoointlon of the Forest Avenu
School yesterday afternoon It was de
cided to purchase a library for that
school. The books purchased will be
reference works and will not be per
mitted to leave the building. This is
an excellent move on the part of th"
association as Ihat school has long
needed something of this sort. Miss
Elizabeth Williams, the music teacher
of the schools, sang two very beautiful
solos before the organltation and also
read a very able paper on "School
Music." One new member was adder!
to the roll book of the Association.
OET JAIL SENTENCES
In the Federal Court at Covington. I
Ky , Thursday Judge Cochran sen- i
timed Heck Darnell of this city thirty!
days in Jail for selling liquor wltheu.
a government license. Joseph Chnn
cllor of l.ewlslnirg, atJMffMl uith us
ing the I'nlted States Malls with at
tempt to defraud, was sentenced to six
'nonths in jail. His wife who was also
connect mI with the alTnir was allowed
t-i go tn t, Tho couple had attempted
to blackmail Dr. Young Stevi nson of
(Jeorgetown, Ohio.
ERONT U.MOST COMPLETER
HID ME T SPECI AL FOR StTI H
RAY ONLV
Porterhouse Steak Per lb lc
Ixiln Steak Per lb lie
Hound Steak Per lb 16c
Chuck Steak Per lb 12Vc
Rib Roast Per lb 15c
Chuck Ron st Per lb IIMiC
Plate Roast Per lb 10c
Pure Lard Per lb 16c
I
Complete line. All prices. We can fit you. Satisfaction guar
nntee.l. Why pay city prices when yon can get the same frusa
from tin at one-half the costt
WEIS CENTRAL MKKET.
IS IMPROVING
ORUTJH C9
All sizes. Kubhcr tip. Best grade. See our line 5
M. F. WILLIAMS & COMPANY I
S CORNER THIRD AND MARKET SWUEETS
Rev. W. B. Campbell, who has been
seriously III at Hayswood Hospital for
the past few days Is quite improved
This will be good news to his many
friends.
Preaching at the German Protestant
Church Sunday morning at 10:30 a. m.
by Rev. Pilch.
See Us About Your Eyes
We give you honest advice, QI'AI.
ITY SERVICE and SATISFACTION
Broken lenses duplicated.
Dr. R. Kahn of Cincinnati on Monday?
Dr. Uenrge lletlne Every Day.
Optometrists and Opticians.
O'Keefe Building.
iXfiZZ. Creama ani Ices
B IE RLE Y' 5 CDNFECTIINERY
M Market Street Wm1
3jS
A HANDSOME PORCH
adds immensely to the agjMrance of
a house and the comJBrt aQil satisfac
tion of the oocupajta. To know bow
iiisilv it can be had Just coma and
look over our ml II-worked columns,
railings, etc., all so perfectly made and
adjusted that you can put them up
yourself, and tbe cost is so little!
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone filt.
I 1 MrLautrUla. L. H. Rekan.
r
The ront of the Dan Cohen Shoe
Store has about completed and will
add Bivek to the appearance of the
store. When entirely completed this
MM will present one of the n.ost aV
tractive fronts sjMM West Second
st reel.
The Atlas Coal Co has In its yard
pulverized limestone at $1 40 per ton
Can he had at this price If called foe
at once.
"DRESS ROMEO AS CHARLIE CHAPLIN
And Shakespeare's Immortal Lover Will Be Far From Convincing"
Dress a prosperous business man in a suit of inferior quality and he be
comes a joke.
Dress any man in Hechinger Clothes and he looks prosperous, feels pros
perous and is sure to be prosperous.
Come in and see our new suits. They are stunners. They not only have
qualities that appeal to your taste, but also have intrinsic worth that is shown
in long and satisfactory usefulness. Here you can select from the makes of:
Society Brand, Fashion Park, Stein-Bloch, Michaels, Stern & Co., Clothcraft, Grif
fon, Adler-Rochester.
D. HECHINGER & CO.
MEN'S AND BOYS' OUTFITTERS
October's Important Occupation
Buying new clothes is the absorbing question now. Everybody gets into a "dress-up" mood with the advent of another
season. An the winter styles becoming is often asked. They are. because they are simple and refined. Nothing extreme or
bizarre, just dignified, womanly, wearable clothes. Longer skirts, neither too wide nor too narrow, and simple in design.
Coats dependant for style upon "line" and upon clever belt and collar arrangement. Serge, gaberdine, broadcloth and
whipcord. AH from $15 to $50.
AU our Suits are made in New York City, so you are sure of buying what Now York women wear today.
Blankets
Of many styles and sizes, white, gray, red, plaid and fancy blankets. Single bed, double bed, crib size and extra large blankets
Everyone perfect and fresh from the best known mills of America.
Cotton as cheap as 75c. Wool nap only $1.98. All-wool a& little as $5.90.
The new production of blankets must inevitably bear higher prices. Our customers are strongly urged, therefore, to buy
now.
1862
1916
The Democrat campalttn in this
county will uuen thin afternoon at
1:30 o'clock when lion. Jamea I. ICd-
.triii. will addreaa the Democrats or
the county. It ia exnected that a i.u -
rowd will greet It 1 ti i
There will he a District Convention
ot the County Sunday School Aaaocia
C 1tn at Washington Sunday morning,
October 2tt, and at Mayallck In the af
ti moon at 2 30 Misa Mary Wllaou
will give a report of tbe State Conven
tion. Kev. Hooper, t'rof. Dlv and Mlaa
i ;n, h will be other apeakera.
MIMtlKr I I.VKkr I V k K IIOHr
sin i in John II Clarke waa removed
It bla botue In Mayallck yesterday. II.
la Improving rapidly ami will aoou be
abla Ui l out agalu
THINKING OF CHRISTMAS
We have put on sale an enormous line of fancy pieces for embroidering. They
are salesman's sample's and were bought at ONE-HALF PRICE and we have marked
them ONE-HALF PRICE.
They consist of stamped pillow covers, guest towels, Turkish towels, boudoir caps,
gowns, baby dresses, luncheon sets, slipper cases, laundry bags, table covers, etc., etc.
Any of these pieces will make a pretty and useful Xmas. gift and you buy at ONE
HALF PRICE.
We expect to sell every piece by Saturday night.
JU SB mm
