. I
6hio state
university
OCT 2 31916
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
ZtWWoN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 27
CINCINNATI, OHIO, OCTOBER 21, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Mfeite
pifc.
it
T
I!"
Vote Against John V. Campbell
As Well as Hughes, Herrick and Willis, and Then You Will Avoid War, National Prohibition
and Get a Square Deal. A Little History For Every Union Man to Remember
If They Want To Preserve Their Organizations.
Wliile union labor must vote against
Hughes, Herrick and Willis if they wish
to preserve their organizations and avoid
war and prohibition, there is another
menace closer to home that is equally
as important that of the candidacy of
John V. Campbell for County Prose
cutor. Mr Campbell has shown his hatred
lor organized labor in every case that
came under his jurisdiction, in a crim
inal way, and as state committeeman he
appeared before the Hamilton County
delegation of Republican .legislatots
every week and demanded that they pass
laws against organized labor and in fa
vor of public utilities.
He was in favor of the anti-municipal
ownership bill and everything else that
was backed up by those with money and
against labor.
His record as Prosecutor has been all
in favor of unfair bosses and scab
workmen. Some of his assistants have
law partners who deal in defending
strike breakers and thugs, wliile their
partners are assistants to Campbell, and
in almost every case the scabs arc dis
missed and the union men are punished
or held under bond for trial.
If the National Metal Trades Associa-
tiqn.;wstprosecutQirthex could not ira-
-The c&seftf thn) uninn tininTprc wnc
a uisgrace jo Hamilton county. These
unfortunates were hammered, and fram
ed on from the minute they were arrest
ed until Sullivan confessed. But Camp
bell demanded more; lie wanted the lives
of four other men.
He Gloats Over Labor's Troubles.
Campbell attended a dinner with Judge
Geoghegan and the grand jury at Meck
Ienberg's saloon and gloated over the
indictment of these men, a procedure
almost unheard of in any civilized 'com
munity where law and justice is sup
posed to reign.
Between drinks, Campbell made a
speech and among other things he said :
"If I fail to obtain conviction of the
men who are guilty, out of their own
mouths, for the Christ Hospital murder
before a jury, I will devote the rest of
my time in office to putting these men in
the penitentiary, where they belong."
And to his credit, it may be said, that
he tried to put all five of the men in
the electric chair.
He Advertises Himself.
He did nothing else. When not fight
ing them in court, he was giving inter
views to the daily papers, all of which
reflected on the entire labor movement,
until the Times-Star run a leading edi
torial showing the courage of Mr.
Campbell in doing his supposed' duty
and putting Union men in jail, notwith
standing "that he had been threatened
with political and personal violence if
he prosecuted the painters."
We said then and we say now, that
if that statement is true, Campbell lacks
courage when he did not put those who
threatened him in jail, and if it is not
true, he lacks courage for not correct
ing the Times-Star.
Ask Any Union Man.
The machinists, the riggers, the team
sters, the meat cutters, in fact every
union that came within his reach will
tell you that, it is your duty to defeat
him and put in his place a gentleman
who will give you a square deal.
It has been shown that the law part
ners of his assistants make a business of
defending thugs and strike breakers
with unusual success, and has been a
big help to encourage employcra to im
port, this class of cattle; and many a
fight and breach of the peace would
have been avoided had conditions been
different in the prosecutor's office.
Not Politics.
This is not a political question; it is
one of self-preservation; it means the
life and death of the success of your
demands when the importation of scabs,
thugs and criminals are encouraged to
come into Jour city by the partners of
t:.'xtc:-&LW!i wfv wkw5 .n .v--? ? v'CaHkkw
,is JttViViVt. .Pattai.-.. c&lWK&vhl'mM sTxtur'H'-jw fVlJMHMMHMMfe . J,.-P-.
j .n i r-mr svvt. ji r ,nv.,'ji.7vin HLTirz kvi. ' iv " mMH-:.? z
HON. THOS. M. GREGORY
Democratic Candidate for County Prosecutor.
Mr. Gregory hits always been fair to organized lubor,
ho. voted for' the Workmen's Compensation
and Mothers' Pension bills.
VOTE FOR HIM
Campbell's assistants and take your job
away from you, because you believe you
should have better conditions, and to
see the scabs walk out free while you
or your union must pay the expenses
connected with the matter.
If you arc a Republican and you want
your organization to live, you must
scratch Hughes, Herrick and Willis, and
do not fail to add to that list the name
of John V. Campbell.
A HORRIFIED EMPLOYER.
New Rochclle, N. Y. President Smith
of the Willow Brook milk concern near
ly fainted when he discovered that his
teamsters had organized. He ordered
them to appear before his august pres
ence and told them they had violated
one of the most important rules of the
companv, which provides that there shall
be no labor organization among its em
ployes. Mr. Smitii, in 'reporting this incident
to a newspaper, said his employes "then
went away and we are now trying to de
liver milk as best we can."
MORE PROFIT; LESS WAGES.
Philadelphia. The Remington Arms
Company has begun a "weedingout" pro
cess among the thousands of workmen
who rushed to the new plan at Eddy
stone when the firm began the manufac
ture of army -rifles for the allies.
More than 2,000 wqrkmcn have been
discharged during the last few days.
The company does not contemplate re
ducing its force. The jiresent action is
in the nature of a "housecleaning" to re
duce expenses and increase efficiency of
the working force. More men will be
hired until the force is brought ultimate
ly to 20,00(5 men.
Mayor George Puchta
Offered His Personal Services to Help the Building
Trades Council Unionize All City Jobs. Guy
Hecker Elected Trustee. A Mass of Routine
Business Transacted at the Regular Meeting
of the Building Trades Council. . .
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order by Presi
dent Jos. A. Cullen. The minutes of
the previous meeting were read and
adopted.
The chair announced that the Coun
cil would nrocccd to the election of a
trustee in place of Brother Gasdorf who
had been elected secretary.
Brother Guy Hecker was nominated
and unanimously elected to fill the
vacancy.
The business agents' report was read
and adopted.
Brother Cullen reported that a com
mitte called on MajorPuchta in regard
to all the city work being done by scabs.
The" Major replied that it was not, his
MEAT CUTTERS UNITE.
Pittsburgh, Pa. Meat cutters in this
city have organized and affiliated .to the
Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher
Workmen. The long hours and low
wage of these workers is deplorable and
they now agree that unity is necessary.
JOHN V. CAMPBELL
Republican Candidate for County Prosecutor.
Mr. Cainnbell's present terhi lias not been favor
able to union labor; in fact, be has
been unfair.
. VOTE AGAINST HIM
fault as the city is compelled to give
the contract to thc low et bidder, and
so far as the public utilities are con
cerned they are owned by private com
panies, but the Major offered his per
sonal service in assisting the committee
to have the jobs unionized and instruct
ed the committee to call on him in a
few days and he would report the re
sults of his efforts,
President Cullen made his report as
a delegate to the Ohio State Building
Trades Council, which was ordered re
ceived and filed.
All trades reported business, brisk.
The minutes of the Board of Business
Agents were read and concurred in.
After transacting a great deal of
routine business the Council adjourned.
FISH WORKERS GAIN.
Gloucester, Mass. Fish Workers'
Union has reached an agreement with
employers in this city, securing an av
erage wage increase of $1.25 a week.
The contract will run for one year.
Thos. M. Gregory, whose photo ap
pears on this page, and who is a candi
date on the Democratic ticket for Prose
cuting Attorney of Hamilton County, is
not only a good Iawjer, but is also a
good friend of labor.
Mr. Gregory is a profound student of
go ernmental and social affairs and, as
such, has a wide knowledge of the as
pirations of the common people. He is
a clean young man and will give union
labor a square deal, and that is all that
could be desired by any one.
No better assurance of his fairness
could, be. given than to point to his
record.
As a member of the Eightieth General
Assembly of Ohio, he gave his best
thought to progressive legislation, and
his vote in tavor of the following bills
introduced at the request of the Ohio
State Federation of Labor, railroad la
bor organizations of Ohio and the pro
gressive forces of the State show 'the
caliber of the man:
S. B. No. 8, Mr. Friebolin, relative to
three-fourths of a jury rendering ver-
uicis in civil cases.
No..3S3J1
'age-3
insurance societies to 70 vcars.
s to 70 years. '' j
S. B. No. 48. Mr. Green, known as the
Workman's Compensation Act.
S. B. No. 132, known as the Welsh
Hudson bill, relative to the payment of
wages twice in each calendar month.
S. B. No. 13", Mr. Hass, providing for
the creation of an Industrial Commis
sion to hae supervision over all State
departments relating to labor.
H. B. No. 35, .Mr. Nje, relative tothe
least number of men to be employed on
switch engines.
H. B. No. 49, Mr. Tetlow, relating to
the rights of action in case of death in
a mine."
H. B. No. 30, Mr. Terrell, relating to
liability for wrongful injury or death
and the enforcement of actions therefor.
H. B, No. 100, Mr. Tetlow, providing
for an eight-hour dav on public- works.
H. B. No. 102, Mr. Tetlow, relating
to the construction and size of all ;ca-
boose cars and used by any common
carrier in this State.
S. B. No. 298, Mr. Green, relating to
the construction and size of caboose
cars,was an exact duplicate bill of H. B.
Nd. 102, Tetlow, which was vetoed by
the Governor, with the exception that
it extendedthe time of taking effect of
the act one ear.
H. B. No. 145, Mr. Kilpatrick, rela
tive to the safety appliances upon rail
way locomotives and cars.
H. B. No. 103, Mr. Vollmer, relative
to the employment of femalestand regu
lating their hours of eniplojnieht.
S. B. No. 23, Mr. Green, relative to
weighing and measuring of coal be
fore it is -screened.
S. B. No. 222, Mr. Hass, requiring
locomotive enginers to be equipped with
safe and efficientheadliglits.
"TIPS" ARE COMMERCIALIZED.
- ' " ," 'A
New York. Those people who ex
cuse low wages on the ground that "tips"
make possible a living wag? fpr.hotd
and restaurant emploes ma revise their
viewpoint because of a suit filed in this
city.
A restaurant keeper is sued for $10,000
damages. The plaintiff alleges-that'he
has1 a contract 'to pay $2,500 for the first
jear and $3,000 for the second )ear for
the "privilege" of thq coat room and
wash room. This contract was broken
by the restaurant keeper. All "tips" are
turned over to the plaintiff and the cm
plojes receive a bare pittance, called
wages.
1IUILDERS UNIONS RECOGNIZED.
Astoria, Ore. Contractors in this city
have signed an agreement with the un
ions of carpenters, painters, plumbers
and electricians. The carpenters' rates
will be $4 a da for eight hours ani the
scale of the other locals are recognized.
