PATRIOTS OF AIVIERICA P0'10' action of this iuc of The
Menace represents weeks of patient, pains
taking labor. Now wc ask you to STUDY THE TABULATION KEY CAREFULLY
AND THE NAMES OF THE CANDIDATES IN YOUR STATE. Read every word in
the Special Mention Column dtottd to jew jj.y. In i c'ditit n to ur. extra care in cuting
your ballot for otfices we name in this issue, ccrduct a rigid inm.ica.ion of all candidates
in your community and vote to kttp the nation free fit m the blight of political Romanism.
1HE M
This It Number 2S7
NACE
Usrwra, Mletetwi
out) at, tti
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINE: THE DEADLIEST MENACE TO FREE INSTITUTIONS AND LIBERTY!
SCBDO
RONES LATEST ATTACK M THE PUBLIC
Bishop John Grimes of Syracuse Voices Hierarchy's Deadly Hatred for Democracy's Greatest
Bulwark Alderman Rebukes and Voices Sentiment of Patriotic Millions
Bishop in an Official Arraignment Slanders Non-Sectarian System of
Education While Lauding Parochial Training Fruits of Two Sys
tems as Seen in the Prison and Vice Statistics Refute Rome's
Claims Mexico and Portugal Also Witness Against Rome's Claims
ImM, that Mm ttal pakllattaa'
la l -aal-unara mi Ihriaa laa. ea4
arrraailr aa Bataaa) (iium, rapr
Sua a fcarvaaie iiimM. art imw"
as aitoleaaias. an aak aUrrn at
IK rlir af brracaa la hrkr ra aar
4taappraral u4 ealrt la la .
Ana! fartarrawa that a aa atal -In
aar kalla Ikal laa Aarrrtran Baku
araaal irMa la Iaiaar4 la a. ana la.
la pli af th irfrrae af rnn
aha aiirallr aaaa laal eaia rt. th
aarhkaa ml aar ral ranakll. Kraala
Uaaa lalraaara) laa naM caaaral T
AMrraaa Car hallnlaa. ta Ctlf
af Urnna, Oelaaar tm. Il.
cul statistics of tin New York peni
tentiaries, Iktrt were 2.7 07 Cath
olic win iris and only J.Oi.'t con
vuts representing Protestant , He
brew, and a'l other claors. That i.
The dimple jurt cited are mere
It typical. History aud exjwrienie
aoke refute the libel and alaudcr
l.it h tin? Itomnn Catholic hierarchy
ami the Jruil are Persistently
''iHorth Dakota Furnishes Typical Example of Rome's War on Our Public
Schools While Authorized Roman Catholic Text Books by Rev. James
Conway. S. J., Reveals Anew the Papacy's Implacible Hatred of Our
Splendid Non-Sectarian School System
tto av, there were O'lJ more Cath- bringing against democrarv'a great
jci'ir iiiin'( than rrvresentalives ojtst bulwark, while establishing the
1 aJl other faiths anil those of no i cuntt ntion that wherever Ivom.in
faUh put together. The I at holies : I utholic religion training donn
characteristic llomnn Cath
olic klanderou assault on
our free non-sectarian school
the groatet bulwark of our
republic and the mightiest
iHt of democracy was
ciio fa far mtttr of afar pr mnt
faSy mill mlUmd Pmr ra
!.!, "a 4trtl fatal fa
an. tou baa Ujt It ba t-rmfnr lar
fatbioD ia tbi. inviani ty tor It chil
irra a t.urp Id. fuari.vn of lb -r
rnt. aal aa abat ibr Ui bj nul
do.
j ynar v aonfj earf melt jrnr ra.i.fr,
otcjf r.r aVrrltufcJ. Vf fkrm fa or
tflimtl, tkett Ihrm mill ..f.ii ( aa.'y
tak iafnnfita m(f II farai fu com-
l-fle luerrufuUy ia far fcviarfj or.f.
6kI an n. a frKJKiH. frma'.f at a lU
raif(r farai fa rouf fa .riia aak art
brtrttmti lauJcra TMfy on n,rm AunJ.
.afioa kilkf ainfn Irftiam
t al , Jntarr.t tkt ..;.
't u fo faf a .kjifrm Ui our
that ptoJrrn aioiurrcxify. ia tnoiirrt ..( ! s, andali !ik!i are oistantlv -'in
free
nu'ltinir
niale on Sunday, OiMoIkt 1st. ly
IJcvcrend Binhop John
tinmen in St, Marj- Cathedral, a
rr)orted at lenpth in the Syracuse
I'onl-Slandiird of October 2nd.
llishop Urimoa floqueutly voiced
the Honian Catholic hatred for the
public n-hooln, a hatred not nirpris
inj; in the loyal aubjecta of a foreign
aovereipnty when we renieniUT that
cur public schools have proved the
greatest destroyer of race and re
I'jrioits prejudicen, bigotry and in
tolerance, known to advancing civ
ilization, and have done more than
aught else to promote intellectual
hospitality and loyalty to those
i.rinciplea of free government that
art destructive to the autocratic
claims of kings, c:ars, kaiitn, and
popes.
lit attacking our free mhoo's.
thU distinguished representative of
the papal system charged that: "It
it to suck a system that tie one the
modem monstrosity, the intellect
aal pervert ; to such a system it due
that other evil so prevalent today,
immodesty in woman's dress."
He, further lcled the public
school by charging that they are
villi out moral training. No more
procs or more shameless slander could
le uttered by reckless tongue than
the claim that the American public
schools arc without moral training.
At every step in all the text-books
that can reflect ideals and ethical
teachings, eternal moral verities are
strongly impressed and inculcated.
They are the warp and woof of th-'
peneral educational works by which
the intellect and imagination of the
young are fed. True, these schools
re free from sectarian or religious
dogmatic training, such as makes
the Uoman Catholic parochial
schools a curse and a blightyby pro
moting ana stimulating religious
prejudice and bigotry which blos
soms out in the Roman Catholic
bevcott. censorship, and in frequent
exhibitions of lawlessness and mol-
oeracy, as was seen last April in
Haverhill. Massachusetts, and in
Chicago, Illinois, last March, and
in scores of other places before and
after these typical illustrations were
ciY,en of the legxltmate fruits of
uoman Catholic training, in pro
moting- sectarian prejudice and
hatred of that intellectual hospital
ity that is the glory of our free
schools and the bulwark of our de
mocracy.
The public schools of America
inculcate the broad principles of
moral rectitude and integrity at
every stage from primary to high
school. The IJjinaa Catholic re
l;gious training promotes blind al
legiance to the papal sovereign and
to the Roman fiierarchy, and appar
ently so mnch time is spent in in
culcating this theological training
that Rome fails to teach funda
mental morality, a fact that is
clearly in evidence whenever the
fruits of the two systems are con
trasted. Lesson of Prison Statistics
Take for example, the prison
statistics of Bishop Grimes' own
state, (which were recently treated
at length in The Menace, see Xo.
3i. llere, according to tha oiH-
! in the Kmiirc tate number far less
than one-third of the entire popula
tion. In a uuuhcll wc have thU:
result as shown by the 'Xu ial prison
ftjtitic of 1ji;!iu (I rimes' ute:
Hi prr nttoi- of Catholic
training 3,Tl
I(rrrM'ntntivrt comxin2 itt of
population of the Kmpiiw Mat. .I.M3
Majuritr of moviola rrprrarntinij
Catholic tra'Diui; "'2
Aoii tbi in a Male alter rrprrot.ta
tivri of the Cutliiilir training are lev
tban one tbirj the nbolo population.
Roman Influence and Vice
Again, in morals, Roman Cath
olic religious training has provvd
no panacea in checking vice and im
morality. Witness Sew Orleans,
(which we treated at length iu our
last issue, Xo. Cl.
In the "mo7 Catholic lily in
America," a city where it is claimed
SV per cent of the poju!atioh is
.'(i a u Catholic, avd whiih ha
gloried in the fact that since it?
very foundation, far back in colon
ial days, the Roman dumb has
dominated society, wc find today in
New Orleans, after all these cen
turies of Human Catholic religious
training the largest vice area of
any city ia America.
Uer houses of evil fame if placed
side by side on a single street,!
h-ould have a frontage of about,
five miles, and this "most Cath-'
olic city of America" not only'
legalizes prostitution, but has the.
tvil distinction of brina the onlu
tuiinii ipality uhrv a directory ni
vice, called the Ulue fool-, is pub
lished for the convenience of moral
degenerates and perverts.
Mexico, an Object Lesson
Mexico's civilization grew up by
the side of our Protestant Demo
cratic civilization. It was planted
by the Spanish when Spain, the
richest and jiioi.t powerful nation of
KurojM was industriously destroy
ing all freedom of thought at the
behest of the Roman Catholic church
and her so-called "Holy Iuquii
tion," was in fact opening her
veins and letting out all the Itcst
Mood of the realm. For more than
three hundred and fifty years Hon:e
not only had the religious and edu
cational training of the Mexican
completely in her hands, but until
the revolt of the people, during the
meridian period of the last century,
her constitution prohibited any
other religion being taught Or
preached in Mexico. Today over
05 per cent of the Mexican popula
tion is nominally Roman Catholic.
Mexico affords an excellent ex
ample of what untramnicled Roman
Catholic training has produced iu
the Xew World.
In Mexico, the Roman church,
though fabulouidy rich and well
able to splendidly educate the peo
ple, left the masses in dense ignor
ance and superstition.
lute society, the blighting curse of
"Thee livin-j in g'as hnu-c thodd
i.ot throw ftuiifi.'' Now sip.ee the
bhop has U-en so free to calumniate
the public w hools. even sneering at
and in.tu.'ift'f .liiKTi'ran uoman
h:ad uhich his Icrn educated in
t'oe s, we tci.tuic to akk hint
tirtiuoii .mnh.. or ifirlhoo.), mat
rlnri?it ai-ainM aiioib. r I ailiolu- prt
Tbi' U la.li if lb: riurt ra arte cn
in tic I m. 'Mo ail d'a-l tirnnl fria
for rrptrii,l r l 'ih. Urn pla nlifT wa a
I'tiUjr l.ttlc g.il lir the banic wf Marv
!. Th- .li'fi-n.lar.t n J'ath.f
! M' J In n I .ri. h i.f t niiirl!l!l. Afr. 1 1 IC I"
li. f in ilir i iiiiininwa pBT, l nr k"i
bow he accounts for the IllimlKr of j appcarr. ib i-nnrruttu avuiont Hpv
ict rrt; if u to net, m ''ti m tknt w I
Am ,1... .11.. u - .1 . .
r, l-l.uiriunir, unu ,kf mmoJfttm In nd n , rfi,J; ,f i,
bigotry follows as a necessary result fu In .- mrom, fa.it re k.ar of man
id the t aihings of Rome that "t tlwt kuk tmaUA b tke
there i but one true chunh, thill"," rrr""' " t '
the vo;e trhen he suraks . -tstor . ' """" ' ...
It is to be great! v regret tod that
the bishop in dosing liis rikles
hUl on the public schook did Hot
Mii'r.u of church and state, and the c'v ,Il "n".",, ,''' rwent-
i rusliinir out of ienv. frei-1 i.me ht.i '.' - our mire h.h s on
of the flofk is infallible, and fTrnt it
is the duty of the chun h icnrneier
she is in power to tnsu-t on the
fne spiii h, ami uutranuneled fice
assembly.
The Bishop's Attack
Kishop (J rimes' sermon was, ac
cording to the 1'ixt-Standard, main
ly devoted to iimsting on paroihial
training fur the children of the dio
cese. We quote from that paper:
Thr oi-rninu of tlie tirw pariHliial
M-boot, the Lisbon ssi'l, aCTurJi'il Ibe cliil
ir.'n tif the parih the mrmi whcrrlir '
they coiilj oliLain Ibe fivprr ixnd tt 1
filvrcttxo.
charges of blaikmail. Then we
would have been in a position to
nave ascertained whither or not tin
iug to the surfai-e in cmmi lion
with Roman Catholic prie-t, in
jute of tlie nation-wide 1m man
t atholic censorship oer the pn".
and the strenuous cltort of tlie
hieratihy t buh up t thing
that aje a shame t our iviliation;
It is Hot our purpose to dwell on
this unpleasant siibjett further than
to tall t.'ie bishop's utteutmn to tie
iiuirt records relating to two psciit
caes whiih in sj'ite of tli' censor
ship have ioiiip l.) I'liUlic notice.
(hi N-ptrnil.fr l.'lli of the prewnt Tor,
maiornr 01 llicse alleireil crinnna lather Ihumaa Kinc of M. Mary a
Were the fruits of public or panx h- fa'hlie ebun h at Mmlera, falilorni.i
ial education. Whether, in fact, if
crrti.l I ri h, ibatg ng h.in with aatili
an. latter a.Hh the intetil to ratirh.
The jury brfoi hih Ihia wa'
IrirJ pmniptty fouvirt.J tb pru-a!.
As Ix-th theae priests are listed in
the ollicial Catiiolie directory as
Catholic priests in the I'nifed Stales.
t!.e bishop will hardly i barge these
olTeiiM-s as due to the lm k of linr..l
training in our public nun-rex tarum
hoo!.i.
As a matter of fact, these and mi
il.ir olTi'iisi' that are so painfully
ill evidence todav, lire Imt lieW ill
the story of the Roman church.
History shows that they have Im-c n
in evidence at every stage of her
irg this palpably fa!se ,0 Idle,
Hut since sutii is the cure, we are
going to gie our readers the poi
live, irrclutalile, authoritative evi
dence of Rome's implacable hatred
of our svstcm as shown in her au
teaching. This will also
serve to show why Rome wants ti
riMit nut the public school and sub
sl.tute the foment school as M-en in
the atiot e artide from the Fargo
Courirr-Seu . Kvery ihild in the
(iiM-i,l shx. would uoubtlesa hava
l is. nr her mind x.i-oned aguinst
otn splendid public achod system
bv the viiioiis teachings found Ik
low.
Relentless War on Free Schools
In -The Rights of Our Little
Ones, or First Principles in Edu
cation" iu caiai hethii al form by
l.'cv. Jame Couwav, S. J., Canisiua
College. 1'iiilTalo, New York, pub-
they are convicted they would go to
swell the Uoman Catholic n.ajurily
or f'i I'rotestiint minority in the
itjte penitentiaries.
Those in Glass Houses
There i an old and lioniclv sav-
"Io not Irt j-nur rhitilren kaie the de- i il g that is Very applicable here.
lished bv Renzigers I'.ros., printers
a arreslcl for a nra. tai uary olten-e, .,n ,,.,, and at times, as during the I to the Holy Apostolic See, we have
7 '' ,,,ri:r "'"i 1,'enais.ance or,,., immorality dark-'lho- folio
owing as part of the author-
tDoi.KI. I-, furrix yrur. ,..u am. en.. , ... . , . i;l , I.,,,,,. ..f M. .,. in ranl
At the branny, thia iinfor-1 s"""r,i in i" wr i""iui e i .....s ... i..
to our spieiiiiia non-Miiarian ir
sdioids. The questions and the
pages on which each appear are as
follows:
Papal Hands in Treasury to Elbows
a amrner.
lunate rhill alli-pii that the crime liwl 0 Lome, emphasizing the fundi!-tiei-n
comniittol on Iii-cemli-r i'4tb f tnrntal weakness of a reiiious
last vrar. th. eve of th ret mas), ly frfl-M; fjlut ,.xat, dogmatic tll's.l
thu man who claims t'i stan.t in tlie; ' .i .
; .1 lit I': fjf'rnfli- nrj u'yiuil IV I'lf
fid.'on and the conscience, ia the
spiritual lifr, inl'lligence and imag
ination of the individual iu such a
wiiv n t.i iletelno sound morality
phice of lio.l. Th. pricit baa Uta hell
mi'li-r l. ml.
timr di)t litter aiimhcr crime ajfninst
Br CILDtnT o.
NATIONS. Vlri.leit ef IK trm trm Uttrn Imcm.
ml lilUt Uuliaii.(. W .h, i, .:i,. li.
We rorncllv nrpe trry rcailrt of T"K Menu t to mrefully peniae the fotlmrinir ntisi,.al fat spc inllv prepare,)
for ua by Juilge CilbiTt O. Nationa. They aie lypiial ol the last appropriation winch limtie is ilinwn, f nun the pul.lir
treasury in nation, city, an. I stnte lor the buildiUK an. I ramifii'ation of ibc Io.iimoi t uth.. c I eryr. h. This is cU arlv in
violation of the pirit, if not the letter, of our constitution a bub recopn'.-c nn .l.unh. an, I is ii..-. to show no n'i inl
favoia to any faith or creel. Furthermore, It sboi.lil l ii'itui.ilcieil thnt this n.oi.ey l!irpvlv i.iiii to I. ml. I up, .tn ni;lh
en, anj Intrench a hierarchy which wars aamat freedom of apeecb, preea, anil awcnilily. our puMie non sectarian h hw.l
syMem, and which altvajt anj in every IuihI, av soon aa it betomea the iununatini; powi-r, ilcmaiulj the union of church
an, I state. Autrmin of the t.Uitwwl Uva'd.
Many uilliona of ilollara are appropriated annuully to
Roman Catholic institutions from the toaauty of tha l intel
Slates an.J the triar.iriei of tha variou state anil ntie.
Tbe papal hierarchy ami institution ate rcii Hicj; va.t a l
ibtional monetary fuvor in tbe i icniptinn of l.'oman Catholic
property from tajiation. Tbe direct appropriation to these
mst tut ion in New Y:k City alone cxi-rcda tl'.ii'iu.ono a cai
Tbe foncrul pul.Iic will be .ccialU intcicsird in tin
npproiratinn au.l oilier tinaiii iul Iom Ijcih ilelivtn'ii int
Uoman Cntbolic cotlcra out of tbe ln;isiiijr of tlie 1'nitcl
State by acts of contfrc.-s. The follim.n aie i few of the
items to appropriated by the recent avisiou of the pietctit'
congress:
Ts Raman raikallt rkeat aaaaf III Slaat Indian
aaarr Ik Imtimn AwawciaiHa Bill. H M UJH I !H,WH
Ta koiaaa Catballc Prir Hixpilai anar Oitlrlcl
af Calanaia Apranalwa Bill. H R lj"l t.lN.O
Ta Kamaa I alaallc t.farariawa I'alvvrtllf Haapilal
aaarr flanrlrl af Calaaikw Apprapnaiaia Bill, II.
C liJJI I.MIII
T St. Aaa' lafaal Avlaa mnirt Diilrkl af Calaai
fcia Apprearuiiaa Bill. U. R. Ii)!l .
A statement in writing recently oh a ncl from tbe office
of the secretary of the treasury show that the following
aggregate sums bave been appropriated from tbe treasury ol
the I n i ted States to tbe various Komkti t'ntholic institution
mentioned within the term of years specified in connection
with each institution)
rrataJaar Haitl. IIM-IIII II JJT.iH S
Hum af Gaaa S.pKrS. Il ll Is.171
Si. Aaa' lafaat Atrlaai. IMI-ISI :l.?J SI
SI. Kaa laaaalnal Stkaal. Il7-ll 41. tit M
SI. Jaatph Orka Aiflaia. llll-IIN .Ttl.M
Taul tl.itl.tll.il
It ia prohaUe that but few people even among thoa ll
irjr in New Vork t'lty hare an adceute conception of fie
depth to which Kome hat thrurt her band into the treamry
ef that creat city. Tbe following appropriations of public
fund to lioui&a Catholic institution! apj-car to the ordinance!
of 191 j:
I
111. Tclrr' llaapltal
M. (aikaila' llxplitl
M. Jmhm'm l aa llan ll Itaapilal
SI. n' Ha lar I'llcadlrM Waaicn
Hi. Joba'a oaila
HI. mrri.l i Uotpiial In lh Cli af N. V.'
SI. Aalnaar' Hrapilal
. Jnarpk Hnaplial lOarrn!
M. Jaarpk Hospital (. . '.
at. Iranria' Mrapilal . ".
farrra Hrarl Urpkaa Aavlora
Hi. Aiaika llaiar far CbiMrra
U Mrrkarl' tWrar
81. Jaarek' Atria
bl. Iraiaa' Haiar far Jarrml Drllaqaral. Oiamk
af Hmm af Oaa bhriiWra
BC Malarkr'a llara
SI. A(rwa HMpltal far Crlpplra am! Alrpiral ( kildrra .
SI. Viacaal' II imp il a I lBark Kicfcmaaal
Th Haapllal af Iki Hair tamilf
Tka I ani af ikr Si.irn al Mrrcr in Uraaklfa
8l. Ckilalapkrr'a Hrtat
hud lobuit ( hara tes.
Condemnation of Free Schools
Tluuiirli the bicrarchv is very
iutie in Irving to man thiw verv
pilhlie Schools which she ilenounces
with Uoman Catholics, and though
1 1'iotcstants are continually asked
; to place subjects of the JmM' ill
commanding jilaees in our school
'stftein, Koine is waging a ceaseless.
ilotermined and deadly warfare on
ithis mighty melting ot of modern
ibnior racy. All the clouts of the
hierarchy and the wa ioty-eniieat-iiig
influences nf ti .lesuits are
a nied either nt KOMANTZlMi tII
1 1 ..)
tl.i M i
.0.0u
I. Il 01 I
Jl.l!.
I.S
4 1. SO (
4. !.!
lt;.s :
12. I ,
.jh !
j in
i.i
4.t t;
i
J1.0 '
II I.M. .
i ' a II 1 ionics to our lies;; a copy
ii..i-.. . I (,urier-. rvs of Fargo, North 1'a
l.j i , ...
i. o Lota, vlncli ci.n!:iin a'l iii'cuiint o
Page 24 (,'ucstion A
"'oca Cim.ii(ii)H Im a itkin the Scofe
of ci i'i tia.'iorif u?"
" i:. hi -all. .ii iliMii net lie within tha
coki of civil avithoritv, wherrfore the
stiite caiiiiot. nithnut violating higher
and li.'lii r ligl.t, usurp the right and die
iharj;e the duly of educating the young."
I'ligc CI (j.iestion 41.
" H lu.t tfjli't Jit the flute i lo'dfe y
wurfini) the work of tdm atum ' "
1 1 v uaiirping the woik of education,
the state not only thwart the intent of
the Creator, but alau violate
(a) The oi'ul ujM uf the child
In enjoy the ciuiation intcuded by the
Creator.
(li) The dnmrttxc ri'ikt of the par
cuts to ediic.ite their offspring in the way
it Ms in U nt to thi'in;
(c) e (hall sec, the i'ltise HAl
of the ihiinh to distlu-rge tbe educa
tion mission ititrtititcd to her by ber
Divine founder."
HKSTKOYINC OIK FHKK
St'IIOOLS which by teaching the
vouiiir to read both sides of all great
rpicstion, and t i think f r thcni-l
. i. ... :i.. ....t .... ii... i.. .1.1 i
s,,,., iiii'i-ssi,,., wcccns ,. .,: , 1(n tlml Us WMU j.rown i)t0 f,,or
of the inonan hial. antocratical h'.er- lftd it ongm in those countries where
I'age 5 Vmstion 42.
" H'hat itvte rue to the state monnpolf
of fiiuralioa to common modern
txmftf"
"Thi modern policy of state e.luea-
archv over the rising generation.
As wc write this artiile there
to our lies'; a copy of the
lalal ll.lli.IH.il
Statute enacted by the Icgislntnre of Maryland show
tbe following appropriations of publx funds to tinman Cath
olic institutions in that Hate for tbe year 1910:
tin! ecclts.iistiial institutions were robbed
of their tcniMiralitics by i'roteataot gov
ernment. Nidi a ilecadenco of educa
tion followed this wholesale plunder of
the church that the governments gradual-
ly found it ncecssury to erect pttblie
ithe effort to close the public school s-h."u at .",,,c fMT'
I . . . ' , I stitutiona thev considered thcmitcl et
I in a certain lotnmun.'y so as to . JUB(lli,.(MD s,v Iv controlling
(omp,l all the ilnldcn t attend aj,. .j.-,Q.,ct i..n 4.1
Rae af Caa4 Shpkrr4
Naa af Ikr baaa skrpkara (Calarrai
Al. Marr' laalrlal arkaal
Ilklala Srslrr af Prariarar
Si. Anikaar'a Orphan Aarlaa
U I.IUaar Ji'a II alarad)
M. Jaarak' flaaia af lafaatr
! Marv' FrMl Orphan Aarlaai
M. Marr' Hial lar I lllr I alarrSl Bar
s. Prirr riarirr alaraa laaarlrlal Stkaal ....
t. laraal'a lafaat Aarlaai
St. VlaraaC Mai Orakaa Aarlaai
M. KaiSrna't Haat far Calarr Girl
Sllrrr I raa Hrrar far Cpllraisr
t. Mma Oar Narwrf
Si. Atae' Haapital
Si. Jaarpb'l
SI. I aar' llaapltal af Rat'larar CHf
Si. Iraara txirr bhal far Ural ai4 Oaaik...
bi. Jafca' CalWf
convent ffb'iiii. a s Iimd win re the j
nunds of the (hildren will be twi
ts i which, as bus bii-n pointed out, ar?
IS! 'the mightiest bulwark of our free
41 Illn-rili-V rllii I iVio
Ills' ls a tail'
against which Koine i
iiiadlv warfare. S.iv.s
institution
waging a
the laiUt
hat we
have witnessed in Mexico during the ; rihiw r.aaraa swn mi
past four year, i, 0 th, frvxt c '
.OM-jfrfari(in education, but the re
sult of centuries of Roman Cath
olic religious training.
Portugal, an Object Lesson
Ia like manner Portugal, before
the recent revolt against kingcraft
and priestcraft afforded a similar
example of Uoman educational train
ing ia the Old World. At the time
of the recent revolution ia that
country westero civilization was
amazed when the facta were given
to the public relating to the general
illiteracy in Portugal after centuries
ol Iwocua Catholic education.
Arrlaa af Ik Sltlrra af St- Deraiaic
Aarlaa el St. Vlanal er Paal ....
A aaa. far Brfrkraair. CkiMna aaa Yeaaf Clrl. Hja
af lb Half laaillr)
falkalrc Haaa Barraa
(thai .aarlaa tkartata
Ih Uktrra af Braaklra
klla
Laar af Ik fUaarr
Haaa al Uaa yarpaarw
Inalltalraa af Man
Maaieaarr Skilara. Tklra Orlrr af Si. franrla
Mawraa af Ik lawacalata Vlrira far lb Pralactiaa af
Haaialraa aa4 Urmliai CkiMrta
Marr laiaiaraUi Haapital f
Naar Yard Catkallc Fratactarp
Kaaiaa Caikalic Or kaa Aarlaai Saclrl. Si. Jaarpk a F-
aala Orpkaa Aarlaa aaa 8l Jaka' Haai
Has a a Catrvallr Haaa af Ca4 Sarpkrre
SU Mark'a Haaphal af N. Y. C
Su Ckrlatapkn' Haapllal far Rakla
Marf' tra. Haapllal et City af Braaklra
Ttt 141.171
The annukt report of the Oommiwlonef of Finance for
the city of New Orleans for the year ending DcrmUi 31,
1915, ihow! th following r:ms paid out of the treasury of
that ett to Hon. aa Catholic institutions during the year
!. . covered by that reporti
i.
UHM
J JJJ JJ ( ."onid against the public schools,
it
l.o
l.sa
.
t.M t
I. a I
3 j a i
Sa
JJ JV Citirier-XeH in its edition of
',eee ()i tolier 4th, 1010!:
C Jutlge Chas. A. Polliak ia district
) at court yesterday morning is'iifd a niao-
ilnmus oi.lrr requiring r red Itriinctte,
president of th: rural school district
ptiuthwrst of Wild Kice, to show cause
wh he should not turn over the district
!. s
.
1 HI
ll.MS.t
Itt.SM M
.iet
it.e at
i: mi a
I41.S
I :.
nr.
I it.tet te
Iti.tt .
t.saetl
Iti.ste.tl
III M
It.sa
l.mse
lis '
ttjte-te
ral lafaat af Jrl Crark
' Fraaala Orphaa Aarlaai Iraaiacalata Caaraptln
Haa af l.aa Shrphare OirHj' Brfarauiarr) ...
I alaa H ar af th Hal Faaillf
SWrra Hrarl Orphaa Aarlaai
Su Alphaa Aarlaai
H. Aaa' Aartara
a. Jaarpk Bar' aaa GOV Aarlaa
ta. Mar' Orpkaa Bar' Atria
St. vacant Haul
St. Vlaeral Infant Inha
St. Jaka Barrkaiaa Aarlaa
St. Marr' Aarlaa Llttla akrlr af Ik Pear
Ttal
"Unci urc Idc remits of this syfTtm
of ttnte or pkhtu- r,liiritwn'"
"This system of state or puldie esluca-
tinn naturally ns.ilis id the niott serious
moral, social and religious evils. "
Tae (Question 44.
"Is thu ttatxmcnt tornr out b) C9
pmmrrC
"Thi statement i conSnncJ by ei-
ierience ahercver the pystem has pre
vailed for any length of time."
"(a) The introduction of state edu
cation hat ln everywhere attended by
aa enormous increase of crime, which
cannot l attributed to any other cause.
In our own country proportionally by fat
the greater share ef crime is committed
not tiv the illiterate, or liv foreimiera. but
school to me older memijer oi uie ooar.i by those who enjoy al the blesamgs of i
so thnt it can he rrmnred to a Catholic
convent alout tao miles distant.
"Here we have a concrete illus
tration of what Home is utrivirg lo
oo even in this early staj of her
campaign to "make America domi-
nautly uoman ( athohc. In fpitcjail tho-se
pul.l.c Kb.Hil education; and, what ia
most surprising of all, as has teen statis
tically proved, tlie increase of crime haa
kept even pace with the efforts and ex
penliture made for public location. "
"(b) Tbe leader of anarchists, com
munist, socialists, nuolista and. in short.
alio
All of this property escape! taxation, which near., that the tat payera ef the District of Columbia
have to bear the burden of this exemption in lncrcwe taxes. What is true of the District of Columbia is
true of the Catholic properties throughout the nation.'
. Do you consider it wire or in the Interests of cit liberal government te ote for Roman Catholic
politiciani who will support measures for the further enrichment of the sectarian institutions of the Uoman
ihieiaxchj. and i4 further enrich a mighty machine which ia in direct opposition to our free democracy?
ii tt
I.IM a
t a
?7?Vc.f atien illustration ns the nU.ve i order and disturb tbe peace or na
l."tv" " - " " .U. . .V.
ii1'0 numerous others that might tie
ii! cited, there are Uoman Catholics
who doubtless subscribe to the Jesuit
maxim that "The end justifies the
means."
True, there are Uoman Catholics
who doubtless subscribe to the Jesuit
maxim that "Tbe end justifies the
means"' who deny that Home is war-i
il. 1.1 : - - .1 t. .l !
ring vu uie puouu
a a ft
t.ta
1'IM
te
.1 IUH.H
endanger the social
I) tbe pe
I tions, are for the most part the out
growth of state or public school educa
tion." "(c) The same might easily
shown of the luke warm in religion, of
agnnatica, and professeJ infidels of the
school of Ingeraoll."
Page IT Question 4..
" ITAol are the effects of state rtfscav
txon on eittiu-iilioa i) pieral,
"While slate education removea Ulit-
achools, and W. P". mT.V "
lv aw a-AW at TnTrVwS ri 1 fl rv t Ti 1 1 aTa. 1 1'fVlf i
V41V i 3 al CJ j'lW ' a t s. s uv v a ava,-
estants ao physichologizeU bv the
Jesuits that they are found parol-
Continued on Tage 2, Column 2)
