DAI LT
rm
VOL. XX NO. 186.
HAHKE, ' VERMONT, SATUHDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CEXT.
THE BARE
MES
A PEG NEARER .
TO BAPAUME
British Advanced on Their
Way to Bapaume
To-ck
U. S. TROOPS FIRED UPON.
MAIN HIGHWAY
FROM ALBERT
Ground Gained Was Near
Butte de Warlen-court
London, Oct. 21. The British on the
Somrae front have made additional head
way in their push toward Bapaume along
the main highway from Albert, according
to to-day's announcement by the war
office, which records the gain of ground
near Butte de VV arlencourt.
FOOD CONFERENCE
IN BERLIN TO-DAY
Main Problem Is How to Provide the
Empire with Potatoes for the
Winter.
Berlin, via London, Oct. 21. A con
ference in which all the leading ministers
of the German federal states will 'par
ticipate will be held in Berlin to-day.
Invitations for the meeting have been
issued by Imperial Chancellor Von Beth-mann-Hollweg.
The conference will deal
with the food problem, mainly with the
question of providing the empire with
potatoes for the winter.
RUSSO-GERMAN PEACE.
There Were No Casualties on the Amer
lean Side.
San Antonio, Tex., Oct. 21. American
troops and Mexican clashed near Sun
lose, in the Big Bend country Thursday
afternoon, according to a report receiver:
by General Fimston lust night from Col
Joseph Gaston, commander ot the run
trlct. The Hirtit lasted forty-rive min
utes. Xo Iohhcs were sutTered by tl
Americans and information is lacking re
garding loss among the Mexicans.
Colonel Gaston's report said a band
of aliout thirty Mexicans opened tire on
a detachment composed of twenty-three
men of the sixth cavalry and Texas
National Guard cavalry squadron, en
gaged in patrol duty between Presidio
and Buidosa. Lieutenant Ciidingtoii, of
the Texas squadron, commanding the
troops, ordered his men to return the fire,
A vigorous exchange ot shots vontin
lied for 45 minutes, the Americans and
Mexicans firing in skirmish formation
from covered positions on either side of
the Rio Grande. Information trom lol
Gaxton did not indicate that the United
States troops crossed In pursuit of the
Mexicans. After the fight Lieutenant
Cndington returned to Rudiosa with his
command.
Whether the Mexicans were de facto
government troops or members of a ban
dit band, was not known by General
Funston last night.
Washington, Oct. 21 General Ftinston
reporting last night on the exchange of
shot across the border at San Jose, said
that late reports reaching him indicated
the American troops were fired on "by
drunken Mexicans."
The dispatch made no mention of firing
by the American troopers and said there
were no casualties on either side. Olh-
cials here were inclined to attach little
significance to the incident, believing that
the irresponsible band had blundered on
the detachment of Americans, and had
withdrawn after firing a few desultory
shots. There was nothing in General
Funston's dispatch, it was said, to indi
cate a prolonged engagement.
Is Predicted by Prof. Muensterberg Be
fore Next Spring.
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 21. Hugo Mu
ensterberg, professor of psychology at
Harvard university, in an address last
night before the International Polity
club of the university asserted he had
.been reliably informed that Russia and
Germany would sign a separate peace be
fore spring and that there would be an
alliance between Germany, Russia and
Japan.
"I know from reliable sources," he said
' that Russia is out of joint, is half
bankrupt, is starving and will be ready
for a separate peace before spring. The
result is to be an alliance between Ger
many, Austria, Russia and Japan. Japan
and Russia, are pushing towards this
combination and an overwhelming ma
jority ofGerman people would welcome
it to-dufy.
"It a the old Bismarckian tradition
I -ti111 JGermany ought to be the mend ot
RiMfia and that such an alliance would
w . ....
De ner surest protection.
"If we really want to bring peace for
a generation there is no hope but to
bring Germany and England to an un
derBtanding before Germany and Russia
have made peace and formed an alliance
Neither the English nor the German peo
ple want this peace to-day, but they
ought to want it, for once the new am
ance is formed it will seek to crush the
ambition of England for world power,
"Some neutral groups in Europe are
seeking to bring about this understand
ing between Germany and England: Yet
real success can be expected only if the
government of the Inited States under
takes this master work.
3 CARLOADS OF EGGS
SEIZED BY MILAN
Italian Government Takes Steps to Pre
vent Speculation and Will Fix
a Maximum Price.
GET ORDER TO
EXHUME BODY
District Attorney Cassidy to
Determine if Rose Wil
letts Was Murdered
14TH VT. REUNION.
Thirty Have Banquet at Middlebury
Erwin Hyde President.
Mirlrllebury, Oct. 21. About .'10 mem
bernof the 14th regiment of volunteers in
the Civil war, with a number of invited
guests who served in other regiments,
helrl a reunion in Grand Army hall in the
JYOUTH SLAIN
OUT HUNTING
TO GET OUT THE VOTE.
uy bio,k yesterday "wnuon. lnn.-r Everett Tanner, Aged 14, of
was served at 1:30 o clock by t he ladies . ' " '
VERMONT OFFICERS
TO ASSIST HIM
Miss Willetts, Shot in Bur
lington, Was Pronounced
a Suicide
Marshfield Got Charge
in the Breast
Gloversville, N. Y., Oct. 21. District
Attorney William J. Cassidy appeared
before County Judge Frank Talbot here
to-day and secured an order to exhume
the body of Miss Rose D. Willctt, wno
died in Burlington Sept. 13 as the result
of a revolver wound. lr. B. H. Stone
and State's Attorney T. E. Hopkins of
Burlington were expected here this aft
ernoon to be present at the autopsy to
determine whether the girl was murdered
or committed suicide.
The body of the girl was found outside
the office of her brother-in-law, John E.
Deyette, a Burlington coal dealer, and
the Burlington ofheials pronounced it
case of suicide.
of William 1'. Russell circle, No. 5, Ladies
of the G. A. K., after which there was
a business meeting and a caniptlre. An
address wag given by Norman B. Doug
las of Shelburne, Mass,, and brief re
marks were made by several comrades.
Ira If. LaFleur of Middlebury gave the TTTftTTCT' PTTM
address of welcome ami prayer was of- A
fered by Rev. Mr. Blackburn of Crown INTO A BOAT
i oint, r. i. in ma Dusiness session
these officers were elected: President
Erwin Hyde of Rutland; vice-presidents,
ilmnn 1 la V tit Afa nMi na Tlnnnl A A
Walker of St. Albans, Smith Jamieson of Young Companion Sought
.Manchester, A. J. JJickinsen of Jienson,
Otis Abbey of Middlebury, Harvey. Brook-
ins of Castleton, Anson right of Bris
tol, James Fiske of Rutland, H. B. Allen
of Pittsford, and John Beaumont of Cen
ter Bennington j secretary and treasurer,
F. H. Sheppard of lair Haven. The next
reunion will be held in Rutland about
October 21, 1917.
Aid, but Injured Boy
Soon Died
ONLY FOUR STATE CASES
Marshfield. Oct. 21. Everett Tanner,
aged 14, son of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Tan
ner of this village, was almost instantly
killed yesterday afternoon by the acci
dental discharge of a shotgun while out
hunting with Victor Pitkin, aged 0, and
the son of O.ias Pitkin. The boys, carry
And All Were Disposed of By Pleas of
Guilty.
St. Albans, Oct. 21. Franklin county im? tho P,n Bn1 a traP' went to a l"""1
court took final adjournment this morn- P" Tanner farm, located about a mile
ing after a session of only 18 davs. The anu quarter irom this village on tne
September term opened the 18th. takintr road to Cabot
a recess Sept. 30 to Oct. 5. Convening On arriving at the pond, they made
that day at 10 o'clock in the morning,
another recess was taken in the after-
I preparations to go out on the pond after
wild ducks which are accustomed to feed
TO EXAMINE BODY.
State's Attorney Will Investigate Ru
Mors of Murder in Willetta Girl Death.
Burlington, Oct. 21. Contrary to hi
first impression that there would be no
autopsy on the body of Miss Kose U
letts, who met death by shooting in
the coal yard of John h. Deyette, the of'
tieial report being that she shot and
illcd herself after attempting to take
he life of John E. Deyette, her sister's
THE RIVAL CLAIMS
Both Republican and Democrats Sure of
Victory.
New York, Oct. 21. A total of 300
electoral votes assured for Charles E.
Hughes with fifty more probable and an
other 55 possible, was claimed for the
Republican presidential candidate in a
statement issued last night by Charles
XV. Farnham, manager of the Hughes
campaign tour. There are 631 votes in
the electoral college.
Mr. Farnham said he based his conclu
ions on observation of conditions in all
parts of the country. Among the states
lie placed in the "sure" column were Ohio,
New lork, Illinois and inrliana.
After a series of conferences, Vance C.
McCormiek, Democratic national chair
man, said last night:
"It's all over; the president is reelected."
MAN AND WOMAN
WERE FOUND DEAD;
MAY BE MURDER
Authorities are Investigating a Mystery
at Rutland, Mass. Bodies Were
Some Distance Apart.
Rutland, Mass., Oct. 21. The authori
ties to-day were investigating the pos
sibility that the two bodies found yes
terday were victims of a murder. One
body was discovered in the woods near
North Rutland and Princeton and was
identified as that of James Ryan, who
disappeared early in September. The
medical examiner said the jawbone was
fractured. A loaded shotgun lay beside
the body. The second body, that of a
woman, wn unearthed by a farmer while
digging in rubbish near the barn.
An autopsy revealed they might have
been strangled. The only clue to identi
fication was that a woman employed on
the farm early last summer disappeared
in July. Her husband, a farmhand, said
the woman had gone away and the next
day he left town.
authorities at Milan have seized 100 car
containing 15,000,000 eggs as a result of
a campaign to prevent speculation. Mil
an, Rome and other centers have been
eggless the last week, notwithstanding
the existence of immense stocks. It js
expected the government will fix a tun
form price of three cents each throughout
Italy and seize and sell all eggs at this
price,
Rome, via Paris, Oct. 21. Municipal husband, State's Attorney Hopkins left
last night by automobile with Drs. B. H
Stone and C. F. Whitney of the stat
laboratory for the purpose of having an
autopsy performed at Gloversville, N. l
on the body, which will be exhumed from
the grave in that city where it was bur
led following the Bhooting here,
The state's attorney communicated
with the authorities at Gloversville yes
terday and was informed that the autop
ay would be held to-day. In the car last
night which took the state's attorney
and the two doctors from the state labo
ratory was J. J. Enright, who with V. A,
Bullard has conducted the case for Mr,
Deyette the past week in which Mrs,
Deyette finally won, by order of court
the temporary custody of her little three
year-old daughter, as well as temporary
alimony. The members of this party re
maincd in Rutland last night and left
this morning for Gloversville, where the
autopsy will be performed immediately
upon their arrival, according to infornia
tion gleaned from the state's attorney
last evening.
MONTPELIER
Handsome Memorial Window Is Being
Placed la Bethany Church.
KAISER ON FRENCH FRONT.
Decorates Gen. von Einen, Commander of
Saxon Army.
Amsterdam. Oct. 21. Emperor William
Visited the front in Champagne on
Wednesday of this w-rk, according to
the Cologne Gazette, and presented Gn.
Ttn Einen with the laurels of the order
Four le Merite.
A new memorial window is being in
stalled in Bethany church. It Is a beau
tiful specimen of decorative art worked
out in the celebrated American Favrille
glass. The window is In memory of Miss
a a meiong memoer of the
church and daughter of the late Denni
son Taft, the builder of the church. The
work on the window is being done by
the Kimberly company of New York,
who constmcted the magnificent Cross
window installed some four vearg aero,
The theme of the window is "The River
of Water of Life." and is taken from the
22d chapter of Revelation. It describe
the angel showing the Apostle John, who
spent his last days upon, the Island of
Patmos, the glories of the heavenly land.
The eeene lies where St. John says of
the angel, "He shewed me a pure river
of water of life, clear as crystal, proceed
ing out of the throne of God and of the
Lamb. In the midst of the street of it,
and on either side of it wag there the
tree of life." St. John, who is clad In
the garb of a pilgrim, is seated at the
feet of the angel, looking wistfully to
ward the setting sun, whence flows the
river of life. The angel is pointing west
ward, as though he would direct the aged
pilgrim toward the river he must pass
ere he enter into eternal happiness, and
at the same time reminding him that
God has provided a tree of life hat is
for the healing of the sorrows and sins of
men. The coloring of the window is ex
ceedingly beautiful, being warm and full
of suggestion. The evening light, for the
window is appropriately placed upon the
western side ot the church, adding its
own suggestiveness to the meaning of
the theme. This window is one of a se
ries of windows eventually to be installed
in the church illustrating the history of
inspiration.
In connection with the electrocution
yesterday of Peter Marcotte it is inter
esting to note that his uncle, Peter Mar
cotte, was killed just 35 years ago this
month on Franklin street, his neck being
broken when a pair of horses started sud
denly.
narry Corse has gone to Wyandotte
Mich., where he will spend the winter
witn his wile, who has been visiting
there with her parents while Mr. Corse
wa-s on duty in Texas with Co. L of New
port.
Funeral services for Martin Spellacv
whose death occurred Wednesday night
t his home, 53 North street, were held
t 9 o'clock this morning at St. Augus
tine's church, Rev. P. J. Long officiating.
The bearers were John McMahon, Joseph
Murley, John Keefe, George Quinn. The
body wag taken to Waterbury for burial
in St. Andrew's Catholic cemetery.
The funeral of Peter Marcotte. who
was electrocuted Fridav forenoon at the
corner of Pearl and Winte- streets, will
be held Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock
from St. Augustine's church. Rev. P. J.
Long officiating. Burial will be in the
Catholic cemetery.
Mrs. Lulu Demeritt. who has been em
ployed at Lowell, Ma-s., for several
months, arrived in the city last evening
for a visit with friends.
Accompanied by a small crowd of
rooters, the Montpelier high school foot
hall squad. Coach S. A. Dale and Man-
sger Jangraw, went this morning to St.
Albans, where one of the tnwt important
games in Vermont intereholatie circle
this season will be played this afternoon.;
High school is much strengthened by!
Pike, last rear's eeminarv fullback, and'
if confident of defeating St. Albans.
A. W. LOCKLIN IN TROUBLE.
Cashed Check for $2,200 Received from
Sale in Father's Estate.
iNortnneid, net. zi. mere were no
new developments this morning in the
case brought against Arthur W. Locklin,
who wag held yesterday on the charge of
larceny and placed under bail of $3,000
for a hearing Monday.
After the southbound noon train had
left the Northfield station yesterday Dr
William H. Mavo was advised that Lock
lin, who was administrator of the estate
of his father, A. J. Locklin, and for whom
Dr. Mayo and M. E. Cha-se were bonds
men, had cashed a check for $2,200 that
morning and gone away. On Thursday
Locklin, under a license from the probate
court, sold some bank stock to the
mount of $2,200, represented by the
check he had cashed, iesterdav he pur
chased a new traveling bug and a new
suit of clothes and was seen at the rail
road station as the noon train pulled in.
t hief of I'olice J. M. Donahue was
ailed into the cae, a warrant for lar
ceny was issued, and the wires were kept
sizzling in an attempt to locate Locklin
en route for Boston, New York or Canada.
When it became apparent from reports
received that he had not boarded the
train an automobile was chartered and
Chief of Police Donahue started for
Northfield Falls, the former home of
Locklin, where he was found at the rail
road station, from which he emeiged as
the northbound mail train whistled in.
He was brought to the office of Wil
liam C. White, acquainted with the
charge againBt him, and disgorged some
thing like $2,180 of the $2,200. He had
most of this in a belt on his person and
acknowledged spending the balance for
his own use.
It is reported that he endeavored to
persuade his wife, formerly Eva Alden,
to accompany him and that she refused
to go. It is also reported that he showed
the check to several people and that his
actions aroused the suspicions that he
was intending to make a getaway.
n session since that date until this
morning. This is perhaps the shortest
session m the history of the court.
noon to the 17th inst., court continuing (there. The Tanner boy carried the shot
gun and thrust it, butt first, into the
bout. It is probable that the trigger hit
the seat in being thrown into the boat,
State'-s Attorney S. S. Cushing had as the weapon was discharged when the
only four state cases to present and all muzzle was pointed directly at the Tan
of these were disposed of by pleas of I ner boy. The charge' entered the right
guilty. breast, and the boy screamed and fell
Judge W. u. Miles remarked that a I backward. His young companion ran to
remarkable amount of business had been I the house on the Tanner farm, occupied
disposed of during the term by orders I by Mr. Bucklm, and got him to come
and decrees and many having been en- ( On reaching the pond, Mr. Bucklin
tered discontinued, thus clearing up the found the Tanner boy lying near the edge
docket remarkably well. Judge .Miles of the pond. The injured youth gasped
left to-day for his home in Barton.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Marshall Preston of Marshfield
was in Bnrre yesterday as a business
visitor.
twice and then expired. Mr. Bucklin
notified Mr. Tanner in this village and
Dr. F. E. Corson, the town health officer,
accompanied the party to the farm. On
their arrival, Dr. Corson examined the
body and stated that death must have
ensued shortly after the wound was re
ceived. The body was then brought to
.sirs, i.iarence uwinell and child or this village to await preparations tor
Plainfield were among the Barre visitors the funeral, Selectmen E. N. Johnson and
yesterday. Coolidge Lamberton having been sum
JSrookheld visitors in the city this moned in the meantime
morning were Willard F. Medcalf and Health Officer Corson notified State's
Ralph Perkins. Attorney Gleason at Montpelier, and
Whs Anna Robertson, who has been after the circumstances had been ex
living on Perrin street during the past plained, the latter official gave orders to
year, has moved to West street. proceed with the burial arrangements
Grand Juror W illiam Wishart and I Later he told the health officer to wait,
Deputy Sheriff G. L. Morns were bus- (but finally reverted to his original order
mess visitors in Hurlington to-day. to go ahead with the arrangements.
Gordon A. Smith of South Ryegate, The Tanner youth attended the villaee
formerly of Barre, was among the bus- schools here. . His parents resided for
iness visitors in tne city yesterday and pome years in Montpelier, where the fa-
to-nay. I ther was eneseed as a painter.
.Mr. and .Mrs. ,j. n. raugnt, wno nave
leen visitinc in the city for a few davs.
returned yesterday to their home in KfcCt-lTION AT arAULDIHG.
Lnkeport. N. H.
Miss Rose Moore of PlainfieM arrived upper uwssmen oave tresnmen c nance
in the city yesterday and will visit at to Get Acquainted,
v, i r r;. t.-:! to.i.. c s.-; I
street for weeV - Members of the three upper classes at
Republican State Committee Is Planning
Activities for Two Weeks.
Chairman Stanley C. Wilson of the
Republican slate committee, accompanied
by governor eliminate Horace F. Graham,
attended a meeting of the several town
committees held at White River Junc
tion yestonlay. Tho gathering was one
in which much interest was shown in
both the national and state elections.
Mr, Wilson emphasized the importance
of arousing interest among the voters
and of getting out the full vote on Nov.
7. Candidate Graham's tali; was largely
on state policies, and from what ho said,
he will, as governor, place a restraining
hand on unnecessary expenditures,
A member of the state committee said
to-day :
" I ho Republican state committee i
outlining; a somewhat vigorous campaign
lor the two weeks preceding election day,
The question has been frequently asked
since headquarters were opened at Mont
plier 'Why a campaign with no contests
for state offices and why should Vermont
wage a campaign for the national ticket
with the state safely Republican?' The
question Ht first may seem reasonable,
but upon second' thought, does not seem
to stand rigid analysis. ermont has a
reputation that has been maintained for
years. Her solid, or practically solid,
Republican vote has attracted the atten
tion of the people the country over. If
in the former September state elections
a majority of 30 odd thousand was giv
en the state ticket, it was set down as
showing how the election would go for
the national ticket the next November.
"The purpose of the campaign is there
fore evident. The state committee do
sires one of these old-time majorities in
November the same indication of loyal
ty to Republican policies and to the can
didates for president and vice-president
as has bo many times been made by the
voters of tho state.
"With a national ticket that is a de
light to all true Republicans and with a
state ticket composed of men whose abil
ity has already been shown in offices of
trust, every voter should show his loy
alty to party and his appreciation of the
candidates by going to the polls on Nov.
7.
"Benjamin Gates, candidate for state
auditor, will spend the next two weeks
at Republican headquarters in charge of
the speaking schedule. It is planner! to
have as many rallies in the several coun
ties as there are available speakers and
the indications are that the people are
taking an interest anil desire to hear the
'spoken word' as much in this campaign
a-s in any in the past. Rallies may be
arranged through the town committees
who will complete the final arrangements
with the state committee.
"Thousands of lithograph likenesses of
presidential candidate Hughes have been
sent to every -tion of the state and
much literature of a national character
has been forwarded to the town commit
tees for distribution.
"From now till election day, the state
committee will be busy, and it is the
earnest hope that the voters will rally to
the polls and pile up one of those old
time, stimulating and invigorating ma
jorities for both the national and state
ticket."
STRUCK DOWN
AND ROBBED
John Collett's ,ry Soon
Led to the rest of .
Wilbur' niton
WATCH J MONEY
FOU- J ON LATTER
The, Two Men Had Been;
Strolling Companions
About Town !
Miss Alice Blair, who has been visiting
friends and relatives on Circle street
during the past few days, left this noon
for her home in Rutland
The sale of the Cannary property on
C able street that was reported in yes
terday's paper was made through the D,
A. Perry Real Estate agencv
E. L. Brock, who has been visiting
friends in the city while here for the
Foresters' convention, returned last night
to his home in Jjittleton, N. H,
Mr. and Mrs. Leath Bowles, who have
been visiting friends on South Main
street during the past week, left last
night for their home In Dorchester, Mass.
Mrs. James Hillis of 12 Elm street.
who has been making a visit with rela
tives
Manr:
last evening.
C. W. Perry. A. M. Batchelder and
N. W. Keith returned to Barre last night
from the dairy convention which has
been held in Springfield, Mass., this week.
They made the trip. by automobile.
Mrs. John Tsie pleasantly enter-
Snauldinff hiirli school tendered their an
nual reception to the members of the
freshmen class hist evening in the as
sembly hall at the high school building,
when about 250 people gathered, consist
ing of friends of the school, members of
the alumni and students. The affair,
which was one of the most interesting of
the early Beliool year's entertainments,
DROVE AUTO WHEN INTOXICATED.
was as successful as similar affairs have
been. The reception is held in order that intoxication offence and paid
Frank Silloway Pleaded Guilty, as Did
Arthur Bailey, to Intoxication.
Disastrous consequences of an automo
bile joy ride from Middlesex to Barre a
fortnight ago were aired in Magistrate
If. W. Scott's court last night when
Frank Silloway, a farmhand, ami Arthur
Bailey, his employer, were arraigned be
fore the magistrate on complaints made
to Grand Juror William Wisliart. The
two men were arrested in Middlesex yes
terday by Deputy Chid Gamble. Sillo
way pleaded guilty, under the automo
bile act, to operating a car while intoxi
cated, paying a fine of $2." and costs ag
gregating '$(1.05. Bailey acknowledged an
a ?5 nne
the new students in the school can get
better acquainted with older members of
the school.
A program was given by members of
the school and faculty and was greatly
appreciated bv all present- The first
number was a vocal solo by Miss Geor-
bv
in Boston and Lowell, Mass., and U'11 Plmpr. followed by a reading bj
Chester, N. IL, returned to the city 11,1 ro,1 01. Scotch sword dance b
Josephine Will, mandolin duet by E. J.
Dole and Miss Mabel Taylor, members of
tho faculty, vocal solo by Miss Loraine
Loranger, and reading by Miss Made
line MacDonald. After the program was
completed light refreshments of punch
and wafers were served the guests, after
tained the members of the Swastika 500 which they enjoyed a march and a few
Huh at, her homi. on South foin tret dances. The custom that has been used
Wednesday eyeninir. Severn! han1 nf in former years was carried out last
500 were played and afterward the truest I night
were ushered into the dinin? room, where w ith a freshman in the opening march
the table, attractively decorated with thus giving the freshmen a better chance
flowers, was bountifully laden with re- to get acquainted. The entire affair
freshments. I was termed a great success by all, who
Members of the Swastika 500 club were participated. The Montpelier Military
entertained at an eniovable informal band orchestra furnished music tor the
ami costs. Proceedings against Silloway
and Baftey were the aftermath of an ac
cident on North Main street which land
ed both men in the hospital.
Joseph Williams of this citv, arrested
by Chief Sinclair on a complaint made to
the grand juror, was arraigned under
the automobile act on a charge of using
an auto without the consent of the own
er. He pleaded guilty to the charge and
pairl a $20 fine and costs of ,ri.0.'i. The
authorities alleged that on the night of
(Vt. lfi Williams used a car belonging to
Jack Anderson.
Court was about to adjourn shortly be
fore 11 o'clock when Adolfo Malnati and
his wife, Teresa, were brought in on
charges of selling liquor illegally. Ear-
l: : ,1.. rkaii- l,m, it Cam.
II' I ill luc r.riiin in.-. ...... ... - -
I-. ... -r . y--,.-
that is. the old students marchin? ria street was raided nv j;cpuiy v. niei
psrty at the home of Mrs. Harry P.
llley of routh Main street last even
ing, the gathering took the form or a
business meeting and other gatherings
of the club to be held during the fall and
winter are to be of a social nature. Offi-
ers for 1016-1917 were elected and sev
eral new members were admitted. Be
fore her guests departed, the hostess
served a dainty luncheon.
Dan A. Perry is in Rrattleboro for two
occasion.
j Gamble and Officers Dineen and Murley,
who served a warrant issued by the
court at the request of Grand Juror
Wishart. A few bottles of beer were
found. Neither respondent was asked to
plead and bail of $500 was asked in each
case. Mrs. Malnati was admitted to bail
and her husband spent the night at head
REV, WM. SHAW PRESIDENT.
Of Vermont State Sunday School Asso
ciationConvention Ends.
Brattleboro, Oct. 21. The closing day
of the 48th annual convention of the
Vermont State Sunday School associa
tion brought the registration of the dele
Darkest Depot square and its shady
environs furnished the locaU for a dar
ing assault and robbery juHt before 11
o'clock lust night when John Collett. a
granite cutter living at 74 Summer
street, was struck down and robbed of
his watch and a roll of bills. After thr
victim had been thoroughly "frisked."
the assailant fled, only to be caught a
half-hour later by Deputy Chief Harry
Gamble. Before Magistrate II. W. Scot'f.
in city court this forenoon a man who
gave his name as Wilbur Thornton of
Grantham, N. II., charged with assault
and robbery from the person, entered a
pica ot not guilty and was sent back to
his cell at police headquarters when he
failed to furnish bail of $1,000. He will
be given a hearing this afternoon or Mon
day morning.
rhe story of the assault came to the
attention of the deputy chief as he was
eating his 11 o'clock luncheon in Jack's
restaurant, not far from where the rob
bery is alleged to have taken place. Col
lett, recovering partinlly from a stunning
blow on the cheek, groped through thn
darkness to the only lighted place in the
square, the lunch room. Deputy Gamble
and a half-dozen others were in the res
taurant and it was with difficulty that
Collett, still dazed from his experience,
made them understand what, had hap
pened. The deputy chief did not wait
for the details, but started out in search
of the man described by Collett. After
beating about the vicinity of both sta
tions, Deputy Chief Gamble accosted
Thornton just as lie wag emerging from
the lavatory in the Central Vermont sta
tion. At firjt he started to crowd past
the officer, but a warning word from the
policeman brought him to a halt. While
Thornton held his hands above his head,
the deputy chief went through his pock
ets and satisfied himself that he had
made no mistake in the identification.
The watch owned by Collett and the
money were in a pocket of the man's
eoat. Deputy Chief Gamble took him to
police headquarters, where Collett later
completed the identification.
According to Collett s deposition, he
met Thornton earlier in the evening.
Thornton said he came from Grantham,
N. H., although he had been employed
atelv in a Y incisor machine shop.
Thornton complained of a money short
age and toliett assured him that he
could have lodging at his home for the
night. Collett says that Thornton insist
ed on leaving the city at. midnight and
asked him to "stick around until the
train should leave. The pair walked up
nd down Main stret for a time and
then swung into Depot square. At the
north end of the M. & Wr R. platform,
according to Collett, they stopped and
were chatting idly about conditions of
alor. Of a sudden, Collett says. Thorn
ton struck him squarely in the cheek and
he went to the mat. Dimly he was
aware that he was being "rolled," ac
cording to the narrative furnished the
police, but he did not offer any resistance
as he feared that Thornton would use a
blackjack on him. When Thornton made
off with the watch and money, Collett
states, he managed to reach hi-s feet and
limp to Jack s place.
Thornton is a rugged specimen of man
hood and seems to take little interest
in the proceedings against him. This
morning he told the police that over
indulgence in liquor had erased from his
memory any recollection of what might
have occurred last night. Grand Juror
William Wishart investigated the al
leged assault early this forenoon and
then preferred formal charges against
the prisoner.
THROWN TO PAVEMENT.
Daniel Stoughton of South Royalton Was
Hurt in Barre.
Daniel Stoughton of South Royalton Is
at the City hospital receiving treatment
for contusions of the right knee and
quarters. Their esses will be tried early j wn,j of g maUn on North Main street,
TALK OF THE TOWN
A colony of young milk adders repos
ing in a crevice on one of the poles of
the Vermont Tel. Tel. Co. in Webster-
ville was uncovered yesterday by James
O'Grady. a lineman in the employ of the
company. .Mr. O Grady, having ascended
the pole, was about to swing bis legs
across one of the forearms, when he no
ticed the forked tongue of a youngish
looking viper pointing menacingly at his
pliers. Removing a l.wse strip of bark
that acted as a fhelter for the adders, the
lineman counted as manv as six snake-
lets curiously giving the well known
daylight the up and down. Procuring a
bottle, Mr. O'Grady suweded in inveig
ling four of the snake under the cork.
The crew of linemen at work near the
pole kept an eve single for big milk ad
ders during the remainder of their stay, real, P. Q,
but came away unrewarded.
lavs conducting the sale of pure bred g141" "(i to iuo u.r Br.,.
i :.,.j u.i..i ...ru .i,f i. i. held yesterday aiiernoon ana tne
,1.1 IL uririii .r. I ........ . l....l.l
ing held at the Ture Bred Livestock Sales . -
n farm Tlii. U f tie Ib H M r that Mr. "-'".
Perry has conducted for the company.
The cattle put up for sale are all regis
tered or pure bred-Holsteins. Later, as
the company grows, Jersey. Guernsey
and other breeds will be taken in and
put up at public auction as the Holsteinr
now are. In the two days of the sale
125 head of cattle will be led to the auc
tion block to be sold.
Among the guests arriving at Hotel
Barre last night and this morning were
the following people: Mr. and Mrs. G. A.
Livingston, jr., of Attleboro. Mass., Mr.
and Mrs. .T. E. Kennedy, Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Brown and Mr. and Mrs. (Tiarles
Whitney of Windsor, D. E. Price of Bur
lington. I .nne B. Alexander and George P.
Raymond, jr., of Springfield, G. A. Smith
of South Rvegate, J. W. Dunlap of Man
chester. C. C. Murray of Burlington. Mrs.
Jeorge M. Nichols, Miss Louise H. Sut-
Presi-
Rev. William Shaw, Ph. D., of
Montpelier; vice-president, W. B. GIvnn
of Saxtons River; chairman of directors,
C. T. S. Pierce of Vergennes; recording
secretary, Rev. E. M. Fuller of Richford;
treasurer, W. H. Wood of Burlington;
member international committee, H. A.
Slavton of Morrisville; member of direct -
in the coming week.
DUNKLIN THOMPSON.
Marriage of Orange Young Woman and
Barre Man Occurred Friday.
At 3 Currier street Fridav afternoon at
near the Merchant street intersection.
Stoughton, as the passenger in a carriage
with Ellis Rohonon of Washington, was
thrown to the pavement when an auto
mobile truck, owned by the Diversi Fruit
Co. and driven by Angelo Marchetti,
struck the team at a broadside. Wit-
3 o clock, Miss Lulu M.Thompson, daugh- nesses of the accident were unwilling
ter of Samuel Thompson of Orange, andjM-i10ir to absolve Bohonon from blame,
Bernest .1. Dunklin of this city werejSR it"is rljmed that he attempted to
married by Rev. J. W. Barnett, pastor ; t,lrn jnto Merchant street in front of the
of the Barre Congregational church, j trUck, which was coming down the street
Bride and groom were unattended and !on (hp rast sj,p-
only a few intimate friends witnessed rhauireur, Marchetti, had his ear
the ceremony. After a wedding trip to!,ln(1(.r ft control, else the eonse
Boston ami vicinity, Mr. and Mrs. Dunk- !-.. f ..rident must have been
make their home at 3 Currier I .,; tP brought his ear to ft
halt almost instantly and within two
lin will
street. The bride -is a graduate of
Spaulding high school, class of 1!M0, and
has lieen engaged a a school teacher in
driver for the
the work of Mrs. Edith Batch Wright
field secretary for ten years, demanding
the enforcement of the law against the
sale of cigarettes to minors, deploring
the tendency to commercializing and se
cularizing the Sabbath bv baseball, golf.
I moving pictures and other amusements.
ton. C. L. Tllton of Haverhill. ., ana ocmiinuing mr rnruriTmi-ni i lur
H. E. Palmer of White River Junction, laws against turn desecration were
ing board for three years. Prof. Raymond
MacFarland of Middlebury; trustees, H. iOrange. Mr. Dunklin is
A. Slavton of Morrisville, C. P. Smith of j Standard Oil compafiy.
Burlington and J. T. Ritchie of St.!
Johnsbury; auditor, E. G. Evans of Bur- j BURIAL AT MONTPELIER.
lington.
Resolutions expressing appreciation of iMrs. Etta Richardson's Funeral Was Held
Mr. and Mrs. H. n. Thorndike of Iloeton.
E. C. Favrol of East Orange, N. .! .T. H.
Larrr of Trov, Dr. Provost and Dr. Bach-
adopted.
in Barre.
The funeral of Mrs. Ktta Richardson of
Johnson, whoso death ocrnrred Wednes
day afternoon at the home of E. A. Wil
liam. 131 Washington strwt. wa held at
the hon- Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock, lin plar and a few spokes were re
The officiating rlergyman was Rev. A. F. !I. aed from the wheels that received the
Gallup. jmtor of the Pentecostal Nam-j bruit of the collision. Deputy Chief
rene church in Johnson. The h.-r-r -Gamble was called from police beadqnar
were: E. A. Williams. J. C (irigu's. and tcr to ouesfion the principles in the acei-
fcet of where Stoughton. thrown from
his seat to the flagging at the shock of
collision, was lying partially unconscious.
Pedestrians hastened to the assistance
of Stonirliton. who was taken to the office
of Dr. J A. Wsrk in the Morse block.
Later he was removed to the hospital,
where he was attended by Dr. Wark and
Dr. -A. B. Bisbec of Montpelier.
Pohonon's horse reared in the air. hut
maintained its footing, while the driver
clung to the reins in a rather desperate
fashion. The harness was rent asunder
Messrs. Chase of Northfi.-ld and More f dent.
G. E. Foster returned to-day to his Johnson. There were ev,ml fin - :1..r.l i
and of St. Johnsbury. Mr. Daisy of Mont-'home in Portland. Me after spending ten ;tr:bute. The body was taken to V nt I I'd ward Poland went last night
nays at me nome oi nis Mvther, A. I. rlir f..r inW-rnvnt in Greon Mount Fe !.cl. here lie is pissing the week-end
co. t osier in uramievuie, cemetery. t jrita uutada,
