4 4
I ~ ~ 1A
Asfi -lio Jamy 1-.1914. Ib kdi Tl!wfa~wOy ~
Smrnam fog mosey' walk toi lb.- wdomu
of afticd ukamd diupay wimm of i.HELDMsb
pa by amw Wados mahmt.
(C a PuWuMed Um.u Rowau). T HiumT
NO. 3418. WIA':RAD; amO pdsslILI WASHINGTON. Co" VFRM. ARW Y W5 1914,ON C'
GREAT ARNIE
IN DEATH
IN CRU
German Forces Hurlec
Increasing Feroci
Front, Ne
THOUSANDS IN I
French Lines Hold, According
Gigantic Tet
Believe
spee.. Cable t. Tbe
Paris, Feb. 24.-The battle of \
grim death struggle of nations does no
as the picked troops of France and I
which succeed each other with bewilde
The twenty-five-mile battle line p
reptile writhing in agony, its configu
alternating successes and reverses of di
So far, the Germgs have been i
single point. The utmost they have
the soldiers of the republic on strongt
tended by incredible losses to the atta
Five Miles from Verdes.
"On the wings." says the midnight ofl
clal statement. "we have carried back
our line. on one side to the rear of
Samogneux and on the other side to the
south of Ornes."
The Germans, fighting within five miles
of the great fortress of Verdun itself.
now hold the villages of Brabant-Sur
Meuse. Haumont, Samogneux and Ornes.
as well as the entire wooded district to
the northwest. north and northeast. They
also report the capture of Beaumont and
Ilerebois.
The French deny that their front has
been broken at any point. The retire
nent has been made In good order, It is
state-l. and certain points surrendered in
Oder to avoid unnecessary losses.
With the Kaiser himself reported on the
Verdim battlefield and with the crown
prince directing operations, the Germans
are launching cOuntlSS attacks sgainat
the French front.
Flait en Twenty'-.ve-oille Frest.
Their unprecedented expenditure of
shells continues and the bombardment Is
Continuous on a twenty-five mile front.
The rear of thousands of guns and the
shriek of shells continues day and night.
Pierce infantry assaults, delivered with
-what the French describe as "desperate
determination." are multiplying.
According to dispatches to London
newspapers. the Kaiser is making nu
snerous speeches to his troops as they go
into battle. encouraging them to face the
deadly fire and inspiring them not to
yield until the great French stronghold
is in their hands.
Long trains of wounded are being
transported back across the German fron
tier, according to news dispatches to
nicht. The German losses are described
as enormous.
The French midnight reports tells of
--hears of German bodies left upon the
field."
The attack on Verdun is viewed as
Germany's final and greatest effort.
Last Desperate Fgert.
it Is recognized." says a dispatch,
"that if this supreme effort fails, al hope
of Germany ending the war victoriously
,ill be abandoned."
Th- leading military critics declare
that the Kaiser chose the present mo
ment to launch an offensive in order to
forestall the concerted offensive planned
by the allies for the spring, in .which,
the authorities estimate, more than
1.o.00 troops operating in every the
ater of war. were to co-operate and en
compass Germany's immediate downfall.
The loss of the village of Brabant-Sur
Meuse is not regarded here as serious,
The attitude taken by all critics here is
that the five days' bombardment of the
French advance positions must neces
sarily have resulted in the abandonment
of certain shattered portions of the line.
It is felt that the outlook is far from
gloomy.
Stayinsg Pewers Praised.
parisians are expressing intease satis
fatcion in the staying powers of the
army. The military critics with one
voice point out that if the French troops
bold out for a few days longer the Ger
mnan drive will batter itsel fto pieces
and graudafly die away.
News reaching here this evening is that
the crown prince Is preparinig to go to
the Balkas and "Turkey in the second
sweek of March, indienting that the Ger
mns are not prepare~d to continus the
battle longe than ta days and that they
have resolved to win through to Ver'
dun or admit their complete fallere by
the end of the aunng wreek.
Ir'is. (Ns 6@ Zaga~
Halifax, N. B., Feb. K1-Under a ruling
handed down In the amir-alty coert to
day, the ease of the piin steamer Hock
lng is transferred to Englan for'tril.
The Hloektbg, a ship of United Sae
registry was agse with her cargs et
teal between New Trk ad South Amer
Kaiser Near Verdua.
Li... Feb. M,-Cginhmasm 45
saisn state that the Kains has msve
his headquarters to the Verden reem.,
iVhsre he daily mea ennemeg
-mmaa en -h *waee a n
ES LOCK
STRUGGLE
CIAL BATTLE
on French lines with
ty, Over 25-mile
ur Verdun.
)EATH HARVEST
to Paris Reports, and End of
ton Drive Is
I Near.
Waag.. Herald.
erdun is growing Gercer hourly. The
: halt for a single minute night or day.
lermany are hurled in terrific attack.
ring rapidity.
esents the aspect today of a collossal
ation twisting back and forth as the
ie desperate combatants are reported.
inable to break the French lines at a
accomplished has been to drive back
r positions after stupendous eforts at
king troops.
Americans Fired
On By Russians
Mistaken for Enemy, Corre
spondents Are Buried, by
Shell Explosion. -
Spedal Chble to The Wwahingtce Henld.
Bogdanow, Russia, Feb. 23 (via Berlin,
Feb. 24).-Quiet prevails along this
northern sector of the eastern front. The
Russians are silent In their trenches.
However, they are watching the German
lines closely and no commotion on the
western side escapes their attention.
A small band of American correspon
dents thus drew the JIe today
just as Prince Oscar was a target for
Russian shrapnel a few days ago. Not
many miles from here the Russians Ast
observed the Americans in a sleigh driv
ing down to the river bank from the
woods.
The Americans had just alighted and
entered a trench tunnel, when a familiar
bussing announced the coming of a mo
tor shell. The projectile crashed onto the
tunnel roof, but failed to penetrate,
sending splinters inside. The Americans
were imprisoned by the debris, but were
soon released.
The few Russian attempts to lierce the
German lines of late have been nipped
at the outset.
LOVE TRIANGLE NEAR
TO UNROMANTIC ENDING
Prince Miskinoff and Wife to Sign
Separation Papers in New
York Today.
Seedal to The Waaingto Herald.
New York. Feb. 2.-Before sunset to
morrow Mme. Almee Crocker Ashe
Gourad and the Prince Alexandre MIs
kinof will have subscribed their names
to a set of legal papers. One of these
papers-the very important one-will
formally dispose of the two-ply suit that
madame and the prince have been wag
Ing for mutual separation as husband
and wife. It will grant to madame the
separation she craves.
The other papers will deal with mat
ters Incidental to the abrupt ending of
the suit. Just what these other papers
record and mean In the lives of the two
could not today be learned.
But this much Is certain. Madame will
go her way. And the prince will pursue
his own path of life.
Miss Yvonne Gouraud, the charming
and young adopted daughter of madame.
is not affected.
No one, not even the prince, is quite
sure what he will do. He says that he
may go to Russia and ight the Czar's
wars. Or, he declares, he may joia the
French foreign legion.
Three Hundred Children Menaced.
Weymouth, Mass.. Feb. 34.-A boiler
In the basement of the Humphrey
Grammar School. East Weymouth, ex
ploded this afternoon whild 300 chil
dren were in the building. So far as
known all escaped.
Liner Still Aground
Boston. Feb. 14.-The Merchants
and Miners' liner Junlata, from Balti
more to Boston, which ran ashore in
Vineyard Sound yesterday, bids fair
to be tied up for several days. The
ship was still stuck tight early today.
Parcels of Eabber Seised.
London. Feb. 34. -- Announeement
was made today that 1,26g packages
of tubber were taken from the mails
en the Duab steamship Roladia and
1.890 paroes of rubber from the Gel-.
sa. It was all ensigned to Honland.
- ne sbipwrlshts empe by the
csaais WisbSE Camgay, UM, stree
tem e hi rWs h ess hge
Awm &uk March
When Troops Mtiy
London, Feb. 24.-An ex
change dispatch from Durazzo
states that the Austrians have
abandoned their advance into
Albanii-on account of the im
passible roads and mutinous
spirit of the Bosnian troops.
Albanians under Essad Pasha,
it is stated in a Central News
cable from Rome, have destroy
ed a Turkish band near Peto
medi.
RAIDER SINKS
BRITISH SHIP
Prize Taken From Under
Very Nose of Cruiser and
Blown Up.
WESTBURN IN DRAMATIC
EXPLOIT NEAR CANARIES
Vessel Destroyed Within Three-Mile
Limit of Tenerife. While English
Cruiser Is Helpless.
Spedal Chble to 'e Washinsgte Herald.
London. Feb. 24.-The career of the
British steamer Westburn. which put
into Teneriffe, Canary Islands, yesterday
in charge of a German prize crew, has
been ended in a highly dramatic man
ner. She was taken out of the harbor
by her German crew today and blown up
within sight of a British cruiser, which
was lying in wait to recapture her.
Dispatches to the Times indicates that
the exploit of the Westburn's German
crew was fully as remarkable as that
of the prize crew which brought the
steamer Appam Into Newport News.
With her 20 prisoners. taken from
various captured vessels on board, the
Westburn on her way to Teneriffe pass
ed several British and French warshIps
without exciting suspicion. The Times
dispatches state that she was under the
command of Capt. Badewits of the Ger
man navy.
Upon arrival In Santa Crus harbor.
Canunander madewita la informed by
the Spanish authorities that the Wed
burn would be returned to her British
owners if he decided to intern her.
Blows Up Sbip.
A British cruiser, which wee lying in
the harbor, immediately put out to cap
ture the Westburn if she should At
tempt to escape. Capt. Badewits and his
seven men started out with the West
burn, but as soon as they were outside
the harbor, and while they were still
within the three-mile limit they blew
the ship up.
Badewitz and his men then returned
to port. As the Westburn was still in
side Spanish territorial'waters the Brit
ish cruiser was unable to interfere.
A dispatch to the Daily Telegraph from
Madrid says that when the Westburn
was captured her name was changed
to the Moewe. and that the original
German raider named the Moewe was
then sunk.
This action was taken, the dispatch
says, because the original Moewe had
been badly damaged.
Shipping men would be glad to know
that this Is true, for the Moewe now has
to her credit fourteen vessels captured
or destroyed, all except one of which
were British.
AMSTERDAM IN DANGER
FROM RISING WATERS
Unless Dykes Hold City May Be Inun
dated-Nearby Towns Already
Are Devastated.
Special Cable to The Wiahingto HralsM.
Amsterdam. Feb. 24.-A strong north
easter Is blowing with a heavy fall of
snow and is causing considerable anxiety.
On account of the flooded condition of
the country the situation is critical.
In the neighborhood of Amsterdam
many of the villages bordering on the
flooded region which had been abandoned
are now devastated.
The dykes protecting Amsterdam are
being subjected to a great strain, and it
is feared they may yield at any moment.
If they give way Amsterdam itself will
be inundated.
Troops are endeavoring to strengthen
the dykes to prevent such a disaster.
British Coast Snowbound.
London. Feb. M,--The' British Isles
are showbound today as the reault of
the worst blissard in years. Tifk
coasts are being lashed by severe
gales.
bay Grees Was for 411ie..
London, Feb. 2.-That Greeoce
fared to join the allies at the time of
the Dardanellee expedition was strong
ly lndieated by interpellations In the
house of commtons today.
$50,000 Lose by lire.
Binghamton, N. Y.. Feb. 2.--The 3.
L. Joyee furniture warehouse was de
atroyed and the store of the 3, Mills
mly Grooery Cosmpany wase damaged
by fr.-oa. The ieee was gS0ee.
WiUll Nt V.. The a.~
-Sat haa desn met toe ua sad
3ltv la itsareds la Ats.
CAPITAL DE1
RIDER AD]
TO U.
Government Officials,
chants and Laboi N
ing Surprn
CHIEF CLERKS
Many Argue Extra Time Woo
and Result in Insignificai
and Bring Hard
The entire city is aroused in vig
yesterday by the House Appropriatiom
of an hour to the working day for the
Federal employes in the National Cap
Vehement denunciation of the p
was introduced was heard last night fn
cials, from civic leaders, from merchant
organizations interested in the welfare
Before yesterday not a word had
the length of the working day for Wai
to eight hours. In a twinkling the n
Committee by Representative William
a single citizen had been given an op
question or voice a word of protest. ti
Presented as a Rider.
The plan was not offered as a separse"
proposition, to be considered fuly. ado
quately discussed, and finally acted upon
after mature thought had been given the
matter by Congress. It was presented In
the form of a rider to the legislative, es
ecutive and judicial appropriation bill,
and was approved before the people et
Washington knew of Its existence
A campaign designed to defeat the pro
posal wilf be launched this morning by
G. Karl Weston. managing editor of The
Government Clerk, a local publication de
voted to the Interests of Federal em
ployeS. and John J. Deviny. secretess
of the National Association of CIVeN a.'
vice lployes. the Camt wil be -
Ited earty this mor.i- aen . s ss N
be made to enlist the apport of mmid
nent Senators and Representativsh in the
fight.
Borland Expect
Oust 3,000F
Declares Departments Are 0
and Insists Washington N
in Way of Nal
Dismissal of approximately one-tenth
of the employee of the Federal govern
ment in Washington would be neOesi
tated by the proposed addition of an hour
to the working day, according to Repre
sentative William P. Borland. of Mis
souri. author of the plan. This would
mean that approximately 3,W employee
would be thrown out of work.
"Theoretically, the addition of an hour
would require the dimissal of one
eighth of the employes," said Mr. Bor
land last night. "but. In practice this
proportion would prove to be about one
tenth, for the proposed plan would serve
to take up the slack in the service, to
eliminate per diem employee, temporary
employes, and the present steady in
crease In force.
"1 am of the opinion that all the Ped
eral departments are overmanned and
that the employes are underorked.
There are too many cheap employee, em
ployes who don't do a full day's wORk.
As a result advancement is difficult and
an employs has no guarantee that a good
showing will result in just premoton. I
would out down the force, perhape rais
ing salaries In a few instalincee It should
be borne In mind, however, that Federal
employee receive considerably higher
salaries than employee doing similar
work in private establishments.
"The added hour would result in In
Athens Fearful
Of Teuton brive
French So Confident of Vic
tory, However, No Plan
for Retreat Made.
Spadlal taMe t ih as hi esald.
Athens (via Berlin, Pob. 24). Feb.
50.-The political situatien In Athens
Ia now entirely governed by expeeta
tion of a great German-delgarian at
tack. There Is a growng5aar that In
ease of defeat the Engitat and Freneb
Wrill detreo the city.
Thne Frene sem eaMent of vIe
tory; so much eo, In feet, that they
have not completed a single line of
CM~onstaatine is &perturbabte
at entire Greek dest suppeets
him. The ~is ate~ , tS
Gesen and. thT
the uniteg repal atne
eb~ssas fc~wA an eN~m
IOUNUIS
)NJt G HOUR
L WORK DAY
Civic Leaders, Mer
Len Unite In Protest
e Measure.
WE NO SAVING
I Decrease EWiency of Men
t Saving to Departments,
ship to 30,000.
0r esposition to the plan approved
Committee provilag for the addii.
vas majority of the more than 30.000
Sal.
oposl and of the manner in which it
k al quarters-efrm government offi
.and from officials of aH types of local
of the city and its people.
Sheard as to the plan to increase
hiusbo's Federal employes from seven
otter was presented before the House
P. Borland, of Misnouri, and, before
portunity to ezpres an opinion on the
Scomimittee had idreI the plan.
Government oincials were almost unani
mous last night In ridiculing the amer
tion of Repreesntative bottand that
through the appeadon of the plan the
government wlM be enabled to save ap
proximately S.0MAI a year. The chief
clerks of nearly all the Federal depart
ments expreesed the oplen that very
litte Increase,. if any. in the daily ement
of work turned out would result from
the addition of the extra bour.
Thess' officla pointed out that the ad
dis of an hour would cut down the
emaeiucy of aoi-pe. to a marked do
gree. This opinion was shared by best
Uss men and civic lead. and even a
number of nmbers at Coagres.
.g.
Frf __ 1snor be the as-at
turning et of meore work than now I
CONTem9 n PAGE TW&
& His Plan to
deralEmployes
'ermanned and Underworked
lerchants Must Not Stand
ion's Welfare.
creased Ineffieency in the Federal service.
The contention that bdividual effliency
would be impaired by reason of the fa
tigue caused by the added hour is silly.
It Is so silly that it to not worth maewer
ing. No one ever claimed that eight
hours was too long for a working day.
Why. It would be a reflection upon them
selves if the Federal employee should
declare that they were not able to main
tain their efficiency during an added hour.
It would not only be a reflection. it would
be a confession. .
"It the Government employes want to
protest against the plan I know of no
more effective a means than by resign
Ing. It is ridiculous for Federal employee
here to protest against having themselves
claselded with Federal employes in other
parts of the country, all of whom work
eight hoom a day. Why, they can't pull
a thing like that here and get away with
It. Federal employee throughout other
parts of the land will raise their voices
In protest with charges of discrimination.
"In 1M10 President Taft announced that
he Intended to add an hour to the work
Ing day. but the protests of Washington
merchants caused him to halt the plan. I
can see that the merchants would be
opposed to the plan. but the efficiency
of the United Etates Government cant
stand aside for the merchants of a single
city...
Teutons Promise
Poles Autonomy
In Attempt to Win Support
Are Said to Have Offered
Independency.
wdel eB11e to -e WNa ReaM.
Petroerad. Feb. 5.-A striking feature
et the debate In the Dm Is the revels..
ties of a German elan to win over the
Poles by uromise of an indepsadeat PoI.
15h state,
The scheme, as dimoleged by e Petid
ersenent. VM EleEoi. woul rette
fue the inoerperatien ot Fesen ad 24.
thuanla In the new etate In reura sr
the formaatien et a Pelisa avsmy. blf a
anillion elteng, to eglat Germna' bas
*Tha vitoer awe that Gersmany le pun.
Wesest se ieee. to the ietaas aliea
er 0 senle ana ?etrasseA,pseoinces.
It; ios passesett amnen Uuulni
na mas.s~ a m..ta
WILSON
NATIOl
JUP I1
The Whit. Kerme late last might
gave out the foliowag letter.
whih the Paesident yesterday seut
to senator William J. stene. his
spokeemaa In the Senates
THE WUITE MOUSE.
WamhlngteN. Feb. a4, IV14.
My Der Sematest
I very warmly appreciate yew
kind ad fresh letter of today.
and feel that It ells for an equally
frank reply.
you are right in assuming that
I shan do everythl==r Is my power
to keep the United States out of
war. I think the comtry will
fast me umamees about my
em In that respoct. Through
many anxious months I have
striven for that object, ami
difficulties more mamlolld than
eam have been apparent apes the
urlasees ad se far I have see
seeded I do met desht that I amm
ontiame to aueed. The er
which the eentral European pow
ere have anoumead theIr iates
tien of feUewtag in the fatre
with regard to =nders w aro
nsms far the moment to threaten
taumperable ebstese, but its ap
purest meaming Is me manifestly
h=oommaitent with explicit ses
anees reasatly give. as by these
powers with regad to their treat
amast of morehant vessels em the
high oens that I must believe that
e=piasimme= will presently e
whieh wil put a diaemt speet
upop It. We have had me resom
to qesetten their g- fith or
thete deiity to their premise. in
the gat me. I, ew e. fee ese
idest that we shall have n- la
I" atos
noI a ama.- m on deow Is
e . N1 motes. me greep of ma
tirn, has the right, while war is
in progres. to alter or Moregard
the primeipls which a mations
have agreed upen Ia mtigution of
the horror. and sugerea of wars
and if the clear rights of Amerl
ean CttiUeM should vevy mahappity
be abridged or denied by amy
push atten, we shold, it seem
to am. have, i beer, me shotse
an to what our own coors. seOEld
be.
Fier my own part, I casset esn
seat to may mbridgment of the
rights of American ciliseas in may
The hoer sad self-respect of
the matten In lavolved. We covet
peose, and shall preserve It at any
cost but the lee. of homer. To
ftorbd oar people to exereise their
rights ftr fear we might be called
=o"e to vindiete them would be
a deep humiiatten iudeed. It
wel be as Implicit-a but an
explient--aeeltseefmes in the vie
itlk of the rights of makind
everywhere and of whatever ma
tiop er siaoa.e.
Ift would be a deliberate abdica
ties of ear hitherto proud peam
ties a spokesmen. even amidst
the turml of war, for the law
a" the right.
It would make everything this
govermnmeat has attempted mad
everything that It &sM a eom
plishod during this terrible strag
giO of amtie meaangless and
fetile.
It is important to reflect that If
in this iaste we allowed ex
pedoneey to take the place of prim
eise, the dee inevitably be
epeed to stil come.
siens. Onee aceept a saigle abate
meest of right and many other
humiatieas weld certainly fel
low, ad the whole too fabrie of
Itaernatieal law might erumble
mnder ear handis, piece by piece,
What we are contending for i
this matter is of the very smmer
of Ie thiags that have made
Ameten a sovereign nation. She
ent yield them withsut een
eon her 0*u Impotoaey as a ma
Utem ad -.ahag virtual umreder
et hae, indepeadest pettien samug
hemaeasa ot the world.
I am ----iug my dear Ssator,
ta deep -ela-n-ty, without bet,
i a siam e meeusamas of the
Srespeamdilltiee of my ofn ee,
e as year sineere ad devoted
dibd.f we should. =mmesel,
4m , we shell deras btoeds
bad whisme. asans mimestem as
thes are tuveved we msoet, 3mt
bamm we are frlads.m epesk our
is without reervaties.
WOODOW WILSON.
Fqrt Jurvis, N. Y., Feb. U6-tfie par
esrydthe chops et the Eie
- U M U 1 . la ~a t.- -
CALLS UPON
4 TO BACK HIM
4 U-BOAT STAN
COUNTRY'S HONOR
AT STAKE, AVERS
PRESIDENT IN NOTE
Writes Senator Stone That His Pur
pose Is Unalterable---Conces
sion Means Humiliation
"HAS NO CHOICE IN MATTER"
"Can Consent to No Abridgement of Right
Of American Citizens," Executive Says
Regarding the German Warning
President Wilson has uttered a clear call to the country to support h
against the efort that is being made in Congress to abridge the rights of
Americans to travel the high seas.
The President declares that such a yielding as is now proposed by Gh
leaders of the revolt in Congress will amount to conceding the iupotency of
this nation and of surrendering the independent position of the Unimed Steman
among the governments of the world.
President Wilson set forth these remarkably strong sentiments in a
letter to Senator Stone. chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations C.inn.
which was made public last night. This letter breathes a deep datermisaim
on the part of the President to stand unefterably for evay rist -ew paisussed
by an American citizea. and im its h hit s
gerated WAbts of the PsaideA's em- ntis
Congress at the recent White House reception.
LETTER BREATHES HOPEFULNESS.
At the same time, the letter shows that the President is still hopeful of
obtaining an amicable settlement of the submarine controversy and that he
is confident of his ability to keep the country out of war.
In the communication he serves notice on Congress that he will refuse
to consent to the abridgment of a single right now possessed by Amerca
citizens.
"We covet peace and shall preserve it at any cost. but the loss of
honor." was one of the impressive sentences in the Wilson letter.
The President declares that for the United States to yield to an abrudg
ment of the rights of its citizens as regards armed merchantmen would be a
"humiliation." and would amount to an acquiescence in a violation of the
rights of all mankind. He declares further than such action would make
everything that this government has attempted and achieved "meaningless."
WOULD BEGIN HUMILIATION.
The President predicts that if a surrender is made of the right to travel
on armed merchantmen it will be but the beginning of further humiliations for
the United States, and will threaten the fabric of international law throughout
the world.
The President takes occasion in this letter to express for the first time
his confidence in the good faith and fidelity of the German government in
regard to the promises already made.
The making public of the President's letter to Senator Stone came as
the climax to another day which had seen much excitement among members
of Congress and a growing determination among Democratic leaders in the
House to put through legislation warning Americans from belligerent liners
regardless of the President's opposition.
HOUSE REVOLT STRONGER.
The revolt in the House continued to give evidence of its strength not
withstanding the fact that assurances were given by -the administration fat
the situation with Germany had improved. Both Secretary Lansaig and other
members of the Cabinet were commissioned by the President to convey these
assurances. The Democratic House leaders. however, were suspicious and
because the details of the change were not forthcoming they continued their
plans for bringing the President to terms.
Secretary Lansing later decied AD m ay light on the assurances
which he had given to Democratic leaders, but the impression in Washington
was that the improvement consisted in the likelihood that Germany will p
pone the efective date of her new submarine decree from March I to April I.
and that the United States will consent to discuss with the Berim authoritis
the question of what constitutes defensive armament if Germany cares ia
raie it.
At the manie time It became rore a estra ywhts- emegfae
parent yesteaa that the sudden flare-up wsadlbrt xiiino ii.'
In Congress had already had a aagingenr ntePeiet att h 4v
efrect upon President Wilson's camSlse o i at edr nUaHue
against Germnany. as sIns'e.
In German quarters the demonstration earCartlebedothWes
in Congress wans accepted as eeone ndasedfoeaingnn
evidence that there coulddbetno brea
over the guestlan of amesd mairebant- o h oeg far ~mis.R m
mme. In these quartern the antludon isthstute.m w n fr
was accepted as a fact that Preddeat clhu.wtotaym~s i
Wilson wouid not think of earrying the ~ ~ ~ ~ I.te~
Asse with Germny to the breaking polt a tdvlpd ae.b w
with a badly divided Cogrs on ~heis sdn bdrtrdishsDn
*-hM view was neespted here as fore- Sntr$oe n a etE~e n
abaSwing the Osi that the Germma strcin ta ewe o-o em
emmnent Itself w04 inbe, and It Is expect-rut1
ed thet the deveteaments of the test few WahnonwsbgnngA .
daygs will he relsee to a Gee stabdesu te
by ths Dertin authorittss the thsy hats i~ta ~siuow n
yet taken em th lsmr lsue. -hr sn msr a ob ~~
ha the Boese aga-s
enee oothe Prsdets part toteatv
ite o isprt eaes in h IRIa
