JH0L08 FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRESS ASSOCIATION A BEST glQHT-PAOer WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY.
. THIS .
,,-v, Tr.4VH.rk
FOR
Excitable Nerves
or Feeble HealA
the oil-food tonic
in
Scott's
Emulsion
is the beet
' that nature affords
00,
Always Skua '
Inferior Substitute
lut in.ven.iam viam, ant fuciam.
Volume XXXI, . Number 26.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916.
M. F. CON LEY, Publisher.
big Sandy
; - - - - - - ;
NEWS.
CULLED WITHOUT A
I
fl. T. Kaae, Well Kdowi Lecturer on
Mr.r and livsCtnrlr
,nu euu in iv uiuua.
DIES AT AGE 75
Agriculi
j Mr. W. t. Kane, one of the moat
prominent elllsene of Eastern Ken
Mcky, died suddenly at ble residence
j , oear fallsburg, this county. Tuesday
I areolar last. He had Just finished his
I i . supper and without any warning-, so
tar aa we know, dropped to the floor
'Jv J dead. He was burled the next day
VJ'eAar bis name, after funeral services
-. f conducted by tbe Rev. L. E. IscEldown
; x ef. of (ble elty.
sir. Kane was 74 years, months ana
t days old. He was born In Ohio and
cam to this State Zt years agu.. Ha
i BMjried Mies Josephine Moan, daugh
ter of KU Sloan, a well known cltiseii
eg this county. He Is survived by a
widow and one son, John, who Is now
little lens thun two days.
: ilearliiir of a blar bimeh of enttJo. I":
a few drive later set out on borsnbar
Into Washington-Co., Vu. "1 could
ho money In the cattle, so I retirt.-l
without lh rm," said Uncle Rob, He i
ten-sets out afoot and Olivers nvi y
I miles over mounliiln to rather p
young stock. At the recent Novernb f
election-he set out to his voting n.ict
at Colson , afoot, seven miles, a d re
turned before noon, irmklns the 14
miles "without the , least fatigue," as
be expressed himself. .
While Uncle Hob has never been a
politician what some men call poli
ticians yet be, upon the earnest so
licitation of his legion of friends, be
came a candidate for the Legislature
II years uo, to be exact. He was over-1 Died, at Ms residence, six or seven
whitniniriv hot tu,f utun . miles above Louisa. Mr. Harry Mc
with the whims of politicians, be de-! Clure," a member of one of the most
elded he would never again become a i Prominent families In Lawrence eoun-
candtdate. Thirty-three years ago he.ty- He bad not been sick very lung,',
Good Citizen Passes Awaj After Brief
Illness of PoeoocDia -
Main Tesponded to the call of friends
and became a candidate for a place In
the Kentucky House of Represents
having contracted pneumonia some
two weeks ago while attending the fu
neral of a neighbor. His death occur-
tlves. was-elected, a Democrat from : red on Monday, Feb. 21st. The funeral
a Republican district, and It was dur
ing this session of the Legislature that
he had passed a number of Important
measures. One was the establishment
of a new county the County of Knott,
out of parts of Letcher and Floyd
counties. The Important measures won
him considerable fame. Several years
later he became a candidate for the of
fice of Sheriff of Letcher-co. He ran
took place Wednesday and was very
largely attended by relatives and
friends. , The funeral services were
conducted by the Rev. Newell H. Toung
pastor of tbe M. E. Church, of this city,
Mr. McClure bavlng been for many
years a consistent member of that de
nomination. Interment was made at
near the place of MS death In a burial
ground which overlooks tbe place on
rlv rrowu. A niece and nenhew
make their boroe with the family of the ' away ahead of his opponent and made i the opposite side of the river where he
deceased. Two nephews, Jumes and 'a splendid official. Afterward he was was born, the old Wm. McClure home
Will Kane, at one time were residents , ursed to become a candidate again. "I'stead.
of Uiis fbum. and visited here a few am forever out of politics," he said,
years ago. The NKWH Is not Inform- During the Civil War Uncle Bob
ed concerning his other relatives. j Joined the forces of the Houth. became
By the death of Mr. Ksne a good clt
isen and valuable man has been lost to
tlts community. II" wus ot.e ol the
mat prominent agriculturist In th
State. His services were sought as a
lecturer nnd tenchcr In various uri
eultural snd county Irmdlu t nnd lie
always- hjul a prvmlr.eiit place on the
nrogram of Instruction. He was a
"Book Firmer" snd a practical one.
His Ideas a-ere advanced, up-to-date.
and Intell Kent, lie wus fond of his oc
cupation Uid led nothing undone wb.cli
would add to his knowledge of hus
bandry. He was a great reader of books
pertaining to his favorite subjects and
what be read be remembered. He took
much Interest In local agricultural mat
ters. being an active member of the
various Lawrence county agricultural
associations, contributing In every men
er possible to the attractions offered
by tbe County Fairs: He was a man of
pronounced Individuality, having Ideai
us his mm which be advanced and UP
held with forcible terms. By bis death
the farmers of this county lose a vat
stable friend. He was a man of sterling
Integrity, Industrious, and active In af
fairs. He sought by every means In his
power to promote tbe agricultural In
t create of this county.
In religion he was a member of the
Presbyterian organisation and the
NEWS Is Informed that every night
before retiring be sought to make him
elf right with his Creator. He wss a
good husband and father and public
spirited cltlsen and good man. The
death of such a character la a distinct
loaa, not only to bis grief stricken fam
ily, but the community and the Htate
as well. His funeral was largely at
loaded, which showed the esteem and
respect In which he wss held.
Colonel and saw service In many a
memorable conflict for his country's
cause. He Is to-day well preserved
us well as the average man or SI. Ills
Mr. McClure Is survived by a widow.
ed themselves were the ribbon bearers, i
making urf aisle with their vhlte rib-j
bons, then came Miss Shirley Burns
bearing flowers, and following her were
the matrons of honor immediately pre
ceding the bride and groom, who pre
sented themselves before the improvis
(ed altar, behind which stood the of
ficiating cfrrgyman, who after a fash
Ion of his wn, proceeded to unite them
In the bolj bonds of hemlock. All this
seems quite matter of fact, as usual.
because fr more reasons than one It
Is Impossible to tell of all the funny
things-that were said and done. The
questions asked the bride and groom
were by nd means of the ordinary kind.
When the' question was asked If any
person had any objection to offer, the
genius who presided at the piano for
bad the bans, giving a very original
reason why the marriage, according to
her opinion, should not go on. In fact
nothing was omitted which could make
this mock marriage a very, very funny
affair.-
' The dreiaes of the guests and-those
of tbe wedding party who did net rep
resent the' masculine gender were very
appropriate and handsome. When It
comes to describing the apparel worn
by the "Rev. Mr. McBldownetft and
Mr; "Bill McDyer," the merchant tail
or could da. It better than the writer.
Two dress suits r of two of Louisa's
young, bloods had. been pressed Into
service foa this occasion and that they
were pressed will be no doubt. The
"Ate" wei. perfects The Rev. gentleman,-
whiita name was taken for the
occasion, would never nave known him
self had lie looked In the glass, and It
DEATH RELIEVES-
Mrs. Elleo Waldeck. Helpless
Twelie Years, is Called Home.
for
had been attacked by a virulent dis
ease which kept Mm from going at
once to the bedside of her who gave
him birth. Jrje and one son. Jack. war
present, however, at the last sad rites.
mm. waiaecKs sterling worth as
wife, mother, daughter. ! ..
friend is too well knows to need re
counting here. Chllllnr wind. .,.
of summer, and the icy hand, of deatb
belong to this earth. "Aunt El" Wal
deck will suffer them no more. Things
decay here, wither and are gone, but
she is In the land of the amaranth
where the blossoms never fade and '
where the Bun of rlghteousneu drive.
all -night away.
who herself Is very 111 of the disease required vf placard pinned on tbe back
which caused the death of her htia-lof hta coat to inform those present
band. There are also living seven thil
dreti, all grown, two of whom live In
Iuisa, Mr. ilice McCIuru and Mrs.
Hammond. Beside these, there is an
eyesight Is good, his henrlng all that laired sinter, the venerable Mrs. Nancy
A BABY WHOSE
FATHER IS NINETY-SIX
Kesarkablo Old Rao Still Liring Id
Letcber CoDoty.
Whltesburg, Ky February 6. There
Is little question that Uncle Hob Bates,
wtio a few days ago rounded out his
ninety-sixth birthday at his home on
the headwaters of Rockhouse creek, ten
miles from here. In Letcher-co, Is the
most remarkable man In Ibis country.
Uncle Bob a few weeks ago became the
father a bright baby, making the twenty-fourth
that had come to bless him.
Talking of his children to an Kn
uirer representative. Uncle Bob said,
olntlng toward a tot In the corner:
There's our baby boy snugly tucked
ay onder the cover he's a corker
a meet wonderful child In the world,
wrding to my version. We think of
Ming him Wood row. In honor of lrs
nt Wilson. Here (pointing to a llt-
girl close by his side) Is Mildred
Hipatra. Cleo we call her for short,
r two-aftd-a-half-year-old girl and
re's little Minerva, our four-year-.
Both are good little girls we
dly know they are on the place."
ng Interrogated by the correspond
regardlng his family In general
le Bob said: "Toil see, I have
i married three times and aa a re
I have three families by my Bret
i nine children, by my second wife
t children and by my third and
ent wife seven children, making 14
11. Am proud of all of them as any
could be, and I have none to spare.
thinks there's nothlnr like the
last ones especially our nany
anyone couid"w:h '.n fact, every in
dication points to the fact that Uncle
Bob will live and enjoy the fruits of
his labor many years longer. He said
he had never used tobacco nor coffee,
had never smoked a cigarette, had tak
en life easy, snd never worried In the
least, which are safe attributes of his
Ions and succeeeful life. Cloning, he
said: "I have always drank a moder
ate quantity of whisky pure whisky
-moonshine, unadulterated, if 1 can
get it. No one can deny that It Is not
healthful.
Uncle Bob staled that his descend
ants numbered nearly 200 grandchil
dren, about 160 great-grandchildren
and from 60 to 76 great-great-grand
children scattered over Letcher and
Knott counties. He is a brother of Cap
tain Bates, the famous Kentucky giant.
now residing at Seville, Ohio, whom
Uncle Bob has been a life-long Dem
ocrat, having rarely "scratched" , bis
ticket.
l:i!li.ls, if this ci:
'iherc aro also
to his ldfitlty. There was no horrid
"man person" within a block. of the
charrru-d precincts of the bouse, hence
fun was free, fast-juid furious.
Without- refreshments tho affair
would ha'.'e been Incomplete and those
FRANK L0GKW00D
ANSWERS SIMONS
Prominent Yoong Farmer Dies From
a mastoid Operation. .
The death of Mr. Frank Lock wood at
hospital In Cincinnati, has caused
profound sorrow throughout this en
tire section. He wss universally popu
lar and beloved. He was also con
nected by blood with several of our
leading families. His mother was a
Vanhorn. He was related to the Moore
family, one of the most dlstigulshed In
this city. He was 42 years old and was
the only child of the lata John Lock-
wood and Mrs. Lucy Lockwood. He
was devoted to his mother and In turn
s Idolized by her. Since the death
of his father some years ago, he had
accumulated much wealth and the
Lockwood farm la probably the finest
In the county and la worth a fortune.
It is said of him that he was Interested
n every good move. Was public spirit
ed to a marked degree and could ai-'
ways be counted on to lend assistance
in any good move. He was ever quick
to detect worth and to lend a helping
hand. His tenants are said to have
been devoted to him. He was broad
minded and liberal, magnanimous and
generous to a fault. He bad that nob
ility of soul that atrongly attached men
to him. He was an adherent of the M.
K. Church, South, and was a good Sun
day school worker at Mary . Moore
Chapel, near hia home. It being due to
Ms efforts that thla was considered one
of the finest Sunday schools In the
county.
The remains arrived at the home at
Lockwood station Saturday evening.
A large concourse of sorrowing friends
awaited the arrival at the depot The
remains were accompanied by his grief-
stricken mother, his cousins. Burr
Powell of Lockwood, and Mrs. Clara
Powell-Williams, of Ashland, the two
latter having been with him at the hos
pital.
Mr. Lockwood had many relatives In
this city, the nearest of kin being, an
aunt. Mrs. EH O'Brien.
other sisters and one brother, .Mr. T.l served on' this occasion completed the
li. McClure. of Wayne, W. Va. Peverul ' function very handsomely Indeed. The
nieces and nephews live In this .city
Mr. McClure lacked four hours of be
Ing 76 years of ege. having died at
p. m. on the last day of his 74th year.
Mr. McClure was well known as
good citizen, husband, and father and
as a consistent member of tbe church
He was held In high regard by his
neighbors, the people who know any
man best. He had always lived In this
county and was known as a man of
sterling Integrity. The loss of such
citizen Is a loss indeed.
THE OLD HOMESTEAD DAIRY,
Quite recently the Home Dramatic
Company, of this city, gave a very
creditable presentation of this beauti
ful drama at the Masonic Hall, It was
largely . attended - bf -an appreciative
audience and was received with every
evidence of deserved favor. The com
panjr contains some excellent players.
and the giving of another entertainment
by them would be welcomed by a full
house. ' . , . .
HOSPITAL NOTES. . -
Mrs. Jas. Hatfield, of Matewan, W.
Va, who underwent an operation re
cently, has recovered sufficiently to be
able to leave for ber borne Saturday.
Mra Bertha Chllders, of Torchlight,
entered the hospital Thursday fur
treatment.
BABY BURNED TO DEATH.
Ashland. Ky Feb. 21. Herbert L.
Sargeant, 6 years and 6 months old,
son of Robert Sargeant. who conducts
a small store near Ashland, died from
the effects of burns received when his
night gown caught fire from an open
gas stove.
OIL NOW BRINGS $1-78.
Another advance of five cents per
barrel In the price of crude oil In Ken
tucky has been announced, making the
price now 91.78.
BRIDAL SHOWER
AND 1UJARRIAGE
Enjejable Erect In Honor of Riss
Jeaone Adams.
"Aunt"
DROPPED DEAD.
Patsy Goble, a well known
.. . .i.ii-
thus were oeen qu.. .-"""""and respected colored woman of thia
,g Mm a name then It J" place, dropped dead Thursday evening
of this week. She was past 80 years
e-ln naming the great number of of nd waa , ,,,. of vtru
rcn. y we war .- """.children.
rd of Tare emciue.
t long ago Uncle Bob set out on
back from his home on Rock
- creek to M(. Sterling, Ky, a dls
of about 200 miles. Although
Mrs, Wat Andrews and Mrs. George
Calvin, of Ashland, and many relativ
es and friends from this vicinity at-
of the trip was over rough moun- tended the funeral of Mra Ellen Wal
la he made the distance in a deck Aionuay.
Quite the most novel and amusing
function of the season was the ante
nuptial shower given last Saturday af
ternoon by Miss Uoldie Byington, In
honor of the bride elect. Miss Jeanne
Adams, of this city. Tbe scene of the
occasion was the handsome home of
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. McClure, which had
been tendered to Miss Byington espec
ially for this event. Bridal showers
are by no means rare, but this w
quite unique because of its dominant
feature a mock marriage. This mar
riage had all the accessories of the real
thing, except the marriage Itself. The
high "contracting parties" were . Miss
Julia Dorcas Snyder representing Miss
Adams, and Miss Ooldie Byington rep
resenting "Bill" McDyer, or aa a pla
card on the back of the groom's coat
said. "BtlL" The ribbon bearers were
Mrs. Richard V. Gnrred and Miss Vic
toria C3 aired, the flower girl Miss Shir
ley Bums, matrons of honor, Mrs. R.
L. Vinson and Mrs. F. 1 Stewart, the
officiating clergyman was Miss Clara
Bromley, and Miss Opal Spencer pre
sided at the piano. ITomptly at the
hour, as reporters say when speaking
of the real thing. Miss Opal Spencer
began the strains of the well known
march and the procession descended
the stairs Into the parlor which had
been handsomely decorated for the oc
casion. The flrst figures that present-1
matron of the home, Mrs. McClure,
herself a took of no mean ability, de
clares that no such chicken salad,
pimento nandwlches and orange Ice
were ever made. The work of the
preparation of the feast and all else
pertaining to this occasion was the
handiwork of Miss Byington.
The sht-wer waa almost a downpour,
the number of useful, ornamental and
appropriate articles being too numer
ous to mention. The affair from Its
conception to Its close waa highly sue
ceesfuL : - - .
FOUR PERSONS BITTEN
eM . - v
:: - BY TWO W DOCS
All tbe Victims arc Being Treated for
On Friday last Mr. James Shannon,
who lives not far from the old Ulysses
Uarred place about eight miles above
this city, was bitten by a dog; which
is believed by many to have had hydro
phobia or rabies. The dog belonged to
Mr. Shannon, who had been examln
Ing the animal aa It lay on thj floor in
the bouse. As he turned away the dog
sprang at Mm twice, the first time
catching him by the arm, but not bit
ing him. The second time, however, the
dog caught him by the nose, lacerating
it badly. The brute was. instantly shot
by a son of Mr. Shannon, blowing near
ly all of Its head off. Mr. Shannon came
at once to Louts where Dr.. T. D. Bur
gess dressed the Injury. The doctor Is
giving dally attention to his patient
using the approved Pasteur treatment,
giving him hypodermic Injections of
antl hydrophobic serum daily. This
treatment will be continued for three
weeks, when the patient will be sale.
Mr. Shannon Is a man of family and
son of Harry Shannon. The woun-i
cn his nose is healing very well ana
Dr. Burgess thinks his patient is safe
The dog's head would have been sent
away for examination, but it was too
badly shattered. -
Three Bitten By Mad Dog. .
Ashland, Ky Feb. 18. Three per
sons were bitten by a mad dog at the
home of Mrs. J. B. Powell at Burnaugh
near this city. They were Mary Rice,
years old, of New Richmond, O., a
niece of Mrs. Powell; Miss Emma By-
ard, a maid, and a negro employe. All
were taken to Bowling Green for Pas
teur treatment.
WAS FELT IN LOUISA.
An earthquake shock waa felt In
Eastern Kentucky cities late Monday
afternoon lasting from 20 to SO seconds.
No loss waa reported.
The shock was distinctly felt here
by several people, who, a few minutes
after It occurred, told their experience.
The quake occurred at 6:46.
ELECTION OF PUBLIC
8CH00L TEACHERS.
The Board of Education recently
elected the following teachers for the
Louisa Public School for next year:
Mr. Dock Jordan, Misses Sallle Uear-
heart, Maude Smith, Ooldie Byington
and Clifford Wilson. .
A short while before noon on Sunday
February 20, after twelve years of suf
fering and Illness, Mrs. Ellen Burgess
Waldeck sank to eternal rest without
a pang. Her illness, long and painful
aa it was, was borne with a christian
fortitude and patience which was born!
ui ttuia- which sue proiessea in ner
Redeemer.. On the following day in
the early afternoon a very large num
ber of the sorrowing, sympathetic rel
atives and friends gathered at tbe house
where ahe bad for so many years been
a mother, to pay the last tribute of re
spect to this much beloved woman. Tbe
short service was approp-late, simple
and touching. It was- conducted by
the Rev. L. E. McEldowney, pastor of
'the M. E. Church, South, of which
church the deceased had been for many,
many years a consistent and devout
member. Mr. McEldowney took no
special text, but selected passages of
scripture, which, as they were spoken
by him, must have been very. comfort
ing to the Immediate family of the de
ceased. He spoke as be had heard of
her because he had known her only a
short time, but as he had said shortly
before her death he had beard many
good things spoken of ber, nothing but
good. Hymns, which were doubtless
favorites of hers, were sung some of
the old hymns of the church that have
been sung so many, many times before
that one : would almost unfailingly
guess what they irere ''Nearer my
God to Thee," "Jesus Lover of my
Soul" and "Abide with Me.'' They were
sung beautifully and toucMngly with
out any effort at display which em
inently became the pure, simple, sweet
life of her whose ears were deaf to
mortal melodies, but which could hear
and drink in sounds of the bright world
to which she had gone.
. At the conclusion of the short ser
vice very many who had not seen the
dead woman for some time previous
passed by the flower-covered casket
and gazed .upon the features of ht-r
whom they had known In health and
whose face, which bad been drawn and
seamed by the pangs of many years,
appeared almost made ' young again.
Her suffering seemed to have left no
traces, whatever.
Then, borne by six of her nephews,
the casket was taken to the hearse and
by it conveyed to Pine Hill cemetery
where the silent dust of the husband,
who had preceded her many years.
quietly reposed.
Mrs. Waldeck was born December
It, 1842. being at the time of her death
In her 74th year. She was the daugh
ter of the late George R. Burgess and
was one of eleven children. Her de
mise leaves but one surviving member
of that large family, Mrs. Wm. Carey,
of this city. . .
In 1868 she was married to Wm. H.
Waldeck and shortly thereafter went
to housekeeping In Louisa where she
remained until the day of her death
To Mr. and Mrs. Waldeck were born
four children, one son and three da ugh
ters, all of whom are living except one
daughter who died at the age of three
years. She was In every respect an
ideal woman, one of her dominant
traits being her love fcr ber home and
a deep affection for her husband and
children. This affection was shared by
her numerous relatives whom she was
always fond of having with her. She
was eminently a home woman, caring
but little if anything, for society or the
amusements of the world. For her
church and preacher, however, she was
always ready to do something. In this
respect Bhe shared a notable charact
eristic of her revered father and moth
er, Mr. and Mra George R. Burgess,
who for so many years lived at the old
Burgess homestead where they dis
pensed a hospitality as abundant as It
was generous.
Mrs. Wuldeck's love for her children
was great and selfsacriflcing and to
their honor, be It said, these children
in so far as they could, repaid their
mother with the pro roundest, affec
tionate regards. When stricken by the
dreadful paralytic stroke no one ex
cept those who were in position to
know, could begin to tell how tender
ly, patiently and unremittingly the
poor woman, helpless as a baby, was
watched, nursed and otherwise cared
for. Every wish she expressed was
gratified. One of the daughters, Janie,
waa a hopeless invalid, but notwith
standing her condition she was ever on
the alert to do something for mother.
Upon the married daughter, Mrs. T. S.
Thompson, fell the burden of the house
hold of the helpless . mother. Right
nobly did she rise to the occasion, and
since time began, perhaps, no mother
waa cared for more devotedly. This
attention and devotion was shared by
her son-in-law, Mr. T. S. Thompson.
The calls were never so numerous up
on him for attention to bis wire's moth
er that they were not answered prompt
ly and cheerfully. Such was the at
tention and devotion he gave his moth
er that It became known and spoken
TIMBER TRACT 80LD
BY DR. B. P. GARRED.
A considerable tract of timber about
seven miles above Louisa, Ky., baa
been sold by Dr. B. P. Garred, of Char
leston, to William Triplett, of Coal
River. There Is about 2,000,000 feet of
timber on the land, and the purchaser
will begin cutting it at once, employ
ing about thirty men. Many -varieties
of timber are contained In the tract
consisting mainly, however, - of oak,
poplar and chestnut It touches slack
water and will be marketed at Cat
lettsburg and Kenova.
The deal was closed through O. D.
Garred. of Huntington, a brother of Dr.
Garred, of Charleston. ,;
DOINGS IN THE
MATRIMONIAL WET
Cnpid Has Been Terr Bosj Doling
tbe Week.
: ESTEP-TURMAN.
On Tuesday afternoon, at the Coun- -ty
Clerk's office. Miss Nola Estep, of
Catlettsburg, and Mr. Paul Turman, of
Buchanan, were married by the Rev.
M. A. Hay. The groom Is a son of
Mr. Sam Turman, and has employment
in New York City where the young
couple will reside.
THOMPSON-BERRY. . ' .
On Wednesday last MIbs Nora
Thompson and Mr. Loarin Berry, son
of Mr. and Mrs. "Buck" Berry were
united In marriage at the home of the '
bride's father, Mr. Felix Thompson, by
the Rev. H. B. Hewlett. The bride is av'
very pretty and Intelligent young wol
ffian, formerly a student at the K. X.
C. . -
BROOKS-MAHANEY.
W. M. Mahaney, an employe of C.
O. was married to Miss Nannie Brooks,
of Walbridge. She Is a daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Brooks. Ma-
baney's home is at Clifton. Forge, Va.
The marriage occurred at the home of
the Rev. Olus Hamilton, the officiating
minister. The bride is a very pretty
and attractive young woman. Tha
couple went to Cincinnati.
Licensed to Wed.
Bert McCormick, aged 27, to Annie
Murphey, age 16. . .-
Harmon Workman, age 19, to Katie
Shortrldge, age 17. .
W. J. Webb, age 22, to" Dorothy Webb,
age 17. -
TEST WELLS
WAYNE COUNTY, W. VA.
Tbe S. J. Ferguson Holdings-of 4303
Acres to be Prospected.
We take the liberty of publishing the
enclosed letter received a few days '
ago: '..
nt kit matt Vall ti ..!
RESIDENCE CHANGES HANDS. fc.V their 'iw.rd.' The other son Te
F. U. Brown has sold his residence on Dr. George N. Waldeck. of Huntln.
Lock-av. to Mra Boggs, a sister of .ton, W. Va; Whenever he could find
Lafe Wellman. Possession will be time from the duties of an exacting
given April th. We have not learned ! urofeasion. lie and bis wife would via.
where Mr. Brown and family will lo-1 it mother. When It became known
cate, but regret to hear thnt thoy ex- ' that Mrs. Waldeck had at most but a
pect to move away from 1-ouln. . few days to live. Dr. Waldeck himself
'I have Just recently brought about .
a connection between The Flint 8troth-
er Co., a corporation of Clarksburg, W.
Va,, (who are in the oil and gas de
velopment business) and the heirs, of
the estate of S. J. Ferguson, deceased. ; .
of Ferguson, W. Vs., which resulted In ,
a lease being given on the entire hold
ings of our property consisting of 4300
acres more or lesa According to the -
terms of the lease, drilling Is to begin
April 1st, and six test wells are to be
drilled. The location of the first well
was made last Tuesday, and arrange
ments are now being made to put the
machinery on the ground immediately,
preparatory -Uo drilling. , ,
I have Just recently purchased my.
uncle's holdings, Mr. John C. Ferguson,
of Ferguson, W. Va, Including mineral,
residence and store. The deal was clos
ed yesterday. My folks will move from .
Buckhannon, W. Va, to Ferguson about
March 1st. My sister, Mrs. Ida V.
Watts, will have charge of the store.
and I shall continue my position, for a
while at least, with the Roberts. John
son ft Rand .Shoe Co., of St. Louis, Mo.,
in tno northern part or the state, with
headquarters at Clarksburg, W. Va
With my very kindest wishes, I beg
to remain,
Tours very truly,
S. JAT VINSON, .
Formerly of Wayne-co, West Va.
i
