5' '" "" v
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
ittmtm
NIGHT
EXTRA
C T"
vol.ii.-no. i4i
PHILADELPHIA, FHIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 11G.
Constant, 1010, tt tub FcbUo Lcmu CoMriNT.
FRIGID ONE CENT
CONGRESS IN REVOLT AGAINST
VERDUN LINE AGAIN SMASHED;
GERMANS CAPTURE SIX TOWNS;
TAKE 10,000 FRENCH PRISONERS
Crown Prince Batters Foes on Eight
Mile Line Breaks Through at
QUICK NEWS
PRESIDENT ON GERMAN POLICY,
CABINET FIRM BEHIND WILSON
Resolutions in House and Senate De-
f'mand Wilson Prevent Break in
Relations With Berlin and
' Warn Americans
iryan Takes Hand in Fight
president, unierenct: r una to neai rreacn.
Party Leaders Promised to Delay
I Action, but Fail
ft ; ;
Riimself against Congress on the question of the policy of the United States
!. 1. ...111. "Inrvmnx
Mn dealing wini viw. ...... .j.
f- Irf the Senate anil the House, despite efforts of the Democratic leaders
htho1io.fi promised lo prevent action in opposition to the President's policies,
-resolutions were introduced, caning upon
with Germany and to warn American
'. Former Secretary of State Bryan also took a hand in the fight and in a
i.Wnm to Representative Bailey of Pennsylvania, openly advocated a revolt
-mtainst the President's policy.
0pposition in inc ounuiu iu mi- . ".."" - - - ; , ."
ly Jones of Washington, asking the President not to break off diplomatic
relations with any country and not to place the country in a position where
it could not with honor avoid war. The Senate was kept from an outbreak
over the issue by being thrown into an executive session.
Senator Gore also introduced a resolution, which was laid on the table.
In the House a resolution was also offered, but action was sidetracked
kv the floor leaders.
' .v j,, DpIuUImc the tlrrnmn OITeiiile In Printed oil rK 0.
i AVASHINOTU.N, tei. ;
imlnv culled upon
El rresiuent now..
j.i If'lluiirt
BpeiUer Chump Clark. J fT,
lp .Tj. wi..i,i n.,.l Tlenrescntlitlve Henry
:r ...j i. nf thn House For-
6 . . . ..-l- n.n.niiiKi. tn end all ngltn-
ffuJirfor interfeicnco by Congress In the
International siiuauuii. i- .......... --
lour the entire situation was canvassed.
" The President stood squarely oil his let
.l.r to Senator Stone, made public last
'i.liht He Insisted that the honor of the
i United States was nt stake ami inai
there could be no oacninK """" '"'" ",
position taken that the rules of Interna
tlonal'law shall be obse rved by the Con
,,.1 Kiimnnan Powers In conducting their
mibmarlne campaign.
,f m,. -Mn,ih Democratic leaders torn mo.
Preiitaent that they would do what they
tmfii. to prevent any Interference by
P Congress ,umii u uiim..i..- , ,i
H? hwMha,UBteU. .They wnL OTpcd :
eWtfohnho 'AVhfte flouts to Oft Cnl-
pltol to take the matter up wu ......".-
Tntr h had returned to the Capitol,
Bpeiker Clark said: - ,,
n think that the cnanoea uru n ..
-,.,. .m ninntii thtH threatened per
formance until after March IB, or per
haps until after April 1. There are ru
mors to that effect."
rphcnA.iii-a.. Dniii tVint If fiermany did
pastjpona her threatene dactlon the ex
citement in trie Jiouae wuum ouw.....v.
ally postpone Itself.
I A resolution to prevent the President
. ..-.i .ttlAn.ott. rAlntlnnM With
.ju uwn aDtciuifi iih,iwii...v. ,. -. -- -
R'Oermany before obtaining the consent or
fiL Congress wbb Introduced In ConBrcss to
Rdy by Senator Jones, of Washington
K The resolution. In the preamble, bitterly
darraigned the "arbitrary action" of the
EPreeldent. and declared that "no one man
ini me sole cusiouian oi o nuii
honor."
A (h ri.ina nf Ronnlnr stone, chair-
man of the Foreign Relations Committee.
.ISeTesolutlon was laid on me laoia umu
tomorrow
THE JONES RESOLL'TlO.V.
In part the Jones resolution read:
"WVinmna ViIb 1r ft CinVPrnmCnt of
the people, by the people, for the
people ana not or uny uiuiviuuui u.
for any Individual, and,
Tt'liAMii n If la ttnnt wa imf ilk tllA
fundamental principles uf our Govern
ment that tlie people louiu ut -Tolled
In wor tlirnugh tlio ilerlHlon
r by tlm ort of uny one man, and
"Whereas the Constitution of the
Unlttd States of America expressly
provides that the 'Congress shall have
TwMrai- n Huiinrn wnr. tn raise and
upport armies, and, to provide and
uiaimaui u navy t uiiu
"Whereas, the act of declaring- war
ehouia not be merely the ratification
ana confirmation by Congress of the
judgment and decision of a single man,
Continued on I"ae Four. Column One
tXXlJll VV XLiiXiTlJiXV
The.re Is Borne question as to whether
lUlam Penn wrote home to England that
la climate of these parts was only con
stant In Its Inconstancy, or whether he
Jroie that it was only consistent In Its
incontlstpnnv. Va rAfllRA to ko to a
tyttk and look up the exapt wording.
uracy In quotation Is a pedantic trick
HX have no desire to learn. Pedantic
uracy about eyents of the past is aust
Sfwd; It Is usually the kind uf accuracy
,yi oeniea the essential trutn. Home peu
SW.Wem to value life only In so far as
wey can disprove the Betsy Itoss legend.
"Ml they are really trying to disprove Is
Wrtg,tlsjji. as a rule, Perhaps it was not
iit(iam, Penn who wrote) the above;
ftaybe, (t was only somebody of the same
;$arae who lived at the same time. In
njr event it Is Interesting to realize that
,w4 I'hlladelnhtn. wnn tlm n:nha as to
ther in the seventeenth century as It
J 'n the twentieth. It gives It a new claim
iWon our affections. Some people are only
pntUtent In their Inconsistency.
Ana tha,t usually itiakea them all the,
tore Interesting.
FORECAST
For Philadelnhia and
IS - rnuaaeipnut ana vicmiiy
vicinity
p.-- uiemooii fouoweu vy tieur
WQ aa slightly colder tonight; Sat'
W(aay fair; strong northwest winds
MgMnUhino late tonight.
y vr u fans see page ir.
LOST AND FOUND
OT.N TERRIEIt Lot. liotoi terrier.
i SSS" vb;"dl. white pencil mar between
' 10- Jby-i Pet, vicinity elut aud Christian
l?.1. Return ,. am f'hrfaM.i!i nt.. or ihone
,JUol toil w rtewrd.
CK IUNDBAO UD3T. conUtniw key. J
twee cuini! and munTy. In Barlne t r.
li"-Utry I rwur,r. I-j.II LscUIt 1)00-
Iiuf ah A- .... ihMiap. IT ft dark
!&.&, tmlarBias it to Mr. 0. X,
JmK It u4 I'euoi At a rt l
Urges Opposition Against
mr. wuson not 10 nrcaK on reiauons
citizens not to travel upon armed
. '
BREWERS' OFFICE
HERE IS WATCHED
BY U.S.MARSHALS
Slush Fund Probe Leads to
. Guarding Philadelphia
Association Doors
HUNT
v.
FOR WITNESSES
United States ofllclnls today are guard
ing the ofllccs of the Philadelphia I-agor
Beer Association and tho Pennsylvania
Ilrewero' Association at Uoom 1K01 Land
Title Dulldlng. The nctlon is in connec
tion with the Government investigation
now proceeding nt Pittsburgh Into alleged
illegal contributions by brewers of tho
State to political campaign funds.
United States District Attorney Francis
Fisher Kane is assisting tho Pittsburgh
icpresentntlves of the Government In the
Investigation. Ho said today: "I have
been trying to locato two or three im
portant witnesses at the request of Mr.
Humes." Mr. Kane would not say who
they were.
Deputy United States Marshal Edward
T. McCaffrey and a special agent from
the Department of Justice appeared at tho
brewers' olllces early today. Tho men bo
Kan the watch there when they found th
olllces locked, and were ready to Interro
gate, and, If necessary, take charge of
any person who entered.
OlPJi AS WITNESS.
Miss Katherine Gallagher, the 18-ycar-old
stenographer, who served as confi
dential secretary to the officers of the
brewers' associations, and who was sub
poenaed yesterday, Is In Pittsburgh to
day, having taken tho 11:15 p. in. train
last nlghtf She was questioned for a half
hour by a Federal agent before she left,
but answered every question with "I
don't know."
While a United States marshal was
seeking Charles F. Kttla, secretary of the
Pennsylvania Brewers' Association today.
It was said at his home In Swarthmore
that he had gone to Pittsburgh. Two
weeks ago he pleaded Illness.
In the meantime. John P Gardiner, of
this city, piesident of the association,
Edwin A. Schmidt, of this city, treasurer
of the association, and Gustav A. Lem-
t'ontlnned on I'mre Two, Column bx
LE PMDITErNEMiCHE
NEL MARE ADRIATICO
Tre Sommorgibili ed Un Idro-
plnno Austriaci Distrutti
dalle Navi da Guerra
Italiane
Un comunlcato ufllclale del Mlnlstero
dellu Marina, rlguardsnte 1'attlvita' delia
flotta Itallana nell'Adrlatlco, nnnunclu,
chu tre sottomarlnl austriaci ed una
Idroplano sono statl distrutti dalle navl
Itallune, la cut attlvlta' e vlgllania sono
state cosl' grand! che- gll austriaci non
hanno potuto (mpedlre in oleun niodo (l
trasporto dl truppe a d munlzloni dal
1'Italla aU'Albanla. II oomunlcato utll
dale dice:
"Sin dalla mets" dl Dleembre 260,000
uomlnl sono statl trasportatl tra a costa
Itallana quella albanese sotto la scorta
dl nayl da guerra Italiane ed alleate.
Inoltre 30,000 tonnellate dl provvlste, per
cul sono statl necessarll 100 piccoll plro.
scsfl, sono statl trasportatl alia costa,
albanese. Duere, parecohl prtnolpl, mlnla
trl. personaggl pblltici e mllltari hanno
attratirsato J'Adrlatlco con tutta slourez
id, e nonostaute 11 fatto che I piroscafl
navlgassero tra puntl ben conosciutl. II
nemlco non rjusci' mal ad ostacolaro le
nostra pperaxloni, .
"Sottomarfnl neralci tentarono dl sl
urare i piroscafl per 19 volte ed II mare
. vuan umlnalo dl mlno ner lntera
miglla, Ancora. plu" speaao -aeroplanl. spt-
. ..-ini .n.,.lnlnrnu1lnlem fid lnrrnrl
atorl esegulrono attacchl comblnatl. Solo
tre piccoll piroscafl furorio perdutl da nol,
una perche sllurato e due perche' urtarouo
.., mina II neinlfA InvecA nerdatte tra
sottomarlnl ed un Idroplano."
U.eggtre in '" I'agina le u)tlm e piu'
dettusUat notUia euiU guerra, In
lla-no. . . ,
HANDLING THE INTERNA
TIONAL SITUATION
Above is Senator Stone, chairman
of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, who is solidly with tho
President, and below is Represen
tative Flood, chairman of tho
House Foreign Relations Commit
tee, who favors some concessions
by the President to meet the views
of the House
GALE RUSHING UP COAST
Warnings Flashed to All Parts Rain
Falls Here
Warnings that a heavy northwest gale
Is moving up tho Atlantic Coast, were
llaRhcd to all tho seaports, this nfternoon
by the Weather Hureatl. Tho velocity nf
the wind Is Increasing and a drop In the
temperature may be expelled bj' nightfall.
Kaln Is falling today on Philadelphia
and part of tho Atlantic coasf! .
Tho heavy snows that nrt reported from
New England and New Vorl. and the lake
region may bo duplicated here bpfore
nightfall, according to thp forpo.'iW..whlc(li
'sitj's; that ccAistnis'o vessels will be 'fur
ther endangered, probably until tomorrow
afternoon. Tonight will bo colder.
During the Jast wet 21 hours' .017 of an
Inch of rain fell. The Weather Bureau
Bays tho drtzzlo may turn to snow.
REV. C.E. ST. JOHN DIES;
WAS NOTED UNITARIAN
Pastor of the First Church Suc
cumbs After Short Illness.
Preached Last Sunday
l'lioio ty Outekunat
REV. C. E. ST. JOHN
The Itev Clint les E. St. John, pastor
of the First I'nltarlau Church, S2d nnd
Chestnut streets, died at his home, ii
South 22d street, at 10:30 o'clock this
morning.
Ills wife,. Martha 13. St. John, and lo
sons, lCverett, 27, and Harold, 23 years
old, were at his bedside when the end
came.
Iloctor S.t. John had suffered with heart
trouble for beverul years, but ho only
became seriously HI lust Friday. He
preached Sunday morning, however, and
was forced to go to bad that night.
Doctor St. John was born In Prairie du
Chlen, Wis., December 19, 1858. He was
ordained for the Unitarian ministry In
1883, and June 28, 1888, married Martha
B. Everet, of Dover, Mass.
Doctor St. John'a first charge ws the
Second Unitarian Church at Northamp
ton, Mass. In 1891 ho became pastor of
the First Unitarian Church at Pittsburgh.
He began his pastorate at the First Uni
tarian Church, this city, in 1907-
Ho was secretary of the American As
soclan In Boston from 1900 to" 1907, Ha.
was a trusted of the Meudville, Pa.,
Continued on I'use Tbrrr, Coluuiu One
Postmaster's Caution Foils Yeggmen
13LKTON, Md., Feb. 25. The band of
yeggmen that Is robbing postonices on
the Eastern Shore vjsited the Chesapeake
(Jlty postoffice at an early hour this morn
ing. An entranco was gained Into tha
building by forcing a side door Hvery
drawer In th olllce was ransacked, but
the yeggmeu fulUd to be rewarded for
their night's work, the postnuster having
tbkea the mww) and stuuuw to hU home
uhMi be eJoscd the ultica for .the night.
st a H00 Una tor carrying concealed
weapons.
Centre and on Right and Left
Wings Terrific Slaughter
Teutons Only Five Miles From Stronghold Two Miles
From Outer Forts Champ Neuville, Cotelette,
Marmont and Chambrettes, Fortified Vil
lages East of Meuse, Occupied
By batUring assaults, the Germans have smashed their way forward
on an eight-mile, front, capturing six vitiligos and farms north of Verdun
and taken 10,000 prisoners, Berlin reported this nfternoon.
Not only the French wings, but the French centre, has been hurled
back to within six miles of Verdun, the Gorman Wnr Office reported. The
Crown Prince has stormed nnd tnken the heights of Champneuville, barely
five miles from Verdun, in the bend of the Meuse River.
The Germans captured Champneuville, Corcllette, Marlmont, Beaumont,
Chambrettes and Orncs, villages or groups of farms extending in a line east
from the Meuse nnd less than two miles from Verdun's forts. The French
centre has been broken and hurled back upon Louvemont, as the wings
crumpled under terrible German attack. .
Tho official statement from the French War Office, while claiming that
the German Verdun offensive is being halted, virtually admits the capture of
Chnmpneuville, Benumont, Ornes and the villages and farms between.
"We are organizing new positions behind Beaumont, on the heights of
Champneuville and south of Ornes," reported the French War Office, with
out specifically admitting the losses of these villages.
Berlin reported that French prisoners have now increased to 10,000
and that French losses under the Crown Prince's onslaughts have been very
heavy. In answer to the French claims that the Germans have suffered
enormously, the German War Office declares that the Teutonic losses thus
far have been only whtit might be expected in an offensive on so gigantic
n scale.
10,000 CLOTHING
MAKERS STRIKE ON
LEADERS' ORDERS
General Walkout Follows De
cision of Union Chieftains
. , to Enforce Deniands foij . -Wage
Increase
MANUFACTURERS FIRM
A strlko of all clothing tailors was ord
ered this afternoon by Frank Itosenblooni,
a member of tho executive) committee of
the Amalgamated Clothing WorkerH of
America. Itoscnbloom, who enmo here
from Chicago, predicted that by Monday
there would bo from 8000 to 10,000 work
ers on strike. Most of them are men.
The strike call Issued by Itoscnbloom
wn.s printed on big plucaids In ICngllsh,
Italian and Jewish, and the cards hnd
barely come from tho presses when hands
of strikers in CO and 100 crowds came
inarching down I'lne street to attend a
workers meeting nt 2.10 I'lne street. Other
meetings are being held at ("ianU'k Hull,
8th and Lomlmid atreots; Majestic Hall,
Ith and South streets, and Lyric Hall, 6th
nnd Carpenter streets.
ORDKlt TO STIIIKH.
This was the order:
General strike of all clothing tai
lors of Philadelphia declared.
All clothing workers such as eul
tcrs. trlmmpis. tailors, coat ptessers,
pants tnnkers, vest makeis ami others
of tho trade are ordered lo leave their
shops at once nnd not return to work
until their Just demands will be
grunted to the uuloi1. Remember,
united we stand, divided we fall.
Stand by your union and be vic
torious. All woikeis nre requested to do
their duties peacefully. Iean your
shop. Have no arguments. Make no
disturbances. Come to your hend-
Contlniied on I'uire Tim. Column Tlirrr
AUTO THIEVES STEAL
DIPHTHERIA GERMS
Culture Tubes Gone When Phy
sician's Abandoned Car Is
Recovered
Thieves who look the automobile ofDr.
Milton F. I'erclval, 2332 South Broad
street, from in front of the College of
PhyslciaiiB and abandoned ttw enr after
stealing several diphtheria culture tubes
from it. may pay dearly for the robbery,
according to heal'h officials. If the tubes
are opened and the contents smelled or
tuMed, it Is asserted the thieves will, In
all probability, contract the disease.
The culture tubes were the only ar'lcles
left In the automobile by Doctor I'erclval
last night, when he Uent Into the college.
Lpon coming from the building, more than
an hour later, he dlscoveied the theft and
reported it Immediately to the police. The
car was later found abandoned at 33d and
Walnut streets with the culture rubes
missing The automobile was a Ford,
valued at ?400.
Dr. . Max Goepp. Ill South 18th
street, chairman of the commltUe on pub.
lie education of the County Medical So-
clety, referring to the theft, said:
"The possibility of their contracting
diphtheria Is remote, but It is by no means
impossible. It Just depends upon how
close an Investigation they make of the
contents of the tubes and whether any
contagion lodges in tho throat"
Another Ford was stolen last night. It
was owned by William Whitman, (i yarn
merchant, with olllcos at 309 Mariners and
Merchants' Building. The car was taken
from Broad si reef and Susquehanna ave
nue and was recovered at 32d and Seybert
streets by Detsotlve tJuawa Two men
carrying tires thought to havs bn stoWn
from the machine were seen by Policeman
Blrney, of the UHJl and Oxford utreata
poMoe statUw, but ihey escaped after a.
chase in which they abandoned the tires.
UKRI.IN. Feb. I!!".. Six more positions
fortified by the French for the defense of
Verdun upon the north have been captured
by the Germans, the War Olllcc announced
today.
Thcso places aro listed as "fortified vil
lages nnd farms" In the olflclal report.
They follow: Champneuville, .Beaumont,
Cotellette, Marmont, Ornes and Cham
brettes. The German battlo front is now only
four nnd one-half miles north of Verdun.
Tho following is tho text of the olllclal
report:
"On tho right bank of tho Meuse tho
successes already reported have been cx
ploltcd In different dltectlons. Yesterday
the fortiiled vlllagos and farms of Chnmp
nouville. Cotellette, Marmont, Beaumont,
Chambrettes and Ornos were captured.
"In addition nil the enemy's positions
as far as the Louvemont rldgo wore cap
tureil by storm.
"Sanguinary losses were indicted upon
tho enemy. Our losses were normal.
"The number of prisoners taken by us
was Increased by more than 7000. Tho
total now numbers more than 10,000. No
Information can be given in regard to the
booty and supplies captured."
PAHIS. Feb. 25.
French troops have evacuated Beau
mont, ri miles north of Verdun, it was
olllclally reported by tno War Office to
day. It was announced that tho French have
established their lines behind Beaumont,
along the heights east of Champneuville
and south of Ornes.
Thoro was n comparative lull In tho
lighting on the west bank of the Meuso
Inst night, the Wnr Olllce speaking of the
fighting as being "less violent."
The Germans, for the first time In four
nights, did not deliver any attacks during
the darkness.
Beaumont is tho fourth fortified village
north of Verdun to bo evacuated by the
French. the othors being Haumont,
Brnbant-Sur-Meuso and Hnmogneux.
Champneuville lies above a big bend
of the Meuse Itlver, Hvo miles north of
Verdun. It occupies tho western hank of
a chain of hills stretching north and
southeast of the Meuse Itlver.
The admission of the retirement of the
French behind Beaumont Indicates that
the Germans have gained approximately a
mile more of ground.
The text of the communique follows:
"In the Argonne, to tho east of Vuu-
Continued on Page Vle, Column Three
DAVID T. WATSON,
NOTED LAWYER, DIES
Leader of Pittsburgh Bar and
Defender of Late Senator
Quay Succumbs to Illness
ATLANTIC CITy. Feb. 25 David T.
Watson, of Pittsburgh, who was regarded
as the leader of the bar of western Penn
sylvania, and one of the most brilliant
advocates before bench and bar In the en
tire State, died here In the Hotel Traymore
today. His family In Pittsburgh was noti
fied at once. He was 72 years old. His
death was caused by a severe attack of
grip from which It was believed he had re
covered. He was taken 111 about tho first of Jan
uary, and came here with members of his
family In a special car. bringing his
family physician, with him. For a time his
condition was regarded as serious and
four leading New York specialists were
called Into consultation with the family
Physician and physicians here. Mr. Wat
son's condition, however, improved bo
steadily that It was thought his complete
recovery was assured. This conviction
sent the New York specialists home yes
terday morning. J.ater in the day there
was u change and Mr. Watson was order
ed to bed. This morning he grew worse
and expired suddenly.
David Thompson Watson was born in
Washington, Pa., on January S, 1811. Ills
great uncle, Dr. John Morgan, wan pro
vot of the University of Pennsylvania
and at one time surgeon general of the
United States army Mr. Watson was a
graduate of Washington-Jefferson Col
lege and also of the Harvard Law
School, and began to practice law in
Pittsburgh lu 18S8. shortly afterward
forming a partnership with James Beech,
-5 flpw
Continued va Page Three. Column Two
RUSSIA TO FLOAT $50,000,000 WAR LOAN IN jU, S.
NEW YOUK, Feb. 20. Arrangements for a Russinn loan or
$G0,C00,000 to be floated in the United States for the nurnose of buy
ing ammunition and other war supplies will be completed within tho
next two weeks, accoidlng to reports In Wall street today.
WILSON REINSTATES DETECTIVE DUEY
John Ducy, a detective who resigned during tile Blnnkcnburg ad
ministration in June, 1013, to go on the Pension Fund, was reinstated
this afternoon by Dhcctor of Public Safety Wilson. He was ap
pointed a policeman In 1880.
IMMIGRATION CHIEFS CONFIRMED BY SENATE
WASHINGTON, Feb. 23. The Senate this alteration confirmed
lidwnid White as Commissioner of Immigration at Sim Francisco and
llctram N. Stump at Baltimore.
VAST ICE FLOES HEAD SOUTHWARD IN ATLANTIC
Ice In the northern Atlantic is beginning to break up into dangerous
Ileitis of lec nnd Is on its way south, according to a wireless received nt tho
Ilyiirngraphic Olllco from the British steamship Brlndllla, off the Banks of
Newfoundland. One of the fields, belonging to tho kind that sunk tho Titanic,
was 20 miles long; another, of soft ice, 60 miles long and 25 miles wide.
MUNITION PLOT DEFENDANTS MUST STAND TRIAL
WASHINGTON, Feb. 25. United States Commissioner Taylor today over
ruled a motion irmdo on behalf of Herman Shultels, H. B. Martin and It. H.
Fowler, oillcers of I-nbor's National Peaco Council, to discharge them from
the Federal Indictment charging conspiracy to restrain shipment of war munitions.
Tho Indictment was returned nt New York. Attorneys for the three men
announced they would Immediately apply for a writ of habeas corpus to transfer
the cases from the New York court to tho United Stntes court hero.
U. S. COURT HEARS $25,000,000 CUSTOMS SUIT
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2i". A legal contest for $25,000,000 In customs duUcs
was fought In the Supreme Court today between the Government nnd New
York importers. The question at Issue was whether the so-called 5 per cent,
discount clause of the Underwood tariff act was operative, as asserted
liy the Importers, or whether it was inoperative, as asserted by tho Government.
Tho clause provides a 5 per cent, discount in customs duties, which is to bo
paid to importers who bring their goods to this country In American bottoms.
If tho Government loses, the Treasury Department will have to refund $25,000,000
to the Importers.
STATE MAY BUY LANCASTER PIKE
State Highway Commissioner Cunningham will come to Philadelphia from
Harilsburg Monday to tako up with representatives of the turnplko company
the mutter of put chasing the Lancaster pike from tho city line to Paoll. Tho
owners will submit a price. The commission hopes to hnvo the toll gates
down along this stretch of road before many months.
LINER REPORTED VICTIM OF QERMAN BOMB
HIO DB JANRIRO, Feb. 25. According to a Bahla newspaper, n box con
taining a bomb was put on board tho Lamport & Holt Line steamship Tenny
son at Bahla through the machinations of a Gorman merchant. , An olllclal
Investigation Is being mode. Tho Tennyson put into port at Maranhao on Feb
ruary 21 In a badly damaged condition.
U. S. PROTESTS IN CHINA CASE
WASHINGTON, Feb. 25. Tho State Department today protested to Great
Britain against the removal of 38 passengers from tho American steamship
Chlnn, of tho China Mail Stenmshlp Line, by a British cruiser. Tho British
cruiser overhauled tho China when It was two days out of Shanghai on Its way
to San Francisco. Tho Stnto Department received n report from the Consul
at Shanghai, but has withheld its contents. It Is understood tho 38 passongcrs
taken from tho China aro of German nationality. The State Department is
believed to have demanded their immediato release by the British Government.
FARM SPECIALISTS LIABLE UNDER WORKMEN'S ACT
The farmer who specializes is not exempted from the requirements and pro
visions of the workmen's compensation law, under u ruling issued today by
tlie Compensation Bonrd. Tho board In its ruling specified that "those engaged
in tho business of fruit-growing, poultry and stock raising, dairying and horti
culture as a business and not merely ns incidental to general farming" coma
under tho compensatlon act. Tho board, In Its latest bulletin, also rules that
private chnurfeursirie under the classification of "domestic servants" and aru
exempt. Tho board also has ruled that per diem municipal and country employe
do not come under the provisions of the compensation law.
LONDON GLOBE DEMANDS STATE OF SIEGE IN NATION
LONDON, Feb, 25. "If this war Is to be won, the whole country must be
placed in a state of siege," tays the Globe. 'Tlaco every one at the disposal
of the Government, put tho whole nation upon certain rations and extend con
pulsion to necessary trades. Let us even do without money temporarily, if
necessary. This suggestion is neither absurd nor Impossible."
CAR SHORTAGE HALTS
POTTSVlLLN, ru Feb. 25. The
the scarcity of cars for shipment
are idle.
SLAVS ADVANCE IN ARMENIA; WIN IN PERSIA
PETROGftAD, Feb. 25. Severe blizzards and snowstorms aro' hindering the
pursuit of the Turks lleeing from Erzerum, according to Tllils dispatches today.
Tho Russian right wing, however, Is making progress toward Rlzeh, east of
Treblzond.
In Persia the Slavs have dislodged the Turks from powerfully fortified posi
tions in the.Bldeswith and Sakhno mountain passes. The Turks are retreating
toward Kermansah, pursued by thp Russians. ' "
U-BOATS AGAIN
LONDON, Feb. 25. A dispatch to tho Dally News from Rotterdam says;
"The submarine activity threatened by the Germans has already begun in the
North Sea. Tho whole of the activity so for reported occurred on Monday, the
German submarines reappearing in their old hunting ground around the North
Hinder and Galloper Lightships."
VIOLENT STORM GRIPS BRITISH ISLES
LONDON. Feb. 25. Tlie British Isles are In the grip of the severest snow
storm of years. Reports from the Continent show that severe weather prevails
throughout Europe. The snowfall in
Ing the snow was from one to several
more than England or Wales. Telephone
PARIS, WARNED OF AIR RAIDERS, LOWERS LIGHTS
PARIS, Feb. 25. The llghtB of Paris were lowered at 11 o'clock last night,
the military governor having issued a warping of tho threatened app'rgach, of
an airship. As the airship did not appear, the lights were turned pn ainltmt 29
minutes to 12 o'clock, when all danger was declared over. ' "r
T
GERMANY TO BAR ALL COTTON EXPORTS
COPENHAGEN, Feb. 25. The Berllngske Tidende says; "Oemum ma
facturera have notified Swedish importers
tion of these goods will completely cease' shortly, as the stocks have been mostly
sold and raw materials cannot bo obtained."
KRUPP MEN LOSE WHEN ESSEN BANK PAIS
LONDON, Feb. 26. A dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph Company fro
Zurich says: "The failure of an important bank at Essen, Germany, le Amwranewi.
It U believed that many of the men in tho Krupp works have lest tbatr aavtoa.-
WORK OF 30,000 MINERS
collieries were shut down today owing to
of products. Thirty thousand employes
RAID NORTH SEA
England began yesterday, and this morn
inches in depth. Scotland has suffe
wires have ben broken down gnersl
ot cotton goods that Germany's exporta
V
J
ldM
