Ssutt
THE WEATHER FORECAST
Rain or snow, with casterhLaleiK to
IT SHINES FOPs ALL
day; fair to-morf
Hlehest temoerature yesterday. JKVYve
l.etalied weather, III ul .mil ni.'l '"' ty'"Mjfk" VagAjsM
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 178.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916. VopiHght, 1M6, (, the Sun Printing and Publishing Aanoeiatioit.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
TERRIFICDRIVE
BENDS FRENCH
LINE AT VERDUN
ricivost lluttlo Since That
of Ypivs in 11M ! Rugcs
mi "Western Front.
UKK31AXS FTVK MILKS
KKOM (JKKAT KOKT
Y:, I'.injre for Howitzers,
lint Hills May 31ake Bom
liiirilment Futile.
.mono ix ma URiVK
srriJKKI) BY KAISKR!
Whole Knits Wiped Out by
Machine (inn Fire, but
Attacks Persist.
t,tial table fifpatrh tu Tun Sin. .
London. Feb. 24. The German ilrlve
r.iuist the French foi tress of Verdun i
further successes last night nnd to
il iy w.lh the capture of the four villages
of llrabant-sur-Mctlse, Haumont. Sailing-'
neux and Ornes. The capture of Samog
r.ux brought the Hermans within five
mlli of the nearest fort of the Venlun
p-oup. Fort Sauvllle. ami at Ornes they
..re about the came distance from Tort
Doiiauninnt
The battle line, which the tcceut Her
i .in gam- hail bent In the centre In I
the wooded country north of lleaumont ,
int.: it lesemblcd n loosely uiawn icucr
M. ' has now been straightened, the
French withdrawing under pressure from
J'r.ibant-sur-Meusc, Haumont and Sam-
ciijN on the western tlank and from
uriHs on the eastern, lleaumont. which
forms the basic of the piesent French )
otic in tills callcnt. is "till hold Int.- out
,.g int repeated ilecperate attacks, j
The Hermans are now in positions
from which their artillery Ire might
. aeh the Verdun forte, and at the same
time they are within range of the French
f .itrcss artillery. The country, however.
i m hilly that erfectlVH nomoartimem.
nould be dllllcult If not Impossible. They I
hiive been within rang;- of the Veidiiu I
ST off".be vXVZi: !
hn in action.
(.crinnil tlnltlpl.v llacK.
T ie olliclal coinmuuhiuO Issued by the
f-i h War Ktllce to-night follows.
We executed a concentiated tiro on
ti emmy oiganlzatlons west of tn
M i m.iih do Chanipagne and south of
ea.i 'c Mari.'-a-l".
Argonne a destructive tire
,s th cctul against the Herman
- at La Fille Morte.
He legion north of Veiduu the j
e . opt. lined to Isnnliard our fiont
.. i c Aleuse to a point south of
1' . ., wltiv tho same Intensity. Tli
n ! activity dicrcased somewhat
I w en Malancourt and tho left bank
cf . Meuse. There has not been
k ,-ifuitiy action In this region.
i.i'iiot the light bank of tho
II- and orncs the enemy displayed
t -.in!" lurv as on the pieccillng day
niiltlplleil his violent attacks.
I'... -'n the ground heaps of deail
." it oeing able to break our fiont.
i1 . wings we haw Inought back
on 1 1 on one side to Im-IiIiiiI Sii'iior
I.. , x. i tlic other to a point Miuth
o 1 1 ii our uitillery has replied
v hi test to tho enemy.
I.) ..me wv repulsed and pnr
. ' . nem.v rccolllioltting Ji.iliy
' . c'ii.!cd to ojipro.icli oiy of our
u .. posts north of St Mm till.
lucre illhle IVrocll.
r.' v . e a' counts itcelvcd from Venlun
to-l. t i i id little to the olllciat com
'Tr i ! They state that the lighting
i u.illy Increasing and that Its
leroc iv incredible.
U iM'i., Itou-set, writing In the
fill, i, th.nks that the Hermans will
)0 . .xte d th. lr attacks eastward and
wc uiM of Verdun, a course which he
or.f ii . would be unnecessarily per
ilous . Fundi having the advantage
( 1 ..ble to mameuvre on Interior
I. no
I
IC.T'
.It .
Jla.
1111.'
fi -loinil opinion, which has been
i i leanl the attack as a gigantic
that of Field Marshal von
.nt In liallcl.l, to-nay is oegin
.d'lilt the iiosslbillty of such a
I'linili' coniincnce is iintns
T icie have heiri no arrivals of
i ir
iu u i ,i, unusual numbers yet
nun. nun i.irioiins In (irTt-n
T' i ..i .. coiiespoiident of Till!
"IiBnii that the consensus ill
- ' mi Herman attempt at
.- ih v., oned Into the most serious bat
'!e the battle of Vpics, In the
i f 1!H I.
I!
ated Hint the Hermans have
"""...ted nhont half k million men,
'w ei, .1, plums of Cliampagne anil
IV .f VI
the coritspoiiiieiii sayn.
"The v emu Field .Marshal Count von
ll.it 1 1. u acting an adviser to the
rr'.ti 1'iline In conducting the offen
"'. ' tint llacseler formerly wiih In
"inm.iini of the fortress, of Metz and Is
tll .oi, ii, ijutetl with tho country."
The pl.n, with which Field Marshnl
'on ll.nilenburg succeeded In Itusshi Is
'"lug r.illimcd, Two hundred thousand
ik ii aie massed on h narrow fiont of
"i'n niibe between llrabant-BUr-Meuso
,r"l L'llerbebols, advancing in closo for
mation twelve tlecp. They are mown
''own l.v machine guns, hut olhem take
up Un- advance again, their heavy ur
t'Hery mllvu all the time.
The Herman losses, are enormoui.
whole units havn liven wiped out, hut
Hie tionps me sticking to the aBsault
"'th w lerfnl tenncily.
rihoiiem say that on the eve of the
'.Mile, (Sen. von Deluding, commanding
the Fifteenth Army Corps, issued an
"rilrr In which he said:
t hope that in this final offensive
C'otiUnued on TAirel Pag.
"THE French line north of Verdun
ucrmun offensive ran from the Mcusc, at n point north of Con
senvoye, In a semicircle into the woods to the northeast and turned
southward well north of Beaumont, continuinR to the southeast, north
of Orncs, to Fromezy and Ktnin.
Four days of continuous flRhtiiiR with heavy losses have Riven
the Germans Consenvoyc, Brnlmnt-sur-Meuse, Hnumont and SamoR
ncux on the western end of the salient, and Orncs further ca'st. Beau
mont, half way between SamoRncux and Orncs, still resists the
German assault.
SCrVlt
Or MILtS
WESTBURN CHASED
BY ALLIES' CRUISERS
Slipprtl Into Port Fiulor Xose.
of llritish Warship
Simk by Orw.
-h
WILL IXTKItX OKILMAXS
iceiof Cahlt De-iintcli to Till: l.
Madrid, via londuu, Feb. 24. Des
nuivhes received here to-dav from Santa
r-vi as de Tenerlffe show that the Hfitlch
, , , 1)lsht
the 'port os,rerday Hyhig the -lor-
'man naval ensign and commamicn oy a
1 i-..,r,n-,n nrlie .'lew. slliioed into the
Canary Island harbor under the nose or
:i llritlsh cruiser lying In port More-
oer. she was pursued probably to the
ice 11 lie limit -bv several Flench ami
.. V.i i ... l.M,
Tin. ( -rma jirlxe crew commander.
Ihiile'vlU, landed the S(. prisoners
ak"n from sK llritlsh and one llelgian
veel. be I ve.l to have been sunk by the
vessel, mo. i " ,. ,i.i,.r Moewe.
V.?..". ::.u- , I; n- UV.tl.nrne ai-
lmmedlatelv lifter th
rival the llritlsh cruiser lying In Santa
. . . - .... . k ... i I,., on uuard
2"o, ,a,.:r tend 7,t IVV"
escape. Heallzlng that his vessel was
loomed to captuie the Herman omcer
........... .. ... i,,..,iifii..lv ifier
,,ult the Spmlsh Pott mi dial. -'"'r
t....,ltn file tirlsonelS ami
l.iie.i..r. . ..
Westburn Just outsnie un inn-u no.'
limit, blowing her up.
The otllcer and Ills prlZ' ciew then re
turned to Santa Cruz to be interned.
Following the announcement of the
........ ir.-mre f if the llritlsh steamer West-
burn in Santa Cruz. Canary Islands, war
oiiiii ii -i.i..
rlHk rates ror an miuui .-.i . "..
ping jumid yesteiday on the nndl" ,
market to J per cem.. '' "
OV II COl Tl'SlloouoiK ii1-' ."v.......
vi iii .ime time, aima.eiiiiv svmpa-
thellc.illv. there was n pen eptlble stif
fening of transatlantic rates. Tlu-e had
lemalned almost steaily for sevvtal
weeks. Local underwi Hers could give
no definite quotations on the trans
atlantic market, hut icpoiten nun
tightening of the situation had been felt
and that It was pracuciuij u.n.uri-.....- ...
obtain insurance on sailings In the
u'"" . . . . 1.1
The situation in regit m iu luiui.- r....-
lngn and long time contractu l taken as
due not so much to renewed activity of,
Herman commerce raiders a to the uti-l
eertalntv that Is felt iu legard to the
...... nf submarine wnrfrtre.
For some time transatlantic rales for
hhipmenttt on vessels oi ueiiiKeieoi iw,
tlonalltv have run between ' and 1 per;
cent to London, Havre mid polntx on the
....t' n.tt of Fngland and Scotland, 1 H
r. ii.'. i.er cent, for Llveipoot nnil points
In Ireland anil the east coast of l-.ngland
Hlll, coH;,,,,
per Ceill, lot .iminiinin
i t to 1 per tent, for li'irls on tho Hay i hnlldlngs cheertd the action, Hesldes
.f'nisciy j the populatlty of ilngland and I'rance
While the meal rates for South At-, the feeling In favor of the Alllrs Is In
, . .." .ki,.in.. which have been running i tensllleil by the fact thai last summer
ilf. 1 '.! li.twten Hi and 2 percent, since the two Portuguese ship uero Mink by a
!. .. ...raiicr nf the Appaiii at Nt wport i (.erniati submarine,
,K..S7 Ve s .v. not v et In en deMnl.ely ts- Po. iugal now has about R-o noo troop
1 ,r ;,ib ls'ho ti tin the 3 per cent, basis of the . under nuns In the event nf war ahe
V"r,""." lormar ltti, ,,Mt "um,",r on
Loniion ma.r- .-v.--." a ..!...!
yesterday afternoon mui in o-i
1 ' ' .Jj .i,,.t ...... will he generally
.. L.rtn Mii.lr.if ll .j oei i-ni. . ...... . .-
Pf " V"'' "' ,.,,.. TllP msmer hi
" Vt,,:dliyH contract reported that he had
fT" ,,nHhe t0 tlnd an easier rate Iu tho
RUSSIAN TROOPS FOR FRANCE.
Ill.ono it Month lo Trnvrl !' Kr
limit mid t'nnmlN.
HyNKVA. Feb. 10 (by mall because of
censor). A scheme to semi Itusslau
dolniem to th French from Iih been
worked out and will be put Into prac
tice within test weekH. The men will
ii. sent to tho Far Kant by the Traim
.Siberian lUllrond and thence to Canuds
nnd Kurope. They will be equipped In
1 "average of 40,000 n month will
be Kent regularly for nt leant llvo
month!.
Soon after the beginning of the war
reports were npread that thousands, of
lluuaian tronpn were on their way to
the wtBtern fiont through KiiRlnnil.
Home rIorl had it that Cosack hurt
actually panned through Dundee, Bcot
tand, on their way to the Channel for
transport to Flanders.
nt the bcglnninK of the present I
1 1
or-
36 TEUTON VESSELS
SEIZED BY PORTUGAL
Ships Intornril nt Lisbon,
Tiikcn by Xnvy. May lb'
L'snl as Transports.
WAK LIKKLV TO ItK KKPLY
Special Cable htepileh to Tn Scv.
l.o.vuos, Feb. i Thlrt-slx Herman
anil Austilan chips Interned In the Tagut
Klvcr at Lisbon were coned eclenlay
, , ,., (.,m.iiider of
the Portuguese nava, division, accoidlng
10 ciesp.mues nom i.imioii mm nC
to-il.iy.
According to the despatches, rapt.
q (h, .,, ,,r ,c
'iovernment In seizing the vcsel. The
Austrlans and CerniHiis in Usbon weie
When . onipletely by surprise at the sud.
den act cn of the ( overn.ncnt. a. were
the people of the capital.
A Lisbon . le-,,., tel. -tat. that the de-
1 ee under which the v cesels wei e seized
was published in the olTlcial (;.:-If.
Thu 1'iemier hi an Interview explained
lint Ilie seizi e oi lie sail was nmoe
"' "r ':"k-
I'.illlameut on Febru.irv 7 last.
The I'oitujilese Minister to fleimany
'.is neeii iisirucieu ny us i .overiuiieiu
,()
uie i.eimaii i loveriiiueu. aim asuiue ior
!oveinmeni that the tights of the own
ers of the merchant Vcel will be re
spected by the I 'nit ugliest.
Some commiindeis of the seized ves
sels piesenled written protests, but none
forcibly resisted tin carrying out of tin
decrie. Four of the vessels captun d arc
c.ip.iiiii or aciiiiK as
capable of acting as auxlllaiy ciulsers
, h,.u.r., rxVK,.d Si0fin tons dlstilace
mfll,
f.pt. Kego directed the capture of the
steamships from the deck of the de
Htmvcr Ciuaillaiia yesterday afternoon,
l'nder the guns of two l'ortiiguese war
vessels he gave the cietv of each steamer
three hours to leave the vessel. The
l'urtugue-.. flag was hoisted bn the ships
nfler they had left and the Portuguese
war vcftls Iheil a salute of twenty-one
nfk
It H thought probable that the Central
Powers will iinuiedlately declare war
, on I'oitugal.
it Im reoi.rli'il th.'it l.-.ir..fitt Minister
cOKta uut iiunounced that tho vessels
worB conlixcateil for use as Portuguese
transports, and that the cause of the
, n,.lon was the lsisslblllty of their dah
. lor' out of rhe river to the onen sea to
income sea raiders or supply nhips. The
.vumsier also touo, nccortiing 10 reins,
that on last Tuesday night the Interned
Ocrinau Mtcamshlp OcUenrels had es
I caped from Fuuchal, Madeira Islandi.
Crowds In Lisbon hailed the seizure
' of too veels with the gieatet Joy ami
uiron''' in ii. un .'i in.- ' i.'t f I iiint-oi
111.. 11,-lntr line
Although tin Poilugue.se Congress has
voted for cooperation with the Futente
Allies whenever Ilie step seemed neces
sary, no declaration of war against Her
many or Austria bar. been marie.
A treaty of cooperation between Portu
gal and (Ileal Hrllnln provided that each
nation shall furnish aid to the other
when callc-1 upon lo do mi hi time of war.
Portugal must send 10,000 soldiers to
the aid of Ilngland should that country
demand them, but so far no such help
lias been asked.
On November S3 Premier Costa Intro
duced In the House nf Deputies nnd
Senate of Portuital n bill authorizing the
(Iovernment to Intervene in a warlike
manner when nnd In tho manner It
deemed expedient in accordance with the
terms: of the treaty, lloth bodleM paused
the bill unanimously.
In tho lieglnnlnir of Hie war It was
reported that Herman troops In Africa
had invaded the Portuguese colony of
Angola nnd were lieing rewstefl ny for
tinriioso soldiers. Later word came that
Oormany IxZ n!mM i& v3my.
On January a last the President of
'ortugal urged the members of thu Con
gress to maintain a union of the political
parlies "o that Ihe Allies may hnvo
reason to ho satisfied with the service
rendered by the rortugucis nation."
FUGITIVE DR. LYMAN !
CAUGHT IN FLORIDA I
AitcsIimI on Yiiehl With i
Much Itoyyiiye nnil A inplt;
Siiiily of Ciisli.
150 A T WAS FKOM CIIM'AdOj
Broker Is Wanted Hen- on !
Clini'jii' of Fraud in Stuwl
iird Oil Storks.
I TvMia. Flu., Feb 21 A in.i ii
In-'
I llovcd to he Hr. .1. ilrant I.) man who
! ha been travelling under many allae
In this Mclnlty for a wirli or more
' ii' HrrcMod to-night aboanl Hie acht
l.eroy, which ne puich.ed lat Satur
day, nt the Kiunll craft hwuhr at an
chor In the acht baln at St. Teters-
burg, twenty mile fiom here
The man under nrret iui imt aiiinu
or deny hli Identity. To the perni-dcnt
I iiuestlonlng be cald : "I hae nothing
to nay." lilt general description, the
baugage he ciurled ami the umi.'niiil
anioiint nf c.iHi anil tcrtllled clieclu".
I how ever, wa imtllclently couliiclug for
, the police of Si. I'eterchurg to holil
1 It 1 11 1 . and he mih Inched over night In
, thi city prlon.
It l Uiiown he airlwd In Tampa ten
il.iyn ago and following the publication
in local papeic of hi" plctuie ulth a
siory oi nif anegeii . mii.-i. ...nu
, use of the nulls to d. friud. h. was ,
recognized, although be had shaved hN
mustache and wa glowing a co.itee.
I .h '. , iVl - i : as .-
rutuil ti -i 1 J 'ill in rni-riinci'. fnttr
teen Of thu bills bell.g Of M 0 each I .-o-iii... ,.-s,...
lie also .Milled a letter of ci.-ht and a ; Across the top of the page advertls.
ceitllled check for t made payable '"''"t in the Am .old Oletvrr. fttid ai-
to bearer and c.irrvlng numeious . n- I lestlng lltst attention. Is thl Inscrip
dorsements. the last one on the list . tlon. the llrsi fom vu.nU In fcate head
being John II. rutnam A. Co. tvpe: "Here 1 the Hvldeme That Will
Last Saturday one large trunk was Forever li.iiun the 1ctm.ui Aitny In the
shlimeil bv express to ,lackonville.
Authorities beie learned to-night that
the trunk Is still thete. When arrested
he had a steamer Hunk, several grip!
and n roll of cleanier rugs.
Saturda) afternoon he negotiated lor
the yacht Leroy, which was brought to
lliU port from Chicago about a month '
ago In two men giving their names ,
as Smith and Olsen. Smith leculvcd
hl part of l ho money and I ( turned f
to Chlnigo, while "len cninranen i" I ,,,, ., llK1,t the Imposition of the
act as fklimer Th- boit wn- lo ';,,, eounttv In 1TT. n now rlngltiK In
delivered Monday at Clearwater, anil
here the man believed to be Lv.nan j
made III.- last pa yme t
m ibnd'Th?: owtreMed'a
" " " . :',r "TC, " ,
see the town. Stories In local papers '
to-day of the purchase of Hie Leroy
nttracied intention In St. 1'etcrshurlt
and an Investigation resulted in a visit
to the boat and the atrest.
Ir Lvinati opeiated a InoU.r.iBe bil-l-nes
urdei the name of John II. I'm
nam A Co. at Hi ll:id street untl'
i.vl.no..v II. .vlien In- ill, mtieared Just
hi Tore pol office laspeclors called at i mans on c.miUitanls nil. I non-coiiibat-the
office to Impute Into the cnmp.tn 's I ants. LngMsli and French prisoners, re
wldelv adverti.-td method of selling o.l polls of detilli.g o: women and chll
storks on the Instalment plan- The in- dien and needles violation of private
spectors learned that Putnam had gone iropertv
awny after drawing ht ncituint from. The whole vlrlt of tin iiilverilsemenl
the Seuboatd Nation.il ll.mk. Since I would tend to a'niise ilie reader to a
liecembti the llrm had tal.ui in J3U0.O0n icallzitlon of the wniei s apimrent he.
In cash and money nideit from stock ! Ilef that the lieriu in w.u fare i- dictated
purcha-els. ' ' a podcy'of Inseps.itt. hale agalntt
1 1., ti... .li.v f..-r pjliiani diliailure the Teutonic opponents and an utter dl-
he was Identified as Mr. Lyman, known
the coiintty over a- a ti rich ipiick 1
ploinoter and plunger, a foinn i' meinbei
of the New Voil. St oi I, llxchalige. who
Is under sentence of Unci u moiiins mi-
nrlsiinnient In lais Angi li s for ujnig tin ,
malls Iu op.-ratmg a si.ieine in un-
Panama Mevelnpment Coutpany
Since Lviii.tn's ilisappearain . the
seaich for him ha gone all over tin
country ltondmeii who wauled him
night as ardently n piwt omce in-t
GAINSBOROUGH FOR U. S.?
I.oiiilon llciirx I'll in mix I'nlnllilic
Hut. Heen Holil in iiierlfiin.
.Vi.ei( t tlhle llei-inltrJ, tu Till. M V
LoMKiN, Feb. '.'4. The (illlu Irll-
giuph sa.vs that it understands that
t.US ...e of the belief th.lt .he mls-l.lg '. . ,,. , .. .Hi. lol.d ll. Pal. a- follows; ' hZJ " ' "
broker has been ul.tl . onimuiilcilng ..Wt. WH,. ,'i.at In killing thu.. IHe.-i '' V'", ;"''" ' ' ., " 1 ' J
with friends and relatives In this . ity . lnill H eneinletj. In putting them to i.f. u ""'l- f,f h"fr. '""I1 'n J 1:
by means of code adVf.'.l-c,e,s ,se,tul r.-t H.. In burning their l.ou-es. iu Invad- " K' " 'r J, " "r'm"
111 "-"''" I H.B their ., rltiirie.. e ,l,ply ,.e. form ' f, v " wUhouV'ii, a. w IH, 'a
- - ll u l it "I I ILII ILK lli'i iian' !
naliiHborough -s painting. , view- in tne ouriV.vrs and ie-t content with a he.ut
Mall at St. James's Park" has been sold i full of gi.itltu.le when our guns he.it
to mi American collector fur a pi It e down the children of Satan and when our
much exceeding that whlih .1. Plei - niarvelloiut submai lues Instruments to
nt Morgan paid for Halusboi ouuh's execute the divine vengeance end to
"Duchess of Marlborough," The picture the bottom of the sea thousands of the
Is now In the possession of Sir Aurtley! nun-elect
Dallas Neeld. Hart i "We nui-l tight the wicked with every
The Telegraph arid that the ie.il ptin- means In our power: llielr sufferings
cipalH hi the liansactlon will neither should lve uh pleasure; their cries of
admit or tlenv the sale, which may be ' d. f pair should not move Herman hearts.
diplomatically contradicted, but never- There ought to be un compiomlse with
theless the newspaper believes that the i hell, no mercy for the servants of Sutan ;
report Is irue. 'In other words, no pity for the KngllMi,
' I French and Kussi.in. nor Indeed for any
flTHT. ATHT.T.TES ON HONOR l nation that has ml.1 Itself to the devil.
, by a divine deeice."
l.conslii I nlvt rsK, rusts I hem Hesldes the repoi t of Prof. Morgan the
Tlie Munt n1 Spoon. advertisement also iiuoIcm fiom the rtcv.
, . Fritz Phllippl, a Lutheran clers.vman of
Mil.WAt'KRK. I eb. .'I, The honor sys- UelUl lt lending lo show "the ex
tern Is used lo eiilou-e the training rules .. , ,, v ,m.n,, ,M m0111 perversion
for Kill basketball jriu.vcrs bj tho llf . ,,f ,. Herman clergy resulting
Women's Atlilellc AhsocIiiIIoii nt the I id fllM1 thll ,,n,. hatreds hn.l by the
verslly of Wisconsin, If by chance ali w,,e" The imslor is reported as savins-;
one of the eLihty .voiing women bleaks
(litis ill ti.iinlng are limited in one
dance a week, must pot spoon, nie re- strike without tneicy. They must kill,.
rpilied lo linve euht consecutive hours Inn n and destroy and any half measure I
of sleep every night and may eat notli- would be wicked. Let It ben war wlth- Nr.w.vr.i. N .1, Feb. "I A man rul
ing between meals except fruit, plain mil pity." I sweiing In many particulars ihe desciip
Ice cream, white and graham crackers on n. n vilnee Wnrrf 'tion scut out by the police of ,le,iu
milk. Pie crust, hot blends, tea, colTee " ' I Crones, the aiianhlsl untitled
uud candy are prohibited. Prof. Moig.iu In his tepoil as ptlnted suicide to-night In tin al Island
. .- ,as Ihe bod of Ihe nilvel llsillienl appeal, f, eight yattls of the Cciilial lliillronl of
HIS WAR PROFITS DJSl'JSAT HIM.
C'linnrtlnn
I'alnteil Horse Loses Vnlci..
ToitoSTo. Feb. 24. All uuinlslakable
nubile resentnient agaliist war (line
graft wns i-hoii In Ihe defeat to. day h
W. .1. Lowe of the Ouverninenl ciindldali!
i i.., ii 1...1.
In Peel eounty. Ontailo. .Iiuuox It. -il-
1IH, who wnh ficrui. ny ..i i;mi, .im
ueu-aieii 111 11 iii'.j'.iiij ". ...... ......-,
he had dealt Iu horses for the war. and
mnrii u piollt of 'n;M J' 1 'deliberate tiling on strelcher be.irets. of,
Isiught hoises froin his cniislliiients, had 1 j,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, anil killing of ttoiiiided and
them Inspected and sold them to the Ho. 't prisoners, of cases of "lolsuiely bar-
minion (loverniuenl. one of the horses, ,,rUv such as the discovery nf despatch
I million .tuvei uioeio, 01 un. oo.s.-s,
lil to ohuiul. was puliitc, to ...ee ...,
. ieiUliemen Is. Subee.,ueiilly, he handed
his prollls lo a liw'iil overseas battalion
This was taken as .111 admission of
wrong, nnd not 11 few newspapers of his
own party Joined in the campaign
agatnit hlra.
BRITISH WAR 'AD'
IN DANIELS'S PAPER!
Aiiti - d'tTiiiiiii Appeal Culls on
Aiiicrieniis to .loin Legion
in CiiiiimIh.
CITKS TIll'TON OI'TIIAUKS
Seerelnr.v of Niivy IHscIhIiiis
Any Knowleilfte of Pub
lislietl Pirn.
An ippi'il t' "led lilooilod Amerl-
cane" to ciot 'In- Cnnatllnii finntler
and Join the American l.eglon an np
lieal h.ied on revelations of nllegfd out
racemn bteaehe of the law of war by
t-lerni.iu tiodp appenicd 'mH Sunday
morning in tin. form of a full page paid
advertisement In Hie neHiaper owned
by Secret.iu of the Navy .loseptum
D.inleiH, the It.ilelgh .Vrics nml Dimmer.
Tub SfN ban received u copy of the
p.ig fiom ii correcpondent In North
farolliia, who willed "iherc lc a gteat
deal Ik it lou lointli to go into decent
homey "
Secret. ii y Uaiiieic in W'as'hingtou list
night, when aclted coiirernlrig the pub
lication of the advertisement, cald.
"I have not seen Suitd.iy'8 ,Vtu' nmf
Observer, hut I will look Into it. I am
Hot lictixeiy directing the nfflllts Of the
paper now, and am nothing but ii Cock
holder. I have nothing to do with the
active inai..igcmeiit of the piper."
..... lil!.. I .... 1 1 . , I.. 'C....M.I.1 l.t.Ani.1.1
f(,rth thn statement that the Ainericiin
,,,,, ,.,.. disclaim- Knowl-
eilxe of Willlimi T UriW, rtllose name
ippeais In the adwMlseineiit as lecrult
'" "itnmi. at I.e,l.,ston. Ontario,
nil that they :ne not .id erlNing In
lle of the Civilized World The All
I li.il" of IIItor Itecoril Nothing I.Ike It"
Acro" the foot of the page. In heavy
t.M"'. app.-nrs the following.
"Actos the frontier here me coming
ted blooded American citizens In hun-
,irt.a, thousands to join the Amei
c,,n J.cjjion. They have fell the mil
of ,,e fr(.,.,i 0f democracy. The same
vnUHl,t x,,r, rjI.,tv. as the llritlsh peope
reMTI. UllH ,llPr fort.f,lthers take
theli hearts and '? bidding them tight
; 'humanity.' for peace. For
particulars -address William T.
rory. Chairman .vccru.t.ng Com-
'nlttee. Leaimng.on. Ontario."
War liy lllvlnr llrrrre."
T.ie body of the advertisement, taking
up i.ttir v all of seven columns of tirdi
nary i calling t.vpe, l ilevoted to the text
of a lepott of Piof. ,1 II. Moigan, who.
'll November, I 'ill, was tomiulssloi'ed
b the Seciet.il of State for Home Af
fair, to Investigate In France the tales
of nlleged outrages committed by Her-
icgiml of the low- and principle- of
huminliy Tht l borne mil by the
two tiuolatioiis iiili'.llie.l a' part of the
adverti-einent at each -ide of the page
under the iie.iiinne. i.niu (pioi.uion s
boxed, one eiilltled "1 ne Hc-.iii.in Idea
of Love."
lli utile "War by Mlvlne
Miiree "
The lllsl is taken from Prof. Ithe nhold
'-'"" iai. aivoioiMs '""''.
men m .-ec e,r ;'" 'Per..
1 cneiiilt-. We obey the command or Hirl,
S ho lells ii.. to love them. '
iiio( ii l.t'liittit 1'imlor.
The other iiiiolallon, s.iv. the adver-ti-.'inent
I" from P.itnr Zoebel of the
Lilthel.'ili Church In Lelpsk It leads;
"It I
;hls deep (ousclousnen of our
on that permits us to t ongr.itulale
i ..T)lp (iviu. mission of Heimiiny, oh
,,v r Herman soldiers, therefore. t to
1 Hut i AtuciicaiiH in ngui .igiiinsi (i,r
.many reall;. stippleineiits the 'hyce coin
inltlee's woik, except that the advertise.
i II It'll l ill cci-ii'iiu j iMuiess uewspaptT
noes inn iinine tionii in iesi-i iiiiii4 toe
rilil'll?. to in. un,. ti-..'ii-j, ..iiuase,
hale, lust nnd passion attributed b.v ihe'
writer to ,"a policy of sui'tlor onlers" ,
i .i .. i ...i...........
' ' 1 ' ... ' ' V on ue c(ini III. ,
lallng one iiisI.uk e oi ouiiage t oniinltle.l
upon a woman at Itabuls Ihe writer re-
- ih,h ,u )lKlTm
lls ut . Mi.... ...... . .. ...
Prof. Morgan files many allegril In -
,..,...u iif iiliosi. of th vvlillo lliur nf
i,r tv sm li as the nist
rldcrs hmiil will, pel,
il .,- 1. ...... .1 ......
f'oiilfinii if on .'rctrif I'mic
rOMI'AKTMKXT CARS TO FI.OKIIIA.
psal.nuiil Flnrl.la l.t.l., I'. M. (Jnl. ktsit,
heat equipped Florida trsla. Uq. III! U'wSf,
4fe.
WILSON WARNS CONGRESS HE
WILL NOT YIELD ON U BOA TS;
REVOLT IN HOUSE GROWING
SEEKS PEACE. BUT NATION'S
HONOR IS AT STAKE-WILSON
President Tells Senator Stone He Won't Consent to Any
Abridgment of Americans' Rights; Nations
Must Observe Principles of Law.
Wvsiu.Mmi.s-, l-ytj. Zt. President Wll-
son has tent thin letter to Senator Stone,
ih.iliin.iii of the Senule Foreign Uelatlons
Lummlilce .
Fobru.iry ai. 191 A.
Sir l)i:.vi: SKNAfoii, 1 very warmly
iippteciate your kind and frank letter
of today, and feel that It calls for mi
ciiually frank replj.
Vou an right in assuming that I
shall do everythltsg In my power to
keep the t'nltcd .HlJteit out of war 1
think the country will feel no une.ml
liess about my coume In that respect.
Through many anxious months I
have striven for that object, amidst
dltlicultli's more manifold than can
have been apparent upon the surface;
.ii;J so far I have nuccccdcd. I do
not doubt that 1 shall continue to suc
ceed The course which the Central Euro
pean Powers have announced their In
tention of following in the futuru with
legard to undersea warfare seem" for
the moment lo threaten insuperable
obstacles, but lt apparent meaning Is
so inanlftstly Inconsistent with e
Illicit assurances recently given as by
Hum Powers with regard to their
tiealnieiit of merchant vesels on the
high seas that I must believe ih.it ex
planations will prtseutly ensue which
will put a different aspect upon It.
Can't qurMlon Faith.
We have had no reason to iiiestloii
their good faith or their tldellty to
their piomlses In the past, and I for
out feel coutlilent that we shall have
none In the future.
Hut In any event our duty Is clear.
No nation, no group of nations, has
the right while war Is In pi ogress to
alter or disregard the principles
which all nations Have ngieed upon
In mitigation of the horrors and suf
ferings of war. and .If the clear rights
of American citizens should ever un
happily he abridged or denied by any
such action, we should. It secmt to me,
have In honor no choice as to what
our own course should be.
For my own part 1 cannot consent
to any abridgment of the rights of
American citizens In any respect. The
honor and self-respect of tho nation
Is Involved. We covet peace and shall
preserve It at nny rost hut the loss of
honoi.
To forbid our people to exercise
their rights for fear we might be
called upon to vindicate them would
be a deep humiliation Indeed. It
would b. ait implicit, all but an ex
plicit, aciiulescence iu the violation
of the rights of mankind everywhere
and of whatever nutlon or alleglar.i e.
II would be a dt liberate abdication
of our Ii 1 1 lit' l to proud osltioii as
spokesman, even amid the tin moll of
war, for the law and the right.
It would make cverv thing this Uov
iinmeiit has attempted and every
thing that It has achieved during that
teiiible sttuggle of nations meaning
less and futile
FenrM Mure 4 unt'eiisliiii-i.
Ii .s iiupoitant to rellei t that it
in this inntame wo allowed expedi
ency to take tin place of principle
the door would Inevitably bo opened
to still luith"!' concessions.
once accept a single abatement of
right and mam other humiliations
would lert.ilnly follow, and the whole
line f.ibiic of 'mii-ni.nlor.nl law inl-'lu
crumble miller our hands, plec by
piece What we ale contending for ill
tins matter Is of the very c-eiKe ot
I the things that have made America a
Mlv.r..K nation. She tannot jWJ
lear consciousness of the luuli re
sponsibilities of iu otllce. and as your
sincere h tut devoted friend If we
should unhappily differ, we shall tllf
fer as f I lends, but where issues so
momentous as these nie invuHeil we
must, Jut l"caue we at friends,
T. ,K, ., "" ' """'
I' .1 lllll lll.J ...luir,
Wooiutow Wtisof;
seiiMtor Mime's l.rller. !
Thl. Is Ihe letter sent by Senator!
Stone to tin President, and which called
out Mr. vv lls.ill's epl ,
February ;.'4, 1 ! 1
in.Aii Mn. PitHsiin.NT . Since senator
Kern. Mr Flood and I talked with vou
Mondav evening. I am more troubled
than I have been for many n day I
have not felt authorized to repe.v. our
MAN, MAYBE CRONES,
A SUICIDE IN NEWARK'
Sl(t llilllsclf llllll DiOll ill Il(s-
pitnl KosombloK
Poisoner.
... .. , .. t, - ii.. i. ,
:,:I;:,.n.';Me;:,h, niedeiptiono;
Cones docs not mention these He s
, ,n stt
J.i mes Hospital wheie he
i ,i.,,(i
.......
'r, ,.,, saii last night ih.it
t,,.y would send a man lo Newark hs
1 """ , . ' . ' i ""
. .m(l,..i Clones. From I lie descr Inn. in
j mMshed they weie Mile tin. Newaik
pollen weie mist. men in llielr liletitltlca-
1 in,
willlnm F. heehiiii Urnvelj III,
, ., , . ,
' '"''l';'". r...ii.e. Liet.ten.
ant-Hovernoi. pioiulnent politician ,,n,
1.1 11 . IN rt I M 11111 1 111 ,11 M III Mill' 111
rihi r mj r'nin mi I'fi in1 11. in 1 hi it'll
In health r.ipldl since the death of his
liiiilhcr. John c. Sliielinn, on Feliiu.
,.u 1
COIIlli
in ;i, It whs said list night lli.il his
ltnlitloil vvas slightly Impioved, but
still rcgnrded as eiltlcnl.
conversation, but I have atlc mpted, in
response to numcrotiH linpilrles from
my eoIle.wnics, to Mate to them, within
tho confidences tlnut they should oh
serve, my general understanding of
jour attitude. I have statnl my un
derslaudln? of your attitude to be sub.
Manually ntt follows.
That while you would deeply le
gret the rejection by tlreat llrllnln
of Sir, Lansing's proposal for the tils,
armament of merchant vcsiela of the
Allies wllh the understanding that
Hermany and her aires would not
flrt upon n merchant ship If she
hauled to when summoned, not al
templing lo escape, and that the
Herman warship would only exercise
the admitted right of visitation and
rapture, ami would not destroy the
captur d ship except In circumstance
that reasonably assured the safely of
passengers and crew, you were of the
opinion that If Great Ilrltalu and her
allies i ejected the proposal and In
sisted upon arming her merchant
ships, she would he within her right
under International law.
I'u l.el ruieri S hi pit Clenr.
M-o that you would feel dlspo.ed lo
allow aimed vessels to lie denied from
our purls, al"o that .vou were not
favorably dlspcu'd to the Idea of this
(iovernment taking any definite slips
toward preventing American citizens
fiom embarking upon armed merchant
Ves"els.
Furthermore, that jou would con
sider it vour duty If ,i Herman war
vessel should lire utoii an armed mer
chant vesjtel of the enemy upon which
American citizens were passengers to
hold Hermany to strict account.
Numerous members of the Senate
and House have called to discuss this
subject with me. I have felt that the
members of the two houses who ate
to ileal with this giave question weie
nntltled to know the situation we me
coufroiitln,
, .......
Z" " :d7r".":: . '. '
I think 1
members of both 'houses' feel dceplv I
concerned and di.-tutbed by what they
read and hear.
1 have he. ud of some talk to the
effect that some ale saying that after
nil It may be possible that the pro
gramme of preparedness, so-called, has
some relation to Ju;t such a situation
as we are now called upon to meet. 1
have icunsellt'd all who have talked
with me to krep cool, that this whole
business Is still the subject of diplo
macy and that vou are striving lo the
utmost to bring ,ilnut some peaceable 1
adjustment and that in the meantime
Congress should be careful not to "ball
up" a delicate diplomatic situation by J
any li.tid of hasty and III considered
a -tion.
V Serious slluiilloli.
However, the situation in Conciess
is such as to xcltt a sense of deep
eoiicetn in the minds of c.itelul and
thoughtful men. I have felt that It
is din to .ou to say tlu much
I think you undei stand my personal
attitude with It-specl to this sllhjed.
As much and as deeply a I would
hate to .adlc.illy dls.igite with you I
linri it dittli'Ult fiom my sense of .1 ul i
and responsibility to lonseiit to plunse
this nation Into the vortex of thw
w Tld war litcaun of the uiireasouaiile
obslllt.iey of atl of the I'owets Upon
the one hand, or on the other hand of
fi.o'.h u diness nm muting to a suit of
moral I lea son against th lepubln- of
our own people recklessly risking llielr
Ihis on armed belllgdeiil -dUps, I
t.imiot escape the colli li'tiou Hi.it such
a thing- would be so monstrous as to
l.e Indefensible,
I waul to In with you and to stand
bv you, nnd 1 mean lo do so up to
Ihe list limit: .mil 1 want lo talk
with vou and Soviet try Lansing
wiih the utmost fiatikness to con-f.-r
with ou and have vour Judg
ment and counsel and I want to l.e
kf.t advised as to th llle of
events, .IS It set'llls lo UH' I lllll ell
titled to lie.
Ill the meantime, I am striving to
pit vent anv thing being iloni by nnv
Senator or tneinlsT talculated to
embarrass our ritplomultc negotia
tions. 1'p to the lost you should be
left tree to .id dlploiilalK ally as .vou
think for the best to settle the ques
tions involved. 1 nevd baldly sa.i
that my wish Is to help, nm to hinder
on.
With the hlKhf'l resard and tnoi
sympathetic consideration, I have ilie
honor, Mr Puslilent. to ne vei v sui
celely .ours An .
Wn.t.ivM .1. Stoni:
GIRL SINGER IN CHOIR
STRUCK DOWN IN PARK
nilimllti'l'. (HI Nll to
lit'llt'lU'Mll. Itolihcil 1 1
Xeirro Thief.
Miss I'.thel Turner, il.iuohtei .T t'ie 1
l!ev Charles W Turin r ot 12" West
llldli strict, was knocked down and
robbed carls last evening, while v.i'k
Ins down the sleps near the M.'.'h
stnet i iitraine to iiirnligs.e ',i ;: pv
an iriiiieiiuut'o neKin. i ne i.i.-i s-
H';:'t,i;!:rv"!i,,:;irr;:;,,v,,
' 1 ' "'', ' ,n
.,.,.,. , i the , ontiMlto si
Ht ,u the lit .el, I'lt sln, Icri.ui (lunch ns
well as oiganisi al si i.uucs napei oi
St l.ilki's Hiispltal, wis on her w.iv lo
I n it I- lilie.irslll III 7 So o'clock Itelllg
I. ne nnil in a hui iv she to.'k tne slum
cut thioiigh the park lo the i lev. iied sta
n"n ..no et.-p- mi...
the negio leaped ill h.'i lb struck her
1 .... e. . i.i.. .... i . . .1. ....i .. i
, M. .. i he gr.il In r puis,, con-
, , ' ..' U j,, in.l .
t.i ni k -.-' . I '
. I" ' ..tst 1..1. 11 v -iiiih
-
lie. t
t'.ifii -11 tiiiioned Ihe poll, email, ".ho s,.,i
fm1 " ambiiliun ri.nn lm . kei bucket
IIomiii.ii i .vuns iii.ui'i net wniiiiu
and cnt In. honn ivneit slie wilt l.e
couliin d .1 couple ol U.is tnv icsilil
1 of nor injuries
To Warn Citizens Off
Armed Ships Would II u
iii i 1 in t o Nation.
STIIJ, IS HOPEl'TL OK
MAINTAINING VKACK
Piv.shh'iifs Kail lire lo Son
House Loaders Angers
(IniijjTPSs.
TIIIIKAT TO (JO OVKIt
HIS IIKAI) KKPKATEP
l.Vi'miin.v May Put Off V
Hunt ra.iniaijn. AVasli
ington Hears.
Wvsill.MiTii.s, Feb. 24 l'lesldcnt
WlUoti hat uttered a clear call to th
country to support him against the ef
fort that l being tnndt In Congress, to
abridge tho rights of American? to
travel tin IiIbIi Jtens.
The President declares that such a
yielding hk Is now proposed by tlio
leaders of the revolt lit Congress will
amount to contedlna "the Inipnlency"
of this nation and of .surrendering thu
independent position of too I'nltid
States anion;; the Hove rnnieiits of the
world.
President Wilson set forth these re
matkably strong sentiments in a letter
i to Senator .Stone, chairman of the
. .... llf.l...l.t,U t .,.., t,ltt,.
..lllll.l' 1 IFll-lhll ...... I . I.,.". V
wliU-lt was made public to-night This
"-tier breathes a deep determination
" H" I'i"1 lf t'10 I'rvsldent to stand
unalterably for every right now pos
sessed by nn American citizen, nnd In
Its firmness surpasses even the most
exaggerated accounts, of the Presi
dent's attitude as outlined by him to
leaders of Congress at the recent
White Houe teccptlon
llniiefiil llf I'fHCI'.
Al ihe same time the lcttet ,-iniws
thai the Pre-udent Is MlU hnpeiill of
obtaining an amic.ililo settlement of
the Mibmai me cunlt uvel -y ii ml tin.
! he Is conlldent of hi, ab.lit.v to keep
1 tho country nut of war.
In the communication lie civc no-
tiv't on (.'ongrcss that he will refuse
I to voiiscnt to tlio abridgment l t
I single right now nisscs-cd b.v .nn r-.
. lean citizens.
"We covet pi'.Kt and -hali pie.-erve
It ut any cost hut the '.. o honor"
. was one of the impto-'sivi' sememes
' In tlio Wilson letter.
The I'lesiilent dcii.iies thill for the
L'liileil States to yield to ,ii dbrhlg
mem of tin rights of its unpens as
icgatils ni nnil inereluintinen would be
n "humiliation" mid would amount to
i an in iiuiesci ni I in .i violation of the
! right- of all mankind. Ho declaies
fin ther that such in tion would make
everything that till- novu'nniciu has
i utleiiiiteil and .icli't veil 'meaiilng.
less,"
The I'lCsulcut pledicls thai If iu
. rendet I, made nf tin- right to travel
on aimed nieicliiinttiien it will be but
the beginning of hiitulllutlnns for the
I Fulled States and will ihi-eaten the
fabric of intetiiiitinn.il law ihruugh-
out 111.' Will id.
( tllllllll'IICf 111 l.iroioil.t.
The President lake occasion in this
li'liei to txpiiss for the (trt-t tune h.
coiitlili in e In the good nuili and tldellty
'of tin Herman n.ivctiiutent in leguid
to the piom.-i rilre.idi made
i A letter that Senator Stone wiote to
tin I'lesiilent. vvhli h iilo was given out
to-night, ilNcloits thai the President
I told tin '.ingress leaders that In. was
pupated to hold Heimanv "strleMy ac
iiilltitable" If one of her submarine
sank an armed I. tier wnhoiit warning
mid with the sacrltl. . of American life
This is th,. statement win. Ii membeis
ol Congress constiiied to mean that the
I'lesiilent wa i .-.lily lo go io war If
necesstity in defence of the rights of
Anieiican citizens to ttuvcl on armed
hick ham v.sselp.
1 lie making public of ihe Pie. dents
letter lo St nator Mime came ,i ihe
. Inn. ix to anoilur dav uln. i sol ecn
in'l. h iX'itement un. in g i oe i . ni . of
Congie-s and a glowing deieiimriitinn
among I ieinoii.it c leader- in the luu.
to l"t thmugh eg.s'aiion wmil-ig
.i ii... .... o-. 1 1 ... ii ir.-iiii:i'i en - liners le-
guilliss ot tne President s oppos iim
Tl'.i ll'Voll ni the House 1 nlitiillleil In
give evidi'i). e of Its sln i.gtli. notw.lh
slimline the fact thai issiinin. . weie
.onveved hi Ihe A1ln1111lrt1.it ... .it iie
sttil'ition wilit ( l.Tinaii.v 11.1. 1 ' .ft
Loth SfTeturv Lansing an I . '1. mep
I. els of Ilie ('.linnet hi-. . .1 . -i 1 a'i(li..
111 the I'lesiilent to i" .ii I I. r ,,s
slir.lllies Tile IICIIIOIT II . s I,. ,,
ets. howevei, weie si.pu.nis . . ,..
cause Ihe details n tne 1 mi.. . .
lot foi I Ileum lilt thev 1 mi' nm I t ci
plans to- biluglng the l'i.-de'' In
tel Ills.
Sei lel.liy I. ills nil l.i.i . de . .' In
thiow iiiy light in. Hi. .1-s.1i'. ..-u , .
lie had glVi'll lo llellel .11 . .1' s oil
Hi" iiupi i ss.on .n IV.iwi nsi . ii.- 'on
Lie lilllit.'Vi 'iH'lit tollMf.it 1 1 . ,. ,e.
Iiliis.il lint Herman) w.il ."S' I e
efle.live date of a. l.. si, .., , ,
ice fiotu .Vl.t.c.l i to Apld 1 ,t . ilia
th.- I'mled Stales wil i. in-, i i.. d.s
. lss w.tll tile It.'l U 'llllIlM l.t s tile
ipif-tiiiu nt what .-oi.st '.ut.-- d. ft . li .
U-. inaiiii'iil 'f Heiiiia:i . ai i . i ... ,t
lliiionuo VV llsoo's ( it use.
V. tile sitine tli.i. ll .ii.im e tlio' e .1(1
p.niiit ii-iii tliat : lie uddei Harelip
In Cn.gi.'ss I- id iilieiiili had a iliimag
.no elleel upon Pleitleit I soil's rallS"
ig.inist i ieriiia n.i In Herman quiutcti
the ileinniistration In Congtess was ac
Mim!fc?QKayi1.iVe'Aj'li'i:iit2SAT':
f . -a.: -1 -nnMI .f Ti. II III ll.lll
