yv,(7- ;-
r "JT T "
-ir -.t.
?RTT
-,-F ---j- ..
"'-(JK-- ' 7' -S.t"3,T"
V
Ute "Uhmgfcm
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy Tonight
(Full Report op Page Two.)
HOME
EDITIO
NTTMBEB 8821
WASHINGTON, FRIDAY EYENING, FEBRUARY 25, 1910.
PRICE ONE fflNT.
4-v. y
Hme
WILSON UNMOVED
t
BY CONFERENCE! VERDUN ,
WITHHOUSE HEADS
President Tells Party Chiefs There Must
Be No Compromise in Congress on
The Nation's Honor and They
Promise to Try to Delay
SAYS ACT WOULD
"Congress shall not compromise the nation's honor."
This, in substance, is the message which President
Wilson sent to the Capitol today.
His messengers were Champ Clark, Speaker of the
House; Claude Kitchin, the House majority leader, and
Chairman Flood, of the House Committee on Foreign Af
fairs. They went to the White House early this morning
to tell the President of the situation in the House of Rep
resentatives; and to learn, if possible, whether there was
any basis of compromise between the position taken by
the President in his negotiations with Germany and the
views of those members of Congress wTio 'believe that leg
islation should be enacted prohibiting American citizens
from traveling on armed merchantmen.
The President was absolutely unyielding. Reiterat
ing all that he said in his letter to Senator Stone, published
this morning, the President declared that for the United
States Government to forbid American citizens to exercise
their rights for fear that the nation might be called upon
to enforce these rights, would amount to an humiliation
before the world impossible to conceive.
He demanded, it is understood, that these leaders
should exert their every effort to prevent the passage of
such legislation in any f omu
They merely agreed, it is said, to try. They could
make no definite promlseslDeyond today.
At the Capitol conditions are in a state of truce. As
was the case yesterday, the House only awaits the. signal
to break loose.
In the Senate the Administration forces won a tem
porary respite. Senator Gore, Democrat, and Senator
Jones, Republican, each introduced a resolution bearing on
the question.
Gore's was a modification of the resolution he sought
to introduce yesterday. Admitting the right of Americans
to travel on armed liners, it nevertheless warned them to
keep off.
1 Senator Jones' resolution merely directs that any
question affecting the national honor must be submitted
to Congress before the final die is cast. Chairman Stone
moved that the measures be made to lie on the table for a
day. His motion carried.
TALK OF COMPROMISE IN HOUSE.
In the House there was talk that
Chairman Flood, despite his talk -with
the President this morning, was consid
ering; a compromise resolution, direct
ing the Administration to tako tho pos
lUpn that the caliber of defensive
armament on merchant ships should bo
reduced boyond possibility of tho uso of
this armament offensively and prohibit
ing Americans from traveling on ships
Trying larger guns,
&or this compromise. Administration
fticlals declared, the President never
will stand.
The situation In Congress Is briefly
this:
Tho opposition Is content for the
present to let tho President handle tho
negotiations with Germany without In
terference. Tnb disposition, It Is thought, will
continue up to the point whero these
negotiations reach an Impasse out of
which the United States cither must
declare war or prohibit Americans
from traveling on armed liners. In
face of such an alternative, opponents
of the President Insist, Congress will
acti to prevent war.
Expect Congress To Go Slow.
Kncouraged by a flood of telegrams
and letters which havo reached the
White House from all sections of the
country commending the President's
stand, his friends bclievo that Congress
will not now dare to embarrass his ef
forts. Following ills conference with tho
House leaders the President conferred
briefly with Secretary of Btnte Landing
and then met with his Cabinet. Tho
Secretary advised him that no word
whatever has como from Germany.
Members of tho Cnblmt refused to cay
In Tomorrow's Times Judson C. Welliver Will Discuss the 8-Hour Bill,
Every Government Employe Should Read What He Has to Say.
HUMILIATE U. S.
whether or not tho matter was taken
u pin detnll at the meeting, but they
rejected all idea of any compromise.
Officials of the Administration rtfimo
absolutely to any upon what ground the
President, in Ills letter to Senator Stone,
expressed confidence that he would
succeed In getting what ho demands
fioir. Qernany. Thero seems, however,
to bo a measure of belief that Germany
has already determined to postpone tho
effective date of her new submarine
warfare pending further discussion with
the United States, and that Austria
will follow suit.
The . Resolutions.
Two resolutions Introduced In the Sen
ate this afternoon . both boro directly
on tho present international situation.
Senator Qoro presented his concur
rent resolution to keep Americans from
traveling on tho armed vessels of bel
ligerent nations.
Immediately thereafter Senator Jones
of Washington, Republican, presented a.
Scnato resolution expressing It as the
sense of thn Senate that tho President
should submit to Congress any ques
tions Involving national honor, tho Is
sue of an ultimatum or tho severance
of diplomatic relations.
Whllo Senators and onlookers in tho
gallery held their breath, realizing that
a storm of discussion might brealc out,
both resolutions under tho rules went
to tho table to He over for ono day.
Debato for tho tlmo helng was thus
avoided. Thnt It cannot be long re.
strained, however, Is apparent.
Tho Ooro resolution has already been
mndo public. Whllo calculated to nf
flrm existing American rights at sea,
It expresses It as tho sonso of Congress
that Americans should keep off bel
ligerent armed ships, and passports
should not bo Issued for travel on such
shins.
Tlio resolution of Senator Jones af
firms tho doctrine that this Is a Gov-
(Continued on Second Page.)
GERMAN
MN
is
Artillery Duel Less Violent and
Germans Make No Attack
During Night.
SIX VILLAGES ARE CAPTURED.
Berlin Reports Heavy French
Losses and Capture of
10,000 Prisoners.
PATHS, Feb. 2fi. Tho crown prlnce'a
offensive In the Verdun region is
showing signs of slackening, the war
office announced this afternoon. No
attacks were made during the night,
it wan stated, and the artillery fight
ing has becomo less violent.
French artillery Is now holding its
own along thn twenty-five -mile frbnt
end thoro in every Indication that the
German offensive, temporarily at
least has beon checked.
Tho French, however, are organis
ing new positions behind Beaumont,
And on the heights east of Champ
Neuvllle. south of, Snmogneux and
east of Orni's.
Taking advantage of the lull in in
fantry actions, they are making
strong preparations to meet an ex
pected renewal of the heavy German
assaults.
Hold Six Villages.
BErtLIN (via LondonJ, Feb. S.-Slr
fortified French villages and farms. In
cluding Champ Neuvllle,, five miles north
of Verdun, have been stormed and cap
tured by tho crown prlnco's army, It
was officially announced.
Prisoners taken by the Germans In
tho Verdun offcnslvo now total 10,000, It
was stated.
Besides Champ Xcuvllln, which lies on
tho cast bank of tho Meuse, ono mllo
southwest of Samongneux, tho Germans
havo captured the villages of Cotelette,
Marmont, Chambrcttcs, and Orncs, ly
ing oast of tho Meuse on an clght-mllo
front. ,
French Mosses have been vory heavy
and German casualties only what might
bo expected in the Verdun offensive,
the wur office stated today.
The official afternoon bulletin reports
that tho amount of booty taken by the
Germans has not yet been compiled.
French Guns Hamper
Advance of Germans
LONDON, Feb. 25. The French aro
now checking tho great German drlvo
on Verdun and appear to' bo holding
their own, except at a few minor
points, according to a special dispatch
from Paris today.
The crown price's legions, sweeping
southward, aro now under heavy nre
from three of tho Verdun Xorta.
At the samo tlmo they aro exposed
to a murderous flro from tho n-encn
flc,ld redoubts and trenches In advancer
positions before tho fortress.
Tho -French artillery has maintained
such a heavy bombardment that tno
Germans havo boon unablo to bring up
necdod supply trains, according to
Paris dispatches.
Great battle fleets of French and Ger
man aeroplanes aro In constant clash
high abovo the woods and engaged In
hurling dowo bombs upon enemy artll
lorv positions.
Tho check reported to have been ad
ministered to tho advancing Germans
may be only temporary.
All Paris dispatches today agreo that
tho titanic struggle In tho Meuse woods
murks the beginning of tho Germans
greatest otfenslvo blow slnco tho artve
on Paris was defeated at tho Marne
early In tho war.
Ono dispatch quoted from what nur.
ported to be an ordor of tho clay is
sued by a German corps commandor
Informing his troops that they were
bont on thofr "last offensive in Franco."
Paris Still Confident.
"It Is probable," wlrod the Paris cor
respondent of tho Chronlclo. "that the
whole German force numbers three-
quarters of a million or more. Both
sides being fully equipped and prepared,
tho welRht of artillery fire, now continu
ous slnco Monday morning, is almost
without precedent."
Tho greatest confidence prevails in
Paris. Tho French havo been awara of
tho German preparations for the Ver
dun offensive for many weeks, It Is
stated. French air scouts havo kept
dally tab on the building of new Ger
man supply railroads north of Verdun
for tho express purpose of rushing
troops and munitions for a crand assault
on Verdun.
By capturing Samogncux, six miles
horth of Verdun and other positions to
me east, tno wermans nave arrlvou
within less than two miles of thn fnrt
of Douamont and within easy range of
Tavannes and Vaux, whose guns arj
now reported trained on the thick
masses of advancing Germans.
"it was not until Wednesday that till
the German effectives wero fully do-
ploved npd uUlhsod." said a PnrM Ih-
patch today,
un
Wednesday night tho
battle front extended nn a lino. twiMilv.
five miles long, from Mctuncourt on the
west, half wny between tho Meuse river
and the Argonnc, beyond Fromczy on
tho east.
"The center of tho struggle has re
mained between Brabant and Ornes.
Here dense masses of tho Fifth Ger
man army, rnnk after rank. In old pha
lanx formation, wero thrown against
tlje French trenches abovo llaumont, In
the Caurcs wood, at Herbe forest anJ
horth of Ornes.
FRENCH
Fi
W
SCHULTEIS
1
I.V.
Buchanan's Fellow-Members of
Labor's Peace Counoil Ask
Habeas Corpus Writs.
TO HOLD HEARING MARCH, 4
Argument on the Applications
Will Be Heard by Judge
Gould.
Held for extradition to New York for
trial on a conspiracy charge, three of
Congressman Frank Buchanan's fellow
members of Labor's Peace Council of.
forcd further resistance by applying for
writs' of habeas corpus today. '
Tho trio, former Congressman H. Rob
ert Fowler of Illinois, Herman Schul
tels, and Henry B. Martin, were com
mitted to tho custody of Deputy Mar
shal W. It. Fowler and taken to the
city halt after United States Commis
sioner Anson S. Taylor decided that
they should bo extradited to New York.
Accompanied by their attorney, tho
three men went before Justlco Gould, of
tho District Supreme Cjurt, and asked
that Marshal Splaln aMTCommtssloner
Taylor bo required to show cause why
they should not be released.
Will Continue Fight.
Judge Gould announced that on March
4 he would hear argument pn the ap
plication, rrangements were made for
the renewal of the three men's monds
t for their appearanco on that day.
ine accused men win continue ineir
fight against extradition on the ground
that the Indictments returned against
them In December do not charge a
crime and that the Sherman anti-trust
law, upon which the -dlctmenu are
based. Is not applicable to such an or
fense as they are accused of commit
ting. Commissioner Taylor, who has had
thn case under consideration since the
preliminary hearing six seewka ago,
held In his decision today that clear,
ilrlinlto. and dlstlnot charges were con
tained In the Indictment.
He also held that there was proDa.de
cause for the extradition of the three
men to New York for trial next Tues
day Tho pommlssloner said his duty
was to act solely on the law ana not
determine upop the facUior the appn
cahnity 'of .tho law on which 'indict
ments were' based.
He expressed the hope that the deci
sion today .Would firmly establish tne
fun.ctlons of United States commis
sioners. Charged With Fomenting Strikes.
Tho commissioner said tho Supreme
Court had ruled that commissioners
should consider Indictments as valli on
their face and act accordingly.
The three men, held by the commis
sioner today are accused with Comrrejs
man and others of having fomented
strikes In munitions plants. IThcy are
alleged In the indctment to havo used
money, moral suaxlon. and other oxen
clcs to prevent the manufacture and
shipment of munitions of war to the
allies.
It is aliened by tho Department of
Justlco that Labor's Peace Council was
financed bv Germany to thwart the al
lies In their attempts to obtain ammu
nition and guns In this country.
Congressmen to Probe
Impeachment Charges
Congressman Buchanan's impeach
ment charges against United Mates
District Attorney Snowden Marshall, ot
Now York, who brought about his In
dictment for conspiracy, will be investi
gated by a Congressional subcommittee
noxt week.
Congressmen Carlln of Virginia, Uara
of Ohio, and Nelson of Wisconsin will
conduct tho Inquiry. They will leave
Washington Sunday night. The first
witnesses will bo examined Monday.
Tho Congressmen oxpect tho investi
gation to last at least two weeks.
New York to Get
Army-Navy Game
Philadelphia Loses Because It
Cannot Offer as Good Seat
ing Facilities.
The War and Navy departments
were notified today that tho athletic
committees of West Point and An
nanojja hod decided tp hold this year's
Army -Navy football game at New
York on November 25. Philadelphia
was turned down because it could not
offer as good seating facilities as New
York.
In tho past the navy athletic com
mittee has opposed games at New
iu.k because of the distance The
Navy tbls year had the rlKht. under
an agreement reached last year, to
namo the playing field.
The Polo Grounds rvatlnir capacity
Is so largo that 2D,00o tickets aro
available for distribution. At Frank
lin Field. Philadelphia, thore are
available only -'2.000 seats.
Those with army or navy affilia
tions In Washington aro intorested In
the movement to build a stadium In
i:ost oPtimac Park, where future
Army and Navy games may. be
staged.
Visit New Orleans, Mobile, Pcnsa
cola during Mardl Gras. Low round trip
fares Feb. 28 to March fi. Through sleep
ing cars. Southern Railway, 705 18th St.
Advt.
AND
MM
RESIS
report wmm TO II
U. S. CLERKS' FRIEND!
LAY PLANS FOR FIGHT
AGAINST 8-HOUR LAW
KSs$; "MSBBBBBBBBBBBBBsW
RF ' - i r
f ,EL:'ii 1fL
thrT&iLjBKttiSML 1
JHE92i "S J A ?, 'i
sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssBlsssssssssssssssss7f ' l
HK ; l
sssssssssssssssssssssHsflvC WEfr ssssssssssssH
Bsri - V I
-BHflk? W
lw H s T I
IsBBBBBBBBBsV ni2V ,. ' 1 .W I
sssssssssf iiilBHiLssssssssssssssssssssssf
r -ilIiHr
BL "
yMssssssssWMIsySi I - -
fsssssssH
i ' JBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsV sVJSSSSSSSSsB K
bbbbbbbbH- ' fV
bbbHtWK "'M
iBBBBBKr'3BBBBr " .fl
KIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbUbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW, JbbbbbbbI
RbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbKbs "" JbbbbbbI
PjDBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaKluf MbBBBBBBBBBBbI
pSbbbbbbbbbbHF JbbbbbbbI
.f"S,JBBBBBBBBBBBBB?V'' H4SBBBBBbB
BSiJBBBBBBBaffis." JBBBBBBBBb!
wmA . bbbbbbI BVa- wmM
Per JBBBBk'., iykii.'V' t bbbbbbbbm
' IpiLaBBBBVLlaBflX'V IbbeLbbb!
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV. "' '' aVi bbbbbbH
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBV SBBBt) tbbbbbb
CONGRESSMAN MONDELL
Of Wyoming.
ST. CYRS TO ARRIVE
IN CAPITAL TODAY
Butlers, Chauffeurs, and Maids
Busy Unpacking Effects at
Palatial Home' Here.
Butlers, chauffeurs and maids Joined
today In unpacking tho effects or .Mr.
and Mrs. Jean Harnld St. Cyr at the
ralatlal residence of Nathanlol Luttrell,
Connecticut nvenue and uoiumpia roaa,
which tho St. Cyrs have leased and will
occupy.
Mr. and Mrs. St. Cyr. It was an
nounced at tho residence would .arrlvo
in Washington late today.
The servants expected their master
and mistress at "any mlnuto." nnd wero
on tho qui vlo throughout tho morn
ing and early afternoon to rccelvo
A l'arge touring car belonging to tho
new Washlnirtonlahs arrived In tho city
Inst night. Policemen assigned to tno
section in wmen is locau-u mo -
home of tho St. Cyrs visited tho garage
connected with tho residence to see that
everything was In compliance with
police regulations and tto Inform tho
chauffeur that ho could get a copy or
the traffic reRtilatlonH by npplylng to
station house or to sonic traffic officer.
Most of tho servants were hired n
Now York nnd brought to this city In
charRo of the hoad butler.
Caller at the resVPnco today were
Informed thnt Mr. and Mrs. fat. Cyr
had not yet arrived. They wero ashed
lo leave their caul nnd politely In
formed that they would probably he
given n audience If 'hey vould "call
later."
Eight German Vessels
Seized by Portuguese
i
LISBON, Fob. 2S. Kight German
steamers In the hnrbor ut St, Vincent
have been seized by order of tho Por
tuguese government.
Tho Convenient Wny Augusta Spe
cial for Columbia, Aiken, Augusta. Lr,
Washington, 7 p. m. Jnlly. Southern
railway1. Advt
CONGRESSMAN BYRNS
Of Tdhnessec.
Despite the Holman rule, which makes in order legis
lation on an appropriation bill if that legislation reduces
expenditures, the first skirmish will come over a motion td
strike out the Rorland amendment.
It was held today by several opponents of the amend-',
ment that a strict interpretation of the Holman rule would
vitiate the Borland rider.
It is admitted, howeverthat .the question is ,open to
debate and the Holman rule may be held to apply. In that
event the eight-hour amendment will go to a vote and
chances for its defeat in the House are dubious.
There is more hope of action favorable to the Gov
ernment clerk in the Senate because the upper chamber is
customarily unwilling suddenly to overturn an existing
condition without careful investigation.
It developed today that Congressman Joseph Byrns
of Tennessee, one of the two Democrats in the Appropria
tions Committee who voted against the Borland amend
ment, now feels that he must support it on the floor.
RIDER BEFORE FULL COMMITTEE.
Mr. Byrns was chairman of the subcommittee that
framed the legislative bill and the Borland amendment was
never submitted to the subcommittee, but instead was un
expectedly presented to the full committee.
Congressman Byrns will have charge of the bill on
the floor by virtue of the fact that he was chairman of the
subcommittee. Nevertheless, he informed The Times to
day that the Appropriations Committee having, voted over
whelmingly for the Borland amendment he felt it his duty
to stand by the committee on the floor.
"I voted against the eight-hour amendment yester
day," Mr. Byrns said, "because we had had absolutely na
investigation of this matter and it came up unexpectedly
in the full committee. 1 thought'that we should hold hear
ings on the subject and not act so speedily on an important
amendment of this kind. However, the committee voted
in the amendment and I feel that I am duty bound to stariri
with the majority of the committee, as I am in charge ofi
its bill.
DISCUSSION NOW IS PREMATURE.
"It would be manifestly improper for me to cjiscusfl
whether or not a point of order is germane. By discussion.!
of this feature at this time it would be premature and Im
proper."
With the announcement of the decision of Mr. Byrri's"
it became apparent today that Congressman Mondell of.
Wyoming, a Republican member of the .Appropriations,
Committee, must assume the brunt of the' fight for the
Government clerks.
Mr. Mondell will not only oppose the Borland amend-)
(Continued on Pago Eight.)
u
CAMPAIGN
TO BE WD
IN
First Skirmish to Com Over
Attempt to Strike Out Bor
land Amendment. , '
EMPLOYES' HOPE IN SENATE
Upper Chamber Always Slow to
Overturn Existing Condition
Without Study.
Friends of the " Governmenl'
clerks of Washington are mapping
out a campaign in the House to
day for a determined battle against
the Borland rider to the legislative,
executive and judicial appropria
tion bill providing an eight-hour
day for Government employes.
