Dewing Water
iM.90 I'ura
tlovcrum't Test
nmrT
-IE DEMIMG GRAPHIC
Dentins' Air
100 per el. I'ure
Brentbiii(f Test
JLOL
'A LIVK PAPER IN' A LIVE TOWN"
VOU MK XIV, NTMHER XXVI.
DKMIN'O, LI'NA COUNTY. NEW MKXICO. FRIDAY. PKIlltl'ARV '.':, 1016.
KIVK :NTS THK COI'Y
god o mm ra
oss cattlet.:hi n oiiroi here
"Honesty," Wat Keynote of Executive, Who Made A 8trong Appeal For Law
Enforcement in New Mexico; Believes Open Ranges are Doomed and That
Stock Business Will be In Hands of Many Small Ranchers; Pankey Told
Hearers that Packers Control Prices, and that Organization is Necessary;
Next Convention to Albuquerque; W. R. Morley of Magdalena Unan
imously Elected President Abundant Entertainment Furnished Visitors
Thf second iininiiil foiiviMilioii of j
I hr New Mexico faille mill Horns'
(IroWfiV Association adjourned Wcd-iif-ilny
nflfrnrhiii.
Thf second day's session of 1 lit
New Mexico Cni t le mill Horse Grower-'
Association fonvfiifil ill 10 a. m.
Wednesday innriiiiij.'. (H'llccrs for
thf fii-iiinir year wire elected ns fol
low s :
lir.SOI.VKI: Thf F.xeculive Com
have MiHcr lo flffl secretary nun
treasurer, mill lix his iiiiim nsa
t ion. Also In extend I lit Hrsun
iifl of llifir own fonuiiillff.
V. R. Mori'ly of Mnirdelemi. Pre
iilf nl ; Victor Culberson, of Kicrro,
Vice-President ; 4 'Iihh. Parks, W. S.
Hopewell, ( ole Hirl-lmt, John r. .Mf -
CiiIh. Sfiinlor It. F. Pankey, mill h.
II. Hoynl, cxeculi. iniinillfo
Col. HiihwcII invitfil thf cnuicn
t:oii for .llniipicriic, U. Hurl rn
ilorlT, president of Ihf Kl I'll -.o fliiiin
lar of Commerce seconded il, us did
i'nrl lliiiliin, sccrcliiry of tin' Silver
Illy Chamber of Commerce, iiml Sen
iti. Pniikcy. Alliiuiiif riiif was ihfii
IIIIMlilllllMlxl'.' llOHfll.
I In i vfiiliini iiiimnnioHHiy niioi-1
It'll lln n'Holillioiix infil liv Iht '
A-iiifiifiiu Livf-iofk AHHiifiitlion nl ,
W I'iihii in Jiiniimy. Th v''"-1
lllM. Vlllfll til llnofhn iui'iniiir til lilt
ral of ' ' - a IumhI a ytnr for nil
hvoMtifk nwiifil liv nifiniifiv. , ,
lln il-Mtif lilt Mill iiirl in a Iiiimiii'i.-
r r,t Hi Ui" tiV lout '4jiJ,v hi
l In nttniH of tin Ailflphi I 'lull on
(lohl aiilim. Tin- I'oiiW' iition wan
fallfil l urilff liy John T. MfCnhi of
K! 1111, wli" i" vifr-piVMilf ul of Ihf
n.HOfiiitiou. Iriilfiil Calvin filim.
of riiio. Alio wan not prvHfiil. 'I'h,
oruiiinxnliim li-liinl to ami approv-
il tin i-fpnrl- of tin ii'lvi-ory win
inillee for forolry reserve, lln rx
ci i.liif loiiiinitti'i', nnd file -ci'i'i'tniy
and lifii-iii'f r' if purl. Il was hown
I hill lln ii iii'iiil inn lunl paid nut of
its own fund- r.."i im h fr tin xlN
of llll wolvi'- ami i intaiii lioim.
Tin irin-iiriT infill i d in hi" if purl
lluil Ihf loi'iil Imi'y Iiiih hi-fli nfllliiitfd
wilh Ihf Auif rifiin Livi'-lofk A-nofi-iitimi
and hii- paid -" into thf
t n n-iirv of tin Imiu'i'I' n oi'inlioii.
In II firm t o'rlofk,
tin aofialioii wii- adilri'HM'd ly
lloVfinor W: C. Mrllonnlil. "Hon
fniy," whh tin kfyimlf of liin sM'ffh.
Thf NVw Mi'vifo fXfi'iilivf look finv
in thf lif.'iniiiii'-' to I'Vphiin thai hi
did nol nifiiii lo imply thai rnttlfiiif n
frf inori in mfd of llii- adnioiiiliou
limn niiv olhi'i' i lii-.-i-. in Ihf -lull,
il fail hi paid Ihf in a hiuh rompli
iiiinl for i hf iininiiil' in vhifh thf ,
had i'oiiii forward In I mil in tlu-ir
fiitlh for laxaliiHi. and for their Iif
havior and fiidfiivor lo rrrale lifllfr
idition- throiinh loi'iil and national
iiiHOfiiilion iifiviliiH. In pari 1
-aid :
"I do mil inlfinl In xay that i nl
tlfinfii an pi rff i-l - mini of n- an,
anil I hflifVf that v-n'nt cooil fiin In
iloiif llironch lofnl onranizalimw
Ihf niiliiri' of that whifli I inn ml
drfs-iiiu. Soiiii lia iiiofd iih
liriii'.' npMi-fd lo urifiiiii.iil'im, mi--I
ii kini: Homi limit- I -aid al Ihf Hr-t
nifftim: of I liii a oi iiilion at Silvi-r
City. I Iwltt-vt in lln Vowinan.' anil
I is fvidfiil that you liuvi and will,
ni'i'oiupli-h iiiiii'Ii th much nffil'iitioa
with tin' Aaifrifiin nsaiwiation.
"MohI diftifiillii-; ari-t throiifli
minnidf r.-lanilinus. I do nol rriti-fi-t
tin Aiiifrienn l.ivi'-liifk AH-ofiu-lion,
nlthomrh I di 1 withdraw from it
for a reason I have never iiiven. Wry
iiiiifh is aeeompli-lied hy .HiiiL' to
.elliir: hv talking lhins over, ami
lieinff aequiiiiiled. Peniinc i" the
l.inre-l Mhippimr lit f"" enllle in
lln -lale, and I am lilad to nee it in -I,
rested in 'H ehief indiiHlry.
"I do mil erilifiHO the railroads,
llinnuti a a eiillleiann I have li.nl
unpleasant rxperienees with I hem.
We ean, however, proilueo more kimmI
Ihroif-'h irointt l railronil oflleiaU
and talkin.' tliiuif over with then..
' Seni'-e, in th'n eonneetion, ii the not
iinportnnt matter. We should la wil
ling to pay more, and insist that we
lift service. I'riff is secondary.
"We think I In markets lire
Hip'
I'hiff factor in In
business. (If iiitiiIIv.
i low, we lilnnif I In packer. If il il
hicli, wf (rive tin- pni-kfr no cri'ilil.'
Thf m ImlfKiilf irii'f of Ih'i I' i- lowfr'
now I linn il h uh it Vfiir nun. I iiiii
frmik to -ii v thnl I run ollVr no mi
Inlioii In I his ii iihlc ni.
"It Iiiih ht't'ii ii'oioifil in fslnhlisli
ii I'Mfkintr Iioiim' liy Ihf ii-nofiiitiiui,
in foiiiiftilion with tin priviiti ilnnl.
Thii miuhl hftp, Inil Ihf iroio-iil to
rni-f iC'.ViO.IMKI for Ihin f nliiiriHf
-lion- tluil Mum Imvf mi ininlfiiiiif
f-liiiiiilion of I lit niiiirnifiils in nif
ffshfullv fiiiniM'if. At i Ik iiri'Kfiit
1 tinif thf irniliiff r arc
decline in ll urkcl
lliMIIU' Ufll.
inn v nol In
tint lo iiimiiiiiliilioii mi tin m1 of!
thf uifkfr. I Tin (iif iii Couiifil of ihf lniirovit
''Thf i i if hiw of -iil'i'lv mill . Oi'ilf r of Kfil Mni mi l Hi III uVnlfk
ilftniuiil nilf lh', ii- ufll no oIIht j Tiif-iliiy iiioi'iiini wild n full rfirt'-ilu!u-l
rii'H. S K't-i it I irivih'i;f I'liuiml ' -fiilnlion, nil Ihf nifiuliir- of Ihf
Inm: Mi-liiin mi iiulii-t r.v. Tlif L'i'V- jn in I'oiiiifil iM'inu pn'xpiil, pxfopl
fun it Iiiih lion,, iu lift ulifii ii j IJ. M. I. )iuii-fv of MiiKullnii, who
t'ivf-ii 'niroi liinii v lo nil. I'oor i Ihf ivnl juniiii- miiuiu . Thw
i i i...;.... i ..I... it i. .. i ... ,.
I ..MM.i.i .... ..in fiiuif "i-il'-l
iliiioiis in (hi-nuitlfi' ol rmiuf ml-1
uiiiii-l nil ion. j
..Vl. ,.,. r,,,.;, (1 ,.,mi..itf ,
lion in iiit nroihu li f rmiBi' ftitili
n N'fw Meifo. Thfiv i
still
nH.ii !
rmiL-f in Ihe slalf-po ililv von hiivei
, ,(, , v
oilier -fflion. '
ii... .1... .:,,. iA :11!f ,.i tt;i i.
rVi rt"Mifl' intti im-itiiriiuf. Thi
jsi
not a had lliiii'.'. It will uif stahil
ily In lln iiilii-li. mnl f will Iif nhlr
in Ihf I nl iilf n lliiuii a ihtinilf
ii 1 1 i 1 1 of pi'nfii and avoid hi-sfs dm
lo drv years, wa-l.iue, and oilier
ill- thai now afflift dm to roiiiiuoii
iii-lui'iii'H. Al I Iif pi'f-fin I i i it
.nun' i'i lifh -hirlintt with little; hut
tin I. aid of this the hotter.
Ih.ui 'lit- will i nine ii'.iiiin
"llin' liiu proldf a is to ft foiilrol
of our own ran.'!'-. Sonic n-k the
I I'lli'iii I covf nitiif ut In Ifii-f th,. laud :
nl Iht ilint it In iivi'ii In thi -tali fur
-iilf or li'ii-f, and n uiiiuhfr fiiMr lu
elilari;fd holiifstfiiil of It-Ill urri'-.
Ffdfrnl fonliol of thf iiinuf in th
national fori-l
Hiifff-Hful and
n-crve has proved
heacllcial, allhouuh
nimiy eattlfiiifii swoiv thf.v would
never pay the fee- fur lit ml they
lunl Im fii ii-ni'j frff. Il liftliT lo
riTiuiiili' oiir-flve- lo niiinv -mull
rmiyes , ml Iht lli.iu -uppnrl a few
lar.'! inlfii 1-. Laud thai hii- said
o he worth only livi- fi-nl- an afif
i- now -flliii:.' for fll mid an m n.
Can enllle urower-
pay
the
price;
In my opinion il is a uood iuve-lineal
al any-price, if the money for il is
paid dow'i. Iluyinu enllle and rmiue
mi horrowed capital i- snciilalivc nnd
liiihh In lln ills thai come thrniiuh
-Hcilal imi.
"I helieve Ihal it is heller for Ihe
si ale lo own the hind, len-inu or xel
liiiK il. As lo Ihe ailvi.-ahilil.v of -ei-liiu
or leasiiiK dilVi'ienl opinions pre
vail. If Ihe land does mil enhance
ureatly iu value, the In I im-miic is
olilained llimiiuh -ale. I hnld Ihal
owners will In-I iiuproM tin- land
and that imlineti , the -taui will
Im' lieiiffilcd iIii-oiil'Ii a uain iu la.nhle
iroNrty and sijll riijoy income from
the funds ohtnined Ihrotiuh the -a'e.
1'or -imiliar reasons, I approve of Ihe
enhirued home-ten I niennn now he
fore eonvress. Federal lfa-e means
Hint ihe ineiHiie roes lo the federal
.mi eminent. '
"The slate entile -unitary Imard
iii serves your coupe ration. It is the
most efficient protection fur ihe in
dustry mid ihe eipuil of any simi-
lar hoard in auv oilier stale. !
"Our losses throui'li wn-laue i
ciiorn.o.is and painful. Some
ay1
Ihal every enltleinnn is a thief. I do
nol Ix'licve il, thoii:h the omii raiit;e
e.mililion- allow of dishonesty and
opera I es iiuainsl honesly. Al pres
ent, it may he said, a eow lielonus tn
the man ncnresl il. Some men enn'l
It'll a three-monlhs-old en If from n
aiaverick. ll has also heen nniarkiil
(Continued on page j)
! Mayor Corfectt III In tan Antonit j
i Mr. Jnliii Corbel t ft) ml led tnj
Shii Antonio, Texas, last Tuesday'
1 niiilil In mm of (In- serious illness j
of her husband. Albert Field dp-1
oiniiinl Imr. Tli latest nMr
n-viirilinu Mr. Corbel I 's condition is
limri' cucnuraiiir.
Un.v (Irny-son iif Lake Valley at-
li'l ili'il till' sessions t the cattle
wait's convention, lie Iihh regained
lii health after sufferiin from had
ease of In urippe.
Bulk fli Intes ilm best made at
RoNHcrs'.
i .nr. A. r.. iioruiin nl Aiimi in ii. 1. 1
fin iif raiHi.m,,, ,,,,, vjKi , jmi1)f ,mV
if lln iniii KPi
Ii'i i-f I It-mil ml Mis. V. S. NVI
nn ol Kifrrti i-.ili'il in thr ml ,
ihiiini; thf
ii 1 1 It'iiuvn ' foiiVflion.
iw ouer e h;fn m
am GREAT 01 Kd
Interestinq Ceremonies of the Exem
plification of Scalping an Enemy,
Burning at the Stake, and Snake
Dance on Wednesday Eevonlng.
KMIil t'Oillli'll llllllllll IWtHVt lllW
1 hif I'h, nuikinc mi i 1 1 finiin- iif
toil -l'if .
lln m fouiii of il.,. iriiuif ilfitlli of
sl'''il'f Slftil lln urinl foiim U
iiii'i. mnl ii Hit niioiutiim, Ihf rnri-
ii" I'ouinnlleeH mid nllf niliutr In
himI
-oine ni'ei'Hsary hn-iiies, ndiimrneil
(,, mifiiil thf ti.ni'nil. Tht'V
refiw-
vi'iifil ntfiiin nl .'i u'cloi k in the aftar-
nooii In inn ki jin-iinu'f nifiit- for the
piiniih ami snake dmifi.
Al lln Tiif-day fVfiiintr sfssion Ihf
follouini; officers were v Iff Ifil : ,les--f
I.. I.iii'iif of Simla Kiln, ureal sh
fhfin: I', M. Dfinpsey of Movolloi,,
uri'iii i ninr sMumiiurf : II. II. Iluuhf
of lii'iuiii:, 'ri'iil junior Haauuiore;
iiioiaii- h. liimivuli ut Hurley, ureatii'ht, at Poliimhus. Pr..f. R. S.
. h cf ol records: W. (I. Wocmer of i Truinhull, farm delnon-lralor for the
Kaon It-, ureal keeper of wampum: Southwestern railroad, will join the
W. II. Miillmie of Carlshad, irrem m.s OJI ,,. v. Thursday c
prophet ; Leon I., (lodf hamc of Hem-; ,iolls will he eonven'cd at M vniliis nan
in.- ureal represeilalive. The up- , ihray. Aflenion mid eveniiiB pro
pniiilhc chiefs are Itavid Hint of , .,,.,, , . BjVl. , M, Town
Hii-I .ii- Vemis, ureal uuiiiil of for-li,, ,. Uinihres -el I hou-.. mi 1'ri-
e-i-i A. M, I'nniliis of Deininu, ivai
L", r, " wmwnm: linn llalhaway o
' ""'-'. rii niuip.
Wednesday cvenim; at 7 :'Mi o'clock
the ureal council uiivo a pnlilic ex
fuipliliinlioii of lln hnmim; of a
p.ilelaee. and I he -ealpinu of an en
emy. A tin. parade, which was led
hvihcThir nih r. s. Cavalry hand.'
and in which HMI red men inarched
in -mule file, drcs-cd in the f-
I""""- of ll rder hiiluilimr war
Imimcts, made a very pleluresipie
sMcincle, The in was lluhled up
vilh red fire lurches. The parade
niarehcd down (lohl to Hnilrond.
Il.eiuc lo the coiner of I'ilie and
(lohl when a platform anil witrwam
had heen creeled. Ulnther Me-
f'" I'lt' -liinint' hald pale ailded
realism o Ihe s e. when the false
si-alp was removed hy the apparent-
ly keen eilycd knit'.-. Then I lu bum-
ii -. of the enemy was port raved, the
hnivi- linnuinu in fnun the crowd a
very iiiiwillmu vietiui, who slrnirulcd
much Inn wii- finally Imund and
limneil. ,o less than J.iuin htoiis 1(.s
wiliifssed the sMflaele. .
Iliiaehnca trilie is one of the live-' . A. Ma honey made a business trip
wire fraternal orders of the eily , El Pano early in the week,
and proim-es Iteming further enter- -t"im
I- ' .1. P. tVeems of Separ, was iu the
The i-ilinu lied Men departed for ,.,y t attend the ealtlemnn's i-
llieir homes Wednesday niiihl and vent inn.
Thursday nioriiinu, hoping that the
next urc; council would be held in
I'einiii','.
Escaped Prisoner Buried
JiH' Criui-on, Ihe Imv vaerant
kil-
1...1 i... ..it:.... i.. ,i... r:..i.,
liiuenii Kuiiday, wan buried at '-
clock Wed ia.vnfterimonlnlhelii-
al cemetery. W. C. Knw.on had the
char.'! of Ihe nrrHiitfPmcnlH. The
In I her and brother of the dead boy
were located in Health, Wnsh., and
the burial was made bv their order.
I R. S. Steele of Ficrro was a
it or in tbe city Thursday.
v'. j
W. C. Simpson, Sheriff Ad Interm
W. ('. Simpson has been appointed
ithcriff til' l.itnn county In fill the
vacancy cau-ed by lilt' Iruuic death of
II. II. Stephens. Tln iiiMiinl infill
ran nuitli" by tin county commission-
j era. Al Ihe present lime Mr. Simpson
'Is a deputy mill,. insiicetor for the
state i-iiI lie Minilnrv liiuiril.
W. K. ItiirnfM of Tiisfon, iri'iicni I
frfiuhl mill ui-.fif.'fr hl'iiii for Ihf
Sotnhri'ii I'liiiltc (ninimiy with Iiik
litaiUiirtir nl Tu-fon, Ari., in
ihf iily "iri'inliifi Ihf kiiIvi."
A. T. Coll in of lloniliilf iilifiulfil
ihf fiillliimni'-. foiivt'iilioii.
r'oit-lff A. '. ICnulmiil of Allm
iUirriii wax in lln fitv Wfiliif ihi v.
J. K. I ml w fll ami Mrs. I In it Wf II
of Nilvtr t'itv innilf n vi-il to I t.-uiiiiu
yitnlnv.
tons a course to be-
IN LO COUNTY DAY
County Superintendent Grace G oc
tal Has Completed Arrangements
For Holding Sessions In Various
Rural Communities in the County
Word has lu-fa rfffivi'd from
I'roi". A. C. Cnolfv of tin State Col-
lftc that the Hr-oiiiif lo - Iitt-t tin
ulen-ion -Imrl foiir-f for l.uuu
founty will nrrivi in llfmiuu .Momlay.
The fir-1 prourmu will In- nivi'ii at
(led Moiiiilain. A prourmn of var
M'd iiiliTf-l ha- lieeii arrmiKfd.
The fnriiiiT- of I In Capitol llome
sacfinii will ennvfiif early Tiii-day
afternoon. The pro.rmu will liiin
at 1 o'eloek. II. M. Ihiiuer, fiirni
detnotislrfllnr for Ihf Sunlit Ki rail
road, will diseus- "live-iof k." Ilur
in I lit afternoon and eeiiin; Mi--sri
Juhn lliind, A. C. Coolfy, II. I..
Ijirtii, W. M. Kllis S. .1. Smith and
l hers will civ in-lriirlivi disfour-
-I-, ami the sfhool i-liililifii will en
liTlnin. I.iiiifhfini will In -rru'il In--
ifi'ii im allf riiooii ami evfiiiuif
prourmn. I
Wednesday alteruoou the eolleuci
l.ilf will hold a session al the Wal-
rloo school linn-,' mid Wi -Ine-ilii v
day.
Salurday, the la-l day of the
oui'-e, will he -pcnl In the Mountain
View locality, heu'iuiiiiiu nl 10 o'clock
sharp, and eonlinuiuK thrmiuh the
allfriloon. I tinner i- to he served
I roui l'J o'clock iii 1:1" ii'flnck in
the afternoon.
The Heart of the West
Hitili John," Sheriff Stephen's
lnitutit'iil Muck -lillion. was raffled
ff wn, dnrinu' the session, of the
x w Mexico I'm lie and lor-e (irow-
Assofiatin Mention. Iirinuine
sj.000. The hor-e i a w Icrful
m imal and Is worth every ccnl of III.
, rjee. The money will lie paid over
, ,lp f,mv 'f th,. sheriff that
.is his life Sunday in a pitched hat-
,,. wi,, ,di,. Thi mellee in
f,IIP)re f ,u. Tl,((,, c.in-i-ted of
. . William-. John Hyatt. Chris
;,.j,e. f. (I. Bnh. nnd J..-eph 0.
. llo-elMiroiiL'h.
The raffle look place la-l eveniue
nil fifty-seven proved to lie ihe lucky
nuniher. It was hfld hv Frank Sam-
nerds and concluded that i- was
Mrs. Mona Mnrunn of F.I Paso, who dead. The bandit eould renr his
i- ihe slate deputy for the l.nd;es ol body under eover nnd this they did,
Ihe Maccabees order, arrived in the sccurint his rifl:. Ho remetcti-r-the
last of last week. Monday after- tbc banditu standins over him a-'il
i at .1 o'clock l here will he a uet-'. r. inarkiau' : "We have Mile I Ihe hiir
,...., k. .. . i... i il it
Mrs. Ijiura B. Hart of San Antonio.
TexaM, who in the unat eomniander
of the Ladie of the Maeeatiees. will
be present
II .H. Gilchrist of Silver City vis
ited Deminjr Sunday.
Penslar Cold Tablets sure cure
t Roeaera'.
SlffiF 0. B. STEPHENS KILLED BY JAIL-
CMS NEAR Ul SUNDAY AFIEOOi'l
Five Desperate Men Give Battle to Posse in Arroyo Mile Northeast of
Junction Point, in Which Intrepid Luna County Officer Loses Life; Dep
uty "Buck" Sevier Painfully Wounded in Head: One Outlaw Killed, Two
Captured of Whom One is Woum!:d: Posses from Dening and Las Cruces
Follow Fugitives Two Days and Two Nights, Losing Trail Near Grama,
The Next Station on Other Side of Rincon: Masonic Funeral for Sheriff
l. II. Slephens sheriff of l.nna
lounly, and Joe Crim-oii, who was
sfiviii)- a sentence for vauraiif.v in
tint local priHon, were killed; mid
dcpnly sheriff Buck" Sevier was
painfully thoiiuh not seriously wound-
eii in the head, ami J. . Starr and
C. Sfhiuiill, liolh liurt'liir-, an in jail
al I .as Cruces, as the result of a mil.
ha I lie fouulu in .in arroyo a mile
i.orthea-t of Riticou, Sunday alter-
noon. Slarr is wounded. The hat-
tie followed
tin riiiir jail dflivery
earner m me nay. v. uasiney, lor.
cr. ami Kranci-cn Acosta, murilcrcr,
.in still nl larve.
The true facts of the irun haltle in
which Sheriff Dwiirht It. Slephens was
killed hecaim known onlv late Mon.
day iiftiTiiiinii when those who had
Incn eye-witnesses o the lluhl heirmi
to rciurii In I c iiiimr. The stories
circulated at Rmicoii were hailly
'.crhlcd, even when cnntrihtilcil Ii,
those who, under less stress, were in
a position to famish the fuel-.
Then' were two men actually en
urccd ia the ha 1 1 If whose pre-euce
ttn- iinkuown to others, who wen ca
ilfavnriui' o fapture the hmidit-.
I licse Iwo men were nyne Kstes mid
Jack Arnold, who came upon the
-line jiisl as deputy sheriff Join,
Kelly oiiened the Hu'ht from the Ion
of thf hill.
There a- no road where the Hl'IiI
took place. The far n-ed hy the
liiinliis dad tieen run up a utiiaii
arrovo at I he hn-c of a small h;l.
which lluures larsicly in lln trat-cilv,
ahoiil one mile mntheasi of Uineon
iiu lln lontiiiiis. lie jail lireaker-
were ciitiny lunch iu the arroyo when
lln v uiti
startled inlo action hv til
th,, car- of the purstitnu
-,,nnil of
I'fllecr-. They sprain; to the edue ni
the arroyo nnd were thereby pro
leeled to a (.Teat extent nil ditriii!.'
the halllc Ihal followed. John Kcl
I Icy was the llrst uutn to discover the
; fuuilivcs after arrivinu on lop of I lie
i I. ill. He .iim iic.I lire. Jack Aruohl
'ml Waviie Kstes joined hiiii mid so
did J. C. Tahor shortly afterwanl-.
The four kept up a steady tire and
one of this party -hot J. . Starr in
ihe lea. ll was one "f this parly
nl-o thai -hoi the boy, Joe Cnn-on,
i'.' about four hundred yards as he
n- ii 1 1 I'm i t i ii vr to c-enpe from the
arroyo.
The four men on the hill nre of
I he opinion that the sheriff nev
er saw any of Ihe bandits, twine nl-iiio-I
instantly killed as he wn skirt -iuu
the base of the hill, not more
than ten feet from the fuvitives mid
in Ihe same arroyo
The desparate men were simply
vi.iliiiir for some of the oflleers to
! i come nroimil Ihe hill. They shut
"Itiifk" Sevier in much the same way,
allhouuh he was on much hiuher
around croaml and -aw and yelled at
tile escaped pn-oneis hefore he wn
-ii tick. The bandits were above both
Sevier and Stephens. This accounts
for the fact that the filial ball pn
id thronuh Ihe sheriff s riuht arm al
I lie shoulder, ranuinif down to the
Irart. It is lluiiiuht that the emply
-In II in his irun was due to a d
el:ar.'e caused by his fall.
Iimidils wttre filing up the hill
The
and
lii wn Ihe arroyo, almost at rieht
ai'iile-. The sheriff lay in plain sicht
of ihe party on the hill.
From Ihe hill top they -aw Sevier
lull, but could not see his body after-
mnl ihe lit i lo fel!,.M "
ntler the shelter if th ei.iiank-
'". ', bandits fo.iud it easy to
xatler without eomn;. intu vnw . fi
the men on Ihe hit'. It was an
j,,
: o;erelion on the lurl if the liov .bv
, Cianson that caused him to become
, a mark for their suiir-. About "J."
j shots were exchanged.
Believinir the hi-uli'i still uti.Ur
' the embankment. Jack Arnold and
-loha Kellv dfi idfd to lie quielly and
1 1 cp walfh w hile Talen nnd K-lcs
w int to Kiiichn fur n i-iiini-c When
the first nifssacc eain from 'hem
i.either knew thai after leaMiia the
hill. Sevier had fully rcirained coii-
l a u-nc and had Klumhleii li'dliu.'
I" the place where I he iii'li.ii nlijles
lad liccn halted. An hour aft' I he
lii'.hl Sevier. thi a handkerchief
lied al id hi- In-ad and fnrl luil hy
a drink of water, cnnm -no., I. ....
thf hill i'iiII'iii: for nssistniife. Jack
Arnold went at nine to linn. A liinn
a hor-ehack, who ehniiccd tc. pas,.,
miis hailed, mnl lln- journey I tlin
coh was Im'uiiii, Sevier's conipanions
hohliiiu him on the horse. Tlw
were overtaken hy an ailloinidioc and
" '"'hfil Itiiieon in a short time, when
Hie wound was dressed. Sevu r Iiiih
only a hazy idea of w hat lian, ened
I'ller he was struck hy the hullct.
The hmidit who had liccn lnt in
the lii surrciidcn'd and was taken
to La- Cmces hv John Kelley, 'oyne .
K-le- ami Morris Nordhnns, lie hit
ler ari'iiiii: shortly after tin llcht.
This parly returniil in Dcminu.
Sheriff 1'eliiM' I.iicito. of Dona
Ana county, arrived in Kit n at 11
"Vl'irk Sunday niu'ht .mil curly
.Monday morniiiu held a council with
II. Ii. Ilu-h ami Civile Karl Klv
MierilT l.ueero dcciiled he would take
nly the iiii'm hf foiild mount, lie
eleehsl Adolpho Sninz, of l.ns Cru
o W. I . tsiiii; bou J. C. Tahor, anil
Hull for his own misc. He sent
I'' 'other, dcjuity sherd Jrse l.u-
cero, ol .a- Cruee-, with Manuel
I Vim toward f.n- Cruces, hf ItHiev
in. Kranei Vensia to have taken
I In. I route. He ih. uo know of the
inkinu of Si'lnuiili. the only man that
li.i.l lid iii that ilirfftion. He lend
hi- men toward the Rincon mountains
Iti'tiliu had ilclinilf knowledue tin.;
Iwo of thf Inuitiw's were headed in
that way. ll was afterwards learn
ed t hit t Aco-ta nil 1 Dn-hliv, the hit
ler Iiiimiiu I n tin hraiiis of the
l riy, hud taken this route,
'piiekley picked up their trail.
They
It will I'i'iiieiiiliiTcil that I). B.
Sliphens an, I ii p i-se enuilL'ed ill 11
'.'ill. tiuht with ihe (iatcs l'iiiiu nenr
Ihe liila farms iu Socorro counrv
lour years nun, nhcti the uamr wns
delivered Irun the Dcminc jail by
their friend-. Al thnl time three
Odu'iu; cilizen- were killed.
Sheriff Slephens was resiec!ed nnd
hcled hv w toiiu-doer- all alonir the
border. Hi- coiiraue was nniues
limed, nnd when he started after
outlaw- ii was alwi.ys put down ns a
cerininiy thai I her, would he a Hunt
10 a lini-h. He has ninde I.tinn
county one of the places lo he avoid
ed hy tho-e imi wi-hinir to come with-
11 the reahh of th law.
He i- survived by his widow and
four small children. His father and
mother made their home with him.
His death has ca-i a ulooin over Ihe
community. Cil;7.ens have eonureua
tfd for thf pa-t IVw lay-, express
mi: llifir tn 11 1 mi I sadness at the lima
o the eoiiinuiiiity.
The hoilies of Sheriff Hw it'll t B.
s,,'l1'"'"'' Crimson were
''r,,"-r''' ' I'ininn Monday ntoniintf
over Hit Mima re iroui Kineon. A
post mortem revealed that the bullet
from a .'10-40 rifle had penetrated
the sheriff R heart.
The funeral of Dwifht B. Stephen,
sheriff of I.tinn county, who wan kil
led in a battle with eseaied priionera
Sunday afternoon nenr Rineon, wan
held at 3 p. ra. Tuesday from hia late
residenee.
The funeral v. as conducted bv
iminir imib., .mi. i., a. I. A. M.
"'ndei the direi tion of Orand Master
" "i me niaie. Atnoa w.
oiinrn, ann mw. t'cniunutiin. ehnn-
lain.
It wan one of the lanrest funerala
ever held in Deming, and waa attend
ed by practically the entire eommiui-
Continued on Fmg 3
