IniellteTc
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY, 23, 1916
NUMRER S
fedttatoit
MASONS HAVE GOOD TIME
The Twenty-third Missouri Dis
trict Masonic Association
Met Here Thursday
Hon. N. M.
Houx's Announce
ment.
We are authorized to announce
the Hon. N. M. Houx as a can
didate for judge of the criminal
The Twenty-third Missouri j court of the Fifteenth judicial
District Masonic Association met 'circuit of the state of Missouri.
LEXINGTON DAIRY CO.
MAKES STATEMENT
Piano-Forte Recital
A large audience greeted Ma
rion Logan Kean Sellers in Mur-
I Death of William Moore
' William Moore, a well known
citizen of this city, died suddenly
W. M. A. EVENS SCORES
WITH KEMPER CADETS
Plans and Purposes Set Forth rell Auditorium as she appeared in the German Hospital in Kan- Played Kemper off Their Feet
For IJetter Milk , in formal piano recital Monday sas City about noon Saturday. in the Last Half and Won
Owing to the many inquiries evening. The event was heralded Mr. Moore went to Kansas City j With Score of 2.1 to 16
concerning our new city dairy 'with much enthusiasm by local , Tuesday to enter the German j In their second meeting of the
in Lexington Thursday as guests ! composed of Lafayette and Sal-J plant, we wish to inform the pub- musicians, who delighted in the hospital to undergo an operation season Friday night at the Acad
of Lexington Lodge No. 149. The ' ine counties, subject to the action lit that about the middle of opportunity of hearing the young J for cancer of the throat. He died emy Gymnasium, Wentworth ev
association convened promptly; of the voters of the democratic i March, we will be ready for bus- artist in a comprehensive pro- during the operation. ened things with Kemper Mili-
at 2 o'clock for the business ses- primary next August. iness in the new building to be 'gram. That no one has been Mr. Moore was born in Lex- tary school of Boonville by giv-
sion, and thirty minutes later the I Mr. Houx has served three con-; known as the Lexington Dairy 'added to the musical life of our ington, Kentucky, December 16 ing them the short end of a 23 to
entered apprentice degree was secutive terms in the legislature Co. The building will be con- city with more approval was
conferred by the Aullville Lodge and while there he strongly op- crete and brick, well ventilated, 'manifested by the large number
and still later in the afternoon posed the single tax amendment j lighted and equipped with all present and the evident satis
the fellow craft degree by the 'and fought the proposition in the jmodern machinery for handling faction in the concert-givers fin
Waverly Lodge. At six o'clock ! county campaign. mik in a safe and sanitary man-;ished efforts. Mrs. Sellers' pro-
everyone was invited over to the
Turner's Hall where supper was
Stevens' new history of Mis- ner- We are for better milk and j gram included such a variety and
souri has the following to say of by consolidating, we eliminate requirements that both students
1849. When still a young man
he came to Missouri and located
in this city. In 1869 he was mar
ried to Miss Lena Bauerle, a
daughter of the late Louis
Bauerle. Besides his widow he is
survived by four children, as fol-
served by the ladies of the Eas- his work in the legislature al- 'much work and give to our custo- and music lovers had equal share .lows: Mrs. William Palmer, Sr.,
tern Star. Here a program of .though his work in the legisla- mers a better product. We will in- in the pleasure of the evening. ; and Archie Moore ot this city,
music and speaking was given, ture had not ended at the time
The speaker was Dr. Charles A. the history was written
Weed, Grand Chaplin Royal Arch "He was the father of
Masons of Missouri. The asso- roads bill and through his
cition convened again at 8 o'clock j ence it was passed. Previous to
stall a clarifier and pastuerizer. .With Mrs. Sellers it is evident
The clarifier is a machine for re-'that music is a vital factor of
the good j moving the dirt and impurities .life, and her playing exhibits a I Kansas City. He is also s
lis influ- from the milk- 'quality and spirituality endowed 'by two brothers, Frank I
The pastuerizer is then used for
and not acquired.
The difficult, and often abused, i of Snyder, Texas
Sonata was played with fluent
when the Master's degree was the passage of the law speci?' ! heating the milk to 140 degrees,
conferred by the Higginsville districts were permitted to issue jThis process kills the bacteria
Lodge. bonds, but because of a flaw ir ,erm and renders the milk ab technic, dramatic .fire and inter-
Those registered from out of .the-law these bonds found no (soluteIy pure and safe withou- 'pretative insight,
town were as follows: : buyers. The bill put through by j effecting the flavor or cream j The Schumann selections were
C. L. Frost, Odessa; T. J. row- j Mr. Houx remedied this and ailline- When water is impure, the ( admirably done and revealed
ell, Odessa ; M.S. Powell, Odessa; lovers of the good road move-' Public demands that it be filtered , imagination and appreciation of
J. P. DeMoss, Odessa; Earl Mc-,ment felt the greatest rejoicing and for tne sake of our families the lyrical, combined with emo
Neel, Odessa ; II. G. Jones, Odes- in what was done. He is also the ' we should use filtered milk tional and poetic quality,
sa; Jos. Kuehls, Odessa; Ernest author of the blue sky law, and .which is clarified and pastuerized The Revolutionary Etude of
Powell, Odessa. !he introduced and put througV 'milk- Al1 bottles will be placed Chopin, making exceptional de-
W. L.Pelot, Higginsville ;W.S. ' the bill putting the prosecuting in a container and thoroughly mand for the left hand, was play-
16 score. These two schools are
old rivals in ntVilntiV nnrta rf
, - ' " "I" iijvvr. ir 4.
' " 1 . . .
every Kina ana when they meet
they have the genuine pep that
it takes to make the game inter
esting. The first basket ball
game between the two, played at
Boonville a few weeks ago, re
sulted in favor of Kemper C8 to
William Moore, Jr., of Oklahoma ! 17.
City, Okla., and Frank Moore oft The first half of last night's
survived : exhibition was very close and
Moore of .hard fought. Wentworth scored
Nevada, Missouri and Tom Moore first but was soon tied and pas-
Teacock , Higginsville: Frank attorneys of the stnfp nn n
Knipmeyer, Higginsville; Paul jand the bill giving school board
Heidbrink, Higginsville ; J. E. , the right to own and control play
Sheets, Higginsville ; A. H. Hoe- grounds for children."
fer, Higginsville ; A. II. Rab- j As a recognition of the ser
sahl, Higginsville ; H. Bruns, ; vices of Mr. Houx in the last lee
Higginsville ; L. J. Smith, Hig- islature, in helping to defeat th
ginsville ; Frank G. Schmidt, three cent passenger fare bill V
sterilized before being filled with ed with great freedom and brill
milk, iancy.
We have studied sanitation and j Of the last group probably the
want better milk conditions. V e Etude of Arensky with its trans
have given you the cleanest mil: parent scale passages, and De
we could produce with home fa- bussy's "Moonlight," with shim
cilities and by building this mod-;mering effects of light and shade
ern sanitary milk plant, we car. were the favorite numbers.
i sed by the visitors, but the locals
lhe body was brought to Lex- ( knotted the count and just as
ington Sunday morning. The j the referee's whistle blew for
funeral was held Monday after-1 the first half, Kemper made a
noon at 2:30 o'clock at the Epis- free throw, ending the half with
copal church.
Daughters of American Revolu
tion Entertain
TVip lnr'S'l rVinnf-pr nf tViP DaiH'h-
ters of the American Revolution i Played the visitors "fY their foet
.uti vaWn.rtm'. Mrrfc every detail of the game. The
W. M. A. one point in the rear,,
the count being 7 to G.
The second period of the con
test was where the red and white
day Tuesday night with a recep
tion at the home of Judge and
Mrs. R. Field. A most pleasing
program consisting of an addre
by Mrs. Robert Wilson on tl
purposes of the organization, r
short talk by Mr. B. M. Little o;
the traits and character of the
of the Expression Department o'
Higginsville. 'Producers, Shippers and Custom- insure yu cleaner and purer H N.,t only generous applause but! V:irlre,l T5 ' Knll nir.trr
11. i. iiiiups, rtuuviue; iiarry .ers rroiective League placed h "'"" 11CC cimuumnauon oeauumi nowers attested tne es-
Altheide, Aullville; William A. name on the Honorary Roll o ,which isi an important factor in teem for the concert-giver, and
Cook, Aullville; Hugo Sodemann, the Kansas City Council No. inducing diseases. We realize the recital was in every wav a
Aullville; William II. P. Walken- of this league. that the growth of our business, pronounced success,
horst, Aullville; Roy Philips, Judge Rich of Saline County depends on the manner in which The entire program follows:
Aullville. ! has held this office for eighteen we meel tne demand3 ox the pub-
W. A. Fletcher, WaverlyjFred years and for his services har ic e asli yur co-operation;
Bray, Waverly; T. E. Guenther, drawn over forty thousand dol- we want Vu to belp us feel that
Waverly ; Harry Bray, W'averly. lars. A great many neocle our earnest efforts are justified,
think this position should now!for the Preparedness of better
be given to Lafayette County. ,milk-
j Our manager comes with the
Mrs. C. H. Harrison returned best of references, he has had
in Warrensburtr thorough training in the dairy
G. A. Klinkenberg, Concordia ;
R. J. Walkenhorst, Concordia;
J. E. Lohoefner, Concordia; E.
A. Duensing, Concordia .
R. L. Yalkley, Corder; J. L. ,to her home
Sonata, Op. 27, No. 2
(Moonlight) - Beethoven
Presto agitato
Allegretto
Adagio sostenuto
feature of the second half ami of
the entire contest was the spec
tacular goal shooting of Went
worth's center, James Dick. Dick
is the coolest, cleanest man on
the local five and swept the
crowd off their feet as he made
several sensational field goals
from the center of the court.
. The largest crowd of spectators
saw the contest Friday night
Central College. Vocal numbers 01 any previous game this season,
by Mrs. James R. Moorehead, Jr. and were iven a run for their
and Mrs. Worth Bates, instru- money. Capt. Sellers of Went
mental numbers by Mrs. Sand- worth officiated at the contest
ford Sellers. Jr.. and Miss Emorv and none of his decisions were
Todhunter, were given.
The United States fiag v
prominent in the decorations.
disputed by the visiting team.
(Variations Serieuses
Bray, Corder ; George F. Zeysing, (Thursday after a visit here with department of an Agricultural
Corder.
J. K. Goodwin, Marshall.
L. H. Campbell, Garvin, Okla.
II. F. Brill, Lincoln, Mo.
B. F. Wyatt, St. Louis.
Luther Shafer, Buckner.
;her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
liam Talmer, Sr.
Wil-
Des Abends
Aufschwung
Warum
Grillen
Mrs. Luther Marshall went to
Delicious refreshments were ser- Kansas City Wednesday for a
ved, after which the guests d' few day's visit.
Menrieksoh n parted feeling that the evening! Hugh Rogers went to Welling.
Schumann'1 been one esPecia delig! ton Wednesday morning to spend
and profitableness. the day on business.
Schumann
Schumann I
Schumann j
Chopin
Chopin
C. E. Johns, Jefferson City.
H. H. Vogts, Kansas City.
E. A. Amborn, Sedalia.
it
L
College, and has had wide experi
ence in the pastuerization of i Etude. C minor
!milk, butter making and is a i Ballade, F ma jo
thorough milk plant operator. Prt.iude G min01 Rachmaninoff
LEXINGTON DIARY CO. Etude, F sharp major Airn.skij
j Clair de Lune Dcbioouj
I " Arabesque, No. 2 D;busn)j
Johns-Bardet Rhapsodie, G minor Hnihms
I Mr. Arthur Johns of this city j ,
jand Miss Blanche Bardet of Wei-1 Shorter-Ross
ilington were married Monday! Mr. M. II. Shorter of Sedalia
morning at 10 o'clock at the jand Miss Mary Ross of this city s
;home of M. R. McClelland, 823 j were married Saturday after-1
Iranklm Avenue. Justice of the inoon at the Christian parsonage
Peace Clyde Wright performe;' ' by the Rev. Richard W. Wallace,
the ceremony. They left on the Saturday even-!
Mr. Johns is the son of Mr. and ing train for Sedalia where they
;Mrs. David Johns of Pleasan ton, will make their home.
Spring Fashions
ARE CLEVERLY PORTRAYED IN THE NEW WOOI.TEX
SUITS AND COATS
They are now on display in our Ready-to-Wear Department
and until you see them, you cannot realize how distinoti c !y
new and charming thev really are.
WOOLTEX GARMENTS, embody Skillful variation of the
season's principle style features.
Then, too, their designers have added just the i'i;.;l.t ornamentation,
Embroidered silk or 1
lars, touches of braid
tiimndr.gs. all so iv-i;:in;.o:iiu.
! ,rn (( -1-,n.J
silk
i,' and
ALWAYS IMVSTIGATE flliST
Th.ii''s n wide runfre of tlilTei eoi-e in lumber, my boy,
r!tv.?cn the l.est aiul the worst.
Ami like the man jroinc to bed in the city hotel
It pays to investigate first.
In the IhhI mny tilings alive and unseen
Things almost witliout number.
Thnt later will cause him trouble untold,
As will inferior, low-uriob', lumber.
Avoid the lmssihilily of KetliiK! unsatisfactory Lumber
buyiiiR your building iMuterial from uh.
Our reputation for quality is ate high and we always live
up to our reputation.
There's satisfaction in buying lumber here.
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
Kansas. lie is employed at the
McClelland and Cunnineham bar- nected with an Insuran
ber shop in this city, r.nd enjoyes rany in this city ;md i
the conlidonce ar.d esteem of a
t i 1 1 i i ti .
Mr. Shorter was formerly con-;
co Cam-:
well and :
til I.-", cnin-
wule circle ol lnem
iquaititanco.
f;;vorably
munity.
kn i'An in
HARMONY
but ONE o!'M
OF
tun-:;ts.
t!
di:sk;n
:;ny -leasing
Ms gi;r-
The lr
me
Mr.
by
t LA1MBERT LtlMHER COIMPANY
I JOHN J. PRICE, Manager. tt
n
is the daughter of
and Mrs. Hcnrv Bardet of
Wtllinglo!). and is a young lady
of 'leasing personality and re
finement. A Dark Deed
Monday afternoon about
four o'clock Corrine Doane, col
ored, stabbed Lizzie Bolton, col
ored, in the back with a butcher
knife. The former was arrested
and taken before Justice of the
Peace Clyde Wright, who fixed
her bail at $400, being unable tc
furnish bond she was put in jail
to await her preliminary, Thurs
day, February 2-lth.
Di-.th of Victor Nirn 'i
George Schawe. secretary of !
tiie Eagles Lodge, received a tel-;
c.jfrarn Friday announcing thei
death of Victor Nystrom in ai
sanitarium at Ferryville, Texas. :
Mr. Nystrom lived near the j
Summit Mine, lie went to T-ax-as
about a month ago on account
of his health. He was thirty
years of age and unmarried.
The body was brought to Lex
ington for burial.
w e iia i: a . ;..:-.:
LECTION OF Id '
.MODELS, ALL VI
CORRECTLY VOll l '
NEW MODES.
:i :oi..-
'HAULK
which
Y Till
I: i
Miss Anna Hoffman returned
to her home in Kansas City
Thursday after a visit here with
Mr. and Mrs. C. Con Barron.
i
I
1 1
"i
V
if
i:i::.;i:mi;ei:
Only pure wool and p-uv Silk
Fabrics enter into tF- nn.kii'T of
Wooltex Oarnients in sj-ite of
the scarcity of una-Diherated
fabrics.
YOU
P.e One of the First to Sco These
Garments.
liiiqfcii t (urea till I & ft
