AbtI rnltorieal Soelgtt
THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 44. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, FEBRUARY 25. 1916. $2.00 Per Year
ELECTilC ROAD
HIGHLY FAVORED
If enthusiasm will build railroads
there is no doubt of the ultimate con
struction of what is termed the Reser
vation-Missoula Traction line. At
least that must be the conclusion of
everyone who attended the mass meet
ing in Scearce hall last Saturday night.
With the short notice of the meeting,
coupled with the almost impassable
condition of the roads at that time, the
attendance was beyond all expectations.
That the farmers of this section are
deeply interested was shown beyond a
doubt by the number who, regardless
of mud, came from their homes to at
tend, there being probably an equal
number of the total attendance from
the country. Only one answered the
call from Poison and the St. Ignatius
delegation failed to arrive at all. How
ever, those towns are expected to hold
separate meetings in the near future,
after which a general meeting will be
called of all reservation people.
Of the meeting held last Saturday
night, S. R. Logan, secretary, fur
nishes the following minutes:
Mr. A. Sutherland called the meet
ing to order and requested that officers
for the meeting be elected. Mr. Suth
erland was elected chairman, and S. R.
Logan was elected secretary.
Mr. Sutherland stated that the meet
ing was called for informal conference
on the question of a railroad for this
section, and that there was no pro
gram of any sort provided.
Earl D. Covell responded to a call
from the house to discuss the situation.
Mr. Covell's discussion touched upon
three aspects of the matter: First, the
seeming indifference of the railroads to
which this territory is tributary and
the unsatisfactoay location of their
surveys, which miss the towns of PoI
son, Ronan and St. Ignatius, are far
from the timber, and do not offer the
most attractive facilities of travel to
the general public; Second, the feasi
bility from the engineering standpoint
of an electric road from PoIson, via
Ronan and St. Ignatius, to Missoula,
there being no grade to exceed two
per cent at any point; Third, the feas
ibility of such a route from the stand
point of its economic advantages,
Mr. Childs reported that leading peo
ple of Poison and Missoula were very
enthusiastic over the idea and thought
every effort should be made to mater
ialize it. He pointed out the advantage
of connecting at Missoula with two
transcontinental lines.
Stanley Scearce spoke optimistically.
He believed that this is a favorable
time for such a movement, and sug
gested that a great deal of capital
could be secured in Missoula, Butte
and Anaonnda I
Messrs. Logan, Mason, Maloney,
Bailey and McDonald spoke encourag
ingly. Mr. McDonald offered his ser
vices in the very important work of
securing right of way, and said if the
road should be built through Ravalli he
should be glad to donate forty acres.
Mr. Sutherland was called upon and
spoke in detail of the problem of financ
ing the project. He gave facts and in
stances to show that it was entirely
feasible. He stated that a series of
local meetings would be held, then, if
conditions were favorable, a grand
meeting of the people of the entire
section affected, when business organ
ization would be provided and the pro
ject put definitely under way.
Upon motion of Mr. Scearce, the fol
lowing resolution was adopted unani
mously:
Whereas, At this mass meeting of
citizens of Ronan and vicinity the
proposition for local initiative and di
rection for the building of a railroad
betweeen Poison and Missoula, via Ro
nan and St. Ignatius, has appeared to
be entirely practicable and desirable,
it is
Resolved, That this meeting heartily
endorses the movement and has con
fidence in its ultimate success; and that
the secretary shall send a copy of this
resolution' to the St. Ignatius Post, and
.he Ronan Pioneer, and the Poison
Courier for publication.
A motion prevailed that a temporary
committee of five be appointed to con
fer with the people of St. Ignatius and
Polson and vicinities, and report to a
meeting of the citizens of Ronan and
vicinity to be called at the discretion of
the chairman.
The chairman appointed the follow
ing committee: Messrs. Covell, Mason,
Scearce, Childs and Sterling.
By a motion duly seconded and car
ried this committee was further in
structed to gather all possible pertinent
information to be presented at their
conferences. A motion to adjourn
was carried.
If You Live In Montana
If you live in Montana you arise in
the morning, after the pleasure of a
good nights rest on a Montana made
mattress, start the kitchen fire with
wood from a Montana forest, fill the
furnace with coal from a Montana
mine, and sit down to breakfast read
ing a Montana paper.
At breakfast you can have biscuits
from Montana wheat, ground in a Mon
tana mill, chops from a lamb born on a
Montana ranch, eggs from a Montana
poultry farm, butter from a Montana
creamery, and the cream in your coffee
from a Montana dairy, sweetened by
sugar made in a Montana sugar fac
tory, from Montana grown beets.
You ride to your business in a street
car whose electric "juice" is generated
by Montana water power, and dis
tributed by copper from Montana
mines, or perhaps you use an auto, the
gasoline for which is made from oil
from Montana wells.
At the noon luncheon you can have
a Montana Mulligan made from Mon
tana beef, carrots, spuds, cabbage,
onions, and the Lord only knows what
other ingredients.
Or possibly you prefer a ham sand
I wich made from a Montana grown hog,
cured in a Montana packing house, with
a glass of Montana beer, brewed from
Montana grown barley.
When your days labor is finished and
you return to your home, made from
Montana lumber, Montana cement,
Montana brick or Montana sandstone:
You can dine off roast turkey, chicken,
ducks or geese, all from Montana poul
try yards.
After dinner you can enjoy a good c
Montana made cigar, while reading a A
Montana evening paper and holding
sweet converse with your wife-who I
preferably should be a Montana girl. I
Before you retire you should eat two 2
Montana grown apples, shave with I
Montana made soap, then crawl in be- 8
tween blankets made from Montana I
Wool anid thank God that you live iii
Montana. -Montana. f
LOCAL BRANCH AMERICAN
FARMERS' SOCIETYOFEQUITY
A new farmers' society has been or
ganized on the Flathead, the same be
ing the Round Butte local of the Amer
ican Farmers' Society of Equity. The
first meeting occurred at the Round
Butte consolidated school house on Sat
urday night, February 12, the organ
ization starting off with twenty-six
charter members. The following of
ficers were chosen: C. M. Dall, presi
dent; Roy Atkinson, vice president;
Henry Booth, secretary-trersurer;
Frank Doser, business manager; Geo.
R. Lavis, press agent.
R. J. Bennett of Great Falls, head
secretary of the society, will visit the
local organization at the Round Butte
school house tonight and talk to the
local members on the objects, benefits
and workings of the society. At the
same time seven applications for mem
bership will be acted upon, bringing
the membership up to 33. This, the
officers say, will be increased to at
least 55 within the next sixty days.
Through this society the farmers of
the northwest have secured many con
cessions from the railroads and other
large business interests and through
concerted action much is expected in
the future.
Popular Club Entertains
A most delightful party was given in
Scearce hall Wednesday night by the
members oche Merry-Go-Round club,
one of the most popular clubs of Ro
nan. In addition to the club member
ship many invited guests were present.
Twelve tables of progressive whist
played from 9 until 11:30, at which
time at elegant lunch previously pre
viously prepared by the ladies of the
club, was served, After luncheon the
tables were removed and dancing was
indulged in until 1:30, when the party
broke up, all repairing to their homes
feeling that they had enjoyed them
selves to the limit and the guests ac
knowledging themselves greatly in
debted to the club for an evening of
fun and pleasure.
Prizes were given in the whist game,
Mrs. J. E. Fuhrer winning the ladies'
first prize, a beautiful cut glass dish,
while E. H. Rathbone was awarded
(wrongfully) the gentleman's prize
a set of hair brushes. The consolation (
prizes were awarded to Mrs. Bert l
Flatten and J. B. Bear. I
THE AMBULANCE.
-Harding in Brooklyn Eagle.
BRITISH ATTACK
GERMAN DEPOTS
London, Feb. 22.-The British offi
cial statement on the campaign in the
L west follows:
"An attack on the enemy depots at
Don (about twelve miles southwest of
Lille) was carried out by twenty-six
aeroplanes. Extensive damage is be
lieved to have been done to stores
and railways. All machines returned
in safety.
"Enemy aircraft during the past
few nights made several attacks on
various towns in our area, but with
no military result. A few civilians,
however, were killed.'
A British official communication
concerning the operations in Mesopo
tamia says:
"The general officer commanding
the troops in Mesopotamia states that
on the 17th and 19th of Feb. bombs
were dropped by hostile aeroplanes
on our camp at Kut-El-Amard. No
damage was done. Otherwise there
is no change in the situation.
"The dispatch of reinforcements to
General Aylmer (who is going to the
relief of Kut-El-Amara), is proceeding
satisfactorily."
HIT BY INCENDIARY SHELL
Zeppelin Airship Destroyed by French
Artillery.
Paris, Feb. 22.-A Zeppelin airship
was brought down by French guns in
the vicinity of Brabant-le-Roi, in the
Meuse, according to an official an
nouncement.
The Zeppelin was flying from St.
Menehould toward the south and was
attacked by cannon from Revigny. Flit
by an incendiary shell the Zeppelin
fell in flames in the vicinity of Bra
bant-le-Rol.
AMERICANS WARNED
TO CANCEL PASSAGE
New York, Feb. 22.-American citi
zens who have booked passage on the
French liner Espagne, scheduled to
sail from New York for Bordeaux,
France, Thursday, Feb. 24, have re
ceived anonymous letters calling at
tention to the proposed new subma
rine policy announced by Germany
and warning them not to embark, ac
cording to information received by
officials of the British consulate here.
Mrs. F. Baker Hilton of this city,
who plans to sail on the Espagne, de
clared that she had received a warn
ing letter, typewritten in black ink on
yellow paper.
Six Turk Transports Sunk.
London, Feb. 22.-A submarine of
the entente allies passed through the
Dardanelles on Tuesday last, reached
the Bosphorus and torpedoed one tug
and six transports laden with muni
tions, according to an Athens dispatch
to Reuter's Telegram company. The
presence of the hostile submarine
caused a panic at Constantinople.
Perhaps General Yuan is working up
on a preparedness which will enable
him to boss the "open door" in China
business without foreign help.
CHAIRMAN WILL
I FRAME MEASURE
1. Washington, Feb. 22.-National pre.
pe paredness legislation took a long step
forward in Congress when the house
Lt military committee reached a prac
f tical agreement on the outline of the
x army bill it will unanimously present
e. for passage.
Chairman Hay was authorized to
d frame the measure, which is a com
promise for the continental army plan
It advocated by former Secretary Gar
n rison and President Wilson.
h Complete federalization of the na
tional guard will be substituted for
the proposed continentals and the
n White House was informed that the
)- committee was a unit in supporting
the plan, only the language and minor
details remaining to be worked out.
t The measure will grant virtually the
s entire program mapped out by Secre
s tary Garrison for the regular army
and go even farther than he "ecom
mended in providing for reserve mill
tary supplies.
A total peace strength of 575,000 men
in the standing army and the guar'
combined will be provided for, with
reserve systems to more than double
the force in war.
The expense for the whole estab
lishment this year is roughly estimat
ed at $174,000,000, exclusive of Pana
ma canal defenses, carried in another
bill; proposals for additional military
schools in all states, carried in the
McKellar bill, favorably reported by
the committee with an appropriation
of $3,840,000 for this purpose.
Ingredients for Explosives.
The bill also provides for carrying
out a scheme to foster the fixation of
atmospheric nitrogen in the United
States, giving the country its own
supply of ingredients for explosives.
The first year of the Garrison plan
would have called for a total expendi
ture of $182,000,000.
Whether the new bill will be accept
able to President Wlison has not been
indicated, but the committee believes
its plan will override every objection
to the substitution of the national
guard for the continentals and that
congress has full legal authority for
its accomplishment.
To complete the committee's com-n
promise with President Wilson on the
continental army the bill will author
ize the increase of the regular army
to a total peace strength of 147,000 by
adding ten regiments of infantry, four
companies of coast artillery, fifteen
companies of engineers and four aero
squadrons.
Under the tentative bill the regular
army would have an organizatint
capable of being expanded to 275,000
men in war time, and a reserve pro
vision will be included, designed to
produce annually 75,000 reservists,
obligated to return to the colors under
call.
It will provide also for doubling the
cadet corps at West Point and crea
tion of thirty cadet companies to be 1
attached to regular regiments to be
trained for entry into an officers' re
serve corps. I
S
TO KILL CHILD LABOR BILLit
Object of Southern Cotton Mill Men,
Says Congressman Keating.
Washington, Feb. 22.-Charging that
Southern cotton mill interests are con-10
spiring to kill the child labor bill,
Representative Keating of Colorado,
its author, issued a warning to the
public and an appeal to "write your
congressman."
"The plan of the selfish interests is
to stave off action on the bill in the
senate until it will be sidetracked by
the preparedness program and put
over at least until next term," said
Representative Keating. "The peo
ple should know just what this con
spiracy is. They should write their
congressmen and senators. Senator
Robinson of Arkansas, who is in
charge of the bill in the senate, is
friendly. to the measure."
FIVE OF FAMILY IN PRISON
Serving Terms Ranging From SI8
Months to Fifteen Years.
Twin Falls, Ida., Feb. 22.-Five
members of one family, including the
father, mother, two sons and a step.
son, were taken to the penitentiary to
serve terms of from six months to
fifteen years for burglary and receiv
ing stolen goods.
Clubman Killed in Auto.
Kansas City, Feb. 22.-Erskine B.
Russell, secretary of the Russell Grain
company, a member of the board of
trade and a prominent clubman, was
killed here when the automobile he
was driving plunged over a fifty-foot
embankment in the south part of the
city.
MAY PROBE AIR SERVICE
Senate Military Committee Recom
mends Investigation.
Washington, Feb. 22.-A congres
sional investigation into the army
aviation service was recommended to
the senate by the military commit
tee, which reported favorably Senator
Robinson's joint resolution for ap
pointment of a special investigating
committee of two senators and three
representatives, with an appropria
tion of $10,000 for expenses.
The resolution was voted out d.
Committee after Senator Robinson had
added a further statement to the sen
sational charges against the service
made by him last week. All of the
data given the committee by the Ar
kansas senator was attached to.. the.
favorable report brought into the sen
ate and will be turned over to the in
vestigators if the resolution passes.
BIG BANK DEPOSIT GAIN
Increase In 1915, In National Institu
tions, $2,163,000,000.
Washington, Feb. 22.-Total re
sources of all the national banks in
the United States, which reportqd to
the comptroller of the currency Dec.
31, 1915, aggregated $13,467,887,223, c
an increase during the year of about
$2,110,000,000.
There were 7,607 banks reporting, c
as compared with 7,581 in December, r
1914. The increase over Nov. 10,
1915, amounted to $231,000,000.
Deposits at the end of last year
reached a total of $10,379,000,000, an k
increase in the year of about $2,163,
000,000.
FIRST COUSINS MAY MARRY
County Attorney James Rules on a
Knotty Problem.
By a decision of County Attorney
James at Anaconda first cousins may
marry under the Montana law. This
was learned when Clerk of the Court
M. L. McDermott, on the advice of
County Attorney James, Issued a mar
riage license to Hugh Pucinelli and
Miss Elide Pucinelli. The young man
is twenty-one years of age and was
born in Italy, the son, of Felil Puc
nelli. His sweetheart is a St. Paul
girl, the daughter of Frank Pucinelli,
who gave his consent, as the girl is
only seventeen years of age.
+ POPULATION OF NORTH. 4.
+ WEST STATES. l.1
+ - 4"
+ Washington, Feb. 16.-The +
+ federal census bureau esti- +
+ mates that the population of +
*+ Minnesota July 1 will be 2,- +
+ 279,603, an increase from 2,- +
+. 246,761 July 1, 1915. The es- +
*l timated population of North +
+ Dakota July 1 is 739,201, of +
I South Dakota 698,509 and of +
+ Montana 459,494. +
THREE FROZEN TO DEATH
Trio of Men Succumb to Cold While
Wandering on Prairie.
Nick Benedict and his son, farmers ]
living near Opheim, were found frozen
south of their home. The two were
in Glasgow and started home on foot,
the distance being nearly fifty miles.
A juryman coming into Glasgow
from the north country brought word
of the finding of the body of James
Thompson south of Glentana, on the
uratriBa.
LEE MANTLE OUT
r
FOR U3 S. SENATOR
t
Senator Lee Mantle will be a candi
date for the United States senatorship
r at the coming primaries on the repub
r lican ticket, providing an absolute veto
i is not put on his present plans by his,
physician, says the Anaconda Standard.
All of the plans to launch his boom
have been made by his admirers and in
answer to their reqnests for him to
enter the race he has told them that he
will enter the lists unless the condition
of his health prevents.
In urging his entry his advisors give
the following reasons:
Butte is the metropolis of Montana
and as such is entitled to one of the
leading offices. At present the United
States senators, the two congressmen
and the governor are all from other
points. Mantle on account of his wide
acquaintance in Butte and throughout
the state would make an exceptionally
strong republican ,candidate. Mantle
has kept out of the warfare between
the progressives and the standpat ele
ment. He would have a strong sup
port from both.
They urge that Senator Edwards can
not defeat Joe Dixon for the nomi
nation in a straight two-sided fight,
and that the only way to defeat Dixon
is to bring out some man like Mantle,
who can make a stronger race than
either Dixon or Edwards.
The friends of Edwards do not take
any stock in the claim that he cannot
beat the Missoula newspaper man, and
they say that they will welcome the
entry of Mantle into the race, as he
will draw from the same sources of
strength as Dixon and will make Ed
wards' nomination a certainty.
It was eight years ago that Dixon
defeated Mantle for renomination as
the republican candidate. Atthat time
Ed Donlan was Dixon's campaign man
ager and the forces that are now most
antagonistic to Dixon were the most
active in his election.
Time brings many changes in politics
and now these same forces, it is said,
would be glad to give Senator Mantle's
candidacy a hearty backing.
With Edwards, Mantle and Dixon in
the race for the republican nomination
for United States senator and with Sen
ator Henry L. Myers and Joseph Kirsch
wing as the avowed candidates for the
democratic nomination, a lively contest
is promised in both the republican and
democratic primaries.
The contest of the democratic nomi
inees for lieutenant governor is devel
oping also. The avowed candidates
now in the field are Lieutenant Gov
ernor McDowell, Senator P. M. Abbott
of Gallatin county and Judge Ayers
whose aspirations have been announced
by the Great Falls Tribune.
Washington Party
Mrs. J. T. Warner entertained a
number of lady friends last Tuesday
afternoon at a Washington party. The
house was beautifully decorated with
American flags and hatclhets, emblem
atic of our first president. Games and
music provided entertainment. In a
progressive whist game Mrs. L. M.
Farnham and Mrs. C. F. Rathbone
tied for first honors, the former win
ning by cutting the high card. A game
termed progressive peanuts was greatly
enjoyed, Mrs. R. A. Jensen winning
first prize. The letters of the honored
name of "Washington" were used in a
word contest, Mrs, G. E. Broughton
being declared the winner. Following
the games and music, Mrs. Warner
served a delicious two course lunch,
closing a most delightful afternoon.
The guests were Mesdames Scearce,
Riddle, Broughton, Carper, Glathart,
Swee, Cutts, Cole, Covalt, Klotsche,
Maloney, Augusta Hardman, Gillett,
Jeffries, Driscoll, Mason, Lemire,
Sheen, Larson, Brandjord, Potvin, E.
H. Rathbone, Fuhrer, Putney, Farn
ham, Wilson, Covell, McConnell, Stans
bury, Hollingsworth, C. F. Rathbone,
White, and Misses Kane, Savage,
Duplessis, Teagarden, Rafferty and
Marsh.
On Green Pasture
Messrs. Bratton and Deardorff of the
Reservation Farmers' Grain company,
operating elevators at Ravalli and Dix
on, are in town. These gentlemen are
contemplating the erection of a co-op
erative grain elevator at Perma. It is
understood they have already sold quite
an amount of stock to farmers on
Camas Prairie. -Plains correspondent
Df the Missoulian.
