Why Commit Business Suicide?
YOU may take the letters out of the alphabet-the mirth out of laughter-the oxygen out of the air-headaches out
of booze-sleepiness out of snooze-the luster out of the sun—the sentiment out of love-the hole out of the doughnut
but you cannot take out ADVERTISING from your business without becoming a "has been*' or a "never was." To insure
success advertise in THE ABERDEEN HERALD.
THIRTIETH YEAR
PLANS FOR
POSTOFFICE
RECEIVED
Many Federal Offices
Will be Housed in
Big Structure
BATH FOR CARRIERS
Showers and Rest Room
Are Provided for
Employes
The new postoffice will front on
•G street. The main building will
be 76 feet by 78 feet, of which the
front portion 76 by 42 feet will be
two stories. These and other interest
ing details of Aberdeen's new Federal
structure are to be gleaned from the
plans and specifications for the build
ing, received here this week.
In addition to the office of the
Postmaster which is on the ground
floor, there has been provided a
Civil Service Examination room lo
oted in the basement, and three
uites of offices on the second floor,
of two rooms each.
There is to be a basement under
the entire building providing every
convenience. The furnaces will be
equipped to use gas as fuel, if neces
sity arises. Hot and cold water in
all parts of the building and shower
baths for the carriers. A swing room
36 by 15 feet is for the use of carriers
when they wish to remain at the
office between trips. This is located
in the second floor but is separated
' -om the Federal offices.
* The lobby of the postoffice is in the
form of an inverted letter T. As one
enters the Money Order and Registry
room is at the extreme right, to the
left and toward the center are win
dows for stamps, enquiry, general de-
THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF GERMS.
ihe Wife: "What are you pianc 1.1 iuuhD hkc i..at ior, Abnerf"
Ab: "Gosh, can't ye see I'm a-dodgin' grip .germs?"
—Rehse in New York World.
Be sure and read our Big Offers on page 3 for New Subscriptions or
renewals. Nothing so good was ever offered to you before. Think
of Five Different Kinds of Good Newspapers, suitable for everybody
in the home, for the price of one.
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
TALKS INITIATIVE
j E. P. Marsh, president of the State
! Federation of Labor, last Friday even
-1 ing discussed in interesting fashion
! the initiative measures favored by
I
organized labor at the fall elections.
Marsh spoke before a large gathering
at the Aberdeen Trades Council meet
ing in the Exchange building.
I
| livery and drops for letters and par
cels.
| To the left of the entrance is first
jan open stair way to the Federal offi-
I ces above, and then the Postmaster's
office, the remainder of the space to
the center of the lobby being taken
up with lock box sections. The floor
of the lobby will be of Terrazzo and
where cak is used in the finishing
i. e. in the lobby and Postmaster's
room it is to be selected quarter
sawed white oak. The oak is to be
fumed to the exact shade specified
i and afterward given a waxed finish.
' The workroom is sufficiently large
lat least for present needs being 36x
I 60 feet, or the whole of the one story
i portion of the building and further in
creased by space to work the win
dows and boxes and the money order
and register room. The floor of work
room is to be of fir. Two large vaults
on the first floor will provide safety
for Uncle Sam's valuables.
j The new building will not lack that
essential to all modern equipped post-j
offices, a "look out." This is a pass
age way which so winds about the
building that an inspector can watch
any employee at work from almost
any angle. This part of the building
is so inconspicous that it would not
be noticed by the average sight-seer.
The flagstaff, nearly sixty feet high,
will make it possible to float Old
Glory 100 feet in the air.
This new structure will add consid
erable to Aberdeen's collection of
public buildings. Its red brick ex
terior will be trimmed with granite
and sand stone and together with its
parkings on either side, and paved
alley and approaches, which will be
neatly kept, can be pointed out with
pride as Aberdeen's share in the na
tional government.
ABERDEEN TO DECIDE
MONDAY IF IT NEEDS
COMMISSION FORM NOW
Registration of 3479, Only 20 Less Than
Last Year, Indicates the Interest Taken By
Voters in Question to be Submitted at Polls
Aberdeen will decide, Monday, February 28, whether it wants
Commission form of city government or not. That voters are taking
an interest in the question is indicated by the registration. When
the books at the city hall closed, last Friday night, 3479 hid regis
ered, of whom 2156 were men and 1323 .women, only 20 less than
the registration last year, when a hot mayoralty election was on. By
wards, registration was:
First Ward: 269 men, 160 women; total, 429. Second: 281 men,
141 women; total, 422. Third: 400 men, 248 women; total, 648.
Fourth: 336 men, 214 women, total, 550. Fifth: 450 men, 300
women; total, 750. Sixth: 422 men, 258 women; total, 680.
Registration by precincts, men's being given first and women's
second, in each instance, was:
First Ward: First precinct, 133-79; total 212. Second precinct,
136 81; total 217.
Second Ward: First precinct, 138-52; total 190. Second pre
cinct, 143-89; total, 232.
Third Ward: First precinct, 111-38; total 149. Second precinct,
122-94; total 216. Third precinct, 167-116; total 283.
Fourth Ward: First precinct, 102-33; total 135. Second precinct, >
cinct, 100-72; total 172. Third precinct, 134-109; total 243.
Fifth Ward: First precinct, 162-74; total 236. Second precinct,
137-105; total 242. Third precinct, 151-121; total 272.
Sixth Ward: First precinct, 109-58; total 167. Second precinct,
146-91; total, 237. Third precinct, 167-109; total 276.
N. B.—Some people are fearful that in some
way, through a Commission form of government,
we may develop into a wide-open town. This will
never occur as long as the present owner is in con
trol of the Aberdeen Herald; this is final and irre
vocable. There are not three men on earth who
can, for any length of time hold public office in
this town and violate the wishes of the people and
turn traitor to the best interests of this city.
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916.
THE MEXICAN HABIT.
—Hubbard in Baltimore American.
Council Listens
to Protest Against
Local Billboards
Billboards came in for brief but
spirited discussion, at Wednesday
night's city council session. Protest,
signed by John Johnson and 48 other
residents near Wishkah and Wash
ington streeto intersection, was made
against a board erected at that cor
ner by the Doyle Advertising agency.
Unsightliness was alleged as good
reason for objection against the board
and Councilman Milette supported the
objection, urging that the council, if
it could find no other way out, should
by ordinance remove all billboard 1 ;
from the city.
The council session lasted but a half
hour and nothing but routine business
was considered. The projected im
provement of West Boulevard in South
Aberdeen was temporarily dropped,
owing to excessive cost compared with
value of property affected. Joe Gra
ham protesting at the improvement
of Simpson avenue from Division to
the city limits for the same reason,
that work was dropped permanently.
Payment of two old warrants, for
$40 and $141, on the Terrace Heights
improvement district was requested
by E. H. Jackson, former merchant
here, who said he cashed the. war
rants in 1891. The rolls of the district,
it appears, have been lost. Matter
was referred to the city attorney.
The Grays Harbor Post was award
ed the city printing.
Payment was ordered made the con
tractor on the South Aberdeen drain
age district, $75 being withheld until
final completion of the work.
TO REVIVE CLUB
The Grays Harbor County Gun
club, temporarily organized at a
meeting Tuesday in Cosmopolis, will
effect permanent organization this
evening at a meeting at the store
of H. L. Cook & Co. The first shoot
in many months, also held Tuesday
in Cosmopolis, was a successful one,
E. A. Bradner, D. W. Fleet and Jay
Weatherwax making good scores.
BOTH SIDES SURE OF
VICTORY AT ELECTION
TO BE HELD MONDAY
Clergymen and Club Women Oppose Change,
While Carney Ridicules Report Commission
Will Make Aberdeen Wide-Open Town Again
With the election on Commission form of city government but three
days off, both supporters and opponents of the change are claiming
victory at the polls Monday. The past few days, it is reported, have
seen the lining up of local clergymen and of many prominent members
of women's organizations against the commission form.
"I can only speak for myself," said Rev. T. H. Simpson of the
First Presbyterian church yesterday, "but from the reports brought
to me that supporters of the commission form are out with promises
that, if commission form carries Monday, Aberdeen shall be con
ducted on as wide open a plan as possible under the 'dry' law, I
am opposed to the change and shall so advise others. I personally
know of many advocates of the commission form who have always
been against any improvement in civic conditions here, and their
present activity is suspicious. The fact that the backers of the pro
posed change will not name their candidates is a significant sign. If
their names were given now it would expose the scheme."
"The idea that the change to commission form would bring about
a return to wide open conditions is too preposterous for argument,
almost," said Col. John J. Carney. "How, I ask, could any man
make such a promise when it is understood how the commissioners
would be elected? The signing of 100 names to a petition places
a candidate in the field, for the primaries. The six with the highest
number of votes go on the ballot at the city election. How, I repeat,
could any man promise, before the election, that the three commis
sioners who will finally be elected, will Inaugurate a wide open
policy? How can anyone reasonably promise anything under such
conditions? In my opinion, this report is started for specious reasons,
by the opponents of commission form, for its effect upon unthinking
voters."
WIDEN THEIR BUBINEBS
Jones & Jones have bought the rent
ing business of A. Spahr, who will de
part next month for Klickitat county
on business. Mr. Spahr is not moving
from Grays Harbor county, mowever.
The Tango Teacher: "Weli, if there isn't that skating instructor dining at
that swell hotel that I used to patronize."
VOLUME 30
FINED FOR DRINKING.
Charged with buying alcohol at a
local store for mechanical purposes,
then drinking it, a logger was fined
$15, Wednesday in the police court
here.
THEN AND NOW.
—Rehse in New York World.
NUMBER 21
