T- iv-jpt
tw-jji
I
OFFICIAL PAPER OF CITY AND COUNTY
.. ^r -*'j.i
Seed Corn That is Good
#^UTSIDE
of Home Grown Corn our seed is the only seed offered
for sale in this vicinity that can furnish absolute proof as to
where it was grown. That fact is just as important for you to
know as to know about its growing qualities.
For reference write to Charles Erickson, president of the First
National Bank, of Inwood, Lyon Co., Iowa. He will tell you that I \yas
there several weeks selecting and shipping corn grown north of Inwood.
Also Mr. E. S. Fyler, a graduate of Ames, can and will gladly verify
this fact, as he was with me and assisted in selecting and testing.
To set aside any doubt as to this corn maturing in Howard County,
on January 8, 1916, I wrote to Ames, asking them regarding this point.
Copy of my letter to Ames follows:
if you.care to ask for them.
Price for this seed' is $5.00 per bushel. Variety, medium yellow dent.
All seed on ear. Your note at 6 per cent, will answer, if you wish.
You'have the privilege of testing for 30 days. Do not wait till you
need seed and then buy anything, not knowing where or who raised it.
Have some Flint for early feeding at $3.50 per bushel. Every farm
er should plant at least one bushel.
Phone, Write, or Call on
M. M. GRAF, Cresco, Iowa.
De Y«a Wait to Sell Yo«r Farn?
I will buy direct from the owner in
Mitchell or Howard County, a farm of
SO, 120, 160 or 240 acres, improved
farm prefered. Write me stating your
lowest price per acre, terms of sale,
and describe the farm fully, giving
all the details. Aderess
T. B. ERWIN,
27t2 Britt, Iowa.
Horses Wanted.
Two cars of horses wanted for the
New York market, weighing.from 1100
lbs. up and from '4 years old, up. Will
be in Cresco on Saturday, Feb. 26.
ANDERSON BROS.
1.'<p></p>Cresco
Cresco, Iowa, January 8, 1916.
Mr. Clyde McKee, Asst. Prof, of Farm Crops,
Ames, Iowa.
My Dear Sir:—In Lyon County, Iowa, I selected a car of 1914 corn
and am now selling same here for seed. Tests made of this corn here
by different farmers show a very strong germination, namely 93 to 100
per cent. What is your opinion with reference to Lyon county corn ma
turing in this locality? The variety we have is a medium yellow dent
averaging about 120 ears to the bushel. For this information I will be
greatly obliged. I also thank you for your letter of Dec. 26, 1915.
Very truly, M. M. GRAF.
(Exact copy of reply from Ames follows:)
Ames, Iowa, February 2, 1916.
Mr. M. M. Graf, Cresco, Iowa.
Dear Sir:
Your letter of January 8th was received in due time but owing to
the rush of work at the close of our semester, reply has been delayed
until this time.
I note what you have to say regarding the 1914 seed corn in Lyon
County. Since Lyon County is in the same tier of counties as your own
it would seem to me it would make very little difference in the time of
maturing. I take it that there is practically no difference in the lati
tude between the two counties, and since they are both on about the
same line, we would expect little, if any, difference in the length of
time required to mature.
1 am glad to note the interest that you are taking in the way of
securing good seed for your farmers, and hope that you will be entirely
successful in supplying the amount of seed that will be needed. I think
you are particularly fortunate in securing seed which gives as strong
germination as that which you report.
If at any time we car, lie of service to you I will be glad to hear from
you. Very truly yours,
CLYDE MCKEE,
•ft'
W
Asst. Prof, of Farm Cijops.
ttiisTsled'and wecim furolshtfieir names
Soatk Side Contused.
I beg to say I offer no apology for
what I have written, but simply ask
the people to investigate the South Side,
note its nearness to the business center
and please bear in mind fruits, flowers,
ornamental trees and shrubbery grow
to perfection on the warm, sunny soil.
WE HAVE SOME
LYON COUNTY
SEED CORN
And expect some more which
we will sell at, per bushel
& 4 0 0
The test is good. It is Early White and
Earlv Yellow Dent. Well selected corn.
We also have some more of that
ROCK COUNTY, MINNESOTA, CORN
1914 Seed. Test Good
and the Price Right
CALL IN AND I WILL SHOW YOU
THE CORN AND THE TEST
I W
W O E S E I N
'"rf •",
Yours Truly, DAD.
P. S. Any inquiries for a home or
business enterprise will be promptly
and cheerfully answered. Address S.
Pecoy, Cresco la.
For Sale or Rent.
My house one block east of Court
House. Enquire at Huntting Elevator
of A. D. Herold. 27-tf
VOL. LVIJ. NO. 27 CRESCO, HOWARD COUNTY, IOWA, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916
1
n?
1 I
:k
Fanners Institute a Success.
The farmers' institute held on the
16th, 17th and 18th of Feb. was well
attended and the program was all car
ried out, except one or two numbers, in
a creditable manner. The young peo
ple, especially the young men on the
farm, do not seem to take as much in
terest in the institute as could be wish
ed.
We had in all, four lecturers from
away, Mr. E. S. Estel, State Dairy
Expert Prof. R. K, Bliss, Director of
the Agricultural Extension Department
Mr. S. J. Dodds of the State Highway
Commission, and Prof. H. H. Gibson of
the Department of Agricultural Educa
tion of the Iowa State college at Ames.
They all seemed to be live young men
that were interested in bringing to us
something instructive in their particu
lar departments.
Mr. Estel in his afternoon talk dwelt
on the value of saving all the feeding
value of the corn crop by putting it in
a silo so as to utilize the full value of
the corn stalks. He also told us that
the protein in the feed was what made
the milk white. In his evening lec
ture his main theme seemed to be
"Not more cows, but better cows,"
Prof. Gibson coqtifienced bis talk with
contrasting the importance of the boys
and girls of the country with that of
the crops and other farm interests, stat
ing that it was necessary to educate the
boy so he would be better able to sup
port himself and be a better citizen.
He also talked on Consolidation of
Schools which brought on some argu
ment against consolidation.
Mr. S. A. Converse spoke on "The
Banker and the Farmer" and admitted
that the farmer was competent to man
age his business without special advice
from the banker. He also said that in
parts of the country where farming in
terests were the most prosperous the
rate of interest on loans was the low
est.
Dr. P. G. Button read a paper on
Mamitis, also led a discussion on Joint
Diseases in colts in which J. E. Doo
little and C. V. Johnson joined.
Mayor A. E. Barker made a short
speech of welcome and gave the insti
tute the "freedom of the city." Mr.
Murtha, the president, replied briefly
to the mayor's speech.
Rev. H. M. Normann, pastor of the
Norwegian Lutheran Church, gave a
talk on various farm subjects that was
greatly enjoyed by the institute. Mr.
Normann dwelt especially on the ad
vantages of the country life. There
was such a crowd to hear Rev. Nor
mann that the reporter was busy seat
ing the audience and did not get many
notes on his address.
J. E. Doolittle read an article on
Dairying from Wallace's Farmer and
also exhibited some samples of siiage
and compared the different kinds.
The talk on Horticulture was lead by
Mr. Murtha and in his talk he advised
the farmer to plant trees for wind
breaks and shade as well as for fruit,
and mentioned how much trees con
tributed to the enjoyment of life on the
farm. A general discussion followed
participated in by A. E. Bents, Henry
Bents, M. M. Forry. Perry Wanless.
Will Bents a
ad S. A. Converse. They
talked of different kinds of walnuts and
whether catalpas would grow to any
size in this latitude.
Dr. W. C. Hess read a paper on
health and in it he advocated the plan
of having plenty of fresh air in the
house and especially in the sleeping
rooms, and also advised the people to
let in all the sunshine they could get in
to their homes. He -believes parents
should make home pleasant and invit
ing so the children would like to stay
at home and not run the streets.
After Dr. Hess talked, Mr. Murtha
spoke on the advantage of buying land
PBS®
PLUCK, P.to IESS, PERSEVERANCE AND PATRIOTISM IN POLITICS
me poor cowsoy v^*..
the Babcock test. He also emphasized
the need of cleanliness in all dairying
operations.
Prof. Bliss lectured on "Baby Beef
for Profit" and argued that beef could
be produced more profitably from young
cattle than older ones as it takes more
feed to put a pound of beef on an older
animal than on a calf. He wanted the
farmers not to let the calf get a set
back as they must be kept in a thrifty
condition all the time.
Mr. Dodds, Educational Engineer,
gave us a talk on the care of roads and
dwelt at length on the advantage of
having the state highway commission
and competent engineers to direct and
supervise the construction of roads and
culverts. He also stated that the stand
ard grade for a road is a 6 per cent
grade and advised that where the road
is from 12 to 16 per cent grade it should,
if possible, be relocated rather than
graded. There seemed to be a decided
aentiroent qgainst^he pre
among those pr«Mirt this'
in Iowa rather than going to Montana
or some other place. Also, S. A. Con
verse, Perry Wanless and Mr. Gassett
had a discussion on the transportation
problem and contrasted our nearness to
maricet to those living in Montana.
peneral discussion in which Mr. Doo-
,,tt£
Melvold gave a reading. Both of these
were appreciated by the institute,
judging by the applause given them.
Friday afternoon Master Geo. Mead
sang a solo and Master Herbert Howe
gave a reading, "Evening at the Farm,"
that pleased the audience.
4
•&' -M
'3W*
Plain Deafer
T&e Albion Farmers' club had the af
ternoon Thursday which they filled in a
very enjoyable manner .to the rest of
the institute. Mrs. Wm. Wells, Vice
President of the Farmers' Institue, was
chairman and made a speech in opening
the session which was followed by in
strumental music by Mae and Sylvia
Ashley and Orsen Wells, an Invocation
by Rev. Guy Rutherford, and a history
of the club by Miss Ashley. Mrs. El
mer Nash read a fine paper on Charac
ter Building. The Preservation of Milk
was the subject of a paper read by Mrs.
C. V. Johnson: This paper was a very
scientific explanation of why milk
souried and spoiled. Mrs. Johnson ex
plained that part of her papers was the
work of Mrs. Wells. There were ex
cellent readings by Mrs. C. A. Wells
and Mr. Arthur Livingston, and a pa
per by Mrs. Oney Bateman in which
she dwelt on the importance of books urer.
on the farm. Mr. C. V. Johnson talk-]
ed on seed corn which opened up a
Gassett and others joined. It
seeded as if a person wanting to
'start something" had only to say
"seed com" or "good roads" and a
discussion would arise that was almost
impossible to stop. At the close of the
aftefnoon,
Mr. Gassett, for the insti-
tute moved a vote of thanks to the
Albion people for their entertainment
which was unanimously carried.
Mr. G. V. Punteney was able to be
present and make a nice little speech
that' was enthusiastically cheered.
Father Punteney admitted in his speech
that he was ninety-six years young.
As to the entertainment part of the
institute all of the numbers except one
was rendered very nicely and that one
number we understand was missed by a
mistake about the date of their ap
pearance and not omitted by neglect.
Mr. John Kakac and daughter Helen
gagre us a fine violin duet and Miss
Elltn Dell a good reading. Rev. Guy
TOad' la^^^^g J#**™ 4*.
Whffecfcmb Riley, a raaiBngtfaat eorr
joyed by all. The high school glee
club sang for us Wednesday evening
and Thursday evening Miss Charlotte
tfcjgpijVC¥
The last evening session was in charge
of the county superintendent and re
flects credit on all those connected with
it. The spelling was good, and showed
that the pupils who entered the contest
had learned their list of words almost
perfectly. The little girls, Miss Mabel
Henry who sang, Miss Mildred Frank
who gave two readings, as well as Miss
Frank's class, who favored us with two
songs, were especially fine.
The manual training and domestic
science exhibits of the country schools
of Howard county, that were made a
part of the institute, were extensive
and showed great interest on the part
of both the teachers and pupils in these
branches of study.
The institute on Thursday afternoon
held an election of officers for the year
1917, at which Mr. John F. Murthawas
elected president, Mrs. C. V. Johnson
secretary and Mr. J. N. Smith treas-
In the spelling contest Hazel Web
ster, of Vernon Springs twp. took first
honors and received a gold medal and
Frank Reckner was given a silver
medal for second place.
C. H. RICE, Sec'y.
Important Fine Stock Purchase.
C. D. Nichols and his son Charles at
tended the Great Berkshire Sale at- the
Iowana Farm at Davenport last week,
and bought three choice bred sows at
the sale. From there they went the
following day to White Hall, 111., to
W. S. Corsa's and attended the Greg
ory Farm Sale of bred sows and bought
the noted show sow, Schoolmaster's
Lady 6th, which sold at the top price
of the sale. Schoolmaster's Lady 6th,
an out standing daughter of Master
piece, and dam by Hopeful Lee 2nd,
the $1500 son of Handsome Lee. This
young sow is said to be one of the best
bred sows of America. She is well
along to farrow from the famous Sup
erbus which greatly enhances her value.
Superbus, a prized $3500 boar on the
Gregory Farm, is the sire of the
World's Grand Champion Boar, Grand
Leader 2nd. at the Panama-Pacific Ex
position, San Francisco, California in
1915. Thus the Holland Farms secure
some of the plums in the Berkshire
lin%£^- p::
Notice.
There will be a meeting held at the
Court House at 1 o'clock p. m., Satur
day, February 26th, for the purpose of
trying to organize a Farmers' Co-opo
rative Creamery to be operated in
Cresco. All interested in dairying are
invited. We hope to have W. B.
Barnes, State Dairy Commissioner to
address the meeting.
TO THE WOMEN AND YOUNG
LADIES OF CRESCO AND ITS
SURROUNDING TERRITORY!
Will you kindly accept this as a person
al invitation to attend an Early Showing
of Printzess Spring Styles in our
Garment Department?
You will want to inspect Printzess Spring
Styles, and ours is the only store in this
city where they will be shown.
We are very sure that the beauty of
style line, material and tailoring, which
adds distinction to each. Printzess Coat
and Suit, will well repay you for your*^4*
visit.
Cordiallv yours,
BY MEAD PUBLISHING COMPANY
C. D. NICHOLS & SON
1
I
r-jt.
The young couple left on the after
noon train for Los Angeles, California,
where they will reside. A host of
friends join with 119 in best wishes fcr
a prosperous, happy life^,.
CRESCO, IOWA.
»i
$1.00 PER YEAR
Great Feat by Wireless Amateuv
Monday night the amateur wireless
operators of this great country proved
their worth to the government. They
performed a feat which ha3 never been
done in the history of the land. "A,
message was sent by messenger from
the Rock Island arsenal to the wireless
station of W. H. Kirwin at Davenport.
At eleven o'clock that station sent
broadcast the message, which waft
picked up by all stations within a radi«
us of three hundred miles. Then, pre*
viously arranged stations, in ever wid
ening circles around the arsenal, tcok
up the message and relayed it until at*,
la. m. the message had been received
at every wireless station in the coun-
try. The message was as follows: '\M
"Mayor of the City: A democracy vj
requires that a people who govern and
educate themselves should be so armed
and disciplined that they can protect
themselves.
Colonel Nicholson, U. S. A." .:|j
It was received in Cresco by Will
Rathert, at his powerful wireless sta-. Jf
tion at 11:05, direct from the Rock
Island station and delivered by him the
morning following to Mayor Barked
who retains and highly prizes the first
official wireless message received in the
city.
The message was delivered to Presi
dent Wilson and members os the cabi
net that morning at 2:00 o'clock by aa
amateur in Washington, D. C. }i
This, scheme was heartily indorsed by
the government officials and will prove
invaluable in time of national peril.
The first move on the part of an invad
ing force would be the severing of all "L
wire connection in the locality. Then
would be the time for the wireless to
show its real value to the country.
The credit for the success of this
organization is given to Wm. H. Kir
wan, of.Davenport. The system is per
manent and will be transferred to the
U. S. signal corps in time of war.
Iti
Married
At twelve o'clock of yesterday, Feb
ruary the 24th, occurred the marriage
of Mr. Roy Johnson, a son of Mr.
and Mrs. George Johnson, and Misa
AnnaHelaas, the^nl?!WiIfchtiA?W Mr.
and Mrs. Gilbert' Mefcas, at the home
of the bride's grandmother, Mrs.
Emslie, Rev. Kirwin officiating.
Only the immediate relatives were
present.
rt
3
sJiti
