u
OUR
BOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELLOW.
Volume 2
Houston, Miss., Feb. 25, IOIG.
Number 40
MOTTO
-II
MMER
flARSIIAL ANDREW EASLEY SHOT
AND KILLED AT IIOULKA FEB. 19.
While attempting the arrest of two negroes, Fletcher
and Chester Williams, last Saturday night down in the mill
quarters, Marshal Easley was shot thru the heart and
stabbed twice in the back. He had the murderers by the
arms when they jerked away from him with the above re
sult. In a few minutes after theUragedy Mr John Luker
found the body of Marshal Easley and brought it to a
house for further preparation for burial. " The dogs of Joe
E Johnson of this place wre qaiokly carried there and
on trail, jthey went straight to the house of the negroes'!
father and there ha 1 difficulty in locating the tracks for it
seemed they had either taken a horse or mule or put tur-,
pontine in their shoes. Th:j whole country was aroused
and all the light artillery of Calhoun and Chickasaw made j
its appearance in the hands of determined men in autos,
on horse and muleback and on foot. It looked like an army1
had gathered near Tnehna ,iud if they had been caught ;
then, quick work .would have been the result.
Marshal Easley was popular with the people and even the j
negroes of the town 1 k d him because of his kindness to1
them. If a negro or white man was dr i lk in t )vn, many,
many times Marshal Eadey would s ay, "Now you bet-'
ter go home and sleep it off. Now I doa"t want to arrest
you and cause trouble, just go home now." By that he
aved many men from paying fines when generally a mar
shal likes to get anybody that comes along. Having ar
rested so many negros in the mill quarters he was careless
and did not have a man along with him that night. The
whole country was shocked when the trews we it over the
wires for Mr. Easley was well liked by everybody. He was
not afraid of the devil and would go into any old kind of
rough house doings. He leaves four sous and thresdaugh
ters. His body was buried in the Collum's cemetery north
of Retd Monday. He was a W. 0. W. in good standing and
also member of an old life insurance company.
Chester Williams was captured in Pontotoc county
Tuesday by Sheriff Wood and posse of that county. He
was delived to Sheriff Davis that night and carried to
Meridian for safe keeping. The other negro, Fletcher
Williams, was captured by Sheriff Wright of Calhoun
county on Tom Phillips farm, in southwest Calhoun.about
0 o'clock Wednesday evening and was carried to Colum
bus that night.
BE A HOUSTON BOOSTER
The original "Be A Booster" poem has come into our
hands from a man up north who signs himself, "One of
Them Things." The four or five first verses have gone the
rounds of the state, but we print the last four thinking
they are the best of all. The last two we have never seen
in a newspaper.
If things that don't seem to suit you,
And the world seems kinder wrong,
What's the matter with a boostin'
Just to help the thing along?
'Cause if things should stop agoin'
We'd be in a sorry plight.
You just keep that horn a blowin'
Boost 'er up with all your might.
If you know some feller's failin's
Just forget'esn 'cause you know
That same feller's got some good points,
Them's the ones you want to show.
"Cast your loaves oat on the waters,
They'll come back's" a sayin' true,
Mebbe they'll come baek "battered"
When some feller boosts for you.
Get the glad habit of BOOSTING GET ON THE JOB!
The Turner Barber Shop
North Side of Square. Solicits a Liberal Share ol
your Patronage and Best of Service at old Time
Prices. Hot and Cold Baths.
J.Jl. Turner, Proprietor
'mnn item'"
Save
M
oney:
To Our. Customers:--
Modern business requires modern methods, and this store is determin
ed to move forward with the most progressive.
We solicit a share of your patronage and promise you good goods, low
prices and courteous treatment.
We are pushing for business and We need your assistance.
YOU NEED THE GOODS; WE NEED YOUR TRADE. WHEN
WE BUY FOR CASH WE GET A DISCOUNT
- WHY MOT YOU?
For each Cash Purchase at our store a receipt will be given.
All Cash Receipts are Valuable. SAVE THEH.
They can be redeemed any time for merchandise at 5 per cent, of the amount
printed on the receipts.
These receipts are issued by a mechanical cashier of the most approved de
sign which was recently built to our express order by the National Cash Register
Company.
Banks pay you 4 per cent, interest on money you save.
We pay you 5 per cent, on money you spend.
rnifr rTT7TF nAnnm TTATTnr
illL VIML BMiKlMH I1UUDE
Houston,
Kleban & flatz, Proprietors
Ilississippi
-
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
The Houlka Camp. No. 279.
Woodmen of the World, submits
the following resolutiens of respect
and condolence as prepared by the
undersigned committee:
Whereas, It has pleased theCreat
Sovereign of the Universe to remove
our beloved brother, Andrew W.
Easley. from the daily walks of life:
and
Whereas, It is but just that a fit
ting recognition of his many virtues
be made; therefore it
Resolved By Houlka Camp, No.
279. W. 0. W. that we bow to the
will of Divine Province in humble
submission and that we tenderly
j condole with the family of our de
ceased brother in their sad hour of
trial aud afflictiou.
j Resolved, That the Camp deeply
i laments the untimely loss of a faith
ful brother and devoutly commends
to the children of the deceased to
; trust Him who looks with pitying
jeye upon the fatherless and the
motherless.
j Resolved, That our late Sovereign
i was ever ready to proffer the hand
j of aid and the voice of sympathy to
' the needy and distressed of both
I the fraternity and community; that
he was an active member of this
society, whose utmost endeavors
j wre exerted for its welfare and
' prosperity; a friend and companion
; who was dear to us all; a citizen
whose upright life was a blessing to
the country in which he lived.
Resolved, That in our natnral
sorrow for the loss of a faithful and
loyal officer of the town we find
consolation in the belief that it is
, well with him for whom we mourn.
Resolved, That these resolutions
be transmitted to the family of the
deceased, as a token of our respect
and veneration for the Christian
character of a good man gone to
rest, and also that a copy be spread
upon the minutes of the W. 0. W.
and one each sent to The Times
Post and The Hummer for publica
tion. D. S. Bishop,
Grady Cook,
Rad H. Reed
BETTER ROADS FOR CHICKASAW COUNTY
At the last meeting of the Houston Boosters Monday
night many committiees were chosen and plans made to
further the greater development of Chickasaw county.
Good roads were the chief topic of the talks and it is now
planned to extend the good road on to Btiena Vista and to
extend the others running out from Houston at the quick
est possible tinTT-. Houston business men know that good
roads help the man who lives in the country just as much
as the man who lives in town. The farmer can bring his
products in at any time and not have to worry over mud
holes, bad places that make a man cuss blazing streaks of
choice English. Houston wants to help others and will go
over nalt way to get the chance. Lvery man who was
once against good roads generally turns in and helps boost
when he rides over them just a few times. He sees the
difference, he feds the difference and his teams show the
difference. Tupelo and Lee County have ideal roads and
Tupelo is a booming town. Our county aud town can do
likewise and get on top of thi progressive ladder. It will
take mighty good "GRIT" mixed with this gravel to make
good roads hut Houston Boosters have a supply laid up for
the fight.
Good roads bring town and country cooperation
community fellowship quick service better schools
better facilities all around for everything. Why can't
Chickasaw he prominent on the "highway" of progress"?
She can and is NOW going after - the goods watch her
DELIVER ON THE SPOT.
Good roads make farming sections more valuable.
Good roads are the first questions asked about our county
by prospe ;tive horneseekers. The good road running by a
farm makes that farm look better in the eyes of buyers
and even those just off the road are increased in value be
cause the good roads are of easy access. Everybody pro
fits by good roads. No man loses for good roads make
people GET TOGETHER.
The following letter was received by Pres dent Dor
man of the Houston Progressive League to attend the
Jeff Davis Highway Convention at Grenada March 2nd:
A. J. Dorman, President Houston Business League
Dear Sir:
The members of your body are most cordially
invited to attend a convention to be held in Grenada, on
Thursday, March 2nd, 1916. The object of the meeting is
to determine and settle upon a route through Mississippi
for the great Jeff Davis Highway, and to discuss matters
in connection therewith. You can readily realize and ap
preciate the incalculable benefit which the proposed High
way will be to our State and we are confident that all
your members feel vital interest in the same.
The entire State will feel the good results of the
Convention and we need your presence to make the meet
ing a complete success, hence this invitation, Wre promise
you a royal welcome, and plenty of good roads enthusiasm
Cordially yours
GRENADA BUSINESS LEAGUE.
A. M. Carothers, W. B. Hoffa
Secretary President
To The Voters of Chickasaw County:
I take this method of thankiug the voters who voted
for me in the special election. I made the race on my
own merits and that alone. I spoke no evil of any of my
worthy opponents, and made no trades or promises other
j than to try to make Chickasaw county a good Circuit
Clerk, I sincerely thank all who voted for me, and enter
! tain only the most kindly feeling for those who saw fit to
(oppose me. Sincerely, John E. Davis.
1
tBfl.00
Daily Clarion-Ledger
During entire Session of the
Legislature.
V x I I ' !
C1 lr JJk.
C
orprmttee
