EVENTH YEAR. No. 36
BIHUSIOC MEETING
Hi COMMERCIAL CLUB PARTICI
- PATES IN A LUNCHEON.
|PP¥ EVENT OF THE SEASON
Boil I'cllonship anil a Good Time En
®’i jo)i'll It) the Many Members
and Vlslturct PreseuC.
Bill meeting, ami one most conductive
H good fellowship among tlie town
Hoidc. was on ttie occasion of the
served in Hie spacious dining
Him of I lie Hotel de Grubb, last
Hursday owning. The members of the
Hili turned uni almost entuassc, and
were a number of guests present
■in the surrounding country. This
was not in the nature of a
Hbiucss gathering, it was devoted par-
Bnlarly to sociability, but the spirit
Hfect-to-geiher was particularly mani-
Htcd. Seventy-three persons partlcl-
Hcd ill the luncheon, and it is seldom
seventy-three persons are more
Hasanlly entertained at an affair of
B kind. What added very materially
Hthc gastronomic, social and mental
was the splendid music supplied
B the Oroville orchestra during the
Hicheon. That feature could not have
Hen improved upon, and every num-
Hr was loudly applauded.
H(Vbcn dessert had disappeared Dr. D.
H Lewis, president of the club, acted
B toastmaster, and In a happy vein
Broduced the several speakers. Judge
■ll Neal, the first speaker called up-
B delivered an entertaining and hum-
Hiis address, confining himself to no
Htiiulur line. He congratulated the
upon the large turn out, the in-
manifested and the happy indi-
Bion of harmony prevailing among
Bg business men of the town, calling
Beni ion to three of the principal mer-
Kiuls touching elbows directly op-
Bsite him. He urged it as a duty upon
B citizens to co-operate in any work
Kit he had for its object the advance
ment and building up of the town.
■Thus. N, O'Neill, an agricultural en-
Kieer, who has recently located on the
■ghlands east of Oroville, held the
■ose attention of his audience by a
■ery interesting address. He prefaced
■is remarks and put everybody in a
tod humor by telling a Lincoln story,
pie, he claimed, that had never been
ibid before, and in common with about
111 of the multitude of good ones &c-
Iredlted to the martyred president it
pas worth while. Mr. O’Neill is an ac
■ve agency in the Farmer’s Union, and
■ilked at length upon the advantages
,nd benefits that grow out of commun
ty welfare organization. He promised
hat committees from that organization
if which he is a member, would work
n union and harmony with like com
uittees from the Commercial Club
dong such lines as promised the great
est good to the people as a whole. Ho
iclieved that. Hie interests of the coun
ry were identified with that of the
[own, that they are interlocking, and
whatever is accomplished for the ad
vantage of the one will be to the ad
vantage of the other.
Ernest Riste was called upon and re
sponded briefly upon the subject of a
publicity campaign.
Rev .A. W| Bond was the last speaker
of the evening, and his forceful address
[was listened to with close attention. He
drew a catchy word picture of the
charms of the valley, the prospective
future of the town, and dwelt upon the
changes for the better that may be ex
pected from intensive farming which
will follow the settling up of the land
under the Irrigation system. He ex
pressed great pleasure in being able to
meet with the club, and was glad to
see so many citizens interested in the
work of building up the community.
He urged that one of the best means
of attracting the attention of desira
ble settlers to the country, especially
among the farming classes of the east,
was to let them know that church fa
< ilities and the opportunity for the edu
cation of their children were present
here as well as “turquois skies” and a
soil that responds abundantly to the
efforts of the husbandman.
At the close of the speaking Presi
dent Lewis announced that the next
luncheon would be served at the Rad
bourne hotel, Thursday evening, March
2nd, urging all present to attend. He
also expressed the thanks of the club
to the orchestra, and announced the
following standing committees:
Membership—K. E. Efner, C. W.
Smith, L. H. Prentice.
Finance —Chas. Powell, Sr., J. F.
Samson, H. .T. Desmond.
Trade and Industries and Public Ser
vice—S. B. Starrett. J. F. Frils, C.
Schassberger.
Highways and Bridges—Geo. L. Cole,
Geo. Bartell, A. P. Murray.
Education and Statistics —J. A.
Blaekler, Frank M. Dallam, C. H. Neal.
Entertainment —Fred. Hart, Frank
Bartell, Jr., R, L. Prentice.
Publicity—Ernrest Rlste, L. L. Work
A. P. Murray. Mr. Riste representing
the irrigation district, Mr. Work the
- ofjfi Ttynr <1 <1 ■—p—ro—
JlldWmJL A^r^Jd-Pi . L [LaS
Oroville Real Estate Dealer’s associa
tion and Mr. Murray the Commercial
Club.
Irrigation and Water Power—J. F.
Samson, R. Butler, C. C. Hedger.
Agriculture and Horticulture—W. 0.
Hamisch, H. J. Desmond, J. F. Prlls.
Transportation and Legislation—L.-
L. Work, Judge C. H. Neal, J. F. Sam
son.
It may be added that the following
are the officers of the Commercial
Club for the ensuing year;
President, Dr. D. H. Lewis; vice
president L. L. Work; secretary, E. R.
Hoose; treasurer. G L. Armstrong;
trustees, W. O. Hamisch, J. F. Frits,
F. M. Dallam, A. P. Murray, executive
committee, Roy Vincent, J. A. Blackler,
Chas. Powell. L, H. Prentice. L. H.
Prentice.
You have heard of the delayed steal
in base ball, the delayed pass in foot
ball, a delayed train, not unusual this
winter, and delayed payments, which
is the most common delay known to
mankind, but this is simply a delayed
story, it is somewhat ancient history
now, but was in shape for the issue of
last week, yet through some incompre
hensible mistake the item failed to get
into type.
The St. Valentine day musiclc, given
at tiie home of Mrs. Frank M. Dallam,
Monday, for the benefit of Trinity
Guild, was pronounced by the large
number of ladles who had the good
fortune to be present as the most thor
oughly enjoyable entertainment that
has ever been given in Oroville by lo
cal talent. Every number on the pro
gram was delightfully rendered and
altogether the efforts of those who
took part were exceptionally meritor
ious. The piano solos were charming,
the vocal selections most pleasing and
the readings of an unusually high or
der of merit. The large double room
in which the affair was held was tas
tily decorated in keeping with the
day and the occasion. Light refresh
ments were served during the after
noon. Many of the ladies have express
ed the wish that the enteratlnment
could be repeated in a public hall so
that the male members of the commun
ity as well as those ladies who were
not present might have the privilege
and pleasure of hearing the perform
ers. The program as presented was as
follows:
1 Danse Ecossaiae Baker
Mrs. S. B. Starrett
1— The Mission of a Rose Cower
2 2—One Sweetly Solemn Thought....
..Ambrose
3 —An April Qlri Falrlamb
Mrs. Geo. R. Major
3 La Madonna Sweet
Mrs. D. Maske
4 Recitation Mrs. Kratzer
6 Impromptu (A flat) Shubert
Mrs. C. C. Hedge
11 I—My Ain Folk Lemon
2 Yesterday Land Stamper
Miss Edwynne Tilley
7 Sonata Pathetecpue Beethoven
Mrs. E. R. Taylor
8 Recitation Mrs. W. J. Hoskyn
u The Witches Flight Russell
Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Hedgers
I—Absent Metcalf
10 2—Thora Adams
3 She’s a Daughter of Mother
Machree Ball
Mrs. D. H. Lewis
WORKING HAND IN HAND.
The several real estate firms and indi
vidual dealers In town have formed an
organization to be known as the “Oro
ville Ileal Estate Dealer’s Association,"
and will work together harmoniously
although continuing as distinctive in
iudividual dealers. This organization
will be beneficial to both those engaged
in the business of handling real estate
and to prospective Investors. The or
ganization is not for the purpose of
inflating prices, but of working In con
junction in looking after those coming
Into the country to buy land and to
facilitate them in securing what they
may desire. Ordinarily the real estate
dealers In a place carry on a piratical
system with the good of the country
subordinate to personal advantage,
and not infrequently resort to methods
and means that are unprofessional
and detrimental to securing new set
tlers. Where there is not a mutual
understanding among dealers, when
one dealer gets in touch with a pos
sible buyer, and has nothing the buy
er wants, it has been the practice to
either decry what other dealers handle
or shunt the stranger out of town and
lose him entirely as a resident. Under
the agreement and understanding that
the local dealers have entered into if
one member of the association has not
on his list the exact kind of a propo
sition that the visitor wants he is rec
ommended to another dealer who
may have just the property the stran
ger is looking for. Nothing could be
fairer for all concerned, nor more
conductive to friendly business rela
tions. Moreover, it impresses the
stranger that he is not in the hands
of those who wish to force him to ac
cept something that he does not want,
and that the desire exists to secure
him for a permanent resident. Then
the dealers as a body formulate plans
for taking prospective investors in
hand and giving them every opportun
ity to carefully investigate the sur
rounding country and familiarize him
self with the general situation. He is
thus in a position to make such selec
tions of land ns he deems the most
favorable. The Oroville Real Estate
Dealers’ Association is founded upon
the right principle, and backed by men
of principle it can be made a forceful
and useful factor in settling up both
town and country. It looks like the
first step in a campaign that will re
sult in the infusion of much new blood
in the communities within and with
out the corporate limits during the
ensuing year.
A DELAYED ITEM.
BEAUTIFUL LAKE OSOYOOS, A CHARMING AND VALUABLE LOCAL ASSET
It may be a trifle unseasonable but it is taking time by the forelock to produce Hie above picture as a view of
Osoyoos lake, taken from Work’s Point on the west side of tfte lake where the Work cottage is located. It is one of
the most attractive and inviting spots along the shores of that charming sheet of water, with one of Hie best bath
ing beaches on the lake, where bathing beaches are many and every one of them an invitation to sweltering hu
manity in the good old summer time. There are many lakes in this part of the country, on botli sides of the inter
national line, but few if any one of them will surpass in beauty Osoyoos. The people of Oroville have neglect
ed a most valuable asset in the past in not paying more attention to playing up that great natural advantage, Oso
yoos lake. The lake is on the edge of the town to the north. There is a short stretch of the Okanogan river between
town and the lake, which is navigablefor small crafts. As a summer resort, where people can camp, boat, bathe,
or fish, there is no sheet of water in tills upper country that cun hold out greater attractions, and in Hie course
of time many residents of the surrounding country will make it a point to spend a few weeks on its shore every
summer. There are quite a number of small boats on Hie lake, but considering the pleasure to lie derived from
boating there should be a dozen wherethere is now only one. Tiie lake, taken in its entirety, is some ten miles in
length and probably a mile and a half wide in its widest part. It extends across the boundary line into British
Columbia, and is really a widening out ot the Okanogan river. The time will come when it will be a great resort
in the summer, and an attraction that the people ot Oroville will extensively feature ns one of the show places
of the town.
DIG IRRIGATION SCHEME.
R. W. Hunner, Amos Tupper and
Dr. C. R. McKinley, of Brewster, ac
companied by O, Lauragaard, consult
ing engineer, came up from that place
on the apple special Saturday evening
to meet by appointment A. J. Hill, rep
resenting the Warren Brothers Con
struction company, of Boston, and.
Henry Kaiser of the Henry Kaiser &
Co., contractors of Portland, Oregon.
Messrs. Hunner, Tupper and McKinley
were representing the property hold
ers under the great irrigation project
that Is to embrace the vast territory
known as Brewster flat, or so much of
it as has not yet been reclaimed by in
dividual initiative. They have been in
correspondence with the contracting
firms mentioned, and owing to the de
moralization of traffic on the Great
Northern the several parties had to
make arrangements to meet in Oro
ville, discuss the proposition and close
any deal that the several interests
might decide upon.
Notwithstanding the inconveniences
of this trip the Brewster contingent
was well repaid for coming up, for It
is a pleasure to announce that the vis
itors were rewarded for their trouble
by reaching an understanding reduced
to a formal contract, through which, if
no unforseen hitch occurs water will
at last be conveyed upon the land in
the southern part of the county after
many disappointments and long, long
waits, and Okanogan county people see
another great irrigation project suc
cessfully carried to a finish. As we un
derstand the contract as signed up, the
contracting firms reprsented by
Messrs. Hill and Kaiser will construct
the system upon what is known at a
“force account.” As this is explained to
us. the proposition presented and ac
cepted is for the district to pay for al!
the material and labor employed, the
same to be provided at the best market
rates, the contractors to receive as
their compensation for carrying out
the contract 15 per cent of the actual
cost, of completing the system. They
are to furnish the money with which
to meet all expenses and take bonds ns
their pay. The contractors further
agree to put up a bond to the amount
of 25 per cent of the estimated cost of
the installation of the system for a
faithful performance of their contract
and have four months in which to be
gin the contract.. No figures are given
out, but originally it was caluclatad
that the system as proposed would cost
in the neighborhood of 11,250,000 and
bonds were voted to that amount by
those holding land under the project.
The cost per acre was calculated to be
some SOO, It was owing to the large
sum involved that the district has had
so much difficulty in finding respon
sible parties who would do the work
for the bond issue.
This plan was satisfactory to the di
rectors of the district, probably be
cause of the difficulty thev have had
in placing the bonds, or finding con
tractors willing to acept the bonds in
payment for construction, yet there is
an opening in such a contract for
heavy leakage, and the system could
be made to cost a far greater sum
than the land owners ever dreamed of.
Of course the responsibility of dis
bursements for material and labor will
rest very largely upon the shoulders
of the engineer who will be employed
to look after the Interests of the dis
trict.
But a contingency of that kind is not
anticipated, and is only mentioned to
point out what could happen, and the
necessity of engaging an engineer In
whom every confidence can be placed.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON. FEBRUARY 25, 1916
The contracting firms that will do the
work are rated among the best and
most reliable in the business and if
they finally decide before the expira
tion ot the four months grace to take
hold of the proposition it is safe to say
that the work will be efficiently done,
and at as reasonable figures as possi
ble It is fortunate for Brewster and the
country adjacent ther&oTTTaFauy firm
could be found with the capital back
of it to take hold of and carry out such
an extensive and expensive irrigation
project. It will be the making of the
south end of the county. Already pri
vate enterprise has demonstrated that
the best apples can be produced on the
Brewster Flats. Not alone fruit, but
everything that grows out of doors can
be produced abundantly and of a su
perior quality. We congratulate the dis
trict upon at last attaining what the
people have been striving for for so
long a time, for although there is a
time extension before the contract is
finally entered into it is felt that from
the interest tliees contractors have
shown they will sign up within the
period fixed.
WHERE IS THE RESPONSIBILITY.
Last Thursday the remains of
Blanche Barnett, the woman who was
shipped to Oroville by British Colum
bia constituted authorities at Hedley
when she was at the point of death,
and who passed away forty-eight hours
after arriving here, was buried from
L. W, Barnes’ undertaking parlors.
That was exactly two weeks from the
date of the arrival of the woman in
Oroville. At the time of the death Die
remains were turned over to Mr.
Barnes without any one being re
sponsible for the expense of the fun
eral, without means for even obtaining
necessary clothing. The baggage of the
deceased was in the hands of the cus
toms officers and Mr. Barnes had to
apply to the superior court for author
ity to secure these effects before cloth
ing could be obtained.
In most places, "alas for the rarity
of Christian charity under the sun,”
the remains of this unfortunate woman
a social outcast, in life, and without a
single friend to do her reverence in
death, would have gone to the Potter’s
field, without attention and without
service. But Mr. Barnes is not wholly
devoid of heart, and in this instance
he did a kind and generous action. He
secured a lot in Odd Fellows cemetery
at Ills own expense,, lie cared for the
deceased as carefully as’ though the
deceased had been a person of moans
with a multitude of friends, every re
spect was shown the dead, and the
body finally laid reverently away with
Christian services. All the cost has
been met by Mr. Barnes.
The woman had some prsonal prop
erty in the way of clothing the in
trinsic value of which would not be
gin to pay the expenses of the fu
neral. There were numerous articles
it was said she had in life, but they
were missing. The natural inference
to draw from their absence is that
they were appropriated. That, how
ever, is only conjecture with strong
circumstantial evidence to give the
conjecture color.
The one feature that was especially
condemnatory is the action of whoever
was responsible for sending the woman
out of British Columbia in her critical
condition into this state. Those who
were responsible cannot plead ignor
ance. Her condition was too apparent
to be mistaken or misunderstood. In
criticism of this action it is difficult
to attach blame as it is not positivelv
known who is at fault, although it has
been charged that the responsibility
rests upon the provinical constable at
Hedley. He may be able to clear his
skirts of this suspicion. If he can lie
ought to out of regard for the service
of which he is a unit, and which has
always been respected for its effi
ciency. It would be unfair to blame the
blameless, yet there is no denying that
some one Is to blame and that person
should at least have the manhood to
voluntarily meet ' expenses result
ing from the woman being sent to
Oroville to die and be buried among
strangers.
DAILY TRAINS AGAIN.
Thursday the daily passenger ser
vice on the Oroville-Wenatchee branch
was resumed after some three weeks
of a tri-weekly service, much to the
convenience and satisfaction of the
people along the route. The change
from a daily passenger to a mixed train
service thrice a week was forced upon
the Great Northern by the prolonged
blockade between Wenatchee and the
coast. Tlie branch engines are oil con
sumers, the supply of oil comes from
the coast, and with the fuel supply cut
down and off so that the strictest
economy had to be exercised in its use,
a reduction of train service became im
perative. But when you come to think
about it the people of the valley are
becoming rather particular in their
demands for transportation service
considering what they were satisfied
with in tin' past, it was only a few
years ago when a stage drawn by cay
uses, and slow travelers at that, was
considered a great convenience. Then
tlie automobile cut down the time and
was considered a luxury. When a three
times a week train service was at last,
secured tlie period of extreme happi
ness, satisfaction and content was
reached by those who were compelled
to travel from place to place along the
valley. It was not long until three
times a week was considered 100 slow
and irksome, and a daily service was
demanded. So there you are. The hu
man family is never satisfied with a
good thing, it is always yearning for
something better. Feed them a little
modern convenience and they want
more.
-
AN IMPOIM’A\T SUGGESTION.
Under the new irrigation system be
ing constructed in the valley are some
1100 acres of Indian allotments. This
land gets the same benefits from the
introduction of water as the land own
ed by the white men, but does not pay
its fair and just portion of the cost of
construction. The watering of the val
ley will greatly enhance the value of
the land without the land paying for
any of the expense. A strong effort is
being made to induce the Indian de
partment to pay the pro rata cost for
this Indian land, and that may be ac
complished, although it will require
the unwinding of a vast amount of red
tape. One method of accomplishing the
object is by an act of ((ingress, and
Senator Poindexter has introduced a
bill in the senate and Congressman Dill
has introduced a similar bill in the
house providing for the requested re
lief But there the bills are liable to
stick if some effort is not made by the
people of the valley to hasten action.
Wednesday evening a meeting was
held in Judge Neal’s office, attended
by a number of citizens, at which D, C.
Henney explained the situation and
gave his views as to the best policy
to pursue to secure the relief desired.
He believed that the best plan was to
send some representative to Washing-
ton to confer with the congressional
delegation from this state, all of whom
strongly favor a measure for relief,
and be present when the bill is taken
up in committee, and bo prepared to
explain by facts and figures the con
ditions out here, the benefit that the
water will be to the Indian lands and
tiie justness of the Indian lands bear
ing an equal cost of construction with
other lands in the valley. It was felt
that the district could not afford to
meet the expense of sending a repre
sentative to Washington, and as the
two towns of Oroville and Tonasket
wore to benefit through the system,
and were not called upon to pay any of
the cost of construction It was no
more than fair that the business men
of the towns should provide the means
to pay the expenses of such a repre
sentative to Washington. It was the
consensus of opinion of those present
that such u proposal was no more
than fair, and that the towns should
contribute a sufficient sum to carry
out the plan suggested. The local
Commercial club will take up the
matter at once and raise the share of
funds that is required. A specific sum
was mentioned, and ns Oroville is the
l.ngei place it was felt that Oroville
should contribute in the neighbor
hood of two-thirds of the amount and
Tonasket (he balance. If through any
Influence of the people living in the
towns and valley congress can be in
duced to extend the aid desired, which
is no more than a like quantity of land
owned by the white settler Is called
upon to pay, the contribution will
matrlally relieve the balance of the
land of a heavy burden.
It is a matter wherein prompt action
is necesasry, and every business man
in Oroville should cheerfully contrib
ute to the cause, as a return In a
small measure for the benefits that
the town is bound to derive from the
construction and operation of the
system.
DIED IN THE SOUTH.
Some weeks ago Clay and Clint
Hershberger left Oroville with their
brother, Ray Hershberger, for Arizona.
The young man had been a sufferer
for a long time from tuberculosis and
had been slowly fading away. At the
time ot departure young Hershberger
was in a critical condition, and had
been treated at St. Joseph’s hospital
for some time. As his strength was
steadily failing it was hoped that a
change to a dryer and warmer climate
might work a beneficial effect, and
pioiong his life even if it did not
effect a permanent cure. But the in
sidious disease had too firm a hold,
and the unfortunate young man died
before reaching his destination. Death
occurred February 9. Clay Hershber
ger returned home Monday bringing
the sad news. He did not write as he
started north Immediately after the
death ot his brother, but was delayed
by washouts on the roads. Clint
Hershberger went to his old home in
West Virginia to make a visit before
returning to Okanogan county.
While not unexpected the death of
Ray Hershberger was sad news to bis
relatives and many friends. He was a
young man ot sterling character and
bright prospects. Up to the time he
contracted the disease that finally
proved fatal he was a strong, robust
man. He was highly respected and a
great favorite among all who knew
him. The sympathy of the community
is extended to tiie relatives who spared
no expense nor attention in their ef
fort to find relief for the stricken
young man. In the south, where he fin
ally passed away and was buried, the
doctors called to treat him in his last
hours stated that the immediate cause
of death was klndney disease.
DEATH OF .1. P. SHARP.
J. I’. Sharp, an old resident of this
part of the country, whose home for
some time has been across the line in
British Columbia, a short distance
north ot Nighthawk, died at St. Jo
seph’s hospital Saturday morning. Mr.
Sharp was a patient, at the hospital
some weeks ago, at that time suffer
ing from a serious attack ot hiccoughs
from which Dr. Efner had much diffi
culty in relieving him. Recovering
from that affliction Mr, Sharp return
ed home, but in a few days was taken
down with pneumonia. He was brought
back to the Oroville hospital Tuesday,
February 15, and every thing possible
done for his relief, but owing to his
advanced years ho was unable to rally
from the attack.
Jasper P. Sharp was born in Ohio,
March 21, 1841, and dying February
19, 1916, was aged "4 years, 11 months
and 28 days. His father was a Method
ist minister. He went to Wisconsin With
his parents when he was eight years
of age, and at the age of 18 moved to
Kansas where he resided until 1887,
when he came west and located in
Washington. The deceased was a vet
eran Odd Fellow. He served as a team
ster in the Union army during the
civil war. He was married September
21, 1861! to Miss Emily Murden, and to
the union seven children were born,
two sons and five daughters. He is
survived by his wife, two daughters,
eight grand children and two great
grand children. One of his daughters
is Mrs. Joe M. Allemandi of Night
hawk.
The funeral took place from the M.
E. Church Monday, Rev. W. W. Strlte
officiating, and Interment was in the
Odd Fellows cemetery.
Brewster had a scorching Sunday,
when considerable damage was done
to property owned by Dr. Klnley.
A RED ROT CONTEST
OROTHLF HIGH TAKES OKA
NOGAN HIGH INTO CAMP.
*
BEST BASKET BALL OF SEASON
A Large Crowd Witnesses a Tory Ex
citing Game With a Final Score
of 86 to 88,
A large and excited crowd of spec
tators filled the balcony at the high
school gym last Friday evening and
keenly watched the Oroville high
school basket ball team put it over on
Okanogan by a score of 36 to 23, and
registered their satisfaction by a noisy
demonstration. It was the hardest
fought and in many respects the best
played game on the home floor of the
season, although the locals in their
anxiety to win, missed many chances
to pad out the score. The first half end
ed with an even score, 19 all. At that
period it was anybody’s game which
added to the intensity of the interest.
Both teams entered the last half bent
on winning and strained every nerve
for that purpose. It was not until to
wards the end of the chapter that the
Oroville boys fairly got In the way of
doing things. Then they would not be
denied, galloping to the front and
holding the lead against the most
strenuous efforts of their opponents. It
was an intensely interesting game to
watch, full of thrills, and the uncer
tainty of the finale kept the excite
ment of the crowd screwed up to the
highest pitch. Every one of the home
team played as though their very life
depended upon the result McMahan
and Cole carried off the honors In the
way of scoring, a kind of habit they
have got into. Rogers, of Molson, ref
ereed the first half of the game and
Beverly Powell the first halt. So
far as could be learned, the visitors
went home satisfied that they had had
a square deal.
As Oroville had defeated Okanogan
twice out of three games It was the
general impression that the game
of last Friday evening settled the
championship of the county. This
seems an error, for why is not known.
Another game betwen the two teams is
to be played next Friday evening at
Okanogan. In the event of Okanogan
winning, which would be no surprise,
as Okanogan is a hot number and a
dangerous proposition, a fifth game
would have to be arranged on some
neutral floor, say Tonasket, Riverside
or Oraak.
As the season’s record stands the
patrons of the Oroville school have ev
ery reason to feel proud of the accom
plishments of the home basket ball
team. It has lost but one game with
Okanogan, and had a game taken by
the bludgeon process at Conconully.
As an offset to these two losings the
locals have won two games from Re
public, two games from Molson and
two games from Okanogan. The team
has traveled long distances and under
greater hardship and dlscomforture on
those trips than any basket ball team
in eastern Washington. Hats off to the
high school boys who shoot the bas
kets.
SEED GROWERS MEETING.
The Oroville Seed Growers associa
tion wil hold a meeting in the town
hall at 2 o’clock tomorrow (Saturday.)
afternon for the purpose of discussing
matters of interest to the members.
The association is in a flourishing con
dition and those connected with it will
give seed growing a thorough trial. Al
ready an order has been placed with
the Kootenai Valley association for a
quantity of seed, and more will be se
cured to meet any demand at this
place. We look to see the seed industry
become an important one in this val
ley within the next few years.
FOR MUTUAL BENEFIT.
The real estate dealers have formed
an association known as the Oroville
Real Estate Dealers’ Association, with
the following membership: Osoyoos
company, Hart & Mills, L. F. Pour
tales, R. Butler, E. D. Cartier Van
Dissel, E. Truax and J. A. Blackler.
The purpose is to create more har
mony among real estate dealers and
land owners and thereby help towards
the satisfactory location of all pros
pective settlers. Any land owner wish
ing to list his land for sale will con
sider that he has listed it with all
when listing with any one member. A
uniform commission of 5 per cent will
be charged by members for making
sales of land within the irrigation
distirct.
SUNDAY SCHOOLJ'EA PARTY.
There will be a tea party given b' -
the Presbyterian Sunday school on
Saturday afternoon to the members
and friends of the Sunday school. A
special invitation is given to the par
ents of tha children to come and enjoy
this social feature with the ch'ldren.
Time 2:30 to 5 o’clock.
91.60 PER TEAR
