C Normal School.
the w:
1 Ml M V i$
THE TRIBUNE'S C1RCULA.
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU. : : :
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. : : : :
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV. AND THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, FEBRUARY 25, 1916.
NUMBER 7.
EEKLT
ROBERT G. CROW
LEAVES ARMY TO
REJOIN FAMILY
Former Postmaster at Caru
thersville Writes Wife He
Has Been Discharged.
DISAPPEARED IN 1914
TO ESCAPE AFFINITY
Wife Tells How Daughter's Grief
Forced Him to Write
Home.
Robert G. Crow, the former Post
master of Caruthersville, Mo., who dis
appeared from his home, December 21,
11M4, in order to free himself from
Mrs .Bessie Halliday of Illmo, with
whom he had been associating for
several years, is expected to return
home within a few days.
Two days after his disappearance he
joined the United States army at New
Orleans and was assigned to the Oast
Defense in the East. In a letter to
his wife, written from a city in Massa
chusetts, two days ago, he said he had
obtained his release and was return
ing home to regain his lost reputation.
Mrs. Crow and her husband have
been corresponding for almost a year,
but it ha? only been a few months
since this fact became known. For
several days after his disappearance,
his brother, Charles A, Crow, a former
Congressman, remained in St. Louis,
looking for the missing man.
Crow disappeared from the Tontiac
hotel in that city one day after he had
promised to meet the Halliday woman
there. When last seen he carried sev
eral hundred dollars in currency and it
was believed thai he had been murder
ed for his money. Finally he was giv
en up for dead, and Mrs. Crow made a
request for the amount of his life
insurance, but before the companies
had made arrangements to pay the"
claim, Mrs. Crow received a letter
from hiinand cancelled her request for
the money.
The fact that she had learned his
whereabouts was kept a secret, but
when Crow expressed a desire to re
turn to his wife and family and was
forgiven by Mrs. Crow, she notified his
relatives and friends that he was in
the army.
Crow's story of how he came to
communicate with his wife was told by
Mrs. Crow to close friends only last
week. One month after he joined the
army and was station in the East, he
had a soldier friend write to the Globe
Democrat in St. Louis, asking for cop
ies of the paper containing stories of
his disappearance.
In one of these was a statement
that his svcn-year-old daughter,
Ruth, had suffered a nervous collapse
over his strange absence. This so
affected Crow that he wrote to his
wife, notifying her of his whereabouts
and requested her to write to him.' She
complied and he answered, telling her
of the circumstances that had caused
him to disappear.
He had been associated with Mrs.
Halliday of Illmo for several years, he
wrote, and was unable to sever his re
lations with her. She wanted him to
marry her, he told his wife, and on
two occasions she had visited Caruth
ersville, to compel him to wed her.
In order to keep his relations with
her from his wife, Crow says, he
wrote the Halliday woman, asking her
to meet him in St. Louis. He tried to
effect a means for breaking off his re
lations with the woman, but after
meeting her in St. Louis, he decided
the only way to save himself and fam
ily from disgrace wowkl be to run
away, creating the belief that he had
been slain.
Crow pleaded with his wife to talcs
him back, promising never to stray
from the narrow path again. She
wrote a pathetic letter, forgiving him.
He then began working to obtain his
release. His brother, a former Con
gressman, went to his aid and induced
members of Congress to assist. He
was discharged last week.
Mrs. Crow- and her two small chil
dren are anxiously awaiting his home
coming. WALMANS HAVE PARTY.
Friends Gather to Cei.'brate Anniver
sary of Washingten's Birth.
A party of twenty-five friends Tues- j
clay night gathered at the home of
August Waldman at 25 South Sprigg
street to celebrate the anniversary of
George Washington's birthday.
Several games were features of the
Hackman Begins
A Hand-Shaking
Tour For Office
Warren County's Candidate
for State Auditor Believes
in Getting Close to The
Voters, and They Like
Him.
GEORGE E. HACKMAN
Of Warrenton. Republican Candidate
lor State Auditor.
George E. Hackman of Warrenton,
Mo., candidate for State Auditor, who
wa a visitor in the Cape to hear
Charles W. Fairbanks speak, is making
a hand-shaking campaign.
Mr. Hackman does not believe in
making speeches in a political cam
paign. He will do it if he is compelled
to, but he prefers to grab the voters
by the hand and hold a heart to heart
confab with them.
He is popularly known as "Hack,"
and he doesn't object to voters getting
en familiar terms with him, right off
the reel. In fact, he rather likes it.
Mr. Hackman. who is Secretary of
the County Clerk's Association of Mis
souri, is serv'ng his second term as
County Clerk of Warren County. He
was nominted without opposition for
the second term, and is known as the
meet popular man in Warren County.
"Hack" is as tall as Mr. Fairbanks,
and from the Alpine heights of the
upper story of Mr. Hackman, is a
pleasant smile which beams constantly
upon everyone he meets.
He has visited ninety-r.ine counties
in the state and expects to get over
every county in Missouri twice before
the primary in August. He notified
The Tribune that he will come back to
Cape Girardeau County to spend a
few days shaking hands and intrduc
ing himself to the voters.
Mr. Hackman is a Missouvian by
birth, but his parents were born in
Germany. He only talks war when
the subject is forced upon him, be
cause, he says, he is too strong for
Germany.
He made a decided hit while in the
Cape Tuesday.
entertainment. One o" the games
"peanut" euchre, a new institution
that has been started in the Cape.
&&&& ffl i!fnllff
Stork Party Given In Cape;
4"M MMM..f.. 44.4.4.4.4,
Bird Will Be Here In April
t,
"Weensy Teensy" Garments
Are Carried to Oakes home
By Married and Unmarried
Ladies.
Did you ever hear of a stork party ?
Probably not.
Well, the new fad has reached the
Cape.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Oakes, who
live on Morgan Oak, are looking for
ward to a visit from the bird, which
made Theodore Roosevelt famous. Ac
cording to the bird's itinerary, it will
reach the Oakes home sometime in the
early part of April.
Friends of Mrs. Oakes yesterday
surprised Mrs. Oakes with a stork
party. A whole houseful of ladies
called at the Oakes home, and each
guest brought a present.
There were little "weensy teensy"
dresses, hand knitted socks, jackets,
hoods with bows of ribbon upon them
KNEHANS PROBES
FRESH ASSETS
OF BANKRUPT
Two Dunklin Men Voluntari
ly Declare Selves Debtors
of S. M. Drew.
HIS SON HOLDS NOTES
FOR THEIR OBLIGATIONS
Referee Declares in Bankrupt's
Favor and Will Ignore
Debtors' Letters.
Referee in Bankruptcy Oscar A.
Knehans yesterday made an investi
gation of the affair's of Samuel M.
Dr?w. cf Campbell, a farmer, who
some time ago filed a voluntary petiti
tion in bankruptcy. The investigation
grew out of an implied assertion that
Drew, in making a schedule of his
assets for the b?nkruptcy court, did
not in elude two bills collectable
amounting to J 1 1 r.
Mr. Drew was summoned to the
Cape by Mr. Knehans to reply to the
questions prompted, by affidavits that
the Referee received relative to the
two bills collectable and last night the
question was settled in Mr. Drew's
favor.
Some time ago, Knehans received a
communication from A. J. Banthrall
of Dunklin Countv which included an
affidavit stating thai Mr. Banthrall
owed Mr. Drew S.10 on a not? .
The communication requested the
Referee in Bankruptcy to advise Mr.
Banthrall whore to make payment for
the obligation. A similar communica
tion including an affidavit for an obli
gation of 80 was received by the Re
feree from W. J. Mcintosh, and a sim
ilar request for advice? as to where the
money should be paid, was made.
Under an arrangement in settling up
the state of, Mr. Drew, Ins debtors
hi ve been making payment upon their
bills to a bank at Campbell, the money
then being used in settling up the
claim?, against the estate.
When Mr. Drew was apprised of the
communication in Mr. Knehans' hands,
he characterized thrni as "voluntary
obligations and declared the money
was owed to his son, Arthur Dell
Drew.
In support of his statements, he ex
hibited to Knehans, the notes which
had been signed by both Banthrall and
Mcintosh and made out to Arthur Dell
Drew, the sen of the man who filed
the petition in bankruptcy.
The son is solvent and the father in
sisted that his son's affairs, v. ho has
been maintaining himself for some
time, bo absolutely divorced from hi.s
own financial difficulties.
Referee Knehans laot night after
seeing the instruments held by Mr.
Drew, declared that he intended to ig
nore the communications from the
son's debtors, and they will be requir
ed to make the payment to the son
when the notes become due.
Drew told the Referee that the
money represented in the two notes of
his son's constituted the saving of a
long time by his son.
well, without naming everything,
there was nothing omitted that would
bring comfort to a baby.
"Well, well," sighed Grandma
Oakes, "if we just had a package of
safety pins, we would not have to buy
anything for the baby to wear until
it is old enough to walk."
Among those present were married
ladies ,some mothers and some not.
Others were young and unmarried wo
men, but every one of them brought
some little useful gift.
After a lengthy discussion of how
babies should be handled in order that
they may grow up into useful and re
spectable citizens, the ladies selected
partners and played bridge, at the
conclusion of which, luncheon was
served.
The stork party was pronounced a
"grand success," by one of the young
matrons who admitted that it was the
first stork party she had ever had the
pleasure to attend,
Americans Who Had Narrow
Escape From Death In Persia
hrh-WM Mil
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Shimmon, after a harrowing experience in Urumiah,
Persia, finally reached America by devious ways and are now co-operating
with the American committee for Armenian and Syrian relief. Mr. Shimmon
is an American citizen and a graduate of Columbia university. During the
massacres of the Christians in Urumiah by the Kurds and Turks, Mr. Shim
mon, by advice of the American missionaries, fled to Tiflis, leaving Mrs.
Shimmon under the protection of the American flag. She was au eyewitness
to the atrocities in Urumiah and the surrounding district. Her aunt and tincle
were shot and their bodies were burned. Her cousin, a young girl, refusing to
marry a Moslem, was made the victim of horrible abuse by the Kurds and
then her body was burned. Mr. Shimmon returned with the Russians.
WOMEN TO BEAUTIFY
COURTHOUSE PARK
Civic Assn. Plans Shrubbery and
Hydrangeas For South
Terrace,
Plans for a partial decoration of the
courthouse park with flowers and.
shrubs this spring have been made by
v. special committee of the Women's
Civic Improvement Association and
the tentative scheme will be brought
up before the organization Saturday,
March 4, for its apnroval.
Mayor Kage yesterday granted the
association permission to plant the
flowers and sr rubbery in :;uch places
in th? park as the women believe will
be the most advantageous, and it is
believed the plans now in view will be
carried out.
The special committee of the i:n
provemont association a short time ago
motored to several Darts of the City
to seek places wherein their work may
best br done and '.ho first was the
courthouse park.
Four other places were selected as
tentative -itcs for flowers and shrubs,
but the committee, members have not
announced their plans for those places
because permission to use the ground
has not been obtained yet.
The committee was composed of
Mrs. John H. Himmelbergcr, Mrs. R.
H. Schultz, Mrs. Paul Leming, Mrs.
W. S. Dearmont, Mrs. J. P. Meyers,
Mrs. A. H. Hinchey and Mrs. George
Bell.
In the courthouse park, a row of hy
drangeas will be planted on the Span
ish street side, at the foot of the last
terrar.ee, leading from the southern
boundary of the park, north toward
the flit cf steps leading from Themis
street.
The flowers will be used to block
off a low place at that point and beau-
-
tify that spot, the remainder cf the
park, having natural advantages that
compensate in a measure for lack of
flowers's presence.
Likewise between this point and
Lorimier street, along the southern
side of the park, a series of shrubbery
clumps will be planted.
Mrs. Himmelberger yesterday tele
phoned to Mayor Kage to ask the per
mission to plant the flowers and shrubs
in th2 park. :The Mayor readily ac
ceded to the organization's request and
stated last night that he will be glad
to see the improment in the park. He
declared that he is anxious to do any
thing in his power to further their
work.
The new e!ectric lamps will be in
stalled cn the corners of the courl
kouss park this spring, the Mayor
said, in conforroity with a plan made
last fall by he and A. M. Tinsley, local
manager of the local Public Utilities
Company.
.1?
CO. TR. KERSTNER
FAINTS AT BANQUET
Heavy Smoke and Heat Cause
Illness Hy Brinkopf
Revives Him.
County Treasurer J. H. C. Kerstner
of Jackson, who is a candidate for the
Republican nomination for hi.s re-election,
yesterday had recovered from a
severe fainting spell which he suffered
Tuesday night at the Republican ban
quet at West Knd hall.
Mr. Kertsner accompanied by F. H.
Schrader of Jackson, and Henry Brink
opf of the Cape, was sitting at a table
near the speakers' table at the ban
quet. The diners had crowded in close
around his position and in the mid-;t of
the speech by X. A. Mozley cf Blocm-
field, Mr. Kerstner was overcome by!
th heat an dheavv siv.okc to which he
was unaccustomed.
He fainted in his chair and was held
from falling to the floor by his com
panions. Brinkopf and another diner
nearby aided in carrying Mr. Kerst
ner from ihe room where some water
war, obtained and he was revived. He
regained Ids strength Tuesday night,
but decided not to return to the ban
quet hall.
Mr. Schrader, who accompanied Mr.
Kcrstrer from Jackson to attend the
banquet, is a candidate for the Re
publican nomination for County Asses
sor to succeed William A. Bowers of
Oak Ridge. Mr. Schrader is Deputy
County Clerk.
Henry Brinkopf is in the race for
the Republican nomination for Sheriff.
SCIIERF LANDS IX U. S.
Cape Lad Scr.ds Worn Will Be Home
Soon As He is R?!cascd from
Xavy.
Henry Scherf of Good Hope street,
j father of Joseph Scherf, the Cape boy
who eight years ago last August join
ed the navy and cruised around the
world and throughout Oriental waters,
has received word from his son saying
that he has landed at Bremerton,
Wash., and that he expects to arrive
home as soon as he can obtain his
discharge from the service.
Several days ago, Robert Zimmer,
one of young Scherif's closest friends
while he was in the Cape, received a
postal card from him, mailed at Hono
lulu, Hawaiian Islands, saying that he
expected to be in the Cape by Feb
ruary 20.
His communications to his parents,
however, indicate that it will require
some time before he may obtain his
discharge from the navy. After that
he is expected to arrive here at any
time. His frienJs have been expecting
him daily this week.
Scherif formerly was a foreman at
the Cape Brewery & Ice Company, and
has a large circle of friends here.
TO CUT-OFF
Defies Leaders In Congress
And Warns Them Not
To Interfere With His
Plans-Senator Stone Who
Planned To Speak In De
fense of Wilson's Policy,
Will Now Oppose Him.
Washington, Feb. 2: With a genuine crisis with Germany confronting1
the United States, President Wilson and Congress are at loggerheads to
night over the quetsion of what the policy of this country shall be.
President Wilson has precipitated a situation never before precedent. l.
Never before in the history of the United States has there been an occasion
when the executive head of the nation and Congress have been so widely
apart on a matter of such gravity.
As a climax to a day of chaos, the reply of Germany to the latest de
mands of the United States reached Washington tonight. While it.s con
tents are not publicly known, it is understood to moot the disapproval .f
Mr. Wilson.
He has told the leaders in both branches of Congress that he is pie
pared to force an immediate showdown with the Teutonic All if s, and he
warned the leaders in Congress that any interference with his handling of
the situation would not be tolerated.
The break between President Wilson and his advisers in Congress was
whispered in the Congressional hal:s today when it was, learned that Sen
ator Stone of Missouri, who had announced that he would deliver a speech
in the Senate, upholding the President's policy, had cancelled thes'' plans.
When asked for an explanation. Senator Stone decline I t- mac any
comment.
A conference of Pieident Wilson, memlers of the (!;!. :iv t and leaders
in Congress, consum.1 levern! hnirs
circulation, and win :o in to ' authentic, the meeting :i d vh r. Mr
Wilson issued an uhi.Tiu'iim tc hi-; advisers.
It is believed that :.'?oso who hae stood by President Wii;i.n are oing
to take a decided stand in Congiess against him tomorrow. headers of
both parties looked glum tonight, but had no announcement to make.
The White House refused to : ni.iit members of the various pr?ss asso
ciations, but a high official in the counsels of the President said that Mr.
Wilson had determined to force Germany's hand.
The crisis was precipitated when Germany refused to withdraw the
armed merchantman decree, which was demanded by the United States. In
brief, the attitude of Germany is that it will regard all armed merchantmen
as war vessels and will treat them accordingly. It is said that some of the
leaders in Congress are upholding the attitude of the German government.
Whether England has broken faith
with the United States in questions af
fecting arming merchantmen was a
new question raised today in the sub-
marine warfare dispute with Germany.
Examination of State Department
archives disclosed a British pledge di
rectly bearing on the Teutonic-American
controversy. If officials believe
this pledge has been broken, protest to
England is probable. The British
promise was that England would not
permit merchantment to take the of
fensive against submarines. Against
this, Germany is mailing copies of al
leged secret orders of the British Ad
miralty to English merchant vessels
to sink submarines of the Central Pow
ers whenever possible and under any
conditions.
Aug. 25, 1914, British Ambassador
Spring-Rice wrote Mr. Bryan, then
Secretary of State, that he had been
instructed by his Foreign Office to give
the United States t'he fullest assur
ances" that British merchantmen
would never be used for purposes of
atttack and that they would never fire
unless first fired upon.
While Secretary Lansing has con
tinually held that negotiations with
the belligerents should be carried on
separately, this government may de
mand fulfillment of Spring-Rice's
pledge, if the papers en route from
Berlin prove existence of the alleged
secret orders to British vesesls.
Washington, Feb. 23. Senator Gore
will introduce a resolution in the Sen
ate tomorrow, asking that Americans
be warend to stay off armed ships. A
similar resolution has already been in
troduced in the House by Congress
man McLemore.
Activity late today of House mem
bers, urging the passage of the reso
Iutino caused Democratic leaders much
tonight, and accord:r...r to rc-priv :'n
concern.
A Missouri delegation blew the.
smoldering discussion into flames by
calling on Senator Stone and insisting
that American should be warend to re
main off the ships.
"I told the Senator that I was far
adopting such a resolution immendi
ately," Representative Decker declared
later. "I fear we are on the brink of
war and we should avoid it if possibl".
Xo Democrat is more willing to uphold
the hands of the President than I am,
but I think this is a step that shou' I
be taken with regard to his views."
Representative Igoe was another
who told Senator Stone that the senti
ment for reporting the resolution w.s
strong.
Reports of the visit of the Missouri
delegation caused much excitement
on the floor. Groups of representa
tives gathered in the cloak 100ms arid
discussed the situation earnest'". Rc p
resentative Flood, chairman of th
Foreign Affairs Committee onferrr-;
with Majority Leader Kitc'n, who
soon afterward hurried Speaker
Oark's office.
London, Feb. 2f5. Led by the Crown
Prince, 280,000 Germans arc attacking
the French on the front of 25 miles in
a collosal smash on the Fortress of
Verdun. They have broken through
the French lines on the front of ten
miles to a depth of two miles and are
within eight miles of the fortress. The
village of Haumont is in the hands of
the Gerrmans, 3nd many French are
in retreat.
It is the most furious attack that has
been made in a year, and proau'ses to
take precedence over any offensive
movement of the war. The French
and British view it as the last tre
mendous effort of the Germans in that
region.
