lili
I
51ST YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916.
NUMBER 43.
I'ltOliATK C0III1T .MATTKItS.
Judfe Duafan Disposed of Many
Cases at the February Term
Held Last Week.
Probate Court Is lielil on tlic second
Monday of February, May, Augut
and November four tlmen each year
wlilclt ore tho regular term! tins
other nm ailjourneil term, usually
of one tiny each. Other adjourned
term nre held u the buslncs limy
require.
The follow Ing case ncto disposed
of nt the rcgulnr Kcbrunry telm of
the Probate Court which wn held
lat week:
KstntP of Joieph Prgginger, minor;
(!. W. Cummin, guardian. Fourth
nnnunl settlement, bnlanec $102 !.!..
Ktntn of Mnrthn (illll, Incnitipo
tent; (!. W. Cummin, guunlin.i.
Fifth nnnunl vttlement, balance
i-llM.'i.
Kstntp of Ccmgp V. Hanker, de
ceased; (i. W. Cummin. nduilnlsttn
tor. Firt settlement, balance $!.,-
(i7'.!'..
Kstnlo of William linwlctt, deroa
oil; Augusta llowlett, ndmlnlitrntri.
Demand of Fanner Hunk, note, $.!.
filT.Ml allowed.
Kstntp of Hugo Catron, rt nl. m1-ii.ii-..;
('. (', Catron, gunrdinn. Fifth
nnnunl M'ttlciiionl, l:i fiiitcc of SI.T.'W.
Tit. Kstntp of llnr.el lliieher, minoi;
lam C. Iluchcr, guunllmi. First settle
ment, balance y.'iH'Wi.S.V
Kstnte of ,M. Thompson Collin. d.
censed; (i. W. Cummin. iiihuluisliu
tor. Appropriation for n inumimi'iit
Illll to I'M'eed $III0.(KI.
Kstnte of Fiiietl" II. Kckh-s. minoi;
(!. V. Cummin. guardian. Fluid
M'ttlriiunt HLilniiit till In till cstnie
und liiilnnrc nrdeii-d turned over to .1.
I!, Jeffiey, of Noitonvilti', Kmisii...
uiid the guardian in Missouri I dis
charged. Kstate of ,Mnyell Markt. minor;
Fivderiek .Mnrkt. irunnllan, Final
M'ttlemrnt of tliU minor, she linviiii'
renrheil her majority hiilnncp nf
Slitl'.OO. (iuariliiin d srhurgei
Kstntp of Theresa Spool lo, docpus-
ed! i, .Mimic, executor. I'llltl set
tlemeiit. balance of J'-MIMH. Dislrl
butlon of -171.(10 to the nine heir.
Kstntp of Ktlin Ann Sleirett, 1.. I.
.Mooiv, nilmlnitintor. I nth nnnunl
M'tttement. bnhmro of f :.H tH.CC.
Kstntp of It. C. Ilenton. deceased;
Far I Ilenton. administrator. Flint
settlement, balance duo administrator
:ii.'i.kh.
Kstoto of William Knenle. dcrrns
il Clarn A. linealc, administratrix.
Order of nle of iieronaltv made.
Ktati of Jee Mnrkt, minor; Fred.
itick .ubiki, Kuarillnn. mini settle
inent. balnnro of tITT.'M.
Kstnte of Arthur and Karl Johnson,
minor; Miner K. Johnson, guardian,
lleiiort of sale of real estate taken up
and alc approved anil deed ordered.
r.siate in lieorKe v. llllilinril. in
eoiillictent: John M. Ilibbaiil. irunr
ilian. Healing und adjudged to right
mind nml settlement ordeied.
Kstnte of Wiley Carter, ilt-ccascd;
.iiiu-i, iiniiiiiiisiriitri:!, Mill
tlliued.
Kstate of .Mary A. Fltzmnuiieo. do
reused; Fd .M. Fitr.maurice, iiitmlnN
trntoi'. Demnud of Ktctrcr mid Klei
ner taken un nml not allowed.
Ktnte of William Kaufman, do
ceased: K. F. Welter, administrator
Demnnd of Clio. W. Wyman, ,M. j)
SI47..!r. allowed.
Instate of (iuy A. Ilurkminiter,
minur: urnrcca i;. lluckuunlslcr,
guurdlan. First settlement, balance
?;.n. mi.
Ktate of .Mary A. Fitzmnurire, de
ceased: K. ,M. Fitzmaurire. ndmlnl.
tintor. Demnnd of It. II. llrhlKcman
.Jlil.8.1. allowed.
Kstate of Aubry Nolnnd, deceaHed;
it. ii. iiriiigcman, auminitrntor. 1 Jo
liiiind of Dawson Si .Moore, $111. Ml,
allowed.
l-.tate of C. C. Cunningham, do
rented; A. I), CunninKhaui, nilmlnU
tintnr. Demand of Wllli..ucn
i.umuer uo.. or Ural. sn.hO, allowed
,Ktate of lilchard .Shepard, ilcreni
oil; 1 1. .M. Derr, executor. Deiunml of
imwMin 4: Jloore, JIOII.OU, ullowcd.
KMule of Cerhardt II. Hull
,V,if'lll,ll-
Flit K'ttlcnient, balance of $,.'J.ri.(i7
. in lavnr ni mo executor,
Khtate of T. C. Dunirnn. iler,ni.iil
France I. Dunirnn. iiiloilnli.irnirlv
Demand of C. I). Zook, $L',4ri!l.:rj, and
amih iiuii ki t imnK, .i,ii'.i,i.w.i, ni
lowed.
KMnte of Ituth N. Murkt and olh
ei. minor; W. F. Mnrkt, irunnllan
rourtli etttement, nbout $J,(l(H) to
I'Ul'll.
Ktnte of AeMlale Heir, minor
. J. Aesdnle, (,'uanllan. Third mi
mini hettiemcnt, lialnnco ?'.',(iH!l.,ri().
Ktate of Jentlm I). Clnvlm,,,!
minor: .Mnttipon II. Thonins.L'unidlnn
Seventh annual settlement, balance
7iifi.li'
. Kxtate of liny .Miller, minor; .1. U,
Denrmont, rurntnr. Fleventh minimi
M'uiemoni, lininnre SI 18.(1(1.
l-.Ktnto of .Mary A. I'itzmnurlee,
ileconHed: Kd .M. Fitznmnrlii. mliuln.
Utrntor. First Hcttlement, Imlatue of
C'l ILVI I"
Khtate of (.eoiKo W. I.acey. deeen'
cd; h. I'. Weller, executor. Proof o!
Iiiiimcniiuii of notice of letter criint
wi men, nnu iirm hettlenicnt, baluiie
of ILMl.!).").
hstnto of Clnrcnce T. Iluirhc. mi
nor; J. A, William, guardian. Flrjt
eciiicment, uaiance or $1)10.00.
Kntnte of James Ilrohnn. ilei-ensml
Application" for letter, bond renuircd
of $1,000.00. K. E. Itlchards appoint
ed administrator. Bond filed, letters
issucu, w-iincsses appointed, Inventory
in,.-,, nun jciuireu io give nonce.
Estate of Jacob C. Aniloa
A. It JIcNulty, Bdmlnlstrstor. Final
settlement, no balance, and adminls
trntnr i dichnrRed.
Kntnte or Peter lllley, ilecenfeii;
Lincoln A. Hunt, executor. Tenth
rettlement, Imlnnce of $:,'JJl.r,n.
Kntnte of William hrie. ilecenreil;
l.oiiine Frie. administratrix. Flrt
rettiement, balance of $l,:t(l!i..i(5.
Kntnte or Jnme Ilrohnn, ilcreneil;
K. K. Itlchanl. ndminlotrntor. De
mand of Zook & Itoecker llankinirCo..
$4(i(l.0S, note, allowed.
KMnte of T. I,. I'rlce, ileceneil; l).
M. nnd M. I!. .Mnrtln. executor. De-
ninnit of Dawron & Mooie. SIDI'.oO
and Jl'.fi.oo, nllowed.
K.itate of Aureil I). CunniiiRliam,
lerenced; A. D. Cunnlnithnni. nilmln-
Intrntor. Flrt eltlement, lialnnco of
?!:.riS.
I.atnte of Delia Hunter, ilerenreil:
W. A. Sham, nilmlnirlrntnr. Firt
settlement, balance of $:i'l74.f,S. Or
der Rrnnted to sell the u nity by tl.e
court of hi own motion upon exami
nation of settlement.
I.stnte of John l.eufs, ilereni-ed; J.
Patterson, executor. First settle
ment. Iinlnnri' of $h71.'."J. und order
nf distribution.
I.stnte of l.meliiie lltltrher. ilereni-
ed; J. F. Weller. ndmlnlstrntor. I'lrst
settlement, Imlnnre of f.llMI. Iie.il
etnte f onleleil sold for the navmrni
of dibts.
I.stnte of (iiiirKP W. I.nce, ilecen
t V.. I. Weller. executor. Order nf
listributloii n per form llleij.
i.sinie or .mine iiiolinn. ilinan"l;
I!. Illilunils. nilminlsti.'itiir. OiiI.t
mnde for ndmlnlstlntnr In rell null v.
I state or I. (, Dunirnn, diffused;
i unci's I. DuiiL'aii. nilnilnlsiniiilv.
Demnnd of llurrier .V- Silnilto. .'".i.ki.
allow til.
I.stnte of .Mnrv A. Fitzmnurire. !.
i-eniied; Kd M. I'itzmniiriee, inlniiin-
tnitnr. Iiimuml on note of $l::i;.u,
ullowed.
I.stnte of l.izile .. I.'oifker. il.
eased; MontKomer A. lioerker nnd
ill)' I. Cummin, exet'iitors. De-
ninnil of Zook A: Itmil.er, notes, ?ll.-
,ii; uuwson .Mnoie. ?l!l!l; Dr. J. I
lloKnn, $10; Dr. llulliH-k, $:i(l; Hi.
tlelKer, $.Vl; Ort'Kon PlumbinK
HentiiiK Co.. $li.ill. nil ntlowiil.
I.stnte or I. C. DuiiRiin, ilecenseil;
inure I. Duncan, udminlstrntriv.
Inventoiy nnd npiinlseinent bled.
Ilemnnil or li. . i uniniin,
I'.'d.l", nllowiil.
Kstnte of W. Jl. reikln. tiecrnMn;
Sti'illiik' I'. IViklus, ndmiuistintor.
Onler made for a nionumenl.
Iinti- nr T. I. I'r re. ilecenseil; n.
M. and .M. II. .Martin, ndmlnistiiitori.
Il,., nr., I nf lien I lavs. Jl!.:i7: J. I',
rhulcher. $l.'..r.(); I. O. O. F. I-oiIijo,
rent, VSiMU nllowini.
Kstnte or James r. osiou, neve.ii
nl . I ilu'ril'i I ('. (!iitou. udmlnlstiutor.
Il nmli ,r Mnnrliesler & Dodds. of
Skldmole, $.Ti:i.U(l; .1. t . .MUIIIIIIIK, l.
D.. Skhlmore, S'JoK.r.ll, nlloweil.
.I.Utt! of jolin Illliliiil ren
,Ti i ,.iii.ii ii CiimiI. nml Nettle .M
llibbnrd appointed to collei't und wind
''V.tnti' 'of Ceorire W. Ilibbaiil, In
.,i,i.ii.i,ti .Inliti .M. Ilibburd. ifimr
iliuii. Nettie .M. Illl.hanl make llunl
sett ement In till esteute lor ner
husband, showim; u bnlnni f $!,
ii-'s. nml (i. W. milliard in oneu
coin t licknowleilKe receipt oi ine nni-
mice anil receive III estate, us run
'i,iiiiil In the iimtiniremf nl theifOt.
I stnte of John 1 tiomel. ilecenseil:
W. T. Crew, executor. Ileinund of
Clin, (ialfney for S'JT.tHI not nllowed.
Deuiund or O. w. .Mtumnii, M. i'.
$!"."!, nllowed.
1-state or I lav i ninnil, iiccen'
! Ceo. W. I'ovnter. ndinitilstrutoi',
ilemnnil oi j, i nine iv w., , ui
low 111.
stnte of 1. zz e .M. Iloecker. D
mand of MontKoniery A. Itmcker,
$t,H,VJ.IIH, ulloweit,
Kstnte of William llowlett, ilecea
ed: Auirusta II. Itowlett. niliiiinlstiM
trlx. Deiunnil of .MrNuul & l,es
Smith, liv Lee Smith, administrator,
$4.00; William DrtiK Co., s.iii.;in; iru
Williams, .l. I'.. $l.ii.iiii; i.evi .i
Ihomiison. f.'OH.riO: ,M, J, .Morroril
SII..MI. nllowed.
i-:stnte or f orest uuv ice Jinnuinc-
turliiK Co., u partnership; J. K. .Mc
Coy, udmlnlstralor. Demnnd of
western kock nan i.o.. ni. i.oui
S47.W): Star Coal Co.. $77.trt; N. A
Kennedy Supply Co., ?I!M(I; Honif
Hank. S'j.iiliN.iiri. nlloweil.
r he other estate on the docket
were continued. Court adjourned to
the second .Mommy of .Mnrch, tho tilth.
County Court Tiike a Juunt.
The Honorable Colintv Court.
Holt Countv. romnoM'il of D. C. Stal
In nl. niesld nir Judire: .M. I.. Nor
innn, judge of the upier illsttirt, anil
Peter 11. Itnlser, Juilge of the lower
dihtrict, nccompunleil by County
Clerk D. II. Kunkel, nnd County IliKii
wiiy Cngincer, John II. I'eret, left
here .Monilny evenlnir of tin week for
nt. Loul nml I en r llnute,lnuwiieie
they go a the guest, nml nt the c.
pense, so wo have heeii luroniieil, o
tho .Mlssour llrlilge nml Iron Co,
of St. Louis, und A. I.. Cieenlierg .V.
Co,, of Term Haute, liul. They wiM
lie nii.-enl scveiui imy.
Fih fi r Pig Lake.
The stnte lish hntchery, sj'-th of
the city, win in open in visitors to
day. At thi time viitor will have i
cliauce to inspect the liulllutljii u:ul
to mi u,(iiiii,niiii Imliy riiinhow t.-ujt
uverunliig an inrh in lenirth. recenllv
hntrlii'il for shipping to the streams
In Ozmk legion. The eggs were ie
ce'ved licro n month ago from t!io
covernment llsh hatcherv nt .Man
chester, Iowa. Tho placo will soon be
put In readlties for a consignment of
10,000,000 wall-eyed plko egg to tic
seni ncre irom rut-m-uay, Ohio,
When hatched these fish will be ills.
tributcd in Lake Contrary, Dig Luke,
at Ulgelow, Mo., and other lakes
throughout Northwest Missouri. Ga
zette, St. Joseph, AIo., Feb. 20.
SO.MF. I1II.LVI1YDADS.
I.nsl week I rend inv ronv of th
Oregon. Mo.. Sentinel with more limn
the usual relish. It I now ;i cnr
nee I ntiit go nc to school nnd mv
last school day were at Oregon, to i
begin a "devil" In the Sentinel office.
And ror thirty-six year tnc oi.i
school house on tho hill, where I
could hnve studied, and didn't, nnd
where I should hnve learned n lot,
and learned but little, served the chll-
lien of that beautiful little city. It
,n a iiingnlhcent Dunning in my
mithfol i nn. but It rhoweil mi noor-
y these latter day, when rouipnred
Ith the iniMiern school inniuing. ni
ben I nicked up lut wi-ek' Senti
nel, 1 snv the picturn nf the hnnd-
iiinir, up-to-iliiti' school liiillilltig they
nil just ileillcuteil, nml tne sigiu ni
I rni ilnl me li.uk In other dnvi.
Thnnk goodness, they did hot wrec's
the old building to make room for tin1
new one, Tlie hnve preseneil Hint
hUtoiir old builitlng nnd will use It
nir school inn poses r'ght tiintig. ami
use it, ulsii, for n g niiinsluin. I hope
thnt o i building will stunil until long
nfter I luiM- been Hilled fmni the
scene of nrlinn. I wnnt to see 'l
everv lime I go bark to the old .Mis
souri homo mi n visit.
Mv. O mv. what fnntii torip thnt
Id li'.lll.lill" ruiilil tll i. fie It gifted
ith speech; Alnl 'mw some or our
liililiiii would hhili if il told them ol
limp of the prnik nlnjeil thililn
mil nniui d iiIhiiiI li tin ir imreiit
Iti.t not nil of the lii mid girl who
went to M'heul In ti at old buildlmr
thirt) nud 1'irly lent' ngo spent tin It'
lime phi) lug prniik, . Some of llnri
u'ci'i' seii, ins iiiniigli nt time, nnd
real I v tiled to liiuti. Ihev linil fieri
cliaiii'o. Ion. just like the rest of nr.
The dlireit'l'.re litis t linl they hud
ense enough to gin-p ll.iir ii.or-
tunities.
We l.nve Ihimi wideli senttend dill-
Inir these tliliti or fin 1 1 liars. Munv
ll'e sleeping iM'liratli the little IllnlltliU
III (linl s ncre in widely sepnrnteil
slates. Some niisweieil the rail nf
tlx II iiiuntiv in '!i.s. nud left their
bones in Cubnii or Plillliiipine Jungte.
.I'lii,- null- Klioeii we iii'llfll, some
hnve been ornament nt Hie bar. some
o I.- I .. i iT
lire sueeessful meirbuiits.tivn or three
hnve iiiiule n plnee for themselve In
(he lileinry wm Id. Hut I ventuip
to usseit t int on mutter how irrent
their sueresse. nor lion hnppy their
present t-nniiiiinns, uil'le I not one or
thrill who doe not. just n I i n. ooti
over the foliliilUK or the old Sentinel
week nrter week und enjoy the hlstor
Icnl article peuneil by "Deacon"
I'liiiyns. it seem n oiiir 1 hue .
fiieen the now nnd the then, but,
hips your soul, it I not. "Deacon '
Diibvn wn editor or the S',ilii,l
when I began rubbing in the olllre,
thlity-l year ago. und Tom Cuny
wn then hi paitner nml the business
niunnger. "liemon" still eililor nnd
I mil I still husliif manager.
The nlctuie of the new school Iiuiim
has given mo the "Oregon fever"
again. I mti going down thete Just hi
soon as the weather settle down and
I rate h the scent of the ni'iirli nud
tipple nnd plum lilossom riom tin
southeast. And when I get there tin
first thing I'll do will bo to hunt up
loin und "Denron," mid the li ly next
thing will be to hunt tin one or tho
old school rhuiii nnd walk tin the lull
to take a look nt the new temple or
learning. Then we'll walk over nnd
sit down on the step or the old build
ing and spend an hour iirnll ng tin
chum scattered here und Minder,
and pay u silent tribute to the mem
ory or those we ll never see again un
til we answer the roll call or the
Cleat Tenrhrr who preside met
theie.-The Yolk, Neb., Democtnt, by
will .M. .Man pin.
HIS I'ltOI'KIt sti:i
We approve the resignation of See
retnry (iurrison. lie should huve no
place in un American cabinet nt any
time. A man who openly or pri
vately wishes to saddle the Franco-
iiiTimin army system on the United
State line not belong in the public
ine oi un country.
Congre I iiroceedine to dn lis
duty in the mutter of piepnreilness,
nnii iiiui nuty uikc u inr iiwny I ruin
the fool plan of Secretary (iurrison,
to plnster n gieut iilmv system mi
this country. When congress llnlshe
we win nave a strong navy, u tespec
tuliln nucleus of un imnv. ndeimnie
rousi iieiense nml u well estulilished
luilitln. Wur ileimrtnieut plan will
be In the discard. A few good rill
zen.i huve fallen In with the bleu Unit
the tiuiTisnu plan of alarming t
country i u good one, but the iihik
nml llle, the lione mid s new. of I n
coiintiy are against an enorniou nm
costly iirmy nt the expense or the ul
lenny iiuriieneii taxpayer.
1 1 ml His Shine.
Coye, the little fi-venr-old son
.Mr. mid .Mrs. Karl Wilson, Is mm
much netter. doing uhle to take In
fustnmnr.y nluce nt the family tnhl-
aflir n continued sickness nnd con
llnement to the bed s Ine e the in h hlli
of December, He jui been n iiclini
or tonsilitis, liroiichltl, pneumonia
nml most nil the other ills flesh
heir too, and the other day, while sit
ling up in hi little lied, lie to d hi
uinmniu he wished she would go nnd
get him the measles and munms. We
do hopo till dcur little fellow, tho
sunshine of tho home, will now come
to a complete recovery.
County Knglnecr Perct inform
inform us that tho bridgo for the
Jnlin Wntsnn tllns-n nnrnio Un.lniinu
Drainage Ditch, No. t, will bo shipped
this week, and the erection of tho
same will be begun soon after its
rival.
New Firm.
Howard S, Teate ami Uoberl 0
Ituley, two llva wires In the hiitlne
affairs of lid section, have puichiH'il
the batitviaro stock ul the late Thom
as L Price, of this city.
I'ncse )oung men are live, ener
getic Inutile men, of extensile ac-
liululaiice, who fully realize t lie lui-
idtaiico of Ulr and iiare dealing
as I'soetitlals tu liuiliiv "tucceis. and
In 'bin they wilt emiiUte the example
of 'heir predtcenr.
lr Trite ilh tflor f leveliue
of ureuiiiii) fur lour iiaitanil made
adiiilialne oitlcer. ai.it ptlorlo that
si li, en bet of the II nil of Teate
lit ibei, nii'ii'li.uils ul limit City
Mi llnlel lias, fur e.irs, liven a
emlier ui tin Hiitilier tlrui of Ittl e)
K i iKul, of till- oil), illll lit ell 1 1 ti i il
l h iither luipjrt.iiil Iiikiiii""! Inter
e uf the eli) .nni count), und has
been left Mici'iful. ir Teate will
sie the ii.an-iKi inent nl Hie store.
:ttl I .Mr. Utile) wl.i iiin.iliiat the linn
lur ).ird.
We bespe.ik f T tl.e ne-i linn a gen
i ii pat rulia.'e
- i, -
A Double Aff.iir.
m l'fbrii.i,.l in n. IM i' D . i.ik
in I Killill.l I Hit) ni'ie ill.illliil.
nil.iiile iiil.tr ,i. the Jim
Id- if i III-piper .nut Ml- tVlilie lllllh.1
liililiiii . ,irih'ti.iiiil l prllicl-
U In a l nll.ir ivieui un The iv-
i'ji-i ,'! we ' dull Ve'i'li -t ed Joint i)
li. lie pinl .unl I lie I un li" .11 the
li to- nf Mr. .ml Uf. -k, In Milt
tin i. Sunday lat . In the form
( an t'l.iliir.ile illiiner, at which
SK'ther Curri . n ni in her "n'li le.ir
i).viipleil a place nt the talitu ur
li. led 1 1) her clilhUeii. II wa a
ii rj h.tpp) altalr. made eopeclaH) so
1 1) I lie pri'H'tn'o of Mother Curt). I
Ingalilelo patlk'lnle, after a lung
lilltiemelit to her -Ick rotun
Home from Hie South.
U mi lie Walker, wife mid little
miii. ul lived in Olfgnii, luesdu) of
I - link, fl on i .Macon. .Mississippi
hern thei hale hem lor seleinl
.mills, visiting hi brother, l-mi
enee. nud lainl.i. who ins nougni il
farm mid loctitiil their, und Is well
n fused with lis new home, the pen
lie mid silllouniliug. inline rll
ip left them nil well mid hanpy. und
that they had their gulden in mid up
i- pens iii hlonm. and nil other garden
irurk looking line.
A Dig Sale.
1'he Cownn-Killinui sale, held Wed
nesilay of last week, I'lhruai) li'..
Hew a lug crowd, and the nulding
was llvel), good pilres lieing nallreil
for even thing, mid esnri lalh broml
sows, n bunch of 17 bringing ?7lli, un
nveinge or a little hetter than SI.
Per heiiil, A lot in summer rnlve
nveiuged fill per head, ami ever)
thing else sold in piopoitlou, Col. I
.M. itnhb iwciin ed the unci oncer
block, and il lie don't get tcsolts thete
is ii hole in the hlunket some place.
Had n llirllulii).
II. K. I'eret had a blltliduv U'n
nesilay, of Inst week, 1'ebiuiiry III,
mid it was the 7-d inn
he had had,
and the occasion wns miuli
especially
ileasant by his son John und wife
Hiving hi fal her mid family, ami sis
ter, .Mrs. .1, O. Seller am husband
of Ciulg, mid .Mis lllnl, rcleluate the
occtislon at hi home. It wn
nicely wotked a to be n surmise to
Kuiiuy relet, nni lie wns ii-uiv
surprised in seveinl way.
('nine Home for u Vl-ll.
Amo Wels. n former Oiciron Imv
son of llelirv Wels und wife, lesii'l
nig just south nl Oregon, was hen
Inst Snllll-ilm- nml SIiimiI.ii- i-ll(l .
Ids parents ami numerous friend, lie
now tesliles iieur liiihinsoii, linnsli
where ho is engaged in running
minis un hi :ni ncie or wheat, an
export to put in Mil acre in corn
lie say lie no eve the wheat in h
Section 4 II rll.'lll let. the lenev
cout of steel which lay on it so long,
apparently not Having Injured tho
Wheat, nirairn and gruss in i s nelL'h
borhonil. Ainm js making good with
n nig ii. lie leiuirt a or I n
torinei' iiiegiin citizen well and pins
i-iiiig
lliiral Currier .Meet.
The meiiiliei'H of the Kn. nt I, .ii,,..
Colliers' Assoiiatiun of the I'ouith
(.'oiiglesslouul I list lift of Missmni
held their scmi-miiuiid nieeting 'I'ues
diiy, Feb. 1".', hf the court iiumi uf the
redoiiil liullillng, In St. Joseph. Theie
were morning and nrtenioon sessions.
It iii ilrcldisl to send delegates to
the stnie meeting in llniinihal in Jul).
A 4!oinl nroginm wns cairleil out,
u. .,. i.uiiius, in mis ciiy, lieing on
'hi; I'logiiinu ilellvering tin tuldre,
"Olillgiitlons of Putiiuis." After the
meeting ruljouiiied. J. .1. Luken left
for linusns City, where lie met with
the executive hoard or till illstiict,
In session there, The cm Her from
Oregon In attendance were; F. II,
(raham ami John J. Lukrns.
.Mis Lillian Austin will leave
next week for New York Cllv.
she will resume her courso in voice
culture. Mis Lillian is now a (ine
vocalist. When she finishes this
course her friends predict a bright
luiurc lur ner.
Dies Under the Wheels,
lolin Thompson, aeil about li
years, a grand son of the late"! tide '
Han Ilahii, and who was born Just
south of Oregon, was killed and
(rightfully mangled by train 'J7, on
the 0. II Si (. line, Just south of
Napier about 3:.'l0 Sunday morning
Ut. Fcbrusry '.nth, I'.'in
I he unfortunate man had been In
the employ nf Dwlgbt Meyer on lili
farm north of Oregon and received
hl pay early Saturday morning. He
then came to town ami left at once
for St. .1 oie pi i, where It Is siiipopd
he st.i)ed nut II lliu north linind train,
No 'it, on which hi' took pastagc for
home. He evidently was .ulcepwlien
reaching Forest City, and wa carritil
hy ami left the train at Napier
As the body was found soutliot Na
pier Ii Is supposed lie started down
the track In make hi way to ForeM
lly, ami Mill being drowsy be laid
luwu on the track to llnMi hi nap
I be I wily was ilK'otered on the
track, hut too late to come to a step
before pawing oier the hodt-two
iMio p.ilngoier Ihe body.
Ilii'liml) was briiighl to I Id cllv.
in. I p'aCed III i'Ii:Um' of li.iwsoil
Mo ire. utulertakers. from wbleh
place the linl) was taken ami burled
in WeiliU'Ml.iy.
UN father wa (ienrge 'l'liouiion.
wbn died here In l-' i ur 170, ami his
not her resides In tin v.
Mrs. M.i'lmli Maoh. of I'riderlck
inwn. MIsHouil: Mr Aim.i Kfner and
Mrs ti N Miller, of I ores! ( It) an
units: Dick llaiui. of ( iregou ami I'm
Ilahii of Fori'st City, and lieorge Kn
ills, of Itock I'ort are uiii'les.
i, - - -
Cnthnrine 'l'lirailkill-l Initutt.
t .itliarlne 1 hrallHl -llainni was
Ii.iiii at Salem, Mn , In Kin. Departed
Il ls life, I thrtiar) I, I'Un. aged n
)ears.
MIsiTbrallklll was married lo An
drew .1. Datum in I--V, She Issurvlv
ed by t in sous, one daughter ami one
brother, We-ley llaiiliti.nf New I'ulnt!
II C. Hainm, nf Marjillle California,
ami .Mr. O.ias. (!ldlders,of theCroseu
-clioolillwlct. iweuty grand ami seien
gie.it 'graiulchildreii, and a large cleric.
of friends to mourn their loss In the
death uf Ibis good woman
Mr 1 1 .iiiui) was baptlt'd lutu the
llsly or Church of Christ on the con
fission of her Faith In Chrht In l"7J
by Khler W. II Harihiiau, then uf
Ciruil, Jill., her husbaul ami two
oldest sons uniting at the same time.
To IhU comersloii she added a well
ordered Christian walk, and chose
couiersatlon InChrlst Jesus, her Lord
Of these four, after the passage of II
)e.irs, uuly one remains un Ihe Shores
of Time.
A. .1. II mini had been dead Just VI
)eats, on Ihe day Mrs ilatniu died
February I, Will 1 1 am tit djlug a few
)eirs earlier, leaving Jtilni Wesle)
llaiiini, of New Point, as the only
survivor of tho four. It. C. Ilainmatnl
Mrs Chllders are younger children
Mrs llainni lived on Ihe Old llainin
farm, two miles tiorthwesl of New
Point, for over years,
Inning the Civil war she sulTered
all the hardships of lis horrors. She
was as true to a friend as the "Needle
lo the Pole," and those that knew
never doubled Aunt Kitty, Karth
prod lice few hetter women, ami the
fool steps she. lias left are woithy to
pattern after of all who knew her
We laid the silent remains to rest In
the Cowan cemetery, near New Point
on M jhday, February L'l, In the
presence of a large and sympathising
audience.
' sMi-r. Hum in.isl nillil iiiel lot fly.
Ili'lllle I In mi miner hri l'f.
IMeiitun I ss the ulr ef eifiiliiu,
As It Ill's mil "14 I'm ire.'s.
Tlmti un mure sill Join our iiiuul'i'rv
Tlmu no m-iri'oiir sorrows knus,
liul 'll ilil lli il hsshi refl ii--llei'titi
lid imr sorrows lieiil '
KMIKIl W. II II.1IIHM.IN, V D. M S
His Final Summons.
James Tuckur, a highly respected
vlil.en of the Lincoln district, died at
his home, on Monday, of this week
alter a protracted illness, In the liltli
year of his age. He was horn In An
druw county, August u, ls.VJ
He Issurilied hyhls wife, two sons
anil a daughter Loriuiur, and Mrs,
Walter Moody of Mound City, and
Itoscoe, at hsmti.
Funeral services were conducted
from tho home, Tuesday, 'JJd Instant
by Itev. Albert Martin, of Forest.
City, the Interment being In Ml- Hopo
cemetery of Mound City.
Id-turn lo Southern Home.
O. I), (i. (ielvln. wifu and children.
Floyd ond Kthel, after passing tho
winter nctc Willi relatives ami many
friends took their doparturo Wednes
day of this week, for their home In
si. raui, nan i-aincio woumy, lexas.
Wo were all sorry to sco them ao
but wish them health and nrosnerltv
and hope to see them back on another
visit soon.
Consolidated District No. 2.
flip trnchrr of both schools
planned and carried nut one of tin
most complete surprise on the school
board, at their rrgulnr monthly meet
ing Inst Monday evening, that ha
been known In the history of the dis
trict. Previously they had invited
the wives of tho members of th!
Hoard to meet nt the home of Super
intendent S. W. Skeltnn, during tho
evening, and nfter Hip business meet
ing with the teacher, und school mat
ter had been discussed prrtly thor
oughly with the teacher, and the
Hoard, thinking the teacher desired
to attrnd chinch service, the tench-
r were excused, mid Just about tho
time the Hoard got down to the reg
ular business of the meeting, and
they thought their wive and leacii-
i were In ilune h. who should wn k
tn on the Ismld but their wive un.l
tenrhrr, mid the surprise was rer
talnl) complete in every tesprct, and
there un nut n member on the board
who had nn) tdrn of the plans, in-
i.irmai iniks mnng rrhooi line nml
for the betterment of the school
weie mnde by neri one niesent. nnd
the meeting n mole like a good old-
nishioned rainii) iiuidun than the in
ml routine of mIiii.iI l.uar.1 meeting.!.
Itcirpslimrnl wile .-rived in several
iiursis, one ionise deserving nf
nis'inl mention wn In irk ire cienin
n tutors, I id. whitf mid blue, in hon
or of (ieorge Washington's birthday.
Ihii-o who were thi'iv weie Mi.
mil Mr. II. M. Spillmiin, Mr. nml
Mi. Frank Walker. Mr. and Mrs.
S. Mcliee. Mr. and Mrs. (i. A. Con-
ana). Supeiintendenl S. W. Skeltn'i
anil wife. Prof. Kohelt Jackson,
.li--o .Matilda Seikmnn. Cnrriit
Snell. Sybil Tihbels. Myitle Si.iork
und l-oiun Weiglitinnn. On tirrouut
of the high water nud had leads Mr.
and Mrs. .1. M. Wilson were tumble
to ntleud. nud it is i-nul there were
real liars in James Mmgan pip
brrmise he could lint he thole.
Tew mule naiiiil- and irhool ill-
reel urs vlslteil Hie rfhoiil last month
Imtli liiie and in Cottonwood, than
heretofoip. mid the Isintil nml learn-
rs hope to see inure pan lit take an
Intel est in the school und visit the
school more thi month. Come out
nnd visit the schools, folks, nud sec
ror yourselves what )our children a lis
doing; get acquainted with the teach-
r. they will lie glad to see you any
time.
ons i ol ng the weather conditions.
the nttemlutiep wn lery go.nl, and
with belter weather and lend wo
hope tn have this month n better at
tendance. Thoi-o who weie neither
nb-i'iil or turd) in Prof. Jackson'
lepntimeiii nt ( oltonwooil school
wen-: Claud Smith, ivln Seikmnn.
Willie Jnrkson, Willie Seikmnn and
Mos Smith; in Mis Matilda' do
paitment weiv: Mifdred McCulley,
Mllihiil Jucksou, Karl Smith, Ferril
Cieslinni, llluiich .McCulley, l!ex
(iiesham, Krma Smith and Dounlil
Dunriiu. In the lligelow schools. 1st
grade: Itoy Lmkins; '.'d grade, Kdith
Walker: d grade, Marian Mnler; 4tli,
."Hi ami (ith grade: Lelu Dnvi, (ieoi
giu lilnsey. (iinrgla Poynter, Lumo-it
O-hoine. Madison Overlay, llulnli
Wulkiir. Miilgaiet McKee, Katlieiim
Mcliee, Anna llut.-on. Om-hi A,l.ims.
Joe I'oynter. Daisy Hunt, (ilen Wut
ker. Miiud Davis, I'eiry Davis, (iev
tt nil,- Mnler, Kmily iliidgmon; 7th
gimle: Mary Overlay ami llessle
Hunt, nml in the Mb grade: Hulila
Smith, (ilen Wilson. Omre Hull.Mnry
iiiiiKie ami .-seine miliums.
Next month we hope to liuve a
llllger list of lhop who were ,iltl.
absent or tard). (J. A. C.
O. II. S. N'olis.
Till (1 I'kt tPtl lit fit I ll. IK
- F s- list KJIH'
mirthim toHultnl lit a victory for tb
I i MM.. tit.. I. s
iniiiir li'ltm, I in INK') rtcnoui lUlKKtl
Hall tt-um won 11 victory over tin
I I lilt t Sift Ml lit- II ......I t I.. it
I lit I"')' wcro v 1 1 pliaM( with tho
mint wan ixootl, alinoot inorr hprcta-
uxf iiiuii I'oiiui arnmmoiiat(M',
Mon HmtN air to bi i.rovhlnl for tlut
nt'Nt uninr.
It would bo tlilllcult to hay which
nf flin Innt.u .11.1 ti... I,... .
... .... khiiio iiif irrni U ut
t'nch member of tho team played hi
('.111 ui ine KilllH' WON. All pIVM'lU
hi Dtiniinreit It hiim nl tint ln.f .m...
I I Ps',t '
they had ever seen. The best uf feel
ing prevailed throughout the game.
The Cialg boy have a good temn.nikl
ployed themselves to be gentlemen In
every wuy, the kind we like to havo
voine in wregoil,
Tlie next gnino will lie Friday, Feb.
u.Y ni 7'Un ii... i,.,.., 'i-i.-
boy.wlll play the I'help, Mo.,' teui-i.
v. mn- nui nun iieip me noy wi tills
gnu e.
-Mi'ic runltuip rniuo this week fur
the rest room Mm. L. I. Mump,
-Mrs. He ii. I.ehuier nnd Mr. Ileili Mi-
lllllllllll IV, ll, til, l li.,t..l-,l..,.u 11-.
certulnly glad to get these finniih-
'"k"i linn inn use u lew more null
.mn tm ies.
Honip Again.
Doll Mril-i.ntt fl.,, nir,. 1. 1.. ..i
., ' . V -. UKl'llb 111
tlio Oregon Interuilmn railroad, wifo
und son, Mux, have returned front
a two Meet.-,,' t-io-nll.,., ...I.Inl. ,1
........ ,,....,,,, VI, iiii-y
spent nt Port Arthur, Texas, visit-
.....u.i is-iii-iau, i.nnriey, Aubrey and
I' rank Castle, whom lio reports a
prospering. As thi wn Don' first
Iny-oif since he becumo tho agent six
j ear ago, one can feel assured that
hn inniln Mm l.nf nr t ,
,-'7' l' mw nine, unil
comes back home greatly refreshed.
Phillip K. Hurst, who has been
making his homo for some timo In
Marshrlehl, Webster County, this
state, has returned, and will, ror tho
present, make Ids home east of Ore-
il0"' iARoute.,.2. Welcome bock to
the old home, rhillip.
