THE BARE
DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 293.
JiAHHK, VKKMONT. Fill DAY, FKUlUJAltY 2.5, 191G.
riUCK, OXK CKXT.
VERDUN ATTACK
LESS FURIOUS,
PARIS REPORTS
Violence of the Assault by
the Germans on French
Stronghold Has Greatly
Diminished, but the Rea
son May Be Merely to Gain
Fresh Impetus
i
NEW BATTLE LINE
NEARER FORTRESS
At One Point, the Germans
Are Within 5Vi Miles of
Their Objective No At
tack Was Attempted by
Them Last Night, Says a
French Report
The French have been forced back itill
further on the defenses of Verdun In the
face of two great German drives for the
fortress, and the Teutons are now at one
point not more than five and one-half
m miles from Verdun. Last night the lines,
as established by the official bulletin, ran
to the rear of Samogneux and on a north
ward curving directly through Beaumont
to the east. To-day they stretch along
the crest of hills to the east of Champ-
neuville, five and one-half miles north of
Verdun, and behind the old lines at Beau
mont, showing the evacuation of the lat
ter village by the French.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 25. The
.German war office announced to-day
the capture of all the French posi
tions in the region north of Verdun
as far as the ridge of Loudemont,
just south of Beaumont. The num
1 ber of prisoners was increased by
7,000 to 10,000. The capture of the
' fortified villages and farms of
Champneuville, Cotellate, Marmont,
Beaumont, Cbambrettes and Ornes
was also announced.
"OUR DUTY IS CLEAV
WROTE PRES. WILSON
Paris, Feb. 25. The fighting north
of Verdun is diminishing in violence,
the war office announced to-day. No
attack by the Germans was attempt
ed last night.
PILES OF GERMAN DEAD.
Littered the Battlefield, Said Paris Re
port Last Night.
Paris, Feb. 25. North of Verdun the
I artillery duel continued, but there were
no infantry attacks, says the official
communication issued by the war office
last night. Between the Meuse and
Ornes several furious German attacks oc
curred, but the front was broken no
where. The text of the official communication
issued by the war office last night reads:
"In the region north of Verdun the
enemy continued to bombard with the
same intensity our frpnt from the Meuse law and the right,
No Nation Has the Right While War It
in Trogrets to Alter or Disregard
the Principles Agreed
Upon.
Washington, 1). C, Feb. 25.- President
WiUon, at the end of two days of agita
tion in Congress for some action warning
Americans olT armed merchant ships of
fho European belligerents, Uat night
wrote Senator Stone, chairman of the
Senate forriirn relations committee, that
he could not consent to any abridgement
of the rights of American citizen in any
respect.
"The honor and self-respect or uie nn
tion is involved," he said. "We covet
peace, and shall preserve it at any cost
but the loss of honor.
The president expressed hope that ex
plsnations of the declared Intentions of
the central European power 10 sin an
armed merchant ships without warning
would put a different aspect on a situa
tion which now seemed to present in
superable obstacles.
"We have had no reason to question
their irood faith or their fidelity to their
promisee in the past," he added, "and I
for one feel confident that we shall have
none in the future."
The letter was in answer to one writ
en late yesterday by Senator Stone out
lining the situation existing at the cap-
itol, where since Wednesday morning
persistent demands had been mnde for
some action which might leasen the pos
sibility of war between the United States
and Germany. The letter follows:
The President's Letter.
"My Pear Senator:
"I verv warmly appreciate your kind
and frank letter of to-day and feel that
it calls for an equally frank reply.
"You are right in assuming that J
shall do everything in my power to keep
the United States out of war. I think
the country will feel no uneasiness about
my course in that respect. Through
many anxious months I have striven for
that object, amidst difficulties more man
ifold than can have been apparent upon
the surface; and so far I have succeeded.
I do not doubt that I shall continue to
succeed. The course which the central
Kuropean powers have announced their
intention of following in the future with
regard to undersea warfare seems for the
moment to threaten insuperable ob
stacles, but its apparent meaning is so
manifestly inconsistent with explicit as
suranees recently given us bv those pow
ers with regard to their treatment of
merchant vessels on the high seas that I
must believe that explanation's will pres
ently ensue which will put a different
aspect upon it. We have had no reason
to question their good faith or their fidel
ity to their promises in the past, and 1
for one, feel confident that we shall have
none in the future
"But in anv event, our dutv is clear.
Notation, no group of nations has the
right while war is in progress to alter or
disregard the principles which all nations
have agreed upon in mitigation of the
horrors and sufferings of war; and if the
clear rights of American citizens should
ever unhappily be abridged or denied by
any such action, we should, it seems to
me, have in honor no choice as to what
our own course should be.
"For mv own part I cannot consent to
any abridgement of the rights of Amer
ican citizens in anv respect. The honor
and self-respect of the nation is involved.
W e covet peace, and shall preserve it at
any cost but the lose of honor. To for
bid our people to exercise their rights
for fear we might be called upon to vin
dicate them would be a deep humiliation
indeed. It would be an implicit, all but
an explicit, acquiescence in the violation
of the rights of mankind everywhere and
of whatever nation or allegiance. It
would be a deliberate abdication of our
hitherto proud position as ; spokesmen
even amidst the turmojl of war for the
It would make every
GERMANY
IS SILENT
Secretary Lansing Reports
That No Word Has
Been Received
SEEK TO RECOVER PROPERTY.
WILSON STILL FIRM
AGAINST WARNING
But Is Told That the House
Would Pass Resolution
Two to One
Washington, I). C, Feb. 25. As Secre
tary of State Lansing went to the cab'
inet meeting to day he said that abso
lutely nothing has been received from
Germany.
up to south of Fromezey. The artillery j thing this government has attempted
activity slackened a little betwen Mai
nncourt and the left bank of the Meuse.
No infantry action has occurred as yet
in this region.
"Between the right bank of the Meuse
and Ornes the enemy has shown the samo
ferocity as on the preceding day and
multiplied his furious attacks, leaving
V. oh the ground piles of dead, without hav
ing succeeded in breaking our front.
"On both wings we have withdrawn
our lines, one part behind Samogneux,
the other to the south of Ornes. Our ar
tillery has replied without respite to the
artillery of the enemy."
SCHOONER BLOWN UP.
Two Men Known to Be Dead and Third
is Missing.
Boston, Feb. 25. The fishing schooner
and everything that it has achieved dur
ing this terriblo struggle of nations
meaningless and futile.
"It is important to reflect that if in
this instance we "allowed expediency to
take the place of. principle, the door
would inevitably be opened to still fur
ther concessions. Once accept a single
abatement of right and many other hu
miliations would certainly follow, and
the whole fine fabric of international law
might crumble under our hands piece by
piece. What we aro contending for In
this matter is of the very essence of the
things that have made America a sover
eign nation. She cannot yield them with
out conceding her own impotency as a
nation and making virtual surrender of
her independent position among the na
tions of the world.
"I am speaking, my dear senator, in
Washington, P. C, Feb. 25. President
Wilson reiterated his opposition to any
action in Congress warning Americans off
armed ships, in a conference with Speak
er Clark, Majority Leader Kitchin and
Chairman Flood of the House foreign re
lations committee and they, in turn, told
the president that such a resolution
would pass the House two to' one.
The president wss unshaken in bis po
sition that Congress should take no ac
tion embarrassing to his contention thst
the rights of Americans on the seas must
be upheld at any cost and he repeated
what he had written last night to Sena
tor. Stone. The House leaders went
away, telling the president that nothing
would lie done to-day, but they ventured
no predictions for the future. They ad
mitted that the situation is serious and
they could not yet tell how far the sen
timent In Congress would be swayed by
the publication of the president's views
in his letter to Senator Stone.
Washington, P. C, Feb. 25. "I think
the chances are that Germany will post
pone her threatened performance until
April 1 or at least until the middle of
March," said Speaker Clark to-day, re
garding the proposed sinking of armed
liners, after conference with President
Wilson. "There, is a rumor to that ef
fect," he said, "and the postponement
would give us more time."
Speaker Clark told President Wilson
that if the resolution warning, such as
the president opposes, were forced to a
vote in the House now it would pass by
a majority of two to one.
Administrator of An Estate Suet in Rut
land County.
Huthtnd, Feb. 25. A suit In chancery
ha been brought in Rutland county
court in which the orator, James Cora
stock of Castleton, administrator of th
estate of Ann Lvncli, seeks to have a deed
from Mr, Lynch to William Minogue
and his wife set aside, claiming that the
deed was obtained while Mrs. Lynch
in very poor health, the woman dying
within a few days after the conveyanr
was signed. Attorneys Thomas W, Molo
ney and John f5. Horsey are counsel for
the orator.
Tim case is brought against William
Minngue, Norah Minogue and their son
Joint William Minogue, in whose name
the property, which i located in the vil
lage of (astleton, now stand. 1 tie or
tor alleges in his pspers, tiled with Conn
ty (lerk H. A. Harman yesterday, ths
Mrs. Lynch was very ill and that she
had been in poor health for weeks prior
to .November 25, JIMS, when she deeded
to Mr. and Mrs. Minogue the piece of
property which i worth $1,000. This wss
given uH pay for taking earn of Mrs,
Lynch, who died within a week.
1 he orator claims that Mrs. Lynch
was nat in fit mental condition to trans
act business and that the convevance
stopped Mrs. Agnes M. Hanley of Fair
Haven from presenting a bill of $350 for
care of Mrs. l ynch, in her lifetime. The
property deeded to Mr. and Mrs. Mm
ogue was later deeded to their son, who
it is claimed, is a minor.
LLEGED SWINDLER
ARRESTED ON YACHT
STANDS BY PRESIDENT.
His
Senator Lodge Is In Accord with
Views on Submarine Issue.
Washington, 1). C Feb. 25. -Senator
Lodge, the ranking Republican member
of the foreign relations committee, de
clared in a statement to-dav that he was
in full accord with President Wilson's
views on the submarine issue, as ex
pressed in his letter to Senator Stone
and that he would stand by the presi
dent.
Man Who Answers Description of J. Grant
Lyman Taken at St. Petersburg,
Fla. Had Much Cash
with Him.
Tampa, Fla., Feb. 25. A man answer
ing the description of J. Grant Lyman,
wanted in New York for alleged defalca
tions of more than $J00.0OO, was arrest
ed late yesterday on yacht at St. Pet
ersburg. Ha. He declined to answer
questions as to his identitv.
The man was said to have with him
on the Yacht several trunks and suit
cases containing an elaborate wardrobe,
$14.9flo in cash and a certified check for
$5,064 payable to the bearer and drawn
on the "Manhattan comnanv of New
York." There were several endorsements
on the check, police said, the last one be
ing the signature "John H. Putnam and
company. I his was the name of an
alleged fraudulent concern organized by
Lyman in New lork. '
The yacht is said to have been pur
chased in Tampa last Saturday from two
men whose names were given as "Smith"
and as "Olsen" and who police say re
cently brought the vessel here from Chi
cago. .;
NO LOSS OF LIFE
IN SEA CRASH
Liner Cretan Struck Steam
er During Fog off of
Cape Hatteras
PASSENGERS TAKEN
TO A PASSING SHIP
Disabled Liner Is Being Con
voyed to Norfolk,
Va.
Norfolk, Va., Feb. 25. The Merchant
t Miners' liner Cretan from Philadelphia
collided with the steamer Dorothy in the
fog early this morning 14 miles off Cape
Hatteras and is being convoyed to port
by the Dorothy, according to a wireless
message. Twenty-eight passengers were
removed from the Cretan to the Dorothy.
Further report said that the damages to
the Cretan were slight and that there
was no loss of life on either the Cretan
or the Porothy.
GROUNDED STEAMER
NOT DAMAGED
The Juniata Was Floated After Accident
in Vineyard Sound But Can Not
Go to Port Because of
Fog.
Vineyard Haven, Mass., Feb. 25. The
steamer Juniata of the Merchant and
Miners' line, which grounded in Vineyard
sound Wednesday, was floated to-day
pparently undamaged. A part of the
argo has been lightered. Because of the
fog the steamer could not continue her
oyage to Boston and anchored.
HELD ANNUAL JOLLIFICATION.
Bane Aerie of Eagles the Hosts at Pleas-
ant Party.
Sixty couple were royally entertained
in the Knights of Columbus hall on
North MViin street last night, the occa
sion being the annual banquet and dance
of Bsrre aerie No. 1,573. Fraternal Order
of Eagles. A substantial Italian dinner,
served at 8 o'clock, was the main feature
of the Kagles' yearly jollification, Cov
ers were laid for 125 people and every
chair at the table was occupied. Mrs.
D. Mlla had charge of the culinary
service and she was ably assisted by a
nunilier of young women. The menu in
cluded a number of rare Italian delicacies
in addition to the staple pieces de resist
ance, and as a whole the novelty of a
well turned Italian dinner was the sub
ject of much favorable comment from
the diners.
Afterdinner exercises were brief but
each number was warinlv received. Pres
ident David McDonald of Barre aerie act
ed as chairman and after his cordial ad
dress of welcome there was an impromp
tu musical program. . Orchestral over
tures were numerous and several finely
rendered vocal solos were loudly ap
plauded. Among those who sang were:
Ihoinaa McDonald, Alexander Massut
and James Hustings. Dancing was en
joyed until after midnight, the merry
making being interrupted onlv bv a brief
intermission at 10:80 o'clock, when dain
ty refreshments were served.
The committee in charge of the affair
consisted of the following Eagles: David
McDonald, Guy Oltolini, Paul Bianchi,
Louis Cslcagni, James Hastings, V. Tren-
tinl, Richard Attridge and Charles A.
Lundgren.
MAY VOTE ON
STATE ISSUES
If Men Have Become of Ago
After April 1, 1915, Says
Barre Board
NO ACTION TAKEN
ON DELINQUENTS
That Will rAne Up at Meet
ing NexVeek Changes
Ma.n the Checklist
DEATH OF RAILROAD WORKER.
PROPOSE A POWER PLANT.
New York, Feb. 25. Toyman disap
peared from New York two weeks ago
after exposure of the stock swindling
operations of the firm of John H. Put
nam A Co., of which he was the head.
He is alleged to have obtained more than
$.111,000 by illegal use of the mails.
The fugitive, formerlv a member of
the New York Stock Exchange, forfeited
$20,000 bail and fled from Los Angeles '000,000, which is
Cel.. shout two vears ago, after his con
viction and sentence, to 15 months' im
prisonment there for conducting a land
Central Power Co. Given Hearing at Mid-
dlebury.
Middlebury, Feb. 25. The public serv
ice commission held a public meeting here
esterdav in the Addison county court
house and the following commissioners
were present: William R. Warner of
ergennea, Robert C. Bacon of Brattle
boro and Walter A. Dutton of Hard-
ick. The hearing was held for the pur
pose of taking testimony relative to the
petition of the 1'entral Power eompany
of .Vermont,- eonmsting of vrianer" If.
Thompson, Benjamin A. Sumner, Dean
K. Lulie, H. J. M. Jones of Montpeliex,
Alexander Gordon of Barre, Frank si.
Stuart and Albert H. Stuart of Newton,
Mass., for the purpose of getting per
mission to construct and maintain an
electric power plant at East Middlebury
on the Middlebury river and its tributar
ies. The company has a capital of $1.-
dmded into 10,000
William M. Grant Had Been 111 a Long
Time.
William M. Grant of Pearl street, yard
master for the Central Vermont railroad
in this city forj the past four years,
passed away at the City hospital soon
after noon to-day, the end following a
prolonged illness. Mr. Grant was re
moved to the hospital sir weeks ago. He
was critically ill from the outset, al
though a fortnight ago his condition
showed material improvement and hopes
of his recovery were entertained. The
body was removed this afternoon to the
undertaking establishment of Perry &
Noonan on Depot square and arrange
ments for the funeral will be made later.
So far as can be learned. .Mr. Grant is
without relatives in this vicinity. With
the exception of a sister, whose where
about is unknown, it is thought that he
is without relatives in America. He was
born in Hammersmith, London, England,
39 years ago and came to America as a
young man. In Providence, R. I., he
started to learn the railroading business
and for some years he made his home in
Rhode Island. Several years ago he
came to Barre and began work in the
Central Vermont freight yard as a brake
man. Afterward he was promoted to
the position of yard master, an appoint-
I ment which amply justified his retention.
mx. Vtrani was a mcmoer or tne Drotner-
hood of railroad trainmen and also be
longed to the Eagles. Members of the
railroad brotherhood are looking after
the funeral arrangements.
shares at $100.
The petitioners were represented by
Attorneys fe. M. Harvey and F. B. Ihom
BRITISH MAKE GAIN.
Sprang a Mine and Then Occupied the
Crater.
London, Feb. 25. The British official
statement issued last night on the cam
paign in the western zone reads:
"We sprang a mine opposite Hulluch
last night and occupied the crater. To
day an artillery duel about Bac St. Maur
ended In our favor.
"Our artillery bombarded hostile
trenches near Frelinghein, on the Ypres
Comines canal, and east of Boesinghe
with success."
TO HAVE STATE TICKET.
Mary C.'sant'os with 23 men on board i d,epP 0,em.nit' with"; hff. with a
was blown up in the harbor by an explo
sion of gasolene yesterday.
Harry Fisher and Prescott Bent were
killed and 10 others were sent to hospi
tals for treatment. Joseph Lewis is un
accounted for and is believed to have
ylieen drowned. The schooner sank soon
afterward.
Outward bound for her home port.
Provincetown, the schooner had stopped
off the fish pier in South Boston to take
tin a stock of gasolene from an oil barge.
Several cans had been taken aboard
when the explosion shattered the for
ward part of the craft, tearing through
the gallery in which part of the crew
were at supper. Some of those seated
there were blown through the house into
the water.
TO DEMAND RELEASE
If Central Power Subjects Were Seized
on the High Seas.
Washington, I). C, Feb. 25. The
Inited States to-ilay instructed Ambas
sador Page at London to make inquiries
at the Rritish foreign office regarding the
removal of 31 Germans, Austrian and
Turks from the American steamship
rhina in Asiatic waters and to demand
the release of the prisoners if they were
arrested on the high seas as indicated.
clear consciousness of the high respon
sibilities of my office, and as your sin
cere and devoted friend. If we should
unhappily differ, we shall differ as
friends; but where issues so momentous
as those are involved, we must, just be
cause we are friends, speak our minds
without reservation.
"Faithfullv vours,
""Woodrow Wilson."
The president wrote his letter during
the afternoon, shutting himself up in
his study while congressional leaders
vainly attempted to get him on the tele
phone to tell him ot developments at the
capitol, and to arrange for the call of
the House leaders. He began to write
after telephone conferences with cabinet
members and other clnee advisers. His
decision was to end all speculation over
what the position of the government was.
and to let Congress and the country
know that the administration believed
the I nited States could do nothing but
stand behind the right of the citizens to
the freedom of the seas.
Maine Progressives Are Preparing, Says
H. P. Gardner.
Houlton, Me., Feb. 25. "The Progres
sive party of Maine will have a complete
state ticket," declared Hon. Halbcrt P.
Gardner, Progressive state committee
man and candidate for governor in 1014,
at a meeting of Progressives here last
night.
"The question often is asked 'Why put
up a state ticket!"' Mr. Gardnersaid.
"and Progressive voters are often told
that the majority of the rank and tile of
tne uepuuncan party in .Maine agrees
with us on state issues. We hold that
while we may think alike on minor state
issues, in the national fight the Progres
sives want the so-called Progressive -Republicans
to give some indication that
they will act as they say they think.
"The bulk of the Progressives will not
join with the Republicans on state mat
ters when that action binds them to fol
low the Republican nstionsl organizations."
fraud; He went to Europe, but returned las of Montpelier and Ira H. LaFleur of
and perpetrated a mail fraud in Boston, Middlebury, the Battell estate by James
according to the postoffice authorities. B. Donoway and Robert W. McCuen of
VOTE TO BUY PARSONAGE.
He opened an office here and engaged in
business under the name of Putnam on
Dec. 15 last. .
FIRE DRILL EFFECTIVE.
ROBBERS USED DYNAMITE.
After Holding Up a Train East of Seattle.
Seattle, Wa-h., Feb. 2.V-The Northern
Pacific's eastbound North Coast Limited
train was held up yesterday a mile and
Three Hundred Children Marched Out at
East Weymouth, Mass.
East Weymouth, Mas., Feb. 25 Three
hundred pupils in the James Humphrey
school marched out of the building yes-
terdav afternoon while a fire raged in
the basement. Smoke was discovered
corning through the lower floor and the
pupils, marshaled by Head Master Joseph
Crowell. left the building in fire drill or-
ler and without injury. The building
was badly damaged.
The building was a two-storv brick
structure with the interior sheathed in
wood.
The students had legun their after
noon lessons, when a boy on the lower
floor saw smoke coming through a crack
in the floor beside his seat. Instead of
shouting "fire," he notified the teacher,
who at once rang the alarm for the fire
drill.
Many of the students took their places
in line with the idea that it was a cus
tomary drill.
The entire student body left the build
ing in a minute and a half. The teachers
said that it was the best fire drill the
school had ever had. Some of the pupils
lost their wraps and most of the school j
property wss either burned or damaged.
I he interior of the building was badly
damaged, the floor on one side falling
into the basement. The loss was esti
mated at 115,000.
Middlebury and the Barre Power com
pany by W. W. Stickney of Ludlow.
There was also a large array of legal
talent representing a number of differ
ent interests. The bearing will run into
another day, as there are many witnesses
yet to be examined. In the absence of
Attorney-General H. G. Barber, the
state's interest was looked after by
State's Attorney Allen R, Sturtevsnt of
Middlebury.
CALL WITT A "COMER."
Goddard Seminary Athlete Pleases Con
nie Mack.
Philadelphia, Feb. 25. Connie Mack is
enthusiastic over the future of his new
baseliall machine. His latest find is I-a w
ton Witt, a schoolboy who played last
season in Skowhegan, Me. Witt will go
to the training camp with the Mackmen
next month, and the job of filling Baker s
place will rest between him and Charley
Pick, recently obtained from Richmond.
Witt is a "find" of Harry Davis. Both
Connie and Davis- heard that a young
wonder was a student at Goddard sem
inary, Barre, Vt., and was playing in a
Maine league. Davis saw the youth, and
after looking him over was sure he was
a comer.
Sam Crane of the Richmond team is
the lad upon whom Connie looks to de
velop into a whale of a shortstop.
OPPOSES PLEDGED DELEGATES.
SPED BY SIGNALS
Was Evidence Introduced in the Mil ford
Wreck Inquiry.
New Haven. Conn.. Feb. 25. Testi
monv that extra iascnger train No. 5.
on the New York, New Haven Hart-
Gov. McCall Says that Times and Senti-
Ment Change.
New Bedford. Mass., Feb. 23. Gover
nor McCall told the diners at the Bris
tol County Republicans' banquet last
night that he believed the present to lie
no time for pledging a delegation from
this state to the Chicago convention.
"The man who seems a strong candi
date to-day." he added, "may be weak
in dune. The times are so kaleidoscopic
each dsy a new international crisis is
likelv to come up, and I doubt if we
Barre Baptists Secure John L. Wallace's
House on Franklin. Street.
Parishioners of the First Baptist
church met last evening and voted to
purchase the residence of John L. Wal
lace at 27 Franklin street for a parson
age. A deed conveying the property to
the church will be signed to-morrow and
it is understood that possession will be
given sometime in the latter part of
March. Through the transaction the
church acquires a dwelling that is ad
mirably suited to the uses of a parson
age. There is a garage on the premises.
which is included in the sale.
Rev. W. A. Davison of Burlington, field
secretary of the Vermont state Baptist
convention, was present last evening and
after business connected with the par
sonage had been consummated, the ques
tion of securing a pastor to succeed Rev.
G. H. Holt was discussed. It is thought
that a favorable reply will be received
at once from Rev. Bert J. Lehigh of
Oswego, N. Y., to whom a call was ex
tended some weeks ago. The candidate
from Oswego was anxious to have the
use of a parsonage should he accept the
Barre call and it is believed that he will
see fit to act favorably when he learns
that a suitable residence has been se
cured for him here.
FORMER NEWSPAPER EDITOR.
ST. J0HNSBURY GIRL INJURED.
Arm
c : i I ... . i i
signal set at caution against it Tues- ..... . A,
, t, u 1 1 v j - . at this time to commend the convention
day, just before it ploughed into the . , . ,. ,.. .. , .
- k-ir i:... o:i . ..ll,l 1 1 ...... : t.l '" " mui-.
" i.. " . ; 1 if V I """. " -M-- ... -"- Whatever our personal wish mav be it
Seattle. The robWr. uncoupled the bag- for- - re.I,,ng ,n 10 deaths. .. 1 g.ven mpMy . Mpir,tioll.
gage and mad cars snd compelled the ; je-terdsy at the joint hearing of the in- j ( , , jsh of M,rrh hut ,h, , ,
tmntrtnm nrmve Ti nam r, tmrk " Trriar mmm-rrv null m i..nn ih- . . . '
track into the mountain forest. itat puMie utilities commission, t hie of
1 A short time after the h iri-a tr? mail the mitnees aid this running Pact itr-
cars and engine dijipered pac-engers in ! nals "a common oivurrrnr-e." Kur
GERMAN SHIPS SEIZED.
rortnga! Took Eight Vessels at St. Vin
cent, Cape Verde.
St. Vincent, Cape Verde Islands. Feb.
2-V Fight tterman steamships lying in
the harbor were taken in charge Tester
'y hr oflrf-ials of the lortngiie gov-rrcmect.
Nellie Cushman, Aged 5, Thrust
Into Milk Separator.
St. .lohnsbury, Feb. 25.-NeIlie rush- !the cars left standing on the tra.k hear ! thrr testimony wss to the effet that a
the five-year-old daughter of Mr. an explosion. It is supposed the robbers third man in toe engine rah of the
extra train with f.nginerr . K. Hirtis
jment of dune is demanded."
DFATH OF C C RINEHART.
James H. Livingston, Founder of Ben
nington Banner, is Dead.
Bennington, Feb. 25. .Tames H. Living
ston, who established the Bennington
Banner in LSS3 and edited the paper for
nearly 20 years, died late yesterday aft
wss a native of Cold' Springs. N. Y, and
ernoon at his home in this village. He
in his 60th year.
He began learning the printers' trade
when 13 vears of age and in lSt3 went
to New Y'ork, where be was employed as
a compositor and later as reporter on
morning dailies.
In HO he founded the Weekly Stand
ard at Hoosick Falls, N". Y., and ten years
later the Banner in Bennington.
He sold the latter paper in JW2 mid
had since been engaged in the job print
ing business.
Nintty names were added to the check
list at the first meeting of the board of
civil authority last evening and t0
changes were made at the request of per
sons who have changed their residences,
transferring from one ward to another,
since the March elections of 1!)15. Fif
teen members of the board were present
and work on the check-list continued un
til near midnight, although a good deal
of the time was taken up with examin
ing and swearing in voters who are to
exercise the franchise for the first time
on the 7th of March. F. G. Howland pre
sided over the deliberations of the board.
A definite stand on the question of
permitting persons who reached the vot
ing ago after April 1, 1915, to vote on
state issues was taken when the board
decided to allow such voters to ballot on
the prohibition ami primary referendums.
Those who were not of age until April 1,
1015, manifestly could not have been
listed for taxation last year and the fact
that they are not taxpayers does not,
according to the action of the Barre
board, bar them from participation in
the vote on state issues.
No action has been taken by the local
board on the question of participation in
the ballot by voters who are delinquent
taxpayers: but it is expected that the
question will come up next week when
the names of 30 delinquent taxpayers on
the checklist will be considered. Attor
ney General II. G. Barber has given the
opinion that those who failed to pay
their taxes prior to Feb. 15 are not eli
gible to vote on those two referendums.
The influx of voters seeking for thsj
first time the right to use the freeman's
franchise was considerably larger last
evening than usual at the first meeting
of the board. Fully a half of the 90 who
appeared are citizens who have been nat
uralized since the last election, and the
proportion may be even larger. 5Iany
were young men who have attained their
majority since the last March meeting.
Much work was accomplished in the way
of ridding the check-lists of delinquents
and much remains to be done in- this di
rection. Only six changes were necessary in re
vising the list of officers who are to serve
in t lie various wards on election day.
Death and removals account for a ma- .
jority of the changes, although in two
instances ward officers who served in
1915 were disqualified because they are
candidates this year. The assignments
are given below.
ard 1. Clerk, George N. Tilden; in
spectors. Harry McNeil, George F. Howe,
(i. I. Becklev: ballot clerks, W. J. Clapp,
John Paul.D. R. Stewart. Charles 01-
liver; assistants, K, J. Owens, O. E. Phil-brick.
Ward 2 (lerk. Charles A. Lundgren:
inspectors, B. P. White. H. W. Clark,
Robert Inglis; ballot clerks, H. A. Rugg,
R. S. Currier, John Jones, John Rowley;
assistants, James Brown, A. 0. Fay.
Ward 3 Clerk. F. W. Bancroft: in
spectors, C. C. Yarney, G. H. Hoyt, J. B.
Sanguinetti; ballot clerks, William Me-
Donald. Joseph M. Nelson, Atlo Mariani,
Alex. W. "lurray; assistants, F. T. Cut
ler and T.'H. Cave. jr.
Ward 4 Clerk, Dirncan McMillan, jr.;
inspectors, James Moruzzi, B. B, Jackson,
James Glass; ballot clerks, G. L. Greg
oire, Thomas C. Carson, AVilliam Sker
ritt, John Rae; assistants. J. K. Ander
son, Peter Thorn.
Ward 5 (lerk. S. L. Cardi: inspectors,
Frank K. Comolli, W. S. Reillv. O.. J.
Howes; ballot clerks. Jasper Bb.zozero,
James Walker, Celeste Bianchi, Angelo
Delia liernardini; assistants, Angelo Dot
tigi. James Hastings.
Ward ft Clerk, A. E. Campbell; in
spectors, Frank Biernieyer, E. T. Mower,
diaries Cav; Imllot clerks, K. R. Davis,
Battista Galli, Carl C. Rollins, C. W.
Camp; assistants, L. C. Beck, George
Cooper.
Two more opportunities remain for
the voters to get their names on the
check-lists. There is reason to believe
that a goodly number of recently nat
uralized citizens contemplate visiting the
board next week and there are always
those who, having transferred to another
ward during the year, delay registration
until the last moment. The next meet
ing of the board will be held in the court
room at city hall on the evening of
Wednesday, March I. and on the follow
ing evening the last meeting of the
hoard will be held. After that the re
vised check -lists will be turned oer to
the printer.
HAD SEVERAL SPEAKERS
Well Known Railroad Man of Wood mile
Dead.
man
ami .urs. r n. Mimmin, of Kat M. idvnamite.l the exrrets r-r.
Johnsbury. was badly injure.! yesterday j Automobiles filled with deputy sher
while playing with a milk separator. She ills were ilipat-hed from Seattle."
and her sister were turning the machine! The flagman, who reported the hold np
when their mother interfere. and warned from ( ovmirtnn. said the bsn i tt fired
them against the danger. Tb little girl several shot at him as be ran d'n t
i - "i'"' "ni u' i i n- aiarm. wi i.r rrwjwi i- ni iivt iit- iiri.ni, rinwever. re naif un-ierp-ne an operation for a
inrun her right arm into the gearing, uninjured. The flagman ran hs.-k to ; it was Ifti'f I. there bave been com - Jpendioti lt Saturday. Ilia death ra
I ae arm w ra.iy rniT.-t snd crta tmmgton as ocn a he I-rned Ue rob-' rhnH of Ce fn.Inre of the tuiul n ! or.t ! k to this rnmmiiittr arJ nrrr. TT
THREE UNDER ARREST.
In Connection with the Killing of A. C.
Gibson.
White River Junction, Feb. 25. Ray
mond Trainor of this place has been re-
Swanton Board of Trade Gave Banquet gained to defend Charles Leighton and
Last Evening j'1' "" Walter and Newell, of Sharon.
iwlm were arr.t-tcl yesterday after the
Swanton, Feb. 25. Th fifth annual ',l,.ath of A. ('. .ibon at Sharon early
banquet of the Swanton l?ard of Trade j ,iHV ,fter he had I -ecu shot in the
at the Grand Avenue hotel lat evening ; thigh and beaten over the head. The
taxed the seating capacity of the dining nien were taken to county jail at Wood
ronm and was one of the U-st yet held. !t-k Ut nipht.
Among the speakers were Justice George j The eons claim that there was a fight.
M. Powers of the 'ernuit supreme jn the timtier M Iwtneen .ilin and his
court. President Reexes of N'orwh h uni- : nicn and the !.-ii;hton in which fist
and Fireman Miimnis, which is contrary j iVoodsville. N. H.. Feb. 25. Carroll C. ; versify. Warren R. .Vrtin of St. Aiimn. !ere freely u-d. It i claimed thst on
to the rule. iKinshart, assistant superintendent of the, K. B. tlsik. vic president of the Rohin of the I-tghton Imi. fired the rifle ser-
fHher testimony was that the signals I White Mountain division of the Boston ! Ho.d Ammunition company, and Rev.'ersl times eimplv to frighten the l,ihon
n the stretch of tra.k involved in theand Msine railroad, die,! yeeterday at j Father Aijbm of the Congregational for-c. a'ter which, it i -la:med. the
iiter were in g'od working mndition Young's hor.ital. Center Haverhill, where rlmr. h was t'tmater. D. ; Ktirn-an 'elder lii-hton fr-d the weapon, the bul-
;.;l-t Ptrktr! i.ibon in the lelt th-gh. It
res- r i lwl:re.i bv pl i-ia?i, w '.. exsm-
m t-fiarge of t'e leu nirt I ml t'" b-niv. trai t te mans dVxt.t re
A. B. Aodfun and 'i!f 'rom the elut'.ilng rth-r t trt-as
ere emir' ii - h,j-i-i . i r ur
p-!i prei.lerit of the Hoard of Trade
me J We'-ter se-rtrv and I Irwin tr
iwHte rr.,en near trie inn. It is thought tr prpoe, and was un l ie to gn e de- tern to work t-roperlr, t .' axeragwg to the buine world in which he wv-d. were T. M. Tohin
-" vc vatvu. iiu i l rviKfrj, SDOMl a werfc. to bis 1ST let kifitas.
George LoiecLe,
the bullet wounL
