itrraif
-TWBNTT.FOURTH TEAR.
CARLSBAD. NEW MEXICO. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY M, 111.
NUMBER It.
1
DING JAIL DEL VERY
IN DEMINO IS FOLLOWED BY
DESPERATE FIGHT IN WHICH
SHERIFF IS KILLED. FIVE
OUTLAWS MAKE ESCAPE;
ONE IS DEAD. ONE CAPTUR-
ED AND OTHERS GET TO
HILLS.
I
Deming. N. M.. Feb. 20. Fiv prli-
oner this morning mad their escape but on of th men when I Hepped
from th city jail after making City ' rom behind th hilltop. 11 was just
Marshal Talor a prisoner, taking a popping a rise. I fired twice at him
number of guns and ammunition fromiBmj he fell.
the arsenal and securing a Ford auto- .w found afterward that h hud
mobile fmm a local garage. They been shot in th loir. On of th ban-
fled In th direction of Rincón and
were soon followed by a posse headed
by Sheriff U U. Stephens.
The prisoner who escaped wer
Francisco Aeosta, th ringleader, who
Is charged with murder; J. O. Starr,
and C. Schmidt, alleged burglars; W.
I)ashley. alleged forger and Jo Cran
aon. vagrant.
Early this morning City Marshal
Tabor enterad th jail and Schmidt
asked him to be allowed th privilege
of going to th corridor. Th door
was unlocked and h entered th hall-
way. Schmidt soon returned to th about two hours after th fight and
door of hi cell and asked th officer has been coming in a steady stream
to unlock it so h could enter. A avr sine."
Tabor atawUd to unlock th door Fifty Doming citlxens, Including
Schmidt pinned hi hands behind him detachment of Company I, N. M. N.
and th other prisoner hurried to hia O., under th command of Lieut,
assistance, Th officer was thrown to Clyde Earl Ely, ar searching. Large
th floor and later locked in the cell, patrol ar out over th country trail
Hi revolver waa taken aa was $6 In Ing th fleeing bandits,
currency. All trains ar being met by th
The fiv man than unlocked th call state troops at Rincón and tharough-
of th jail and Invited th other pris- y searched. Peace officer in every
oner to accompany them, but this direction have been notified,
they declined to do. Hurrying to th Sheriff Felipe Lucero of Dona Ana
national guard arsenal nearby the five county is due to arrive from La
men secured guna and ammunition as Cruce at 11:10 p. m., with a posse
well aa a umber of revolver. Th patrol will be kept out all night
Car Secured by Cunning Baa. and in the morning asystematic
One of the men then called the Park search will be begun,
garage and asked the proprietor to The wounded bandit' wound war
end a machine to the jail fully pro- dressed at Rincón shortly after th
vided with gasoline and tires for a battle and he was taken to Las Cruces
"P.
rency. Th prisoner stated the sher
iff' wanted the car to take a sick pris
oner to Fay wood Springs. The ruse
worked.
D. O. Snodgrass, on of th propria.
tor oi tne garage, a rove a car to tne
Jail and was at one admitted. H
waa at once covered with revolver
held by the five men and locked in a
cell with Tabor. The telephone wires
were cut and the five men entered the
automobile.
Jt ia said Cranson did not want to
enter the machine, but a he waa th
only man in th party who could op-
erate car he was told that if he did
not consent to drive them he would be
hoc
About an hour later Mexican wo-
man whose husband was a prisoner in
th jail called. Tabor and Snodgrasa
told her to notify the sheriff of th
escape of th prisoners. She Imnied-
lately called at the sheriff' house and
a posa waa quickly formed and th
chase started. Automobile were s
cured and a number of machine in
which members of the Deming com
pany of national guard deputies and LUKE DANNELI.Y AND HIS CAR.
civilian rod took up tha pursuit.
Throughout th day and late in th
veninr other oartiea left in machinas
to aid ia running down tha bandits.
Among th prisoner in th jail wa
General Roque Gome, who wa ar-
rested last Tuesday on a federal war-
rant charging consolracv with tha lata
General Victoriano Huerta to launch
an armed expedition against the Re-
public of Mexico. General Gomes wa
released by the prisoner, but refused
to accompany them. Ha wa taken to
El Paso later. I
Rinmn. NT M P.k 9n n.uki
W. Stephens, sheriff of Luna county,
nd Joe Cranson, who wa rvlng a
Jail sentence for vgracy, ar dead;
ueputy Bnena -Buck" Sevier I pain-
fully but not seriously wounded, and
J. 0. Starr, awaiting trial for bur-
glary, I in th Dona Ana county Jail
wité a bullet in his shoulder a th
tesult of a desperate battle fought a
mile and a half west of here shortly ,or the Chino Copper Company,
after noon today. The battle follow- There r bout 1350 men mP'yd
ed a daring jail delivery in Deming th "'. Th' min', f t,?ni
early thia morning in which five pri. lU ten mllM "N" "urley whll tha
oner escaped and made a dash for concentrator I at Hualey. Copper Is
liberty in n automobile. .a up to 28 1-2 cent per pound now and
Marshal Tabor, of Deming, one of to go to 80 cent before It
the posse pursuing the fugitives, give toP- Tht mplny re expecting
the following account of the battle notnr r,M m wages soon. They got
which resulted In the death of Ste- zr,e' riM on Hy ln Jnury nd
phens and Cranson and th wouding cPP" was only 22 cents then,
of Sevier and Starr: Luk and his family will go back
"W ran onto th bandit, Just oyer Carlsbad arly in th summer and
t small but ateep hill about a mil Claude will stop there for a few days,
northwest of Rincón. We aw that wnile th fnlk, wl" t0 clovi t0
th road parrowed to a more trail " Wi" Dannelly's folk and then to
nd ware doubtful of galling the car Ballinger, Texas, and visit while
ver the hill. then to Robert, Texas, and back thru
"I went up to the top of th hill CHbd and on to Hurley to resume
nd saw td bandit beside their ca. hil d"ties. Claude will come back
which wa stalled, eating lunch. on tr,n Mr- Dannelly know th
Thsy opened fire on me. I stopped untry ,0 waH c"n eily mak
long enough to call the rest of the . tha lriP ov,r 1,nd in ni er
poese and thon returned the fire. Just ! Yours truly,
how many shots were exchanged be- A SUBSCRIER.
fore my three companions came up, I i o
á!J,Íi.!l!lWn " Brtor "nd,EDDY COUNT YHOSPITAL NEWS,
first. Sheriff D. B. Stephens next and
Jt?l j0hf KUy Mrm" J' 8tokM- of Longton, who
irey came running and like in underwent serious operation Fab-
r.V3 .,.UrpiU5d-r ílu "eM oi ' be able to leave7or her home
bandits. I dont believe thsy were In few day.
more than Ua pace from where w Mrs. S. Eastwood, of Elida, who was
u wti. .... "Pratd on the 12, is recovering rap-
" 'Throw up jour hands, you,' yelled ly. v
"He fired en shot and WL Sheriff able to lesv the 1st of the week.
SUphins aerer fired j,t. fC. Mr. J. Marsh, of Arte.ll, lift the
dead with Ua hand half raised .to.hojpiUl February Uto.
hont. Demit Sheriff Kail arrived
,nd .hot the boy who had been forced
to dri th, ear for th. bandit. 1
.tapped behind th hill to reload. Th
fu(,tlv war already In full flight.
Sheriff Stephen cam up In luch a
way that he wM but a fw feet from
th man that ihot Sevier. The bandit
stepped over and secured Stephens'
Mnd u..a i until he fled. 1 law
dits mad off in the general direction
of El Paso. Th other two fled to
ward Grama, a station northeast of
Rincón. 1 followed th two with
Wayne Estes. We took a car to bring
buck the body of Sheriff Stephens
and Buck Sevier. W were startled
on our return to And him sitting up
with the blood streaming over his
face. 11 was not badly injured, hav
ing only a slight scalp wuond."
Marshal Tabor wired Ueming Tor
assistance upon reaching Rincón after
th battle. Help began to arrive
by Deputy Sheriff Kelly and Buck!
Sevier. . j
Sheriff Stephen waa not gun
man in any sense to which odium
miirht attach, accordinar to Cant- Fred
Kornoff, former head of New Mexico
mounted poltc. who was in Albu-I
querqu yesterday. Th Luna county '
sheriff was a fearless man and had:
a high sense of d,uty, said Captain
Fornoff.
Las Cruces, N. M., Feb. 21. C
Schmidt, on of the five prisoner who
broke from th Luna county jail in
Iteming yesterday morning, and who,
after a fight with officers near Rincón
n whlch Sheriff Dwight B. Stephen
, killed, ascaned to the hills, waa
captured early this morning fourteen
miles northwest of Us Cruces and
wa lodged in jail at this point,
Only two of th outlaws are now
at larira. Francisco Aeosta and W.
Dashley, and ofAirmla express confi-
dance that they will soon be cuptured.
Hurley. N. M.. 2-21-16.
Editor Carlsbad Current,
Mr. M. U Dunne'ly, one of Carls
had' pioneers w now resides at
Hurley, New Mex came into this
place, last Saturday night from El
I'aso in a 1V1B five passenger Over
lend touring car. He drove it up from
the Pass City. He had very good luch
until he got nearly home and ran over
cow and had to back off of her, and
Jumped up and ran away. But
not until ah had smashed both light
out ana jarrea tne raaiator up a in-
tie. Luk says he's rode the range on
Spe.ni"h ponies after wild cattle all
"T Etern New Mxico and west
T,x"- "nd of cou" th,t w"
"""" """T w,rf
then there would ver b ,uch ' thln,t
horseless carriage,
, uke nd Umúy now mrl?
"'" mp few mile from Sil-
v,r r,ty- H and th y r work
SCHOOL CHILDREN OF
OTIS ENTERTAINED.
Th parent-teachers association en-1
Urtained Saturday evening all th'
Children of th Utls school who had
attained sufficient horn credit 00
who wer invited to a Washington
social at th school house. Most of th
children and good many chaperonea
were present. Game wer played too
numerous to mention. Then Mr. Eg-
erton, a recent refuge from Mexico,
won Kuvm i iiw!u,
i most interesting tain on conditions
in Mexico illustrated with photos, af-
ter which he gav several humorous
readings, wnicn sept tna nous in an
uproar. Ice cream and cak war
erved. Everybody went home declar.
in gthey had spent most njoyabl
evening.
The following pupils attained the
highest number of credits: Roswell
Force, Charles Ellsworth, Elisa Gran
di, Lillian Greenwood, and in the pri
mary department: Emmett Tehbetls,
Hubert Urandi, Donie and Froni
Ijinkford.
ANDERSON SAN ATARI UM
J. E. Jones, the engineer on the
i Tansill dam, entered yesterday for
medical treatment.
Mrs. H. R. Hesing. of Amarillo. Tex.
and the girl baby of Mr. and Mrs. Earl
Kendall, of Malaga, ar at th Sana-
I I at it aw ftxm AtiA Imiis
tarium for operations,
, Mr. Campbell of Lakewood and
i Mrs. Sam Akin, ar convalescing rap
' Idly from operations,
Mr, Fowler, who spent last winter
at th Sanatarium, haa returned for
, th balance of th season.
Christian Co.. INSURANCE.
CARLSBAD'S
CARLSBAD TO CELEBRATE JULY 'want to com to Carlsbad, "the Beau
I THIRD, OURTH AND FlFTH.Itiful" and it i predicted that for th
I ' three day festivities there will be in
hnthuslssllc Meeting of Citisens and
Husmea Men. Committee Unani-
mously Chosen and Plana for Big
Celebration Bagan.
At the mas meeting of business
men held in the Court House Mondavi
evening, a large and enthusiastic
crowd was present and greaat interest
rding
th of
waa shown by all present rega
the matter of holding a big Fourth
July picnic and barliecue beginning on
the morning of the third of July and
closing on the night of the fifth.
The representative business and
professional elements of Carlsbad
were present and all were of the opin-1
' ;on that a big celebration could sue-
cessfullv be had. The unanimous ex-
pression of the meeting was that
err citixen should put his shoulder to
the wheel nri h.ln r.rl.b.H nnlt n
the biggest and beat entertainment
j which has ever been scheduled in
the Pecos Valley. Everybody will'
KEEP THE CHAPS OFF WITH
SNOWATILLA
THE BEST EVER
All the other, of course, but w
recommend th abov
EDDY DRUG STORE
PENSLAR
DEATH CLAIMS AN chosen from the personal friend of
OLD LAND MARK, the family in Lakewood. Rev. J. T.
, - , . ... . Redman, of the Methodist church of
J. T. Truitt, late year of Ukewood. this place offered a prayer and Corn
but a one time land mark of this vi- puny "H" having charge of the body,
cinity, was called to his long home for burial, as Mr. Truitt requested
early lust Saturday morning. He before he died. The pall bearer war
wa 72 yaers of ag January 22nd. W. U McDonuld, J. W. Cunningham,
Mr. Truitt had been losing trength W. T. Cook. J. W. Dauron. Arthur
sine before Christmas, having a spell
oi lugnppe, wnicn at nis age lert nia
heart weak. Ha was the only son of
John and Mary Truitt, of Ohio, born
there in 1H44. Ha leaves companion
tha faithful wife, who has shared his
joys and sorrows for 42 years, and
eight children, four daughters and four
sons, to mourn his loss: Ed. Truitt,
of Grass Range, Wyoming; Misses
lr Kll. n,l 1'irri. Trmtl. Mr. Al
Khelnboldt. of Ohio; Fred Truitt, of
Fnrt KLnektnn T....- n.nr. .nñuiu
Truitt. of Lakewood. Six of the ehll- "ironette to serve with the commlss
dren were at the funeral. Mr. Truitt ,ry dPrtmerit At the bluff there
came to Carlsbad about twenty-five
years ago, and at one time ran res-
taurant where the U. 8. meat mar-
ket is now located. He Is an old time
personal friend of many Carlsbad clU
hen who Join with th sorrowing
family in the loss of husband and
father. The casket containing tha
bwly was brought to Carlsbad by auto I
som of th family and friends eom-
ing by auto and others on the 2:45
train. Interment was made ta City I
cemetery. Th pall bearers were
RED MEN CLOSE A SUCCESS
FUL MEETING AT DEMING.
Demtr-e-, N. M., Feb. 2ft. The
twelfth annual Oreat Sun council of
Red Men of New Mexico closed a
successful two day' convention her
this afternoon with uniformed drill
and parade.
Grand officer wer elected fol-
jows: Jesse Turner, Santa Rita, grand
sachem; O. L. Dompsey, Mogollón,
great senior sagamore; R. II. Hughes,
i leming, great junior sagamore; w
h. Mullane, Carlsbad; great prophet;
Thomas K. Tlloveld. llurlev. recorder;
W. Ü. Woerner, Knowles, keeper of
wampum; Pan llatchaway. Iteming,
great sunat; A. M. I'ontinus. Kerning,
great guard; II. I), (ireen of Iteming.
member of judicial council; I.. L.
Godchaux, Iteming, great representa-
tive.
Thirty lodges were represented.
-o
Connnlly-liara Fight a Draw.
Johnnie
Connolly is home
from
Santa Fe
where he finished
with
honors In a ten round bout with Mike m"? lne water lust April not on-! some twenty-one years ago. He spent
Baca, the Santa Fe contender for the lv the wKon road but also the Santa the flrt year at Seven Rivers. Since
lightweight championship of New re track were badly cut to piece, then he has been in Carlsbad. About
Mexico on Monduy night. The fight Another spillway will be built by the five year he wasa clerk in the gro
was declared a draw by the referee f"vernment in the near ftuuro about ; eery that J. M. Purdue conducted in
after ten round of clean aggressive half wv between the dum across the the old ton building now occupied
fighting. The local favorite say he : river itself and the embankment of by the post office. Since then he ha
was treated fairly and squarely In I the w"t 'de. What this new spill . been a fixture in the county aaeora
the flirhl and has nothino- to offer u
I - . .
an excuse for his not winning the de -
cisión except that the higher altitude
of th capítol city affected hia wind
to such an extent as to be noticeable
from the first time he ascended the
stairway at his hotel. Roswell New.
Christian ft C INSURANCE.
CELEBRATION.
attendance from four to five thousand
people. An extensive publicity cam-
paign will be carried on and th main
things to be looked after between now
and that time will b to provide whole
some entertainment, a general good
time and comfortable and pleasant
quarters for th people when they get
here. In view or the well known ho
pitality of C..sbad people, together i
.with the ample hotel and restaurant
' accommodation it is estimated that
Carlsbad can conveniently take car
'.of all who choose to avail themselves
of the good time afforded by the big
celebration
Major E. P. Bujac presided over the
meeting Moitdav nio-ht and a commit-
IV
tee composed of Wm. Jones, as crair-
ev-lman; Y. R. Allen and Jo Johns, was
1 unanimously choen to act in ronjune-'
linn with If. C ., Th. enmmit. i
lee will later appoint other commit
tees to help in the celebrations, such
as reception, decoration, etc.
Rowlund and F. M. Fisher.
BOY SCOUT HIKE.
The Scouts celebrated Washington's
birthday with taking hike. The
objective point was the Esparanxa
Bluff, and the start was made at
nine o'clock in the morning. There
was procession through town with
twenty boys in line. Laddie Lewis
twenty DOys In II
b!,rinK colors and Jamea Weipton
wllh his handsome burro and stylish
7 "7" Wn" r,v,r no
mliwtlon of Indian relics. Games
'n1 unen iea-
tur WM bv no " overlooked. A
'"U ,n"k '?d bob eat brok ,n
wilh ,om jclUment and the troop
eturned th th evening, tired but
nPPy
E. L. Perry and wife returned to
Artesia Wednesday after enjoying a
very pleasant visit with neighbors
and f rienda.
A NEW POS
ACTUAL WORK REC.INS ON THE
BUILDING OF NEW ROAD FROM
LAKE WOOD TO CARLSBAD.
I-skewood, New Mexico. Feb. 21.
ciuai work is ready to begin on
1 th road between Lake wood and
'Carlsbad. State Engineer Jumes A.
renen ras unuer consideration the
matter or route, whether to build on
ln" "lue ' tne I'ecos river or
''""te a new read on the west side.
"onn this "tiled Mr. French
"' he is ready to begin work.
The old road erases the Pecos
river below the McMillan reservoir
of the Carlsbad project. The old
spillway from the reservoir is on the
wei,t "irte- New channel have been
i cut there from time to time and dur.
f will do to the wagon road and
l"'" lr"l tn oanta re railway is,
iL. il i . i i
an open question.
At any rate the crossing of the tral committee, and as such has ren
J'eco river at McMillan will bo cost-'dered the party elllcient service,
ly, under present conditions. In timel Mr. Harvey will make a good pot
tha government will build the third ! master. He attends strictly to busi
reservoir at Rocky and this will ! ness, looks after details carefully, and
back water up to McMillan when is always ready to accommodate th
fairly well filled. When thia is public. He finds an office well organ
built even th Santa F railway will ixed with a force of clerks well train
have to relocate its track. ed. There will be no changes in the
But then it is not only the question ofiice force,
of cost that enters into the location! The retiring postmaster, John T.
of th Lakewood-Curtsbad road. The Bolton, is an old-timer in the Peco
highway is for use and the route that Valley, having lived here for forty
will serve the people best will be se- five years. He came to Carlsbad, then
levied by Mr. r rench. He and W. M. called Eddy, in 1KHI. For more than
Atkinson, City Manager of Roswell, ! seventeen years Mr. Bolton war in the
pent some lime ner last ween look-
ing over tha ground and conferring
with tha people here and at Carlsbad.
A .M. Hove.
COMPANY "B" NEWS.
Business is good at the Armorv on
regular drill nights these duvs:
lnu"',,m t high pitch, and the
comP"y ' busy as if preparing
c.....,r,,lv, ji KviimiK reauy to t-iass oinee witn receipts mor than
K to war. I double. In ll07 th star route to the
There was a fairly good attendance plains in eastern Eddy county served
at drill last Wednesday night, and the . three post offices twice a week. To
men went through the manual of arms duv a dailv mail serviee in
'"nd "l. ,cno0' of "'iu,1 "nd of com-1
I ; i
H-'y veterans
. mon new members were
J'".1. " """" Samuel
?r.mery "en'u"' th
OloraUO, ami wno hold
many medals for marakmanship, both
a t . .
wiui ruia ana pistol.
aergeaai Konert w. nnluy ha boon
appointed First Sergeant, vice Surgt.
Craddork Rule, who is ul present out
of th stat. Other appointment of
Mii-iuiiiiiiiioinu oiiiei-rs win oe an-
! nounced at tha ext weekly dri
t aptain iMan expects to enter an
all-company H team to compete again
: si the "all-star" team that won the
luuie.s m tne recent competition ag
uinsl Roswell, when the Roswell teams
come heie for a return mutch, lie
will luke u squad to the range next
Sunday morning for a try-out for the
Company II team.
The mutch will probably lie held on
March Itlth, if this date will suit the
Roswellitea, a the men will be busy
preparing for inspection up to the
15th of March, and therefore, cannot
et an earlier date.
Besides the regular drill each Wed
nesuey nignt. mere will he held spec-1
ai anus o notaren tn and run, un-'
day afternoons. These drills being!
held on Sunday as this is the only ,
day the men can be gotten together
in the da ytime.
Capt. Dean wishes again to impress
on tha public tha importance of hold
ing no special function on Wednes
day ight that will in any way infer
iere witn attendance or the men at
drill, and to ask that this night be.
lert open o the men may attend the
tegular weekly drill without fail.
- n-
CLIMATE OF CARI.SRAD VERY
PLEASING TO MINNESOTA VIS
ITOR AT CITY BEAUTIFUL.
Carlsbad, N. M., Feb. 21. "The cli
mate of the Pecos Valley is delight
ful", says Mrs. Thomus l Uurbour of
Minneapolis, Minn. She has been
a month th guest of hr sister. Mrs.
A. J. Muxzy, who prevailed unon her
to try th Peco Valley climate for
this winter. Her husband, Mr. Har
bour is the manager of the Minne
apolis house of E. C. Atkin Saw
company, on of th largest saw
makers In th world. Mr. Barbour
will remain for soma week until th
word of th northern winter I over, ufter tha tomato crop is gathered.
A.. M. Hove. During the idle months there is plen-
e ty of time to look after the cows.
MISS DEAN RETURNS TO DALLAS The labor question was a serious
on last year during the picking and
Mis Ruth Dean will lesv tonight packing. Every man, wonia and
for Dalla, Texas, after an extended ihild was pressed into service. They
visit In this city with her brother ere worrying about tha labor ques-
Claude Dean, and family. Roawell lin for this season with the inrrea.
New, Wednesday. ed acreage and the larger pnek that
Miss Ruth lieun, who ha been the WH he made. Last year thirty five
guest of her brother, Wm. W. Dean, cur were packed, whi'e this year
and family, of Carlsbad, for the past u" J"'k muy pus the fifty mark.
two weeks, returned to Roswell Sat- A. M. liove.
erday. While here Miss Dean en-
daarad herself to many of Carlsbad Clyde P tnard and wife, also her
young people, and enjoyed many auto sister, t ',ue bedside they were
rides through th Valley and to th called some week ago, retornad Frt
mountaln. day from Oklahoma. The sister had
, pneumonia and Is Just now feelb;
"The Clue", Peoples Theatre tonight able to be op.
T
MASTER
POSTOFFICE NOW HELD BY A
DEMOCRAT. FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN TWENTY YEARS.
CARLSBAD IS SERVED BY A
JEFFERSON! AN.
Th Retiring Officer Has Lived In th
rrrnn Valley the Considerable
lime of Fori jr. live Year.
Yesterday morning the faithful, who
are ninny, in Eddy county, hud their
mail handed them by a democratic
postmaster, the llrst time in a scor
of years. John H. Harvey wears th
title of postmaster of Carlsbad, John
T. Bolton retiring postmaster, beinir
cheeked out lute lust night
i Mr. Ilurvev ranii from Tm M
ofllee. and for eleven veurs has ..rv.4
as deputy assessor. lie has also
( served as the clerk of the count v ceii. '
j employ of Joyce-I'ruit company, being
tne manager or the grocery depart
ment of that concern. In December
11107, Mr. Bolton took over the post
office and was re-appointed four year
later, having served a little over eight
year.
When Mr. Bolton took charge of tk)
en-lnost office lute in l't07 It . iki
I class office, with about an annual re
ceipt of $.000. Today it is a second
teen office on this mute. In those-
( ruriy um.vn ii wkh juí1 m RRtlUl Ot
mail, while today the sack for th
plain fill a big auto. The route U
Queen then delivered mail once a
week, while now it ha a twiee-a-
week service.
The lust democrutic postmaster ia
I ( arlsbad wa W. II. Slaughter, who
I was appointed by President Cleveland.
I Mr. Slaughter some time ufter the
'close of his term, moved from the val-
icy. ue was oiten a visitor and had a
host of friend. Mr. Slaughter died
about three year ago.
Mr. I'olton has not decided on his
future line of action. He has led a
long uno ousy nie anu is entitled to
brief vueution before starting out
new work. Mr. Ilolton talks eter
tainingly ubout the early duys. He
ha seen thousands of burTi.lo come
down from the plains lowulcr in the
I'ecos river. A fur us any one knows,
there were no herds of buffalo on the
west Hide of the I'ecos river, they
'icing strictly plains unimuls. Mr.
Ilolton has seen long trains of ox
.iruwn wagons come, full ufter full,
from the Itio Crude vullev to hunt
the buffalo for its meat, tallow and
hide.
Mr. Bolton retires from the office
well satisfied with the growth and
hopes that the next eight year will
ee a still greater advance. The post
olllce i to a great extent an index of
the development of the territory it
serve.
o
THE LAKEWOOD TOMATO.
The
tomato ha won a iiuma all
A. C. Croxicr, the si-octury
right.
returned home a short time ago from.
a trip around the circle to take odrcrs
for this esason's puck. He did not
finish the trip us the orders were so
heavy that he. thought beet to com
home and confer with the grower
as towbut they could do to furnihh
the tomatoes. The acreage will b
increased this year by the old '
experienced growers.
Others will
ry tumutoes for the first tune.
In connection with tomato grow
ing which is a rush business dining
the picking ad packing season,
dairying will be sturted. This fits in
well enough if the farmers will huve
their cow come fresh lute in the fall
