T,.,.j rU,
o7
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population - 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro.
dating District in the
State of Arizona.
AND flORENCI LEADER
VOLUME XVII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916.
NUMBER 40.
Era
HAYDEN S BILL
FOR FOREST
Following Recommendations- of Secre
tary of Agriculture Measure Intro
duced in House Which Includes
Construction of Apache Forest
Highway.
ARIZONA SENATORS HELPING
BiH Now in the Committee on Agri
culture Plans To Reimburse Na
tional . Treasury From Proceeds of
Forest Products Sales.
The movement launched by the
Greenlee County Chamber of Com
merce, in conjunction with the Cham
ber of Commerce of Apache county,
and the Boards of Supervisors of the
two counties, to secure an advance
of money from the National Treasury
to' be'-Csed under the -direction of. the.
Secretary of Agriculture, . for the
Building of highways within national
forests, is destined to be ultimately
crowned with success. ,
The Supervisors of both Apache
and Greenlee counties have sent reso
lutions to our representatives ' in
portance of such a highway, from a
commercial standpoint, built through
the Apache National. Forests and con
necting the towns of . Springervflle
end Clifton, affording a- ready market
in the Clifton-Morenci district for
the products of the Forest. 1
In acknowledging the receipt of the
resolutions from, toe Board of Super
visors' of Greenlee county, which
resolution pledges the County of
Greenlee to build that portion of the
Apache Forest Highway,' south of the
Forest boundary line, and lying . in
Greenlee county, A. L. Terry has re
ceived answers from Senators Ash
arst and Smith and Representatives
Hayden, enclosing letters from the
Secretary of Agriculture on this sub
ject. Following, up the matter Con
gressman ' Hayden has introduced a
bill providing, for national aid for the
immediate construction of forest
roads.'. The - correspondence with
Congressman Hayden, together with
a copy of the 'Bill, is as follwos:
Washington, Feb. 9, 1916.
Mr. A. L. Terry, Clerk,
Board of Supervisors,
Clifton, Arizona. ;
My dear Mr. Terry:
On receipt of the Resolution passed
by the Board of Supervisors of Green
lee County relative to the construc
tion of a highway through the Apache
National Forest, I immediately took
up the matter with the Department
of Agriculture and inclose, herewith,
a reply that I have just received from
Secretary Houston. The Secretary is
of the opinion that the only way that
a road project of this magnitude can
be handled is by the enactment of
general legislation which will provide
for an advance of funds- to be repaid,
by the- receipts from the Forests. I
understand that the Department does
not favor special bills and it is for
this reason that I have introduced the
Inclosed bill which, is in line jrith the
policy of the Department. I shall be
very glad to keep you advised as to
the progress of this legislation.
With kindest regards, I am,
Yours very truly,
CARL HAYDEN.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 29, 1916
Hon. Carl Hayden,
House of Representatives'
.Dear Mr. Hayden:
I am - in receipt of your letter of
January 18, concerning s resolution
submitted by the Board of Supervisors
of Greenlee County, Arizona, regard
ing the construction of a road through
the Apache National Forest. There
is no doubt that there is need for
roads across the forest areas and In
dian reservations within the center
of the State. There is at the pres
ent time scarcely any means of direct
communication from the valley of
the Little Colorado river in the vicin
ity of Holbrook southerly or westerly
to such towns as Clifton, Globe and
Thoenix.
A road from the northern to the
southern boundary of .the Apache Na
tional Forest would probably be
about eighty miles in length, and in
country of the character of that with
in the Apache Forest would probably
cost not less than $250,000. The
present appropriations available for
road construction for the entire State
of Arizona amount to about $25,000 a
year. Even if Congress were to enact
the bill H. R. 161, introduced by Mr.
Mondell, providing for the expendi
ture of 25 per centum of the receipts
from National Forests for road and
" trail construction, the amount made
available would be inadequate to meet
the needs in this case.
It seems clear that there is need for
legislation, general in character,
which will provide a means through
which roads such as that above refer
red "to could be built under "direction
of the Department. This need can
best be met by an advance of funds
for the construction of roads of this
character. The form that such legis
lation might take would be to make
available an annual fund sufficiently
large for the purpose, to be advanced
for road construction under the direc
tion of the Secretary of Agriculture,
either within or partly within the
National Forests, when needed for
use and development of resources up
on which local communities are de
pendent, in counties that desire to
take advantage of this form of legis
lation and in which the National For
ests contain resources from which
a sufficient amount will be received
in future to make possible reimburse
ment to the Government by withhold
ing a portion of the 25 per cent of
the receipts, now given to the coun
ties, rn each case such plan of co
operation should be agreed upon as
will be equitable to both the counties
and the Government.
In the event that Congress should
enact such legislation as would make
it possible to carry out a general plan
of co-operation in the construction
'and maintenance of roads which are
needed for development and use of
sections of the country within and
adjacent to the National Forests,
the request of Greenlee County, Ari
zona, to share in its benefits would
receive consideration in connection
with the Natonal Forest road pro
jects .
Very truly yours,
D. F. HOUSTON,
Secretary.
Hayden' Bill
, H. R. 11068
j In The House of Representatives.
jf eDruary ,
Mr. Hayden introduced the follow
ing bill; which was referred to the
Committee on ' Agriculture and order
ed to be printed.
A BILL
To provide for the advancement of
funds to survey, construct, and
maintain roads and trails within any
I State or the Territory of Alaska
within which national forests are
located.
Be it enacted by the Senate and
House of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America in Congress as
sembled, That there is hereby ap
propriated and made available until
expended, out of any money in the
National Treasury , not otherwise ap
propriated, the sum of $1,000,000, for
the fiscal year ending June thirtieth
nineteen hundred and seventeen, and
each fiscal year thereafter up to and
including the fiscal year ending June
thirtieth, nineteen hundred and
twenty-six, in all $10,000,000, to be
'available until expended under the
supervision of the Secretary of Agri
. culture, upon request from the proper
j officers of the State, Territory, or
! county, for the survey, construction,
jand maintenance of roads and trails,
within, or only partly within, the' na
tional forests, when necessary for the
use and development of resources
upon which communities within and
adjacent to the national forests are
dependent. Provided, That the State,
Territory, or county shall enter into
a co-operative agreement with the Sec
retary of Agriculture for the survey,
construction, and maintenance of such
roads or trails upon a basis equitable
to both the State, Territory, or coun
ty, and the United States: Provided
further, That the aggregate expendi
tures in any State, Territory, or cctan
ty shall not exced ten per centum of
the value, as determined by the Sec
retary of Agriculture, of the timber
and forage resources which are or will
be available for income upon the
national forest lands within the res
pective county or counties wherein
the roads or trails will be construct
ed, and the . Secretary of Agriculture
shall make annual report to Congress
of the amounts expended hereunder.
Section 2. That immediately upon
the execution of any cooperative agree
ment hereunder the Secretary of Agri
culture shall notify the Secretary of
the Treasury of the amount to be ex
pended within any State, Territory, or
county thereunder, and beginning
with the next fiscal year and each
fiscal year thereafter the Secretary
of the Treasury shall pay to the
State or Territory within which the
road or trail is to be constructed only
ten per centum of the gross receipts
from the national forests in the res
pective county or counties in which
the said roads or trails are construct
ed until advised by the Secretary of
Agriculture that the remaining fifteen
per centum of the receipts to which
suob State or Territory would other
wise be entitled under the Act of
May twenty-third, nineteen hundred
and eight (Thirty-fifth Statutes at
I Large, pages t'.vo hundred and fifty-
one and two hundred and sixty), is
sufficient to reimburse the United
States for expenditures made under
all contracts in pursuance hereof for
the construction and maintenance of
roads and trails within such State
or Territory, county or counties, and
thereafter the reduction in the per
centum paid to -the State or Territory
for the benefit of such county or coun
ties shall no longer apply.
Firemen's Ball
Everything is in readiness for the
Firemen's ball at the Princess Thea
tre Saturday evening, February 26th.
Prior to the grand march a number of
musical selections will be rendered
both vocal and instrumental and Gen
eral Manager Carmichael, of the A.
C. Company, Ltd., will address the
liremen. The program starts prompt
ly at 8 p. m. There will be no pic
ture show. Delicious refreshments
have been ordered for the occasion
and the hall elaborately decorated.
A most pleasant evening is assured
for the guests of the Firemen.
E QLNEY 15
CANDIDATE FOR
Authentic Announcement Is Made at
the Capital That' Former Resident
of Clifton Will Enter the Democra
tic Primaries For the Nomination
George A. Olney has announced his
candidacy for governor of the state
of Arizona, subject to the approval
of the democratic primary.
He will go before the people on a
broad platform of complete sympathy
with the administration of Wood row
Wilson, of absolute economy and re
trenchment in state politics and of
complete justice and equality for all
In the eyes of the administration.
George A. Olney was born in Texas
and came to Arizona in 1881, set
tling in Graham county. His first
public office was as under sheriff
of the county and he later Served
two terms as sheriff. The county at
that time took in what is now known
as Greenlee county and Sheriff Olney
was known throughout the north
eastern part of the state as a just
and utterly fearless officer.
He was a member of the territorial
council in .1898 and later was ap
pointed a member of the territorial
board of equalization by Gov. Brodie.,
His resignation from the board was
dramatic and was brought about by
the refusal of the other members to
assess the Southern Pacific railroad
at the same figures that were as
sessed in both California and New
Mexico. The Arizona lines were as
sessed at $6000 per mile while those
of the states to the east and west
were assessed at $15,000 per mile.
Olney demanded that the Arizona as
sessment be placed at the same fig
ure and upon the refusal of the board
to make the raise he rsigned.
He was later appointed to fill the
unexpired term of Eugene Carruthers
as supervisor of Graham county in
1905 and was elected supervisor at
the end of the term and served to
1909. With his advice John J.
Birdno, at that time assessor of the
county, raised the taxes on the min
ing companies to a sum representing
their approximate value and the case
was appealed to the supreme court
of the United States after the su
preme court of the state had refused
to permit the increose, the case com
ing before them on n appeal' from
4he order of the territorial board of
equalization. . ,
Olney went to Phoenix seven years
ago . and has been known as one of
the active and successful business
men of the state. He still retains
large interests in Graham county and
is known as one of the big cattlemen
of the Gila valley. He has supplied
the farmers of that valley with
blooded stock, operated a creamery
and ice plant at Safford and done
much to raise the quality of the
herds of the state.
In politics he has ever been a con
sistent democrat, ' taking a leading
part in the activities of the party
and acting as chairman of the state
commitee in 1912.
; The authentic information coming
trom the capital that Hon. IcOVKe
I A ..Olney will be n candidate in the
democratic primaries for the nomina
Jtion as Governor uf Arizona witl be
particularly rifiaung information to a
j large host of pe:sonal friends in
I this section of the state, residents cf
Greenlee and Graham counties who
I have known George Clney sii o r e
'was a young uau. They knjv - ir
'as a citi7en and as an official whose
' record Is without a biemmish and
whose honesty, fearlessness and fair
ness is above rri-roarb.
RAY CONSOLIDATED
Ray Consolidated reports for the
fourth, quarter of 1915 a production of
17,755,656 pounds of copper, of which
17495,533 pounds was ' contained in
concentrates and 560,123 pounds in
ore shipped direct to the smelter.
An advance in wages and the disturb
ance of milling operations, due to the
work of alteration going on in the
plant, made the cost of its copper for
the quarter 9.625 cents, which was
considerably higher than it probably
will be hereafter. Net earnings for
the quarter were $1,807,983, and after
paying the interest on the bonds then
outstanding and a dividend of 50 per
cents on its stock the comanpy carried
$1,001,085 to surplus.
A UNIQUE DISCOVERY
PRESCOTT While on a scouting
expedition near Ft. Whipple, Captain
Garald Hoover, of the U. S. Army,
hsot a raven. As he stooped to pick
the dead bird from the ground he
noticed that it lay on a ledge of rocks
in which some free gold appeared. He
staked off a claim, and performed the
assessment work regularly. That was
35 years ago. Now his son, Jardin
(Hoover, a Nevada mining engineer,
is returning to the same spot, with a
small mill of three stamps, a con
centrating table and other equipment,
which will be installed on the proper
ty. The company known a'a the
Raven Development company, is head
ed by Col. Hoover, the original dis
coverer of the claim, who has just
completed another examination of the
property. -
GEDRG
GOVERNOR
CHRISTIAN
E
PRACTICE IS
DEFENDED
SGIENG
Member of Christian Science Com- ,tion of an amendment to the constitu
mittee cn Publication Writes Com-,tion making the president of the
munication Regarding Death of In- United States ineligible tore-election,
fant at Globe. and we pledge the candidate of this
convention to this principle."
In a recent issue of the Copper Era
was published, an account of the death
of an infant in Globe, the parents
relying solely on the practice of Chris
tian Science to effect a cure. . .
. The following communication hear
ing on' the subject is addressed to
the Editor of the Mesa Tribune:
Editor Mesa Daily Tribune,
r .
Dear Sir: My attention hcs been
called to a news article relative to the
death- of Phen D. Brouilette of Globe, jiwse statesmanlike, cautious ana con
Arizona, published in your issue of siderate safe-guarding of the welfare
February 8th. In this article special
stress was given to the fact that this
child received Christian Science treat-
ment and that his parents had refused
medical and surgical aid. The article,
which elves hut. n nortlon of the
facts 4n the case, is misleading, and
I do not -think the parents of the child
should be subjected to the bitter cen
sure directed at them. Had it ever
been established that medical and
surgical practice had become fixed
sciences, or were even the foremost
medical experts agreed as to the dlag- J Democrats of Arizona, and :". will re
nosis and treatment of diseases and j ceive a large Republican . . vote, be
the advisability of operations, or had ; cause of his having safe-guarded the
our national or state government ever
lent, their recognition and approval to
one. school of the treatment of dis
ease, to the exclusion of all others,
then , we might find more reason, for
blaming the parents in this case.
Christian Science, judged solely on
the. basis of the healing work accom
plished in thousands of cases where
ether means had failed. Is at least
entitled to as much respect as an i shown his love for Arizona by build
healing agent, as is material medicine, iing a residence in the Salt River val
Because of their own satisfactory ex- jley,' where he spends his winters,
perlence with Christian Science, Mr. I "We consider the vice-president al
and Mrs. Brouilette simply followed .most a citizen of Arizona, and I have
the promptings of their own best yet to find anyone within the bor-
' judgment and their conscience in se-
-curing Christian Science treatment ly support him for vice-president,
for their baby. ' The remarkable' "In the performance of .his duty as
growth of the Christian Science moye- presiding officer of the senate,he has
ment, and the fact that in "its ranks shown himself to be absolutely fair
are included thousands of cultured and exercised the functions of thatof
and influential men and women of fice in a thoroughly non-partisan man
high rank in statecraft, journalism, ner.-- .
art, law, business, etc., should give "1 have no doubt but that Presi
pause tov its critics1 and, at least, ex- dent Wilson and Thomas R. Marhsall
teno to its adherents "the benefit of M be unanimously nominated at the
the doubt." Saint Louis convention.
Our critics would do well to bear "I am making arrangements for re
in mind this statement from Dr. Rich- servations' for all Arizonans who will
ard J. Cabot, instructor in the Har
vard Medical school: "That Christian
Science has done, and is doing, a vast
deal of good, not only as a religion.
but as a health restorer and a protest
against the short-sighted naturalism
ortne ooctors, we are nrmiy convmc-, Beats for those attending as visitors
ed. Its affirmations are helpful, to). - . ,., ......
thousands."
In view of the great number of un- As a member of the national corn
successful operations and the high mittee, I have been enabled to come
mortality in chilc'an's diseases for ;In personal contact with the leaders
which the medical profession has , ' ... .
been so bitterly censured by its own f me aU of whom are men of
foremost authorities, why should not national importance, and as such I
one be justified in condemning the
parents of a child who dies nnder
medical treatment? However, Chris
tian Scientists are never found, con
demning or interfering with the de
sires and rights of those who may still
prefer material treatment. We simply
ask to be allowed to enjoy our con
stitutional privilege of seeking the aid
of the Great Physician "who healeth,
all thy diseases," Psalm 103, v 3.
' As the supreme court of the United
States held in "U. S. vs. Jhonson," 221
U. S. Reports 488, 498, that for the
government to "establish criteria
where opinions are far apart," as with
respect to the curative effects of med
icines would be "to distort the uses
of its constitutional power."
. Relative to the principle involved
in the parents' action in the Brouilette
case, Judge Clifford P. Smith says in
his standard work on "Christian
Science, Its Legal Status," page 54:
"It is well known that the mortality
o f children under medical treatment
is great, and parents who have found
a superior system will naturally em
ploy the system whose known results
Inspire them with ' the strongest hope.
Parents should not be expected nor
forced to disregard their own obser
vations, experience, and knowledge
and employ a system which they dis
trust a system which they may have
tried and found wanting."
Cordially yours,
GARTH W. CATE,
Christian Science Committee on Pub
lication of-Arizona.
CATTLE OUTPUT 500,000
PHOENIX Almost a half million
cattle were handled in Arizona during
the year 1915, according to figures
just made public by the live stock
sanitary board. Shipments from Ari
zona cto outside points for the year
totaled 264,891 head while interstate
shipments amounted .to 91,491. Cattle
slaughtered in the state during the
year numbered 58,491, making a total
of 415,096 head moved in a commer
cial way. Movements of hogs totaled
over 15,000 head, of which 5,692 were
exported. Over 5,000 horses and
mules were shipped to outside mar
kets during 1915.
ARIZONA TURNS TO LEADERS
WHO ARE SURE.
National Committeeman Reese M.
Ling, a short time ago addressed a
j letter of inquiry to the members of the
Democratic state committee, and
'among other things called the atten
tion of the committee to tre follow
ing plank adopted by the national con
vention at Baltimore in 1912: -
"We favor a single presidential
term, and to that end urge the adop-
Replies have been received from the
majority of the committee and from
all parte of the state, and with but
two exceptions, those received de
clared that, . . notwithstanding ' the
plank in the platform, they are in
favor of President Wilson for a sec-
jond term. , .
I There are many reasons given why
the St. Louis convention should not
jbe bound by this plank, the foremost
tone being that the president by his
or tne unitea states nas enaearea
j himself, not only to the party, but to
all of the people of the United States,
.regardless of party affiliations,
I Many of the letters refer to the
resignation 01 secretary 01 state
Bryan for resigning his port-folio at
a time when the -country was in a
grave situation, and unsparingly con
demned his action.
Said Mr. Ling:
"There is no question ' ' but' ' that
President Wilson is the choice of the
interests or tnis country ana prevent
ed us from becoming entangled in the
great European confliot, while at the
same time he has in a firm and dig
nified manner insisted upon proper
recognitpin of American rights.
"While there is no doubt about the
popularity of the president, there is
equally as great enthusiasm concern
ing Vice-President Marshal, who has
i ders of our state, who will not glad-
visit the convention at one of the
leading hotels in St. Louis, so ' that
those attending from this ' state will
all be placed in touch with' each
other, and shall endeavor to secure
1 section 01 me uaii.
.have greatly enjoyed the honor.
"While I do not feel like opposing
the claims of any ..Democrat " who has
rendered signal service for' the party,
I should greatly appreciate "the honor
of .again being selected -a member of
the national committee from Arizona"
SHERIFF TELLS HOW MUCH
BOOZE MAY BE BROUGHT IN
DOUGLAS Deputy Sheriff Chas. E
Cross last night received instructions
from Sheriff Harry C. Wheeler as to
the amount of liquor, that a person
would be allowed to bring into the
state at one time. This was placed
at a case of whiskey, a case of beer
and a gallon of wine. A greater
amount than this will subject one to
arrest.
Sheriff "Wheeler states that he real
izes that this is merely an arbitrary
ruling on his part.but as the supreme
court did not define the amount which
may be legally imported, there must
be some basis to work on.and he has
set these figures on his own re
sponsibility. PASSED BAD CHECKS
PRESCOTT Robert E. Ellison, be
lieved to be a paroled prisoner from
the state prison at Florence, has been
arrested here on a charge of passing
worthless checks. Complaint was
brought against Ellison by a number
of local merchants who were victims
of his operations.
the highest wages ever paid in the
district will prevail on a 26 cent cop
per market and there is every reason
to believe that the district is enter
ing upon the greatest era of prosper
ity every known, both for the producer
and the employee in which the busi
ness interests will share in proportion.
Tuesday evening at the Eagles' hall
the store clerks of the district were or
ganized and on Friday the electrical
workers were also organzed, charters
for same will arrive in a few days.
The following officers were elected
for the Clerk's local: Mr. Buffiing
ton, Morenci, President; C. E. Col
lins, Clifton, Clerk; Al Wasem, Clif
ton, treasurer. A finance committee
and trustees were also elected.
E SCALE
IS SETTLED IN
E
Committee of Fifteen Emlpoyees Un
animously Agree to Accept New
Wage Scale Proposed for Clifton
Morenci District.
MASS MEETINGSTO BE HELD
Highest Wage Ever Paid In the Dis
trict Will Result Good Feeling
Prevails on Both Sides.
I With good will and co-operation
j manifested on both sides, the con
I ference between the mine managers
of this district, and a committee of
fifteen employees, representing all ,
; crafts in- the district, practically
.came to an end on Friday afternoon
of this week, when the committee in
: conference unanimously agreed to ac-
cept the new wage scale which' had
been under discussion for . several
days. .......
The mine managers and the com
mittee of employees began their ses
sions on the 24th Inst. From ' the
first day of the session it was ap
parent to members of it, cmniittee
that the purpose of the managers, in
accordance' with their statement . is
sued on January th, was - to make
conditions as satisfactory as possible
to their employees, -end it was evi
dent that there would be no serious '
deadlock to mar the conference. That
there should be no discrimination in
the district was quickly disposed of,
as was the question of a minimum
wage for common labor which was
nxea at z.uu per aay or eight nours.
After the. first two days the confer-
ence settled down to an analysis of
the wage scale to apply In this dis
trict and shortly afternoon on Friday
an agreement wn-s reached. At the
conclusion of the afternoon session,
today an adjournment was taken un
til Monday morning when a final meet
ing will be held. In the meantime
the committee - will present .their re
port to the -employees assembled in
.mass meetings in the three camps.
(The concensus of opinion" is that the
1 committee report will be unanimous
ly adopted and all that remains is
-the formality of making the motion.
The new wage scale which was
agreed to by the committee, and
! which will be presented to the mass
'meetings is as follows:
I The companies agree to give their
i employ res the- following increases in
wages over the wage .hedule aow-in
effect: .
j Employees' tt prese'i. receiving,
jon the IS tent base, between 20 l-2c
: and 51 l-2c tncluslv.vwill be given an
i increase cf ten per cent when copti-r
j sells' for 1,. cents and over, with &
minimum daily wage of $2.00 par tly
Enipir-.Tpcr at present receivic , on
the- 13 cent base, between 25c and
33 l-2c per hour, inclusive, will be
given an increase of ten per ' cent
when copper sells for 13 cents, 14c,
15 cents and 16 cents.
- - Employees at present receiving, on
tlx 19 1 nn i. ... nr.
as l-zc per nour, inclusive, will be
given an increase of 15 per cent when
copper sells for 17 cents and over.
Employees at present receiving, on
tne 16 cent base, between 34c and 37
cents per hour inclusive will be given
an Increase of five per cent when cop
per sells for 13 cents, 14 cents, 15
cents and 16 cents.
Employees at present receiving, on
the 13 cent base, between 34c and 37
cents per hour, inclusive, will be
given an increase of ten per cent
when copper sells for 17 cents and
over
Employees at present receiving on
the 13 cent base 37 l-2c to 45c per
hour inclusive, will receive an in
crease of five per cent when copper
sells for 17 cents and over.
Mechanical crafts at present re
ceiving 49 1-2 cents per hour on the
13 cent base will be advanced to 50c
per hour on the same base when cop
per sells from 13 cents to 26 cents
inclusive. '
Carpenters and electricians receiv
ing 46 1-2 cents per hour on the 13
cent base will be advanced to 50c per
hour on the same base when copper
sells from 13 cents to 26 cents in
clusive. The present sliding scale of rates
to remain in effect.
Wages will be paid on the average
price of electrolytic copper for the
previous month r.s published in the
Engineering & Mining Journal.
This wage scale becomes effective
on March 1st, 1916. T
The above paragraphs recite the
details of the wage agreement and in
order for the reader to know how it
orks when applied to the present
selling price of copper, the following
rate tier fin V fnr thA following, rlnuioa
of labor has been computed. -
With copper selling at 26 cents per
pound, which ds the average selling
price for February:
Laborers, 8 hours $3.08
Miners, 7 1-2 hours 4.01
Muckers, 7 1-2 hours 3.30
Timbermen, 71-2 hours 4.20
Carpenters, 8 hours 5.60
Machinists, 8 hours 5.60
Boilermakers, etc 5. CO
From the above it is apparent that
IG
ERE C
