THE: OWOSSO TIMES-
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. FEB. 25. 1916.
NO. 48
Settle Damage Case.
The case of George Clark, an Owoss
drayman, against C. C. Wright
of
Owosso for $5,000 for being injured by
blows struck by Wright after Clark
had called hiui a liar, was settled out
of court. Wednesday, by the payment
of an agreed amount by Wright
Clark.
to
Safety First Rally.
Ann Arbor Railroad men will be en
tertained and instructed at a "Safety
first" meeting at the Odd Fellows' tern
r.1 Rfttnr.Trtv evenincr. Feb. 20. An
address with stereopticon views will be
. given by George Bradshaw of Toronto
Ont., followed by scenes along the Ann
Arbor Railroad and moving pictures
A dance will be held after the meeting
Special train service will take employes
home.
Too Strenuous Religion.
Sunday evening's service at the Apos
tolic Holiness church on South Wash
ington street, developed trouble when
the pastor walking through the aisle
with eyes closed colided with a chair
occupied by C. G. Eaton, and tipped
Eaton onto the floor. The latter re
sented the action and struck the pastor
Later Tom Jenkinson, a New Haven
farmer, and A. Hutchinson an Owosso
drayman, exchanged blows.
m m
Pioneer Society.
The annual meeting of the Shiawas
see County Pioneer Society was held in
Corunna Tuesday afternoon, with a
number present from every part of the
county. J. C. Curtis of Durand, pre
sided, and an able and interesting ad
dress was made by. Rev. J. Hartley
Cansfield of Owosso. Mrs. F. F. Hoyer
and Miss Ruth Mitohell sang a duet
and Orrin Jennings a solo. The elec
tion of officers resulted as follows:
President Archibald Wrigley.
First ViceJPresident-C. D. Smith.
Second Vice President J. F. Hutton.
Secretary-Treasurer John Y. Martin.
Librarian and Historian J. D. Ice
land. Acdused of Robbery."
Corunna, Feb. 24.--Frank Good
kneckt, section foreman of Ann Ar
bor yards in Owosso, was arrested by
members of the sheriff's force .Wed
nesday night and is held in the coun
ty jail in default of ball in the sum
of $1,000, charged with the theft of
$140, from John Renick, a foreigner,
ten days ago. The evidence against
Goodkneckt is all circumstantial but
the officers assert that it Is very
strong.
Renick went to Chesaning on Mon
day night, February 13, and drank
more than was good for him. On his
Teturn to Corunna he started out to
walk to his home near the brick
plant. Goodknecht is said to have
accompanied him and while, with
him, to have lifted the alien's roll.
Goodkneckt's examination is set
for Friday morning at 9 o'clock in
Justice Nichols' court.
Shiawassee Mutual.
At a meeting Fridav of the Shiawas
see Mutual Fire Insurance Co. board,
claims of Mrs. J. L. Peterson Owosso,
f 21 for loss of a straw stack and J. C.
Schaible, Perry, $5 damage to rug,
were ordered paid.
Township agents for 1016 were an
nounced as follows:
Antrim, Edward Dippey; Benning
ton, George Cook; Burns, Oscar Bird;
Caledonia, John Bilhimer; Fairfield,
Guy Walters; Uazelton, Robert Moore;
Middlebury, William Brookins; New
Haven, Warren Doan; Owosso town
ship, W. H. Launstein; Perry, A. L.
Beard; Rush, O. S. Mead; Shiawassee,
Edward Hoisington; Sciota, Edward
Putnam; Venice, Finley Reed; Vernon,
J. O. Marks; Wood hall, John Shaft, Jr.
Death of Walter Amos
Relatives here have received word of
the death of Friday, of Walter Amos,
formerly of this city, who has been
making his home near Tucson, Ariz.,
for the past five years. The body will
be brought to this city lator for burial.
Walter Amos was born in this city 84
years ago, and nntil five years ago made
his home here. There were 'nine chil
dren, two of whom are now living.
The others, with the father. Joseph
Amos, are buried in this city. About
25 years ago Walter fell from a merry-go-round
and was badly injured. Blad
der trouble set in and about ten years
ago he contracted tnburcnlosis. Five
years ago Mrs. Amos and three sons
went to Tucson hoping to benefit the
health of both Walter and Joe. Joe
died two years ago with tuberculosis
and Walter failed steadily. The sister,
Mrs. Glen Prnitt, formerly Miss Grace
Amos, of Urbana, III., went to Tucson
in September and because of the seri
ous condition of her brother remained
there.
Circuit Court.
Corunna, February 24. The di
vorce case of Absolem Ilolliwell, aged
86 years, and a retired Free Metho
dist minister, against Jane iHolliwell,
is on trial in circuit court Thursday.
The Holliwells were married here
about a year ago, but lived together
only six months. The aged man de
clared on the stand that his wife said
there was not enough excitement for
her in the first ward, where they liv
ed. Judge Sharpe granted a decree of
divorce to Helena Oik from Henry
Oik on grounds of cruelty. A prop
erty settlement had previously been
reached.
Judge Dodds of Mt. Pleasant, who
heard the arguments on the demur
rer of the defense in the case of
Hugh McDonald vs. L. C. Hall and
others, was here Thursday to sign
the order overruling the demurrer.
Byrnes-Powers Wedding.
Laingsburg, February 23 The
marriage of Miss Rose Powers and
Joseph Byrnes was solemnized here
Wednesday morning at St. Isadore's
Catholic church. Rev. Fr. Edward
Taylor read the marriage ceremony
in the presence of a largo gathering
of relatives and friends of the con
tracting parties.
The bride was becomingly gowned
in a tan traveling suit with hat to
match, and was attended by her sis
ter, Miss Catherine Powers, who wore
a blue suit and who acted as brides
maid. John Byrnes served as best
man.
Following the ceremony a wedding
reception was held at the home of the
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Powers. The home was handsomely
decorated for the event and an elabo
rate wedding dinner was served to a
large number of invited guests.
, Probate Court.
In the estate of Mary A. Deederly,
deceased, of the village of Durand, an
order was made Feb. 14, appointing
John E. Deederly administrator. The
petition was made by Charles H. Deed
erly of Flint, one of the heirs of the de
ceased. A petition war filed Feb Ml -for' the'
probate ;of the will of the late John
McLean. The deceased was a resident
of the village of Durand. The will was
executed on the 11th day of August;
1913, and witnessed by S. C. Patchell
and O. W. Peck.
On Feb. 14th M. M. Byingtonof Ven
ice township, was appointed special
county drain commissioner in relation
to the Bronson drain, located in Vernon
township, Alonzo Griffin the present
drain commissioner, being disqualified
to act on account of owning property
that is liable to assessment for benefits
received from said drain.
A petition was filed in the probate
court Feb. 15, by Esther Olmstead, of
Burns township, for the appointment
of an administrator of the estate of
John Olmstead, deceased. Hearing was
set for March 20, at ten o'clock.
Death of Mrs. Peoebe Brewer.
News of the death in Kalamazoo
at an early hour, Thursday morning,
of Mrs. Phoebe Brewer, widow of
Emory L. Brewer, and for years a
resident of this city, was received by
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wright, North
Washington street. The remains will
be brought to this city, Friday night
and funeral services will be held at
o'clock, Saturday morning at tho
chapel of Knapp & Smith. Rev. Hart
ley Cansfield will officiate. Burial will
take place in Oak Hill cemetery.
Mrs. Brewer Lad been in feeble
health for several years, but grip is
believed to have been the immediate
cause of her death. She died at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. J. P. Ev
erett. vrith whom she had made hsr
home since the death of her husband
fifteen years ago.
Mrs. Brewer was born in New York
seventy-two years ago, and came to
Michigan with her parents, when
but a small girl. The family locat
ed In Owosso and Mrs. Brewer mado
her home here until her husband
died.
She was one of the principals in a
double wedding in 1866, celebrated
at the home of Ezeklel Salisbury on
West Oliver street, now occupied b)
Burns Brewer and family. The oth
er principals were Kmory lirower,
her husband, and Burns Brewer
and Martha Salisbury. Mrs. Brew
er's maiden name was also Brewer.
During her residence in Owosso,
Mrs Brewer was prominent. Her hus
band conducted a boot and shoe store
here for years, and was always an
ardent advocate of prohibition.
Surviving Mrs. Brewer are her
daughter, Mr3. Everett, and a son,
Leo, of Mansfield, Ohio.
The fire loss on the E. F. Joslln build
ing occupied by the Woolworth Co. has
been adjusted at $1741.00. Repair work
will be commenced within a few days.
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Smith of Howell,
were gnests Tuesday at the home of O.
L.' Davis.
LINCOLN SCHOOL
Visited by Hundreds of Citizens and
a Fine Program Enjoyed.
The Lincoln school was thrown open
for public inspection and a fine program
of exercises given Friday evening. The
halls and rooms were crowded during
the early evening with parents and
children from all parts of the city and
everyone was highly pleased with the
building in every way and satisfied that
the school trustees had accomplished
an unusual amount with the funds pro
vided. The building is excellently
heated, lighted and ventillated, with
every modern conyenience in plumbing.
The amount appropriated was $30,000
from bonde and but $1,759.03 was ad
ded from the general fund and the
board is to be highly congratulated on
the work in its construction. At 3
o'clock W. E. Hall, chairman of the
building committee, called the gather
ing in the assembly room to order
and after telling of the board's work as
to the building called on Mjss . Kate
Corlett, principal of the school who
welcomed the visitors for the evening
and for future visits during school
hours.
Miss Barber of the high school faculty
spoke on "The Name" and urged pupils
t) high ideals along Lincoln lines.
W. D. Whitehead made an interest
ing address on "Our Schools" giving
historical facts of Owosso schools.
He said that sixty years ago there
was organized the fractional union dis
trict of O wosso and Caledonia. Records
show the number of pupils in the dis
trict as 205, and the average daily at
tendance 61. The sum of 1716.50 was
spent on the schools the first year. In
1859 the district board was organized,
with six members, as now. The mem
bers of the first board were Amos M.
Kellogg, B. O. Williams, Daniel Lyon,
Erastus White, George Hitchcock and
H. H. Carson. The board voted to or
ganize a high school. In 1865 the dis
trict was changed to the Union district
of Owosso, and has so remained. .
In, 1856. there was-one jrchpol boildieg-
m tne town, located , at tne; corner . or
Washington and Williams streets, on
the site now occupied by Salem's
Lutheran church. A grammar school
was also located on Exchange street.
In 1858-9 the first building was erected
on the central grounds. With its ad
ditions of about $60,000, this burned
in 1900, and the present high school
building was immediately rebuilt. The
Bryant school was built In 1883, Emer
son school in 1886, and the Washington
school in 1890, though the latter was
originally agreed upon in 1873. The
school property now is valued at $400,
000, with a bonded debt of $40,000.
The rate of taxation for school pur
poses in Owosso is only $10.20 per $1,000
valuation. This is nearly two dollars
per thousand less than any other city
in the state of the size of Owosso. The
school enrollment is 2,125.
Superintendent Longman discussed
"Future Plans," regretting that more
sites for schools had not been purchased
years ago and citing needs that would
occur in the not distant future, includ
ing a modern high school, the present
building to become a junior high school.
A building in West Owosso and one on
Corunna road will probably be needed
if growth continues.
Principal O. H. Voelke clearly set
forth the value of the school to the com
munity both as to practical and
theoretical sides. Mr. Voelker is the
new principal of the high school and is
most highly regarded by the board, the
faculty and the pupils.
O. L. Sprague congratulated the
board on the school and in pleasing
reminiscences reminded all of their
school days and made the work look
easier and more interesting to the
' scholars present
The program was en- j
i livened by a costume drill by girls of
the seventh grade with the school join
ing in the singing of The Star Spangled
Banner. ,
Miss Florence Mack, supervisor of
music, sang a pleasing solo. Miss Elsie ;
Whipple accompanied
program.
for the musical
Satzer-Diamond.
The marriage of Miss Bertha Anna, morning enroute for St. Johns to at
daughter of Mrs. Bertha Setzer, to tend the Clinton County Bepnblicau
Arthur Diamond, was solemnized Fri-
day, at the home of the bride's mother i
In thla ftv. Rn TV fJ. TTahn nf Saloma '
Lutheran church officiating in the pres-
ence of fifty guests. Miss Christlue '
Withington of Corunna, and George
Sotzer brother of the bride, attended !
4. I
the couple.
After the ceremony a three-course
dinner was served by Misses Libby
Byrnes, Bessie Kiley, Stella Jenson and
Mrs. Jack Holleran. Mr. and Mrs.
Dl amond. left after the ceremony for
i thir future home in Detroit.
(SHIAWASSEE
SPORTSMEN MEET
t Failed to Change Name of County
Organization Elect New Officers
Committees and Delegates Selec
ted. The Shiawassee County Sportsmen's '
Association held its annual meeting
Monday evening at the Union Tele
phone Co. building and failed to
change the name of the Association to
the "Shiawassee Wild Life League," as
expected, and elected officers as follows:
President Dr. G. L. Cramer.
Vice Pres. Scott Rundell.
Treasurer E. F. Hay ward.
Secretary Harland White.
Members Executive Committee L.
L. Conn, Alton Rundell.
The new president announced the
following committees for the year:
Game protection committee Geo. E.
Pardee, Perry Duffey, M. F. Blair, J. E.
Cady and Constant Hayes.
Program committee Van R. Pond,
John Hughes and Lee Woodard.
Foreign missionary work will be con
sidered at the services of the Congrega
tional church on Sunday. In the even
ing Dr. Mattson will give an illustrated
lecture, using for the first time the
new steropticon outfit. The views will
show the work in Japan.
Membership committee Silas Whee
lock, M. F. Blair, J. E. Cady and Geo.
Pardee.
The following delegates were elected
to attend the annual meeting of the
Michigan Wild Life Conservation As
sociation at Saginaw on February 24th:
George E. Pardee, C. D. Bell, M. F.
Blair, John McDonald, Alton Rundell.
bilas Wheelock, G. L. Cramer, Frank
Johnson, Harland White. J. E. Cady,
Scott Rundell and David Graham.
An Audubon committee will be named
soon and the work of protecting song
and insecterorous birds be taken up as
well as work along several lines.
L A. of K. C. is Estertalned.
The Ladies'. Auxiliary of the Knights
f f rCl"btas. iidettghtfuliy v enter
tained Tdeaday afternoon at - the home
of Mrs. T." P. Siess. The house was ap
propriately decorated with flags and a
picture of George Washington was con
spicuously shown.
During the early part of the after
noon progressive cards were enjoyed
and Mrs. M. Cavanaugh was awarded
the first prize and Mrs. J. Green re
ceived the consolation. Later the ladies
known as the Michigan Study club,
took up their literary work and a fine
talk by Mrs. N. R.' Walsh on the'life of
George Washington and the American
flag was greatly enjoyed, Mrs. Walsh
spoke of the effort which the city of
Detroit is making to Americanize the
immigrants. Her address was instruc
tive and was greatly enjoyed by all.
The entertainment closed with singing
of "The Star Spangled Banner."
m i m
A force of a dozen or more carpenters
is now busy with the interior finish of
the auditorium of the new armory and
will be ready to begin work on the floor
the last of next week. It is now
thought that the building will be com
pleted the last of March or the first
week in April.
"Farmers' Week" at the M. A. C.
Feb. 28 to March 4. There will be
courses in Soils and Crops, Dairying,
Animal Husbandry, Poultry, Horticul
ture, Bee Keeping, Veterinary 8cience,
Highway Construction and Mainten
ance, Farm and Household Mechanics
and nome Economics. The instruction
will be by lectures. Programs mailed
on application to L. R. Taft, Supt.
Farmers' Institute, East Lansing.
The Colonial supper at the Congrega-
tional chnrcb, Tuesday evening, was
attended bv over 400 persons and waa
one of tne m08t enjoyable social affairs
ever given in the church. The repast,
prepared by the ladies of the Social
Union and served by the men of the
Brotherhood class, was excellent and
otic pantomine given bv a class of eirls
nnder the direction of Miss Getman was
the fenture of the evening.
Hon. J. W. Fordney and M. N. Brady !
! of Saginaw, were in the city Thursdav
Club banquet, where the former was j
listed with ex-Vice President Fairbanks
on.1 lia tavAnl aaniranta trr fho i
nation for governor to talk. Mr. Ford-
ney will leave for Washington tomor-
row to be present in the house Monday !
when the vote is tanen upon the bill to '
. . . - ., . . ,
take sugir from the free lit where it
wonld go under the provisions of the
Underwood tariff within a few months
and to fir thedutv at the present rate. '
For a minority member, Mr. Fordney
has had an unusually large amount of
work to do during the present Keslon,
i "OUR LIVES, OUR FORTUNES
! AND OUR SACRED HONOR."
! Following is a condensed summary of
the very thoughtful and timely s rmon
' delivered by Dr. B. G. Mattson at the
Congregational church Sunday morning
Luke 9:62-"No Man, Having Put
His Hand to the Plow, and Looking
Back, is Fit For the Kingdom of
God."
The challenge of an enduring purpose
rings out in these great words. That
the call of Him who spoke them has not
been unheeded through the centuries is
witnessed by a noble succession of fear
ie?s and unnincning men ana women
by whom, in our own and other lands.
the Kingdom of God has been brought
mure iuHr.
By the slue of these words drawn
from the sacred documents of our re
ligious faith I venture to place today,
other words, drawu from the most
sacred docament of our political faith,
The Declaration of Independence: "We
hold these truths to be self evident,
that all men are created equal, that
they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unauenaoie rignts, mat among
these are Life, Liberty and the Pursuit
of Happiness." By the side of this im
mortal affirmation of human rights, I
venture further to place the closing
words the vow of an unswerving pur
pose as fifty six strong men set their
hands to the plow of the nation's des
tiny. These other words with which
the great doenment closes are, "And
for the support of this Declaration, with
a firm reliance on the protection of
Divine Providence, we mutually pledge
to each other, our Lives, our Fortunes
and our sacred Honor."
It is no sacrilege thus to place this
great affirmation and this great
pledge of loyalty side by side with
the words of the divine Son of God.
In a broad and true sense they interpret
and fulfill His gospel and His mission.
Among these human rights is the right
to life. Yes, did not He say, "I. am
come that they might have life and
that they might have it more abundant
ly. The right to liberty ;;yes and He
said also "I came to set at liberty them
that are bruised" and this too: "Ye
shall know the truth and the truth
shall set you free." The right to the
pursuit of happiness, yes and did . He
not set before men the supreme goal of
happiness when He cried "Happy are
they who hunger and thirst after
righteousness for they shall be filled?"
And when we bare our heads again
before the splendid pledge of loyalty
with which the Declaration of Indepen
dence closes we become aware that it
draws its moral grandeur from its kin
ship with words like these: "No man
taketh my life from me; I lay it down
of myself." And these: "The foxes
have holes and the birds of the air have
nests but the Son of Man hath not
where to lay his bead." And these:
"If any man serve me, him will the
Father honor."
I speak then at this crisis hour in our J
nation's life and in the last and greatest
crisis of our Christian civilization. In
such an hour we may well take again
to heart the great, the eternal ideals
voiced first in the message and life of
the Christ and again in these heroic
words, "Our Lives, our Fortunes and
our sacred Honor."
There is no evasion or quibbling here;
no paring down the cost and haggling
about the price. With a future un
known and a destiny unmeasured, into
the lot of a new born nation these brave
men caht their all. Fifty-six names are
written at the end of the immortal
document. John Hancock's heads the
list. Samuel Adams and John Adams
are there. Benjamin Harrison and
Benjamin Franklin are there and Thorn-
as
Jefferson whose hand and brain
forged this "greatest message to hu
manity ever struck off at a eingle sit
ting by a human pen."
In what fulness of meanijg. then,
may we ask, did these men make good
their noble pledge of loyalty? And
still more necessary is it that we ask
how we shall be included in this our
own time In pledging our lives, our
fortunes and our sacred honor?
The record of the fathers is secure.
Forever those glorious pages will re
ma n unsullied in the story of the up
ward progreHs of the race. Not for
themselves alone did thov make those
affirmations of rights unalienable.
For
ail n theV POe,
ror every race
for the countless
and Color of Skin;
at onr Krtte8 and for tho still mightier
multitude of those who, owing allegl-
auce to thrones and empires not our
uWP- J6"???1 with u,to flhuare tbe
right to life, to liberty and to the pur-
anjt of b8ppine88. Nor wh- it for them-
pelves alone that these fifty six inen
solemnly weighed tbe cost of these high
pmlWes a tuev pledged their live.
...... v. n an f thai a .1 ...-., I 1. .... ...
Vrnm that ,mnP tn thi, thA nat.nn h
never repudiated and neyer will repu
(Continued on pago six.)
TARIFF ERROR NOW AD
MITTED BY DEMOCRATS
Thought "Antl-Dnmpiog" Legislation
"Too Much Protection" in 1913.
KILLED VERY LAW THEN THAT
THEY ARE TRYING TO PUT
THROUGH TODAY.
Rep Fordney Exposes Another Sam
plo of Vaunted Business Efficiency
of Wilson Rule.
Washiogtou, Feb. 21. One of the
hardest blows yet dealt the Wilson ad
ministration on the score of business
efficiency is delivered by Representa
tive Joseph W. Fordney, of Michigan,
who will become chairman of the ways
and means committee of the house of
of representatives when the hou?e goes
Republican.
Mr. Fordney has reminded the Demo
cratic members of tbe ways and means
committee, aod be intends soon to re
peat the information on the floor of the
house that the present effort to pass
anti-dumping legislation is nothing
more than an effort to appease the
Americanvlaborer as well as the Ameri
can business man by enacting at this
pre-election date identically the
same anti-dumping clause which was
knocked out of the Underwood-Sim'
mons tariff law in 1913.
REALIZE THEIR MISTAKE.
Mr. Fordney drafted an anti-dumping
clanse back in 1912 and presented It to
the then chairman of the ways and
means committee, Oscar W. Under
wood, who was so impressed by its
great importance that he inserted it in
his tariff bill. The house passed the
Underwcod bill with the anti-dumping
clause exactly as Mr. Fordney wrote it.
The Democaatic senat knocked this
clause out "as savoring too much cf
protection.' And the Underwood
Simmons law as finally enacted was
minus this clause. -
These facts about 1913 have been
received ? with 'dismay by the present
Democratic leaders in the house. ' They '
realize that they are being placed in a
most embarrassing position by .being
compelled at this time to do precisely
what Mr. Fordney proposed should be
done three years ago.
CANADA HAS SUCH A LAW.
"It has surprised a good many con
gressinen, Mr. Fordney said to The
Detroit Free Press, "to learn that
Canada now has an anti-dumping law
and that it is being enforced very rigid
ly against manufacturers in the United
States who are found to be selling their
products in Canada at less than the
price charged in the United States.
The Canadian government has a
force of inspectors engaged all the time
in this country Investigating the books
of United States manufacturers whoce
goods are exported to Canada.
"One of the best illustrations of tbe
workings of the Canadian law I know
of is the following:
"Suspicion arose that a certain manu
facturer in Ohio was selling his pro
ducts at a lower price in Canada than
in the United States.
"A Canadian inspector called at the
factory and asked to be allowed to go
over tbe books.
"The Ohio manufacturer refused ask
ing by what right he desired such in.
spection.
HOW LAW IS ENFORCED.
"The Canadian inspector replied that
it was true that Canadian law was not
binding on a manufacturer in the
United States and he went away.
"But the next shipment of goods from
that Ohio factory to Canada was stop
ped at the border and not allowed to
enter Canada.
"Tbe Ohio manufacturer made in
stant inquiry of the Canadian customs
officers. He was politely informed that
there was a suspicion that he was vio
lating the Canadian anti-dumping law;
that he had refused to permit inspec
tion of his books; and that inasmuch as
the Canadian government was nnable
to decide whether or not the law was
being violated they had ordered bars
down on further shipments from him.
"Most energetic appeal was then
made by the Ohio man to have the
Canadians please come quickly and in
spect his books. He promised to throw
everything wide open. The Canadians
had him on his knees.
"Well, in time, an inspector was sent
and he reported to his government
Shortly afterward tbe Canadian govern
ment informed the Ohio manufacturer
that they were satisfied the Ohioan was
not violating the anti-dumping law and
no further obstacle would be lai 1 in tho
way of his goods entering Canada.
WHY AMERICA NEEDS LAW.
"That." continued Mr. Fordney,
'Vhows how the anti-dumping law
(Continued on page four.)
