(c (C rife 5C )(C JC fc ifc 5t 3((
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
rrti
CIRCULATION IS
rwvTt T1ATT.Y '
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1916
nnTPT? rmvn n?lUT(J ON TRAINS AND NEW
rKICrj TWO LJ&Nlo stands ftve cents
off fl.f?
final
f S-r" 1 fll 11 s J II i
I -Bl If LI j-r. II II '1 II
IP I II II II iS
HARVEST OF DEATH IS
SHOWING HEAVY YIELD
German Crown Prince Within Two Miles of Coveted Goal
Distorted Comses Pile Battlefield While River of Wound-
ed Flows to Rear-Manv Towns and 10.009 Prisn ;rs
Caottired bv Germans French Claim German Ad ice
I Is Checked Mre Takes Command
London, Feb. 25. Though Paris officially report . to
day that the violence of the German drive against V dun
was diminishing, the Berlin-official announcement i d of
capture of six more villages, and thousands of prisoners
along an eight mile front before the city. At some points,
the German crown prince's men are within two miles of
their coveted goal. Not only have the French wings been
driven back but the center, too, has been forced to a
point within six miles of the city.
It is a trail of blood the Germans are leaving. Dis
torted corpses of the best fighters of France and Germany
and thousands of wounded are the battle's harvest. Ber
lin said the French losses had been particularly heavy and
that the Germans lost only what might be expected from
the magnitude of the struggle.
. The Paris communique, while claiming to have checked
the Teutons for the time being, virtually admitted, as
Berlin said, that the Germans had taken Champ Neuville,
Beaumont, Ornes and the farms and villages between, in
cluding Cottellette, Marmont and Chambrettes.
General Joff re, French commander in chief, has taken
personal direction of the French defense. Paris hails this
enthusiastically, as meaning a sure turn of fortunes.
The apparent contradiction in the official statements
Paris telling of a check and a lull in the infantry and
artillery battling and Berlin reporting fresh gains was
probably due to the fact that the Paris statement is
later. The Berlin statement probably covered events of
the early night after which, as Paris said, there were no
infantry attacks.
In addition to revealing appalling losses, Berlin
claimed 10,000 prisoners had already been taken, together
with much booty.
Uudon, Feb. 2.1. The French are
cneiliing the Genu in crown prince's
drive against Verdun and apparently
are holding their own except at a few
minor points, a special dispatch from
I'mis today declared.
in capturing Siungneux and other po
sitions to the easlw.ml, the (iermans
placed themselves within two miles of
the tort at Houainont and within easy
ui.ige of Tavennes and Vaux. The guns
of these positions, however, arc report
ed tr lined on the attaching forces while
at the same time a perilous fire Is di
rected from French field redoubts and
Mil va need trenches.
The report check may be only tem
porary, however, for the Verdun drive
is the greatest Teuton offensive since
the Mame defeat. The human sacrific
es of the past few days, couple with the
reported order of a German corps colu
mn n. lor saying the (Iermans are bent
upon their "last offensive in France,"
indicates th.it the Teutons may be pre
pared to press their victories to a cap
ture or Verdun at tiny price.
Meanwhile Paris manifests supreme
colli ideui-c in tiie outcome. The French
believe the Verdun offensive must fail
because of its enormous cost in human
life.
For some weeks they have been aware
of the Cciimiu preparations, .ind in the
imautime have not been idle. Airmen
kept watch of building of supply rail
roads for reinfoicing and sending muni
Me
Aba Martin
Ther hain't nothiu' a knocker likes
belter than th' society of another
Knni-ker. Th' richer folks are th' great
er s iniethin' fer nothin' seems t' np-I-iti
I t' 'em.
i NOT" - Qu .
3
tions to Verdun. All possible informa
tion was gathered, so that the French
knew in advance with what they had
to contend.
Battles between Airmen and bomb at
tacks against artillery positions have
been constant over the battlefield. The
French- now are aligned in an effort to
prevent the Teutons from closing in on
Verdun from positions six to eight miles
distant.
Offence is Slackening.
Paris, Feb. 25. The offensive o Gar
ni a ti Crown Prince Frederick Wilhelm
against Verdun shows signs of slacken
ing, the war office announced this i
ernoon. There were no attacks last
night and the artillery firing was less
violent.
The French artillery is now holding
its own along the 25 mile trout before
Verdun and there is every indication
that the giant Teuton offensive t
been checked temporarily at least.
The French are organizing new posi
tions behind Beaumont and the heu
east of C'hampneuville, south of Ornes,
and not tar from erdun. taking ad
vantage of the lull in the infantry at
tacks, they are preparing to meet tlie
expected renewal of the drive.
Blizzards Hamper Russians.
retrograd, Feb. 25. Blizzards are
partially thwarting the Russian pursuit
of Turks driven from Erzerum when
thut city fell. The Slav right wing,
however, is approaching Rizch, east of
Trebizond.
Tho Russians have dislodged the
Turks from fortifications nt Bideswiu
and the Sakhne mountaiu passes. The
Turks are retreating toward Herman
sah. Moewe Raids South Atlantic.
Teneriffe, Feb. 25 The German com
merce raider Moewe harrnssed British
Commerce off South America between
January Hi and February 11. according
to the captain of our of the victims
which arrived here today.
The Muewe has been reported to be
the raider which captured the African
liner Appnm, recently taken into New
port News. W. Va., as a prize. It was
thought, too, she was responsible for
taking the British atenmer Wcstburn.
which was brought into the Canaries
this week ond later taken out within
the three mile limit and scuttled.
The. captain said that the where
about of the Moewe had been a mystery
but that between the dates mentioned
she had cruised between South Amer
ica and the Brazilinn island of Fernan
do De Noronha.
The Muewe encountered the 4.00H ton
British steamer Flamenco while the lat
ter was heading for Valparaiso. This
vessel attempted to escape and w ireless
ed for help, but she was overtaken and
(Coatinu4 ea Page Three.)
WAR NEWS OF ONE
YEAR AGO TODAY
The Franco-British fleet bom
barded the Dardanelles forts,
demolishing many on both sides
of the straits. The Germans
opened a direct line into War
saw by capturing the strategic
point city of Przasnysz.
SllflffP (lHliVVaV flvPlTlliP?
Demurrer Case Must Be
Tried On Merits
The Albany Democrat yesterday had
the following court proceedings in the
Hyde land fraud case:
in department Xo. 2 of the circuit
court this morning Judge Win. Gallo
way nude his decision overruling the
demurrer of the defendants in the case
of the state of Oregon vs. F. A. Hyde.
A. S. Baldwin et al to recover title to
some 47,000 acres of timber land. The
defudaut demurred to the complaint,
holding that the V. S. government
should have been made a party to the
suit and that action should h.ive been
started sooner.
n his decision Judge Gallowav held
that the government was not a party to
the suit on account of the fact that the
suit was over state lands and held to
the contention that the case was filed in
on i t as soon as possible on account of
the papers in the case being held by the
government prosecutors in Washington
from 1IHI4 to 1012.
The first complaint was filed by-ex-Attorney
General A. M. Crawford, on
November 20, 1014, and a supplement
ary complaint was filed by Attorney
General Geo. Brown Jaiiuuv 12, 1010,
to compel defendants to return to t In
state over 34,000 acres of school lands.
The complaint states that F. A. Hyde,
ex timeber promoter of San Francisco,
with his associates in llW-0!t secured
title to some 47,000 acres of school laud
in Linn, Lane, Klamath, J.icksoii, Clack
amas, Hood River and Crook counties.
Kntries were, made through 110 dummy
entryinen, most of whom were real per
sons, but .13 of whom were fictitious.
The land in valued at $."OU,000.
Arter a trial lasting tour years Ilydo
was convicted by a federal "grind jury
in Washington, I). C. in l'MH, ami he
was convicted the same year to serve 18
niontns in prison. .1. Ji. Snyder was
convicted with Hyde, and J. A. Benson
and Henry Diamond were admitted.
After securing patents to these lands
Hyde and his associates .isked to be al
lowed to exchange them for lieu lands
in the Cascade forest. Some 10,000 acres
have since been transferred, and these
tne uereniiants will havo to gie an ac
counting for. Hvde went to the ex
tent of bribing government officials,
ami even causing forest reserves to be
created to servo his own purposes. He
secured t.)U,000 acres in California.
Bv Judge Galloway's decision todav
defendants were given 20 davs in which
to answer and plaintiff 10 days more
in which io me reply.
Those Who Have Paid Money
to Blackmailers Will Have
to Tell About It
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 25. Assurance
that all the wealthy alleged victims of
the Seattle "badger" gang will be
called os witnesses when the ease
against Louis P. Sichler, Mrs. Isabel
Clayburg and Miss Lillian Peterson
comes to trial here, was given today by
Prosecutor Alfred Liindin.
A - new complaint against the two
men and Sichler is being filed in super
ior court by Lundin today, in which is
charged conspiracy to blackmail a
wealthy mining promoter "and others"
between April 1, 1914, and April 1.
1IM5.
"Mrs. Clayburg will be extradited on
that charge," said Lundin, "as well as
Miss Peterson, if she is apprehended."
Photos of the alleged victims, all of
whom are wealthy and prominent, will
be used as evidence, according to
Lundin. The pictures are said to show
(he men in compromising situations.
"I have evidence," said Sheriff
Hodge today, "that one of the women
involved in the alleged blackmailing is
now collecting the rentals of a wealthy
apartment house owner here, who, I
am told, hurried to Los Angeles im
mediately after the story was made
public,"
LABOR LEADERS ARRESTED
Washington, Feb. 25. Refusing to
give $5,000 bnil when I'nited States
Commissioner Taylor held that they
must answer Tuesday in New York to
an indictment charging conspiracy in
the labors National Peace Council case,
ex Representative Fowler, Herman
Seh ul tera and Henry Martin were ar-rc-ted
today.
SENT TOJFHE PACIFIC
Admiral Winslow Against It,
But Would Provide More
Navy Yards
Washington, Feb. 23. Transfer of re
serve ships of the Atlantic fleet to the
Pacific coast was suggested by Repre
sentative Stephens of California to the
house naval committee todav. Admiral
Winslow, Pacific fleet commander, said,
however, that this is inadvisable at
present and he expressed the desire that
Atlantic fleet be kept intact
He wn'j in favor of improving navy
yard facilities on the Pacific coast and
he thought the Puget Sound yard
should be better prepnred, though he
regarded it as questionable whether
the nation should spend money on the
Mare Island yard,.
"Wouldn 't you favor sending a board
of officers to the coast to locate a new
vard, if one is established?" asked
Stephens.
"Yim." answered the admiral.
Winslow said that 48 submarines for
the Pacific e"6ast( would not be exces
sive, and he counselled construction of
larger tvpes than, now are used.
He did not believe that the Mare Is
land yard could ,be developed into a
first class yard, nj when it was selected
"there was no iij-a of the large ships
we would build eventually."
Winslow- declared the American navy
is not efficient aid that it will not be
unless the promotion system ir based
upon selection instead of seniority, F.x
perts, he said, tirl too old when they
reach responsible (positions.
L
Immigration Worker Would
Have Children Handled
More Intelligently
San Francisco, Feb. 25. More intel
ligent handling of immigrant childien
in the schools and the preparation for
reception of an immense immigrant
horde following the European war are
two problems this country should ex
amine more closely, believes Mary An
tin, famous immigration worker and au
thor, who arrived in San Francisco to
day. Miss Antin came to America an im
migrant. -She fought her way to the
top ,and for years has been an advo
cate of immigration reforms.
"The public should realize that ev
ery third person in this country is eith
er foreign born, or born of foreign pa
rents," she remarked.
"Three millions cannot speak the
English language, and twice that num
ber cannot read it. After the war, mil
lions more, sickened by the war hor
rors, will seo in America a new haven
of rest.
"Let us start with the American
school system. The method of educating
the children of immigrants is old fash-
UJ ' Tonohnra do tint ncfinnilit these
, . , , ,
people with the fundamental pnnci -
pies of American government. Thcyu,
slioulil lie better irainea ior iniwiigeiii
itizenshin. Memorizing preambles of
the constitution will never do it The
educators should discuss personally and
simply the value of freedom, of the bal
lot and tho necessity of looking into
various issues and election questions."
SLIGHT EARTHQUAKE FELT
T.onir Beach, Cal., Feb. 25. Residents
of the eastern part of Long Beach felt
about a dozen short earthquake shocks
between 8:.'!0 nnd 9 o'clock this morning
which rattled doors, windows and
dishes. No damage has been reported.
Each 'shock was of about five seconds
duration.
RETIRED BANKER IS
KILLED BY
IN WIFE'S PRESENCE
Han Jose, f "al., Pel). 2.1. Fighting
with a burglar in the dark of his home
today, George A. Jones, iged 70, a
wealthv retired banker, was atabbed
to death while Mrs. Jonea groped in the
room for her husband, flunking he was
suffering from a nightmare.
Tho woman, aroused from her sleep
in a room adjoining her husband's,
heard a noise in the kitchen. Xhe be
lieved her husliind had wandered there
as he previously had suffered from
nightmares and somnambulism.
Hhe stretched forth her hand, ondjOiily to tic felled with a knife,
touched her husband. Horrified, she; Jones leaves two sisters, Mrs. T,
found he was struggling with a burglar.
She ran from the house, screaming,
summoned ,T. Y. Otto, a neighbor, and
returned to find her husband dying on
the floor and the burglir gone. There
werf five knife wounds on his body.! search for the murderer and a ive no
His .jugular vein hail ben hacked, and , titied other cities and towns to be on
his noe was split ulmost to the mouth.) the watch for him.
PROTEST IS SENT ENGLAND
Washington, Feb. 25 A pro
test against British seizure of
Germans from the China Mail
liner China, (American), while
en route from China to San
Francisco, was forwarded by
the state department to Eng
land today.
$
Five Heavy Packages of Reg
istered Mail Taken, Value
of Which Is Unknown
Tnsoma, Wnsh., Feb. 25. That the
bandits who held up and robbed North-
.1ai-ific passenger train No. 2 near
Covington last night, probably escaped
in an automobile following the rob
bery was indicated early today by re
ports coining from the train crew, who
snid that half an hour after, the robbers
disappeared in the forest on nutomnliile
going nt high speed toward Seattle
passed the train. The machine came
from the direction of Ravensdule and
it was believed the car had been wait
ing to pick up the bandits when they
finished their work.
What booty, if any, was obtained by
the robbers is not known nt this time.
Five heavy packages of registered mail
including mail from tne Orient thnt was
being forwarded to New York, was tak
en, according to latest information.
Postoffice officials hero 'say they di
not know the contents of the foreign
pouches, each of which weighed "'
pounds and mny have contained pack
ages of great value. The express safe
withstood the efforts of the men tr
dvnnniite it. Northern Express Agent
W. W. Ward said todny that there was
little monev in the express safe.
The bandits boarded the train nt F
Auburn, crawled over the tender and
flashed liirhts in the faces of Engineer
Moore and Fireman Wright. T'"
backed up their orders with large revol
vers. Both were masked. ,
Monro was commanded to "set the
air" and cut off his. headlight. He was
held on the locomotive 'while Writ'
was forced to uncouple the mail and ex
press cars. Then Moore was ordered, to
go ahead. About n mile and n half up
the track the engineer was commanded
to stop, and open the bapirnge ear door.
This ho refused to do. The men then
fired several shots over the head of the
express clerk inside. He finally opened
the door nnd admitted one of the
bandits. The engine was then driven
within o mile nnd a half of Havensdale.
where the attempt was made to blow
the safe, and where the mail poncho?
were rifled.
Within a half hour after the t r :
was held up, news of the robbery was
given, by Flagman Berd, who escaped
from the robbers nnd to Covington
where he gave the alarm. Pomes from
various nearby towns were soon out on
the trail of the robbers and it is
thought the posses will be able to cut
off every avenue of escape.
Made Rich Haul.
Tacomn, Wash., Feb. 2.". More than
". " ! J 1 ' '
$0,000 in negotiable paper and regis-
I'ereii mail sent trom lacomn .ilono was
, . . , ... . . ,,
ea(,,,onn(, North Coaat Limited of
tiie Northern Pacific railroad near Cov
ington and rilled mail pouches, it was
le.imed hero todav.
Dr. I). H. Bell told the postoffice of
ficials that in one of the sacks of mail
taken was $4,000 worth of negotiable
certificates nt deposit that he had sent
to a bank nt Kenmire, North Dakota.
It is reported that $.'100 worth of bond
coupons, sent by a local bank, were in
one ol the stolen pouches.
B. C. Blanehard, general manager of
the Pacific division of the Northern
Pacific railroid said nt noon today that
no word hnd been received from the
company's special agents who oie out
with tho posses searching for the ban
dits. BURGLAR
State Kcnator II. C. Jones nnd a doc
tor hurried to tho house, but Jones was
dead before then. Behind tiie house,
officers later found a trail of blood
leading sever U blocks to a prominent
street, indicating that Jones had suc
ceeding in wounding his assailant. In
the kitchen, blood was spattered over
the entire room.
The police theory is that o burglar,
gaining entry in soino strange way,
aroused Jones. The latter, without
wiiting to light a lamp hurried to the
kitchen and grnpled with tho intruder,
K.
Kolsom of Palo Alto and Mrs. Phoebe
Clnngh, of l.viin, Massachusetts, and a
nephew who has been summoned from
Palo Alto.
Police and depu .es are conducting n
WILSON ID CONGRESS
CLASH OVER "WARNING"
President Tells Conferees He Will Not Budge From His
Position of Insisting Germany Recognize Every Amer
ican Right-Speaker Clark Tells Him the House Is Over- -whelmingly
In Favor of Warning-Gore Introduces Bill
Making It Illegal for. Americans to Travel On Erased
Merchant Ships
Washington, Feb. 25. Arguments of house conferees
on the German situation failed to swerve President
Wilson today from his stand that the German armed
merchantman decree transgresses international law and
that Americans ought not to be warned from such vessels.
After nearly an hour's session with Speaker Clark,
Majority Leader Kitchin and Chairman Flood of the house
foreign committee, there was still a disagreement be
tween the president and congress as to the decree. The
upshot of the session, however, was no action was to be
taken by congress today at least.
President Wilson emphatically told the conferees that
he would not budge from his plan of insisting that Ger
many recognize every American right.
Just as positively, Speaker Clark replied that the
house is overwhelmingly in favor of issuing a warning.
For the present, the house will take no action, the con
ferees said. It is not believed that members will evolve
their decision before next week. In the interval Ger
many's reply to the American position will undoubtedly
be at hand, so that the president will have an oppor
tunity to determine his further action, which undoubtedly
will have a bearing on the position congress takes.
In leaving the conference, Speaker Clark, besieged by
newspapermen said:
"I told the president what the sentiment of the house
is. Senator Stone's letter and the president's reply are
the last word on both sides of the question. When the
house members read these letters, they will determine
what the situation is." .
While the conferees admitted that neither side had
succeeded in changing the convictions of the other, they
said they had promised the president their utmost sup
port in preventing summary action on the part of the
house.
Upon reaching his office nt the cap
itol, Speaker Clark elaborated his pre
vious statement, saying:
"There is a rumor that Germans will
postpone operations of their decree to
the middle of March or the first of
April. I am just gassing at this, but
if it is true, it will give more time
for consideration. If they postpono it
think the whole matter, as far as the
house is concerned, will remnin in statu
quo.
"The sum and sbstnnce of tho con
ference, outside of explaining the tem
per of the house and much arguing on
both sides, is that the situation is fully
set out in the two letters. We ex
plained how the Iiouhc fecln. We told
the president that a warning would
carry in the house by two to one if it
came to a vote. Some snv it would
carry by three to one.
"There was a great deal of talk
about international law and precedent
which it is not necessary to repeat.
President Wilson stands on his letter
to Senator Stone, as I sec it. The
warning resolution will not conio up to
day. Some one might try to obtain
unanimous consent, but, of course, there
would be numerous objections."
Major Leader Kitchen said that mat
ters remained in statu quo and that ho
picferred to let Speaker Clark talk of
the melting.
Following the conference, nn impor
tant session of the cnbinet was sched
uled to consider the German problem.
Senator Stone's View.
Sdiiior Stone's announcing his view
that a warning should be issued to
Americans not to travel on armed mer
chantmen elicited another letter from
the president Inst night in which he
u 1'iered to the decision, that, while he
nrnnl.l ri-i- In miiintnin nence. he would
do so only if the honor of America was
upheld. Stone announced, nowever, mi
his, letter thnt he would try to prevent
an outbreak in congress on the subject
of issuing a warning.
The Stone letter followed a reported
disngre. ment between him and Yrf
den Wilson in their Monday night con
ference. Stone snid he revealed the
president's position Insofar as he rould
without violating confidence. This posi
tion sho-ved the pesidcut to be firml
for insistence upon tho opponents of
Amerirnns to travel on armed ships.
The President a Position.
Tn reply the president said in part:
"No nation or croup of nntlons has
the right while the war is in progress
f nlttti- nr iliri-ffnrit the tirincirdes
i which nil nations have agreed upon in
mitigation of the horrors and sutrenngs
nf ttriir- niwt !f the clenr riihts of Am-
erienn citizens should ever unhappily
be abridged or uenien ny any sucii ac
tion, we should, it seems to me, linvc
in honor no choice ns to what onr own
course should be."
At the same time, he declared he
had no reason to question the Rood
faith of the central powers in past
negotiation's, nnd "I for one feel con
fident thnt wo shall have none in the
future."
"While declaring that the armed mer
chantman decreo seemed for the pres
ent to offer insuperuWe obstacles, ho
voiced the opinion "thnt explanations
will presently ensue which will put a
different aspect oa it."
Chnirman Flood, like Speaker Clartc,
said he hnd heard "rumors" that ope
ration of the decree would be post
poned. "The situation is hopeful," he saitl.
"I am dure there will be no action ir
tho house today."
The state department said, however,
that it hnd received nothing to justify
rumors of a postponement. Henretitrv
of Mat I.nnsing went to the White
House for a 10 minute talk with th
president in advance of the cabinet
meeting.
Oore Insists on Warning.
Washington, Feb. 25. Tmmediatelv
npon the convening of the senato to
day. Senator Gore introduced his bill
making it illegnl for Americans to
travel upon armed vessels during th
war, and also a resolution providing"
for a warning to them to refrain from
anch travel.
A resolution by Senator .Tones of
Washington requesting President Wil
son not to sever diplomatic relation
with any nntinn and not to place Am
erica in a position where she conld not
honoroably avoid war, was tabled.
After a two hour session, the eabint
declared itself solidlv behind the presi
dent, and resolved not to close the I.us-
H'n tinned nn P Thri
THE WEATHER f
fWJrTTOHA
KJ
Oregon: Fair
tiuiigtht and
Saturday; north
easterly winds.
