Sjjwfi W' &f&$m sWtWjsnk -1-
EINANCIAL'EDITION
Cuenmg
NIGHT
Reiner
NIGHT
EXTRA
EXTRA
VOL. H. NO. 294
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 191G.
ConitonT, 1018, ai :m Fciuo Logti Ceurint.
PRICE ONE CENT
HEN THEITY SWELTERS UNDER A TEMPERATURE THAT PLAYS AROUND MIDDLE 90'S
Splf5st!Wfmi5Mii''iy.' ii
R.R. MAGNATES
REST WITH NO
TERMS FIXED
Wilson and Congresaf
Chiefs Discuss
Legislation t
QUICK NEWS
DETROIT
ATHLETICS...
,fs?f .at
I
-S' f , -
PHILLIES 0 0
FFTTSBURGH. 0 0
Rlxey and Killefcr Kaiitlehiicr ttiid gcliuildt.
s,"
Drawn from life by a ta artist of the Etenixo hznain
h
BATTLE'RAGE
ALONG 150-MILE
BALKAN FRONT
Lilies Press Teuton
Center Along" Barren
Vardar Valley
TURKS SEND FORCES
cTO HELP BULGARIANS
Germans Penetrate French
Tfench Lines South of
Somrae, Paris Admits
(ITALIANS WIN IN TYROL
Hughes the Best Help for Us,
Says Democratic Field Chief
By VANCE C. McCORMICK.
Chairman of the Democratic National
Committee.
CHICAGO, Aug. 23.
HRHE Hughca tour has been a com---plete
failure. He has been flat
tened out. Ho started out strong,
but ha3 grown steadily weaker.
He is trying to play a 50-50 prop
osition trying to please Crane,
Penrose and Smoot, of his steering
committee, on tho one hand and the
progressive members of his cam
paign committee on the other. He
cannot enthuse one clement without
offending tho other; ho has not de
veloped a single issue so far. He's
been the biggest help we Democrats
could have had.
HEAT KILLS ONE;
NINE OVERCOME;
MERCURY AT 94
Seven Girls Prostrated
Manufacturing Plant;
Breezes May Bring
Relief
in
PARK MURDERER
AT GIRL'S MERCY;
POLICE HELPLESS
"Spooner" Who Shot Youth
for Taunting Him Can't
Be Found
AMERICAN LEAGUE
ST. LOUIS, 1st g 1 2. 1 0
WASHINGTON,... 0 OO- 1
Koob and Severeldj Slmw and Henry. ""'
- w
SARATOGA'' RACING-RESULTS -j"
jr
LITTLE HUMIDITY HERE
Rwo Heights Within Hungarian
Border Taken in Slav
Advance
1
The military situation in the Bal-
6ns draws toward decisive develop
ments. The Bulgarians are. pressed
iftrd by the Allies nt tho center of the
150-mile front, whilo they strive to
jhtck a possible allied move to invade
Bulgaria from the Kavala zone and cut
communications between the allied left
?ng and Italian forces in Albania.
,The fighting is thus in progress in
three separate zones of tho Balkan
prcnt, with tho Bulgars gaining at both
ww vi vuo iinu una me .tviues pressing
forward at tho center. Turkish forces,
irhich are reported to havo been sent
to Bulgaria, aro likely to bo used to
Wp check the allied offensive along the
gfardar River.
iThere still remains a doubtful factor
to the Balkan situation: Rumania. If
Ae lides with the Allies, Bulgaria and
iurkey, pressed from every side, face
jomplete isolation from their Teutonic
Mies and would probably soon be elimi-
MUd from the war. Apparently Riy
jMBia has not vet reached a decision.
ht undoubtedly the. Allies and the Teu-
s both are playing in the Balkans
I Political sramn. with hurra armed
fcrcej as pawns and the 600.000-strone
gpnania army as the prize.
German troona in a series of furious
l&cks south of the rlvnr nn thfi Knmme
went have succeeded In penetrating
'reach trenches at several noints in
fe region of Estrees the communique
mvA . tt.. -n 1- iir rca J..J-..
g---. ujr ma v rencu rur Ullice luuuy
Jits. The nr-Hllfirv rltiflls urn rnr.
fy incessantly on both Somme and
flsesa fronts.
;e Russians have been halted both
fiL the Stokhod River anrl Carpathian
m3' accrdtng to dispatches from
c tones.
Jae Italian War Office reports sue-
in tTlA TinlnrntJ-a A tna nn inA
h. WAWMVw H3l
M iront. Strong Austrian positions
VILLAIN, TITLE
GIVEN M'NICHOL
BY 'UNCLE' DAVE
City Chairman Waxes
Warm in Defending 'Friend
Joe Call'
Temperature Comparisons
of Two Sizzling Days
'NO WORSE THAN OTHERS'
Uncle Dave Lane's Opinion
of McNichol and "Joe" Call
"rTlHE villainous McNichol brought
out my name as a candidate for
delegate last spring. That was the
last time I talked to the villain."
"Joe Call gets into trouble because
ho is so impulsive, but he docs no
worse than other magistrates."
"I have never had anything to do
with Joe's political club."
"Joe has never swerved in his al
legiance to me, and I don't believe
he wants to be ward leader. He
couldn't be n ward leader, anyhow,
because he can't control hjmself."
Tody Teaterday
Midnight 78 83
1 a. m 77 82
2 a. m 77 82
3 a. m 77 81
4 a. m 77 81
f n. m 7(5 81
6 a. m 77 82
7 a. m 79 83
8n. m... 82 85
9 a. m 84 87
10 n. m 88 90
11 a. m 91 92
Noon 92 93
1 p. m 92 94
2 p. m 94 - 96
3 p. m 94 97
4 p. m , 93 96
Humidity at 8 a. m., 70.
Sensible temperature at 2 p. m., 77.
Tim sensible temperature Is the name liven
by the Weather llureau to what It knowe
nUo Ra the water-bulb temperature, 'and It
Inillcntea the heat one actually feele. It
represents the' heat actually In tho human
body, whereas, the ordinary thermometer
temperature makes no allowance for cool
Ins from evaporation. It mlrht be called on
these hot da8 the point of human suffering,
its difference In degrees makes it a psycho
logical benefit. The sensible temperature Is
noted three times a day; at 8 a. m.. 11 p. m.
and 8 p. m.
MAY BLOT REPUTATION
Autoist Told to Light Up;
Three Shots His Answer
Continued an Fate Two, Column Ona
THE) WEATHER
Pfippucn
fw MJ.,r;. , ......
it , iuu6tpi ana vtcmiiy
gSWw sAoicera this afternoon and
??y toniaht: Thuradau fair:
f and leas humid,' gentle west and
1wt winds.
rtu
u.
UQfOTU OF PAY,
5!a m.Mooa rises. . .12.13 a m.
6:4(1 n.m. &rin nutha. ttj)9 a.m.
' IAWABB B1VKB TIDE ClUNQEd.
CHESTNUT STREET.
, -13 a..mJI.ow water. .. 4.3t D.m.
er n-43 a tu.lHll 'water 10:04 p.m.
JgW8TCBB AT EACH HOVU.
. its in i .irr;i i. zr
y5tlaT92T6rMT fl jt
I 4 i c
i
LOST AND FOUND
8?wfrLot e ladies' r:
w JHJb0,i . betw 2k ? &
Bu a Staff Corrttson&ent
ATLANTIC CITT, Ausr. S3. "Th vil
lainous MeNlehol" la tho latest phrase by
which State Senator James P. McNichol Is
characterized by his political associates.
The author of the new title Is none other
than David II. Lane, Republican city chair
man of Philadelphia, and Nestor of the
Republican party there.
Lane'a descriptive title for the Senator
became known -when he, In the course
of an Interview regarding Magistrate Call,
suddenly burst forth in a tirade against
McNichol for defeating him for delegate to
the Republican National Convention In the
primary election.
"Tou know," explained Lane, "I never
presented my own name as a candidate.
JVhat did I want to go to a convention for?
The villainous McNichol brought out my
name-as a candidate, and then a few days
later, when I was In Atlantic City, he
went to Ilarrlsburg and filed Judge Brown's
name.
'I told McNichol that it would be no
feather Hn hla cap If he beat me, since he
controlled six of the eight wards in the
district, but that If I should win It would
discredit him ft lot. And I almost won
at that That was the last time I have
talked to the villain." 4
STILL FRIEND JOE.
Satisfied with his denunciation of Mc
Nichol, Lane contlnuedS the discussion of
Magistrate Call's right to clear himself of
the indictment returned ag-atnat, hira by
the August Grand Jury on a charge of
"unlawfully, willfully and maliciously" ac-
Continued oa fate Two. Coiamn Mrs
Early Peach QroP Ruined, ExjSert Saya
CKALFONT. Pa,, Aug. SJ. From Dr.
John-H. Washburn, dean or the National
Farm School In Bucks County, one of the
most expert authorities on peach culture
jn Penrurylvanl. comes the information that
the early peach crop In this section has
been, ruined a, a result of wt weather
this aprlng and early summer, but that tb.4
lata jJtach erop will aot b iar below ths
averogt,
One death and nine prostrations was the
toll of today's intense heat up to 3 o'clock
this afternoon. There are Indications, how
ever, that the hot wave will be broken before
nightfall. Forecaster Bliss predicts thunder
showers this afternoon or tonight.
The dead:
lins. ADELINA STEELMAN. T2 years
old, 1722 West Norrls street, overcome
In Market street store.
PROSTRATIONS.
HKSSIB COHEN, Jefferson Hospital
flERTnilDB JOHNSON, Jefferson Hospital.
JENNIE TVREI.I.. Jefferson Hospital.
CATHERINE JlacEVOT. Jefferson Hospital.
OATIinrUNE CANNONB. Jefferson Hos-
pltul.
CATHERINE McFEMN. Jefferson Hospital.
FLORENt-'E BAKER. Jefferson Hospital.
Th.K. seen elrls were overcome at the en
velope manufacturing plant of Alvah Oushnell,
SS Filbert street,
OTTO SCHMIDT. BO sears old. of 121 West
nirard avenue. Northwestern General
Hospital.
MILTON EASTWOOD, 62 years old, 248
South Ninth street, Pennsylvania Hos
pital,. Mrs. Steelman was shopping in a store
at Ninth and Market streets with her
daughter, Mabel Steelman, when she was
overcome and fell unconscious to the floor
Deputy Coroner James Watdln, who was In
the store, summoned, a physician, b'ut the
woman died In a few minutes.
The girls In the Bushnell envelope manu
facturing plant collapsed obout the same
time. Four of them were carried to the
Jefferson Hospital by employes and the
others were revived at the plant.
An employe said that shelves which were
built lu. many of the windows kept out the
air and made the temperature Inside as high
as 100 degrees. A representative of the firm
said he could not account for the prostra
tion of the girls and declared that the firm
did everything in its power for the comfort
of the employes.
Many manufacturing plants closed at
noon because of the heat. The girls em
ployed In the WJlllam F. Taubel mill, Cedar
and Huntingdon streets, were allowed to
quit work at 9:30 this morning.
Although the mercury raced close to the
record of Tuesday It was three degrees
cooler at 3 o'clock than the same, hour yes
terday afternoon. The temperature at that
hour this afternqon was 34.
Many take comfort In the fact that
breezes expected from the lake regions are
said to be on their way.
In many business establishments and also
at several building operations workmen
stopped for the day at noon.
ONLY hopo police have to lenrn
identity of murderer i3 that
woman whom he was hugging and
kissing will become conscience
stricken and report the man.
Edward Boland, 24 years old, 186
Calumet street, Falls of Schuylkill,
shot and instantly killed by motor
ist whom he surprises hugging and
kissing girl at roadside In Fair
mount Park.
BolandNwlth crowd of boys, went
to park to "scare" Martin Pinyard,
employe of Philadelphia Country
Club,' by impersonating ghost.
Automobile, with lights out, by
roadside ; Boland tells motorist,
"You'd better light up."
Motorist replies with three pistol
shots, two of which strike Boland' in
side of head.
Motorist speeds away with girl in
unlighted car.
Police have no clue. Number of
car not obtained nor can anybody
describe it.
rlrst race, fillies,' 3-year-olds, $500 nddefl. 5 1-2 furlongs Kath
leen, 121, Connelly,' 0 to 5, 7 to 10, 1 to 3, won; Ima Frank, 100,
rhlllips, 6 to 1, 2 to 1, 4 to 5, second; Miss Puzzle, 114, Keogh, 0 to 1,
2 to 1, 4 to 5, third. Time, 1.00 3-5. ,
$5,000,000 AUTO COMPANY INCORPORATED
DOVER, Del., Aug. 23.Tl0 Parker Collapsiblo Rim Corpora
tion, to manufacture and sell rims and parts for automobiles, was
Incorporated here today with a capital stock of ?5,O00,00O. Incor
porators were Lawrence Angel, Cedarhursf; I,. -.; Gcorgo J. Soden,
New York city'; Sidney S. Lesser and Louise Frankcl, Vooklyn, N. Y.
SENATE PASSES AMENDED ARMY BILL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 23. Tho Senate this afternoon passed tho army ap
propriation bill with an amendment replacing- the articles of war in It, but minus
tho provision which caused tho President to veto it last week.
NEW YORK TRAIN WRECKED AT ERIE
ERIE, Pa., Aug. 28. While traveling; BO miles nn hour, New York Central
Limited No. 20, eastbound from St. Louis, Jammed Into tho rear end of a wrecking
train at the western city limits this morning;. Tho collision hurled passengers tho
full length of tho coaches in which they were riding, slightly Injuring everal. Tho
engine of the wrecker was badly damaged.
STRAIGHT 8-HOUR LAW;
IS NOW THREATENED?
v ,
Railroads Seek Guaranteed
Before Agreeing to
Compromise
COMMISSION FOR PROBE,
What Congress Leaders
Think of Mediation Laws
Representative Adamson:
I don't know when this dis
pute will be settled, but I do
know thuf if it isn't settled soon
Congress will toko a, hand and
pass an eight-hour law.
Majority Leader Kitchin:
In my judgment, it would be
difncultt to put a compulsory
arbitration law through this
Congress1.
Minority Leader Mann:
I do not think it is possible
by legislation to compel men to
labor for certain employers for
whom they do not want to labor
nor to compel employers to em
ploy certain men whom they do
not want. I don't think that is
possible in this country at present.
STATE GUARD TO BE RECALLED FROM BIG BEND
CAMP STEWART, El Paso, Tex., Aug. 23. Repbrts at division headquarters
today regarded ns reliable, but impossible of ofllclal confirmation, havo It that the
two battalions of Pennsylvania troops now nt Big Bend will bo ordered back within
10 dayH. One battalion Is from the Second Regiment, of Philadelphia, and tho other
from tho Tenth Regiment, of the Pittsburgh district
One hope remains with the police of
learning who the motorist was who shot
and killed Edward Boland, 23 years old, of
18(1 Calumet street, Falls of Schuylkill,
when tho youth, with six companions, came
upon the man hugging and kissing a woman
in his automobile in a dark spot on Hairpin
turn, on unfrequented piece of road in
Falrmount Park, last night.
The one hope Is that the woman who
screamed when the motorist shot the boy
will become conscience-stricken nnd disclose
her companion's Identity. They believe
that she, after a night of fright and after
reading In the papers thaf the man she uas
with ltllled the boy, will report at the de
tective bureau with her confession, even
though It may be at the expense of her
reputation."1
PSYCHOLOGY OF WOMEN.
The police know human nature, They
know women. They say that this woman,
at the risk of carrying her reputation under
a shadow, will tell who the murderer Is.
TVomen have done this before, they say.
There is a slight hope that the man may
confess; that he may fear the
confession and
FRENCH FLYER BRINGS DOWN FIFTH GERMAN WARPLANE
PARIS, Aug. 23. The French aviator Dorme downed his fifth German aero
plane yesterday, the TVar Office announces. Northeast of Peronne, French flyers
with machine guns attacked four German planes, which landed behind their own
lines, seriously damaged.
ARCHBISHOP SPALDING'S CONDITION SERIOUS
PEORIA, III., Aug, 23. Physicians attending Archbishop John Lancaster
Spalding admitted today that his condition was serious. Relatives of the aged
prelate havo been summoned to his bedside. The Archbishop, who Is 76, has been
In poor health for several years, but was confined to his bed only 10 days ago during
tho excessively hot weather.
woman s
coincident ruining of her
33.G65 ITALIAN IMMIGRANTS COME IN YEAR
WASHINGTON, Aug. 23. Of the 298,826 immigrants admitted into the United
States during the fiscal year ended June 30, there came from the countries engaged
In the European war tho following: Italy, 33,665; United Kingdom, 24,702; Russia,
7842; Austria-Hungary, 5191; France. 4156, and the German Empire, 2877.
RUSSIA DECORATES VERDUN FOR HEROIC DEFENSE
PARIS, Aug. 23, The Russian Government has conferred the Cross of St.
George upon the city of Verdun In recognition of Its heroic defense. A dispatch
from Petrograd saya a special delegation leaves the Russian capital this week to
present the decoration to the Mayor of Verdun.
GERMAN' STEAMSHIP REPORTED SUNK OR CAPTURED
LONDON, Aug. 23, A Lloyd's dispatch reports that tho German steamship
Pesterro has been Bunk or captured in the Gulf of Bothnia, oft the Hernosand,
Sweden, (Maritime records fall to list the Pesterro.)
Heat Kills Five in Brooklyn
NEW YORK, August 23. Five persons
were killed by the heat In Broklyn today.
There were many prostrations through
out the greater city. On the shady cide of
the street level thermometers degrees read
J90 degrees. Thermometers exposed to the
um ran up to 118. Tho official mark of
the weataer bureau taken on Um top oi the
WcltsiiaU buiWir-s was 90 drgrfa.
Continued on Tse Two. Column Three
KEEPS SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES
AT RAY WITH A PITCHFORK
Outwits Officers by Removing Horses
as They Lock Stable Door
LANCASTER, Pa., Aug, 23. When Sher
iff's deputies attempted to levy on Itzko Mil
ler's two horses last evening he attacked
them with a pitchfork and had to be driven
away with a revolver.
While the officers were sealing the stable
door Miller slipped the horses out Into his
yard and through the house f to another
street, getting away safely. Today they
were found and Miller will be arrested for
larceny.
TROLLEY HITS WAGON; 2 nURT
ENGLISH LINER BRINGS $25,000,000 IN SECURITIES
NEW YORK, Aug. 23. The Cunard liner Saxonla has arrived from Liverpool
with securities reported to be valued at $25,000,000 and consigned to J, P, Morgan
& Co. and other New York banics.
GET RID OF ANIMALS, HEALTH NOTICE TO 20 PIGGERIES
Owners of 20 piggeries in Philadelphia wera notified yesterday by Sanitary
Inspector William J. Woods that they would havo to get rid of the pigs by tomorrow,
or be arrested. The notice was sent at the instance of Health Director Krusen,
who had given warning some weeks ago. Several have carried out the original
order, but most of the owners refused to take the matter seriously until yesterday.
NO MARTIAL LAW FOR IRISH NOW, SAYS ASQUITH
LONDON, Aug. 23. Martial law no longer exists In Ireland, In any real effective
sense, Premier Asqulth has announced.
Car in Accident at Seventeenth and
Cambridge Streets; Broken Glass Plies
Edward G. Rosenthal, 23 years old, 455
Falrmount avenue, and Harry Zimmerman,
25 years old, 2345 South. Camac street, were
severely bruised and cut when their wagon
was struck by a southbound Seventeenth
street car at Cambridge street this morn
ing and they wera thrown to the pavement
In the wreckage of It.
The street car was tilled with women and
men going to work, and broken glass flew
as In an explosion. Some of the passen
gers were slightly cut with the bits of
glass, Zimmerman, and Rosenthal were
Ufcen to St Joseph's Hospital.
NO NEWS OF DEUTSCHLAND HAS REACHED BERLIN
BERLIN, Aug. 23. Berlin Is still without news of the German commerce sub
marine Deutschland, which sailed from Baltimore August 2, Alfred Lohman, director
of the company owning the Deutschland, told the Bremen correspondent of the
Tageblatt today that he hoped the Deutschland would arrive soon.
(The Deutschland made the trip from Germany to Baltimore In 1? days, and la,
therefore, now Ave days behind her schedule.)
ITALIAN STEAMSHIP- AND SAILING VESSEL SUNK '
LONDON. Aug. 23, The sinking of the Ttallan steamship Erlr, of 885 tons
gross, and the Italian salllnff vessel Dea, of 16T tons, is announced by Lloyd's.
BILL AIMED AT SALES OF LIQUOR TO MINORS ON BOATS
A bill has been introduced Into- Congress providing' a fine of 500 for each
offense, cf selling liquor to minors on steamboata on rivers and lakes. It has en
proposed that a publhr-hearlng be held at Washington aoon. The bUl originally
was introduced by Michael Donohoe, of Philadelphia, and later another bill, nunlUw
in form was introduced by Addison. T. Bralth, of Idaho. Recent death oa tb
steamship -President haya givta adtd Uajietus. ta th saovesuujt.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 23. The raiU
road presidents, after a morning's sea-'
'sion in an effort to reach some decision
on the threatened strike, adjourned
until 6 o'clock without taking definite'
action. The financial interests are en-,
dcavoring to reach some plan of accept
ing the President's proposal.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 2J. Legislative,
means of meeting counter-suggestions made
by the railroads of the country In the ne
gotiations to prevent tho threatened strike
wero discussed by President Wilson today
with Senator Newlands and Representa
tive Adamson, of Georgia, chairmen of tha
Congressional Interstate Commerce Com
mittees. After canvassing tho strike situation for
more than an hour with the President, tha
concessional leaders declared that no Im
mediate legislation dealing with the wage'
dispute was expected.
It was understood, however, that the
leaders talked over the possibility of refer
ring the whole problem of legislation to
prevent similar crises in the future to the
recently created Joint Subcommittee on
Railroad Legislation, which has ample au
thority to Investigate all phases of the
transportation problem. Senator Newlands
Is chairman and Representative Adamson
vice chairman of this committee.
The conference was the beginning of ths
consideration of legislative problems con
nected with the strike. The congressional
leaders said they would meet the President
again after he had conferred with the rail
road executives In the strike settlement
negotiations.
UA.WS FOR FUTURE,
president Wilson laid before the congre
slonal leaders suggestions made by tha
railroad executives for the modification of
the President's ctrlke settlement plan. Tha
railroad heads have asked tha President
for assurances that Federal means will b
provided to prevent a recurrence of the
present strike crisis. They suggested that
a Federal commission be created along tha
lines of the Canadian industrial disputes
act commission, which would have author-'
Ity to deal with wage disputes through in
vestigation and publicity. The plan would
pot be in the nature of compulsory abrt
tratlon, and the proposed commission would
have no power to enforce Its awards.
It would simply Investigate and deter
mine the facts, leaving the settlement of
the dispute to public opinion and to tha
sense of justice of the parties to the con
trbversy. Under the Canadian act, tha
commission is allowed a year for Investiga
tion, and meantime the strike Is postponed.
The congresslohal leaders, after the con
ference, said that they were not prepared
to commit themselves on this proposition.
They said the President had gone over tha.
entire strike situation but had made no '
specific recommendations.
"We canvassed this strike crisis." said
Representative Adamson. "Matters have
reached a serious pass and if legislation Is
a
A Hint!
TF you should walk up to
your newsstand or newsboy
tome day and say, 'Glvo me
an Evening Ledger," and ha
replies! "Nothln doln, all
sold," don'( be surprised. That
la what may happen, if you
dpn't order your paper re.
served for you dally. Alter
September i newsdealers, car
riers and newsboy will be un
able to return unsold coplea,
You know what that means
tbey v.-iU order the actual num
ber of copies their cuatiwnws
order of them. Make sura of
ya- Ledger now. Place your
order tedy
fmwwwnmmwt-i
