, - ' I 1
Nfl? wStMfcR FobE3sT
Generally fair to-day, cooler by night;
to-morrow fair and cool.
Highest temperature yesterday, 94; lowest, 77.
flailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 6,
IT SHINES FOB, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 358.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Prtrtflr,; and I'HbHahtnp Asioctailott.
ONE CENT
In flrrater New York,
Jersey t'lty and Newark.
1 Klurwhrre
) TWO I V.ST.
Sstm.
RAILWAYS SPAR
FOR ADVANTAGE
IM SETTLEMENT
Comniittcft of 8 Presidents
Draft Counter Proposal
to Avert Strike.
LANE, GRAY AND MOTT
MEXICAN DELEGATES
SIGHT CONFERENCE
'at THE WHITE HOUSE
Full Body of Transporta
tion Heads 3Iay Act on
Situation To-day.
ADI NOW TO SATISFY
WILSON AND UNIONS
S. Y. Financiers Believed
to Have Advised Yield
ing 8 Hour Day.
Wilmington Judge and N. Y.
Doctor to Aid Secretary in
Pcuco Conference.
WasIIINQTo". Aii. SS. Secretary
Lansing announced to-night that the
American members of the joint commis
sion to undertake settlement of differ
ences between the United Htates and Mex
ico would be Franklin K. Lane, Hecre-
tary of the Interior; Judge George Uray
of Wilmington, Del., and Dr. John It.
Molt of New York city.
The commission will, It Is expected,
hold Its sessions at a New Jersey coast
resort. Tiio time and place of the meet
ing will be arranged by Secretary Lau-sln-t
and Fllseo Arredondo, the Mexican
Ambassador Designate,
Probably the first problem taken up by
the Joint commission will be the nronosed
withdrawal of American troops from
Mexico. As CIen. Kunston haw recom
mended the recall of lien. Pershing's ex
pedition, this Is expected to be agreed
to uy the American members.
ENSIGN GREEN SAFE
FROM ARCTIC PERILS
U. S. Xavnl Officer nt Copen
hagen After Futile Hunt
for "Crocker Land."
tt was announced recently that the
commission would consist of Mr. Lane,
Justice llrandels of the Supreme Court
and another, not named at that time.
Justice Urandeis declined to serve out
of deference. It developed later, to the
wishes of Chief Justice White.
Dr. John It. Mott, who la a close
friend of President Wilson, Is Inter
national secretary of the Young Men's
Christian Association. He went to lon
don In October, 1914, with the object. It
waa said of bringing about peace
through religious Influence. He has been
described as "a one Idea man," the Idea
being "the evangelisation of the world
In one generation.
Judge Gray has been a United States
TUREE YEARS IN SEARCH
Explorer Sends No Word
Whether MacMlllnn or Oth
ers Arc With Him.
CONGRESS PASSES 2 BILLION
MARK IN APPROPRIA T0A5 YICTORY IN DISTANCE
Senate Republicans Charge That It Exceeds in Extrava
gance All of Its Predecessors, Even Allowing
for the National Defence Measures.
Washington, Aug. 22. A day of con
tinuous conferences here by the special
committee of railway presidents has
perceptibly cleared the prospect for the
sdoptlon of a peaco plan which will
avert the threatened tleup of the trjna
portatlon llnca of the United Sta'tes.
There are predictions that an adjust
cent will be reached, although no
definite proposals for the solution of
the problem have been announced.
The question uppermost In the de
liberations of the railroad executives
was not whether President Wilson's
proposal should he accepted or re
jected, but what counter proposal could
U devised that would be acceptable to
the President and to the employees.
All through the torrid day the com
mittee of ( Ight wrestled with this prob
lem it 1th the understanding that they
were to report to their colleagues In the
evening. It Is understood that tentative
Washington, Aug. 22. After having
spent three perilous years In the Arc
tic, Knslgn Fltxhugh Green, the young
American naval officer who represented
this Government on the "Crocker Land"
Arctic expedition, notified the Navy De
partment this morning of his cafe ar
rival at Copenhagen.
How many members of the party have
reached safety with him Is not yet
known. The American Legation at Co
penhagen will take Immediate steps to
assist Green and provide Btich other
means ns practicable for others of the
expedition.
The so-called "Crocker Land" which
Peary believed ho had discovered Is not
referred to aa existing In l'nslgn Green's
report. As this officer went In the ca
pacity of an official Government repre
sentative to survey this land and report
whether tt actually could bo found, his
observation are taken as finally dis
posing of Peary's supposition.
Peary believed he caw the land from
Senator, la u lawyer of note and was
f, "."o? .0f ihe Thl.rd. Clrc,ult of ,he high nltltudes In northeast Greenland, and
United States Court of Appeals. He was ,t was on ,,. lrcnslh f tll8 ,)elcf thllt
Full I .? """"V"10" wh'c t i the Crocker expedition was formed In
. Vi V . I. '""""'""""" June, 1913.
at the end of the Spanish-American war. Th -,,(imnn B., , .lnnVr .h.
He has been the arbitrator of a large
number of Important conflicts, notably
the anthracite strike In 1002. He la a
member of the International Permanent
Court of Arbitration at The Hague.
RUBLEE KEPT JOB
AT WILSON REQUEST
Resignation of Trade Hoard
Member Rejected Despite
Senate's Opposition.
wn
con-.
Joint auspices of the American Museum
of Natural History, the American Geo
graphical Society and the I'hiverslty of
Illinois.
Wnaldn't Give I'p Search,
It develops that Green declined to give
up the search for the elusive "Crocker
lamd" even when almost Insurmountable
difficult! broke up the party anil threat
ened it with starvation. Ill foil that he
was under orders to find It If issble.
and kept up the perilo is sledge Journeys
even under most unfa .-orable condition.
During 1913 and the following year
no word whatever came from the party
and there was growing concern hero and
a demand far a relief expedition. The
Washington, Aur. 2. Expenditures
appropriated or authorised at this ses
sion of Congress amount to more than
1 2,000,000,000, according to figures com
piled by Senator Penrose and read In the
Senate to-day.
Senator Smoot began the attack on
the Administration by referring to ths
total of appropriations. Senator Penrose
said the limit of the "debauch," aa he
called It, could not be gauged by the
appropriations alone. Authorisations
and commitments must also be taken
Into account, he contended.
.Mr. Penrose had figures to show that
tho total appropriation would amount
to 1,71MS2,J22. and that In addition
authorization committing the Govern
ment to expenditures In the future reach
1636,641,97". This gave a grand total
of expenditures appropriated or author
ized at thH) session of 2.347,127.69.
Senator Penrose enumerated these au
thorizations as follows:
New appropriation bill $411,192,027
Sundry civil appropriation
bill 1.S27.000
Fortifications appropria
tion bill 14,100,000
River and harbor appro
priation bill :,724.S0
Flood control bill 60,400.000
Good roads bill, 79,000.000
Senator Smoot produced natures to
show that the present session had ap
propriated In the bills already pssieci
and certain to ias the unprecedented
sum of f 1.630.3S3.682. which Is 1516.446.
671 greater than the appropriations at
tho last session. Allowing for the in
creased appropriations on account of na
tional defence, this leaves the net In
crease over the previous session approxi
mately $150,000,000. Senator Simmons.
North Carolina. Democrat, submitted rr- j
urc-i tending to show a total eomewna.
smaller, but Senator tfmoot challenged It.
.Mr. Simmons declared that he had ob
tained his figures from the Treasury De
partment, and that If there was an Isaac
as to their accuracy It was between the
Senator from Utah and the Treasury of
ficials. The suggestion that the present ses
sion of Congress had authorized the ex
penditure of more than $2,000,000,000
brought several Democratic Senators to
their feet In an attitude of violent pro
test. Senator Williams declared that
the flood control bill had passed the
House, but had not yet passed the Sen
ate and that Senator Penrose had no
right to Include It In the list of ex
penditures. Senator O'Qorman asked Mr. Smoot
(f It were not true that the Republican
LLOYD GEORGE SEES
"Germany Has Missed Her
Chance, and She Knows
It," Says Briton.
DEFENDS SOMME FIGHT
"Losses Deplorable, but Exag
gerated; Relieved Pres
sure on Verdun."
London', Aug. 22. David Lloyd
George, Secretaiy for War, speaking In
the House of Commons to-day con
trasted what he termed the cxtraordl
. ZLTv M C h xn dl 1 chnwee cnupto of months In
snT 'bWpr'l;. relative I-"'.-
O'Oorman. "that most of the Republican
Senators voted for these appropria
tlonsT"
(ialllnger's Memorandum.
lies and tho Central Powers on nil the
fronts except Mesopotamia, where cli
matic conditions had kept the British
forces quiescent
THREE DIE OF HEAT;
17 ARE PROSTRATED
Temperature Readies 91,
a Season Record, but Hu
midity Is Low.
Ninety-four degrees was the new heat
record for the year set yesterday, top
ping by one degree the record of July 31.
It was the same hot spell that filtered
Into New York from the north central
Htates a day before, and yesterday It re
sulted In three deaths and seventeen
prostrations.
The deaths were nil In Brooklyn and
the victims were John Ilond. 2 yearH
old, of 371 Cumberland street; Harold
Scannell, 19, of 408 Thirteenth street,
and Hohokus Zucres, 46, of 3 Carrol
street,
George Dillon of 1939 Madison ave
nue, an Ironworker employed by the
Third Avenue Railway Company, was
overcome by tho heat while working on
the Third avenue elevated structure at
l-;ignuc:n street unit fell to inc pave- ,
ALLIES ON BOTH
FLAMS ROUTED
BY BULGARIANS
British and French (jain
Only in Centre of Great
Battle Line.
WINGS NOW IN PERIL
ISKEPOKT ATFROXT
Senator Oalllnger drew out his mem
orandum book and inrormeii me break through tho German lines, were
ator from Nework that ;eenl "? unjustified. The Germans, said Mr.
gresslve Republicans voieu ior .c ... Uoyd (!or(.Pi h.lX(1 i,,,,,, fort.,.(i to brlife
trate plant appropriation and that eigm t001!) u1(, Kmis fri)m v,ir(lmi , ,ircVcnt
had voted for the armor plate plant. ,n ,!rlt!sf) rro, br(.aktlB through.
rw K.nntnr condemn those Re- . .. " r,.
publican Senators for voting as 'j!' ,''' I Secretary continued. "It relieved the
pressure on Verdun and prevented the
ment. Dr. C'tinnltiKliam. who was sum-
.t.n.1 r.n... t-......i. tlnu.itt ! fmiml
Mr. I.Iovd George said that criticisms ,,,, )lc micotl)(.UM ma, hu,i MifTered
of tho llrltlsh operations on the somme i-nntuslons of the head and removed him
noni. on mc ground or ineir luuure i ... .i.. ho,,,!!,,!
on these measures:" Inquired Senator
O'Qorman.
"I am not condemning any one, re
plied Mr. Oalllnger. "They belong to
the group known as Progressive .Sen
ators over here."
Senator O'Oorman and Overman in
sisted that Republican Senators on the
appropriation committee had not pro
tested against tne appropriation.
enemy from pouring his forces Into the
Russian theatre to support the Austrlans
against Gen. llrusllofr's thrust.
Losses Are I'.xnKRrratrd.
"The German accounts of our losses on
tho Somme are ludicrously exaggerated.
Our losses, though deplorable, have been
STEEL HITS 97 1-2 IN 1 RECEIVERSHIP FOR
A RECORD MARKET
uenuiiiu jjr n reuei cxin-umuo. i tir .
well known explorer Dr. Hnvey was In ! SlllcS 1,:W0,000 SliarCS, l!M6
charge of the first attempt to relieve the
iiign jinrK, as rears i
Rail Labor Trouble Fade.
expedition, which was made In 191fi.
Ills relief thlp. the George It. duett,
got as far as North Star Hay In
September, but encountered unsually se
vere Ice conditions anil this, together
Wasiiinoton. Aug. 22 President
Fnfi n InttA la nnnu Mi'o tiim fits
'" o " '"''J' that .tinned service of Oeorg? Ruble, on lh SlMrXK!
rruer.u irane i.ommiftsion nner
donate hid rejected his nomination. placed at his disposal by Knud Rasniu
v m.ucmem Huumuieii in ine ncnaie ten. the Danish cvploi it,
The tariff debate got under way In . relatively low a compared with those of
the Senate to-day. It Iooks n me inn uerniaus. i no rrencn nnu ourselves
war revenue bill may be disposed of havo captured positions on tho Somnie
this week. Senators Simmons, Thomas. front wIiviiip the course of the cam
Penrose, Smoot, Curtis and Williams palgn Is visible, and I think In the dim
made speeches on the bill. " distance we can see tho end.
There Is nothing ele before the Sen-, "France Is equipped and Russia Is
ate and the leaders confidently predict rapidly In-coming equipped, Italy's equip
ti.ot iho hill will be hurried through ment has amazed her best friend", ller-
and adjournment taken before the end many has missed her chance and sdie
of next week. I oow- h. u whuiu no a inisxaKo 10 un
derrato the rutin c of our task, which re-
-tr.nl.-nu .,11 nf our t osinir.'os. Hilt Mllrv. v
Inc the whole situation, and upon the
iidvli o of those more competent than my-'
self to express an opinion, I do not hesl-1
i.-iic i" say mat wnai huh rouniry arm
h.-r allies have to do Is to march to
gjthor . ti adlly ami work together loy
ally .i tli. v have ilono 111 tho part to In
Mire tliat victory Will test on their ban
uei.s." Clinrehlll la Pessimistic.
Col. Winston Spencer 'liur.-li III. for-
nieily Fiist Loid of the Admiralty.
! opened the debate In the House of Com
mons to-day on the conduct of the war.
Hn said there was no certainty of a
t speedy emllng. German armies were
i more numerous and better equipped than
tor I ever. He urged.
Landing of First
Russians at Salon ica
Arouses Greece.
0,000
FIVE NATIONS NOW
TO FIGHT Til KTKLTONS
The temperature yestetday climbed to I
91 degrees, but the humidity did not k)
above 63, This was the mark tt at
tained at 8 A. M., when the thermometer
showed 80. Its lowest figure. At 8 o'clock
the mercury began rising and si
multaneously the humidity look to de
creasing. Hoth these movements con
tlnud until 3 P. M., whin the heat wai
at 94 degrees and tho humidity, which
had gone down to 33 an hour before,
hwelled to 40,
From then on the measuring Instru
ments reversed their progress, as the
tf mperature dwindled and the humidity
rose, uy ., o clock the thermometer rea
I.I..A.I U. ...1.1 !, I..I...I.II... nl.w1 -1 I
The temperature at In o'clock last '"'" rupiuiy in mo h.iiujii ine-
nlght was 77 degrees, a drop of seven atro to-day, events hurrying forward
degrees from the mark set at 10 o'clock , ,, . . , i.... ,.
Monday evening, when the thermometer lojr'1 ,l,p tT!lf,h hM '"" ll',ve il
registered M degrees, making the hottest profound effect upon tho outcome of
Greeks Said to Have At
tacked Bulgarians, in
Entente Compact.
Pauls', Aug. 22. The drama nf war
night recorded by the Weather llureau
during the past fifteen years.
SUBWAY BLAST JARS
BROADWAY SHOWS
BOSTON AND MAINE
Road Will Not Fight Petition,;
It Is Said Cannot
Pay Debts.
Frightened Audience (juietcd
by Malinger Explosion Calls
Engines and Great Crowds.
the world con tl let.
In tho actual lighting the honors
were with tlm Hulgar, who, tln
Flench Ofllci; admits, swept forward on
both the extreme right and the ex
it erne left of lb" Allies' line until, mino
military critics say. the flanks nn In
peril. In the i-eutie mily the etory
was different ami the AIIIcn pingtted.
A profound sensiitlou was caiisul In
the Ilalknn, and mole partirtil.nl In
Greece, by tho arrival of the lliis'lan
ndvancei cuntlngeiil which was as
signed after u lonfcteiun of the allied
commanders to Join the reorganized
Serbian nrmy on the frontier of Serbia.
The Greeks are described as. viewing
they lll he considered by the railroad
li'jds Individually before they ore taken
up at the full meeting of the executives
to-Burruw.
r.n.riimiis drallnift lii veitcrday'a stock i Boston. Aug. 22. Receivership
ig tne vessel aim uuempiiiiK iu pno-1 - - - . . - .. j . .... ... . ....... i. or,.ie,i fnr
ceed further north on n motor launen muikci. mo toiai ovi-,nrs or,K . , ..,,, ...... .,.,.,. ... , ' co conmanles. three hook and ladder-
heaviest lor any nay tnis year nnu ru o ...c o .-. war bash He ,.Kn teenmmended n bntialh rhlef and n flro patrol U
' l f i ann nno aliares. carried Knslat'.d States and t.'annda, was asked . the eli.irioilm? nf nit shlimlnc- at Ailiol. I the s eno ntid kent the nolh o bnv for
r-w- hlrh levels on the current for In a bill In equity filed In the I'nlted rally rate
A mine than usually eevore blast In'
the new- Mibwav excavation at llroad
wsv and Fortv-fourth street, at tho en-1
trance to the Criterion Theatre, last bitterly the Hliectuclo of Russian tmoixi
il. that the country should j night knocked over n fire alarm box, I disembarking lit Salonlcn to p.irtlcl
fnr a long war and that 1 turned In an alarm, brought four on- .onto tl the campaign iiml can y on
the work In which their own aimy
on a war nasls no hn teenmniendeii a nnnauiss rniei ami n lire piuroi to . . . ,...., it li nl , i , hw
rouferenee nt While llnnse.
President Wilson conferred for an
hour tn-night with Hale llolden, presl
il'nt of tlio ('hlcago. Hutllngton and
yulnrj K.tllroad : R. S. Lovett, chairman
efthe I'nlou pacific, and Daniel Wlllatd.
h'l of the llaltlmoie and Ohio, who
mt to tho White House at 8 :30 o'clock.
The meeting was held ut the request
tt the railway otllclals, who have not
lii an opportunity of discussing with
tlii Prescient the situation In detail or
"f presenting to him personally their
Mews of the possibility of a settlement,
lifretofure the huge number of railway
iftielals present made Intimate dlcus
rk'ii lm.OFslbic and little opportunity
whj dfforded to comment upon the Pres
ident's .is rtions.
It Is understood that the chief object
f the v.slt to the White House was to
Hfk the President to state specifically i
U hi expeeteil the railroads to make
vp 11 e millions of dollars which the man-
fitwl'iv liv f h.llmiAM llltstev nf tho mn. . . i...t. i,n ,......1
mission discloses that Mr. Itublee ten. .1.- .......n.'i.'. i.. .11.. nr e,-i ,.,) prices to new high levels on the current
neied his rcslgnat'on on August 1 1 , nuiTcriiisr many hardships, ltoth Hreen ) upward movement, with United States 1 States District fourt here to-day.
t'r.t on Amut 3 the President wrote to,.,,,,) n,. Kt n touch with Ir. llovey. ' s;lce common reaching a new record at This action. In widen the Intercontl.
111 in as ituons: I and toeether they started back toward .... .. .,., , j,..in nrrior frotn 1 nental Ifiiwjer I ompany or ew Jersey, ,1. iixehenuer not to nerinlt tln.inelal
UU Hear Mr. Hubtrr: the vessel at North Star Itay. Ice had C ' u" ' which holds a note of the road for $61.- cieratlons to stand In the way of
It Is with the most genuine regret c0sed In on the ship at Parker Snow all parts or tho coutur. . noo, appears as'the petitioner, was taken providing llus'ta to her utmnst needs,
that I received your letter of August jay an, she was nf no further use to There was intense excitement around with the consent of the directors of the Premier Asqtilth was linked If be
1 i.-ourrioK your resiuii.nioii as rru- thc relief party. She was ananooiien steel post throughout the session. i"-nn .ion .m.iioo, u uourrsmoo, woiilil sumnioii I'ailriinent iliniiig the
when It was seen that tho h-e would .... ., . ,k crriSjierl 96 In thc fore-' The hoard of directors, which for tvo coining recess If proposals were made
I epil 1 oiiik mm- .i j'lim,
The Premier said he could not undt-
In I to par In tho current week, while in the lon to-day to consider Its procedure In take to do so,
nearlv an boor forelnr iho curious crow d eirrnu ine uu 1 no, ..... .
Tlio long oasioru front, fol. 1 'hilrchl'.l ' of thevrecoors awav from the scene ize mat tins pins 1111 run ui un- .iic.iin
atgucd, was tho most vulnerable. On Incidentally it blocked tho ('.roadway of a greater t .recce,
that account ho utged the ('h inciter of ami Seventh avenue surface cars for flf- ., . , . . ...
eral Trade Commissioner, and I am
going to ask If you will not be gener- I h her nl Dr. llovev. toeether with I "mu ' vears has !een trying to effect a reor-
ous e'nough to withhold thc reslgna- ,..,. n.,,1 Allen, faced starvation, as I noon wagers were ma.le tnai 11 wouin go gHIftt0 of the system, was In ses-
tlon for the present at any rate, and
continue to serve on the commission
as long ns It is possible.
I know how highly the Commis
sioners value your counsel and co
operation, and 1 rhare, as I hope oti
know, their high estimate of our
work and ervlce. I hoi that you
will not insist upon the Immediate ac
ceptance of your resignation, which I
am very loath Indeed to accept.
Cordially and sincerely yours,
Woodrow Wilson.
Mr. Rublee was rejected by the Senate
nrovlslons by this time had inn out.
the quest for food thc party separated.
Perilous MeilKe Journey.
Rnslgn fireou and Allen next started a
toon minutes.
Patrons of the Criterion, who had Just
gatheied to oe the show, were frlzht
ened by tho shod: and many hastily lef' '
the theatre The others were calmed
b the management, which explained'
the sltuitlon, but -.everal s'andlng
111 line to buy tickets deserted their
posts ii ml refused to j turn, inner the-,
1 atres In the vicinity were alarmed by
subsequent operations, with the price connection with I13,rinrt,noo of Indebt-
moving alsive 9.. many trailers were e.ines railing clue August .n. .uter n r yy; It' 4 A SAYS VIVIAXI the blast. ... were guests at the Clarldge detachment, sent to dol.iv
iin-l .vs-or uoiois. siaieti 111.11 10" '.ieii .iin 1 . .0
a.emeni say It will cost them to put into "7 "i" L". WKnl . C- "f"'"
,h ghi hour day they are asked Jim jr "UI"' '
t. nra.it. What the President said In 1 t ''"' !r- J"b. f' ". TO.,"!e ' ?. "
r.nlv .... t ,, ...a I'rogrcssive jiepuoiicao, oui no
Democrat and that the Prttddent had
violated the Jirovlslon In the law creat
ing thc commission by falling to give to
the mlnoilty places called for by the
law.
The Senate 1 ejected Mr. Rublec In
.May, but he continued to serve as com
willing to go on record with the predlc- long meeting the directors decided they
tlon the Issue would not stop Its upward had "reached the end of their rope," In
...ei .r,lr.V loornev across Melville course this sine 01 u. ueauiina sin.- me worn 01 one ni toeir nimioer. nmi
Vi .1 with to object of .wihiiC HOUtli 're heavy on the adva i-sued tho following statement through
n -1 so? i , , I'll vslcal eon- were quickly gobbled u. . ( President J II. Hustls;
eru Danish ""I""- . ' K ''V, (lfV t In February. IMS. Steel common sold "In the opinion of the directors of the
dltlons caused Dr. llove to stop otT at ' aivlde.,,1 bad llostoo n.l Maine Railroad It Is Inev.
been passed and the corporation was pedlent to attempt a further renewal of
compelled to draw on Its surplus to make the notes falling due August 31. A
up the dividend on the preferred. The creditors' petition for a receiver ha
common stock Is now on a E per cent, been tiled In thc I'nlted States District
annual basis, an extra dividend will be Court, and In due time tho Hostou and
paid In September and earnings for the Maine will file Its answer thereto."
stock are nt the rate of about 40 per Tills answer. It was Intimated to-night,
er..,lrl l.O m:.ll W'HOin TOO WOOk.
Tho Russian foi.e eventual. will
number n.i It I ,iseri.'d I'r t h.
Flench, Sol In in, Italian ami Ituss an
troops will soon be lighting sale by side
against the Central l'woi.
it Is icpoiteil that a lim-k "bv "ion
at Sties ofteie.l battle t tin llii.gars
who weie advamlng toward tlm M'lin.i
River, beating back the Allte.v a.li . n.
them. It is
Cape York and tho two young American
naval men set out in sieuges ior i.t
mundc, In southern (ireenland.
Ily tills time It was evident that only
quick action could bring relief cither to
the main nart of the expedition or tho
I first relief party which had ".one to sue-
e,,r It. The "Crocker i.auo romniin
nhmI. Heretofoie, accoullng to the rull
lead men, .Mr Wilson has dealt with this
I'hw of the subject only In the most
tttieral terms.
Action (....not lie Postponed.
Although some of the sixty or more
muri.nl. - - . ... i-e.n :i CMr.
a Wilson I'"1' steamer leiimark m soiiii erii , (ra(1( ,H R b fartnr ,n t))f Whether any Incidental action would do
C.reenland to meet the expected emer
gency. When w-oi.l reached the Navy Deiart-
ment to-day that ilreen had reported his
current strength of the general stock velop meantime was uncertain, although
market. In yesterdays trading, how- indications were not nicKing io-mgni
Victory Certain, but Conner
I'rem-li Premier 1'rne More r.fforl.
Pains. Aug. 12. A .1:111. -lilt and pro
longed stiuggle befote the war Is end-d
was prophes:..! to-diiy b Minister '
.lusilce Vivianl, foiiueily Premier. In an
address . fole tho lietier.ll CotilU'll
the Department of Ciotise he sa.d. "Al
though vlctoiv Is , ertaln, it will require
( bard ai d prolonged efforts to break
Prussian militarism."
1 Speaking before tho lienor il Colin-' I
of tho 1 .opartlneut of the Allbe, lllenvell I
Martin, fornieily Minister ef .lii'i!
said . "Tho French will not submit t.
ever, speculation was stla.ulaled by all that certain Interests of the leased lines i '' '''''J'"? 1 !!'. . 'V.Vr'-o b s idver's 11 l-s
the strong basic factors In thc general had virtually decided to contest a pro.
nr.ll-u'l nt Conenhngell the general i i, ..,,,, .,,. ...... mll,.h vllninlile.l hv ,,f ree'elvershln.
belief wo expressed that Donald 1 Wall Street advices from Washington! President Hustis, who left for Wash
xi .eMllt.m. the ex.-iluter. and otheis will,.,., there would be no railroad strike. . Inu-ton Immediately after the directors'
ires.ilems are showing tt disposition to mlssloner without salary. Senator tlal- be found with him, or that ho will l' lt;tltrc.t.t shares were strong and active tneetlng. refused to amplify his brief
1 rowing tne negotiations In the hope linger thereupon Introduced a resolution : ul.lei to eunply tho necessary iniormaiiou .features. The railway equipment Issues . formal announcement, une or tne ntrec-
tli.it the sentiment of business men of In the Senate culling for an explanation for their rescue. I moved up and most of the war stocks, j tors, however, said the decision not to
the coui.try w II be shown to be opposed und the communication from the chair-1 Coincident with the Indications that with the exception of tho motors, ad- sk for further extension of the notes
b- the Idea of nn eight hour day, there man of tho commission shows that Pn-sl- i.;Mt,En il recti failed to find any trace 1 vanced to better figures. vva reached "because the road's condl-
gsiierai feeling to-night that a .lent Wilson in responsiuie ior neejuiiB . Crocker I.ind It was teamen 111:11, 11.1us.ers apparently approve.! 01 me , tlon Is sum inai 11 cnunoi pay us 111-
omn.te aiibwer to President Wilson's Rubles in the face or the s,en.v,e s action. 1 ttilM land will no longer figure on tin" upward movement. inueeu, iney ex-
netnaad cannot b.i much loneer nost. ' Chairman Hurley contend mat tnis 1 ,,.,.,. t .he Hvdrnciantilc liMlce. In hlblted decided satlstacllon over ttie
wrci.
1 boastfd he would fur.
I to accept peace on bend.-d knees."
ALLIES DESTROY 35 "ZEPS."
s'.,r
The blast oo lined at stIS, Jilt when ..uilters Issued older.-, ti. the tlio.-k
Itroadway at th's point is blocked with troops ut Seres to utile. I.il.r Ho- ti t
its heaviest tratlle. Daniel Madden, an was made public that th" Cnl.i, l'o.
oinphnoe of 'he llolbrouK. caisn, inn
lins Corporation, tlio contractors, afler
.preparing th" blast ut.der the sidewalk,
canie out to warn po.h-stii.iiis away with
a rod Mag. Hut Hro.olway folk, being
used to blasts, Isnoud his warn. tig and
1, rushed past ins-ft the tire alarm box
went over with the .iiiieulou.
I Then those at the exact spot tied, fear-In-
the street and sidewalk might cave
In They weie met by other- rushing to
be spot' to see what was the trouble,
.soon a big crowd was surging about the
id ice when the tire apparatus came tear-In-
to til" scene, adding to the ionfusi.ui
HOUSE ACCEPTS ARMY BILL.
Is entirely i legal, He points out that f.,,. recent charts have omitted It e-lncc advance. Higher prices will help the
Th I'resi.ia.. .t ... Mr. Rublee'a was a iccess appointment
JmllcatM that he desired his proposals having been sent to th e Senate on March
I fully ileh.ited bv the executives but 151!;' Mr- llu""ley says that the
tHr ,on rl ' .s ,"C.Uhi President un.ter the Constitution has the
have 11,., t ... V... V.. ' .. .. . power to till all vncanclui that may
among
"tspUn llk.lv . ! nn .. ' happen during a recess ot l ongres ,,y
s-.. .' . . 1 ernnt nff entnmissions "wnicn snail ex
........-.,..,..,.1.... iieiuisen of .North I a- I insinuation or me mass 01 souci unesi
kota who Is. iroatlv Interested in the ex- tnent securities on bankers' shelves.
' V . ' . . . .. . Xl.i.iev- l.elnir .v.r.ni. v .unv. the HOOOOl.-t.
nod t on. Insisted tne i.overnineiu so.eie. -, r. : 2 . . ' .. .
.. hi ...mnmo.tlnn came of Peary'B ! live element lo.ms tor iiirwier
iiel.ledness. and because of the proba
bility that It would be covered with at
tachments which would tie up Its hu.
pess IO llie ueiiiinrt.i v.. Lnwimp.
discovery.
"Crocker Land Is n dream,'
Ilelgesen to-niglit.
said Mr.
Penry Heportrd Illscovery.
Admiral Peary reirted his discovery
of a new continent upon his leturn fiom
tho Arctic legions in l'Jilrt. Ho said he
had seen a field of mountains through bis
K'..ises from Cape Thomas Hubbard, the
tint them limit of Axel Holburg Land.
do- i,, Mm-. 1910. ho wrote In the ,1 mrrlcnii
WROTE MAYOR; IN BEIXEVUE.
Valerian Holy t'oimilnlued Also to
Wilson About Ills Mull.
Charged with annoying Mayor Mltchel
far k iv... eiir, l"
wua.li.eus, the situation to-nlghrtheT ''lro al the end of the next session,
aie Intl.to't upon nn arbitration of
with';1.1'1 kou,' ,1,,y anrt 0,lier '"ueH . WIFE MAY PICK OWN FRIENDS.
"n tr.e irnployees. As the conferences 1
tontlMMl ,(,,.,. )esa (llllt of actl(m
M"h ould i.-.nl to a strike, but noma t Magistrate Hules Husband fan t
t fill exeeutnes arc expected to tight Ker, nCP . for Himself.
Hie last , .i, ,,ny ,,ia whch wou,i ..... . , ...
"fee nn eight hour .lav uton the roads I Magistrate John Kochenderfer In Ihe
without fooio r,,.n, e !,ri.i.V,..inn 'Flush ug Police Court, yesteriiay Hf-'in Mav.
u is stii gonei.-tlly believed that the elareu mat a marneu womiui nas u riKiu j;mimn joiinuil witu rami unsiiaiieni
road w i' yi, i hut not before the rail- to pick her own company, providing her -The exploration of Ciocker Land
rw4 off, in-, make every effort to gain companions arc respectable. Joseph May- rHslly takes first limit among problems
l"t they an iii ihe way of concessions era of Maipeth complained that his wife , ,iemanillng exploration, now that the
irr-m tin; I 'i s ,,.,t's Hssuraures of legls- would not obey him and keep awny from lmc has been reached and the Insulin Ity
''the did or of an Increase of fielght a woman friend who resides next door. nf uri-enlnnd has been determined,
f'tss t', cinif.ens.-it.. them for the sacrl- "You can't expect a woman to remain I ,n,i further than this, should this land,
hiv Ivi.l ., n, ,ir.iin nf ih eichi In lb., house all da ." said the Magls- ti, distant mountain peaks of which I
' rate "During the time I have been on I fortunate enough to so,, from Cape c ', ' 0H 'am
.Th- pr,.,,,,,, , f0r,. the executives Is the bench I luie discovered that there Tnop,as Hubbatd In July. 1906. prove to h era . ml si j I i k h,,0enw1nhd.
Hvlmikiy f.. , rom!tx t0 1)0 ettied are a great many men Jealous of their ,e n land of large extent, thc possibilities t w111"" w'r 1,1 ,k lonspirurj io wun
.U f.r 1. K.t M... ... ..... .. . I ...ran, t.,e. T n ,1 VA .III ...... .... mi.u. tll.ltPin... I.1P HIll'I. .1.11.1 Will .
,- 1 nioy nave many intcresis wives aim " ,,, c ,,,.-, n, .-. .
'V'0" d.r n.ni t.ro are many con- house." I become the gateway to other bin 's or seas
.us "!-...( ,,iu to ! hi.rmmi zaiI he.
activity
Iii the Stock Exchange, with a growing
public interest In the market.
DANIELS IN FIGHTING MOOD.
Secretary Will "Answer" Repre
sentative r.ardnrr'a .Navy Question
Washington', Aug. 22. Secretary
Daniels and Representative liardner,
llrllisli xorlnl I'.xprrt Ansiiers
I rlllelsm In ..onions.
I.omsin, Aug 22 Major Maild. rep.
resentathu of ihe Aerlil Koaid In the
House of Commons, t. plvlng in th
House to-night to criticism of the a1'
defences during the recent Zeppelin lillds,
' aniiouiued that since the war Peg.in t.ie
llnteiite Allies had accounted for thirty-
tlve Zeppelins.
I "Thoie have been thirty-four raids nn
llngland," said Major ltaiid. "Ill ten of
which no casualties were suffered, wbl.e
In Ihe reuia.idei' the number of Kill.' I
was :t:st civ ill ins i ml tlfy mllltaty m.'-t.
Nbod can sa that these casualties, ,e-
iilorable as lliev are. lll have any In
Measure s,.il t Seimle Wlthont
lie vised Articles of War.
Wasiiinoton. Aug 22 After the
ii....s.. I....I ii. ntt.l to-day the $.111,.
Ollll.nil.l allllV ilVPriipfianoil mil wm...u. tle question
the li'Vlsed aiticb's of war, a feature of ,:1ty that til
vvhli h caused 1'iespient Wilson to veto
the ine.isilie, It vva" hastened to the Sen
ate and there leferml to the Mllltaty
Committee.
I . 'Pali mail Clianiboilalu nnuoiinced to
' night that the committee would meet to
' oiid restoie the nl tides if war,
clmlu.itlnir the Hay proposal to tvoiit I . lt s ,,,sunied that louipielo n
Massachusetts, have begun another row I ti,,ence on the conduct of the war, pin-
over tho navy. Mr. Daniels Is now In u
fighting mood, getting In trim for Ills
campaign speeches, and Is professing a
willingness to "have It out with Mr.
(iardner at any time or place In any
form of debate which would best suit the
Massachusetts representative,"
Mr. (iardner said to-day ho would
'tent. T
1 answer Is given to the Presl-
i.i) Hiey weru III communlca
-hn cbnrired with falling . r. nrosonted bv tho lnrgc blank spaces On
to' provide for his Wife, was placed on the maps between the north pole and
!., xi rs Muver sad she was
"" l'h iii. nbers of the New York obliged to leave her husband because bo
"aiiiiiil gi.i, hos Inlluence Is potent J would not permit her to nssoclate with
.iff.urs, From the trend
rallrc.nl
' in- st... naiketithe deduction la
' "" ui W.i hingtnu' that tho threat
n.lro.ni .ataclysni Is receding Into
- miner ,i i p.s-to.
Wl.liriiil,,,, .,n C.iiitlnue.
""' Kirfaee the dlscuss'on of arbl
lt.,?' R,'1 "' 'liout Interruption. On
n I ''to'herhoods a statement
(f ii. " "'" '""'ting that tho stand
to a. f? f"r '""''Itratlon was made
in in., pi, .s,.lt case only, that they
trail. "'"' "fused to neoepl mb.
ratio,, p, ,.. ,,aKl m , ,a1. arlH ,lf
oinn, win i n,.Kr ini.or prt-donil-(tm.
s.-t ila-niM-lu-s absolutely against
fH'iinn - who also forthcoming
""; "lues indicating that tho
""Or is .ittjkonlng to the seriousness
Im ContniKtU on Third Pagt.
other people.
NEW BOTTOM HOUSE MYSTERY.
(successor oC Poisoned Farmer Also
Dosed With Arsenic.
OMAN. N. Y.. Aug, 22. The Ruffom
"poison farm," where Willis Uc.fom mid
hhi daughter died of arsenic poisoning,
for which lite wife was sentenced to
twenty yeurs In prison, lius another and
almost Identical case now. Physicians.
In attendance on Klmer lllotner, who has
occv.iled the farm slnco lluffom's death,
have notified Dhtrlct Attorney Luldlaw
and Hherlff Nichols that the man's con
dition Indicates tliut he, too, is suffcrln-i
from antenlc poisoning.
lllotner's wife believed the water on
the farm might b rnonlbl, but n
analysis dlsprovsd aucU a UtaorjC.
llerlnir Strait."
In the fall of 1MI when word came
back from tho Mac.Mlllan expedition tli.it
Crocker Land had not been found, Ad
miral Pearv refused to be convinced.
Jerome U-e Allen, thn wlieless opera
tor who accompanied thn MacMlllnn ex
pedition, returned to New York yester
day on the steamship Helllg (Mav of the
Scandlnavlnii-Aiiiericnn Line. He said
that provisions ran low last Januiry
aiid Drs. Hovey and Tanqtierny and Kn
sign (Ireen led a party In quest of food.
They reached ICgedesmunde, an F.squlmo
selttlement, after a thousand mllo Jour
ney, during which they subsisted chiefly
on pemmlciin. On reaching Copenhagen
they chartered tlio relief steamship Den
mark to bring buck the rest of the ex
pedition. Meoator da Ponl Renamed.
Doveii, Del,, Aug, 22. Col, Henry A.
dil Pont was renominated for the United
States Senate at the Republican State
convention to-day.
for several weeks with letters, a man
who said he waa Valerian Holy, it, of
in" Fast Seventy-second street, was ar
raigned before Magistrate Krotcl In
Yorkvllle Court yesterday. Tho man
was sent to the psychopathic ward of . .,,,,.,,,1 (l varies of questions for Mr.
Hcllevuo Hospital for observation. I innieB to answer In an address he Is lo
According to I.leut. I-.nrlght of the , loVer Friday at Jacksonville, Me, lie
First llranch llureau, Holy had been j w) deliver an address Thursday at
sending letters to President Wilson, See- Wpt,t Sullivan, Me., and will propound
ritary uiiuieis ami me i-osinuisier-i.eii- tn(, questions nt mat lime, in order lo
oral, complaining of the non-delivery of j Ktvo jlr. Daniels a chance to prepare nn
nnswer Mr. liaruner sent mo questions in
the Navy Department to-day,
Secretary Daniels said lie had received
them and would answer them to-morrow
for the "forty-second time."
viilcil the honoi able members of tit.
Douse do not give utterance to such I.I
chosen statements as have been made hi
the House of Commons to-l ight.
"Lord Fien.li has a very complete sys.
torn of air defence and It Is being Im
proved dally, while the Ilrit.sli lljlng
corps has a iccord superior to any other
nation."
TEUTON "PAPERS" ONLY BOOKS.
...iii.d otllceis and men fiom the lim
itary cede, thc provision objected to by
the' President. If a point of older is
made and sustained against the articles
In the S'-nate Mr Cli.unbei lain will seek
to i.taln them by n two-thlrds vote.
Il.-pieseiitnt.ve lla has let It bo Known
that be will not Insist nga.n
amendment.
i er.s have mad ' a written eiiL-ag. i ' i
witll l.leeie lilt to enter the towiu of
Seres, Drama and Kivala
' Tl''-y are the most import H t t..ns
In that portion of .astern M. .filoi a
which was ceded to ijiec.-e at tile I t.ise
ot the llall.au wars Kavala is an
i .llgean se.lpolt. The otllcls ate lllla'al
Alliens Is lei'Hteil 'ttui'll . , ite.l mer
1 tlio elah. and ncwspipeis tli.ie ate
tifeiring to the "lieioi. divisou of
, Sens."
I It.i.onolu lmot Won.
I All this is having Us .It.ct on Itu-
' mania. A .iil.iig to Into: mat. on fiom
I sources which uuall are ti ust w m t li
I 111, mania never was so close l.ef.ne to
Joining the Allies with In r mi. I
I tr.iis, all In splendid condition after
loiin piepiiatlon Meetings ,i e In
nrogress at Hueh.iret winch, it is
agreed by diplomats hue. w.l. do lib
it is eonsidei ed a c.
bio a st tuck bv tne Uni
tarians and their alius wis p. ann. I
caiefulb in the hope tint li. t.il s I.-.
loses in, .tilt inlluclic.i liuinatiiiii d -cNion.
It has become known that the It illan
contingent which li.is b.-.-u landed nt
s.iloulca Is of Important pi p.,i lions,
ivo
on his
political agreements have been airiiige.1.
as it has been iinderstooil tliat ItaH
has been keep'ng out ot the It.ilK.in.s
heretofore out of eonslderatio- to
liu-ek setisibllltli s over the pudnm'
n nice nf Italian InlHlelicc in the cis'tiii
Medltet raiieiin,
The l-'rinch War Mil. e ado t to-
.night that "at the cost of voiv heiw
i losses" the Rulg.it tans have been .i''u
to advance on the riuit and bit 'Pi.
1 Serbians seoqi to have sulTried ho-iviest
...... ...i. i...... In v iii okr l this fighting, Ahl.-h Is pi. .ninii.
Mill VAorll. ( In "m"K' , , ,, ,,,.,-nsiv " the Allies will.., d
lit Arbui'Ule Plant Fire, when the aimles of th" live nation- an
the most uncomfortable tires un on mv ei.. .i.e. ...i.......-...
i.-l. .1..,, irt.eent lias 11.. .1
tllles
COFFEE ROAST IN BROOKLYN.
. Win fit
.,,. the llrnok VII deparuiieni nas nan
llrltlsh Holds 1 I" the to tight started last evening In the ,la
StlT.-t llllll Of .MOIICKie l.rus. iul.ee
idant. at 1l-..l John street, llrooklvn.
Although the damage- to the building
was only trilling, the bla.e .test roved
a large amount of coffee that was stored
KING AT A BASEBALL GAME.
(instnve Present When Americans. SUBMARINE'S VICTIMS ARRIVE;
Defeat Snrillah Mne.
Stockholm, Aug. 22. King (lustnve
and a vast crowd nt Stockholm to-day
witnessed a baseball game between a
tin in made up fiom the All American
Association Football team and a local
nine, the Vosteros.
The Americuns won by a score of g
to 7.
GARY SEES PRESIDENT II.
From Chlnn Chairman of (Heel Cor
poration (iocs to Japan.
Pkkin. Aug. 22. Klbert 11. Oary of
New York, chairman of the board of di
rectors -f the I'nlted States Steel Cor
poration, has arrived In Pekln from
Manila. He trar, prerented t"-dtiy to
President LI Yuan-hung by the Ameri
can Minister, Dr. Paul Relnsch.
Mr. Oary will go to Japan to-morrow.
.enroll Ity
Hellle Ulnv.
Olllcers of the steamship Helllg nlav
of the Scandinavian-American Lino,
which anlved e.-.l.iday fioiu Chris
tlansaiul, said that after being bold up
at Klikwall, while the Ht'ltlsh nuthoil
tlts r.-niov. .1 the mall addressed to the
I'nlted States, they were ib tallied un
additional foi ty-clglit hours while tho
same olllclals zealously searched Ihe ship
high und low to discover two boxes Honrs above before Fire Chief La Ily and its ndviinced line and r. tu ed !
III. el.
which they believed contained valuable
ilociinietils noni i.onnany. i-'tiaiiy ihey
located the boxes deep III the bold of
the vessel, ami when thov opened these
they found - French novels.
Oil board the Helllg (Mav was Count
Frederick Moltke, a Danish nobleman
who comes lieio to buy supplies for
Me en Men of City of I.ueknon's
Crew Urounht Here.
The California of the Anchor Line
brought here from (llasgow yesterday
seven members of the crew nf the
steamship City of I.sVknow, which was
torpedoed and sunk in thn Mediterra
nean on April 3d when eighty-three miles
from Malta. Thc men. who were the ,. Punish army, lie said strong on
chief officer, three engineers, the chief position lo the sale of the I Mulsh West Vnii.lcvllle
steward ann iwo junior oiuc.-rs, arnven indies existed among mn people or his
to Join the City of Delhi, anchored In .ountiy. '
the bay. , '
Two of the officers say they saw a n Killed. I Hurt Trnln nil Minor
white flash In the water bofoie the ..,,.. ,,,i . ,, .. ,,,
explosion, but the others agreed that . , 1,t:" '.' s- ''' n't .', V' i U'I1'V'
they received no warning whatsoever , ,lls , " K.'' , ' 1 i i , i !'''' ,
The ship, which was hit on the port,'"," V .. 1
misrter. sank In twelve minutes, but "I"'11 I eiilis.v Ivaula Rnllioad tiiiln Mr. Ilallaui nppeared In New , ork In
nil of lb. erew ma Haired to s;et clear ' sluasncii lino uinir auioiiiooue lour s,,,,,,,,.! f lllllle llutke In "Mrs. Dot
w - I. ll.t.nH .1 1 I., I. ..... J ..
In' boats and were picked up shortly ar
It.llunrs Force
An allied ilota.-liniont on the - xi" "
right which had boon .let.ule I t . .1. ,iv
the Itiilgariau advance was ti.i.e.l to
withdtaw' l.efore a coinplete u i s...
Hiilgarlan. from a point w.st . f r s
It Is Kt. I-..W
hold t)nn: al. the
The trouble began on the sixth tloor. crossings of that river.
where tlie cooling plant takes cure of on the extroie left the Se'l.i.iti-. ifter
the product after It has boiu roasted n two dis bittle which w i. do uncd
upstairs, The fire spread to the two to retard the llulgar. ails' t , i' n.vr up
pr n
about, and the ininung neans gave on t u. sitnima rivi
a thick smoke und an Intense heat. evei tliat the Alii
his men, with tho tin-boats William J. .ipal position near i.aKe n.'r.io upi
ilaynor and William L. Strong, got Into position It held before tin one ice-n. if'
play It was estimated that about $2.",- in the icntte the sitn.it . s in .ro
unit worth of coffee and property bad encouraging for the Allies T .. ln-'t'sii.
been ilostroved. Flench folios hoiiili.inlcil the llulg.iuau
pOSHlOllS .01 OOIII Slll.-H . M I. II..' I'-. I' III
and the lnfautr establ.shed iis.ir on
the southern spills of tlie Voles mn.
tains. West of the Valdai- ll.iei tlie
French occupied a line on high ground
near I.Junilu.i and h.-bl It despite vto
lent count" r attacks
Si much is fiom t' e olll -lal n.voutit o'
the French War ' lll-o Fi n Uim
come a ilis-pat.-h who'll st ies ' at he
Itiilg.nlans have taken Kasi i and
Wor'lsa Kastorla s tnuti .. - .iini.
west of Floilua and Its i i n u . ,i i ii. :
ihe remarkable rapldltv w. i will h I n
BASIL HALLAM KILLED IN WAR.
Actor, Known Here,
I'oniiillioilrd II r 1 1 1 alt Kile Seclloil.
L.1NI..IN, Aug. 22, llasll llallam, for
merly well known on the F.ngllsh vaude
ville sta. , has ' Il I I'ed the f Mit
In Fran e. llallam lOintimnded the kite
section of the Hi- tHi ll.vlng curiw,
ttrward by a Urltlshdestroer.
niilei.rlans i. . .. sWfelilni' .1 wn t l... Vi
oilier cniiiircii a,rs iwui) iiijureu ana iwu . ip .,MI piaved the leailliig roie in ioamo K,nlsn boundary This nioveuiii' I n
may die.
Hamilton's "The Ullndness of Vlrtyc." UWu ubJecU. One In lo t;et aiuund tliu
r '
