"Best Cartoons'9
uproduced Daily from T.-D.'s
Latest Exchanges
th YEAR
VOLUME fl?
N I'M 11101 c ik?5
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1916.?TEN PAGES.
^:<NTT:K FAIR
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate and
Court News in The T.-D.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
High Tribute to Jones
Is Paid by Filipinos :
[Special to Tlic TlineM-l)ln|iatcli.|
WASH IMiTON, I?. C.. AiikuK -- j
t'lialniiaii W" i 111 fi in A. JontN, of flic
I Ionic liiniiliir Affair* Coinmlllcp, !
iTliimr I'lilll|i|>lii4> MM wn* milintl
Iiii?-<] ior the I'liirkp nmeiiclniruj. iind
In how only trnltliiK Hie MlKimlure of
the Pre* Ideal to Itwomc law, rr
i-clvcil word l?y cnlilr to-dny of nn '
iiniiKtinl coiii|illiiirn( |?n I?l htm In I
.Manila. The >1 n*> 1**1 |*>i 1 lloniyl of the
city, irhlvh I* elected h.v popular
?oic, ilfflilril j-eMlcrilay to rename |
the rmitouM old lirlilur of Spnlii, the j
bridge (tuiinIiik the I'iihIk lllver. [
which dlvl?le* the elty In half, nud ,
villi it the ".lone* Uridine.**
The hrlduc Ih of Mtoiie, nnd In
nhont :t<K> yearn old. It In one of
the polntn of Intercut v lulled hy all
totirlNt.s, ami IlKiirp.s InrKely In the
native tradition. A eordlitl Invita
tion to ( hnlnnnn .Jonen to \inlt the
IxliinilH tlilM fall, to he present at the
llrnt meeting of the I'hlllpplne Sen- ?
nte. provided for in III* hill, Iiuh lieen
extended. >1 r. .lone* In con*lder lug
t lie lin Itntlon. \ banquet in III*
honor will l?e jslven hy the Filipino*
In Wnnhliilfton, headed hy Itenldent
ContmlNNloner <ttier.oii, on next 'l"iie*
ilay night at n loenl hotel.
SUMMONS STATE BOM
FOB FIGHT ON PIUS
Commissioner Williams Calls Body j
to Meet Hero To-Morrow to For
mulate Quarantine.
CONFERENCE APPROVES STEP
i
Health Oflirers From Leading Vir
ginia Cities Recommend Prompt,
Measures Restricting Travel From
Plngnic ('enters of North.
State Health Commissioner Knnlon j
<'? WilliargB yesterday Issued a call to (
the Stat.- Rpard of Health to meet In :
special session in this elty to-morrow
morning at 10 o'clock to < onsider such i
measures and take such action as will .
"best protect the State against the
spread of Infantile paralysis. Dr. Wil- ?
llama favors? some form of quarantine. |
The commissioner's action followed a j
called conference of State and local
health officers, who, declining as a |
body to express their views in the !
matter, recommended that the State i
board formulate such rules and regu- j
lntions as may to it seem adequate to j
protect the people of Virginia against j
the disease that has become such a J
plague in other sections of the coun
try.
After a lengthy discussion, in which
were expressed widely varying views
as to the form of the proposed quaran
tine should take and to whom it should
apply, the conference adopted the fol- i
lowing resolution:
"Resolved. That it is the sense of j
the conference of the health officers of 1
Virginia here assembled that the I
State Board of Health take such meas- I
ures, including quarantine against ]
such points, at su< h time, and in such j
manner as they shall deem advisable j
to protect the State against infantile I
pa ralysls."
SKI'.KS (M Alt WTINK THAT
WII.I. MOT WOltlv 11A It I)SH 11* i
1 >r. Williams is in favor of a protec-|
tive quarantine, but one that will not
work undue hardship on travelers to 1
this State. After the conference, he I
issued a statement as follows:
"The ruling ?f the Attorney-General j
leaves it discretionary with the State
Hoard of Health to adopt reasonable j
rnie.-- and orders t^> meet the emergency j
created by -the spread of Infantile pa
ralysis. and it is my Jq/lgment that
this discretion should now be exer
cised. The ideal arrangement is one
that will deny entrance into the State
to all who may carry the disease, but
will, at the same time, work no undue
hardship on those who have not been
exposed and cannot carry it.
"How to attain that ideal, in view j
of our limited knowledge of infantile
paralysis, is a question to which we
have been giving careful attention. I
shall refer the matter to the judg
ment of the full hoard, with recom
mendations. and trust that a decision
may lie reached on Thursday. Imme
diately after the meeting of the hoard,
I shall be prepared to carry out Its
orders."
A lil. AfiltRK TH AT I'ltOJII'T
ACTIOX SHOL1.1) nio TAKEX
While expressing divergent views as
to the method of quarantine, it was the
consensus of opinion among the health
officers that measures should be adopt
ed to keep out of Virginia persons
suspected of having infantile paralysis
or of having been exposed to the
disease. One of the conferees likened
the situation arising from the epi
demic in New York City to the dropping
of a pehhle in water?the circle around
the disturbed point becomes wider and
wider. Something, he said, must be
done check the widening of the
circle.
The Attorney-General's ofllce has field
that the laws of the State empower the
State Hoard of Health to make reason
able regulations, including an abso
lute quarantine, for safeguarding,, the
public health. It may go so far, ac
cording to the ruling, as to prohibit
railroads from bringing into the State
persons from infected areas, and any
transportation ^ompany violating the
rules lairl down would be liable to
penalties prescribed by the, statute.
REMARKS ARE EXPUNGED
Statements Made III Hoiimc l>y Calln
wny on Appropriation* Will Not
Appear In Record.
WASHINGTON'. August 22.?Remarks
made recently by Representative Cal
laway, of Texas, questioning the mo
tives of Representative Gardner, of
Massachusetts, in advocating army and
navy appropriations, were ordered ex
punged fr.om the records to-day by the
Houso, which adopted, without debate,
a report from a special committee ap
pointed to lovoatlgate the matter.
RESIDENTS FAIL
0 FIND SOLUTION ;
DF LABOR PROBLEM
liefs of Ei?:hl Railway
Systems Trying to Draft
Reply to Wilson.
:auze that action
must BE TAKEN SOON
me Seek Delay, Hoping for
Favorable Turn of Public
Sentiment.
II'JiOVKRS BI'COMK ItKSTLKSS
up Statement in Which They At
tailt Sincerity <?f ltail
i-oud*.
VASHTNOTO.V. Alienist L'L'. - Kitht
?sidentH of important railway sys
is who have hof'ti designated to,
? ft 'he railroads' reply to President
Ison's appeal that (licy accept his
n for averting ;? nation-wide strike
re. In almost continuous session to
agd to-night without solving their
tblem. Late to-night three >if the
nmlttermen. Halo Holden. of the
rllngton: R S I.ovctt. of the Union
citlc. and Daniel Wiliarii. of the
ltirnore and Ohio, discussed the ait-|
tlon with President Wilson. They)
re at the White House foi- more than !
hour, ami on leaving 'Inclined to talk '
>ut their vls'.t furtllei than to say
?y had asked for the conference 'o
sens? the general situation" and "X
t<-fl to see tl ? pi ? -lent again.
nwiMi I)I*>I'OSITIDN |
to t'ltoi.uMi \i:?;oTi.vrio\s !
Mtiiouc!) some of the sixty or more
!si<l'*ntH are showing a disposition to
dong the negotiations. in the hope1
u the sentiment of the business men i
the country will he shown to he j
po?ed to the idea of an eight-hour j
there was a general feeling to- I
jht that a definite answer to Presi-j
it Wilson'1 demand cannot be much J
lgcr post pot ed
The President is understood :o have
Heated that he d. sired his proposaJ |
be fully debated by the executives, i
t their conferences among themselves
ve failed so far to develop any con- |
>te plan likely to win approval.
?'r> far as the presidents would dis
ss the situation to-night. they still
'? insistent upon an arbitration of the '
rht-hoiir day and all other issues with
~ employees. Ah tho conferences con
mod there was l<*s talk of action
ilch would lead to a strike, l.ut some :
the executives are expected to tluht |
the last ditch any plan which would;
r,-.-. an eight-hour day upon the roads
tliout some form of arbitration
It was understood that the White
mse conference to-nleht did not <!e
lop any a<tual plan, but that the
rr.0 executives wished to get 1'resl
nt Wilson's views1 on various phases ?
the matter. s? that they could be
tllned to the rest of the committee
? morrow. The executives are said to
alizc that Mr Wilson cannot recede
om the position he has publicly taken. <
d'sonic of them are convinced now
at about all they can hope for is to
mc out with some concessions.
It is understood that the chief object |
the visit to th> White House was to,
;k the President to state speciiically
>w he expected the railroads to make
i the millions of dollars which the
anagements say it will cost them to
it Into effect the eight-hour basic day
icy are asked to grant. What the
resident said in reply none of the
immittoemen would reveal. Hereto
?re, according to the railroad men,
r. Wilson has dealt with this phase
' the subject only m the most gen
?al terms. Resides Messrs. Holden, i
ovett and Willard, the committee of
lilroad presidents includes Fairfax
arrisoti, of the Southern Railway; W.
'. Attcrbury, of the Pennsylvania; A.
. Smith, of the New York Central;
. P. Ripley, of the Santn Fe, and
rank Trumbull, of the Chesapeake and
hio.
KSTI.IOSS PKKI.IM,
A mom; ItltOTII lOlt IIOODS
Among tlie more than ROO representa
ves of the railroad brotherhoods in
'ashington there was evident to-day a
ellng of restlessness, and there were
any Inquiries of leaders as to how
npr they must remain. It is not tx
jctod that this feeling will lend to any
ion revolt unless the conferences be
veen President Wilson and the exe.-li
ves are prolonged. Some of the
aders told inquirers to-day that they
ould not have to stay in Washing
'in more than forty-eight hours.
The railroad executives who are
hunting upon winning the President
i their position In the negotiations
jiy that the case is, after all, to be
added by public opinion, and that this
^111 lie found to support arbitration
hd condemn the eight-hour day. They
sade public to-day several telegrams
roin commercial organizations through
ut the country upholding arbitration
>r the settlement of labor disputes and
pposlng an eight-hour day such as tlie
mployees desire.
The Cabinet discussed the situation
t to-day's meeting, anrj, in tlie opinion
f some of the mombors. the danger of
strike has l^en greatly lessened.
Discontent over being held in Wash
igton without prospect of prompt ae
on by the railroad presidents caused
time of the brotherhood men to pro
sst to-day at one of their two meet
lgB. . W. O. T-joe, head of the traili
en's brotherhood, silenced objections,
owever, by urging the men to bo
aitient and assuring thorn that in his
sllof they would not bo hold hero
tore than forty-eight hours longer.
(Continued on Second PaireT)
RUSSIANS FIGHT
ON BALKAN FRONT
Roumania Is Mobilized, and
Greeks Give Battle to
Bulgarians.
NEW WAR PHASE DEVELOPS
Two More Nations About to Be
Dragged Into European
Maelstrom.
' [Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.]
LONDON. AtiRiisI 2'.'?Kvents in the
Balkans, following each other with
dazzling rapidity, t<>-uii?l?t threaten to
drag two more nations, Koumania and
Greece, into the maelstrom of the Kti
ropean war. T!ie crisis admittedly lias
been reached in Bukharest, while Greek
troops, l>>* engaging the Bulgarians in
a bloody battle in Greek Macedonia,
may lead the Athens government to
enter the arena, even nzainst its own
desire.
A startling new phase of the situa
tion reached the public eye for the
first time to-day with the news that
Koumania has completely mobilized her
army of SOO.OOO men. and that Russia
has landed troops at Saloniki to co- |
operate with the British, French, Ital
ians and Serbians. Roth of these im
portant developments, now weeks old,
have been religiously withheld from
public knowledge by th<> entente cen
sors. The news was allowed to leak
out to-day without comment by of
ficials. It only serves to indicate the
terrific battle of diplomacy which has
been raging in the little Balkan capi
tals for the last month. The first Rus
sian detachment landed at .Saloniki on I
July 31. Since that time additional
Russian corps have arrived. A dispatch
from Saloniki reported the arrival of
new forces no later than this morning.
The majority of the Russians already
have been sent to the front, where they
I are fighting side by side with the Ser
j bians in the Fiorina district. They are !
under command of General Frlederlctsz, j
and the first group came from France 1
and Mesopotamia. where they had :
joined the French and British, respec- j
'lively. The later arrivals are said to I
; have traveled all the way from Arch
I angel.
II t'l.W A ItIA NS DISLIKE TO
FIGHT THEIR KI.NSMK.V
It is the belief of the allies that the |
presence of the Russians on the Bui- j
! gariati front will result in that army !
j losing part of its effectiveness.
Brothers in blood and religion to the ]
Russians, thr< Bulgarians are reported ;
to have a great distaste to flirhting the i
battle of the Teutons against their j
kinsmen.
Berlin views the situation in th?*
gravest lislit. but the unexpected sight [
of Greek troops entering on their own >
initiative and engaging the Bulgarians
in battle makes the position of more
importance.
According to to-night's reports, the
military authorities propose to take
mattes into their 0*11 hands unless
the Greek government acts to hajt the
Bulgarian invasion. It. previously had
been reported that no opposition was
being offered the Bulgarians. "The |
Greeks in Macedonia have determined ,
to defend the land themselves if the j
government's policy is not changed,"
says a. Central News dispatch from
Athens.
The Hxchange Telegram Company
has received n message from its cor
respondent at the Greek capital which j
states that the entire Sixth Greek
Division was engaged with the Bul
garians and that serious losses were
Inflicted on the invaders. The au
thorities, it is said, then ordered the
Greeks to retire.
In the meantime, the Greek com
mander at Seres called to arms all the
reservists in the neighborhood.
Mi ni KXCITRMKNT
I* 4"A I SKI) IX ATHK.XS
Much excitement has been caused in
Athens by the developments in Mace
donia, according to an Kvening News
dispatch from that city. Government j
orders have been issued, it is said, that j
all further hostilities must be avoided.!
but the feeling is general In well-in
formed circles here that Greece may
be forced to back up her troops by the
demands of the people.
Tt is admitted that this is the last j
resort of the government to prevent a ;
revolution. So rapid have the recent i
developments come, however, that no j
surprise would be caused here by a 1
complete reversal on the part of King
Coiistantine and his Cabinet. The gen
eral elections in Greece probably will
furnish the moment for action. 'Wirown
iijto another panic by the arrival at
Saloniki of Russians and Italians,
which indicates better than words can
describe the complete unity of thought
and action of the entente, the na
tionalists of Grecce are now said to
be near a total surrender. Greece's
hour struck when Venizelos first tried !
to bring the nation into the war as an '
entente ally, they feel, and now that!
the allies have been forced to take
tilings into their own hands the Greek
national aspirations will find no sup
port in the allied councils when the
diplomats come to gather around the
green table and draft the peace map.
That Germany views I lie Roumanian
situation with the greatest alarm Is
Indicated by dispatches to-day. The
mobilization of the Roumanian army
has brought matters to a crisis, but
German diplomats see a ray of hope in
the fact that since the mobilization has
been completed the war agitators have
coolod down considerably, and espe
cially since the Russians have come to
a deadlock, oven If only temporarily,
in their Austrian drive, and tlio Anglo
French offensive In Woatern Europe
again resoJyeB itself Into trench war
fare and ft struggle for lines and posi
tions.
PROSPECT BRIGHT
FOR BATTLE ROYAL
Fireworks Turned On When De
bate on Emergency Revenue
Bill Is Opened.
G. 0. P. CHARGES REFUTED
Simmons Presents Figures to1
Prove There Is No Demo
cratic Extravagance.
WASHINGTON. Aucust 22.-?With I
Senator Simmons, chairman of the
Finance Committor. submitting figures '
designed to disprove Republican I
charges of Democratic extravagance,!
and Senator Smoot, Republican, I
finance expert, asserting tiiat the f)om- '
ocratlc party should be convicted of'
attcm^ing to procure votes under false ,
prete rices. general debate on the SlOn.-j
000,000 emergency revenue bill began j
to-day in the Senate. There were in
dications on every hand of a partisan
battle-roval to he waged for several
days. i
Senator Simmons insisted that na- I
tional fJ^fetiHe preparedness and the ;
Mexican situation were altogether re- J
sponsible for the necessity of special j
revenue legislation and a proposed 1
bond issue.
SKXATOH SMOOT OPKNS j
IIK 1*1"HI.ICA .V ASSAUI.T i
Senator Smoot, opening the Kepub- '
lican assault on the BCV'?nue bill, said ;
if the Democratic party were to be re- ?
tained In control of the government !
the country would "suiter an era of!
unequnl'ed extravagance combined with '
inefficiency unsurpassed." His attack j
was supported by Senator Curtlss. who
asserted that revenues should be !
raised by a protective tariff.
To prove his contention that normal [
appropriations of this session are not J
excessive. Senator Simmons submitted
Treasury Department estimates for the
year 1917. showing that, excluding
postal appropriations, bond Issues al- !
ready authorized and amounts that i
will not be expended, revenues must j
be provided for disbursements of $1,- I
126.243,000. Of this amount the total
appropriated fc-r national defense would !
aggregate about J654.000.000. and the '
Senate submitted other figures to prove
that this extraordinary amount, due to
preparedness and the Mexican emer
gency, exceeded normal defense ap
propriations by about S372.2?0,ft00.
woi.'dd I.EAVE ?'.r>n,nii:t,(ion
FOR NORMA I. I)!SIIi:itS!?.MK.\TS :
"This amount." said Senator Sim- I
nions. "deducted from the total estl-'
mated disbursement for the fiscal year
1917 would leave $753.903,000 as the
amount required to meet the total ,
normal disbursements of the govern- j
, ment for that year. Now the total I
estimated receipts for the year 1917.
under existing laws, is $762,000,000. or I
$8,037,000 more than the estimated 1
normal disbursements, making ii clear j
that, but for the extraordinary increase
in the appropriation for the naval and
military establishments, which have i
been thought expedient and necessary,
the normal receipts would be sufficient
to pay the expenses of the govern
ment for the year and leave a surplus
of over $8,000,000 In the Treasury, just j
a*; the receipts for the year 1916 (before i
we entered upon this preparedness pro
gram and before the Mexican situation'
developed) actually yielded a sufficient!
revenue to pay the expenses of the I
government and left a surplus in the j
Treasury of $55,270,000."
Subtracting from the estimated dis-'
bursements the estimated receipts fori
1917. the Senator showed that the bal
ance to be provided for Is $'564.2 4:1.000.
To meet this amount he submitted
that the pending bill would raise Si'dS.
000,000; the bond issue, S130.000.000,
leaving a balance of 529.24.'!.000 to be
taken care of by the general fund of
the Treasury, which, he said, amounted
to $134,337,895 on August !6 last.
XA PANAMA BONDS SOU)
IIV DKMOCHATIC PARTY
Referring to the proposed $120,000,
000 bond issue for Mexican expedi
tiyes. Senator Simmons said Panama
bonds could be used to reimburse the
Tieasury. and added that up to this
time the Democratic party has Issued
no Panama Canal bond*. whereas the j
Republicans during the Koosoveit and
Tt.ft administrations sold ?134,000,i?00
worth.
Senator Smoot asserted that the
Democratic party had not kept the
pI.r.gCK of rotrenohm-int and economy,
and charged it with "wasteful and
useless expetiditv.rcs too tong for
enumeration."
Just before adjournment Senator
P. prose offered a reolution t o present
the revenue bill to the Finance Com
mittee with instvu -Hons that It be
? amended to raiso an equitable portion
of revenue required from a protective
tariff. No action was taken on the
l>? oposal.
MANN MAY CAUSE DELAY
Reported lit* Will Demand Quorum of j
IIoiimc (o Send Army Hill Rack
to Conference.
WASHINGTON", August 22.?After
the House to-day had repassed the
$314,000,000 army ,appropriation bill
without the revised articles of war.
the feature which caused President I
Wilson to veto the measure, it was !
hastened to the Senate, and there re
ferred to the Military Committee.
To-night Chairman Chamberlain an
nounced yiat the committee would
meet to-morrow and restore the ar
ticles of war, eliminating the. Hay pro
posal to exempt retired officers and
men from the military code, the pro
vision objected to by the Presidont.
If a point of order is made and sus
tained against the articles In the Sen
ate, Senator Chamberlain will seek to
retain them by a two-thirds voto.
. Representative Hay has let It he
known that ho will not insist again
upon his amendment. There are re
ports. however, that Republican Loader
Mnnn niny demand a quorum of the
Hou8o to send the bill back to con
ference. Such a dovolopment might
prolong the session of Congress several
days.
i
American Navy Enters On
Most Elaborate War
Game It Ever Has
Undertaken.
WASHINGTON, August 22.?Two
mighty fleets were grappling for each
other in the dark to-night somewhere
off the Atlantic coast, in the opening:
phase of the most realistic and elabo
rate war game ever undertaken by
the American navy. The Navy De
partment. on a war footing, was In
voking every agency to aid Rear
Admiral Helm, commanding the "blue"
defending lleet, which was sweeping
seaward behind a line of scouts nearly
600 miles long, to meet and repulse
Admiral Mayo's "red" battle lleet and
its convoy of transports.
. The game began at 6 o'clock this
morning, whep Admiral Helm, on his
flagship, the Rhode Island, received
word that an agent of the State De
partment aboard a ship bound from
New York to Gibraltar had reported
that the fifteen battleships of the
"red" fleet had been sighted COO miles
due east of Cape Hatteras. The re
port said thirty transports were fol
lowing the enemy flee^t. bringing an
army of Invasion to be landed at some
point between Cape Hatteras and
Kastport, Me.
SHIPS MA.YXKI) IV PAItV
IIV CIVILIAN VOLUNTKISltS
An. hour after the report came the
twelve battleships of Admiral Helm's
main fighting fleet, manned in part by
civilian volunteers and naval militia
men, were headed seaward from Nar
vrgansett. Ahead of them nearly a
score of swift destroyers were speed
ing eastward to get in touch with the
enemy, followed and supported by a
cruiser squadron headed by the aero
plane ship North Carolina. Hear
Admiral Cleaves commands the scout
ing force which Is converging on the
! point where the enemy was to be at
daylight this morning.
Admiral Mavo's problem is to force
ETcI MIT
MIKE UP COMMISSION
' Wilson Calls Upon Tliem to Under
take Settlement of Diniculties
With Mexico.
ALL A ('(' K P T AI'POINTMI0.VTS
Only Question Left to He Settled Is
That of Place?Mexican Coin mis
sioners Understood to Prefer Re
sort on New Jersey Coast.
WASHINGTON, August 22.?Secretary
Lansing announced to-night that the
American members of the Joint com
mission to undertake settlement of |
differences between the United States
and Mexico would be Franklin Iv. Lane,
of the Department of the Interior;
George O. Gray, of Wilmington, Del.,
and Dr. John It. Molt, of New York
City.
All of the commissioners have ac
cepted their appointments, and ar
rangements for "their meeting with
the Mexican commissioners will be
made immediately by Secretary Lansing!
and Kliseo Arredondo, Mexican am- '
bassador-designale.
Virtually the only question is whore
the sessions shall be. held.
JEnSRY COAST II.KSORT
PREFIORIIKI)' 11Y M10X ICAXS
The Mexicans are'understood to pre
fer some resort on the New Jersey
coast.
Secretary Lane, who will head the
American Rroup, was the first mem
ber selected. Associate Justice Urnn.
dels was President Wilson's second
choice, but after a conference with
Chief Justice White he decided his |
duties would not permit him to s.-rve, j
Judge Gray, a retired Federal circuit j
judge, and a former United states i
Senator, has had much experience on !
international bodies, and since iftoO has!
been a member of the international
permanent court of arbitration tinder!
convention of The Hague.
Dr. Mott is general secretary of the!
international committee of the Voting!
Men's Christian Association, and au
thor of numerous religious work*. He!
was offered the post of minister to!
China by President Wilson, hut de- '
clined it.
The Mexican commissioners are Luis'
Cabrera. Minister of Finance; Ygnaclo j
Bonillas and Alberto Pani. Itotli of!
the latter are engineers, and P.onillns
is a graduate of the Massaehuset I s In
stitute of Technology.
\V ITKDIt A W'.A I, OK Tit OOPS
!?'I It ST TO III-; i)isn.ssi<:i'>|
Probably the first problem taken up
by the Joint committee will be the j
proposed withdrawal of American
troops from Mexico As General Fun- !
ston has recommended the recall of |
General Pershing's expedition, this is I
expected to l?e agreed to by the Ameri-|
can members.
General Car ran/, a appointed his com
missioners "preferably" to discuss this]
question, the negotiation of a national
protocol covering the border, and in
vestigation of intorests which might
bo behind the raids into American ter
ritory. The United States refused to
limit the discussion to these subjects,
and others undoubtedly will be gone
into.
Colonel tin Pont Renominated.
DOVER, DEL., August 22.?Colonel
Henry A. du Pont was renominated
for the United States Senate at the
Republican Stato Convention late this
afternoon.
Two Mighty Fleets
Seeding Each Other
Off Atlantic Coast
:< way through the "blue" (loot for
his transports. The gam.! board with
in which operations must he routined,
l is virtually O'Mi miles square, and with
the I'fteeti active battleships of the At
lantic Fleet as lii.s main lighting unit,
Admiral Mayo controls a force that
Admiral Helm must employ strategy
to defeat. Rear-Admiral Knight, head
ot' the Navy War t'ollege, is umpiring
the game from the battleship Penn
sylvania.
1 he radio signals of the enemy lleot
mean nothing to the operators on Ad
miral Gleaves's scouting ships. The
messages are in a cipher code known
only to the officers and men of the
?'red" licet. liven the Navy Depart - ;
nient does not know it, for the de- ?
partment is on the side of the defend- J
trig "blue" Meet, and is using every
means to aid in repelling the invader
before he nights American soil,
ixtkitci:pti:i> .mossac; io s
IMCliKD l.l? IIv SCOUTS
Intercepted messages of all sorts
were being picked up to-night by
"blue" rcouts and sent back through
the radio relay ships stationed astern
of the advancing line. The big wire
loss towers at Arlington received them
und sent them promptly to the Navy
Department, where code experts strug
gled over them through the night,
seeking the key to the cipher. The
whole department blazed with light,
with oUlcers on duty in every bureau
prepared to meet any demand Admiral
Helm might make upon them for am
munition, men. repairs. additional j
ships or other support. Through its I
officers along the Atlantic coast the
department searched eagerly for re
ports brought by inbound ships as to
Admiral Mayo's movement, ready to
transmit them promptly to the "blue"
commander.
Bv the terms of the problem, pre
pared at the Naval War College, the
?red" commander has until September
1 to effect a lauding. There Is no j
limit to his movements, except that '
he must reach the coast between the j
points named either in sufllclent force!
to beat off any fleet Admiral Helm !
can bring against him, or without hav- '
Ing been sighted by the "blue" scouts.
Mesial URGED "!
Til HUE BALLOTS FELT
Told to Go to Polls ami Cast Influ
ence to Subserve High am!
Holy Principles.
j G R K A T POTKNTI.U, POWKIl
' Church Vow litis 8,000,000 Voters in
United States Who Should Unite
for I'plift of Public Life?Doesn't
Mean Itcligious Party.
NKW YORK, August J2.?Catholic
voters throughout the United States
were urged by the Central Verein here
to-night to unite and cast their influ
ence at the polls "where it will best
subserve the high and holy principles"
for which Catholics stand. James I?\
Zlpf. president of the Oonzaga Union
of St. Louis, who made the appeal, de
clared there were at least H.OOn.OOO
Catholic voters in the country?"quite
a force," he said, "for the bringing
about of proper conditions."
AI.MOST AS MANY VOTIOS
AS I'OI.I.KIt IIV ItlOI'PIII.ICANS
That,' Mr. Zlpf added, "is almost as
many votes as the HepuMioan partv
polled at the last general election.
That very number places in our hands
a power to be used in works of social
civic betterment, in works of mercy
and of peace. When the Catholic arm
is uplifted let it be for construction
always, but never for destruction."
.Mr. Zlpf asserted he was not con
tending for a religious party, but for
an organization of Catholics to bring
into public life a spirit of liberty and
toleration.
A resolution demanding that :tt the
end of the world war the Pope "bo
heard in the council of the nations for
the securing and cementing of a per
manent peace" was passed by the
American Federation of Catholic Socio- I
ties at Its convention.
A resolution was also adopted "in- j
vjting thoughtful attention" to a state
ment "regarding the attitude of'
American Catholics towards their per
secutcd coreligionists and towards those
who are not their coreligionists in '
Mexico."
ClIt'lK'K has NOT >11 \I0I>
IX MIO.XirAX A KPA IIIS
The statement embodied In the reso- I
liition declared that at no time since i
"the beginning of the sad outrages j
against religion in Mexico "has the >
church or any official body or loader
affiliated with the church "lent aid.!
financial or otherwise, to the stirring [
up of strife, either here or elsewhere. |
to persons or groups claiming to be a i
governing faction in Mexico."
The only money raised by Catholics I
in this country to aid Mexico was
raised and expended for charitable pur
poses'. the statement says.
A resolution passed by the Catholic
Young Men's National Union to-day
called upon members "to act as a unit
in taking up preparedness."
Officers of the union wore re-elected
as follows: president, Michael J. Slat- :
tery. Philadelphia; first vice-president.!
M. K. Fit/.pa t rick, Baltimore; second!
vice-president, ('>. It Colterman, Wil
mington, Del.; secretary, Sylvester A.
Hauck. Jr., Philadelphia; treasurer.
Harry It. Murray, Philadelphia.
ALLIED FORCES
ARE PUSHED BACK
BY BULGARIANS
Both Wings on Saloniki
Front Compelled to Yield
Ground.
PARIS REPORTS IMPORTANT
GAINS SCORED BY CENTER
At Least Seven Nations Now
Engaged in Great Balkan
Battle.
BRITISH WIX at THIKPVAL
Tliey Arc Slowly Closing In Upon
Important Strategic Point
in West.
LONDON", August 22.?Both allied
wings on the Saloniki front, where tho
soldiers of at least seven nations are
In battle, have been bent back by tho
Bulgarians. In the center, however,
where the allies' main effort is being
made at the entrance to the great
Vardar Valley, Paris reports important
gains.
Nothing is said about the Russian or
Italian share in tho fighting, and no
information haa been given as to their
strength. The Serbians apparently
have been the heaviest losers, and havo
been forced back on their extreme left
about five miles from the Serbian
Greek frontier. They claim, however,
continued progross on the other sec
tions of their front.
On the allied right the British and
French, who have crossed the Struma
towards the Bulgarian frontier, have
been forced back on the river.
On the western front there has been
little change.
iiitrrisu push i'oiuva 11 d
l\ TilIKPVAIj SKCTon
The British continue, their efforts to
surround Thiepval. and report the cap
ture of 100 yards of German trenches
in the direction of Martinpulch. There
has been no action of importance on
the French section.
For several days meager Russian
reports have insisted that nothing of
importance has occurred in the east.
Berlin, however, describes very heavy
fighting, both on the Stokhod and in
the Carpathians. An interesting view
of the Russian official statement is tho
intimation that the Grand Duke Nich
olas again is pressing his offensive in
the Caucasus. For the last two days
Pctrograd had emphasized the lighting
around Dlarhekr, but nn important
chance has occurred.
London claims a heavy blow against
Germany on the sea. The British sub
marine K-2S reports having attacked a
lS.fiOO-ton German battleship and
the submarine's commander believes he
sank it.
There is no news from the Italian
front, where a lull has existed for sev
eral days.
.NO llOIMd OF I'kacf. 1IKFOUIO
'ATTA IMIKXT OF VICTORY
PARIS, August 22.?A dl til cult and
prolonged struggle before the war Is
ended was prophesied to-day by
former Premier Viviani, who is Minis
ter of Justice in the present Cabinet.
In an address made at Gueret he said:
"Although victory is certain, it will
require hard and prolonged efforts to
hrAik Prussian militarism and prevent
recurrence of its crimes. There can
be no peace before the attainment of
victory, before adequate reparation is
made and before Justice triumphs."
In an address before the general
council of the Department of Aube,
Bienvenu Martin, former Minister of
Justice, said:
"The French will not submit to tho
peace of the German Kniperor, who
boasted he would force his adversaries
to accept peace on bended knees. They
will accept only such a peace as as
sures them legitimate reparations,
as well as their independence and se
curity, and they will bear patiently
alt sacrifices, in order that, In con
junction with the efforts of their
faithful allies, such a peace may bo
imposed."
ijivi-: phomisi: to i-:
nop to k\ti:k citius
ATM IONS. August 22 (via London).?
Germany and Bulgaria have given a
written understanding to Greece that
their troops will not enter Kavala,
Drama ami Seres.
Kavala. Drama and Seres are tha
most important towns in that part of
Kastern Macedonia ceded to Greece.
Kavala is on the Aegean coast. Drama
is about 2<>0 miles inland and Seres is
near tin* Struma River, In the region
where lighting is proceeding between
the allies and the central powers.
AIX ATTACKS ItCI'l I.SHII.
Acconnixt; to iikki.in
P.KRLIN. August 22 (liy wireless).?
Heavy attacks by both the Itritish and
French on the Somme front have beer
repulsed by German troops, the War
Ofllce announced to-day. The British
attacked between Thiepval and Po
y.ieres, and only succeeded in captur
ing one advanced salient.
South of the Somme trenches lost ti
the French in an attack were recap
tured by a German counterattack.
The official statement follows:
"North of the Somme the engage
ments again are of large scope.
"Repeated attacks against our fron'
between Thiepval and Pozleres wer?
repulsed. The enemy's storming col
urn lis northwest of l'ozieres and neai
Fotircaux wood broke down under oui
lire.
"There has boon tenacious flghtlnj
in tho village of Guilletnont, which thi
enemy temporarily penetrated.
"A wurttcmbcrg company victorious!; '
