ARIZONA BE PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST, 23, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII., NO. 9Z
AUVHSH 3J.VJ.fc
WHAT ABOUT IL
HEME, ASK I
ID
X
J0
THE
01
R. HEADS
n
I BORDER HOSPITALS ARE I
I IN GOOD CONDITION
1
I WASHINGTON. Aug.. 22. I
' Sitieen wsr department hospi-
tala established along the Mexi- J
I can border are now equipped to I
I care for about x,500 men and I
1 when completed will have a ca- I
I paclty of 4.500. The sanitary In- I
( spector of the Brownsville dls- I
I triot reports conditions in the j
I the ramps good. I
n n
XT
, IS ALSO DEED
INTUTPL1
Candidate Hughes Shows by Records is Friend of Labor
OF PRFSMFNT
HARDTOftCGEPTiFIFTY-NINE
CANDIDATES IN PRIMARIES"
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. August 22. With
Senator Simmons, chairman of the
finance committee, submitting figures
designed to disprove republican charges
f democratic extravagance and Sen
ator Smoot. republican finance expert,
asserting that the democratic party
should be convicted of attempting to
procure votes under false pretenses,
general debate on the $205,000,000
emergency revenue bill began today in
the senate. There were indications on
every hand of a partisan battle royal
to be waged for several days.
Insisting that national defense pre
paredness and the Mexican situation
were altogether responsible for the
necessity of special revenue legisla
tion and a proposed bond issue. Sena
tor Simmons declared republicans in
congress had clamored for even great
er expenditures for defense, and having
done this, were seeking partisan ad
vantage by making false charges of
democratic extravagance to the public.
Senator Smoot, opening the republi
tan assault on the revenue bill, said
if the democratic party were to be re
tained in control of the government,
the country would "suffer an era of
unequalled extravagance combined
with Inefficiency unsurpassed." His
attack was supported by Senator Cur
tis. To prove bis contentions that
normal appropriations of this session
are not excessive. Senator Simmons
aubmitted treasury department esti
mates for the year 1917, showing that
excluding postal appropriations, bond
iasues already authorized and amounts
that will not be expended, revenues
must be provided for disbursements of
Ii.12S.234.000. Of this amount the to
tal appropriation for national defense
would aggregate about 154.000.000 and
the senator aubmitted other figures to
rove that this extraordinary amount,
due to preparedness and the Mexican
emergency, exceeded normal defense
appropriations by about $372,280,000.
"This amount," said Senator Sim
mons, "deducted from the total esti
mated disbursements for the fiscal
year 1517, would leave $753,963,000 as
the amount required to meet the total
normal disbursements of the govern
ment for that year. Now the total
estimated receipts for the year 1917
under existing laws is $762,000,000. or
$".037,000 more than the estimated nor
mal disbursements, making it clear that
nt for the extraordinary increase in
the appropriation for the naval and
military establishment wnlch have been
thought expedient and necessarv. the
normal receipts would be sufficient to
pay the expenses of the government for
he year and leave a surnlus of over
JS.OOO.O'iO in the treasury. Just as the
receipts of the year 1!US (before we
entered upon this preparedness pro
gram and before the Mexican situation
developed actually yielded a sufficient
revenue to pay the expenses of the
government and left a surplus in the
treasury of $55,270,000."
Subtracting from the estimated dis
bursements the estimated receipts for
1917. the senator showed that the bal
ance to be provided is $364,213,000. To
meet this amount he submitted that
the pending bill would raise $203,000.
00; the bond issue $130,000,000, leav
ing a balance of $29,243,000 to be taken
care of by the general fund of the
treasury, which he said amounted to
SIS4.S37.89.'. on August 1 last.
Referring to the proposed $130,000,000
bond issue for Mexican expenditures,
Senator Simmons said Panama bonds
could be used to reimburse the treasury
and added that up to this time the
democratic party had issued no Pana
tna canal bonds, whereas the rcpubli-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 22. Eight
presidents of important railway sys
tems who have been designated to
draft the railroads' reply to President
Wilson's appeal that they accept his
plan for averting a nation-wide strike,
were in almost continuous session to
day and tonight without solving their
problem.
Late tonight three of the committee
men, NHale Holden. of the Burlington:
R. S. Loett. of the fnion Pacific, and
Daniel Willard. of the Baltimore &
Ohio, discussed the situation with
President Wilson. They wcie at the
White House for more than an hour
and on leaving declined to talk about
their visit further than to say they Had
asked for the conference to "discuss
the general situation" and expected to
see the president again.
Although some of the sixty or more
presidents are showing a disposition to
prolong the negotiations In the hope
that the sentiment of business men of
the country will be shown to be op
posed to the Idea of an eight-hour clay,
there was a general feeling tonight
that a definite answer to President
Wilson's demand cannot be much
longer postponed. The president in
understood to have indicated that he
desired his proposals to be fully de
bated by the executives, but their con
ferences among themselves have failed
so far to develop any concrete plan
likely to win approval.
So far as the presidents would dis
cuss the situation tonight, they are still
Insistent upon an arbitration of the
eight-hour day and all other issues
with the employes.
As the conferences continued there
was less talk of artion which won!''
lead to a strike, but some of the ex
ecutives are expected to fight to the
last ditch any plan which would force
an eight-hour day upon the road:
without some form of arbitration.
tt was understood the White House
conference tonight did not develop any
actual plan, but that the three execu-
I tlves wished to get President Wilson'?
views on various phases of the mattei
so that they could he outlined to the
rest of the committee tomorrow. The
executives are said to realize that Mr
Wilson cannot recede from the position
he has publicly taken and some of
them are convinced now that about all
they can hope for it to come out with
some concessions.
Among the more than 600 represent
atives of railroad brotherhoods in
Washington there was evident toJay a
feeling of restlessness and there were
many inquiries of leaders as to how
long they must remain. It is not ex
peeled that this feeling will lead to an
open revolt unless the conference be
tween President Wilson and the ex
ecutives are prolonged. Some of th
leaders told inquirers today that the?
would not have to stay in Waxhlniftor
more than 4S hours.
The railroad executives wno are
counting ujion winning President Wil
son to their position in the. negotiation;
say that the case after all is to be de-
cided by public opinion and that thi
n n
(TWO ARE KILLED I
I IN AUTO CRASH i
DENVER, Aug.. 22. Mrs. V. I
T. Burnell and Mrs. J. W. Ellis. I
both of Tulsa. Oklahoma, were 1
killed early tonight when an I
automobile In which they were I
riding was stiuck by a Denver- !
I Boulder interurban electric car. I
J. W. Kills and son. Kenneth, es- I
caoed with minor Injuries. i
D
CAT ICS ARE
TUT
11 TTI
S
INTO OFFICE
FLOW
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. August 22. Catholic
voters throughout the I'nited States
were urged at a mass meeting of the
Roman Catholic Central Yereln here
tonight to unite and cast their Influ
ences at the polls "where it will sub
serve the high and holy principles" for
which Catholics stand, asmes r. Aipl.
president of the Gonxaga I'nion of St.
Louis, who made the appeal, declared
there were at least 3.000,000 Catholic
voters In the country "quite a force,
he said, "for the bringing about of
proper conditions."
"That. Mr. Zlpr aduea, " is almost
aa many as the republican party polled
at the last general election. That very
number places in our hands a power
to le used in works of social and civic
betterment, in work or mercy and of
peace. When the Catholic arm Is up
liftod, let it be for construction al
ways, but never for destruction."
Mr. Zipf asserted he was not con
tending for a religious irty, but for
an organization of Catholics to bring
into public life a spirit of liberty and
toleration. "We must be so organ
Fifty-nine candidates for slate of
fices, representing the republican,
socialist and democratic parties, had
filed their petitions up to five o'clock
yesterday afternoon with Secretary of
State Sidney P. Osborn.
AH day long, there was a constant
stream of petitions coming into the
office. The crest was reached the
night before, keeping the clerks work
ing until late in the evening. The
socialist purty filed their petitions all
on Monday. Not to be outdone in this
matter, late yesterday afternoon the
republican paity filed petitions for its
candidates.
Thousands of names are attached to
the petitions. Probably the nomination
petition most liberally signed is that
of Geo. A. Olnoy, candidate for gov
ernor on the democratic ticket. About
2.500 names were filed, but It was
claimed at his headquarters that 5,000
more were being held.
The republican petitions did not
come in until late In the afternoon. At
four-thirty not even Tom Campbell's
petition had been placed in the hands
of the assistant secretary of state
Considerable anxiety was felt, but a
few minutes before five o'clock Secre
tary of the Republican State Central
Committee Andrew Baumcrt, apiwared
literally loaded down with petitions.
He dumped them all on Secretary Os-
born's desk, and with a smile of sat
lsfaction directed in the general neigh
borhood of Leroy Ladd, secretary to
Governor Hunt, who fiappened to
wander in, wiped his moist brow, as
if to mention that an Important and
weighty matter had been lifted from
i .!..!... 1 ..,!,.. 1 111 FIIOOHJt-m.
H;hTn Th. ,;., rr.ln. wet The prohibition party did not file
f..n.w. . ,. v in i any nomination petitions. They filed a
tnTl.lHck hnd of reliiriou.. Intolera- peilti-r. th.. ugh which will enable them
... , ,... ,i u..,,,i .ti, .h-.it to 1 . w place on the ticket, in which
.. ,. her;- . far shall thou .... I " " t 'heir candidates may be
md no further." "
A resolution demanding that at t'.---
end of the world war the pope
heard in the council of the nations for
the securing and cementing of a per
manent peace," was passed by the
American Federation of Catholic So
cieties at its convention. It said:
"As the representative of the Prince
of Peace a.id the nmn spiritual
father of so many millions among all
nations of the earth, he is the logical
arbiter to whom warring peoples ran
'urn for a disinterested and Impartial
wttlement of all their differences in
iccordance with the sacred principles
of Justice and humanity.
A resolution was adopted "inviting
will lie found to .n.ioort arbitration and thoughtful attention" to a statement
condemn the eight-hour day
They made public tonight several
telegrams from commercial ore.inlza
tions throughout the country upholding
arbitration for the settlement of labor
disputes and opposing an eight-hour
day such as the employes desire.
The cabinet discussed the situation
at today's meeting and In the opinion
of some of the members the danger of
a strike has been greatlv lessened.
It is understood that the chief oblet t
of the visit to the White Houne was
to ask the president to state specific
ally how he expected the railroads to
make up the millions of dollars which
the managements say It will cost them
to put Into effect the eight-hour basis
day thev are asked to grant. What
the president said in reply none of the
committee would reveal. Heretofore,
according to the railroad men, Wil
son has dealt vlth this phase of the
soblect onlv In the most general terms.
Continued on Pr fhrre.
(Continued on Page Twol
1FB STEAMER IS FID
UPON BY GERMAN SUBMARINE
SECRETARY LANE HEADS
THE AMERICAN GROUP
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22. Secretary
Lansing announced tonight that the
American members of the Joint com
mission to undertake settlement of dif
ferences between the L'niled States and
Mexico would be Franklin K. Lane,
secretary of the interior; Judge George
ray, of W ilmington, Del., and Dr.
John R. Mott, of New York City.
All of the commissioners have ac
cepted their appointments, the Mex
ican members were named some time
ago and the arrangement for their
meeting will be made immediately,
with Secretary Iining and Eliseo Ar
redondo. General Cnrranza's ambassa
dor-designate. Virtually the only
question to be decided is where the
sessions shall be held. The Mexicans
are understood to prefer some resort
on the New Jersey coast
Secretary Lane, who will head the
American group, was the first member
selected. Associate Justice Brandcis
was President Wilson's second choice.
but after a conference with Chief Jus
tice White he decided his duties would
not permit him to serve. Judge Gray,
who is a retired federal circuit Judge
and a former United States senator.
has had much exiierience on interna
tional bodies, and since 1900 has been
member of the international per
manent court of arbitration and author
of numerous religious works. He was
'if '
(Continued on Page Two)
;s,iV-v -
r ', J' ' "4 '
flilll,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
THE HAOCE. (via Ixmdon). Aug.,
22. It is understood that the Amer
ican steamer Owcgo, arrived in Rot
terdam about a. week ago and that
er car-tain reported he had been
fired on by a Gorman submarine off
thu Isle of Wight.
Note Already Sent
BERLIN. Aug., 22. Concerning the
American note in the case of the
ateamer Owego, said to have teen
fired upon by a submarine, efforts
an being made to clear up the case,
the German naval authorities having
tecelved their first intimation of the
matter In the American note and
having no other Information.
Handled With Secrecy
WASHINGTON, Aug., 22. The case
of the stea.ner Owego has been
handled by the state department with
much aecrecy and the foregoing Ber
lin dispatch was the first disclosure
that a not had been dispatched to
th German government.
The Owego. having some Americans
pn board, reported having been fired
upon ten times In the Mediterranean
hv a submarine early in the month.
Hhe proceeded to port and It was iiot
made plain whether she had been
fired uiion without warning or If she
uttempted to escape.
Secretary Lansing, rt the time, an
nounced that he wai investigating a
case of a ship bearing Americans be
ing attacked, but he decliined to
give the steamer's name or anv of
the details. The inquiry was begun
when a resumption of submarine war
fare was being suggested by the
new operations of submerslbles.
The fact that the German govern
ment appears to have no Information
lends strength to a contention that
the attacking submarine may have
been A'itrian.
regarding the "attitude of American
Catholics toward their persecuted co
religionists and toward those who are
not their co-rellgionists in Mexico."
The statement embodied in the reso
lution declared that at no time since
the beginning of the sad outrages
against religion in Mexico," has the
church or any other body or leader af
filiated with the church "lent aid, fin
ancial or otherwise." to the stirring up
of strife, eithere here or elsewhere,
against any person or group claiming
to be a government or even a faction
In Mexico.
At no time. It was asserted, have the
exiled Mexican prelates appealed to
their fellow Catholics in the I'nited
States "to aid in revolutionary move
ments or to agitate for bringing ubout
American Intervention."
The only money raised by Catholics
in this country to aid Mexico, It was
added, "was raised and expended for
charitable purposes."
"What Catholics of the I'nited States
ask In connection with Mexico." de
clared the resolution. " is that what
ever form of government be established
in Mexico with the aid and friendship
of our country, it shall grant and
guarantee liberty of conscience and
freedom of worship as they exist In
our I'nited States and which are de
nied In Mexico by unjust laws."
A resolution passed by the Catholic
Young Men's National Union today
called upon members "to act as a unit
In taking up preparedness" and urged
them to communicate witn represen
tatives in congress "in the effort to
bring alnit real preparedness." The
following officers of the union were re
elected:
President, Michael J. Slattery, Phila
delphia; first vice president, M. r.
Htzpatrick. Baltimore; second vice
president. G. R. Golterman. Wilming
ton, Del.; necrctary, Sylvester A.
Hauck Jr., Philadelphia; treasurer,
Harry R Murray.. Philadelphia
Tt o n.mplete roster of the candi-
; n j as follow:
REPUBLICAN STATE TICKET
KME COURT:
:. .1. Haughn. Florence.
TAX COMMISSION;
George M. Smallev. Tucson.
PRESIDENTIAL KLKCTORS:
John C. Greenway. Warren; .1. L-
Hubbfll, Ganado; W. W. Cook. Phoe
nix.
LNITKD STATICS SKNATE:
Joseph i I. Kibhey, Phoenix; W. E.
St ill well. Phoenix.
CONGRESS:
J. Bernard Nelson, Mesa; Henry L.
Eads. Phoenix.
GOVERNOR:
Thomas K. Campbell. Prescolt.
SEt RETAKV OK STATE:
Joe V. Piocluiska, Miami.
STATE AUDITOR:
Ioane Merrill, Benson.
STATE TREASURER:
John A. Campbell. Bisbee.
A TT( RN E Y i EN ERA L:
John L. Gust. Phoenix.
SUPERINTENDENT Ol' PUBLIC IN
STRUCTION:
II. E. Matthews. Phoenix.
STATE MINE INSPECTOR:
Norman J. McKenzie. Kisbee.
CORPORATION COMMISSION:
J. Ilarrle t'loonan. Red Rock.
DEMOCRATIC STATE TICKET
SUPREME COURT:
Henry D. Ross, Prescott; Frank J.
Duffy, Nogales.
TAX COMMISSION:
Charles R. Howe, Bisbee; Owen 11
Murphy. Bisbee.
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS:
Harry E. Pickett. Q. K. Gardiner. I-a-
mar Cobb, Phoenix; Homer R. Wood.
BOTH ALLIED WINOS ONTHE
T ARE BENT
BACK BT THE B
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Both allied wings on the Saloniki front, where the soldier of at least
seven nations are in battle, have been bent back by the Bulgarians. In the
center, however, where the allies' main force is being made at the entrance to
the great Vardar valley. Pari report important gains.
Nothing is said about the Russian or Italian share in the fighting and no
information ha been given as to their strength. The Serbiana apparently
have been the heaviest loser and have been forced back on their extreme left
about five miles from the Serbian-Greek frontier. They claim, however, con
tinued Droaress on the other section of their front.
On the allied right the British and French who had crossed the Struma
toward the Bulgarian frontier have been forced back on the river.
On the western front there has been little change. The British continu
their efforts to surround Thiepval and report the capture of one hundred
yards of German trenches in the direction of Martinpuich. There has been
no action of importance in the French section.
For several day meager Russian report have insisted that nothing of
importance has occurred in the east. Berlin however describes very heavy
fighting, both on the Stokhod and in the Carpathians. An interesting feature
of the Russian official statement is the intimation that the Grand Duke Nich
olas again is pressing his offensive in the Caucasus. For the last two days
Petrograd has emphasized the fighting around Diarbekr, but no important
change has occurred.
London claims a heavy blow against Germany on the sea. The British
submarine E-23 reports having attacked an 18.600 ton German battleship and
the submarine's commander believes he sank it.
There is no new from the Italian front where a lull has existed for
several day.
?
'i
LLblSLflllUM UN
REPUBLICANISM
British Make Advances
LONDON. August 22. The British
have made a further advance between
Martinpuich and Bazentin, where they
captured 100 yards of German trenches.
(Continued on Page Three)
Army Appropriation Bill
h Minus Articles of War
awaaMMMiMaiiiMMsM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire lnblr irt in l,v th nrenident. If a noint
000,000 army appropriation bill with-ltne articles In the senate, Senator
out the revised articles o" war. a fea- Chamberlain will seek to retain them
ture eif which caused President Wilson ' by a two-thirds vote,
to veto the measure, It was hastened to i Representative Hay has let It lie
the senate and there referred to the ' known that lie will not Insist again
military committee.
Tonight Chairman Chamberlal i an
nounced that the committee ivould
meet tomorrow and restore the al '.Ides
of war, eliminating the Hay proposal
to exempt retired officers and men
from the military code, the provision J days.
upon his amendment. There are re
ports, however, that Republican Leader
Mann may demand a quorum of the
house to send the bill back to confer
enec. Such a development might pro
long the session of congress several
Churchill Starts
Debate on Conduct
of the Big War
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Aug.. 22. On the pre
senlation of the motion today for ad
journment of the house of commons
for the summer vacation. Colonel
Winston Spencer Churchill, formerl;
first lord of the admiralty, initiated
a debate on the conduct of the war.
He said there was no certainty of a
speedy" ending of the conflict. Ger
man armies were more numerous
and better equipped than ever, but
what reserve they had was another
matter, he said.
Colonel Churchill urged the coun
try to organize for a long war and to
put food supplies and prices on
war ba-ils. He also recommended the
chartering of all shipping at admlr
alty rates to end the rise In freights
which he called a national scandal,
Instead of restricting consumption
by lucres sed prices, the government
should control distribution of food
supplies at home and overseas, he
said.
The long eastern front. Colonel
Churchill argued, was the most vul
nrrablo and the Inexhaustible armies
that Russia is able to bring Into
operation should be utilized fully.
Therefore, he urged, the chancellor
of the exchequer to permit no finan
cinl consideration to stand in the
way of providing Russia to her lit
most needs with munitions an
equipment upon which, he said,
everything now depends.
says a war office statement tonight
The British artillery has checked the
advance of skirmishers of the central
powers in a sector of the Struma front,
(Continued on Page Two)
TWO WllGHTr AMERICAN FLEETS
CRAPPLE FOR EACH OTHER IN DARK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 22. Two
mighty fleets were grappling for each
other In the dark tonight somewhere
off the Atlantic coast in me opening
phase of the most elaborate war game
ever undertaken by the American
navy. The navy department on a war
fifteen active battleships of the At
lantic fleet as his main fighting unit,
Admiral Mayo controls a force that
Admiral Helm must employ strategy
to defeat. Rear Admiral Knight, head
of the navy war college, is umpiring
the game from the battleship Pennsylvania.
The radio signals of the enemy fleet
footing was invoking every agency to , mean nothing to the operators on Ad
aid Rear Admiral Helm, commanding
the "blue" defending fleet, which was
sweeping seaward behind a line of
scouts nearly six hundred miles long
to repulse Admiral Mayo's "red" battle
fleet.
The game began at six o'clock this
miral Cleaves' scouting ships. The
messages are in cipher code known
only to the officers and men of the
"red" fleet. Those picked up tonight
by 'blue scouts, however, were sent
back through radio relay ships to the
navy department, where code experts
morning when Admiral Helm on his j struggled over them through the night
flagship, the Rhode Island, received
word that an agent of the state depart
ment aboard a ship bound from New
York to Gibraltar had reported fifteen
battleships of the "red" fleet six hun
dred miles due east of Cape Hatteras.
with thirty transports bringing an
army of invasion to be landed some
where between Cape Hatteras and
Eastport, Maine.
An hour after the report came the
twelve battleships of Admiral Helm's
main fighting fleet, manned in part by
civilian volunteers and naval militia
men, were headed seaward from Nar-
ragansett. Ahead of them were speed
ing nearly a score of swift destroyers
and a cruiser squadron. Rear Admiral
Gleaves commands the scouting force
which is converging on the point where
the enemy was known to be at daylight
this morning.
Admiral Mayo's problem is to force
seeking the key to the cipher.
By the terms of the problem, pre
pared at the naval war college, the
"red" commander has until September
1 to effect a landing.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SACRAMENTO, August 22. Charles
E. Hughes, before an audience in the
Armory here tonight, declared for an
adequate federal compensation law.
providing compensation to persons in
jured In hazardous employments en-.
gaged in interstate commerce.
Mr. Hughes also spoke or labor leg
islation enacted under republican nd-.
ministrations.
I rejoice m what has been dona
under republican auspices in the feder
al sphere that is, in that department
of activity which under our constitu
tion is subject to federal legislation,"
he said.
It was under republican adminis
tration that the safety appliance ac;
was passed, a great safeguard of safe
ty of railroad employes. It was under
a republican administration that that
act was amended by congress so as to
give a far wider degree of protection
to safety appliances of various sorts
than were formerly accorded.
"It was under republican administra
tion that cejngress pisseC the hours of
service act in order to prevent the un
due exhaustion of employes through
hours of labor which were excessive.
It was under republican administration
that the employers' liability act of, l'joS
was passed.
W e have had a remarkable record
of achievement in the interests of fair
legislation under republican auspices.
I desire to see legislation of that char
acter and every reasonable sort for
the protection of labor enacted, to the
end that there may be a feeling through.
this country that Justice is being done.
'And I desire to see our wasteful
system of negligent action replaced by
proper compensation laws. That has
been achieved In many states. The
bill before congress deals only with
government employes. In my Judg
ment there has been an adequate com
pensation act dealing with this ssjoject
to the supervision of congress, in such
a hazardous employments in interstate
commerce.
"It makes a great difference whether
half, or less or more large shares of the
recoveries go for attorney fees; it
makes a great difference whether our
courts are crowded with negligence
suits with the uncertain results; ac
cording to the manner in which evi
dence as to the ordinary injustice is
developed. One man succeeds and an
other man fails. Accident and the
risks of accident in hazardous employ
ment are certain; they are inevitable:
they should be dealt with as risks oi
employment under intelligent com
pensation laws.
"It is not mere poetry or rhapsody
to speak of the ideals of human broth
el .lood. Unless we have in this coun
try the spirit of true fellowship; unles.
the man with investments looks upoi
the man working with his hands a.s i.
human being entitled to decent, proper
conditions of living and to a fai:
share of the work that is done for th -profitable
results of that work; unles -.
the man who is toiling recognizes thi
importance of successful production i
and of able management; unless thos i
i in charge of the government realize th-
importance of making sure the basis n '
successful achievement; unless throuj:,,
out all is the spirit of cooperation, be
cause we are fellow workmen in om
different activities, working justly ai;n
honestly, the Lnited Stales can nevi r
achieve its ideals and greatness el
prosperity.
"I had an interesting experience ii-j
governor of New York. When I leit
that office to go upon the bench h?;
I am about to read appeared in the o- -ficial
organ of organized labor in New
York. This is what that organ sa:.
in October, 1910, and I read it in ordir
that there may be no misapprehensio -as
to my attitude. It was said the
with candor, at a time when I had re -moved
myself from the political field. '
Jar. Hughes read as follows:
"Now that Governor Hughes has re
tired from politics and ascended to i
place on the highest judicial tribunal
in the world, the fact can be acknow
ledged without hurting anybody's po
litical corns, that he was the greatest
friend of labor that ever occupied tho
governor's chair at Albany. During hi.-'.
two terms he has signed fifty-six labor
laws, including among them the bes -labor
laws ever enacted In this or any
other state. He also urged the enact
ment of labor laws in his messugs to
the legislature, even going so far a;;
to place the demand for a labor law in
one of his messages to an extra session
of the legislature.
"Only 162 labor laws have been
enacted in this state since its erec
tion in 1777 in 15 years. One-thinV
of these, exceeding in quality ali
others, have been enacted and signed
during Governor Hughes' term vi
three years and nine month."
"That is what organized labor
through its official organ said of
my labor record after I had left tV.i
field of politics," the nominee sai !.
(Continued on Page Two)
Carrancista Troops Break
Up Raiding Bandit Party
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Aug., 22.
Carrancista troops broke up a small
party of bandits who had been rob
bing ranches near Matamoros, south
east of Torreon. killing three and
capturing the leader, according to
an nnnoruni-ement todav hv ftpneral
way through the "blue" fleet for his I Trevino.
transports. The game board within
which operations must be confined is
virtually 600 miles square, and with
The government troops were under
the command of General Jose Santos,
who in his message from Parras said
that he had courtmartialed and slict
at Viezac, the captured leader, i
former Yillista captain named Me
dina. Several rifles and horses wei j
taken.
General Santos said a number of
patriotic citizens were acting r.
police In his section of the Leigut.u
district.
The courtmartial of the followers c
the revolutionist, Mariano Tames, ij
proceeding at Chihuahua City.
