Brotherhood Representatives Growing Impatient Over Delay in Strike Negotiations
• *
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 194
FIVE ROBBERIES
IN ONE BLOCK ON
ALLISON HILL
42 Attempts to Enter Homes in
® Few Months and No
Arrests Made
SYSTEMATIC RAID
Thieves Take Provisions, Vic
trola, Jewelry and Many
Other Odds and Ends
Five additional robberies in one
block on Allison Hill committed some
time during the early morning, are
being investigated by the City Detec
tive Bureau. So far at least forty-two
thefts, or attempts to enter homes
have been reported in the city in the
last few months, but the police and
detectives are unable to cope with the
situation and no arrests have been
made.
Last night the burglars confined
their work to the houses on the west
side of Regina street, between Six
teenth and Seventeenth streets. At
one home they made one of the most
systematic raids known in recent po
;!5 e . records. The goods stolen at the
s?nn f ?w es is va lued at more than
and the araouni would probably
♦ifo» » i en K f eater . b "t tor the fact
I™*=, the ~ obber s were scared
awa>, but returned.
Detective Paul G. Schelhas who
htiiv ♦ c J, ose to the places entered, is
thf , to " dai ' wi *h other members of
an °ther effort to get
♦hi ■> wl " lead to the arrest of
tne persons who have been entering
numerous homes in the city. emenng
ifiin of Will 'am Mooney.
on\ street, provisions, eggs
and sugi" were taken. The home of
r)e . rr ' 1612 Regina street, Vic
records were stolen. En
wfnrt^K- WaS , ga L ned through the front
Inn™ #i burglars raided the
nrnviti/f floor. A small necklace,
other articles were
m' . Derr at noon to-day was
P.f™. ® ive u complete list, but
estimated that his loss was probablv
SIOO. Everything on the first floor
was ransacked.
,i he . hom e of William Meikles,
r, Regina street, some of the fam
ily were sleeping on the first floor,
and frightened the thieves away. Later
according to reports in the neighbor
hood, two railroaders attempted to
stop the robbers, who drew revolvers
and escaped.
The other two places entered were
the homes of Primo Lippi, 1622 Re
gina street, and John Davis, 1628 Re
gina street. So far nothing has been
reported missing at these two houses.
FIRE DESTROYS LUNA PARK
By Associated Press
Scranton, Aug. 23.—Luna Park, a
pleasure resort on the outskirts of
this city, was practically destroyed
by fire of unknown origin early to
day. The fire originated in the dance
hall and before being subdued had
destroyed the dance hall, roller coaster
and the chute and several other build
ings. Houses in the neighborhood
were threatened for a while and the
loss will run into the thousands.
Harvey R. Long, manager of the
Harrisburg Poster Advertising Com
pany, 2 Xorth Fifth street, and for
many years identified with local thea
ters. for three years was manager of
Luna Park.
GERMAN STEAMER CAPTI Rfen
By Associate J Press
Stockholm. Aug. 23.—The capture
of the German steamer Desterro, of
2,543 tons, with a cargo of iron ore,
off Hernosan. Sweden, on the Gulf of
Bothnia, is officially announced. She
was taken into Rtiumo, Finland.
THE WEATHER
For Harrlshurg and vicinity! Thun
d(T»lii)\vor» this afternoon or to
night. cooler; Thursday (air and
cooler.
For Eaulcrn Pennsylvania: Scatter
ed shower* and thundershowers
this afternoon or to-night, cooler;
Thursday fair. cooler; light
northwest to north winds.
River
The Susquelinnnn river and nil Its
branches will probably continue
to fall slowl.v or remain nearly
stationary, except rises may oc
cur In some streams as a result of
heavy local showers. A stage of
about 3.1! feet Ik Indicated for
Harrisburg Thursday morning.
General Conditions
The depression tbnt was central
over the l.nke Superior Region on
Tuesday morning, has inoven
eastward to the Ipper St. I.aw
rence Valley. Jt has caused scat
tered showers In the Ohio Valley,
Southern Michigan, Western >ew
York. Western Pennsylvania and
In the Upper St. Lawrence Val
ley.
A general fall of 2 to 18 degrees In
temperature has occurred east of
the Mississippi river and In
Southwest districts east of the
Rocky Mountains, except In the
South Atlantic anil Fast Gulf Val
ley, where It Is slightly warmer.
Temperature; A a. in.. 7ft.
Sun: Rises, 5:24 a. m.; seta, 11:51
p, m.
Moon i \ew moon, August 28,
12:25 p. m.
River Stage; 3.1 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 1)6.
lowest temperature, 72.
Mean temperature, 84.
formal temperuture, 71.
VACATION' SEASOV IS AT
ITS HEIGHT
Rest and recreation will not be
complete unlesa you have all the
news from home every day. Your
favorite newspaper, the Harris
burse Telegraph, will till the bill.
Phone the Circulation Department
before >on leave home. The next
issue will meet you, no matter
where you *o.
Six cents u week, postage pre
paid.
DY CARRIERS « CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES a CENTS.
WARRING POWERS
NOW STRIVE FOR
AID OF RUMANIA
Military and Political Situation
in Balkans Is of Over
shadowing Interest
RUSSIANS DRIVE FORWARD
British Gain in West; Italians
Remain Passive; Big Forces
in Macedonia
Political developments in the Bal
kans overshadow Interest for the mo
ment even the important military op
erations in progress there, but to-day's
dispatches throw little new light on
the situation from either a political
or military standpoint.
In connection with the attitude of
Rumania the course of the Russian 1
campaign in Bukowina close to the
Rumanian frontier Is being closely
watched. The latest advices from
Teutonic sources, nowever, declare
that the Russians are being held up
by the Teutonic resistance, not only j
in the Carpathian fl .ghtlng, but along I
the entire tront to the north in Gall-'
cia and Volhynla.
With Russian and Italian troops i
added to the French. British and Ser- |
bian forces already in the field, the i
allies have a formidable array of fight- j
ing men on the Macedonian front. So ;
far, however, its strength has not be<?n j
exerted to marked effect. The Bul
garians have pushed back both wings
and it is only in the center, in the
Yardar valley that entente advances j
have been scored. It seems not im- j
probable that this region, which of- !
fers superior railroad facilities be- ]
cause of the line running through it I
from Saloniki to Uskup. has been se- j
lected as the main avenue along which I
the Entente thrust is to be made. j
On the western front, along the |
Somme the British continue closing
in on Thiepval, on their left flank and
apparently have Guillemont on their |
right, almost within their grip. South
of the Somme the French are now be-1
ing forced to fight hard for retention I
of the trenches captured early this J
week in the vicinity of Estrees, and j
Paris reports to-day that the Ger-1
mans, through a strong counter at- (
tack, were able to gain a footing in -
their former trenches.
The Italians are continuing passive
in the Gorizia area, so far as their in
[Continucd on Page 5]
Four Auto Bandits Kill
Patrolman and Make Escape
Amid Fusillade of Shots
By Associated Press
Columbus, Ohio, Aug. 23. Four
automobile bandits shot and killed
Patrolman John Laufhutte here last
night, deserted a stolen automobile
which contained a small arsenal, and
escaped under a fusillade of shots from
the revolver of the dying policeman.
At a late hour the entire police system
of central Ohio was engaged in ef
forts to apprehend the gunmen, un
der the belief that they may compose
the gang which recently perpetrated
the Burroughs Adding Machine Com
pany holdup in Detroit.
The tragedy occurred when Patrol
man Laufhutte found the men repair
ing a puncture on the automobile at a
quiet spot In Beck street. The ma
chine bore no lights and the officer
called the attention of the driver to
the fact. He received no answer and
threw his searchlight Into the body of
the car. The man shooplng over the
tire immediately opened fire. His sec
ond shot struck the officer near the
heart. Laufhutte, staggered back and
opened fire as the men took flight.
They quickly separated and escaped.
In the stolen automobile was found k
rifle with a supply of cartridges, four
revolvers with ammunition and a
quantity of ammunition for weapons
of a different caliber from those
found.
Gld-Fashioned Dreamy
Waltz Supplanting Tango
Chicago, Aug. 23.—The old-fash
ioned, dreamy waltz will supplant the
acrobatic tango in the ballrooms of
the nation, if the National Associa
tion of Dancing Masters has any influ
ence. In convention the dancing pro
fessors decreed that the tango must
go.
The waltz, one-step and the fox trot
will be the fashionable favorites thii
season.
"Dancers are tiring of the tango and
other similar dances," said Thomas
Mc-Dougall of Pittsburgh, president of
the association. "The old-fashioned
waltz always led up to the time the
tango made Its appearance, and we
propose to re-establish it."
LOCATE STEAMER IN 200 FEET
By Associated Press
Newport News, Va., Aug. 23.—Cap
tain George Stillson, commanding the
expedition of three tugs engaged in
salvaging the $1,000,000 cargo of the
sunken steamer Merida off the Vir
ginia Capes: said to-day that the
wreck had been located in 200 feet
of water. The tugs were to leave here
to-day to resume the attempt to sal
vage the cargo. They were forced
to put into this port a few days ago
for provisions and additional diving
apparatus.
CARNEGIE "VERY WELL"
Bar Harbor, Maine. Aug. 2 3.—An
drew Carnegie, who returned from a
fishing trip yesterday, caused word to
he given to Inquirers that he was "very
well." His secretary in discussing re
ports that the millionaire philanthro
pist was ill asserted that on the con
trary he was enjoying "very good
health." Mr. Carnegie will* leave
Thursday on his yacht for a cruise
along the coast of Nova Scotia.
MARTINE TO Rl*N AGAIN
Trenton. N. J., Aug. i'3.—United
States Senator James E. Martine to
day filed a petition for renomination
as the Democratic candidate for thi
(Office he holds.
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 23, 1916.
TEN-BILLION ■ DOLLAR INVESTMENT REPRESENTED BY RAILROAD
CONFERENCE WITH PR
- - • ■% -■ .......
f*~- - — TTl —4t"Tir" r~i n mrwiMijf f"" r — n '—r"'rrn^
(Railroad officials in conference with President Wilson. Left to right, S. M. Felton, president of the Chicago
Oreat Western; V. J. Harahan, president of the Seaboard Air Line, and George Randolph, vice-president of the
Baltimore and Ohio.)
Washington, D. C., Aug. 22.—An investment of more than $10,000,000,000 is represented by the railroad ex
ecutives in conference with President Wilson regarding the impending strike.
ROTARIANS PLAN
TRIP BY MOTOR
With Ladies They Will Go to
Buena Vista Springs For
Day's Outing
Rotarians and their ladies and'
guests, numbering over one hundred, :
will motor to Buena Vista Springs to
morrow, leaving Front and Market
streets at 7.30 in the morning. Twen
ty-five cars will carry the party, and
the trip to the springs will be in the
nature of an automobile run, prizes
to be awarded to the cars arriving at
the Buena Springs Hotel nearest to
the fixed running time secretly deter
'l(ll fU'«. DtUsburg and Gettysburg are
to be checking stations enroute, which
means that all cars will have
to arrive at Dillsburg before
start will be made for
Gettysburg, and all cars arrive at Get
tysburg before start is made for
Buena Vista Springs. On account of
the dusty condition of the roads the
cars will not follow in close succession,
and no attempt at speed will be made.
Dinner will be served at the Buena
Vista Springs Hotel at 12 o'clock, af
ter which the entertainment commit
tee has arranged an array of "stunts"
for the ladles, for which prizes will be
awarded to those who excel. Dancing,
golf, both field and clock, tennis, base
oall and other outdoor events will also
be a part of the afternoon's program.
Homeward bound the route from
the springs to Gettysburg will include
a drive through portions of the Get
tysburg battleneld and National ceme
tery, arriving in Harrisburg about 8
o'clock in the evening.
This is the Harrisburg Rotary
Club's third automobile outing this
summer, the first being to the inter
city outing of the Harrisburg, Read
ing, York and Lancaster Rotary Clubs
at Lancaster on June 20th when the
Harrisburg club captured the cup for
prowess on the athletic field; the sec
ond being its visit to the Hagerstown
club at the Hagerstown Country club
on August 3; and now this one, which
.President Fry predicts will eclipse all
otheis, because the members wiil have
the ladies with them.
Hughes Urges Efficiency
Tariff as He Completes Tour
of California; Starts East
Fresno, Cal., Aug. 23.—At the turn
of his transcontinental trip Charles E
Hughes is speeding from Sacramento.
On his way through the valley the
nominee talked at fourteen station
stops, chiefly on his conviction that the
country needs a protective tariff to
enable American enterprise to meet
the competition of Europe when peace
comes. Mr. Hughes nursed his throat
during the day.
Enjoys California Tour
Mr. Hughes traversed California
from its northern boundary to San
Diego, a distance of approximately
1,200 miles. He stated that the excur
sion was one of the most pleasurable,
although probably the most strenuous.
In his western itinerary. He said the
citizens of the Golden State had made
every effort to show him the beauties
of California in the brief time allotted
him and declared he had taken advan
tage of every opportunity to enjoy
their hospitality.
The nominee left Sacramento shortly
after 10 o'clock last night.
On the way east Mr. Hughes will
speak at Cheyenne. Wyo.; Ogden.
Utah, and Salt Lake City. He wili
reach Denver late Saturday and will
deliver an address there Saturdav
night. Immediately after this speech
he will depart for Estes Park. 176
miles from Denver, where he will rest
five days before continuing his home
ward Journey.
AUTOISTS ENDANGERED
While attempting to turn his auto
mobile around along the River road
between West Fairview and Worm
leysburg last evening about 8 o'clock
B. F. Garver, New Cumberland, and
family narrowly escaped injury when
their car stopped on the edge of the
river bank. A small rise in the ground
kept the car from overturning.
FLEETS HAVE NOT MET
By Associated Press
Washington, D C.. Aug. 23. —Ad-
miral Mayo's hostile fleet, seeking to
land invaders on the Atlantic sea
board. ajid Rear Admiral Helm's de
fending squadrons had not met in
battle to-day in the greatest war game
of the American Navy.
HAtgAHAKi
SISTERS NAMED
KIPONA QUEEN
Florence and Blanche Reese
Being Supported by Admirers
For Carnival Ruler
The entry list for the many aquatic i
events for the Kipona on the after- •
noon of Labor Day on the Susque- -
hanna River promises to surpass In
size that of any previous water car
nival held on the river basin. Every
human fish, every boy and girl, who
know how to handle a boat is urged
by the committee on entries to put
aside his or her bashfulness and get
Into the competition.
Entries may be made at any of the
following places; Dintaman'S, BefrH <
er's, Sourbler's boathouses, the munic
ipal port at South street. George W.
Bogar's, the Park Commission's offices
the East End Printing Company
1524 Derry street, or any of the bath
houses. It is very probable that the
motion picture concern which is in
Harrisburg taking 3,000 feet of local
scenes, will make the Kipona event a
big feature of the Harrisburg picture.
The war canoes are all reported to
be on the way and will be here In
I time for the scholastic crews to have
a few practice spins before the race.
The gold, sliver and bronze medals
have been approved and will be made
up immediately, with the raised Key
stone in gold, blue and white, making
an attractive and appropriate design.
Sister vs. Sister for Quoen
The names of four candidates for
the honor of Queen of the Kipona
have been sent in by admirers who
are strongly supporting their nom
inees for the coveted honor of reign
ing as queen on the special float which
will be prepared. Ballots may be cast
in Bowman's, Dives, Pomeroy & Stew
art's, or Kaufman's. Miss Blanche
Reese and her sister, Miss Florence
Reese. 1111 Montgomery street, Miss
Margaret Meyers, 1700 State street;
Miss Marie Holtzman, 2222 North
Third street, and Miss Rachel Lingle,
103 Washington street, are already
capturing many votes. Send names to
V. Grant Forrer, park superintendent's
office.
The Rotary Club is taking a keen
; Interest in the success of the Kipona
and Secretary Forrer this morning
, received a check for SSO from the
1 club, with the statement that the
; contribution Is In addition to the float
which will be entered in the carnival
and the band that will accompany it.
Contributions are coming in slowly
j but suraly.
Previously acknowledged $275.00
Evans-Burtnett Company. . ... 10.00
Robert McCormlck... 25.00
Donald McCormick 25.00
The Rotary Club 50.00
Henry McCormick, Jr.. 5.00
Harrisburg Bridge Company.. 50.00
Total $440.00
McCOHMICK .MEETS WALSH
By Associated Press
Chicago, Aug. 23. Vance C. Mc-
Cormick, chairman of the Democratic
National committee, conferred here
to-day with Senator Thomas J. Walsh,
manager of western headquarters and
a number of department and bureau
chiefs. Later he met several national
committeemen and State chairmen
i for whom he received information re
! garding the progress of the cam
! paign. Chairman McCormick said
| President Wilson will sDeak in Chi
cago and other cities in central and
western States before the close of the
campaign.
HOLD EPIDEMIC IN LEASH
By Associated Press
New York, Aug. 23.—New York's
record-breaking heat wave has failed
to spread the epidemic of infantile
paralysis. Only a slight gain was
shown to-day in the number of deaths
and new cases reported. During tha
twenty-four-hour period ending at 10
a. m. the plague killed 42 children an-1
131 were stricken. This compares with
39 deaths and 118 cases during the
same period yesterday.
SENATE P \SSES ARMY BILL
Washington, D. C., Aug. 23.—An
army appropriation bill with revised
articles of war approved by the War
Department was passed to-day by th»»
Senate and now goes back to the
House, where the amendment is ex
pected to be accepted.
TO HOLD PICNIC
The annual picnic and outing of
the Junior Christian Endeavor Society
of the Sixth Street United Brethren
Church will be held at Reservoir Park
to-morrow. The children will be
taken from the church in automo
biles, leaving at 9 o'clock.
GSSE£i&ISAISBQkE£k+
FIELD BAKERY IS
FORMED IN GUARD
Major Mueller, of Philadelphia,
Will Likely Command Latest
Organization
Announcement was made at the ad-1
jutant general's department to-day of I
the organization of a field bakery at
tached to the division of Pennsylvania [
troops now at the border. The bakery
will be composed of sixty-one men.
divided into four sections, under com
mand of a captain. It is likely that
Major Frank L. Mueller, of Phlladel-!
phla, now In the quartermaster corps, ]
will be detailed to command th« new ,
organisation. EafJfof the'thr*<r ser-'
tlons will be in command of a ser
geant and when the troops return to
this State three sections will be located
in Philadelphia and one in Pittsburgh,
where there jA*e armory facilities.
The field bakery will have a capacity
of 2-1,000 loaves per day, each section
producing 6,000.
It is expected that orders will be
issued within a day or so mustering
out of the guard the company of the
separate battalion at Danville. The
Willlamsport and Milton companies
are to be absorbed by the Thirteenth
Infantry, while the Sunbury company
succeeded the Pottsville company of
the Fourth.
The progress on payment of the
men who enlisted prior to June 24 and
who were rejected or did not take the
oath is being held back by failure of
men to send data regarding residence.
All such men of the Fourth have been
paid and most of the Sixth and Eighth,
while progress is being made in the
i payment of the First, Third and
I Eighteenth.
j Second Lieutenant E. T. Miller, Lock
Haven, was to-day promoted to be first
j lieutenant of Troop K. First Cavalry.
Finds Indian Ceremonial
Fireplace Digging Sewer
Trench in Woodbine Street
; Ceremonial fireplace of an old Indian
; camp site, around the flames of which
) aborigines of years gone by danced
and prayed while they javo up sac
■ rifices to their gods, was excavated by
! a gang of laborers who were digging a
| ditch in Woodbine street, a few days
; ago.
I B. Frank Nead. a local attorney,
j removed a number of old -sites from
I the firo lined sides of the tjlaoi which
I was d'reovered by Harry f. Haa*.
| Ncrtn Sixtli street. Many chaired
I bone heads, deer bones, stai; antlers,
i doy rnd turkey borrcr-, lailons of u
j hawk £.nd other articles were re
i moved.
Private Exhibition of
Civic Moving Pictures
j Moving picture films, showing Har
■ risburg as the "heart of distribution,'
'and depicting daily scenes in this busy
i city and vicinity, will be made an im
-1 portant factor in boosting Harrisburg.
i Following a private exhibition, to-dav,
by the Falrite Film Company, of New
York City, showing Williamsport city,
everybody present unanimously express
ed themselves as enthusiastic over the
wonderful possibilities existing in Hnr
rlsburg for the making of a represen
tative civic film.
Present at the exhibition, given In
the Victoria Theater, were representa
tives of the Harrisburg Chamber of
Commerce, Rotary Club and Engineers
Society of Pennsylvania, Mayor E. S.
| Meals and other city officials. The Fal
rite Company will picture scenes at the
! Harrisburg Chamber of Commerce out
| ing next Saturday.
THROW MEN OCT OE UNION
Athens, Ohio, Aug. 23.—One hun
dred and seventy-five miners employed
at Mine No. 3 7 of the New York Coal
Company, who struck because the
company would not discharge John
Murphey, mine boss, and who refused
to go back to work when ordered to
do so by John P. White, international
president of the miners' organization,
to-day are not union men. The char
ter of their local union has been re
voked by President White.
HURLED UNDER AUTO
Clarence Knighton, aged 22, of 446
Boyd street, was hurled under an
automobile driven hy E. B. Waters, of
Lock Haven, this mQrning, when the
motorcycle he was driving sideswiped
the big car near Dauphin. The wheel
of the auto, according to Mrs. Knigh- j
ton passed over her husband, but he I
escaped with slight lacerations of the i
head, face and body. He was taken
to the Harrisburg Hospital for treat- |
raemt. Mrs. Knighton was uninjured, j
12 PAGES
LEADERS FEAR THEY
CAN HOLD
BUT UTTLE LONGER
Employes' Meeting Thrown Into Uproar by Speeches of
Strong Minority Which Demands Immediate Action
Unless Roads Accept President's Plan
RAILROADS PLAYING FOR TIME
CHARGE OF RESTLESS ELEMENT
Discontent Spreading Rapidly; Managers Continue De
liberations on Form of Counter Proposal They Should
Make to Wilson; Talk of Passing 8-Hour Law For
Railroads
Washington, Aug. 23.—The railroad
employes committee snoweu . jch j
signs of unrest to-day at the delay
in the negotiations between President
Wilson and the railroad executives
that the leaders of the men were
alarmed and openly expressed fears
of their ability to hold them much:
longer.
An employes meeting this morning ;
wae thrown into an uproar by I
speeches of a minority which de- >
manded immediate action unless the
roads accept the President's plan, but'
the leader succeeded in adjourning;
it before any vote could be taken on I
any of the various proposals. They
said afterward that while the pres
sure for immediate action came from
a minority it was strong. The leaders
said they believed the majority would
be willing to give the President a j
little more time.
Some of the men urged that most |
of them go home leaving the brother
hood heads with authority to call a
strike if the railroads do not accept j
the President's plan.
The meeting adjourned until 10
o'clock to-morrow morning. Fre
quently shouts and applause were
heard a block away from the hall. !
"It is our belief," one of the <Jom
mitteemen said, "that the railroads
are playing for time with the Presi
dent, Just as they have done with us
for many months. There is no reason
why they should not have given the
President an answer by this time. They
are tiring us out all right and the
men are getting disgusted with the
jvholQ situation. 1 think there are
enough cool headed cohSmlti^eftfeft
; I U-BOAT ATTACKS AMERICAN LOAT
Rotterdam, Aug. 23. According to information here I
i ( the American steamer Owego, regarding a reported subma- T
rinc attack on which the American government has in- I
, quired of Germany, arrived heie August 13 and reported >
encountering oft the Isle of Wight a German submarine |
, which fired ten or twelve shots at her without warning, it
is declared, some shells striking very close to her but in- '
flicting no damage. a >
t ' RAILROAD HEADS MAY GRANT 8-HOUR DAY 1
Washington, Aug. 23. There are many indications | I
i ® that the railroad presidents are considering the eight-hour |
day on condition that some definite assurance be given them t
; i that future disputes will he arbitrated.
EARTHQUAKE IN CALIFORNIA
< Eureka, Cal., 23.—The most violent earthquake felt here j
since April, 19C. Francisco was destroyed, I
, t rock tl ■: ity and northern Humboldt county at 6.55 this J
< | morni There was no material damage. A
WILLIAM H. CORKLE DIES
e ' il
Karrisbiirg.—William H. Corklc, assistant station- ' *
master of the Pennsylvania Railroad here, died this morn
< ' ing at his home, 31 North Seventeenth street. Mr.
! has been .11 and unable to attend his regular duties since ! '
I I July of last year. Funeral services will be held from the I >
< ( house Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock. 1 J*
TO DEFER SCHOOL OPENING
( Harrisburg.—State Commissioner of Health Dixon will ® ►
late to-day discuss with A. D. Glenn, Deputy Superintendent
of Public Instruction, the proposition of deferring opening'f
* of the schools of the State until late in September or early '
' in October because of infantile paralysis. It is likely thatj ►
< • it will be arranged. To-day over forty new cases were re- i
; ported from throughout the State.
, I Harrisburg.—After completing a thorough*investigation
into the circumstances surrounding the death of the
- ; 5-month-old sen of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Shaffer, of Edge-' '
m'ont, near here, Coroner Jacob Eckinger and County De
,'t tective James Walters found that the causes were natural. 1 »
|
. . I
CITY EDITION
here to control the meetings a day
or two longer, but the discontent is
spreading rapidly."
While the railroad executives con
tinued deliberations on what form of
counter proposal they shall make to
President Wilson, the President con
ferred with Senator Newlands and
Representative Adamson, chairman of
the Interstate Commerce Committee
in Congress, about the bill to increase
the membership of the Interstate
Commerce Commission by two. Sena
tor > T ewlands afterward announced
he would push his bill immediately.
The development was taken to indi
cate a movement for sending the in
vestigation features of the President's
plan to the commission.
Possibility of passing an eight-hour
law for railroads was discussed among
several congressional leaders, but no
definite program was evolved and it
was understood no action would be
taken unless the President's efforts
failed.
Three railroad presidents reported to
the committee which is trying to
[Continued on Page 5]
N. Y. Tenement Collapses;
One Dead; 6 Missing
By Associated Press
New York, Aug. 23. Six men are
missing, one is dead, several are dying
in hospitals and a dozen others were
injured to-day as the result of the
collapse of a flve-story brick tenement
tri"*o i urse of construction In the Bronx.
