I I Today's Metal Pric'es. ffiXff jJ VVVvXV 4 P- M- CltY m I
w t II up if 1 1 11 PTI 23) lil II llrf I II jmAGK
I; New York, Aug. 23.-SIIvcr, 66 3-8c- kJJ'V' C I' T W V' W '"vJAT jl
lend, $6.60G.75; cpelter, 59.250975- ' J J v r and Thursday; Warmer In Extreme lH
Wt copper, $26.50 and $28.00. ' I J South Portion Tonight; Friday Prob- jl
I kS ably Fair. lH
I FEARLE55, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. : lH
m Forty-sixth Year-No. 202. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 23, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah." Ul
i . H
Brotherhood Leaders Fear They Cannot Hold I
Men Much Longer Railroads Play for Time H
I Bulgarians Are Advancing in
Greece and Fortifying Positions
BULGARIANS PUSH BACK BOTH
WINGS OF THE ALLIED ARMIES
1
I Entente Forces Score Successes Only in Center Possible En
I try of Rumania and Greece Into War Overshadows Mili
K ftuy Operations Close Watch Kept on Russian
I Campaign in Bukowina British Closing in on
& Thiepval Germans Gain Footing in
French Trenches Turks Foiled and
3jj Driven Back by Russian Black
h Sea Fleet.
it
Petrograd, Aug. 23. Via London,
a 2:45 p. ra. The Germans resumed the
offensive yesterday south of Brody,
it where the Russians are attempting to
I approach Lemberg from the northeast.
; The war office statement of today
says the Germans were repulsed.
1 The Russians captured two heights on
- the Hungarian front.
i 1 The announcement follows:
"In the region south of Krero
(southeast of Vilna) the enemy on
: Tuesday night launched a gas attack
which was repelled with heavy losses.
! "More than 100 bomhs were dropped
hy enemy aeroplanes on the railway
stationed at Maneuvichl.
i "In the region of the south, south
; of Brody, the enemy resumed the
offensive at some points. His attacks
'. i i vero repulsed everyhere by our fire
t "Near the source of the river Pruth.
southwest of Ardjulez. we captured
. m,m two heights north and south of Kov
erla mountain on the Hungarian
i frontier."
B. Turks Driven Back.
Petrograd, Aug. 23. Via London,
2:40 p. m An offensivo undertaken
by the Turks along the Armenian
Black Sea coast has been stopped and
i the Turkish forces driven back with
I the aid of the Russian fleet, it' was
i announced today by the war office.
i The statement regarding the Rus
a sian operations against the Turks on
; the Caucasus front says:
:L "The Turks who resumed the offen
I slve on the line of the towns of El
len, Slkhchadi and Maden. situated
on the coast were driven back to
i their positions with the co-operation
I of our fleet
I "West of Lake Van (southern
If Turkish Armenia) our offensive is
Ik successfully developing. Three offl
I cers and 174 Askaris wero taken
I , prisoner.
I "In pursuing the retreating enemy.
I our cavalry column sabered a large
I number of Turks."
I! Austrc-Hungarlans Remiorcea.
Berlin, Aug. 23, by wireless to Say
ville. The Austro-Hungarlan troops
in Albania have been reinforced re
cently, according to official informa
tion from Vienna, which was given out
today by the Overseas News Agency.
i This statement was made to contro-
vert a report from French sources
that Austro-Hungarian troops had
1 been withdrawn and that in conse
, quence thero was famine in Albania
.' and widespread agitation.
Equally untrue, it is said, are as
sertions that rebellions have broken
out In Montenegro.
S "For seven months the Austro
r Hungarian authorities have had in Al
j ' bania a well regulated administration
which distributes and enforces hy
; gienic safeguards," the statement
; saj-s. "Relief work on a, large scale
has been undertaken and an epidemic
' was stopped. The Montenegrin popu-
lation is calm and satisfied."
German Steamer Captured.
Stockholm, Aug. 23 Via London,
4:05 p. m. The capture of the German
steamer Deserter of 2,405 tons gross
with a cargo of iron ore oft Hero
sand, Sweden, tho Gulf of Bothnia,
is officially nounced. She was
taken in Raumo, Finland.
French War Report.
Paris, Aug. 23. German troops at-
I tacking tho French lines south of
, Estres on tho Sommo front gained a
footing at some points In trenches
that had been captured by the French
; on August 21, the French war office
: announced today.
The attack in the Estres' region,
' south of tho Somme, was launched
after a period of Intense artillery pre
paration. 1 North of the Somme the Germans
violently bombarded tho French first
line.
The statement follows:
"North of the Somme the enemy
during the night bombarded our first
lines and our lines of communication
to the north and south, of Maurepas.
Our artillery replied energetically.
The enemy did not follow up his
bombardment with infantry action.
"South of the Somme, after intense
artillery preparation, the Germans,
toward the end of the day, made an
attack south of Estres and west of
Soyecourt, on the trenches which we
captured August 21. He gained a
footing at some points. There was a
fairly active artillery duel in the sec
tors of Belloy, Ashevillers and
Lihons.
"In the Vbsges we repulsed by
means of grenades a surprise attack
against one of our trenches so'uth of
Hartmnnns-Wellerkopf.
"The night was relatively calm on
the remainder of the front.
"On the Somme front "Warrant Of
ficer Dorme brought down his fifth
German aeroplane. Four other enemy
aeroplanes, fired on by machine guns
from our aeroplanes, came down
within their own lines, severely dam
aged." Germans Make Strong Attack.
London, Aug. 23, 3:02 p. m. Two
heavy assaults on the positions newly
won by the British south of Thiepval,
on the Somme front, were made last
night bythe Germans. They gained
a footing in the British trenches, but
were driven out again, the war office
announced today.
The announcement says:
"The enemy made two determined
counter attacks on our new trenches
south of Thiepval. The first attack
he gained a temporary footing in our
trendies, but was driven out immedi
ately. Tho second attack was re
pulsed completely. Tho enemy's
losses in theso two attempts were
heavy.
"Last night there was rather more
hostile artillery fire, especially In
the region of High wood and Bazen-tin-le-Petit.
"Opposite Lens wo carried out a
small raid successfully. On the other
parts of the British front there was
tho usual trench warfare."
British Keep Up Attacks.
Berlin, Aug. 23, via London. The
British have kept up their attacks
upon the Somme front between Thiep
val and Pozleres but have been un
able to make any gains, according to
today's official announcement. The
statement says:
"Between Thiepval and Pozleres
British attacks were vainly repeated.
North of Ovillers fighting continued
at close quarters throughout the
night. East of Foureaux and near
Maurepas enemy hand grenade at
tacks failed.
"Tho enemy artillery on both sides
continues to display great activity.
"South of the Somme near Estres
small portions of a trench in which
the French had maintained them
selves since Monday have been clear
ed and three officers and 143 men
fell into our hands.
"On the right bank of the Meuse we
repulsed enemy hand grenade attacks
in tho Fleury sector. Minor Infantry
attacks in the hilly wooded region
went in our favor."
Excellent Crops Forecast.
Berlin, Aug. 23. By wireless to
Sayville. The Tageblatt says that
tho favorable crop forecasts aro be
ing borne out and that excellent
violds of all cereals are being gath
ered throughout Germany. Fodder
also is plentiful. The potato crop,
however, is probably Inferior to that
of last year owing to the excessivo
rains. Sugar production has increased.
Theoretical Safety of the Na
' tion Rests on Success of
Rear Admiral Helm.
Washington, Aug. 23. Admiral
Mayo's hostile fleet seeking to land
Invaders on the Atlantic seaboard and
Rear Helm's defending squadron had
not met in battle today in the great
est war game of the American navy.
Somewhere out in the Atlantic the
scouts of both fleets were groping
for one another.
At daylight Rear Admiral Helm's
scouts were spread out over the arc
of a great six hundred mile circle,
the center of which was a point due
east o Capo Hatteras, where the in
vaders and the great armada of troop
transports were reported at the start
of the problem 24 hours before.
The fact that no reports had come
that the Invading scouts had been
picked up was taken to Indicate that
Admiral Mayo had changed his course.
Washington, Aug. 23. Safety of
the nation rested theoretically on the
success of the fleet commanded by
Rear Admiral Helm, which was steam
ing out into the Atlantic in search
of the "enemy" fleet under Admiral
Mayo, bound for American shores
with an Imaginary army of invasion
in thirty transports. It was the sec
ond day of a great naval hide and go
seek game.
Not the least important aid to the
defending fleet was the navy depart
ment with its means of gathering in
formation on the invaders' where
abouts from merchant vessels at sea.
Bent over their desk in the bureau
of communications, naval officers who
have made special study of codes
worked ceaselessly to solve the riddle
of the enemy's code system. They
had as material number of wireless
messages transmitted by. Admiral
Mayo "red" fleet, picked by ships of
Admiral Helm's defensive fleet and
relayed to the Arlington wireless station.
oo
RUMANIANS ARE
NOT EOF. WAR
Berlin, Aug. 23. By wireless to Say
ville. Rumania has not decided
whether she will enter the war, in the
opinion of a person characterized by
the Overseas News Agency as "a
distinguished diplomatist who Is
especially conversant with Rumanian
affairs." On being asked by the news
agency as to the present situation, he
said:
"Rumania's altitude is due to her
geographical situation. The country
is virtually surrounded by belliger
ents. Rumanian statesmen therefore
are guided by the desire to spare their
country tie injury which would bo
unavoidable if it were to become a
theater of war.
"Since the beginning of the present
conflagration, the entente powers,
particularly Russia, have been ex
tremely active in behalf of their cause.
The country is flooded with agents
and spies of all kinds. The entente
uses money lavishly to bribe politi
cians and influence the press. Not
the sudden and successful Bulgarian
advance has brought a quick change in
the situation and the Russian offen
sive also apparently is slackening.
"At present Rumania is undecided.
She probably will not givo up her
adroit policy of neutrality unless she
believes tha't the really decisive turn
in the way has been reached. Mean
while trade rotations between Ru
mania and the Central powers con
tinue to be normal and active."
ITALIANS OM 1
Making Strong and Successful
Thrust at Austrian Lines in
Alpine Region.
ENEMY LOSS HEAVY
Artillery Duel Progressing in
Gorizifj Area Austrians
Leave Many Dead.
Rome, Aug. 23, via London, 2:30 p.
m. "The Italians are making a strong
and successful thrust at the Austrian
lines in the Alpine region on tho ex
treme northern front, according to
today's war office announcement.
Italian troops have carried strong
Austrian positions in the Tofana area
in the Dolomites and in tho Traven
anzes valley.
The announcement follows:
"In fcae Astico valley, on the night
of August 22, the enemy shelled our
positions at the bottom of the valley
with great intensity, but did not de
velop any infantry attack. On the
samo night an attempt of the enemy
to advance between Casera Zingarella
and Casera Zeblo Pastorile, on the
Aslago plateau, was checked by our
fire.
"In the Tofanq area yesterday,
after effective artillery preparation,
detachments of our Alpine troops and.
infantry "carried" strong" enemy posi
tions on the western slopes of To
fano III and In the Travenanzes val
ley. The enemy suffered heavy loss
and left about forty prisoners in our
hands.
"In the Gorizia area artillery fight
ing is in progress. An enemy detach-1
meht which attempted to approach I
Vertoibizza stream yesterday after
noon was repulsed by our firo and left1
numerous dead on the ground."
oo
RUSS UNABLE
TO MAKE GAINS
Determined Attacks in Volhy
nia, Galicia and Carpathians
Made at Enormous Cost.
TEUTONS HOLD GROUND
Muscovites Completely Re
pulsed Losses Run Into
Thousands.
Berlin, Aug. 23 (By Wireless to
Sayville). Despite their determined
attacks in many sections of the front
In Volhynia, Galicia and the Carpa
thian regions, the Russians have been
unable to gain any ground from the
Teutonic forces, according to the Aus
trian official statement of Aug. 22.
The Russian losses In tho fighting
along the lower Stokhod, northeast of
Kovel, were particularly heavy, says
the statement which follows:
"Near Zable, southwest of Kolomea,
on the Bistriatza and in the vicinity
of Tartar pass several Russian at
tacks were repulsed. Southwest of
Zielon (In tho Carpathians west of
Delatyn), during successful engage
ments we captured 100 prisoners and
two machine guns.
"Front of Field Marshal von Hindeu
burg: In the sector of Terepelinike
Hieniaki tho enemy resumed his at
tacks against General von Boehmo
Ermolll's army. Aside from a small
trench over which an engagement is
still in progress, the position are firm
ly in our hands, despite the Russian
sacrlfces.
"On the railroad from Kovel to Sar
ny and near Smolary .on the Stokhod
northeast of Kovel), "the enemy lost
advanced trenches and we captured
two machine guns
"Near Rudka Chervische, 36 miles
northeast of iKovol, the Russians
again used their utmost efforts to gain
ground on tho west bank of the Stok
hod. They were everywhere complete
ly repulsed, their losses running into
the thousands. In addition wo captur
ed two officers 270 men and four ma
chine guns. In the fighting taken
part in by the Bavarian cavalry, the
Emperor Francis Dragoons again prov
ed themselves worthy of their famous
traditions.
"Italian and southeastern waf the
aters: The situation is unchanged."
Russians Lose 5,000.
Berlin, Aug. 23 (By Wireless to Say.
ville). A correspondent of the Col
ogne Gazette on the Russian front,
says that in the fighting near Horod
neka in east Galicia, from August 14
to 17, the Russians lost 5,000 killed,
while the total German casualties was
eighty.
"If the enemy continues to squander
enormous quanties of ammunition in
addition to suffering heavy losses, his
final exhaustian Is inevitable," tho
correspondent says.
oo
DERATING THE
REVENUE BILL
Smoot and Penrose Make At
tack on Measure Want
Higher Tariff Levied.
Washington, Aug. 23. Debate on
the emergency revenue bill de'signed
to raise $205,000,000 was continued in
the senate today. A resolution by
Senator Penrose to send the bill back
to the finance committee for amend
ment to raise an equitable portion of
revenue from a protective tariff still
was pending.
An explanation of the expenditure
of the proposed appropriation by Sen
ator Fletcher, chairman of tho finance
committee, and an attack by Senator
Senator Smoot upon the measure, oc
supied yesterday's session of the
senate.
CORN DETERIORATES
STEADILY IN TEXAS
Washington, Aug. 23. The corn
crop has steadily deteriorated in
northern Texas, Oklahoma and much
of Kansas because of continued hot
weather and almost' complete lack of
rain, according to the National Weath
er and Crop bulletin. Tho weather has
improved steadily in the central and
lower Missouri valleys and low Ohio
valley. Rain is needed in the upper
Ohio valley and the lower lake region.
The potato crop is showing the ef
fect of the continued high temper
atures in central and northern parts
of the country.
oo r-
NO PEACE OVERTURES
MADE TO- BRITISH
London, Aug. 23. (4:55 p. m.) No
peace overtures have been made to
Great Britain, declared Lord Robert
Cecil, minister of war trade and par
liamentary under-secretary for foreign
affairs, in the house of commons to
day. Lord Robert's statement was made
in response to a question in regard to
"peace rumors" and the situation in
the Balkans.
"No overtures have been made for
peace," said Lord Robert. "There is
only one way in which overtures for
peace could be made and that from an
enemy to the government of this coun
try. If any such overtures were made
the first thing we should do would be
to consult with our allies."
As to the Balkans, Lord Robert said
the most important factor consisted
of the operations from Saloniki. The
allies' relations with the new Greek
government, he stated, wero thorough
ly satisfactory.
oo
LABOR SHORTAGE ACUTE.
Seward, Alaska, Aug. 23. The labor
shortage on the United States govern
ment work hero has become acue.
It is impossible at present to obtain
men to take the places of about forty
of the workmen who decided recently
not to work any longer unless their
eight hour day should start at the
time of leaving camp, and walked out.
In the meanwhile the work Is being
delayed. The engineering commission
will probably send to Seattle for more
laborers.
MINORITY OF UNION DELEGATION
DEMANDS IMMEDIATE ACTION
Men Believe Railroads Are Pursuing Old Tactics to Foil l ll
Brotherhoods , and Leaders Openly Express Fears of Sud- 1 H
den Break President Wilson Confers With Senator H
Newlands and Chairman Adamson of Interstate I
Commerce Committee Eight-hour Law H
For Railroads Being Discussed by lll
Congressional Leaders. Ml
Washington, Aug. 23 The rail
road employes committee showed
such marked signs of unrest today at
tho delay in the negotiations between
President Wilson and the railway exe
cutives that the leaders of the men
were alarmed and openly expressed
fears of their ability to hold them
much longer.
An employes' meeting this morning
was thrown into an uproar by
speeches of a minority which demand
ed immediate action unless the roads
accept the president's plan, but the
leaders succeeded in adjourning it
before any vote could be taken on any
of the various proposals. They said
afterward that, while the m'otion for
immediate action came from a minor
ity, it was strong, but they believed
the majority would be willing to give
the president a little more time.
Some of the men urged that most
of them go home, leaving the broth
erhood heads with authority to call a
strike if the railroads do not accept
the president's plan.
The meeting adjourned until lO
o'clock tomorrow morning.
Frequent shouts and applause were
heard a block "away from the hall.
Railroads Playing for Time.
"It is our belief," one of the com
mitteemen said, "that the railroads
are playing for time with the presi
dent, just as they have done with us
f or.tmanynionthsv' They -aretlrln'g
us out all right and the men are get-l
ting disgusted."
While th railroad executives con
tinued deliberations on what form of
counter proposal they shall make to
President Wilson's plan, the president
conferred with Senator Newlands and
Representative Adamson, chairman of
the Interstate Commerce committees
in congress about the bill to Increase
the membership of the Interstate
Commerce Commission by two. Sen
ator Newlands afterward announced
he would push his bill immediately.
Possibility of passing an eight-hour
law for railroads was discussed among
several congressional leaders, but no
definite program was evolved and it
was understood no action would be
taken unless the president's efforts
failed.
More Wilson Conferences.
President Wilson plans to see Sen
ator Newlands and Representative
Adamson again, probably late today,
and expects to receive another call
from the committee of the railroad
executives some time before tomor
row. There were many indications that
the railroad presidents were consid
ering the eight-hour day on condition
that some definite assurance be giv
en them that future disputes be arbi
trated. President Holden of the Burlington,
in charge of the committee of eight,
made the following statement:
"A meeting of the presidents and
managers was held at 11 o'clock this
morning and a recess was taken until
G o'clock. In the meantime the spe
cial committee of the presidents is in
session giving further consideration
to the various problems presented by
the situation."
Chairman Lee's Statement
Elisha Lee, chairman of the man
agers' committee, made this state
ments: "There seems to be some question
of the accuracy of the estimates made
by tho railways of what it could cost
to grant the demands of the train
employes, and I mako this , statement
to clarify the public mind on this
phase of the matter.
Coctly Demand for Roads.
"There has been no change in our
original estimate that to grant tho
demands would add a hundred million
dollars a year to operating expenses.
On the contrary, subsequent Investi
gations have confirmed tho substan
tial accuracy of that estimate.
"Confusion may have arisen from
the fact that we have estimated that
It would cost more than fifty million
dollars a year to make the conces
sions whjch President Wilson has pro
posed that we make. Tho difference
between the estimates is -due, of
course, to the fact that the president
has proposed that we immediately
grant only part of the demand and
that that consideration of the rest of '
them be postponed." '
Washington, Aug. 23. President H
Wilson summoned Senator Newlands '
and Representative Adamson, chair- j IH
men of the senate and house com-. ; jH
merce committees, to the White ' H
House this morning. It is under- , IH
stood he planned to discuss - with j H
them recommendations on the rail- H
road strike situation. The president's 1 H
plan for the settlement of the railroad ; IH
disputes would create a commission j jH
lo investigate the working of the i H
eight-hour day and collateral issues. : jH
Discuss Strike Controversy. , H
After their conference with Presi- H
dent Wilson, Senator Newlands and j jH
Representative Adamson said they jH
had discussed the strike controversy IH
generally, but that no legislation to JH
moet the situation had been gone over j iH
specifically. The bill adding two H
members to the Interstate Commerce ; H
Commission, which has already passed H
the house and will come before the : H
senate Friday, was one of the meas- . H
ures discussed. It was understood 1 H
also that the creation of a permanent H
commission to investigate such con- lH
troversies was one of the subjects H
mentioned. H
It was established' definitely today
that the railroad executives had de- H
elded to act as a unit in handling. thPrrtc.-vrV7 1
situation.- r- - jM
The program of the railroad execu- '
i fives as understood 'today, -was to deal
first with the principle of arbitration
and afterward with the eight-hour
In arbitration circles today it was IH
declared that both the president and jH
the railroad executives seemed to
be on the way to an agreement. IH
Three railroad presidents today re- jH
ported to the committee which is try- jH
ing to formulate an answer on . behalf iH
of tho roads to President Wilson's
suggested plan for meeting demands
of the union brotherhoods, the sub-
stance of their conference with the IH
President at the White House last
night. It is understood the purpose
of that visit was to secure Mr. Wil- jH
son's specific ideas on how the rail- jH
roads are to reimburse their treasur- jH
ers for the many millions additional jH
expenses which would arise out of jH
acceding to the president's plan for
an eight-hour wage basis. IH
The attitude of the president on
this subject was not disclosed, but 1
the attitude was considered signifi- jH
cant to show what direction the rail
road presidents are turning in an of
fort to reach a conclusion of their de-
Brotherhoods Grow Impatient. , jH
Tho big railroad brotherhoods were ,
impatient at the delay, but W. G. '
Lee, head of the trainmen's brother
hood, expressed the belief that they
would not held here past tomorrow. jH
A statement issued by the brother- j
hood's committee charging the rail- . jH
roads with Inconsistency in contend- ' SM
Ing for arbitration though refusing to '
arbitrate demands of employes on o j jH
number of minor roads not represent- jH
ed directly in tho present negotla- '
tions but said to be controlled by the
larger lines. , IH
Hill Is Strong Opponent.
Louis W. Hill, president of the
Great Northern railroad and one of ,
the strongest opponents of the eight- , i
hour day, declared in a statement .1 jH
given out today that many western 1 1
railroads in particular would have
scant earnings next year and that I jH
many western railroads would be J
thrown Into receiverships by an eight-
hour basis. ( j
"This is a time when Instead of j
being burdened with useless and un- t,
called for expenses, such as demand
ed by the brotherhoods, the railroads JH
should receive every encouragement
in order to meet the needs of the
country," he said. "Such an extra .
burden as contemplated by this eight
hour demand would not only cut off
all possibility of dividends and ex- ,
tensions, but throw a number of west
em railroads Into receiverships and ;
cripple their usefulness to the terrl- J
tory they serve." j;
The men, tired of the delay due to j
1
(Continued on Page 7.) ' WM
Governor Hughes at the Alhambra I
1 No Reserved Seats TomOrrOW at 2 p. III. lOpen to Everybody I
