V OL. XXVIII. MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1916.
TRIP TO BORDER
WAS INTERESTING
AN UNUSUAL SIGHT FOR PAL
METTO BOYS.-MADE HIT
WITH TEXAS GIRLS.
MEN ALL SAFELY IN CAMP
Conditions In Cantonment at El Paso
Little Different From Those at Styx.
-Weather is Not So Bad.-Hills
and Mountains.
In Camp in the El Paso Patrol Dis
trict on the Texas Border.-There
have been many interesting things for
the South Carolina soldiers to see on
the trip from Camp Moore below Co
lumbia to El Paso, Texas. But no
part of the journey furnished as many
surprises as the long ride of 820 miles
across the great Lone Star State.
The First regiment entered Texas
at Texarkana. a splendid city about
the size of Anderson, which lies half
in Texas and half in Arkansas. There
the farming country is good and the
girls are pretty. Dallas and Fort
Worth are big towns, modern and
progressive, and both over 100,000 in
habitants. From Fort Worth on
through the state over the Texas &
Pacific railway the country is rolling
and near El Paso mountainous. Mes
quite, sage brush and stubble make
up the vegetation and the principal
industry iz cattle. Great herds were
seen. One railroad man said that the
Hereford was the best beef cattle. At
several places fine herds of Hereford
were passed.
The prairie dogs, jack rabbits and
the old familiar South Carolina rab
bits were seen in large numbers in
the western part of the state.
The Mexicans lve iQ large numbers
all along the way and increase as the
border is reached. All the laborers
are Mexicans and they are very much
like the pictures of them shown in
the movies. Friday morning the train
passed a typical Western town with
its frame dwelling and old time
saloon pictured in all stories of West
em life. The guardsmen have seen
cowboys, ranchmen and all the char
acters of the West.
Just beyond Van Haren, about 130
miles from the border, the boys sight
e# on the left of the railroad a Texas
ranger with his 'ontfit. These in
trepid watchmen are the terrors of
Mexicans and have done fine duty in
guarding the border. *
At Sweetwater, which is on the
edge of the long monotonous alkai
district, the men detrained for a few
minutes' exercise and the band sere
naded the inhabitants who had gath
Bred at the station. The people all
along the route were very friendly
and the girls appeared to be "struck"
on the Palmetto privates. They
wouldn't have much to do with the
officers but "made up" at once with
the men and there was much exchang
ing of addresses and promises of cor
respondence. Like the moen of the sea
the South Caroliaa boys found sweet
hearts in every town, and especially
in every Texan town. And they are
well worth knowing-good looking
and attractive in every way.
The elevation toward the border
granudally increased until at Allamore
it is 4,555 feet above the sea level.
One interesting sight at this point
was the little Mexicans. Several
families live in houses very much like
negro tenements and the inmates evi
dently do not have much use for1
water.
From Allamore the road descends
somewhat. At Cerro Gordo the train
switched over to the Southern Pacinec
a'nd followed that line into El Paso.
For some distance out of El Paso
the train ran close by- the Rio Grande
close endughL to hurl a rock into Mex
ico. The train passed through sev
eral encampments of soldiers who
are guarding the border. Most of
them were National Guardsmen from
Northern States.
Alkali dust covered and colored
everything and everybody long before
the border was reached.
First Safe in Camp.
The First South Carolina regiment
of infantry under eommand of Col. E.
M. Blythe readhed the border and
wont into camp on the mesa seven
miles out of El Paso and something
over a mile beyond Fort Bliss. The
men were put to work at once clear
ing the camp site of mesquite, sage
brush and cactus and within a short
space of time the brush had all been
cut away and the tents pitched.
United States- regulars and National
- Guardsmen from all parts of the coun
try are encamped in and around El
Paso, it behag estimated that there
are 35,000 now 'ncamped here. and
25.000 more are ex'pected within the
next few days.. The 3l1 Paso district
is a part of the Southerni department
under command of Maj. Gsen. Fred
erick Funston.
H ills or Mountains.
El Paso is set at the foot of some
high hills, mountains, some call them
The hilis are absolutely bare of vege
tation resembling somewhat the sand
dunes on the coast. The absence Of
trees is the most notable feature of
this country and that with the sage
brush, cactus, mesquite (and alkali
dust gives something of the idea of
what kind of a camp site the South
Carolina boys have.
The range of hills encircling El
Paso continues up beyond where the
Palmetto boys are located. The high
range of bare hills to the west make
a picturesciue background for the
camp. From this range of hills down
to the Rio Grande the country is level
and the camp site is therefore admir
ably located.
The boys stood the four days' trip
well and detrained in good spirits and1
in fine health. They were glad to get
on the border and set to work put-I
gn ujtheir tents gwigoutfag delaj
and with ouoyant spirits. Wter IIneh
had already been run into the camp
The latrines had uiready been laid
off and details wader Capt. Justice
set to work buiidinig the latrines, the
lumber and all materials for the work
having been placed on the ground
prior to the arrival of the troops.
The sanitation and health conditions
of the camp are all that could be de
sired. The site is well selected.
Only One Difference.
The camp site is a good deal like
that at Styx except for the lack of
shade. Of course rain is almost an
unknown quantity in this country and
fc- that reason there will be more
dust but even here the Palmetto boys
ar. ahead for the railroad keeps oi
the dust from the Pennsylvania troops
who are encamped just across the
track.
Col. W. K. Wright, the commander
of the brigade composed of the twc
South Carolina regiments and thc
regiment from Florida, was on the
ground when the Ffrst regiment reach
ed camp. Col. Wright greeted Col
Blythe cordially and they 3gether
went over the camp and saw that
everything was done properly. Capt.
Young, Col. Wright's adjutant, gave
Capt. Mahon. Col. Blythe's adjutant
information about the details which
had been attended to and which were
to be done. Col. Wright is in com
mand of the Twenty-third infantry o'
the regular army, and ranks high in
the service. It is considered a splen
did thing that he will command the
brigade.
The men are glad to be here and
already have the appearance of veter
ans. All along the route where the
different sections stopped the people,
and especially the girls, compliment
ed the Palmetto boys on their fine ap
pearance and the way in which they
conducted themselves. There were
several places where the trains stop
ped and the men were given greetings
by the people but at no place was
there the slightest disorder or even
any suggestive remarks. Col. Blythe
and the officers and men of the First
are making a fine record for them
selves and are reflecting honor on the
Palmetto State.
The First arrived in camp with
1,006 enlisted men and 49 officers
Six enlisted men and two officers are
absent and will join the regiment
later.
Gea. Bell, who is in command of
the El Paso district, was a visitor in
the First regiment cacmp. Very few
of the men recognized him, but he
walked over the camp and took In the
general situation.
Aftermath at Camp Moore.
Camp Moore has ceased to have
more than merely nominal existence
the five quartermaster sergeants be
ing mustered out of service and the
officers iemaining on duty coming
into Columbia to finish their work.
The place where nearly 2,700 men
lived in tents for almost seven weeks
has reverted to its former estate of
loneliness and quiet.
Quartermaster Sergeants Sligh,
Lipscomb, Sally, Walker and Kohn
were mustered out of the federal ser
vice and the quartermaster corps of
ficers remaining on duty, but who quit
the service August 20, came into Co
lumbia. These are Majs. Glen and
Wheeler, Capts. - Burdette, Warren
and Withers.
Maj. 3. Shapter Caldwell, camp ad.
jutant, will remain a few days and
will be mustered out of service as
soon as he prepares his accounts for
the war department. He resigned sev
eral weeks ago as assistant adjutant
general, but his resignation has not yet
been accepted by Gov. Manning. No
ahrnouncement has been made as to
who will be appointed assistant adju
tant general to take his place.
Each troop train was 'made up of
nine tourist cars, one Pullman car.
one box ear, one baggage car and two
fat cars, except the fourth section,
which had one box car, and the regu
lar passenger equipment.
The Pennsylvania troops, 12,000I
strong, are encamped just across the
railroad from the South Carolina
troops. A great many of them have
come over and extended greetings tc
the Palmetto boys. They are a fine
body of troops and comprise a divis
ion under their own major general.
The South Carolinians are encamp
ed in a triangle formed by two rail
roads. They are about seven miles
from El Paso and beginning at 1
o'clock each afternoon shuttle trains
are run to and from El Paso every
hour for a round trip of 25 cents.
NAMES CHAIRMEN
ON FLOOD RELEF
CHAiRMAN OF THE STATE BOARD
APPOINTS MANY LOCAL
COMMITTEES.
MORE MONEY BADLY NEEDED
Federal Appropriation and Funds
Privately Subscribed to Date Are
Not Near SuffIcIent.
Columbiv-Pierre Mazyck of Co
lumbia, chairman of the state commis
iion on flood relief, appointed some
fays ago by Gov. Manning, has made
public the names of local commit
eemen .through whom his board will
act in several of the counties most
ffected by the freshets of late July.
The county supervisor is in each in
stance a member of the local commit
"Much 1;ore money than is avail- e
able or in sight at this time can beE
used to advantage in the relief of ac
talal distress directly consequent upon t
flood damage." said Mr. Mazyck. "The
federal appropriation must be spread
over the whole South and the funds-h
privately subecribed and placed in
the governor's hands are inadequate
Most of t11 manew rang~ ==
HON. J. G. PADGETT
WOULD YOU FURTHER TRUST A MAN to whom
you had given your money to invest, but who refused to
appear and give an account when called upon?
ARE YOU GOING TO FURTHER TRUST YOUR REP
RESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS, to whom you have given
legislative power. to act for you, but who has refused to
appear and give an account when called upon?
The rules of the Democratic Party very wisely provide
that campaign meetings should be arrange dso-that the of
lice holder might give an accounting to the people and have
his record examined and criticised and the different views
of the candidates on the public questions of the day aired
before the voters. Mr. Whaley has seen fit to IGNOE
the mandate of the Democratic Party, under whose rules
he is asking for re-election to Congress.
Astute Political Move
Before the campaign meetings commenced Mr. Whaley ,
made a very ASTUTE POLITICAL MOVE. He announc
ed through the papers that important legislation to come up
before Congress, more especially the Naval Appropriation
Bill, wherein SENATOR TILLMAN had inserted an amend
ment for over a million dollars for the Navy Yard at Char
leston for the extension of the dry dock, would keep him in
TVashington and prevent his attending the meetings.
We propose to examine into the truth of this ASTUTE
POLITICAL announcement of Mr. Whaley's. It will be re
called that the first campaign meeting commenced on Mon
day, the 7th (lay of August. and continued until Friday, the
11th day of August. The new.spapers announced before the
camp)aign meetings commenced. and surely Mr. Whaley in
Congress must have known more than the newspapers. that
the Naval Appropriation Bill, which involved the Charleston
items, would not b~e brought up for consideration until
Tuesday. the 15th clay of August. which was the week fol
lowing the campaign meetings. Further than that, the
Congressional Record, which is the official stenographic re
port of the proceedlings of Congress and which is published
and sent out day by day. shows that on Tuesday, the 8th
(lay of August. it was ofticially announced on the floor of
Congress by Mir. Kitchin and Mlr. Mann, leaders of the De
mocratic andl Republican parties, that the bill would not be
considIered until the 15th (Congressional Record, August
8th, Page 14307). This is conclusive that Mr. WVhaley
could have attended every caimpaign meeting and yet have
returned to WVashington four days before the bill was con
sidlered. Right here we will say thac when the bill did come
up on lTuesdlay. the 15th znd uwas considered and voted tup
on. as had been announced. M~r. WVhaley was present and
WIT! lOUT A WORD he did not even rise from his seat
and~ P'ROTEST when Congress refused to accede to the
Senate's amnidmenit co ncerning the Charleston Navy Yardl
Congre giot::ial Rccor. .\u 15th. Page 14706). but al
lo wed it to be throcwn out.
Had No Friends Nor Influence
!regard tc the failure of hiS amendmeints, appropriating
ove onmllion dollars to the Nav Yard. Senator Tillman .
ttd: "I could ha'.e held them (~amendments) and H AD
\OTl E IN Il I E >EN.\T E. for 1 have FRI ENDS
ENO' GH1 there who believe in .\Y HONESTY of-purpose
to sustain me. hut I deemed it b)est, everything considered,
to ive way and surrender bot4h items." Of cotirse, the
Seaordt have FRI END1) AND) ]NFLX ENCE enough to -
carry' his~ point in the Senate. hut tlie Senator very pointed
v savs "I deemed it best. every thing considered. to give
way ~and? surrendler b, th items.' M1R. WVHALEY DID) NOT
HAVE IK!ENDS NOR INFLE ENCE ENOUGH iN THE i
HIOU.S E TO SI>'T.\l\ T I IV E EN\TOR.
Senator ITillma n said: "Nw a' w.orti abou~tt W\hale. 1e
has helped me ali ii piosily can. IThe result showe. d that
the Sena tor haid little. suppocrt in the H use. C ould it be ex
"If I Have to Buy~
Lruh this latter source caie from VXor. . Dre
icond, by the way." Chester: J. F. McKeown, McKeown'; George
Lal committeemen so far ap- J. G. White. Chester, chairman; D. St. Get
.oite ar a folos:G. Anderson. Chester, supervisor. Col
Crkee C. Mlw.Smith, Gaffney. Union: Roy Fant, Lockhart; J. T. boro,
hiran; John M. Jenkins, Gaiffney, Jeter, Santuc, supervisor. Iter-borc
upervisor.Laurens: H. K. Aiken, Laurens, Will
Spanurg: H. A. Ligon, Spar- clhairman; Rt. L. Gray, Gray Court; man, e
~g, chairman; J. J. Vernon, H. B. Humbert, Laurens, supervisor. Kingst
~'elfod, upevisr.Charleston: W. H: Mixson, Char- supra
Yrk: suprvB1ankenship, Fort leston, chairman; W. P. Cantwell supra
TlJ. M. Starr, York; T. W. Boyd, Charleston, supervisor, burg,<
rsupervisor. Georgetownl: Olin W. Sawyer' angebu
Lcaster: 'E. M. Croxton, chair.1 Georgetown, chairman; -M. .L. Be- er
in; 3. .ar erTaxaw super- thnCm Field sueon- - - Cornler
pected that Mr. Whaley would have INFLUENCE and
POPULARITY in Congress when he WITH SO LITTLE
TACT referred to those fro mthe North who displeased him
as "narrow South hating Republicans' and "ignorant and
prejudiced Yankees."
No Important Legislation Before Congress
But Mr. Whaley says that there was important legislation
before Congress to keep him there, and refers to the Demo
cratic program. The Congressional Record shows that
there was not a single important contested matter before
Congress the week of the campaign meetings, and that only
local or private matters were considered. It further shows
that there was so little before Congress the WEEK of the
campaign meetings that Congress only held partial sessions
of a few hours a day, and some days not at all, as follows:
Monday, Aug. 7th, 12 noon to 5:25 P. M.
Tuesday, Aug. 8th, 12 noon to 3:37 P. M.
Wednesday, Aug. 9th, 12 noon to 2:25 P. M.
Thursday, Aug. 10th, No session whatever held.
Friday. Aug. 11th, 11:00 A. M. to 4:16 P. M.
Saturday, Aug. 12th, No session whatever held.
It further shows that on Friday, the 11th of August, Con
gress adjourned till Tuesday, the 15th of August, and from
then it adjourned till Friday, the 18th, of August. Surely
that does not show much work before Congress; it shows
that there was nothing important to engage the time of
Congress and which demanded Mr. Whaley's presence.
Other Congressmen at Home Campaigning
The Record further shows that during the week of the
campaign meetings that NOT A SINGLE ROLL CALL was
had on any bill. There was only one roll call held and that
was on a question of adjournment on Monday, August 7th.
(Congressional Record, August 7th, Page 14251.) At this
roll call there were 200 Congressmen present and 220 ab
sent. Among those absent were Congressmen Burns,
Finley, and Ragsdale, who were present i nSouth Carolina
meeting their opponents face to face on the stump, giving
an account of their records and telling their constituents
why they should be re-elected to Congress. On this motion
to adjourn Mr. Whaley voted "Yea."
Had Nothing Before Congress
The Record further shows that during the week of the
campaign meetings that Mr. Whaley did NOT RISE ONCE
and so much as address the Chair or engage in debate in any
manner, and if present in Congress sat as SILENT as a
tomb.
It takes no reasoning to see that there could be no impor
tant legislation without a quorum; and, further, that if any
important legislation was in sight or a contest to be had, a
MAJORITY of the Congressmen would NOT have -left
Washington. The Associated Press News from Washing
ton on the 7th of August, the first day of the campaign
meetings, spoke of the majority of Congressmen being
away from Washington, and further stated that they would
not be called to Washington until the week following the
campaign meetings here. The item is taken from the News
and Courier, of August the 7th, as follows: "Members of the
House, THE MAJORITY OF WHOM are away on vaca
tion, will be called to Washington NEXT WEEK for a vote
on the building and personnel sections of the Naval Bill."
Three Days' Notice to Absentees
However, even if Mr. Whaley had important matters to
come up before the House, then is it true, as claimed by him,
that it was necessary for him to remain in Washington to
look after those matters when there was an agreement be
tween the Congressmen that no matter would be taken up
where a contest was to be had until three (3) days' notice
should be given the absent Congresgmen? The agreement
is stated in Congressional Record, of August 7th, Page 14
252, as follows: "If any bill was brought up upon which a
contest was made, it was to be put over until three (3)
days' notice had been given."
No Voice in Naval Bill
Finally, when the Naval Appropriation Bill was brought
up) and the Charleston items referred to were stricken out
MR. WHALEY DID NOT RAISE HIS VOICE IN ITS
DEFENSE, and during the consideration of the other items
of the Naval Appropriation Bill on August the 15th, when a
report was considered, he was mute as a wall, and, of course,
even if he was sincere in remaining in Washington, his sin
cerity availed the District nothing and he had better been at
home.
Self-Made Martyr
Of course, Mr. Whaley's real reason in remaining in
WVashington was evidently to embarrass Mr. Padgett in
criticising his record before the voters; to discourage atten
dance at the campaign meetings; to relieve himself of con
siderable physical discomfort ; to keep down interest in the
race; to make it appear that he was of great importance in
Washington, and wvas always on the job, even to making a
MARTYR out of himself thru devotion to duty. As a mat
ter of fact he is a poor attendant upon Congress. The re
cords of the Sixty-thifrd Congress show 67 record votes
taken and Mr. Whaley stood at the FOOT of the South
Carolina Congressmen absent thereat, he being recorded as
not voting 29 times, or 43 per cent. of the roll calls.
Admits His Inability to Get Drainage
The most vital interest of the First Congressional Dis
trict, outside of the City of Charleston, is the drainage of
the lowlands; this being especially realized (luring the past
flood period. When Mr. Whaley made his first campaign
three years ago he stated that if he was sent to Congress he
would'have some of the machinery from the Panama Canal
lrought to this District for the purpose of drainage, dig
dy Seat in Congress I
iste r r.T.-L. Tohison, St.Crr~Leisi'Hildgvl.
chairman; J. D. Wimberly. Corerior Leic I.'~deii
ton: suvisoW. -~ok Wle Calhoun: 3. F. Crouch. Fort Motte: e
hmn W.R. Mo, Waltey 'r- W. J. Wise, St. Matthews. supervisor; F
airan;R. . JffrysWal Thomas A. Amaker, St. Matthews.
supervisor, chairmau. ci
hairuag; Gerg . 'BreaHen fIorry: D. A. -Spivey, Conway, chair. VI
tirm; GCHeore A.iMngvse man; Howard W. Blethea, Conway;d
e;oW. HamtKnsreA. C. Murrell, Conway. supervisor. d
Dr. Marion: T. J. Moore, Marion, chair,
abur: W L.Glovr, range-man; C. C. Rodgers, Mullins, super'
aIrman; M. Hungerpiller, O~ visor. jc
r, supervisor. -. Dariington: Bright Williamson, 1
ey: T. W. Mf Darlington, chairman; c. W. Min
; W._ n sIunerilsor.
.
BiTllly
ging canals and ditches; and he further promised the p
ple that he would have drainage legislation passed in
behalf. He has DONE NOTHING and admits now tha
is unable to do anything. His drainage 'bill is a pg
farce and, even if passed, wiM not give .the District any
lief. It provides for ONLY ONE FIFTH of the-cost
drainage to be borne by the Government; the other f
fifths to be borne by the land owner. However, even on
little drainage bill he has been UNABLE TO OBTAIN
REPORT from the committee.
In his letter to-the voters of Colleton, read at the firs
campaign meeting, Mr. Whaley said: "I regret ti 2 bill
introduced by me to drain the-swamp and wet lan s has not
been acted upon, but you will readily understan. why" my
bill has not been considered when the bill fer draining
swamp lands, introduced by the Speaker of the House, Hon.
Champ Clark, has never received consideration. When-the =
Speaker could not get his bill considered, and he has been
here over TWENTY YEARS, I know my constituents wilt
not hold me responsible for mine not being considered when
I have only been in Congress three years.' In other words,
he here admits that he was WITHOUT INFLUENCE OR
FRIENDS enough to have his little drainage bill considered
in three years, and he inferentially tells the people of the
District that he will NOT be able to have this done, even if -
he stays in Congress TWENTY YEARS. If this -is. true,
then both Missouri and South Carolina should change Con
gressmen. When Mr. Whaley talks about his drainage big;
we are all from Missouri-we need to be shown. .
Coat-tail Swinger
In his advertissment Mr. Whaley quotes Champ Clark, as
saying that it is a bad thing to change Congressmen. Mr.
Clark, being a Congressmen, would naturally think so.
When it is recalled that Mr. Clark is a politician aspiring to
the Presidency, we understand why, when requestedin br
der to make friends, he should give aid and encouragement
to Congressmen who are in a tight place fbr re-election.
However, Mr. Clark's letters are numerous and a joke ii
Washington. By referring to the Congressional Recrd, of
Tuesday the 15th, at Page 1503, it will be seen that it is a
habit of Mr. Clark's to write letters to the litt;le Congrese
men who are in tight places in the distriet. One of Mr.
Clark's letters is to a little Congressman from Illinoes, as
follows:
"Hon. James T. McDermott,
House of Representatives.
My Dear Mack: -
This has been a very eventful session- of Congress
and one in which the Democratic Party has done
more good for the United States and the American
people than has been done in 20 years.
I congratulate you on your faithfulness in atten
dance and in the steady and constant discharge of
your duties. You have been regularly at your pIs f ,
and have voted right.
I wish you luck in the impending campaign. The
longer a man stays in the House the better Repre
sentative he ought to make.
Your friend,
CHAMP CIARK"
Not Sectional Issue
Colonel Padgett, during his campaign, has not claimed
that he should receive the vote of the country counties simp
ly because he was born and reared on the farm, is a farmor
as well as a lawyer, and has felt the -hardships as well as
the pleasures of farm life ; yet Mr Whaley. in his adverfise
inents, has sought to draw this issue in order 'to line-up the
titf votes.
What Neighbors Think
-The people of Colleton County think a great <ed4 of Mr.
Padgett, and IF the people of Mr. Whaley's county thought
as much of him, he would have yo trouble to be re-elected.
Whenever Mr. Whaley has been opposed, the people of his
city are nearly evenly divided for and against him.
Three years ago when Mr. Padgett was in the race again
st four competitors, one of whom was a fellow member of
the Bar at Walterboro and a very popular man, the vote in
Colleton County was as follows: Padgett-1 105 votes;
Hugh es-3; Peurifoy-560; Von Kolnitz--5; Whaley-83.
Mr. Padgett is the present Senator from Colleton County
and when he was elected in 1914 his opponent rectived 815
votes to Mr. Padgett's 1681; his opponent being the then
encumbent. This shows what the people of Colleton Coun
ty think of Mr. Pa'dgett. YOU CAN JUDGE A MAN BY . -
WHAT HIS NEIGHBORS THINK OF HIM!
Record in State Senate
M\r. Padgett's record in the State Senate shows that he
took part in every important matter before the. Senate. He
is the author o-f the Employees' Liability Act, the most imn
portant and just piece of legislation safeguarding railroad
employees put on the Statute books in tweriy-five years.
He is also responsible for the retention of the free scholar
ships and free tuitions in the State institutions, safeguard
ing the same by an amendment protecting such scholarships
against abuse by proper investigations. He is also the
means of saving to the State taxes on about five million dol
lars worth of property, by having recalled a bill which had
p~assedl the Senate relieving banks from these taxes and hav
ing the same killed. Mr. Padgett's recordinteSae
shows that he is fully equipped to assu~meth imoan
dluties of a Congressman.
Won't Buy Seat
Mr. Padgett has waged a clean, manly fight. He stated
at the opening of the campaign at Walterbero, and he now
wishes to repeat:
Don't Want It.".
Florence~: ~ 53. P. Poston, Poston,
airman; James B. McBryde, Flor- Fr wesImn
ice, supervisor; C. E. Commander, Setnug-ieoiialgi
orence, chairman.prsigcuatnm dsreth
Clarendon: C. M. Mason, St. Paul,asrannth rlg ret t
airman; W. R. Davis, Silver, super- n rsigcubI h er e~
Kershaw: H. G. Carrison, Jr., Cam- Tels ilecM$OOO ol
n, chairman; M. C. West, Camdentat uune.A
pervisor. a Iswtotawt ysmh *,
Fairfield: T. K. Elliott, Winnsboro, woebsns eto
airman; D. R. Coleman, Jr., Winn ats-. atr
ro, supervisor. Ibce rg~~ d b,
ewerry: 3. M. Kinard, Newberry,
:~~Y.FiretSweeps-inrinan.
Sprtnbrg-'Fie riintig n
