TKX 't;ZXT.Zl
Tonight ' fclr, cooler; Tl-.l..
fair.
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad la The Ele will bring buyer
and artier together.
AND PILOT
VOL. XXX. NO. 195.
BRYAN, TEXAS, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1916.
PRICE $4.00 PER AKNUll.
ftii
. w .1 I
V
for
mans.
Crisco
Is pore and wholesome
and keeps well In warm
weather. V
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
UHFUHItU
mrnpi at UADimic oniNTC
uvuiiHi vmiiuuu i uimiu
it
mmm
DALLAS POPULATION
AT
162.Q3Q
Liquor Law Regarding Number of 8a
loona Allowed Causes Report by
CommlMlonera' Court.
BAYLOR ENDOWMENT
CAMPAIGN TO START
The Hermans Assumed the Offensive on the
Western Front, Striking Some Terrible Blows
and Making Some Gains I he Italians Are
Reported to be Still Making Successful
Thrusts Against the Austrians The Russians
Have Stopped the Turk Offensive Along the
Armenian Black Sea Coast Austria Claims
the Russian Advance Has Been Checked
Rumania Is Being Closely Watched, But Has
Not Decided on Course No Peace Overtures
Made to Great Britain.
Pat-A-Cake
A Prepared CAKE FLOUR, nothing to add
water Phone us about it.
Reid Bros.
AID FOR ORPHANS. -
Liberal Reaponae to Appeal for tha
,Buckner Orphane' Home.
The campaign that la being made in
Bryan this week for Buckner Or
phans' Home in Dallas becaaaa of the
typhoid fever epidemic raging In the
home, haa met with a hearty and
generous response aa shown by the
i h. Alio. S3Tha German enonse to a Question regarding peace PPnde4 list of donations.
. uin ;. i N..r. i. .h..i,i.. h. Pr.neh lines -rumors and the situation in the Bal- Tne campaign under tne auspices
AMunv.mp.M ' , - . ' of the United Christian
Future Under the Supervision
of Dr. 8. P. Brooks.
auth of Estroea. on the Somme front, ,kans.
'gained a footing at some points In the
trenches that had been captured by
tha French Monday, Paris announced
'today. The stuck In the Estrees re
lay Associated Tr ) (By Associate rrwui
tv.ii.. r. n. 41 Th ruinula- Dallas. Tex.. AUK. ZJ. uuiri i.ih
tlon of Pallas, according to. the offMpalgn by the iiapusis oi w.u. . --
clal certification of the commission-.the object of raising several wousana .tit . P.r, , ....
. h. cmmroller. I. 'dollar, additional for the endowment .preparation. North of the Somme tr-e
. . . ... !... n..i. i-niru at Waco .Germans violently bombarded the
162,030. Tnis is oasea on me sciimaa-iiuuu ubjiui (-
.i- nn.,i.,in f h. ri .crordlna'and other branches of that Instltu-. French first line.
to a census Just completed., of 31.379. 'tlon in various parU of the at.te. will Two heavy assaulU on the position.
The population of O.k Cliff, the prln- aoon be launched. This announce-. newly won by the British aouth of
...ww ii, , ih. ..m.'ment was made by the executive com- Thlgpval, on tha Somme front, ware
RAILROAD
MEN
Worker., is
i not denominational at all, but in
(eludes the several churches , of the
PERSIIiriOSmilLW'E
LOW DEATH RTE
Record for the Five Month. Splendid,
as Published by the Sanitary
Department
' (by Associated Prims.) '
Field Headquarters, Old Mexico, by
Wireless to Columbus, Aug. 23. Only
six deatha from disease, and a pres-
M , , , ent sick rate of 1 5-10 per cent for the
iclty. The committees doing the work1 , . ... .... . .,
' ' , American punitive expedition since It
Mexico more - than five
GROW
RESTLESS
Tire of Delay In Negotiation
Soma of Them Demand Imme
diata Action.
procedure, waa given at 26,244.
The" certification Is required under
the liquor law of 1911. under which
mlttee of the Baptist General cooven- made last night by the Germane, who
tlon. In session here. gained grouna in ine aw.n ir.ncn.is.
The campaign will have the active but were driven out London an-
the number of ..loon. In a commun-is'rvlslon of Dr. 8. P. Brooks, pre.l- noune.fc
of Banor Vnlversity. une nun- i iMn.
rBy AMOdated Press.)
Washington, Aug. 23. The era
poyea' committee showed auch mark
ed sign, of unrest today in the delay
it la'rerulated bv oonulatlon In tin l,,'lor 1 ' ' " " ' b"-"- - -
lty I. regUiatea oy popui.unn. in in", ...r,....,l hm. at tha Auatrlaa n. ,k. Mn... ..,,.1... In
absence of an official census the cen-1ar,,a inousana oonara ui um - - ...
. '., ,1 .u.'will h nut to the endowment fond of Unee In the Alpine region and on the considering the atrlka aUuatlon, that
at ii ai nainn nmrainuiniiif v sin inn i w-
are drawn from the several churches. . .
. ..... entered
me appeal ,s 10 ine cu.zen.n.p in ;month. WM fecord
general, without respect to denomlna-
tlon. race or nationality, and so gen-'. .... a,nATtm.n,
'the Udlet conducting the campaign
maw it tiaisi ViAan bai1 tvlaasMit
If there are any the committee has
.failed to see. they are kindly isked to
leave their donation;-w1flr,"'Tnetr
names, at either of the three banks.
The list of donations, as furnished
The Eagle to date. Is aa follows:
aus aa based proportionately on the (
acolastlc census la used. Oak Cliff,
however, Is In local option territory.
BOYCDT IS PLACED
ill
put '
the Waco Institution. "Sufficient extreme northern front according to the leaders of tha men expessed fears
funds" will be reatlied by a private Rome's announcement The Italian 0f their ability to hold the men much
solicitation for the enlargement of troopa carried strong Austrian posl- longer. The employes' saeetlng this
Baylor Vnlversity College of Medl- tiona in the Tofano region. morning was thrown Into an uproar
cine, located In Pallas. Dr. Hrooks, reirograa cisim. in. ivrmin oi- ty minority speecnes aemanaing im-
ln announcing hta plan, .aid the great .n.ive along tha Armenian Black mediate action unless tha roads ac
demanda of Texas for medical train- Sea coast has been stopped, and the 'cept President Wilson's plana.
UPLINES
All Railroads Ent.rlng Galvs.ton
Place Embargo on Freight for
Morgan and Mallory Lints.
(By AMoclataa prewl
tng made It Imperative for, enlarged TurVe wars driven back with tha aid
!Hilpment and facilities at the col- f tha Russian fleet
inge. The Austrian atatement clalma the
I These campaigns will be started In Ruaaiana have been unable to gain pects to receive another call from the
President Wilson plana to aee Sen
ator Newlands and Representative
Adamson late this afternoon and ex-
X W. Howell
Cash
Rev. J. J. Pipkin ....
W. S. Howell
Mrs. Js'annle Rhode .
Howell A Co.
Vlck Broe
Sam B. Wilson A Co.
'H. O. Boatwrtght ...
E. P. Parka
'Cash
H. N. Rohde
J. T. Maloney
STATE SOLDIERS
r s- v - -a-ai. .
WILL GET PAY
Galveston, Texaa, Aug. 23. All rail
Toads entering Galveston have placed
an absolute embargo on all freight for
the Morgan steamship line and a par
tial embargo on freight for the Mal
lory line. This announcement was
mada at noon today.
the near future, and will completed ground from the Teutonics In Gallcla, railroad executives alma time before
a .a I- I a... aft .1L I. ul. a a If a I L.s lTt
W. E. Saunders
Will Saunders ,
efore the next Baptist General con- Volhynla and tha Carpathian region, tomorrow. Many Indications are that
ventlon. during the first part of 1917. f Political developments In the Bal- the railroad presidents are consider-
In tha meeting at which these an--4tans ev.rahadow In Int.reet even the lag an eight-hour day on the eondl
nouncements were made, the plan of Important military operations thtrstlons that some assurance be given
conducting evangelistic work among -but today's news throws little light on j them that future disputes will be
the soldiers on the Texaa border was 1ha situation. Rumania, of course. Is arbitrated.
R. H. Harrison..
..? 25.00 (By Associated Press.)
.. 10.00 1 San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 23. A
. . 10.00 fund of 1750,000 has been made avail-
. . 10.00 able by the war department for the
.. 10.01 (' payment of state troops oa border
.. 15.00 j duty. General Funston aald this
.. 10.00 .amount waa sufficient to pay the
5.00 guardsmen for services up to and In
.. . 6.00 -eluding July. Some state troops have
5.00 considerable back pay due them. Gen
5.00 eral Funston explained the delay was
5.00 caused by the failure of the army ap
5.0A proprtation bill to pass on time,
150 - f
.. 1.00
1.50
Dr. B. 8. Resd 1.00
ISSUED
Parker-Astln Hwd. Co..
2.50,
J. I. Brock 1.00
R. Emmel ...
Kacter A Co.
also discussed.
"I don't like to have my husband
prop up a newspaper at the breakfast
table. Do your v "Oh. I don't know.
It keeps the grapefruit from spatter
ing aa far as It otherwise might."
Louisville Courier-Journal.
Auntie "Well, Tommy, what have
you learned In school today?' Tom
my "How to whisper without
Ing the lips." Chicago Herald.
BILL INAUED
being most clos.ly watch.d.
Rumania Hadtatea.
Berlin. Aug. 23. Rumania has not
decided whether or not she will enter
the wsr, in the opinion of a person
'characterlned by the Overseaa News
-Agency aa a "distinguished dlpjomat
Ist. and who Is especially conversant
with Rumanian affaire."
By Associated Press.) J
Washington, Aug. 23. The armvj aj0 ptaca Proposals.
appropriation ui. witn me rrvwj. indon. Aug. 23. No pence over
artlrloa of war. waa passed by the turea have been made to Great Brit
Senate today and now goes to the jn Robert Cecil, minister of
FORM
fj
1
1.00
1.00
FOR HOT n
II
I BEAT
i Hnlmea Rroa
fMh . 00 Agricultural Department at Washlnf-
nrpni inc in uniTU
IILUULMIIJ III IILHUII
hi
Cash 2.00
Jesse Hensarllng 1.00
Cash . . .....
Cash .
H. EsUH ....
Allen Smith .
(By Assodated nM) Sanders Bros.
Washington. Aug. 23. The Nation- jr. o. Ferguson 1.00
al gnardsmen showed a lower slck. p. Hall
mia than tKa twaiilara avaln this v .fc... u
....... - i, m iiiaiiuini ...
ton Warn. Against Outbreak
of Thla Past
to
.50
Washington. Aug. 23. Warning
100 watch for tha army worm has 'been
j'aa Issued by the Department of AgrKul
I aa ture to tha people In the Atlantic
state. An unusual aoundanre or tne
j 0a moth of tha true army worm In Mary-
nn land. Virginia and the District of Co-
week. The w.r department records. 8. j0hn,on i.0o 'umD, Indicated the pcsiniuiy oi an
published today showed two deatha oeort. simons
from apeuUlriti. and one irom scar- cMn
mov- House, where the amendment la ex- rade. declared In the House of Com- let fever among the guardsmen on t.mB T.m.
jpected to be accepM- niona todsy. This was made In re. the border.
uuLiu'iri.nnnnrrrv-i i "-"'
Before Prices Advance
On Hoosier Kitchen Cabinets
Prices must ndvanct is tht official announcement made by the
HOOSIER COMPANY. Our allotment at the old price is LIMITED
only a few of each pattern is left these may go any day. When this ad
vance was announced the HOOSIER COMPANY sold 20.000 cablnetts in
three weeks. This shows the popularity of the "HOOSIER".
Come at once before our allotment is gone.
1. $1.00 puts the Cabinet in your home. .
2. 3)1.00 weekly quickly pave for It
3. The low CASH PRICE fixed by the factory pre'vails strictlty.
4- No interest, no extra fees.
S. Your money back if you are not delighted.
To all customres buying this week we will give ABSOLUTELY
FREE, one Casserole set of 20 pieces, worth $100. FREE to you with a
HOOSIER this week. This offer is limited to only six sets.
First SIX LADIES get these beautiful casseroles sets absolutely
FREE.
Cash
- Impending outbreak of thla destruct
a Ive peat The moths, the entoraolo-
5 oo alsta of the department report were'
i$0 Uylnar their egg. during the first
week of July, snd as It takes from
three to four weeks for the ester
"That man prides himself on saving P"lars to mature, their rresenca
exactly what he means." "Does her b,n Xa "ul,a PPVlW'
exclaimed Miss Cayenne. "Don't you ." nonld tn9
admire him?- "I don't know. Saying ,p4r,ro.nt Myg( to dlacov.r this peat
precisely what you mean may be a U younger sUges. before It haa
virtue; and then, again, it may be reached a large site and haa commit-
only carelessness." Washington ted Irreparable damage to growing
Star. crops, especially grasses ana grama.
we Dorrr want your bawk account
But We Do Want Your Attention !
We want to remind you that we sell every:
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
W. T. JAMES, Furnlturo
j r
