"'(K-iW1
THE DAILY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1916
NUMBER 305
60? TICKETS SOLO
TO HALL BENEFIT
Tom Taylor and E. S. Steph
ens Are Now In Lead
as Salesmen.
SOLD
Prof. L
SO YESTERDAY
M. DeFoe Will Be
In Charge on the Open
ing Night.
Eight j tickets were Mild jesterday
for the benefit performance of the
new Hall Theater The committees,
were finishing the (list day campaign,
which accounts, far the difference be
tween the sale of the first two dajs
The .standing in the Salesmen League
was upset, when the committee com
posed of Tom Taylor and K S. Ste
phens went into the lead Jacks,
Evans, and Mcllarg were in a slump,
hut swear vcngeince todav Tavlor
anil Stepheiih. lead vos-terda) with 31
tickets sold
The total number of tickets, sold is.
now floT and not I '.no as 1 (-ported in
this morning's pi ess. The committee
will continue to work this week, and
the territory of each committee will
be changed One committee has not
been heard from The committee to
cover the University has been changed
and is composed of 11 E Lucas, l,eslic
Cowan, and H K Watson
"The newness of the work is wear
ing off. and the committees are get
ting down to business." sail S F Con
ley, chairman, at the meeting this
morning. "We hae the majority cf
the people to see vet. and hae hopes
of reaching the mark set at the start."
Prof. I M Defoe was appointed
to have charge of the program for the
opening night
A short speech will be made bj a
local speaker before the performance
starts. This will necessaril) be short
because of the length of the benefit
show.
"We will moe into the office today,"
said 0 B Wilson, who has charge of
the new theater, this morning. "Tick
ets may be leserved after 9 o'clock to
morrow morning in the south office at
the theater. There is no additional
charge for the reservation, anij when
the tickets sold by the committeemen
are presented, we will reserve them
an) where in the house We will an
nounce the act and the pictures to
morrow that will be shown at the
opening performance "
Tickets should be reserved as soon
as possible, and an) one missed by the
committee may secure tickets at the
1ki office and hae them reserved
The additional subscribers for tick-
ets vesterday were:
A H Shephard 2, K F Schwartz 2,
W T. Aider"on I, J. At Ilaker 2, Will
Flelcher 2.
(Jem Cafe 2. William Mcllarg 2
J. 11. C.uitar 4, Jack Taj lor 2, Cen
tral Hank 2.:, C W Furtney ."
Kd jr. Price 2. Hartley Hanks 1,
Gray Henry 2.
F M. Brant ::.
J. I. Henry 2. C. 1) Porter 1, J. It.
Jordan 2, H. It. Jackson 1, J. M. Bat
tcrton 4. Percy Klass 1, M R. Conlej
2. tee Walker 1, Italpli Finley 2,
George Starrett 1, John Moscow 1. X.
T Cientry 1.
THE CALENDAR
September 14, l"i. 10, Thursd iy. l'ridiy
ninl siturdiy University en
trance ex iminations
Se.pteml.er IS. ill, i"0. Mom! iy. Tuesday and
VAYdnesd ij t'lilversltj registra
tion. s ptemher L"0, Wednesday Opening Con
vocation. University Auditorium,
11 .i m
Sept. mlirr 21, Tliursilav I'nhersity class
uork in ill divisions Pectus
MRS. MK1 IKlNfIS .SLVTE MIES
Funeral .services Tnniornnvllurial In
(he ('nliiiiililu (ciiicfcn.
Funeral sen ices of Mrs Mary Fran
cis SlUe. who died jesterday after
noon at her home on Hinkson aenne
where she has lned for more than
half a centurj will be held at 2-30
o'clock tomorrow afternoon Thej
will be conSJucted by the Itev. W. S.
Clair Bulla will lie in the Colum
bia cemetery.
Mrs. Slate was born in Madison
Cunt). Kentucky in l.'.O At the age
of eleven mouths she moved with her
parents, the late Hezckiah and Xanc)
Speaks .to Columbia, making the then
arduous trip on horseback
Mr- Slate was a member of the
Cluistian Cliiiich She was married
twite From her first mari.ige, one
child. Boone Beed. who lived with his
mother at the time of her death, sur
vives Ilor second husband was the
late John (I Slate Of this union four I
children survive. Mrs .. K. Drops of
Centralia, I,. J Slate. A. Y Slate anJ
Jchn I. Slate of this city Besides
these there also survive one brother.
W II Speaks of Oklahoma, and one
sister. Mrs (Jeorge McKinney of California
RAILWAY PRESIDENTS
ARE GETTING UNEASY
Heads of Systems Are Split
ting Up on Terms With
the Employes.
"UP TO WILSON NOW"
Some Railroad Chiefs Would
Leave Matter in the
Hands of Wilson.
HARMONY
IS KEYNOTE ;i-
OFSTATE DEMOCRATS
THE WEATHER
l-or Columbli and Vicinity: Fair to.
night and Thursda) ; warmer.
I'or Missouri: Kair tonight and Thurs
diy; winner Thursday, and nest am!
north portions tonight.
H'n
ther Conditions
Commirree Orrnni'pc Wiflv'. T'1""; are small low pressure areas over-v-uiiuillUCC
organizes Vir.n,lvlng the St. Lawrence Valley, the .Middle
All Satisfied, Says James
E. Boggs.
CERTAIN OF VICTORY
Ity I'nltrd Press.
WASIIIXTOX, Aug. 23. The three
cornered fight under waj here to avert
a nation-wiJe railway strike appeared
this afternoon to have run into a jam.
Leaders among the railroad presi
dents said they could not see how any
conclusions could be reached in less
than fort) -eight hours. At the same
time, in another part of Uie city, lead
ers of the railroad brotherhoods' rep
resentatives were planning wajs of
Young Men's Democratic
Cluh to Have Room at
State Headquarters.
I The center of high pressure should piss
H was the .east of Columlili lite tonight. Hair neath-
liiilf. and extreme Southwest, but throni.li
iit nearly the entire Interior, an exten
sive hum of high pressure centered In
Kansas, dominates weather conditions on
tin- map this morning.
It Ins ciused cooler weather from the
KocLy .Mountains In he Atlintt.. vt
the change ranging 10 degrees or more
from Oklahoma and Kansas northeast to
Lake Krle. Kair skies also have prevailed,
except for a u irruw strip from Little Hock
to Montre-il where showers resulted from
the mixing of the cool and warm air
misses of the adviuclng "high" and the
ritrcitlng '-Inn." Thundcrshoners occurr
eil at Jv'evv Orients and Koswell, due to
Iim-.i1 conditions.
BOTH PARTIES FAVOR
A
NEW CONSTITUTION
"rfarnionv 'vith a biz
IkcMiotc of the Democratic gathering !;Lghu'd,,Ts!i:;ry:,ur, s,,f""" "r"v"1
at Jefferson City yesterday," said
Republicans and Democrats
Would Submit Question
to Assembly.
A MEETING IS HELD
Progressive Convention at
Kansas City Also Votes
In It's Favor.
State Committeeman Boggs of this
city upon his return this morning,
"Everyone from Gardner dpvvn to
smallest hanger-on seemed to be in
tent upon victory at the polls In Xo
v ember, and everj thing else was sac
rificed to this main end.
"The opposition to Cowgill melted
flu-nv ttlintl tbn cbncclnll Ti .nnia qnil
holding in check an uprising on the,. ' '
. . I he was unanimously chosen chairman.
The only office that seemed likely to
part of the biotherhood represcnta
fives An unanimous strike demand
might come from tliein, it is said
reitiilu'vys inorr pltform
Terms Administration ruder Governor
Major 'Incompetent.".
Itv United Press.
JEFFERSOX CITY, Mo, Aug. 23
The Missouri Republicans toda)
adopted a state platform 'which termed
tiie state government under the Major
regime "incompetent" and indorsed the
principles of Americanism and nation
al preparedness.
The platform was adopted shortlv
before 2 o'clock after the platform
committee had been working on it all
night.
The platform favors:
Workingmen's compensation law,
good roads, river improvement, enact
ment of a pme-secd law, reformation
of court procedure, home rule for the
cities, rural credits, pensions for the
blind, non-partisan management of the
renitentiary, amendment of the elec
tion laws and favors a new constitu
tion framed on a non partisan basis
WASHIXGTOX, Aug. 2.5. Marked
evidence of uneasiness began to ap
peal toda) among the sity railway
presidents gathered here.
Tliej have no solution for the situ
ation President Wilson called them
heie to solve. They are divided among
themselves and unable to agree upon
a proposition that might soften the
effect of the President's plan for
averting a national railroad strike.
Still holding out against acceptance
of the S-hour day they did not ex-
develop a fight was secretarj-, and,
when the state candidates, in caucus,
indorsed "Doc" Brydon, he was elect
ed by a 3 to 1 vote.
"Contrast this with the Republican
meeting, and jou can understand why
we Democrats are so confident of car
rying the state this fall, both for the
national and state candidates."
"Doc" Br)don, who was elected
secretary of the state committee, has
been revenue clerk in State Auditor
Gordon's office. He resigned yester
day, however, and went at once to
St. Louis to take charge of the Demo-
Loral Data.
'the highest temperature In Columlili
jesterdiv wis Ml, JI1(j tm. eit last
night was H; precipitation, . relative
humidity 2 p. m. jesterdiy, .V, er cent.
A Jeir ago vesterd iy the highest tem-
per.uure was sj, anil the lowest
Ipitatioii, .().
The Almanac.
.Sun rose today, riiTO i. m
fi..1l p. m.
Moon rises 1J-.11 a. m
pre
Sun sets.
The Temperatures Toelat
7 l. Ill .. , T.s 11 j in 7
s a. in. iJJ IJ m. 7H
! n. in l!7 1 p m 79
HI a. in T-.' -' p. m so
hibit the defiance that was noticable cratic headquarters in that city. Dale
S. Flowers of Albany, Gentry County,
was unanimously elected treasurer of
the state committee.
The Young Men's Democratic Club,
of which J. E. Boggs is president, also
met at Jefferson City jesterday. They
vv hen President Wilson first announc
ed the scheme for settling the ques
tion Some even are talking among them
selves of agreeing to the 8-hour day
and letting the consequences take
hlMKiLS' Till II, IS KESET
Vlsltlntr Mrs. G. F. Troxell.
Mr. and Mrs. E J. Deal. Jr. of St
Charles are here for a week or more
the guests of Mrs Deal's parents, Mr
and Mrs. G. F. Troxell. Mr. and Mrs
Deal came here by automobile, arriv
ing Saturday afternoon. Both are
graduates of the University Mr. Deal
Is operating a large farm near St
Charles
Mill Be Heard bj Justice Birknell on
Antnist 31.
The case of the State o' Missouri
versus C. R Kimbals, In which II. B
Ta.vlor of Harrisburg is the plaintiff,
came into Justice J. S. Bi'cknell's court
tills afternoon. The trial was reset
until August 31 on account of the fact
that some of the witnesses from Jef
ferson City failed to appear-
It is alleged b) Taj lor that on July
3, Kimbals, posing as the agent of the
Capital Cify Iron, Metal and Wool
Company of Jeftorson Cit), purchased
from him rags, rubber, brass, copper,
7ink and paper to the amount of ?j2.
.10 and gave the plaintiff a worthless
bank draft drawn on the Capital City
Iron, Metal and Wool Company for
the above amount.
care of themselves. "Let the result iare lo na'e a room at lne Democratic
be on President Wilson's head," they headquarters in the Leathe building,
said These, however, include few of rit' U'3- an(1 " be a bureau of the
the piesidents of the bigger railroad s,atc C0Inmittee.
sv stems. C'hait man Cowgill of the state com-
The latter arc working as hard as mlttce u" within a few days appoint
the) ever worked in their lives to a" c1lCcl'"e committee of seven to
avoid making the concession. Thev nac actho cnarKe of the coming
toiled late into the night and were caI"Paign tour of the committee will
still at it today. ! 1,c frni the state committee, while the
The full number of railway presi-'ot,ier ,hrce w,u be seIccted from out
dents met at noon to hear the report s,,ie I)J' Mn Co"S'll This commit
from the sub-committee nf n.vht nn,i ,ce was me necessary because of
the committee of three, who called ,ho """'cldness of the state commit
on the President last night. Xcither ! l0' wIlic1' co,lsists of thirty-two mem-
comnnttee, it was said, was prepared) s
to report a decision on any acccpti-
ble plan.
One committee said that one thing
was certain and that was that there
would be no action by independent
roads without agreement by all.
Strike talk broke out again among
the brotherhood men today. Thomas
Donovan, the Boston and Albany
chairman, proposed at the morning
session that the brotherhood chairmen
retuin to their homes, leaving the
four heads here to arrange their
strike His effort, however, was
crushed.
Mr. and Mrs. Rovst- Return Home.
-Mr. and Mrs I. O. Ro)se, who have
been visiting .Mrs. Rovse's parents,
Mr and .Airs. R. T. Tandy at 203 South
Eighth street, left this morning for
their home in St. Louis where Mr.
I Rovse is a teacher in the David Rank
in School of Trades.
Mill Discuss Profanit).
"Is profanity on the increase?" is
the topic for discussion tonight at
the pra)cr meeting of the Christian
Church, Walnut and Tenth streets.
The meeting will start at 7:45 p. m.
HAM TO PULL HOMN CIIIM.EYS
Mk l'i Over Hiilldimr Costs J. ('.
Schvvalie $100.
Xeglest In supervising strictly the
construction of a house in accordance
with the Flue Ordinance of the City,
caused J- C. Schwabe trouble, time,
and an added expense of almost $ 100.
Mr. Schwabe had at the time of the
beginning of the construction of a
house on Seventh street, given the
contract to a firm of two men, one of
whom, in the intervening time, had
sold out to the other. In the mi-up
the ordinance was forgotten, and the
chimneys were completed when Earl
Kurtz, chief of the fire department, af
ter inspecting the flues, called atten
tion to the neglect to live up to the
ordinance.
Mr. Schwabe made his pleas to the
Major and several councilmen, but
assureM them that he would make no
protest if Kurtz decided the ordinance
held good in this particular case.
The chimne.vs have already been
pulled down and ethers in accordance
with the ordinance almost completed.
COOK-I'EARY QUESTION AGAI5
MISS ("OKI PEACHEK IS BETTER
A. It. Owlnn to Ames.
Albert R Gwinn. of DeWitt, Mo,
who was graduated from the College
of Agriculture last spring, left for
mcs, Iowa, to take graduate work
leading to a master's degree in the
agricultural college at that place. Mr.
Gwinn will specialize in the soils de
partment.
'Condition of Girl Injured In Runaway
Is Improving.
Miss Cora Peacher. whose skull
was fractured In a runaway accident
Monda) night, has at last partially re
covered consciousness and is thought
to be on the road to recovery, her con
dition is still serious, however, and
it may be several days before the
doctors can pronounce the young lady
completely out of danger.
THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM
The prliiilp.il points of the IK-iimrntlc Mil roles the provision for absentee voters.
,......-., , i, pcricn nv .sicuitor .lames "" "" sk iiw. me eorporitlon Rtiper-
-v Keeil ami
the lie
.i.iurson i ity, are as follows: in-' and sU,i..rvlsi,n act and the eommis.
itworil of Ilrmorratie rinm. '"" -'overnment law.
nil as n ported tv Scuitor James l" "' skv liu. the eorporitlon Rtiper-
eil and as adopted mi lulmouslv liv , " ' '! """ l"llk''"-' revision liw. the
leniocritle r. n!,..i """"," ,y ' ' ' providing for the employment of ciin-
Hm.Kr.itIc Convention jesterdiy at vi-ts on piihlie works, the Insurance rat-
Vlsiling nt Mexico.
Mr and Mrs. G W. Roberts and
daughter Ollic, of Oklahoma City,
Okla, who have been visiting friends
and relatives here for the last three
weeks, went to Mexico on a visit this
morning.
Commission to Meet in September.
I!y t'nited 1'ress.
WASHIXGTOX, Aug. 23. The Joint
American-Mexican commission w ill
begin Its meetings the first week In
September, it was announced today,
after a half-hour conference between
Secretary of State Lansing and Mex
ican Ambassador Arredondo. The ex
act date and place will be settled at
the conference between the commissioners.
G. 11. Scolt Goes lo St. Louis.
G. II Scott, former manager of the
Hudson-Phillips Garage here, (now
the Hudson Garage), left last night
for St Louis to assume his duties as
vice-president of the Hudson-Phillips
Motor Car Company of St. Louis
M. T. Gentry To Address Club.
The Commercial Club luncheon will
be held at 12 o'clock tomorrow at
Harris". D. T. Gentrj- will speak on
"Insurance." This is the first of n
series of talks before the Commercial
Club, by representatives of branches
I of businesses in Columbia.
Ihe Iiemocratle Concress exposed and
ilrme out the .ircuibnl lohln hen.led by
Hie .Nitiiiinl Vluiufacturer's Associa
tion It is n.m orcunlziiiK a system of
ui.l Links mililing firiuers to obtain
ouir time loins at reason ible rates. It
his li,.,l firniers bj pi uig asrlcultnr.il
liiipliimiits on the frtv list, bv lucre iMiik
tin appriiprlitiou ami powers "of the Aerl
Milturil licpirtimnt. unci by appropriit
liiir -sin,i fr jjooii roids throughout
the KMiiitrj The Congress practically
abolished pini. s by establishing a sound
I."r,r"V ..""1 ''.uiklnij sjxtem under the
I ederil Iteserve Act.
Labor I.rclslatlon.
'Ihe Ileum, rule Concress abolished jrov
eminent bv Injun. Hon, gave labor and
ririii orcinizitlons statutory recognition,
abolished Involmitarj servitude In the
merchint mirine. enuted an eight-hour
!i'" i,'.'r. ?"""'? -"."I children workers In
tin- District of Columbia, extended the
eight hour I in to Aliskan emploves, pro
vl.bsl for ln.lustrlil education, abolished
1. epllbll.au ston-w.itrb motli...iu i.. ,i. .
fr-,',r'.', I,rn''el for the construction of
"'""""I" in goieniment navv vards in
vestLrited and e-xpos,.,l Intolerable labor
conditions of West Mrgiuli and .Vllchlgan
niities- pissed the workingmen's conipen
sitlon liw for government emploves, es
tibllshcd .i bun in for the tndv of child
.Use is,, .mil prohibited the shipment of
fiitnrj products of child hbor In inter
st ite commerce.
Up.or.l of Ilrmorratie Legislature.
The Missouri Ilemo. ratlc Legislatures
hue eiiicteel antitrust I uvs ms en-...iiri.-liig
agricultural, mining and diirv
Industries, adevpnte labor and strict usury
I ins and l ins supporting the public
school svstem. the public school fund, the
university, the normil ali.Aiu .i .
eleemoKiinry Institutions.
Recent Enartmrnts.
Among recent I ins h-iss.i nrA .i,.. -..,
lion ..1 1 Illllllie service eommllnn
1 urm Interests.
We hive submlttesl i coiistitutionil
.imi-iidment providing for the est iblish
mi lit of a state land liink and crcsllt sys
tem nnil hive alreadv pissed a 1 iw hr
tl.uliting nlth the Smith Lever Act. emb
ling the agrlcnltnril Interests to receive
rcil.ril aid. v fivor the enactment of
lins to protect the farmer from adulter
ated seeds and fivor n revision of the
.1 iir lins to meet the needs of modern
I lining
To Support Health Hoards.
The pirtv stands for ade.imte financlil
support of heilth b.nrds and heilth of
ficers ..f the stite. counties and cities, for
ioe m iinten nice or county tuberculosis
hosplt lis and public nurse service, and
for the .are of lcicudcnt ex Confederate
soldiers Thev pledge the eople tint the
business of the stite shall be conducted
esonomlcallv and efficiently, providing for
minion or cstinntlng tlie revenue ex
penditures for the full underst lnding of
the llcneril Assembly.
.eu State Constitution.
The pirty favors the submission by the
o. -xr ..ii.ru .vsscmlilv to tne voters or
VINsourl of the ipipstlini of a need of a
new state constitution They pledge the m
sehes to the e-nutmeiit of a just and a.Ie
iu ite uorkmen's comiensitlon Ian
I'ulillc Ednratlon.
The pirtv reifflrnn their devotion to
the cause of public cdiieatlnn and pledges
its support to developing the clnracter of
tie youths of the tite They also pledge
themselves to the Improvement of rural
s. uooi and countrv roi.ls anil will
Report of r. S. Ensign May Reopen
Old Dispute.
By United 1'ress.
WASHIXGTOX, Aug. 23. Upon the
report of a youngster of 28, an en
sign in the United States navy, may
depend a reopening of the Cook-Peary
controversy over the Xorth Pole. En
sign Fitzhugh Green of Missouri, who
represented the government on the
Crockcrland expedition, has reported
to the Xavy Department his return to
Copenhagen, but he makes no men
tion of having located Crockcrland,
which Pearj- claimed to have discov
ered during his dash for the Pole.
According to Pearj-, he saw the new
continent from the altitudes in North
east Greenland. Friends of Doctor
Cook have disputed the existence of
this new continent along with the
other claims of Pearj-.
Congressman Kelgesen of Xorth Da
kota has endeavored to have the gov
ernment investigate the Peary claims
and, coincident with indications that
Green failed to find Crockerland, It
was learned that the government hj-
drographic office has removed the
continent" from its charts.
Ily Special Correspondence.
JEFFEHSOX, CITY, Aug 23 Moth
the Democratic and Republican state
platforms as finally adopted contain
planks favoring the submission to vot
ers of Missouri of the question of a
new state (constitution. These planks
were presented to both parties by a
committee from the Xew Constitution
Association.
The plank in the Democratic plat
form was approved by Col. Frederick
D. GarUner. Democratic nominee for
governor and offered to the committee
on platform by Sam B. Cook, of Jef
ferson, City, Democratic nominee for
the state senate. It reads:
We favor the submission by the next
General Assembly to the voters of Mis
souri of the question of the need of a
new state constitution."
The plank In the Republican plat
form was written by Judge Henry
Lamm, Republican nominee for gov
ernor, and is as follows:
We favor the submission by the next
General Assembly to the voters of Mis
scuri of the question of a new consti
tution. We declare in this connection
that a new constitution should be
framed as a non partisan instrument
and therefore we recommend that the
submission be made in a form to pro
vide for an equitable and just repre
sentation of all political parties In
the constitutional convention."
Some opposition In each party com
mittee was manifested but the final
vote in favor of adoption was prac
tically unanimous.
Representing the Xew Constitution
Association at the various committee
hearings were Dr. W- H. Black, Pres
ident of Missouri Valley College, Mar
shall; George H. Forsee, of the Kan
sas City Commercial Club; Benjamin
A. Wood and Charles M. Hay of St.
Louis; J. II. DSikbrader of Washing
ton, Harry E. Sprague, of Kirkvvood.
and 'Walter Williams of Columbia.
The Progressive party in session
at Kansas City adopted a similar resolution.
XEW ARMY niLL PASSES SEXATE
Calls for $2T,7,:,9fi,.Vin Is Agreeable to
President, Son.
fly United Press.
WASHIXGTOX, Aug. 23. The $267,-
596,530 army appropriation bill, which
paj-s for Uncle Sam's increased land
forces, passed the Senate todaj.
The bill includes the Senate's orig
inal revision of the articles or war.
which had not been changed since
100 j ears. In place of Representative
Haj's revision, which exempted retir
ed army officers from court martial
and which made President Wilson ve
to the measure last week.
Underwood's amendment, prvlding
that no one under twentj'-one jcars
should be permitted to enlist without
consent of his parents, was beaten, 25
to 23.
McPHEETERS CAST SIGX CHECKS
HEAT FORCES AMJ0URXMEST
Catholic So-Convention.
National Federation of
cieties Cuts Short X. Y
By United Tress.
XEW YORK, Aug. 23. Because of
the intense heat, an effort was being
made this afternoon to wind up the
business of the Fifteenth Annual Con
vention of the Xational Federation of
Catholic Societies by tonight, instead
of holding sessions Thursday, a3 orig
inally planned.
Kansas City was chosen as the con
vention city for 1917.
With one exception, that of a vice
president, all officers were re-elected.
.,,,-. - ,-- -w.,r ,-oiuiuis-sion, me i in conclusion, tlie pirtv urges co-open
est ..lis hmeut ,.f a stlte hlghnaj depirt- tion In orginltcl activity for the develop
... .V ,. ""';-T.1"f ,stnte aid for schools. I nie-nt of Southern Missouri and the stiti
...r .... .,,. .,i iuC ,,.riru en pinions ami at Urge.
Hoes Mesert German Trenche;-
By United Press.
SOCTHAMPTOX, England, AJg. 23.
An officer arriving from the front
today related that just before the Big
lerite with the nitloml government with r, i. !..,., ,,.. An, omn . f
tli it end In view. u" ucf"" """ """ """" ""' "
xiN.onriv Development. the German trenches and despite the
The nlitform Indorses the records of whistling and shouting of their mas-
the Mite and nitloml n.lmlnlstritlon. piy- ' , ---jM .- v ,. t - a
inii- i high tribute to -semtors stone and ters. proceeded across .No Mans Land,
i.eei md to Congresimm Chimp LIirE.
In conclusion, the pirtv urges co-open-
deserting to the English. The Tom
mies hailed It as a good omen and
charged si&ging.
His Vouchors Are Turned Mown by St.
Louis Treasurer.
By United Press.
ST. LOUIS, Aug. 23. City coun
cillor Dauss this afternoon informed
the board of police commissioners
that it would be advisable for vice
president Shechan of the board to
sign the monthly pajroll voucher of
the police department. Dauss said any
voucher signed by Samuel McPhcet-
crs, who has been ousted by Lieuten
ant Governor Painter, might be de
clared illegal.
Two vouchers signed by McPhect
ers jesterday for equipment for po
lice stations were turned down by the
city treasurer on advice of Dauss.
Telephone Company Iluys a FonL
The Clink-scales Garage sold a Ford
roadster to the Columbia Telephone
Companj. The machine will be used
for repair woric
Visiting Mrs. R. T. Tandy.
Mrs. M. E. Fountain of Excelsior
Springs is here visiting her sister.
Mrs. R. T. Tandy at 205 South Eighth
street.
3
M
w
J
