BARRE DAI LY
VOL. XX NO.
136.
RARRE, VERMONT. WEDNESDAY. AUGUST i3. 1910.
PRICE. ONE CENT.
THE
TIMES
BRITISH CLOSE
IN ONTHIEPVAL
ON WESTFRONT
And Have Guillemont Al
most in Their Grasp,
While French Have Lost
"Some of the Ground South
' of the Somme Which They
Gained on August 21
TEUTONIC DEFENSIVE
IN WEST TENACIOUS
Claim Made in Berlin Is That
the Russian Advance Has
Been Held Up Along the
Entire Front Italians
Gaining Ground in Alpine
Region
pushing hack our advance detachment
On one end of the line, the covering de
tachment which attacked on Aug. -0
Vest of SeroK, Bulgarian forces more
than a division in strength in order to
delay their "march, has fallen hack wi the
Struma. All the passages of the river
are solidly held bv the allien. On the ex
treme left wing, the Serbian army, after
a very hot battle lasting two days, which
was undertaken to retard the advance of
Political developments in the Balkans tn tcm wjj, nf tj)P Bulgarians, haa re-
overshadow in interest for the moment itt.ken its principal defensive position in
ALLIES CAPTURED
SERIES OF HEIGHTS
IN THE BALKANS
But They Admit That Bulgarians Have
Thrust Back Both Wings The
Fighting Is Being Conduct
ed Furiously,
Paris. Aug. 21.The allied forcea have
captured a series of heights went of the
Vardar river on the Saloniki front, ac
cording to the nllieial report issued by
the war office last night. On bth winj!
advance detachments have fallen back
before the counter-offensive of the Rul
rariaiis. The text of the statement fol
low:
"The battle continued on Aug. 21 on
the whole front of the allied Brmie on
the Saloniki line. In th" renter the British-French
forces have violently lwim
barded Bulgarian positions on both sides
of Lake IViiran, while our infantry es
tablished itself on the southern spurs
of the Bele mountains.
"West of the Vardar our troops have
occupied a line of height near I.jumnira
and have maintained their ositions at
all points in spite of violent counter-at
tacks bv the enemv.
"The Serbian army has continued its
progress in the mountainous lone ne
tween the Cerna and Moglcniea rivers.
On the two wings the enemy at the cost
of very heavy losses has succeeded in
LEASED LINES
OPPOSE PLAN
For Reorganization of Bos
ton & Maine R. R. After
Receivership Petition
$13,500,000 IN NOTES
DUE AUGUST 31
Directors Voted That Fur
ther Extension of Notes
Is Inexpedient
even the important military operations
there, but to-day's despatches throw lit
tle new light on the situation from cither
political or military standpoints.. In con
nection with the attitude of Rumania,
the course of the Russian campaign in
Bukowina close to the Rumania frontier,
Is being closely watched. Latest advices
from Teutonic sources, however, declare
that the Russians are being held up by
the strength of the Teutonic resistance
along the entire front. On the western
front along the river Somme the British
continue closing in on Thiepval on the
left bank and apparently have Guille
mont on the right almost within their
grasp.
the neighborhood of Lake Ostrovo."
GERMAN OFFENSIVE
FAILED TO GAIN
ON EAST FRONT
GERMANS REGAIN
GROUND LOST
NEAR ESTREES
After Intense Artillery Preparation They
Got a Footing in Trenches South of
Somme, Lost Aug. 21 They
Also Violently Bombard
ed North of the River.
Paris, Aug. 23. The German troops;
attacking the French lines south of Es
trees on the Somme front, gained a foot
ing at some points in the trenches cap
tured by the French August 21, the war
office announced to-day. The attack was
launched alter a period of intense ar
tillery preparation. North of the Somme
the Germans violently bombarded tho
French line.
ITALIANS WIN
STRONG POSITION
An Thrusting at Austrian Lines in Al
pine Region and Have Been Victo
rious in Dolomites and
Travenanzes.
Rome, via London, Aug. 23. The Ital
ians are making a strong and successful
thrust at the Austrian iines' in the Al
pine region on the extreme northern
front, according to to-day's war office
announcement. The Italian troops have
carried strong Austrian positions in the
Tofana area in Dolomites and in Travenanzes.
RUSSIAN FLEET
AIDS IN TURK LOSS
Offensive Undertaken Along the Arme
nian Coast on the Black Sea Has
Been Stopped, According to
Petrograd Report.
Petrograd, via London, Aug. 23. The
offensive undertaken by the Turks along
the Armenian .Black sea coast has been
stopped and the Turkish forces driven
back with the aid of the Russian fleet,
the war office announces to-day.
BRITISH HOLD FAST TO
THEIR NEW GAINS
Germans Delivered Two Heavy Assaults
on Newly Won Positions South of
Thiepval and Gained a Foot
ing But Were Driven
Out Again.
London, Aug. 23, Two heavy assaults
cn the positions newly won by the Brit
ish south of Thiepval on the Somme
front were made last night by the Ger
mans. They gained a footing in the
British trenches but were driven out
again, the war office announces.
The story of the British capture wis
told in last night's official statement as
fellows:
"Between Martinpuich and Parent in
we wained a further 100 yards of enemy
trenches. South of Guillemont we car
ried out successful enterprise in the
enemy' lines and captured one of his
machine puns. Hostile artillery was
quieter to-day along our front.
In Guillemont th
Petrograd Reports that Germans Failed
in Their Attempt South of Brody
Where Russians Were Ad
vancing on Brody.
Petrograd, Aug. 23. The Germans re
sumed the offensive yesterday south of
Brodv where the Russians were attempt
ing to approach Lemberg from the north
west. The war office statement of to-
Boston, Aug. 23. Tending conference
among the numerous interests affected,
no immediate action is expected to-day
in consequence of the petition for a re
ceiver for the Boston A Maine railroad,
which wag filed in federal court yester
day. It is pointed out that if some, form
of reorganization can be agreed upon be
fore August 31, when $13,500,000 in notes
come due, it is possible that the directors
will reconsider yesterday's decision that
the further renewal of the notes is inex
pedient. That there is no hope that a plan
which would meet the wishes of all the
leatsed lines could be evolved, is expressed
on all sides, however. The next formal
step will be the filing of the road's an
swer to the receivership's petition which
was made by the International Rubber
company of New Jersey.
The papers in the case, mado a matter
of record to-day, showed that a receiver
was asked on the ground that the com
pany's credit was so poor it cannot issue
bonds at a reasonable price and is unable
to raise monev on short term notes to
meet outstanding obligations, which in
clude over $13,IMiO,000 Boston A Maine
notes and $2,300,000 Vermont Valley rail,
road notes which are endorsed by the
Boston A Manic, falling due August 31.
Most of these obligations had been ex
tended from time to time while awaiting
the outcome of plans for reorganization.
After a long meeting, the directors de
cided they had "reached the end of their
rope in the words of one of their num
ber, and issued the following statement
LARGER APPEALS
WERE DISMISSED
Most Important Was That of the Harri
son Granite Co. Bumham Mead
ow Tool Sharpening Machine
Co. Also Lost.
the. Hungarian frontier.
SEC. LANE AT HEAD.
day says the Germans were repulsed. The thro, h pre(,i(ient J. p. Hustis:
Russians nave captured two neignts on ..Jn the opjnjnn f tne directors of the
Boston A Maine railroad it is inexpedient
to attempt a further renewal of th'
notes falling due August 31. A creditors'
petition for a receiver has been filed in
the I nited states district court, and in
due time the Boston A Maine will tile
its answer thereto."
Tb leased line, notably the Concord
and Montreal and the Connecticut River
roads have been strongly opposed to a
plan for reorganization to which most
of the other elements in the Boston A
Maine system had asserted. This plan
would have made the system a single
corporate entity, wiping out existing ren
tal charges some of which are. claimed to
be excessive. Lnder a receivership, such
leases may be broken by order of the
court.
The. Boston & Maine railroad and its
26 leased or controlled subsidaries oper
ated 2,300 miles of road, and 4,300 miles
of track in Maine, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Xew York and
Canada.
Of Commission to Try to Settle Mexican
Difficulties.
Washington, I). C, Aug. 23 Secretary
Lansing announced last night that the
American members of the joint commis
sion to undertake settlement of differ
ences between the United States and
Mexico, would be Franklin K. Lane, sec
retary of the interior, Judge deorge
Gray of Washington, Del., and Dr. John
R. Mott of New ork City.
All of the commissioners have ac
cepted their appointments, the Mexican
members were named some time ago anT
arrangements for their meeting will be
made immediately by Secretary Lansing
and Eliseo Arredondo, General Carranza's
ambassador-designate. Virtually, the
only question to be decided is where
the session shall be held. I he Mexicans
are understood to prefer some resort on
the Xew Jersey ooast.
Secretary Lane, who - will head the
American group, was the first member
selected. Associate Judge Brandeis was
President Wilson's second choice, but
after a conference with Chief Justice
White he decided his duties would not
permit hira to serve.
ATTACKED LIKE A DOG.
the
Began to Chew His Victim About
Neck.
Hubbardton, Aug. 23 Clifford Arch-
ambault of this town, took several bites
out of the neck of RuhscII Bruso, also
of Hubbardton, and otherwise misused
his victim, and as a result is held for
county court on a charge of mayhem.
Archambault was arrigned yesterday be
fore Municipal Court Judge L. R. Pratt
of Fair Haven and pleaded not guilty.
State's Attorney C. V. Poulin of Rutland
introduced sufficient evidence to warrant
holding the man for county court and
bail was fixed at $1,000 which was not
furnished.
Archambault arrived in town Monday
evening from Rutland, having come by
way of Lake Bomosecn and the stage.
When he mounted the steps of II. M.
Redfield's store it was evident that he
was considerably under the influence "of
liquor.
Producing a bottle from his pocket
Archambault asked Bruso to drink with
him. Bruso declined and when Archam
bault insisted he told the latter to go
away as he did not want any trouble
with him. This angered the drunken
man who struck his victim two or three
blows and then fastened his teeth in j
Bruso's neck, munching away for some
time before a bystander, using the tac- j
tics employed to separate fighting bull
dogs, got a strangle hold on Arcliam
ba ult's neck.
Archambault was arrested bv Consta
ble Root on a warrant issued by State's
Attorney Poulin.
MEN GET UNEASY
OVER THE DELAY
Strong Minority at Their Meeting To
day Tried to Demand Immediate Ac
ceptance of President's Plan by
Railroad Heads.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 23. The rail
road employes committee showed such
marked signs of unrest to-day at the de
lay in the negotiations between Presi
dent Wilson and the railroad executives
that the leaders of the men openly ex
pressed fears of their inability to hold
them much longer.
An employes meeting this morning
was thrown into an uproar by tho
speeches of members representing a
strong minority which demanded imme
diate action unless the roads accepted
the president s plan, but the leaders suc
ceeded in adjourning the meeting before
any vote could bo taken. They said aft
erward that they believed the majority
is willing to give the president a little
more time". Some of the men urged that
most of them go home, leaving the broth
erhood heads with authority to call a
strike if the railroads do not accept the
president s plan.
What will probably transpire to have
been the last board of rII authority
meeting in 101 for the consideration of
tax appeals was held In the court room
at Pity hall last evening. Several sppel
lent appeared in person and ntlvrs gave
evidence of their dissatisfaction by
proxy. The largest appeal and the most
vigorous protest was registered by W. A.
Murray for the Harrison Granite Co.,
who lost his ease when the question came
to a vote. Judge H. W. Scott presided
at the third and last meeting of the
board and 10 other members were pres
ent. Some of the gab bacilli that ha-s
raged in the eouncil chamber seemed to
have infected the board and what with
the introduction of much extraneous
matter the night was well spent before
adjournment came.
For the Harrison company, Mr. Mur
ray represented that the concern's stone-
shed and personal property near Center
street had been unfair!) appraised by
the assessors, Aasessor MarRn Kilev
had something to sav in the absence of
his colleagues, O. .1. L. Matthews and
A. M. Rossi, who made the assessments,
and just liefnre adjournment ' it was de
cided to dismiss the appeal. The com
pany's inventory, with figures entered by
.Manager .Murray and other figures sub
stituted by the assessors, was introduced
as evidence by the appellant, who
claimed that his concern had been taxed
$2,8oO in excess of a just appraisal. He
declined to take oath that the state
ments made bv the assessors were untrue
and stated that he did not take advan
tage of the opportunity to inspect the
inventory ai prepared bv the assessors
and filed in the city clerk's office.
Appellant was questioned at length bv
Justice of the Peace I). J. Sullivan and
others. Comparison of the Harrison
company inventory with other stone-
shed inventories made some of the mem
bers feel that other manufacturers had
been fortunate in their apprf:sals, but
the motion to dismiss the Murray ap
peal was not opposed.
For the Biirnliam's Meadow Tool
Sharpening Machine company James
(irearson protested against an inventory
of $1,500. Comparison with similar lev
ies was made and the case dismissed.
Albert Tonguay's appeal on a property
and poll tax of $7.20 wa.s dismissed anil
John Downs, who appeared to protest the
payment of a $1.20 tax of a cow, decided
to meet the assessment rather than make
his mother pay. 0, A. Pacnnet insisted
that an assessment of $fl.2o0 for his
Summer street property was too much,
but the appeal was dismissed. Three
young soldiers, Alfred 0. Edwards,
Charles Knutson and John McDonald, at
present with the 1st Vermont regiment
on tne .Mexican border, had their poll
taxes abated in accordance with the mo
tion which carried at the previous meet
ing. Acting on the request of William
Diack for an extension of time in which
to pay his property tax. the appellant's
circumstances were considered and it wa-s.
voted to have the collector carry his cost
bill to the city council if the tax is col
lected any time within six months.
roil taxes were ahatert for purposes
set torth as follows: Said Corev, minor;
Alonzo Taylor, ill health; James Ceake,
resident of Barre Town; Elmer Farnham.
ill health; James Good, deceased (re
bated); George Elias, Giovanni Comolli,
Hertl Dino, Guido Rossi, I'baldo Soldi
Albert Corey, Manuel Hurbosa, Vineenzo
Ossola, duplicates; W. J. Maeneil, Wil
liam A. Morrison, deceased; Thomas R.
Holder, deceased: John Robertson, dupli
cate; William R. Obrien, deceased; Al
fredo Resabella, not a resident April 1.
The ease of James Anderson, who asked
for a poll tax rebate on the ground that
he pays taxes in Virginia, was dismissed.
5-STORY HOUSE
COLLAPSED
More Than a Dozen Work
men Were Caught by
Falling Debris
TWO MEN MISSING,
OTHERS ARE DYING
City Building Department
Charges That Inferior
Cement Was Used
PROPOSE PAVEMENT
ON WASHINGTON ST
New York, Aug. 23. Two men are
missing, several are dving in hospitals
and a dozen others were injured to-day
as the result of the collapse of a five-
story brick tenement building which was
in the course of construction in the
Bronx to-day. Between 30 and -10 work
men were in the building and half of
them were caught in the debris.
Officials of the eitv building depart
ment charged that inferior cement was
used in the wall and made a dozen ar
rests, including a member of the con
tracting firm in charge of the construc
tion of the building.
The police later placed the number of
the missing at six. One of the injured
died soon after being taken to the hos
pital and seventeen others have been
taken to hospitals, many of whom will
die.
BILLS FRAMED
FOR PRESENTATION
IN LEGISLATURE
CHILD HAD BIG FALL.
SHOT IN SHOULDER.
their ground, although losing hcaily by
Pritish cannon fire.
North of Porit-res the British advanced
en a front of half a mi and are etab
Lshed at a n-ad junction just outside
Jdouquet farm, the day report declares.
A further adtance brought the Pritish
w.tla I J00 yards of TLirpvaL
Barton Young Man Evidently Intended
Suicide.
Barton. Aug. 23. Walter Simpson, a
young farmer of 18 years, living on the
Duck pond road, shot himself at about
9 o'clock last night in the road in front
of his home. It is believed he intended
committing suicide. The bullet which
was fired from a 3S calibre revolver, went
high and lodged in Simpson's shoulder.
l.ermans cling to j Ir. F. R. Hastings was railed and hur
But Got Only a Lump on the Head Al
though Striking in Gutter.
When the infant child of Mr. and Mrs.
Cesairo Maccari tumbled out of a second
story window of the B. Tomasi block on
Xorth Main street yesterday afternoon
and sustained no more serious injuries
than a bump on the head In falling on a
cement gutter walk, folks living near at
hand said that the child must have had
a golden spoon in his mouth. Others
thought he had a rabbit's foot tucked
away somewhere In his mother hubbard.
But Dr. John H. Woodruff, who was hur
riedly summoned to the Maccari apart
ment, found no traces of the spoon and
was inclined to scout the theory of the
rabbit' foot, inasmuch as the child, on
account of the intense heat, was rather;
scantily clad. j
Internal injuries of anv sort were like- i
wise missing and a lusty howl from the!
Speaker Weeks Arrived in Montpelier
Last Night and Chairmen of Va
rious Committees Are Also
on the Ground,
John E. Weeks of Middlcbury, speaker
of the House of Representatives, arrived
in Montpelier last evening, beiiig the
first legislative official to be on hand for
the special session which convenes at 10
o'clock to-morrow morning. Speaker
Weeks was joined to-day by Senator
H. C. Cady of Xorthfield. chairman of
the finance and military committees of
the Senate; Col. H. S. Foster, chairman
of the House military committee; Stan
ley C. Wilson of Chelsea, chairman of the
House ways and means committee, and
Redfield Proctor of Proctor, chairman of
the House appropriations committee.
Gov. C. W. Gates will be in conference
during the day with those above men
tioned and plans will be made so that the
legislators mar be busy from the time
the roll is called.
The members of both houses and the
employes, doorkeepers, sweepers, pages,
etc., are expected to start arriving in the
city early this afternoon and probably
nearly all will be here to-night. Bills
have already been drawn up and it will
be decided to-day whether or not they
will be introduced in the lower or upper
branch of the assembly.
TIMOTHY H. MILLS
Well Known Man Died After Very Long
Illness.
Timothy If. Mills, a native of Maine
and in his younger years a sea captain.
passed awav at 4 o'clock yesterday after
noon at his home on the Montpelier road
after many years' illness with arthritis,
a form of rheumatism. For the past
eight years he had been unable to follow
the occupation of tool sharpening, a
trade that he followed during the latter
part of his life; and for the past seven
years he had been confined to the bed.
Timothy Hall Mills wa born in Vinal
Haven, Me., May 23, 1S47, being the son
of Capt. Jonas and.Sophia (Arey) Mills.
He came of a long line of sea-faring peo
ple and as a boy became attached to sea
life; and when he became old enough he
shipped as mate to his father, later be
coming captain of a ship himself. He
followed that for a number of years,
later taking up fool sharpening. He
came to Barre a quarter of a century ago
and worked for many year for Jones
Bros.' Co., until forced by ill health to
give up.
He was married on Jan. 1, 1800, to
Lydia Hal! of Vinal Haven, and she sur
vives him, having been his faithful com
panion during the years in which he was
practically helpless because of his ail
ment. Two children survive, they lieing
Mrs. L. R. Hutchinson and Charles E.
Mills, both of Barre. Another son. A. L.
Mills, died in Binghamton, X. V., two
years ago. There are also three grand
children. Geneva Marguerite Mills and
City Council Took Action Last Night
Looking to Laying of New Road Be
tween Spaulding and Perry St.
Vote Not Unanimous.
Tangible evidence that the city council
intends to lay a permanent street in the
city somewhere some time was at
hand last evening, when the committee
on streets introduced a resolution provid
ing for a cement highway on Washing
ton street. Iwtween the Spaulding and
Perry street intersections. Not all of
the councilors are for cement as against
paving, but the resolution passed to i
second reading, and in the week inter
vining before the next session, figures as
to cost will be obtained and the Barre &
Montpelier Traction A Power Co. will be
anked to do its share in the proposed
work.
An hour sufficed for the council to
complete its business before the memliers
vers shoved into the stalls for a tedious
session of the civil authority board, which
met in the courtroom at S o'clock. The
ftreet committee's resolution provides
lor a cement highway several inches in
depth, and proposes to have the abutters
and traction people contribute in its cost.
On the roll-call Aldermen Reynolds and
Shurtleff oposed the passage of the reso
lution to its second reading, Mayor Gor
don and Aldermen Glysson, Healy and
Rossi supporting. Mr. Reynolds was op
pohed to acting on the resolution until
the attitude of the street railroad could
be learned, and Alderman Shurtleff
seemed to be inclined toward granite
paling. Both agreed that the money to
b appropriated by the city and the state
money should be expended on a main
thoroughfare. Alderman Bruce said lie
would like to see something started,
whether on Main street or Washington.
R. S. Currier, county supervisor of
highways, was there to prod the council
men a bit on their inactivity. It devel
oped that the sum of $1,000 was prom
ised bv the state for permanent road
work and that Barre is the only town
or city in the state that has not got
busy this season. Mr. Currier thought
that it was getting pretty late to begin
operations ami urged action. He did not
think that conditions on Washington St.
warrant the use of granite paving, al
though he believed the state would match
money for paving or cement, the ce
ment highway, it was represented, would
SIDE CRUSHED
BY GROLT, JOX
Michael Cough Almost In
stantly T .d in a
Bar: Quarry
HE WAS RUNNING
AIR DRILL NEAR TRACK
Impact of Car with Buffer
Knocked Box Off He
. Leaves 8 Children
cost $1.40 per yard, as against $3.25 for
granite paving.
Some very pertinent remarks anent at
mospherical conditions near the Willey
street intersection on North Main street
were passed by Mrs. J. IVumgould, who
threatened to protest to the state board
of health if measures are not taken to
abate the sewer nuisance in her neigh
borhood. She called attention to the
inconsistency of permitting a sewer to
pollute a district where the taxpayers
are inhibited from rearing pigs. There is
always a shadow of an odor, Mrs. Drum
gould said, on lower Xorth Main street,
but the recent hot weather has aggra
vated the nuisance, the climax having
been reached Saturday and Sunday, when
all windows and doors had to be closed
Various plans for extending tho sewer
cutlet were discussed before the com
idaint was placed in the hands of the
committee of the whole.
Street Supt. J. C. Wilson was there
with a verbal report on the excavations
lit front of the Gordon block on Xorth
Main street. His report was an answer
to J. W. Gordon's protest against paying
some ..i0 for the excavation and subs?
Arthur Kenward Milk of Binghamton 'fluent repairs to the sewer. Mr. Wilson
and Paul Damon Mills of Low ell. Mass. j made it plain that crooked pipes owned
Mr. Mills was the last of a family of five
children.
For nearly half a century he hud been
a Mason, having joined the Moses Web
ster lodge in Vinal Haven the year of his
marriage, 1MS9. He also belonged to
Hiawatha lodge of Odd Fellows in Barre
and the Barre lodge. Xew England Order
of Protection, as well as the tool sharp
eners' union.
The funeral will be held at the resi
dence on the Montpelier road Thursday
afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev. B. G. Lipsky
of the Hedding M. K. church officiating,
and internment will be in Hope cemetery.
rrieiuls are requested to omit flowers.
GRANGE AT PICNIC.
PHYSICIAN KILLED HIMSELF.
Dr. Stacy W. Boyle of Middlebury Sui
cide at Colon, Panama.
Five Organizations Met at Caledonia
Park for Outing.
Fair skies and a not unfriendly sun at
tended the first annual joint picnic of
five of the Washington county granges
at Caledonia park Tuesday forenoon and
afternoon and aided in making the af
fair a decided success. Grangers to the
number of 20 gathered from Montpelier,
South Barre, Cobble hill. Last Montpelier
and Shady Rill in Middlesex, many of
them coming by automobile. The public
was also invited and turned out in num
bers to help the grangers enjoy what
promises to be a big annual event in the
years to come.
The crowd began to gather early in the
morning, many of them having risen
with tho sun in order to Bet the chores
done and the cows out to pasture so that
thev could get an early start, and not
until thoughts of milking again disturbed
them did they begin to depart. A vari
ety of sports and a danco in the pavilion
with music furnished by Geddes' orches
tra made up the program of events. A
basket lunch at noontime and a more
or less constant patronage of the soft
drink stands alone interrupted the proceedings.
In the afternoon a baseball game that
Struck in the back bv an 800 pound
grout box which fell from a grout car at
the J. K. Pirie quarry this morning, Mi
chael Coughlin, aged 50, was fatally in
jured, the chest cavity being broken in
and death ensuing five minutes, after
wards. The man was runnini an air
drill In the quarry yard and was Lend
ing over, intent on his work, apparently
not hearing the approach of the car,
which was descending the track from the
grout heap, Lfis position was near the
end of the track and his back was to the
car.
When the car reached the end of the
track the impact with the buffer caused
the grout box to fall off the car and
strike Coughlin. The box was emptv
but even so was very heavy, the man be
ing borne to the ground and pinned there
until his fellow workmen rushed to his
aid and lifted the weight. It was seen
that he was hurt severely and Dr. K. H.
Bailey was summoned. Before the phy
sician could arrive, the man had passed
away. A casual examination showed
that the whole left side had been crushed
in, whether from the first blow or from
the weight of the falling box could not
be ascertained. The remains were taken
in M. J. Whiteomb's ambulance to Last
Burre and later were brought to Perry &
X'oonan's in this city.
Meanwhile a call had been sent to
Bnrre for Fr. P. M. McKenna, the resi
dent pastor at Graniteville. Fr. .1. Turcot,
being in Winooski; but before the Barre
clergyman could get started word was
given that the man had passed away.
Mr. Coughlin was one of the best
known men in the Barre quarry section,
having resided there rfrarly 30 years. He
was born in Ireland but came to the
Cnited States when a young man. Ho
was married 25 years ago. and he leaves
his wife and eight children, as follows:
Daniel, Henry, Anna, Man', Francis, Mi
chael, Edward and Ileen. There arc also
two brothers, Daniel Coughlin. who re
sides in Montpelier and John Coughlin,
who lives in Massachusetts. The de
ceased was a member of Robert Emmet
court, Catholic Order of Foresters. Ho
had worked for J. K. Pirie about six
years.
TWO AUTOS DITCHED
AFTER COLLISION
by Mr. Gordon were responsible for the
trouble, and said thatfjtn erroneous no
tion of where the responsibility rested
might have ben gained from, the fact
that pipe borrowed from the city some
time or other bad been used in complet
ing connections to the block.
A written report from Overseer W. J.
Clapp of the charity department had it
that the city is liable for the board and
lodging of Joseph Broggini, who so
journed in the county jail a year ago.
The report was accepted, and the bill was
ordered paid. Sheriff F. H. Tracy served
notice on the council that the city is
held to account for the keep of Joseph
Mastroanni, now an inmate of the jail,
and the notice was referred to the city
attorney.
Wirins permits were issued as fol
lows: M. & B. Lighting A Power Co., to
install eight meters; Dr. D. C. Jarvis, to
install electrical machine; Barclay Bros.,
to install two motors. A complaint
made by the inspector alleging that
Jones A Xye installed a motor without
a permit was referred back to the in
spector. Building permits were received
by the following applicants: F. G. How
land, sleeping porch; Mrs. William Jack,
repairs at 20 Keith avenue; Thomas Car
roll, to re-cover roof on Xorth Main
street; Johnson A Gutafson, to build
garage on Boynton street; Joseph Gapit,
to erect addition to house at 2S Circle
street; Harrison Granite Co., to build a
covering near Center street.
On the favorable report of the fire
committee, it was voted to install a hy
drant on Brook street near the Hope
cemetery entrance.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Street depart-!
ment payroll, $.i31.TS. str t. sewer, sur- j
face sewer, resurfacing, sidewalk and
health accounts: water denartment oav-I
roll, StfO.37; fire department payroll. orn completely off the axle with nearly
v0.4fl: police department payroll, $100.- every spoke knocked out. while the axle
SO- C. X Kcmis Eli services as iani- was bent, the left front fender torn off
Each Driver Was Inclined to Blame the
Other for Crowding on the Wide
Barre-Montpelier Road No
One Was Injured.
Two small-sized Ford cars of the run
about type failed to negotiate a passing
on the wide Barre-Montpelicr highway
near Dodge's late yesterday afternoon
and after they had locked wheels in a
cloee embrace, the car of the American
Tobacco Co., driven bv L. D. Sullivan.
buried its nose in the bank amid a cloud
of dust without injury either to Mr. Sul
livan or H. P. OHiver, his passenger,
while T. M. Gallagher's cur from Hard
wick, with Roy E. Cheney in the driver's
seat, was left a derelict straight across
the road. Xor was Mr. Cheney hurt.
Then there ensued a long wrangle as to
the party responsible for the accident,
negotiations being suspended for a time
pending the arrival Of liability insurance
men.
The tobacco company's car was pro
ceeding toward Barre, and, according to
an unbiased witness, was making leisure
ly progress as the Gallagher vehicle hove
in view on the straight highway. Chen-
ley avers that he was not going over IS
J miles an hour, as he was proceeding from
a busigicss visit in Barre to his home sta
tion in the granite town of Caledonia
county. By general consent, neither car
was breaking the speed law; ami it then
resolved into a question which driver
crowded the other. And that caused the
argument for the entertainment of a
considerable number of motorists who
happened along just then. In fact, the
highway was blocked so that other ve
hicles could not pass, the Gallagher cat
being finally moved back so there was
passing room.
The latter vehicle was more dimaged
than the other, although bith were put
out of commission for the timoheine be
cause of bent axles and smashed front
wheels. It bad the left forward wheel
tor; C. Colombo band, $100. concerts:
Episcopal church $30 40, H. G. Woodruff
by the married and single men, the for
mer winning by a score of 10 to 6. Aft
er the Iwill game a series of races were
pulled off, the peanut and" potato races
furnishing a good share of the amuse-
Middlebury, Aug. 23. Xews was re- ment. The former was won by Mrs. W.
reived here yesterdiy that Dr. Stacy i D. Walker and the latter by Miss Ethel
W. Boyle had committed suicide bv I Coolcv. Mrs. Muzzy won the 50-yard
shooting himself through the head a fewldaeh for women and Jason Bailey took
hours after his arrival Mondar at Colon. I first place in the same event f. r men. A
lasted six innings, was warmly contested : $41.40. tax rebates; W. C. Webster, $2.42
services
count.
as witness, surface sewer ac-
FUNERAL OF T. L. EMERSON.
Barre.
and the tire on the right wheel flattened
out. The end of the axle cut a mark in
the roadway as the vehicle swung around
with driver Cheney. He was not un
seated. The tobacco company's conveyance
with a larze box attachment in the rear
had its left front, wheel tnrn Kick and'
Was Held at Daughter's Home in South I ,t Iptt ,a ,,
with the forward end asrainsf tre tank.
Tk. fi.nnrsl of Thomss 1 Fmrr.nn . Wnere IT Ma open shtik HMHinil P me
long time resident of Barre. whose death ifor' "f 'he collision. Both Mr. Sullivan
boy precluded the notion of death that j Panama, on his way from Xe'w York to'irace for the girls was won by Miss Lora- occurred at the home of his daughter, j !,nl Mr- "!li,'"' 1,3,1 managed to stay in
little fellow happened to fall i not quite Innnr
. .t a i i - , . 1
iirNi, inn uc uja.. mi.'" 11 iib j'niii nnTn i
ried Simpson to a hospital at St. Johns
bury on the midnight train. Xo cause
for the young man's act could be ascer
tained. Two children beard the shot and ran
out into the road whre they fund
Simpson, almost in frnt of his
with a revolver nearby.
the neighbors entertained. Just how tlie p(rn for e Orro de Pasco Mining com- belle Walker. Mrs. R. D. Bapp in South Barre Saturday ,h'" and were not tnmred. Later
A basket lunch was indulged in at evening, was hchl at the house Tuesday 1 " " -7 ' . i""'
Dr. Boyle was only 2! years of age noon time, everyone bringing their own afternoon at o'clock. Rev. B. r.. Lip- ""'' ,n'v o"mr rrm cars.
and was a son of Dr. t harlcs C. ft -v le. j choice basketful' of gooi things to eatjek,-. pastor of the Hedding Methodi-t
1 n hearers weie: 1 The Miss Mvrtie ani IWnrf D.sfm
Charles Emerson. ' of Hartford, Conn.. rsrd through t!i
Middlebury last fall to establish a prae-, The committee in charge of the func-,sons of the deceased. R. D. ftspp. a son-jnty this noon to BrookfnlJ. where they
tice. jtion consisted ot U. U i neever ot the m law. and Merton r.merwn. a rrn Json. :1I i!t at the home of tieir sister.
after landing on the cement. Dr. Wood
-.'ruff applied some balmy stuff on the-i, homeopathic physician of 40 East 41-t and before the crowd became scattered . chiirch. officiating. 1
-ibumped pate of the boy and gave it as I street, Xew York City. He came to a group plvtograph was taken. j Norms n Emersm and
nis opinion init tne worst was passes.
The baby is under twenty months of
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. ftilodeau and son.
Joseph, returned to their home in Charv.
home, 'X. Y-. to-day, after tisiting friends va
Brooklyn street for t week.
Dr. Bovle left Middleburv on the nicM Capital City grange of Montiwlier. Rus- Interment was made in Eimwoi-d ceme- i Mr. AHand Sto.!drd. f r a few fki
j Mrs. A. it. Bagley and Cautnter. Mr.
1 1. eon Wtdis. returncl to thir ho.Tes -n
J.-ft ! I .tGf t. n. X. H. to-daj. aft-r is.'.i:r
.il ' fnTid and rtlativc in Last I'-arre arl
Gran.ttxiiie for two wc.ks.
train July 30 and announ-e l to his sell tollms of the fcast .Montpelier tery.
friends that he intended to go to Xew srnrife. Mrs. E. A. Withara of the N-uth '
York and from there to sail for Ftani-e , Barre grange. B. W. Btt of the Cobble j John Rogers of Pro.r,e-t Mre.t
to join the nied!l corj- of the Ircaik ' i'ill grange and Mr. Maxim if the Midi- 'this noon for Sprmfeld. where he
aj-njjr. jTsre at St.ady K.U. b ricj loved as a j'intr.
