VOLUME XXXII.- LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23,1916.5
COUNTY CAMPAIGN[RS t
HEAR HRE MONDAY
C
Attentive Audience Heard
Them Expound Views
C
F. P. McGOWAN
WIELDED GAVEL
Candidates for All Offices fron State 1
Senate Down to That of Least 1m.- I
portanice, Heard Throughout by Fair
ly Large Crowd. No Disorder. t
.,A quiet and attentive audience
heard the candidates for bounty offices
expound their views in the county
court house Monday morning from i
10:30 a. m., until 4 p. in., excepting I
an intermission for dinner. Although
the candidates were holding the boards I
for over four hours, they were heard 1
to the last by a fairly large audience.
F. P. McGowan, Esq., presided over
the meeting in the absence of It. I0.
Babb, Esq., president of the local
club, who was detained by other at'
fairs.
The candidates for Treasurer, Audi
tor, Coroner, County Commissioner
and Clerk of Court and Sheriff made
practically the same addresses that
they made at the Langston meeting,
previously reported in this paper.
Senate.
Col. J. 11. Wharton introduced his
remarks by saying that he would not
criticise his opponents or Itheir ree
ords, as he conceded that they had al
ways voted honestly. lie expressed
his approval of biennial sessions of
the legislature, suggesting that. there
would be a saving of $85,001) which
could, be applied to building good
roads. 1-le advocated more support for
'he rural schools. The blackest blot
on South Carolina, he said, is the high
degree of illiteracy. Ite paid an elo
quen.t tribute to the Confederate sol
diers and advocated more adequate
'pensions for them. lie said he favored
a loan fund being provided by the
stato from which worthy boys and
girls could borrow money on which to
sacure an education.
Geo. A. llrowning, JIr., said he w as
not the candidate of any clique or fac
tion. lie endorsed the state ware
house system, advocated a 6 per cent.
rate of interest, flat 2c railroad rate,
rural creditsi as a national mel aurc',
more pensions for old soldiers, and
mnor'e support for the comhlmol schools
though he den ied any feeling toward
the state colleges. lie said the state
colleges ought to be taught to expect
less in the future. Mir. iro'vning
spoke in favor of building a new jail.
le saild he would not vote a bond is
sue on the county for any purpose
without, allowing the people to first
pass on it. Alvoaitig the pulblication
of the supervisor's reports, he sai
the people of the county had as mu ch
right to knov. about the county inante
es as thle townis pecole d'ei
thirs orS Ot'hle sto0'khiolders. it
corpiorations do thir ms. .\r. lIrownt
ing sal he~ was opplosedl to thii
cat ion of uslss oillc('s and1 ra is ini
of satlaries duin tg onle's tenureIl~i in (if
flee. ini tis connll 'I lon hei crtiJticizec
the sta te tax coinmtissin, the boarde o
charities and corrte('tions. the $.30,00J
pr'oihbitiloll lawv en for'cemett fitnd am
also voiced Ils oppiosit ion to the b~an
ey-Odom insura'ince aet.
Pen. 0. P. Good win saidlihe had car
r'ied ou t his pledge to give a cearn 114
ministration and reduce taxes. i
Baid he had not voted for any hill tha
wouild itncreaso the state tax levy on
Iota and~ thait lie hitd hld~ tile count:
tax levy dowvn. Hie secured thel pas
sage of the bill requiring thle rura'il iu
lice to collect delinquent. taxes at nl
ecost to thle county, lie said lhe intri'
duced the bil11 prov'idig thntI the farn
er' should receive hal r hi' money bac
where fer'tilizet' fell below the advei
tised antalysis. lIe sail hie favored
more econiomlial adm1ii strtationt, CI
liOsed the state tax commnission ani
board of chartitles andl correction:
He adlvoentedl mor0e tiensionls for' o
solers, saying thItat lie hiad int r'
duceod a bill providing ior a $.i0,0(
Increase. lie said Ito fa .oted ritrr
oredits, 6 per cent. iIteest law, tio
road-working law, and 2e r'allroti
fares, ie sald he favored bettei' ri
rad schools and opp)Ose'l approp-intii
-so much money for collc;'.es at II
exptense of the rui'ah nehools. lie sa
thue county oug~ht to biuild anoth<
inMil. hut 1ha d opposed it on ncou:
t the financial stringency caused by
ie war. He said Mr. Ilfrowning voted
gainst it when he was in the legis
dture and 'Col. Wharton had never
ought to correct the conditions
poken of, charged Col. Wharton with
xtravagance as a senator, saying that
o had voted to build a new governor's
iansion, to provide. a new associate
ustice and had failed to answer roll
all on the votes to table Gov. Blease's
etoes of certain appropriation bills.
House of Ilepreseitatives.
S. W. Pucket said he would promise
obody to vote for lowering taxes at
he expense of the state. He said that
he taxes need to be spent more ju
liciously. lie quoted figures that went
o show. that the tax rate in South
arolina was the lowest in the Union,
Lnd not nearly as high as the rate In
if les where the best road and school
'acilities are provided. lie said the
ndirect tax on roads, through the
allure to build good ones, amounts to
nore than the direct tax being paid
low.'' llasty legislation is costly'
(aid Mr. Puckett, and referred to the
Laney-Odom bill as an instance of it
lie favors rural credits, a beiter un
lerstanuding between Ilabor and capi
tal, and no exemptions from jury
lllty.
W. It. Richey, .ir., said he was th
andidate of no clique or faction. An
report to the contrary, he said, Is ab
solutely false. lie said the main issul
before the people is taxation and tha
the county is paying now $15,000 mor'
than it (lid for state purposes before
factionalism. lie said if the othe
counties of the state paid their pro
portionate share the total wouli
amount to over $700,000. dir. liche;
scored the creation of the tax con
mission, the board of charities an
correction, the $50.000 fund for th
enforcement of the prohlbitlonl lav
the $2,000 fund appropriated for extr
legal advide for the governor, an
general extravagance on the part c
the legislature. lie said all were i
favor of law and order. lie advoca
ed economy, good roads and bet t<
schools.
.leremiah Stone said that lie was I
favor of good roads, good schools, lov
Bring the rate of interest, revision <
labor laws so as to make it a misd<
meanor for an employer to hire a tel
ant under contract. and similar men
'ures along that line. Ile said he w
(oubtfitl as to the advisability of 1
(rnial sessions, but thought the pre
1nt sessions might be shortened to a
vantage.
\lr. It. 1). lloyd was the first. speak
after the recess for dinner. lie said I
had worked and voted conscientious
In lie ILegIilatutre and his record w
o1en for inspection. lIe d efended
vigor'ous termus the tax (onisicl
saying it was litended to eqlual
taxes, the board of charities; and cc
reetion, which was passed in the i
teres:t of the poor, the ailliited, I
mialtnied and the down-trodden. I
said he thanked God he had it In I
heart to care for these classes
people. lHe justifled the pa'sage
lie $50,000 proh(iiblitlin law en for'
ment1 011 appopia'ition, sayinug it V
fool ishness to Pass a pr'o1hbit Ion 1:
and t hen not. piItIvide for' Its enfori
ment11. lIe told oIf several bills be
- nstrumenoltal in kllling which we
I aga ist thle Intere'st (of the farmerci.
I ). 11. Iloozer dlevote h( iis tim1e to
) labor laws, sayIng thlat lie was iln fa
I of their revislonl, as thle farmerv
- now~~ at tile merecy of thle negro labI
er'.
- IL. S. 11o01t said t hat the otheir can
- dates wer'e cIrculating a stor'y on I
I to the effect that lhe wvas the ugli
111man in the race, except one0.
o dlhin't say who the othier mani wvas.
ydeclared that lie is a const1ruc(tioi
- r'ather than a destructionist and wo
do(1 nothing to injure the state.
0 prom15is to kill all the "fool" b
hbrolliht up.
W .. D., lloyd promisedOC faithful
k formiance oIf dluty if elected, lie
-he' dId not favor bond1( issues
a i'oads, but. thought that a smaIlI
>- (d111ona0 tax levy was advisable.
dI spoke in the Interest of better seht
(. and miore0 app11roitions for themi
d sallid lie 00ontract law must5 lie r'e
- died( in Wash ingltn, but he would(1w
10 to give r'ellef in some1( way. lie
ii the white man is to blame for' pre
w labor conldItlonit.
dI S. i. Gloggans explaIned the 111er'
- In the county tax levy by reason oh
ide:bt bour.' t over fromu urevl 1us lii
ic h,tratlons. lHe qaid Ithe addit io' il
bl had to be hevic' Or tihe c:ounitV" -I
ar not paid. ITe saoid he' had voted to
st many useless bills. ie ndvocated
J, W, WA'PrI PREACIIED SUNDAY.
Gave Very Forceful Sermon and Held
Attention Well.
As it is known, the First Baptist
church has been pastorless for most
of the summer and the pulpit has been
filled from time to time by different
preachers. This past Sunday J. W.
Watts, son of Mr. and Mrs. J. D. V.
Watts, preached to a large and appre
ciative number from all the congrega
tions. This was his first sermon in the
city and gave forth a very favorable
impression. The subject was appro
priate, the development was cxcellent,
his style pleasing and his choice of
words was very good indeed. Mr.
Watts was a member of the graduating
class of Furman University in 1915
and he intends to enter the Baptist
Seminary this coming session, and
there is now many indications that he
will become one of the foremost of the
laptist Ministry.
it was announced on Sunday morn
lng that on next Sunday mornig and
evening the services will be conduct
ed by the lev. G. L. Knight who has
recently come to this city to reside.
And on the first. Sunday in September,
the lev. Samuel 1. Temnpleton, from
itichmonid, Va., will preach his first
regular sermon here, as he has ac
cepted this call. _- t
Suffers Second l,oss by Fire.
.\Ir. S. IB. Foucne, car inspector In
1the railroad yards, suffered the second
loss by fire within a few short years
when the dwelling he w as occtpying
1 was completely destroyed last W(dnes
- (lay evening. The origin of the fire
I is unknown, but it gained such rapid
Y headway after its discovery that the
- house was consumed by the flaies
d in spite of valiant work of the
e lireien. A few articles of furniture
Were saved, but. most of the fu rnit ore
it and household effects were also a com
(1 t)lete loss. The adjoining house, oc
f cupied by Mr. F. .1. ltickman, was
n barely saved from the ilamies by hard
t- work of tile fIreietn.
r The house was ownted by Nlis .la net
.\laefarlane and carried, so it is un
I (erstood, about $1,500 insut i aace. \.
houche had about $500 insurance. ir
f has ioved his fantly info one of th
D (ial otses in the northe(a'it setion
- of the city.
- 'hlorwe w ho w itnes;e(d the fire re
t t turned to the city piraisiig very high
1- 1' the wvork of the firemnen in savint"
- ad.11iing pr'operty". The house aW'.
- lucated so far Irol the wai(tr tii)
that it was not possiihle to throw .
'r largo stream on it, but the 111 m11ad
1c good use of' the chemuical apparatu;
ly andi the sinea.1 hos . The :I4rsonai
as: work of ('hieI' t' rwS was eicpcialf:
In -onnu~iented u1pon.
, o Io r ofl III(ers every f(Irt t Ye2IS, ravor
it'- ed rural credits, good roads, goo
n- schools, pensions for old solhiers atn
he a hletter conutract law.
le Wilson W. liaris said hle is. offeil
us for re-election on his record and hi
of litniess for public service. Hle spok
of of taxation and said that instea (1
- the last le'gislauturt'e Ieitng one of th
as tiost. extravaiganit, it was one' of ti
w tmost e'COnIomicail, as5 evidenicedi by 10
si- howetintg of the t ax 1Ivy fromt 7 tail
as to (1 I -3 mills. As a mtetmbetr ,of ii1
-re Ways)3 and~ .\eatns 'ominttit ee, he sai
lie had1( beeniI151114 isr mntatI nt r'eduicit
hle thle state appitropirht lin by $Oi; ,0u
hOt ie Sah il he had used htis best e ffor'
a s towar ith le ad vanwemient of0 agrict,
(It- lture anid eden21t ini, had11 voltd againi
tho L aney- Odomt insurante bill ai
dI - defended thle tapprtoprtiat ion for' t I
thm hoard of ChIaritiles aund (Cotrectilot
est saying tat if it n ever tur'nedl a ce:
lie Into the state trteasur'y its existence
Hie justitled biy the wotrk it is doing fi
ist the unfortunate people (If the state.
aldJ.l 1. 1 ust i scoredi thle Tax Comm:
Uie slon, the $501,000 futnd for enifor'cemie
ills of the prohibition law, $3,000 increa
In asylum suplerintend~ent's salary,t
br- holding oIf two ollices by thte sai
aid1( persotn tand tadvocnted blet ter schboO
for bet tetr roadhs, rural c reditfs, bietnn
ad- sessions, penisionis fot o' d solie
lIe lower rate of1 Interest, 2e r'ai!rou
ols fares and a neCw jid. 114e (oppots
lie reckless aipprioprIiationis for (letts
ne- college and1( free schloltarshipijs.
otrk Mr'. WV. M. Nash gave a talk onl <
aid opterat ion amtong fatmers ti ('onti
ent vative legislation in their lntere:t.
favors economy, better schools, beti
aae roads, etc. lie promised a faith
the dlischartg( If hiis duttties,
itnt, Mr. Na.+ 'as the last speaker.
Thcn~ Idates spiolke at Imr
miii Mondayv night and at. TEkom v
kiii mrday, a hth pllaces ,e
he"- eonetI',an andt rnannctenl hi'.rI a
FROM THE COUNTY t
News Letters From Many
Sections.
CORRESPONDENTS
GIVE LOCAL NEWS
Happenings of Interest to Mlany People
All Offer the County and to Those
Who have 'left the Family Hearth.
Stone and (one to Other States.
Mountville, Aug. 2 I .-Misses Rosa
Gray and Dorris Young, of Laurens,
are visiting Miss Sara. Dunlap.
Alr. and Mrs. N. G. Nelson, of
Charleston, are spending their vaca
tion here with their brother, .\Mr. .I. C.
Nelson.
Mr. .lohnl 1). Yarbrough, of Clinton,
is visiting Nilr. Walter Lynch this week.
.\l-. and Mrs. .1. II. .Motes went to
ILauren: last Friday on business.
Mlr. Luther .Johnson, of len). is vis
iting .\Mr. rliuce Worknan for a few
days.
.\lr. I'. 11. l4eller's. of ('oluuhia.
here on a visit to friends and rela
tIves.
.\t's. G. II. Logan. of S irtanburtg. is
visiting her sk iser,.\trs. W. 1' li1 this
weekl.
.\rs. .1. .\. Brown and chibiren, of
.lolnston, recenItly laid .r. atid .rs.
it. ''. I)unlalp a few days visit.
Miss IEvelyn Fraser, of Iiartsville,
split last. week here on business.
. \iss Kittle I'ee Wharton, of Cross
Iill, recently spien1t several days with
Miss .anie loyd Iludgens.
Miss nuina Ilipp, of Clinton, is here
as the guest of .\lr. and Mrs. W. C.
IlIipp.
Mr. T. F. Ilardigree, of Winder, (ha.,
is here on a visit to M\r. I.. (. Watts.
Mr. Richard Duinlap is expected
homne within a few days from Cleinson
whero he has been taking a cot ton
grading course.
Mi. and Mirs. T. \I. Shaw and chil
(ren, of the Laurens vicinity, were
visitors at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
W. C. Mlitchell last utnday.
Miss aona Workman, of Cross 11111,
spent several days recently with her
sister, \irs M. F. \W'orknian.
Attorney A. F. \litlchll will leave
I'hiii'sday for l'eirt'ose, N. :'., WIpre ht
expects to Spend some time.
.Miss Olive 'u1ll.'(' left yeste'rdbhy for
Abbevile amd ti'ts in GCtorgia, where
she will visit hi'r sisters, M.\esda mes
George Flynn and Arthur Crisp.
\liss ituth Guess, of Ihtuniiark, is in
the town for a whits' as the guest of
\liss )(11th Stokes.
It is reported that at'ere art so iany
ltt ty girls here that the boys have to
('ill before breakfast in order to set
them all.
ViYt . COIT N\I: WS.
f Mr. .\lason Col' and sister, .\lis
C 1)olli0 .\ae, have' returnei d fr'oim j'or
e MIott., whe re they wentI to i sit thle i
e brother ''.\lr. luifuis ('ole.
Is .lr. 1I. N. ll'eder' has gone to New
e hieriry to se'e hIs briotheri-in-lawv, \lr
u. ad Myrtle ~mit hi, spent thle day witi
Is .\l's. Wallane I av'is. Miunday.
I- Mr;. .Iimi Wells and daugh~lter, .\lis
st Th'lelinia, ate visitinig at .\lr'. Ouinetg
allSit's.
te Mi'. anid Mr's. W. A. Watts and ('1ib41re'
8,spenit the day with Mi'. TL. 10. ltr'cde
nt Sunday..
In Mhiss Luclle Wnt11Is and lie blrothlel
rir Boyd, wIll stay ovet' a while v'isitIn
MIss hlth Goddard.
s- The young peopile of this sectIon ar
n t lookinog forwarid to thle ice c reami suI
se perV and( tacky par'ty at MlIss Rut
lhe (Goddar's Itorw nPW iight.
eLIttie I.*awr'ence' Owens, who hn
Is, hbeent quIte ri''k with typihold fever,
cal getTtig beIt tir, we' ate gla'd to say,
r's,' .\lis Mary Blank and little siste
ad LIz',ie, ate spenzuding a whil' at Mr'. I
1d . hleder's.
n .liss lidie Fait.hi spient lh' day wit
- N-Mr and i .\i l ts. .1. I'ier('e 'os Is ni
-r- 5peningi; a v hile ~~ wih thir partint
ru der thliIs pr'ettIy wt~eate.
Messrs'. Johtn A rmsltrong anid 11(
, Wallace spent several day13s or la
-na week In Atlonfa,. Ga.
as- Mr. i n.' Mrts. Arthuir (Currs . f 'Dial
wereO the' week-end~ gue-tsq of 31J
IHnlit anda tamity.
A large number of our people at
mnded the Friendship picnic.
Mr. .lames W. Chesteon is very sick
t this writing.
LANFOR1) NEWS.
Miss Genette Martin is the guest of
liss R)obin Patterson this week.
Mrs. Louis Anderson and children,
irs. McS'wain and Mrs. Dr. Vincent
lid children, spent the week-end at
V. i. )rulmmonds.
.iss Mollie Moore is visiting in Mc
'ormick, the guest of Mrs. E'a'l
'htomas.
Misses Sarah and Louise Wolff have
'tunlied froni a visit to Shiloh.
Mrs. Carrie Citnninghat is the guest
f her dauighter, Mrs. W. I). Patterson.
Ml'. Ed Cuinningham and family are
isiting at W. 1). Pattersons.
Mr. Iloh and Geo. Cu nninghan, Mrs.
h0(io win and Mr. Fair Goodwin, were
nests at W. I). Pattersot's Sunday.
Rev. i. A. Fuller rpreacihed he're
slnday alteriloolt, baptisitg ten canti
lates.
.\ir. 1-.u1 n 1, 14, ''ox left .Ilondlay fo(r
;eorgia. where he wils engage in thle
who(ol work for another. season.
ll r. .lit rntlie P attiersoin has a e'eti ln
J(''r Vine fronm which he has g;atlivredi
I' 'uenitIl heIs, the Vi'e m4easurin 1
''("t (ar'll v.,ay froth the root0 O1 ih,
rini'.
.\r. ). is. Iainford was in i lm reti
.\londay (In buisintess.
.\r. Charlton l'atterson has retuIrn
('d fromn the west where he has bee(t
f"or the past several mnonths.
\r. \. 11. Drutum51 4' 1ondii left 1.
Wednelday for .liiis lloplkins hospil
al f'or' trealulent. lie has been in ha(
health for soie lttime.
.\r. W. I). P'atterson is suft'eritM
With a s14' throat which is Very pain
fill.
Excursion to Augusth.
TIhe' (. & W. '.railroad has al
nounce(I the last exetursion of tih
season to Augusta from Sppi'ta nhur1
and interiediate points to he run (1
\edncsday, August. : 1l. The speci;
train will pass L aurens at. 7:38 a. ni
and the return t11ip fare will be $1..
Isit'd Iome Folks.
.Mr. 1(0} I'owers, f(I Monroe, Ga., a<
c'ompatnie(d by his father-int-law, .\l
.11m TIhomp'son, and his Sister-in-la\
.\iss .\nnie Kate Thompson, Visitt
his Iaretr5s, .\Mr. and .rs. .1. II. l'o4\
ers, nea;r .\ladden1 Saturday. .\iss Di
P'owers, whlo ha!. boon \ isiting; thet
41me h itlille with) 111 11 afite' a Vt
pleasant. visit.
T'll I'r ch Sundy.
ie v es 0 . Knighi, who h1a"i Ir
centlyintoved t) the ily fitrll Granit
\ ill(., will s'e4'r I he 1 I1mlpit at I
lirst Iloutiist ()hu rch :slnday 1orm
ing andl eve ning. Rie . Knight and I
fatily have' a w\ id(.' co nnectio ) n i !
city in1(1 ('4uy11 andl the annou0s1M
met that he will preach SutnIy i
he of 2u sual inter4; st i n t litrg nui
her II thos who know hin.
P'ension Notiee.
*eal y T w i'y l re r ddtat iter(olil1'14
la '~itire thtahllm.t a
*ou t.llous on S~ilth 1t l onday (411
Ii o ta iztion o the111y lles inl ii
allnda. wsiig All111g4begi .lan.'
1917,l tor he lesuelt ig y ei
lt~los I ' e~g . k'.d sahiwell, I
The( mani frendioiMr.lMrg
'foulitvan1 wil' be grievie tot tkowt
aco4I s lohe iveyllAd hert cintr'ho
Alln llay Sigin at L~andford.~l
al da sigi Allti sigers re.
IDICATIONS POINT JO
IND[[INIT[ STAY
Interesting Letter as to
South Carolina Troops
WRIGHT COMMANDS
THE CAROLINIANS
'nele Sam Looking 'arefuilly .lter
the IIealth of the loys. New (ltow.
hug and New Shoes leing'g 1ro4ti isievL
Iegiments H1a'e 'I'tehr Own soft
IDrink Stands.
In ('amp With the South Car-n' a.
lIeginients in the 'Il Paso Patrol i -
I ri('t Atg. Ii6.----'T'he Second regima' r t.
was informed on Tuesday throu.h a,
t'legrain from Gov. Man ning to :en.
springs that ('apt. William M. Crtier
oft' oltml . hia, had been comntlitIL'i aet
'a latait of the ( ov'et'irnor's i;tu:t,-ta
ota' the Second and would rept n 't
the border w'ithin a few days. 'hi 2
'1nintp any has been (con'nnlandaal ft'
1t ptast several weeks by First I3eet.
Tom Mlarslaill Vh has irot ht 1 to
a state of high etlieietcy. The ;i. -
naioteatllen of the atplSointit'l of
a;t. ('art(r Was aiada' to( the !at l 'rte
of the Second l/y I'el. Springs at ,:,'tait
nwi'etinlg On T u'!'u- day n(ii rning .
The Sonuth aroljina re'ginent .re
'n( a ta ped (over 4 'I m t feet ahove tt;
seat level and several htutdredi 'at
hi2gh1'r thaanai El Paso. The siut. w tet
r ini at a aig the ther inomIete ('r up stan -
titiles, does not seem extra (hat wan r he
('Luse5 ofth lii'ary eliate and] tiha.ek
1f hu' tnidtity. The nights hacorne raeit
icl and thl e S liers have ben slep.
ing under blankets.
Alondiay night a strong wind b't-tw
- throtghout the night and the powrerr
' :atnl whicb covers the catle site siv
oral inches in thilcness was blown
.i (vt\ .r everytinii gl . ''lhe si(es of t.h.)
L tafnts had to he pulled do'..n hut even.
" that did not Stop the sand froi sepor
in tt under and4t blowing ov(er clothest
and1 all matter in the tents. The onio
rei't smingg feature .of all tI-se sant
stornms is that the sanad is not of tho
ticky" kind, tie to tll dryness of
the Iatnosphere. It caut easily im
bt 1'rushedi oilf and the P'e'nnt1sylVanias:
t say that the Soutih t'atr''linians will
s'ortt u'. 1 1' :1 l to tlh 's:a'ld storills ;tflt'
I1,
not tlind it the teast. I'liey sta._)
Ihat was th a' oxpleri1t'c.
Ihe i I !'at '1eRs.
' l' Sit 'iont h L'a linIi ' Ip a'ria
ra. r "\ !I ill ';'mp1 on T'Ue y f
II o l and t y p'r'i ea d a I r'eat ta ' the
iy. The:-e was a gentral r' aa.ltng
.\"("re pass' I atontl f'r inl eno, I( a tal
notiwr. The :,il ,(or Io'h reig:11 -nts
i I tiig hnlledai f'or it- iresent by
ha ;h:in I. . 1'. . ta. of the first. it.
i i is ol.iiin d I e'tn the lFoa't ;i1ss ot'e';
11 1. 1 n ,l rousht inl.)to nop in the inor'ninlg
amt I 1 l'( o(tw . A\ a ig batch of let
th w ("r(t l e iil hta a'ad by thit mLen irot.
!it ;1 ' 11a ' it Tuesdaa and that I -a
aol tor'tmt mathi th0at oflbrgae ti t athe.
hei as ter Soh Crlnt t'ln.oft
h'oLi.ut. C!. P.r.lleht of the et
r m :n rn i t al Sttshipn t i t t' h h'tpad
Ird l am!Is int Anri-r on. 11'a t i lbya r t ett I
et. ofas teseta ho t f apet CThuaey offm'
amltitifSu Ih t ( '~ t eatn.itS tle eo tt
l'The to rattiphnents ofit ia'tr fom. i
re formed tint oneaa briadel toa brhet nown
hat as thoutht~ Cearolit'britgade oftt m
Cl. W.a (if Wrigh ofeal the i Twnt'-y-h~
*'fthird Unitiat taates ifait. rig' a'Ldtie
areajut tthe( taron t he entre o h
an Frs S ft 'l'arlia, at te econ
a irs t a it the neorid rhi.iments ill
arlia TeFlriareien
isth end' of14 the w e ohf th'~eathe
tan ;.t a:ottt t' a .-: wta tiLt '.a ..
t he tuon'wn allhe ia.[tt elrii' iu ia new~
attaHOtinedL I. on T eda n i *hr~ ' f
'oc'k over'ook the FlIghteust (1e w hen~a It
(Uontinued on~ forith it
