' ' '
THE WEATHER FORECAST. ' d t ' f, i l
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; warmer
to-morrow; westerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 66; lowest, s-.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 6.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 26.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1916. Copyripht.nit, b the Run Printing and PublUMng AttocUMon.
ONE CENT
In QmUr New Tork.
Jersey City and Newark,
Ulsclier
two c;nt).
hair tn-nav inn tn.mnrrnui tirarmAn i aai . v .a .tr . a. x
UNIONS REPORT
SECRET STRIKE
BALLOTS TO-DAY
,'ew Tork Organized tabor
Has Most Momentous Sun
day in History.
LEADERS SEE 100,000
MEX "OUT" ALREADY
Loss to Wage Earners ami
Cost to Unions Put at
$1,500,000 a Week.
PUBLIC SERVICE HEAD
IX ARBITRATION PLEA
"City's 5,000,000 People De
mand Settlement," Says
Oscar S. Straus.
With many local unions voting In
crct on tho order of the Labor Con
ffrtneo of Greater New York to bus
xnd work on Wednesday next, yester
day was a momentous day for or
;anlze.l labor In this city.
While the members of tho con
ference confined themselves largely to
prophecies ns to tho extent of the
planned stoppago of work, they were
Mid to bo by no means confident that
Wednesdiy morning will bring about
the vant tleup of business such as they
hope for In their scheme to compel the
traction companies to recognize the
larnwn's union.
Ernt llohm, secretary of tho labor
.... j .1.- .--j
conierenre. ram mat n un u.: iuci.
of the proposed general strike meet ut
: o'clock In the Hotel Continental this
afternoon they will receive rcportn of
the vote, or unions taken on Saturday
nlpht and throughout yesterday.
i Ve
..O.WO men and women will Join In tile
mlkout. but other leaders were re-
..nrtA.l i,.io Kcentlr.il n. t th nuimm.
of the vote and Mr. Uohm himself ad-
isitted he did not expect many unions
set closely allied ltl, transit com-
panifs to voto in ruvor or stopping depots during the morning nnd at
work. i tempted to do missionary work, they an-
Fare l.fis. of Hl.aOO.OOO lVe.U.
I rtf .1 T I A Tft n'.ICTA rfirtisra iml ) 1
trfxendous expense to the 'unions In '
uch an extensive walkout -.r. ion
V.ngj that cave pauso to the more
Minimi. iT,ir it n.Mi.i .1,.
' 'ilons more than $1,500,000 a week If
S'O.ooa nn nn vt. left th. e mil. nnt nf
'jSHthy for the carmen. 1
secretary Uohm claimed
lalmed last night
... . .. i"i
.9.090 more union men
:t ranks of sympathetic strikers In ad-
'Ion to the 40,000 members of the Ion,
r.nw:i and marlno unions 1" 000'
t.ntrs and 2 S00 stationary rtremcn.
Hi toul of sympathetic htllkers ac-
. u,v..ii. i k.,. iciinftft 1,0...
-l 'o simpend work beginning
. ....
h.e&ilnV morning. i
Hat hi making that estimate Mr.1
Itraaa Still Crura Arbitration
i view of the critical situation pend
. 'I In organized labor throughout
.'.y and the disastrous effect upon bu
i.s conditions of auch a walkout Chal
ei.mU.icA, cinie out last night with a
uthcr emphatic statement to tho effect
hat the public, already greatly Incon-,
nlenced and likely to bc more so. was
Ie;inn'llng that both sides submit their
J!.T;renceS to arbitration.
"Ut the whole matter no to arbltra-
ifn." said he. "Thut la the proper thing.
Il'.e public demands atbltratlon. and
.'..bkts. Its demand strong enough that
Me traction companies and the unions
1-1.1 havo to consent. Neither elde liais
in free of wrong, and the public Is
red of the inconvenience that has been
nposed upon It because both sides could .
..0; sgri'O. '
"If they are not willing to urbltiate
:nder th plan In the ugreement of An-
5rt , then some other way for arbltra-
" n bhou'l be found. Thn public has
"e rlslit to demand this. This nuestlnn
onceriiu In a larger measure tho 5,-
"I'l.iHO innocent persons of the greater
m-in organized lauor on inn one ,
ani and the operators on tho other."
llnlli Miles Mill Obdurate.
Rut Mr. fitrauh'a hUKgestlon did r.ot
all 011 e.-Kcr ears laat night. The car
')n refuse to orbltrato without rccog
''l5ii of tho union, und tho traction
Nulr, nru llrm In their dftermltiatlon to
'M'll'ate the carmen's union from the
rir Hum of tlio city. I
Ilans for the use of every unionist who
pa work nn Wednesday will bo evolved
' ti . onferenen to-day. which will ho
Mlend-d by at least seventy labor lead-
k. While many or these men do not
"lime the general htrlkc will sdart with
Ms h-iiic 011 Wednesday, and sonio
O'lrnlt that the Hebrew holidays will nmr
'n.j pcginnlng rather than help It. they
vp''t thut by the end of tho wrek, or
'y next Monday at tho latest, to havo tho
sytrpatlw tie walkout III full swing.
'J.ne of the moves that will bo wot Iced
1 o'H In detail to-day will be tho employ-
- ni contradicted the claims that other ' caargo w w ............ ...... - " r--;- V, ' . .., . " i,n 7.m e ii... i.J T... .-..i . .1 ' ..VY 1 J .7 .1 lerencc irom tne standpoint or the Hadl- admits a reverse near ixiruoaoa. me cran rauscu many nres and demolished
1 ,.rs previously had made as to the that resulted in manning tho stations against he Health Department. e he sai l, followed by sei',al olliei.. card bearing the name Charles Johnson cal minority, says the unity of the party Carpathian fighting It tays : 1 or damaged a large number of residences
I'tirew trades . 1 " had I been nsser ed with clerks and other employees. These want o have a committee of reputable Crouching bchlnd he car he returned was found In his clothing and the In- . assured through tne conference, the, " 'rout of Archduke Charles Francis: and stores In London.
.1 t.ie JOO.OOO member, of that or- men sold milk over the counter as fast PhV'Iclans appointed by the court to ex- the t re with a pIMol. wlcli he was Itlals J, V, had been tattooed on his arm. result of which waa a compromise nl-' The enemy stubbornly continued hla nt- Tho property damage, while wldelv
...i-Itum had voted unanimously to . as customers called for it. but . no w-agons amine he ch Id an. I de ermine whether carryh, cause . of r';l, . h., 1 C iarlH Hropliy. a n.achlnl.t. of 403 lowing binding decisions on the party's tneka east and north of Klrllbaba. F.ast distributed Is conllneU for the o ,'urt
y tiie order of the labor .unfrence, 1 were nt out excep with milk that was , or not . has -Uomelltls. , hern made against 1 Is life ISM stree N was riding his motor- pdey to Ik- put oft until the regular n..- of the town his .n.tss.s. after a Unlit to small suburban dwellings and .-hop.
v Mr. llohm tald last night that the required for hospitals. nnm.lnv'K ' morrow with the cned statement of he firinr ce.s'ed l;t'.t .Irs In lid he he L M,nt.,i mT, TTJ,lTnU; t!oRri! invention, which is to be held ruccess. were ,10,,1, and further at- although one railway station was da n-
y union,, numbering 10.000. who Althougli It wj-sM t comna" . rdoctors'LllsoT V a emVm'i" al d ow H h l' ' wife d Mng 7rom woun.: i d.1 Vst' Knden .e! ,he wor' taok. repulsed. Southwxst of ; Luczhio age.1. some empty cars being deMro,,.
ilofd tho lead of the longshoremen '!" I inflicted by some blunt Instrument, near Slxt. ninth street. The Vcm I u u n ...... 1 Sa,"r?y a H,ro,nB1 """'i'1 " "riie." ? Pf ." ,r?'ltS ,0rn . Xo ,n!!
1 tevrsters Included some of the SJ" J.i ,x" t tl , moniln" i t.lmpo he will look Into tho cane. If Nenr by their children still slept unJIs- the lad n.'lnn ng and llropliy d Speech hr Or. Helfferleh. tack, the seventh In a few days failed. , tary damage has Inrn reporlc.l
" trades. He adm tted that al 1 ouW yvlV it the IMtt this last attempt to obtain redioss falls turbed. Mrs. McDanlel never recovered to help bin" t hU . feet P ll".'"n'c" rr. Karl Helfferlch. Secretary of the h? rfion f U ' . , T1' ar of dropping 1-onib was h.-a,
s Hebrew organization, had not voted 1 t.ie four ....n,.,. , 1 win enm.r u-ith tv inu-v.r .ii.n.it ,n.i-in...n.. ..ni,-ient m mni... ntnte. 1 ll int.ri.it I.. . r.,. . 1. . . ' the advantages the enemy had gained In In many districts where the r.i 1 irs wen.
m or cvirv trade unionist under tlm
ire-tlon of tho general etrlke linlers.
I. ry j.eikon who Joins In tho walkout
" 'I he nnulrnl to riiort to a leader, who
inllateiy will set him to work doing
t il'py or spending ci'jlit hours u
he'plng the utrlke cause.
"I hav, sent out 1.000 letters to-day,"
Canfliiiicif on rnirif Poj.
WARDS RAISE BREAD
TO SIX CENTS A LOAF
Other Companies to Follow
Suit War Trices of In
gredients Blamed.
TI10 Ward Baking Company announces
thla morning that alx cents will be the
standard prlco for the ordinary loaf of
liread after October !. Other large bk
ins firms aro expected to follow this ex
ample, and Joseph llartlgan, Commis
sioner of Weights and Measures, atated
that all the little fellows have been watt
ing only until their more powerful com
petitors mado the move, when they, too,
will advance their prlcoa.
In the same announcement the Ward
company saya It will put out a five cent
loaf, amaltcr and unwrapped, for those
who want It, but advises the purchase of
the ten cent loaf rather than either of the
others.
War prices for (lour, rugar. milk and
shortening are given as the reason for
the Increase.
Drake's cake Cornjiany has Increased
the prlco of pound cake ono cent a
pound. Frank 8. Vreeland said the
change was necessary on nccount of the
soaring quotations for flour.
Tlio National ttrcad Commutes will
confer to-day at the headquarters of tho
Housewives Ix-aguc on the advisability
of urging an embargo1 on the exportation
of wheat.
Federal Inquiry Into Bread Bis-.
Chicago, Sept. 21. Federal Grand
Jury Investigation of the concerted ac
tion of the Master linkers Association
In raising the price of bread la promised
by United States Attorney Clync.
At a secret meeting held by (00 bakers
Saturday night they agreed to raise ths
price of five cent loaves to six cents oe
ginning to-morrow.
MILK MEN STRIKE IN
HARLEM AND BRONX
jgg 0f Borden's Drivers Refuse
to Make Deliveries Until
Pay Is Raised.
Hundreds of people In The Bronx and I
Harlem went without milk yesterday.
Til riguUr morning deliveries from
r,t. ti.,i
--' ,
denscd Milk Company two In The
fironx and two In Harlem were pre-1
vented by a strike of milk wagon drivers. 1
or the ISO men employed at these ,
... ,k . , ,..
according to the company's official,, are '
...Mined n,.t i
" ' ,0a bul tho ten t0 "u !
with their wagons for fear of what .
might happen. 1
Although tho strike leaders made th 1
rounds of the thirteen other Dorden
I purently got no recruits, as tho dlttrtbu-
i.im rt llU fr.ni lhi. RtjitlnnM enn. .
llliuvu n aaui
" "en the iorden customers in ine
Hronx and Harlem awoke and failed to
fln1 thelr uart or pint Iwttle on the i
iluir.bwalter or doorstep tney maue
frantic telephone appeals to find out why
mey nail nrrii iiegici. nu. luii imurc-
wlea walked to the stations at 44S East
lsotn 3,1 Uast 133,1 re'. 's
Kast 116th street and 117th street and
Second avenue to learn why they had (
been overlooked.
The company's officials didn't expect
nnv trouoie, louoning ona-anue nmuu
"a(l "een maue on runny iuni. aim
were Breath' surprised when they were
..f .liall. llllntll.ri
nounm umi uuu.ik:.." .-....
were in a tair way iu hu niumui mun.
Vlce-rresldent ll. .n. iiauocK ioob
that an attempt would be mado to send
.ut mill. wArons it dawn. It wan satu 1
that only ono truckload of milk, con-
' ' - . - ... 1
tlstlng or 124 cases, msteaa 01 me usum
cinviHK ui ". .. .. . . .1 .. I
to-morrow morning by drivers 1
wno wU1 bc drawn from other sections.
hMce ot tho Alexander avenue
Nation promised to detail a man on each
motor truck that the Uorden people said
thc w, .eU(1 tlila morning with milk ,
orhof,rtnUi In Tho Bronx. ,
-t,. iinni.n drivers irot an Increase of 1
$l7Veek on September 1. They now
rtccVe i5( 6 and 117, with a com-
m,on on gal.,. The wages average
,0 nn(J 2i a ,ve.it, iP, Hallock says.
mi, eomo of tne ublest men make as
h(,h aB j23 an(j J30 a week.
Gn j.rday a commttteo waited on I
tne ntanagement and demanded a scale
ot wuges calling for 120 a week for tho
trg. sx months and 121 a week aftor
ati together with a commission of 2V,
pfl. ct.t. on all collections. The demand,
jir Hallock fays, amounts to an aver- I
jlK0 cf $;e per week, or an Increase of 1
or jfj, Furthermore, they Insist on
n closed shop vuic.
$2,000,000 IN FURS SOLD.
Prices at M. I.ouls Auction (thinr
a I.arar Adtance.
St. Louis. Hept. 24 At a fur sale
which closed here last night 1,700,000
pelts were nuctloned for a total of moie
than J2iK0,000, ,1
The largest buyer during tho Bale was
the New York representative of a Mos-
cow-New York llrm. who bought 350,-
noo worth of furs. A I'arla firm bought
KOO.flOO worth and two London nrms
J 1 ." "
Prices were 20 to 25 per cent, higher
than those puld at a recent sale In New
York.
BRITISH CASUALTIES 35,247.
Officer "nd Men Killed In Past
Week Total 8.3H3.
Sperlnl Call rtttpalrt to Tub Sex.
London', Kept. 24. In the post week
tho Urillsh urnilts on all fronts lost
6,2SS"oftlccrs and men killed, of whom
408 were officers, the War Office an
nounces. The wounded and missing totalled
21,961, of whom 1,565 wer oRloers.
"w nnnsiirnmeni or tnree loans, wouiu oc oc- " n-
si- ii..l-r.i . tht ri.nnt for distribution. 01 tneiieaitn uepnrtment was to tickle , rcsponsiw
r- . .n..i, ..,1,1 ..Vii.e in the dav that I "eouy a teet and tap Its knee.
.ui. ij-.iyi.i - - - --, -Th. habv l.-ltlvli.d nnd dr.ur 1.1. fe.t I
BABY RAIDERS TRY
TO RESTORE CHILD
Department of Health Physi
cian Calls to Sco Mrs.
Anton Anderson.
MOTHER SPURNS OFFER
Friend of Jamaica Woman
Plans to Prove Infant Has
Not Poliomyelitis.
A Dtpartment of Health physician
called yesterday at tho home of Mrs. An
ton Anderson. ISO New York avenue,
Jamaica, and asked her If ho would be
"satisfied"' If her nlneteen-months-old
baby boy were returned to her from the
Queensborough Hospital for Contagious
Diseases, where It had been forcibly
taken on Friday by three department
doctors, aided by a dozen policemen, us
a suspected case of Infantile paralysis.
Tho action cams after Mrs. Alfred J.
Cno, chairman of tho Woman Citizens
League, and formerly chairman of the
Queens County Suffrage party, had In
terested herself In the case, and after
widespread publicity had been given the
circumstances surrounding the removal
of' the baby.
Mra. Eno, who has been contemplating
legal action to secure the return of tho
baby to his mother, raid yesterday that
sho had been called on the telephono by
Mrs. Anderson and told that Dr. Ober-
waiter, a physician employed In the
Mother Became Suspicions
h nMTrli no rV.son for
liS SmiJ . h. if., '
?iS. !Sl wt A. .i CSv .J U.C,l,i- I
and so had decided to usk the suffrage
leader for advice. Mrs. Anderson added
that the physician. In tho course of the
t conversation, had asked her If all she i
wanted was tne return oi ner oany, ar.d
also whether she nould bo satisfied with
ha,mi J
led the mother not to
ea Wth the physician to tho hospital
she suspectc.l Mrs. Anderson would '
oo asKed alter ner visit it cvcrtmng
uan not sanitary and comfortable at the
institution.
"I thought the Department of Health i
was '"B. to strengthen Its case by
2Suto" good ' 'iSd vi'l'no
?tnZltI l??lJlrZ:, n.'
uch place, she Is not. In my opinion. I
competent to Judge conditions, but an
admission on her part that everything 1
,.m.,i .itumnnrv :.i ih. ,n,itn! m....i,i
aid tho hcalih authorities. i
object In this matter Is not only
I ',aI nc.,b"b Ur l?"";,rZTj
committee or physlchini th.it the baby
Is not suffering from tho disease, and
thus Drernt the 1 tcnarlment nf Health I
fmni rnntlnulnir tlin finirtit Inn nf flin
- "
Cbararra Letter Waa Destroyed.
Mrs. Eno said Mrs. Anderson had sc.
,,r,i rir-n..i .n.m.ni. r,.n nr. miit.
nmj Lcnahan. who examined tho baby
before it was taken rrnm Its home, to
tho effect that tho baby had not In-
funtlle paralysis.
"Mrs An tie mo
11 told me the third doc-
tor who saw the baby. Dr. Flynn. had
given her a letter stating that the baby
was not suffering from the dKcise." said
.Mrs. i.no. -miH leuer .Mrs. ,ncieron
tajs mio snowrii 10 nr. laniien
chief dlHgnosMclmi of the Depai
aed to Dr. Tannenbium.
iuiiu ui ijiv 'i-i.ii inium
.1 . . I. .1-. . 1
If All!!. .. r..l i in . I.- . ..l.n...J
... ..i. ,uw
i, i
e may, use tne uociors- statements i
cnf,e and we will tako legal action to
f"'"'". ' rniiu. .
-l m iiiJn...... r.l.l av. a a .
" Anderson said tho only test ap-
: , , ' ' ,."", ,, " . ,'v
scrihed ll n-IK.lf nu th. ehl.f rtlmrnnwlll'iii
MZlAX'
"WI ,''f, ,.,,pol,0'nJ .1 1 ., H ,'
UY' ,Sve been Z fsame" Rn0"',
woula lme oeen tlle famc'
POSTAL BANK DEPOSITS SOAR. I
. . . '
..
of Ancnat n.rported.
YABIllOTO., Sept. 14. As evidence
of thn prosperity of tho country the
p08t Oltlce Department Issued a state-
ment to-night announcing that postnl
savings deposits during tho month of
August show a gain of almost 5,nrw),Oqo.
"Another rensoii for tho remarkable
gain," tho statement ndds, "Is tho re.-
moval of hindering restrictions 011 the
amount that may bo accepted from a de-
posltnr, brought nbout by an net nf
Congress, which was approved by I'rcsl.
dent Wilson on May 18 last. Previous
to mat umo no ono roiuu cieposit more
tnan iu in a caienuar montii or nave
11 balance to his credit In excess of
S.100. The new law authorizes tho ac
ceptance of any amount and st any time
until tho balance to the credit ot a de
positor amounts to $1,000.
"The greatest gain for August was
J 814,800, In New York city. Ilrooklyn
wan second with 1342,122."
COL. THURSTON MUCH BETTER.
Able to Take Two Ilonr Motor
llldo With Family.
Lleut.-Col. Nathaniel n. Thurston has
recovered so rapidly from his Illness that
yesterday, accompanied by his wife, son
and daughter, he took a two hour unto,
mobile trip, leaving his apartment nt tho
Hotel Walton nt 2 o'clocn and returning
at 4. Col. Thurston has lost about forty
pounds, a friend snld, and Iihh been In
foimcd of tho publication of his obit
uary. Ono particular friend greeted him
on his return fmm the automobile trip
by saying: "Well, Colonel, I'm glad to
see you up and around."
Col. Thurston paused a few minutes
and answered quickly: "Well, Mr. ,
It feels a lot better to be around than
to be burled, I can assure you." Ho ex
pects to go to Atlantic City In a few
days.
yueena orancn or me ueparimpni oiiTh Wushhum .if ihit eltv a H ,V3S early th's morning tuai inr ..v.r nmmi in nannnng matters iney were d'jui mfuhk i"uisi "'" jas, Bini, .,.-,. ,,,,,., ,
Health, had called In his automobile at , I1"1?! . ",', u,r" 'J nu,.i,t v, tu" searchers, who had been tramping of foreign policy as well nl Internal af-1 nourishment when they finished. In the i'""1 n,l t to-tby lay blackcn.-.l
the Anderson home and offered to take. "e ""na 01 ,no former uismci ai. vMnHy of Dcai, diamond Htream fairs. summer of 19K. llobert W. Dowllng. the masses of steel and aluminum In tho
irs. Anderson to the Queensborough I r" through tho night In a heavy rain, came The most Important subject of consld-1 young pon of Robert I. Dowllng, presl- mt, vi..a f
Hospital to Inspect It. ' Th,lr ,. f ,... on the abandoned togging camp In which eratlon will be the necessary economic dent of tho City Investing Company. " 8 n -Mnco.tl. Uw.x coiliit..
, imori ,n,n mlsatnir couDle had taken refuge, measure which nre einii tn i.n,i m i made the same nwlm as far as Seventy- victims of the untl-nlrcr.nft defence of
DENNISONS, LOST FOUR DAYS,
FOUND EXHAUSTED IN WOODS
After Wandering, for Forty-eight Hours They Took
Refuge in Abandoned Shack Suffered Greatly
From Exposure and Lack of Food.
DfxvtLLE Notch, N. If., Sept. 24.
Joseph A. Dennlson, former Assistant
District Attorney of Suffolk county
(Boston), Massachusetts, and his wife,
who had been lost for nearly four days
In the wilderness of the northern foot
hills Of the Whft. Mminf fttnu tv.rn fr.nml
' early to-day. They had suffered greatly
I from exhaustion and lack of food and
sleep, but It was not thought their hard
ships would causo permanent Injury to
their health.
The Dennlsons were discovered In an
aburdoned logging camp on the shores
of Dead Diamond stream, In the Dart
mouth College grant, a wild flection of
country near the Maine border and ten
miles from the hotel from which they
had set out Wednesday afternoon for a
stroll.
Wandered far Two Days,
In seeking to return they had lost
their bearlnss In the almost trackless
woods, and for two days had wandered
In quest of habitation. Not until Friday
did they find shelter In an old lumber
shack, where they remained, too tired
to walk any longer and not knowing
which way to turn. Mrs. Dennlsou's feet
were so painfully swollen that It was
doubtful whether she could havo con
tinued much further.
Discovery of tho missing lawyer and
his wife was made by Karl Oould and
Scott Copp. employees of the hotel, who
had joined with scores of other persons
In the hunt As a result of their suc
cessful efforts they are entitled to a re
ward of tl.uOC, of which tl.000 waa
offered by Daniel II. Coak;ey of Hostoii,
brother of Mrs. Dennlson, nnd (Z00 by
The Dlnnlsons were too weary to.
night to mako an extended statement of i
,n,r Prlences. They said they left ,
,n"r ho,, !Ue Wednesday afternoon for ,
a ,ro" aIonK n old ,ran- A "I-eclally .
"unuiw visia iuiiu inciii iium inn
in the '
iiuiiii uiung uiic ui (iiv mum trans
i ra n.
willK Ul
In the
M tllcm h(,Ipleiy cnmcshed
so common In the woods and t
..,, ull,i,rrn,h.
Tn. ouere(, ttbout untll Mr. ,)fn.
nlsnti fft.irlnf? hi. u'lfn'u mp.nifh
tail her, made u rough camp In the open. ;
-
PROSECUTOR HELD
AS SLAYER OF WIFE
Mlisnm.! nfflotnl TnT.l nf
.UlMSOUl'I Uincial lOlU Of Jt 111(1-
!..,r ii.. Aip1pr(wl Aflor
" "- "i" i
Threats AffalllSt His Life.
!
. o . n.
,!'i. ..1. .. 'l
rested here to-night on a State warrant
wife, Harriet. Moss McD.inlel, who was
found dying In her bedroom the night of
July 15.
.McDanlct laughed when arrested. and
on his way to nonco iieauuuariers ou-
tnlned permission to buy some cigars,
I .Mrs. .uci'.inici was louna uying ny
her husband, who told at the Coroner's
Inquest of a mystifying nnd sensational
eerles or circumstances which excited
public feeling to a high pitch. McDanlel
irswneu mat on mo nigm oi mo iniiruer
ho received 11 decoy telephone message
iitiiv-ii i"i..i uimii .-u in .nr. iniF-
.,...t.llA .1.. 1 ....... lM.ll....
11...1 . II.. ,a u.i... l...tTin .. fl.i. fln.ll.i.r
iirninpr nr sir i mniimniv rinii ..uii nv . ...
.u., i.n.i i u-
n uur nnu nnm in nn- iiir..m.it.i-,
,s ne niigmeu imm nis ear in iront
ment.
ine prosecmor iook an acme rern.n.ii
t l....a l al.. 1 1 1 A.. U ..
Imerest In the investigation or tne mur-
vv
nf.i.lnat n inm lie hnrl li.en nellve w.ir.
.. ...... ... ....
a fn. lli. ir . .
l 1U IIIV lllll.li
ROCKWELL A 2D IJEUTENANT.
American Aviator Killed Before
Learning of Promotion.
Paris. Kept. 24. The aerial fight In
which Klllln Ilockwell tl Atlanta, Gn
H'nu mnrtnllv wmitir1.fi ve.lerdnv mnrti.
Ing by a German alrmnn took place over
the town of Thann. Ills body fell In
reconquered territory In Alsace near tho
spot where ho shot down his tlr."t nd-
versary live months ago.
A few hours before the engagement
Ifockwell had been promoted to the
1 alik of second lleutonaut, but died with.
out knowing It. He already had received
tne military menai inr snooitng . town a
German two seater In May. tockwell
1...1 -..h. .1,1.... r.... .1. t.,m.. .in
had fought thlrty-four nir battles since
iiiiu .uiMliiv mi 1 1 3 -luiii mi I.IIKU ruiiv
In .rn. hi. Int. nn.inrf nr.
average of more than ono n day. When
he met his death he was returning from
a bombarding expedition In which his
wn.4 ono of the fighting machines that
furnished tho escort.
AST0R OUTSTRIPS TORPEDOES.
Ills Boat Travels Faater Than Mis
siles t'ed by IVavy.
NuwronT, It. I., Sept. 2I.--Vlncent
Astor has demonstrated to naval officers
here that he can keep ahead of n torpedo i,ngi Fred n, conley and hla'son For
In his fast motor boat Mystery. He has ,.idaln Conley, 4 yoars old, all of
clearly shown them the need of tha navy Chaileston, III. ,
in Having u msi pom in unaen imcr lor- j
pedoes when they aro being tired on the.
practico rang on lower Narragansctt
IJay.
on Thursday air. Astor iook his unat
to tho torpedo range and soon found that
he had no difficulty In keeping nhead of
the torpedoes In his boat, which Is
credited with a speed of better than
forty knots. On Friday Mr. Astor loaned
his boat to Lieut. II. 11. Stark, V, 8. N.,
with which to chase torpedoes, and It
was used to good ndvantugo all day on
tho range.
Apucnl In Oil Tank Car Cases.
WASlil.NOTOe', Bopt, 24 The brief of
tlm Government In Iho oil tank car cases
upholding the control of the Interstate
Commerce Commission over the trans
portation facilities of railroads will be
filed In the Supreme Court to-morrow,
Both wore tight summer clothed and
low shoes, but fortunately the night i was
mild for the season and their bed of
evergreen boughs was fairly comfortable.
They slept very little, however, and at
the bfeak of day they took up once giorc
their wanderings.
f rom time to time they relieved tnetr
fnltitncss with blueberries, which are
abundant this year, and after hours of
floundering through swamps, thickets
and briars they came out on an old log
ging road. They followed this until night
once more forced Mr. Dennlson to
fashion a leanto of branches cut with
a pocket knife.
Benumbed and Footsore.
Thursday night there was a real tang
of autumn In Urn air and both suffered
more from the cold. They were stiff and
morning, but doggedly followed the over. J
grown road until they came upon the
deserted shack. .
footsore when they turned out tho next
There were only some bare wooden 1
bunks nnd an old stove, but at least
there was a roof over their heads, and
,r-. .""irrri 'Ml?" wh,!f I
the' stover. "ThT w..w; ir
tired to sent rood or new irau. unui
Oould and Copp found them. Both Mr.
and Mrs. Dennlson broke down and cried
when their rescuers burst In on them.
The young woodsmen had hit the trail
at dawn that day and lth true Instinct
had reasoned out the probablo course of
the wanderers and mado their way
straight for the shack.
In Old I.ogatna; Camp.
After clvlng such heln as was possible
in tho circumstances, one of the young
mon went to a farm at Wer
cation, several miles nway
there telephoned word of th.
rniworuiK i
and from
the Dennlsons' t
saieiy. wnnom wamna i" -. ""- v-
safety, without waiting to i
lailH oi ineir cxpcrivnira,
tails or their experiences.
Although It was ten miles from Dlx-I
vlllo Notch to the hhack where the Den-
i.. lafc-n r..fi.e. It was necer-
-y" "Hond a teart twenty-.lve miles
.""'"r. .C.,...,i,m? r a
back to their hotel.
MOTOR GARS KILL 2,
INJURE AS MANY
Tlissn nf V.iur VIoHimi Tlv
i liret OI JrOUr lCIIlllS JJOJh
Uiiidontiflcd Man Fatally
Hurt on Broadway.
Two persons were killed and two more
. .
In Greater New York
.. ,. ,.i,ii.. ,,,
.... ...w,w. .... "
four victims were boys. -
John Solkoff. 13 years old. of 73 Will-
I lams avenue, i.ast .-sew iorK, was suat-
Ing yesterday near his home when he
"ie mrutn mm nmiu ny u.i niiiu.ii.juin.-
driven by George Horwiti of 623 Cleve-
miiu eiivri.
Another automobile driven by Leo M.
Ilutchlns. an assistant attorney for the
New York It.illw.tya Company, who
lives In 210 West lOith street, ran down
u uniucmiiiru iniin ni ivrmunvny near
U.th street at dus.. The man was
rinvi in iiiw 1..11 111111 111111.11111a b wiiij
...1 1..I 11 I 1 i.
iill.l Bl.l.p nn A t.nnUn n. . n n ... . 1.
lining .ut hut inii.-Hei injcncr iiuapuui.
.--noruy ancr reacning there the man
gnthced and threatened Urophy. p.trol-
man C.nnPbe of the West Slxtv.elirhth
... .. ....
:.!reet pollen station, with his revolver.
Kuiiura ;n nwing tne crown.
i. .. . .
,., wn inr.iiuimc, nowever. uropnv
I ... . . . ..... 1
had lien beaten and kicked almost M
insenriDiiity. The reserves disposed nf
' the. crowd and sent the motorevMl..
home. The D Lorlse boy sustained only
slis-l.f injuries.
Tin third boy to be hurt was John
Dwel, 7 years old. of 31 Steuben street,
Mapleton. Hlchmond borough His
right leg was fractured when he was
knocked down in front of his honi-
''f a" automoblllst. who sped off without
riving h's name. The hoy wan taken to
ir,' Smith Intlrmar;'.
1 11 V ELL ED AT R P PPflCflTWrci
u- v-nuooinua.
. '.
r ,,m""" ,mtie '' y Toll
1 In Three Stales.
,... ,-... ..
' '' , "'"' Z1.' ' ' our rr
sons were killed and two nminhiv t.
? - .an" 'r"b!,!,,r 'a'
,,.ii.. ., 1 . . . ' -.-.v
tl.Il' InJUTCd W'CI1 3 FenilPVlVanla n.-lS.
nger train struck a surrey In which
,hr' were r ding on a grade crossing
l."nr. '""Jf. V1'8 orternoon. Tho dead arc
.niriiii iiinuiey. on. nn Am .vn.ntv
laimer; his wife and two sons. The In
Jurcd nrn two small sons of tho IJInkleys.
Four Others Are Killed.
Tl.iu.li Hautu, Ind., Sept. 21, Two
men. one woman and u child were killed
and another woman Injured to-day when
their automobile was struck by a Van
dalla patsenger train at Liggett cross
ing, tiio oeau nrn Mr. and Mrs. Orla
Motor struck. Three Meet n..th.
Knkii'.i.r. Me., Sept. 24Three per-
sons were killed and two others Injured
ne probably fatally, when nn nutomo.
bile was struck by a freight train on tho
Maine Central Itallroad here late to-day.
Tho dead nre Charles H. llandall and
ins aaugntcr uona or MUo nnd Mrs.
Abram Dougherty of Medfnrd Centre.
Farmers Flajht Fire With Trenrhea.
KtcNTON, Ohio, Sept. 24. A flro Is
raging in thn fiO.OOO aero Srlnto marsh
at McGuffey, twelve mllca west of this
city. Farmers are digging trenches In
an effort to atop It. According to a tel
ephono message from McGuffey to-night,
residents are moving out to escape the
fire, which is burning over a strip nearly
u mile wide.
GERMANY IS FACING
BIG POLITICAL CRISIS
Overthrow of Chancellor von
Bethmann-Hollweg Plan
of Tirpitzltes. (
I
SOCIALISTS URGE PEACE
i
Pan-Teutons Fight for Policy
of Ruthless V Hon.
Warfare.
London, Sept. 84. A great political
crisis Is slowly developing In Oermany,
(,v .
says tne correspondent at Amsterdam
of Iteuter'a Telegram Comptny. The
Pan-Oermans. before tho on.nln nf th.
neicnstnT on
iteichstag on September 23. ore making
every effort, ths correspondent says, to'
overthrow rhnnratinr ti..i
Hoi;-. Th? Btrliner TaocbUtt Is
quoted n saying:
7u on In tho atmosphere of Impe-
rial politics has reached such a high
point that a dlschargo must follow If tho
empire. Is not to suffer lasting damage."
.n"?h.f.n;i,'.ndi.,"i'? SSSi"
-- 'how 0
tor a policy or ruthles suh-
iwuriitQ war. ins nniv niiainr.) in n.v,ii
is the Imperial Chancellor.
Imperial War C'nnnrll.
The coming session Is apt to bo brief
n the belief of political circles If the leg.
""'"'" nave aecmea to create the much
. urged Imperial war council, which Is to be
composed of representatives of nil the
in i " operate side by side
an extended discussion of all foori nrnh
lams, and particularly previous measures
anil tno omission of tho new v created
food dlct.itnmhhv
Thin in nn in,. ,.!., ,i..i
pari or large parties, as well as tho Gov
cnimcnt. to take up Important questions.
upon which tho Imperial Chancellor1!
t,elh w, , c'xe(.utlv( oommUtet
' ,
Ton P lCU' 1
A conference of the Socialists of the
ocrnian l.mplro has adopted by a voto
of !51 to i a resolution declaring the
country mnt le defended until Its en.
mica are prepared to conclude a peace
guaranteeing the political and territor
ial Integrity and the economic develop-'
mcnt of Germany.
i The res" lutlon " laid to . Iv.
strlyndemn. the"machlna SnS
r a i ... . .
and demands f thoo who wish tomalte Rumanian bonwr. R froni.or a muw. irom tno wrtcn.
, the war oneof ronnueft. Thts attitude, hurled themselves at rolnts In the A tw
it Is contended, strengthens the ro. tro-aerman Unos to-day, but could brertk Manr See the .en Al.lnr.
distance of Germany's opponent and hem nowhere. Fierce righting Is still The hunting of the tlrst .nnelin tv.
tends to prolong the conflict. going on at some places. i etcn ,. ,c, of thouJimis ,,r Tondoi?
It declared also that the facial De- I The Kusslane wero near to success in residents, but tho rr pnilnB an . ..
mocracy jilaces the Irstc rests of Its own their attack aimed straight at Lembcng. KCent ot ,h ,ron(1 MfJ.r . J
. neople In the forefront of the war nlme, In Gallcl.i. They penetrated the. Oer- uf doubt until to-dav'H utfii-lil 0 '..
but ilemandn repect for tho vital in-
tcrests of other peoples.
" conference expressed Its rerret
mat tne efforts or the Socialism for peaco
had not met the desired resnonse fmm
countries hostile to Oermany, us not only
enemy statesmen, hut even the official
rnnresentailves of TV.neii RnMiiiin nn.i
of the English Labor party nad declared
mt irwelves hnstlln to ne.iee. innn Ii .
)ty ror prolonging the '..ar was placed by
tun conference on those otmostner jiesee.
nnt It was demanded that the German
Government should continually endeavor
JO terminate tho war and give the people
the peace they have tons desired
Approval of the action of the Socialists
n the llelchstog in votlne for Gennanv's
,vnr credits was enrewiei hv the con.
""I ivi.n. . nr. ,w
f,.r.nce, the radicals refraining from
. -. .".
voting.
The Vonmcrfs. dl.cusslng the con -
t''tlve of the German economic unions,
. saw
'Nobody can
deny that German) suf-
ler the liiltlsli crimes of'
rers heavily und
nd 9.?!. ?? -
,lo In the third war year must sustain1
'no greatest aacrltlces nnd privations.
but thc excentlonallv bad harvest tn.t
year proved that Oermany ca.mot be
vanquished by famine."
I Dr. HeliTerlrh declared that In spite of
'he mobilization of millions of men for
war the Industries of the country main-
tain a high position. Stool production.
he said, totals 10 ner cer.t. of the amount
produced In peace times. Tho coal out-
.put was up to the average, nnd coke
'even exceeded the production In times of
peace.
New great Industries, the Secretary
hi(, bMn fnrnu(1 tlroo tne 0,,thrfili
of tho war. The tran.iit:itlon of eondu
on German railways, ho added, exceeded
I tile figures nf neace times.
1 The maximum nrleo. of oats as a re.
suit of more nlentlfnl harvest h has been
FUI.' or.more pieniiriil nanests has Dcen
I reduced 20 .narl , er lor . rerrl7n to
the Overscan News Agency.
. , - - n
RHEUMATISM CURE BLOWS UP.
T.I.. r ., ...
Motlm Trlea Calcium Carbide In
Bath. Goes to lloapltnl.
Samuel Yacoittlo of 124 Tl.lrty-thlrd
ulreet. Uronlili n. ilei elnn.H rliriiini. Iln,
of tho legs a ear ago.' and slnco then
his nightly rounds as a oily lumnllshter
iiavo been pa!nf.,l. A fMend advlMd "
remedy to be put In the bath. It not
only would cure thc rheumatic pains
but also would make the skin white.
Y.icovltto understood him to tay tho
soverelen nanaeea was ealel.im earl.tdn
He bought a cm of It mil lite i.nt
night filled tn i hath tub, g-it In 1 t'.cn
j "Wiped 11,0 calcium carbide. In
tho
water. There w.n nn explosion nnd n
flash nf flame which broleo tho bath
room window. The family broki !n Iho
door and rescued ..mvitt'i, whoso toco
and chest were blackened so that at first
they thought him an Intruder. He was
removed to Kings County Hospital,
suffering from nurns.
German Officers' Pay Cat.
mni.iN, Sept. 24 (By Wireless to Say
vtlle). Beginning fVtobcr 1, says the
Overseas News Agency, the salary of
all German officers will be reduced. Tho
salary of the Minister of War and the
chief army commanders will be re
duced by 1,000 marks a month, and lieu
tenants by 10 mark-.
GIRL SWIMS AROUND
MANHATTAN ISLAND
Ida Elionsky Covers the 10
Miles in 1 1 Hours and 35
Minute!.
Ida Elionsky set a long distance
swimming mark yesterday that mas said
to be a record for a woman when she
swam around Manhattan Island, cover-
ling forty miles In 11 hours nnd 35 mln
I utes. Tho swim was supposed to be a
I raco between herself and her brother
Henry Elionsky, known as Buster be-
'ause no weighs Z3n pounds ana iooks
It. Hut It was hardly u race because;
Henry was shackled hand and foot, his
favorite mode of nntAtlnn.
Miss Elionsky and her brother raised
the level of tho water almost perceptibly
at the Battery when they Jumped off at
V ifil til IHO IIIUIillUB I1U ojiihpiiv ...
the direction of the Statue of Liberty.
They were shepherded by a rowboat con-
6 Ms in the morning ana spiasnea in
talnlng entirely superfluous uro guaras.
" bchlnd came a B,op mied W,UM
rep0rters and tho Inevitable movie men. 1
Miss Elionsky shifted from the Aus-
trallan crawl at times to the one arm
""""U"
rimarlv submerBed after th
Tf; rLrSS.
?J2?uJllP'J:Xniil
" ,,, "J,u, T whale
, ho!; m,1,? furrowed thlr wav up '
: "J li nwVr' S V current '
' J thjr -J
wi-v iMn swun them from their course
" . . ..
several times and mnde them realize
they were on serious business, rassmg
' through Spuytcn Duyvll Creek they
. .w.. vnMh nil... . Irnn wlirA
' Miss Elionsky trod water to let her ,
I brother catch up and avoid any hard
feelings.
I They went from theic to the Battery. ,
! completing tho last lfg at 6:10. with,
the girl In tne lean ny several yuruu.
ninth Mieet, when hli father om-reu
illlll
RUSSIANS ASSAULT
WHOLE TEUTON LINE
Pim-on Hiittl" fin ill ffiriin-
" i
thians, Where Gains Aro
Made Near Kirlibaba.
I I-onpon, 8e,t. 2I.-Itu.slan arnfies all
' the way fronTth. 1'rlpet marshes to the
man trenched nenr .Manaov, ijeiween tne
Sercth nnd Strypa rlvere, north ot Zbor-
ore cioorow) auer ctiarging ne uin
to tne auacK. iney wrro inruwn uu
aira n. however, lentils 1 00 prisoners ano
seven machine gun, according to the
German official statement. However, tho
Hussinns took I.0O0 Austro-uermann in
this fighting. The Germans then coun-
tor nttiiCKeo. dui wwo urnicu uacn.
j In the Carpathians tho Austrlane re-
g.iinea some crounn nein oy me hub-
slans, In fighting which the German of-
flclal statement describes thus:
"In the Carpathians we rt
trrr.iln which we had loet
reconquered
in former
combats on the eastern nope of fim-
broslava, and wo gained ground between
LUilnva anu imna.i,uiinv;i. .orineani ui
, ... ,.
KirnnaDa tenacious i giuin-j w in rrub-
.. i..i 1.. t
refs.
1 To-da's Austrian statement, however.
REFUSES TO PRAY FOR KING.
'
' Cr,ek Mart, fl.h, In CbnrcU That
Dreaka I'd Service.
i n.n.. n T1 ..r.-ie. in tii
' Greek Church In the Hue Geori.es B.,H
Interrupted this morning by a
Greek student, who Interposed an objec-,
tlon to the congregation praying for tho
King and royal family of Greece. I
At the end of the ceremony the ftu. !
dent rushed Into the nulnlt and began
to harrangue the congregation. Thn led
to fisticuffs! Inside the edifice, which later
1 wcro resumed outside tho church, where
'the congregation listened to speeches
expressing gratitude to Frame and then
dispersed, cheering Franco and Greece.
I CZARINA THANKS AMERICANS
L-A-UWA lUAT!!.- flXa,HiVAD.
... " . .
'' "'hHIP MnlK " a"ln
,
1 rre.en. Motor A ...balance..
- -
rBTgoqnAP, Sept. 24. via London, 6ept.
i.-ifteett motor .tmbnlnnceH of the
j..'. - - --
iii'iu 11ur1n1.11 .i .v - r.i...
1 l i...... ,m .111 n !... 1 1 n1 In.
1 .iim'i iviuie 11 1 1 u i. .. ...v. ......
day by the Kmpress of itussia. The
.,rCPCnt:,on was made by C1.pt. Philip
i Lydlg nnd lr. I'hllfp NeV ton.
' Tl,ft a"'1'1'1"" w,,ro Ilne.1 up In front
. "I T " " " " '""
' I'-nipiM and the Grand Duchesses Ta -
I tln,,a nn'' ai!!X' '"""-'"d In iho simple
costume of hpltal nurses, aj.peared and
Inspected them, expressing their appro
latlon and thanus many timef.
The new cars will be known aa "The
American Ambulance of Her Imperial
Highness Grand Dllches.s Tatlnilll Nlfo.
1 lalcvna." They will be sent to the front
1 to-morrow under command of Dr. New.
CANADA KEEN FOR WAR LOAN,
Subscribe 180,000,000 When
' Only 100,000,000 la eonaht.
Ottawa, Ont., Sept. 21. Canada has
subscribed $180,000,000 for tho ino,non,.
000 war loan.
Small bubscrlbers will he considered
tlrst ami their applications will be
granted In full. Larger subscribers will
bo allotted Ponds in part, Canadian
banks have undertaken to contlnuo fl.
nanclng tho payment of munition manu
facturers for Canadian .sheli orders. The
credit by hanks on this account la 1100.-000,000.
iiiv rcirtiv ibiiiii.'( 1
ONE ZEP GREW
OF 22 BURNED;
OTHER CAPTIVE
Both Giant Airships Liu
Wrecked in an English
Village.
lUHTfttTr C AST A T.T1 F
JHUAIiMl LAftL AIj 111V
30 DEAD: 110 IX.TURED
.
Pipcmilinl nf srpmwl Priff.
1 ul OCLUim vlilll
. , .. . ..
Arrested on DarkRuadhv
J,v"
Villnrrn fnncf i1ilii
UlUUt, MJIlMilUlt.
DOX IS JUBILANT
QVEH NIGHT BATTLK
Aircraft Brought Down
Arc of a Xcw and
Larger Type.
,..,. , .
'-ONfo.s, hept. 24. Of tho twelve Zu-
( pciinjt wnich Invarlod the British Jeloa
Lo,i(lon . ,. .
Tho airships were of a new nnd
, larger typo than heretofore known.
( Ono came down n flaming torch,
did tho Zeppelin I.-S1, destroyed In tlin
l-Tu
I whlc! saved tho llvo of tho crew of
twenty. two men, who to-day ate pris
oners In England.
Tho crew of the first raider died In the
flames of their own ship, which was
consumed much more quickly thin n.i
( the I.-Il. It Is po.flble though that
rome or tne men were tll! living when
I ves'el struck the ground. Tin.
captain', body wn, found some distance
ments were given out.
.Many who saw the shrapnel luirstln-
ime skyrockets about the Invader, whlcii
suiiseuotitiy caught lire, thinl;
tllrro
must have been err,.i .iiwi
Many aeroplanes wi re aloft
tacked the Zeppelins from all
and at-
Mdee.
The raiders took .1 he.iw mil r it.
before their destruction, so pcri-ons be.
uik mum unii 110 wou nciei .
Outsldo of the London district two pet
imin wtro union nun eleven Injured !:i
an Last Midland town.
1110 casualties n the nietrotinlit.m
area. In the southern and southeastern
sections or iximion. nrenrdim. ...
n Off1-
ciai compilation aro a- follows;
Killed Men 17, women S, children 3
ioiui, is.
I ....
injurm .Men 1,1, women 37, children
l i 1 .... . .
17 : total, PS.
The missiles dropped by the hotlIe air-
Invisible. It Is not believed that nioin
than two or Uirci Invading .eppvlnis
I wh,c'11 crossed the east coast succeidc
reaching the environs of London, and ha
" " t o''i ZS
authorities.
Apart from the loss In material, tin
casualties of the past two i.ilds. U la be.
cved' w " " effect on
"? nirle of c Zoppvllu crews In thn
future.
r. Vin. ro....hi.
"Pnrra " inaae lonaianie.
I The commander and twenty member
, of the crew i.f the Zeppelin, which wms
1 forced to land near an Eseev coast town,
1 were arrested by thn village conptahl
1 as they were marching along the road
I In the blackness f the night.
"I am the commander of a German
I airship that has Juct mute down, and
these aro my crew," raid the leader o
the men when nccosted by the ronrtable
1 Then the officer added :
"lMefi!.. allmv mo to en to Ihe tiMrri.
, P'"t office so that t may telephone some
.nfc I.. Tnn.l.i n1ll will Ifl. ,.1U
j;now I am safe."
I n-u .,..-.i,i r.nii..i ii.i. .1.. ..mm
. 111c ii'ii-ii.ii'ii- ni'ni'i n... 1 ut- .....
i nianiier was pt riccny sail , ai mis jimi-
... . .. .
mro special coiiMili'l. s cani.' uj. iin.i 111
prs0ner.s were marched to the nc.iiv
detention camp, where It w fourd s. .
cral of them worn wounded. All the mr
, worn (1ark blue uniforms and life nivlrg
Wa StCOalS, ."None or Uieill n.iro.innr
, The village .-unstable maid I." heard in,
olso of th motors o.crhca.l mid m't
MW a Zeppelin flying seaward 30n f.t
lip. Turn, as ir tne comni.inn.'r oi me,
airship feared trouble nn the water, ho
turned bark Inland and In n few minutes
"the nlrfhlp United like a giant feather"
landing In . farmer's oroh.ird lcs- than
thirty feet from the tanne-Vs cottar.'
Two loud explosions, followed, .ind then
a Hare of a few seconds duration. Tlin
airship commander marched the men to
j ZnuZ " tat
answer the knock, sn tno Germans took
to the road where they encountered tl"
constable,
Kir Defences r.fflrlcnt.
Londoners wero Jubilant to-day. but
there was not the samo exultant enthu-
1 slasni as three weeks ago. Indicating lliui
the destruction of giant sky raiders Is a'.
ready taken as an ordinary Incident 1 1
this unusual world war.
The fact that thc airships were nrotigh.
down well outside uf London, both la;
night and September 3, dhows the ciro
with which the defences have been de-
1
