-^-.?r^-.-5?T=-.. -,.- - . - . . . - ^ vrivmv-.^ r- VF"alr
tonight tomorrow; ^| k ^ lOT "From Pre** to Home
change in temperature; gentle My^M I 4 A -A -A A j A < A A > -a. . . A . A ij (I wll ?????????
moderate ^a I Hr^^k ^^^k m'wV^Vi^^^kr B II ...
Temperature for twenty-four hours fl A V ^ J V T I I \ fl/IVI Within the Hom>
ending 2 p.m.; Highest. at 4 p.m. B | 1/ I J I I '""" MMOUT
yesterday; lowest. a.m. to- ^^k I i I fly J V I) H H
report on page ^ L?
? ' ? I y I . (won J*?? ClresUdes. Month of Aiywt
^ V/ I?l?, Dally Aftnia T<M?i Saaday. SS.T11.
No. 29.452. i * WASHINGTON, D. C.f MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1916-EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
? ~
? - f __ - - ; i " ?
PDENTTAKESUP
POUTICALCAMPAIGN
Speech in Baltimore Today
First of Series Marking
Greater Activity.
EIGHT-HOUR LEGISLATION
TO BE PRINCIPAL THEME
1
Administration's Accomplishments
Benefiting Farmers to Be Discussed
Before Grain Dealers. I
BALTIMORE. Md.. September 25. ?
president Wilson came to Baltimore today
to deliver the second speech of his
campaign for re-election. He arrived
here at'1:30 o'clock this afternoon and
Was driven immediately to the Lyric
^Theater for his address before the national
grain dealers' convention. Cheering
crowds of several thousand people
greeted him at the station.
The President's progress through the
^streets wa^ marked by a continuous
ovation. Four automobiles conveyed
the party. There were no bands be- I
cause of Mr. Wilson's insistence that I
the occasion be kept non-partisan. Frequently,
however, he was forced to I
bow in response to applause. A com- !
mittee representing commercial organizations
and the grain dealers' as- !
sociation met him. As he stepped upon |
tire platform at the theater the audi- j
ence stood and clapped.
By the time the President arrived at
the theater it was filled with nearly
3,000 people. It was draped with the
American and Maryland colors. Secretary
Baker came over from Washington
to confer with Mr. Wilson. Pending
the appearance of the President a
band played patriotic music.
LONG BRANCH, N. J.. September 25.
-?President Wilson left here at 9
o'clock this morning for Baltimore,
where he was to discuss the railroad
eight-hour law and other campaign issues
before the National Grain Dealers'
Association at 2:30 o'clock this afternoon.
He will return tonight.
The trip to Baltimore was made by special
train. The President arose early
and motored from Shadow Lawn to the
' West End, N. J., railroad station, accompanied
by Mrs. Wilson and Secretary
Tumulty. The visit to Baltimore is the
first trip of the President away from
Shadow Lawn for campaign purposes.
To Speak of Eight-Hour Law.
" Although the President had not written
his speech in advance he had prepared it
tentatively in his mind. The speech was
to be the first of a series he will deliver
before non-partisan organizations. It was
expected that the address would indicate
the nature of the President's campaign.
The President expects to amplify his
position on the settlement of the recently
threatened railroad strike, outlined in
his speech at Shadow Lawn Saturday.
He will do this on the theory that the
grain dealers are Interested in the question
as shippers. He was much encouraged
by the receipt of several hundred
telegrams praising Saturday's address.
The rural credits law, the federal reserve
act and other legislation of his
administration of interest to the farmers
also will be referred to by the
President. He is expected to devote his
attention chiefly to the eight-hour law
for railroad employes.
Big Issue of Campaign.
This subject, which the President now i
considers one of the chief issues of the
campaign, will featured by Mr. Wilson
in virtually^very speech he makes.
He will reply to the charge that the
eight-hour law was forced through
Congress by threats of a strike, with
the statement that he insisted on the
law because he believed it right.
All of Mr. Wilson's political lieutenants
here, including Col. E. M. House,
who spent the week end with him, said
that from now on the President will be
much more active politically. He has
made it plain, however, that the only
kind of campaign he will conduct will i
be of a dignified nature.
Mr. Wilson will motor to Princeton,
bis former home, tomorrow to vote in I
. the New Jersey primaries. He is par- i
jtlcularly interested in the contest be-:
tween Senator Martine and Attorney j
General Wescott of New Jersey for the j
senatorial nomination.
Thursday the President will receive
j-pomc Boy Scouts. Saturday he will
epeak to a delegation of young democrats
from New York. j
Train Delayed by Burning Car. !
PHILADELPHIA. September 25.? !
President Wilson, traveling in a special ^
train from Long Branch to Baltimore, I
was held up eight minutes in the north- I
eastern part of Philadelphia today by a |
fire in a carload of straw on the New
fYork division of the Pennsylvania rail
roan. While the burning car was being
shifted to another track the President
chatted with some of the city firemen at
'the blaze and members of the train crew,
who cheered him as his train started off
again.
President Metcalf Denounces
Transportation Faciilities
as Supplied by Railroads
BALTIMORE. September 25.?The
twentieth annual convention of the
Grain Dealers' National Association opened
here this morning with an address of
welcome by Mayor James H. Preston.
President I-ee G. Metcalf of IUiopolis, 111.,
delivered the president's annual address.
Report were made by Secretary-treasurer
I Charles H. Qulnn of Toledo and J. \\'.
McCord of Columbus. Ohio, for the executive
committee. Adjournment then was
taken until 2:3u p.m. when President
Wood row Wilson was scheduled to make
an address.
President Metcalf s Address.
In his address President Metcalf assailed
the railroads in strong terms for
.the transportation facilities afforded
the shippers during the past year, as,
serting that tbey -have been "unusually
^inferior, inadequate and extremely un
satisfactory."
[ "It seems to be a self-evident fact,"
Mr. Metcalf declared, "that the railways
are growing more incompetent
svery year to take care of the ahlp(
Continued on 8econd Page.)
P
HUGHES SEES PERIL
TO AMERICAN UNITY
Duty of Each Generation to
Stand for Honor of
the Flag.
DIGNITY DF P1TI7FN<1HIP
SHOULD BE CONSERVED
Points Ont Future Possibilities of
Agitation and Disturbance?Opens j
His Campaign in Ohio.
DAYTON, Ohio, September
25.?The United States will not
endure unless each generation
stands firmly for the dignity of
American citizenship and the
honor of the flag, Charles E.
Hughes today told an audience of
civil war veterans.
"What I most want to see in this.
country," Mr. Hughes said, "is to have
our young men, our middle-aged men,
all our men and our women, too, fired
with the patriotic spirit of '61.
"You veterans aided in preserving the !
Union at a critical time, but in a very
true sense every generation must preserve
the Union. We are still a very
young country, as compared with em-j
pires of the past that have fallen into
decay. We cannot be preserved alone
by the valor of our ancestors, by those
of an earlier day, but we can, indeed,
be preserved if we keep alive their
spirit. /
Love of Country Needed.
"As I look to the future and greatly
desire that we should find solution for
the economic problems of our country
I am deeply .impressed with the fact
that we must have a driving power of
progress, of love for our country.
"Whatever our race, whatever our creed,
wherever we SDrine from, wherever rmr
fathers were born, we must have an intense
devotion to our country, the United
States, if we are going to go ahead in the
troublous days of the twientieth century
and hold our nation where it belongs in
the front rank of the nations of the
world.
"Surely, my friends, you must look into
the future with some concern, as you
think of the possibilities of agitation and
disturbance in this land.
"We, you and I, so far as I could, labored
in the past for the preservation of
the Union; but the union of the states
must be typical of a union of spirit. We
must have a sense of comradeship that is
very real. Labor in all its activities must
feel that its work is dignified by justice.
"I look to the United States of the future
as a nation with governmental j
policies which , will maintain general j
prosperity, as a nation prepared for j
every emergency. We seek peace, but j
we are firm in the determination thati
, we will enforce American rights and have
peac^with honor and security.
Dignity of Citizenship.
"We desire nothing but that to which
we are justly entitled. We want the
esteem of all nations. We covet nothing;
but, my friends, the Union which
you fought to maintain will not long
be* preserved unless we maintain in this
generation firmly the dignity of
American citizenship, the honor of the
American flag.
"The republican party has been the
party of national honor. In our international
relations under republican administrations
the dignity and prestige
of the United States has neen of the
The nominee's reiteration of his stand
for the enforcement of American rights
"with regard to lives, property and
commerce throughout the world" was
greeted by cheers. The nominee
spoke in a hall just outside the grounds
of the Soldiers' Home.
Mr. Hughes had intended to deliver
four addresses here today. The throat
specialist accompanying him vetoed the
arrangement. The nominee will deliver
one more address in Dayton at the auditorium
tonight. His voice seemed to
hav^ improved.
Continues Ohio Trip Tomorrow.
Mr. Hughes left Indianapolis early today
to open his campaign in Ohio. He
will leave Dayton early tomorrow to
continue his trip through Ohio. He expects
Gov. Willis. Senator Harding.
Myron T. Herrick. James R. Garfield
and other party leaders to accompany
him.
Mr. Hughes yesterday followed his
usual procedure of resting Sunday. He
spent the day at the home of Charles
W. Fairbanks, his running mate.
With Mrs. Hughes and Mr. Fairbanks,
the nominee went to church in
the morning and took a motor ride in
the afternoon. There was also an informal
reception late in the day at the
Fairbanks' home, where Mr. Hughes
met many of Mr. Fairbanks' close
friends and neighbors. Mr. Fairbanks
left today on a speaking tour that will
carry hirn to the Pacific coast. His
first speech was scheduled at Omaha
tomorrow evening.
Mr. Hughes' speech this evening will
formally open the republican campaign
! in Ohio. Other speakers on the proi
gram are Charles W. Fairbanks, Gov.
j Frank B. Willis. Myrori T. Herrick and
j Venizelos Leaves for Saioniki.
LONDON, September 25,
4145 p.m.?A dispatch to the
Star from Athens says former
Premier Venizelos of
Greece has gone to Saioniki.
One Hundred Doctors Assemble.
I.VDIANAPOLIS. Ind., September 25.
?The American Association of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists opened its
twenty-ninth annual convention here
today, and will remain in session for
three days. More than 100 physicians
from all parts of the country are in
attendance. I>r. Hugo O. Pantzer of
Indianapolis is president.
Sweet to Open Campaign Wed-?sday.
Assistant Secretary Edwin . . Sweet
of the Department of Commerce plans
to leave tomorrow for Michigan, where
Wednesday he will begin his campaign
for election as governor of the state.
He will make his first speech of this
campaign at Sturgls Wednesday at the
opening of a five-day celebration In
connection with the dedication of a
power dam.
BITTER CAMPAIGN
TO ENDTOMORRDW
Voters of New Jersey to
Choose Between Rivals for
Political Honors. i
BOTH PARTIES DISTUpBED
BY FACTIONAL QUARRELS
Candidates to Be Nominated for U. S.
Senator, Representatives in Congress
and Governor.
Special Dispatch to The Star.
NEWARK, N. J., September
25.?Tomorrow's primary election
in New Jersey will end the most
bitterly fought campaign that the
state has seen since the adoption
of the direct primary law in 1907.
Most of the fighting has been on
the republican sidd, although some
sturdy blows have been struck ir.
the contest between Senator
James E. Martine and AttorneyGeneral
John W. Wescott for the
democratic senatorial nomination.
Among republicans intense bitterness
has developed in both the gubernatorial
and senatorial contests. What
started as a friendly test of popularity
has degenerated into a cat-and-dog
I fight, in which personalities are freely
1 used and long-forgotten sores reopened,
not by the principals themselves,
but by lieutenants, whose activities
in this regard have not been
publicly reprobated by the chiefs whom
iney proiess to ?cive.
Joyous Day for "Camp Followers."
It has been a juicy and joyous campaign
for the army of camp followers
who are always within hearing
distance when a barrel is to be tapped.
Money has been spent like water. It
was a mighty poor man who could not
get a job with one or another of the
candidates. The federal corrupt practices
act limits the amount that any
senatorial candidate may spend in the
primary campaign to $5,000, and the
state law puts a limit of $2,500 on
gubernatorial candidates! Both laws,
however, are full of loopholes, and
$100,000 is a moderate estimate of the
amount already expended by the two
candidates for senator and two of the
three candidates for governor.
For senator the contestants are
Franklin Murphy, farmer governor, and
Joseph S. Frelinghuysen, for two terms
member of the state senate and at
present president of both the state
board of agriculture and the state
board of education. Murphy is ?gyejUy~
one years old and several times a millionaire.
Frelinghuysen is forty-seven,
and if not in the millionaire class is
at least in no danger of experiencing
the pangs of poverty. Former Gov.
Edward C. Stokes had intended to be a
candidate and makes no secret of his
beuer tnat ne should have heen awarded
the nomination without a contest, but
he refused to buy chips in a game in
which the sky was the limit. He is
now giving the weight of his influence
to Murphy, not because of any particular
love for the latter, but because
of a bitter feud existing between him
and Frelinghuysen. Murphy is a pronounced
standpatter and has the. support
of the organization in most of the
counties, besides a private one of his
own. Frelinghuysen is "regular" with
independent tendencies. He expects the
support of a majority of former progressives.
Aspirants for Governorship.
The republican candidates for governor
are Walter E. Edge, Austen Colgate
and George L. Record. The fight
is between Edge and Colgate. Both
men are reputed millionaires and
neither squeezes his purse when he
wants something. Colgate has the support
of the organization in his home
county, Essex, which includes the city
of Newark. Edge has its backing almost
everywhere else. In Essex the
organization is for Murphy and Colgate,
because both are from that
county. Elsewhere in the state the
combination is Edge and Murphy. Colgate,
like Frelinghuysen, has the indorsement
of former progressives. Colgate
charges that Edge, a year or more
ago, declared that he would not be a
candidate for governor and pledged
himself to support his present rival
At that time Edge was expected to run
for senator. Colgate has the proofe
to back up his assertion. Edge's;
friends say that if he ever made such
promise it was in a jocular .way and
was not intended to be taken seriously
Colgate bases his claims on his ability/to
poll a heavier vote than Edge ir
the two populous counties of Essex and
Hudson, while having equal strength
elsewhere throughout the state. His
home is in* Essex, where he has twice
been elected to the state senate, while
in Hudson he and his brothers control a
business employing 2.500 men and are
very popular with unorganized labor
Edge is citing his legislative record ir
DOin asHemujy anu Beuaie cu prove i-nai
he would give the state an efficient, economical
and businesslike administration.
Senator Martine Has Opposition.
For a long time It seemed that Senator
Martine would have no serious opposition
for renomination, although it was
well known that the administration would
be Just as well pleased to see some one
else occupy his seat in the Senate. Finally
John W. Wescott, who jumped into
fame by making the best nominating
speech at the Baltimore convention and
the poorest at St. Ix>uis, was prevailed
upon to becomea candidate, and the word
was quietly passed around that a vote for
Wescott was a vote for Wilson. Wescott,
however, has done' very little to
push his own candidacy, while Martine
has gone his blithesome way over the
state, shaking hands with the proletariat
and scattering pearls of eloquence from
Sussex to Cape May. Martine has a
strength with the rank and file of the
party that not even the displeasure of
the administration can shake.
Congressional Contests.
All of the twelve present representatives
in Congress from New Jersey
are candidates for renomination with
the exception of Archibald C. Hart of
the sixth district. The nomination of
a candidate to succeed him is being
hotly contested in both parties. Only
in the fifth, eighth and tenth districts
is there any opposition to the renomination
of the sitting members. In
the fifth Representative Capstick's
most formidable opponent Is Charles
4r
4
^ A
^ %
\"
V
X. Fowler, who for fourteen years rep- |
resented the district in the lower j
House, and who was for several sessions
charman of the committee on
banking and currency. Capstick lost
favor by his vote on the McLemore
resolution, and has a hard fight on his
hands. The opposition to Gray in the
eighth and Eehlbach in the tenth will
not worry them much.
Eugene Kinkead, democrat, who for
three terms represented the eighth district,
wants to go back. He left Congress
to become sheriff of Hudson county,
at a salary of $10,000 a year, and
still has a year of his term to serve.
Nevertheless he is out for the demo
three-cornered flght, the other contestants
being Gerald McDpnaJd of'Hudson,
' tire defeated democratic' candidate of
two years ago, and Owen P. Coulon of
Essex. The district is partly in Hudson
and partly in Essex and is good fighting
ground.
Wittpenn Is Unopposed.
H. Otto Wittpenn of Hudson county,
naval officer of the port of New York, is
the unopposed democratic candidate for
governor. Three years ago, at the request
of the administration and to promote
harmony, he withdrew as a candidate.
with the understanding that this
year he would be given unanimous support.
That promise has now been redeemed.
Wittpenn is regarded as a
strong candidate.
Political wiseacres predict that Murphy
and Edge will be the winners tomorrow
in the republican primaries, and that
Martin will defeat Wescott in spite of the
fact that the latter wears the administration
lable. Indications point to a close
. vote and a small majority in all three
contests.
ADJOURN TO ATLANTIC
: CITY FOR CONFERENCES
' The Mexican-American Commission
Members to Continue Meetings
at New Jersey Resort.
i
J Atlantic City was chosen today as the
j new meeting place of the Mexicani
American commission, now sitting at
' New London. The selection was made
! by EUseo Arredondo, the Mexican ami
bassador designate, and Assistant Sec1
retary Phillips of the State Department,
. and later the commissioners were not
titled that they could proceed to AtlanJ
tic City whenever they saw fit.
i- The change was decided upon because
! the hotel at which the commissioners
are making their headquarters in New
' London closes this week for the season.
1- After his conference with Mr. Phillips
Mr. Arredondo called on Secretary Lan
sing to give him the latest advices from
Mexico regarding the recent mid on
Chihuahua City. He reiterated that no
report from any source indicated that |
Villa personally took part in the raid.
Commission Resumes Deliberations.
| NEW LONDON, Conn., September .*.5.?
The Mexican-American joint commission
today began the fourth week of its investigation
of border conditions in its ef'
fort to bring about an adjustment of international
questions.
The Mexican representatives were still
insistent that their army is capable of
maintaining peace in northern Mexico and
. that rfexatrons between the two countries
would be greatly improved by the withdrawal
of the American forces. The Ajneri
icans Insisted on further study of Mexico's
internal affairs, adhering to their position
that any agreement entered into
must be so broad as to make reasonably
certain the safety of American life and
property throughout Mexico.
More reports from the War Department,
supporting the charges that outlawry
in the state of Chihuahua is showing
signs of increase, were in the hands
of Americans. The Mexicans were prepared
to submit counter reports indicating
the insignificance of Villa's reappearance.
Movie Theater Damaged by Bomb.
CHTCAGO, September 25.?The explosion
of a bomb badly damaged a
large State street moving picture theater
here early today, broke a number
of plate glass windows and shook
buildings for several blocks around.
The police attribute the use of the
bomb to the rivalry between different
i motion operators' unions.
NEW HIGH RECORD
FOR STEEL COMMON
Hits 120, a Jump of Three
Points From Saturday's
Top Notch. - Special
Dispatch to The Star.
NEW YORK, September 25.?Steel
common made a new high record on the
New York Stock Exchange today, reaching
120 midway in* the second hour of
the morning, a jump of three points
from the closing at 117 Saturday.
On the stock exchange the wildest
excitement prevailed, with the interest
centered in Steel common, the cdpper
shares and some of the motors, to the
neglect of the old standard rails.
The public was in the market, fairly
running away with its favorite speculative
and investment securities. There
is talk of 150 a share for Steel in the
not distant future, and those who make
the prediction seem to believe it.
Steel Orders Turned Down.
The "Wall street market always goes
with the tide. Just now the inflow toward
higher levels is a rushing flood.
Orders for steel are being turned
down. Demand for the metal for contracts
on munitions is unprecedented.
War orders go begging, even with assurance
of large orders. Owners of
steel mills are hoping against hope that
the railroads of the country will not require
any large amount of rails, so urgent
is the foreign demand for steel
products.
Brokers' offices in and out of the
financial district have been crowded
from morning to night. No one seemed
to care anything about the strike, the
market was the whole thing.
Shout Greets Opening Price.
When Steel started at 118 today
there was a wild shout, which was
equaled only when the tape told this
story: "Steel common, 118%; 500 at %,
2,000 at %, 5,000 at 119," the action taking
less time than the reading of the
quoted matter.
And then came the wildest moment of ;
all on 'change and in the brokers'
offices when 120 was reached, with
enormous trading, for this was the
point many buyers had selected as the
right place to take profits. The selling
was so fast that the price again was
off fractionally.
Market Gradually Eases Off.
On this selling the market gradually '
eased off to 118% for Steel, where it i
remained until the end of the second
hour of the afternoon. ]
Earnings of the Steel Corporation, 1
according to the bost estimates obtain- *
able, for the quarter ending September
30, are placed at ?y?,uuu,ouo. If this i
estimate is reached it will mean that
the profits of the corporation are equal *
to $60 a share on the common stock.
All the activity of the exchange was
not confined to Steel common, although
a larger percentage of interest was ,
displayed here than elsewhere in the '
list. >
The activity was something ter- <
mendous, in the first hour 635,000
shares, all told, were sold; up to noon
the sales were more than 1,000,000 1
shares, and up to 1 o'clock this afternoon
the sale of 2,554,200 shares indi- <
eating that more than 2,000,000 shares i
would be the total sales for the day.
Elsewhere in the market copper,
smelting, Central Leather and minor
steel stocks showed large speculative
interest and^ average gains of two to
three points.
In the meantime the standard rails,
favorites in nearly every big, broad
investment markfet Wall street has
witnessed, were more neglected than
usual, with a disposition toward weakness
in flle midst of much strength.
After the first hour of the afternoon
Steel common became more quiet, occasional
100 and 200 share lots selling, where
morning transactions had been in thousands.
The price for the second hour of
the afternoon remained around 118%,
Shortly after 1 o'clock the railroads,f
2 '
\\x you'? ch0ice./ms
Vv OF THESE ''M
\ hanpr \ .
V R.EVOLV ERS Cheap
? v >
^ wack^in _ ^
!s4l!ii
which had been little better than nominal,
began *to attract more attention,
while the industrials were more neglected.
f
In this movement the leading rails.
Union Pacific and Reading, gained nearly
2 points, while there was much better
strength shown in the rest of the group.
CHEMISTS IN SESSION.
Nearly Every Phase of IndustryRepresented
in Convention.
NEW YORK, September 25.?Nearly
every phase of the chemical industry
apd~7ft08< Of the leading chemical concerns
of the United States are represented^
the exposition of chemical in
dustries which opened here today with
the annual conventions of the American
Chemical Society, American ElectroChemical
Society and the technical section
of the Paper and Pulp Association.
These meetings are expected to bring
together the largest assemblage of
chemists in the history of the profession.
Today was devoted to the opening
of the exposition and displays of
moving pictures illustrating technical
subjects.
Dr. Thomas H. Norton, agent of the
Department of Commerce, who is at
tending the meetings, said he believed
the United States, within the next six
months, will be producing enough dyes
to meet a normal demand. This country
is dependent upon Europe only for
very special colors, such as are used in
the paper money and in its postage and
revenue stamps, he said. He considers
the demand at present abnormal. ^
GERMANS ARE HALTED
IN ATTACK AT VERDUN
Inactivity Prevails on Somme Front,
According to the French
War Office.
PARIS, September 25, via London,
2:45 p.m.?German troops made an attack
on the Verdun front last night
near Vaux-Chapitre wood. The war
office report of this afternoon says the
attack failed. Inactivity prevails on
the Somme front, although heavy artillery
engagements are in progress.
Official French Report.
The statement follows:
"On the Somme front there was spirited
artillery fighting last night in
various sectors and also south of the
river.
"On the right bank of the River
VTeuse we easily repulsed a German attack
upon one of our works to the east
?f Vaux-Chapitre wood.
"To the southwest the artillery fighting
continues with intensity in the sec
tors of Thlaumont, Fleury and VauxLthapitre."
Reports Repulse of Allies.
BERLIN, September 24, via London.
September 25.?The great, battle on the
Somme front, in France, says today's
jffldal statement given out at German
irmy headquarters, is again in full
swing.
Anglo-French attacks last night near
"'ourcelette, Rancourt and Bouchavesnes
ire said to have failed.
Fever Commission Arrives in IT. S.
NEW YORK, September 25.?The yelow
fever commission of the Rockefelsr
Foundation arrived here today on
:he steamship Brazos from San Juan
ifter a two-month study of sanitary '
jondltions along the west coast of
South America. The commission, it
ivas said by Maj. Gen. William C. GorSas,
surgeon general of the United
States, and chairman of the commission.
will remain here only long
snough to obtain accommodations on
the next steamer leaving for the South
American east coast.
LABOR IN NEW YORK I
VOTESAMO STRIKE
Unions Representing 100,000 I
Workers to Pass on Sympathetic
Walk-Out.
OSCAR STRAUS DEMANDS I
ADDITD ATlftM DC ICCIICC
rtnui I I1M I IUI1 VI IOOULvJ
Some Milk Wagon Drivers Go Out, Rejecting
"Master and Servant
Contracts."
? NEW YORK, September 25 ?Labor
organizations, including about 100,000
workers, met today to vote on the question
of Joining in the proposed general
strike to take effect here Wednesday .
morning. Ernest Bohra, secretary of
the conference of labor lexers direct- 1
ing the movement, asserted that unions ,
representing 179,500 workers already
had voted to quit work.
In some instances it appeared that ;
the strike movement had been approved
by the executive committee or executive
councils of the governing bodies
of trade unions, but had not yet been
passed upon by the local unions. In
other cases the unions have empowered
their officials to call them out. One
large union voted to quit work if the
other trade unions did the same.
X<eaders to Dffeet.
A meeting of the leaders will be held
this afternoon to hear the reports from
the local unions. Among those to vote
today are the machinists, metal workers,
laundrymen and butchers.
Secretary Bohm asserts that, if the
general strike becomes effective, it will
not last more than two days, as he believes
it will quickly force the traction
companies to arbitrate with their
siriKing employes.
Milk Wagon Drivers Strike.
^According to Secretary Bohm, the
strike among drivers for a condensed
milk company, which began yesterday
and continued to spread today, was due
to an attempt by the company to enforce
upon the men the "master and
servant" form of contract, one of the
issues in the traction strike. * This
company's example was being followed
by other employers, he said, and would
not be tolerated. The milk drivers'
strike would be extended to other milk
companies, he declared.
Oscar Straus, chairman of the public
service commission, has issued a statement
in which he declares that the
public, which already has been greatly
inconvenienced by the strike, is demanding
that both the carmen and
their employers submit their differences
to arbitration. The question, he asserted,
now concerns the 5,000,000 innocent
persons- in Greater New Yprjt in a
larger measure than organized* labor
on the one hand and the operators of
the transit lines on the other.
"Public Demands Arbitration."
"The public demands arbitration,"
said Mr. Straus, "and makes its demand
strong enough that the traction
companies and the unions will have to
consent. Neither side has been free of
wrong, and the public is^tired of the
inconvenience that has been imposed
upon it because both sides could not
agree."
While several unions, representing
various trades, met yesterday and discussed
plans for the threatened "suspension
of work" Wednesday, active
picketing of the transit lines declared
"unfair" by organized labor was begun
by thousands of men and women.
Sentinels were posted throughout the
city to watch for union men riding on
the cars. All cases of the kind will be
reported to the unions to which the
men belong, and fines will be assessed,
it was said.
Eight hundred coopers, affiliated with i
the Longshoremen's Union, it was announced,
voted in favor of a general
strike. They will take no further ac- .
tion, however, until a decision is
reached by the longshoremen, it was ;
said.
Situation Is Unchanged.
except ior sporadic attacics against
elevated railway trains by men lurking
on housetops, there was little outward
change in'the situation. Service
on the subway and elevated lines continued
normal, while surface car travel
showed improvement.
What- few attacks there were upon
cars were of a minor character, according
to the police. No one was injured.
Jitneys and various other vehicles
pressed into service during the strike
apparently did a thriving business, especially
on the east side of the city,
where many union sympathizers refused
to patronize the transit companies.
j
FOR INCREASED EFFICIENCY.
Supervisory Association Plans the ;
Betterment of Postal Service. <
LOUISVILLE. Ky., September 25.? '
Plans for increasing the efficiency of the ]
postal service will figure prominently ]
in the sessions of the ninth annual con- 1
Vcntion of the National Association of 1
Supervisory Post Office Employes, which 1
began here this morning. About 100 *
delegates drawn from all sections of the *
country were present at the first ses- j
sion. .
The visitors were welcomed by Mayor j
John H. Buechfmeyer and Postmaster''
P. T. Schmitt, the response being made j
by Ernest Green of Baltimore, presi- 1
dent of the association. r
The morning session was the only one. I
held today, the afternoon being given ?
over to an automobile ride in the city
with a luncheon at its conclusion. The C
first business session will be held Tues- c
day morning. j
I
PROSECUTOR MURDER SUSPECT c
. ?? r
Special Grand Jury to Investigate ?
Case of Missouri Attorney. J!
ST. JOSEPH, Mo.. September 25. A 6
special grand Jury investigation of the
case of Oscar D. McDaniel, prosecuting e
attorney of Buchanan county, arrested' (]
last night on a warrant charging him t
with the murder of his wife, was ordered
today by Judge Thomas F. Ryan
of the criminal court.
Mrs. McDaniel, who came from a socially
prominent family, was shot to t(
death in her home on the night of July
15. Bart M. Lockwood, special prosecutor,
declared today that domestic rela- ?
tions and an alleged quarrel resulting o
from accusations by Mrs. McDaniel n
would be put forward by the state as a
contributory conditions for the mur- tl
der. ' 1
i
MA BATTLES
REACHIADEAOLOCK
Little Progress on Either Side
Since Halting of Von Mackensen's
Drive.
CHIEF BALKAN ACTIVITY
IS ON MACEDONIAN FRONT
Bulgarian Lines Are Being Attacked
by Enssians, Serbs, British
and French.
LONDON. September 25.?
Latest reports regarding the important
campaign in the Rumanian
province of Dobrudja indicate
a lessening in the intensity
of the struggle between the invading
armies of the central powers
and the Russians and the Rumanians
facing them.
Field Marshal von Mackensen's
initial attempt to break the allied
lines formed to defend the Constanza-Tchernaveda
railroad evidently
having failed, the opposing
forces have apparently now virtually
deadlocked along the front
from the Danube to the Black sea.
Progress Along Coast.
The current statement from Bucharest
announces only artillery duels
along: the Danube. It declares, however,
that the Rumanians have made
some progress on their left flank,
which rests on the seacoast.
In their invasion of Transylvania the
Rumanians report success in an attack
at Hermannstadt, where 300 men and
Ave machine guns were captured.
Nearly 7,000 prisoners have been taken
by the Rumanians so far in their Transylvanian
campaign.
Serbians Launch Attack.
The Serbians have begun an attack at
Starkovgrob in the mountain chain which
is a continuation of the Kalmakoalan
range in Macedonia, according to an
Athens Exchange Telegraph dispatch.
Starkovgrob is important as a position
in the Tzouka fort that dominates the
right side of the valley from Fiorina to
Monastir, *the left side of which is dominated
by the Baba mountain chain.
The Serbian advance on Monastir can
only begin when, the Tzouka-Baba positions-are
captured. The Serbians also
are opposed by the defenses at Kenali,
consisting of sixteep lines of German
tfenches.
A British official communication*
from Saloniki issued here last night says:
says:
"On the Struma front, having crossed
the river at three places, our troops
occupied Jenmita, which had been set
on fire, driving the enemy before them,
-1 IToro n.Unuhola nrh.ro
they met with strong opposition. Our
artillery entirely dispersed a counter
attack from Navel-Jen."
Russians Take Offensive.
PARIS, September 25, via London,
2:45 p.m.?Russian troops on the
western end of the Macedonian front
took the offensive last night. The war
office announced today that they had
captured Hill 916, west of Fiorina,
which had been fortified strongly by
the Bulgarians. A Bulgarian counter
attack was checked by French and
Russian artillery and bayonets.
French artillery fire caused an outbreak
of flames in Doiran, and French
troops made progress on their left
wing. On the Broda river Serbian
troops reached the frontier, and
French infantry made a slight advance
to the north of Fiorina.
French infantrymen have occupied
the first houses of Petorak. as a result
[>f a spirited fight, and they also have
made a slight advance to the north of
Fiorina. To the west of this town Russian
troops captured by assault Hill
169, which had been strongly organized
by the enemy. In this same locality a
Bulgai^an counter attack was checked
ay the fire of our artillery and then repulsed
at the point of the bayonet by
French and Russian troops acting together.
To the southwest of Fiorina a
French reconnoitering detachment has
lad several spirited engagements in
the country south of Preeba lake with
Bulgarian detachments fr^jn Diklista.
Bulgars Hold Kamaikcalan.
SOFIA. Bulgaria, September 24, via
London, September 25.?The Bulgarians
have successfully defended
Kamaikcalan height, on the westerly
side of the Macedonian battle front,
against repeated attacks by entente
forces, the war office announced today.
Successive assaults were delivered yesterday
on the Bulgarian positions, but
in each case the attacking forces, although
they closely approached the
Bulgarian trenches, were unable to
penetrate them, and fell back with
leavy losses.
Entente troops which attacked vllages
on the eastern bank of the
strumma were forced by the Bulgarians
o retreat across the stream.
Rumanians Claim Successes.
BUCHAREST, via London, September
'5.?Successes for the Rumanians in
jotri Transylvania and JJobrudja are
eported in an official statement issued
>y the war office. The text of the
itatement follows:
"North and northwestern fronts?
)ur advance in the I'aliman mountains
ontinues. We captured seventy-three
>risoners and one machine gun. At
lermannstadt we attacked the enemy,
apturing four officers, 300 men and
Lve machine guns. In the Jiu valley
ninor actions occurred, in which we
epulsed the enemy and captured two
nachine guns. The total number of
irisoners taken on this front up to
he present is forty-eight officers and
,836 men.
"Southern front?There has been an
xchange of artillery fire on the banks
f the Danube in?Dobrudj?. Our left
lank made further progress and capured
one officer and fifty-three men."
Italians Yield Monte Cimone.
ROME, September 24, via London. Sepamber
26.?The withdrawal of Italian
roops from the summit of Monte Cimone,
n the Trentino front, after the exploaion
f Austrian mines. Is admitted in the^^feM
talian official report Issued today. It
dded. however, that the abandoned podon
is under a curtain of fire from the
talian artillery.
*\
