gristavG InSe the RWn8
IO 3880. WbT1 jjI 9:tes
Os W~k~ng correftioft In 0h "uUmpt7.KTU-AL A*HJ .t D 0..~ 41O A ER 2AV116
BOMBS KILL 21
IN ENGLISH RAI0
99 Civilians Injured Wher
Zeppelins Attack London.
(my he Eater=atlesal n1ews servies.
l.aon. Sept. X.-The most pretentiorm
Supelin raid England has yet been callek
Upen to withstand occurred in the early
1ra of today.
Between twelve and fifteen arships o
a nOw pattern participated. Two wer
shot down Is E55e The entire crew at
ne was killed. while the twenty-two of
toe and men manning the other were
made primoners.
The casualties 06 far reported aN
twenty-eight hilled and ninety-nine in
Sared in the Lna district and tMe
persons killed and eleven iajured in am
East Midlandb town which t not named
In the oficial statemeat. Numerous fire
were started both In London and tn the
town referred to.
The military taseings inflicted was nee
Nigible. according to gir John French'i
reports, which follow:
"The latest reports show that probably
not more than twelve airships partiI.
pated In last night's raid. Police reports
from the provinces indicate thatthe
damage done was slight At one
in the East Midlands a number of bombs
were dropped and two persons were killed
and eleven Injured. It is feared two
more bodies am buried under the ruina
i this town some damage was caused
to the railway station and about a dozen
houses and shops were wrecked or dam
aged. A chapel and storehouse were set
afire.
"With this exception no other casual
ties are reported outside of the metro
politan district. Although a large num
her of bombs were dropped promiscu
ously over the districts visited the ma
terial damage was Insignificant. A great
number of the bombs fell into the ses
and Into open places.
"The metropolitan casualties are seven
teen men. eight women and three chil
dren killed: forty-five men, thirty-sevet
women and seventeen children injured. A
considerable number of small dwelling
houses and shops were demolished of
damaged and a number of dres were
caused. Two factories sustained injury
and some empty railway trucks were de
stroyed and the permanent way slightly
damaged in two places.
"No reports have been received of any
military damage."
$200,000 HOME SOUGHT
BY CENTIAL MISION
Institution to Celebrate Thirty-second
Anniversary October 15.
Tenttve p"ans for a $20.OO hume for
the Central Union Mission, which now
occupies the old postoffice building at
C2 Louisiana avenue, are underway,
but no program for the realization of
these plans ha' been outlined.
"The roject has not assumed 2e'inite
form." uid S perintendent John S. Ben
nett yesterday'. "In fact, the scheme ham
reached r more than a prellmiAnary
stage, and that only in my own mind
In my off!ce I have shown to sorr call
ers a geier.l outline of what I think we
should have, but that Is as far as we
have gone.
"There has teen much giving by the
generous pecpie of Washington in tne
last few years. and perhaps it 'viil b
impossible to launch this project for two
or three years. because of the extraor
dinary ! narnds on tho pahlic. The need
for suh :m a institution, t ullt and eqilp
pod to rneet modern requIrements. is,
however. tn ever present one."
It is pro')tble that the building project
will take on uwore definite form when the
thirtv-secord anniversary of the inissior
is celebrated. October 15. Plane for the
observance o' this anniversary ar being
made by S*uperintendent Bennett and We
associat-s.
The mission is supported by voluntary
contributiors. Church organizations have
furnished a number of rooms in the build
Ing, which rent for $1.50 a week. Beds in
the dormitories rent for 10 and 15 cents,
but it is planned to remove the wall be.
tween the two dormitories and make the
price of all these beds 10 cents.
GRAND JURY TO ACT
ON SHONTS CIRCULAR
Judge Wadhams Will Address Members
at Session Today.
Siedal to The Wsmgtoen Herald.
New York. Sept. 24-Judge Wadhamm
will address a special session of the
grand jury tomorrow on the subject of
circulars sent to the members by 'Pheo
dore P. Shonts. the president of the In
terborough Company. It is upderstood
that the jury will take some action
against the Interborough officials. thougt.
)t be only -in answer.
Incensed by what he interpreted as in
tervention cf Mr. Shonts and his %asod
ates in the grand jury proceedings. Judge
Wadhams went over the law in the mat
ter with Rob-)i't Johnstee and Infn T
Dooling. assistant district attorneys.
That Mr. Shonts or any other officials
of the companies might be indicted for
the misdemeanor of embracery was re
garded today as unlikely.
Mr. Shoots ssid he and his asancetae
were perfectly ready to face any charges
the district altorney might bring again.t
them, but. he thought at iu better taste
to refrain from comment.
"Where would I be if I interfered witi1
grand jury proeedings as .Shonts did '
he asked. "I guess I'd be In the Tombe
or out on bail. Let any man go tdown and
tamper with the grand jury and see what
will happeo "t him."
, Gustave Johnson. 27 years old, and his
wife, 24. of 'N2 Sixth street southeast,
were injured in a motorcycle accident on
'Pennsylvania Avenue Bridge southeast
last night at 11:30 o'clock.
Johson, it Is said, drove his motove
cle, on which be ad his wife ware riding,
into the matseroynie of Marry E. Fbwler,
3t yeae old, of ForeetUs, Md. Mr. and
Mrs. Johnson were taken to Casualty
epital in an amabulance. entfering from
mio wounds about the head.
Pouler was uninjured, His snachi
30a 0r $1,600 ON TimE.
Allen GeVe Lift Sattage to SUN
"ad Reire&& ostielal.
ChIlsago. Sept. 24.-Jowsph Perite, of
T1oedo. reported to the police that he
was robbed of $1,UO on a passenger train
today by a man who represented himself
as an "offical of the road."
The robbery occurred as the train was
leaving the station. Pertite Said the man
asked him to show his ticket, and then
asked for his money, saying "You are not
safe with It. in your clothes. The road
will be responsible for It."
Partile. who was en route to Salt Lake I
City to woe complied with the strang
er's requ The money stolen repre- I
sented his life's savings.
DROWNEDWOMAN
MAY BE SUICIDE
Body Found Floating Off Deer
Park, Near Mt. Vernon.
The body of a woman about 45 years
of age was found floating a short dis
tance off Deer. Creek Park, near Mount
Vernon, yesterday, by J. H. Davis. a
guard at Mount Vernon. who towed the
body ashore ard anchored it with a rock.
Later he notified Wellington C. Crockett.
of the Alexandria and Mount Vernon
Railroad. who in turn notided Jstice
Harrie White. of Fairfax County. Wash
ington and A lexandria police were also
notified.
Justice Whit.i ordered &at the body
be removed to Wheatley's undertaking
establishment in Alexandria. where an
inquest will bo held this afternoon at 4
o'clock.
The body. which is described as being
well dressel. was well preserved and an
parently nad been In the water about
eighteen hours. The woman had dark
iron-gray hair and her clothing, which
consisted of a black serge suit lined with
silk, a black silk petticoat and stockings,
and black viel kil shoes, were of the beet
materials.
Her shoes, which were size 7-B. boreai
the trade-ma-k of Marshall Field, Chi-'5
I cago. No ctheromark of Identification
was found. The body was devoiM of
I jewelry.
The woman was about five feet nine
inches in height and weighed about 145
pounds.
The Alexandria pollee believe the wont
an committed suicide ar.d that she re-,
imoved .veryt'iing from her clothing thati
might lead to her identification. One!
theory advanced Is that she jumped front I
a river steamer. Another It that shelf
fell or jumped from the sea wall near I
Mount Vernon.
At local p-)lice headquarters last night
Lieut. Hartley examined the list of mis
sing people from this city but :ould find
no one who answered t the description
of the body found
HULL MOOSE VOTERS
SWNiNGi TO HUiNlES
Test Poll in Twenty-two States Shows
Women Reject Wilson.
The straw vote taken by the New York
Herald in twenty-two States shows a 1
slight advantage for Charles E. Hughes. t
The total vote cast was 26.997-14.062 for
Hughes, 12.403 for Wilson and 496 for t
Benson. Socialist.
Of all the votes cast, 350 polled by I
Roosevelt in 1912 went to Wilson. while'(
1.638, or more than four times the number [c
which 'drifted" to the President, went t
to Hughes. Of the Taft votes Wilsonlr
got 247. while Hughes received 8 votes
which went to Wilson in 1912. 1a
In the twenty-two States Hughes leads t
in 15 and Wilson in 7. The Hughes States f
are Maryland, Massachusetts. New a
Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont. 1
Maine, Illinois, Iowa. North Dakota. Ohio,
Indiana, California, New Mexico, Nevada
and Minnesota. The Wilson States are J
New York. New Jersey, Washington.
Oregon. Arizona, West Virginia and Ken- I
tucky. a
In the Eastern States the average swing C
of the Mogee vote of 1912 Is In the propot- e
tion of thfree to one for Hughes. This c
shows beyond question that the Progres- t
sives are drifting back to the Republican
fold.
The main strength of the President.1
according to the Herald's ballot, lies
in the working classes, while the bus
iness men incline toward Hughes.
German voters, while generally friend
ly to Hughes, are by no means unani
mous in their support. Railroad em- I
ployes generally are for Wilson. In c
sections most affected by the protec- P
tive tariff policy, the artisans and t
mechanics are for Hughs. The woman r
suffrage vote in California and other It
States included in the canvass Is r
strongly Republican.
CUBA RECALIS MATNE'S LOSS
Work em Monument to Victims in
Havana Starts Wext Week.
Havana, Sept. 24.-Work will be com- d
menced next week on the monument in
memory of the victims of the Maine,
blown up in Havana Harbor in February,
13. The monument will be erected in
a. small park opposite the Santa Clara
battery, near the wall of the Malecon.
On either side of the Iemorial a staff
will be placed, on which will be hoisted
the Stare and Stripes and the flag of
the Cuban republic. The monument will
be on a base sIxteen feet in height, the
total height to be sixty-seven feet.
S0ME *AD BY,'~ THIS ONE,
Paints Cow, Smaear. Mastard en Pil
low, Causes Baggy Breakdowm.
San Rafael, Cal.. Sept. 24.-In an at-,t
tempt, he said, to emulate- Huckleberrya
Finn. Peter ticheutten, the 17-year-oia
son of Mrs. Peter Scheutten, ot Santa Ii
Venetia., oecame so troublesome that he
was sentenced to serre sixty days In tI~
county jail.
That was after Peter bad painted the
family cow so as to resemble a zebra.I
thrwnruberdown the e~mney, placed i
salt In the sugar bowl and fed the hors
sawdust iesee of bran, mered mu
tard on his mother's pillow, sold her$3
deer hound for' 3 cents, and removed s
bolt fronm the family buggy, so that It1
collapsed when his mother started for
a drive.E
1,000,000 More Nsn Needed.
London, Sept. K4-, L. Glarvin, witing
in the Obseerver, of which he is Ahdlton.
say that another mIllion men are ee
satial far the army, "If Great Britain is
wing tg win the war clean out s it
mam tar
BLACKMAIL NET
*GETS TWO MORE
15,000 Taken from One Vic
tim, Officials Declare.
B1y the Internatiemal News Service.)
Chicago, Sept. 24.-Secret service men
oday made two more arrests in their
'hicago round-up of the blackm 'syn
icate" and charged against thei) rison
rs e extortion of $15,000 from a wealthy
qw Yorker-the largest single "shgke
[own" that the government Is prepared
o prove against the band. On top of this
harge the Department of Justice claims
hat the extortionists, posing as Federal
officers, brought their wealthy victim
6ad a woman with whom he was found
ft a New York hotel, to Chicago and
kere kept them prisoners for more than
6 week in a loop hotel.
The men arrested today are: Homer T.
Prench, alias "Jack" French; James
Thristian, alias "Jimmie" Cross.
French, who admitted he was unable
o secure the required $10000 bonds, was
aken to the county jaill and is still there.
ristian, the "aristocrat" of the band.
aptured in the Tyson Hotel a week ago,
ran released on bonds.
The latest *nd most sensational of all
he governments charges against the
'syndicate" concerns the alleged black
nalling of A. 4 Wesley, a prominent
Tew York bifinees man. and Alice Wil
lame, supposed to 'be a young married
woman, also residing in New York. The
lackmallers In this case, the govern
ment claims, were Homer French. George
rwin and "Doc" Brady. Here is the
tory told of the swindling by the De
aftment of Justice:
French. Irwin and Brady. represent
ng themselves to be officers of the
overnment, gained entrance to a
oom and there found Wesley and Mrs.
Villiams. Irwin informed the couple
hat they were under arrest for viola
ion of the Mann white slave actw
Irwin, the government says, tl~
ead and showed to Wesley a forged
rarrant supposedly Issued in a United
tates court. Neither of the couple
oubted the authority of the "Federal
filcers." The next day they were
aken on a train and brought to
'hicago.
Wesley and Mrs. Williams were
aken to a loop hotel in Chicago and
chile "prisoners" there were told deft
Itely that "Commissioner Foote"
vould listen to reason. Wesley gave
p 312.500 id currency-all he had.
'hey were still held. however, and a
ew days later he secured $2,500 wore.
'hich he turned over to the "officers."
. . POWER AT-STAKE
IN PENNSYLVANIA SUIT
Ined Question of Control Involved
in Railroad Cases.
The United States government has car
led the oil tank car cases against the
'enneylvania Railroad to the Supreme
'ourt. The immediate question Involved
, whether the Pennsylvania can be com
elled to furnish tank cars to independent
il refiners In Pennsylvania. but much
roader issues than this are at stake in
he appeal.
An announcement made yesterday by
he Department of Justice says:
"These cases are among the most Impor
ant cases dealing with the Interstate
'ommerce Act which have arisen in re
ent years, and involve the question over
be transportation facilities of interstate
ailroads."
The appeal Is made from an injunction
msued by the District Court restraining
lie Interstate Cqnmerce Commission
rom carrying out its order to the Penn
ylvania road to furnish oil tank cars to
ertain independent refiners. The Penn
ylvania obtained the injunction on the
round that the order was beyond the
urisdiction of the commission.
On the question of the power of the
nterstate Commerce Commission to force
railroad to serve % customer, the ar
ment is advanced at control by the
ommission Is Imperative if the purpose
f the act to prevent discrimination Is to
c made effectual.
WILSON SPEAKS TODAY
BEFORE GRAIN DEALERS
By the Iaternational News Service.)
Asbury Park, N. J., Sept. 24.-President
Vilson will leave Shadow Lawn at 9
'clock tomorrow morning for Baltimore,
rhere he is scheduled to address the Na
lonal Grain Dealers' Association at 2:30
. m. in the Lyric Theater. He will re
urn to his summer home tomorrow
ight.
Chairman Vance C. McCormick. of the
)emocratic National Committed, will con
er with Mr. Wilson on Tuesday con
erning additional speaking dates by
rhich It is expected to, cover doubtful
tates In the Middle West.
It was admitted here today that Satur
ay's speech, in which the President de
ended the eight-hour law -and placed
tress on the prosperity of the country
ad been decided upon as the keynote
f the campaign. Much enc6uragement
ras expressed over the strict fashion In
,hich the President asserted his adher
nee to the principle of shorter working
ours which carried a demand for the
,etter relations between capital and Ia
or.
NIOTHER'S FALL KILsLS
BABY IN HER ARMS
The 6-months-old Infant son of Mr. and
(rs. Chester Forrest was killed Satur
.ay when the mother, with the child in
Cer arms, fell down a short dlight of steps
.t their home, at 217 Florida avenue
orthwest. The family had just completed
acking the household fiture and was
repearing to move when i.accident hap
ened.
The child, was ptnned under the body
rf Its mother and Its neck was broken.
t died instantly. grhe father is employed
a the District Building,
17 ARE PUT TO DEATH
AS SPIES IN BELGIUM
Ipesel to 'Ths W..iiau m idk
Amsterdam, Sept. 24.-Press disuatches
rom Masstricht. ReHstd today say -
steen ,)ersonls have been executed as a
esult of re-snt trials at wasseit, Blel
sum, on th-- cha~rge of espionate.
In all, q herty-two persons. were con
la~nd to ,deeth, amont them four
Telegraph Tipa |
New York. Sept. 24.-John Wynkoop
one 'of the younger New York architects.
has bn appointed acting professor of
design in thol-department of architecture
in the University of Pennsylvania, to
sueosed Paul P. Cret. who is in the
French army.
New York. Sept. 3.-Julian Van De
Mark. 169 ears old. of 2060 Seventh ave
nue, was accidentally overcome by illu
minating gas and died in his room early
today. The boy's mother and sater
found the boy had fellen asleep while
studying and the wind had blown out
the light.
New York, Sept. 3--The New York
Zoological Society is making a strong ef
fort to raise by subscription $80,000 with
which to orect a building in the park
suitable for the exhibition of the heads
and horns collection. At present this
notable collection is stored in the Ad
ministration Building.
New York, Sept. M.-Harry E. Booth,
10 years old, of 214 Riverside place. ClifE
side Park, N. J.. and his brother, Her
bert. 2 years old, were drowned Saturday
In a hole filed with water at an old stone
quarry in Fort Lee. The younger of the
two fell Into the quarry hole and when
the other tried to save him both lost
their lives.
New York. Sept. 24-Harry Daniels, 66
years old, a music teacher, of 351 Lenox
avenue, was found dead in his room with
a bullet in his head and a revolver in his
hand early today. He had been an in
valid for several years.
New Tark, Sept. 24.-Marcel& Sweeney,
7 years oW, of I1 Mechanic street. New
ark. was run down and killed by a trol
ley car in Market street. The motorman
did not know he had struck any one
until persons on the sidewalk.shouted to
him.
New York. Sept. 24.-Albert Fein. 28
years old. a law student at night and
shipping clerk In the day time. hanged
himself at Mr- Washington avenue, the
Bronx., where he lived, at his sister's
home. No* motive was known for the
act.
Greenwich, Conn., Sept. 24.-Esther Car
rott, 7 years old, second daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Orville B. Carrott, of Ottere
Rock Drive, Is Ill from infantile paralysis
at the home of her grandfather. Adolphus
W. Green, president of the National Bis
cult Company. in Belle Haven. The
Green house has been quarantined.
San Salvador. Republic of Salvador,
Sept. 24.-The newspapers of Salvador
comment upon Dr. Carlos Cuadra Pasos'
renunciation of his cand!dacy for the
Presidency of Nicaragia. Dr Pasco, who
was named by the government party in
June, has given up the nomination to ac
cept the post of minister to the United
States.
Annapolis, Md.. 4 bt. 24.-"Not another
midshipman can he accommodated.' said
an ocicer at the Naval Academy today.
When the academy opens on October 1
there will be 1,391 midshipmen enrolled.
72 of the 19per elass men and 62 of
the new clasw. If the vacancies are all
filled quarters will have to be provided
for 159 midshipmen.
San Francisco. Cal., Sept. 2.-Warren
K. Billings. on trial here for the murder
of Mrs. Myrtle Van Lno, one of the ten
persons killed by the explosion of a bomb
during the San Francisco preparedneso
parade. July 22. has been found guilty in
the first degree. The jury recommended
life imprisonment. Billings will he sen
tenced Tuesday.
Springfield, Ill.. Sept. 2N.-Elston Scott,
a negro sentenced to be anged more than
a year ago in Murphysboro. I., for the
murder of his sister-in-law, has been re
prieved for the eighth time by Governor
Dunne. Scott owes his life to the in
sistence of Sheriff James UA. White, of
Jackson County, on a public hanging, and
the refusal of Governor Dunne to permit
it.
Greenwich, Conn., Sept. 24,-Percy D.
Cave. son of R. G. Cave, a member of the
Parliamentary House of Barbardos, Brit
leh West Indies, is missing from Harri
son, N. Y. A general alarm has been
sent out to the police and the case has
been put in th hands of a New York
detective agency. He disappeared from
a private sanitarium in Harrison on
Wednesday. The young man has been
recovering from- a recent Illness.
London. Sept. 24.-The Dutch govern
ment has prohibited the export of cattle,
says a Reuter dispatch from The Hague.
All preserves containing meat will come
under the prohibition.
Knoxville, Tenn., Sept, 24.-The State
Supreme Court has just held to be uncon
stitutional the soscalled locker law, which
prohibits the maintenance of lockers for
bars or buffets in clubs in Tennessee.
Middletown, N. Y., Sept. 24.-Thomas
Meany, who in the Spanish-American
war served with the First New York reg
iment, is dead at his home in Ohester,
near here, at the age of 4&.
Ottawa. Kan., Sept. 24.-Dr. Josephyne
E. Davis is vindicated. A jury awarded
her $1 damages against Mrs. J. T. Shreve,
wife of the pastor . of the Christian
Church here. in her suit for $25,000 on a
charge of malicious slander.
Utica, N. Y., Sept. P.-William Bellinger
is dead here at the age of 92. His grand
father on his motherk side was in the
battle of Oriskany; and his grandparents
on his father's aide were killed by the
Indians in a raid in the Mohawk Valley.
Denison. Iowa, Sept. 24.-The congrega
tion of the Baptist church here has ac
cepted a proposition made by Mrs. Ei. P.
Williama to fill the pulpit made vacant
by the death of her husband.Mrs. Wll
liams will fill the pulpit until the congre
gation can choose a successor to her late
husband.
Albany, Sept. 24.-A call for a state
ment of the condition of Stats and pri
vate banks and trust companies at the
ole.e of business on September 20, 116,
has been issued by Eugene Lamb Rich
ards, superintendent of tly State bank
Tng department.
New York, Sept. 24.-John Forbes,
five year, old, of the Bronx. fell five
stories and lives, He wks pitaying on
the roof of an adjacent hogse when
he lost his balance at its rear edge.
The boy went bcunding from one se
ries of clothes I nes to the next. the
force of his fall seing so broken that.
except for the fracture of a frontal
bone, which will not prove serious,
he was uninjured
Madlmon Wis., Sept, 2.-.-M. E. Puller.
former head of the Fuller-Johnson Com
pany here and-a wealthy land owner, has
bee. married in S~buyler, Neb., It was
learned today, to Anna B. Heritage, Mr.
Fufler ta-Uteas oW and hIs bride is a.
Be sia ) d his bj. n. hM mr
EXPECT TO END
MAIL SEIZURES
Importers Hope for Success
Were Diplomacy Failed.
Sir Richard Crawford, trade adviser
of the British Embassy. left for New
IYork yesterday to confer with bank
ers and exporters over measures foi
Irelieving the British mail oensorship
It was learned definitely yesterday
that plans fo'r the British agent's New
York conferences were made by J. P
Morgan, fiscal agent of the allies, whl
came to Washington quietly last weel
and had an extended conference with
Sir Richard and the British Ambes
aador.
While in Washington. Mr. Morgas
did not confer with any officials o:
the State Department vecretary ILn
sing states also that Sir Richard Craw
ford did not consult with him regard
ing his plans for discussing mat
censorship cooessions with private
individuals and Arms. The State Re
partment has no offcial interest in the
forthcoming conferences. offcials said
yesterday.
It is understbod that Mr. Morgan
the group of bankers allied with bin
and representatives of the largest ex
porting firms will ask Sir Richart
'Crawford to obtain from his govern.
ment concessions lessening the mai
censorship restri6tions. which the
State Department has ben unable to
obtain by diplomatic negotiations.
Before. leaving Washington. Sir
Richard said he expected to attent
luncheon at the Bankers' Club in New
TorY today. After this luncheon, his
conference will be held with the
bankers and exporters. These confer.
ences will -continue until tomorrow
evening.
Plans for the luncheon had not fully
matured when the British Embase:
representative left Washington. It was
understood however, his hosts would
be Mr. Morgan. representatives of the
National City Bank. the Guarantee
Trust. the Columbia Trust, the Na.
tional Bank of Commerce. and the
Chase. Hanover and First Nations
banks.
Among the exporters' interests rep
resented at the (onferences, it is un
derstood here. will be the three big
armor plate companies, the Carnegie
Midvale and Bessemer. the United
States Steel Company, the Baldwir
Locomotive and the International Har
vester companies. Other firms with
large war orders are understood tobe
on the list of conferees.
TRIESTE WATER SUPPLY
CUT OFF BY ITALIANS
Rome Also Reports 'vmg at the
Hands of Austrians.
<By the Internatiemal News Service.)
Rome. Sept. 24.-Italian troops. in thej.
campaign against Trieste. have cut the
wate r supry of the -ity, according to
reliable reports receivld here.
On the Trent'no front, Italian troops
were obliged to withdraw from the crest
of Monte Cirtone after the explosien of
I an Austrian mne. The abandoned po
sition is under fire from the Italian ar
tillery. however
The offizial statement issued todal
says:
"On the 'd we gpulsed an A';.rian
detachment northeast of Lensumo.
At dayb-enii of the -3d the Austrians
exploded some mines on Mount Cirnone.
obliging our troops to withdraw. The
abandoned noh.tion is under the larrage
fire oJ )ur artillery. On the "2d an Aus
trian attack on Mount Civaron was re
pulsed.
"In the Upper Cordovole Vall-v a sur.
prise attack gave us pocsession of ar
advanced position at the summit of
Mount Sief.
HUGHES WILL INVADE
BUCKEYE STATE TODAY
By WILLIAM HOSTER.
(International News Serviee.)
Indianapolis, Ind.. Sept. 24-Charles E.
Hughes is carrying away from Indianapo
lis tonight assurances from the Republic
an leaders that Indiana's electoral vote
will be given to him in November. Mr.
Hughes. not ordinarily of a sanguine
disposition. is Inclined to believe them.
Mr. Hughes goes to Dayton tomorrow
where his program will include a visit to
the Old Soldlers' Home, a speech before
the convention of the League of Repub
lican Clubs, a review but no speech at
the fair grounds, and an address at the
City Auditorium in the evening.
He will be met at Dayton and accom
panied through the State by Gov. Willis,
Myron -T. Herrick, former Ambassador
to France, and now Republican candidate
for the United States Senate; Senator
Warring 0. Harding. and James R. Gar
field.
PAPER MONEY USED
INSTEAD OF SILVER
Spleal Cable to The Wlngton Heraid.
London. Sept. 24.-The Berlin corre
spondent of the Swedish financial journal
Affoersveerlden writes that the public in
complaining that practically all the silvet
coins have disappeared from circulation
aing them, says the Stockholm corre
spondent of the Post here. FIve mark
pieces are now very seldom seen, and
from this fact it is inferred that they
have been replaced by paper money.
which the public, views with great sus
picion.
There was only a slight increase is
the pouction of pig iron last month as
compard with June. There was no rise
in prices of either steel or iron, although
a rise is expected in the near futuire.
RATES GIVEN BOOST
BY HARVARD CRIMSONi
8a1da to The Washinstos Hrald.
Cambridige. Mass., Sept. 24.-Tne Har
yard Crimson, one of the oidest colieg.
dailies in tne country, rtoday annuncet
'that the *ncreaseed coat. of white prin1
peper had! forced the management to a~dd
P1 to the subsciptiod~ price for the col
ege. 7ear.
Students must pay $4 for the daily in.
stead of 33. Tbe Crimscn has to pay II
per ment more for print paper now 'ths.E
formerin the managernent. declared' an4
ihe onf w is twfa dancit was b1
DYING FOR 20-CENT DRAWI
Collector Is Alleged to =ave Atems
Lwiston, Pa-, Sept. 24.-John Walker,
21. Is hovering between lite and death
with his throat cut from ear to ear. while
Rastus Richardson, his alleged assailant,
I wandering about the nearby mountains
with a bullet in his left hand as a remit
of a4 attempt to collect a 2-cent beess
bill.
Walker, it is charged. has been furnish
ing liquor to the Southern negro colony
brought here to relieve the urgent demand
for labor, and It was while attempting to
collect his weekly bills that the alterca
tion took place.
3 STATES FIRED
BY HUGHES' TALK
Willcox Claims Indiana, Illinois
and Wisconsin for G. 0. P.
(By the Internatienal News Service.)
New York. Sept. 24.-Indiana, Illi
nois and Wisconsin were claimed for
Hughes by Chairman Willcox of the
Republican National Committee today.
He based his confidence on telegraphic
advices from A. T. Hart. manager of
the Chicago headquarters, and United
States Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman.,
of Illinois. Mr. Hert wired:
"At the close of a week of travel
through Illinois. Wisconsin and In-4
diana with the Republican Presidential
nominee. I do not hesitate to predict,
that Mr. Hughes will carry each of
the States by large majorities.
"Mr. Itughes has spoken in thirty-four
cities and towns of the Middle West
since last Tuesday. Three hurred thou-.
sand people heard him. Th sands of
others were unable to get the sound.
of his voice. His reception Indicated
there is no Republican apathy in this
part of the country. Mr. Hughes drew
record crowds in Illinois. Wisconsin
and Indiana.
"111 declaration in favor of protec
tion of American rights at home and
abroad; his stand on the labor ques
tion and on the protective tariff won
him great applause in both industrial
and agricultural c-nters. No more
flattering reception was ever given a
Presidential candidate in Wisconsin
than that accorded to Mr. Hughes at
Milwaukee last Wednesday evening.
"Indiana is not doubtful; It will go
for Hughes and Fairbanks by an over-,
whelming majority in November. This
claim is amply bstantiated by the
great turn-outs ich have met the
ITughes train at each of the thirty
two stops made in the Hoosier State.
Senator Sherman said:
"I have heard Ingersoll. Conklin.
Blaine and Logan and their successors.
Gov. Hughes' speech at Springfield
was the greatest I have ever heard
in a lifetispe. It hit lik&..& sade
hammer. It airoused a respense en
ment in he Andieno.." y
THOUSANDS OF BABIES
FAIL TO RECEIVE MILK
Strike of Drivers in New York Halts
Deliveries.
Secil to The Washington Herad.
New York. Sept N--Thousnu&d of
babies went without their milk :m Harlem
and the Bronx Friday and thousands of
their fathers and mothers and Thir ,s
ters and their brcthers took thi oftee
black because 410 drivers of deI ry
wagons of the Borden Milk ropny.
went on strike Throc thousand eight
hundred cases of quart hottle of milk
were not dellvered.
The men demantid hgher wages. and
their leaders say the sIrike has no con
nection with the sympathetic strike of
generat trades nions recommended by
the Central Federated Union in support
of the street rar strike.
Two hundred and fifty of the wagon
drivers who quit wob; early Friday Aere
to have started out from the station of
!the company at 3C East 133d street,
ninety-six from the plant at Second ave
nue and 117th street. and sixty-four from
that at 448 East 1"2th street.
The men who l andle the milk as It
comes from the f:rmers of the Dairy
men's Association. in Now York and sur
rounding States tI The staton.s of tie
distributing company were pr' rvared in
the early hours of ie day I :r:, :t
over to the drivers as usual. but the lat
ter refused to take the wagons o't of
the barns.
SMUGGLED RUM INTO ,AI.
Goesen, X. Y., Man Gets Forty Days
fog Supplying Prisoners.
Middletown. N. Y. Sept 24--Thomas
Kane. of Goshen. has been sentenced to
the county fil for forty days as a pen
aIty for having passed whiskv throurh
the'jail walls to trisone s Two soall
;1.bops were the mcans ,[ apprehending
Kane, according to :he police.
A short distance from the jail walls the
two youngsters saw Kane pass through
a barred cellar window a stuffed red ban
damna handkerchief. The boys hurried;
to the office of Sheriff McDowell, where
they reported the occurrence and Kane
was soon caught.
In the meantime the wife of the sheriff
went into the cellar where several "trust
1es" had been working, and on the win
dow ledge outside of which Kane wss
seen was found a half pint of whisky
wrapped in a red handkerchief.
Chea. t.Pal,Minneapoliean
Omaeha Shows Galn,
ISt. Paul. Sept. 24.-.The annual report,
of the Chicago. St. Paul, Minneapolis and
showed a total Increase of $1U1,214 in
operating revenues Over 1915. Pamue.
receipts increased )207.740, and freight re
oeipt, 31J.3gl11.
The coet of labor increased frem 36,50,
357 in 1315 to 17,)24,ti, and maade up 666
per cent of the total aperating expeas.a
SI12.8,85. Most of the wage increasee was
due to more time worked. but $90.812 was
due to advance in pay.
I olt Kill iR lst Seter.
Mahono, (Gy, Pa.. Sept. 24.-Atorirg a
storm which swept over thIs region thia
afternoon. linceard Irsehnaer, a linemsan
wast kil.' whar a boat of ltghtntru
s aptuck a shgoty in which lhc and twe.
fellow-workua, fled' for shelter. His
Comapees A egpitnjulE. 5g web 11
48 AEROPLNES
SHOT TO
Continual Air Battles Ra
Along Western Front.
(37 the Interamefme 3.essse~
London. Sept. 24.-Forty-eight a
were shot down on the westeem
during the past 31 hours, acoo g
official reports from Paris and Ussb
Aerial combats were fought shimest es
tinuously dauring the da~yght hoos. A
men on the entire front from the regim so
Havre to the Vowes were efteag. to
the Somam region aloq. aesdlng t
Paris report. 3 distinct eae ..-it e
fought.
Official claims as to the ressit ef u
Sarl field day are tentrease.y. Parts
aserts that the French fl7ens "idipte
ably had the tpper hand." whie Begge
says the oombaut generally "resulted fas.
orably for us."
The French offcial statement enemm%
atm 24 German machines brought down.
making no mention of casualties suffered
by the Prench air corps Berlin admits
the loss of six machine, and says "we
'hot down X machines of which twenty
fell on the Somme front'
The French officia: statement says
"Yerterday enemy airmen having shown
unusual artlsity. our pursuting sequdrens
auccesfully engaged them In aerial ess.
bats. On a great part of the front em
pilots gained considerable success and in.
disputably had the upperhand of the ese
nry. On the Somme front there were M
engagements. Four enen planes were
brought down. One fell in the Vaus
woods. Two attacked by sub-iUent Guy
nerner descended In flames after some
mninutes of fighting making Gurnemer's
seventeenth and darhteenth aeroplaies A
fourth machine crashed to the earth south
of Miserel'.
'Three cther machines of the Gerniane
were ser ousiv hit and fe!l wrecked. near
Eatrees and In the region of Peronne
"Four German machines were compelled
to descend in our lines It is confirned
that one German machine repoirted 5.
riously bit September 2. was brought
4 -n between Misereo snd Vanidar-ca
bonnel
"Beteen rhau'nes and HT 1r- Wx Ge
trans were brougi- don
FRESH ATilES WAHiED
ON RUSS-TEUTON FRONT
Petrograd Claims Victory and Capture
of 1.500 Foemen.
(By the Iaternetlimal Nwe serviesa.)
Landon. Sept. 34.--A fresh saries of ha,
tlee has broken out alsmg the Run=ia=
Teuton front frojp 4e Paist RIer to
M- EeumaOnR libdet soth am dab
succeeses. Petrograd riorting the cap
lure of 1.50 Austro-Ge-man prisoners on
ihe Serath RIver, in Galicia
Here. north of Zborov and southeast of
Lenberg. the Russians resa'med the of
fer ., appa-e-tivl In purruprtce of a
directdr:v, arar.st the Gahtlan streng
told G.-mrany reporte that the attacks
w-e beaten off, after tenpora ry penetra
ton of Georrnan trenches near Monajov.
the Russians losing 70A taken prioner
In the Carpathians !he Gerynaxn rweov
ered g-ound on the eastern slote of Com
hro.ao a A battle is being fougtt to
riht orth et of itlithaha. in the oobth
em apt hians
R':scia- -ar s.f , aternent
follows:
From the Pripet to the Roarntan
fro'tier heavy n h'rm is ;!ee-- ne at
tarlous plarer xNste-ds ite A 't-o
M'CORMICK PREDICTS
VICTORY FOR RYISON
Chairman Write. Optiml itcalv o !te
Pre'ident Chances
(Bly the Interational hewa herstee.l
Nis w ork. Sif i - Pr.- d< 71W -
on r nS ' ie ' -t eht ed It.a Mte
mtagn. wrot Toro r- N -'da
tarnan Mt- okt to . n ber of
thei WA-tinogton ;-dnr'smetnti roday.
lett r. - hat i e asti r 'n - t e -
Ctair Wt Or * ca l ri:re the
ep. t n I' be rvtoosedt byx :n ove-s
"The evide- 'e a rpta'. -- Mb
active en .tus" an cept.
pose of aIn Dernto nai me Se' 3:te
of the T'r. f-4m the d,- tr down
to the :t a nd ' Nis T Ie. rnt
Wilson' " t ar d ' ngth
ait r, r t I o a-sA
tho u 1%, , ilr , cor- " ' r p t
lte optr.:o; t al xx aC- 1':fe-- ,
fatina men. stiene -ductors,
artis ed-tors and tt ot-- !are pea
ing out public y snd s ing tihat the
best interest, of the ne 1 o -re, a
Woodrow Wifsen' reoortd of perform
ances in ofue dese-v-s the trr-electIon
of the PreTdent "
FRENCH AIRMEN 'BMB
BIG BLAST FURNACES
(Dy the luteruateami 'few. Service,)
Par. Sept. 24 -Last night seven
French aeroplane, threw 4# shetia of 120
caliber and tour 1Oealiber, on the blast
ing furnaces at Rombach and ThIonvltle.
Capt. Beauchanps and Leut Areucopet
pIloting two aeroptsnes this morning
threw 12 bombs on ihe blasting furnaces
at Easen. The avlators returned to thdr
base safei- after barn;; traesed over
SO kitlometres sabout AO mites
During the night of September a,
Zeppelin attempted a raId in the regten
of Calas. Being violently bombarded by
Frnch anti-aero auns it w as obhiged te
retreat wit'hout droppilne any- hombs.
Women Win More Pa~y by Walkest.
WAilma't I .~ Sept. 24 -A wastat
tial incr tse In the par* of wome, gia
era ha, been urante5d the female eplewe
of F. Plumenthal & Co's rmorocco sa
as the -esu.t of a walk-out of east
watr-,n zo:-ers. The demands ofth ,
women are said to have b~een *-tt with
a compromoize offer tr the eg~npny,
which as a. ccepeted. cnd work Io the
giSsing d1'aartmet, ,was me '
iE~Ia
n; . nw Ma
