FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA vol. in. no. 10
ituenmn
ffirtiger
ANGLO-FRENCH
FORGE AHEAD IN
SALONICA DRIVE
Vin Victories on Virtually
Every sector ot Mace
donian Front
iDOIRAN SET ON FIRE
Bucharest Reports Progress on
Dobrudja and Transyl-
r fHJUU A&irtllA?
PARIS, Sept. 25.
Allied troops have won victories on vir
tually every sector of the Macedonian
frint, the TVar omco announced today.
British troops, continuing meir successes
on the east bank of the River Struma, mado
a -successful attack on Jannlnah. The
Frehch captured a trench on the west bank
of the Struma.
Dolran has been set on fire by the bom
bardment of the Allies' artillery, says an
official report Issued by Anglqrench
headquarters at Salonlca today.
The official War ORlce report Issued today
dealing with operations In the Balkans tells
of attacks by the Allied troops at numerous
points. It follows:
On the Struma River front British
troops continued their raids and have
reached Krltsograd. Northeast of Fior
ina the French captured the first of the
outlying houses of Petoraka after a vio
lent conflict and advanced north ot
Fiorina, West ot the town the Itus
clans took the offensive and made an
assault on Hill 916, which had been
powerfully fortified by the enemy. In
this region a counter-attack was checked
by our artillery fire and rolled back by
Franco-Russian soldiers, who used the
bayonet.
South of Lake Prcsba there has been
a lively engagement. A detachment of
Bulgarians reached Dltllsta.
BUCHAREST, Sept. 25. Rumanian and
Russian troops, who launched a counter
offensive against the German Allies in
Dobrudja province, havo made further
t progress, the statement announced. More
than 300 Austro-Hungarlans have been
captured In Transylvania. The olTlclal re
port Issued today follows:
fcear Hermannstadt (Transylvania).
we have captured four more officers
and 300 men as well as flo machine
guns. Further progress has been
made In Dobrudja..
LONDON, Sept. 5. Six thousand Qreek
Kqldjjrs from thaAthns garrison .Jre
kuatdfiig lUws "Consta"nt!ne''s4 palace at
Tatol, says a wireless dispatch received
Jiere today. '
King Constantine. who has been HI. Is
if Still confined to his bed at the Tatol palace.
RUSSIANS PIERCE TEUTONS'
LINES IN GALICIA, BUT ARE
REPULSED, BERLIN STATES
LONDON, Sept. 25. On the cast front
yesterday a Russian attack on the upper
reaches of the Dniester resulted In a gen
eral engagement. North of Zborow the at
tackers succeeded n entering the trenches
of the Teutonic Allies, but later, according
to both Berlin and Vienna, were driven out,
suffering sanguinary losses and leaving be
hind them 700 prisoners and seven machine
runs.
Fetrograd, however, says that In this re
gion tho Russians took 1500 Austrian and
German prisoners. In the Carpathians sev
eral posltldns captured recently by the Rus
sians have been retaken by the Teutonie
Allies:
P PETROGRAD, Sept. 25. "There Is
Homing imirortant to report from the west
ern or i-aucamiii front," says an official
statement elve.i uut lv the Wnr nm in.
day.
2EPPELIN SHELLS BUCIIAREST;
DOBRUDJA BATTLE RAGING,
BERLIN REPORT ASSERTS
BERLIN, Sept 25.
A German Zeppelin has again bombarded
i fortified city of Bucharest, capital of
Rumania, It was officially announced today.
Fighting between the Russo-Rumanlan
and Teutonic forces continues In Dobrudja
On ttlA llnA OAtllli nf Pnti.iUnn. M&....UI.... ..
Topralser, In Transylvania Rumanian at
tacks in the region of Szurzuk and Vulcan
Fass failed.
SOFIA, Sept 25. Heavy attacks by tho
Allies against the right and left flanks of
the Bulgarian force holding the Kajhakalan
wights front were repulsed, the Bulgarian
war Office announced today.
THE WEATHER
WEATHER FffliEflARr
jid on a nw dt 9 coven in totar phvilcs by
WILLIS T, xtnnnu iv r a
ww wiete III UAtUJ(0,
JtTO recast tnr Tnnevltrnnli a..n. --
IS.r ' t0 Tueaday, October 3 The week
r T. , Mn wlth rosts rom a coot movement
i. lost week.
Tuesday, Octobei S, lo Saturday, October
ITT.. Jwlil Brow warmer and become un-
wnii cooler temperatures for the remainder
,w the week. It will become unsettled Sat-
vraay.
- Th n i ..-.. - .
1 i i "" Twiiner Movements pue:
.A eool movement Is due to develop In North-
eet United States October 2, and will be
- moderate movement, bringing frosts In
, Northwest
I iL ' ,a Rn vWf movement, bringing
-" m me iar west and frosts In the
rtfeern half of the United State ,
OFFICIAL FORECAST
it - For PhtLtJmlnhla u7 i.,,V., E.'-
'Sftoty and fut4y; not mush ehangt
, "t wind.
LRKOTH 6F DAY
.,,,, sat a.m. (Ben tu..,.. 8 M p,.
IMCLAWAKK KIVMK TIHK BHAVOtm
S .itr.. T.lda a.lLaw'iratar.. I J La.
TUICKKATI'IUC AT MACH 1MVK
L! ui ) I ii i i j it i i TH
' I tU I U I 64 I &i I 7 I I
rlw
rnnjADEiiPniA, ionday, sErTEMBER sc, 1010
CortusnT, 181S, it TBI FvsUo Lteon Ccurim
Copyright Ilarrli A Ewlntr.
MRS. LAURA B. DE CESPEDES
Wife of the Cuban Minister to the
United States, who christened the
new railroad car transport Joseph
R. Parrot at Cramps' Shipyards
today. The vessel is the second of
its type built for the Florida East
Coast Railroad Company to ply be
tween Key West and Havana.
ALLIED GUNS ROAR
ON SOMME; BLAST
WAY FOR ATTACK
Anglo-French Prepare for
New Assault in Great
Offensive
TEUTONS FAILjOfl MEUSE
LONDON, Sept. 25. The Germans
continued their powerful counter-attacks
against the newly captured Brit
ish positions north of the Somme last
night, while heavy artillerying continued
on the Somme front
General Haig today reported that
German attacks east of Courcelette last
night were repulsed. It was on this
sector that Haig's men took' half a mile
of German trenches in Friday night's
fighting.
North of -Neuve Chapelle and also
north of Hulluck the British exploded
mines, damaging enemy trenches.
PARIS, Sept 25.
Another great burst of artillery fire,
which may be the prelude to another series
of Anglo-French attacks against the Ger
mans on the Somme front, was reported In
the 6fflclal communique of the French War
Office today.
Lunevllle has been bombarded by Ger
man aircraft
It is becoming Increasingly evident that
Illndenburg has decided to withdraw every
man posslbfe from the Somme front In the
hope of securing success In the east, which
the German field marshal has always re
garded as the key point of the whole Euro
pean battle line. If Illndenburg orders this
transfer of troops or a retirement to shorten
his lines on the west front the general com
manding the operation must have more skill
than Napoleon himself. The latter almost
Continued on Taie Flu. Column On
STATE-WIDE FETE
AUGURED IN PLANS
TO GREET GUARDS
Great Peace Jubilee May
Bring All Keystone Forces
" to City
VETERANS FAVOR SCHEME
Forces Behind Movement
to Welcome Soldier Boys
GRAND ARMY officials urgo that
homecoming celebration for
troops bo State-wide.
Entiro National Guard of Penn
sylvania urged to como to Philadel
phia nnd participate in a great two
days' peace jubilee.
Marines and sailors nt Lcnguo Is
land navy yard and all patriotic or
ganizations in the State will be
asked to participate' in a great mili
tary pageant. '
Nathan T. Folwell, president of the
Manufacturers' Club, says every city
In the State should appropriate
money for tho big jubilee. Says
celebration should start wave of
patriotism which would sweep the
nation.
rians to welcome home the rhladelphla
troops when they return from duty on the
Mexican border gained impetus today in
nil sections of the city. There Is a rapidly
growing sentiment that th proposed home
coming ceremonies should be of State-wide
significance that the entiro National Guard
should come to Philadelphia and participate
In a peace jublleo which will make Its In
fluence felt throughout tho nation.
The Idea for a State-wide celebration has
been seized by high officials ot tho Depart
ment of Pennsylvania of tfie Grand Army,
and they say they are going to boom the
plan from one end ot the State to the
other.
Patriotic citizens of all types are looking
upon the proposed peace Jubilee as a chicle
by which patriotism can be stimulated
eery where within the boundaries of the
State. Plans are rapidly developing for a
parade which, In size and magnificence,
would have no equal In the history of this
or any other State.
The Pennsylvania boys who responded
to their country's call to arms are coming
back a well-trained and well-seasoned body
of troops. Not since the Spanish-American
War has Pennsylvania had such an oppor
tunity to see so large a body of picked
troops men who are hardened to service
men who could successfully cope, HHh .the
trained troops of any first-class nation.
Samuel P. Town, assistant adjutant gen-
Contlnord on rase Two, Column On
24 british brides-to-be
on Diner reach new york
Fiances Greet Scotch and Irish Lassies
at Pier
NEW YORK. Sept. 25. The Anchor
liner California, which arrived today, could
well be named the "sweetheart ship." On
board were twenty-three Scotch np'l one
Irish brides-to-be. They were met by their
fiances at the pier.
Prominent among the Scotch lassies was
Janet d. Kelr, of Glasgow, who will marry
Andrew Brlggs. She had not seen her fu
ture husband for twelve years.
Eliza Barr was the lone Emerald Isle
representative. She came from Belfast and
will marry Thomas Moore, of Newburg.
Her trunk was one of the largest ever seen
by customs officials. It was labeled "wed
ding presents."
PREDICTS DEMOCRATIC HOUSE
Congressman Dorcmus Declares Ma
jority Will Be Fifty at Le'ast
NEW YORK, Sept. 25. Congressman
Frank E. Doremus, of Michigan, arrived In
town today and at once disclaimed that the
Democrats would have a majority of at
least fifty In the next House. Doremus Is
chairman of the congressional campaign
committee. He said he had received reports
which Indicated that the Democrats would
add at least twenty more congressmen to
their list In November.
ALL SIDES LAUGH
WHEN STONE SAYS
HE ENDED STRIKES
Cramp and P. R. T. Offi
cials Deny He Brought
About Peace
CARMEN'S CHIEF AMUSED
Flynn Snys Fellowship Leader
Had Nothing to Do With-
Walk-out
The claims of the Rev. II. C Stone,
head of the Stonemen'a Fellowship, that he
had settled the recent strikes among the
employes of the Philadelphia Rapid Tran.
sit Company and the William Cramp Ship
and Engine Dulldlng Company, were riddled
nnd laughed at today by ofllclals of tho
corporations, by labor union leaders, and
by the leader of the faction of the fellow
ship which last week revolted against the
Rev. Mr. Stone.
Henry S. Grove, president of Cramps',
said: "I don't know that tho Rev. Mr. Stono
or any one else had anything to do with
tho settlement of the trouble at the ship
yard In fact we settled It ourselves." '
"The Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com
pany knows nothing of the Stonemen'a Fel
lowship omclally." said C. R. Falrchlld. Jr.,
one of the executive secretaries of the com
pany. "No doubt a number of our men
belong to the fellowship, but this statement
seems to bo only something to smile at, as
everybody else seems to bo smiling at It
this morning."
LAWYER HAS LAUGH
When Ellis Ames" Ballard, counsel for the
Rapid Transit Company, was told of Mr.
Stone's claim, he laughed and said he had
never known Mr. Stone's name to be con
nected with the strike or the settlement
thereof.
"The Idea that Stone ever settled or had
anything to do with the strike Is a huge
Joke." said Harry Flynn, local organizer
of the Amalgamated Association of Street
and Electric Railway Operators of Amer
ica. "I never saw Stone about anything,
and I never want to. He never had any
thing to do with the strike settlement, so
far as rjtnow. nor did he ever discuss
terms oiftevances with any union men.
They were the only ones who struck, so
this statement that he settled the strike
Is aperygood 'Joke Indeed."' ?
Harry T. Baxter, leader of that branch of
the Stoneman's Fellowship which Is In re
volt against tho Rev. Mr. Stone, said today:
"The only thing I ever neard Mr. Stone
say In conectlon with that, and tho only
thing I ever knew any Stonemen to hear
from him In regard to that, was his an
nouncement at a meeting that he had Bet
tied the strike. As far as I know he never
made any reference to It while the strike
was on."
Mr. Baxter was asked If Mr. Stone could
pledge the Stonemen to anything .without
telling the Stonemen to what he was pledg
ing them. Mr. Baxter answered:
"How he could do It Is more than I know.
I don't see how It could bj done, I don't
think any men would let somebody else
pledge them to anything llko conditions of
a strike settlement."
DR. STONE ALSO LAUGHS
The Rev. II. C. Stone himself laughed
when questioned this morning concerning
the stories of the strike settlement, but he
refused to make further comments.
He was accosted as he hustled from an
all-Tnornlng conference with Fellowship
officials at his home, and at first he refused
to listen to the conversation of reporters.
He said he had no time to linger, but when
he heard the nature of the quostlons hurled
at him he paused a few moments on the
pavement to repeat that he had nothing to,
say. He also smiled.
The Rev, Mr. Stone addressed three meet
ings yesterday, speaking to large congrega
tions In Darby, North Philadelphia and, In
the evening, at St. James's Episcopal
Church, Twenty-second and Walnut streets.
CUBS TIE SCORE
IN EIGHTH ROUND
Lavender Driven From
Mound Early in Gamp
by Dodgers
the-
BROOKLYN, Sept 25.- Bunched hits In
the second Inning accounted for three runs
and gave the Dodgers an early lead over
the Cubs. The avalanche of safeties re
sulted lir the withdrawal of Jimmy Lav
ender and dene Packard was sent to the
front
Larry Cheney held the Invaders to two
singles In six Innings, but the Cubs reached
him for two In the seventh, Packard was
effective and kept the Dodgers In check
durliur the first flye Innings he tolled.
Wheat showed up still slightly lame and
was taken out in the second,' giving way to
Merkle,
In the eighth Inning the Cubs tied the
we. FjRsT INNING
Flack out, Olson to JDavbert Mann went
the same way, Saler walked and wa ut
steallne. Meyers to Otaon. No runs, no hits,
no errors.
Johnston goi an ircu it .. .
nnd when Daubert was, thrown out,
rechous to SUr, Johnum was touched out
on the line whn ttHK4 hit to WertnMn,
who thrw to PeoMtw. Cutefeaw out.
YerkM to paler. No run, one hit, m
errors.
8BCOND INXIK0
wuikus Ub4 to OUoo. Wilson fenae.
YMMctolM a bit. W ahrt. rMhe-M
ttnn. NO rua. m Mt. m .
"wslM. Oto MM 'wn.
WILSON FIGHTS FIRE;
HIS TRAIN DELAYED
President Stamps Out Blazing
Straw as Firemen Subdue
Box Car Flames
President Wilson's special train, bound
from Long Branch to Baltimore) was held
up for nearly ten minutes on its way
through Philadelphia today, while firemen
blocked the tracks In fighting a blaze
which destroyed a freight car at Front
and Tioga streets.
The President almost enjoyed the delay.
He descended from his private car, talked
with the firemen, watched their work with
Interest and even assisted In putting out
the blaze. He walked briskly up and down
the tracks and waved a welcome hand to
the men as the train pulled on after the
short delay.
The ftre occurred shortly before 11
o'clock. A freight car loaded with bale
straw was found to be ablaze en a elding
near the New York division of the Pennsyl
vania Railroad at B and Tioga streets.
To get it within reach of the firemen who
had answered the alarm It was necessary to
haul It several blocks under a bridge at
Front and TioK streets, leaving a blazing
trail ot straw along the tracks. Several
tie cauaht Are- President Wilson asoleted
stemMs out small particles which were
aU.
Tb r vm tt lis belakt whoa tho loeo
sUv of ft uiMort' 4eatel twJM la
MM. T WI t tle cr wa aotatj
mated. tiprsitJUiwis oomlMMtioB la aatd to
fcavo oust Ik Wv , ,
r
MlRDERED MAN'S WIFE
HAD VISION OF TRAGEDY
Mrs. William Richter Told
Neighbor of Fears Before
Husband Was Shot
Mrs. William Richter, widow of the man
who was mysteriously shot and killed on the
doorstep of his home, Hancock and Shunk
streets, last night, had a premonition a
week ago that something of the kind would
happen.
She told a neighbor that she Intended to
move away from the place, that she was
afraid something would happen either to
her or a member of her family.
Mrs. Kate Herman, 2663 South Han
cock street, who resides next door to the
Richter home, today told of the con
versation with Mrs. Richter last week.
Mrs. Burman said Mrs. Richter would
neyer stay at home when her husband
was away. She always took her two chil
dren with her and went somewhere until
her husband returned. Mr, Rlchter'a paper
and painting shop Is on the first floor ot
their home, which Is on the corner.
Across Shunk street from the Richter
home Is a waste place ot several city
squares used a a. dumping ground. It was
at first thought by the police that Rlchter'a
assassin had shot from some place In hid
ing anong Mm dumps. Thia theory was
ohang-Mt tedoy when the dUotvs learned
more detail of the snooting.
Frhm the OMtfM of the bullet Utrouah
Mr, alcatel's Mt sfaU, an from ate neat'
Man W the , it is kUv that tke shot
QUICK NEWS
CINCINNATI.. 00 00 0
PHILLIES 0 2 110
Schneider and Huhu; Illxey and KlUefer. Klem and Emslto.
CHICAGO, 1st C...OOO 000210 4-7 71
BROOKLYN 030 O O O O O O J 4 81
Lavender and Wilsonr Cheney and Meyers. '
PITTSBURGH ,.0 0000000 0-0 71
i:o:ton, i-i b O 1 I I o I O 1 5 1 1 1
Oiimes nnd W. Wngnci; Tyler nnd Blackburn. v
ST. LOUIS, 1st K...0 OOOOOOOO 0 23
NEW YORK OOOIOOOOx-1 40
Meadows nnd Qonzales; Sclxupp nnd Itarldea.
GIANTS WIN TWENTIETH STRAIGHT
NEW YORK, Sent. 25. The Gitmts this afternoon tied the
modern tecordor successive baseball vlctoiics. They made it twenty
straight by defeating .the Cardinals, 1 to 0, in the first game of
a double-header. The mark -which they equalled was established in
1881 by tho Ti evidence Grays.
, TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Havre do Grace ince, selling, 2-year-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs
Itenrobate, 108, Davies, $3.00, ?2.60, $2.20, won; Tootslc, 105, J.
McTaggart, $3.70, $2.00, second; Burbank, 103, Tanlln, $2.00, thlid.
Time, 1.00. .
first Woodbine i.ice, Horeberry plate, ?GO0 ntidtd, foi maidens,
2-ycar-olds, 5 1-2 fuilonga rilscilla Mullins, 100, Hoffman, $44.0,
$10.50, $S.80, won; Corpuscle, 100, Itobinson, $1.10, $4.00, second;
Starter, 112, Pickens, $10.50, third. Time, 1.08 3-5.
I
PRESIDENT ADDRESSES GRAIN DEALERS' ASSOCIATION
BALTIMORE, Md., Sept. 25. Ptesident Wilson todayddicssed
lo tho fanners nnd shippers of the country an appeal for npptoval
of tho business legislation passed during his term of office. At a
meeting held under the nuspices of tho National Grain Dealers Asso
ciation spoke to a crowd of 3000 who packed the Lyiio Theatie.
- AMERICAN ARRESTED IN MEXICO CITY
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Sept. 25. Burton Wilson, president of tho
, Ameiican Club, of Mexico City, Is held in Jail tfiern nftcr being ar
rested by Ciuivmza's own secret service ineu, accoidlng to Ainci
ienns arriving heto today noiu the Mexican capital. No .charges
wore prcfcricd against Wilson, who repicsents seventeen foreign
coloulca In Mexico City as cuairmau of tho iutci national committee.
BIGGEST DAY'S TRADING IN STOCKS SINCE 1907
NEW YORK, Sept. 25. In the greatest bull mnrltet in the history of the .New
lYork Stock Exchange today steel, copper and railroad shares advanced to new high
records, while frantio brokers crowded and fought to execute orders that poured
In from eery section of tho country. At 2 o'clock 1,847,000 shares had been traded.
This figure exceeded tho total sales of any previous day ten years except March
14, 1907, the panic year, when two and a half million shares were turned over in
tho five hours. Coming on top of more than two weeks of million-share days, to
day's market surpassed anything heretofore known in that standard shares replaced
the war stocks oftrecord bull movements of recent months. United States Steel
common jumped $3 a share to $120, a record price, on the sale of 447,000 shares In
four hours, while Wall street discussed reports that Europe Is clamoring for ateel,
which tho mills cannot deliver. Late In the afternoon railroad shares were swept
into the whirl of bullish activity, Union Pacific selling' a new record at 149i, while
Erie equaled Its best previous performance by crossing 40. Before 2:10 the 2,000,000
share mark had been passed, making today the heaviest sales day slnco 1907.
BRITISH SHIP DRESDEN, OF CURRIE LINE, SUNK
' LONDON, Sept. 25. The Ilritlsh steamship Dresden, of the Currle Line, has
been sunk, Lloyd's announced today. The Dresden displaced 807 tons and was built
in 1865.
INTERNED GERMAN SHIP SLIPS OUT OF DUTCH PORT
AMSTERDAM, Sept. 25, The Telegraaf reports that tho German steamship
Septlma, Interned since the outbreak of the war, escaped from a Dutch port Satur
day. Tho Septlma displaced 1334 tons and hailed from Flensburg, Germany. She
Is owned by the Klncsburg Steamship Company,
GENERAL TREVINO'S WOUNDS PROVE SERIOUS
LAItEDO, Tex., Sept. 25. The wounds suffered by General Jacinto Trevino In
the attack September 10 on Chihuahua City are considered very serious, although
probably not fatal, according to a statement issued last night. One bullet, it was
said, penetrated his shoulder,
WORK ON NEW CITY HALL POWER PLANT TO BEGIN
Work on the new City Hall power plant, which when completed will save the
municipality more than $20,000 annually, will be started early In the coming month
and completed by the latter part of May, 1917. The construction pf the now power
plant will cost approximately 190,000, but, according to Chief McLaughlin, the annual
saving will pay for the plant within five years.
fWnsViBii w Vm two.'
ONE MAN KILLED IN MILLION DOLLAR BLAZE
SYRACUSE, N. Y Sept. 25. Fire destroyed the business district, including two
hotels, and more t'uin half the Industrial section of the town of Phoenix, -causing
a loss of more than $1,000,000. One person la known to have perlthed.' Eighty-two
buildings were destroyed. Phoenix has about EOOO inhabitants,
i ii i iii
PATERSON FACING ANOTHER SILK WALKOUT
PATKItSON, N. J., Spt. 25. Unless the silk manufacturers grant tho workers'
demands for a n?w wage scale, a call for a strike In every branch of the silk indus
try here will become effective next Wednesday.
- i
RAILROAD REGULATION COMMITTEE TO MEET
The meeting of the Philadelphia joint committee on the roasefwbla rffnrtatlon of
railroads at noon tomorrow In the Bourse will mark a new stop in lta national cam
paign to remove the railroads from the Jurisdiction of Mete cemwiUelens and piece
thefB under excluelye Federal regulation,
GERMAN WARSHIPS CAPTURE ANOTHER LINER
TKP HAOUJS. Sept 1$, A steeMehlii at tit Btovta Um htm eeae frtn hf
utnau vmrwuivM wm uuum raw aeeoruMte, nu t am UsHf Jttmr catred Is tM
m we " wqi
NIGHT
EXTRA
PKICE 0TE CENT
TWO ZEPPELINS
LOST IN RAID ON
BRITISH COAST
-
Perfected Defense Guns
Bring Down Air Cruisers
in Raid
30 KILLED, 110 HURT
English Officials Seek to Learn
Construction Secrete of
Craft i
LONDON, Sept . Officials of the Hoval
Flylnr Corps hae begun an examination
of tho two Zeppelins brought dawn rfnrlnv
.the raid of Saturday night and Sunday
morning witn a view to discovering secrets
or tneir construction. The raid. In which
more than fourteen or fifteen exeat air.
ships took part, was the most ambitious
yet attempted against England by;the Ger
mans nnd It was the first time that an air
fleet has been convoyed by submarines.
The destruction ot three Zeppelins, two
In the latest raid and one in a nrevloua air
foray against London, caused great Jubila
tion and leads to the belief that tho metrop
olis soon will be Immune from sky at.
tacks.
Considerable damage was done on the
eastern and southeastern coasts, but the
loss of two big, new-styled Zeppelins more
than offsets the losses from a military
standpoint
The charred remains of the airmen killed
In the destsuctlon of the Zeppelin near
Mangold have been collected for an In
quest. They probably will be burled with
military honors, as was the case with the
Germans killed when the L-Il was burned.
The sailors on tho other Zeppelin brought
down In the same county are expected to
be treated as honorable prisoners of war,
despite the Intense public feeling against
them. There are twenty-one of them.
Heports received early today stated that
about 130 persons were killed or wounded
In the southern and southeastern districts
of London. Fires were started, but were
soon extinguished. "
Military ofllclals declare that the air de
fenses of London have stood tho supreme
test In repulsing the fleets of raiders which
attacked the city recently and on Satur
day night In tho first Instance ah aero- "
plane brought one of the super-Zeppelins
tumbling to the. ground In flames. Latest
reports Indicate that anti-aircraft guns
scored the hits with which the two airships
were destroyed Saturday night. The latest
estimate of casualties put the number pf
men, women, and children killed In the rale
nt thirty. One hundred and ten were In
jured. Of this number twenty-eight were
killed and nlnety-nlno Injured In the metro
politan district of London.
Of the airships that took part In the
big raid Saturday night, only three of the
Zeppelins approached London for an attack,
and they were driven off by trie anti-aircraft
guns. The two airships brought down
fell near the little village of Mangold.
Bodies of the crew of one of the air cruis
ers, were found scattered about their burned
craft, badly charred. The twenty-one men.
comprising the crew of the second, were
made prisoners by a lone constable whe
was the first to reach the scene of the
wreck and then turned them over to the
military authorities.
NOTTINGHAM AND SHEFFIELD
SHELLED, BERLIN ASSERTS;
AD3IITS LOSS OF CRAFT
BCItLIN. Sept 26.
Zennelin alrshlna whlrh Hmv HAu.n
the llrltish coast on Saturday night en
gaged patrol vessels In battle and literally
had to flirht ihll wnv lhmii,h ..lu
high angle fire to reach their objectives.
mo Bumiruuy, in an oniclal statement
todav. admitted thn a.. .. ...... .,..
Znnllnfi nnd nv. dtnl1B . i. --. .
---.-. -.-. a.v ......, v .in, Mftui be
tween air and water craft. The admiralty
...... ...h ..wHiiiaiiaui aiiu oneineia -were
shelled and that big fires were observed.
52 AEROPLANES WRECKED
IN MANY AIR BATTLES
ALONG WESTERN FRONT
PAItlS. Sept 21.
With the sky fleets of the Allies and h
Qermans reinforced to maximum strength.
air activity over the western front Is grow
ing to the point where it rivals the violence
of the lighting on land, American aviators
fighting with the Allies are taking a promi
nent part In It
"Within forty-eight hours of aerial fight.
Ing flfty-two aeroplanes were destroyed,
twenty-eight Oerman and twenty-four Al
lied machines, according to the claims of
London, I'arls and Berlin. The combats are
continuing, the aviators being aided by fa.
vorable weather.
Twenty-nine combats were reported from
the Somme front In one day, the greaUet
number of air, actions ever recorded In a'
single Instance over any one section of the
western battlefield.
The Germans are using Zeppelins as welt
as aeroplanes, white the Allies are vary
ing their activities w;th raids over Oer
man cities. ICssen,' the seat of the greet
Krypp gun works, being bombarded,
BOY TEASES BULL;"
ANIMAL KILLS KM
, ... 'le
Lunge Against Body" CruAfensg,
kids oi uien Ming iteiorm
' School InmjU9
" j
MttOIA. Pa,. $t. K. Jtaeeell NM
-f fttuutvUU. Ha., mu "- bw bMtl
llui (lUa UlUa. tafieuee aeiiiiil - - '
The Ver mm. U e Winding with ek:
KkAim U Ms WMm aSaSkaaSkBI, WOrM 1SM -a
7T -TL-iTTT :." . ..." T"'t :
HO mww ip w uesea ibe MM
whiefe we tied to a stall, lb aatnkai.
wWeh beet been defcornud, reseated dta
teealag aai umem NkhoU with ate fees
ael threw ,hli Into a earner of the UeV
se vein w w wye ej
we m ereweee hU rlhe. Tin;
the) ejef teerwM semrrhee. ,
