:e abi-zona. betob
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
J JOAN
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING,' SEPTEMBER 25, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 129
J& 7 7 & j?
m
11
T
.INS DDI
UN US
TWEHTY-EI EHT D IE IH LOMDOfl Bftlfl
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Aerial activity in which two Zeppelins were brouqht down and more
than two sco'e of German, French and British aeroplanes met with dis
aster in fights in the air. forms the chief news feature of the war.
The Ze opel ins were brought down by British anti-aircraft qunners
on the eastern coast of Enqland after a fleet oF twelve airships had vis
ited London and other points Saturday night. One of the machines, with
its entire crew, was burned in midair. The other w?.s damaged and its
crew taken prisoner.
'n the metropolitan district of London twenty-eight men, women and
children were killed and ninety-nine v.ounHed. Outside of London two per
sons met death and eleven were injured. Considerable material damage
was done by bombs in London and the outlying districts.
Paris reports that French airmen have accounted for twenty-six Ger
man aeroplanes, while Berlin records' the bringing down of twenty-four
entente allied machines, twenty of them on the Somme front. Five Ger
man machines were destroyed by the British Saturday and two others
driven down damaged, while five British machines are missinq.
On the battle front in France artillery duels have predominated.
In Galicia, a Russian attack on the upper Dniester resulted in a gen
eral engagement. North of Zborow attackers entered trenches of the
Teutonic allies, but later, accordinq to both Berlin and Vienna, were driv
en out, leaving seven hundred prisoners. Petrograd, however, says that
the Russians took prisoner 1,500 Austrians and Germans. In the Car
pathians several positions have been retaken by the Teutonic allies.
In Rumania the fighting has died down somewhat in the Dobrudia
region, while on the Transylvania front an attack by the Rumanians on
the Vulcan pass, which was repulsed, the only engagement reported.
British troops have crossed the Struma at three points and taken the
town of Jenmita from the Bulqrians while the Serbs have made additiona.
progress northwest of Kamaikclan and the French northwest of Fiorina.
Sofia reports the capture by Bulgarians of a mountain crest south of
Popla.
The usual artillery bombardments and isolated infantry 'engagements
have taken place on the Austro-Italian front. Violent Austrian attacks
in the Carso region failed, according to Rome, but the Italian war office
admits the blowing up of a part of Mount Comone by an Austrian mine
and the relinquishment of the position by the Italians. Vienna says that
427 prisoners fell into the hands of the Austrians as a result of this op
eration and that an entire Italian company was buried in the explosion.
Mexican Developments Delay Withdrawal of Guard
J0
7
TRANSIT
LINES
OF
GOTHAM PICKETED
RABBIT HUNT IS
ENDED WITH TRAGEDY
7Anni:n iS..,(fm C... I.. 1 . .
in7,v c T .1 ... TL moon rising red in us last quarter
Zeppelins which invaded th- r!ri! uu 1 fm behind a cloud bank. From the
Isles last night to deal death and de- I cliy il appeared to hang stationary for
ulruction from the skies, two today ! a minute or more, then elowine- roller
lay stark and black masses of steel ' and redder slowly turned to the Der
mal aluminum in the little village of
Mangold. Essex county. .
ne came down a flaming torch,
while the second, disabled by gunfire,
effected a landing, which saved the
lives of the crew, who tonight are
prisoners in England. The crew of the
first raider died in the consuming
flames of their own ship.
The death and burning of the first
Zeppelin was witnessed by tens of
thousands of London residents, but the
descent of the second raider was a
matter of doubt until today's official
statements were given out. Few de
tails are available of this second raid
er's condition, but It is reliably report
ed that the crew surrendered to spe
cial constables.
Many who saw the shrapnel burst
ing like sky rockets about the invader,
which subsequently caught fire, think
there must have been several direct
hits. Many aeroplanes were aloft and
attacked the Zeppelins from all sides.
1 he raiders took a heavy toll of lives
before their destruction, twenty-eight j
ticrsons lielng killed and ninety-nine I
wounded in the metropolitan district of
I.ondnn. Two persons were killed,
probably four, and seventeen were
wounded in the provinces.
The property damage, while widely
distributed. Is confined for the most
part to small suburban dwellings and
shops, although one railway station
was damaged, some empty cars being
destroyed and part of the tracks
torn up.
The roar of dropping bombs was
heard in many districts where the
raiders were invisible. It is not be
lieved that more than two or three
invading Zeppelins which crossed the
east coast succeeded in reaching the
environs of London, and that two of
these paid the death penalty gives the
greatest satisfaction to the military
authorities. Apart from the loss in
material, the casualties of the last two
raids, it is believed, will have a de- j
pressing effect on the morale of the
Jienpelin crews in the future.
The fact that the airships brought
down were outside of London, both
last night and September 3, shows the
care with which the defenses have
leen developed. The efficiency in
dealing with the raiders was further
evidenced by the speed with which the
searchlights picked un the first raider
that appeared above the suburbs at
midnight.
Suddenly a searchlight beam shot
Into the starlit sky. Three more daz
zling shafts followed, and within fif
teen seconds the whirring airships were
caught In the toils, and the guns be
gan sending up shrieking shrapnel
shells.
For a minute or two the raider kept
its course; then wavered, turned part
ly away and suddenly dissolved appnr
, ently into thin air. Evidently the Zep
pelin was beclouded in the smoke and
the lights lost her completely.
"In the meantime, however, bombs
were dropping and red flares were vis
ible as they hit the earth. Then the
citv was quiet for an hour, the search
lights flashing only occasionally in the
hunt for raiders. All London within
sound of the guns and bombs was out
to see the spectacle, and almost des
paired of further excitement, when well
t the eastward a tiny glow appeared
low in the sky
I PUEBLO, Cole, Sept. 24. Will
! I Turner, aged 29, of this city
I was killed and George Roberts. '
! also of Pueblo, lost an arm early j
i this morning while hunting rab- j
j h:ts 22 miles south of this city.
i Roberts who was in the- front
I seat of the automobile, in getting j
' out of the car accidentally caqsed I
the gun to be discharged, tearing !
1 off his right arm. Part of the j
1 shot penetrated Turner's head.
i Some of the shot entered Turner's
j temple, inflicting a wound which
I a few hours later caused his death.
i Poth men were accompanied by
i their wives. I
-
DUTCH STEAMER
ENDANGERED BY
T
IT UNIONS
NOITHREATEN
TO JOIN STRIKE
MAN AND WIFE FOUND
LOST IN MAINE WOODS
I
pendicular and streaked into the gloom
or tne smoky night ground-mist.
To the watchers in Essex, however,
the spectacle of the flaming, falling
Zeppelins had all the thrills of excite
ment which marked the end of the 1-21
and they cheered the gunners and their
fortunate shots that brought the raid
ers to earth.
London expected the attack of last
night, the Germans evidently having
elected Satin day for their greatest ef
forts. But a bright moon deterred any
attempt since three weeks ago, when
thirteen raiders came over the sea.
Hie change from the unlucky thirteen
to twelve last night brought, however,
worse rather than better luck to the
flying squadron.
From the moment the first Zeppelin
appeared it was evident that the raid
ers were of the new and large types.
This has been borne out by the two
brought down.
One of the burning Zepoelins in fall-
ins crushed through a row of trees in
Essex, 'two of which pierced the lattice
v.jrk of the envelope supports. The
village fire engine was quickly on the
scene and began putting water on the
Mazing wreck.
Police constables and volunteers re
moved the bodies as rapidly as pos
sible. Some of these were charred beyond
recognition, while others were still
white and recognizable. All appeared
to be young men, vell clad and wear
ing the remnants of stout leather coats
and shoes of rather poor quality, which
is taken here to indicate that good
footwear is not plentiful in Germany.
Today thousands of persons Jour
neyed to Essex to view the wrecks, but
quick precautions prevented souvenir
hunters from making away with every
thing detachable. There were many
sightseers also viewing the damaged
outskirts of the city.
Householders along the thorough
fares heard the bomb explosions grow
ing louder and louder as the raiders
came with the speed of an express
(Continued nn Pair Twni
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
U'SODK, Sept. 24. The Hutch mail
steamer I'rinz Hendrik, which was
seized by German naval forces while
bound from Flushing for London and
taken into Zeebrugge, was in great
danger when, as the steamer was be
ing . escorted toward that port, an
entente allied aeroplane dopped a
bomb. Intended for a conveving Ger
man destroyer, within twenty feet of
her. One Dutch passenger and two
sailoi's were wounded, according to
passengers of -ti e Prinz Hendrik who
have landed here. .
Herbert l". Hoover, chairman of the
American Commission for Belgian Re
lief, was standing bo.siae the wound
ed passenger and narrowly escaped
injury. The hull of the vessel was
pi nctnred in 23 places.
The trip to Zeecrugge was due to
the fact that a research of the ship
was ordered when a special courier
threw overlioard a package that sank
immediately. An American courier
was not molested by the Germans.
The only other American aboard,
I?ador Polak, was taken ashore pro
testing vigorously. Fellow passengers
were ignorant of the cause of his de
tention.
The only woman landed was the
wife of Baron de Andriont of the
Belgian dlploraotic service. M. Beniot,
of the French diplomatic service was
removed but his wife remained aboard.
The onlv belligerent who avoided
capture- was a 19-year-old French
soldier, who hud escaped from a Ger
man prison camp. He remained for
seven hours in a wooden tub that had
the open end propped against the,
deckhouse.
The passengers report that the
Germans conducted the examination
courteously. The most prominent
Englishman aboard was W. Irwin,
chairman of the fish commission,
which regulates the depot of the
catch of the Scandinavian and Dutch
fishing fleets.
The Prims Hendrik on her final trip
out of Zeebrusse was escorted in
idditior. tc the destroyers, bv three
German aeroplanes, the pilots of
whicU. amused themselves by shooting
w'ld ducks with their machine guns.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 24. While sev
eral unions, representing various
trades, met today and discussed plans
for the threatened "suspension
work" Wednesday in aid of the carmen
who quit their places September 6th,
active picketing of the transit lines
which have been declared "unfair" by
organized labor was begun by thous-
ands of met! and women.
Sentinels were posted, throughout
the city to watch for union men riding
on the cars. All cases of the kind will
be reported to the unions to which the
men belong and fines will be assessed,
it was said.
Eight hundred coopers, affiliated
with the longshoremen's union, it was
announced, voted in favor of a general
strike. They will take no further ac
tion, however, until a definite decision
is reached by the longshoremen, it was
said.
Except for minor, sporadic attacks
against elevated railway trains by men
lurKing on house tops, there was no
violence. Service on the subway and
elevated lines continued normal, while
surface car travel showed improve
ment. Jitneys and various other vehicles
pressed into service during the strike
did a thriving business especially on
the east side of the city where many
union sympathizers refused to patron
ize the transit companies.
Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the
public service commission issued a
statement tonight, in wjuchjie. declared
Riat the" publiQ winch had ""'already
been greatly inconvenienced by the
strike, is demanding that both the car
men and their employers submit their
differences to arbitration. The ques
tion, he asserted, now concerns in a
large measure the 5,000,000 innocent in
habitants of Greater New York than
labor on the one hand and the opera
tors of the transit on the other hand.
"The public demands arbitration,"
said Mr. Straus, and makes its demand
strong enough that the traction com
panies and the unions will have to con
sent. Neither side has been free of
wrong and the public is put to the in
convenience that has been .imposed on
it by both sides."
o
FAIRBANKS TO COLORADO
DEN ER, Sept. 25. Additional in
formation concerning the visit to Co
lorado of Charles Warren Fairbanks,
republican vice presidential nominee.
was given out at republican headquar
ters here today. The candidate will
arrive in Denver at 2:30 o'clock Wed
nenday afternoon and will speak here
Wednesday night. He will leave early
Thursday for Colorado Springs where
h will speak in the afternoon and
will deliver an address at Pueblo,
i nursfay night.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DIXVILI.E N'OTCH, N. H.. Sept. 24.
Josehph A. Dennison, former assist
ant district attorney of Suffolk coun
ty, Mass., and his wife who had been
loft for nearly four days in the wild
ernes of the northern foothills of the
White Mountains, were found early
today. They had suffered greatly
from exhaustion and lack of food and
sleet1, but it was not though their
hardships would cause permanent in
jury to their health.
The Denninsons were discovered in
of an abandoned logging camp on the
whores of Dead Diamond stream in
the Dartmouth College grant, a wild
section of country near the Maine
border, and ten miles from the hotel
lrom where they had set out Wednes
day .afternoon for a stroll. In seeking
FDD MILITEA TO
STAI IN TEXAS
fReDUblican A. P. Leased Wlrel
until Friday did they find shelter in I daio o i nA -n. t
an old lumber shack, where they re- P.AC' Sept- 24-Th rtur" f
mained, too tired to walk any longer, the national guard regiments to their
and not .knowing which way to turn. ftate camps from El Paso has been
Discovery of the missing lawyer and ''"""- :v..uc i 'ni
his wife was made bv Earl Gould and Developments in Mexico, according to
Scott Copp, eraploves of the hotel reports n the local camps tonight,
whn had inined with irsc nf nh.. Officers of the Massachusetts bri-
persons in the hunt. As a result of ' Sade admit that an order to turn in
their successful efforts, they are en
titled to a reward of $1,500 of which
S1.000 was offered by Daniel H.
t'oakley, of Boston, brother of Mrs.
Dennison and $500 offered by Thomas
G. AVashburn of that city, a close
friend of the former district attorney.
Maor James J. Ctirley, of Boston,
and other friends of the missing
couple, who arrived today to help in
surplus equipment has been counter
manded. Men of the First and Third
Pennsylvania infantry say also that
arrangements for their entrainment on
the arrival of the relieving North
Carolina troops have been cancelled.
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Hex., Sept. 24.
An absolute denial of the report
the search, were on hand t, greet Mr. manrt hv Veneral F. P Xnfarr.ite now
land Mrs. dennison when they werei
to retuin They had lost their bearings j brought out of the woods tonight in
hi me Hiiii'i.si tiacKiess woods. .Not a carriage.
PROSECUTOR IS
URGE CHURCHES
CHARGED WITH
E
I
I
BLACKMAILERS TRAFFIC IN
BOGUS MANN
ACT CHARGES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
CHICAGO. Sept. 24. Another case in
which members of the international
blackmail syndicate trafficked on .
bogus Mann act charge by which they
could fleece a wealthy victim has been
uncovered in New York, and depart
ment of justice officials here today ar
rested two more alleged members of
the syndicate for the parts which they
are accused of having played.
According "to government officials,
Homer French and "Jimmie" Christian;
with George Irwin, arranged that A. R.
Wesley should be trapped in a com
promising position with a woman
known as Alice Williams in a New
York hotel last May. The plan was
It looked first like thesnid to have been highly successful, and
Fire Siveeps Business Section
of Phoenix, New-York
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j
SYRACUSE. N. Y., Sept. 24. Fire
early today destroyed the entire busi
ness district and more than half the
Industrial section of the town of Phoe
nix, causing a loss of more than $1,000.
ouo. One jierson is known to have
perished. Eighty-two buildings were
destroyed.
The fire burned without check for
fiffen hours. Not a stroe was left
standing, and the peo'de were tonight
confronted with a serious problem of
food supply. Looters invaded the
ruins, and scores of deputies were
swnrn in, with orders to shoot. -
Among the buildings destroyed were
the Sweet Prothers' paper mill, the
Duny siik mill, the. Purrough paper
mill. Phoenix National Bank building,
several chair factories, large ware
houses, the postoffice, four hotels and
a church.
James E. Goodwin, aged "2. a former
justice of the peace, was burned to
death. A number of firemen were in
Jured. Phoenix is sixteen miles north
of Syracuse, and most of its 1S00 in
habitants was employed in the mills.
French and Irwin are accused of hav
ing forced their way into the room
which was occupied by Wesley and the
woman, representing themselves as
government officials. It is charged
they took $12,500 as hush money from
Wesley at that time, but held him in
duress, bringing him to Chicago and
holding him prisoner with the woman,
in a Chicago hotel, from May 9 until
June 13, and that during this period
they extorted $2,500 additional from
their victim.
French and Christian were arrested
today. Irwin is at liberty in New
York under bond to answer previous
charges of a similar nature. Christian
also was arrested here recently on the
occasion of the government's raid on a
iasmonaoie apartment hotel in which
the first blackmail arrests were made.
The arrests here were based on a
complaint signed in New York Satur
day by William M. Offley of the United
States department of justice. The case
will be prosecuted by Special Assistant
Attorney General John C. Knox of New
York, who will be here this week it is
expected, to assist in prosecution of
oiner alleged members of the gang.
The woman mentioned in the com
plaint against French and Irwin, as
well as the man, are ready to testify it
is stated.
Christian was released on $10,000
bond and will be arraigned October 2
when others of the alleged syndicate
are to receive their preliminary hear
ing. F rench ir expected to arrange bail
Awuiiuay.
The agent of the department of In
tice here declined tonight to reveal the
specific identity of the persons men
lioned in the complaint.
BANKERS ARE MEETING
TU ENTER FIGHT
EUR D 0
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRESCOTT, Sept. 24. For the first
time in the history of the prohibition
party its candidates for national of
fices held Sunday meetings today,
members of the dry special campaign
ing party holding four meetings today
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. JOSEPH, Mo., Sept. 24. Oscar
D. McDaniel, prosecuting attorney,
was arrested here tonight on a sta'.e
warrant charging him with the mur
der of his wife, Harriet Moss McDan-
lels. who was found dying in ner bed
room the night of July 15. .
Mfi'iftJlifal lirwrrhi-ri . n-hr'n nrrestr-d
nd on the way to police headquarters i " lherl churches and a meeting to-
ohtained iermission to buy some night in a local theater. No apologies
cigars. I were offered for the meetings, but on
Mrs. McDaniel was found dvmg.byithe contrary the churches were urged
her husband, who told during an ex- j by all the speakers to get into the
haustive coroner s inquest of a mlsti- I light for a dry nation with all of their
fying and sensational series of cir-1 vim.
eunistance's which excited public feel-( Dr. Ira Landrith. the vice presiden-
ing to a nigh pitch. The murder of ; t'i" candidate, nimselt a preacher. par-
Mrs McDaniel was counted w:th an i ticularly urged that the prohibition
al'eged attempt to kill the prosecutor j fiKht was the church people's battle,
also, and in public statements. Mr. ! and asailed preachers who remained
McDaniel testified that law yiciators 1 non-committal on the saloon question
against whom he had been active, i oecause tney desire to "stay out of
On ; pontics.
in charge of the Carranza forces in
Tamaulipas, was issued here today by
General Jacinto Trevino.
Genera! Tre ino said that he was
still directing the operations against
Villa r.nd had received no intimation
of any charge in the command of th?
army of the north. He expressed
himself as "calmly confident" of his
ability to check the future operations
of Villa.
A Brownsville dispatch Saturday
gave a Carranza officer on Matamoros
as authority for the statement that
General Trevino would be removed for
bungling the defense of Chihuahua
City durin? the Villa attack and be
succeeded by General Nafarrate.
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 24.
Members of the Mexican-American
joint commission will begin t'ie fourtn
week of their conference here tomor
row. It is expected the American
members will continue their ' inquiry
into the social and economic as well
as the military problems of Mexico.
The Mexicans have received from
Andres Garcia, the Mexican consul at
El Paso, a report of the attack on
Chihuahua City by Villa forces, de
nying that the attacking rarty ob
tained any ammunition or that Villa
personally appeared in the city.
L.AREDO, Tex., Sept. 24. The
wounds sustained by General Jacinto
Trevino in the attack September 16
in Chihuahua City are considered very
serious although probably not fatal,
according to a report tonight.
One bullet, it waa said, penetrated
his shoulder. A new version of tha
attack was received in mail advices
from Monterey. This said that while
the independence celebration was tn
were responsible for the crime.
the niirht of the murder Mr McDaniel I "The preacher who stays out of the
testified at the Inquest, he received a "S"1- ne sam here tonight, who aims progress, hundreds of the inhabitants
decoy telephone message which took!aI notning trom his pulpit, and who Gf the citv. armed with rifles and ma-
him down town in his automobile. He ; se.8 to . see nothing fatally "iig chine guns, attacked the 300 members
returned home after -finding no onelwltn ,e "uuor traffic, ought Tn quit 1 0f the Carranza garrison, who were
who Knew of the message. As he 1"U""' rt,lu lo iouowing a m -ie i "almost completely destroyed."
No specific mention of Francisco
alishted from his car in front of his : icrobs a ten -acre tieiu. and that s the
g.irage. n shot was fired at him. he i '"T.,"r B , er , - aDout a mule-
id, followed bv several other. I .""n "TI ule attacKs witn-
Crouching hel.ind the car he returned! ,"tpTBy or equivocation the evils
th fire with a pistol which he w Jhat hurt men, it never fails of a hear-
carr;. ing because of threats which had ' . . '-'CKaaaisicai, spineless, syco-
been made against his life. He was C f""""'"u ceigyinan
uninjured and hurried into the house Ilace ln twentieth century re-
when the firing ceased. Upstairs in .:. . , , ,.
bd be discovered his wire dying from I tthL ,? - V? this l ,.to
j i... : strengthen their state-wide crohib tion
strnmenr. K,rhv theiv children still I ,aw bv an amendment forbidding the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Mo.. Sent. 21.
bankers from oil sections of the Unit
ed States ho-jan arriving here today
to attend the annual meeting of tlv
American Bankers' association, th
preliminary sessions of which will
start tomorrow. James K Lynch of
San l-raneisco, president of the as
sociation, arrived late tonight. He will
deliver the president's annual address
Among the prominent financial men of
the country who will speak at tlM
session are John Skelton Williams,
comptroller of the currency: AV. P. 6.
naming, governor of the federal re
serve board; Paul M. Warburg, vice
governor of thn federal reserve board:
Fred A. Vandorlip of New York, and
A. L. Fenton of Chicago.
o
Stops Dedication
of Monument to
His Dead Brother
slept undisturbed. Mrs. McDaniel
never recovered consciousness, suffi
cient to make a statement.
h'he prosecutor took an ective per
sona! interest in 1 lie investigation of
the murder 'and the public hearings
held by the coroner over r period of
several weeks. Substantial rewards
were offered for the arrest of the
murderer.
Several, persons were detained in
connection with the case hut all later
were released. A new feature ws
iniected bv a number of anonymous
letters, badly written which purported
to confess the crime, alleging as a
motive a desire fcr revenge against
the prosecutor.
When placed under arrest, Mr. Mc
fContinued on Page Twol
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 24. A brother of
Samuel Meisenberg, the Chicago ma
rine who lost his life at Vera Cruz,
plunged through a crowd gathered
about the monument in Waldheim
cemetery erecte'd to the marine's mem
ory and prevented its dedication today.
The brother, Edward Meisenberg,
charged that the society which erected
the monument had failed to give the
marine's poverty-stricken parents the
money promisetv them.
"I will stop this thing if I have to
fight to do it," Meisenberg shouted.
"You can't use my brother's grave and
body to advertise your society."
The dedication was called off. Of
ficers of the society said no promise of
money to tne murine's parents had
been made.
Wrhen Meisenbcrg's body was brought
home to Chicago after the Vera Cruz
battle, it lay in state in the city hall
and all Chicago did him honor. His
funeral was one of the largest ever
held in Chicago. The mayor and state
ortlcials attended.
possession of liquor, were responsible
for the coming of the dry special into
the state and hence much attention was
paid to the local situation.
R. E. Dunlap, of Phoenix, the pro
hibition candidate for governor, accom
panied the train here.
Further meetings will be held in Ari
zona tomorrow.
FAKE RACE PROMOTERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
DES MOINES, Sept. 24. John Hug-
lin n rtirnH f-jr-mns- nr KJD
identified two members of the alleged orTInf are.
synaicate or taKe horse race promoters
Mia s presence
account.
was made in this
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 24. The fi
nance department has issued a circu
lar Riving the national bank and the
Emk of London and Mexico permis
sion to re-open Monday and continue
business under the direct supervision
of government bank examiners.
o
CRACKSMEN WORK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE. Sept. 24. Defying de
tection from the hourly visits of a.
night watchman, cracksmen early to
day chisled their way into the inner
recess of a 3,000 pound safe in the
jewelry store of Steman and Norwi
gand and escaped with gems vaduel
approximately at $15,000. The burg
lars cut through the flooring and ceil
ing of the second floor and used rope
to lower themselves directly in front
Instead of blow the safe, the cracks-
as the pair who induced him to T bet", " brokf thro"f h L.TtKick
$10,000 on a race at Waterloo a year1 ;.steel Pla,te l1 nf rJorlt
ago. The men under arrest gave the .' .'? trough six inches ; of concre e
t a Kit' r ana cnisiea a sh:uiiu uuie in
names oi tirown and Ward
JEAEOUSf II DE MOTIVE
FOR ASSAUET ON YOUTH
(Special to The Republican) I
GLENDALE, Sept. 24. His lips
sealed as to the name of his assail
ant, at the behest of Deputy Sheriff
Rudd, Ernest Kake, 19-year-old boy,
employed on the ranch of Dr. Van
Morel, lies abed with severe cuts
about the arm, Jiand and face, while
the officers seek the m.in who called
him from the Van Morel home last
night, and knifed him in the darkness.
A jealousy motive is deduced, but
the name of the unknown, would-be
murderer, cannot be learned until to
day's developments prove whether or
not the flash-light glimpse young
Kale had of his assailant, gave him an
accurate knowledge of the latter's
Identity.
The Van Morel family was in town
last evening. At about nine o'clock.
Kale, who was alone in the ranch
house, a mile north of Glendale, henrd
hisname called. He suspected noth
ing, but left the house and went to
the east gate.
steel plate.
KEY.- CROSS COUNTRY RECORD
r -ublican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 24. Ten
days. 21 hours and three minutes was
the new transcontinental round trip
automobile record hung up today when
A. H. Patterson, who drove the car on
the last relay of the long journey, ar
rived in San Francisco. The distance
covered was 6,592 miles. On the trip
from San Francisco to New York more
than 15 hours were clipped irom tne
and received two more cuts, one in
the hand and one in the face.
Kale broke away, finally, and ran
into the house. He was not followed. ' because of rains and mud in Nevada.
Painfully, he phoned into town and the car's speed was reduced, although
summoned Officers Rudd and Booth, 57 minutes was taken off the time of
wto hurried to the Van Morel home the former east-to-west record run.
and took charge. Dr. Van Morel re- Three relays of drivers piloted the car
turned shortly and dressed Kale's east and seven guided it on the home-
h"rrs, ward trip.
Hughes Spends Sunday at
Home of Running Mate
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS, Sept. 24. Charles
K. Hughes today followed his usual
procedure of resting on Sunday. He
spent the -day at the homo of Charlej
As he looked about fori W. Fairbanks, his running mate, slept
the person who had summoned him, tonight on his private car in the rail
he was pounced on, and before he had road yards and will leave early tomor
time to move, the knife had ripped row to open his campaign in Ohio at
open his arm, hastily thrown 1111 to;l)avton.
protect his throat. He struggled awayl With Mrs. Hughes and Mr. Fair
banks, the nominee wont to church
this morning and took a motor rid
this afternoon. There was also an
informal reception late today at the
Fairbanks home, where Mr. Hughes '
met many of Mr Fairbanks' close
friends and neighbors. Mr. Hughes
expects to be accompanied through
Ohio by Governor Willis, Senator
Ilurding. Myron T. Herrick, James R.
Garfield and other party leaders.
