MARY ROBERTS RINEHARTS Latest
HARRISBURG WmmMTELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 222
TO SET WHEELS
MOVING UNDER
HARDSCRABBLE
Seitz Plans to Proceed to Take
Over Properties; Won't
Wait Appellants
MANY AGREED TO AWARD
Others Will Question Sums Al-
Lowed by Viewers; City's
Victory Applauded
Acting on the presumption that the
city's attitude in the "Hardscrabbie"
condemnation proceeding is legally
correct. City Solicitor D. S. Seitz de
clared to-day that he will at once
set in motion the machinery which
will lead to the actual taking over of
the property in question.
Whether or not counsel for the af
fected property owners will appeal to
the higher courts from Additional Law
Judge S. J. M. McCarrell's opinion on
the technical bases of the proceeding
has not been definitely determined by
all the litigants although it is ex
pected that some will carry the mat
ter up.
The majority of them it is believed
are content to accept the Dauphin
court's view of the matter so far as
the city's right to proceed as it has
is concerned, although there will, of
course, be some question raised as to
the amount of the award allowed.
That the question of appeal from
the viewers' award cannot materially
affect the case except as to the sum
that may be allowed by a jury, is the
concensus of opinion in legal circles.
Whether or not the litigants will care
to expend the time and money to carry
the case to the appellate courts on
the question of technicality is a mat
ter of conjecture.
Actual lia zing in Spring
Of course it has been generally un
derstood that me actual razing of
the buildings will not be attempted
until next Spring and the rendering
of a decision in the case Saturday may
not materially change this plan, it is
said Nevertheless City Solicitor D. S.
Seitz will go ahead with the arrang
ing of details which will lead to the
filing of the city's bonds.
More than half of the property
owners of "Hardscrabbie" according
to Mr. Seitz have agreed to accept the
sum allowed by the viewers and they
breathed a sigh of relief Saturday
when it was finally determined that
they could dispose of their properties.
Bonds will be filed in these cases and
the city can proceed when it wishes.
"So far as we are concerned," said
Mr. Seitz," we consider that the city
has won and we doubt very much if
an appeal to the higher courts would
make any difference. In fact I'm sure
that the city will be sustained even
' appeal is taken. So we are go
ing to proceed with the next steps
on that presumption."
Man Is Found Murdered
and Robbed in Field
Chester, Pa.. Sept. 25. An un
identified white man was found
murdered and robbed by the side of
the Philadelphia Rapid Transit short
line at Eddystone vesterdav. The
man had two holes in his forehead,
one in his jaw and a deep gash at
the base of the brain. The wounds
were made by a blunt instrument, ac
cording to Coroner Drews.
All of the man's pockets were turn
ed inside out and part of his clothing
removed, as if the murderers were
searching for a money belt. The body
was found near the Baldwin Locomo
tive Works by Frank Rocciel. Italian
boy, and William Cope, watchman at
• the Philadelphia Rapid Transit bridge
over Crum Creek. The victim appar
ently was a farmhand, about thirty
six years old, five feet six inches tall
and weighed about 170 pounds.
Coal Baron's Widow Loses
$10,000,000 by Marrying
Huntington, W. Va„ Sept. 25.
Mrs. John C. C. Mayo, widow of the
milliohaire coal operator, who died
in New York two years ago, yesterday
was married to Dr. Samuel B. Fetter,
of Portsmouth, Ohio, at the home of
Postmaster C. A. Preston in Ash
land, Ky., and because of a provision
in Mr. Mayo's will, she will lose half
his fortune, estimated at more than
$20,000,000.
The late J. C. C. Mayo made his
great fortune in Paintsville, Ky
where his widow still is in control of
the costly family residence. The
children secure $10,000,000 in addi
tion to the sum originally bequeathed
them.
THEWEATHF.P
llarrlsburic and viclnityi Fair
to-ulKht mill Tuesday, not muck
eliai>Ke in temperature.
Eastern I'ennsylviinla: Fair to
night nnd Tuesday, not much
chanter In temperature. lientie to
moderate west winds.
Hlver
The Susquehanna river and It*
branches will remain nearly sia
lon. A stage ot about 3.S feet
Ik indicated for Ilarrlsburir Tues
day inornlnK.
GENERA I, CONDITIONS
The disturbance (bat wan central
over Ontario Saturilu) moriilnit ban
|inedoll northeastward. A new din
tnrliHiice of considerable Intensity
from the Cnuiidtun Northwest. now
central over Manitoba, hus over
spreud the greater part of the Mis
souri valley. An area of moderate
ly high pressure covers the ((renter
pari of the eastern half of the
country with Its center over Fast
Tennessee. Another high areu Is
moving; In from the Tactile Ocean
over the Northwest Stales.
Hnin has fallen In the Inst 24
hours over the greater part of
Texas nnd there have been nboners
111 northeastern Florida und New
Jersey.
Tem|>ernturei S a. ni„ 04.
Sum. Rises, 5.55 a. m.| Sets.
5.51) p. in.
Moon i New .Moon, September i'J
a. m. *
River stage, 3.S feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 66.
I.owest temperature, 50.
Mean temperature, 58.
Normal temperature, 02.
'AItRJERS CENTS \ WEEK.
LE COPIES 2 CENTS.
PRETTY GIRLS AND GAY COSTUMES I
s; : j. ; •-" ,v .> . ' A u <.;• i* , r ■;■ -." . v *
"Prunella," or "Love In a Dutch Garden," is the name of the delightfully quaint play to be given to-morrow and Wednesday evenings In the gardens of
the Civic Club's official home at Front and North streets. The final dress re hearsal will be held at 7 o'clock this evening, with Miss Eleanor Etter in the
place of Miss Frances Bailey, who will be unable to take her part on account of illness. The lighting arrangements have been provided gratuitously by the
Harrisburg Light and Power Company and an artificial moon will furnish the light by which "Prunella," (Miss Eleanor Neal Clark,), escapes from her eagle
eyed aunts, Prim, Privacy and Prude, (Miss Virginia King, Miss Emily Bailey nnd Miss Martha Fleming). It has been requested by representatives of the
Civic Club that traffic in Front street, between North and Liberty, be closed between the hours of eight and eleven on the evenings of the play. Chief of
Police Wetzel will be asked to co-operate In accomplishing this object.
Left to right: Miss Helen Hammond, Miss Mary Mitchell. Miss Frances Bailey, Miss Sara Denehey, Miss Dora W. Coe, Miss Eleanor N. Clark, Miss Kath
arine Etter, (seated); Miss Katharine Hart, Miss Jean Chamberlain, Miss Julia Starnm, Miss Mary E. B. Sponsler.
FIRES CAUSED BY
ZEPPELIN RAID;
146 CASUALTIES
30 Killed, 116 Hurt, English Say;
Berlin Admits Loss of Two
Superaircraft
Berlin, Sept. 25 (via Londo ) .—Ex
tensive fires were observed to have
been caused by the Zeppelin bombard
ment of London and the English coun
ties on Saturday last, it was announced
to-day in the official report on the air
raid. Two of the.Zepplins were lost as
a result of the fire of antiaircraft guns
in London, the statement adds. It
reads:
"During the night of September
23-21 several naval airships dropped
bombs on London, on places of mili
tary Importance and on the midland
counties. Large fires were everywhere
[Continued on Page 7]
Mexican Representatives
Insist Their Army Able
to Protect Border Towns
El Paso, Tex., Sept. 25. The re
turn of the National Guard regiments
to their' State camps from El Paso
has been temporarily held up because
of recent developments in Mexico, ac
cording to reports in the local camps
last night.
Officers of the Massachusetts brig
ade admit that an order to turn in
surplus equipment has been counter
manded. Men of the First and Third
Pennsylvania infantry say also that
arrangements for their entrainment
on the arrival of the relieving North
Carolina troops have been canceled.
Bread Raised to 6 Cents
by Big N. Y. Baking Co.
New York, Sept. 25. —The largest
baking company in this city announced
to-day that the price of its 5-cent loaf
of bread will be advanced next Mon
day to 6 cents, but that this will be
accompanied by an addition to its
weight. A smaller loaf than hereto
fore will be sold at 5 cents. No change
in the price or size of the 10-cent loaf
is announced. Advanced prices for
flour and other ingredients is the rea
son assigned. This is the first increase
in the price of bread here and it is
expected that other bakers will follow.
Members of the National Bread
Committee, including delegates from
Chicago, Buffalo and other large cities,
are here to-day to attend a conference
with officers of the Housewives' league
to consider the advisability of a wheat
embargo.
Pittsburgh Bakers Change
Price and Size of Loaf
Pittsburgh. Sept. 25.—Declaring that
flour, sugar, milk and other bread
making materials have advanced in
price, as well as the price of paper in
which bread is wrapped, the most im
portant baking companies in the city
to-day announced higher prices as well
as changes in the size of the loaf.
Five-cent loaves in future are to be
unwrapped, but the 10-cent loaf,
which the companies recommend as
the best value, will be wrapped as in
the past.
SCHOOLS OPEN FRIDAY
At lmt Ten Thousand Will Bo
On Rolls
City schools will open for the 1916-
1917 sessions on Friday morning, when
the ban of the State Department of
Health is removed. At least 10,000
pupils are expected to enroll on the
first day. supplies and books will
be given out and sessions started at
once.
No arrangements have been made
for making up the time lost this
month because of the State depart
ment ord< r closing schools until the
29th. Alt beginners must be taken to
the buildings nearest their homes for
enrollment, according to Dr. F. E.
Downes, and parents will be required
to furnish vaccination certificates be
fore the children will be permitted to
attend.
More than a thousand pupils are
listed In the classes at Central high
school and about 550 at Technical
high school.
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 25, 1916
HUGHES OPENS ' DRIVER AND AUTO
OHIO CAMPAIGN OVER HIGH CLIFF
Spending Day at Dayton After
Capturing the Middle
West
Indianapolis, Ind., Sept. 25.
Charles E. Hughes left here early to
day to open his campaign in Ohio at
Dayton. His program calls for an
all-day stay at Dayton. Addresses
before the National League of Re
publican Clubs at the Soldiers' Home
and in the Auditorium at night with
an afternoon visit to the fair grounds
are the chief activities for to-day.
He will leave Dayton early Tues
day to continue his trip through Ohio.
He expects Governor Willis, Senator
Harding, Myron T. Herrick, James R.
Garfield and other party leaders to
accompany him.
Sunday Mr. Hughes was the guest
of his running mate, Charles W. Fair
banks who left to-day on a speaking
tour that will carry him to the Pacific
[Continued on 7]
BOMB DAMAGES MOVIE
Chicago, Sept. 25. The explosion
of a bomb badly damaged a large
State street moving picture theater
early to-day, broke a number of plate
glass windows and shook buildings for
several blocks around. The police
attribute the use of the bomb to the
rivalry between different motion pic
ture operators' unions.
100,000 MORE
VOTE ON STRIKE
Additional Unions Balloting on
Joining Proposed General
N. Y. Strike
New York, Sept. 25.—Labor organ
izations including about 100,000-work
ers meet to-day to vote on the ques
tion of joining in the proposed general
strike to take effect here Wednesday
morning. Ernst Bohm, secretary of
the conference of labor leaders direct
ing the movement, asserted that unions
representing 179,500 workers already
had voted to quit work.
In some instances it appeared that
the strike movement had been ap
proved by the executive committees or
executive councils of the governing
boards of trade unions, but had not
yet been passed upon by the local
unions. In other cases the unions
have empowered their officials to call
them out. One of the large unions
voted to quit work if the other trade
unions did the same.
Clasping Daughter, Man
Is Killed by Unknown Slayer
Philadelphia, Sept. 25. Myster
iously shot while he sat embracing
his five-year-old daughter on the steps
of his home last evening, at the
northwest corner of Hancock and
Shunk streets, William Righter. 47
years old, a paperhangor, died less
than an hour later in the Methodist
hospital.
The crime is one of the most puz
zling committed in South Philadel
phia in many years. The police and
detectives have been unable to find a
single clue to the murderer or dis
cover a motive for the shooting. A
number of persons were in the vicin
ity when Righter was wounded, but
no one has been found who saw the
man with the revolver used to kill
him. ,
f Righter's little daughter, Blanche,
the only eyewitness of the shooting,
was with her father when he was
wounded. She could give the detec
tives no information of value as to
her father's death. She said he had
put his arm around her and was about
to make a remark when he was shot.
TWO XF.W CASKS FOUND
AFTER QUARANTINE IS LIFTED
Lancaster, Pa., Sept. 25. Lifting
of the quarantine against infantile
paralysis on Saturday at rhidntght was
followed to-day by the discovery of
two new cases of the malady in this
city. For the present at least, the or
der lifting the quarantine will not be
I rescinded.
Machine Takes 75-Foot Drop to
Creek Bank; Occupant Es
capes Serious Injury
Carlisle, Pa., Sept. 25. — Ira
Kuntzelman, postmaster at Bain
bridge, Lancaster county, had an al
most miraculous escape rrom death at
Eppley's Rocks, along the Conodo
guinet creek Just west of Carlisle
when he backed his automobile over
the cliff and fell 75 feet, landing on
a pile of rocks.
Kuntzelman with W. A. Wetzel and
J. C. Matthews, both of Carlisle, was
on a fishing trip. They were prepar
ing to return home and the Bain
bridge man got into lys car, a light
touring "machine, to turn it around.
It started to run backwards down a
bank and before he could get the
brakes to hold it went backward over
the cliff carrying him with it. The
machine turned four complete revolu
tions and landed on a rock at the
creek side with the engine still run
ntng. Kuntzelman was thrown out on
the second turn and fell 40 feet. His
companions expected to find him dead,
but on going to the bottom found him
in a crouching position on a pile of
stones, badly shaken up and .bruised
but otherwise unhurt. He rallied
sufficiently to shut off the machine in
a few minutes.
HOTEL DIRECTORS
TAKE OVER PLOT
Formal Transfer of Opera
House Site Is Being Arranged
This Afternoon
The directors of the new hotel com
pany will meet late this afternoon to
complete arrangements for the ap
plication of a charter for the organiza
tion under the name of the Harris
burg Hotel Company. This will be
done at once and while the charter
is being advertised as required by law
the directors will take up the matter
of the selection ot an architect and
will consider the type of building best
suited to the needs of the city.
Jesse E. B. Cunningham, counsel
for the Chamber of Commerce, on
Saturday met in Philadelphia. Hamp
ton IJ. Carson, former Attorney Gen
eral of the State and administrator of
the Whiteman estate, took up the
option held by the hotel committee on
the Grand Opera House site, at Third
and Walnut streets, which the White
man Estate owns. The formal trans
fer of the property will be arranged
at the meeting of the directors to
day. •
The Rotary Club hotel committee
is hard at work and will complete Its
round-up by to-morrow afternoon. It
Is meeting with success. The commit
tee will meet to-morrow evening at
the offices of John S. Musser in the
rear of the Dauphin Electrical Sup
plies Company store at 434 Market
street, to make report and arrange to
continue the canvass.
The selection of a name is still in
doubt. Prof. John Phillips, the well
known musician, suggests the follow
ing:
"The new hotel is really going to
be a community affair. Therefore I
suggest the name Community Hotel cr
Community House. I think we ought
to leave political or Indian names out.
We are past that sort of thing, I
hope."
Pennsylvania Coming to
Relief of Paper Situation
Connellsville, Pa., Sept. 25.—Large
quantities of basswood are being cut
off the hills and mountains of Fayette
county and are being shipped to New
England paper mills. Twenty-five
years ago the basswood Industry occu
pied the time of a large number of
men, the wood being used at paper
mills near by. Eventually all the avail
able timber was used, but recent In
vestigation has shown trees large
.enough for pulp have again grown up.
HERE'S A CHANCE
j TO LEARN ABOUT
YOUR HOMETOWN
Harrisburg in Movies Show
City at Work and at Play in
Remarkable Way
Harrisburg in the movies will at
tract thousands to the Victoria the
ater this week. Those who had an
opportunity of a private view of the
wonderful film that has been prepared
by the Faliite F'ilm Company, of New
York City were more than delighted
with the exhibition. These views show
Harrisburg in every department of its
activities and it is difficult to imagine
anything finer than the educational
value of these moving pictures. Not
the least inspiring of the hundreds
[Continued on Page 7]
Mexican Developments
Delay Return of Penna.
Regiments From Border
New T/ondon, Conn., Sept. 25.—The
members of the Mexican-American
joint commission to-day began the
fourth week of their investigation o?
border conditions in their effort to
bring about an adjustment of inter
national questions. The Mexican rep
resentatives were still insistent that
their army is capable of maintaining
peace in northern Mexico and that re
lations between the two , countries
would be greatly improved by the
withdrawal of the American forces.
The Americans Insisted on further
study of Mexico's internal affairs, ad
hering" to their position that any agree
ment entered into must be so broad as
to make reasonably certain the safety
of American life and property through
out Mexico.
Advocate Elimination of
"Damn" From Prayer Book
Harsh and Has Bad Influence
New York, Sept. 25.—Elimination
of the word "damn" from the Episco
pal prayer book and the substitution
of the word "condemn" is recom
mended by the commission on revision
of the prayer book In a report to be
submitted to the triennial convention
of the Protestant Episcopal Church
at St. Louis next month.
It is proposed to change the dis
approved word in parts of the Scrip
ture when it is quoted in the liturgical
services. The commission argues that
"condemn" is a more correct trans
lation of the Greek word. The com
missioner!! suggest that "damn" is
harsh, interferes with the beauty of
the service and that its use in church
has a bad influence on the young.
Milk and Ice Cream
Supplies Are Showing
Steady Improvement
Because of the inquiries made at the
city health office about the purity of
the city milk supply, Dr. J. M. J.
Haunick, city health officer, to-day
.stated that the milk sold in the city
in up to the usual standard with but
few exceptions, according to recent
tests. i
The city ice cream supply shows a
groat improvement. The dealers have
gotten after their milk supplies, and
have displayed a keen desire to co
operate. Recent analysis of samples
indicate that no one manufacturer is
offending more than another and that
all have greatly Improved.
Three new cases of typhoid were
reported to-day.
Attempt Made on Life of
Candidate For Nicaragua
President; He Resigns
San Salvador, Republic of Salvador,
Sept. 25 Advices were received
here to-day from Nicaragua concern
ing another outbreak in connection
with the presidential campaign which
was marked recently by an attempt
on the life of Dr. Julian Irias, the
Liberal candidate for President. Lib
erals and Conservatives armed with
rifles, clashed at Maaaya.
SHEPHERDS OPEN
21ST NATIONAL
CONVENTION HERE
Represent 34,000 Members of|
Order in North
America
300 DELEGATES PRESENT
Nominate Officers Late Tqday;
Had Planned to Meet in
Lancaster
Delegates representing more than
3 4,000 members of the Order of Shep
herds of Bethlehem of North Amer
ica, opened their twenty-first annual
national convention this morning in
the Chestnut Street Auditorium.
Almost 300 representatives with the
power to vote on business items were
present this morning, and at least 600
are expected to be present at sessions
to-morrow. Eleven States are rep
resented by the delegates. Charles E.
Pass made the address of welcome to
the many visitors, after which the
credentials of the delegates were ex
amined. Nominations of officers and
a place for the sessions next year were
made during the afternoon session,
and will be decided by vote just before
the close of the convention.
The organization is a beneficial
body with social features included.
Death claims were included in the
business of the afternoon and it is
believed by the officers that the con
vention will close to-morrow. Ar
rangements had been made to have
the delegates meet in Lancaster, but
owing to the fair and another conven
tion in that city, it was impossible to
obtain accommodations and the place
was changed to 'Harrisburg.
Officers of the order include:
Joseph Tracey, of Philadelphia,
supreme commander; Peter McNer
ney, New Haven, Conn., supreme vice
commander; William J. Miller, Phila
delphia, supreme treasurer; Mrs. Eva
A. Wyckoff Hall, Camden, supreme
scribe; Mrs. Francis L. McCormlck,
Philadelphia, supreme past com
mander.
There are three lodges of the order
in this city, with more than 300 mem
bers. Mrs. Elizabeth Danner, Mrs.
Ida B. Solomon, and Miss Sadie Tt.
Rupp, of Lodge No. 43, completed ar
rangements for the convention.
, BITTERLY ASSAILS CAR SHORTAGE
Baltimore, Sept 25.—Before the 205 th annual convention
of the Grain Dealers' National Association, to-day, Lee G. !
Metcalf, president assailed the railroads in strong terms fori
'the transportation facilities afforded the shippers during the 1
last year, asserting that they have been "unusually inferior, in- 1
adequate and extremely unsatisfactory." President
iwill speak later in the afternoon. <
BABY BOY HAS PARALYSIS
* <
f Harrisburg. Albert Early aged five, 232 Hummel®
streets, was reported to-day as the latest infantile paralysis
victim. Dr. L. W. Frazier notified Health Officer Dr. J. M. J.
Raunick. I
■ EIGHT IN AUTO WHEN IT OVERTURNS
Harrisburg. Jack Gold, manager of the Family Theater,!
with seven other young men, narrowly escaped injury when g
(the auto in which they we,re riding, turned over on its side at <
Riverside A tire blow-out caused the accident.
TROOPER KILLS CARRANZA SERGEANT
El Paso, Tex., Sept. 25.—A Carranza sergeant of the Ell
'Valle, Chihuahua garrison, was shot and killed Friday night by'
an American trooper of the Fifth Cavalry who is being held
prisoner, according to a report brought to Columbus, N. M. tJ
ito-day from field headquarters. The Carranza commander at
El Valle refused to surrender the prisoner after General J. J.
sent a messenger requesting release. The American
is said to be held in communicado on a charge of murder
GOVERNOR HOLDS CONFERENCE ,
Governor Brumbaugh returned to the city to-day from
•Philadelphia and did not go to the State Capitol. He held a
conference with a number of political friends, including State
Committeeman H. A. Davis, of Altoona. '
, FINE MINISTER FOR PENSION FRAUD
Philadelphia, Sept. 25.—The Rev. James A. Heitler, treas
urer and general manager of the United Zion Home at Lititz.l
Pa., charged with pension fraud, to-day pleaded guilty in the
'United States District Court here and was fined SSOO. It was
charged that he attempted to collect money from the govern-j
ment to cover funeral expenses of war veterans that had already
ibeen paid either by county commissioners or others.
FORMAL ORDERS ISSUED
1 The Public Service Commission Chairman Ainey to-day 1
issued the formal orders of the commission for establishment
of the new system of transfers for the Valley Railways Com-i
ipany at Wormleysburg between the northern line of West Fair
view public square, Camp Hill and New Cumberland as arrang
ed last week at the hearing, and also for the improvement of
Berks and Dauphin turnpike section lying between Pal-'
myra and Myerstown. The plans and specifications are to be
submitted to the commission for approval.
PENROSE TO BE HERE l
* United States Senator Boies Penrose will be here to-night.
He is on his way to Pittsburgh to attend the reception to be
given to Candidate Charles E. Hughes on Wednesday.
t ENDORSE ENTIRE REPUBLICAN TICKET '
Harrisburg. At a meeting of the Inter-Denominational
Ministerial Association of Harrisburg and vicinity, the Rcpub
, lican National, State, County and City ticket was given unani- 1
•mous endorsement. The resolution was presented by the Rev.
Dr. E. Luther Cunningham and seconded by the Rev. Dr. W.
H. Gaines and Dr. A. J. Green. The resolution in brief is :i
l"It is the sense of this association that for the good of the
j country and the colored race, the entire Republican ticket
| should be elected.'
: MARRIAGE LICENSES
John Temple King and I.llllan Anne Bnnken, city. I
' Walter Scott Harper and Ruth Klimaheth Mfthtner, city.
Frank Aifintu* Pendencant and Nora Thereaa Reagan' cltr.
12 PAGES CITY EDmON
RUMANIANS ARE
DEADLOCKED WITH
VON MACKENSEN
Neither Side Able to Make]
Progress Along Front From
Danube to Black Sea
GAIN IN TRANSYLVANIA'
In Attack on Hermannstadt
Prisoners Arc Taken; Rain
Delays Operations
Latest reports regarding the Im
portant campaign in the Rumanian
province of Dobridja indicate a les
sening in the intensity of the struggle
between the invading armies of the
central powers and the Russians and
Rumanians facing them.
Field Marshal Von Mackensen'a
initial attempt to break the allied
lines formed to defend the Constanza-
Tchernaveda Railroad evidently have
failed, the opposing forces apparently
are now virtually deadlocked along
(he front from the Danube to the
Black sea. The current s*aieiuent
from Bucharest announces only
artillery duels along the Danube. It
declares, however, that the Rumanians
have made some progress on their left
flank, which rests on the seacoast.
Rumanians Take 1,000 l'risoncr
In their invasion of Transylvania
the Rumanians report success in an
attack at Hermannstadt. where 300
men and five machine guns were cap
tured. Nearly 7,000 prisoners have
been taken by the Rumanians so far
in their Transylvania campaign.
To-day's official statement from
[Continued on Page 10]
Discarded Suitor Places
Oily Waste to Bar Escape
Pittsburgh, Sept. 25. Six persons
were burned, one seriously, in an in
cendiary fire which destroyed the
home of John Pas, in Leet township,
near Sewickley, and county detectives
are searching for a suitor of Miss
Adrianna Pas, who it is thought
sought vengeance as the result oC
having been ordered to cease his at
tentions to the girl.
Harry Pas, aged 23, is in a serious
condition as the result of the fire, and
John Pas, his wife, Mary, two chil
dren. Mary and Harry, and Mrs.
Adrianna Pas, aged 73, mother of Pas,
were burned when they were forced
to flee from the house byway of a.
flaming stairway.
