Second gt
Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
ASHLAND. OREGON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1916
VOL. XLI
NUMBER 30
C7 Second
Ashland
Tidings
Wonderful Fire
Loss Reduction
Announcement has been made by
State Forester Elliott that the fire ' covering an area of approrlmately
loss on lands supervised hy the state ' C.000 acres Hob between the original
forestry department has so far this 1 north boundary line of the Ashland
year been less than $500. Last year Talent Irrigation district and west of
the loss was approximately $29,000. ; the Rogue River Canal Company's
The state forester lias called in all , Phoenix segment of the letter's sys-
forest patrolmen save those in Jack -
son and Josephine counties, where j
there is much underbrush. In the
state there are 22,000,000 acres of 'canal line. The only relief for those
timber and brush land, and of this; la the Intervening strip is to be an-j
amount 10 000,000 acres Is timber j nexed to the Ashland-Talcnt district.
land owned by the government, 10,-!
000,000 acres Is timber land privately i number or farmers having signed up
owned, and the remainder brush ! to make It legally possible. Robert
lan,lg' j Brevard of Medford Is completing
A heavy pall of smoke has hung j tbat feature of the work.
over Jackson county for the past two'
weeks due to burning of brush and', .
big fires over in California. The
campaign oi me iuikbi uitioi imciii iv .
prevent forest fires is beginning to i
have Its effects and campers gener-!
ally observe much more care.
Many Real Estate
'T,ri5?1?fST'! 171 DIV
i laUlUO iU ajf
; on Union creek. Van Auken is a
Just take a look at the following farmer of that district and was act
lf you do not believe Ashland real ing as a guide for the hunting party,
estate Is moving. This Is the real and was slightly in advance of the
estate transfer report of a single day ; crowd, heating the brush, when he
taken from the court house records felt the twlngs of the bullet in his
at Jacksonville and compiled by the 1 cheek. The bullet passed through
Jackson County Abstract Company, his cheek but did not hit a bone, to
This day is away above the average, , which fact Van AuVen probably owes
of course, but there is a steady j his life, as the soft nose bullet would
stream of deals being transacted in ! no doubt have blown his head off
Ashland which speak eloquently of had it hit a hard substance. The In
the real estate awakening which Is jured man was brought to Medford,
going on here: j where he Is at the Sacred Heart hos-
Michael Powell to D. S. Powell et pital. Klrkendahl Is said to be suf
ux., land in Ashland, $100. jfering from a nervous shock and has
John S. Herrln to F. W. Herrln, j returned home.
timber on land in sec. 10, 38, l1
E., $1.
Miriam D. Way to Annie C. Rob-
ertson, lot G, Ashland H. Assn. tract, j
$1,300.
George W. Dodaon et ux. to J. A.
Orchard et ux., laud In 39, I E.,
$600.
Fermin Zana et ux., to Frank Fe
hige et ux.. lots S and 9. block I).
Railroad addition, Ashland, $10,000.
John S. Herrin to Ilia G. Herrln,
lot 9, block 14, and part of lot 10,
block 14, Ilelman addition to Ash
land, $1.
H. O. Triplett et ux. to T. S. Mc
Daniel, lots 30, 31 and 32, block B,
Meikle and Payne addition, Ashland,
$10.
Tom Bushong to Ellen M. Carlock,
land in Ashland, $10.
Big
AHrarHnnc
M II. laM UU KjM.J ftftkS
At" JfrPltft pojl" possibility of a big storage reservoir
" fta j at Comparat:vely small cost. Later
' upon instruction of the city council
Among the big attractions at the , Mr. Walker spent two or three days
state fair which will be held at Salem j surveying the site, his finding being
September 25 to 30 will be "The j the basis for the report made Tues
Sagebrush Symphony" juveuile or-, day. It was not the intention of the
chestra, composed of 25 boys and ; council to plan any such construction
girls of Harney county, Oregon, who at present, but that some day the res
have been under special instructions ervolr will he needed is conceded,
for the past four years and have de- j and Mr. Walker's report will be filed
veloped marvelous ability in harmony i so that when the need of more stor
and execution of wind ad stringed in- j age becomes imperative it ' can he
struments. They are coming to the ' used as most valuable data. A few
state fair as a special attraction of extracts from the report are as fol
educational and entertaining merit! lows:
and one well worth travelling many i "At a point about a mile above the
miles to see and hear. Their reper- forks of the creek the hanks slope so
toire Includes both popular and clas- as to allow a favorable cross-section
tdcal compositions, and musical crit-! for a dam, and then Immediately
ics who have heard them in concert ' come away from the creek bed, nl-
proncjunce them little short of the :
marveious.
The "Spirit of '75" as well as that
of the early '60s will be vividly and
strikingly portrayed and recalled by
the stirring patriotic selections as
rendered by the Veterans' Fife and j
Drum Corps, which will be one of j
the special features of entertainment
at the state fair. This corps is com
posed of veterans of the Civil War,
that once valiant army whose ranks
are rapidly depleting. Each Individ-1 water would lie at least fifty feet
ual of the organization is an artist j deep, and I estimate the storage ca
with the instrument upon which he pacity of the reservoir at 25,000,000
performs, and the character of music ,
which they will render, together with
the spirit in which it is rendered, is
of a nature to stir the blood and
patriotic impulses of all loyal Ameri
can citizens.
The night horse show, a special
feature of rare beauty in blue-blooded
horse flesh, equipment and grace
of carriage in fancy and expert riding
and driving, and the dally speed pro
gram, $16,000 In purses with the best
list of entries ever assembled on
Lone Oak track, will be two of the
his attractions to be Btaged.
Annex 6,000 Acres
To This District
A strip of orchard and farm land
tern. The canal company's proposed I
high-line ditch, covering an area or ,
2S.00O acres, will follow the Phoenix
That Is being done now, a sufficient
First Hunting
. ' J L ' f L
ACCIGeUt W l0Unty
The first hunting accident of the
season in Jackson county occurred ,
j last Wednesday when Attorney Klr
j kendahl of Klamath Falls shot
Geo,'Ee Van Auken- mistaking him
for a ()per The accl(,pnt happened
n
f 1116 UcIHISILC Ul
1.1 J t
ASulaUu CanVOn
That there is a site available in
Ashland canyon for a reservoir which
could be built for $75 000, which
would have a storage capacity of 25,
otiO.OOO gallons of water and which
would run the electric plant at full
capacity regf.rdless of drouth or cold
all year around, and would furnish
plenty of water for a population dou
ble or treble the present population
of Ashland, is the good news con
tained in a report made to the city
council Tuesday night by City En
gineer Walker. Some time ago, sev
eral months in fact, Mr. Walker hap
pened upon the site while on a ram
ble up the left fork of Ashland creek
'and was immediately struck with the
lowing an exceptional storage reser-
voir site for Vshland Creek canyon.
Mv onrvov flVinn'a fhnt xvith n flnm
', . ., i,
eighty feet in height above the creek
bed, the top length of dam being
250 feet, a reservoir will he formed
above It that will have a maximum
width of about 300 feet and a length
of 600 feet."
Regarding the capacity of such
reservoir Mr. Walker says:
I r..nn n l..t.nA nf l,(a ctta tlio
i wci a lai fie iai i vi kiua mm iv
gallons. This is about twenty-five
times the capacity of the city's lower
reservoir and probably fifty times the
capacity of the upper reservoirs built
for the electric plant."
As to dam construction Mr. Walker
says.
"The mist economical dam would
he one of eartn and loose rock, with
a core wall probably of concrete.
Such a dam would cost about $75,
000. If the city had this dam and
reservoir it would enable us to run
our electric plant to its fullest capac
ity at any and all times of the year,
Enthusiastic Crowd Hears Hughes
Eulogized at Big Rally Friday
Ashland now has a Hughes Alli
ance branch with three hundred
members. These were all signed up
in a hurried canvass of parts of the
town previous to the Hughes meet
ing Friday night, which was attend
ed by about six hundred enthusiastic
supporters of Hughes. City Chair-
, man T. II. Simpson has the llst-of'tee to nominate officers for the
Hughes Alliance members, and those
who wish to join should see him.
Owing to the lateness of the hour no
attempt was made to sign members
following the Friday meeting.
Mr. Simpson opened the Friday
meeting by Introducing Mrs. Ed Han-
j ley of Medford, who made a brilliant
i address and presided over the meet-
' ing. After paying a beautiful com -
pliment to Ashland Mrs. Hanley
launched Into a scathing denuncia -
tion of the "scurillous attack" made
upon the Hughes Women's Special
which Is coming west in October, by
the editor of the Mall Tribune at
Modfor(I Mrs HanIey mentioned
the work which several of the worn- A mention of Theodore Roosevelt
en who are coming on the special brought the loudest burst of ap
have accomplished and denounced phuise of the evening,
the lack of chivalry and apparent I Mr. Tooze quoted the registration
lack of investigation which had led in this county to show that the pro
to the attack made in the Medford I grcssives had reunited with the old
paper. She then launched into a re- j party and stated that all over the
view of the things "which Wilson j state the registrations were the
has not done," laying special empha- same.
sis upon his attitude toward women's j The tariff and the Mexican situa
suffrage. "When a woman does a tion came In for liberal discussion,
thing she does it and tells her hus-1 Colonel Washburn of Table Rock,
band afterward" was a statement i introduced as "the illimitable orator
which brought down the house. The
lack of protection which was evident
during the past two years received a
vivid delineation from Mrs. Hanley,
part of her remarks being as fol-
lows: He told us if we did not want
to get hurt, to stay at home. They
did stay at home down along the
border, and when trouble came they
jwere told to move bads farther from
j the border." Mrs. Hanley had an
' everread- flow ot witticisms and
! oris'nalitie8. ne which especially
i ticketed the fancy of the crowd bd
I Ing: "Kr. Edison's support of Mr.
Wilson was to be expected. We all
know that Mr. Edison is an elec
trician and nitnrally is Interested in
anything which switches on and off."
She closed her talk with an encom-
ium to the republican party, who
"would start the country growing
again where it left off four years
ago." Mrs. Hanley impressed the
fact upon her hearers that the worn-
en were a factor who are to take a
great part in the political affairs of
the future, and a factor who are not
swayed by Immaterial things hut go
straight to the heart of the truth
with unerring accuracy.
A beautifully rendered duet by
Misses Anderson and McCormick was
the next number on the program and
was followed by an original recita
tion by Dick Posey which brought a
Predicts Great
Resort at Lake
Central Point Herald. W. A. Cow
ley and family and J. R. Hamilton
motored to the Lake of the Woods
last Sunday. They report the roads
in good condition, and the lake Itself
is a most charming body of water.
The lake is about three miles long
and about a mile wide, and lies right
at the foot of Mount Pitt, on the
east side of the mountain. The
camping grounds that skirt the lake
are about the best and most pictur
esque of any in the state. Forests
of beautiful fir and sugar pine trees
, ,
surround the lake, and that they
contain some real game is evidenced
by the fact that one of the families
in camp there shot a large bear last
week. Rainbow trout of good size
abound in the lake, and now that a Fancy fall pears are commanding
good automobile road has been open- good prices In the eastern auction
ed up, Mr. Cowley predicts that this markets, in spite of the slump In
beauty spot will soon become a fani- Hartlett prices. The fancy half-box-ous
summer resort for southern Ore- cs are finding the readiest sale. To
gon. j day's car of Bosc half-boxes were
Isold in New York at $2.15.
Council will meet In adjourned
session tomorrow evening.
regardless of drouth or cold. It
would furnlt.h 100 gallons per day
..... . ...
to an additional population of 10,000
people for four weeks, this from the
storage only. This would take us
over any period of drouth and would
doubtless enable us to care for a
population double or treble what we
now have."
The council ordered the report
filed for future reference.
storm of applause.
Karl P.asor next pleased the audi
ence with a solo and responded with
an encore.
At this point the chairman ap
pointed Mesdaines F. D. Wagner, (!.
S. Hurler, C. H. Lnmkin and O. Win
ter and Mr. Clark Hush as a commit-
Unfiles Alliance branch. '
Walter L. Tooze, Sr., state organ -
Izer for the Hughes Alliance, spoke
j next at some length. lie stated that
It had been ten years since he had
last visited the city and that the
j changes accomplished had amazed
him. "Your park and mineral wa-
ters deserve the attention of the en-
I tire country. There Is no laeatlmi in
the entire state the equal of Medford
1 and Ashland."
lie then launched Into a discussion
of the Wilson administration, biing-
i Ing out defects point by point and
! explaining in what way the renubli-
I cans would overcome these defects.
j of Lincoln day banquets," gave a
spicy speech full of witty side re
marks and catchy phrasing. "Charles
Evan Hughes, the man without a
flaw in his character or record, IS
carat pure, extra perfect, sound,
smooth, without a blemish and fully
' matured." "Woodrow Wilson is
minority president and we propose
to kee him In the minority."
I He outlined the record which
Hughes has made In the past and
prophesied what Hughes will do if
elected.
,The nominating committee then
advanced the list of officers for the
branch of the alliance, the nominees
receiving the unanimous endorse-'
ment of the gathering. All of the i
j Ashland officers are women, Mrs. D.
1 Perozzi being president, Mrs. E. B.
1 Briggs vice-president. Mrs. Emil I'eil
secretary and Mrs. A. II. Praclit
: treasurer.
i Mrs. Hanley closed the meeting
with a few words and the expression
of the intention of the women of the
i valley "to show those eastern women
on the Hughes Special what a bunch
I of western women can do."
The Chautauqua building was dec
orated with the national colors and
a huge picture of Charles Evan
Hughes. The Ashland band ren
dered several selections prior to and
at the beginning of the program.
I
Pear Shipments
Double Last Year's
More than double the amount of
pears sent out from the Rogue River
valley last year have already been
shipped to date this season, and late
pears still to come. Only four cars
of apples have as yet been shipped,
and there is the prospect of excep
tionally heavy shipments of that
fruit to come throughout the remain
der of the shipping season. Last
year 219 cars of pears were shipped,
while already 470 cars have been
Hilled out this year.
The shipments for the year in cars
are as follows: Medford, 380 pears,
4 apples; Central Point, 45 pears;
Talent, 15 pears; Phoenix, 7 pears;
Gold Hill, 8 pears; Grants Pass, 15
pears.
Social Service League.
The regular lionthly meeting of
the Men's Social Service League will
l.a 1.a1 n. Tttajilnv ovpnlnp Spn-
. " " . ' ,. '
teraber 26, at the Methodist church,
in , ' . ,.
gram has been prepared and all men
are invited to attend.
F. D. Swingle, who has recently
returned home from eastern Oregon,
has been suffering with rheumatism
for some days pat.
Oakland Boys' Band
In Two Concerts
The Oakland Hoys' Club band
which appeared In this city two ! a parly of twelve Ashland Boy Scoufs
months ago Is here again on the re-1 left this city bright and eurly Satur
turn trip and will play two concerts day morning, bound on a two days'
In I.itbla park, one tonight and one 'out ing to the' agate beds and Roguo
Tuesday night. The boys have been j river. The party traveled In two
north as far as Vancouver, Wash., j rigs and three bicycles. Eagle Point
but on account of the rains were j was the first objective point, and
forced to abandon the Idea of an ex -
tension of the trip farther north
which was planned. They will camp
1 In Chautautiua park as they did on
the occasion of their previous visit, found, ( amp was pitched Saturday
The former concert given by the night on the river and a big camp
Oakland boys attracted one of the j fire was a feature of the evening. A
biggest crowds of the year and the, real old fashioned snipe hunt with
music offered was greatly enjoyed, three of the hoys holding the sack
A dance will be given following the
Tuesday concert.
Ticket Agents
See Lithia Park
A large party of railroad officials,
ticket agents, etc., who are "seeing
America first" were in Ashland yes
terday and were taken over Lithia
park, the drives and, the city by
Agent (1. N. Kramer. The whole
party marvelled and carried away
Impressions which are bound to be
redundant in recommendations of a ' today from State Insurance Coninils
visit to Ashland when selling future sloner Harvey Wells of Salem:
tickets. Among the party were: R.j "The anniversary of the Chicago
II. Brooks, assistant city ticket agent ; conflagration is October 9, and nearly
at San Antonio, Texas; C. E. Lewis every state In the I'nion will observe
of Houston, Texas; W. 11. Jenkins of tills as "Fire Prevention Day." The
the Portland headquarters; Charles J Insurance Department of Oregon
A. Chalifour of New Orleans; R. J. j wishes to urge the observance of this
Smith, district freight and passenger I day and earnestly requests the mu
agent for the S. P. at Sacramento; nicipal officers to call the attention
Bert Anderson of Dallas. Texas, and of the citizens of their community to
J. F. Darnell of Beaumont, Texas. the need of fire prevention.
- "Fire prevention means good
q j h . mtmm
e 1 1 arm uOan illGeu at
. iments; the proper disposal of rub-
CitV Hall SatUrday,,,lHli; repairing defective flues and
j chimneys; repairing gas fixtures and
'electric light cords; making heating
The committee of the Fa-m Loan am, Bt()V(ls 8afo; am, nroi)er
Association held a very enthusiastic Kl((1.aKe Qf gasoline. Try fire preven
meeting at the city library, Medford, U(n once am you wi f,m ,t g t(
last Saturday and a good attendance i0-no, i , - ,i,0 i
of fanners was present. All phases
of tli.' loan law wre explaimd by
the chairman and secretary and oth
ers present. .1. F. Kocho of Ashland
made a strong appeal to educate the
farmers on this subject, which re
ceived hearty applause anil resulted
in a meeting to lie held at Ashland
next Saturday, September 30, at
2:30 .p. in. at the city hall. Able
speakers will be on lianiT. fonnnit-
i ,ll..,l IV.,. (I,.i .nr.
ieeme.1 ,.,,....r.. ....
rerent districts to soncii sigm-is iui
loans and to explain the act to those
Interested. J. F. Roclio was appoint
ed for Ashland and F. P. Snyder for
the Belleview district. The question
was brought up in regard to whether
loans could be made on property in
a bonded district. While this has
not definitely been settled, it may
prove a barrier as the government
will only loan on property than can
show a clear title, or In order to per-
feet a clear title at a low rate and
for a long term. i night, nttracted the largest crowd oC
In order to form a preliminary es-1 the past month and pleased them
tlmate of the amount ot money ! Immensely, The band will give an
whlch will be wanted by the farmers j other concert, weather permitting, on
of this district, all those who might Wednesday evening of next week,
desire to negotiate loans are request-j The regular series of concerts which
ed to see Mr. Rocho or Mr. Snyder, were contracted for are now finished
who are keeping lists of names of and the band boys are giving this
those who are interested in forming 1 extra concert to show their apprecia
a farm loan association.
Gotch Suffered
Broken Limb
nnd the business men who have do
Frank Gotch, the noted wrestler, i nnU,(, sma m()llUfly am0llllU wi,c,
champion of the world and perhaps ; llUu(,(.tlpr n)11(Io ,ip the mim wllici,
the only champion who retired with j enaMe(i the ,iand to do this are to be
his laurels undisturbed, will not be ! comInPll(lo(, ns wen, Tne immi .
seen In Medford with the Sells-Floto ' , to ,,,, a mo.llls of keeping IU-
show if a news dispatch from Chicago n(,tor r.lrl LoveIaml hpre thig wiu
is to be believed. According to the tn. at t,)e h()ad of the nie1.g aml
dispatch, Gotch passed through Chi- j )oyi), ,iamll) A mov.meut to have
cago bound for his home in Hum-the ,,alld cnre(, for ,,y a gma ppr
bolt, Iowa, with a broken leg which I couta(;e of the tax Ievy la advocated
he suffered at Kenosha, In plaster. ,)y the ,mnd men on the grounds that
Jess Willard, however, is still with;the entIre c,ty ,ngtea(, of few men
the circus and will be seen in Med-1 Bhoul(, ,)ear the bunlcn sman
ford unless he brenks something be
tween Portland and the Rogue River
valley.
Mr. and Mrs. Mark True go this
week to Portland for a short visit
and will return to Salem In order to
attend the state fair before returning
home.
The Lilbla it the place to eat.
36-2t ,
Boy Scouts Go
Agate Hunting
Led by Scoutmaster George Holly,
1 several hours were spent hunting
I agates near there and on the desert
between that place and the river. A
number of nice specimens were
was also a feature. The return was
made Sunday. Those who made tho
trip were George Holly, Marshall
Barber. Ralph Divet, Earnest Ful
gham, Otis Johnson, Hoy Clary, Les
lie llerr, Edwin Mowat, William
Allen, Bruce Rathburu. Lawrenca
I Porter, John Saunders and Gordou
Dldra.
October 9th Fire
Prevention Day
The following letter was received
j IIUUSflMM'lllIlK, lilt? Clt'illllUg Ulll UL L-
I storerooms, closets and bnse-
Ing up of places will mean sanitation
as well as lire prevention.
"And 1 appeal to every school dis
trict to hold appropriate exercises!
and fire drills. If any schools ares
interested probably this department
can offer suggestions for the school
program.
i "I trust that the insurance agents
will co operate with the lire depart
ments and officers of the different
lll1II1L.ipit(.H ) rder that the many
towns in this state may properly ob
serve this day.
"HARVEY WELLS,
, "Insurance Commissioner."
Band Makes Hit in
Last of Series
The last of the regular series of
baud concerts, Indd last Thursday
tion of the support given them this
summer. The Ashland band has giv
en Ashland and Ashland's guests n
great deal of fine music this sum
mer. The men of the band have giv
en unstlntiiigly of their time for two
concerts and two rehearsals a week.
though it is, of supporting a band.
Farmers, Attention
Mass meeting of those interested
In the farm loans will be held at the
city hall, Ashland, September 30,
2:30 p. m. Able speakers will be
on hand. All are welcome.
Don't forget the plac when yoti
want something good to eat the
Llthla Bakery and Retsaurant. 36-2t
I
