8ARRE DAILY TIMES
TH
PRICE, ONE CENT.
1JAKKE, VERMONT, MONDAY. SKFTEMHKlt 23.
1910.
VOL. XX NO. 1G3.
IN DEADLOCK
FROM DANUBE
TO BLACK SEA
Field Marshal Von Macken
sen Failed in Attempts to
. Break Through Russian
and Rumanian Lines De
fending the Constanza
Railroad
LESS INTENSITY
IN THE OPERATIONS
Rumania Reports Success in
Transylvania and the Cap
ture of 7,000 Prisoners
Since the Operations Were
StartedFall Rains Ham
per Warfare
The latest reports regarding the im
portant campaign in the Rumanian prov
ince of Dobrudja indicate a lessening in
the intensity of the struggle between the
invading armies of the central powers
and the Russians and the Rumanians fac
ing them. Field Marshal Von Macken
sen's attempt to break the allies' lines
formed to defend the Constanza railroad
evidently having failed, the opposing
forces now appear deadlocked along the
front from the I)aniile to the Hlack sea.
The current statement from Bucharest
announces only artillery duels, along the
Danube. It declares, however, that the
Rumanians have made some progress on
their left flank resting on the seacoast.
In the invasion of Transylvania the
Rumians report success in an attack at
Hermannstadt. Nearly 7.000 prisoner
have been taken by the Rumanians so
far in the Transylvania campaign.
To-day's official statement from l'etro
grad says there are events of importance
along the Russian or Caucasus fronts,
which is taken to indicate that bad
weather is hampering the operations. Of
ficial reports and private despatches in
dicate that fall rains are interfering with
the progress of hostilities on virtually
all the battle fronts.
FRENCH ATTACKED
WORKS AT ESSEN
Berlin Official Report Says That No Dam
' age Was Done When Bombs
Were Dropped.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 25. No fires
were caused at Ksscn by the hostile air
raid yesterday and most of the tombs
dropped inflicted no damage, according to
an official report to-day.
The. French war office last night an
nounced that the airmen dropped- 12
bombs on Essen, where the Krupp plant
is located, and returned safely after a
flight of 500 miles.
CAPTURED A HILL.
Russians Took Up Offensive on Macedo
nian Front.
Paris, via London, Sept. 2.1. Russian
troops on the western end of the Mace
donian front took the offensive last
night. The war office announced to-day
that they captured hill 016, west of Fio
rina, which had been fortified strongly.
The French artillery fire caused an out
break of flames iii Doiran and French
troops made progress on their left wing.
On the Broda river Serbian troops
reached the frontier and the French in
fantry made a slight advance north of
Fiorina.
BRITISH CAPTURE TOWN.
Take Jenmita From Bulgarians on the
Struma.
London, Sept. 25. British troops fight
ing along the Struma, in the Balkan
campaign-have crossed the. river at three
points and taken the town of Jenmita
from the Bulgarians, while the Serbs
have made additional progress northwest'
of Kamaikcalan and the French to the
northwest of Fiorina.
NEARLY HIT BY BOMB.
Dutch Mail Steamer Had Exciting Ex
perience. London. Sept. 2.1 The Dutch mail
steamer Prins Hendrik. seized by Ger
man naval forces while bound from
Flushing for Londni and taken into
Zeebrugge, was in danger when, as the
steamer was being escorted toward that
port for the second time an allied aero
plane dropped a bomb, intended for a
convoying German destroyer, within 20
feet of the vessel, wounding one Dutch
passenger and two sailors. The story
was told by passengers of the Prins
Hendrik, who landed here yesterday.
BREAD FAMINE IN AUSTRIA,
Hotel Guests are Ordered to Bring Their
Own.
Zurich, Switzerland, via London. Sept.
23. Press dispatches from Vienna say
there has been a bread famine there
for several days, owing to transportation
difficulties. An official decree ha been
published forbidding hotels and restau
rants of Vienna and lower Austria to
supply bread to guesU, who must bring
their own. Railway service has been
preatly hampered since the entry of Ru
mania into the war.
GERMANS ATTACK AT VESDUN.
Attempt Near Yaax-Chapitre Wood
Failed, Says Paris.
Tar s, via London, Sept. 25. Germ
troop made an attack on the Verdun
front last night .iear the aux Chapitre
wood. Th war office report says the
attack failed.
DOZENS WITNESSED TRAGEDY
As Trin Struck Automobile, Three of
Whose Occupant Were Killed.
Knllel.l, Me., Sept. 2.1. Three persons
were killed and two other injured, one
probably fatally, when an automobile
was struck bv a freight train a short
distance south of the Enfield station on
the Maine Central railroad late yester
Utv. Tho dead are Charles II. Randall
and his daughter. Iuri-. of Milo, and
Mrs. Abram Dougherty of Medford Cen
ter. Mr. Randall received severe inter
nal injuries and is not expected to recov
er. Mr. Dougherty sustained a broken
arm and other injuries.
The automobile, party was composed
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles II. Randall of
Milo, their daughter, Doris, ami their
guest, Mr. snd Mrs. A. G. Dougherty of
Medford Center, and they were returning
to Milo from Coldstream pond. A they
approached the railroad crossing at En
field station, a long last block shed ob
structed their view of the track, and alo
prevented the engineer of the freight
train, 3.11, Bangor to Vanceboro, from
seeing them until too lute to avert the
collision.
The crossing is in full view of the ho
tel, from the windows of which dozens of
people witnessed the tragedy.
The auto was hurled fully .10 feet onto
an embankment. Miss Randall's body
was carried 12.1 feet up the track. Her
skull was crushed, both jaws, smashed
and she was otherwise mutilated. Mr.
Randall and Mrs. Dougherty were found
in the ditch near their car. Mr. Ran
dall's skull was fractured, right leg brok
en and both jaws smashed. Mrs. Dough
erty's head was crushed, the right arm
severed from the body and left arm near
ly so, and her chest was crushed in.
Mr. Dougherty nml -Mrs. iwnuau were
rushed in a special train- to Bangor,
where at the hospital it was found that
Mrs. Randall had suffered a fractured
skull, making her recovery doubtful,
while Mr. Dougherty had escaped with a
broken arm and will recover.
179,000 UNIONISTS
VOTE TO STRIKE
While Unions Representing 100,000 More
are Voting To-day on Proposal to
Join General Movement
Wednesday.
New York. Sent. 2,1. Lalior organi
zations, including about 100,000 wrrkers,
met to-day to vote on the question of
joining the proposed general strike ef
fective Wednesday. Krnest Rohm, sec
retary of the conference of labor leaders
directing the movement, asserted that
unions representing 17!,000 workers had
Ireadv voted to strike.
WILSON GOES ON STUMP.
Will Speak on Campaign Issues at Bal
timore. Long Branch. X. V., Sept. 25. Presi
dent Wilson left Shadow Lawn this
mnrninff for Baltimore, where he was to
discuss the railroad eight-hour law and
other campaign issues betore the ..Na
tional firkin Dealers' association this
afternoon. This ia the president's first
i-i..
trip away for campaign purposes, mc
speech is to be the first of a series bo
fnra nnn . nn rt ikh ii ortra nizations and it
was expected the address would indicate
. . . r 11
the nature of his campaign, tie win re
turn to Shadow Lawn to-night.
TALKOF THE TOWN
Miss Mildred Marrion of Summer
street, who is taking a vacation from her
duties in the Xew England Fruit store, is
visiting 'relatives in Burlington.
Mrs. George W. Mann of Wellington
street returned to the city Saturday
from South Royalton, where she has been
making a visit of several weeks with
relatives.
Mrs. Fanny Buchanan and Mrs. Steph
en Frangle, who were called to Barre by
the death of Mrs. Annabella MacDonald
of Thompson place, have returned to
their home in Bury, P. Q.
Charles Wood, who has been passing a
a vacation of ten days at his former
home in Keene, X. H., returned to the
city last, night and resumed his duties in
the Xew England Fruit store this morn
ing. Mr. and Mrs. Frank G. ITowland and
Mr. and Mrs. George Raddey, who are
visiting at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Howland, took an automobile trip to
Strafford yesterday, where they visited
friends.
Ralph H. Rogers, who has been staying
at the home of his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Frank G. Rogers of Richardson street,
since the close of college last June, left
this noon .for Xew Haven, Conn., where
he will resume his studies at Yale uni
versity this week.
Angelo C. Calderara of Xorth Main
street received word yesterday of the
death of his only son, Leo Calderara,
aged six, who passed away in Italy Aug.
24, after an illness of four months. The
child was with his mother, who went to
Italy some time ago and was residing in
Tarsogno, where the little fellow died.
The bov was born in Barre March 2ti,
1910.
John B. Fames, manager of the Park
theatre, returned this morning from Bos
ton, where he has been spending the past i
week on business with the Boston Photo j
Flav Co. Mr. Fames has been successful i
enough to book several goon piays wnne
away, tmong them being the drama en
titled, "Where Are My Children!" a play
which has been one of the most popular
moving pictures in all the large cities
throughout the country.
Mrs. F.llen C. Moore of the Miles
building is at the City hospital suffer
ing with a serious injury to her right
thigh which she sustained early this
morning. Mrs. Moore had arisen from
her bed and was about to cross the room
when she slipped on a small rug. When
she fell either a bone fracture or severe
sprain was sustained. Although a tele
phone instrument was on a shelf near
the bed, Mrs. Moore waa unable to reach
it and it remained for other tenants in
the building to come to her assistance.
Dr. J. W. Stewart was called and in the
office of Dr. IL H. Reid an X-Ray photo
graph of the thigh was taken. After
ward the patient was removed to the
hospital in the Perry & Xoonan ambu
lance. The X-ray pictures are evpected
to determine the exact nature of her
Injury.
LARGE FIRES
WERE STARTED
German Zeppelin Observers
Calculate England Suf
fered Much
THE ATTACK EVEN
REACHED LONDON
Two of the Great Airships
Fell Victims to Anti
Air Craft Guns
Berlin, via London. Sept. 2.1. Exten
sive fires were observed to have been
caused by the Zeppelin bombardment of
London arid the English midland counties
Saturday night, it was announced to-day
in the official report of the raid. Two
Zeppelins were lost a the result of the.
fire of anti-aircraft guns in London the
statement adds.
London, Sept. 25. "f the 12 big Zep
pelins which invaded the British Isles
Saturday night to deal death and de
struction from the skies, two to-day lay
stark and black masses of steel and alu
minum in the little village of Mangold.
Essex county. They fell victims of the
anti aircraft defenses of Ixmdon and out
lying districts.
One came down a flaming torch, as did
the Zeppelin L-21, destroyed three weeks
ago, while the second, disabled by gun
fire, effected a landing, which saved the
lives of the crew, who are now prisoners
in England. The crew of the first raider
died in the flames of their own ship, but
they were not so terribly charred as their
predecessors.
This latest raider to light her own
funeral way on English soil collapsed and
was consumed much more quickly than
the L-21. It is possible, though, that
some of the men were still living when
the great vessel struck the ground. The
captain's body was found some distance
from the wreck.
The death and burning of the first Zep
pelin was witnessed by tens of thousands
of London residents, but the wounding
and descent of the second raider was a
matter of doubt until yesterday's official
statements were given out. Few details
are available of this second raider's con
dition, but it is deliably reported that
the crew surrendered to special con
stables. Many who saw the shrapnel bursting
like sky rockets about the invader, which
subsequently caught fire, 'think there
must have been several direct hits. Many
aeroplanes were aloft, and attacked the
Zeppelins from all eides.
The raiders took a heavy toll of lives
before their destruction. 2S persons being
killed and 00 wounded in the metropoli
tan district of Ixndon. Two persons
were killed, probably four, and 17 were
wounded in t lie provinces. The property
damage, while widely distributed, is con
fined for the most part to small sub
urban dwellings and shops, although one
railway station was damaged, some
empty cars being destroyed and part of
the tracks torn up.
The roar of dropping bombs was heard
in many districts where the raiders were
invisible. It is not lielieved that more
than two or three invading Zeppelins
which crossed the east coast euceeeded in
reachingthe environs of London and that
two of these paid the death penalty gives
the greatest satisfaction to the military
authorities. Apart from the loss in ma
terial, the casualties of the last two raids,
it is believed, will have a depressing ef
fect on the morale of the Zeppelin crews
in the future.
The fact that the airships were
brought down well outside of Iondon,
both Saturday night and Sept. 3, fdiows
the care with which the defenses have
been developed. The efficiency in deal
ing with the raiders was further evi
denced by the speed with which the
searchlights picked up the first raider
that appeared above the suburbs about
midnight. Suddenly a searchlight beam
shot into the starlit Rky. Three more
dazzling shafts followed, and within 15
seconds the whirring airships were
caught in the toils and the guns Viegan
sending up shrieking shrapnel shells.
For a minute or two the raider kept
its course; then wavered, turned parviv
away and suddenly dissolved apparently j
infn th n air. hviOentlv tne .eppenn
was beclouded in the smoke and the
lights lost her completely. In the mean
time, however, bombs were dropping and
red flares were visible as they hit the
earth. Then the city was quiet for an
hour, the searchlights flashing only occa
sionally in the hunt for raiders.
All London within sound of the guns
and bombs was out to see the spectacle
and almost despaired of further excite
ment when well to the eastward a tiny
glow appeared low in the sky. It iookco
first like the moon rising red" in its last
quarter from behind a cloud bank. From
the city it appeared to hang stationary
for a minute or more, then glowing red
der and redder, slowly turned to the per
pendicular and streaked into the gloom
of the smoky night ground mist.
To the watchers in Essex, however,
the spectacle of the flaming, falling Zep
pelins had all the thrills of excitement
which marked the end of the L-21 and
they cheered the gunners snd their for
tunate shots that brought the raiders to
earth.
NEW YORK SCHOOLS OPEN.
But There Is Still Much Apprehension
About Infantile Paralysis.
New York. Sept. 25. The public
schools opened to-day, two weeks later
theft, usual. The school- authorities esti
mated that the parent of 75.""0 of the
city' SNV0 school children would keep
them at home through fear of infantile
paralysis. Teacher were instructed to
take every precaution to discover c-
of the diae, and physicians and nurse
w ill visit the schools daily to examine
children about whose health the teachers
may be doubtful.
LOST PEDESTRIANS
FOUND IN FOREST
TIRED AND FOOTSORE
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Dennison of Boston
Had Taken Refuge in Abandoned
Logging Camp in New
Hampshire.
Dixville Xotch, X. IL, Sept. 2.1. Jo
sepli A. Detmlson, former assistant dis
trict attorney of Suffolk county, Massa
rhusetts, and hi wife, who had been lost
nearly four days in the wilderness of the
northern foothills or the w Nte moun
tains, were found early Sunday. They
had sulfered greatly from exhaustion and
lack of , food and sleep, but it was not
thought their hardship would cause per
manent injury to their health.
The Dennison were found in an aban
doned lodging camp on the shores of
Dead Diamond stream in the Dartmouth
college grant, a wild country near the
Maine border and 10 miles from the- ho
tel from which they had set out Wednes
dav afternoon for a troll.
In seeking to return they had lost their
bearing in the almost trackless woods
and for two day had wandered in quest
of a habitation. Not until Friday did
thev find shelter in an old lumber shack,
where thev remained, loo tired to walk
anv farther and not knowing which way
to turn. Mrs. Dennison s fert were so
swollen that it waa doubtful whether she
could have continued much farther.
The lawyer anil his wife were found by
Earl (iould and Scott Copp, employes of
the hotel, who had joined with scores of
other persons in the hunt. As a result,
thev are entitled to ' reward of $1,500,
of which $l.ooo was offered by Daniel H.
Coakley of Boston, brether of Mrs. Den
nison. and $500 bv Thomas G. Washburn
of that city, a close friend of tie former
district attorney.
Mavor Cnrlev of Boston and other
friends of the missing couple, who ar
rived yesterday to help in the search.
were on hand to greet Mr. ami .Mrs. Den
nison when they were brought out of the
woods last night.
NOT LILY-WHITE, IN FACT.
St. Johnsbury Disclosed as Heavy Drink
er of Liquor.
St .lohnsburv. Sent. 2.1. Rev. F. B.
Richards, pastor of Xorth Congregational
church, preached a strong sirmon Sun
da v, on the subject of "Supjiosine." He
said that St. Johnsbury was not the
"lily-white" town that it was supposed
to be; that large quantities ot liquor
were being consumed, in spite of the fact
that the town was no license; that par
ents supposed their children were free
from contamination, when in reality they
were "exposed to temptation ss much in
a town like this as they are in a large
city"; that the people ignore the inte of
Greece, Rome and Palestine in the suppo
sition that this country has a sort of
"divine destiny" that will perpetuate its
great ncSts; and that this, "the greatest
neutral nation, may lie getting a fatty
degeneration of the soul that may leud
to our degradation and possible. ruin."
Giving the suppositions from which he
believed the people were wrongfully in
dulging in. Rev. Mr. Richards said:
"The supposition that because this
town votes no-license there is little drink
ing of intoxicating liquor here, when the
fait is that larre quantities are brought,
in here constantly, and delivered even to
respectable and supposed Christian fam
ilies." lie added: "Many citizens sink back
satisfied when a law has been put on the
statute books and suppose that it may be
left. to enforce itself. Whereas the fact
is that, usually, even the sworn officers
of the law will enforce only what puhlic
sentiment dmands; and .eternal vigi
lance is the price not only of liberty but
also of clean moral conditions in a com
munity." NEW CASE AT ESSEX CENTER.
Two-Year-Old Child Has Infantile Par
alysis, Doctors Report.
Burlington. Sept. 25. The second case
of poliomyelitis to appear this year in
Chittenden county is that of Oryis. the
two-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Loyal
Remington. The case was discovered at
Esex Center Saturday, and is the one
which has appeared in closest proximity
to this city. Although laboratory tests
were not complete by physKians of the
state board of health yesterday, Doctors
Ladd and Taylor, wVThave seen the in
fant who is suffering with the disease,
are of the opinion that it 1 a plain case
of infantile paralysis.
The chihl lives with his parents at
the home of his grandparents, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Xichols, in. Essex Center.
He was first noticed to be ill on Friday,
but he mav have been ill a day or two
f0Te. nr. M. W, Hunter of Essex
Junction was called on Saturday and the
case was reported to Dr. C. F. Dalton,
secretary of the heard of health, a a
case of poliomyelitis. Dr. Ladd ssw the
child Saturday afternoon and Dr. Taylor
of the research laboratory at the college
of medicine visited the patient yester
day afternoon. Paralysis of the muscles
has not yet showed oil the child, the case
being more one of weakness. The
house, in which a boy 13 years of age
also lives, has been put under 6trict
qua ran tine.
The origin of the cause not yet been
traced. So far as has been ascertained
bv the laboratory physicians no definite
hi-tory of contact has been found. Peo
ple from Essex Center have been to l'n
derhill and there is the very remote pos
sibility that the disease may have been
brought to the chihl in thafc manner,
HOUSE WAS SAVED
But Barn snd Other Buildings on South
Franklin Farm Were Burned.
South Franklii-., Sept. 25. A large
lrn. a granary and other buildings on
the farm of Fiiiil Kendall near this vil
la.' were destroyed by fire, which was
discovered about 1:30 o'clock yesterday
'attcrnoon in the barn. The fire, which
j originated in an unused part of the barn.
had made such headway when aicovcr-l
bv Mr. Kendall's nephew. Milo Morris.
...r. .....
that efforts to cxtingui-n u nan min - j
effect, and the family directed most of
their efforts to avin:
g the house, which
wa& in .Imir-er from flvintr sparks.
large ouantitv ot hav. which was in the i
was s-,ed. The .. , estimated at
jio.nno., nhicb is partially cov
ov.-red by in-
turance.
CRETE HELD
BY REBELS
30,000. Armed Insurgents in
Complete Con
trol KING'S CRETAN GUARD
NEARLY ALL-QUIT
Government Buildings Are
Turned Over to the
Separatists
London, Sept. 2.1. Fully armed Cretan
insurgents, numlxring about 30,000, are
in complete control of the itJand of Crete,
according to Reuter's Athens despatch.
Several coast towns are in their posses
sion. The Greek authorities have turned
over all government buildings to leader
of the separatist movement. Only 11
memliers of King Constantine's Cretan
guard remain loyal, the others being dis
banded. KING'S GUARD DISLOYAL.
Part of Them Propose to Follow Venize
los Into Revolution.
Athens, via London, Sept. 2,1. Sixty
nine members of King Constantine's fa
mous Cretan guard purpose following
former Premier Ycnizelos to Saloniki
should he decide to go there to join the
revolutionary movement, according to
advices from Crete.
VERMONT TROOPS
WILL ARRIVE TUESDAY
Authentic Report Has it That They Will
Not be Mustered Out of State
Service, Only Out of Federal.
Burlington,, Sept. 25. The 1st regi
ment of intantrv, ermont .National
Guard, which is en route from Eagle
Pass. Tex., to Fort Ethan Allen, having
left their border station on the night of
Wednesday, Sept. 20, arrived last night
at Chicago and are expected to reach
Fort Ethan Allen Tuesday.
The regiment is traveling in three sec
tions, commanded bv Col. Ira L. Reeves,
Lieut-Col. Fred B. Thomas and Major
Walter O. Cooley, respectively, and bus
iness men at various stores along the
route have said that the Vermont troopaJ4
are the best behaved of any of the regi
mcnts which they have seen.
At San Antonio, 'lex., where the men
were allowed a lew-- minutes --res - w
stretch their legs, Capt. M. B. Gill of
this city. Lieutenant Boyd of North
Adams, Mass., Sergeant McGarth of
I'lattsburg, X. Y., and Corporal Farring-
ton became so interested in seeing the
town that they were left Itehind. They
took a fast train,, however, and caught
up with their sections at Xew Orleans,
where the men were given an Hours
leave. Cpon rejoining the command, Col.
Reeves immediately provided the ""Hr. Seaver; treasurer, A. L. Patterson
cers with shipping tags, bearing identi
fication data. ,
It is said on good authority that the
Vermont troops which are now returning
from the border and the 160 unassigned
recruits now at Fort Ethan Allen will
not be discharged, but will be merely
mustered out of the federal service, thus
automatically reverting to their former
status as state militia.
RUN OVER SEVERAL TIMES.
Body of Richard R. Morris Was Found in
Fair Haven.
Rutland, Sept, 25. The terribly muti
lated hodv of Richard R. Morris of Hyde-
ville. a blacksmith employed by Durick
A Keenan on Scotch hill in Fair Haven,
was discovered lying between the rails
of the main electric car line just east of
the Delaware A Hudson overpass in Cas
tleton Saturday just before midnight and
the supposition is that the man had been
rolled and cut by three cars which
passed this point before the body was
found.
The liody was removed to the Mancott
undertaking rooms in Osstleton and yes
terday morning following an investiga
tion bv State's Attorney C. V. Poulin
and the officials of the Rutland Railway,
l ight & Power company, permission was
given to move the body to the home of
the man's uncle, Robert O Morris, in
Hydeville. from which place the funeral
will be helil to-morrow at 2 p. m. Burial
will be in Cedar Grove cemetery at Fair
Haven.
Just when the accident happened and
the details of the man's death will never
be known, but it is probable that while
walking from Castleton he stumbled
while crossing the overpass in the rear nf
the livery farm, fell to the tracks,
where he cither fell asleep or was caught
by an incoming car and crushed to death.
The man was last seen alive in the vil
lage of Castleton about 10 o'clock.
82 BUILDINGS BURNED.
And Business Section of Phctnix, N. Y.,
Waa Wiped Out.
Syracuse. N. Y., Sept. 25. Fire early
vesterday wiped out the entire business
district and more than half the industri
al section of the village of Phonix. cans
ing a loss of more than $1.0O0,0nn. One
person is known to have perished.
Eighty-two buildings were destroyed.
The" fire raged without check for 15
hours and the volunteer fire department
was rendered practically helpless by the
early destruction of the water pumping
station, which adjoined a power plant
in which the flames originated from a
hot journal, village authorities stated.
Not a store oi any aescripnun inn-wo
. ... .. r. confronted with a
- - ' ,, . ;i.
-nous problem of -PP H
lagers ... - - .
Auties were sworn, nu mucin ...
. 1 4hi-M.
thieve.
PHcrnix is 18 miles north of Syracuse
d the majority of it. population of
l1"" was empu'.ni ic ...
lories.
ARKLEY SINCLAIR.
Former Barre Young People Married Here
. Saturday.
A quiet wedding took place at the
Presbyterian manse on Wellington street
Saturday afternoon at 4 o'clock, when
Miss Martha Jane Sinclair, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. William Sim-lair of
Springfield, Mass., was united in mar
riage to Raymond J. Arkley. Rev. Edgar
Crosslnnd performed the ceremony in the
presence of near relative of the contract
ing parties. The single ring service wa
used, and the couple were attended by
Miss Ruth Milne Hnd Alexander C. Walk
er, long-time friends.
The bride's dress was of brown taffeta,
while that of the bridesmaid was of
green taffeta.
Mrs. Arkley is a former resident of
Barre and is employed in the office of the
Westinghousc company of Springfield.
Mr. Arkley is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
J. L. Arkley of Washington street, this
city, a 1015 graduate of Spaulding high
school, and at present is employed in the
office of the Stevens-1 luryta company,
also of Springfield. Both have many
friend in Harre, whose best wishes they
will carry back with them to their new
home.
A reception was given at the home of
the groom Saturday evening, when a
number of friends called to extend greet
ings to the newlyweds. They will take
up their residence at 22 Donald street,
Springfield, Mass.
THE WASHINGTON FAIR.
Opens Monday, Oct. 2, and Will Con
tinue for Three Days.
Fairgoers in Barre and numerous oth
er central Vermont towns will have an
opportunity to enjoy their favorite out
door sport for the last time in the Ver
mont countryside this year when Wash
ington fair gets under way Oct. 2. For
the reason that the famous "World's
faia" in Tunbridge has been cancelled
this year, the Washington exhibit willeft arm. In another moment the wheel
have the sole claim thereabouts on thejWOuld have crushed his bod v.
attention of people who do dearly love
the country fair. The first day. Mon
day, will be devoted entirely to ex
hibitors, entries etc., for which the sec
retary's office will be open until .1 o'clock
in the
Oct. 3,
afternoon. On the second day,
the gates will open at 7 a. in.
for the reception of stock taken out for
the night. By 0 o'clock on the siimejfrom the Larnorey Clothing Co.'s store
morning everything entered for premi-anff Godfrey was removed from the.
urns must be on the grounds and in! track. The'aecident occurred soon after
charge of several superintendents. The!;(:3o o'clock and a few moments later at
remainder of the day w ill be taken as j the City hospital the young railroad man
follows: 0:30, grand cavalcade and ex- submitted to an operation for the re
hibition of all town teams? 10 o'clock, ! moval of the limb two inches below the
exhibition of stallion and brood mares ! knee. Unless there are complications
for premiums; 10:30, exhibit of one-
two and three-year-old colts; 11:30 a.
m., judges will examine draught and
working oxen and draught horses; 1 p.
m., purse No. 1, 0 for three-minute
horses; 1:30, purse No. 2, $100 for 2:22
horses.
On the morning of the third day, Oct
thcre an exhibition 0"f gen
tlemen's driving horses on the track
for a premium and the examination of
matched horses for premium will follow.
The races in the afternoon are to in
clude a 2:40 event for $.10. a 2:20 event
for $75 and a free-for-all race with a
purse of $12.1. Premiums awarded on
articles entered in floral ball will be
paid by the treasurer on the afternoon
of .Oct 4. There will be good music
throughout the fair.
The officers of the society are: Pres
ident, Donald Smith of Barre; vice-
president. C. K. Stanley, secretary, K.
The following officers for the fair have
been chosen: General superintendent,
M. W. Chamberlain; horse, K. M. Hough
ton; cattle. C. E. Stanley; sheep and
swine, C. 1). faimer; poultry, n. w.
Downing; mechanic arts, G. H. Flint;
vegetable department. Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Ordway; floral hall. Mr. and Mrs.
1. L. Wood; track superintendent, E. K.
Houghton ; marshal, Harry Smith.
BURIAL AT ST. JOHNSBURY.
William H. Noonan, Former Barre Man,
Died in Chicago.
William H. Noonan. formerly a resi
dent of Barre. passed away in a Chica
go hospital Saturday morning, after an
illness cf a year. With him at the time
of his death was his brother. Patrick
Noonan of Cliff street, this city, who
went to Chicago several weeks ago. The
body was brought to Barre early this
iiiorninc and funeral services will be held
in St. Monica's church Tuesday morning i
at 5 o'clock, the parish priest, Rev. I . M.
McKenna, officiating. At 7:30 o'clock
the remains will be taken over the M.
& W. R. railroad to St. Johnsbury for
inferment.
The deceased was horn In St. Johns
bury April 15. 1S74. He resided in Barre
until a few years ago, when he removed
to Chicago. Besides Lis brother, he leaves
two nieces, Miss Gladys Noonan of Barre
and Mrs. Mary Mcilonald of Boston,
and two nephews. William Noonan of
this city and Frank Noonan of Boston.
TWO SERVICES HELD
For Mrs. Annabella MacDonald Saturday
' Afternoon.
The funeral of Mrs. Annabella Mac-
Donald, whose death occurred at a hos-,
pital in A1nooski Wednesday, was held
in the First 1'resbytcrian cnurcn im
day afternoon at 2 o'clock, the pastor
Rev. Edtrar 'Crossland. officiating. Pre
vious! v. pravers were said at her home in
'"' , . , , ...ii, Mrs. Neie Lucas ot t heisea was in tnr
imnsnn nlace at 1:30 oclock. 1 Me .n'-. . ,
impson uic i . .Iritv this morning on hut-mess.
J Nicholson. X orris A. Hamel and I the bi.Mnes, visitors in the utj
Thompson place ai i:.-" ocnniv
bearers
Sinclair,
neth Nicholson.
John Stewart. Ouring the services
George F. Mackay sang two selections,
Mr, .lames Iing playing the ornan ac
companiments. A delegation from Queen
of the Forest circle, to which Mrs. Mao
Donald belonged, attended the funeral
and a number of floral tribute included
a set piece from the order. Interment
was made in Hope cemetery.
ONLY FIVE DEATHS
From Infantile Paralysis in New York
in 14 Hours.
New York. Sept. 25. A new low record
was established for th 24 hours ending
to-day in the waning infantile paralysis
epidemic. Accord irg to t'ie hta'.tb de
partment's announcement, there were 14
B-w tasce and fic dcatta.
DEATH STARED
HIM IN FACE
Neil R. Godfrey, Losing Leg,
Almost Lost His Life
on Track
FLAT CAR ROLLED
EVEN TO HIS BODY
Wheel Stopped as It '.ned
Sleeve of Coa
the RaP
A brakeman's pres " of mind prob
ably saved the life of Keil R. Godfrey
in an accident which occurred in the M.
& W. R. freight yards late Saturday
afternoon while the Barre 4 Chelsea rail
road locomotive,1 Granite City, wa
shunting a flat car laden with Barre
granite along the scale track. Godfrey
slipped from the front running board on
the locomotive beneath the flat car and
sustained the loss of his left leg at the)
knee, but prompt action on the part of
O. W. Hastings, another brakeman who)
was on the running board with (Godfrey
and pulled the young man quickly to
the outside of the track, averted much
more serious injuries. Engineer A. P.
Burnham heard the warning cries of God
frey's fellow train workers and reversed
his brakes just as the rear wheel of the
fiat car wa about to pass over (Sodlrey a
Train men had to cut the young maa'
coat in order to release his arm, the gar
ment being caught between the flanges
of the wheel and the rail. Dr. J. A.
Wark was called and an ambulance was
I hurriedly summoned. While the phvsi-
cian and ambulance were rushing to the.
scene of the accident a cot was procured
he will recover from the effects of the
accident.
Godfrey passed his 30th birthday in
the hospital Sunday. He is the son of
Frank Godfrey of Williamstown and had
been employed as a brakeman on the
Barre & Chelsea road for two years. He
is a competent draughtsman, but took
up railroading when he returned front
an extended sojourn in the Canadian
Northwest four years ago.
Railroad men who were in the yard or
aboard the train w hen the accident hap
ened are at a loss to account for the
circumstances under which Godfrey near
ly lost his life. The Granite City lo
comotive with Engineer Burnham at th
throttle came down from Prospect street
in charge of Conductor R. H. Brown and
shifted to the scale track to get a load
of granite that was to have been trans
ferred to Burnham's meadow. The coup
ling had been made and the locomotive
had gone the length of a car when (kd
frey slipped. Car Inspector James O'Con
nell, who was on the ground alongside
the locomotive, and Brakeman Hastings
L.no was wjth Brakeman Godfrey on the
foot board, were the only ones who wit
nessed the accident. Conductor Brown
had started for the freight statfon with
the weight bill.
According to Mr. Hastings. Godfrey
was on the running board when he
slipped and fell towerd the car. Hast
ings grabbed the young man and threw
him toward the outside of the rails, and
at the same time shouted to the engineer
to reverse the brakes. How much the
latter's prompt response as well as
Brakeman Hastings'- presence of mind
figured in minimizing Godfrey's injuries
was revealed when the trainmen came
to remove the young man from the rails.
Although it had been raining, the run
ning brard was dry and officials state
that, the board was in no way defective,
as the locomotive was given a thorough
examination in the car shop Sept. 17.
Godfrey retained consciousness and
pluckily aided the trainmen in making
preparations for his removal to the hos
pital. not" CRITICALLY.ILL.
Underhill Center Woman Is Showing
Some Improvement.
Underhill Center, Sept. 25. The condi
tion of Mrs. Henry Bartlett. who was
stricken with infantile paralysis a week
ago, remains about the same. She is not
thought to be critically ill, and it is ex
pected that she will recover. The left leg
is paralvzcd, and the muscles of the right
ankl-. but her right arm, affected at first,
is showing signs of improvement.
The visitors from Lynn. Mass.. from
whom it is believed Mrs. Bartlett con
tracted the disease, will have to remain in
!ouarantnie a week longer, uprire n
t Kellev. Peter Grimes, Mattie Walls
an(j Rose McEvery
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Nellie Lucas of Chelsea wa In the
Satnrda v.
Mr. Fred Knapp of Northlield re
turned to her home yesterday, alter vis
iting friends in the city.
There will be a thimble party at the
Congregational church We.lne.iay after
noon. Indies of the parih especially in
vited; Kc offering. Light refreshment.
John F. Inland, who hss been visiting
friends in the city during the past week,
left last night for his home in Littleton.
N. H.
Mr. Flora Houston and Miss Harriet.
Hou-ton. who visited at the home of F.
jp. Houston of Xorthfield over the week
end. returned to their home on Maple
ftenue lt night.
Mr. Maria MclVrmntt returned to her
home in Att'eWo. Ma.. Saturday a't
r vi-iitinc at the home of Mr. and Mr.
Harry Gamble of Divi-ion street during
tit I-t daja.
