y '' >- !? -- ?^?
r- : t
f . ' ' *
WEATHER. if | ^ C^T^llr ^ -W IHdf "Front Pre? to Honu^j
Partlv cloudy tonight and tomorrow. I . . M X . B a. a . w. . a a . ? ^ a y^PlI ' 1
thunder moderate M w^B I AH BIB A^^A^>^AP I XI __.. . . ...
I 11 9|7f| IrTlT if Bar B^ f/Wf Within the Hour"
Temperature twenty-four hours ^B M T H \ H 1
ending: p.m.: Highest. p.m. to- H <1 ^B V H H H H H H H H H #\ H H ?553
day; lowest. 55. at a.m. today. | ^ ^ J ^-3. I * I B fl B B B ^W B ^L, ^1 B a. . .
|i - ^ I I ^ ^ ~ 7 1 ^7^ * ^ Bworm Net Clrcmlatlom. Moth ( April*
CLOSING \EW YORK STOCKS PAGE It. y ltlt, Dailp Areraffe, 82.91Ai Saaday. M,5m
No. 20.319. ~ WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, MAY 15, 1916-TWENTY PAGES. ONE CENT.
PREPARE TO RESIST I
MORE BORDER RAIDS
Army Officers Strengthening
Forces in the Vicinity
of Brownsville.
niNCTnW WAS RFP.FIVFn
. w.,? .
NEWS OF MEXICAN PLOT,
1
Officers Investigate Reports That i
Agitators Are Trying to Stir Up
Fresh Bandit Activities.
SAX ANTONIO. Tex.. May 15.?Information
indicating: a plan for the resumption
of raids across the international
line near Brownsville. Tex., has
reached army headquarters here, and
Willi it is expected, cause a consider- ,
able strengthening of the force now
patrolling that district. Gen Funston
and his staff will study in detail today
the proposed reorganization of the entire
border patrol and it was indicated
hat the 30th Infantry, coming from (
Jew York state, would be sent to Rio
Grande City for service between there
and Brownsville, the district so frequently
raided a year ago. <
Official reports from the. officer commanding
gave no additional nows of the
activities of armed Mexicans opposite
Progreso, Tex., but their presence there
was in line with reports made by
agents of the Department of Justice i
and of the State Department. Thesb
officials have been investigating for 1
several days reports that agitators
were trying to incite to fresh activity
those who parti' pated in the raids of
last year and ihat they had secured
tentative promises of co-operation, or
at least passive support, of certain f
minor Carranza officials located in that
quarter of Mexico. 1
No Anxiety for Col. Sibley. i
No apparent anxiety regarding the '
position of the little punitive force 1
that entered Mexico near Boqulllas was
indicated at headquarters. Col. Sibley \
is commanding only four troops of cavalry'
nd a machine gun company, but 1
army men here believe that he would
have o difficulty in withdrawing if
menaced by a greatly superior force.
Army officers here are deeply inter- t
ested in the efforts the Mexican troops ,
we're reDorted to be making to run ?
down the bandits who raided the Big j f
Bend district, and who still hold as a *
prisoner Jesse Deemer, an American
storekeeper. It is regarded here as not r
impossible that the Mexican troops may r
cut off the retreat toward the interior r
of the bandits and force them back
into the lines of Col. Sibley's cavalry.
With the exception of the attempt
tofdestroy a part of the buildings at
Fort Bliss Saturday night, no unusual *incidents
have been reported to gen- x
eral headquarters. Gen. Bell, reporting t
.the incident to Gen. Funston. expressed
'the opinion that the -fires were of in- c
cendiary origin. Gen. Funston ordered I
an investigation.
Additional Troops Have Arrived, j ^
With the exception of the 30th arid 3d | ,
Infantry, one battalion of the 3d Field j
Artillery and one company of Coast Ar- |
tillery, all the additional troops ordered \ (
to report to Gen. Funston have arrived.
The 30th and 3d were reported to have j
entrained at their stations in New York.
The 3d will be sent to Eagle Pass, but it 1
has not yet been decided where the 30th : 1
will be stationed. Four of the eleven \ ]
companies of Coast Artillery brought < i
here have been sent to border stations. 1
The militia mobilization at Douglas, Columbus
and at Fort Sam Houston here
was completed today. j i
The militiamen will be mustered into j
.ne regular military establishment Tues- j
day. Medical officers who have been ex- |
a.rtining the men stated that the percent- i
age to be rejected because of physical j
condition will be negligible Some have
protested against being sworn in for the
term of their enlistment." but it is ex- j
pected that at least 85 per cent will enter
tlie service without protest.
Expedition Is Pushing On.
MARATHON. Tex., May 15?The expedition
in search oi the bandits who |
raided Glenn Springs has checked its
dash into Mexico and is now awaiting
ieinforcement3 before pushing on. according
to reports received here today.
1A message has been sent to Maj. Gen. j
Funston by Col. Sibley, commanding | ,
the expedition, it was learned, asking i
for aid.
Military observers h*re point out that
Maj. Langhorne and his flying squad- i
ron of th* 8th Cavalry are now per- |
haps 200 miles beyond their base witn- ,
out sufficient troops to protect their j
line of communication Marathon, the ,
base, is ninety' miles distant from j
Boquilias over broken country.
Several instances have been reported
of bandits operating behind the expe- j
dition without meeting armed re- j
slstance. j j
Supplies are being rushed to Boquilias,
there to be transferred to pack
animals for Sibley's command. The ,
two -Mexican prisoners brought into
Marathon by Sheri*.. Shoemaker from
Boquilias Saturday night will be sent
to Alpine for trial for murder.
Gen. H. L. Scott Arrives
From El Paso and Makes
His Report to Secretary
Mej Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff
of the arm v r*?t urnort t/wlav u
ider conferences with Gen. Obregon.
hopeful for the situation, despite the ;
fact that the conferences resulted in no j
formal agreement tqr co-operative ac- j
tlon. The chief of staff conferred with j
Secretary Baker, but made no formal j
report. Secretary Baker said Gen. j
Scott stated he thought a favorable sit- t
uation had been created by the conferences.
Gen. Scott will see Secretary Lansing
tomorrow, and meanwhile no steps will
be taken to reopen diplomatic negotiations
for a formal agreement with Gen.
Carranza. Secretary Baker indicated,
however, that Gen. Scott thought there
would be no great delay in arriving at
an understanding and formulating a
protocol.
y
Carranza Troops Uoving North.
lending the ratification of an agreement.
Carranza troops are being moved
northward into the bandit-ridden portions
of Mexico. The American expeditionary
force, under Gen. Pershing, is
being withdrawn into strong groups on
the line of communication, where it
4 will await the outcome of Gen. Obregon's
efforts to clean up the territory
to the south.
Gen. Funston has mapped out a co
BRITISH NOW TAKE I
BUWEN OF BATHE
Sharp Fighting Along Their l
Front in Northern France
and Flanders.
INFANTRY GIVEN A REST i
IN THE REGION OF VERDUN
Artillery Continues Bombardment in
Sector of Avocourt Wood
and Hill 304.
LONDON, May 15.?Sharper fighting
is now in progress in other sections of
the western front than in the Verdun
region, upon which attention has been
rhiefly centered for nearly three months
past.
Notable activity has been reported
recently along the British .lines in
northern France and Flanders, and today
Paris records brisk action by the
artillery on both sides in the Champagne.
the scene of the main French
drive in last September's offensive.
At Verdun, the play of the heavy
guns is being kept up to some extent,
there having been bombardments in
the sectors of the Avocourt wood and
hill 304. northwest of the fortress.
British Attack Germans.
BERLIN. May 15, by wireless to Sayville.
N. Y.?The British have been'attacking
the German lines near Hulluch,
? . ? . . a
n nonnern rrance. in an enort to re- ^
rapture the trenches recently taken by i
the Germans there, but all their at- 1
tempts have been repulsed, according ?
o today's statement by the war office.
In the Verdun region the French
railed in attacks near Dead Man hill
ind near the Caillette wood.
The text of today's headquarter's e
statement is as follows: _
"Western theater?The artillery and
patrols on both sides have been active n
n many sections t
"The enemy attempted to recapture c
he positions taken by the Germans
lear Hulluch. All his attempts either 5
>roke down under the German artillery ?
Ire or were repulsed in hand-to-hand ^
Ighting. *
"French attacks in the Meuse district, 1
>n the west sfope of Dead Mat) hill and x
lear the Caillette wood were easily re- c
julsed." J
Bombardment at Verdun. a
PARIS. May 15, 11:45 a.m.?The bom- ?
ardment in the region of the Avocourt r
vood and hill 304, in the Verdun sec- r
ion. still continues, according to an J
>fficial statement issued today by the
**rench war office. J
In a small engagement west of Mount
retu, in Champagne, -the French cap- f
tured fifteen prisoners. Calm is re- a
ported on the rest of the front. *
The text of the statement follows: t
"South jf the Somme near Verman- c
iovillers we delivered a coup de main 1
which permitted us to clear the enemy c
from a first line trench. (
"In Champagne there was great artll- t
lery activity on both sides in the sec- $
tors of Maisons de Champagne and the c
Butte du Mesnil An invasion of a Ger- t
man work west of Mount Tetu permit- a
ted us to capture fifteen prisoners.
"In the Verdun region there were
bombardments in the sector of the
woods of Avocourt and hill 304.
"Calm is reported on the rest of the e
front." '
a
SIX WEEKS TO PLAN PARADE.
Col. Sherrill Tells of Difficulty of Organizing
New York Procession.
NEW YORK. May 15.?Col Charles H.
sherrill, who organized the imposing <
parade held Saturday to promote national
preparednes, said today . th^t
six weeks of hard work by hundreds of
men was required to organize the great
lemonst ration.
"Yet," he added, "we did not equip,
provision nor transport a single man.
This proves that those who say that a
citizen army of 1,000,000 men is available
overnight are mistaken.
"It is a patriotic pleasure," said Mr.
Sherrill, "to be able to deny all rumors
that our German-American fellow-citizens
were hostile to the parade. We
had thousands of them in our columns,
and the leading German-language
newspapers in the city indorsed the
pa rude.
"The insurance division in the preparedness
parade has been organized as
u nermanent hodv to nrnmntp r*r?r?ar?H_ r
ness under the name of the Insurance a
Club. There were 8,000 men in this I
division." t
, a
TO UEGE DEFENSE NEEDS. \
t
Parade Similar to That in New York Proposed
in Chicago.
CHICAGO, May 15.?Encouraged by
the size of New York's parade last Saturday
in favor of adequate preparedness
for defense, a call is being prepared
today by William Mather Lewis,
secretary of the Ilinois Naval League,
to business and professional men, officials
of commercial organizations and
civic associations to formulate plans
for a similar demonstration in Chicago.
Tentative dates suggested for the
demonstration are June 10, during national
convention week, and July 4.
" 1
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senates
Met at noon. *
Considered the nomination of
' George Rublee to the federal
j trade commission in executive
j session.
Houses
Met at 11 a.m.
Resumed discussion of rural
credits* bill.
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS.
( Scnatei j
The Polndexter District dele,
rate toil: was favorably reported
| from the Dletrlet committee by
Senator Pomerene. J
CLASHES ENLIVEN
RIGGSBANK CASE
Court Refuses to Permit Defense
to Cross-Examine
Justice McCoy.
FORMER PRESIDENT TAFT
APPEARS AS A WITNESS
restifies tp Good Character of C. C.
Glover?Question of Jurisdiction
in the Foreeround.
The long-expected "fireworks" in the
:rial of officials of the Riggs National
Bank for alleged perjury growing out of
heir charges that Treasury officials tried
o wreck the bank, began this morning in
Criminal Court No. 1 of the District when
he celebrated case was resumed. Jusice
Siddons, presiding, refused to allow
counsel for the bank officials to cross-eximine
Justice McCoy, before whom the
jriginal papers in the civil case of the
bankers against the Treasury officials
are re filed, along lines which the defense
>elieves would be favorable to their case,
ind which, attorneys for the defense said,
night result in Justice Siddons throwing
he case out of court.
This caused a verbal set-to between
:ounsel, among whom tension in the
Opposing camps is rapidly tightening,
tnd similar exchanges of criticism were
leveloped between them in two other
ulings by Justice Siddons, all his rulngs
during the morning session being
infavorable to the counsel for the
>ank officials. It was necessary .to
lend the jury out of the room in one
;ase, as the hour for the luncheon re:ess
approached, when counsel for the
>ank was stopped by the court from
isking separate questions of Justice
dcCoy, and when counsel for the bank,
n this case Frank J. Hogan, began
o make a statement outlining what he
ixpected to prove by his questions adiressed
to Justice McCoy.
Ex-President Taft on Stand.
une 01 me oiiu *? "
sning incidents of the day was the aptearance
on the witness stand of foroer
President William H. Taft, totestify
hat he has known Charles C. Glover,
i resident of the bank, for twenty-six
'ears, and that he believes Mr. Glover's
itanding, character and reputation for
onesty and veracity to be excellent,
fo one undertook to crpss-examine the
ormer President, whose appearance
vas unexpected, and who was placed
>n the witness stand at the morning
esumption of the trial, to facilitate his
[eparture to catch a train at 11 o'clock.
lr. Taft, with his usual urbanity and
he pleasant smile for which he has
ecome famous, held something of a
eception, as he came into the court
oom, and many persons came up to be
iresented to him and to recall themelves
to him.
The courtroom was packed and
ammed by lawyers, bankers and others
nterested In the trial, among the specators
being Chauncey M. Depew,
ormer senator from New York. 'As
oon as Mr. Taft had testified, counsel j
or the defense began efforts to get |
ito the record the fact that Mr. Laskey.
he district attorney, who appeared as
rounsel for Secretary McAdoo and Con- i
roller Williams, when the bank offi:ials
accused the Treasury officials of
:onspiracy, had alleged that the Equity
?ourt was without jurisdiction, and :
hat Mr. Laskey, when he. drew the inlictmentS'for
perjury which the bank!
fficials are answering, charged that j
he alleged perjury was committed "in j
. court of competent jurisdiction."
Jurisdiction Claiming Attention.
The question of jurisdiction therefore ;
xcited much attention and is likely to
io so well along into the trial. The
rat fight between counsel, along this
ine, came when Mr. Laskey began
eading to the jury, and physically
bowing them, transcripts of the Lewis
ohnson & Co. accounts and the soalled
Larnmond affidavit, which are
upposed to prove that the Riggs Bank
iealt in stocks. Mr. Laskey said he
cas reading the papers and showing
hem to the jury to make them a part
f the record, and notwithstanding ob
cv. tiVUO U J WUllSCi 1U1 UIC IJO.ll JV mill
he papers consist of evidence not suitble
at this stage of the trial for submission
to the jury, Justice Siddons
uled that Mr. Daskey might continue.
Counsel for the bank charged that the
eading of the papers and the showing
o them of the papers was highly prejudicial
to their case. Mr. Darlington
>f counsel for the bank, said:
"It is inconceivable that these things
an be read and exhibited to the jury
vithout influencing their minds."
The appearance of Justice McCoy on
he witness stand was as unexpected
o the defense as was the appearance
>t former President Taft to the prose:ution.
Justice McCoy was called by the
irosecution to show that he presided
n the Equity Court at the time the
>ank officials accused the Treasury
(fllcials of conspiracy, and he was
LSked to identify the so-called Gloverriather-Flather
affidavit, which has
?ecome celebrated with the Lammond
iffldavit. an alleged contradiction beween
the two furnishing the basis
>f the perjury charges. Counsel for
he prosecution aroused the ire of Mr.
iogan by constantly using the phrase
the perjured affidavit,"
Justice McCoy's Testimony.
Justice McCoy testified that he had
ssued a temporary restraining injuncion
to prevent the covering into the
Treasury Department of the five-thouisnd-dollar
fine which Controller Wiliams
assessed against the bank, and
hen ensued some brilliant fencing beween
Justice McCoy and Mr. Hogan.
The latter wanted to make .Fustier Mr
roy testify that at the time the civil
:ase was begun the government had
:ontended that his court had no jurisliction.
Justice McCoy testified that
\e has had the question of jurisdiction
inder advisement since May 27, last, but
;ould not recall the argument made
i year ago as to the question of jurisliotion.
Hereupon the prosecution objected,
md there was another long legal tilt,
vhich ended in Justice Siddons ruling
:hat the defense could not cross-eximine
Justice McCoy at this time along
hese lines. Thd point involved was
hat if Justice McCoy rules eventually
:hat his court has no jurisdiction that
iecision would automatically quash the
ndictments against the bank officials.
The examination of former President
raft was conducted by John B. Stanchleld,
of counsel for the defense. Mr.
raft gave his occupation as a professor
>f law at Tale University and said he
had known Mr.'Glover for twenty-six
rears.
Met Mr. Glover In 1880.
"George W. Rlgge. one of the heads
of the Rt4ge tnetltutlon," Mr. T&ft
?
2\
~t? - ^ r
I *' ' i
I
?
i '
^ SlJ
1 ^ -ts3
* v.'
mm CONSIDER
PLANS FOR CONVENTION
Republican National Committee to
Assemble in Chicago June 1.
Contests Scheduled.
5 1
The republican national committee will |
meet in Chicago. June 1, to take up the
work preliminary to the meeting of the '
national convention. James B. Reynolds,
secretary of the committee, left for
Chicago last night and Chairman Hilles i
will leave New York Sunday.
The first work of the committee will
deal with contests among delegates. The
contests so far filed are as follows:
Florida 1; Georgia, 17; Louisiana, 12;
Mississippi, 2; Missouri, 2; Oklahoma, 4;
South Carolina, 3; Virginia. 1; and the
District of Columbia, 2. Nearly all involve
factional disputes, those of Louisana
and Georgia being a contest between the
so-called "black and tan" and "lily white"
factions.
Preliminary Appointments.
William F. Stone, sergeant-at-arms of
the republican national committee, made
preliminary appointments for the quadrennial
meet today. Chaplains and under
Ollicero OI me uuiiycuuuii wcic iiamcu. |
The chaplains were assigned for the different
days as follows:
Wednesday, June 7?Rev. John Timothy
Stone, pastor of the Fourth Presbyterian
Church.
Thursday, June 8?Rt. Rev. Francis
C. Kelley, president of the Catholic
Church Extension Society.
Friday, June 9?Bishop William F. McDowell,
of the Methodist Episcopal
Church.
Saturday, June in?The Rev. William O.
Waters, pastor of Grace Episcopal Church.
Col. Edwin P. Thayer of Indianapolis
will be the chief assistant sergeant-atarms
of the convention, John J. Hanson
of Baltimore, will be chief doorkeeper.
Col. William Nelson Pelouze, of Chicago,
brother-in-law of Mayor Thompson, will
be chief usher, and Edmund J. Wachter
of Baltimore will be chief clerk.
Headquarters Opened Today.
CHICAGO, May 15.?James B. Reynolds,
secretary of the committee, arrived
today and opened headquarters
in the Coliseum, where the republican
national convention will convene June
7. First attention was directed to getting
the contests over delegations in
shape for presentation to the whole
committee, which meets here June 1.
Among the problems which raced the
secretary was the distribution of seats.
In the press section there are accommodations
for 528 and 1,500 applications
for seats have been received.
The committee on arrangements reserved
200 seats for the use of presidential
condidates and their friends. So
far fourteen presidential candidates
h?ve communicated with Mr. Reynolds
with requests for a total of 700 seats.
SUSSEX ATTACK "MISTAKE."
Berlin Sends Note to Spanish Government
Admitting Responsibility.
MADRID via Paris, May IS.?The
Spanish foreign office has received & note
from the German government acknowledging
that the steamer Sussex was torpedoed
by a German submarine, the explanation
being given that the commander
honestly believed it to be a warship.
The German government ^greatly deplored
the misfortune and expressed regret,
which was all the greater because Enrique
Granados, the Spajtish composer, and nis
wife were among the victims.
Germany further declared its readiness
to indemnify the families of those who
perished. The foreign minister has instructed
the Spanish ambassador at Berlin
to thank the German government.
Civilians Killed- in Aerial Attack.
PARIS, May IB.?An aerial attack on
Majadash. naar the Greek-Serbian
frontier, southwest of Dolran, in which
fourteen civilians were killed, is reported
In a Havas dispatch from
Salonlkl. The raid occurred .Friday.. Jl
number at parsons wars wounded,
... - .... ..... .-. , ,
^ I
DRIFTED AT SEA THREE DAYS.
Russell Gough of Catonsville, Md.>
Shipwrecked in Atlantic.
BALTIMORE. May 15.?To be shipwrecked
in midocean and left at the
mercy of the waves in a lifeboat for
three days and four nights was the experience
of Russell Gough. son of
Harry L. Gough, who has arrived at j
the home of his father on Ingleside 1
avenue, Catonsville, from Europe. He I
was employed as a,cook on-the Danish i
ship Claudie, which was carrying a I
cargo of lumber from Jacksonville, j
Fla.. to Fleetwood, England. The crew !
consisted of fourteen men. When in
midocean the ship encountered a severe
storm, which caused the steering wheel
to break and threw one of the crew
overboard.
The ship soon sprung a leak and the
crew was compelled to take to the lifeboats.
For three days and four nights
they drifted about in the boats, but at
last were sighted by a French liner. When
rescued the food and water supply of
the party had been exhausted.
HOLD BUSINESS MEETING.
Ohio Members of Associated Press j'
Assemble at Columbus.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, May 15.?Ohio
members of the Associated Press met
here today for a business meeting to be
followed by a dinner this evening.
Melville E. Stone, general manager
of the Associated Press, and Paul
Cowles of Chicago, superintendent of
the central division, will speak at the
dinner.
It Is expected that fifty editors will
attend the meetings. Those who attend
will include both publishers who
hold certificates of membership in the
Associated Press and employes of the
editorial departments of newspapers
which are members of the Associated
Press.
WOMAN'S PARTY PLANS.
Delegates Arriving at Chicago to Attend^
Suffrage Convention.
CHICAGO, May 15.?Early arrivals
for the woman's party convention
which will be held here at the same
time as the republican and progressive
party national conventions today began
preparations to launch a campaign
of publicity and to complete the organization
work for the convention.
The suffragists plan to hold thirty
street meetings daily in Chicago until
the date of the convention. In addi- ,
tion, woman orators will address worn- '
en's meetings, clubs, luncheons and 1
even dances in an effort to bring the i
Susan B. Anthony amendment before
the women of the city,
MOB AN AMERICAN AVIATOR.
Japanese Angered When an Exhibi
To
UUU xiigiib 10 xrciajrcu. I .
OSAKA. Japan, May 15.?A riot oc- [ 1
curred today as a result of Arthur Smith, |
an American aviator, delaying the commencement
of a flight. Smith was injured
slightly by stones thrown by the
mob and was taken to a hospital. His .
aeroplane was damaged and its shed destroyed.
The police had some difficulty in quelling
the disturbance and before they
were able to do so many persons in the
crowd were injured. Twenty-eight of
the rioters were arrested.
MOKE MARINES LANDED.
About 500 Have Been Sent Asbore
at San Domingo City.
Landing of more American marines
at San Domingo City to deal with the
revolution led by Gen. Arias, minister
of war, against former President
Jlminez, was reported today to the
Navy Department by Rear Admiral '
Caperton, commanding the American '
forces. So far no hostilities have been '
reported. y
Secretary Daniels said today about <
500 marines have been landed. Admiral i
Caperton was asked today to confirm i
reporta^that^ jJteAys rebels bad i
?^ ' '* s 1 " *
? ",*? i
S j*W t,.,
f /
SOUTHERN VETERANS
THRONG BIRMINGHAM
Confederate Reunion Begins Tomorrow
in Alabama City and Vanguard
Has Arrived Already,
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.. May 15.?This
city was thronged with Confederate
veterans and visitors here to participate
in the twenty-sixth annual Confederate
reunion, which begins tomorrow.
The vanguard of the old soldiers
and visitors began to arrive yesterday,
and incoming regular and special trains
brought thousands of others.
Gen. Bennet H. Young of Louisville,
Ky., commander-in-chief of the United
Confederate Veterans, and his chief of
staff. Gen. W. E. Mickle of New Orleans,
are here, together with most of the departmental
commanders, sponsors, maids
and matrons of honor.
Birmingham was prepared today to
care for the largest number of visitors
in its history. Every effort has been
made to provide for the comfort of the
old soldiers. In addition to the thousands
of tents spread out over the wig
fair grounds hundreds of private homes
have been thrown open to them.
Numerous social functions will be
given in honor of the veterans and
visitors. The concluding feature of the
three-day encampment will be a big
ball.
Already a spirited contest is on among
Viil lOUS CHICS IW i^ayiui c lie* L jcai o icunion.
Memphis, Atlanta and Washington,
D. C., are in the race. A movement
already is on to name Montgomery,
"the cradle of the Confederacy," as the
city in which the last of the reunions
sftall be held, whether next year or
later. Citizens of that city are behind
the movement, which is an outgrowth
of the suggestion that the present reunion
may be the last to be held.
"NICHOLAS NICXLEBY" BURIED.
Original of Dickens' Character Laid
to Rest in Mobile.
MOBILE. Ala., May 15.?Georg* W.
Davies, who is said to have been
the original schoolmaster portrayed
in Charles Dickens' "Nicholas Nickelby,"
was buried here today. His body
reached here last night from Springfield,
Mo. He died there Thursday. He
was born in England January 12, 1835,
and was given his higher education at
Oxford University. He came to America
twenty-five years ago, settling in
Mobile. After moving to St. Louis, Mo.,
he returned here, only to leave later
for Springfield, Mo., in November, 1915.
He was a scholar and civil engineer by
profession.
It is said he acquired a close friendship
with Prince Edward of England,
rhrough the latter friendship he re?
i-.-J ir_
lcivcu iiviiui o it um xucco t ivivi ia. ne
was once accorded the honor of accompanying
Queen Victoria and family
to Efcypt.
FOE USE OF NAVAL MILITIA.
Five Armored Cruisers Probably
Available for Practice Cruises.
SAN DIEGO, Cal., May 15.?Five arnored
cruisers, the South Dakota, Colorado,
vfest Virginia, Maryland and
Pittsburgh, probably will be available
for the training of civilian sailors be:ween
August 15 and November 12,
Rear Admiral William Fullam, Pacific
eserve fleet commander, said today. j
Several hundred Californians are ex-1
pected to enroll for the series of war
naneuvers off the coast, which will
jtart August 15.
Mines Washed on Dutch Coast.
BERLIN, May 15, by wireless to Sayvine.?"It
is reported from Amsterdam
that April ninety mines were cast
jp on the Dutch coast," the Overseas
S'ews Agency says. "Of these fifty
were British, , three French, thirteen
German and the remainder of unknown
nationality. Since the beginning of the
war .1,014 mines have been found on
the Dutch coagt, including 535 Rrjtish,
M Frtrfly f1"! lSi-GsRsuw*
_L m - ' ?'
MIX-UP ON THE MAN (
TO NAMECANDIDATE
President Chooses Westcott to I
Make Speech and Jerseyites
Ask Fielder.
POLITICS TO LIVEN UP I
AT WHITE HOUSE SOON
To Ask Speaker Clark to Be Perma- [
nent Chairman of Democratic
National Convention.
An interesting situation has arisen in
connection with the nomination of President
Wilson at the next national conven- n
tion of the democratic party, as developed e
today by the visit made to the President ^
by John W. Westcott# of Camden, at present
attorney general of New Jersey. Mr. P
Westcott is the man who put the Presi- a
dent in nomination at the Baltimore con- 0
vention four years ago. Presumably because
of sentimental reasons, the Presi- e
dent recently wrote Mr. Westcott, asking s
him to repeat the Baltimore performance, c
and received a letter of acceptance. The ^
New Jersey delega%ie& to the national con
vention held a meeting without knowing 1
of the correspondence between the Presi- l
dent and Mr. Westcott. and. feeling that j
it was up to them to arrange for the
President's nomination, asked Gov. Fielder
of that state to make the nominating
speech. Gov. Fielder accepted as promptly 1
as Mr. Westcott had done. *
It was not long before the mix-up be- 1
came known and since then there have I
been efforts to untangle the affair. ?
The President, it"*'is understood, took 1
the position that it was up to the g
democratic delegation from his state
to fix up the matter, and Mr. Westcott
will be the eventual choice, it was said.
He called on the President today, and
is supposed to have spoken of the mat- j
ter, although he had other business to .
talk about. Mr. Westcott has recently 1
come out as a candidate for the demo- r
cratic nomination for the United States c
Senate against Senator Martine, who
. was expected to have no opposition r
within the party. It is declared that 1
Mr. Westcott is not an administration \
candidate, and is running on his own .
account. The administration forces 1
will play neutral in the senatorial oon- J
j test. <
"I am not looking for indorsements
in the Senate race." the New Jersey
candidate said, when spoken to on the <
subject. <
Mr. Rainey Sees the President. 1
Representative Rainey of Illinois con- j
ferred with the President today about 1
the bill for a tariff commission about .j
to be presented in the House. The bill ,
represents the President's ideas, it is
understood, and the democratic pro- I
gram, if it can be carried out, is to put i
the measure through before the national
convention of the party and
make the measure a platform pronunciation,
as an evidence of the intentions
of the democratic party in the
future to revise the tariff upon recommendations
of the commission. 3
The plan now is to offset the re- j
publican attacks upon the present tariff |
bill and its alleged weaknesses with a
promise to live up to a tariff revision ]
through a tariff commission. This will '
be one of the paramount planks of the ?
convention, it is said.
There . were -evidences of considerable
politics around the White House 1
today, even beyond the calls of Mr. ?
Westcott and Mr. Rainey. Senator Wil- 1
liams of Mississippi spent some time 1
with the President, discussing political '
matters of a "somewhat confidential
nature," he said. I ''
The prospects are that the White !
House will liven up as a political center
from now on, and that the President
will have to settle a number of
questions connected with the conven- .
tion and the campaign within the next ,
five or six weeks. Many of the planks J
of the democratic platform will be s
submitted to him before they are in- ?
serted and some of them will receive v
his approval or disapproval before the
convention meets.
Speaker for Permanent Chairman.
*
An important decision the President f
must make almost immediately after ^
the convention is the selection of a ^
chairman of the democratic national
committee to conduct the campaign. It c
has been taken for granted in many 4
directions that Fred Lynch, the na- c
tional committeeman from Minnesota, t
would be th,e chdice, inasmuch as he 0
is a strong' figure in the, committee e
and has much backing. On the other t
hand, however, there has arisen opposi- a
tion to him, and intimations that his ?
usefulness as chairman of the committee
may be affected by alleged contracts
for supplies to the allies in the 11
European war. The President will
naturally investigate the charges, and ?
will endeavor to pick a man not open "
to serious criticism. *"<
Former Gov. Martin H. Glynn of New JJ
York has been practically agreed upon "
as temporary chairman of the national .5,
convention, with the approval of the b
President, and Speaker Clark will be p
asked to become permanent chairman ,
of the convention, it is said. ^
XT. S. SUBMARINE DAMAGED. ?
CI
K-2 and Steamshin Arasron Collide G
? t]
Off Delaware Breakwater. ??
A collision off the Delaware break- "r
water between the tJnited States submarine
K-2 and the steamer Aragon, in
which neither was apparently seriously
injured, was reported to the Navy De- B
partment today. The K-2 had her bow- tl
cap sprung, but otherwise sustained
slight damage. Injury to the Aragon di
was not reported, but she and the K-2 tY
proceeded to New York. B
The K-2 was en route from Hampton
roads to New York when the collision **
occured off the Northeast End light- i P*
ship, about fourteen miles north of the
entrance to Delaware bay. r?
P>
STTPPEfc TIME BEFORE 7 P. M. a
. hi
Controller Hands Virginia Marshal a Is
Ruling on "Eats" for Trip. p!
Supper time, the controller of the
Treasury ruled today. Is before 7 p.m. ^
John G. Saunders. United States mar- th
shal at Richmond, Va.. wrote to, in- ui
quire if the government would pay for
his suppers on both tripe from Rich- .pi
mond to Norfolk beginning at 7 o'clock. h?
, Mr. Saunders explained that he had to is
leave his home before 6 o'clock to get aa
the boat, more than an hour before the to
usual time for his evening meal. ' er
Notwithstanding, the controller ruled ?
that Mr. Saunders would have to get br
his suppers before starting on trip tr.
or pay lor it out of hla own pocg^t- to
MINT IS GIVEN
PRELIMINARY TRIAL
rish Leader Charged With
High Treason Against the
King of England.
'ROSECUTOR TELLS STORY
OF WORK IN GERMANY
Alleged to Have Sought to Recruit
Brigade From Among Irish
Prisoners of War.
LONDON, May 15.?Sir Roger Casenent.
who only a few years ago achlevd
international fame for the services
i? rendered his government in the ex*
osure of the Putumayo rubber
I
Ltrocities, today faced the bar in an
rdfnary police court for a preliminary
xamination to determine whether he
should be held for trial on the charge
if high treason against the same govirnment
in connection with the rebelion
in Ireland. Beside Casement stood
Daniel Julian Bailey, who faced a simiar
charge.
Not in many years has so much popuar
interest been manifested .in a case
>efore the courts. This is due not only
o the prominence of Casement and
o speculation as to his ultimate fate.
>ut also because it has been expected
ividence would* be produced which
vould lay bare a widespread plot r?itilting
in the revolt.
Only 100 Are Admitted.
Long: before the hour set for the hearng
crowds began to gather outside the
Bow street court, hoping to gain adnittance,
or, at least, to have a glimpse
>f the man alleged to have been the
novrtig spirit in the conspiracy. There
was an unexpected number of applications
for seats in the little courtroom,
but admission was restricted to about
00 persons, including representatives
>f the press. "
Among the earliest arrivals in the
lourt was Sir Horace Plunkett of the
lepartment of agriculture in Ireland.
He took a seat near the magistrate. It
was understood Sir Horace was merely
1 spectator and would take no part in
the day's proceedings. A number of
relatives and friends of Casement, including
seven handsomely gowned ,
women, also reached court at an early
tiour and were provided with seats well
to the front.
Stage Setting Complete.
The stage was all set when the prin:ipal
was led into the court. Sir John
Dickinson, who presided, the lawyers
md the witnesses all having taken
:heir places before Casement arrived at
10:40 o'clock and entered the dock,
rhere was a ljush of expectancy as he
entered the room, and every face was
turned in his direction. Far from appearing
deeply disturbed at his position
Sir Roger maintined much of his charicteristic
complaisance. He smiled and
podded as he saw friends in the court oom.
With Sir Roger was Daniel Bailey,
in Irish soldier captured by the Gerrians
early in the war. He went from
Germany to Ireland in the submarine
vith Sir Koger, and was taken pris>ner
at Tralee.
As the examination proceeded Sir
floger showed in his movements some
flight indications of the nervous strain
inder which he was laboring. He paid
itrict attention to the proceedings,
lowever, and occasionally took notes,
vhich he handed to his counsel.
Form of the Charge.
In the ?prmal charge Casement Is
[escribed as of no occupation and no
Ixed abode. The charge against both
>ir Roger and Bailey reads: "For that
hey did, between the first day ot Noember,
1914, and on divers other ocasions
between that day and the 21st
lay of April, 1916, unlawfully, maliiously
and traitorously commit high
reason within and without the realm
>f England, in contempt of our sovreign
lord the king and his laws, to
he evil example of others in like case
nd contrary to the duty and allegiance
if the said defendants."
Casement is reported to have made a
>ng statement to the authorities and
: is believed that this statement will
onsiderably shorten the hearing beore
the magistrate. The police court
earing is merely a preliminary to the \
eal trial which will take place later
efore a panel of the judges of the
ighi court of justice._
Attorney General sir rreaericK zj.
mith. A. H. Bodkin and Travers Humhreys
appeared for the prosecution
nd Prof. J. H. Morgan and Artemus
ones for the defendants. Sir John
ickinson presided.
In opening the case for the crown
ie attorney general charged that
asement had conducted a systematic
impaign among the Irish prisoners in
ermany with the purpose of seducing
lem from their allegiance. Bailey, he
lid. had been seduced in this maner,
and had made a statement explainlg
Casement's actions in detail.
Bailey Native of Dublin.
According to the attorney general,
ailey was born in Dublin and joined
le Royal Irish Rifles in 1904.
He served with his regiment in Ina
and was honorably discharged. On
le outbreak of the European war
ailey was called out as a reservist
id sailed with the original expedlonary
force to France. He was taken
isoner in September, 1914.
The attorney general said Bailey had
dated how a large number of Irish
risoners had been collected from varijs
prisons in Germany and placed in
large camp at Limburg. There they
sard addresses by Casement, who tried
? inflame their minds against the Brith
government and persuade them to
Teak their oaths of allegiance and sup>rt
him- in his projected expedition to
eland.
The attorney general said Casement
ascribed himself as the organizer of
ie Irish volunteers, and impressed
;>on the Irish prisoners in Germany
tat everything was to be gained for
eland by Germany's winning the war.
lose prisoners who joined a brigade
j was attempting to form wpre promed
by Casement .the attorney general
iserted, that they would be sent
Berlin as guests of the German govnment.
In the event that Germfcny
on a sea battle he would land the
;igade in Ireland to defend that couple
against EngLand^and if.Ctoifciany
llillirs
