1,11
"J? :, ? .Jr ; r ? ? :
?
. ;M-.. ?.
v" ttjJ j m- '>>'
Fox's Comics
In The Times*Dispalch, Amuse j
Young and Old Every Day |
The Irrcpressible Ji$$s. Has Hh
Troubles This Morning
?
66th YEAR SSSiS&JSs , RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, MAY 15, 1916. -TEN PAGES. SSS?18* ? FAIR PRICE, TWO CENTS.
ARTILLERY DUELS
ON WESTERN FRONT
Germans Show Considerable Ac
tivity Against Sectors Held
by British.
EJECTED FROM TRENCHES
Asiatic Turkey Only Theater
Where Important Infantry Ac
tions Are Reported.
Asiatic Turkey is the only war
theater where Infantry actions of any
great importance are reported. In the
line in France and Belgium. and In the
Auxtro-ltalian theater there have been
many artillery engagements. On the
Russian front bombardments alone are
in progress.
The Russians and the Turku are con
tinuing their attacks and counter
attacks iti the region south of the
Black > Sea littoral, and also west of
the Persian border, where the Russians
are endeavoring to force their way
through the Mesopotamia region, with
Bagdad and a Junction with the British
forces farther south their evident ob
jectives.
To tho northwest of Erzerum. in the
Hope Mountains, Berlin reports the
repulse, with heavy losses, of th<> Rus
sian attempt to regain captured posi
tions
Farther south, to the oas? of Mosul,
the Russians are throwing a fresh force
into the attack directed against the
Bagdad region Here they have oc
cupied the Rnwant region, which lies
some 120 miles no.-th of Kasr-I-Shirln.
where they were last reported to be
operating This would place the Rus
sian troops at points about miles
north and 120 miles northeast of Bag
dad
It KG I ON OK /K .M OUT HO.MMK
I'M)Kit SKVKItE UOMUAIlI)MK>T
The, region of I.e Mort Homme,
northwest of Verdun, again is under
heavy bombardment, while east of the
Mouse an intermittent cannonading la
In proRresn
No infantry attacks have been at
tempted. The Germans succeeded in
entering British trenches in the
PIoeRstert wood, but were immediately
ejected, while British patrols captured
the German trenches south of La
Bassee Canal The Germans are show
ing considerable artillery activity
against numerous sectors held l>v the
British.
The Italians, according to the Aus
trian communication, launched vig
orous attacks against the Austrians on
the Doberdo Plateau, west of San Mar
tlno, but they were put down after
u severe struggle On the remainder
of this front thero have been only
bombardments.
Official advices received in London
are that another "eppelin airship ha^
been brought down off the west coast
of Norway.
GERMAN TIIKN< HEM OE.STIIOVKIJ
IIV TWO FRENCH MINES
PARIS. May II? Midnight official:
In the Argonne. at La Fille Morte. we
blew up two mines, which destroyed
German trenches.
In the Verdun region there was in
termittent cannonading on the several
sectors. No infantry actions occurred
The day was calm on the remainder
? t the front.
Afternoon official: South of Roye
we repulsed a surprise attack on one
of our trenches in the Loges \*o..d
In the region of Verdun no event
of importance occurred during the
niKht. with the exception of a violent
bombardment in the vicinity of Dead
Man's Hill Elsewhere on the front
the night pased calmly
TEN BRITISH SOLUIERS
CAPTURED IIA" GERMANS
BERLIN, (via Savville). May 11.?Of
ficial: Western front?one of our re
connoiterlng detachments entered the
enemy's first line, near the Ploeg
steert wood, noph of Armentieres.
blew up a sap and returned with ten
captured British soldiers. In the
region of Givenchy-en-Gohelle we ex
ploded some mines in the positions of
the British Fighting about the.
trench and in the crater ended success
fully for us.
West of the Meuse a French hand
grenade attack agaInst our positions
on hill No. .101 was repulsed. Ar
tillery fighting was active on both
sides of the river.
Eastern front?There were tin events
of particular importance.
Balkans?Enemy air attacks on Ml
rovtza and Dolran were driven off by
the fire of our antiaircraft puns
I.IVEI.V ARTILLERY
ACTIONS R EPORTER
ROME. May 14.?Official: Tn the
T'pper Adlge Valley some lively ar
tillery actions have occurred. These
wore especially intense In the. Col dl
Lanza zone. We have repulsed at
tacks on Cukla and on the Arso
Heights above Lucinico. On the Car so
plateau the fire of our artillery caused
explosions within the Austrian lines
near San Mnrtlno and dispersed some
marching columns near Devotaki and
fippacchiosella.
AI STRIA.\S rkpi i.sk
ITALIAN ATTACK
VIENNA, May H? Official: Italian
front?on the Doberdo plateau west
or" San Marrlno a violent attack by
the Italians during the night with
hand grenade's was repulsed after a
tenacious struggle. On the remainder
of the front there, was little activity.
GERMANS EJECTED
FROM nniTISH TRENCHES
LONDON, May 14.?The British of
ficial statement on the campaign in
France and Belgium reads:
"Last (Saturday) night, after a
(Continued on Scrond"~Paprf>r)
ALL AnOARO FOB BIRMINGHAM
via SOUTHERN^ RAILWAY. >14.05 round
trip. May 15 to 17.
I
Big Supply Bill
Not Yet Acted On
Congress, at Present Pd ce, Will
Be in Session When Sep
tember Comes.
? Times-Dispatch.]
WASHINGTON. May 14.?Congress.
I ir it maintains its present legislatlv
pace, will hc -on the Job" when Sep
tember rolls around. Of the thirteen
I Idg supply 111 s, only five have passed
I both branches of Congress. The House
j has passed two others?agricultural
I appropriations and rivers and harbors
appropriations. The latter m now
{pending in the Senate. Th?* House is
.? et to pass the sundry civil appropria
tions. tlie army appropriation, the na
val appropriation, the fortifications ap
piopriatlons, the diplomatic and consu
lar appropriations and the general de
ft ciency appropriations.
These big supply bills, together with
J th new revenue measures, will consume
j ^he best part of the coming summer
I unless drastic rules, limiting debate,
j and niglu sessions are applied to both
; branches of Congress. A drastic rule,
j limiting dr-batc. Is possible in the House
j but not in the Senate.
J The House expects to take up and
J pass this week the fortifications ap
< propriatlon bill, carrying money for the
j construction of the fort at Cape Henry.
jThia bill has been out of the. com
jmitt#>r for a month, but there has been
! 1,0 opportunity to bring it up for con
I federation. The Senate on Monday will
.consider the Kublee nomination for the
I Kederal Trade Commission. Mr. Rubles
j has never been confirmed by the Sen
j ate. Senator Galllnger is opposing him.
i The oil-leasing bill will afterwards be
I considered.
Business in both branches Is drat;
^ giriK along in a desultory fashion.
WILSONS AT WILLIAMSBURG
1'rri.lilcnl and I'nrly Continue Thrlr
\ l?ii to VlrKlnlit I'oliito Itlrh
In Hlnlurv.
NEWPORT NEWS, Y.V, May II ?
, Pre.-ident Wil?on brought his week
j end visit to this oily to an end to
j niKht, and left on board the naval
j yacht Mayflower for Washington,
where he is due to arrive early to
I morrow. His physical condition has
i been much improved by the outing am!
by the temporary relief froin h'.s re
cent work on foreiRn problems.
During the early morning to-day the
President and Mrs. Wilson saw at close
range the maneuvers of flying boats
from the aeronautical school here,
which circled over the Mayflower and
gilded about her on the water. About
R o'clock the party transferred to the
naval yacht Sylph, and lefi immediate
ly for another cruise up the James
liiver to visit historic spots not in
cluded in the trip up the river yester
day.
: \\ hen the Sj Ipli reached Jamestown
j the President and his party went
; ashore. and, entering automobiles.
: were driven t?? Williamsburg. Hore
' they visited famous Rrutun Parish
j Church and other spots so intimately
! connected with Colonial history. Wil
j Haiti and Mary students greeted the
i President enthusiastically, but when
they asked for a speech, he declined,
saying that he u as the xmi of a clergv
inati. and could not speak on Sunday.
The Sylph returned to Newport News
at S o'clock this afternoon, and the
presidential party again boarded the
Mayflower, the transfer beiup observed
with eager intent by the crews of the
Appam. the British passenger steamer
? brought here by a German prize crew,
I and several other foreign vessels. A
I few minutes later the Mayflower
I weighed anchor and steamed away for
j Washington, passing several battle
| ships in Hampton Koads.
DANIELS ON PREPAREDNESS
j Am I.one nn Xutloun Kxalt I*tower,
I nlted Stolen Mawt Be Ready
to Fight for Heritnge.
j NEW ^ORK, May 14.?As long as
: nations exalt power, the United States
. must be ready to preserve that for
j which our forefathers fought. Secre
tary of the Navy Daniels declared in
an address on national preparedness
. to-night.
Congress will soon make a larger
appropriation for the navy than at any
lime in the history of the navy, the
secretary s:ild. He expressed the be
lief that It would remain for the
, United States to find a way to end the
j war throughout the world.
I do not pretend to be wise enough
to know how this will be brought
about." he said, "hu I hope that when
this great struggle is ended, this re
public will have representatives at an
i international conference, which will
propose that nations flnd a way to set
j tie disputes without recourse to
I swords."
NATIONS MAY PROTEST
Denmark. Sweden and Norway Ton
template Joint Action on England'*
Seizure of Mull*.
BERLIN (via Sayville), May 14.?Joint
action by Denmark, Sweden and Nor
way on the question of mail seizures
by the English is under consideration,
according to a Copenhagen dispatch to
the Transocean News Bureau. This
step probably was brought abou4 by
the British refusal to discontinue the
practice of interfering with mails bo
tween the United States and the Scan
dinavian countries.
CHASING ZEPPELIN
Three tlrltlnli Destroyer* I'lirniie Gor
man Aircraft, lleyond Control
olT Norway.
[Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch 1
COPENHAGEN, May M.-a Zeppelin,
out of control, has been observed or.
the west coast of Norway. Throo Bri
tish destroyers were pursuing It. The
airship "descended to a height of mo
feet and disappeared In a fog. it is
presumed that it was wreckcd.
Where Shells From Great Guns Are Falling
i* rv&zi y%:.> y^kxt-> - *vrv
Verdun to-duy a cilv of ruins. Tills photograph was taken during a lull in the bombardment. Till' city is a mass of wreckage and ruins, and
hardly a house in the rity remains untouched. In the middle background is the Cathedral, which has been considerably damaged by (.criimn shells.
This old pile dates back to the eleventh and twelfth centuries, and has withstood complete demolition by the (ierinau besiegers.
Derision 1?? Withdraw Resignation
Causes Demonstration at First
Baptist. Church.
? EX T H L SI A S.M IS 1 X HO 1 X DED
( J
1 Members of Flock Give Minister As- i
i suranees of Their Support and Co
Operation, and He Responds to:
Appeal Xot to Give Up Work.
i At urgent behest of his < ongr*'
j gallon ar/l of members of the Uaptist
, Church in general in the citv and
? throughout the State, ftev. George XV.
| McDanicl. l?. D.. pastor of the First j
? Baptist Church. vestorday morninn1
* I
j formalK withdrew* his resignation andJ
. thereby brought satisfaction t*> nnc of,
j the largest featherings that have as
, sembled within the church (loots. i
| So enthusiastic did the congregation j
, become at the reading of the with-j
| drawn: of the resignation that its;
; members applauded with voice atid,
; hand. It was certainly the first time:
j in the I":i vr Baptist Church fh.it i
! staid congregation was moved t<> give'
I voice and motion to its feeling.
! COXt.UKf.ATlON ASSt ltKS
MIMSTKIt OK Sl.lM'OllT!
Dr. McDaniel was caused to change!
| his nund by an agreement among his1
? congregation to stand in line with his
I views and to move forward to an en-!
largement of the church's work and to!
aid in doing those tilings which he has|
suggested. in ills message of resig-!
nation Dr. McDanicl had regretfully)
? called attention to the fact that the1
I work of the church was not receiving!
the spiritual, moral and financial sup
port it demanded. He asked, therefore,
J to he relieved, believing that some
j other pastor might so awaken the con
' gregatlon as to bring about the results
] he desired while lie himself could not
i arouse a proper spirit of aggression and j
J achievement.
That Pr. McDaniel will receive all
j the support he desires was denoted
in the unanimous action of the con
jgregation in accepting the withdrawal
I of his resignation and in the general j
! avowal that there would always be
J response to his efforts.
! XVITIimtAXVS ItKSKi X ATI OX
IX IMIEPA It 101S STATKM BXT
j One member of the congregation
I promised, in the body of the church, to
! establish and support a seminary In
' China, and that member's wife gave
j promise to support n missionary lti
; Africa. One of the things most earn
estly sought by Dr. McDaniel was a
I more generous support of foreign mis
I sions. and when the information of
j theso two promises was brought to him
I he was profoundly touched.
' The message of withdrawal of the j
; resignation was conveyed to the church |
ion paper. After the morning services]
; Dr. McOaniel handed his statement to ?
j D. S. McCarthy, chairman of the board
! of deacons, and retired. Mr. McCarthy
1 read tlio statement to the congregation,
j and there was immediate and appre
j ciative response. , A rising vote was
| taken, and the whole church body arose I
] to vote for the retention of the pas
I tor, and some became so enthusiastic
Ins to express themselves by vociferous!
applause. News of the action of the I
congregation was conveyed to Dr. Mc- !
Daniel by one of the deacons, and the'
pastor, who has led the First Raptist
Church for nearly a dozen years, was
moved to a deep and grateful apprecia
tion.
j "Tt isn't the building that makes the j
(Continued on Second Page.)
<i()IN(i TO HJHMlMilfA.M ItKI NION .' I
SOUTHERN R All,WAY Official Itoufc. Knr '
$14.6r. round irlj>. Mav 13 to 17. Sto|.. I
overs. ArrariRo Pullimm reservations now.
Phono MuJlsi'ii -12. j
Asquith Seeking Best
Method for Adjusting
Present Irish Crisis
Trying toDecideWhether to
Return to Former System
or Adopt Change Fa
vored by People.
DL*BLIX, May 14.?Martial Jaw orders
in forcc here to-day were modified so
that all persons may now come and bo
as they wish between the hours of 4
in the morning and midnight. During
the remaining four hours they must
keep within doors. It is generally
understood that Premier Asquith is re
sponsible* for this relaxation.
Mr. Asquith's chief occupation since
his arrival in Dublin has consisted of
seeking a method for the adjustment
of thi: Irish crisis and in ascertaining
whether it would he advisable to return
to the former system of government
or adopt a change of rule more in ac
cordance with the wishes of the people.
The Premier has also given some at
tention to minor factors having to do
with the disposal of the remaining
rebel prisoners and compensation for
the material damage done, in Dublin.
Neither of these questions has been
solved, but Mr. Asquith had an op
portunity to question a number of
rebels in the detention barracks, and
to-day he again visited the ruins of
buildings destroyed in the various sec
tions of the city.
N'ationalist and Unionist circles ani
matedly discussed tentative sugges
tions respecting the future govern
ment of the country, with hope, but
without certainty, that a change for
the belter would be brought about.
Mr. Asquith's presence here has lent
color to the belief that the Prime
Minister has some project in mind, and
that his study of conditions on the
spot will help him formulate a definite
plan to place before Parliament.
The view widely prevails that Mr.
Asquith will propose to incorporate the
N'ationalist and Unionist forces of
armed volunteers into the auxiliary
troops of the imperial army, and thus
avoid the admittedly perilous prob
lem of disarming everybody in Ire
land not belonging to the. recognized
military organizations. At the same
time, sentiment grows apace in favor
of a real Irish executive council,
formed of Irishmen entirely conversant
with the people and their aspirations
and needs.
All the newspapers, whatever their
policies, express the desire that the
best should be made out of the situa
tion, and call for concessions by th?
extremists of both sides, who, they
declare, do not represent the true feel
ings of the Irish people.
The vast majority of irishmen, in
conversing on the present position,
avoid any wild talk and appear anxious
to appease the differences existing be
tween the various parties by agreeing
on any plan which offers a fair ihanco
of a stable government in which all
could have confidence.
Deep sorrow prevails among the
people of Dublin, many o whom lost
relatives either among the. rebel troops
during the lighting or among the
civilians who suffered death by stray
shots. Many reports are current con
cerning the alleged harshness of the
troops, but, so far as can be learned,
these appear to have arisen from ex
aggerated stories pas. ing from mouth
to mOuth.
HAS MAX Y NAM HOW KSC'.l PICS
l.\ 'I'll 10 HUSH OAl'ITA Ij
XKW YORK. May M.?Dr. Cecil D.
McAdam. of Melh</irne, Australia, who
was attached to the ltoj.il Medical
Corps of the. British army during tho
Jallipoli camitnlgn, and who was be
sieged in the Shelbourne Hotel, in
Dublin. Ire., during ihe recent rebel
lion there, arrived here to-day on the ,
steamship Philadelphia from Liverpool. J
He declared he had more narrow es- ?
capes in Hie Irish capital during the ?
short time he was there than in all j
the Gallipoli campaign.
Dr. M< Adam said he saw Countess :
Markievicz, attired in man's clothing'j
and wearing a brace <>f revolvers, lead
ing the Irish rebels. ile was Informed,
he added, that she had shot six of
her followers because. they refused to!
obey lier orders.
"There was a monastery near the j
hotel." said Dr MeAdluii, "where many
of the wounded were taken. I as
sisted other physicians iti tho work)
there. We were exposed almost eon- ;
tinuously to shell tire, while the tight- :
inn in the streets was at it.-: height.")
Dr. Mc Adams said he saw from the.
Hhelbourne the shelling of the Lib- :
erty Hall. Nearly all of the windows (
in the hotel, he asserted, bore evidence j
of gunfire.
Dr. Mi-Adam will remain in New j
York a few days and then leave for I
his home in Australia.
SIH It<)<? l-l11 tWSK.MKNT
llKCKIVKS Til It HE FltllvVDs!
LONDON", May 14.?According to |
i Reynold's Weekly, Sir Roger Casement .
I received three friends in the London j
' Tower yesterday and discussed his i
l case with them for nearly nn hour,
i Sir Roger is in much better health than |
? n fortnight ago. He has been per- j
, mitted to read and has taken regular
I exercise.
It is understood that the case of!
i the prosecution against Sir Roger will !
| last four or five days. The prisoner 1
will he conveyed secretly to the Police
' Court, and there will he no opportunity ,
? of seeing him, as there are nceommo- ;
i daiions for only sixty spectators.
ASQl ITU IS KXl'KCTKI) !
TO VISIT lilCI.I-'AST j
IJKf.KAST. May 14.? It is said that]
Premier Asquith will visit Belfast on i
Monday.
Ilttsll SYMPATHIZERS
(OIIMK.M) ItlOSOM TIO.V '
WASH INCJTON, May 14.?Severavj
thousand sympathizers with the Irish
revolutionists held a mass-meeting here
to-night and adopted a resolution com
mending the Irish volunteers for their
part in the recent uprising, urging i
| Americans to support the revolution,;
[and charging Itritish influences with a
campaign of "Anglo-Saxonism" in the i
United States.
Jeremiah O'Leary. of New York,
president of the American Truth So
ciety. compared the Irish rebellion with)
the American Revolution.
NINETY MINES ON COAST
Slnre \\ nr Itegan, AniMterdam Heiiort*.
l.Oll Have < ome Axliore
In llollnud.
(.Special Cable to Tlie Times-Dispatch.1'
ltKRLIN, Mav 11 ? (via Sayville).?A i
dispatch from Amsterdam says that 1
during the month of Ajiril, ninety mines |
drifted tip on the Dutch coast. Of these I
f.fty were British, three were French,
thirteen German and twenty-four of
unestablishcd nut tonality.
Since the beginning of the war, con
tinues the dispatch. 1,(>14 mines hive
landed on the Dutch coast, of which
r.3,"? were British, sixty-one French, lf?:>
German, and 2-1 of undetermined na
[ tionality.
SCOTT TO CUE DETAILED
REPORT OF CONFERENCE
W ashing;! on OlTlrlals Expert to Hear
Doflnlioly What C'urniiizn
Proposes to Do.
MIST SHOW UK TAX STOP HA IDS
Lansing \\ in Have Lun^ Discussion
With Army Chief of Stair Before
Hesumiug Discussions With Arrc
?loiulo on Status <?f V. S. Troops.
.May I 4.?Major-Gen
ei.il Scott, chief of staff of the army,
is (Uic here to-morrow with a detailed
report of his discussions at K1 Paso
with <ieneral Obregon. General Scott
is ??xp.iMcd to give Secretary Baker
and odu :r.ls of the Stat?> I 'apartment
definite information as to what Gen
era! Carrunza propose;: to do towards
demonstrating his ability to stop brig
andage along the international lino.
iteports of Carranzu troop movements
indicate that the Carranza government
intends to begin activity In the region
of l.toi|?iillas, and in tin- territory aban
doned by General Pershing's troops to
crush out the bandit bands.
Secretary hanging expects to have
a long discussion with General Scott
before he prepares to resume discus
sions of the status of tho American
troops in Mexico with ICllseo Arrodondo,
Mexican ambassador-designate, lie px
pe<!ts to learn whether it was the
Mexican Minister of War or Carranza
himself that prevented the successful
termination of the conference at Et
I'a so.
COXFICltttXCB IM'Z/.IJXC
TO W.lSlllX(iT(?\ OFPiriALjl
This conference has been a puzzling
one to officials here. Special Agent
Uodgers at Mexico City reported that
the de facto government had officially
announced the success of the border
negotiations. This was taken to mean
that Carranza had approved the plan.
Then came the statement by the con
ferees themselves that they had been
unable to reach a definite agreement.
While this report was en route to
Washington, Mr. Arredondo called upon
Secretary Lansing to state that his
advices from Mexico City indicated that
the original agreement had been ap
proved.
Mr. Obregon was still without in
structions from General Carranr.a to
right in regard to reopening diplo
matic negotiations regarding the bor
der situation.
The War and State Departments re
ceived no important messages to-nisrht
concerning the Mexican situation.
TRANSCONTINENTAL FLIGHT
Prize* Amount in k fit SIOO.UOO Will tie
Clveii to IiiiiiK-DlHinncp
A viators.
XRW VOHK, May H?A transcon
tinental aeroplane competition, for
which prizes amounting to $100,000
probably will be offered, has been de
cided on by the Aero flub of America,
it was announced to-night. The plan,
which has for its object, it was stated,
the development of the aerial defense
of the country, was suggested by Halph
Pulitzer, of this city, who has do
nated a trophy for annual competition.
In a letter to ihe club. Mr. Pulitzer
declared that "it seems the irony of
fate that the country of l.angley, the
Wrights. Curt Iks and other pioneers
who may have been said to have given
to the world wings, lags last where it
ought to be first."
The route for the (li^ht and the date
will ho announced later.
ItKDl'CKI) HA It K TO ASI1EVIM.K, X. C.
Ai 1-ouitt Southern Ba|>ii.<t Convention. $11.SO
round I rip vlit Stll'TIIKRN RAll.WAY. Mu>
J.5 io l?. Through MccpittK cars l> uvc Ktoh
inonil tl 1'. At. Tuesday, Muy 10.
\
FUNSTON AT WORK
ON NEW PLAN FOR
Outlines to His Staff Redis
tribution of Ameri
can Forces.
HAS ALMOST 50.000 MEN
UNDER DIRECT CONTROL
Changes. He Believes, Will Guar
antee Protection of U. S. Citi
zens From Raiders.
iMFXICA.VS PURSUING BANDITS
Fit list on Orders Investigation of Sus
picious Fires nt Fori
Bliss.
SAN* ANTONIO. TEXAS, May 14.?
Major-Genera 1 Funston brpan to-day
the consideration of n plan for the
border patrol. Having under his direct
control almost r-O.O'to men, he outlined
to h:? staff a redistribution of fortes
that he believed would guarantee the
protection of American residents from
j Mexican raiders.
! Already forces at border station? liave
| been strengthened, and It wns Indicated
| .to-day that before the end of the week
! the greater part of the regular troops
j and militia that have been sent into
three border States would he prepared
I and In position for quick service along
! the International line.
j Each of the patrol districts will be in
charge of a general officcr. The dis
trict commanders will Include Briga
dier-General ,Tan>es Parker, command
ing the First Cavalry Brigade; Briga
dier-General William A. Mann, com
mandiug the Second Brigade, at La
redo. Texas, find Brigadier-General H.
' A. Greene, who has been ordered to
' report at headquarters here, from Fort
Leavenwort h.
NO ADDITION Ali Til OOPS
TO 1111 SENT TO SIDIiEV
I It Is improbable that more troops will
i be sent to Colonel Sibley, in charge of
' the little expedition that crossed into
J Mexico near Boqulllas as a result of
I the raid at Glenn Springs and Boqulllas
I a week nco. Four troops of cavalry
| sii:d n machine ruii detachment are now
! operating close to the line, scouting
through a limited territory south of
t.lie border, but there hns not been any*
intention of sending forward at that'
point a punitive expedition that would
| compare In siaw to that of General Per
ishing in the Pfnte of Chihuahua. Tf
the cavalry that is operating south of
Boqulllas fails to locate any bandits
within a few days. Its return to sta
tions north of the lino Is probable.
Army officials here are deeply in
terested in the efforts the Mexican
troops were reported to be making to
run down the bandits who raided the
Hip Bend district, and who held as a
prisoner .(esse Decmer, an American
storekeeper. Tt Is regarded here as
not Impossible thai the Mexican
! troops may cut off the retreat of the
(bandits towards the interior and force
them back within reach of Colonel Sib
ley's cavalry.
Reports from General Pershing to
day were said to deal with routine
matters only. His entire column of
more than 14.tM0 men is now almost
u compact unit.
With the exception of the attempt to
| destroy a part of the buildings at Fort
I Bliss last night, no unusual incidents
j were reported to general headquarters
! to-day. General Boll in his report
| expressed the. opinion that the tires
| were of incendiary origin.
| MII.ITIA MOI1IM5BATION
PRACriCALLY COMPLETED
With the exception of the Thirtieth
; and Third Infantry, one battalion of
j the Third Field Artillery and one com
pany of Coast Artillery, all the addl
! tional troops ordered to report to Gen
eral Funston have arrived. Four of
the eleven companies of Coast Artll
| ler.v brought here have been sent to
, border stations. The remainder have
! been mobilized at Fort Sam Houston.
' The militia mobilization at Douglas,
j Columbus and here was completed to
i day.
The mustering into the regular army
establishment of the militiamen will
! be begun on Tuesday. Medical of
i ticers who have been examining the
men. estimated to-day that the per
j rentage of those who would be re
jected almost was negligible. A
I slightly greater percentage of those
| who do not care tc. be sworn in "for
the term of their enlistment" is ex
pected, but Major-General Stevenson,
adjutant of the brigade, said that in
vestigation Indicated that at least 85
. per cent of the guardsmen would take
tin* oath without hesitation.
It is not expected that any of the
militia will bo placed in stations of
grout responsibility for some time, pos
sibly for weeks. In the meantime, the
J work of drilling them and hardening
them will be conscientiously looked
after. Light work was commenced to
j day.
ION (il A It D A I.O N<? IJOII I) EH
AHA INST INCENDIARIES
Kb 1\\Ho. TEX., May 14.?Army post?
and stations along the border were on
their guard against incendiaries to-day
as a result of two lires last night at
I Fort Bliss, where tlames of unknown
\ origin destroyed a storehouse, three
! cavalry stables, three horses and some
j tents.
Army olllcers express the opinion
: that an lnv? 1 Mgatlon will disclose that
the fires could not be of spontaneous
or accidental origin. It was said tlyjrt
there was no attempt on the ammuni
tion-house. The storehouse. where th?
(list fire occurred, contained some ma
chine guns.
Two other tires of recent occurrence
