ATHER FORECAST.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
and 4Q-rnorrow; moderate
east winds.
Yesterday, 60; lowest, 49.
ih) marine tenoits on page 1 1,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 258.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MAY 15, 1916.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Copyright, 1MB, bv the Sun Printing nmt Publishing Association.
RaitTtoMPp.
"TLW-kTi i'ilfrM" 3 'V1
PLANS MADE
TO ELIMINATE
HUGHES BOOM
Managers of Burton and
Sherman Confer on Way
to Kill 3Iov(
DELEGATES FOR ROOT
SOUGHT IN THE WEST
Washington', May 14. At ft confer-
tnce to-day between Ornnvllle MooneV,
manager for Theodore K. Hurton of i
I Ohio, and Walter A. Hoscnfleld and Kd-
want J. Brundage. spokesman for Sena
tor Lawrence Sherman of Illinois, waya
iind means wer considered to put a
quietus on the movement to nominate
Associate Justice Hughes as the Itepub-
hean Presidential candidate.
It I understood that representatives
ef Senator John W. Weeks, Massachu
Mtts, also took part In the conference.
The "favorite eon" group of candidates
I which Include Messrs. Hurton, Slier
man, Weeks, Fairbanks and Cummins,
arc said to have pooled their Interests
lit, an .ml.uvKr in html the nomination
for one or the ne.
The r first endeavor will be to under
mine the Hughes boom, which, Becom
ing to the "favorite son managers, lias
made great headway within the past
lew WtCKH. '
Of the 985 delegates who will have
eats Hi the lletiuwican national tonven-
Hon S93 Have Been cnostn. mi un
ite oi me reiums in- tu tnrse ueie-
cates will go to i. nicago wmioui in-
iruct on for any candidates. Approxl-
iiately CSU have been Instiucted ami or
ne$e -is are oiviueu iiiiiuiik .ties-ts.
Hurton. Sherman. rairimin. ami win-
ii".
The claim Is made b Hie Wreli
Hungers that the Massachusetts Sen
ior will no l ni icui vines on im-
IM oal ol. u mete nguir are cui 1
I Hie favorite sons will go Into the!
,.. I ..j
i i vei lion nieu-i it-.ni in it'iniwi. .in
n aciu.li tliujoiiiy is i.. ..
tion In liel I'milriil
II, combining with Senator l.a I'oli
lie. who has twenty-five delegates, an
Coleman dil I 'out. who bus sl tllosr
.in Iiclawaic ami i:iihil Itool. will
II get most of the delegates fiom Ne
ork and a number from the South, tl
f.noille Min. would lie 111 a -.iosiiiu
head oft Mr Hughes, at least for
im.
So far ns can ba learned. howc
he "faxoriti: son." liaxe inane no eoi,
ui.itlou with the Hoot fonts, nor Im
m ,.la fltl..S III I..1 I'VlUt'
ml du 1'ont so far as can be leain
l'"or the present they are sabl to
.oollng tlielr Interests solely lor
lellCUl Ol IIIC live i.uiti!n.i!-. i."-
s the "allies" did In 1!U. Ulslit yel
the "allies" tried to head ofT
U II. a I. I 11, itllKil ...ilium.'-.-
ear aie directing their energies
ilop" the inoxeiiient for Associate
ii e I lunhea If possible.
.lust what conclusions were n.'
to-day's conference was not dli-eli
he confere, s In behalf of Messre.
on and Shiriuan talked at great le
I m w e it iiiinu in run -n b ....-. ...... .
t hat lb" Sherman emissaries vii .
i i I,,.,-.. 1.....11 jben.lJ.
I
i-.i.ll jl,...! f.n. sieimtiir Weeks II i;ill""
i 111 o,l ts At III oti iii,ent.. IUI Itll
nienibets of the group In the couviin
e iv i. ne 1 i i wivv
Information itceixeii m aslilin
to-day niuii', nes mat ine nooi
hii zoo m m lor oeieK'iies in .uiiif "
. I.. l M ri
Mid oilier .Not thwtstern Slates.
raze came iroio i i am inav e-
scntatlxe John Mwlglil, who Is Ifig
out for the Hoot ntereMH. nail 'u
ltrthat city for a coiueiencc witn
Ucan le.ideis.
sli l'Hor Itool.
While the tweut.x.foui- ilelegalifnn
XI liniesiit.'i ale nominally titeill 10
b.ninli,P I 111., till t.U It is Iftlfttt'll at ,
lensi nix ol' them sect ellv favor .X Wot, I
I in llie t i-st and second nallots t-UI
ncsou oeiesaies win .iick io .tiwoi
inlns. but Mr. Hoot Is certain Imd
somu oi uieni li a tnirii vote is
A good deal of Root senllmeiitlped
ooi mi .vi nutsoia in ior to it e nmoi-i
niary ami several leaders theiefgly
urged Mr. Hoot lo have his naif on i
tile ballot. Ho refused. The tfwas
tvageil between Mr. Cummins aifury
1. Hstabrook of New- Yoik, I the
Iowa Senator won. Among the fates
chosen In Minnesota are a n" of
regiilais who are friendly to JJoot.
It Is taken for granted lu-ie.ir.
Dwlght went to St. Paul to colwith
llie men friendly to Mr. Hoot
In a statement made publlojUoot
headquarters, the claim is lathat
Hoot entlment Is growing, nlv In
the South. The statement tuvlart:
"Conlldentinl reports lecelv tne
Root managers show that the Vnrk
statesman will lecelvo on theM bal
lot part of the votes fromftlula,
N'orHi Caiolinn, Tennessee, wlppi,
I.uul'laiia, (Jcorgla, Aikati and
riorlda. Ilepoiis also lndlcaBt the
I i- f- In the South away fiouPevelt
has lieuiiu and is headed towSont."
WlllUm .1, Calhoun of l, ex-
Mlnlster to China, will protrtl New
Y'irk to-morrow- with WalletBosen
nld and Kdward J. lirunduiAn ef
fo'i to stir up Interest t)0i tlie
Sieim.iu Presldenllul boom Cl
h mn anneals to bo contlilenfl Slier
nun Is going lo cut up hUhlm the
'li uso convention.
Sherman tlmim It
' Illinois In very much iJest In
Ii support of Sherman," T. Cal
iojii. "While Senator SlB Is a
rlti man, wbo never hefl to ex-
iss h.s convictions, hi hi Ukell
i i an agonistic position Bt any
.ir.ijldate for the PiesldeiBomlnii-
ion, and therefore we rhat he
'illl be rrgarded In a mostMMy way
fiom all sides when the crBuoment
nrrK-es."
To which Mr, lbn.eiiili.iNl
"If tho people of the :M not al-
K.oly know It, It Is lime -und out
int the .Sherman mow-mi he. real
Pun
Tho Hepubllfiin i.tn,mimlttee
"HI meet 111 Chicago on '' June
I to hear rontesteH rlei.Bases In
connection with the tnieiB'lie eon
xtntlon Less than nxiB'Hcs re
CoHfhlurrl oil '(I
nOHT CAUSES MOVIE PANIC.
Crowd Fran, Tlii'atrr In Altrr and
Htithr n lrt Out.
A fight In a moving picture theatre
at 79 Flm n venue Inst night rawed a
pnnlo among the patron. Soiiichodv on
the, outride, seeing tlit' crowd rush irotn
tho place, turned In h tire alarm nnd In u
low iirdnute. tho str.sH was cluttered
with tiro engine, honk und ladder hhih
peinlea, tiro pt.trol., battalion chiefs ami
many excited pet sons.
When Joseph Kaufman, proprietor of
the place, .11k. overecl that there wax Im
lire he ordered hi band led pi the street
to play, atlvci Using tli.it the show, would
continue.
The poll.'e say Hint the trouble Varied
when Dora Maslnk of i 04 Kant Tclftli
street Rot Into an altercation aliout a
peat, A Wi ingle ensued and some one
yelled "fight," which was. mistaken for
"lire," Tln-n the crowd stampeded for
the eloot. No one was hurt, but IV.ru
Maslnk wns an pitted,
ZEIPELDf REPORTED SUNK.
Hrrn kit t'nnsl of orn I'lirsiietl
by Warship.
in ml Vab'e lletpatrl, to Till: Ms
CnitNHAOK.v, via London. May 11.
The .nlh ncwspnpeis say It Is believed
thitli Zeppelin wu aiink oiT tho west
coaaj of Norway on Krldny last.
Aflvppelln wos seen eaily in the moiri
lnhree miles on" the Island of I'ldje,
till- lulle northwest of Hergeu. travel
Hi) J toward the southwest. It suddenly
tuned northwaid and n llolllla of war
sh, atniarwitly desho.ieii., soon fol
lovil at great ired.
llshlng boat over which the Ztiipelln
ed reiiorts that the dirigible do
dl obliquely, apnarentlv out of con-
irl unll! within a hundred fret of the
wjer, when It dis.ippe.ired In the fog.
Tf
II'IKTlllen supposed that the Zep-
. J
llln
h.iil iK-en damaged b.v guntlie.
did not see the dirigible lnk. but
I
hnnc that It did so,
iRMANY MUST ASK
'EACE, POINCARE SAYS
eutons Part Not to Offer
t'liii. hut to Siiliinil to
Allies. e Arirue.
was. May 1 1. IVesuleiu l'o.i.care. I
iking to-,lay befote an audience of.iiuat men hauls, gieat statesmen, great
irralne refugees at Ibe Molltor g.ir
on si Nancy, replied to the sugges
on for eaee in the Herman note to the
'idled S.ati.s.
"Craiice does not want (leiuiaiij to
mlJr pe.ne." he s.i.d. "inn wants her
dversniy to osK for prai-e "
er.uicr will not expos,- lur i-ons to
e dangers of new aggressions. The
i-ntial implies, haunted by temorne
r li.nlug brought on the war and
JteiTllled b.v the Indignation and hat nil
It hey hae stirred up In mankind, are
trying to-day to make the world be
lieve that tlie Allies alone ale lesjioiibi-
.iic for the iitolongatlon of hostllttiu-. a i
dull Iroiiv whl-li will ibcele no one. I
".Neither directly nor Indirectly have
out enemies olTeted us peace. Hut we
do not want them to offer It to us; we
want them to ask It of us. We do not
want to submit to their conditions; we
want to InipoM- ours on them. We do
not want a peace which would have Im
perial lieriu.iny with the power to te-
commence tlie war anil ke, p lairoiie
eternally menaced. We want peace
which re-elM-s from resionsl human
lights seilous guarantees of equilibrium
and stability.
I "So long as that peace Is '...t as.
stired to us, ,n long as nui enemies will
not recognl7e themselves as vaiiiiulshed,
we will not cease to tUht '
I'reldent I'oincare told the tefugeew that
1 they were only a small number of the vic-
."' V"
and tbcre wa not
department that
-iicn. i ins
thousands. Hvery-
whete they were waiting with eahn
ctnilldence for the hour of ilellviiance.
GERMAN APOLOGY TO SPAIN.
Xiloills Torpedoliitt niHet To
Coillliensate I'limllles of Victims.
xpfi-i'il Cable e;si(c n Tnr Sis.
Maiikiii, via lindon. Jlay H -C.er-many
has Informed the Spanish Hovern
meni that the Hrltlsh Channel boat
Sussex was torpedoed b.v a Herman siib--iiaiine,
whose commander. It Is ex
plained in the note, It-ally believed she
was a warship.
liernianc promises to co.npensale the
r.ittu .-,f Un.mish eliliens Inst In tin. .
attack on the Su-sscx and apologues for
the attack. .
I
,$72,000 A MONTH FOR SHIP, j
I
High I'rler Pnld In ( hnrler sieniner I
Kan xii ii.
HobTON, iliii 1 1. The stenner Kan
sail of the Anierlcan-llawali.iii Steam
ship Company has been chattered for
$;.', 000 a- month, one of the top notch
figure even ill the present day of tho
shortage of Isittoms,
Tlie Kansan, which ha been under
i barter to the l-'renf h-Cminda Line,
I cached her dock to-day and was rc-
rharlereil to tne. same romp iii . oui in
a mommy rnic oi nigm-i uimi i
that of the jirevioiw charter
CENTRAL AMERICA BITTER.
Tall of Combined OfTriialxe If V. N,
Inlervenea In Meilco.
Speelol Coble neuutch to Tun Six
PaNAMV, May 11. The cruiser
n.tlelgh, which arrived here to-day from
Ce.rlnto, reports a bitter anli-Amerlcan
feeling In all the republics of Central
America on account of Hie Mexican
situation.
The natives are discussing a combined
offensive iigalnst the Culled States if
the American fiovernment attempts
armed Intervention In Mexlro.
U. S. DEMAND ON PANAMA.
Asks for Surrender of rina nf Hie
Police,
Special Cable Petpatci lo Tins Si-x.
Panama, May H The United Slatei
iiovernment has demanded the surrender
of the arms of tho Panama police, The
American Minister, William J, Price, Is
waiting for an answer,
It Is learned fiom nuthorltallVD
sources that the arms will he surrcndeied
under protest to-morrow.
Washinoton, May H,The. War De
parttneiit otllrlals hero bellovo that Iho
approach of the Panama elections. Is tho
reason for thn drmiiud for Ihe dlsni til
ing of the police there. There have, been
In tho past numerous ipmiielH between
the police und American soldiers: In
which fome of Hit- latter luivo been shut.
30,000 JEWS MOURN
AT.HUMORIST'S BIER
Xcai'l.v Twi"c ns Many o
-March at Sltolom Alpiohom's
Funeral To-day.
WIIOTK HIS OWN KPlTAIirt3.00n I XAULK TO OFT IX
'Here Lies Simple .lew: Made
tlie World Merry, lint He
Suffered llitterly."
In t lit- small loom wheie la the body
of Sholetn Alelchem (tlod lie with you)
yesteidny w. niv tnllow candles and
a pioccssloi of mourners. The candles.
Hot being big ones, guttered and sput
teied and burnt out from time to time,
but Hi,, procession contlnuel without a
bieul. oi illcl.ir, xery much, one was
fold . I to think, like the steady Dame of
lou atid admiration that no doubt wilt
bum foi many centuiles at the tdirlne
"t the Jewish Alaik Twain,
Thu people c.imo and the iieople went.
They did not file liiju that small room
i by tho lens not- et by the liiinilreds.
They in.iicbed by the thousands. The) !
filed up tlie'ii.niow etalrs and through
the ii.il low doorway and behind them
w.i n line of silent moinnerH two blocks
long. They did not wait until the after
noon to come. Tliey came ill the llrst
gray of a bleak il.iy. And with the ills-1
"IiliearaniT hi me sun, or the ngnt which
ciuiie fiom i throiKli the clouds in their
war palm, they did i,ot stop.
I.ate Into the nliiht that procession of
moui tiers coiilininil Late into ibe nhjht
It was still necessary for tin: police le
senei. to .h.M. nltiprtlm groupH fiom
the stieet befoie the hoiiee. And when
at Uut a comiulttee of filinds closed the
I'oor It was not because the l.it of Mime
311,111111 t.)!.on' had tiled tmough and nied
out and thet, vere no mote to come,
but in o.der that the widow and live
iliilili.ii might havd their gilef to them
selves Mini 11m. le Xllllloii. !.( Ii,
,...,M. ,11,. ....... , v. v..,i..
law. vers have iaseil away within one of
tne Iive.bntouglis. llete -Jteat celebra
tions ale held, and here, perhaps mure
thou In any other cltv of the tountiv,
history Is made. It ix a city of gri.it
liappeulucs.
Hut wh.n baa a man db.,1 ,, x;ptt.
York, died In poverty, ami on the next
day hniuglit :ti.ooi ,,tid mole nvairners
to hi bier Yet this man was not a
New Vol Iter He w as not even an
American. Two veare ago he rami, to
this cllj, an outcast from his own coun
try, and went with his family to live In
tlie little Hat where Saturday he died.
It Is n curious thing that the trait
In this man. Sholetn Alelchem. that
1 luiicht to h bier so tnanv mourners
and made mourners out of countless
thousand In far enrnera of the world,
was the trick of laughtrr. It was his In
a great decree. So It was not fn much
the man tumaelf that the mounters
n'ouined as t -v-as, r-o doubt, the thlts:
he st. nd f.n Thev had loM In him not I
ni, im- hi. in, nui a treasuie nox or
inn tb, a i'(iply of smlht, that were
IliKhtet than the sun on n tropic sea.
More Went Tluiii fur h Kin.
To on,, who stood In the tiny loom
with the lv eandle.s and the body of
Sliolem Alelchem there was show n that
the d. itb of n Jester who has touched
the he.iits ot the people Is a matter for
--tenter i,.r than the death of a king.
Kor of the men and the women, old nnd
.vicing, inh and poor, who turned from
the lace of the dead to the Bht of the
utside day theie wtre few whose eyes !
women, under M- Mr' Txlm w '
grief, moke into b,,,erk-.s nd bad to be
ran led away, but cettalnly there was
nnnethlng slt.'inge In a ..'I lef so universal"
that it could blitig train to the eves of
full gionn men. And thK trio, to the
t .-s of men who had never before looked
upon Triolein Alelchem. but knew him
onlv through the niejlliim of hl Isioks,
In sunshine or shower one would
naively glance a second time at thn tin
attractive face of the building at ibSR
Kelly street, The Hronx, Hut yesterday
suih was not the case. All day great
crowds stood on the opposite walk, flow
ing over at times Into tin. street Itself,
aiei siateii snentiy ni ine btiaileil w In-
'" ml oor apanmeni.
Tln-te weie In these crowds men In silk
hats and frock coats, women In silk
't CZxtir
clothes of bright and sombre color, and
men and women and even boys nnd girls
wearing tin- unmistakable stamp of the
i nut ei i..isi r-iuc.
Ueleuiilloiis I'roio Vlnny (llles.
After looking at these silent throng
for a while there was no surprlsn In Ihe ,
news thai for the funeral to-day there ,
will he delegations from hh far west as
Chicago. Nor yet that men nre coming
lo nay n last homage to the humorist i
from places so close In a Pittsburg,
,.,... T,.mill ,,,, ,
i!m.,,(1,e. An,l even hefm-.i ii, ailment before Mr. Herbert look i.i. ,.i.i.
hi messages of condolence began to come
from the Paclllc const ami from Kiir-
laii'i
And also before night a croon of these
mourners, turning tlielr regtet Into more
helpful channels, began the collection of
a fund for the benefit of the widow and
live children who lire left destitute. The.
collection of this fund will be In charge
of the American Jewish Commlttco nnd
II Is Iho Intention of Dr. ,1, I,. Mngucs,
who Is lo have supervision of It, that not
less than $ 10.000 shall bo collected,
"Hem lies a siniplo Jew," wrote
Shnlem Alelchem 111 ordering his own
epitaph, "who wrote In Yiddish for
women folks and who for tho crowd
was a humorist ami a writer. whole
life he laughed. Ho didn't give a rap
for the win Id, lie made the whole world
merry, hut ho suffered bitterly, And
Just when llin world laughed ho suffered
secretly and nobody ever knew It,"
As lin wrote for thu people so ho
wauled lo return to them.
"I do not want to be burled among
aristocrats," he Hiild In his will, "or tlie
rich, but among tho people, the working
men."
Ilia WnrliH Ilia Only Monument.
He directed that no monument or ape
cln! honor be rnlsed In Ills memory,
wishing only that his works should con
tinue lo be rend and translated.
And dually, ho said, after bequeathing ,
one-half of the royalties from his works .
to tlm fund for destitute Jewish writers, I
"I leiivn huh world with run confidence
that the people will not abandon my
children."
It wiih Hitld yesterday of Kholom
Confirmed on Fifth Page.
I IRISH PAY TRIBUTE
I TO THE 15 EXECUTED
Oroat- ramojrie Hall Crowd
Sfirrod b.v Strains of "Die
Wnclit am Illieln."
Clieers (Jiveu for Sir Hoirer
Casement and Hisses for
Itedmond and Carson.
The sort of h.ilr Ulster applause which
only men and women of lilsli birth or
blood, hot with memories of lieland'
wrongs, ran give swept again and ngaln
troni stage to the highest of hUh gallery
eeats In Carnegie llnll last ntoht when a
capacity audience crowded Into the build
ing to hold a mcnioilal meeting for the
fifteen Irishmen put to death for their
part In the iccent lilsh uprising against
Kngl.imi,
Kveiy f-eHt fiom the leaker's ile.-l, out
and upward and ever Inch of spare
where hundred ot otheis could Iliul
standing room or seats on Hie state were
occupied. And back tinib r
the hoie-
shoe of lower boxes and lielntid th
e.ita In the galleries above anient sytn
tMthlrers with the most leceut of 1 1 llt
martyrs stood patiently fiom long befote
S o'clock until almost it,
outside the hall In Klflv .seventh
stieet w;i
a J. mi of men and women
pleading, with Police Captain I'mlerhlll
ami ins lines of patrolmen for permis
sion to enter. As earlv an f, n cloek the
first of the crowd had begun lo ni-inhle
around the ibsus. When slioitly be
fore S o'clock all the e.it and the law-
fully available standing i.oiu had been
taken, the doots were closed except to
a few late atrlvals having box seat
tickets,
'
I hoiisHiiil, lHinl iint.l.le. ,
Hetweell .(HMI
I
and l.fluii men and
HOlllell vn te I 111 IK
because of lack of looiii. so Capt. Cn-1
derhill estlnut.d. And Hi. n when these
""o immii in-.H...I1-
i-'iriun iiiuy nan to annul lo llietnseives ,
iii.iv men iiuioce air eoiern.K llie naili
nan une oy, me.v stooo siieuiic ouilite
he l.a I. hui.dteils remaining exeii when!
he rain began lo fall -as If they -felt .
V il '"' l"-"81'"'?,,"'"" w'" 11 .
tllbllte to Ibe nlemoty of the men whose
names they have added to the centum t1
old list of patriots who have died be.
cause they believed I tela ml should he
long to the It Mi,
tiii.i.. .i... i .... ,
ehi , v7.- r, Z Z l"Z"': Zl
president of tin- Friendly Sons of St.
i-.--.
Patrick and of the l-'rlends of Itish l"r, e
doni, had come upon the ulage the .voung
and middle aged and venerable men of
Irish stock hnd liNh mush- fmm a band
on the stage to set their hearts beating
faster.
"The Hockv Ilo,ti to Dublin.' cried
a lusty voiced man from some plant up
in the Carnegie Hall heavens during
these moments ol waiting for the
speakers.
T'n- inusK i.tti.s ti.eil ,( f. f nlalive
bari to he sure !ie .oui,l ma-Ui the
lolhckilig lilsh tune and thei, blared
fori t
It was ,-, id brul UTort. being
made up paitly of the tune desiied, but
breaking oft unexpectedly to Hroadway's
syncopated notion of liisn niuic. ibe
whole effect being Coh.it ciu. Hut the
effort was .-utllclciit and was w.ldlv ui.
phiuded.
"Ile W.ieht am Hhei' ' ' called nl
most screamtil--inntl-ei enthusiast seat
ed up pen- -he ,-oll-i.c nd al the
shout applause mate, i a-ul c.aikled
round the luesesiioe s iane-1 b t'conles
nnd top g-illern-H, and fnnn some of the
boxes and orchrsit.i -eats jo.i. Acaitt
the musicians made a few tetitatlvi at-
tempts to make sine before going ihe.nl
' "'"'V'' a"""'" 11 uiw'
aPPlae broke forth again, applause ,
t ZTBirXZ rr""' lh'
Checra for sir Itou.-r.
As Hainbridge Colby, one of the
speakits. said later m the nit-ln fl(,ni
the stage, their love for the old .mo, I
was such that they "cheeted the name
of an Irish river, cheeied even ihe name
of a county" In Iiebind. And if certain
stage charactets nre so good that they,
to quote Hroadwny, are "actor proof."
then ceitnliily the temper of lat night's
. , . .. '. . ' ,,,r...i - .
big outpouring resulted in a programme
... ,-,, , , ,,,,,..,,,, nun ,.1,1111, iroil
Cheers weie asked fiom the galleries
for Sir linger Casement and given with
a will, Them were utmost toiistntit
theeis all this befote tlie set piogiaiunie
on. i nerii iirKim ai nu tor tne im- aominiir.itiou or Ireland might lie ex
proinplu musical programme. .nd thru , "mined and not us an acknowledgment
when the tegular prognimme o speeches ' that he had not pcrfoimed his duties.
and the reading and adopting or ieHn. .
ltltlons were laken up the big tlnoiic 1 , --,.,
Instend of being too weary lioin pie-
llinluiMy elfotls to continue t, ,,.
ll,1"1H,! seemed lo be all Hit; better tuned 1
" ,,"''r fnr their Idols nnd to hiss
loudly tlm mention of the nam- of ,lohu i
Hedmond, Sir IMward Carson ami others j
toward whom they believed they had
ciiu for enmlly. ;
T1,e shouted appeal for "three cheers,
fr sir Itmrer C.isemenf e..,,. .......
on the singe. I.oud applause greeted I
not only .Mr. Herbert, but Ihe Hue of
speakcts and others who look their'
places on either Hide of him a few sec.
,m,ll '.Her. '
Among those who cnlercd with .Mr. I
Herbert or came upon the singe a few-.
mmuies inter were supremo t out t .lus-.
tlco Kdward .1, (lit vegan, Hainbridge
Colby, John 1). , Moore, secretary of the
i- rietids or irisn rreeuom : John Jerome I
Hooney, Hourke Cockran. Alfred J,
Talley, Hraudnn Tynan and William .1.
Keller, a member ot Mr, Tynan's theat
rical company.
Fund to He llnlaeil.
Mr, Herbert, who stepped lo the sveuk-'
er's desk amid more wild applause, said
that before Intrtslucliig Juntlce Havegan
as the chairman nf the meeting he. would
ask the audience to rise for a moment ,
In memory ot tho Irish martyrs of
1916."
"An obligation remains upon ns," and)
Mr. Herbert to the Immense audience
now stunduig Hllently, many with bowed
heads, "That Is to show by act that wo
nre ready and willing to help the suf
fering "new who nro Wt behind. A 1
fund Tor publlo subscription will bo
opened -within a dny or two, and I
trust that nil here, In common with
their fellow cltUens, will then R
mibatantinl evidence of tho depth of
their sympathy."
Cries of "We will" and applause
greeted Mr, Herbert's remarks. The
composer then presented Justice Have
gan, whereupon there whh more of Ihe
ever ready applause, which ended with
a lone but lusty yell to Ihe Jurist from
Continued on Scroti rf Pages,
i TO TRY CASEMENT
FOR TREASON TO-DAY
Sensational Develoniuenls Are
Kxpeeted Iitritijr Hear
intr in London.
ASQI'ITII STILL IX IU-I5L1X
Disavmanieiit of Ail Civilians
in Ireland Xow lleiua
IHm'MsmmI. Special I obfr PtiMtcK to Tn 51
UisnoN. May H, The trial of Sir
Hoj,vr Casement on the charge of trea
son win begin In the llow Street t'ollce
Couit to-inorrmv nionilng. The hearings
will be public.
Three of nngland'" leading Jurist- will
try Casement, Including the Lord Chief
.lusllce, Union Heading. Sir V. K. Sirilt)..
Attortiey-tneiiil, will head llin counsel
for the Crown. Oeorge (lavnn Duffy will
be the solicitor In charge of thj prls
otieiV cae ami Artemil" Jones Is ex
pected to act as counsel. Casement's re-
iiuest that he be defended by Sir IM-
w.ird Carson, the I'lsleiite leader and
former Attorny.!eneral. one of the
cleveiest lawyets In the Culled Kingdom,
was denied,
1-u-r since Sir Hoger vs. is anested, a
fi w days before the refolutlotiary out
break In Ireland, while attempting to laud
on the lilsh co.it aims and amiimultloii
! which wen- to aid the rebels, the Interest
of the Htitli-lt people has been eagerly
o.ncentiateil upon the cell In the Tower
lot London when- Casement Is awaiting
V1''" l'i"""ir has ptepaiei a
I'ltrlotlc addiess,' 1itt It Is doubled
whether he will be allowed to ib-lixer it
I'unioi- has It that when the formal
luellmiuary proceedings which will take
to-day's session are b.'gun a stir-
trla
pil.. Is to lie epltlllg lie tile pi OM'cut loll.
ricep mystery nt'll veil' the identii '
the two other Ir s linen who were ar-
r,.Hte,l with Casement It is t.poite,
,hllt ,hN x,. ln ,.,, fr 1(i
I
the Hist
.Xccotdlllg
lo IIchiiIiIm'h .XVii aiiiiiii r
i l,..A,. ......i. ...i e-i i i., ...iu..,.
yeMerday and foi mote than no hour
K ,, ,,, , .allh
is -aid to He much Improud lit the
..., ,,..,. ..... .,r.,11,..
for only sixty persons. Sir Hoger will
be taken to lottrt eeietly.
Nothing definite lux jet ieultel from
lit-
unnoted Herniations aiming at a
" the Itlsh partiea and
tin- formation of a joint executive body
for the duration of the war. Humors
took 'Ui a rather imsltive form at the
week end. but so far they have not
matcilalizcil.
Sir IMward Carson and John Ited
mond rem tin in London, whie Premier
Aeiiulth .s still lii Ireland looking into
the whole situation. It Is believed thai
nothing will be arianged by the Pieniier
without pr.-vlnu-ly having conversations
with the two Irish leaders. The ciitttinn
of irisaimaiuent seems paramount at the
moment.
The Parliamentary correspondent of
the Oullu .Veils savs:
"Premier Asiiilth has mm- snne to
Helfast. The visit Is believed tu bo In
connection with proposals for a disarma
ment of a turtles n Ireland so ih.it
none shall ! iint-ed but the soldiery.
Inforin.il comniuniniatlons oiened be
tween the Nationalists and t'lster repre
sentatives came lo a demllnck. The Na
tionalists are understood to be te.iily to
surrender their arms I' the n-ietinen
do likewise, but the latter i.iled diffi
culties. Hven If they could lie persuaded
to relinquish their arms, they wish to
keep tlicni nanny where they can get
ti, ,.Vi,J .,,ia" Vi,... , .,
nTTm itr for 'n grnem 1 or a
comtiromise beiwl et, he : tlVr ' .1,
.'." "f the .love, nmentto ..,.,
It as a coudlton precedent to anv politi
cal aciioii.
Martial law regulations hate been
greatly modllb-d in Ireland sum, the ar
rival of the Premier The only hours
In which the people must lemaln Indoors
are those from midnight until I o'clock
111 the morning
It Is reported thai the Premier plans
to Incorporate the Nationalists ami
Cnlonlst forces of armed volunti
.o- ..n. iiix'ih in tne unpena
aiiny in order to avoid the serious prob
the auxllliry Hoops of the Imnerlal
em of a general disarmament
llie DiiIIii SriiH says lnd Wlm
liorne nay be reappointed Vlretny of
licland. it Is stated that he icslgned
In order that the whole eomltiel' ne ii,.,
vVA U LrWl.l.'IA J 6 ' JUL AD
lloeim Is Itrvrnl Ilia tellvlty
When lirKisi. .
' " "nni.
f'P'cml Cr,ei,o,ulrncr to Tnr Si.x
Uinisiv, April 2.". -Will Sir Hoger
Casement pay tl emiliv? Ills nrnm.
Kand.i ngalnst t5ie.it Hiltalu uniloubt-
eoiy i-oiue.s under tin- citegorv of high
treason, and Ihe penallv for hhih treason
is "'Mill,
wl' Hoger Casement went to Hetlln
at "'c outbreak of the war. As to his
'Hilval there and his pin nose at tint
tinio tlie only Information Is nn olllcliil
unnnunceiiient that appeared In the
t'OVt-innicnt organ, the .Voi iWnilw Jie;
""i wciiit iiic cuiiiif, on November 20,
,91'- '1'1'ls set forth Hint Sir Hoger
lir"' '"''ii lecelvnl nt the- Herman l-'or-
' ,K" '""' nan pointed out that III
Ii eland statements were published that
n Herman victory would expose tho
lilsh people. Its homes, churches und
priests ,o thn captlco of Invaders, led
by the ilesliu of pillage, and connutst,
ami had asked for a declaration "to
reassure his countrymen."
The l-'oielgn Department, in concert
with tho Impcrlnl chancellor, thereupon
gave a formally winded declaration that
uermauy would never Invade Ireland
wt, tho object of connuerlng It
ami
that, "supposing the fiituno of war
should ever bring Herman trooia lo lie
Innd'H uonslH, they would land as the
forces of a Hovernment Inspired by good
will towanl a laud ami a people for
whom liermany wishes only national
welfare and national n redout."
Hi-pud In led In Ireland
On the publication of this document
the Irish lenders In this country
promptly repudiated Sir Hoger, and the
Council of the United Irish League in
New York adopted a resolution placing
on record the fat fa Hist Casement had
always been hostile to tlie objects nnd
policy of the home rule movement In
Ireland and America ufnl had been
"several months ago utterly repudiated
Conflnnref on Second Page,
ARMY CAMP IMPERILLED
BY RAGING GRASS FIRES
Bandits Destroy Thousands of Acres of Grazing Gound
to Prevent United States Troopers From
Using It Hunt Goes On.
II lillOltl.i: II. I l,Ktl HN'1'1.
Special I'tiirni.nniltnt ot Tun St v.
lfKAPQl'Ar.TJ'llS III' TIIR irNITf.t) STATKS
An.Mr, near Namlitilp.i, Melco, May In
(by mall to Columbus, ,-, M May H),
l-'or the last few doys the ky has been
dlnuneil by a heav pall of smoke and
the heavens limited by the glow of a
ring of lire. The mountains on every
side of the Aineraali forces are seeth
ing furnace of name.
When this camp was established, litter
the lemoval of the field head(Uurlers of
the expedition fiom Colonla Huhlati to
this more southern point on the long
I . li'1 of v m nil u tl i ,i I .i ill with the Mirth, oc
casional Hies swept small Unas, damag
ing the gru.liig, out little attention was
paid to the matter exiept to send de.
tails of men to see that the flames, wcic
not permitted to tiansgtis the line
whli h spelled danger for the tents of the
ottlcets and men ami for tlm stoics of
the iiiaiterm. islet
Then followed III,. .ersiMent search
of the hills foi- bands of bandits.
Hunches of cavali. loam-d the passes
In every dlreillon and t'.ese c:i airs men
were mm h given to glazing tlielr horses
on the h'gh ilrv xr,i.se, which civered
almost ,-verv in. h of the ground for
many miles to the notth, ea-e, .south nu.l
'Vet. This grazing enabled them to
tay for longer poinds front hadiUur
tets and It Mote of fnrage
Woi-U f the HmiiiIIi.
II i now believed that the bandits
'and tln-lr I'm-Ml took notm- f the tte
-to ttluch the crass was beiii put and
' made tii the r minds to so dispose of the
'uppl that tin- coui.ng troopers would
I have lo cither , nl shott the distances,
travelled or cany forage.
I ,'l'he lit,- became mote niimetous and
i began lo nmt a wider range tiiau thev
ever did befote. These tiles, with their
1 - onseipient destttli-tbiil nf htlllilreil.s of
I thousands of a.ies nf tine grass and
, timber, im- winking great haidshv to
the tatllemen of the distt.ot as well
i as to the sohln is who .u ombitig the
, fdlnesse.s of tb Sierra Madies for
iiemuaiits of Villa's once powerful nrm..
J No guiss w Ktnw- upon the buriied
.over distm t mil,: the talny season sets
, .li. Il that tune the .-attb- whiih should
''have I., en pastund upon tt will have
'drifted far. If Imbed many of the tows
ami the young calxes will t.ot have
tat Veil.
The tires have nni i.iuse.l the soldiers
to abate their hunt for the nandlts.
' The hitter an- being given no rest. Not
'only l the seatch being prosecuted by
I large commands such as those led by
Col. Dodd, which rendered surh a good
account of Itself at Cuerreio and Te
tnochle, and by Major Howste. xvhlch
made such a flue t coord when it
tnarched to tlm Duramro line imrl back
i and then siiipiised a baud of briginds
j at OJns Aztlles nnd nlmot annllillated
i It, but it Is he. tig maintained bv count
'less smaller t oir.ui.imI- i oiistantly on
the move, giving tin- batnlltf no oppor
tunity to test themselves- or then jaded,
and half siaiveij poult-s.
II I u II n n ill lo II roil U 1'i,
li is believed by otllcer and men that
a few it-petitions of the punishnieM ad
ministered at i.inrrero, Tetiiochic and
(ijns Aules will i.nise tne bandits to
break up into small bands and lo spread
over a great ..rca of country This
would place .1 in Hie power of Ibe local
constahulaiy to handle the situation
much nioie ie.uhl.v than would be pos
sible were the bandits to be permitted
to travel as they have been doing in
tmall "ainnes" of from fifty to 300.
1'p to this tune nothing has been
heard from th" .lu.itez conference by
the enrtcspondents. If anything ha
been heard bv the iaff oilier. of the
expedition, they have not taken th'- cor
tespondeiiis into their coniiilen.e, nor
has what they may have heard had anv
SAYS GERMANY BEATEN;J
END OF WAR IN SIGHT,
Hp-
1,1
SiiiiiiipI Hill, lCt ill-li ill
lieves Teutons Ciin't Fin
Annther Winter.
S ml lllll, son-in-law of James .1
IIIII, otherwise known as the "father of
good roads In America,'' who had made
before thi" war tbh ty-iilne surveys
of the toads of Hut-ope. tettirni-d
ii-Htfiilny on the steamship Philadelphia
from a swift trip to Hugland and the
Continent. lb' belongs to forty clubs
and has residences In half a dor, n Stales,
but his real home I at Maryhill, Wash.
"lierinanv I beaten," .Mr lllll said,
"and the end of the war Is In sight.
Peace will coino suddenly, as the meat
war stalled, In August, 1i4 There will
not be another winter campaign Her-'
many cannot struggle against the nvi-t-wholntlng
llnnnchil strain and the
Konomlc comjltlnns pu-valllng mce tin
xv a r
"In I'.il" Hermnny inimrtoil '.oii.tniu
laborers lo harvest her i rops. and this
ve.tr hv will only gather In ilfi pet cent
of Ihe harvest of the year bcfoi" the
war '
He made a nivslery of Ills huiiied
II Ip lo Kurope, where he spent Ihe davs
niilv, sailing nnd reluming by the Phila
delphia. He said he bail gone chleily
to talk with King Albert of llelglum.
whom lie has known for some time lie
got a special permit to leave the Phila
delphia when she docked nt night In
lilvetpool. look a swift tialu lo London,
rein-lied Haxie by way of a boa I from
London, by arrangi-inenl with Ihe
French lovernmeni landed at a station
where he found an automnbile walling
for him to take him to the King,
Mr, lllll says- that the automobile
averaged more! thair HO miles nu hour
and that in four hours lie was talking
In the King, He dined xvllh the King
anil (Jueen, look their pictures', hastened
off, reached lloulogne (he next dav, look
passage fiom lloulogne or. a sptclul per
mit by trunsporl to Folkestone and
lauded III Knglaud after spending a little
more than two ilitvs on the Continent.
I la rem Hubert Oppcnhelni, liulon
financier, who Is here on buslnci i elat
ing to war finances, suld
"The war will be over soon I bslen
It will end b.v Christmas, as llie Her
mans cannot afford to let it go on an
other year, The end will conic because
of the tliuiuclal nnd food conditions In
Uerinany. She will have lo n pt the
conditions nf Hie Allies sooner or later.
We nre getting tho wur where wc want
It to be."
rrfect In causing a lessening of eiToit
on the part of the uuartermaster's de
partment to provide for the comfort of ,
the men In the Held. Motor tincks
heavily Inden continue to arrive from
the border by the hundreds, only to go
back for more ammuultlon and food us
oon as they can be unloaded by hun
dreds (f willing hands. I
To prevent an attack upon a motor
truck Haiti by bandits the line between
the border and the extreme front Isthoi
oughly guarded.
As to whether or not Villa still lives ,
or as to whether or not he was wounded t
during thn lighting at (luerieto ho
army seems lo be paying no attention, '
or at least Is wasting no time III tr Itiir
to run dow'n the various rumors which
front time to time ale put nlloat by all
sorts nnd conditions of Mexicans.
limited l-'roni lllilliic Places.
The mnt Important work of the mo
ment seems to lie Ihe driving of the
bandits from tlnir hiding places In the j
mountains.
If Villa Is alive, well and good, When '
he comes from his present retreat he will
be confronted with the necessity of gel
ling together a new set of follow ets.
Ills old timers will have been killed off.
If he Is dead the killing of tlm men
who under his leadership became pro
ficient In the gentle art of cutting
throats and In gathering In loot will
leave the iieople upon whom lie for
merly pre.ved tiee to work out their
own salvation.
I'p to this time It Is estimated that In
the neighborhood of 2(0 Vllllstas have
fallen victims to the deadlines of the
aim of American litlemeti since the Co
llliubu raid on March last This
estimate Includes- those killed while the
raid was In progress.
The death list does not look folinld
able, especially when the number of
American soldlets engaged III the gteat
man hunt Is taken Into consideration,
but It means much more than the mete
llgilies would Indicate. The killing of n
few members of the bandit bands of
bt le moment to the average resident of
I this country which has been constantly
at war for the last Ihe years.
What counts for much mote In this
I campaign is that the bandit can find no
!! e In which to hide. That Is son.
.thing or tl. "in Hltlui to, even under the
, lion rule of P- i.-' . Diaz, bandits might
be diiven from a position or ,i town In
which they had established themselves,
but they simply moved to another posi
Hon or town and roestabllshed them
selxes until they had made themselves
so obnoxious to the Inhabitants that the
complaints of the latter could no longer
be Ignored by the most complacent leader
of rurales. They were rarely followed
and never with the InsisUucy widen hns
nvirked the pursuit policy of the Amer
icans. Wearing flnl tlie Ontlama.
The b.mdlts are Iwlttg norn out. It'
Is true that the Americans' horses which
cirried the pursuers nt first showed
signs of fatigue, but they are liecomlng
used to the mountain trails Hnd to the
materially different character of thi
food and forage found In thl country.
The men never were worn out, and
now that the cnmm!snry department
is In position to keep them clothed and
fed and their hores have reenveted to
Hie point that they are ready to negoti
ate the trail a well or better thin
I can the mounts of the men being pur
I sued there Is little hope for the bitter.
I If the disposal of the bandits Is nil
thai Is needed to put this country t
1 peace the Americans seen to have the
i situation well In hand. Time will be re
I qtilteil. but now that the American, are
bete and wen equipped rot- ine woik,
I cut out for them a few days or weeks
I more or less will hardly matter. The I
constant combing of the mountains will
j do tlie ou-iness so eueciiveiy tnai mere
I will be little trouble for a well disposed
' police department to keep the country
I free from brigandage forever after.
GEN. PERSHING DENIES
MOVING TROOPS NORTH
F. S. Forces in Mexico Able to j
; Cope With Any Situation
Arising, lie Say.
it. (.Fount: ii. ci.r.vir.vr,
Special Correspondent of Tn Si'.
At.V.VNCK IHsr, I'mtkii St.vths Ar.:iv,
Namiqi'II-a, Mexico. May 1.1; xla radio
lo Columbus, N. M, May 14. On
Pershing, commander of the expedition,
vlslied the camp thli afternoon on a tour
J of Inspection, He denied the rumors
published In many American newspapers
that tlie army now in Mexico is menm-id
on every hand.
"You may s.iy that nur nrinv
now In Mexico Is fully able lo
cope witli any situation which may
arise," he told correspondent, "but
ou may ndd that there Is no danger
of attack fiom any source or direction,
as the lesult of the battle nt OJos Annie
a few days ago put such fear Into the
bends of the bandits Hint II will bo
a long time before they Invite another
such heating as was then given them "
Hen. Pershing denied categorically
thee has been Rliy movement of the
nrmy towanl the border or that any
such movement Is Intended In tho near
futiite. The lines of communication are
well guarded and the forces so well
disposed as lo bo In no danger of being
attacked.
I $25,000,000 GRANT ANNULLED. ,
CnrrniKM CnnerU n lllu llallivnv
i oneeaalon,
.Mexico i 'ITT. Max- 14. The Dunn.
, - -sr---
mmit of Cnmniuulcatlonmiiiuouiicciltu.d.iy
i the cancellation of th concession f0I. t,(.
eouttii-nstern Mexico branch of the Nn
tionrtl Hiillwayti, the largest tallwa.v run
struct Inn projci t under conHuli-ratlon In
- tn republic William Prlmni Wood of
Louisville, Ky wnw the original lonres-
slnnnire for tho line, '
. The concession, which was Issued din
ing Ihe last d.'i.vs of Iho Diaz Atlinluls.
I trillion, carried a governmental subsidv
ltd P.Ti, ooii.ooii. The work was delayed
beciiiise of revolutionary trouble und
jlluerta grunted the construction tout
puny nn extension of time,
I Wood disposed of the franchise. In a
Hilllsli syndicate, willed expended lane
I sums In surveys, gradln- aiui gbtalnlus ,
rlght of way,
TWO IN CABINET
SAID TO FAVOR
INTERVENTION
President Ifcsistinr Tics
sure to I'se AmimmI Force
in Mexico.
A GOOD POLITICAL
MOVK. SAY ADVISKRS
On. Scoff to Give Full De
tnils To-day of llordcr
Conference.
TWO FINES SKT HY
SPIKS IX F0HT 1U.ISS
On. Fnnstoii Appoints
Urijrndicr-Geiicrals for
Horder Patrol
Wasiiincton', May 1 1 President Wil
son, who will return to-morrow morning
from his week end yachting tilp on the
Mayflower, Is laid to be resisting strong
pressute fiom member of b a own
Cabinet in euport of aimed Intervention
In Mexlto. One or two of the members
are said lo be a,.ye s-iioi ting In
tel volition.
Olhel inrmbeis of ihe Cbmet are s.ihl
lo be using th Miguiuent of politics n
faxor of Intervention
The President, howevei, is lepoilel
ns absolutely fixed In his determination
no: lo tisoit to such a move unleaa
the Carranna fotces (u Mexico turn
against the American tioops ot attempt
any attack on Amcilcan town along
the Ixirder.
Tlie Cabinet on Tuesday piobably will
consider the character of the diplomatic
negotiations which will succeed the mill
tuiy coulereiices on tho bonier ami It la
expected that befme the cud of the week
them will begin a series, of Interview a
between Secretary Lansing and Kllaeo
Atredomlo, the Mexican Ambassador
designate, I'p to a late Imur lo-nlght the War
Department bad received no news from
Major-(Jen. l-'unston to show that .Major
I-aiiBhorne, commanding the second
punitive expedition, sent in putsuit of
the raiders who attacked (ilcnn Springs
and lioiiuillas, had cncounleitd the ban
dits. Pending tho development of Cutnna a
altitude the Ailminlstiatlon is holding
(Irmly lo lis retent policy or refu.ing io
penult shlpmeniH of arms anil ammu
nition to cross Ihe bolder, vtbvthet inn.
signed in the Carranza uutlmt ille or not.
It Is expected, however, that Ambasv
dor Arieilondo will renew bis etioits Hum
week to get such shipments thnuigh. on
the giound that wlthoui .immiiiilllou it
will be impossible for Hid .Mcxli.m Inr.-ea
to operate successfully ngain-l lln- ban
dlls. Pending the return to-innrow from
the border or Major-Hen. S.ott, Admin
Istratlun oiriul.ilH wer,e niail.tng time t,,.
day in tlielr conslUeiatlon of ine MM
0.in situation
Hen, Scott Is expect, d to ie.u n Wash
ington in tin- nioiniiig and dining Ih
day will bold an extended conference
with Secretniy of dtato l..tiing, to
whom he will make a full tep.iii of hs
parleys with Hen. Olurgon, Carr.nu.i s
.Minister of 1V.tr. It is iiossib.e also
Hint before the Cabinet meeting on Tues.
day the ilenei.il will see I'lcsldeut Wil
son. It was s.-i.d at the War Department
to-night that (l.-n. Scott will hi lug had.
with him a full stenographic transcript
of everything that was said during h-s
Interviews with l!en. Obrcgon,
TO COMMAND BORDER.
I'niialon Nniiie llrlR.-Hena, Parker,
ireene and Mann,
Svs- As-tonio, Tex., May 14. With the
naming of three division or district com.
in.indeis to be In charge of the border
patrol ilen. l-'iuistoii has begun the ot -g.inizallnn
of this branch of thn Mexican
oniipnlKii They nro Hrlg,-Hen. James
Prker, iiiinni.-indlng tlm First Cavaltv
Hngaile; llrlg.-Hen. llirry A Ureeiie.
who has been sent hero fmm For'
Leavenworth, and Hrlg.-r.cii, William .
Mnnu mmaiuliiiB tho Second Hrlgade
a- Laredo.
Theie aie now approximately riP.dnn
troops under Hen. Funston's comniiino
and the teorgiinlr.atloit of the patrol w-il
stret-gtlu-n the border protection to an
extent heaihiuarters believe will prsvcni
a tepetition ot the Columbus and lilenu
Spilngs tnlds
.MiibllU.ilioti oi' the nillllla of Texn
New Mexiiu and Ail.ona wan completed
to. day. according to nxports received nt
l:cail(ii.irters hern to-night. All but two
rcgimenis of Infantry, thn Tblitletli ntnl
the Thlid, one company of Coast Ar
Hilety and nun battery of the Third Fild
Altlllory of tlm troops ordered tl IhN
ibp.u tnii-nt llale aillve.il.
A tepott leteived to-lllgllt Indicated
Hint Ihe two infantry regiments. wnro
slaiiliu lioin their stations In New York
to.dnv for I'ort Sam Houston. Tlm Third
wl'l lie assigned to Kaulo Puss toe border
duly, but Hie station foe tho Thirtieth
Infantry lias not been designated. Seven
of tlm eleven coinpanicH of Coast At
tllleiy sent hi am In iitobllUallmi
rump mid the oilier four have, been ills
tt United along llin border,
(Ion. Kunstou sava It Is not proh.ihl
that he will send any of the militiamen
to the lioidi-i' for two or tlireo week
because Willi Hie many meruit In each
i-onim mil much Hrno .will Im tfiiulreil
to nt (be brlgado for set vice,
OBREGON SATISFIED.
Confer With Orn. Trrrlno, whn
Will Attack Randlta.
Ill Paso, Mny 14, (rtl Mtntn
iihicgnn is In Tnrrentt to-night on h n
wit to JBextcn city, according to de.
tiHtc'ms 'to Juarer. Hen "ihu-gnn win
avrnmpnnleil to T-irreon by rjov. (3u.
