NIGHT
EXTRA
Cimting
FINANCIAL EDITION
Ste&ger
MIGHT
KXTRA
VOL II.-NO. 209
pniLADELPUIA, MONDAY, MAY 15, 1910
CortstottT, 1010, bt in roBLio Lscom COMrlMf.
raidi om: co&ra
CASEMEN'T PLAN
OF ACTION SHOWN
AS TRIAL BEGINS
plotted to Land Several Ex
peditions in Ireland, is
Evidence
TTHRONGS AT HEARING
-glr Soger Calm and Smiling as
Prosecutor weacis
Charge
LONDON1, May 15.
prt of the carefully laid plans by which
ir Roger Casement and his confederates
'Soiled to set up an Independent republic
U Ireland -were revealed today when Sir
Roier was brought from the Tower of
limdon for a preliminary hearing In New
itreef pollco court. .... . ,
The chown rescrod much of Its ovldenco
for the formal trial to bo held later. Enough
iraa presented today, however, to Bhow that
Ciwement planned with German nld to land
Hat only one, but several, expeditions on
1 jj,, coast of Ireland nnd elsewhere on tho
British Isles.
The German nuxlllary that nccompanlcd
dasement and his comrades aboard tho sub
marine U-19 to tho Irish coast carried arms
and huinltlons suinclcnt to equip a large
force of rebels. Attorney General Smith de
clared. When the auxiliary was sunk by
. nriilsh natrol boat sho carried to tho
bottom a million rounds of munitions ; 20.000
rlns, 10 macnine guns mm ninny uuhiub.
Tticie were to have been distributed to rebel
kands counted on to rlso nnd Join Sir Roger
Jn a vlctorlqus march on Dublin.
In the prisoners' dock with Casement to
tty was Daniel Bnlloy, formerly an Irish
soldier, who was captured by tho Germans,
tt.it-v wn lnilur(d bv Cnsement In a visit
,1 t& his prison camp to Join In his expedition
io ireiuiiu t,i.4 ... u... ........ ........ uu..u.u
f from the U-19 In n collapsible boat.
Sir Roger was ciaa in a secuy uarK sun,
tih frftvfd sleeves. He entered tho court-
'rpeiri smiling and nodding to soino of the
' .m tul,n bnaw lilm linfnrn lin ivfltt knlf-htrd.
JJICll ..." .....- ...... -. 1,
JtU face was covered with a stubby, green-'Mi-gray
beard that gavo Ills best smiles a
"" ihutly look. He woro a pair of shoes
requisitioned from tho stock of tho British
army. Tho strings on his shoes and those
ti his companion were absent, the result
eta, precaution taken by authorities against
'wlclde by the prisoners.
' Bit; Roger was brought to court from tho
' tower In a taxlcab, closely guarded, and
w iirai In the courtroom before many persons
i knew of his nrrlvnl.
, " Bailey, -who escaped at tho time of Sir
Roger's capture, was captured on Sunday
'la Wandsworth. He had been living In
ft ?dlTilee for, mora than threo weeks, whllo
'. feotitnd Yard scoured the British Isles for
I & ' '
381r Koger, who Is one of tho most fa-
"mat prisoners arraigned since the out-
' pJt of the war, was described as having
ccupation ana no nxert place or abode
ley was described as a, soldier.
iJPha charge ngalnst,tl(e; defendants "--was
lat they did "on divers- occasions between
November, 1011, and April 21, 1D10, un-
"lawiuuy, maliciously nnd traitorously com-,
mlt dilgh treason within "and without tho
reaim ot ttngiana, in contempt or our sov
ereign lord. King and ills laws, to the evil
example of others and In like case contrary
io mo oue auegiance or said defendants."
The , prisoners, especially Sir Roger,
seemed to be In excellent health nnd spirits.
They were escorted to the court from Lon
don Tower under a military escort The
trip was made secretly In order to prevent
any untoward demonstration In tho streets.
There were accommodations for only
about 60 spectators In the court, but de
spite the limited space a great crowd clam
ored fori admission nnd tho police on duty
oufelde'the court hnd n difficult time lfi re
straining them.
Since his arrest Sir Iloger has devoted
considerable time preparing data to bo
Used In his defense. He attempted to ob
tain Sir Edward Carson, the leader of
the Ulster Unionists, to defend him.' It
was reported, but failed. If this roport
was true tho circumstances presented a
strange anomaly, for Sir Edward Carsoir
w at the head of an Irish faction which
Is bitterly opposed to Homo Rule for
Ireland.
couivrnooM crowded.
Hlstorla Bow Street Court was filled to
opacity when Sir Frederick E. Smith, the
Attorney General, opened tho case for the
Government.
The women, who arrived at 1 a. m., were
the first In line at Bow street, but by 5
0 clock a large crowd had assemblmed. ,The
Police .supplied the women who arrived be
fore dawn with coffee. ,
SlrTrederlck began with the life history
J i ?ment, outlining his public activities
"ii detail.
..tf th? Attorney Generaltspoke Sir Roger
? sat In the rirwu witv, ,i nt.n A.i
' .. -. " . -it testing upvil
' il & hla hand- ll8 Slanctd keenly
ft s - tioKioiruiB iram iimn tn t ma nml
f1
TAYLOR NAILS ANONYMOUS LIES;
PREDICTS LOAN BILL VICTORY
M?ruu,y objlructtntys have thlsrtorninjr nt great expense flooded the
coirng0Wtoh8lBn? ymUS pr,ntcd fn,S 8tatcmc"t8 which they have not the
,t,ti Tunt t0v. vttr", cv,"y votoF ntjalnat bolnp; misled by the statements
Atl uC8C oteHon!t8 arc issuing in their last desperate attempt to
.,?iA hcit.tr1ns f,nd " loan bill, and to condemn you to continue to
submit to the hardships and inconveniences: which are imposed upon the car
riders and to the payment of tho $800,000 yearly exchange ticket penalty.
. Again . I urge you to pay no attention -to those powerful interests and
their stealthy agents, who are working in every section of tho city to deprive
you of your rights and to lead you to, play into the hands of your enemies
by voting against the transit and port loan bill.
The fact that tho statements being issued are unsigned should bo enough
to plnce you on your guard.
In this crisis in the city's history, I Urge every voter to support tho
welfare of tho city nnd tho welfare of the people by voting1 for tho transit
nnd port loan tomorrow, and predict tnat,the loan bill will pass by a sub
stantial majority; for the people arc going to take tho bit in their teeth
this time.
Don't forget to demand a loan ballot when you go to tho polls tomorrow.
TALK OF PEACE
IN GERMANY FREE
OF CENSOR'S BAN
Teutons Ready to End War,
Is Declaration Heard
Constantly
WANT WILSON TO ACT
P
magistrate frpm time to time and
Continual on rare Two. Column Twe
THE 'WEATHER
k-0 !s Bluo Monday for thousands of
jromtn In tow,i and out of It. Of course,
uw Bloomy firmament Is no source of Joy ff
any one, eept the ducks and pessimists,
..r. J ""men who wasneu meir nair
ictterdav. it's tt i .,. .v.-. ...... .
' womn did lave their tresses with soap
nQ water vAfatAr.int. i.Ann.. l. , u '
n .. '7. ".7." ""U".HU"U)'
tea i. V. '' w"? I"entv f opportunity
to in i ' Ils quUe- an """Jertaklng
oCtress T ""' ei ur even incnea
-yJra ey.d'?apnolntecf today? Be
cause damn wmiii,. n.i... ...: ....
; 'wWiuiir.iTwhiy.
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
flojed p a lieu discovery in Solar
Plt3lca by
. ,U? " U00RB -NO 11 r. CAKQTHEHB.
Lnn' M?v 3T" fc will open
. f ?(ir and cool.
tf'ldoy, May Sttfoht froiU.
w!dau: Uau "Uahi frott,,
uWein,tday, Hay t) Wanner tempera,
' sw'0?' 3alr aPtevalHng wanner
cLi " U,W " Saturday, May ?T
UlthiJ . dr?re water temperature, but
VUhout froete, it U believed.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
rffT PMbMphia and vidnxtu
ubluV0ni3ht d- Tuesday, withprob
afX'r8; f0"1'"- tonight; nutiir
at tatt to. touth winds,
TXia AND FQTWD
8f2K,f,SJ"'Dlm?n'i " wth ruoy M7
wSSSSt montln. between Fena .quire
Sff ?nM,, i"Sa1 s- 8'a'loo or subway
Co 80J r-h,d," .",ufni to J- P- VaMwill
MfrEIlS;,?n t88 " Cedar ave. n4
JIS. ?d Catharine ate. cooulnlnj 113T
TSfcI?tA.'i?f'' MW Wtttch. Rw4t4 If
1 to vm,,u,t W. Poushten. 8.'a ctwat-
Bnnr.iN, May 15.
The most uotablo relaxation of the censor
shown since tho war began Is now apparent
In relation to "penco, talk" In the news
papers and In press telegrams being sent
outside of Germany.
Tho general tenor of the peace argu-
(ments is that the people of the belligerent
countries aro tired of the bloody strife and
tho enormous financial drain nnd aro ready
to quit. If their Governments consent.
in Germany tho declaration Is constantly
heard that tho German Govenment stands
ready nnd willing to open peace negotia
tions. Tho constant reiteration of this
statement, it Is bflleed. Is having consid
erable moral effect upon the peoples of the
nations at war with Germany. It may
eventually weld public opinions so strongly
that the Governments may. be forced to 11b
'ten to tho Voice of tho public and, heed It.
Thero Is a strong disposition Mn some
quarters to regnrd President Wilson as the
logical mediator, although this has recently
bjcn wo.iktned "somewhat by the refusal of
the United Stales to heed Germany's de
mand that the American Government com
pol llnKland tf. lighten her blockade 'Against
the Teuton nlHeta.
Somo newspapers express the opinion
tint the thnnct now nw alts 'President Wil
son to become one of the.great International
llgurerf In hlvory by making representations
to bring to an end the greatest war In the
history of manklnu.
Kxprtsulon::, especially from members or
the British Government, that tho Allies will
light until Gei many Is crushed Into the
dust, ure regarded ns the only obstacle
whicn 'prevents President Wilson from
making homo sort of overtures to the bel
ligerent goverrments. But In the face of
thes.j tho hope exists In the minds of the
growing party of "pacifists" that tho
American executive will address himself
to tho warring Powers In such a way as to
gain their r.ttentlon and that fighting may
come to an end before the conclusion of
another six months of warfare.
There seems to bo a strong resenunem. in
some sections of the governments opposed
to Germany against Intervention for peace
on tho part of the Pope. This may bo due
to the fact that Germany and Austria-Hungary
are closer to the Vatican than Eng
land, Franco and Russia, or It might be In
spired by otper political considerations, but
the fact remains that It does exist very
strongly.
WAR'S END SOON AND SUDDEN;
ALLIES VICIOUS, SAYS HILV
Railway King's Son-in-Law Back From
Flying Trip Abroad
NEW YORK, May 5. Germany Is beaten
and the end of tho war Is near at hand,
according to Samuel Hill, associated with
his father-in-law. James J, Hill. la railway
enterprises, who arrived late last night
from Liverpool on the liner Philadelphia.
Hill made n recoj-d trip abroad,. He was
only Beven days ashore, but In that time
he traveled from Liverpool to London;'
across tho Channel to Havre; to the head
quarters of King Albert of Belgium and
back again, He had a long talk with King
Aipert and got a gllmnfie of the front, near
Duntflrk.
"Germany cannot struggle against the
nv.r.vhaiminir financial strain and the eco
nomic conditions arising since the war. he
said, explaining why he believed peace
unniii imnn come. "There will not be an
other winter campaign and peace wll coma
i, a, suddenly as the war broke out. The
French people have put their living on a,
nrai-ticnl basis. They eat only sufficient
food' to sustain them In health. King Al
bert, whom I have known for a score of
years. Is In splendid health and confident,
of early restoration to his people of the,
section of Belgium held by tha Germans,
Hill sad he made his flying trip to get
certain Information, the nature of which
was not disclosed.
Delaware Town Quarantined
3KAFOP.O, Pel,, May 1 5 After several
meetings the(.Safor& Board of Health met
again Sunday In co-operation with the
Town Council, and decided on placing a
quarantine against Laurel (o stop, trael
from that town, which Is reported as hav
ing a smallpox epidemic. Notices were
posted this morning, and gUards placed on
the roads and at the railroad station to
stop all travel between that town atd Sea-ford.
Saloons Must Be Closed
Until Midnight Tomorrow
All saloons must close tonight at
midnight and remain closed until
midnight tomorrow.
The primary election tomorrow is
regarded as a genera! election be
cause the people will vote and decide
the fate of the loan bill,
At other primaries the saloons
closed one? hour before the, polls
Opened and resumed business an
hour after the pansrcked. .
.1 1 1 - "
RADIO MESSAGE
FROM PRESIDENT
STARTS EXHIBIT
Wilson Sends Greetings to
Today and Tomorrow
Civic Exposition
COMPLIMENTS OF CITY
President Wilson sent n message of good
cheer to tho Philadelphia Today and To
morrow Exposition, In tho Commercial Mu
seum, this mor'ilng, and upon Its receipt
the doors were opened to tho public. Tho
greeting of the President follows:
May I not comcy to tho mnnagcrs of
tho Philadelphia Today and Tomorrow
Civic (Exposition my cordial bcst.w(shcs
for tho success of tho exposition and
for the prosperity of the great muni
cipality which It represents.
WOODItOW WILSON.
This menage was Dashed nt 9:58 this
morning to George W. Norils, president of
tho exposition, by way of tho wireless sta
tion at Arlington, W. Vn Tho message was
received at tho radio station of tho Phila
delphia Navy Yard nnd Vclaycd to tho ex
position. It required 0110 nnd a half min
utes to transcribe It.
The countless exhibits that not only por
tray tho city's greatness, but tell a vivid
story of what Is expected of the future were
explained to nil vlsltqrs by experts.
' Side by sdo aro the throbbing life of the
present and the drenms of Philadelphia!!!
tor tne ruture grentness 01 tne city.
Tha publlo-Hjhovl-ystn)-haB-praird--
school exhibit that Includes every phase
of tha edueatlduatTtcllvltlBi-hBrifr Chlirches
havo joined heartily 'In the" -jlfbjecl. Tho
city Itself shows.. Just what It has been do
ing and what It will do.
Among the organizations that have asked
for space arc tho Boy Scouts', tho Cllc
Club, the W C. T. U., Enstern State Pen
itentiary, Mothers' Assistant Fuiul, Penn
sylvania Home Teaching Society nnd Free
Circulating Society for tho Blind, Con
sumers' League, Western Temporary Home,
Public Baths' Association, Tcmplo Unher
slty. Homo for Incurables. Philadelphia
College of Pharmacy, Friends' Select
School, American Antl-Vlvlsectlon Society,
Martin Luther Neighborhood House, Ameri
can Biblb Society, Women's Pennsylvania
S. P. C. A., Women's Medical "College, Bu
reau of Municipal Research, Morris Refuge
Association, Mercy Hospital. Visiting
Nurses' Society, Pennsylvania Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
Pennsylvania Industrial Homo for Blind
Women, tho Lighthouse, Society for Or
ganizing Charity, Germantown Y. W. C. A.,
Central Y. W. C. A.. Babies' Hospital,
Children's Bureau, Scybert Institution,
Children's Hospltnl of Philadelphia.
Tho Art Jury, tho Free Library and the
Bureau of Pollco ure among the special
exhibitors.
Mayor Smith, who Is honorary chairman
of the general committee of men and wo
nlen In charge of the project, has appointed
Director of Public Works Datesman chair
man of the City Exhibit Committee. Wil
liam C. Stnnton, secretary of the Com
prehensive Plnns Committee, is secretary.
In a statement today, the Muyor said tho
exposition would play an Important part
In the movement for cilc betterment, A
gathering together of all civic, educational,
social and economia forces, he said, was a
post-graduate course In citizenship. The
Mayor urged every citizen, who has the
good of the city at heart, to visit the ex
position. AUTO DODGES CYCLE, CRASHES
INTO I'OLE; ONE BADLY IIUHT
Germantown. Man Victim of Accident
on Reading Piko
R. Park Love, of the Pelmar-Morrls
Apartments. Germantown, Is In the Chest
nut Hill Hospital In a serious condition
today as the result of an automobile acci
dent on1 the Heading pike, near Barren Hill,
late yesterday afternoon, Mr. Love, with
Charles Moorehead, of 243 West School
House lane, the owner of the car, and two
other men, who refused to give the police
their names, were In the car when the acci
dent occurred.
Accorqmg to tne ponce, tne man unving
tho car steered aside to avoid striking a
motorcycle and crashed Into a telegraph
pole. Mr, Loe and Mr. Moorhead were
both Pitched out of the car. The other two
men escaped with bruises. The car was
wrecked.
LOANS ATTACKED
IN AN ANONYMOUS
LAST-HOUR BLAST
City Flooded' Witfe Expen
sive Appeal AgaiiJ&t Rapid
Transit Pips
BEGS VOTERS TO WAIT
West Philadelphia Club Urges
Defeat Because of Sec
tional Benefits
Opponents of the transit loan are mak
ing frantic last-hour efforts today to bring
about tho defeat of tho measure which
means tha construction of a comprehensive
system of rapid transit lines that would
servo all of Philadelphia.
Tho city la being flooded with anonymous
circulars. In which tho "appeal" Is made to
the voters to mark their ballots against tlio"
transit loan on tho argument that Philadel
phia does not need rnpld trnnslt lines for
another 30 yenrs.
No one will assume responsibility for the
efforts, but whoever Is behind tho last
mlnuta campaign against the loan, ap
parently Is not bothered about tho expense.
Tho circulars aro printed on expensive
paper, nnd the printing alone cost several
thousand dollars. They nro being mailed
to every voter In tho city, in expensive,
plain envelopes, nnd two-cent stamps are
being used to curry them. The postage
amounts to more, than $6000.
No names cither of any Individual or
organization. Is signed to the circular;.
Penrose-McNIcho! leaders, who are knovyii
to bo behind a movement to knife tho gen
crnl loan bill nt the polls tomorrow, deny
nil knowledge of It.
Tho circular contains arguments that
favor the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com
pany, nnd which the friends of tlio Taylor
plan and tho advocates of the passngo of
the loan, today challenged as "specious
and misleading."
It Is nlso contended In tho circular that
tho passage of tho loan btlls would mean
nn exorbitant tax rato of $2.25 Instead of
$1.50, tho present rate.
An organization signing Itself "The Tax
pavers' Association of West Philadelphia"
Is Hooding the district west of tho Schuyl
kill Illvcr with appeals to defeat tho gen
eral loan bill.
Tho plea Is mado In the circular sent out
by this association that If tho loan Is passed
"nil general Improvements for West Phil
adelphia will be 'fmbtponed for ton years."
Only $30,000 foP n sewer Is Included In the
general loan for West Philadelphia, tho
"association" asserts
MAYOR IN FINAL
JffiCRJQPftCTS
SWEEP FOR LOAN
Tells Walnut Street Busi
ness Men Majority Will
Break Record
EXTRA
DEAD IN DU PONT EXPLOSION NOW KNOWN TO DC 70URTE1V
Tho bodies of eight more dead which wcie tnken ftom the ruins
of the explosion nt the Oibbstown plant qf the clti Tout concern wcic
Identified this afternoon as follows! Leon Wilson, Oibbstown j Bob
crt Gattoii, CUbbstownj Andrew Zttlnger, Pittsburgh; George Kynn,
Paulaboro; Thomas Jordon, Woodbury; Harry Lipplncott, Joseph
Oheyncy mid Beinnid Keller. This hicxense the .known dead to 14.
PIMLICO RACING RESULTS
riist,r:ice, 2-ycnr-olds, selling, 5 furlongs Manokin, 112, Ti os
ier, $-1.80, $3.20 nnd $2.00, won; Rhymer, 113, J. McTnggart, $4.50
and $a.G0, second; Golden Bantam, 104, Ball, $4, third. Time, 1:0!J.
Yellow Sally N. K. Bcal, Buddy, ricbhet, Chemung nnd Ostcgo also ran
FRENCH FLIERS HURL 400 BOMBS ON BULGAR CAMP
'SALONICA, Hay 15. ricnch aviators on Sunday bombarded the
town of Kanthl, wheie the tenth division of the Bulgniiau army la
encamped. About 400 bombs wcie diopped by the ncroplnncu,
causing heavy damage to banacks and Zeppelin sheds. The aviators
returned safely.
DUTCH, DANES AND SWEDES ADVANCE TIME ONE HOW
NEW YORK, May 15. The Commercial Cablo Company today sent out the
following notice: "Tho Central Telegraph ofllco nt Berfie, Switzerland, announces
that in tho Netherlands, slnco May 1, and In Denmark and Sweden, from May 15
until September 30, tho legal tlmo Is advanced ono hour."
INDORSED BY ASSOCIATION
TtlOTORTnUCK BURNED
Gasoline Falls on Heated. Bearing and'
Causes Explosion
WEST CHESTER, Pa., May 16, A large
motortruck, one of the biggest farm ma
chines In this section, belonging to Mrs.
Emily L. Roberts, of pear Supartown, was
completely destroyed by fire yesterday, with
a loss of about J3000.
The driver of the machine Btopped at
Sugartown to procure gasoline, and while
the Quid was being placed In the tank a
portion fell upon an overheated bearing,
taking aire from this and exploding the
main. tank. The car was destroyed within
a few minutes and a fire extinguisher used
had po effect upon the fierce blaze.
Magistrate Kirk, Jenkintown, 111
Udwln Kirk, the Jenkintown Magistrate,
who at 7 was recently married, h l at
lit, liqme In that borough, confined to. Ms
bed wth dtwlcal' attack. Magistrate
Kirk Is among the oldt members of the
jilater 6Mlry Jn Montgomery County.
The Walnut Street Business Men's
Association today vcnt on record as
favoring boih loan bills after hearing
the Mayor speak for them. The motion
was mado by E. J. Laffcrty, chairman of
the All-Philadelphia- Committee, and
carried unanimously.
Mayor Smith closed his campaign for tho
loan bills, when ho spoke this afternoon nt
a luncheon given uy me vvninui nireci
Business Men. nt the Hcllovue-Stratford.
Ho ended his speech with this ringing np-
peal:
I Implore you to fight for Philadel
phia tomorrow. Just as you would light
If you were called on to defend that Hag
yonder.
And he pointed to the country's Hug.
which was Just above his head.
The Mayor told his hearers that not alono
the majority he was so confident of, but tho
credit of the passago of the bills would have
to go to A. Merrltt Taylor, former Director
of Transit.
Ha made the prediction that he loan bills
would get a bigger majority than had ever
been given to any loan bills In Philadelphia.
In his speech the Mayor mid
"I don't know that thero could be any
thing more fitting than this luncheon nt this
lime, for It marks the opening of tho Phila
delphia Today and Tomorrow Exposition
nnd the close of my campaign for tho loan
bills.
"I nm glad to look you men in the face
and say that In preparation of these bills
there was no star chamstr session.
"Immediately afte.r I was Inaugurated
this man on my right" ho Indicated Jo.
Beph P. Qaffney, chairman of Councils'
Finance Committee "came to my office and
wo mado a compact. We agreed, that we
would run the administration of this city
aboveboard and openly,. We did away with
the Subcommittee on Finance which for
merly framed .the city's financial condition
behind closed doors.
"When these particular loan bills were
prepared vve called In the editors of the
newspapers. Wo asked them to Inspect the
bills and see If there was anything In them
that would be prejudicial to the Interest of
the city, and then called on them to sup
port the bills. I must say the press ha:
stood by loyally, .
"On January 3, Mr, Taylor resigned as
director of transit. 'He said to me then,
'Tom (you must understand 1 have known
him as an earnest and energetic man for
years), Jf you peed my hel. call on. roe,'
"When I heartl that certain corporate ln
fluences and political Interests were at work
against the loan bills 1 called Mr. Taylor,
and he was in piy office within 0 mlnute-J,
and before the end of the day he had begun
Lis campaign to reawaken public interest,
which had been lulled for a time."
DUNLAP GETS PUBLIC WORKS POSITION
Fred C. Dunlap, former chief of tho Bureau of Water, was named today by
uirccior uatcsmun, or tne Department or 1'uuiic works, to do a consulting engineer
ing expert In connection with sewage disposal work, Mr. Dunlnp will bo paid out
of an Item In tho loan bill, and tho Director would not say how much his recompense
would be. Mr. Dunlap was head of tho But can of Water until September, 1012.
WESCOTT TO RENOMINATE WILSON FOR PRESIDENCY
WASIIINtaTON, Mny 15. Attorney General Wescott, of New Jersey, will nom
inate President Wilson nt St. Louis. That decision was reached at the conference
between tho President and tho Attorney General at the White House today. Wlth
uut consulting tho President, the New Jersey delegates had selected Governor Fielder
to make the nominating speech. Tha. conference today had the effect of settling the
controversy as to whether tho President should bo placed In nomination by Fielder
or Wescott, who placed Mr, Wilson in nomination at tho Baltimore convention.
ROTAN DISCUSSES "ASSISTANCE TO VOTERS" ACT
District Attornoy Rotan said today, discussing tho "assistance, to voters" clause
In the primary act, that ho would render an opinion only ns to whether a man In
signing his namo In tho registration book gavo prima faclo evidence that ho could
read, in caso the point was raised at tho election tomorrow, lie was asked If a
man who could sign his numo would not thereby be held to be literate enough to
read also and thereby render himself Incapable, under tho law, of receiving assistance
in voting. Ho replied that unless an actual test arose tomortovv he would not render
an opinion.
MARINES LANDED AT SANTO DOMINGO
WASHINGTON, May 15. Admiral Caperton has landed marines at Santo Do
mingo, ho reported to tho Navy Department. Tho exact number was not told, but
Caperton has about 500 under his command.
TWELVE DEAD,
MANY HURT I
DU PONT BLAS
Explosion Wrecks Pow
Plant at Gibbstown, N J. J
City Trembles
MAN BLOWN TO ATOI
Several Believed Buried Und'f
Debris Firo Hampers
Reacuo Work
IT, IS VOr TOO LATE
to ttart reading
"THE SON OF TAIiZAN"
the beit 0 the Tarzan etorle
by
EDGAR RICE BURROUGHS
See- JPaye 9 of J" A is Utue
9 the
REINSTATE TELEGRAPHERS; AVERT STRIKE
WASHINGTON, May 15. Superintendent S. U. Halg, of New York, today or
dered reinstatement of the 11 loeked-out telegraphers at tho Western Union Tele
graph ofllco here. Tho men reinstated will receive, full reimbursement for time lost
slnco May 2, when the lock-out began, thus preventing, for the time at leust, a
nation-wide strike of union telegraphers.
HEAVY SNOW IN THREE WESTERN STATES
KLLSWOnTH, Neb.. May 15. A heavy snow fell here and throughout north
western Nebraska during tho night. Similar weather conditions prevail In parts of
Wyoming and South Dukotn.
CHRISTIANS MENACED IN SYRIA, U. S. HEARS
WASHINGTON, May 15, Danger of massacres of Christians In Syria has been
prlvntejly reported to the State Department, It was learned today, These advices In
dicated the expected murders might surpass In horror many of tho Armenian mas
nacres of the past. The Maronltes, a large Fronch-Cathollo group, Is reported to bo
In particular danger.
' SUBMARINE AND LINER CRASH OFF DELAWARE BAY
WASHINGTON, May 15. Navy Department officials today stated they had re
ceived a report of a collision last night between tho submarine K-2 and tho merchant
ship Aragon. The accident occurred near Northeast Lighthouse, 15 miles off Dela
ware Bay, The bowcap of tho submarine was sprung, but the damage was so
slight that both vessels were able to proceed under their own power to New York.
BELFAST EXPECTING VISIT FROM ASQUITH TODAY
BELFAST, Ireland, May 15. It Is unnounced that Premier Asqulth will visit
Belfast today,
DR. M. C. GROW, RUSSIAN SURGEON, VISITS MOTHER HERE
Dr. Malcom C. Grow, a surgeon In the Russian army, with the title of lieutenant
colonel, has arrived here for a brief visit with his mother In Media, Doctor Grow
'has been heaped with honors by the Czar for his work during the war. Ha will
return early pext week accompanied by his wife, who wUl spend the summer In
Petrograd. The work of the American Ited Cross In, Russia as a means of fostering
good friendship between America and Russia was particularly praised by the
physician.
WARSHIPS HERE PREPARE FOR PRACTICE CRUISE
The reserve section of the Atlantic fleet, which consists of 10 battleships, now
stationed at League Island, will begin preparations today to Jain the fleet at battle
practice on Monday, May 22, off the coast or Virginia. Supplies will he loaded for a
three-month cruise. The Na,vy "Yard was thronged wljh visitors yesterday, who
cume to say fcood-by j0 friends aboard the bttleshlps, which will sail next Saturday
Thfe usual number of sentries were on ditty, but the rules were temporarily rel.11.cd
ubout tho yard. Visitors- were forbidden to approach tho transport Henderson, now
on the ways preparatory, tor lauu'chlur on, June 17..
An explosion, declared to be tho most
structlve In Ufa and property tn tha his
of the factory, today wipod out a porih
of the. Rotauno plant of tb E. I du To
vdo Nemours Company, nt Gibbstown, rfj
The number of dead Ii estimated by'tl
company at 10, but searchers aro exploit
niu luiiit, 111 uio nunv jor oiner oouica. t.
Several men, known to Jiavo been In-
about tho buildings' destroyed, nre mlssiri
whllo somo of tho Injured will die.
FIRE HAMPERS RESCUE.
Fire, Immediately following tho first .
plosion, aded to the terror of tho dlsast
and made more difficult tho efforts nt r
cuo. homo of tho bodies may not bo reco
crcd owing to tho doublo danger from flan
mm tno ndjacent munition and powdsj
siorenouses.
The cause of the explosion Is unasce
tainea, tno company dec ar nr that the- (
nltrotoiuol building. In which tho first e
plosion occurred, contained tio substnrta
aangerous except, uy contact; Investigate
by the Department of Justice may be asks
in view or una ract.
THE KNOWN DEAD.
The known dead aro:.
FREDERICK LAWLEY, assltant suoerh
tendent of the plant, 48 years old, at)
a resident or Woodbury.
GEORGE MARSH, foreman of trlnlt rot
luol plnnt and a. resident of Paulaboro,!
FRANK BAMDENI, laborer, of Glbb
town.
EDWARD YANZEY, workman, 46 yea'd
01a, or Woodbury.'
FLOYD HODEL, workman, 35 years Old
or Woodbury, !
Known to be missing Is:
JOHN VOKE, laborer, of Woodbury.
LIST OF INJURED.
Injured and In hospitals are:
WILLIAM GEITZ, workman, 60 years oil
or 43 West, Centre street, wopdbur;
Both legs broken, lacerations and gene
contusions. In Cooper Hospital. -dfl
LONIOE TABIAIOX, workman. 38 yi
old. llvlnc at Gibbstown. Klcht
der" brokcnrndcerdtlons and contusion
In Cooper 'Hospital.
RUNE EVERLY, workman, 32 years 6leV
Oibbstown. concussion qr the brain, t
enil lacerations. In Cooper Hospital.
CHARLES HERITAGE, workman, 50 ycati
old, of Woodbury. Both legs Blown
At emergency hospital on grounds'.
At 2 o'clock tha dupont company ga-
out Its first estimate of the number of dead
This Bet tho total of ten, but statements
sury)v;lng..men..whQ had been In tha ylclnltl
of the. destroyed buildings made tins tot
much "higher, some fixing the number; d
missing as more tnan by.
BLOWN TO ATOMS.
Geltz told a physician In tho hospital thai
ho was riding on the back or a truck, whW
was drawn by a mule, When the explosia
occurred the truck was being hauled ln$l
the building-In which theexp!oslon occuire;
and Itu driver was blown to atoms. Geld
was hurled high In the air.
Tho Injured men were brought to Coon
Hospital In private automobiles while doi
ens of their fellows, they Bay, were treat
In emergency hospitals on the grounds ara
In Gibbstown. The companys force
physicians was overwhelmed by tha demah
for their services and were obliged to
upon volunteers from Gibbstown, Woodbue
and other towns In South Jersey ndlac
to the powder plant. These responded
all sorts of available vehicles and the in
provlsed hospital on the grounds extend
over a wide area.
Along the Delaware River front the soup
of the explosion was distinctly heard and ;
ports from neighboring towns told of dan
ago done by tne severe viDratlons.
Many houses In South Philadelphia wed
rocked, and crockery was broken, as
was knocked from cupboards alid Va)I& A
Inquiries from surrounding places pour
Into the Navy Yard, wnicn in turn besoua
Fort duPont and Fort Mifflin for Informs,
tion In the rear mat tne uovernment po
der magazines had been blown up.
At the police station, at 15th street ar
bnyoer avenue, ma ucioiumon ana accon
nanyine vibrations were so pronounced th
the sergeant-ln-charge called up City Hs
for Information, bellevtpg that the cavil
lay within tho boundrles or the city.
PEDESTRIANS SHOCKED
Many nersona on the streets at tho tin
w'ere affected by the explosion, which rock
the ground beneath their feet, Frighten
women tn south pniiaaeipma ana in n
southern part of West Philadelphia rush'
to telephones and comhmnlcated with thes
husbands for details 01 tne strange occujf
re nee.
Local offices of the powder apd munltloJ
makers were kept, busy by Inquiries Iroti
relatives of employes Qt tno mills.
They In turn sought long-distancs In
formation from uipoauoro,. Wilmington an
other nearby powaer-maKing centres.
The source pf tha explosion was flnalH
located, but not before newspaper, teM
graph and telephone onices naa be
swamped by calls fojr Information th
mounted into the thousands.
Along the Jersey shore of the, 33eTvii
River, from uipucester iioniysraroi a
southward for several miles, tne sveck
the explosion was distinctly fe!t,T
ninws. too. contributed to the number I
questioners who sought Information in l
city.
GLASS WQRKS SHAKEN.
At the Plant of th Quaker City Gl
Works, at SOth street and Baltimore a,vnvi
two windows were mown ouiwara ty
exnloslon. This was in tn dynamo ro
In the showroom. In another building- p!
of cut glass were unotxen trvra sneivti 1
broken.
Explanation at this freak of the esploaLi
In damaging a place, so remote from
source Is furnished by officials of the tele
company, who say tnat previous exploa
at Gibbstown have always, ben felt at th
nlant. Investigation by experts (mewed
a stratum of rock lies directly unaUtr
class works, which leads In untntsrrj
lint to the foundation upoa which. th v j
4r plant l M'vuswH" ?vu. vjurnvi
an explosions is cornea, -rua Brent, tn
oko, rerce. oiobh ib mm writ
F jrn
