Sir Roger Casement Is Placed on
HARRISBURG ijjfgSg TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 110
CASEMENT GOES
ON TRIAL FOR
HIGH TREASON
Internationally Known Head of
Rebellion and a Soldier
Given Hearing
SEDUCED P R I S O N E R S
Accused of Conducting Cam
paign to Get Irish Held in
Germany to Help
By Associated Press
London, May 15.—Sir Roger Cstce
ment, who only a few years ago
achieved international fame for the
services he rendered his government
in the exposure of the Putumayo rub
ber atrocities, to-day faced the bar in
an ordinary police court for a pre
liminary examination to determine
whether he should be held for trial
on the charge of high treason against
the same government in connection
with the rebellion in Ireland. .Be
side Casement stood Daniel Julian
Bailey, a soldier, who faced a similar
(. barge.
Not in many years has so much
popular interest been manifested 111 a.
case before the courts. This is due not
only to the prominence of Casement
and to speculation as to his ultimate
fate, but also because it has been ex
pected evidence would be produced
which would lay bare a widespread
plot resulting in the revolt.
A number of relatives and friends
of Casement, including seven hand
somely gowned women, reached court
a' an early hour and were provided
with seats well to the front.
The stage was all set when the prin
cipal was led to the chair. Sir John
Dickinson, who presided, the lawyers
and the witnesses all having taiien
their places before Casement arrived
at 1u.40 o'clock and entered the dock.
There was a hush of expectancy .i- he
entered the room and every face was
turned in his direction.
Ear from appearing deeply disturb
ed at his position, Sir Roger main
tainel much of his characteristic com
placence. He smiled and nodded as
he sawfriends in the courtroom.
With Sir Roger was Daniel Bailey,
an Irish soldier captured by the Ger
mans early in the war. He went from
Germany to Ireland in the submarine
with Sir Roger, and was taken prison
er at Tralee.
As the examination' proceeded Sir
itoger showed in his movements some
slight indications of the nervous strain
under which he was laboring. He paid
strict attention to the proceedings,
however, and occasionally took notes
which he handed to his counsel.
Smiles at King
The aitotney general here intro
duced a cramatic touch by having
brought into the court a green rebel
lias, which he said Casement had
brough from Germany to Ireland.
Eoi a moment the prisoner sat with
eyes tixed on the floor, refusing to
look at this emblem of the rebellion.
Then he glanced up at the flag and
smiled derisively. Most of the time
during the attorney general's address
he -tri with his elbow on his knees,
stroking his beard—a characteristic
pose of the prisoner ever since his
incarceration in the Tower of Lon
don. He appeared oblivious of his
surroundings. but occasionally he
clanced up quickly, showing he was
listening to the proceedings, notwith
standing his apparent inattention.
Seduced Prisoners
fn opening the case for the crown
'he attorney general charged that.
Casement had conducted a systematic
[Continued on Page 13]
Widely Known Men Speak
at Y. M. C. A. Convention
By Associated Press
Cleveland, Ohio, May 15.—John D.
Rockefeller, Jr.. Major-General Leon
ard Wood and Assistant Secretary of
the Navy Franklin D. Roosevelt were
■speakers at to-day's sessions of the
international Y. M. C. A. convention
here.
Rockefeller spoke this forenoon at
the general convention on "Every
'hristian at Work for His Fellow-
Men: How Shall This Be Accom
plished?" He told of welfare work
jeing done in the mines of Colorado
ivhich are owned by the Rockefeller
nterests.
THE WEATHER
For llarrlMburg and vicinity! («en
ernlly cloudy weather to-night
ami Tucaday, probably NhowerN;
warmer to-night with ioweiit
temperature about <M> degree*.
For Hantern Pennsylvania: Cloudy
to-night and 'i'ueMday, probably
Mliovtern; warmer to-night; mod
erate cant to Mouth wlndn.
River
The *un<|tiehaiinn river and all Ita
trlbutaricM will probably fall
Mlotvly or remain nearly mtatlon
ary, except the Upper North
llraaeh and I pper Went llranch
may rl»e Tue*day an a reault of
nhowerN indicated within the next
thirt>-alx hourn. A Mtagc of
about 4.11 feet Im Indicated f«»r
llarrlMburg Tuesday morning.
General Condition*
The atorm that wan central over
>ew Mexico, Saturday morning,
linn moved northcaatw ard with
IncreaMlnfC intensity and IM now
central over the L pper MIMNIM«IP
pi Valley. It haw cauned general
raliiN In the MlMNourl Valley.
Temperaturea are - to IS dcgrceM
higher than on Saturday morning
In the Lake Region, the Ohio \ al
ley and KaMt TcnnenNee and In
(he Middle Atlantic States.
Temperature: 8 a. m., f»2.
Sun: Rlacm, 4:10 a. m.; aeti, Til 3
p. ra.
Moom Full moon. May 17, ©ill
a. m.
River Stage! 4.4 feet above low
water mark.
Yeaterday'a Weather
Vflgheat temperature, M».
i.owcNt temperature, RO.
Mean temperature, ,%4.
.\ormal temperature, HI.
BV CARRIKR O CENTS A. WEEK.
SIXGI.E COPIES 2 CENTS.
PENNSYLVANIA
PRIMARIES ARE OF j
NATIONAL IMPORT
Voters of All Parties Will De
cide on Issues and Candi
dates Tomorrow
REMARKABLE CAMPAIGN
Bitter Contests in Both Parties
With All Sides Claiming
Victory
191# PRIMARY
Polls open at usiinl places from
7 a. m. to 7 p. m. to-morrow.
Regular clecUon boards in
charge.
Only official ballots may be
voted.
Liquor selling pla<-es must be
closed from 6 a. m. to 8 p. m.
Pennsylvania's primary election to
morrow will be of national import
ance. Republicans throughout the
United States are watching It as
closely for signs of the trend of
popular opinion as they did In 1912.
Democrats are noting the result of
the struggle for control of the party
machinery. Bull Moosers are await
inr the poll of votes to see what
strength is manifested.
To-morrow the voters of all parties
will express their preference for presi
dent and elect national delegates and
alternates-at-large for the first time,
the direct primary having superseded
the State convenUon. There wiH be
elected district delegates and alter
nates and members of State commit
tees.
fandidates will be nominated for 1
Cnlted States Senator, Justice of the'
Supreme Court, State Treasurer,
Auditor General and Congress-at-'
l.arge, the State electing four of the j
latter national representatives in No-,
\ ember. Congressional candidates,
for State Senate in twenty-five
districts and men will be named for
207 seats in the State House of Rep
resentatives.
A Remarkable Campaign
The campaign closing to-night will
long be remembered for the bitter
ness of the contests within the Re
publican and Democratic parties. The
results will not only affect the careers
of national figures, but also have
bearing upon the future of the Re
publican party because of the over
tit r»s for reunion of the elements
which divided four years ago. On the
Democratic side the reorganization of
the party five years ago is to be on
trial.
Political activity of quite an un
usual nature has been manifested by
leaders and partisans of the opposing
factions in the two parties. Speeches,
statements and editorials have been
used together witli advertisements,
circulars, leaflets and handbills have
been put out several times a day and
organization of what in previous years
has been the most effective type has
occupied the political strategists. The
laws enacted at the last Legislature
have had their effect and Interests of
v; rious kinds have taken hands one
way or another in both parties.
There has been no predominant issue.
There have been a dozen big questions
and they have been presented in many
instances with gall and wormwood.
Governor vs. Senator
A parallel to the historic Republi
can factional contest of 1895 is seen
in Ihe present battle within the domi
nant party. Governor Brumbaugh,
backed by the Vare influences In
Philadelphia, the Magee forces in
Allegheny and various anti-Penrose
elements left from the campaign of
1914, is contending for the mastery
of the State organization, his candi
dacy for the presidential nomination
being the rallying point. In opposi
tion is Senator Boies Penrose, aligned
with the McNichol strength in Phila
delphia and a coalition in Allegheny
vcmarkable for the men who have
been drawn together, all backed by
strong organizations throughout the
Interior counties.
The Governor has been assailed with
a virulence unknown for a generation,
charges being made that he violated
the corrupt practices act In not re
porting contributions. The Governor
[Continued on Page 13]
FIVE CRVISKRS FOR CIVILIANS
By Associated Press
San Diego, Cal., May 15.—Five ar
-1 mored cruisers, the South Dakota,
j Colorado, West Virginia, Maryland
; and Pittsburgh, probably will be avail
j able for the training of civilian sailors
between August 15 and November 12,
Rear Admiral William Eullam, Pacific
reserve fleet commander, said to-day.
Several hundred Callfornians are ex
pected to enroll for the series of war
i maneuvers off the coast which will
I start August 15.
TAFT WITNESS IN RIGGS CASE
By Associated Press
j Washington, D. C„ May 15.—Ex
i President Taft was first to-day on the
i witness list in the perjury trial of
three officers of the Riggs National
Bank, called as a character witness to
testify in behalf of the bank's presi
dent, C. C. Glover, one of the indicted
men. The case of the prosecution has
j not been made, but it agreed to a re
quest. by counsel for the defense to
allow one witness to testify at this
time.
METHODISTS FAVOR UNION
Saratoga Springs. N. Y., May 15.
| The proposa' to reunite the Methodist
i Episcopal church and the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, which have
(been separated since 1845, will be
j mane th • order of spectal business at
tr morrows session.
The report endorses the proposed
unification in the belief that such
union wcuU". hasten the development
of a truly world church. The rep.vt
recommends that the general confer
ence be the supreme governing body
.of the reunited church.
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, MAY 15, 1916.
Youngsters Brighten Polyclinic Hospital by Planting Flowers on the Lawn
ML m r
The Junior Auxiliary of the Polyclinic Hospital spent Saturday afternoon planting flowers on the lawn in front
of that institution. The girls shown above are: Bottom row. left to right, Miss Gertrude Bastian, Miss Roselle
Stanford and Miss Esther Koons; second row, left to right. Miss Frances Paterson, Miss.Helen DeWalt, Miss Mil
dred Rowe, Miss Harriet Bastian, Miss Mae Gross, Miss Mildred Bogar; third row, left to light, Miss Myra Granim,
head nurse at the hospital: Mrs. E. A. Nlcodemus, who has charge of the junior work, and Miss Katherine Landis,
superintendent of the hospital.
The girls since the institution opened have furnished funds and purchased a bed for one of the wards, and
during the holiday seasons decorate the interior with flowers, ferns and potted plants and small trees. On Saturday
the plants which the auxiliary purchased were planted, including a long row of scarlet sage, and a circular bed of
geraniums, nasturtiums and other flowers.
Expect to Dispose of
Army Reorganization Bill
Before End of This Week
By Associated Prist
Washington, May 15.—The compro
mise army reorganization bill provid
ing for a regular army of 206,000 men
in time of peace, being whipped into
final shape to-day by the conference
committee of the Senate and House
for the approval of Congress, it prob
ably will be laid before the House to- !
morrow and the Senate soon thereaf
ter. The measure is expected to be on
President Wilson's desk for his signa
ture before the end of the week.
With the army bill out of the way,
Congress then will be ready to take up
the naval building program. The
House naval committee will take a j
final vote on the measure Thursday'
and present it to the House shortly j
afterwards.
Central High Debaters
Win State Championship
The Central High School debating
team Saturday at State College won
the State championship.
Orators from this city, in both de
bates. defended the affirmative side
of the question. "Kesolved, That In
ternational Peace Would be Best Pro
moted by Extensive Warlike Prepara
tions on the Part of All Great Na
tions." The team included Harold
Eckert, Homer Kreider, Miss Ruth
Scatty and Ezra Strohm, alternate.
In the afternoon. Central captured
the honors from teams representing
schools of Clearfield and Center
counties, and in the evening defeated
the Clinton county team.
Is Against Fishermen's
Licenses, Dapp Repeats
Edward Dapp. candidate for the
Legislature on the Republican ticket,
in reply to several letter of inquiry,
to-day said that he is unalterably op
posed to the proposed fishermen's li
cense bill, which would cause every man
who went fishing an expense of ai least
a dollar. Dapp is the only candidate
out openly against this measure, and
in giving his reasons said: "As a work
ingman 1 know that few people can
afford a fine for a few afternoons or
evenings of fishing. I think tlie bill is
unjust." Dapp is also lined up for
local option, increased relief for volun
teer firemen and labor legislation in
general. He is endorsed by the Penn
sylvania Federation of Labor.
Seven Bishops Instead of
Five For Methodist Church
By Associated Press
Saratoga Springs. N. Y., May 15.—A
report submitted by the committee on
episcopacy to the General Conference
of the Methodist Episcopal Church to
day prepared the way for the imme
diate balloting for bishops of the
church.
The report recommended that seven
bishops be chosen. This is an increase
of two over the present number. One
of the new bishops is to be assigned to
Korea, where the work has been su
pervised by a missionary bishop, and
the other is to Jill the new episcopal
residence at Detroit, Mich.
33rd Annual P. 0. of A.
Convention Opens Tomorrow
Delegates will arrive in the city this
evening and to-morrow morning from
all parts of the State for the thirty
third annual State convention of the
Patriotic Order of Americans, to be
held May 16-17 in the Chestnut Street
Hall. Addresses of welcome will be
made by Senator E. E. Beidleman and
Mayor E. S. Meals, with invocation by
the Rev. D. E. Rupley. There will be
a reception and ball to-night.
PHIIjA. EXPOSITION OPENS
Philadelphia, Pa., May 15. A
wireless message from President Wil
son to-day opened the Philadelphia
To-day and To-morrow Civic Exposi
tion, an enterprise arranged to show
the civic, educational, religious and
welfare activities of the city as they
are to-day and then by contrast the
plans for a great and better city in
the to-morrow.
WIFE SLAIN, HUSBAND HELD
Sharon, Pa., May 15. Following a
quarrel yesterday Joseph Domokosh.
aged 41, is alleged to have shot and
killed his wife. Several hundred per
sons surrounded Domokosh. He kept
the crowd at bay by flourishing his re
volve". Someone threw a brick, strik
ing Domokish on the head, knocking
him senseless. At thi» time the police
arrived and took the man to Jaii, <
SHARP FIGHTING
IS RAGING ALONG i
WESTERN FRONT
Artillery Is in Play at Verdun
and on Both Sides of
Champagne
Sharper fighting is now in progress
in other sectors of the western front
than in the Verdun region, upon which
attention has been chiefly centered for
nearly three months past.
Notable activity has been reported
recently along the British lines in
Northern France and Flanders and
to-day Paris records brisk action by
the artillery on both sides in the
Champagne, the scene of the main
French drive in last Septembers
offensive.
At Verdun the play of the heavy
Runs is being kept up to some extent,
there having been bombardments In
the sectors of the Avocourt wood and
Hill 304, northwest of the fortress.
No Peace Till Kaiser
Sues For It, President
of France Insists in Talk
Nancy, May 15. President Poin
caire. in an address here yesterday,
responded to Germany's declaration re
garding peace contained in the Ger
man reply to the American note.
"France does not want Germany to
tender peace," said the President, "but
wants her adversary to ask for peace."
The President then made known
clearly the only kind of peace which
would be acceptable to France. The
address was delivered at the Molitor
garrison before a large number of Lor
raine refugees to whom the President,
after expressing his sympathies and re
newing promises of solicitude and pro
tection, said:
"France will not expose her sons to
the dangers of new aggressions. The
Central Kmpires. haunted by remorse
for having brought on the war and ter
rified by the indignation and hatred
they have stirred up in mankind, are
trying to-day to make tlie world be
lieve that the Entente Allies alone are
responsible for the prolongation of
hostilities—a dull irony which will de
ceive no one.
"Food Dictator" For
Germany; Crisis in Cities
Berlin, Hay 15. The Koelnische
Zeitung announces the impending ap
pointment of a "food dictator" to take
charge of and control all matters con
cerning food in the empire.
Dominican Rebels Quit
Rather Than Fight U. S.
| Santo Domingo, Dominican Repub
lic, May 15.—The warning of the Am
erican minister. W. W. Russell, that
the city of Santo Domingo would be
; taken by force unless it was given up
!by the rebels not later than Sunday
morning resulted in the evacuation of
the city last night.
CHICAGO PLANS PARADE
By Associated Press
Chicago, May IS. Encouraged by
the size of New York's parade last Sat
urday in favor of adequate prepara
tion for defense a call is being pre
pared to-day by William M. Lewis,
secretary of the Tllinois Naval League,
to business and professional men offi
cials of commercial organizations and
civic associations to formulate plans
fora similar demonstration in Chicago.
Tentatives suggested for the demon
stration are June 10, during national
convention week and July 4.
WILSON S HACK FROM CRUISE
By Associated Press
Washington, May 15. President
and Mrs. Wilson returned early to-day
from their week-end cruise aboard the
naval yacht Mayflower. The home
ward trip was without special incident.
23-YEAR-OLD MAN ADOPTED
Caryl Edward Lightner, who has
made hiR home with Mr. and Mrs.
Reuben H. Gilman since he was 10
days old. was adopted by them to-day.
He will take the name of Caryl Ed
uuwed. fjllmaiy tie la sow 23 yary
Ex-Senator Thompson,
Blind, Appears Before
Dauphin Courts Today
For the first, time since he was
blinded and nearly killed almost two
years ago by the furious explosion of
a premature dynamite blast, ex-State
Senator Alexander Thompson, Lykens,
and a member of the Dauphin county
bar, appeared in court to-day. He was
called as a witness in the injunction
proceeding that hail been brought by
the I.vkens Sewer Association to pre
vent Alary Irving Fisher from making
certain private sewer connections with
the pipes of the association.
Mills and Gibb, Big N. Y.
Importers Are Bankrupt
By Associated Press
New York, May 16. An involun
tary petition in bankruptcy was filed
by creditors in the Federal Court to
day against Mills and Otbb. one Of
the largest white goods importing and
jobbing firms in the country. The
liabilities are stated as upwards of
$2,000,000. The assets are not given.
GERTRUDE TOWER, HURT IX
AUTO ACCIDENT, IMPROVED
Philadelphia, May 15. —Miss Ger
trude Tower, daughter of ex-Ambas
; ssador and Mrs. Charlemagne Tower,
; who was thrown from a motor car
driven by Thomas H. Dougherty, Jr.,
in Fairmount Park, Saturday night,
was reported to be on the road to
recovery at the Presbyterian Hospital
to-day.
FIRE ON PETERS' MOUNTAIN
Special to the Telegraph
Dauphin, Pa.. May 15. The en-
I tire lumber tract on Peters' Mountain,
; owned by Seidel & Son, of Marysville,
1 was destroyed by fire on Friday night.
I A large amount of lumber, ready for
market, was burned. The loss is
; heavy.
FIRE DESTROYS THEATER
Allentown, Pa., May 15.—The 1-y
--ceum. Allentown's largest moving pic
i (lire theater, in Ihe heart of the busi
| ness section, was destroyed by fire yes
| terday with a loss of $25,000. Sey
[ eral stores in the same building also
j were destroyed.
SOUTHERN VETERANS GATHER
By Associated Press
Birmingham. Ala., May 15. This
city was thronged with Confederate
veterans and visitors he'"® to partici
pate in the twenty-sixth annual con
federate reunion which begins to-mor
row. The Vanguard of the old soldiers
i and visitors began to arrive yesterday
and incoming regular and special
i trains to-day brought thousands of
| others.
SIX ON* DIRIGIBLE LOST
By Associated Press
j Paris, May 15. The dirigible bal
! loon which is reported from Toulon to
, have fallen into the sea off the Sarlin
ian coast belonged to the French navy.
An official statement issued to-day says
: that the balloon caught Are from an
unexplained cause while flying over
the Mediterranean last Friday. The
remains of the envelope have been
towed ashore at Toulon. Four of the
six persons aboard are known to have
! perished and their bodies have been
recovered. The fate o ftlie remaining
! two is unknown, but it was feared
they also were lost.
HIGHWAYMEN FIRE ON TAXI
I City police are searching for three
men who early this morning with re-
I volvers drawn, attempted to hokl up a
| taxlcab at the entrance of Cameron
park. In South Cameron street. Sam
uel Kandler was driving the car, and
instead of obeying the demand to stop,
put on full speed. One shot waa flrcd
but went wild. Kendler reported that
attempted hold-up to the police.
STRICKEN IX AUTO
Middletown, Pa.. May 15.—Stricken
with indigestion while driving his au
tomobile to Royalton yesterday after
noon, Samuel ,K. Houck, prominent
business man, collapsed forward over
the wheel. The machine was stopped
by his 12-year-old grandson. The man
was carried Into the Eddie Collins
Club, where he died. Mr. llouck, who
was fil years of age, is survived by
bis wife, Annie, and one daughter,
Mrs. H. H. Deimler. of Chamber Hill; j
two brothers and two sisters. Funeral
services will be held at St. Peter's
Lutheran Church Wednesday morning
at 10 o'clock. The Rev. Fuller Herg
stresser will officiate. Burial will be
niaria *L Middletown. ,
HURRY NEGRO TO
PRISON TO AVOID
RESCUE ATTEMPT
Ominous Rumors of Effort to
Storm Lykcns Lockup Causes
Quick Action
HELD AS A FOR GE R
Passed Worthless Checks
Drawn on Rogus Signature
of Mine Superintendent
Special to the Telegraph
Lykens, May 15. Ominous reports
of an effort to «orm the lockup here
Saturday night by friends of Everett
Burke, a negro, for the purpose of res
cue caused the authorities to hurry the
, prisoner to the Dauphin county Jail
at Harrisburg. He was held without
bail.
Burke was held for court on charges
of forging and passing forged checks
in this borough Saturday following
a hearing before George W. Hensel,
Justice of the peace. One of the
checks for $18.50 bore the forged sig
nature of David Randall, superintend
ent of the Short Mountain colliery and
was cashed by J. F. Myers, a merch
ant;, two others for slt> each bore the
signature of Thomas Evans and were
cashed oy A. P. Schofstall and T. A.
Hensel. All the checks were drawn on
the Miners' Deposit bank. No one by
the name of Thomas Evans could be
found and no account had been held
in his name.
Burke gave his residence as Seneca
street, Harrisburg. Justice Hensel
said he got wind of a plot to rescue
Burke.
SOLDIER'S HI1)1,K RETURNED
Marysvllle. Pa., May t.">.—After a
lapse of lifty-two years a Bible, lost in
the Charleston Prison during the Civil
War, in the Kail of 1864, was returned
Ito Miss Martha Reem, sister of the
| owner, Adam Reem. who served with
Company C, 188 th Pennsylvania Regi
ment. Vleem never returned from the
war. It is believed that he starved
to der.th in a Southern prison.
The Bible was found in the prison
by J. H. Morgan, of St. Cloud, Via.,
who was also a prisoner at Charles
ton, and was returned by him to Miss
Reem.
wOfcw w<HW>—— w*Uwy«T
! CRIMINAL PUBLICLY BURNED TO DEATH ?
I Waco, Tex., May 15.—With 15,000 persons as wit- j
nc:.:-:s including women and children, Jesse Washington, 5
i-Cf io toy, who confessed to criminally assaulting and mur- f
deiir. u Mrs. Lucy Fryar, seven miles south of here, last
Monday afternoon was taken from the courtroom ar.d |
burned to death on the public square. A
VIGOROUS NOTE AGAINST SEIZURE OF MAILS |
Washington, May 15.—The American government is JL
preparing a protest characterized by officials as "very T
. vigorous" against the interference with mails to and from I
J I the United State by Great Britain. A note to be sent < '
| forward in the near future will take the position that the
I J United States can no longer countenance seizure and deten- ►
; tiun of mails to and from the United States, particularly ! '
, those concerning neutrals. i J
? EIGHT KILLED IN EXPLOSION
Gibstown, N. J., May 15.—Eight men are reported ki:' , i
. ed and a dozen injured by an explosion to-day at the i |
< Repar.no plant of the Du Pont Powder Company near here. 1
I i ' rj
', TELEGRAPHERS GET RAISE
| Pittsburgh, May 15.—1t became known here to-day
I that all telegraph operators on the Pennsylvania lines east' ?
* 9 of Pittsburgh have been notified of a wage readjustment.
I The advance, it was stated, was individual and made accord- >
4 ■ ing to the merit of the men and their length of service.
FIND TROY'S BODY? « f
: Harrisburg—Harry Mace, steamboat operator at High- (
| » spire found a badly decomposed body buried in the mud and 1
j sand along the shore this morning at 9 o'clock. It is be
j i lieved that the man is C. J. Troy. 1447 Berryhill street, who Y
[ fell off the Cumberland Valley Railroad bridge, April 10. f
| M. E Tioy, of Carlisle, is on his way to the city to identify ' »
the body if possible.
j AMERICANS KILL THREE BANDITS I '
Lake Itascate, Mex., May 14.—8y Wireless to Colum
j. bus N. M., May 15.—Three bandits, including Julio Car-j >
denas, the Villa leader, were killed in a skirmish with an
! American detachment, near Rubio ranch, twenty miles east >
< ' of here to-day. ' J
MARRIAGE LICENSES ~ ,»
liny A. FrttrrkolT aß <l I.oltlo C. William*. Lrknia.
Kduln S«oj»e llefflefliiKer itnU Jennie Irene Sillier* llummchtoun. JL
i W^iwmll Vfrii iiW. ii'^i'iiJl
CITY EDITION
16 PAGES
SCOTT RETURNS
FROM MEETINGS
WITH HOPES OF
EARLY ACTION
Despite Disagreement at Con*
ference U. S. Chief of Staff
Believes a Protocal Will
Be Formulated With De
Facto Government Soon
DIPLOMATS WILL THEN
TAKE OVER SITUATION
New Concentration of Troop:
by General Funston Being
Conducted Satisfactorily;
Incendiary Fires Along*
Border
By .Associated Press
Washington, May 15.—Major-Genera!
Hugh 1* Scott, ehler of stuff of tin
army, returned to-day from his borde
conferences with General Obregon.
i hopeful for the situation, despite tlr
fact that the conferences resulted l.i
no formal agreement for co-operative
| action. The chief of staff conferred
j with Secretary Baker, but made no
i formal report.
I General Scott will see Secretary
I Lansing to-morrow and meanwhile ii"
[steps will be taken to reopen diplomat! •
negotiations for a formal agreemen*
with General Carranza. Secretary Bak
er indicated, however, that Genera'
I Scott thought there would be no great
I delay in arriving at an underslundin.
j and formulating a protocol.
I General Scott's discussions with offi
eials probably will occupy several
days. Not until tliey arc completed
will diplomatic conferences be ar
ranged with Kiiseo Arredondo, Mex
ican ambassador-designate, on th"
disposition of American troops ami
the vexatious question of protecting
the American border from Mexican
; bandit raids.
General Scott was due to arriv
; early to-day. President Wilson's re
turn from a week-end yachting tri
also was set for about the same Unit,
[Continued on Page 13]
