4
1 w
LY KXPRE
Ton will Fin AH tie
Local News EreryDsT
in the Daily Express.
News By Wire Daily
from the United Preu
Anociation.
NUMBER 113
VOLUME SEVENTEEN.
CHICKA8HA, OKLAHOMA, MONDAY, MAY 15, 1918.
jJAI
r
K
ELOQUENT
SERMON IS
DELIVERED
Dr. Wray, Pastor of First Baptist Church,
Addresses Inspiring Message to
Members of Graduating Class
of High School
CHURCH CROWDED TO
UTMOST CAPACITY
Many are Turned Away; Other Ministers
Participate in Service; C. H .S. Chorus
Sings Splendid Anthems; Sum
mary of Discourse
Probubly one of the most interest
ing, eloquent discussions ever deliv
ered froin a Chit-kasha pulpit was the
sermon addressed last night to the
member ot 1U1G graduating clasa of
tlio high school, by Dr. John R. Wray,
pastor of the First Baptist church of
Chickasha.
At an early hour the public followed
the forty-one members of the gradu
ating class into the Epworth Methodist
church. By 8 o'clock the full seating
capacity ot the church, 1100, was oc
cupied and standing room was at a pre
mium, while fully 500 people were
turned away from the church.
The stud nts were seated in the
central Section of pews, while the
scuool" choir took its place lu front
ot the pipe organ.
Under the directorship of Miss Ma
bel Bycrs the school choir sang the
opening hymn.
Hev. Lawrence L. Cohen Jr., pastor
of the Epworth Methodist church pro
nounced the invocation auu then the
congregation joined lu singing "Coro
nation," followed by the reading of the
ttuth Psalm, by Hev. E. B. Tels, pastor
of the Presbyterian church. The
scriptural reading v.as followed by
"Let the Heaven ile Glad." reudered
by the high school chorus.
Dr. Wray based his sermon on the
ninth verse of the first chapter of
Jeremiah. In his opelng sentences i lnat tnpy were very poor anu nar(j
he showed that U behooves all, even J preHlicd; that fche and her father and
from life's b-gini':-. to consider- the i,er stepmother lived amicably togeth
cncl of mortal existence; that Is the cr; that there was a large family of
ultimate and the highest design for children and that she had talked the
which life Is lived; the way Of life ( matter over at home and It was
should bo used and not abused. "The thought she" might come to Chickasha
true import and object of life is of such anij r,-ur some sort of employment
Infinite importance to every ono who J amj turn a part of her earnings over
has a life to live that no sane man ( t0 her folks to be used in their 'fight
or woman w ill proceed far" upon the With the wolf which howled at the
earthly journey without asking him- door of their humble home,
self or herself 'Where am I going?' " The girl said that she arrived in
The. i-aker dwelt upon the neces-1 Chickasha Friday - evening; that she
slty of including the future lu all plans did not have much money; that she
and said that this wa one ot the.Becurcd lodging for the . night ' and
marks of a tuan's mental and spiritual ! walked the streets all day Saturday
superiority. 'Forethought reveals the in hunting work; that she knew a Hitle
difference between the child and the slumt house work; that she had been
man, between the savage and the cit(- raised in the, cotton fields and knew
ltizod man, ' between the successful more about chopping cotton than she
man and the failure." did about baking bread; that she
Perseverance, the speaker said, was , could find no employment and when
tin essential of success; by pcrever- night came on she was without money
ance men ol genius had flashed forth with which to procure food and lodg
In the fields of art, of science, of gov- lug, having spent her last cent for
eminent. , a room Friday night and breakfast
"Never sfnee God commanded Adam Saturday morning. 1
to subdue the earth, haii the race ofj The unfortunate girl said that she
man nmdo an upward stride- without had remained in the Rock Island de
a bitter struggle, while those who light pot Saturday night until about 10
the lamp of tru'h and push back the o'clock, when a well-dressed, smooth
curtain of darkness which enshrouds shaven young man came to her, per
the earth may do so only by persistent! suaded her to tell him her story and
effort and faith and belief in God.'
God, cannot be cheated. . There Is no promising to take her to a "respecta
crown without its cross. Your di-jble place," where she would be cared
plomas mean nothing If they do not for through the night. The girl stated
mean sacrifice; they are worthless if. that the man conducted her north in
they have not cost you something and the railway yards, and when she be
do not lead from the hill of beginning came suspicious and refused to ac
to broader knowledge and nobler liv- company her further, he attacked her
mg" , land threw her to the ground. The
The speaker dwelt upon the great ; girl tought off her assailant aud made
need of the guiding power of Deity , her escape In the darkness. She al
throug"h life. He said the successful leges she escaped unharmed other
man must look beyond the present and . than a few bruises where her body was
lay the foundations of the future, not hurled across the railway tracks. She
depending upon luck ' or something told the officers that she could identify
turning up. The mariner who puts to, her assailant.
sea without a compass or a chart Fearing to return to the depot the
inevitably meets with shipwreck. And
so with man in any walk of life,
"The achievement of earthly sue-
cess cannot bring satisfaction to the
, soul of man, who is created on too
grand a scale to be decked in the frills
of fashion or charmed with the din
of applause or the empty jingle of a.
golden toy.
"The certain true and abiding end is
to glorify God. The life that does that
glorifies itself.' God is the great and
determining factor in life. No life
can reach the ultimate end without
God. Conduct and character should
be determined by motives pleading to
God, as He alone knows our possibili
ties and opportunities. He plans for
118."
In the latter part of his sermon Dr
Wray spoke as follows:
"Much is said now a days about the
broad-minded, liberal man, whose
breadth and liberality are magnified
as virtues.s But who is this broad
minded man? You will find he is one
whose courtesy shapes his convictions,
whoise preferences are guided by poli
cy, whose energies are regulated by
environment, who trims his sails for
every popular breeze, limber as a twig
jf weeping willows, yielding and spine
less as a Jelly fish, like Aesop's bat
neither beast nor bird not only dl
(Continued on Page Three.)
GIRL TELLS
SAD STORY
TO POLICE
Comes to Chickasha from Humble Home
Near Alex, in Search of Work;
Barely Escapes Would-Be
Betrayer
Ono of the most pathetic stories
which Chickasha has known was told
to the police yesterday, following the
, finding of Eva Sttdridge, by Officer
Jack Marshall, in an empty passenger
coach in the Rock Island railway
yards.
It was a story of the poor and inno
cent country girl, unsophisticated and
without money, coming from the hum
ble home of her tenant-farmer father,
to the city In an effort to secure some
sort of honest and honorable employ
ment whereby she might be enabled
to" help the father support the large
family of children.
Eva Standrldge stated to the offi
cers that her home wbb wfth her
father, her stepmother and a large
family of brothers and sisters on a
farm near Alex; that they had recently
moved to this section from Arkansas;
enticed her away from the depot by
girl climbed iuto an empty passenger
j coach on one ot me siueuacKs in me
Rock Island yards, where she remained
until found by the officer Sunday
morning,
The city authorities had the pirl
taken to a local rooming house and
this morning a ticket was "bought to
(Alex and she was placed aboard the
train for that place.x
CHICAGOIS
PREPARING
FOR CROWD
Delegates and Visitors to Two Con
ventions Will Mumber 150,000;
- Windy City Scurrying to Find '
1 Accommodations
SUFFS WILL STAGE
BIG DEMONSTRATION
Women Asking Ballots Will March , 25,
000 Strong Through Streets While
700 Reporters Will Warm Tele
graph Wires with Dope
By United Press.
Chicago, III., May 15. Hotel mana
gers today are attempting to solve
the problem of housing approximately
150,000 transients expected to attend
the Republican and Progressive Nat
ional conventions and the great suf
frage demonstrations to be held h.jre
June 7. This is the largest number
of strangers that has visited Chica
go since the World's Fair in 1913.
Already every available room in the
largo hotels have been reserved, and it
seems that accommodations in sec
ond class and smaller hostelries will
be at, a premium. In fact, managers
of the "big five" o'f Chicago's hotels
will not reserve another room, stating
they are holding them "for the usual
run of business."
Although they maintain that the
rates have not been increased, the of
ficial of three hostelries, the La Salle,
Congress and Sherman House, have
reserved the right to "double or triple
V be rooms if it becomes necessary."
The same rule will be employed prob-
ally at the Auditorium.
Four hundred rooms have been re
served at the Blackstone for mouths,
the rates ranging from S3 to $10. No
reservations have been allowed for
headquarters here.
Officials smilingly admit that 830
rooms of the Congress, are "gone" at
$4 a "head"; the La Salle has" been
asked for S00 rooms at J2.30 and $3.00
a person. Both have a few hundred
rooms left which they allege they will
hold for their "regular guests."
The Auditorium, officials say, has
been entirely sold out. ; There are four
hundred rooms In all, $5 and $10 being
asked. Colonel Roosevelt will make
his headquarters here, having closed
an option upon the three upper floors.
Other hostelries like the Morrison, Vic
toria, Kaiserhoff, Chicago Beach, Strat
ford and Palmer house have been de
luged with applications for lodgings.
Officials of the Illinois Equal Suf
frage league, who will conduct a mon
ster parade coincident with the con
vention, may have to pitch camp on
the lake, front to accomjnodate tho
5,000 delegates attending from all
over the country.
They have been refused permission
by the park board here to use the
municipal pier for lodgings. The wo. I
men will march from the loop to the
Coliseum, the scene of tlie republican
convention, equipped with signs and
banners demanding an insertion of a
plank in the G. O. P platform for equaf
suffrage.
The G. O. P. and the Moose, local
committees have been busy putting
the finishing touches on their prepar
ations for the convention. The re
publicans opened their headquarters
at the Coliseum this week.
The building will be decorated In
gala fashions The speakers' stand will
be in the south end of the building.
Arrangements have been completed to
accommodate 11,000 people.
The press will occupy the first 700
chairs encircling the speakers plat-1
form. The 983 delegates will follow
and beyond them will be seated as
many alternates. The rear end of the
main floor and the balconies will take
care ot he spectators.
James B. Freston, head of the press
gallery in the Senate, arrived here
Monday from Washington and laid
out the final plans for the Auditorium
theatre, the stamping ground of the
progressives.
This building will hold 4.000. The
speaker's chair w ill be placed on the
stage, w hich has been lengthened and
widened to be able to hold 230 seats
for the press In front of the speaker,
. . :
(Contlnued on Page Three.)
DEFENDERS '
General Joffre reviewing ihe reg'menis whiclv, have prevented the Germans from piercing toe Frei.ch lines aud
capturing Verdun. These regiments were singled out and taken to St. Pizier to rest from the terrific struggle in
which they had beert engaged. They were reviewed in the square at St. Dizier in front of tuo monument which
commemorates tho battle of St. Dizier, which was besieged by the Germans In 1514.
TEX.BLACK
IS BURNED
AT STAKE
Mob Storms Court House at Waco and
Seizes Young Negro, Carrying Him
to City Hall Square for
Execution
Dy United Press.
Waco, Tex., May 13.-
-A mob esti
mated at twenty thousand stormed the
court house here today, seized Jesse
Washington, a negro aged eighteen, j
irom bnerm i-ieming, rusnea mm as having registered up to noon to
three blocks througn the business sec- day, while every train which arrived
tion and burned him to death in the ( in Chickasha over the different rail
ci'.y hall square, for the murder of J roado brought additional delegates to
Mrs. . Elizabeth Fryar. the encampment.
Judge R. I. Munroe had jufit'passed Grand Secretary G. V. Bruce of
a death sentence upon Washington Guthrie, was among the first arriving;
after a trail following his plea of not j Grand Master Norville and other
guilty. Washington was a farm baud j grant) officers were expected to come
and worked for George Fryer, the i in through the day. J. B. R. Robinson,
woman's husband, tl was alleged that j grand sire of the order, was to arrive
the negro slew the woman with a hum
mer and then assaulted her.
Leaders of the mob rushed into tho
court room, overnowered tho sheriff
and marched the negro through the
streets in an orderly fashion. The
black was strung to a tree, oil was
poured upon a pile of boxes beneath
him and a match was applied. The
negro was then lowered into tlie
flames. i
The body burned twenty minutes
while the mob, which was from the
entire county chanted in unison, "Bern
him, burn him."
DIRECTORS
OF BUREAU
SELECTED
The official count of the election
of officers and the board of directors
of the Grady County Commercial and
Farm Bureau was completed this morn
ing. The returns show that Jonas Cook
was chosen to serve as president;
Myron Humphrey, vice president; F.
L. Slusher, treasurer, while the fol
lowing were chosen to serve as mem
bers of the board of directors; L. C.
Hutsou, Oriu Ashton, W. H. Donahue,
j W. II. Gilkey, Ed. F. Johns, Ben F.
Morgan, R. L. Wallace, J. W. Kayser.
j M. F. Courtney, C. H. Caneman, O.
. Coffman, George II. Evans.
Jonas Cook, the newly elected presi
dent, stated this morning that it was
more than possible Mr. Gilkey, the old
' president, would crill a meeting of the
officers and members at which time
tho new regime would take charge
formally. Mr. Cook also said that every
-member of the commercial and farm
j bureau was alive to the good to be
i derived from the active work of the
J institution and said that he believed
great interest would be one ot the
marks ot the organization for the com-
lr.g season.
OF -VERDUN PARADE BEFORE J0FFRE
GRAND ENCAMPMENT
OF ODD FELLOWS OPENS
Odd Fellows have the right of way
in Chickasha today. The Sixth Annu
al encampment of the jurisdiction of
Oklahoma convened at the Odd Fel
lows' hall, corner Fourth street and
Kansas avenue, at 9 o'clock this morn
ing. . A good attendance was present at
the morning session, with members of
the order present from Oklahoma City,
Ardmore, Anadarko, Enid, El Reno.
Guthrie, McAlester, Checotah, Perry,
Ponca . City, Stillwater, Lawton.
Hobart, Cherokee, Carmen, Muskogee,
! Tulsa, Sapulpa, Durant and other
' cities.
Between and 200 were reporte(J
sometime this afternoon.
The public session of the order will
be held this evening, assembling at 8
o'clock.
When the public session assembles
Mayor Coffman, who is himself an
Odd Fellow of high standing, witJ de
liver the welcoming address on behalf
of the city of Chickasha. An officer
of the grand encampment; will respond
in behalf of the visiting fraters.
ATTEMPTS IGOETTING
TO SUICIDE! WINS CUP
Robert Sothern, the negro who hnk ; The 1916 cross-country run goes to
been confined in the Grady county j Oiauncey Goetting, the swiftest sprint
jail upon burglary charges for the past ' er of tho Chickasha high school, ac-
several weeks, attempted suicide -at-uiday
afternoon, but was unsuccess
ful. Sothern has been in jail some time
awaiting trial on charges of camplici
ty in a numher of box car robherics
which have been pulled off from time
to time in the Rock Island railway
yards of Chickasha.
. Saturday Robert addressed a note'
to Jailer Dryden in which he said:j Goetting's name will be engraved on
"Well, Robert Sothern will show you j the Owsley cup a? the winner of the
that he is going to poison himself." j i916 Marathon. This cup will remain
Another prisoner had the wils j,, the posession of the high school
scared out of him when Sothern told ad ea(.h year the name of the swift
him of his plans and followed up the:est foot racer wili bo carved upon its
KLHitmieuL uy swaiiuwing a wigc inn
tion of pounded glass. The fellow pris
oner howled for help and 'shook the
the cell door until the bars rattled. ;
Jailer Dryden called Dr. Emanuel,.j
county health officer, w ho admiuist-;
ered warm water and mustard to the
woi'ld-be suicide. The dose had the
desired effect.
At C o'clock Saturday Sothern was
released, from custody, having succed-
ed in giving bonds in the sum of $730
for his appearance before the district j
court.
Miss Lillian Lorenston is spending
the week in El Reno, the guest of Mrs.
Forrest Nave.
Following this the Rebekahs will
hold an informal reception at which
punch and light refreshments will be
served.
The feature of the morning was the
big parade of the Cheveliers and Pa
triarchs department of the- grand en
campment.. The parade formed at the
hall, corner Fourth and Kansas. With
Grand Marshall Tom Driggers mount
ed on a prancing steed and accompa
nied by a detachment of mounted
police, led by Chief Phillips, the line
ot march was formed . aud .wended
its way westward along Kansas. av
enue. Following the grand marshal
and the mounted police, came the
band discouhsing military airs and fol
lowed by the cheveliers and the patri
archs militant "official" goat of the
order, bridled and saddleu and fol
lowed by members of the order who
had formed on former occasions a
close acquaintanceship with him,
found a place of honor in the parade.
Following the cheveliers and patri
archs came the Rebekahs in automo
biles while Chief Gattis and members
of the Chickasha fire department, with
full fire fighting equipment brought
up the rear of the parade.
Tha line of march was from Fourth
and Kansas, west on Kansas to Sixth
street, north on Sixth to Chickasha
avenue, east on Chickasha to First
and, doubling back, west on Chickasha
to Fourth street and south on Fourth
to Kansas, the point of starting, where
the line disbanded.
cording to the stop watches of Pete
Ileffner and Coach Reeds, official
judges and time-keepers of the niara-
j thon.
Starting at the high school, doubling
around O. C. Wv and finishing at
the high school, Goetiing made the run
of 2V4 miles in 14 minutes, 15 3-4 sec
onds, with Van Fisher as a eloRe sect
ond and Teddv Riddle makine a eood
third.
sides of satin-finished silver.
i i lie puui cup waij given tu uueiung
as a trophy to keep. Van Fisher, win -
ner 0f second place, received a silver
medal, vhile Riddle was awarded a
niedal of bronze. There were nine
entries in the 1916 Marathon.
WEATHER FORECAST.
For Oklahoma.
Tonight fair with frost proba-
bly. Tuesday fair.
V Local Temperature,
During 21 hours ending 8
a. ra. today: '
Maximum, .87; Minimum, .43.
5 MONTHS
PROGRAM
FOR NAVY
Atlantic Fleet Starts Today and for Almost
Half Year Will Cut Circles About
Self in Divisional
- Maneuvers
DESTROYER DIVISION
JOINS IN OPERATIONS
Tactical Exercises, Target Practice of
Flotilla and Strategical Drills bj Sea
Fighters Until Opening Days
of Maneuvers
x , ' -
By United Press.
Washington, May 13. The Atlantic
fleet of Uncle Sam'B navy atarted out
today to cut circles around Itself
show the American people what It reaU
ly can do in the way ot scrapping. The)
exhibition, in one form or another, will
continue until November 1.
The ' official procram provides foij
fleet and" divisional exercises oft thai
North Atlantic coast in the vicinity ofj
Newport, together with a war gamq
in conjunction with the armx fromj
July 21 to 29. - 1
Target practice will be held on thai
southern drill grounds from September;
1 to 30, after which the fleet will
be scattered to the home porta tot;
docking and minor repairs.
Beginning today the battleships o?
the fleet will operate singly for steam
ing trials -and similar Individual oper
ations, after which,' on May 20, the dl
visions of the fleet will assemble as loU
lows:
After divisional exercises lasting fof;
five days the divisions will return to
these Dases, except inai mo ii6i
and First division will go to Hampton)
Roads instead of Tompkinsville, ,
Beginning on June 3 divisional exer
cises will again be held, thfJ battle
ships again returning to these base
on June 10, on which date the flagship)
and the First division will return to
Tompkinsville. ' ' .
After five days spent hi uiyibito
exercises, from June 12 to June 17, tha
entire fleet will reassemble at New
port on June 17 for squadron exercise
off Newport from June 19 to July 1.
Tho week from July 1 to S will be
spent in the usual Fourth of July calls
at Atlantic coast ports for local cele
brations. On July 8 the battleships will again;
mobilize at Narragansett Bay and oni
July 10 will spend a live da? period;
in fleet exercises.
Returning to Narragansett Bay ori
July 13, the next four weeks will be
spent at anchor for machinery over
haul, Bhip drills and inspections, with;
the exception of five days from Jul
21 to 29, when the divisions wm oper
ate in a war game in an assigned
area. Torpedo exercisoa- will also ba
held, and the mining division and de
stroyers will engage in joint exercises
One division of destroyers will co
operate with the army in joint opera
tions in testing the defences ot East
ern New York.
"Tactical exercises of the fleet will
begin again about August 7 and wilt
continue until August 12, when the bat
tleships will return to Narragansett
Bay for machinery overhauling, ship1
drills, coaling and provisions and con
ferences at the Naval War college, pre-
naratory
to strategical manoeuvres
from August 20 to September 1. whet
the entire fleet will proceed io ins
southern drill grounds for target prac
tice until September 30, when the fleet
will disperse to the home ports.
The mining division of the fleet will
assemble in North River on May 13
and will cruise aud engage in exer
cises on May 2 off New Haven, on Juns
1 off Provincetown and om June 3
j off Plymouth.
After a brief call at Boston this min
ing division will continue Its exercises
off Salem, Cape Ann, Glouchcster and
Rockport until July 1. The Vestal and
Solace will base on Newport and will
move according to the needs ot tha
fleet.
The vessels of the active destroyer
flotilla upon the completion ot repairs
will make a reconnoissance ot the New
England coast, after which they, will
assemble at Gardiner's Bay and pre
pare to participate "In the fleet opera-
(Continued, on Page Three.),
