-.. i-'. &-
The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
is received oVer
our own leased wire.
vr
VOL. 122. NO. 116.
Hill said he made bis flying trip to
get certain information, the nature of
which was not disclosed.
Mall Blockade.
Sam Hill Was in Europe for Seven Days ana
Found Out That Germany is
Beaten.
STRICT ill BLOCK
Americans in Berlin are Complaining Over the
Way Great Britain Seizes Mail
Bags.
N
NEW YORK, May 16.—Germany is cans In Berlin and other parts of Ger
beaten and the end of the war is near
It hand, according to Samuel Hill, as
sociated with his father James J. Hill
|in railway enterprises, who arrived
[late last night from Liverpool on the
liner Philadelphia. Hill made a ree
[ord trip abroad. He was only seven
E days ashore, but in that time he trav- pondents is apparently growing more
eled from Liverpool to London across
(the channel to Havre to the head
quarters of King Albert of Belgium
j«nd back again. He had a long talk
S with King' Albert and got a glimpse
[of the front, near Dunkirk.
"Germany cannot struggle against
[the overwhelming financial strain and
the economic conditions since the
war," he said, explaining why he be
lieved peace would soon come.
"There will not be another winter
campatmrand peacejwlfl etomestmt «s
suddenly as the war broke out. The
ffVench people have put tflieir living
on a practical basis—-they eat only
sufficient food to sustain them' In
health. King Albert, whom I have
known for a Bcore of years, is tn splen
did health and confident of early res
toration to his people of the section
of Belgium held by the Germans."
GENERAL HOUSE CLEANING
IN MEXICO IS NECESSARY
it Texas People Think of
Situation is Reported by
Chief of Staff Scott.
tBy Carl D. Groat. United Press StafT
Correspondent.
WASHINGTON, May
15.—Informa
tion, helpful to the administration.
Priding its future course toward
Mexico, was presented today to Sec­
many who number in all over 700.
During the past few days, letters
posted in America between January
6 and 13 arrived, all examined by the
censor and three months enroute.
The English control of the news
cablegrams from American corres-
strict. For instance, in March the
Berlin bureau of the United Press
filed a cable to New York containing
an interview with the editor of the
Berlin Lokal Anzeiger on the Jap
anese situation. This interview did
not reach New York, apparently hav
ing been held up by the British cen
sor.
The latest order of the British gov
ernment declaring paper money and
checks absolutely contraband 4s also
working hardships on Ameiicafis.
Formerly these people received their
allowances and income by drafts from
New York. Now these drafts are con
fiscated. Most Americans received a
good part of their incomes from the
United States, but under new arrange
ments this may be Impossible. it
will not be feasible to wirless money,
because the baaks cannot send the re
ceipts or checks by mail.
This condition of affairs has
aroused {he Americans who are in
[By Carl W. Ackerman, United Press note appeared in the weekly report of
Staff Correspondent.]
BERLIN, April 15. (By mail)—Eng
land today is maintaining an abso
lute mail blockade of Germany. Few
er letters and newspapers are reach
ing Berlin today than at any time
since the•- beginning of the war. Eng
land's control of the cable censorship
Is becoming more severe sq that Ger
many is gradually being cut off from
communication with the United States
and all other countries.
the American Chamber of Commerce
and Trade:
"Since last Christmas, Americans
in Germany have been put to no end
of trouble by the seizure and deten
tion of the malls, to and from Europe
by the British authorities. ^As a case
in point, the writer received only the
other day, a letter from the United
States dated January 8, 1916, which
had been censtitfed in England and
evidently had be®n lying there three
For several months Americans in1 months. According to the literal
Berlin have been receiving their mailj reading of Article 1. of the peace con
lnarked "opened by the censor No.—." ference of 1007 at The Hague, "the
The letters have been taken from1 postal correspondence of neutrals or
neutral steamers and held in England, belligerents whatever its official or pri- the British consular service, went to I from the allies.
for examination. Some Americana
had been receiving mail through Hol
land and Norway, but lately the Eng
lish have been taking this maH from
the steamers. This is producing a
critical situation among the Amerl-
vate character may be, found on the
high seas on board a neutral or en
emy ship is iityiolable. If the ship is
detained the correspondence is for-
(Continued on page 2.)
tor American troops withdrawal.
Much of the need for this was elim
inated in the Scott-Obregon confer
ence
marTof^aj^Balter by Chief of Staff tic frame of niihd. said Secretary
bj-to' conference with
Scott.
He informed him, that while Get'
•ml Obregon at El Paso had refused
40
Put down Mexican co-operation
terms in black and white, he offered
•wistancp that will be helpful, pro
dded there are no outbreaks among
detached Carranzista garrisons.
His report tended to
optimism qf the past few days,
^ough he Included in it the opinions
®f many El Pasoans that a general
Bouse cleaning by the United States
*M»In Mexico will be necessary ultl
amtrty.
totalis of General Pershing's redis
®®sitlon of troops south of Columbus,
J"°wed that the American expedition
posl'ior to make a rapid clean
2®f Potential border raiders It was
**umed that Mexican Ambassador
*Tedondo would elect to see Secre
of State Lansing soon on pend
diplomatic questions. though
J*'tlier side has shown haste recently
itociMs the Comma su«*e«tioas
Ills chief of stafT. "He seems to think
..... ....uti-.i.. Has been cre
ated."
Because of his tiring journey, Scott
returned to his home after the Baker
session and postponed meeting Secre
tary Lansing until later. The war
nlirm the department was without confirmation
regarding reported raids or attempted
raids.
Villareal Defends Himself.
WASHINGTON, May 16.—Antonio
I. Villareal today denied in a letter t(
the United Press, charges of Mexican
Ambassador Aredondo that he insti
gated the recent raids in the Big
^OonUnned jMft
ico. Roger and newspapermen, filled fhe f°?.?
Stories that the American lines are diminutive court room and jammed.
doubted by army men. The 1,500 Car- could scarcely move. The seat as
ranzistas below the Big Bend are
there by express agreement to assist
in -rounding up the Boquillas and
Glenn Springs raiders.
Before the end of the week the re-
cently added forces should be dis
posed of at various border stations.
General Scott is in a very opcimis-
uuum
80id]0r
BERLIN, May 15.—"British troops PETROGRAD, Mj
made unsuccessful attempts to recon- swift offensive
quer positions taken by the German* treme south, the 5
near Hulluch," said this afternoon's
statement from the war office. "These
attacks either broke down in artillery
fire or were repulsed in hand to hand
fighting."
nr ™i( tZ
French attacks in the Meuse dis
trict, on the west slope north of Dead
Man's hill and near Caillette forest,
were easily repulsed.
"Artillery and patrols have been
active on many sections of the west- of Mosul. Unless speedily checked
•rn front." by the Turks, within a fortnight they
will be threatening to cut off the
ZEPPELIN IN DISTRESS.
COPENHAGEN, May 15.—A Zeppe
lin airship, badly damaged, passed off
the Island of Fedje early Friday,
settling, slowly toward the Water and
disappearing in a bank of fog, accord
ing to the skipper of a Danish fish
ing vessel. A flotilla of destroyers
were pursuing the Zeppelin which evi
dently had been damaged by a shell.
Explosion Killed Ten.
Chance for West Point.
MANHATTAN, Kansas, May 15.—
Five Kansas Agricultural college men
will have the opportunity to enter
West Point as cadets, according to a.
telegram received by President Wat
ers from the adjutant general of the
war department.
The men will be selected by exami
nation.
Honor graduates are preferred.
Every male student here takes two
tr.rnW ,.,,3
TT
CHICAGO, May 15.—Chicago todav
planed to out-do New York's pre
paredness parade, in which nearly
150,000 marchers participated Satur
day. William M. Lewis, secretary of
the Illinois Navy league, issued a ca'l
to patriotic organizations for a simi
lar parade here, to be held probably
during the republican and
June 10,
business here and today the following, progressive national conventions.
placed on
iU. Tlnpt*
Legal dignitaries, old friends of Sir day in his tour of Ireland to study
calm wnen Attorney
In his opening statement. Attorney
General Smith declared the crown
would prove that Sir .Roger plotted
not only the Irish rebellion, but
planned to land expeditions In Ire
land and at several other places on
the British coast. Several exchanged
English prisoners will testify to Ihia
Bend district and that he Is concerned! ferred to the fact hat he had beien arrival.
to border plots to force intervention, knighted because of h's serrice in be- After concluding
Villareal called the accusations
slanderous and absurd. He counter
charged the Carranza government
with seeking "to suppress him at any
attii Conrtttatfon-jBemocrat.
KEOKUK, IOWA, MONDAY, MAY 15, 1916
a
ed the Persian fn O
Lake Urumiah a' 2
eighty miles of tK
municatlon of the
of Bagdad.
The Slavs ha
of Rowanduz, st
Turkish frontle:
westward toward i...
Nineveh and the
n"
!ea
threatened by Carranzistas were so closely about the prisoner that he °i8V^lt ^op^alfor either the dis Prisoner. Cronin said they were
signed the United Press, for instance., armament of all parties in Ireland, o.
Casement was accompanied to the
prisoners dock by Daniel ^Bailey. a| ,.Tho .. gaId
arrested at Ireland Sunday, al
so on the charge of high treason.
Sir Roger was
W1 A
General Sir F. B. Smith began read- Jfes ^likewise, but the later raised
Ing th® formal charge against
and reveiwing his life history.
jjia
eyes roved about Che room. resUng at at the time Sir Roger
71:.L ™, •,. nr«Mine maris-, Casement landed, carried twenty
Intervals upon the presiding magis-1
trate, and then turning upon the
spectators.
the prisoner became fidgety and. guarded, and was in the court room
twisted in his chair. When ^.mith re-jij^Qj^ many persons knew of his
half of the British government, Sir
Roger hung his head.
The atorney general outlined in a
brief way. Casement's arrival on the
irlsh coast with a German subma
.» -'L
-V
a developing
in the ex
nave cross
uthwest of
o* now within
line of oam
army south
id the region
les inside the
are marching
jins of ancient
Mesopotamfan city
Turkish forces holding back the Brit
ish at Kut-EI-Amara.
No development of the grand duke's
successful offensive in the Caucasus
has brought such surprise as the
news of the appearance of another
Russian army near the Turks line of
communication. For several weeks
the official communiques have been
almost entirely silent on the progress
of the Russian force operating in the
lake Urumiah district of Persia.
When the curtain of secrecy was
lifted, the Russian army was dis-
WILMINGTON, Del., May 1«."
Ten men were killed in an explosion closed well across the Turkish fron-
at Che Repauno chemical plant at tier and moving westward, apparently
Gibbstown, N. J., today, and Dour without serious resistance.
others, badly Injured, were taken to That the grand duke has outwitted
a hospital at Camden. The explos-,the Turks and their German tutors, Is
ion rocked the surrounding country the belief here. Following the vlc
for many miles, shaking suburbs o{:tories at Erzerum and Trebizond, the
Philadelphia. DuPont officials hur- Russians pushed on in the direction
ried to Glbbstown from Wilmington!
and telephoned a statement regard
ing the casualties.
or Erzingan and Diarbekr, as if to
cut off the Turkish Bagdad armies by
a drive through the latter city.
The Turks moved reinforcements
eastward from Constantinople and
strengthened their lines on the Erzin
gan-Bitlis front to meet the expected
attack. Meanwhile the Russian left
wing entered Mesopotamia at a point
300 miles southeast of the region in
which the main Turkish force was
concentrated.
Railway Mens' Convention.
DETROIT, Mich., May 15.—To con
sider ways and means of furthering
„,r the fight for an eight
ye&rs of military training utyier Uni jratjj-oads in the country, Brother
ed States army officers.
Preparedness Parade.
hpWthe
day on all
hood of Railway Trainmen opened its
first triennial convention today in this
city. A thousand delegates were in
attendance.
Flight is Postponed.
LOS ANGELES. Calif.. May 15.—
The cross continent flight of Oscar
Brindley and A. J. Macy, scheduled to
begin today in an aeroplane fitted
with Macy's stabilizer, was postponed
indefinitely because the machine was
not readj'.
Sir Roger Casement Goes to Trial
on the Charge of High Treason
[By Wilbur S. Forrest, united Press I capture. Then he reverted to the
Staff Correspondent.] prisoner's activities in Germany,
LONDON, May 15.—Clad in a seedy mentioning particularly his visit to
dark suit with frayed sleeves. Sir prison camps where he endeavored to
Roger Casement, once a favorite In'wean imprisoned Irish soldiers away
trial today in the Bow street police Casement smiled at this refsrenca
punishable by hanging.
Sir Roger entered the court room
smiling and nodding to Some of the
men who knew him before he was
knighted. His face was covered with
a stubby, greenish-gray beard that
gave his best smiles a ghastly look.
He wore a pair of shoes requisitioned
from the stock of the British army.
Bow street was packed. It was the °ucej
first high treason trial held in the old °uc®d
court room since Arthur Lynch was I Daniel Bailey who occupies the pris
trlal as an aftermath of oners dock with Casement,
W4oM^Tr
Among these *as Soldier eaJh
Premier Asquith reached Belfast to-
*?'lp
to
v^it
font nf Sir Roeer. 'for the incorporation of both the Irisi.,' tya,
was within three feet of Sir Roger.
into an auxii-
and
oaiTn whpn^ttornevtrelinquish their arms if the
The German auxiliary sunk off the
A
Two women who arrived at 1 camp was offered by Daniel O'Brien,
m., were the first in line at Brvw ian exchanged prisoner, this after
street, but by 6 o'clock a large crowd noon.- O'Brien said there were 25,
had
the
assembled. The police s-upplied I
wlth
effect, he said. gfe. Roger was btwight to court O'Connell, another exchanged Irish
As the attorney general proceeded. fn(m
the
4P.d auxiliary, his landing and[ _yhs letty. coiroboaUed,reports of jOsnt&raed
."''v
PARIS, May 15.-—French troops
drove the enemy from a first line
trench near Vermandeviliiers, south
of the Somme, said an official state
ment issued here today. Around Ver
dun, heavy bombardment in the reg
ion of Avocourt wood constituted
practically the only activity.
In the Champagne region, the
French cleaned out a German work
west of Mont Tetu, taking some pris
oners.
Americans Released.
WASHINGTON, May 15—The three
Americans held imprisoned at Acalup
co^in connection with the Burning of
the American schooner Mariscal sev
eral weeks ago off Acapulco have
been released, according to a navy
department message today. Two of
the Americans were Frank Horn ami
George LaVoilette, both of Oakland,
Calif. Senator Phelan of C&liforaia
took up their cases with the state de
partment after learning that the
Mexicans claimed the two men had
part In firing the ship. Demands for
their release were immediately made
and were granted promptly, be
cause the charge was apparently a
pretext.
In connection with this case it de
veloped today that the state depart
ment had requested the navy depart
ment to send a navy vessel to Acapul
co to look after American Interests.
Start Big Whale Hunt.
SEATTLE, Wash., May 15.—Joh.i
Borden, Norris H. Bokum. Charles K.
Knickerbocker and Rochester B.
{?l?ughter, boy millionaires, of Chi
cago, left today on a whaling and big
game hunting trip in the Bering sea
and Asiatic Siberia.
"The Big Bear," a newly built
schooner, completely equipped with
hunting and whaling paraphernalia
will carry the party on its perilous
expedition.
Skirts Too Short.
PATBRSON, N. J., May 15.—-l.lfe is
just ode darned disappointment after
another here. Orders today required
Paterson's telephone operators to
disobey fashion dictates and wear
skirts long enough to conceal ankles,
which the company decided were too
conscipuous.
Prayers for Sick Wife.
CHICAGO. May 15.—Demetro Mun
ock went to church yesterday to pray
for his "sick wife." He came home
to find that she had eloped with an
other man.
Casement's attempts to seduce Irish
soldiers imprisoned in Germany.
The letter showed that the German
submarine in which Casement, Bailey
and others made the trip to Tralee,
Irelauu, was the U-19.
court on the charge of high treason, and wrote on a pad on which he hadj TestifiedTha^when Cas^en^wa-s !Indianapolis have been matched for a
been taking notes:
"They did so at their own request."
Smith said that the vast majority
of the Irish prisoners in Germany
treated Casement's overtures with
contempt.
"As a result," added the attorney
general, "they were punished and the
rations alloted them each day was re­
The first witness for the crown
first arrested, he made no attempt I
to save himself, but insisted thatj-7"^ ^icor*inS to
Bailey was innocent. ment here today.
John Robinson, an Irishman, for-1
merly a corporal in the British army,
was the next witness. Robinson was
r®cent r.®' ieax Hnony
^Be'fasf ^as^ con^ecfed
000
Tower In a taxicab, closely prisoner, gave similar testimony
outline of the case against the pris- LONDON. May 15.—Part of the
oner, Attorney General Smith read! carefully laid plans by which Sir
a statement toy the second prisoner, Roger Casement and his confederates
Daniel Bailey, arrested in Ireland plotted to set up an independent re
AprH 21.
a prisoner in one of the German mill- ^W
tary camps visited by Casement. He
testified that Oasement. visited 300
Irishmen in his camp, offering $50 to
Qne wolrid'de:,ert
was
'of
John
Cron1n.
"i
IS NOW ON TRIAL
the Brit­
ish colors. Robinson said he refused.
About fifty of the 300 Irishmen ac- "Wheels of Justice Turn SloW
cepted the offer and enlisted in the
Germany army, Robinson said. His
testimony was corroborated by that
another exchanged
promised that if Germany emerged
from the
war defeated, the German
government would pay their trans-
P0^1100 to America.
the Daiiy
"The nationalists.'
I News, "are understood to be ready to Casement traced rose^
Ulster-!ment
When not engaged in making notes,
14
on his pad
both Case-
noticeable
and Baileys shoes were
without strings. The shoe strings
were removed toy guards in the
Tower of London, who feared the
Irishmen would attempt suicide,
rounds of Testimony that an American priest.
thousand rifles, a million
ammunition, ten machine
many borabs destined for the Irish I attempting to secure recruits Xor the
rebels, Attorney General Smith de-! German army from among Irish
clared. I prisoners at the Limburg prinon
guns and Father Nicholson, aided Sir Roger in Charles H. Donnelly, of Woodstock,
jjj
women who arrived before dawn, that few of them yielded to Father Attorney Ralph Dady, the array of ih--.
I Nicholson's persuasion. Miohael1
Helped by Germans.
[By Wilbur S. Forrest, United Press
his preliminary Staff Correspondent.]
t,jle
wqg*'™?
Twenty Thousand People Took Part in Hang
ing and Burning of Convicted
Murderer.
STORMED THE COUNTY COURT HOUSE
Judge Had Finished Pronouncing Sentence to
Hang, When Mob Crowded Into
the Room.
performed tlie office at Baltimore
four years ago. On the same day
that Westcott received the letter, the
New jersey delegation met and de
cided that Governor Fielder, one of
the delegates at large, was the man
to nominate Wilson.
Judge Westcott accepted the honor
and on the same day Governor
•Fielder wrote the president, inform
ing him of the action of the delega
tion and asking for suggestions con
cerning the nominating speech.
The president wrote to the gover
nor. explaining the dilemma which
had arisen. Governor
Matched for Bout.
TULSA, Okla.. May 15.—'Jim Flynn.
of Pueblo. Colo., and Jack Dillon, of
WACO, Texas, May 15.—Stormln# the straets three blocks to City Hall
the county court house, a mob esti-. square. There was little shouting
mated at 20,000 today seized Jesse and strictest ordev prevailed until
Washington, an eighteen year old! the negro reached the tree to which
negro, and burned him to death in he was hung. Then a leader stepped
City Hall square for the murder of forward and ran a rope about his
Mrs. Elizabeth Fryar, 56, the wife of neck. At a signal, Washington shot
into the air high above the heads of
the crowd- and thousands of voices
broke into the cry of "burn him! Burn
him!"
a farmer.
Washington had been sentenced to
hang.
As soon as Judge Munroe pro
nounced sentence and turned to re
cord the case in his docket, the mob
leaders surrounded Sheriff S. S.
Fleming and forced him into a
ner. The sheriff resisted, but
I
Westoott Will Nominate.
WASHINGTON, May 15.—Judge
John W. Wescott, of Camden, N. J.,
will nominate President Wilson at
the St. Louis convention.
r.UCUJU allu Jvllv XJl
round
houtat Dewey, Okla., for
an
announce-
nrkTmrTt nrvll to
A VAVV
ly at Start of the Sensation
al Murder Case.
preHjd{„g
*f
WHEN ORPET TRIAL BEGINS
While visitors, reporters and pho-! closest believed that Orpet would re
tographers hurried to Waukegan for veal the mystery that surrounded his
the beginning of the trial.
Judge
judge, delayed his
arrival, and it seemed likely the
actual start of the trial will be post
poned until early in the afternoon.
Pacing nervously in his cell at the
prisoners at l!mburg butUj, was piqued at the delay. State's his belief in capital punishment and
Autos, buggies, and bicycles sped
into Waukegan from 'Ijake Forest
where Marion I^ambert and the
youth charged with her murder,
lived. The Lake Forest high school
Toll call found several students.
-w" •-. -"ir
THE WEATHER
Fair. Warmer Tuesday. Local
temp—7 p. m. 70 7 a. m. 53.
TEN PAGES
As if rehearsed on his part, a sec
ond mob leader stepped forward anrt
emptied an oil can on a heap of
cor- crates and cord wood below the tres.
was IA match was applied and the pile
f.rmly pressed back and his prisoner leaped into flames. Some one cut the
taken from him. Washington, a pltt-1 rope and Washington, shrieking and
able object, trembled and begged for begging for mercy, dropped into the
mercy, but was led to the ^court house' flames. The yells of the crowd
steps where thousands surrounded drowned his cries and he burned for
him. Then the mob-flowed through
twenty anluutes.. •*-'L 1-
Started by Fire Bugs.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, May 15.—
The two fires which started ai wide
ly separated points on Fort Blis3
military reservation at El Paso Sat-
Recently the president wrote Judge urday night and did considerable
Wescott, asking him to make the damage, were probably of incendiary
nominating speech. Westcott had origin, General Funs-ton announced
today after receiving the official re
ports. Fun.st-cm appeared disturbed.
The fires broke out more than an
hour apart and destroyed three
stables and a storehouse. Tents and
several machine guns were lost in
the storehouse fire and in the other,
four horses wore burned, General
Bell reported. Civilians aided the
soldiers in fighting the fires.
Police are in Control.
SANTO DOMINGO, May 15.—The
rebel forces having retired from the
capital under threat of American in-
Fielder asked tervention, the Dominion congress
the Jersey delegation to rescind was preparing today to elect a suc
their action and this, it is understood! cessor to President Jiminez, who re
win be done.
signed while a revolt was in progress.
The police were in control today
and the city was quiet. The rebels
under General Erias evacuated early
Sunday under warning by American'
Minister IJussell. that marines would
be landed from American warships at
daylight, if the city was not cleared
up.
nr»rvTirr\rr\
P()URT ROOM IS CROWDED
selection of a jury would be a tedious
procedure. The defense feared that
a predouiinence of men from the
neighborhood of the I^anvbert resi
dence, at the Kuppenheimer estate,
would be prejudicial to the interests
of their client.
WAUKHJGrAN, 111.. May 15.—The mitted, was strongly against tiie
wheels of LaJe county justice turn- youth.
ed slowlv today to separate the grist! Hanna planed a brief conference
from the chaff in the mystery of with Orpot at his offlcs in Waukegan
Helms woods, where pretty Marion before going to the court room.
Lanrtvert. high school girl, met her Whether the youth himself will take
death and for whose murder WIHiam I the stand, was a closoly veiled secret.
H. Orpet, Wisconsin university junior, hut Waukegan expected it.
went to trial. Those who have followed the case
The sentiment there, Hanna ad-
tryst of death with Marinn in Helms
woods, that preceded the discovery of
her body there on February 10.
Though State's Attorney Dady de
clined today to admit he would ask
for the death penalty for Orpet. he
announced that each prospective
Lake county jail, Orpet, a youth of juror would be questioned regarding
hoik.'
would be accepted by hiia
1
counsel chosen for the defense and who did not.
the special panel of 136 Jurors were As counsel prepared for the start of
on*their toes with expectation. the trial, rumors were current in
Waukegan that an important letter
had been discovered, strengthening
the defense's contention that Marian
committed suicide.
This letter, it was said, was an
swered by Orpet with one line, hastily
friend* of Marian, missing this morn- penned as he prepared to leave Madi
tag. son. Wis., to meet Marian in Helms
I^eatHe P. Hanna, one of Orpet's
oounael^ intimated today that the (Continued on, page X-).
I- I
.'i'
I,.,.
V.}
:r
ii
I
