-"'llMfr-r
TODAY'S PRICES
Mexican b&nH notes )8tU IiIHhi II ft 1 ,
Mexican ptOo . Nrli.nitts i,,in
Sl&Rt Crrn tumnij U.r mI
aT fH-ndy Harmon quotation,) '
Copper B 50fr -! 5 oralnw irregular
Llvcatock ted Block higher
HOME EDITION
WEATHER FORECAST.
EI Pao. fair: wct Texa. fair, cooler.
frot In I'anhandlei Xew Mexico, fair,
nnrmrr: Arlzonn. fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS,
SINGLE COPT FIVE CESTS
EL PASOTEXAS, MONDAY EVENING. MAY' 15,1916.
DELIVBUED ANVVvHEItr; 60 CENTS A MONTH.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
PERSHIN
REBEL PEER FEAR NEW BROWNSVILLE
B K BB n g b fl 1 B fl " ' -------- ncc at 40 w I -"SB-' V lllia-H-5-S--
il-.t-l-bl ss
Hears Self Flayed For Prov
ing False to King Who
Made Him a Knight.
IRISH PRIVATE
IS ALSO TRIED
Casement at First Cant Look
at Flag Tacn From Ger
many to England.
T !: ?- " - l-ger
I -------. me supposed prim In.
lit. l t0,r f the S,nn Prtn -
publicly branded a traitor to his king
njl country. He was arraigned In
police court and charged with high
treason.
A f-w spectators who were permit
ted to enter the famous nld Bow
Wrot police court were considerably
nrprlsed when a second prisoner was
n.aced beside Casement In the dock.
This man was Daniel H.rian Bailey.
2.1, ' village near London.
H iiley was arretted near Tralee. Ir -1
.r,d April .1. H? WIIi Jotatf CB.rgeU
with fasement with hUrh treandn. but
is e-act connection Ut the Sinn
u.ifc T,ir "
In the formal charge. Casement is
described as of "no occupation and of
jo abode The charge against both.
deiendants read. "For that they did.
"tt-cen the first day of No mber,
ISJ4, and on divers other occasions be
tween that dav and fh "let .,,.,,
April, 1916 unlawfully, malicious" y and
tra torously commit high treason with
in and without the realm of England
in (Oi. tempt of our sovereign lord, th
king, and his laws, to th evil e
in;ile of others in like case and con
t'aiy to the duly and allegiance of
tl " paid defendants."
This Trlnl 1 Mere Preliminary.
Casement is reported to have made
a lo.ig niatement to the authorities
and IT Is believed that thin t-t.iAt
will considerably shorten the hearing
befoie th( magistrate The nllc
curt hearing is merely a preliminary '
to tlip real trial which will tak nla.i
rea,
)sir ItetoYe a pe iei of the iudir. nf
the high court of Justice.
Mr jonn Dickinson presided Short-
It nter th m.ii.ir.i. w.j .!... ... I
u. C.isi-ment and his fellow Drisoner
i re shown Into the docket. Case- I
1 i.t appf-aiance was vastly differ- i
... ..... UH.n.wv,uL mu Ulncil IIIBi
ni from that of th. man who gained
fame In 1912 bj bis exposure of the
rrueiyes practiced on natives in putu
ni.ijo by a British rubber companj.
He sat In the dock, resting his chin
on inn hands and occasionally looking
lonjrd the magistrate.
Mention of RnlKUtliood hhnmet, Hlni.
A hen tli attorney t uiral. in open
lnp h case for tne prosecution men
tioned the lunferring of tne order of
i hi knighthood, the prisoner dropped
hK head The attornt general then
oi. tHiud tiic prisoner's career.
li the opening of the case for th
ciow it, th attorne general charged
thit Cas-ment had tonducted a syste-
H8U campaign among tlie Irish pris- j
' i.io iii on inniij nun 111c iiuriioae ui
.ducltiK them from their allegiance
1j lei. ue said, had been seduced in
tl - manner and h.id made a state
ni ' (plainlng Casi im-nt'g actions In
d.' nl
Ilailryt Itrcurd.
f curding to the attorney general.
w.ir born in Inihliu und joined
t Krjj il Irish Rifl-s in 1901. He 1
- i d with his regiment in India and
is honorably discharged. On the out- !
' ill oi the European war, Bailey was ,
c II, d oi. i an a reer 1st and sailed with i
t cnir'nM expedlticiiarj force to I
i mi tic was lateen prisoner In
feci cmLr. 9H.
I he ctiurnry general said Bailey
h . i r-,.ited how a large number or
T . i prisoners had been collected from
ii .ms pi isons In Germany and placed
in a larf,-( cniop at Llmburg. There
h ird addresses by Casement, who
Ti i o inflame their minds against
il British government nnd persuade
1 1 in to support him Li bis projected
expedition to Ireland
Tbe Plan For Itebelllon,
The ittornej gent-ral said Casement t
d'eiitid himself as the organizer of
t1 Irish volunteers and impressed u
'n tin prisoners In Germany that
.-rvtl.lriK was to be gained bj Ire
I i I j Germany winning the war
l)i ptlsoners who joined a brigade
he .is attempting to form, were prom
i J b. rasemeht, the atturney gen
fn! ks, rtd, that thj would be sent
t Tifr,.n as guests ot the German gov
ern nfiit In the eiint that Germany
ni .l tea battle lie would land the
pi t-.i ! in Ireland to defend that
0 Mr; agulnst England, and if Ger
t i v lost the wai the e.erinan gov -n
'lit would give each man In to JO
p u i("i Stirling an.t Ire. pussage to
Ai ii
J iv if, i, plan tunreivrd In Vtlj,
rj i ii, ittori.ey g ni i al ' ! the man
I'll, was bei'trlnc: Mr Edward
i r l - aiiii-ei his dep ippi e clatio'i
I - i 'lit; of the bono of knighthood
V ii oi just been r onff-rred on liiin "
Wii t i speaker added that Case-
r i - ri r was treated with
con- i
pt
v.-im majority of the Irish
(Contlnuil on pare S, Col. I.)
Eleohant Butte Dam
i
The War At a Glance
S'
HAHP fighting is now in
progress in other sectors of
the western front than In the
Verdun region. Notable activity
has been reported recently along
the Iiritish lines- In northern
France and Flanders .and today
Paris records brisk action by the
artillery on both sides in the
champagne. At Verdun, the play
of the heav guns Is being kept
up.
The preliminary- examination of
Sir Roger Casement, -who was ai
rested In Ireland, aftei landing
from a German submarine just
previous to the Inception of the
rebellion was begun today in
London.
Herbert V Isquith, the British
premiei. Is ronltn-iitK his confer
ences in Ireland mer the situation
growing out of the rebellion.
TOO II IE
com iei
- , , . ,,
J Oil I. ItOCrweieiier, dr.,
. '
Calls Upon Ministers to
Arouse Inactive Men.
Cleveland. O, May 13 John D.
Rockefeller, jr. addressed today's ses
sion of the internatlc nal convention of J
the Touna- Men s Chr stian associations
of North America, urf Ing a campaign to
be called "The Every-Christian-Man-at-Work
Movement."
Multitudes of men whose names ap
pear on the ehurtdt roles as Christians
are merely marking time, said Mr
Rockefeller, like soldiers parading- the
streets in dress uniform instead of ren
dering active wvioe Uks the men in
sotltd and di-heirsl- khaki. Christian
manhood, like mn-mtUr or mental pow- '
r. is only to be xaaintalned by its use, ' i
be said. "I call upon the ministers of
this land to rouse to action that vast j
horde of Christian wen enroled In the !
churches but seldom seen In the pews,
who are Only Waiting for some service
which requires manly qualities in order
to be aeafh brought into active relation
with the churches. The day for the
preaching of a gospel looking toward
the preparation of the individual for a
passage to the skies on flowery beds of
"ase has passed, and maj It never re
turn Mobilize Inactive Christian Vrniy.
"The inactive army of Christian men
will be drawn Into service the more
quickly when they hae come to recog
nize the brotherhood or man as
God. An interesting and unique argu-
ment recently advanced for compul-
forv "Hilary serWce in this courtry is
th.at the sona of the we.l to do families
nt mi, mmmiitiitl.. mlhl th.r.hv i '
thrown Into close contact with the sons '
oi tne working people, so that the
great gap which too often exists might !
great gap which
t. , u , a .. ,. .. j.,,..
"' " , "" a "" aii-
a,800lat lon ,n common tasks these two
r,"" of "ien Dougn, to see lhftt tn
a a result of dally .
difference between them is superficial
rather than Inherent.
When Han Knowa Mnn.
' As we face the great mdubtrlal nrob
Inns which are arising daily, it seems
manent and satisfactory solution lies in
the widespread acceptance of the doc
trine of the brotherhood of man V hen
men of widely separated stations arc
thrown together, come to know each
other, when they are working side by
side for the advancement of a common
nterest, then and then only does per
sonal distrust, hatred and misunder
standing give wa to a spirit of fair
play, justice and a desire for the com
mon good
In launching the proposed campaign
to put every Christian man at work, Mr
Rockefeller proposed the appointment of
a special secretary of the international
committee of the Y M C A. to hae
charge of the. undertaking, and he out
lined some of the general requirements
of the organization "it is hard." he
eK,a- lo conceive or any single effort
which would eo further toward revltal-
,zlnK ,ne churches of North America
and reviving the interest of man in
tnera "
-,,,. ,,.,,,,
WESCOTT IS TO NOMINATE
WILSON AT CONVENTION i
Washington. L. C. May 15 Presi
dent Wilson has asked John W. Wes
cott, attorney general of New Jerse.
who made the speech nominating hire
at the Baltimore convention, to make
the nominating speech at St IO ills.
escott has accepted He conferred
todt with the president When the
president asked Mr. Wescott, he did
nol know that the New Jersey dele-
Kates on the same day had selected
Gov Fielder, in view of the preii-
dent's wish to have Mr. Wescott, It is
expected the governor will withdraw.
Close advisers have begun mapping
(nt the platform to be presented tn
the- convention Peace and prosperity
are understood to have been settb'd
upon as being the principal issues.
DANIELS DECLARES NATION
, MUST BE READY TO FIGHT
I New York. May 15. Josephus Dan
iels, secretary of the navy. In an ad
I dress here Sunday night on prepared-
ness, declared that as long as any ni
I tlon exalts power, the United States
1 must be read) to fight to preserve that
for which our forefathers fought.
"That great and wonderful hum-n
' petition that marched on the streets of
i this citj Saturdav " he asserted, refer,
ring to New- Yoik' monster prepared
ness parade, "upoke louder than it
twice that number had signed a paper.
i zz' "": ."'; .".:." -'.
n acesiea mat the American people
., ,h.v .,,, 7ll . Zfrnnin . 1
it."
..- ---. ..w. ,unt. .w , x-
Ill ROT
TEST CflSE FILED
Suit Against Land Commis
sioner to Determine School
Land Mineral Right.
Austin. Texas, May 15. Mandamus
proceedings have been instituted in the
state supreme com t by W. D. Greene, of
Wilbarger count), against state land
commissioner Roblson. to compel Rob
ison to issue a permit to the relator to
prospect for minerals that may be
found on a section of land in Wilbar
ger county, on the theory that the state
has reserved the mineral rights to
school lands that may be sold.
Is a Test Case.
This is to be a test case to determine
the question as to whether or not state
lands, sold under the land law of 1883.
carry the mineral rights. This is the
question over which the land commia-
sioners ana tne attorney general nave
j had an extended controversy, the latter
taking the position that the purchasers
' nf flimh lands also aennire the minerals.
that may be on the land
STATE JTO AWARD CONTRACTS
FOR $1,000,000 SUPPLIES
Austin, Texas, May 15. Bids for the
purchase of nearly 1,000,090 of the
heavier commodities and products for
21 state institutions of Texas, will bo
opened on June 17
The principal food commodities are:
IVesh beef, 716.000 pounds, bacon bel
lies. 130.000 pounds, breakfast bacon,
3,000 pounds, navy beans, 90,000
pounds; lima twins, 90,000 pounds;
flour, 12,000 barrels black eyed peas,
27,000 pounds, prunes, Ji.040 pounds:
rioe, 80,000 pounds; salt. 150.000 pounds.
Miscellaneous items are: Men's iihd,
boys' ha!,.. SO dozen; gingham, 38,000
yard; Sheeting, so.ooo yards.
500 ASK ENLISTMENT
tu ctatt murro rnnrcJ
Austin. Teas. May If-Annon-nce"-
ment by governor Ferguson that the
sute ringe? force wa.o be bereased
at once by 50 men. and possibly 100
more, should the necessity arise for
.1 , .i - m .uiu .v......
4iifj iiivteciiun ui uchi mviir.
the bored. htu resulted In a flood of
annlications belnsr received for enlist- i
ment b the adjutant general's depart- I
menu uen. uicnings saia ne nns al
ready received upward of 500 applica
tions. The state prefers men of experience,
such as former sheriffs, constables,
ri&nutleR and other rtcAi'f nfflrent and
I this is the class of men being enlisted.
PURE FOOD MEN DESTROY
td aimi ntn nv tJAn" ennn
Austin, Texas, May 15. Reports of
th niirp fntiit ftnartmnt nhnw (hut
during the past six months 45,000 eggs
classified as "bed, were condemned,
nine carloads of canned goods were
destroyed, also 19 barrels of turkeys:
uesiroeu, also i Darrcis oi turxeys;
1000 pounds of spoiled meat: 1600
pounds of dried fruit, 490 pounds of
extra strength butter
5000 gallons of
fig preserves.
The pure food men also destroyed
3500 pounds of adulterated preserved
fruits.
TAFT SAYS BANK ACCOUNT
DIMINISHED AFTER 1912
Washington, D. C, May 15 Former I
president Taft appeared today in the '
perjury trial of three officers of the !
Riggs National bank, as a character j
witness in behalf of the bank's presi- .
dent, C. C. Glover, one of the Indictee!
men. Mr. Taft Raid he had known j
Glover for 16 rears and considered his i
reputation for honesty, standing and
character excellent Mr. Taft related
how his father and George W. Rings. I
founder of the bank, were classmates ,
at Yale. j
"Have you carried an account In the
Rlggs National bank?" Mr. Taft was '
asked.
"Such as I had," was tbe answer. "It
grew as it got into the presidential
portion." said Mr. Taft, and then, a
an afterthought he continued with a
broad smile that made tbe judge and
most of the spectators laugh with him "
"It diminished after losing the nresl-
. dential portion."
,,BW
i'is i:xpeots i.NTi:itrjvriox
UNLESS JItniT.YTIOXS EU
New York, May 15. Senator J Ham- '
llton , Lewis. , addressing the Society -of ,
declared intervention in Mexico Is sure , headquarters General Funston or- dent a message signed by Mrs. Har
to came unless the harrassing of the dered an Investigation ot the fires. ' rlet Stanton Blatch and 13 others of
, United States and its citizens in Mexico w't'', the exception of the 30th and tn t aml readln(r as follows:
I cease, though, he said, the president I Lh Third infantry, one battalion of the ' ' .ifl.. r
has no desire to take this course.
McCOKMILK IlEMtrNS AS
II UtVUSTCIl CO. OFFICIAL
Chicago, 111, May 15. The resigna
tion of Harold F. McCormick as treas
urer of the International Harvester
company and the International Harves
ter corporation was announced Gcor-le
A Ranney, secretary of the company
since 1913, succeeds Mr. McCormick.
Kiniir arj: HiirnitTEu killed
I. UUl'tl.NT CO. U.M'LOSION
Glbbstown. N J.. Mav 15 Eight men
are reported killed and a dozen injured
In an explosion todav at the Repauno
plant of the Dupont Powder company,
near here Among the dead are believed
to be the superintendent and his as
sistant. 4. -V
THE DV1 IN lONGItENS.
Senate. A
' onsldered nomination of Geo.
llublec to the federal trade-
commission in executive ses-
sion.
HoUMr. 4
Resumed diciussion rural
credits bill
Is Finished,
HE TUPS TO
BE SENT TO
BORDER
Thirtieth Infantry to Be Sent
to Rio Grande City to
Strengthen Patrol.
ARMED MEXICANS
SOUTH OF LINE
Sibley's Column Is Not to Be
Reinforced; May Return;
Is Outnumbered.
S'
AN ANTONIO, Texas. May 15. In
formation indicating a plan for
the resumption of raids across
the International line near Browns
ville, Te-.as, has reached army head
quarters here and will, it is expected,
cause a considerable strengthening of
the force now patrollng that district.
Gen, Funston and his staff will study
in detail today the proposed reorgani
zation of the entire border patrol, and
it was Indicated that the 30th in
fantry, coming from New York -state,
would be sent to Rio Grande City for
service between there and BroiurvIIIe,
the district frequently raided a year
ago.
Official reports from the. officer
cmunndlna; rave no IdUlonal ne'wn
of U-aetWltrea of armed .Mexicans
I onnoalte ProKreoo. Texas, but their
onposne .rrogreoo, Texas, nut ineir
. .. .. -.. "tw... ,a
'ports made by both agent, of the de-
Paxtment of Justice and of the state i
department. -.rflrr. ,h. '
position of the little foree that en- .
-i miaiuii duaivvj .-... -
iwi jivu ,,c. uvHuia? .-. ;
tereo Mexico near onqmiiB. ... -
dlotMt nt hpanaiiarters. COL olDiey
?JTOA "I.,?.0'"'"6! V, nr
.,, ,t . m.rhiiu nm.minranv. i
KUt army men here believ
that he
would have no difficulty in with
drawing if menaced by a superior
force
Border Siatlona Strengthened.
Already forces at border stations
have been strengthened and indica
tions today were that before the end
ot the week the greater part of the
regular troops and militia that have
been sent Into the border states would
be in shape and in position for quick
service along the international line.
General officers will be In charge
of the patrol districts. The district
commanders will include Brig. Gen
James Parker, commanding the First
cavalry brigade. Brig. Gen. W. A.
Mann, commanding the Second brigade
at Laredo, Texas, and Brig. Gen. H
A. Greene, who has been ordered to
report at headquarters here from Fort
Leavenworth
No More Troops For Sibley.
It Is lmprobeble that more troops
will be sent to CoL Sibley, who is in
charge of the little erpedltlon that
crossed into Mexico near Boquillas as
a result of the raid at Glen Springs
I and Boquillas a week ago Four .
troops of cavalry and a machine gun i
detachment are now operating close to
the line, scouting through a limited
territory south of the border, but there
never has been any Intention of send- .
inK forward at that point a punitive ;
expedition that would compare In size I
to that of Gen. Pershing In the state !
of Chihuahua. If the cavalry that Is
operating south of Boquillas fails to
locate any bandits within a few days,
He return to stations north of the line
Is probable.
Ilanillt May Be Headed Off.
Army officers here are deenly Inter
ested, however in the effnrta the Mm.
j lean troops were reported to be making
to run down the bandits who raideel
the Big Bend district and who yet
hold as a prisoner Jesse Deemer. the
American storekeeper. It Is regard
ed here as not impossible that the
Mexican troops may cut off the re
treat towards the interior, of the ban
dits aud force them b-ck into the lines
of Col. Siblev's cavalry.
ith tne exception of the attempt
1" Je8";0v
part of the buildings at i
' J""W '" u""s"
iniru riem uruiiery ana one company - ..-.. ........... ...... , --
of coast artillery, all the additional the United States. Washington. D. C.
troops ordered to report to Gen. Funs- We the undersigned campaigners in
ton have arrived. The 30th and Third .. ,, , . , ,.,, .,.f
wer- reported Sunday to have en- the suffrage states, note with interest
trained The Third will be sent to that secretary Lane goes as your per
Kagle Pass. i Sonal representative to South Dakota
The militia mobilization at Doug- . . . .... Ai..,-.t,irv te ctmi-r
las, Columbu-. and here was complet- to welcome to full citizenship 16 Sioux
ed Sunday Heie there are encamped Indians, every man of whom will un
three regiments of Texas militia, a doubtedly stand against giving women
squaaron or cavalry a. battery or new
a:ti"ery a1.? a field hospital company
oi me miiiua
TWO COMPANIES ARTILLERY !
ARRIVE FOR BORDER DUTY
The 69th and 41st companies coast
artillery from Fortress Monroe, Va,,
arrived here Sundav- morning under I
command of Capt lohn Tl" Gulick and
will be distribute il along the bornV
immediatelv The force eomprisei -OT
men and temporary vv ill be used at
infantry.
A detachment of 4ti mtn will proceed
to Ft Hancock and relieve- i troop of
the Eighth cavalry for service in the
Big Bend countrv Four more ram-
ranies are en route to the border from
' Tort Monroe
But the Rio Grande
COL. SIBLEY ASKS
TO REEF HIMJSE Tl NUTS
More Trucks Expected to Carry Food Supplies to the
Americans Operating in "Big Bend" District; Sup-
ply Base to Be Established in Mexico; Mexican
Bandits Seen Near McKinney Springs, Texas.
BY EDMOND I! EH It.
jyr
ARATHON, TEX., May 13. Army
men here -were of the opinion
this mornlntr that Col. F. W.
Sibley's punitive expedition is to be
heavily reinforced. Messages signed by
CoL Sibley received here last nlght.over
the army buzzer caused a bustle of ac
tivity among the members of the quar
termaster corps.
The contents of the messages were
kept secret, but various conjectures
were made as to their nature. The re
port given most credence was that CoL
Sibley had asked for enforcements, but
this was not authoritatively known.
Whatever the orders from Sibley, it was
apparent that additional supplies have
been asked for. Two motor trucks, load
ing during the night with hard bread
and bacon, went south at dawn.
Sibley's telegram was sent from a
nntnt 4 nllA nnrth if thf river At
Boquillas the farthest south of the
Army wire. Whether the expedition I
commander had returned there in per- '
son from the command in Mexico to get
in touch with higher military authorl-
ties was not made known at army lead-
quarters here ......
Movements Kent Secret.
Soldiers and civilians returning from
the river, as well as army officials here,
have been cautioned to keeji silent re
garding the movements of the two de
tachments 1n the field. Officers in
charge here are very reticent It be
II
came Known aurina ine nwnt mai sat-
Isfactcr. t ..raphld oommuiricatian
.mot b established Artth Boqnillaa
iot ne estaoii
nnsi ummi titnufred snmirriWflt tbles
h"WBt ,Jfrgl
".If-i KSJ. Twere sent south to-
.
. v k .i-i.n hiH
vL" ", T-ihornK avalrr
..-:.r.VT..Ctr..,rt tho Wrt.r to.
::..,, r: , ,. . .j .i,fc
wuiliu turn oacit iohu i.md uu.m.. v-
dav. Bv this time the column's rations
have besrun to run out. On the road a
day's march behind them are reserve
Supplies carried by Cot Sibley's 14th , This Incident has resmtett in Btrengu.
cavalrymen i ening the number of guards on army
To E-tabllan. Base In Mexico. I
From authentic sources. It was
learned this morning that Col Sible Is
PERSmilOTffRilDOFSn
ON RIS AIY
By GEORGE H. CLEMENTS.
ADVANCE Base Punitive (Expedition, U. S. Army, Near Laguna de Itascate,
Mex, May 13. (Via Radio to Columbus, N. M, May 15.) Gen. J. J.
Pennine, commander of the expedition, visited the camp this afternoon
on a tour of inspection and emphatically denied the alarmist rumors published
among many American, newspapers to the effect that the amy now m Mexico
is menaced on every hand. . . .
"You may say that our army now in Mexico is fully able to cope with an y
sittiation which may arise, but you may add that there is no danger of an attack
from any source or direction," he said. "As a result Of the battle at Ojos Axules
a few days ago such fear has been put in the heads of the bandits that it will
be a long time before they invite another such beating as was then given them.
Gen. Pershing denied categorically that there has been aiiy movements of
the army towards the border or that any such movement is intended in the near
fUtThe American lines of communication are well guarded and the forces so well
disposed as to be in no danger of being attacked.
Suffrasists Are Incensed
Because Indians May Vote
While Women Are Barred
Colorado Springs. Colo., May 5. At
tacking president Wilson for enfran
chising Sioux Indians In South Dakota
while refusing votes for women, mem
bers of the Congressional Union for
woman Suffrage, tourina- the west by
special train. Sunday sent the presi-
,f overnment when the suffrage
f dunl taken In Dakota. We
.., ... hur,ltntltv
to the Indians,
iliriv: jwmi ,.v.....rf
n-tiliA vim are not uslrur vour leader
ship in the Democratic party to assist
women in attaining a position In tne
United States constitution freely ac
corded to every man of whatever race,
of whatever color "
VMEUICAX VVIATOIl DELVYS
FLIGHT AND IlIOT FOLLOWS
Osaka, Japan. May 15 A riot oo
enrrea todav as a result of Arthur
Smith, an American aviator, delaying
the commencement of a flight. Smith
was injured slightly by stones thrown
t. the mob nnd was taken to a hos
pital Airplane nut damaged and its
shed destroved Twenty-eight rioters
vvetc at rested.
RAIDS
FOB MORE MEN
planning to establish a field base In
Mexico about 40 miles south of Boquil
las. How far south Maj. Langhorne's men
have penetrated into Coahulla. there is
no way of knowing definitely, but there
is little doubt that bis troopers have
ridden at least 100 miles from the Rio
Grande. This march would equal In
speed the famous drive made from Ha
chlta, N. M.. in March by the seventh
and 11th cavalry to Casas Grandes on
the trail of Pancho Villa. The two ban
dit prisoners brought here Saturday
from Boquillas were sent to the county
jail at Alpine yesterday. Charges of be
ing accessories to murder will be placed
against them.
Nothing has been learned of the fate
of the missing trooper of A troop, 14th
cavalry, who disappeared from Glen
Springs, Friday.
A company of auto trucks. 27 In all,
is expected today from Columbus, N. M.
The machines will be pressed into serv
ice at once.
Dandlia (hrer Line Again.
11 E. Stafford, an HI Pasoan here.
who arrived yesterday from Boquillas.
brousht a report that a band of armed
, jtexjaj, had been seen Friday night
, at MoKinney. springs, 67 raitaw) south of
h and on. the artheprB6illlas
rwa, over wmun m-1 aim auwi? f..aua
tra-veL
According to Stafford, several Ameri
can cowboys asleep at the McKinney
Springs ranch, were awakened by the withdrawing his troops northward where
barking of dogs. One of the men saw j tfaey will be organized in strong fiosi
seterararaed lroemi the under- y awalting the outcome of G-n.
JSKJ- A fSTe'Ttac?".," , Obregoefforts to clean up the bandit
the-ranch a1. Several sb !-
rd by the Americans at the shrieKing
j Mexicans but none took effect.
rei;
tireA .-m i Bflnt nwiesung-uie oiucn.
i 'irnric tsDnrui mv.h s
Next morning the cowboya discovered
the footnrints of five or six men in me
-- .---.----- -- - .i, Fn,. niin
duit nround the.ranch well. The conn-
try
was scoured for signs of the in
vaders, but none were tounev.
trucks plying bacK ana wrui .""s ""
road All civilians traveling over the
highway go hea ily armed.
FROII M SOURCES
I mnl Rtil I .ill fit i Frna
Is Taken From Stomach
Of Man Who "Drank" It
Kansas City, Mo.. May 15. A small
but extremely lively frog was extract
ed today from the stomach of John
Arnold by physicians at the Kansas
City, Kane., emergency hospital. The
animal. Arnold said, was swallowed
when he stooped to drink from the
surface of a spring near the outskirts
of the city. He immediately became
"ima3d h08p,UI autbom,e8 wer"
A stomach pump was used without
ii v... .. i,;ii.. n ih. h.it.p
that Arnold tried to commit suicide ernments would view with approval
Finally a powerful emetic was admin- intervention in Mexico by the Unltee'
latered. The result was a tiny frog. States. The convention voted nnani
about one-half inch in diameter, which mously for the recognition of Gen.
hopped about none the worse for its Carransa, it was added, although the
experience. 1 (Continued no race 3. Col I.)
Watching for the Smith
Political Articles in Herald
From Albuquerque (N. 31.) Journal.
GUTHRIE SMITll, of Alamogordo, arrived in Albuquerque Thursday
and will spend several days in this city tal.ing in the New Mexico
political situation trom the standpoint of both the Democratic and
Republican parties. 3Ir Smith has 1een commissioned by the El Paso
Herald to write a series of stories on New Mexico politics and the outlook
for nomination and election of candidates in both the political entraps, and
Ue is now making a tottr of the state gathering material for these stories.
3Ir. Smith is one ot the bct known and brightest newspaper men in
New Mexico. Ue ha a wale acquuitance with political conditions through
out the state, and hh stories In The Herald will be "read with much interest
here. '
Vallev Is
Carranza Troops Are Sent
Into Evacuated Zone to
Fight Bandits.
SCOTT REFORTS
ON CONFERENCE
Washington Hopes to Clear
Up Mystery of Who
Balked on Ratification.
4SH1NGT0N, D. C., May 15.
rending the ratltication ot an
agreement rerardinc the con
duct of the campaign in Mexico against
bandits, Mexican troops are lieing moved
into that portion ot Chihuahua from
which the United State- troops are bt
ing w lthtlrawu. It is undtratood tjen.
-lacinto Trcvino, commanding at Torn-on.
will go to Chihuahua city to direct the
MimnaMm 1 m nTx.liil0 Clan Paraliini, tK
.iaj. ijen. nagn , ocoit, cum or siai
! of 'the amy, returned today from !..
jj conference wlth Gen. Obresroii,
hopeful for the Mexican situation, de-
i BTiiTa Til i pt. innr. inp i iii i Hrfiiti"i rt"
. nQ fo , aereemei.t for co
suited in no formal agreement for co
operative action. The chief of staff con
ferred with secretarv of war Baker, but
made no formal report.
Gen. Scott will see secretary Lansing
Tuesday and meanwhile no steps will
be taken to reopen diplomatic negotia
tions for a formal agreement with Gcu.
j Carranxa.
j Would Clear Up Mystery.
I Secretary Lansing expects to have a
I long conference with Gen ,Scott be
fore the president prepares to renew
I" I diplomatic discussion of the status of
tne American expeditionary xorces.
en. Obregon's views will be fully can
vassed and the state department also
expects to get some light on whether
it was the war minister or Gen. Car
ranza himself who prevented the rati
fication of the formal agreement
worked out by the conferees at their
first meetings.
Question Is Pnxxlln&r.
This question has been a puzzling
one to many officials here. Special
agent Rodgers at Mexico City reported
that, the de faeto government had of
ficially announced the success of -the
border negotiations. This wa taken to
r mean that Carranza had approved the
plan.
Then came the statement by the con
ferees themselves that they had been
unable to reach a definite agreement,
and had decided to refer the matter
back to their respective governments
for diplomatic negotiation-. While
this report was enroute to Washington.
Mr. Arredondo called upon secretary
Lansing to state that his advices from
Mexico City indicated that the orig
inal agreement had been approved.
Gen. Scott is expected to clear up the
confusion resulting from this sequence
of conflicting reports.
Gen. Funston has mapped out a co
ordinated scheme for border patrol
with the 35,000 men he will soon have
available for that ptfrpose. exclusive of
the 14,000 or so in Gen. Pershing's
column.
Lntln America Approve Carranza.
It was said officially at the state de
partment that no suggestions, either
formal or informal were adoDted bv the
l South and Central American diplomats
in the conference which preceded Ue
recognition of the Carransa government
i oy tne united states, that tneir gov-
Just Begun
