DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 52.
BA11RK, VERMONT, MONDAY, MAY 15, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARM
GERMANS ON
DEFENSIVE
British Attacked in Effort to
Regain Lost Trenches
at Hulluch
BUT WERE REPULSED,
GERMANS REPORT
French Attacks in the Ver
dun Region Were Also
in Vain
Berlin, via wireless. May 15. The
British have been attacking the German
lines near Hulluch in northern France
in an effort to recapture the trenches
recently taken by the Germans but the
attempts have been repulsed, according
to the war office
In the Verdun region the French at
tacks failed near Dead Man's Hill and
the Caillette wood.
SMALL VICTORY
WON BY FRENCH
Paris Claims Capture of 15 Prisoners in
Champagne Region Bombardment
Kept Up Near Avocourt Wood
and Hill 304.
Paris, May 15. The bombardment in
the region of Avocourt wood and hill
304 in the Verdun section still continues.
according to an official statement issued
to-day by the French war oflice. In a
small engagement at the west of Mount
Tetu, m Champagne, the French cap
tured 15 prisoners. Calm is reported
on the rest of the front.
ITALIANS SUSTAIN
HEAVY LOSSES
Austrian Official Statement Declares the
Enemy's Troops Were Repulsed in
Several Attacks on Monte
San Michelle.
Berlin, via wireless, May 15. An Aus
trian statement dated Saturday and re
ceived here to-day says:
"Italian front Our troops repulaed
several attacks on the northern slope of
Monte San Michelle. Ihe Italians suf
fered heavy losses."
ON MACEDONIAN FRONTIER
CASEMENT
PUT ON TRIAL
Was Charged with Treason
When Arraigned in Lon
don Court To-day
DENIES GERMANY
OFFERED PEACE
President Poincare Also Declares that
France Does Not Want Germany to
Make an Offer.
Nancy, May 15. President Poincare,
in an address hero yesterday, responded
to Germany's declaration regarding peace
contained in the German reply to the
American note.
"France does not want Germany to
tender peace," said the president, "but
wants her adversary to ask for peace.
l he president then made known clear
ly the only kind of peace which would
be acceptable to France. The addrels
was delivered at the 'Molitor garrison
before a large number of I.oraine refu
gees, to whom the president after ex
liressinar hi svmrwfhies and renewincr
promises of solicitude and protection, CflSPTYlPTii. Sflid in Have Tried
France will not expose her sons to tO Influence IriSn Jt I"1S
the dangers of new acereHsions. The
central empires, haunted bv remorse for
having brought on the war, and terri
lied by the indignation and hatred they
have stirred up in mankind, are trying
to-day to make the world believe that
the allies alone are responsible for the
prolongation of hostilities a dull irony
which will deceive no lone.
"Neither directly nor indirectly have
our enemies offered us peace. But we
do not want them to offer it to us;, we
PRIVATE SOLDIER
ALSO ACCUSED
oners in Germany
London, May 15. Sir Roger Casement
supposed to be the head, and prime in
stigator of the Sinn Fein rebellion in Ire
land, was arraigned to-day in Bow street
court, charged with treason. Arraigned
with him was Daniel Julian Bailey,
want them to ask.it for us. We do not nrjvate .oldier. arrested near Tralee. Ire
. Z Z wmimuna, - ,,,, April 21 and charged with high
want, to imnnse our nn them. v not '
not want a peace which would leave treason
inperial Germany with the power to In opening the case for the crown, the
recommence the war and keep Europe attorney cenerat charced that Caaement
eternaiiy nienaeea. uc want peace eonduoted a 8vstematic campaign among
which receives from restored rights e- , . , . ' ...
Hons cuarantees of eouilibrium and ata- Ir,sh I-Mnera. in Germany, with the
bility. purpose of seducing them from their al
So long as that peace is not assured logiance. Bailey, he said, seduced in
to us; so long as our enemies will not thi manner, and had made a statement
recognize themselves as vanquished, we explaining Casement's actions in detail.
will not cease to fight."
GERMANY ACKNOWL
EDGES ERROR
TO SPAIN
Notifies Spanish Government of Will
ingness to Pay Indemnity for Loss of
Spanish Subjects On the Sussex
Madrid, via Paris, May. j. The Span
ish foreign office has received a note
from the German government acknowl
edging that the steamer Sussex was tor
pedoed by a German submarine, the ex
planation being given that the comman
der honestly believed it to be a warship.
The German eovcrnment trreatly de-
According to the attorney general
Hailcy was taken prisoner in the fighting
n France m September, 1914. While in
camp in Limburg, Germany, witli a large
number of other Irish prisoners, he heard
addresses by Casement, who tried to in
Hamo their minds against the Bntisn
government and to persuade them to
break their oaths of allegiance and sup
port a projected expedition to Ireland.
1 he attorney general taid Casement
had decided on himself as an organiser
for the Irish volunteers, and had im
pressed upon the Irish prisoners in Ger
many that everything was to be gained
for Ireland by Germany's winning the
war. Those prisoners who joined the
brigade he was attempting to form were
promised by Casement, Sir r retlenok
Smith said, that they would lie sent to
Berlin as guest of the government. In
the event that Germany won a sea battle
he would land the brigade in Ireland to
plored the misfortune and expressed re
gret, which was all the greater because defend the country against England and
Jbnnque uranados, the Spanish composer, if Germany lost the war the German gov
There Has Been Heavy Artillery But No
Infantry Action.
Paris, May 15. Heavy artillery firin
along the Macedonian frontier is reported
by the Havas correspondent at Saloniki
No infantry fighting is in progress. The
Bulgarian camp at Xanthi has- been bom
barded by a French aeroplane.
ZEPPELIN FELL INTO SEA.
Was Brought Down Off the West Coast
of Norway.
London. May 15. The destruction of
another Zeppelin is reported in an ex
change telegraph dispatch from Copfii
hagen. It is said the Zeppelin , was
brought down off the west coast of Nor
way and that three British destroyers
went in pursuit of it.
SPEEDY WORK BY POWELL.
Landed His Side Ahead in Arbuckle Co,
Receivership.
Burlington, May 15 Max I Powell of
this city has been appointed receiver in
the. bankruptcy case of the Arbuckle Co.
of this citv, bv Judge Harland B. Howe
T'nited States judge for this district. Mr,
Powell's appointment was made by
Judge Howe, pending adjudication in the
bankruptcy. ,
Mr. Powell's appointment came about
as tfe result of some very lively action
en his part ana lorcsvaiis the appoint
ment of a receiver on petition of the
Arbuckle Co. The Arbuckle Co. on Fri
day filed a petition for the appointment
tf a receiver. Mr. Powell learned that
Judge A. N. Hand, who heard the Aver-
ill case here in the absem-e of Judge
Howe, who was in New York, would not
hold a hearing on the petition as Judge
JTowe had returned and was in this dis
trict. It was then that Mr. Powell took
a spurt in a semi-racing car to Maid
stone, where Judge Howe was staving on
his farm. Mr. Powell left this city about
2 o clock Friday afternoon and arrived at
Maidtone, which is about 40 miles be-
vond St. Johnsburv, at ahout 5 o'clock.
Judge Howe appointed Mr. Powell re-
reiver on petition of the Howard Nation
al bank.
SUICIDE AT POLICE STATION.
Man Had Been Picked Up on Street in
Manchester, N. H.
Manchester. X. H., May 15. With i
jackknife concejled in his clothing. Zia
mull Mourtza slashed his throat at po
lice headquarters yesterday and, plung
iiiB the knife through the jugular vein
and severing the windpipe, died within a
few minutes. He was 26 years old and
uvea wn an unrie on auouitj street.
He had been employed at Goffstown
iintil three, months ago, when he wnt to
New York, where be remained until re
cently, when he rame to this city.
Mourtza was seen acting queerly on Elm
rtreet jesterday, and aa he made no re
ply to questions asked by Patrolman
fVannell, the latter sent him to police
headquarters. He was searched, but no
knife wa found, and then locked up.
loiter the attention of the house offi
xeer wan attracted to hw cell and Mourt
ra was seen holding a handkerchief, sat
urated with bWd. to bis neck. In tSe
Jreene of the nffieer hm stabbed him
self again and fell to the floor OtT
Vn:rin Pte mm railed, but Motirt
f a d e i tore the j l siciaa arrived.
nd his wife, were among the victims.
iermany further declared its readiness
to indemnify the families of those who
perisJied.
Ihe foreign minister has instructed
the Spanish ambassador at Berlin to
thank the German government.
HOTEL BARS CLOSED.
eminent would give each man 10 to 20
pounds and free passage to America.
Ihe attorney general then outlined
Casement's landing from a submarine at
Tralee, Ireland, with Bailey and a third
man ho is still at large, and of his sub
sequent arrest and he told of the sinking
of a ship sent from Germany with 20,000
rifles. Ihe calling ot witnesses for the
crown followed.
When opportunity was offered, Case
ment arose and declared that Bailey was
innocent of the charge against him end
offered yto procure counsel to defend Bail
ey, who, he said, wag without means.
Because Lice see, Max L. Powell, is a
State Senator.
Burlington, May 15. The Hotel Ver
mont and the Van Ness house are at
the present time without licenses' to
sell liquor, despite the fact that up to
shortly after noon Saturday bars had
been in operation at both hotels. This
condition, which will result in no liquor
being sold at the hotels for at least two Change Is Said To Be Due
weeKs, comes about as a result ot the
MARTIAL LAW LESS
STRICT IN DUBLIN
granting of two licenses to Max L. Pow
all, which, according to law, were unlaw
ful and void.
Section 1P4 of the acts of the legisla
ture of 1912 provides that no man hold
ing a public office shall be granted a
license for the sale of intoxicants. It is
a fact that Mr. Powell was elected sen
ator in 1914 and still holds that oflice
and will continue to hold it until hi:i
successor is elected. This matter was
called to the attention of the commis
sioners in a letter written by Rev. Clif
ford H. Smith, superintendent of the
Anti-Saloonr league.
Last spring at the time applicants
were sent in to the license commission
ers, C. A. Barber, Dr. J. M. Clarke and
H. Middlebrook, Mr. Powell applied
for two licenses, one for the Hotel Ver
mont and one for the Van Ness house
in which licenses had been held by Man
ager Coliamer. The commissioners
granted both these licenses, and th.:
fees, amounting to $1,800 for both, wee
paid. The licenses went into effect on
May J, with the other 17 licenses grant
ed by the commissioners in various parts
of the city.
On receipt of Mr. Smith s letter the
ommissionera conferred with State's At
torney Hopkins, who gave it as his opin
ion that the licenses were void. The mat
er was then laid before Mr. Powell, who
after looking up the law, found that lie
was not entitled to the licenses. Mr.
Powell immediately ordered that no
more liquor be sold at either hotel and
returned his licenses to the commission
ers.
The commissioners then decided to en
tertain applications for the granting of
wo licenses, those granted to Mr. Pow
II being void. Robert F. Coliamer, as-
istant to T. h. Krumbnniz. who Icasf-d
both hotels dating from May 1, has ap
plied for the two licenses.
to Premier
Asquith, Who Is Now in Ireland
Studying Conditions People
Have More Liberty,
Dublin, May 15. The great modifica
tion in the regulations of martial law
gave the people of Dublin yesterday a
freedom of movement strongly contract
ing with the restrictions Imposed since
the rebellion. All may now come and go
as they wish between the hours of 4 in
the morning and midnight. During the
remaining four hours they must keep
within doors.
It is generally understood that Premier
Asquith is responsible for this relaxation.
The premier's study of conditions and
the sentiments of trie people apparently
convinced him that there was no great
clement of rebellious spirit remaining.
Mr. AsquithV. chief occupation since
his arrival in Dublin has consisted in
seeking a method for the adjustment of
the Irish crisis and in ascertaining wheth
er it would be advisable to return to the
former system of government or adopt
a change of rule more in accordance with
the wishes of the people. The premier
has also given some attention to minor
factors, these having to do with the dis
posal of the remaining rebel prisoners
and romenation for the material dam
age done in IHiblin.
Neither of these questions has yet liecn
solved, but Mr. Asquith had an oppor
tunity to see and question a number of
rcliels in the detention barracks.
National and Cnionist circles are ani
matedly discussing tentative suggestions
respecting the future government of the
arisen from exaggerated stories passing
trom mouth to nmutn. ...
Asquith Goes to Belfast.
Dublin, via London, May 15. Premier
Asquith loft to-day for Belfnst to con
fer with prominent men in the north
after several days here.
UNITING IRISH FACTORS.
That is Reported to Be Premier Asquith's
Plan.
London, May IS, Premier Asquith's
visit to Belfast gives color to the re
ports he Is trying to arrange a coalition
between the two Irish factions for
temporary war government in Ireland,
There was no rebellious movement and
broader questions are prolmbly being dis
cussed.
WOMAN SHOT SIX MEN.
Countess Markievcii Used Drastic Means
When Followers Paltered.
' New York, May W. Dr. Cecil D. Mc
Adam of Melbourne; Australia, who was
attached to the Royal Medical corps of
the British army during the Gallipoll
campaign and who was besieged in the
Shelfoourne hotel in. JJublin during the
recent rebellion there, arrived here yes
terdav on the steamship Philadelphia
from Liverpool. He declared that he had
more narrow escapes' in the Lriafrcapital
during the short time .he was there than
in all the Gallipoll campaign.
Dr. McAdam said he saw the Countess
Murkievcia, attired in men's clothing and
wearing a brace of revolvers, leading the
Irish rebels. He was informed, he added,
that she had shot six of her followers
because thev refused to obey her orders.
GERMAN PROFESSOR
DECLARES LOYALTY
Prof. A. H. Appelmann of University of
Vermont Resents Criticisms that Have
Been Directed at Him Since the Out
break of Violence Against
Allies' Shipping.
country, with hone, but without certain
fv, that a change for the better will be 'minded man. uhih the whole world, can
Burlington, Mav 15. Goetiie lodge,
No. 252, of the German Order of Haru-
gari, celebrated the twenty-fifth amu-
ersary of the founding of the order
wuu appropriate exercises at mo uei
man hall on Crowley street Saturday
veiling. Supper was served to about
wo hundred guests, after which Pro
fessor A. H. Appelmann of the I niveis1
of V ermont delivered an eloquent ad
ress, in which he stated that the wih
f Germany and all Germans was peace
nd a better understanding between the
nited htate of America and Germany.
Following Professor Appelmann' ad-
ress, dancing was enjoyed until a late
hour. Professor Appelmann said m parti
arli
"The twenty-filth anniversary of the
oundation of our lodge and that of the
Order of the Haruaari has brought
jgether in large,num!tr. We are glad
that we can celebrate this dav in har
mony and joy, knowing our beloved
ountry is at peace with that land from
hich our forefathers sprang.
It is because of our love for the Star
nd Stripes that we want peace, and
merica llrst. last and always is our
ov. Hut alter we have fulfilled everv
bit of our sacred duty to this land of
our we do not want to be hindered in
retching our charitable arm across the
Atlantic to help our fathers and moth
ers, vour sisters ami brother to rebuild
their home that Armageddon has de
stroyed, to relieve the need with which
thev are stricken, and to bring up the
ild whose father is lost.
"We are constructive in our ideals and
oughts, and not destructive; we have
not and do not want anything in coin-
on with plotters and bomb thrower;
nd are in full harmonv with the Ger-
an government and all right minded
nd honest Germans who refute most
emphatically the vile doings of fanatics
the past who brought failure and dn-
acc to themselves and who did a bad
service to a just cause which they false
ly believed they would promote .
"I for myself refute with equal forct
those insinuations which certain unneu
tral and therefore un-American papers
have of late brought out against me on
the basis of material which 'an allied
government has furnished, according to
the New York Times, material which the
same paper refuses to let me see. I have
liven and want to le loyal to this coun
try and even that article in question
proves this plainly. It, ha been niy life-
work ever since I came to this country
to bring together by means of education
and lietter understanding those two
grrpt. nations, the I nited States ot
America and Germany; to get them to
understand, appreciate and realize, .o
what a wonderful achievement and per
fection thope great spiritual and mate
rial resources stored up in each of them
might be brought through mutual, peace
ful and. harmonious work.
"And this is what I, what. yon. what
Germany, what all of us. want; Peace
lietween those two countries, a square
ileal for ourselves since we have proven
to le as good and faithful citizens as any
in the union, and. finally, and most ot
all, a really neutral, big, nd flourishing
America, an America which everv fair-
SCOTT HOPEFUL
OF AGREEMENT
Arrived in Washington with
His Report on Border;
Conference. '
CHILD WAS SAVED
AS FATHER DIED
INGROTONPOND
NO EXENDED DELAY
EXPECTED BY HIJV
Meanwhile, Disquieting Re'
ports Come from Move
ment of Villa Forces,
Washington, D. C, May 15. Major
General Scott returned to-day from the
border conference with General Obregon
hopeful for the situation despite the fact
that the .conference resulted in no in
formal agreement for co-operative action
tie conferred with hecretary of War BaK
er but made no "formal report. He stat
ed that a favorable situation was created
by the conference.
.Major General bcott will see secretary
of State Lansing to-morrow and, mean
while, no steps will be taken to reopen
the diplomatic negotiations for a formal
agreement with Carranza. Scott thinks
there will be no great delay in reaching
an undcrstanrling.
In the meantime Carranza troops are
moving into t he bandit-ridden portions of
Mexico and Pershing a forces are concen
trating into strong groups along the lines
of communication.
American oil opera-tors at Tamnieo
ave asked the state department for pro
tection. , Advices said the activities of
Mexican troops caused increased alarm
n the foreign colony. I he request of an
American oil firm at Juxpam for a war
hip is under consideration.
San Antonio, Tes., May 15. Informa
tion indicating a plan for the resumption
of the raids across the international line
near Brownsville reached army head
quarters and was expected to cause con
siderable strengthening of the forces in
the district. The 13th infantry from
New York state will prolwbly go to Rio
Grande City.
RUMORED ATTACK NOT CONFIRMED.
American Border Patrol Said to Have
Been Fired Upon.
Columbus. N. M., May 15. Numerous
rumors current here that the American
border patrol had been fired on by Mex
icans somewhere in the vicinity of Hach-
ila, N. M., 45 miles west of Columbus,
were, given no credence by the authori
ties here. Reports to Colonel II, G.
Sickle, commanding the patrol, made no
mention of any such happening.
One story related that there had been
trouble at Culbertson's ranch near th
Arizona-New Mexico line and another
that a patrol had been engaged at An
telope Wells, south of Hachita.
News reached here yesterday of the
arrival at the expeditionary headquar
ters of truck Irains carrying $192,000 in
gold to pay the troops.
No official news of Major George T.
l.anghorne s dash into Mexico from San
Vicente Wednesday morning is available
It was unofficially reported here, how
ever, that Colonel Sibley has caught up
with Major Ivanghorne and that the
march had been resumed at double quick
time.
Walter H. Phillips, Assistant Treasurer
of Montpelier & Barre Light and Pow
er Co., Victim of Overturned
Boat While Fishing.
Thrown Into the water when the boat
in which he was fishing with Wendell
his five-year-old son, capsined, Waltf
H. Phillips, assistant treasurer of the
Montpelier &. Barre Light and Power
company, was drowned yesterday after
noon at Groton pond, where he went
Saturday night in company with Wil
lard Colton, also of Montpelier. The
body was brought to Montpelier short
ly after fl o'clock last evening by i
special train, which was made up
Wells River, and taken to the Dean T
ilton undertaking . rooms on East
State street. The funeral will be hel
Wednesday afternoon at 1 o'clock at his
late home, 219 Mm street, and the body
will be taken on the 10 o'clock train to
Maiden, Mass., for interment.
Mr. Phillips and his little son were
fishing in a cove not far from the shore,
the boat, one of the round-bottomed
variety, shaped much like a canoe, be
ing anchored at each end.' Mr. Colton
and two other men were on the shore
and their attention was first called by
cries from Mr. .Phillips and the boy.
Thev saw that the boat had turned over
and both occupants had disappeared. Mr.
Colton .and his companion were able to
wade nearly out to the overturned boat
and found the Phillips boy alongside the
boat.
Mr. Phillips, it is believed, did not
come to the surface until tie liau ex.
pired, and a physician who examined
the body at the camp expressed the be
lief, according to reports, that his heart
might have failed him when he struck
the water, causing him to lose conscious
ness.
Mr. Phillips was about 41 years of
age, being born in New Hampshire, lie
eaves a wife and four children, Ruth, 10
Dorothy, eight, Wendell, five, and Bar
bara two; also two sisters, Mrs. Her
bert Gidney of Boston and Carrie, who
resided in Ohio, and his father of Pas-
sadena, Cal. Mrs. Phillips was proa-
rated bv the news of the sudden death
of her husband.
He came to Montpelier in the winter
of 1912-13 from Maiden, Mass., where
he had been cashier of the Maiden Gas
company for four years and prior to that
ime had been employed in a similar
capacity for the 'fenny concern in Ha
verhill, Mass. He was a Mason and a
member of the Apollo club of Montpel
ier, a member of the Montpelier Mili
tary band, and an accomplished violinist."
SAVED FROM DROWNING.
TWO AUTO FATALITIES.
Awaiting Reinforcements for American
Column.
Marathon. Tevas. Mav IS. The expe
dition searching for the bandits who
ri,l.l llcnn Snrins has checked its
brought about. Mr. Asquith s presence and must admire: an America which, by flush into Mexico and is now awaiting
here has lent color to the belief that the force of its strict neutrality in this ' reinforcements. In the message ent to
prime minister had snme project in mind worl.l tlisaster. its suhlimity to political Funston asking for help the bandits were
ami that his study of conditions on the world-quest ion and its broad and lair
MYSTERIOUS FIRES AT FORT BLISS.
Several Buildings Destroyed Funston
Orders Investigation.
El Paso, Texas. May 15. Army post
and stations along the border were on
their guard against incendiaries yester
day as a result of two fires Saturday at
Fort Bliss, where flames of undetermined
origin destroyed a storehouse, three cav
alry stables, three horses and some tents.
Army officers express the opinion that
an investigation will disclose the fires
could not be spontaneous or accidental
origin. Jt was said that there was no
attempt on the ammunition house. Th"
storehouse, where the first fire occurred,
contained some machine guns.
Two other fires of recent occurrence
have been of suspicious nature. At the
field base at Columbus, X, M., aboutj
$7ix worth of hay was burned. Two
weeks aijo the Kl Paso Country club,
not far from Fort Bliss, burned with a
loss of $35,000.
St Johnsbury Youth Was Swept Over
Dam Into Rapids.
St. Johnsbury, May 15. A drowning
accident was averted here yesterday by
the quick work of Adelard J. Paj-eur,
who jumped into the Moose river and
rescued Ernest Jay. six-year-old son of
Alfred Jav. The little ly had wandered
awav from home following older compan
ions, who were fishing on the river bank.
He tried to cut a fish pole, lost his bal
ance and fell some distance into the river
just above the 15-foot mill dam of the
American Hoe x rork Co.
As the small bov was hurled over the
dam, Pnveur, who was out for an after
noon stroll, saw the body and, throwing
off his coat, plunged in just below the
rapids. He brought the buy up and ap
plied first aid and carried him home. The
child is badly cut and bruised, but his
condition is not serious. This is the sec
ond person Mr. Payeur has saved from
drowning.
TWO GOLDEN
WEDDINGS
Mr. and Mrs. B. P. Willed
and Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Shu
felt Celebrating -To-day;
LIVE ON SAMF , rtEET;
BOTH MEN.TERANS
And SiV .-s Reside in the
Housermerly Occupied
bjr the Willeys
LABOR'S TRIBUTE TO G. B. MILNE.
San Antonio. Tex.. May 15. Gen
eral Frederick Funston has ordered an
investigation of the fires at Fort Bliss.
NEW PURSUIT HALTED.
"Ardent Champion of Downtrodden"; Had
"Great Big Heart for the Afflicted."
In the passing of George B. Milne the
industrial life of our citv and state has
lost one of its ablest members. Nature
endowed him with great reasoning capa
bilities and he was always on the side of
justice and righteousness, an ardent
champion of the downtrodden and a great
big heart, for the afflicted. Men of hi
high character are naturally missed when
they cross the great divide never to re
turn.
We extend to his wife and son our sin
cerest sympathies and condolences at the
great loss they have sustained. May his
spirit reach that eternal state of repose
that is always guaranteed to those who
do their duty while on this earth.
(Signed) Alex Ironside.
For the Vermont state branch of the
American Federation of Labor.
BODY ARRIVES IN BARRE
spot would help him formulate a definite jmindedneiis in the council of the world,
Boy and a Man Killed at Rumford,
Me.
Buraford. Me.. Mav 15. 1( Fitzser-
Id, 10-year old win of Edward Fitzger-
Id of Mexico, was killed on the Swift
river bridge jester. Uy afternoon, when
ran across the bridge to watch his
plavmates who were fishing, and was
struck by the at of Joseph Paradis.
He died before reaching M, artCs pos
tal. Witnesses report that Paiadls
was not driving at an iip rate.
At 4:30 vcterdiv afternoon at the
hospital. Joseph Arnault died from the
effects of an accident which occurred at
1U:.T ?-aturdav evenirx. when he
plan to place before Parliament
The view widely prevails that Mr. As
quith will propose to incorporate the Na
tionalist and I'nionist forces of armed
volunteer into the auxiliary troops of
the imperial army, and thus avoid the!
admittedly perilous problem of disarming'
everybody in Ireland not belonEins tt '
the same time, the opinion grow spare
in favor of a rnl Irh executive coun
cil formed of Irishmen entirely conver
sant with the people and their aspira
tion and needs.
til IKa n.vmi r.ra u ' . f , mr liu,. PT
...... ,1,. A,.,r ,1-t . k.. L....!n
should he made out of the situation mJ
rail for concessions br the extremists nf I 1"'
lxth ile. who. they fle-!re. do rep.
resent the true feehrcs of hr Ini peo
pie
leads the world.
"For this country, lailie and gentle
men, let us rise and let us toast: "Amer
ica t peace for ever.' "
STUCK TO HIS TEXT.
Charles C. Wilson Said Nothing
About His Suit.
run into by an auto owred and driven j Peep rrrnw premi! tmrmg IJve people
R"t. n. May IS. Rev. Charles Chase
Wilson preached a uiil. as pastor "f
the Chur h of Our Saviour )Kpicopa'.
at Kosbndale. vesfetdav. Manv who
ire not regular communicants attended
the mornttif er ' e. evHmtlv because
i,ii;ir that Mr, Wilson might
n-r ke st lesst some indirect refer. -n- e t
ib case mm her tried in the federal
court, whete-n M,s I ur I.. Johnson of '
Minne polls i sr. in him 'or ?' '."" for !
reported as operating behind the expe
dition.
NEW LEATHER CORPORATION.
Warren Hide & Leather Co. of Morris
ville Capitalized at $100,000.
With capital stock of $JiVi,ooO. the
Wairen Hide A Leather Co.. Inc.. of Mor
risville. has filed article of association
ith the secretary of etate. The articles
state the intention of the corporation to
do a trem-ml business in hide and leather
and to manufacture harne and othpr
lathr good. The incorporators are
Frank M. Failev and Henrv I. Aver of
I'm, .ton. C. N. Shx-nm ot Mittim iHc and
l'. C. W'arren of Waterbury.
Actions in Probate Court.
And Funeral of George B. Milne Will Be
Held Tuesday.
The body of Ceorge B. Milne, with
Mrs. Milne and her son. Edmund, arrived
in Barre on the 1 o'clock train thi after
noon, and was taken to his home On
Spaulding street.
The funeral will be held from the house
at 2 to-morrow afternoon. Kev. Edgar
( rossland of the rresbvterian church of
ficiating. The interment will be in Elm
wood cemetery.
From word received this morning by
J. M. Boutwell. the cause of death was a
hemorrhage, death following in five or
six minutes.
HUGHES STICKERS RECEIVED.
Will Be Distributed at Polling Places in
Tuesday's Primary.
Vermont" first presidential preference
primary will he held luesday, and the
voting plaves will be open in all the cities
anil town from 12 o'clock noon until 8
oYkx k in the evening. There will be but
one name on the oilicial ballot, that of
W'.ssdrow W ilson. Democrat. N other
munc were filed bv nv partv.
The supporter of t barb s F.. Hushes of
Kueil (..Collin of t.;ist M ntpelier set
lei his account s truardisn of ti. W".
tack Nenn-ar of Mexico. he nas of fhihlin. trsnv of whom lo.t n Uthes , ,,r," ' I I! h" mniitif 1 J p,x mond. now of t.eorge W . ;rover
ercssinjr Congress street. He was "t and 1 either anvor.g ti e r h' or troot. onrir,-. i Hmsejf to hi rnsw. e. hangtrg jjreet ' ,.f vVati-rbury was appointed administra-
uitmarried. H was a luml-er man andfthe f-ght ing. or airong ih cniHun V r "'h his pjm'unwr. at the end ot' tor of the tat of lather . Chaw, late
ad just returned from the woods. Ken ' suffer i death from st r v shots. Man v the eri . In t he ei nine hr d!rese.i , ,,t ,e. The wiJI nf Sarah . firm
Residing on the same street, almost
within a stone's throw of each other,
two families in Barre are celebrating to
day the 50th wedding anniversary of two
worthy couples, . At 151 South Main -
street, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen J. Shufelt,
surrounded by their relatives, are recall
ing their marriage of a half -century ago
n Lowell, Mass. A few rods farther up
the thoroughfare, Mr. and Mrs. B. P. Wil
ley are observing their golden wedding
anniversary at No. 222. Mr. and Mrs.
Shufelt were married May 14, 18fi0, in
Lowell, Mass., while the wedding of their
neighbors took place in Weet Fairlee a
day after, or just 50, years ago to-day.
It is interesting to note in connection
with the two anniversaries that Mr. and
Mrs. Willey, coming into the south-end
neighborhood to reside around 41 years
ago, made their home in the bouse now
occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Shufelt at the
op of Jockey Hollow hill.
Of added interest, too, is the fact that
both husbands in the wedding ceremonies
r a haJf-century ago had returned but
hortly from the battlefields of the Civil
war, Mh Shufelt having proven his al
legiance to an adopted country by fight
ing for the north in a Massachusetts regi
ment, while Mr. Willey went out with a
volunteer Vermont regiment.' Both are
members of R. B. Crandall post, No. 58,
. A. K.
All four principals in the anniversaries
are in excellent health. Nothing of an
laborate nature attaches to the celebra-
ion in cither home to-day. Mr. and Mrs.
Shufelt kept open house from 2 until 5
clock this afternoon and will receive
their friends again thia evening from 7
II 10 o clock. Air. and Aire, willey, as
sisted bv their son and daughter-in-law.
entertained this afternoon and will be at
home again this evening.
htephen J. Shufelt and Florence R.
Baldwin were married in Lowell, Mass.,
May 14, 186, by Rev. Mr. McOowan, a
Methodist clergyman. Mr. Shufelt waa
bom in Dunham, P. Q., Dec. 12, 1842.
His wife, a native of Stan stead, P. Q.,
as born Dec. 30, 1846. Mr. Shufelt is
farmer by occupation, although for sev
eral years he has been retired. Large
farms in the Eastern Townships have
been tilled under hia hand since he at
tained hia majority, and even now he
finds pleasure lfl caring for a small gar
den, where a reporter for The Times
found him when he called. As young
man he went to Massachusetts and when
the Civil war broke out he enlisted from
Lowell in the second Massachusetts vol
unteers, serving at Antietam, Gettysburg
and Cedar Mountain, among other en
gagements, in a three-year enlistment.
For some time after their marriage
Mr. and Mrs. Shufelt lived in Barnston,
P. Q. Six years ago they .came to Barre
to be with their two daughters, Mrs.
Cora M. Wilkinson and Mrs. Nettie M.
Curtis of this citr. Their son, Claude I
Shufelt, is a resident of Newport. Mr.
Shufelt is an active member of the (. A.
R. post and his wife takes a deep interest
in the welfare of allied patriotic organ
izations. Both are adherents of the
Methodist church.
Benjamin P. Willey and Marion A.
Carleton were married in West Fairlee
May 15, 1S66, by Rev. Mr. Cross, a Bap
tist minister. Mr. Willey waa horn in
Barre Feb. 15, 1838, and his wife's natal
day is Jan. S. She was born in Vershire
72 years ago on the ancestral Carleton
farm. For three years after their mar
riage Mr. and MVs. Willey lived in West
Fairlee. removing later to Barre, where
the former was long employed as a car
penter. In more than two score years of
their residence in the south end neighbor
hood they have seen many changes take
plaee. Mr. Wiley was identified for a
term of 3-ears with the fork shop on
South Main street and afterward he con
tinued to do carpenter work. They hav
one son, Harry P. Willey, whoae home ia
near the residence of his parents. Mr.
Willey haa long been one of the staunch
members of R, B. Crandall post, having
served the organization as quartermaster,
an office which ho holds at the present
time. He is a Mason and with Mrs. Wil
ley he belongs to Ruth chapter, O. E. S.
Mr. Willey and his wife both have their
church affiliation.
SALOON CLOSED ON ATTACHMENT.
near i machine ninmi.j f
eitM mile an hour, t
Ui aee it approaching.
about ! rrpr rt are rtirrert eonrn:t ; the a! the mr m e : s
t Jmiuilt failed lesed Kartw4 o tre trw.p. K;t - far V ttt tv-e
te .-et !.,'.
aa can be karat 1 ttee ar-jer to La Vh ma asi State.
'1 i hre
i;;r tiiurcji. si-eakliiZ va fir.
ew tork for the l,,ni,!.li -an nomination
In prolate rourt at Montpelier to-day J aro mskifB an effort to swira the pri
mary to him: and to that end tiikersl
have been sent to the cities and towns
to be distributed to the republican vot
ers. A supply ot the stickers !: IWn proNfte court will appoint a guard'aa It
received m Harre and they will be dis- I eotvtuct the busine until Mr. Fan re
tributed at the j voting lnees ot" tHeleoiers from hi ailment, and that a v"
, t.. !ide-, attaihinc the sticker the 1 fiercest w ,"! be made w it H creditor and
voter mut mirk a crv-s after t!.e name te htne rortlnued for the benefit ( i
New Feature Added to Middlesex License
Regime.
The second class licensed saloon at
Middlesex, owned bv John P. Fgan, w
closed late Saturday afternoon, an at
tachment being served br the sheriff"
department for Caul Wilson, whole
alc liquor dealer of Barre, to whom
Fgan was indebted for stork, it ia re
ported. In probate court Saturday after
noon the matter of appointing a guardian
for John Kgan. who i at present an in
mate of the state hnspitat, was pott
poned indefinitely, so that it is uneertain
whether or not the saloon will be closed
for anv length of time.
Had the majority of the voter of the
little town of Middlesex foreseen whit
wis to occur a the result of the villag
gntns licene. the vote m:g!t nava been
different, the vote having caused no end
of trouble, starting with the appoint
ment of license romm isioneri. one of tb
appointees wa declared ineligible. Mr.
Fgan w taken rvntally ill Hortlv be
fore the time for the opening of tfce
establishment and now tb saloon bi
heen losed for an indefinite! period.. It
lpeved m Montpelier. howivr, that
hit- f M. ntpebei. wn propn an !
P. templet n of Mon' pl:cr was
(Pf tte candidate,
f be Ee-a fasj ,
1
