I '
\
^VEATHER- ^ if k 4 /\ "Hnajf "From Presa to Home
Unsettled tonight and tomorrow, prob- * M I A A -J /- 4. A. .A Ay /A ^ ? a. . A a 1 U U ^????^?
itih^ 41^ it PtTftTit SWTSir M wt,hi"H? "
; a-.ssft.-iS.-a-"- .; wlj^ Wi WJ i^^/l'W'/l' ?,_V.,> ^
(LOSIMi NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 16. N- S \mS 1?16, Dally Average, TS.SSTl Saaday. SglK
No. 29,522. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1916.?TWENTY PAGES. ONE CENT.
FOR COMING YEAR
HEADS OF DISTRICT
ASKS16,961,092.66
i
Included in Estimates Is $683,000
for Expenses of the
Water Department.
i
TOTAL IS $4,081,385.56
OVER PRESENT PROVISION
Among Recommendations Are Law j
for Annual Automobile Licenses
and Changes in Bureau.
Commissioners a>k for
S l ,092.00 to maintain
the city in the fiscal year
ending June 30. 1918.
This is over S4.000.000
j more than the current a^t.
Annual automobile license I
; law proposed.
J . 11. .I.-r.-i rH.i,....
. Viiw uv-pauuiviu Cll"
| larged.
Xew downtown swimming
J pool provided.
Free text books for high ! i
i school students.
| Over a million dollars for i
i new schools; nearly a million
and a half for parks and
river improvements.
F'und to fight .infantile
paralysis.
The Commissioners of the District of
Columbia estimate that $16,161,092.66
will be necessary for the support and
progress of the National Capital in the
fiscal year ending June 30. 1918. these
figures being lai<! before Congress to- !
day by the Secretary of the Treasury.
This sum is $4,081,385.56 greater than
the appropriations carried in the current
act. and includes the expenses of
the water department of the District.
Excluding the water department, the
estimates carry $16,278,092.66.
There are many interesting and important
projects and recommendations
^ held up to Congress by the Commissioners
Among* these are a proposed
increase in the police department; salary
increases in the fire department
and $140,000 worth of new motor-driven
fire apparatus; legal provision for free
high school text books; a large sum \
o. money to fight infantile paralysis; J
a new wharf on Water street; a new !
bridge over the tracks of the Baltimore i
and Ohio railroad on the line of South I
Dakota avenue, and new sewage treat- !
ment works.
Recommend Municipal Hospital.
Trie Commissioners recommend again
a municipal hospital, to cost $500,000;
the purchase of the Dean and Patterson
tracts and a strip of Klingle valley for
park purposes. The sum of $3UO,000 is
recommended for the Anacostia river
reclamation project.
A new motor vehicle license law* is |
proposed. Under its terras automobile j
owners would have to procure a new i
license tag yearly, as in Maryland at ,
present. Changes in the license bureau j
to conform to this proposal are recom- j
mended also. A superintendent of j
licenses would be created.
The proposed new motor license law .
provides:
"That on and after December 31, 1017,
all licenses, including identification
tags and registrations, for motor vehicles
heretofore granted, shall expire
and become null and void, and on and
after January 1, 1018. there shall be
charged annually for the licensing and
registration of motor vehicles a sum
to be fixed by the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia, and the owner of
each motor vehicle shall be required
to pay annually to the collector of taxes
of the District of Columbia such sum
as may be fixed by said Commissioners,
which shall include registration and
the furnishing of an identification number
tag; that the term 'motor vehicle'
as herein used is defined to include
automobiles, motor cycles, and all other
vehicles propelled by power other than
gines. road rollers, fire engines and apparatus.
police patrol wagons and ambulances,
steam railroad cars, street
railway cars, and such other vehicles as
run only upon rails and tracks, and the
Commissioners of the District of Columbia
are hereby authorized to establish
such rules and regulations as are
necessary in their Judgment to carry
out the provisions hereof, and to a!fix
thereto such fines and penalties as in
their judgment are necessary f<.r the
enforcement of this act and the regulations
made under the authority thereof."
New Plan for Highway.
l-egislatlon is also recommended for
preparing a new highway plan within
the limits of the tract known as the
Barry farm.
That Juries in condemnation cases
shall not be restricted as to the as- j
sessrnent area, but may spread bene- j
tits wherever they think it right, the 1
following proposed legislation is recom- '
mended:
"That hereafter iu all proceedings fori
the opening, extension, widening or I
straightening of alleys and minor
streets and for the establishment of
building lines in the District of <*oluinbia
the Jury of condemnation ehall
not be restricted as to the assessment
area, but shall assess the entire amount
awarded as damages i>lus the costs
and expenses of the proceedings as
benefits upon any ami all lots, parts of
lots, pieces of parcels of land which
they may find will be benefitted by the
opening, extension, widening or
straightening of the alley or minor
street, or by the establishment of the
building line as they may find said lots,
parts of lots, pieces or parcels of land
will be benefitted."
The proposed new sewage treatment
works would be placed on the banks
of the Potomac river, below the Home
for the Aged and Infirm. Forty thousand
dollars is the sum requested for
this work.
Another project which has been
recommended to Congress in previous
m estimates . is the garbage disposal
plant. The Commissioners again recommend
the expenditure of <200,000 to(Continued
on Tenth Page.)
*
64TH CONGRESS
CONVENESATNOON
IN FINAL SESSION!
I
?
President Wilson and Majority
Leaders Desirous of Expediting
Legislation.
I
SUGGESTED ELIMINATION |
OF THE HOLIDAY RECESS
Big Supply Bills, Further Railway
legislation and Other Measures
on the Program.
The final session of the Sixty-fourth J
Congress was ushered in at noon today 1
when the Vice President and Speaker
Clark called the Senate and House to j
order.
After a recess of less than three '
months, the greater part of which was i
spent in strenuous campaigning, the j
senators arnl representatives returned j
to the <*apitol today facing a well
well nigh impossible task?the paVsage
of the great supply bills, the enactment
of further railroad legislation and the
passage of conservation, corrupt practices,
immigration and other important
measures within the brief session
which closes automatically March 4.
Urge Haste in Legislating.
It has been noised abroad that the
President and the democratic congressional
leaders will urge that the legislative
program be stripped to the bone ,
in order to have the program com- j (
pleted by the end of the short session. ?
Railroad legislation, however, is a sine j
qua non, if the reports emanating from j
the White House are correct. Should !
the Supreme Court hold the Adamson \
eight-hour law unconstitutional. un- 1
doubtedly there will be an attempt to j
amend the law. In fact, the remedy I
may be found by Congress before the
court passes upon the constitutionality |
of that law. The President will in- j
sist. it is said, upon the enactment of a j
law which will insure an investiation i
of industrial controversies before j
strikes and lockouts may be ordered. j
President Wilson has the assurances j
of Speaker Clark and Representative j
Kitchen, majority leader, that they<
would try to hasten enactment of rail- j
road legislation. Both expressed the
opinion, in a conference with the President
last night, that measures to supplement
the Adamson law could be
passed in the short session, but they *
asked the President's influence to elim-lt
inate the usual two-week Christmas ,!a
holiday recess. Similar promises of |
co-operation on the railroad acts wil! |c
be souht by the President this week
from Senate leaders. r
Many Favor Food Embargo. t
Many members of Congress today ap- | a
peared to favor some kind of embargo j a
on food exports or other action to re- j f
duc? soaring pfN-cs. Representative ' j.
Fitzgerald, democrat, of New York had j c
announced his intention to reintroduce
today his bill authorizing the Presi- t
dent to declare an embargo on expor- ; ..
tation of wheat.
Every effort will be made to avoid ;
the necessity of calling an extra ses- i e
sinn of Coneress next snrine: not onlv v
because the members desire to prevent j
such an occurrence, but also because 1 r
the probabilities now are that the j
House of Representarives in the next ,
Con cress will be organized by the re- h
publicans, which would make it diffi- ^
cult for the administration to put j
through any party measures. i
"Lame Ducks" Plentiful. '
The members of Congress put aside [
their political differences for the time
being as they gathered once more at
the Capitol today, and cordial welcome
was extended by democrat to republi- ! ,
can, and republican to democrat. "Lame i
ducks," the senators and representa- i
tives defeated for re-election, were ;
condoled with, and the successful can- i
didates for re-election were congratu- !
lated. Incidentally, there are a considerable
number of "lame ducks" in ,
both houses of Congress. j
The business in both houses was routine
and perfunctory today, the sessions
lasting only a short time. Tomorrow
the President will come to the
Capitol and deliver his annual address j
to Congress in joint session in the ?
House.
The galleries of both Senate and
House were crowded by spectators anxious
to see the opening of the Con- j
gress.
Three New Senators-Elect
Attend the Opening Session; j
Work to Start With a Rush
The'Senate was in session only a few
minutes, following its assembly at noon
today. After the roll had been called,!
showing seventy-nine senators present,
and a committee had been appointed to ;
wait upon the President in company j
with a similar committee from the)
House, a recess was taken until 3j
o'clock this afternoon. J
Three new senators-elect attended
the opening session, Mr. Watson of Indiana.
who succeeds Senator Taggart;
Mr. Fr-rnald of Maine, elected to fill the j
vacancy caused by the death of Sena-,
tor Burleigh, and Mr. Kirby of Arkansas.
elected to fill the vacancy caused
D.v hip n''Hin ot oenaior Mai Rr
It was expected that Mr. Fernald and ;
Mr WatBon would take the oath of ; *
office when the Senate met again Ht (
3 o'clock. Mr Kirby probably will not j(
be sworn in until tomorrow, owi/ij,' to 1
the fact that the Senate up to the j ,
time of its meeting at 3 o'clock had j
not received formal notification of the j ,
death oi Senator t'larke. who died after '
adjournment of Congress last September
Senator Robinson of Arkansas 1r-otified
the Senate of the lcath of his J ]
c.ol!e:tKue, and the Senate then adopted';
resolutions expressing jegret for the j
death of Senator Clarse. and as a mark ,
of further respect to his memory took
an adjournment. %
President Is Informed.
The Vice President appointed Senator
Kern, the democratic leader, and
Senator Gailinger. the republican leader,
as a committee to wait upon the
President and inform him that Congress
was in session and ready t? receive
any communications that he
might desire to make to it. Senator
j Kern, when the Senate reconvened at
I 3 o'clock, announced that the committee
had performed this duty.
At the opening of the session the
' (Continued oiWBecondPage.)
f
BILLION AND HALF
ASKED BY THE U. S.
FOR COMING YEAR
Greatest Sum Ever Requestec
for Conduct of Government
Sought of Congress.
AMOUNT REACHES TOTAL
OF $1,654,819,654.02
Thousands of Salary Increases Art
Recommended?Two Big Bridge
Projects for Washington.
Government estimates sent
to Congress today amount
! to $1,654,819^54.03.
This is tile greatest sum
| ever asked of Congress.
Thousands of salary iu|
crea>es are recommended.
Army and navy expenses
figured at nearly $800,000,(XXI.
High cost of living and
preparedness put a damper
on many departmental proj- ;
ects.
Two big bridge plans for
Washington.
The greatest sum ever asked for the
;onduct of the government was reluested
of Congress today when Secreary
MsAdoo sent the annual estinates
to the Capitol, the amount of th
ecommendations for expenditures foi
he fiscal year 3 918 being $1,654,819,154.03.
This is greater by $370,000,000
:han the original estimates for th?
current year, and greater by $240,000,I
(i fl ?
ear. when swollen by the changed
ivorlil-conditrons, and extra requests
or money on account of moving troops
o the border. The huge sum asked for
oday includes sinking fund requirenents
of $60,748,000, and postal service
?eeds amounting to $325,355,820. The
atter sum is expected to be returned
o the Treasury from the postal revnues.
The total estimates excluding
hese items amount to $1,268,715,834.
.nd the total appropriations for tht
urrent year were $1,184,157,517.
The increase for actual governmental
l~ds_ is approximately $84,000,000. and
his in large measure represents the
rend of the "high cost-of government."
Ln army and navy, costing as much in
. year as an empire, asks for $757,584,560
.nd this military feature of the governnent.
coupled with the general advance
n the estimates for salaries and wages,
las evidently caused the administration's
iflicials to pare down many other projcts.
The preparedness program, the inreased
cost of living and the burdens
hrust upon the country because of the
var are responsible mainly tor the inreases
in the estimates.
In nearly every office under the government
increases in salaries and wage*
lave been askd. No definite horizontal
ncrease in statutory salaries has beer
ecommended; but the individual salary
ncreases recommended are to be reckoned
in the thousands. Congress, already
ibout to take up the legislative, execuive
and Judicial appropriation bill carryrig
18,000 salaries, will be indeed deaf il
t does not heed the clamor from the adninistration's
officials asking that government
clerks' salaries, long due for a
nerited increase, shall be brought closer
o the advanced cost of necessitiesSum
for Army and Navy.
The estimates submitted by the army
md navy, through the proper departnents,
indicate that before the preseni
session closes Congress will be askec
? ?irinrnnriatp aiinrnvinmf?lw tfiAA .
>00,000 for the military and naval needs
>f the country. The estimates laid be
ore Congress today are about $43,000,
>00 less than this sum, but statements
nade before the House naval affairs
committee by naval officers who hav?
ippeared there already, lead members
o expect enormous supplemental es-ti
nates later in the session.
The larger army demands $373,074,165,
an increase of about $70,000,00(
>ver the amount appropriated for 1917
The navy's total is $379,151,701, whicl
s an increase of $06,451,140 over th?
current act. the largest of its kind so
rar. Panama canal fortifications wii
ake $5,358,300, an increase, of aboui
1300,000.
More than 510,000,000 of the army increase
will go into the payment of reg
ilars, national guardsmen arid mem
jcrs of the reserve. A total of $97,*94,995
is sought under the pay item
md ^the estimates show that the number
of privates provided for under this
jection is 258,594. Of that total, 94,27i
ivould be in the regular service anc
164,315 in the National Guard.
Provision also is made for the paynent
of 25.000 members of the regulai
unlisted reserve and for full-rate pay
nent of these men for fifteen days
ield training during the j-ear. Th?
provision for payment of reserve off!
?;rs is $3,151,983, and that for paying
National Guard officers $3,396,94 0.
Another $2,000,000 of the increase wil
<o to the aviation section, which subnits
estimates for the expenditur?
luring 191* of $6,200,000 on new aeroplanes
and $ 1,000,000* for balloons. A
separate item submitted, it is stated
it the request of the Navy Departmen
in the Panama canal estimates, is $250,
>00 for the establishment of an avia
Lion station in the Zone.
For the protection of the canal it ii
shown that $780,000 is to be expender
searchlights and other equipment to
the mobile troops which army offlciali
have declared must be ready to repe
in attack by land. New military road;
are to be laid out under this plan
More than $1,500,000 will pro into nev
big guns and emplacements for th<
seacoast defenses of the canal.
Funds for National Guard.
In round figures, an additions
$13,000,000 will be spent for the train
Ins and equipment of the Nationa
Guard, and $10,000,000 more than th<
1917 appropriations for reserve store;
of ammunition, guns, rifles and fleld ar
tillery. A million additional is aske<
for armored motor cars, $1,500,000 addi
tional for civilian training camps an<
$5,000,000 in new items for the Reserv*
Officers* Training Corps. Authority t<
make contracts totaling many million
in addition to the purchases actuall;
made also is asked, following t h<
(Continued on Twelfth Page.)
y.
i
?n account c
Thc Rush c
business
The Usual Holid
May be omittei
f APPRoPK(fyhoN^
1 TO COLLECT COINS ;
;| FOR D. C. SOLDIERS I
. I i
? - - a
o
.Women Appoint Committees]."
! for Christmas Fund "Dime *
Day" Tomorrow. ?
i f
:! STANDS IN THE BIG STORES f
' I IE
-I > *
i Every person in Washington who T
: wishes to make a smalt coin contribu- ^
; tion toward the fund raised to make f'
Christmas merry for the 1.500 national I
guardsmen from the District now sta- ^
| ; tioned on the border, will be given an ! .
i opportunity tomorrow.
The Women's Relief Association, X. j
; G. D. C., have organised a 'Dime day":
collection with the co-op*-rati on of aj
'j number of the largest business houses!
I in the city. Committees from the re- .
! lief association will have stands in ; ^
'about a dozen stores where small donai
lions may be made, and boxes with J
i cards calling attention to the subscrip- j
tion for the District soldiers are to be j
placed in a number of other stores.
Under the leadership of Mrs. William E. I
t Harvey, wife of Brig. Gen. Harvey, com- j
1 manding the District of Columbia mi- j ^
" litia; Mrs. Glendie B. Young, wife of ! IJ
3 CoL Young, commanding the 3d District j h
of Columbia Infantry, now at San An
tonio, Tex., and Mrs. Thacker V. Walker, j
wife of Maj. Walker, ordnance officer. J *
i X. G. D. C.. these committees are being ' v
. organized today and will be on duty early ; ;
' <! ft. ?i nvu.il a tHi.t 1 1
5 the remembrance of the soldiers on the !
i border may be representative of the feel-| r
ins: of all the people of the District of!
Columbia. For this reason they are anx-?
ious to have a large number of small con- j v
trihutions. so that every family in the J r
. National Capital may have a part in this i /
remembrance of the District soldiers.
j J
Merchants Glad to Help. j e
Indorsed by the three trade organi- i d
? zations of Washington, these women ' t
have found the merchants of the city i a
| eager to assist them in every way pos- a
[ j sible in making this big popular sub- j c
. scription. Among those who have vol- 't
, unteered to supply stands in their ' c
; stores, at which the committees from j v
J the relief association will make the | c
I collections, are the following: J 1;
Goldenberg's, whose manager, Mr. |
1 Dobrin. said: "We will be very glad to | c
have the women make a collection in t \
" our store. It is a worthy cause, arid n
i we appreciate the opportunity to assist
- in this work." 1
; Palais Royal, where A. Lisner, the t
proprietor, said: "These women are do- v
1 ing a great patriotic work, and we con
sider it a pleasure and privilege to do f
? all in our power to assist them." s
Lansburgh & Bro.. through Henry j o
^ Ransburgh, offered the use of a stand j
in the center of their store. Mr. Lans- \ t
t burgh heartily indorsed the effort, say- ! t
- ing that he believed all their patrons I p
. would appreciate the chance to do a lit- c
lie to express their patriotic apprecla- p
a tion of what the District men are sac- r
-i/i ??? thi. Krtrdor
j rin'-ui8 ? - - j
Saks & Co.. through Isaac Gans, man- .
' ager. said: "It Is a very good idea to
!! help cheer up at Christmas time our
i boys who are on the border doing their
country's duty. It is a fine thing to
3 show them that they are not forgotten i
at home. The collections should be *]
' large, and each person should give a
a little."
Parker, Bridget & Co., through Manager
Shumate, enthusiastically arranged
for a collection station in that d
. store. Mr. Shumate gave a strong r
indorsement of the collection and ex- a
" pressed a zeal to help in every way 8
1 that he could. t
e t
g Wants to See Large Collection. f
S. Kann, Sons & Co. welcomed the a
1 Women's Relief Association committee, f
- Manager Balderson said: "Of course, [
* we will be glad to have as large a col- c
9 lection aa you can in our etore. It is a
worthy object for the people of Wash- J
r lngton to remember their boys who j
2 are doing miitlary duty, and as many t
of th? have never been away from c
STEAMTNG UP.
ome at Christmas before this popular
ontributlon will express to them in (
he best way possible that their selfacriflce
is recognized and remembered
y the people at home."
G. G. Cornwell & Son contributed
pace near their entrance for a colleclon
station. Manager Marsh said: "We
re only too giad to have the women
i-ith us .md we bone that their col
lection in our store will be a large
rldition to the general fund. The boys
n the border deserve anything that
re can send them.'"
yjjjg-'s \y\n.^ .hn?,,h Manager King,
oTlfled fne "women's committee that
ny conveniences in their store t?H'j
e at the disposal of the committee tolorrow
and on any other clays that
he committee cares to continue the
tation at King's Palace.
Among the women who will assist in
inking the collections are Mrs. Will
'hase, Miss Ruth Corby, Miss Helen
)riscoll. Miss Erma Ernmeri?h, Miss
tetty Graft, Miss Helen Sheriff, Miss
Iarion Grey. Miss Smiths.on, Miss
Tadeline Smithson. Miss Stephan. Miss
lelen King, Mrs. Rhees, Mrs. Brown,
Irs. Bogan. Miss Moran, Mrs. Bobbins
nd Mrs. Hodges.
jupremecIrtasked
to hurry 8-hour test
Appeal to Expedite Case Determining
Constitutionality of Adamson
Act Made Today.
The Supreme Court of the United
itates was formally asked today to exiedite
hearing of the Missouri, Okla- 1
oma and Gulf railroad case, chosen
o determine constitutionality of the
tdamson act passed in September,
rhen a nation-wide railroad strike was
mminenl.
A motion, concurred in by the railoads.
to set the case "for hearing upon j
, day as early as may suit the c??nenience
of the court," was presented <
lersonallv in open court by Solicitor 1
rgneral Davis of the Department of
uetice. Such motions usually are act- !
d on a week after presentation. The j
ate of December IS was understood to !
ie preferred by all counsel, to enable |
.dequate preparation for arguments
rid filing of briefs. It was believed
ertain that the court would assign
he arguments before the holiday reess
December 22. it was regarded as
ossible but very unlikely that a de- !
ision would be rendered before the |
aw becomes effective January 1.
The railroad interests in the proeedings
today were represented by !
VaiKer D. Hines of New York, chair- j
nan of the railroads' committee of at- '
orneys, and Arthur Miller, counsel for i
he Missouri, Oklahoma and Gulf. It ]
vas announced that in arguments heore
tne court John G. Johnson, counel
for the Reading, I.ehigh Valley and !
ther railroad interests, would assist, i
No decision was given upon the moion.
Chief Justice White announced
hat the court would receive the papers
in the usual formal way. The
ourt's action upon the motion is exerted
not later than next Monday,
tailroad counsel did not take any acive
part in the presentation of the moion,
though present
BEDUCING THE FINAL MEALS.
Test of Living Cost in Chicago Nearing
the End.
CHICAGO. December 4.?With but one
iay more of the Chicago health departnent's
attempt to demonstrate that
;ood living: is possible at a cost of less
han 40 cents a day, efforts were made
oday to reduce further the price of the
Inal meals. lr?r the first time during
he two-week test, oleomargarine was
erved instead of butter. Cornmeal
nush was the backbone of the breakast
menu, while beef stew and veal
oaf, respectively, held similar places
>n the luncheon and dinner cards.
Compilation of weights and expenditures
will be made tomorrow night at
he end of. the test, and the cost per
teraon per day averaged. The cost at
he end of the first week was 3S a-3
:ents. J[
%, '
NEW GREEK POLICY
BY ENTENTE ALLIES
Immediate Steps to Be Taken
to Bring About Radical
Solution.
j LONDON, December 4. 3:07 p.m.?In
i the house of commons today Lord Rob|
ert Cecil, war trade minister, said the
| British government considered King
j Constantine and his government to
: have been involved in the events at j
J Athens, and that the British govern- j
| meiit, in conjunction with its allies, |
i would take immediate steps to bring
i about a radical solution of the ques- j
! tion which had arisen.
Order Restored at Athens.
' Order has been restored in Athens, |
i and all civilians and soldiers off duty ;
are being disarmed, according to a
; semi-official statement issued at Athens'
j yesterday afternoon.
The Greek government has announced
! that the fullest protection will be given
I to the nationals of the entente, aecord|
ing to an Athens dispatch to Reuter's.
j The government also guarantees that
j all legal rights of the arrested Vonii
zelists will be respected. In palace
| circles it is said that normal relations
I with the allies are re-established.
! The Greek minister at London and the
| consuls at Lonaoii and Manchester have
| resigned, stating that they were unable
: further to identify themselves with the
j policy of King Constantine.
To Demand Full Reparation.
j PARIS, December 4.?The entente
| troops have been sent bacfc from
1 Athens to Piraeus. The Greek govern
I uit-Mi nan six mountain oatteries
to Vice Admiral Du Fournet, but
[ the entente ministers have received
instructions from their governments to
declare to the Greek authorities that if
is no longer merely a question of the
I cession of war materials, but a far
more serious question, and that reparation
must be 'made corresponding with
the gravity of the assault on the allied
troops.
An embargo has been placed on all
Greek shipping in French and other
ports of tne entente allies in consequence
of the recent events in Athens.
The Matin states that Athos Romanos,
Greek minister to France, has sent his
resignation to his government on account
of the aggression of Greek troops
against the forces disembarked by the
allies.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
House.
Met at noon.
Representative Kitehin, Fitzgerald
and Mann were appointed
committee to await on President
Wilson with Seriate committee.
Representative Fitzgerald introduced
four bills, two proposing
fbodstuffs embargoes, one to regu
iaie uuunjwi wuuii ui cuiu siuraKe
foods and another to regulate admission
of farm products and manufactured
foodstuffs to parcel post.
Recessed at 12:56 p.m., until 3
p.m.
Senate.
Met at noon.
Senators Kern and Gallinger
appointed to join a House coincommittee
to wait on the President.
Recessed at 12:12 p.m. until 3
p.m., when Senators-elect Watson,
Indiana; Fernald, Missouri, and
Kirby. Arkansas, will be sworn in,
and adjournment taken in memory
of the late Senator Clarke of Arkansas.
TEUTONIC INVADERS!
NEARER BUCHAREST
Capture Gradichtea, Twelve
Miles From Rumanian Capital,
Petrograd Reports.
RUSSIAN ARMY IN BATTLE
I I
9
By the Associated Press.
PETROGRAD, December 4, via London.
1:55 p.m.?The war office announces
that the Teutonic forces have
occupied the village of Gradichtea,
south of Bucharest. Obstinate fighting
is proceeding between Alexandria and
Bucharest. Gradichtea is twelve miles
south of Bucharest.
Russian troops have arrived on the
front south of Bucharest and engaged
in the gr?at battle to save the Rumanian
capital. The Russians and Ruj
manians have taken prisoners and
nooty, including twenty-six guns. Further
successes for the Russians on the
Transylvanian front also are reported.
I Rumanian Advance Admitted.
BERLIN, December 4, by wireless to
Sayville.?The announcement from
! army headquarters last evening said
the Rumanians have made a successful
advance on the Argechu river on
! the front before Bucharest.
SOFIA, December 3, via London, December
4.?Desperate fighting on the
Rumanian front, in which the Bulgariins
repulsed seven attacks made by
the Russians, is reported in the official
statement issued by the war office today.
Two tanks are said to have been
destroyed and a third to have fallen
into the hands of Turkish troops.
AMSTERDAM, via London, December
1.?A Berlin telegram says that it is
officially announced that the battle on
the Argechu river, northwest of Bucharest.
has been won by the 9th Army.
The emperor personally ordered that
the church bells in Prussia and AlsaceLorraine
be rung Monday In celebration
of this victory.
Still Critical for Rumania. ji
The situation in Rumania, still th
chief center of military interest, does
not appear markedly less critical for j
the Rumanians, despite the reported |
successes of the Russo-Rumanlan of- j
fensive southwest of Bucharest in j
j holding back, temporarily, at least, j
| Field Marshal von Mackensen's invad- j
i ing forces.
Bucharest and the armies defending
j it continue under serious threat, not
'inly from the forces on the southwest.
! but also from those along the line of
the Argechu. stretching northwestward
to Piteshti. and from Gen. von
Falkenhayn's armies pressing southward
from the mountain passes, on the
line turning abruptly at Piteshti and
extending northeastward, north of the
Rumanian capital.
The force of the converging attack
thus being pressed from three sides of
Bucharest does not appear to have
diminished, but the resisting powers
of the Rumanians reinforced by Russian
troops seem to have strengthened
somewhat. Upon their success in preventing
further important breaks in
the defensive line apparently depends j
not only the safety of Bucharest, but J
of the main Rumanian armies engaged j
within the angle of the Teutonic thrust. |
Enormous Booty Is Captured
by Armies Invading Rumania, J
Says Statement From Berlin
I
R.r the Associated Press.
BERLIN, December 4, via wireless to i
Tuekerton. N. J.?The operations on '
the Wallachian plain, in the mountain I
districts and on the Danube, says the j
Overseas News Agency, were carried |
out by the Teutonic allies with such i
rapidity that it has been impossible to .
estimate the booty secured. A greater j
part of the crop of Indian corn fell j
into the hands of the invaders. In addition.
enormous stocks of corn are deposited
in sheds, railroad stations and
mills and aboard tugboats. It appears
that the Rumanians were unable to
transport the crop of Wallachia to
Braila and Galatz.
The petroleum stocks captured were
enormous. Many of the station yards
are filled with tank cars Great quantities
of leather, meats and salt were
captured. Only an insignificant part
of the cattle could be carried off by
the Rumanians.
Cannon Thrown Into Gorges.
In the mountain valleys and on the
slopes, the Overseas Agency continues,
great herds of cattle were encountered.
Thousands and thousands of vehicles
drawn by oxen have been brought in,
and also much war material.
The cannon and ammunition carts ,
captured have not been counted up to
the present. The retreating Rumanians
at many places threw their cannon into
gorges or hid them in the woods. It
will require months to ascertain the
entire amount of booty left behind.
The cannon now are thundering
soutn and southeast of Bucharest before
the fortress ring, while from the ,
southwest, west and northwest victorious
German, Austro - Hungarian,
Bulgarian and Turkish troops are advancing
in Wallachia. driving before
them, in spite of isolated tenacious .
resistance, the fragments of the beaten
Rumanian army. Prisoners report in- '
creasing demoralization among the Ru- j
manian troops. 1
Refugees Crowd Bucharest.
"Bucharest is crowded with refugees,"
the news agency concludes. "Our fliers
ronort that all the roads from Bu
charest eastward are crowded with
fleeing peasants and their carts, the
line reaching to Bucan and Braila.
Meanwhile the Russian offensive continues
with great violence in the wooded
Carpathians and on the Transylvania
frontier mountains.
"The Russians are again engaging
men and ammunition on a scale that
is surprising, even considering Russian
methods."
Conservation
of Paper '
Every citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages v
be dispensed with. ?
If you have no further use for to- *
day's newspaper save it for the (
school children's playground fund. t
Call Main 036 and ask for tha ?
nearest public school to your homo *
and the old papers will be sent for. 1
f !
BRITISH MINISTRY
TO BE SHAKEN UP;
ITS FALL AVERTED
Asquith Yields to Lloyd
George's Demand for a
Small War Council.
KING GIVES HIS CONSENT
TO THE RECONSTRUCTION
No Change in War Policy It In?
volved. Prime Minister Tells the
House of Commons.
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, December 4, 4:10
p.m.?Premier Asquith announced
in the house of commons this afternoon
that King George had approved
of a reconstruction of the
government. Mr. Asquith suggested
that after today's business
had been concluded the house adjourn
until Thursday.
Premier Asquith stated that
the reconstruction of the government
involved no departure in any
shape or form from the policy pursued
since the beginning of the
war.
He did not deny that the resignations
of all the ministers were
in his hands.
Saves Coalition Government.
LONDON, December 4, 11.32 a.m.?
The decision of Premier Asquith, on
the advice of the war secretary, Davkl
Lloyd George, which is supported by
other members of the ministry, to reconstruct
the cabinet, is believed to j
have saved the coalition government
again and insured more vigorqus prosecution
of the war. '
There are some details yet to be arranged.
but newspapers which hays
been the most severe critics of the
government's alleged dilatory attitude
express the conviction that the premier
will" be able to announce before
many hours an agreement with hie colleagues
on the vital question concerning
the war council, the formation and
size of which led to the crisis.
Size of Council Uncertain.
Whether the council will be composod
of three, four or five members is still
a matter of discussion, while its powers
also are the subject of negotiations.
Mr. Lloyd George and his adherents dOsire
the smallest possible council, with
power to conduct the war independently
of the cabinet.
Monday, which usually is a quiet day
in the house of commons, promises interesting
developments, in anticipation
of which the members returned to tow?
at an early hour.
Many Sunday Conferences.
Premier Asquith left town Saturday,
but returned yesterday morning, and
throughout the day there were consultations
and meetings of party leaders
at the premier's residence.
Mr. Lloyd George had a long consultation
with the twemier in the afternoon.
Other visitors were A. Bonar
Ikw. secretary of the colonies, and the
Marquis of Crewe, lord president of
me cuuncji.
Perhaps the most important significance
was Sir Edward Carson and Mr.
Law anpeared together and addressed
a morning meeting of the unionist committee.
while the Earl of Derby, under- .
secretary of war. had a long interview
with Mr. Lloyd George.
Reconstruction Is Announced. *
That Premier Asquith had decided to
advise the king to consent to the reconstruction
of the government was
announced last night in the following
statement:
"The prime minister.with a view to
the most effective prosecution of the
war. has decided to advise his majesty
the king, to consent to the reconstruction
of the government."
The Daily News correspondent understands
that although the possibility of ^
adding Sir Edward Carson to the cabi- S
net has been canvassed in inner j)o)>tt?ral
circles, he has received no direct
invitation to serve with the ministry.
According to the information of other
political correspondents. Sir Edward's
inclusion is part of a definite scheme
of Lloyd George's conception. The
Times believes that Premier Asquith
will not be a member of the war council.
which, it says, would, if. in accordance
with Lloyd George's suggestion.
consist of Lloyd George. Sir Edward
Carson, Bonar Law and a labor
representative, possibly Arthur Henderson,
now minister of pensions.
Says Crisis Was Ended.
The Express, which is well informed
from the conservative side, says the ?
crisis was settled yesterday and that
the cabinet, which remains intact with
twenty-three members, will probably
jrrdergo a certain process of reorgani?- ?
~.:.u vlaur nf n more definite
cation wim i.vt, _ _
control of the war by a stronger war
council.
On the other hand, the Post, which
llso has intimate conservative connections,
states that at a meeting of
jnionist members of the cabinet yes?
terday it was decided to send a letter
lo Premier Asquith advising him to
resign, and adding that if he did not
lo so they would surrender their portfolios.
This statement is unconfirmed,
ind the Times says that the talk of
-esignations is premature; that there
nnnp JIS vet. but there will be
some if the long-deferred Issue is not
settled with wisdom and resolution.
Editorially, the Times says there are
?ood reasons for hoping: that there are
orces at work which will carry
hrough the necessary reform without
m interregnum or delay.
Killed by Fall From Train.
DEL RIO, Tex., December 4.?A man.
>elieved today, from papers found in
ds pockets, to be Boyce N. Wescott. M
Church street. New York city, fell from
he platform of a fast passenger train. -
wenty miles from here yesterday and
vas killed1. He boarded the train at
few Orleans, and said he waa rolnf te
California for his health, J
