UBiniiumguHiniptfii
FINANCIAL EDITION
. ftTRA'rw
NIGHT
EXTRA
night
extra
itue
y: J
VOL. III. NO. 70
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 101G
CortiMitr, lDlft, t tur. I'cmio I.imii CourtMt
PRICE ONE CENT
tiinn
F6 ffis ,
frJ&SSSiSTViFi
'ANGEL' BALKED
BY FIREMEN IN
RISK PROFFER
Chief Murphy Reveals
Offer Made by.
Col. Whiteley
QUICK NEWS
iH.
sr
r.n.
lit'
Up
&
IDENTITY OF COPS'
SANTA 'TO BE SHOWN
Commissioner 0'vNcil and
Col. Whitely, Who Managed
Deal, to Discuss Secret
MAY BE AGENT HIMSELF
Meeting Will Tnke Plncc Stone's
Throw From Pension Mu
tual Offices
Colonel Stih Whiteley linn promised
i- ii tnaitrnnrn Commissioner O'Ncll who
&? i. 'iti "unknown nhlhtntliroplst" In the
oollce Insurance scheme. They nro to meet
this nflernoon.
And now, "tut prior to thnt meeting,
along comes Flro Chief William II. Murphy
with tho statement thnt nono other than
this name Colonel Whiteley made a "philan
thropic" proposition to the Firemen' Re
lief Association n year ngo.
It was to ho worked nlons tho lines that
have connected the Tollce tleneflclary As
sociation with tho Pension Mutual I.lfo In
surance Company, ot which Lyndon I).
Wood Is president and which Is under tiro
from the Insuranco Department for other
reasons than tho police Insurance business.
The reason the public It not talking now
about tho "firemen's Insuranco scandal,"
as It Is of tho "pollco Insuranco scandal,"
I because the firemen shied away from th6
proposition shied awny even nfler their
board ot directors had recommended It.
But they nil voted on It nnd turned down
the proposition.
Thero were then 14B0 firemen In tho Rc
llct Association, nbout 1000 of them being
active firemen. Kvery time n fireman died
they all went down in their pockets and
due up $1. This "philanthropic" plan of
Colonel Whlleley. as Chief Murphy told
It, was to have them pay $3 n month re
gardless of denths, and eory time thero
was a death tho widow or dependents would
get a dollar for every man In tho associa
tion fconv tho death claim -of. 11500,- and
the balanco would to to the association.
FIREMKN BALKRD
But It did not "look (rood" to tho flro-
L,men they said they wanted a run for
their money, with no ono else making any-
i'y thing out of It, nnd they kept the old
yatem, although figures show that the
deaths averaged thirty-eight annually.
Hiram Hortcr, Jr., treasurer of the I'ollce
Beneficiary Association, was asked today
why the policemen had not been given n
chance to vote on the "philanthropy" prop
osition as had tho firemen nnd he answered
that the board of directors, having voted
unanimously in favor of Colonel Whlteley's
scheme, t had not been thought necessary
to get any further permission. Mr. Ilorter
admitted Unit most policemen did not know
they were Insured In the Pncslon Mutual
Life Insuranco Company.
"Out why ask all theso questions," lie
complained; "we've done nothing criminal."
The firemen's story will-hardly figure In
today's conference. The talk between the
Insurance Commissioner nnd the Insurance
agent will hao to do principally with the
police business and tho "philanthropist."
Colonel Whiteley Is fully' aware of the
Identity of the philanthropist and has prom
lied to Impart the secret to the Commis
sioner. There Is u very broad belief that
the philanthropist Is nono other than Colo
nel Whiteley himself.
The conference between him and Mr.
O'Nell Is scheduled for 4:30 p. m., and the
place will be the State Insurance Kxnml-
ners' oince In the Commercial Trust
Building, The ofltcea are on the eighth
floor, within a stone's throw ot Mr, .Wood's
offices, which are on the eighth floor of the
Finance liulldlng, across the square.
It ought to be explained that when all
the facts are known the public will learn
that he "philanthropist," whoever he may
be. hasn't be.en losing anything by his good
ness. Somebody has been making lots of
money by insuring all the members of the
Police Beneficiary Association with the
-f Pension Mutual Life Insuranco Company,
j muuin mo policemen Knew u not.
"SANTA'S" SYSTEM
True enough, whena policeman died the
association got J100, and that Is where the
'. "Dhllanthronv" tnnipx In PimmiiNfmi.,
O'K'ell will probably satisfy himself that II
" Was Worth thft nmn.v in Ihm. wtiA
'thought It out
What he also wants to learn Is where the
policyholders and stockholders ofefthe Pen-
piion Mutual Life Insurance Company "get
r, erf. IVlth the tremendous commissions that
Were being nald for business, ha i n hi
PJ curious to know how those who put their
i ' '" wiujwny. Knowing tney were
- a i.ivri, are juea now.
THE WEATHER
'--
FORBCfav
for PhUatlelnhla and itlrh.n,, --
9Hl cloudy tonight and Tuesday, icith
jrooooiy tome Hunt rain; warmer tonight,
rWtth loUM&t iemnarniniti, nln,, Kn j
irvrtct; gentle tomhirlv tcinds.
I.KNOTII OF PAX
l JJp. m. I aea seutbs 8.19 p. S
UKL.tW.iltK UlVKB TIDE CHANGES
. 2f Ir -! lHK w p. m.
Hl'EH.Vf UHK AT UlCIi llOIlB
"rt Vrrii'r ."-SV mim . . .
I1Ti
. f 1VI .11 121 1
4 GIANT LINERS
TO BE BUILT AT
CAMDENPLANT
Largest Vessels Under
U. S. Flag Will Be
Constructed
MEANS QREAT BOOM
FOR SHIPPING TRADE
Craft of 35,000 Tons to Help
Restore American Sea
Supremacy
PLANS IN A FEW WEEKS
Step Toward 'Making Philadel
phia and Vicinity the World's
Greatest Shipbuilding Center
Four gigantic 35.000 ton transatlantic
linen nre to be built at tho plant ot the
Now York Shipbuilding Company. In Cam
den, purchased recently by tho American
International Corporation, of Now Yorlt.
Tho ship will bo the lnrgct oer built
for serUco under tho American Hag Their
construction will gle employment to thou
sands of men, for sernl years and prob
ably will menn tho biggest shipping boom
in tho history of Philadelphia
Announcement nf the project to build tho
ships vvnn made today by I. A. H Frnnklln,
president of tho International Mercantile
Mnrlno Company, which Includes tho Amor
lean and Whlto Stnr Lines, nnd It as
sociated with tho American International
Corporation, which purchased the New York
Shipbuilding plant.
Tho building of the American ships In
this port will help to uiakn true tho pre
diction made by .Samuel M Knot, president
of the Now York Shipbuilding Company,
that Philadelphia will become the greatest
shipbuilding center In the world
Mr. Frnnklln'H announcement Is regarded
by shipping men n ot the utmost im
portance. will iiavi: TimuiNn engines
The ships will bo' built for the purposo
of rejuvenating tho American Line, Mr.
Franklin explained. They will bo tho same
type n h tho Mnuretanla. with turblno en
gines, nnd average speed of twenty-Ilia
knots and every other modern Improve
ment suggested by recent experience.
' Complcto pluns, It was said, "would bo
announced within the next few weeks, Mr.
Franklin arrived Ui New Yoik from Eng
land yesterday. Ills trip to this country,
he explained, was Bolely for tho purposo of
going Into i)ctnlls relative to flio building
of the American ships.
The announcement relative to the ships
to bo built here was made by Mr. Franklin
whllo discussing tho recent purchase of tho
Camden plant.
"1 do not think that there will bo nny
changes In tho company's olllce," said Mr.
Franklin, "but I will tell you this:
"The company la ready now to build fast
big passenger ships under the American"
flag.
"Plana for great liners hae been dis
cussed, and when the American Govern
ment Is ready to make proper arrangements
with us that nre fair nnd proper we will,
and are anxious to, rejuvenate tho Ameri
can Lino by building fast, big ships com
mensurate with the trade.
IDEAL SITUATION OF PLANT
Mr Franklin Is a director of the Ameri
can International Corporation. He said the
plant of the New York Shipbuilding Com-
Continued on l'sce M Column Mi
PARCEL POST URGED
AS AID IN FOOD WAR
Postofce Department Offers
Plan to Help Housewife
Reduce Prices
WASHINGTON. I6- The Postofflco
Department believes Mrs. United States
Housewife herself, con crack high food
prices. If not actually smash them. The
department today Issued an appeal to every
housewife In the nation to give Its Idea a
real trial. '
Parcel post Is the answer.
The department Will conduct a little
propaganda of Its own to start every one
toward a permanent producerH-to-eonsunior-by-porcel-poMt
system Here's the way the
department will do It, as outlined toduy:
Early this week Instructions will be
sent out to more than 10,000 post
masters In every section of the coun
try directing them to list all farmers
In their Immediate dUlrlcts who are
willing to ship produce and dairy prod
ucts direct to consumers by parcel post.
Lists of therfe farmers will be pub
lished for ,the guidance pf any con
bifcners who wish to make use of them.
The lists may be had for tho asking.
postmasters. In addition, will be lij.
rtructed formally to bring the plan to
the attention of all housewives leagues,
civic organisations and Individuals In
their communities.
gents of the Department of Agrl.
oulturo will go direct tp the farmers,
with practloal hints for development
of the plan.
First Assistant Poetmaster General
lfoons J I" of the ,de- '
"We, believe it to be a real practical so
lution f "e high et of living, and we
are going to put It within reach of every
one," h Mid
Berks County Gives $5000 for BlginH
MKADINO. Pa. Dec- i Berks Owunty
ha. contribute mce than f MM durt the
last six months for relief of the Belgians,
ri,:.T. hut. has been fiandusUg.
WBT " Lav amock itti WloSSi&rf
B jft . jut JBsPfJj i Itf'QgtPHgggKMsiMI
Pilsslliw iiJ!B&g9
liliS
LEAD CABINET SHAKE-UP
Premior Asquith (below), Head of
(ircat Britain's "coalition" Cnbinct,
i3 working for the reorganization
of the present War Council to bo
headed by Minister of Munitions
Lloyd George (nt the top). Asquitli
will leave himself out of the pro
posed body, thus reaching n com
Jiromiso with Lloyd George, who
ins lod tho violent nttacka against
tho Primo Minister and in behalf
nf,,n "more efflclont-nnd mortf'
i ' strenuous conduct of the war."
TEUTONS BEGIN
MBARDMENT
UCBAREST
Shell Rumanian Capital at
Range of Eleven Miles.
Win on Arjeshu
RUSSIANS DRIVEN BACK
C0PR.N'IIA(1I:N. Pee. 4.
rArmnn nrtlllerv hits nlrendv beirtln bom-
barilment of Bucharest from a range at
eleven miles, the newspaper National
Tldende declared In a dispatch from Berlin
today.
The dispatch asserts tho Herman guns
opened their lire on tl Itumnnlan capital
Sunday.
pirrnooitAi). nee. .
Retirement of Itumnnlan forces south
of Bucharest, In the fact of re-enforced nt
tacks by the Teutonic forces, vyas announced
In today's War Office statement.
Between AlexnndrU and Bucharest nnd
also to the south, the statement said, the
enemy, who had been put on the defensive
by attacks from the Allied forces, was re
enforced and attacked Oradlchten, later
occupying that city.
The Rumanians, who had been attacking
the rear of this force, ero themselves at
tacked and retired.
LONDON, Dec. i.
It Is officially announced in Berlin that
the ninth Austro-Uerman nrnly has won
a decisive victory over tho Rumanians along
the Arjeshu River, between Pletescl and
Bucharest, says a dispitch from tho Ger
man capital! via Amsterdam, today. The
Kaiser has ordered the church bells In
Prussia and Alsuce-Irrulne rung in cele.
bratlon of tbe victory.
BKRHN-TVc. 4.
The arrival of Russian re-epforeements
Continued en l'uio Pour, Column Two
GERARD BEARS PEACE
PROPOSALS, IS REPORT
N 1
Plan, Agreed Upon by U. S. and
Britain, En Route to Berlin,
Says Dispqtch
LONDON', Dec- - The United States Is
ag'aln mentioned in connection with peace
proposals n tha following dispatch to tho
Morning Post from Amsterdam ttoday:
"Count Reventtow asserts In the Tages
zeltunff. ot Berlin, that United States Am
bassador Gerard in returning to Berlin
will bave with him a proposal of peace
mediation lyr the Uclted Stajfa-vagd tbe
male iMiats 4 tfec UaU ot' Mjjs. BKnyip'
bjajff uiti-riy tfiB agreed ua SyfVVal
4
BRITISH RULER
APPROVES NEW
CABINET PLAN
a
Asquith Tells Commons
"Reconstruction" of
Ministry Planned
DETAILS OF SCHEME
ARE NOT DISCLOSED
Complete Change in Govern
ment Personnel Expected
in England.
LLOYD GEORGE ABSENT
Precipitator of Criais Away
From Parliament When
Chief Speaks
By KD, I.. KEEN
- LONDON, Dee. I.
I'ngliind Is preparing a "reconstruction"
Premier Asmilih made formal ntinoiittee
inent In the House of Common todnv thnt
King fJeorgo had given his assent to tho
"reconstruction of" the (lovcrnnient. ihlch
a statement yritcrdny h.id nmiounced was
III rnntemplntlon What rnurso thnt "re
construction" will take was tint made clear
hv the Premier Up suKgcitcd yiat nil
question fiom inembers regarding the Cab
inet personnel lip deferred, ami concluded
with thi remiest thnt when tho House ad
journed today it will not meet ngnln until
Thursday.
The announcement In Common followed
n lengthy conference uhteh Asquitli hail
with Hid Kim: toduy nnd nt uhlch It I
assumed the whole plan of reconstruction
VUM dlCllHCd.
Current reports late today were that
the "reconstruction" meant a general change
In tho entire Cabinet inther tiinn the mem
formation nf an authorltatlvo War Council
This -'Hinall, compact bodj" for handling
of the pruhlcniH of the war was tho sug
gestion first udvnnceil by thore known to
bn In sympathy with Dav Id Llovd (leorge.
who, apparently, precipitated the Cabinet
crisis.
The Intense papular Interest In the Cab
inet Situation nan evidenced when Pnrlla
iiuuiiil. fi W.HHTIItVU Wlirn Illlllil-
mfl today a9verninW officials
.,!kWy&&ce n-'"'wto,tX'arllaa
bulirl(ngn packed tho .flofir nndthe
merit mH
fromjt.
ment bu
gnllerles. Tho only inembers ot the Cab
inet, however, who 'were present when tho
session was culled to order wero Austen
Chamberlain, Secretary of India, and Lord
Robert Cecil, Minister for Blockade.
The present War Council consists of Pre
mier Asiiulth, A. J. Balfour. First Lord of
tho Admlrnltv ; Reglnnld McKcnnu, Chan
cellor of the Hxchequer; Viscount (Ircy, the
Foreign Secretary; Walter lUiuclnian, pres
ident of the Hoard of Trn'da: David Lloyd
George. Secretary of Stntp for War. and
A. Bonar Law, Colonial Pecietnry.
Tho now War Council, If the "reconstruc
tion" program Is limited to u reorganization
of tho War Council only, will probably
consist of the following four members:
Mr Lloyd Oeorge, A. Ilonnr lnw, Lord
Curzon nnd Sir ICtlwnnl Carson.
Commons was biter declared adjourned
until Thursday without a vote on tho ad
journment. Irish inembers vainly protested
this courso.
Llovd Cleorge did not put In an appear
nnco In Commons during the entire ses
sion today, lift nbsenco was regarded ns
Indicative that he will not renppcar until
a definite solution of the matter Is ovolved
and announced
SCHOOL-TEACHER ENDS
. HER LIFE IN OCEAN
-
Wades Into Surf at Atlantic
City Beyond Her Depth De
spite Warnings "From Shore
ATLANTIC CITY. Dec I Slipping
away from her mother upon thr pretense
that she was going for a short walk before
breakfust. Miss Maltle Anderson, a. school
teacher of Front Royal, V.. deliberately
drowned herself In the ocean at the head
of Puolllo avenue this morning.
Jnseph II- Wills and John Nicholts, roll-
Ing-chalr pushers, saw the younif woman
fully dressed wade out Into tha water until
It was up to her neck They shouted to
her, but she paid no heed The two men
sprang over the railing ot the boardwalk
and dashed Into the surf to bring the woman
buck, but when they were still loo feet
from her she deliberately forced her head
beneath the surface. A swift tide carried
the body away.
Wills and Anderson notified 'captnJn
Parker, ot the coast guard, who put out
with a volunteer crew and searched for the
body It had beep carried to sea, however,
by the current. The crew returned with a
red felt hat, which was identified as the
property of the young woman by her dis
tracted mother.
Miss Anderson had been brought here to
reoover from a nervous breakdown, due to
overwork. She seemed to have nearly re
covered and was talking about returning
home to her work eterday. Mru. Ander
son reported htr daughter's absence a few
jnlnutea before she received word of her
death.
Firemen Overcome in Shore Blaze
ATI.ANTIC CITY. N J.. Dc- 4-Ssv.ral
(JreiJim wr ovtroorae by soioke thU jucin-
iDir is !b twt uuaiey, reaosyJVjania aj
hvwuh, a Htn iiwianog HStm the
adtoJiOojf Mgiama Iliir Ths
vrtfi M tesea fsy hufidKd dl-
U. S. COURT DEFINES POWER OF JUDGES
WASHINGTON, Dee. !. Sustaining in e'rect Attorney Gcii'inl
Gtcgory's contention thnt po'iulnr demnnit for lecnll ot jtnlgcs Is
title to their usut nation of executtev nnthoiity, In n case ngnlnst l'ott
crstl Judge John M. Klllltz, of Toledo, tho Supreme Couit todny de
nied thnt Federal JudgeB had inhcicnt power Indefinite)' to suspend
ci 'initial sentences. Chief "tistlce White lend the decision,
$15,000,000 SECURITIES COMPANY CHARTERED
DOVnn, Del., Dec. -1. The Nickel lMnCo Securities Coipontlon,
to deal In bonds nnd sccuiltlca, wns Incorporated hcio today with t
cnp'.tnl or lO'.OOO.OO;. The lneoipointois nto Clement M. Ungci,
Elktou, Md., nnd Normnu I'. Coffin, Hcl licit V. Latter, Wilmington.
. CAM, MONEY AT FIFTEEN PER CENT IN WALL STREET
N'liW YOItK, Dee. I. Cull itmnoy mlvuncnl to fifteen per cent In Wall nttert
IhN nflernoon. This vvn-4 duo to tho lienvy rnlllni; nf tonnn by bank, cnusliig
borrow cm to neck iiccoiiunodntlotm In other quartern. Tho ilny Htnrted with Jiinncy
nt W per cent, but when tho demand Increased .tlio iinitntlon ndvnnt'ed Ulckly.
Tho hlRh tiioncy into was lotpnnslhlo for Kvneral hclllnir nnd tho nmrkot liccatnn
wilt nflcr Kiilni liml been scoroil In the inoinltif; scishm.
H. AND O. IN SOUTH AMERICAN DEAL -
UAI.TIMOIU-. Dec -I -Tlu ll.iltlmnre uiul Ohio Itnlliouil Compniiy linn olllclnlly
nnmmnced Hint It Is nrraiiKliiR with South Ainerlciin caultnllstH for tho eslubllsh
went of n Hteniiixlilp line, with a capital nf ttn.000.000. to ply between this city nnd
South American ports.
U. S. COURT URIIOLDS ICE CREAM LAWS
WASHINGTON. l)n I. Tho Suprrtup Court today held coiiHtltitllonnl tho
Ico croiuii l.iws of Iovvn nnd IVitnxylvntila. 'Vhc decision in effect uphold Ico cream
laws of tieiulv every Sluto In the country, prescribing tho pcrconlnKo of butter fnt
to ho used in tho Ice crcmn. The Pennsylvania law icqiilu-s el;ht per cent of liuttcr
fnt In milk used In the manufacture of Ice cretin. Tho laws of other States require
a higher percentage. The light against tho law was liinde by A. It. Crowl. ico
cream iimniifncluter. The deehloii, In addition to upholding tho pure Ico cream
law. upholds tint ilht of States to hnvo puro food laws.
BETHLEHEM STEEL GIVES TEN PER CENT INCREASE
UKTIILnill'M. I'u.. Utc I -Tim Ilotlilflhom Steel Company today announced a
ten per cent increase In wages for all lis employes, numborliii; 3 1,001), to hecomu
effective December IG.
RRITISII TREASURY NOTE ISSUE WITHDRAWN
LONDON. Dec. A. Withdrawal of the proposed Issuo of Ilrltlsh Treasury notes
vvus announced In Commons today by Chancellor of tho Kxechequer RuRimild Mc
Kennn. McKenmi oxplnlncil Hie Issuo Orlglunlly iiroposed to be tlunteit through tho
American banking hcapm' of .1. P. Morgan & Co. had been withheld us a result of
tho American I'cdernl Itaii'ivo Uoanl's tecent caution to Amerlcun Imnlts not to
."'jerglflfik In such securities. (Announcement that Marjo'ij-,,.fcjqo;'hal. withdrawn
t'lcir' lender of tho HrltlHli'Tioasury notes to American In'vestors and uaittcularly
banking Iiouhqs was innila In Now York l-'ildny. A formal slntement issued by tlio
.Morgan Company asserted tho withdrawn! was on request of the British authorities.)
1
BARON LUCAS, BRITISH AVIATOR, KILLED
LONDON, Dec A. Unron Lucas, of Trudwell, a member of the Ilrltlsh aviation
corps, has been killed dm lag a Might over tho (Jcrmnn lines. It was olllclally
announced today. Huron Lucas was formerly Piirllamcntury Unilor Secretary for
War.
SWEET'S NOMINATION FIRST TO CO TO SENATE
WASHINGTON. Dec. I. Tlio llrst nomination to bo mmU to tho Scnntu today
upon tho opening of Qongress wns that of Kdwin I. Sweet to ho Assistant Secretary
of Commerce. Svveot resigned some months ago to outer tht contest for Governor
ot Michigan aad upon his defeat November T Secretary iteillleld personally recom
mended his lenppolntment.
HUNDREDS REPORTED KILLED IN BRUSSELS RIOTS
LONDON, Dc. I. Hetwecn -00 and 300 Ilclglnus and many Herman solillora
wero killed in rioting In Hrusscls on November 30, according to a Itoutor dispatch
from Amsterdam today. Tho uprising, It wus. said, lesulted from Ilelglun deportn
tlons. Tho Amsterdam conespondent of neuter's based his n-port upon Informa
tion lecelved fiom two Helglun rofngees, who have Just arrived at SlulsMll.
LABOR FEDERATION ACAINST COMPULSORY ARBITRATION
WASHINGTON, Dec. A. The American Federation of Labor today bogan
arrangements to place beforo Congress Immediately a demand that It refuso to
enact legislation for any form of compulsory arbitration. Tho demand will ilcul
specifically with legislation proposed by pic-sldunt Wilson In his railroad strllto
address to Congress In Septembc- advocating meusures to prevent industrial strikes
on Interstate carriers until after a thoioiigh investigation hail been completed by a
Government boaul and Its llnilliigs made public.
JOHN I). ARCHBOLD PASSES COMFORTABLE NIGHT
TAHHYTOWN, N'. Y.. Dec. A. John D. Archbold, Standard Oil magnate, passed
a comfortable night, hut thero Is no material change In his condition, it was said
ot his homo hero today. His condition. iiccoiiIIiik to physicians. Is critical.
WANTS HIS PRESENTS BACK
PROM GIRL OF GOLDEN WEST
Romance Begun in Chinese Restaurant Shifts to Court
' of Venus and Climax Is Reached in Tribunal
of the Law
A talc of th( far and woolly West, with
Us two principal characters a beautiful
hazel-evcd waltrtuis In a Imrdsr "dive" and
un altruistic easterner, who gave hr i50()
in cash JtOO In diamond eurrlngs and a
1500 diamond ring and wants them back
was aired today, whsn Paul W. Albrecht, of
"SJl West Lehigh avsnu, told why ho had
Instltutsd suit In Iaw Angsles to rifcover
tho aboe-namwl property from H"S Una
Halboa. known as the most 'xuutlful wo
man of the Jununta-lMclflo lixiiosltlon
Albrecht, who I bout twent-vei
years old, explained that ho has sud b
cause his sympathy for th girl turn! to
love und they were engaged to ha married.
She failed to kP lr promise, he said, but
at the same time took good care to fall to
return hbi gifts. ,
MUw MadaUlne Balboa, or I.ena, us she
u called for short. t filed an aruwer to
"u suit In J Angelw. and etalm she
never promised K marry him, but hd M
she would try to like, him enough to have
the -knot tied" some day.
That day, Mr Albrecht said today. U far.
"Po you love her still."
No. I thought I did.
he was askedT
that ubout the
size of it." be replied
According to Albrecht'e own story, all
the trouble between the pair started when
1 jna then n waltreea, young, buuxn. and
haiel-eyed, with Iiuurtous hair of cheemut
broa, sbJXted from a. ClUnem to a Jajwa
tw rUarait He. lh wUor. dUltked
"Yea lowrr wbat U Vw (mm are
J
like," Albrecht said. Ills mother objected
to his talking to a r(orter. but the young
man. who evidently had the girl on his
mind, told a story that would have de
lighted the ears of Alfred Henry LeMl-
"It was in Yuma. Arizona, that I first
met Lena." he explained. You know now
tough thoee border towne are, and Yuma
s no exception It was in "913, and at
that time she was about fifteen vears old
and a waitress la a Chinese restaurant or
dive.'
"I had gone Went for my health. I took
u slight In'-erest in real astute there, and
when I saw Lena she was very pretty In
deed she aroused my Interest am sym
puthy The language used In the "dive"
wan shocking and I felt she was tea nice
u girl to be In such a place. I also tok an
Interest in her eople.
"I wanted to get her out of the place,
and when I found out how poor she was,
I offered to help support her in her own
home. I gave her anyway from 8Q to J100
a month. Her father was a laborer, and
her mother, well anyway, I began to take
more than an interest In her and we be
came engaged
The 50Q earnings were a Christmas
present and the ring was the engagement
ring Then came the change from the
Chinese restaurant to the Japanese one. I
did not like the Idea and we quarreled
That's about all these Is to It.
'1 would net have sued," h added. If br
peoyle tad aM UveatMM. mm. I tbiak
FOOD EMBARGO
MOVE GAINS AS
CONGRESS SITS
Fitzgerald Proposes to
Let President Be Vir
tual Dictator
CUT RATE Itf PARCELS
PROPOSED AS REMEDT
Martino Announces He Will
Offer Bill to Put Ban
on Exports
LONDON MOVE RADICAL
Socinlist Rcpreacntntivo Favora
Autocratic Regulation of
Food Supply nnd Sales
WASHINGTON. Dec. 4. Legislative pro.
posnts. Intended to shatter tho high cost
ot living, marked reconvening of Congress
today.
Scnnlor Xlortlne, 'of Now Jersey, an
nounced In the S'cnnto that lie would fight
for a food embargo on all staple articles.
He announced ho would Introduca a resolu
tion Inter this week.
Kurther action In tho Hcnnto was prom
Iced by Senator Lew-Is, nf Illinois. He said
he would IntroUuco n bill to empower tho
Ciovernmcnt to selxo foodstuffs on which.
n "corner" Is attempted, condemn them and
reiell them to the public.'
Representative Fitzgerald, leader ot tho
embargo forces. Introduced four plans, two
calling for food export embargoes nnd
tho other two for regulation of cold-storage
nnd for reduction of parcel post charges
on food.
si:i:s hopi: in planj
. Ill Introducing his bill, PlUgerald said:
"The multiplying evidences of tho wide
spread Interest In the high cort of living
innka me hopeful ot success. The enact
ment of .either of the embargo bills, and,
tho thill to regulatn cold storage and par
cel post will bring Immediate relief to th
country
"Tho pcoplo want notion; they are heart
ily tired of talk nnd Investigation."
1 1 l.i hills In brief urui
No. I For an out-npd-out export
ombargo otu fnrni' -products m manu
factured foodstufTs for ono year
No. 2-Kor the President to suspend
exportation whenever prices become ex
tortionate and the puhllo Interest re-
quires such action.
No. 8 For tegulntlon of cold slgr- "
ngu by prohibiting Interstate shipments
of roods, other than butter, stored
longer than ten months, with distinct,
labeling of tho dnto on which tho goods
wero stored.
No. i Abolition of postnl Jones In
so rar as farm products nnd manu
factured foodstuffs are concerned, ad
mission of such goods to parcels post
In packages up to IBO pounds at threo
cents per first (wund, nnd ono cent for
pound thereafter, with slightly higher
charges.
DxemptloiiH In the embargoes provide for
supplying Aineilcnn diplomats nnd citizens
nluoail as well an famine or war victims.
Dxtreincly high penalties are Imposed for
violations,
llepresentatlvo London, Now York So
cialist, worked on a virtual food dictator
ship measure, though he expressed dislike
for tho term dictator In America.
FOIt nOVl'llN'MI'IS'TATi CONTHOL
"I bclluvo wo should have governmental
control of the food situation," ho "alii "An
embargo Is only an Incidental proposition.
If that will heli lower tho cost nt living.
It sliouni bo introduced, along with a sys
tem of Government control, somewhat slirtl
lar to tho Australian system."
Meantime, Representative Furr, of Penn
svtvanlu, proposed nn embargo on wheat
FAII.M MKSUlL'ItS THRHATHN
Cnugiessinen from Industrial centers fa.
vored thu price-control pluns, Representa
tives of the farming districts walled
nguiiist tho bills aiiX threatened munitions
embargoes ft they aru molested In their
prosperity.
Iloth holmes panned resolutions to notify
President Wilson that they are silting and
reudy for his message tomorrow.
The House convened at 13.01, when
Hpeaker Clark pounded for order, and tha
Henuta got down to business three minutes
later At 13:11 the .Senate recessed until
3 o'clock, meantime upio.ntlng a commit
tee to notify the House It was ready for
business.
Crammed galleries watched proceedings.
In tha Houm Speaker Clark waa cheered
roundly. AXr-the mob-like chatter of the
welcome. home squads had been quelled the
chaplain prayed for "peace within our bor
ders." while-Representatives stood In thelr
places. ' jft
IJAD PINOCHLE TEMPER
HELD DIVOItCE GROUND
Vj Thrown Downstairs for Poof
Playing Gets Quick Decree
and Alimony
Leo T Sbarber. of 108 South Tenth street,
Gloucester, Is a poor loser at pinochle, lily
wife and others testified today beforo
Master In Chancery P V P Jollne When
lie lost at the game, his wife sold, he would
sometimes show that he was disMtlsJtii
with her playlug by throwing her dowi
stairs. On other oecasloos he wo-!- ts
her on the fleer and step in her aaa. -
Bpt pinochle, she said, was not the oilly
thing that accas'oaalty ntttted aim. ottes
she said, his dudgeon would beeoipe ao hlfth.
that to Bt relief he would drag hej up W
down atatre by the hah Between tunes,
she said, he choked and beat her and omt.
coining home at S - m and wanting Ulf
"supper." drew a pistol Seymour Uyer,
neighbor, who aaid he scwetune (ilia
pinochle with Mr antd Mrs. Sbarber, lt
tied that be "wouldn't live ts tae aaao kw
with Sbarber a ulwU "
v jt0&mp?s??Am
.UTOTHor .fgZSGBB i"ry ,
K W W
r
V
t.,tfj
9f -
' l"'.MilSy
"'"
fPf
