I 1 ' V , , t ' f 'V
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy and warmer to-day; probably
' local rains"; to-morrow fair. '
Highest temperature yesterday, 44; lowest, 35.
Detailed weather, mall and murine reports on page U.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
'1
ONE CENT
In Greater New Vnrk, I Klsrwhrra
Jersey fit)1 and Newark. I TWO fKNTS.
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 95.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1916. Copir.'rof, 1916. by the Sun I'rinl(n; nn,l PubllMny AnocMlon.
B A MSQUITH REMOLDS CABINET
CARRANZAARMYjELUSIVE OLIYERlR DSSIAN
Stm.
he
WHITMAN PICKS
5 AS PROBERS
OF UTO COST
governor Appoints Promi
mint 3k'ii to Investigate
Food Prices.
KAISER DEUGHTED
AT "MAN POWER" ACT
CONFESSES TO ON NEW YORK TO MEET THE KING TO-DA Y;4
IN CHIHUAHUA,
Kxpfessp.s Tlinnks to Clumccl
lor von Hollwpfr for Pus
mxe of the Bill.
VILLA IS FLEEING CHICAGO POLICE BOND CONCERN LLOYD GEORGE THE CAUSE
G. W. TEH KINS HEADS
STATE COMMISSION
New Board Will Recom
mend Legislation to Im
prove Conditions.
AUAfT, Dec. J Gov. Whitman an
ounced to-day hla appointment of a
eemmlttee of five, with George W. Ter
kins as chairman, to Investigate the high
test of living and to recommend such
legislation as may result In lower prices
tf food through economical distribution,
Mr. I'erklns's associates on the com
mittee are State Senator Charles W.
Wicks of Oneida county, chairman of
ih. flalAitvA mmmlttM Investigating
the dairy Industry which Is now navingj
talons In New York city: Judge George
W. Ward, counsel of the Wicks commit
tee; 8. J. Lowell, master of the New
York State Grange, and Clifford 8. Sims,
vice-president and general manager of
the Delaware and Hudson Hallroad.
Tor years past," Gov. Whitman said
to-day, "the Increasing cost of living has
keen a subject of growing Importance
and has perhaps become of first Impor
tince to the people of our State. Last
yesr I recommended and secured In
crtsted appropriations for the Depart
nt of Foods and Markets.
Problems for Legislature.
"The Legislature this winter should. It
seems to me. take uo the whole problem
In a broad constructive manner. The j
problem is difficult nnd Intricate. I have I
decided to appoint a committee to assist
the Hxecutlve and the Legislature in in
vestigating and preparing such recom
mendations and legislation as may tend
to bring about a reduction of the cost of
foodstuffs to the consumer through
efficient and economic organization with
tut loss In revenue to the producer.
"Mr. Perkins has given considerable
time during the past two or three years
to a studv of the food problem as It re
lates to New York city and to a consld-
trable extent salready familiar with the
qsestlon. MrTStms Is especially quail- k
tin! to advlae the committee relative to
transportation matters, an 'Important ele
ment In the problem.
Mr. Terklns hts made a study
Tork city's problem of the transporta
t:on nnii distribution of foodstuffs fo
iveral years, chiefly as chairman of
JUor Mltchel's committee on food sup-. cepCr Margaret Wolrott but was not i lx trains entered Chihuahua city to
' " " - , W Sit a,n:,eCrVol
Mr Choveti ,rc r.irrm
... t,..i.. v,.r.l havo
''VllttiUl f i. rvr miu w .......
..... . i.. .. ti.- (.iiauilnH nf ttiA urn.
il'io'ion of milk, butter, cheese and other ,
ammodltles from the farmer's point of'
vlfw. as well aa the subject of trans-
partatlon and distribution. In their legls-1
Istlv Inquiry that started back In July I
n,l h. thus far extended to thirty
to.intlc,
Mr. ilowell Is well equipped to give !
Information as to the farmer's relation
to ,he big problem, ana Mr. m.l..n. j
o: tne nest Known experts on iriwisi'u! to-
fori In the State. Mr. Sims has been ,
Vice-president and general manager of
the Delaware and Hudson since 1907.
Re 1- also vice-president of the ljuepeo.
Montreal and Southern Railway, the Na
P'ervllle Junction Railway, the Green
wich and Johnsor.vlllo Railway, Cham
plaln Transudation Company, Iike
fieorge Steamship Company and Hudson
Valley Railroad Company. He also Is a
dliector of several up-State banks.
Mr. Perkins Snya Hr Will Accept.
tieorge W. Perkins said last night at
his home In Rlverdule: "I'll accept tho
chairmanship and will give my best cf
fens to the tormnlsNlon. Of course I
can say nothing about any iilans until I
n tet my fellow members and we or
ganize, which probably will be In the
Immediate future. Aa we alt know, the
problem Is a big one. The first thing
that all should realize Is that few know
very much about It.'
Later In the night Mr. Perkins said
the I'nlted States is far behind European
countries In guarding the economic lines
of inn rb Bin and thai nnieli will have to
be done In eliminating antiquated nieth-1
'"N of handling food products. He said
Hut California Is far ahead of New York
In he economic progress of marketing
and pointed nut that Cleveland, Ohio, has
adopted modern methods In the handling
of food.
The present food crisis, he added. Is
not ilue entirely to recent conditions, but
ran be attributed largely to tlmo worn
Methods. He said an exhaustive study
of the crisis will be made.
Mr Perkins believed that much wmk
of a basic character has been finished
by the Mayor's Committee on FtFid Sup
Ply In Its studies of the past two years
..! t. - i.. , m i t H.I., .....i. ...til .....!
lie m i uui in u u i nun huiiv wiii Kirutij
aid the State Commission In Its labors,
u,m..,ee and expects a most thorough
"lratlon between that committee anil
tin- Stale Commission
Mr Pei kins said that possibly the up
Flute members of the commission may
not be able to get to New York to-day
o t!m for a meeting, but he Ih sure they
will meet in this city for organization not
later than to-morrow.
Mr. Perkins was appointed by Mayor
Mitcliel In the fall of 1914 an chairman
of the Mayor's committee on food 'sup
Pi) to investigate tha cost of living.
The committee Is still lu existence. A
bill providing for the creation of a city
n.uiKets commission, which was recom
mended by Mr. PerklnH and tho com
mittee, fell by the wayside. at two sue
coslve sessions of the Legislature.
.OOO WOMEN IN . PLAN.
(npUlua on Karh Block Will Ad'
vise lluaaewlvrg on I'rlcrs.
The Women's Movement- to Conserve
tlix Food Supply, which was launched
last week to carry on an educational
campaign throughout the nation. Is
planning what Its promoters hope will
nim nut to be an effective organisation
in New York city with a woman captain
"ii each block, or some 11,000 captains
a an.
It will be the chief duty of .each cap
If in to keep the housewlvea on her block
hi touch with conditions In the food-
tMM ; 1-. .,..4 mM 4.-...-. ii I IBM If t-y' -..r-i.i.,. ,, . ..z ral
Lonpo.v, Dec. 3. A despatch from Am
sterdam to ltcuter's Telegram Company
saya Kmperor Wllljam haa sent the fol
lowing telegram to Dr. von Rethmann
llollweg, the Imperial Chancellor:
"Your report of f 1 passing of the
bill for national civilian service fills me
with great delight. My heartiest thanka are
due for the cooperation of the Imperial
Government and the Reichstag, sus
tained by ii patriotic spirit.
"The German people thus again havo
shown firmly that they are resolved to
endure every sacrifice of blood and
f. .-.aura to labor for the victorious nc-
complement of the defence of the
Fatherland and Its Dower. The neonle.
filled with suh uniform determination.
will, with God's gracious assistance.1
maintain ngalnst everybody Its place
nmong civilized nations of the world.
whirji It gained hy Intelligence, Indus
try and moral strength, and cannot be
conquered. May God reward all our
readiness for sacrifices and grant that
the good' work will lie successful."
quotations for electrolytic copper will
bo Issued regularly In Ilerlln henceforth
by an association organized for this pur
pose. The director of the General Flee
trie Company has been elected manager
of the association.
A'rmr Ran German Ituaila.
Copknii aqen , via London. Dec. 3.
The Hamburger Correspondent, n copy
or wmcn nas hecn received here, con-
"" r on me new uerman
rallway, regulations, which It says are
revolutionary. everything Is subser
vient to -military needs. All travel H
limited to absolutely necessary business
journeys and traffic Is reduced to an
absolute minimum for economic reasons.
According to the Deultehe Courier, the
.llmltutlon of traffic. Is closely connected
with the control of the man power of
Germany.
WHITMAN SAVES
, ....
I I HH 1 IK VI I Hi II W
1 1 1 I I I J1 J X I 1 lllll 1
I
"j'ossHHiiiy, rci'iinps .uoroi
Tli nn n Possibility, That j
He Is Not Guilty."
Albany, Dec. 3. The sentence
Charles F. Stlelow. condemned to die In brief report to Gen. Gonzales, his supe
he .Uririn ..hi i. rnr h. n,r,ier of rlor officer, artd then proceeded Into the
'.. h... .,.., uh.ih n. i
""'- "
"""a mumj, -i"
commuted to life Imprisonment by Gov.,
Whtn,n I
numan.
of Newf l,.T": . , , , . .
.sporta- i MMow wa convicted of the murder of
iffs for'l'helps. a well In do farmer, and wai
ihurged with sluylnir the latter's house,
sustained hy the Court of Appeals and
i:.,v Whitman three limes crantcd him
- - - -. ....... - - -
ti t-nitrls) v 1
On tho strength of a confession of
Krwln King that he and not Mlelow had
killed Phelps Justice Guy granted the
condemned man n stay of execution a
few hours before the time set fur his
deatli In the electric chair, hut an
extrunrdlnary session of the Supreme
Court resulted In a refusal to Interfere.
The Court of Appeals later set the week .
of December 11 as ( the time for execu-
i ." v s i
his confession.
With the announcement of commuta-
ton of sentence ( o v. Whit mail gave a
sta emen. o. nis run or c.rm
o oiner I'riininui i-.ir- w.,ciir i-icin-, .... .-
ency has been asked has perplexed mid ing to the reports by refusees.
distressed me as has this." he said. I -Many of his men were said to have
"I believe that Stlelow Is guilty. Per- , been left behind when the trains left
haps never In the history of New York for the Gueireto district, where Villa
has a man been nfforded greater oppor- and many of his bandit loulers have
tunlty to establish his lnno;ence. If that . made their homes for years. It was re
be possible ported that many of the Vlla followers
"There Is considerable of detail and ' who weio left In tho city were pardoned
circumstances lu the King confession I by the Carranza oMlcqjs w hen It was
and In the facts surrounding It us yet learned they had been prc-ssd Into
unexplained ami to me unaccountable. I Villa's smvlre and had fought against
I believe that King's confession Is a lie.
"I cannot escape the conviction, how
ever. In the light of all that has been
presented to me nnd which was not be
fore me when I denied the list applica
tion for clemency nfier 1 had granted
thtee reprieves, that there Is a P!-
bllltv. perhaps more than a possibility,
that this defendant Is not guilty.
and' repudiated by himself, could . not be
'The King confession, uncorroborated
I Introduced under our rules of evidence,
but I believe, nnd I speak from years
of experience In tho trial of criminal
cases, that no Jury In this country would
have convicted : tlclovv ot muruer in me
first degree with tho King confession
before It."
CALLS S0MME A OALLIP0U.
German Agency Hum II Cost Alllea
HIM), OHO or tIM),l)0ll Men.
Rerun, via wireless, Dec. 3. '
five months nf tho heaviest and
bloodiest of combats." says the Overseas
I v .. - mVi.i Unimitu nffxnalv lit
,cn .s"nv? - .-
j no place has advanced beyond ten M lo-
'side ' he.l'eves uly longer that the Gcr-
. man fi out can ne imiiicn.
TiZ too JO 0 to 000 000
the western Po vers SOO. OO t 900,000
''7,. r" " LCllKo "I? tlZh was
Juried wllli gig ntlc fresh .rmlesh. vvith
Ftarieu wnn gihiinin. innu "r, ..,.,
,l with Bleu itlc fresh armies with
,i If , il
. nf ll, 1 wm co t mo ?,
r,.l hi' belles. F LnTe defeo
war
two parts
history as the heaviest Kntente defeat.
It means a Gulllpon on tne continent.
PLANS BIO OIL FIELD FOR NAVY.
. " " "
Secretary l.anr Hrjes I'tllUntlon of
Lands In Colorado and t'tab.
Washington. Dec. 3. Withdrawal
from entry of 16,000 at res of public land
in Colorado and 86,000 acres In Utah,
Including a part of the Green River
formation, which It la estimated will
yield not leas than 1,000,000,00,1 barrels
of fuel oil, was recommended to Presi
dent Wilson to-day by Secretary Itne.
The lands lie within easy reach of
railroad line and It Is belleved.they will
ba exceedingly valuable as a fuel re
serve for the navy. They contain shales
which yield petroleum. In addition to
the heavy residuum this' shale oil will
yield 10 lo lf per cent, of gasolene, by
ordinary methods of refining, and aa a
by-product will produce ammonium sul
phate, a valuable fertiliser, in large
Br. rash's BtMBaa Net a mtdlrln b
ft.ateet ktalUfia4rtrdb-WdvsTfsitaal.
Baiiilit Evacuates City, Tak
ing With Him 2 Train
loads of Loot.
HIS LOSSES HEAVY
IX SOUTHERN FIGHT
Gens. Ozuna and Murguia
Have Strong Forces to
Guard Capital.
Jcaiiez. Mexico, Dec. 3. Gen. Carlos
Ozuna entered Chihuahua city from the'
north at 7 o'clock last nlgfet. according.
to a telegram received to-day by Gen.
rrancisco Gonzales. The message was
from Gen. Ozuna and was dated Chi
huahua city, and announced that the
Carranza forces have reoccupled the city.
Gen. Francisco Murguia, the Carranza
commander, who has been moving slowly
northward from Torreon, was also re
ported to have entered the city to-day
after having, defeated the Villa column
thirty miles south of Chihuahua city.
Gen. Gonzales was preparing to leave
late to-day for Chihuahua city with a
large command of Carranza troops. Ha
said telcgrnvhic communication has been,
restored south to Jimenez. j
T.nteat rennrlii her, nrn Hint mfiliv
, ,. , . , .
Mil followers have been captured and
klltftit. It tvnii nmintinrpii thrtt Vllln lint .
.... .... .. V
leu tor western cninuanua following,
1 timiin u, iiiwt,
No Americans have been Allied In Chi.
,iuahua ''. by Villa. nccorOIng to u prl-
vme iiiessnyxeci:iviu nere lu-nigm irum
that city, -.The message said that the
only forejgiieks to suffer were the
I Chinese, for whom the bandits showed
no mercy
(lauaaT'triiorta lu Border
After entertng tlie city, Gen. Ozuna.
tl ramlrv nmm.wtr l,n !,.,,
nghtlng tht rebels at Nomhro dc Dlos Oliver Osborne." Wax said, "and 1 do
and the northern suburbs of Chihuahua flded to " ? ? "mesake. Mr. (),.-
city, reestablished telegraphic commu
of nlcatlon with the border. He made a
heart of nie city on an exploring expedl-
jtlon. He was expected to report again
later,
The battle between the forces of Gen. """" "'.rr" '
Mursula and ;he bandits took place Frl- m' h.lm, u, ?m9 day,aml fvo h,m cv:
. - . ., . . . ......irral letters the ttlrl liad fflen mo unci
day and was believed to havo completely
ro'teJ thf v)u wWlttti vlUa aril, h,
fXa liri. ,,aM to n-ive KOnf 0 ,,p0.al
trains toward the west.
.Miirguia's column, his held equipment
...n,l he.-ivv nrlillerv.
-. -
Ttm i iiti jntn tin iti lrti t Inn hu lnrTl
reestablished with Torreon and Mexico
cty from the Chihuahua state capital,
The railroad has been repaired, and
tr tins are operating as far south as
jm(,ncz,
.Urfltrr llelnlU (onir
meagre details of the lighting
J "e'ved L It was Klleve b? I
J'";" x ,"t VHI. left
Chihuahua cltv some time yesterday
,,v.r t1,e Mexico ZhwcsTern Hallroad
'""J ,m,r"r,' iV.loot which
foil. v i.g the ; I J'The . v,
";,, "l "" f",h; . ores accord-
thclr will.
PROTOCOL PLAN UPSET,
Villa's Activity .May Change Com
plexlnn of Itordrr I'ntrol Scheme
Washington, Dec.
In northern Mexico m
. -t the State epar.ment
the protocol signed at the Atlantic City
conference. There are Indications to-day
that Fit st Chief Carranza will shortly
sign the, protocol, but the question has
arisen us to wtietner it will bo worth
while for this Government to proceed to
do lis share until It Is established
whether t'urrnnza or Villa Is to be the
ruling factor In the territory contiguous
to the border,
The Mexican plan for solving the
problem still adheres to the stipulations
outlined In the protocol. Carranza Is
.i nAt.lUca n.i n,l.-urA i. A ,..,,
nl'M fllmm.al ,, from ,ho ,,,,,
Slate. ' ,M,H", n.1"
: , ,,.i i
eak he power of the bandits.
Representative Kahn. ranking Itepub-
1 Mean member of the House Committee
I " Military. Affairs, who has Just re-
, - ,h u,,i.- ... i mi nnt
Military Affairs, wno tins just re -
'rm ,no h"lcr- "" " not
only munitions arc being smuggled
across Jn Irfrge quanlltles but that dum-
dum bullets are being shipped ns pari
of these munitions. He will Introduce a
retnlutlon for a searching Investigation
In the House to-morrow or soon there
after, i
Mr. Kalip says that Villa Is getting
complete control In northern Mexico and
that conditions nre lamentable. He fears
that if American troops are compelled to
fight there they will be "butchered hy
dumdum bullets" sent Into Mexico by
renegade Americans.
EHFER0B CHARLES AT FRONT.
Prince ('o)irad Mnrceeda Hnrlan aa
PI nanrr Minister.
AMSTcnnAic (via London), Dec. 3.
Accordlrut-tora Vienna despatch, Km
peror Ch'ii,rlcr has gone to the Austrian
armj' .headquarters.
Tliev'Vletnm Zrllunu has announced
tliBt Kmperor Charles has relieved llaron
Rurtsn, Ausfro-Hungailan Foreign Min
ister, ofi'lho portfolio of the Ministry of
1.-1.. .. ...... wSlnh t. lil,l i,...ululnti,.lli.
'and haij appointed rrincs Conrad von
liobenlobe In hla lUsa.
fter' understood to be on the point of asking . Osborne's home and told him lie would I nltlons of war and bonds to cover thel v vshimiton, Dec. 3.-Giant Forest,
Aiirr i" I t...itiri. ... il, ,..i .1 it, it i. ,n. i . nnlr.iet were to be deisisltcil vvltll ce-- .. ..i. .i t ,i, .. ..,..,
the tor nnnnciai ass suiiice irom tne I'niien , i---iw i .m..,.,,,-.,,,, - . - llM. untnfij nnneu n.n i o, mi- viuiiui-
tno , . I ., .i .... i.i i... f,.,,,,.i i,..., .,,ti.. i.jIm imU-. whleh were to receive a com- i.. .t. i ... u i..
States as SOOll IIS Hie protocol IS Slgueil ,,i.,.i. I - .. . " Iiaim-il in-i-s in un- oi-.in in pi-iuuiii
He may frankly liilmlt his Inability to 'ho Post Office liepin tmeiit sent notices , mission of one-half of l per cent, it, x.ttlonal Park, Is about to pass Into the
..v . . e lal
.iwi"...lieJi.'-i.;.;f.iA,.-l,,-l.,r1.'.'J?,.ifjr,'.,.; --s y. - ., , , . . ...... .. ... . ... .... . ... . , . , . ',.(,.. , 1.. - . . 4'H
Man Under Arrest Admits
He Won Affections of
Rae Tanzer.
TOLD STORY ONCE TO
.TAMES W. OSBORNE
Fled Then, Knowing He
Was Sought as Wit
ness in Suit.
Chicago, Dec. 3. Charles II, Wax.
who says he Is a graduate of Columbia
I'nlverslty, class of 1007, and a licensed
physician, wasarrested last night after
being, traced here by post office In
spectors. Ho told them ho Is the Olivor
Osborne who had a love affair with Rao
Tanzer, which led to tho factory girl's
sensational breach of promise suit for
ISO, 000 damages from James W. Os
borne. Ills arrest came as the result of his
flirtation with a girl whose acquaintance
ho made In Slate street. James K.
.Stuart, a post nlllce Inspector here, had
warning from New York, It Is said, that
i Wax was here. Deputy Inspectors nnd
inn police sergeants wete shadowing thn
man. He eluded them, hut from the girl
he had picked up they got his telephone
number. The rest was comparatively
easj..
The police say Wax has swindled 100
,.om 'from , ,,nn rtpr , nr
.... .nn. . v 4.1-
iii'jic uiiivicm iinmi-9. wnr in 111s 1 n uriie
pseudonyms la said to have been "Harold
Hell Wr ffht
nrtiTlbea .lertlnK (ilrl.
Wax told of meeting Miss Tanzer
about October 1, 13H, through a filrta
tlon near Columbus Circle. He met her
frequently after that, he said, and was
surprised ufter an aroualntanreship of
several months to read In a newspaper of
a suit against thn lawyer Oborne.
" " ' ' l sirrmus
iMjriw, unu iieiji mm uui vi inr scrape.
The next morning I went to his otllce.
but he was not there, but his law part
ner gave me his home address, and I
went out Jo Ilroadway and Seventy
second street. I mat hla wife and as
sured her that her husband was not the
hf lrl la,,,
made an anointment to meet
next ay. I didn it keep this 1
him the
because I
iuv ins""'" o u " - .trn.inn-11 in
go on ine wimees siann nim ich oi my wa, ,np president of the .-ompany ani yolk ln.,rket Alui It cannot but con
relations with her." I he hud the financial backing 1 ' . '
Wax said he "loaned" the girl $10 at
tim Ht,d gave her $20 at another I
"me. n saici neweni to.i .ew Jersey)
hotel with her lccause she sild she was i
a.fr"1'1 of "lectins bcr sisters In New
,urR
I'rrtend to Br Movers.
lie had reasons, aside from the T.jtizcr (
suit, for not wanting to be found, lie
said. He admitted lie knew he was
wanted as a witness In the i'ip.
means of the telephone call Wax
traced to 1016 Irving Park lloule-
vard, where he had been living, under the
name of "Frank Rurk." Detectives who
learned he intended to move Impersonated
the movers, and thus gained entrance to
his apartment.
Among the nllases he Is said to have I
useu nesiues uuver visoorne were i . if,
Havmond, Angus McDonald, Malsle
Mason Nye, George Newell. C, Harof?,
George Oliver Voshurgh. Telegaln Tobln.
C. It. Anderson nnd Oliver Wooster,
Wax will leave here to-morrow In cus
tody of posl oltlre olllclals and will be
taken to New York,
Rae Tanzer filed suit March 17. 101.1,
against James W. Osborne for I50.O00
damagei for alleged breach of promise. I
At the t rue she was worklnn In a fac
tory where women's hats were mule.
Mr. Osborne Is nn
attorney at 115
Ilroadway and for a long tlmo was as
Undated with the United States District I
Attorney's office.
llage. and had Induced her to accoin -
pany him to a hotel In rialnflcld, N. J,
In her letters -vnt to James W. Osborne
nt tho New York Athletic Club she re-
ferred all tho way through to "Dear
Oliver "
Jam'e., W Osborne insisted he had
been mistaken lor Oliver Osborne, a
younger man of mysterious Identity, who
rpparently spent much of his time In
m.-ikiiir invo to various iirU a
who said he was Oliver mneared at Mr.
scrlptlon nnd picture. aklng that he be
At Vlto trial of ,1,. .lanta .u.t Mr. Os
' bonm introduced evidence to establish
I that he In room a. -the P.ar Assocl-
fatlon on the day when lie was accused of
i registering at a hotel In Plaln.leld.
, Later Frank Safford. a hotel clerk, was
i sentenced to servo a term for nerlnrv us
i i.aier rrim cniiuru, u noiei ciera, wos
i sentenced to servo a term for perjury as
result of the caac. Miss Tanzer also
was tried on a charge of perjury. Tho
Jury disagreed.
The Coliiinbm Record shows no record
of any student by the name of C. H.
Wax graduating from the university in
1907,
91,000,000 SANITARIUM FUND.
Christian Science Directors An
nounrr Plans for .er UnlldliiK.
RosTON, Dec. 3. The Christian
Science sanitarium which Is to occupy a
site on I -one Tree Hill, Rrookllne, will
be built, equipped and maintained
through the establishment of i fund ex
ceeding $1,000,000, plans for whlcll were
announced to-night by the Christian
Science "board of directors,
The rinllarlum- will be under the Im
mediate supervision of the Christian
Science Henevnlent Association, at least
$600,000 will be used and the plans for
the fund Include ulso an. expenditure nf
1526,000 for purchasing teal estatn ad
joining the mother church property in
this city. The purpose to which the new
j proper ly i to m put i nuv announcea
3. Villa activity Two days after the suit w is tiled Miss "V.,i will, ilia concern nt 60 llro-iihvay. 1 'ven the prosperous I'nlted States, be
ly completely up-' Tanzer was arrested, charged with mall- "? '"J,. J ' ! o the ten-' "'ere Is a near limit even to the
's plans to settle Ing n fraudulent letter to Mr. Osborne. . ,,1Ilrl(.t Attorney Swann w.s I amount that can be spared. It is nr
nlcahly through Mr. Osborne, according lo the girl, had ' " , ,, ' ,r' , ,n,.u ioi,hl.,.r nronoM-Uued that the aggregate public nnd
won her affections on promise of mar-1;. private expenditure must lie limited to
I all over tho country with (liners ile. ' was sail lllll ine men ni-ic uauninc in , ,, . nf tie (tnvei nment thmiic i en.
' - . i . H
Embassy Repudiates Cor
poration and Lord Rothcr
ham as Unauthorized.
SWANN MAKES INQUIRY
INTO ANOTHER AGENCY
s
Several Companies Said to
Be Offering Great Issue of
Imperial Securities.
Hankers were greatly puzzled jester1
day over the announcement of the Rus
sian Kmbatsy In Washington to the ef
fect that the Amerlcan-ltusslan Corpora
tlon of 60 Broadway had no authority
to place Russian S per cent, bonds on the
American market. They also were curi
ous to leant something concerning the
directorate of the Amerlcan-ltusslan
Corporation and Inquiry developed that
for several weeks a quiet Investigation
, , , ., , ,
VZ , ., ,, .n Zy Z I, I
corporation and tho men behind It.
Investigation also brought out the fact
that In the last several weeks there have
heen tliren ,.r fnur distinct ninvements bv
been three or four distinct moements i.
siiiuii corporauons wimn
tnemscives as naving auinoniy i ecu me gates 01 ine caimai, noi in ine wur- nusslan reeiuorcements, made n bold at
Russlau bunds, make contracts for sup-, pathlaim or the Dobrurlja. In Gallcla or i tempt nt 'a turning movement such as
piles for Russia anil to drvotdt the pro
ceeds of the bonds with various banks.,
One of these concerns not tho Ameri-I
can-Russian Corporation It was learned I
yesterday, lias been under the scrutiny
of the District Attorney's Olllcc.
tlfJIcr Taken Six Weeks Abo.
Information concerning the American
Russian Corporation was sought becatie
of the announcement made by the Rus
sian Kmbassy tit the effect that the
"corporation and Lord Rotherliam have
no authority whatever from the Imperial
Government to place Russian 5 per cent,
liondi on the American market," nnd
because It was made clear that the
American Russian Chamber of Com
merce, also of 60 Rro4dway, has had no
associations whatever with the concern.
From what facts could be gathered
yesterday It seems that the corporation
leased offices in 60 Ilroadway, owned
by the Columbia Trust Company, about
six weeks ugo. Reforc the rooms ere
leased, It was said esterday, an Investi
gation of the concern was made and
the men Interested In It were said to be i
r ,. mn.t .leslrabte ..haraeier. It was
unit sir iiugn Mitlierianu ot "annua
Ixird
Rotherham, a banker of high
standing In lmdon. The corporation
wa M,i to le acting for a synuic.iie ot
which l.ord Rotherhatn was the head.
For Pnrehnse of Soiille.
It was sabl that the plan of the
.oncern was to sell JIOO.OOO.UOO of ltll-
,,; )r tll ,r'p.'t them with !
various banks and fie proceeds were I" ' PH,. f ,mr remaining American sceuii
be used to pay for supplies that weie to , ,nt, utmiist extent of our power
be contracted for by the corporation for jH t. more economical course, Perhaps
the Russian Government. Then sup- j tl, mi,Ht Rratlfylug of all Is thn further
plies, however, were not really munitions . ,.xpreion of practical good will which
of war. I the Incident has evoked from our ally
The plans of the corporation. It was , jlipai,,
said. Involved commissions for banks. The .Vnc Siitrsimin says i "Those who
and trust companies tint were to act as
ilenosltiirles for the bond". After leas-
ini. iiIP olllces and attending to ceitaln
matters Sr lUKh Sutlierl.mil went
nbm.nl. Who was left In .minority in
the olllces could not be learned yester
day The Investigation of the person" Iwj-
i. .. . w .,.1.1 t limv heen sit.
i i ....... ln..,,tl.t..i flirt
lSI.U"lor 111 i'i"i,i i. i .... .....
i tlon Is said to have written to
s banks throughout the country
corpor
various
telling of the bonds which It had to pu.t
(,c market.
Slmnrd HI lO.OOO.OOII I'ontrni't.
While the Amcrlcan-ltui-lan Corpora-
w.lH ..,pk. around for a foothold
'In this country the District Attorneys
! olllcc began an Investigation Into an en-
term- so fat liereil ny persons not i-iin-
' " . , 1,1. ,,,.
A 1 ' 1 "" ' h .', ..Vi.VA
financiers of biubtfu I . u . tl. n. was
said to claim nuthorltj froiu tli I ussiaii
' -v.-rnmc.it or '"n" .'"m .i "
Russia to make contracts for munltlops i
1 ' '""W "!' bor.ls with!
I banks as security for tho fulfilment of
1 the contracts,
TmH,?' ,K0,! n o !mT!,', T. i5,'
n contract for $110,000,000 which had,
been given to a big corporation for tint -
start a corporation and capitalize their
authority as buying agents for the litis, i m(., an, n. .atonal Geographic So
.I,... rtn'..rioiieiit and nut l.irce blocks I ..i... ..
nf stuck on the market,
This enterprise, however, had nothliii;
whatever to do with the Amerlcan-Rus
Man Corporation.
NO TROOPS ON BRITANNIC.
British Adiulrnlly Takes Wlinck nt
Ilerlln Wlrelrss Vlessnue.
l.nNl'ON. Dec. 3. -A statement was' Nports t be 4,000 cars old One of
Issued by the Admiralty to-night, which tj,m Uie General Slieinian, tlio
makes reference to German wireless men. i largest lu the world, having a 'clrciini
s.iges to the embassy at Washington ' ferenco at Its base of HU feet and
promulgating "mendacious reports pur -
uni ting to emanate from Rottei dam that
the hospital ship Rrltannlc had troops
on board."
Tho Admiralty reiterates that a com
plete statement of nil persons a hoard tho
Rrltannlc was published November 2t,
nnd adds that llrltlsli hospital ships
firry neither personnel nor material
other than Is authorized by tho Geneva
ittid tho Hague conventions.
I Itr.iil.iN (by wireless), Dec, The
Overseas News Agency gives out the
following for publication.
'Rotterdam reports, according to in
fill niatlou (rum London, that the Ililtlsh
liosnllnl ship llrllaunlc, recently sunk,
hud from 100 to 500 soldiers on hoard i
wlio neither belonged to the crew nor
the Red Cross, lu addition then- weiel
more than 100 olllccrf, among whom
were several aviators, on board."
TEUTONS PIERCE VITAL
DEFENCES OF BUCHA RES T
Cross River at Two Points and Press on Toward
Capital Drive of Russian and Rumanian
Troops Fails, Says Berlin.
London, Dec. 3. Russian and Hu
manlan armies dealt a strong counter
blow to the Turks and Uulgars south of
Bucharest to-day, but west of the capl
. . i . t
tal German troops forced a crossing of
the River Argcs. In the upper Argcs
Valley the Rumanians were routed
again
Russia' great offensive In the Car
pathians has dented but has nowhere
broken tho Teuton llne. The Russian
footing In the pas.i town of Klrlibaba
lias been lost. The Russluns nrc still
striving to break through by sheer
weight of numlicrs. but the Teutons
are not only holding their own but
counter attacking.
SukhnrnlT Is Stopped.
Gen. Kakbaroffs offensive In the Dob-
rudja lias been stopped. Turks and Hut-
hv. counter attacked him. ca,,tur- -
lne tR.u of lhe urm,h armored tanks I
and their crews of British troops which )
had been acnt to the defence of Ru-
rna,1'a I
Uuctlart. mllltary txv.UK hcre ,
believe, will be settled on the Arges, nt
voinynia. n great uaine un me u
RESERVE BOARD ACT
MEANS LESS BUYING
Loudon Papers Foresee He
diiceil Purehnses by Failure
to Sell Bills Hcre.
London. Dec. S. Referring to the
American Federnl Reservo Hoard's pro
nouncement, the Sunday Timet says:
"The Incident Is not pleasant, but there
are several consolations to be drawn
from It. Firstly, It come at the right
time and not after the Incurring of a
consalerahlo volume of short term lla-
iiiiuy ny our uovernmeni in um- .
dine to a greater economy lu our pur
chases of Anieilnan products and time
probably will show that in many dlreo
lions ability to buy greatly has Increased
the need.
"Further, It Is to our advantage In
definitely to expand our foreign held debt
nrd to restrict the shipment of gold hud
have a finger on the financial pulse have
lately been feeling Increasingly une.iKy
about the nation's expenditure We ale
trvlng to continue the spending of 1.
Ooo.floo.ooo n year, when at most we have
t -no. 000. 000 to do It with, That Is why
the Chancellor of the i:chequer has not
only been driven to borrow fiom thei
t'nltp.l i-tntes nn iJttretllelv irenerous
t.,m. ...-irlv. nil if .ittr n.l rk nt :i hlrt fi:. '
.v. i......
I eig.i Investments III order tn pawn them
I nt New York, but Is nlso compelled to
Uiirow from hand to mouth from bankers
there In order to ki ep exchange from
going to a I'mgerimsly adverse figure,"
The newspaper adds that the deficit
can be made up from the accumulated
wealth only to a limited extent, because
It Is not In the form In which It can
pa s.i Immediately into consumption, nnd,
mil h more, cannot lie sold to neutrals
i a I urn Increasingly near the annual pro
ducllon. and that fr.OO.fiOO.ooo retiench-
,,y ,,. ,)ft.p
wrk,,rN ,10. .,, m,)mcs ,ove
the Income .ax minimum.
. T.m n
TJ, S TfJ QX GIANT FOREST,
l Appropriated for Trnrt In
1 Heart f M iiioln Pnrk
operation between the .Interior Depart
1 clely
Ciingie-s during the lat session up-
ptopilatrd triO.oOO to pun-hase the laud,
but tin' owners tcfuseil to sell unless
' adjacent holdings valued at $20,000
1 were taken at the same time. An option
' mi tho entire tract was obtained, and
1 the board nf managers nf the Geographic
I Society has appiopiiated the $20,000 to
i .make isivslble the Immediate painriit
of $70,000
in the Giant Forest are trees said by
, towering 2T0.9 feet Into the air.
I . -
SIX MORE SHIPS ARE SUNK.
Three llrltlsli, Our .nrvt eglnn nnd
Two French Sent to Ilottom.
UiNI'on, Dec. D The llrltlsli steam
ship llnrpalus. lit"' t"" uross, was
.unt vesteiday by a submarine, says a
gucen'slovvn despatch. Tli" crew was
laiiueu.
Mnd's repnrts the sinking nf the fol
lowing vessels:
ililtlsh steamships ilureombe. 3.51K
i innH lmh. and Istnir, t,fjS2 tons gross.
Norwegian steamship Skjolduf, IS9
ion grnss,
i.'i-ench sailing vessils Rrlautnis, 2,'fi
tons gross, and Cap-Lthou, 252 tons
igiosa,
mile front l giving way to the battle of
tha Aiges, which I'etrograd says to-day
Is "assuming the character of a crcat
battle."
The Argr Is the real defence tine of
Rucharest, far more dependable than the
. . ... . . ' .-..
clty'H double ring of steel and concrete
forts. German troops, have crossed the
liver at the tjiost Important part of Its
course, west of Rucharest. On Its iipcr
course, northwest of Rucharest, the Teu
tons arc on both sldr of the river,
nteaMily pushing the Rumanians back
southeast upon Rucharest.
.Markrnirn In Defeated,
TVtrograd announces that the litis-
sl.ins defeated Von .MnckensenV Ger-
mans and tlulgars who had crossed the
linube, threw them back, took many 1
prisoners and much booty, a part of j
which was twenty-six suns. The Ru-
manlans announce that the victory was ,
won eleven mlle southwest of Huchar- '
est at"a Vwlnt where tho Teutons had
ir., , i,i,i nnu. i mii f ih.
outer forts,
lul tj,P Teuton account of the flght-
Ing southwest of Muchairst Ik a differ-
f nt Mo According to Ilerlln and
Vienna the Rumanians, stiffened hy j
jorrre launciieu at me uaitic of tne
.Marnc.
ine imnuiiiiuin iuianceti ni-ru.-i ine,..
Nlaslov. advancing from the Arges sK "' "'- ""fl""' ,
or seven miles. Thl column, trying n ' tho King to consent to t ie rcconstruc
ftanklng movement, was Itself outflanked tlon of tho Government,
bv attacks from south and wet and H was stated In well Informed quar
driven back over the Niaslov toward , let's that David Moyd George, the War
Rucharest. That Is the Teuton version 1 Serietary, forced tho crisis by Informing
of what may have boon an nttempt to Premier Asqulth that he could not re
' sac Rucharest as Paris was saved.
I According to the Russian statement. !
however, "the Rumanian operations
south of Rucharest, with the assistance
of Russian troops, arc developing sue- 1
cessfully."
,
Itnmatilans Lose (inns. ,
In the upper Arges. northwest of ,
Rucharest. German troops by a dashing I
advance like that of yesterday. In which ,
the Rumanian division headquarters was
captured, cut through to Gaestl, forty-
five miles northwest of Rucharest. Com
manded by a wounded Major of German
artillery, they captured six howitzers
from the Rumanians a full battery.
This steady, mnchlnellkw advance has
given the Teutons thus far upuaids of
115 000 smiare miles of Rumanian soli,'
u. "'r. . ', "":!,'." '
ii-iiiii- fiiiim 1,'itnii..
"Gen. TueltT von Tochefe mid Welden- i reiiiieisinp. or. iiiuee.i, inai any it-sigim.
bach has been appointed chief of 'the Hon- mo Impending, and for the moment
irMltarv administration of Rumania1," Mho only Important dlffetciice lu the per
sas ail olllclnt statement Issued to-day soninl of the Ministry seems lo bo Ilia
at Rerlln. which declares. "A large pal t , reiidmlsslou of Sir IMwanl Cut son.
of Rumania liavlr.f fallen Into the hands Tin political coi ii'spondents toticur
of the Central Powers, an sulmlnlstra- that the crisis win lesult lu tho constl
tlon for the conquered districts lias been ' tutlon ot a small war council of four or
established." five members, exclusive of naval unit
military advisers, for it inoro vigorous
The Offlclnl Reports. prosecution of the war. Their Informa-
The ..mclal announcement, tegarding ! howeu-r. irgardlng tho personnel
the lighting follow. The German state-1 "f 'his cntmc.l differs considerably re.
inent to-night said only that the German Balding certain pmspectlvo members,
advance on the Arge was "successfully ''.-peclall.v with lef.itnco to Mr. As
puhcd." The dav German statement , quith's lncluslnn therein,
lends- ' I The Dally .'rus'.t Parllmcntary corre-
Front of Archduke Jof ph Veter- spoiulent. who Is almost Invariably well
day wa the fifth day of the ltu-o-o. Intornied. sas tlu Mr. Moyd Gcorgo
Rumanian nffensive In'the Cnrpathhins. : had a two hours talk with the Prime
The attacks were illiected mainly .Minister on Sunday, , is a u-.-ult of w hlijlt
against the German lilies In the Cat- ' I1 was agiei-d that b'dh Mr squlth
pathhili foiests. On the Gutlntom- nnd Mr. Moid George would remain In
natek. on the Sniotren ami, with cs- ' the Govi-rumeut. Tho rorrespoudentsj
pedal violence, west of llfcnliidovu understand that Mr Mo.vd Georgo
nnd frequently on the Cretraln Heights
the Russians slmmed, alwns without
result. Our lite made large gaps in
the masses of attacKi-rs,
Advancing on the retieat.ng enemy,
ii Geinian (ha-eur detachment near
llabaluilnva brought back four olllcnrs
and more than 3ii of tho rank and tile.
Also, cast of Kirlibiba and on both
sales of the Trutll and Olttls vallfjs
strong attacks failed Several hun
dred piisoneis were taken there.
Xraes lliiltle t ontlniies,
l-'iont of Field Marshal von Matken
Frn The battle on the Arges con-
tliiui-s. having taken thus rar tne
course Inti'iidi'il by our coinniand.
Fiom Klmpolung nnd piie-ci iii-rman
and Auslio-llunKarlan tioiqis gained
ground lighting.
In the Ames Valley last night two
battalions of West Prussian Infantry
Regiment 21, vvith arilllety under
command of the wounded Major von
Rk-hter nf Field Artillery Regiment
M. advanced as fur as Gaestl Unity
five ni.lrs noithwest of Rucharest) and
captuied Vlv howitzers from the cm my.
The Argis was cmssed further down.
An advancing Rumanian detachment
which hud pushed ahead southwest of
lluchaiesl across the Alges and Nuis
Inv was nultlanked and -thrown buck
wltli heavy losses tnvvanl thn nottli
cast, nctos's the Niaslov sector
Itiisslnns Vre Itrpnlscd.
On Un extreme right wing, on the
Danube, Russian attacks nn December
I wete icpulsid Willi heavy losses, inn
situation thcie was unchanged vestcr-
day. . .
The boot) nf the Ninth and Danube
ulinles finm yrtcrdn' engagements
several an omoblles and v.r m.ili)
niner veiiieii-r.
on tin west wing of the DoliiinlJ.v
front llulgailaii teglments repulsed
sliong nttacUs. partly by tlielr llro
and p.irth b an advance beyond their
own lines, Fin titer cast, Turkish and
lliilgnilan detachments advanced
against Russian sMlt Win and rnado
prisoners from thrclttnsslan divisions,
tlius estahlishlug the distribution of
tin hostile foiccs. They captured two
armored automobiles with Ilrltisli
crews.
The Austrian statement follows:
Southwest of llin barest the enemy.
wltli quickly assembled strong fones
sought lo effect a turning movement
This movement was attested riom tlio
niitli ,.ti,l nest, nnil thn enemv forens
were driven back over tlm Niaslov.
At the samo tlmo German troops
crossed the Arges west of Rucharest,
Teuton Press On,
West and southwest of Gasstl Alls-tro-Hungarlan
and German divisions
overcame renewed Rumanian resist
mice, other columns of Gen. von Fai
I Ctmtlnusd o Second rag, I the week end and took tlio lutiu of 4 W
Smaller War Council t(i
Mud Irresolute War
Policy.
WA It SECRETARY MAY 1
HEAD NEW CABINET
Change Is "With View,
to Most Effective Prose
cut irin of the War."
CAIISON AND LABOII
MAN FOR COUNCIL:
i:, A;, ,;..., in Cnnnb in
1 11 1110 .MlUlMO!' 10 IH
House of Commons This
Afternoon.
London, Dec. 3. Premier Asqulth
has decided to ndvlsc the King to con
sent to the reconstruction of the Oov
ernmcnt.
This was olllclally announced to
night In the following statement:
"Tho Prime -Minister, with n view ta
, the most effective prosecution of thu
i-i,!..., . i,.inuv
main m tne raninei unless wio ina
chlnery directing the conduct of thej
war was ilniHtlctilly i-hatiKcd.
It Is understood that Premier A II I til
will see the King iiEitln to-morrow morn"
Ing and thereafter mako u statement In
the House of Commons In explanation ol
,nf. situation.
Nothing Is known nt the moment on
which to base n precise Interpretation
of the otliclol statement respecting "tha
reconstruction of tho Government," ob-
vlmisly a somewhat v Ide'tvrm In tho clr
cumstanevs,- and whether it means a
mats resbufftlug of posts or Fnmethlnc
more drastic Is not ct apparent.
tsqtiltli t ItiMiiuln.
n,cie I" nothing suggesting that .Mr.
Asoullh .onlemiilates abandoning the
Thete Is iinthlue suggesting that .Mr.
favors a small war council which
would not include Mr. Asqultli, who, ha
thinks, should di-voto hlmsi-lf to tin)
government of the countiy apart from
the war
Mr Moyd Geotgc's proposed role lit
the new wir coiiucll would, accord lm
In tho same coiiespondcnt, not differ
i-icatb finiii the position I. nrd Kltch.
i-in-r held m the War Otllce, that Is to
sa It vvould to some extent be lnde
penileiit of the Government
He would havo adviser?, but the
power-of making war decision would lio
hit-
Tlie linllii ,V icv correspondent limler-
sland- that nltlioiigli tin- pos.ihuity ot
adding Sir IMwanl Cir-on to thn Cah.
im-i nas ii.-en canvassed in inner political
iiiclt-s, he It ih received no dhect Invita
tion to serve wltli tho Ministry Accord
ing to the Information of other politic il
correspondents, sir IMwatd's inclusion
Is p.ut of a definite scheme of Llov-I
George's conception.
Lenders Confer Willi Premier.
Throughout the day thcie have been,
consultations and meetings of party
leaders at tho Piemler's n-sldence Mr.
Lloyd George had a long cousultatlort
wltli the Premier this afternoon, Other
visitors weio A. Itnu.ir Law, Secretary
for the Colonies, and tin Marquis nf,
Ciewe. Lord Piosldent nf the, Council,
Perhaps tho most significant Incident
l was that Sir IMwanl Carson and Mr.
Law appeared togcllu r and nddiessed a
I morning meeting of tho l'nlmilst Com
I mittee, while tho K-irl of Dei by, t'nder
J Secretary for Win. bad n long Interview
with Mr. Lloyd George,
j The political crisis was the chief
topic of discussion lu thn Sunday news.
papers. ThnAXcckly lirsimlilt sa.vs Itn
I George proposed th- formation of a
small war council, Including Sir IMward
Carson, but excluding Premier Asqulth
and A J. Ilalfour, Firs Lord of the Ad.
mlralty Rnth Carson and l.lmd George,
the Weekly Dcs)nUch ,ilds, am not un.
willing that A. Hnnur Law should havo
a seat lu tho council, but ho It unde
cided. The Sitnifny 7 burs savs1 "Sir lSd.
ward Carson U qulle willing to Join a
Cabinet headed by Lloyd Gnoige hihI
other leading I'nlnnlwtx will fnlloiv hli
example, but 'lie suugeslloii 111 it Honar
Law shnuld take olllcn lor a sluut term
as a 'warming pan' for M-.vd Genrpo U
qiilto ludicrous,"
r . t"',l vn
1'U1 I' O li U
lle Proposeil n Wnr I oniliiltlee n(
Four Mrmt'i'rs.
fiprcfal Cable ififi7i lo Tin. Scs tiom th
I ttntttt'i hmti
Lonpon, Dee. -I iMonda.v) The Put-.
Ilamentarj1 m respondent of In Tlinri
writes as follows on tho C liiuet crisis j
"The iolltlcal storm luol.o daring
the week end ami took tlio lutiu of 4
i
1
f
