[ EA 7 , fi oI aA m
76e Hual "uism v ds,
Doamid .mda-W 36ca m& ..
NO. 3P9. WUmURvAML WASBIENGTDN. D. _P, MONDAY, -DECEMBER 4, 1916. qONE CENT
WALL OF STEEL
HALTS TEUTONS 1
NEAR BUCHARESTi
Russian Re-enforcements Aid
Rumanians in Repelling At
tacks South of City.
FALKENHAYN ADVANCING
German Anny to Norihwaet of Cam l
Slowly Progressing Dewite
Stabbera R-=bnc=.
, aIed. co t no W ... a
London, Dee. L-Pield Marshal von
--.-.n' terrifit drtv. on Muhalr.t
fm the .oth bas been temprarly
bated by Rmnnsnjans and Rumatla= the
litter rushed to the aid of the capital's
defender* by the Csar's field comnmand
era More Ru=lman re-enforcements are
-antly arriving, and the allied capi
tab ae beginning to bope that the Rn
maian eat of government may fet he
maved.
While Von Mackensen is locked in a
terrific struggle with the Russo-launan
ian hosts to the south of the city. Gen.
von Falkenhayn is reported to be mak
ing slow but steady progress in his drive
On Bucharest from the northwee pe
spite the desperate resistence offered by
the Rumanians, Von Filkenhayn Is now
reported to have reached Gaesel, thirty
miles from the outer fortifications of the
beleaguered city.
. Battle Line ef Fifty Miles.
In a titanic eleventh-hourt effort to
avert a junction of the main forces of
Mackensen and Falkenhayn, the Rumani
ans, aided by Muscovite troops, are offer
ing battle on a front of some fifty miles
along the Arges River. South of Bucha
rest the Ruseo-Rumanian forces, accord
ing to Petrograd and Bucharest. inflicted
a defeat on Mackensen*s army, driving
them off toward the mouth. On the other
hand a Teuton flanking movement dis
astrous to a Rumanian column mouth of
the capital Is admitted by the Rumannaa
war office.
Meanwhile the tusso-Rumanian offen
sive in the Carphlans and part of the
Transylvanian Alps continued during the
last thirty-six hours without a moment's
let-up. Petrograd claims the capture of
two villages and 0 prisoners. Berlin
asserts all Museovite onslaughts were
without avail.
Reports of a partial capture of Kirli
baba, one of the "gates" to the Hun
garian plain, are disposed of by the Run
sian stateipent that the fighting center.
on the region "east and northeas" of
that point. Moreover the Teutons are ean
the offensive in this area, though Pegg
grad asserts they were reputlsd.
Plam "Muiiary Administration."
Of tremendous economic importanoe Is
;n official statement issued last night in
Berlin supplementary to the account of
the military operations. It tells of the
installation of a "military administra
lion in Rumania' and contains this sig
i1cant passage:
"'ultivation of the country will be
t arried out according to the principles
5rviouisly established which partly cor
responds to the necessities of Rumania
3nd partly on account of the necessities
of the Central Powers, cut off by Eng
!nd. contrary to international law."
Apart from indicating that the Ger
man government appears to feel certain
'hIt the Teutons are in Rumania to stay.
I s announcement clearly foreshadows
(tonsive exploltatin of the tremend
- anian resources. particularly in
grain. wheat and cattle.
(;Pn. von Tschepe und Weldenbach, for
erly --hief commander of the Eighth
Army C'orps with headquarters at Co
"cc. ha, been appointed chief of the
Touton military administration in Ru
CARDINAL WHBONSSIS
GERMAN PEACE EFFOT
Prelate Believes Hollweg Statement
May Pave Way.
0 my the Internatlessl News Service.)
Baltimore. Dec. 3.-Venturing the opin
1b, that the recent treatment of Von
Biethmann-Hollweg, German Imperial
Chancellor was most significant. Cardinal
Gibbons in an interview today declared
that while the apparent efforts of the
German nation to work toward the lines
of peace, were most cotmendable, that
nothing could be done until the other
belligerents had adopted the same atti
tude. This he maid, he hoped would be
aoon and be made special inquiries of
his interviewer as to whether anything
of such nature had emnated frost the
capitals of the ailies.
"It takes two to make a bargin," aid
the Cardinal. "And It is my most fer
vent trust that peace willbe -agreeable
to ail of the belligerents, for this will
. be the only kind of peace which will
. have any lasting effects.
"The statement of the German Imperial
Chancellor sounds, I hope, the keynote of
a peace which shall be an honor to the
various nations at war. Each of the war
ring countries .would rather be at peae
than at war, butbeing at war is unwll
lag to make psaon teems which wodld
carry wIth It hnumiliatngr conditions."
TEST ARMY TANKS IN DESET.
Sani Antonio. Tex., Dee. I-Jyhe United
tatnes army's first eatermittr 'tractor
tanwsbelieved by officer. here t
have started today on the second half
of Its crawling josiney over the West
Texas Desert between Marfa snd Pre
sldla. Reports of the train'. experimsO
tal trip are behg awaited with interet
by officers at Port Bam Houston, who
see in the maw moede of traneportaion
a revolutiiing innusnee in trafflo aloag
the border, where good roads are few
snd motor trucks canno go.
Caynga. Ind., Dee. 1-Marte ice00, the
ln...ne an wa et night shot adl
.ed Martio 5. ooses, sheriff of Verncs
Cein@. whie the latter attempted to
*rrest him, was eatered today in the
woods maer his hemae here. Hes offered
n resistane Ries opeed fire on Jones
when the latte answered a -*m--- by
DiSn'=Wtam ah shaman ham mmm
Mrs Jemie Sae Dodge
Gob Fid Diwrce Dicre
Now York, Des. L--M , Jnmie mean.
Dodg, for many years prominent ta
New Tork society and daughter of MI.
P1rry Belmont, has been granted a 0121
deares of diveres from Wiom ]ard
Dodge,
The action was brought te Saratega.
N. Y.. where Mras Dodge he ber sum
e reaems Miss Sloe In the eldeet
daughter of Henry T. Sloane. wealthy
New York carpet manufacturer. William
Earl Dodge, member of the copper firm
of PhelV. Dodge & Co.. recently has
gained fmer. as an aviator. The wed
ding ten years ago was a eoclal event.
Rumors mg dissension between the
Dodges began last wiater Sevalt
nmethe ge it was learned that Mr.
Dodge had left the home at 113 East
Seventy-first street. a gift from the fath
er of the bride. He took up his reel
dene at the Rits-Carlton. where he re
tned his apartment until a mouth ago.
40CIRLS,$200,000
IN VILA'S LOOT
Sacking of Chihuahua Replen
ishes Bandits' War Stores.
(By the Iaternatiemal News Serviae.)
El Paso, Tex.. Den. S.-Forty of Chi
huahua City'a. beautiful society girls.
i20,00 in silvV bullion and several train
loads of food and other supplies Is part
of the loot "Pancho" VIlla I taking into
the mountains with him after the sys
tematic sacking of the capital, according
to dispatches reaching here tonight.
Juares still is worried that the bandits
north of Chihuahua will Induce the
Juarez garrison to revolt and turn over
the city.
Villa adherents declare that as a re
sult of his successes In Chihuahua his
army Is bigger than ever. They predIct
that Torreon will be the next city to fall.
Villa impreezed all residents of Chihua
hua City as laborers and divided the town
into sections. forcing the residents to
remove the loot to trains.
34yor Herrera. of Juares, reported he
had reciOved word that all Americans In
bihuahua City were safe. This Ia dis
puted by Consul General Garcia and Con
sul Bravo.
According to Consul Bravo Carranslstae
agaIn are In full possession of Chihuahua
City.
Villa retired In the direction of San An
dress.
The rumor that Gen. Trevino Is dead
is scoffed at by federal agents, who ad
mit, however. that they believe he was
wounded.
Villa is now well supplied with all aorta
9f supplies, experts Say.
G'im, Bel. at Fort Blies. L Pam, ba
his gun trained upon Juares to use in
case shells should fall on the American
side.
BE YOIJNEIGHBOR'S
WIFE'S PAL, IS PLEA
English Woman Advocates More So
cial Intercourse.
sedal t. n. e .
Chicago, Dec. &.-Can you be a pal with
your neighbors wife?
The fact that the American man shuns
the companionship of women, marred
and unmarried, except that of his wife.
lest tongues begin to wag, has disturbed
Miss Marie Shedlock, of London, who
maintains that In England men and wom
en can be pale, even chummy, and that
people miss the most stimulating friend
ships If they don't.
Miss Shedlock, who is coming to Chi
cago to recite fairy fables to grown-ups,
asserted today that the wide disparity
of activity between American men and
women struck her as one of the out
standing characteristlcs of American
life. .
"You have women's clubs over here,
fenlinine discussion circles for polities,"
said MIss Shedlock. "In most of your
life the sexes are segregated, while in
England women talk politics as rhuch as
men. Some of my best friends are men.
American women, however, are afraid to
have frienda among men. They think
there Is danger of impropriety."
BRITISH ARMY EMPLOYS
I,100 WOMEN SURGEONS
Sex Quickly Wins Refgnition for
Work at Front.
Spscial to The Washisgton Herald.
London, Dec. 1.-Announcement that
the Royal Army Medical Corps wants
fifty more ewomen physicians for duty
with the colors has called attention to
the splendid and successful work which
women physicians attached to the corps
are doing.
Women army physicians have won rem.
ognition to such an extent that ee early
ae July the first of them to be elected
for service In the field hoepitale were
ordered to Malta, one of the greatest of
the British hospital bases.
There are about 1,n. women on the.
BrItlah MedIcal Register, compared with
5,160 men. It is said' that the need for
physicIans for the armhy is so urgent that
the Cambridge University Senate bee now
under consideration the admission of
women studying medIcine there to the
Bachelor of Medicine degree.
Albany, Dec. 1.-Governor Whitma to
day man3nuted to life Imprisonment the
death sentenne of Charles F. Stielow,
Orleans farm band convicted of murder*
lrthe first degree, In Oasntln with the
elayfag of his esedoyer, Charles Apples,
and the bitbs's honneheeper.
The governor bee reprieved Stielow
three tImes. ene as he waV seet to be
put ip death. and a Supreme Court ardor
he@.up- the .aenton agm as Stielow
wee bpn prepared for the ealce chaIr.
The uss on follows a he-arIng last
week w Former Distulet Attorney
James W. Oabrn. and ether fassme
an a eesom a=gued dm., mamssaa
The Govei
(WIth
To the Members
The present truly trement
been apparent to the most cast
The aed of
plhyes-*ra
they do, baed .i
This short session of Cong
available, and it is one in whi<
of similar action of employers
SHAK[UP NEARER
British Cabinet Smash Ex
pected in Few Days.
(By the Internatiemal News Serviee.1
London. Dec. 3.-The reconstruction of
the British government. freely rumored
for weeks, is about to become a fact.
A statement issued tonight by the O3
cial Press Bureau announced that Pre
mier Asquith bs decided to advise the
King to consent to a ministerial reor
ganization.
Overshadowing all else In the political
situation is the question "what will
Lloyd George do?". It is on every one's
lips, hut no one tonight could even guess
at an answer.
A report which as circulated every
where throughout tMe day and which fail
ed to be denied-either by 'himself or
officially-was that the war minister hpa
tendered his resignation. The reasons
for this reported step are shrouded in
mystery. Rumors that the war minister
had put the government and the coun
try before the alternative: "Either Pre
mier Asquith goes or I go," failed to be
substantiated in any quarter. Moreover,
the fact that the war minister had an
extended conference with the premier
this afternoon tended to dispel this the
ory altogether.
That the atmosphere is ominously
charged with dangers which if not steered
clear of In the eleventh hour may de
velop into an unprecedented political up
heaval is admitted even in the highest
quarters. And It is conceded with equal
frankness that Lloyd George holds the
key to the whole situation.
SAY TEM WERE "GASED."
St. Paul, Dec. 3.-The artistic value of
two shade irees is in question in a IM
damage suit brought In district court
against the St. Piul Gas Light Company
by John O'Donnell.
Mr. O'Donnell asserts he planted a o
elder and an elm tree fourteen years ago
in the boulevard in front of his home.
In the spring of 1511, says Q'Dolli
the gas company's pipe to a street letup
began to leak, killing one tree.
WOODEN LEG IN DmVOICL
Pittsburgh. Dec. 3.-Uecause her hug
band had deceived her before end at the
time of their nmarriage in Cnnbgriand.
Md., July 15, 1514, by not telling her that
he oniy hdone good heg and that she
did not learn that his other ieg wee e
tificlal until three weeks after their mar
rigs, was the reason gives for asking a
decree of divorce by Mrs. Ana BUl be
tore a master applointed to tike evi
dense Ins the tas.
' Chicago, Dec. 3.-Vootball caused fiftesa
dieathe during the 1515 season, wxitch
closed with Thankagiviag day gaeem so
tetgt iu aise:la hegs,
~eswe Etan g -.
-)
rnment Employes in Wa
Apologies to the Providence Sunday Joi
of the Sixty-fourti
lous increase in the cost of living
al observers of affairs in the Disti
an himsibimen k MuAs
pmadn is propsuUm tthe d ip
is. pesu-day sy stUdards.
ress promises to be a busy one, bu
:h the government has before it
LII over tie country.
| TelegrapheTip.
Danville, Ill.. Dec. &.-Samuel Green
wait, famous as a catcher and outfielder
of the Philadelphia AthleJcs in the late
sixties. is dead here. aged .
Garrison. N. Y.. Dec. 2.-A stray buck
deer which, when pursued, leaped to
death off a forty-foot ledge of rock in
Putnam Valley, near Garrison, has been
turned over to Game Warden J. A. Barry.
The deer was found on ground adjoiniag
the summer place of Rhinelander Waldo,
of New York City.
Richmond. Va., Dec. 3.-Mrs. Mary A.
Thomas, 82, said to have been the first
woman missionary from this country to
India, is dead at the home of her niece,
near here. She was the widow of the
Rev. David W. Thomas, of NIcholville,
N. Y.
Belfast. Me., Dec. 3.-Mrs. Caroline Ja
cobs Hunt, said to have been the old
est living graduate of Mount Holyoke Col
lege. is dead here today at the age of 91
years. She was a student at Mount Holy
oke under Mary Lyons. founder of the
college.
Chicago, Ill.. Dec. &.-Axel Hiln, who Is
being taken to New York from Salt Lake
City to stand trial on a charte of par
ticipating in the murder of Mrs. Eliza
beth Nichols. September 8, 19M5, made an
unsuccessful attempt to escape from the
county jail here.
Cambridge, Mass.. Dec. 3.-br. Charles
Pomery-Parker professor of Greek and
Latin at Harvard University, is dead to
day after a brief illness with pneumoni.
He was born In Boston In 185 and was
a graduate of St. Paul's School and Ox.
ford University.
Bedford, N. Y., Dec. .-Burglars using
a red hot poker, took a novel way of burn
ing a hole through the cash register in
Fenton Week's store, in Mount Kisco,
ei--Bedford. They fished out about I5
ha bills and change. They were unable to
dow some bags of silve which were tied
up, through the opening.
Bridgetlort, Conn.. Dec. 3.-ilckS about
by early traveler. at the Bridgeport rail
road station, a bundle of papers was final
ly picked up and found to be origlnal
land grants of the Stats of Georgia. Af
fixed to the documents were the offilial
seal and the signatures of Edward Tel
fair, who was governor generalisnd "one
mender of the militia thereof" in 173
Nanticoke, Pa.. Dec. .-Evan Ehans,
5f. and Peter Androcak,'22, 11ere insntly
killed and William J. Jonee was sri
omely injured in a myeterlous explods
lats yesterday in the new Loomis alS
asfnear here.
New York. Dec. .-An annual prise of
3I00'for the beet Uiterary production bya
Southerner has been estahblished by the
Southern Society of New York. Details
of the competition are snder ospidera
tio by this eirnittee: Dr. Jhn A,
IWyhth, Wilmu.m A. Batber end Weitee L
MoCerkie. 9
Nge York. Dec. 3.--Pollee Sergt. Petes
Byrnee felt unconscioa4 while bandili
the. crowd about the Waldorf-Astoria,
where thomni were welting to eatei
a gihetpse of thseiist .4i
- arn tha ~e
shington.
i Congress:
emphasizes a fact 4hat has long
ict of Columbia:
.f Gewensmt em
itace n s w..
t the facts in the case are easily
recedent a-plenty in the shape
HE WASHINGTON HERALD.
WILSONS IN PERIL
President and Wife Narrowly
Escape Auto Collision.
Prsident Wilson. accompanied by Mrs.
Wilson, narrowly escaped injury in an
automobile collision In Sixteenth street
northwest yesterday morning while going
to the Central Presbyterian Church. At
Sixteerth and Church streets a heavy
touring car almost collided with the Pres
idential car, turned aside and struck the
Secret Service car.
The touring car, which has not been
identified, was being driven westward in
Church street. The President's chauf
feur threw his gears into high speed and
jumped the car forward. as the driver of
the other car swung to the rear of the
Presidejial party. Smashed fenders and
hoods on The touring and service pars
was the only damage done.
The President and Mrs. Wilson were
slightly alarIed. according to bystand
ers. but smiled with relief when out of
danger. By the time the President reach
ed the church all trace of excitement had
vanished. He inquired for the safety of
the *rvice men.
MISS RA.TE W S BY 8,304.
Helena. Mont., Dec. &,-President Wil
son's plurality in Montana was 34.313, as
shown yesterday by the final canvass of
the official return&.
Henry L. -eyers, Docrat. received
a plurality of 12,2 votes over Charles N.
Pray, Republican, in the contest for Uni
ted States Senator. Miss Jeanette Ran
kin. Republican, polled 5,34 more votes
than Harry B. Mitchell, her Democratic
opponent for Congress. The official ma
jority for prohibition was k
"THE FUZZY BACES OUT."
Ebensburg, Pa., Dec. 3.'The fussy has
hacked out and does not want to get
married."
This brief note, penned oa the back
of a marriage license Issued to Joseph
Magera and Mary Halowich, both of
Portage, was the esnly explanation offered
by Magera when he returned the license
to Marriage License Clerk Tibbots~ here.
The license was issuad Ocober 35.
TOWN'S GLASS PLAIT BURNS.
Cumberland. Ed.. Dee, 2.-The plant of
the Lonaconing Guess Company, ereoted
by cilsn of Lmanoning at a east of
S.00 and employlng 20opeatives, burn
ed this morning It was well Jsred. The
big stack, the molds and the concrete
foundation are considered ispnjured and
wl be the nueleus for rebding.
DAlES VOTUW MAAA gALE.
Cepenhagen. Dee. i,-The plebiscite on
the sals of ills Dai West Indies to the
United States goveranst on Novem r
14, resulted in a majority In favor of s
retetio of he islad The govern
linent wIll . ps W Mng Matee
er .asssiat Masensaams
Fer Great Ocean Lsers
Pla ed te Fly U. S. Fal
a
New York. Dec. .-Four great tr
Atlantic liners of 0.0 tons and a spe
ot X knots will shortly be built for ser
vice under the American dag. fat
was forecast by the returnt . A. I
Franklin, president of the' Iaternasis
Mercantile Marine, on the Amaraan
liner St. LAouis today.
While Mr. Franklin would not sPecIi
ly announce the fact, it was learned t
his company is about to build four uh
slips In the Yards of the New Yor IP
building Company at Jamdeg, .J..
which waa recently purchased b a ccsn
.ny i whifh the International ercan
tile Marine is interested.
"When the American g o_ ent i n
ready to make arrangenen with us
that are proper," he said, will, and
are anxious to, rejuvenate American
LAne by building fast big commen
surate With the trade.
2009,000 WR4I$S
LOOK TO CAPITOL
Opening of Congress Brings
Underpaid Hope for Raise.
More than o00000 government employes
in the United States, 12.40 living in'the
District of Columbia. will turn to the
short session of the Sixty-fourth Congress
which opens at noon today for relief from
a life of bare existence which totally
inadequate government salaries enforce.
This relief Is offered by the Nolan S
day bill.
It seems probable thaethe House and
Senate will consider th2 advisability of
enacting a food embargo to reduce the
prohibitive prices for certain foodstuffs.
and already two Federal Investigations
to determine the cause of the high cost
of uing are under way, but no definite
step has been taken to aid thousands
of government employes. the majority of
whom are trying to support families on
less than 83 a day.
The Department of Justice has begun
an exhaustive Investigation into the high
cost of living. United States Diserict
Attorney George W. Anderson, at Bos
ton, has been placed in charge of the
probe and he has at his disposal the
services of all the secret service agents
of the department throughout the coun
try to determine definitely whether there
Is a criminal conspiracy to keep the food
stuffs prices at a high figure.
Three considerations will form the bag
for the Investigation.
First. it must be determined whether
high prices are the result of natural
economic conditions; SeCond. whether
[there have been any agreements or con
spirales among producers, cosasion
men or retailern. and thirLd. hsther the
great increase is due to a common. Bel
[fish Impulse to take advantage of the
present unusual situation. due to the war
in Europe.
While representatIves of the Federal
CONTINUED ON PAGE fOCr.
HEAD OF TWO HOMES
DUBBED BililiEST FOOL
Dr. Gordon Tells Congregation Devil
Does No Credit Business.
"There are many fools in the world.
but the biggest one i. the man who is the
head of two homes; the one legal. the
other illicit.
"As sure as men destroy virtue. it will
be paid for in like manner by the ones
they love and hold dear.
"The devil doesn't do a credit business.
To pay for what you buy from him.
'Lfts of men who wouldn't steal a
dollar would steal a girl's virtue."
These epigrams were spoken by Rev.
Dr. James L. Gordon. pastor of the First
Congregational Church. to an audience
that filled the church last night.
He reviewed his experiences in a great
department _ore In Philadelphla. where
'he wes employed when a youth, and told,
of sinister Intimacies between stenog
raphers and "higher-ups."
Dr. Gordon lamented that the entra:.-,
[of women into husiness hea caused im
morality to conspire with dishonesty in
wrecking the confidence of the business
w orld .
BUM, NAY 000i, DIES
AFTER HEROIC SWIM
Regularly Enlisted. Newfoundland Per
ishes Trying to Reach Ship.
Specsi to The Washingtos ia.
Boston, Mass.. Dec. 3.-Letters re
celved at the Charlestown navy yard tell
of the heroic death In Guantanamo Bay
of Bum, the only dog ever regularly
listed in the United States Navy FoS
year. Bum lived aboard the mine layer
San Francisco. Bum. a *big Newfound- I
land, enjoyed shore leave with others of
the San Francisco's crew when that ves
ael put into Guantanamo Bay recently.
During the shore leave sudden ordler.
came for the San Francisco to leave at
once and isum was left behhsd. When the
United States gunboat Eagle steamed Into
Guantanamo flay recently Btm was on
the shore an spied the vessel when It
was still thre fles of shore, justdrp
ping anchor.- I
The dog sprang into the water adi
the face of a heavy em swamn toward
the boat. An hoipr iater, exhausted and
hardly able to move him pawa. Bum wes
lifted on to the gunboat's deck. He died
a mInute afterward.
ICleveland. Dec. 3-Three boys are un
der arres# asma resuIt of a pdlice round
up last night and thin malamig in con
nection with autemobile badit raids of
the pat thr hswhich have reslt
ed in n robberiaes nd two fatal
shootins. The baja held are Albert
Pfabl. U jeans old; Dewey eaemnan. 1S.
and John Kelly. [S.
'Pettoe say the Iwo hslter have con
foamed to ateallitg an antanObile, which
ha. been recover'e4, eed to eumnerous
grat held-upe and -ar l~bbUea~s hut
PRESIDENT MAPS
SHORT PROGRAM
FOR CONGRESS
aIs Clark and Kitchin Into
Conference on Desired
Lgslation.
ILWAY LAW PUT FIRST
renopianous Next. wih Dam. Cm.
servabon and Vocaional Ed.
cation on th6 L6
On the eve of the opening at Cma
President Wilson caled Speanhr Cbw
and Claude Kitchin. Deseerate Beme
eader. into conference yesterday after
ioon at the White House and outfued
the le tion he dlru.
The J=edent haded them a writo
nemorlndum containIng fie reo-n"
itiona.
Flret and formeet were rufroad egis
ation and appropriatioo billa.
The question of the high cost of living
was not mentioned in the Preident'
;ehedule.
It is predicted that the raffoad and
Ippropriation bills will consunee the en
Ire time of the short seseion.
President Wilson is mostearnes to W
lestre that the railroad eltailes be die
posed of. but already there is fear that
the Republicans Vil use obstrucive tae
Ice. The fact that there Is no elotmon
rule in the Senate leads to apprehangs
that some Republican Senators may talk
the railroad bills to death. . ft is mis
the main reason for Republican oppes
tion will be based on a hope that their
party will control the deetinba of the
next House.
Canada's Law ae MedeL
Tie President intimated that thae
ihould be but one railroad bill, and It
ras understood he was still ~ct inlt
wnt upon legislation providing for Inves
Imation of possible strikes. The bill wil
Probably be modeled after the McKen.
tie-King or Canadian disputes act.
There Is bound to be a bitter fight em
:his measure. Organised labor is adaman
:ine in its stand against such legislation.
Congressmen representing industrial dis
triete--eome Denocrats as well as moon
Retutlicans-will use all their efforte
against Its passage, even though the
President says a situation ar to that
if August, 196 must never again terrify
the American people.
The other measures the President in
lided in memnoranden, besides the
railroad and appropriatine bills. *ee the
general dam. conservation and vocational
Nueationa1 bIl Ne indicated that the
live were all he thought could possibly
be considered at this sem1s. under any
circurnstances.
Ceast-e-Livw ine.
But It Is evident that the American peo
ple are aroused over the high cost of ".v
hn and that some consideration may
have to be gIven by Congress to the pree
rut exorbitant prIme. 'Te publio urn
timent that some relief should be af
fordea cannot well be Ignored at the
presert session, say some Congressmen.
The Nolan bill for a minimum wage for
government employes has many sup
porters and a strong fight is predicted
for its passage at this session.
Outride of the District appropriation
bill and the Nolan bill. It is very urlike
ly that any other legislation affecting the
District will receive consIderation. al
though advocates of prohibition declare
they will do all In their power to pass
prohihition bills for the District and na
tion.
KAISER NOW EXPECTED
TO CONTINUE BATlINi
Cermany Planning New and More In
tense Warfam.
By WILLIAM B4YARD U5A .
IinternaslossI News Servie.
i1t lin t' i , 4 wiret, ]1, . 11ec. Z.
Fo far os 1 an k rr Ihe opinlions of the
Ge;rmain gvenment it does not believe
that a v"esatiot of the war is likely In
many ineth t., come and is reparing
o wage- th -nte-t with fiercer energy
ihan erer before
Thte chor:F of protest from English
Tatentei. snd newsIapers against peace
w se m1, to havo convinced the Ger
an fnvernment that the struggle must
tontinue.
To neutrat nbsrvers possessed with
rerta ipportunities to learn the progress
of eve'Es ad trend of opinion in the
ententee coutlries. however. the Impres
sion is forc0d hote every day with new
certainty that ih. ent--nte powers are
thoroughly sick of the war.
Trallic across the .- .rth Sea totally
ceased three we-ks agi, ince which tia"
the north of Eur-i- ha., been without
direct communica im with the Island.
The London lIl Chronicle remarks:
"Who is conducti: a blockade? Who
is controlling the North Se&? We or
Germany?'
The American Embassy in Berlin hue
been without mail for many days. but a
pouch is expected to arrive via Prans
and Switseranid.
WOXAN XUICTS MERCHANTB.
unkhannock, Pa.. Dec. .-Buelnese
mh of Tunkhannock are anxious to ine
a clever, well-dressed and very pistty
woman of aboti 35 yearu, who gave vari
otis names, but who left town with on
oiderable money obtained by forgery.
The womnun reprenented herself to be
the wife of a well-known Auburn farmer.
tin the strength of his eame she got a
cheek caaheds To othes mesehemin de
represented herself to be the aughe et
other well-kinown persins in Wy
County. She got checks eeed by all ot
them. She disappeared and no traoe of
her has been found.
NAS 100 W1T I 3('liL
Salem, Greg.. ieo. a.-Among evlden
the Supreme Ceet wI "-Mde inO
case of Nanscy A. Hill aguinst 11Sd 3.
Campbell, appealed from Prtland. is s.
whisky flak containg about lit bed
The piaintit ineks to annul a lease en
an apnartment houms, eed the ~heo me
of er mes M he -
