THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING. DECEMBER 4, 191G.
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 199
STEEL CIRCLE
TIGHTENS DOWN
ON BUCHAREST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Thu enelrrlinir mnrpmpnt i if the
Teutonic allies draws closer toward
Jtucharest, although the Rumanians'
are stiffening their defense.
Thp Teutons have crossed the I
Atgechu river, lint Petrograd and
Hucharest assert, that southwest of
the capital the Russians ant! Ruman
ians have force I the retirement of
tho Teutons and taken prisoners ifiid
looty. Berlin says that here a Ru
manian force was thrown back with
beavy casualties.
Hard fighting continues along the
border of Rukowina, with both sides
claiming the advantage.
i n none ot the other fronts has
there been any (treat infantry activity.
An attack by the entente forces north
west of Monastir Saturday was put
down, according to Berlin. Italians
are claiming an advance of ;M0 meters
ever a front of two-thirds of a mile
n fie Carso sector of the Austin
Italian front, a maneuvre which
straightened out the Italian line.
The French transport Karnak has
I cen sunk near Malta bv a German
submarine, according to an announce
ment by the German admiralty. The
transport is said to have been loaded
with troops bound for S.iloniki.
(wing to the acuteness of the
political crisis in Great Britain.
Premier Asiuith announces that he
will advise the king to consent to a
reconstruction of the government.
Cnoffi.tal advices from Athens are
hat the fighting between Turks and
entente troops has r"ascd ami that
the entente troop3 have been ."ent
back to Piareaus.
Russians Advance
PFTROGRAD. Dec. 3, (via London..
Russian troops have arrived south
if Bucharest and engaged in battle
to face the Rumanian capital, the
war iffice announces. The German
and Bulgarian troops have been com
pelled to retire. The Russians and
Rumanians have taken prisoners and
booty. Further successes for the
Russians on the Trans1vania front
a! jo are reriortcd.
Rumanian Capital Chanqed
LONDON. Dec. 3. A Renter dis
patch from Jassv, In northern Ru
mania, near the Russian frontier, says
that the Rumanian government now
has en established there. Parliament
will r2 convened shoitlv.
Charles Shows Authority
AMSTERDAM. Dec. (via Lon
don). A Vienna dispatch bns an-no-:in-ed
that Kmperor Charles has
relieved Baron Roman. Austro-Hun-cariaii
foreign minister of the port
folio of the ministry of finance, which
be held provisionally, and has ap
pointed Prince Conrad von Holienlobe
in his stead.
French Transport Sunk
BP" HI. IN. Dee. S I by w ireless to
Sr-lville). The sinking bv a German
f"ibnn-ine of a 6 000 ton French trans
port filled with troops was announced
today by th admiraHv.
The announcement follows:
"A German submarine on November
near Malta, sank the French
t-an.""ort steamer Karnak. 6.000 tons.
The Kamal- was crowded with troops
!"rtjred for Srilonlki."
New Rumanian Chief
rjFP.I.IN. T". 3 (hy wirelcs ; to
Tuekerton N. J.) "General Tuelff
von Tochel" L'r.d Weideribach has
l"n rroointed chi"f of the military
j.Hminis'.ra'ion "f Rumania" snys an
offici-,,1 statement today which con
cludes: "Several departments nre tinder he
command of Oc neral Tuelff. The
memb'-rs of these departments partly
belong to others of the central powers.
The cultivation of the country will he
carried out according to the prin
ciples, previously established, which in
part correspond to the necessities oi
Romania, 'tnd ne In port, on arcnui.t
cif the necessities of the cen'r.il
powers."
Athens Firinq Ceases
ARIS. Dec 3. The firing at
Athens diminished during tho night
r.nd now hns censed. avs a Mat as
dippatch. The entente troops have
been sent bark to Piraeus.
The Cre"k government has offered
x mountain batteries to Admiral Da
Fournet. hut the entente ministers
however, declared that it is no longer
merely a ouestion of the cession of
war mateiinLc but th.it reparation
mu b mde corresponding wiln
ti e c-si -it - of the assault on the al
lied 'roops.
TIir.M Dec. 2. (via London.
I". '.IThe entente powers bate
agreed 10 remove their representatives
tvho
i.oQn ; ,.,...i ,. ti,
ireeK post and telegraph service.
DCMINCIANS LIKE KNAPP
Renubllcsn A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. St. Captain
Knapp. the American naval officer,
who proclaim. t military government
In the Dominican republic, last week,
reported to the navy department to
day that h's administration was being
received with enthusiasm hy th Is
landers. ALLIES PLACE AN
ALL GREEKSHIPPIfJG IN F
Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
PARIS, Dec. 3 An
embargo has
been placed on all Greek shipping in
.- , i,i .
........ uou oioer pons or rrie enret,:e to ratify It. Moreover, the king de
allies In consequence of the re ent dared he was unabl to guarantee
events In Athens. that his wishes wo.'id be respected.
The Matin states that Ath. s Ro- Ci tiseipjently at the expiration of the
n.anos, Greek minister to France, has time tor th" delivery of the firrt lot
sent his resignation to his government, of. g ins. Vice Admiral Du Fournet.
on account of the aggression of Greek having received information that
troops against the allies' forces. trouble was imminent, disembarked
The Unas correspondent at Athens troops. "Owing to these conditions and
tilcrraphs an ac'-ouru ol recent events In consequence of what tins taken
in Greece, beginning with King Con- place," the dispatch concludes, "the al-
stunt.ne's offer last month to deliver lied governments have decided to take
ro trie allies tne greiicr part or the
.artillery and munillons in Greece on
RUSSIA'S CLAIM TO
CONSTANTINOPLE IS
TALK OF CONTINENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Dec. 3. An event sur-
f passing in far reaching importance the
actual military operations ol tne war,
comes today in the public announce
ment by the new Russian premier,
Alexander Trepoff, that by an agree
ment concluded in I HI 5. and subse
quently adhered to by Italy, the allies
definitely established Russia's right to
Constantinople and the straits.
Simultaneously, while the fate of
Hucharest is still hanging in the bal
ance, comes the news that Russia is
making heroic efforts to turn the t,ide
of events in Rumania in addition to
exerting vigorous pressure against von
Falkenhayn in Moldavia, where the
Russians have gained a footing at Ker
I ilia ha.
The new Russian effort is visible,
south of Bucharest, where it is making
an important attack on Field Marshal
von Mackensen's rear according to the
Russian official report, with some suc
cess, the Germans and Bulgarians hav
ing been driven from Tzomana, and
Gostinari.
These Russian attacks on the two
extreme flanks of the central forces,
may, if successfully prosecuted, change
the complexion of the Rumanian cam
paign, as there is no indication as tet
that the central powers have succeeded
in cutting off any considerable portion
of the Rumanian armies.
Acrording to the German report, the
German-Bulgarians are steadily press
ing towards the capital. In the Argechu
valley they have crossed the river and
have outflanked and defeated a Ru
manian force which had attempted to
advance southwest of Bucharest.
A semi-official Rumanian statement
has been received by wireless to the
effect that before the commencement
of the war Bucharest was deprived of
the character of a fortress and that
when the danger of occupation pre
sented itself, steps were taken for the
evacuation of the city by the military
elements. This would seem to indbfite
that the Rtimanias are fighting to de
lay their enemy and secure the safe re
tirement of their armies.
The Premier's Statement. i
PKTROGRAD, Dec. 'i, tvia London,!
Dec. 3.) The Semi-official News agen-
cy says that in the Duma today Pre
mier i report read a proclamation an-
nouncing officially that an agreement '
concluded hy Russia, France and ireat 1
Britain In lfi.i and later approved by !
Italy "established in definite manner j
the rgtu of Russia to the straits or
Constantinople."
Premier Trepoffs announcement is. Tomorrows calendar of forty cases,
quoted as follows: specially assigned for argument. Is
"For more than a thosand years Rus-j unusually long. It includes the con
sia has been reaching southward to- rn ssion.il contempt esse sgainst
ward a frc outlet on rhe open sea. Il'nlled States Attorney H. Snowden
This dream now is ready for rcaliza- j Marshall, of New York. West Virginia
titin. . . i'nra the beginning of the , crises involving legality of the flitted
war, wishing to spars human lives-arid ! Mine Workers' e rgnnization. an irri -sufering.
we and our allijs did iur j gat'on suit betwen Wyoming End
utmost to restrain Turkey from par- I r'o'iirad", the so-called railway mail
ticipation. in hostilities. Turkey re-i pay "divisor'" case, involving l iri.lii, re
ceived formal asurances guaranteeing j imo in cl.'ims against the government
her, in exchange fur neutrality, the in-j and other Important litigations,
tegrity of her territory and indepen- i A score of derisions from among
dence and also conferring upon her r.earlv one hundred cas-5 t:nder ad-
certain prbyillgcn and advantages.!
These efforts were vain. Turkey sur- j
reptitously attacked us.
"We then concluded an agreement
with our aili"S, which established the
right of Russia to the straits and Con- :
stantinoplf. Russians should know for
thev are shedding blood, and in accord ;
with our allies, announcement of this!
agreement is made today from this
tribune. I
"Absolute agreement on this point is
firmly established among Tit- allies,
Penulilican A
LONDON. Dec
Amsterdam sayg
liarn has sent the
P. Leased Wire
3. A dispatch from
that Kmperor Wil- j
following telegram i
to Dr. von Rethmann-Hollweg, the
the I
I
nnmn nninintm inninTinnr i
WbliUUUb rWIANiit
GERMANY ILL II TRE MR
I
...menu tm.nccu.ir: a wireless message to the Rev.
"Your report of the pacsin? of the i rnarlpi4 s. MurFarland. general sec
btll for national civilian servi e fills rr.,arv f the yrel Council of the
me with great delight. My heart iest ; churches of Christ In America. The
thanks are due for the cooperation of . m(1!f,aKB ,.ume through the German
the imperial government and the rm(,assv
reifhstag. sustained by a patriotic! Mr ".MacFarland addressed an in
spirit. The German people thus again (,,,rv n(n, ,ject to Professor
have shown firmly that they are re- I iM.)BKmar,n Brveral weeks ago. Pro-
. . . ' ' .........v. i
for the I
victorious accomplishment of the ri-
tense of the Fatherland and its power
The people, filled with such uniform
determination, will, with God's gra
cious assistance, maintain against ev
erybody Its place among civilized na- j
tions of the world, which it gained by I
intelligence, Industry end mora'
strength, and cannot be corrpiered.
May God reward nil our readiness for
sacrifices and grant that the good
work will be successful."
Ei
E
f. .!, , , ,.
condition that he miRht preserve neu -
u:i!''
This agreement of the king was not
" in , . .-I iiiii.-.'i i hi-, 1 1 neu
energetic measures to obtain all
aration due."
rep-
and there is no doubt that after she
has obtained sovereign possession of
a free passage into the Mediterranean,
Russia will grant freedom of naviga
tion for the Rumanian flag, which now,
not for the first time, floats in battle
side by side with the flag of Russia.
"I thought It my duty not to conceal
from you the difficulties and sacrifices
which we have still to endure in order
to bring the present war to a victorious
conclusion, but no difficulty and r?o
sacrifice will stop Russia and her brave
alllef on the path of reconstruction and
consolidation.
"A bright future will be the heritage
of all nations fighting for a Just and
holy cause.
"Our heroic troops and fleet are do
ing their great work without pause.
The first task which falls on the rest
of us is to devote all our strength and
every hour of our time to productive
work. Russia needs the common labor
of everyone, based on regular distribu
tion, according to individual capability.
(Continued on I'age Two)
VILLA ABANDONS CHIHUAHUA
Request Will Be
Made to Advance
theAdamson Case
Reoub!iCn A. P. Leased Wirel
WASHINGTON'. lec. r,.-Steps to
secure an earlv decision upon cori
I stitutionality of the Adamson eight-
Ihour law in the lest case of the
Missouri. Oklahoma and Gulf rall
, roads, v. Ill dominate interest In -the
supreme court's session tomrorow. A
motion by Solicitor General Davis
with concurrence of the railroads'
will ask the court to assign an earlv;
date for hearing of the government
at, peal from the decision of Federal
Judge Hook, of Kansas t'lty. Mo.,
holding the iaw unconstitutional.
n in cons! lerd likelv that Chief,
Justice White will immediately an
nounce a date for argument.
visement are exported tomorrow. j
Amtmt them ate tne so-called R -ad- t
ing and Lehigh Va'.lev railroads "coal
trust" suits, two suits testing the
Massachusetts ami Texas corporation .
laws, a ase fchetrnan law proceedings
ag-ilr,3t the New lork (
Carpenters'
taliditv ofj1'
union, cases testing the
"blue skv'- srxck selling. New Jersey';
automobile license, and the Weloi
Kenton laws and two involving In
trpret::ion
act.
of the Mann white slave
Arbitration Idea Gaining
NEW YORK. Dec. 3. That the
"idea of arbitration" is constantly'
gaining ground In Germany Is the!
.nirilr.n .if Prnfoiunr ..Hilf 1 luiawm-aiin '
f tne IllvPrKjty , Berlin, expressed
ressor ieissmann answerer! in
part
follows
"The 'question raised by Lord Rryre.
(Whether, after the i pise or this war,
arrangements could be made by which
i peace-loving nations should pledge
i themselves to desist from any attack
with arms and submit all matters of
(Continued on Page Two)
Giant Forest To
Be Owned By the
U.S. Government
Sepublicar A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 3.-Ciant for
est, the privately owned tract of the
, world's
largest trees in the heart of
I Sequoia National park.
Is about to pass
iniu in e iianc.s in lot- Koveioioe.il
' ,... ,.,.,, ii,, heiween the in.
I terlor denartment and the national neo-
graphlc society
Congress, during the last session, ap
propriated (50,00(1 to purchase the land,
but the owners refused to sell unless
adjacent holdings valued ut $20,000
weer taken at the same time. An op
tion on the entire tract was secured,
and today the board of managers of
the geographic society appropriated the
$20,000 to make possible the Immediate
payment of $70,000. The Interior de
partment officials sought tho co-operation
of the society because It was re
alized that the option probably would
expire before additional money could
be secured from congress.
1 1 CLERKS ASK
1151 TO HUE
111 RATES RAISED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DKNYKR. Dec. 3. A telegram to
President Wilson asking him to sup
port a petition to be presented to
congress requesting authority for rail-
; roads to raise all rates sufficiently to
i cover a substantial advance In wages
of one and one-half million railroad
employes not affected by the Adam
I son law. was sent to Washington to
night bv the executive committee of
I the local organization of non-union
railroad employes.
According to the telegram, framed
at a meeting today, the new organi
sation is to be known as the National
I Association of Railway Km doves,
land the plan contemplates the cir
culation of a tietition in every con
I grcssiom.il district in the country.
Kmphasi.ing that the matter of a
, watft Increase is the sole purpose of
the association, the telegram rays it
will "in no wise he a union or menace
jto the peace and prosperity of the
coiur rtV
(Penub'lcan A.
Jl'ARI.X, Mex
P. Leed Wire
Dec. . Can-arisM
forces were again in control of rhi- I
! huahua
City todav and Villa had fled
to tne mountains to the west
f the
today
c m-
capital city, it was .uiv,uned
by General Francisco Gonzales
mander of the brigade here.
I General Carlos ozuria. trie cavalry
I I orn-nander w ho has been charging the
I " l ei lines at Nombre ile Dio and
the northern suburbs of Chihuahua
City, succeeded In entering the city
ytnerday evening at 7 o'clock and
has re-e.ta!lished telegraphic corn
t munlcation w ith the UrUer. He made
brief official report to General Gun-
REPORTED HIT
Bfllll STARTS
FDR TRE HILLS
za'e here, w ho is his suoerior officer. M'"-111 la"1 ""1. '"e Jury tailing to
and then proceeded Into the hear; f'gree: the peconri began October 16
the city on an exploring expeci.tion
rind was expected to re ort by tele
graph late tonight or early tomorrow
on the present conditions in the cap
ital, the losses to iith sides and the
fate of the Americans and other for
eigners In the city.
General Francisco Murguia. the Car
ra ii7.li commander who has been mov
ing siowlv northward from Torreon.
was also reported to hate emered the
f'ty todav after hatiuir defeated the
Ilia column thirty miles south t f mf nt 'ltr!esi in the first cases, ad
hihuahua Citv Thl l.ntrle wM.-h ! milted ha .ing profiled to the extent of
l,n,k ,,., i-, ,, oi . ...
have completely routed the Villa forces'
In that district and to have ent them
toward the west In which direction
Villa and his staff are said to have
gone ctri special trains.
Six trair.s entered Ch'h.iahua City
today from the south and were be
lieved here t have carried the re
mainder of Murgitla s column, his field
equipment and heavy artillery. Tele
graphic comrnunu ation has l.een re-
I established w ith Torreon and Mexico
I'tly from the Chihuahua state capital
and the railroad has P.-en repaired and
trains are opiating as far south as
Jimlnex, It was announced here.
Only the most meagre details of
fighting which resulted in the reoccu
pation of the capital have been re
ceived over the federal telegraph line
which was operating all clay to the
military headquarters in f 'h'huatiua
City from General Gonzales' head- !
epiarters here.
It was helieved hy Carrnn7.a offl- i
cers here that Villa left some t'tiif
yesterday for the west over the Mex
ico Northwestern railroad, following
ithe two trains of loot which he sent
west after capturing the town and
I looting many of the stores, according
to the reports brought to the border by
refugees. Many of his men were sain
I to have been left behind when the
trains left for the Guerrero district
where Villa and mapy of his bandit
leaders have made their homes for
"-.any years. It was reported here to
day that many of the Villa followers
who were left in the city were par
Soried by the Carranza officers when
it was learned they had been Im
pressed Into the bandit leader's service
and had fought against their will.
Nothing was learned today of the
foreigners who were known to have
been i:i the city when the Carranza
troops re-entered the city, but Car
ranza officials here say they have little
doubt these foreigners were In hiding
and escaped with their lives. Neither
had anything definite been learned to
day of the present whereabouts of
General Jacinto B. Trevlno and his
command which left Chihuahua City
Monday. He was reported to have
made a junction with General Mur
gula at Horensilas, south of Chlhua-
jhua City but nonq of the brief reports
received here mentioned rns name,
''arranza officers here are confident,
however, that he escaped with the
greater part of his command from the
city.
General ' rranclsco Gonzales an
nounced late today Ile would go to
Chihuahua City with a part of hts
brigade as soon as a train could be
arranged. 'He will go to make a per
sonal Investigation of the situation
there and to arrange for resuming
traffic between that city and the bor
der. His forces have been increased
by the arrival of approximately SOU
troons from the Casas Grander) district
which arrived early today. Practically
all of these troops were mounted. The
fear of Villa comjng to Juarez has
apparently passed.
Six Carranza soldiers from the rem
nants of General Trevlno' commands
were seen on the streets here today
with their ears cut. They wore band
ages about their heads and pieces of
(Continued on Pag Two)
PRESIDENT OILS THE .
- MACHINERY FOR NEW
SESSION OF CONGRESS
Peo-Jblicsti A. P. Leased W're
WASHINGTON. Dec. 3.--President
Wilson home again today, began work
preparatory to the opening of congress
tomorrow.
The president desires to devote him
self almost entirely to conferences with
congressional leaders this week in an
effort to get the legislative machine
started promptly. Speaker Clark and
Major.ty Leader Kitchin of the house
were at the White House tonight and
Senator Kern, majority leader of the
senate, will be called into conference,
later in the week. No final plans have
been made for delivering a special
message on the high cost of living to
congress, but Mr. Wilson is understood
to favor taking such a step when the
opportunity titters.
No arrangements have been made for
changing the new cabinet schedule un
der which the meetings are held Tues
day and Friday afternoons instead of in
tl.e mornings.
Tuesday Mr. Wilson will follow his
custom of going before congress per-
Six Defendants
Not Guilty In
Land Fraud Case
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO. Dec. 3. The sec-, tails of the railroad legislative program
ond attempt of the Coiled States gov- with the house leaders. He merely de
crement to obtain the conviction of six Rr(,d to get in touch with them on the
defendants in the so-called Oregon subject. He spoke brieflv regarding
lat.d fraud cases, came to an end here , other Important measures among them
oday iih the discharge of the jury , ,ne e,t in to permit domestic cor
In too federal court when ir. reported : rations to maintain collective foreign
tailure to agree in their case. Three , p!lin(f aKencie!f. ,t,e corrupt practices
verd e , w,re reported late last night. , hi. onrt conservation measures. Pro
It. Det.armo Urn Angeles real estate . f, emharKO legislation and issues
man was found guilty, the formal raisp(1 , the h h mM f ,ivj wer(
. harge bemg conspiracy to use the' mf.llli((nod. ,n the opinion of the
man. to further a fraudulent scheme. however, the subjec t is
Liv ... v i; . 1"ram'Ii!" "'" bound to demand attention of congress.
l . , i 1M'rr' ; lJ", WUhin a few davs the president pro-
gudty 1 m" poses to talk with senate leaders re-
The Jury failed to establish the guilt arding the legislative program but the
or innocence of Franklin P. Hull and ! c,'nf,'r"r"? probably will not be held
Norman H. Cook. San Francisco at- ! unt" UeT nPJtlas "'vered his address
tornev. unit A .1 it t. i ! to congress Tuesday. Senator Kern,
real Estate man The .it r. trie,'
Jointly. Their first trial was com-!
and was compacted yesterday.
The first indictments in the Oregon! and a full attendance of congress to
land fraud cases were returned in 1 J 14. ' morrow is assured.
nine convictions following. Fight oth
ers ind:cte, hy the federal grand Jury
here July 25 last, nre to tie tried after
tne tirst or tne tear.
i ne government aiieges norneseeKers
have been mulc ted out of hundreds of
thousands of dollars through frsuriu -
ieni locai.on or seiners on rauroau
land grants In Oregon, one govern-
i Jljr imiO
Judge Maurice T. Dooling sat in the
ln ;" mrn. Lniieci states uistrict u
'orney Clarence U Reames
I ''"'. Ore., prosecuted.
of Port-
AFTER FIVE
GDMBuT SDMME
nepubPcar A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN,. Dec. .1, (by wireless to
Tuckerton, N. J.) "After five months
of the bloodiest of combats." says the
Overseas News Agency, "the Somme
offensive at no place has advanced
beyond ten kilometers. This success
was attained In July, south ot the
Somme. Then the l-Ycnch conquered
I .a Maisonette. Since this time, the
offensive has ceased at this place.
No further advance could be made.
"North of the Somme the advance
was slower but steadier. On July 1".
fighting was going on about Contal
maison. After sanguinary battles the
British, assisted by the French, fin
all;. succeeded in Septemlier in ad
vancing as far as tne French, during
the first days In July. The (Jcrmans
have halted all further advances.
The recent insignificant gains
terrain cannot be measured hy kilo
meters but by meters. of course,
through a big concentration attack
Mexican Supreme
Court May Be
Appointive
r Republican A. P. Leased Wire
QI'KRKTARO, Mex., Dec. 2. It is
learned that one of the amendments
to the Mexican constitution will pro
vide for the appointment by the execu
tive of supreme justices, instead of
their popular election. Appointments
will be subject to conf irnuviion by con
gress. General Carranza Insists upon an In
dependent form of government for
municipalities. He also expressed his
desire for reform of the divorce laws
and for universal suffrage.
General Carranza 's recommendations
have been supplemented by numerous
proposals from delegates, tine of these
Is that female suffrage be granted only
to self-supporting nnd unmarried wom
en. It also is suggested that the status
of army officers be changed and that
those who become active In politics be
compelled to renounce their military
rank definitely.
ICR T
sonally to read his annual message.
Wednesday he will entertain William
.1. Bryan and Mrs. liryan at lunch in
the White House and Thursday night
he will give a dinner In honor of Vance
C. McCormick, chairman of the demo
cratic national committee, to which
have been invited members of the dem
ocratic and progressive campaign com
mittees. The visit of Mr. McCormick to Wash
ington is expected to he marked by the
appointment of a chairman of the In
auguration committee. Active plans
for the inauguration will be started
then.
Very soon after congress convenes,
the president will make nominations to
the tariff committee, the shipping board
and the board created by congress to
administer the workmen's compensa
tion law for federal employes.
Speaker Clark and Representative
Kitchin, majority leader of the house,
assured President Wilson at a White
House conference tonight that they
would do all they could to hasten the
passage of railroad legislation at the
short session of congress which begins
tomorrow.
The president summoned the house
leaders to discuss the legislative pro
pram and to secure the cooperation in
expediting imirortant measures. He
asked that supplemental railroad legis
lation be given precedence over all oth
rr general legislation. The president
asked the house leaders if they thought
there would le time for enactment of
new railroad laws before March 4.
Roth believed there would be.
Speaker Clark reminded the presi
dent that congress would have to pay
strict attention to business and asked
him to help at the outset, to eliminate
the iikiimI tu'ii npc-k' holiilv rerettH
i president Wilson did not discuss de-
majority leader, will arrive tomorrow in
time for the opening of the new sea-
sion.
I Scores of memners of both houses
I reached Washington today and tonight
SOLDIER DROWNED
fReDublican A. P. Leased Wirel
1 Kl. PASO Tevas Dec "Private
, stanlev D. Roeart, of Company G.
j Thirty-second Michigan infantry, was
; round dead In the Rio Grande river
near the bridge to Mexico here todav.
He had met death by driwning,
"oroncr J. M. Driver announced.
Private Bogart was an actor liefore
joining the Michigan guard, his com
manding otflcer stated. He had been
missing since October IS. He enlisted
from Muskegon. Michigan.
S OF BLOODY '
BATTLE HflS NOT
can push back tne defenders as
Isolated and narrowly limited places,
such as the British did on the Ancre
in November. Not one of their oh
Jcts. hewever, was attained. No
body, not even on, the entente side,
believes anv longer that the German
front can be broken.
"The great offensive which has cost
the western powers Mih.OIjO to 90U.0OO
men. has been stifled in blood and
mud. The battle on the Somme was
"tarted with gigantic fresh armies,
with war machines and "the ammuni
tion of two parts of the world, will
continue in history as the heavies:
entente defeat. It means a Gallipoli
on the .'ont'.nenl.''
To Permit Loans
rARlS. Dec. 3. Government decrees
, l will be published tomorrow authoriz-
ins in- nmno .71 eniiicilUA, UJUlin
and Marseilles to contract loans in
th I'nited States. Fac-h municipally
will he permitted to isue $2ii.0i0.((0 in
bonds to bear interest at the rate of
ix per cc.t for three years.
W I N ts i n
TO INVESTIGATE FOOD PRICES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire?
ALBANY. N. V.. Dec. The ap
pointment of a committee of five,
under the ?hairmanship of George W.
Perkins, to Investigate the causes of
the hiijh cost of living and to recom
mend such legislation as may result
In lower prices of food through
economical distribution, was announc
ed by Governor Whitman today.
"For years past," Governor Whitman
said todav, "the increasing cost of
living has been a subject of great
growing importance, and has perhaps
become of first importance to the
people of our state.
"The legislature this winter should
lake up the whole problem In a broad,
conservative manner. J have decided
ALLIES AGIST
CHINESE LOAN
FROM TRE . S
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 3. The Brit
ish, French and Japanese ministers at
Peking, It became known here today,
are supporting the bankers of their
countries In protests to China against
the ta.OOO.imo loan arranged by that,
government with a Chicago bank.
Members of the former quituple group
complained recently in Peking against
the new American loan on the ground
that it violated the agreement of l'.H'-',.
The information todav that the
bankers are being supported by their
governments caused surprise at both
the state departments and the Chinese
legation, neither of which had official
confirmation.
It is explained, however, that prac
tically all loans or financial arrange
ments with t'hina are liable to som
sort of complaint by other interested
parties, and that in the present in
stance every care was taken not to
violat-; previous agreements. Section
17 of the agreement which is alleged
to have been violated, refers, it is
pointed out, to loans based on the salt,
tax. while the present loan was se
cured by the tobacco and wine taxes,
and is for industrial purposes. There
fore, it is not felt here that there is
any sood basis for protest, especially
as. with the coming of the Kuropean
war, the uuintuple Jrroup virtually
was destroyed through the withdrawal
of f Ierman bankers and the inability
of the others to meet many requests
for loans.
The present loan Is said to have
been over-subscribed three times be
fore the books were closed, and it is
thought practically certain that a.
second will follow shortly. The
Peking parliament, in approving this
transaction, authorized American loans
to a total of J'lO.'MiO.'iOO. which has
been the amount understood to be de
sired by China.
N. Y.WER'S
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Dec. 3. Detective head
quarters announced tonight that they
had arrested a man who has admitted
that he represented himself as James
W. Osborne, a New York lawyer, in
escapades with Miss Rae Tanaer, as a
result of which misrepresentations
Osborne was sued by her for $."0.0o0
in March 1S15.
The man arrested gave the name of
Charles H. Wax. and questioned by
federal and city officials admitted that
he had used the name of Oliver Os
borne In the escapades that resulted in
the suit against the New York attor
ney. Wax consented to return to New
York and will leave here tomorrow in
custody of a postoffice official. Wax
had t.een living here and was known
as Frank Burk. He was arrested at his
a partment.
Wax told of meeting Mres Tar.-er
October 1. 1914 through a flirtation. He
met her frequently after that, he said,
and was surprised after an acquaint
anceship of several months to read in
a newspaper of a suit against the law yer
Osborne.
"The story told of the mysterious
Oliver Osborne." Wax said, "and I de
cided to go to my namesake and help him
out of the scrape. The next morniug I
went to his office but he was not there
but his law partner gave me his home
address, and I went out to Broadway
and Seventy-second street. 1 met his
wifeand assured her that her husband
was not the Mr. Osborne mixed up
with the girl. 1 met linn the same day
and gave him several letters the girl
had given me and made an appoint
ment to meet him the next day. I did
not keep this because I got frightened
and also was ashamed to go on the
w itness stand and tell of my relations
with her."
Wax was well dressed and the apart
ment in which he was arrested was
expensively furnished. He declared he
would be glad to go to New York to
remove the cloud from James Osborne's
reputation.
He told W. G. Swain, postoffice in
spector from New Y'ork and the local
oficials that he was a graduate of an
eastern university, and at one time a
regimental quartermaster in the I'ni
ted States army, Twenty-eight infan
try, receiving his disharge in 1H04. He
gave a detailed statement of alleged
adventures with Miss Tanzer including
a trip to Plainf ield, N. .1., by which the
attention of federal officials was
brought into the case.
Federal officials also asserted Wax
was wanted on charges of swindling
women, and that his victims numbered
between 200 and 300 women, whose
(Continued on Page Two
EE
to appoint a committee to assist the
executive and the legislature. in in
vestigating and preparing such recom
mendations and legislation as may
tend to bring about a reduction of the
cost of foodstuffs to the consume!'
through efficient and economic or
gsnlzatlon without loss in revenue to
the producer."
Women Organized
NEW YORK, Dec. 3. An organbia
tion of housewives through which
every consumer in this city may be
reached "whenever it appears neces
sary to establish a boycott on articles
of food,' will be formed by January
1. it was announced tonight by Joseph
HartitTan. commissioner of weights
and measures,
DOUBLE LAIRS
m OF BARS
