Oregon IIlst ,
wnu 0i
'Ashland Grows While Uthla Hows'
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
ASHLAND. OREGON MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1916
VOL. XLI
NUMBER 50
Enders' Ticket
Now Complete
Winter Stops
Land Ciassiiication
Anniversary Play , Milner Goes to
Children's Books
Exhibit at Library
Turkey Day Game
Goes To Medford
At H. S. Friday I Overland Factory
Ashland
Tidings
It appears that Enders now has his
ticket completed and Is ready to take
over the city of Ashland on Decem
ber 19. From reliable reports It
stands as follows:
For mayor, C. B. Lamkin.
Council, First ward, S. B. Stoner.
Council, Second ward, J. N. Den
nis. Council, Third ward, W. W. Cald
well. City Attorney, J. A. Lemery.
Chief of Police, J. 0. Rlggs.
VnAnra lu nlV ol(l DOlitiCal fOX.
Tie evidently believes in a frameup : , -i i" i
that will catch the voters coming and propriatUm has been used and anoth
golng With Lamkin he expects to w appropriation will be necessary be
land the Presbyterian church vote; ! fore tho work can be resumed. The
while he catches the Methodists with J clarification of tho lands has been
Itiggs for chief of police and the Mis- ( In charge of L. L. Sharp of Portland,
sion vote with Lmery. j 1
If his ticket wins two things m'Papfe CnnftUfiY
he confidently expected: First, the bCCU lUHUCI
mineral springs fountains will be es-1 Rftffilf
tablished in front of Kiidors' store j lWgUb VCilJf
and the park turned into a cow pas-1
turo; and, second, all of the powers! ()(? K11(,ar Compnny offering
of city government wil be used to put ,he ltj,I.,;(.t.lit.leii ln co 0f $7 per ton
all competitive merchants on the f()I. te ntxt J(,al..s crop of mKar
hummer. F.ndrs' main objects in )jp(tK C()Iltracta uru jjplm, sK,led up
life for the past five years have been aU ovpr t,e va,oy InimJlecls 0f
to make tho bats roost in the Plaza , acrfR of nf,n. iei,t .m, wj, ,)e dev,,,,!
and to run every other merchant out t() Ue )r(,K.lion 0f snKar i)W.t3 next
of town. He has gone up and down faH practically all of the farmers
the streets of Ashland all this time ( W,J0 TiiUl;li ,w.ts an,i ha-wator'on
declaring that he was going to do U(,jr an( ma(J( ))s Inoney on ll(.etg
these things, and if he wins his ticket at -0 rnj j- per ton all(1 t,g ,,roI-.
he will be able to do It. : its are i(J0e(i forward to next year.
It remains to be seen whether the The Ilouck j, jU8t a)0ve George
church vote of Ashland Is to be rjunn's, has lieen leased by the beet
caught on that kind of a hook and : company and is being plowed. The
allow itself to be used by a designing j beet men have a caternniar engine
politician to wreak his vengeance on working jn this end of tne valley.
his competitors and destroy one 1
of the city of Ashland for the benefit
of Enders' property.
Penniston Starts
Park Honor Roll
An honor roll upon which every
man, woman and child In Ashland
should be anxious to have his or her
' name will be started as the result of
a niiblic-snirited offer upon the part ,
of S Penniston. Realizing that with the land Is sublrrigated In some man
the far from abundant funds avail- ner. Too much water sacrifices the
able this year, the park board will be
able to do little In the way of plant
ing new shrubs and trees, and also
that these shrubs and trees Bhould
be planted this year. Mr. Penniston
originated the Idea of a park beauti
fication fund to be contributed to by
the citizens of Ashland and to be de
voted entirely to the purchase of
shrubs and trees. Mr. Penniston has j
agreea vo Be - "'""
on shrubs and trees to the cause
profits in no way from the proposl-1
tion which he Is backing for the sake
of the park which he loves. All the
banks of the city have agreed to re-
--1... ...l,nAlnilnnD onrl Ptirft ffT thft I
ce.vB . - I
fnnds. and every Ashlander should
contribute any amount he or she feels
-n.m tlttA nanfa 11 n
..., ,. Ihas been under the tutorship of
Mr. Penniston explains his idea, , ,
more fully in the following communi
cation. A More Beautiful Park.
To the Citizens of Ashland and Vi
cinity: We are in need of shrubs
and ornamental trees for the beautlfir
cation of our park. Planting Bhrubs
and trees enhances the beauty and
value of our park. No one feature
in beautifying the park will enhance
Its beauty more than planting suita
ble groups of shrubs and trees, both
as single speciments and In groups
to hide some objectionable feature
in the landscape.
I will not go into details of plant
ing at the present time, but will ask
the citizens of Ashland and vicinity
to subscribe as liberally as they can
towards a fund for the purpose of ob
taining shrubs and trees suitable for
this purpose. The shrubs and trees
will cost from 50 cents to $5 each.
I am representative of a nursery, and
will allow my commission for extra
shrubs and trees, which will be about
25 per cent, or, in, other words, for
every $100 subscribed the park will
receive $125 in value.
Our several banks have kindly con
sented to receive subscriptions and
care for the funds. A subscription
list will be placed in each bank. Any
amount from the widow's mite to the
rich man'B abundance will be thank
fully received. Personally I am
ready to help, aid and assist in every
possible way I can.
Yours for a more beautiful park, .
s: PENNISTON'. ',;
Wanted. 509 people to eat chicken
tamftiM mi Rose Bros.' " Bl-tf
The cruisers
who are ct work classifying the Ore
gon & California railroad grant lands
for the pest three months are begin
ning to r.rrivo In Rosohurg prepara
tory to abandoning operations until
early next spring, when the task will
he resumed. Two of tho eight crews
employed In the work reached the
city Tuesday, and several of their
nuralier loft for their homes on Tues
day night's trains. Although accur
ate figures were not obtainable to
day, It is thought approximately
Two japaneSe are negotiating with
several land owners In the upper val
ley In an endeavor to lease 150 acres
or more for beet raising.
The beets raised in the Rogue Riv
er valley seem to have a very high
saccharine content, and that the val
ley Is an Ideal beet' raising section Is
confirmed by the top notch price paid
for the beets.
The Japs who are looking for land
near here state that a great flood of
water is not needed, hut that there
must he some water available unless
saccharine lor bum
Temple Crowded lor
Memorial Services
Mrs. E. B. Ilanley of Medford won
her way Into the hearts of an audi
ence which packed the auditorium at
Ithe Elks Temple at' the annual me-
8ervlceg Smiay wlth one of
" . . . .... .
I. ' LI LCCU til 4iotiiaiiu Ob
such an event. Every other number
on the program was also excellent.
Mrs. H. T. Elmore sang a beautiful
solo, as did also E. L. Rasor. Sum
ner Parker, talented local boy who
one
of the leading teachers of the violin
in the country, played a much appre
ciated solo. Loveland's orchestra
played, A. L. Strickland delivered the
eulogy to the departed brothers and
P. K. Hammond the invocation.
The hall was decorated with au
tumn greenery. The decorating com
mittee was composed of Mr. and Mrs.
J. K. Choate, Miss Gladys Nay, How
ard Barrett and Wilfred Carr.
Mrs. Hanley's address dealt with
the origin and meaning of the order
and something of Its history.
The committee in charge was com
posed of J. K. Choate, Howard Bar
rett and Wilfred Carr. Neat souvenir
programs were handed out at the
door by the ushers, Messrs. Carl Mur
phy, Roy Cambers, Ben Bowers, Ray
Murphy and Frank Dougherty. The
officers who participated in the rit
ualistic services were George Owen,
exalted ruler; George Watson, lead
ing knight; Charles Hast, loyal
knight; Cassius Miller, lecturing
knight; J. E. Thornton, secretary;
Pierre Provost, treasurer; Clif Jen
kins, esquire; Gus Hedburg, Inner
guard; T. T. Provost, tiler; Rev. P.
K. Hammond, chaplain.
We are better equipped than ever
before to turn out high grade Xmas
photos. The finest work, on time
regardless of weather conditions.
Studio Ashland. It
Rer. W, L. Mellinger left Sunday
evening for Spokane, where he will
attend the Northwest Parliament of
Christian church ministers.1 He ex
pects tp be gone about two weeks.
Roseburg Review
This year's anniversary play, on
which a cast of high school students
lias been working for the past three
weeks, will be given in the local high
school gymnasium Friday, Decern-
her S. ,
Sidestepping the usual run of high
school plays, this year's production
Is a lively, up-to date three-act farce -
comedy entitled "The Elopement of
Ellen."
Ellen, the maid of tin lately mar-
rled Mrs. Ford, elopes with the
coachman. June, the new one which
the employment bureau sends, prove
to be a college girl who Is out writ- j G. Milner, agent for the Over
ing on tho servant girl problem. She land cars in Ashland and Medford,
,1s a friend of Bob, Mrs. Ford's broth- left hut Wednesday for Portland,
jer, who is visiting her. Bob discov- j where lie will join the Portland ter
jers her identity and coaxes her to j ritory ue.its. They went to Seattle
1 stay. She does, and a romance from Portland ami left Seattle Satur
I springs up between them. Max, a day with the Washington agents for
friend of Bob's, and who Is engaged the east.
1 to Dorothy March because of the pro- j A priv.ite Pullman car will be walt
; visions of a will, but who had pro- ing for dealers at every Pacific coast
posed to .Tune some time before, ap- city where there is a Willys-Overland
rives, and some complex situations branch. These cars w ill be chartered
take place. Kev. Hume, an absent- by the Willys Overland Company for
minded minister, makes his appear- the exclusive use of Overland dealers,
nnce and falls in love with Dorothy, and th' y will run through to Toledo
His show of devotion is one of con-1 and nt'ini to starting point. The
tinual merriment to the audience, special Pullman cars from tho Ore-
Max and Dorothy quarrel. A love gon and Washington branches of the
mole signed with tho initials "J. IT." , company will meet at Pendleton and
t falls into tho hands of the wrong proceed from there to Ogden. From
person. The initials are mistaken Ogden there will be a solid vestibule
for another one of the party, and the limited train consisting of eight
! contents' are vastly misunderstood.; sleeping cars, two diners, baggage,
'l!ow the following tangle is unrav-. buffet, and observation cars. This
eled and the several lovers united is train will make the same time and
!the subject of the side-splitting, even- ithe same stops as the fastest limited
! running comedy. trains except in such cases where it
The cast which Miss Lilly, the In-
structor, has coached for the play
consists of the following:
Mrs. Ford Fern Murphy
Mr. Ford Merrill Throne
June Haverhill. . .Charlotte Chappell
Dorothy March Bonis Jennings
The Rev. Mr. Hume Verne Blue
Max Ten Eych Elwood Hedberg
Bob Chaplin Lith Abbott
Reserved seats can be secured at
Rose Bros.' on Tuesday, December 5,
1916. Admittance 5 cents.
More Amendments
Are Reported
It is reported that plans are being
laid to submit a charter amendment
to the reople which will dispense j with the turkey merchants in Ash
with tho springs water commission land who laid in a big supply of
and place the control of the mineral j Thanksgiving birds. The high price
water system In the hands of the city I set on the birds caused a great many
council, and a second proposition to to revert to chicken, duck or rabbit
abolish both springs water commis
sion and park board and place con
trol of park and system in the hands
of the council.
Master Mechanic
Of S. P. To Retire
T. W. Heintzleman, general super
intendent of motive power of the
Southern Pacific Company, will go on
the retirsd list December 1 on ac
count of 111 health. This announce
ment has been made by the company
officials at San Francisco. He will
be succeeded by George McCormlck,
assistant general manager of .the Sunset-Central
lines in charge of motive
power. Heintzleman entered the
Southern Pacific service In 1888 as
master mechanic.
Valley Cowboy
To Teach Busting
A New Orleans dispatch of Novem
ber 17 says: "Willam Henry Fer
guson of Central Point, Ore., known
In his home state as 'Big Bill,' once
champion broncho buster and expert
rifle shot, passed through here on
his way to Sarasota, Fla., where he
will spend tho winter In teaching tho
four grandchildren of Mrs. Potter
Palmer of Chicago how to shoot.
Mrs. Palmer met Ferguson while In
Oregon and was impressed with him.
She offered him $150 a month to
teach the young men how to ride and
shoot."
Two new shipyards are in prospect
for Coos Bay, new mills are contem
plated, and industrial activity is
general in many lines.
The Pacific Telephone ft Telegraph
Company is to spend $5,320 on a new
cable between Roseburj and Edenr
newer.
; J. A. Willys, president of tho Wil-
, lys Overland Company, has Just com-1
pleted arrangements for the biggest
.excursion ever held In the history of
railroading. Approximately 5,000
Overland dealers have been Invited
by Mr. W'illyH to attend a convention
1 to be hold in tho new administration j
j building of the Willys-Overland Com-1
pany, just completed at Toledo.
I It will cost the Overland company j
j approximately $500,000 to pay for j
. railroad transportation, meals, hotel 1
.expenses and entertainment of these 1
dealers. ,
! will be necessary to take on or let off
j Overland dealers. The running time
will be the same as is made by the
Overland Limited to Chicago and the
Twentieth Century Limited from Chl-
cago to Toledo.
The dealers will not only have an
opportunity of viewing the wonderful
manufacturing plant of the Overland
company, hut will also be shown the
entire line of 1917 models before
they are placed on display at the New
Tork duomobile show.
Many
Turn From
Turkey to Chicken
An unorganized hut very effective
boycott on turkey played the deuce
for the centerpiece of the Thanksgiv
ing dinner, and as a result many
dressed turkeys were left hanging In
the shops when the stores closed
Thanksgiving eve.
Southern Oregon
Meet Postponed
Owing to inability of some of the
members of the legislature elected
from the southern Oregon counties
to be in Grants Pass on next Monday,
the date of the meeting will he ad
vanced, probably to the 11th of the
mouth. A great deal of interest Is
being aroused in the proposed mectr
lng, and numerous questions will be
presented by residents of the district.
Grants Pass Courier.
Vining Pleases
At Grants Pass
Grants Pass Courier: The, assem
bly room of tho Commercial Club
was filled to capacity last night by
an audiince that came to hear Prof.
Vining of Ashland deliver a most
admirable address upon "Important
Periods In Life Development." Mr.
Vining was here under the auspices
of the Parent-Teacher Association.
The address hold the closest atten
tion of tho audience during the evenr
ing and won meny complimentary
comments. It dealt wth the life and
development of the boy, and was
illustrated with examples culled from
the local supply. Boy nature and
the growth of character were dis
cussed, Prof. Vining knowing boy life
as few do know It.
An unusually large line to select
from and the finest work possible If
you have your Xmas photos made. at
Stndlo Ashland. TUey are" always on
time. it
From December 4 to December 9
the Ashland public library will offer
to the parents of the city a free ex
hibit of children's books which will
lie well worth tho while of anyone to
visit. Tito library will of course have
nothing to sell, but will prove an in-
valuable aid in the selection of gift
books for children, Insuring the se-
I lection of the bent books in any line;
In which a child may bo particularly
interested. Parents who contemplate
the purchase of books ns gifts for
their children, and books are includ-
ed on the list of desirable gifts In
nearly every home, should take the
opportunity to visit the exhibit. At
tendants will be on lut 1 1 (1 to offer ad
vice and give information.
Optimistic About
OregonYMines
Portland Telegram: Through the.
apathy of Oregonians the mining In-j
dustry of the state is languishing, I
when It should be one of the most
active industries, declared
W (1
j Page, San Francisco mining man,
j who is in Portland today, lie prur
I diets tint a few years more will find
i southern Oregon humming with min
I ing activity.
I "The slate lias some splendid enp
i per properties and should develop a
! great milling district particularly in
Jackson, Doughs and Josephine
'counties," said Mr. Page. "The
j trouble with Oregon is that Its own
citizens do not go Into tho business.
They have bought cheap stocks In
some Instances nnd then believed
that they were mining. Properly
handled, the mining business has no
risk attached to It other than the
risk of money that goes Into prelim
inary examination of prospects.(
"Eastern capital has Its eye on
Oregon's minlngi district and will
waste no time In getting hold ot the
best prospects unless Oregonians
themselves take steps to corral them;
"Now that the railroad Is extended
through to Marshfleld, I look for de
velopment of the coppei lodes, and
logically copper ore will be smelted
on the coast, probably In the Coos
Bay section."
Park Superintendent
Graves Discharged
Superintendent P. II. Graves of the
Ashland parks was discharged Satur
day by the park board and left Sun
day for "an Francisco. According to
members of the park board, lack of
funds made the laying off of all the
men and the discharge of Mr. Graves
necessary. Mr. Graves was sent here
by John McLaren, the famous land
scape artist and park designer of San
Francisco, who laid out Lithla park
at the request of President Sproule
of the Southern Pacific Company.
Mr. Graves is regarded by Mr. Mc
Laren as a very valuablo man and It
is understood that the discharged
mnn goes from here to a much better
position which has been open to him
near San Francisco but which he has
refused heretofore owing to his in
terest In the creation of Lithla park
here.
In the time that he has been here
Mr. Graves has gnlned some wonder
ful effects In Lithla pnrk, as anyone
who visits the park can testify. The
entrancing perpetual color schemes
which his flowers painted against the
green backgrounds of the park, all
of which were planted less than a
year ago, give only a hint of the ef
fects which may be gained by system
atic planting for future years of pe
rennial shrubs, bulbs and plants. Hid
Interest In the park has been that of
a sculptor In his mnstc-rplece, and
Ashland loses a very valuable man In
the departure of Mr. Graves.
During the past twelve years the
annual expenditures on the rural
roads and bridges In the United
States have Increased from about
$80,000,000 to about $282,000,000,
or an increase of more than 250 per
cent. During this same period the
annual expenditures from state funds
for road and bridge construction and
maintenance have Increased from $2,
550,000 to $53,492,000, or almost
2,00d per cent.
Only twenty more days to have
Xmas, photos made. Come In now
and we will have them, ready when
you want them. Stndlo Ashland. It
Before a crowd of over 1,500 rabid
football fans, with music by two
1) 11 (Is and the enthusiastic cheering
of two well-organized rooting sections
urging them on, Ashland and Med
lord high schools battled for tha
championship of southern Oregon at
Medford Thanksgiving day, Medford
winning by a 10 to 0 score in an
evenly contested game.
Tho Medford team outplayed the
Ashlanders In practically every de
partment, but by hucIi a small mar
gin as to be hardly noticeable. The
Ashland team displayed tho same
failing which has been evident in for
mer games this year and showed but
I line nasi) in uu'U i rue iorin. in uiu
third quarter the wearers of the red
and white suddenly nwoke to true
form and for five minutes were sim
ply irresistible, marching over,
through and around the Medford Jino
with n steam rollerlili' precision
which brought the cheering fans up
on their toes, for five minutes thi
locals played the real football ot
which they have shown themselves
I ,;lable
on several occasions this
' 1 l" " Slumped iiiicK lino uiu
state or list li'ssness. lliroui.ni tlm
rest of the game the locals fought
individually like demons and appear
ed to be doing their best, but the psy
chological moment for n score wai
past. D'td the whistle marking thu
end of the third quarter held off a
few seconds, Ashland would have un
doubtedly have scored. Tho team
was working as a unit.
Medford's men were trained right
down to the minute and showed tlia
effects of most conscientious work.
Corum and Gentry starred for tlia
winners, hitting the line with bullet
like speed.
Medford's first score came with a
drop kick from the twenty-yard line
In the first quarter after an ex
change of punts had netted them n
good gain. Ashland got to the fif
teen! yard line In the second quarter1
but failed to make two yards on thd
fot-rth down and lost the ball. Ash-
land was again dangerous when n
J Medford fumble, the only one of the
day, was recovered by an Ashlander.
but a forward pass was intercepted
with disastrous results. Medford
came within a few feet of scoring at
tills time, hut a stone wall defense
stopped them. The Medford touch
down came In the Inst quarter nnd
with but three and a half minutes
left to play. Young ran a punt well
back and a forward pass, line plunges
and shift plays carried the ball over.
Brandon converted goal. The locals
came back with another flash of form
in the last two minutes and carried
the bnll forty yards with a beautiful
series of end runs, pnsses and line
bucks, hut It cnmetoo late.
Cunningham played the star game
for Ashland nnd was closely seconded
If not equalled by Lowe. The tack
ling of these two was terrific and
time after time prevented long gains,
llarrell played a consistent game and
Jones was a whirlwind III the line,
playing the best ball he has exhibited
this season. Furry was laid out with
a cracked rib and collarbone In tha
first quarter, leaving a big hole In
his side of tho line, which contributed
a great deal to Ashland's defeat.
Post mprtems are hardly in order,
but one or two "ifs" must be in
dulged In. If Ashland had played up
to the form displayed In brief flashes
victory would have hovered over Ash
land steeples Thursday. If the Med
ford safety had not picked up an
onslde kick, calmly and apparently
not knowing that llarrell, who was
three feet away, was onslde, llarrell
would have picked It up and scored.
If Buck had turned to the outside In
stead of the inside on a forward pass
after he had passed the entire Med
ford defense, including the safety
who was coached to come up on pass
es, he would probably have held it
and scored. If but what's the use?
Walt until next year.
Ashland supported her team roy
ally, several hundred going down to
the game. The students had hired
the ebony colored, red-coated min
strel band which was in town, and
the way those coons put the pep Into
"Loyalty Song" was a caution. Med
ford had a big band, but the eight
coons held their own. It was a good
Investment.
Suits for Christmas, tailored to
your measure. Special .values this
week only, $18, at Orres Tailor Shop.
, They will be the best and you will
get them on time If you have them
made at Studio Ashland. Ik
