umnnnnnONE CENT*******
f Edgar C. Wheeler's story about
X Rev. Shaw's church is to be found
Z today on page five.
Permanent Camp of 15,000 Men Practically Assured
MAYOR
HEADS
MOVE!
MAYOR A. V. FAWCETT
By A. V. Fawcett
Mayor of Tacoma.
To the People of Pierce County:
Tacoma, the City of Destiny, is
now ready to establish that des
tiny as a world power.
Most beautiful and picturesque
In location, with unrivaled harbor,
with a great tideflat area just now
opening for industrial develop
ment, with her mountain for
sightseers, her adjacent valleys
for agriculture, with timber un
matched, Tacoma has wondered
what to do with her great prairie.
and beautiful lakes, and now the'
United States government ha* of-;
fered the solution to the prob
lem by proposing the establish-;
ment of a great army headquar-.
ters, mobilization center and di
vision encampment.
Pierce county is asked to fur-;
nish the Bite. The government
will do the rest.
Not a Mere Barracks.
At a meeting some time ago
citizens from all over the county!
asked me to be chairman of the!
committee to further this project. I
The committee has been active
In the preliminary work with the!
government, and the message Is 1
here from Washington announc
ing that the secretary of war,
with the approval of President
Wilson, Senator Chamberlain,
chairman of the senate of mili
tary affairs, and Congressman;
Dent of the house committee, has,
(Continued on Page Five.)
COUNTY HAS
PROTECTION
Shoald Pierce county give the'
government the desired 70,000;
acres for an army post nud should
the United States ever cease to
maintain there the training camp)
agreed to, title to all the lands;
will revert to Pierce county.
This proviso is made a part of|
the written agreement signed by-
Newton D. Baker, secretary of
war.
SECOND WEST
POINT, MAYBE
There has been much agitation
in congress and elsewhere for a
second West Point, to be located
on the Pacific coast.
If such a school Is established,
Tacoma would be the logical loca
tion for it, provided it now lands
the army post.
Other Army
Posts Look
Small Now
How the American L>ake
camp will compare with
some other military units in
tbe northwest may be In
ferred from these facts:
Fort Lawton at Seattle
has a battalion, 600 men. *
Fort Wright, near Spo
kane, the same.
The Vancouver barracks
Is a regimental post and
houses about 1700.
The American Lake post,
at the minimum, will have
15,000 men and 670 offi
cer*.
It will be, at the start,
The Tacoma Times
VOL. XIII. NO. 302.
Vast Tract Where Huge Army Post May Rise
TACOMA AT LAST
JUSTIFIES NAME,
'CITY OF DESTINY 9
BY THE EDITOR
CThe greatest newspaper story ever printed, as far as the
. future growth and prosperity of Tacoma is concerned, you
will find spread on this page.
This U. S. army post, if seized by Pierce county, as it certainly
will, almost immediately will increase the population of this city
one-quarter.
It will make Tacoma at a single step one of the important mil
itary centers of the nation.
Together with our mountain and other natural attractions, it
will convert this city into a spot no tourist will think of missinsr.
Clt will broaden and metropolitanize (if you will pardon the
invention) the whole character of our life.
Following as it does on the heels of the announcement of in
dustrial enterprises of astonishing magnitude, it seals the future
of Tacoma. It determines now, once and for all, that our city is
to go forward into a day of big things.
The Times rejoices with the rest of Tacoma in this turn of for
tune. 'Way back on January Iwe christened Baby 1916 "The
Year of Promise."
C Never was forecast more completely vindicated. The year
has been increasingly good to this community and now in
1916's concluding month it is heaping up treasures for us.
Yes, it has been The Year of Promise, and in large measure
a year of fulfillment as well.
Need Not Worry Over Taxes
The total amount of taxes
paid for all purposes on the
70,000 acres of prairie land
desired by the government, as
computed hy J. T. 8. Lyle, of
the Taxpayer*' association,
was fl 7,400 this year.
As compared with tlie total
amount of taxes paid In
l'lerce county, this sum la
trivial.
While the acquisition by
the government of this site
would remove the land for
taxation purposes, the loss to
the other taxpayers of the
county would be so slight as
to be Insignificant, in the
opinion of Mr. l.ylc and other
students of the subject.
Mr. Lyle alfto points out
that this loss of tax money
and the entire Interest
charges on the bond Issue
would lie almost entirely met.
after the first two years, by
{25c A MONTH.
It will not have to pay after
that time.
Another important finan
cial aspect of the proposition
is that the county would be
saved an immense amount of
money for road maintenance
In the district acquired by the
Some Investment!
It Isn't aa If somebody was asking Pierce county to send
$2,000,000 back to Washington, D. C, or some other re
mote spot.
Not at all! Instead, the people of this county are asked
to spend $21000,000 buying up the land ln one corner of
their own county.
The money will go for the most part to our own folks.
They then will have It to spend buying farms in other
parts of our county and to Invest right here ln other lines.
And then Uncle Sam comas back at us with a 2B per
cent Increase in the else of our city, and leaves that
$2,000,000 worth of land right here to be used by all of us,
aa well.
Ton (imply can't beat It for a county investment
NEWS
THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TACOMA.
J"*7~Y~a*yv^i^-_ri-r*^-r,y**~i,^i J'r J'i~ ,~__"»*^^i~i Jv*i__~> J¥y^^*MT_r*__ri_^fv~ii~ii~i-~i- *-i j*-ii~ ~i j-_t-i*- *.* ~i*'vvvYVVvv^on_nfuv>iV«vinAAAA_riAAAAj^^
TACOMA. WASH., MONDAY. DECEMBER 4. 1<)1(>.
government, for that large
Item would have to be carried
by Uncle Ham.
For several years this
amount has been running as
high as gl&O.OOO annually,
though much of that total
waa for new work.
This map shows the 140,000 acres
from which 70,000 acres Is proposed to
be donated to the government. The
squares are sections, one mile each
way, and the nuraliers their official land
office designations. The Puget Hound
shoreline, the N. P. and MUwaukee
railway lines, the various lakes and
the towns of Roy and lllllhurst ought
to enable anyone at all familiar with
that part of the county to grasp the
scope of the promised camp site.
APPLEBY
GOT IDEA
AT CAMP
Stephen Appleby, cashier of the
National Hank of Tacoma, is the
man who deserves chief credit for
bringing the American Lake camp
matter to a head.
As a member of the business
men's tamp, held at Cosgrove last
summer, he learned that the army
bill passed by congress had pro
vided for the placing of a greatly
increased number of troops in tho
Puget Sound area.
Goes to Washington.
Acquainting only a carefully se
lected committee of public spirited
Tacomans with his plans, he met
Maj. Gen. J. F. Bell, second high
est officer in the army, and finally
gained the general's complete ap
proval of plans for a division post
at the lake.
This was after Gen. Bell had
come here last summer especially
to igo over the ground himself.
Fortified with the backing of
the army, Mr. Appleby, together
with Jesse O. Thomas and Frank
S. Baker, went to Washington D.
C, and there saw Newton D.
Baker, the secretary of war.
After carefully studying the
matter over and calling in Gen.
Bell, Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott and
other army heads, the secretary
decided to sign an agreement
binding the government to assign
a division of troops here, if the
site should be donated, but first
he wished to consult the Presi
dent.
Wilson Says Yes.
The matter was of such su
preme importance that he did not
wish to assume full responsibility
for the step. This necessitated a
wait of several weeks, as Presi
dent Wilson was at that time ln
the concluding part of bis cam
paign.
With the election over, he found
time to study the situation, and
he, as commander-in-chief of the
army, assented to his war secre
tary's signing the agreement.
This was not done, however, un
til after Senator Chamberlain,
chairman of the senate military
affairs committee, and Congress
man Dent, chairman of the house
committee, had aleo O. X.'d thy
project.
Bank Show* Public Spirit.
During all these months Mr. Ap
pleby has been giving nearly his
entire time to the subject. His
employers, who are no more di
rectly Interested in the success of
the enterprise than are any other
Tacomans, have cheerfully given
him unlimited leave of absence on
full salary.
Tbe necessary expenses for
traveling, map making, telegraph,
etc., have been met from a fund
voluntarily donated by Tacoma
lc A COPY. |
_%_. ■ mmmatmmma^mmatatatammmtmam^^m
25c A MONTH.
UP TO PIERCE COUNTY
An army camp of 70,000 acres at American Lake on which shall be stationed
not less than 15,000 soldiers!
An army camp three times as large as the Presidio and three times as large
as Plattsburg—the greatest army camp in the United States!
Such a Christmas gift today awaits only Pierce county's acceptance. The
government stands ready to establish it and maintain it, if only this county will
furnish the land on which to place it.
Assurances to this effect have heen received in a telegram from Newton D.
Baker, secretary of war. The deeisionwas made on the recommendation of the
highest army officers and was concurred in hy the chairmen ol' the house and sen
ate military affairs committees and b) President Wilson himself.
The American Lake army camp thus at last has become not only a likely
project hut an administration measure. Authorization for stationing the troops
In this area and appropriating the money for their transportation and for their
housing and maintenance was Included in the army increase bill enacted last
summer.
It all hangs on the willingness <»l' Pierce county to donate to the government
70,000 acres of prairie land, selected by army experts, and valued al not more than
$2,000,000.
Monday afternoon a huge petition thai lias been quietly circulated by a com
mittee beaded by A. Y. Love will be presented t<» the county commissioners, tak
ing tlifiii to call a special election to pass on the voting of bonds for this purpose.
Il is expected that Jan. 6 will be designated as the date for this flection. The
people of tho county will be asked to authorises $2,000,000 issue for the condem
nation of the necessary lands, and if the vote is favorable i suit will be started
early in the year to acquire the property the government wants.
EVERY PRECAUTION HAS BEEN TAKEN AGAINST LEAVING ANY
POSSIBLE OPENING FOR REAL ESTATE SPECULATORS OR OTHER
PERSONS WHO WOULD SEEK TO GOUGE THE COUNTY.
An area twice the size that needed, extending from Steilacoom and lhipont
south and east and taking in all the land surrounding Spanaway, llillhurst and
Hoy, to the south county line, has lieen blocked out by the war department (Its
exact boundaries are shown plainly on the map printed on this page).
Means $7,400,000 a Year
Included in that immense tract are several pieces which, because of their
value for other purposes, will not he donated. These include the existing towns,
several scattered tracts of fertile farming land, a few valuable summer homes and
the Nisrpially Indian reservation.
The reservation will he acquired later by the war department through pur
chase from the interior department. The other pieces will he left in the army
camp site, and the troops will maneuver either around them or, if there are roads
handy, through them.
After all these subtract ions are made, there is left far more land than the
70,000 acres retpiired. When the condemnation suits are finished and the prices
determined, a selection will he matle, not hy Ihe county commissioners nor the
Tacoma committee, hut by the war department heads in Washington, I). C
This plan is thought to make absolutely impossible any attempt for specu
lators or option ganihlers to profit from the 1 transaction.
The immensity of the undertaking the government has set out upon is diffi
cult for the layman to comprehend.
Pierce county has the written promise of the secretary of war, backed by the
military affairs leaders of both houses of congress and by Woodrow Wilson, com
mander-in-chief of the army, that a full division of United States troops will be
stationed here. That means, at the minimum, 670 officers and 15,000 men. The
actual number probably would often approach closer to 22,000, war strength.
Then there might be sent here a second division, doubling the total. But the
county would be assured of 15,000 AT THE MINIMUM.
There would he infantry, cavalry, field artillery, air squad, horse artillery,
engineers, mounted engineers, signal corps, hospital corps, a sanitary train, quar
termaster eorpt, engineers' train and 72 guns.
To maintain the 15,000 troops would require an annual expenditure on the
part of the government for pay, food, fuel, light anil forage of <>rSG2O,
--000 a month f
x_
What such an expenditure means may he gathered i'rom Ihe fact that the
present annual retail trade of all Tacoma stores is something less than $7,000,000!
Just Needs Pierce County's "Yes"
In addition, there would he an Immediate expenditure for the const miction of
cantonments, storehouses, hospitals, officers' quarters, stables, garages and tho
like of $1,500,000 for materials alone.
These preliminary structures would be practically all of frame construction,
thus furnishing a vast, close-to-hoinc demand for lumber. The estimate is that
the payroll of the civilian labor that would be required in the erection of these
buildings would total another $r{,000,000. All of this would be supplied, naturally,
from Tacoma and iimnediat c vicinit}'.
And then, on top of this, the camp would bring to Tacoma officers' families
and civilians sufficient in number to at least add 25 per cent, to our present popu
lation.
Once established, such a camp no doubt would grow very rapidly, military
men have assured The Times. Permanent structures would replace the temporary
barracks. More troops would be stationed here, and it is not at all improbable
that within a few years this might become one of the foremost training camps of -
the entire world.
It already has been established as a matter of war departmet policy that the
American Lake camp, if created, shall be the training ground also for all the state
militia as far east as the Dakotas, for business men's camps, for Red Cross train
ing camps, for rifle associations, for high school cadets, and, should universal
training be established, for all such work in this section of the country.
As part of the new policy of the war department, also, it is probable thalex#
tensive trade schools of many sorts will be established at this camp. ""£§«
This immense undertaking, while coming to a head rather suddenly, ym b«ti M
been long in the building. The American Lake site for at least 15 years has'
officially recognized as the best in the country for the purpose. One or two &&
forts to acquire it for the government failed because it was gone about in ft Wi*flH
way. Log-rolling congressmen and land sharpers blocked it. But now at 1
enterprise is all but assured. Its own intrinsic merit is carrying it along to;
**»t+m>
f» iHIGHT EDITION****^
I WEATHER I
S Tacoma: Occasional rain tonight 2
C and Tuesday. %
f Washington: Same west portion, 1
% fair east. S
fsHliiiliHiiiiii^iiH>iHHii^HHHHHlwl
