THE BARUE
DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 222.
UAKHK, VERMONT, MONDAY,' DKCKMNKK t, 1910.
VIUCK, ONE CENT.
DOZEN MILES
FROM CAPITAL
Teutonic Forces Have Occu
pied Village of Gradich
ten, South of Bucharest
ADMISSION MADE
BY PETROGRAD
SERBIANS CONTINUE
TO MAKE PROGRESS
Obstinate Fighting Kept Up,
Says Russian War
Office
Pctrograd, vi London, Dee. 4. The
war office announces that the Teutonic
forces have occupied tliH village of Gra
ditehen, IS miles south of Bucharest. Ob
stinate lighting is proceeding between
Alexandria and Bucharest.
BELGIAN CIVILIANS
KILLED IN REVOLT
Several Hundred Said to Have Lost Their
Lives in Antwerp on Refusal to Go
to Germany as Workmen.
London, Dee. 4. Two Belgians who
liBve arrived at Sluiklli, Holland, from
Ghent report a revolt in Antwerp on
Nov. 30, in which between 200 and 300
inhabitants and many German soldiers
are said to have been killed, according
to a Renter's Amsterdam dispatch to
day, quoting its Sluiskil correspondent.
It is reported that the revolt was due to
a call upon the inhabitants for work in
Germany.
The Ritual imi in Rumania, still
tlie thief center of military inter
est, does not appear markedly
less critical for the Rumanians, de
spite the rcMrtcd success of the
Rimso-liumaiiian offensive south
west of Bucharest in holding bark,
temporarily at least, Field Mar
shal Von Mackcnscu'H invading
forces. Bucharest and the armies
defending it continue under seri
ous threat, not only from the
forces from the southwest, but
also from those along the line of
the Argrehu stretching southwest
ward to l'itesti and from Von Jel
kcuhayn's army pressing south
ward from the mountain pauses.
The force of a converging at-'
tack, thus being pressed from
three sides on Bucharest, does not
appear to have diminished, but the
resisting powers of the Rumanians
ure reinforced.
Quiet prevails in the Nomine re
gion and elsewhere in northern
France.
Tho Serbians have renewed
their successful advance in Mace
donia, capturing a height and driv
ing the Bulgarians in the direc
tion of St. Ravina, according to
the French war office statement
to-day. Desperate battles have
been in progress for some days in
this region, which lies beyond the
Cerna river, east'of Monastir.
MAY WEATHER
THE CRISIS
COMPLAINANT ARRESTED.
Also Woman He Accused of Stealing $J0
from Him.
Burlington, Dec. 4. Irene Foster of
this eity and Peter Downey of Wutcr
jlmry were arrested during Saturday
I night on warrant charging (he former
with grand larceny and the latter with
TO HURRY CASE
THROUGH COURT
Asquith Government Has il;!l,,'ry. fuiiiK a complaint made at Solicitor-General Davis For-
I police heudimrter bv Downey (hut he I ,. ,
OLD PLAINFIELD RESIDES.
Details of Reorganiza
tion to Complete
PREMIER SUPPORTED
BY HIS COLLEAGUES
Karnak, 6,800 tons. The Karnak was
crowded with troops destined for Saloni-ki."
RUSSIA IS "GIVEN"
THE DARDANELLES
"S0MME OFFENSIVE ENDED."
Berlin Says It Was Stifled in Blood and
Mud.
Berlin, Dec. 4, via wireless to Tucker
ton, X. J. "After five months of the
heaviest and the bloodiest of combats,"
fays the Overseas News agency, "the
Nomine offensive at no place has ad
vanced beyond 10 kilometres. This suc
cess was attained in duly south of the
Somme. Then the French conquered La
Maisonnette, in sight of the ancient
walls of Peronne. Since this time, that
is to say, since 145 days, the offensivo
lias ceased at this place. No further ad
vance could be made beyond it.
"To the north of the Somme the ad
vance was slower but steadier. On July
10 in the sector fighting was still going
on about Contalmaison, which had been
taken by the British July I, but recap
tured later by the Germans. After most
sanguinary battles in July, August and
September the British, assisted by the
French, finally succeeded in September in
advancing as far as the ireiien during
the first days in July. F'rom this time
onward the Germans have halted all fur
ther advances.
"The great offensive which has cost the
western powers 800,000 to 900,000 men
ha.been stilled in blood and mud. The
battle on the Somme, which was started
with gigantic fresh armies, with war ma
chines and the ammunition of two parts
of the world, will continue in history as
the heaviest entente defeat. It means a
Gallipoli on the continent."
Her Allies Have Promised Her That Out
let, According to Statement of
Premier Trepoff in Duma.
Petrograd, Saturday, Dec. 2, via Ion
don, Dec. 4. The semi-official news agen
cy says that in the Duma Saturday Pre
mier Trepoff read a proclamation an
nouncing officially that an agreement
concluded by Russia and Great Britain in
1915 and latter approved by Italy "es
tablishes in definite manner the right, of
Russia to the straits and Constantino
ple." Premier Trepoff's announcement is
quoted by the news agency as follows:
"For more than a thousand years Rus
sia has been reaching southward for a
free outlet on the. open sea. This age
long dream, cherished in the hearts of
the Russian people, is .now rea'dy for
realization.
"From the beginning of the war, wish
ing to spare human lives and suffering,
we and our allies did our utmost to re
strain Turkey from mad participation in
hostilities. Turkey received formal as
surances guaranteeing her in exchange
for neutrality the integrity of her terri
tory and independence, and also conferr
ing on her certain privileges and advan
tages. These efforts were vain. Turkey
surreptitiously attacked us and thus
sealed her own doom.
We then concluded an agreement with
More Vigorous Prosecution
of the War Seems
Assured
London, Dee. 4. The decision of Pre
mier Asquith on the advice of War Sec
retary David Lloyd George, supported by
other member of the ministry, to recon
struct the cabinet is believed to have
saved the coalition government again
and insured a more vigorous prosecution
of the war.
Some of the details are yet to be ar
ranged, but the newspaper, which have
been the most severe critics of the gov
ernment dilatory attitude, express the
conviction that the premier will be able
to announce before many hours an agree
ment with his colleagues on voting ques
tions concerning the war council.
TO PRISON FOR LIFE.
Charles F. Stielow's Death Sentence Com
muted By Whitman.
Albany, N". V.. Dec. 4. The sentence
of Charles F. Stielow, condemned to die
in the electric chair for the murder of
Charles I). Phelps of West Shelby, Or
leans county, in March, Jul.), was com
muted to life imprisonment by Governor
U hitman yesterday.
Stielow was convicted of the murder
of Phelps, a well-to-do farmer, and was
charged with slaying the latter's house
keeper, Margaret Wolcott, but was not
tried on that count. His conviction was
sustained bv the court of appeals, and
Governor Whitman three times granted I
him a reprieve. On the strength of a
confession of Krwin King that he, and
not Stielow. had killed Phelps, Supreme
Court Justice Guy granted the con
demned man a stay of execution a few
hours before the time set for his death in
the electric chair, but an extraordinary
session of the supreme court resulted in
a refusal to interfere, the court of ap
peals later setting the week of Dec. 11 as
the time for execution. In the meantime
King tepndiated his confession.
Governor Whitman said in connection
with granting the commutation that he
believed Stielow was guilty and King's
confession a lie, adding:
"The King confession, uncorroborated
and repudiated by himself, could not be
introduced under our rules of evidence,
but I believe, and I speak from vears of
experience in the trial of criminal cases,
had been robbed of 30 bv the woman,
Both remained in jail over Sunday.
According to thn utory told at the time
he made the complaint, Downey came to
Burlington from Watrrbury Saturday.
During the evening he met Irene on Main
street and after talking a short time she
took him to the Montreal liouse on Ra
tery street. Later he discovered that Irene
hail left his company and that he was
munis $.10 winch lie had when he met
her.
Tht police visited the Montreal house,
where they found the girl, who was taken
to headquarters, A. O. McGee, proprie
tor of the house, accompanying the party.
Irene disclaimed any knowledge of the
$W and both she and McGee stuck to
the story that another than the woman
had brought Downey to the house. State's
Attorney Hopkins as acquainted with
the facts mid issued warrants, charging
Irane with grand larceny and Downey
with adultery, Irene being a married
woman. '
Irene was arrested on Aug. 3 on the
charge of adultery, '.convicted, sentenced
to the house of correction for from one
to one and one-half 'years .and placed on
probation. t
mally, Presented Re
quest To-day
MUCH LIVESTOCK BURNED.
Charles Lombard and Mrs. Ro4n Rich
ards Died To-day.
Charles Lombard, one of the t,cr res
idents of Plainlield, passed avy a1 his
home in that village this moriii'ijj iii'"Uiid
0 o'clock. Mr. Lombard had bc i, jn fail
ing health for the past three Wi.,,;. 1 ! c
leaes his brother, Harrison IMmi:ird ot
Moiitnelicr, atiil his sister, Mrs. (''aniiie
Buxton of I'liiinfleld. The ic'lls(,(l Was
about eighty years old unii at (liferent
times during life he had follow',! (lie o..
pupation of farming. His first yjV Whs
Julia Baitlett, ami her death ori',m'ed
many years ago. Ilis second w jfe, ho
was Mr, l-ouise Nye of Plnin'i(.,, died
in February, 1010. Mr. l.oii'nril Wl'S
the step-father of Archie K. " of t lu
ll f us of Jones & Nye in Barre- Jis cir
cle of acquaintances was not 1'inil'd to
the town where he resided, ic wa
well known in adjacent towns. -j')i" fu
neral will bo held Wednesday H 1:30
p. m.
The death of Mrs. Roxana rjirbrd,
of Piainticld, aged 75 years, " 1 i t 1 "'
curred early this morning at lb'Htod m)s
pital, Montpelicr, where she W.s taken
yesterday afternoon for treat npit inie
u d a rrr.i-it blirii-L- 4n tier ti emln in 1 1 S. Hi
Washington, P. C, Dee. 4. The su- 1)llt ,,. even knew she was to R to
preme court was formally asked to-day hospital. The cause of her Jt'Htli AV"s
to expedite the hearing of the Missouri, I old age and complications. , had
Oklahoma and Gulf railroad case, which I "M'n 1,1 "mr ma,ul ' r , "urr, "
wa rhoKcn to detormme tlie const. tu I v. D., i tn,.if, nn.i
WITH RAILROADS
ALSO CONCURRING
Arguments in the Adamson
Case May Be Made Re
fore Holiday Recess
STRONG FIGHT
FOR LIFE ENDED
Thomas Brady, Quarryman
with Broken Back,
Died Sunday
HE WAS INJURED
ALMOST MONTH AGO
And All of That T: His
Condition Ha?
Critic J
As Barn in South Burlington Was De
stroyed. Burlington, Dec. 4. A large barn on
the farm of John 1', MeKenzie on the
Williston road ill South Burlington was !t;laj.
oilmen to uie ground atuniay night,
with a loss to the owner of from S2.SU0
to $.3,000. The barn contained a large
amount of hav and grain, as well as 34
head of livestock, all of which was lost.
Firemen from this city were able to keep
the lire from the house, an emergency
call for help being sent in about 11:.'!0
o'clock, the automobile truck and chief's
car parrying the men to the farm.
The tire was discovered by Raymond
Milham. who was driving past the farm.
The blaze, the origin of which is a mys
tery, caught on the floi'r at about the
center of the main paTt of the barn. The
tionality of the Adamson act passed in
September when a nation-wide railroad
strike was eminent. A motion concurred
in by the railroads, was presented per
sonally in open court by Solictor-General
Davis of the department of justice.
It is believed that court would assign
the arguments before the holiday recess,
which comes on Dec. 22, and it was re
garded as possible, but very unlikely,
a decision would lie rendered bclore
the law becomes effective on January 1.
CARRANZA FORCES IN
CHIHUAHUA AGAIN
Official Reports Received in Washington
Tell of the Recapture of
the City.
nieces, among the nephews bei'l Peau
Townc, formerly connected with t,,. l'eo.
pic's bank of Barre. Funeral HrraoB
mcnts have not yet been complete
COST TOO MUCH TO LlVfc
So Lincoln W. Parsons Killed Bsetf t
New Harbor, Me.
Xew Harbor. Me., Dec. 4. I)rRj,onllon
cy over ill health and fear that t),c lugh
cott of living would prevent h1! frm
supporting his family through th winter
are supposed to be the causes tiat 'd
Lincoln W. Parsons, aged 4t, to t-ojiirn't
suicide yesterday by shooting.
Parsons, a fisherman, made tvo un.
successful attempts to kill him'lf on a
nearby beach. He evidently placed the
muzzle of his ride in his mouth, but in
pulling the trigger the gun slippy reh
time, the shots making jagged Voiinds
in each chuck. Both shots were l'ard r,y
Washington. D. C, Dec. 4. Official re- I Willard Blaisdell and incoming ns1er-
ports ti the state department, announc- men, who saw I'arsons bleeding I'r-ofUee-ing
the recapture of Chihuahua City byily. Blaisdell gave chase when ial-on
fire spread rapidly to the hay mow and .,liri.anza fr,.C8 snndav nikht, say 'that ' smarted to run
convicted Stielow of murder in the first
degree with the King confession before
it."
GOVERNMENT FOR RUMANIA.
Is Being Prepared by Germany One Offi
cial Already Appointed.
Berlin, Dec. 4, (by wireless to Tucker
ton, X. J.h "General Teulff Von Touch
efcund Weidcnbach has been appointed
chief of the military administration of
Rumania," says an official statement is
sued yesterday which declares: "A large
part of Rumania having fallen into the
hands of the central powers, an adminis
tration for the conquered districts has
been established.
"Several departments are' under tho
command of General Teulff. The mem
bers of these departments partly belong
to others of the central powers. The cul
tivation of the country will be carried
out accordingto the principles previous
ly established, which, in part, correspond
to the necessities of Rumania, and are,
in part, on account of tho necessities of
the central powers, cut off by England,
contrary to international law."
ARTILLERY HAS DAY.
French' Official Report Tells of Its Activ
ity. Paris, Dec. 4. The bulletin from gen
eral headquarters issued last night
rends:
"The day was marked by considerable
artillery activity south of the Somme, in
the region of Belloy-en-Santerre, and on
tlie right bank of the Meuse in the sec
tors of Vanx and Douaumont.
"In the Argonne there was mine fight
iny. but no infantry action. On the rest
of the front nothing occurred.
'Belgium: There is nothing to re
port" Violent artillery fighting occurred Sat-
i ! y night soilth of the Somme. in the
..!iitv ei Barleux. the war office an-
ii .iiie '.l yesterday afternoon. The state
ment follows:
'"ontl) of the Somme the artillery
1'ghtiiig w:s intense in the region of
Bnrleox. Otherwise the night was calm.
"even aviators last night threw down
T2" kilgrams of projectiles on the jvork
at Thionville and on the enemy hangars
snl aviation camps at Ktan. In the
evening the Germans again dicharged
shells of large calibre in the district of
Xamr."
FRENCH TRANSPORT SUNK?
Berlin Wireless Report Says Karnak Was
Lost.
our allies, which establishes in the most
definite manner the right of Russia tojthat no :,lrv this conntrv woM have
me siraus ana oiihihiiiiiioii?. iiisbiuit
should know for what they are shedding
blood and, in accord with our allies, an
nouncement of this agreement is made
to-day from this tribune.
In his address given out bv the semi
official news agency, Premier Trepoff
made the following declaration concern
ing the Russian policy in regard to the
Polish question:
"One part of the task before us is to
re-conquer and recover the kingdom of
Poland, temporarily detached by force of
arms. But that is not enough. W e must
also wrest from our enemies territories
formerly Polish beyond the old frontier
We will then reconstitute Poland free
within its ethnographical boundaries but
inseparately united with Russia.
The eagerly awaited assembling of the
Duma after suspension for ten days ry
imperial decree took place Saturday
without promise of settlement of the dis
pute between the government and the
representatives of the people. The lead
ers of the Duma said they were unin
formed as to the attitude of the govern
ment and did not look fo any immedi
ate clearing of the political -atmosphere.
In the opinion of a majority of the
deputies, the part change in the minis
try which followed the outburst at the
first meeting of the Duma, involving the
appointment of Alexander Trepoff as pre
mier, has relieved the situation only tem
porarily and did not go far enough to
alter radically the fundamental differ
ences between them and the government.
According to the liberal viewpoint, the
recent resignations brought little more
than a change in the personnel of the
ministry and there are no symptoms of
an essential alteration in the character of
the government, which is held responsi
ble for the present iuternal disorgani
zation and unrest.
RUMANIANS CLAIM VICTORY.
Berlin, Pec. 4. by wireles to Siyville.
The sink ins bv German submarine
rf a 6 "0-ton French transport filled with driving them back toward the south
troops ss announced yesterday by the
adiniialtr. The announcement follow:
. German submarine on Nov. 27 war
Malta ank the French transport steamer cvtrred.'
Say They Have Driven Back Main Teu
tonic Army Southward.
Bucharest, via London, Dec. 4. Tlie
main body of German and Bulgarian
forces southwest of Bucharest has been
defeated and driven back toward the
south, the war office announces. The
Rumanians also were victorious in a bat
tle with the Turks. On the right wing of
their western front the Rumanians were
compelled to retire. The announcement
follows :
"On the western front In Moldavia and
northern Wallauria there were lively ar
tillery and infantry actions. We at
tacked the enemy at various points, tak
ing ISO prisoners.
"In tlie valley of the T)iimbovitza
(northwest of Buiharest) the situation
is unchanged.
"On the right wing of our western
front the enemy, attacking stubbornly,
has compelled our troops to retire to
wards Titu. On the Glavatziotzc and
Xia-lov our troops defeated Turkish
division in the region of Draganeehti (.14
miles southwest of Bucharest) and the
main body of Germano-Bulgarian forces
in the region of Ghimpsti and Mihalech-
ti (II miles southwest of Bucharest I
We
have taken prisoners and war material
not vet enumerated.
In Dobrudia artillery fighting oe-
the neighltors kept the side of the house.
situated about twenty-five feet away
wet until the firemen from this city ar
rived.
resistance was encountered and that the
Villa bandits left no indications of their
whereabouts.
.Innt-.w XI. ,v llur. A. rinti.trul Varlrta
The main part of the harn is 00 by 2" e'nteml "( hihualu.a City from tho
'' north at 7 o'clock, according to a tele
gram received yesterday by General Gon
zales, brigadier commander. The mes
sage was from General Ozuna and was
iated Chihuahua City. It was official
feet with an ell ,"0 by 20 feet
barn were 27 hogs, three horses, a yoke
of steers, two cows, about fifty bushels of
rye, several tons of rye chaff, about 1.)
tons of hav, corn and other feed, besides
all of the farm machinery, including a!,y annO)mi.0) nt n,!ulry headquarters
new reaper and harvester. Insurance
with the Ifickok company covered both
barn and content.
ihtt, the Carranza forces have recaptured
the citv. Telegraphic communications
with Chihuahua City over the federal
line has been re-established.
Latest reports here arc that many
Villa followers have been captured and
Edwin A. Mead Was Staying with His killed. No definite news has l?en re
Son Fred Mead j ceived about Americans, bii it is be-
DIED AT WATKRBURY.
all
Parsons manatted to
(tagger into lus own rishhouse, v'h.,re lie
locked the door in Blaisdell's faC.
With the utmost deliberation, hp onee
more nlaeed the end of the rifl in his
mouth and fired a third and fatal sh"t,
while Blaisdell remained outside, x,Wt'r-
Icss to interfere.
Parsons was a native of Fritidship
lie haves a wife and three d:ilyliters,
also a mother, Mrs. hllen Parson and
( lie sister, Mrs. Kdwin Statlin, ith
whom live at 22 Fenway, Boston-
HOUSEWIVES ORGANIZE
lieved here that
Burlington, Dec. 4. The body of the '('hinese are safe.
lutu l-'.luvryl 1 XT.-H.I u In .iii..! ut lh(i i. J .l.i i-:ti.. I.-,. 1 .fi !
" " "' It "as aiiMounceii uiiii inn lias "it .f . rv
home of his son. Fred Mead, nt Water-If... ri,:i,..i...,. fn.. ,.;., f er " aPP''a' nei sarj
CR0KER BACK IN NEW YORK.
Says He May Stay in United States Sev
eral Years.
Xew York, Dec. 4. Richard Crokcr,
formerly leader of Tammany hall, ac
companied by Mrs. Croker, ifrrived here
yesterday on board the American liner
St. Louis from Liverpool. Mr. Croker
said he probably would remain in Amer
ica two or three years. He wiil spend
a week here, and then will iro to Palm
Beach, Fla., where he and Mrs. Croker
plan to spend the winter.
Conditions in Ireland, where he has
spent much of his time since retiring
from politics here, Mr. Croker said, were
very bad at present. The cost of living
has about doubled, he added.
"The Irish question is not settled." as
serted Mr. Crokcr. "They should have
had home rule long ago."
KILLED IN NEW YORK.
George S. Haley, Formerly a Resident of
Rutland.
Xew York, Dec. 4. George S. Haley,
former manager of the Rutland, t.,
street railway system, was killed early
yesterday when he was struck bv a taxi-
cab as he was crossing Columbus circle.
The chauffeur, John Ford, was arrested
on a charge ot homicide and committed
to the Tombs in default of bail.
Haley Well Known in Rutland.
Rutland. Dec. 4. Word was received
here yesterday that George S. Haley,
president of the General Engineering &
Management corporation of .New lork
and for more than 10 years manager of
tln Rutland Railway, Light & Power
ompanv, was instantly killed in Xew
York City at 1 o'clock yesterday morn
ing, when he was run down by a taxicab
running at a terntlc speed, the owner
of the machine, John Ford, was arrested
and the body of Mr. Halev was taken
yesterday afternoon to Buda, 111., where
his parents live.
Charles H. West, treasurer of the Rut
land company, E. L. Olney, a friend, and
I. M. Frost, who succeeded Mr. Haley
with the local company, left this after
noon for Xew York, and they will prob
ably go on to Buda for the funeral Tues
day. Mr. Halev had been attending a ban
quet at the Waldorf Astoria given to
President Woodrow Wilson in honor of
the illumination of the Statue of Liberty.
In Order to Help Along Food Poycotts
When Necessary.
V,ic- V,.rlf lVe J .An nronnwflti.ri of
foreigners except , hmis(Mviv,.s ti,rmlJk,h w-hich every cu-
sumer in this city may be reached '"vbf'n"
to establish a
bury on Friday, was brought to this ' 0f i,,t i "
city Saturday and taken to Ks,A, N. 0en. Francisco Murguia, the Carranza ,'.,. ,.,,,, is. :.,er
u herp tho tiinnrrsl nml lutrinl ni. i ...i.., i. . t " 1 " ' '1U
curred Srttoday. Mr. Mead was a na- j northward from Horreon. w as also re'
five of this city, the son of William a"'t ported to have entered the citv vetr
Sarah Mead, and was born at "1 Pearl day after having defeated the Villa col
street Oct. 10. He was, therefore, j umn 30 miles south of Chihuahua City.
7.1 years of age. He was the twin broth- I
er of the late Kdwin Mead and was the j
last to survive of six children, five boys 'FLOOD OF BILLS
and one girl, ror me past .m years .Mr.
Mead had resided at Essex, X. Y., but
recently he had lived with his son at
incident to W age. He is survived by Representative Fitzgerald of New York
AS CONGRESS OPENS
five children: Edward A. of Detroit,
Mich., Fred of Waterbury, Charles V. of
Washington, D. C, Mrs. H. E. Harring
ton and Mrs. Lillian Parkill of Essex,
X. Y.
SUICIDE AT FAIR HAVEN.
John Buckley Shot Himself When De
spondent Over 111 Health.
Introduced Four, Designed to Cut
the IHgh Cost of Foodstuffs.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 4. Congress
of weights and measures
The plan, Mr. Hartigan said, is to Jijve
at least one woman assigned to P!ch
the 42,000 square blocks here, who duty
it will be "to keep in touch wit), the
residents of that block and keel' tlipm
posted as to the prices of the vus
articles of food." The women, lie Hjdcd,
would work w-ith tire retail dealer. n far
as posfihle.
The Weights and Measures lea??W, an
organization numbering approximate'?'
22S.0IM) men. also will work in d-'iljuP0"
tion with the women, Mr. Hartife'B-n 8s"
scrted.
In addition to the boycott on P);gs
started several davs ago, the comrn'Ssiui'-
assembled at noon to-dHy for the short r announced that he expected M-jtiin
session marking the closing of President three weeks to begin a boycott on ttitt''r
Wilson's first term. With a crowded He added that he expected the bard of
program of legislation, foremost in which health to co-operate. Tho latter d'jwrt
is the president's plan for railroad leg-jment, he said, would begin "a nio e-,nl,nt
islation, senators and representative! set-i to educate the people on the use n.l
r 1... 1 ,Imii-m ii Ufirl- aa SdphL-pt ("lark nnj nlm-.a c,f nrrcs nml Hmdher on the Us., rtt
Fair Haven. Dec. 4. John Buckley, a !-:,.lv.i.r,w;,int Aiirst,ll bnmoh. Hown hntter" '"
resilient 01 mis ioii iu. nuniy fai. ,,;, veU Tn.rlnv'a ni.en it was
committed suicide Saturday, by shooting . A, anai V,,,,, nf i,m, nn,i
Thomas Brady t GraniteviUe, who
sustained injuries while employed as act
ing foreman at the J. K. Pirie quarry in
Wiiiianistowii Xov. 0, died at 1:30 o'clock
Sunday afternoon ut the City hospital,
w here ho had been a patient since the
accident occurred. From tlie outset it
was reuli.cd that the quarry foreman
was in a critical condition and shortly
after he arrived at the hospital physi
cians aseertained that the spinal cord
had been irreparably injured. Endowed
with a vigorous constitution, however,
tho patient made 11 courageous struggle
and us late as 10 days ago he surprised
those at his bedside, by regaining con
sciousness and recognizing members of
his furnily who were gathered there.
The accident which cost the quarryman
his life occurred near the noon hour. He
was standing on the brink of the quarry
while the derrick was being used to hoist
.1 large block of granite. It. was secured
with w hat "the qimrrymen call a "loose
liit'h," and us the block neared the fore
man, the chain suddenly snapped in
twain. One of the loose strands struck
Brady in tlie head and he toppled over
the edge of the quarry, falling a distance
of ,) feet.- Doctors were called and the
man was hurried to tlie hospital in an
ambulance. At the hospital the doctors
dresspd a slight wound on the lie;id and
attended to other abrasions. A danger
ous spinal injury caused the chief con
cern. Occasionally the patient showed
igns of raUving. bit tlie injury to his
spine ratised paralysis and from the be
ginning be was practicsllv helpless.
The deceased was well known among
the younger quarry workers of Millstone
hi" and had been employed at tlie Pirie
quarry for some time, more recently as a
substitute foreman. Some years ago he
was a salesman for John B. Kelly, a local
.merchant. Mr. Brady leaves his wife,
who wa Mi9 Xora" Batter of Port
Henry, X Y., and to whom he was mar
ried Vm Thanksgiving day in 1914. A
son, Edward, w as born to them three
months ago. He is also survived by his
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Brady
of Oraniteville; by two brothers. James
E. Brady and John W. Brady o Granite
viUe; and by two sisters. Mrs. Kate Don
ahue and Mrs. Anna Campbell, also of
Oraniteville. Mr. Brady was born in
Lyon Mountain, X. Y., in October, 1S0O.
As a small child he accompanied his par
ents to Granitevillo, where he lived for
25 years. He belonged to Court Rob Roy,
Xo" fi, Foresters of America, and to St.
Sylvester's church.
Services will be held at 10:30 to-mor-rnW
forenoon in St. Sylvester's church
in GraniteviUe with the Foresters in at
tendance Hurt the body will be taken to
morrow to Cadyvilie, N. Y., where, the
funeral will lie followed by interment in
the Catholic cemetery.
12 PEOPLE RESCUED.
at his home on Cedar street. He had
resolutions.
AN "OSBORNE" ARRESTEP-
oeen in poor henitn tor more tnan a year j r, K;na .i,,.;,, t t,i, ti mai . ... ...
and was despondent. He used a revolver 1 ',)f fo(, iltrmm,j I)V r. j I Charged wtth Misrepresenting
which he hail secured from a hoarder who
was in Burlington. The body was found
. . V.I 1 .1. . ' 1 .
in a storage sueu aim me rerun er ulate
under tho liody.
Mr. Buckley is survived by his wife,
two brothers, a sister. Mrs. Mary Melvin
of Granville, X. Y and two grsnddaugh-;
tcrs. The funeral will be held at St. I
Mary's church Tuesday morning at ! !
o'clock and burial will be made in the
Cedar Grove cemetery.
cpre-
sentative Fitzgerald of Xew York. Two
propose a food embargo, one would reg-
York Lawyer.
Chicago, Dec. 4. Detective hp;ulq,mr-
transportation of cold storage : tcrs announced last night that they ),nl
GERMAN WOMEN
WERE ALARMED
Igoixis and the toiirin would reguiaie me .arrested a man who has admitte til.'1
'admission of farm products and manu-jbe represented himself as James ()s-
f.tctured foodstuff to the parcels post; borne, a New oik lawyer, in cse8 Pa.d"
and reduce the rate on food. with Miss Bae Tanzer, as a result of
The energies of the leaders were at which misrepresentations Osborne1 w'S
once concentrated on the pu'Pect of big sued by her for $J."0.000 in March. InlS
supply bills necessary for The conduct I Xew York, Dec. 4. Several iri((ict
of the government and upon a limited ' men Is were returned in the federal cirts
program of general legislation. Speaker here as a result of the Tanzer-o-Nini'
Clark declared that the next House would suit, which was for S'ioO.ooo. Jani''s V
fhow 21fl Democrats and he conceded 213 Osborne, formerly an assistant d'strict
to the Republicans. "We will control attorney and long a prominent metrr
the House without any doubt," he said, jof the Xew York bar, made repeH,(.d
denials that he had ever represented nini
self to Miss Tanzer as "Oliver" 0.-lune,
as she swore on the witness stand.
Although the young woman and sev
eral of her witnesses pointed him ciq gs
the elusive suitor. Mr. Osborne de''brcd
Waterbury, Dee. 4. While Roy La- under oath that he had never scon lis
touche was driving home from the vil-jTanzer until they met in court. A hotel
lage la-t evening at about K o'clock m ! clerk who testified that he had seen ,j,
FOUND WOUNDED FAWN.
Now Waterbury Game Warden is on
Track of Shooter.
When They Learned They Would Be
Forced Into Factories as Result of
Home Army Bill.
London, Dee. 4. The passage of the
home army bill caused a panic throngh
....1 n. ,-);.. 1,. .. .,!.- u-i,n ; ., .. ,...,1.
ized that women would be forced into 'fawn ran across the road near the t ro- j lawyer an,t .miss i.hit loge, i-.t o one
.h. f..tmies e...,r.limr to nn Amster. Uettc farm. The animal was seen to I occasion later was indicted and convtel
ASSURANCES OF CO-OPERATION
Made to President Wilson by Democratic
Leaders.
Washington. D. C, Dec. 4. When Con
gress reconvened to-day. President Wil
son had assurances of Speaker Clark and
Representative Kitchen, majority leader,
that they would try to hasten the enact
ment of the railroad legislation desirid
by the admin-tration. Both have ex
pressed the opinion that measures to sup
plement the Adamson law could be
passed during the session.
ouuded and Latouche investigate 1. ! on a charge ot perjury.
company. 1 lie uispatcn says there was 1 '"""X " "" .. -
a demonstration of women, mostly ser- ne gi oiuer mum. ,....- i.aiut-n n. . ,.v , ,
v.nt and the wives of soldiers, outside !!- Parcrer to kill the animal, this morn- ' ' ,,,,n- . "7 ""'M - er .!,
of the Ch .rlottenburg tow n hall, protest- I '"i? the game warden took charge of the ;" have "' "' to Urt
ingagain,t the prov.sion of the measure I carcass and conducted an investigation. tage cireer. made thor hr- apPr-
- ' . . ' , , . 1 ... . 1 . . . a . n n,-.- I 1 t 1- r u f f en ne-. w hen t ho m ......
tie IS aul to oe I'll 1 ne iritcK 01 llic per - vui
s;i or persons responsible. People in the bers of the company presented to a Vge
neighborhood heard scooting about half ani1 appre.-ia-ne audieme in the Lillt-
nn hour lfore the wounded animal was I , '"'r T nooiiiou.-e i.niMmg. the May
d.im ilisouteh In tlie Exchange Telcranh 1 bt
and demanding bread and two days' leave
for all soldiers. The women alo de
manded peace, the dispatch says.
GREECE GUARANTEES
Fullest Protection for Nationals of the
Entente.
I-ondon, Dec. 4. The Greek govern
ment has announced that the fullest pro
tection will 1 given nationals of the en
tente, according" to an Athens dispatch to
Reuters. The government also guaran
tees that all legal rights of arrests!
found.
DEER HUNTER FINED.
entitled. "Heire-s Hunters. r.verr Seat
in the room was taken and the stafirljug
spa e in C e rear of the
psikel to its capacity, there luing ffoiii
7. to i-0 in att;ndaiii-e. The cit ly.n
taincd 14. and a few showed some v.rl-
good work in their acting, snl on
From Three-Story Tenement Block at
Lowell, Mass.
Lowell, Mass., Dec. 4. Twelve persons
.1 a
were removed ironi a mree-siory, in
tendment block at 20 Fenwick street last
night by firemen during a threatening
blaze. They included elderly men and
Several Polish women and children.
In tlie second story of the wooden
structure firemen and police found John
KovaUki, a middle-aged man, almost
overcome by smoke and heat from the
fire. He was restored to consciousness
and bis life saved, it is believed, by the
efforts of Patrolman Cossette. Mr. Ko
Valski was taken to the Corporation hos
pital, and the report was that he was
ready to lenve this morning.
The firemen had hard work to prevent
a Polish woman from leaping from the
third story with her child to the ground.
The firemen brought her to a place of
safety. AH the persons brought down
the ladder by the firemen and police are
suffering only from the effects of smoke.
The lire started in the store of George
Shott, and his loss is covered by insur
ance. Joseph Muraski also suffered loss
by damage to his furniture on the second
floor.
The loss by the fire is confined to ten
ants of the first and second stories of the
building. The building is owned by Miss
Mary Whotev of the Oakland district.
Uor "losS w ill'be about $1,000, covered by
insurance.
POLICE SUSPECT FIREBUG.
After Being Convicted of Killing a Deer
IllegaUy.
Mid. lb-bury. Dec. 4. Hav Pratt wasleral ot-ca-ion the actors hid to !. oil'-hed containing several hundred dollars
proceed of llic "rth of farm tools, besides ill valua-
For Destruction of Two Buildinga at
Danvers, Mass.
Danvors. Mas.. Dec. 4. Two fires at
an curly hours Sunday morning, be
lieved by the polite to have been incen
diary, caused g loss of aliout $10,000. As
bolli buildings were located nearly one
h,Uf mile from the main road the rire
ni(.n were at a disadvantage.
The first tire started at 1 a. m. at
Joseph Sa.o's house, of Andover street.
The bou-e was destroyed. Two largo
eats were bttrne 1 t. ileal h, while the in
flate of the hoii-e escaped with difficul
ty. The loss j. estimated at about $2lMH
and i partly covered by insurance.
The wontl tire started shortly after i
a. ni. t the farm owned by Joseph W.
Tra-k off Conunt street. A large barn
I containing abmit 7"i tons of hav and a
fined o(l and costs bv Judge Donowav loud ar-plaus. The
in municipal court Saturday aftctnocn evening s entert.iinm.nt will go to ,, : ble and three heifer, were burned,
after being convicted of kil'ing a de. r ' something of value 1 1 be p'.:c -,l jo 1 1, - A ! or' w.i burn m badly that it had
illegillv. The judge then suspen led one- school building. The i!.,v turn, d .. ..' t be shot. The l..s. estimated at $si.
Venizelista will be reicctcj. In palace jhalf the fine on condition that the c-.-tsbe o suct.stul tint ihe eo-npary :vfj'- lx!,'.v cofer.-l by insurn. Both the
circles it i said that normal relation 1 be paid. The respondent was given nn-(derided to pre-ent :t av Berlin t'ofKe.- I' rr!y and Iktnveis fire department
itli the allies have been re-established, td this afternoon to raise the money. in the near future. Hed t.
1
I
