The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of "Any Others Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in' Connecticut; in Proportion -to the City's Population.
'EUTOMC
THREATEN CRAIOVA
Its Capture Would Menace the Retreat of the Ru
manians Now Fighting in Transylvania
TEUTONS CONTINUE DRIVETHROUGH WALLACHIA
Tlie Fighting in Macedonia' From the Cema River to Lake
Presba Has Ended in a Complete Victory for the En'inte
Allied Troops, Paris Claims The German Artillery on
the Somme Front and in the Verdun Sector Have Heavily
Shelled British and French , Positions- Austrian Forces
Have Captured Italian Entrenchments on the Summit of
Hill 126 Cold Weather is Interfering-With Battles on
the Ruxsin Front.
' With th end of the first stage of
the Franco-Serbian campaign, which
resulted In the capitulation cf Monas
tir by the Bulbars and Germans and
a diminution of hostilities in . the
Somme region- of France, except for
bombardment and Isolated infantry
actions, Rumania has again become
the center of interest.
Driving eastward through western
Wallachia. the Auatro-German forces
are now reaching out for Craiova, ly
ing on tho railroad midway between
the Danube town of Orsova. Hungary,
and Bucharest. This manoeuvre ap
parently places a menace In the rear
to the retreat of the Rumanians light
ing In the north on Hungarian soli and
disputing with the Austro-Gerroan
th passages of the TraMylvartian
Alps leading to the plains of Wal
lachia. In the Jlul valley region the retire
ment of the Rumanians continues and
tn the Campulung sector Petrograd
reports that further Rumanian at
tacks against the Teutonic allies have
been unsuccessful. On the Danube
front In Dobrudja artillery engage
ments are In progress from Slllstrla
to Oltlna.
LANDSWEHR REJECTS ( APPEAL
OP OH EMI ANT LEADERS
Condemned to CeatR for High Treason
and Espionage in War Times.
. Vienna, via Berlin to London, Nov.
21, 1.10 a. m. The supreme Landswehr
court has rejected the appeal of the
Bohemian leaders. Dr. Kramarz, Dr.
Rosenhaln, Herr Cerylnka and Herr
Zamasol, who were condemned to
death for high treason and espionage
In war time. The death sentences
against the men therefore become
valid.
A despatch from Vienna June 4 said
Dr. Kramai and the other three
members of tho Hungarian Czech party,
who were charged with leading a
movement to bring "bout a rap
proachement between Bohemia and
Russia had been guilty and sentenced
to death. Dr. Kramarz is leader of
the Toung Czech. Dr. Rosenhain is
a deputy in the diet, Herr Zamasol is
a ' bookkeeper and Herr Cervlnka Is
the editorial secretary of the news
paper Narodny Llsty. After thir trial
King Alfonso appealed to Emperor
Francis Joseph in behalf of the con
victed men.
INCREASED PAY FOR COTTON
WORKERS IN NEW BEDFORD
10 Psr Cent. Effective For 8ix Months,
Beginning December 4.
New Bedford, Mass., Nov. 20. The
cotton Manufacturers' Association of
this city voted today to grant a ten
per cent. Increase In pay to their 33,
000 operatives to be effective for a pe.
rlod Of six months beeinnlne TVepm.
ber 4. The Increase Is the third with
in the calendar year and brings the to
tal advance within that time to 27 1-2
per cent. This is the biggest raise
within a year that the mill hands have
over received. It writ increase the to
tal annual payroll of the mills about
117,100,000 to approximately $19,000,-
00.
' The Manufacturers Association In
eludes only the cloth mills but the
yarn mills always have rollowed the
cloth mills In the past, so that labor
leaders expect the Increase to be gen
eral throughout the city.
JUDGE DISQUALIFIES HIMSELF
FROM PRESIDING AT TRIAL
- x
Of Miss Edith . Colby 'Reasons too
- Personal to be Explained.
Thompson Falls, Mont, Nov. 20.
Judge K. Lee Mcculloch or Banders
county disqualified himself today ra
ther than (preside at the trial of Miss
Edith Colbv, a newspaper woman.
enargea with the murder or A. J.
Thomas, a politician. ' John Manlre,
editor, and A. S. Alnsworth, manager
of tho paper on which Miss - Colby
worked, are held as accessories. Judge
MoCulloca said his reasons for not
desiring to preside at the trial were
too personal to bo explained and he
called Judge J. M. Clement .of Hel
ena to the bench.
The Manlre ease, which was set for
trial today, was' continued until to
morrow. 1
INDUSTRIAL 'WORKERS TO MAKEJ
TROUBLE FOR LUMBERMEN
Police" of Portland, Ore, Watchlnq All
Railroad Yards for Party of 100.
Portland, Oregon, Nor. 20.- Reports
that ' 100 members ' of the Industrial
Workers of tho World were en route
to Portland to make trouble for - a
parry or western ana soutnem . lum
bermen who were meeting hero to
Bay, tn revenge for tho shooting of
wousiruu woraers or xn worm
members .fa Everett, "Waartn, recently,
Pr mad to Chief cf Police John
Clark by detective. Folic watched
kU railroad yards. . .
ARMES
The fighting in Macedonia from the
Cema river to l ake Presba has ended
In a complete victory for the entente
allied trqc;s. says the Paris war of
fice. The Serbs have not yet entered
Monastlr, captured Sunday, the town
having been virtually destroyed, ac
cording to unofficial accounts. The
entente forces have occupied villages
north of the town and are declared to
be still In pursuit of tho Germans and
Bulgarians. Berlin says, however,
that the newly chosen positions se
lected for their retirement north of
Monaster have been entered by the
Germans and Bit Ig-irlans " without
pressure from their antagonists and
also that new German forces have
reached the fighting son.
The German artiUery on the Somme
front near Beaumont-Hamel and
'ueudeeouTt and on the Verdun sec
tor near Douaumont have heavily
shelled British and French positions.
Strong forces of Austrian in an as
sault on the summit of Hill US on
the Carso front of the Italian theatre
have captured Italian entrenchments.
Cold weather has set In on the Rus
sian front and as a consequence lit
tle fighting Is going on there.
ARABIA. WAS1- SVNKX :f
r -V BY GERMAN SU BMAR1 N;E
Announcement Made by Semi-official
Overseas gency.-:
"Washington, Nov. 20. nnouncement
by the semi-official' Overseas News
Agency that a German submarine
sank the P. & O. liner Arabia made
a deep impression in official quarters
here today and apparently removed
all possibility that this case might
tane its place witn that or the Per
sia, sunk In the Mediterranean long
ago In some manner never cleared up.
The British admiralty said the Persia
was torpedoed without warning, but
none of the central powers would ad
mit responsibility for it.
Officials were loath to discuss the
matter in tho absence of official in
formation which, it Is understood, is
being sought from all sources. Some
of them expressed surprise, however,
that the attack upon the Arabia had
been semi-officially admitted. It was
suggested that the Overseas despatch
might mean that Germany was pre
paring to make a test in this of the
armed ship controversy with the
United Sates or that In some way a
minor official," hostile to Chancellor
von Bethmann-Hollweg's submarine
policy, might have allowed the res
patch to get out, seeing in it an op
portunity to force the Issue. It has
been known here for some time that
Germany would make a hitter fight
aeainst the defensive arming of mer
chant ships.
A. F. OF L. OPPOSED
TO STRIKE INJUNCTIONS
Objects to Decision That Classifies
Labor as Property. -
Baltimore, ' Nov. 20. The organized
labor forces of the country today
avowed extreme hostility to the writ
of Injunction as a means of stopping
a strike. First, a resolution was
adopted unanimously at tho morning
session of the convention of the Amer
ican Federation of I.abor, urging or
ganized labor everywhere to make the
injunction question Pthe paramount
Issue in all of their future political
activities." 1
A more radical step was taken at
the afternoon session when the com
mittee on the executive committee's
report took up that feature of that re
port dealing with the decision of the
Massachusetts supreme court classi
fying labor as property. The commit
tee submitted, and the convention un
animously adopted, a recommendation
"that any injunction dealing with the
relationship of employer and employe
.and based on the dictum that labor'!
property, be disregarded, let the con
sequences be what they may." -
CARGOES TO VALUE OF $1,000,000
BROUGHT FROM NOME
By Last Two Vessels of the Season
1,500 Persona Wintering There.'
Seattle, "Wash., Nov. 20, The liners
Victoria and Uhatilla, the last vessels
to leave Nome this season, arrived In
Seattle today with BOO passengers,
21,000,000 in gold bullion and ship
ments of tin ere t and furs. Fifteen
hundred ieop1o are -wintering in
Nome, which I now closed In by the
Ice.
POSSES WITH BLOODHOUNDS
8EAROHING FOR MURDERER
Of Two Women at Lexington, Tnn-
Both Shot to Death.
Lexington, Tenn, Nov. . 20. Posses
with bloodhound began a search to
day for the slayer of Mrs. Callle Hav
ener, aged 22. and Mrs. Rebecca oBat
right, aged Si, who were found shot to
death at the home of tho latter v ester
day. The authorities believe robbery
mi cn mouvo oz tn crime.
: Cabled Paragraphs
.'. ... .''' :t.vo-m
.Germany Return Mail Bags.
Amsterdam, via London, Nov. 20,
5.40 p jn. The Handelsbad states ths
Germany has returned the mail bag' ; ."
the steamer Koenigin Begentcs,
of which were destined for New "11-k.
Situation in Greece is Grave.
.London, Nov. 20. 10.53 p. dl. A Reu.
tar despatch from Athens dated Sun
day says that the situation in Greece
is of the gravest importance. "The
nature of the allied demands formu
lated Saturday," says the correspond
ent, "are concealed, but it Is inferred
that they took the form of an ultima
tum, expiring tomorrow."
8HAKEUP IN HARTFORD
. FIRE DEPARTMENT.
Six Members Retired, - Ten Promoted
and On Demoted 11 New Members.
Hartford, Conn., Nov. 20. The big
gest shakeup in the Hartford fire de
partment In years occurred tonight,
when three captains, one lieutenant
and two privates were retired. . One
lieutenant was demoted. ' Three lieu
tenants were promoted to be captains,
seven privates were made lieutenants
and eleven new privates appointed.
APPROVAL OF THE BOY .
SCOUTS OF AMERICA
Expressed by the Massachusetts State
Branch of tho A. F. of L. :
Boston, Nov. - 20. Approval of the
Boy Scouts of America xv-as expressed
tn a communication sent tonight to
Samuel Gompers, president of - the
American Federation of Labor, by a
special investigating committee of the
state branch. The investigation was
the outcome cf the action of the 4-x-eciitlvA
rniinril nf HlatA hranrh of
the federation which, at its meeting a (
month ago, condemned the Boy Scout;
movement because of the published
version of an address by a scout lead
er in Cambridge. This version was
construed "by officials of the state
branch aa showing a hostile attitude
by scout leaders towards union labor,
and resolutions were adopted calling
upon labor men to forbid their sons to
affiliate with the Boy Scouts.
Bcout leaders claimed that the re
port of the Cambridgo meeting was In
correct. A -committee of the state
branch of the American Federation,
headed by Martin T. Joyce, secretary
treasurer, thereupon made an investi
gation and tonight sent their report to
President Gompers. The report said
In part:
"We find that tho leaders of the
Boy Scout movement of this vicinity
are men of sterling character- and
have the welfare of the boys' future at
heart; they have invited representa-J
Uvea of the trade , union movement to
take an active part in helping thorn
to make. better men and citizens of the
boys." : -
The committee r!so stated that- H
would present, a recommendation to
tho December meUiiif of the ecutlyJ
council mat union omciais Keep . m.j
toucn with tne Boy yjcout movement to
prevent its brtng directed towards
militarism and to foster a closer and
sympathetic attitude toward organized
labor. .
SWITZERLAND SEND8 FORMAL
PROTEST TO GREAT BRITAIN
Against Seizure of Official Swiss Docu
ments at Falmouth.
Berlin, Nov. 20 (By Wireless to Say
ville) The National Zeltung. of Basle
reports that Switzerland formally pro
tested to Great Britain against the
seizure by British authorities at Fal
mouth of official Swiss documents
which were beinft carried by a courier
from Basle to Washington, say the
Overseas News agency. The National
Zeltung adds that tte parcels then
were released by the British authori
ties. .,-
- Jules Metzger. the Swiss courier, ar
rived in New York on . the steamer
Noordam Oct. 31 and reported the
seizure of the documents at Falmouih.
The Swiss minister at Waehlr-gton in
formed the state department of the
seizure, but mado no suggestions con
cerning it.
ENTIRE BRUSSELLS CITY
- COUNCIL ARRESTED
For Refusing to Surrender Lists of
the City's Unemployed.
- London, Nov. 21. A despatch to' the
Daily News from Rotterdam says:
"The entire Brussels city council,
with the aldermen, were ' arrested the
seventeenth for refusing to surrender
lists of the city's unemployed. They
were released after twenty-four hours,
when it was -found that the lists had
been taken by- the Germans. - ,
"As far as is known at Rotterdam,
no deportations from Brussels had oc
curred as late as Saturday."
NEW FREIGHT YA1D
OPENED IN'HARTFORD.
Over 600 Car Are on Sidings There
. ' Awaiting Unloading.
Hartford, Conn"Nov. 20.- The New
Haven road today opened a. new
freight Vard in the Parkvillo section of
the city, having trackage for 120 cats.
It will cater to the needs of that very
large manufacturing section, along the
main line, and is expected to material
ly relieve congested freight conditions.
There are something ovor 600 cars on
sidings here awaiting unloading. -"..,.
GRANGE UNANIMOUS
. FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE
Action Taken by National Body in
Session t . Washington. :
Washington, ; Nov. 20. Universal
woman suffrage by federal enactment
was endorsed unanimously by the Na
tional Grange at its meeting here to
night. ' Similar action was taken by
the grange a year ago, but with a
large minority opposing.
Movements of Steamships. m
London, Nov. 18. Arrived, steamer
Ascania, Montreal. - - .,
Liverpool, Nov. 19. Arrived, steam
ers Baltic, New York; St. Louis, New
York. Sailed, 18th, steamer Philadel
phia, New York.- .. .
Christiansand, Nov.- 18, Sailed,
steamer Frederlk VIIL New York. ,
Chrlstiania, Nov. 14. Arrived,
steamer Bergensfjord, New York. '
New York, Nov. ' ' 20. Signalled:
Steamer - Dante - Aleghieri,' Genoa for
New York. Dock 8,90 a. m. Tuesday.
Torrington. Beginning Monday,
Nov. 20, the barber shops will close at
7.80,-Saturdays excepted.
No JfJnge in the
jfdriuirrage Charge
SUSPENDED BY THE INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMERCE
UNTIL MARCH 31 NEXT
Owing to Pretest by Shippers the Com -fhlssion
Postponed Operation of the
; Proposed ' New Rats Pending ' In
, vestlgatlon of Cause of Freight Car
. 8hortag.
Washington, Nov. 20. Tariffs filed
by railroads, in, official southern- and
western classification territories, -proposing
increased demurrage charges to
check the freight car shortage, were
suspended by the interstate commerce
commission today until March 31 next.
The present demurrage charges' of
virtually all roads is $1 per day after
free time allowance. Following he
general complaint of acute shortage of
equipment in all sections of the coun
try,, several roads began, filing tariffs
providing for , increased charges for
demurrage to facilitate the release of
cars by. shippers- The shippers protested-,
as they did on a previous oc
casion when an increased demurrage
charge was proposed, - The commis
sion now has suspended the new rates
pending further investigation,
v The Proposed Tariffs. - -
The proposed tariffs would provide,
after the usual free time allowance,
charges of $2 for the first day or frac
tion, $3 for the second day, 24 for the
third, and 25 for the fourth and each
succeeding day:
STEFANSSON FEARS OPPOSITION
; OF THE BLOND ESKIMOS.
Party Has Had a-Falling Out and Will
Have to Guard Camps. - ;
New York, Nov. JO. Fear that blond
Eskimos may prove a menace to his'
expedition are expressed "by Viihjalmur
Stefansson, the explorer, in a letter
written from Capt Kellett, Bank' Isl
and, in the Arctlij, and received today
by Dr. Herbert J. Spinden, assistant
curator of anthropology at the Ameri
can Museum of Natural History In this
city, Stefansson wrote in party:
"We have had a f Riling out with the
blond Eskimo (Kanghirynarmint),
which Is exceedingly unfortunate, ' I
sent the captain of the Polar Bear to
them and he treated them as If they
were civilized and knew we are a su
perior order .of . beings to them, ; They
did not know it ar.d would not act on
thatl basis, LHtlo led -to.TOBroondlng
with e&Pfri oping n captain's party
6f all they had, down to their , drinking
eups and plate.
"To make matter tenfold worse,
they got a severe cold (Influenza or
whatever you call it) and the last we
knew they were on the verge of star
vation because illnes had prevented
hunting. 1 This wo learned from two
men who came to see us from Ramsay
Island. -
"Others were afraid to come. . They
believed we gave them influenza by
witchcraft and prayed us, by deputa
tion, to relieve, the epidemic.
"Should death occur, either from dis
ease or starvation, the break with them
will be serious. ' For the present, they
profess great friendliness for me per
sonally. '
"I had hoped to stay with them
some months for study, but now we
shall have to guard our houses and
camps."
SYRIAN MEN AND WOMEN
WERE ROBBED BY VILLA.
Little Party Made Its Way Through
Mountains Infested With Outlaws.
Douglas, Ariz., Nov. 20 Jorge Jat
tar, formerly a prosperous merchant of
Guerrero, Chihuahua, and a party of
fourteen Syrian men, women and chil
dren arrived in Douglas" today after
riding horseback from Guerrero to
Nacozari, Sonora, 75 miles south of
here.
Jattar exhibited J500 at the immi
gration station, which he said was all
he and the others had following a raid
by Francisco Villa at the head of a
band of 300 about thirty days ago.
Villa cursed foreigners. Jattar said,
and jie and his friends lost no time in
escaping. They abandoned everything
except a few hundred dollars and some
food.
For almost a month the little party
made its way ; through rough moun
tains infested with outlaws.
ARMGAARD KARL GRAVES
HELD IN $2,000 BAIL
On Charge of Attempting to Blackmail
Countess Von Bernstorff.
New York, Nov. 20. Armgaard Karl
Graves, the so-called "international
spy," who is held in 22,000 bail on a
charge of., attempting to blackmail
Countess von Bernstorff, wife of the
German ambassador, took out his first
citizenship papers 'here today. His
attorney explained that Graves feared
an attempt by the German government
to get possession of his . person, and
said that as a citizen he could demand
protection of this government.
BURGLARIES AND HOLDUPS
: ' FREQUENT IN BRIDGEPORT.
Two Masked Men Rob Cash Register
s of Grocery Store of $260.
'.Bridgeport, Conn., Nov. 20. Two
masked men tonight entered a grocery
store in West avenue, held a revolver
to the head of tha proprietor, Mrs.
John Crouse. and robbed the cash
register of S2C0. A similar afair oc
curred In the neighborhood Saturday
night, when 2$i was stolen.
Two burglaries of - private houses
were also reported to the police to
night, the value of the booty amount
ing to $800 and more. .
OBITUARY.
Charles Spalding Langdon.
Iiartford, Conn Nov. "20. Charles
Spalding Langdon, assistant ' secretary
of the National Fire Insurance . -company
In thi city, v died -. yesterday of
heart disease. He was 70 years of age
and of distinguished colonial ancestry,
lie had been cith tho insurance com-
lany since its organization In 1871
iind . wrote th first- policy. Hi -wife
aua tnree sons survive. , .. -
Trainmen Visit
President Wilson
TO AID GOVERNMENT IN FIGHT
ING INJUNCTION SUITS
ON THE ADAMS ON LAW
Brotherhood Leaders Are to Address
tho American Federation of Labor
In Convention In Baltimore Today
Adamson to Prepare .a- Bill for Ad
ditional Legislation.
Washington, Nov. 20. Heads of the
railroad employes brotherhoods who
are determined that the Adamson
eight hour law shall not be broken
down conferred here today with Pres
ident Wilson, Attorney General Greg
ory and ihelr legislative representa
tives, declared their purpose to aid the
government in every way in fighting
injunction suits against the law and
made further plans for perfecting a
working agreement with their allies,
Che railroad men of the American Fed
eration of Labor.
Cas Next Thursday in Kansas City
When the government attorneys, G.
Carroll Todd, assistant to the attorney
general; Attorney-general Undewood
and Frank Hagerman appear in the
federal court at Kansas City next
Thursday to oppose the Union Pacific
and Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
suits against the Adamson law, they
will be flanked by representatives of
the brotherhoods. It is probable that
the four brotherhood heads themselves
will be there.
To Address A. F. of L.
Great significance 13 attached to the
announcement today that the brother
hood heads will address the American
Federation of . Labor convention in
Baltimore tomorrow. Never before in
the history of the two ' organization
have any of their members met In Joint
session, but their meeting at Baltimore
will be the result of a carefully work-ed-out
agreement that the two forces
shall Join hands In working for the
general betterment of the organized
lailway employes.
Railroad executives figured only in
conspicuously in today's activities here.
Their representatives appeared before
tne senate interstate commerce com
mittee and learned that their spokes
man would be heard first on the rail
road prdblem generally on next
Thursday. Brotherhood representa
tives may appear before the commit
tee, later but so far have not Indicat
ed formally their Intention to do sor -'
t': Conference in Evansvltle, Ind.-:
President Wilson ' told members of
a committee of the Kvansville, Ind.,
cnamoer or commerce wno called dur
ing the day to tell him that there
would be a middle states conference
on the railroad situation In their city
in .December, tnat he hoped there
would be similar discussions of the
problem In other parts ot the United
States and that he wished all business
men would investigate the question in
an open-minded way.
After their fifteen-minute conference
with the president the brotherhood
heads would admit only that they had
congratulated Mr. Wilson on his re
election. Warren S. Stone, head of the
engineers, declared that he could not
tell now whether a strike would be
caled If the eight hour aw was not put
into eirect January nrst.
"We can tell that better later." he
said.
Additional Adamson Legislation.
Representative Adamson went over
plans for railroad legislation fully
with the president. Afterward he
said he had no doubt that the eight
hour aw would be upheld by the
courts as constitutional, adding that
the measure was very carefully fram
ed by lawyers fully familiar with the
situation and with the constitution.
I have a bill prepared for addition
al legislation to meet the situation
which I probably will introduce as soon
as . congress convenes," he said. ,
MADE FLIGHT TO
CONGRESS BY BIPLANE
Representative-elect O. - D. Bleakley
Flew From Philadelphia to Wash
ington. Washington, Nov. 20. O. D. Bleak
ley of Franklin, Pa., representative
elect, made an air flight from Phila
delphia to Washington in his own bi
plane, piloted by Sergeant William C.
Ocker of .the "United States army.. Mr.
Bleakley declared - he was ""the first
man to come to congress by aero
plane." About two hours were consumed in
actual flying and one stop was made
in the suburbs of "Baltimore. The
machine circled Washington Monu
ment several times before alighting.
MISSING YALE BOYS .
FOUND IN LUMBER CAMP
Matthew Dick and Paul Martin, Son
.' of Wealthy Chicago Families.
Chicago, Nov. 20. Matthew Dick
and Paul Martin, sons.of wealthy Chi
cago families, who departed from Yale
Nov. 4 after notifying their parents
that they had set out to make their
fortunes without the benefit of family
influence, were found today in a lum
ber camp north of Prince Albert, Sask.
A. B. Dick and William P. Martin,
fathers of the two boys, are now on
their way otthe northwest to endeavor
to persuade the boys to return to their
studies. . . . ' ' . .
GREEK GOVERNMENT TO
. PROTEST NEUTRAL ZONE
In
Which the French Would Guard
. and Administer Affairs. "'
Athens, Nor. 18, vta London, .Nov.
20, 2.11 p. m. The Greek govrnment
was expected formally to protest this
afternoon the formation of a neutral
zone between two sections, of the
country in which only one government
officially exists. Tho French will
guard the zone and also administer
Servia, Grevena and other towns in it.
Y- Fall Into Elevator Pit Fatal.
Bridgeport, Conn., Nov. 20. Thomas
Congdon, aged -69, died this afternoon
at St. Vincent's hospital of a fractured
skull following a fall into an elevator
pit 'at the locomobile company work.
srka
or.
He tried to leave a moving elevator.
Condensed Telegrams '
Exoorts from New York last month
amounted to 1238,474,910.
- Philip Braender, of White Plains, N.
"1 who died on November 4 last, left
an estate of 11,000,000.
. Th freight steamer Sekstant was
reported aground off Hoffman Island,
in Lower New York Bay.
Th steamer Sixaola, cf the United
Fruit Co., arrived at New York from
Guatemala, and Santiago, Cuba.
The power house at the New Hamp
ton, Industrial Farm, near Mlddletown,
N. YM was. entirely destroyed by fire.
r-.-. , -- A .
'Continued Improvement In the con
dition of Mrs.' Inez Milholland Bois
sevaln was reported at Los Angeles.
: C bar lea E. Hughea arrived at Lake
wood, N. J-, where he intends to spend
three weeks playing golf,, walking and
resting. .
t Brigadier General Robert K. Evans,
commander of the Hawaiian Depart
ment, retired from active service on,
account of age.
Mrs. Margaret Richardson, and her
daughter Bessie, lost their lives when
their residence was destroyed by fire at
Henryvllle, Ind. .
John Hepp, a porter employed In the
New York Municipal Building, was ar
rested, charged with stealing scores of
articles from offices,
A skeleton found In the woods near
Phlllipsburg, N. J was Identified by
the clothing as that of Edward Ram
say, of Philadelphia.
Th Illinois Central Railroad Co.
filed an action In the United , State
Court at Louisville to test the validi
ty of the Adamson law.
An American in British Guiana
cabled the State Department askinff
who was elected President. He pre
paid a reply of five words.
Demands for a minimum increase ot
$2 . a week In pay of operators were
made by the . Amalgamated Clothing
Workers' Union of America. - "
Dr. Charles Edward- Vail, a graduate
of Princeton, ha presented . to the
University a mounted royal Bengal
tiger, which he shot in India.
President Wilson motored to Fort
Myer, Va. and reviewed an exhibition
cavalry drill, given for the benefit of
the Army Relief Association.'
The State Department waa advised
of the arrival In Petrograd tof Butler
Wright, recently appointed counsellor
of the Aemrlcan embassy there. :
Joseph Wilson, a miner, brother of
tho Secretary of Labor.i-wa'sr'kile4 In
the St. Benedict ''mine "of the Carrol
ton -Coal Co, near Johhatown,JPa.
Thousand of aooka ' stuffed with
Christmas gifts, are to be presented to
the American troops at the border and
In Mexico through the Red Cross.
About 1,000 additioanl men will be
employed by the Union Iron Works of
San Francisco in the bui'dlng of six
destroyers for the United States Navy.
The Italian government has Joined
the other Entente powers in protesting
against the action of Germany in pro
claiming Russian Poland an independ
ent state. -
Mrs. Joseph Bristow. of Oyster Bay.
L. I. is suffering from a shock as the
result of a shot being fired through a
window on a Long Island train near
Freenvale.
The final drive for the $2,000,000
needed by the Federation for the Sup
port of Jewish Philanthropic Societies
wHl be launched in the week of De
cember 3-10.
No other aovernment action in Great
Britain during the war has command
ed such immediate and almost unani
mous support as has the decision to
control food supplies and prices.
The Rev. Dr. Christian F. Reisner,
pastor of Grace M. E. Church, New
X-ork, distributed apples to his con
gregation to illustrate his sermon on
Apples Announcing God s Good. .
The annual nation-wide sale of Red
Cross seals ,by which it is hoped to
realize 21,000,000 this year to carry
on the fight against, tuberculosis in the
United States, will begin December 1.
A special budget appropriation of
$17,000 for extensive improvements in
the City College Lewisohn Stadium
and the gymnasium building has been
authorized by the Board of Estimate.
. Navy Department officials are pre
paring to -use at the Philadelphia,
Norfolk and " Bremerton Yards the
$6,000,000 provided by Congress for
the equipment of navy yards for ship
construction.
The personal election statement of
United States Senator-elect William A.
Calder, filed with the Secretary of
State recorded no receipts, and contri
bution of $1,589 for postage, clerk hire
and advertising.
A wine merchant of Rheims, named
Gou'den, was convicted by the court
martial of the Sixth Region of ship
ping 360 cases of champagne, valued
at $8,000. to the German Emperor by
way of Buenos Aires. '
Examination of thirty -seven men at
the resumption yesterday of the trial
of John Edward Teiper, at Buffalo,
N. Y., charged with the murder of his
mother added only one more juror to
the list of nine accepted last week.
-. - . - - -v- - 41 -
- Canada's determination to waare war
to a triumphant issue, - wldiout truce
or-inconclusive peace, was emphasized
by Si Robert L. Borden, premier of
Canada, In a speech -at a dinner of the
Canadian Club of .New York in New
York. . : ,..
Admiral Caperton, commander of the
Pacific fleet, : notified - the Navy De
partment that he had dispatched the
collier Saturn to the aid. of the Amer
ican steamship Anvil, reported disabl
ed and leaking off San - Jose Cabo,
Lower California.
Nov Scotian 8ehoonar Lost. ' ..
- Parrsboro, N. S., Nov. 20. The Nova
Scotian schooner Kenneth Cv bound
from Liverpool to Halifax in ballast,
is a total loss off the coast of Ire
land," according -to cable despatches
received tonight from Liverpool. Cap
tain Charles MeDnde and th crew
tain Charles
were rared. ;
-"-
ARMOR PLATE CONTRACTS AWARDED
By Secretary Daniels for the Four Battleships Author
, ' ized by Congress at Last Sssion
PLANS APPROVED FOR
The Bethlehem and Carnegie Steel Companies Are Each
Awarded One-Half of the Work The Prices Offered
Were Approximately' the Same as Those Paid Threi
: Years Ago When the Pennsylvania Was Built -The Ap
propriatkm Sub-Committee of the House Naval Commit
tee is at Work on the 1918 Estimates, Which Will b
the Heaviest in American History.
Washington, " Nev. 20. While Bee-"1
retary Daniels was awarding con
tracts today for J armor plate for tho
four battleships authorized by con
gress at the last session and approv
ing plans for an ammunition ship, th
last vessel designed for the 1917 build
ing plan, the appropriation sub-eom-mitfec
of the house naval committee
began work on the 1918 estimates, the
heaviest In American history, to be
presented to congress-this winter.
The navy department's 1918 flguref
contemplate construction of half of
the ships yet to be bulTt In the great
three year programme, and show to
tal appropriations of $879,151,781. or
more thnn $66,000,000 In excess of the
record total appropriated last summer.
Contracts Awarded.
Contracts for the armor plate, which
t'l go on the Colorado, Maryland,
Washington . and West Virginia, wer
wrdM , to . the. Bethlehem and Car
negie Steel -companies, each receirTn;
tialf of tht.work. 'A statement an
alyzing tho contracts say that 3
spite the unnrecedented European de
mand for plata. the prices offered
w-r ftpproxtmntely the same as those
rj. it vear nteo when the Penn
elyvanfa was being constructed. The
"t nre: Armor pTate, class A-t,
14.479.2 ton to each cnmnnnv at $421
a ton to Bethlehem and $425. to Car
nejle: 820 tons of A -9 clnas to each
at X46S a ton to Bethlehem and $460
to Carnegie.
Warship to Be Constructed.
Tho Department estimates before the
house fub-clramlttee call for fund to
bVtrln eonftruetlon of h,le battl
M) --one- battle. .crtilser..jju- scone
crolperst; sixteen destroyer," four fleet
submarines, four coast submarines,
one mibmnrine tender and one des
troyer tender. It is Understood thnf
the rary general board urged that the
two tattle cruisers remaining on ,the
three year "programme and four of
tne six battleships be placed In the
19TS estimates. The department d
Cided. however, to divide the new
eenstrucion eoiially. between tho
1918' and 1919 bills. ,
$1,500,000 Increase For Fleet Ammuni
tion. Rear. Admiral Strauss, chief of ord
rance, appeared before the sub-committee.
Explaining . an increase in
his estimates . of $1,500,000 for fleet
ammunition, he said the cost of pro
jecriies and other ordnance material
had increased that much since, con
gress provided $13,000,000' for tho pur
pose last year. Prices of - smaller
shells, he said, were going down, in
dicating a decreasing demand from
Europe, but largo shells of the four-teen-inch
size used by the navy show
ed & 20 per cent, increase over last
year's quotations.
Navy -Yards as Storehouses. .
At another point Admiral Strauss
outlined the department's scheme for
storing in navy yards guns and am
munition with which - to equip mer
chant steamers as naval auxiliaries in
time- of war. More than $3,000,000
for the purchase of guns and mount
ings for - this purpose was provided
last- year, and this year the depart
ment seeks $1,500,000 for ammuni
tion. "
TRAINMEN'S AFFILIATION .
WITH THE A. F. OF L.
Regarded aa More Than a Possibility
by Federation Leaders
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 20. Affiliation
of the fpur railroad brotherhoods with
the American Federation of Labor as
a eeparate body waa regarded as more
than a possibility tonight by influential
federation leaders. It was reported on
reliable authority th-.t representatives
of the railways department of the
federation had conferred with officials
of the brotherhoods looking to an af
filiation of all railway men with the
federation. Two separate organizations
of railway employes, with membership
in the federation tfiat would give
them the support of the organized la
bor forces of the coantry in any ef
fort to advance the interests of all
organized railway workers, was the
plan, according to information obtain
ed tonight. - -
It has been arranged that the presi
dents of the four brotherhoods shall
place their case before the federation
convention at tomorrow's session.
WORD THAT TH E STEAM ER
RAPPAHANNOCK HAS BEEN SUNK
. , , - - ...
Sailed from Liverpool Oct. 19 Has
- Been Posted as Missing, v
Halifax, -N5 S.," Nov. 20, Word was
received from London tonight that the
overdue Furness. line steamer Rappa
hannock had been sunk by Germans.
No word has been heard, of Captain
Garrett and crew of forty men and the
fear was expressed that they had per
ished. - The Rappahannk , sailed from
this port for Liverpool Oct-' 19 and for
ten daya has been posted as missing.
The cable says that word of the loss
came from Berlin.
, Killed by Fall Down Stairs. X
Hartford, Conn- Nov. " SO.- James
Connors of No. .80 , South . Prospect
street was killed by a fall down stairs
at his home today. His neck wrs
broken. Connors was a city employe
and ie fatality occurred when he was
leaving his. home to go to work.
AN AMMUNITION SHIP
' Antl-Aireraft Gun.'. '. "'
rrho department also recommend4
the installation o afantl-aircraft arunt
Lat naval station, magazines and radi
stations tbc pending estimates pro
viding $1,000,000 for this purpose. It
iv Ji take more than 100 of ri navy's
three-inch calibr gun for thi pur
pone. .
Naval Gun Factory Making Torpdot
Admiral Strauss said the naval gun
factory was now producing torpe
does, the first deliveries, however, ex
ceeding tn cost the prices quoted by
private manufacturers. It 'is expect
ed that the factory will get It cost
considerably . belay th commercial
rate with its next delivery. . At pre- :
ent the cost of manufacture t icced
quotatiops by from $600 to $1700 per
torpedo, depending on the system of
calculations employed. At th New
port station, where the bulk of tha
navy's torpedoes are produced, the ad- -mireJ
snid. the cdtt of production was
from $1,000. to $2,100 below the best
prices obtained from private manu
facturers. .
Admiral Straus wm appear before
the committee again tomorrow and
will be followed K other bureau chief
and finally by f$rretary Daniel and
member of the general board. ! ,
. 'Ammunition Ship.,
The ammunition ship for which the
secretary plans is the first craft of
the kind ever designed for the navy..
She will have. a displacement of 10, r
000 tons with a cargo of powder and
shells. Special facilities . are provid
ed for handling , explosives -.vaboard.
and the hod win be equipped with
cooling faculties -to- Insure the rogu-.
lation of temperature. . Large re
frigeration spaces will make her easi
ly convertible into a supply ' vessel.
Propelling machinery Is designed for
either coal or fuel oiL 'A defensive
armament Includes " four' five-inch
rapid fire guns and two t-mch. anti
aircraft' guns. - Bid are being- asked
from shipbuilders and the. department
hopes to be able to open them by the
first of the year. :-."'."" r '"
Modification of Submarine Bid. :
Secretary -Daniels said today 'he had
arranged to . confer with , represent-,
tives of the ' Electric Boat company
in an effort to seek modifications of
their pending submarine - bids. This
company offered to construct ' 24 or
more submarines, deliveries to begin
within 25 months and .proposed at
much higher cost to have th deliv
eries begin within fifteen months.
The department determined to place
the submarine construction on not
more than a 22 month basis and will
urge the Electric company to agree to
this. ,
Representative of the Seattle Con
struction and Drydock company aUo
will confer with the daperament of
this Wednesday. This company sub
mitted the only proposal that cams
within the law for the construction of
a scout cruiser. With the cotract for
one scout cruiser given to the Seattle
company, the department ' still faces
the problem of p'fcclng the construc
tion of the remaining three vessels
of this type and Secretary Daniels is
planning to return to congress for
an additional appropriation for ?th
building ef these ships.
NEW FOOD CONTROL
REGULATIONS IN ENGLAND.
Orders Dealing With Wheat and Milk
Operative Nov. 27.
London. Nov. "20, 10.80 p." m. -The '
board of trade has begun work speed
ily under the new food control regu
lations. .Two orders have been Issued,
which will come into operation Nov.
27, dealing with wheat and milk. One
regulates the percentage cf flour which
may be milled from wheat, varying
for the different qualities from 73 to
,78 per cent., and stipulates that, after
Jan. 1 only flour made in accordance
with this schedule may be used . for .
the making of bread or arttc"j l
food. .
The milk order fixes a maximum
price not exceeding . the price which
prevailed on Nov. 15, or, alternatively,
that the price may be not exceeded by.
more than a specified - amount . the .
price which prevailed, in the ..corre-':
sponding month before ; the war, this
amount being twopence per quart.'
This order makes the maximum price
approximately sixpence per quart. The
order does 'not apply to condensed or,
" ....... v. .... .ra lCUChbVU.
FIGHTING.BETWEEN CARRANZA
AND BANDIT FORCES
South of Chihuahua City TeYegraphio
. Communications Sevrd. V w-' T
Laredo, Texas, . Nov' 20. Serious'
fighting between' Carranza and bandit
forces south of Chihuahua City is re
ported unofficially in Nuevo Laredo
tonight. - While,, the report -was Im
possible of confirmation, It was known -that-'
telegraphic communication has
been severed' south of Chihuahua City
and also' that means of communication
north t of Torreon. have been cut. .
Five Year Old Boy Killed In Hartford.,
- Hartford, Conn., Nov- 20. Herbert'
W.. Bradbury, -the 5 .year old .eon of
Prof. G. E. Bradbury, of thff Hart-"
ford High -school, was killed tonight
when he was Mtrtirk by an automobile
driven by J. T. Kennedy; an insurance
broker. Bystanders tay the accident
was unavoidable, the boy dodging sud
denly in front of the madun. .,,
i
-'4
