THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and colder to-day; to-morrow fair
freah northarly wind.
Highcit ttrnpirttuM yoUrd.-, lewtit, 36.
Detailed weather, mill indmirlne report on page is.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 82.
NEW . YORK, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by (fie Sun Priifltifl and PiiblUMiip isoclallon.
ONE CENT
Jersey City and Newark. ) TWO CENTO.
TWO RUMANIAW'fFiiiVENIZELOSTELLS
XI 11 m Li V ll 11 J tfivip
CITY IN DANGER
100.001) Mon May Be Cut Off
As Teutons Drive On
Toward Craiova.
LINK OK RETREAT
IX ENEMY'S HANDS
Tli roe Austro-German Col
umns Are Closing In on
Ferdinand's Troops.
STILL RETIRING
IN .FIT VALLEY
Berlin Sn.v.v lluiuauiaus
Lose Heavily in Vain
Counter Attacks.
LnNuox, Nov. 20. A never Ril
gi.mlju defeat, which may be a dla-
tHex. Is Indicated by to-day' Herman
official report. German and Austrian
tiiHipH are approaching Craiova, the
capital of western Wallachla and one
of Itum.inla'x largest cities.
Two Rumanian armies nf combined
strength estimated nt more than 100,
O'.O men arc Imperilled by thla altun
tlcn The army at Ornova appear to
I.- cut off, white the army In the JIu
Vallry Is In danger of a flanking at
tsik. Cratoa's fall would mean that the
Teutons had practically conquered one-thl-d
of Wallachla. or some (.000 square
miles of Rumanian soil. The city, with
.w,.,..i.iinn nf ir. noil I. .... the .3.1.
h ii i tii i ... I
etn bank of thn lower JIu River, sixty
nil-." south of Rumania's northern
l.undary and forty miles north of the
1 Mini be. the southern boundary. It is
rlxty mile east of Ruminla'a western
boundary.
Hurharest la Slleal.
There Is no word from Hucrraieer to
t Ishr on v this critical situation. The
Russian official statement on the Ru
manian fighting does not mention It
The German itatenients on the Ru- (
nmnlan camnalan have been almost unl
formly accurate, however, and the si-1-nce
of Bucharest and I'etrogiad Is
ominous.
The capture of Craiova, a c'.ty a
U t;e as Monaatlr and strategically far
more Important, would be the hardest
h ow to Rumania since the loss of Con
f tnxa and Cernavoda.
At pte.ent, however, military obierv
fi aie most concerned at the fate of
the Rumanian armies. The Rumanians,
v 'in
at las: leporia sun nem urwiva, i
to be In great peril. They can I
tear
Hull aw from Onova by only one rail
irn.1, which run to Craiova. Thla has
b.fti cut behind them. Their only
ci. ,ji!.c now is a retteat southeast acioxs
ci'Mi (ountry.
lirsora laiporlaiit Polal.
Tli- loss of Orsova would mean that
tie .Miles have lost the valuable poal
txni on .Hungarian soil whence a drive
to .nt the Orient railroad would have
l.en easiest. Belgrade Is less than u,)fIXL HANDS OET THIRD RAISE.
hundred miles from Orsova. It would .
n.ean also that the last Rumanian army i wBf, of n.0 (ntinn Operntlves
mi me enemy a sou iiku urvu uiiii.
balk.
The Rumanian army In the -fit Val
l"y. vvlili h Iias Russian troopn ttllh It, is
Innit dilveti lown Ihe valley noith of
C auna toward the city. Ona Teuton
ftny Is to the north and another I ellpJ
tuns In on the south. The rapid advanci
of a tliinl army down the Alt Valley. In
iie icar of the Rumanians, make their
I".sltluii piecarlous.
It Is not clear how this state of affairs
hit been brought about, though from tha
Autiiuu otllclal atatement last night It
ppears that It was not an Austrian
liny striking east from Orsova that
cut off th Rumanlun. The army thai
rut the railroad advanced south through
the n I lev ir the Matruli. which run
Into the lllti, twenty mile northwest oft
Craiova, thn Auatrlan say. i
Air Service Poor.
How such u move could be accom
plished without the knowledge of tha
Ihiiimiluii Is nut apparent. In previous
4se, however, the lack of an efficient
llum.iuliin aviation service haa kept the
s my commanders uninformed of Just
A..nl.il.. ... . ....v..n l a ....til trlr. IBte
To.day's Itusslan statement contain,
lur e Mirniiru.enient ror trie Allies.
Hiimanlan IochI ucceas near Klmpo
lung ate reported at on point, failure
k another The Oetman ay that In
tl l region the Iltimanlan troop ar "of
n.ixe.i and haphazard forniallon" and
s being battered to pieces In frultles
"unter attacks. The nuwlan atatement
I'.llOWS
Transylvania. In th region of,
K'liMiclumr numanlan attacks louth
r,f Dragoslavele were unuiCefful.
in the region of Aldeiht the u
rnariiant advanced to lh northwaid
r,d captured 100 prlonari two ma
rhlne gun and ona cannon.
lh enemy attack on the iiumaniau
i oops In the Alt district, In the re-
im of Tcheat, Serbanetht and
IP sei wa unsuccessful, The attack
repelled by our Arc.
Iletlrement Coatlnae.
In the valley of the lllver JIu th
' iniiuiians, under the pressure of u-
P-rlor forms, still continue to retire
'IC southward.
'Ihe c,rrman statement says:
Front nf Archduke Charlei Francla;
(,.r operation agalnt the Ruao
n miatilan front are prog reaalng ac-
I "ding to our plan.
N-irlhwcft of Klmpolunr th flu-
II 11.411 tre exhausting their unit,
11 me nf mixed and haphazard
' Mimii, in fruitless attacks.
' iont of Field Marshal von Mack
' In the pnbnidj and along
ie Danube, as far aa the port of
" im, east ' Klllatrla, there ha been
ar'illcry flrlni.
IW iiuw neau qi me pro
2ttlftl!;!5S
-
ENTENTE DEMANDS
ON GREECE FINAL
Loudon Hears Latest Com
munication to Government
Was an ntimatum.
I
. ' Uovernment Is endeavoring to discredit
by falsely representing It to be antt-dy-London,
Nov I'D. A Iteuler despatch j uastlr. In the ordinary and honest In-
fiom Athens dated Sundav snvs that the
situation In Greece Is of the gravest Im
portance. "The nature of tin- allied demand
formulated SaturdH)." shs the corre
spondent, "are concealed, but It N In
ferred that they took the foim of an
ultimatum, expiring to-morrow.'
An Athena deapatch to the Exchange i
TeleB,aph Company sa the ruZ Ztr"- '
Auatro-llunxarlau. Bulgarian mid Tur-
klsh MlnlettTH to Ureece have been In-
rornieu ny Mce-Atluilr.il nil Koutnet.
commander of the allied fleet, that they
muat leave (ireece by Vteilnesda).
Admiral ni-Founiet notified the Mlu- Intention of settling the question while
Isters that they inu-t go uboard a the war lasts, Our entire attention la
learner which has been placed at their absarbed In the country's enemlta.
dlaposal. Otheiwlec they will be takrn "As soon as the war haa termlnatetl,
a boa id forcibly. after we have Inaured a far aa possible
The American Legation has under- j the safeguarding of our couutry'e na
taken the protection of the Aii.irt.ni., , tlnnal ' " have raised (Ireece
Turks and Ilulgats In (Ireece, while the from the position to which she has been
Spanish Legation will take charge of assigned by her violation of the Oreco
Oernian Interests. Seiblan treaty, then we will see what
The Oieek (lovernineiit ha- oideted rimmni.e cm ti nbtnlneil In future
that the University at Athens be eloed
ovvlng to disturbances on ;he pan of the
student".
ATHKNS, Nov IT via London. Nov.
20. A numbei of student of Alh-n
Unlvtrally comprised the prlnclp.il por-
Hon of the crowd In .pio-i:ntr.ite demon-
atratlona held yesterday. They were
headed by 1'iof. I'etmeitas of the law
faculty. An endeavor was made to or
gnlie a mas meeting of the students
for the put oe of paslng lesolutlous In
King Constantlne In favor of abandon-
ing neuirauiy ana esixiusiiig uie cause
of the Allies. Loyalist students objected
to this and a tlaht followed. The i ml Ice
wete called upon to ituell It and ncvcral
pel sons were hurt
A loyal decree lufil to-day iiccepts
the resignation" of the otllceis of the
Oreek army who desire to Join the pro
visional government at Salonlcu, and m
.lr. (heir llbemllon rrom Hvncnia
prison, where they Iiave been lonftueil
on charge nf desertion,
I ucreased 3T li Per f rnt.
Nsw HrnFonti, Mass,, Nov. 2u The
Cotton Manufailureis' Association of
Ibis clly voted to-day ti giant h 10 per
cent. Increae In pay to their 33.000
operatives, to be effective for it t lnd of
.! month. Iieitlmilnir lei eniliec (. The
Increase I the third within the present
calendar vear and bilmis the total nil-
vance within that lime to 27 ij per cent,
Thl I the biggest raise within :. .vear
that Ihe mill hand have ever mcelved.
It will Increase the total annual pavrull
of the mills fiom about JIT, 300,, ,00 to
approximately SlS.000,000.
WHM)NFINliHING MESSAGE.
Preslsleal Will Heal Willi 1 iie.
lied lUlallve Measures.
Wabiiinoton'. Nov. 20, Pm.ldent
Wilson practically completed his annual
message to Congress to-day and planned
io put ihe finishing touches on it to-
morrow. It will be devoted almost en-
tlrely to dometlc mattsrs and will deal
or marl V wnn legislative iiueiiuu
reronimended to
,l ev lou-iy
." ......... -
The iiiln.'lual Items In the mes.-igf
ar understood to be rallroid legists-
Hon to meet the situation rmuted b)
the threatened railroad strike last All- member of the llou to Journey to the nirlve i, Nognles to-night from Culla
n.,., n measure to allow Ameilcttii e.. n-itlonal canltal lu this nay. In vlovv can. Sln.iloa. en route to 111 Paso, The
porter to form common sellln-: agencies of the nairovv niajotlty which the lie- , men ate T. 'I. Hawkln, .Ir, superintend
abroad I conservation hills; a corrupt publli mm claim In the next House, the ent of the P.irral mines of the Alvarmlo
practice meaauie, and the rorio mco
, bill.
I BRITISH BEGIN FOOD CONTROL.
' Board of Trade laanea Wheat and
Milk Reflations.
' l.n.vDOM. Nov. !0, The Board of
Trad ha begun woik under the new
fOOu COnwor rr,4uiaiioiis, iito oiuer;4
lt..ua is..., usiied. which will no Intn on-
'eration November !7, dealing with
wheat and mint. 'ne regulate tne per-
rentage of flout' which 111:1 v Im milled
from wheat, virjiim ror tne iiiirerem
oualllle from 7S to 7K per cunt., .lnd
I itlpulate tluit aft..- .Mnu.iry 1 onl)
. ..a. 1., i-enr.l.ttlce ullh ihu
Hour mad In
! schedule may be used In bie id or other ,
food. . , , . PeckhHiii F.alatr 1.000,000.
The milk order fixe a maximum price I
not exceeding the price which prevailed; The will" of Mre, Antilo A, Perkhai.i.
on November IS, or alternatively, thai U blow of Wheeler II. PecKhum. a New
the nrlco may not exceed by more .linn York lawyer who gained prominence by
a ipaclfied amount th" pilco which pre-
vailed In tne corresponuiuK 11,1,111 or
fore the war, thla amount being two
pence (four cent) n quint This 01 -der
inakea the maximum prlco lpprox
linately lwlv ceills .1 quarU Tho nr.
der doe not apply to tondensed milk
or milk preparation.
WHY HE'S FIGHTING
Sm.vm Nalionnl Army Wants to
. Wipe Out Stain of
.Broken Fnitli.
! HLAMKS KINO'S KH1KXDS
Declares: He Will Demand Con
stitiitioiml (luarantees When
War Is Over.
Siinlal Vaktf lliipalth In Tmi 9vs from the
London Tltntt,
I.ONDOV. Nov. 20. The Times pub-
' llshes to-day an Interview with M. Venl-
j zelo, hend of Ihe Nationalist (loverh-
metit In flreece. In which he sayt:
' "At the moment when the first conlln-
, gent of the National army are leaving
fit- I ha fititit I .taulia lit imliraaa t Mill
deslie to express my lli
to the allied press and.,
it. i. xi. r.artv with W
ie been so read) Willi
cere gvnlltude
people who hav
Keen and sympathetic support
iineue support in our tin
tlohal struggle.
"n fighting thU fight we with to wive
out the stain placed upon the Oreek na-
' Hon by the disregard of treaty obliga
tions to Metbla. We wish to ptay a part
, In Ih freeing of our territories which
i have been Invaded by the Bulgarian.
Fight fur "wall Xatloa.
, "I wish to emphasize my absolute
couvlctldn that (lieece never can pro
gress nor eveh exist mi a free and inde-
I pendent State except by continued main
tenance of the rloest contact with lhoe
Power who have supported her on every
, occasion an J who tnle the Mediterranean
and are at this very moment fighting
1 for the liberty of Kurope and the ght
i of every small nation to live In freedom
I and Independence.
"This Is the struggle which the Athens
terpretallon of the phrase, a movement
Is anll-dynastlc only If It alma to over
throw thn throne mid replace the reigning
royal family with another dynasty. Thus
the accusation Is n wanton calumny.
"Neither can we be accused of being
antl-dynastlc If we have come Into open
conflict with the crown on account of the
s)stem of despotism set up In Athens,
on account of our resolve to claim In the
"'" of the people the tight, which I
Has u Internal Aim Now.
"now
"However. our movement wus not or-
nan I zed with the object of achieving the
settlement or mat conflict. We have no
against the possibility of a certln limited
number of pcraons around the King Im
posing upon tho Crown an opinion In dl-
red cuiitradlctiAu to the will of the peo-
,,nd forcing upon the lieople against
lMr wm ;,0n.y calculated to drive our
lomr. , national suicide,
,ml l have teferred to
u, settled In one way only by the
frw. vetdM f ,,e people. We are con-
vi,u.,. that the Allies will assist to this
fur only In the event that the (Ireek
people after the war ate prevented from
eNpieMlng their
w'10ut presume
decisions fieely and
will the danger of civil
war not arie.
Stands b CunalllDllaai.
"Nothing but the ieetabllhmeiit of
the constitutional regime which ha been
violated can offer a guarantee that
uteece win comiiiue 10 inaiiiisiii ciur.
elation with the powers of Lie Kn
tontc. wliereas Hie maintenance nf tho
abolute rule from which we a five r.een
suffeilug for the Inst twentv inontlis
would facilitate (Ireece' depat ture fiom
her natural path nnd render poslble a
rannrochement between her and the
I'uiitr.tl l,mv.r.
wish to tlalil for our national In
teiet side by side with our natiirai and
traditional frltnds. We wish to make
"!. " ri".'' llarm don"
hemic .Sctbla by fuelling our en-
I'agcineiita
"We wish to Insure our future light
. I.. ,. I'm. 111, Hir mi.ltr. nt ' .... . .," Willi Hie nun .. , - I itgc or .VI s I ,11 III I lie linn, I, III rai se
ll be 11 fiee people mid the rnastets of 0 co)l, na )fen i educed fiom 10 to ,, ncmber 1 un to yri.terd.iy have .' , ,i vvulmn Hull
", '""' , " oru. we am
.struggling for precisely those principles
' for the triumph of which over Pruss an
our own ilestiiiie, in o woru. we ate
miiiiuusm ,r "r.r .c
wa r.
"In these clrcnmslances we feel that
Ihu great Powers which have done so
much for (Ireece In the past will appre
dale the position lu which (Ireece Muds
herself to-day. We are confident that
these I'owets, approaching likewise the
goal which limy are striving to attain,
will grant us the material and mnul
suiinort whlih we need In enable Us to
bring our struggle to a ucceful con-
flu',on."
,.ZT,7.7!-i,r
GOES TO CONGRESS BY AERO.
(l u, HicnMc), More Than (10,
Hi-, to Wnsblimlmi I'rom Phlla.
U .vsiliNOTON, Nov, JO, Ilepresenta-
tive-elect (. D. Illealiley of Franklin,
Pa., niiived In Washington at litis this
ilficrnoiui In nu aliplaiie. He I the first
iiignt or me unw nieiuoor wa awauru
with consldetnble itnenslness and 11 sigh
nf relief went up from the headquarter
of the itepiiiillCtin (.ongreaaionai com- mil are unaccountea ror in me i-nrriu ;nin, street Place Mlnil Doors, Fol- son of Lord llothertnere nnd nephew of men when John l l! krrrller 4.0111c1 . the opinion of marv uw)ei
mltle a thy watched from the win- district. Theie l no news of A. W ,.,.., i nlr .1- 1. .... lortl Notllicllrfe lie was killed while here next week. They phtuheil to sell that, under the dninim law the r.Hl
dow of tlie Ulggx Building the arrival flravcs. lonm inc n, ..r .n .nix, kllUnf, M tioops In a charge on the him .-nouish 1 caul at NO cents 11 quart to rods can mnuiie 11 full eiglii Hours wmk
01 lilt? new mciiiurr auu skit 111111 niei-
glide to thn earth at the base of the
Waihlngtoa .Monument after Hie plane
hud circled that historic pile.
Mr llleaklev It more than 90 yr
old, n ml th'. w.vi the first lime he hod
been lu nu ilrplnne.
The airpt itni was piloted by Kergt.
William (' Ocker, flying Instructor fot
the I'nllcd rttnteii Aviation Cotpg nt the
H.m Diego school. Tho plane wa on
army inarblne thai ha hern at Mlneols,
11 , ,,,. They left
., ......... ,.
rney ieri i-iiuauei-
o'clock
bls iiiosecutlon of the Tweed rlrg. ill'
posed of an estate of aluut 11,000,000.
i wnt, filed for prolntc )rterday Be-tiuttsi-
a c'.'.arlt) total ?r'0.nnn.
Dewry't Huperiur I'orl Mine, (I a Nellie,
Our nin.l nniirlinuig. olonil uiuklnii wine,
131 Fulton St., N. T. I'itone leoi Cart,
Adv.
iBORDER PROPOSAL
TO MEXICANS TO-DAY
If They Do Not Accept Then
Whole Controversy (Iocs
By the Hoard.
CAHHKKA PLAN HKJKCTKl)
He Wanted 100 Mile Neutral
Strip and Right of Ills Troops
' to Invade 1'nlted States.
Atlantic Citt, Nov. I. Tlie three
Mexican rommlsslonets will mcelve to
morrow morning from their American
colleague In the Joint commission n
clear anil simple proposal for the ad
justment of the difficulties orl-tug be.
tween this country and Mexico over the
chn,p of Vlla ,,,, ..hlng.
" . , " , , " ,. .
Proposal. I.av lug been P 'J''' t
President Wilson and Secretary of
i..i,10.. ..er.ive.l this afteinoon '
:, ....vr . .7.1 .i..-l
.1.- - l. tl .1 .I.a I
flic n
rilipnaiir ulJluuldl Ul llir iiiict -
lean membets of the rommlf slon.
daiy Kane, John II. Mo't anil
Amei Ic
Hecrtlaiy Lane, Jo in 'J J
Yo7 'the "wAMMwir of" the American .
trunna frnm tt.n lh. tintrnlltntf nf tll
border and the right of American tioops
to pursue Into Mexico any bandits who
may again make a raid on Tolled States
soil
...... .......... .... ,. -
Speedy arertueul Demanded
The American delegation
legation held a meet-1
Immediately after the
y Lane from Wash-
Ing this afternoon
return of Secretary
Ington. They made up their minds, with I
the riesldenl approval, to dill) dally
no longer. The suggestion tnat tne nual contracts, because they am woik
Mexican delegates either aaw wood or hig half time, giving us a tearoii that
quit talking will he conveyed to them j
nt n Joint session to-morrow morning in
the most polite and diplomatic language
thai the Americans can employ. t
The plan which will be laid before the
Mexican does not by any means cover
every point that must be discussed and
settled befoie everything Is again liar-
monlous between President Wilson and
Klrst Chief Carranza. It lias to do only
with the military phase of the contro-
Versy. If It I rejected by the Mexican
delegates, then In nil likelihood the ses-
slons of the Joint cnmmlslon will come to
a BneeilV end.
The plan 1 said to be so clear that'll)' on the rnllwuv company for not hnv- " Jl lrlru "' nerve o. strong men oe
nobody can find any diplomatic subter- Ing them repaired. I i.!' "r"1"'" Mml Policemen nt a fire
fug or evasion In It. The hint here Is The operators agree with hltn and add wlllcl1 desn.ijed four story tenement
that the
Mejclran commissioners will
anre to haggle over Its term.,
have no chance
Cabrera Chief Obstacle
The impatience and disgust which the
Administration has felt for some months
over the .ubtle twisting nnd counter
turning of the Mexican commissioner.
chiefly LUI Cabrera, Mexican chairman,
were hinted at atrongly thla evening In
the corridor of the Hotel Trav more,
whera tti Joint commission has been lt-
ting There seems to be no doubt that
the American commissioners to-morrow
will demand Immediate action, allowing
undoubtedly the Mexican time to com
municate with the Klrst Chief, but the
understanding here Is that the Mexican
commlssloneis have plenary powers to
settle everything.
Chairman Lane eem confident that
the plan will receive the approval of
the Mexican commissioners and tint the
way will be opened almost Immediately
r... . e ',",',J,,.I ,, i,,,. ,,.. , ..1,1c , the ur ea
ror trie settlement or other questions
ih.il will he of htn in M.-ion
Chairman Cabrera, who has been the
obstacle in the way of a speedy adjust-.
ineiit of the difficulties. Is not In the1
least concerned about what the Amrrl
uncrrnru iuiiui wni uie .meri-
bile may think of him. whether It
d or evil. Around him the con-'
y will be waged to-morrow and
can pulill
be good
troversy
upon his nttltude is likely ',, hinge the
adjustment of the snarl tu whkh the
Joint commls.ion now finds itself,
.rr..
,
y In New,
jn. When
Areemen( With nine Owner"
Henor Cabrera spent Salurda
York and Sunday In Washlnxton.
In New ork he had
,e had a confereti.e with
live of American mine
ard to the taxation on
the representatlv
owner lu regard
mines, lie said this evening he hnd
reached an agreement with the commit -
e tee. comprl.lng I). .1. IUff. counsel for
rhe lMielp.I)odge properties: Julian 11.
- Itealte atirl Ifenrv llrnere. rem Htil tnir
Heatly and Henry Bruere, repiesentlug
other Interest. He arranged for 11
lower taxation on gold and sliver pro -
dtired In the mine In Mexico, and this
rate, he said, was acceptable to
Americans.
I ne unuersiaiming nere i mat tne
7 ,. . on ,llvpr hulllon from S to
7 ,)fr cenl ; n ,Ver bullion fr
5 Xo UBrMrm.nt. it w
,, ,,. cached In regatd to t
a said,
the pin-
juotloti and expoit of copper.
Cabrera's compromise plan fur p.i-
trolling of the border, which wa. re-
jrcteu in vi uKiiiiiHiou, nuiiRr.irn u urn-
trol zone fifty mile vvld on either side
or tlie iioiuer tnai was io ue pairoueu
bv both Mexican and American troop
11 ..I-a A.V. tnf lh. ell,t it tl.
imst ...n.. n---
M.tbin Irnnni III rlinin Vmer c nn i.in.
....A,.-.. .
.11. rA.. nfli. io It. nlft llm Pu I..1 Ulnla.
i..is .... .., " .... ........ ... ....
in retiriu
..III for a like prlvlleg.! to Ihe
'J ',U'"'
mkricas's missing,
American
O A 1 f I.
mi.-., i.. i.rr,.l ..in i i.ii...ai...B
Olbrr III I nrral Knre ( llllilinillin
Capture Nemj. Says llrfiiKer.
Kl. Pabo, Nov. 20 -Tlie Alv.li.idn Min
ing Company received a message late to. ,
day from Nogales Ariz., sa.vlng foul
Amtrlcia refugees fiom Parinl would,
coinpauyi i.cjh4j .tr..n, ...c
Donald and A. W. Morris. According to
! Ihe mining company eight Aineiicnns
Allien iierom, nu
American cattle-
man, who vva arrested and taken Io
chihuahua City on a marge or rattio
I stealing, was teleased there and ha
1 reached the liorder. He declared den,
iTrevIno warned hltn to leave for Kl Pao
an soon as releated, n he wa no longer
I able to pi otect Americans In hi zone.
''Resident of Chihuahua arc hourly
' ofrald of an attack by Villa," said
Ilerohl. "It Ik reported that ho Is draw-
1 lu on tho city, nnd on the morning
left (Jhlliuanua 1.
on, Trevlno left w
nil of hi tioops, taking a southern
route. Trevlno has about li.lioo troops,
I but over half of them lire starved and
liol ui 10 ngnt. ine greater mn oi
the people are for villa."
Paper Nhorlage Cot Tlckrl.
Voi'NOBToW.tr, Ohio, Nov 2ii.Brcnuse
of the hortage and the advance In the
Pllcr of P-Mer the Mahoning Valley
Htreet llHllway 1 otnpany has reduced
the size of iticct car tickets. Ticket
that formerly wera y, inches By 1 inch
are now 1 1-3 by Ti Inch.
iCITY BUYS A MINE
TO CUT COAL COST
Telle llnute .Mayor Will De
liver It at $2.7') a Ton to
Small Buyers.
TO PAY 7."i (TS. CAUTAUK
Limit for One PurchaNcr Fixed
at Two and Half Tons
.10 Teams Knjja'red.
,
Tkiip.k Hu't. lnd, Nov 2o. -Men and
women were In line thl evening when j
the f'llv Comptrollers office rtoed to
Place their order, for .,a, which Mayor !
.lames rios'om hns arranged to begin de-
llirrlng lo-moirow at 2.7S n Ion. as
irnln-i IS ike,l In- local dealer-
against ia nsKeii ii) local dealer.-.
"as made .1 coultact Willi I nomas
(liegoty. mine opeialor, for the output I
" ' ' ,
of the tatters mine, three mllri be) ond
He has made .1 coultact with Thomas
.u i.. . .. .... ...n. i ,
i me C!I) lllllll- linil Mill nil ii iiiiiiiiuhihiim
I.,, gHIl, .x mic-li enable, him to pay
tedMI,,ers T." cents a ton for hauling t he
Ik. ..1... Il...h. HH.I ....i .u -,..i.l nixl
team-ters 7." cents a ton for hauling the
i ' Z 1
.... .. t. .
"ic .Mayor says mis purpose i- io iracn
ttje small nu)er nnu moi or to-uay s
oidtM.x wete for one ton, and the limit
to one purchaser Is two and a half tons,
or a wagon load.
M... ...... I. ...1.-. l I I II'
I lie ill ice is wrai wan cnaisru ii mii
dealers six weeks ago. The Mayor says
he will vontlnuii seiyng thn output of .Hon dealing with the telatlonshln or nie b.ied on
the Cregory mine, which Is a small one. ' , ",r "'-"""""'H nr.
He la trying to buy coal from other' p
operators, seven of whom have notified
hltn they have no co.il over their an
they cannot gel caia.
The annual contract price Is tl 0T tu
$1.1,'. a ton at the mlue anil 30 cents
freight to Term Haute for the few tulle- .
haulage. Wlut coal onerulot now
have over contract output they aid sell-.
i,K nt i3.oU u too, and Chicago buyct.
who are here offer some days J1. Ihe
pi ice In Terre Haute by retail ull last
winter wan J2.50.
Kdwafd Htewurt. president of Ihe Indl-
ana miners, says there are several thou-
sand Useless coal earn within a few mile,
of Terre Haute marked "Bad order," and
111. tlnlnl. tri llioiit n. niacins I e.lknn.llitl.
that lack of efficiency nnd fair dealing;
on the part of the traffic officials diverts
coal cars, of which there are plenty In
' gooil order, to handle the capacity output'
If the traffic foil; would do what Is es-1
' peeled of them.
Indiana operators favor a pooling ar-
I langement of cars to be allotted pro rata
'and after the manner of allotment of
Pullman and restriction a to their rout -
'Ing.
JHJRS'S BROS. GIVR DATA
VI ember dlillts Firm llounbl l.nsv
and Sold High.
one fact emerged cleaily )etnday
fiom the Investigation which aie being on the upper floor even knew tln-re was
carried on by the city, the county and file.
the Federal authorities Into the high! We'll- McMllster of "Hook." I f,
price of coal III New Votk It was that .''I,1"""1 ,'" . '" '" T-'"1''
ih. Ii.ri-e.t retail linn lii the city In the
-- "" , " ,. i,., uhi it
, has been iiiarUed U aim up, na soni us
. . ..... ... . . i. ..1..-.1
coa. ror ing ne, price, .
" J'T' ...:I,."V';r, v
fi action nf lis sup tl
lliut I ro say.
, ii, r ,t i.-.ii, led bv i hi concern
' f 1 1 ?nr" ,',,a" 'V-h, " pmi"
1 " i'o"' , r Ces
J"'!, "ilXtl...
T hi state of affair leu one investiga-
lor to i,ol,ii out that there I no teal,
.hniiime ,f coal here, but only an
Chll hOOStltlg Of pi ICC... i i. i f ,li t l .iirr -Ire.l .Inl lrill
Coincidental with thl admission tom;" f ' Ueib er hi ie
Burns Bros, was the ieiisurlng state- made 1,1 wav Into ls H.jn met. .it .
,,, n,at coal Is going to be cheaper n . the back of the burning ' '"'
., r.u- .1 .... ....ri.r.,.. in week. It would 'worked bis way along window ledges to u
ar ,he Investigation, though
,eV were slow In getting under way.
have accmpllMied something.
Assistant District
Attorney Samuel
, Mm-kewlch. assigned by nistrlct Altor-
j . 1Mwuri, Swal, , j0k Into the coal
,,uliHon. yesterday summoned Frank
i I. ...... .,r it..-.,. Iler..
i u,,, vlee.uresldent of Burns Bros.,
, -tatted to question him, but on
, learning that thl olllclal had not ,
hiought reind or books along, sent him1
I imr-K for them. '
' The an that lntereted Mr Millie.
,..,.1.
.... .... . .fiu ft, l 11... ..a Urn.
.... ...,.i i,. n... .men market "U.iion
, ,. ..r coal nt prices tanging fiom
,. in , h ton. Ill the same neilod
v illive HO,i f,nni sO.ooti to so.oon
tllk. The r.0.000 or TO.Oiin tons which
I Wem not bought by Bum Btos. at
pmuilum wem noimueu nrmre in. -
shortage" at ptlfes ranging from SS.2S
jtj.jo at I no mines, .vir. riiirns sain
, ,hal his mm ha chniged up to l,.',
. . ... v.... ..0
, ur mis I .... I it. ...- .,
n..... i l.,,r.,.,i ..f u.l.l.i. nn.l
.r ..4.1..1,. r- w
. . ... ....!. I . I.IM,
j measures nmiie new, , ...... i
,,, ,h,.t tin drop In pi le wll,
-eUsim-d particularly on the .-Ms,
,Slde. Commissioner HaitlgiinV Inspec -
i !";:.. '.'-"T ''"'.'.'m 'I'fi.'su!,1,'' i,1:,"."!'. ri;'1.?, Sz
their i onl In sni.ill basket lols arc paying
I ri,,p "f ,,r Un !l ,""' A
I . . . . .,,.,, .,, ..enlji last win.
ter Is costing 20 tents now The bureau
Is leaking out for short weight violations
lu HiIh trade,
District Attn: ney Swann said )ester
day thai he has Instructed hi assistants
to 'demand Jail sentence for dealers con
victcd of short weight ptacllccs, Hem
lofom III- piosecutot- bus been i-onteiii
with small fines
.
ANOTHtiK HUfUAWUU X 0L0SING,
Jacques Biistmioby's business troubles,
1 which resulted In the closing up of his
Cafe de in Palx last Saturday nflcr-
noon, wete further compllcKted yester-1
day when a dlsposaes notice wa sei veil'
on BustHiioby s I-much ltcstatirant, 110
West Thirty-ninth street, By older of
tho city niaislml the latter establish
menl shut Ii doom tale .vesleiday af
ternoon, At the same tune thiee cmdlloiH filed
111 liivoluntary petition in bankruptcy
th'aga list tho .Meiamni-H ciiih, Inc.. wh ch
1 runs the Thirty-ninth street restaurant
and of which Jacques iiiistutioiiy 1 an
olllcrr At the request of Ihe petition-
mis .iiiiihw ..4.-141114,11 .iui ii..iiiiueii jonn
, 1.. i.yttio or tj in-uar street receiver for
Hie -SlHIliel4-t tillllt-l it OUIlll ll 4VJ,-
(100.
Although the Thirty-ninth street res.
, In... ..! 1 tinr.fl r.t ti. tirt inttr n
0UB hiwlness, Attorney Znlkln said Jth.
1 ,.,,.,.. ,nnt t,P ,,r,ln,M wc.r0 p.hahy
HWInvveil up In the malntennnco of the
Princes Itestnurniw, 1615 Broadway,
which was nlao run by the Metamora
Club.
ORGANIZED LABOR DECLARES
WAR ON STRIKE INJUNCTIONS
American Federation Votes to Make It "Paramount
Issue" in Future Political Campaigns Hits
"Labor Is Property" Dictum.
IUi.timokk, Nov. 50. Organized labor
force of the country lo-day avowed ex
treme hoallllty to the writ of Injunc
tion a a means of stopping a sttlkc.
First 11 irsolullon was adopted unanl-inou-ly
at the morning aesslon of the
'invention uf the American Federation
of l.nbor urging organized labor every
whem to make ihf Injunction question
"Hie paramount Issue In ull of their fu-
ture political activities."
A niore lailk.al llkp (,
afternoon session, when the committee
Hxerullve founcll's report took
"', S"f 'lir. 'ZZZJ
Supieine fourl classifying labor lis
properly. The committee submitted ard
,,,,"el"ln uiiunltnouHly adopted a
tfcoiiiiiietiiljiilr.il "n... i,,i,,,,,.m.,
dealing with the' lelatluimhlp of im-
ipiojer aim employee and lia-cil on the
illitiim that labor Is property be dlsre
aatiled. lei Hi rni..iiM.i..a'M i. ...i. ...
ir
Jtliev may,
Meni
.. ' .. ' v,i"
Heport uf the l .imi.ili tee.
'-mmlUee;. r, sa)s
eeems to be a Kettteil miitiiin ,.r
ini..r.i. i.i- .. .. : . "
.i.v.F-m MiuMKiMiiniic io iiie iieeuom til
men and women who labor to persuade
and then use the Judiciary and mlscon.
eiiui! constitutional guarantees, and
thereby nullify legislative enactment" eo
? "
uy n. lenlu l.nt .m. .....1
tlterore lecoinmeiid that un'v Injunc
14 FAMILIES SAVED .
AS TENEMENT BURNS1
, .,
I ollee mill I' ll'PIIH'll
HcM-ue
Many Hnby Thrown I'rom
Third Story Caui-lit.
Honors wete even In swift lescue work
"""7 iiiinioiui street, vv in-
"n",bu.r" 1? , ! I,efur' Bl ant
"""rimenis nnisneu inetr
Jb.. ,L,at.", " "atrr .,ar.t of
J1 .iVaoe.
. 5 . .. . ,..,.
w.s iilZd bad
"A 'i'"' tL''i t
5 3klk is niH i , ii .i
" XIr ' u
on the third floor. Mr. SwokzlK turn
bled down one flight on a Are escape and
broke her right ankle. Terror-stricken
neighbor added to her hurts bv tram
pling on her after she lauded
The blaze started lu the cellir and
shot thtoiigh the celling Into the tlrst
tlooi. lilting off passHge through the
main h.nll to Hie street before the
foil:
.Msw. Ill n frenzy of fe.ir.
llirce.yrr.niu liailKllirr owl
of a
i Ihlrd story window
....,
Quick in- a Hi-',
l .vicai usier sel lilinseir as riciu us a ten.
, ' ,., , ,, .,,, hands, lie
ducked around In a cliclo two or three
"''":' "'","
"" unhur . The fnin'lc mollier
1 Marled to follow her baby, but MoAllls-
, ler .veiled to he,- to stay where she w.i.
and she obeyed. Then he ran ii) a ladder
uunun. inn iriiii-ie iiiuiuer
"o i- "","'
and the woman and her hu.band. John'
aitlfl-.Msko. weie taken down.
. Nlsko. weie taken down
In the meantime Policeman Benjamin
window In .he te.ienie,,. and cariled b,..-k
one by one La e .hlkowky. her hti-
band. Frank Zblkovvsky and their three-
)ear-o!d daughter .Minnie.
'WED AFTER YALE VICTORY.
llarlfiird (ilrl.aml atiiilenl Klope n
Itesiill f Football (.nine.
CiiKl-SWidl, Conn. Nov 'Jo- A 10
mance begun at the Viib-.l'i Incctoti gnnie
l,..i Uuit.t.lt.v . tiimlni. led In the tlllil--
... ' . ,,, it..,
' " . ' ; .V' ' V,.. .. v..i i....
',,....,.,.. i p.,', i .hestei- V v.
. .'. t .. , h...,-.. n..m
until luge IIiimhii fiom1
,i. .,,., cim
hatles u, Dcib), thei," '"' ' ".
, cupte wen- tlilven In
a inolor c.n to the
,,,,, f justiie of the Peace Malcolm
. Merrltl whow;
' jv hefom mhl
IlilKbt 'to tie the nuptial
, 110)
Shortiv l.efom in nVUiik la-t nielil
I .. ' .. . . ... . .. ......... .. .
I'ollce llici luriiriiin tj i f. i ii , i , i , 1 1 1 1 ,
.1.... 1 1
I 111 I., lei.l.l.lS, ,1 iwrrttr ......
.. . .. ...... i..i .4 II. . I..
leceiveu ov nun. asi.-.i ii.e (...me m
' Chester. N Y.. Io prevent the ma.
,',,,,. becau.e the parent of the young
1 w,imau weie opposed to It on account of
'.'.
i 'n,e messase declared that both wen
' minor.. in obtaining Ihelr mnrrlaee
ii...,u.. r.n... Il.e town rlcrl: Imlli .le,-l.li...l
under oath that they were mom than 21
N0RTHCLIFFE NEPHEW KILLED.
ecoliil Sun of l.nrd llolheriiiere
Dies im nniiiu- l-'ronl.
r,rii.i Ciihtr linimltli lit Tin. Sc '1111,1 e
.nntfatl thitt
Iinpo.v, Nov 20 - The V'li.irs an
I noer.v- VI. t- 111 I he 7 1, nr. nn.
.u ' death of Lieut the llliu
nounce" Die iieaiu 01 i.ieui ine lion
V(,rt sttdnev Tudor il.irmstvnrth, second
1 fjlllllw front on November 13. He was
i tun old
'
l.onl Itotheiineie, llaiold Sidney
Har.usworlh, Is the younger nnd favoi lie
brothel of l.onl XorthcllrTe. who tin 110
rhildmn.
SIX HOUR DAY IN SING SING.
Warden Cn Dim 11 Labor of
Convict.
Hie
Osmimnu, Nov. 20. The six hour day
has arrived In Sing Sing. By order of
Warden Derrick the prisoner. quit wnilt
in me various eu...r i.,-,ii., m ,1 ncincK
Instead of I. a wo the custom before
this time, The men stnrt work at 8 In
Ihe mninlng and In the middle of the day
have an hour off for dinner,
With the shortening nf Hie day War
den Derrick announced the men must
work steadily.
riKKHl'H-T HOTRI.a AMI lilll.K I INK
now open. Inn. aboard Alrl.lne.HUfVwijr,
el tic,
employer and enip!o)ee nnd based on the
llctum 'labor I property' be wholly ami
absolutely regarded a uurpatlon nnd
disregarded, let the consequence be
what they may.
"Suth decision aa the one tendered
by the Supremo Court of the State of
Mnsahu.cltH have Ihelr root In cla
Interests; It I usurpation and tyranny.
Freedom came to man because he be
lieved tlmt reslnlance to tyranny I
obedience to (lod. As It came, eo It mut
be maintained, King" could be nnd were
dlsobe)ed and sometimes deposed. In
cases of tills kind Judge must be dis
obeyed anil, should bo impeached."
Kiecndve Council's Findings.
The Kxecutlve Council' lepott, Ihe
tidoptlon of which the committee recom
mended, the convention concurring,
dealt at length with the Massachusetts
case, attacking the courts und raying
there seenieil to be no remedy. The
council asked to lie empoweied to con.
Hnue It uld to the Massachusetts State
federation in the fight
Congiess will bo urged to pass legis
lation whereby money on deposit lu the
l'otal Savings Bank may be loaned to
municipalities for the purpose of build-
I HIT model home. for Its citizen In a
. ., . . . . .
resolution unanimously adopted.
A lesolutlon wus adopted to-day reg
istering the fedeiatlou' "inn denting ol
tiosltlon to any scheme or system which
denies firrdoin of speech, pres. or the)
showing of motion pictures when they
facts.
4 BROTHERHOODS
TO JOIN FEDERATION
Hailrorid Chiefs nfmss Lalior
Oif-anization of 2,4-00.000
To-day.
HAl.TtMong, Nov, 20. AltllUfran nf
the four railroad brotherhoods, having a
mrmbcihlp of 400,000, with the Ameri
can Federation uf Labor and It 2,000,
000 members as a epnrate body was
regarded a more than a possibility to
night by Influential Federation leaders.
It was reported on reliable authority
tnat representatives of the railway de.
parttueut of the Federation had been in
conference with officials of the brother
hoods looking to an affiliation of all
rnllwny men with the Federation,
Two separate organizations of r.illwuy
employees, with membership In the Fed
elation that would give them the sup-
port of the organized Inbor fortes ol
the country In uuy effort to advance the
inlet ets of all organized railway wmk
ere, vva the plan,
It ha been nrrauged that the ptesl
dents of the four biotheihood shall
place their iaf liefure Hie l-'ederiitlon
convention ui to-morrow morning's ses
Ion. The 1-Vileiatioii ICxecutlve Council
already ha imported tluit the biothei
hood were aHtired of tlie suppott and
co.,peiatlo-i of the IVderallou In their
snuggle for tie eli-ht hour day. Theie
can he no temporary amalgamation of
i n.inl.itioii nrilll.iter! with tli kVil.r,i.
, - , , .
"- , , , , J
,,,M'n'J.,,1',,,J
'I1""""
' '" 1 1, , . ' . . . . . .!!'
."'iiiep. itiinrir)-, u
pointed nut that the
American Federation
r j.abor did riot penult such jiii.il-niiu.
' '"" ulu Juiauniiu-
, , ...,
' U flllilll loll llf tile III Ol llt't llOOll Willi 1
Federation . ame fnini Pieslden. (lump,
, , , A , ,
lionr debate, over what seemed t be
, ' ,' ' '", ll"
... .. . . .. '. " .'. ". v r, ........ .,1
l't0
impel s
ee
mi
I. de .if r - J. JV a.
, a.ilnt voluiit.-irv ii.socla
J,1, ,.v,p., ';,. ,1" lul.Ici
a
Do )ou think that, If wc go had. to
; brothel hoods to heroine
,,, nkelv to d. Ive
....
onipulslon, it will Induce the lallroad
ufllllateil- s It
them awav from
' tl" "
TWO PENN RELICS ARRIVE.
Tol.eii Clten lu ItnttUcr l.t liidliin
Come I'riiiu Kimliiiul.
Tivo v .iiiiiuiii belt given to Wl I am
P'nn b the Ic Han In coinni. moi.itioii
"' informal tre.itie vvlth
. " " iuioini.il ur..urs nun unii,
, i, it-no t-i.ne
' '. ,...- "-en wiiji.kiu u.ici, I o
.this cuiiutiy nnd placed In tin- Mu-vinu
, V " ' '
,.r ,1,. A ....... I I ...li.i .. II..... r- .
i nnstie or l.onunit so,.i ihrse bells
last .Inly, but the miction wax not Mil
veitl.e.l I), tll-t. .-rtiitili. Wl..... ,ull.
V eni'l 11 III I ll.s 1 Ollllll ) . VV lli-li the news
lie news
11.11111011
.. . . 1 ,. elCll.t Mil. ,i
IJ1 ulr S.llt le.lllllil 1 1 1 J lip
hoa ! , ?' h w uZ,!
I 1,1 M utor m' Z ,.T
,.rnn ilireciloii thui Mi. i, .
vv. iienuiiiK. w no ik v iie-clialrui.tu of
''Til! l'0,1"'
, I he larger belt ! m.nie of elg'iteen
siilnnof vMimpum--or imt.el mid. lam
shells-the ground being while with four
ciore and diagram of violet hue The
other belt iniislst
of
fifteen strings'
Willi violet drs'gii
JOHN D.'S COWS TO FOLLOW.
Iliicl.efrllcr' Will M.o I'eUe-J W ,r
rctnrle In I n UcvtiioiI.
..-lit, I. . 1.I..4. .tli.nliit' ...11. l.im.len,! mil..
Lakkwood. N .1 . N'ov 20. Theie w III
be little nourishment for the loeul d.iliy.
l"1 able to pay ensllv the pteent price
for gafolcnc. but they Icatned to-dav
that Mr Hockefeller will bring his own
cows lieu-from PocuiilUo Hills,
Wlun Mr llnk(felcr Inspeited his
cr-tate hem a week ago be learned that
Inrge paslunmrs wi re not being uetl, so
I lie decided to hi ing his cows, Hn will
.110 1,1 nil! iwcnty-eiKiit secretin Irs,
i-lerUs. hoiiscrneii nnd telegraphers. Tho
cows will live III 11 new model b.irn nn.l
will Hcimnpany Mr. Itockcfcllcr when
'lie goes South.
j " - " "
I llallnna l.oe tin Ciirsn.
Homk, Nov 20 ,uti Inn lump have
1 gullied some ground from the ltd inns on
the Curso front, accirriling to to.ila) h
War Dllb'tt iinnouncenicnt, which .iy
(Mi t'-c c.irso Silurd.iy night nfier
Intense nrtlllcrv piepiiiiitlon lh., enemy
nltnclii d our position mi Height i:i,,
Miilint Volkovnjal., in force After sc.
vere tlghllns they succtedeii In pc-cnp).
Ing a tiriich. hut along the rest nf the
fitiiit they wcro mmlsrrt with heavy
loss.
R. R. MEN INSIST
WILSON ASSURE
OLD PRIVILEGES
Chiefs (if Four Brother
hoods See Jlini About U
Hour Day Pledge.
KX PK( 'T G 0 VEIt X31EX T
TO FJGHT T1IK1B CASIiJ
Semitor Xewlauds Ifefew to
3Ios llarharic and lirulal
of Processes.'
HKA1) OF HIG IXQl'IRV
HITS LA 1,0 R METHOD
Ilailroad 3Ieu Fear Tom
pauies Can leuire Them
to Work Full Time.
Wahiiixutov. Nov. 20. Clilcfn of til
four rnllroad brother liooil", tho men
who only three mnnthx ngo wrung;
from Congrt'SN the Ailumson eight hour
law mi their threat of n ffcnernl rail
road strike, showed plainly In develop
ments to-dity that their purpose 1 to
hold President Wilson tu lii promise
to secure for them un eight hour day,
without the ln. of nny of the privi
lege pos-eticd by them under exlat
Ing agreement with the rnllroad.
RecOKiilzInu that :i lliiht Is on their
hand, the four hrothci liooil leaders
look steps to-dny to set- that the CIov
erntnent would defend Iho law In the
court wltti tlie best 1or.i1 tulcnt It
could cointunuil, nnd tlittt If rinv Iiuw
wen, found in the law by the court
these would be rectified by proper
legislation at tlie Instance of tht Pre.
Ident himself.
What Is more, the bmtharhoods, con
sclous of the power which tney wielded
so successfully last summer, purpoe
Hint the (lovernrncnt shall .see to It thru
j they are
not d-privid of the mileage
s)stetn of v.ige piymciil by mason of
this law- und that tne ilovei nmrnrsl
ugeiKle shall unl Hum In resisting any
sudi plan on the p.nt of the railroad.
Chief See Wll.ini mid IJregory.
A call bv the foul brotliet Hood ' chief
on the President late Mil nftcrnnnu
ul the While llouc und n conference
which they hud with Atuirncy-iJcni-r.-il
(In-gory wete the niost xigulllcaiit of
the duy's development in this railroad
""""
labor situation, which fias once morn
i af.).iiiiieil n
serloti nvpei 1
These vllts of the r.illinsd leade-ji
follow eil til" upelli.ig si-.- nti of the
Newland iiiWHl.g.ition, ivulih all
I iv-sv.i..nii.u, nuiui ail
OH ,,.,,, )e Iptf
.Ifloi.i condition dr.. ilbed b) railiond
, VV ..tne us "lnio eni b.e " IIbH llw.
t luotliei III 1411 1 chief nltctiilc.l f Iiim n..i.t,ff
senn nt Him I'fipllol, win. Ii the) studl
r.uslv lefialu.d from lining, they would
have he. 11, 1 Senator Ni-wland. the chal,
man of this 1 niiimlttie, ilmlaic In h'"
iipenuiK lem.iiks that -nine way must be
found by whli Ii 11 trsnii n, f.ncc, dc
scrlbed by him a "Ihe niot hatbHI i!
mid biutal of processes.' .mild hi)
avoided In the s.-ltlinn-lu of labor dis
pute. llrnllieiiiiM.il l.eiidcis ViiiIoiii.
There 1 no iiuest Iiiiiiiik i ,c r.u t mat
the Inolhelhoii.i le.nlcis me . r, inrried
ov.r the situ.ii.on that has n .scri with
irs,ecl to ihe eli.-ht liour itivv mill are
i king Io eiuieiiih tlii'iiiselvc in evrty
possible vv.l) for ii Mittggle tht. winter
,i, I'.icgt.sj, ami with t:,i- r.iltroad
theiiHclv. s. 't'li. Ir move v. -.teniae ill
pei icri.iig an aiii.iuro with twelve other
,.,,uu., u.h.mi- ,,, inner -,, m.ii c uu
cikiu nour trav a common ( ,i i-e. , u-iw
i I etr.i i oiLl lis n.uinc i ii.- ilccllcst s fn n-
i cano
It I evident thai what tho
i. ... .... ,. .. .....
luiuiii r iiomi in- uniiiiig .it in in," in tu
tl ill tun aid Ciiiii;ii-.- lu tin flcht which
they now see Is before tlie-n
One of Hie i iirliiiis fcatuii-H of the sit.
Ml inn on the eve of mi assembling of
Congress Is the fail tn.it the r.i.lroad
I ''"T, , ,i' . , i'l r''..
Ad-..'.
, , t J T .
thn
suit
tho
. 14.4 I I'll l.t l'l.llW I- ll.tnl.AU unl
I other, the lear has nrisen among them
I that the law Is ton indellntie lu not
, stipulating that nnih.ng In " should be
, construed ns ilepriv inir ihem of nny
nrlv ilen-s wh'-h thev now nnsscs.
I, nil ceiii 'I'tiii nibluiiiMia,
Avpaicntlv ino-t nf the In "tlirrhivi I
men ovei looked last huiiuiui he iim
IiIkuous (hairuler of thn law a-,,1 its
fnlluia to make any mention of the
mileage system of wage p.i)iuenl under
' is .,.,1,1 a full dnv's wage even though It
1 mkes him only 11 few bonis
fol. A ,i,n-K ric-wctlve of the tulle.
age made Sin h a construction of th"
law, If sue. e.ssful -In- me-i ailtn I woulJ
bi alnios; a vital ..l,cv I , i'-e , -.,011
As was picdlctcd In Tin- SfN this
morning, 'he llln Foil' '.;t'- had rot
been lu town moie 'n.vi , lew nour.
1, ,,,),' tins a i.cn , .1 1 1 1 1 00'. 111111I nn ap
,,oliUmeiit with the Pre l.l.-nt Befoie
'... to ,ic White House tin- ..fiernoon
, ...... ,,,s uimr.liitiii.-i, 1 . however, tho
1 ".., 1 iniiieri,t 1.....1... s r,..,.
!.,. ,ih then- leui-lativc coiiuillt.
,re ilcvelivng p'.n'i vnu rhev hop
. (0 ,,,,. K ,,f. ctu.ill) one fc., i e of th
1 President's legislative programme touch-
Ing on this i.uiro.iu .suu.iiiui.
I Oppose C(iiiipiil"iir 1 111111I1 Ie.,
1 This Is the prop, i.s.i 1 r.u- ,1 ci.n.putsory
' invcstlgulioi, o' ds-.,i.s it .in which
the men w-ni'd he f-u nihlc , strike
lit 1. satisf.i uuy to tm, 111 1,, ml execu
tive but 1110. liispiiMsiuu in iho union.
1 And In thci "uposilion to thl propnstt
ihy hve now enlisted by the imaty
J made celciday th aid of iho American
