-7- - -r
,a . ..
day's Hald. n ro best shop.
days 1111
ping o.r. wi ap. i. ta..row _o
rl.
No. 3686. WFTWAFU WASHINGTON, D. C.. TUICDAY, NOEBR21. 1Me. ONE CENT
GERMAN FORCES
MENACE CRAIOVA
Tutons Threaten to Cut Off
Rumanians. e
(Br the I.telatiemal News Bervies.)
London, Nov. 2&.-Gen. von Falken
hayn's "steam roller," sweeping down
into northwestern Runania, made
further Important headway during the
last twenty-foer hours, according to to
day's statement by the Berlin war oMce,
which in the essential point is cor
roborated offCially by Petrograd.
*In the valley of the River Jiul," said
the Czar's war offmee, "the Rumanians,
under the pressure of superior forces,
still continue to retire to the southward."
"Our troops." Berlin reported tonight,
"are approaching Cralova, capital of the
western Wallachia."
This Is the city for the possession of
which all the furious battles of the last
few weeks have been fought in the AIul
valley, and for the drive against which
the Teuton commander has asked and
received re-enforcements denied the
Crown Prince at Verdun.
Cralova. situated a little to the east
of the Jiul River, Is the most Important
strategic railway Intersection in western
Rumania. It lies lea than 115 miles
west of-Bucharest. It Is the converging
point of tour railroads.
The capture of Craiova and the sub
sequent Teuton control of the railway
communications in four directions would
threaten the entire Rumanian armies
in the Transylvanian Alps with being
-It off from all connection with the
interior of their native country and with
a flankin attack on a large scale from
the south and east.
Pessmistic Outloek.
Such is the outlook of the Rumanian
situation as revealed by today's official
leports from both sides-an outlook
which military critics here admitted to
I- even more ominotvs than had been
lnoked for by pessimists.
inl other parts of the Transylvanian
ftot aia4 Ln the wooded Carpithians.
stetbhorn trhbing ,continued without a
decsiev, result for either side, though
Berlin stated this afternoon that in the
area northwest of Campolung. second In
ilportanc. fron a strategical standpoint,
?'ie Rumanians have exhausted their
iTs which are of mixed and haphazaro
mma'ii in fruitless attacks."
The Ritsian war office today reported
1at suTcesses for the Rumanians in the
region of Aldesht. where 100 Teutons were
made risoners, and in the Alt district.
where Austro-German attacks were
l-aten off.
A rtillery activitv on the banks of the
SainUbe And in the Dobrudja is con
iantlyv increasing in Intensity.
A new flare-up of infantry fighting In
the latter theater of operations In ex
pected momentarily.
Hofh Petrograd and Berlin report com
parative calm on the eastern front.
5iERMAN TROOPS RUSHED
TO MACEDONIAN FRONT
Teutons Trying to Stem Onslaught Fol
lowing Monastir Victory.
tBy the laternatiemal News Serviee.)
1,ndion. Nov. 40.-Fresh German troops
Ia, 1, bi-n rushed to the Macedonian fr6nf
to aid the Bulgarians in steaming the
Fr-anco-Russian-tSerbian tide which Is
steadily sweeping northward, reaping the
fruits of yesterday's capture of the chief
I:ulgarian stronghold. Monastir. Official
announcement was made in Berlin today
I, this effect:
"Ne* Get-mans forces have arrived at
the tightinZ zone."
'The official German claim that Monastir
"as evacuated in time to avert a disas
ter. t he defending Bulgers and Teutons
l1 ho-nt out by the fact that, according
to the Frenen war office, only 622 pris
on, s wer- taken in the last twenty-four
Lours. thueh it is added that a consider
able quantity of war materiel was found
in th, abandoned city.
The taking of Monastir was described
1 today by the Paris war office In a sum
nuy as "a vast enveloping maneuver."
endin; in "complete victory for the al
Nothing definite was reported today by
either war office as to the events since
the fall of lonastir and the exact head
way made by the allied left wing.
U-nofficial wireless dispatches from
Rome state that the retreat of the But
garo-German forces has been turned Into
a "rout' and that a series of villages
north of the city have been taken by the
pursuers.
THREE YOUNG MEN HURT
WHEN AUTO OVERTURNS
Three young men found injured beside
an overturned automobile in the Wash
Intton-Baltimore boulevard last midnight.
about a mile this side of Hyattsville. were
brought to Providence Hospital by Sher
iff Robert Garrison, of Prince George
county. One of them was suffering from
a deep gash in the abdomen and the
cthers were badly bruised and cut about
the body.
They gave the names of R. W. Schenk,
25 years old, 127 V street northwest; A. K.
Buffle. "5, same address. and A. P. Ruble,
24. 519 1. street northwest.
Garrison belIeved the young men were
joy riding.
SHIP Y4KDS BOOMING.
New York, Nov. 20.--8teel merchant
weasels under contract to tbe built in pri
Svats Americp shipyards on Novembeil,
1916, accordinj to builders' return to the
Bureau of Navigation, number 417. of
1,i9,946 gross tons, an increase of 25.g75
tons over the returns for October 1.
During October American yards Jin
Ished 17 steel merchant vessels of 15,i1
gross tons, and made new contracts for
17 steel merchant vessels of 77.877 gross
tons.
TO mmLYEE HARVARD UNIT.
.Boston, Nov. 00.-Another addition to
the Harvard Hospital unit, inctuging six
surgeons, one dentist and twenty nurses,
left here yesterday and will sall today on
the liner Andunia for Liverpool. This
group will take the place of doctors and
nurses now at the British base hospital
In France, whose services expire Decem
ber 9.
This makes a total of 117 surgeons ano
dentists and 234 nurses that have been In
the service of the unit since # was
inae a n d un sUU,
1 1,~Z2 IN EMTR.
Grand Rapids, Mich., Nov. X-Alfred
Culey is on his way to mquette prison
today. Wes than 24 hour'after he shot
and killed his step-daughter. Coley be
came enraged because of a quarel with
his wife over the' girl yesterday, fired a
bullet at her, and after she had fallen.
crushed her skull with the butt of a ride.
Fearing violence at the hands of neigh
bors, he drove to town here and sur
rendered. Shortly after midnight a ape
cial session of court was held. Culey
pleaded guilty and was sentenced tol ife
imprisonment
SOLON USES AERO
!O. D. Bleakley Flies from Phil
adelphia to Capital.
Representative-elect 0. D. Bleakley, of
Pennsylvania, the first member of Con
gress who ever came to the Capital aeri
ally, arrived In Washington at 5 o'clock
yesterday afternoon from Philadelphia.
He was a passenger with Sergt. Will
lam C. Ocker. United States army avia
tor. in an aero of the type now used in
the army. The trip of 140 miles was made
In better than train time, without mis
hap or unusual adventure.
Because of the rugged nature of the
country around Franklin, the home of
Mr. Bleakley, the start was made from
Philadelphia. The machine was sighted
passing over Baltimore and Wilmington.
Del., at the rate of more than a mile a
1 minute. The hope of the pilot, however.
to make the trip in ninety minutes was
not realized. as a heavy wind reduced
the speed some time after the start from
Philadelphia at 2 o'clock.
tircling the Washington Monument and
f1 ing over the White House grounds,
the aero landed in Potomac Park a few
minutes before . o'clock. A big crowd,
which had watched eagerly for the ma
chine, was waiting. After receiving con
gratulations, Mr. Bleakley went to the
Willard.
Asked whether the Pepresentative-elect
intended to use the air route regularly
between Washington and his home, A. J.
Macy. of Chicago. who planned the trip.
said:
"Mr. Bleayley is 60 years old, a pro
gresnie thinker. and I would not hesi
tate to say that I believe It is his in
tcntion to use the aeroplane, whenever
weather conditions permit, In traveling
between Washington and his home. He
has every confidence in the safety of'
the machine."
Sergt. Ocker had the aero at the prov
Ing station in Long Island. where he
performed antics that suggested skirt
dances In the air. to demonstrate the
(raft's safety before undertaking the
journey.
MARRIED TWO WEEKS;
HELD AS EINE11LER
C
High Cost of Living Blamed by Roscoe
Doyle, Police Say.
After two weeks of married life, Ros
coe Doyle, 24 years old. assistant cashier
In the Adams Express Company's Wash
ington office, was arrested yesterday by
Detectives Berman and Cornwell, of the
Central Office, on a charge of having
embezzled $1,160 from his employers.
The high cost of living was assigned
by Doyle as the reason for appropriat
ing small sums from time to time dur
ing the last year, according to the police.
Doyle was released on bail of $2,000 for
his appearance In court today. He has
been employed by the express company
five years.
According to detectives, Doyle took
the money he is alleged to have em
bezzled In smafl amounts.
Since his marriage Doyle has lived at
the Wellington 6artments in Para
road.
AVIATRIX PLANS NEW
CHIGAliO-GOTHAI T1Ill
Will Try, Probably Next Week, to
Make Flight Without Stop.
(By the Iaternatieaal News Service.)
Chicago. Nov. 2.-If weather conditions
are favorable, Miss Ruth Law will ar
rive in Chicago next week and start an
other flight to break ,ber own record of
Sunday. when she flew 707 miles in eight
hours and thirty minutes and captured
America's cross-country nonstop record.
She Is confident that she can make the
trip to New York City without a stop.
Her Curtiss plane of the small, army ,
scout model had difficulty in gaining ele- 3
vation with a load of flfty-three gallons I
of gasoline, which was Insufficient to I
complete the trip. Charles Oliver, her
husband and manager. announced that
he would replace the motor with a new s
one capable of driving the airplane 105 g
miles an hour, which could probably car- g
ry the necessary amount of fuel for a ]
nonstop flight' t
The start of the second trip will be (
made from the flying field of the Aero
Club of Illinois, at Ashburne, where I
Miss Law will not have to deal with the I
tricky air currents of Grant Park.
She will have aid and conveniences
there, it was said by James Stevens, vice I
president of the club, and observer for I,
the Aero Club of America,
If the engine had stopped at any time
within the first ten miles; he said, It
would have meant certain death for t
IMiss Law, as she could not volplane toit
earth on account of the density of a~
building, while in Ashburne she could(
make as many starts as ngessary to a
gain the desired altitude wkn a heavy
load of gasoline.
PAYING BET IN CIURCH.
Bloomfield, N. J., Nov. 2.-Je first
payment on a 3|i election bet was made
yesterday, when Joseph Harwinkle put a
31 note on the collection plate of the
Park Methodist Church in the presence
of Thomas D. Gwinne, who had the Wil
son end of the wager.
Harwinkle, who bet on Hughes. Is
obliged to attend sorme Bloomfield, Glen
Ridge or Brookdale church each Sunday2
for fifty-two weeks and put 31 on the1y
collection plate each Sunday. If he should '
be unable to attend on any Sunday he'
must delegate some one to take his place.
Should Gwinne be unable to accompany
Harwinkle or his representative to church I :
on any Sunday he may .mea a suhst- I
tutu. I
I0GH PRICES HIT
U. S CLERK HARD
[ncreased Living Cost a Plea
for Bigger Salaries.
When the astounding increase In the
'dt of living in the District of Colum
bi is compared with the number of
government salaries that have remained
it a standstill for more than a genera
ion, no further argument is needed for
he Insistent demand which Federal
orkers will make on Congress for a
general regrading and advance in sal
kries, according to leaders in the cam
>aign for higher wages.
Big 1390 the cost of the ordinary ne
esslties of life has doubled, and in some
lases trebled, according to statistics pre
ared by Ethelbert Stewart. chief eta
laticlan of the Bureau of Labor. From
iuthoritative figures compiled beginning
n 18=0 the following Increases in certain
ssential articles of food are noted:
190. 1916.
tound steak. per pound.... .12% .27
'ork chops, per pound...... .10 .22
-lam, whole, per pound.... .13 .19
Ard. per pound.............. .10 .13
riour, by bag................$1.00 11.1
lotatoes, per peck........... .27 .a
'ggs. per dozen............. .24 .40
!reamery butter, per lb.... .30 .38
lugar. per pound............ .5% ..06%
These figures are the average for the
welve months of the year and In some
ases have been brought up to date from
rune. 1915, when the table was prepared.
n inost cases they underestimate rather
han exaggerate existing prices.
To meet these conditions, the govern
nent has in the District 7,690 efnployes
who get less than $720 per year. 2.640 who
eceive from $20 to $840. 720 who receive
rom $850 to $900. and 1.800 who receive
'rom $900 to $1.000.
Were it not for the fact that 00 per cent
f the employes who get less than $720 a
ear from the government work at out
ide occupations after their departmental
rork is finished, they would be utterly
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
IEUTSCHLAND RELEASED
11 FEDERAL CUSTDY
J-Liner Now Free to Leave Port on
Homeward Voyage.
By the laternatleasl News Servies,)
New London, Conn., Nov. 20.-The Ger
nan submarine Deutschland is now free
o depart. It ia thought she may do so
>efore many hours. Today her owners
leposited bonds totaling $97,500. These
.mply cover the possible recovery that
nay beadaa against her a result of
he loss of life and propez arising out
f her collision with the tug T. A. Scott.
r. Deputy United States Marshal Haw
ey delivered the papers releasing the
hip from Federal custody.
Before Capt. Koenig could again take
>er his command, Sheriff Tubbs ar
ived on the scene with four writs of at
achment against the subsea craft. The
theriff's tenure of possession was but
hort-lived, as the lawyers completed the
iling of all the bonds In one session.
There are now $212,000 damages claim
*d against the owners of the Deutsch
and in suits arising out of the collision.
After a' conference lasting four hours
etween C. H. Hull. attorney for the
laintiffs' and Charles 'W. Field. attor
ey for the defendant, the amount of
onds was agreed upon at $97,000.
Of this amount $12,500 'was for the Fed
'ral libel suit briught by the T. A. Scott
ompany for the loss of the tug. The
emainder is to cover the suits for the
ass of life.
The latter are brought by the relatives
,f Capt. John M. Gurney, Engineer Will
Im A. Caton, Cook Clarence B. Davison,
'ireman Edward A. Stone. alias Edward
ackson, and Deckhand Eugene Duzant.
All the complaints in these suits are
dentical, and all allege the Deutschland
vas the overtaking ship and was being
invigated carelessly and, negligently.
None of the officers of the Eastern For
varding Company, agents of the Deutsch
and, would discuss any phase cf the
ituation today.
IELD AFTER 16 YEARS
1R CAROLINA MURDER
ary Jones. Negro, Arrested on Minor
Charge, Said to Have Confessed.
After sixteen years of freedom, Cary
ones, 39 years old, negro, was arrested
esterday by Detectives Stringfellow and
mbrey and held for the murder of
Villiam Martin, at Mountville, S. C.
Jones was brought to detective head
uarters yesterday for investigation on
charge of having threatened to shoet
fellow-workman in a stable at 211 E
trect northwest. He and his brooer,
tichard Jones, had been involved in
rouble with a third employe. When
ary Jones was questioned he admitted,
he police say, that he killed Martin at
Valter Reed Church in 1900 or 1901, about
hree miles from Mountyille.
Jones said he escaped to Charlotte, N.
. where he lived about eight years. He
as been in Washington about the sane
ngth of time. Authorities of Laurene
ounty, 8. C.. were Informed the man
ras held here.
The uncovering of Jones' record yes
erday recalled a case in which Detec
lye Stringfellow figured several year.
go, when he caught the murderer. of a
hinese who was killed in his laundry
tFourteenth and Monroe streets about
our years ago. While on his beat in
be Third precinct, as a private, String
sllow overheard a conversation betweent
everal drunken negroes, on tlae strength
f which he arrested -Nathaniel Johnson
nd Theodore Norris, negroes. pgti
rere sentenced to serve thirty pears in
be penitentiary, and shortly afterward
tringfellow was made a detective iser
eant.
New York, Nov. 9K--Mrs. Alice Refily
yeers old, died min1 St. Lawrence HesJ'
ital yesterday from' PIosbni taken .Mc
entally.
She had been ill and had been taking
owders. which were kept on a sbelt In
he bathroom. Early in the dlay -he took
y mistake a powder for use ha 90111ng
caches. She died a few beeru aftt
saching the bogitak
hMWof Upwa,
Abus Pep Benedict
(r Inasesiel News Cesee.)
Rome, Nov. U,-The condition of
the agfed Francis Joseph, of Aus
trIa, Hungary, is the cause of
anxiety at the Vatican. The tact
that the sego dws physiciants ae
giving out Periodical bulletne IS
Interpreted as ominous.
Pope Benedict receves frequsmt
reports. The latest at hand says
the Emperor's condition Is seriols,
but not alarming. His symptoms
are bronchial Irritation, a slight
temperature, and rapid and irreg
ular pulse.
?'elegraph Tip.
London. Nov. 0-Brig. Gen. Dunesa J.
Glasfurd, director of military training in
Australia before the war, has died of
wounds received on the Somme front.
says a dispatch from Paris today.
Carlisle. Ill.. Nov. 2.-Kate Mulcahy,
who served Mrs.-John McCabe as cook
for forty-one years, Is made Mrs. Mb
Cabe's heir In the will just probated. The
estate is worth 200,w.
Chicago, Nov. 20.-Tommy Sekora. 11,
Is dead today as the result of swallowing
a penny, which an operation failed to
remove.
Punxsutawney, Pa.. Nov. 20.-The post
office and store of Mahoning Supply
Company, at Walston. near here, were
robbed early today by thieves of $1,200
In money and stamps.
London, Nov. 20-The Dutch envoy at
Berlin has been Instructed by his gov
ernment to Inform the German govern
ment that deportations from Belgium
have aroused an unfavgwable Impression
in Holland. sa)s a wireless dispatch from
Amsterdam today.
New York. Nov. 2.-Cincinnatl today
was selected by the National Social Unit
Organization as the field for a national
laboratory experiment in social work.
Sixteen communities asked for the honor.
Among these were Washington, Balti
more, and Newark.
Chattanooga, Tenn.. Nov. 20.-Speaker
'hamp Clark asserted today that the
Democrat. would control the next na
tional House of Representatives. "1 think
the De'mocrats have a majority of one,
two, or three besides the six Independ
ents." he said
IndIanapolis, Ind.. Nov. 20.-The Na
tional W. C. T. U. convention this after
noon decided to appeal to President Wil
son to stop the sale of liquor to soldiers
snd militiamen encamped on the border.
Towanda. Pa., Nov. 20.-Timothy E.
Bride. 47, a rich farmer in Asylum town
ship, died soon after being struck In the
stomach by a pitchork handle. The tines
of the fork were caugnt in a hay press
belt, and the fork was hurled around,
striking Mr. Bride in the stomach.
London. Nov. 20.-Advance of a half
penny in American cotton and three half
pence In Egyptian cotton today occa
sioned'temporary suspension of business
on the Manchester Exchange.
Muncie. Ind.. Nov. 20.-The Whitley
Malleable Iron and Casting Works, one
of the large factories in Eastern Indiana,
was destroyed by fire early today, caus
in;: a loss estimated at from 50.000 to
SK0,0.
London. Nov. 20-A Reuter dispatch
from Wellington. New Zealand. says the
exrort of vool has been prohibited.
Berlin. Nov. 20.-Warsaw University has
opened a series of lectures to prepare
Poles for higher Polish administrative of
fices. seys the Overseas News Agency.
of the 4341 applications, 100 persons were
admitted.
Bridgeport. Conn., Nov. 20.-Following
an explosion that set fire-to her clothing
and to inflammable material hanging over
the kitchen range when she attempted to
light a fire with kerosene, two children
of Mrs. Anna Baxse, of Kings Highway.
were fatally burned.
Vienna, Nov. 20.-Count Adam Tarnoew
ski von Tarnow, new Austro-Hungarian
Ambassador to the United States, will
leave for America December 16 with a
retinue of 10 persons, Including the
Countess.
Columbus 0.,. Nov. 20.-W. 0. Van
Houten, one of the Union soldiers of the
band that captured Jefferson Davis at
IrwInville, Ga., at the end of the Civil
War, Is dead here and will be buried in
Hilliard Cemetery, of which he was su
perintendent for more than 20 years.
Can You
Thanksgivii
$7.50, $5
Given to Washington women
menus to The Washington Herald
Here's a chance for Wash
culinary skill. Plan a dinner fo
Thanksgiving Day-and send you
Washington Herald.
The best menu, in the cpiu
awarded $7.50. The second b
thtrd $2.50.
RU
Edlitor, Washington HeraM~.
'The three winning menos, a
.ubomitted them, will be pu.li;h
Monday and Tuesday-ine mb
U. 8. T0 FORCE
BORDER PEACE
CarranzA Must Protect, or
Face Intervention.
(3j the Intemratie"al News Sestie.)
Atlantic City, N. J.. Nov. 2.-The
American delegates of the Mexican Peace
Commisson decided this afternoon to
force Carransa to terms. .They deter
mined, It Is said. upon Awo alternative
plans. Either the first chief must protect
the border or the United States wil clean
lip Mexrio.
At the ameeting of the American en
voys Secretary of the Interior Lane told
of his conference Sunday with Presi
dent Wilson. Mr. Lane had just arrived
from Washington. He said the President
cempletely approved of the stand taken
by the United States commissioners and
urged that the American demands be Pre
sented to the Mexicans In the foom of an
ultimatum.
At the meeting of the joint commission
tomorrow morning, the American dele-i
gates, it is stated, intend to deliver the
following message to the Mexicans:
"The United States government can
consent' to the withdrawal of its troops
from Mexico only on these conditions:
"Mexico must assume full responsibility
for preventing Mexican attacks upon
American territory along the border.
"Mexico must make good CarranZa's
promise to 'destroy or isolate' Villa and
other bandits who threaten the Amer
can frontier.
"Mexico must not and cannot expect
any apology from the United States fori
sending any army in pursuit of outlawse
who had invaded the United States and
murdered citizens.
"Mexico must aband'on the idea of a
neutral zone extending fifty or more miles
on either side of the international line
where the troops of the United States
and Mexico might co-operate. Such a
scheme would shift from Mexico to the
United States the responsibility of keep
ing Mexican outlaws in Mexico."
Secretary Lane and his fellow commis
siceers will also return to the Mexicans
thir counter-plan an unacceptable.
INS RED WAR LOAN
MEETS NO OBSTACLE
President Said to Be Favorable to
Morgan Firm's Proposal.
It was admitted at the White House
yesterday that the purpose of the confer
cnce ottahied by H. P. Davison. of J.
V. Mol'rgan and Company, with President
Wilson last Saturday concerned another
huge loan to England and the allies.
M r. Davison. it is said, desired to learn
if tuF government would approve such
a ](-an without security. He is under- I
stood to have repeated the assertion he
n'ade in Chicago two weeks ago, that
unless the allies were given sufficient
money to continue the war successfully
the financial equilibrium of the world
would not he maintained.
President Wilson has made no state
ment concerning the conference, but in
dividuals who have daily access to the
White House say he will not oppose the
plan. State Department and Treasury
cfclals are studying the situation.
Mr. Davison is understood to have told
President Wilson that his recent investi
gations in Europe convinced him it was
not only necess-try. but safe to give the
allies all the additional money they need.
without even a scrap of paper as se
curity.
Additional evidence that the administra
tion is not adverse to giving financial aid
to the allies is found in a recent com
merce report. The publication, issued last
Saturday. the date of Mr. Davison's visit
to the White House, read like a prospec
tus of Russian securities. Ten pages
were devoted to tables which listed every
form of security now in the market if
that country as "attractive to investors."
HM SEX LTERATUE.
Chicago. Nov. 20.-Drink, immoral
amusement. sensational sex books, and
a desire for fine clothes are the principal
temptations of youth catalogued by
Bishop Samuel Fallows, of the Reformed
Episcopal Church, in commenting on a,
list of temptations compiled in New
York by Nicholas Murray Butler, presi-.
dent of Columbia University. and others.
"The loose moral attitude of young
women is the greatest temptation to
young men," said Mrs. D. Harry Ham
mer, social worker. "The unchaperoned
condition is appalling."
Plan a
1g Dinner?
00, $2.50
who send-n the beat Thanksgiving
Menu Editor before next Sunday.
.ngton housewives to show their
the great American feast day
menu to the Menu Editor 'of The
ion of the Menu Editor, will be
st will be awarded 45 and the
LES'
Gve peope; write o oe~
ddreus Weters to the Men.
'ith the name of the wolthen who
id in The Herald, next Sunday,
day
mor Um; MU =a.
Aiane, Oio, ,,v. M.-A.. to he
gpVtered by a poMr of Smged baum'..
Ralph Poto. 3. whe soty tody abot and
Perlously wounded his genstheart. Mabel
Anstin. turned his revetor en himself.
He fired three belets f0t his beat and
4 believed to be dying.
Poto eeeeie flum the seene of the
Austin ahoodg on hib motreycle. Farm- I
Dra, pursuing, came upon him when his
rasoline gave out. Poo iot the girl
when she told him she could not go with
im any longer because of her father's
Pbjections.
NEGRO ROBS GIRL
Fiold-Up Man Injures Woman
and Escapes with Purse.
Within a block of her home. Mine Mary
ihumate, a 19-0ar-old girl, was assaulted
and robbed by an unidentified negro at
Bixth and G streets early last nghL The
negro attempted to tear a diamond ring
from the half choked woman's flager. but
was frightened off by her cries for help.
Miss Shumate, whose father. George
Shumate, conducts a dairy at 62 F street
southwest. had been visiting friends in
G; street and started home about 9;:1
)'clock. A negro church and a frame
iwelling front on Sixth atreet near G
street, with an alleyway between, and
as the young woman passed this point her
assailant leaped at her.
The negro clutched her throat In one
and as he struggled with the other to
tear the ring from her finger. She squirm
ed from the man's grasp and her piercing
shrieks aroused the neighborhood. The
iegro seized the girl's pocketbook, ran
:ut Sixth street and then up F -etreet,
where he disappeared.
Miss Shumate was carried to her home
and placed in the care of the family phy
*ician. There were scar.s on her neck,
the flesh was torn from her ring finger
and she was hysteral. The only de
scription she could give of her assailant
was that lie was a powerful, dark
iisaged negro. His face was cut by her
inger nails.
Polic- of the Fourth precinct reported
the hold-up to headquarters and every
ivallable man from Central Omnce wasi
sent to the scene.
Early this morning no trace of the foot
uad had been found.
Miss Shumate had been given $30 yes
erday afternoon to purchase a dress..
4he returned from the shopping district
,or suprer and told her patents she had
tot found what she wanted. Her father
old her to keep the money. She had
26 in her pocketbook when she went via
ting. The thief got this sum.
The crime of last night is the third at
ack on a woman within a week. A week
ago Mrs. Annie M. Scherer was beaten
inconscious in Kalorama road northwest
knd the next day Alice Tilgman, a do
nestile, was assaulted and robbed at
rhirtieth and Porter streets northwest.
So far none of the highwaymen has
:>een located.
11fS PATRONAiE BASIS
OF CUSTOMS SERVICE
Chief of Department Says Eliciency
Steadily Has Degenerated.
(y the Internatieal News Serviee.p
New York. Nov. 20.-The present cus
toms service was attacked today as a
fepartment of political patronage In
stead of merit, by Frank W. Halstead.
lead of the United States Customs Serv
ce, speaking at the fourth annual con
rerence of customs officers here.
Mr. HaIstead maintained that under
the present system of appointments hy
he President, the efficiency of the serv-.
ce had degenerated in some parts to:
'from zero to N) per cent."
He advocated the abolition of naval of
i-ers in the service, and declared that
the collectors of lorts and surveyors
should be put under civil service.
"I am sorry to say.' declared the
-peaker, "that there are those in the
'ervice who appear at their offices only
II pay day."
LABOR COUNCIL ACTS
TODAY ON 8-HOUR LAW
'ederation Delegates Will Hear Broth
erhood Chiefs and Outline Plans.
By the laternatieaal News Service.)
Baltimore, Md.. No- 20.-With every'
indication pointing to a love feast. the
icads of the four great railroad brother
hoods- aristocrats of the labor world
om1e to Baltimore tomorrow for a vote
,f confidence in whatever action they see
It to take in the impending eight-hour
isis. That the American Federation of
Labor will give them this vote of con-'
dence there seems little doubt tonight.
i A differences have been showed to
hbackground. leaders here say. andl
Iwill he a solid front that organized Is
h. r v'ill preent to opponents of the
,iason bill. The only uncertainty in
[he matter is what form the federation's
ndorsement will take.
President Gompers and the "royal
amily. as members of his administra
ion are known. are theoretically opposed
o a universal eight-hour day by national!
legislation. Gompers holds that Congress
-an just as eatily take it away as grant
i.1
Blut iln this he Is opposed strongly by
lt' nmo.t powerful organizations In his
rederation-the miners, machinists, and
garment workers--and so strong are they
hat it was apparently certain tonight
they will override his objections and In
lorse the brotherhoods unequivocally,
The federation late today took a slap
at the Massachusetts Slupreima Court for
is famous 'labor is property" decision.
The executive council advised that labor
everywhere gisregard the decision "what
tver the consequences."
SAYS XE WAB FAiE w00EE.
Potteville, Pa., Not* 25-Evidence that
L)aniel lSchalle, of Arwiguburg, conduct-'
-d an extensive fake matrimonial agency
in this city has been procuemd by Posal'
Inspector V'alentine Schoenberger and
awIll be used against Schaller at his trial
.n Philadelphia next month.
Schaller, It Ia alleged, reseeted a
*ielf to his victims as "a young and bean
mt a distance were answered, and after
e. few letters were pasedm the "gI'"
would pronuise to meet her correspondent
f the carfare was forwar'dad. When this
was received ilans.s was feigned andj
Daniel gebher, of Owwsbgg einmk
the lnseigea
PLAN WOULD LET
l. C. C. FX WAGES
Congress to Be Asked to Em
power Commnsim.
Representative W. C. Adamson. father
2f the eight-hour oaw. after a conference
with President Wilson late Yesteday.
manOmmi that Congress weon be
Lnked to increase the Interstate Com
neree Osmunisaion from seven to ieW
members. The purpose would be, he
ald, to bring wage disputes within the
Icope of the commission.
The 0hi11 of the four big brother
hOo W@aren R. Stone. W. G. Lee, L
E. Sheppard and W. S. Carter-were leav
=g the White House as Mr. Adamse ar
Ived. The leaders told President Wil.
-m that they had come to offer cm
gratUons on his re-election and per
kmnally to aseure him they felt safe with
he cae In his hands.
The railroad men were with the Pres
dent less than ten minutes. When they
eft. Stone. chief of the locomotive en
lineers. was aked if the vote taken.by
he unions in August would stand in the
vent of the eight-hour law is declared
anconstitutlonal.
"We will arsuer that Inter.' he re.
Mied.
The union leaders appeared to have
teen greatly pleased at the reception ac
.orded them by President Wilson, not
withstanding their unwillingness to talk.
Wants Wage-Piang Powes.
According to Representative Adamson.
k feature of the proposed legislation %lil
Ne an instructIon to the commissinn to
boustrue the commerce at to mean t hn
the rate-fxing body will also have the
power to fix wages An effort silt he
nade to enact the entire rogram sus
lested by President Wilson to 'ongrrs
at August.
Standing on the steps of the Whit
Rouse, Mr. Adamson. who is chairman
>f the Interstate and Foreign Commer-.
r'om ,ttee of the House. characterise~l
lie I gal steps taken in test the cs'rti
utionality of the eR:ht-hour law a-4
"strike .uits." ills stat. ment %,- a, -
-epted as representing the atuitud. .f ti.
admilnitratino concerning the efforts ,r
the railroads to combat the law.
"The railroad's Axecutives Are ang V
lecause they did not ret an increase 1i
rreight rates." Mr. Adarnson declarse
'President Wilson never made any suen
lromise, but the high-priced la%3yers are
low endeavoring to make It appear that
Ie did."
The Department of Justice took swift
Ind decisive action yesterday to defend
he eight-hour law. Kansan City was me
ected as the battleground or the first
,kirmish in the cours. Two assisetant
n the attorney .ganerl's oiloa started
West la night te meet the atach o%
the law started by the Sata o ad the
rnlon Pacific railroada
During the afternoon the brotherhood
leaders spent an hour with Attorney Gen
nral Gregory and Solicitor General Da
ris. Messrs. Todd and Underwood being
also present.
RAILWAY EXEVTIES
WILL TESTiFY FIRST
ro Be Heard by Newlands Committee
at Hearing 'Tursday Morning.
Th railway executives' advisorm com
mittee will Initiate the testimony to be
taken by the Newlands railway com
mittee Thursday morning at 10 o'clock.
iccording to a decision reached by the
ioint commIttee In the course of a two
hours executive session yesterday after
AN to the discussion of the most
rpractjcal method of procedure. the com
mittee decided that the best purposes
)f the hearing would be served to have
the railroad executives state their ries s
if the railroad problem. The decision
was reached unanimously, Chairman
ewlands said.
The committee decided also to hold one
zession each day. lasting from 10 oc'cock
n the morning until 1:30. No session will
be held today beeause the railroad
?xecutives require time in which to pre
lare their views for presentation, and
session will tint he held tomorrow be
,ause IwpresentatIves Adamson and
Esch. who are members of the joint
-ommittee. must attend a conference on
L till which the last session of Congress
lid not- dispose of.
In outling procedure. the committee
lid not undertake to determine who shall
e heard after the railroad executives
lave appeared. lznator Newlands said
le was not informed which of the rail
road executives will appear fit., but
hat the committee had reached its de
lsion on the assurances that the
?xecutives are holding themselves in
'eadines. to appear at the pleasure o'
he committee.
Some method of preventing strikes
without resorting to force will he one
>f the principal aims of the Joint con
nittee. according to Senator Newlands.
rho characterized the resort to force as
'the most barbaric and brutal of pro
:eases" and asked aid in finding a
substitute.
MEGRESS WITH PISTC'
HOLDS UP WHITE MAN
A colored woman, at the point et a
jun, held up Roderick J. Henderwe at
the foot of Thirty-third street lest
tight and robbed him at $22. Maed
ng to a report made to the police,
Henderson. who lives at 2713 K street
siorthwest, said he was standing at the
Itoot of the street when a slender me
jress about 30 years old approshed
mim and, at the point of a revolver. de
manded his money.
John L. Smith. 412 Sixth street morth
wreet, reported to the pollee last might
that he either lost or was robbed of a
socketbook containing 881 when ta the
neighborhood of FIfth and H streets
morthwest yesterday afternoeg.
Chiage, Nov. I.--A. C. Prost, trastisa
imagate and mfllionaire defendemt ts
the WASS.WS Alaskan fraud come, was to
Ity found not guilty of bribing the jury
that acquitted him.
Sbnilar verdicte were returned in Ped
irai Covrt -in the,9of Oitver W.
Bouthe, foraner .f , te island.
EL., and Burt Wing. am ,buw whe
were charged-with brihery ia cemnea.
Pih the - Mas,
