LJiii uN
jk- i jti ja am U i i'i ju
n-W
m V
39TteA7
Vt
NIGHT
ittmtmn
,V
NIGHT
EXTRA
EXTRA
H-
hf
jt
vol. in. NO. 59
Jj
PUILAJDEIiPIIIA, TUESDAY, NOVEMJJBB 21, 1018
Carutoiit. 1010, it n PcsMo Lxrori Cohmnt.
PIUGE ONJB3 OJ3Haf
feftner
V V
LABOR FEDERATION PLEDGED
TO BATTLE FOR EIGHT HOURS
ANETTO RESIST ARBITRATION
Wild Enthusiasm as
Gompers, Promises Aid to Trainmen
"flight With Last Breath' Says
Leader Press Denounced
BALTIMORE, Nov. 21 The full power of all the organized Inbor of tho
nation was thrown today squarely behind
, working day.
Amid scenes or wuacsc emnusiasm, nvo men, who, in n measure, control the
destinies of millions of workers, mutually pledged themselves to givo their
''undivided efforts to the securing of an eight-hour day for all who toil."
Tho men were President Gompers, of the American Federation of Labor, and tho
heads of tho four great brotherhoods of
Carter. W. G. Leo and L. E. Shoppard.
on under tho eyes of hundreds of delegate to tho federation convention, and
"they yelled themselves hoarso in approvnl of their leaders statements.
Each of tho brotherhood chiefs nddresscd tho convention, recounting the
fight for the Adamson law. They asserted their determination first to let tho
Government try to beat the railroads at their own game in tho courts and if
that fails then to resume tho fight for tho eight-hour law and continue it "so
long as there is breath left in us to fight."
GOMPnnS PI-KDGE3 AM.
At tho conclusion ot their speeches
Gompers took the platform and pledged
ta the brotherhood chiefs "tho undivided
ind unequivocal support of every man and
p woman In tho organised Inbor movement."
"They hae thrown down the gantlet
tnd we accept tho challonge," cried
Compero. ''And In tho language of that
Immortal Shakespeare. 'Lay on, MacDui,
and damned bo ho who first cries hold,
enough "
Pandemonium broke loose as Oompcrs
finished, nnd mutual handshaking followed,
A delegate, above the confusion, yelled a
motion to Rvc a rising1 vote ot thanks and
confidence to the brotherhood chiefs, nnd
It was given with every man on his feet
and cheering
1 fair warning was given to national legis
lators that the railroad workers will permit
ef no compulsory arbitration legislation by
W. 0. lce, of tho trainmen.
"We're going to work for nn eight-hour
, iiy for ocry man who tolls, nnd If we
i can't get It we'll fight for It," ho shouted.
"And we'll fight compulsory arbitration as
'Ion is wo hao breath In us to fight."
Us slanchly supported President "Wilson
P In hla speech.
'They call Woodrow Wilson a. weakling."
he asserted hotly. "Well. It took, more cour-
E'e to write across the front pages of tho
newspapers of this nation 'Chief Executive
i Favors night-Hour Iaw' than It would to
rlte "War "With Mexico.' "
NFTWSPAPKRS ACCUSED
W. 8. Carter, of the firemen, nttacked
the railroads for "subsidizing the press of
the nation." He charged flatly that tho rail
roads had deliberately bought the editorial
an partly the public opinion ot the nation"
through millions ot dollars In advertising.
"Thero Is too longer a free press In this
country," he cried. "At the outset of this
controversy seventy-flvo per cent of the
: editorial opinion was with us. But after
: the railroads had placed nds In 3000 dally
r newspapers there was a wholesale reversal
of opinions."
Absolute confidence In the result 'of the
controversy was voiced by Stone, of the
f Engineers. Arbitration, he declared, has
, fulled because tho railroads constituted
themselves the Judge and Jury in all cases.
CALLS ARBITRATION" FAILURE
"Why." he declared, "we have two arbl-
( tration awards now which wo cannot get
: them to put Into effect, although the date
i for their effectiveness Is long since passed."
Ilut the time has come, Stone said, when
the railroads are on tho defensive, Instead
' ef labor, and he declared, "We have great
Wth that the man In the White House
s will see that we get what was given us
; toluntarlly." "
Stone accused the railroads of seeking to
E: Bankrupt labor by starting "3000 Injunction
t wits'' throughout the country.
They thought," said Stone", "that we
would have to hire 3000 lawyers to con
tut these suits. But we're going to fool
i'em. We're going to watch the railroads
s flint the Government under which they
i- ttv."
Organized labor. Stone said, stands
ji United In this crWs and the 500 delegates
JUed their approval.
Our Interests are common." he declared.
pThe time has long" since passed when one
tlM of labor can succeed If other classes
r not succeeding."
Let told the delegates the history of the
Srlke order Which wont out this summer.
iE!" ono ' tno eix hundred delegates at
Washington, lin nnM ln.l a rilffrnHv
orded code telegram tilling him how to
RftCL SUCH It 'irianillvA ri ntiavauft lira
tk necessary because the railroads In
ui past had Issued telegraphlo orders In
Continued on race Two, Column Six
THE WEATHER
FnnKnARv
for Philadilnhbt nml 4Vi'nV,i KVtiV
P continued cool tonight and Wednes-
Eh!!, with lauitut i,n.n... hnt
i5ftty-8ta; or twentv-eiaht degrees:
Ifreth northerly winds.
U5NOTH OF DAY
833 .m.Moon xl... 3:41 a.m.
4.40 p.m.lMooa souths. 8 JO -m.
U sets
iUKLUVABE 111VKU TIDB CHANGES
1 CHESTNUT STB8CT
Water K.nt ii - . .-
Water 1033 a m lll.h . lA.lTnn.
- --.W I...SU ,, i.... -.
TtaiPERATCBE AT EACH HOUR
ST Ol in I 11 Tiol T7 S-. oT i I A
-. . . .. , (i t, , j, ,..
Wl 36 33 4lT43T"3TnuT T
J Is Not Too Late
Convention, Led by
tho movement for a universal eight-hour
railrondtrainmcn, W. S. Stone, W. S.
tt was n lovo feast of labor, carried
'S
TROOPS POIND
CRAIOVA FORTS
Germans Take Important
Towns and Heights From
Rumanians
FOES BEGIN TO RETREAT
BERLIN". Nov. 21.
Austro-German forcos are now In front
of tho Important Rumanian town ot Craiova,
attacking Its defenses. News ot the suc
cessful drive on Craiova wni contained In
nn official statement Issued by tho War Of
fice today. The headquarters of tho first
Rumanian army has been removed from
Craiova. Along the Alt River the Austro
Germans have captured Important towns
and fortified heights from the Rumanians.
Elsewhere on. the front Russo-Rumanlan at
tacks were repulsed with heavy losses.
Railways cast ot Bucharest have been
bombed by German airmen.
Constanza and Cernavoda have again
been shelled by Russian and Rumanian
guns.
The official report on the Rumnnlnn thea
ter of war says: a
Army group of Archduko Carl In
he Ludova sector nnd In tho wooded
Carpathians the German rifles carried
out patrol enterprises as planed. Forty
prisoners were tnken. Attempts by tho
Russians to advance In a neighboring
sector In order to relieve the pressure
on other parts of the front wero re
pulsed with sanguinary losses. On the
eastern frontier of Transylvania only
minor fighting took place. Austro
German troops north of Campolung re
pulsed soveral night attacks of the
Russo-Rumanlan forces. On the Alt
River some important towns nnd forti
fied heights were captured by us from
the Rumanians after severe fighting.
Our infantry now stands before
Craiova, which city, up to the present
time, has been tho scat of the chief
command of tho first Rumanian army.
Army group of Kleld Marshal von
Mackensen (Dohrudja) Nothing of
Importance has taken place except ar
tillery firing. Constanza and Cerno
vada wero shoJIed Our fljcrs bom
barded transportation establishments
near Bucharest.
Nothing Important has occurred on the
eastern front during the last twenty-four
hours, the War Office announced.
PETROGRAD, Nov. 21. Rumanian
forces In the southwestern part of Rumania
have begun a retreat as a result of the
great Austro-Gerrnan drive on Craiova, the
Russian War Office reported today. The
Rumanians are falling back to Fillasu
(Flllashl) on the Buctiarest-Orsova Hall
way. SERBIAN FORCES CONTINUE
PURSUIT OF FOES; OCCUPY
SEVEN TOWNS IN ADVANCE
SALONICA, Nov. 21.
Serbian forces ore hotly pursuing the
Bulgarian-German forces retreating toward
Prllep after being forced out of Monastir.
They have captured the towns of Makovo,
Continued on Paso lire. Column Ono
GIRLS WANTING PURE JIEN
TOLD TO 3IAKE THEM PURE
Woman From Hull House Talks to So
cial Hygiene Body
ST, LOUIS, Mo., Nov. 21. "We must
teach our girls that If they want to marry
Innocent, pure men, they must help them
to be Innocent and pure," declared Dr,
Rachael S. Yarrow, of Hull House, Chicago,
before the American Social Hygiene Asso
ciation convention here today
Poctor yarrow, a professor In the medi
cal college jti the University of Illinois,
represented 'a Isa Jane Addams at the con
vention. 'The problem of stamping out vice among
women Is particularly an economla one,"
she said. "Nine out of ten women today
Km nn other choice than man-lace. Thu
tenth woman, economically Independent, is J
never so much tempted as ner sisters."
to Begin Reading
"j
DOUBLE MARKING
ALLEGED AS PLAN
OF BALLOTFRAUD
Democrats' Attorney to Is
sue Warrant for Election
Board's Arrest
INQUIRY IN VARE WARD
Chnrges Ballots Were Shifted
After Being Cnat by
Double-Crossing
Ignatius A Qulnn, counsel for the Demo
cratic City Committee, today charged that
ballots In Senator Vnre's home ward had
been marked by "omebody" after they had
left the hands of the voters.
The division In which fraud alleged
I the twelfth of the Thirty-ninth Ward,
one of the don Mown strongholds of the
Organization Nineteen ballots cast for
tho Pemo'cralle presidential electors were
marked also with a croia In the Republican
square ; n lone ballot for the Uughes-Knir-banks
electors also w.ts marked In tho
Democratic column Of these ballots nine,
teen were officially accredited to Hughes,
the other being given to Wilson
Qulnn would not say this afternoon from
whom he obtained his Information regard
ing the alleged fraud. He did state, how
ever, that he would shortly Issue affidavits
upon which vvarants for tho arrest of the
entire election board In the division wpuld
bo asked.
ARRCSTS HXPKCTED
Investigation by workers for the city
committee In the majority of the wards ex
cept those classed ns Independent may lead
to wholesale arrests for violation of elec
tion statutes, the extent of which has not
been witnessed since Ulankenburg and his
colleagues a decade ago unearthed the
ballot-box stuffing scandal.
The exposure by Qulnn of this nlleged
method to circumvent tho will of tho voter
Is regarded by politicians ns more subtle
and just as effective ns thoso of "Sam"
Salter and the other political descendants
of the Mini' McManes type of bosslsm."
The impression that fraud is committed
necessarily by doublo marking ballots Is
Incorrect, nccordlng to both Judge Harratt,
who Is sitting in the election court, nnd
Qulnn himself.
NO FRAUD, SATS JUDGK
'The election officers were unanimous In
their decision that there was no fraud."
Bald Judge Barratt today. "There was
nothing else to do but to- allow the ballots
to bo tabulated In the official count In ac
cordance with the dfflri'ldir'V'tlft Supreme
Court." Ho added that a contest could
be started Independent by whoever chose
to do so.
It was pointed out that ballots' were fre
quently double-marked, but In this case,
even though the ballots has been mlsmarked
Coutlnned on Tsse Two, Column Ont
BRITISH "SHORT TERM"
NOTES FROWNED UPON
Advisory Council of Federal
Board Discourages Purchase
by Reserve Banks
WASHINGTON, Nov. 21. The ndvlsory
council of tho Federal Reserve Hoard, In
session here, th.n afternoon advised the
board to discourage all Federal reserve
banks from buying short-term British Gov
ernment notes. The advisory council, com
posed of some of the most powerful bankers
of the country, held that It wan "not sound
business policy" to do so.
The reserve board requested tho council's
opinion to determine whether to adopt this
as a method of taking care of tho great
gold influx Into the United States.
BISHOP AbPHEUS W. WILSON,
NOTED MISSIONARY, DEAD
Was Senior in Episcopate of Methrxiist
Church South
BALTIMORE. Nov. St. Illshop Alpheus
W. Wilson, senior Ulshop of the Methodist
Kplscopal Church south, and widely known
missionary, died today at his home. Bishop
Wilson's death came suddenly. He had
been visiting relatives In Richmond and had
returned only yesterday.
1.AND3IASTER WEDS ON SLY
Silas E. Hummel Eludes Friends and
Is Married to Miss Elsie
Schlinp, Soprano
Silas H. Hummel, conductor of the Phila
delphia band, who resides at 2S3S North
Carlisle street, was married to Miss Elsie
Schllng, a soprano, of Second and Chew
streets, 0!ne,y.
It was learned today that the couple
slipped away from their friends and were
married yesterday. Neither of the princi
pals would tell of the details of the wed
ding. They will go for a honeymoon trip
to Niagara Falls and Toronto, Can.
When questioned the bandmaster refused
to tell his friends where they were mar
ried. The romance began when the bride
first appeared as a soloist with bands con
ducted by her husband. The bride Is well
known in musical circles of this city as a
concert and church singer.
There were no brass bands this time,"
was the only comment;' of the bandmaster.
He waa a widower for more than six years.
The couple will reside at the Carlisle street
address after Pecembtr J.
"The Vacant World," a Serial Story
"WALLINGF0RD,"
O'NEIL TERMS
MUTUAL HEAD
"Hot Air Common and
Smoke Preferred," He
Calls Stock
WILL DEMAND TESTIMONY
Insurance Chief Replies Warmly
to Pension Life Official's
Attack
fili n Staff Corrripotirffiit,
ItARIUSHUIlO, Nov :t. CharacterUing
t.jndon D. Wood a's a "J. Rufus Walling
ford" and n dealer In "hot-air common nnd
smoke prefered," tnsuranco Commissioner
O'Nell today delivered a smashing rebuttnl
to a statement Isued by Wood In which he
(O'Nell) was dubbed a political crusader.
In his "comeback" nt Wood's statement,
Commissioner O'Nell makes nddltlnnnt
charges of a sensational nature ag.ilnst thr
grnnd consolldntor of Insurnncn companies.
He nectifcs Wood of paving hlmeclf a
salary from funds of the I'nlon Casualty
Company which should havo been used to
pay claims. He declared that hn would no
longer tolernto Wood's nlleged gnnibllng
with funds which are for the protection of
widows and oiphans lie stated that soon
Wood would be placed under oath nnd given
an opportunity to tell what he known about
certain transactions.
onuii.'s stati:mi:nt
The statement follows;
When I took charge of the insurance
department. I Inherited the Union
Casualty trouble 1 did everything 1
could to help S'r Wood liquidate tho
nffalrs of the company without going
Into tho hands of a, receiver, nccordlng
to nn agreement made by Mr. Wood
with Attorney tleneral Hruwn nnd nt
torneis representing stockholders nnd
pollci holders The conference was held
In Philadelphia In March
I soon found that Mr Wood had not
only broken every agreement made at
that time, hut that he nWo failed to
carry out his promises made to me I
also ascertained that money Hint
should have been used to pay claims
was paid out to Mr. Wood and Mr.
Welch as salaries, notwithstanding the
fact that they were not officials of the
company. I then started nn Investiga
tion of the other nctlvltles controlled
by Mr Wood nnd micovcred his schemo
of getting possession of tho assets und
stock of seventy-eight life insurance
companies by exchanging "hot air com
mon and smoke preferred" stock and
bonds of the Consolidated Investment
Company, a Delaware corporation, for
the stock of Jtlio arlous Insurance com
panies. If his schemes nnd methods are not
Illegal, they arc at lenst contrary to
puhllo policy, and this department will
not stand for Mr. Wood or any other
"J. Rufus Walllngford" making a finan
cial football out of life insurance nnd
gambling with tho fundi that are for
tho sole protection of widows and or
phans. If I am appointed recolvcr, ns
I fully expect to be, 1 will nrrnnge he.tr-
t'6ntlnued on I'aio Mnt. Column Tito
WIFE SEEKS DIVORCE,
. CHARGING CRUELTY
Wealthy Swart;hmore W'oman
Says Husband Attacked and
Abused Her
MnillA, I'.i , Nov. 21. Tho divorce ac
tion brought by Mario I). Hopley, a wealthy
woman of Sw-artliniore, against her hus
band, William A. Hopley, of Bradford, was
placed on trial before a jury In court here
today. Mrs. Hopley naks an absolute di
vorce on tho ground of Indignities nnd cruel
and barbarous treatment.
In her testimony she told of the numer
ous Instances of III treatment, 'abuso nnd
Indignities. She told of a time when In a
rage he broke a china closet, J600 worth
of china and cut glass, and ot another
time vvhen he cut up $1000 worth of
dresses which she had purchased for the
winter. Kho said that ho frequently stayed
out all night, came home drunk or stayed
away for days at a time. Kho said that In
1311 he threw a glass dish at her und
when It missed her he tried to throw her
over the railing ot the porch
She told of a time when he struck her in
the presence of Charles Gash, of Bradford,
nnd was knocked down by Gusli, and of an
other time when she called a policeman
and he attempted to throw the policeman
from the house and was knocked down and
sat upon by him.
She said that she married Hopley when he
was a reporter on the Bradford Dally Rec
ord, and that It was not until 1902, when
her mother died, that she became heiress to
property which gives her an income of (800
a month.
After she became wealthy she employed
Hopley at JG0 a month to manage her es
tate She declared that he became abusive
shortly afterward, and In 1305 she made an
unsuccessful attempt to get a divorce.
After this first action her husband promised
to do better and they went back to living
together.
She said that shortly afterward Ire began
the same sort of treatment and this cul
minated in her leaving him In 191'.'. she
went to the seashore, then to Germany and
Kngland and returned to this country In
19M, when she settled In Swarthmore,
where her two sons are now being edu
cated. While no evidence. has been Introduced
by the defense as yet, It has been Indicated
that It will be that she is tired of u, hus
band without money and further that she
Is not a bonaflde resident of this country,
but that having failed to obtain a divorce
In McKean County she came to Delaware
County, where It would be harder for her
husband to defend a suit.
It Is also a contention of the dafense, as
shown by the questions of the attorneys In
cross-examination, that much of their
trouble was due to her constant absence
from home at night. Joslah Smith, of this
county, and Evan J. Jones, of Bradford,
represent Mrs. Hopley, and John J. Broom
all, of Media, and Thomas "Wilson, of
McKean county, represent her husband
QUICK'
DEUTSCHLAND MAKES SECOND START FOR HOME PORT
NEW LONDON, Conu.. Nov. 2t. Tho aeinian undersea freighter
Deutscblrtntl made her second stnrt for her homo port of Bremen
this nfternoon escorted by two tugs which wero to nccompnny htv to
the tlireo-inllc limit nt the end of the sound.
PKIf ES OF STEEL PLATES. BARS AND SHAPES ADVANCE
rtX'XSDURfiH. Nov. 21. I'tlces foY steel pTdtou hnvo bT.i
inftikd up fji.'i n ten. Steel lmis nml shapes have been adv.mec:l !,!'
n ton,
MALLORY LINER IN DISTRESS OFF GEORGIA COAST'
WASHINGTON, Nov. 21. The Military Huer Lnmpac.nu Is lu
distress off Brunswick, Qa,, on St! Simon's bur, and tho coast guard
cutter TampA Is molting to her assistance, vhclcss dUp.itchcs said
this afternoon.
PROPOSED ROUTE
I " : jfijsn 1
,X PHILA
O STA.
v J (0 -
e lftrmtRMOMV
v i
V p SliPFILBKI
wXJ PEMM.R.RjjraaykJUnWR
H-Wtoil)HM)HHHtti4WljyraBROAO .
mahKEt" OT lJj 6T.50B.
II CITY H-jALL
Tho Pennsylvania Railroad has about completed plans for a tube
entrance to Central Station, Icmliiu; down IJIdc avenue, down Thirteenth
street' then to Fifteenth and Market streets, where a now and ade
quate station will be erected. The unite will be underneath the
city's Broad street subway.
PRESIDENT INVITED TO TAKE AEROPLANE TRIP
WASHINGTON, Nov. 21.- President Will on toilttj, vvus Invited to tuUo u trip In
the nlr by O. 13. IllenKIc". Krpiiljllran IV.prosoiitatlve'lo''t from I'cnupylvtinlu, who
flow licie estiMInj from his homo in an iiciopliiiii'. HU-uklov pi-niuHed the Presi
dent ho wouldn't tulic liim nbovu thu tliiru-iuilo limit. It In umler.Qiioil uii unques
tioned authority tho 1 'resident will Unit It iimtlvlsnbjo to ticcepl tho invmituin.
MUMMERS .MAY REGISTER DECEMBER 1 FOR PARADE
Superintendent of Police .Iiiiuch Hnhliimm today fixed December I us the llrat
day of registration for iiiummi'rH who wish to par.ulo on New Year's Day. Tho
superintendent's olllco 1ms been mvumpeil with comuiunlciitlom anient; for Informa
tion ns to tho reglstiution date. Ho mild today that registration could hn iniidu any
day nftcr December 1, Inclusive Tim rnptiiin of each li.mil of mimuncrs iihiBt ret?.
liter In tho Buiieilntendent'u nlllco tlm numo and uildiess of thu oliih, iih well ns IiIh
own, nnd make himself pciuomilly rospouullilo fur thu mind behavior of his men.
ZINC ORE ADVANCES 55 A TON
JOl'l.l.V, llt., Nov. 21. Zinc ore Jumped another ?3 to $05 a tun, Capacity pro
duction is sold.
ROUGH SEA SAVES SHIPS FROM U-IJOAT
NKW YORIC, Nov. 21. OKlcem of the llritlsh steamship HInmeso Prince, which
arrived hero today from llrest, reported that Unco, tihellu had been llred nt tho
vessel eirly on the morning of November I when 200 miles west of the Island of
Quessant by a submarine. The uttuck was made without warnlim-. Tho steamship
stopped Immediately, boats vvcrq swum; nut und tho crew put on lifo preservers.
After vvaltlnh' a few minutes, with no sign of the attacking craft, the rilnmeso prince
steamed away at full speed. There was a iiiugh cea at tho time. The Siamese
Prince's officers believe UiIh was the reason the submarine could not ride the waves
to follow up its shelling.
HUGHES DENIES MESSAGE TO WILSON PENNED
i,AKi:WOOD, N. J., Nov. 21. Denlul was muda today on behalf of Charles
Hvans Hughes by Ills secretary that tho defeated caudlduto had prepared a. tele
gram of congratulation to President Wilson and that it had been neld up, No
telegram has been prepared yet, t was stated.
McADOO DENIES INTENTION TO QUIT WILSON'S CABINET
SANTA HARHARA, Cal., Nov. 21. William G JlcAdoo. Secretary of the Treas
ury, who Is In Santa Barbara today with Mrs. JlcAdoo on a motor trip, dented that
he Intended to resign from President Wilson's Cabinet, Tho denial followed reports
from the East that 3tr, JlcAdoo would resign, Ha dlsmUfeed the report that he
was to resign with a laugh and declared that there was no foundation for the
story.
STRANDED SIBIRIA'S PASSENGERS SAVED IN STORM
LONDON, Nov. 2l.--After being Imperiled tvvonty-fouij hours by storm-tossed
seas, fifty-three men and women passengers und erew of the stranded American
steamship Slblria were landed at Deal today. The rescije were made by Ufesavers
of the Klngsdown station In seas that threatened every moment tj swamp the life
boats. The Siblrla is stilt fust aground on Godwin Sands. .
PITTSBURGH MAN OUT FOR HOUSE CLERKSHIP
WASHINGTON, Nov. 21. Bdmund B. Brk, of Pittsburgh, has unnuunced him
self as a candidate for clerk of the Houss of Representatives, proceeding on the as
sumption that the Republicans will organize the House In the next Congress. Krk
has. been a lifelong resident of Pittsburgh and for twenty-Ave years was associated
with newspapers of that city.
by George Allan
NEWS
OF P. R. R. SUBWAY
England, Which ApQegrgjgPL P a 13
13TH ST. TUBE .
PLAN OF P.R.R.
TO ENTER CITY
$10,000,000 Subway New
Scheme to Eliminate
Detours
BIG CENTRAL STATION
AT 15TH AND MARKET
Change Avoids Sharp Turn
at Broad and Lessens
Cost
CITY WILL CO-OPERATE
How P. It. R. 13th Street
Subway Affects City
1 Plans nbout completed by
Pcnnsylvnnin Rnllroad for
passenRor train subwny branching
from New York division down Ridge
nvcnuo to Thirteenth street, south to
Filbert street, thonco to proposed
central stutlon nt Fifteenth nnd
Market streets.
2Propo.ini to run subway
down Thirteenth street be
came known when It wns learned
that the railroad had abandoned plan
to co-operate with city in building
section of tho Broad street subway
between Ridge nvcnuo and Filbert
street.
3 Project, which will coHt close
to SIO.000,000, to bo part of
the bij central station improvements
planned by Pcnnsylvnnin Railroad.
4 Subway will brine New York
and western express trains
directly into central station instead
of having them make tho wide de
tours by way of the West Philadel
phia Station.
The Pennsylvania Ttallroad Company has
pinna and engineering designs virtually
completed for the construction of a Thir
teenth street tvvo-trnck passenger train sub
way to bring express trains from the Ne,vr
York Division tracks down ilidso avenue,
and Thirteenth street directly Into the .pro
poned big central stutlon nt Fifteenth and.
Market streets. '
The routo of the subway as designed Be
came known toda'y when It was learned
that the lallroad company had abandoned
Its plan, made public two year a ago, of co
npemtlng with the city In building that see
tion Of the Ilroad street subway between
Itldgo svchtio and Filbert street. Tho pro
grain then wnsg to locate the proposed pas
senger train subway directly beneath the
city's Ilroad street tube, thus lessening the
construction cost for both city nnd com
pany Tho proposal of tho railroad to construct
.i train subway is ono fenturo of Its com
Piehenilvo program ot development lit the
central part of the city which, when car
ried to completion, will mean the demolition
of tho present Ilroad Street Station', the
construction ot a new and more modern
central station nt Fifteenth and Market
streets, facing the Parkway, and the
changing of the grndo of the tracks leading
out of the now station from elevated ta
subway.
The entire plan of Improvements will''
coBt many millions of dollars, nnd It Is
estimated that the train .subway nlonr ns
planned will cost close to J 10,000,000. Just
when the work will begin Is problematical
because ot the Increasing evidence of a
bitter contest between labor and capital
In the near future.
Tho abandonment of tho Ilroad street
routo for the tube by the Pennsylvania
Is said to have been caused by the two-
following factors! ;
b'lrbt, the railroad company wpuld
have had to decide definitely the de.
sign and details of Its subway before
Director William S. Twining, of the
Department of City Transit, advertised
for bids for the North Uroad street
tube, Aa Director Twining intends to
ask for bids for this section of the tube
early next year the railroad would have
been compelled to complete Its plans
and decide its policy by that time. This
the company was unwilling or unable
to do,
Second, It Is said that from an engi
neering standpoint, the curve neci'jsary
to carry trains from Ilroad street to the
Pennsylvania station would have been
too sharp for either speed or conven
ience, and tor that reason Thirteenth
street waa thought a better place for
the railroad's subway, since being lo
cated at a greater distance from the
station the curve would not be 80
wharp.
IMPROVED PLAN3
Some years ago, when a similar project
was planned by the railroad ofllclals, a sub
way was proposed branching from tho New .
York division tracks just east of the North " ,
Philadelphia station and running down ,
Uroud street for the entire distance. The
present nidge avenue-Thirteenth ttreet,
route, however, is considerably shorter and,
therefore, cheaper, and also to connect a.
subway with the tracks at Thirteenth street
near the North Philadelphia station would '
have been difficult as the present tracks at
the latter point are elevated, while at Itldg
and Sedgley avenues, t the site of the now
abandoned litdge uvenue station, there lj
already a dip, affording a natural cut to a
'Subway. 4
x The route pf the trains after leaving h '
New York division tracks M Twnfy-igb.q
street and Ridge avenue would b down
Ridge avenue, under the 'city's Broad strtti
subway at Ridge avenue and Rroad str,
to Thirteenth, street, down Thirteenth strf t
I 'K i "I MILi,-
CsaUttaei n ! Nins, P$1W Qm
I
- s
r
r
