* . * V
I
Fair tonight probably tomorrow; k ^ ^9^|f From PtBSS to HoTTie
colder tonight, temperature B ^ M A yA & . / ^ Y( W
isSjfe mhje jotntttii mc
? ? f y I ^ y <wor? Net Circulation. Moath off October.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 18. ^ 1?1?, Dally Average, TWM?j Snaday. 6M71.
No. 29,509. WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1916?TWENJY-TWO PAGES. ^ ONE GENtT
SEVEN MORE MS
SEIZED Bf SERBIANS
INSTEADY ADVANCE
Berlin Admits Continued Progress
for Allies Above
Monastir.
NEW LINE 17 MILES
TO THE NORTH OF CITY I
Fresh German Forces Being Em-!
ployed to Check Enemy?Engagements
on Struma Plain.
I'.r the Associated Press.
PARIS, November 21.?Troops of the
allies are pressing the Oermano-Bulgarian
rear guard detachments to the
north of Monastir, according to the
official announcement on the progress
of hostilities in the orient given out
by the French war office this afternoon.
The new line is indicated by press
dispatches to lie about seventeen miles
northward of Monastir and is reported j
to be strongly intrenched and defend- |
ed in part by fresh German forces. J
The dispatch, which was filed at j
Saloniki yesterday, says the Serbians |
have captured the villages of Makovo. i
irahovo. Vranovtsi. Ribartsi, Bilyanik, ;
Novak and Suhodol, all in the sector j
east and northeast of Monastir. In ad- j
dition to many prisoners, the Serbians i
are said to have taken three field guns, i
a considerable number of machine
guns and a great quantity of other war !
materials.
Italian forces have repulsed a counter
attack to the west of Monastir. French j
iroops nave occupied xne village or i
Kroni. west of Monastir on Lake Presba.
Berlin Admits Enemy Advance.
Attempts of Serbian troops to advance
in the Moglenica region of the ;
Macedonian front yesterday were de-;
feated, it is announced officially in Berlin.
In the Monastir district the en-! I
tente troops are still advancing. Berlin j 1
admits. On the inundated Struma plain
there have been engagements between j
reconnoitering detachments.
Tells of Monastir's Pall.
The allied troops entered Monastir on !
the heels of the retreating Bulgarians. |
according to a description of the fall i
of the city telegraphed the Petit Jour- j
nal by its correspondent on the Serbian j
front. The dispatch, which is dated ;
Sunday, says:
The last Bulgarian patrol of seven- I
teen troopers left the city at 9:3u a.m., ;
just as the allies' advanced guard en- j
?ered. Women showered flowers on the
victorious troops as they marched
through the streets. The night before I
the enemy, after dertling thrice through !
the main street, pillaged all the stores, ,
and toward midnight set Are to the am- i
bulances, barracks, forage depots, and i
au Duuaings or a military nature.
"The retreat began about a.m. The
officials had evacuated the night be- ;
fore, and nearly Bulgarian fami- '
li^s left two days ago. The infantry
was not clear of the outskirts until 8 j
a.m. The enemy is being closely pressed
by our troops, but bad weather makes j
both pursuit and retreat difficult. i
"The enemy's new line, seventeen ,
miles to the north, was prepared two ;
months ago. and which passes approxi- j(
mately along the Topol* hani heights. !
ty the villages of Klepao. Kahartlachi
and hill l-lot; of the Visoko range. ;
During the last t vo days he has been
obliged to aband' 11 an enormous quantity
of material. We found, among
other things at Monastic a number oi
locomotives, which will be precious
to us."'
Sees Fall of Prilep.
NICE. France, November 21.?The old
Serbian field marshal. Radomir Putnik.
who was minister of war and chief of
the general staff and now is ill here,
expressed to the correspondent of the
Associated Press his joy over the win- j
ning oi .Tionastir.
"Now," said he. "Prilep must fall into
our hands. It is a strong natural posit
ion. lormidably fortified bv the (>rmans
and Bulgarians. But" I hope it 1
will soon b?* ours. The Germans now
mu.-t ertainly .- r?rl more troops to
Macedonia. b*?aus?- the B iigai ans
alone are unabb to support the shock
of the alii#.- Tin s#- ? r- op.- probaoi,
w ill have i?> b?- taken from Tim' Danube
front. 1 h?- Situation in Rumania must
... . .... - .... imuruvo.
Field Marshal I'utnik took part in the
,Sr*>bidri iet e.it into Albania. arid, not- i
v. ithst- tid 'ttr hi- broken heath, follows
rlosely a!l the details of the. earn- i
^ paikcri H?- lias telegraphed his con- j
gratulations to the crown prince.
FEARED 41 MEN ON LOST
SHIP HAVE PERISHED
HALIFAX. N. .S . November I'l. Word
was received from London last iiiftht
that the overdue Funo-as line steamer1
Kappahanno< k Lad beet, sunk by a
German submarine. No word has been1
heard of <*apt. Garrett and his crew of
fortv men ar.d th?* fear was expressed;
thai they had perished. The Rappahannock
sailed from this port for
Liverpool 1 ?< tofcr l 'j and for ten days:
has been posted as missing.
Th*- cable said that word of the
i{t*?amer'8 loss rvw.*- from Berlin.
Norwegian Vessel Sunk.
BONIX'N, November 21 A <"opon-l
hagen dispatch to the Kxchange Telegraph
Company says the government
has received a t?I'^ram that, the Norwegian
steamer Joachim Hrinch Bund
has been torpedoed. I'p to the present
there has been no report of the rescue
of the crew. Th?- steamer measured:
1.602 tons.
A lifeboat bearing the name "Joachim
Brinch Bund" containing the body of a '
seaman, has been found in Falmouth
bay.
NOT TO ATTEND CONSISTORY, j
Cardinal Mercier of Belgium Unwilling
to Risk Trip to Rome.
ROMK. November 21, via Paris, 9 3^
a.m.?Cardinal Alercier, primate of Bel- '
giutn, *ill not be present at the consistory
of December 4 for the investment
of cardinals, as he does not desire
to ask the permission of the German
authorities t?> make the' journey or to
rink the change of another demonstration
such as occurred on the occasion of his
visit to Rome last January. No foreign
cardinals will attend the consistory except
Cardinal Amette, Archbishop, of
Paris.
-#
LAST WORD OF U.S.
ON MEXICAN ISSUE
Commissioners Notified of
Conditions Under Which Expedition
Will Be Recalled.
APPROVED BY PRESIDENT
By the Associated Press.
ATLANTIC CITY. X. J., November 21.
?The American commissioners today
Eravc to Mio \fpvii>an I'nmniissintlPrS
what is understood to be the last opportunity
for an amicable settlement
of the problems that have arisen because
of Carranza's failure to provide
adequate protection for life and property
along the international border.
In joint session Secretary Lane of
the Interior Department, as chairman
of the American commission, informed
Mr. Carranza's representatives that the
American punitive expedition would be
withdrawn within a reasonable time
and under conditions that would not
impair the dignity of the American government
or leave unprotected the territory
just south of the border now patrolled
by the Americans. Incident to
such withdrawal he outlined the manner
in which the American government
was prepared to guard the long line of
frontier and to run down and punish
any marauding band that attempted a
crossing into the United States. He
made it clear to the Mexicans that this
government would not tolerate any restriction
on the pursuit of bandits by
American troops.
Only One Section Presented.
vnij a part ui in?? new pian was presented
at the forenoon session, but it
was intended to offer, perhaps this afternoon,
the second part, and not only
the section pertaining to border control,
but the provision for a definition
of the attitude of the Carranza government
toward economic, social and
military affairs in general in so far as
they affect foreign interests in Mexico.
It had not been intended to present at
this time other than the part relating to
the withdrawal of the American troops
and the plan for protecting the border
against raiders. It was explained that the part
of the plan already proposed was
marked by no ambiguity whatever, and it
is not intended that there shall be in the
remaining articles any obscurity of meaning
that might serve as a basis for quibbling
debate.
Opposed by Cabrera.
How Luis Cabrera, chairman of the
Mexican commission, and his colleagues
received what is regarded as the last
word of the American commissioners
was not expected to be known until
after the session came to an end this
afternoon. Steady opposition to the
plan by Mr. <*abrera and continued insistence
that further activities of American
troops in Mexico must be restrict- ,
ed in various ways have marked the !
conferences of the joint commission ,
for many weeks, and it was the appar- '
ent determination of the Mexicans not \
to yield that caused Mr. Lane to place
before President Wilson all the facts j
in the case.
When he went into the conference j
room this morning he carried with
him the assurance of the President that i
he had unqualified backing of his plan.
The Mexicans were aware of the President's
attitude and it was regarded as
probable that they would recede from
the position they had taken.
Secretary Lane returned here late
yesterday. He immediately went into
conference with Dr. J. E. Mott and
Judge George Gray, the other American
commissioners, informing them
in detail of the conference he had at
Washington Saturday with the President.
The Americans appeared confident
that the end of the conference
is in sight. Their propositions have
been reduced to writing, and it is understood.
will admit of little debate.
Hopeful of Adjustment.
The Mexicans appeared not to take a
pessimistic view of the situation, Mr.
Cabrera again assuring newspaper men
that lie was very hopeful of an
amicable adjustment.
Whether Ignacio Honillas and Alberto
J. Pani, the other members of the
Mexican commission, were prepared to
stand by Mr. Cabrera could not be determined.
They have been disposed of
late to agree with the Americans on
the plan suggested and it was the
opposition of Mr. Cabrera that prevented
a settlement.
The question at issue is not the withdrawal
of Gen. Pershing's troops. The
more debatable question is the method of
ontrolling the border after they have
been taken out. The Mexicans will not
be permitted to place restrictions on the
manner in which the American govern
merit may protect its border nor on the
manner in which it may punish marauding
bandits.
Propose Restriction of Troops.
The Mexicans have objected seriously
to acknowledging the rigiit of the Cnited
States to send troops across the international
boundary line in pursuit of bandits.
but have been more insistent that
in case troops are sent they be moved
subject to 'frta:*? restrictions.
It regarded riere as not improbable
that a delav might be caused by the desire
of t ne Mexicans to communicate further
with <ien t'arranza. If time is taken
for the Mexicans to rejiort the new situation
to their chief and for him to reply it
is possible nothing may be done until
Saturday.
CANADA AGAINST A TEUCE.
Determined to Wage the War to a
Conclusive Peace.
NKW YORK. November 21.?Canada's
determination to wage war to a triumphant
issue without truce or inconclusive
peace was emphasized by Sir
Robert !.. Borden, premier of Canada,
in a speech at a dinner of the Canadian
Club of New York in this city last
night.
Outlining the cause for which Canadians
had thrown themselves into the
struggle as one of humanity and civiiiratlon.
the nrernier said he hn.i i.??>.
commissioned to bring this message to
Canadians in New York:
"We are as resolute and determined
to maintain that cause to the end as
we were on the day of August 4, 1914."
Prolonged cheering greeted the announcement.
Conservation of Paper
Kvery citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund.
Call Main 603K and ask for the
nearest public school to your home
and the old papers will be sent for.
FIGHT FOR 8-HOUR
DAY IF NECESSARY,
W. G. LEE ASSERTS
Tells Federation Convention
Peaceable Means Will Be
Used First, However.
! AFFILIATION ADVOCATED
BY BROTHERHOOD HEADS
Chiefs of Railway Unions Appear
Before Baltimore Gathering After
Seeing President.
j By the Atisorintetl Pro... .
| BALTIMORE. November 21.?Afflliation
of the members of the American
Federation of Labor and the four big
railroad brotherhoods foe effecting the i
general betterment of labor was urged
today before the federation convention |
here by the brotherhood heads and I
President Samuel A. Gompers. Dele-|
gates, who crowded the hall, cheered all ;
i of the speakers enthusiastically,
j "We must hang together or we will
j hang separately." declared W. G. Lee. i
! spokesman for the brotherhoods and
i head of the railway trainmen.
"It is a great comfort to know," j
President Gompers said, "that the time
is not far distant when the great
brotherhoods will be a part of the
American rearrauuu ui
Lee explained that the laws of the ;
brotherhoods now prevent an official,
affiliation with the federation until'
after their convention is held, but he
[ insisted that between now and that
i time the organizations could co-operate
, with the same purpose as if they were
i officially affiliated. He also made it
. plain that the brotherhoods were not
i bringing their eight-hour day "trou|
bles" to the federation for support.
Will Fight if Necessary.
i "I am about anarchist enough, however."
he said, "to say that we are
going to work for the eight-hour day
I for all classes. If we can't get it
i peaceably, we will fight for it."
I Lee said that some sort of affiliation
i should be effected to fight any proposed
| arbitration legislation which might
I be unfair to labor. President Wilson
j plans such legislation. Lee said, and
; it should be carefully watched. He de;
clared that Congress had no right to
1 pass any law compelling a man to
[ work, provided he was not in prison.
| if he did not want to, and he did not
j think it would do so.
I Prolonged cheering followed praise i
' of President Wilson by Lee.
"It took .more courage for him to
write across the front pages of news- |
papers of this country that he was
for an eight-hour work day than it
| would have taken for hini to have
! written that this country was at war
I with Mexico," he said.
I "Our principal object now is to help :
i the President and the men in both
i branches of Congress to make good j
I their promises to us. I believe they '
; will do it."
"Are Nearer Affiliation."
Failure of the brotherhoods and the \
federation to affiliate before now has !
not been wholly the fault of either
side, he said. He declared that invita1
tions had come To the brotherhoods bei
fore to appear before the federation meet!
ings. but they had not been accepted.
"We are nearer affiliation today than
we ever have been before," he said.
"I know that a large percentage of j
! our members will be glad to know that j
I we have been .here and spoken to you !
j today. It is absolutely necessary for j
| us who are organized to get together, j
j and I say that we shall go the limit ,
' to obtain better conditions, purlieu- I
j larly for the men on lines that the ;
' railroads will not now permit to or|
ganize. We will not strike or go out I
! to help them, but we will use our best !
i efforts to obtain better conditions for !
! them."
Lee paid his respects to the "Wall
j street crowd" and declared that, now j
| that an election had been won with
diana or Illinois, labor should not fail
; to retain its power thus pained.
Lee also reviewed the conferences which
i led to the enactment of the A damson
' eight-hour day* law last September and
i charged the railroad heads with playing
' unfairly with the President at that time.
The brotherhoods, he declared, had no i
! desire that the /-.damson bill be enacted
into law. but inasmuch as it had, become
I a law, they were trying to live up to it.
Expect Union First of Year.
Immediately after the - lose of (Jom- i
i pers' speech the brotherhood heads left
j the hall.
j President fJornpers, in the course of his
remarks, said:
; "-W'j expect that the railroad brother- :
' hoods will January 1 next inaugurate the
eight-hour workday, and I think I can j
' truly say to you that whatever arises.
whatever betides, you have the undivided
i support of the organized working men
i and women as represented by the Ameri- !
can Federation of Labor.
"When the money power of the Pnited
States failed in the attempt to corrupt :
the electorate and when their plans were
upset by the votes of the citizenship of the
Pnited States the capitalists showed
their colors. They met and gave out a
i declaration that they were going to anl
tagonize every effort put forth by organ1
ized labor.
"But. men of wealth, I say to you. be j
i careful how far you go. There is a limit
! even t<? human endurance. You throw
("I OWlt ine gamiuei ami we accept ine<
. challenge. When the time comes it will
he another case of May on. Macduff, and
damned he he who first cries enough.* "
At the conclusion of his address
! President Oompers was overcome by
! his emotions and was obliged to retire
to an anteroom, where he lay down for
fifteen minutes. He afterward returned
| to the platform.
Organization of Actors.
| The convention authorized the execu-l
I tive council to act with the White Hats
I ActorH* Union of America, afliliated with
I the federation, in an effort to bringj
about an organization of all classes of
actors.
This action was taken as a substitute !
for a resolution that the White Hats* j
charter he withdrawn, and that the p. es-I
ident of the federation be instructed to I
call a convention on or before January j
1, 1917, for an international union of
actors covering all branches of the
profession.
The White Hats' Union, which hlods
exclusive charter rights from the federation.
is composed almost exclusiveJy
of vaudeville performers. The resolution,
wbiofc vii rejected, was introi
p?j?><.
_>63?L_^
"5=?"^
duced in the interest of several un- |
affiliated actors' organizations. J
Danger From Public Press.
Speaking today before the convention
here of the American Federation
of Labor, W. S. Carter, president of
the Brotherhood of Railway Firemen
and Enginemen, declared that the
danger that confronts all working
people today is "the coercion or subornation
of the public press by the
master class."
"The coming of the penny paper,"
he added, "has done more than anything
else to place the press under
the domination of advertisers. Unfortunately
labor has but little to do with
advertising: practically all the advertisements
come from the master class."
Mr. Carter declared that when the i
railroad brotherhoods began th?=- eighthour
movement a year ago "a few men !
in New York city who direct the affairs
of all the railroads" undertook one of
the greatest publicity campaigns the
world ever has witnessed.
"I have positive evidence from one of
the leading advertising agencies," Mr.
Carter s-id. "that provision was made
to advertise in 3,000 daily and 14,000
w-'klv paoers. Think of it?many i
millions of dollars' worth of advertis- j
e ud'ce. the public against the |
brotherhoods."
On arriving here from Washington]
this morning the chiefs of the four j
riilroad brotherhoods, who conferred j
yesterday with President Wilson, went
immediately to the federation convention
hall.
PROMISE OF COAL SUPPLY
HALTS CONTRACT AWARD
District Government Assured of 100 !
Tons Daily for Week and In- j
creased Delivery Thereafter.
Assurance given District officials to- j
day that, beginning tomorrow, 100 tons
of coal will be delivered daily for j
seven days, and after that 120 tons!
daily, resulted in the Commissioners
deciding not to accept bids for the
furnishing of 1,000 tons of coal, which
were opened at the Municipal building
yesterday afternoon. Two bids, for
$S and $9.50 a ton, were received, but
one of them came in after 2 o'clock, the
time, set for the opening of the proposals.
The municipal government is now using I
about 100 tons daily, and the assurance I
that this amount would be supplied for the j
next seven days was given by the bonding
company representing tiie present con-j 1
tractors. Ji
Fifteen school buildings this morning i,
made application for coal. Marion Har- j
grove, purchasing officer, immediately got 14
in touch with other schools which are
more plentifully supplied, and made ar- j ,
range merits for transfers, which will meet
the various shortages by night.
SHIP OFF FRENCH COAST
FIRED ON WITHOUT NOTICE '
I
NKW YORK, November 21.?The Brit- 1
ish steamship Siamese Prince, returning
in ballast after delivering a cargo of J
horses at Brest for the French gov- i
eminent, was tired upon without warn- '
ing, presumably by a German subma- '
rine, off the French coast November 4.
according to officers of the vessel, which
arrived here today.
Three shots were fired, the officers
said, two in quick succession, which
passed over the port quarter, and a
third soon after, which dropped into
the water astern. The lifeboats were
swuner out, the crew of forty-two and
the fifty-four hostlers donned life preservers
and the ship put on full speed.
The craft which attacked was not
sighted at any time, owing partly to
weather conditions, and the officers of
the Siamese Prince were unable to say
whether their vessel was pursued. The
! hostlers included a great many Ameri!
cans, it was stated.
The attack took place at 7 a.m., 200 :
miles at sea, while a heavy sea was
running. No attempt was rrtade to
torpedo the ship, which is owned by
Furness. Withy & Co., and which car- 1
ried no passengers. The officers of the j
vessel Judged that the attacking boat
was about a mile distant. '
% '
i
-2 A,
i
WILL IT COME TO THIS:
nor nr nm/ nm uiixf
U5L Ur HIT KAILWAT
LINES NOWJS SOUGHT
Old Dominion Protective Association
Seelci Direct Transportation to
Business Section.
Direct transportation service over the
lines of the Washington and Old Dominion
Railway Company to the business
section of Washington is sought
by the newly organized Old Dominion
Protective Association, which today
filed a petition in the matter with the
District public utilities commission.
The association wants the utilities
board, upon the completion of the new
Aqueduct bridge, to issue an order compelling
the Capital Traction and Washington
Railway and Electric companies
to grant use of their tracks to the
Washington and Old Dominion line in
order that this direct service may be
established. The petition was filed by
Attorney E. Hilton Jackson.
20,000 Persons Concerned.
It recites that the matter is of great
moment to approximately 20,000 persons,
who, it is estimated, Would use
the new bridge daily. It also ?states
that early action is of the utmost importance
for the reason that large expenditures
of money are contemplated
by the Washington and Old Dominion
Railway Company and interested individuals
upon the assumption that the
north end of the bridge is to be the
city terminal of the Washington and
Old Dominion Railway Company and
any other railways permitted by law
to use the bridge.
The petition ends with the prayer
that the two local street railway lines
be required to appear and show cause
why the joint trackage arrangement
should not be entered into.
ENORMOUS LOAN CONSIDERED.
Reconstructive Work Among Jews
of Eastern Europe Planned.
An effort is being made by American
lewish leaders to induce Signor Luigi j
Luzatti. the Italian minister of finance, !
Lo come to the United States and aid in
organizing the recently announced
campaign for raising an enormous loan
for reconstructive work among Jews
in eastern Europe and Palestine after
the war. The invitation has been forwarded
to the finance minister through
State Department channels.
Signor Luzatti, himself a Jew, organized
the Banco Popolaire of Milan,
i highly successful co-operative concern
which has been suggested as a
model for an organization to raise the
loan fund. Jacob de Haas, editor of the
Jewish Advocate and a member of the i
Massachusetts Credit Union, which has ,
taken a prominent part in the plans j
for the loan, says he has reason to be- j
lieve the invitation to Signor Uuzatti
to come to America would be accepted.
FARMERS' UNION UNBIASED, j
Will Not Be Swayed by Politicians, <
President Barrett Says.
PAUATKA. Fla., November 21.?"The
Farmers' Union will stand by its friends
wherever it finds them/' declared Presi
[lent Charles S. Barrett, addressing the
annual convention of the national farmers'
organization which opened here today.
"The union has never been in partisan
politics and will not- be," continued Mr.
Barrett. "Yet right here you may take
It from me that no amount of partisan
lashing shall drive the union from the
support of its friends nor force it to
sustain its political enemies. Knowing
Itself, its powers and limitations, the
union is determined to control itself
This simply means that the union Is not
going to take Its orders and direction!
frqm the outside. It megns that the
union "Is sane, self-sustaining and self*
Th'*
> x <HT*^- \ U^N>^
>\x?5Sj*s
ot~t>
> *
I sufficing. It will fearlessly and steadfastly
exercise its power for the betterment
of the union, the producers of life's
necessities and the uplift of the human
race."
TRANSFER ISSUE PRESSED
BY FEDERATED CITIZENS
| Communication Asks Utilities Comj
mission for Information as to
Its Plans.
I Another communication relative to
the universal transfer acitation was
filed with the public utilities commission
today by the Federation of Citizens*
Associations.
! It asks whether it is the intention of
the commission to take up this ques!
tion at the conclusion of the valuation
j hearings now being conducted or to
' await until the valuations have been
' finally adjudicated by the courts.
' According to officials of the commisj
sion. the communication, together with
the petition of the federation for the
! immediate ordering of universal trans1
fers probably will be considered at a
I meeting of the commission to be held
I tomorrow. The communication received
today was filed by William McK.
Clayton, chairman of the utilities committee
of the federation.
PASSENGERS ARE LANDED
FROM STRANDED STEAMER
i
DOVER, England, November 21, 10:45
a.m.?Fifty-three passengers and crew
UI llic rtinci nan oi'rtinri oiuilld,
stranded on the Goodwin Sands, were
landed at Deal today by the Kingsdown
lifeboat.
The rescued persons from the Sibiria,
I whicn stranded in yesterday's gale, had
j a distressing experience during the
twenty-four hours they were on the
steamer awaiting assistance, in momentary
peril of the steamer being engulfed
in the treacherous quicksands.
Fruitless efforts were made yesterday
by lifeboats from neighboring stations
to rescue the passengers. Several men
I of the liteboat crews were injured and
the boats narrowly escaped destruction,
i The Sibiria still is aground.
FINDS INSPIRATION IN WAR.
| India's New Viceroy Says Country Is
Stirred for Progress.
(Copyright, lftlfi, by the Associated Press.) ;
1'roni 11 Staff Correspondent of the Associated |
Press.
J SIMLA,Tndia. October 13.?India's new
| viceroy. Lord Chelmsford, today told aj
correspondent of the Associated I'ress I
i during; a formal interview that the war. I
by giving this country an opportunity j
to show its practical importance to the !
empire, had stirred Indian aspirations'
for development, politically and eco- I
nomically, and declared that it would j
he his endeavor to secure a practical '
response to this new desire for prog- !
ress. j
His excellency spoke most warmly of
the loyalty of India, of the alacrity and !
line spirit with which princes and peo- i
pie had identified themselves with the
cause of the empire, and of his own
great interest in India's problems.
PBESIDENT MEETS CABINET.
Saturday Half Holiday and Inauguration
Plans Not Discussed.
today's cabinet meeting at the White
House, the second since the return of
President Wilson from Shadow Lawn,
did not discuss either the subject of a
half holiday on Saturdays all the year
round or the inauguration. Neither did
the President take up with his cabinet
officers a recent complaint to him by
the National Woman's Suffrage Association
that department officials discriminate
against women in making
appointments to the government service.
\
'PISH WILL NOT
SUGGEST EMBARGO
Movement to Halt Food Exports
Regarded Sure to Provoke
Fight in Congress.
TO DISCUSS LIVING COST
President Wilson's annual address to
Congress, now nearing completion, and
upon which he has been at work at in
tervais ror a week, will contain no
recommendation for an embargo on
food products that are now so scarce
in this country?principally wheat,
flour, beans, peas, corn, etc.
That the President will take cognizance
of the high cost of living in the
address or in future recommendations
to Congress is believed to be certain,
in view of the realization on his
part that the people of the country
are becoming more and more worked
up over the problem of how to make
ends meet.
He did so recently in an address to
the National Grange in this city, urging
greater production and declaring
the middleman responsible to a large
degree for the situation that now confronts
practically every household in
the country.
Expected to Take Action.
That the President must deal with
attempted legislation to piaee an em- i
bargo on food products before the com- \
ing short session of Congress ends is 1
generally recognized among democratic |
leaders. Petitions urging an embargo |
for the benefit of consumers have !
reached the White House and are ex- |
pected to pour in there in large numbers
durir\g the next few months.
Mayor Curley of Boston is among
those heading a definite movement for
an embargo, and his views upon the
subject have reached the White House.
Democratic congressional leaders who
have arrived in Washington admit that
there is plenty of evidence that a hot
fight will be made in the House, if not
in the Senate, to stop the sending
j abroad of food products, when many
of these products are already far be|
low the quantity necessary to maintain
i the people of this country and the shipI
rnent of every ton adds more to the
cost in the United States. At the same
time the leaders do not believe the
fight will be successful.
Say Farmers Will Oppose.
Plainly clear, it is said, is the fact
that the farmers, now the beneficiaries
of high and profitable prices, will oppose
to the last ditch any legislation
mai w ui picvciii mciii itvui ^.njvj ...p, i
some of the prosperity coming to the i
country because of war demands
abroad. The majority of representatives
in the House are from agricultural
districts, or districts in which
the farmer is a mighty factor in primaries
and elections. The farmer, too,
is organised and pjrepared immediately
to make his force felt in Congress,
while the eonsurrters lack such organizdtreft
ari<fTifte riot likely to give Vent
to their feelings; except tinder intense
pressure and a leadership that does not
appear in sight.
The city representative, whose constituents
produce nothing that they eat,
but are daily grumbling over what they
are having to pay. will be pitted in
Congress against the forces from agricultural
regions. The fervor of his advocacy
of embargo will be reckoned
by the intensity of feeling on the part
of his constituents.
Lacks Support in Senate.
In the Senate the problem will have
less support than in the House, according
to leaders today. Senators are
virtually all dependent to a degree
upon the farmer vote. They need not
give the vital attention to the city ,
vote that the representatives from city
districts must give. In states where
there are immensely large cities the
senator would be compelled to listen
closely to the demands upon him. Many
of them would have a most delicate
question to decide on the subject of an
pinha varo
Southern congressmen who have
reached Washington have been informed
that some of their fellow-members
are preparing: embargo bills, but the
word has been passed that embargo
legislation might hit southern cotton
before it finally sot through Congress
and that is dousing cold water on those
disposed to press for a law that will
keep American food products at home.
The southern farmer raises little
grain for his own consumption. He
buys his wheat and flour, beans, peas,
and even corn, from the western farmer?not
direct, of course. He is receiving
splendid prices for his cotton, but
he is complaining bitterly about what
he pays for his food.
Supported in the South.
The consequence is that a large number
of southern congressmen are disposed to
listen to his complaints and support embargo
proposition. They are reminded,
though, that when they attempt this the
New England congressmen, listening carefully
to toe kicks of the cotton mill interests
there, will propose that cotton
also be stopi>ed from export, while the j
crop is so short as to run prices to an j
unknown figure, in peace times; that the 1
consumer of cotton goods will want lower j
prices on what he buys the same as on j
the foods he must have in his home. ' ;
Tnereiore. tne on in nas descended over
the southern legislator.
The city congressmen are going to
have material support from the German-Americans.
that being another element
long favorable to stopping exports
of all kinds that assist the '
enemies of the fatherland to subsist
while the war goes on. The GermanAmerican
influences understand fully
that agitation to stop food exports will
be far stronger than the agitation in
the last session of Congress for a law
to stop exports of munitions of war.
Probable Line-Up.
Kepresentati ves from districts containing
a large German-American vote
! will line up with the city representa'
tives. it is indicated.
The fight for an embargo may not
reach the point mai ('resident Wilson
must make known his attitude, espe-I
cially if it appears, as it does now. that
advocates of such law will be in a mi- I
nority in Congress and unable to get
anywhere with their proposals, but the
discussion in and out of Congress maybring
from the President suggestions
intended to alleviate the high cost of
living, thereby placing him in the
arena on phases of the general question.
t r
Seven-Hour Day for Prison Workers, c
SING SING. N. Y.? November 21.?The
working day of the inmate in Sing Sing
prison is now officially but seven hours
instead of eight as in years past. it
begins at 8 o'clock and ends at 3. War- t
den Derrick expressed the belief that is j
much work would be done as in the
longer day, because formerly the prisoners
were given time off in which to ?
do their washing and cook extra dishes t
sent by friends. In granting the shorter i
day the warden stipulated that no per- f
sonal chores be done on prison time. ^
* . ?
r
RUMANIAN ARMIES
INJIULVALLEYARE
IN GRAVE DANGER
Converging Attacks of AustroGerman
Forces Compel
Swift Retirement.
KING FERDINAND'S MEN
DRAW NEAR FILLIASH
Berlin Reports Movement Near
Craiova, Which Would Bar Retreat
Over Railway.
By the Associated Pros*.
LONDON. November 21.?By bold an#
rapid strokes the Teutonic invaders apparently
have conquered a large section
of northwestern Wallachia from
the Rumanians.
Petrograd's official bulletin today announces
a Rumanian retirement In this
part of the battle front to the region
of Filliash, forty miles northwest of
Craiova. Berlin claims advance to near
the latter point. Judging from the recent
reports of the operations this
means that converging attacks by
Austro-Gerruan forces moving southward
in the Jiul valley and eastward
along the railway from Orsova have
compelled the Rumanians to withdraw
from the Orsova region and execute a
rapid retreat in the Jiul valley. This
movement was made, it appears, to prevent
the retreat of their armies from
being cut off.
Safety Regarded. Doubtful.
Whether even the rapid retreat indicated
has been in time to save the Rumanian
armies in this region is rendered
doubtful by the German announcement
that Teutonic troops are now
before Sariova.
The railroad running through Craiova
to Bucharest, 120 miles away, affords the
only convenient line of retirement for
the Orsova and Jiul valley armies.
While the Rumanians have evidently
reached the junction point of the Jiul
valley road with the main line at Filliash.
the loss of Craiova would effectually
bar their way eastward except
across country.
Farther eastward in Wallaehia the arrival
of Russian troops seems to have
strengthened the Rumanian defense.
The Russians took the offensive north
of Campulung. according to Berlin, several
attacks being repulsed. The Rumanians
are resisting persistently in
the Alt valley, south of Rothenthurm
pass, but nevertheless were compelled
to yield important positions to Gen. von
Falkenhayn's troops.
Dobrudja Cities Shelled.
According- to the Berlin statement,
nothing important has occurred in the
Dobrudja. with the exception of artlllerv
engagements. Constanza and Tchernavoda
were shelled. German squadrons
bombarded a transportation establishment
near Bucharest.
M'CORMICK WILL PICK
INAUGURAL CHAIRMAN
President to Leave Details to Campaign
Manager?Hopes for Ball
Eevived.
That the President personally will
not make a selection of the inaugural
chairman, but proposes to leave that to
the chairman of the democratic national
committee, was information that
came from a responsible source close to
the President today.
As the legally organized and recognized
democracy of the District already
has formally gone on record in urging
upon the national committee and national
chairman that this honor be bestowed
upon Robert N. Harper, it is understood
that there will be 110 serious
* : V. J o onnnlnlmmit
OPPUMllUU VU *00 uF,,v,...w..v..v.
The attitude of President Wilson is said
to be that lie is so busy with grave affairs
of state and of national importance that
he cannot spare the time to consider Inaugural
details. He is taking it for
granted, it is explained, that Vance McCormick.
the national chairman, will
recommend a man qualified for the position.
and one who will be acceptable to
the people of Washington.
Encouragement Regarding Ball.
The general attitude of the President
regarding all inaugural details will be
the same, it is explained. This is taken
as. encouragement that, while personally
he desires the inaugural ceremonies
to be simple and with as little ostentation
as possible, he will not put a
ban on the wishes of the people of tho
capital.
While those who are interested in tho
prospects of an inaugural ball do not
find this an assurance that there will
be a ball they are hopeful that tho
President will not forbid it. and are
encouraged to believe that there will
be a revival of the time-honored custom.
at least to the extent of a reception
or promenade.
This attitude of the President encouages
local leaders to believe that
the appointment of the inaugural
chairman and the plans for the inaugural
celebration will not be delayed
by the fact that the President is wresti:
.... v. .Jr? Q<./.iimnlafinn of ininortan*
I J II ft ? .V .. ??.. -- - - -
matters.
DEUTSCHLAND STARTS
ON HER RETURN TRIP
NEW LONDON, Conn., November 21.
?The Deutschland has started on her
eturn voyage.
The submarine left shortly after 2
>'clock this afternoon for Bremen.
Will Attend Gridiron Dinner.
President Wilson will attend the an*
iual dinner of the Gridiron Club, at the
S'ew Willard. December 9. He told a
ommlttee from the club today that he
Llways looked forward with pleasure to
he dinners of the club, and that if nothng
unforeseen should take place he would
surely be with the club members on the
>ccasion of the annual dinner.
?
