No Lapse in News
T.-D. Only Richmond Paper
With 7-Day A. P. Scrcice
fJiclpnonil ffitne ?> - P ten at c fj
' 3 J -TO DO TH^T
VnsaS SHOPPJMC
A /O VS."
,'<3.<23L^Z<i:J
ONLY
28
fAYl
66th YEAR
vom'jik ?in
M MIIKK Hid
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
JXWVV? ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
CITY WILL APPEAL
RAILWAY TAX CASE
Gross Discrepancy Between Val
ues Fixed by Commission and
by City Assessors.
POLLARD PREPARES PAPERS
City Attorney Follows Dissent
ing Opinion of Judge Wing
field as to Taxable Values.
<"ontendini; tl?nt tIs*- city of Rich
mond has Ifdi ? ? vit off from thousands
of dollars of revenue by (li?- erroneous
nssessnu tits for tin- year Hlltt of 11???
property of kIiuiii an<l ?? Itri?r rail
way companies, '"ity Attorney II. It
Pollard will appeal to ill" <"tty Circuit,
fourt from 11??- assessments made ami
Just announced by the Slut* Corpora
tion Commission. lias iflready pr< -
pared petitions against six steam
roads and two electric lines, and these
will be 0led in court as soon a: n<<"-s
sary data lias loon < <<n11? it? ? I bv ?'it>
Accountant ?'"ofer and City Ihigi neer
Boiling. I'Jxainmation by the ? of
the ?"Ity Attorn* v of the a:-v -ssuient s
inad<* by the Corporation Commission
(Oiow, by < omparison. a nross dis? ?? J?
ancy with the figures mud- b> tIs?? ? 11>
assessors.
Appeals Iroin the Corporation < "on ?
mission must, und-r th<- law. t?? tiled
within thirty days front the time th?
assessment hooks ai> r?-.eiv?-?l hy the
<"ity I'ounctl. Though the hooks v. ? i
dated and certified on (.e toher tli?->
were hot received hy the <*ouncil until
November It. wh<-n they wer< pre
sented t<> the Hoard of Abb-mien l>>
'"ity C"lerVc Hen *1' August. However, it
is the purpose of Mr. i'ollard to file
his appeals before Novemb-! .j, which
falls on Saturday, though lie is < . r
taiti that he has until lo.-emher 1 i to
do so. Hut to avoid this point being
raised, he will act without deia>
Mi \\ >i \KIN<; -t li \ i;t
OK It A 11.Itll A 11 l'lttll'i:itT\
Assistant '"itv Kngineer lianlcitis.
with a large corps of assistants, is
engaged in making a survey of t.iil
roud |>roperty, with the view of cho k
ing lb- figures of mileage as aliow-ed
by the < "orpvriitlon Commission. II.
f \ pects to have the timir-s ready for
the ?*ity Attorney to-day
? "itv Accountant ?'?.f?r i. t a l.ii la I tug
the assessment figures real estate:
owned by the railroads as mad* 1>>
t h. commission, mi comp.u is-n with
those mailt- hy the city assessors. II
saTd last night that it would probably
return- two ilay- more t<> ? omph-t* ih<
wor U.
"As an ? \aruple ? th< din n-|ia ni i-s
which ha\< been dis>..\<r-"l ? n the an*
.ses.sments of ail railroads owning
property in the city, that of th- ? "li-su
peake and tihiu Kailway Company is
as good as any other." said .Mr I'ollard.
"The Chesapeake and ii'mo valii-d all
<-f the real -state it owns mi Richmond,
ncluding Main Street Stali'ii. at srjl.
: 02 'i'h- State Corporation Commis
sion assessed this property at j5I.">.D77
The city assessors plat?d u value upon
this same property at $l.u*.!3.-M,> 1?if
f-reitces of the :-ajn?? proportion iiave
I ii discovered in tli- figures relating
to al! of tin steam and ele. trie i ".td?
opf ra t inp here."
ON 10 I.(IT WORTH MOIll". 'I'll \ N
It.. I ". A I'. It A 11.IK) \ II Mini It N s
Heal estate men yesterday afternoon
estimated the value of tin- lot on the
south side of liroad Street. extending
from Laurel to Shafer Streets, which
is owned hy the Richmond. h*i etlericks
liurg and I'otoinac Kailroad Company,
lo be between $a.*n and $?;m? per front
foot. With a frontage of between l.'.O
and iVm teet, this would bring the
value of this lot to between ll'oii.OOi)
and $300,000, or more than this rail
road returns for all of its real estate
in Richmond, outsid* of its active
roadbed.
The current assessment against this
property is sail to be much lower than
these figures. It was said last night
that the city assessors assessed the
leal estate of corporations only for the
information ot the city Council, and
that this was not a part of their of
ficial duties. I'lop-itv on the south
side of Broad Street, just west t\ this
lot, was assessed at about i.Mio per
front foot, while the assessments oil
real ate on the north side of itroad
Street in this same section were much
higher. Actual sales on West Itroad
Street have been at tig tires far in ex
cess of the assessed valuations.
,ii d<;k \\ i vtii'iioi.o iii.ssKvrs
FROM COMMISSION'S l-IMIINliN
The roads which will be affected by
the appeals, each of which will be in
the form of a separate case, include
the Atlantic Coast Line Kail road Com-',
pany: the Kichmond. Fredericksburg ,
and Potomac Railroad Company; the'
Southern Railway Company; the Sea- I
board Air Line Railway Conipnny: the :
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Com
pany; the Kichmond and Rappahannock
Kiver Kailway Company; the Virginia
Railway and Power Company, and the
Kichmond and Chesapeake Hay Hall
way Company.
Much force is lent the city's conten
? hy reason of the fact that the
Vicate of the Corporation Coinmis
llxing the assessments was not
^1 hy the three members of the
|.tV Judge .1. Richard Wingiield tlis
hci\ :? He has handed down a state
ment of his reasons for not signing
ih': certificate, which bore tlie signa
tures of the other two members, .linlge
t?. H. Prentis, cliainnan, .recently ro- i
.signed, and Judge William l<". Ithea.
In his statemetit Judge Wingtield
paves the way for localities through
out tho State to follow Richmond's
lead In appealing from the Corpora
tion Commission's assessments. in
part, ho says:
"The t si x law provides (hat every
railway company shall report annually
for taxation all of its real , ami
personal property of every description,
and the State Corporation Commission
shall ascertain the value of the prop
?
(Continued on Third Page.)
v- .
Increase in Food Cosl
Averages 30 Per Cent
I liy Ahhoi'IuUmI Pri'M. I
N|:\\ tllllK, .Novemlii-r 211 The
laborer who rtiriiN *1,- ti ??rrk, nml
nlni 1 iinl jrnr M|i?*ni S.I. Id of it for
food for lilniMi-ir nml fnuiil.i, muni
now 1111 > ?7.112 for I In- xiunr fimoillil
of fooil. iicenrilliiK lo >< rf|i??rl of
llic AmmocIii tloo for lui|iro vIiik llir
Coiiill tlou of llir I'oor, m it it ?? i> n l>l I ??
to-nIklii> A htmlj or (lie Im-rrtiHCM
In flic I'ohl of looil lo the poor of
HiIm I'ily m I ti i*i' \o\ember, 1111.%,
kIiiiuh mi mrriiKi' Itirrrimr of :t(i
per I'i'iil, rimnliiK from ISO per mil
for lircttil lo III per i*i* ii t for pii.
till oi'h.
MOST PROSPEROUS PERIOD
IN PAST MUTT WHS
Si i l{('|inri.s I'resident William II.
White In Stockholders ?>r
It., r. a: I'. Itailroad.
TDLI.S Ol-' MOW* STATION PLAN'S
.Architect and Kimiueor Nearly
Heady fur Big Hermitage Develop
iii en i?Work mi Lowering llelt
I-iii** Progressing Steadily.
President William II. Ulit.c a ml all
dir'-i-t 01 w i'ii' ted yi'.iitctdiiy for
*i"' ' ' -::;iig yi-ifr it th'- annual meet
:r.?r of t 'i ?- stockholders of the Uieh
tiiomJ, K'i?-rej trk.sliui? anil Potomac
H.tilroad Company. which was held in
t!.?- general ollii.f: of the road in The
l-";rst National Hank Kiiililitig. The
board of 11:i.-? toi;- i-? cornpos- <1 of J.
Tayior Klly.-on, Kb'limond. \v. .1. Har
!? 1m?ii. Norfolk; l.ilbtirn T My?-rs, Rich
mond. Samuel Hea. Philadelphia:
? ;<orge W. Stevens. R.hmond; Henry
Walter-. Now York. William II. White,
Hi. iimond, at.'! i >;< n i?l Wlllard. of
Hal t imori'
if hi.-- animal report to ."to kholdcrs.
l'r<-blent White said thai the Rich
mioiiiI. l-'redeneksburg ami Potomac
Railroad ha.-- pal tliipaleii, with tho
other t ranspor tallon ami commercial
interest- ?.f tin.- country, in the perio?i
of procperily wlia-h licuaii during the
fiscal >i ar ended .lune 3". Although
the ttr.-t few months of last year rc
suit.'il in diminish) d r? venue.-, tho y.-ar
a- a whole sh .woii an increase hi the
railwa;. oporat i ng rcvcmiM over the
prccedim: year of $417,SSS, or 14 per
? '?nt. while operating i-xpcnses de
creased to such an extent that net r.-v
??r:'n* from operation Rained 4 1 per cent
over 1 !?1 j.
Th.- ratio of operating expenses to
ri vviuiiof 11-.. 1 for the year was
r.per cent, a- i iiinp.in il with pet
cent tlie v ear hefi>re.
ri:i,i> or i.o w i-:iti\ (>
IIKI.T mm: I'll A ( lv S
In ? -?r i !;? ? t: on with tlo lowering of
the I'.elt l.iiie tra'ks and the erection
? f 11. ? n-.-w union station on West
Hroad Street. I'resident White said:
"Alter nisii:> public hearings ami con
ferences between the otlieials of this
company and the public authorities, ail
agreement was reached with the city of
Richmond. embodied in an ordinance
of 11??- -a .1 city approved May In, 1910,
wher.lij tins company dedicated to the
. :' v a right of way and easement for
i lie extension of .vloiiuiiieiit Avenue
across the tracks of this company's
James River branch, the lowering of
those tracks from Acca to Cary Street
Road to a maximum depression of six
teen feet In-low their present grades,
and til'- construction of concrete over
head hruljies t" accommodate the cross
.im of Monument. Patterson and drove
Avenues, and Hroad Street. !t is also
part of the agreement that the coin
pan> is to *pav all the expenses jn
? -idem to the doing of the said work."
but "reserves the right to institute
legal proceedings against the city of
Kichinom! when said work shall have
been conipii'te*l and said expenses paid,
to recover one-half of the said cost
of said improvement.' This reserva
tion prows out of the interpretation by
the company's general counsel of the
laws of Virginia applicable to the sub
ject.
w ii.i. piiovidi-: \i:\\
i?a.ssk.m;i:ii i>'.\i ii.itibs
"Kor several years past the o/licers
and directors of the company have
been giving exhaustive and painstak
ing thought to the problem of provid
ing adequate joint passenger terminal
facilities for this compativ and the At
lantic '."oast l.ine in the city of IJich
iiioml. I Hiring the year marked prog
ress has been made, and it is now con
tinently thought that a solution has
been reached which will not only pro
vide the railroads with tho facilities
they so urgently need, liui will prove
highlv gratifying to the community
and traveling public. Numerous con
ferences liavo been held by the of flee rR
of this company with those of the At
lantic Coast Line, as well as with
committees representing various com
mercial bodies of the city. Public
hearings have been attended and vary
ing public opinion carefully considered.
As a result the boards of directors of
I lie two companies formally desig
nated as a site for the passenger ter
minal the property on West Hroad
Street, belonging to this company and
kiio.vn as tho Ilermilage, or old fair
grounds, and determined on the forma
tion of a terminal railway company
to acquire said Hermitage property
and construct and maintain adequate
tracks and passenger terminal facili
ties thereon. Accordingly a charter
was obtained on May I?. Hllii, for the
Richmond Terminal Hallway Company
ind that company duly organized.
"Harry Krassier was selected as
consulting engineer lo prepare plans
for track layout, and John ltiis
sell Pope as the architect lo furnish
plans' for the station buildings. These
gentlemen are diligently at work upon
the commissions entrusted to theni."
The annual report of operations
shows that during the tiscal year tho
(Continued on Second Page.)
Lane Will Put Formal Proposi-1
tion in Writing Before Car
ranza Representatives.
ADMITS OF LITTLE DEBATE
Americans Appear Confident
That End of Conference . j
Is in Sight.
I Hv Associated 1
ATI?.\XT|C city, X. .1., November
20.-?buis Cabrera ami his colleagues
Ion the .MpxIiiin-AiiiTi' iin Joint com
I mission will li" formally told ?o
morrow by Secretary of Hie Interior
l.iinc. L'liiiirman of the American emu*
J mission, on Just wliat terms an tiproc
! nieiit providing for withdrawal of the I
j American punitive expedition and the |
.protection "f lif?? and property along |
tin* international border may be !
r? a. h?d
h\,i tiflt d 1>\ ili?v ussurani'O of I'resi- J
i dent Wilson that lie will back the |
American representatives in their ef- j
forts to r<-a?'l> a settlement "f the quo*- |
lions ut issue, retary bane returned I
11?? r? ? l.'tf to-ilav, arid immediately w-nt
\ into conference with the two other
) A nierican < oin tnls si oners.
ITIte atmosphere <>f uncertainty and
??v?;n hopelessness which has been up
; parent for many weeks was entirely
. lacking to-night. The Americans ap
peared confident that the end of the
| conference is in sight. Their proposi
tions have been reduced to writing.
sitid it is understood will admit of
| little debate.
The .Mexicans appeared not to take
a pessimistic view of the situation. Mr.
j Cabrera attain assuring newspaper nien
that he wus very hopeful of an amica
; adjustment There was no evi
1 dence, however, that lu- was prepared
to recede from his position so Ions
maintained that agreement to tiie plan
j "f the amcri'-nns was out of the ques
!l'""
<\ lilt Kit \ WIN* OXKIt OTIIKIt
T?(l TO STAMi WITH HIM
It;liario Bonillas and Alberto .1. I'ani.
the other members of the Mexican
; ? "inmission, have been disposed, of
late, to agree with the Americans on
the plan suggested, but there was s?,me
reason to-night to believe that Mr.
Cabrera bad won them over to an
agreement to stand with hint.
The plan to be placed before the
j.Mexicans will contain nothing that is
new to them. It has been gone over
' in sessions of the joint commission
time and again, and will not require a
I long explanation.
The question at issue is not the with
drawal of General Pershing's troops.
? hut the method of controlling the bor
j der after they have been taken out.
| The Mexicans will not be permitted to
place restrictions on the manner in
which the American government may
: protect its hord- r. nor on the manner
in which it may punish marauding
i bandit*
| The .Mexicans have objected seriously
, to at knowledging the right of the
| I'nited States to send troops across the
j international boundary line in pursuit
'of bandits, but have been more in
sistent that in case troops are sent,
j they be moved subject to certain re
strictions. When the Mexican com
, missioners leave here it will be with
! the realization that American forces
will be used to run down any raiding
band that crosses the border into the
] i'nited States, regardless of where they
j may have to so or how lonu they may
have to stay in Mexico.
jl>KI.\t MHillT
HA l"I,KA OK MEXICANS
It was regarded here to-night as
not improbable that a delay might be
caused by the desire of?the Mexicans
to communicate further with tjeneral
? 'arranza. If time is taken for the
Mexicans to report the new situation
to thejr chief and for him to reply, it
is possible nothing may be done until
Saturday.
\ \ \ llll S AllOt T HKMAININH
AMKHHANS IN I'AII It A I,
I By Associated Press. I
t Kb I'ASO. TEX., November "J >. ?
American mining men here continue
to make every possible effort to obtain
definite information of the fat^ of the
'remaining Americans in i'arral. In
aiddition to the live or six Americans
known to have reached Culiacan.
Sinaloa. there are believed to be at
least six other Americans still in the
rarral district.
With the exception of the report
brought Io the border by Chinese ref
ugees stating that "all foreigners had
been ordered killed by Villa" and the
report brought to Juarez, by a Mexican
who claimed to have seen four Ameri
cans being taken to Villa's headquar
ters" In I'arral after the occupation of
the town, nothing is known of '.he
fate of foreigners known to have been
| in the I'arral district prior to Villa's
j entrance.
'I'll It KK |)i'.AP < IliVKSi:
skkn on silt I'.i'.rs
\ A Mexican from I'arral reported linv
j ing seen three dead Chinese in the
I street when he left there.
The Alvarado Mining Company re
j ceivod a inessago late to-day from
| Xogales. Ariz... saying four American
refugees from I'arral were expected to
arrive in Xogales to-night from Culic
ian, Sinaloa. en route to 131 I'aso. Ac
cording to the' mining company, at
least eight Americans still are unac
counted for in the I'arral district.
Albert llerold. an American cattle
I num. who was arrested and taken to
I Chihuahua City on a charge of cattlo
stealing. was released there, and has
i readied the border. He declared Gen
eral Trevino warned htm to leave for
101 I'aso as soon as he was released.
Herold added that General Trevino de
| dared he. was no longer able to pro
tect American citizens in his zone.
Estimates to Be Presented to
Congress This Winter Heavi
est in American History.
CALL FOR $379,151,701 TOTAL
Figures Contemplate Building of
Half of Ships Yet Remaining
on Three-Year Schedule.
' "> |
W 20.? While
Secretary Mani-ls awarding
tracts lo-day for aril.or ;,|lU. f,)r
four battleships author!*, .1 at the last
l"?? r approving
; plans for an ammunition last
Iv-ssH d'-sls, fltr |(UilfIlli|{.
I I'r 'Kratn the appropnation sul.com
!""11 "?????" Naval ?lu",
| "'Can work th. 1 | v , stimates the
l i?st ii, Ameri.-an historv. to be
, presented to r??K,,.,.s tlljs Wlllt..r T
I ; "V V, ","artn?'i.,s 1 31 S f^ur.-s
r. 1 construction of |IU|f )>f th?
ships y? t built ,h. Kro?t Dir.,.
.'?!
appropriated last .suminu
j;rrvtM f,"i,h",,r,m,r ????<??
I..." M' lh" ' *"l"ra<l'>. Mar via ?d
, Uash.nKU.n and West Virginia. * we,-'
awarded to th- H-Jhlehem an.I
| n"?io M-?-| <'umpani-s. -H-h r?-. .ivii.ir
'ncr I'l! '"* A "??'??-? ?"."ly -
?'>ntr?i.-ts .says that, despite
r plato. the prices offered uer? .
proximate,y the same as those ?a,d
; UK" the I'-nnsvlvaniu
was being constructed.
KSTI1IATK.S HKKOItl*
UOI.'SK StIICOMMITTKK
Th- department estimates before the
House subcommittee call for funds to
) n T "?,nstr,,,;ti"n <'T three battleship,
baltIe c|'Uiser, three scout .-rubers'
sixteen destroyers. four fleet sub-'
marin-s. f.,urtee? CO(lsl sui,m ,
ftender.bmar'ne t"n'1f'r aml "nf" destroycY
It is understood .ha-. the ?hw gen.
-ra board urged that the two'ijfu".
< tuisets remaining ,he thr
| program and four of the six bau,e
l^h'p, be p,a,.ed in the 1S18
I Ji L n"nl ,,r< however, to
let ,IPW ,;ol,iitrU?,tlon equallv
between the I91S and I3i? ,,ms
Hear-Admiral Strauss, chief of orri
nance, appeared before the subcom
mittee. Hx plain ins an increase in Is
estimates of JI.SOA.OOO for fleet a
munition. he said that the cost'of pro
lc?d h" "nd ,?lhor ordnance material
i ?* ;;r'o?,rd
:.:r
teen-inch size used by the navv showed
" -? "'?r ?nt increase over last ear's
?tuotat Ions. ?
j At another point Admiral Strauss
outlined the department's scheme for
; storing in navy-yards puns an,I a.n
!"??'>?'o? with Which to equip merchant
! ? nT aUXi,i:"i- ^ time
j war. More than $3,000,000 for the
I ! ur. )ase of Kljris and mountings for
I ils purpose was provided last VPnr
i "*aaaaNi ? ?"r lh" "-iwrtinem s'eelcs
I1.50A.OOD tor ammunitiou.
Th- department also has in
mended the insta.lation of ^Uiai^
j MJns at naval stations, manazines and
radio stations, the pending estimates
t win tlfk $U'00-00" ?'"? Purpose
; I M III take more than I ,|1(1 ........
j purpo.so. 11
1 Admiral Strauss said the ?aval sun
fa. toiy Was now produclns torpedoes
I- first deliveries, however, ex. eedins
cost ,i,o price quoted l.v private
manufacturers, i, j.s e.vpe. tod fhat the
" orv ;v,? Hs costs ?-otssiderabiv
o ">e iomilHMci.ll rate with It's
next delivery.
Admiral Strauss will appear before
j h. eommit.ee again to-morrow. and
j "til be followed by other bureau chiefs
! finally i,y Secretary Daniels and
; members of ,|,e general board
; II"' ammunition ship, for whi-h the
.secretary approved plans, is the firs,
, "i a ft "f "'o kind ever designed for the
!"oooo , wi!,1,,avo a 'Jf-Placement of
shells. special facilities *rc
I or handling explosives aboard, and
, he holds w,1| be equipped with cooi
j ins facilities insure the regula
jtion temperature. I.?rge refrigeration
spaces will make her easily convertible
j into a supply vessel.
M V < III \ |-:n \ |>|.;s |(; ^ ,..|J
< ?>*?- "it run, on.
??'?opellins machinery is designed for
either coa or fuel oil. A defensive
armament Includes four live-inch rapid
guns and , wo three-im l, antiair
sb. K\T' d" i,r,! be,I,K i,sk<-'
shipbuilders, and .he department hopes
r:;';;,10 o,,c"ihem ">?
Secretary Daniels said to-day he had
arransed to confer with representatives
? f tlie Klectric Hoat Company i? :,ri
, effort ,0 seek ...odIHeations of their
pending submarine bids. This com'panv
offered to construct twenty-four or
more submarines, deliveries to i?.si?
within twenty-live months, and pro
posed a. much higher cost tn have the
deliveries begin within lift ,?o?,|,s
I he depart,ne.it is determined fo place
he submitritie . onslrucl|o? o? not more
than .1 twenty-two months' basis
Hepresentatives of ?lo So.imo ,
s| ruction and Dry Dock Company also
M l confer wllh the department of
?" Wednesday. This con.panv
'l1" "?'y M,,? i.m;
11,0 ,HW <"*?? the constriiction of
a scoui cruiser. With the contract for
one scout cruiser given to the Seattle
company, the department still faces the
problem of placing the construct of
the remaining three vessels of this
type, and Secretary Daniels Is plan
ning to return to Congress for an ad
ditional appropriation for the building
of these ships.
Comm ittee Begins
In vestiga tion In to
Railroad Problems
Executives of Greatest Sys
tems to Appear---New
lands Outlines General
Purposes of Inquiry.
' Ahs'M |*ro.ss. I
\\ ASM IN'iTON, .VovciiiImt jn. What
|is the matter with ? |lo railroa.ls ami
I what kind of )<?$; islation i 'nimi ess
iniKItt enaet to better conditions will
he pictured tn tlie joint congres.siona 1
committee investigating t ra importation
problems. beginning on Thursday. by
the executives of some of the- greatest !
systems in the country.
The investigating committee held its
. tirst hvjitfiuti lo-ilay, heard an opening
statement l>y its chairman. Senator !
Newlands. a,ml rei-eived notiio of ap
pearance from nearly 100 public utility
eompaiiles. State railway commissions.
< mimercial and indu.strial organizations
and shippers. Ko w who noteil ap
pearances seemed willing to open, each
wanting the other to take the lend,
because all said they wanted to avoid
having their plans prejudiced
The commission decided to hear the
railroads tlrst. in the belief that their
executives are better prepared to state
their case without further delay. The
railway executives* advisory coniiiuttee.
composed of more than a dozen heads
of important systems, was advised, and
it is expected that most of its members
will testify before the railroad side
I is completely told.
Willi. HOI,I) iikaiti\(is
ISA I II IIAV I V WKKK
The committee decided to hold hear
ings each week d?v from 10 ,\. ,\f \_Q
1:3(? 1*. M. only, to give the official re
porters time to keep the record tip
to date for the committee and for wit
nesses. No decision was reached as to
what witnesses will be called when the
railroads conclude. Representatives of
the American Telephone and Telegraph
'?"mpany. the Western Union Telegraph
Company and several of the big express
companies were present, and wHI be
heard before the committee reports.
The railroad phase of the invest iua
*1011 is expected to take most of the
committee s time. but. under the resolu-"*
tion which created it. its invention ions
are to extend to all such public utili
ties.
In opening the railroad investiga
tion. Senator Francis r.. New lands. Ihn
chairman, explained that the inquiry
would cover a wide field. Me said:
It will relate to every phase of the
transportation question, the rail car
riers. the river carriers and the ocean
carriers, and the perfection of a har
monious system of transportation eni
!>i acing rail, river and ocean carriers
that will meet the demands of inter
state as well as foreign commerce, and
it will also be applied to telegraph and
telephone lines, express companies, and
other public utilities.
TO ('OXSII)KU WISDOM
OK <JO V Kit X MKVr ON XKIIMI IP
"It will embrace not only the subject
of government control and regulation,
of these utilities, but also th- wisdom
and the feasibility of government
ownership, and the comparative worth
and efliciency of government regula
tion and control as compared with gov
ernment ownership and operation.
it will not lie possible for us to
come to a speedy conclusion regarding
all questions, but that conclusion will
l>e more quickly arrived ai if we have
the sympathetic aid of practical men
w ho for years have been conversant
with the practical side of transporta
tion quest ion, of the economists ami
publicists, of railway executives and
workers of commercial bodies, farm
ers and manufacturers and shippers
generally."
Referring to government ownership
Mr. Newlands said: '
"It is a question that must be fiiecl.
Other nations far advanced in civili
zation have adopted the system.
"If we pursue the exercise and the
study of government regulation wise
j ly. persistently and energetically, we
I may create such a system of regula
j lion as w ill meet every requirement,
i Both in time of peace and of war.
and in exigency or crisis. Kiiit it seems
j to be a wise thing for the govern
j ineiit to ascertain now the history of
j the countries that have adopted gov
! eminent ownership and operation of
railways, and to watch the experiences
of the Kiiropcan countries in this
great war in this regard."
fllAlt \< TKItl/.KS STIMKKS
AS II AH IIA HOI S AM) lilt I TA I.
Strikes as a means of settling labor
disputes. Senator Newlands charac
terises hs "the most barbaric and
brutal of processes. Die question
lis,'" he added, "whether a nation pre
tending to some degree of civilization,
which has eliminated the doctrine of
force from application to controversies
between man and man. and which fur
nishes judicial tribunals for the set
tlement of those controversies, and
j which is novy and lias been for years
j endeavoring internationally to secure
a system under which the nations of
j tin* earth will create similar tribit
I rials for the adjustment of interna
tional disputes without resort to force
whether a civilized nation can be
content to perpetuate the existing
condition of things."
Hours and wages of employes must
be considered carefully. Senator New
lands declared, because "the burdens
which constitute t lie operating ex
penses of these corporations arc in
time transferreil to the .shippers."
Senator Newlands outlined the pro
posals to reorganize the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and to create
Federal agencies which might supplant
tConUnued on Second J'age.)
SK.VVI'OS KI1XM IS NKWLA.MJ.S.
Bishop Kilgo Speaks of Him us
"Peerless Prophet of Amer
ican Republic."
I XTlOlt F.STI \ O ItKPOIITS ItKAI)
Methodists Will Probably Heaeh Ad
journment To-Nl^ht Following
Itemliiiji ??f ltishop Kilo's Assign*
ments of Pastorales.
"The ministry <
must tin n111>i-:iist-cl
liasi Inu ynnrs as
single influence in
>f Francis Ashury
In ihi' light ..f ilm
the most valuable
the foundation of
the American republic." declared Hisliop
Kilg.. before tin? Virginia Conference
at the Hroad Street Methodist Church
yesterday morning in his address at
the .special service celehrating the cen
tenary of the death of Bishop Ashury.
Xu discourse of l.ishop Kilgo during
the entire meeting of the. conference
has received more earnest attention or
m?.re hearty appreciation from its
ln-ar.-is than the irihute to Bishop As
hury. \\ hen Bishop Kilgo had finished,
tin- conference voted on motion of liev.
W. Ashury Christian. I >. !?., that the
address In- printed with the minutes of
the meeting.
"If It.-cause ..I" his military achieve
ments we nail Washington the leather
of Mis Country; if Kichurd Ib-nry I
and Jefferson. and .Monroe, ami Franklin
deserve rememhrance. to Francis As
hury. the untiring prophet of Cod and
the ceaseless wanderer ill the wilder
ness, the nation owes undying multi
tude." said Bishop Kilgo.
t'i:iciti,i:ss i'koi'iii;t
OF A.MKitl< AN ItlOlM III.IC
"Asl.ury was the peerless prophet
of our American republic. It' you want
to know what democracy is. i say, it is
Frauds Ashury. lie proclaimed iiie
freedom of man not as a civil achieve
ment. hut as a divine right. lie made
freedom in Ann rim a religion. Peo
ple who firmly believe they am free
before Cod will not submit to bondage
of any kind at the hands of men. In
the theology of the early days, salva
tion was a matter ..f election. To the
ministry of Francis Ashury Americans
owe ,t larger debt for their freedom
than to any otlie.* man.
"In this centennial year it is pro
posed (.. erect a monument to Itishop
Ashury in Washington. It is high
tune. It would seem that monuments
can be ere.-ted only to warriors and
politicians. There never lived among
us a man whose claims to perpetual
memory surpassed those of Ashury.
"Francis Ashury ha? a monument.
does noi stand on an\
I est a I, molded in silent
is Kpiscopal .Method'sm.
personal embodiment of
lie is the head of the
slant force on t ne
Ills monument is
though. It
granite p.
broir/.e. ||
lie is I III!
methodisin.
mightiest single |??-?
American . outin.-nl
<-\ cry where."
15>-v. .1 K. I.aughtou. I ' I ?
tiusville, presided during th
memorial service.
Ci.vernor Stuart was present
time at the conference yesterday
inn. and spoke briefly.
"There is not 1 ing that conies before
me that I am sure .mild n<?t he better
done by touching the things this con
ference stands for," said the Governor.
Admission on trial to the Virginia
Conference as traveling preachers wn.-<
granted to l.eonard It Itlaci.. who was
transferred from the Xorthwesi Texas
Conference; iMimas M Mulone. .lames
I'pshur Hdtvards, cluster Alan Tucker
11 a r \
of Mar
As bury
morn
la uss, W 111 ia in
W. Oliver C
Is en -
? rdon
of ii. I. Mart in a nil
admission on triai
Andrews C
neth Cunningham,
and I. c Smart.
The applications
10 K. Hegges for
were rejected, but the conferences em
powered the presiding elders to em
ploy the two men as supplier fur vacant
charges. Lively debate tool; place ,
over the question of admitting Mr j
Martin. The advanced age of Mr. Mar- ?
tin was the principal point raised i.v
those opposed to his admission
11 Kl'Olt'PS ON MISSIONS
ANI) F.rWOHTII I.I-: \I I' i
lie v. i: II. Kawlings, 11. I? , of Xash - !
ville, I'enu , read a report on missions, [
in which the "every member cunvass" I
(.Continued on Second t'age.) "
TEUTONIC FORGES
NOW ARE REACHING
OUT FOR CRAIOVA
This Move Place Menace in
Rear to Roumanian
Retreat.
DISPUTE FOR POSSESSION
OF TRANSYLVANIAN PASSES
Fighting in Macedonia, From the
Cerna to Lake Presba, Com
plete Victory for Entente.
SKKKK NOT YKT IX MONASTIR
Town Virtually Destroyed in Recent
Struggle, A rent-ding to l.'n
uflieijil Accounts.
I My A win lai o?l I'ro.-s.l
r<ON'nON', N'uvenilioi "O. ? W"i t h the
end of flu' first stage of the l-'raneo
Serbian ca nipa it; n. which resulted in
the pit i> 1st t ion of .Monastir by ' he
Bulgarians nii'l Hermans. and n diminu
tion of liostilit ioj hi the Somme region
of France, except for bombardments
and isolated infantry actions. Rou
mania has again become the center
of Interest.
Driving eastward through Western
Wailachia. the Austro-Oernian forces
now are reaching out for Craiova, lying
on the railroad midway between !he
r>anube town of OrHova. Hungary and
Bukharest. This maneuver apparently
places a menace in the rear to the re
treat of the Roumanians tlghtinc In the
north on Hungarian soil and disputing
with the Alistro-Hermau forces the
passages of the TransyIvanian Alps
leading to the plains of Wailachia.
In the .liul Valley region the retire
ment of the Roumanians continues, and
in the Campulung srrtor 1'etrograd re
ports that further Roumanian attack*
against the Teutonic allies have been
unsuccessful. On lb? I?amihe front in
Dobrndja artilleic ?ugagemMtts are in
progress from Silistria to Oltlna.
ki<;hti.\<; in matkiioma
\ ICroil V KOIl KSTKM'M
The lighting in Macedonia front the
Cerna River to l,al:e Presba has ended
in a complete victory for the entente
allied troops, says the Paris War of
fice. The Sorbs have not yet entered
Monastir, captured on Sunday, the town
having: been virtually destroyed, ac
cording to unofficial accounts. The
[ entente forces have occupied villages
to the north of the town, and are de
clared to he still in pursuit of th*
Hermans and Unitarians. Ilerlin says,
however, that the newly chosen posi
tions selected for their retirement
riorth of Monastir have been entered
by tlie Hermans and Bulgarians with
out pressure from their antagonists,
and also that new Herman forces have
reached the lighting zone.
The Herman artillery on the Somnie
front near Reaumont - Hauicl and
Heudecouit and on the Verdun sector
near Douauinont have heavily shelled
British and French positions.
Strong forces of Austrians. in an
assault on the summit of hill No. Hit!
on the I'arso front of the Italian thea
ter. have captured Italian intrench*
ments.
? 'old weather has sol in on the Rus
sian front, and as a conse<|uencc little
lighting is going on there.
TIC I TO Ml' THOOI'S
AI>l>HOA< IllXt. < It \ IOX A
I Hv AK???>?,iriio<! I'r??ss I
BKIIUX, November (via Say villa).
?The Herman War < Mlice announced to
night that the Teutonic troops in Flou
mania are approaching t'raiova. the
capital of Western Wailachia, IU0
inib's west of BuU ha rest.
North of the Somine an artillery duel
is in progress, ii is announced, livelier
lighting is reported on the lower Dan*
ube and on the Struma front.
The Itouinanian city of t'raiova is on
the railroad midway between Orsovti,
on the extreme western border of Uou
mania and Bukharest. the Roumanian
capital. The Herman War Office an
nounced on Sunday that the Teuton
troops pushing behind the Roumanians
in Southwestern Roumani i had reached
the Orsova-t'raiova railroad
SKHlis <;i\k\ i.ion's *>ii\in;
IN CAPTl III". OK MOVV.HTIIt
I Itv AuMii'ialfil I'ro>s. I
I.|?XI>|'\, XoX'inb.'i- -0 The Ser
bians a r" given III- lion's .-liar" of
honor by the morning papers tn dis
: cussing tin fall of Monaster The cap
tute. of hi!" I "J 1 "J by the Serbians and
their rapid advance t?? hill 1.7S.
threatening the Bulgarians' only av
enue of retreat along the I'rilep road,
is considered the main factor in forc
ing the hasty evacuation of the city.
.Military opinion insists that the al
lies niii^t now advance toward I'rilep,
using .Monastir as a base, and from
there to N'?gotin, on tlie Vardar Kroni
tin- latter town they claim that the
I liulgarian positions east .?f the Cerna
| could be outttanked, and the frontier
passes opened to the allied fore< t
which are now engag-d nvtliw-si of
Saloniki. The fall of Monastir is con
?iidered h clearly showing the su
1 pet iority of the allies nv> r 11i? ? H? rinan
Bulgar forees. in view of the formi
dable defenses which hail been created
around the city
UIMTIMI ATTACKS K \ 11,
WITH IIKA \ \ I.O.SSK*
I tt> As.->o<-lat>''! Press.)
RKKI.IX, .November JO (via Sayville).
-Attin ks were made by the BrititfT
yesterday on toe Sotnme front between
Serre and Reaticouri and : outh of
Mirauuiont The War Office unnotinc <
that these assaults failed with heavy
losses to the attackers. The Mritisi-.
wero driven from the western part of
H randc^urt. To-day's statement fol
lows/ t :
?ytrtn* group of Crown Prince Rup
/ I
