. ' J
, ','; -7
y:
UTKT (UOD fl'CAX Ot'OTAriO-vS
' ' S ' i frit , Dnlturg
OtHfirif . f.'i lb. fwr taa
frit-, Bawkilft :. Unit 1130.40
IT. H WFM
Nov. ?, 11
four hmm'
i f tfl If-
mint :i ltf -''.(Ml.
Mlrt. 72; Vn
Tamperatm
62. Wentl.cr, rli'Hr.j!
rTioi qtvtfr-
.n. flM,eO
".-.a .-k L
ii
, .-fir,-'':-;' 3 ;y .
VflU IX, K'O. ' ;o
p r " 1 f r " -
- r - - -
dLLult.J i. . .i
0PH
FEDpiOii
'" : ' .' - ' . .' ..-V. '' J
Presidents Go To Washfngton To
Consult With President Wilson
"Over Prospective Railroad Le
Qislatlon' At Coming' Session
.'V
LABORITES DEY;COURTS .
AND LEGAL' DECISIONS
Y ' ". I1'- . r ' '' '. , .'V '
.'v -'' t ''.''"'-.''
Findings Dealing Witht Relation
ship of Employe and' Employer
If Unsatisfactory 'To Unions
May Be Oeclared Usurpations
' ' vr '- A' '
, (kMwUtt mm by TtUnl WlnltM.)
BALTIMORE November 21
While the presidents Of the
four railroad brotherhoods, who
consulted with the President dur
ing the period of the enactment of
the Adamson Law, are again at
Washington 'to consult with the
President on . whatcvejr further
railroad labor legislation may be
brought up at the Short session,
the , delegates -of:; the, mericah
Yeiefitionij'JliOTin session
here'f are ctTdering';thf question
oi an affiliation letweeii);the bro-
therhottda and" thr' irdwktiau. - .
should 'thi;'
ft 1 . a 1 -ill ' . .1 1 L k.' . . I
one hunqf eI and ten national and
, mtefnationaf ttnloris of the feder
atibo,' v(Uh;their.t'o million mem
. hers, bclf,.xf the railroad 'train
men, iu whatever further action
tie'7nayvdecide to take.
strike; threat renewed
Th brotherhoods have"aeady
: announced that if attempts on the
'part of Hie railroads are made to
' evade any portions of the obliga
' lions of the Adamson Law, in the
opinion of the trat'nmen, the strike
which the presidents were au
thorized to call in August last will
be called immediately after the
New Year, when the new law
becomes oerativc.
The presidents of the brother
hoods in Washington are said to
be there in readiness to oppose
any legislation providing for any
enforced federal investigations of
railroad labor troubles as a pre
ventative of strikes,
BIDS DEFIANCE TO COURTS
Yesterday; by a' unanimous
vote, the federation of labor dele
gates adopted a report of one of
their committees, declaring that;
"Any injunction. dealing with. the
relationship between employer
and employe based on the dictum
that 'labor is property' will be
treated as usurpation and disre
garded, whatever the consequ
ence." On September 21, the federal
court of appeals of Pennsylvania
handed down a precedent creating
decision,-ruling Jhat the language
of, the Sherman Apd Clayton Acts
extends the rule of common law
usage and . holding the term
"association" to include unincor
porated as " well as incprpjrate
associations. Under this ruling
an, injunction coulili.be made en
forceable against a' union, inas
much as a labor union and its in
dividual member could be fined
and its and thtf.'r property at
tached, i
Datclir from Whin(itun yvtr
day ail tht whiU ingUtlng to news
papermen tbat 1bry bud Kline to WuhH
injton only to pay their renpecU to
Greek Triumvirate
Allies lssu? Additional Demands.,
Tivt : Vnt .. 'e.Mki
? Portion :, Leaks' -' To Public
!.rNiXN; 1 NmbKr ' tl Demand
nailo npo Kpf t)nntantlBe, anouot-
Iti praetlcaUr to a Bhimatnaj. m! '
1ii 1ir Y rrply'rMtfrdty. , ' Tha ti
nr tha demaada baa bun kept ar -
rrt,' hot aoiM ' tartlnarr- fh ttltl
matum f Admiral da Paamat bfla
leali1 , an Injiortan tlan thrtMcb
toowpUaBCa WUk it by tbH5rh Kin, '
Tb situation ta.'Athfaa U regardtxl as ;
ry. aarfona, bawtmt, awiortie ti r
Hontrr .aVaiwtel; y,!,fcV.v.yVjy f ''
Ain demand af th Vreneb 4ailni( -(
fimaiai(dof tha allied Meet amouata i
practically, t aaforred . reaofraiiion :;
n , tha .rt pf vKtng Cnaatantiaa. of ",.
th lndrndeia nrat-h gnvernnMnit art
hp by the trlitnirlrate of whleb former .',
Premier. Vtiilxeloa la at th head. Thla
demand Wai that the Kin liberata '
thoe nffirera of tha Oreeb army -who -ware
held iiv tha Hynin-oa rtriaon aa d-
at-rtera, their nffenao Veinff their deaira
t loin the Oreek ravolutioniata at 8
lonika. .
Thin demand haa Wen acceded to.
and yeaterday, by royal deerea. King
Comrtantin accepted tha retrlfrnation
froin H army of thaaa Impriaoaed oW -
cera, and Ordered their relaaaa, with
pcrtnlnMion for then to gr to Haloniks
ta join the foreea operating agmiar-t the -
"nltariaa lavadcra of Qreek Mace-
Teaterday morntag, , following; the da.
mand made upon the roraliat govern
went ithtt- ail arm " and ammunition
held (a Greece, with the exaeptioQ.of
tboae required, by th at yet mobilized
50 .000 troon.' be aurreadered to the
Alliea. Admiral du'Fmirnet notified tha
dlrifomatie and eoniular tepraaantattvea
of the Central Power to leave Greee
not later than tomorrow.' ."V: r
. Aeeordiag to a Beuter'a ageary d
apaich, received here f roar Athens loM
night,1 Admlrat, d f ornet aa aotifled
the Anatriaa, . Derntaa, Bulgariaa and
W t l iL.k II , ' L L ..
f TixiJO amu thai, tufc 'n
which W
. , . . i .ki a. A
addvl that if they
win be compelled
them Jfronj Qreace.N
LTurka apd Bulfmrluna. la Oreeee, while
the Npanieh. Irgatioh i performing ihj
,aame aervice for tha German la dmt
conntry. : " ' . . , : I
The: iaimcdiate cause of the aetion
taken by the Entente In foreing the
departure of the Teutonic minlatem
from-Ttreece in that the German naval
attache Baron von Beaareean-Graney
has jteen caaght apying for bla eiwn
try, aays a, . deapatch ta the London
liaily Mail, and printed her thla morn
ing. .
Other deapatchee from Athena de
clure that it in expected a formal pro-ti-Mt
will be filed by the Qreek gov
ernment agalnet the action of the Al
lien, which aot unlikely will be fol
lowed by the formation of Oreree into
t neutral aeiie.
.
AMERICAN AVIATORS
AT HOME ON LEAVE
'AaaaetateS Praia ky ftaeral WImIm.)
NEW YOBK November 20 l.ieut.
William Thaw and C. ('. Johnnon, Am
erlcan members of the Freneb aviation'
corps, arrived today ob leave of al-1
ernce. tt ban eeveral timee been re i
ported that Thaw bad been killed.
, 1 . .,, 1, ...
GIRL FLIER MAKES RECORD
FLIGHT ACROSS COUNTRY
(AaaoeUta Fran by Freer) Wlreleu)
K few YORK, November 20 Roth
Law, the glrla viator, unking a. erow
conntry flight from Chicago to New
York, terminated her. reeord flight at
lovrnor'a Inlan4 tbia morning, rover
Hijr' the (butane of HZ'i mi lea (n nine
bourn ("d one minute, actunl flying.
the Preaident, the heidi of the four
great railway brotherhood, eouferred
with the Preaident and later with Hop
rvaeotativ W. C. Adamann of Oeorgia,
author kof th Adamaoa "eight-hour"
lawt Th runferenc with th Preai
dent waa held at lv forty-five o'clock.
Jt la .etpeetMd that the fight over
the new Adoiuaun bill probably will be
met, with cooperation between the rail-
wav brethcrUooiln and the American
Kederatloo-,of Itbor,. and .that tbeee
plana were UiauuaMed today. At nil
o'clock the Prenideut conferred with
Hepreaentative Adamaon.
The l'rcnijent in bla addreu to ron-
grvaa will. make a reconiineodatiiuK for
the reinuiuder of the Ivgialativ pro
grnm which waa uufiaiahud wheoj eon
greaa adjourned.
It in learned that the brotherhood!
und the federation f labor butk-op-poee
the l'reaidcnt 'a rouimeudationa'l
proponiag aa jnveatlgatioB ef railroad
controveraiea before a etrike if per
mitted.
HONOLULU JIAVVAH TERRITORY. TimSDAV," NftVEMftER
M AP, th' Sommt and Ancre Rivert thoyv'ng, iuccetsive progressive advancet made by
. -,th? French ahd Britiih troopa under, the command of.Generala Puch and Sir Douglas Haig.
Tha latest advances recorded were made November 19 and take the British farther along the Ancre
wnucinv r rencn gains are shown
j k
I t'
' '
v -
.
,
s
' '
;' '
j ,'
I
, .
!
' .
1 - - ' ' i r ' i 1 ' r" w.'.xxa.xyw!.-.a.m-V l,tttrci&lr ' I
WASniNGTOWWEIlANKLY A LA RUED
,-v v j , ... v-Ti t , ,. , ,. ,t. , . ,JT
i ', "'L' ' ' l . , V. .
' nan4rrmarif flfftmeJe DAl.Ara,' vIliieUr ! I D1 ! . D!i. rrit
-Upon American Stint; In Regard TAnnin tf Merchant. Crafr
For Purposes of ;Dffense Against Submarines
-, , (Associated PrM by Federal, Wireless.) i
WASHINGTON. November 21 Official fcfrcles here ate frankly alarmed over the increasing dan
ger of trouble with Germany over the submarine controversy which has never been finally
settled. The latest development in the situation came laM night with the furmal announcement that
Germany-has semi-olhcially admitted that the steamer Arabia was sunk in the Mediterranean Sea by
n German submarine without warning.
This information has stirred olVicial Washington to'its depths, for it bids fair to throw open Once
more the who'e of the diver dispute and bring the two nations to the verge of open rupture once
more. It fs known. that President Wilson intents taking up the problem raised by the renewal 'of
the Mibmarine attacks by the German divers, but so far, though there are five cases pending, he .has
not taken any active step in the matter. , H.V
It is believed here that there is a possibility tint Germauy will make the Arabia a test case. "The
Arabia it was known was armdd for, defensive pur oscs when she was sunk, and it is reported in s(ate
department circles that the Berlin government is determined to make a fight 'ami a most hitter jine
against the present attitude of the United States which permits the army of merchant v essel! T-for
defense against submarines.
Recent despatches from Cairo, reported that two German submarines were seen bv persons on bdard
t,e Arabia, when that Peninsular and Oriental liner was sunk in the Mediterranean Monday November f
. . ., ,. . . , - . , . . . . '
a,,d " Of them, according to the steamers officers, was fired upon by gunners on the Arabia, after.the
liner ha(f been hit by a torpedo. r
Tht Arabia was struck aft, on the starboard side by the torpedo, which sank her. There was no
panic among the 437 passengers or the crew, who immediately took to the loats. The Arabia sank aivhour
and 'a half later. , ' ' .: ,
T)i City of farscilles and another steamer an I three trawlers picked up the survivors aflctvtftey
had bet'tvin the boats about an hour. The weather fortunately was very fine.
Germany has informed the American embassy in Berlin that the sinking of the British steamship Mari
na on October 2tf, with the loss of the lives of si American horse tenders, will be thoroughly investigated, as
coaii 1 mirttniir'inAQ ntnrnt iitrv Oval la ItiaiM vr. ri f fia -a e.v.i-t 1 l . - 1 - k
9rvia oii;iiniiiivi vjv si ij- yu iiimi
Thelnfonnation given the American embassy, it was said here, was to the effect that Germany, did
at believe tlie facts would be developed, similar to the published reports, that the Marina 'was torjicijoed ,
ithout, Warning, officials maintaining that Cermany has no intention of changing her methotls of stilna-
not
w
rine- warfare
LEAVES-HANKS OF NAVY
(AtioalaU Freaa by Fral Wlreleai.)
NKwT JfOKK, November 21 The
Cunard lifSr Cnrmauia, which wan tak
en ovor b the Britinh government im
mediately eftftcr the outbreak of the
war and, converted into an auxiliary
cruuer. ollder the ti'rum of the mall
contract wKicb tbo lino bad with the
goveruuieioY baa boon rulaaaed and
turned, bask iuto a merchant whip, Kb
reached thll port yenterday with pai-.
aehgtri aur cargo from Liverpool.
nortli of SaiUiael - v
wuiv jv i v, a- c 4 ji nu
Frost Damages Crop
of 'Louisiana Sugar
(AiieclaUd Frail by Fa'etal Wlitlanl
WAciHINOTON,. November SI
The crop eatiniutcii of the depart
ment of agriculture yeaterduy an
noitiiued thnt the big "freeae"- in
l.ouinitma hm cut down the cti
mated augar crop of that Htate at
least ten per cent, aeeordiag to the
roporti received here yeaterdny.
The f'reooe atruok the-Vane in the
Louisiana fluid on the night of No
vember 13 and Innted iuto tie early
morning xif November 1(1. The
Louiniana crop baa been edttmated
at between '..'50,000 and 200,000 tonn.
(-
-$
.';2lt- 19lV..SEMr'-VEF.KLY.
J:
-ye4
lia LMCC1I Fvl "IVCCI. '',''
TRAITORS TO AUSTRIA ;
T
(AiaodiUd Priu by Tidn-al Wtrelaei)
VIENNA, November L'l-The Und
welir court yenterdiiv refused to accept
tin- appenl for mercy which hud been
enteriMl by the uttoinevn for Ktahiurx
itonenhnin am) Vrinku Zuoiinol, in.
tented to ileuth on 11 e.huie of treftnvn,
It in deelured tlinl the men atteinjited
to form a rapprochement between Bo
ti - in i u nud ItuHnia. 11 ml n'.mt theyail
ed ill fhat that they liud ueted na
i wm .iii
1.
Congressman-eled )
Aeroplanes To ' A
National Capital
Piloted By Army Sergeant Bleak
Jey Files. From Philadelphia
Circles Washington Monument
and Alights Proud As He Can Be
(AMoHla4 rrma y rnl Wiraleaat
WASKlNOTON, ,.veiut.er L'l-On-prr-Mwrn-elfct
P.leaM.-y, of rbUudcl-'
phin, landed ftom an airni.Uoe here-
)t"tcrdoy aflortmi.n. h:iving aelectad r
that uieantc for nnikiiia the trio from'
b,HtTai!.rJlTi.,,w,i'ul fiftu'
liam Orker, of the I'ulted Stpte Armyi f 4
.tnn the tiip or mnrr Minn rw milet a I
the crow nit- tvni madi' in a tittle aver
twt hour.
The i!Ofirrrinnal etiKtnr tin da fine
Htup. Miming to eorlh at Haltimnra,
forty mile from Wnhintun. When
tho .aoj-oplnne reached thia eity tha
i Ho' i in Vd the W'uhhington Mnnumear
Im fore eominfi down. '
,'t'll hef I'm the firnt rongreanman
v ho ever came ln Vhingtrn by the
rir rente," (aid Rb-aklry to tha aewa
paper men;, ; - ' ' .
IIUU 1II.IWL
Members Of Body Hope To Make
DEADLOCK B
Progress Today ;3Vjdonra'ijront show that the iUliea
lAHeitM rtin av rrt Wtraleaa. '
aii.aiv lit ii 1 1 , nw waraayi
Noveuiler si The twemational. pe
comeiiiaKiiner-brhe-to be able to break
th ilendli.efc which hia tied tb pi"7v. ; wu irotu." , $ .
:e,;,u
te the I'nittd, Hfatee ud Miic; vK'Ver .to. the battle ncld. north
aw'.tiine toey. It was declared lastjUf Lnke Tresbi th; BuMars'lind '4'
Itight that tuelAmrrkan eomhUiOBer VV 'T?? Xff -.fHliar any ., .k
nte standing Mmly upon tha eoateni .hy;; vermin helpern are iri;fu)l ', -
&ia
ri.rht t.i mi it Hi r 4m nunt. aiui berbiafls. who are reiwicd t(l lw -
"-l!V
deiiriftti b it tK-jond the border Oa W
mKt. ; j r-V-:i
tl
i- . . "r, -V. ,''':' ''
Deals With Dome'sUd Problems
Largely Is Report ;
(AiucUltd Frta by FeaenU' Wtreleial
W AsiUNfiTHW. November El Tha
nn'ssuj;.' to congrraa 11 pun whifb Preai
(tent Wilson hni bean at work for Bom
time ix hIiuohi complete, arcordiag to
information given put t.tb Wkita
IIoiim,- -Hti-rday. It deal rbielly with
pun ly iloiui-ittie prohlenia, goiilg Into
det.iiU ivpaiding the railroad, conecrva
tion no. I toitupt prarra ifoblema) tod
lulling 1 1 the qucatlna of the, eoopera
tinn of .nirt t. He, atad t" jref otte.d
to iic i.hkIm.1 u(min the Porto Kiean
Hituuiioii and th have. made-1 number
of n 1 .iiiiiiien.latiatu . ttardlag tboa
IkIbiiiIm. . i 'a . '
VILL LIMIT PRACTISE
V.'i.vr.:H
(AtiucUte Vrf jr Federal W1le,t ;
W AsllINfiTO.N, Note'ef 'SO far.
get .nti tie in th I'oltetJ ptitea, navy,
thin winter wilt tie liid to Oral -line
hliiiH. Admiral Htrnuia, - chief . of th
i.rdiinine hirc(iu( iiifj.rnvrd lh ioute
utumitre on nAvnl ff(r todaf , that
thin in iliri cane becaua of fbortaae of
,"'" Mepa ar -beiar tk 4
'"'f "ul"'1- u"'lr
CdW7 inccc'efniniiri
lfra
lw.- ,
FRANZ JOSEF'S CONDITION. -
BULLETINED TO THE VATICAN
A.'ianit preu ay 'Federal Wlreleia)
IIE, Novcnibee Sl-t-Tb' Po,p 1
r4iu'iing iilmi.nt hourly - bulletin re
gvriliug the eonditl-,' .Kmpro(
Kihii .loHff, the rulff. A ait ro
ll uiinry, u ho hna been ill fir om
ti Tin- trouble wlth.bia iia.ie.iy
in nti ill to be h nligtf broncbi! -irritation,
whii h 1-Hn canned Slight rl uf
t"iii ( in t n 1 r- n rut ao' itfegiklar ' ptila.
Kin condition ia reported Bo Brtriou,
- -, t- ' " i , .
BRITISH MUST PAY MORE
FOR MORNING NEWSPAPER
(Aocitd preai by Tajlaral vrbaiaaa)
I.ONIiON, November eO-Benremnt-nui-.
of Hrtllih newapaporn today d
iiuil mi 11 nhlforiii rata' of half a
..'imy in the pi ii-e. of paper through
out tin. L-ouiitiy. ;
I UL0IULMI OIIILOOrtUL
ACK OF BLUEJACKETS
h 'VlfOLE Nt'MBpR 481 ' ;
aiwaiaBSIlalaaila1slakM -' -aahaaaaanaBnaaaaasaaak '
ALLIES STILL
I h iri ii f r : r n r n r r -1 :
i Vri r r.' a ty - m V
fl 1 LI
j . ... a aa iaig -.-.
1 if i tin n nrnhni h-v-
111 LlilktUUiJii
Mov North of Monastir Leaving
Burning Mine Wracked City Be-
' hind" Them' A ' They Foltovv
Flight of tho Retreating Teutons
CERMAM, REINFORCEMENTS
1 ARRIVE ON THC SOUf.tE
Yon, Falkenhayn Reported To Ba :,
Smashing the Rumanian Center;
. 'In With, His Sledge' Hammer V
; Blows and Menaces Bucharest
( Aeaaelatea fnu try Faaarai Wlraiaaa) '
J:;ie.,'rel)ort. from the Mace:
are continnliig their pursuit of th'n ;
btokeo- and fleeing German, ' and ,
Bulgar krmies, and that 1 they,;'
completed their Victory over' the.
' , . . ,. ,r,, . r7
andUttterl feirard-
PI then- ovtn. lives if they can -..- . '
huir makie flveir 'JriumpH iar tti
t.lM Serbs have' not as yet en- .
ered rinta; Moqastir, -for tliecity j
js reported ;to b. m hanies, k)d '
Siift (i(le45 wi'tV explfHlihg:. tniiieju
lefiiehind wbeil the Germans n)4
Bulg'anani W?re Vlrixen ' belter-'. '
skelter.outoUhe jlie AHc
however had; occupied ) a nuirV
ihf 0 tcVn jo the, north of the
btintib'cit v'-.'
' Another rejort rotn, the German
capital said yesterday that it is of
ficially announced' that the Teytonii 1
in Rumania iare' approacliing Crai-
ova, the capital' of . western Walla-'
chia, only 120 miles west of Bucha- .
rest. 'On this front the Teutons
j ire' sieadity: smashing ibeir way
forward. ;'V'i' ;'
inmno kan anwther story to tell of
Hie -fighting J th.Autbera Palkaa r
jrlon. .The report! from that city yea,
t-crdny aid that BjlreWna aewa fro. '
Rome derbire' that! tb'Oerma
Butgarlaa retreat It Macedonia baa aa
uaied b proporttoni of ,. dcbael ,
great miliary dUajiter, for th Central
Powe'r. The Oermaai Bad BulgarU
aoai. brettd', irom the Macedoai . liae
and , mad ta. tvaeuat ' ifnnkativ or
rasbtna .tuiek-ta & dirattio ojT Pri
bfp. :.,TlMi Kiitcnw forc or puriolog
tbeat' botly ad taklajr . villag aftr '
village. tvrtb of' Monaatlr, rapturiag
prlnoiuv' front the enemv. Th wir.
free' aaya that the Herbiaa have be
deliyd"froM 1 eatertng- Monaatlr b
ffU -1 fire And eiploalon have -vir. :.
tnally detroyd th elty. Th popula
ttntf tiarfied'-; .', - .,-' - .
' V Of tb SgHtlu'W th nterB, f rotrt
there'fwai , bur tittle to report. , The
BJ-lliab.attack ti th Apcr River nr
aid by the Ocrmaa general atatf to
hkvrbeen brekra dowa by .the termaa
artillery aad Infantry fir. Bad that th
Allied bffeaaly ther bad eoni to aa
fad; 'Tht German aeat relaforcvmoitt
to th aiItt(oce rf tb troopa attack
ri V tb Britl.h hiorth of Tblcpval,
aad. hay' "belled the lrltib in the vl
cinity of Beanwoat--Ilm ml O-ren-derur
heavily find with ieee la
I'ntur litancee. ,; la the regie of Dab
aumoof, tin the Yfdua nmt th artlb
lery of the TentoBa yeaterdav be gen
hrnv'y bomhardment but the frenrh r
ply la jHiid to ha V be iv effective ?nd
aueeeedej In ajleiirUg many of th Oer
men' batteriea., '! i, '.
The troop onfler tb f ittitmaiul- of
von Falkenhayn r reportexl to bo Con.
tinuing tbeir offeaalv agalnat the Rur
maniana what ar felling b-h from
their oeition ; la'TiaoeyKaaia. vom
falkeobaytv ia reported i b atmiag -at
Craiova B'ioiijt on the Onova Bu
rhareat railroad. ... i
.bnl
r "
