THE : ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORN I KG, NOVEMBER 21, 1910.
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 180
5
T
Pepublican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY. N. J., Nov. 20.
Luis Cabrera and his colleagues on the
Mexican-American Joint commission,
v ill he formally told tomorrow ly Sec
retary of the Interior Lane, chairman
of the American commission, on' just
what terms an agreement providing for
the withdrawal of the American puni
tive expedition and the protection of
life and property along the internation
al border may be reached.
Fortified by the assurance of Presi
dent Wilson that he will back the
American representatives in their ef
forts to reach a settlement of the ques
tions at issue between Mexico and the
United States. Secretary Lane re-i
turned here late today. He immediate- j
ly went into conference with lr. J. I-
Mott and Judge George Gray, the other
American commissioners, informing
them In detail of the conference he had
:it Washington Saturday with the pres
ident. The formal meeting with the
Mexicans will take place tomorrow.
The atmosphere of uncertainty and
even hopelessness which has been ap
parent for many weeks, was entirely
lacking tonight. The Americans ap
peared confident that the end of the
conference is in sight. Their proposi
tions have been reduced to writing and
it is understood will admit of little de
bate. The Mexicans appeared not to take a
pessimistic view of the situation, Mr.
Cabrera again assuring newspaper men
that he was very hopeful of an amic
able adjustment. There was no evi
dence, however, that he was prepared
to recede from his previous plan.
Whether Iwnaeio lionillas and Al
berto J. Pani, the other members of the
Mexican commission, were prepared to
stand by Mr. Cabrera could not be de
termined. They have 'been disMised of
late to agree w ith the Americans on the
plan suggested and it was the opposi
tion of Mr. Cabrera that prevented a
settlement. There was some reason
tonight to believe that Mr. Cabrera had
won them over to an agreement to
Mand with him.
"c r."" l"r
.'ir.MlU ll.-t V HI LUIHUlll (MM UHIt, 1 Hit I IM
ID
ILL
CHANCE ACT
new 10 mem. ,h r.liiroad men of the American
The question at issue is not the with- Federation of Labor,
drawal of General Pershing's troops. I .viin the emtriimcr.t attorneys. G.
They will be called back when the I t'uiroll Todd, assistant to the attor
American government is convinced I ney general; Assistant Attorney C.en-
that it can be done without jeopardiz- ,
ing the safety of the border. The more i appear in the federal court at Kansas latlon ghini; this power when ad
debatable question is the method of j City next Thursday to opKse th.- dressing c mgress on t threatenert
controlling the border after they have I Union Pacific ard Atchison. Topek.i strike, Vit the Georgia representative
been taken out. The Mexicans will not & Santa Fe -nits :t"nirm th Adam- raid he believed tin: president would
K- permitted to place restrictions on :'k. they iii le flanked rep- ugt'-c with him in the rnd.
the manner in which It may punish resenta'ives of the brotherhoods It is "I do not think then- Is anything in
marauding hands. ! prola-ile that the four brotherhood the tall; that the railroad men will
The Mexicans have objected seriously j heads themselves will tie there. Mes- call a strike if the right-hour law l-i
to art nowleilirini the riirhf of t h I'nit-I srs. Todd and Underwood left for pendi'ig In the courts," s.iid Ml. Ad-
ed States to send troops across the in
ternational boundary in pursuit of ban- I
dits but have been more insistent that
in case troops are sent they be moved
subject to certain restrictions. When
the Mexican commissioners leave here
it will be with the realization thai
American forces will be used to run
down any raiding band that crosses the
border into the United States regard
less of where they may have to go or
how long they may have to stay in
Mexico.
It was regarded here tonight as not
improbable that a delay might be
caused by the desire of the Mexicans
to communicate further with General
C'arranza. Mr. Cabrera said he and his
colleagues would report new develop
ments. If time is taken for the Mex
icans to report the new situation to
their chief and for him to reply, it is
possible nothing may be done until
Saturday.
o i
REGULATING PRICES
OF FOOD FOR J. B.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LON DON, Nov. 20. The board of
trade has begun work speedily und.-r
tho new food control regulations. Tw t
ordeig have been issued, which will
n. me into operation November 27,
dealing with wheat and milk. One
regulates the percentage of flour that
may be milled from wheat, varying
from the different qualities from r.a
to 3H per cent ami stipulates that af
ter January 1 only fiour made in ac
cordance with this percentage may be
used for the making of bread or ar
ticles of food.
The milk order fixes a maximum
price not exceeding the price that pre
vailed on November 15, or, alternat
ively that the price may not exceej
by more than a specified amount the
price which prevailed in the corres
ponding month before the war, this
ii mount being two pence a quart
This order makes the maximum price
Approximately six pence a quurt.
o
VILLA'S WIFE DIED.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire.1 '
F.L PASo, Nov. 20. Mrs. Juann.i
Torres de Villa, who claims to be th-:-second
wife of Francisco Villa, died
recently in Guadalapara, Mexico, ac
cording to a letter received here. Mrs.
Villa lived in Los Angeles, Cal.,
after Villa took the field as a bandit,
later coming here nt the time of the
Carrlzal affair in June. She was or
dered deported and left for Chihuahua
Citv. Mrs. I.uz Corral Villa, who
claims to be Villa's first wife, is now
understood to be in Havana. Cuba.
W. C. T. U. Commends Papers
Not Carrying Liquor Ads
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS, Nov. 20. The Na
tional Women's christian Temperance
T'nion, In annual session here today,
adopted a 'resolution commendin? the
fS0 newspaper! and 68 magazines in
the country known to refuse lienor ad
vertisements. The delegates pledged
themselpes to use their influence iq
every way possible in their respective
communities to get newspapers now
carrying such advertisements to drop
It at the expiration ( of present
contracts.
ORGANIZED LABOR IS
AGAINST INJUNCTION
TAKES STRONG STAND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Nov. 20. The organ
ized labor forces of the country today
avowed extreme hostility to the writ
of injunction as a means of stopping
a strike. First, a resolution wns
adopted unanimously at the morning
session of the convention of the Amer
ican Federation of Labor, urging or
ganized labor everywhere to make the
injunction question "the paramount
issue in all of their future political
activities."
A more radical step was taken at
the afternoon session when the com -
mittee on the executive coun "il's re-
port took up that feature of the re-
twirt dealing with the decision of the
Aiassaenusetis supreme coun ciassi-1
fying labor as property. The commit-
tee submitted and
the convention '
l.unanimouslv adopted a resolution '
"that any injunction dealing: with th?
relationship of employer and employe
and based on the dictum thai labor is
property, le disregarded; let the con-j
sequences be what they may."
The committees report follows
"It seems to be a settled purpose f The -Hunt il asked to be empowered
inter-stK antagonistic to the freedom to continue Its aid to the Massaehu
of men and women who labor, to netts uiate federation ii. the light.
BROTHERHODD CHIEFS SEETHE
PRESIDENT REGARDING HGHI
STARTING ON EIGHT HOUR LAW
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 'plans for railroad legislation fully
WASH INGT IN. Nov. Meads of with the president. Alterward he Raid
the railroad employes' hi otherhoods that he had no doubt that the eight
wbo are determined that the Adamson hour law would le upheld by the
eight-hour law shall not be broken courts as constitutional, adding that
down, conferred here today with Pres- the measure was very carefully fram-
ident Wilson. Attorney General Greg-
j ory and their legislative rcpresenta
t tives; declared their purpose to aid
i the governmr.t in every way in fight-
and made further plats for perfect.!!-;
unrl.inv 'itTnmiin! with tbiir illiiiw
era l'n;1rvood and Flank Hagerman
Simiifi. apce is attached to the fact
that the brothei iiood heeds w ill ad- opinion, aid that no man oi body of
dress the American Federation of l.a- men car afford to do."
bor convention in lialtimore tomorrow. Mr. A.iiimscn nNo declared it waa
N-ver before ia the historv of the his w-rson.". opinion that the soils to
two organiz itions have any of thejr test the constitutionality of the eight-mem.-ers
met in Joint session, but hovr law .veie brought in a further
their meeting at llaltirr.ore will be the efiort to secure advance in freight
result of a carefullv worked out aeree- rates and that if any definite assur
ment tiiat the two forces shall join ent or of increased rates were given
hands In working for the genel twt- the cases would not be pressed,
terment of the organized railway em-j The brotherhood heads, still quite
plove-... 1 as uncommunicative and mysterious
After receiving the brotherhood as they were at the time of the con
heads and chairman Adamson, author ferem es w lucii resulted in enactment
of the eiglTT-hour law. President Wil- ' f the Adamson law, appeared well
son virtually finish-d his message fv pleased with the situation tonight,
eongres i- which he will recommend They were particularly elated over
ompetition of the railway legislative their talk with the president, and the
program outlined by him at the last prnsnects of addressing members of
seislon. The recommendations in- the Federation In lialtimore tomorrow,
elude .provisions for th? enlargement "Of course, we paid nothing to the
of t;e interstate commerce commis
sion t-nd f ir compulsory Investigation
of proposed atrikes. The latter is bit
terly opposed by the brotherhood
iosders.
Brotherhood representative may
appear before the committee later, but
so fur have not indicated forma. lyi
tneir intention to ao so.
President Wllon told members of a
committee of the Kvansville. Ind..
chamber of commerce, who called
(luring the day to tell him there would
be a middle states conference on the
railroad situation. In their city1 early
in ivceml.er, that he hoped there
would he similar discussions of the
problem in other sections of the
United States and that he wished all
business men would investigate the
'luestion In an ocn-minded wt-y.
After their fifteen-minute confer
ence with the president the brother
hood heads would admit only that
they had congratulated Mr. Wilson ou
his re-election. W. S. Stone, head ol
the engineers, declared that h could
not t-ll now whether a strike would
be called If the eight-hour law was
not put into effect January 1.
Representative Adamson went ovei
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Nov. 20. American
aviators fighting with the French
forces on the western front have
brought down a total of 21 German
aeroplanes, according to Lieutenant
The L'nion also went on record us
favoring living wages and equal pay
tor equal services, and as believing In
Justice as opposed to commercial
greed.
The principal weaker today was An
thony Camlnetti of the l-nited States
bureau of immigration who reviewed
the activities of the employment bu
reau conducted by the federal E-overn-
ment. The business program for to
morrow Includes the election of offi
cers, hut it has been a custom for
years to re-elect the same persons.
1 AVIATORS HAVE BEEN
nninn nnriT niininr niwn thiiii
yyinibbHtfli mmm iHinriimiliiTn
persuade, and then use the Judiciary
to misconstrue constitutional guaran
tees and thereby nullify legislative
enactments, so as to leave but one
remedy; and we, therefore, recommend
that any injunctions dealing with the
re'ashionshlp of employer and em
ploye and based on the dictum 'later
is property' be wholly and absolutely
regarded lis usurpation and dlsre
garded; let the consequences be what
j they may. Such decisions a the one
, rendered by the supreme court of ill-?
'state of Massachusetts has its ro its
in class Interests; it is usurpation
: and tyranny. Freedom came to mm
because he believed that resistance to
tyranny is obedience to God. As it
came, t.o it must be maintained. Kinjts
coma o- unu were uisoucjeu mri
sometimes deposed. In cases of this
kind, judges must be disobeyed ana
should be impeached
The executive council's report, the
adoption of which the committee ivc-
ommended, the convention concurring,
dealt tit length with the Massuehu-
i sens lane, uiutciiii uiv conns unu
I ! .. tk.-..., ... I 1..
s.iyiim turir rrrniru i in- 1111 itiih-vij'
! ly 1'iwyers fully familiar with the
situation um1 with the constitution,
"I have r hill firenarei. for itiMi
tir.iml I-.fislitUn to meet the Hitua-
hich I jrrhably wilt irtruriu.-e
a 'MK ! fiinrfM convenes, lie
Jlo 'trilled thai he believed th? intr
f tate romiii'-n e (mnmlfHion. under ex
isting laws, already had the iwer to
tak wisfs into ?onHider;tion in fix
ins freight rales. President WHnon
cm lodicd recommendation for leas
tinning directly c-ntrarv to public
president, but a few words about his
he-election," W. O. Lee, head of the
trainmen, said wltn a laugh. "Nat
uially, coming from Ohio as I do. I
had some things to wv a.;out how
Ohio came to go democratic as largely
as it am.
No agreement exists bctwsen tl.
brotherhoods and the federation lead-
era that an effort would be made to
! bring all railroad workers under an
! eljrht-hour law, Mr. Lee declared. He
'said the conferences which led to an
alliance b?iven the organization?
were productive only of an agreement
to work for the general betterment of
the conditions among all organized
railroad workers.
The conference at the department ut
lustice today followed issuance of or
der from the Itrotherhood heads to
their officers In every city where a
suit has beeg filed-to be of nil possi
ble assistance to the government at
t;rneyi. While no details were forth
coming a to what was discussed to
day. It wan understood that the broth
thord leaders explained many Intri
cate features of their present wage
(Continued on Page Two)
VMinnm Thaw, a member . of the
Franco-American aviation corns, who
arrived here today on the steamship
La Touralne for a three weeks' visit
among relatives. Lieutenant Thaw waa
accompanied by C. C. Johnson, also
an American aviator, whose home Is
In New York.
"Regulations of the French army for
fid us talking of our work," Lieutenant
Thaw said. "My personal part in the
fighting has been told in the cable
dispatches and one of the 21 German
machines brought down Is credited to
me. We heard nothing before leaving
France regarding the request of the
American governmenttft drop the name
American from the' h ranco-American
cor is. All of ub have sworn ullegiancc
to li e hrench government
Mr. Johnson said that for some, time
the work of American aviators has been
confined fo scouting flights. Unth of
the aviators talked with Norman
Prince just prior to his eoliur nn what
! proved to be his last flight. They said
that he volplaned back to the French
line after an air engagement and in
alighting his machine struck some tele
graph wires, turning over and Prince
received injuries which resulted In his
death.
WILL APPEAR AT
INVESTIGATION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. ZD. What is
the matter with the railroads anil
what k'nd of legislation congress
might enact to bettor conditions will
ho pictured to the Joint congressional
committee Investigating transportation
problems beginning Thursday by the
executives of some of the greatest
systems in the country.
The investigating committee held its
first session today, heard an opening
statement by its chairman, Senator
New-lands, and received notice of ap
pearunces from nearly lot public util
ities companies, state railway com
missions, commercial and industrial
organizations and shippers and indi
viduals. Few who noted appearance.
seem-d ready to open the hearings
vith testimony and in executive ses
sion tonight tiu- committee decided to
hear the railroads first. The railroad
executives' advisory -'ommittee, com
posed of more than a dozen heads of
important svstems, was advised and
it l,s expected that most of its members
will teslify l.cfore the railroad side
is idiiii et-,-!y lold.
The committee decided, to bold hear
ings each weekday from 10 a. in. to
l::bi p. m.. 'idv to give the olfieiai
reporters time to keep the record up
to date for the committee and for the
witnesses. No decision was reached
as to what witness will be called
when the railroads conclude. Repre
sentatives of the American Telephone
and Telegraph company, the Western
I nion Telemaph compnny and sev
eral of tiie big express t companies
were present and will be heard before
the .committee reirts.
The. lailroad phase of the investt
Ka:ion ip expected to t;-ke most of the
'ornniiftce'ff time, but under the reso
lution whi.-h created it, its invest i
ifations ere to extend to all such pub
lic utilities.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON Nov. 20. Announce
ment by the semi-official Overseas
New s Agency that a German submarine
sank the British liner Arabia maue a
deep impression In official quarters
here today, and apparently removed all
fNiFaibility that this case might take
its place with that of the Persia, sunk
in the Mediterranean long auo in some
manner never cleared up. The Urilish
admiralty said the Persia was torpe
doed without warning, but none of
the central powers would admit re
Fpousibility for it.
Officials were loath to discuss the
matter in the absence of official In
formation, which, it is understood, is
being sought from air sources. Some
of them expressed surprise, however,
'hat the attack upon the Arabia had
been scmi-officlally admitted. It was
suggested that the Overseas dispatch
mitht mean that Germany was pre
paring to make a ttst in this of the
"armed ship" controversy with the
I'nited Suites or that in some way a
minor official, hostile to Chancellor von
iiethmann-Hollweg's submarine policy,
might have allowed the dispatch to get
out. seeing in it an opportunity to
force the issue. It has been known
here for some tim mat Germany
would make a bitter fight against the
defective arming of merchant ships.
The contention that the Arabia was
an armed transport because he cur
ried a. fifteen centimeter gun and had
workmen and war munitions aboard is
not.regaried here as being Justified in
the slightest degree. The shin was a
Penlnaular and Orient passenger liner
with many passengers aboard. There
was one American, on his way to IrV
dia. He' has made an affidavit which
has been forwarded to the state de
partment.
bo far as can be learned the depart
ment ha heard nothing in reply to its
request for Germany's version of the
sinking of the Uritish steamer Marina,
on which six Americans lost their
live, nor haa sufficient official evi
dence been received to warrant action
In any of tt)e other pending cases.
ANOTHER BOAT GONE.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Nov. 20. A Copenhagen
dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph
company says the government has re
ceived a telegram that the .Norwegian
steamer Joachim Brinch Lund has
been torpedoed. Up to the present
there has been no report of the rescue
of the crew. The steamer measured
1,0'iO tons.
A life boat hearing the name of the
steamer containing the body of a sea
man has been found in Falmouth bay
LEAVE AT ONCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW LONDON, Conn., Nov. 20.-
Freed from legal entanglements which
have accumulated since she sank one
of her convoying tugs in the Race
last Friday, the German merchant sub
marine Dcutschland was preimredNto
night to resume her interrupted voyage
to Bremen. While officials of the
Kastern Forwarding company were as
aecretive as usual concerning plans,
there were strong indications that the
submarine was to steal Tut to sea with
in the next 24 hours.
Iron bars have been riveted cross
wise in her bow, however, as a precau
tion against possible damages that do
not appear on the surface.
Captain Koenig discarded civilian
dress tonight and wore his naval uni
form. Shore leave was denied to the
Doutschlund's crew ant sailors nn the
North German Lloyd liner Willehad
wer not allowed to.leavUie pier.
SERINS TAKE
BlIE FORTH
ARABIA SINKING
i .leavjjlp j,ie
Rumanians' End Near
As Teutons Drive At
Communication Lines
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
With the end of the first stage of
the Franco-Serbian campaign, which
resulted in the evacuation of Monastir
by the liulgarians and Germans, and
a diminution of hostilitiea In the
Somme region of France, except for
bombardments and isolated infantry
action, Rumania has again become the
center of interest.
Driving eastward through western
Wallachia, the Anstro-German forces
now are reaching out for Craiova, ly
ing on the railroad midway between
the Danube town of Orsova Hungary,
and I'uchaiu.st. This maneuvre ap
parently places! a menace in the rear
to the retreat of the Rumanians fight
ing in the north on Hungarian soil and
disputing with the Austro-Germans
the pasages of the Transylvanian
Alps leading to the plains of Wal
lachia. In the Jiul valley region, the retire
ment of the Rumanians continue, anil
in the Cumpulung sector I'etrogr.sd re
ports 'hat further Rumuian attacks
againav the Teutonic allies have been
unsuccessful, on the 'lanube front in
Dobrudja artillery, engagements are in
proirress from Silistria to oltina.
The fighting in Macedonia from the
Cerna river to Lake Presl.a has ended
in a complete victory for the entente
allied troops, says the Paris war of
fice. The Serbs have not yet entered
Monastir. captured Sunday, the town
haying lioen virtually destroyed, ac
cording to unofficial accounts. The en
fepuhlicar A. P. Leased Wirel
M.BCy L'KRQl'E, N. M.. Nov. 20.
That the amount of money authorized
tor loans is not nearly sufficient .for
igricullunil interests even at prevail-
ng Interest rates and that present
rates are higher than those expected
from farm loan banks were high lights
in the case made today by New Mex
ico tefore the federal firm loan board.
Witnesses said the establishment of a
arm loan bank would aid greatly in
the agricultural development of the
state.
The; board heard 20 witnesses who
represented every section of the state
and almost every county. George W.
Norria. farm loan commissioner, pre
sided in the absence of Seeretary Wil
liam G. McAdoo. The beard left here
it 10 ; 3n o'clock tonight for Amarilio.
Texas.
The statement was made by one of
the party that the board expected to
anonunce its decision as to the location,
of the twelve banks shortly after its
return to Washington.
Amarilio Next
AM A RI LLC). Texas. Nov. 20. The
our other members of the federal farm
loan board will come here tomorrow to
consider placing a farm loan bank in
this city.
It will be a gala dav in Amarilio.
Twenty thousand visitor from the
Texas Panhandle, Western Oklahoma
ind Kastern New Mexico are expected.
Representative farmers and businesx
men will meet the farm loan boare
ind set forth the claims of this regiufn
for the proposed institution.
The board consisting bf Mr. McAdoo,
ex-offl.:io chairman, George W. Norris,
harlea E. Iotidell. W. S. S. Smith and
Herbert Quick, expect to spend w-ven
ind one-half hours here, arriving from
Phoenix. Artifcma soon afterwards and
'eaving at night for Memphis.
The visitor will be auests of Mayor
T. N. Keasley at a luncheon and later
hey will be invited to attend a "Jolli
fication celebrating the re-eleotlon of
President Wilson, conducted under the
tusplces of Panhandle Democrats. An
old time anvil firing" will be a fea
ture of the celebration. The guests of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FORT MADISON. Ia,, Nov. 20. A
special train of four cars will leave
here within thirty-six hours to tour the
entire system of the Atchison, Topeka
and Santa Fe railroad to fumigate and
disinfect every bunk car and bunk
house used by Mexican section bunds
In an effort to prevent the spread of
typhus fever, it was announced by rail
road officials late today. Four iiersons
In Fort Madison are suffering from
typhus, brought here by a 'Mexican
section hand. One person has died
from the disease.
Dr. J. P. Kaster of Topeka. Kaa., and
Dr. F. M. lioyd of the Iowa state board
of health, will be in charge of the train,
it was ."aid. and every Mexican section
hand would be bathed in disinfectant.
At a conference, presided over by
Dr. Boyd late today, city and county
health officers and railroad officials
were told the danger of typhus epi
demic lurked In the bunk houses of
Mexicans and that contagion through
vermin was a possibility.
State and federal authorities recom-
-D
NC CHANGE IN CALIFORNIA
I
I
I SACRAMENTO, Cal., Nov. 20. I
I Semi-official returns from four I
I counties were rendered official by I
I the canviss conducted today in the I
I office of Secretary of State Frank j
C. Jordan, leaving only twelve i
I counties to be heard from. These i
I include the largest counties of the
i stat" rnd more than half the votes I
1 still to be canvassed not later than
I Monday, November 27, the date
I fixed by- law. I
I No errors in the count of votes j'.
I for presidential electors have "been I
I found. I
a
in mm wilson completes
mm
OF NEW BIS
SANTA EE TAKES DRASTIC STEPS
TOSTOPTYPHUSAMOHG LABORERS
tente forces have occupied villages to
the north of the town and are declared
to be still in pursuit of the Germans
and Hulgarians. Kerlin says, however,
that the newly chosen positions se
lected for their retirement north of
Monastir have been entered by the
Germans and Bulgarians without
pressure from their antagonists, and
also that new German fon-es have
I reached the fighting zone.
1 he German artillery on te Somme
front near Heaumont-H ,mel and
on the Verdun sector near liouamont
have heavily shelled Jiritish and
French positions.
Strung forces of Austrians in an as
sault on the summit hill 12B on tha
Carso front of the Italian theater have
captured Italian entrenchments.
'"old weather has set in on the Rus
sian front and as a consequence little
fighting is going on there.
Diplomats Departed
LONDON, Nov. 21. Reuter's Ath
ens correspondent, under date of No
vember 20, t-ays that Vice Admiral Du
Fournet has notified the Austrian,
German, Bulgarian and Turkish minis
ters to Greece that they must go
aboard a steamer which has been
placed at their disposal, otherwise
thev will be taken forcibly.
The American legation, the corre
spondent adds. has nmlertukan tha
! protection of the Austrians. Turks and
nuigars in Greece, while the Spanish
legation will take charge of Germany's
interest.
MESSAGE HE WILL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. '20. President
Wilson practically completed his next
annual message to congress today and
Plans to put the finishing touches on
it tomorrow. It will be devoted almost
entirely to domestic matters and will
deal primarily with legislative ques
tions recommended to congress and not
finally settled.
Tho principal items in the message
are understood to be railroad legisla
tion io meet tiie situation created by
tho threatened railroad strike last
August; a measure, o a I low Amorioon
exporters to form common selline
:igencies abroad; conservation bills; a
corrupt practices measure and the Por
to Rico bill.
Governor Arthur Yager of Porto Ri
co was at the White House today dud
expects to see the president within a
Tew days to urge that action on the
Porto Rko bill 1 taken before the
usual Christmas recess of congress
Governor Yager said that until the bil.
is passed giving citizenship to Portr
Kicans, agitation for the independent--.
oi me Mianu will continue.
TORPEDOED.
Republican A. P. Leased. Wire
Halifax, n. s., Nov. 20. woij
Vas received from London today that
the overdue Furness line steamer
Rappahannock had been sunk bv a
German submarine. No word ha been
heard of Captain Garrett and his crew
of forty men and the fear was ex
pressed that they had perished. The
Rappahannock sailed from this port
for Liverpool October 19 and for ten
days has been posted as missing. The
cable said that word of the steamers
loss came from Rerlln.
honor probably will be asked to par
ticipate? In the program.
Leaders of the movement to secure
a farm loan bank for Amarilio are
confident their hopes will be attained.
The territory to be served exceeds that
of the New F.ngland states nd has a
population of a half a million.
mended that immediate and vigorous
action be taken to prevent the spread
of the disease.
The train wilt carry a large onrps of
doctors and nurses, who, it was said,
would be provided with rubber suits to
wear while disinfecting the Mexican
quarters. Four tank cars filled with
disinfecting fluid will be carried with
the train.
Switchmen by the
Thousand Killed
and Maimed 1915
rtepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire '
NEW YORK, Nov. 20. Government
statistics dealing with accidents to
switchmen and yardmen employed by
the railroads of the country were pre
sented as evidence late today at the
hearing before the board of arbitration
in the controversy between the Switch
men's Union and 13 railroads in regard
to the eight hour day.
It was shown that 2,243 switchmen
and yardmen had been killed and in
jured In the months of July, August
and September, 1915. A table based
on these figures gave 9,732 killed and
injured for a year, or about one man
in five among the 45,000 switchmen
and yardmen In the United States.
The number of killed was placed
at 256.
After the case for the switchmen
had been closed, W. H. O'Keefe, as
sistant general superintendent of the
Michigan Central railroad, the first
witness tor the railroads, asserted that
an eight-hour -day is unworkable.
SEi TO CONGRESS
NAVY PREPARES
TO SPEND RUGE
SUMS ON SRIPS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
"WASHINGTON. Nov. 20. While
Secretary Daniels was awarding con
tracts today for armor plate, lor the
four battleships authorized at the last
ession of congress and approving plans
for an ammunition ship, the last vessel
designed for the 1917 building pro
gram, the appropriations sub-committee
of the house naval committee be
gan work on the J9I8 estimates, the
heaviest in American history, to be
presented to congress this winter.
The navy department's 191H figures
contemplate construction of half of the
ships yet to be built in the great three
year program, and they show total ap
propriations of $379,151,701, or m-re,
than $06,000,000 in excess of the record
total appropriated last summer.
Contracts for the armor plate, which
will go on the battleships Colorado,
Maryland, Washington and West Vir
ginia were awarded the P.ethlehem and
Carnegie Steel companies, each receiv
ing half of the work. A statement
analyzing the contracts says that tie
spite the unprecedented Kuropean de
mand for plate, the pices offered were
approximately the same as those paid
three years ago, when the Pennsylvania
was being constructed. The figures
are: Armor plate, class A-l, l-M'9.2
tons to each company at $420 a ton to
Bethlehem and $425 to Carnegie; si)
tons of A-2 class to each at $485 to
Bethlehem and $426 to Carnegie, and
602 tons, class B- at $4i6 a ton to
P.ethlehem and $460 to Carnegie.
The department estimates before the
house sub-committee call for funds to
begin construction of three battleships,
one battle cruiser, three scout cruisers.
. destroyers, four fleet submarines, 14
coast submarines, one submarine tend
er and one destroyer tender. ft is
understood that the navy general board
urged that the two battle cruisers re
maining on the three-year program and
four of the six battleships be placed in
the 1918 estimate. The department de
cided, however, to divide the new con
struction equally between the 191S vl
1919 bills.
Rear Admiral Strauss, chief of ord
nance, appeared before the sub-committee.
Explaining an increase of
$1,500,000 for fleet ammunition he said
the cost of projectiles and other ord
nance material had increased so much
since congress provided $13,000,000 for
the purpose last year that the addi
tional sum was needed. Prices of small
shells, he said, were going down, in
dicating a decreasing demand from Eu
rope: but large shells of the 14-inch
size used by the navy, showed a 20 per
cent increase over last years quota
tions. Admiral Strauss also outlined the de
partment's scheme for storing in navy
yards guns and ammunitions with
which to equip merchant steamers and
naval auxiliaries in time of war. More
than $3,000,000 for the purchase of
guns and mountings for this purpose
was provided last year, and this year
the department seeks $1,500,000 for
ammunition.
The department also has recom
mended the installation of anti-aircraft
guns at naval stations, magazines and
mum cuxLioiis, me pending esLllltaiea
providing $1,000,000 for this purpose.
It will take more than 100 of the navy's
three-inch, 50-calibre guns for this
punaise.
Admiral Strauss said the naval ttun
factory was now producing torpedoes,
the first deliveries, however, exceed
ing in cost the prices quoted by private
manufacturers. It is expected that the
factory will get its cost considerably
below the commercial rate with its next
delivery. At present the cost of manu
facture is in excess of quotations of by
$600 to $1,700 per torpedo, depending
upon the system of calculations em
employed. At the Newport station,
where the bulk of the navy's torpedoes
are produced, the admiral said the cost
of production was from $l.u00 to $2,100
below the prices obtainable from pri
vate manufacturers.
Admiral Strauss will appear before
the committee again tomorrow and w ill
be followed by other bureau chiefs, and
finally by fcieeretary Daniels and mem
bers of the general board.
The ammunition ship, for which the
secretary approved plans, is the first,
craft of the kind ever designed for the
navy. It will have a displacement of
10,000 tons with cargo of powder and
shells. Special facilities are provided
for handling explosives aboard.
Secretary Daniels said today he had
arranged to confer with representatives
of the Electric Boat company in an
effort to seek modifications of their
pending submarine bids.
DIXIE FLYER JUMPS TRACK
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., Nov. 20.
Three trainmen were injured tonight
when the Dixie Flyer, Chicago to
Jacksonville, Fla., jumped the track
on the Nashville, Chattanooga X- St.
Louis railroad near Wauhatchie, Tenn.
No passengers were hurt. Six of the
ten cars left the track, but none
turned over. Spreading rails caused
the wreck, officials said.
Soldiers Quarrel
One Dies Result of
Blow on the Head
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Nov. 20. Private Wil
liam Mansfield Brazier, aged 20, liat
tery A. First Alabama field artillery,
died Sunday at the base hospital in
Camp Harry J. Jones, from injuries re
ceived when he was struck on the head
with a stick of wood Thursday niirht
by l'rivate II. C. Williams of the same,
bat tery.
The unofficial versiora of the afl'air
related at the camp was that both men
were in the guard house for trivial of
fenses, lirazier, demanded that Wil - ,
liams lend him a dollar and upon Wil- '
liams refusing, started toward him
with an open knife, threatening to kill
him. Williams then picked up a large
piece of wood and struck lirazier in
the forehead.
Williams is under arrest pending the
outcome of the investigation.
Hrazier's body was sent to Rirming- .
ham, Ala., today for interment.
