1 Way's Prices A fj &f iW vV1" 4 P- M. CITY EDITION ! f 1
: 12.50; copper, $31.00, $32.60, $33.00 v a ' 71, 17 lj
j 33.50. T Asl ' WEATHER Utah: Fair Today; Colder
I ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, ' ; : H
I ; Forty.th Year-No. 289. Price Five Cent,. - OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 21, 1916. Entered as Second-Claao Matter at th e Pctofflee. Oflden, Utah," H
Entente Allies in Full Pursuit of I
i Fleeing German and Bulgar Forces I
I RUMANIANS ARE IN RAPID
1 RETREAT BEFORE TEUTONIC
INVADERS IN WALLACHIA
t
.1
'i -
j Move Made to Prevent Armies Being Cut Off
Russians Arrive in Time to Strengthen
Rumanian Defense.
1 By bold and rapid strokes the Teu-
tonic invaders apparently have con
t quered a large section of northwest
J ern "Wallacbia from the Rumanians.
J Petrograd's official bulletin today
announces a Rumanian retirement in
j this part of the battle front to tho
j region of Filliash, forty miles nortb
.( west of Craiova. Judging from the ro
ll cent reports of the operations, this
means that converging attacks by
Austro-German forces moving south
ward in the JIul valley and eastward
: along the railway from Orovosoasv
I compelled the Rumanians to withdraw
from the Orsova region and execute a
rapid retreat in the JIul valley. This
move wa made, it appears, to prevent
) the retreat of their armies from be
ing cut off.
Whether even the rapid retreat in
dicated has beentin time to save the
Rumanian armies in this region is ren
dered doubtful by the German an
nouncement that Teutonic troops are
now before Craiova. The railroad
running through Craiova to Bucharest
affords the only convenient line of re-
; lirement for the Orsova and Jiul val-
j ley armies. While the Rumanians evi
dently have reached the junction
point of the Jiul valley road with the
main line at Filliash, the loss of
; Craiova, would 'effectually bar their
way eastward except across country.
Further eastward in Wallachia tho
arrival of Russian troops seems to
have strengthened the Rumanian de
fense. Tho Russians took the offen
sive north of Campulung, according to
Berlin, but were repulsed. Thl Ru
manians are resisting persistently
in the Alt valley, south of Rothen
thurra pass but nevertheless were
compelled to yield important positions
to General von Falkenhayn's troops.
; Entente Allies Continue Pur6Ult.
In the other chief field of present
military activity, the Macedonian
front, French and Serbian troops are
continuing their pursuit of the Ger
man and Bulgarian forces which evao
uated Monastir under entente pres
i sure. Berlin reports the entente ad-
vance here as a "feeling out" of the
t Germano-Bulgarian positions by rec- j
i onnoltering detachments. The new
line is indicated by press dispatches
to lie about seventeen miles north-
ward of Monastir and is reported t6
bo strongly entrenched and defended
in part by fresh German forces.
) East of the Monastir region Berlin
declares Serbian attempts to advance
'" were repulsed. West of Monastir the
Italians, according to Paris, repulsed
a counter attack.
On the Somine and Ancre fronts in
: northern France, the fighting has
i been confined to artillery engage
h ments.
Entente Alltel Pressing Bulgars.
'. Paris, Nov. 21. Troops of the allies are
pressing the Germano-Bulgarian rear guard de-
tachments to the north or Monastir. according
' to the official announcement on the progress
; of hostilities in the Orient given out by the
French war office this afternoon.
? Italian forces have repulsed a counter at
tack to tho west of Monastir. French troops
I ': have occupied the village of Kroni, west of
1 , Monastir on Lake Presba.
The communication follow:
"Army of the Orient, November 20: To the
1 north of Monastir rear guards of the enemy,
supported by strong detachments of artillery,
I arc being strongly pressed by the allied
ft troops.
I "To the west of Monastir, Italian forces
have repulsed a violent counter attack deliv
ered by detachments of the enemy from the
mountainous region of Muza, seven miles
i , southwest of Monastir.
I ' "We have occupied the village of Krani on
- the eastern bank of Lake Presba."
Severe Fight in Progress,
.j London. Nov. 21, 12:30 p. m. Continuing
r their pursuit of the defeated German and Bul-
garian troops on the Macedonian front, the
!. Serbians have captured several villages and
I taken a great number of prisoners. Cute s Sa
;loniki correspondent reports. The German and
Bulgarian troops have received reinforcements
and are offering severe resistance.
The dispatch which was filed at Saloniki
(yesterday, says the Serbians have captured the
villages of Makovo, Orahovo, Vranovtsi, Ri
barlsi, Bilyanik, Novak and Suhodol. all west
and northwest of Monastir. In addition to
many prisoners, the Serbians are said to have
taken three field guns, a considerable number
of machine guns and a great quantity of other
war materials.
Athens, Nov. 20, 3:45 p. m., via Lon
don, Nov. 21, 6:06 a. m. The crown
: council has decided in principal to re
fuse to surrender the arms and mu
; nitons of Greece to the allies, as de
manded by Vice Admiral Du Fournot,
'the commander of the allied fleet.
. King Constantino, on leaving the
Iflalace after the meeting, was cheered
,t' a crowd which was waiting the
conference's decision. It Is understood
that Premier Lambros will remain in
power for the present.
Rumanians Are Retiring.
Petrograd, Nov. 21. Via London,
2:10 p. m. The Rumanian forces in
southwestern Rumania have retired In
the face of Austro-German attacks to
tho region of Filliash (Filiachu, 40
miles northwest of uraivo), according
to an official statement Issued today
by the Russian war department.
The official statement follows.
"Rumanian front: In Transylvania
In the Alt valley the enemy continued
his attacks with the usual force. Un
der pressure of the enemy the Ru
manian trooops nre retiring slowly
southward.
"In the JIul valley the Rumanians,
under the pressure of superior enemy
forces, retired to the region of Fil
liash. "Danube front (Dobrudja): The
situation is unchanged."
Coercion Is Necessary.
Amsterdam, via London, Nov. 21,
5:10 a. m. The German papers print
a second letter addressed by Field
Marshal von Hindenburg to Chancel
lor von Bethmann-Hollweg emphasiz
ing Tiis belief that a certain amount;
of coercion is necessary for the solu
tion of the food, war material and
working power problem. As a result
of the field marshal's first letter deal
ing with these questions the German
economic council has issued an appeal
to the farmers to use their-utmost ef
forts in the production of foodstuffs.
Serbian Attempt Defeated.
Berlin, Nov. 21. (By wireless to Say
ville.) Attempts of Serbian troops to
advance In the Moglenica region of
the Macedonian front yesterday were
defeated, it is announced officially. In
the Monastir district the entente
troops are still advancing.
The statement says that the Teu
tonic troops are now before Craiova.
The official statement reads:
"Between Presba lake and tho Cer
na the enemy Is feeling his way with
his advance guard towards the Ger
man and Bulgarian positions.
"Serbian advances at some points
along the Moglenica front, prepared
for by heavy fire, failed.
"On the inundated Struma plain
there have been engagements between
reconnoiterlng detachments."
Russian Troops Repulsed.
Berlin, Nov. 21. (By wireless to Say
ville.) German and Austro-Hungarian
troops, which are invading Rumania,
repulsed several attacks by Russian
troops north of Campulung last night.
The official statement follows:
"Eastern Transylvania Only minor
fighting took place. German and Austro-Hungarian
troops north of Cam
pulung repulsed several Russian night
attacks.
"On tho Alt river some Important
towns and entrenched heights were
captured by us from the Rumanians
in sever struggles.
"Our Infantry stands before Craiova
which until now has been the seat of
the chief command of the First Rus
sian army.
"Front of Field Marshalvon Mack
ensen Nothing important occurred
with the exception of artillery en-rrappmrmts-
flnnatanza and Tchorna-
voda were shelled.
"Our air squadrons bombarded a
transportation establishment near Bu
charest." Germans Shell British.
London, Nov. 21, 12:15 p. ra. "Dur
ing the night our line was heavily
shelled southwest of Grandcourt,"
says today's official statement from
tho French front. "To the right of
our new front a hostile patrol fell into
our hnnds.
"Enemy trenchos were successfully
raided at Gomercourt and in the neigh
borhood of Rocllncourt and Ypres."
AJliea Shelf German Positrons.
Berlin, Nov. 21. (By wireless to Say
vllle.) The German positions on both
sides of the Ancre and in tho St.
Pierre-Vaast wood were shelled heav
ily by the allies yosterday, tho war of
fice announces. There was a revival
of artillery activity In the Champagne.
The statement follows:
"Army group of Crown Prince Rup
precht Our artillery was in action
against hostile batteries and points of
support. The effects of the bombard
ments wore visible.
"A lively hostile fire was directed
against our positions on both sides of
the Ancre and on St. Pierre-Vaast
wood. There were no infantry engage-1
ments.
"Army group of the German crown
prince In the Champagne and In the
Meuse sector (Verdun) artillery activ
ity was revived for a few hours yes
terday." Entente Makes New Demands.
Berlin, Nov. 21. (By wireless to Say
ville.) It is reported from Switzer
land that new demands have been pre
sented to the Swiss government by the
entente powers. Swiss press dis
patches, as quoted by tho Overseas
News agency, say that large quantities
of food and other supplies are being
hold up in Italian and French ports
pending Switzerland's compliance with
the demands which are characterized
by the Bund of Berne as "something
unheard of In tho memory of man,"
and as "treatment which no ono can
endure."
Steamship Is Torpedoed.
Athens, Monday, Nov. 20. Via Lon
don, Nov. 21, 1:20 p. m. The Spetzaos
was torpedoed by a submarine this
morning. At least, one life was lost.
The foregoing probably refers to
the Groek steamship Spetzai of 1,940
I tons gross, owned in Piraeus. j
I There Is also a Greek battleship
' Spetzel, which in September was re
ported from Athens to havenjoined the
Anglo-French naval forces in Greek
waters. She displaces 4,804 tons and
is an old warship which was recon
structed in 1900.
Quiet on French Front.
Paris, Nov. 21, 2:05 a. m. The offi
cial communication on the French
front, given out by the war office this
afternoon, says:
"Artilery activity was maintained
last night to a notable degree in the
regions of Saillisel and Douaumont
The night passed in relative calm
everywhere else on the front "
oo
WOMEN SHOWER
FLOWERS! MEN
Victorious Entente Troops
Warmly Greeted as They
Enter City of Monastir.
BULGARIANS LEAVE
Defile Through Streets, Pil
lage Stores and Set Fire to
AH Military Buildings.
Paris, Nov. 21, 5:15 a. m. The entente
troops entered Monastir on the heels of the
retreating Bulgarians, according to a descrip
tion of the fail of the city telegraphed to the
Petit Journal by its correspondent on the Scr- j
bian front.
The dispatch dated Saturday says:
"The last Bulgarian patrol of 17 troopers
left the city al 9:30 a. m. just as the allies
advanced guard entered. Women showered
flowers on the victorious troops as they
marched through the streets. The night be-,
fore the enemy, after defiling thrice through
the main street, pillaged all the stores and
toward midnight set fire to the ambulances,
barracks, forage depots and all buildings of a
military nature.
Retreat of Bulbars.
"The retreat began about 3 a. m. The offi- (
cials had evacuated the night before and
nearly 3,000 Bulgarian families left two days
ago. The infantry was not clear of the out
skirts until 8 a. m. The enemy is being closely
pressed by our troops, but bad weather makes
both pursuit and retreat difficult.
"The enemy will attempt to form upon a
line 17 miles to the north which was pre
pared two months ago and which passes ap
proximately along the Topolchani heights by
the villages of Klepao, kahartlachi and Hill
1,506, the top of the Sokar ranRe. During the
last two days he has been obliged to abandon
an enormous quantity of material. We found
among other things at Monastir a number of
locomotives which will be precious to us."
GERMANS FIRE ON
BRITISH STEAMER
Three Shots Fired in Quick
Succession Fail to Strike
Vessel Many Ameri
cans Aboard.
New York. Nov. 2!. The British steamship
Siamese Prince, returning in ballast after de
livering a cargo of horses at Brest for tho
French government, was fired upon without
warning, presumably by a German submarine,
off the French coast on November 4, accord
ing to officers of the vessel which arrived here
today.
Three shots were fired, the officers said, two
in quick succession which passed oyer the port
quarter and a third soon after which dropped
into the water astem. The lifeboats were
swung out, the crew of 42 and 205 hostlers
donned life preservers and the ship put on full
speed. The craft which attacked was not
sighted at any time, owing partly to weather
conditions and the officers of the Siamese
Prince were unable to say whether their ves-
HAIG'S DRIVE ON SOMME NETS THOUSANDS OF PRISONERS; m I
1 MUD A FOOT DEEP RETARDS FRENCH ARTILLERY MOVEMENTS
i
tured by British; muddy roads on V .
Sorame front; General Hoig. "7 ' -..-
In the fighting- on the Somme front the British have been fortunate in capturing many thousands of Gor-
i mans. A few aro shown. French artillery movements have been retarded by deep mud. A wagon laden with
shells for the French 76's is shown in mud a foot deep on tho Somme front The British operations aro con
ducted by General Sir Douglas Haig. '
sel was pursued. The hostlers included a great
many Americans, it was stated.
The attack took place at 7 a. m. 200 miles
at sea, while a heavy sea was running. No
attempt was made to torpedo the ship, which
is owned by Furncss, Withy 6c Co., and which
carried no passengers. The officers of the ves
sel judged that the attacking boat was about
a mile distant.
00
WILLCOX STILL
DENIES DEFEAT
Republicans Do Not Concede
Election of Wilson and Will
Not for Some Time to
Come.
New York. Nov. 21. Chairman William R.
Willcox of the Republican national committee
took cognizance today of reports that Charles
Evans Hughes had prepared a message of con
gratulation to send to President Wilson con
ceding his re-election, but had withheld it on
the advice of Republican lenders, by denying
that any such communication had ever been
prepared. He said the reports were "founded
on nothing but smoke."
Mr. Willcox came to Republican national
headquarters here from Lakcvvood where he
, and Mr. Hughes have been taking a rest from
their campaign labors. He reiterated his pre
vious statements that the lime had not yet ar
rived for the Republicans to concede the elec
tion to President Wilson, nor would he make
any forecast as to when n definite statement
in that regard might be expected. He said
that even when the official count in California
is known, there might still be conditions in
other close states keeping the final result in
doubt.
GERMAN REPLY
GiVENEMBASSY
Government Denies That Sub
marine Fired on Lifeboats
Containing Members
of Crew.
Berlin, Nov. 20, 10:30 a. m. Via
London, Nov. 21, 8:45 a. m. (Do
layed). Secretary Joseph T. Grow of
tho United States embassy received
today tho German reply regarding tho
sing of tho British steamer Rowan
moro and three steamors HoBt in Sep
tember. In regard to the Rowanrnoro,
the German government denies that
tho submarine fired on tho lifeboats
containing members of tho crow and
maintains that tho men on the Rowan,
more owe their lives to the precau
tions aken by the Germans and the
skill with which their operations were .
carried out..
In respect to two of the remaining
steamers in question, the German gov
ernment states that were not sunk by
German forces and maintains that the
Antwerpen, the third steamer, was de
stroyed in full accordance with the
rules of International law.
The Antwerpen was built at New-
port News for the Standard Oil com
pany and was on her maiden trip to
London when she was sunk. She was
a vessel of 11,300 tons.
oo
WOMEN INVESTIGATE
RETAIL FOOD PRICES
Chicago, Nov. 21. A corps of wom
en today began an investigation of
the retail grocery establishments here
in an attempt to determine the places
at which eatables may bo bought most
cheaply. The investigation is being
made in connection with the purchase
of food with which to feed the "diet
squad" of tho municipal health de
partment in its attempts to determine
whether a person can live, and live
well, on forty cents a day.
oo
GRAND OPERA TO BE
TAXED IN CHICAGO
Chicago, Nov. 21. Grand Opera will
be taxed twenty per cent of its gross
Income and a percentngo tax also will
bo levied against all other amuse
ments, excepting motion picture the
atres, if proposals of Eugono Block,
nil uiuuruiau uiu uuujjiuu, iui, juiuv-n.
previously had urged that a 10 per
cent tax bo levied ngahiBt tho receipts
of the two major league baseball clubs
of tho city. Tho steps aro necessary,
ho urged, to Increase tho city's reve
nuo to meet Increased demands upon
Its pocket book.
oo
POSTMASTERS URGE
EARLY XMAS MAIL
Washington, Nov. 21. Early Christmas
shopping and mailing was commended by the
National Association of Assistant Postmasters
meeting here today. Publicity campaigns will
be instituted in each city by local postal
authorities to impress on the public the needs
of reducing the usual flood of mail during the
last week before Christmas.
WOMAN SHIPS XMAS TREES.
Chicago, Nov. 21. Mrs. Barbara
Schuonemann has loaded a new
schooner with spruce, pine and fir in
Schoolcraft county Michigan and Is
preparing to make her third trip to
furnlBh tho ChrlDtmas trees for Chi
cago's yuletldo. Mrs. Schuonemann,
has become the holiday fairy to tho
children of Chicago.
RAILWAY CHIEFS
FLAN ALLIANCE
Brotherhood Leaders Appear
Before Federation Conven
tion to Develop United
Scheme.
Steps Taken to Assist in De
fending Eight-hour Law
Against Court Attacks.
Washington, Nov. 21. Chiefs of the four
railway employes brotherhoods, after confer
ring here yesterday with President Wilson, offi
cials of the department of justice and their
own legislative agents, went to Baltimore to
day to appear before the American Federation
of Labor's meeting there and develop an al
liance and betterment of railway workers' con
ditions. G. L. Lee, chief of the trainmen's brother
hood, declared the agreement with the federa
tion did not go so far as to provide for a
joint commission to extend the eight-hour law
to all railroad employes. The affiliation with
the American Federation of Labor was regard
ed as unprecedented and quite significant,
however.
The brotherhoods have taken steps to as
sist the department of justice in defending the
eight-hour law against court attacks instituted
by railroad managements.
COMPULSORY ORDER
VWTLl MMMOJ
Amsterdam, Nov. 21, via Dondon, 7:03 a.
m. The Berlin Tagcblatt. discussing com
pulsory service of civilians in the proposed
"home army," expresses the belief that the
step will cnuse "a deep but quiet revolution
in Germany." The Tagcblatt declares that
"Germany must emerge from the war a free
parliamentary country and everybody who is
professionally engaged in sowing tho seeds of
international hatred should be punished.
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg has Ief;
Berlin for a short visit to army headquarters'
according to the Cologne Volks-Zeitung.'
UU I
BOILER EXPLOSION
ON GERMAN VESSEL
London, Nov. 21, 8:05 a. m. The
German steamer Fritz Hugo Stlnnes
has been wrecked in the Baltic
through a boiler explosion, according
to a Copenhagen despatch to tho
Exchange Telegraph company. Tho
vessel was bound from Gefle, Sweden,
to Hamburg and seven of her crew ;
are reported missing. She was a ship ;
of 1,47S tons.
EIGHT-HOUR LAW I
BEF0REGAB1NET I
President Discusses Details and
Prepares to Make Recom
mendations to Congress.
LEGAL BASIS OF WORK
Will Ask Immediate Enlarge
ment and Administrative
Re-organization of Inter
state Commerce Com
mission. Washington, Nov. 21. President
Wilson's recommendations ftfr railroad '
legislation in his address to congress ,
will be practically the same as those j
embodied In his special address last '
August when a nation-wide railroad .
strike was pending. The president dis- j
cussed some of the details today with
the cabinet. In his special address ; jH
the president made six specific recom- t
mendations. Two providing" for an j
eight-hour day as legal basis of work j ,
and of railways for a commission to j
observe the operation of the law were i
embodied in the Adamson act. i i
The others, which remained unact- I
ed upon and which will be renewed ,
by the president are:
Immediate provision for the enlarge- P
ment and administrative rcorganiza- v
tion of the interstate commerce com- i JH
mission along the lines embodied in H
the bill recently passed by the house e
of representatives and now awaiting f jH
action by the senate; in order that fi
the commission may be enabled to
deal with the great and various duties
now devolving upon, it with a prompt- f
n'ess' and thoroughness which are with j'
its present constitution and means of u IH
action practically impossible. j- IH
Explicit approval by the congress of
the consideration by the interstate jH
commerce commission of an Increase jJ
of freight rates to meet such addition-
al expenditures by the railroads as IH
may have been rendered necessary by t
the adoption of the eight-hour day and j vM
which have not been offset by admin
istration readjustments and economics
should tho facts disclosed justify the
increase. jH
An amendment of the existing fed- r
eral statute which provides for the
mediation, conciliation and arbitration
of such controversies as the present ..
cases the methods of accomodation j IH
now provided for should fail, a" full '.
public investigation of the merits of
every Buch dispute shall be instituted
and completed before a strike or lock- I
out may be lawfully attempted. $ jH
The lodgment in the hands of the S
executive of the power, in case of mil- IH
itary necessity, to take control of such
portions of such rolling stock of the
railways of the country as may be re- 1,
quired for military use and to operate
them for military purposes, with au- J
thority to draft into tho military serv- JM
ice of the United States such train
crews and administrative officials as A
the circumstances require for their i JM
safe and efficient use. i,
Attorney General Gregory said at to- jH
day's cabinet meeting the government
was fullv prepared to defend tho suits 5 1
to test the constitutionality of the law (
and he supposed railroad brother- i
hood officials would be represented by , JM
counsel. aM
GERMANS SINK "!
NORWEGIAN SHIP
if
London, Nov. 21, 11:30 a. m. The
master and part of the crew of the f
Norwegian steamer Finn, landed today
and reported that their vessel had IH
been sunk by a German submarine.
The steamship Director landed eighj; t
men of the crew of the Greek steam- I? I
er Marie N. Roussos, which capsized. i! jl
The other members of the crew were K
drowned. j fA
SWISS REFUSE TO .
RECOGNIZE POLAND
1 m
Paris, Nov. 21,5:10a. m. The Swiss gov- j jH
ernment has decided not to recognize offi- jf
cially the newly accredited kingdom of Poland,
according to a dispatch to the Radio Agency. ( jJ
The dispatch adds that the action will not H
have relieved the public until after the war. ; 'H
I -1 I
Talking About Regular g
'I cent more dally than Its nearest U
ssl
IH
ksfl
