PHE BARRE BAI1LY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 212.
UAH HE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1010.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
SERBS CAPTURE
SEVEN TOWNS
They Are Following Up the
Victory North of
Monastir
T
tro-Gcrmans. the tmssaires of the Tran
Uylvania Alp leading to the plains of
Mallachia.
In tlii Jiul valley region, the retire
'ment of the Rumanians continues, and In
tln Campiiiung sector Petrograd report
that further Rumanian attack against
the Teutonic wllioa have been iinsuccess.
fill. On the Danube front in Dobrud
ja artillery engagements are in progress
from Silistria to Oltina.
CHECK ADMINISTERED
IN MOGLENCIA REGION
Italian Troops Are Closing
in on the West of
Monastir
London, Xor. 21. Continuing their
pursuit of the defeated German and Bul
garian troops on the Macedonian front,
the Serbians have captured several vil
lages and taken a great number of pris
oners.
Router's correspondent reports that
the German and Bulgarian troops
have received reinforcements and are
offering severe resistance. The dis
patch, which was filed yesterday, says
the Serbians have captured seven villages
in the Sector west and northwest of lion
astir. I'aris, Xov. 21. The allied troops are
pressing the. German Bulgarian rear
guard detachments to the north of Mon
astir. according to the French war ofliee.
The Italian troops have repulsed a counter-attack
to the west of Monastir and
the French forces have occupied the vil
lage of Kranie on Lake Presba.
ADVANCE NEAR MONASTIR.
Berlin Admits Entente Forces are Suc
cessful There.
Berlin, by wireless, Xov. 21. The at
tempts of the Serbians to advance in the
Moglencia region of the Macedonian
front yesterday were defeated, the war
office statement says. In the Monastir
district the entente troops are still advancing.
AN ULTIMATU3I
TO MEXICANS
IN CONFERENCE
RESCUED ALL
ON BOARD
But Passengers and Crew o
the Sibiria Had a Dis
tressing Experience
SPENT 24 HOURS
WAITING FOR HELP
TIGHTENING ON
FOOD SUPPLY
Entente Allies Present New Demands to
Switzerland Large Quantities
Are Held Up.
Berlin, via wireless, Xov. 21. It is re
ported from Switzerland that new de
mands have been presented to the Swiss
government by the entente powers
Swiss press dispatches, -quoted by the
Overseas .News agency, say that large
quantities of food and other supplies are
being held up in Italian and French
ports, pending Switzerland's compliance
with demands which are characterized by
tho Berne Bund as something unheard of
in the memory of man. and as a treat
ment which no one can endure.
After-Jons negotiations with the en
tente and Germany, Switzerland entered
into arraneements for importation of
food supplies through allied territory
and of coal and other material from Ger
many. A dispatch from Berne on Xov.
13 said a new dispute had arisen regard
ing exportation to Germany and Austria
of the products made by machines lubri
cated with oil coming from entente coun
tries and of electric power transmitted
b.v copper wire purchased in these coun
TEUTONS REPULSE
COUNTER-ATTACKS
AT CAMPULUNG
Berlin Statement Says Efforts, of Rus
sians Were of No Avail and Teu
tons Are Now Before Craiova.
Berlin (via wireless), Xov. 21. Ger
man and Austro-Hungarian troops in
vading Rumania repulsed several attacks
by Russian troops north of Campulung
last night, a statement says. Teutonic
troops are now before Craiova.
RUMANIANS RETIRE
To Filliash, 40 Miles to Northwest of
Craiova.
Petrograd, Xov. 21. Rumanian forces
in southwestern Rumania have retired in
the face of Austro-German attacks to
the region of Filliash, 40 miles to the
northwest of Craiova, according to the
war department.
TOOK A FEW PRISONERS.
WANTED IN BOSTON
Dr. Lemuel F. Noble Was Arested In
Pittsburg on Drug Charge.
Pittsburg, Xov. 21. Charged with be
ing a fugitive from justice, Dr. Lemuel
F. Xoble, Hged 38 years, of Boston. Mass.,
was arrested here yesterday while tour
ing the city. He was lodged in the cen
tral police station and word of Ins ar
rest telegraphed to the district attorney
m Boston. . He is accused of violating
the Harrison drug act.
Dr. Xoble left Boston Xov. 7 with two
male companions. His movements were
watched by a detective agency. When he
arrived here Sunday, F. C. Armswnrthv,
in charge of the local agency, with city
detectives placed him under arrest.
His companions were detained for sev
eral hours by the police. After a state
ment they were released. Dr. Xoble's
automobile was put in the city garage.
According to the police, Dr. Xoble's
ofliee at 143 Massachusetts avenue, Bos
ton, was raided by the district attorney
last week. Twenty-five persons were
eaught'in. the raid. All were users of
drugs. Among them were several wom
en. Dr. Xoble was not in Boston at the
time and was understood to be in Buf
falo. From there he went to Krie, from
which place his automobile was shipped
to Pittsburg. Yesterday the physician
had the car unloaded in the freight sta
tion and, it is believed, intended leaving
the city last night.
Dr. Xoble, according to stationery
found in his possession, is medical di
rector of the Walter Baker sanitarium,
624 Warren street, Boston.
CITY COUNCIL ARRESTED.
Brussels Officials Come Under Displeas
ure of Germans.
London, Xov. 21. A dispatch to the
Daily Xews from Rotterdam says:
"The entire Brussels city council, with
the aldermen, were arrested the 17th for
refusing to surrender lists of the city's
unemployed. They were released after
24 hours, when it was found that the
lists had been taken by the Germans.
"As far as is known at Rotterdam, no
deportations from Brussels had occurred
as late as Saturday."
READY TO SAIL.
But British Were Not Very Active on
Monday.
. London, Nov. 21. The British war of
fice communication last night was as fol
low s:
"On the Ancre and Somme battle
grounds to-day the enemy shelled Beau
mont Hazel and the neighborhood of
(iueudecourt. During the past 24 hours
we have taken 80 more prisoners."
DEFEAT FOR RUMANIANS.
Teutons are Pressing in from the North
ward.
lndon. Xov. 21. With the end of the
first stage of the Franco-Serbian cam
paign, which resulted in the capitulation
of Monastir by the Bulgars and Germans,
and a dimunition of hostilities in the
Somme region of France, except for bom
bardments and isolated infantry actions,
Rumania bas again become the center
of interest.
Driving eastward through western
AVallachia the Austro-German forces are
now reaching out for Craiova, lying on
the railroad midway between the Danube
town of Orsora, Hungary, and Buchar
est. The manoeuvre apparently places a
menace in the rear to the retreat of the
Rumanians fighting in the north on Hun
garian oil and disputing with the Aus-
Deutschland Has Been Freed of Legal
Entanglements.
New London, Conn., Xov. 21. Freed
from legal entanglements which have ac
cumulated since she sank one of her con
voying tugs in the Race last Friday, the
German merchant submarine Deutsch
Iand is prepared to resume her inter
rupted, voyage to Bremen. While offi
cials of the Eastern Forwarding company
were as secretive as usual concerning
the plans, there were indications that
the submarine would steal out to sea
within the next 24 hours.
Captain Koenig discarded civilian dress
last night and wore his naval uniform.
Shore leave was denied to the Deutsch
land's crew and sailors on the Xorth
German Lloyd liner Willehad were not
allowed to leave the deck.
Was in Danger of Be
ing Engulfed
Secretary Lane Tells Them on What Con
ditions the American Troops Will Be
Withdrawn from Mexico.
... .. -. sv i - ni FtM
Atlantic iitv, i. xnov. -1. 11101 -it-' ci J J J
American comniissUmers to-day gave th American bmp btrandea ana
Mexican commissioners what is under-1
stood to be the last opportunity for a
amicable settlement of the question
that have arisen because of Carranza'i
failure to provide adequate protection
for life and property along the interna
tional border.
In joint session Secretary of the In
terior tane, chairman of the American
commission,' informed t arranzas rcpre
sentatives that the American punitiv
expedition would be withdrawn within
reasonable time and under conditions
that would not impair the dignity of the
American government or leave unpro
tected the territory just south of the
border, now patrolled by Americans. In
cident to such a withdrawal, he outlined
the manner in which the American gov
ernment was prepared to guard the long
frontier and to punish marauding bands,
How Luis Cabrera and his colleagues
of the Mexican commission received what
is regarded as the last word of the
American commissioners, is not expected
to be known until the session ends this
afternoon.
Dover, England, Xov. 21. The fi3 pas
sengers and the, crew of the American
steamer Sibiria, which stranded on tJood
win sands, were landed at IHial to-day
by the Kingsdown lifeboats. The res
cued had a distressing experience during
the 24 hours they were awaiting assist
ance after tho steamer stranded vester
day. There was momentary peril of tho
steamer being cngultcd in the quick
SHIMS.
Fruitless efforts were made yesterday
by the lifeboats from neighboring sta
tions to rescue the passengers. Severa
men of the lifeboat crews were injured
and the boats narrowly escaped destruC'
tion.
NORWEGIAN CREW
WAS PARTLY SAVED
Steamer Was Sunk By a German Subma
rine and Survivors Were Landed
in England.'
London, Xov. 21. The master and part
of the crew of the Xorwegian steamer
Finn were landed to-day and reported
their vessel was sunk by a German sub
marine. The steamship Director landed
eight members of the crew of the Greek
steamer Marie X'. Ronssos, which eap
sized. The other members of the crew
were drowned.
NO WORD OF SHIP.
The Rappahannock Is Thought to Have
Been Sunk by Germans.
Halifax, N. S., Xov. 21. Announce
merit was made here last night that the
overdue rurness linn steamer Rappahan
nock had been sunk bv Germans. Xo
word has been heard of Captain Garrett
and his crew of 40 men, and the fear was
expressed that they had perished. The
Rappahannock sailed from this port for
Liverpool IVt. 19.
Xews of the Rappahannock a loss came
to tho local agents of the Fumess line
ast night in a cable from the London
office. The cable stated that the loss of
tho steamer was received in London by
wireless from Berlin, but no information
was given as to the place or manner in
which the steamer was sunk.
The Rappahannock had been engaged
n the service between this port and Liv
erpool since 1007, and she was one of the
ships that took a prominent part in the
rescue of the steamer Volturno when
that vessel was burned at sea.
The Rappahannock registered 3.8S4
tons net and carried a valuable cargo,
part of which consisted of 20.000 barrels
of apples. She was built in Glasgow in
1903.
WOULD ADMIT DEFEAT.
ARTILLERY ACTIVE.
German Guns Boomed on Two Fronts
Monday.
Paris, Xov. 21. The bulletin issued by
the F'rench war office last night was aa
follows:
"The enemy artillery was quite active
north of the Somme and in the sector of
Douaumont. On the rest of the front
there is nothing to report."
A "button strip" for shirtwaists will
be found practical and economical. Work
a set of buttonholes usually four on
the under hem, and a corresponding set
on the top plait of your shirtwaist: then
sew the buttons on a strip of cloth the
length of the waist front, buttoning it
to the under hem. When your shirt
waist is ready for the wash remove the
button atrip. One set of buttons will do
duty for several shirtwaists. The but
tons will retain their new look and will
not be ironed off at the laundry.
But Hughes is Said to Be Restrained by
Party Leaders.
Xew York, Xov. 21. That Charles E.
Hughes has written a telegram of con-re-election
to the presidency and has
re-election ti the presidency and has
wished to send it for the last few days,
was the report which obtained credence
in Republican circles yesterday. It was
stated that Mr. Hughes has failed to
send the congratulatory message out of
eference to the advice of leaders of the
Republican national organization.
According to the report, Mr. Hughes
became convinced at Lakewood on Sun
day that there was no chance of any up
set in the California returns by further
official count and wished to send the tel
egram then. It also was stated that
he had sought to obtain for himself di
rect information from California, wheth
er there was any possible chance of the
returns from the districts as yet un
counted officially reversing the unofficial
returns which gave President Wilson
the state.
William R. Willcox, chairman of the
national committee, came in from Lake
wood yesterday and had a talk with Her
bert Parsons and Charles B. Warren, na
tional committeeman from Michigan. It
was said to have been their decision that
Mr. Hughes, as long as he had delayed
his message until now, might better wait
until the official count was entirely in.
It was stated that Mr. Hughes will un
doubtedly send the telegram at that
time, if not before, and that there is no
longer any suggestion of any applica
tion for a recount on the part of the Re
publicans in any of tho close states. -
Vance C. McCormick, chairman of the
Democratic national committee, received
a telegram from Gavin McXab, member
of the campaign committee from Califor
nia, stating that the San Francisco count
was all in and that all the .California
Democratic ehvtors wre "absolutely
safe." It was said at Republican head
quarters that there had been no definite
information received there during the
day.
LABOR MEN URGED
TO STAND TOGETHER
FOR 8-IIOUR DAY
Affiliation of Members of American Fed
eration of Labor and Four Rail
road Brotherhoods Wat Sug
gested at Baltimore.
Baltimore, Md., Xov. 21. The affilia
tion of members of the American Fed
eration of Labor and the four railroad
brotherhoods for effecting a general bet
terment of labor was urged to-day be
fore tho federation convention by broth
erhood heads and President Compere.
"Wo must hang together or we will
hang aeparately," W. G, Lee, spokesman
for the brotherhoods, declared. "I am
about anarchist enough to say that we
are going to work for an eight-hour day
for all classes. Jf we can t get it peace
ably, we'll fight for it," be said.
HOSTILE TO INJUNCTION.
American Federation of Labor Goes on
Record in Matter.
Baltimore, Md., Xov. 21. The organ
ized labor forces of the country yester
day avowed extreme hostility to the writ
of injunction at a means of stopping a
strike. First, a resolution was adopted
unanimously at the morning session of
the convention ot the American fed
eration of Labor, urging organized labor
everywhere to make the injunction ques
tion "the paramount issue mi all of their
future political activities."
A more radical step was taken at the
afternoon session when the committee on
the executive council's report took up
the feature of the report dealing with
the decision of thik .Massachusetts su
preme court classifying labor aa proper
ty. The committee submitted at the con
vention unanimously adopted a recom
mendation that "any injunction dealing
with the relationship of employer and
employe, and based on the dictum that
abor is property, be disregarded, let the
consequences be what they may."
The committees report follows:
"It seems to be a settled purpose of
interest antagonistic to the freedom of
men and women who labor to persuade
and then use the judiciary and miscon-
trued constitutional guarantees and
thereby nullify legislative enactments,
so as tc leave but one remedy and we,
tlierelore, recommend that any mjunc-
ions dealing with the relationship of
m plover and employe, and based on the
lctum, labor is property, be wholly and
bsolutely disregarded as usurpation, and
isregarded, let the consequences be what
they may. Such decisions as the one
rendered by the supreme court of the
state of Massachusetts have their roots
class interesta; it is usurpation and
tyranny. Freedom came to man be
cause he believed that resistance to ty
ranny is obedience to God. As it ma,
so it must be maintained. Kings could
and were, disobeyed and some time
e posed.
must be disobeyed and should be ira
peached.
GREECE HURLS
HER DEFIANCE
TWO LEASES TO SAME HOTEL.
Will Not Surrender Arms
and Munitions 'to En
tente Allies
GREAT CROWD
CHEERS CONSTANTINE
Premier Lambrose Is Ex
pected to Remain in
Power for a Time
Athens, Xov. 2, via London, X'ov. 21.
The crown council has decided in prin
ciple to refuse to surrender the arms and
ammunition of Greece to the allies, as
demanded by Vice-Admiral DuFuiirnt't,
commander of the allied tlcet.
King Constantine, on leaving the pal
ace after the meeting was .vildly cheered
bv the crowd, which had been awaiting
the decision of the conference. It is un
derstood that Premier Lambrose will re
main in power for the present.
Athens, via London, Xov. 21. A royal
decree issued yesterday accepts the resig
nation of the Greek army officers who
desire to join tho provisional govern
ment at Saloniki and orders their libera
tion from a prison where they have been
confined on charges of desertion from the
Greek arm v.
SWISS WILL REFUSE
POLAND RECOGNITION
Dispatch Sayt that Neutral Country Will
Ignore the Action of Germany in
Creating New Kingdom.
Paris, Xov. 21. The Swiss government
ha decided not to recognize the newly
created kingdom of Poland, according to
to a Swis dispatch to the Radio agency.
So Holder of Later Lease at Burlingto
Vacated It.
Burlington, Xov. 21. J. A. Slierrar
who arrived in this city Thursday even
ing, Xov. II, with leases in his pocket o
the Hotel ermont and van Xess hou
to which leases he and Max
Powell were parties and which were
signed up by him in Boston, has resigned
the right to his leases ami will leave to
day with his family, who accompanies
him here to make their home, for hi
home in Boston, Mr. Sherrard resignei
his rights to the leases because of the
fact that a lease to lioth hotels whs a
readv held bv Robert K. Collamer, man
ager of the Vermont since its opening
and because the leases were made out t
Mr. Shcrrurd bv Mr. Powell after those
which Mr. Collamer holds were passed.
It will he remenilwied that the licenses
to sell intoxicating liquors at both the
Hotel Vermont and Van Xess house were
granted by the license commissioners o
this city to Max L. Powell. Iieing grant
ed at the tune the other licenses wer
granted in May. On the 13th of May
liev were revoked bv the commissioners
it having been brought to their nttentio
by Rev. Clifford H. Smith, supcrintenden
of the Vermont Anti-Snloon league, tha
Mr. Powell had 110 legal right to h
either license because of the fact that a
the time they were granted he was
state senator.
In the meantime, T. E. Kmmbholz ha
leased the two hotels on May 1. Mr
Kruiiibholdz had arrived and taken ove
the two hotels when the fact that t
! lic enses at both hotels were not valii:
was brought to the attention of the com
missinners. The bars at both hotels were
closed as soon as the matter was brought
before the commissioners and the licenses
were revoked. Mr. Collamer then mad
application for licenses at both hotels
hearing was held by the commissioners
in the city court room on bis petition
and the licenses were granted to him
But in ordiT to obtain the licenses h
first had to be the proprietor, and th
lease to lioth hotels was made over to
him bv Mr. Kmmbholz. Mr. Collamer
still holds the lease, which was in his
possession when Mr. Sherrard signed the
lease which he supposed gave him the
control of the two hotels.
GORED BY TAME BUCK.
BACK IN AMERICA.
in
Americans Who Have Been Flying
French Service.
Xew York, Nov. 21. American avia
tors fighting with the French forces on
the western front have brought down a
total of 21 German airplanes, accord
ing to Lieutenant William Thaw,, a
member of the French-American avia
tion corps, who arrived here yesterday
In cases of this kind, judges, on the steamship La Touraine for a
three weeks visit with relatives. Lieu
tenant Thaw was accompanied by C. C.
Johnson, also an American aviator,
whose home is in Xew York.
"Regulations of the French army for
bid us talking of our work. lieutenant
Thaw said: "My personal part in the
lighting has been told in the cable dis
patches and one of the 21 German ma
chines brought down is credited to me.
We heard nothing before leaving France
regarding the request of the American
government to drop the name 'American'
from the Franco-American corps. All
of us have sworn allegiance to the French
government." !
Mr. Johnson said that for some time
the work of American aviator has been
BOY SCOUTS APPROVED.
Special Investigation Committee of A.
F. of L. Makes Report.
Boston, Xov. 2l. Approval of the
Boy Scouts of America was expressed
a communication sent last night to
Samuel Gompers, president of the Amer
ican Federation of Labor, by a special
investigation committee of the state
branch.
The investigation was the outcome of
the action of the executive council of
the state branch of the federation, which
t its meeting a month ago condemned
the boy scout movement because of the
published version of an address by a
scout leader in Camk-idge. This ver
sion was construed by officials of the
ate branch as show ing a h wtile atti-
ude bv scout leaders toward labor and
resolutions were adopted calling up la
bor men to forbid their sons to afliliate
ith the boy scouts.
Scout leaders claimed that the re
irt of tho Cambridge meeting was in
correct. A committee of the state branch
f the American Federation of Labor,
consisting of Martin T. Joyce, secretary-
treasurer, 1 nomas Gcrraughty and il
liam C. Ward, thereupon made an inves
tigation and last night sent their re
port to President Gompers. The re
port in part said:
"We find that the leaders of the boy
scout movement of this vicinity are men
of sterling character and have the wel
fare of the boys' future at heart; they
have invited representatives of the trade
union movement to take an active part
in helping them to make better men and
citizens of the boys.
The committee also stated that it
would present a recommendation to the
December meeting of the executive com
mittee that union officials keep in touch
with the boy scouts' movement to pre
vent its being directed towards militar
ism and to foster a closer anil sympathet
ic attitude toward organized labor.
Aged Couple at Auburn, Me., Were Se
verely Injured.
Auburn. "Me., Xov. 21. John F. Stan
le'v, superintendent of the state fish
hatchery at Lake Auburn, and his w-ife
were badlv gored yesterday by an en
raged buck which has been a captive at
the hatchery grounds for years.
Mr. Stanley went into the fenced en
closure, in which the deer has been kept
with another, to feed them. While he
was stooping over the feed pan the deer
attacked him from behind. In a mo
ment he was on the ground and being
trampled by the sharp hoofs of the buck
and cut with his horns.
Mrs. Stanley was in lied in the house
and hearing her husband's cries, rushed
to his assistance in her bare feet and in
night attire. Just as she came to the pen
the buck tossed her husband into the
brook and turned on lier.
A collie dog was with her and he set
upon the buck and succeeded in drawing
his attention sufficiently for Mrs. Stan
ley to get out and telephone for help
Some neighbors came quickly and found
Mr. Stanley still lving in the brook, near
ly unconscious. They took him to the
house and a physician was summoned.
Mr. Stanley was badly cut about the
head and body and had several broken
ribs. He suffered sevjrelv from the
shock of the attack and of lying nearly
an hour in the icy water.
Mrs. Stanley also suffered from several
severe cuts and exposure. Mr. Stanley
is 76 and Mrs. Stanley 71, but both are
confined to scouting fights. Both the expected to recover.
aviators talked with Xorman Prince just
prior to his going on what proved to be
his last flight, lhey said ha volplaned
back to the French lines after an air
engagement and in alighting his machine
struck some telegraph wires, turning it
over, and Prince received injuries that
Tesulted in his death.
SINKING IS ADMITTED.
WAR WIDOWS FOR CANADA.
FLEW TO CONGRESS.
D. Bleakley Took Two Hours from
His Home in Franklin, Pa.
Washington. D. C, Xov. 21. O. D.
Bleakley of Franklin. Ia., representative-elect,
yesterday made an aeroplane
flight from Philadelphia to Washington
in his own biplane piloted by Sergeant
Vsing a warm iron when cutting out William C. tvker of the I'nitcd States
clothing will do away with pins and army. Mr. Bleakley declared he was
weights on tine paper patterns. T.av"the first man to come to Congress bv
the pattern on the material and pres it "aeroplane." About two hours were con-
i:i.t : . U ;. T . . , - . , m .
nynnv huh m m hub, like OHliern Plimftl ill scoiai n inc. mmi nnp Slop was
made in the suburbs of Baltimore.
it a a warm iron.
will cling1 to the cloth.
With Expectation They Will Marry Ca
nadian Farmers.
Chicago, Xov. 21 Thousands of Brit
ish war widows and their children are to
be brought over to Canada with the ex
pectation that many of the women will
be married to Canadian farmers, accord
ing to plans outlined here yesterday by
David I.amb of Ijondon, commissioner of
the International Emigration Society of
the Salvation Army.
Commissioner I-amh, who has made a
tour of Canada, said he had received as-surani-es
of the support of the plan from
both the Canadian and the British governments.
Germans Say Their Submarine Attacked
the Arabia.
Washington, Xov. 21. Announcement
by the semi-official Overseas Xews agen
cy that a German submarine sank the
British liner Arabia made a deep im
pression in official quarters here yester
day and apparently removed an possi
bility that this case might take its place
with that of the Persia, sunk in the Med
iterranean long ago in some manner ncv
er cleared up. Ilia British admiralty
said the Persia was torpedoed without
warning, but none of the central powers
would admit responsibility for it.
Some oflicials expressed surprise that
the attack on the Arabia had been semi
officially admitted. It was suggested
that the Overseas dispatch might mean
that Germany was preparing to make a
test in this case of the "armed ship"
controversy with the I'nitcd States, or
that a minor official, hostile to Chancel
lor Von Bethmann-Hollweg'g submarine
policy might have allowed the dispatch
to get out. seeing in it an opportunity to
force the issue. It has b"en known here
for some time that Germany would make
a bitter fight against the defensive arm
ing of merchant ships.
The deer was brought up bv hand, be
ing found beside the dead mother five
years ago.
GETS MORE; PAYS MORE.
DISQUALIFIED HIMSELF.
FIVE POINTS CONSIDERED
la President Wilson's Message to Be
Read to Congress.
Washington. D. C, Xov. 21 lYi-sident
Wilon virtually completed his next an
nual mesage to Congress yesterday.
The principal items in the message are
understood to be railroad legislation to
meet the situation created h- the threat
ened railroad strike lat August; a meas
ure to allow Ameneirn exporters to form
common selling agencies abroad; conser
vation bill; a corrupt practice measure,
and the Porto Rico bilL
Judge Took Himself Out of Trial for
Murder.
Thomason Falls, Mont., X'ov. 21.
.Judge R. L. McCuIloch of Sanders county
disqualified himself yesterday rather
than preside at the trial of Miss Edith
Colby, formerly of Xew Hampshire, a
newspaper woman, charged with the
murder of A. C. Thomas, a politician.
John Maniere, editor, and A. S. Ain
worth, manager of the paper on which
Miss Colby worked, are held as acces
sories. Judge McCtilloch said his reasons
for not desiring to preside at the trial
were too personal to lie explained, and
called J. M. Clements of Helena to the
bench.
Americans, Earning Better Wages, Need
More to Pay High Prices.
Xew York, Xov. 21. The laborer who
earns $12 a week and who last year spent
$fi.40 of it for food for himself and fam
ily must now pay $7.02 for the same
amount of food, according to a repert of
the Association for Improving the Condi
tion of the Poor, made public last night.
The association estimates that the aver
age unskilled wage earner ordinarily
spends 4.5 per cent of his income for food.
"If there has been no increase in his
waues, he cannot spend this additional I
amount for fowl." says the report. "The
result is that his family is obliged to do
without it."
DID NOT NAME
A VERMONTER
To Succeed Latp' mes
Kelleher a? .tional
Rank FV ainer
H.
STATE DEMOCRATS
CANNOT EXPLAIN IT
There Was Said to Be No
Dissension Among the
Party Leaders
St. Albans, Xov. 21. In response to a
letter of inquiry, James I). Burnham.
hief national bank examiner in Boston,
advises that the comptroller of the cur
rency has appointed Thomas J. Goodwyn
as national bank examiner to succeed tha
late James H. Kelleher of Montpelier.
It is not announced to what district Mr.
Goodwyn has been assigned. It is un
derstood that his home is in South Carolina.
Leaders of , the Democratic partv in
Vermont are at a loss to understand'whv
Vermont man was not appointed to
succeed Mr. Kelleher. There apparently
was no dissension in the party and the
rauers are said to have been practically
unanimous in supporting the candidacy
of one man. The candidates for the ap
pointment were Jerry F. O'Xeill of St.
Albans, J, C.-Durick of Fair Haven and
J. G. Ullery of Brattleboro.
HUGHES' PLURALITY
IN VERMONT WAS
19,452 OFFICIAL
Secretary of State Canvasses Returns
and Finds That Republican Party
Electors Received Most
Votes.
The official plurality of Huches over
Wilson in Vermont two weeks aeo to
day was 10,.")42, as shown at the State
House when Secretary of State Guy W.
Bailey canvassed the returns. The high
est Hughes elector received 40,250 votes
and the highest Wilson elector had 22,-
08. It was a close race between tho
'rohibitionists and the Socialists for
hird position, the latter winning bv 89
votes.
The official vote as certified to to-dav
by Secretary of State Bailey is as fol-
ows :
J. E. Pollard. Republican, Chester 40,2o0
.art S. Jvitislcv, Republican, Rut
land 40,209
Alexander Dnnnett, Republican.
St. Jolinsbury 40.1S7
John L. Southwick, Republican.
Burlington 40,215
Don C. Pollard, Democrat, Caven
dish 22.708
rank Carpcntier, Democrat, Col
chester 22,657
. E. Lane, Democrat, Bennington 22,648
. R. Kirkpatrick, Democrat, Xew
port 22,655
eorge C. Thrall. Prohibitionist,
Rutland 70!)
eorge s. Wood, Prohibitionist.
Paw let 705
ndievv Aitken, Prohibitionist,
Newbury "01
eork'c .Maker, Prohibitionist.
Harre 703
ohn Spargo, Socialist, Old Ben
nington "OS
red W. Suitor, Socialist, Rarre.. "0;
saac E. Springer, Socialist, Xorth
Hartland 703
Callaghan, Socialist,
70tl
10
ohn J,
Bane ,
Scatterin;
ARRESTED IN CIVIL CASE.
. WORKMEN GIVEN RAISE.
Eastman Kodak Co. Announces Order to
Take Effect Dec. 6.
Rochester, X. Y Xov. 21. The Eastman
Kodak company yesterday announced to
its employes that between Dec. (, lOKi,
and April 2.1. 1017, it would pay to its
employes receiving $20 a week or less an
emergency wage amounting to IS per
cent of their wages and to those receiv
ing betw een $20 and !?."0 a week, an emer
gency wage of $3 a week.
This payment is said by the company
to be made to meet the abnormal in
crease in the cost of living brought about
by the European war.
HUNTE.R SHOT IN FOOT.
Curtains may be kept from Mowing
out of the windows if you place lead or
iron weights in the corners. Thin iron
washers are good, as they are not hew
rnough to make the curtains Mir. They
may be covered with the same material
and placed in either the hem or corneri.
Raymond Williamson of Fairfax Victim
of His Own Gun.
Fairfax, Xov. 21. Raymond William
son accidentally shot himself through one
foot while hunting yesterday. He was
brought home by Herbert Elmer and
later was taken to the Mary FUtcher
hospital in Burlington.
WAS NOT A BEAR
But Was Mistaken for One and Was
Killed.
Millinockrt. Me., Xov. 21. Daniel Car
riran, tsl. of this town, was shot and
killed yesterday by J'lias Simon, a wMd
fhopper. who mistook him for a lcar.
Carrigan is sorivid bv bis wife and
three children.
Manuel Erbosco Is Held for Personal
Damages to M. del Campo.
Manuel Erbosco. a granite cutter, was
rrested this afternoon on a body Writ in
civil proceedings brought by Marecllina,
del lampo ot tins city tor personal dam
ages alleged to have grown out of an
assault saiil to have been committed by
Erbosco on the plaintiff June 24 in Barre.
Suit is brought by del Campo through
the law firm of Porter, Witters & Har
vey of St. Jolinsbury and the arrest to
day was made by Deputy Sheriff M. C.
Garfield of St. Jolinsbury.
It is set up in the warrant that del
Campo has suffered great bodily pain as
a result of his clash with Erbosco and
that his physical condition following the
alleged assault was such as to prevent
him from following his trade of granite
cutting. It was expected that the de
fendant would be admitted to $2,000
when arraigned before a magistrate.
Damages are set at $2,000 and the case
is returnable in, Washington county
court.
ANGUS H. McLEOD.
Call to National Banks.
Washington. D. C. Xov. 21 The comp
troller of the currency to-day issued a
call for a statement f the condition of
all national banks at the close of busi
ness on Xov. 17.
Prominent Business Man of St. Albans
Died To-day.
St. Jolinsbury, Xov. 21. Angus H. Me
I.eod, for years president of the First
Xational bank and founder of and for
many year principal ow ner of. the A. If.
Mcl.eod .Milling Co.. died this morning
alter several months' illness. The fu
neral will l-e held Thursday.
Mr. Mi l.eo.1 was lorn in Glengary, On
tario, in lSt2. He owned a mill at Trot
River. X.,Y.. and in 1S71 came to St.
Jolinsbury, where he bought the at'ledo
nia mills, lie was made u director of
the Eir't National lank and in ISO.i was
! elected president, which office he held un
it il lat January, when be resigned on
jaiTotmt of ill health. He was also viee
; president of the Ely Hoe A. Fork Co. for
iiuii.beT ot' years and was a director of
J she I". A T. Fairbanks Co. and served the
v i!!;ge as trustee.
J lie leaves two daughters, Mrs. Jonas
I H. "rook and Mr. Arthnr I. Stevens
'ot M. John-bury and a son, Charles, in
IMroit, Miili. His wife died several
vcara aro.
