Peace' and '8 Hours' Win-Women Voters in Illinois
WEATHER Cloudy probably rain.
fm
0T70V
" Circulation, Books Open to All."
J "Circulation Books Open to All J'
PRICE ONE CENT:
Copjrislit, 11)10, br The rrns iubllhln
Co. (The Htw York World).
NEW YORK, MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1916.
?. G PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
a. -
-
MMML
JH JTOTOV
0
FRENCH CERTAIN TO LOSE ENTIRE ARMY;
CANNOT WIN WAR, SAYS VON HINDENBURG
VOTES OF 500,000 WOMEN ,
WILL SWING ILLINOIS AND
MAY DECIDE THE ELECTION
. Decided Majority
" A it
cago Apparently
Hughes Backers
in Rest of State.
Ily Marguerite Moacrs Marshall.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Eveni.ig World.)
L'llll'.UiO, OrTTSM. Mlml u 111 ho the h omen's xilc nn
the it omen's frontier ul freedom, tlic fnr-lliing battle-line of
Suffrage In the Slate of Illinois
"'t votes of the Stajjc may put him In tho White House.
For consider the cold arithmetic of tho situation:
In 11)12 the Illinois vote was divided as follows:
. exu-a Wilson. in:,,0IS: Toft. l'j3.G13; Itoosevelt. 38C.478.
Vllaotib piutu.iiy was a hare lS.r.70.
Had tlcre been no chance in the electorate, a reunited Itepubllcan
1'trly would havo Telt that Illinois was not even doubtful. Tor. going hack
eight year, to the ejection In li'OS. we have Taft receiving C2!),9:J votes
nil JJryan '150.735; tho sizable plurality of 170,122 thus accruing to Taft.
That plurality, linwcwr. Is considerably less than half
t lie .'iilO,(IOII registered uomen who may iiml "ill ote for 1'rosN
denllal eioeler.s on Not. 7, iihn are Hie first uoincn oust of the
JllssislirPto take tii'lite purl In n National election.
What mm: mIII I lie make of their exceedingly great prhl
leget Uhlrh iuank Ii It'll party, ulll benefit I
It I, admitted that Illinois Is a pivotal State, perhaps The Pivotal
Mate. Therefore It Is not exaggeration to say that tho future of tho
United States during the next four years may lie In tho hands of a com
j'.uatlvcly Miial) group of women aUmlttcd for the first time to the full
rights of citizenship, '
Ncut before bus there lieeii Mich a drastic test of nouicn's
pollllinl Judgment ami Integrity.
AMATEUR VOTER PUZZLES POLITICIANS.
.'o ono knows how tho women's ote is going. The political wiseacre
till own up his hands In despairing resignation. He has his proved re
lictions, his lulo of three, for establishing tho trend of tho professional
voters. Ho knows nothing nothlqg about tho amateurs. That being the
case, I, who am an amateur, shall try to show you the women's section of
the political picture as its outlines huvc cleared and sharpened for mo after
careful examination.
I have talked with the women leaders of tho two great political par
tie. I havo studied tho straw votes of women In many localities and
occupations. What seems to me most iinportnnt Is that I have Talked with
tho woman voter herself, wherever I could find her Jn her shop, at hec
typewriter, In her kitchen, on tho train, 'In tho restaurant, at her club. I
have talked with old women nnd young ones, with business girls and club
women, with housewives, mothers and professional women. This la the
Unimary of tho situation In Chicago:
Tho wontun In the street ear Is for Wilson. The Indy In the
limousine is for him almost n,s often us she Is for Hughes.
Tho wife nnd mother Is for Wilson. The social worker
Ii for Wilson. The professional woman Is for Hughes.
Tlfts National Woman's Party here, as elsewhere, Is on tho
warpath against Wilson; lint If Its organization of toting women
g not better in other Slates thnn In Illinois It cannot fill 11 1 its
threat of "swinging enfranchised womanhood against Wlhon
nd the Democratic Tarty'
The clubwomen, especially outside of Chicago, seem to pre.
fer Hughes.
Ono Interesting feature In tho local situation Is that there aro hun
dreds of Suffragist! not In tho least deluded by the red herring of tho
Federal amendment which Mr. Hughefl has drnwn across his trail. Tho
members of tho Chicago Equal Suffrage Club nro decidedly opposed to tho
methods of the National Woman's Party. Mrs. Georgo Pass, Chairman of
the Women's Bureau of tho National Democratic Committee, lsa 'pro
nounced Suffragist .
WOMEN OF TRADES UNIONS FOR WILSON.
The women of the trade unions are for Wilton as a unit.
The Hughes worker are almost willing to admit this, but they
believe they will carry "the housewife vote." Yet in the resi
dential wards one sees ten or fifteen pictures of Wilson In the
parlor windows between the lace curtains to one picture of
Hughee similarly placed. There are a number of strong Wilson
"Mothers Clubs."
Tho nlco little old woman who sat opposite mo In the dining-room of
the Auditorium, who was a disinterested visitor from Maine, told mo of a
dlicusalon between her Chicago sister and a group of friends.
"They all declared they wore going to voto for WilBon, If for, no other
' (Continued oa Tentn Page.)
'of Those in Chi-1,
r TXT't . 1 1
ror wnson, dui
Claim Strength
Tlio answer to that question mny bo the answer to
the Presidential election u week from to-morrow. In
this State there nro registered 600,000 women voters.
In the clly of Chicago there nro 300,000 of these voters,
If this' half, million of women swings Its strength to
Woodrow Wilson the great Stuto of Illinois probably
will be listed In the Democratic column. If the unit
million votes for Hughes, tho twenty-nlna-jotectordl
CHAIRMAN WILLCOX'ROFRANO DECLARES
GIVES HUgHES 31 0;HE WAS TRAWBY
F1ECI1AL VOTES
Puis New York, Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois and Michigan in
G. O. P. Column.
IN i:MP1RE. state.
'
wiibon ueauers irianning 10
Oftset Gain Alleged by
Republicans.
T 1 election of Charles K. Hughes
was ofllclnlly predicted to-day by
tho Itepubllcan National Committee.
Chairman William H. Wlllcox said:
"Between 310 and 325 electoral
votes are now, certain for Mr. Hughes,
I am not rc.nLawet to give out the
exact list of Rltos which will be
found In tho Ilepublfcnn column, but
we are nltoHdy assured of more than
300 votes In the Electoral College,
while only Ififl are neexwary."
Questioned as to how some of the
doubtful states wer classed, .Mr.
Wlllcox replied:
"New York, Ohio, Indiana, Llllnols
nnd Michigan will go Republican. In
Wisconsin there are varying currents
which affect tho situation, but I have
lecelvrd Information to-day that the
State can lie counted ns Republican,
in Utah, also, there Is n complex sit
uation dun to local tights.
New York State condition, how
ever, nro causing much uneuslness In
Republican circles, and there Is much
recrlmlnntlnn between national anil
State organization as to which is re
sponsible. Practically no work s-m
ilono by the State Committee for
Hughes until two weeks ago, nnd
meantime Wilson bad made great
gains In rural regions.
National managers accused .Mute
managers of being morn Interested In
electing Gov. Whitman thnn in M.
Hughe. The Governor's campaign
was criticised as seeking more per
sonal advuntngo than common party
good( Furthermore, there wns dls
puto over money. Not until tho State
Commlttco succeede'd In getting n
largo allotment from National Com
mittee treasury did up-Stato lender.!
get busy for Hughes.
Iteporfs lecclved to-day nt National
Headquarters indicated a decldcirfj
moro hopeful situation In Now York.
Ono committeeman, adopting football
languuge, said that tho Democrats
had run fhe ball down to the Itepubll
can live-yard line, Thcro tho Old
Guard had braced themselves nnd
were not only holding tho line, but
slowly pushing the ball back.
"Tile situation In Now York Is
growing better steadily," said Chair
man AVIIIcox. "I have had numer
ous conferences du-lng the last
thirty -sK hours with men In charge,
and them Is no doubt now that the
Kmplrn Stute's forty-five electoral
votes will be cast for Hughes."
President Wilson's plans for his
final drive through Now York have
been completed and In two days of
this week ho will endeavor to break
down this last stand made by the
Itepubllcan Old Guard,
Leaving I-ong Hranch ti-morrnw
night for lluffalo tho President's
travelling schedule Is so arranged
that he will pass through tho southern
tier of np-Htnto counties In daylight,
with brief stops at Hlrtghamton, i;.
mlru and othor cltlos along tho lino
of. tho Delaware, Lackawanna and
Western Railroad.
This keetlon Is tho weakest part of
the Republican lino, where lurge num
bers ilr voters among both Industrial
(Continued on Socond Page,)
IIKWKVS Hmill.lZKI) lllltl'K .It ICR,
S.I. in nouiuhlnt lor chlldrrn ind .MilM,
I t'ulwo bt N, I. t'U-wt 3uol Uoit.-AJ?u
FOLEY IN REVENGE
Denies He liver Sought Lead
er's Aid for Congressional
Nomination1.
ROUSED BY GRILLING.
ProsectitorBrings Out Facts in
"Under -the -Bridge"
Politics.
Michael A. Ilofrnno, on trial for
hlrlnK tho murder of bis political
rival, Michael Galmnrl In 1915, faced
Assistant District Attorney Hrothers
to-dny for a cnntlnua of the
savage nnd searching cross-examination.
Mr. Ilrotbcrs's questions wcro
not of a sort to bo received pleas
antly, even by ono not on trlat for
his llfo.
The accused man wns clearly un
der heavy self-restraint. Ha re
garded Mr. Hrothers with half. closed
eyes and braced himself aggressively
on t' ' arms of his chair as he faced
the prosecutor.
Q. You have iald tho establish
ment of your friend Rocks Cariilvnle
In James Street was a hotel and
rest urnnt; wasn't It a disorderly
house? A. t don't know,
Q. Wnsn't his plucn In One Hundred
nnd Fourteenth Street a simitar ro
sort? A. I didn't know It.
Q. How abosjt the Chatham Club
In Chinatown which ho ran? A. I
had nothing to do with It.
Q. Didn't Father Curry and the
police drlvn out Carnival to llrook
lyn? A. Why, no.
Q. Didn't you help drive him to
llrooklyu? Didn't you tell Carnivals ;
you wished ho uud all his crowd would
go to Hrooklyn anil stay there? A.
No.
These questions were meant to
destroy the contention of .Martin W.
Littleton that tho Galmnrl brothers
and their followers drove Carnlvalo
out from "under tho Hrooklyn Rrldgu"
and that tho murder of Mlko Oalmarl
was In rovongo for this oxllo.
Rofrano ndmlttcd Frank Fennlmoro.
one of tho conspirators In tho Gal
marl case, was not a member of the
Homo Rule Club, a Rofrano organiza
tion when Rofrano aided Fennlmoio
on a pistol carrying charge. One
Futlml, a Rofrano election district cap
tain, 'asked aid for Fennlmore, tho wit
ness said.
Q. You have said Galmari was not
successful against you In tho 1913 elec
tlon; Isn't It trim that Mlttliel hail
only ono vote mote than McCall In
Galmarl's district? A. That Isn't
what I understood,
Q4 Didn't Guluuil have you ulmost
out of business In 19H? Wasn't your
club bouse closed? A. Ho hail nothing
to do with It.
Q. You didn't do muoh In the dis
trict In 1911? A. No.
Q. Yet your friend Whitman was
running for Governor? A. Yes.
Q. Uut as soon as ho wus elected
Governor you ran up to Albany to
tell him how much you bail done for
blm nnd ask for fuvurs? A. I'd seen
him before.
Q. You were n close fnend and
ndmlrcr of Thomas Foley? A. Yes.
,Q. You fell out with blm? A. Yes,
DECLARES FOLEY "FRAMED"
HIM FOft REVENGE.
Q. Didn't you nsplte to go'to Con
gress lyid didn't he turn you down so
that Rcardou went to Congress? a.
L didn't ask his help.
q. Do you fay thut Tnomas Foley,
(Continued on Fourth Page )
RACING
RESULTS ON PACE 2.
ENTRIES ON PAGE 6.
HEIRESS WHO CAN'T
LIVE ON HE II INCOME
OF $2,000 A MONfH
Her $2,000 a Month Inade
quateHusband's $50 Salary
Doesn't Support Baby.
The hlirh cost of living is not alone
.' rirnlihmi for tin, U'rirUliiiniiiii. If lu '
b ginning to assert Its ctfeet in so
ciety to such an extent that Mrs.
Olua Kohler Florman, matron of
twenty-one. Is unrtblo longer to live
on JL',000 a month nnd maintain her
place In the upper set.
So heavily In debt has she plunged
herself, Surrogate Cidialan was told
to-day, additional allowance of
$.1O,0Cj Is Immediately nSVessary to
prevent creditors from taking huiu
maiy anion in court.
In another year she w II come tnt'i
one-third of the (2,000,000 estate left
by her father, Charles Kohler, piano
manufacturer.
Perhaps, If Mrs. Floruuin's husband
Nits Flormnn, was getting n larger
salary the wolf, would not hit bowling
'loiind their door. Hut Floiiiian, ac
cording to his wlfe'n petition for an
extra allowance, Is making only JMi a
week mid that doesn't begin to meet
the expensi) of eating for their only
child, Nils Kohler Florman, lined ono
year and nluo months.
Promissory notes iiggieguting 33,
000 uro about to fall due, the lieiriNS
told tho court. This umount was easily
obtainable 1-ecmiHc of the fnct$thut
Mrs. Florman is ho soon to come Into
possession of her routine. Unless
they nro taken up Immediately, sbo
rears court actions will result.
When tho baby was taken III last
spring, Mrs. Flormnn di Wared, It was
necessary to acquire a 'lU.ntry home.
To do this and p-iy various nurses and
doctors, alio wus obliged to borrow
$16,000. Sho also purchased a motor
lout uud a town car, which are as yet
unpaid fur. All told the debts amount
'to $13,000. Tho $23,000 mIio le. ele now
Is spent entirely on the upkeep of her
town house In Madison Avenue and
ily. country homo at Port Washing
ton. L. I.
Flormnn befure his marriage t- Miss
Kohler wok engaged to one 'f the'
Stallo heiresses, who latr u. 'i " d all
Italian prince
10 to (Ton hughes still
the prevailing odds
Flection bitting odds nn the curb
in the Wall Street region still slightly
favor HUKK, Various wageis aggre
gatlngi)f is.ooo weiu repotted then
this morning at 10 on Hughes to 'J
on Wllnn.
No largo amounts were placed, ns
both sides urn demanding better odds.
I Tho extremes of poMed odds are 10 to
8 1-2 on Hughes on tlie.onn ldn and
even money on Wilson on thu-other
side.
I
I
! 'm
OLGAV. KOHLER PLOQWAIst
HffiH COST OfUVING "
HITS MRS. ROHAN;
ASKS $50,000 MORE
mkbB declares day df reckoning.
in nrtMiiin m nniiHNiiiiiiin
Marina Had No Warning Is
Message of U. S. Consul
to Stale Department.
MAY REVIVE OLD ISSUE.
Not British Transport, U. S.
Agents Say Another Ves
sel's Boats Shelled.
LONDON, Oct. 30. A private tele
gram received nl the American Con
sulate this . 'trrnoon from Crookhnven
says thnt a number of Americans
were drowned when the Ilrltlsh
steamship Marina was torpedoed by
a Get man submarine.
In reply to nn Inquiry from th
American Fmbasay, the Admltalty
said to-dny that there were forty
nine American In the crew of .the
Marina,
WASHINGTON. Oct. SO. Destruc
tion of the Ilrltlsh horse transport
Marina by a German submarine',
without warning, with possible 'loss
of American lives, and tho endanger
ing of the lles of seven American
citizens In the submarine attack nn
the Ilrltlsh freighter Rowanmore, re
ported from quccnsfbwn to-day by
American Consul Frost, contnln pos
slblltles of reviving the sulxnurlne
Issue between the United Slates and
Germany.
Investigation, olllelnls realize, may
dlsclase that tiiete has been no vio
lation of Getman pledges to the
United States. Nevertheless, thi
first tcporls, Incomplete nnd trans
mlttei by the American Consul as
"ptovlslonal," caused some uneasi
ness. The report on the destruction of
the Marina refers to the ship as a
"Ilrltlsh horse transport." If It turns
out th.it she was In fact in the trans,
port service of the Ilrltlsh Govern
ment It mny be found that the mixed
crew of Ilrltlsh nnd American horse
tenders could claim nono of the Im
munity ngalnst attack without warn
ing that attaches to n merchant ship,
Ordera were despatched nt once to
gather nil Information to determine
the status of the Marina and her
crew.
Although no American lives were
lost in the submarine attnek on the
Rowanmore and tho ship altered her
own status If she inade nn attempt
to escape, olllelnls wcro disturbed by
the report that the boat were Micllc.I
nfler they had cleared from the
abandoned ship. Tho facts are ex
pected to be determined by Investi
gation which was ordered begun at
orfl'e.
The following Is a summary of Con
sul Frost's despatch:
Tho Ilrltlsh horso trnnsport Ma
rina, with a mixed crew of Ilrltlsh
ami Americans, wns ropoted sunk
without warning by German subma
rine gunllre at 3 P. M. (let. 2H, one
hundred miles west of Capo Clear ill
an oltlulul rlrt received at the State
Department to-dny frorn, Consul Fruit
at qiieenstown, Thirty-four of Mm
crew of 104 have been landed nt Crook
haven, while seventy others, presum
ably those In Isiats Nus, 1 and 3, are
missing Consul Fr st says his :n
tormatlou so far Is puiej) 'provl
sional Not a 'I'm naiMirt tn the llrllltli
st let".
SIJWPOUT Ni:WS. . Oct. 30 -At
the offices of the Putted Stales Shipping
Coinpuny, local 'ugi-litd for the Donald
.on Une, owners of the Minion, it was
Muted lo-(Uy tlist I lie M.irlni huh not
a ttnnport In tli sirvlre of the Itilu-li
Government
SIMMS) unit I iirnrMlr Mriliil fer One
rniril llrro Who Suril inn lilrU,
IIKI.OIT. Win.. II' t e Donald
.Sioops, ii onfiirined Melon I'nllegi'
HUill'llt. lo-llll lecelei n'lllie 1)1(1 1
he had been awarded a ('iinegli
tie tlni and K.'IM'I tor saving luo KHlr
(lorn diownhifc In llmv.uvu Luke,
ludlulu, lu 1913.
15 UUIVIIIMb I U KUUIV AIWd
Field Marshal von Hjndenburg on
. First Visit to Berlin Since War
Opened, Declares the British De
mand Sacrifices From theFrench.
FRENCH GENERAL NAMED
TO LEAD ROUMANIAN?
HI:Rl.fN (via Wireless to Sayville, L. I.), Oct. 30. "The Rou
manians still retreat ami their day of reckoning is coming," declared Field
Marshal von Hiiulenburg;, Germany's great war hero, wliojs payinDerliry
his first visit since the beginning of the vir. "I welcomed their entrance
into the war, for by it we got out of tiic trenches.
"The French have shown great tenacity, but they are exterminating
lives by their present method of fighting. All their tenacity will be of no
use to them and finally there will be none of them left. The French
nation owes this fate above all to theN-nglish.
"If the Ennll.lA.W lor anothsr "
olfansivu of the iimi style this
coming sprino, then they will rob
France of the rest of her army
and of the rest of her national
strength.
"This war wilt make no great
change In the estimate of Ilrltlsh mll
llnry accomplishments. Great stru
tetglsts, in particular, are lacking
nmon tho Ilrltlsh."
Replying to a question regarding
the reported uttnmpt ngalnst the life
of the queen of Roumanla, Field
.Marshal von Hlndenburg shook his
bead nnd said: "Attempts of this
kind always must bo condemned."
iThls Is the first report to reach
the United States of an attempt
against tho II fn of Queen Murln
of Roumnnla.
The Fluid Marshal then spoko about
thn visit to llerlln tfif tho Turkish
Minister of War, F.nvor Pashn, whom
ho called a "clear headed, honest and
trustworthy man and an excellent
soldier."
Tho Chief of Stuff oxpresscd his ad.
miration and respect' for tint llulgar
Ian King and tho Crown Prince of
Austria
The Field Marshal said that since
tho beginning of thu wur he had been
BERLIN CLAIMS BIG GAINS
IN ROUMANIAN BATTLES
French General Bertholet Said to Have Been
Sent to Command London Reports von
Falkenhayn Driven Back.
IIF.RLIN, vlu wireless to Sayville,
L. 1., Oct. 30. The French General
llertbulet has been appointed Commander-in-Chief
of tho Roumanian
army, with the Russian General lite
layev us bis assistant, French news
papers report.
The capture of several strongly de
fended positions near the Hungarian
Roumanian frontier was announced
to-dny by the War Olllce, In Do.
hriidja Field Marshal von Mncken
sen's fotees, continuing their pursuit
of the Russians and Roumanians,
have come lu contact with tho Itus
siatis. The announcement follows:
"Army gtoup of Archduke
rut: rut it i.n rit.WKi. tii'iir.Vu.
ArvjJe, I'miL.t iWudtl) tiuiUm.
6J Ul I'tlk Hon. ,N. V. CHjT
TltkiU. rixrutiou. t.i.iud, 4.O.. , tn nrf,
eu.Ii, CtunUt, C.OU.I .al smth Amintu
UriTBihlp lint. ItiijiM ut , v.rcl tbo- rrm
mn nj slft. Tittall.n ctircki aM union
(iilir. (gi Ml. Tilwiwot BMfciua tOOo.-i4l
on homo leave In order to seo his
family only seven days. 8peaklng cn
Jho Importance of sleep, ho suld:
"Tho main thing ts sleeping. Hoi
Mors must bo able to sleep that Is a
most Important quality." As for th
sleeping of army commanders while
great decisions wero going on, tho
Field Marshal suld: "Why not? Jf
everything goes as you want it, then
sleep, perhaps somewhat less sound,
and If everything Is well, then, of
course, you sleep all tho better."
On his arrival hero Field Marshal
von Hlndenburg became tho object
of demonstrations throughout the
city. Shopkeepers hung out IUs and
crowds usaemblod, anxious for a
glimpse of Germany's war hero.
Hlndenburg wns first received by
the Kaiser ut Hellovuo Palace, and
later, with his wlfo and daufhtet.
dined with tho Kaiser and Kalsartn.
It Is understood thnt he met soma tit
the Government hcadji after tola con
ference with tho Kmperor.
The Kaiser spent several hours In
llerlln Saturday. After visiting a city
soup kitchen nnd eating aomo of the
cnbbugo and meat stow, Ills Majeaty
received a long report from Chancellor
von liothmnnn-Hollweg,
Cljarles Francis: In tho wooded
Carpathians, on tho Hungarian
Roumanian frontier and in the
mountains adjoining to tho south
tho weuther was rainy and qvJot
prevailed. Only patrols wero ac
tive. "Southeast of Rothenthurm Pass
the success obtained on the pre
ceding day by tho Hanoverian and
Mecklenburg rifles was enlarged,
and several tenaciously defended
Roumanian positions 0n the
heights were taken by storm.
From the last engagements In this
district eighteen ottlcer'a and more
than TOO men have been brought
back prisoners.
"Southeast of Sxurduk Pass the
Roumanians pushed back one of
our columns.
"In Northern Dobrudja our pur-
1
