A S ach day aam ti tlaingWgg NG ta HERALD
ang proof day by day of fact
day's activiti-.ocal, national WASthat the MORNING new is the
and internat form thir opin- -fmost DEPENDABLE new source and
ions from th news .presented in the the most USEFUL adv medium
mornmg newppers. for both merh t
NO. 3664. WEATHER-FAL ~ WASHINGTON. D. C., MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1916. ONE CENT
CRITICISM HELD
RESULT OF PLOT
Adinistratioit Officials Be
lieve Mexican ffcia s
Act in Concert.
Administration officials profess to be
Jim that the highest officials of the Mex
ican goyernment, including Gen. Car
ransa are making a concerted attempt
to affect the political situation in the
United States. This belief is based on an
extraordinary number of statements,
critiefising the administration and attack
lng Amerisca official, that have come to
the attention of the State Department in
the last twenty-four hours.
The statement was given out here Sat
vrday by the Mexican Embassy's official
news bureau. and credited to Luis Ca
bars. which Cabrera disavowed yester
dy was in part substantiated yesterday
by the Mexican Embassy.
Carvansa Also Critical.
Almost simultaneousiy with these
statements the State Department has re
ceived from its agents in Mexico City
copies of interviews authorized by Car
ranza. accusing President Wilson of fail
ure to keep faith with Mexico, and a
statement by (en. Pablo Gonzales, pub
lished In Carranza's official organ in Mex
ico City, accusing Mr. Wilson ot lack of
frankness and of an "unclean' policy.
The Cahrera denial of the interview
chara terizing American border officials
as 'supine' Is ,ortid-red here as diplo
mratic. but sufficent to prevent this gov
ertnment front takiig official cognizance.
Ambasador-designate Arrendondo made
this stat.ment cnerning it yesterday:
Speaking about the situation in gen
n. nd ee, ially in Chihuahua, as to
l 1w .ll .1 hen able to cause such
irm. Mr. 'ahrrra said, not for publica
Ii atd wit'hot -xpe tation that his re
k vnuli be ued
The American government could help
t ir-nasing its vigilance to prevent
ammunition from getting into the hands
of Villa and by explling from the United
States a great number of Mexican refu
g who are .ery well known as enemies
th, de facto government of Mexico.
This the American government could do
strilcty within the province of American
neutra.ity laws.' "
Wrtien Without Authority.
Mr Arredondo declared that the above
staterent repreFnted all Cabrera said.
IIe added that the statement was writ
ten without authority, with the writer as
sming to ompose the statement under
hora's name.
4abrera. in addition to being chairman
of the Mexican section of the joint
American-Mexican Commission, over
whose sessions he presides alternately
with Secretary Lane. is sec tary of
finance of Mexico. The fact h is
considered the strongest man in the Mex
ican cAbinet added. In the view of of
iclal here, to the gross impropriety of
his statement.
The offense against the government, in
the Cab --ra-Arredondo utterances, it was
-rd. w;- that Calrera, as the represet
yeiv- of the Mexican government, made
rentatiorA to the American press
rather than to the commission or to the
State Te'aurtment. If a diplomat had
1.+n gmity . f cuh an affront, it was
,a at wa the ase in tho Instance of
t:.temi I-, Th.. Turkish Ambassador to
:,,, unt '. s woahl reI'r himself
-rsona not grata an his recall would
reluested t the State Department.
SHADOW LAWN STIRRED
BY MEXI CANCRITICISM
Telephone Wires to Washington Are
Kept Humming.
I By the imtersational News Service.)
Or N-w York. (,t. 29-rhe statement at
tribuld to L.uis Cabrera. charging Presi
lent Wilson with inconsistencies amount
ing to had faith revived the Mexican
controversy here today with startling ef
feet.
As soon as the Cabrera statement
rracheri Shadow lawn. telephone wires
Ibetween the executive offices and Wash
ington were made busy. Later it was
announced Ambassador Designate Ar
redondo authorized a denial from Cabrera
which amounted almost to an apology.
An hour later there was communicated
to Secretary Tumulty extracts from a
magazine article which quote First Chief
Carranza, Alvero Obregon, Pablo Gon
zales and Candido Aguilar. They were
strangely similar in language and sub
stance to the charges alleged to have
been made by Cabrera. A copy of the
information was telegraphed to Secretary
Lansing and late this evening word came
from Washington that Senor Arrendondo
was again ready to make satisfactory
9snials.
PORCH ROBBERS GET $1,000.
Irvington-on-Hudson. Oct. 3.-Another
burglary was added to the list of the
past two weeks when the home of Charles
". Paulding, counsel to the New York
Z'entral Railroad and nephew of former
United States Senator Chauncey M. De
ew, was entered this evening and Jew
els valued at $1,000 stolen.
The burglars entered the house by the
second-story porch and ransacked his
bedroom and that of his mother on the
same floor.
New Way to Kill Rats.
Cape Town, Oct. 29.--A new way to kill
the rate whleh infest the trenches is res
Ntorted hy a South African officer writing
'rom Franc -. Hie says: "We found one
,f our men putting a bit of cheese on
sis bayonet and firing a rifle every time
Srat started to eat it."
$1.50
*NOVELS
Free to You
See .the Want Ad&-youl Gad
this opportunity and scores of
naihen there.
=01A~ 722,000 OIGAURTUk
TiNm DaME TO SWEAR ON7
0ag. N. J.. Oct. U.-After uonon a
daily avoerge of sixty Cigarettes for
thirty-tbree years. Judge Edward W.
Woodman, of the Police Court herm. hasI
quit "the wicked wed"' under prders of
his physician.
Judge Woodman said today that since
he began smoking he had used appro
mately 72700 cigarettes. If they al were
made in one roll he would have a cigar
ette thirty-four miles long, valued at
$7,327.
Judge Woodman said he was surprised
to find that if he required ten minutes to
,smoke each cigarette he spent nearly
fourteen years doing away with the 7200
items in his record.
COAL QUEST FAILS
Shortage to Continue All Win
ter, Fear of Dealers.
There is no relief In sight this week
from the coal shortage in Washington.
This statement was made last night by a
representative of the J. Maury Dove Coal
Company, which supplies a number of
government buildings.
Every effort is being made to avert a
real famine, but so long as the car short
age continues occupants of the larger
buildings in the Capital will suffer. Hear
ing of the shortage of coal, many rest
dents have increased their orders from
ene ton at a time to quantities sufficient
for the winter.
It was believed in some quarters that
the car shortage would result In the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal being pressed
into service. but J. Maury Dove, Jr.. last
nirht said the canal management has its
own contracts to fill and faces a labor
shortage.
D. M. Fisher, freight agent for the P.
& 0. Railroad. said the coal problem
probably w.'uld be a continuous one
throughout the winter, as the car and
labor shortage cannot he overcome.
One measure suggested is to increase
freight car demurrace charges to a pro
hibitive rate.
Superintendent Thurston. of the publ
schools, has arranged to transfer coal
from one school to another as needed.
It is prohnhie that the Board of Educa
tion will appeal to the Commissioners for
funds for this worl:.
The entire South is feeiing the effects
of the shortare. Birmingham, in the
heart of the South's largest coal field, is
seriously threatened and many public
institutions there may close.
U. S. WIRELESS CENSORS
RELIEVED FROM POSTS
Allowed Transmission of Unneutral
Messages Is Charge.
Lieut. Charles S. Clarke. of the navy.
has been relieved of duty as wireless
censor at the Sayville station. Lieut. H.
. Keep has likewise been relieved of
duty at r asconset.
The removal of the two offieers was
due to the request of a foreign nation.
11understood to he Great Britain, and was
based on charges that th-v had per
mitted the transmission of urneutral mep
sages.
It was stated unofficialy yesterday that
tie messages which led to the removal of
Ithe two iffieers related to the German
submarine --1
The order for the reassicnmnt of 1Linut.
Clarke was issued on October 13. live
days after the L'-%, sank several vessels
near the Nantucket LIghtship. The date
of Lieut. Keep's removal could rot be
learned at the Navy Depa-iment. A
great effort has been made to k-ep the
whole matter secret.
It is understood that the request for
the removal of the two oIrs was re
ceived by the Navy Depa rtynt from the
State Department in such form that the
Navy Department had no option but to
grant it.
96 AND STILL PREACHING.
Des Moines. Iowa. Oct. 29-Rev. Ben
jamln Brunning, of Boone, Iowa, 96 years
old, is the oldest minister in the United
States in active charge of a pulpit for the
Unitarian Church.
Rev. Mr. Brunning declares that he ex
pects to be more than 100 years old.
Rev. Mr. Brunning was accompanied at
the conference by his son, N. B. Brugning,
of Boone. 71 years old, whom his father
'declared he still was able to take Into the
woodshed "and tan his hide."
MEXTCAN PAPER DEFIANT.
Mexico City, Oct. 29.-El Universal, in
commenting today on press dispatches
on press dispatches saying Villa
was in co-operation with various ex
patriated Mexicans and preparing to raid
some frontier American town to create
rurther difficulties between the two gov
ernments, says that the Mexican gov
ernment is resolved that khe demand in
its last note relative to preventing
American forces from advancing a single
foot farther into the country shall be
observed.
RESCUES CHILD FROM PILOT.
La Crosse, Wis, Oct. 29.-Coon Valley
residents are talking of 'applying for a
Carnegie medal for Fireman Peter Hens
gen. of the La Crosse and Southeastern.
He was in a freight engine cab when he
saw a child in the distance on the trad9.
It was down grade and the brakes were
slow to grip. ~Hensgen climbed Out along
the footboard to the pilot, grasped the
sleeping child with his free hand and
lifted her from the track.
TOOK A RATT.ROAD STATION.
Passaic. N. J.. Oct. 29.-Presenting a
bogus order from the general offices of
the Erie Railroad Company at Jersey
City, William Lancaster, 20 years old, of
Central avenue, this city, gained entire
possession of the Prospect Street Station
of the Erie late yesterday and failed to
get more than $100 in a safe. Lancaster
was arrested early today and admitted
his guilt.
WOWE WORKERR ORGANIZING.
Boston, Oct. 29.-A movement to or
ganise women workers and also demand
ing more pay for them was started here
last night by Miss Mabel GillespIe, grad
uate of Radcliffe and member of the
State Minimum Wage Comnmissioa.
"Women are bound to organise soon,"
said Miss Gillespie. "Even the do.m...ic
workers will be comspelled to form a
union for mutual pretseti.
MOLTEN STREAM
STRIKES FRENCH
Advance of Teutons Behind
Liquid Fire Screen Fails.
(By the Internatieal News servie.)
Paris, Oct. 29.-Further successes for
the French and British in local encoun
era along the Somme are announced off
cially tonight. This afternoon a furious
German attack in the sector of La
Maisonette, south of the Somme, was
broken up by the French fire.
The Teutons had concentrate4 large re
serves and brought to the fr a num
ber of the giant pumps from which they
direct streams of flaming liquids against
the opposing trenches.
They advanced behind a perfect screen
of liquid fire, but the well-directed fire
of the French artillery not only broke
up their molten curtain, but broke up
the rank.s of the onrushing infantry.
A hot machine gun fire poured into the
Teuton columns from the French
trenches completed the rout and the sur
vivors hurriedly sought the cover of tHeir
own trenches.
Following gains Gen. Foch's troops
during the night in the sectors of Sailly
Saillisel, north of the Meuse, and Biaches,
south of the river, Gen. Htaig's British
forces this morning resumed their op
erations northeast of Les Boeufs. A new
advance was registered.
During the day the Germans directed
a heavy artillery fire against the British
lines north of the Somme. while, on the
Verdun front, they kept up their furious
bombardment of the French on the Hau
dromont-Douaumont sector.
314 ELECTORAL VOTES
CLAIMED FOR HUliHES
Chairman Willcox Expresses Certainty
of Victory.
New York. Oct. 's.-'-The campaign in
practically ended and there is nothing to
it but th. electinn of Hughes." said Will
I m ri Wi I c x, chairman of thi Re
publican ommittee at Republican na
tional headquarters here today. When
the votes are counted on the night of
November 7 it will be found that at least
214 Hughes and Fairbanks electers have
been chosen and It may be a coinsiderable
number more. I look for an old-time Re
publican victory. Everything points that
wy.
"Remnh..r that this is a IHepublican
country. There are more Republicans In
it than there are Democrats. The Repub
licans outnumber the Democrats in nor
mal times by more than a million. They
outnumber the Democrats in many
States, and the aggregate of the elec
toral votes of the sure Republican States
is much greater than the aggregate of
the electoral votes of the sure Demo
cratic States.
it Is only when the Republican party
is suffering from somei untoward circum
stances such as operated against it fur
years ago that the Democrats have any
chlance to win a national election in this
country.'
HURT CHASING CAT QUARTET.
hi-aco. 0,-t. '1-A "concert" hv four
cats in the back yard of her home was
indirectly re splosible for Mrs. Anne E.
Bruns dislocating her left shoulder late
last night. Mrs. Brurs was awakened by
the quartet's nerve-racking "melodies."
and In chasing the catS she stumbled over
some rubbish in the yard.
GARLIC CROP WINS PRIZE.
Whittier, Cal.. Oct. 29-Hayes Ku-ser
has shown the ranchers of this vicinity
that there may be money in other crops
than oranges, lemons and walnuts, for
the young oman has won the contest of
the agriculture club for raising garlic.
Keiser netted 387 from a quarter of an
acre of garlic. Gardening at this rate
would show better than $350 per acre.
Compet it
That Washington Ad
from EVENING to N
The figures below are
page of the Evening Star
1916. .
Two Yeai
ADVER
Be
The Evening and Sunday Star... 5
The Daiy and Sunday Post.....3
The Evening and Sunday Thiaes. .2
The Morning and Sunday Herald.1
According to ti
Total Morning Newspaper GAD
Total Evening Newspaper GAD
Total Mornng CAIN Over Eme
Ola
Mormingt
.GA
Avitin Held Chief
Bulwark in War Time
(By laternetimal News lervies.)
New York. Oct. 29.-Aviators
are destined to be of greater
value In time of war than the
army and navy combined. Rear
Admiral Robert N. Peary de
clared today in an address at
Mount Morris Baptist Church.
Admiral Peary said France
had as many aviators as there
are soldiers in the United
States and that the British
filers outnumbered enlisted men
in the United States navy. He
advocated a government depart
ment of aeronautics.
Telegraph Tp
Philadelphia. Pa.. Oct. 2.-Falling be
neath the wheels of an ash wagon. Den
nis Heston. 16 years old, of 227 Ann
street, was run over and killed.
Newport. R. I.. Oct. 29.-Lieut. Col. Cor
nelius Vanderbilt, Mrs. Vanderbilt and
their children. Miss Grace Vanderbilt and
Mr. Cornelius Vanderbilt. Jr.. have ar
rived from New York to pass a few days
at Beaulieu, their villa.
Newport News, Va., Oct 29-The steam
ship William A. McKenny, sixth of a fleet
of seven being built here for the Crowell
& Thurlow Steamship Company, of Bos
ton, was launched here yesterday. All
will *team under American register.
Newport. R. L. Oct. 29.-The steam
yacht Alberta has returned from New
York. where she was prepared for the
proposed scientific expedition of Dr. and
Mrs. Alexander Hamilton Rice and three
members of the Royal Geographical So
lety to the Amazon.
Binghamton. N. Y., Oct. 29.-Twelve
thousand employes of Endicott Johnson &
Co.. shoe manufacturers, yesterday cele
i-rated with a parade the granting of an
eight-hour day. The working day has
been reduced from nine and one-half
hours with no reduction in wages.
Keansburg, N. T. Oct. 29.-Mrs. Jane
Johns,. 94 years old, who lived alone
in a house in Granville Patk. was burned
L6 death Friday. Although blind, she in
sisted on having lighted lamps at night.
It is thought she sought to place a lamp
on a table and dropped it.
Haskell. N. Y.. Oct. 29.-Harry Small
wood, of New York City, and Joseph
Jarro, of Haskell, two of the seven men
burned in a powder flare-up at tile du
Pont powder works here Friday, are dead.
The other live are getting along all right
and with the exception of Horace Charles
Sully probably will recover.
Lexington. Ky.. Oct. 29.-"Uncle Bill
Stevens. an eccentric character, sold his
whiskers. the pride of his life. to a city
official here for $2. after he had been toid
that a true follower of Woodrow Wilson
should be proud to have a "close shave"
and should not wear the distinctive
whiskers of Mr. Hughes.
Hillsdale, Ohio. Oct.V 29.-Too young at
0 to retire. Professor John F. Downey
has gone to reorganize and administer
the department of mathematics in th'
'niversity of Ilanking. China. He is a
recipient nf the Carnegie Retirement
Fun,l. at, cannot tea(h for pay. hen
his work in China will he grituitous
Baltimore, Md.. Oct. 29.-Miss Rebecca
Whiting Parran. daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Samuel Parran. was married to
Lieut. Benjamin Fiery Hoge. Tenth Cav
alry, 1'. S. A.. coach of the Army foot-'
[all team and son of Mr. and Mrs. Will
lam M. Itoge, of Culver. Ind., at the hme
of the bride's parents yesterday.
Salem. Mass., Oct. 29.-The jury in the
case of Mayor Albert L. Bartlett and four
Iaverhill city officials, charged with fall
ure to suppress A. riot growing out of a
discussion of religious subjects on April
:. has returned a verdict acquitting Mayor
Bartlett on one count and Charles P.
Hoyt. commissioner of public safety. on
two counts,
lve Proof
vertisers Are Turning
[ORNING newspapers.
reproduced from the first
of Saturday, October 21,
s' Growth
TISING
tal lives sit Total lines six
oaths ending months ending
pt. 3. 1914. Sept. 1, 1916.
,341,035 -5,847,287 506,252 gain
,025,612 3,291,508 265,89 gain
,339,825 2,109,566 230,259 loss
612,419 2,289,376 676,957 gain
eC Evening Star
............942,853 lines
.............275,993lines
nug...........666,86O0lines
A
ewspaper
ARLY
er Cent
RUMANIANS BEAT
BACK INVADERS
Three Repulses Reported In
flicted on Falkenhayn.
(By we Internatieal News Serviee,)
London, Oct. 29.-The Rumanians. te
nAciously defending their northern fron
tier, have inflicted three severe repulses
on Von Falkenhayne's Austro-Gerinan
armies,
They have recaptured the village of
Livechi,- north of Campolung, and on the
direct road to Bucharest. taking 300 pris
oners and five machine guns.
By a strong blow in the Alt Valley.
farther to the west, they have drtven the
invaders back six and a half miles. while
In the valley of the Jiul the Austro
Germans who had reached TirgujiuliJ
were defeated. The Rumanians at this
point took 900 prisoners, two mountain
howitzers and eleven machine guns. An
official statement from Bucharest asserts
that Rumanian troops are pursuing the
Austro-Gennana, who are withdrawing
to the mountains.
The announcement of the Rumanian
victories is made in an offcial statement
Issued by the Russian war offlice. Ber
lin makes no mention of the fighting in
the Alt and Jiul valleys in the statement
on Von Falkenhayn's operations made
public today. Regarding the fighting
south of Tomeeser Pass, where the Teu
tonic armies are striking at Campolung.
further advance is claimed despite strong
Rumanian resistance.
Meanwhile in Diobrudja the mad flight
of the Russo-Rumanian armies contin
ues. They already have retreated far
north of Itirsova.
JAPANESE AMBASSADOR
TO CALL ON PRESIDENT
Viscount Saito Will Present His Cre
dentials Today.
illy the Internatiemal News Service.l
Asbury lrk, N. J.. Oct. 2.-Viscount
Airnano Saito,. recently designated by the
Mikado as Ambassador to the United
States. will be received and present his
credentials to President Wilson at Shadow
L~awn tonorrow. The Japanese diplomat
will he accompanied by Third Assistant
Secretary of State William Phillips and
an honorary escort of his own country
men. The occasion wIll be marked by
much ceremony.
Later in the day Mr. Wilson will re
eele President Watson and the executive
committee of the National Association of
(Comm"issioners of Agriculture.
This morning Mr. and Mrs. Wilson sur
prised the natives br taking a long stroll
on the boardwalk at Long Branch.
"Pdstscript" Charges Caled
Fictitious by Breckenridge
New York. Oct 29.-Henry S. Breckin
ridge. former Assistant Secretary of War.
today denounced the attack of Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge on President Wilson
as "beneath contempt. Mr. Breckinridge
also characterized S,'nator Lodge's alleged
irformant as " seedrel.
The statemnI of the tormer Assistant
Secretary of War is in the form of a
telegram which he sent to a Philadelphia
newspaper, which called his attention to
Senator Lodge's declaration that Presi
dent Wilson had added an appendix to
the "strict aecountability" note to the ef
feet that its contents were not to be
taken seriously anld that he suppressed
it only after several members of the Cab
net had threatened to resgin.
SHOOTS DOWN WIFE.
Man Then Makes Vain Attempt to
Kill self.
New York, Oct. 79.-Before the eyes of
an astonished crowd, Benjamin Rovner.
a motion picture operator, shot his wife
dead beneath the New York Central via
duct, at 107th street and Park avenue.
tonight. As she fell, Rovner turned his
pistol on her sister. Stella Weiss. with
whom she had been taking a walk when
he slipped up behind them. The bullet
intended for Miss Weiss did not touch
her, but she fell over the body of her
sister and lay still. This maneuver prob
ably saved her life.
Rovner next fired a shot toward his
own head. The bullet went through his
hat without even grazirg him. He was
arrested a few minutes later.
BOY WEDS HIS TEACHER.
Memphis Tenn.. Oct. !.-He is 16 years,
snd she is 22. They are married, and
they are happy.
Two years ago Miss Sadie Patrick, of
Arlington, came to (Memphis and secured
a position in the public schools. She had
one pupil to whom she became greatly
attached. He was James L. Yarbrough,
at that time 14 years old.
This fall James was in the fifth grade.
Miss Patrick was again his teacher.
School ran along smoothly for a month.
Then the principal noted a marriage
license had been issued to James L. Yar
brough and Miss Sadie Patrick.
PREDICTS BIG ERUPTION.
Red Bluff, Cal., Oct. 29.-"Mount Las
sen is only sleeping.'' That is the be
lief of Verden Bashore, a scientist who
comes from Los Angeles to study the
old mountain. Bashore has made sev
eral trips to the summit of the volcano.
viewing all craters, and comes to the
conclusion that the mountain is not dead,
but will likely burst forth in a terrific
eruption.
French War Loan Closed.
Paris, Oct. 29.-SubscriptionD't the sec
ond French war loan closed today. The
loan, it is said, is a great success, al
though no official statement has yet been
made. It is expected that the figures
will be announced by the government
within a few days.
Famine Sweeps Over Greece.
Athens, Oct. 29.-14ann Is sweepig
Thessaly and Peloponiosus, according to
word brought here. The population has
been unable to get eorn or flour.
Forty Injured in Explosion.
Rome, Oct. !!.-Forty persons were
more or less seriously injured here today
by the explosion of a huge oxygen fac
toy
COLLEGE FOR OBO TO OPEl;
WILL TEACK "VADRANCY LAW"
Chicago, Oct. 3.-The first terr of the
college for hoboes, which is sponsored by
James Ends How. at. Louis' "millionaire
hobo," will open here next week. Event
ually $3,000 will be spent toward an en
dowment fund. For the winter $1,50 is
available and a building now is being
sought.
The term hobo is to be discarded In
favor of "migratory unskilled laborers"
and the coliege is planned to give a sort
of post graduate course to the college of
hard knocks.
Sanitation and moral values, organiza
tion of the wanderers, vagrancy laws
and the rudiments of economics are to
comprise the curriculum.
CARDS HIT"ANTIS"
Suffrage "Poison Pen" Postal
Attack Denounced.
Sensational charges that anti-suffrage
forces throughout the country are being
attacked with "poison-pen' postcards
which accuse the "antis" of an, alliance
with the liquor interests, are Included in
a statement Issued last night by Mrs.
Arthur M. Dodge, president of the Na
tional Association Opposed to Woman's
Suffrage.
'"The latest and most cowardly suffrage
scheme," says Mrs. Dodge's statement.
"is the endless chain, anonymous, poison
pen postcard plot. These cards are being
mailed to all parts of the country, telling
recipients that 'for postive proof that
anti-suffragists are working with the
liquor interests and receive financial as
Fi'tance from them, send 10 cents' to a
suffrage publication in New York.
The cards, say, Mrs. Dodge. all ero
twith the request: "Please copy thee
lines on a hundred postcards and send to
a hundred respectable people or a hun
dred Christians."
'I am moved again to make a formal
and offial dental that there Is any con
nection whatsoever between the anti-suf
tragists and the liquor interests.' says
Mrs. Dodge.
"Surely, villification. abuse and slander
are tactics not worthy of any woman
The reputations of wives, mothers and
sisters will be liable to organized. under
handed and anonymous attacks If the
female politician is given more power.
"As a matter of fact, the anti-suffragists
have never been financed by the liviyor
interests to the extent of a single penny.
SCHOOLBOY ENWINEER
COMPANIES PROPOSED
Dr. Van Schaick Tells of Plan to Ex
tend Military Training.
A plan to increase the scope of military
training in the public schools of the Ti
trict was outitned by Rev John Van
Schaick, president of the Board of Fdtu
cation, in an address at the Metropo:itan
A. M. E Church last night.
In adaitlon to cadet Infantry drills.
it is proposed to form engineering com
panies which will he instructed in bridge
building and other enrineering p-ohlems.
These companie ar, to contitute 0
separate uit. with distinctive come, :tion
in the annual critests. They will not
be given infantry drill.
It is hoped an arrangemrrent can ho
made with District oMeals herehy the
students may get practical exleriene
(Commissioner Xutz has a:.proved the
plan.
"To start with.' said Dr. Van F Isk
'companies could he formed at t e Mc
Kinley and Armstrong High 1ch1onfis and
later at other schools. Bridges could be
constructeu in Rock Creek Park and
many of the repairs and tmprovements at
schools could be made by the students."
KEPT GIRL CAPTIVE IN QAVE.
Shoemaker's Prisoner Alnost Blind
and in Ra- When Found.
Youngstown. Ohio, Oct. -Imprisoned
in a sub-cellar at the county intirmary
near here for more than ten ionths.
Marie Higgins. aged 21. emerged from
her prison toda' almost bliimd. mon-g
eIated and dressed in rags. Joe Strak.
aged 41, a shoemaker employed about
the infirmary, was arrested. charged with
detaining the girl.
Serak kept his shop in a little room
directly adjoining a small cavity in
which he imprisoned the girl. So di,
was it that the girl's cries were unh' rd
and infirmary officials thought she had
run away from the institution. When
found it was several hours before she
could talk. Serak only released the girl
on becoming afraid she might die.
MOONSHINER A CHURCH 2TTAR.
Nashville. Tenn. Oct. " -Government
agents reached Nashville yesterday with
Jazen Haddoek, an aged and respected
dtizen of Linden. Tenn., whom they claim
as "the king of the Tennessee Wildcat
ters." or moonshiners.
Haddock was arrested. the officers said.
as he finished leading a prayer in the
Linden church, of which he is a pillar
For forty-two years. according to the
[government's agents, he has been one of
the most respected members of the com
munity. And for forty years. they charge.
'he has been at the head of one of the
biggest moonshine distilleries in the
moonshine belt.
CLEVET.AJDERS EATING GOAT.
Cleveland. Ohio, Oct. 3.-The high cost
of living has driven Cleveland to goat
meat, according to JI. L. Hildebrand, a
local wholesale meat dealer.
Goat meat which sells for 16 cents a
pound. is being consumed in large quan
tities In Cleveland, Hildebrand stated.
"And if you don't let it get your goat
its just as edible as lamb," Hildebrand
claimed.
LUCK CROWDED INTO HOUE.
Boston, Oct. 3.-Miss Helen storey, of
Malden, formerly a Maiden telephome
operator, found a pocketbook ontainag
S, which she had lost the previous eve.
ig, and within an hour later become the
brie o WmsmHenry Bastry, of Mai
bde at t.Pal' Church,
Miss Storey resigned and on her way
home lost her pocketbook- Then she
found the pocketbook and money in the
mud of Main street. She had just time
to ijash home, citange her dress and hurry
tthe chureh isg th
AS I WOULD ACT
IN WHITE HOUS
IY C. E. n"W_
Candidate Makes Declaration
of Principles in Formal
Statement.
(By the Internatieal News Serviee.,
New York. Oct. 29.-The question.
"What will you do If you are ected
President'' hurled at Charles Eans
Hughes ever since the campaign started.
was answered by the Republican cand
date tnight.
In A statenent i,-sen out by the Repub
['can National Committee under, Mr.
Hughes' signature and entitled -My con
ception of the Presidency." he says:
*you ask what road I propose to travel
These are the milestones which mark It
an Exccutive responslbiity to the wholi
nation. a Cabinet chosen from the abe't
Americans. a foreti-n policy that stands
courteously but firmly for Amerle-n
right. a flag th<at protects the Amei,-,
in his !awful rights pheresei .is eri.
mate business may take him, a pr,.paTa
tion for trade competition which shalj
protct all groups of Amrican workins.
a government oversight - I ,sInoF-ss Vhi- h
will fearlessl' eulrint, !ad bisines.
but which u i1 art on th- assumption
that th average bucness man in hoinest.
and finally the dlom-stic policy which
looks to industri, peace and to sound
and permanent prospe-ty hased u.pon the
developrnit cf Amerin irtr-dr and the
bulding up of Amert-ern indt ,
statement in Fll.
Th1. 't 'ment In fu. feoji.
'tn the eve of election day ft.
American. people are eritilled t, Th
suminary of the thing. I h., - t51
for in this campaign. as the, r -
things I shall stand for a* Priesden
"No man can tell in advance what
unexpected demands the .ext four
years may present, but on' V1 -
conceptions of the Ptesidet Vs duty
r,-sts uporn fundamenta: prin 1.iee all
de-rib- with entire since-! ho- the
proh1 ;- of adntnistrations n . uld he
atpproa-hed and in what p rit they
would he solved.
"A man charged witit the duty ,f
reachIng a desired goal ki- a that the
road to it Is found In followig that
path which sound Iudgmtent and lear
vision open step by step I can show
the road I expert to trusvet
"I propose first of all to start rigbt.
The President is primarir an execu
tve. It is his supreme duty to sitend
to the business of the nation. to safe
guard its intere.ts. to enticipate Its
to- d. to enforce its laws
Would G*ther Able Cusfes.
"The first act of a President who taken
!t'is view of his duties is to call about
him the ablest Cahinet the cortr,
furnish. me-n who can deal aith the tr
mendous interniational and do-mr
prr-hietm whi-h w!I: cotnfro-t - in I t
Infxt feur ea-s
"My coiception of the P-'-i n
fers absolutely from that of Ni.
on. I look upon t I!,,
adriinIstrativ- hesd ,, the g-er
He looks upotn the P1r.rent
tIhe olftlfo le -r -, 'n -
the raton.
tions- -. Isn '-c. - .. e
1 r1hyt r "t n, ~ n
CHARGED WITH PASSINi
$100,000 IN BAD COIN
H. R. Witken Arrested Afer CA
Lasting Six Year5.
Yhs- riI;k,,. i- ,'-- 5 *1
cordin; to an nnnoun.-, t -, a',.
here. 'nit-d State S S. -, -1-.- 1e
Wit'l " . i n I I' - .P " -
Service Bureau. tmads t1, ".1--j.
of the arrest. =h -h f: . I ';I I, -.z a
Ie moFt important in 1!-r iliT i- .
departm"ent. ie wa. a' :sd ,f tie .
ii-o of the alieged r ce- e,
--ph 'tiCPsS~gPs P5t IT- - :s Cl"a'i:?
V ihi the arrest of Wi1: c i ': a .,
leriea o.rat--a pot po. soTlon o
a-usei numtb r of pha-s ulneh hii ieu,
crdig t Mir F., n, --prCeed i
lever- t han it-k - ;- .....- p,
<ver captured iy the FVdr, : ui -. ,
HER BARN STARTED A FEUD
Hackensack. N. J . Oct o - -F, s-.
colored family pref.rr is tie j,
w hich now adorn, the lawn vf the beau
tiful home of Mrs. Maud E King. at
lidgewood. N. J. and which is the cli
max of the long-standing feud between
Mrs. King and her neighbors.
"They brought It uponi themoselves
said Mrs. King. "Everythlig %- rt along
nicely until about a year and a half ago.
%hen I bought a horse snd erected a
barn in the rear of my hou'; Then my
neighbors made life miserable for me and
humiliated me in every was possibie.
Maybe a good~ black family wilt mak.
them suffer as I did."
N0 JOY-EIDES IN BERLIN.
Berlin, Oct. 29- -Another radical "hange
in Berlin life, the prohibition of all tart
joa'rlding. takes place November 1 as the
result of an order promnulgated by the
Berlin poUce preeident forbidding ridina
in taxicabs to and from the races. the
aters, concerts, moving picture shows.
and other performsancee. Both chauffear
and pasenger are liable to a $11 flne or
imnprisonment when the rule is violated.
'"mE0DORE,"~ GIFT OF 00D.
New York. Oct. 9-Prof. Uhaw. who
occupiea the chair of philosophy to New
Yor'k U~niversity, is head of the Dai
wersity Wilson Club. A strong adner et
President Wilsen, he dislikes Ccl. Reese
et. To hi. class In tihniosophy Freday.
Prot. Shaw put this qusestion
"Dese anyone know the msmane et the
n ame -rheodore.' Col. Roseelt's giveu
"It means 'gift of God.' a student re
Pled.
"Ccrrect.' said the professor. "Perseni
ally I do not wonder that Ged gae.
am.
