NIGHT
EXTRA
J.
tOL, IU.-2TO. 40
ituenfng
VJSTRAy
M
.
- Jtoa n.
ilefrijer
NIG
EXTRA.
Z.
PIIUjADELPIIIA, MONDAY, OCTOBER 00, 1018
Cerutanr. 11. I -as rcmo Lmn CcariM
PJRI01B CMOS CENT
IRMANS WIN
IE ON SOMNE
INFIERCEDASH
tdenburgers Retake Po
rtions From La Maison
nette r arm to jDiacata
BATTLES IN EAST
lions Announce Victory Near
ftd Tower Pass Lose at
Szurduk
din and Brandenburg troops,
for their flghtinsr power at Ver-
taunched one of the most violent
liter-attacks of tho whole Somme
? against tho French lines south
t fl Somme lastnight.
Vt French War Ofllco admitted this
noon that the Germans penetrated
l Mslsonnctto Farm, west of Pcronne,
, claimed mo rcpuiso 01 oiner neuvy
ks.
Th..German War Office reported the
lire of La Maisonnette and all the
positions extending from the
Vto Blachcs, together with 412
ners. British gains in the fighting
of tho river were admitted at
flim
Ait along Ihe Transylvanian frontier
, Austro-Germans and Rumanians
engaged in a scries of battles. Tho
sin War Ofllco announced the enp-
of several heights southeast of
famous Bed Tower pa3s, but con-
I a Rumanian victory southwest of
nuk Pass. Unofficial reports from
rad declared that Falkenhayn'g
had been pushed back three
s by tne Rumanians norm oi
npolung.
Jn Dohrudja a fresh battle is believed
alnent The Berlin official state-
ntTepprtcd that Mockensen's pursu-
; detachments are now in touch with
retreating Rus30-Rumanian in-
ntry and cavalry.
UTONS ANNOUNCE (JAINS
0N SOMME, BUT ADMIT LOSS
ALONG THE MOItVAL LINE
i
.-
BCIlLtN, Oct 30.
Ustire' tfy the Germans of La'Mal-
rtte Farnv south of the Somme, to-
with the French positions extending
t'ths farm to. the village- of Blaches,
lta announced by tho War Omco this after-
All of these positions, the statement
a, were taken by storm "In a brisk nt-
1 by Berlin and Brandenburg troops.
Jfcr hundred and twelvo prisoners were
a, -Including fifteen officers.
itmt War Offlco admftted the loss of an
enced trench east of Boeufs.
"Artillery duels continue on the Verdun
st," the statement said.
The text of the statement follows:
Many places on tho front north of
the Somme were under hostile Are, to
which we strongly responded.
The enemy during an attack from the
Lw Boeufs-Mortal line succeeded In en
larging his place of entry Into our most
advanced trench east of Les Boeufs and
southward for a small extension.
At all points where the enemy was
able to advance through our curtain of
re he was sanguinarily repulsed.
On the southern hank nf tha Snmm
y.ft. the Maisonnette Farm and the
tench positions extendlmr from there
r.e"the village of Blachea were stormed
; p a brisk attack by Infantry lteglment
r 'o. 359, composed of Berlin and Bran-
, waburg troops.
The attack WAR jtrnMnntlv nturMl
ihr artillery and splendidly assisted by
bSMmatlon flyers.
B Kour hundred and twelve prisoners,
r '" wiMHH wero micen oincers, were
-might In. ,
C'onllnpKl en re Tonr. Column Two
THE WEATHER
' WEATHER FORECASTS
on nrw diwwtrv olor iiiil tu
U h, MOOKK ad W. r. OAROTUEKM
Iforeeaat far PuuvimhI.i
L. "' November 8, to Wednesday, No
saber --There will be ahowera the open-
"" or yi wee, with moderately cool
jratures, clearing briefly to Saturday,
"JUST A LITTLE MORE PEP, BOYS"
Coach "Bob" Folwell was the
chief speaker at a mass-mceting
held in the chapel of the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania today. Its
purpose was to show the team that
the student body was by no means
cast down by tho Pitt defeat.
agr"11 again Wednesday and Thursday.
i'mMtwu'M storage movement will
rPasf'tlM Wuthir VrUiu . I.-.J"
! tMIMratuiML '"' M" ""
P snrl Wathw movements :
tell IV. 7 Mr" "ffW l
wiu t mcMUrnte to average move-
hl of th Unld mu- and Mnfluc
" AMI IS in 1st atA.va.A. AU.. XlT
notber rnavameat ta due Nevmr 11.
mJt '.S. ftvwW movement, pfeoedid
Wl-4tetriUa wreaMtatton. ZuZli
.ru,w." Wrs in the Central
J? "' brngW aeWer weather.
f" from sero (n northweat UulUd
in 4ta in Hm Bo(h.
GOVBBNMMNT FOJUCQAT
mtmastpHto Met vMttUyCUM
I" tomight mtdTtmtp, WW, I
"w naHt rmm:
Uurti; f0Uit
(at
MCNOTN or WAV '
ARK KIVKS Tim CHAMUk
CHMPtNLT stiusbt !
S45.ni Hlek ur 4.14 m
VWirCRATl BiiC AT U UOCB
i ;n '
ei,
wr
11
UK
i lJJ L asssL, "l
W i S? t 5 I 7i1lBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVliV W
9P JflasssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssHissssssssssR nrflisssissssssssssssslissssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssi "
fnP" "VbbbIbbbbbbbbbbbbIbsIbbbbbbbbbbHPPSbILbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV '
50 AMERICANS
UPON HORSESHIP
- SUNKBYU-BOAT
Many Lives Lost on Marina,
Torpedoed Without
Warning CONSUL CONFIRMS ATTACK
Boat Was Upon Return Voyage,
Probably Without
Cargo
JESSIE ASHLEY FINED
FOR PREACHING THEORY
OF CONTOL OF BIRTHS
Dean of New York University
Law School Will Fight
Case to Highest
Court
MRS. SANGER
2.
COURT
NEW VOUK. Oct 30. New Tork'a law
against the preachment of birth control wilt
be fought to tho United States Supremo
Court, If necessary. It was announced this
afternoon following conviction of Miss Jes
sie Ashley, head of tho women's law de
partment, New York University, on a charge
of distributing birth-control pamphlets.
A divided court -sentenced her to a ISO'I
.ST- - 4 W . '
fine or ten days In City prison. Sho pad the
fine under protest and1 entered an appeal.
Dissenting from tho opinion of his col
leagues. Judge Mclncrney In Special Ses
sions, advocated 'a straight-out thirty-day
sentence and attacked'the woman for violat
ing the law In order .that she might test
Its constitutionality.
This dofendant knew the law and delib
erately violated it." ho said, "so I think sho
should bo punished. These people knew
that this court has repeatedly passed on this
law and If they want to cnange it why don't
they go chango It? 1 don't see why clem
ency should bo given."
Miss Ashley, a thin, gray-haired woman
of fighting Massachusetts abolitionist stock,
sat calmly during proceedings, listening
through an ear trumpet to the court's ar
raignment of her acts.
In two cases of young men, found guilty
of selling birth control pamphlets, and like
wise In tho Ashley case, Judge Freschl laid
down the principle that preachment of birth
control as a propaganda constitutes a worse
offense than the mere selling of such In
formation as a solely moneys-making propo
sition. The defense admitted the distribution.
It had been Intended as a test, and, backed
by wealthy Itose Pastor Stokes, the fight
will go to the highest court In the land, if
necessary.
MAYOR MAKES PLEA
FOR DIGGER AN DBETTER
CITY OF PHILADELPHIA'
Praises Chamber of Commerce
and Urges Gospel of "Good
Will and Get Some
thing' Done"
NOTHING TO SAY ON TAXES
i
Mayor Smith today, addressing some five
hundred members of the Philadelphia Cham
ber of Commerce and their friends at a
luncheon given to him and the members
of his Cabinet at the Uellevue-Stratford.
made a plea for concerted action for a "big
ger and better Philadelphia."
The Mayor had been expected -to deo'are
himself on tho taxation question, but hts
remarks gave no Intimation of his vlewa,oh
.tftat.sifljicct. ..If said; . v. 4 t
"The welfare of Philadelphia, present
nnd future, depends upon the ability of the
municipal administration to have and to
hold the confidence of the people. For wel
fare means prosperity and, happiness, and
certainly there can be no prosperity where
there is no progress, and a noted authority
has stated that peace and progress are. jn
Irreconcilable conflict
"your chief executive is pot averse to.a
little conflict when he believes that It is
necessary to, the preservation of the city's
welfare. However, he is essentially a man
of peace (notwithstanding lie does ot sub
scribe to that "hq kept me out of war" stuff
ad onsense).
WOnKS FOR CITT'S INTERESTS
"The present administration, not yet one
year old, has worked earnestly, honestly and
indefatlgably for the welfare of Philadel
phia. At no time has there ever been a
single thought entertained of doing any
thing else than what was for the best In
terests of Philadelphia. We have niade
progress and we have been In conflict and
we gelieve we have the confidence of the
people and are not called upon td apologize
for our official conduct.
"Wo propone, by maintaining our official
rectitude and by progressing us rapidly on
our work of improvements and plans for
Continued on rie Two, Column Keren
NEWPORT NEWS. Va Oct. 30.
There were fifty American horse tend
ers upon the British freighter Marina
when she left here for Glasgow, accord
ing to agents of her owners. It is un
derstood here, however, that the 'ship
was upon her return voyage when she
was sunk by a German submarine.
LONDON, Oct J.
The Donaldson liner Marina, flying the
British flag, and numbering several Ameri
can citizens among the crew, was sunk oft
the Irish coast by a submarine Saturday
afternoon, with a possible heavy less of life.
The first adlces received here said that
seventy of her crew were missing, only
thirty-four having been landed. Later a
Lloyd's dispatch from Rockhaven asserted
that a patrol boat had rescued the crew,
making It uncertain whether there were
any casualties.
Sun-Ivors declared that the ship waa not
warned. The spot where the' Marina was
torpedoed Is not far from the scene of the
attack upon the liner Lusltanla.
Tho steamship was sent to the bottom by
shell Are. Dispatches from Queenstown
quoted American Consul Frost as report
ing that the ship was torpedoed.
Frost later reported to the American em
bassy here that the Marina was sunk with
out warning. He did not give the source
of his Information.
Another Queenstown dispatch declared
that the American Consul had learned when
the big steamsblb Ttowanmore was sunk
last Thursday (he submarine shelled the
ssel while the crew was still aboard and
later shelled the boats.
Tho Rowanmore, according to Frost's
report tried tor fifty minutes to escape
from the derrrjan ubmatln,e. Her steering
gear was shot away and the master brought
the vessel to & stop, signaling he was
abandoning her. The submarine continued
shelling and sHellerl the IJfebpft.tll after they'
hid cleared. There were 'no casualties.
however, MU9lOittMubmk'fI&:'tO!-
peaoea ino fiowanmprcy uvb oro hu hui
sink until !:ip p: m-, The crew were
landed at Sanrre.
The two Americans on-board were George
Murphy 70 VeffersbK ftY.c.nue, Brooklyn
and Albert Sessler, 4S Sharon strett, Bos
ton. Frost will get affidavits from the
two Americans.
WASHINGTON, Oct SO, A hew sub
marine Issue with qermany may have been
raised, orflclals here agreed today, by the
sinking of the Glasgow horse ship Marina
by. shellflre from a. German submarine Sat
urday, Accordlpg to a cablegram from
Consul Frost at Queenstown, the sinking
was without warning. Frost satd the crew
was reported to Include Americans.
The Marina was sunk about 3 p. m. Sat
urday, 100 miles west of Cape Clear, Frost
said. Thirty-four of the crew of lOl have
been landed, at Crook Haven, he said, but
tllfeboats Nos. 1 and 3 were missing.
In fixing thK biame for the destruction
of the vessel, it -will be necessary to de
termimvthe character of its charter. Some
of. the horse ships which have been plying
between the United States and England
have been under direct or Indirect charter
by the British and French Governments.
In such cases they assume the character
for the, time being of Admiralty vessels
and are subject to attack without warning.
BRECKENRIDGE CALLS
LODGE CHARGE FALSE
Says Informant on Alleged Lusi
tania Postscript Gave Sen
ator Jumble of Lies
ASBURV PARK. N. X, Oct 30. Pr.
Charles H Bailey's letter charging Henry
Breckjnrldge. former Assistant Secretary ot
War. had toid the writer that President
dny. Navember 8 It wllf become'' Wilson attempted to modify his Lusltanla
note to Germany, was today branded as a
"jumble of false statements" by Brecken-
rde. His alleged staiemepi w nuuitu
b Senatpr Lodge In a speech.
The former Assistant Secretary sent Jo
seph F Tumulty, secretary to the President,
the Uowhw telegram I
I have lust sent fetlowiwr telegram to
Dr. Ctri H. BaHeyj 'Veur WW to
Orafwn CvMfK . JbW of '
mtnte and you are an unNelebl
ywe tot )& U.-
Ucrtry Tuwultr had prtea lor !sw
yok atpHly befew tk tsUgrara arrived.
It ww) forwarded w htm,'
r0UIK I WAgmWGTOWg P1W
JJorTlVsMsti' fWHlla
pWioWaJ iW'sassitatW
'j.1 14 M
ot riwMsst WUt
m.v,, Lortltert Hi
nr utwi pt Ooxeraor Whitest' staff Juw
w'ATrJswit MsVor Mttahel, Major Uo
,rl Uonard Wod anu Admiral WatfcMM
,!, i re amvng th pUt
COAL DALK CHIEF OF POLICE
DEAD; HUKDEIt SUSPECTED
Dies in Hospital After Being Found
"Unconscious in Alley
rOTTSVJLLE. Pa., Oct. 3d. John Wil
ling, 33' years old chief Of police of Coal
date, died In the Coaldale Hospital three
hours after hes bad been admitted, and the
cause of hts death Is being Investigated,
I'a was found unconscious in an alley of
the town,
It s suspected that ho waa murdered.
He had been active- In suppressing Sunday
selling of liquor and had Incurred, the em
nityot'tnany lawbreakers.
- -p- .
AUTO DASHES INTO OFFICE
... i i i ' ... J
LeyM ,8tret and Tsara Dawn Tart
&t Realty Man's Wall at Eleventh
f and Ellsyorth s
An autH)le ran wlW.tcxUy a. KMyeth
and Ellswoftti streets a struck tKe real
ftate mse of YyiJUam A,44ef at the sth.
west srwr JJMr dewn V teet of 'n
briok wM a4 ft (Uocs.
The owner aftf Attvsr, ManHiel Kayfix
vjteh. of ItU pMfji tfn-Jttms4,frefn his
aat'wfetM tM ar-tstt' li . fw'the
t AdUr wa Jn omilersono wHT' two men
jwbMi the automehtle we, huHH; In, but
tkr Junmt t aMy.
DttHasman MtttWjM, U tbe FKtathaa4
but of the Aorvtoy' ia tins ta aa kv,
Havlnovlcfc was tumln Into EUWwtk
trvo KUvanih atrMt, a MnM U
aST-ialn bow M tm MMM r ilM
THIEF OUT ON PAROLE
ACCUSED OF ROBBERY
Caught With Stolen Suits 'Few
Hours After Release From
. Eastern Penitentiary
A few hours after he had been released
from the Kasfern Penitentiary on parole,
Thomas Houn was arrested and accused of
robbing the store ot the Ideal Cloak, and
Suit Company, 8?t Arch street, He was
held without bail today by Magistrate
Tracy In the" Eleventh and Winter streets
station,
Raun was seen leaving the store yester
day afternoon with three suits, under his
arm, Policeman Doyle caught htm after a
chase of two blocks
Raun was released from the penitentiary
yesterday morning at I p'clock. He was
sent there in Msrch, 1915, to serve an In
determinate sentenco of from eighteen
months to two years for robbing a store-at
IIS Arch street. This placa Is Juet a few
ditont from the plaee he is aeeuned of rob
bng ) ay,
fMwfUy ' icr being piaeed In a aeU .Raun
waa fui be Buffering frsm the use at
Oof, the ii ce say, A wthw smv him
Tftiif. WbH3.be was betwr tfoat4, Raun.
ardin to the ptyM,Fal4 Im estrid get this
tiny at the " fc rf ( '
"It fnust be a'BoJall.'MM Magistrate
Xry en hrtu the prtMBirs remark.
, Warden MeKeoty said Raun's artk4,
was rMtulua.
"He utayed dn the baseball team in the
inotttwtion all summer,'1 said McKeMty, "and
worfc4 fn -the printing shop dlrsotly under
the supervision of lb ebatrial, it wowtd
have bi hmaosaittte gt ay Veee hre,
aUo atMOttttaly lrolKMbU tor XtmlM to
us ar la the prtsoiirs. SMMlMt bare
l MMtf Maftltiaa art bad '? to
a ( ftmim wrti I OatiN WtmV
QUICK NEWS
;
SEVERAL KILLED WjIEN HOSPITAL SHIP HITS MINE
TAlttS, Oct. 00. ho' British liospltal shit Onlekft,, of -1300
tons, lilt a mine off Uavro on Sunday mornlnjr, it waa announced ,to
day. Tho crew and tho staff of doctors nnd nurses were picked
vp, but several were killed or wounded uy the explosion. The vessel
was grounded.-- i , . ,
NEW JAPANESE ENVOY PRESENTS CREDENTIALS TO WILSON
ASBUttY TARX, K. J., Oct. 30. Accompanied by his full staff
In brilliant orlentnlu nlform, Viscount Sato, the new Japanese Am
bassador to the United States, today presented Wp credcntjnls to Presi
dent Wilson with formal greetings "Yuid expression ot hopofor a co
1I....J...K n 4t.n M(A.,,lt.. ..I.Uai,. tv!atlltn l.MfiAnii tlik. turn fltr
WHUUIIV.O Vk iiiu iiicuuijr tunttutta vmiuu5 wvhnwv. v.w-vnv mm,-
crniucuts,
..
. TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Laurel race, maiden 2-year-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs Polly J.,
100, Burltngame, $30.70, 918.80, ?0.40, won; Mae Murray, 100,
Klccger, $5.00, 3.80, second; Swoon, 112, Butwell, ?3.00, third.
Time, 1.08.
Second vLaurel race, steeplechase, 3-ycar-olds and up, selling,
about 2 miles Otto Ploto, 138, Crawfoid, $45.00, $13.00, $10.70,
won; Dixon Park, 15,4, H. Williams, $4.30, $3.40, Becond; J. It
Johnson, 142, Clark, $7.70,thlrd. Time, 3.40.
first Windsor race, purso $000, all ages, foaled In Canada, 5 1-2
furlongs, selling Dorothy Catlln, 108, HcEwan, $32.10, $10,80,
$5.00, won; WUhaway, 07, Kopplcman, $4.00, $3.30, second; Sir
Arthur, 117, Molcsworth, $5.10, third. Time, 1.03 4-5.
Second Windsor, race, purse $000, 2-yeav-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs
Ci'cpusclc, 105, Clavdr, $4.40, $3.70, $3.20, won; Sleppy Sam, 198,
WilliaiUH, $10.40, $5.80n tccoud; Starter, 111, Peak, $.4.00, third.
Time, 1.08 1-5. ' - it
AUSTRALIAN WOMEN DEFEAT CONSCRIPTION BY 89,000'
SYDNEY, N. 8., Oct. 30.-f-The defeat of conscription In the referendum election
In Australia was today attributed to the women's vote: Their vote waa strongly
against compulsory military service, despite the appeal Issued to them by the
Premier on the ave of tho election. With many districts to bo heard from, the
majority against conscription, was 89,000.
COMMUTATOR
CUTS OFFERED
BY RAILROADS
Family Ticket, How
ever, Refused ih
Counter. Plan '
P. R R. AND READING
... FiX DIFFERENT RATB
,
Fifty-Trip SaU; Sugg aettd
in Compromise on '
Patrons' Plife'sT '
'-
TWO-YEAR CONTROVERSY
VILSOj5 WAGER MADE AT ODDS QF 10- TO 6
NKV YOrAJC, Cjct. 30. X (lobd otbetUng1 money was offered; to co'mmlssioners
today, while nn uptown hotel reported that one, wager pf 10W" t(j" ,ft00 on Wilson
hod been mado there the first time tha,t'bdds have been irivaft anth.Prel(Jent.
The commissioners thought that the flrst betting this week, however, would be at
i 'ijt (
TWO DIE PF INFANTILE PARACYSlSj TOTAt 280;
Two,(leaOs,fromilnfahtJle,pa'rijIysls wee reported todayhjjncreasln8"the.hum
ber' of, deaths since the disease,' became p'rev'alfnt to iS9. ' Today's' viqtlms were
Isador J'latoiky, six months old," S08 1eds' Btreet, kitd.' Qraee- Chriattnse'n, fifteen
months old, ,3240 GoCKlman street .
Railroads' Comprembe "
in CemmKtatien Dispute
RAILROADS basis of. ettleimitt
for commutation rate contro
versy: Restoration of family ticket re
j fused.
New fifty-trip ticket at reduced
rates, Rood for six months as substi
tute for present ,100-trip yearly
ticket, which they plan to 'aboil.
Fare to several important stations
as asked by commuters and. as of
fertd by railroads compared:
READING
rr trip rate
offtrea hy
railroad
Fr trip rate
ikH by
commuters
l K..I. .f MH k.al. H
100-trtp ticket. BO-trip ticket
Station.
Germantown ... 0.85 10.4
Frankford 13.4 14.6
Jcnkintown .... 13.4 14.5
Bustleton 37.2 16.
Norrlstown .... 19.2 - 19.
Doylestown .... 34.8 37.9
PENNSYLVANIA
Bryn Mawr ... 12.75 13.9
Paoll 2i:6 u 22.
West Chester. . . 30. ' ,30
Chelten Avenue. 10.5 10,4
Urlstol -24fl5 25.9
Eddystone- ...n 14.75' "14.6
Chester 15.7 16.
Swarthmore .,. 13.85 , 145
Norrlstown ..,.,19.2 ' 19.
a cj
I
BANK OF FRANCE RECEIVED $370,000,000 IN GOLD '
PARIS, Oct. 30. The Bank of France has received $370,000,000 jro'd since the
outbreak of the war, It was announced today. General satisfaction la expressed
over the success of the second French war loan. So threat was ,the rush of final
subscriptions that it will be several days before all are assorted.
BABE MAY DIE OF FALL INTO TUB OF SCALDING WTER
Suffering from Injuries caused by falling Into a tub ot scalding water, Michael
Tukas, three years old, of 1103 Galloway street. Is in a seriousi condition ln the
Children's Ilomepathlc Hospital. The baby ran backward into the tub, which Was
on' the floor, -while playing wth his fourteen-year-old sister.
BRITISH SHIP ON FIRE; NO HELP NEEDED, SAYS WIRELESS
HALIFAX, Oct. 30. The Canadian Marine Department has received a radio
message from the Drltish steamship Kast Point that she was on fire, but that the
flames were under control and no help was needed.
AMERICANS TAKE NICARAGUAN REVENUES FOR DEBTS
MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 30, Americans are taking over the management
of all the Internal revenues of Nicaragua, A dispatch from Managua October 1
said It was reported American bankers, to whom Nicaragua was Indebted, had
notified Nicaragua that It must pay the debt by October 15 or they would take over
sufficient revenue to 'reimburse them.
FELIX DIAZ REPORTED WOUNDED IN BATTLE
m'kJvICO CITY, Oct. 30, It Is authoritatively learned Felix Diaz was seriously
wounded In an engagement with Constitutional troops near Etla Oaxaca. Several
boxes containing Diaz archives were captured by the Constitutionalists in this battle.
The archives 'arrived at Mexico City this morning.
INVENTS BULLET THAT WILL PENETRATE "TANKS"
Captain Wallace I Clay, stationed at tie Frankford Arsenal, has Invented a
bullet that will penetrate the "tanks'' which have been praised by Drltish generals.
The bullet was tried out recently at Sandy Hook and the test was successful. It Is
only a thlrO'-callber make, and can be fired from a machine gun or regular army
rifle. It is described as "an Infinitesimal armor-piercing projectile."
U-UOAT SUNK BY WRECK OF ITALIAN DESTROYER
LONDON, Oct, 30. A dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph from Athens says;
"The Kmbros' Corfu corresxindenl reports that the wreckage of an Italian torpedo
boat destroyer, blown up by a mine laid by an Austrian submarine off the Kpirus
coast, fell upon the submarine and completely destrojed it."
MRS, FELS TO SPEAK IN BOSTON
BOSTON, Mass., Oct. 30. Mrs. Mary Kels, of Philadelphia, widow of Jeseffe
Fels, will address the Ilgplon gnaplfr" ot Hndda-ah Jhls afternoon on th "Wngle
Tax." and its proposed application to the rjetv colony she Is plannlngte flnne m
1'aleetlne. .Yesterday in jPortlund, Me., while speaking on single tax, Mrs. Keif
Indorsed .President- Wilson. ,.
STEEL CAR PLANT WRECKED BY FIRE; 3 IDLJB'
DUTLKR, Pa.; Oct; SO, The power and electrical building of the 8ankHl stye4
Car Company has been wrecked by Are with a Wse t (i,44 and 6 rmm are ,
The entire plant will be rippled Indefinitely, ataWng ,fwrthr tea at . s
wage and eontraoU. ,
NEW AUSTRIAN PREMIER SUBMITS -LIST OF 'Mltmuoi'
VI1CNNA, Qet. . Austria's new' Premr. f Ooaiw Hi"iCofJuf, hs'uWt4
to Kmpww Francis Jri a Wet of the nw CaWrwt.'the memUfrs o Um s)lurgkh
CaUnat haviag in I)h eeir of the day .subwHUd thr reslgnaUsas. M, Utt
membsrs of ibs ew CaWrrH will U ta sMli unknown. ' ,
STEisMiHJP CAWTYING GltJUtk VQU?i7lBg TWVSDOW
VUttVH OeL ItWrtw staMaaU AapsMIc, oirwas wiiilisw W
ten tft)aiia at Xhrrs, m)m a IWutsr ! ftwa Atisss. Mo
C UaH MUM W IMtM W SVSMHtS SIHmW
Attorneys .for the Pennsylvania, Itjllro
and' the, Philadelphia and 8ea4tng hallway
today filed wltn the Tublla ServreeJ 'com
mission at Hsrrlsbiirr their rp to ta
BTODosala rrjsdel by the .oommuters last
week as a basis fir seUtlng the two-year
CMtrovera?.er?T)4-.l)teaMlta teet-oo-a as?.''
mutation rates vrfateti beeame'eeetlire De-1
camber, 191B. . ' ' . 'tf
The rallrdads Mrr their 'reW.Anfrlr'ra-. ;
'fused 'to'-establish any formof fimlly
mads i by the commuters. ' ,
'Thiy,alao declined .to 'ac'cJe.Dt the proposal "
of the commuters that the Ie prise ot tha
lOO-(rlp yearly commutation tickets be de-
creased to the price effective prior to De- .
cember IS, 1914. plus one-'th'lrd of the la
creasS allowed by) the Service, ard. '
As 'a counter-proposal to the two requests
rnade, by the commuters;, the railroads offer ,
to establish an entirely -new -form of ticket
on condition' they .'are- permitted to tlefltk '
the lQO-trlp yearly ticket (
Th- substitute ticket offered by the tw
companies alike, buon a.dUferent fare baste. '
is a Afty-trlp ladlvldua.t, tlek-t. good tor
six months and with a sens rata charge, j
The per ride charge on thaiprepesed ticket
Is substantially lqwer .In, newly all oases I
than the present per ride charge for ih i
100-trlp tlcketa In some Instances it ta
even lower than the perlrkaeharfe re
quested by the OTmmuteVuW'4he Iff f
trip ticket reduction, but .'in .a.tevf InsUaees)
it is higher than the present charge, t ' f ,;
RATBS DIFFBR ' , '
The Pennsylvania, and the, Reading agree
as to the form of picket ,.wWea "they wIM
establish In lieu of the two reeueets of ths '
commuters, but they differ as ta'the rates)
for this ticket, each railroad having pre
pared a complete tHJhedule far tWvartavs
stations. The Baltimore and Ohio, whtaai
was named aa one of the parties Ut the
case, iM as yet made no teply to the Are
'posals of the oernmutars. This ta the tat
time that the railroads did not file Mention '
proposals slrtee, the ease Jbaa beea
way,.
A conference ef the attorneys
Ing the various eemmutwe' and Wueineaw
associations, which have taken pari In IM
rate flcht, was oalMt 3'o'etaek this after
noM In the ofltae of IMwtit M, AtsWtt, but
no deeislen waa reaehed as to wststtwr or
not the propesltkm of Um raiWwuta would
bo aeasted- wlthuwC mMlftcaUoa.
'The VeduetteR in ,tkje eoi etaas ? ttak.
ets," said Mr, AkU4l, Via vry.s)btanttal.
being ia some eases sveo gfeatar.'thaa w
asked. But It Is .stilt MnoeeMsat whettMsr
r ns' we setawM Wr 'to'mMk um eaa
wMhH any fatally, UciM$ ajsf with a
mnkiwm rata basfa, MMk af'V osTered by
.-- 'Vrtaaavivasaa. J Ua slfea Wissks. iSM i
s w - -rw i
tkM Blttr to it y-nnaytmasa,"
AatWker ouuesrenee'uT fti ootirmuters' at-
MMB-wkH km sSSlUlllll
P -v si aaassspj S1 SJSBSfBVj bbbsssv tBBsgBjSSSW
'Isssssssy Bat rtassssssssMU
' &-
aiUtsa as Mssst lir tsss
tPFl
1'fl
SJBsJIss a
wmmim'-itmi
assssksVsasssssssf Bsssssttsst ssssssf ssMsst 1 IflsT SsstsAUssssssssV 1
SSSgJSBSJBSJBSJ sasssswW W' . Vf t'"""'!
iTfllp m Bl sasap1 sP 1ssJ1bsJsB j
Oat fare satastsY 4 tMfWiist dse af i
sssttr-tria aaonCMr JMH jpsiw , ass
auttaw kstwi HaHf f ataus a i
sr tkf
caasp WfcSfra
I 1
sspS we)flsl
m a
tt.
m ffjf.
A
- .aB fi -i
Ki
j.'ft0fAr
