THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow prob
ably fair, and somewhat cooler.
Highest temperature yesterday, j8; lowest, so.
Detailed weather, Mall mid murine reports on page U.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
5UVL
i
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 60.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1916. Cwff, ". V " Sun iTtntlnf and PuhUthing Atjoclatlon.
ONE CENT
In r.reater New Vnrk, i
.leoey "Mjr iin.l Newark, i
Klsewher
TWO CUNT.
NEW ATTACK ON
WILSON MADE BY
MEXICAN CHIEFS
Carranza and Three Highest
Aids Quoted as Blamin
Him for Revolt.
greek king yields RUMANIANS PURSUE j CAPTAIN BOELKE, GERMANY'S
AGAIN TO ENTENTE
Agree to Withdrawal
Troops From Thessnly
and the Epirus.
of
FLEEING INVADERS,
GREATEST AVIATOR, KILLED
Northern Army Routs Bavari
ans, Driving: Them Toward
Transylvania.
Collides With Another Aero
plane During Rattle in
Air, Is Report.
GEN. GONZALES TALKS
OF DOUBLE DEALING
Insists President Should
Declare War or Be a
Heal Friend.
CABRERA STATEMENT
IS DENIED IN PART
Athens, Oct. 19. The Greek Govern
ment made known officially to-day that
Following the recent series or visits by
the Kntente Ministers to the royal pal
e King Cnnstantlne has spontaneously
Undertaken further to dispel Entente
suspicions of his sincerity by ordering
what he had previously refused to grant
on the Insistence of the French Military
Attache, that Is, the transfer of the .
Third and Fourth army corps from '
Tliessaly and the Sixteenth Division )
from the Epirus to the Peloponnesus, the I ;
southern Oreek peninsula. In Thessaly 1
and the Hplrun only a force sufficient I , i I
to maintain order Is to .e kept. The IONtxN. Oct. :!.-Encouragtng re-1
transfer Is to begin on November 3. ports of Rumania's situation on all
Such an evidence of pond w'lll on the , rt.,Phi.
part of the sovereign Is taken In usually tT0M comt ,0-d: from both Buc"a
well Informed circles here to Indicate a rest and Petrograel. Practically no
not far distant agreement for the co- ndvancp , announced by the German
operation of Greece with the Entente .
Allies. 1 War Office.
The recent report that Trlnre George. I file. P.usso-Rumanlan flrmv In the of Amsterdam. A collision with another
King Constantlne's brother, was to re-! ' ,,,. ' aeroplane on Saturday during a hattle
turn to Athens from London, where he ! Doorudja has a pood chance to elude ,n fhc n,r nft thp MlJ, of a Vrfn!h .
KLTDIXO VOX MACKEXSEXjHE HAD SHOT DOWN
, i HIS H)TH ADVERSARY
Dohrndja Forces May Be Able)
to Cross Danube on Ton-
toon Bridpes. 0,U' T"e Wptw MrtU 1,1
! New York Hotel " on
Fame in War.
LODGE HAS PROOF OF
SECRET POSTSCRIPT
I-onpox, Oct. 29. Capt. 'Roclke. the
famous Herman aviator, lias tieen killed,
according to a Berlin despatch received
by lteuter's Telepram Company by way
wvw XTJ
mm' ma.
If Jmw
Wilson Nearly Forwarded
Soothing: Addendum to Sec
ond Lusitania Note.
STOPPED BY OABRISOX
Cabinet Protests Caused Wil
son to Rewrite Document
After Bryan Resigned.
"fS'SS'HOGHES WRITES
ur t rr nti nin ritivni
11W, KiirnOT K,lhta l II, J HA1 Hfcl LL "U
" :in presidency
Not for Publication. Says
Author Arredondo Denies
Insults to U. S.
has been for some time representing
the views of the Greek court. Is untrue.
Prince. Nicholas, military povernor of
the Interior xone. Is expected In Athens
within a few days.
REICHSTAG SESSION SIOBHT.
Von Mackor.sen's trap by crossing the ltrltlsh aviator, broight down his ma
Danube on bridge of Mats. The cmn ""run the German lines,
northern nrmy has beaten the nP hnt rtiinii 40 Aeroplanes,
Capt. Boelke.
Gov. Whitman greeted many well i
wishers yesterday In the St. Ileitis, but
few were as enthusiastic over his pros
pects as Thomas Ramsey, a wealthy
farmer of Indian Lake. N. T who
alo Is stopping at the ho. el.
"I know conditions In Hamilton and
Pulton counties." said namsey. "and you
will carry both."
"What makes you so confident?" the
! Governor Inquired.
n have a M f j-no on you to win
vv.. -,.. , t... c,... 1 there and I don't waste money."
AitiN0T0V. Oct. 29. Tnr Pis .. wlnft th(. ,aw t0 bet." ,ur-
learn positively that President Wilson' putted the Governor with a smile, "and
did put an addendum to the second I.ust- you must not tell me as an officer of
tanla note which amounted to assuring 'Vhct of I5nn to USA with Huphes as
Germany privately that the demands In the favorite also was posted In tho St
the note were not to be taken too serl- Itepls.
ously. Investigation shows that Senator .r.nh?" Sk.tE
tdce has proof of his charge that the llilv Col Jnhn T Ashley, treasurer of
addendum would have been sent had not the hotel, put away in the safe an even
i certain members of the Cabinet threat-! money bet of $3,000 on the result In
ened to resign unless It was eliminated. I that Stale.
. -Secretary nryan's resignation from
I the fablnet fnllnu ri th. rtlr-.t nf fiprn. 1
...... ... ... ...v i i TTTTTf tiT i rut cmnWT
AVill Be Adiuinistrativo
Heath Not Political Lead
er, as Wilson.
CABINET TO BE ABLEST
COUNTRY CAN SUPPLX
, , r ... i tary or war t.arrison ncunsi me secrei
Uavarlans decisively In the Jlu Valley Krll,.v c,pl. lMk ,not ,,. l"n".us. liV '''"iP1- 0nl- h' t!, th" !hr '.''f
and is pursuing them In the Transyl- l,. fortieth aeroplane. He was proba. , .iii.j KirHn.n Vine? 'ulcltl' chanced nis rninn ana in-1 jh,00(, t .s.lrr mn,i rlU to Kill
dtii;t'i UPP. lite .Misinuu .tilt-illl' ' un'.-. rnniui nMiiwi in tin, .11111.1 . .
I to seiiarjte the Russian nrmv from In the war. Certainly he s most sue- the Mglttning OI me war,
rreTen- ,h. tjiimanlnn In thn Carnnthlans has cessful In bringing donn hoMlle aero-
Washington, Oct. 19. Statements
ccredlted to Mexicans high In Car
ranxa's councils and specific denials of
these statements have followed each
other In bewildering succession In the
last twenty-four hours.
planes.
Government Heckled on
. t a a m . . . V . . 1 . ...-!.. 1. . . . V . .
RcnuN. via I5ndon. Oct. The , won by the Itumanlana and more ,nat Cap, ,oek, 1)ad Ufn rrVerely
Reichstag had Its stormiest meeting of positions, more guns, more prisoners wounded by a shell from a French anil
the present session Saturday when the ( taken. ' alr. raft gun. but on October 13 the Ger-
question of abrogating the system of ' man official statement said he had
nreentlve arrest on suspicion" came nnllil Danube Boat IlrlUe. brousht down hl thirty-seventh and
up for discussion. i , . ... I thirty-eighth aeroplanes. He was re-
Deputy Dittmann. Socialist, started the I Hrldgcs of pontoons have been built I ported n June to have been killed, be
trouble with a recital of hardships and across the IJnube. leading from the 'CTUfr German avlatcr wearing a yel-
luny ui wic inu unuunu riuentauy niame.1 .Mr nryan lor navingi
I Instigated the thought of the "private
anoenaum prevenien .Mr. uarnon irom
DAVISON FROM AIR
SEES SOME FIGHT s
Himself.
Mrs. rtosn Itovner. 13 years old. of
... . . will. C11i M'x lioti (ti fvn
by many of his friends to nave een ai . " .-.n. ..n.-.-, .... .w
least partlv responsible for hl subsc-, sister, under the viaduct at 107th street
quent resignation from the Cabinet. f an, j.ark aVenue when a man shot her
Neither President Wilson nor Secre-1 ., , ... . ,..... ..
nrv llrvan reparileit the addendum as
an unprecedented procedure until Mr. her sister.
Garrlon had emphaslied the fart thit Then he turned the weapon toward
It amounted virtually to betraying the i himself and shot twice. One bullet
Injustices and Deputy Haus of Alsace , northern DobnidJa Into northeastern low scarf and driving a yellow plinfl as KiliniK'iei' ill French Aei'O GoCS i confidence of the American people. went through the front of his hat. the
To Safeguard Capital and
Labor Interests by Pro
tective Tariff.
RIGHTS OF AMERICANS
WILL BE DEFENDED
Business to Be Expanded at
Home and Abroad on
Sound Lines.
and Deputy Seyda. a role. Added tuei i Hllraanl.i and llessarabla. bv which
to the name ny similar reciais. it. ,h iI,1....tii!m,nl!.n tm. -nn
fjpp from ion Slackensen. who is
Helfferlch. Secretary of the Interior, ex.
pressing regret than Injustices and evils
.boul.l hnt rreni Into the svstem. at. 'rjing to arive mem into Hie Lianuoe
Hut In the fog of doubt created by temnted to defend It as an absolute ' mirshes. .
these shifting assertions and contra- . necessity on the ground that the security The bridges are near Itralla
dictions the outlines of one large and f the State was Infinitely more Inipor- man. a prope
solid fact are rdaln enough. This tan- than that ot me inaiuaua
In It'j.
Hoelke did, had been brought down be
tween the lines near Verdun.
Corporal Victor Chapman, the first of
the American aviators with the Krench
nrmy to be killed, was killed by Cap:.
llolke. The German aviator once
worked as an elevator man In a big
Three Miles Behind German
Lilies at Comhles.
Isakcha (Isaccea) and t Kflh av,nu, not,i n .w York. That
To c:.mb Into a French armed aero- June. 1915
After the tlrt
friction between the Administration ,.i.m. rh.r.M ihi t the best could be . southern linh!
and the de facto Government of offset only after Investigation. ' A llulgarian statement of yesterday.
Mexico. The friction appears so great The bill providing for the abolition of Just received, reports that there was h
that the Wilson policy toward Mexico the preventive arrest system was re- bridge also at Hlrsava. only twenty-five
seems to be threatened with complete ferred to a commission of twenty-one i miles north of Cernavoda. but says It has
other through the brim at the side.
ronfldenttal Illstorr I Having failed twice In his attempt at
...j . j ,h. .. suicide, he walked away.
' which r omV ed the Pr;..Ment to add It I At Park avenue . near lOMh street Jo
t the note It i neeeary to divulge Ph ', a detective, arrested Hen
lme of ?he ccnndential diplomatic hls-'mln Hovner of SSS Seventh avenue.
.... r.t nwn.t meeMne eirlv In n" weapon, dui ne nan noies in
llor.y. .Lht Cablntt m" lnK e,rl m,hls hat and powder marks on his hand
A statement by Cnirfrs K. Huahrs tin
to the thirds for irhleh he ic(l .itanrf
ns Prulitenf o the fnitnl State teas
given out tart ntpht by the KeimbUean
Sattonal Committee. The ttatcment,
irhtch Mr. lluohr itneribes at ".Uy
Concrpfloit of the Prenirirncv.'' folloics:
r ciiAm.F.s kvans iu:r.iiF.i.
On tho eve of election day the)
American people nre entitled to a sum-
gibl realliv ! ih.t there 4. erlni. criticised Herr Dlllmann and his fellows , nrudja) bank of the Danube loop, where haJ forCed him to !eae the army and , ' ,. ' " " ' ' not- Oermanv retaliated by disputing "'.re. w-nen conrronicn wun ner M campaign as thev arc the thlncn
5i?if."aI..? 8 th"t.thfr.e.l!'. "" ?U" In the .lmniest manner for publlcly.lt separate, the northern Dobrudja from ' flIw , i,,eJ i i hit he show he was nn th' Pmme. then to course , ""mX,h ha, been gathered re- ldy he steadfastly denied the murder.11"' "mpaiRn, a" W) are the tlilngll
leisurely up and down and In wide clr-1 .pectlng the sinking of that vessel. This mrmi.iru huh u nuu "....m n.- i irannn
rollatue ml enntlnnnllnn .if tV.A n.n. I members.
tlatlons at Atlantic City Is likely to
become a farce and a travesty upon MYSTEEY IN EITVOYS' COMING.
diplomacy.
been ilestroye.1. It Is believed the bridge Hoelke last March cotnpllrmntlng
his family
willing to work.
cles over the battlefield for an hour, country
t tm iiimrniru wnl,e watching between
The Kaiser wrote a personal letter to lfalher the mighty drama directly belo
strong I.usitania ' 1,1 4iiinn-u ti.e n..,...,,, ..... ,1,..,., v,4 mV iaings i nnve sioon xor in
1 i .. .. kl.k .V. f!rm.in fiflV- I
one s snoe "" V'v" , '
.....t ih. m!n- wno Kuieo ner easier ar.u enui hi ner.
No man can tell In advance what
...... ..... .... . i , ii itnevneM e.l .l.m. . . , V. . - . m .
ernment Ignored the vital issue. , n'naa Z ' 1 r
In response to this public senumeni . . f"" prvsciii, inn ono wnoso
..u.nt wii.rtn tr-rrtte his llrsi ilrait or n, t.i.n.wi, . , . .
land finally to fly more than three miles President
was riestrnved nfler r.nrtlnn. nf the re. him Oil his Skill and S.1J ing inai as tapu ; .. .
treating army had crossed. .Hoelke had already received the Iron ' s.rn.gm oac er ,ne
The ltulrnrlnn. In n hnm hi. Keen en. L TOSS and me truer I'our le .nrriir nr . n uurniK llir uamr nnil Ret w,i. ,,. ,,!..
ti n,.ii,. .),. .,..,. i. e i.,... "r.innot let iias this moment without i
it ihut tvmiid Yt a rtvint tin trhirh . J. .(. iiAimmtnt nirf!nt n children And my Mstr. Notify my father
rr "''" asser.s rally that from Two Knropenn Minister In Meaioo ' ,nnf ar)(, nftJ r,ache.l As- expressing to you again my fullest at- nip Americans would want to talk recurrence of the Lusitania outrage, at once
' . : ii. ii." in.ti,ry iiuiiiur- w is Waihlutos, trovo. south of ltabadagh. on Thursday. ' Knowieugmeni m your innum -v....
Oermnns1 eoun-1 the second note demanding a disavowal rlc' 1 , 1 , . ,
Germans coun wie attack American lives or In bis pocket was found a note say-
1 get away with; vromil steps Ing "I leave all to my mother, my
-Two
I ltabadagh is fifty miles north of the Con- menl In aerial fighting.
stanta-Cernavoda line. The pursuers Capt. Hoelke's neaust rival in the Ger-j Hut not so Henry P. Davison of J. J.
.. . r..,.j piniiw-vrnnnuua tine. i nc imr?ucrs . --- - ,
Ul , rnf,Tl t h" n "ven guns, ammunition wag- man tlylnr corps was I.ieut. Max Immel- Mortan Co.,
? . n wninJ ' " nrt wagons and J00 moreprls- maim, who was : tiled also accidentally,
L..l,.H ,... "'" The German statement say. the1 by falling within his own lines last June.
t? J!n, ,r d.mr situation In the Dobrudja 1. unchanged, after bringing down fifteen allied planes, liner rhlladelp
They
said. howeer. that Capt. Hoelke would
accept a challenge dropped by an allied '
Carranra. the Flirt Chief: Candldo San Antonio. Tex.. Oct.
Agullar, hl Secretary of State; Gen. Kuropean Mlnlste;
laro Obregoii. Minister of War. and ' through Kan Anton
lien. Pablo Gontalc the four most i from Mexico city
powerful men In Mexico In which they I missions which they
u.uimy denounce the Administration s t In any way. They were not traeiiing. French and Hrltleh airmen often
.Mex. j n policy of -double dealing' and tonether. . Tlr Jin Threatened. mralsed Capt. Hoelke's bravery and ehlv
nete mat nicy would prefer opn ws- Count Kalman Knla volkanya. aus- i .... . , irv in notlfvlng the families of those
to "honeyed" words on the one hand and :ro.Hunrarlan Knvov. said his mission 'n he Jlu Valley the Rumanian vie ' ," "",; 'nt, 'am"'J :.'
Irt . ;v..i i..- I - --- -- - ,. ii lorr rami 1ul In time. The lUvarl.inx. ni" I"""""
i'i iiiiiii- un nir uiurr. i was a secret one, UUk Hlinru nidi ll .wuiu --- - - -
I Uk.j him to Washington, where his Gov-1 who advanced south through the valley
ft ... .a ai'in . . ... . t- a i f mm it Iran m In I n a TrarKWlvanta
" -ernment now n.s no .n,n.ur, am. ; -- - vlator to .It.gle -ombat and then apjn-ar I
fnoil learning of lh!s. Kllsen Arre.Uhlt he would 1 In this COUntiy about i lf,!. T.'.rK.U JIU, "" l.h .unnnr,. h!,l,!e., hlml rlouds. !
: . - .- , - . . , . . I. ....ii. : -nnounceo. iifku jiu is a consiueraoic - -
.T1 " m0'or. 1"P"r, " r r.' " K.ni- rll0w..1 here hv town, twenty miles Inside the Rumanian
Pir n: o-morrow "and w-m deny Soto .n vii.. Bulgarian Minister to , bord.r. at the beginning of ara.lrod DEAD AFTER
he authenticity of the ni'tfook'i allegeil
iiuotations. He has obtained authority
!nni Mexico city to repudiate these rup
I'jfed Interviews, be announced.
At thw same time he will repudiate
about when they got home.
conception of tho President's duty
rests upon fundamental principles can
r.e.crlbo with entire sincerity how tho
Another note which had , Problems cf administration would bo
approached and in what spirit they
would Isj solved.
A man charged with tho duty ot
reaching a desired goal knows that tho
road to It Is found in following tht
path whtch sound Judgment nnd clear
vision open up step by step. I caa
.snow tne mul I r.xpect to travel.
I I nr-mose llrst of nil tn riri.i
guage of the note and wanted It toned ...... ..... . , , . . J President Is primarily nn executive,
down, but he particularly desired that million Mte at Slldnlghl. , R Is his supreme duty to nttend to tho
Its ilesnateh to Herltn be delayed as long i RtctiMos-n. Vs.. Oct. "9. Vlrclnl.i will business of the nation, to safeguard Its
Down at the Gn Cove home early ' as possible because be s.il.t lie mil rea- rntcr the rank of prohibition Slates at ,cre',, 'o anticipate Its needs, to en
wuu m dnluhl Tlies.l.lv. 11 rr the liil tn I l s.
recurrence of the Lusitania outrage, .u once. aiwinrr noie wnico na.i
Mr Tumulty, the PresldenVs secretary, dropped to the rloor was signed "Rose'
told the newspaper men that the note -and read: "If you don't stop annoying
was "much stronger than tne nrsi. u " --;cj. i un i
was charactcriied as "a demand for a anything more to do with you." Mockey
direct expression from Germany that she J Is the name of a probation officer of
hMe h- the nrlnclnles ot iniernauon.il i "'c uvumm: j.riuuuua mmi.
pw and humanity In the conduct of her
ubmartne operations. urn- iu..i..v.
who arrived "home from
csterday on the American
delphla. accompanied by Mrs.
Davison and daughter Miss Alice. Mr.
Davison had done all those things In , terlxatlon Is understood to have come
1 ine i rifim-iiv.
Secretary RryJn objected to me lan
i .. .... . .w. . I , .
the air while In Frsnee hnt he dMn't 'OireCIiy iromj"' '
seem to think much of the experience.
Orer Field of Cnmbles.
VIRGINIA "DRY" TO-MORROW.
Old tlnmlnlnn Ilerontes tSh Pro-
Nobel on VICAga. Bulgarian Minister to , border, at the beginning of a railroad DEAD 1
Mexico. "I am going east to spend a , through the fe-tlle plain that would be
few weeks on official and private bust-, of Kreut value to on 1-alkenhayns ,
, i.x!X nipnt. w litre Ih Banner. Just back m pcime uvm vw..sx ...... mmniKni iiiofnay, wemr.K xno io:ai o'"": '
GUN ACCIDENT. ' from a late afternoon horseback, ride and aovet'o VeilWe VhT'sltuatron V'" 'hls view of hlsdut, 'to about
null wearlnc riJInn topjt, was button i ..jn a flay 0r two." PecroMry Oarrlnn. . morrow nIpht a? no liquor can bo VIm tte aIl f,t Cabinot thn country ran
nt llninnrt Cat tmta,! a ere, ;,, u., ... u ... . v. - i ... Cantarv tnnW tnir ' ui. ...I t. t.. 1 .. ....t i-.. i fUrnih. men Will) flt.ll Willi fllA trM.
Una n
ness.' he said. "Dut my mission is !"-"' . , ,Mm , ...... . , ,,, ,,.... ,-Iewer m fell at le.,., , m, hn. h.. ,i. with Mr. Hryan agalnt mcKlincatlon or fejved notice that none will be received rnai onai and domestlo
as a representative or carranza nor 'V"" """'""'-; "'"'"l" "'."'""::' ' ' . ' , .. ,h. anguage. . for .hlnment after to-morrow. i""'"' HI .confront us In tho
Carranza nor
of the Mexican Government. I may call
formally the statement Issued here over ' upon the Mexican and American com
the name of l.ulsi Cabrera, president of mlssloners and pay my respects, as I am
ine .Mexican delegates at the interna- acquainted witn tne .Mexican utiegaies.
t onal conference, which crltlcfaed the
.... , . . . . , rMiiruiim 'i . ............ , iur ru iiiiiii-u. tiin-r i.i-iii'i 1 1. .
Hatport. I.. I.. lct. ttiiuam t ..t .. ..nru,u-.in o.iiiicncm ami; Mr Hryan's prophecy that an Im- Although the law makes the poes-
tie.t four e.irs.
Adm'nlptratlon sharply for not enforcing
strictly the neutrality laws and for not
suppressing antl-Carranxa propagandists
on th lrder.
He will explain that the Cabrera state
ment was put out by an employee ,of
the Mexican News Hureau, the de facto
Government's semi-official publicity
agency, without the knowledge or con.
rent either of the agency or of Senor
Cabrera.
It u admitted that In conversation
with a representative of the bureau
Senor Cabrera said the United States
could aid the de facto Government by
expelling Its well known enemies from
the I'nlled States and by Increasing its j
Mgiiance against me sensing oi arms
oer the border. Hut he had no Idea he
.as to l quoted, and made no "unjileas
snt" references to the American Govern
ment I' Is regarded as significant that a
statement given out In the city of Mex
ico b Carrania on Saturday, slmul
ineouiily with the Issue of the Cabrera
fatement, should correspond In many
i!U,ls with that declaration, and the
BREAD STAFF OF LIFE NO MORE.
Food Value Milled Oat of Floor to
Make It White. V. 9. Told.
Chicago, Oct. I?. Complaints that the
public sacrifices nutriment In bread to
appearances and that Hour manufactur
ers mill the food value out of flour in
order to produce whiteness were for
warded to the Department of Agriculture
to-day by Miss Florence King, president
of the Woman's Association of Com
merce, who is seeking to have Hour In
cluded In the application of the new
grain Inspection act.
The charge was made by Director
Roloff of the United Charities here. lie
declared experiments had ehown that
pigeons, chickens, and white mice could
not live more than three weeks on the
high priced white flour that Is made Into
bread to-day.
MRS. BELMONT GIVES $25,000.
Other Women l.nme Contributors
to Anll-Wllson Fnnd
mi Willi I itihui vriiir-iiin lliir. nil-ill
.eneK iirmn in. imvanini. ll wmh an.
... -. - - sMnnnn. nerii .1 . . n nr.-iuiiv itainciui. n.-iric ni ine Herman line, in v-rern ..... ...'.l rnm fmm ineiier. .1... . ... .....i. ,....i,i.. ...1....
fZhiZtte Temon. Sn 450 7, ,? ?h A" ee.'io d JurlnB a " ! n Govement came true, but It was ?ac',V ,e"Vf Intc'nt to violate Vhe i '-""ceiMlon.
Mlsoner The number I doubled ac- ur,,' P'nnn ..lenMll ,t?f 1 "1 went up In nn aeroplane over there "ot communication directly bearing on Matu.. ,aw supplies are being laid In My concept on of the Presidency dlf.
eoroMne 10 .he Russian stateme t of to- fTm, n, W01 w.numl ncd1 'T,,i," JZ fl , , nn "'"plane over th"e ,,uMMnn c3se. It was a note from by Individuals. This feature of the law. f. r absolutely frnin that nf Mr. Wilson,
dsv Tl e lIn the 1'""''"'-r' J rr ? J, hv near nJ 3m ',0W" JUSt M Am"ICa acknowledging In great detail Its ' expected, will meet with a test In , I look upon the President as the admlnl
HaVarUn. awthitSom. hU?1 r 5" 1 1,a'' PWlou-tr. like so many thousands blame for the torpedoing of the Amerl-' oourt. Str.me head of the Government. H
ai'?W5 Tlrg-S jTu. ?-Tn:. and Herbert I. U Funke of other Americans, gone up for an aero- , y-S 3" Nor.rot.K. Va OcTi -W. II Sute, ' Sk 0Sl&
n0i-,arhn7,2rl I 1 inch mountain of " nvcnur' Fluking, his plane ride. That's all there was to It." Xrmn aeroplane on the American, a local liquor dealer, -hot and killed . nation. lawmaker of th.
h IT , ? Jlr. ?L y??7Jlch w"k '.tl',,..KU"t;,,v"lt 0Ul0n.,,h!,baJ 'ut your ride." Mr. Davison was re ' "wn cushlng himself to-day at Ocean View. IV., 1 the two departments of Govern-
Orsova. on the Danube, at the Iron shannon's leg below the knee. The nccl-; machine. Didn't the Germans take a ' menf. which were now reenforced hv BAH I AMXJfcK&Ufl XAJxa nUJU,. tlo w. -'j.- rJUtPC .h
inference Is drawn that these statements
J retty accurately reflect the views of the ... , ... ....
-ie facto Government toward the United' v.""""- '"'h"" '..
la,e 1 campaign contributions to the .National
vv Oman s iarij, wnitn uj'iiufru iu
President Wilson, was made public at
the headquarters of the party here to
day. Among the contributors were: Mrs. O.
H. P. Belmont. New York, $25,000: Mrs.
Phojbe A. Hearst. 11.000; Mrs. William
Crocker, San Francisco, $1,000; John
Mllholland, father of Inez Mllholland
Bolssevaln. New York, $5,000,
The funds were spent chiefly for litera
ture and for campaign speakers, accord
ing to the statement.
A SeTere Arraignment.
The statements which the Outlook will
rubllsh in its forthcoming l"ue and
-hlch Senor Arredondo says he has tele
graphic authority to repudiate are the
severest arraignment of the Wilson poli
cies that has seen the light.
Carranza charges that President Wil
son has not kept faith with Mexico. He
drlares also that President Taft. Sec
retary Knox or Ambassador Henry I.ane
Wilson could have prevented the assas
sination of Madero. Of conditions ob
taining more recently the First Chief
'ays. according to the Outlook:
'Rut lately we have had to complain
'. very serious Interference In our af
'a' s by jour Governmnt. We consider
' ,e 'nvaslon of our country by the forces
' Gen. Pershing very wrong and very
urf,(ir We would not have complained
rruoh f the American army had made a
ijj k dash across the border and men
drawn. Hut maintaining the expe
rt ' in In Mexico, like a thorn In our tide,
l very unjust and lias hurt our Govem
mr.t. 'We cannot make such arts of your
President accord with his words of sym-
I'- 'hy for us. It Is this Inconsistent pol
lrv from your Government which Is re
tfomible for the disfavor In which
Arr.eri ans find themselves held In Mex
I J to-day. It seems to us that your
President has not kept faith with Mexico.
Wants Consistent Poller.
"We would prefer a firm, frank, con
fllent pulley from the United States to
sup h a policy as Wilson's. Hut, as I said
l.f r- we are grateful to Wilson for
Wnlcmiinillng that this Is a social
r vim ion and for the sympathy which
l,f xpressed In Ills stand against
Hum And we believe that your R
pub, in Presidents are kometlmes In
tllr.ej to be too overbearing toward
weaxr nations. On the other hand thels
foreign policies usually have the virtue
if rnr,siteiicy. What we would like
from ih next American President,
shjUMi his name may be. Is a Mvxlcar,
Gen. Cvanda's Rumanian nrmy. accord- j Mo the wounded man ar-, "If they did." laughed Mr. Davison. I wanted the note substantially chinced Jamaica Child Sriied In lis 1.1 ;'';,
ing to an Austrian uiucioi iii-,rm rle,l at ID uncle's home. m-m,.-r i.ic . i.ium.uuiani oi in ncn . ami emeu me i rt-iu.-nv r ..... .. l lftj-rlght n In llo.pllni. ' ground vvlth the ablest Cildnet th. Wn. ri
received here 'to-night. The hehu ' AUhough a tourniquet was applied to i'l'ylnKnorlt fac, that Germ..nv Indorsed ha ,,,. mpnth. ,,,. , try m!i X aW- '' the coun.
have been cantureU by a sururl at- .hr.t mile In tho air above the battleneld" , t-Mf!. .-.n.l w.m wlltlnc now to clve tack acain at the home of hi parenM,
. . . . aiirilUt-U HUH HV r ihmv. wiwu , - - . -
nxie ihn irirotnAnT ozn-ai ins nn. i .
Continued o Fourth Pag.
TO PRINT PAPER ON A SHINGLE.
Kdltor Dlseorera a Way tn Beat the
High Cost of "applies.
Wasiiinoto, Oct. 29. Representative
Albert Johnson, Republican of Wash
Ington State, has a constituent who has
solved the problem of the high cost of
print paper. This man pumisiies me
Castle Rock drornte nnd will print his
next iHfiue on a shingle.
The nub Isher discovered that tne
Underwood law, which put shingles on
the free list, so reduced the price by
permiltlng the Canadian shingles to
come In that Washington's chief Indus-
try has languished and shingles tytve not
kept pace with other American products
In enhanced prices.
The Canadian Invasion has brought
the price of shingles below that of news
print paper. The next Issue of the Ail-,-neatr
will tell all about It nnd give
an object lesson by appearing on tho
shingle, and Representative jonnson,
himself an editor, has agreed to edit the
unique publication.
ENGLISH INVASION POSSIBLE.
Field Marshal French Tells Volun
teers Attack Is Probable.
Lonpoh, Oct. ! 9, Field Marshal Vis
count French, commander In chief of the
armies In the United Kingdom, talked to
the vo unteers at Derby to-day,
He said an Invasion of the British
Isles was not a mere supposition, but a
possibility. This they must t prepared
to meet
tack, the statement says. The Ru
manlan statement says, however, that
an attack near Orsova was repulsed,
If Orsova Is recaptured Rumania's last
Transylvanlan conquest has been lost.
Gen. Cvanda's was the only Rumanian
army remaining on Austrian sou.
Raaslana Hepnlae Attack.
Russian artillery stopped the Austrian
drive In the Carpathians yesterday In 1
the region south of Dorna vvatra. At
Negri the Austrlans tried again to break
the connection of the Russian left In the
Carpathians and the Rumanian right.
The attack failed.
At the two Important points In the
Alpine passes south of Kronstadt. where
Von Falkenhayn most seriously threat
ens a drive on Bucharest, the Predeal
Pass and the Klmpolung region at the
Rumanian end of the Torzburg Pass, the
Teutons have received setbacks. In the
former region the Rumanians have
stopped nn nttack north of Azuga, and
occupied Mount Unghlamare. Near Klm
polung the Rumanians have made prog
ress on tneir leu. repui-niK mi
the centre nnd right. Petrograd says
the Rumanian success In this region
resulted In the capture of tho village of
Mvechl. . . .
The strong Rumanian attach being
made east of the Alt Valley, south of the
ned Tower Pass, is sun proceeuing. a
Russian statement says that In the Alt
Valley the Rumanians have advanced
mure'than six miles.
Petrograd announces aiso inai ine
Rumanian attack In the Huzeu valley
resulted In the rapture of Goluto-Oere-luj
Mountain. To day's Rumanian state
ment says ;
The Ilocharest Iteport.
Northern and northwestern fronts'
At Tulghes and Hlcaz there have been
artillery bombardments. In tho Trotus
volley, the Uznl valley nnd on thn
Vrancea frontier nothing new has de
veloped. In tho Huzeu valley bad
weather has prevented operations. At
Tahln Rulzl, Hrntnrea and Predelus
the situation Is unchanged.
In tho Prahova vnllcy wo arrested
by our curtain of fire an enemy at
tack which was advancing through
tho Clabuoetul nalulul, north of
Azuga. Wo have occupied Mount
Unghlamare.
In the region of Dragoslavle we re
pulsed attacks toward our centre and
toward our right wing. Wo have
made progress on our left wing.
Kast of the Alt valley the enemy
Is attacking with stronr forces. The
action Is proceeding.
In the Jlu valley our troops are
he didn't rally.
Mr. Shannon was retired. He spent
much of his time motoring nnd boating,
Sam Only French Airplanes.
them a practical test.
Across the road we are to travel ihl
Mr and Mrs. William Anderson. ISO "'" "ur years, even though we start
iht nnd move with prudence and cour
nuo. scrlou haanls aro thrown llko
reahx 111 a roadway made by H ton-en-
I Minister of Interior Seeks Sopply
I From Military Store.
PrTROORAP, Oct. I!. Minister of the
Interior Protopopoff has applied to the '
military authorities, according to tne
Kech, for permission to draw upon the
military stores for food supplies for the
people of Petrograd nnd Moscow,
M. Protopopoff has nsked that the
commlssarv Inform him what supplies
can be spared for the civilians. Roth
the Minister of Agriculture and the Mln
tster of the Interior declare the resources
of Russia are ample for the needs of the
army and the people.
U-BOAT MINE A BOOMERANG.
..i... ivn.n. iw..e with virl. New- York avenue. Jamaica.
, irn.cu, .. .. .. - . ,, ... w ,,!.., , the Olleen..
K'r':: ZeZSelzr k-a; 1,0-pu,,, .,.,0,,,
1 . i - n ... mi.nj ---- ..,.,.,1,1.- t eiiminiie the some time ago uv a party compoi-n m -i. i. nr.- .mi in i ne war
j-a croes-ooumry trip through Glen wanted to do so ;! jVaPh D-partmei,t ofilclals nnd poll-e- , toiront which I,,, overwhelmed Kurope.
Coye darkness would make any one per- dange of "''j'Vi". n"n In a so-called Mm by raid." Mrs. , Tin fitst has to .1.. with our foreign n-
slstent "didn't German aeroplanes try "Ms and appease his .er. .. or Mate ' ' .rJim,n lat.ons. It Is the P.ei,leni' ,i,.f.. ,
to w ng you?" at ' the same time. ,"'' V ,hr..e ..bvsl.-'.ans she had called, that ' safeguard the Inteiests of our own na.
n.ldendnm to which Senator Lodge
planes; at least we diiln't see any." The fcrs liecime a factor In the situation.
little
obert did not have Infantile pi- Hon and to piot-i-rve the fiiendshlp of
The Health Department said every ouier union.
Sinks Italian Warship, bnt Is De- questions, first had taken him
.... ..1..1. t ,o liniitn I leti.inmenr s.iin i o n .uu.-i iru .i .
French had cleared the nlr of German I The Presidents plan was u. nu in. " ,,,... '. N man a ,m,r determined than t to
(Hers along the Homme, as I suppose the note as drafted but to add a nMnal he IM a.v d tool h " ... n. r l m m I than to
Allies have done elsewhere. When we po.tcrlpt stating in effee that ti ls -J" ;, h,r., V,.rVm" Court a c- Slates. Spain. Sweden. Norway and a I
"...."-.V.'.0. e"A". ln2 1 .O0"m'nii:"a..n"1 r Z "nVd ion. b failed The ., , gster remained , the Am-tl ai. .eb.cs now eni.,?. Ru
iiiuucn iiini i.ri,rlcT uif rrrncn raiftr linn oi m. iiu..4ij .,. - - - ,,w.,. nf.v.eleht .lav. Ye.ter. 1 shod d seek to maintain that ne.ice In-
who was piloting me saw an aeroplane ' rushing cases as proof that the I.usl- In th. hop Ital I f.) -"! i15?' ..V " J,r. i nnd couri oil" In-i. enVroo .hn
,w-irr ms m i, rvS x "3i -r
wnctow,lheFh,lnes91 W WWS TZ ? WW Lti
0UI I??. adjustment by negotiation, was t r from in pood condition. "oTrZVllnVTlo
, air. ifiiir.rn w;.n in.iureu to anil in.ir the n.imn.e n cuiirr v,., v .... i
he had ascended at Peronne. Thn
1 French officer, he said in reply to further
the nnmo
The fnct that the German communica
tion regarding the Gultllght came Jus:
Continued on Fourth Page.
strayed br Wreckage.
ilm to a ns the I.usltanla note was about to be
and then pent made the addition of the addendum A
FORECLOSE ON NICARAGUA.
' great height about a mile
hud swung out over the great pun.1. .ni..,i nrnrerture It was added to
I-nxnox. Oct. 19. A despatch to the booming away far below. And while nte nnd annroved by Secretary
Rxchange Telegraph from Athens says: (the ltrltlsh were getting their final sue. I ltryan, who regarded It ns precluding
nirrlcnn Hankers to Take liver
Intcrnnl Revenues ti Meet Debts,
MAS'Ant'A, Nicaragua. Oct. 29 Atner
which leaves Americans Kelpies ngaln't
llie lawlessness of any country In which
they havu a liulit to do business.
Wlittt Faces l.nlmr.
There confronts labor In the next fouf
years u condition more serious than nny
"Tho Corfu correspondent of Kmfcroi i cessful death grips on the Germans de- any possibility of a dlploma'lc crisis ran .ire taking over the management , that American laboitug men have been
ports that the wreckage of an Italian (ending Comhles, Mr, Davison and the ! i, as marked "confidential." bocau It 1 of a) the Internal revenues f Nlcnr-1 called upmi t" fiiee When this war lie-
renort
. . .. . ..-.. I,1nimn i,n hv n ....... 1.... .....II... ... .... ..
lOri1!" l'U,l. u.o,,, ....... .,- j .. i,ik-i iih -.a,i- n. Mtltl Ul UUH UllWIl lafl
mine laid by nn Austrian submarine off tn i(,nK ovals for about un hour.
the Uplrus coast rell upon me suumarinc
nnd destroyed It."
simply a hastily added postscript aKUll
REPORTED LA F0LLETTE DEAL,
San Fall Sweep ot Ilattle
The Farman biplane In which they I
ew, Mr. Davison said, was arranged
. ...... ....i.i. ..a ..... i,..., ,
to a communication iu.n n...
digested.
Cabinet Nearly Ignored. I
Just when other members of the Cabl-
tan ov.r a million Ametli'ini working-
men were seeking; vainly for eninlov-
A despatch from Minagua October 1 n-ent. When the war ends ami the de
said It was l.'porl.'d that American veloped enemies of a new I'liiope urn
bankeiH to whom the Nleiraguan Gov. I tin-own Into loiiiinereiiil prodtii'tlnn our
eitinunt was ir.il.iit.'d had not. Hod the nation will face a competition such as It
mat
1 1
nuiuirauiy i.r uiwrvawun or ine ooin- net learned ot tne iioMrni'i i-. n.,. , , r A i 1.1..1.... . .... .-...!... r . ., ,
Democratic Senatorial Candidate hardments and Infantry fighting below. SeflnlteW known. It Is stated n cn- liquidate tVe I"' 'IdfdiH f;,,'' , '" " "" mu-t happen
, r . . and the great rfelght at which he viewed ' .. Ii ,,.h,Vritv however that the note otherwise- they would take over either millions of men will le t-eel; in?
, Wisconsin Hint, at Trickery. "he hJj'thit was on Seiteinlwr 27 Tall h'add '''"' C0U,ltrJ'' r"v,,UM I ' ' '1 " '' -
M11.WAUKRC, Wis.. Oct. 59. Wlscon- enabled him to look down upon a tre- I reaching the telegraph office before "' " " r(Mlnrlp,, ,,,, ,,, ,..,,,, "'"UKht out In advam-e the problem of
sin Democrats favorable to W. F. Wolfe., mendous sweep ot battle ridden country eTb,net members had a chance to ,,, , V rll commercial organisation as l-Va.ue nmi
candidate for United States Senator, are' . all times. "j"et The only fact pertaining to the!'...V Hub and and Gennany ...e tu tn
agitated over an alleged conference In He had made a pretty thorough tour a , endum which appears to have be-, , 1 '"'i1. 'VuOO to the Ft Hunk out thn Piolile.,, to-biy Ivory
Madison yesterday In which It Is re-l0f the trenches at Verdun also, he said . "on,' known was that the note contain-1 '-."j00 one of these nations i piepa, u.-r t .1...
,K,rted that the Wilson Democrats ar- n answer to further questions about ex- f,, "nearly reached the telegraph of-1 f-n. I' ' ' '' " Kotecllva
ranged a deal with I.a Follette to give perlences at tho front. Then ho had de- nnd was then called back," It Is 1- a fn 1 ;"'r- f ' ss 10 T tar, IT. The end of the war will end also
him support for Senator In return for v,ed six days solely to travelling by "m that Senator Lodge, naturally In- 0, '00 ) , m A nor Mil S wl ' opportunities f..r 1 . .or created by
hi. fniina-.' votes for Wilson for miin.nnhlle nnd on foot alonir ih. hnle Tl'...... 1,, the nnveeedlngs. cut li s first " 1 'V'" 1,1 10 ?.' ." 'cr'"" r-'"1') wun ,,0 ..,ri .) h tn,u,ons In the t tenches
President and Williams for Governor. ne of trenches from Verdun to the inkling nf the mysterious postscript at
Tho Democratic leaders deny tnat any Rrttlsli trenches on tho Homme, On a that time,
such conference was held, but the Wolfe nearby table as he spoke last night was Mr. Garrison H understood nt once to
Democrats are tncreuuious, especially in . n rusty looking German helmet und n have taken the position inai ine auuen-
rustler shell case which he had picked uum to a note ucn as me i-resmeni
nn on battlefields, and on tho same table i.nd written completely vitiated the
view of the fact that In Hryan's speeches
In Wisconsin he Ignored the Woire can
didacy, France Fays fnfi lor V. S, Ralls.
lUi.TlMoitE, Oct. 29. An order from
Ihe French State Railways for 50,000
Ions of rails at a cost of $5,1 a ton has
been received by the Bethlehem Steel
Company t Sparrows Point. The price
Is $25 a ton more than the present stand
ard cost for rails In this country. De
livery Is to be made next year.
LATEST AUSTRALIAN RETURNS.
was the gray blue steel neimct or
France which Gen. Petaln had given to
him to wear In the trenches.
"No, It wasn't altogether Idle curiosity
that brought me to the front," Mr, Davi
son said In reply to a final question.
"As somebody has put It, there was an
opportunity to 'see history In the mak
ing' and I took It, not through curiosity
but because I wanted to learn something
of military advancement at first hand."
tirm demands" and amounted to ussur-'
Ing Germany privately noi 10 iukb ine
noto seriously.
It Is said, to President Wilson's credit,
that ho realized this as soon ns Mr.
Garrison had explained It, He took sides
against Mr. Bryan's fight for the relen
tlon of the confidential postscript.
Immediately after Mr. Bryan's reslg-
Continued on Third Page.
Referendum Show SII.OIIO Mnjnrlty
AriiIiiiI f iiiise rlptlnii.
Mill not'nSK, Australia, via London,
Oct, 30. The latest returns In the
referendum on cumpulsmy military ser
vico show the following le.sulls, although
atlll Incomplete;
For i (inscription, 79S.OOO; against
conscription, RS7.000,
It Is expected tho returns will show a
totnl of 2,000,000 votes polled,
to-day will be our Industrial romiictHnrn
to nun row. If vvv! me our labor.
Ing men fmni a riiliilroih we must
plan a tariff protection along t oiiinl. Just
nmi economic lines. To this i mlravor I
pledge myself nnd the men who aid to
bo my colleagues.
In this mailer again 1 differ alisolu'elir
from thn pulley of the preM'tit llnltlls
tt.itloii 1 i,n,,cralc pl.it'orms, l ive de.
liareil tint Ihe Government has no i ,ght
to levy taiilf duties cv.vnl f ir Income,
This Is the fiinil.incM.il fi, li of tho
Democratic par'v
1 pledge iiivs.if and th.se who , ind
with mo In deal vv 111 the needs of labor.
Ing man the cuuiiii y out, wb.i'-ie 'heir
yiS:fert,.KW-W
