THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO'. 193.
JiARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, OCTOHER HO, 1016.
PRTCE, ONE CENT.
KAISER
BREAKS
PLEDGE
British Steamship Marina
Torpedoed Without Warn
ing:, According to Report
Received by the American
Embassy in London from
the American Consul at
Queenstown
NORWAY HAS LOST
ONE-SEVENTH OF
HER SHIPPING
FATE OF HER CREW
NOT WHOLLY KNOWN
It Is Believed That There
Were a Number of Amer
icans on Marina, Which
Was Attacked off the Irish
Coast The Vessel Left
the United States Sept 1
London, Oct. 30. The American em
bassy here to-day received a report from
Wesley Frost, the American consul at
Queenstown, that the British steamship
Marina had been torpedoed w ithout warn
ing. It is believed that there were a
number of Americans aboard. Thirty
four members of the crew of 104 were
picked up and landed at Crookhaven Ire
huid. Lloyds reports that a steamer an
chored off C'rookhaven signalled that it
had picked up the crew of the Marina.
Frost is now procuring affidavits from
the survivors' report of the sinking on
Oct. zn ot the British steamship Dowan
more, also made to the American em
bassy to-day by Frost, who states that
the vessel was torpedoed. Seven Amer
icans, including five Filipinos, were on
board the Rowanmore. Several have giv
en affidavits stating that the submarine
shelled the lifeboats while they were be
ing lowered and after they were clear of
the ship but caused no loss of life.
German Submarine War Has Been More
Destructive to It Proportionately
Than to British Shipping
Interests.
London, Oct. 30. Much space, devoted
in the morning newspapers to-day to a
discussion of Germany' submarine war
on Norwegian trade, pointed out that
Norway has now lost one-seventh of her
total merchant shipping, about four per
eent proportionately more than Great
Britain.
Concerning this The Times nays edi
torially: "There is no possible excuse
for this wanton savage attack on ships
of a neutral power. Germany pretends
that the reason for the campaign is Nor
way's decree prohibiting belligerent sub
marines entering Norwegian waters? but
this decree is practically identical with
the regulations already long in force in
Holland and (Sweden, which were unchal
legned by Germany. The larger and more
sinister purpose of the German onslaught
is that Germany aims impartially at
the destruction of tonnage during the
war with the intention of supplying its
place from German ships hereafter."
The Daily Mail suggests that Germany
raav be wantonly seeking to force war
on Norway or possible hopes to foment
strife between Norway and Sweden to
her own advantage.
REPEAT THRUST
EAST OF SAILLY
AND ADVANCE
French Relinquish Efforts on
Verdun Front for Time
being and Make Vigorous
Assault on Somme Front,
Capturing a System of
Trenches
THEY WENT AHEAD
TO SAILLY CHURCH
ARREDONDO MAKES DENIAL
The Marina, which has been engaged
in trans-Atlantic service, was a vessel of
5.204 tons. She was last reported as
arriving at Glasgow the 10th, having
failed from Newport News on Sept. 1.
50 AMERICANS
ON THE MARINA
ON EASTWARD TRIP
They Signed as Horsemen and Gave Their
Residences in Various Parts of the
United States.
Newport News, Oct. 30. There were 50
Americans on the British steamship Ma
rina, which sailed from here. The Amer
icans signed as horsemen and gave their
homes in various sections of the I'nited
States. Local agents sav that the cable
advices reported the Marina left Glasgow
for Newport News Oct. 25 in ballast.
That Cabrera Assailed the United States
Government.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 30. Eliseo Ar
redondo, Mexican ambassador designate,
issued a statement last night to the ef
feet that the reiKirted statement of Luis
C abrera, chairman of the .Mexican contin
gent of the joint international commis
sion, assailing the American government
for permitting aid to reach ilia and
other bandits, was not true.
The statement alleged to have been
furnished the American News bureau by
Cabrera was in part as follows:
"In the United States are many Mex
icans and groups of Mexicans inimical to
the Carranza government, l'lottings and
schemings without end are engaged in,
not alone by" the extreme conservatives,
who are striving to bring on intervention
with the hope that the constitutional
government shall be destroyed with the
aid of American armies, but also there
are groups of extremely radical malcon
tents whose hope is the destruction of
the Carranza government in order that
license, banditry and rapine may continue
and multiolv until human rights and
property rights all are destroyed.
"The conservatives, reactionaries, are
taking advantage of the situation created
by the ultra-radicals. The importation
of ami's and munitions for the use of
Villa, Zapata and the other bandits and
brigands is conducted under the very eyes
of supine officials, whose business it
would be to hinder their transmission
across the border.
"The propaganda of revolt against con
stituted order is being promoted by
scores of conspirators, known to both the
Mexican and the American officials, who,
bv even the most strictly literal immi
gration laws, should be deported from
the United States."
The Germans Repeatedly At
tacked Between Biaches
and the Region South of
La Maisonette and Finally
Gained a Footing in Some
Farm Buildings Near the
Latter Place
Paris, Oct. 30. A system of German
trenches northeast of Sailly-Saillisel on
the Somme front was captured by the
French last night, the war office an
nounces. The French advanced as far as
Sailly church.
South of the Somme the Germans
made repeated attacks between Biaches
and the region south of LaMaisonette.
By means of this last attempt they ob
tained a footing in some Maisonette
farm buildings, the statement says.
On the Verdun front the artillery
fighting was less severe near Douaumont,
and there was no infantry action in that
locality. Rheims was bombarded violent
ly and some civilians were killed.
A TRIPLE MIX-UP.
Horse Scared by Runaway Horse Bolted
Into Street Car.
Bellows Falls, Oct. 30. An automobile
driven by Walter II. Glynn of Naxton
Hiver struck carriage driven by Dorr
inayer ot iieur-vs rails about (I o'clock
last night near the Sabin bridge in North
Westminster. Mr. Thayer was thrown
from the carriage and sustained slight
injuries.
The harness broke and freed the horse
which ran nearly a mile. When opposite
Albert Ramsay a house in Gagcville it
jumped directly at an electric car, the
car and the animal meeting head-on. The
horse was thrown to one side.
The steel front end of the car crum
pled like paper and .John Dunbar, mo
torman, was pinned between the dash
board and the front door. He sustained
injuries to his legs and chest.' Waldo
Bresland jumped from thejront end and
as the car went past him pulled the trol
ley pole off the wire stopping the car,
which Dunbar was unable to do. Alvin
Bollard was riding on the front end of
the car and sustained a gash in his fore
head and was pinned in the wreckag.
The horse's back, was broken and it had
to bo killed.
A. F. OF t NOT PLEDGED.
Secretary Morrison Issued Statement in
Denial of Report.
V
Pittsburg. Ta.i Oct. 30. Denial that
the American Federation of Lalior is sup
porting any one sut $f candidates in the
present campaign was made in a speech
uere yesterday by frank Morrison, sec
retary of the organization.
The chief deception practiced in this
campaign is the charge that trade union
officials are trying to deliver the votes
of the membership to one candidate or
set of candidates," said Secretary Morri
son, "ana always such charges, oddly.
contain the intimation that another and
different set of candidates should be fa
vored. Lest there lie misunderstanding
of the position of the American Federa
tion of labor let it be stated that the
federation is supporting in this eampaign
Republican, Democratic and Socialist
candidates for office where these candi
dates have declared in favor of legisla
tion for the amelioration of the candi
dates of the wage workers of the country."
TALK OF THE TOWN
BRITISH GAINS
ARE ADMITTED
BY GERMANY
Between Lesboeufs and Morval They Ad
vancedBerlin Tells of Success
Against French.
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 30. British
troops attacking the German lines on
the Somme front between Lesboeufs and I middle western states, returned to his
Rev. L F.. Skinner of Thurso. Scotland,
assisted the pastor of the First Presbyte
rian church at the Sunday evening services.
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Thompson of Shel
burne, who came to ee Mrs. Thompson's
mother, Mrs. L. O'Kelley, who is ill at
her home on Prospect street, returned to
their home last night. They made the
trip by automobile.
Henry Tierney of Central street, who
was called to Springfield, Mass., last week
by the accidental death of his niece, re
turned to Harre this morning and has re
sumed his duties, in, the office of the
American Express Co. . -
F. G. Nowland. who left about three
weeks ago to attend the Episcopal con
vention in St. Louis, Mo., and while awav
attended to other business matters in the
WIFE IS DEAD,
MAN IS DYING
Mrs. Geo. Geen Was Burned
to Death at Keene,
N. H.
FORMER BARRE RESIDENT.
CLEANED A CLOSET
BY CANDLE LIGHT
And Bottle of Gasoline Ex
ploded, Setting Them
on Fire
Keene, N. H., Oct. 30. Mrs. George
Geen died to-day at the hospital, where
her husband lies in a critical condition
as the result of burns received yesterday
when a bottle of gasolene exploded while
they were cleaning a closet at their home
by candle light. Physicians said that
there was little hope of recovery for
the man. Mr. Geen was proprietor of a
laundry here.
Mr. Geen s bums were above the waist
and were deep. Mrs. Geen's bodv was
completely burned, with the exception of
a space about six inches square on her
treast. The burns were not as deep as
those suffered bv her husband, however.
The flames spread from the closet to
an adjoining room and caused several
hundred dollars' damage before extin
guished.
Smoke damaged the photograph rooms
of tred D. Howe, overhead, and water
damaged the stock of Bullard 4 Shedd's
drug store, beneath.
110 TONS OF HAY BURNED.
MONTPELIER
WASHINGTON HEARS
AMERICANS WERE
ON THE MARINA
State Department Is Investigating to See
If Any of Germany's Pledges Are
Broken.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 30. Despatches
to the state department say that the Ma
rina when sunk had a mixed crew of
British and Americans and that the ves
sel was sunk by gunfire without warning.
Consul Frost specified that the informa
tion transmitted was provisional. ,
An investigation will be made to deter
mine the status of the Marina and the
nature of the attack to determine wheth
er any of Germany's pledges to the
L'nited" States were violated.
Mrs. Heman
DEATH AT ALBURG.
Had Been 111
W. Marvin
Some Time.
Alburg, Oct. 30. Mrs. Lenora Hazen
Marvin, wife of Heman W. Marvin, died
Sunday morning after a long illness fol
lowing pneumonia. She leaves besides
her husband one daughter. Mrs. David G.
l.atshaw of Brooklyn, and two sons, Dr.
David Marvin of Essex Junction and
Bovee Marvin of Lyon Mountain, N. Y.
For many years she was a teacher and
more recently was postmistress. The fu
neral will be held Tuesday afternoon at
2 o'clock.
State Cases to Be Taken Up in County
Court Tuesday.
Judge E. L. Waterman arrived in the
city Sunday evening and this forenoon
in county court heard arguments on ex
ceptions taken in the Jobm-Bertrand
suit which was tried at the last term
of court. Judge Fish tvill reconvene
court this afternoon and the jury will
report at 9 o'clock tomorTow forenoon
to try the two state cases, State vs.
Pasquale Coai. charged with assault with
intent to kill, and State vs. Wilbur
Thorton, assault and robbery.
COAL PRICES SOAR.
Providence Consumers Paying 12 and
$12.50 Ton.
t
Providence, R. I., Oct. 3ft Retail prices
of domestic sizes of coal increased from
$2.50 to $3 a ton to-day. making the cur
rent prices $12 to $12.50 a ton.
ON SECRET MISSION.
in
Austrian and Bulgarian Ministers
Mexico Proceed to WSEIngton.
San Antonio. Tex., Octi 30. Two Eu
ropean ministers to. Mexico passed
through San Antonio jVsf)crJay en route
from Mexico City to Washington on mis
sions which they refused to dicu in
any y. They were not traveling to
Relatives in the city of Fred J. Ro
bar, a former granite manufacturer of
Montpelier and now a resident of Bur
lington, were apprised to-day of an ac
cident in which his automobile figured at
Franklin, N. II., Saturday. His Overland
automobile was struck by a train and
the machine, damaged beyond repair, Mr.
Kbbar being thrown twenty feet, but es
caping with a broken rib.
J. Burton Pike of Marshficld has leased
of C. L. Parmenter the Riverside on
State street and will take possession
January 1. at which time the lease of
HMrs. L. W. Hanson expires. Dr. and
Mrs. Hanson have purchased of L. D.
Bancroft, administrator of the estate of
Mrs. I. C. Vail the residence on Baldwin
street, the transaction being made
through the M. A. Hoadley agency.
William Farwell, a student at Am
herst college, passed the week end in the
city with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Hen
ry Farwell of Main street, returning to
day to Amherst, Mass.
Fred L. Baird, jr., returned last even
ing to Hanover, N. II., where he is at
tending Dartmouth college, after spend
ing a few days in the city with his par
ents.
Mrs. Delia Sumner, who baa been mak
ing a visit in the city with relatives. left
Sunday for her borne in Bristol, Conn.
Miss Hazel freer went yesterdav to
Concord, N. H., where she will make a
visit with relatives.
Mrs. T. J. Crozier left Sunday after
noon for Montreal, where she will make
a visit with relatives.
Prospects for the Yermont--Norwich
football game being played at Intercity
park ere not very bright, plans to have
the contest played between the two cities
having been started too late and it is
Morval 1iave succeeded in gaining some
ground from the Germans, the war office
announced to-day.
South of the Somme, French positions
from LaMaisonette farm to Biache were
stormed after a successful artillery op
eration. Massed attacks of Russian infantry in
Volhynia yesterday, following an unusu
ally violent artillery preparation, broke
down nuder German fire, the statement
says.
The capture of several strongly de
fended positions near the Hungarian-Rumanian
frontier was announced. In Do
brudja Von Mackensen's forces, continu
ing the pursuit of the Russians and Ru
manians, have come in contact with the
Russians. Heavy fighting is in progress
on the Macedonian front below Monastir,
the statement says. Repulse of French
and Serbian attacks is announced.
FIERCE STRUGGLE
IN .MACEDONIA
Official Report Received in Paris States
That Serbians, Supported by French
Artillery, are Desperately Engaged.
Paris, Oct. 30. The official report from
the Macedonian front says that Serbian
troops in the'Cerna region, supported by
French artillery, are engaged in a fierce
struggle with the Germans and Bulga
ABANDONED ON DOORSTEP.
Bouncing BUck-Eyed Baby Left at an
Orleans House
home on French street last rfight
Chief C. B. Gladding of the fire depart
ment will be in Montpelier to-morrow to
attend the annual meeting of the state
firemen's association, which convenes in
the afternoon. A number of other fire
men, including the department engineers
in Barre, expect to attend the gathering
in the evening.
Charles Collins, the young son of Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Collins of Spaulding
street, is able to be about on crutches
after having been confined to the house
for a few weeks as the result of a liga
ment sprain which he sustained while
playing sometime ago. The boy is now
able to attend to bis school duties.
E. L. Zio. G. Bernaseoni r.nd G. Croci,
Barre granitecutters. leave the city this
evening for New York, where they are to
spend a few days with their countrymen
before sailing Thursday on the Italian
liner Oiuseppi Verdi, for their former
home in northern Italy. Messrs. Zio, Ber
naseoni and Croci expect to be absent
from Bart several months.
Miss Evelyn Slayton, who is employed
in the central office of the Vermont Tel.
A Tel. Co. in Montpelier was tsken quite
seriously ill while visiting at the home
of her sister, Mrs. McDonald, in the Miles
block late yesterday. This morning her
Illness was diagnosed as appendicitis and
she was removed in an ambulance to the
City hospital, where she submitted to an
operation at once.
News has been received in Barre relat
ing the death of Carlo Spagnoli in Italy
CK't. 25, death following a lingering illness
of several years. Mr. Spagnoli sailed for
Genoa last June to see if he would not be
benefited by the change in climate, but
had gradually failed in inlth since he
sailed from -America. He leaves a wife
Fire at Orleans Undoubtedly Was Set by
Boys.
Orleans. Oct. 30. The old Gillis barn
n Irasburg street, owned bv the E. I
Chandler Co., was completely destroyed
by fire Sunday afternoon. The building
contained 1 10 tons of hay and the fire
was probably set by three bovs who were
seen running from back of the building
bout the tune the tire was discovered.
The village fire department responded
to the alarm and did well to save the
nearby buildings which caught because
of the stiff breeze which blew toward
them. Part of the time the firemen were
obliged to be protected from the flames
by a large door which other helpers held
over them. '
The four-inch water main on the street
did not give sufficient presseure for the
needed stream and two of the mill com
pany's pumps were set in action.
The building and contents were a total
loss. Guards watched the place during
the night, for the hay was burning until
a late hour.
SAVED THE GARAGE.
But Nearly All Other Buildings on Farm
Were Burned.
West Berkshire. Oct. 30. The farm
buildings of W. M. Armstrong, east of
this village, were burned Saturday night.
The fire started in an open shed between
the house and bfwn and the flames spread
rapidly to the two buildings. Only a
garage, granary and poultry house were
saved. The livestock was saved as well
as a part of the household effects. All
of the farm machinery was burned. The
loss is about $fl,000 and the insurance
about. S4.000. The cause of the fire is
unknown.
George A. Drew Passed Away in Cabot
Sunday Night.
George A. Drew, a former resident of
Barro and for many year engaged in the
contracting business here, died at his
home in Eust Cabot Sunday night at 10
o'clock. Ho leaves his wife, who was
Mrs. George Briggs, to whom he was
married in Mmrisville 15 years ago, and
several step-children. Mr. Drew was a
native of Guildhall and had he lived un
til Jan. 27, 1917, he would have been
fit years old. He came to Barre around
27 years ago and built up a successful
contracting business. He was here when
realty interests in the eitv were at a
premium and many dwelling houses and
other buildings were erected by him. In
recent years lie had erected buildings on
Iong and King streets. He moved to
East Cabot 12 years ago and had since
conducted a large farm. Although in
declining health for some years, Mr.
Drew had disposed of his stock and was
planning to puss the winter in Florida
when his condition took a turn for the
worse.
The funeral will be held at the Drew
home in East Cabot Tuesday forenoon st
10 o'clock. Rev. .7. B. Reardon, pastor
of the I'niversalist church of this city
officiating. The body will be brought
to Barre for interment in the family lot
in Elmwood cemetery.
UNCONSCIOUS
FOR SOME TIME
Miss Dorothy Savage of
Swanton Hit by an
Automobile ,
BAG DAY COLLECTIONS.
Result of the Ladies' Efforts for the Hos
pital Made Public.
The Hospital Aid society, through its
bag day committee, makes the following
detailed statement of the donations to
the hospital on its third annual bag day.
A conservative estimate o values was
made on all articles as given below:
Barre City. '
Telly
Preserves
rickles
Canned goods
Groceries
Vegetables and fruit
Miscellaneous
Money
BAD CUT ON HEAD;
ONE LEG INJURED
Her Pr
'.'ians Expect That
e Will Re-
' cover r
$13.S0
2S.10
15.05
n.4i
m.nn
71.54
e.nfl
1.25
$165.10
South Barre.
Telly, preserves, pickles, etc.
Fruit and vegetables
Miscellaneous
Swanton, Oct. 30. Miss Dorothy Sav
age, aged 18 years, of Swanton Junction
was seriously injured yesterday after
noon when she was struck by an auto
mobile owned and driven by Louis Hogle
of this town. She was cut about tho
head and one leg was injured. The young
woman was unconscious for some time.
Her physicians. Drs. A. L. Cross and C. E.
Allen, expect that she will recover. Tho
accident happened near tho Dorman farm
on the St. Albans road. ThCTiutomobile
was somewhat damaged.
OPERATION PERFORMED.
East Barre.
Iv, preserves, etc
Fruit and vegetables
Graniteville.
Tellv, preserves, etc
Fniit and vegetables
To Relieve Condition of Waterbury
Youth Hit by Automobile.
Waterbury, Oct. 30. Harold Wood
ward of Waterbury Center, who was
struck by an automobile driven by II. H.
Patch of Barre near this place last Mon
day, is in Mary Fletcher hospital where
ne was taken Saturday by Dr. G. S.
Bidwell and the young man's father,
Warner Woodward. It was thoueht that
$fi.l jthe boy was getting along well until late
!.-' , in tne wee when he developed a tem
1.00 1 perature, after it was decided to take
him to the hospital. On arrival there
it was thought necessary to perform an
operation for traumatic appendicitis. The
operation was performed at 9 o'clock
Saturday night, and to-day it was re
ported that the patient was doing as
well as could be expected. He is 15
years of age.
$22.00
7.oa
$9.71
$5.52
2.00
Montpelier Road.
Telly preserves, etc
Fruit and vegetables
East Montpelier Road.
Jellv. preserves, etc.
Fruit and vegetables
$7.52
$1.5
3.P5
$5.49
$1.95
1.50
. $3.45
This makes a total of $213.27.
In addition to this, a large quantity of
fine old linen and cotton was sent in,
something that it is impossible to value,
but of great value to the hospital.
The children from the jsecKiey mil
school sent in a fine quilt that they pieced
themselves.
INSTANTLY KILLED.
When Automobile Overturned Near Han
son, Mass.
Hanson, Mass.. Oct. 30. Joseph Gil
bert, proprietor of a munitions works at
Brockton and" for many years one of the
best known men connected with the au
tomobile business in this section of New
England, wag instantly killed about 8
o'clock last night, when an automobile
in which he was returning, with three
companions, from a day's outing at Lake
Monpontsett overturned.
A TERPSICHOREAN TUSSLE
LARGE FARM LOSS.
i a :.. :i.i
Orleans, Oct. 30.-A baby boy was left P T V V, l " i' lZu"
on the doorstep of C. . Skinner of Easit . .
Rrownington, early Sunday morning. 1 v "" , "nani siren
The child is said to be about 15 months jls receipt ot a telegram relating tne
old, healthy, and weighs about 25 pounds, dR,u of Arthur Ordway of Salt Lake
with darkhair and black eves. It waslCit-v' Vtah vrday morning at 7
dressed in old clothes and wrapped in a!'cI,H'k ''11,nvlnr an operation for a se-
horse blanket. It looked as if a nianlv,,ra ot Pl,nnicni. -Mr. tiruway
had eared for it for some time.Vt seemed I1""1 Wn stricken with the disease less
twtter onntenfed with mon ha ith i than 24 hours when death occurred. He
women. will lie remembered in Barre as a gran-
The 'only idea that the authorities man in th firm "f ;"ore K ,,,ni
have where the baby came from is, that 'having been m Mr. Bond's employ for
an automobile was heard by .Miss Elsie, ov" " -Mr- "ay went, away
. ... - . 1 f. !).. .. 1 . an.An . .
Skinner, dauirhter of Mrs. Sk nner and .-" j'-
a teacher in the Irasburg schools, about
Buildings of John E. Eagan Near Bristol
Burned.
Bristol, Oct. 30. Between 11 and 12
o'clock Saturday night John E. Eagan's
house and farm buildings south of this
villaee were destroyed by fire. The fire
was discovered bv Mr. Eagan in thechim
ney of the fireplace and before help could
lie summoned was beyond control, spread
ing to the toolhouse, thence to the large
bam. The stock was saved, but all the
farm implements and large1 quantities of
hay and gram were a total loss. I he
build inirs were insured for $7,000. The
Iobs was $12,000.
14 B0ATH0USES BURNED.
4 a. m. Soon after she heard a child
crying but thinking it was the baby ot
her brother's &he paid no attention to it.
until later when she was again aroused.
She went to the door and found the
toddling child. -
The selectman, E. N. Porter, and Luke j
prooaoie wai tfle game win oe piayei ai p.rown, ntl Overseer of the Poor F. G.
Northfield. Saturday Nov. 4. Crandall were called and a temporary
,rar,r,: '".'""'""""J " -' ' i home was found for the deserted baby.
N. Theri-
ault has mailed checks to the common
creditors of the Granite City General
stre of Barre. a dividend of five per
cent having been declared. The preferred
creditors have been paid in full.
Miss Marion Luce returned this aft
ernoon to White River Junction, where
she is employed, after spending a few
days in the city with her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Gilman Luce of Cliff street.
Julian Willey of Greensboro is vis
iting in the city with his brother, Ralph
Willev of Baldwin street.
Kdward H. Deavitt left Sunday f!r
The affair has stirred up the entire
ing to Salt Lake City five years ago to
assume the responsibilities as manager
in a monumental shed in that city. He
leaves to mourn his loss his wife and
daughter, Doris.
'Coon hunters from Barre are exhibit
ing two exceptionally fine pelts which
they took from animals discovered on the
road between Washington and Chelsea
Saturday. One of the raccoons weighed
25 pounds and its mate tipped the beam
at 22. The skins are shown in the Hough-
community and the authorities are doing (ton 4 Robins store and while it is too
all in their power to locate the parties 'early for the fur to be fully prime, the
responsible for the deed.
THREE NEW CASES
Bring Vermont's Total of Poliomyelitis
to 52.
Burlington. Oct. 30. Cases of infantile
paralysis in Milton. (Borgia and Wood
stock were reported to the state bard
of health to-dav. making total of 52
Eleven
fur is soft and the color runs true
Messrs. Thomas McGiff. Bert Bart
lett and Fmest Bartlett were tramp
ing the woods just eat of Washington
when they espied the "roon family amb
ling through the bruh. Three hunters
immediately gave chase, with the result
that one of them one of the 'coos
was dispatched forth ith. The other
shinned tin a tree and the be-f part of
the ilav and early evening was given over were pening crms an hour tor
it n 4 tij mU t4a iuiutaw wtua, LiUk a wt in &iue Lotus,
Loss at Lake Bomoseen Sunday Morning
Was $3,000.
Rutland. Oct. 30. Summer cottage.
owners at Lake Bomoseen living in this
eitv and Fair Haven lost $3.(MH1 worth of
property Sunday morning when 14 out of
a string of 16 boathouses at Hydeville,
the railroad station for the lake, were
burned. All were small wooden struc
tures. Five motor boats and a doz.en row
boats and canoes were destroyed.
The fire, discovered at midnight, was
of unknown origin. A string of boat
houses on the game site burned three
years ago.
HERBERT T. MTJRD0CK DEAD.
Was Owner of Woolen Mill in Proctors
ville. Ludlow, Oct. 30. Herbert T. Murdock.
owner of the Murdock Woolen mill at
Proetorsville, died at his home in that
village at midnight Saturday. He was
born in I'xbridge. Mass., Sept. 11, 1MH5,
on of Mr. and Mrs. Lewis II. Murdock.
in 1S0O he purchased an interest
in the Proetorsville mill, and subsequent
ly bought out his two associates. He
leaves a wife, two daughters and a
mother. The funeral will be held Wed
nesday, with burial at I'xbridge Thursday.
Is Promised at Goose Green and Squag
Holler Ball.
Committees representing the Goose
Green and Squag Holler ball clubs, which
are staging the costume dance in How
land hall Wednesday evening for the
playground benefit and under the patron
age of the Woman's club, met this morn
ing to consider additional plans for the
big festival. It should be borne in mind
that dancers are asked to come in cos
tume, although tho affair is not to be a
masquerade. I'ersons appearing in yoke
or unassisted without costumes wjll not
be permitted to join in the dancing until
after the fourth inning.
Saturday evening an amateur Billie the
Boy Artist and a small-sized horde of
pipers gave North Main street the up and
down and when their work was done ft
large number of display windows had
been daubed artistically and otherwise
with conspicuous signs indicating the way
to the big carnival. The indications are
that the Green people and the Holler
folks will perform before a capacity
house.
INJURED BY HOME RUNNER.
WANT MORE PAY.
Machinists ia Winoosld Struck
To-day.
Burlington, Oct. 30. Eleven emploves
of the Stevens machine shops in Winno
ski struck to-day for more pav. Thcv
10
TALK OF THE TOWN
Robert Brown of Windsor returned to
Windsor this morning, after spending the
week end at the home of his parents.
Mr. and Mrs. John Brown, of Bassett
street.
Mrs. II. Mutch and Miss V. Cordclli of
Hardwick arrived in the city Saturday
ciirht to visit at the home of Mrs. P.
Riccarelli of Berlin street. Mrs. Mutch
returned to her home in Hardwick last
night, but Miss Cordelli will remain in
Barre for several days.
Mr. and Mrs. James Gow of Liberty
street entertained as guests over the
week end Miss Marjorie Whitcomb. Ray
mond Whitcomb, Mr. and Mrs. II. M.
Hazen of South Royalton and Mrs. M.
Green of New York City. The party
returned to South Royalton last evening.
News has been received in Barre of the
wedding in Detroit, Mich., ot Miss Gladys
Muriel Lane, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Albert D. Lane of Montpelier. to Paul
Plestid, son of Mr. and Mrs. John Plestid
of Barre. They are to reside in Detroit,
where the groom is employed. The bride
lived in Montpelier until recently and
Mr. Plestid was employed for a time as a
chauffeur.
Several members of the Italian colony
of North Barre will leaveto-night for
New York, there to visit friends until
Nov. 2, when they board the liner Giu
seppi Verdi to sail for Genoa, Italy.
From Genoa they will journey to their
native town, Bremo I'serica, Italy, where
they will remain through the winter
months, after which they will return
to Barre. Among those booked to sail
are Mrs. S. Bottiz.ini and two children,
J. Bernasco and Attilio Colombo.
Coach W. T. Maiden of the Montpclier
seminary football team visnea i ins
home on Highland avenue to-day. Coach
Maiden is much elated over his team's
showing against Spaulding high school
Friday and believes he has an eleven tnai
will contend strongly for the state cham
pionship. Next Friday the seminary ag
gregation will meet the Randolph Aggies
at Montpelier and efforts are being made
to match the seminary team with Mont
pelier high school, which is one of the log
ical contenders.
This morning at the Tark theatre rep-
. . .- ... , .. . I ' r 1 .. t 1
resentatles oi me ..... ..- ... ..u. 1 A k Ct Tt,.
. Manufacturer' n,l Chum iBa"a: m " J
lit- , .inline - - i .
Owners' associations met to inspect the! bury Baiters.
moving pictures of Haire which were tak- Jolinsburv. Oct. 30.-" St. .Tohnsbury
en bv a New ork filming concern a few bakpr. have raised the price of bread to
weeks ago. That the filming w"as a mov- .., ,, , f two o.,.
ing success was the concensus of opinion T, ri 0 jnt effect Nov. 1.
among all those who attended the private T)io ,(X.a pnii,K.t ion is about 10,000
exhibition. Quarry views, panoramas. olVM ppr ,)r. reduction in the sire
bird-eye views of the city, the manu-jof thp 0f "jte.l of an increase in
facturing and quarry industry and the , ws not lollnt practicable here,
public buildings here in the city as wellj'
a the fire department on dre parade , , . . . A , .
were shown to extent adv.ntace. Com- Mrs. J. P- ork.e returned to her home
mittees from each of the orgs ni.t ions ! Saturday after visiting friends and rela
interested in the lilm spent most of thejtives in Quiiicy, Mass., during the pa-t
forenoon in affixing sub-titles to tlie film j six week. ...
snd when thev are shown pubiieitv. ,a.-h I Kenneth Gale, who is traveling w,tb
section will be title! in Urge letter-. "The Battle Or of Peace to . as
Within a"f. .lavs the public will havejmemSer of it orchestra, arrived in th
it. rr,r,rrtr,iv A lUrr. in the mov- fltv this morning for a Visit St his boU
North Troy Youth Had Ankle Broken
and Was Spiked.
North Troy. Oct. 30. During a base
ball game here Saturday afternoon be
tween the North Troy high school and
the Richford club, Redfers, better known
as Buller, Cartwright, a clerk in Fowler's
store here, was hit by a visiting player
who was making a home run. One of
Cartwright's ankles was broken and he
also was badly spikqd. He was taken to
the hospital at Sherbrooke, P. Q., by Dr.
W. H. White, accompanied by Cart
wright's sister, who is a nurse in Aber
corn, P. Q.
STATION WAS ROBBED.
Johns-
Boston & Maine Building at St.
bury Center Raided.
St. Johnshury, Oct. 30. The Boston
Maine station at St. Johnshury Center
was entered Saturday night and $17 tak
en, hntrance was marte tnrougn a win
dow. Many stations and postoffices in
the small towns have been burglarized in
the past few months with no clues to
the offenders.
BREAD 12 CENTS PER LOAF.
