p j1-? t T'f fr-T net nl r
iiO.Hiluli)
cc;
TKi
12
t or"'
1 CCLUT.riS
PRICE ' TV0 CENTS
i'apcr, LT.i ita Tctzl Circ':L!Jcn b tr.3 Largest in-Connecticut in Proportion t3 tho City's Population.
Tho Cui::tin's Circulation in Ncrv;;:!; !:
that ct
In-
VCL LVlil.NO. 137.
Ji j j i la 'Sail
'. V"1". V" Vlf '"''""WWf fPS Plft
EUJ , 'jl I'll ,
Pilk'li Lai . i
Rr!!h!irms Ca!m!v Orcianizo Vh!!3 LI
Colonel Great Demonstration v
Give
German- Reichstag Passes Budget.
Amsterdam, via London,. Juno 7. 6.06
p. m. A Berlin despatch states that
the reichstag has passed the budget
at all stapes and baa adopted the new
war credit of twelve billion marks.
Memorial 'Service for Lord Kitchener.
London. June 7, 8.40 p. m. A memo -
I rial service to Lord Kitchener will fee
he-Id in St. Paul's cathedral June 13.
King- George and Queen Mary will at
tend the services.
DR. J. GRANT LYMAN GUILTY .
OF MISUSING MAILS
Said to Have Made Over $300,000 in
Various Stock Schemes.
c II, ..;n TV'iirpr Rpnnhlican Kevrcta SiaecK to at
kjciiatui ituuuig -v.- .. - M -- j - i
. r-nnnw ' nllf -"Bw x ui v, ouj.c .. wio jcy .....v..
nOllTITfC E V: r i-WV II'I lilt- l-a-:l MiiY has been trying the case ot.w. J.
UULI I1UUIII4I. WUvJIiii-WfU Ull llli. I IIIUI wni Grant Lyman .charged with using the
l mails to defraud stock investors.
brought in a verdict of guilty today.
after deliberating fifty minutes.
Lyman will be arraigned lor sen
i tence tomorrow. The maximum pen-
oltv under the six counts of th indict
tl -1 r:nr.pr?ntT SrnrM' Democratic Administration ment against him is 30 yeai-B In prison
wu'-e ; ; . land $6,000 fine.
- Cleaned Up $300,000.
Lyman, operating - here under the
firm name of John H. Putnam '& Co.
was said ; to have made more than
$300,000 in a short time by means of
an alleged scheme to sell oil ana min
ing stocks on the installment plan. He
was arrested .last x'ebruary - in tioriaa,
where he had fled on his way to Hon
duras, and was placed under $109,000
bail
-Throughout his trial he acted as his
' Connecticut Men on Committees The Roosevelt Out
burst Eroke All Records No Signs of Reconciliation
' X. R. Urged to Go to Chicago Adjournment Until
, Today. - 4 ' .
Chicago, June 7. The republican
national convention held a session of
exactly two hours at the Coliseum here
1 today, listened for one hour and twenty
minutes to a carefully prepared key
note Bpeech toy ' Senator warren Or.
Harding, the temporary chairman,
perfected its organization and adjourn
- ed nntii 11 o'clock tomorrow morning.
The initial session was brief, eventless
and precise.
A mile away at the Auditorium the
' national progressive convention met in
A . . - , , 1 , , , , 0ADaf.,x UN rtu .li-ij Tom
porary Chairman Raymond Robins'
,' first mention of Theodore Roosevelt,
they broke loose in a demonstration
' that exceeded all records, . for pretty
near two hours broke all records in
cheering and parading.
" - The chairman and the sergeants at
arms surrendered helplessly to the tide
finished his speech an organization was
. -effected, committees appointed and an
l adjournment taken until 2 o'clock to-
A cold, wind-driven rain that has
" fallen ceaselessly on Chicago since
," yesterday afternoon placed vehicles at
'; a premium, drenched delegates and
spectators who ' were, .compelled to
, make their way on foot to and from
the convention halls, and dampened
any attempts at out of door, demon
strations except for the women. Five
thousand - of them, suffragists, from
many .states, trudged for two "hours
ttrougti the downpour.
Hotel corridors reelced with- - wet
raincoats and mubi-ellas, bunting hung
draggled and stained from staffs and
- walle, and booster cdube and booster
; bands quit discouraged with nightfall,
.. . ... i,. . r -1
appointment was ine i6i nw nHornPV in an attemnt to show
first genuine outburst of applause, but own attorney in. an : attempt to show
it was brief. He plunged into his pre
pared speech, appealing' for . harmony,
counseling the delegates that it was
not a time for "recognition but a day
of reconstruction." He spoke - more
than an hour.- referring seldom to- his
manuscript and interrupted frequent
ly by applause and Cheers as -- ne
scored the democratic administration
for inefficiency, incapacity and extra'
office manager, Louis Thornet, and
that he was in a position through the
aid of a mysterious -"vf. fc. Harkness,
declared by the prosecution to be i
myth, r to make good all liabilities of
his brokerage house.
Lyman, summing up for himself, de
clared every promise he had made,
was given in good faith and that every
la dJ:rr the reoublican Prediction he had made to his cus
vagance and declared the republican iv rIa i stnt-ka -had
party's allegiance to protective tariff
and national defense. He closed with
a neroration on Americanism and re
publicanism which was marked with
applause lasting less than a, minute.
The delegates rose, some . cheered.
tomers regarding a rise In stocks "had
held true. - -
. Had Checkered Career,
. Ur. Lyman, who had many aliases,
Was born in Auburn, N. Y., and gain
ed a medical degree in this country,
some hats were thrown in the air and I later Btudyinsr in Germany. He gave
there - was some waving of handker- I up medicine to go into Wall Street
chiefs but they,, settled down quickly I where he became a member of the
I : Chicago, June 7. The republican na
. tional convention assembled In the
i Coliseum- today, heard the . keynote
speecn aeuvered by senator Warren
Ci. Harding of Ohio, perfected an or
ganization and adjourned until 11 o'
clock tomorrow morning. It took just
two noura, ana in its lack of demon
stration and its strict attention to the
business in hand, was reminiscent of
the Philadelphia convention of 1900
that nominated McKinley and Roose
velt. For one -hour and twenty minutes
Senator Harding, the temporary chair
man, delivered a carefully prepared
speech, punctuated in the telling
, points with brief periods of hand
clapping and applause, but at no time
did a demonstration occupy more than
a half minute by the watch.
The convention was twenty-five
minutes behind the hour arranged for
Its assembly, but when Chairman
Hilles of the republican national com
mittee brought down his gavel at 11.25
o'clock it moved quietly and with pre
cision until adjournment at, 1.25.
, - - Leaders Almost Unnoticed.
Those of the old time leaders pres
ent who used to march down the
aisles to their seats to the tune of an
uproar, wanted -in today almost un
recognized. "WV Murray Crane, Sena
tor. Lodge, Reed Smoot and a lot of
the others came-in virtually unnoticed.
probably because a majority of the
oeiegates aid not know them hv sitrht
Chauncey !M.V Depew was surrounded
by a small group, Senator Penrose got
a reception from his Own delegation,
. Governor Whitman was recognized by
tunic, out on tne wnoie tne convention
was more interested in ' wondering
.what was going on in the auditorium
than it was in the arrival of the men
who hitherto have decided what the
convention should do with, itself. The
' hour for assembling was set for 11 o'
clock, but there was 'no. semblance of
order at that time and no one made
any pretense, of securing it The
delegates stood about the floor and
talked. The spectators overflowed in
to the spaces reserved for the dele
gates and hundreds of seals on the
Boor and In the galleries were empty.
Proceedings Opened With America.
' Finally Chairman Hilles brought
: flown the gavel wit hthree resounding
whacks and quiet settled down over
the big hall.
"The hou of 11 o'clock having ar
Hvedand a quorum being present"
aid he, "the convention will be in
' order. . Paraphrasing a remark bv
the late President McKinley . "this Is
a year whatever may have been true
of past years when politics is patri
otism ana patriotism is politics, there
. fore the audience will please rise and
slug- two -vertses of America.'' The
- band launched Into the airland led
- by a male- quartette the floor and gal
. leries joined in a mighty chorus that
' swept through the hi coliseum. -The
. tiev. John Timothy Stone, of Chicago,
reaa a prayer, . . .
.Senator Harding . Delivers Keynote
,, - ' " ' Speech- Vv
t Secretary - Eeyn61ds . then read the
call for the convention . which was
published last recember. It was only
a formality. None of the delegates
wanted to hear it, so they talked and
moved about while Mr. Reynolds kept
on. That over. Chairman Hilles pre
sented Senator Harding of Ohio, as
temporary chairman and put the
question. A rolling chorus of "ayes'
swept the - hall and former Senator
Crane, Senator Borah of Idaho and
former Representative TV. B,, McKm
ley were appointed a committee to
escort Mr. Hariling to the platform.
Th Idaho delegation announced that
Senator Borah was unavoidably ah
imer- pi :r. """is "1 r. McKinley
!; ' -.-is
and the temporary chairman' recog
nlized in .rapid succession , speakers
from the floor who offered the custom
ary resolutions for perfecting' the tem
porary organization. '
': Adjournments "Until Thursday.
That was quickly - over with ' the
meeting places of the committees were
announced and at 1.25 o'clock the" con
vention "was declared adjourned until
11 o'clock tomorrow morning. .The
delegates filed out into the driving
rain, where they found one thousand
automobiles furnished by .Mayor
Thompson's ' reception committee,
waiting for them. The committeemen
assembled in hotels and the resolu
tions committee returned later to the
coliseum to give a public hearing to
anyone who wanted to suggest planks
in the platform. The first .day's work
was quickly over and comparatively
quietly . with 'every one talking about
the placid, matter of fact way things
had started. -: ' .V';. --.. v - ; : 1 "
stock exchange He was forced to re
sign in. 1901 and since then., the po
lice say, he has conducted several
swindles on a large, scale. In 1911 he
was arrested in California in connec
tion with a Panama land grant swin
die. . He forfeited his bail and event
ually came to New York, starting op
eratlons under the name of John H.
Putnam & Co. - . -
DISCOVERER OF DIPHTHERIA
. . .. . SERUM RETIRES
ori 1'au;: Fulls
To Tho Germans
BERLIN CLAIMS THE GARRISON
HAS SURRENDERED
RUSSIAN GAINS GO ON
Desperate Fighting in Belgium, Where
Germans Take British Trenches
Turks and Russians in Asia Minor
Struggling on a 31 Mile Front Aus
trian Fail to Dislodge Italians. . v
Ml
iil!iu3 EG
Socni
Choico
Certain
West Point's class for 1918 will be
graduated on June 13.
id
. Ohio's June crop report places the
condition oi wneat ax 68.
B. Riot!
In Llexici
ROOSEVELT ' HAS APPARENTLY
LOST VETO POWER i
MAY. NAME HIM EARLY no wUL
Finished dyestuffs valued at $380,612
were exported from New York in
.April. . .-
James J. Hill the railroad builder,
left an estate of $10,000,000. Hill left
PROTEST AGAINST PROSPECTIV
INTERVENTION
STONE FOREIGN CLU1
Fort "Vaux, lying some five miles
northeast of Verdun, which for weeks
The Hughes Boom Has Grown to Such I laneoua purposes.
- Proportions a Nomination on Second
: Ballot Would Not- be Surprising
Bargaining Between Rival Parties
Has Ceased. ,. -
The Bank of England, released 300.-
000 pounds In sovereigns for zniscel-
Greece formally protested to the Al
lies against the declaration of martial
law at Salonlki.
Rettrmg directors war re-elected at
the annual meeting of - the Reading
Co. in Philadelphia.
Demonstration-Not Aimed at America
Citizens, But Rather Against Unit
States Policy Troops Restore Ordi
Consulate Signs Snatched Froi
Building. " ,
: Chicago, June 7. More political
past the French had been stubbornly I of Justice Charles Evans Hughes to-? j uear fMna f lata.
aeienomg against lernno onsiaugnts night than at any time since the re
publican national convention began to
assemoie.-
8even San Dominican revolutionists
were killed - In a clash with marines
by the -Germans, has at last fallen in
to-the hands of the Teutons, accord
ing to Berlin.- The men who defended
the fortress to the last -surrendered
to the Germans who also captured a
large number of guns, machine guns
and mine throwers. ;
Paris, however, says the fort was
still In SEYench hands early Wednesday
morning but since then it had been
impossible to communicate with the
fort owing to the violence of the bom
Russians Have Taken 41,000 Prisoners
Chlnuahua City, June 7. An antl
American riot. Incited ty a mass meet
ing to protest against the continue
Wiihelmshaven, the German naval I n tnitm , v
Thv rfpfiara that imin base, has been closed to the public for I mohi hJ j
the accumulation of over whelming I tho mst - months. - . j stration had been made against til
circumstantial evidence fails to reflect! " - -. I American consulate and stones hurla
the situation in Its true light, the nom. I Director of the Kennecott Copper I at the foreign club. In the belief thf
mation oi tne justice win come even corporation aeciarea a quarterly dlv- l it was an American institution.
sooner than had been predicted. I idend oi $l.SU a share.
. The men who take this view are
practical politicians who do not make I The annual conference of sanitary
estimates unless they are based on I officers o fNew- York State opened at
"wui utuvasa ui niw umga.Lea. i Saratoga ' springs, . N. X.
Roosevelt Loses Veto Power. :
The situation is illustrated best byl Article of incorporation were filed
Iha -fa- that tnrt-eAinta ltTiiun fli Dnvpr T1: hv th Marlr 'M'ariiif nt.
uaiua oi cuumuerauiB uroporLiuiuj oy i Ujiricn tn Histia tho avoliahliitv I urlnar Co. canit&l tlO.000.000. ,
ainerent -candidates virtually have
ceased Indicating their belief that - a I Exports of merchandise from the
the Russians over the Teutonic al
lies; by the Turks over the Russians
and by the Germans over- the British
are recorded in the latest official an
nouncements from ; Petrograd, Con
stantinople and London. In the re
gion of Verdun violent" artillery -com
bats are in. progress. . The Russians
in their offensive movement have dis
lodged the Teutonic allies from forti
fied positions and brought their aggre
gate of men "Captured up to about 41,-
They have also taken 77 guns, 134
machine guns and 49 bomb throwers.
Among the men made prisoners are
eoo officers. . '.
- Turks Claim Big Victory,
As an effort to the Russian gains
Protest Against Intervention "
The meeting as a protest agalni
prospective American intervention a
well as against the presence of th
punitive force, was called for the Cen
tennial theare. The theatre prove
too small to contain the crowd and a
over flow meeting was held In th
Alameda near the American consulaf
There were various orators who mad
speeches of protest. The crow
majority of the delegates already have j Port of New York for the week ended J snatched the consulate signs ' whio
reached a decision to name- Justice I June 3 were valued at $51,285,406. .1 were later recovered by the police.
Hughes. Convention observers . find . . ' - - I After the trouble commenced Genet
it impossible not to be impressed by I : The annual election of officers of the I al Lopez arrived with troops and re
the confident predictions of these I New York Cotton Exchange, H. H. I Placed a strong guard around the con "i
leaders, who say that the HueheslRovce was re-elected Dresident. . I suiate. Ifle mob then threw stones s :
boom has now grown to such a formir I - . I the foreign club, breaking some of th
dable proportion that Cloriel Roose-I .Great Britain has appointed a com- I windows. T'he military dispersed th
velt no longer holds the veto power I mittee. Baron Rhondda, chairman, to I crowd ana placed a heavy guar
which until this afternoon had been I consider the coal trade of the war. I around the club. The few American
conceded to him as part of the pro- I J who remained in Chihuahua were na
gramme to bring the republican and I A stock dividend of 100 per cent, was I moiestea and no private house attack
progressive parties to accord. I declared "by the directors of the Law- I cd . : The demonstration was aimed, i
Four days of constant and persistent I rence Manufacturing Co.. of Lowell. I was asserted not so much again
effort to Jfring the two parties togeth-1 Mass. ., , . I American individuals as against th
er m which the personality of the! . i American government s policy or re
nominee was subordinated to harmony. I The twenty-third annual convention I taining troops in Mexico without, a
over the Teutonic allies, uonstantino- laned to bring the results desired, and I of the International Association of i tne rioters oeiieve. any apparent re?
pie asserts that in Asia Minor, in the I the trend from the outset was definite- I Chiefs of the Police opened at Newark, "on.
Kope Mountain district," the Russians I ly toward the nomination of Justice N.J. . I Roosevelt Received No Message.
have been driven eight kilometres Hughes. Had Colonel Roosevelt an- ' I t Ovster Bav June 7 Colonel T)m
eastward from positions extending I nounced during this period that he Mrs. Slizabeth Kline of Rootstown. I JL Y.JrL TV ? L .V-v-r!!
: WO Gt - otllTlC rt arl AO T TXrVl An oh A At. I .
ceived no message from Former S
He declined to discus
over 14 kilometres- suffering losses of I would not support the Justice the I O.. ' was stung to death when she at-
more than a thousand men killed or I leaders were prepared to turn to any j tempted to take honey from a beehive! ator Jackson.
wounded. The fighting in this imme
diate vicinity covers a front " of over
31 miles, with the Turks the aggres
sors and with the situation favorable
to them, according to Constantinople.
In addition to Mesopotamia the Turks
Edward L. Dobbins, first vice-pres
ident of the Mutual Benefit Life In
surance Co, of Newark, died of heart
i disease. ':' . . .
Prof. Von - Behring Also Developei
Tetanus Cure His Health is Now
Broken. , , ,. s',;
Berlin, June 7. It is announced that
Prof. Von Behring, famous throughout
the world as discoverer of the diphthe
ria serum, has resigned his position as
professor at the University- of Mar
burg and from the directorship of the
Temporary Officers Become Permanent I wfcicU was founded especially to give
AH the temporary officers oe- I him an opt-ortimity to carry on his
come permanent officers when the con
vention assembles tomorrow. That
makes Senator Harding of Ohio, per
manent chairman. , The motion to
make all the. temporary officers per
manent was carried without a dissent
ing vote in the committee on perma- I
nent organization. . i -
Chicago, June 7. The progressive
national convention opened in the au
ditorium today with a record-breaking
demonstration for Colonel Roose
velt..... .. . .
For one hour and thirty-three min
utes tho : delegates and spectators
roared, shouted, cheered and ap
plauded. They - sang the progressive
battle hymns, paraded the aisles and
over the stage, and howled down all
attempts to check them.
Demonstration Broke All Records. '
" The demonstration exceeded the
previous record for such affairs of
one hour and twenty-nine minutes es
tablished in the democratic convention
in Denver in ' 1908 in behalf of Wm.
Jennings IBryan which - had exteeded
by four minutes, the record made the
same year in the republican conven-
(Continued on Page Six)
scientific Snvesti'gations. It waJ in
this institute tliat he discovered and
worked out several years ago a serum
against tetanus or . lockjaw, which,
during the present war, . has enabled
the German medical . staff to combat
that dreaded disease with complete
success. He did : much of his early
work as the assistant of Prof, Robert
Koch, the discoverer of the tubercule
bacillus, and also thaf of sleeping
sickness, and it was owing to his work
at the Koch institute that Yon Behring
obtained 21 years ago bis professorship
at Martourg. His retirement is due to
broken health. . ; .-: '
one of the regular republican candi- I there.
dates. The colonel remained silent,
however, and because the managers of
other candidates had fostered the
Hughes' boom, for the purpose !of
eliminating- Roosevelt It erev nrnfli.
claim to have defeated and dispersed I giouslv and even a combination of the
tne tuasian wings wnicn were enaeav- I favorite , sons strength was powerless I Field Marsnal Von Hindenburg Is re-
oring to carry out an enveloping I to check it. The reason for this was I ported to ha'e been appointed to the
movement -against them near Khani- 1 that the- candidacy of no other remib- I command of the Austro-German forces
km, northeast of Bagdad, but-Petro-1 lican made any progress and delegates in Galicia. -,',. --,-.!:-;
grad asserts that- the Russians lere J pledged to favorite sons found no oth- I
er presidential possibility but Justice I ' Fire caused $400,000 damage at "Wil-
Hughes to whom they could turn their I mington, Del., when Lippincott's d
the question of his going -to Chicag
U.
S. -MEXICAN DIFFERENCES .
MAY BE ARB1TRATEC
have captured additional Turkish
sitions and put" to the sabre several
battalions or Turks.. ,- ,
Nip and Tuck in Flanders.
The Germans elsewhere - are still
strength. :
Hughes Leaders Confident.
Justice Hughes -thus naturally
partment store, the largest in the city,
was burned.
be-
fighting desperately in the vicinity of came the choice of virtually all dele-
Ypres, both sides using their artillery
in heavy bombardments and their in
fantry in occasional attacks,
In -an infantry attack against the
ruined village of Hooge, east of Ypres,
the Germans succeeded In capturing
the British front line trenches run
ning through the village, but all their
attacks elsewhere failed. -
, Reverses for the Austrians.
. The Austrians again have essayed
violent attacks against the Italians in
the upper Arisa Valley and northeast
of Asiago, but everywhere were re
pulsed. , In the latter sector the Ital
ians drove back the Austrians irr a
hand to hand conflict to the bottom of
the Campo Mulo valley.
RAIN SPOILS "JUNE WEEK" '
AT MILITARY ACADEMY.
Good
Shooting Done by the Cadet
.: Squads. ,
1
ROOSEVELT URGED TO
HASTEN TO CHICAGO.
Republican National Committeeman
Telegraphs Him for Harmony's I other.
Sake. ' ' ; . . ' 'v., .
West Point, N. Y, June 7. Rain
dampened the ardor of . the "June
week" visitors somewhat" today and
caused the cancellation of all the mili
tary exhibitions set for the afternoon.
Two squads of cadets participated in
a drill "witli coast defense guns in the
forenoon," doing some ' especially fine
shooting with the six inch rifles fired
at a floating target in the Hudson
3,000 yards distant. Twenty shots were
fired, every one of which was scored
as a "hit."i Cadet E. L. Ford of Con
necticut was in charge of one squad
and Cadet L. B. Meacham of Texas the
AUSTRIANS SUFFER
REVERSES
IN TYROL.
Artillery, Mining and Jnfantry Con
flicts on Italian Frontier.
gates instructed for others. They be
came eager to go to him as soon as
they could secure release from other
pledges. -The Hughes managers to
night reiterated their claim that he
will have about three hundred votes
cn the first ballot. 'Frank H. Hitch
cock, spokesman for. the Hughes fol-
.lowers, said, there would pe be no at
tempt to nominate the justice on the
first ballot and that it was their de
sire to have all the favorite sons del
egates deliver their complimentary
votes.- He believed, however, that
the second "ballot, with the release of
many delegates from their obligations
would swell the. Hughes vote to such
proportions that his nomination would
almost certainly be made on the third
ballot, -. -, -
May Nominate Justice on Second Bal-
- : " ' . .. lot. v;, '.
Many of the Hughes supporters
were even more optimistic and said
they thought that before the result of
Hearing on th Shredded Wheat case
will be held by the Federal Trade
Commission on June 21, probably at
Buffalo, N. Y.
Government Considering .Proposal t
Submit Relations to . Internationa
Commission.
Washington, June 7. A proposal h -General
Carranza' that--the Unite
States and the Mexico do facto gov
eminent submit the whole subject o
their relations to an International com,
mission Js being seriously considers
by the administration.
Such a proposal-- if It is made wil
serve as a reply to the Mexican no
demanding withdrawal of the Amerl
can troops,' and may contemplate ad
Striking employes of the ' Union h??n,ent many unsettled difference.
that for years have caused accumulat
ing embarrassment in the relations o
the two nations. Settlement by a com'
mission- is provided for expressly b;
the treaty of 1848, winch provides fur
ther that "should such & course toe pro
the I 0086,5 y either party, It shall be ac
ueaeu to oy tne omer, unless aeemei
by It altogether incompatible with thi
nature of. the difference or the cir
cumstances of the case."
. Meeting in Neutral Territory.
President "Wilson and General Cap
ranza would appoint an equal num
ber of commissioners under the plai
and ' the meeting probably would b
held somewhere outside the territor,
of both countriea There was no Indl
hollowing tne estatmsnment or tne l whom rests' the final word as h.
Station at Washington returned to,
work, having been awarded a slight in
crease in wages. - .r
Brazil's receipts are placed at $355,-
820,00 and expenses at $438,844,010 In
the 1917 budget presented to
Chamber of Deputies.
The Aetna Explosives Co. Is re
ported to be negotiating with one of
the Allies for a contract for 40,000,000
tons of smokeless powder. ' , :
Three bandits broke Into the Pros
pect Social Club at Cleveland, held up
a card game, and " escaped with the
"kitty", estimated at $5,000.
French censorship at SalonikI the
Greek government has suspended com-
Rome June 7 via London. 6.55 p. nx Urift would .rappaTenr arrdeYe! mUniUQ Macedon
Checks for the Austrians all along I j I : - , .
changes of votes to bring a nomination
o nthe second ballot.
The Hughes managers expect Arizo
na, second on the roll of states, to
yield to New York so Governor Whit
man may place ..Justice Hughes in
nomination
Alabama would yield to New York but
it developed the delegation was di-
whether the proposal shall be made
had yet reached a decision.
the line of their attack in the south
em Tyrol are reported today , by ths
war office. The important Conl Zug-
na position In the Adige valley is
still firmly held, while near .- - Campo
Mulo, northeast of Asiago, an Italian
counter-attack was notably successful.
The official statement follows:
The enemy on Monday evening re-
Announcement was made by the Se
cret Service of the appearance of a
new $10 counterfeit note, on the Fed
eral Reserve Bank of Dallas.
Three persons were killed and two
1 n 4 ...... 1 n. U nn TWnT,a A. T1a m. . a
1,2? lm? " t bound passenger train ; No. 15
was derailed near Cotton Utah.
CHINESE PRESIDENT'S DYING
WORDS WERE REGRETFUL
Yuan Shai Kai Deplored the Monarch.
ical Movement1 Oid Not Wish to Bi
Emperor, '
: Peking, China, June . T. The - last
words of President Yuan Shi Kai wen
an expression of regret for the mon.
Chicago, June 7. (Former Senator
Jackson of "Maryland, republican na
tional committeeman from that state,
tonight sent a telegram to Colonel
OBITUARY.
. James B. Wise.
Watertown, N. Y., June 7. James B.
Roosevelt at Oyster Bay urging him Wise, one of the most prominent man
to come to Chicago In the Interest of
neated his violent attacks, suouorted , "5 "lZ ff . . "4
, . " - . , i viaeu ueiween iwo or more canuiQates r u i , , , , i ui tAui cc5hjii ui 1511 ir ui? uivh'
lrJ?"JJ? l Und. having no candidate to offer! L JiSZ n??0 I chic movement which, he aald. hai
IJUoin.Hio ii. iuc tuv.. i -via. l nooo when th. .lot. nro- .o!1 I . . - .
Monte Spirt and along the camp Mulo "A T Iwere deposited at the New York As
ZSZ'tXt&tiZZl v No Progressive Favor, Wanted. fflce J. Morgan & Co.
-1 .... X. A TT..V.. . I - . . m .i n
losses to him, I Jius"a uuo uchubo bp- i uirectors or xne nercuies rowoer
"Yesterday along the wnole front 1 1"""1 lomsnv many inquiries co declared an extra aiviaena oi 13
harmony and announcing he would do
his utmost m case of an acceptance to
have Mr. Roosevelt given the privi
lege or tne convention noor.
Mr. Jackson's telegram read as fol
lows: -. . ,,
The national interest demands the
complete reunion of tfoe republican
ufacturers of northern New York and
for. eight years mayor of this city,
died this afternoon at Atlantic City,
where he had gone to benefit his health
Mr. Wise was 58 years old and a na
tive of Stamford, . Conn. ' . -
Cortelyou at the Convention.
Chicago, June 7. George 'B. 'Cortel-
party, which unhappily divided in 1912. 1 you, former member of a. Roosevelt
I believe this can be accomplished by
a more perfect understanding between
you ana tne republican convention now
assembled. I therefore most earnestly
urge you to come to Chicago immedi
ately, to address this convention and
to make common cause in our delibera
tions. If you will indicate your will
ingness to take this course, I will use
my utmost . endeavors to secure -for yoo
tne privileges oi tne convention floor."
CONN. MEN ON REPUBLICAN
; CONVENTION COMMITTEES,
Charles Hopkins Clark on Resolutions,
.. John T. King on Credentials.
Coliseum, . Chicago, June 7. Thn
membership of the various committees
includes the following, from - New
England:' ". ,.
Resolutions? Connecticut, ' Charles
Hopkins -Clark; amine, John A. Pears;
New Hampshire. George H.'.Mnser-
Rhode Island. H. F. LJppitt; Massachu.
setts, Henry Cabot Lodge; Vermont,
rneocore is. van.
Credentials: Connecticut. John T.
King; - "Massachusetts, Charles H. In
nes; Maine, C. J. Dunn; New Hamp
shire. -Merrill bnurtierc: Ktioeie island
E. H. Rath-bun; Vermont, C. W. Dailey.
Movements of Steamships..
Glasgow, June 6. Arrived, steamer
cabinet.' got into Chicago today. He
came straight to the republican con
vention and said alter adjournment
that he had not seen George W. Per
kins or any other of the progressive
leaders. - He ; talked with Colonel
Roosevelt before he left New York.
"I am here to render any assist
ance I can." was ail Mr. cortelyou
would say. "As a former chairman of
the republican national committee I
want to do anything I can.".
Mr. Cortelyou refused to comment
on candidates; but said he" hoped to
6ee harmony. -1
'Michigan 'Men for Hughes,
Chicago, June 7 Notwithstanding
they are under instructions to vote for
tienry J?oro, tne jaicniBau uciegaiea
came to the convention wearing
Hughes badges. Chairman Marx said
"We will cast our first ballots for
Ford, after .that we will decide what
to do." . Other members of the dele
gation were more outspoken. Some
openly advocated a. change of ballot
to iMr. Hughes prior to the announce
ment of the first vote. . ..
- Justice Hughes Not Worrying. ' -;
Washington. - June .7. Justice
Hughes remained secluded at his home
on Sixteenth street today, writing
ooinions to be delivered in the su
preme court bench Monday, the last
decision dav until next fall. Ho had
no callers and his only "diversion was
an automobile ride in the evening
from the Adige to the Brenta artillery I were made of those who are supposed I per cent in addition to the regular
actiftns occurred. Enemy-attempts to lo pean ior mm as to wnetner nis i quarterly dividend oi Z per cent.
attack m the direction or 'com csug- I "-vtP"" " uiiui,
na, in the Adige valley, and against I would "be In any sense contingent up
Ten United States soldiers were
our positions southeast of vAsiago were j on a third party nomination by the J killed and nine wounded in a battle
promptly repeated Dy me. - i viubhom?.- - juiotvci mi
"On the Carnia and Jsonzo '-' fronts I 4 h a contingency would in no wise
fhere Vina tipcn an intense nyrhanfn of I e taken in consideration by Mr.
bombs and mining warfare, and infan- J Hughes. It seems very certain that
DECISIONS BY REPUBLICAN
- CREDENTIAL'S COMMITTEE.
District of Columbia Has No Repre
sentation." .-:
with Mexican ' raiders near Glen
Springs, in the Big Bend of Texas. .
One thousand new cars have been
nnrchased by the International . &
will again nominate Colonel Roosevelt I Great Northern Railroad . from 1 the
as their chief standard bearer "sTnd it is I Mount Vernon Car Manufacturing Go.
not likely tnat Governor Hiram jonn
son also will be drafted, so that their I Lieut. Commander Chosuke, Japan
ticket will be on in 1912. Rosevelt and I ese naval observer on the British bat
Johnson. : .. ' I tie cruiser Queen Mary, was lost when
sVio nnk In the Jutland naval enrnuce-
5.000 SUFFRAGETTES PARADE ment.
brought disaster to China, and ha
hastened his end. Calling Hsu Bhih
Chang, the former premier, to his bed.
side. Yuan Shi Kai whispered: "S. dW
not wish this end. I did not aspire t
be-emperor. "Those around me said th-
people desired a sovereign and had
named me for the throne. I believed
and was mistaken."
Flags are at half mast and PeTdnf
newspapers appeared today wit
mourning' borders. : They eulogize
Yuan Shi Kai - as . one of China' i
greatest men. Even - the opposition
press commends his career up to th
point at which he undertook the mom
archfcal movement.
Chicago. . June 7. Three contesting
delegations fro mthe District of Co
lumbia, which were denied seats in the
republican convention by the national
committee at a hearing last week, were
unable to ofotain a reversal of that ver-
diet by -the oommittea. on credentials
tonight and the district will "oe with
out representation in tne convention.
After counsel for each of the contest
ants had spoken for five minutes the
decision of- the national committee
was sustained by a vote of 23 to 20...
Nat. Com. Decisions Upheld.
The District of Columbia cases were
the last in a list involving 84 seats
considered. . Decisions of the national
committee were sustained in all but
two congressional districts the Ninth
of Alabama and the Fifth of Oklahoma,
in which three votes in the convention
were involved. In the Oklahoma re
versal two .McGraw delegates , were
seated over the Harris delegates, who
had teen placed upon the temporary
roll. Georgia retains nve wugnes aeie
gates out of a delegation of 17. After
four of the protests from this state had
been heard the remainder were with
drawn.
The committee was organized with
the election of Senator ' Reed Smoot
ever W. Y. Morgan of Kansas as chair
Jti HEAVY STORM
Threa thousand employes of the car
Votes For Women Advocates Walk department of the American Car &
Two Miles at Chicago.
-During a heavy ase.
ld west wind, 6 - Extr- ,m
workers, were-granted a 25 per cent
Chicago, June - 7,
storm, driven by a cold
000 women todav marched in the pa
rade of the National Equal Suffrage
association giving an unprecedented
demonstration of loyalty to the cause
for which they are fighting-women's
votes.
Led by a platoon of police and ac
companied ty several bands the wo
men marched two miles through the
down . town business district to - the
coliseum to present their arguments
for the ballot to the republicans.
Notwithstanding the
Extra police) were needed to contorl
the crowds that surged about the of
fices of the SergeCant-at-Arms Stone
at the Coliseum in Chicago, trying to
get convention tickets.-:
i Balfour Eulogizes Kitchener.
London, June 7, 6.1-0 p. m. Speaking
at a luncheon of the British imperial
council of commerce today, A. j. Bal
four, 'first lord of the admiralty, eulo
gized. Earl Kitchener, who. he said.
n, I to the allies was the embodiment ol
iUtWllUOUlUUlIK u...i.u,.....- I - - ,
conditions of the weather, thousands tne 'f " ,
Turiv,io - iinnin-irnrrl I haps the greatest triumph of Kitchen
X.'ZirZ'JXZl re-r-';3 er. Me. Mr. Baltour said, was his
, .i thv I successful effort to create a vast mill-
battled aeainst the wind and rain, tary machine, which was now prepared
Wit nil r.rti,.ir,antH attired in bright I to do Its .snare in tne muitary Tinder
colors, carrying banners and umbrel
las, the parade presented an unusual
spectacle.: A few: of the women de
fled the elements the extent the ex
tent that they carried no umbrellas.
taking of the allies.
es.
i- irf-j, an.j it was ii torewtor,''. officers of the association.--.-
. -i , .im .-in i ii i' . i m i .I- J ii ,i - - -
.Trial of Will Orpet Begins.
Waukegan, EL, J-une 1. Selection of
a jury to try Will H. Orpet on the
The paraders disbanded at the doors I charge of murdering Marion Lambert,
of thR Coliseum and thronged the I his sweetheart, was completed today,
building, cheering and applauding the David R- Joslyn of the prosecution, (be
gan tne oyymug siae-meat tt e jury.
BRITISH ADMIRALTY LORD SAYS
GERMAN DREAM HAS VANISHED
No Possibility of an Invasion of Eng
: land Now, Says Balfour, ; :
London, June 7. 6.10 p. m. One rei
trait of the Is'orth sea battle of lasi
week is that for many months H wil!
be rmpossfble for the Gertnans to att
tempt naval movements which thej
mighit have tinder taken before the bat,
tie was fought, eaid A. J, iiallour, first
lord of the admiralty, in an addresf
which he delivered today,
In his speech, made before th
British imperial council of commerce.
Mr. 'Balfour eaid it was impossible a
the present to so into details of tfa
battle, as he had no connected view o
the whole action from any authentic
source. British losses had been a.t4
accurately, while no 'value ceuld b
placed on the German reports, v. pcica
Mr. Balfour declared were tainted from
tne nrst.
As a result of the battle, Sdr, Balfou
declared, the German dream f an int
vasion oi x.nxtana naa -ooen tusBitnueii;
and as regarded the blockade and pn-i
trol of the seas, the position, of'th
Germans waa worse,
General Strike at Mexican Port,
Progreso, Mex., June 7 (Wireless ta
Key West). A eeneraj strike has been
declared at Progreso on account ef tha
repudiation of Carranza money. Ex,
ports of sisal are delayed, i'ooi
ecarco. ,
