f--
vol. xxvn
BOONE WATAUGA COUNTY, THURSDAY JUNE 8, 1916.
NO. 42.
111 1iL Jk. . A. .' 1
h
Our Nut legislature -Help to Secure It. J
Hrst Prayer ii Congress. Flies and Sick Babies. Homicide at Granite Fills,
Kewi and Obierver, "The relation of flies and filth Last Sunday morning about
It is interesting to us a mis to sick babies has been proven to 11:30 o'clock, Ed Shell shot and
day to look oacK upon nrsc e- be almost that of cause and ef- instantly killed James Helton at
vents that occurred in the orga- feet," says a recent bulletin of the the former's home in Granite
niiation of our government, and state Board of Health.. "Only Falls
to note the peculiar ideas enter- artificial feeding is as much a There were no witnesses to th6
tained by our founders and the causes of baby sickness as flies tragedy, as Shell's family and
odd incidents that developed in an)i flitn As authority for this most of the neighbors were at
our building. Today our sess- significant statement as concerns tending church at the time. It
ions of Congress are opened by the baby's health and the pres- appears from Shell's story of the
prayer, wnen tne nrst congress ence 0f flies and filth in the home, affair, that the two had amisun.
met in Philadelphia in 1774, the Board gives here an account derstanding about some whiskey,
Thomas Cushing made a motion 0f a recent investigation conduc- Helton coming to Shell's house
that before the first session a qi- ted by the health department in and accusing him of stealing his
Tine blessing should be asked New York City for the purpose of liquor. Shell was lying on the
upon their work. In those days determining just these relations, bed asleep when Helton aroused
there was more bigotry than at wa desired to determine hira. making accusations and
present and this proposition was whether the House fly is the chief threatening to kill him with the
nnnOMBu Dv tJOUU 'Jay Ul kkh I nnrnor nf rimrrhnon nr whothar tmia onii ai inb uhinh ha hurl in I
York and Mr. Kutledge of South dirt in the home and artificial his hands. Shell says that he ,U?T 'by, Public can'iers and the
Carolina. feeriino- am mora fantUv fncfora nrdororl TTnltnn nnt. nf l.ia hnnao I lcWJ1f U4 tuo oaum'
. The reason these men assigned n thi8 serious condition. The ca- but he refused to go, and kept
for their objection was tnac tne igeg investigated were divided making advances and threaten
body was constituted of bpisco- caretully into a fly-protected ing to kill him. Shell alleges that
pauans, yuaicers, AnaDapusxa, group and a fly-exposed group, to protect himself he was forced
Presbyterians and Congregation- These croups were made as simi- to use his shot gun and emptied
alists, and that it would not be iaP a8 it was possible to in a k e the contents into the chest of his
possible for them to all join in them. The infants were visited assailant, causing instant death.
the same act of worship. every five days by nurses. The Shell at once notified Police-
Thereupon Mr. Samuel Adams fly-exposed cases received all the man Payne at Granite Falls of
arose and said that he was no instruction given in child hygiene what he had done, and the officer
bigot, and, could hear a prayer work, but no special emphasis brought him to Lenoir Sunday
from any good man of piety and waa 0D eliminating the house afternoon and placed him in jail.
virtue who was at the same time fly in the protected group the Helton and Shell were brothers
a friend to his country, lie said greatest emphasis was laid on in-law, and lived about two miles
he was a stranger in Philadel- the absolute protection of the apart. According to reports.
phia, but that he had heard that baby as far as possible from con- they were good friends up to this
the Rev. Jacob Duche deserved tact with flies. For th6 infant in time. Shell is 41 years old and
that character, and therefore he the cradle, in the go-cart, on the has a wife and six children; Hel
moved that the reverend gentle- bed and even in the arms the con- ton was about 32 years of age,
man, an Episcopal clergyman be Btant U8e of netting were distrib- and leaves a wife and four chil
requested to read a prayer beiore uted among the protected fami- dren. Lenoir Topic.
Congress. lies.
This motion was seconded, and a8 a result it was found that
John Randolph, the president of almost twice (1.9) as many in
Congress, waited upon Mr. Duche fant8 were ottacked by diarrhea
and secured his consent to per- among fly-exposed as among the
form the service. Accoringly be fly.protected infants. Apart from
appeared In his pontiflcials and tne influence of flies, it was found
read several prayers in tne es- that almost twiceas many infants
tablished form, and then read tne were attacked by diarrhea in dir.
ty homes than in clean homes,
The most important factor for
child mortality, however, was
found to be artificial feeding,
Nearly two and a half (2.4) times
as many infants were attacked
FOLEY GVTHAKHC TABLETS
&KS Sumach Sweet -Liver Active -Bowels Regular
The B ordof Trustees of the An-ti-Saloon
Leage, at their meet
ing on February 24, 1916, fixed
our legislative policy for the next
General Assembly. The legisla
tion proposed is as follows:
1. To prohibit clubs and other
public places from storing or
keeping liquor for beverage pur
poses. 2. To prohibit the ad ver Using
of liquor in any way, even to the
sale ot paper that do advertise
it.
3. To prohibit the sale, or man
ufacture for sale, of wine and
hard cider.
4. To prohibit the delivery of
5. To make it unlawful f o r
anyone to have in possession for
any purpose, more than one-half
gallon of spirituous liquor.
6. To provide for the seizure
and the confiscation of any prop
erty automobile, wagon, or any
thing else used in translating li
quor for illegal purposes.
Now that the policy of our or
ganization has been declared, it
remains with the workers to get
busy and carry it into effect. The
legislation asked for is in keeping
with the various temperance re
ports and resolutions that have
been passed, iu the last twelve
months, by the churches in their
annual gatherings and, therefore
it is confidently expected that
the church folk will line up sol-
idly behind the Anti-Saloon
League in working for this legislation.
The one thing needful to se
cure this legislation is the elect
ion to the next General Assembly
of members who will vote for it;
and it is up to the prohibitionists
of every county and senatorial
district to see to the election of
such men. The State primaries
will be held in June, and every
candidate for nomination should,
as soon as he announces his can
didacy, be interrogated to know
if he will support our legislat
ion, and our influence should be
given to the candidate, or candi
dates, who will be support it.
A little work now will go a long
way toward enacting this legis
lationatthe next General Ass
embly, but if we neglect it until
men who are opposed to such
legislation are nominated ' and
elected to the General assembly,
we shall not be able to carry out
our legislative campaign and
for our failure we can blame our
selves only. Let me urge you to
get busy.
thirty-fifth psalm.
After this Mr Duche, unexpec
tedly to everybody, began an ex
temporary prayer, which is said
to have filled the bosom of every
one present. "I must confess,"
JlS
3 RINGS 1
t 1
STAGES
PR OFESSIONA L
. Glenn Salmons,
Kesident Dentist
BOONE, N. C.
Office at Critcher Hotel.
OFFICE HOURS:
9:00 to 13 a. ni; 1:00 to 4:00 p, m.
Dr. G. M. Peavler,
Treati Dimaeei of the
Eye, Ear Nose and Throat
BRISTOL. TENN.,
1 15 '14 ly,
T. . Bingham, ,
Lawyer
BOONE, N.C
Prompt attention given to
all matters of a legal nature
Collections a specialty.
Office with Solicitor F. A. Liu
ney
JL UCTCCOi IU LUC 11, I -
report further savs: wy' Pd
"We request the citizens of the
State in every voting precinct to
call upon their candidates for the
General Assemblv to declare
themselves on this question, and
we urge the Christian voters to
see to it that such members of
the General Assembly are elected
as will stand for this measure.
"We instruct our Superintend
ent to so organize the State and
John Adams wrote, I never bv diarrhea among the artificial-
heard abetter prayer pronounced iy fe(j a8 among the breast-fed in-
Episcopalian as he is, Dr. tooper fant8. The influence of flies and
himself never prayed with such djrt combined was found to be
fervor, such ardor, such correct- almost exactly equal to that of
ness and pathos, and in language artificial feeding, even in reason-
so elegant and sublime, forAmer- &hy good surroundings. Almost
ica, forUongress, lortne province two and ahalf (2.4) times as ma-
of the Massacnusett cay, espec- ny fiy-exposed infants in dirty
tally the town of Boston. It has homes were attacked by diar-
had an excellent effect upon ev- rhoea as were fly-protected in-
erybody here. fani s in clean homes. The combi-
The scene during the religious nation of dirt and artificial feed- j
part of the opening of our first ing made life extremely difficult
Congress, iB said to have been uor the infant" State Health
most striking. Washington was Bulletin.
kneeling, as was Patrick Henry,
and John Randolph, and Rut-
ledge, and Lee and John Jay.
And by their side mere stood, ,ain. Tablet for indigestion for
bowed in reverence, the Puritan the past hix months, anditaf-
Pnfrfntn nf New Endand. who at fords me pleasure to say I haver
it. .na Q.nn ? ha. uxe l a remedy that did me so
r:r j, ,;r;; good.''-Mrs. c e miey, n.
iyiuttiouo..uCunv-. v., ion N.Y. Chamberlain's Tab-
waisting. their humble nouse- ete are obtainable everywhere,
holds.
At the time it was believed that Time is money to everybody
Boston had been bombarded and buc the loafer.
destroyed. "It was enough,"
wrote Mr. Adams, "to melt a
heart of stone. I saw the tears
gush into the eyes of old grave
pacific Quakers of Philadelphia."
This prayer made sucn a pro
found impression that Messrs.
jci Cushing and Ward were deputed
to convey tne tnanns oi tne uju-
'I
To the Public.
have been using Chamber-
0VERlDPltlC,5URPMSlNG:&E-i
CLIPSINCfALL OTHER TENTED
EXHIBITIONS.-
TWENT1ETH.AN
NUAL TOUR,
Silas M. Greene,
JEWELER
Mabel, M. C.
All kinds of repair work
done under a positive guar
antee. When in need of any
thing in my line give me a
call and get honest work at
bonest prices.
Watcb Rpairino A Specialty
: rrr. r" e VETERINARY SURGERY.
hv tha novt. runi a aoamKi lhave been Pttttln ucl -tody
I t 11 l !1 i . I . a . a I - '
uex, ujo proniDitionists OI tne va- diploma, and am now well qalppad
nous counties get together in for the praotlw of Veterinary 8ar
this matter and in keeping with ery ,n iU branohee, and am th
rhft siifrrost nn nf iha nnal ou'y one in ae ooumy. all on or
Trustees, ' elect to the General
Assembly men that will pass the
legislation above outlined, the
passage of which will be a death
blow to John Barleycorn. The
nAti-Saloon League expects you
to do your part. R. L. Davis
Superintendent, Raleigh, N. C.
1
How to Get Rid of a Colli.
Read how C E Summers, Hoi-
dredge, Neb., got rid of hi cold
"1 contracted a severe cough ami
cold and rould hardly sleep. By
using Foley's Honey and Tar as
directed my cough was entirely
cured and I give it full credit tori
luv Boeedy recovery." roley's hi-
wave soothes and heals. Chil
to convey
gress to Mr. Duche, "for the ex- dren love it. M B Blackburn
mj iit.ii i iiirnvm im i.uuiuunjK u km
v .. r:"C'": struccle which he designated "a
delivered on me occasiou. . . r
On July 9, 1776; Mr Duch was
LntiLflchanlainof Con- he left this country and went to
a .a ,w mnnfr,- England, where he made a rep-
TT ZL, "VT. utation a8 an eloquent preacher.
rr.1",:: In the meantime his estate had
1 : been confiscated, and be was de.
JTZZZZCZZ' dared a traitor. He returned
SJfavor thh writingaletter
to Waelungton ta aoanaon tMi"''" u w
!
O ? -MA 1
' m . mm
RACING CAMELS
TRAINED ZEBliAS
R1DIHC SEA LWNS
How to Feel Good Tomorrow,
Indigestion quickly develops
sick Deau acne, Miiousness, bloat
ing, sour stomach, gas on stum'
ach, bad breath or some of the
other conditions caused by clog
ged or irregular bowels, ji you
have any ot these symptoms,
take a Foley Cathartic Triblet
this evening and you will leel bet,
ter in the morning. M. B. Black
burn.
ddree me at Vila, N. . R. P. D.l .
Q. H. HAYES,
Veterinary Sturgeon.
J-17-'ll.
E. S. COFFEK,
-,4 TiQRhEl Al LA R',
LiJONE, N.C.
rrompt attention givpn to
all matters of a legal r.tnurf.
'Abstracting titles aud
oiiwtion ot claims a nvecihl
ll'll
L. D.LOWE
Burner Elk, N. C.
T. A. LOVK,
PlowU, M. C.
Coney Island is in the near fu
ture to have a $ 1,000,000 trol
ley terminal.
SlLVTRTONtfRIO
FLYING F1SHER5F
5T.J0HN rArllLY
ELSIE DE MOT;
EQUESTRIEIINE
OTHER
FEATURES
50
IllULELORC STREET PARAGE
2. lXW-mi,
WILL EXHIBIT AT
BOONE,
'FR)ATlJJl"E9li01i.,"
Making the Most of June,
To enic y the beautiful month
of June to the utmost, one muBt
be in good health. Kidneyn fail'
ing to work properly cause ache
and pains, rheumatism, lumha
sio, soreness, st iH.ieps. Foley Kid
ney Pills make kidneys actiyr
aud healthy and banish suffering
mid misery. Wby uot feel fine ami
tit? lie welll bestronir. M. 13
Blackburn.
Americans chew $35,000,000
of gum annually, and most of it
audibly.
Cut this Oat It U Worth Money
Don't Miss This. Cut out t hit-
slip, inclnHA with 5 cents toFole)
& Co., Chicago, 111., writing rout
name and add rent clearly. You
will reretv in return n trial pack
age containing Folevs' Honej
and Tar Compound lor bronchia1
ouch, colds and croup: Fole.
Kidney Tills, and Foley Cathar
tic tablets. Special comforting
to stout person.
LOWE & LOVE
ATTO RNE YS-AT-LA W.
Practice ta the courts of Avery
and surrounding counties. Care
ful attention given to miniiittm
of a legal nature.
7-6-12..
F. A. LINNEY.
-ATTORNEY AT LA W .-
BOONE, N. C.
Will practice in the courts of
the 13th Judicial District in all
matters of a civil nature.
1 8-11-1911.
K. P. Lovlll. W. R. LoVtl
Lovill & Lovill
Attorneys. At Law--BOONE,
N. C.
Special attention given to
all business entrusted to
their care. .. .
Dr. Nat. T.Dulaney
- SPECIALIST -
ITI, K4R-.50BK, THROAT ISO CBKIT
KTKS BXAKIirSO fon
flLASBBS .
FOURTH STREET
Bristol. Tenn.-Va. k
A long face gathers but few
real friends. , :,
EDTUND JONES, s
LAWYER
-LENOIR N.(V
' ff 111 Practice Remiy J
POLBY KI0HEVP1IIS ?&P"
4
I r
f.
