A C- JAMES J. MONTAGUE
DAMON RUNYON
-the greatest writers of the DATN AUNYONL
country are watching every ELTING . POWLER
move in the big convention PWAI FRANK WARD O'MALLEY
and reporting It s -* few others of the foremost
writers or the day covering the
In The Herald - A>'. '''''''''''"'H''
IN THE HERALD
NO. 3520. _WEATHER--PARTLY CLOUDY. WASHINGTON, D. C.. THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1916. ONE CENT.
FORT VAUX IN
GERMAN HANDS,
BERLIN CLAIMS
Paris Admits Communication
Has Been Cut Since Yes
terday Morning.
FATE STILL IN DOUBTI
Teutons Say Stronghold Was
Captured During Fight
Tuesday Night.
ALL PARTS TAKEN IS REPORT
Violence of Bombardment Prevents
French Capital from Getting
News of Conflict.
Special Cable to The Washington Herald.
London. June 7.-Fort Vaux. the key to
the stronghold of Verdun. about which
German and' French troops have been
battling for months, has been captured
by the Kaiser's forces, according to an
official statement issued tonight In Ber
lin.
The War Ofice at Paris tonight ad
mitted that all com munication with Fort
Vaux had been lost since 3:,0 o'clock this
morning, when the fort was still in the
hands of the French. The bombardment
has been so intense that it has been im
possible to establish communication. The
fate of the fortress consequently is In
doubt.
The Berlin official statement read:
"Fort Vaux. in all its parts. has been
In our hands since last night."
French Isase Statement.
The midnight communique issued at
Paris said: To the left of the Mieuse
great artillery activity Is reported in the
region of Hill 304.
"To the right of the Meuse the boin
bardment continues very violent against
our first and second lines frorp the Dou
aumont region to Damloup.
"The Germns announced today that
Fort Vaux fell into their hands during
the evening of June .
On June 7. at 3 o'clock in the morning
Fort Vaux was still In our hands; from
that time on. due to the violence of the
bombardment, we have not been able to
establish any communication with the
fort.'
Kitchener's Death
Arouses Britain
3inn Feiners Accused of Tell-!
ing Germans of Hamp
shire's Trip.
(By the San News Service.)
London. June 7.-The British public to
lay is angered as never before against
:he Germans. The cry of "spies. all
spies!" is sounded throughout the em
pire and whoever bears a German name,
does well to stay indoors.
In comparison to the present flare-up,
the riots and raids on German stores and
dwellings, would look like picnics. Even
the thousands who*have relatives, by In
termarriages, in Germany, are subject to
the ominous pointed finger, meaning
"Spy"
The event which let loose this hatred
is the death of Lord Kitchener.
The belief is that the dead war secre
tary's plan to go to Russia was "tipped
off." by some mysterious agent and that
a U-boat was promptly sent out to "get"
the cruiser.
It is evident that nothing wilt con
vince the British public that the death
of England's "man of the hour" was not
the result of a carefuly laid plot. The
authorities are silent on this subject.
Scotland Yard Is silent, but Scotlana
Yard is busy as never before. It will
'delve to the roots" of the mystery.
Moreover, Scotland Yard thinks it is on
the right trail. What that trail is. can
e stated in the words: "Sinn Fein."
GOVERNOR IN LLAD,
Florida May Send Trammel to the
Senate.
Tampa, Fla., June 7.-Incomplete re
turns from yeaterday's Democratic pri
maries show Governor Park Trammell in,
the lead for the senatorial nomination,
wIth P. G. Wall. Senator N, P. Bryan
and former Gov ernor Albert W. Gil
christ following In the Order named. S.
? 3, Catts, L. L. Farris and W. V. Knott
appear to be running close for the gover
norship.
Vice President Marshall and Governor
Elliott W. Major, of Missouri. appear to
be almost even In the contest for
Florida's choice for the nominatio'n for
tice PresIdent, and the three contests
for Representatives in Conresag also
are in doubt.
Body of Kitchener Aid Found.
London. June 7.-The body of CoL. 0. A.
Fitzgerald. military secretary to Lord
Kitchener, who was drowned with Lord
iltchener, has been recovered, according
to a dispatch to the Express.
Corrmm Ofdcas Arrested.
El Paso. Tea.. June 7-The Carransa
offcers attached to the garrison at Juares
were arrested here this atronas1
sems bw the local poilo.
MEXICAN MOB ATTACKS U. S.
CONSULATE IN CHIHUAHUA;
FOREIGN CLUB IS WRECKED
(Uy Internattoal News Servlee.)
Chihuahua, June 7.-A mob of several thousand persons attacked
the American consulate tonight, tore down the official consulate shield
over the door and shattered all the windows.
Gen. Lopez rushed a detachment of troops to the consulate and
drove the infuriated mob away from the building.
The crowd then swarmed toward the Foreign Club. All sorts of
missiles were hurled through the windows. The doors were broken down
and attempts made to burn the building.
A score of engineers, including several Americans, who had taken
refuge in the Foreign Club, escaped by making their way ever the roofs.
They were pursued by the mob and their homes stoned.
The city has been placed under martial law by Gen. Jacinto Trevino.
Trevino told an immense gathering in the opera house tonight that
unless the American government immediately withdrew its soldiers from
Mexico the de facto government would call all Mexicans to arms.
"We Want Teddy," Shouted
For Hour and 36 Minutes
At Progressive Convention
(By swu New, Service.)
Chicago, June 7.-The Progressives shouted "We want Teddy" for an
hour and thirty-six minutes, and that was the start of their convention.
Of course, this isn't all they said or did in the second longest splurge on
record that exploded with the naming of their ideal by Temporary Chairman
Raymond Robins. They marched and stamped, and sang and danced around
the Goddess of Liberty; they romped through every antic known to the old
prompt book of convention "demonstratigns," and invented several lines for a
new one.
It was a wonderfully p tuiquesho.. --
md even though prearranzed and stage- a by ;oernr Johnson. of Cal
nanaged. It was essentially spontaneous. rnia, Ocar Straus. Of New York. Colo
Shout "We Want Teddy." f neloJohn M. Parker. of Louisiana and
And the gist Of it all. the message u To , H-' Martin. of Minnestota. Back
'om the Auditorium to the RepubleIansanear the bacs the flag of California
Lt the Coliseum by the fire-tried band waved for ths governor. Small flags
which today revived the "Onward Chris- were tossing everywhere and the big ones
lan Soldiers" fervor of 1912, was, "Wu Ialong the walls of the theater and over
want Teddy-Teddy." In fact one of thelthe stage rustled as cheers beat against
,anmers most riotously approved pro-!them.
:iaimed that the Progressives were goingi Victor Murdock Introduced Mr. Robins.
o re-elect W Ison unless the Colonel was i"embers of the cow'Yention. of the na
lominated. ttial Progressive party, and Christian
The demonstration for Roosevelt hy the "o di, s." he said. Delegates started sing
AM00 In the Auditorium broke the endur- Ing the old gopet hNn. The band join
Lnce record set by the Democratic con- ed In. Ftagu ;ere thrown again.
'ention at Denver in 13t. when the m .ere in Illinois, where God gmne Lip
Ion of Bryan's name by the temporary
!hairman was followed by a hullabaloo 11- of the sorrows of a generation in his
hat lasted one hour and fifteen minutes. - h leder tried and true and
By keeping it up that long the Demo- honest. and I Introduce to you the tempo
:rats beat the demonstration at the Re-i.iy cha~rman Of this convention, Ray.
ublican 1908 convention which lasted ex-iniond P.obns"
Lctly forty-nine minutes after Senator, Deonutration Starts.
-odge, the temporary chairman, mention. Mr. Robins has a god strong voice,
-d the Colonel's name and there began ut when the delegates saw that he was
;he organized attempt to stampede the going to read his speech. they sank
onventlon for Roosevelt as against Taft. back listlerely. About thirty seconds
11s gavel mildly. later they came to life with a big bang
Called to Order. I % Robins had pronounced the name
At 11:,5 Victor Murdock called the con- of "the worlds foremost citizen- In the
ention to order. There waas prayer by first para of his keynote address.
31shp Wllim FazerMc~wel ' henThe convention came to Its feet with a
Bishop William Frazer 3McDowell. then
wosorm of shouting, stamping, applause
wo tanas f "merca7 sun byand whistles, and waving of flags and
uverybody and well suing, too. The con- banners.
ention was photographed by flashiight. The hairruans platform was rushed
Fecretary Davis read tne convention call. by etusiasts and Robins and Victor
dr. Robins. who halls from Chicago, was Murdock, national chairman, gave up ai
lected temporary chairman and escorted i CONrINUEDi oN PAGE T't',0.
Shop Girls Plan to March
In Preparedness Pageant
Washington'a army o f shopglto The participation of the girls in the
will take part in the big preparedness parade has been made Possible by
)arade that Is to pass up I'ennrlvania the determination of the leading busl
Lvenue next Wednesday. ness men of the city to close their
Hundreds of girls-the same girls establishments on the day of the Pag
hat six days a week stand behind eant.
wace and ribbon counters-will give Firms With Close.
whole day of their time to add their Business will come almost to a dead
nt to the tremendous sentiment in te a and o
:t sotage utreday. heer beatagans
avor of a cgreater army and navy tile of the business world both em
"or the adequate protection of the
nountry from foreign Invasion. i ployers and emplayes, will lend their
aid in furthering the Propaganda for
The"e girls-many of them poor,
' national defense.
nany of them in extremely moderate mn i th he a
In the re- pounced their intention Of closing for
eall clerks' unit of the pageant and will Sons
Onsttute one of the human interest e a o o
'enters of the processiont CONhINiED ON PAE FOUR a
The Wasbigton Herad Wilbin eiv
Donaion FoPrpardessnPtrade Fturtd
Here s nopporunit for 3ourt aid in an asgotong pre
parenes parde t'ne14 he bgget a hen thet dpeteguarte swtated way
Fillouttheblan beow nd ak ito ePepy.Aednes Etry Teod
Washngtn Heald togthe wit ator cteyiamtio aine wth doaigobn
illbe cknwleged nd orwrde proptl o Radoponouedthenam
ofreasureroofd'sefoomosttteeizenchargeh
offirst.para.raph.of.h.s.k.ynote.addres.
enos $'.''. t ahlpdefwhistle, eansevin of lgn
WThe chairman'sppeatformewasprushe.
byetuissad oisadVco
U rdckitinlcaragvupa
lected.temporary.cha.rman.and.escorted.....TIN.ED..N.PAGE.T..
PARTY LEA]
COLONEL.1
-TO FORE!
D. C. DELEGATES BARRED
FROM CONVENTION FLOOR
Special to The Washington Herald.
Chicago, June 7.-By a vote of 23 to _o the credentials committee to
night indorsed the recommendation of the national committee that seats
be granted to none of the delegates from the District of Columbia.
The credentials committee was so shocked by the report of the na
tional committee regarding alleged fraud and intimidation on the part of
the three contesting factions that it decided it wsold be unwise to eat
any of the delegates.
The committee announced it would sit throughout the night to dispose
of all the contests.
The Hitchcock forces acquired tAo more delegates in Oklahoma by
the action of the committee in seating John V. lHadley and Charles Moore,
of the Sixth Oklahoma district, and in unn.ating 0. A. Mitscher and A. D.
Wood, whose names had been placed on the temporary r'll.
Hughes Picked as Winner
By G. 0. P. Leaders at End
Of First Convention Day
By E. A. FOWLER.
lb.. News service.)
Chicago. June 7.-Charles Evans Hughes will be nominated for Pres
dent by the Republican convention unless present i.dications are completel
upset.
Leaders of the Republican party who are familiar with every deta
of the situation, and who are slow to make predictions, asserted tonight fc
the first time that Mr. Hughes would be named by the Republican conventiol
They added that nothing could prevent his selection. Several of them insiste
he would be named by the third ballot, and possibly on the second roll cal
The Progressive convestiou. on the-other hand, ite o godforwap
with iti plan of nominating Col. Roosevelt. probably by Friday at the intes
Hinges on Colonel.
Colonel Roosevelt's afittude toward much campaign The record-treaklg demostr;
a nomination, or toward Justice Hughes tion at the Progresai'e convention t.
as the Republican nominee, is still a daY, in faor of the (olonel, was part
matter of doubt. The entire situation so due to this plan.
far as the prospects of the Republican Imists T. R. Cannot % in.
party for viotory are concerned, now re- Important factors in the Republica
volves abotft. Colonel Roosevelt. If he situation. insist, however, that M
accepts the Progressive nomination and Roosevelt cannot obtain the Republi
refuses to support the Republican nom- can nomination, and this assertion
Inee. all hope of Republican success born out by the general expression <
against President Wilson will have dis- sentiment that has cone from t
appeared. delegates since they arrived in Chi
So far as can be ascertained, Colonel cago.
Roosevelt has not taken any of the Pro- There is no attempt on the part <
gressive or Republican leaders into his the Republican leaders to gloss ove
confidence as to what his course will be. the fact that Col. Roosevelt holds th
Colonel Roosevelt is not yet convinced he fate of the Republican party in 1t
cannot obtain the nomination from the hollow of his hand, but they are o
Republica convention, and he Is prepared considering the possihility of tryin
to play his cards up to the very last to save the party through acceptin
hand. him as the nominee.
Mr. Roosevelt and his followers are en- Two opinions prevail here in regar
gaged now in a final effort to force tha to Mr. Roosevelt's attitude toward th
Colonel upon the Republican convention Progressive nomination. Several of h
by playing on the fear of another third close friends insist he does not war
party ticket, and a repetition of the 1912 CONTIN'ED ON PAGE THIEE.
Judge Denounces Methods
Employed by "Vice Squad'
Detective Mason L. Howes. of the police "As ofeier is not to play the par
vice squad, on trial for unlawful entry of a 'peeplag Tom.' He is not to us
of a private dwelling, was acquitted yea- keys and ladders t. force an entry.
terday by Judge Mullowny, of the Police Judge Mulloway declared.
Court. Praise from Pullman.
The opinion of acquittal by Judge Mul
lowny clearly defined the bounds of po- once gave him a key with which to ent
lice operations in respect of their entry a home. Lieut. "Johnny' Catts. chief
of private homes. This definition was in i the vice squad and Howes. both testiie
direct opposition to the methods alleged the police superintendent laughed ar
to have been sanctioned by Maj. Pullman, a;,I 'good work" when they told hit
superintendent of police,
auferntenent f poice.of climbing up a ladder into -, houst
"It In the duty of the pollee to they having brought the ladder some di
swear out a warrant before they enter
a home to make arrests for vlee"Mu
he said. wney's conclusion that the Kenne
Three policemen testified during Howes' home was not a "private' home.
trial that aa. Pullman told them "to T mere fact that Mrs. Kennett, th
enter any way you cah." CONTINU. ON PAG SE eN.
(DytheIatraaioai ewsSerlee I yth e sqtuaand Hows boh esiel
New ork Jue 2-Anthe Brtis o th erplicevi superedent Jauged r-T
of mre tan 2~i.. sai tobe teabdgoo w ork' pa en they chtld ti
ed boe toay thoughJ, P.Morgn he hain brouhe e adde tosomeld
Compny nd therbaners Themony uaniet forth puroiige. nw w
borrwedon cll s tobe sed o pyc edi was acqitted.O ontw SudgeiMu
ormuntios prchse inthi contr.lcstngey banlions tagnt theKen
homewainotbe"pivae"eome
tria tha Ma. Pulmantol the D"t "helimerfct mitht ofs finncet, t)
enterany way yusia."ihpobbywl 'COTINUED ON PGE warEvFedu
amount FL0OATS asisBRTISH c $3,000,ro 0Jan ,ry0t WAR 116 wee.ppo
ofByhehenormousaquantityeof Ieuiiit.o
Newtvle Yor. JJune 7.-or menitesh hat a enpoie ocryot
injure tdyhan explo,00sin atob the i
sonerunnt. ofStil Lare, one, wr ake float-ffnsve
tod hose ta. throughgtJ.LP. Morgane and
CompaltimnreotnerOhio.eruneThe toney
borrowe ton ciadlli to2b.use to ph. ay i o eunuti 6h ovne
fo u itton ucased inethcurn atiry, e iheaa qimn;e
c.:retuybaris herea.Juo1,70a.tialcoldadibe. saeL
BelvleN'.1 un .Fu me wer
ERS CALL
70CHICAGO
3TALL SPLIT
STAMPEDE OF MOOSE
FEARED UNLESS T. R.
PUTS ON CHECK REIN
W ith Republicans Standing Solidly Behind
Hughes, Only Chance for Harmony Ap
pears to Rest with Roosevelt.
THIRD TICKET TALK RAMPANT
Old Guard Leaders Fearful of Repetition of Action of 191 2
Unless Progressive Chief Can Be Placated.
Inducements Are Offered.
Chicago, June 8 (Thursday).-The telegram to Col. Roosevelt
urging him to hasten here to bring about "the complete reunion of the
Republican party" was sent by Col. William P. Jackson, national com
mitteeman for Maryland, with the approval of Republican leaders. A
copy of the message was given out early this morning.
- B The %1akingtm Heraid's pecil (orre ( pondent.
Chicago, June 7.-Theodore Roosevelt stands out tonight as the
dominating figure in the political chaos of the Republican and Pro
gressive conventions.
It is conceded that Roosevelt-and Fr osevelt only-can prevent
a split in the Republican party, and it was stated on good authority
tonight that the Bull Moose chief had been called to Chicago to pre
Ovent further breaches.
Notwithstanding the pleas for harmony made by Senator Warren
G. Harding in his keynote speech at the G. 0. P. convention today.
there was little of harmony in the air tonight. and the chances for the
launching of a third party and repetition of the bitter fight of four
years ago loomed larger than at any time since the Colonel appeared
in the guise of a candidate.
PROGRESSIVES URGE COLONEL.
The Progressives are determined that Theodore Roosevelt shall
be their standard-bearer, and the radicals already are announcing theaq
a third party fight is inevitable.
IThe Republicans are equally determined to have Justice Hughes
as the party nominee, and it is believed they intend forcing his nomi
nation, taking the chance that Roosevelt will refuse to head an opposi
tion party.
It was the inability of leaders to reconcile these two determina
tions that caused the call to be sent to Oyster Bay for the Colonel
himself to come here and exert his influence to still the troubled
t waters.
So-called Old Guard leaders are declared to be willing to allow
Roosevelt to dominate the entire convention if he will consent to keep
out of the race and restrain his followers from nominating him on a
p Progressive ticket, or in the event he is unable to do so, to refuse the
nommation.
ROOT MAY BE COMPROMISE.
George W. Perkins, chairman of the National Progressive Com
- mittee, refused tonight to confirm the report that the Colonel had con
sented to start immediately for Chicago. He admitted that the Colonel
d had been urged to make the trip by leading Progressives and Re
r publicans.
That Justice Hughes can have the nomination at the hands of
the Republican party there is not -the slightest doubt. The only ques
tion is whether he can have it without causing a split with the Pro
gressives that may put Wilson back in the White House for another
term.
In the face of Roosevelt's unalterable opposition-so reported
from a number of reliable sources-to the jurist, there was talk to
night of a compromise candidate being named who would meet with
the approval of the Colonel. In this connection the name of Elk
Root was mentioned as the one most likely to retzv the stamp of
the Colonel's .approva'). _________
ePLATFORM REPORT YUAN SI KAM'S SON
TO BE READ TODAY TAKES HIS OWN LUFE
r (fly the Internetemmi News Serv1C 3ets.) ew eaie
S Chicago, June 7.-Here is tomorrow's Vkn.Jn .Teie~sn
Republican convention program;: rsdn unSiklcmi~e
s 10 a. rn-Report of committee on cre- siietdy i ahrde etrs
a dentials.Thothooceagamntrd
-10:15 a. rn-Perfecting of permanent or- ti onn oPeietL unHwg
ganization. Election of Warren G. Har-whwa cepeietuerteua
Sden as permanent chairman and of per-rem.
manent offiere.
10:30 a. m.-Report of committee en rs
e olutiona. Reading of pialform. ~ WieApasfo etue
1 p. mn. (probabiy)-Recess.NeYo.Jue-otc ofaea
I p. m.--Discussion of piatform and Its fo h et e~eo rp~do r
adoption. hr a~Waefote ndrf
t 34.20l--BT. I.ouus a EUCTUN-.3.s f hriiiwwsle oj
ia ('as 10 Oh 3 y. ickekts on sailea~s.
L~lun. 0 to 13 Offic, 33'ekinw., Juneb1 7.--Th Doet aroe n
sucdetda.Hs ahe.id etedy
Th/ah o ofc a a mnsee
