(IsSiSiS
f-f - i - v-
,
night
EXTRA
i.VM;.n.-NO. 230
'FINANCIAL EDITION
lcimtma
ffiefcjer
NIGHT
EXTRA
1
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, JinSUD 8, 1910.
CorimanT, 1010, at mi Fctaio Lkdoek Coummt.
PJRIOD OltfIB GENT
ENOUGH OF "PLAYING HORSE";
CONCILIATION ON REPUBLICAN
BASIS ONLY, LEADERS INSIST
.Radicals Control Progressive Convention
I and Asserts That Roosevelt Realizes
I Its StrengthBull Mooose Con
cede Hughes Has the Lead
i y
fOscar S. Straus and His Followers, It Is Believed, Will
&' , 1 ml. d L i J1. T....J. . Tl'll
' ixirow rneir oupporb 10 tne justice ai uuii
Moose Delegates Fail to Put
Colonel Over
COLISEUM, CHICAGO, Juno 8.
11:23 Temporary Chairman Harding called convention to order.
11:27 Chairman Harding called for the report of the Credentials Commit-
tee. Senator Smoot read the report.
11:35 Convention adopted tlic credentials Committee report.
11:36 Convention adopted the report of the permanent Organization Com
mittee, naming Harding permanent' chairman.
11:37 Convention applauded and cheered Harding.
11:39 Harding cheering in progress three minutes and growing in volume.
11:12 Chairman Harding makes brief speech thanking the convention.
11:43 Committee on Rules and Order of Business nsks for more time,
and the band plays.
12:20 Convention adopts the report of the Committee on Rules and Order
Of Business.
12:22 Chairman Harding called on Chaunccy M. Dcpew for a speech.
12T:55 Harding introduces "Uncle Joe" Cannon. Tremendous cheering.
1:11 Uncle Joe finished.
1:12 Chairman Harding introduced Senator William E. Borah., of Idaho.
1:30 Delegate Parsons, of New York, moved to recess until 4 p. m.
1:33 Motion to recess adopted.
'ALFALFA BILL' MURRAY
RAPS HUGHES IN HOUSE
BECAUSE OF CANDIDACY
COLISEUM, CHICAGO, June 8. Justice "Charles Evans Hughes will be
'nominated by the Republican National Convention probably tomorrow, unless
George von L. Meyer, William Loeb,- Jr., and the Roosevelt Republicans can
ogreo on a Republican who can come with the support of Roosevelt. This was
decided on today at n conference of the Republican leaders, who are in absolute
control of the convention.
They decided that thero had been enough of "playing horse" with the Pro-
gressivo convention 'delegates. The radical element controls " that convention,
and it -was made very plain that Colonel Roosevelt himself realizes this.
The Republican leaders are convinced that Colonel Roosevelt will not be a
candidate on the Progressive ticket when the voters go to the polls next Novem
ber. On what they base this they will not say.
WAIT FOR SMOKE TO CLEAR AWAY.
But it is known that men of the calibre of Oscar S. Straus, who was the
candidate of the Moose for Governor of New York four years ago, havo made
' Justice Hughes their' second choice and will support him if they cannot put
Roosevelt across in the Republican convention. It will not be surprising if the
ktnen best known in the Progressive movement jire xound lined up in the Hughes
camp alter the smoKo ot battle clears away.
There was no disguising the hopefulness of the men in control of the Repub
lican convention today. They havo discounted any action that tho Progressive
convention may take, so fnr as nominations are concerned. The spirit of concilia
tion Is present, but it is a spirit of conciliation on a Republican basis only.
BULL MOOSE LEADERS LESS AGGRESSIVE.
The Progressive party leaders were less aggressive today than yesterday.
(They concede that they cannot prevent tho nomination of Colonel Roosevelt
by their own party. And they concede that Justice Charles E. Hughes now
has the lead as the Republican standard-bearer. But they declared they felt
certain that if tho Republican leaders would "bo reasonable" they would bo
fable to offer a solution before any action taken becomes so settled as to prevent
harmonious co-operation.
As a matter of fact, despite all that is being said about Roosevelt's plans
sto run when the Moose call comes, tho men who are managing the fight for
fhim declare positively that ho is not anxious to bo tho candidate even of a
reunited party unless ho can feel assured of the support of tho Old Guard
leaders and their followers.
CREDHNTIAI.S COMMITTEE BUSY.
The Republican convention had enough
real work on Its hands to get through the
:day without apparent, effort and at tho
same time permit the leaders to stay out
of (heir seats and keep up their seeking of
solution that will satisfy all hands.
The Credentials Committee had upheld
the Old Guard's temporary roll. The Organ-
Station Committee had to. make the tern
iorary organization permanent. And there
was In reserve all of the old timers ot tne
Dartr. the men who have fought Its battle
on the stump Blnce the days of Abraham
Lincoln, ready and anxious to let loose a
'flood ot oratory that might start the long
missing enthusiasm.
FALL READY FOR SPEECH.
f (senator Foil Plans a speech which will
demand that the party accept Roosevelt,
and he will have all the acaossorles to
make his demand spectacular and noose
veltlan in character,
. The dark horse supporters were viewing
the; situation today with great glee. They
felt hopeful. The names of many men, were
being bandied about by them. Were Sen.
Mor Borah, of Idaho, a resident of a State
that commanded. real presentation In the
convention and In the electoral college, he
would have a Bplendid chance to land trie
plum. Although his name Is not to be pre.
tented to the Republican convention jmless
mere is a change in the situation, nis
friends have sounded out the Progressive
leaders. They have been toid that so far as
Borah is concerned, he would be "much
lesa objectionable to the Progressiva party"
than Would Justice Huehes. But that Is as
I far as things have gone.
Senator, Lodge, of Massachusetts, was
another man who was in a receptive mood.
And the followers of General Leonard Wood
bad managed to get up confidence sufficient
19 open headquarters and start their boom.
w going,
HOW SITUATION STANDS.
Birring a peace agreement, the situation
w far as It confronted the delegates to the
Republican convention today was this:
tnatton of Justice Hushes at the time
H" on, whether It is the first or tli
LThfl TTtlD-ViAM man vultt ! ,- T..nlA
-- v- rr & Lira wuovi'4
Pft 500 Diuthe first ballot. Then they
I!" wait tq give the signal, to their re-.
Ptrvep at an agreed upon moment. The
ptrorjta- sons, are entirely eleminated, al
wough the plan to get out their "best
gettfth on the first ballot at least la to
uusrea io.
fc i. "o,-.-m hmj yu&lHM Bill Wii3
E, They held In reserve an us.
EHS. O'nount f oratory with which they
IP "! t the time required to make it
imf tb9 dleate 'hat they are in a
Ei,i ., "i"1 " "" sanle luae prevent
Eu5 ,X.j3i0(r prua vpon them.
27X t. -"mub tne party leaders.
- mw BssuHea py von u, .Meyer, uertel-
u, Airuiour na Diners, were tjsing
BOSS OF THE BULL MOOSE
'snUmuA ea gas, lfw8t C4ktm DM
Oklahoma Man Assails Justice
for Permitting His Name to
Remain on List of
Possibilities
SEES BLOW TO COURT
WASHINGTON. June 8.
The fact that Justice Hughes has per
mitted his name to be used as a possible
presidential nominee without protest was
attacked In tho House today by Representa
tive Murray, of Oklahoma, Murray quoted
James Bryce, declaring that when the judi
ciary of America becomes corrupt "the
nation Is In Its last stage of decadence,"
"True enough," Representative Murray
said, "Mr, Justice Hughes has been remark
ably and commendably quiet until the eve
of the Republican National Convention,
when he took occasion to pronounce a eulogy
of the American flag which would have been
passed unnoticed at any other time, but his
friends immediately pronounced it a 'key
note speech for the natlqn's and f a man's
real character and motives cannot be ascer
tained from the statement and Judgment
of his friends, to whom can we look for the
truth -of his purpose and motives? I do
not wish to be understood now as Inveighing
against his nomination nor to consider the
wisdom of electing Mr. Justice Hughes to
the presidency. I will agree that, should
he receive the nomination, the contest be
tween him and the Democratic nominee,
Woodrow Wilson, would be like pitting
classic Roman against classic Greek, The
acme of literary taste in American politics
wpuld certainly be realized in the campaign
speeches of the two contestants in their use
of pure diction, rhetoric and classic
learning.
"But such nomination, to say the least,
brings to our mind the fear that such a
course would be too often attempted.
"Suppose our years hence an agitation
Is started to nominate Justice Louis D,
Brandela. does any one douot the spasms,
into which certain Interests would be
thrown? Every man who opposed his con
firmation by the Senate would, immediately
begin to cry that It meant the dragging
f the- judiciary into the political mure, and
it -yvould la true.
"&!
1
, .! n" o u v..avmw ..a , . .rt..l.,v,'iwtwwwhw,M. yawwwWftviWv..M.Mfc'AwU.aii il ., j
GeorRo "V. Perkins, financial angel of the Progressive party, and per
sonally conducting Roosevelt's campaign in Chicago. He is at the head
of a handful of Progressives who aro spending the afternoon conferring
with a handful of G. O. P.-crs in an effort to bring about harmony out
of tho political din and discord now besieging tho convention city.
RUSSIANS OPEN
DRIVE OF ALLIES
ONFALL EJtom
General Attack Sweeps Aus-
trians' Lines in Bukowina
and Volhynia
40,900 TEUTON CAPTIVES
Indications multiply that the much'
heralded "drive" vof the Allies on all
fronts is about to begin. Cable dis
patches and private advices have fore
cast this long-delayed development of
the great war, and June has been men
tioned frequently as the time.
It has been said, apparently with
nuthority, that the Russian would open
the ball with a general attack along
tho East front. Tho beginnings of
that movement are reported in today s
dispatches, which show sweeping suc
cesses for tho Russian arms in
Bukowina.
That the Germans have had fore
knowledge of tho intentions of their
enemies is probable, and it is equally
likely that tho recent increased ef
forts of the Central Powers on all
fronts is merely tho Teuton method of
meeting and checking such a drive.
PETROGRAD. June 8 Russian troops,
In their offensive on a front of more than
250 miles, from le Prlpet marshes to the
Rumanian border, nave captured up to
Tuesday noon 40,900 .prisoners, according
to the official announcement issued yes
terday. Of these captives, 900 are officers.
In addition the Russians captured 77 can
non, 13 machine guns, 4.9 trench mortars
and much field paraphernalia.
Only meagre details of this new cam
paign of the Czar's forces under command
ot General Bruslloft are given In the of
ficial communication. But that the Rus
sians did not escape lightly In their
charges is shown by the reference to entire
battalions carrying their objective after all
their officers had fallen.
The offensive Is being directed by Crar
Nicholas, but the active commander In the
field (s General Brusllpff, the new leader
TWO WARSHIPS
ADDED TO GERMAN
JSEAJIGHT LOSSES
Berlin Admits Sinking
Ltitzow and Rostock,
London Says
of
REPORT SEYDLITZ LOST
Continued on 1'aee Ifour, Column Tno
PJSRKINS PREDICTS HARMONY
AFTER TALKING TO OLD GUARD
Progressive Leader Says Progress Is
Being Made in Conference
CHICAGO, June 8. Qforge W. Perkins,
In an informal statement this morning, In
dicated that he hoped for peace between
Progressives and Republicans as a result
of a series of informal conferences now
in progress.
"These Informal conferences," Mr. Per
kins said, "are probably as effective as any
formal conferences would be. it Is use
less to say much about them at this time,
because we get to a certain point and then
something comes up to halt negotiations
for- a time. There are ten or a doien can
didates to be considered, but I think we are
making progress," v
Sam Wythe's story of the Na.
tional Republican Convention Js
printed on Page'6,
LONDON, June 8.
It Ifi admitted by the German Admiralty
that tho battle cruiser Lutzow, 28,000 tons,
and tho cruiser Rostock. 1900 tons, sank
irom alien damage received In the battle
with tho English fleet off Jutland, accord
ing to the following Central News dls.
patch, dated Berlin, received here today:
"For military reasons the loss of the bat
tle cruiser Lutzow nnd tho cruiser Ro3tock
has not Vet been made known to tho public,
although It Is known In official circles that
both sank while proceeding to their harbor
for repairs."
The Gorman battle cruiser Seydlltz sank
off tho coast of Denmark while being towed
toward her base by destroyers and torpedo
boats, according to a dispatch from Copen
hagen to tho Star today,
BHRLIN, June 8.
In the final daylight phabe of the sen
fight off Jutland tho British fleet was su
perior to the German fleet in numbers, ac
cording to a semiofficial statement today.
"Besides numerous light fighting forces,"
the statement says, "at least 25 or 26 Eng
lish battle cruisers and four English, arm
ored cruisers were in action against 1G Ger
man dreadnoughts, fhe German battl
crilsers, six older German battleships nnd
no armored German cruisers."
The loss of 11 warships In the battle with
the British oft Jutland Is now admitted by
the Admiralty. They are one battle cruiser,
one ship of the lino of older construction,
four smalt cruisers and five torpedoboats.
Sixty-two first-line ships were engaged
on both sides, it is stated, not counting light
cruisers," torpedoboats, destroyers and submarines.
SCHOONER AGROUND;
CREW OF 19 SAVED
Coast Guard Does Valiant Work
in" Bringing1 Shipwrecked
Sailors Ashore
Word was received from Sandy Hook to
day that the three-master Norwegian
schooner Artensls went aground off Seaside
Park. Her crew of nineteen men, com
manded by Captain R. G. Sodahl, were
taken off In the breeches buoy by volun
teers from the cottages near the beach.
Captain Martin McCarthy, keeper of the
coast guard station, ga,ve valuable aid In
the rescue work.
The volunteers had great difficulty In get
ting the crew ashqre, as high seas were run
ning. A"" lifeboat which was pressed Into
service capsized, twice between the shore
and the stranded hl, and several of the
rescuers were carried out by the undertow.
They were greatly exhausted when picked
up by the rescuers
A heavy mlft curtained the shore when
the ship was, pounded toward the beach.
Rockets fired from the schooner were seen
by John Shower, a cottager, who aroused
the others.
Chances of saving the schooner are good
unless a strong east wind prevents. Tne
revenue cutter Mohawk Is now on the way
t assist her off to deep wafer. The
Artensls is under charter ot the Standard
Oil Company to carry oil from New York
to Scotland.
The savjn? of the ship's crew is re
garded aa remarkable. In view of the. fact
that the regular coast guard crew at Sea
side Park, was laid off June J
MembsrsJuf the crew were cared far by
eoUage.JtNene was seriously Injured.
They lejtf9 New Tforls tola fterwon.
ir.
QUICK NEWS
REPUBLICANS ADJOURN UNTIL 4 O'CLOCK
COLISEUM, Glilcnrjo, Jtttto 8. TJic nenublicnn Nntloml Con
vention nt 1:33 voted to take a lcce&a until 4 p. ni. (0 o'clock Tli'la
dclphia time).
NEW YORK "L" TRAINS CRASH! 3 KILLED AND 30 HURT
NEW (Y6RK, June 8 Three poisons nie lepoited to have been
killed and 30 hint In a collision between two trains on tho 3 J nvenue
elevated mllwny nt 140th street today.
HUGHES TO REMAIN SILENT UNLESS NOMINATED
WASHINGTON, June 8. "Unless Justice Hughes Is nominiited
nt Chicago, he will mnke no stntement or announcement," the United
Pi ess learned this nfternoon from a source of unquestioned nuthority,
nftcr Justice Hughes liiul been shown a copy of a speech by Ilcpic
acntative Murray in which the latter declared "his (Hughes) remain
ing on the bench flitting with his supporteis like a gill waiting to
be kissed, Is reprehensible." The Justice's position, the United
Press was Informed, Is the "same as It has always been."
REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE BARS PROHIBITION PLANK
CHICAGO, June 8. The Resolutions Committee of the Republi
can National Convention lefused by an aye and nay vote to inco.po.atc
a prohibition plauk in the platfoim.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
'First race, 3-year-olds and up, Wardfolllng, SSOp added, Q fur
longs, main course Yankee Notions, 123, Davles, 3 to 5 and out, won;
pejrvlohjjfclSS, McGerraott, 7to 1, even nnd out,.second:-Schoolboy,
117, Hayneo, IS to 5,l to 3 and out,' th'htl. Time, 1:15.
BANKERS PREDICT THREE YEARS MORE OF WAR
N13W YORK, June 8. There Is a Rrowlngr feeling In high banking and financial
circles that tho end of tho European conflict Is not yet In sight. Bankers who are
In a position to know much regarding the foreign situation as a whole unhesitatingly
predict that the war will last for at least two or three years longer. ' The opinion
Is general that the conflict has progressed to a point virtually Impossible for tho
contestants to arrive at n settlement satisfactory to either tho Germans or the
Allies.
OGONTZ GARDEN PARTY TO BE HELD DESPITE WEATHER
The garden party on tho Ogontz School grounds for tho benefit of tho Ablngton
Memorial Hospital will be held today notwithstanding the Inclement weather. Tho
party was scheduled originally for yesterday, but the storm caused Its postpone
ment until "the first clear day." The affair will bo held on the big porches of the
school. Those In charge are Mrs. Cyrus II. K. Curtis, Mrs. John Grlbbol, Mrs.
George Horace I.orlmer, Mrs. Daniel B. Wentz, Mrs. W. Howaid Wilson, Mrs.
Charles Schwartz, Mrs. C. A. Walters, Miss Emma Hett, MrB. Marmnduko Tllden,
Jr., Mrs. J, Howard Ervlen, Mrs. Wharton Slnkler, Mrs, Herbert P. Robinson, Mrs.
George Kelly and Mrs. George W. Elklns, Jr.
FRENCH AND BULGARS FIGHT IN GREEK MACEDONIA
SALONICA, June 8. Violent engagements between French and Bulgarians have
occurred at the Kupa Hill, In Greek Macedonia. The Bulgarians withdrew. Jl
French aviator flew over the Bulgarian positions and dropped bombs as far aa
Istlp and Radovltza. The artillery and military material of the Greek forts east
of Fort Ruppel (which was recently occupied by the Bulgarians) have been re
moved by the Greeks. , ( t
ALLIED AIRMEN SHELL ANTWERP SUBURB
AMSTERDAM, June 8. Hoboken, a suburb of Antwerp, has been shelled by a
squadron of allied aeroplanes. There were immportant German military establish
ments there and many oil tanks. The Germans had established a shipbuilding works
and were constructing destroyers.
EVEN MONEY ON ROOSEVELT ON NEW YORK CURB
NEW YORK, June 8. New York followed the lead of the Chicago betting1 on
the result of the Chicago convention yesterday by accepting wageta at even money
that Roosevelt would get the G, O. P, nomination for the presidency, despite the
statements of his opponents-'that he is conducting a losing fight. Chester Thomp.
son, the betting commissioner on the curb market, reported one bet of 5000 at
ey-en money on T, R. against the field.
OFFICER WHO SHOT SKEFFINGTON CALLED INSANE
DUBLIN, June 8, At yesterday's session of the court-martial of Captain
Bowen-Colthurst, who la accused of manslaughter for having caused the execution
of F. Sheehy Skefflngton, editor of the Irish Citizen, physicians who had examined
the defendant testified be was mentally unstable. The court-martial closed late
yesterday afternoon. Decision was reserved.
ANTI-AMERICAN RIOT CHECKED IN CHIHUAHUA
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mexico, June 8. An qjitl-Amerlcan riot, Incited by a
mass-meeting to protest against the continued presence of American troops In
Mexican territory, was put down here yesterday by the military, after a demonstra
tion had been made against the American Consulate and stones hurled at the
Foreign Club In the belief that it was an American Institution.
STEAMSHIP FROSt THIS PORT GOES ASHORE
ST JOHN'S, N. F., June 8. Word was received last night that the Norwegian
steamship Sandeflord had gone ashore In Bt. Mary's Bay. The Sandef jord, a vessel
ut J?8 tons, arrived at Sydney, c. u., from Philadelphia, on May; H and sails
6V day later tor fW siina,,io woo uos ere.
'AMERICANISM
FIRST,' DEMAND
OF ROOSEVELT
Colonel Says German
Influence Seeks to Ter
rorize Republican
Convention
ASSAULTS WILSON
FOR FUTILE WORDS
Accuses President of Dull
ing National Conscience
and Using High-Sound- jj
ing Words to Offset M
Shabby Deeds fy
IMPORTANT DOCUMENT
Roosevelt Ready to Go to Chicago
When bid Guard Leaders
Invite Him to
Come
OYSTER BAY, Juno 8. Former Presi
dent Theodore Roosovelt will go to Chicago
and address tho Republican convention If
tho delegates request It Tho Colonel so
advised William B. Jackson, of Maryland,
one of the Republican delegates who sent a
personal invitation asking tho Colonel to
address tho, convention in the Interests of
harmony.
In his reply the Colonel referred to the
world crisis that exists at this time- and
made tho plea that the Republicans select
a man who "shall rise lovel to the crisis,"
or in other words keep America nt peace
and at tho samo time give her the proper
preparedness.
Speaking of President Wilson, the Colonel
declared "ho has rendered the people the
most evil service that can bo rendered to
a great democracy."
Colonel Roosovelt charged the President
with "dulling tho national conscience" and
"relaxing the spirit of lofty national motive
by teaching our people to accept high
sounding words as an offset and atonement
for shabby deeds."
The document, which was, Intended as a.
reply to the Jackson invitation, assumed the
proportions of a long statement and wft
'one of tho most; important political pro
nouncements of tho campaign.
Tho direct attack upon President Wilson
camo unexpectedly, although in recent
speeches tho Colonel has found fault with
the policies of tho Wilson Administration.
The Colonel attacked hyphenated citi
zens. He charged that even at this mo
ment persons of divided allegiance are try
ing to dictate to the Republican convention.
This was nn Indirect attack upon Jus
tice Hughes, for It has been said time after
tlm3 that his candidacy has been fostered
by German-American Interests.
Tho letter follows:
"In answer to your telegram I can only
say that the matter lies with the Republican
comentlon, and that 1f the convention de
sires mo to address it I shall be glad to
do so
"I very earnestly hope that the Repub
licans and Progressives assembled at Chi
cago will keep stcndlly In mind the gravity '
of this crisis, not only for America but
for the world and the need that their action
In dignity, foresight and patriotism shall
rlso level to the crisis. I hope that the
aim will not be merely to nominate a man
who can be elected next November, but a
man of such power, character, steadfast
conviction and proved ability, that if
elected he "111 again place tills nation
wUrre It belongs by making It true to lUtlf
nnd therefore true to all mankind.
WILSON'S WORDS FUTILC.
"President Wilson, however amiable his
Intentions, has Tendered to this people the
most evil service that can be rendered to a
great democracy by Its chosen leader, He
has dulled the national conscience and re
laxed the spring of lofty national motive by
teaching our people to accept high sounding
wordH aa the oD"et and atonement for limb
by Ueedn, and to uie word! which mean
nothing In order to draw oil meaning from
those wlilih have a meaning,
"It will be no easy task to rouse ths
austere self-respect which has been lulled
to slumber by those means. To this task
we should bend our united energies in the
spirit of Washington and Lincoln, the
spirit of genuine democratic leadership,
the spirit which sets the standard to which
the nation ought to rise, and then with
confident hope appeals to the soul of the
Continued on Pare Two, Column Setea
THE WEATHER
There Is no doubt about who would be
nominated for President at Chicago if the
farmers of Pennsylvania and New Jersey
and a few other States were the delegates
at the convention. With strawberries al
most bursting with red fulness, with green
corn leaping skyward, with tomatoes swell
ing and grass shooting into maturity as
hay, Juitice Hughes would continue his
silence unmolested. Teddy would wait In
vatn for 9 J minutes of riotous yelling,
Brumbaugh would cast about in vain for
a -vote and would be nothing more than
memory. Who, then, would be nominated
by acclaim? RootT No BorahT Ko,
Weeks? Knox? Cummins? No. Henry
Vord? No, no. Who then?
phe weather man.
FORECAST
For PAttadelpfcto and vieinitParU
ly cloudy tonight and Friday, mth, prob
ably occasional showers; not much
change in temperturti light vjuiahl
wind, 4
IOST AND TOUHD
.. - " ' " '
nod Ijost, on FrlJay, a ort 4t browm Usit
doi ltoerai ncu1iiwwuifasm
ppXWlNQS Lost la Uotlty tErTprfiJ
MSr7 Finder conuausleate fik Jtee J.
if UIU99 P""T
ftj&33&, r?JSt fflfffeJMWy
ME vr
xm?
mm
WfsMmL 1 1 TfiMlnBJFirT: ij j
Al
' 1
' 1
Ml ywtai ite m it
