3 DYING, 30 INJURED IN
CRASH;
i
SECOND AVENUE CAR TELESCOPED
WEATHER Showers Probable To.Nlght and Friday.
FINAL
EDITION
PRICE ONE CENT. 'IrWiKrir"'' NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1916.
500
10 TRAINS BOUND SOUTH
DASH INTO EACH OTHER
NORTH OF 149TH STET
Three Persons Known to Have Been
Killed and Thirty Passengers In
jured Two Telescoped Cars Take
Fire Doctors and Nurses Rushed
in Autos From Lebanon Hospital.
Three persons are mortally hurt and thirty others more or less in
Jxired as a result of a rear-end collision between trains of the Second Ave
nue and Third Avenue "L" lines at Westchester Avenue, north of One
Hundred and Forty-ninth Street, the Bronx, at 2AS o'clock this after
noon. The front car of the Third Avenue train was completely telescoped,
s was the rear car of the Second Avenue train. The wreckage immedi
ately took tire.
The Second Avenue (rain was southbound and had left the Preenian
Street division and turned into the Third Avenue tracks. As the train was
Upproaching the One Hundred and Forty-ninth Street station the motor
plan saw that another train was in the station and he brought his train
to a dead stop.
The next moment tiie Third
ipJIC ILUl iiiu Jl tilk iiuuvu mini
j The front car of the colliding
trhe stalled train up to its rear platform.
The danger of the third rail impeded the work of rescue, for it was
JuN titteen miiiute Ivtore the current
Immediate! alter the collision the airs began tn blaze and the half
i
( idemented passengers in the other cars piled out onto the tracks. Almost
very one in the two cars were injured.
Patrolman Uevm, who was near the accident, turned in both police
find tire alarms. He then went back
ie slipped from uiic of the wrecked cars to the tracks.
Calls were sent to Lebanon Hospital and a force of physicians and
Jfcurses were rushed to the scene ot the disaster in automobiles.
Shortly after the arrival of the physicians the body of the motorman
ff the Third Avenue train was taken out of the wreckage.
When the flro was beglnninK to burn briskly firemen reaoued from
the debris Max Oallsh ot No. 6 Oowrok Streot, a cigannaker, who wan a
yassenucr In the Third Avenue train. Tho flaraeM were within a few
Inchos of his face when firemen pulled him clear of tho splintered timbers.
Oallsh was terribly crushed and an ambulance aurgeon from the
Lincoln Hospital aald ho had little chance of recovory.
Policeman Thompson of the Tromont Station, assisted by flremun,
froacued Peter Plerson of No. 2023 Valentino Avenue, an L guard, who was
en tho Second Avonuo train. Plerson wns wedscd botwecn the floor of tho
car and tho bottom of the car which had telescoped it. His right hand was
all that protruded from the wreckage, and when Thompson discovered him
upon hearing his screams ho summoned firemen with crowbara. Plonon
was taken to the Lebanon Hospital in a dying condition. His eyebrows
and hair wero scorched by thn flames.
The Row Jamca Kessler of the Church of the Immaculate Conception,
which is at the scene of tho wreck, assisted the rescuers In attending to
the wounded.
Among tho.so taken to tho Lebanon Hospital are:
KKUUIOAN, FRANK, mntorman, 1314 Second Avenue.
(5 LUCK Hit. .MRS. L13NA, sixty-four lours old.
PAPP, LICON.
PLUNKETTS ORDERED
TO LEAVE DUBLIN
l0.s'IKN, June S. Count and
Countess I'lunkett, who worn ar
rested last month shortly after thn
uppresslon of tho Irish rebellion,
iwert released from custody lat Wed-
VOTES CLAIMED
Avenue train tollowing crashed into
train drove through the rear car of
was turned otf.
to the rescue and was injured wheni
ti. sd.ty and ordered to rap Dublin
Iv. next Hittunlu, according to n
(Yntrnl News despatch from Dublin
t.i.Ja.v
Tntee non.H of I'niint I'lunkett weio
linplliated in the Irish revolt. One of
them. Joseph, was executed anil
death saliences on tho two others,
tioorse and John, were commuted to
ton years' penal eervltude.
1 "Circulation Books Open to All." I
FORT VAUX FALLS
SEVEN-DAY BATTLE
French Still Hold Outskirts of
Stronghold, Paris War
Office Announces.
FOOD CUT OFF 5 DAYS.
Five Successive Massed Attacks
of Fresh German Troops
Win Ruins.
PARIS. June 8. The hombArded
Hholl of old Fort Vatix has finally
passed into the possession of tho Ger
mans after a heroic resistance, tn
which the troops holding out there
were cut off from food supplies for
Ave days and from all communication
for tho past twenty-four hours.
The French on withdrawing, how
ever, still held the trenches sweeping
nround the wr.stcrn and southern
slopes of the fortress.
The desperate defenso made by
Commandor Itaynal and the small
contingent left In the fort constitutes
one of the most notable Incidents of
the Verdun campaign. Tho fort had
been gradually pounded to pieces In a
tcrrllle seven-day bombardment while
Infantry rushes were repeatedly
launched In this period against tho
slopes of tho fort, Its ditches and
outworks.
Early yesterday morning Gen. Uny
nal'a forco waa cut oft from commu
nicating with the French trenches
lying only 300 yards to tho south.
Thn means of transporting provisions
and ihclls hud provlously been de
stroyed and tho htock of food In the
gnrrlnon wan exhausted.
In tho mean time the Hermans
brought up two fresh divisions and
hurled them forward In five micces
alva massed attacks which, in spite
of the fearful lo.'.ses caused by tho
F"renoh artillery, llnally resulted In
tho German. gaining the Inner de
fenses of the fort and sweeping over
Its exhausted defenders.
'o word has been received from
Gen. Itnynal since communication
wan first cut nnd nothing Is known of
his fate or that of his men
While the prolonged bombardments
have destroyed the usefulness of
Vaux as a fortification, yet Its pos
session Is importnnt as 1t is ono of
the dominating heights on which the
posting of artillery Is advantageous.
The French lines now embrace the
circle of Inner forts and trenches
lying south of Fort Vaux, the linn
constituting seml-cfrele of defensea
from five to six miles out.-drtn 0f
Verdun
The French War Ottlcn statement
of to-day, which chronicles the loss
of Fort Vaux, follows'
"In the Argonne district a German
mine exploded this morning at Hill
285, at Itauto Chevauchec, but with
out causing us any damage. We oc
cupied tho southern lip of tho crater
thereby created.
"On tho left bank of the Itlvrr
Meuse thero has been an Intermittent
bombardment or our econd-llno posi
tions. On the right bank of tho river
there has beon Intense artillery light
ing In tho glon of Thtaumont and
Douattmont.
"After seven days of ferocious fight
ing against assaulting force-i whoso
numbers wero constantly renewed, th
French garrison at Fort Vaux
reached tho limit of It strength and
was not able to prevent tho enemy
from orcupjlng this position, which
had been completely ruined by a furl,
oiw bombardment.
"We hold the Immediate surround-
(Continued on Fifth Pa.)
AT END OF FURIOUS
T.
NEW BID TO G. 0. P.
Colonel Says the President j
Condones Shabby Deeds
With Words.
WOULD GO TO CHICAGO
Declares Professional Germans
Arc Attempting to Terror
ize Republicans.
OYHTHlt HAY. N. V . June S. Col.
Roosevelt to-d.iy replied aji follows to
William P. Jackson of Maryland, who
Invited him to address tho National
Republican Convention:
"In answer to your telegram 1 can
only say that the matter Ilea wttjt the
Republican convention and thntif the
convention desires me to address It I
shall be glad to do so.
"I very earnestly hope that the Re
publicans nnd Progressives assembled
in Chicago will keep ute.ullly In mind
the gravity of this crisis, not only
for America but for the world, ami the
need that their action In dignity, foie.
eight and patriotism shall rite level
to tho crisis.
"I hope that the aim will be not
merely to nominate a man who can
be elected next November, but a man
of such power, charncter. steadfast
conviction and proved ability that If
elected he will again placo this na
tion where it belongs by making It
true to Itself and therefor" trim to all
mankind.
"President Wilson, however amiable
his intentions, has rendered to this
people tho most evil service that can
bo rendered to a great Deinnei-ai y by
Its ehoxen leader. He has did'eil the
national eoiiNeieueo and relaxed t ho
hprlng of lofty national inotlvo by
teaching our people, to uecept It I u Ii -wounding
words as the offset and
atonement for shabby deeds and to
use words which mean nothing In or
der tu draw all meaning ftmn those
which havo a meaning It will bo no
easy task to rouso thu nmti-ro h If
respeet which has bei n lulled to
slumber by thoso means
"To this task we shuuld band our
united energies in the spirit of Wash
ington and Lincoln, the spirit of gen
uine democratic leadership, fie spirit
which sets tho standard to which th
nutlon ought to rise, and then with
confident hopo of appeals to the .soul
of the people so that they may
In fact support the standard thus
raised.
"The differences that have divided,
not merely Republicans and Progres
stvos, but good Amcrhans of all
shades of political belief, from on
another In the past sink Int.) nothing
when compared with the issues nnw
demanding decision foi these. Issues
am vital to tho national life They
nre the Issues of a unified American
ism and of national preparedness.
"If we are not all of us Ameri
cana and nothino ole, teorninn to
divide alonn the lines of sec
tion, of creed or of national oriom,
then the nation itself will crumble
into dust. If we are not trior
ounhly prepared, if we have not
developed a strentjth which re
vpoets the rinhts of others but
which is also ready to enforce
from others respect for its own
ri(hts, then sooner or later we
shall have to submit to the will
of an alien eonciueror.
"Those q i in- are ii"' hi Un
realm of ib.str.nt thought The,
must be t.ikin out of tho world of
cloudy promise i ..u phrasing
into the world of performance and of
(Continued on Second Page.)
. AP WILSON
AND GERMANS IN
G. 0. P. SNARL OVER PLATFORM
HOLDS UP BALLOT FOR HUGHES
uAon timc to uni n iwinnct
IIHIU IIML IU IIULU ITIUUUL
1FR0M NOMINATING! R. AT ONCE
Progressives in Session With Straus and Others
Leaning Toward Hughes, but Rank
and File on Rampage.
fly Samuel M. Wltllamu,
Special Staff Corraapondant of Tha Evaninn World.
PROr.RIWSIVK PONVKNTION
Raymond Robins nntlnuert as Permanent Chairman, the Progrcsslvo con
vcntlon started Its second session this
between lenders on the platform and
Kach fought for contiol. The
clamored for an end tu all dcalH nnd dickers nnd waiting. They wnnt to
nominate the Colonel regardless of every other consideration and Jam him
down tho throats of the Republicans.
If Hughes Ih nominated by the Re-
publicans the Progri'sslvn Convention
will be plunged Into dissension.
Straus. Ilotrhkiss and a niimlmi' of
nther lenders f.ixir acceptance! of his
nomination. Many Irreconcllables .no
expected t n clamp for another third
tirkut with Roosevelt lit tho head.
Hut II Is well understood that
neither the t'olonol himself nor his
boat il ol strategy and finance are
favorable to openly opposing Hughes
with another third ticket. They have
served nol.ru that if the Old Guard
nominates Root or Fairbanks, or any
other Mn-ralled reai'ttonary, they
must take lt"i i-nnheiilnnres of defeat
and tin- le.Mum of Wilson Whether
or ti"t the 'olonel would accept a
Progrf sslvn tiumiu illon III that event
is yet to be determined.
ROOSEVELT MESSAGE INSPIRES
THE RADICAL BULL MOOSE.
News of Col Roosevelt's telegram
to Mr. Jackson spread anions tho del
egates as thev gathered In Hie Au
ditorium. They nern .Housed to even morn
passionate devotion than ever beforo
to their lendor. Hut their emotions
wero mixed and their course confused
for the moment. It set tho tndlcals
wild for direct action and quick nomi
nation, but tho conservativo leadeis
counselled patience nnd watchful
walling
"Col Roosevelt has opened thn door
to harmonious eo-opeiatlon and of
fered thn olive brunch to the Old
Guard," they argued "Lot us give
them npportuniu llrsi to act upon
his gem-rims; offnt If thev spurn It
thon wo will go ahead "
On the platform wern Mm lenders
with a totally different polb y in mind
Over tho Oyster Hay telephone wlro
and fiom t.ho Inner sanctum of thn
Perkins council rooms enmo the or
ders to hold back tho unruly herd at
ill costs I.lku the French motto at
Verdun. "They shall not pass." If the
''iilniicl Is nominated now It will spoil
the gatuo. aplll thn beans nnd upset
nil the carefully matured plans.
l.oeb, Von I.engeiko Meyer. Perkins,
l-iir.niM, Rohlni'. and oven tho radical
I Inhnsoti of i 'alifnrnl.i, anil Murdoi k
I if Kansas, lugged, pleaded and cutin
i .'. d fur delay and patience
CIiiU.ii them If nei.-Hsary, do anj-
ihllig, but hold them b.nk." wero the
instructions
1 "I fear that Ruun i ll's nomination
by this coinoniloti is inevitable,"
-.aid Oscar tit rails as he sound' d the
I temper ot thn delegates
All the iiujdiod inanoem ri of the
(Contlnuod oti Second Page.)
"Circulation Books Open
18 PAGES
FOR
HALL. CHICAGO. June J With
afternoon with o struggle all Its own
delccates on the floor.
Impatient, restlets Hull Moose herd
"Do It now!" was thulr cry
"WILL INVITE T. R.?"
"CAN'T SAY" HARDING
Governor Whitman Only Smiles
at the Statement from Oyster
Bay.
COI.IHKFM. CHICAGO. Juno R.
Senator Harding received first news
of Col. Roosuvelt's sliitement fruui
thn Unltel Press, lie smiled when u
United Press corrcsiiondent banded
him the text of the statement on the
platform, but iclused a statement at
that time, hem occupied in his Job
of permanent chairman.
A moment Inter, asked If the Col
onel would be tendered an invitation,
he said: "I mnnnl say."
Harding passed the Culted Press
bulletin buck tu members of thn Na
tional Committee while reading tho
full text himself with Interest.
flov. Whitman, a Hughes backer,
only smiled at the Colonel's stato.
ment.
Later Chairman Harding handed
the following statement to thn frilled
Press:
"Cul. Roosevelt Is always Interest.
Ing and a leading American, hut the
chair has no authority to invite him
and could not recognlzo him ns i
speaker except on order of the con
vention." SEA IS GIVING UP
HAMPSHIRE'S DEAD
Iiod o( Earl Kitchener'- Military
Secretary Auiomr TIiom Brought
Ashore in Scotland.
THURSO, Scotland (via London),
June 8. Several bodies from the
cruiser Hampshire, on which Kleld
Marshal Karl Kitchener ami membots
of his staff wero lost, are being
brought hero. Among them is that
of l.leut Col. O. a. Fitzgerald, private
mllltarj seimtaiy tu Hari Kitchener
Thtiii is no confirmation of riimnn
that some survivors of the sunken
Hampshire have been found. Th"
rumors arc believed to he unau
thentic (For Racinn Results See Page 2.)
SUNDAY WOKLD WANTS
WORK MONDAY WONDIiKS.
WMML
HI COTOV
to All."
HUGHES
Committee on Resolutions Votes
Down Universal Military Service
Some Progressives Are Predicting
That Two Tickets Will Be Named.
BOTH PLATFORMS DECLARE
FOR WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE
Uy Martin Green.
(Speoial Staff Corraapondant of Tha Evening World.)
CONVENTION HALL, CHICAGO, June 8. After the convention
went into session to-day the allied favorite bons, seven in number, agreeJ
that they have no chance. They will close their activities and their votes
after Hie first ballot will go to Hughes. This new development insures
Hughes at lexst 5oo votes on the second ballot and insures his nomination
unless something like a miracle intervenes.
There is some conflict as to whether the name of Justice Hughes or
thai of former Senator Hoot will be first presented. The delegation itself
will decide Ihis question, but both of New York's sons will be placed
before the convention before another State h called.
It appears that George B. Cortelyou, who came here ostensibly be
cause as ex-Chairman of the Republican National Committee he thought
his advice might help out the situation, has cut a considerable figure as a
harmonlzer.
Mr. Cortelyou, according to good authority, has conveyed to the
G. O. I leaders the information that Col. Roosevelt, if he cannot get the
nomination himself, and he has not lost all hope, will support Hughes if
the platform is in accord with Roosevelt ideas.
The difficulty ol shaping a platform for the Republican Party that
will Satisfy Oil. Roosevelt and differences in the committee on resolu
tions over attempt on ihe part ol prn.Gerniaii intensb to inject the
European war into Ihi.s gathering combined to put a barrier in the here
tofore calm and orderly progress of the Republican convention this aft
ernoon. The committee on resolutions, which had promised to furnish
the platform at l-Mo o'clock, found itself unable to agree on several
vital points and asked tor delay.
The programme was' to adopt the platform at I o'clock and pro
ceed immediately with nominations of candidates ior President. Such
a procedure would have given the Republicans the strategical advantage
ot a running -tart on the Progressives, who didn't get started until 2
o'clock, and then with only a temporary organization. The Republican
nominating speeches will not li made until to-moirow and balloting may
not be reached until Saturday morning. The "strategy" of the situation
may pass to the Progressives, as their plans call for nominations not later
than to-morrow night.
The Platform Committee has adopted a Woman's Suffrage plank,
but has voted down the proposal for universal military service.
Some of the Progressive leaders, including Chairman Murdock of the
1 National Committee, were seriously considering immediate nomination
to-day of Col. Roosevelt. Murdock was quoted as saying it might be
"loo late" to-morrow.
Anoth' r day of such weather as has afflicted Chicago since last Mondaj
will Impel the delegates to clamor for a wimlup of tho business of tho
, convention m one session so they can get away. The aun must be shining
eomuwhnre.
Thla in another overcoat tiny, with rain awwplng through tho etreota
on tho "Iiirs ot u half kiiIc.
It la a nail, nubdueil day, and even tho I'rofcrusslves. who aro supposed
.o be weather proof, felt ltn Influuncu. Au Idea of what tho weather Is
iIoIiik nut here ma hr Katned from the fact that the Nutlotml Convention,
the hlKKCSt political alio In tho v.orld, played to-duy to a couplo of thou
. mil etiiit) seat . Speeulatorti with tear In their eyon vainly Implora
pmple on tin street' to buy tlcl.ets Those who do not ndmlro ticket
i.iectihitiir-i iiinlil do a lot of H.itufuctory Kln.ititiK ,i"3here these days.
No Let-Up in the De wm
Over Republics mvention
(Snrci.il From a Stall Correspondent I'onvintlon wcru even mor hUbdUrd
of The Eveninu World.) than thoso of yiiaterilay. Tha 0ft
f'Ol.lSKl M. I'llli'AiiO. June 8 iil.il was on and the watchword was
The ptfellmln.ine.s of thin niornltiK'a , ouuut.
acfjlon of the itepubllcan National! Aiding tha weathr In promoting
. I
PRICE ONE CENT.
