M fftedt C:o4 Welcome to Mie is Civic and Commerce Assoctation.
12 PAGES THE EN RPR ISE. 12 PAGES
VOl. 19 A1 TA. O1, N"' TIUIZ.! (E 8 1916 NO 8
- 1 1 . . - n, ' -' -..... .
h*ooooo0000000oooooeoooo$do8g6000ooooeoooo00ooo
. MALTA
Written for this paper by MATTiE T. CRAMER.
Malta, the county seat of the six
teen months old county of Phillips,
one of the forty-one counties in a
state containing an area of 146,201
square miles, is ideally and pictur
esquely located on the historic Milk
river, on the main line of the Great
Northern railway, three hundred
miles east of Helena, the capital of
the state. The position the city oc
cupies on the river, its substantial
and imposing business blocks, its
beautifull modern residences, sur
rounded by well kept lawns, shade
trees and flowers, its numerous
hurches, its hospitals, its hand-,
*me and modern school building,
ts grain elevators towering skyward,
ts capacious flour mill, its electric
ighting system, its water and sewer
system, the waters of Milk river
coursing along its northern boun
dary, a l give it the appearance of a
city several times its size and make
it attractively beautiful as a "home
town."
The growth of the town during
the past decade has been phenomenal
and where but yesterday the gaudily
pinted Indian placed his wigwam
and lit his camp fire to roast his
enison or other wild meat, or later
here the cowboy with shaps and
road sombrero made after vast
erds of cattle whose hoof beats
everbenated over the suin-seared
raries, today there is a pulsating,
hrobbing city, peopled with red
looded men and women who are
ot content with working and striv
ng for the present but for the future
elfare of the city and its posterity
s well. Malta is appropriately called
he city of opportunity for here are
und advantages material, physical,
ducational, religious and economic.
So phenomenal has been the city's
evelopment that those who are not
ntimately familiar with conditions
night charaterize its rapid growth
as a boom. But Malta is not a
"boom town," nor has it ever aspired
to be a boom town in sense in which
the word is commonly used. It has
never been built larger than its pos
sibilities warrant. Its wonderful
progress and development of the
past few ,years has been done solely
on tlHe'salie and sound basis of sup
ply and demand; this is evidenced
.oy the volume of important business
transacted, the figures attendant up
on the abundant crop returns from
the surounding country, by the civic
the surrounding country, by the civic
fact that there are no idle business
blocks or houses already constructed
and in waiting for prospective ten
ants. Malta's resources are mani
fold and sufficient to support the
healthy growth of the city. Capital
is available for building purposes
and when the building is needed the
money is forthcoming. This indi
cates, most emphatically, a steady,
positive advancement and an in
creased flow of wealth, through its
ban ke.
Potent factors in the solidity of
the city are the sheep and cattle in
dustries of its rural districts, the in
creased farm acreage of the adjoin
ing country, and incidentally, the
.ich gold mines of the Little Rockies
augment its commercial activity.
Surrounding the city lies some of the
greatest potential land of the north
west and as yet there has hardly
been a dent made in the rich land to
be cultivated. In that land, by in
telligent cultivation, lies future pros
perity, power, wealth, and influence.
The Milk River Irrigation project
promises to transform all the river
bottom lands and a large acreage is
already receiving water for the 1916
crops. The entire irrigable area of
t.he Milk River project in Northern
Montana is 225,000 acres but only
,fractional part is entirely complet
ed. Eight thousand acres in the vi
cinity of Malta, Wagner and Dodson
is receiving water for irrigation pur
poses this season. During the year
1912 the United States government
erected a handsome two-story office
building in Malta. Project Manager
W. W. Schlect and his corps of as
sistants make headquarters in this
building, which is known as the
"Reclamation Office Building."
During 1915 about $200,000 was
xpended in public buildings, brick
nd concrete business blocks,houses,
bungalows, garages, cottages, street
pavements and other lasting im
rovements. Building operations
ere commenced in the spring as
oon as weather conditions would
permit and continued throughout the
mummer and fall and well into the
winter. Three. of the most note
worthy of these 1915 buildings are
he Edwards-McLellan block, the
new school building and the Varney
block. The handsome three-story
Edwards-McLellan business block of
concrete, erected at a cost of $50,000
ornaments the east side of Fifth ave
ue and contains the Fifth Avenue
Hotel and Cafe, the Enterprise print
ng plant, the Russell Cigar factory,
Ferris' club room, and the Russell
,arber shop.
The new $24,000 school building
is a modern, concrete structure, and
ffers splendid encouragement to all
who are interested in the city's edu
ational advancement. Through the
antiring efforts of Prof. J. L. Elliott
and his able corps of teachers, the
school has recently been placed on
he accredited four-year high school
ist. The school library contains six
undred volumes for supplementary
work in English and history. Five
teachers are employed in the grade
work below the high school and the
very best talent is secured as no
teacher can secure a position unless
she is a normal or college graduate
who has had two years' experience in
teaching since graduation. Thus the
Malta teachers are eligible to secure
state certificates and are specialists
in their respective departments.
Professor Elliott is a graduate of
Lawrence College and has taken
post graduate work at Missoula, or
the state university. He has been en
gaged in teaching for the past four
years, three of Which he has been
principal of the Malta schools.
The Varney block on Sixth aveune
and Cosner street, cost Mr. Varney
$15,000 and furnishes Phillips coun
ty with its court room and jail, the
city of Malta with a council chamber,
the city engineer's office and a house
for the Malta Fire company's fire
fighting apparatus.
With the passing of the cottonwood
log buildings, within whose warped
and time-honored walls the earliest
settlers passed many a happy hour,
there was created a demand for other
and more lasting building material
and a lumber yard was opened in
Malta by the Imperial Lumber com
pany of Minneapolis, and for a num
ber of years this company handled all
the lumber business. Coincidentally,
with the great influx of homesteaders,
the Malta Mercantile company and
the Tressler Lumber company entered
the field, and were followed in 1910
by the Thompson Lumber company.
The Malta lumber dealers carry
everything in building materials
from the proverbial "crooked stick"
to the finest of finished woods and the
grade of materials carried are a
means of stimulating the architect or
contractor's inventive power as evi
denced by many handsome business
blocks'and beautiful residences. By
meeting the city's growing demands
and catering to the needs of an im
m.ense country territory the lumber
industry has grown and prospered.
F'requently may be seen a four-horse
team drawing- a wagon piled high
with building material i iicihi! being
~ven beiilg taken to CaI ila. The
ountry tributary to the town has
,a.d its pulse quickened by prosperity
and building operations have trans
:ormed primitive habitations, and to
lay, many a large and comfortable
arm house or a spacious barn grace
he premises where erstwhile a log
,abin, board shack or straw covered
table answered every purpose. The
roprietors and managers o' iumber
oncerns in Malta incuude John Sur
rant, Win. Tressler, G. L. Thompson,
vTm. H. Chase and the Imperial Luan
ber company.
The Motor Inn. Standard, Moore
and North Side garages with their
skilled mechanics in connection are
veritable oases for citizens and trav
eler swhen their machines are dis
abled or need sheltering. The large
number of buzz wagons in city and
country is another interest4ng story
of Father Time's transition for it has
only been seven brief summers since
a Malta citizen purchased and
brought the first automobile to the
city. Now they are thick as bees in
a Minnesota clover field, one dealer
alone selling 91 machines this sea
son. Thosh managing garages and
representing automobile companies
are John Shady, T. V. Sharp, C. H.
MeCready, O. F. McKone, Wm. Cul
bert and J. F. Murray.
The Moore Telephone company of
Glasgow, not only supplies the city
with a most satisfactory local ser
vice but its lines furnish a quick
means of communication with rural
districts, the Little Rocky region,
neighboring towns and distant cities
In approaching Malta two eleva
tors are conspicuous features and at
test to ..the agricultural productive
ness of the country. In former years
when the herds of the great cattle
companies numbered from 1000 to
50,000 head, "cattle was king," but
with the retirement of the cattle
magnates and the turning of the
range into agricultural areas, the
readjustment called for elevators
'and the St. Anthony & Dakota Ele
vator company of Minneapolis, erect
ed a capacious building here in
1910. This was sufficient for a sea
son or two but the ever increasing
crop products induced the Imperial
Elevator company in 1913 to build
an elevator in this city. Railroad
facilities are ideal for grain ship
ments as both elevators are on the
main line of the Great Northern rail
way and during the past year ship
ments from this point materially
swelled the figures of the state's
crop returns. The St. Anthony &
Dakota Elevator company is man
aged by E. E. Reiner, while the in
terests of the Imperial Elevator
company are looked after by Sam
Winkenweder. Mention should also
be made of Senator John Suravnt's
new elevator, which opened for busi
ness last fall.
Another of the 1915-16 industries
to be launched in the city is the Sur
vant Flour mill on Milk river. The
mill is a commodious, substantial
building fully equipped with latest
and best machinery for milling pur
poses. Milling operations were com
menced as recent as April and its
output of 60 barrels of flour daily
finds a ready market and the mill is
of the greatest convenience to farm
cis anu stocK raisers generally, as ir
adrl tion to its daily product of flour
feed is ground.
Banks are the financial and com,
mercial barometers of the communi
tyr in which they are located--tl.
straws that indicate which way tbh
inrancial wind is blowing. Malta ha:E
two substantial kind-The Firsl
State Bank and the First National
Bank. The former bears the destinc
tion of being the pioneer bank oi
Malta, having been established in
1903. 'The First State Bank owns
its banking house, an elegant two
story structure at the corner oi
Front street and Sixth avenue. The
first floor is occupied by its banking
business and the Rundle Abstract
company, while the second floor is
occupied by the clerk and recorder's
office and the office of the county
treasurer. This bank is a local in
stitution, 490 out of 500 shares of
the stock being held by Phillips
county residents. The bank is in
a most flourshing condition as its
statement of May 1st, 1916, showed
deposits amounting to $411,441.05,
a reserve of $206,933.47 and total
resourses of $481,528.18
The First National Bank at the
corner of Front Street and Fifth
Avenue is a member of the Reserve
Bank of the United States and was
established in Malta in 1910. This
bank is also enjoying an increasing
business and the volume of that bus
iness is most gratifying to its direct
orate and apparent to its patrons
generally.
The city owns its water works and
sewer system as well as the electric
light plant and all are features of
which the city may speak with pride.
The water supply of the city is de
rined from a well about half a mile
from Front street, the principal
street of the city. This well is for
ty-four feet deep and fifteen feet in
diameter. One half mile from the
well is a re-inforced concrete reser
voir at an elevation of 110 feet
above the well. The capacity of the
reservoir is 160,000 gallons. The
water works is equipped with tripple
cylinder Gould pump, 9x12 feet
which pumps 500 gallons of water
per minute. The pump is' directly
connected to a thirty-five horse pow
er vertical engine. J. F. Vert has
charge of the water works system.
A visit to the large merchantile
establishments will convince most
skeptical that the stocks of merchan
dise carried by Malta rnerchants are
new, complete, well displayed and
up-to-the-rninute in the season's de
mandls. Malta merchants have sur
vived triumphantly "hard y*an.s'
when crop failure'- ma;e' collections
small and iff.icult:. .No a merch
ant ihas a mortage on success but
each has kept step in reaching a
financial standing few attain in
frontier cities. The personnel of the
city's niercantile world includes R.
/i. Trafton, John Survant, J. F. Kil
iuff, L. C. Edwards, Louis Hirsch
kowitz, F. WV. St. Hill, J. F. Murray,
]. B. Chambers, G. L. Partridge, B.
-I. Koke, Herbert Dorr, Ray Gardner
-eo. Whitney, Leon Reed, L. D.
Bates, A. P. Laramy, Ellis Blumen
hal, Mrs. George Forge, T. R. Scho
Inblorn; Nial Smith and Mrs. M. M.
Mercer,.
R. M. Trafton is the pioneer store
keeper of Malta and came to this
locality in 1887, when antelope herds
numbered from fifty to five hund
red' and the teepees of the red men
dotted the bench land and the val
leys. To Mr. and Mrs. Trafton be
long the distinction of being the first
i white people to build a log cabin in
Malta. At that time one might ride
for a whole day and encounter noth
ing but Indians and wild animals.
Soon after they located here "things
began to happen," and during the
summer of 1887 the Great Northern
Railroad was pushed through from
Devil's Lake to Great Falls. Mr.
Trafton engaged in the taraffic of
buffalo bones and they were so
plentiful at that period that he ship
ped thirteen hundred tons, (Over
one hundred car load) the first sea
son. This old timer's life is replete
with interesting experiences and sit
uation of the early days and in
watching the changes that have been
wrought by Time's evolution in city
and country. In.October, 1915, Mr.
Trafton generously donated a resi
dehce block of twenty-two lots for
a Phillips county court house site,
for like all newly created counties
that have no court house the officials
have their headquarters wherever
most convenient. Some have offices
on the second floor of the Veseth
block, others over the First State
Bank and still others over the Ed
wards-McLellan store, but the day
is not for distant when the tax pay
ers of the county will see fit to vote
upon the question of building a
court house and then Mr. Trafton's
donation will be truly appreciated.
Societies, lodges, clubs, and fra
ternal orders are well represented
in Malta, and include A. F. & A. M.,
No. 57; I. O. O. F., F. O. E., Re
bekah lodge No.32, O. E. S., the Milk
River Valley Gun Club, and the
Woman's club. The I. O. O. F. have
awarded the contract for a hall to
commenced the erection of a hall
and the F. O. E, also will erect a
huilding this summer.
The Woman's Club, created for
study and social culture, has just
finished its 15th year. Its member
ship has steadily increased until the
past year has been the banner year
in numbers, forty-five members hav
ing been enrolled. Taking for its
motto, "Mental Culture is the Food
for Humanity," year by year has i
witnessed intellectual 'growth and
attainnient of culture which is the
result of unified and harmonious
study of club subjects and the social
enjoyment derived from its meet-i
ings. This energetic little band, ac
tuated by a desire to improve the
S:oiiy, tok charge of the Malta cem
etery seiteral years ago, their object
mainly in so doing was to beautify
it. aM. during thle years 1907 and
-1908, the club expended $1,018 in
Simproving it and in an effort
Stowards beautifying it. A handsome
Sand. bii~Stantia fence was built
t around the cemetery, a well drilled
1 and a Windmill for irrigating pur
poses Installed. Thus "God's Acre"
Ein Malta was made more attractive
and a more desirable resting place
3for the- departed. The money thus
expended, was raised by giving a
home t1ibint play, a Fourth of July
dinner Mnild two public balls. Later,
the establishment of a public library
was undertaken and this library
t jrough donations and books pur
c sed by club money has grown to
a library of more than one thous
and 'volumes. For the past two
years the library has had its home
in the J, F. Muray drug store with I
Mrs. Murray as librarian. The
club has outlined even greater
things for the ensuing year than
ever before undertaken by it.
The work of christianizing this
section of Montana is well under:
way and a number of religious de
nominations are represented. The
MethodiSt, Congregational and Cath-;
olic churches own their own
church buildings while the Episcop- f
alians who are also represented here
hold their services in a rented hall. t
The leaders of the various churches, t
are: Rev. R. L. Cookingham, Meth- r
odist; Rev. Carl Perrin, Congrega- r
tional; Rev. G. L. Stine, United c
Brethren. This latter denomination e
is the latest to be established here c
but has recently completed a hand-! a
some concrete church building.,
The physical defects and ailments c
of the citizens are looksd after by 1i
Drs. G. W. Clay and C. E. Blanken- b
horn, and R. F. Timm, D. C. n
Dr. Clay is the pioneer physician b
of this locality and came to Malta
in 1893 when a box car answered e
for a depot, when frolicsome cow- s
boys occasionally shot up the town, o
and when there was not a farmer v
either wet or dry, to be found from p
the Missouri river to the Canadian !
line. It was then the Doctor hung t]
out his shingle and ever since has b
been ready to answer every call g
often forgetfui of self or fee. ti
There are two hospitals where the it
physicians nmay take special cases d
and treat diseases of a peculiar na- it
ture. The Malta hospital on the
North Side under the management v
of Mrs. Viola lbaugh, was the first n
hospital' established in the city. tl
Later, Mrs. Mary Rabetorye opened v
the .psp.ita,4,_lat bears her name. is9
Mayor i-Harry Cosner is at the n
head of lid city's government ando
although il I. Cosner has recently l
taken ihe oath of office, he is inti- c(
n:.ately l'amniliar with Malta's devel- tl
opment ntid pith the reins of the mu- i
nicipality in nis hands the citizens d,
may explect strict economy in the ad- ile
ministration of municipal affairs, I t
and it is safe to say that under his in
adminstration money will be forth- fc
coming for city improvement and n
public uses. in
In Malta Blackstone has several ei
followers---notable figures who are tc
impressive as to appearance, force- b;
ful in forensic oratory and learned
in law. They are Attorneys James ti
WVilsoi, ('. H. Stevens, J. A. Tress-'lu
ler, H. 1M. Kirton, H. L. Wolfe, Jr., la
Fred C. Gabriel and W. E. McGarry. fe
The hotel, restaurant and cafe P.
business of the city is entirely ade- ca
quate to its needs. The Malta Ho- th
tel on the North Side is the pioneer te
Iostelry of the town and was built i'c
about a quarter of a century ago. th
Later the Great Northern Hotel er- fo
ected by Max Sklower at the corner tic
of Front street and Sixth Avenue, in
because one of the conspicuous feat- M
ures of the city and indirectly, has pr
added materially to the growth of ta
Malta. Mr. Sklower and his two in
sons, Joseph and Emanuel , have cb
nanaged hotel continueously since
its erection here. L. Whitmore, se
Schoenborn & Smith, Chong & Kong ex
and Mrs. M. Purcell, C. E. Hayden ii
are proprietors of cafes and restau- cc
rants. oDr
Malta has two weekly newspapers
The Enterprise and The Malta call.
These publications keep their read
ers posted on the news of the day
both at home and abroad. The
Enterprise was established here 18
years ago and has ever enjoyed a
prominence in moulding public opin
ion and in telling the outside world
of the development taking place in
this section of the northwest.
Newspapers published at any coun
ty seat are not without interest to
intelligent readers as a class of
news is published in which the aver
age thinking citizen is most vitally
interested. In The Enterprise, the
official paper of the county, the peo
ple of northern Montana and Phillips
county especially, have one of the
most ably edited and newsiest of all
the hlontana weekly press. The
Enterprise printing plant on Fifth
Avenue ranks second to none in its
equipment and office facilities for
putt linig ut first class work.
The climate here is unsurpassed
the lines. in the world-for it invig
oraellc and exhilarates. And if you
are a stlranger passing through the
city's gates you will never forget the
glory of the sun and air. Slight
wonl-'r that a public speaker from
the ItHosier state who visited Malta
recently, and who enjoyed a walk in
the pillucid morning atmosphere
said it was a shame to allow all this
wonlderful air to go to waste when
o .a;ny thousands were panting for
vittlizing air in the congested centers
of large cities.
Malta is looking and working for
still greater achievements, and with
its present solid foundation must
inevitably come a better and great
(Continued on 12th page.)
IRRIGATION
Special article by C. B. MAUSR of the U. S. Reclamation Service
Man cannot change climate. Noth- w4
ing he can do will increase the aver- sh
age rainfall a fraction of an inch, de
nor change the average temperature th
a single degree. Nevertheless, man br
can change the aspect of nature. He pr
is doing it in the Milk River Valley. of
One of his tools is civil engineering, ma
the other will be scientific farming. wi
Engineering is bringing water for mi
irrigation, and farming is now tak- th
ing up the task of transformation. lei
Hand in hand the two will change Bt
the old Milk River valley from a on
semi-arid region of fluctuating value pr
and uncertain, production to a coun- me
try of continual and growing pros- an
perity, derived from the results of wi
successful farming every year, Bt
Twenty-five years ago the only in- thi
dustry worth considering in the Milk ne
River valley was the raising of wa
range cattle. Little attempt at de
farming was made, because the rain- of
fall did not seem adequate when lar
compared with successful agricul- inl
tural regions. Some attempts to ir- cal
rigate were made along the Milk Su
river, but none of these could be ate
called as reliable and the yearly nec- oc
essity might require. Spring floods ed
.ften washed away the works and
at the times of greatest need the tio
stream might dwindle to an insuffli- gr
tient flow or go dry. Later some mc
larger attempts were made by com- fut
iinations of land owners or entry- ma
men, who by joining their resources tut
uilt more extensive works and at- dui
;nined considerable success. How- suc
aver, these plants were likewise im]
,ubject to periodic damage by floods, the
)r inadequatecy from insufficient bei
water in the river. Although the we
eople of the valley realized the un- Th
satisfactory nature of these works, soy
hey did not believe that the possi- ore
ility existed of a system for irri- a f
rating a large area of land. Even I no
he water supply had been sufficient, the
t was considered that such an un- a
lertaking would never attract cap- ind
tal enough to carry it through, ret
Such a supposition was right. Pri- wo
rate capital and enterprise would ind
lever have given a second glance at
he possibility of developing the val
'alley through irrigation on a large or
eale. But Ihe United States govern- tioi
nent is not so neglectful of un-fav- ;he
;red portions of its domain. In tag
890 the U. S. Geological Survey dis- for
overed the feasibility of bringing deol
he water from St. Mary Lakes, in sire
chat is now known as Glacier Park. chca
own the eastern slope of the Rock- tim
s. into the north fork of Milk river, lng
hrough a canal twenty-eight miles eve
, length. Thence the water would are
ollow the river channel, turning ty J
orthward into Canada, then back ure
ito the United States, and south- quic
asterly through northern Montana, not
o be diverted onto the valley land Riv
y noeans of dams and canals. far,
Definite plans for carrying out mal
his scheme were not formulated and
ntil after the passage of the Rec- he
cmation Act in 1902. The large sou
satures of the Milk River Irrigation thei
'roject were mapped out, some the,
anal locations were made: and
thereupon the Secretary of the In
terior set aside one million dollars
for active construction. However,
the work of construction was slow
for several years on account of dif
ficulties arising with Canada regard
ing water supply, the necessity of
Milk river, and contracting with
private land owners in the velley to
take the water and bind their hold
ings to the return of construction
charges to the Reclamation Fund.
While these matters were being
settled, work was carried on to the
extent of building a dam in the
river near Dodson, Montana, and the
completion of the first unit of the
project, with canals for irrigating
7,800 acres of land. Plans and pre
liminaries were also accomplished.
The area to be irrigated was set at
220,000 acres, in a strip of land
stretchllng from Chinook to Nashua,
about 150 miles. Eight hundred
and fifty second-feet of water was to
be brought down from the lakes
in Glacier Park to supplement the
flow of the Milk river. Sites for di
version dams and canal systems
leading therefrom, were located at
Chinook, Dodson and Vandalia and
plans were made for a storage res
ervoir, now called Nelson Reservoir,
20 miles east of Malta, with a ca
pacity of 133,000 acre-feet of water.
In 1912 the obstacles were finally
removed and the larger construction
began. At the present time the sys
tem has been carried to a point
where one-fourth of the 220,000
acres in the project is under com
pleted canals. A second dclam of re
inforced concrete has been built
near Vandalia. The St. Mary canal
is completed, and also Dodson North
Dodson South and Vandalia South
nanals, and the first development of
Nelson reservoir, while construc
tion is also proceeding on Nelson
Reservoir South canal and Bowdoin
canal, which upon completion will
add 40,000 acres to the irrigable
area.
Reclamation makes possible a
great future for the valley of the
Milk river. Realization will depend
upon the use the people make of the
opportunity. Formerly the region
was thought forever doomed to med
iocre production because of lack of
water. Settlements were scattering
and small. But a change has gradu
ally come about, and is growing
more remarkable every year. The
~-~~VV -VVI~ ·
work of reclamation has done its
share in bringing about the present
development, because of the money
that construction expenditures have
brought into the country. But the
present impetus given to. trade is
of small importance beside the per
manent prosperity which irrigation
will bring to the valley. Where for
merly production was uncertain, in
the future few failures on the val
ley's irrigated lands need occur.
Business and industry can depend
on a steady growth, aggricultural
production will expand steadily,
money will come into the valley in
an increasing amount. The result
will justify the faith of the Empire
Builder who put a railway through
the unpromising prairie, and the en
neers who conceived the idea that
water could be carried 500 miles to
develop a country where a section
of land was formerly thought hardly
large "enough to be worth consider
ing, into a region where a family
can live well on every eighty acres.
Such a prediction can be substanti
ated by comparing it with what has
occurred in other semi-arid irrigat
ed places.
In the past the principal produc
tions of the Milk River valley have
grain and vegetables, produced
mostly for local markets. In the
future increasing value of land will
make it imperative to get larger re
turns. Perhaps the principal pro
duct of the soil will be forage crops,
such as alfalfa, which will be fed to
immense numbers of cattle, both in
the valley and on the surrounding
bench lands. The region is also
well adapted to sugar beet growing.
There is little reason to doubt that
sugar manufacturers are very fav
orably inclined toward establishiing
a factory in the valley, and they will
no doubt do so in the near future if
the farmers will guarantee to raise
a sufficient quantity of beets. This
industry will bring direct financial
returns and its by-products will
work to the advantage of the cattle
industry.
Without a doubt, the Milk River
valley offers excellent opportunity
for persons of dusttry, determina
tion and some capital. Lands are
cheap and can be gotten on.advan
tageous terms, and at present water
f:or irrigation can be gotten for a
dollar per acre-foot, in quantity de
sired. This gives the settler a
chance to get established before the
time arrives for repayment of build
ing charges. These charges, how
ever, will not be a burden, as they
are extend ed over a periotd of twen
ty years, without interest. The fail
ure-somewhere-else, the get-rich
cuick man andt the speculator will
not make anything in the Milk
River valley. But the progressive
farmer with some equipment and
uake good here under irrigation,
and along with his own Prosperity
lie will develope the valley into a
mome short-visioned persons to make
:heir usual hind-sighted wish that
hey had known it snnna.
1ST ANNUAL NORTHERN
MONTANA STAMPEDE.
'Io Ble Held at Havre July 4th, 5th,
6th 7th and 8th, 1916.
A five day Frontier Show, which
will have by far the largest list of
purses, prizes, contestants, and novel
entertainment features, of any show
which has ever been held anywhere
in the entire Northwest. Here you
will see the world's best ropers, bull
doggers and bucking horse riders
in competitve exhibitions for the big
purses. Chariot races, stage coach
races, sham battles, bull fights, In
dian war dances, and scores of other
novel entertainment feats will make
a thrill for every minute at the
Havre Stampede. At no other Wild
West Show has there been shown
such new, novel and hazardous feats
as steer bulldogging from a motor
cycle, bulldogging a steer from a
loose horse, roping grizzley bears
and coyotes, and roping wild horses
from saddled bulls. Monster flood
lights will illuminate the grounds at
night, while a complete program and
high class carnival attractions will
entertain the crowds. Hundreds of
Indians, hundreds of performers
niounted bands, horses, chariots and
stage coaches will take part every
day and night in the grand parade
spectacle and review. The best rid
ers and the best bucking and relay
racing horses in the country will be
assembled here for the HIavre show.
Canada will be represented by those
who compete at the Moose Jaw tour
nament for the Canadian chamnpioin
ship; winners heri end at Moose
Jaw will have their railroad ares
paid and conimpete ar \Vadlcks' Stam
pede, Sheepsihead a:iy, New York,
in August Ifor ihe World's chamipion
sliip. Every airs ngeIneni has been
made for the staging of the big
event and the acconmmodation of its
patrons. The big grand stand has
been trippled and the great flood
lights installed for the night shows.
iReduced rates of one and one-third
fares from all points on the Great
Northern railway, Iavre homes will
bie wide open and there will be ac
coniodations for all who come, and a
square deal is absolutely guaran
teed.
Originators of "Let 'em Ramble."
