THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TW BNTY-SEVENTH YEAR
16 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JUNE 8, 1916.
16 PAGES
VOL. XXVII.. NO. 21
R COL. R
OOSEVELT
CROWD
SELF HOARSE
Fl
G. 0. P. Leaders Predict Nomination of Hughes on Early Ballot
HERE THE PROGRESSIVES
ARE MEETING
IX CHICAGO
10
Progressive National Con
vention Opens with Most
Remarkable Demons! ra
i ton for Former President
and Father of the Party
RAYMOND ROBINS
SOUNDS KEYNOTE
Had Spoken But Three Sen
tences of Speech When
Roosevelt's Name Precip
itates Wave of Enthusiasm
(Republican A P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 7. The pro
gressive national convention
uoened in the Auditorium today
with a record-breaking demon
stration for Colonel Roosevelt.
For one hour and thirty-three
minutes she delegates and specta
tors roared, shouted and cheered
and applaude.l. They sang the
progressive batt'e hymns, paraded
the aisles and over the stage and
howled down all attempts to check
them. The demonstration ex
ceeded the previous record for
'such affairs of one hour and-twenty-nine
minutes established
in the democratic convention in
Denver in 1908 in beha'f of V-'i1-liam
J. Bryan, which had excesd
"d by four minutes thi recorJ
made in the republican conven
tion in Chicago when Colonel
Roosevelt's supporters sought his
nomination over William H. Taft.
Raymond Robins, temporary i-luir-min
of the convention, had iokcn
three sentences of his keynote s'.eech
when he mentioned Colonel RMN
pelt's name. A ware of ent'atisl-.ism.
that amounted to nothing less then a
paroxysm, resulted. "The foremost
citizen of the world," was the char
acterization Robins used in his men
tion of the Colonel's name. The re
spi i se was instantaneous.
'".Ye want Teddy." roared the dele
gates, and Hie demonstration was o,,.
W II. umbrellas raised they begin
via I chine; ah. ut the ball, They flowed
upon the staKe and wrung ictor
Murdock's hand as they filed by unr.il
the stalwart Kansar.'s collar wis wilt
ed. Hamilton Fish. Jr.. and .v.iolNv
man seized a delegate bearing an
Aim rlcan flag and rjTied him noun"!
tin hall on their she alders. Banners
were lorn from Heir places and
stanchions were lifted from th ! titer
as the shouting host tramped around.
chairman Robins made sever.il at-
' :
1 i i . .... i
TEUTDKS THE
FORT VAUX IN
urnnnu nrnmn
ItMatb OH
Anv
SF1SNITH1T
NO DEMONSTRATIONS '
ATTEND CONVENTION
of the republicans HUGHES WILL BE
THE NOMINEE
jack of Outbursts of
Kind G. 0. P. Con-
eludes Organization After
Listening to Harding's
Keynote Speech
I HERE'S KEYNOTER OF
G. 0. P. CONVENTION
GENERAL MOVEMENT
' JS NOW REPORTED
Auditorium Theater, Chicago.
ROBINS TELLS PROGRESS
ROOSEVELT IS IN OF HOUR
rench Admit That Port
Near Verdun Has Fallen
into Teutonic Hands, with
Many Men Captured and (P,publican A. P. Leased Wire
Killed . CHICAGO, June 7. The republican1
I niillfinii convention assembled in the
Coliseum today, heard a keynote
speech delivered ly Senator Warren O.
Harding Of Ohio, perfected an organ-
lzation and adjourned until 11 o'clock!
tomorrow morning, tt all took just i
two hours, and in its lack of demon
stration or outbursts of any kind and
rtfl strict attention to the business in
hand, was reminiscent of the Philadel
phia convention of IS00 that nominated
McKinley and Roosevelt.
For one hour and twenty minutes. !
Senator Harding, the temporary chair-
t Republican A. P. Leased Wire ! man. delivered a carefully prepared i
Corf Vuox. lying some five miles I Peecb, punctuated in the telling
northeast at Verdun, which for weeks points with brief periods of hand clap
past the French have been stubbornly ping and applause, but at no time did 1
defending against terrific onslaughts i a demonstration occupy more than a
by the Germans, has at last fallen t half minute by the watch,
into the hands of the Teutons, accord-j The convention was twenty-five;
ins to Berlin. The men who defended minutes behind the hour arranged for
Germans Attacking British
Lines Near Ypres Violent-
ly. Managed to Take One
! Line of Trendies in the
I Village of Hooge
His Boom Hat Grown to
Tremendous Proper! ions
and Practical Politicians
Forecast His Certain and
Early Selection
P.. Leased Wire
1
Republican A.
CHICAGO, June j;. More political
leaders are predicting the nomination
of Justice Ctiarles Kuans Hughes to
nisht than at any tiilne since the re
publican national convention began to
assemble. They del-Rare that unless
the action of overwhelming eirotim-
to reflect the
it. the nomina
r i 1 1- come even
oredifted. The
vV are practical
stantial evidence fails'
situation in its true lig
tion of the justice w
sooner than has been
men who take this viev
If
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. June 7. The keynote ad
dress of the progressive party's nation
al convention here today, delivered lv
Raymond Robins of Chicago as tem
porary chairman, asserted in vigorous
terms
1. That the progressives will stand
by the announcement made by the na
tional committee last January that the
party will join the republicans if the
latter nominate tor president f man
true to progressive principles;
2. That the principle, however, is
greater than the party, and if need
be the progressives will go on alone;
3. That preparedness is the para
mount issue of the campaign, and
4. That Theodore Roosevelt is the ,
man of the hour.
"What this country needs now is a
MAN," announced Mr. Robins. In the
COMTM of his speech he said:
"Now as we are met again in national '
convention the:-- coma to us once more j
a common knowledge that in 111 we I
sounded forth a trumpet that shall
never call retreat.' And we know that
i we are nere to write a record that shall
Ml II lilies alike to the faint-hearted and I
the skeptical and to the great army still
, allium to tne cause, tnat our vision is
1 yet undimmed and that our standards
j have not been furled.
1 "Hut the nnhlest common ' ... t . . of
SOUNDS KEYNOTE
FOR PROGRESSIVES
tempts to quell the demonstration 'an
. . ... . ,. , . rtinerica is noi hit natural wealth nor
i np. The band chimed in w th the l . . . . .... , . '
. . ... are her best traditions found iff the
1 r. gressive lutttle hvmtis and soon ! . . . . ,
I chronicles of her commercial greatness.
ir'sies to Hie strains of "Onward,
Christian Soldiers.'' Despite the aan-dk-ap
of the steps hiding up it to Hie
l ;.h ony the demonstration s;rad
there and soon the spectators it the
l.i'ionies joined In. Manners v,?re
M. ached from their hangings and
uvtcd. Iiearing these inscriptions:
'Teddy aid safety first."
It Teddy was I resident where
would Villa be"
j We may well confess that under other
; flags, even tinder other national ideals,
i American ingenuity, industry and
courage might have achieved greater
material welfare for all her people, and
with her vast natural resources she
might well have done away with that
grinding poverty that is now unknown I
in manv less lavorcn latins. We may
take just pride in the lesser achieve
ments of our people in developing the
the fort to the last surrendered to j its assembly but when Chairman Hides ;
the Germans who also captured a ; of the republican national committee j
large numlier ol guns, machine guns, j brought down his gavel at 11:25 o'clock
and mine throwers. it moved quietly and with precision
Paris, however, claimed the fort was . until adjournment at 1:25.
till in French hands early Wednesday ! Those of the old time leader present '
morning, but that since then it had: wh() used ,(J march down the aisles to I
been impossible to communicate withj(hpjr seat to tne tune o( ail uoar, !
the fort owing to the violence of the walked jn ,oday almost unrecognized.
bonihnrdinent. w Mun-ay Crane, Senator Lodge. Reed j
Cams ot consiueiaoie P"li"" I 8mool and a lot of the others came
by the Russians over the teutonic
Raymond Kobins
rnerlcan."
"W hy take chances"
Ri osevelt can do."
true greatness of
, till vs i na 1 i- 1 1 1 f. .. ..f o i....
peupic nam i. iv. a reium ..... M ,i.
; America.
We know what i ..elfish business and politics never
' I i s;i ,-i 1 in t ) , -a , ,f . ,
W e want Teddv, and other pro- t valuilbIe p()Sst.ssi()n ,,. ,...
gresslve slogans. Then the band heritage which alone is worth the sa
sw.t. hed to 'Marching T.irry.iR,, rfcitt, cwt of praredness to defend
.eiirgia and a medley of popul ,r againfjt e worWh(.r Dem,.rati(.
aim and the aisles liecame so blocked , sollI , thi8 time jt
ilia, no one moved for several mln-,tai that we 8tfUMl m ,ht.
nit... mir ine niuri iii-i siun'i s'tii , ,,, ..... ..,1 .
uvijuiiait-u u LUC
Wo have our ruth
confident of their
In the jam, they kept up the din.
(Continued on Page Three)
I great nations rait
I ideal of Caesar,
less master men
right and ability io rule their fellows,
but they do not rule us yet.
"Wt gathei to determine our pro
gram to meet the practical needs for
national action in th-s time of havoc
and honor in other lands. And it is
well that we should approach oar task
with the vision of a belter day. We
may well resolve that no worse day,
with havoc and liftrror in our midst,
shall be known to us or to the coming
generations and that we shall wisely
plan to preserve in peace our great inheritance.
"A competent program for national ; raptured
imMwdfuiJi must cimioreheial and. "hd put
I meet the social, economic, and spirit
ual needs of the people. Merc military
preparedness alone is inadequate for
the safeguarding of the nation's life,
even in time of war. The final issue of
the titanic struggle that now convulses
Europe will lie decided in the homes,
workshops, fields, aitd laboratories of
the peoples now at war
for national security i
PROGRESSIVE PLRTFDHMTO BE
I MM
allies by the Turks ever the Russian-.!
ami by the Germans over the British
..re ocorocd in ('h, latest official com- j
muriications. In the region of Verdun
violent artillery combats are hi prog-j
' ress, while an the Austro-ltalian line,
the Italians continue to hold the Aus- i
: trim) from further advances.
In the fighting that is going on;
from the 1'ripet marshes to the Ru-
manian frontier the Russians in their
I big offensive movement have dis
lodged the Teutons from fortified po
sitions, and brought their aggregate
rf men v-aptured up to about 41. tun1.
(They also have taken 144 machine
' gups and 41) bomb throwers.
' Among the men made prisoner are
I ;i'i(i officers.
As an offset to the Russian gains
over the Teutonic allies, however.
' 'onstantinople asserts "that in Asia
' Minor, in the Kope mountain district.
I the Russians haw been driven eight i
: kilometers eastward from positions
i extending over 1 1 kilometers, suffer
l ing losses of more that) a thousand
! men kil!d or wounded. The fighting
J in this immediately vicinity covers a
front of over Zl miles, witn tne
'links the aggressors and with the
situation favorable to them, accord
ing to ii'onstantinople.
In addition, in Mesopotamia, the
"urks claim to have dispersed the
Russian wings which were endeavor
ing to carry out an enveloping move
ment against them near Khanikin.
northeast of Bagdad, but Petrograd
asserts that the Russians here have
addition. il Turkish positions
to the saber several ijnt-
talions of Turks.
The Germans and the British tire
still fighting desperately in the vi
cinity of Ypres, both sides using their
artillery in heavy bombardments and
their infantry in occasional attJicks.
In an infantry attack against the
ruined village of Hooge. east of Ypre.
Any program ; the Germans succeeded in capturing
um- of war! the "i itish front line trenches run-
in piactically unnoticed probably be
cause a majority of the delegates did
pot even know them by sight. Chaun
cey Uepew was surrounded by a small
admiring group. Senator Penrose got
a leSfpliou from his own delegation I
Governor Whitman was recognized by I
some but on the whole the convention
was mor- interested in wondering what
was going on in the Auditorium than !
it was in the arrival of the men.
The hour for assembling was set for
11 o'clock but there was no semblance
of order at that time and no one made
any pretense of securine it. The dt-j
eg&tes stood about the floor, ant
talked, the spectators overflowed into
the spaces reserved for the delegates j
and hundreds of seats on the floor and I
in the galleries were empty. Finally I
Chairman Hilies gave signs of calling
the convention to order and the uni
formed police began moving about
urging the delegates into their places.
Finally, at 11:21 o'clock Chairman
Hilies brought down the gavel, wjth
three resounding whacks, and quiet
settled down over the big hall.
"The hour of 11 o'clock having ar
rived and a quorum being present.'
Warren (i. Harming.
I CALLS
FDR RELIEF IN
KEYNOTE SPEECH
politicians who do not riak- estimates
unless they are based oii etreful can
i vass of the delegates. The situatltntyis
I illustrated best by the fact that con"-"
;feiences between leaders to discuss the
availability of different candidates
practically have ceased, indicating their
belief that a majority of the dele
gates already have reached a decision
I to name Justice Hughes.
Convention observers find it impos
Isible not to be impressed by the confi
Jdent predictions of these leaders wh"
! say that the Hughes boom now baa
grown to such formidable proportions
that Colonel Roosevelt no longer holds
I the veto power which until tills after
noon had been conceded to him as
part of the program to bring the re
publican and progressive parties into
; accord.
j Four days of constant and persistent
i effort to bring the two parties to
jgetfcer, in which the personality of tie
man had been subordinated to harmony
: failed to bring the results desired and
; the trend from the outset was defi
) nitely toward the nomination of Jus
1 tice Hughes. Had Colonel Roosevelt
I announced during this period that he,
I would not support the Justice, the
leaders were prepared to turn to any
; one of the regular republican candi
dates. The colonel remained silent.
however, and because the managers ot
other candidates had fostered the
Hughes boom for the purpose of elim
inating Roosevelt as a possibility it
grew prodigiously and even a combina-
, tion of the favorite son strength was
Wire ! powerless to check it. The reason for
i plea for i this Was that the candidacy of no
progress
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 7. National pre
paredness "in spirit, arms and indus
try" is the dominant theme of the pro
gressive party's platform, of which a
tentative draft was completed tonight
tion and developments of national re
sources are urged.
The platform declares that the pres
ent situation makes an issue of men
rather than works and closes with the
declaration that the progressive!) "Will
by the resolutions committee appointed meet any party who sees the national
at today's session of the convention. It
breaks party convention platform rec-
irris for brevity, and consists of
broad statement of conditions facing platform draft:
need and nuts forward a leader fit
to meet it."
Following is the text of the tentative
and remedies needed by the national
rather than the usual formidable ar
ray of separate planks.
Ah to preparedness the platform de
clares for a navy second in the world
nrmadas, a standing army of "aO.OOO
men, and "universal opportunity for
military training under federal super
vision
and "social justice" as in 1M2 plat
form art- reafirrnetl "full political suf
frage" is endorsed; a permanent, ex
port tariff commission, protective tar
iff, regulation of industries, conscrvu-
I his is the year ob decision for the
nation's future. As we now decide, so
we shall go forward in righteousness
and power, or backward in degrada
tion and weakness.
Of necessity, we deal now with the
foundations of our national life. We
that does not i.nvolve social and eco
nomic security in time of peace is false
to the needs of the nation's life, and
arouses suspicion as to the good faith
or intelligence of its advocates.
"The great nations now at war have
developed an organized co-operative
Industry, capable of economic produc
tion, unprecedented in the history of
international commerce. To meet these .f
new economic weapons in the markets
of the world, American industrial life
must undergo complete reorganization.
The old wastes must be eliminated and
the old methods transformed. America
must lie equipped to hold her share
of the world's trade. The old log
rolling devices of special interests'us
ing tariff schedules as a public com
mission for private plunder are as de
structive to national welfare as they
are intolerable to the national con
science. We must speedily prepare to
Ideal with these problems, particularly
with that of the tariff, with a scientific
non-partisan machinery of govern
ment, functioning for the commercial
advantage of all the people.
I "We believe that the need and op
portunity of the time is such that per
sonal differences, partisan bitterness
Iting through the v illage.
attacks elsewhere failed.
but all their
ing for republican relief the speaker
leasing a remark made j e,re undertaking to discuss political! tTttrt hTwi
I resident McK.nley this ; ,ssues. appealed to the delegates oa,,(H1, 3ft0 vts on Ule first
said he. "the convention will be in
order Para
by the late
is a year--whatever may have been
true of past years when politics is
patriotism and patriotism is politics.
(Continued on Page Five)
I Republican A. P. Leased
CHICAGO. June 7 With
party re-union for reconsecration rath- other republican made any
or than recrimination. Cnited states : :ind delegates pledged to fa vorite sons
Senator Warren G. Harding, of Ohio,
in his address as temporary chairman
opened the republican national con-
vention here today. Asserting thai
(the country was 'wearied afresh by a
disappointing and distressing demo
cratic, administration." and was call-
,'. .,,,.! .(..it . I HAM)Um
I .... I I1U .,11.-. i . . i . i . , :
but Justice Hughes to whom they can
turn their strength. Justice Hughes
thus naturally became the choice of
practically all delegates instructed for
others. They became eager to go to
him as soon as they could secure rc-
. ........ u. ,. ... i lease from their pledges.
The Hughes managers tonight nut-
ha ve
the first ballot-
forget differences which divided the 1 Frank H. Hitchcock, spokesman for the
party in 1H12. j Hughes followers, said thene would be
Relerring. to the administration s j no attempt to nominate the justice on
(Continued on I'age Two)
(Continued on Page Four)
Harding Pleads For Harmony
. Robins Starts Pandemonium
i
Germans Ma'e Gains
LONDON, June, 7. --British tremhes
running through Hooge have bcn
captured by the Germans, according
to tin Rritish official statement is
(Continued n Page Six)
Progressive
Committeemen
Are Selected
are lacing elemental tacts of force of and local nretndicex should be surren-
Social and economic reforms a,,u "'Y"8' BIlreTOe national ', dcred to serve the nation's highest
"" out proem enoice or path will good. We should not he parted by mere
be irrevocable. The tradition of isola- I names, however dear, nor by past re
tion has been ended. The Cnited .States ; gerltments, however justified.
is now part ol a world system of civi-
(Contlnued on Page .Nine)
'But we should solemnly warn till
(Continued on Page Ten)
fRepnblican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 7. National Com
nrtteem"n and members of the com
mitter on resolutions elected at cau
cus of I he various progressive state
delegations yesterday and today in
clude :
Arizona national committeeman.
W. O. Huttle; resolutions, V). B. Heard.
Colorado: national committeemen.
RentHinit) Griffith; resolutions, K P.
Costigan. f
New Mexiio: national committee
man, Miguel A. Otero; resolutions,
Francis C. Wilson.
Tctas: national committeeman. 11.
(Special to Tbt Republican)
CHICAGO, 111., June 7. Reconsecra -lion,
rather than recrimination a plea
for harmony and party reunion was
the keynote of the speech of Senator
"Warren l I larding, of Ohio, tit the Re
publican National convention today.
This speed), which occupied about an
hour and a quarter in delivery, was well
constructed and highly polished, but
failed to arouse aviy degree of enthus
iasm. He approved national defense,
saying that security is economy, prom
ised prosperity in return for a pro
tective tariff, pledged for a merchant
marine, attacked the government for its
"watchful waiting" and wobbling war
fare and stated that business is never
loo big to be good and useful,' nor
too small to be protected and encour
aged. Raymond Robins bad read less than
a page of his keynote speecli as tem
porary chairman of the progressive
convention, when he mentioned the
name of Roosevelt and for an hour and
thirty-five minutes pandemonium
reigned.
The demonstration surpassed the
Hons sprang to their feet, and surging
into "the aisles joined the enthusiastic
procession which, with state and spe
cial banners went up one side, crossed
the stage, stopping sometimes to greet
Raymond Robins, George Perkins or
Victor Murdock with u hearty hand
shake, then down to the auditorium
again in a cheering, unbroken line.
Many and varied were the banners -
; pictures ot lionsevelt "Teddy will
j not pussyfoot." "America for Ameri
j cans." "T. R. a lf-ader, not a trailer."
j "Roosevelt carried Michigan In 1912
1 by 60.00(1: this year we will give him
wants Teddy;"
ltMt.oitO;" "Tex
" hy take chances, wi know what
Roosevelt can do:" "If Teddy wer
president, where would Villa he"
And on the North Dakota banner was
pictured Roosevelt's pioneer cabin.
The enthusiasm of the convention
threatened to continue indefinitely,
but finally exhaustion and the chair
man's gavel prevailed and Raymond
Robins went on with his speech, which
was a sincere and eloquent appeal to
the men and women to keep the faith)
(Continued on Page Three)
I.. Bohb n;
idge.
resolutions. K. M. Other-
Urges Roosevelt To Attend
In The Interest Of Harmony
Republican A. P. Leased Wire lyoM and the republican convention now
CHICAGO. June 7. Former Senator : assembled. I therefore most earnest
j Jackson of Maryland, republican na- j ly urge you to come to Chicago tmaeed
I tional committeeman from that state, lately to address thl convention and
,IA . y,.ntt f . , ... , ,i. ..iiii. jwysc.tjn at . to UMUVG t OII1II1UII fU I1SC HI (JUT HI' II OCT -
. ... ... ru out an ,,i jji,,- (lVrt Ar U.,v toni,lit nrtrina him tr, , ..o... -
f,t-.-o.r- vwnvt-Mtioiis ut lour jeai'S ago. .1,;..,. ; ,1,., ;,,,,..., ... b,. ..
Delegates and spectators stood on
chairs and shouted and yelled, waving
hats and flags. All efforts of the
chairman to procure order were use
less. State and club songs, cheers,
music by the band, chants of "We want
Teddy," "We'll Hav- Teddy," echoed
and reechoed through the great flag
draped room.
One after another the state delega-
and announcing he would do his ut
most in case of tin acceptance to have
Mr. Roosevelt given the privilege of
convention floor.
Mr. Jackson's telegram reads:
"The national interest demands tiie
CO plots reunion of the republican par
ty which was unhappily divided in 1912.
1 believe this can be accomplished hy a
more perfect understanding between
If you will indicate your will
ingness to take this course, I will use
my utmost endeavors to secure for
you the privileges of the convention
floor."
Message Not Received
OYSTER BAY. N. Y.. June 7. Col
onel Roosevelt said late tonigh' he had
received no message from ForrrYr Sen
ator Jackson. He declined to discuss
the question of his going to Chicago.
