BBLWIMIMbbbbbbbbbbbbbbR-B-I???
H ibLH
H bbI
1 1 ws fci prices TfviiAiYWt ftrWrh- 4 p- 'Mm I
I , New York. June 88llver. 66 1c; )T Tv L "'' T WEATHER-UUh: Fair Tonight H
1 .lead, $6.95; spelter, not quoted; cop- f -, PH
I per, $28.0029.25. " " and Friday; Slightly Warmer Tonight. jM
1 ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' - ! fl
I Forty-slxth Year-No. 137. Price Five Cents. - OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 8, 1916. Entered as Second Clan Matter at the Portofflco, Oodcn, Utah, LM
RUSSIANS CAPTURE AUSTRIAN
FORTRESS AND SEVERAL BRIGADES
I .
Austrian Lines Broken and Forces Withdrawn Twenty Miles
! Throughout Lutsk Sector Fifty-eight Officers and 11,-
000 Men With Large Amount of War Material
! Taken Germans Capture Fort Vaux
j Furious Fighting Continues.
i m
i London, June 8, 3:04 p. m. The Austrians have evacu
ated Lutsk, one of ihe Volhynian triangle fortresses, according
to information received at the Russian embassy in Rome, says
i a Central News dispatch from that city. Several brigades of
i Austrians are reported in the advices to have been captured
( with the fortress. It is stated that the Austrian lines have been
broken in Volhynia and they have been withdrawn nearly
twenty miles throughout the Lutsk sector.
In addition to the Austrians previously captured in the
l offensive movement recently inaugurated, the statement says
there were captured in yesterday's fighting 58 officers and 1 1 ,
; 000 men. A large amount of war material also was taken.
I Lutsk is the ape;t of a triangle of fortresses whose base
; line, extending from Dubno to Rovno, lies to the southeast.
These fortresses were captured by the Austrians last fall after
long and severe fighting during in which Lutsk changed hands
several times.
1
2 Loss of the 2G,000-ton battle cruiser
; ! Lutzow, one of the German warships
1 which the British claimed to have
sunk in the Jutland sea fight last
week, is now admitted by the German
admiralty, as is the loss of the cruis
er Rostock, of 4900 tons.
i Paris today admits the loss of Fort
Vaux, northeast of Verdun, but as-
sorts the French still hold the out-
' skirts of the fort and trenches on
both sides of it.
Paris, June 8, 12:01 p m. Heavy
' fighting continues in the vicinity of
j Fort Vaux, northeast of Verdun. The
; ' war office report of today says
; French-troops stllloccupythe out- '
skirts of the fort as well as trenches
to the right and left of the works.
j The loss of the fort itBelf, of which
f it an intimation was given in last night's
report, is conceded. Tho announce-
' ment says the fort was abandoned by
; tho garrison after it had been reduced
! to a heap of ruins by an Incessant
', f bombardment of seven days. German
: attacks on the adjacent positions thus
far have been unsuccessful.
; ', West of the Mouse Intermittent can
' ; nonadlng was carried on last night
i ' The text of the statement says:
J II "In the Argonue a German mine
If exploded this morning at Hill No. 285
if at Haute Chevauchee, but without
1 causing us any damage. We occupied
the southern tip of the crater thereby
created.
J ( "On the left bank of the Meuse
there has been an intermittent bom-
J ; ' bardment of our second line positions.
$ 'r On the right bauk there has been In-
j tense artillery fighting in the region
; ' of Thiaumont and Douaumont.
.Fort Vaux Is Lost.
I i I "After seven days of ferocious
jr ; fighting against assaulting forces
i whose numbers were constantly re-
newed, the French garrison at Fort
$ 1 Vaux reached the limit of its strength
I f and was not able to prevent tho en
JS I emy from occupying this position,
m which hud been completely ruined by
B j a furious bombardment. We hold the
i Immediate surroundings of tho fort as
y : well as the trenches to the right and
B ' to the left of it. In front of these
I M every attack delivered by the enemy
M '- has been broken by our fire."
I i "The night passed in relative quiet
I I on the remainder of the front except-
II f lng at llartmanns-Weilerkopf, whero
V 1 the artillery fighting continues with
jl activity."
5 I
T Constantinople, June S, via London,
til S, 3:45 p. m. The Russians who fell
' back recently in the face of a Turkish
flj 1 offensive west of Erzerum, Turkish
t Armenia, have again taken the ag
Jjl I gressive. assaulting a height that was
3 In Turkish hands. They were driven
rt r, back by the bayonet, however, and
fl ; forced Into their former positions, ac
jM cording to today's statements by the
5S Turkish war office.
Sm l The statement says:
M "HnupnsuB front: In the center tho
m J enemy tried to .take a height that was
B I in our hands. Our reserve drove him
mM f off by bayonet attack and forced him
H back into his old positions.
HF' "The Russians, who approached our
51l! positions on thlB heaght within 400
lj metres, suffered great losses in killed
flll and wounded."
If; London, June 8. 10:57 a. m. An al
MM Hod air squadron has successfully
1' bombarded the wharves at Hoboken,
Ik near Antwerp, according to a dispatch
Ik to the Exchange Telegraph company
WW from Mnostricht. The Germans are
M, bald to have boen building destroyers
wMi at Hoboken. The squadron was fired
Hw on by German batteries but returned
K to Its base safely.
w
B Fighting With Unabated Fury.
BK Berlin, June 8, via Loudon, 4.40 p.
I m A KlIlteraent ssustl today by
mm. army headquarters says:
mm "Western front: The artillerj' duel
Bin on both sides of the Mouse (Verdun
mm front) has continued with unabated
Bill- lury." '
-1 HI "Eastern front: South of Smorgon
I H German reconnolterlng detachments
1 wB lresaed forward over soveral enemy's
1 IbI "nps a,,(1 in, lho Ullage of Kunawa,
skWm d.eBtrojing lighting establishmeutB
BBW t- JijBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBa
thre and returning with forty prison
ers and one machine gun.
"On the rest of the front occupied
by German Iroops there Is nothing to
report "
Strict Blockade of Greece.
London, June 8, 6 15 p. m. It was
announced officially today that restric
tive measures affecting Greek ports
wore being considered "to prevent
supplies from reaching the enemy."
Certain precautionary measures af
fecting Greek shipping are under way.
Press dispatches from Cardiff say
that port officers In Wales have been
fnntructed to refuse clearance to
Greek vessels.
oo
WILSON FINISHES
PLATFORM DRAFT
Principal Plank Declares Suc
cess in Safeguarding U. S.
Honor and Keeping
Peace.
PREPAREDNESS POLICY
Support of Policy of "Ameri
ca First" and Merits of Fed
eral Reserve and
Other Acts.
Washington, June 8, President Wil
son today practically had completed a
draft of the platform to be submitted
to the Democratic national convention.
The principal plank. It is said, will
consist of a declaration of the admin
istration's success In guarding the
honor and interests of the United
States and at the same time keeping
the nation at peace. Specifically, tho
foreign affairs plank of the platform
will praise these acts of the admin
istration: Protection of the neuti'al rights of
the United States and other nations.
Refusal to allow the country to be
drawn Into the Mexican Internal
troubles, and prompt dispatch of
troops in pursuit of raiders on Amer
ican territory.
Maintenance of the Monroe doc
trine and fostering good relations with
other nations of the western hemis
phere. Support of the policy of "America
first"
The planks on domestic affairs will
refer particularly to the merits of the
Underwood traffic act, the federal re
serve act and the ndmlnistration's
preparedness plans.
oo
HENRY M. WHITE
TO SETTLE STRIKE
San Francisco, June S. Henry M.
White, deputy commissioner of immi
gration at Seattle, who was appoint
ed federal mediator in the strike of
the Pacific coast longshoreman, ap
proximately 9,000 of whom walked
out June l, in an effort to get higher
wages and a "closed shop" policy, was
lo meet representatives of the steam
ship companies and strikers here to
day in an attempt to reach a settle
ment The meeting was cheduled f6r
yesterday but was postponed when It
was found that the officials of the
union, who were to represent the strik
eis at the session were without au
thority to enter any agreements.
One lumber mill closed down at
Coos Bay, Oregon, yesterday because
of the shortage of steamers result
ing from the strike and another
planned to cease operations today.
The Kruse and Banks ship yard on
Coos Bay will shut down before Mon
da, it was announced because of its
inability to secure ship timbers.
IS IN CHICAGO TO PUT HUGHES OVER I
Frank H. Hitchcock.
While the movement to nominate Justice Hughes for president has
been more or less spontaneous, it is now well known that Frank H. Hitch
cock, postmaster general under President Taft, has been working in-
cessantly for many weeks to secure Mr. Hughes' nomination. No other
I man has been so active in the judge's behalf. Mr. Hitchcock is now in
Chicago. Justice Hughes declares, and the former postmaster general ad
mits, that he is not working in Mr. Hughes' behalf at the latter's solicitation.
ROOSEVELT MAI
GO TOJICAi
If Republicans Desire, Colonel
Will Address Convention
in Chicago.
ROASTS WILSON
Service of Administration
Most Evil One That Could
Be Rendered a Great
Nation.
Oyster Bay. N Y., June 8. Colonel
Roosevelt says he will come to Chi
cago "If the Republican convention
desires me to address it." This he
announced today in reply to the Invi
tation ho received last night from
Senator William B Jackson of Mary
land asking him to come to Chicago.
The colonel declared in his answer
that he hoped both the Republicans
and Progressives would nominate a
man who, if elected, "would place this
nation where it belongs by making It
true to Itself and therefore true to
all mankind." President Wilson, he
said, had "rendered to this people the
most evil sorvice that can be rendered
to a great nation."
Colonel Roosevelt declared that the
"differences that have divided not
merely Republicans and Progressives,
but good Americans of all shades of
political belief, aink into
nothing when compared with the is
sues now demanding decision .
The Issues of unified Americanism
and national preparedness.
No Excuse for Being Supine.
Colonel Roosevelt further declared
that "In tho face of the awful world
catacylsm this nation had stood su
pine and helpless and that no excuse,
now .made by those responsible for
this Inaction, is entitled to serious
consideration. It Is for you and your
associates to show the people that
they have a worthy alternative to
which to turn."
"Can we not," ho asks, "forgetting
pa.st differences, now Join for tho
safety and honor of our country to
enforce the policy of genuine Amer
icanism and genuine preparedness?"
Colonel Jloosevelt's reply to Senator
Jackson follows
"In answer to your telegram I can
only say that the matter lies with the
Republican convention and that If
the convention desires me to address
it I shall be glad to do so
"I very earnestly hope that the Re-,
publicans and Progressives assembled
at Chicago will keep steadily in mind
the gravity of this crisis, not only for
America, but. for tho world and the
need that their action In dignity, fore
sight and patriotism shall rise level
to the crisis. I hope that the aim will
be not merely to nominate a man who
can be elected next November, but It
man of such powerful character,
steadfast conviction and proved abil
ity ha if elected he will again pla.ee
this nation where it belongs by mak
ing it true lo itself and therefore true
to all mankind. President Wilson,
however amiable his Intentions, has
rendered to this people the most evil
service that can be rendered to a
great democracy by its chosen leader
Nation's Conscience Dulled.
"He has dulled the nation's consci
ence and relaxed the spring of lofty
national motive by toachlng our peo
ple to accept high sounding words as
the offset and at one moment for
shabby deeds and to use words which
mean nothing in order to draw all
meaning from those which have a
meaning It will be no easy task to
arouse the austere self-respect which
has been lulled to slumber by these
means To this task we should bend
our united energies in the spirit of
Washington and Lincoln, the spirit
of democratic leadership.
"The differences that have divided
not merely Republicans and Progres
sives, but good Americans of all
shades of political belief, from one an
other in the past, sink into nothing
when compared with the Issues now
demanding decision, for these issues
are vital to the national life. They
are the Issues of a unified American
Ism, and of national preparedness. -If
we are not all of us Americans and
nothing else, scoring to divide along
lines of section and national origin,
then the nation itself will crumble
into dust.
"If wo are not thoroughly prepared,
if we have not developed a strength
which respects the rights Qf others
but which Is also ready to enforce
from others respect for its own rights,
then sooner or later we shall have to
submit to the wil of an alien con
queror. Supine In World Cataclysm.
"For two years In the face of the
awful world cataclysm, this action4has
stood supine and helpless and has not
in the smallest degree prepared itself
to ward off the danger. No promise,
no excuse now made by those respon
sible tfor this inaction Is entitled to
.serious consideration. I Is for you and
your associates to show the people
that hey have a Worthy alternative
to which to turn.
"The professional among Ameri
cans, acting through various agencies,
including so-called German-American
alliances, are at this moment serving
notice on the members of your con
vention that your action must be tak
en with a view to the Interests, not
of the United States, but of Germany
and of that section of the German-
American vote which Is antl-Amerlcan
to the core.
Contempt For Alliances.
i believe with all my heart that
the action of these sinister profession
al German-Americans will be repudi
ated with angry contempt by the
great mass of our fellow citizens who
are in whole or in part of German
blood and who, as I well know arc
unsurpassed in rugged and whole
souled Americanism by any other citi
zens of our landv But the profession
al German-Americans are seeking to
terrorize your convention; they wish
to elect next November a man who
shall not be in good faith an Ameri
can president, b.ut the viceroy of a
foreign government It Is for your
convention In emphatic fashion to re
pudiate them. This can be done In
effective manner only, if such action
of the Democrats, Republicans and
Progressives who are true to the prin
ciples of Andrew Jackson and In
dependents In short, all loyal Amer
icans, join in the effort to reach the
goal we all have In view.
Pleads For Americanism.
"Can we not, forgetting past differ
ences, now join, for tho safety and
honor of our country, to enforce the
policies of genuine Americanism and
genuine preparedness? Surely we
can afford to act In accordance with
the words of Abraham Lincoln when
he said 'May not alb; having a com
mon Interest re-unite in a common
effort to save our common country''
May we ask those who have not dif
fered with us to Join in this same
spirit toward those who have not?
"As far as my soul is known to mo,
it is in this same spirit that at this
time I may make appeal to Republi
cans and Progressives assembled at
Chicago. (Signed) Theodore Roose
velt Republicans Against Colonel.
Chicago, June S Colonel Roose
velt's telegram created only passive
interest among Progressive leaders.
"The Republicans won't invite him
to address them" Governor Johnson
commented laughingly.
"Why the Republicans are even
afraid to have Roosevelt's name men
tioned in their convention" said Geo.
von L Meyer.
oo
TWO TICKETS
ARE FORECAST
Both Republican and Progres
sives Discount Success of
Harmony Talk Between
Two Parties.
Delegates Decide to Proceed to
Nominate Hughes Without
Regard for Any Third
Party.
Chicago, June S. As political lead
ers gathered for the second day s
sessions of the Republican and Pro
gressive national conventions it be
came more and more apparent that
there would be two tickets in the field.
Victor Murdock, chairman of the
Progressive national committee, sum
med up the whole situation when he
said today
"Well, we left the door open and
the Republicans don't secin to be corn
ing in."
Republican leaders too. discounted
the success of the peace talk saying
that aetion had been delayed for so
long that a majority of the Republi
can delegates already have decided to
nmo.pp.d without regard for anv third
party and nominate Hughes, to whom
the most support has been, gathered.
Roosevelt Urged to Come.
There are some among the Progres
sives and among Roosevelt Republi
cans as well, who still believe that the
colonel himself could save the day if
he would come to Chicago Represen
tative Gardener of Massachusetts, who
was defeated -for Republican delegate
atrlarge from Massachusetts on a
Roosevelt ticket, pleaded with Pro
gressive leaders to bring Colonel
Roosevelt on without delay Word
came from OyHter Bay, however, that
Colonel Roosevelt had received the
telegram from Republican National
Committeeman Jackson of Maryland
sent yesterday urging him to come
here in the interest of harmony. While
tho colonel nnnounced it was not his
present intention to accept the Invita
tion, he would make public his reply
later, and he did not indicate what
its tenor would be.
The Republican nomination for
president probably will bo made in
tho Coliseum tomorrow but It Is not
expected the convention will adjourn
before Saturday. Ostensibly the con
vention will be prolonged to give more
time for deliberation for nomination
than is usual for second place, but
the real purpose, It Is believed is to
avoid adjournment before the Progres
sive convention has acted.
Progressives to Nominatc-Saturday.
The Progressive convention probab
ly will not nominate before Saturday.
There will be only a few hours of ses
sion today and that will be devoted
to platform making and other routine.
The delegates are confident that on
Saturday they will name as their tick
et Roosevelt and Johnson, their stand
ard bearers of four years ago.
While there has been little discus
sion of Republicans of vice-president
possibilities, considerable talk was
heard, today Indicating that there
might be concentration on either
former Vice President Fairbanks of
Indiana .or former SnMnr Burton of
Ohio.
PLATFORM ISSUES OCCUPY BAY I
AT REPUBLICAN CONVENTION I
IbbB
Woman Suffrage, Mexican Situation and Discussion of Pro- IH
hibition Plant Forces Delegates to Wait for Full Commit- H
tee Reports Depew, Cannon and Borah Make H
Characteristic Speeches Compulsory Military H
'Service Plank Defeated. IH
Coliseum, Chicago, June 8. At 1:31
o'clock the Republican national con
vention recessed until 4 p m. to await
the report of the resolution's commit
tee which was still working on the
platform.
The convention was in session about
two hours and did nothing more than
perfect its permanent organization
and listen to some speeches.
Dissenting reports on tho woman
suffrage and Mexican planks have
been carried to the full committee by
the sub-committee and the convention
was forced to wait while the commit
tee discussed these measures.
Chaunccy M. Depew, former Speak
er Cannon, and Senator Borah made
speeches to occupy the delegates while
it was wailng for the report of the res
olutions committee.
Coliseum, Chicago, June 8. The full
committee on resolutions of the Re
publican national convention did not
resume its work until 11 o'clock when
it Immediately entered upon the sub
committee's draft of platform.
Much interest centers about the
declaration dealing with affairs in
Mexico owing largely to the fact that
he members of the sub-committee de
veloped differences on the question.
The provision adopted by the sub
committee in addition to its censure
of the Democratic administration of
affairs In Mexico, calls for protection
of American lives and property, not
only on the Mexican border alone,
The platform specifically calls for
legislation against child labor and
just as specifically declares for gen
eral workmen's' compensation legishf
tlon and for legislation for the com
pensation to the workmen engaged in
'the federal service. There Is a plank
devoted to merchant marine in gen
eral terms and another calling for the
conservation of American resourecs.
but the latter is modified so as to re
quire that such conservation shall not
bo so administered as to interfere
with the utilization of the resources
by the people of the country.
Committee Approves Woman Suffrage
Committee approval of woman suff
rage by a vote of 26 to 21 was hailed
with joy in the suffragist ranks.
A call for absentees an hour later,
however, was Interpreted as indicat
ing a possible re-consideration of the
suffrage plank which a sub-committee
had rejected before the main body
upheld it
Prohibition as a party plank was re
jected without the formality of a roll
call and an effort to put the Republi
can party on record in favor of a war
munitions' embargo was voted down
with only one vote cast in its favor
Honest Neutrality Plank.
A neutrality plank in support of a
"strict and honest neutrality" with
all nations was adopted.
The Mexican ouestion came up for
much discussion and it was thought
that the committee would decide on a
plank broader than the Fall provision
which promised protection to Ameri
can citizens along both sides of the
border , ,
A plank was inserted in the Repub
lican plaform affirming the Republi
can position that the Philippines
should be kept under the guardian
ship of the republic until its citizens
should be ready for and capable oi
self government. The plank denounc
ed the Democratic party for its wil
lingness to cut the Islands adrift and
give them Independence.
The proponents of the plank for uni
versal military training failed to ob
tain the insertion of their plank by
a vote of 19 to 23
Joseph G. Cannon, former speaker
ofUho house of representatives, visit
ed the committee room but took no
part in the discussion.
nn
TOBE ARBITRATE!
MEXICOTROUBLE
Differences May Be Settled by
an International Commission
South Americans
Interested.
Washington, Juno 8. Arbitration of
differences betweon the United States
and Mexico through an International
commission today became a posslbil-
ity.
Diplomats, particularly those of Cen
tral and South American republics,
were much Interested in Information
that administration officials are con
sidering seriously proposing such a
courso to General Carranza, If they
definitely decide ,to suggest this, it
would be sent as the United States'
answer to Carranza's last note. Ac
ceptance would thon depend upon tjio
de facto government.
Commission IVIay Be Named.
Under the treaty of 1848 between
tho United States and Mexico tho
presidents of the two nations might H
appoint an equal number of commis- H
sloners, to whom could be submitted H
all the vexatious questions arising out IB
of relations between the two coun- "jVjVB
tries during the past few years. H
Among these might be: B
Withdrawal of American troops B
from Mexican territory. B
Indemnification for American lives Wk9m
lost and property destroyed or dam- B
aged during recent Mexican revolu- B
B
Disposition of customs revenues col- B
lected during the American occupa- B
tion of Vera Cruz and now held in the KWM
United States; and claims for proper- IH
ty damages growing out of the Vera H
Cruz incident. IH
Long pending disputes concerning B
the exact location of certain portions B
of the international boundary. H
The commission probably would H
meet in some SSuth American country. H
Whether President Wilson had H
reached a final decision on the ques- H
tion of proposing arbitration to Gen- H
oral Carranza was not indicated to- H
B
Mexican to Be Extradited. IH
San Antonio, Texas, June 8. An- ' H
tonio Rocha, alleged bandit, charged m
with being implicated in the murder M
of Flligono Cuellar, a deputy sheriff in y-WM
Hidalgo county and also the murder i ILH
of Curtis Bayies, an American rancu- BH
man near Mercedes, was shot and cap- ! IH
tured by Mexican soldiers opposite ( H
Mercedes In Mexico and taken to jail H
at Matamores today. H
An effort is being made to hav9 Ro- H
cha extradited and brought to Texas H
for trial." H
Calexico, Calif., June 8. Governor H
Esteban Cantu of Lower California, at mLM
Mexicali, opposite here, in a decree IH
made public today, prohibits the sale H
except for medicinal purposes of opi- H
um, morphine, cocaine and other H
drugs throughout Lower California. H
Officials of the Mexican state con- H
ferred recently with officers at San H
Diego, Calif., concerning traffic in H
drugs at Tijuana, Mex. The Amer- H
ican authorities made particular com- VWM
plaint against opium dens at the Mex- vM
ican border town. j H
Columbus, N. M.. June S Two H
companies of New Mexico militia will H
leave for Deming today to report for H
duty in connection with the hanging H
of two Columbus raiders scheduled H
to lake place tomorrow morning in JWM
the yard of the Deming jail. Adjutant V-WM
General II Herring will command VM
the militiamen and upon arrival in mkm
Deming will dispose of his troops H
about the city and jail to prevent H
demonstrations against the doomed H
The Roswell battery of New Mexico. 'j-WM
comprising one hundred and thirty- H
three men and four officers will be WW
mustered 'into the federal service hero H
today. H
Captain Charles M DeBremond is in JM
command of the battery. H
HAMPSHIRE FOUND I
Private Secretary to Earl M
Kitchener Among Staff 9M
Members Picked Up No M
Survivors Found. M
i mU
Thurson, Scotland, June S, via Lon- i H
don. Several bodies from the cruis- H
er Hampshire on which Field Marshal j H
Earl Kitchener and members of his H
staff were lost arc boing.brought here. j H
Among them is that of Lieutenant- B
Colonel O A. Fitzgerald, private mill j WM
tary secretary to Earl Kitchener. H
There is no confirmation of rum- H
ors that some burvivors of tho Hamp- H
shire have been found. I H
oo BB
Hi AT M : I
JAIL IS BE I
Word was received at tho sheriff's H
office today that Angelo Schenone, M
the Italian taken into custody Tues- wkm
day on suspicion of being demented. JB
has a brother, Joseph Schenone, in jH
Modesto, Calif., and that he is able M
to take care of him. H
Deputy Sheriff J. L. Hobson has H
wired the brother for advice as to H
what to do with his brother. Mr. H
HobBon says thoro is no question in H
hiB mind now but that tho man is IB
Insane, as fellow Italians, who have IB
talked with him, say ho claims to B
have been mentally disturbed the B
past-three years. B
BBH
