Daily Average
for May, 1916
ITABUSHED 1868.
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, THURSDAY" EVENING, JUNE 8,1916.
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
BRINGS TRADE
TWO TICKETS
Adjournment Will Not Occur, However
Until the Progressives Have Also
Fixed Upon a Ticket
HUGHES STILL l?l? CANDIDATE
Some Delegates Continue to Believe That Roosevelt Can
Win If He Will Go to
Chicago.
(By Associated Press}
CHICAGO, June 8.?As political leaders gathered for the second days ses
sion of the Republican and Progressive national convention It became more
apparent that there would be two tickets in the field.
Victor Murdock chairman of the Progressives national committee summed
up tho whole situation when ho said today "Well we left the door open and
the Republicans don't seem to be comling in.'*
That was the progressive leaders reply to inquiries as to whether there re
mained any prospect for harmony and whether there-was likely to be ap
pointed today conference committees representing both parties to receive
and pa3s upon peace suggestions.
Republican leads too discounted the success of pease talk, saying that ac
tion hail been dolayed for so long that a majority of the Republican delegates
already have decided to proceed without regard for any third party and nomi
nate Justice Hughes to whom the most support has been gathered.
There are some among the Progressives and some among the Roosevelt Re
publicans as well, who still believe the Colonel could save the day if ho
would come to Chicago.
[ Republican Garduer of Massachusetts who was defeated for Republican del
egate at large from Massachusetts on a Roosevelt ticket pleaded with Pro
gressive leaders to bring Col. Roosevelt on without delay. Word came from
Oyster Bay however that Colonel Roosevelt had received a telegram from
Republican National committeeman Jackson of Maryland sent yesterday urg
ing him to come hpre In the Interests of harmony. Whllo the Colonel an
nounced It was not his present intention to accept the Invitation he would
make public his reply later and he did not Indicate what his teno^ would be
The Republican nomination for President probably will bo made In the Col
iseum tomorrow but Is it not expected tho convention will adjourn before
Saturday. Ostonslbly-ttie sessions wlirira prolonged'to^ve'iiflafrV^iiniberttte '
consideration than is usual to a nomination fM second place, but tha~ real
purpose It Is believed Is to advoid adjournment before the Progressive con
vention has acted.
The Progressive convention probably will not nominate before Saturday.
Thei will only be a few hours of session In that convention today and that
will be devoted to platform making and other routine.
The delegates are confldent that on Saturday they will name as their tick
et Roosevelt and Johnson their standard bearers of four years ago.
While there has been lltte real discussion by Republicans of vice Presiden
tial possibilities and it Is recognized that geographical conditions Kid polit
ical expediency will govern. Considerable talk was heard today Indicating
there might be concentration on either former Vice President Fairbanks of
Ind., or Former Senator Burton of Ohio.
Nothing will be settled as to the vice presidency until the head of the tick
et has been chosen.
ALMOST HALF HOUR
LATE AT COLISEUM
Temporary Organization
Becomes Permanent
Other Business.
(By Associated Press)
?COLISEUM, CHICAGO, June 8.?
The convention was called to order
after much delay and conference. It
was Just 11:22 wlyyi Chairman Hard
ing brought down his gavel. His call
for order brought nlmost imraodiate
response and the aisles were order
el cleared. Chairman Harding asked
the convention to rise while Monslg
nor Francis G. Kelley read a prayer.
The convention Btood in silence as
he read.
Chairman Harding was ready to go
on with thd next business but the band
began "Rock of Ages.,' When through
the first bar, however, the band lead
er saw he was out of order and stop
ped.
Mr. Harding then called for the re
port of the credentials committee. Sen
ator Smoot, chairman, came up on the
platform to make the report and tfas
greeted with applause. The report
recommending the seating of 987
delegates was read by the Senator
wttth a list of decisions in contested
cases. It excluded two delegates from
the District of Columbia, admitted two
each from Alaska and Hawaii. The
report of the credential committee
was unanimously adopted.
The commltteo on permanent or
ganization reported in favor of mak
ing the temporary organization perma
nent. It was adopted unanimously.
Permanent Chairman Harding receiv
ed an ovation and thanked the conven
tion for the honor.
Finally the report of the rules com
mittee was ready and National C\n
mltteeman C. B. Warren, of Michigan,
presented it It was a unanimous re
port. Briefly the rules of the con
retitlon are those of the House of Rep
resentatives with certain modifica
tions to adopt them to the needs of
:bo different a body.
The report of the resolutions com
mittee was the next order of business
but the chairman announced that with
tithe arbltray authority which goes with
Jfoe favel he would appoint former Sec*
retary Stimson and Speaker Sweet of
New York, to escort Chauncy M. De
pew to the platform.
Bowing and smiling Mr. Depew took
his place while delegates applauded.
This was taken to mean there was
a delay in bringing in the resolution
report. Some of the delegates shout
ed "Speech" and Mr. Depew began
and talked for thirty minutos.
There were calls for other speak
ers and after Chairman Harding ha4
restored order he introduced former
Speaker Cannon as "Grand Old Un
cle Joe." Without the celebrated
black cigar, "Uncle Joe," bowed and
smiled.
The resolutions committee still was
at work and the speakers devoted their
efforts to killing time.
"Chauncey," said Uncle Joe, turn
ing to Mr. Depew, "I am coming to
your 100th anniversary." The crowd
laughed.
"We fell out from the personal
standpoint largely four years ago,"
Raid Cannon, "but there is not going
to be any further falling out because
this convention will nominate a worthy
ticket and it will be elected. This year
we'll have no shiboleth from anybody,''
he said, "The country's bigger than
any man or set or men.
Senator Borah was next called for
a speech and when he concluded a re
cess was taken until 4 o'clock.
Old Mill Property
Will Be Repaired
Mayor Anthony Bowen, representing
the City Board of. Af fairs *in company
with Marcellu8 Joliffe, visited the Old
Mill property on Jackson street, cor
ner ot Cleveland avenue, this morn
ing and went through the premises
thoroughly.
The building, according to the may
or, is much better and stronger in
side than it looks to be from the out
side. A few repairs, he says, undoubt
edly will work wonders on the prop
erty and Mr. Joliffe has agree^, to
many suggestions along that line.
To have asked Mr. Joliffe, the may
or thinks, to tear down' the property
would be a little too much; but he is
of the opinion that sooner or later
Mr. Joliffe wil tear it' down of his
own accord.
The Board of Affairs will not stand
for any repairs that do not have' the
two-fold effect of making the property
lesB of a fire trap and of putting it in
more sightly condition. The Board
states that the building Is not as claim
ed, unsanitary. Further investigation
into the mnttpr will be made next Mon
day.
Prominent Women Battle for Suffrage-at Chicago Convention!
... w
AMONG THE WOMEN IN THE LIM E LIC
SION IN CHICAGO. ABE THE ABOV E ?VTO.
<'3,
.pTlIE'SECtlETARY- OF'TUB Rtt
) MRS. '"MYRON T. HERRICK. WIFE
?ibE Tfu...?'THiiimrriirTririTTwriT _
SION IN CH1CAUO. AKta THE Arsy? eT^GOfOTWRDI^OToFAiW )?!?. ?J?m ?.? n.w???~?~
A'r-,uoH'r/ mr&
L. B. GLEASON; BELOW, MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT. . , ' - ' ' V i\\ ?
TO fiO TO CHICAGO
But the Republican Conven
tion Must Send Invita
tion.
(By Associated Ptcm)
OYSTER BAY, June'8.?Col. Roose
velt will go to Chicago if "tho Repub
licans convention desires jno to ad
dress it." This he announced today
in a reply made to the invitation he
received last night from Senator Wil
liam B. Jackson of Maryland asking
him to come to Chicago.
The Colonel declared in his answer
that he hoped both the Republicans
and Progressives would nominate a
man who. if elected, would "lace this
nation where it belongs by making it
true to Itself and therefore truo to all
mankind. President-TVilson he said
had "rendered to this people the most
evil service that can be rendered to a
great democracy."
Intermediate Court
To Adjourn Soon
???,T k
'Judgment was entered today In the
Intermediate court by Judge G. A. Vin
cent In the case pf First National hank
of Falrrlew, against- W. B.iArnett. for
the sum of >3,030.09: J.' X. Meredith
represented the plaintiff In thie mo
tion. Adjournment of the present term
of Intermediate court will likely he
early next week. A number of di
vorce proceedings arc pending but no
decrees were granted today.
Trials of J. R.: Linn, ; Howard W.
Showalter. Mrs. Elizabeth Yasco and
John Tctan were all postponed today,
alopg.with th* remainder of the felony
eases or.> the criminal: docket of:the
circuit court,' until the November term, j
The civil; docket, also was postponed j
u^tU Setomber 18, at which time, a/spje- <
cial term .of jcourt will be held for the I
disposal-.oJ^thlfl,business. '
This action was. agreed upon this!
raoiTiing^aj?thejj^enlng^of the circuit'
court" wiren"judge'.wrsrHaymbnd^a5i-.'
nounced -that his-physlpal condition
was such"that"thV'doctors^had*told'hRh
it would, be, yeiy d(ingerou8. for hjm: to
attempt'; to occupy ,the bench to heat
any jlotfg criminal /trials. The iqu^s
Uon of electing a special judge To oc
cupy the bench until Judge Haymond
was able to return-was placed befor6
the. members oft ho bar present but all
were unanimously in,favor of/continu
ing tlie'do"cket until the" riextYerm. ' '
? Because of:the^fact'.that.th:euxnajor
ity of the prominent attorneys who
might be able to preside %s judge, were
all more "oFsleSs Interested In one or
more of the case'B on the <Srlmtnal or
civil dockets It was decided .to hold no
election and'tq,dlamis? thejurors who
appeared this "morning .'until" the, spe
cial term of September-18. The civil!
cases that reauire ury,trials will be dis-!
posed of *t.that time .and; the crli^l^al
cases thatj^equlre jury trials wilVbe dis
of the November term on^the second
Monday In November.
Dead Ones to be Dropped From
the West Virginian 7,000 Club
Today the list" of members in both
districts of the West Virginian's Sev
en Thousand Club show big gains In
votes, and many of those who formerly
hugged close to the bottom ahow that
they have awakened at.laBt and are
going to make the votes fly between
this and Jnyl 8 when the 13,200 In cash
and merchandise awards will be die-,
trlbnted among the active membors of
the club. ? \
Many of the old workers are cam
paigning harder than ever this week
with a view to making the most of the
big subscript ton offer now In - force.
The fact that a ballet for 60.000 bonus
votes will be given free with each club
of five yearly subscriptions j makes -It
worth while' to work this week If you
Intend to work at all. The Welt Vir
gin Ian gives ? It's absolute,guarantee
that never again will -thore be more
votes offered for subscriptions than
right now. I- . ? .
And the rewards are worth while
irorking for. Ranging from an.auto;
mobile down to diamonds, planoOl
talking msichlnes, "etc.; 'even thj leaft"
of them Is worth thefew,wAeSs,jaeaf-.'
ant spare time work that members of
the club are called upon to put forth.
The feature that makes the plan of the
Seven Thousand club especially at
tractive to most members is the gtljtr
?I n'i-lk-Jy a?
,1 - (Continued on page ?)r
NO CRIMINAL COURT
f/ivra NEXT N^WSMBER
' ' - * -???-. t -.1 : i ;.
Civil Docket Is Postponed Until September 18^-Judge
Haymohd's' Health Makes:This-Action ^ :
v" ? Y/i' . -/ t,f r i j jw' ' ? * j '?
? ; r; Imperative. . ?>?* j-.:.. i ? ? 11
: ; K Ik'-:: 1 ' 'ti ? r ? f' ? ? f m- ?-*> ?
| Judge (Haymdnd;*; announced that
| for* the J?aat ftfur'mohth's "he" had been
affiletei-with-boi 1 s andxarbuncle'a ana
that *thp}physiciansjhad advised^hlm
th&tutbejse^e^physlcal and merkal
strain which; could be. caused, by]Che
hearing.uaJL!a_long; tedious "case 'would
likely weaken him so that his. retire
ment 'from Hhe'bench" would' benecea
5arj;. The 'Judge further said:thatf if
his 'rt)ij?ntlbh-{ did : not improve he
world be'compelled-to resign from the
bench. t. .' ? j
^The.ccujtjs.iJl.remaln op.ep until'the j
end-of the-present week-and a number
of minor ordfers to^clear upythe unfln- j
'ished^cl?ancery and law^business that
1b na^Jp"is8yerwlll,be. completed by
the judge before the adjournment for
th'e.tSrml & l.? S - Ll/J- ... "
iiiiir
STATE! BIRTHDAY
v. -;
President'W6o3ro*w" Wilson will be
asked by t^o West Virginia Chamber
.of Commerce to speak via phone to
the dlriers'it a banquet to bo held In
Charleston June 20 in commemora
tion of the flfty-tbird birthday of West
Virginia. This dinner will be con
nected by' Bell Telephone to several
smaller dinners to be given at'Hunt
ington, Grafton, Martinsburg and sev
eral otfier cities.'
?Many oltlee in-West Virginia have
and eact one will be connected by
phorie with the parent dinner at Char
leston. The service which is being
given to the various. Boards of Trade
and Chambers of Commerce through
out'the state 'will' be.the rb^st possible
and.will-be'furnished by the Bell tele
phone, company. ,, ., - . .?
with the'several dinners connected
by'plione; lr.wlirbY possible for those
dining In their "own'hoirie' towns to
listen to a. congratulatory speech hy
President Woodrow Wilson. * >?.fV!
The; Fairmont ? Chamber of Com
merce is-la session this atfern'oon try
ing to arrange tor a fitting celebration
for that date on which West lVrgiuIa
become it mil oHi"?*'." ' vf lj<
LUTHERAN SYNOD
? 11 MEET HERE
?" r Tt " ? ?
Fifth Annual Conference
Was Held This Week
at New Haven.
iRey'. H. A. Kunkle, M. A. and W1I.
lfam H. 8tanhagen represented GracQ
Lutheran church .of this city at the
Fifth annual-conference of the Luth
,ej*an .synod\of West Virginia which
was . held; in ;St? Paul's Lutheran
church at.'New Haven,.W. Va., Tues
day and Wednesday of this week. The
local delegates returned this mornina
and report that while the weather was
inclement on the days when the synod
?sat 4t did ;not dampen the ardor of
the/ members present or prevent the
people of New Haven from attending
the.sessions.
Thp opening service on Tuesday
morblng" was conducted by Rev. J. H.
Keyser, the pastor of St Paul's church.
The' president of the conference, Rev.
H.'F, Baughman, of Keyaer, W. Va.,
formally opened tho conference and
introdtr&tl'ihe speakers. The theme
for-dt isslon was, "The Work of the
Minis i". (1) "His Relation to the
Local'oiiurch Organizations." by Rev.
H. L. Crissman. Being absent, his pa
per was presented .by the pastor loci.
(2) "His Message," by Rev. H. A.
Kunkle, M.A., Fairmont (3) "His
Patoral Office," by Mr. C. C. Qnegey,
of Oakland, Md.
At the public meeting, 8 p. m., Presi
dent F. Baughman preached a stir
ring sermon on the theme, "The Value
of Human Life," based on I Cor. 6:20.
Wednesday morning the program
was as follows: Theme. "The Church."
(1) "The Church and the Home," Rev,
W.' L.~HeUser; Clarksburg. (2) "The
Church and the School," by Rev. 0.
Crimean, Wheeling, and William H.
Stanhagen, of Fairmont.
Wednesday afternoon the following
was the order: *(1) "Church Loyalty,"
by Rev.~H.. B. H*. Sloop, of Oakland.
(2) "Business Methods in Church
Work," by Rev. J. L. Marvin, Eglon
?tonr^Wr-Va. ?-? ~ .
Th"e otflcers'were re-etectod as fol
lows: J Rev. .H, F. Baughman, presl.
dent; Re.v. 0. ;H. Bremer, vice presi
dent: * Rev) flcjK.- Young, 'Srecretary
treasnrer. ;*Next conference meeting
will be-'h"?W-at Fairmont.
I ? \'? Y )
The Weather.
West Virginia?Probably showem
tonight and- Friday.
LOCAL WEATHER READINQ8.
. ,s - F. P. Hall, Observer.
| Temperature at 8a.m. today -62..
Yesterday's weather rain; temper
ature, maximum 66) minimum 51;
precipitation' JO,"
I Wilson Ran Ahead
Ticket On the Preference
Ballot.
Although the County cuun wilt
busily engaged today and tomorn
making tlieir official canvass of tl
Primary election returns In Marli
county, yet so far as tho genera) 1
torest of the public Is conceriigOTfiM
election Is over and the resultsT mm
as this county is concerned ger
ly known, tho estimates in yest<
West Virginian being in every lr
approximately correct. ;-31,
Good feeling and unity in supp
tho candidates that have secured t
nomination in the Republican I
prevails even among (he dafffiCSL
didates that engaged In the hardd
fought of the friendly contests, F
cvory thinking person who partlci_
ed In tho Primary comes th& emphati
endorsement of the prlnclpleXotlmjK
primary method of gocurlng party can
didates in preference to thejbldjc
volition mothod. Some of the oM,4t|L_
ionod - Democratic party leaftm wbo
were strongly In favor of the boss sys
tem for the reason that they ,Wtrt th**'-:
bosses and directed tho proc?dar?^(&p
choice of tho party from behind the
scones aro disgruntled and sore. Th
worthies say the primary vlsV'??
ing," "much dosplsed
able," and that the machinery
counting and" safeguarding of the bal
lets Is too complex, that th?;w[
expense of holding a prUnarj
tlrely too great for the TjMuItf j|
fflimsd. .Those peftons; howi
bQ heartily In'favor, of abo!
oral electlohd also if they
wbuld bfc In'better iJosltion
the administration. ? ?*
The general opinion in this county
among the more enlightened Is tjiat
tho Primary is a great stepS"'*"?
conserving the sovereignity of f
plo nnd the preservation ot'T
ty of the Individual. This*!)
first two-party primary ever M
the county, the election official#!?
others in charge of the 1 " '
the machinery of tho election H.
a certain extent handlcapp^'T
unfamillarlty with the pro$
the law which wos chiefly : ?
ble for the delay in ascertaining
mMHMHHL?
The candidates nominated ? on the
Republican ticket are all strong and
popular men as Is shown by t!ia?Vfc*
they received The surprlslni$|2i^
turn out of the Republican ?ote in
dicates that this county wit) go. solid*
ly Republican at the NovemborfOlr^
tlon. The Democratic caridldatjtett
ing particularly active Just before th?
primary brought out a much greater
percentage of the entire Democratic
vote than was brought out il
publican party, the contests o?? their
ncKci ior me county oinces 01 i
and assessor being particuli
and still the cause of palnfi
ie8 among the supporters of b
er and Smith and Davis awft?
The support of the Democratic
bosses being given to QloveefSj
vis brought out Buffld^tjjyo
faithful following to nominate
men. The most bitter ofjthi
cratic fights for any of the ?
flees occurred in Fairmont!
where six candidates fought -.
two nominations for Justice ?ti
Peace. 'Conaway and Musgi
In this battle and deft
Thomas and Fleming .
One of the/ peculiar facts!,,
brought out by the totals^offtf^
In this county Is that Wood J?
for president received :a$
ber of votes even than enjr >
the candidates on the D?
ticket for the nomination!,,
there was no contest. '?y&gB
On the Republican tlcfcetfiflM
total vote'In many lnstances,b
out the fact that many persons h
voted for the offices in'4wtiQSa^^^^
test was held. Evldenily,?iaa&y of the
voters tired of marking the *?
lets and thinking
would be elected ariyway^c
mark the ballot fot- them.
Following is the total"vol,
ion county for each ofiU&lq
in the nominations whftkfc
tested on both the 'Repub
(Continued op Pas* 3
Loyal Temperance Legion Meetin
The Loyal Temperance Legio -
meet on Friday afternoon st SSL
at the First Baptist chvut^lAU l
bers are urged to be present
? PERSONALS MENT?
Miss Edith Ha
yesterday from New York whei
attends the Cathedral r
den City, L.; L/^SJie^S
summer vacation with
Mr. and Mrs. T.-Wg*
onl avenue.
Mrs. Henry Mdlflgan of' Boydsi
street Is spending tne day with
daughter, Sistar|~
burgh.
