BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 191G.
jy00 MBER50.
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
ONE HOUR AND 33
MINUTES
APPLAUSE
GREEISU'SNAI
jMammoth Demonstration for
Former President Breaks All
Previous Records for Similar
Events.
HARMONY MARKS MEETING
Jnitial Session of Progressive
National Convention Brings
Doubt of Leaders' Ability to
Prevent Roosevelt Stampede.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEBURY.
LoHoy Nelson Shaokott illoil early
Sunday morning at the Mary Fletcher
hosiiltnl after nn lllnes. of live luyn of
blood poisoning. He wan born In Brut
wirt, February 1, 1S!7, the son iiT I'eter
anil Louise (Dnpree) Shackctt. He la
survived by his wife anil Infant child,
his parents, two brothers and three sisters.
of Now York city Is In town for n few
days' visit to bis mother, Mrs. J, E.
Htittolph. Mr. nnd Mis. Elijah LaBounty
have gone to Camp Comfott, Hlvorsld-!
farm, where they will spend the slim
mer. Mrs. Carl Moreloek and daughter,
Caroline, who liavo been visiting at tho
home of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. II.
Smith, have returned to Jamaica I'lalns,
Mass. Street Commissioner .lames Mr
Gllnchoy and a. force of men nre building
u cement walk on Seymour stroet which
runs through the underpass, Valentine
Flood, golf expert of the Ardsley Golf
club, who hns been lit the llread Loaf Inn
A note! wi'ddlnir took lilneo nl the
Methodist Church parsonage at eight lliylnK 0,11 " K"lf ,m,n""' lmK "'I'lcted
nVlrwk l.Vldnv cvonlnir. when Mr. ' wnlk ,l'J returned to Ills holllo.-
Amella l.i.Bounty of Burlington and Mic,,nel 1,,llnln ,in returned from the
B. O. Brown of this town wore man led by
Dr. I. II rotkran. Mr. nnd Mrs. Brow
li'lt on a sliort
thev will resld
meeting of the Missionary society of tha
Congregational Chinch was held at
Fanny Allen hospital at Wlnooskl, where
he has been undergoing treatinent for
rt honeymoon, niter which 1" '"'Vs.-Dr. Many Williams Hums ar
e In this townThe annual 1 1 lvt'(t f""" I 1 1 ' re Satutday night. He
has not yet made his plans for the future
Miss Belle Hnenn of l'roctor Is spend
the homo ,if Ms. pr!U1,t Knn.vnni, ln a few day.ttlth Miss Ada Smith
Chicago, Juno ".The progressive na
tional convenllnn opened In the audi
torlum to-day with a record-breaking
fiemonstratlon for Colonel Itonsevelt.
For one hour nnd S3 minutes tho dele
gates and spectators rout nil, shouted,
rheered and appluudeil. They sang the
progressive battle hymns, paraded the
Blsles nnd over the stage anil howled
down all attempts to cheek them. The
Coinnnstritinii exceeded tho previous
Record frr such affairs of one hour and
)a minutes established In tho democratic
Jnnvontlon In Penver In V.H In behalf
)f William Jennings Bryan, which had
exceeded by four minutes the record
tnnde that same year In the republican
convention In Chicago, when Colonel
Jtoosevelt's supporters sought his nomi
nation over William Howard Taft.
Raymond Robins, temporary chair
man of the convention, had bpoken Just
three sentences of his keynote speech
when he mentioned Colonel HoosoVelt's
name. A wave of enthusiasm that
amounted to nothing loss than a
paroxysm resulted. "The foremost citi
zen of tho world," was the characteriza
tion Robins used in connection with his
mention of the colonel's name. The re-
Hponse was Instantaneous. "We want
Teddy" roared the delegates, and the
demonstration was on. With umbrel
las raised they began marching about
the hall.
Chairman Robins made several at
tempts to quell the denionsttntlon. hut
after a few raps of tho khvoI gave It
tip, The band chimed In with tho pro
prcsslve battle hymns and soon the
pinging crowd was trumping tho aisles
to thf strains of ''Onward Christian Sol
dlers,"
Then the band switched to "Marching
Through Georgia" and a medley of popu
lar airs and tile aisles became so blocked
tha' no one moved for several minutes,
"W bile the marchers stood still in tho jam
thev kent un the din. and after It had
teen going on ono hour George W. Per
kins left tho stage and decided to go to his
lintel and wait for It t subside. The Midi
lean delegation tramped In from the rain
nntuifle nnd their loaders demanded an
outdoor demonstration.
"Teddv Is not afraid of tho rain." they
shouted, "get out nnd inarch." And In a
body they tiled from the hall Into tno nei
uge outside chanting "Teddy, you're I
Lear."
Meanwhile scouts came In with tho re
port that the republican convention at the
Coliseum had adjourned and had not been
marked by any special enthusiasm, Their
arrival was the signal for another out
hrcak Chairman Robins finally gave up
bo envel and took up a "big stick." The
ciowd caught the point and began to iiuiet
down.
Finally at 2:37 o'clock Mr. Robins re
Fumed his speech after lulling the leaders
that he would not risk mentioning the
coirnel's name again. During the ie
reminder of his address there were out
bursts and demonstrations but they were
Hhort.
The only suggestion of discord came
rvlth a movement against tho selection of
Walter Brown of Ohio as permanent
chairman. Those behind It wanted to
present Governor JoTmson of California
In Rrown's place. The Governor quickly
pent word that he would be a party to
no discord. That ended It.
Tho announcement of temporary com
mittees followed and tho first day's pes
Flcn of tho convention was over. Tho
prediction that tho leaders would not be
ablo to hold their delegates from tha
nomination of Colonel Roosevelt at the
mention of his mime had not materialized.
Mow long they will be ablo to control
them, however, Is conceded by tho pro
pressive leaders themselves to be doubt
ful. An abstract of Mr. Robin's speech fol
lows: SPEECH BY RAYMOND ROBINS.
Times of stress and ferment bring tribu
lation to tho weak and opiortunlty to
- the strong. Tho souls of timid men nro
vexed and tho hearts of tho valiant nro
uplifted. Four years ago bravo deeds
wero done In Chicago. From every ec-
Hon of this country thero gathored hera
men of loadcrshlp and character disre
garding tho ties and associations of n
llfotlmo, oven of generations, willing to
Kicrlflco power and Influence nnd friend
ships, tho profit of lives of Industry
nnd honor In order that thoy might unite,
with their fellows In splilt to bring a
now forco, n now Impulse, a new hopo
Into American politics. They enlisted
for public service behind tho bravest and
wisest leader of tho pooplo In our tlmo,
behind tho foremost private citizen of
tho world, Theodore Hnorcvolt.
Tho need of progressive thought nnd
leadership and courage is oven greater
In America to-day than It was In 1012.
What Is our dominant problem to-day?
To protect and preserve our government.
( an the people bo amused to protect
nnd prcsorvo a government which Is not
i f and for all tho people? With what
dngau shall tho ruthless and tho selfish
Individualist rally a thinking people
filial! It be," "Arm to defend my Imp-
Tiusday afternoon at thiee o'clock
Charles J. Hullnck has returned from
Montpeller, whole he nttcndrd tin
Shriners' meeting. I'rof. 1'. N. Swctt will
icprescnt Mlddlohury College at the open
ing of the new buildings of the Mnsu
cliusetts Institute of Technology thll
Week. Word has been leeched of the
innirlage of Miss Clarlnda M. Clark, :i
former resident of this village, to Joseph
Marclano at Waterlmry. Conn., on May
21. Mr. and Mrs. Marclano will mak
their home In that city. Carson II. Bean.
of Decatur, 111,, a giadunte of Middle
bury College In 1W, is visiting In town
Mis. Annie Wnrden has opened i board
Ing house at Lake Diinmore for tin s-uni-
mnr. The Ladles' Aid sooletv of th
Methodist Church held a ?ucees-ful food
mle at the store of George ".. Marshall
on Saturday and netted u good sum.
Mis. llattle Banning has returned from
Veigennes, where she has been to visit
her sister, Mrs Frank Bntrows, mil
family for two weeks. Clayton Rtittolp'i
William I.. Fold, who lias conductei
ImmosH making business hero for thteo
years, died at two o'clock Monday
morning at the Mary Fletcher hospital.
lie was taken 111 last week Tuesday
night with appendicitis while uttcmlitr;
a pictuie show nnd on Sunday was taken
to the Mary Fletcher hospital in litir
llngton, accompanied by Dr. R. W.
I'lentlss. Owing to the acuteiiess of his
condition an operation was performed in
about a half hour after h's anlval at the
hospital, but he did not rally from the.
opointion. Mr. Fold was about SO ycats
of age. lie leaves a wife and a youiw.
daughter. The remains wen- taken to
his former home In Hartford, wheie the
I'uneial scrvbes and burin1 were held
Wednesday. Mls Laura A. Goodrich,
who had been 111 for more than a year
at her home on Court street, died Sun
day evening, aged about I'.v. Miss Good
ilch, a long-time resident of this village
(Continued on Pace two.)
MILD ENTHUSIASM
ON OPENING DAY OF
G.O.P.GQNVENTIGN
First Session at Chicago Lasts
Just Two Hours and Lacks
Demonstrations or Outbursts
of Any Kind.
DELEGATES SING "
Senator Harding, Temporary
Chairman, Scores the Admin
istration and Declares Repub
licans' Allegiance to Protec
tive Tariff.
IK WILL BE NOMINATED UN THIRD
BALLOT, 1 1 REPUBLICAN LEADERS;
DENY ROOSEVELT HOLDS VETO POWER
All Efforts to Establish Harmony with Progres- f p N A Y
sives Have Failed Roosevelt and Governor
Hiram Johnson of California Will Constitute
Ticket of Latter Party, Say Forecasts
Justice Hughes, It Is Said, Will Not Allow
Prospect of Party Split to Weigh in His Con
sideration of Accentance if Nominatpd. Teutons after Weeks of Terrific
Onslaughts Take Outpost
Five Miles from Ver
dun Fortress.
SURRENDER FORT
VAUX 10 GERMANS
C0MGREGHTI01LISTS MEET TROUT CLUB DINNER
lilllemli'ii County oeliitloii to Ask ' l.nke Miinstlcld Club" Annual IVnst
f.'iiveriKir (intc to ('miNliler Aliol- I'.iilen liv I'-'! 1.'. I'iiuiiiIk Con
IslihiK .11 IIKIii'm Sunday Utile I sinned OIVicerM Are l.leeted.
I'rnetlee.
j Stowe, June 7. The annual meeting
Westford, .June 7. Tho amiti.nl meetlne and trout dinner were held to-day by
of the Chittenden County Association of 'aku Manslleld Trout club. One
ongrecatlonal Churches closed this eve. ! hundred and twenty-four sat clown and
nlng after n two days' meeting, which pntinds of trout wore served. Dr.
was one of the most Interesting and ' Hrigham, Dr. D. I., liawioy oi
significant of recent vears. The offl- I Hurllngton, Dr. W. L. Wasson of Wat
ers elected were: Modeintor, the Itev lerbury, James McKay of H-trre, and
H. II. Harnum of Jericho; treasurer, M- H- Kiddell of Darlington were ro
ll. S. Howard of Hurllngton; registrar, 'elected directors for three years. Dr.
the Rev. Charles Wattle of Richmond. Hrigham was re-elected president, M
A resolution was adopted asking the ''. I.ovejoy vice-president, O. K. J.ueu
Governor to consider, with a view to- 1 secretary and treasurer. C, I.. Mc.Ma-
wards Us abolishment. the recent 1 hon, M. C. I-ovejoy and 0. D. Hurt were
meetings of the State militia on Sun- ! elected auditors. The treasurer's re
lay for target practice, with especial port showed a balance In the treasury.
reference to the company composed of 12x-r.leut.-Unv Frank Howe of Ilen
Tnlverslty of Vermont students. Among nlngton, the Hon. Frank I'luinley and
.lie most Important business of the If. A. I'lumley of Northflold, Dr. 1'. 12.
neetlng was the ailoptiou of a susten- ' McSweeliey, II. C. Ilumplirey ,aud C.
..itlon fund, which If favorably votel I-2dward Irving of Hurllngton, I.. T
Mlion by the several churches will raise Downer of Hnrdwlck, II. C. Mc.Mahon,
tho minimum salaries of ministers In '). 1-2. Litre, M. f. Lovejoy, II. 12. Shaw,
the county to 1W a year. The netiC A. Itlley. all of Stowe, and J. M.
meeting will be held at tho First Churcli I Wood of Knston, were ainong those
In Hurllngton.
The .Wth anniversary of tho landing
of the rilgrlms at PI. -mouth Hock on
December Jl, 1620, which marks an
epoch In tho religious life of America,
will be commemorated In lining man
ner by the Congregational Churches. If
the program designed to cover the iicm
live yeais Is cairled out. Among the
unusual features of this program nre:
that the churches have not less' than
one-half million members; that an In
creased number of young people of
character and ability be led to take up
Christian llfo work either through the
ministry or In other llelrts, and that be
fore December 31. 1K.D, the churches
meet their full apportionment for the
Various missionary enterprises. Tills
program was adopted bv I he association.
The Hev. Frank II. Hodgdon of Huston
gave an eloquent
present. .Mark Huslincll of Hartford
Conn., traveled 35$ miles to be pres
ent. Largo delegations from Mont
peller, St. Johnsbury and Harre were
present.
HIT ON HEAD MP ROBBED
HiMi i. IInIit Allocked III Itiillroiiil
urd nl Diilnlli mid Hegtilneil Cmi
HciotiNiiesY hi .Minneapolis.
Montpeller, June 7. ICx-Mr.yor J. 15.
Kstee and his son, Hush C5, I2steo, whr
disappeared mysteriously a week ag i
from Duluth, Minn., are expected to ar
rive In the city to-morrow from Chicago,
whero the former went last Snturday to
lilress concerning i "ll,'t his son. Mrs. Lsteo has received -i
the annuity fund for Congregational letter from her son In which he sivs that
ministers, by the teims of which min- wnR crossing the fielght yards near
Mir, ,llelu ,1 llllllti .ellntl in l-r 1.11 ne
Isters after years of activity will re
ceive ppO a year. Tho Rev. Willinm
I-2wlng of Roston also spoke on tho
world-wlilo missionary work of tho
church.
Among those who addressed the asso
ciation were the Rev. Charles Wattle of
Richmond, tho Rev. S. fi. Harnes of
Hurllngton, the Rev. David H. Strong
of Milton, tho Rev. Frank W. Heming
way of lllnesburg, the Rov. C. B. Hay
ward of Wlnooskl, J. B. Colburn and
Arthur S. (lallup of Hurllngton. Tho
annual sermon was preached by the
Rev. Clifford H. Pmlth of Hurllngton.
the head and robbed. lie found himself
two days later In M'nneapolls, He was
probably thrown Into a freight car and
carried to Minneapolis. He a once tele
graphed his paronta hore as soon as he
regained consciousness and made ar
rangements to meet his lather at Chicago,
INCREASE OF $300,861
QUARRY MAN KILLED.
John llllej- of Ilnrre, lilt !' I'nlHnK
Stone, IllfH on Opernllnc Tnlile.
Haire, Juno 7. John Riley, aged
vnnro n u.l.lnu e,v wna Klriiok 1)V U
III CustoniN IiniiortiitlonN, lull Drerense
of Sl,:i7.',7(i:i In l2xiorliilloiiH.
ht. Albnns, June 7. An Increase of
2iT,,w;4 in Importations and a decrease
of $l,37Ti,703 In exportation from tho
month of April Is shown In tho report
for May Just Issued by Collector It. C.
Comings of the Vermont customs ills,
trlct. The total Imports wero $3,211,172,
nenrly threo times the amount for the
corresponding month lust year, and the
exports wero J l,rfi,J03, over twice tho
stone falling from a denlck at tho Wet- m()UMt f()r jjny n-st ycnr T(e (p.ltL,s
inoro and Morse nuarry in wrnsicnniu (.0,,cted amounted to H,iUr.174, an in-
tins morning and died two nouis auer- ereaso of !i,3;H.9i over last year,
ward in the Harm city hospital, no i
(Continued on pnge thirteen.)
survived by his mother, Mrs. William
Riley, and one son.
DESPONDENT, TAKES LIFE
AUTO BOOK OUT SOON.
Ilrnttleboro
In
1'lrnt I2itlllon of Vermont ('lull's Venr
Hook tint 'lb It .Month.
Montpeller. June 7 President Lester
II. fireeuo of the Vermont Automobile
club Is preparing tho llrst edition of the
of club's year book which will contain tho
79 registration numbers of cars un to June
The book will probably bo Issued
Mini llnng lllmxclf
Vnrnnt Ilnrn.
llrattleboro, June 7. The body
Oeorgo Fletcher Hrackett, aged
irs, was found this afternoon nt 3:30
o'clock hanging by a rope from n beam the middle of tho present month.
In ft barn on Front street. The build- 1
lllg was miuacd except for storage RI'TLAND COFNTV W. C. T. II. MI2I2T.
purposes. Mr. Hrackett. who had, Utinnd, Juno 7.-Thete are 2f,n membeu
been mlssliif- from tho homo of his f , ., christian Temperance
son. Alonzo. since morning, was do-' Vn,01 , UutaIll, cmmty nccordlng to
spondent bccaUBO of continued 111 rc..olt. .,,. ... tho Mlh nnlllI11i county
health, nnu inaniiuy m om, convnntlon Ik.i.i nt wt Untlnnd Hantlst
Mr. Hrackett wns horn In Oreen church to-day. Tho convention passed
Rlvor and until seven years ago con- resolutions In fnvnr of nationwide pro-
ducted a farm thoro. He lived with a hlbltlon .mil n movement for bettor babies
daughter III Now Jersey six years and which shall affoct the whole country,
last fall camo to Hrattlnboro, He Is. There were addresses by Mrs. Minnie
survived by two sons, Alonxo and Hor- I.,. Poarsons of Oilcans, Hlato president,
bert of Ilrnttleboro, and throe daugli- who dlsi iissed prohibition, Mrs. lOinnia
ters, Mrs. H. A. Stanloy of Gardner, w. Avery of Mlddletown Hnrliigs. the
Mnss., Mrs. Jnines Illako of Jersey county president, Mrs. Margaret Heath
City, N, J., nnd Mrs. William Illgloy of Poultnoy and Dr. Mary H. Hhcrburno
of flullford, J of Rutland.
Chicago, June 7 The republican na
tional convention assembled In th"
Coliseum to-day, hoard a keynote speech
by Senator Warren fl. Harding of Ohio,
perfected nn nrunnlzntlon and adjourned
until eleven oYlock to-morrow morning.
It all took Jut two hom? and In Its
luck of demnnstintlon or outbursts of
any hind and Its strict attention to the
business In hand, was reminiscent of the
Philadelphia convention of lfieO that
nominated McKlnlev and Roosevelt.
For one hour nnd twentv minutes Setn-
tor Harding, the temporal y chairman, de
llvered a rarefully prepared speech,
punctuated In the telling points with
brief pel toils of hand clapping nnd ap
plause, but at no time did a domonstra
tlon occupy more than a half a luluutu
hy the watch.
The convention was twenty-live minutes
behind the hour arranged for Its assembly
when Chairman llllles of the lepnbll
enn national committee hrouglit down bin
gavel at 11 :2S o'clock. It moved iiuletly
and without precision until adjournment
at 1:2T..
Those of the old time leaileis present
who used to march down the aisles to
their seats to the tune of an uproar
walked In to-day nlmo.-t unrecognized
V. Murray Crane, Senator Lodge, Reed
Sjineot and a lot of the otbeis came In
pinctleally unnoticed, probably beeaif
a majority of the delegates did not even
know them by slaht. chnuncey Depew
was surroundi d by n small admlrlnx
group, Senator Penrose got a receptlo i
from his own delegation. Clove! nor Whit
man was recognized by some, but on tlM
whole the convention was more Intereste I
In wondering what wui going on in the
auditorium than It was In tho arrival ol
the men who hitherto have decided wh.it
tho convention should do with Itself.
The hour for assembling was set for
eleven o'clock but thero was no sembl inc
of older at that time and no one mndf
any pretense of obtaining It. Tho dele
gates stood about the floor and talked.
The spectators overllowed Into the
spaces re:-ered for tho delegates and
hundreds of seats nn the lloor and In tho
galleries were empty. Finally Chairman
llllles gave signs of calling the conven
tion to order and the uniformed police be
gan moving about urging the delegates
Into their places.
Finally at ll:2s o'clock Chairman llllles
brought down the gavel with three re-
Koiindlng whacks and quiet settled down
over the big hall.
"The hour of eleven o'clock having ar
rived and a iir.riim being present," he
said, "tho convention will be In order.
Paraphaslng a remark made by the late
President McKinley. this Is a year what-
ver may have been true of past years
when politics Is patriotism and patriotism
Is politics. Therefore the niidlence will
lease rise and sing two verses of Amer
ica."
Tho band launched Into the nlr anil,
led by n male quartette, the lloor and gal
leries joined In a mighty chorus that
swept through the big Coliseum. There
was a moment of confusion at tho end of
the singing as the delegates found their
seats again and then tho Rov. John Tim
othy Stono of Chicago rend a prayer.
Secretary Reynolds then read the call
for tho convention which was published
last December. It wns a formnllty. None
of tin- delegates wanted to hoar It so the
talked nnd moved about while Mr. Rey
nolds kept on That over, Chairman
llllles presented Senator Harding of Ohio
as temporary chairman and put tho ques
tion. A rolling chorus of "ayes" swept
the hall and former Senator Crane, Sen
ator Horah of Idaho, nnd former Repre
sentative W. H. McKinley were appointed
a committee to escort Mr. Harding to the
platform. The Idnho delegation an
nounced that iSenntor Horah wns unavoid
ably absent, so Mr. Crnno and Mr. Mc
Kinley marched up with Mr. Harding. His
appointment was tho slgnn! for the nrst
gonulno outburst of applause, but It was
brief, and he plunged into his prepared
speech, appealing for harmony, counsell
Ing tho delegates that It was not u time
for "recrimination but a day of reeonse
cratlon."
He spoke more than nn hour, referring
seldom to his manuscript and Interrupted
frequently by applause and cheeis as ho
criticised the democratic admlnlstrotlon
for Inefficiency, Incapacity nnd extra
vagance, and declared the Republican
paily's allegiance to a protective tariff
and national deicnte. no nosed Willi
peroration on Americanism nnd repnbll
canlsm, which was maiked with applause
lasting less thnn a mlnuto. The delegates
rose to their foet, some cheeied, some
hats were thrown In tho nlr and ther
was some waving of handkerchiefs but
they settled down quickly and the tern,
poriu-y chairman recognized In inpld
succession speakers fiom tho lluor who
offered the customary resolutions for per
feeling the temporary organization,
(Senntor Hiirilliig's speech in fun mnv
be found on page 13).
That wns quickly over with, tho meet
Ing places of the committees wero nn
nounced and at 1;31 o'clock tho convention
was declared adjourned until eleven
o'clock to. morrow morning. Tho delegates
plied out Into tho driving rnln, whero
they found one thousand automobiles pro.
Chicago. Juno 7. Morn political lead
ers are predicting the nomination of Jus
tice Charles 12vans Hughes to-night than
his nomination would almost ceitulnly
be made on the third ballot.
Many of the Hughes supporters were
e en more not lot bit I. iitnl u.,1.1 tVw.t-
nt any tlmo since the republican natlonul t,.(1UKMt mt tl,.for,, thl rpRuU f ,
convention began to assemble. They d'- second ballot was announced the drift
claro that unless ihe nccumulatlon of Wouid be apparent to all delegates and
overwhelming circumstantial evidence ' tller" u'oula '"'Kh changes of
, ,, , ., ,. ., . ., l" "ring nomination on t ie
falls to lellect the situation In lis t"!P ,.,.,, ,mll(lt
light the nomination of the Justice will ,,,, , . . ,
..., ....,... !,., I,u ,en m.wllrt- I "" '"'"""' U.MIVI I
ed. The men who take this view are prac
tical politicians who do not malic estl
onn, second on the roll of States, to
yield to New York so Governor Whit
man may place Justice Hughes In
nomination. At one time it was said
mntes unless they are based o.i care
..e ,1... ,lnl,,nlnj
Tin- situation is Illustrated hest by the AlUmnm ould yield to New York, but
fact that conference!! between leaders to ' ' I' u'-iogaiion was
ill-cuss the availability of different candl- '""" tw ... moic eanoi-
.i..ii.. i,n-.. .,i ii,,ii,.Ttim- dates, .Mid having no candldato to of-
1 f..t rii lil r. .. !.... i. c .. i i tt ntltnlnil t t-1 enn nt'c t h i f. --! n ti fnnn
il,.,l l,linf ilit ii mnlnrltv of tbn ile e- """ l"" " oeii ine Millie uaa i-........
gates alreadv have reached a decision to Cillltr'-
t...., !j.,.,i,.u ' When
London, Juno 7. Fort Vaux, lying
some live miles northeast of Verdun,
which for weeks past the French had
been stubbornly defending against ter
rific onslaughts by the Germans, has at
last fallen Into tho hands of the Teu
tons, according to Berlin. The men who
defended the fortress to the Inst sur
rendered to the Germans who also cap
tured a large number of guns, machine
guns and mlns throwers. An attempt
to relieve the fort Tuesday resulted In
the, enpturo by the Germans of 70) tin-
T. R. LOSF.fi T2TO POWI2R.
Convention observers find It Impossible
not to be Impressed by the confident pre
dictions of these leaders who s.iy that the
the Hughes tldo became ap
parent Into to-night many Inquiries were
made of those who are supposed to
speak for him as to whether his accept
ance, In case of nomination, would be in
my sense contingent upon a third party
Hughes boom now bar. grown to sucn tor- nomination by the progi eS,lves. The
midablo proportions that Colonel Roose-; answer wns that such a contingency
veil no longer holds tlis veto power which j would In no wise be taken Into consldera
untll this afternoon had been conceded to I ton ))V jJr Hughes.
him as part of the program to bring the
Republican and Progressive paries Into
accord.
ST12ADY TREND TOWARD HI'GHKS.
Four days of constant and persistent
effort to bring the two parties together
fn which the peisnnn'.lly of the nominee
was .snbordlnntod to harmony failed -o
bring the results desired and the trend
from the outset was definitely toward
MOOSI-2 WILL NOMINATE COIXlNEI
It seems practically certain that the
progressive national convention will again
nominate Colonel Roosevelt as their chief
standnrd bearer and It Is not nt all un
likely that Governor lllram Johnson also
will be drafted, so that their ticket will
bo the same lis In 1912 Roosevelt and
Johnson.
Many of tho progressive leaders argue
sa ys.
Pai is. however, says tho fort was still
In French hands early Wednesday morn
ing, but that since then It had been
impossible to communicate with the fort
owing to the violence of the bombard
ment. Gains of considerable proportions by
the Russians over the Teutonic allies,
by the Turks over tho Russians and by
the Germans over the Hrltlsh are record
ed In the latest official communications
from Petrograd, Constantinople and Lon
don. In the region of Verdun violent
artillery combats aro In progress, whlla
I on the Austro-Itallan lino the Italians
I continue to hold tho Austrlans from
I further advances.
In the fighting that Is going on from
rhe Prlpet marshes to the Roumanian
I frontier tho Russians In their big offen-
... I .. T,,t.l.. t-l.,.,1,.,.. Uo. I .i,. l. ...- ... sivo movoninni nine uisiuukc" iiiu
in e iiimiiiiitiMui "i ..... -...- ......,!..-. . . ,i, me., kuu- ie, i ii'ii.-n uLiier n.iii i'i 1 , , ... . . . . .
Colonel P.oosevelt announced during this an,o tholr former ticket, as efforts to omV , fro nJcI
period that ho would not support the reach an agreement with the republicans
Justice tho leaders were prepared to turn for n return to tho older party have f.ill-
to any one or the regular reputmc in
candidates. The colonel remains silent,
However, illiu nebulise me i im nn. i
other candidacies had fosl. red the Friday. Tho convention to-day having
od. The more conservative representa
tives of the Progressive' party hopo to
forestall action in their convention until
Hughes boom for the purpose of elim
inating Roosevelt ns a possibility. It grew
prodigiously, and even a combination of
the favorite sons' strength was powerles"
to check it. The reason for this was that
gone over until 2:"1 p. in. to-morrow, they
plan to occupy tho entire afternoon ses- i
slon If thoy ran with a discussion of a j
platform and other questions. The effort j
to dolay a nomination is because a few-
brought their aggiegato of men cap
tured up to about tl.eOO. They have also
taken 77 guns, 131 machine guns and 41
bomb throwers. Among the men made
prisonous nre Don officers.
As nn offset to the Russian gains over
tho Teutonic allies, however, Constanti
nople asserts that In Asia Minor, in the
Kope mountain district, the Russians
have been driven eight kilometers east
ward from positions extending over It
kilometers, suffering losses of more than
..rt.ll.lt.e nn i.llinr r.e.i ! hi ten II r ..f tl,A lr..,Hn,.a utlll ..nTncu .!.. .l...n t..
made any progress nnd delegates pledge 1 i some, prospect of reaching an 'agreement i t"usnd '"f killc(1 "r, V;m"n . T1,e
to favoiite sons found no other presl
dentlal possibility but Justice Hughes to
whom they could turn their stiongth. Jus
tice Hughes thus naturally became the
choice of practically all delegates In
structed for others. They became eager
to go to him ns soon ns they could eecure
release fiom their pledg s.
300 ON FIRST HALI.OT.
The Hughes managers to-night re
Iterated their o'alm that he will have
about three hundred votes on the tlrst
I tignting in mis lmmeoiato vicinity cov-
1 . . r A. l,nn ...U Um
ers II II OIll 111 u:i oi. inn.-;., n nil nm
with the republican managers
i i.,i r. l i..Nft AA.MUM-.n, I Turks the aggressors and with the situ
Nelther the republican nor tho progres- . ntlon favorablo to tliem, nccordlng to
slve convention appointed committees to- Constantinople.
day to confer with each other respect
ing peace plans as had been expected.
They may do so to-morrow, but there
Is opposition In both conventions to such
a course. Ruth feared difficulty In select
ing the personnel of any conference committees.
In addition, In Mesopotamia, the
Turks claim to have defeated and dis
persed tho Russian wings which were
endeavoring to carry out an enveloping
movement against them near Khanikln,
northeast of Hagdad, but Petrograd as
serts that the Russians here have cap-
Heforo the demonstration for Colonel tured additional Tuiklsh positions and
ballot. Frank II. Hitchcock, spokes- i Roosevelt In tho progressive convention put to flight several battalions of Turks.
man for the Hughes followers, said to-day it was suggested the party might Tho Germans and tho British nro still
there would be no attempt to nominate ; prime n candidate other than Colonel fighting desperately in the vicinity of
the Justice on the first ballot, nnd that j Roosevelt and that later if the repub- ' Ypres, both sides using their nrtillery
It was their desire to have all the j Henna named Justice Hughes and bis In heavy bombardments and their In
favorlte son delegates deliver their speech of acceptance proved satisfac- ' fantry in occasional nttacks. In an tn
coinplliuentary votes. lie believed. ' tory the piogresslve candidate could fantry attack against tho ruined vlllagfl
however, that the second ballot, with I withdraw In the Interest of harmony of Hooge, east of Ypres, the Germans
the release of many delegates from I and a united front to the Democratic succeeded in capturing the British front
their obligations, would swell the 1 party at the polls would be presented. line trenches, running through the vll-
Hughes vote to such proportions th.it Thin plan, however, has been abandoned.
vlded by Mayor Thompson's reception with an address of welcome by tho pas-
commltteo wnltlng for them. The com- tor of the local chinch, tho Rev. Clar-
mltteo ns.-embled In hotels nnd the resolu- enco A. Simmons, and n responso nnd
tlous enmmltteo returned later to the address by the Rev. Georgo I". Fortter
Coliseum to glvo n public hearing to any of St. Albans, State superintendent of
one who wished to suggest planks In the churches; addresses by tho Reverends
platform. The flint day's work was over W. C. Harvey of Hethel, A. N. Black
quickly, with everyone talking about the ford of Rochester. G. C. Boorn of Rut
placid, matter of fact wny things had land, G. S. DeLano, D. D., of Chester
ntaitod off. i nnd 11. L. Cautleld of Woodstock, and
All the temporary officers will become the occasional sermon by the Rov.
permanent olllcers when the convention I Henry A. Parkhurst of Springfield.
assembles to-moirow. That makes heua- The second day's forenoon session
tor Hurtling of Ohio pei inaiiont chair- ( was devoted to addresses by the Rev-
man. The motion to make all the tern- eiends V. M. Martin of Gaysvllle nnd
porary olllcers permanent was carried I,, ,, iwls of Ludlow, a business
without a dissenting vote In the com- session and a sermon by the Rev.
mlttee on permanent organization. I p. F.. Adams, Ph. D., of Felchvllle.
1 The communion was in charge of tho
VERMONTERS PROMINENT (Hev. C. A. Simmons and the benediction
lage, hut all their attacks elsewhere
failed.
Around Verdun, In tho region of hill
30 1 and on the right bank of the Meusa
from Damloup to Douaumont, tho bom
bardments continue Intense.
The Austrlans again have essayed
violent attacks agnlnst thn Italians In
the upper Arsa valley and northeast of
Aslngo, but everywhere were repulsed.
In the latter sector tho Italians drova
bark the Austrlans In a hand-to-hand
conflict to tho bottom of the C.inipo
mulo valley,
MEET AT SWANTON.
IN ROTH CONVENTIONS
Chicago, June 7. Thn roll of the creden
tials commltteo Includes: Charles M.
Hamilton, New York; James S. Beacon,
IVnnsyhanla, and G, W. Balle.i, Ver
mont. 12arl Kinsley Is named In thn list of re
publican national committeemen as lep
lesentliu: Vermont.
Chicago, June 7. National committee,
mm and members of thn comiulitctf on
resolutions from Nov York, Pennsylvu
uia and Vermont, elected nt cnueiises of
tho various progressive State delegations
yesterday and lo-dav are respectively:
New York: George V. Perl Ins, W. I,.
Ransom; Pennsylvania: Willinm Kllnii,
William D. ImwIh; Vermont; H, N. Jack
son, Raymond MuFarlaud.
was by the Rev. Hugo Perdelwltz.
Offhors were elected ns follows- Pres.
I'rnnklln anil Grand lile County Amo
eliitlim of t'ongregiitlonnl Cliiirclicx.
Swnnton, June 7 The Mst annual
meeting of the Franklin and Grand Isle
Association of Congregational Churihoi
opened nt the Coiiei egatlonal Church
Idem, the Rev. C. A. Simmons of Bar- this morning at 10 30 o'clock,
mini; vice-president, the Rev. A. N. ' The morning "as given up to busl
Blackford of Rochester; secretnry. tho ness. This afternoon n business meet
Rev. V. M. Martin of Gaysvllle; treas- Ing of the Women's Missionary socle
tiler, the Rev. 11. L. Caulleld of Wood, i ties was held and a sermon wns preached
stock. The resolutions Included a ' by the Rev. W. Parkyn Jackson of
strong endorsement of local, State and St. Albans.
national prohibition of the liquor trat-,
lie and strongly opposed "preparednesi nfQ RECOVER ON NOTES,
and militarism." i 4 "
It Is nnnoiinced that tho 1'nlversallst !
'convention has purchased the vestibule Mne I'IiiIiiIIITn In Milt ngnlii-I Henry
of tho original historic 1'nlversallst , ltnlihlnt In Addlxon Co. Court.
UN1VERSALISTS MEET.
tin-en .Miiiiutiiln AmhocIiiIIiiii In Annual
fM-Htitoii nt lliirnnril.
Bethel, June 7, The Green Mountain
Association of I'nlversallsts held its an
nual convention In Barnnrd yesterday
and to-day with u total attendance of
(W delegates. On tho first day thero
wero afternoon and evening sessions,
Church edltlco in Barnard, now on tho
hotel juoperty there, and the original
doorsteps located elsewhere, and will
move both to the church property.
It Is also nniiounccd that an annual
State rally of I'lilversallsts will here. I
after bo held In Barnard, tho natural 1
center of denominational Inlliience In
the State, where Unset Ballon held his
llrst pastorate and laid foundations for
the futuie of the faith.
KITC1I12NF.R MEMORIAL SERVICE.
London, June 7 A memorial service
to Earl Kitchener will bo held In St.
Paul's Cathedral June 13. King GeorjTo
and Queen Mary will attend tho service.
Mlddlebury. Juno 7 -The first trial of
the June term of Addison county court
wns started this morning. The case H
that of Frank II La Voice et al , vs.
Henry Robblns. Tliro are nine plain
tiffs, residing In PlaMsburgh, N. Y ,
,who are members of the Chamber of
Commerce of t lint city and stockholder
In the Eureka Binding Machine com
pany, which has headquarters there, bus
was formerly located in Burlington.
The suit Is brought to recover !2,tea
nnd Interest for $1,0V anil Jl.fiOO given
by Mr Robblns In August. 1113. to G.
Edward Aleander of St Johnsbury and
payable to his order as president of the,
nbovo named machine company, t
