8lte Historical Surety
SSOU& Messaq
On your label la date;
Renew before it is too late.
VOLUME 17.
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1910.
NUMBER 28.
Mexico Mi
Passenger Train On The C. & A.
Goes Over An Embankment
A Number of People Seriously
The Injured Brought to The
The local passenger train from Louisiana to Jefferson
City went over an embankment two miles east of Francis,
this side of Rush Hill, early Wednesday morning, . caused
by a broken rail. . . The passengers fell over the heads of
one another as the train rolled down. All who were
able escaped thru the coach door, which they broke open.
Among the injured were'- W. H. Logan, Laddonia,
badly cut and bruised about the head and face and hurt
internally.
Bunt Freels, Laddonia, seriously bruised and hurt.
1 Mrs. Tinsley Doss, Laddonia, several ribs broken.
' Verlea McCubbin, Laddonia, ankle injured.
Miss Freeman, Mexico, bruised and injured.
Tate Hess, Farber, bruised and injured. H. P. Middle
ton, Vandalia, severely hurt in lower limbs.
Dr. R. L. Alford, Vandalia, wrist broken and several
ribs fractured. Will Goran, Vandalia bruised and injured.
All the injured were brought to the Mexico Hospital
where they received immediate attention. W. H. Logan is
thought to be the worst hurt..
Drs. Monroe and McCall, Mrs. Logan, Frances Logan,
Mr. and Mrs. McCubbin, To mAlexander and Will Self
Tins Doss, came from Laddonia at once in autos to be
with their injured ones.
KITCHENER AND STAFF PERISH
WHEN BRITISH CRUISER SINKS.
On Board Cruiser Hampshire They Were Sent To Bottom
By U-Boat or Mine Off Scotch Coast At 8 P. M.,
Monday David Lloyd George May be Next English
Secretary of War.
London dispatches are to the effect that Lord Kitchener,
Secretary of State for War, in the Engrisb, Cabinet3 ind tps
entire staff lost their lives in the destruction of the cruiser,
Hampshire, off the Scotch coast, Monday, at 8 p. m. Not
a soul survives from the crew or staff of the Hampshire.
Lord Kitchener, the most idolized military hero, of the
British empire, had been secretary of state for war since
August, 1914, the day after war was declared on Germany.
THE WEATHER.
It cut up a good deal first of this
week. But we got off well In this
section compared with Arkansas and
other storm stricken localities. Rain
and high(wlnd all Monday night and
Tuesday. Cold atmosphere. J. B.
Botkin, Daii and Tom Roberts and
Bill Frazier were reminded of the
5th of June, 5? years ago, back in
their native county of Clark, near
Springfield, Ohio, when there was a
heavy- frost which killed the corn
nearly- knee high to the ground.
The farmers thought they had lost
all. But the corn came out later and
made a fine crop. No frost for Mis
souri. A good old State all right.
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Bickley and'
children of Pittsburg, Pa., are here
visiting Mrs. J. H. Bickley.'
Advance planning in business insures maximum pro
gress the full return from opportunity. Business
men who look ahead reap the reward of foresight.
For those who plan ahead close contact with general
financial and industrial conditions is highly desira
ble, and is best effected through an affiliation with a
strong progressive bank. "
All business men of Mexico an dvicinity are cordially
invited to utilize our varied facilities, and to freely
call upon our officers for assistance and advice.
North Missouri
NORTH SIDE SQUARE
Hurt But Nobody Killed
Mexico Hospital.
' SAM LAWS ILL.
Sam Laws, southeast of Auxvasse,
brother of T. A. Laws of Mexico, is
very ill of running cancer or gland
ular swellings. He was operated on in
St. Louis just recently, with but liftle
tie relief. There is small hope of his
improvement.
Mrs. Armilia Hill writing to the
Message from Rosebud, White Coun
ty, Ark., says: "All crops looking fine
here. Plenty of new potatoes and snap
beans. Cabbage nearly large enough
to use. Lots of peaches, but apples
are' scarce."
(hire a week, Priiluy and Saturday.
We have a Speciul Sato on some
household article at a price you will
be the loser if you mlsH.
L. ROYTERRIS.
Trust Company
MEXICO, MO."
KFMCIENCY CAMPAIGN
ON NEXT AVEEK.
Four Teams Are to Get Into the
Work for The Baptist Churches of
the County Four Churches a Day
To He Visited.
The Efficiency Campaign among
the Baptist churches of Audrain
County will begin Sunday. There will
be four teams of workers who Will
visit the nineteen Baptist churches of
the county, June 11 to-15. Dr. H. E.
Truex, Secretary of the St. Louis dis
trict, will assist in the campaign.
Jos. J. Jacobs, general secretary for
Missouri, will be here. Rev. Charles
King of Louisiana will speak on the
Country Church. Mr. King has made
a study of problems and conditions
of the country church and his ad
dresses will be of much interest. Mrs.
J. A. Guthrie, President of the Wom
an's Missionary Society in Missouri,
will assist in the, work. Miss Lucy
Brown, presiding officer of the Au
drain Association, will take part in
the campaign.
The object is to give information
of the work of the denomination and
to awaken a deeper interest among
the churches in all phases of re
ligious work.
Two teams will start in the wes
tern part of the county and move
eastward. Two teams will start at the
same time In the eastern part ol the
county and move xvestward. In this
way four churches will be visited
each day each church being visited
by two teams and each team visiting
two churches.
Rev. O. Olin Green, pastor of Mex
ico church, leads team No. 1. E.A.
Shannon, of Mexico, leads team No 2,,
Rev. L. P. Arvin, of Vandalia, leads
team No. 3, while Rev. T. R. White,
of Martinsburg, leads team No. 4.
MEMORIAL SERVICES.
Memorial services were held Sun
day at Elmwood cemetery. The frater
nal orders of the city having charge.
A. C. Whitson was master of ceremo
nies. All assembled at I. O. O. F.
Hall and marched to the grounds
headed by McMillan Band. Addresses
were made by Mayor J. F. Harrison,
Rev. O. Olin Green and Rev. A. A.
Wallace.
The following fraternal orders had
part: Odd Fellows, Knights of Pyth
ias, Knights and Ladies of Security,
and the Modern Woodmen.
Several of the county candidates
are fortunate this year in not having
any opposition in the primary. R.
D. Rodgers, for Prosecuting Attor
ney; Dr. R.. W. Berrey, for Coroner;
John W. Howell, PutIIc Administra
tor, and R. S. McKInney, County
Surveyor. Think what an interest
ing time the candidates for Sheriff
are having six In the race.
Pick only the very best and safest
men for the county end State offices.
Men who will stand by their oaths
and enforce the laws. Let's put the
laws into effect or take 'em off the
statute books.
Exercise in the garden Is better
than exercise in the gymnasium.
Miss Janette Bragg of Mexico and
Miss Mildred Tralle of Kansas City
are planning to open a kindergarten
at Central School next week. Mrs.
Russell Emmons will assist them at
the first. In getting the work under
way.
J. E. Elder of Laddonia is doing
carpenter work on a house tor Mrs,
McDaniel In Bates' Addition, Mextco.
Friday and Saturday Specials.
Heavy weight 9 Q.V aluminum stew
kettles. Regular price, 45c, aale
price, 23cenU. Open Saturday nights
L. ROY FERRIS.
ROUNDING OUT THREE YEARS.
June Meeting of the Order of the
Eustern Star at A. F. & A. M.
Hull Friday Evening.
The Order of the Eastern Star had
for their guests at their Third Anni
versary Meeting members of the Ar-
bela Chapter, Laddonia, and mem
bers of the Santa Fe Chapter. Those
from Laddonia and Santa Fe came in
autos', returning the same evening.
An interesting and impressive ses
sion was held, including initiatory
exercises., which continued to a late
hour.
A two course luncheon was served
and the social hour was most enjoy
able. About seventy people were in
attendance. Among the visitors we
recall: from Santa Fe, Mr. and Mrs.
Jno. Beagles, and Mrs. J. D. Worley;
from Laddonia, Mr. and Mrs. May
hall, Dr. and Mrs. Monroe, Dr. and
Mrs. McCall, Dr. and Mrs. Hancock,
Mr. Ed uujoe, Mrs. Arthur Wilder,
Mrs. W. K. Gass, Mrs. L. W. McCoy,
Mrs. McCubbin, Mrs. Ralph Wilder.
COUNTY COURT PROCEEDINGS.
Special road and bridge money or
dered to road districts in the same
proportion as paid to collectors.
James Myers made application for
pool license at Rush Hill. To be
heard at July term of Court.
Harry Frazier, Ovel Ryals and
Charles Moore of Huntsville, applica
tion for license for pool and billiard
hall in the old Craddock building
French building.
S. A. Jones applies for pool and bil
liard hall license at Farber.
W. D. Robertson application for
pool license at Martinsburg.
DESTRUCTIVE STORMS.
More than 82 persons were killed
and 262 Injured and enormous prop
erty damage was done thru large sec
tions of Southeast Missouri, Arkan
sas, Illinois and Mississippi Monday
night and Tuesday by a series of tor
nadoes, according to incomplete re
turns.
Rev. J. S. Jesse of Waynesville,
Mo., and his son, Lewis Jesse, who is
principal of the High School at El
dorado, Okla., are here for a few
days with relatives after the burial
of the wife of Rev. Jesse here Sun
day. Mrs. Jesse was 63 years, one
month and one day, old at he time of
her death. Her death was the re
sult of paralysis caused from an
acute attack of Bright's disease.
CANDIDATE SEES DEMOCRATIC
YICTOKY IX STATE THIS YEAR
FRED L. WILLIAMS, of Joplin, who
is a candidate for Judge of the Su
preme Court, division No. 2, the un
expired term, was in Mexico Tuesday
in the interest pt his candidacy. Mr.
Williams met a large number of
Democratic voters here. He is mak
ing a close canvass of the State and
declares the prospects for a big vic
tory next year are very promising.
V '
$& A fc A W
d A n 3 A A $
$ Mexico Saving? Bank $
$ 44th Year in Business $
$ Capital Stock, $150,000 $
$ W. W. FRY, President. $
$ J. R. JESSE, Cashier. $
$, A ft ft & 4k
u A w u) w w W W
WOODCRAFT STORIES
FOR LITTLE CHILDREN
TENTH
By L. Roy Ferris.
"I say, Brother Bull Frog, I wish you would please quit
singing. You know since the Camp Boy left I am so lone
some I don't like music like I used to.', says Sister Possum
as she hung each of her little darlings on a small limb by
the tail for their morning nap. "And there goes Sister
Dove with her doleful song. Oh My, how I wish the Camp
Boy would come back. I do miss his cheerful whistle and
thoughtful ways."
"So do I," said Rattlesnake, and just then they heard a
"rattle, rattle," that sounded like the one Uncle John gave
to baby brother. And Blacksnake head in the air made
straight for old Brother Rattlesnake. And I have an idea
that the baby rattlers missed their papa at supper time.
Sister Coon walked over to where the camp had been.
There was Terrapin already
sneaking along but Red Fox. "Good morfng, friends.
Kinder lonesome, isn't?" But everybody felt so blue they
made no answer. Old Brother Skunk who had been hunt
ing around under the straw the Camp Boy had used for a
bed walked over to the birch tree, right where the Camp
Boy had always hung his tooth brush, towel and cake of
soap, and looking up there was something queer pinned
to the side of the tree. It had kind of a familiar look to
Brother Skunk. Brother Rabbit who hopped up close,
easy-like, (for you know he has little cushions on his feet,
just like pussy, the cat, and that is why she can slip up on
Robin Red Breast so easily) noticed tears in old Skunk's
eyes, which goes to show that everybody has a heart way
down deep in his or her bosom if you will just dig deep
enough. And what do you think it was fastened to the
tree? Placed there by the boy as a gentle reminder? It
was the skin of Slim Weasel, the fellow that killed poor
Robin Red Breast. I hope any boy that kills a Robin
or any other song bird will have his skin fastende in the
tree for at least five minutes."
Finally Brother Terrapin spoke up and said, "I wish
every tellow would be as nice as the camp boy. Red
Squirrel quit eating elm buds long enough to remark,
"I saw him pull the nails out of the trees when he left,
and heard him say, 'I will take those nails out and it
will save some pour fellow from having his saw ruined
if they ever cut this tree down' ".
"He closed all the gates when he left," said Brother
Rabbit. "I followed him as far as the road."
He didn't shoot at a fellow with his rifle, like the
Sunday School picnicers did." remarked Terrapin as he
displayed several scars on his back, caused by their bullets.
"I am glad he closed the gates," said Dr. Owl, "for
if everyone did so when they visit the country they
would be more welcome."
Then Fatty, the ear, spoke" of Brother Coon and
said how he missed him, and how good he had been.
Just like some people do when a person dies, instead of
giving them the kind remarks and flowers while alive.
But Brother Coon was not dead, for the last time our
friends had seen him he was perched on the shoulder
of the Camp Boy looking well and saucy. "I wonder will
we ever see him again?" continued Fatty Bear as he
crammed a paw full of mulberries in his mouth, managing
to smear them over his face. but then he was not at the
table, and no one was looking, so that makes a difference.
doesn't it?
Brother Rabbit. alwa
claimed. "Run, for I hear something:." Red Sciuirrel ran
into a hole. Dr. Owl hid
except Fatty Bear who tried
because it was a sycamore,
better. Don t you think so?
guess why. He finally hid
yelled Red Squirrel, "Brother
see us. Snatching a little piece of paper that was tied to
Brother Coon's neck he handed it to Terrapin, and this
is what it said:
"Dear Friends : I am writing you a little note, altho
I know you will not be able to read it, but at the same
time it relieves my feelings a little bit to do so. Brother
Coon enjoyed his stay with us for awhile, but he soon
began to long to see his little friends and wade in the creek
and catch crawfish around the big rock near the spring.
Of course he didn't tell me this, but he finally refused to
eat and I guessed what was the matter. Now, dear little
friends, whomtl love, I want you to always remember me.
If none of you can read this note, which of course you
cannot, I hope Brother Coon will tell you enough so .that
you will never forget," "Your friend, The Camp Boy."
P. S. Robin Red Breast and his wife have a pretty
home in a tree near by, and I am sure they send their
love. C. B."
The Union County Sunday School
Convention was In. session at Mar
tic6burg this week. Mrs. Norton. Mel
son, Mrs. Elon Dearing, Miss Annie
Lewis, Prof. Robert Camp"bell and
others from Mexico attended.'
STORY.
there, and who should come
s listening for trouble, ex
behind a limb. Evervone ran
to climb a tree but couldn't.
and he should have known
Because-but I will let you
behind a bush. "Who-oee"
Coon has come back to
WHILE TUEV LAST.
A splendid adjustable hack saw,
frame ancl blade. Regular price,
73 coins, for 45 cents. Every
Farmer NetxU One.
L. ROY FERRIS.
