Music Festival Goes
Beyond All Records
One of the finest choruses of local
talent ever heard in Valley City was
enjoyed in the Normal School audi
torium Tuesday night, when the Chor
al society, assisted by four artists
from out of the city, a double quartet
of mixed voices, a trio of selected
women's voices and the North Dakota
Festival orchestra, under the direction
of Dean Eugene Woodhams, presented
Mendelssohn's oratorio, "Elijah" as
the 1916 Musical Festival.
Altogether it was one of the most
delightful occasions of the perform
ances given by the department of
music during the past school year.
The small festival audiences of the
previous day increased to five or six
hundred as townspeople began to rea
lize that though there was no expen
sive out-of-the-state talent on the pro
gram, Dean Woodhams and the other
members of his department had con
structed a program probably second to
none of its kind heard here before.
The audience placed the "large chorus
in fine fettle to begin with and their
efforts sounded more like the strains
of a large organ, so well prepared were
the members, so precise in attack, and
well informed on the fine points of the
piece as a whole.
Special mention should be made of
the tenors and bases, who small in
number, made their work effective,
nevertheless, and produced a well
rounded organization. The choruses
well featured the work of the entire
evening.
Then there were the solo artists.
Miss Florence Hedstrum sang the so
prano parts very well, and yet she is
just recovering from an operation on
her throat. Valley City people take
pride in the work of this young artist,
and hope to hear her again before very
long. Predictions made for her when
she left to advance her study have
come true. This was given ample evi
dence in her appearances her this
week.
Mme. Edna Swanson Ver Haar, con
tralto, was a delight, pure and simple,
during both the afternoon and evening
performances of Tuesday. Nothing
less than 15 selections released her
from the afternoon program, and. she
was recalled time and again in the eve
ning. As in the instance of the pre
ceding artist, she has a pleasing per
sonality that adds much to artistic
ability. As was said Tuesday after
noon, mothers weep when Mme. Ver
Haar sings lullabies.
J. Glenn Lee, as tenor soloist, though
having less opportunity in the oratorio
than some of the other soloists, gave
entire satisfaction and showed much
musicianly ability. The same may be
said of Frederick Southwick, on whom
as baritone soloist much of the work
Of the evening fell.
A double quartet consisting of Mrs.
Knute Froysaa, Miss Elizabeth Clark,
Mrs. M. C. James, Mrs. W. T. Craswell
and Messrs. McMullen, Hunt, Steven
son and Meyer, sang "For He Shall
Give His Angels Charge Over Thee,"
with much effect and showed again
the possibilities of the local talent at
disposal here.
The trio, consisting of Misses Rae,
Aldahl, and Bubletz, sang "Life Thine
Eyes." They were recalled to sing it
again. These three young ladies rep
resent the department of public school
music at the Normal school, and dur
ing their attendance have become
prominently known locally, both about
the school and in the community. All
three young ladies are to be compli
mented not only on their work as a
trio this year, but on the fact that they
go out next year as music supervisors
In the larger cities. They have ex
emplified the possibilities of the work
of this department.
Then there was the orchestra that
added much to the program. Several
additional members joined for this
program. Nearly all of them had per
formed on a similar program several
times when "Elijah" was given. This
organization left little to be desired,
and showed that the co-operation of
one little community with another on
occasions of this kind can be made
successful.
1
Not one of the audience of Tuesday
evening but speaks enthusiastically of
the week. Though some of them have
been lightly supported, they have been
of the highest class. There has been
less novelty and curiosity attached to
these programs, and more music than
ever before. That is the aim of the
department.
The Times-Record's phone is No. 4.
Unique Ceremony in Connection
Unveiling of City's Electric Flag
The city council has decided to have
a public unveiling on Wednesday, June
14, of the electric flag which is to be
placed on the dome of the city hall.
This ceremony will occur in the even
ing of that day, which is Flag Day.
Preceding the unveiling the Munici
pal band will give a concert of patriot
ic airs in front of the city hall. The
students of both the Normal and pub
lic schools will be invited to partici
pate, patriotic- songs will be sung, and
a stirring address will be given by one
of our prominent citizens.
A salute of 21 guns will be fired, and
at the firing of the first gun Old GlQry
will be unveiled, the light will be turn
ed on, and the band and singers will
4*!*
VOL. XXXVl»—NO. 6. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1916.
Wimbledon Repairing
Damage Done by Storm
Wimbledon, June 6.—That the dam
ages done in this vicinity by the late
storm which swept over this part of
the state will aggregate $300,000 is
confirmed now that the reports are
all in and losses estimated.
Insurance adjusters have been buss
all week making adjustments and
their work is not yet completed. There
were some 75 different claims for
damages in this city alone, which rep
resents only about half the actual loss
es, as many of the losers carried no
cyclone insurance.
However, the carpenter's hammer
is busy, partly damaged buildings
are being repaired and where the ruin
was completed new buildings that are
larger and better than the old ones
are about to be erected in their place.
In town the only building of any
size that was completely razed was
Fred Etter's garage. The damages
amount to about $3,000 and no storm
insurance was carried. The garage
was built only a year ago to replace
one destroyed by fire. He is not
daunted, however, and work of re
building is already under way. The
new building will be one of the sam3
size as the old one and will be built
considerably stronger.
Though the number of large barns
were completely wrecked by the
in the country around here which
storm figure up to about 40, they will
be all replaced as quick as the
carpen­I
ter crews can erect them.
President Pennington, of the Soo
railway has offered $500 to a relief
fund and more if needed, and has
offered to secure a relief train of sup
plies if needed, but both offers have
been declined. It is evident that very
exaggerated reports have been sent
out in regard to the storm. No relief
is needed here, as almost without ex
ception everyone is able to care for
themselves nicely. The offers are ap
preciated for their fine spirit, though
fortunately not needed.
NEW ROCKFOBD MAN MAKES
YEAR'S FIRST ALFALFA CUT
New Rockford, June 6.—Hugh Peo
ples has a crew of men busy cutting
alfalfa and will soon have an immense
quantity of the world's finest stock
food securely stacked.
He has now over 300 acres growing,
which constitutes a very attractive
sight when in bloom.
Three or four cuttings of hay can
be secured each year, but he gener
ally saves a seed crop, which takes
longer to mature. He raises nothing
but the Grimm variety, which at
present is selling at 75 cents per
pound. Three bushels is not consider-
ed a heavy crop in this country, which
at the present price would amount to
$135 per acre, exclusive of hay crops.
Agricultural experts inform us thtt
a ton of alfalfa hay has feed value
equal to a ton of oats or bran.
Mr. Peoples has been raising this
great soil-building legume success
fully in a small way for over 15 years,
and, forseeing its great benefit to this
country, has greatly interested himself
in getting it thoroughly established in
this county.
FIRST WOMEN'S PARTY
FORMED IN CHICAGO
Chicago, June 5.—History for wom
en was in the making tonight, when
the first woman's party was drawn
under the auspies of the convention
for woman's suffrage. The night meet
ing followed the day meeting, mark
ing the three-day convention here in
an effort to promote their cause and
induce progressives and republican*
to put a suffrage plank in their plat
form, and obtain an endorsement of
the Susan B. Anthony amendment to
the constitution.
PARDONED FROM PEN
Bismarck, June 6.—Thomas Carbury,
convicted several years ago for the
murder of a sheep-herder near Mar
marth, was pardoned. There has al
ways been considerable doubt as to
his guilt. He proved an excellent pris
oner. The pardon met with the ap
proval of all who knew of the case.
render "The Star Spangled Banner."
A prominent old soldier will pull the
string to unveil the beautiful electric
flag. Nothing like this has ever been
given in the state or northwest. All
the people of Valley City and Barnes
county are invited to come and take
part in this unique and patriotic event.
Remember it is to be Wednesday,
June 14, FLAG DAY, at the city hall.
Make it an occasion memorable in the
annals of Valley City, do it in a big
way, the Valley City way.
Henry Beal left on Wednesday morn
ing for Lisbon to spend the day and
attend the board meetinf at the Sol
dier's home on Wednesday.
Sunday School Convention
at Litchville Wednesday
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
The district Sunday school conven
tion will convene at Litchville Wed
nesday afternoon and there will also
be an evening session.
There will be a good program and
prominent speakers from various parts
of the state. Mr. and Mrs. O. A. Bar
ton and Mr. and Mrs. F. T. Goodier are
among those from Valley City who will
attend, and it is requested that any
others interested also attend. Litch
ville has made preparation to enter
tain their "company" on this occesion,
and we hope a large delegation from
the county seat will make an effort to
go down and partake of their hospi
tality.
Mr. and GVIrs. C. E. Miller, of Rogers,
were Valley City callers on Tuesday
and were registered at the Hotel Kin
dred while here.
A SPLENDID HABIT
A Savings Pass Rook in this Bank makes
your boy feel like a man. It gives a feeling
of self-reliance, and self-reliance is one of the
principal attributes of character.
FORM THE HABIf
of depositing some portion of your income,
however small, and then keep it up with
regularity for it is regularity, systemind
perseverance that is even more important
than the amount you save.
Small accounts are welcome at
Bank of Valley City
The sun shone bright and clear Sat
urday morning, which delighted the
hearts of hundreds of boys and girls
all over Barnes county. Early in the
morning the crowds poured into Val
ley City, coming by trains, autos, bug
gies, wagons, hayracks—any way to
get here.
By 9:30 the auditorium of the Nor
mal school was filled with radiant
youths. There Prof. Call, of the Nor
mal school, made the announcement
concerning the athletic contests which
followed. The children sang "The Star
Spangled Banner," followed by the
flag salute.
Preliminary contests had been held
in 20 different sections of the county
previous to this, and over 600 buttons
were given out to the boys and girls
who had qualified in the events at the
preliminary meet.
At 10 on the Normal campus the
smaller children enjoyed the play
ground apparatus and played games
under the direction of Miss Cranz, Miss
Farup, and the other teachers of the
physical education department of the
Normal school. The athletic contests
for the girls were held on the campus
and the boys' events were run off on
the athletic field on the hill.
A picnic dinner was held in the city
park. The Valley City Wholesale
Grocery Co. furnished the coffee, which
was served free to all the picnickers.
At 1 o'clock the parade began to form
west of the city park. Owing to the
shower which came on, the parade was
delayed and shortened, as the students
of the Normal school and many other
schools who had planned to march
were not able to go through the mud
with their white shoes and finery.
Chief of Police Swanson, mounted on
a bay steed, led the parade, followed
by the Valley City band and an auto
decorated in the county school colors
of yellow and black, representing the
golden grain and the black loam. This
auto contained Hon. E. J. Taylor, of
Bismarck, state superintendent of
schools, Miss Minnie J. Nielson, county
superintendent of schools, President
Geo. A. 'McFarland, of the State Nor
mal school, and J. F. L. Bohnhoff,
president of the Barnes County School
Officers' association. Following this
auto, came a possession ten blocks
long. The Normal band wagon gave
forth inspiring music along the way.
jit would be impossible to adequately
describe all the floats. They were of
a much superior quality to those of the
two previous years, showing more orig
I inal thought and excellent worked out
ideas.
The judges were Rev. Mr. Atkinson,
Miss Charlotte Hallock, Mrs. A. B. Cox,
Dr. C. E. Spicer, Mrs. Geo. Simpson,
Rev. Moultrie, S. P. Nokken, Mrs. Mor
ten Mortenson, Fred Keyes, Mrs. J. EJ.
Featherstone, Dr. L. S. Platou, and
Miss Charlotte Stahlum.
The judges bad a difficult time decid
ing the various awards, as there were
so many excellent ideas displayed.
They were placed as follows: Autos—
Ritchie school, Uxbridge, Rogers
vehicles—Baldwin, Noltimier, Sanborn,
Cuba, Pillsbury business men's floats
—Russell-Miller Milling Co.,. Chaffee,
Stern and Straus progress—Nolti-
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Rohde
Celebrated Anniversary
Sunday afternoon at the farm resi
dence of Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Rohde, 11
miles northest of Valley City, about
150 neighbors and friends gathered to
celebrate the twenty-fifth wedding an
niversary of this worthy couple.
At 4 o'clock services were conducted
by Rev. Bohnhoff, and following this
the hour was made the occasion for a
social event and to present Mr. and
Mrs. Rohde with several pieces of sil
verware and other tokens of esteem.
The Rohde family is comprised of
the parents and six children, and the
parents were among the first settlers
of Barnes county. They now have. a
farm of 800 acres and are progressive
and prosperous.
The best wishes of the community
were extended to the host and hostess
on their anniversary, and it is hoped
they may enjoy many more.
lllllllllllllllllll
Barnes County Annual Play
Day One of Best Ever Held
MINOT DIVE KEEPER
GETS JAIL SENTENCE
Minot, June 6.—Charles Fuller, a no
torious dive keeper who was proprie
tor of the disreputable Northwestern
hotel, and was brought back from
Great Falls, where he was caught after
skipping his bail on a charge of con
ducting a blind pig and a disorderly
house, entered a plea of guilty in
county court Saturday afternoon to
the charge of keeping and maintain
ing a common nuisance, and was sen
tenced to six months in jail and also
to pay a fine of $350 and $25 costs,
and in default of payment of the fine
and costs, to serve an additional two
months in jail. As he is unable to pay
the fine he will be compelled to serve
eight months in jail.
Fuller is one of the chronic law
breakers of the city and has cost the
tax-payers lots of money. Once when
his joint was pulled he opened up the
night following the day he was let out.
He is married to a negress and the
whole place is unsavory. He has been
one of the persistent criminals who
chase to the newspaper office so soon
as his gang was caught and asked to
have his name kept out of the paper.
COMMISSION PRESIDENT TO
LIVE STOCK RATE HEARING
Bismarck, June 6.—W. H. Stutsman,
president of the railroad commission,
left yesterday for Chicago, where he
will attend a confenence of railroad
commission heads regarding the new
regulations governing shipments of
livestock.
The stockmen feel that the propos
ed proposition to limit more closely
the money received by shippers for
stock lost in transit will be against
their best interests.
AVERTS BAD ACCIDENT
Jamestown, June 6.—The sharp turn
of a buggy, almost in the space of its
own tracks, was the only thing which
saved Andrew Ratzak, wife and baby,
when the Soo Line passenger No. 101
came over the crossing just west of
the depot. He was driving a team
and the top of the buggy was up which
prevented him from seeing or hearing
the oncoming train until an extra
sharp blast of the whistle reached his
ears, and the horses and buggy were
swung around within a circle of eight
feet without upsetting. The team was
on the middle sidetrack, within a few
feet of the main track, when they
were turned.
mier consolidated district, Oriska,
Pillsbury, and Wimbledon.
The Getchell district contains three
separate schools, and all three schools
were represented by excellent floats,
so is first in that regard. After the
parade, the people assembled on the
Normal campus where Supt. Taylor
presented diplomas to the 200 eighth
grade graduates of Barnes county. The
names of the graduates will be given
in a later issue. Altogether the day
was a big one for the children of
Barnes county, and the 1916 Play Day
is one that will not be forgotten.
Time to Begin Your
Chautauqua Boosting
Death of Kitchener Is
Great Blow to English
The Valley City Chautauqua assor-ia
tion is up against a thoroughly prarti-!
cal proposition. They want the com-1
munity to hear the best and biggest!
things to be had. The taste of Chan-1
tauquans grows more and more exa
ing year by year and it becomes in
creasingly difficult to measure up to.
the requirements, yet the program or
talent committee tries to measure up
to the demands placed upon them and
1
provide as big a program as available
funds can buy. As time goes on they!
learn to spend whatever the income
warrants to the very best advantage,
and, as this year, are in position to of
fer the public as good a program as
can be found on any platform any
where. But it must be borne in mind
that the contracts entered into with
bureaus or talent are personal obliga
tions of the members of the association
and must be met no matter how the
weather is or what happens.
The best way to stand back of the
association now is by boosting the
coming Chautauqua assembly, June 30
to July 16. Get into the booster class
The average mule can do all the kick
ing necessary. That is away the mule
has to show that it is a mule, but you
do not belong to that classification and
there is no need that you should, so
join the boosters. Plan to attend thj
Chautauqua, part of the time if not all
the time urge your neighbors to join
you in the booster campaign and in at
tending the Chautauqua. Help get the
season tickets among the people buy
your own now and get out of the com
ing rush later. Tickets are the same
price as last year, and Otto P. Neu
mann has a big bunch of them already
numbered and in shape for immediate
delivery. Now it is up to you to class
ify yourself. What are you going to
do about it?
NEW NORTHERN PACIFIC
LITERATURE IS ISSUED
Several of the Northern Pacific rail
way's latest booklets describing trips
to the Pacific northwest have just
been received here. They include late
photographs of Yellowstone park, lead
ing to Gardiner, as well as to other
scenic places along that line.
More attention is paid in this litera
ture to the Puget Sound country and
Alaska than heretofore. Color illus
trations and accurate analysis of the
region known as the "Land of For
tune" gives the latest efforts of the
railway company a dignity and effect
that will no doubt cause increased
travel and immigration to the north
west during 1916.
Other literature will soon be issued
by the Northern Pacific calling atten
tion to the unduplicated scenic won
ders of the Yellowstone, Rainier and!
other of Uncle Sam's national parks
along that line.
STEELE HAS PORCINE WONDER
Steele, June 6.—J. C. Loerch brought
of Paige's drug store a curiosity in the
shape of a monstrosity of the swine
tribe that apepared in a litter of pigs
on his farm a few days or so before.
The animal is a combination of two,
connected at the navel and left shoul
der of the larger and nearly normal
one, the secondary farmation being
much smaller. Both have clearly de
veloped heads and feet, also tails, that
of the larger one being unusually long.
A peculiarity of the larger specimen is
two additional ears, the abnormal
ones being on the back of the head
and close together. The snouts are
natural as are the feet and divided
hoofs. The whole weighs about two
pounds and the larger pig is probably
seven inches in length, not including
the tail.
Druggist Paige placed the porcine
twins in alcohol and they are on dis
play.
HAVE ORDERED AUTO BANNERS
Some weeks ago A. J. Huso, ot
Northwood, N. D., wrote to the St. Paul
office of the Equity exchange stating
that he was a booster for the ex
change, was proud of it, and would
like to advertise the fact among his
fellow farmers. He asked that the
exchange purchase some banners to be
fastened on automobiles, stating that
the owner of the car was a booster for
the exchange, and also giving the
dates of the coming annual national
convention. The exchange last Satur
day placed an order with a prominent
St. Paul firm for these banners, and
any farmer in North Dakota owning1
an automobile that would like to carry I
a banner advertising the exchange1
should write in at once to the St. Paul'
office, requesting one of these ban
ners. The exchange also placed an
order for buttons, advertising the
dates of the coming national conven
tion, and is anxious to have as many
boosters as possible wear these but
tons during the summer months.
J. E. BOYLE COMES TO A. C.
Fargo, June 5.—James E. Boyle, pro
fessor of economics and political sci
ence at the university at Grand Forks,
has resigned to accpet a research posi
tion with the United States experi
ment station in Fargo.
The position is an important one
and comes in the nature of a promo
tion for Prof. Boyle. He will give
his entire time to research, principal
ly on the marketing side of agricul
ture and farm credits.
1
ESTABLISHED
London, June 6.—The news that
Earl Kitchener, secretary of state for
war, and his staff, who were proceed
ing to Russia aboard the cruiser Hamp
shire, were lost off the Orkney islands
last night, was the most stunning
blow Great Britain has received since
the war began. This is the second
shock the country has sustained within
a week. The other was when the
newspapers appeared Friday evening
with the first intelligence of the naval
battle in the North sea in the form of
a list of ships lost, with virtually no
intimation that there was any compen
sation in the way of enemy losses. The
bulletin telling of the death of Kitche
ner gave the country even a greater
shock.
Kitchener was the one outstanding
person whom the people talked of and
believed as a great man, notwithstand
ing newspaper attacks which at a form
er period in the war threatened to un
dermine public confidence in him.
A telegram from Admiral Sir John
Jellicoe, commander of the fleet, giving
the bare facts, was received at the ad
miralty about 11 o'clock in the morn
ing. The first official announcement
was issued at about 1:30 in the after
noon. About noon rumors were spread
ing and the telephones in the newspa
per offices were busy with inquirers
anxious to know whether this—one of
of the many reports circulating in the
days of tension—had any foundation.
They were told there was nothing in it.
When the announcement finally was
issued, the facts spread about London
some time before the newspapers
could get into the streets.
There was a crowd about the stock
exchange requiring the police reserves
to deal with it. The police told every
one to move on that there was no
truth in the report.
At the same time another mass of
people were assembling about the gov
ernment office in Whitehall. All the
windows of the war office had the cur
tains lowered. That confirmed the
rumor beyond a doubt. Other crowds
gathered around the newspaper offices.
When the boys came out with armfuls
of extras the people fell on them and
fought for the papers.
In the course of the afternoon the
flags on all buildings were flown at
half staff.
Admiral Jellicoe, commander of the
British grand fleet, has reported to
the admiralty that the British cruiser
Hampshire with Earl Kitchener and
his staff aboard, has been lost off the
West Orkneys.
Four boats were seen to leave the
Hampshire, but a heavy sea was run
ning. Only one capsized boat and
some bodies were found.
Kitchener was on his way to Russia.
Admiral Jellicoe reports there is lit
tle hope that there are any survivors.
The names of the members of Kitch
ener's staff have not been learned.
Sir William Robertson, chief of the
imperial staff, is in London.
Jellicoe's report to the admiralty fol
lows: "I report with deep regret his
majesty's ship Hampshire, Captain
Herbert J. Savill, R. N., with Lord
Kitchener and his staff aboard, was
sunk last night about 8 o'clock to the
west of the Orkeys, either by a mine
or torpedo. Four boats were seen to
observers on shore to leave the ship.
The wind was northwest and heavy
seas were running.
"Patrol vessels and destroyers im
mediately proceeded to the spot and a
party sent along the coast to search,
but only some bodies and capsized
boats have been found thus far. As
the entire shore has been searched, I
greatly fear there is little hope of
there being any survivors. No report
has yet been received from the search
party ashore."
When the news regarding Kitchener
and his staff was received in London,
a meeting of the British war council
was immediately called. Sir William
Robertson, chief of the imperial staff,
who probably will become head of the
war office, Sir Edward Grey, secretary
of foreign affairs, Reginald McKenna,
chancellor of the exchequer, and David
Lloyd George, minister of munitions,
were present at the council.
TROPHY FOR MARKSMANSHIP
OFFERED BY REMINGTONS
The Remington Arms people have
notified General T. H. Tharalson that
the war department has approved an
offer from the village of Uion, N. Y.,
to present a trophy to the organized
militia of each state for proficiency in
marksmanship to be known as the
Remington Centennial trophy. This
company appreciated that the greatest
shooting interest in the country exists
among the citizen soldiery and there
fore wish to present a suitable trophy
symbolic of the achievement and in
dustry of Ilion.
The trophy will be of bronze and
stand 34 inches high. It will be mag
nificent in design and workmanship
and from an artistic standpoint suit
able for exhibition in any environment.
MARRIED AT WIMBLEDON
Arthur Butcher, station agent at
Wimbledon for the Midland Conti
nental road and formerly of James
town, was married last Saturday at
that town to Miss Bessie Thompson.
The wedding took place at the home
of Mr. and Mrs/ A. E. Dennstedt,
Rev. Gus Simon, of Jamestown, offici
ating. Mr. and Mrs. Butcher left for
Tacoma, Wash., and other western
points. They will be at home at Wim
bledon after July 10.
Levi T. Peterson and O. H. Hanson,
Litchville, were Valley City visitor*
on Tuesday.
f^$pf
