ieV
ttiB
Sta
te
aney County
EPUBLICAN
Four rages.
V.,r 21. No. 3(.
FOUSYTII, MISSOUUl. TIIUIISDAY, .11 INK s, IHUi.
Wasting' on Litter
i From Our Hi'Kiiliir rurivsiMiiKliMit.i
STILL SHIFTING: President Wilson
gives the people of this country and
the statesman ol the old credit lor so
little memory that he counts confident
ly on theii being blind to this constant
changes of policy, his continued shitt
ing ol his viewpoint. With the nation
al campaign close at hand, Mr. Wilson
his proclaimed himself an advocate of
a policy whereby "a universal associ
ation of nations" is to be created and
of such an association he says, "I am
sure that I speak the mind and the
wish of the people ol America when I
say that the United Slates is willing (0
become a partner in any feasible as
sociation of nations', designed to main
tain universal peace. Mr. Wilson has
further indicated an entire willingness
to play a leading role in the formation
of such a partnership of nati ins ana in
the guidance of its afhirs. All this
was announced in his speech to The
league to Enforce Pace, in Wash
ington, last week. Only ten days ago
Mr. Wilson who apparently had not
then realized the political capital to be
made out of taking the leadership in a
great peace movement, told the Nat
ional Press Club that the European
nations are all "mad" and that 'thty
cannot be held to ordinary standards
of responaibility," hardly a diplomatic
utterance for a man who now aspires to
take the leading role in a partnership
to be composed of those nations and
the United States. In his message to
Congress in December 1914, Mr. Wil
son told the American people that the
European conflict was "a war with
which we had nothing to do" and
whose causes cannot affect us." This
sentiment he reiterated at the Press
Club this month, when he said again
that "Americans have nothing to do
with the recent quarrel." Before he
regarded leadership in a great peace
"partnership" as a political asset, Mr.
Wilson took pains to incur the con
tempt and dislike of the warring nations,
calling them "mad" and "irrespons
ible" nations, and now he would lead
them to peace. Such diplomacy is
entirely characteristic ol the W.lson
Administration, It has neither con
victions nor fixed ideals. On ev. rv
important policy its leader has shifted
like the winds of the desert. Political
expediency has been its only good and
inconsistency its sole unfailing attri
bute. Dr. Wilson should take home
the injunction, "The great rule of con
duct for us in regard to foreign nations
is in extending our commercial relations
to have with them as little political
connection as possible." These words
of George Vashington may not be new,
but they are at least preferable to the
persistent shiftiness of Woodrow Wilson.
NEARBY APPLICATION: -Had Pres
ident Wilson heeded the warnings ol
the first President, American citizens
would not have lost their property and
their lives in Mexico as the result
of Mr. Wilson's forcing on
them the tyranny of Catranza. Had
Mr. Wilson had even the consistency
to stand by his own warning of last
December, and all those that went be
fore, there would now be no appeal
from Tampico." Oa Decembor 28,
1915, this Adrninis'ration warned Car
tdx.ii of its determination to protect
the lives and property rights of Ameri
cans, threatening dire things if Carran-
zi failed to heed the warning. In al
most every possible way, Catranza has
nvl only ignored that warning, but has
fl.uuted it in the face of the Admin
iatraiion. Americans have had their
properly suz jd and been heavily penal
ized because they refused to accept
the almost worthless paper money is
iutd by Grrar.zi at the value fixed by
the present regime. Confiscatory tax
es have been imposed. Americans
luve been denied the right ol travel
regardless of the exigencies demand
ing it. And now, according to popu
lar report, Carrmzi is demanding the
immediate withdrawal of American
troops and making military prepar
atious to enforce his demand if it is
rjrit promptly acceded to. The entire
ihauieful page of Mexican. Uuited
States History is simply the result of
Wilson's failure to heed Washington's
injunction, his meddling in Mexican
politics when he forced Huerta out of
office.
RlGGS BANK ACQUITTAL: -The
acquittal, in Its; than ten minutes
after the case was committed to the
j uy three officers ol The Riggs Nat
ional Bank 'accused of perjury is if
national interest because it strikes at
the tyranny which John Skelton Wil
liams, as Comptroller ol the Currency,
has exercised over every rational bank
in the country, and because it has ser-
ved to demonstrate the extent to which!
this Admiuistntiou is willing to go in j
prostituting the machinery ol justice
to satisfy personal spleen. Personal
grudges ol Stcretary McAdoo and
Williams against the officers ol this,
one of the oldest banks in the country
and the largest and most respected in
national capital, led two years' of per- j
seculion of the institution, culminating
in a wholly unwarranted indictment of!
three ol its officers lor perjury. The
United States Attorney, having investi
gated the facts, reported to the Attorney-General
that he was convinced
these r.fficers were innocent and said '
he would not ask for their indictment
without specific instructions frmn At
torney General Gregory, who in turn
said he would not issue those instruc
tions without orders from the President
The President issued the orders, the
indictment was returned and the base
lessness of the Government's charge
became obvious to the public even
before the jury confirmed it by return
ing a verdict of acquittal as promptly
as it was physically possible for them
to do so. Those who followed the
progress of this trial describe the ver
dict arq iitting the officers as "the
conviction of John Skelton Williams
and the indictment ol Woodrow Wil
son." For the first time in the S3
years' history of the National Bank
Act a national bank has dared to resist
tlin unreasoning persecution ol a great
national Administration and come tut
victorious, the bunk being more pros
perous today than when the persecut
lion was undertaken. It is conserva-
lively estimated that the retention in j
ffice ol John Skelton Willanis will
cost ihe Democratic party a million
otcs next November.
Senator Chilton ol West Virginia
seeks to minimize the importance of
the recent Congressional by-election
in his state. This is rntirely natural.
The Democrats have always tried to in
sist that the results of the elections ol
1914 and 1915 constitute a Democra
tic victory. II so, it is in tin same
class as the diplomatic "triumphs"
which the administration is so con
stantly gaining in the colums ol Dem
ocratic newspapers. In no Democra
tic leader of consequence and of judg
ment can be found who will claim
privately that the drift of political act
ion is anything but strongly against
the Democracy. Of course, some of
them will continue to whistle to keep
their courage up. Senator Chilton
has the best reasons for this course,
because he is a candidate for re-election
this fall.
Zinc has never been one of the im
portant products of the State of New
York, but the hih price resulting from
the demand from Europe has caused
the development of zinc mines along
the Northern border. In recent
months a two hundred ton mill was in
successful operation in St. Lawrence
County according to a bulletin of the
Geological survey. This is one of
numerous instances in which the war
has developed latent resources hereto
fore considered of little importance,
but taken in the agregate amounting
to many millions of dollars in Ameri
can commerce. '
A tip from Washington is that the
government armorplate factory will be
established. It certainly will be if the
White House can have its way.
government armor plant would destroy
more private enterprise and would
provide more jobs for ' deserving
Democrats," both of which objects
being dear to the Wilsonian keaxt.
For Judge of the.31st Judicial Circuit
I K ' ' V ' :
f . H ' " . '
4
JOHN T. MOORE
1st. My platform is my official oath.
2nd. No man has ever boon refused a day in court
on account of not being able to give a cost bond.
3rd. The office of circuit judge belongs to the people
and I believe in staying on the earth with the people who
have the say as to their tcpresentative.
4th. I am no Cz;t, Empcrcr or King, and if anyone
wants to talk to me I sh;ill not cloak myself with a blanket
of self importance and stand aloof from the men that I have
lived among and associated with.
5th. I am in belter shape now than ever to serve the
people of this judicial district on account of my experience
as Judge.
6th. I am in favor of the local option law, and it
should be amended by our state legislature in order that it
might be successfully enforced.
7th. I am in favor of the parole law that was en
acted by our state legislature, and believe that no belter
law stands upon our statute books today.
8th. I have never had to terminate more than six or
eight paroles of boys sentenced to the penitentiary or re
form school since I have been Judge.
9th. I have forty bright boys now under parole that
have been sentenced to the penitentiary or reform school,
who today are living the lives of honest, honorable, up
right, law-abiding citizens. By sending them behind
prison walla, to be thrown in contact with men guilty of
the lowest crimes, they would have stood today as con
firmed criminals.
10th. My platform is to give every man's boy a
chance; build up and not destroy. Treat your neighbor's
boy as you would ask him to treat your own flesh and
blood.
11th. I believe in the brotherhood of man, and don't
believe in severing the home ties for political buncombe.
12th. If any man or boy comes before me steeped
with crime, who is a confirmed ctiminal, for such individ
ual there is no hope, and to him will be meted out the pun
ishment that he deserves.
It is for ycu, Mr. Voter, to say whether I have done
right or wrong in serving you in the capacity of Judge o
your circuit.
With nothing detrimental to say corfcerning my op
ponents, who have seen fit to undertake to criticise and
abuse me for no other purpose than I am asking for the
same office that they aspire to, I again solicit your sup
port for this office, satisfied that on the record I hav made
as Judge of your circuit you will give me your earnest con
sideration and hearty support.
Yours veiy truly,
JOHN T. MOORE.
Heard at the National Captal
In the first year of his administra
tion, President Wilson made a great
hulabloo about the "lobby." He sta
ted at that time that he would drive
very lobbist out ol Washington and
would have nobody interfering with
gislation in this country and that he
wanted to have a Iree hand," said a
prominent United States Senator.
"During the presmt session ol Con
gress we hive wittuessed on various oc-
cisions more lobbying by cabinet of-
ikers and men close the President,
thin in any administration in the his'
t )ry of the government. There has
never been a time when there was so
much attempted executive interference
interlerence with the legislative lunc
tions ol the government. We have wi
tnessed an administration lobby here
t iis session that is both 'invidious and
insidious."
Col. Harry S. New, ol Indinapolis,
Republican ranHiHate (or United States
Senator iu Indiana, at the coming
election, was a receut visitor at the
Cipitol, where he was warmly received.
Not only is Col. New optimistic over
t'le general outlook for
the Ret ub'iean p.irtv all over the
c Mintry, but he is certain tint his own
state and national tickets. Speaking
ol the situation he said: "I am confi
dent the Republican party will win in
in November. The people ol this
country are doing some thinking.
They know that the present prosperity
is unnatural and has been brought
about by conditions obsolutely growing
out of the war. In Indiana we will
have a Republican maj irity this fall.
We shall elect two Republican United
States Senators, more than half ol the
members o! the H use and a Republi
can Governor. The electoral vote
will also go to our party."
These are arxious days lor the Mis
souri delegation in Congress and the
situation in that state politically is be
ing discussed with great seriousness
and apprehension iu the Democratic
cloak rooms. There are severeal
Democratic Members ol the House
Irom that state who are already "scared
o it ol their boots" over the outlook.
The news they are confidentially ex
ptessing great anxiety over the possi
bility ol their reelection. Several ol
them are saying that they fear not on
ly their districts, but that the state it
self is going Republican.
The pairing of Vice President Mar
shall with Senator Reed of Missouri,
on the last senate vote on the motion
to reconsider the rej-.-ction of George
Rtiblee of New Hampshire, as a Mem
bers of the Federal Trade Commission,
is causing much comment and criticism.
Many of the older members of both
the House and Senate, state that it is
a most dangerous precedent and that
if the vote of the vice-president had
been a deciding one, that great and
sweeping legal questions would have
arisen as to the right to do this. Men
long in Congress state that the vice
President is not a member of the Sen
ate and that his only right to vote is
that prescried by the constitu.ion,
which is in case of a tie.
The recent election in the second
West Virginia district, in which the
administration took a hand, but was
deleated, still continues to be talked
about at the capitol and the Demo
crats still continue to be very touchy
when the event is mentioned in their
presence.
Republicans in Fine Shape in Missouri
Republicans in Missouri enter the
campaign, both state and national, in
splendid shape. General confidence
that prompts the rank and file of the
party to be tip and doing. Republi
cans in Missouri have especial inspir
ation to be awake and at work, and to
"stay right on the job" until the votes
are counted. That inspiration is born
of their confidence in and reliance op-
l on tneir leaders especially their nat
ional committeeman, Jacob L. Babler,
and the state chairman, T. W. Huk
ricde. Under such leaders no sincere
man could ce a laggard.
Mr. Babler, as chairman of the
methods and up-to-date good sense
along the most practical lines to the
organization of the party in the state
with the result that when he was cal
led to step up higher he had an effici
ent organization ramifying through and
reaching to ever county city, town,
hamlet and larming community. He
had every nook and corner, every
center and section, so close in touch
with headquarters that at a minute's
notice he could get into communica
tion with a reliable and active Repub
lican wherever he wanted to reach one
or many lor the purpose ol giving in
struction or receiving inlurmaiion.
Organization and efficiency were
brought to about aa near a state ol per
fection as it is possible lor human ag
encies to bring them; and Mr. Eabler
could safely turn his attention to the
work ol a national committee
man lor a party with a certainty that
he was leaving no half-done or un
finished work. It was his splendid
work a; ?n organizer of political forces
that caused his name to be mentioned
for the chairmanship of the Republi
can national committee, though Mr.
Babler himself had no thought of be
ing Ithus especially honored. The
good work and the energy he showed
in handling the state committee has
been carried into his work in .he nat
ional committee. This does not meau
that Republicanism in Missouri is going
to be the loser; rather, that the party
in the state is to be the gainer, since
as national committeeman Mr. Babler
will have a broader field in which to
exercise his abilities, and the state is to
have the fullest possible benefit.
Especially is Republicanism the
gainer from Mr. Babler's advance into
broader fields, since the chairmanship
of the state committee has passed
into such capa'ile hands as those of
T. W. Hukreide. This gentlemen,
from Warren County, is a most worthy
successor to Mr. Babler. It is difficult
to think of any other man in rhe whole
state so eminently qualified as he to
take up the work of captaining the
state committee just where Mr. Bailer
laid it aside, and carry it forward along
lines o! the same resultful kind. Mr.
HukrieJe has had long and active, and
especially earnest, experience in party
affairs. He knows Republicanism as
intimately and as completely as he
knows his own voting precinct, and it
is one of his genuine sources of pride
lhat, with all his activity in broader
fields, he has never for a minute since
he cast his first vote been out of close
touch with every voter in his precinct.
He has ceen through some fierce po
litical battles as precinct committee
man, and all through various official
party positions, and never has his own
precinct "gone back" on him. His
long experience and his thorough
knowledge ol politics and of people
eminently qualify him to succeed to
the state commirtee chairmanship.
Altogether, the party is in splendid
and most capable hands, and Missouri
Republicans have every reason to be
pleased with the outlook. Censor.
St. Louis.
The McAdoo junketing party re
turned from South America with the as
aertion that suspicion of the United
States has now disappeared from those
regions. We believe it. Having
looked upon McAdoo, having heard
his speeches and having witnessed his
affront to the President of Peru, we
are sure that the suspicions of Latin
America against us have now hardened
into grim certainty.
Moline (Ills.) Dispatch The Pres
ident ha3 a profound intellectual con
tempt for men who cannot see the
signs of the times." Yet, he wants to
to be renominated by the Democrats.
Greenfield (111.) Argus It is well
to sit down and consider what would
have happened to this old world if No
ah had been a cha'auqua lecturer in
tead of a man who believed in pre
paredness. Why can't every man in the county
take hold of the good road problems in
his own neighborhood? If each one
would, it would be only a short time
state committee, applied business until there would be do problem to it.
