The "Marble Hill, Press.
.Circulation, 1.2 OC
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, June 8, 1916.
No. 6.
Southeast News. 1
... 1
)k Itidff lndopndwnt j
The canning factory inaohintry
waa movrd from thin plnee to Jack
(ton, last week where it will bcopcr-'
ated this eaon. ' We are sorry 10
loose this enterprise but of course :
when we don't patronize home iu- j
dustry we can't t xpect anything only
failure on the part of the business
FrdenrkJn Ivroorrni-Newn-
Larger postal savings deports will
now lie accepted at ihe poMorTlce.
I his ia made possible by an im
portant amendment l the piwlal
savings act just approved by Presi-,
dent Wilson. A postal savings de
positor may now have an hccount
amounting to JI, 000 in hicn m-;
terest will 1 paid formerly $500
was the maximum amount he could i
have to credit. This enlargement
of ptal savings facilities will he
very gratifying to hHjatl" of de
positors who have already reached;
the old $500 limit and are aoximis
to entrust more of their saving to
Uivle Sam
F-.r.ekt I Vfti.wnMW'-N'f
Oor Buckhofn cor-esp .oWt this
week brings i the good new that
the Ozark Vsllev railroad n makmt,
arrangeownts to put tie on it tight
of way between Ccdc mxl Duck-!
horn It 1 eioerteil that th tie-
wtll W attributed right away
It to announced that theroe ,,,-...
built thai uinrner ' AJ !.,
eral deposits are kw' .. in
that ownnumiiy and ,.d b
built great deal of activity
while
iud&V Seta
SoiKKiKon
Come to the Bollinger County Inter-Denominational Sunday
School convention which is to be held at Glen Allen,, Mo., Saturday
and Sunday, June 17 and 18, 1916. Every Sunday school in the
county is requested to send delegates to this meeting.
Mr. Sterling L, Williams, whose name appears in the following
program is one of the state Sunday school workers. Hear him!
IMtOGItAM
Saturday morning
1 1(H) a m Registration of delegates
1115 " Praise service Rev. F. W. Mathews.
113") ' "Getting Ready to Tench'' Sterling L Williams
1 2 (Hi " Adjournment.
Saturday afternoon
2W p ni Praise service J. M Deck.
2.15 The superintendent and his work H A Fulton
235 " "Sunday School Aims" Sterling L Williams.
.105 " Hymn.
310 r -hing the Unpolished Troth" Prof Vaughau.
. " ' en Cnuferenee" ... Sti-rhnrf L William
h i l-i,
?r; j. .
Saturday es-euinjk
730 p. m. PraiM mk.'. Rev J. C. Morgan.
7 43 Appointment of committees. President John H Hardy
755 Hymn.
800 'Winning and Training the IWy". . .Sterling L Williams
Sunday morning
9:00
930
1030
10:40
10.50
11:10
1200
a rn Meeting of committees
Regular Sunday school.
Praise service. Lee Roy Crader.
Report of committees.
D-ciion of otTiifrs
"A Square Deal" Sterling L Williams.
Adjourtrtnerit
Sunday afternoon
130 p
140 '
2 .00
205 '
225 '
2 45
250 '
320
m Praise service Elery Zimmerman
Plans for the coming year. . . .President John li Marty.
Hymn.
"Misattms in the Sunday &-hool" . . Miss Grace Sullivan.
"The Lcal Field" Rev. George W. Graham.
Hymn.
"Out Into the Deep" Sterling L W illiams.
Adjournment
Ministers and Superintendents, you should attend the convention
yourselves and urge your people to come. ' ,
t ni We t ,".bat
da Bamtt and i t .ill crew wert;
digjjitql a well bt . k they d?wv.
emi a tub drpi. f- 'd ore aad other i
defxwita are known. -
In a recwit fcoe of the Cat Re-i
pubiK an there ajfrr.! an artkie
fivin aotr fct and figum to re-, ; ; :... . . . ..;
gard to the paving of tlx- okl gravel W(W browned anl carrie-l down the' both fr the bereaved family as well jwemt. that the elwtion should
ru0t letxttti Jcki ara.1 the ( ape a nuk, Ui&m was torn i as llie young man and his parent, not !e amnecteti with ttie primary
which are quite latereatuu!. rT Rob flnateii down llje I At tlie hwuest yesterday morning. It was tiniest ed that when other
riu'.riMMl, leiritrKph and telephone prop
Ttie. hhiiu.d he .J:ViiW into fijht ftqUHl
jiartu nrnl each townshtp ppon.ioneJ an
filial share.
Thai in view t the fart that there are
Riiiry miwu-rs in connen i. -n with the
1 rciie.l ttund isriue hch reijutre thi
epeniti;ure of time, mone y, ;!xr and
tnr'-iitiKiMiofj winch this Nxiy heiieres
rn.iy he ohtatne.1 with a materially de
cre.MKnl expetiw to the wxpyor uf the
county, and much heller ri.td for (he
!y mean'; . f the coun
r part thn, and with
A most deplorable accident or . perfecteil a iermanent organiatiou expense of the e let ion the ami- . ' '
icurml Tuehiy evening about 5 by electing J M Weiker cluiinnan. nutieemen from the different town- ,hil, ,hiv; 'mon s,.rt0ii "f.;i, ,h'
o'ekw k in Cae Girnrdeau wlien an J J Chandler vice-chairman and sin; s pleigei that they would
there is a imwe on ft to make atrfwk tiun,irrij ttrds and
coo rete or hlghwsv it The ; (Vf a jb ,,.Ki puiw
figure given bw that the amount j hmwrlf out H ws finuid rtvlUng
rjuirel to jw.ve the t"o-l woukl be j W) ttw jnk (l)i crrtk y mtnt :
taut S7O.0OO. and the interest ! neighbtr He says he didn't
this amount at S per rnt wauld w.t ! rnrr Uw imi)rif fnit hate-l to see
equal the sum mjuiml now tokeey: ttw M im mu SO(j,mnltie creek
up the rWl U is believed if the'
ro4nl was pave! there wmtM le;
virtually no evprnse for up keep in
many year j
DrtaJtuI Aiilint at Cape
the coroner's jury returned a verdict maulers were voted upon at pn-
tnat the death was an unavoidable nwry or general el--tions that the
mritlent Jackson Items people became confiiMHl and that
' fill such matters were almost iiivari-
ftootf Roads Lommitlce Heels ably defeated And after the mat-
The General Roads committee 'cr was diseusstsi fully it was con-
trovkied f ir at the nvnl meeting at eluded that the court W asket to
the county seat recently, met at the set the election for Thursday. July 20. ""'"""y :;p"nde,i
miinlv t-l.-rk'. uriKio Vtr.,1 iv nnA li! onW tl naif i-.mnlv I ho lJ eourt working
exjx-ne of the el-. tion the txm
niitieemen from the different town-
rrty i.uKiy rnn. ; ockw k in t ae Urordeau wnen an J j. uiamiser vHT-rnatrman ami sim pieugei mat mey woum see
Anton Zorllter. one of tta auto driven by Pwllas Hays, son of W. E Dickey secretary. This com- th.it no charges were made by the
frewive farniro ol Blue IStrd rHigf.! r jw J) Hays ami known to mittec is conipoani of three men .judce in their precincts This will
and his wife, were in iVrryviSle last fVTfy jWWU a Jackaon. struck ami in each township, and its duty is to do away with nearly nil of the ex-
Friday. They brought the wool frutn fm ttpi)U pauj Rdrt. a boy five year handle the campaign for the bond 1". ami tsides. airangemeiits
12 head of cheep to the market here; f - a, l)r MUersection of Inde-' i.sue ami to attemttu all the details. 1 will 1 made t see if the excnse
. i i .i i - - ' . . . . ....... . . .
- . . IIUV 11. .11". . .... ....... ... . " " . " - - - . . . ..... . ... ... ... ..... . - , 1
SivUJ. or 3tHc tMrtMmit HiW is kiiliiuJ the -tiild instantly, as eating the roads to be benefitted and an.i the other mn-essarv cxtHmses
the highest iw tlsey ever got ior..i. n-k ma. hroken and the arm. i to do ail other things as specified in cannot he arrant si there will
wool and they have been .)ift.tUW and snuud eidumn crushed ti e tedutiHM that were adoi ted not l- any expense to the iMimtv.
sheep ant! selling wont for Kmgj Ytmng Hays at llie time was tak-: at the general rmid meeting ' he court will meet on the lath of
nine, but the price under Wilson't j0J, 9 (faml Earl Mc Bride, to the Min-h interest was shown bv the 'June wjien the matter will he taken
up and the date set
The highway board now has in
22 txHinds of wool Anton siys that ijMi- Raker Uy .who, its.nd.hod Uen campaign of education the teople " h..nds twtitious containing the
he, as well as nil democrat, rn! standing on one corner of the street. wvMild amclude to suppirt the nano of 572 taxpayers, a-king that
lHk a sheep square In the face i iUrtr,j t0 rrttM diagonally ans propition the Nnd matter be submitttsl to
with'Mit making any apokIics other cticr and was knocked j The memU-rs of the committee theaters. The resolutions, which
While shearing the other day Anton ;,j0 by the machine Dallas Mvsjare as follows Un-arKY township, nmy U considered the platform on
ciHikin't help but occasionally look. j. jjj noi m (hf child until it was (John 1", Winters, J J. Chamilcr and whi. h the campaign for the btml
the iniMw-ent carrier of the thick, f .j. in fnt 0f the auto and he j Jim. H Zimmerman; Wayne, B. H..iil 1"' made, is priuted iu another
rich ami fleecy white, in the fjcejjhrrw 0n the brakes with full force, j Bollinger, Ed McKee and N. L oyif.
j bringiii the machine to a stop with
this, rotiv. M
Koads oonn.:
N" rHj',.-rite.!
tn work w .! h
ter in ci
bond ls;.r
should act
it fcbail !e
r.;ar.ace t!-e
isfue, i-i!'t.a.!i
m hi : Hi, M'eak
m tii rcnMaute a (.
;ioe; that the t 'miniv ,
if .ipfint .aid e.-n;n,i
u ar.l asuist it in a!! r:
;th the pr. in
r.neetion
and that trie Mild full
wm ! r.. n ! coiv.pi nsa; ;.ir.
te du'y of this ooir.ri,
e e:rii;irn f..r
iera.
oourt
!,;: let'
Mint -
Iti'i-Tl'.at
adminlstratkm l the higlf'st H'y ; latter home. As they swung into members present, and it was the
ever received tVe of the sheep had : p.jf f,,. IndepeiMlence strett the '.ipinion ol all that by means of a
touirwta tl wm J Anton SilVS thltt' IIiiU n K. ii il.I hn.1 lunt cj. miviii'ii
;-;i and ox
nd expert :
liistri'mtf l,:ira;i;'o and sue i
tiol! af. n ir.ay .-.Main to the v
ooiii'.H , and hi sern rs' . (
eampHiim of eduoati.m. Thai
; coluina.
with a friendly snyh-
rk Ki(J P.em in Jaekn'.n Ch-Bok. 'one of the front wheels still on
the
Filmw. W W. Patterson. U. Kinder
and Geo Fiker. Union, H. T. O'Kelley.
(ak Ridge witneed one of the 'body of the child. Various persons . C J. Sharrock and D.J. Mungle. w
9
s
nwt dangerotis storm Monday that ' saw the accident and hurried to the j W bstrwater. Mward (. rites. W . C
had been seen In- year. Robert spot, assisting to take the body to 't Bollinger ami James Manners; Ger
Crile was alnut drowned that j doctors oftice w here life was pro-j ma;i. Jacob Weiker. Columbus ...iy
eveoing He had been pKwing corn nounocd extinct It U said that the field and Jame P. Limbuigh;
on the back tide of the farm when 'machine was going at a moderate or ' Crooked Cnvk. J. M. Weiker and ',
the storm caught him. and sought ' slow rate ol speed at the timeof the . two others to lie named later; Lib-;
helter in an oki house until the accident. jerty. Herman urrink, SMney J.hn-
. I . . I TV. lift. La L.u mm tl.A Anlu . n r.t .J, ort ... A t Ainnin A .. .
storm was unwi ovrr. ur uiru i mu. .. , , ... v
. .i. , . i t t
itaitM to tne notise ana was caugnt ( jeiwc in, -u nii
by the creek. Rob had the faithful , the cement plant the family coming
old gray mule to the buggy, and j from Frederlcktown to Cape Girar
buggy and mule started dawn the j deau four years ago. The parents
creek. Rob tried to renie trie mule, I have two daughter a few years
wheh he became strangle! and hadlokier.
to save -tils own life. The mule' Ttat accident Is dreadful one,
ttood Roads tiond Issue
Resolutions
r, 'he del.-aten fr.m the vni.ni-
rnr:'- : ol HOilmcer eolirty, diti
t t aembied t r the purpose of
d' M'i- wy tid n-en of N-nmiiif '
the n1 of IVlimrer eoun'y, aftt-r July
eotin 'i-niiij the matter reeotviti er.d s j
fo', !'
That a prepowtion dhoulJ he Mihmit
ted l. ti e voters ".kinc them to author- .
I lie the isino cf bindi. up to the eon- ;
.t.ft'li.n! limit ih itn.l tit iiviftvl '
cinct and finame committee ami an j jn !,,;,!,, sa's nd hndte .Wrdinit
executive committee to assist injio the pronnioin of oecoon mlv to
conducting the campaign were alst i inoiuww of the ututeti of
That the proceed of mi4 bond ie
hould be sppoeiioTiMj to eeh township
in pmportion to its Mrl Tvuaiimi of
provided for.
It was the unanimous opinion of
the committeemen, and all named
above but about five or six were
reil and perwonwj property, and that the t e
prcee.l hM4 on the valuation ot the i avw
Will Mayfjeld
College
Marble Hill. Missouri.
Will begin its thirty-ninth
sesMon August 2S. l'.Uti
INCREASED FACULTY.
ENLARGED COURSE.
SPECIAL ADVANTAGES.
This is expevted to le the
greatest year in the history of
the school Quite a number of
students have already arrangd
for their cimrse during tlie full
term, and others are doing so
almost daily. At least 2t0 are
expected for the year. Cet
ready to come.
A catalog for the asking
A F. HENDRICKS. Pres.
with the. County eniitt, determine th
numher of inihiK of load in noh town
ship and in tne fount y Pi winch the
proeeodiH of the !iindn Khiuld ! applied,
where aid roads tire loci.'d. the cliKr
Mfter of im: rovi'inti ni., to he made, in
eludn.ir ilif t!oes:iry I indues and cui.
verw, and tne apprris ti i . . t . thereof;
to act in ennjunet ion nii t hi court in
nil tnuti cri. in c 'Mice1. on wi'h the bond
IMsue, in the i!ii'h;i! t: er i!, and in ull
mutters m c'lpiieetiun will ir.c ioi -iitinir,
planum);, env iver,!,';, ..'.ii'int; Kpeef.
eatio;i, aid ei.,t fMim.i'en nf r,(n!, eul
vertK and hndit, .ni ;n tne n i'ii-r of
irruditu, v v,' 1 i rir , 'un. lint: .'Hi' 1 other
Wise immoviiv the Mad of dimly,
to tlie end . -,At ! liic money n ill tie
enend'-d m tu- maimer provide)) by
law aad that ilm p.". pie may e.-i vaiuc
receive ! !' ,r .-very dollar it pcnd,, and
that ever) I i r in;,y Ii't'i'lV Its pro-
purt lonate ! ;ic of the prone'..; tiint
vaean'-ie. t ,.ch may occur in this eom
mi'.tee fhi'i-oi lie I'iiii-.i !iy the eo toe
iu'tiu)f with the Clint ,o i !it eic.i town-
i ship may ai ail times have iu p.c,fted
number of coiiimiueeriien, and thai this
jeomiiiit'ee may appoint mich siir.-e.im-j
mntees ait it may see Tt, '
That the 1T eem i-pecini rn id and
j uridtte lie hhoii'd he li-iii.ed v ..:.!:.
Tliat tlie central eommiltees of each
ot the jio.iliCai parlie be reipie!-d to
ne'i'i ,n ;niiit fM.in and adopt a :vko!u
nun favormo the iiond l-ue, and thai
each candidate '. rcjueHted to su( pun it.
Thui m order that Hie eounty ma he
at iittie or no expense m holding the
eieoiion for tin- ! mil ;wu; ti.at the
court hii-uM .ij p.:r.: iiidjree who will
make no . luirne. tor ihetr rvieeK, and
tnat arranemepij. tie made 10 .ave the
county as muci, of in.- miier f ene of
the election a posnitiie. That in order
to eflec! savins, the fencral roads
eommi'tee tiou..J work with the county
court in reeomtner.dinn appointments
for judged and eiftrks.
That in ordei to create a fund to tie
ud in ettipioymcspeHkerii.diHt.ritMittnf;
literature and earryim; on a eHmpaign
of education, a finance eonmiittee eon
siRtmjr of two men from ear-h precinct
uliouid be selwted to solicit RuVwcrip
tionn ?o that fotiii, unci th"t e"M town
Mrip should he jwsewed n amnunt in
proportion to its anse-ed valuation.
That we hope ail the schoui teachers,
ministers. !odco K -md orc.'mi7.tion, of
every kind, as wei! - all mdiviauais,
wi'.l mil -port the proposition, as it is, in
our opinion, the only way Holiir.j-er
county e:i ever et Lv ood roadi!..
S-ifired hy L''J men, oiu representing
cacti of the iirei.Miets it, me countv.
Prosectititik; Attorney McGee has
seort'ii .iiioiher victory for local op
tion A feu days ago he filed an
injunction suit gainst the railroad
and express company to eniom
! them from delivering intoxicating
liquor to persons in this county In
view of the fact that ilhis is a new
pnx'eedure a treat ileal of interest
was taken in the case, on last Thurs
day this case was tried in circuit
court oiiii as a result Judge Wnod
sule sustaineii the injunction. It
was shown in testimony that per
sons ordering liquor for unlawful
purposes fiiive the same vu; to
them in the names ()f futitious iT-
; sons and in care of draymen, who
! go to the dep.ii, get the liquor and
deliver it lo the persons ordering it
and in s his way concealing from
the o!!i.a rs the fact that the are in
fact receiving liquors to sell The
injunction as ranted wi.l stop this
kind of business- and restrains the
railroad atn! express coinpacy froi;.
delivcriiit. la ;i;i person other thaa
the one to w horn the liquor is ac
tually cotisuncii, so that if a person
ha-- a shiptiicu: of hquor son; in
an otlit-r name than his own he
cm i get it. nor can any other (er
siti get it for him. and should any
person got such a shipment and de
liver it to the person ordering it he
would himself he liable to prosvu-
tion under the lixal option law.
The order alo enjoins the eompan
ies frviiit delivering liquor to lst-
'leggets and also restrains them
from making delivers to liys uu
der the age oj 21 years IVnt
CiMinty I ss
No. 666
Thn it rrwrrtr-tiea rtpmi fmtiatty
nr MALARIA or CHILLS fCVER.
Irr or . do-ea will brtk mmj Cm. mmd
K tekta vs m toaie tha Frnt wtll
Ktra. It m ea Km Iitn t-nn tdaa
Cstowd mmi totW trip wschs,
