0
VOLUME XIV.
OOOKKVILI.K, TKN.NKSSKK. THUKSI'AY. JUNE 8, 1916
NUMBER 23
o
Q
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
The Southern convention of the In
ternational Bible Students' Association
will meet in Nashville August 24 to 27.
The first annual convention of the
Btate B. Y. P. U. was held in Chatta
' nooga, with 500 visitors and delegates
present.
There are now eighty-five registered
automobiles in Warren County. At
least fifty are owned by citizens of Me
Minnville. Ninety-eight young men and women
received degrees at the graduating ex
ercises of the University of Tennessee
at Knoxville.
Baptists in Bristol expect to start a
campaign for $50,000 for Intermont
College, the Baptists' school for girls
located in that city.
Mrs. L. F. Johnson died at Bristol
aged 99 yearn. Sh was the widow of
Lafayette F. Johnson, a pioneer busi
ness man of Bristol, who died in 190
at the age of 92.
The Southern Railway Company has
purchased HO acres of land for the stor
age of newly manufactured cars at
Lenoir City. If is understood that
tracks will be laid capable of handling
1,045 cars for storage.
Three persons were reported killed
53 injured and property amounting to
thousands of dollars damaged when
. cyclone of great intensity passed over
a territory covering about 100 miles
about Memphis.
The family of Vernon Booth had a
miraculous escape from death when
lightning struck his residence, nine
miles east of Brownsville. The light
ning struck the kitchen and complete
ly demolished the stove and flue and
also splintered the porch.
The heavy construction work on the
rebuilding of three miles of the N., C,
St. L. Railway at Burns has been
completed and the crews will be trans
ferred to Camden, where like work
will be continued. It will probably be
twelve , months before trains will be
running over the new road.
Wandering off to meet daddy, who
had promised to bring the little tot
some candy on his return home from
Rockwood, the little two-year-old son
of Mr. and Mrs. Henry French, who
live at Pine City, in Cumberland Coun
ty. fell into riney Creek ana was
drowned. ,
The past two weeks have been busy
days for the tobacco growers of the
black patch in the eastern part of the
state. A good deal of tobacco has been
put out and all of the crop would have
been set if the land had been ready
when the season came and the plants
on some beds had been some larger.
A total of $140 in premiums is of
fered this year by the West Tennessee
Agricultural and Mechanical Fair, to
be held at Jackson the week beginning
September 11, for community club ex
hibits, . which will include boys' corn
club and girls' canning club exhibits
Extra good premiums are also offered
for all kinds of live stock.
v Since, the passage of the state game
and fish laws and of more recent date
when it became known that the stue
was going to establish a game propaga-
tory farm on lands donated for that
purpose, there have been offers of sev
eral fine tracts of land in different
counties seeking the distinction of
possessing the game farm.
The purchase at court sale of the
Riverside Woolen Mills means the re
opening of another industry for Knox
ville. This mill has been closed for
two years. More than 100 persons will
be employed. The ,11118 were pur
chased by the Jefferson Woolen Mills
of Jefferson City for $36,100. They will
be put in operation as soon as possible.
Sportsmen in and around Memphis
as well as all of the territory adjacent
to the Mississippi River are much
pleased with the announcement made
by the biological survey of the Depart
ment -of Agriculture that duck' shoot
ing will be permitted on the river dur
ing next spring. None has been al
lowed during the pst two years.
Mrs. W. C. White, of 2119 Colliseum
street, New Orleans, was killed; her
son, J. J. White", 14 years old; J. P.
Tyner, 15 Dallas avenue, Nashville;
his wife and son, J. D. Tyner, 12 years
old, were Injured when Mr. Tyner's
automobile .was struck by an inter
urban car from Franklin on the Frank
lin road, near Nashville.
, President P L.Harned has called
the members of the State Board of
Education to meet at the Capitol, Nash
ville, at 9 o'clock Tuesday morning,
June 13, to elect faculties for the nor
mal schools, to consider the erection
of a young men's dormitory building
at the West Tennessee School, and to
transact such business as may come
regularly before the board.
The state board of control has
agreed to . furnish Hamilton- and
Marion Counties one hundred or more
convicts to work on the Dixie High
way. The men can be used until De
cember 1, when they will have to be
returned. Part of them will come
from Brushy Mountain and the bal
ance from the main prison at Nash-
Till.
As the result of an investigation
that has just been made in East Ten
nessee by a committee composed of F.
X. N'oscbang, general president ; Jacob
Fischer, general, secretary-treasurer,
and J. C. Shanessy, general organizer,
representing the Journeymen Baiters'
International ("nion of America, an in
stitution for the treatment of tubercu
losis may be established in East Ten
nessee at a cost of a million dollars.
Insurance of Its profits against loss
through the destruction of its build
ings by fire to the amount of $900,000
Is carried by the Tennessee Copper Co.,
and as a result of the fire which de
stroyed its trinitrotouluol plants sev
eral weeks ago it has filed a claim
with insurance companies for- $735,000,
covering loss of profits at $3,000 per
day for 245 days, the time it estimates
will be required in which to rebuild
and get its plant in operation.
Governor Rye has named seven phy
sicians to represent Tennessee at the
national convention . of alienists and
neurologists at Chicago June 19-23.
The convention, will have to do with
crimes and insanity N and methods for
lessening it. The following are the
delegates appointed by Governor Rye?
Drs. C. P. McNabb and W. A. Austin,
of Knoxville; A. W. Harris and J. W.
Stevena, of Nashville; S. T. Rucker
and G. C. Petty, of Memphis, and L. E.
Ragsdale, of Williamsport.
If State Game and Fish Warden W.
D. Howser can have his way and the
project is looked upon with favorable
attention, Reelfobt Lake will be turned
Into the largest fish hatchery in the
world and Tennessee and the South
will have little cause to fear for a
shortage of fish. It is contended that
Reelfoot Lake is an ideal location and
is admirably fitted for this work. An
other reason for casting eyes upon it
for this purpose is that the task of
making it into' a giant fish hatchery
can be undertaken at a slight cost.
The Pilgrim Congregational Church
at Chattanooga is faced with a peculiar
problem. Recently the church pur
chased the Bijou Theater and convert
ed it into a house of worship, and this
left the city without an available opera
house, the other two old theaters being
dismantled some time ago. The Bos
ton Opera Company wants to come
here for engagement and has made application-
to the officials of the church
for authority to use the theater-church
for the performances, and this board
is now wrestling with the question-.
Prof. W. W. Carson, instructor In
civil engineering for the past thirty
one years, has resigned his chair at
the University of Tennessee. He is 71
years of age and has decided to retire
to private life, though he will be re
tained ' as emeritus professor. Na
than W. Dougherty, remembered best
for his fame as a football star in the
days when Tennessee could boast of
standing right along with the best in
the business, was elected assistant pro
fessor in civil engineering and will
ultimately be given the chair vacated
by Prof. Carson.
A British army officer who veils him
self under an assumed name visited
Chattanooga inspecting a large num
ber of 6.(i-inch shells being made by
the' Colu'mbia Iron Works for the al
lies in the European war. The com
pany was not equipped for making
shells when the order came some
months ago, but at once began work
on the necessary machinery and has
now one of the best equipped factories
for making the particular kind of j
shells of any plant In the country. The i
company has on hand a large quantity
of shells ready for shipment as soon
as the inspection is completed. '
Trezevant is now assured of a high
school, according to the decision of the
Supreme Court. During the last ses-.
sion of the Legislature a bill was
passed creating a special high school
district at this place and levying a tax
to maintain the school. During the
recent session of the school, whan the
county trustee was preparing to collect
the taxes, he was enjoined from doing
so by local citizens and the lower court
ruled against the school board, and the
case was anpealed to the Supreme
Court and the higher court reversed
the decision of the lower court and
ruled that the law was constitutional.
, The 1916 strawberry season has end
ed at Trezevant. The yield thi3 year
was the biggest on record. There were
about forty cars of this fruit shipped
from the local market. These ship
ments contained about 17,000 crates,
or some' 250,000 quarts of berries,
which brought to the growers more
than $20,000 and to the pickers about
$5,000. This crop as usual was picked
largely by women and .children, and
the money was distributed so well that
there were but few families in the
community that did not receive some
benefit. Growers will soon begin to
ship their blackberries, and this crop
is also a good payer. '
The old courthouse in Greeneville
has served Its time and in a few days
will be torn away to give place to a
new and modern building. This old
courthouse was standing and serving
the purposes for which it was con-
ructed when Andrew Jackson re-
tlrel from the presidency and returned
to NashvIKe by way of Greeneville. He
eturned, not by railroad, for there
were r.cne, but by a carriage with a
liveried driver, ana was entertained In
Geeeneville by William Dickson in a
house which still stands only a few
doors from the old courthouse. From
this courthouse Andrew Jackson was
taken to his last resting place. -
h j -j. r
First Presbyterian Church Where
are being held chis
.
. FIRST COUNTRY LIFE CAMP
OF THE PRESBYTERY OF THE
CUMBERLAND MOUNTAINS,
Cookeville, Tennesse, June 8 13
All sessions in First" Presbyterian
Church, Cookeville, Tennessee.
me ires Dytery win convene on me
evening of Thursday, June 8th and
will hold further sessions on the mor-
nings of Friday the ninth, and Satur-
day the tenth.
Sessions of the Country Life Camp
will be held on the afternoons and ev-
enings of Friday, Saturday and Sun-
day, and Monday and Tuesday morn-
ing8.
The speakers promised, in addition
to members of the Presbytery of Cum-
berland Mountains and of the Synod
1. Keffer, Division of Extension, Uni-
versity of Tennessee.. Rev. Jesse
Halsey, 7th Presbyterian Church, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio. Mr. William A. Schoen-
feld, Cooperative Extension work in
Agriculture and Home Economics, for
Tennessee.
Miss Geneva Conway, Cooperative
Extension Work in Home Economics
for the state of Tennessee. Mrs.
John S. LeFevre, Social Worker, Re -
vere. North Carolina. Dr. J. C. Gray
of Peabody College, and J. Sterling
Presbyterian Manse Aside from bel
rooms are used as a social center
DIAMOND FORM THE SKY
On Saturday afternoon and evening
the closing episode of The Diamond
Prom The Skv will lx shown at. the
strand. On account of the great
popularity of the serial, every-body is
tonal
Jajf
Business and "Patriotism
- A Nonpartisan Appeal to the Nation
Tht White House
Washington. April 21, 1916
T$ the 'Business Men f America:
i w 1 BESPEAK your cordial co-operation in the patri- S
tjt 1 J otic service undertaken by the engineers and chem
SfsSSi ists of this country under the direction of the Indus-
V-"i-"J trial Preparedness Committee of the Naval Consulting ijj
Board of the United States.
The confidential industrial
supply is intended for the exclusive benefit of the War and g
Navy Departments and will be used in organizing the indus- j
trial resources for the public service in national defense. H
At my request the American
the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of
Electrical Engineers and the American Chemical Society are
gratuitously assisting the Naval Consulting Board in the work of
collecting this data, and I confidently ask your earnest support
in the interest of the people and government of the United
States. Faithfully yours, -
COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS OF THE
NAVAL CONSULTING BOARD OF THE UNITED STATES
in co-oDmtio wifi
The Anmcii Society ai GJ EMinm Tht
ThaAo
i at Minma auwefs l
The A nria
Butt
jiiiiiiiiiM
AAvarOtMButt MlMd by th ASSOCIATED ADVKRflSlNQ CLUBS OV TBM
WORLD and pufcUshad y thai aawapapar frv '
i -
I
I
th e Sessions o? the Country Life Camp
week and part of next
. .
. T .. '
Moran of Washington, D. C, are ex-
pected. Miss McKenzie and Mr. Har-
rison, County Farm Agents of Putnam
county, Tennesspe, will he on hand.
The Day's Work
The plan of each day's work is as
follows ;
p.m. Bible and Church Manage-
it Rev. Jesse Halsey, Rev. J. H.
2
ment Kev. Jesse Halsey, Kev. J. H.
miner, u. u.
3 p. m. Rural Education and Re-
ligious Education Lectures Messrs.
Schoenfeld, Gray, Harrison, Keffer,
and Wilson.
4 p. m. Agriculture and Home Ec-
onomics, Lecturers, Prof. Keffer, Mr.
Schoenfeld Mr. Harrison, Miss Con-
way, and Mrs. LeFevre.
Popular Evening Meetings'
' The public is invited to meetings In
the evening, to be addressed by Prof.
Keffer, Rev. Jesse Halsey Mr. Scho-
Fevre and others. ,
Dr. Warren H. Wilson will preside
in the Country Life Camp sessions
Monday morning if not used by the
Presbytery for legislative sessions,
will be devoted to a popular survey
of the eleven counties making up the
Cumberland Mountains.
The final session will be held on
Tuesday morning.
1 On Sunday morning the members
of the conference will attend the
churches of their choice.
mm:
ng the Pastor's Residence, Its spacious
for various church activities.
anxious to see what becomes of the
magnificent stone that has been such
a bone of contention, and the cause
of so much activity among those de
siring it. Be on hand and see it
finished.
'
inventory you are asked to
Society of Gvil Engineers, 11
American Socktr rf MeekaKal Eaajnm
be American mamts a cjecrnw r niiaw
Cknm ral Soorly
Vi Weal OTASlraet. New Vera
j TEACHERS ASSIGNED
The following is a tentative list of
i teachers selected for the elementary
. schools of Putnam county for the
I next year.. This list is subject to
, change at any time before schools.
: begin should the Board of Education
think it best to do so.
The employment of te teachers
.named below depends also on their
i attendance at the Teachers' Institute
jin this county, or some summer
j school, and their making certificates
; in the state examinations. It Is quite
likely that some vacancies will occur
i before the opening of schools, and a
few more teachers wil' be needed. It
( was with much regrets that the Board
could not give employment to all who
had applied. t
- urst district: vvnitsons vnapei,
F. N. Billingsley; Salem, Willette
. Hutcheson; Sycamore, J. M. Phy;
j Hi- tt:k o o nv,i,.i,ni. Okll VI
; fire o. o. -UKmmu, o.up.f,,
H ShiDlev ,'
Rg District- Mt Hermon
becona District. Mt. Hermon,
iWrd Little; Bridge, Hillary Essex;
i Lovelady, Tolbert Thompson.
Third District: Macedonia, Emily
" ?Ile j"
well: Browns Mill, Whitley Flatt;
" ""'"j "-
ury vaiiey, rancie myers; m-umoe-
loe. Martha McCormick.
Pnl,P(h m-trint -vrrhi t r t
, XT , ,,' '
phens; Board Valley, Haskell Henry;
Pleasant Kidge, J. D. Scarbrough-i
Glade Creek. G. C. Robinson.
Fifth District: Walnut Grove, J. N.
' , . , ' ,
I McCIoud, Zella Borden; Mill Creek,
Lula Maxwell; Rocky Point, F. M. ;
1 paui
j gixth Dlstrict:-Brotherton, Edgar :
Phillips ; Dougfes Chapel, Margaret
f Kuykendall ; Shady Grove, Mary
'Choat; Mt Pleasant, Ada Rockwell,
, V(mth District: Double Springs,
i 11 A '
j"OHWe i-roum; crown, raauie rouicn
Pippin, E. E. Jaquess. j him to the life beyond about ten years.
Eighth District: Bald Hill, Newt-1 Services were conducted by Rev.
on Nash; Boiling Spring, J. W. Hick-' Brown, while Lafayette Quarles and .
ey; Thomas, Arlen Pendergrass; 'Jere Whitson paid tribute to the char
Pleasant View,' Chas. Dalton; Ozion, acter of their deceased friend.
C. K. Flatt. Four children survive, R. L. Farley.
j Ninth District: Buffalo Valley,
Will T. Sewell, Essie Scudder.
Tenth District: Alle"'" Chapel, J.
S. Leftwich; Sadler, Dona Boyd;
New Salem, L. E. Flatt.
Eleventh District: Hopewell, J. T.
Richardson, Lois Leftwich; Denny's
Seminary, Etmo Jared; Rock Spr'ng,
Grady Hughes; Gentry, Solon Left
wich, Georgia Webb Jared.
Thelfth Districts Vaden, Lola
Hughes; Jared, Lena Whitaker.
Thirteenth District: Silver Point,
I. M. Medley, Etta Leftwich; Carr'SfuH stature of a man in all things. He
Chapel, Benton Worley, Stocia Win- was scrupulously honest in all his
free. dealings, charitable and free hearted
Fourteenth District: Thorn Hill, 'at all times. He was a leader in his
P. A. Copeland; Meadow Creek, Mel- community and will be sadly missed
vine C. Huffines.' j by a large circle of friends.
Fifteenth District Forest Hill, Jes- r i rTiTV iToTi Cunt? is
. ,,.. Ti v. t . AGRICULTURAL WORK
sie Gilliam; Bangham, Nannie Rock- ,, . ,r. , . x . .
iw t s T . iin... The West Virginia department of
well.' Fair View, Lee Grimsley; White ' ... , . .
tt H n j agriculture will send two represenU-
Hall. Thurman Owen. L , ... .
a . w m o s ti lives to Tennessee for the purpose of
Sixteenth District: Samaria, Bee-!. . " -
cher Gentry; Bussell, Mary Ellis:
Oak Grove, Jessie Maxwell; . Ensor,
Chester Patton, Myrtle Mitchell.
Seventeenth District: Boma, Elmo
Nichols, Lena Fisher; Brown, J. R. j
Clayton; White, Douglas Nichols. j
Eighteenth District: Bloomington j
I. E. York, Notie Proffltt; Free Union, '
Isham Rogers. ' j
Nineteenth District: Algood, T. W.I
Kittrell, Sallie Bilbrey. Allle Scudder, '
Lula M. Kittrell, Zola Phillips.
Twentieth District: Baxter, W. A. '
Beaty, Mrs. Shanks, Eddie Braswell, !
Eulah Maxwell; Ensor, R. L. Richard-,
son.
Colored Schools Cookeville, Geo.
W. 'Drew; Algood, Ben Hill; Rock
Springs, Dora Seward; Martins Creek,
M. E. Jones; Cane Ridge, Birdie L.
Officer.
J. M. HATFIELD, Sec.
'
NEW MONEY COMING
A lot of brand new silver coins are
teoming. Beginning July 1 new dimes, by Miss Finiey. The next meeting
j quarters and half dollars will be 0f the society will be with Mrs. Co
minted, the designs being different ' mer Cannon Tn"e 12, at. 3 o'clock
from any heretofore made. The Her- sharp.
I aid hopes everybody may get a nice
lot of the new money. HEADQUARTERS LOCTAED HERE
RIGHT YOU ARE has opened district headquarters in r
A spirit of envy and Jealousy be- Cookeville and placed Rev. Virgil E. :
tween towns as well as individuals is Jernigan, a splendid young man, In
to be deprecated, but a spirit of good- charge of this work which covers the
natured rivalry is all right. There counties of Putnam, Clay, - Overton,
should be no friction between Sparta Pickett, Jackson, White and Van Bu
and Cookeville. A friendly, neighbor- ren. The work of this national organ
ly feeling is more conducive to the ization is in establishing and maintain
welfare' of both towns than envy and ing Sunday schools in isolated place,,
jealousy. Sparta extends (he glad and in stimulating and encouraging
hand of fellowshln to Cookeville. thos that -are not very strong. We
Sparta News.
FARMERS MEETING , ' work In this Held.
A field meeting will be held on the j Rev. J. D. Kennedy, who It will be
farms of B. C. and S. C. Huddleston remembered delivered a very Interest
of the Salem community at one o'clock ing lecture on Bible history In Cooke
Tuesday, June 13. The members of ville about two years ago accompanied
the Salem Seed Club and Salem Corn Bro. Jernigan here,and they both hava
i Club are especially requested to at-
.tend. Everybody Invited.
BLAIR HARRISON, j
j County Agent. J
Mt. View Lodge No. 179, I O O F
held a very harmoniou moeting on
June 3 1916 j H McCulley, N O
presiding with some 33 brothers In
attendance. Quite a lot of routine
business was disposed of '
j Brother C. Bradford was reported
to about as ast week firo j H
york was reported much worse
, Bro. D. B. Johnson was granted a
transfer certificate to Gainesboro
Lodge., Mrs. Dank Garrison iiad)
the mlsf0rtune of losing her cow by
lightning last Friday night
Bra j M Judd gave a Bynopslg
of his trip west He saw tne Ele
phant on horsebiick'. Saw more
people than ever before in his life'
u was certainlv a sight-seeine trio
6 V
an(j one that was caIculatf,d to m.
t . ,
' T " f f"
ficers was (hen taken up re8UltinK
, in the eiection of D. E. Slagle, Noble
loranrt- w v rrr vt rw. t
: tj Mnw, " c J n' A
i West, Treasurer. The Installation!
totake p)ace th(4 flm meetlng ,
totake place the first meetine
jiv, our nwminHs.1 i.vWn ni
lt- 1
1 T, meeting, ai
I whIch tlme a ful1 attendance is hop-
ed for.
HOWARD FARLEY
Howard Farley died at his home
near Newark, White County, May 31,
1916, in his 82d year. He served
throughout the Civil war in the Con
federate army, being attached to Dib-
( rell g regiment, in the commissary dej-
j partment. He had lived at Newark
for 50 years. Burial was made at the
Dyer graveyard, where he was laid
L oo, k,,. , . , .
- " wu
. of Cookeville, Mrs. H. D. Whitson of
Cheatham county, L. P. Farley and ,
Mrs. S. L. Williams of White county.
After the , war Mr. Farley spent
some time in developing a saddle,
and made some money out of manu
facturing them. Later he became In
terested in the lumber business, mill
ing, and breeding of thoroughbred
live stock. He was successful in all
his business undertakings and amass
ed a comfortable fortune.
Howard Farley measured up to the
inspecting the work being done in
this state under the head of co-operative
extension work In agriculture '
and home economics. One of them,
H. S. Vandervort, assistant state
agent, will be in Putnam county Juno
12, 13 and 14.
The fact that Putnam "county was
thus selected not only shows that we
are attracting attention generally, but
speaks highly for the ' work of Prof.
Blair Harrison, our capable county
agent. No county has a harder work-'
ing or more successful agent than -Putnam,
and our farmers are taking
much interest in his work, .striving to
and actually making headway in mak
ing the soil more productive.
- LADItS AID SOCIETY
!, - A delightful meeting of the Ladies
I Aid Society was held Monday after- '
DOon with Mrs. Sid Carr. After the
business of the society was disposed
'0f a delicious two course menu was
! served by the Misses Carr, assisted
! The American Sunday School Union
are glad to have Bro. Jerpigan with us
I wtA rtnh tViv film mnch aiiccAB In his
dUU " ' M AW uijjj '
gone to VanBuren county for a week's
campaign. .". '..',
qq your trading m Cookerflle where
yon can get wbat you want
