THE BARRE
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 72.
BARIIE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
DAILY
r
BREACH WIDENS:
TWO TICKETS
SEEM SURE
At Outset of Second Day's
Sessions of Republican and
Progressive Conventions,
It Became Apparent That
Prospects of Peace Were
Farther Away Than Yes
MAY CALL ROOSEVELT
: BEFORE DELEGATES
On the Republican Side, It
I Was Proposed to Bring
Him in as Pacificator but
Not Till He Had Declared
Himself Out of the Run-
1 ning for the Nomination
- Chicago, June 8. The rumor circulat
ed last night that Hughes had sent word
. to his campaign managers that he would
' not accept the Republican nomination un
less it comes from a united party was re
vived to-day. It was denied by Frank H.
Hitchcock.
Chicago, June 8. The Republican and
, Progressive national convention opened
'their second (lay's active work to-day
with the former convening at 11 o'clock
and the latter at 2 o'clock, while the
fight for supremacy which would bring!
harmony was waged without cessation
by some of the leaders. One certain
clear-cut result which pushed its way up
through the maze of reports, rumors and
pronouncements waa the fact that Jus-
" tice Hughes became stronger from hour
to hour. Developments of the past 24
' hours made it plain that neither con
vention would come to the point of mak
ing a nomination before Friday, and pos
sibly the nominations might be delayed
' beyond that time. I
' Meanwhile the discussion of possible
peace and fusion of the two parties as
sumed more concrete trend, and the ru
mor became persistent that Roosevelt
might come to Chicago and appear be
lore conventions m the role of pacifl
cator. Republican leaders discussed the
.. proposal to invite Roosevelt and decided,
' it was said, that if the colonel was pre
pared to declare himself out, of the eon
test for the nomination and to enter into
anagreement for the selection of one of
the Republican candidates the invitation
would be forthcoming. '
Contrary to this view, leading Progress
sives declared that Roosevelt would be
liomh.ated by the Progressive conven
tion, regardless of what was done by the
Republicans. Three days' rain, putting a
stop to all outdoor activities, has had a
depressing effect upon many delegates
,and the result has developed a strain of
belligerence.
V As the political leaders gathered it be
tame more and more apparent that there
would be two tickets in the field. Victor
Murdock, chairman of the Progressive
rational committee, in summing up the
"situation said: "Well, we left the door
open and the Republicans don't seem to
be coming in.
That was his reply to inquiries as to
whether there remained any prospects of
.harmony. Republican leaders, too, dis
counted the success of the peace talk
saying that action was delayed so long
that a minority of the delegates had al
ready decided to proceed without regard
to any third party and nominate Hughes.
Representative Gardner of Massachu
petts, who was defeated for Republican
delegate-at-hirge from Massachusetts on
the Roosevelt ticket, pleaded with Pro
gressive leaders to-day to bring Roose
velt on without delay.
Republicans Make Organization Per ma
nent.
The Republican convention was called
to order again shortly before 11:30
o'clock. After prayer by Monsignor
Francis O. kellev, the reports of the ere
dentials committee were received and
adopted, and it was voted to make the
temporary organisation permanent. Soon
after the convention had assembled the
rumor became current that Roosevelt had
telegm plied to reserve rooms at a local
hotel. '
NOMINATE MAN
TO PUT THE NATION
WHERE IT BELONGS
Is Advice of Theodore Roosevelt to Re
publicans and Progressives De
cries the Wilson Influ
ence. Oyster Bar, June R. Colonel Roosevelt
w,H go to Chicago if the Republican con
vention deire him to address it. This
he announ.-ed to-day in a reply made to
an invitation received last night from
Senator William B. Jackson of Maryland,
atking him to visit Chicago.
Roosevelt declared in bi answer that
ha hoped both Republican and Progres
sive would nominate a man who, if elect
ed, won! J pUc the nation where it he
lore by making it true to itself and.
therefore, true. t all mankind. Presi
dent Wilson, he paid, had "rendered hi
y eor e the most eil service that can he
lenlered ETeat detnorra. v."
.donel I;oeve't Mid that the d.ffer
rr.. that line divided nH merely F.e
faWKin an.! I r..cTe - t;t pond
a ! fihade of r!;tiol he
ir' -t v r!i r-t Sn? wVn own pared 1
with the issues now demanding decision
issues of unified Americanism and na
tional preparedness."
WOMAN SUFFRAGE
WAS ACCEPTED
BY REPUBLICANS
Committee on Resolutions Voted 26 to 21
in Favor of Including Such a Plank
in PlatformRejects Pro
hibition. Chicago, June 8. The Republican com
mittee on resolutions, by a vote of 26 to
21, decided to incorporate in the plat
form a plank endorsing the principle of
woman suffrage. ' This was contrary to
the action of the sub-committee, which
voted, 5 to 4, against a woman suffrage
plank. The committee also voted against
the inclusion of a prohibition plank.
The sub-committee adopted a plank
respecting relations with Mexico, offered
by Senator i Fall of New Mexico, which
is a strong attack oil the administra
tion's policy. Other planks touching
upon labor, Americanism, national de
fense and other questions were adopted
in a form intended to meet Progressive
sentiment. Planks for the recall and
initiative and referendum were rejected
bv the sub-committee.
Concerning Mexico the platform refers
to the deplorable conditions existing
the result of the Washington policy and
pledges the Republican party to provide
absolutely adequate protection to citizens
in and near the borders, of Mexico and
promises aid in the restoration of peace
and order in Mexico.
The preparedness plank will declare
both for military and industrial prepar
edness. The platform contains a strong
declaration for the adoption of a system
ot military training. I he restoration ot
a protective tariff is declared to be es
sential to the prosperity of the nation
The platform declared in favor of a mer-
chant marine by subvention and such
other proper legislation, the vessels to
pass under the control of the government
in an emergency. Another plank reaf
firms the Monroe doctrine and declares
for the restriction of immigration
through the literacy test, as advocated
by organized labor.
In order to meet the views of the Pro
gressives some of the social justice
planks of the 1012 Progressive platform
were incorporated, among them a pro
vision favoring the enforcement of child
labor and women's hours legislation in
factories doing interstate business.
FRENCH CLING
TO OUTSKIRTS
OF FORT VAUX
Paris Official Report Admits
Capture of Second Strong
hold Northeast of Verdun,
the Works Having Been
Pounded into Ruins by the
Heavy Bombardment and
Made Untenable
OPPOSED PREPAREDNESS.
SEVEN DAYS' FIRING
ACCOMPLISHED IT
VERMONTERS FARE WELL.
In Assignment Of Positions at National
Conventions.
Chicago, June 8. The Vermont dele
gations to the Republican and Progres
sive national conventions are faring well
in assignments. Theodore N. Vail, who
has been elected chairman of the Ver
monters, has been made a member of the
committee on resolutions. Ex-Govermr
George H. Proutj and John T. Cushing
have been named on the committee to
notify candidates of their nominations.
Guy W. Bailey, the Vermont secretary
of state, has been placed on the creden
tials committee, and F. W. Babbitt is a
member of the committee on permanent
organization. Earle S. Kinsley Jias been
re-elected national committeeman from
Vermont. -
In the Progressive convention Prof.
Raymond McFarland of Middlebury col
lege is on the committee on resolutions
Dr. H. Nelson Jackson has been re-elect
ed national committeeman from Ver
mont.
French Are Still Occupying
Trenches to the Right and
to the Left of the Works
German Attacks on Them
Having Thus Far . Been
Unsucessful - Comparative
Quiet West of Meuse
Paris, June 8.Heavy fighting contin
ues in the vicinity of Fort Vaux, north
east of Verdun. The war office report
to-day says that French troops still oc
cupy the outskirts of the fort as well as
the trenches to the right and the left of
the works. The loss of the fort itself,
of which intimation waa-given in last
night's report, is conceded. The an
nouncement says the fort was abandoned
after it had been reduced to a heap of
ruins by the Incessant bombardment of
seven days. The German attacks on the
adjacent positions have thus far been un
successful. '
West of the Meuse intermittent can
nonading was carried on last night.
LUTSK REPORTED EVACUATED.
Austrians Reported to Have Given Up
Fortress in Volhynian Triangle.
London, June 8. The Austrians have
evacuated Lutsk, one of the fortresses of
the Volhynian triangle, according to in
formation received by the Russian em
bassy in Rome, says a Central Xews de
spatch from that city.
COMES TO MONTPELIER
Green Mountain Association of Univer
salis! s Also Ftvor Prohibition.
Bethel, June 8. The Green Mountain
Association of I'niversalistg held an im
portant and well-attended meeting at
Barnard Tuesday afternoon and evening
and yesterday forenoon. Before adjourn
ment resolutions were adopted opposing
"preparedness and militarism" and fa
voring "local, state and national prohi
bition.
Officers were elected for the ensuing
year as ronowst rreaiuent, Kev. u. A
Simmons of Barnard; vieer president;'
Kev. A. n. BiacKrorrl of Kochester; secre
tary, Rev. V. M. Martin of Gaysville;
treasurer, Rev. II. L. Canfield of Wood
stock. ' .
"The preachers of convention sermons
were Revs. If, A. Parkhurst of Spring
field and F. Jfi, Adams, Ph. D., of Felch
ville. Rev. fienrge.F. Fortler of St.1 Albans,
state superintendent, said after adjourn
ment that the vestibule of the original
L'niversalist church edifice in Barnard
had been identified and together with
the original doorstep would be moved
to the present church property and ineor
ported with the present edifice. He also
said that hereafter a state rally of the
denomination would be held annually at
liarnard, which was one of the earliest
Universalist parishes, Rev. Hosea Ballou"
a great man in the church, having been
its pastor several year. ,
Besides those mentioned, those who
participated in the meeting as speakers
were Revs. W. C. Harvey of Bethel, G-.C.
Boorn of Rutland, G. S. DeLano, D. D.,
of Chester, L. L. Lewis of Ludlow and
Hugo Ferdclwita. ;' '
WILSON WRITES
NEW PLATFORM
The President Has Virtually
Completed Draft for the
Democratic Convention
TO TELL OF KEEPING
NATION AT PEACE
Favorable Mention of Un
derwood Tariff and Fed
eral Reserve Act
PATIENT BROKE ANKLE.
Taking Her First Ride After Long Ill
ness, Mrs. Robert Fisher in Runaway.
Mrs. Robert Fisher of Burlington, who
has been recovering from an operation
at the home of Mrs, I J. MeAvoy of Elm
street, Montpelier, suffered a fractured
ankle yesterday, afternoon as the result
of a runaway. She was taken to Heaton
hospital and the fracture reduced. Her
husband arrived in the city last evening.
Mrs. fisher was preparing to go for a
ride with Mrs. MeAvoy, it being her first
venture out of doors for several weeks,
and while waiting for Mrs. MeAvoy she
limbed into the carnage in the yard.
The horse was hitched by a weight and
was feeding on the grass. The animal
stepped on the rope and was unable to
raise his head, which caused him to snap
mpatiently, resulting in the bridle break-
ng and falling to the ground. The horse.
startled, broke into a trot and .Mrs. Fish
er jumped. The horse ran a short dis
tance and was easily captured.
Washington, D. C, June 8. President
Wilson" to-day virtually had completed a
draft of the platform of the Democratic
ntaional convention. The principal plank
is expected to consist of a declaration ot
tho administration's success in guarding
the honor and interests of the Lmted
State and at the same time keeping
the nation at peace. Planks on domes
tic affairs refer particularly to the mer
it of the Underwood tariff, the federal
reserve act and the administration's pre
paredness plans.
BARRE MAN MODERATOR.
SPAULDING ALUMNI BALL.
SECOND RANK NAVY
AND ARMY OF 230,000
ARE DEMANDED
Progressive Platform Emphatic for Pre
paredness and for Americanism
Also Pledges Purpose to End
Trouble in Mexico.
Chicago, June 8. Ringing declarations
of Americanism and for preparedness
military, wpiritual, economic and nidus
trial, were the keynotes of the Progress
sive party platform completed to-day
It is expected to be presented to the eon
vention to-day or to-morrow.
The Americanism planks declared in
vigorous terms for upholding American
rights on land and sea, for the honor and
influence of the nation and for the main
tenance of the integrity of international
w. The platform also declared the su
preme duty -of civilization Is to make
peace permanent after the war. for which
this nation should be prepared in every
phere.
Regarding military preparedness the
platform pronounces for a navy restored
to at least second rank in battle erneien
cv and a etundinir armv of 'JSO.nou- men
nd a system of universal training con
trolled bv the national government. Re
garding Mexico the platform asserts that
very resource of the government shall be
forthwith used to end the present condi
tions.
Other declarations are for woman suf
frage, the regulation of industry and
just distribution of its returns, ronserva
tion, the re-etablihment of an Amer
ican merchant "marine, national highways
development, a permanent tariff commi
ion and a protective tariff.
TROUT CLUB ELECTION.
Five Directors Were Re-elected for the
Coming Year.
Stowe, June 8. The annual meeting
and trout dinner were held yesterday
by the Lake Mansfield Trout Huh. One
hundred and twentv-foiir at 5n and
125 round pf trout were .red. Ir.
If. C Rrigham. Dr. P. C. Hal-v of
Barlintfton, Dr. W. L. V.n of ater-
bury. Jimrf Matiar of Parre and M. If.
ri ie't of Biirt njton ere le-rle-tH j-
rectort i- ?-e ar.
Rush G. Estee, Who Mysteriously Disap
peared in Duluth.
James B. Estee returned to Montpelier
at 1:30 this morning from Chicago, where
he met his son, Rush G. Estee. who
strangely disappeared from a yacht in
Lake Superior and who made known his
presence in Minneapolis several days
later. The young man, who is a broker
in Xew York City, accompanied his fa
ther to 'Montpelier and will remain in
that city for a week and perhaps for a
month. He was in bed to-day and it
was stated that he probably would re
main in bed for a day or two.
The young man, in relating his expe
riences, says that he went ashore from
the yacht and was attacked by two
men in the railroad yards of Duluth,
losing consciousness and being, as he sup
posed, thrown into a freight tar which
took him to Minneapolis. He says that
he has been m a very shaky condition
ever since that time but he communi
cated with his father a soon as possible.
Was Held at School Assembly Hall with
Carroll'a Orchestra Playing.
The annual concert and ball of Spauld-
ing high school alumni, held in conjune-
iutt with commencement week exercisea.
as given at the new assembly hall of
the high school last evening, this being
the first time that the event has been
held on school property, , The dance waa
attended by twenty -five couples who first
enjoyed a" comjert by Carroll orchestra
and then danced a varied program of fig
ures. Dance orders were used. Refresh
ments of wafers. and punch were served
at one corner of the hall by three gins.
The commencement exercises continued
this afternoon with the class day exer
cises of the seniors in the opera house,
there being the usual large attendance.
The alumni will hold their 'banquet in
Hotel Barre this evening and the gradu
ating exercises of the 53 seniors will be
held at the opera house Friday evening.
KNOCKED OFF BARGE.
MONTPELIER MAN HURT.
A. C. Sterling Waa in Auto Which
Went Over Bank and Turned Over.
Bethel, June 8. A. C. Sterling of
imtpelier sustained a broken collar
bone and bruises on the head and other
parts of the body yesterday afternoon
when his automobile went down a bank
and turned completely over, after failing
to make a sharp curve where the road
to the Woodbury Granite company's
sheds leaves South Main street. He man
aged to avoid being crushed by the steer
ing wheel of his car, and to this is at
tributed his escape from worse injury.
W. R. Briggs, whom he was going to
call on at the granite, company oflice,
learning of his plight, carried him in
the Briggs automobile to Dr. Greene's
office, w here Dr, O. V. tireeno and Dr.
R. M. Cha cared for the injuries. Mrs.
Sterling was at the home of her sister,
Mrs. W, G. Shaw, when the accident oc
curred. The Sterling car waa driven un
der it own power to a local garage for
repa irs.
John Doyle of Burlington Drowned tit
New York.
Burlington, June 8. Xews has been
received here of the drowning in New
York last night of John Doyle of Bur
lington. He was knocked from a lumber
brge while going under a bridge.
Rev. B. J. Lehigh Heads Vermont Central
Baptist Association.
Rev. B. J. Lehigh, pastor of the First
Baptist church, who came to this city
from New York early in April, was
chosen moderator of the Vermont Cen
tral Baptist association at the close of
its 100th annual convention in Barre this
forenoon. Other officers were elected as
follows Vice-moderator, Rev. Joseph F.
Piani ofRarre; clerk and treasurer, H.
T. Morrison of Groton; committee on the
state of religion, Rev. D. D. Johnson of
East Randolph, Kev. Mr. Piani and Kev.
Dr. Gould; Baptist Young People's un
ion: President, Harry Kent of Barre;
vice-president, Claude Partridge; secand
vice-president, Miss Violet Scott; secre
tary and treasurer, Miss Grace Parry.
At each of the five sessions there waa
a large attendance and nearly 123 peo
ple from out of town w-ere present at one
time or another while the convention
was in progress. Thirteen clergyman
came from a distance and nine special
workers and eight visitors were present
in addition to many lay delegates. The
American Baptist Publication society had
an interesting exhibit of literature in the
parlors of the church, Frederick L. riuk
ham being in charge. Dinners were
served in the upper room at the First
Baptist church Wednesday and Ihurs
day by the women's society. It is ex
pected that the 110th convention, in
1017, will be held in the church at East
Randolph.
Rev. R. E. Swallow of South Strafford
lead the devotionals at the Wednesday
evening session. A brief business session
waa followed by a sermon on "Youth,1
the preacher being Rev. Mr. Gould. Rev
N. C. Edw all of Barre had charge of the
opening devotionals and m the absence
oj Kev. S. K. Meek of Topsham, Kev,
J. H. Thompson, the state colporteur
spoke for twenty minutes on "The Work
of the Bible School." Rev. Mr. Lehigh
spoke on the topic, "The Worker in the
Bible School,' anil he was followed at . 10
o'clock by Kev. Charles A. Bovd of Bur
lington, whose subject was "Training
Lea4ers, '
Then came the election of officers and
the completion of unfinished business.
Rev. J. Harry Thompson was designated
as the 1317 convention speaker, with Key,
Dr. Gould as his alternate. Rev. Mr,
Boyd had charge of the closing service.
L0UTHER YOUNG.
Barre Young Lady the Bride of Burling
ton Man.
An attractive wedding was solemnized
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Young
at 110 Merchant street last evening;
when their daughter, Clara Selina, be
came the bride of William H. Louther
son of Mr. and Mrs. John Louther of Bur
lington. Rev. Edgar Crossland of the
Presbyterian ehurch performed the cere
mony. The hmiHe was prettily decorated
with ferns and wild (lowers.
To the strains of the wedding march
from Wagner's opera, "Lohengrin,"
played by Airs. John Leith, cousin of the
bride, the bridal party entered the room
at 8 o'clock. The bride and groom were
attended by Miss Violet B. Grant of Al
bany, N. Y., a cousin of the bride, and
James loung, brother of the bride.
the bride was very beautiful in
gown of white silk crepe de chine, with
trimmings ot pearl and satin; She carried
a shower bouquet of white sweet peas
and lilies of the valley. The bridesmaid
wore pink taffeta and carried pink sweet
peas.
After the ceremony dainty refreshments
were aerved by Misses Annie Paul, Chris
tina Murray and Mae Ricketson. '
Mr. and Mrs. Louther left on the
midnight train for Boston and other
cities. They will be at home at 19 Vves
ton street, Burlington, after July I. They
were the recipients of many beautiful
and valuable presents.
The bride is a graduate of the Spauld-
ing high school, class of 1910, and also a
graduate of the Mary Hetcher hospital
raining school for nurses, class of 1U14.
The groom is one of Burlington's popular
young men.
BAIRD B0WEN.
PEOPLE OF BARRE WILL ALSO BENEFIT BY
THIS BIG SATURDAY TO SATURDAY SALE
VERMONT ECLECTICS MEET.
residents of Barre as to whether or not
the special bargains to be offered by the
merchants during the co-operative fare
refunding sale are to be exclusively for
out-of-town people. In order to prevent
a wrong impression regarding this fea
ture, The Times wishes to say that the
bargains offered by the Barre merchants
participating in this big trade event will
be for everybody, including Barre people,
as well as those residing in the rural dis
tricts and neighboring towns.
While the sale was inaugurated on the
theory of making attractive inducements
for out-of-town people to come here to
trade, by offering them special bargains
for a week and the payment of their
carfare, yet it is not the purpose to dis
criminate against the citizens of Barre.
So let us repeat, the bargains to be fe-ind
in the Barre stores which are participat
ing in the sale next week will be for
everybody. v
The news of this great-co-operative,
fare-refundina sale has been heralded far
and wide within the radius of which
Barre is a trade center. The Barre Times
on Thursday will carry large display ad
vertisements from live-wire merchants
who have entered heart and soul in tins
big trade week movement. ,
The seven davs of special trading, be
ginning ,vaturrtav ana continuing until i
Saturday, June 24, promise to be the
bigrest event of its kind in the history
of Harre.
There will be een davs of special
trading, and every day will see the pur
chasing value of a dollar stretched in
many instances almo-t double, but the
man or woman w no nss an eye tor rar
pains fchould be in Barre and participate
in the bargain gntns opportunities as
early during the sale a poilile.
Barre. itli an alrra fy rnagniftVenf rep
utation a a trading renter, bids fair to
r- 1 pe any previous attempt in this erv
en dars of t.prcil tradin?.
F.i-a..t.;-nry ara-.iorn for the
event I ve I"-n made by the Barre firms
joining ti tin movement, and the out -of-towii
. ip". in addition t- bavins
the r fa-- r fu-i i-d. ill find a wealth
r.i T. I T'trpl't- n of M .ntjl.r. of rarpMns nr before offered ia this
Merchants Participating in This Big Co-operative Fare Refunding Movement Will
Not Discriminate Against Barre Shoppers in Favor of Out-of-Town
Customers Bargains Will Be for Everybody. '
The question has been raised by a few
Annual Session Held at Senate Chamber
in Montpelier.
Members of the Vermont Eelertie Med
ical society met at 10 o'clock this fore
noon in the Senate chamber at the State
House lor their WUh annual meeting.
The officers of the society are: Presi-
ent. Amos E. Parlin. M. D., of I1and
Pond; vice-president, J. B. H. Cushman.
M. D., Eat Charleston; secretary and
treasurer. Percy L. Tempkton, M. P,
Montpelier.
President Tarhn gave an addre of
welcome and the follow ing program was
rarried out after the transaction of rou-
ine bueineea, including the election of
fncera: "Cyt't'-" J. B. H. Cuhman;
Third Stge of Lbor, F. 1 Templet on;
My Ohervation of Smallpox,- rpe
Washburn; "Intersf itl err;t;.
h. Godfrey. OieUea; "ESectriritv in
Chronic and Xervous Piase" H. y.
a ite.
The old board of officers, as named
h.e, were re e!erted-and the followicg
censor were e.Ve: V. F BaiJev of
Lap tVaft-Wr. F. If. CWfrer of . I-
city. It will not cost you anything to
come here, for your fare will be refunded
according to the co-operative fare-refund
ing schedule, which will be fully an
nounced in next Thursday's, issue of The
Times. If any further information ii
desired, call up The Times office or in
quire at any of the stores listed in this
great bargain event.
Where to Get Bargains.
Following are the merchants who have
already united with each other in an ef
fort to bring people to Barre to do their
shopping during I he j imes big co-opera
tive sale. Paste the list in your hat for
future reference, so that you may know
where to find genuine bargains:
A. P. Abbott Co., Dept. Store.
The Homer Fitts Co., Dept. Store.
Union Dry Goods Co.
Union Clothing Co.
F. H. Rogers & Co, Clothing.
Rogers' Walk-Over Boot Shop.
Moore & Owens, Clothing and Shoes.
Shea'a Shoe Store.
A. W. Badger & Co., Furniture.
People's Shoe Store.
Lamorey Clothing Co.
The N. D. Phelps Co Hardware.
Mrs. W. F. Shepatd, Millinery.
Mrs. Flora Foster, Millinery.
The Vaughan Store, Dry Goods.
B. W. Hooker & Co, Furniture,
Tilden Shoe Co.
Frank McWhorter Co., Clothing.
C. W. Averill & Co., Hardware.
Barre Creamery Co.
Rockwood Studio, Photographs.
Marrion's Cigar Store.
Nourse & Wilson, Millinery.
Ben ha A. Beattie. Art Goods.
H. A. Gould, Pianos.
Barre Savings Back.
The above list is in no wise complete.
as a great number of the merchants have
not yet been seen. However. renreaen.
tatue of The Times will call on at! the
merchants of Barre and give them an op
portunity to unite with thoe who l.svr
alradv jrn'Sod their intention of rr-
the sale. me
Wedding at Home of Bride's Parents in
Waitsfield.
Waitsficld, June 8. A quiet home
wedding occurred yesterday at 2 p. m. at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Albert H.
Bowen, when their youngest daughter,
Etta E. Bowen, was united in marriage
to Earl W. Baird, son of John L. Baird,
only the immediate relatives of the con
tracting parties being present. Tho ofli-
latmg clergyman was Rev. llliam A.
Remele, t pastor of the Congregational
hurch, using the single ring service.
The parlor, in which the ceremony was
performed, was beautifully trimmed with
ferns and white lilacs. Mrs. Carl Per
kins of Windsor played the wedding
march, which consisted of selections from
Lohengrin. The bride was clad in white
crepe de chine and carried a bouquet of
lute carnations and lilies of the vat-
ley. She was attended by her sister,
Miss Florence A. Bowen, who was also
gowned in white crepe de chine and car
ried white carnations and lilies ot the.
alley. The groom's attendant was his
youngest brother, Mark Baird. Follow
ing the ceremony, the brides brother,
Orville H. Bowen, sang "O Promise Me."
In the dining room, were displayed beau
tiful presents of china, linen, cut glass
and silver. Refreshments of ice cream
and cake were served.
After a few weeks' wedding trip spent
in Waterville and Portland, Me., and
Boston, Mr. and Mrs. Baird will make
their home with John L. Baird. The
young people are among the town's fa
vorites and the best wishes of the com
munity are extended to them.
Those attending from out of town
were Mrs. Carl Perkins and son, Law
rence. of Windsor: Mr. and Mrs. E. E,
Cushman and Mrs. J. E. Regan and son
Edmond, of Bethel; Miss Doris Moriarty
of Waterbury and Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Livingston of Fayston.
23 CERTIFICATES ISSUED
ROAD BONDING
PLAN FAILED
Citizens Turned Down South'
Main Street Project V the
Close Vote of 12? !l8
GRADE CRC .G
A Br EJECTION
$48,000 Co'st of the Project
j Was Also a Stumbling-Block
. ;
To Grammar School Boys and Girls in
Barre Town.
Exercises marking the close of the
schools in Barre Town to-morrow were
held last evening at the South Barre
grange hall when certificates were grant
ed to 23 grammar school boys and girls
who are now eligible to enter high school.
There are II schools m the town which
have grammar grades, and this year's
graduates have a high rating in scholar
ship. The exercises were attended by
the pupils, their parents and their friends.
The principal speaker was State Superin
tendent of Education Mason S. Stone.
The following program was carried
out: Violin solo, Clarence Gedde: vocal
solo, Mildred Covey of Trow hill school;
vocal solo, Douglas Inglis; piano solo,
Sylvia Beaulieu of the South Barre
school; song by the STnth Barre girls
oral solo, John Hyllie; address by Ma
son S. Stone; presentation of certificates
and announcement of prizes by District
Superintendent G. J. iSeager; singing of
America."
In his address Superintendent Stone
urged the bovs and girls to have air ear
nest purpose in doing well what each one
was fitted to do and he called them to
the hich citizenship of unselfishness and
work for others.
Those who received certificates were
as follows: Eva Beach.' Ray Bellville. Al
fred Bishop, Otalie Blanehard, Mildred
Covey, Russell Oitlar, James (tilden,
Marguerite Howe, Walter Johnson. Eliz
abeth Macaulav, Elizabeth Mcleod, Er
nest Mayo, Rowe McAllister. Angus Mc
Kenzie, Doris Morrison. Rov Pelkev. Har
old Reynolds, tJeorge Roark, Archie Sa
poriti, illoughby St-ott. Carroll Tucker,
Frances Ward and Herbert Watson.
The prizes awarded were beautiful wa
ter color pictures imported from Knglsnd,
and they were given by Superintendent
Scager. Two pictures were awarded to
the pupil getting the higiiet general
average in the t-tate examination, and
they went to Alfred 15ihop, who had the
cenersl average of cM 3 7. One picture
was given to the pupil having the highet
mark in Fnjrlish in t!ie Mate examina
tion, and Kay Pellviile was the winner,
with PI percent. A pirture for the hijh-
et mark in mathematics in the Hate ex
amination was won bv Harold RevnoM.
whoe mark wa PC er rent.
Thee high mark refeeied the pener.l
By a final vote of 12.3 to 118 the legal
voters of Barre, assembled in a special
city meeting ' at the opera house -.last
sight, voted against the proposal to is
sue bonds in the sum of $48,000 and ex
tending over a period of eight years, for
a pa ving extension on South Main street
and the erection of a cement concrete
bridge over Jail branch. Earlier in the
evening nearly 300 voters were in the.
house when a motion, made by ex-Mayor
Harvey E. Hersey, to table the article re
lating to 'bonding, was voted down, but
the number had shrunk materially when
the voters came to deal with finalities.
Much that was germane to the issuo
nd a good deal that was w'.iolly irrele
vant was discussed while the subject waa
under debate. Motions and counter mo-
ions were entertained by the chair be
fore the issue was sharply drawn and
when action -on the bonding proposition
was finally taken, a question which had
its genesis in the city council and sur
vived the birth pains that any question
must bear in the moil of that well known
body, was submerged for a season, at
least, and perhaps for several years.
A big element in the defeat of the
bonding plan was the apparent failure of
the council, in submitting the bridge and
paving program to the electorate for ap
proval or rejection, to provide for a sat
isfactory disposal of the grade crossing
nuisance near the Trow & Holden plant.
That the scrutiny of the inquiry oflice
should be 'turned on the failure of the
old town fathers to inhibit the railroad
from, crossing the main public thorough
fare at any cost must afford a fine figure
of the imperishability of men's acts. Op
ponents of the project; in all sincerity,
no doubt, argued their objection on the
grounds of economy and their arguments
carried measureable conviction, but the
grade crossing issue, nevertheless, was
the heaviest factor in bringing about the
defeat of the resolution to bond.
City Clerk James Mackay palled the
meeting to order at 8 o'clock and Frank
G. Howland was elected moderator after
the reading of the warning. Interrogated
by R, S. Currier. City Engineer F. O. Lee
gave a brief survey of what the council
proposed to do in the way of draining.,
grading, curbing and paving from the
present stone-road terminus to the bridge,
of building a cement bridge and laving
sidewalks. His estimate fixed the cost of
the paving, etc., at $.13,333 and the bridg
construction ut $14,000. Only once did
the reported refusal of the traction com
pany to bear its share of the assessment
come to the surface, and then it was dis
missed briefly when Chairman (ilysson of
the aldermanic street department said
the council had done its best to bring
Pthe company to book.
It was S. Hollister Jackson, a former
member of Vermont's public service com
mission, who broached the question of
grade crossing elimination. He spoke at
length on tentative plans for the elim
ination and thought that the paving pro
ject should not be carried through with
out consideration of the crossing. His
words were echoed in part bv Mr. Currier
and V. E. Avers, who was for eliminating
rossings on South Main, Hill and Avers
treets. Mr. Jackson quoted a former
commission as favoring a plan to leseen
he liability bv crossing elimination. J.
T. Tiernev, who said he had been prettr
close to the situation for 14 years, gave
testimony to support the argument for
crossing elimination. Mr. Tierney was
also apprehensive of additional expense
to the vity by reason of increased ex
penditures in the water and fire depart
ments. J. T. Gillaghan, who was on his
feet several times before the hall was
vacated, cautioned the city to go slow in
spending its money. Mr. Callaghan stole
some1 of Mr. Hersey 's thunder by men
tioning something about a half-million
dollar debt.
The fiit clah came when ex-Mayor
Hersey, sinking his plummet into ante
liellum history, lieatly turned an anec
dote tlr.it "wa to have an important
bearing on his opposition to the bonding
pl;in. Mr. Hersey spoke with character
istic verve, interlarded his remark with
fimres bearing on the city's indebtedness,
and choked off further discussion of the
ue, for the time being, bv moving that
article 1. "to free if the city will bond or
isue notes. etc., be tabled. The mo
tion was variously discussed and after a
brief conference, it was decided to sub
mit tne question to oauot.
The chair appointed Judge H. W. Scott.
Alex Ironside. R. S. Currier and Athol
Rell teller and balloting proceeded.
WTien the votes were counted, the chair
announced that the motion to table had
been lost bv a vote of Hi to 13S. a total
of 20 having been polled.
Then the ilehate was resumed. K. S.
Currier would btive the chair entertain
motion to pave South Main street when
ever the citv council, after petitioning
iroon Manning c ,r i .-.o a-iaics 1 1! ruHli,-servi,-e commission for a grade)
ine rsrrc iuwn piantm, m in,...!.. ! crossing rli
8,008 MEMBERS.
t irat inc in ttie eie. i ne more rner
hant who unite in the tnoenv rt. t':e ! eit" re 1 41.
b frcer the siKf-e of all. and the prrat.-r ' re.-, j t.n b-'l Ut et
th ofportanity of the buying puVtn-, 'Isi at'en led by 2" jple.
C elimination, shoinj report a sat
isfactory adjustment in the matter. Mr.
Taikson irn'f to sav t!it t'le publit
. ....... . , . i i fin r r' ...I , 1 . V.,i'V
Vermont Chapter. Eastern Star, Hears ,r ,fr, ,...,.;, or of th. wnr4
5,Ivert- ;in the s'ste. Alex Ironside mnvH that
Burlington. .ti;?c Tie 41th annual 'f,r eoimcil rrex-eed with the fcridze work
session of the Verirort c.; ter. "r-r of , ),oU tW ruin; proieit in aherm-e
Ijislera Star. i hl i here tojv with xie motion w - lost after Mr. rr
Uts attendance. The or l.t hs TS an. oh-r had pi t'tej- respect.; to t!.
eatter tasta a mrm.Vrsf.'p of .' H-oete sfr.-ttire that spvna the .fail at
'There were P" death duniu the year ' tie presen' time.
Jan.! wt r'fi f 2"l. T'-e in..t-d j her Vr. f ai'ei'-.aii' rnofiow ti
adiotirf f thundorH d n. r.cpfyit
ConVfi-ii cn f-urti rare.)
