REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
66th YEAR
VOM'.MK (IIS
M Mill: II 57
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See limes-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
XXX i?:K ?u NSETTLE D
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
FATE OF VERDUN IS TREMBLING IN BALANCE
AS GERMAN FORCES BATTER FRENCH LINES
SENATE PASSES 1
MAPP OUSTER BILL,
"Right Arm of Prohibition"
Gives Right to Remove
Recalcitrant Officials.
LOCAL OPTION ACT PASSED
Delegate Hobson Proposes to Al
low Bonded Dealers to Handle
Original Packages.
tt> a vote of 23 to the P'-natc yes
ten lay passed the "riiisler" 1> 111. denom
inated by Senator Mapp as "the ripht
arm of prohibition." whl?"h provides for
the removal from o!!ice of those of
ficials who fail or net;lect to enforce
the laws of the Conitnonwealth. Sena
tors rnnnon and Wendenburg, of Rich
mond. tin'! Senator Dowuinfr, of War
ren, voted In the, neqat ive.
Actlrjr upon the suuirc.st Ion of Sena
tor Cannon. the measure was made
ireneral In its application, Under the
orlj;I na 1 <lraft, it sipplied only to those
ofli? ? i.? who may l.<- n>'trll*?**nt in the
enforcement of the prohibition, antl
p::mbllnK and antivice laws.
*' T1 would make lis the lattirlilni;
stock of t! ? Slate," said Senator < '.in -
lion, "to soletnnlv sit here and. by im
plication, I ii' the stamp of our approval
tiT,r**i the nonenforcfiiient of othet liw:<,
provided officers ?Ji'l their duty i:i tfi??
enforcement of these . spc.statutes.
If W ;<re i'i f:iv< - I' ll ;t 'aw . I y all
itipiirv made It ners?l In application."
r mm ai. on ion
(I.MMU VHT I.AW
.Jii'.t prior r?i it. ? passui:': of the
"ouster" I' ll. tli?? Senat'-. bv a tirtan:
Tnoijf- vole, the local option
lii^s lire, tie:<i|;u?'l to :ri\ e citb:; and
eonptle?i an opportunity. ?o test the
Miitimi ii' of tl;v c? ?mnitsr.it y with r? ?
Kurd to ultsol'it" prohibitum ' ?n peti
tion of i t i -fourth of the electorate
qualified s r. participate m the next pr?
ccfiim? b??11.? ta 1 i lection, the court Is
required to ord< r ;i ??oeciai election to
de ide th> matter of Interstate .ship
ment.
fnrli r the Mapp l<ill. provision is
tnadi for the i-hlpimtn* and delivery of
t>ne quart of whisky within a pc-.iod
of tiirty da;.! The local option 1 ill
makes this monthly allowance d!s
< ii tionarv with tl.?- voters of each co:i -
inunity.
Tiic "oust.-t" l.iJl provbb-s that the
comtni.'-s'loiser of prohli'ition shall ;is
t-ociate himself with the attorney for
the p: ohiblti'>n liiw.'f. Ti. the prosecution
? if ?.>.:!? ?? i ? 11' i ??? 5 for failure to enforce
the prohibition laws. ?. the prosecution
of ruber cases, attorneys for the ?on -
rnonwealtli and sis'h ? ? t;.? i cou.1 :? >
may I??* ne e var; will ;a ? ch.'i"Kv of
procc 'iiriKa
t.'oinplalnt n..r. '.>? ;"!'d with tl <?
court by any person, corporation or
'Tg-aiiization. Trial \v 11 b? o:d.,red
forthwith, art'l the prof ? edinv ? not
be dismissed without :!??? uriauimou.s
consent of f. ?? pro.-c<-iitors ??tft? <? rw.
the remov.il of u ? '.i i orh? iui::c pro
video for '!i? ? ? r ? i ?' institution, do
not come w.tlii.. the purview of tin- act
>\oi l.i) Ai.i.i*w to
iiamh.i: (iHn.iNAi. i?.\? i\ \t;i:s
Whpn the House ? Committee oti Mor.tl
and Social Wel faro takes 115) the con
sideration of th-> prohibitiuii hill to
morrow afternoon, (iraham H.
llobsoti, of Itichrnond, w 511 off or by re
4)u< st an amendment designed to allow
Virginia menhants and dealers to sup
Ij 1 y in original packugv.i the limited
quantity of whisky, wine and beer
that the Mapi' bill allows individuals
to have shipped to them by dealers out
of the .State.
The amendment ha < already been
drawn. Healers privileged to conduct
this business, it is provided, shall pay
to the State, iri advance, an annual
license tax, iti no ease ti> be less than
S5.000 a year, based 0:1 purchases, and
a salary of J5 a day to an officer of
the State, approved by tlie prohibition
commissioner, whose duty it shall be to
have constant supervision over the
business of such dealer ami see' that it
is conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the law.
Having complied with all the strip
getit provisions laid down in the
amendment, merchants and dealers thus
licensed ate to have the right to pur
chase ardent spirits in such quantities
as are necessary for the conduct of
their business, and common carriers
are given the riHht to make deliveries
to such <oncerns, keeping proper rec
ords of lite goods so delivered.
ft TS Vlltt.IMA MKItf'liA NTS ON
|\V It WITH TIIONl'. OIT OK STATIC
"All sales of ardent spirits." the
amendment continues, "by such mer
chant or dealer shall be made in sealed
packages, and shall be made only to
such persons and in such quantities as
are permitted to be delivered to per
sons under the provisions of this act;
the intent and purpose of this provision
being that touch ardent spirits as are
permitted to be used in this State un
der the provisions of this bill may
bo purchased front duly licensed mer
chants or dealers within this State, as
well as from dealers without the State."
No license of this character, the
amendment provides, shall be granted
to any merchant or dealer except in
cities of 30,000 inhabitants or more,
and In larger cities there shall bo only
one license for eaoh St,000 inhabitants.
The granting of theso licenses, more
1 over, Is made subject vto the will of
the majority in an election to be ljeld
on this question In each city under the
(Continued on Fourth Pace.)
Aeroplane Movers
OverDu Pont Plants
Stories of Mysterious Visior to
Munition Centers to Be
Investigated.
I Special to The Tlmos-Dispatch.l
bl'LL'TJI, MINX.. February ?
Stories of a mysterious aeroplane
hovering over munition factories of
Northern Wisconsin are to be made the
i subject of iin investigation.
I'or weeks residents of several cities
; have reported seeing the machine at
various points, always going toward
or coming from plants where shrapnel
is being inaile or munitions stored.
| Threatening letters have been received
I by th? Du I'ont Powder Company.
F.mployees of the Great Northern
Hallway Company Just before dawn to
| day saw an aeroplane soar above the
lore do'-ks at Allouez. for nearly an
i hour and a half.
As it became light It was plainly
' distinguishable, circling about 3,000
fe<t In the air. About r, ,\. M. It pro
! reeded in a westerly direction toward
I the new plant of the Minnesota Steel
Company, on th?- St. I^ouls River.
An aeroplane also was sighted near
j .Superior by a South Shore Railway
train crew. 1 >u I'ont ofUcials at Wash
burn, Wis. admit having seen aero
planes above their works.
ROSSI GETS EIGHT YEARS
of Murderoil* AhmiiiII Against
>1r*. l'lmrllp, of < lilengo, In Itnllnu
ltaltron<l Irnln on .May 21. 1014.
ROM!'. February 2f. (via Paris, Feb
rimry 26).- 1'ietro Rossi was found
puilty to-dav tit Are7.ro on the charge
? <>* murderous :?^H:iult against Mrs. Mary
; Plav He. <>f Chicago, In a railroad train
between Florence and A re?7.0 on May
1*1 t*'l 4. for the purpose of robbery.
!!o was sprite!, ? rj :o eight years and
fi- ir ninths' iniprisonment and to two
yr-.irs" special ?urv< ilTancc by the po
ller :.|-.d to perpe'tml interdiction from
public S'-rvl -r.
The Jury ' urnl t >1 r Rossi's act was
ur.pr'Tri^dltated, a; t that he was only
r> fp-'t .sibW for ins actions, being not
i wholly sound of mind.
M'?. FlaveJIe returned to tin" I'niterl
State* after the attack and died In
I Chicago on December 11, If'M,
D'ANNUNZIO INJURED
Italian IWl, Hurl In I",)?? In Aeroplane
\erlO(*lif, Tnkm to Vrnlc*
IIOMpll ill.
PAH IS. February 20?flabriele d'An
nunzio has been injured In the right
eye Sri an aeroplane accident and taken
to hospital In Venico, says the Rome,
?i r> spomlent of the Petit I'arisien.
*1 ?>??!?> i~ a possibility that the sight of
the injured i \ >? may he preserved.
The Italian poet iSuLriele d'Annunzio j
took a prominent part in the popular,
agitation which pi deu tli?? declara-I
lion of war hy Italy on Austria in May,;
1:<1*. He volunteered for service, and'
was appointed lieutenant in the army,
and has taken part in a number of
aeroplane (lights over the cities of
Trieste and Trent, during1 which ho
dropped leaflets Into the cities with
messaire.s of encouragement to tin re si- j
dents of Italian origin.
SCHOOL TEACHERS IN UNION i
ArnmnfiiH'iil for l-'oniint Ion Muilp by
Smmiel ??omiMTN. l'reslilent of
Federation of l.nlior.
[ Special to The Times-Dispatch. J
Ni:w VOliK, 'February 2t;.?Samuel
Ootnpers, of Hie American Federation
of Labor, made arrangements to-day
to fori): a union of public-school
teachers in New York. The union will
I be affiliated with the American Federa
. tion. it is s.tld.
A meeting of teachers and principals
has been arranged, at which Mr.
Ootnpers will make an address. T??
'organization then will be formed.
The Central Federation Union i* as
sisting in the organization plan*.
NUNS LEAVING MEXICO
More Than Tlilrly Sitter* of I liarlty
Siill for \ew % ork From
Vern Cruz.
VKItA riilZ. February 26.?The
Spanish steamer Antonio I.ope/. sailed
to-day for Xew York by way of
Havana, carrying more than thirty
Sisteis of Charity, mostly Spanish
women, who are leaving the country
/ Oaxaca Indians, who are being hard
i pushed in their native state, are enter
i ing the State of Vera Cruz in largo
] numbers. i.icneral .Tara, Governor of
. Vera Ci'irt, has sent numerous troops
I to combat them.
CHICAGO MAYOR ASKS GUARD
Tell* Chief of Pol lee Tlinl Tlirentw
lime lleen Jliulr Against
IIIm 1,1 fe.
CHICAGO, February 20.?As the re
sult of threats that ho says havo been
j made against his life. Mayor William
, Ilalo Thompson has asked Chief of J*o
Hce Henley for a bodyguard, it be
came known to-day. The Mayor says
the threats havo been made "presuma
bly because of his activities in the
campaign for th? coming aldermanitl
primaries."
TIIKOUOll 81.EBPKU .TO NKW Oltl.KANS
nccount Marril Orajt, leavlnu Richmond 11:15
P. M.. February 2?, vln SOUTHERN RAIL
WAY, $26.75 round trip. Phono Mad. 271
President's Friends Serve Notice
They Are Ready to Meet
Any Issue.
VIRGINIAN TO LEAD FIGHT
Arraigns Rebellious Democrats
Who Seek to Discredit
Administration.
I Special to The Times-'Dlspat. |> )
V. ASIn.NYJTO.V, February 20?I'resl
'''nt Wilson's friends In the House to
day issued a challenge to the rebellious
Democrats. who may try to force
through Congress a resolution warning
Americans to remain off armed mer
chantmen. Notice was served on the
insurgents that the administration fol
lowers are prepared to meet any issue
that might he raised to embarrass the
I resident in handling the German sit
uation.
J{<'prcsf?,atlVe Carter Class. noting
for u,c ?d?ninistn.tion.
will tak- the lead in the fight to up.
1*1 the adniinlstration.
A I> >11.MS l It ATIO VS SI III:
op this <*?vri<o\i:usy
I o-night .Mr. Glass gave out the fol
lowing statement, which is r-garded as
? He administration's side of the present
controversy in the House;
or .V't? "'a',e n? "Wmatlc c?"vnss
the House, nor am I willing to as
sume to speak for the House; hut I
have a very distinct impression, based
on expressions made to mo by scores of
members, that no resolution seeking
to discredit the President's manage
ment of the foreign relations of this
government. and to substitute action
of Congress for that of the executive.
"Ill got a majority of the votes in the
or anythlns? like a majorltv. I
am perfectly confident that no such
ie.-" ution would receive a majorltv of
democratic vues. and I a!n not "dis
posed to believe that the Itopublioan
members are one whit le.H.s disposed to
l??ave this grave problem of inter
national adjustment to the orderly pro
cesses of diplomacy. If the.v are so
much the worse for them and so much
more the frightful responsibility.
At ail events, not an inconsiderable
number of Democratic members who
ve not found themselves in constant,
antagonism to the President of the
; r.ited .States have expressed a cheerful
willingness to meet the issue squarely,
win ne\ or it Is presented. .Some of them
liave no relish fur side-stepping; on
the contrary, they have a decided dis
taste for an avowed policy of benevo
lent condescension toward the admin
istration a sort of momentary tolera
tion. with a 'time limit' for the patient
and courageous efforts of the Presi
dent to keep this nation out of war
without compromising its honor by
yielding the recognized rights of neu
trals to immunity front the barbarous
practices of bolligercms.
I-N VOL VKS lilt I'TAIj
ItKIMtOACII OP I'IU;SIDi:.\T
"For my part. I would hate to believe
that Congress Is in favor of any such
detestable capitulation as that which
lias been suggested. Involving In
separably an abject relinquishment of
cherished national rights and a brutal
reproach of the President for trying
to preserve the dignity and prestige of
the 1 nited States among the great
powers of the earth.
it that is really the termer of Con
gress. the issue should not be post
poned a day. We should have the test
promptly, in order that we may deter
mine whether the honor of this Ameri
can nation, as it\ would he reflected by
such a desperate legislative usurpation,
is worth the ceaseless vigil and the
>>rave fight which have characterized
the efforts of President Wilson to pre
serve it.
i' or my part. I do not believe that
Congress is in anything like such a
mood, or that it can he precipitated
into any such action. Put there should
be no doubt about it. either in this
country or abroad. Infinite harm is
said to have ensued from the Teutonic
misconception ,,f this nation's attitude
in the initial stage of the l.usitanhi
negotiations, and it is not difficult to
per.-oive that even graver consequences
might result from the supposition that
Congress has a gripping anxiety to
reptidi ?e Wood row Wilson and em
brace Von Tlrpitz.
"This is no party question. It is an
American question. ?tut if there is real
foundation for the well-nigl, incredible
assertion that the Democratic side of
the House of Keproscntatives is im
patient to antagonize the President in
his firm stand for American rights as
against threatened maritime murder
then there are many of us who want
to go on record to the contrary?who
will covet the distinction of refusing
to follow any such leadership.
\\ 11,1. MIT IHO ASH AM KD
OF < ?>>Ir.-\\V II15 KKKJ'.H
? I don't believe the Democratic side
of tlx- House is headed in any such
direction. If It is, I'm going the other
way as fast and as far as I can; nor
do I apprehend that I will he In any
wise ashamed of my company.
"What substance is there, anyhow,
to the pretense that citizens of the
United States require to he warned
by theSr Kovernment against travel
ing on the merchant ships of nations
at war? Haven't they already been
terribly warned by the central powers,
if only a warning Is the thing needed?
Hut that Is not the only thing nor, in
deed, iho chief thing, that certain gen
(Contlnuod on Second Page.)
General Humbert, Commanding at Verdun, and General Joffre
(?cneral Humhert, in the left, is one of the eoinmnmliuK generals directing the* defense of Verdun <Jeiierul
Joffre, the figure standing in the middle in tlie dark uniTm-m, is now engaged in working out plans for the further
defense of Verdun, now besieged by the (jernians. The struggle >? 'he Meuse woods marks tlie beginning of tlio
(?ermaus greatest offensive since the drive on I'arls. It is rej>orte?l that the whole German force numbers three
quarters of a million men.
com m plun
A3 BASIS FOB RESERVE
Committee Members Favor Practical
Test of Possibility nf Form
ing Volunteer Army.
ADDITION' TO OTHKIl PKOJKCTS
General Terms of Measure to lie
Before House Within Ten Days
Agreed On, Providing for Keuular
Standing Army of (-!;>,UOO Men.
\V AS11J N'"! TON. P. C.. February 2fi.?
A growing tendency to provide f<?r a
Federal army reserve, in addition to
the regular army and federalized Na
tional Guard, was manifest to-day in
botli the House and Senate Military
Committees. Mctnners of both commit
tees said they favored a practical test
of the possibility of forming: a Federal
volunteer army in peace times on lines
somewhat similar to the continental
army plan. The apparent intention to
abandon tin- ? <?nt mental project wholly
was one of the causes leading up to
[the rt siciiii' ii>n of Secretary (iarrison.
The House committee agreed to-day
upon the general terms of a bill ii ex
pects to get before the House in ten
j days, providing: for a regular army with
iaii authorized peace strength of 1-13,000
mi>n; a federalized National ?iuard,
? which woiibl reach a fixed minimum
: strength of I'-M.OOO in five years: ade
quate reserve systems for both of these
forces, and organization of civilian
trail.itiu .amps, with wide discreiion
j reposed iti the War Department as to
the terms of enlistment, training and
, government.
The Senate committee has agreed
(tentatively t?? a plan under w liich t ra in
ir.g cami'S would be authorized in every
| congressional district where sutlicieut
; men volunteered for training under
an obligation for war service. The
maximum force to bo thus raised in
! any district would be a battalion, or
I substant ially the same number as pro
j posed for the lirst year of the (iarri
| son continental army plan. The camps
I would be under command of full com
plements of regular army olMeers.
not it r winrniNit iti ism-:
??'tutor; roci.n m>: k\i.isti-:i>
Members of both committees, while
i saying tliey would support any good
j plan for federalizing the National
(Sua.rd as a tirst-line force, frankly ad -
mitted to-dav that they had doubts
i whether a requisite force could he en
listed In the National Cuard, even un
der the proposed Federal pay and regu
lation provisions. Representative Kuhn,
who has advocated an extension of the
business men's camp idea to all classes
of citizens who would not enlist in
| the regulars or the National Guard, said
I to-day that with .10,000 tpen already en
j rolled for Intensive military training
j this summer, without government aid,
! he had received assurances that fully
j 100,000 would be available next year
j under his plan. Members ??f the Senate
(Continued on Tenth"Pngoji
!0.S. MAY DISCUSS SIZE
OF DEFENSIVE ARMAMENT i
Hut Will Require Assurances of
Safety for Americans Dm
inji Negotiations.
I..\NSI\<; MAKKS STATK.MKNT
No Indication That Teuton Armed-i
Ship Order Has Been Postponed.;
Ccmgre^s Leaders \r<? Certain No
Warninir .Measure Can Win.
V. ASIII.W.TII.V, !?'< In iiu ry *J?. .-.?ere
tary Lansing ii;<1 i? -:tt? t to-ilav t!>:it the;
't'nitod Slates w as prepared, under cor
tain circumstances, lu discuss with '.lift
i German government what may properly
! regarded as defensive armament for
' merchant ships. In no event, however,
according ti> authoritative informa! i"ii
to-night, will the I'nited Statt s a
party i?? mi h negotin!ions unhss ii is
iassured thai the lives <>t" American
citizens nlmui'd ships armed for defen
sive purposes will i: < > t !>?? endangered
; Uuriii-; tin* ruiirce of the <li.-iMs.~it.il.
? 'ontidontia 1 advut'S from Iterlin have
forecast ;i proposal for mi. Ii a discus
sion h\ (icriininy, which contends that
; armament permitted under intcrna
? t ioi.Ml l,i w as defensive had l>ecome of
ftn.-ivf with the advent ol' tin- suh
m:i i inc.
I'ntil the question i.-> raised. Mr.
Lansiim rcKiin's il as premature to
n1.1!otiie-e the position of the State Jjo
pa rt lie-lit
Seeivtarv I.ans'ng considers that, had
tin- ???riiKin and Austrian %nv.-mnients
hern of Hie opinion lha* their action
was not a departure from international
law. they would have issued no memo
i.aiidiii'i. hnl would have proceeded to
carry out Their intention-: and attempt
to just ify th- in later.
Ml l.\ llll'ATKIV <?!?? cii\\t;i:
in a it m\'i' oitnicits
There was no Indication to-day that
orders lo German and An Irian suh
i marine commanders lo trout armed
merchant ships :ts war vessels, an
nounced in formal notifications from
the central powers for February 20.
I would l?e postponed, although it was
I admitted ihat postponement would not
i come as a surprise.
<'hairma ii l-'lund, of the 1 louse For
eign Affairs Committee, exchanged
i views with Secretary Lansing at the
'State department. Mr. Flood outlined
! t c? i hi- secretary the situation at I ho
i Capitol, and Mr. Lansing told Mr. Flood
of the status al the State Department.
One of the entente allies, to which
Secretary Lansing suggested disarma
ment of merchant ships, replied to-day.
Although Secretary Lansing declined
to tell the name of the replying power.
It was learned that It was Italy, and
that the reply was argumentative
rather than conclusive. It was pointed
out that Italian liners give pledges not
to use their armament, except for de
fence. when clearing from American
I ports.
1 Willi the apparent quieting down of
(Continued on Tenth i'ago.)
RUSSIANS TAKE NEARLY
13100 MAI EMM
Pursuit of Turkish Army Continues,
jiml Village of Aschkala
Is Occupied.
Tin: ik m:sisTA\cK hiiokkn
I'naltle to Defend Points of Xatu
1*111 Advantage, Defeated Ottoman
Troops Continue Flight in Fast
nesses of Asia Minor.
I'KTUOGUAK, February (via l.oti
dou).?Tlio capture of otllcers,
rj.T.*.:; men and ;'2:s guns in the opera
tions about Krzerum was announced
in ih<* oUiciul statement from the Rus
sian War Olllce to-day. Tlie pursuit
of the Turkish army continues, ami
the Russians have occupied the village
of Aschkala, fifty miles west of Kr
zerum, on the road to Trebizoud. Tlio
statement follows:
"Western Russian front: In the
Mikhaltche region. on the 1 >niester. in
(ialicla. thi* enemy, after prolonged
bomb throwing, succeeded in occupying
a crater, but our troops by an im
petuous counterattack drove him out.
"Caucasus front: The result of the
Krzerum operations was attained with
relatively insignificant losses, consider
ing the ureal success we achieved.
"We took prisoner 1?a-I Turkish of
t'c.nrs atul 1..753 men and captured nine
llags and guns, besides taking in
I Krzerum, a Turkish fortress of the
tirst class, with large depots of arms,
munitions, supplies and signaling and
jtelegraph and telephone apparatus.
"We continue the pursuit of the re
! mninder of the defeated and de
moralized Turkish army without re
spite. Fift> miles west of Krzerum. <>n
the road t<> Trebizoud. we I lirew buck
the enemy re-ir guards and occupied
the village of Aschkala."
It KSI ST A M n Al'l* \HI'\ Tl.l
has ritrriKUKii oit
The r< sistance oiTered by the Turkish
forces, letreatlng from Krzerum. to
| the advancing Russians a pp:i i<-ii 11 v has
| frittered out, on account of the general
lack of ammunition and supplies. 1'a
1 able to defend points of natural ad
vantage, the Turks tire conlinning their
I precipitate tlight in the fastnesses of
' Asia. Minor.
The loss of Ishpir. which was an Irn
1 portant ammunition and food depot
| serving the tight wing, the Turkish
coast troops and the lefL witm, the
Krzerum forces, further crippled the
power of Turkish resistance. It also
cut off tnnin roitd communication bo
i ween Krzerum and Troblzond. This
means that, the Turkish troops which
are retreating from Krzerum upon
Trnbl/.ond can now only reach the coast
through a dilllcult mountain district,
where they will be within striking dis
tance of the Itussian Ulack Sea fleet,
whose bombardment of the Armenia
littoral continues.
The coast army, likewise cut off, is
now in a precarious position, with the
possibility of a Itussian attack on Us
roar.
I
ALREADY TAKEN.
Under Eyes of Emperor,
Teutons Storm and Cap
ture Douaumont.
DEFENDERS DRIVEN BACK
UPON THEIR INNER LINE3
Crown Prince's Armies Have
Way Blasted Out for Them by
Terrific Artillery Fire.
A I .SO GAIN' OX PLAIN OF WOEVItK
Purls Does Not Conredo Reported
Fall, but Admits Fighting
Is Sanguinary.
Paris Does Not Admit
Capture of Douaumont
Till', French War Odli-f, In lt?
latCNt olllclal Ntnlrmcnt, de
wrrllirx llie linttle around Port
Doiiiiuniiint, one of the nuUylnit
fortN of Verdun, no dei?pcrnte, hut
innkt'N no actual adniinntonn of the
capture of tin* fort by the tiermnntt.
a* claimed by llcrlln.
Fort Koimuniont. Nnys tlie French
statement. In nn nilvnnce element of
tlie olil defensive organization of
Vcriluu fortress, and (jnon on to ?n,v
tlint tlio position captured Snturilny
inoriiinc hy the (irrinnnd, after ?ev
cml fruitless assaults, uqn rcnclied
acruitt Iiy French troops, irh(i stie
orrilcd In advancing beyond thnt
point, and hnve maintained tlielr
ground. The position referred to In
not clearly dcllnrd.
Ifenvy hmithn rdiueti t s by tlie t.er
niiniN to tlie east and nr.it of the
>1 en.se were met by vigorous coun
ternttnekK. nnil the French hnve re
sisted the attempts of the f,emtan.->
lo capture t'lianipiteuvllle and I,a
t'ot e-<ln-I'oi vre (l'epper II III >. two
positions of Ntruteeie Importance.
l.ate dlspatchcs front I'nrlo *nj
thnt ntntost confidence In felt there
In the ability of the French troops
to nlthMiiiiil the t.eriimii assault*!,
and in some <|U?rters a eontinnatloii
of the hattle centering around VeT
dnn for the nevt luo tveelii Is looked
for.
Vordun, greatest of French fortresses
and widely considered virtually Inv
preamble, is trembling undor an at
tack of unprecedented violence, which
already is declared )<y the Germans t<<
have been reached at the outer defenses
at one point, and driven back Its French
defenders upon their inner lines In other
sectors.
Under the eyes ?>f their Emperor,
whoso presence at the front Is ofllclally
announced, the Gernvjin infantry has
advanced to the charge on both sides
of the salient wherein lies Verdun, and.
according to Berlin, has stormed and
taken the outlying fort of Douaumont,
northeast of the fortress, while on the
i plain of the Woevre, to the east and
southeast. It has swept back the
French lines and broken their resist
ing power along a wide front, forcing
them to retreat, with the Germans In
i pursuit.
j The crown prim e's armies engaged in
tin* territlo battle have had their way
! blasted out for them, according to cor
respondents near the scene, by what Is
; said to be the greatest concentration
; of artillery tire known to history, It*
i which the monster guns of tho Ger
I mans and Austrian:*, brought from the
Serbian and Russian fronts, have played
an important part.
Tilkv ti.vi.v rouTii-"ii:n
POSITION'S TO MAST
With this mighty aid, tho infantry
have pushed down the Valley of the
Mctise, gained the hills southwest of
i 1,011 vemont, not more than four miles
from tin- fortress, and carried fortified
positions to the east, Berlin declares,
| ti>i- I sr andenhurg regiments particu
larly distinguishing themselves in
1 storming Fort Douaumont.
i While this was going on. the Ger
mans in the Woevre were assailing the
French lines on the eastern side of th?
' salient, the two operations apparent 1>
being des rued to push in the sides of
j the projecting front, a buckling pro
; cess, which. If kept up. would soon ro
' suit In the fall of the fortress.
The French, however, are defending
their stronghold with notable tenacity
and. according to various accounts. In
flicting terrible losses on the attack
ing forces. Paris has not conceded the
fall of Fort Douaumont. although ad
! mining that the lighting there had
i taken on an extremely sangulnarv
character, and it only mentions the
Woevre region in an announcement
that the advanced posts held for ob
servation purposes along tho line from
Ornes to Mennemont had been attacked
by the German infantry. Tho German
attacks along the front are declared
j by l'aris to he made without regard to
I the losses sustained.
! Notwithstanding tho concentration of
! attention upon the great struggle of
'the western front, tho current dis
patches show that events of considers*
