r- "-jti
'pr-r-i'fjfirwr' T"J"Sjl" '!"
'irw
UiellaIimatatt Sinter
WEATHER FORECAST:
. Overcast Tonight
, (Full Report on Pago Two.)
Sunday Evening
Edition
JlS
T7MBEB82a
WASPJJSTGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, FEBRTJABY 27, 1016.
PBICEONEOBNT.
VOTE DUE ON
Tragic Story of Marian Lambert, Modern Hagar,
Finds Parallel in the Death of Avis Linnell
Illinois High School Girl Joins Long Procession of
Those Unfortunate in Love Who Gave Their All
for Sweethearts and Then, forsaken,
LATE IN WEEK
IN 5 ATTEMPTS
- -"-i f ? y rpffyww.ti r
FRENCH FAIL
TO REGAIN FORT
BORLAND RIDER
; J "-
Opponents of lght-Hour Day
. for Clerks Given Time to
Line (Up Forces.
GREAT FIGHT IS EXPECTED
Congressman Gallivan Gives U.
S. Employes' Hope by Saying
Plan May Be Quashed.
LETTERS TO THE TIMES.'
Letters discunsinjr the proposed
eight-hour law will be found
en page eight of thiq isauc.
Indications now" are that .tht
Borland eight-hour "rider" will
not come to a vote in the House
until late this week.
This will afford opponents of
the proposed legislation additional
tjmc to outline their fight against
it and gather their 'forces.
By Thursday when the "rider"
probably will be considered, the
myriad 'agencies working against
the proposal will have crystalizedi
into one gigantic protest.
A memorable forensic and
parliamentary battle doubtless
wijl be 'fought on the floor of the
House" over the "rider.''
CLERKS GIVEN HOPE.
Government' employes ware given
hope by Congressman Galllvan of.
MTtasachusstta, that the "rldef" might
never come to a "rota' in the House.
.He expressed confidence In the ability
of the opponents of the legislation to
have, 1$, stricken oat on a point of
ordary on the ground that It will In
crease, Governmental expenses In
stead of decreasing them
Tomorrow morning Vice President
Marshall. Speaker Clark, and every
member of the House and Henate will
find on his desk a copy of the reso
lutions of strong disapproval against
th rider adopted by the board of
governors of the Retail Merchants'
Association. The resolutions were
mailed 1o the legislators today.
Mimeographed copies of the resolu
tion were also mailed to every com
mercial organization In the United
States. with the request that thoso
bodies protest to Congress against
the orlsctment of tho rider.
President J. Edwin Giles, of the
(Continued on Page Fifteen.)
Fi
r
Western Syndicate Plans to
Erect on Site Largest Hotel
in City.
One of the most Important real estato
deals of; recent months Trill be com
pleted tomorrow, when papers are ex
I'rr.ted to pass tnmsforrinir tho owner
ship of the Corcoran building, nt the
rnrner of Fifteenth street and Pennsyl
vania avenue, to a syndicate of West
ern capitalists who will demolish the
present bulldlnjr and erect on Its slo
lh largest hotel In the city.
The transfer of tho rroperty follows
long negotiation and tn"olveo a con
sideration of ibotit W0.000. t
The plans for the hotel are reported
to Include a convention hall large
enough to accommodnte suthcrlnga
which cannot now he taken cire of in
nny of the present hotels.
Tills feature tho promoter expect
will ennhle many of the larger conven
tions gathering In Washington to hold
Til theii- dellberatlonr under one roof
inetead of scattering about- the city.
Asquiths Playing Golf
As German Aeros Pass
LONDON., "Fob. 28 Premier Asqulth
as playinr Bolt with his wife at Wal
oier Castle, on the Kentish Coast, when
two German aeroplanes flow over the
course.
The taubes did not drop any bomui
o n the links.
The Atqulths are belnr entertained by
Lord Wordon.
Orpct Hearing Tomorrow.
CHICAGO. Peb. U-Wllllam IT. Orpet.
the University of WUconsIn student c
ijnsed of polonlnc Marian l.ambcrt In
Helms' 'oods three weeks ngo, will
! formslly arralKiied on the ihnr?o of
iiiurder In WoukoRsn tomorron
The Convenient Way AtiKiiatx rfpe
rlBl for rolumbla, Aiken. Augusta. I..-.
Washlnctnn, 7 p in tally Southern
railway. Advt.
CORCORAN
BUILDING
SOLD
OR 800.000
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI i WTiM' , .y . saaaaaaaaa aaaaaalalMaaaaal saTT iaaaaaag..i 'WM
XWi'W'mik'M-i - asaaaaaaaaaW aaaaaaLaaaaMLaaaaaaaaWaKralWll '
. 1 lBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBI3KaKiBB
1 BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBrtnBT
N. II r " VbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW V
XX BBVLMflBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBk .X llf . ' .
SS BaKBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBalBBBBBBBBBBk k -a "afiBi ' m'11 ..-. iBaBB.a i i i ii is ihbbbs s miwmmmmmtmmmm,mmmmmm "SSSn?.
1 wSS- KKmmM--WmmtSSmKI f',kh
BBBH W FBaJBBV BBBBBBWlBMBWTtfTnBhtinMBWrnBW sl 1 lif JfcilsVi T I T r-v IbTsBV VbRbV'' f ST SK B VI V?C, BBBBBBBBBBBBm 1
H' "" H BtalBlBlBBKfflBsWlffT M. lMBHttP'&t' V. J?f5iMBWiiBa-iJ 11 9BBBBBBK9S&aBBBBBK I
'bbbM 4; sbT lg OaBBBBBKlBBpgla& JrJTBBBBBBBBBtaayyyyVagfe'isllBBBaV, rABaBgBBiBBBMlBaii f -f, HMHLaaBBBBl
H ZfeV ValBlBfHaaWwm& iA&MnKIKmil! ZPtiZA, tmzimBmSV, J atataf II KIIbBbbBbBbbH
IbbBBBB m a3bbW?1U rT f JV BBBBBBBBBBBBWOBB9MfiaU4JBBH laiBMBBBBBBBBBBBBUbrHBBBBKJrBBIRll T BBBBBBBBBbV. 91. BBBBBBBBBBBBm JWbRbBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbI . JUBH
B mOT iSJUoTBBBBBBBBBBralHmilBRBBaBBBBBBBBaBBB " SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBbV
S ""SiBT alaHaVSalalaK i( WJWmm BBaKMM ' 4 .BBaBaBBauBaBaBaBBBaBiBaHa' SlalalaBHBlalaBalalalaHBlalalalaBBBlalalalaHiBBlalalalH AE bP tt
t2V MV 2 iBBSBSBSBSBSBaBa' jfa 4 I m VPthA BHBBIBBBBBEaBflBBBBnlBBBHBIBBBBBL BKj t 5 " iw!jty- OlsVrlfeFm' j' "
C0V ' j (i't''' f ' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBr '' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBaWmBBfisllBBBBBBBi BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBnt'v'l BBBBBBBBBBBBBBai
JUV vy V BBBBBBHaBBBBBBBBflHlBaBBBBBBBBBl BBBBBBBBBBBBBBflKsaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBai
'AVffllt' ' ' r 4Bafli' a t WBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
. .'-.Sty,SKr,.'- . - .Jti' H.. . - t !BBBBBBBVBBr I XJBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBr
Fifteen Thousand Persons!
Throng Great Tabernacle at
First Service of Campaign.
TiAT.TIMrmK. Md . Peb. ST. Intro
duced by Governor Harrlnirton, prayed
for by the Itov. IIURh HlroKncnn. roc:
tor of Baltimore's wealthiest nplscopal
conBreKatlon, and welcomed by a crowd
that (Hied every scat In the great tuber
nacle, tho largest yet built. Billy Sun
day preached his nrst sermon In Bal
timore this morning, and opened his
campaign.
In replying In the governor's wel
come. Sunday said ho had heard of Bal
timore's hospitality, was n friend of the
late Senator Arthur I Gorman, read
Kdgar Allan Poo's poetry, and "know
Neil Hanlon and his famous Orioles,
for Hanlon was an old side kick of
mine."
Though every seat of tho Tabernacle
was tilled, few were standing. That
meant nn audlenco of about 15.000 per
son. Outlines Campaign.
Sunday told nbout his plan of cam
paign, and Introduced mombors of his
party, before he began preaohlng.
While Governor Harrington made
his address of welcome, Sunday nerv
ously Inspected the platform ar
rangements, arranged his collar, and,
apparently to hasten the proceedings,
stood up beside the governor.
Whe,n the governor said. "Mr. Sun
day comes to bring no new message,
hut to teach tho old faiths," Sunday
nodded his head vigorously.
Aa the governor concluded, Sunday
(Continued on Page Thirteen.)
Kaiser Visits Fleet,
Drive May Follow
Inspects North Sea Squadrons
and Confers With Naval
Commanders.
COPENHAGEN, Feb 27. The Wll
helmshaveti Kcltung states that Km
perm William arrived at Wllhelmshaven
on Wednesday morning and Inspected
the warships thero
The Hmperor conferred with the com
manders of tho North bea fleet and Ue
partod tho same eonlng.
The Verdun attack wns reported to
hao been preceded by a visit of Km
peror William to the Uerman west
front
The Kmpcroi 's departure fiom thi
Verdun sector toVillielmJjaeii. morv
than VO) milt's dlvtant, hux not been ,ln
llnmted befoio Hut recent rcMirts ot
unusual nctlWly In tho Merman lli.ii
have given rliu-n to suvculutlun that a
dash Into the .North ea may be con-j
.iS'f- PVSMT. " .' -;AbbbbP f " '.i VH7
tnm ii i imi . iii ii ii i hi-Jm . . I ?SBaBBBa
ORPET and
40 Passengers Lost
When British Liner
Hits Mine Off Dover
LONDON, Fob 27 Tho 12,E00-ton
steamship Maloja, of tho Peninsular
and Oriental line, and slater ship of
the torpedoed Persia, has been sunk'
off Dover. .
It Is believed the vesscd struck a
mine.
.. .... -..-- .,. . i
no ueiniis oi uie o.susior nve uncn
received. The Maloja steamed from I
Safety First Show
ToBeOpenToday
i " k
Exposition at National Museum
May Be Seen From 1 :30
to 4:30.
lu answer to a popular demand, the
Government Satety First Kxposltlon, ot
the National Museum, will be open to
day fiom 1:30 to 4:so.
The local police held sway at the ex
position again yesterday, wnen "The
Price of Thoughtlessness," a film de
pleting tho dangers of carelessness, was
shown. Policeman W. 8. Shelby, the
official lecturer of the department, ex
plaining the "movie" to the audiences,
in connection with tho exposition, the
National Siifety First Association Is
exploiting a bill Introduced recently In
the Maryland legislature.
This measure. If passed, will require
all railroads operated in the State of
Maryland to equip at least two locomo
tive? with somo automatic stop and cab
signal device for lest purposes. The
system to be Itffltalled will be :elccted
by tho public service commission of
Maryland.
Improved Service to Asheville.
Land of the Hl.y I'retenl thiouuli
Iraulim ri.Mii nli 'ilnv omis on airl
nflir Miinh I, will ilso rnntsln iiwi-
jurtmenty. leaving Wnrhlngtuii. dully fm Feb. 28 to-.March . Thumgh sleep.
i p. in ioiitncru ltai'wii, 7K Uljiilng rurs Pouthrrn Itnllwa), 706 ISth st.
ww ., . , iu.l.
detectives at the scene of the tragedy.
Sydnei, Now South Wulex. December
24 for London.
Shu nrrlvod at Marseilles, January
31
The Persia, which was sunk oft tho
Inland of Creto on December 30, had
on board 450 passengers and crow,
unci of these 336 lost their lives.
.Thero wero 140 nassenKeri nuoarl
U(J Mll,oJu forty of who, woro Io,t
Warships went to her assistance.
Motor Kills Man
On Marlboro Road
Car Driven by E. H. Mosher
Brings Victim to Emergency
Hospital.
Fatally Injured by on uutomobllo
early today a man about forty-llvo
ycara old, whoso namo tho police believe
to bo Theodore Muske, Is dead at
Emergency Hospital.
A search has been Instituted to lo
cate tho dead mun's relatives.
Tho man was brought to Emergency
Hospital about 3 o'clock this morning
In an uutomobllo belonging to 13. H.
Mosher, u contractor, of 2100 First street
northwest.
Mosher told Dr. McDonald, of tho
hospital stuff, ho had struck the man
wlillo driving towuid Washington on
tho Marlboro pike, four miles from tho
District lino.
The man was unconscious when
brought to the hospltul unci did not re
gain consciousness. He died nt 7:33
o'clock. Ills skull wns fmcturod.
Mosher cuina to pollco headquarters
following tho man's doath. Later, when
Sheriff Hates, of Prlnco Uoorgo county,
arrived hero to Investigate tho case, he
wns tmrotcd In custody of his attorney,
pending mi Inquest which will be held
in Mt. Rainier tomorrow night.
Mosher placed him In the. car and
brought him to the city.
Visit New Orleans, Mobile, IVn.su-
tln ihlrltitr Mil nil flrna, Ijiiv hmml inln
" AUri.
Paid the
CHICAGO, Feb. 27. Comes a time when some ypung modern
Hagar is driven out to die in thnt wilderness where bleach the cast
off Loves o' Men.
Hard-ridden by the fear that she is to bring into the world an
other life "without benefit of clergy," the kinswoman of despised
lshmacl, with the hand of every man agdinst her, may end her own
unhappy life.
Or again, her body may float in upon a sluggish tide or be found
in some wayside thicket, bearing, unmistakably, the murder mark.
So that the end of these girls in the scarlet army js often only
the beginning of almost impenetrable police mysteries. Clue after
clue has to be followed; bit by bit evidence must be collected; little
by little circumstance must be pieced together before the story of
"One More Unfortunate," as an early poet phrased it, is dragged into
the light.
Such an one was Grace Aumueller, who trusted and was
J
EDWARD
slain by Hans Schmidt. He paid the toll of the qlectric chair not
longer than ten days ago.
Such an one was Grace Brown, found drowned in an upper New
York State lake. And because it was proven that Chester Gillettei
who had tired of her, hastened her drowning with blows, he also paid
the penalty of death. ,
Such another was Avis Linnell, the once-beloved of the Rev.i
Clarence Richeson, pastor of a fashionable church in Cambridge,
Mass. She, it was established, took cyanide from his hand, believing
it was a harmless medicine. So, instead of espousing the aristocratic
young woman who had driven Avis from his affections, he went1 to
wed the hangman's daughter.
LATEST IN GRIM PROCESSION.
And now -the latest In that grim pro
cession of the "Cast Offs" Marian
Lambert, schoolgirl of Lake Forest, the
millionaire vlllaee out on the ahoro. u
few miles from here, and light-love of
W4U Orpet, Junior ot the t'nlveislty of
Wisconsin
Whether she was self-slain, when her
stiffened body was found In Helm's
woods, or whether like Qraco Brown,
Anna Aumueller and Avis Linnell, she
waa struck down by the nana wmen
had betrayed her, tho grand Jury of
Lake county will consider when It meets
on March e.
Meanwhile tho ease Is presenting a
most baffling problem.
Awaiting the finding of tho grand
Jury, which will determine whether
he must face a trial for his llfo on a
charge of having murdered his sweet
heart. Will Orpet sits In tho county
Jull nt Waukcgan.
Ho It caught In the tolls of circum
stantial evidence which tho prosecutors
of Lake county declare will send him to
the death house. As be sits In n coll
which needs only a few nennnnts to
transform It to the typical rqom of tho
college youth that ho Is, twenty-two-eftr
old Will Orpet finds himself today
the npex of a tragic tilunclc
Befote tho officers of the law holed
him to Imprisonment n ii "material
witness," and later held him on the
finding of a coroner's lury. he had
hope'essly Involved two other lives with
Ills own.
Behind the Triangle Stands
Another Strange Figure
One was that of eighteen-year-old
Mnrlun Lambert, daughter of the gard
ener of the Jonas Kuppenhelmer estate
at I-nko Forest, adjoining that of t'jrus
II. Mci'urmlck, of which Orpet' father
I'" ninnauer.
The other Is thu
I of Oi pet's
"regulsr
Vouknr,
tilt I.' doe Is
MUs I'clestta
Price.
O. ORPET, father of thu prisoner.
T
daughter of a clergyman of Itnrilug
tpn, ill., and chemistry Instructor nt
tho state Normal school, DoKalb, III
It was because of his engagement to
IIMI ntirl n Ia.1 -.. .
Uuences' of his delations with I Marlam
the pollco assert, that the girl came
to her death.
And behind the triangle stands anoth- I
rt lrfllit.n fltr,.,, T. I. , , '
.,H..nv ..nM.i?. .i in mm oi n
young glrl-Josephlne Davis, the chum
of Marlon Lambert. From the time the
j body of the dead girl wns found, she
nas assumed the role of Nemesis. It
was from her that the pollco first
gained Information which, bolstered by
clicumstunce. landed young Orpet In his
coll.
,"i .ni0,vwh.1,e n11 "", Participants
await the finding of the grand Jury,
she sits and murmurs:
"t know Will orpct killed Mrlnn.
and I m waiting for him to confess,"
if't tho bnv nocc-pillv tiAri.iB i i.i..
protestations of Innocence although he
admits thnt Marian had been l!l sweet -
nAAnni...- . ' I'v..f..-. ,ii ii, r,
;- ", ' , , " '",l "i"ii ins Kweei-
heart-mlstres nn.rt that he was oresent
"Her Fault As
Much As Mine"
Ami In Jiinplvlng the motlv for the
suicide which lie charges ngainit tho
girl he nddH a single sentence
ii woh ner rnuii. us much as it was
mine."
In this sociologists alreaih ifeclam
they see a strange significance, in this
simple statement, thev assert, the
twcnty-two-yenr-old collegian uncoii
nclouslv lllngs a new challence tr the
new Feminism nnd the Slnclc .Moral
Code. .
Thinimhn'it he In" Indulged in no
Atlantic excuse. ' The womatt ternpttsl
lite" .N'oi Ins he v.l'h the rlualr) of
the old rn.'lme niolertcil th wmnpii
who I'.v liij ii A n iii'iiiImkIimi giivo hint all
Unit she liml In t!lr
Of this nmeli tif fielr case nsalnst
wii'iiK (iit the riillr. hae . n ii.-
tCuntliiued on S'-coud Puge.)
Conflicting Reports Regarding
Drive on Verdun Received
From Berliri and Paris,
FORCE OF ATTACK SPENT
Paris Believes Climax of Crown
Prince's Offensive Has Been
Reached.
BERLIN (by wireless to Say
vlllc), Feb. 27. An official dis
patch clven out today says that
fire French attempts to retake
Douaumont were repulsed. The
Germans reached Narc, north
east of Vis, taking Talou Hill.
PARIS, Feb. 27. Fort Douau
mont, the outlying link in the
permanent defenses of Verdun,
which was captured by the Ger
mans, has been retaken by the
French.
Under General' Joffre's direc
tion they have swept forward be
yond the fort in what is believed
to be the first stage of the French
counter offensive.
With the, early force of the Ger
man offensive apparently spent, the
French are resting on positions
especially favorable for hammer-
iing forwara tneir counter of
fensive..
WHERE ATTACK FAILED.,
These positions, at Champneuvllle,
close to the Meuse and along tho Potvro
heights, arc the points against which
the German wave has recoiled.
French troops were hurled against the
German lines with the same Impetu
osity and utter disregard of sacrifices
! that have characterises the German
drive.
According to the latest official ad
vices the French troops have succeeded
not onl In retaking the fort of Douau
- inont, but havo effectually checked the
. advance of the crown prince's army and
penetrated farther Into tho ground cap
tured by the enemy
1 Berlin bus not admitted (he loss of
! Douamont. and the latest official state
ments from the German war office as
sert the battle Is continuing With the
greatest ferocity.
Four and on-half miles north of Ver
dun. Pepper Heights, or the slopes of
(Continued on Page Sixteen.)
E
Germany's Reply, Now Believed
Here, May End Critical
Period of Controversy.
President Wilson and Secretaiy Lan
ding today awaited Germany s next
move In the submarine controversy.
With only two days remaining before
tho announced German submarine cam
paign against armed ships Is scheduled
to go Into effect, officials said today
that the next forty-eight hours will
bring the suhmarino issue to a head.
Count von Bornstorff, the German am
bnssador, received a lengthy communi
cation from Berlin late yesterday.
Embassy officials would not discuss
the nature of this document, but It was
presumed to bo the reply of tho German
government to tho memorandum of Sec
retary Lansing raising the question of
whether the ne' German policy con
travenes earlier assurances from Berlin.
Tho German ambassador Is expected
to communicate with Secretary I.anslne
Ltomorrnw
rW . '
look ior rosiponcmcnt.
State DopTtmem officials expect to
receive notification from tho ambassa
dor that Germany will postpone the In
auguration of Its nw submarine wai
faro while the diplomatic discussion Is
belns continued.
I'nlcss assur nees be glen that ves
sel legally aimed with defenslvo gun
ate given Immunity fiom attack until
an understanding is reached on the
nuent'on of armamonl. It wus definitely
Indicated toduy. the United States will
rcfuso further dlscufslon
Declonments of the last twenty-four
hours tint were accepted as favorable
Indications of u settlement of tho sub
mtrlne controversy were:
Piestdent Wilson definitely checked
th" li.surgcnt inoemcnt In l.'ongrcM ti
t-ike the stibniar'ne question out of his
Hands Tho Pieildent was assured that
there will ho no legislative interfcrenn
din Inn tho pie-nt status of Ike nego
tiations '
The Italan government leolloit to
,eereiHr ' inln-'s dumrmnmnnt pri.
l "OBJ la h t iohiii ni; nrgumen'i fcp-
ARMED
LINER
i:;:;ii
ATM
N48H0URS
A
