UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1916.
NUMBER 152
.
I
-8-.
TIGERS WHIP AGGIES
IK COMEBACK, 22-10
Missourians Outplay Basket
ball 'ictors of the
Night Before.
Candidate for Senator
FIRST GAME 27 TO 17
Van Gent Promises Condi
tionally to Challenge
Nebraska for Title.
Special Correspondence
MANHATTAN. Kan . Feb. 26. Com
pletely outplaving the Kansas Aggies,
Missouri's basketball Tigers came back
strong tonight and won, 22 to 10, in
the hardest fought game of the season.
The Aggies won the contest Frida
night, 27 to 17
In tonight's game the score at the
end of the first half was Missouri 13,
Aggies 4. The guarding and team work
of the Tigers featured the playing. It
was the fastest game plaved on the
local court in vears. The Kacisans
used three substitutes, while Missouri's
beginning line-up plaved throughout
the game
After the game, ( E Van Gent said
that if the Tigers win from Kansas
he would challenge Nebraska for the
championship of the Valley
In the first game the teams plajcd
twelve minutes before Missouri scored.
Williams the Missouri center, finall.v
H P .rise WrHK&la
LOCAL TRADE UNIONS
IN A LABOR COUNCIL
Carpenters', Printers' and
Barbers' Organizations
Are Represented.
IS ONLV TEMPORARY
EXHIBIT WILL TEACIH,
SCIENTIPOABY CARE
Proper Food, Clothing and
Furniture to Be Shown
at 10 North Tenth.
Walter S. Dickey.
Walter S. Dickey, Kansas City man-
1 ufacfurer, has announced his candida
cy for the Republican nomination for j
TTnftA.3 f O irs cnnntAH fr.. MUpnnpt I
...,,, ' , ' and the barbers' union were named for
.r. uicnev formerly was cnairman or
the Republican State Central Com-
Resolution Passed Asking An
nulment of State Pub
lishing Contract.
A temporary Labor and Trade Coun
cil was organized by Columbia union
members Fridaj night at a mass meet
ing in Thilo Hall. The permanent or
ganization, to be perfected net Friday
night, will affiliate with the American
Federation of Labor and with the Mis
souri federation.
Three delegates each from the local
carpenters' union, the printers' union
mittee. He was the chief worker in
the Missouri River navigation move-
thc council. The plasterers' union did
not name delegates. The bricklayers'
union is mot affiliated. A closer co-
inT.ornftnn tf yntn men l the nhiept
ment and is at present a director of the , .. . , ,. .
'of the trades council, according to H.
M. Casler of Oklahoma City, who is in
Missouri River Transportation Com
pany
ORCHESIRV 10 KEEP RIGHT ON
No sulking in Hanks Iterance Concert
was t Financial Success.
Although the concert given by the I Stephens
University Svmphonv Orchestra Feb- , Printing of the Supreme Court and
w-as successful in a side-sweeping shot ruary 15 was no- a financial success, Court of Appeals reports for the next
Columbia, representing the Interna
tional Tj pographical Union
Resolutions calling upon the state
I printing commission to annul the
i award recentlv made to the E. W.
Publishing Company for
for the basket.
At the end of the first half the count
was 13 to 7 in favor of the Kansans.
Adams, the Aggies' captain, made eight
of the thirteen field goals credited to
his team.
The game was exceptionally clean,
especially on the part of Van Gent's
men The Tigers allowed the Aggies
only two chances for three throws
One Kansas plaver was put out of the
game for fouls Shirkej was substitut
ed for Wear, the Missouri captain
George Venable, the director, will eon- si ear" were passed The commis-
tmue to build up the orchestra and
will give a concert next vear better,
ho ajs. than the one this vear.
"We intended to have the reed m
stnimr.ets of tha band repaired and
buy a lew more brass instruments
with the proceeds of the concerts,"
s.lid Mr. Venable. "but this dream has
been shattered Mr Stossel very
M. U. GIRLS TO HELP
Entire Outfit Prepared by
Home Economics Depart
ment in Demonstration.
No detail bearing on Every Babv's
welfare will be neglected by the women
in charge of the exhibit to be held at
10 North Tenth street every morning
this week from 10 to 12 o'clock and
every afternoon from 1 to 5 o'clock.
There will be a demonstration Wed
nesday on "Modifjing of Milk" and
one Thursday on "Bathing and Dress
ing the Baby," given by a representa
tive of the home economics depart
ment. The exhibit includes an entire outfit
of clothing for infants, made by the
students in the home economics de
partment. There are several tiny
pieces, all featherstitched in white.
Tljere are rompers of jellow, blue and
pink for Every Baby when he is 2 or 3
j ears old.
Every Baby is really "persnickety
about how he sleeps. Some of his
sleeping accommodations are on dis
play. He likes a sleeping basket of
soft straw (upholstered in silk, if his
mother likes it that wa). The "kid
coop'' displaved is appropriate tor the
sleeping porch. It is of white frame
work, covered with screen, with
springs and mattresses on the bottom
THE WEATHER.
tilt port iuil situnl i) imrain..t
or oiuuiii.i nini vi.fniti- i. .-!..
"" "e.lllltr MIllll.U. I -t ..,.,,1 , .,1,1
I ir Missouri: l'.irtlj tloud u.irtli, fair
VV ratlin- CoDilillona.
'I In- Atlmtie storm . ontiiiins to W tin'
m..t m irked .mil Inter, -tin., f.ti.r.. Vwi
ilaj nniniin,- its wiiter w.is just .iff Hut
tir.i. .mil siturilav iuunilnjr It was oft
I.t.m. It is un.' .if the must severe. M.irius
"i i iw mini r. giving win. Is .if uurri.-iiie
fiir.-e with Ih.uj nuu in .New York, "iw
Kngl mil I extreme Kjst C.in.ula If.
liillueii.e i of wide extent. rtMilitng west
w ir.l to tlie U"I ippi V.illej. where the
hi.ll-lft from the west exeetds Ml miles .111
hour, .mil to the .it it exttnds fir into
tli- ..-. in
hijrli pressure wave, attended b 1 older
we.ithtr. .inei-s the nrrltorj ntst of the
XII' !-ii. Imt, f.irtun itelj. another low
pressure nave from farther west will have
a iiio.lir.ilu iiitlueii.'c iiiou the Immediately
pre.- dint: 10I1I wave.
In Ooliimlila gimrallv fair anil . ohler
wtalh.r will pnvjll over sundav. but the
teiiiNTiturf prul.ibly will not fall lower
th ill .1) decrees
THE CALENDAR,
Uinli 1 Ajnes eott Luulmu. soprano
Lniverslt) Auditorium, auspices of
nil viu .vinn 1, b:ii p. m.
XI.1r4.I1 -University Assembly, "The
thaui'tiig Law." Deau Khlon It.
.TanieH, University Auditorium,
7:30 p. m.
M.ir.h 1 "Knglau.l anil Aiueriea: social
Parallel and Contra-ts" public
leiture by S. K. KiUlbV under the
uii-plees of Alphi Zet.i I'l, Y. XI.
A. Auditorium, p. m.
Vlirtb 0 Liilier.lt Aembly, the I!ev.
Hugh Illaik of Union Theological
smlnirv. University Auditorium,
7 -Sit p. 111.
Vlarib 7 st. Louis Symphony Orchestra
ami .virs. David Kriegshaber, solo
ist; University Auditorium, aupl
ies of I'hi JIu Alpha. 8:13.
AKCHITECr
.
TO EXILI VLKMi
IlUIRI RIKLs I.sK n ICK HEHE
a I niversity orsamzstion will not
"draw '
"The Cnivcrsitv. band cms several
.:ifits during the school vear. and
tills
sion. Fridaj nig'u from the Columbia ,
Migl !iocl and last mrfu irom,to ,ea tllen, and 1U em pood
Stenhcns Colleg.- miI,JC t J(,ar ft rpcor( km
aiepnens won b l'u 10 ie me nign
(. II. . Win. to 15: Stephens laVcs
X'Cond (illlic. Jo to 1(1.
The Prurv College girls invading
Columbia met defeat twice in succ fu
sion is composed of John T. Barker,
attornev -general; Cornelius Koach,
secretary of state, and John P. Gor
don, state auditor.
The resolutions claim that since the and a lid like that on an icebox Daddv
awarding of the contract the publish- could make one easilv
ing companv has emplo.ved inferior la- A "baby pen," also homemade, is for
bor The resolution will be voted upon babies from t". months to 3 vears of
by every labor organization in Mis-1 age. It provides freedom and exercise
generouslv agreed to come to Colum- soun, according to .Mr Casler without danger.
bi.i at a smaller price than he co.n- According to the figures of union men 1 The lollowing women are 'n charge
mauds in anv other civ. but even Jesterdav. there are about 130 union of this exhibit: .Mrs. I, C Smith. Mrs.
i'len w- failed to make monev There j workers in organizations in Columbia. ' M. I. Ravenel, Mrs. Guv L Noves, Mrs.
havealwavs been several reasons whv The strength of each union is as fol- George l.efevre. Mrs. E R. Hednck,
lows. Printers, fortv , barbers, twen- I Mrs. Grace Lindsay. Mrs g F Troxell,
ty-two. bnckl.ivers. hftecn, carpen- Mrs 1 L. McBnde and Airs. L. W.
ters. sixtv plasterers, nine; stwiemas- Dumas. Jr.
oils, eight About fiftv- other workers
causes tne students to appreciate are associated with labor organiza
the nforts thj- are made Uons in other towns.
nci'iivniH I'lionisKii micii
tl (llIE,r .
school girls won bj IS to 15
Both games were hotlv contested In
by those selling tickets o the orches
tra concert and out of even fortv
It. 1,1,0111 1111,1.
(tiiu to
srudents nnuroachrd one nnrcliased a
the high school game. Miss Martha jcXct- At the same time we took tick
Shockley and I.ila Green starred lor,tN up own and nPar aIi of the mer.
Columbia chan s boupnt th(.m It js the same
In the Stephens game. Mis Jiilia', Jhe facuv altllouh these two
Hulett and Aliss Adah Mae Walton t c,aSses naw ca opon lnp ban( for
tarred. Miss Joe Pierce, the pluckv ianv thing"
forward for Drury, made some excel-1 "
lent shots from almost the middle of "MNTEK KEVTKICE" l'l.EM.
the floor.
The line-up for Prurv was: If,
Pierce, rf. Kump. c, McKesson; c,
Leonard; rg. Workman; Ig, Watkin
son. The line-up for Columbia High
School was: If, Green; rf, Vandiver; c,
McDonnell, c, ShocMej . rg. Caven-
augh, and lg. Barkwell The lineup
for Stephens was 1. Hulett. rf, Wal
ton, c Jackson c, Williams, rg. Hoe
fer. and lg. Walker
Hut Miss Em inn Freeman ticciilcd Old
M:i.v of !!:itliiiiL- Hi tit r.
Soventv-five iotn ial Rock Island
Red frvs" Mis Knnn? Freeman of
1517 Windsor street wa- filled with
thoughts of delicious fried chicken in
-pring. .is sli placed the
Three-let I'laj Presented lij
Fortnlghtlv Club.
"Sister Beatrice," a three-act play,
was presented by the Fortnightly Club
(0ll.1lcr.il Heirs Wa uikc
Cain -2H.IMI0 Estate.
Tne will of the la c Simeon I!
I.Iovd. mad'' in i;il,!, probablv will be ' the early
contested at the April or Jnn term eggs in the incubator Prompted by
of the Boone County Circuit Court an announcement of a drop 111 tem
by the collateral heirs. "I'ncle Sim," I perature a few hours later. sV turned
as he was known, died Januarv 25 at J the coal oil lamp of the incubatoo
the home of his niece, Mrs. Eima l. 'high 'o assure a heat of 10.. degrees.
Llovtl at lull Walnut street. Ha had 1 "What's wrong?" she asked at .1
lived with her over five vears. and (o'clock in the morning when she
the I to her and her daugh'er. Miss Pearl. heard her sister in the hall.
had willed the major portion of his f Theie was a decided odor of coal
. lorbitt will Attend Hotel Mass
.Meeting- Tomorrow.
A. N. Torbitt of Springfield, archi
tect lor the Daniel Boone Tavern,
will attend the mass me ing at the
courthouse tomorrow night to explain
the details of the new hotel plans.
The meeting will be in charge of E.
W. Stephens. The committees will
try to complete "he $20,000 bonus, and
AwKljiKtLdpEH
SIMPSON DEFEATS
LOOMISj FLOYD SETS
Bosworth Boy Ties Low
Mark in 50-Yard Hurdles,
Winning Over Chicago
Rival in 6 Seconds Flat.
LEAP BYM.A.A.iMAN,
12 FEET S 1-2 INCHES
Warren and Relay Team
Add First-Place Points in
Clean-Up by the Tigers in
Kansas City Meet.
file
I. 11. Iiiimas. Jr.,
Man IMm Mill liniltl the lintel.
I.I.N EH M'Nh: MEN KEMTEII
That
estate, valued at about $20,000. The
minor heirs were: Mrs. Belle Tapp,
last night in the University Auditor- Miss Hallie Llojd, Ross Llojd, Tom
lium before an appreciative audience! my Llojd and .Airs. Gussie Smith.
I for the benefit of the upperclass worn- The heirs contesting the will will
Jen's aid fund be represented by Gillespy & Conlej.
' The play tells the story of Sister Airs. Llovd and her daughter will be
I Beatrice, a nun. who is unable to with- represented by Finley &: Sapp.
I stand the wooing of Prince Bellidor
and runs away with him. The Virgin
takes the form and face of Sister Beat-
llido ;es Down, and Fear
Lives Have Been Lot.
I!y I nited I'res
LONDON. Feb L'tl The AVilson lin
er Dido has been sunK, and it is feared I
that lives have been los . The chief
officer and two of the crew, the only
ones accounted for. were picked up by
a Belgian steamer.
rice to shield her and to conceal her
flight from the other sisters of the
FRENCH KEf.'UN LOST l.'KOI'MI
Fort lloiiaiiiimt Is Recaptured, .Ms)
.statement From Wnr Ofiice.
liv Cnited Prefs
PARIS. Feb. 1'fl The French troops (lent
have recaptured Fort Douamont. lour l
miles northeast of Verdun, from the
Germans, according to an official
s atement from the Fmich war office
tcnight.
Should the will be broken, Mrs.
Elma I' Llovd. not being a blood re
lation, will be practically excluded
from sharing in the esta'e. The plain
tiffs, being blood relations, will gain
convent. Twentv-five jears later the , all except the grandniece's share, j
real Sister Beatrice returns to the which will go to Miss Pearl Llovd. i
convent to die. The Virgin returns to The reverse is true, according to the
her pedestal and Sister Beatrice con- will made by Mr. Llovd.
fesses her sins to her sisters After
receiving their forgiveness she dies. jlOFNC HE.MOCHITS TO HE HEHE
Mrs. Jonas Viles as Sister Beatrice ,
was verv successful with a dIffjcuIt e Jefffron Hay ItaBqiict 3foTl to
part, as was Miss Louise Nardin in the
role of the Abbess. All the parts were
oil. Going to the basement, they
found it thick with smoke. The dis
covery was timely, in that a fire that
might have destroved the house was
prevented. But as for the Rock
Island Reds, thoughts of thm evapor
ated like smoke in the basement.
"No more incubators for me!" said
Miss Freeman. "I expect to raise
chickens in the old-fashioned way.
in the future."
.MOKE III) FOR TIOCTOK STOWEHS
'1
Columbia From Mexico.
Columbians Send Hospital supplies to
31. U. Man in France.
Another box of hospital supplies has
been sent by the Red Cross circles of
Columbia to France, to Dr. James E.
Stovvers, who is a graduate of the Un
iversity The box contained six sheets,
j thirty-six pillow slips, twelve abdomi-
Tlm x-i, xtonv u.n,.r,ii nu,h I nai oanuages, tninv-six triangular
...,, ....... f, ..... .,v........ ..,.,
the committee to approve the plans for
the building will be named. The per
sons who have contributed to the bo
nus aie expecttd to attend the mee ing
to name this committee.
"There will be a few short speeches
and an open discussion of the hotel
plans." C. O. Hanes. sscretary of the
Commercial Club, said jesterday. "All
questions on the hotel will be pn-swered.
Recen' donations to the hotel bonus
have been fJ.'i by the Carpenters' un
ion and $10 by the Woodmen of the
World.
M. r. M IX
('.
I'AyrOKAT CENTIUMA
capablj filled. The lighting effects, es-
lof Missouri will meet in Columbia
peclallv in the third act, were excel-' Apru '- lo I""-cila-.e 111 uie annual
jelleron Day banquet, ihe organiza-
tion was to meet at Alevico March ::.
HEI.11EKY IU'.MNESS SOLI) 'The change was made on account of
I quarantine for scarlet fever ther-, the
executive committee acting on the
,1. F. Howell Vlso Acquires Farm Land
llith Joint I. Cook.
bandages, sis T bandages, three
shoulder capes, six pairs of pajamas.
six night shirts, six handkerchiefs and
twenty-four hot water bag covers.
The Red Cross clubs of the city are
still making and collecting supplies to
be sent to Europe. They will be glad
I". I. ('. Donates ?.-, for Hold. ,
John S Marmaduke chap'er of the
United Daughters of the Confederacj '
met lat Friday at the hom of Mrs F
H Hoberecht- A business session i
voted to have a window of eatables
March A at the Tavlor Music Store,
and alo donated S5 to the Daniel j
Boone Tavern. I
in I rad
A deal has been concluded by E
U Dauchcrty. rp.il estate dealer, in
which J F Howell of Dexter. Mo.,
traded "NO acres of land near Dser,
valued at $15,600, to John I Clark of
Columbia for 170 acres of land six
and a half miles northeast of Colum
bia, valued at 12.000. and Air Clark's
delivery business of Columbia, valued
at $5,500
FIKEMEX MVKE A TEST RIX
If. M. Ilamlr. Jr. Mops Off Here.
Russell M. Bandy. Jr . who -. grad
uated from the School of Journalism
of the University last jear. is in Co
l.tinh'n ioitlni' his fnfher. R. XL Ban-
Slate omces win oe nere to mane ad-"""" .nine " rmmi -" -- (v Sr (ja R0semarx lane. Air Bandv
dreses More than a thousand mvi- qnired to Reach Tfrfrfnla Building. Is" 'now'COnnected with the advertising
tatlons will be sent out by the Colum- unu minute ami nueen seconus was oepartrnent of the Merchant's Trade
oia jenerson uiud.
suggestion of James E. Boggs of Co- 'to recehe an contributions. Offerings
lumbia. who is member of the com- snou,u M""" inuiy avenue.
mittee and vice-president of the club.
Candidates for governor and other
0. I'urdy, Graduate Student. Goe-
to First Christian Chureli.
C. O. Purdy, a student In the Grad
uate School of the Universi y and in
the Missouri Bible College, has been
appointed pastor of the First Chris
tian Church of Centralia. He will
begin his duties April 2.
Mr. Purdy is a graduate of Drake
University, where he was a jnember
of the football team and represented
the school in oratorical contests. He
was for two years chaplain in the
United States Army Engineering
Corps in Panama. For the last two
vears he has done graduate work, in
the University and in the Bible Col
lege. Mr Purdy is married and has
one child.
Special Correspondence
KANSAS CITY, Alo . Feb. 26 "Bob"
Simpson evened up an old grudge
against Joe Loomls tonight when he
beat the lanky Chicago runner in a
special 50-vard hurdle race In the K.
C. A. C. indoor meet.
It was necessary for the Missouri
star to tie the world's record doing Jt.
But he apparently had no trouble and
finished well ahead of the Chicago ath
letic Association man in 6 seconds Hat.
The Bosworth boy also romped o
in the open 50-vard hurdle event. R"n
ick. another Missouri man, finished
third. Simpson. Loomis, Daggy of
Alissouri, Jacobs of Oklahoma were
men entered in the special event an
ishing in the order named.
Other Tigers besides Simpson won
honors. Warren won the 16-pound shot-
put with a hurl of 3b feet 10 inche
beating Barnes, K. C. A. C . and RebT,
Kansas University Selbie, a Miou-
ri treshman, finished second in the
open 440- ard run. which a K. c A C
man won in 55 2-5 seconds. .'ab'"
man. Missouri, finished third in the
handicap 1,000-yard run.
Relav Team Heats Oklahoma.
The Alissouri relay team Niedorp.
Eaton, Paggy. Wjatt had little trou
ble beating the Oklahoma four in the
mile relay event, time, ;' min'it- .'6
seconds. This was one sccid slower
than the time of the Kans.rs t-vm
which beat the Kansas Argies and Ne
braska The disappointment of the evening
was the failure of Ted Mt rcilitb. tne
Pennsvlvania runner, who finished te--hind
Earl Eby of the Chicago Athlenc
Association and Rodkey of Kansas in
the SJO-vard run; time, 1:57 1-5.
The high jump went to Fnzzel, Kan
sas Aggies, at C feet 2 inche-S. J O
Loomis, Pittam (Alissouri) and Tre
weeke (Kansas) tied for second place
at 6 feet 1 inch.
Floyd Breaks World's Record.
Flovd. representing the M. A A. of
St. Louis, vaulted 12 feet 8 1-2 inches,
breaking the record of 12 feet 5 inches
for a vault on a board floor, held by
Rocne. Notre Damo. The indoor rec
ord for dirt floor Is 12 feet 9 inches
Flojd failed in a trial for IS feet
Powell vaulted 11 feet 6 inches
Hani'Stealing Gets Xeeroes in Jail.
Leonard Schooling and Roy Brown,
One minute and fifteen seconds was
the time taken by the Columbia fire
truck to make a run from the fire sta
tion to the Virginia Building last night
Jill a ic'si in ine sjiriiiKier ssieiu ui
COMIX! FOR ADVERTISIM; D1T
150 St. Louis Business Men Will Bt
Here May 3.
The North St. Louis Business MenV
Association has expressed i's inten
tion to send a delegation of 150 mem
bers to Columbia on Wednesday, May
3, of Journalism Week. This day will
be Advertising Day on the week's pro
gram. The St. Louis men will make
the trip in a special train, arriving iD
Columbia In the morning and leavinf
that night. The association has ap
pointed a committee o take charge of
the arrangements. The chairman or
the committee will come to Columb-a
next month to complete arrangement-;
Some of the members of the S .
Louis association will have a part on
the dav's program. Among the other
principal speakers for Advertising Day
will be E. L. Schuey of Dayton, Ohio.
president of the American Association
of National Advertisers, and Courtlar.d
Smith of New York City, president ard
general manager of the American
Pres Association
I
The new owners will take posses- ( necr0es. were brought to the county .fire protection recently Installed in the
sion March 15 Mr Howell will con
tinue the merchant delivery business
in Columbia.
1. 11. C. 1. lisper Serviie I'odav.
The Rev M A Hart will speak on
'A Personal Challenge to Christian
ity." at the vesper srvice of the Y.
IV C A to be held at Mrs. Turner i!t r-iteii Pre
McBalne's home at 4 15 o'clock this URBANA. ILL. Feb. 26
afternoon Mi
will sing
Wisconsin Wins Dual .Meet. U-4.
jail here this afternoon by Constable building.
B B Brown of Sturgeon. They will Chief Earl N. Kurtz set off the alarm
serve six-month terms for stealing six at the Virginia Building and the other
hams from R. M. Fountain. The jie-j members of the department made the
groes hid three of the hams and took' run.
the other three to Aloberly in suit I Bv the new system the alarm Is giv-
Jonrnal of Des Moines. la., and is re
turning from a business trip to Florida.
College President 1 iil Here.
.Airs. Virginia A. C. S cckard. pres
ident of Cotey College at Nevada.
Mo, is fie guest of Airs. U AV. St.
Clair-Moss. president of Christian
College. Mrs Stockard Is returning
from he inauguration of President
Wisconsin
Alabel McCutchan defeated Illinois 44 to 42 in the indoor cases, where they tried to sell them to Jen at the fire station and the building Sersna of AVilliam Woods College at
auai tracK meet nere loaay ine grocery stores.
British Active on the llesftrn Frocr.
ISr fnlK.l I-re
LONDON. Feb 26.The Briti-h
have exploded three mines successful
ly near Loos and have repulsed a "r
man raid on the British trenches nar
Marlcourt, It was reported today.
at the same time.
Fulton.
Flue Burns: Department Called.
The fire department answered a call
to the residence of .Airs. Victor Bartb.
1221 East Broadway, about 8 o'clock
last night. The flue burned out 'o
damage was- done.
