s
i
t t f
, If v i v . V .
j , vol. lv;i!. r:o. zs
P . . . . M t r -
i s w & " ' W j ip f V'w'i ; "i. m J I
4 4 - & Ji.. """"""" A V "O' ii-i W 4' . 'i i'
f u w t- i i w
Pr
::n 13 ' th-3 City"
riO'-' I il Cl
ivutui Li
it
T
1 4
rnts, r js rf rt
r ;) i,! 'I
mm mm wm
Ausirians Retire in East GaMcia. .
Ijondon, Juno 29, 10.0S p m. Tfi
Austrian ofiiclal communiSEition " re
ceived here tonight reports that the
AiMtrians have been compelled to re
! -e from part of their front at Kolo-
i-ea, In iast Golicia and southward.
i Vital Pcint at Issua Now is FuIltd Atuti:!
.Toward OurTrccps
ir;o a:;3itratio?j pending ca:..".a::lys ceply
Intimations Have Come to Washington That "Carraaza-; Iii
L tends to Back Up the Orekrs I:;ueJ to General Trevjrso
Directing That American Trocps MavL- Ol'.crwLs
'Than North be .''Attacked- Twenty-three Troopers' of
' . .Tenth Cavalry Were Turns J Over to 'GeaersJ DcTJ at El
Paso All the Clothes Thsy Were Were Thrown Away
and the Men Were Given a Vinegar Dalh -Three Said
Had Been Robbed 'of Money and Valu:!:!3.
fuse to answer any mora Questions."
SpiiisBury said that immediately on
s arrival in Chihuahua City the
commander - of the Mexican army
corpa of the north sent for him and
slsed him to outline the Carnzal en
counter as he saw it, which he did.
He Eaid he was unable to say who
red the first shot and added that the
American - command . engaged : there
limbered 76 men. ten of the original
S6 comprising the detachment having
been cent back from Santa Maria,
NEGRO TROOPERS' VERSION ,
a V OF THE CARRIZAL, FIGHT
One Asserts that Wounded Americans
Were Killed After the Battle. .
They
! Washington, June 29. The Wash-ling-ton
government still awaited tonight
'lull compliance with its demands by
the fle facto authorities or Mexico.
Release today by General Carranza's
order of the American nrisoners taken
fsvt Carrizal has averted the probabili
ty of Immediate retaliatory steps. It
mv also have helped to pave the way
Howard an attempt at peaceful settle
ment or the whole border situation.
hilgh officials made It very clear, how
ever,' that the vital point at issue
th future attitude of Mexican forces
toward American troops m . northern
Mexico , engasred in fruardmg the
'border and pursuing bandits who raid-
led American territory remains to be
.settled. -
No Diplomatic, Developments.
The state department had no advices
'tonight as to When a diplomatic re
:p)y to Its demand might be expected.
(The Carranza. government has adopted
;th tmsuai course of complying in fact
JWith an urgent demand from a foreign
government before it acknowledged re
jcelpt pf the note or made any state
ment ut what it proposed to do.
( Will Hurry Troops to Border.
! fending a satisfactory answer to lt
second and more far-reaching require
ment, the United States will, continue
to hurry troops to the border and to
take every step necessary in prepara,-";
tion for the currying out of its pur
pose by force of arms.
Indications That Carranza Will Back
L Trevino. '
I Intimations have ccme, it Is under-'
stood, that Carranza intends to back
,up the orders issued to Genaral Tre
vino directing that American troop3
;be attacked if they moved in any di
rection in Mexico except toward the
jborder. Officials are fully prepared fr
B reply of that character, despite the
tact that the prisoners taken at Carri
zal have been ' promptly surrendered
on demand. . . .- -
r They expect, however, that the re
affirmation of position will be made in
m. note free from hostile language and
continuing the discussion of the ad
visability of the withdrawal of Amer
ican troops from Mexico.
Determined to Gel Clear Statement."
' Apparently Secretary Lansing is de
termined to get a clear statement of
Intentions on which action by the
United States can be founded. Car
ranza officials profess an earnest de
sire to avoid a clash, however, and a
further struggle to fix diplomatically
for hostilities that may come is fore
shadowed. Mediation Offer Not Acceptably.
Wt. Lansing made it lear today to
Ignaclo Calderon, minister from Bollv
la, that pending a formal reply from
the Carranwi government to his late
note no offer of mediation would be
acceptable to the United States. The
minister had noted reports that the
Carrizal prisoners had been released
B.nd called to fsee whether that had
changed the attitude of the Washing
ton government. Mr. Io.nsing again
succeeded in convincing 1:4s caller that
H would be a waste of time to attempt
to talk about mediation at this stage,
whatever might be possible later.
I Nothing to Arbitrate.
' The attitude of the government on
tills question, as officially outlined
later, is that arbitration is wholly out
of the question; that the United States
hsi nothing to arbitrate. If General
Carranza should withdraw his hostile
orders, however, and tlien propose
that an attempt be made to formulate,
through mediators, an agreement of
some sort for joint operations in pro
tecting the border,, it might receive
i consideration. No plan would be ac
ceptable to the United States,' how
ever, that In any way hampered its
own efforts to guard the lives and the
property of Its citizens.
Right to Pursue Bandits Will Be Ex
' ' ercised. .
The right to pursue raiders Into
Mexico will be maintained and exer
cised without interruption, and If the
border can be properly protected only
. by temporary military occupation of
Mexican territory adjacent to the line,
that will be the course pursued.
Will Not Consent to Military Status
, Quo.
If. in understood that the .Washington
rovernment would not under any cir
cunwrtances consent to a military
Status uo during a discussion of pos
sible co-operative measures. Officials
Indicated they had little hope that an
agreement far co-operation could be
arranpfd. The United htates already
baa declared officially its belief that
General Carranza is unable to guaran
tee afiequata precautions on the Mexi
can eide of tne line. It also has in
formed him it has reason to believe
. that trie bandits have been encouraged
and ai'led by lus forces in certain in
stances. "
Relaxation of Tension. t
' Thra temporary relaxation of tension
rf.re wu indicated today by .President
Wiison's trip to Philadelphia to de
liver nn address. (Mr. Wilson returned
Jonieht. and .!.e of the first matters to
(rpivo his urtention win oe tne na
till ruirl dt lit r "olution adopted
-! Under the author
t "ii t e
president may apply the draft' to
guardsmen by , proclamation at his dis
cretion. When he will take that step
nas not. been .decided.
. Little Definite Information.
The war department had little defi
nite information . today as to the
progress of the guardsmen toward llx
border, although messages announcing
the departure of various units poured
in from all sides. . General Funston's
headquarters now is the only place
where accurate information is avail
able S to when any substantial part
of the Btate troops will arrive -on the
line. . - , ' :-. ;
No Additional Reports from Pershing,
- There were no additional reports
irom general Pershing as to the Car-
rizal fight. Bliseo Arredondo. Mexican
ambassador-designate, made public a
copy of the statement attrabited to
Lm faplltebury. interpreter for Can-
tain Boyd and one of -the prisoners
turned over today at El Paso to the
American military authorities. . It lays
rne oiame ror tlie Clash upon the
Americans. , - ....
Final decision' bv ''Washington: off!
clals as to the responsibility for the
ugiiung cannot xe reached until a com
plete report from General, Pershing is
avanaoie. tie is eatnerln-g -Irom- sar
vivors All information they -haver es t
El Paso, June 29. In 'the Immigra
tion . station here the negro troopers
old their stories of the Carrizal fight
and their experience sat Viila Ahuma-
da and Chihuahua City. -
William D. Gibson. C troop. New
York city; Archie Jones, K troop, of
Washington, D. C, and Luther Alex
ander, C troop, Columbia, Tenn., the
latter two beintr slightly wounded In
the arm, were emphatic in their state
ments . that the Mexicans - shot the
wounded Americans on .- the field at
Carrizal. -.' . ' : .
Those who could speak a little Eng
lish bragged about shooting . a-ir boys
while - we were - going- through Villa
Ahumada,C Jones said. "Several boys
lying justToeyond me at Carrizal were
not fatally wounded, but when I went
past them they were dead with, several
bullet TOfUmdc in tVipin hndiA"
' ..J " . i
They stole my 1100, my half-carat, i
oiamona ring ana my it -jewel watcn,"
Gibson said, "and when we were penn
ing through .'"Villa Ahumada and Chi
huahua City the people threw stones
and coal at us." .-. '
They got J90.35 from me, but they
fixed my arm up all right," Jones add
ed. - .. . .. ; v; '.. ;.,
"It was a day and a half before they
looked at my Shoulder," asserted Al
exander, the most seriously wounded.
Then they didn t dress it very well.
Gibson was the trooper who silenced
the two Carranzista machine guns, ac.
cording to the stories told, by "his fel-
. i J v ! u i i
i ' I I & I 5 8 i S
1
AT VARIOUS RAILROAD'STATIONS
.- "'- ':. IN. INDIANA ...
AT EUSTILLO, ON THE NORTH-
WESTERN RAILROAD "
.' IN GOOD ' IIZALTH
Major. Isbell of the Second Regiment
Has Established a School Aboard the
Train Routine Duty Performed.
Port Wayne, Ind, - June f 8. The
first section of the Second Connecti
cut regiment arrived here at 7.S0
o'clock tonight and was accorded an
enthusiastic greeting by a crowd that
packed the railroad station.' After a
short stay, the troop train proceeded
over the lines of the . Hock Island
railroad. - . -
At Crestline, Ohio, a stop of 45 mln
utes was made today and the guards
men thronged ice cream pariors. The
town was stripped of souvenir post
cards and a heavy mail was sent back
east.'
Major Isbell established school
aboard train today and two sessions
were held. Koutine duty has been
established. Part of the time the men
were engaged in stamping the new
metal identification tags.
The health of the regiment con
tonues to be good and the men are
eager to reach the border.
TROOPERS .BROUGHT TO . "
THE INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE
General Bell Was Waiting With i
Written Receipt for Their Delivery.
El Paso Texas, June . 29. The 23
troopers of the Tenth Cavalry and
Lem H. Spillsbury, Mormon scout,
wera brought to the international
bridge At 3:15 o'clock this, afternoon,
General Bell was waiting with a writ
ten receipt for their delivery. -
The actual transfer was at 3:16 when
General Bell's receipt. , passed into
Mexican hands.
The reruhn of the men to "American
' soil was delaved some time after
low soldiers. Gibson was at Captain i General, Bell had given the receipt
Boyds side when the officer, with a i while- they were given a vinegar bath
bullet through his shoulder, ran to the at the immgration station abutting on
i ar tor water ana men returnea to i the bridge near this side
the fighting line to meet his death.
"The captain- said to me: 'God. if I
could only stop those machine guns,' "
Gibson said.' "I told him Id try to
pot those fellows, so- I dropped flat
under a little tree and, being a sharpshooter,-waited
for the fellow , who
was operating" the gun from the "cen
ter. Pretty soon he raised his head
from the trench where the gun was. I
missed him, but in a minute he looKed
up asaln and I got h'm Thn I turn-
-ed-suround"aiid -govthe feilovr - who was
All the clothes the men - wore In
Mexico were thrown away and they
were ireshly clothed.
Three of the negro troopers declared
they were certain that several of the
American wounded left on the field of
battle at Carrizal .subsequently were
killed by the Mexicans. The men
making these statements were Archie
Jones William D.-Gibson and Luther
Alexander. They said they ba-i been
roboed of money and valuables..
i (
9 f a
a. in at I
ic i..OiJiiiZiiil
mi thousat;d strong
Large Bodies of Mexican Troops Are
Said to be Moving Toward the So-
- nora-Chihuahua Border.
Columbus, N. M., June- 29. Accord'
ing to reports received here, ten thou,
sand Carranza cavalry have toeen mo
buized at Bustillo on the Mexican
Northwestern Railroad. Twelve thou
sand men are at Villa Ahumada, 2,000
are at Guzman and General P. Elias
Cailes of Sonora is moving large bod
ies of troops toward the Sonora-Chi
huahua border. ,
MEXICAN PAPERS TO PRINT
PRESIDENT WILSON'S NOTE
In Answer to the Demand' for With'
dfawal of Troops. ,
Mexico City, June - 29. Announce
ment was made at the foreign office
today "that President Wilson's recent
note answering the communication of
General Carranza demanding the with
drawal of American troops from Mex
ico City would be published tomorrow,
Publication of the note is awaited
with great Interest by the Mexican
public. -
SIX CASES OF SMALLPOX . -
,s DISCOVERED IN WATER BURY
Alf the Patients, Who Are Colored, Are
j in the Isolation Hospital.
Waterbury,' Conn.,' June 29. Six
persons, all colored, are in the isolation
hospital in' this city tonight, four of
them suffering, with smallpox.- One of
the cases is severe, but the other ttiree
are mild. One of the patients had
been at work in one of the factories
all day. His mother and one of his
children are ill with the disease. An
ether patient was taken from a lodging
house occupied by negroes.
The health authorities are .making
strenuous efforts to prevent an epi
demic. : .- ,.
The Eerlirv Taaeblatt lias been sup
pressed. . .
f?trorrtbcli and Vesuvius are aain In
acuve eruption.
1
Mrs, Mary Monro, aged 105. died at
Binghamton, N. Y.
Arabian rebels have taken Medina
from the Turks, after a siege. .
Ausirians Give .
to Russians:
i
IN
AN ATTACK OVER FRONT OF'
25 MILES IN GAL1CIA
French troops have quelled & seri
ous native uprising in Algeria. -
UNABLE TO HOLD THEM;
Joseph M. Tilden of New York was
elected president of .Lombard college.
The Dutch steamship Ualstroom has
foundered at sea. The crew was saved.
The Jap steamer Da i yets u Maru and
the Italian steamer Clara have been
sunic
t.
Buffalo's aviation squad of S2 mem
bers was mustered into the federal
service. . " ' - .
Orders for. approximately 1,500,000
pounds or meat . for army use have
been placed at Chicago. ,
Attorney General G"egory has en
rolled for duty at the summer' in
struction camp at Plattsburg.
White Hackle, ths 120,000 horse own
ed by W. R. Coe, died of pleuro-pneu-
raoma at Belmont Park, N. x. .
An order for 6,000,000 cartridges was
placed with the United States Car
tridge .eompany by the government. ,
General Carranza signed a deorse
imposing new and heavy taxes to meet
increased expenses of administration.
.
Governor Whitman eommutefd to life
imprisonment the death sentence of
Antonio GiOrdino, convicted of mur
der. .
Twenty captured .Mexican bandits
are being taken to Columbus, Mex.
where tneywiil be Kept in a wire
cage. - - - - -
Villista officers held In Carranzista
prisoners are being released are given
commissioners in the Mexican, federal
army.
take much precaution and I got him
on the first, shot. Apparently thev
had only two machine gun operators,
tor - the guns were "not worked any
more. Later they told me I had put
tne guns out or order. ,
In Gully in Center. of Field.
what' happened aati wiUHMrtwwtfc-'.ll4Pwatiog nthVleft flans':" He'dldrVt
m-purx jo secretary i,aser, wr.o will in
turn transmit it to the state depart
mem, tor consjaeuauon, ,.,
Protest Seizure of Property.
It. became known today thr-t renre
sentations were forwarded to (Tonerai
carranza several days ago in regard
to tne seizure by Mexican officials of
vast quantity of American nrnnertv in
Anexico since tne- aeparture of: many
Americans for the north. The protest
was similar . to tl-s submitted Uater
to faecretary Lansing .by Mr.. Arredon-
ao in regard to the 'border embarcrn
the alleged ill-treatment of Mexicans
in tue united States and other mat
ters.- 'No reply has come to the Ameri
can representations and none has been
ue to Mr, Arredondo.
EIGHT AMERICAN SOLDIERS
:..',,'; ' , . Z.' HAVE DIED- IN MEXICO
As a Result of Fever or Wounds Re-
" " ceived in Battle.. J
Columbus,' "N. "' M' " 'June 29. The
l:
INTERPRETER SPILLSBURY
TELLS OF CARRIZAL BATTL
Isn't Certain Whether Captain Brfyd
Was Brave or Foolish.
El Paso, Jan. 29. Scheduled to sr
rive In Juarez eariv this
the ' special train ordered hv noncoi
Trevino at Chihuahua to carry the
twenty-four sAmerican prisoners to
the border, in response to President
Wilson's rremptory demand, did not
reach Juarez until noon. Departure
was made in the night, the prisoners
being taken , to the train secretly, so
as to avoid arousing the neonle -'
As the negro soldiers left. th ran
at Juarez, derisive whistling rose
from the crowd. Th faces of most of
the troopers looked1 drawn and they
presented an odd appearance. Their
uniforms had been .taken from them
t v ;,a jinumaoa. They wore - a
motley coHection of hats, bought from
iiiiauners in tne Chihuahua orison.
towels or colored bandanas - Shirts
were missing In many Instances. Two
of the men wore blankets in lieu of
trousers. une had a tower around
his waist. Sandals and shoes not of
army pattern were on - their feet
One of them managed to smile and
sav: 'We are sure glad to get back.'1
interpreter spuisbury.. the .only
white man, had on a white yachting
cap and white trousers , many sizes
wu large. . - . . ' .
From the station the .orison era toot
marcnea aown the main . street to the
disinfecting plant, ' where they were
fumigated. Then thev were in Van
around the corner to the headquarters
wncre tne negroes were wit in a. larva
room under guard and fed by order
of General Gonzales, a Splllsburv was
taken into another room, where he
have his Story in ail interview with
an .Associated t Press renresentnti
The negroes refused to talk, saying
uicL uiusi iirsi, report to tneir su
perior officers. .
Spillsbury was ' asked who. in his
opinion, was responsible for the Car
rizal .tight. ' - - . .- ; . - ' ..(
"I am hardly prepared to -answer
tnat question," he said. ; Tf Captain
Boyd had orders to go through Car
rizal to Villa Ahumada." he demnn;
strated that he was a very brave man
and that he would make every 'effort
to carry out his orders.. If he - did
not have orders to go through to Vil
la Ahumada, he behaved very foolish
!V." '- . ....;;,A "
Three hours iater, when Splllsburv
had crossed to the American side, of
the international -bridge, fee was ask
ed: ''."' " ..- r" '.-"
"Do yoii know the contents" of the
statement General Trevino issued re
garding your claim that the Carrizal
fight resulted from Captain : Boyd's
action"'
"I do." he answered.
; "Lo you still stick to that state
ment "
"I centalnly do." , ' . - ' '.
'ere you coerced Into making it?"
"I was not.
"You will, not cfaunss-yoor story now
that you are safe on lA merles .a soiiy
"Nc'I-centainiy wj'J cot. But, I re
Alexander told the story of an hour ??Q. es OI ,nt,. American; soldiera and
and a half in which he lay in a gully "Yi"28 fwna alea m Alfxico as a re--
in the center of the Carrizal batUe- K " "","'us t'"!U "
flci? ,atWhinir . r,r.r.t(ti 1 battle since the entry ; of American
ipick off Mexican soldiers - as., they Pve expeoition nave Deen brought
showed themselves -from, .behind- a r""re" ujr f 'J'8 sent into mexico Dy
screen' of shrubberv 1 - the war department.- The bodies were
V "I don't; know just how' I got into 1 f phalmed and will be shipped to rela-
fhat rfitfV. - ha.: alA 'r.t T r i I UVeS. , . . - -
there all right and then when I looked I T1?e names of the dead are: Sergeant
around I - knew my best het was to e,en;,a?1.;T1 -'aaGhee, 1 hirteenth cav
stay there,' because if I tried to gat P' killed during the Parral attack;
out they .would-shoot me sure as 1 1 J:F"yu? c .jasiey, moifr trucx anver,
ran. But it got mighty tiresome there
without doing anything, so I just took
hold or my. carbine and began pickin
those boys off whenever they showed
themselves. - 1. think I got five before
killed i by Mexican civilians near El
alie -early this month; Private Wil
liam H.- Hayes, Eleventh cavalry;
Charles H. Smith, Company H, engi
neers; Corporal H. Marksbury, machine
thev found out . where th Khnntinir I gun troop. Seventeenth infantry: Cor-
was coming from and came over and Poral Charles Smith, Troop A, Tenth
got me. They came at me about for- cavalry; Private . Edward Merrill, Fifth
ty of them, shooting all the time, but cavalry, andWilliam Kelly. Company
M,. Twenty-fourth infantryi
WAR DEPARTMENT" ASKS
$15,000,000 FOR AIRCRAFT
Submits Estimates to . Congress Ask
ing or Immediate Action. '? ;-
'- ; . .. " ' '
Washington, June 29. The War de
partment submitted supplemental es
timates to congress today calling for
an aODrooriation of SIS.OOO-Onn fnr
tempted to Dino tne wounds I tnelr 1 armv -and nationa.1 euaril air aorrln.
officer.' Finally, Tiowever, they 'saw a I It asked 'that the
none of them hit me.'
- Desperate "Stand Made by Moray.
, Fred Williams told of the desperate
stand made1 by Captain Morey and a
handful of his men in a little adobe
house to the right of the battlefield.
to which .they were forced to retreat.
-' He said there were but a half dozen
men in the house and excepting Cap
tain Morey, who was wounded, all. kept
up desultory lighting from the win
dows. Between shots the merLj,t
INFANTRYMAN CHARGED
,... WITH KILLING POLICEMAN.
Arthur Brown, a Negro, Under Arrest
at Camp Dunne, Illinois.
5 Springfield, PU June 29. Arthur
Brown a ntero infantryman ' of the
Eightti regimert, Vf&s arrested at Camp
Dunne today by military authorities
in connection with the killing early this
morning, or Patrolman Frank J.
Crowley, a Springfield policeman.
Brown is said to have confessed to
Colonel Denison, commander of the
Eighth regiment. . . -CASE
OF HANS TAUSCHER :
GOES TO JURY TODAY.
Charged With Complicity to Destroy
i ' riZ. i ...Welland .Canal. -
New Tork. June 29. The case of
Hans Tauscher, former German army
officer, who has been on trial in the
federal court here for several days un
der an indictment cfiarging him with
complicity in a plot to destroy the
W elland canal in September, 1914, will
go to the jury tomorrow. -Counsel for
both sides summed up - today after
Taucsher, testifying as the final wit
ness for the defense, while admitting
that he arranged for the purchase and
delivery of dyhamite, denied - that he
knew that the explosive was to be used
to blow up the Welland canal., .
HERBERT KNOX SMITH
TO STUMP FOR HUGHES
Customs officials at .Brownsville,
Tex., fixed at J 2 the limit of value of
foodstuffs Mexicans may take Into
.Mexico.
St.' Louis was selected by . the Asso
ciated Advertising clubs as the city
where they will bold their 1917 con
vention.
Bringincr 47 "American refugees from
i-agun and. Frontero-, Tabasco, the. Nor
wegian steamer Harald arrived at New
Orleans. . . . .
large force .'Of Mexicans approaching
the house. -Captain Morey then order
ed them to leave it, to scatter and
make every attempt to escape. Wil
liams said - he and Felix Page and
James Stokes left the others at the
door and made their way through the
mesquite for about a mile and a half.
when they were surrounded' by a large
detachment of (Mexican troops ' and
forced to surrender. . .
George M; Chaplin, Troop , C, of
Morristown, Pa., got nearly to Juarez
before being captured. He was with
the band that followed Lieutenant
Adair into the town in the teeth of :i
fire from doorways and roofs. Forced
to retreat, he stumbledt into the irri
gation ditch where the lieutenant was
klilled With Connoral Bitrstaff anrl
Private fSmith he then took refuge in Narragansett and Manhattan to Be
mediately available m order- that
equipping . National Guard units with
air craft may begin without delay.
The estimates show an increase of
tl 2,000,000 over senate figures previ
ously .fixed, and $14,000,000 over the
House Military Committee's plan. The
increase is due to a signal corps plan
to outfit at once -. twelve - National
Guard . aeroplane squadrons, - one . to
each tactical division. Each squad
ron would have thirty-six scouting
and battle air craft in addition to its
mortor truck and motor cycle equip
ment. .'"- ...
Considers He Meets All Requirements
" '.i -of -at Progressive.-
Hartford, Conn, June 29. Herbert
Knox Smith, one of the leaders in the
progressive movement four years ago,
issued a statement toda ysaying he
would support (Tharles E. Hughes for
the presidency .and would go on the
stump for liim, if called upon. He
considers, that Mr. Hughes meets all
the necessary requirements as a pro
gressive candidate. . Of Colonel Rooee
velt's action in supporting Mr. Hughes,
Mr. bmith says it was one of the great.
est acts of a great life.
Mr. Smith was commissioner of cor
porations under President Roosevelt's
administration and was the progres
sive nominee for governor in 1912.
A cluh to keep Pennsylvania militi
at the front supplied with tobacco s
being organized lj Pennsylvania, suf
iragettes. - . -
Governor McCall of Massachusetts.
appointed Frank . L. Randall of Cam
bridge as cnairman pf the new state
bureau of prisons. -
An additional bonus of 25 cents a dav
to all employes .of the Calumet and
Hecla Mining company and its subsi
diaries was announced. ,. ..
i the Austro-Italian Theatro -ths
Italians in the Trentino Reaion Are"
Still Driving Austria ni Back., -
In an attack over a front of 25 miles. : '
extending eastward from Kolomea, m i
Galicla, the Austrians have been com- i
pelied to retire on a part ot the front i
in the region of Kolomea and south- .
ward. The Austrians valiantly at-
tempted to hold back- the onconfing ,
Russians but, according' to Vienna, .
Emperor Francis Joseph's -warriors fi
nally were compelled to give way be-'
fore superior forces. .
Austrians Suffer Heavy Casualties. :-'
In the fighting and also in battles .
near Kuty, in Bukowina, the Austrians
suffered heavy casualties. In addition ,
221 officers and 10,28a men were made ; ,
prisoners and heavy guns, machine 1
guns and stores were lost. The Rus- '
sian successes in this region seeming
ly gives them almost free access to '
Carpathian passes and to the railway 1
line running northwest from Kolomea
to Lemberg, the capital of Galicla,
German Infantry Attacks.
On the central part of the Russian !
front, in Volhynia, the violent battles ;
around J-.inewka and in the region or 1
Sokul continue unabated. Farther !
north the ' Germans have followed ;
heavy bombardments of various post-
tions with infantry attacks, which Pe-
trograd says were all repulsed.
French Hold Their Positions.
The Germans again have made an ,
effort to win French positions west of
Hall 304, northwest of Verdun, after a ,
bombardment extenijing from the hill ,
to the Avocourt woods. The curtain
of fire of the French and the fire of
their artillery and infantry put down
the attack, however.
-British Artillery Active.
The British along their part of the
front in France and Belgium are keep
ing-up- their heavy bombardment of
German trenches and sending out
raiding parties who are reported to
be doing effective work, inflicting
more or less serious casualties on the
Germans and bringing back prisoners. ,
The guns of the British have done .
much damage to German trenches at:
many points, according to London.
Italians Forging Ahead.
In the Anstro-Itai'ip.n -.theatre, the
Italians - in ' the Treniino region are '
stiil driving back the Austrians and ,
recapturing important positions taken
from them In the recent Austrian of
fensive. The Italians also have opened
a big offensive against the Austrians
on the eastern - front, around Monte
San MIchele, San Martino and Ver- ,
magleo. Here, however, according to
Vienna, the Italians are being - partly .
repulsed by Austrian counter-attacks. i
Official announcement was mada in
London that 116 soldiers, sailors and
policemen and 224 civilians were killed
in the Dublin outbreak.
WAR NEWS SENT . ,'-,-'.
; , V FROM MEXICO CITY. :
Various Exiles of Note Offer Services j
' ' ' I to Constitutional Government.
"Constitution, U. 8. A. Not a Hv- ' - ,
nhen in It" is the wording of the flrsrt I . "..f. i-m., imi a rrv,o xvr-skn
Wilson campaign button handed out ambassador. alT Washington, Eliseo- Ar-
uy aimager . mixormicit. . . - . I redondo. has informed his government
i I that various- exiles of node, including
With one section com Dosed entirely I vi.iviial tiin Tjimhardn. ex-minister to
of Japanese and another of Mormons, I France; Jose Mario Maytorena, ex-
tne itn 1 Aiounted Klnes of Medicine I governor of Sonora ; Francisco Escu-
Hat, Alberta, were inspected. . I flero. former minister of foreign rela-
" :,. ' ; ' tions in Carranza's cabinet; Enrique i
A call to licensed aviators to volun- Llorente, former Mexican consul at El i
teer for service with the army in an- Paso; Manuel Garza and Luis Guz- ;
ticipatlon, of a federal call was sent mann nfter rt.eii. ae-rvlc to the eon-
out by the Aero club of Illinois. stltutional government in case of for-
'', - . T , t eign intervention. The government -
Fifty carloads of equipment for na- has accepted their offer.
tional guards in the central division General Carranza - has received nu- '
states were shipped from tlhe govern- merous messages from persons promi- '
ment arsenal at Rock Island, I1L nent In military and civil life declar- :
... , " , ' TT- , ing their adhesion to the government ;
vMiss Cleveland, daughter of the late in the event of the outbreak of war.
President Cleveland, arrived in London General Carranza's private secretary
to act as a voluntary worker In St. today handed to the press represents,-
Dunsrtan's home for bllnd soldiers. . tives copies of the alleged declaration
, , Z. , made in Chihuahua by Lem Spinsbury, '
German kultur" was discussed In the Mormon scout, who acted as inter- ;
all its phases at the annual convention preter and was captured along with fc
of the National German-American the American soldiers at Carrizal. Ac- i
Teachers association at Milwaukee. ' cording to this declaration. Captain
. A . ' - ... "- '' - .- , Boyd, in command of tlie troopers, was ;
A maritime conference of the allies responsible for the engagement because ,
m uc .mm m jrana in jjecemoer to he refused to give heed to General
csiwusu i ultra govcinuig ine operation i Fenx Gomez.
i mo uiertEaBi marine or tne various
nations. .. , . , . ,
GOVERNMENT PURCHASES -;
GRAND TRUNK STEAMERS.
the brush. -What became of his two
companions he does not know, but a
Mexican who followed him for nearlv
two, hours-he killed with a. pistoL At
the station just below Villa Ahumuda
he secreted himself on a freight, train,
but- was discovered - by a brakeman
near Guzman and delivered to the Cas
ranza authorities.
Five Hid In Little Oaais.
John Coleman escaped Into the des
ert, where, after wandering through
out the night, he found four other
troopers in the morning. The rive hid
Used as Transports.
New London. Conn..' June 29 The
United States government purchased
the steamers Narragansett and Man
hattan from the Grand Trunk railroad
this afternoon i The purchase price,
it is understood, was $1,000,000 each,
and the steamers, which have been tied
up in this city for - several months,
will be used as transports by the gov
ernment. The United States Steam
ship company, in which Charles W.
SEIZURE OF AMERICAN .
PROPERTY IN MEXICO
Morse is interested, offered $750,000 for
in a little naais. he Raid, throughout I each, the building price,
that dav and in the night In attempt-I The (Narragansett has a gross ton
ing to make their way back to Gen- ?age of 3,539 and a net tonnage of
eral Pershing's lines, - wandered into
Villa Ahumada. where they were seiz
ed by . the Carranza forces and later
sent to join the 17 original captives.
MEXICAN PAPERS SAY
i AMERICANS ARE EVACUATING.
2,134; length 820.2, breadth 48.1. depth
22, horse power 4,000, and a crew of
125 men. The boat was built for pas
senger service. The 'Manhattan is
similarly constructed.
Declare " That General - Trevino Will
: .v Keep Them Off Mexican Soil.
Mexico City. June. 29. The afternoon
newspapers- today published under
large headlines stories to the effect
that the evacuation of Mexican terri
tory by American troops already had
commenced, saying that these forces
will soon reach the . frontier, is tier e
they will be compelled to . remain , by
the army-of General Trevino, who will
refuse to allow them to reoccupy the
territory rehrvjiilslied.' v
STEEL BARGES IN OHIO -'-.
AND MISSISSIPPI RIVERS
New Line to ' Operate Between Pitts
burgh and New Orleans.
Gallipolis," Ohio, June 29. A new
steel harge line to be operated on the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers, has just
been contracted for by the Carnegie
Steel company of Pittsburgh. , The
contract calls for seventy steel barges
with a capacity of 900 tons each and
a line of steel steamboats. The r-.ew
line of boats will operate between
Pi:.tsbi3rs'a ar.i-NW . Orlr-B.,?.8. , r
Gold and Silver Bullion, Horses, Cat-
'.-.;' tie. and Autos Taken, s
Washington,. June 29. Representa
tions to General Carranza protesting
against seizure of American property
byvjocal authorities in many parts of
Mexico have been made at Mexico
City by Special Agent Rodgers. Offi
cial reports to the state department
have said that thousands of dollars
worth of gold and silver bullion,
horses, cattle, automobiles and other
movable merchandise belonging to
Americans had been taken. ......
MEDIATION ONLY WHEN
THIS COUNTRY WISHES IT.
Chilean Consul General at New York
-- . " ., so States. -' - r-'. '
; New York.-June. 29. Carlos Castro
Ruiz, Chilean consul general at New
York and former assistant secretary of
state for Chile, said todav the South
and Central America republics had
offered their good offices for mediation,
to be use donly when this country on
Its own initiative wished it.
.: OBITUARY. : ! :
Authorities at Harrisburq. Pa- are
searching for Elmer Beavens, who fired
eigut bullets into the body of his
sweetheart. Miss Violet Maugans. The
girl is dying. . . -.
RESTORATION OF. NANKING
PROVISIONAL CONSTITUTION
by
Proclaimed in a Mandate Issued
, . : President Li Yuan Hung.
Peking June 30. President 14 Yuan 1
Hune. In a mandate issued today, pro- I-
clalms the restoration of the Nanking
A uniform increase of 25 1-2 cents
a day has been granted to all conduc-
tvr-a Tnfllnnnon avtrl w. Aoaav. trftwa
ployed by the Springfield, Mass, Street Provlsfonal constitution, t? '
Kallway company. i oemiiiraeu uy ii. " ;
1 Prof. Kenneth C. M. Sills, dean of Yuan Shi Kal in 1913 reconvened Aug. .
Bowdoin college.' will be a candidate 1- The mandate appoints man -ni jui
ftvr the demonratii finmlngtlAn I Premier.
TTnit fiioto. h.. .. -Tne nresiaent ui.iiii Bamum -
I clares that the lack of a permanent
I, ' ': ' I constitution has been responsible fori
The" Second Maine Infantry ol the China's troubles and orders the parlia- I
.Tj , , , j , , , . I mart t malrA a nermnnenfc v, nT ! T 11 1 1 nn t
mauunui uuara wixn xiuu oincers ana I r- ;
men. "left Augusta last night for the I wnuoui ucijr. . - j
mobilization camp, at Laredo, Texas.
xney were given a rousing send-os. I men cp TENTH "
Waving an American flag, Col. LeRoy CAVALRY STILL. "MISSING
B. Pease, 74, commander . of Warren I
pcet, G. A. K, of Brooklyn, dropped Of This Number uenerai xrevino-rte-
dead while marching in a parade pre
liminary to the opening of the state
encampment.
ported Twelve Killed,
AMERICAN UNION
, AGAINST M1LrTA1SM
Major R. W. Millsaps.
Jackson, MIh?, June 29. Major TL
XV. Millsaps, founder ct Millsaps col
lege here, philanthrophet and
rpputefl one of the veaithiest citizens
of thl sstate, c. --1 her? last nifrht,
ags fJ years. Major Millsaps serv
ed in t'na Confeders.iie army during ths
evil war. For several years he was
bead of the Mississippi branch of the
Amerio&a .R.l Cross. '---
Ban Antonio. Texas, June : 89. Re- i
vised reports at department beadquar- ;
ters Indicate tnat nrteen men ana om. ).
cers of Troops O and K are missing, i
Of this number uenerai 'rrevmo re- t
ported twelve killed. The records
Is to Hold a Conforenoe In Washington ow that 47 men and one offices have
Monday, -. j returned td te American lines,1 The
- - I total list when, the expedition was
'Aftnianemms, 2T M. Jtm S3. Ths I otorfofl a R7. inclndinar a. Mexican i
conference unfier the awsp!e of the j and a Mormon serving as guides. The j
American Union Against Cvnutarisra, return to the border of 24 prisoners 1
which was to nave ben held here, and leaves 15 missing,
wnscn it is nopes wiii aid Jn.averting
war with Mrxico, wiil be held In
Washington Monday, it was announced i
today by Ir. David fctarr Jordan,
OBITUARY,
Linn Boyd Porte?,
Movement of Cteamentpe. " J Boston. June 89,-efinn Efrl f or-j
New Yorlv, June 29. Balled, etsroera tep, ' newspaper man and aut.j'jr, tiled'
Adriatic. Liverpool: Uscar II. Cfcrts-1 today, fasveral years asro, pneter xne:
tiansand. - j nom da ptuma of-AlLiert SifsKS.'' V. !
New York, June 2 9, -Arrived! I wrote the "Albatross" novt.;s. He was i
