WAR JOTTAf ffPfftf
'---. wrsrttKR 4. 2
YVEATHER FORECAST for Kansas:
Generally fair and continued
warm tonight and Saturday.
HOME EDITION
TOPEKA, KANSAS, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 30, 1916 TWELVE PAGES
TWO CENTS
MEXICO
DEFIANT
IS LATE
REPORT
Developments at Mexican Cap
ital Adverse to Peace.
War Faction in Carranza Cabi
net Dictates Policy.
DECLARES BREAK WITH U. S.
Keply Will Renew Demand for
Withdrawal of Troops.
Lausinsr Tells Mexican Ambas
sador to Speed Up Note.
Washington. June 30. Private ad
vices reaching Washington from i
reliable souce in Mexico City today,
said General Carranza and his ad-isers
had determined to stand by orders to
General Trevino to attack American
troops In Mexico moving In any direc
tion except toward the border, and
that no way was seen to avoid a break
with the United States. A faction of
the Mexican cabinet, it was said, was
urging an even more defiant attitude
and wanted to include in the reply to
the American request for a statement
of intentions a new demand for im
mediate withdrawal of all United
States troops now - on Mexican
oil. The advices did not in
dicate when the response from ' Car
ranza might be expected.. The last
word on the subject to the state de
partment came In' a message from
Special Agent Rodgers, who said he
expected the note to be handed him
Wednesday night.
When President Wilson met his cab
inet today just before leaving for New
York to deliver an address, the unfa
vorable private reports had not
reached him and there were practical
ly no new developments in the Mexi
can crisis to be considered.
Vn Move Until Note Is Received.
Military preparation it re ieiig
rushed to completion, however, but
diplomatically there is nothing to be
done until Carranza's reply is received
or it becomes apparent that he will
not respond within a reasonable time.
BlUeo Arredondo, tne Mexican am
bassador designate, called on Mr.
"Lansing early in the day to communi
cate formally the information that his
government had ordered the release
of the American troops captured at
Carrizal.
A brief talk followed during which
Mr. Lansing took occasion to make it
plain that the Washington govern
ment expected an early raply to Its
note forwarded to . Mexico City last
Sunday. The ambassador was im
pressed with the fact that the state de
partment was growing impatient at
the delay. All members of the cabinet
agreed after the meeting that both
the situation and the policy of the
United States were unchanged as a re
sult of recent developments.
The release of the captured troop
ers has delayed military action but
has not relieved the critical diplo
matic situation now existing. Several
reports from special Agent Rodgers
referring to routine matters did not
mention the Mexican note. He had
no light to shed on the probable course
Carranza would take.
Mexicans Have Complaint.
Mr. Arredondo also took up with
Secretary Lansing again the question
of alleged maltreatment of Mexicans
on the American side of the border
and asked that steps be taken to pre
vent further trouble of this sort. On
returning to the embassy he made
public a message from Mexico City,
saying that although the state depart
ment had telegraphed Special Agent
Uodgers to warn all Americans to
leave Mexico at once or the United
States government would not be re
sponsible for the consequences, act
ually less than 300 had left Mexico
City and not more than 200 left the
surrounding country.
"The greater majority of Americans
in Mexico City." said the dispatch,
"have elected to remain, as they have
been in Mexico throughout all the
trouble in the last five years, and no
one of them who has not gone out of
his way to invite trouble, has even
been molested. The Mexican govern
ment has given positive guarantees for
the protection of the lives and prop
erty of Americans in the state of Ta
basco and Guanajuato, whenever such
Americans express a desire to remain,
and unquestionably it will do so in all
other portions of the republic."
Americans Safe in Mexico City.
In conclusion the message said:
"Hince the beginning of internation
al difficulties no disposition has ever
ben exhibited here at any time, to mo
lest any American on account of his
nationality, although those who have
sought trouble usually have been ac
commodated." Official reports to the state depart
ment have shown that only a few hun
dred Americans are left in all Mexico.
CONVICTS CAN NOT JOIN
inmates of Hutchiiixon Reformatory
Won't Be Paroled for Army.
Hutchinson. Kan.. June 30. The
pi-roling of inmates of the state refro
matory was stopped by the discovery
tht the Cnited States army regula
tions forbid the enlistment of persons
who have been Imprisoned in a refor
matory". jajijU or penitentiary.
Should any paroled or pardoned
.onvicts make application they would
.lot be enliste.l and recruits are re
';i,ied to swear that they have not
,-nnvicted or imprisoned.
PEACE STOCK UP
AS MEXICO NOTE
READrifO SEND
General Belief Reply W ill Be
Pacificatory.
Mexico City Sees Signs of Side
stepping War.
MANY AMERICANS REMAIN
Mexican Capital Hears Nothing
of Prisoners' Release.
TJ. S. Agent Investigating
rest of Alleged Spies.
Ar-
Mexico City, June 30. The foreign
office has practically completed the
reply to the last American note. It
may be given out within a few hours.
The general belief is that the reply
will be pacificatory and will relieve
the possibility of war between Mexico
and tne United States.
The majority of well informed per
sons in the capital believe that there
will be no hostilities. They base their
belief not only on their knowledge of
developments here, but on the atti
tude of Wall street and London finan
cial interests likely to be affected by
war. Belief in a peaceable outcome
is strengthened by General Trevino's
report that the American troops
have evacuated Namiquipa, which
had been their base, and other points
in Mexico, retiring northward.
Willing to 1 let urn Bodies.
The places were Immediately occu
pied by constitutionalists troops. As
further evidence of the desire on the
part of Mexican officials for friend
ly relations, it was pointed out ihat
the American application for tne de
livery of the bodies of soldiers killed
at Carrizal met with an immediate
friendly response. General Trevino,
under direct orders from General Car
ranza, notified General Bell at El
Paso that no obstacle would be offer
ed by Mexican authorities to the re
turn of tne bodies.
So strong is the feeling of confi
dence in a peaceful settlement that
only a few Americans were disturbed
by a message sent by Secretary Lan
sing, weanesday nlgnt, warning all
Americana out ot Mexico at once, un
der penalty of assuming grave respon
sibilities. Most of those remaining in
the capital feel assured of protection
and refuse to abandon their business
and property. The Pachuca mines
have all resumed operations. Many
foreigners among the employes who
fled to Vera Cruz during the first e'ays
of the crisis, have been instructed to
return. Mexico City is Absolutely
quiet.
Keep Prisoners' Release Quiet.
Thus far the public has not been
informed what decision was reached
by Carranza government regarding
President Wilson's demands for the
release of the Americans captured at
j Carrizal. Soecial Agent Rodgers said
that he has not heard irom wasning- i uoviousiy anumng to Mexico in his
ton since Wednesday. j speech before the Associated Advertis-
He said he knew, however, that the : ing Clubs of the World, in the shadow
communication regarding the release i of Independence hall, he said:
was answered by the Mexican govern- j "I believe that at whatever .ost
ment through a message sent to Min- j America should be just to other peo
ister Arredondo at Washington, but j pies."
that he did not know the contents of ! "That r am ready to fight for at
the message. i any cost to myself, he added, with
Rodgers is attempting to obtain in- j grim emphasis,
formation about seven Americans, ar- Just before this significant utter
rested and brought here as spies. Two I ance he had said with equal delibera
of the men. named Fitzgerald andjtion:
Ford ix, were taken off one train I "I am not interested and I beg that
arriving here. The five others, whose i you will believe me when I sav that I
names are not known, were taken off ! never have been interested in fighting
another train. Rodgers was informed. ! for myself, but T am immensely inter-
. . , , . . r ... . ested in fighting for the things that I
An Egyptian nobleniHn's tomb, built 4..00 1 - n D ..
years ago. and preserved in its entirerv. tins opl'ef . anl so far as they are con
been placed on exhibition In the Metn.iioli- i cerned, I am a challenger to all com
tau Museum of Art iu New Tt'ork city. - era.
WAITING FOR
i axaWR-ir -:tt&mK.Bs& - : m iiunrn nmorn inn en
CAN'T GET BODIESllAKING LARGEST
American Scout Says Carrizal j
Slain Were Cremated.
Ashes and Bones Believed Ly
ing on the Battlefield.
VILLA WITH CARRANZA ARMY
3Iexican Who Knows Bandit
Leader Makes Report.
U.
S. Ready to Seize Railroad
if War Starts.
El Paso, June 30. According to
Lem Spillsbury, American civilian
scout and interpreter in the Carrizal
fight, the bodies of the slain American
soldiers were afterward cremated on
the field of battle by the Carranza
troops. If Spillsbury's belief is true,
it will be impossible to recover the
bodies and inter them in Arlington
cemetery at Washington as suggested.
Their ashes and bones may be found
on the battlefield, however.
Villa With Carranza Troops.
Kagle Pass. Tex., June 30. Juan !
Rodriguez, a Mexican resident of
Texas, arriving here this afternoon !
from Torreon, said that Piincho Villa
has joined the Carranza forces at
Montclova with several hunured men. ,
Rodriguez claims to know Villa well '
and says he cannot be mistaken re
garding his identity.
Eight thousand Carranza troops are
distributed between Piedras Negras
and Montclova, according to Rodri
guez. A mass meeting will be held here
Monday night to organize a branch
of the American Red Cross and es
tablish a hospital. A large number
of American railroad men are con
centrated here ready to take over the
Meixcan railway leading south from
Piedras Negras in case war is de
clared. More XI. S. Troops Arrive.
Two additional batteries of field ar
tillery have arrived from Laredo,
completing the regiment here. Na
tional guardsmen from the north are
expected to arrive Sunday night. The
regiment is traveling in three sections
over the Missouri, Kansas & Texas
railroad. It is expected to arrive In
San Antonio about 6 o'clock. Other
militia units passed through here last
night, but owing to the strict censor
ship, their identity could not be de
termined. TO FIGHT FOR JUSTICE
Philadelphia, June SO. President
vuson, saying he was in
Hson, saying he was in a fighting
ood, virtually declared that he
would sacrifice his political future in
defense of what he believes to be jus-
. tice to oth-r nations.
C J R R A IN Z J
OopTrtafbt : IB 18:
APPROPRIATIONS
IN U. S. HISTORY
T-y and Ajmy.r Jffore Than
Double Former Funds,,? ';
Total Nearly Thrice Fund Near-1
J i
est Approaching It.
LARGEST SLICE GOES TO NAVY
Sea Defense Gets $314,387,343;
Army, $2S0,000,000.
Twenty Million for Armor Plant
Pensions 6 Million Less.
Washington, June 30. The biggest
military appropriations in the history
of the nation have already been set
aside, or are aDout to oe set asiae, oy
this session of congress. Congress
men pointed out today that instead of
the quarter of a billion dollars custom
arily appropriated at each session for
military purposes, the present session
will mark up a record of some three
fifths to three-fourths of a billion.
Leading expenditures
as compared
appropriations
with largest previous
are:
Navy $314,387,343:
(in 1898).
Armv $280,000,000;
(in 1906).
Forts $25,101,110;
$149,763,563
$101,974,195
$9,517,141 (in
18Armor plate plants $20,000,000.
Deficiency acts $27,559,348.
Totals $657,066,901 and $261,254,
899. This year's ar. ty bill is not yet com
pleted, but the figures given are those
estimated by committee members
drafting the measure.
In addition there are many minor
bills which have passed . separately.
They probably wil easily total $10,
000,000. The pension act for this year calls
for $158,000.000 $6,000,000 less than
last year.
UST PASS THE TEST
No Officers or Men Who Fail
Physical Examination Can Go.
Springfield, 111., June 30. The
Fighting Seventh regiment oi me mi-
nois national guuru, anu
ficers of the First infantry being made
after a- sleepless night, and without
breakfast, departed for the Mexican
border early today.
rnl K. JVl. Lewis, cniei iimn:iins
0ffice'rW. today issued an order for -
I Ki,i.-ir.o- the Seventh regiment or any
i unjt leaving the mobilization camp
hereafter to take with it the men who
had been disqualified by tne teaeral j oiajerg that they had suffered no ill
armv medical examiners. treatment at the hands of I he troop-
This order cost the Seventh seventy era c- tne de facto Mexican govern
enlisted men and five commissioned ' ment anj that every effort had been
officers. Upon the receipt of the or- i maje to prevent civilian violence by
der it became generally known about : th(, nonnlarion of Villa Ahumacia and
camp for the first time that the First
and Second regiments had taken to the
border all the men rejected by the
medical examiners in the hope that
once these men are at the concen
trated camp waivers must be abtained
for most of them.
Bernhardt Is Coming. . .
New Tort, June 30. Sarah Bern
hardt is to make the visit to America
which illness that followed the ampu
tation of her leg prevented her from
makinsr last season. A cable from her
today said she would start September
1. Mme, Bernhardt ia 72 years old.
i T O G I V E
By John T. McOutotMOil.l
KILLED W0UNDED
Survivors of Carrizal Tell Re
volting Stories of Barbarism.
Tenth Cavalry Soldiers Are
Army Heroes at El Paso.
PRISONERS WfflE ROBBED
,r ' , c, . "
Mexicans Took Several Hun-
dred Dollars From One.
Captain Morey and Wife Meet
as Train Pulls In.
El Paso. Tex. June 30. Only the
return of the horses and weapons be-
lon-jing to the twenty-three, released
American prisoners apparently is ex-
pected hfre today to close the Carrizal
incident. - However, the return of the
negro troopers, their reception by large
crowds and their stories of Carran-
! zista soldiers
j WOunrlecl and
killing the American
robbing the captured
still is the popular topic. j They have packed all their tents
That he passed several wounded and ; and personal belongings. They have
later saw them dead with fresh bullet : telegraphed friends and relatives urg
wounds in their bodies was the state-! ing haste to Pawnee Flats for final
ment of Trooper Archie Jones, sup
ported by William Gibson and Luther
Alexander, who also reported being
robbed of several hundred dollars of I
their army savings and Jewelry. Alex- j
ander wounded in the shoulder, de-
clared he did not receive prompt or t
proper medical attention.
In the transfer of the prisoners on
the Santa Fe street international
bridge to General Bell, the return of
a-iotber Carrizal hero was almost en-
tirely overlooked by El Pasoans
n Affected Meeting
When the Golden State Limited
trom the west pulled into the i'nion
station an officer in soiled khaki, -flighted
his arm in a. sling. .
With tears streaming down her
cheeks and a cry of joy, a little wo- j
man in a dark blue traveling suit;
l uoucu up w kiik: i IJBV tm
uiaucu mjiiib euuica ui curious pasiien- !
gers hesitated as they scurried for '
their trains: Apparently -pale and
weak from hardships the officer pat
ted the little . woman on the back
while she kissed him.
He was Capt. Lewis S. Morey of the
Tenth cavalry. The . little -woman in
blue was his wife who was at first in-
formed by press .dispatches that her
V, ..V... r n.V.oHl,r V, .i H Yinnn Villo1 inH
j later received his message telling of
nis sate return to tne American lines.
They were driven to the Paso Del
Norte hotel before going to San An
tonio. Border Tension Relaxes.
Tension which had gripped the bor
der since the Carrizal encounter re-
1 laxQ perceptibly todav as a result of
! , inm tn American soil of
; the twenty-three cavalrymen and the
i American scout. Stories told by the
, Chihuahua City, where the prisoners
were stoned and jeered, had marked
effect here. In official circles in
Juarez news dispatches that the re
turn of the negro soldiers had averted
the possibility of immediate retalia
tory steps by the United States were
received with obvious satisfaction.
Andreas Garcia. Mexican consul at
El Paso, expressed himself as believ
ing that the first step looking toward
a peaceful solution of the border prob
lem had been taken and that others
would follow shortly.
At the request of Gen. George Bell,
(Coutimied ou rage Two.)
T HE SIGNAL
DELAY IN TROOPS' TO E
10VET0 BORDER?
Railroads' Fault Maybe, or Blus
tering Officers' Error.
No One Willing to Take Blame
Men Are Peeved.
Every, Day One of , Good-Byes
s and Keen Expectation. ,
Second Regiment Has Tents
and Belongings Packed.
BY P. C. POWKIX.
(Staff Correspondent for the
State
Journal.)
National Guard Camp, Pawnee
Flats, Fort Riley, Kan., June SO.
11 ursuay was a aay or gooa-oyes.
i hard work and keen expectation. A l
! similar day faces the troops. Maybe
there will le many more. They are
t beginning to despair of active service
; after two weeks of listening to daily
: announcements of rapid transit to the
j border. And tlje men of the Second
( regiment have done everything but
j leave for Eagle Pass.
farewells. More than 1,500 visitors
are in Junction City. The men have
made arrangements for the care of
the store the wheat and the chil
dren and now they must go through
it all again today.
Disappointment was written on ev-
cry Iace Thursday
night
when the
i news circulated through camp an
oraer suddenly had been issued by
' MaJr s- A- Cheney, chief government
mustering officer that the -equipment
t would not ' be ready for entrainment
to the border today. Just where the
fault lier, could not be ascertained.
"Equipment is not ready," said Ma
jor Cheney. "No, the order didn't
come from Washington. I issued it
myself."
Some say it is the railroad's fault.
Others say the mustering officers dis-
covered
l certain errors must be cor
(Coutiuued on Page Two.)
IT WAS A WARM NIGHT
j
j Jt
j
:
Followed
the Hottest
March 21.
Day Since
Hourly temperature readings fur-
; nished by the weather bureau:
7 o'clock 70
11 o'clock 84
8 o'clock 7 8
9 o'clock 80
10 o'clock 83
12 o'clock 87
1 o'clock 87
2 o'clock 87
Temperatures today averaged 4 de
grees above normal. The mercury
reached 89 degrees nt 1:30 o'clock but
dropped back 2 degrees by 2 o'clock.
The wind is blowing at the rate of fif
teen miles an hour from the southeast.
Crops are making a record growth
in all parts of Kansas this week and
the harvest is progressing rapidly in
many places. The warm weather
promises to continue for a few days
longer with no change from the
(Continued on l'ane fwoj
Another Metropolitan.
.(company of New York Is no way -
connected with the Aetna Fire and feet that representatives of the W ich- lyn, N. T.. were drowned late yester
Marine Insurance company of Dover, j ita Cas company will not attend the dav afternoon while bathing in the
Dela, as some people seemed to think Topeka meeting. Receivers, stock- J
when they read the Harrisburg, Pa., j holders and representatives of credi- j Gasconade river near Jerome. Mo. The
telegram in last night's paper. The ! tors will probably confur with the at- j troop train had stopped to allow the
jyieiroyoiitari xiie nas assets or over
$541,000,000, and a surplus of over
J26.000.000. Their big branch off ice j Topeka, stated that no definite pro
is located in Topeka, at S08 Kansas : grem had been outlined, further than
avenue.
WILL GO
ME TO
S 1 IT rtf HIRn ijroo?f WOUId b stationed from reach-.
VI H if C flCk V'l ft D ,?K ,Mexlcans- to render more dif
OlHtfC Uir linn; llCUlt any atte"-Pt that might be made
Winsrio VII fflllto wreck one of the trains. Infonna-
jt'on secured by the intelligence of-
-,w i t.- i !flcers na indicated that such an at
HlS Plan 18 to Let Mexico Ork tempt might be made. Train wreck
t i a c. ;'nK either by the removal of rails or
Out Own Salvation. t by the use of dynamite are so common
- i to warfare in Mexico, both by the ban.
dit organizations and the government
Says America Must Maintain frees, that the general staff at Wash-
;lngton and the military authorities
Prestige for Peace. I here regarded as almost essential such
, i secrecy of movement.
t few Outbreaks Reported.
WILL NOT WITHDRAW JROOPSlhel'aqrTfha
- , - . .- f " of the troops now moving would be
- - .on tne border by Saturday night and
But Pershing Already Has 3few; that any in the coming week such
, disposition would have been effected
Orders, Is Report. , "s to render available for prompt ac-
I "on the heavily reinforced army along
j the international line. Close study of
Meantime, So Letup in Rushing j rri-"' l"d
Troops to Border.
BT ROBERT .T. BENDER.
Washington, June 30. Danger of
war with Mexico is waning fast, offi
cials believed today, as President Wil
son awaited the reply from General
Carranza to his note threatening
grave consequences if the American
expedition was attacked." (border. A rigid censorship was im-
But despite this belief militiamen J posed at Camp Clark this morning and
continued to pour steadily southward ' in the future it was announced no de
toward the border. The administration tails concerning troop movements.
I " ,. .! ,h. t ma nt time of departure and routes will be
is by no means certain that it may not j maAe by ofricers
have early need for the troops This order followed the receipt of a
A dispatch from Mexico City stating . mssagre to brjfrade headquarters from
that Carranza's reply was about com- ' Washington and caused the with
pleted was read with interest at the : drawal of information that previously
White House. The president hopes to I had been given to newspaper men. It
have the message in his hands, pos
sibly by the time he addresses the New
York Press club tonight.
Mexk-o Shows Pacific Attitude.
The Mexico City dispatches report
ing the belief that the Carranza reply i days ago by Maj. Gen. Thomas Barry,
will avert war buoyed up hopes for a j commander of the central department,
peaceful settlement. The arrival of 'it is presumed these orders have not
the American prisoners in El I'aso ano j been changed. .
the expressed willingness of the Mex- j Two - members of the motorcycle
ican authorities to return the bodies ; squad of F company. Fourth regiment,
of the Carrizal dead were other opti- i were admitted to the field hospital to
mistic factors. Officials waited witn j day as the result of accident last night
interest the detailed stories of th j that resulted in fractured legs for
j American troopers, while refusing all
comment on the story of Lempms
(Continued on Page Two.) "
BACK TO TOPEKA!
lUnUU W IWI l-II II
i Chicago, June 30. Chicago con
Gas Controversy to Return t0:tinued today to be the "change cars"
,,..,,, i or rather -change roads" point In the
the Stat Capital. I movement of federalized national
j guards from the Eastern department,
j U. S. A., to the border. During the
Main Problem. Still Is to Get nient the First Connecticut cavalry
and the Connecticut signal cdrps ar.
More Gas. i rived on the Nickel Plate railroad and
transferred to the Chicago Great
, (Western tracks. - Shortly afterward
Troubles of the Kansas Natural Gas Battalions 1 2 and 3 of the Eighth
. . , , , (Massachusetts infantry came in over
company are to be transferred to To- itne xick(?1 pate an(, ;witcned to ,
peka. John Hunt, assistant attorney , Chicago & Alton railroad. Penneyl
general, returned today from the Imle- j vania troops are due today over the
nendenca conference with the
an-
nouncement that receivers and stock-
holders of the gas ccmpany would
discuss their plans with S. M. Brew- j
ster, attorney general, at a meeting m
Topeka next Monday.
The Topeka conference will be held
to discuus methods of financing the
company in an elfort to secure more
as. Threats of the attorney grenera.1
to bring suit to dissolve the receiver
ship have been held in abeyance
pending the outcome of the meeting.
Xo action looking- to the enforced
I sale of the (?as company prowrty was !
taken at the meetine in Indeoendence
sJteroenis todav were to the ef
i torney general. unt, wno orougnt
the announcement t the meeting to
4 to discuss financial affaire .
TROOP TRAINS ,
PROTECTED BY
SECRECY CLOAK
Approaching ' Border Fear
of
Train Wreckers Grows.
Mexicans Are Experienced 1
Use of Dynamite.
CAN'T TELL TRAIN MOVES
Expects All State Troops at
Border by End of Week.
Two of Missouri Motorcycle
Squad Seriously Injured.
San Antonio, June 30. While thou
sands of national guardsmen were
j moving over converging lines today
i towards border stations extraordinary
j precautions were being taken to pre
jvent the exact routing and schedule
of the numerous special trains from
j becoming widely known. General
Funston was instructed by the secre
j tary of war to exercise the utmost
precaution in concealing details of the
J mobilization and as train after train
neared the state of Texas, railway
I operating men grew uncommunicative
I regarding their schedules. General
j managers of all railroads carrying;
' troops had been requested not to make
; public the movements of trains and
; the request was sent by the general
j manager down the line to superin-
tenuenis ana in turn by them to dis
patchers and minor officials.
It was explained at headquarters
that the unusual measure in move
ment of trains was not taken to pre
vent news of juet where the American
I made by staff officers last night and
I today for indications of hostility by
Mexican troops but they contained
i nothing of the kind.
Censor Camp News.
Nevada. June SO. The only infor
mation concerning troop movements
of the Missouri National Guard that
was allowed to become public today
was that the First infantry regiment
J" "i"?.
already had been announced that the
First regiment would entrain today.
The three batteries of field artillery
and the signal corps company are ex
pected to leave tomorrow for Irdo,
the border station, assigned several
('both. The men are J. S. Collins,
Loramoia. mo., prosecuting attorney of
I Boone county, and J. O. Rankin, for
merly ti xarKio, ,no.. out now of
the department of publicity college of
agriculture of the University of Mis-
:soun. eoiumma.
. "Change Cars' at Chicago.
Chicago & Eastern Illinois.
IS Trains Thronti K. C.
Kansas City, Mo., June 30. -"Some"
(fViDtinued on Tape Two.)
tit i-ir rrr t?T r-.Tm
ON WAY TO FRONT
.
TWO GUARDSMEN
DROWN SWIMMING
Springfield, Mo.. June 30. Robert
1 Tlv nd Louis Reitz. privates in Com-
- I anr H' Fourteenth regiment. Brook-
i
soldiers to bathe. The regiment is en
route to El Paso. The bodies had aot
J
been recovered this morning.
