First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Bdosi The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU. MAUI, T. II., JUNE 30, 1916.
NUMBER 19
Big List Of Horses
Insures Fine Sport
Welcome Boy Will Again Race Dencrvo
Horses That Will Contest, Inter
est In Cowboy Sports
Between 2! and 30 horses will take
part in the Fourth of July races at
Kahului, next Tuesday. When the
lists closed last Saturday evening all
ten races on the card had been filled
with from 3 to 5 entries except the
first, and in this Tom Hollingcr's Wel
come Boy is once more going to try
conclusions with Ilenervo. The race
will he the same kind as the various
previous ones between these two
horses mile heats, best 3 in 5. The
purse for this race is $250.00, sweep
stakes $100.00 added.
The week has been a busy one on
the local track. About all the horses
from Honolulu are now there. It. W.
Shingle's Umpqua, Mrs. Walter. Dill
ingham's Oneonta, and Welcome Boy
arriving last Tuesday morning. They
are said to have had a bad shaking
up in the rough trip, but appear to
have come through without, damage.
Race Entries
The following is a list of the races
and entries:
1. Trotting or Pacing. Free-for-all:
1-mile heats; best 3 in 5. Purse $250,
sweepstakes $100 added: Welcome
Boy, Tom Hollinger; Denervo, McPhee
& Locey.
2. Running Race. mile dash; free
for-all. Purse $250 of which $50 goes
to 2nd horse; Umpqua, R. W. Shingle;
Heidelberg, McPhee & Locey; Copra,
J. C. Fitzgerald.
3. Running Race. mile; free-for-all.
Purse $250 of which $50 goes to
2nd horse. Oneonta, Mrs. W. F. Dill
ingham; Ypress, McPhee & Locey;
Frances B., H. A. Baldwin.
4. Running Race. ; Two-year-old
free-for-all; mile. Purse $250 of
which $50 goes to 2nd horse. Bubb
ling Water, Manuel Ah Sue; Dick Til
burn, J. C. Fitzgerald; Will Owen, H.
A. Baldwin.
5. Japanese Race, 'mile dash.
Horses to be owned and ridden by Jap
anese. Purse $125 of which $25 goes
to 2nd horse. Mahinahina Boy, Fugi
moto; Mahinahina Negro Boy, Giho:
Elko, Aceno: Young Lady, Chickamorl
6. Hawaiian Bred. Maiden Pony
race; mile dash. Purse $100. Limit
14-2. Catch weights. Happy Boy. L. von
Tempsky; Panama, Joe Williams;
Bubbling Water, M. Ah Sue.
7. Portuguese Race. mile dash.
Horses to be maiden, owned and rid
den bv Portuguese. Purse $175. of
which $25 goes to 2nd horse. Catch
weights. Lokelani. J. Soares; Pana
ma, Joe Williams; Rainbow, A. J. Fer
nandez. 8. Hawaiian Bred. 14 mile running
race. Purse $250 of which $50 goes to
2nd horse. Edwin. W. A. Clark: Cop
ra, .1 C. Fitzgerald; Young Lady, Chick
amorl 9. Hawaiian Bred. mile running
race. Purse $250 of which $50 goes ao
2nd horse. Mahinahina Boy, Fugimo
to: Frances B., IT. A. Baldwin; Dutch
Parrot, H. A. Baldwin; Wallaby, L.
von Tempsky.
10. Maui Hotel Cup Race. Ffee-for
-all. Mile and running race. Purse
$750. Horse leading at 1st half, wins
$250; Horse leading at 2nd half wins'
$250; Horse finishing first wins $250
and $150 Hotel Cup. Horses not fin
ishing race will not be disqualified.
Harvester, R. W. Shingle; Ypress. Mc
Phee & Locey; Umpqua, R. W. Shing
le; Miss Officious. Inez McPhee; Hei
delberg, Locey & McPhee
Cowboy Sports Events.
A lot of interest, centers in the 5
cowboy events to follow the horse-rnc-ing.
and it is understood that there
will be a large field anxious to try
for the various cups and money prizes
offered. These events are as follows:
1. Tup- of- war by teams. Each
ranch on Maui entitled to enter one
team to consist of 2 horses and 1 mule
limit of weight of each animal to be
900 pounds. Purse $30. Entry $5.
2. Hawaiian Amateur roping con
test. Open to business men only 1st
prize, $150 cup; 2nd prize, $35 cup;
poorest a grab prize. Conditions are
that each contestant must rope his
steer on the run, and lead him to a
forked stump to represent a tree.
Best time wins.
3. Bronco busting contest. Horses
to be furnlBhed by committee and
drawn by lot. Riders not allowed to
pull leather or tie stirrups. Riders are
to mount any horse judges may see fit
to determine winner. Rest average in
riding wins. 1st prize, $60 saddle; 2nd
prize, $20. cash; Man who falls most
gracefully, $5.: Entrance fee, $5.
4. Steer riding contest. With or
without saddle Pulling leather per
mitted. 1st prize, $15; 2nd prize, $5.
Entrance fee, $5
5. Hawaiian novelty steer ropinc
contest. Steer to he roped on run and
led to stump and tied with a pin rope.
Best time wins. First prize. $35. 2nd
prize. $10 3rd prize, $5. Entrance fee
$5.00
If you want to see a good selection
of household articles, including Hawai
ian mats, etc. then do not forget to
call at the baseball grounds on July
3rd and 4th during the progress of the
Carnival. Adv.
Everything' Ready
For TheBig Show
Baseball Grounds Transformed Big
Line Of Wonderful Animals On Hand
Po'ice Asked To Assist
The Big Carnival will open with
a bang next Monday afternoon at 4:00
P. M. at. the baseball grounds in Wai
luku, and will keep up until midnight,
and possibly a little later. A street
parade of horribles, such as has nev
er been seen on Maui will precede
the big event. Th Zoo will be openea
at about 2 o'clock to allow the animals
to roam about Kahului and Wailuku,
but the management of the Carnival
has given the police assurance that
the lion, bears and wild animals will
be kept caged up. Maui has never
seen so many weird animals together
at. any lime.
The gates at the grounds will be
thrown op n at four o'clock. The dec
oration committee, headed by Sheriff
Crowi-11, will leave nothing undone
to show the visitors a symphony in
color arranged to match -the different
booth3. The "House of Fun" is com
plete, aiid a vaudeville extravaganza
has been prepared which will be well
worth the money. This will be a sort
of continuous performance.
There will be bands and music ga
lore, the electric Illuminations will be
grand, and gay costumes will abound.
Some of the best talent on Maui has
been engaged for the Spielers' Union,
and between this, fireworks and the
circus tent, there should not be a dull
moment for the affair.
The dance , pavilion is already in
place. This will be in charge of Miss
Mary Hoffman, and her orchestra will
furnish music well suited to the occas
ion. Ice-cream, coffee and lemonade
booths will be close by. Charles Lake,
chairman of the luau committee, says
he will have something unique, par
ticularly attractive to the stranger
within our gates. It is not generally
known that even in an affair of this
kind, sometimes a pawn-shop is a ne
cessity, so it has been arranged that
the familiar three-ball sign shall be
prominent.
The Hawaiian and Portuguese
booths will be typical of the nations
they represent, while the flower, can
dy and fancy booth will be tastily dec
orated to suit. A zobo band has also
been engaged to furnish some of the
music, in case thhe regular music is
unable to stand the strain. Augustine
Pombo is ring-master of the Circus,
and will lead his band of wild ani
mals through the streets.
When the Carnival closes at about
midnight Monday, it will do so only
temporarily, as the grounds will again
be thrown open on Tuesday, July 4th,
at 6 P. M., when new vaudeville num
bers, etc. will be in order.
The object of the carnival is for
the improvement, of the St. Anthony's
Church, and the committee hopes for
liberal l llronagej. The principal
stores have consented to close duriug
the progress of the carnival, allowing
their employees opportunity to enjoy
the fun as well as others.
No Saloon Closing
For Fourth This Year
The license board at its meeting
yesterday voted down a motion to
have saloons in Wailuku and Kahului
closed between 9 a. m. and 4 p. m. on
the Fourth of July, Case and Lindsay
favoring it, Lufliin and Kaae opposing,
and Chairman Ben Lyons supporting
the negatives. The result will be
that contrary to the usual custom,
liquor will be sold the same on next
Tuesday as on any other day.
Molokai Choir Goes To
Defend Banner In Hilo
Between 80 and 90 delegates to the
big Hawaiian Evangelical conference
in Hilo, left Maui from Lahaina on
Wednesday night by the Mauna Kea.
They were joined at Lahaina by the
delegation of about 40 from Molokai.
The conference exercises began on
Thursday, and will continue most of
next week.
Perhaps the biggest(interest of most
of the delegates from all parts of the
territory centers in the two song con
tests between choirs of the different
Islands. For the past 2 years Molokai
has held the Kate Atherton banner
for putting forward the. best choir,
and If Molokai can win she will claim
the trophy permanently. However,
other choruses have been training
hard, and the results of the contest
can only bo guessed at before it is
over. Oahu is this year represented
by the splendid choir of Kaumakapili
church. The big contest takes place
next Thursday night. This year the
Sunday school association and the
Christian Endeavor societies will
have another contest by their singers,
on Tuesday night. This will be a new
feature of the conference.
Maui Girls Win In
Three Great Games
Fasted Batkit Call Ever Played In
Local G)m. Visitors Royally
Entertained
The big crowd at the Alexander
House CvmnHsium last night, went
Vvf.ld "ttiih excitement land enthus
iasm over the third and final game
with the Palama basket ball team.
When the final basket was thrown
by the locals, making the score 21
to 20 in their favor, pandemonium
broke loose. It. has been a great
week for the Wailuku gymn, and
the winning of three straight and
terrifically fought games will be
long remembered , in the Settlement
annals.
The first game, played on Tues
day evening, resulted in a score of
45 to 15 some of this discrepancy
rtoubtless being ue to thP' fprt.
that the visiting team had had a try
ing time on the Claudine the night
befc'e. The fra,mr on Wednesday
nitrht, however, with its score of
21 to 25, was probably one of the
closest played games ever seen in
tlY Islands. From the start the
nm seesawed back rid frf-th.
and it was anybody's game right up
to the last second. At no time was
the 'Jead more than 4 points .for
either side.
The game played last night, which
wis not renulred was one of much
the same character.
For several years the Honolulu
girls have consistently taken all the
rames that have been played with
the Maul team, and consequently- the
success at this time is especially
grM'fyinT.
Thf1 visitors' team consists of the
following: forwards. Lizzie Ianua,
T,i?zie Akuna; guards, Mary Luhau,
Lillian Biart; centers, Lehue Aluna
hele. Hannah LI Kwai; ; substitute,
Elizabeth Spencer; coaeh Miss Ev
elyn Cunningham.
The Alexander House girls lined
un as follows: forwards.Mary Hoffman
Tweet Robinson; guards, Mary Hart,
Helen A van: centers, Mrs. A. Garcia,
Ella Bal; substitute, Katie Adams.
Both teams have been having a
glorious time with parties, dinners
and auto trips. Following the game
last night a verydelightful dance was
much enjoyed atthe Gymn. Yesterday
the girls were entertained at lunch
by r. C. Lindsay, at his home in Paia,
and in the evening at dinner bv Mr.
and Mrs. Mathews of Yr-;1-.!1 u. To'if
they have enioyc' rv r-rr.r'i par
Waihee. The Tr.oWi 'rl- will
leave bv rav r fr homo
by the Maua I""ti. tonight.
.
Memories Awakened By
Passing Of Old Church
Jm 2"!h wai a rncnorahle day at
the Mahav.-ao Unlo-t Church of Paia
becaU'e H w,3 th hut Sunday dur
ing wh'cU relSglcui services were to
be held prevlrvis to the dismantling
of the ImilMmr.
The ey-rcics were especially mark,
cd by a benu'iful solo by Mrs. Jones,
and an iitc-esling sermon of a semi
historical nature, entitled "The Pas
sing of the Old Church",by Rev. A. C.
Bowdish. ,
The first building of the church was
a small wooden structure at Makawao
on the site now occupied by the cem
etery. The change of location was
made to the present situation for two
reasons, first because of the shifting
of the center of the district's populat
ion and second because the present
position marks the place where the
late Mr. H. P. Baldwin nearly lost his
life.
The present church was dedicated
on Sunday, March 10th, 1889 In the
presence of a congregation of one hun
dred and fifty people; the ceremonies
of the day being in charge of the
pastor. Rev. Thomas Gulick assisted
by Rev. S. E. Bishop, Rev. Wm. Ole
son, and Rev. Mr. Morris.
Some of the better known minis
ters of the church have been, Rev. Mr.
Rouse who was the first pastor in
the first church at Makawao; Rev.
Thomas Gulick who ministered in
both churches and who died of fever
in Africa while on a hunting trip with
the late Samuel T. Alexander; Kev.
Dr. Edward G. Beckwith, Rev. Mr.
Turner, and Rev. A. C. Bowdish who
has been in charge for the past four
years.
During the present week the organ
will be removed to its new location
In the Kahului Union Church. Then
the memorial windows will be careful
ly taken out and the general demolit
ion of the building will follow.
If Is thought that divine worship
will be continued in the Community
House for at least a year before the
completion of the new edifice. ' The
new structure will be of lava stone,
stone and cement.
BORN
AWANA In Wailuku. June 28, 1916,
to Mr. and Mrs. E. N. Awana, a son.
First High School
Class Is Graduated
Pretty Exercises As Five Of Maui's
Young Students Receive Diplomas
AH To Continue Studies
The Commencement exercises of the
first graduating class of the Maul
High School were held on Friday
night. June 23rd at the Paia Commu
nity House, Paia. The exercises be
gan at eight o'clock with the opening
cborus,"A Spring Song" by the mem
bers of the school. The following es
says were given in the order named:
Legends of Hawaii" by Miss Annie
Titcomb Walker; "The Twentieth
Century Newspaper" by Miss Dorothy
Colville Lindsay; "Air Castles", by
Rita Iolani Rosecrans.
The school chorus then rendered
"Hail, The Glorious Dawn" arranged
from Lucia di Lammermoor, and the
"Nursery Rhyme Suite". This was
followed by an oration by Herbert
Sessions Wells on "The Kaiser and
his Ubermensch". The "Class Hist
ory" which was also the prophecy, as
it pretended to be an account written
15 years hence, was read by Miss Ot
ive Douglass Lindsay.
Rev. A. C. Bowdish then gave a
short interacting addrless, ( (after
which the diplomas were presented
by Supervising Principal Wm. McClus,
key. The following received diplomas.
College Coursfe Dorothy Lindsay,
Rita Rosecrans, Annie Walker, Her
bert Wells. General Course Olive
Lindsay.
Mr. Herbert,' Wells then brought
from its hiding place a beautiful sil
ver loving cup which he presented to
the school as a gift from the class.
According to the conditions of the
gift it was to be engraved each year
with the name and class of the pupil
of the Maui High School who obtains
the highest, average in his studies. If
any pupil has an average of at least
one percent higher than any other
the full name was to be engraved,
but if the marks of the high rank pu
pils are so close that only fractions of
one percent separate them, the Init
ials of the two highest are to be en
graved. Principal W. S. Beeman accepted
the gift for the school and later an
nounced the names of the pupils who
had the highest rank in their respect
ive classes, as follows: Seniors. Her
bert Wells. 94.5 percent; Juniors. Con
stnnce Rose 92.2 percent; Sopho
mores. Oishi Crockett. 91.8 percent:
Freshmen, Scott Nicoll. 92.5 percent.
Therefore the initiaIs of Constance
Rose and Scott Nicoll will be the
the first ones to be engraved on the
1916 Scholarship Cup.
After the closing song. "Ere Forth
From These Loved Halls", the grad
uates were presented with armfuls
of flowers by their friends. The hall
was very tastefully decorated in the
class colors red and white. The ush
ers were Craylon Sauers. Jack Walk
er Sanford Walker and Walter Mur
doch. The large audience filled the
hall and the speakers received well
deserved applause.
All the members of the class are
planning to attend higher Institutions
of learning on the Coast next. year.
Mr. Wells goes to Stanford Univers
ity: Miss Rosecrans and Miss Walker
enter the University of California;
Miss Olive Lindsay is going to Dana
Hall, and Miss Dorothy Lindsay to
Wellesley College Wellesley Mass.
Saloon Applications
To Get New Hearing
The board of license commissioners
will grant a re-hearing of the appli
cations of L. Y. Aiona, of Hana, and
A. Garcia, of Wailuku, each for sec
ond class saloon licenses, on Thurs
day, July 13 at 10 o'clock, a. m in
the Wailuku Town Hall. This was
formally decided upon at a meeting
of the board held yesterday morning.
Both Aiona and Garcia had their ap
plications refused at the meeting on
June 19.
The liana saloon man has filed a
petition under oath alleging that he
was unable to be present at the reg
ular hearing, and that some of the
parties who filed protests against him
were originally signers of his petition
for a license. Garcia claims there
were no protests against his propos
ed saloon, and that the failure of his
application was due to a misunder
standing. Notices are to be sent of
the re-hearlng to all of the protestants
against both of these licenses at the
first hearing .
DITCHMAN KILLED BY FALL.
Moriyama Juzo. a Japanese irrigat
ion ditch tender employed by the Haw
aiian Commercial & Sugar Company
at the Ah Fong camp, Puunene, was
almost instantly killed last Saturday
when he fell into the ditch as he was
carrying a barrel. In the fall his
head struck a rock, fracturing the
base of the skull. The dead man was
28years of age, and single.
CARRANZA SURRENDERS
CAPTUREDAVALRYMEN
Tension In Mexican Situation Relieved But Troops Still
Rushing To Border Russians And Itali
ans Pushing Austrian Back Fighting
Still Fierce On Verdun Front
EL PASO, June 30 Every man who went to battle and was taken
prisoner at Carrizal shows effects of ill-treatment. They say Mexicans
murdered American wounded and thru plundered the dead bodies.
While Mormon scouts blame Capt. I'.oyd for the conflict, American
cavalrymen accuse the Greasers.
PHILADELPHIA, Tune 30 President Wilson in fitrhtinP mood
before association of ad clubs. Tells convention of adverlisincr men
that liberty, justice and humanity
to keep resjxrt of nation. . .
LONDON, June 30 Russians clear pathway to Carpathian mts.
Great Slav drive breaks down the resistance of the Austrians and o"
pens up lines to railroad center of Galicia. Fresh thousands of prison
ers captured.
nans, while fighting in the western sectors is desperate.
SAN FRANCISCO, June 30 Nippon Maru sailed from this
port yesterday carrying $1,000,000 in gold for Japanese banks. Mem
bers of the Waseda ball team among passengers.
HONOLULU, June 30 City engineer tells Rotary Club that good
roads will cost dearly in money. Taxes must be increased for pur
pose. He thinks administration is unjustly criticized. Condition of
highways first thing to be noticed here by mainland visitors. Roads
in most parts of island are in bad condition.
J. A. Kennedy, recently returned from the Orient, says Japan is
enjoying unusual period of industrial thrift. Trade in all branches is
in remarkably high state of development. Japan practically controls
transportation business of the Pacific.
Reorganization of coast artillery coqis is ordered. Formation of
supply companies in various arms of service provided for. Cabled in
structions from Washington reach local headquarters. Assignment of
officers to new duties must be reported to adjutant general.
Great Northern Pacific company is issuing a new booklet with
250,000 copies containing legends and other interesting matter about
Hawaii.
Washington takes up case of Foster Davis. Attorney General has
ordered an appeal from the decision of Judge Morrow.
- WASHINGTON, June 29 U. S. soldiers imprisoned by Mexicans,
have been released, but preparations for possible war have not been
slackened by war department. One ossible danger was k'arned today
when U. S. Consul Simbich telegraphed that during an anti-American
demonstration yesterday in Nogalcs, Mexico, just across the street from
same town in Arizona, the consulate was entered and looted.
EL PASO, June 29 Negro troopers, of 10th Cavalry,- together
with W. Stillabury, a scout, were brought to border at Juarez today
and turned over to American military authorities. Some had no clothes
but trousers. Ome had nothing but a shirt and a towel around his
waist. Most had handkerchiefs on heads. All were half-naked.
NEW YORK, June 29 Gen. Leonard Wood announced today that
20,000 national guardsmen of the department of the east, are en route
to the border now, and that -10,000 more are mobilized at various
camps awaiting orders.
SANFRANCISCO, June 29 Majority of national guard of Cal
ifornia and entire guard of Oregon ,are en route to the Mexican border.
Coast-wise steamer Hear is on lire between .dWcks. Blaze started
last night and for a time threatened to be dangerous. Prompt action of
fire department saved ship.
COLUMBUSJune 29 3 motor trucks with New Mexico guards
men today shot across line and went south. They constitute the first state
roops to cross border and carry arms uixrn Mexican soil. They are
sent to help Pershing's troop guard line of communication.
PETROGRAD, June 29 Russians take 11,000 men on Volhynia
front. LUX
PARIS, June 29 Violent bombardment of French .position.
Germans today made heavy infantry attacks northwest of Thiaumont
but were repulsed. . .
BERLIN, June 29 Fighting on west
ish and French attacks repulsed everywhere.
ROME, June 29 Italian advance on
Austrians are pushed back.
LONDON, June 29 Sir Roger Casement has been sentenced to
death for high treason.
HONOLULU, June 29 T. Gather Jones, the soldier who won his
is now accused by the same lady of non-support. Will be sentenced on
July 7. Bride says she has only received $10 since wedding.
Retrenchment is reversed when Supervisors dole out many subs
tantial increases . Original appropriation for band is not reduced. $25
and $15 raises for department heads and deputies.
WASHINGTON, June 29 Carranza will release prisoners. Men
of 10th cavalrywill be turned over. as demanded. De facto government
promises to deliver captives of Carrizal fight with arms and equip
men to United States today. Danger of war lurks in reply to ulti
matum. Concessions made in case of prisoners lessen crisis somewhat.
States continue to send militia for border duty.
SAN FRANCISCO, June 29 Longshoremen are returning to
work. More than 1000 strikers resumx; job under individual agreement.
LONDON, June 29 Slav rushes in Bukowina checked by Teuton
foe. Austrian reinforcements compel Russians to halt in their swift
advance upon southern passes of Carpathian mountains. German
counter attacks gain Volhynia ground.
Fighting on west bank of Meuse heavy and French report success
ful assaults against crown prince lines at Thiaumont.
WASHINGTON, June 29 American rejoinder to Austrian note
explaining sinking of American tank steamer Petrolite, declares attack
by Austrian submarine was an insult to the American Hag.
BERLIN, June 28 Great battle is raging in the Volhynia sector
of the southeastern front.
PARIS, June 28 German attack at Sleury checked. No change
in situation at Thiaumont.
Forbes renamed head of utilities board by Governor Pinkham.
(Continued on Page Three.)
must prevail. He will compel war
front violent today. Brit-
Trentino front continues.
