-& ?yfB
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. H. NO. 249
TEUTONS POUND
RUSSIAN LINES
ON THE DVINA
yon Hindenburg; Opens
Series of Violent
Attacks
AIM TO RELIEVE ALLY
FROM SLAV PRESSURE
Czar's Forces Reported to
Have Captured Base
of Kolomea
KOVEL IS IMPERILED
" ,Pflnnzer's Army About to Be En
tirely Cut Off From
Galicia
"'. ..
V
PETROGRAD, Juno 30. The Germans
have begun a oerles of sudden violent at
tacks against General Kuropatkln's entire
front from Riga through Jncobstndt to
Plvlnsk. This Is tho offensive which tho
Russian Staff expected for some days from
Field Marshall von Hindenburg In an
effort to divert Russian troops from the
Gallclan nnd Volhynlan campaign.
Virtually tho whole of Kuropatkln's front
is under bombardments. German raiding
parties havo been harassing tho Russian
lines for 48 hours.
Interest is divided between the German
operations in thonorth and tho Russian
advanco on Kolomea, In southeastern
, Gallcla. Unofficial reports today placed tho
'Russian lines within less than 10 miles of
kolomea, which is of great strategic Im
portance because of its position as a railway
"centre.
PARIS, Juno SO. Tho newspaper Echo
de Paris declared today that the Russians
have captured the important Gallclan rail
way city of Kolomea.
Petrograd dispatches today reported tho
-Russians within 10 miles of Kolomea.
LONDON, Juno 30. General Lechltsky,
"icommander of BruslloK's centre, began a
Whty onrush yesterday against the Austro
Hungarian (jnes In Gallcla.and northwestern
BuWwlnav between tho Dniester and tho
reg'loh around' iKuty. in, an effort to puBh
bis' opponents 'beyond the Important railway
d(y of Kolomea, strategically tho most val
uable point in southern .Galici'a.
' tetrograd announced last night that
vLechltaky Inflicted a crushing- defeat upon
'the Austro-Huhgarlans, taking three lines
bf .trenches and 10.B06 prisoners. This suc
cess was achieved in tho northern part of
the area of attack, between the Dniester
and tho Pruth. The fall of Kolomea Is
expected if the new advance continues. Its
capture will mean the collapse of the whole
defense, scheme in southern Galacla and seal
Continued on Pate Tarn. Colomn Two
MANY YOUTHS EAGER
TO SERVE COUNTRY AS
RECRUITING IS PUSHED
Healthy Response Shown at Sta
tion Hero to Call for 1200
Men Needed by
N.G.P.
fc P. O. S. OF A. OFFERS AID
There was a healthy response by young
American patriots today when the recruit
ing station at the headquarters of, tho Na
tional Security League, Broad and Chestnut
streets, opened for business. A, long line of
men was waiting when Sergeant T. A. Carr,
who was sent here from Mount' Gretna, be
gan to examine applicants at 11 o'clock. He
will remain hero until 1280 men havo been
obtained to bring every company of the
let Brigade to a maximum oi 100. They
now average. 65 men.
Tho first applicant was Charles "Wesley
Welter, a fireman of truck IB. He Is 35
years old and married, Harry Olenn, of
1689 Vine street, the next applicant, said
he was formerly a member of Company Id
2d Regfment, and asked to be placed In
Company E. V
Up until noon the Indications were that
a good number of recruits would be added
to the forces before nightfall.
Inquiry was made nt'tho station concern
ing Nathan Cohen, 17, years old, of 6631
Spruce street, who has not been seen since
leaving his home yesterday. His parents
beljeve that he will try to enlist.
Under orders Issued by General Price. the
station will remain open today, despite the
fact that most of the commands of the 1st
Brigade will be en route South by nightfall
Philadelphia could raise an able-bodied
army of J6Q.0Q0 men for. defense, and the
Guard officers hope to obtain many more
men before the last commands entrain at
Camp Brumbaugh.
In the population of 1,750,000, City Sta
tUtlctan E. J. Cattell has computed; ZI9.0Q0
are between the ages of 18 and 35, the lat
ter being tha highest age limit set by the
Guard. Captain A. A. King, of the arma
recruiting station, at 1839 Arch street, says
that only one out of every Xour men be
tween J 9 and J 5 can pass the physical
examination
Slve hundred rata are wanted Immedi
ately tot service in tur medical iepartmant
of the. Pennsylvania troop The work ot
teemMng win jmm$ of a limited trato
tsta.ablaBCi ai;t ftrat !4 wort atautto
cimttttg
ymraj
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, JUNJfl 0, 1916.
CorrmaiiT, 1010, nr the rcntio Lwock Courixr,
PHIOJD ONE CENT
FAMOUS ATHLETE AS A GUARDSMAN
liy Kvk.mmi l.KiMiKii atutt I'holoitriiihcr.
This is J. Howard Berry, football, baseball and track star of tho
University of Pennsylvania, in frpnt of his tent at Mount Gretna,
whore he has been in camp as a private in Company C, 1st Infantry.
Medical inspectors there pronounce him a perfect physical specimen.
RICHMARYLANDER
MISSING; FRIENDS
SUSPECT MURDER
William E. Medford, of Cam
bridge, May Have Been
Thrown Into River
STRANGER GIVES ALARM
CAMBRIDGE, Md., June ao. 'William E.
Medford, wealthy lumberman and mem
ber of a widely known Maryland family. Is
missing, and friends fear he was murdered
and his body thrown Into the Black "Water
River.
Mr. Medford left here at i o'clock yes
terday afternoon In his automobile for one
of his lumber mills, 14 miles below Cam'
bridge, nnd has not been seen since.
About midnight last night Fred Andrews,
a farmer living nlong tho Black Water
River, was called out of bed by a stranger,
who Informed him that aman was over
board and about to drown at the edge of
his farm. Andrews aroused hlB hired man
and wont to the spot described by the
Btranger,
Ho found Mcdford's automobile near the
river. Upon investigation ha also dlsj
covered evidences of a desperate struggla
in and around tho automobile and blood
spattered. over the machine. Ho also found
bloody finger prints on the car. 'ndrews
said he believed Medford had been cut to
death and hla body thrown In tho river
as footprints led to the water's edge. The
river Is being dragged today.
STRANGER DISAPPEARS
In tho excitement Andrews missed the
Btranger who had given him the infor
mation nnd efforts to locate him nave neen
futile, Andrews did not get a good de
scription of the man but Bald ho spoko
with a Spanish accent.
When Medford left Cambridge, It Is sup
posed he had a large sum of money In his
possession to bo delivered to the foreman
of one of his mills.
As soon as tho news' of his disappearance
reached Cambridge the fire alarm was
sounded and In a few minutes hundreds of
men, armed with guns, revolvers, rifles and
clubs, wero hurrying to tho river., Tho
news was flashed' all over the peninsula,
and tha entire peninsula police force,' la
watching every train and boat.
p'ROMINENT POLITICIAN,
Medford Is one ot Cambridge's foremost
cltliens and Is a Republican politician. Ha
was elected Clerk of the Orphans' Court
last November, and before-taking that office
was postmaBter at Cambridge for four
years.
Ue Is also engaged extensively In the
lumber business, being a member of the
Honga dumber Compauy. He has a wife
and two children. He is 42 years old and
the son of Robert Me'dford, cashier of tho
Dorcester National Bank, of Cambridge.
ST0NEMEN PLAN
VOLUNTEER ARMY
OF 25,000 MEN
Fellowship Begins State
wide Movement to Prepare
for Military Service
TO. HOLD DRILL TONIGHT
White" House Congratulates
Evening Ledger Dictograph
WASHINGTON, Juno 30 Jo
seph P. Tumulty, secretary to Presi
dent WUson,today expressed praise
of the enterprise shown by the
Evenikq Ledgeb in reporting Presi
dent Wilson's Independence Hall
speech on Thursday afternoon bo
accurately and quickly by the use of
the DICTOGRAPH,
"Th& is the most wonderful thing
that I have Itearo of in journalism,'
,hm and iti tm&am r to be
, tOifJMMU1".
Tho Stonemen's Fellowship has begun n
Statewide movements to prepare its mem
bers for military service In Mexico In the
event of' war with that country.
A huge army of volunteers Is being re
cruited from the Stoncmcn at this time, and
It Is considered probable that the total num
ber will rlso above 25,000 men. They will
be thoroughly drilled. Instructed In military
matters, and In every way possible prepared
to enter tho Government servlco as volun
teers. Tho first active step In the drilling of
tills body will be taken tonight when 250
members of the 21st ward division of the
Stonemen will meet In Roxborough to take
lessons In tho rudiments of military
training.
AMBULANCE UNIT PLANNED
In addition to tho military phaBe ot the
Stonemen's latest activity, an ambulance
unit Is being formed and tho Fellowship
has ofTered to tho War Department 20
ambulances, one repair wagon and a full
corps to man -them.
Just who Is supplying the funds for this
movement has .not been revealed by of
ficials of tho Stonemen, but It la said a
small grqupjf men has furnished the
money. Tho ambulances have not yet been
purchased, but It was said today that the
order was. ready to be placed. It is prob
able that Immediately upon receipt of nn
answer to a message sent to Washington
several days ago, steps will be taken to
order the ambulances.
More than 100 men will bo needed to
operate the machines, as, besldo the driver,
there must be an assistant surgeon In
charge and four assistants. These men
will bo supplied from the ranks ot the
Stonemen. It Is said.
, Within the next week, the preparedness
movement will take on great activity, The
various branches will begin their drilling In
earnest, and an attempt will be made to
teach them the rudiments In the shortest
possible time. Efforts are being made to.
have the War Department detail an army
olllcer t superintend the work.
The drill movement Is Intended as some
thing of a substitute for men who can.
not go to Plattsburg or other military
camps,. It was said today. The threatening
conditions In Mexico have led to tha plan,
and it was stated bygone pt the leaders of
the .Stonemen that should the present
troubles be adjusted the military organiza
tion will probably be disbanded.
The meeting tonight will be held in the
Moyer Memorial CJiurch, Manayunk and
Krams avenue. Jtoxborough. House Ser
geant William Blackburn, of the Manayunk
police station, a former soldier in the United
States army, will act as drillmaster. It U
reported that a wealthy resident , of, tier
mantown will furnish any money needed to
finance the movement In that section. -
It was asserted today, however, that for
'the present the. movement would require
little money, aa it was n$t the intention to
purchase any equipment until it waa learned
whether the men were to be needed in active
service It is hoped that suns to be used
in drilling will b furnished ry the Gov
ernment Oae ot the Stonmaa leaders said that
the ntoyctnent iuw wly eno purpo pa-ttiettak
SOLDIERS STOP
HERE TONIGHT
ON RUN SOUTH
Second Regiment Will Leave
Colebrook Late in
Afternoon
FAREWELLS AT STATION
Train Will Halt at B. and O.
Terminal, 24th and Chest
nut Streets
Other rump nnd guardsmen's neV of
Pennnyltanla nnd New. Jersey en pnge 10,
By FRANKLIN R. G. FOX
Eventno T.tdo'r Staff Corrttvondcnt
IIISADQUARTCnS CAMP BRUM
BAUGH, Mount Gretna, Juno 30. The 2d
Regiment of Infantry, from Philadelphia,
1st Brigade, Is entrained nt Colebrook, near
horc, ready for Immediate departure. Tho
regiment, the crack ono of the brigade, was
scheduled to leave nt 11 n. m. today, but
officials say It will bo i o'clock this after
noon before the long troop train will pull
out on Its wny to Kl Pnso.
Tho train will pass through Philadelphia,
making a short Btop at Baltimore nnd Ohio
station, 24th and Chestnut strcctB, about
four hours after leaving Colebrook. A stop
of half an hour will bo mndo nt Lebanon.
The delay In leaving was duo to the mnt
ter of arranging equipment. The 2d Regi
ment, commanded by Colonel Turner, has
1050 olllcera and men, nnd Is Bald to bo
better llttcd physically to stand tho climate
test than any other regiment In the brigade.
Thousands of soldiers nnd civilians
thronged In and about the Bmall station
here, wishing fond farewell to relatives or
friends nnd comrntles-ln-arms. All ure
watting for tho final order for the train
to move.
SIGNAL CORPS MEN LEAVE.
Tho signal corps and Pittsburgh 2d Field
Hospital Ambulance Corps, numbering
about 700 men, left for tho border nt 11:14
o'clock today. They went from hero via
Pittsburgh nnd from there will go to St.
Louis nnd then southward.
The shifting of the Pennsylvania troops
to the Mexican border began when Company
B, from Philadelphia, and Company A, from
Scrantop, composing:, the Engineer Corps,
left Mount Gretna, shortly before midnight
last night and passed through Philadelphia
at 3:45 this morning.
Orders to leave wero given to the 1st and
3d Regiments of the 1st Brigade, both from
Philadelphia. Every effort Is being made
to get them oft before nightfall. Officers
expressed the opinion that tho whole 1st
Brigade would get away today.
ORDER TO MOVE COMES BY WIRE.
The long-looked-for order from the War
Department to start tho movement of the
troops southward came over the wire In
a message to Captain J. B. Kemper, United
States mustering officer, In camp last night.
Continued on I'ase Two. Column Three
RUSH FOR NEW LOAN;
SUBSCRIPTIONS REACH
THREE TIMES AMOUNT
Two Syndicates of Bankers and
Fifty Other Bidders Offer
to Take the Entire
Lot
TOTAL OF $13,819,700
The city loan was this afternoon oversub
scribed more than three times. Two syndi
cates of bankers and 50 other subscribers
offered to take the entire loan. Tho total
amount bid was 113,819,700.
It was tho first bond-letting under Mayor
Smith's administration of 30-year bonds at
4 per cent., covering part of the two big
loans; 16,000,000 for transit, Broad street
subway and Frankford "L," nnd Ji, 325,000
for general Improvements. These loans
were authorized In May and June, 1915.
Tho blddlneoday was not bo heavy nor
the premiums offered bo large as those of
bond sales In tho Blankenburg administra
tion. Under the former Mayor a loan was
oversubscribed Ave times.
The bids today ranged from 500 to tho
whole amount. The highest bid was that
of Daniel11 IL Kllllan. Jr., who offered to
take 500 aU102, Two syndicates of bank
ers offered to take the entire letting. One
of these was Rellly Brock & Co., Graham
& Co, and E.' W. Clark & Co. Their bid was
$100.03.'
Prexel & Co. and Brown Brothers offered
to take the whole amount at $100,431.
.Other bhjs were;
Robert Cherry. Jr., 100.000 at 101.
Sinking Fund Commissioners, 1,500,000 at
0li- "
Corn Exchange National Bank, 200,000
at 100H and 200,000 at 100,
West End "Trust Company, 305,000 at
101.
Newberger. Henderson & I.oeb, 10,000
at 100.29 f
Stern Co., JOO.tWO at prices ranging
from 100 to 101H
Townsend, Whelen & Co.
75.000.. . . .s at 101 H
S0,QQ0.,tt at 100,
7t),00Q.j., at 100!,
125,000,., at 101
25,000. at 101H
25,000..,,, at 10114
The rest, of tho bids were raada by in.
dlvlduals.'beneficlal associations and other
organizations.1 '
v t
Two Get City Hall Joba
City Ball appointments today include
David J. Matlacfc 4101 Old York road,
draftsman, Department of Transit salary
11590. mm Frank M. Smith, itH Yoi
road, lwfc BuroMi vl Boiler Inspection,
QUICK NEWS
SECOND REGIMENT STARTS FOR BORDER
MOUNT GllETNA, Pn., June 30. At 2:20 o'clock totlny tlio first
section or the Second rcmisylvnnin regiment left for the bonier,
SECRECY IN MOVEMENTS OF TROOPS TO BORDER
WASHINGTON, June 30. The War Department this afternoon
announced thnt "Increments" of the Illinois and Oregon mllltln en
trained today for tho border. Details were refused, Secretary of "War
Baiter announcing that n72 military commanders hnd todny been in
structed not to reveal facts concerning the movement of troops,
RUSSIANS CAPTURE TOWN IN GALICIA
PETROGRAD, Juno 30. Russian troops have captured the town
of Obertyn In their pursuit of the. retreating' Austrinno between the
Scrcth nnd Dniester Rivers.
HAMILTON RACING RESULTS
First race, Prince of Wales, $500, maiden 2-year-olds, foaled in
Canada, 5, furlongs Gnlloy Head, 115, Dickens, $.10, '$2.30 nu;l
!i.-10, wemj Tei-3hora, 107, Warrington, $!i.20 nnd tfS.UO, st'ciAd; Ja
voto, 112, rari-ington, $7, third. Time, 1.01 3-0.
A
KITCHENER ESTATE APPRAISED AT $$57,105 i v,
LONDON, Juno 30. An Inventory of tho estate-of tho late Lord Kitchener was
filed todny. Ha left a, fortune- of $857,105, ' '.''.'
. , - -, ' V
WILSON TO ADDRESS SALESMANSHIP CONGRESS JULY 10
WASHINGTON, Juno 30. President Wilson sent a telegram accepting- an Invita
tion to speak before the salesmanship congress nt Detroit, Mich., July 10. Tho only
thing that would causo him to break the engagement would be a frosli outbreak In
tho Mexican situation.
FIRST DISTRICT REVENUES $17,500,000 FOR YEAR
Collector of Internal Revenue Ephralm Lederer announced today that tho prob
able receipts In the 1st District of Pennsylvania would total $17,500,000, as com
pared with $16,347,199 last year. The fiscal year ends today and all income taxes
not paid by 4 p, m. will be noted among the delinquents. Collector I.ederer said
the principal increase came from tho individual nnd corporation Income taxes and
the emergency revenue tax.
I
14 ITALIAN RESERVE CLASSES CALLED TO COLORS
ROME, Juno 30. A call was issued today by the War Office for the reserves
ot tho classes of 1882 to 1895 to report to tho colors by July 10. This Is taken as
an Indication that tho Boselll ministry Intends to prosecute the war against Austria
with the utmost-vigor.
FOUR VILLISTAS HANGED FOR RAID ON COLUMBUS
DEMING, N. M Juno 30. Four Vllllstns who were in tho Columbus raid March
9 were hanged In the Jail here early todny. The men wero put to death In pairs
on a double scaffold. Tlicy faced death calmly.
RUSSIANS FAIL TO JOIN BRITISH ON TIGRIS, TURKS SAY
CONSTANTINOPLE. June 30. Russian troops that have been trying to effect
a junction with the British in Mesopotamia have been compelled to retreat.wthe
Turkish War Oflice announced today. The fortified positions eas of Sermll have
been abandoned and tho Russians in that district are being pursued by the Turks.
PRESIDENT OFF FOR NEW YORK; McCORMICK IN PARTY
WASHINGTON, Juno 30. President Wilson left Washington this afternoon
for New York,' where he will speak at the Now York Press Club tonight. The presl
dentiul party Included Secretary Tumulty, Vance C. McCormlck, chairman of the
National Democratic Committee; Mrs. Wilson and Dr. Cory T. Grayson. The party
will return to Washington tomorrow. En routo this afternoon, the President and
McCormlck were to discuss plans for campaign addresses. It is understood the
personnel of tho Campaign Committee will be announced as soon as all who have
been asked to serve accept.
CHINA RE-ESTABLISHES NANKING CONSTITUTION
PEKIN, June 30. Tho revolutionists have won out In their light to have re
stored tho Nanking provisional constitution. President LI Yuan Hung's mandate,
issued today, decrees the restoration. Parliament was ordered convened on August
1, The mandate appoints Tuan Chl-Jul Premier.
CARRANZA SEIZES $500,000 WORTH OF AMERICAN GOLD
WASHINGTON, Jun.e 30. Nearly half a million dollars' worth of concentrated
goid'and silver ore owned by Americans has been confiscated by the Carranza Gov
ernment in the Manzanlllo district, official reports to the State Department today
said. "
EARTHQUAKE SHOCKS RECORDED AT WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, June 30. Georgetown University observatory here recorded
severe earthquake shocks last night, which lasted from 10:08 until 11?84 o'clock.
The estimatedullstance from Washington was 3300 miles- The shocks were reported
today as having been among- the most severe of the year,
.LUMBER OUTPUT FOR MAY SHOWS EXCESS
CHICAGO, III., June 30. The monthly compilation of lumbej; 'production
of the United States made, by the National Lumber Manufacturers' Association
for May, 1916, completed today, shows an increase of production over shipments
for both, hard and soft woods. The total out. of both varieties by 631 mills was
M53,70Q,00Q feet- Shipments were 1,151,200.000. This is a total excess of pro
duction of 7 6-10 per cent, soft wood excess was 6 1-10 per cent, and hardwood
excess 27 2-10 per cent.
NO GREA,T CHANGES IN BLOCKADE OF ALLIES
W4SJHNGTQN, June SO. Thers will be no substantial change In the re
strictive measures adopted by the Allied Governments against commerce between
the Centra: Powers and neutral countries, according to Information reaching here
concerning the British Government's notice, through, ord Robert Cecil, of Inten
tion to discontinue partial enforcement of the Declaration of London goyernlisr
maritime trade. All present activities of the. Allied Moekadw whr they have
proved effective wUi b$ coatlnd, hewnver, through th tsau ot mw otitm la
oouncU tuc4 upon municipal Uw.
"GET OUT," U. S.
BLUNTLY TOLD
BY CARRANZA
, 0
Gist ,of Reply Reported
Issued in Mexico
City
TROOPS ARE ACCUSED
OP EXCEEDING TASK
Presence of Soldiers Unlaw
ful, Actions Provoked At
tacks, Is Charge
DENIES AIDING BANDIT3
De Facto Government Refuses to
I Take Any Responsibility
for Situation
WASHINGTON, June 30. "That
docs not represent the view the Mexican
Government will take In replying to tho
latest note of the United States," de
clared Elisco Arrcdondoj Mexican Am-bassador-designnto,
this afternoon after
he had read the statement of the De
partment of Foreign Relations of tho
Mexican Government. .
"I am sure that statement refers en
tirely to the early Amclrcan note," ho
continued. "Alihough I have not been
advised of the statement by my Govern
ment, I am sure that It has nothing to
do wiih the note sent last Sunday by
President Wilson."
MEXICO CITY, Mexico, June 30. Forma!
notice wan served today upon the United
States Government by tho d .facto Govern
ment of Mexico that the presence of Ameri
can troops would not be tolerated any
longer upon the soil of Mexico.
This notification -as contained In a
statement given out. by th,e forergn minister,
which, is taken as qrj nnswer to the recent
note of Present -Wilson. '
The Mexican Government ca'rpe,s - the
United. Sintes with sending a- haughty and
discourteous' communication,' and the? atten
tlon of the United States authorities is
called to the fact that HO Mexicans, havs
been' murdered on the border where no
attempt was ' made to punish the perpe
trators.. It Is declared that tho pursuit of the
bandits under the leadership cf Francisco
Villa was taken up at once after they be
gan their depredations, and that the duty
of stamping out these outlaws rests with
Mexico and not with the United States.
in substance, the Mexican Government
denies the right of American troops to
occupy Mexican territory and decfares that
the presence of United States troops in this
country Is a violation of national rights.
In the statement Carranza says the con
tinued presence of United States troops can
not be tolerated. The clause on this point
Is:
It Is not true that the Constitutional.
1st Government wishes to leave unpun
ished the crimes committed by the
bands of outlaws, nor that It refuses to
capture and destroy or dispense them,
but, at the same time, this Government
cannot tolerate, as It has .repeatedly
stated to the Department of State, con
tinuous presence of American expedition
of troops In Mexican territory, who
have no right to be there.
(Whether or not the "substance" of this
rote Is what will be delivered In Washing
ton Is a question. Carranza in times past
has been acsused ot Issuing statements for
home consumption. The note has not beea
delivered in Washington.)
The statement Is as follows:
"It seems strange that the Department of
State should show surprise and disappoint
ment for the tone and character of the not
of the 22d of May, which It calls discour
teous, when the very same Department of
State has sent to the-Constltutlonallst Gov
ernment not only one but many notes not
only discourteous, but also haughty, to say
the least,
"During the same period to which the
note alludes 110 Mexicans have been mur
dered In United States territory by Amer
ican civilians, and the same Government
authorities have also participated, although
the two countries were at peace, nnd In none
of these cases, although representation have
been made to the Department ot State
through our Minister at Washington, the
guilty have never been brought to Justict
or punished. These acts have been com
mitted by Americans in American territory,
or by Texan-Mexicans against the lives aui
interests of Americans.
DBNIPS ALL ULAMR
"The Govertunent of Mexico cannot bs
held responsible for those acts which have
taken place 1" foreign territory and which
Continue oil Fate Two. Column Blx
Ullll.N ...I 1J- V -"" '.- '"
THEWEATHE
FORECAST
For Philadelphia strf viptnfttfti.
nettled iftw afttoon; probably fair to.
night and Saturday; MQdfrate tempwi
turn; stnth winds, mostly iurtnmt
for details ? inside pagt
SSi
tOST AMU EOUim
INSURANCE POX.MT -! tattric &&&
t . TllVMA, . " 1
I
I
m
il
(
.QttMr lUtct tip i ) -ia-.''
