47TH AT PEEKSKILL; 23D TO TEXAS DIRECT
FMAl
Jf EDITION
atcnUtfan Hook Oprn to Alt." )
I "(Urntlnllnn Ihtoli Open in Alt."
PRICK ONE CEKT,
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JUKE 30, 1910,
18 PAG Eft
PRICE 0.E CENT.
r. I fK' . lark W..MI,
ORDER U. S. ARMY FROM MEXICO,
MINISTERS URGE CARRANZA
NEW YORK TROOPS TO CAMP
nv a on tp iiim
10 1 MB OF HHg 1
Dl AM A TO flACU C Mrxncn I
I LMI1 ttUlU UttOII II I1LLULU
Site Selected Is From Pharr, 65 Miles
West of Brownsville, to Mission
Hot but Well Watered Hun
dreds of Cars Ready if Ordered
Across Line.
By Martin Green.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Evening World.)
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 3o. Considering a state of war
pnctically exists along the Mexican border, the New York troops on
their arrival in this part of Texas will find themselves in what might be
called quarters de luxe. Brig. Gen. James Parker has selected for their
use a amp site in the most salubrious and picturesque section of the
southeastern Wo Grande Valley. i
The New York militia .egiments and auxiliaries will be camped
along a ten-mile front bordering 0:1 a branch railroad running westward
from Harlingen to Sam Hordyje, Tex. Friends and relatives may locate1
the position of the Empire State boys by getting out their little 0IJ1
encyclopedias, turning to the map ot Texas and locating Brownsville, the
southernmost town in the State, dese to the Gulf of Mexico and across
the Rio Grande from the Mexican city of Matamoras.
( It had been the Intention of tho War Department to locato tho Now
Torkers at Drownsvlllc, but there la no camp slto available lu that vicinity
tor such a largo body. Another consideration operating against Urowna
Title a headquarters for tho Now York troops Is tho fact that If catled Into
aetlTO servlco across uio border, as they will bo In case of war, It Is
planned to have them cross tho ltlo Grundo at a point about scvcuty-flvo
miles northwest of Ilrownsvlllo, where tho National Hallway of Mexico
strikes oft to tho southwestward toward Monterey.
PLAN MOTOR DASH IF THERE'S WAR.
It la no violation ot military confidence to eay tho plan of campaign
..'mbraccs tho uso by tho Now York troops of hundreds of automobiles,
thlch will bo ablo to transport wholo regiments across country irrespective
if tho condition of tho railroads. Tho residents of the valley In which tho
taw Yorkers aro to encamp have already pledged alx hundred automobile,
Janflng from a flivver to an eight-passenger, eight-cylinder touring car
(or military use, and the army Is anon to havo in this section wholo flocks
ot automobllo trucks which can bo used for tho transportation of troops If
the occasion arises for quick movement.
To set back to tho site of the Now York camp. Tho map of Texas will
bow about thirty miles a little west of Urownsvlllo tho town of Harlingen,
ft typical frontlor settlement, which was almost totally submerged In mud
when the writer passed through thoro yesterday morning. From Horiingcn
the branch road fools Us way westward and at a station called Pharr,
about thlrty-flvo miles from Harlingen, tho Now Yorkor interested In tho
regiments ot bis own city and Stato should mako a cross with a pencil, for
tils Is to be the easternmost limit of tho camp of tho boys from tho' big
town.
Five miles west of Pharr is tho bustling little city of McAlIon. with
paved streets, electric lights, brick buildings and a per capita automobllo
population of almost ono cp.r per Inhabitant. Flvo miles west of McAUcn ts
Mission, an up to dato town with four parks and a reputation of harboring
the prettiest girls In Texas.
PLENTY OF WATER FOR THE CAMP.
Tho New Yorkers will bo encamped on both sides of the railroad track
Between Pharr and Mission. McAllen Is to bo division headquarters, ac
cording to the plans of Gen. Parker. Major Oen. O'Uyan and hla staff aro
to be located ther"e If tho lay of the land Is satisfactory to tho commander.
The best feature ot the camp site selected for tho Now Yorkers is au ampin
Wliter supply. One of tho richest Irrigated sections in Texas strotches along
the railroad branch westward from Harlingen. The Hlo Orundu Is only
Uve miles from Mlr-alon, eight from McAUcn and ten from Pliurr. Pumping
stations along tho river send an abundant supply of water to points far
beyond the railroad right of way. The ground is high and slopes toward
the river. With money contributed by tho citizens of Mission, McAUcn,
Pbarr and other towns along tho branch, water pipes are being laid to all
parts of tho camp. Klectrlc wires aro being strung by scores of linemen,
'and engineers are plotting out the ground.
When the New Yorkers roach tho points at which they aro to detrain,
their commanders will be furnished with maps which will Indicate tho
points at which tents of all character are to bo put up, where stables aro
to be located, where stoiehouses aro to be built and, lu fact, where evtry
unit ot a great canvas city to shelter twenty thousand Is to fit Into an
up-to-date encampment.
. Brig. Gen. Parker feels more than a pa-sing interest In the New
York mllltla. At the outbreak of tho Spanlsh-Amurl-an war he was de-
1-
(Continued on
Fourth Pax)
Mine. Gadski and Their Daugh
ter Shower Him With
Kisses.
TOOK ONLY 2 BALLOTS.
Jurors Discredited Testimony
of von der Goltz, Confessed
Conspirator, It Is Said.
Copt. Hans Tauscher, former Ger
man army officer and long- Krupp
agent here, was acquitted to-day by
a Jury In United Statiw Judge A. N.
Hand's court of complicity tn n plot
to blow up tho Welland Canal and
wuge a war of terror against Cana
dian shipping.
Tho Jurors went out at 11.15 and re
turned at 12.15. When Foreman Al
phonso Hodgman announcod the ver
dict thero wero shouts of approval
from tho spectators. Those sitting In
tho back of tho room arosn and
started forward In a moss movement
to surround and congratulate Cnpt.
Tauscher. Tho gavel dropped and
back they went to their oats.
There was not a word from Mme.
Gadski, tho opera singer, who Is Capt.
T.iui-eher's wife, or from her daughter.
Miss Lotta Tauschcr, who were pros-
cnt- Both cried In silence, nnd then
showered him with kisses. Miss Ixitta I
was tho first to shako hands with the ;
Jurors. Then her father and mother
did tlie Fame.
Ueforu the Jury wan discharged As
sistant I'nlted States Attorney Itogor
Wood dismissed tho remaining Indict
ments against Capt. Tauscher. Mr.
Wood shook hands with Capt Tau
schcr and the latter Introduced the
man who had flayed him unmercifully
to Mine. Gadski and Miss Tauscher.
Ueforo leaving tho courtroom Capt.
Tauscher paid f.h lespects to tho
Court. "This result shows mo," ho said,
"that American Judges and Juries anil
tho people aro fair. I know from tho
start that they would not convict mo,
but their verdict to-day reassures mo
of their falrnoss anil truo Ainorl
canlsm." It was understood that the, Jurors
ngreed on a verdict on the second bal
lot. All, It develupod, disbelieved von
der Goltz, thn confossod loader of tho
expedition to l;aratla, from the start,
and nttached no weight at all to his
statement that Capt. Tauscher talked
openly to 111 in about tho plot to de
'Mroy tho canal and then sold him
i dynaralto with which to do the Job.
I Capt. Tauscher and his family re
mnlnod In tho courtroom for llvo mln
,utes after tho Jury loft. As they
I started to go a crowd of sympathizers
1 In tho corridor surrounded tliam and
. grasped tho Captain's hands. There
worn cries of "Hoch" as tho party
mado Its way to tho elevator and dis
appeared.
BURTON IS CHOSEN
BROOKLYN POSTMASTER
Nomination Is Scheduled to Be
Sent to Senate by Wilson
Before Night.
WASHINGTON, Juno 30. Tho
nomination of Walter C. Ilurton as
Postmaster at Hrooklyn, N. Y., Is
scheduled to go to tho Sonato this
afternoon.
till lec. 3 last Mr llilrlon was
named urting postmi'ster, full iwlng
the ii'.l'i.itl"!i of William II. Kellj.
who was elci-tcd County Clerk at the
lant election.
(For Racing Results 8s Past 2.)
Mr. Hurton was born In Canada and
went tu iliv),,l;lyn thlity-llvn years
ago. lie was elected Slate Seimtor
mi the licmun.itic ticket in 1'jo:. liov.
U.x named Mr. IliirUm ;l.s a I'lvll Sor
iec i-iiminiHHiiiiier, in wnieti ntiiee he I
filled uo lonn He is married and
i..vM.n m v.. 1t-.lt I.',.-.. , I
" ' u -aciilliu
Street, Urooklyn
Four Lads of the Same Family Who
Are Members in Co. G of the 47th Regiment
,.i.t--.t..i. :..;-;.;..?-$
niwuwHSljffl BOROUGHS
PUI 10 DEATH FOR
Hanged in Pairs on Double
Scaffold, One Shouts "Not
Guilty!" Others Calm.
DKMINO, N. M Junn 80. Four
Villa bandits who wero In tho Colum
bus raid March 9 weru hanged In tho
Jail hero early to-day.
The men wero put to death In pairs
on a double scaffold. They faced death
calmly.
Two others of tho Columbus rnld
crs wero hanged hero some daya ago.
Tho death sentence of Joso Hod
rlguez, tho remaining bandit of tho
seven recently tried, was commuted
by Gov. W. C. McDonald to life Im
prisonment. Taunlno Garcia, still suffering from
tho wound he received In the raid
said Just bofore the trap was sprung:
"I am about to die and wish my
enemies to forglvo mo as I do them."
Kuscvlo Itentorla, who, with Garcia
made up tho first pair, smiled and
urged his companion to bn brave.
Juan Castillo, In thn second patr
with Joso Ilangel, was defiant. "I am
about to dlo, but I am not guilty," he
shouted.
Ilangel smoked a cljrarette as thn
nooso was adjusted.
A Spanish priest accompanied the
four Mexicans to tho g.illowi.
Twenty deputies with riot guns and
a company of Now Moxlco mllltln
from Columbun formed a cordon
about tho Jail to-day to prevent any
outbreak by the large Mexican pop
ulnUon of Doming.
NO RAID ON PRESIDIO,
REPORT TO FUNSTON
Denial Also Made of the Report of
Concentration of Mexicans
at Guzman.
HAN ANTONIO, Juno 30. Oen.
Funston received u niessago from
Col. Gaston to-day denying reports
that the Carranza garrison at
OJinaga had attacked tho American
forces at Presidio, Tex,
Scouting detachments sent to In
vestigate teports that drraiua cav
airy were concentrating In large
numbers near Guzman found no
evidence that th Mexicans were
picturing to cut the Amerlciti line
of communication. The ganison at
liuzman, iniy sain, nan nceii somx
what Inci eased by civulry .ur.vmg
from the xouth.
OltWeivi hem H.ilil to-day (li ri per
I shlng's line of ''ommunleatloiis ivas
jentliely open. Tliey di-tiled ,i icporl
'that a truck train hound fi"tn Co
iimliiiH to t'oloiiia Imlilau ii. id bi'en
turned back lust iiIkIii through fear
of a Moxlcaii fulvu of iwo Ihuutiuiii
men. . .
RA D ON WHS
).-... a.l.. - - sv -
AS IT GOES
Trolley Cars Take the Regi
ment From Brooklyn Armory
to Trains in Manhattan.
Thn Forty-seventh lleglment, of
Ilrnoklyn, went to camp at Peeksklll
to-day, nnd while It was entralnlng
thn announcement camo that the
Twonty-thlrd. also of Urooklyn. di
stend of following tho Forty-seventh
to Peeksklll, would start for nrowns
vllle, Tex., dlrnct within a few days.
When tho Twer.ty-thlrd leaves all
tho Infantry of tho National Guard
tn New York City will be away,
either In campi, at tho border or
tiound thero.
Cheered vociferously every stop of
tho long Journoy from Its armory In
Mary Avenue, Brooklyn, across tho
Williamsburg Ilrldgo, along tho lower
east side, ncro Manhattan and up
tho west sldo to tho entraining point
nt .Sixtieth Htrent, tho Forty-suventh
got away for Peeksklll soon after 10
o'clock.
Tho regiment reached Peeksklll
about noon after an uneventful trip
and Immediately proceeded to make
camp.
Thirty trolley cars, with forty men
to tbo car, carried tho flfty-threo of
fleers and eleven hundred men from
their headquarters to tho railroad
yards, every halt of tho cars being
tho signal for an ovation.
Col. Krnest E. Jannlcky led his en
thusiastic charges from tho armory
soon ftftor 7 o'clock. Tho cheers of
tho soldiers, glad of release from the
Irksomo waiting of tho last ten days,
mingled with thoso of thn thousands
of relatives and frlend-i banked nbout
the big soldier shop.
Tho hysterical scenes which the city
(Continued on Fourth Pago.)
FIGHTING AGAIN IN MOROCCO.
NlinnUU Troopa Hon ISntlrra In
llrnvy IIiiunHemrnl l.naara llrnt y
MADHID, June 30--(Via Pari)
Fighting ha broken out ngaln In Mo
rocco between nntlvr.i nd Hpanlsh
trnopn, The announcement was mode
to-ilay that In a heavy iingiiKement
the Mororcnn p-bH had ben repulsed
with Ihtko louses
The Spanish eastialtleH Include two
Major, tlirei. ('jpialns and many oilier
otln ers nnd in"ii
$10 Men's & Ycung Men's Suits, $5.95
The "HUD" nothing ''orriiT. ilrnml.
way at lliiiclay Ht (Opp, Woolworlh
Dullillng). t n mlr to cl.u & HaiiintHv,
1 (mO .Men's & Vomi Mi n', Units. I'lneh
lliieks. blin'i, blm h plaids, blown,
nriiy A fine,' mneil Sunn 32 to It Our
nie((il iir. for In I si v unit H'lturil.iy
Open Snlilr li ntuht till HI HUD
Clothltri, UrvaJtvoy, tr. liurcluy tit,
iUvt. m
- 1'?i - fi !'-
HAIL 47TH
10 PEEKSKILL
?-
I
IN EAST RIVER;
Survivors Picked Up by Tug
Flushing Details of Ac
cident Unknown.
Tho motorboat Klrlna, nn oyster
flshor from Oyster Hay, was over
turned In tho Kast Hlver off Hlx
teenth Htroet this aftornon and two
of tho crew woro reported drowned,
ono of them being a boy caught tn
the boat's cabin.
Observers along thn New York
shore said that tho Klrlna was In col
lision with a steamer, which threw
Ufa preservers to tho men struggling
In tho water. Other craft put out to
the rescue, among them tho tugs
Htnrlight and Flushing.
The survivors woro picked up by
the flushing, which also took thn
capMlzed Klrlna In tow to Tregar
then's Pock ut tho foot of Klgftth
tttreot.
The Klrlna was loaded with soda
water In cases.
DRAFT OF GUARD WITHOUT
NEW OATH HELD LEGAL
Experts Construe Army Act as Giv
in' I'resi.lent Sweeping
Powers.
WASHINGTON, Juno 30 It was
learned to-day that War De
partment leirnl exports construe
the resolution adopted by Congress
and sent to the White House yester
day, as granting authority to draft
every enrolled mmbnr of the Na
tional Guard Into th Ftderal service
whenever Ihn President shall decldn
the ntep Is iiceeHH.try.
Tho draft would apply, they believe,
to all guardsmen, whether they take
a new o.itli or not.
I'llder ibis construction the whole
enioll'd strength of thn Statu troops,
now upwards of 130.000 men, could tit
colli d into lv'" 1-Vdi tal hi rvire with
nu' ibi.ij, and be iiioil ntlur on the
holder I'l in Mf ii o.
M'KVII 'I'NIMV I.N I UK UIU N I IN.s,
Hftulifiil JUUvwii'l I'mk Wil 1 1 in ' ifMiih'l,
(or nouu'fi Anil iliillttii, 1 riuU Uu, Uui'l
VtllW KUie4. Aitlt,
BOA
RUN
DOWN
1
DROWNED
FIRST CHIEF STANDS 11
UPHOLDS
T
n
REPORT FROM MEXICO CITY
Official Answer to Wilson's Demand
Is Still Held Up, and Lansing Is
Said to Have Asked Arredondo to
Speed It Up.
WASHINGTON OFFICIALS
IMPATIENT AT DELAY
WASHINGTON. June 30. Private advices reach
ing Washington from a reliable source in Mexico
City to-day said General Carranza and his advisers
had determined to stand by orders to General
Trcvino to attack American troops in Mexico moving
in any direction except toward the border, and that
no way was seen to avoid a break with the United
States.
A faction of the Mexican Cabinet, it was said,
was urging an even more defiant attitude and wanted
to include in the reply to the American request
for a statement of intentions a new demand for
immediate withdrawal of all United States troops
now on Mexican soil.
The advices did not indicate when the response from Carranza might
be expected. The last word on the subject to the State Department came
in a message from Special Agent Rodgers, who said he expected the note
to be handed him Wednesday night.
Secretary of State Lansing to-day asked Mexican Ambassador Arre
dondo to speed up Gen. Carranza's reply to the last American demands.
The request was made during Arredondo's call at which he delivered a
copy of the order on the release of the Carrizal captives, but had nothing
to say about when Carranza's answer to the demand for au early statement
as to his attitude toward American troops in Mexico.
These facts developed after the Cabinet session. Only brief con
sideration was given the Mexican situation because of the President's haste
to catch a train for New York, where he will speak to-night before the
Press Club. Reports were that the Cabinet decided the United States
could not give Carranza very Ttuch
attitude toward this Government.
Air. Arredondo to-day took tip with"
Secretary IiuhHik' aftnln tho question
of aliened maltreatment of .Mexicans
on the American sldo of thn border,
and asked that steps ho takin to pre
vent further trouble of this tort.
On returning to thn ldnb.issy ho
mado publlo a messarja from .Mexico
City saylnfr that aJthoiiBh thn State
Department had teleirnphed Special
Aennt Hodrjers to warn all Amerkyns
to leave Mexico at otico or th.i I'nltuit
States Government would not ho re
sponsible for thn ronseiiinacos, ac
tually less than 300 had left Mexico
City, anil not more than ?oo left the
surrounding country.
"The majority of Americans In
Mexico L'lty." said tlu despatch,
"havo elected to remain, as they
havn been In Mexico throughout all
tho trouble in thn last live years
and no one of them who has not
(one out of Ids way to Invite
Vriiubln has ever been inobsted.
The M''le.in Government I'as irivon
pmltlvii KU.ir.inUe for the pioleo
tlon of the lives and propeity of
Ami i leans in ihn State.i of T.ib.is.'o
and (iuuiiMju.it. i uhiin'MT ,uii
A uiericins txnress ill Mre In re-
wain, uud unquestionably It will do
more time to shape once for all his
so In nil other portions of tho re
public. "Since thn heKinnnig of Internatlon
nl dlttleuitles no disposition has ever
been exhibited here, at any tlmo, to
molest any American on account of
his nationality, although those who
havo sought troubln usually havo
been accommodated."
Olllclal reports to th Stato De
partment have shown that only a fow
hundred Amnrie.ins am left In nil
Mexico,
liespiti) protests from ths l.'nlted
States the Carranza Government ap
parently liiteinis to enforce thu new
Mexican mining tax law. Special
Altent ItodKfiH ndvlsed the Statu Do
partment to-day that penalties for
non-payment of tho tax during July
would not be Imposed, but that after
wards fines would ho at thn rata of
:3, 50 and too pi-r i- nt , respectively,
after Auifiist, September anil October
1. Outright forfeiture of mining
pr. perties fur di 'iini'n nt t,iea after
Oct. I is tilt'-' in n- I
i in: utiKi.K i it n i.i. in iiK.m,
Al..J I'm ! i .Wui.li HuiUiiii.
1. 1 i ,m It I Cur,
Ticket., r. ,.n m. nj. ,v, u ill rtff.
miw ic4.tni.v i iiii .in! iviutb America
Hr.uu.tii lin It.t.'.;. in. I pjrwl cluck room
Sid&NXK
