MARKETS
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 28, 25.77.
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
Vl.n
VOL. 19, NO. 29.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JUNE 30, 1916.
r-mv,wFIrE CENTS.
CHIEF DEMANDS OF U. S.
EXPECTED 10 BE SPUR
fflf GENERAL CUR
Vital Point Of Whole Issue Rests Upon Whether Carranza
Will Guarantee Freedom Of Movement Of Pershing's
Troops In Northern Mexico, Or Oppose Them. Fears
Felt He Will Resist Movements, West, East Or South
ID
RANZA
IN MEANTIME UNITED STATES
GUARDS ARE HURRYING TO BORDER
American Attitude Still Is That Carranza Is Unable To Guar
antee Adequate Protection To American Side Of Line,
And That There Is Little Hope Any Agreement For Co
operation Could Be Arranged. Mediation Refused
vHsH.:." :(q C C ycil lBackinOldU.S.A.inSombreros
! ohawls and Blankets, Lome 24
j Heroes of the Battle of Carrizal
ty-tlire. . watermelons, the Rift
of a local commission merch-ant-'vre
awaiting the twenty
thn . negro troopers when
the;- Trued at Kurt ISliss.
Miliy discipline did not pre-
vent their satisfying their ap-
petites immediately.
"Oh. boy! You don't know
how good this tastes after
those Mexican frijolea." one
of the twenty-three exclaimed
as he sank li is teelli into a
melon. j
li
I
I
ERCAS
SENTENCED 10
HANG FOR
1
threat in
"speech
President, Addressing Ad
Men At Philadelphia, Ad
mits He's "In Fighting
Mood" At Last
i
)
IS STILL MISSING
FJO
INFERENCE IS HE
MEANS MEXICO !
SAX ANTONIO. June 29.
A revised list at department:
headquarters indicates that'
15 men and officers of C ami
K troops still are missing. O.'t
this number General Trevlno
reported 12 killed. The rec
ord shows that 47 men and
one officer .have returned to
the American lines. The total
list when the expedition start
ed was 87, Including a Mexican
and a Mormon serving as
guides. The return to the
border of 24 prisoners leaves .
as missing IK
j Titled Irishman, Convicted Of !
Conspiracy Against Great)
Britain, Pleads For Trial Be :
fore Irishmen i
I American Principles Must Be
j '. Vindicated In Foreign Re
1 lations, He Says, While
Big Crowd Cheers
BENEFITS
i
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON". June 2S. The Washington government still awaited
tonight full compliance with its demands by the de facto government (
though the release t'Jday by General Carranza's order of the American
prisoners taken at Carrizal has averted the probability of immediate re-1
taliatory steps. It is possible that it has also helped to pave the way to-j
ward an attempt at peaceful settlement Of the whole border situation, j
High officials made it very clear, however that the vital point at issue j DOOMED MAN TO
em Mexico encased to guarding the border and pursuing bandits who APPEAL CASE "L?. A- ?Ad.m.aI. .-""Ji'.I
raided American territory remains to be settled,
(Fy Review Leased Wire.)
PHILADELPHIA. June 29. Pres
ident Wilson, describing himself as
"in a lighting mood" today speaking
to a large crowd in Independence
Square.- 'jutlined his conception of
replj
The state department had no advices tonight as to when a diplomatic Tells Court He Is Beinz Tried
lv to its demands might be expected. The Carranza government has n v s ,
adopted the unusual course Of complying in fact with an urgent demand j y oov? icau urn,
from a foreign government before it even acknowledges receipt of the note: That Are All For King,
or made any statement of what it proposed to do. r . p Cmmirv '
Pending a satisfactory an?wer to its second and more far-reaching re-1 i,ot ror vxranuy
quirement, the Cnited States will continue to hurry troops to the. border
and to take every step necessary in preparat.On for the carrying out of its
purposes by force of arms.
Carranra May Stand Pat.
Intimations have come, it is understood, that Carranza intends to
back up the orders issued to General Trevino directing that American
tiOops be attacked if they moved in any direction in Mexico except to
ward the border.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
' LOXHOX." June' 29. StrRog7ras
ment was found guilty today and sen
tenced to death by hanging.
He declared that America, in dealing
with other nations, must "vindicate at
whatever cost." its principles of liber
ty, justice and humanity; that "Ameri
ca, first" must be translated into ac
tion exalting it above all selfish in
terests; and that the nation's policy
and deve.Opnient must be guided by
the whole people and not by any
small group.
May Mean Mexico.
DELAY
U. S. ARMY ill
GREAT MANY
III
Diplomatic Tie-up Enables ,
Guards To Get To Border!
And New Aerial Corps To'
Recuperate Strength
Applause repeatedlv interrupted the.
Piniel T Poiloir .,,.:.,, . uuirn. juetrunu iiKeu iinnicuiuriy f inj i vsrs-irv&x.j.ktlJLai J
fiFiu-t-i, the Prpililsnl'l Hp, lur-Jlinn tliof Amur).
can principles must be vindicated in
the country's foreign relations which i
Released Captives Of Tenth U. S. Cavalry Take Rrt Deep
Breath At El Paso Since Many Long Days And Nights
Of Almost Interminable Terrors. El Pasoans Line The
Streets For Miles And Cheer Dusky Boys Home Again
TWICE THREATENED WITH EXECUTION; THEN
STONED AND FINALLY RESCUED BY PRESIDENT
Tales Of Troopers And White Guide Differ Widely On Blame
For Battle Of Carrizal; Wounded Comrades Reported
Massacred As They Lay Helpless On Bloody Field;
Troopers Shed Tears As They Gaze On Old Glory Again
...' (By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, June 29. The twenty negro trooper of the Tenth Cavalry
who at Carrizal, Villa Ahumada, Chihuahua City and Juarez, have been
central figures in the most striking and potential chapter of the Mexi
can situation, are once more safely out of Mexico.
Survivors of a bloody battle with a vastly superior force: victims
twice of mobs that stonned them; more than once gripped with the
fear of execution for their part in the Boyd expedition; and lastly ob
jects of intercession by the President of the United States, they were
brought to the border from Chihuahua City on a special train today
and turned over to General George Bell, Jr., commander of the El
Paso Base.
With them came Leni H. Spillsbury, the Mormou scout who guided
Captain Charles T. Boyd and his little command over the trail that
led ytO the Carrizal encounter. Spillsbury spent the night at the home
of his brother here. The troops were quartered at Fort Bliss, awaiting,
orders from General Funston at San Antonio.
'BLAME FOR BATTLE DIFFERS
Two stories, widely diverging were brought back from their captivity
by the prisoners. One, tcld by Spillsbury, upholds statements he was
credited with making at Chihuahua City, charging Captain Boyd with
"bull headedness" in advancing in the face of a certain Mexican attack.
The other, narrated by fighting men of the Tenth, declares the Mexi
cans to have been the aggressors and blames them for the ensuing
slaughter.
The latter account is embellished with charges that hae not hither
to been brought to light.
' 1
held as his accomplice, was diseharg
jed upon an instructed verd'et of the
- Officials are fully prepared for a Captain Boyd and one of the pm'on-! jury. After the verdict. Sir Roger apparently was
... : ., ft .,i,n.;tin. t'.v . . . "K "e- .Mexi
iaci mat. uie pri.stniers latini a.i .ti iiic nuirmou (Timid j aumui a. ti.tuf fiiirH'f -oimihhoi . rus sime- ti.,.! .li.i t. . ,n, 1, .i
rizai have been promtply surrendered lays the blamo for the clash upon thejmert plea4ed for the right to be trid or anv ()tller tdni"n Da"ion directly .
on demand. They expect, however. Americans. Final decision by Wash- j hv Irishmen ami for Irish nationality.! jay8 y Must Be Ready ''
that the reaffirmation jf position will ingl'Jn as to the responsibility lor the! Sir Roger will take an appeal. -j viee '" the President said
be made in a note free from hostile , fighting cannot be reached until com- i Theie were numerous striking sen-j"tnat America the' country we put
IBIlKuae BIIU lunilHUIllR iiitr uioliio- piri- It-pull liuiil vreucioi riaiiiuf 13 irrarn ill li'Jg"rs spei't'n . lirt n nlir llinm-lifu cM.nlil roa.lv'
Antiquated Laws. I in every point of policy and of air--
"I here is pn obiection. possibly not 10 munaie at wnatever cost. , i-w ijipntal to new negotiations
good in law. but snrelv good on mor- lue puncipies 01 noeri. 01 justice ; witn (;eneral Carranza will be of iu
interpreted as refer-. Strong Forces Reported Men-
icn situat.'jn. At no' . n 'i " t
Which Retires North, With
out Fears, However
sion of the advisability of the with- received. He is gathering from sur-
drawal of the American troops fi'jm ' vivors all information they have and
Mexico. Apparently Secretary Lans- will submit a full report to Secretary!1
ing is ueterminea to get a ciear siaie-, uaKer. wno win. in turn, iransmu u- . 1W . and rr hun.anitv. to which we hav ' ZLTLZZ'IZ" c.'
. r-. ... ui. .,.,u. - op rsiiuiauie ueiirut iu mr t. iiii-c-u
plication to me here of this old Eit- beew unvoted from the first ! the course of events cause a
cost, pnrai Ihs1i between the t'nited
ment of intentions on which action p the state department.
by the .Cnited States can be founded. ' One of Mr. Arredondo's notes asked i
Jish statute, thnt is 5Sfi vears old. that ! bpl'pve that at whatever
tarranza omciais prjiess an earnest punishment or two soldiers ana two, . . , . - ,! America should he init t nthr . . . . . , , .
desire to avoid a Cash, however, and civilians who were reported to have u ' " " " nle and treat otlVerneon a L de-'""f " l"?..' 1""?
cunt iii.t iiimiim, iiui kn n'liiri .... ... t n lllllirilk. ai luiuiup. niuij v. i
a further struggle to fix diplomatically beaten a Mexican toy"on a train near
responsibility for hostilities that may Hachita, N. M.
come is foreshadowed.
Mediation Premature.
Mr. Lansing made it clear today to
Ignacio Calderon, minister from Bol-,
ivia, that pending a formal reply from '
the Carranza government to his last
note, r.'j offer of mediation would be
acceptable to the United States. The
minister had noted reports that the
Carrizal prisoners had been released ,
and called to see whether that had ;
changed the attitude of the Washing- j
ton government. Mr. Lansing again I
WOUNDED TROOPERS MASSACRED.
Private William n r.ih.n. k.
ON BORDER TODAY,, , the Americans had quit the field of the Carrizal battle, the Mexicans
. : ' went over It and killed several Americans who were wounded but
still alive. .
i Gibson's assertion was corroborated by Privates Archie Jones and
Luther Alexander.
Numerous others of the troopers claimed they had been rebbed of
money and valuables following their capture.
Thousands Greet Troopers. by a vast roar of oheerina from the
The arrival of Spillsbury and the thousands gathered there. However,
negro troopers at the border today the authorities soon squel. h-U th
loon ranK in tne annais or M Paso uVmonstrarion to the great disappoint-
' . A T .1.. . . ...
auu jiuin auu i ne recent isu 01 ment f tue participanU who stood
Generals Scott and Obregon. Thou- from unup until 3 o'clock io the jf
anns gatnerea in ooin cities to wa
nes the event.
In Juarez, a big crowd at the Mexi
can Central railroad station viewed
the diseiobarking of the prisoners
(By Review Leased Wire)
SAX ANTONIO. June 29. Any d
ternoon to welcome the incoming
fnwipa. One of the features of the
day's developments was the arrival
h-re of Captain Lewi Morey. fo--treatment
n ibe Fort Plisn hospital of
TROOPERS' BODIES.
TO BE BROUGHT OUT
tng to tne Kings enemies, but ror ad-. "' ..rai -. here. No similar advantage would iirom tnetr special tram ltn curiosity. ,ne wound lie had receited at Carrl-jl
i i . .. . Tlmt I mil rflndv tn fivht !! at ... ... . . i Ik... . .. i ' .-j ...,.
iHTing io. ni.i own people. i - ......... accrue to tne Mexican iorces. acuru-
True to His God. I T C?St lZ ?ZU , , . ,,'lnK to thosP in tlo8e touch with tbe
vjou. , I rging that the whole neonle shoulil ..... n: . , ,.. ....
......v. u ,x. urm lilt IIULIIIIILII IIUIH'lr'S. LI1H
was the state of men's mind on the ident said that some men nretended ..,. "!.. 7......". u
question of a far higher allegiance, to believe in the average man but . .:,i ,i, T jr. ,'i..u rA.
that of man and his God to his king- when they acted they showed they;, tue border 8uhstitution of na.
don, that law of that day did not per- did f!Hard8mPn. but ,n tUe concen-
mit him to forsake his church or de- "Oh! you Teddy." some one shout-! tration of BUUDiie. f0r a big camnaign.
but gave no onard evidence of , on- only an hour before the prisoner were
n Itv 7" anil hun a a thuir rksnn -. ' .
Remove Corpses
succeeded in convincing his caller j
that it would be a waste 'of time to ,
atteniDt to talk about mediation at
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
MEXICO CITY. June 29. Minister
this stage whatever might be possible 01 " Br unregon toaay mstructea uen-
, eral Trevino tiie Mexican commander
The attitude of the government on
this question as officially outlined
later, that the United States has
i.'jthing to arbitrate. If General Car
ranza withdraws his orders and then
proposes that an attempt be made to
formulate through mediation an agree
ment of some sort or joint proposals !
in protecting the border. It might GERMAN
receive attention.
, Insist on "Hot Trail"
The right to pursue raiders into
Mevitri would be maintained and ex
ercised without interruption
at Chihuahua, to inform Consul Gar
cia at Kl Paso that no Impediment
would be placed in. the way of the
American authorities if they desired
to remove the bodies of the American
troopers killed at Carrizal to Ameri
can territory for burial.
PLOTTER'S
FATE FIXED TODAY
traitor. Todav a man may forswear j individual.
God and his heavenly realm without
fear or penalty .all earlier statutes i
having gone the way of Nero's edicts
mlty. Now and then as they progresn
i'd from the station to the disinfect
in? plant, from that point to the com
mandacia, and finally to tbe interna
tional bridge, there were scattering!
disapproving Jeers. In the main.
however, the Mexican people
with reserve.
In Minstrel Costumes.
Once the crowd In Juarez
acted ;
, p , . , . , , ..... .. .. ' iraiiwil til Buuuura iui . t. . p.. . ..
General Irevmo finally ; " "'s y'mV. Wlln . "Ie lnpru. n "p fresment Hastened to ex-lt lllobiiuation -of transport facilities 1
. . innoei men naa tne same doom as tne ; plain that he was not referring to any anJ the rehabnitation of the flying I
jrarlS rermiSSlon lo traitor. Todav a man may forswear j individual. I , . ,..:,.
Often Cheered. j General Bell, at El Taso. reported witu Kenuine good humor. That wan
r.-.. m nvln General Funston that the 23 I v "oopers nescenuea irom me
i itah tronoiotA it in what As Ampripfln nrinonprd taken bv me
against the Christians, but that rem- L o(u.,..ont k....i. a I ioir.ona at rurHrai hal hwn turned
, o i i. 1 1 1 v iii. iuai ui uiii ii uitiliCU
stitutionai phantom the K.ng can , applause rll(pr8 als0 ,,rpHed the lover t'j him. He gave no details of
still dig un from the uV.neeon and tor- ; preBl,,ent.s dPCiBration that while he the stories told by the prisoners,
ure chambers of the diwk n.-. law I vag n(t ,nlewiltwl infi.htinR for however.
that takes a mans life and limb for j hilIlst.lf, ht wa8 "immensely interested News that General Trevino had oc
an exercise of his conscience. , jn hun,inR for the things that I be- cupied Santa Clara, Namiqulpa and
True to Countrymen. j lieve in and so far as they ure con-' Las Cruecs and was concentrating
"If true religion rests on love, it is eerned. I am a challenger to all! large forces south of El Valle caused
eauallv true that lovaltv rests on love, .vomers." I r.M anxiety lor tne saieiv oi i.enerai
The law. I am charged under has no
parentage in love and claims that alle
giance of today on the ignornnce and
blindness of the past.
"r am being tried, in truth, not by
Officially the President addressed Pershiirs's column. - The same was
delegates to the convention of the
Associated Advertising Clubs of the
World, but a mixed crowd beard him.
He spoke in the open air. under the
(Continued on Page G)
train. Stripped of their uniforms af
ter the battle of Carrizal. and with
restoration only partly made, the
dusky soldiers were decked out in
striking and motley garb. Their ap
oearance brought forth a chorus
laughter.
Cheered on Return.
When the formalities of the transfer
had been ended, and the Americans,
marched off the international bridge
to the El Paso side, they were greeted
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK. June 29 The case of
..n.i if Hans Tauschir. former German rn,vi"r'- out Dy tne hruiainv or tne lour-
tv,o hnrH-r r.an h nrr.neriv nmterterl ' officer, who has been on trial in the teenth. not even by a siftiute framed
onlv bv temporary militarv occupation ) federal court for several days under ,n tho language of the land thnt trieo
of Mexican territory adjacent fj the ' an indictment charging him with com- bu 'dlM' in t,,p' liree of n enemy
line, that would be the course pur-;plicity in a plot to destroy the Well- land- antiquated is the law that
sued. It is understood that the Wash-! and canal in September. 1914, will go n,ust bp s,'Rht today to slay an Insh
ington government would not under, to the jury tomorrow. i (Continued on Page 5
any circumstances, consent tj a mill-1"- " - " '
tary status quo during a discussion
of possible compromise measures.
Officials indicated they had little hope
that an agreement for cooperation
could be arranged. The ITnited
States already has declared officially
its belief that General Carranza is
unable to guarantee adequate protec
tion to the American side of the
line.
The temporary relaxation of tension i
mv teers of the 1 v ne present, but i OI inuepenuence au. lie'
;by the fears of the dead past, not hyj'eft rlr Washington immediately after
the civilian I if hi of the twentieth ceu- i mp address.
SIGN PEACE PACT Al
610 U. S. TROOPS
AiioTnm Tnnii nv nnnn mm
u m n u mnii n nnnn h i
liuuiiiiiii l uiiii wi uwww mtv
ITALIANS: l BIG RETREAT
released. t apiain Morey s iooiid;
was almost lost siv.ht of in ib other
event. Toniuht he arraegfd to vUit
the duskv soldiers at Kort RHhu. Fif
teen of them, the men of K Tnop. are
under his roinipand.
S-hediiled to arrive at Juarej earlv
! this morning, the 5e.-ia! train iM
etd by tJeneral Jacinto Trevino t
acted Chihuahua Citv to cariT tUf 24 prison
ers to the border, in response to Pres
ident Wilson's peremptory demand,
did not pull into Juarez until noon.
Departure wns made in the nisht ITif
prisoners being taken to the train s
rrettv so as to avoid arousing ih
people. It was atTost 9 o'clock when
of the tmin pulled out.
The crowd which greeted the train,
consisting of an engine, tank, d iy
coach and caboose, parked the sta
tion platform, lined the railway tracks
to the town's main afreet and sat on
the tops of empty box cars.
Juarez Celebrates. Too.
Straw sombreros of every size and
brieht shawls showed that a larjte prt
came from the hill ranches. Th
crowd in all, represented the tlas
I that has fousht the revolution Th
i r-r'oners were slow in eerting
'.Their ruard issued first little brown
j soldiers whose uniforms bad been re-
rlved a bright s;iffron yellow, moir.e
I with straw sombreros and others wit:
effort to win French positions west ! J'Hlow carvas yarhtinR hats.
northwest of Verdun. Few Mexicans Jeer.
extending from 1 After the Carrsny.a -so'dlers hurt
TI" i formed an avenue along the outer
DUE THERE
(By Reviedw Leased Wire.)
NOGALES. Ariz., June 29. A defi-
Da i'age lo the American consulate
across the line during the looting of
Text of Speech.
The full text of President Wilson's
address follows:
"You will understand that I have
not come here to maka an evtendit
ndilress l d r.i neo.i tn ov.inin ini (By Review Leased Wire.)
vnn the eirennistnee i.i.h ,' LONDON. June 29. In a Russian of Hill S04.
mn.io it i.,..uii.i no i .i,n.,M attack over a front of 25 miles, ex-'after bombardment
unre n evtemleii o,l,lro.u hut t .mint tending eastward from Kolomea in', the Hill to the AOcourt woods.
mvself verv fortunate to be able to Galicia, the Austnans nave neen com-, curtain oi nre or tne rrencn ana me of he platform. Gen-rat Go-
leave mv duties at Washington long pelled to retire on a part of the front, fire of their infantry put down the j ia,.s entered the car. He returneJ
enough to face this interesting com- In the reg.On of Kolomea and south-j attack, however. Intense bombard- ( shortly with the of f cer of tbe guard
pnny of men who have the fine con-!ard. The Austrians valiantly at-1 ments continue northeast of Verdun ; anj joined Consul Garcia and Mayor
ception that it is their dutv to lift , tempted to hold back the uu-coming arounu rieury ana tne vaux t napitre rrieto of Juares on the platlorui. The
the standards and ideals of their pro- ' Russians but .according to lenna, and l nen-Jls woods. ; prisoner appeared in the diHr. A
fesslon. Emperor Francis Joseph's warriors The British along their part of the 1 , boru of derisive whistling rose from
i finally were compeiien io give i nun nmur hu.i iwisium 'riho crowd as he and his cornrad-
keeping up their heavy bombardment f,,,, ,j1w the car stei.s.
of German trenches and sending out, Though the faces of most of them
here was indicated today by President j
M'llenn'a trin tn Ptl i 1 il rf el Tlh i In ll 1-
1 " " ..i.n ...... nnnnPn V. . : I ; . ; . 1. ,...ii.i: rr- i r - . ,
iver an address. Mr. Wilson returned "T.""7"1 "-- ."ii.nn i u-suh.v nign. s nxn
tonight and one of the first matters ,n th,,, (Utr,ct woll,d not bo SPt in ; today by I'.iited States Consul Frede
to receive his attention was the na- niotion D-v KWb ,ora' evens r.s the rick Simpich t a nominal figure. Con
t'onal guard draft resolution. clash between American and Mexican j-sul Simpich. who has been living on
' ! soldiers here Tuesday night, was the American side in the present
Guards All Move Soutn (reached today between Col. W. H. j crisis, visited the consulate today in
The war department had little Sage, Cnited States commander, and i company with Mexican Consul Delga
definite information tonight as to the General Norzagaray. commandant of , do and Jose Estrada, owner of the
progress of the guardsmen toward the Mexican garrison in Nogales. So-1 house and its furniture. Nothing was
the border although word of the de- nora. The conference was held in tii:ising except a few books and cloth-
in the Mexican consulate here. General ing and the food left ther.
part ure of various troops poured
from all sides.
There were no additional reports
fiOm General Pershing as to the Car
rizal fight Eliseo Arredondo. Mexl-
Norzaearay crossing the line tor the
ptirnose. . Preparation of a ramp for troons
"It is now definitely understood." i en route here was being hastenad to
Col. Sibp said Irfter. "that in this dis- day .it being understood thst the
can ambassador-designate, maoe puD- trict tnere win oe no cattle until tne , present garrison of 2000 men will jjav
lie a ropy of the statement attributed , word has been received from Wash-1 been increased to neurly "within
to Lcui Spillsburr, interpreter for Irgton and Mexico City, respectively." ' a week.
Mn.. r,nilA. Ama.I
, , , 1 Der.ire superior iurrr.
I understand, gentlemen, that yOul , thi. L.l.tinL' and also In battles
have associated yourselves together!
near Kuty, in Dukowina. the Austrt-
in order to promote candor and truth
in me auverusemeni or your oiisiness. : nition 221 oflicers and lf.285 men
! wish verv murh. gentlemen, that i .. t aV., ..:, ,n,i heavv iruns.
raiding parties who are reported to iVd lean and drawn, and wore
candor and truth might alwavs be the
' ans suffered heavy casualties. In ad- be doing gi.'.Ml work inflicting more rTprps,Rion of anxietv the negrws pre-
or serious damage on the Germans B,.nted a ludicrous appearance. He
and bringing back prisoners. The . ro(t of ,nir ,.omplet, nilorm,
guns of the Rritish have done much I hi n b(,,. sfrjpped from them a:
damage to German trenrhes at many ; Viita Ahumada fnl!owln their hMle.
machine guns and stores were lost.
sianuarn or noimes as wen as mci-,. , i thl region
standard of business. I want to j HPeminB,v Kive them almost free ac
challenge your interest for a moment- .u-V'oriiottii.ii nrf to
aspec- 01 jour aciiMiies. 1 ,n(l ratlwav ,lne runnlng northwest
see how a man can devote , v-i, 1 mKr h lanital
of Caliria.
1 On
to this
' not
himself to candor and truth In the,
promotion of a particular business
without studying the life of tho great j
nation to whom he addresses his advertising.
Truth The Big Idea
points, according (O Ixindon.
In the Austro-ttalian theatre
Italians in the Trentino region are
still driving back the Austrians and
j recapturing Important positions taken
and had not been restored, they did
1 '
til I nAt inn If lik siMior
Towels for Headgear.
For headaear. they wore a motley
the central part of the Russian from them in the recent Austrian of- collection or nsts Donant from pnson-
i front In Volhynta. the violent battles fen she. The' Italians also have Opened . " m ne t ninnar.ua prison, inwns nr
around Linewka and in the region Of a bic offensive asalnst the ustr1sn coioren nanaanas. rrniirs were m
Sokul continue unsbated. Farther'on the eastern front around Mont " inv enses reduced t tinderwenr.
north the Germans have followed Saji Michle. San Msrtino and Ver- TwO of the men wore blank's in lieu
"I do not se bov a man ran fail.iheHi-v hnmhardmonta of various nosi-l mieliano. Here, however, according . of trousers. On had towel srwun l
having stsh!ished the horizon of his tions rith infantry attacks, which to Vienna, tbe Italians am being 'his wa.'st. Sandals sml shoes not of
business where thw great hills of PHrograd says were all repulsed. partly repulsed by Austrian lOunter army pstlern decked their ft. Ose
(Continued on Page 2) The Germans again have made an attacks. j (Continued o Pscs 4)
