AJLJttlD QUERQUE MORNING J OUKN AJL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
rHIUTY-SEVKNTU
Ten Pages
DEATH SEMTEHC
FDR TREASON
E
15
PRQNOUNCEO ON
ROGER CASEMENT
Lord Chief Justice of England,
Black -hooded, Sentences
Prominent Irish Peer to Be
Hanged,
SIR ROGER MAKES
FINAL STATEMENT
Prouder to Stand in Prisoner's
Dock Than Be One of His
Accusers, Says Convicted
Man,
ISV HONNIMM JOUASAL SPICIAI. LIAMB WlMIl
London, June 29. Viscount Head
ing, lord chief justice of England, with
a black cloth, called by tradition a
cup spread over his head, and his two
assistants in scarlet gowns, likewise
black -capped, pronoun ci the sen
tence of death for high treason on the
Irishman, Sir Hoger Casement, shortly
before & o'clock this afternoon, half
an hour after the foreman of the Jury
In a shaking voice, gave the verdict of
gutlty. An appeal will be taken by
till- Roger.
Sir Koger addressed the court, read
ing his final statement, with the ex
planation that he wished it might
reach a much larger audience than
the one before him, und particularly
the people of American, from whom
bad come many messages of sympathy
to him und whose own struggle for
liberty, he said, always had been an
inspiration to Irishmen.
Auditors Moved i( Tears.
Sir Koger's auditors, among whom
were viscount Hryce and many other
prominent men and women, listened in
deepest silence, some moved to tears.
The prisoner declared lie did not.
regard trial by Kiigllshmen in an Eng
lish court as a trial by his peers, to
which he was entitled. He reviewed
recent events in Ireland from the be
ginning of the formation of the Ulster
volunteers, and said:
"H'e have seen the constitutional
army refuse to obey the constitutional
government, and we were told the
first duty of Irishmen was to enter
TTmriiTnii'-VSiiWiirniifions Were'to' be
the first consideration. I saw no
reason why Ireland should he, any
blood for any people but her own.
I Not Ashamed.
"If that, is the reason, I am not
ashamed to avow it here. If the
unionists chose the road they thought
to be the good side, I know my road
Kul to the dark side, lioth of us
proved right. fc!o I um prouder to
stand here in a prisoner's dock, than
to fill the place of our accusers.
"Hclf-goi eminent is our riht. It.
is no more a thing to be withheld from
us or doled out to use than the right
to life or light, to sunshine or spring
flowerV
Throwing aside ills manuscript, Sir
iioger said:
"My lords, I have done. Gentlemen
of the Jury, 1 wish to thank you tor
your verdict. 1 meant no reflection
upon you when 1 said this was not
a trial by my peers."
With a sweeping gesture of his
arm and with more feeling than he
bad shown before, Sir Koger contin
ued :
"How would all men here feel"
here his voice broke "how would you
feel if an Englishman had landed in
Kngland and had been taken to Ire
land, if that man had been placed be
fore a jury in a community inflamed
against him, believing him to be a
criminal?"
Knee of Iiisliee Pnlc.
Then the piisoner shook hit mis with
a friend who was sitting below t lie
dock while, the usher placed the black
cloths over the. heads of the judges.
The voice of the chief justice was
firm, but his face was pale as he
spoke the few words in pronouncing
the sentence. le begun:
"Iioger iJuvld Casement, you have
been found guilty by a Jury of your
peers of high treason, the highest
ciinie known to the law," und con
cluded by sentencing him to
banged by the neck until you
uead."
flw'h w Sente-niv smiling.
The prisoner, leaning on the
railing of the, dock with his
frame, black beard and deep flashing
eyes, was easily the most distinguished
figure in the court except Viscount
Heading. Ah the judge pronounced
tile sentence, Casement Smiled. Then
a warder touched his arm und he
withdrew behind the green curtain
from what may bo his last appear
ance before the public which flaring
the-trial ha.i regarded him without
animosity, If not with some decree of
sympathy.
After Sir Koger hm been sen-
THE WEATHER
THIS WEATHKK tDUKCVST.
Itenver, June 29. New Mexico.
Friday und Saturday generally fair;
Hot much change In temperature.
local vi:athi;k HEroitT.
For twenty-four hours ending at C
P. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, It r degrees;
minimum temperature, til degrees;
range, 44 degrees; temperature at 0
p. in., S7 degrees; southwest wind:
clear.
CITY BANK CLEAKIKUS.
$5.",SI5.17.
mil u ii i un iiiiui
IN ACTIONS AS
WELL AS WORDS
cavc nnrninriiT
iiHi.i r r.i r u
wii i w i 1 1 VJ I U Ull I
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Friday, June 30, 1916.
Ten Pages
Dally by Carrier or Mall. M
Month, Klngle OipJe, M
Bandits Wound
Two Americans
tenced. Daniel J. Uuilev. the urivale
soldier, who had been held as his ac
complice was placed on the dock. The
chief justice directed the jury to re
turn it verdict of not guilty und Viuiley
was discharged.
1 ho attorney general announced
Bailey had affirmed he Joined the
Irish brigade wth the object of re
turning to his country and rejoining
the army. Under the circumstances
no evidence would be produced ugainst
mm.
Michael Francis Doyle of Philadel
phia, of counsel for Sir Roger, gave
out the following statement tonight to
the. Associated lless:
"The verdict, though regrettable to
us, was not a surprise. We will take
an immediate appeal to the criminal
court of appeals and -then to the house
of lords, if necessary, because we feel
that the point of law involving it stat
ute 500 years old under which Sir
Hogcr was tried never has been legal
ly tested."
"..(Mining to His Own IVnplo."
There were numerous striking sen
tences la Sir Koger's speech.
"There is an objection, possibly not
good in law, but surely good on moral
grounds," he said, "aga.iu.-t the appli
cation to me here of this old Etiglish
statute, 565 years old, that seeks to
deprive an Irishman today of his life
and his honor, not for adhering to his
king's enemies, but for adhering to his
own people.
"When this statute was pulsed in
1 3-" I, what was the state of men's
mind on the question of a far higher
allegiance, that of mau and his God
to his kingdom? That law of that day
did not permit him to forsake his j
church or deny his God save with his I
life. The heretic then had the same I
doom as the traitor. Today a man
may forswear Hod and his heavenly
realm without fear or penalty, all ear- j
lier statutes having gone the way of j
Nero's edicts against the Christiana: j
but that constitutional phantom, the '
king, can still dig up from the dun- I
geon and torture chambers of the j
dark ages a law that takes a man s ;
life and limb for an exercise of his '
Wilson Makes Patriotic Ad
dress to Great Gathering of
Advertising Men in Phila
delphia, PLEADS FOR TRUTH
IN POLITICAL AFFAIRS
Chief Executive Says Publicity
Men's 'Watchword Should
Be Adopted by People in
Public Life
Sun Antonio. Tex. June 29. Hun
tllls tit tucked the bridge over the .Me
dina river at Madioiui, Tex., about
twenty miles southwest of San An
tonio, tonight, according to a report
received here. The bridge guard of
1'nited Stales soldiers routed their as
sailants, who fled in the darkness.
Two Americans were wounded and
are being brought in to the base hos
pital Fort Sam Houston.. One of the
bandits was taken prisoner. The
I wounded men une expected to arrive
' early In the morning.
, No further details of the encount-'r
have been received at heatbiuarters.
iav uo.Nixa JOUKNKL 'Cll LtfcOTO wiati
I'hlladelphla, June 2tf. President
Wilson, describing himself as "In a
lighting mood," enunciated today to
a large crowd In Independence square
his conception of some of the cardi
nal American ideals. He declared that
America In dealing with other nations
mtisj "vindicate at whatever cost" its
principles of liberty. Justice and hu
manity; that "America first" must be
translated into action exalting it above
all selfish interests; and that the na
tion's policy and development must be
guided by the whole people and not
y any small group.
Applause repeatedly interrupted the
address. The crowd liked particular
ly the president's declaration that
American principles must be vindicat
ed in the country's foreign relations.
which apparently was Interpreted as I
referring to the Mexican situation. At1,
no time, however, did Air. Wilson : r
mention Mexico or any other foreign j UOll
nation directly. :
"America Mrwt In lieotls,"
"America first translated Into j
what yon do," was the pat-!
riotic rallying cry sounded by j
President Wilson in an address:
to the Associated Advertising Clubs'
EL DAS0 FIRES
"BEING PROBED
! MORNINC JOURNAL. , tv'tAk LA1D WlMI
Kl Paso, Juno i'i. A number of
fires, of undetermined origin, which
recently huve caused heavy losses In
Kl Puso. were being Investigated to
night by municipal authorities. The
investigation wus u direct result of a
fire which today destroyed the build
ing arid stock of James A. Dick a Co..
wholesale grocers, with a loss of
$250,000 only part of which was cov
ered by Insurance.
Another second fire here today
destroyed twenty-five automobiles und
the building of the I.one Star Motor
company, with ui estimated loss of
$60,000.
Several days ago another motor
company was destroyed with a simi
lar loss and several fires In down- j
town hiitltllni'ti hiit-e been ext InL'llishe.I '
since, then before they gained any
large headway.
VIENNA ADMITS !
RUSSIAN DRIVE
SO FAR CANNQ
I
BE CONTROLLED
$4,000,000 Will of
Mrs. Anln user Bit sci
Finishes Long Trip
woNI JOUINM. CIL UHIIO !
Chicago, June 29. After a trip
from lierlin negotiated through the
state department at Washington, the
will of Mrs. Anna Anheuser Ituseh,
daughter of the founder of the An
heuser liust h Hrewing company, rest
ed today in the urehlvrs of the pro
bate court here, The will disposes of
14,00(1,1)110.
Mrs. Hunch hrqueulhs her Oregon
ranch to her son, Fran, various arti
cles of Jewelry and art works to her
daughters, i.jijy Alexn, and th,. llar
ontwa i'uula von Kleydoiff, und di
rects that the remainder of her prop,
crty lie divided Into six equal parts.
Over Front of Twenty-five
Miles "Before Superior
FniTP " 'from the other half. This latter one-
I Ultstsd, bull' 011 I, In u-iii 1.1
W1..V1. ,'iu p,i ij in (It M ,
Kidney. Mrs, Huseli's son, Krttnx,
of l,os Angeles, receives u life Income
from his portion, the portion llfulf to
go to his widow anil his children.
Provision for Otto liusch is the same
as that for Fran?.
- ,, ... Three grandsons, Carl, Arthur and
. , . .. , r . r 1 "rt1' children of a. dead sot) of Mrs,
BukOWIlin OlffMlSlVi1 FrilltfU :'uch. each gets the income of one
Austrians Compelled to Retire1
10,500 MEN CAPTURED
BY SLAVIC FORCES!
German Attacks
French Curtain
Effective,
Repulsed;
of Fire Is
portion until he Is thirty years old
when he gets his one-third outright.
TUCSON TEEMS WITH
DEFENSE UNITS
: HuftMlhl JOUnMAI. Pet, LIAMD IM
111 a. Russian attack over a front of! "i Journm. nciti uh )
twenty-five miles eMendliig eastward; 1 uscon. Arm., June in. As trie
1 from Kolomea In llalicla, the A us- ' ""h" f a local preparedness enm-
:trlan have been cotnnelleil to retire P"K", siarieti since me Mexican situ
TROOPER
TAKEN
S
AT Hill AT
LAST ARRIVE ON
AMERICAN SOI
li
Twenty-three Negoes and Mor
mon Scout Are Turned Over
by Mexicans to U. S, Au
thorities, SPILLSBURY REPEATS '
TALE TOLD TO TREVIN0
Released Prisoner Says He
Vainly Remonstrated With
Captain Boyd to Turn Back
; After Warning,
DELAYS ARE FAR
FROM DANGEROUS
TO 0. S. TROOPERS
on
a p;m of the trout In the region I
of Kolomea and southward. The 1
Austrian valiantly attempted to hold I
back the on-eomlng Itussians but, uc-
illinti lifti'it III., itouli, I'm-....,. I,.,..ul. r.
-' ,.v,ii, 1 in. ifii nuimia v.. j
having more defense units than any ,
t ther border city. There have been ...
j organized home guard Infantry, home
cording to Vienna, limperor Francis " 11 " "". nue c uo oimauon, :it
Joseph's .,i riors finally were com- I u'-motl corps as auxiliary to home
! pelted to give ay to superior forces. I". ,UL UM'",r ""'M',
I In this fighting und also In battles ! J'h' 1" , , rlt'"" 1 ' CrT
jnear Kuty, in Hukowlna, the Austrians ; ,,: ''i: u f. ','T? "Th. . K. a.ih""-l.
'suffered heavy casualties. In addi- ,nX ml . 5- . T I
' tt.... it 1 .....1 tutu ...,. -....a i " ''n,t, measures, 'I nseon has sent
, ... . - n ! three companies to the
taken prisoner and heavy guns, ma- , inrulU tommmltf, wuI
chine- g.ins and stores were lost. The : (.()r,l8 in.Vporatod In
...tn..... r.,.. .. "'Its the 'I uscon Aero Kqtiutlron ussocl
Ingly gives them almost free access to j tj(l
; the CarpHthtlaii passes and to the rail- j -
.U AMITItlOANS WISHING
T() 1.KAVH HAVK DONK HO
Washington, June 29. Vir
tually all Americans except those
who have refused to leave, are
out of Mexico. Dispatcher today
to the stale un, wnr department
reported the capture of nice
thin 1,700 refugees.
'i--4.fi.
Venustiaiio's
Gives American
Chance to Get Better Pre
pared for Eventualities,
PLAN
way line running nortnwtvt from M- ! r,r Tn nrnrriTO
Cornea to U-mberg, the capital of la- , UtA I H bLM LF I lb
1t lilinrt 1: .1 . I
: ' . A.tatk, .1,-pu.s,,,. ! STARTED BY SANTA FE
Mrnrii " twn ' pruttmw wurnai, iriaiH limio wihi
i hosi.Ua !. Ki ,Jaso- '1x- Jun" 29 The twen
tonuiaT K!,y",hr0 IU'Kro tr"l,'' f th- Tenth
, . vnnitAi, iiiu, AMU
niada. Chihuahua City and Juarea,
have been central figures lit the most
striking und potential chapter of tho
Mexican situation, ara once mora
safely out of Mexico.
Hurvivors of a blood' battle with
a vastly superior force: victims twlca
LiV. i. .. . . .. t the World in independence square!
Ijal y Itcsts on l.o,o. ; , ,.re to(a -A ln(,l U.u fim ni(ftlnf,
Jf true religion rests on love it is j nothing." be said, "until you trans- j
equally true that loyalty rests oh love. lut(, k tntl wha, vou ,,.- I
Iho law 1 am charged under has no Tremendous applause swept over I
parentage in love and chums that al-i.i,,, ,.rowd when the oresi.lent uttered!
legiance of today on the Ignorance und i tm.8C W()n)g i estimable benefit to the 1'nited Stales
blindness of the past, n t) ,tj.Tly silence,! the interruption should, the course of events cause a
. mi, mini; men ill Hum mil ny ( an(J eolllllllled spellklng Oil tllO SU 0- ! ftierul flash bet
my . hvi - in .. iikiuk li 1! JHt I "ri lli ' UUt ICS or Ami l t alls to
tile fears of the dead nast. not hv the Th..ir I'mmin umi i. ihu esm ,,t th.!
World." eminent.
Ideals Plus Action. "l'ie.
continued, "at pres.-' accrue
where it is not onlyiii,,. to
civilization of the twentieths cciuiry
but by the brutality of the fourteenth: I
not even by a statute framed in the i "America," be
language of the land that tries him, lent Is at a point
but edited in the language of an ene- nccecsury to understand
front in Volhynla. the violent buttlts! .wo,,,.iouMiiiMa.Lii..ii,.1.i. j of mobs that stoned them; more than
around Linewka und in the region of j Chicago June Mt The tehison i"11'"" KrlPeil with the feur of exeou-t
Hokul continue unabated, Karl her jTopeka tt Santa Fi nthvav svstcr.i has! !.',"! for 1 "lr ,,ftrt in th 1,0d ""I"'
north, the Germans have follt.Wed , ' m t n 1' f e e, - di,k! ?nd, lastly, objects of. later.
heavy bombardments of various posl- for thc heneflclarles of all , niploves i , i. ny lr I,r,'m1,,,u of 1 lllt-
i lions with infantry ottacks. which r- ln" t," .en-J. W "r U.IIt-1 y" ara It ' 1 t1 they were brought to tho
,.y -o.n.n. uix.iiwi'Lii.iio.iM; .troKi-ad says Were all repulsed. I was unnounccd todav bv !' P itiniev I "orf'1'1! ,'r'm Chlhuatiua City on a
Han Antonio, Tex.. June S9.-Anyl The C.er.imns again have made an ! nri ient 1 ' ''""' Hl'echd train today nd turned over to
delay Incident to new negotiations effort to win Kronen positions west i Meginnlng Julv I, thc company will th?Vl7w Jr- co."lma"(1'r of
with tJeneral furranza will be of )n-: "f hill 804 northwest of Verdun, after to tho beneficiary ot every em-I . , , ,
a ooiiioni-umeiiT extenuing iroin tne plove dying in Us service a sum eiual tiu,'
hill to the Avoeour! wood,s. The cur-,, fivo per cent of his last twelve I w ith them euma lnm II, Spills-
tain of fire of th Kreneh and the flro iii,,mh' .itni-u .,niitit,ii...i i... t., ...,in ! 1'Ury, the Mormon scout wlu KUlded
rn h. . t'nited of their Infantry put down the attack, . h,.k, t ,,r ,.ftti,1..u ....-t l''l't." Charles T. Boyd r.d-hi tlttl"
Ktates und forces of t he tie fucto gov-: however, liitenmt bomhardinents con- f wilh u minimum payment of S " 'i (I and ' ''""""and ovr h trail that led t
tinue northensl of V. rdun uruuml n,UXlm,m ,.,,, ()f ., vesr'u 1 v'arrlzal . Micounter. Hpjllsbury
Kletiry anil the 'au-, Chapllre and nainrv not exceeding 'l onii .spent the high! at the hum of his
uii,v,i. ( ii,-ir, 4.IIW otmutrn
our Ideals.
according to army officers.
Xo similar advantage would
to the Mexican forces, accord-,
those in close touch with the
Cheilitis woods.
The
not
president
stated that the plan
wiiete
Would be tried out for two years, but
! UI..I1I....H.I.. .1 ..t .........
my land; so antbiuated is the law that I but to be readv to put them Into uc- , ,
111 list be sootht tod.-iv t,. slue no Irish- ' tinn ul ,,nv eosl li .,.. thine In1' ' his advantage Would Consist not
man whose of fense is t hat he puts Ire- understand them, but it is another tmy f permitting the release for au
la nd first. thing to make them work. t. i v cj service of the 35,000 regulars
"Loyally is a 'entinient, not a law. ) "Vou cannot understand the people j guarding; ,lu' border, but substitution
It rests on love, not- on rest raint. of the t'nited States without working J of national guurdsmen, hut in the
Tile government of Ireland by Kng- ! for them. I want you to know that 1 I concentration of sup), lies for a big
land rests on restraint, not on law, .'am not interested in fighting for my-; eampuign, the mobilization of truns-
and since it demands no love It can i self hut 1 am inlt rested in fighting for
evoke no loyalty."
Ilritisli Still Itooiliatillng.
i ne iiriusn a lone ineir pan ot tne expressed ln. th-it f.iii,tm,m
front In Krance ami Helglum are keep- t,n!fble the eompany to continue
ing up their heavy bombardment of
icrmitn trenches and sending out
raiding parties who are reported to be
may
It.
quartered at Fort llllss. await! or-
iderg from General Fuiistou at Kan An-
CARMEN STRIKE
PASS CITY;
ithe things 1 believe in. Insofar us
I we are concerned 1 challenge all
coiners."
The prcsidtnl congratulated the As
sociated Advertising clubs for putting
I port facilities and the rehabilitation
of the f Iving service.
General Cell at Kl I'aso reported
j tonight to General Kunslon that the
! twenty-three American prisoners
taken by the Mexicans at Carrizal, had
truth and candor into their business. I been turned over to him.
Wants 1 i-ii 1 1 1 In I'olillos.
"I wish vrrv loneh ' be xji id "I hit t I ,
truth and candor might always be the
detail of the stories
oners, however.
p. .. ui ...... ti "v. n v ; .irilFt , M.LI I 1 1 . 1 ' I il I
standard of politics." iconic,! .Santa Clara.
told
lie gave no
by the prts-
"be.
ale
iron
tall
The Day in Congress
RIOTING EIISUESi
i
Mayor Orders Saloons Closed
to Prevent Further Disor
ders;
Motorman Beaten,
Italians In the Trentiuo region are !
still driving- buck the Austrians and j
recapturing important positions taken ;
from them in the recent Austrian of- -fensive.
The Austrians also haei
lOliened a bin offensive nv-iiliist the i
Trevino bad oc- Austrians on the eastern front around
.Vumloiiilia and Monte San Michcle, .San Martin, t and
'Now you got them," a voice in thai I, us ('luces und was coneeiitrating Termegllano. Here, however, accord- i
crowd shouted, as the applause dlediarge force south of 101 Valle, caused lug to Vienna, the Italians are being j
away, and uguiu tremendous applause no anxiety for the safety of Genera1, partly it pulsed by Austrian counter-'
broke out, Pershing's column. The same was attacks.
"it is most important that since I true of the report that 10.000 Mexican i I
am in a. fighting mood to tell you of troops had been assembled at Gn7,
some of the tilings I believe in. It la man. in close proniixlty to the north
tho duty of every American not to i em section of Pershing's line ot com
munication. It '.his declared by of
ficers here that ample steps had been i
taken to protect the Mile feeding the i iiiiij jui.hn.l intiAi. luiin .mi
Persh'ng expedition. I Washington, June 20, The war lb-
tonlo. Two stores, widely diverging.
I were brought back from their cantiv-
, , .. . ' I Hy by the prisonern. One, told by
lo l earn About Ilt.y.x.ll. 1 Sptllsbury, upholds statements he was
doimr effective Work. Infliollmr Inure : :;: : :.'.",.,..'":,. cm"le witn nittKing Ut Cllinualiua
, ' , " i o en lesuiillMUl HSHIIILt IUB presi- (itV
or tess seriotlM r:iM,l.-ilt ies nn the tier- .1 1.. .... ,, .v,(-y
, : , r , , i to-, 11 10 iiiiorm me senate regaroing:
mans and bringing back prisoners. ,hp rul purpoHea of a commercial i
i ne guns 01 ine nritisii nave none t,euty being negotiated by the entente I
niiicii oam.iMe to Herman ireneues at. Allies, wus adopted lodnv by the sen
many point", according t,, London. lute.
In the Austro-ltalian thcuter, tbei ,
think of himself first, but of his
his country.
Plea for Justice.
"America first means nothing un
less you translate It into deeds." the
president said. "I believe America
Provost Sergeant andir'1,?"."1, "r.?";1" v'Vl- A t.hl!lh yu,"
J IlllJTll. ill- ju i, iimi'iim .1. lil'M .T
I men. It conies high. It is not an
j easy tiling to do, but I believe that at
I w hatever cost we should be Just to
I other people und demand the same
I treatment.
j "I believe in the patriotism anJ lll-
ltiativo of the average man, he ex-
:jWANT $15,000,000 !
FOR AIR SERVICE!
ORPET DEFENSE
TRIES TO PROVE
GIRL'S SUICIDE
jV Va.HtM. JOUftNAl aPSCIAI. LtAffID VIRK,
Kl Paso, June 29. Tom i.ee, mayor
til !:! Pie-n ttiniel-it .iideri-,1 a sa
loons in Kl I'aso closed until further claimed. "Some men say they believe
1.1-ilt.r. tt. 11 innlt f.f utr.tt.i dixim-h- Ul tmti, 100. ran uiey no 1101 ur.i tinii
a nee growing out of a. strike of car
men 011 the local street railay svs
tern. Due hundred und nine of the
US carmen in the city walked out to
day, asking higher waxes, shorter
hours and better working conditions.
Throughout the day tne compun.x j (jff There was
maintained a crippled service by 'n-, lninihter from tht
way. There ure some men
believe in anybody's advk
own."
ft Tallilng I'olKlfM.
This statement caused a laugh In
the crowd and the president smillng
lv remarked: "I am not talking ioll-
another roar of
crowd and the
Itumor.-t from 11lous sources of barlnient. submitted no onleriieiilj, I es-
clishes at (ijlnaga, near Presidio, timates to congress today calling fort
T"X., and other points, reached head-, an appropriation of $15,000,1100 fori
quarters today but found no confirm-1 nrmy and nalloiuil gunrtl air service.)
ution in the reports to General Fun-j ft asked that the money be madc
ston. j available lintuedintcly. ,
The exact lime of the ui rival at , The estimates show nit Increase of
bonier posts of the first national j S-1 z, OOli, 00a over senate figures and
guard organizations could not be JH, 000,000 over the lions'-, military
learned it heatlquarters but some reg-. coiiimittee's plan. The lucreuse. Isl
imeuts are exiecte,i In reach their j due to n signal corps plan to outfit j
destinations tomorrow. jut once twelve national guard aero
plane nqtiadroiis, one to cut h tactical!
division. Kuch siuuidroti would Jiave
tblrly-six Koiitlng and buttle aircraft
in addition to lis motor truck und mo
tor cycle equipment.
I but ''hoi. 'SEARCH FOR SLAYERS '
OF COUPLE CONTINUES
pressing ornce ana unopmon as "no-! president uuicklv added: ".Nor was
tor mm and conductors. Tonigbf aj referring to any individual."
crowd of strike sympathizers gutb-j ye president said that while we
ered on a downtown corner and 1 nave the right to demand justice
pulled the trolley of passing cars from : fnon others, we should always be
the wirea. finally attacking and beat- rPa,jy to giv e Justice to anvone else,
ing a niotormun who had refused to j ' ot Too Proud to l ight,
strike. When a sergeant of t!ie pro-, "i nm ready to fight for that ntsny
ost guard interfered they turned oncost."
hbn, beating him severely. The president said that he did not , families
!V UO.NIN. JOONNtL iriCtAL LIABBP WIMI,
Columbus, X. M., June liroth
ers of William Pinker, the rancher
who with his bride of five months was
murdered on their ranch near 11a
chita, N. M . by bandits recently, to
night were still tombing the territory
In the vicinity of the ranch m ine.
hope of obtaining some trace of the!a,
marauders, other posses hud with-f
drawn.
Several ranchmen on the border
south of Ha- liita have removed their
to Deming and other towns
MILLIONAIRE FOUND
GUILTY OF FRAUD
charging Captain Boyd with
bull headeilncss" In u.dvariciug In the
face of u certain Mexican attack. The)
other, narrated lie fighting men of
the Tenth, declares tho Mexicans to
have been tho aggressors and blames
them for the cmsulnnr slaughter,
Tho latter account la embelllxhed
With charges that have hot Jllthcrta
been brought to lighl.
Snts Wounded Wt'tt IlsNik'liiHl.
Private William P. Gibson declared
that ho was certain that after tho
I Americans hud quit tba field of thn
carrizal battle, tho Mexicans went
over It and killed stiveral Americana
who were wounded but still alive.
Gibson's assertion w's corrobotat
ed by Privates Arclilo Jones and i.u
ther Alexander.
Numerous others of the troopers
claimed they had been robbed of
money and valuables following their
rupture.
An Kpocli-inuJtliig Kvotil.
The arrival of Splllsoury and thu
negro troopers ut the border today
took rank in the annala of Kl Paso
arer. with the recent visit of
tls Scott and (ibregon. TliCM-
j sands gathered in both cities to wit
j ness the event.
In Juarez a big rowd at the Mexl-
!eau Central railroad station viewed
,...M1u..Lilu..i.,Ml ,hB uisembnrklng of the prisoners
Wuukegan, III., June -9. A three-1 from thvlr R,.ial train With curlos-
' -t y t rosK-exainiiiution of William 11. jlty, but gave no outward evidence of
Orpol, university student charged enmity. Now and then as they pro
with the murder of Marlon I-nubert, i rfw,(l frnm the station to the dlsln-
It 1'llllK Ulllt I (VI 11 I. 1 ill"
Chemistry of High School That
Marion Lambert Attended
Testifies Cyanide Was Avail-j.;1;;
able to Her,
having been concluded this afternoon
the defense Immediately set about to
Hhi.w that the UUie Forest high school
girl committed suicide by taking po
tassium of cyanide. Two witnesses
were heard before adjournment on
the point of the availability of the
sKxvm
Agreed to conference report on mil
itary drafting resolution.
Tlejun consideration of fortife nrioiis
act.
Adjourned at 5 : 0 p. m. until 11:00
a. in. Friday.
academy aP-
a p propria -
iioim:
Considered military
Iropriation bill.
Passed military academv
tion bill.
liepresentative liny Introduced bill
to approjiriate $2,000,000 for depend
ent families of national guardsmen.
Military committee favorably re
ported Gardner resolution for inquiry
mto the failure of certain Texas, New
Mexico and Arl.ona national guards
men to respond to the president's call.
Adopted conference report on sun
dry civil Appropriation iill aggregat
ing $I2X,2S9,281.
, Adjourned t 3 4 p. m. until noon
r rday. '
Mayor l.ee an C. K. Kello, 11 for- believe that any small body of men further in the Interior,
mer mayor, rushed to the scene annis,OI)id control the destinies or trie na.
urged the molt "in the name of com-: tion. but he. rather believed thut this
mon deeem y" to disperse. Two com-cnr,trol re."t-t in tilt: hands" of the great
panics of infantry and a nio(ore."cI ! body of thinking and toiling men of
patrol was ordered from Knit Hli" I the 'nation.
to assist tin' provost guard, the iiit-j The president started on the return
journey to Washington at &:4 p. m.
ers finally going to meir homes, wn
the liomina! street car service In ing ,
resumed. I
PERSHING EVACUATES
ANOTHER
tar wonsiN ioimNAL ipickl ut.Ko wet
Winnipeg, Manitoba, June 29.-
Thomas Kelly, millionaire contractor,
used of defrauding the province
Manitoba In the erection of par
liament buildings here, was found
guilty by a Jury in assize court today.
Kelly's (rial lasted ten tluys. The
jury was out three hours.
Sentence was deferred pending up-1""'
plication for 11 lo w trial, stumming
up for the crown, It. A. Honnar charg-
,.,1 tttii Ihn trs.irt.t-n tn.i i,t ti.i.t 1., ..it. .
P0SI flON 'frauded of a total of $1,12,562. Kel
ly, wno was not represenieu oy conn
poison 10 her.
Three witnesses,
special student ut.
commandancla, and, finally to the In
termitional bridge, there werfi scat
tering disapproving- Jeers. In the
main, however, the Mexican populaco
ucttyl with reserve.
Appearance) Cause Ijttmbtcr.
Once the crowd in Juarez acted
with genuine good humor. That was
John H. Vcrjjoe,
the Decrflcbi high!
I when the troopers descended from
the train. Stripped of their uniforms
I nf 1 the buttle of Currliutl, and with
!l-,ii.l..t,nM,in ..ii,,- t.urtlv tmiiln tliA
school, which was attended bv Marion, j m''kv Mu.rH wr decked out in
land U. J. TraMoe, the instructor i:i j striking and motley garb. Their ap
I chemistry, teslit'icd that the cyanide ' pea ra nee brought "forth a chorus of
I was available In liquid form ill the j laughter.
I chemistry laboratory and In crystal. When the formalities of the transfer
i form in the ..took room ml lolninir : hud been ended, and the Americans
that Marlon entered the la-boru-.ni.i relied off the international DriURO
lory on Tuesday, Feb. H, tho duv bo-ito Kl I'aso side, they were greeted ny
fore her death at about. 1 0: :J0 in tho, a Vast roar of cheering from tne
forenoon ami appeared to be ut ork. .thousands gathered there. However,
There was u rule forbidding the nsei'he authorities soon souelched the
of the Kami except at slated periods, demonstration, to the great disappoint-
U, S, AGENT REMOVES
lU'fugces Arrive.
Tf.. June no. Nerly
1 .000
, Galveston,
1 1. und refueees from Mexico, most of
Ittium 4 niui'..'.Mi ittrieeil liei-.i loilav.
MEXICAN FROM JAIL 'The. Pnitml ulls nvy tender Dixie
Ibi-ought T7"i from Tampk-o, the tank
j-tKiimwr Herbert G tt'vlie arrived from
,.Yw..m.M..Lici.i,i.-.r iTamuico wilh ISO, and the steamship j
Tucson, Ariz. June i'!, After Kort Morgan came in from Puerto
mi? i,e,u in uif M.e.ii - ' I Mf xlftt with nineteen Aniencuus on
without proceedings being btoui-'htj
tgaiust him. .1. M, tionxsles, deputy j ' '' '' ,
assessor of trie state oi onoia. -
leo. taken into custody on eomidaint
that he had tried to incite Mexican
on this "ide of the line against Amer
icans, was removed from jail tooay
hv a speeial agent of the federal to-'-eminent.
For what purpose or where
he was remove, to Assistant Uni'.el
States Attorney Samuel U Ptte in
clined to say. saving that he had ade
Otiate reason for not discussing tho
matter. -
Hold "Ileal" Proaredness Meeting.
Washington, June 2!) -- Plans for a
country-wide campaign among labor
and trrarige organizations to obtain ex.-
inressions from candidate for federal
officeR of every political party on
economic and social problems, were
discussed hero today at a "conference
on real preparedness" attended by a
number of prominent advocates of so
cial and economic, reforms.
lay uosttiNO jounNoi. kcil Limn wtl
Chihuahua City, Mexico, June 2S.
The Ami rieat" expeditionary force
has evacuated San P.iuna. Ventura,
just north of Kl Valle, wheh is 1100
miles south of the border, and is push
ing north, according to repot ts today
lo General Trevino.
The former Vililsta, Gen. Jesus M,
lilos. who has been operating in
southern Chihuahua, has surrendered
I wilh his men and arms lo Colonel
j.uazua. nuiiesty being granted the
j entire command, titneriil Trevino an
I nouticed.
oiniiilUeil to Inline Asylum.
liiiblin. June 2't (Via London )
Capt. f'towep Volihurst, who was
found "KUilty, but insane," at his trial
on the charge of shooting F. Sheeny
Skeffington, editor of the Irih Citl
xen, during the recent rebellion, has
been ordered committed to an Insti
tution fcr the Insane, sayn an official
announcement today.
set, in a statement to the Jury pleaded " he stock room In which ti full com-'tnent of the. participants, who hail
thnf be had been ne rseciilnrt bv the piemen! of acids salts served also ns'stood guard from sun-up until S
present government. j the instructor'" private laboratory, d- 'o'clock In the afternoon to welcome
I Joined the class room. A box eon-ithe returning trooper.
fMRRI7A! HPRO ta!ulng lumps of potassium i-yanlde' Morcy to Visit Ills Men.
WMtlinL. ncnu was on it low shelf, the third article J One of the features of the day, de-
RFIOINI 9P0! lpi " " r,'onl tlm door, according to Mr. , velopments was the arrival here of
. r V. wUOUj Tragoe. tin a class room shelf, plahi-jCapt, Lewis S. Alorcy, for troattnrnt
" ' ' " j Iv marked, was a bottle enntiiinlnt; the at tli Fort flliss hospital of Iho wound
m mo.iin jojt i.ieii LitoD j poison In solution. Tile itinlritcior did he received at CarruHL only an hour
Kl Paso, Tex., June 2). ( ,'s ptuin uot recall Hint either bad been ' used 1 before thic prisoners were released,
f ewis H. Morey, hero of Cantab ar-ln class work. i Captain Morey's coming wus almcat
rivcl here thia afternoon and wus met
by his wife. j
The captain registered ut a bot'lj
'preparatory to going to the Fort
Pliss hospital lo have his wound treat-j
od. j
Captain M,,iey said that just usttldi
prisoners from Chihuahua were!
brought over he would arrange to see,
them.
' isn't It fine that I arrive Just as
my hovs return?" he asked.
Fifteen of the negroes belonged to
Troop K, which Captain Morey com
manded, i
ANTI-MILITARISTS URGE
'lost sight of In the other event. To-
.nitrht. ho arrange,) to visit the dusky
Soldiers ut. Fort Plies. Fifteen ot
WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS .fUr K troBP' "r undcr
s(-heluled to arrive in Juarex early
ut nDiaiM iouhu meii uuu imi ithls morning, the special train dole
Washington, June. 2. A resolution ignted by Oen. Jacinto Trevino at Chi-
urging withdrawal of American troops
from Mexico and acceptance of I.atln
Anierican mediation In the present
crisis was left at the white house to
day by representatives of the New
York branch of the American t'nion
oaalnst Militarism.
huahua Cit' to carry th twenty-four
prisoner to th border. In response to
President Wilson's jK-remptory de.
mand, did not pull Into Juarei until
noon.
Tho
lKlnrtiin Is Swret. -
departure was .made In
tho
