Jaspek, Indiana, Friday, JUNE 30, 1916,
y OL. 58.
No, 41.
.HT '1 CJ
OUR COUNT
PRIDE
I .11 Äi-jiS-V
Prohibition Efficiency Arguments Based
Upon Misleading Experiments
Leaders of the "dry" movement, who have so far failed to
establish even a slight connection between their prohibition
theory and temperance, have recently seized upon a so-called
efficiency argument to further their fanatical propaganda. Alco
hol even in minute quantities, they declare, injures man's
mental and physical efficiency. And in support of this assertion
they bring forth a quasi-scientific array of information dealing
with certain incomplete and misleading experiments.
This practice of bolstering up the prohibition cause with such
;Xperiments wa9 recectly exposed in an article by John Koren
the Atlantic Monthly. Mr. Koren was a member of the
mous Committee of Fifty organized some years ago to make
careful study of the liquor problem. In this work he was
ociated with such men as Hon. Seih Low, Charles W. Eliot
Harvard, Charles J. Bonaparte, Rev. Washington Gladden
d others. Mr. Koren's reports of the investigations conducted
y that committee must be accepted as the truthful conclusions
fa body of men and an individual interested in the subject
rom a standpoint of the public welfare only.
In his recent article in the Atlantic Monthly Mr. Koren dis
cusses the efficiency phase of the drink question, in part, as
bllows:
Within recent years numerous experiments have been under-
aken, the results of which have gained wide currency as proving
hat even a moderate use of alcohol may have, and generally
as, a harmful effect. These experiments relate chiefly to the
action of moderate doses of alcohol upon psychic functions and
to some extent on muscular functions. They are largely the
work of Kraepelin and his disciples. These scientists do not
themselves asiume to have reached final conclusions on many
essential points, and their evidence is by no means harmonious.
ut in the present-day discussion of the alcohol question so mucb
mphasis has been placed upon the results of these experiment
s a basis of scientific temperance teaching, that it is in place to
xaiwme their bearings -aJittle more-closely without, however,
attempting to account for single experiments which would in
volve too much detail.
"In general, it has been attempted to show the possibly in
jurious effects of alcohol: On the ability to add numbers; on
memory; on the perceptive power; on time reaction (the time
elapsing before response is made to a given signal); on the ability
ito distinguish signals; on the power of understanding.
Evidently, an inquiry into the possible injurious effects of
lcohol intended to illustrate conditions in every-day life must
elude consideration of persons who are accustomed to the use
f alcohol, for they, and not the abstainers, are in need of guid-
nce. Unfortunately, many of the experiments were made on
ersons wholly unaccustomed to the use of spirituous drinks: but
f one wishes to reach a satisfactory conclusion in regard to their
ad effects, this method is just as impossible as it would be to
etcrmine the injury from using tobaeco simply by setting persons
holly unaccustomed to it to the task of smoking cigars.
Ithough this line of reasoning is so self-evident, it is a fact that
khe great majority of experiments in question were made ort
ersons who for some time had been total abstainers.
"On the whole, it may be said that the experiments on persons
ivho had been accustomed to the regular use oLalcohol gave
suits less markedly unfavorable to drink than the others. If it
e true that also in these cases the injurious, although less pro-
lounced, effect of alcohol was traceable, it must be remembered
hat also these experiments were not conducted under conditions
orresponding to those ordinarily governing a moderate use of
ustomary alcoholic beverages. When the purpose is to find
:itby me:ms of an experiment on human material what the
dinary effect of the moderate use of alcohol is, it verges upon
e absurd to allow the drink to be taken on an empty stomach,
rin a highly concentrated form, or to allow the subjects of the
ppenment to gulp it down at once. Such procedure affords
e Dt. t possible conditions for illustrating the harmful effects of
lcohol en the organism, for it enters most rapidly into the
ircuiation of the blood when taken on an empty stomach or
i once vni in an undiluted form. In every-day life, moderate
isers invariably lake their drinks in a diluted form, and with
xui, 'uerefore the same detrimental effects do not occur as when
1' "oi is used without food, perhaps in the middle of the fore
go . or afternoon. "
This advertisement authorized by
frj? the Indiana Brewers Association.
Independence, Strength and Beauty
As mm fm---- K wvvtfh'
Ja ÄfeÄ-. JBF
y y ' !
" rt-fftj.'.v-hK :yA:i.V-
rPlj.
Cro vma olp
hA&d Saud
Colonel denni&sftiHesl
7C WwTMte f
'W W s '
(load at seventy (hoy ought to be.
What made it hurt so at this time
was thafc the governor had promised
to attend the celebration, and the af
fair was to be somewhat bigger than
usual. For Colonel Dennio to have
'no hand in the exercises at all would letters
and said "Amen" to General Grant's
noble advice "Let us have peace!"
Colonel Dennia was personally ac
quainted with the governor, and had
been one of his stanchest supporters.
He recalled that he had many kindly
Surely Surely He Knew That Voice!
not down on the program because they
didn't know whether or not he would
get in.
Wheal Sever began talking, Colonel
Dennie moved farther back among the
trees, because the Yankee's voice irri
tated him.
The people cheered enthusiastically
when the young man, who had just
arrived, arose to speak.
"I thank God that I live in a coun
try where I cannot be driven to war
at the behest of any kkig or omperor,
but in a country which, when its honor
is in question, needs no order of mon
arch to rally its sons to its support"
Surely surely he knew that voice!
Why, it was from a speech Colonel
Dennie had once made himself!
The old man who had lived too long
wiped his specs and began edging up
closer and closer, and peering through
W crowd. "Why bless my soul! is
it "-Can it be"
Then when a mighty cheer broke
loose he joniwü in:
him the seal of a
be to place upon
man forgotten.
ii who ti lui tu . iiifi LiiuuKi-U tu il limn J
who had always cherished an abiding
affection for his people. "His" peo
ple! Ah! They were his no longer;
they would have none of him. To
them he was as so much old junk
ready for the heap.
Maybe the fact that Joe Sever was
running things this year had some-
fo GTiS (5o (jr
r o
Good humor and genros-
ity carry the day with the
popular heart all the world
w v vj. .
The BeaiEdPoafiie PrintoAim, TfcTJgr, Ind. '
vafl RsSJO cS cS, C5 V? - JJv GS: imfcP 'ß tS 3)
o
OL. RICHARD
DENNIE was hurt
beyond the power
of words. He had
been deliberately
snubbed by the
Starcliff Fourth of
July committee. It
wouldn't have cut
so deep had he
been 'consulted as
to some arrange
ment of the pro
gram, or request
ed to take a seat
on tho platform.
Certainly ho would not go there un
less invited. That he wasn't asked to
"make- a few remarks to the crowd"
was a bit unusual, but he wouldn't
havo minded that had the committer
shown some consciousness that he
was on earth. He knew tho mem
bers had been in earnest consultation
with the circuit judge and some of
the leading lawyers many times, but
not a word of advice or suggestion
had any of them sought from him.
The colonel recalled that as a young
man ho was in demand for Fourth of
July speeches, and at other occasions
While not boasting, ho felt quito cer
tain his remarks had been apprn i
nted. From his youth on he had alwav
responded to the call when Starcli."
required speaking or any other kir :
of tnlpnt. When he was a member r
conjrrt-ss ho had made addresses i.
every county in the district man;
times, and tho people seemed delight
ed to arrange dates Sor him.
Colonel Dennio reflected that he
was close to seventy-five, and that
maybe his people thought he had lived
years too long, going on tho Biblical
limit. True, his head was clear and
he was physically fit, but tho world
had no use for old men. he bitterly
considarcd; it thinks if they are not
thing to do with it.
cuting attorney of
had
Sever was prose
tho county, and
He
c ongressional aspirations.
was a tail, aggressive fellow, smart as j
a whip, but a Yankee! That is, hej
was from "Down East" somewhere.
And Colonel Dennie was a "rebel" of
the fighting type Rut out hero in tho
free western air men had long since
"Hurrah for you, Dickey boy!" he
cried, and threw his old straw hat so
high in the air that he never got it
back.
"I'll leave it to my dad there." said
the young man, pointing to Colonel
Dennie, "if, should this nation ever be
assailed, the old men who were once
called 'rebels,' and their sons, would
not be among the first to fly to arms
in its defense!"
"Right you are, Dickey boy!" shout
ed tho old "rcber "Yaaih Yaaaaa
aihh! Yaaaaih!"
Dick Dennie, junior, had been study-
from the commonwealth's m law with a firm in tho metronolfs
chief magistrate, thanking him for Iiis and had come home unannounced as a
services. The governor, he knew,! surprise to his parents,
would be a little astonished to learn! By this time Colonel Dennio had
that his old friends had not even t forgotten all about the gloomy roflec-
bcen asked up on the grandstand. JoeUions of the morning in the triumph
Sever would be there wearing a his son was making, and he stood
j there smiling and clapping his hands,
the ha-ppiest man on the grounds. He
was living now in tho glory of his off
spring, with never a thought of tho
indifference manifested toward him
self until
"Colonel, where on earth have you
been? I've looked for you every
where!" Colbnel Dennie stared 'in amaze
ment at the raw-boned Joe Sever,
who had come out of the crowd and
that
badge, ami iooking important;
was his way. Most likely it was
through jealousy he had ignored the
at
wr,
W
governor's old friend at Starcliff. All
rig'U. Colonel Dennio was not the
nnrt of man to run after anybody! If
the executive met him he would glad
ly shak hands and greet him warm
ly, but he would not seek him out.
Ho lis: ri as much self-pride as if he
were governor himself.
It was a beaut ful day, and people; was holdinff him by thc arm
'rom the country began arriving early. ..j have boen in town a
Hvery train brought additions to the plied tho colonel s lv
iiowu. tnc sireeis were aoiaze vun
day," re-
I "Well, I couldn't find you. Come up
I on the platform with me. I want you
to introduce the governor to these
people. He's been asking about you
ever since he came to town." Penn
sylvania Grit.
THAT PROVES) "rToThiftG.
fToiKua X-Kayt Democrat.
"Used neither tobacco nor liquor
is dead," says the headline in one of
th daily papers. That proves noth
ing. Some who have used both for
years are dead.
Reflected That He Was Close to Seventy-Five.
burled the rifle, and taken up with thl
tools of trade. However, he reasoned,
a Yankee never forgets, and now that
one was in the saddle he would ride
rido roughshod over old "rebels" who
had fought for a principle, and when
licked had manful? acknowledged it
"7
flairs and bunting and noise with brass
band from all the towns in tho couu
ly. Joe Sever rode about on horse
back, delivering orders IPo sone
great fiHd marshal, the busiest and
most important man in town.
There was a parade out to the
grove where tho exercises were to
he held. Joe Sever rode at the head,
of course. Then came a bn.ss bard
followed by an open carriage with the
governor and some, local dignitaries.
Colonel Dennie recalled many times
when he had been in that glittering !
carriage dawn by Liveryman Jones'! WE'LL VOLUNTEER, TOO.
fine black horses. But that was long ... ,.
. 0 IlndianaiKtlis Star 1
ppro. Today 'he was standing on the; nthinfr aftrn, a. t. rn .
outskirts oYfthft crowd wearing an rjr. ..dry.. volnawer8 who are M!ling m gQ
straw ha'ah(L a patched alpaca coat.! out and samPle eridBnce at times
Xobody paid any attention, to him. wllRn lhe SftlooüS ßre wPPoead to be
Behind the carriage ' marched the-8?111
local fraternal orders, tlio National-j ,
Guards and a lot of school children t
carrying small flags.
Arriving at the grounds, one of the
bands played "Tho Star Spangled Ban-
iu: and a medley, a httie girl in, States feat year was seven and a half
unite read tho Declaration of Inde-: million" gallons in excess of tho year
prmlonco and a glee club sang a soag. ; before. Prohibition prohibits? Oh,
and was encored several times. 'yes!
The chairs on tlio grandstand wero
all occupied by speakers or distin
guished guests.
Joe Sever, who was always in evi
dence, got up and made some long
winded announcements about the fire
works and music ii? the evening, and
rhen said he had the pleasuro of in
troducing a young man who had Just
rem? in on thp ran jind wjq Hvas
THIS IS SARCASM.
fSan Francisco News-Letter.
Despite the fact that states are dry,
AW, BILL, IT AIN'T TRUE?
flinHklyn Eaglo.
Everybody else having thrown cold
water on Bryan - the Prohibitionists
talk about picking him to run for
President on their ticket. One can't
be wholly friendless in a normally
sympathetic world.
y tu. t
