Set , o
I Iron County Record. I
JS VVITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." ,
1R ' ,? VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 191G. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 29. H
i . ' IRE ABOUT
"' PUBLIC UTILITIES
VffR "JEf V. S. Pcct of Salt Lake Makes
wM Reply to Article by Senator
It ; ' W. W. Seegmiller.
If" ENDORSES OUR STAND
E . ON SUGAR QUESTION
P Explains His Presence in the Lobby of
Last Legislature and Believes All
'Corporations Should be Included.
, k Editor Iron County Record, Dear
Jm Sir. Your excellent editorial on "The
pfy Price of Sugar" in Tho Record of May
. til 2Cth and Mr. W. W. Soegmiller's po-
i ' wR' litical answer to my article on a "Pub-
W lie Utility Commission" will be my
M theme for this week's Record. First:
; t I will answer Mr. Secgmiller's last
paragraph, because it is a personaVat-
h . tack on my integrity. Mr. Seegmiller
' f asks:
i I "I should like, nlao, to nnk Mr. I'col
h . wliy ho 1h bo actively opposing a jiubin-
K utllltleR commission. Is It because of
I IiIh lovo lor tho public, becnUBe of hln
p Krent Interest In tllelr welfare? or coulil
I It bo ponBlblo thnt ho Ik employed by
If nonio corporntlon? I roineniber very iliB-
S tlnctly thnt ho spent many dny and
f& weeks 'In the Itmt IcKlilaturo lobbying n-
a Kalnnt tho public utilities bill. Wan Oil
B simply becnuso without remuneration ho
m wan wllllni? to work for tho best Intercuts
P of the people, or was he employed b
E somebody to do what he could itRtilnM
If tho bill? Naturally, wo look to the mo-
L . tlve.tand Ififr. Pcct would, he could eas
V lly net our minds at reBt on thlB point'
I Mr. Seegmiller very well knew, or
! else he is very forgetful, that I spent
P some time in the last legislature get-
g- ting the "Honest Advertising Bill"
I passed. I am a member of the Salt
fc Lake Advertising Club and was on a
W,-' committee along with Mr. Ray Wittern
lLr . anl Mr. Malcom McAllister to urge
iwau the legislature to pass such a bill. I
'jfitSL talked with nearly every member of
3g,$ both houses, including Mr. Seegmiller.
IK;- I also gave Mr. Seegmiller a copy of
ra1,;, the bill we desired to have passed.
528JL The Honest Advertising bill was
$! passed by both houses but it was eith
AltSL cr 'ost or 8toon i" K'nPT from, the
grgywy ,. v , . Senate 'to tho Govornor'adjit never
W J that the PubHc Uttlfty bill came be-
g fore the legislature mid as I had been
T . Industrial agent for Jhe Novada-Cali-
. fornia and Oregon railroad, I knew of
M the evil effects and that both the rail-
roads and tho other public utilities
mfc - ' " would bo imposed upon'and Handi
Wpr capped by the public utility commis
m, sion, unless they used the "Sunny
H brook "ponies and Royal Havana fil
Bt lers" and I will further add the "long
r ! green." If space would permit I would
W. give specific instances. I could tell
8; how tho new Pine Creek, Oregon, de
Bj pot was moved one-half mile further
. Hff ' : from the city on 40 acres of land that
'- ' the president of the railroad owned,
r ' against the protest of all the residents
;. .of that city to tho public utility com-
,v mission, and I further know that 40
$ " acres of land was bought for $125 per
f acre and that the president of that
railroad sold business lots 25x140 feet
: near tho depot for $500 each.
U I know that the Pensylvania rail-
tl' road practically controls that state
I and that Southern Pacific Company
- ' has equally as strong a hold in Call-
, fornia. in spite of their public utility
i commissions. I have never heard of
jjW a single instanco whore the utility
J5?fc commission of California has done one
f thing against the wishes of tho South-
J " ern Pacific company, and I know that
5 K the commission has handicapped the
45 t smaller roads of that, state and that
the commission has been a general
' detriment to tho common people.
.! b The Prlce of SuKnr Editorial.
''Sk! I would advise every reader of The
M fc. Record to read again tho editorial in
j 7 that paper. of May 2Gth, for it was
' ' that very thought that made me take
'it 'an interest in thoEvans bill at our
,', last legislature.
It was during a committee debate
4, P on that bill that I asked its support
ers if they would be willing to add to
' , it all corporations chartered in our
v . ' atatc, which wQuld include the sugar
j companies, tho creamery trust, the
i ' ' v Master Plumbors truBt. the Salt Lake
f I ' City Produce Commission association,
J the Utah Butchers and Grocers trust,
the Utah Copper Corporation, th6 Salt
trust, tho Utah Coal combination, etc.
The folllwing as near as I can re-
; member is what I said to that com-
v i ' mittee:
"If you nro sroInK to control tho rali-
V, roads and public utilities of Utah, why
,- not extend that authority to tho chartered
utock corporations ilolnir business In this
' stato. Such' corporations are protected
'" by tho etato to tho extent that the atoc
, .i holders aro not Individually responsible
for tho debts tho corporations Incur.
"With such authority InvestlBnto tho
, ', , price of coal In Utah from tho tlmo It
. , ' leaves tho mlno until It gets Into tho con-
' y sinner's coal bin. Tho railroad freight on
, . coal from tho nearest mlno, 111 miles
, nway, Is $1.60 per ton. To icet that coal
--. j, from tho car to your coal bin, although
JSrli., It may not bo twenty rods away. Is J1.7i.
,Ws If tho Kvans bill Is Intended to bo honest
' ''$' and fair, why not empower It to Investi
gate the Salt Lake Coal trust and other
corporations hero? "When sugar that Is
made In Utah, can Jump up fl.OO per
sack In a single night and nearly 2.00
' in flvo days, when there has boon no
1 change In tho price of boots that It Is
I made of, or tho wages In tho field or
1 factory, or tho frolght rotes, why not. in
I tho namo of all thitt Is honest and fair.
1 amend tho Evans Mil so that It can hold
I down tho sugar prlco flylnir machine? '
1 ' Tift farmer has .no rights that, the
I . " creanlery compnnios are louud W re-
I
spoct; thoy not only set the price of
milk that they buy of tho farmer, but
they also tell him what ho will have
to pny for crenmcry butter; they get
him both coming and going.
Last fall apples were 50 cents per
bushel in Utn.li orchards and $1.50 on
the Salt Lake .market. Tomatoes were
?12.00 to 15.00 n ton at the canner
ies and from 3 to 5 cents per pound
on tho Salt Lako market or an in
crease of over 500 per cent.
Copper has increased in price over
100 per cent during the last year and
yet wages for the employees only a
bout 15 per cent.
When I put most of tho nbovo facts
to thc'riend8 of the Evans bill they
wore nslfcnished to think that anyone
would have the audacity to suggest
any investigation of Utah's private
monopolies and "gentlcmens agree
ments." Mr. Seegmiller states that ho has
become converted to a public utility
commissibn. Would ho support a bill
that would ( include "Utah corpora
tions," especially those companies that
inflate thjb prices of tho necessities of
life 'that the common people have to
buy? If he is like the friends of the
Evans bill he could not.
Mr. Seegmiller further states:
"Without quoting llgMres, I Invito your
attention to tho expense, of our state gov
ernment, and itsk you to look In the ses
sion laws of tho Inst legislature and Fee
what tho Governor's office nlono Is cost
ing us."
And yet with the above complaint
Mr. Seegmiller is willing to add an
other attachment to Utah's extrava
gance, and political machine for more
graft and expense.
The County Commissioners of Snlt
Lake county have taken control of
her public utilities without extra ex
pense. Now why should tho State
Legislature turn their power and tho
power of the Attorney General, to a
political machine nt great expense to
the State? Yours truly,
V. S. PEET,
Sale Lake City, Utah, Juno 23, 191G.
BOY KILLED WHEN
HIS SADDLE TURNS
Iuuiah Uric Victim of Fatal Accident
In Cedar Canyon Last Sunday
Afternoon at 4 O'clock.
A most distressing accident occurred
in tno Cedar canyon last Sunday af
ternoon at about 4 o'clock, which cost
13 year old Isaiah Urie, youngest
child of Mr. and Mrs.. Thomas Urie,
The following account of the. un
fortunate affair Is based .'on; informa
tion obtained from the boy's father,
who, as &lso Mrs. Urie, is heart-broken
over the affair.
The family aro dairying at their
ranch in the canyon, and Isaiah and
his sister Martha, 15 years old, start
ed to rido from their ranch to the
ranch of Mrs. Mary Gower, a little
more than two miles distant.
In climbing the hills Isaiah noticed
that his saddle was slipping back, the
cinches being rather loose, and tried
to draw the saddle forward without
dismounting. In doing .so, the saddle
turned, and the boy's foot becoming
fast in tho stirrup, he was swung
'round and 'round by tho horse, his
head and body being battered by the
rocks and stumps, it being a very
rough spot where tho accident oc
curred. In the mean time the sister
wns making frantic efforts to catch
the horse by the bits and hold it. In
a final effort to sieze the reins, the
horse was caused to shy and the boy's
foot was released, but not until ho
had been done to death by the cruel
rocks and stumps.
Martha made him as comfortable
as posible and then rodo to the Gower
ranch for assistance as speedily as
possible Mrs. Gower responded, and
leaving the injured boy in her charge
tho aister rode back to the Urie ranch
and informed her parents of what had
occurred. It wns almost unnecessary
for her to speak .when she entered
tho door pale faced and wild oyed.
Tho boy's father had seen tho wholo
occurrence in a vivid dream the night
before. He sprang into the saddlothat
the girl had just vacated and hastened
to tho scene of tho accident, but was
too lato to see his boy alive. The end
came just a few minutes before ho
arrived, but tho boy never regained
consciousness after tho accident.
The father carried tho limp and life
less litthe form to tho ranch of David
Hnight and prepared tho remains for
bringing to J,own, where thoy arrived
tho same evening.
The funeral services were held in
tho tabornaclo Tuesday afternoon, tho
speakers being John Parry, L. W.
Jones and Bishop A. G. Mntheson.
Cedar's Building Boom.
A stranger passing through Main
street in Cedar City these days will
observe as much building in progress
ub is usually apparent in a town of
two or three times our population,
Two large brick garages aro in courso
of erection, ono of which is to cost
approximately $10,000 and include a
home for the local steam laundry: the
other is to coBt ?6,000 and will be a
modern hospital for sick und tired
automobiles in every respect. Farther
up. the. street the Cedar Sheep Asso
ciation is razing its old bulldingu und
preparing for the orection of a ?25,000
addition to the building now occupied.
Tho Cedars Hotel is also demolishing
tho old building at tho north of tho
hotel proper and preparing to oroct a
new $12,000 addition. These, with a
number of now und modern homes,
constitute a building prograjn approx
imating 100,000 for Cedar City the
prosont year.
v
POET E. C. COX ' "
flHGS MENGE
Death Relieves Him From Pain
ful and Hopeless Rod
of Suffering
SPLENDID TYPE OF MAN
UNIVERSALLY RESPECTED
Had Eventful Cnrcer, Making His
Own Way iu the World From
IUb Seventh Year.
GONE TO HIS REST.
Cioiio to his rest In yonder silent tomb;
No more oppressed with earthly caro and
gloom.
Oono from the scenes of mingled Joy and
strife,
That mako tho sum of this our' moi tal
life.
Gono from tho dear ones ho most chor-
lshcd hero;
His home, his fi lends and nil that lift.
held dear,
To Bleep In peace, boyond all doubt and
dread.
Until tho grave yields Its Illustrious dead.
Gono through tho mystic depths that
bound life's span
And earth has lost a true and honest man.
Aye, ono of nature's noblemen was he,
Of sterling worth and strict Integrity:
Who trod tho path of duty with his might.
For God hod glvon him to seek tho light.
Devoted, true, o'er faithful to tho end:
Clrtcvo not that lie has left this sphere oi
pain,
A loving husband, father, brother, friend.
Your present loirs Is his eternal gain.
For now ho dwells In nmnshlons bright
and fair:
Heaping tho treasures ho has laid up
mere.
And when your earthly pilgrimage Is o'er,
"What ecstacy to greet him on that shore,
Wliero llfo Is endless, and whero nil Is Jo
And hnpplucss unmfnglcd with alloy.
E. C. COX.
The above could have been written
for himself, instead of a friend.
After five monthR of severe ant'
hopeless suffering from the effects of
a paralytic stroke, death last Saturday
relieved the afflicted soul of E. C. Cox.
Cedar City's poetic genius and ono of
the best loved and most estimable
characters that the place held.
The funeral services were held in
the "tabernacle Sunday afternoon at
the close of the regular sacramental
services, tho mecting.bcing addressed
TTynflaetiobnWfanTBrtfenvT
Lunt, Dr. M. J. Macfarlane and Bishop
A. G. Matheson. All spoko of the
honesty,' sociability, good character
and worthy characteristics of the de
ceased. The choir rendered appropri
ate music, und a beautiful duct was
sung by Helen Nelson and Urunn
Jones.
Tho floral decorations, of which in
life the departed was a great admirer,
were many and profuse. The attend
ance was large, and a long procession
followed the remnins to their last rest
ing place.
While deceased lived to reasonably
ripe oia age, ueing vh years oia, nis
mind was bright and active up to the
time that the affliction fell upon him,
and apparently he had many years
still to live. Some of his more recent
poetical writings were among his best.
He bore a polish and refinement not
withstanding he had been in humble
circumstances tho greater part of his
life which proclaimed him as one of
natures noblemen. His cheerful dis
position and his sincere concern for
his fellows, made his society welcome
and endeared him to all who had the
Elcnsure of his acquaintance. He will
o keenly missed by tho community.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
Edwin Charles Cox, son of Abraham
and Frances Beard Cox, was born May
21, 1838, at Sommersetshirc, England.
At tho early age of seven years he
went out as page boy to Sir Edward
Strode, ono of tho barrons of England.
From the environment of this plnco
he acquired most of his early educa
tion, and being among the titled and
what is known as tho gentry, he
learned much of tho grace and refine
ment of the higher circles of English
society. When he became of an age
to learn a trade ho wont as an appren
tice to a landscape gardner at .the
samo place. After completing his ap
prenticeship he accepted a position as
landscape gardner at tho Watloy Rec
tory, whero he remained for some
years as gardner. From there ho
went to work in the coal and iron
district of Wales,' where ho heard
the gospel nnd wns baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Ho remained seven years in
Wales, learned to read, write and
speak the Welch language and for
several years was secretary of the
mission there. While in this work" ho
became acquainted with Richard
Palmer, who was there as a mission
ary, From tho first ho was an earn
est worker in tho cause ho )iad em
braced. Having acquired a good in
sight into music from Miss Strode, tho
oh) Barron's sister, ho accompanied
the missionaries to assist them with
the singing and lated did missionary
work himsolf, suffering persecution
nnd mob violence for tho gospel's
sake.
After leaving Wales ho again' took
a position as gardner ut ono of the
large estates in London. Thero he
met Mary E. Reid, who was cook at
tho samo place and who afterwards
became his wife. At tho time of their
marriage (Juno 8, 1805) Mary did not
belong to tho Latter-day Saint church,
but through his earnestness and zeal
she was soon converted and baptized.
In tho spring of '09 they set sail for
P H
!iBij " tc V
PS? rr&W'ITwS
America, landing at Long Island ir
June. Ho secured a position us gard
ener nnd remained in the vicinity of
New York for five years, (hen contin
ued on to Utah, the homo of his relig
ion.
Arriving at Cedar City in tho fal
of '74 they went to live with his oW
friend, Richard Palmer. Tho market
for garden produco In Cedar City-war
at tllat time very limited, so ho took
up carpentry with his brother Sam
who hud immigrated with him. He
early organized a gardncrs club, but
owing to lack of market it met with
but little success. Ho was battered
from pillar to post, working nt all
ports of things, us most people of the
West did. In January, 1800, his wife
died, leaving him with 8 of the nine
children that had como to them. The
following year his oldest child, Mrs.
Joseph S. Smith, was killed In an ac
cident on tho mountain road.
In 1898 he went enst to visit rela
tlves and hunt up genealogy nnd ir
October of tho same year wns marrier
to Julia A. Seaman of Sabuln, lown
Together they made several visits tr
his family in Cedar City, and in 190P
he again made his home here. At the
uce of 70 years he began the erection
of their homo, which he himself hn
built and finished since, having also
made several pieces of furniture.
All through his life he has taken
pleasure in writing poems, a grcnt
many of which havo been published.
January 24 of tho present year,
while sitting at his tablo nfter din
irer,she atssamitten-wlth1? paralysis,
-omplctoly disabling his left side
From then until tho time of his death
on Juno 24th, ho endured great pair
and suffering. However, nt tho lnr'
he passed uway very quietly, with hi
wife and five of his children at hi
bedside. He leaves, besides his faith
ful and devoted wife, the followinc
named children: Mrs. Nelly Smith.
Evornrd A. Cox, Mrs. OrsDn F. Tyler
of Thatcher, Arizonn, Mrs. Robert
Mumford. Edwin R. Cox, Dr. W. C
Cox of St. George nnd Mrs. Tipton
Ahlstrom, 34 grandchildren and fl
great-grandchildren.
SENATOR SEEGMILLER
CONGRATULATES US,
Approves the Course of The Record in
"Defending the People Against
Their Exploiters."
The following letter 'from Senator
Seegmiller of this district is very
much appreciated because it comes
from a man who has personally shown
himself to be a true and loyal friend
to tho people he was chosen to repr
sent, and the more so because it came
unsolicited from him:
Knnab, Utah, June 2G, 191G.
Mr. Chharles S. Wilkinson, Editor
Iron County Record, Cedar City, Utah.
Dear Sir. I havo been watching your
attitude on stato politics, prohibition,
Utah-Idaho Sugar Company, the Dos
eret News, public, utilities, and in fact
all things progressive and just; and I
wish sincerely to congratulate you
upon your capable and fearless de
fense of tho people against their ex
ploiters. Your attitude on tho Deseret News
is just and true. I hope the time will
como when so many of the county pa
pers will handle tho vital issues of
this stato In a clean and fearless way
that the dailies will bo compelled to
fall in line; for after all our county
papers represent more territory, If
not more people, than do our dailies.
Wishing you continued succccss in
your worthy undertaking, I am,
Yours sincerely,
WM. W. SEEGMILLER.
Why enn't tho merchants of Utah,
at least in those towns where sugar
factories are not located, put n bari on
tho Utah and Idaho product and in
sist on pnno sugor only Until the price
is made as low, at least, as it is in
eastern cities 7 This would rob tho
local companies qf ta "velvet" the"
aro fleecing from the homo peoplo";
andhey would very poon find a way
of appenllng to tho trust at Now York
for a more favorable price for local
consumers. If this does not effect n
reformation, then wo vould advise
substituting honey, molasso3 or sach
nrine for sugar until tho trust is com
pelled to give us n fair deal,
-
STATE-WIDE
raiiiN
NcphiPapcr Reviews History of
Struggle to Make Utah '
a Dry State. ,
SAYS LOCAL OPTION
IS ONLY A "JOKER."
Clnlms Majority of Utah People Wnnt
State-wide Prohibition, and Says,
"Let the People Rule."
(Nophi City News.)
Several years ago a reform wave
nnsscd over the Stato of Utah. Tho
main object sought was the eliminat
ing and abolishing of tho liquor traffic
from our midst. After much tribuln
Mon. in which long Bosslons of tho
T.e9-islnture wore, consumed, the pres
ent local ontlon law was tho result.
Under this law tho people of tho
-itios nnd tho smnllnr places In tho
-ountics were mndo Into voting
'nits, nnd expressed their will through
Mio ballot box, whether thoso units in
which they resided should be dry or
wot. '
Now this scemod a fair proposition
it the time, as every city that voted
for dry conditions assumed that it
would be impoRsibJe to ship nny of tho
wet goods into their midst, a conclus
'on which they had every right to as
sume. But right here thoy wore duo for
n nwakonintr, for thoy found to their
sorrow thnt it was just ns easy to tret
Soozc in as it was under tho salon
svstem, and a great deal cheaper, nnd
whero it had been purchnsed bv tho
bottle, t was now being boucht by
'ho barrel. Strenuous efforts woro
nndo bv the locnl officers to put down
his shipping of tho nmber fluil Into
our drv cities, but the powers thnt bo
"uled that under certain restrictions
hat were easily comnlled with, it
-ould be shinped here, limited only by
ho size of tho shipper's purse.
Well, thoro was only ono thing to
-lo-vait til), the .Lcsrislaturp .met ja
nln nnd have thrs riitWfixedWclir
he neoplc waited, nnd the Legislature
Innlly got into session nnd tho Cannon
Mil wns passed by the lower house,
which called for a state-wldo law.
But right hero somebody must have
Tot scared that Utah was really going
fo havo prohibition, for tho Senate,
iftcr nights of wrangling, finally
.urned tho measure down, for no other
enson so far ns tho peoplo of this
"tate could see, than that the law was
-cally going to prohibit.
Now two more yern of wnitincr. nnd
lhc powers thnt be. met acain to shnnn
ho destinies of a freo neoplo, nnd af
ter due consideration it wns thought
ndvlsablo not to reopen the liquor
luestfon again ns it cnuscd too much
ngitatlon. What do you know about
that?
Tho peoplo of Utah are long Buffer
ing. Thoy waited, public sentiment
bpenmo somewhat stronger and men
wero elected to the last session that
really knew what they "wnnted, and a
state-wide law by both housos was
onacted and every citizen thought that
it last the liquor question was going
to bo settled for all time; but tho lovo
of Moces! they failed to consider that
their action, although they were tho
representatives of tho citizens of a
Teat stato must meet the approval
of a Governor, which as we all know
't failed to get, nnd once more the peo
ple were buncoed.
But some little relief wns given in
order to throw out a little sop: the
Funk bill was npproved: it was a law
oassed with tho best of intentions, but
ts far as providing a remedy for which
tho people in dry cities craved, it was
ns barren of results as it is possiblo
for a law to bo, and tho poor dear peo
olo wero faked once more. Under this
'aw it could pot be shipped within tho
state, but owing to the fact thnt Utah
was only partly dry, intor-state ship
ments could not bo prevented provid
ing the wet goods wero for personal
use. (n jokor.)
But it is unnecessary to ship it
from out of tho state. With tho facil
ities that tho automobile glvo for trav
eling from place to place, and with wot
towns dotted all over the country, it is
merely a pleasure trip to obtain a
supply of tho liquid. Of courso tho
"ourt rulings aro that it must bo for
personal use, (another joker.)
This paper is for state-wide prohi
bition, but opposed to local option in
anV manner or form, a stato law that
puis one town at tho mercy of another,
without any specific clause that will
nroperly and adequately protect a dry
community is wrong, and should bo
repealed at the first opportunity.
This is just what local option docs,
and becnuso tho peoplo voted for this
condition and it haB proved a failure,
is not any reason why it should bo.
saddled on them for over, not by any
means": for It has turned out to bo the
biggest' farco thnt was over put upon
tho statute books, as far as giving
the reli6f it was supposed to give.
It is time for tho people who want
stnto-wido prohibition, minus' any po
litical jdealo, clauses, jokers, star
chamber sessions, mldnlo-ht interviews
or any Governor's opinion, to get in
line. -
Don't imagino that this reform -will,
coma by isirely expressing a wjgrtfthatj;
. 4
, wo ought to' havo it, it will tako work
( of tho hnrdest kind, for tho liquor in- H
torestB aro not HBlccp. If the people H
of tills state, who clafm that thoy nro H
n tho largest majority, aro sincere in M
their fight for prohibition, thov will M
flock to tho primaries of all political M
parties, and see to It that nono but M
I friends of state-wldo prohibition nro M
I elected dolcgntos to tho stato convon- M
tions whero the rcnl work of platform H
mnklng, and ticket namine is done. M
Tho majority of tho nconlo of Utah M
want stnto-widc prohibition, or nt H
least a chance to voto on the question, H
but they don't want nny nfflr in which .H
I their expressed wish will bo defeated M
by icgnl clauses that makes tho law M
I jnoporativo ns far as accomplishing H
tho results that aro desired. Let tho
peoplo rule. H
STEPHEN SMITH CALLED H
BY THE GRIM REAPER
Death Results From Ulcer on Brain M
Deceased Is the Last or Buuja- 'M
min Smith Family. H
Last Monday mornim the communi- 1
ly ?yns shocked and surprised to loom 'M
of the sudden and Unexpected denth of 'M
Stephen Smith, tho last survivor of the M
family pf Benjamin Smith, Sr., one of M
the early settlers of this cltv. Most M
of us were not awaro of Stophon's M
illness. It is learned that ho came M
down from tho Ashdown sawmill on 'H
Juno 21st, suffering with severe ear- :H
nche and pnins.in tho head. Later Dr. M
Mncfaiiano wag called to see him, and M
decided that ho was suffering from an M
nbcoBs on tho brain. A post mortem iH
proved the correctness of this dlogno- 'H
sis '1
Stcphon was 44 years, 2 months and ,H
12 dnyB old at tho time of his death. - 'H
and was unmarried.
Funeral services wero held In the .H
tabernacle yesterday nftornoon, tho M
speakers being Ex-Bishop W. H. Cor- 'M
ry, Andrew Corry, Jethro Pnlmcr nnd H
Bishop Matheson. All boro testimony H
to tho good character nnd peaceable, iH
Industrious disposition of deceased. M
Intormont was made in the Cedar H
cemetery. H
.Deceased's last illness wna spent nt ,H
the homo of his niece, Mrs. John 'M
Spcndlove. .H
Y. L. M. I. A. TO WORK FOR
STATE-WIDE PROHIBITION ,H
At tho Juno conference of tho Mu-
tURl Improvement Associations tho (iH
is&gjsmsuasMiSi &m
? i?P. for sla,c nntl nation-wide pro- H
Iiiultion.'lfj. I
Coachetrnnd assisted by such stal- wH
wart workers as Apostlo HnhoV. J. H
Grant, Apostlo Anthony W. Tvlns, and 'B
others, the Mutualn and-particularly H
tho Young Ladles' organization, will M
this ycai; wield n strong influonco in M
tho electing of delogntea to tho var- H
ious conventions who nro well ground- iH
cd in this principle, H
Locally tho Mutuals will open their H
campaign by an outdoor temperance H
meeting next Sunday evoning, which H
will be addressed by Attorney Will B. M
fllgglns. and will include a number of H
appropriate musical numbers. H
Turn out and help tho good causo H
along. H
CARD OF THANKS. M
Wo deslro to express our thanka and H
appreciation for all tho favors nnd -H
sympathy bestowed upon us by friends ' -H
nnd neighbors during tho affliction H
wo have Just been called to pass thru. H
Thoy could not have done moro for us, H
and wo deeply appreciate It all nnd vVB
tho kindly motives which prompted' it. M
MR. & MRS. THOMAS URIE. '
ANOTHER ROAD DECORD 'H
FOR CHALMERS SIX-30. ,
Dctrfjit-Indlanapolto Time Lowered by M
Durham, Driving Rccord-Breaking 'l
Chicago-New York Car. H
Piloting tho samo Chalmers Six-30
roadster in which ho broke tho Chica- ' M
go-Ncw"York road record two weoka M
ago, BemF. Durhnm arrived In India- M
Jinpolls on Juno 19, from Detroit with :
n now record of eight hours nnd twen- M
ty minutes for the 305 mile run. M
Two hundred and sixty miles of the M
Indianapolis trip were made in a drlv- H
Ing rain, over roads flooded by rccqnt .M
continued bad weather. Numerous H
detours nt points where now otrSj;chos H
of road wero under construction WM
caused dqlay as did tho breaking of n wM
shock absorber which spelled a loss of fSS
nineteen minutes for repnirs. . WiA
"Tho performance of the 3.40P R. ' .KM
P. M. Chalmers under conditions oven iro
worso than on my New York trip was E&v
a revelation to mo," said Durham on mk
his arrival at Indianapolis. "Although m
tho rondB wero in bad shape, wo did v JSpf?
not use chains at any point,-thft wop- TPwR
derful road balance of the cur keeping' SittM
us right side up at all times. ?0ur, Wffi,
average of 35.91 mllo3 per hour for '&gfa
tho trip is n remarkable one, consider- ''Ml6?
ing weather conditions I am confl- SfW,
dent, though, that tho Chalmers Six- 'BSBS
30 can cut at least SO minutc from JB&L
this record if rain and poor roads' are S$$i
eliminated from our schedule." &
Somo idea of the pneo traveled by Vfln
Durham in his trip to Indinniipolis enn raRff
bo gained from .'a comparison of tho ,, , WMt.
fastest train time of ninq, hours fiat lyjB
nnd thq Chalmers record of eight hrs. jH
and 22 minutes. HH
J. David Leigh, Lund, Utah, Is ag- 11
cut for Chalmor cars in this territory. JH
Adv. v' &
&;
Dr. Mscfarlano, reports, ,tha4 arrival' - .B
of n babyjboyvnt thehqirio.ofJMryand' $
Mrs, ' Josoph 'Fouler Jus tAMoiiduy, v - jM
,, , I 1 1 JifcY '' ""' u - .H
