jH ,r,t "' " - - . .
M I ' -'
'1 ' I it
' , 5,
i WayVMeta! Prices ilL. fd J - QL YX &W 4 P. ft CITY EDITION If
I - u IIP II IflLlrTL SI a Illlfl I II twelve pages
5 m New York, June 30. silver, 65'c: N LS M W L S mJA M& W ft W r& W & W" W'W F A, vs 1; ft'
J IcnfJ spc.ter, $11.50; copper, V X TV L T WEATHER-Utah: Fair Tonight l ll
, ?2G.5029.00. r - X and Probably Saturday; Warmer in 'il
if - lf - , West Portion. j1 ' !
1 .' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 1 i:
j -Xth YCar"N 156' Ce F'VC OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 30, 1916. 7 Entered as Second Clasa Matter at th. Pcrtoff.ce, Oflden, Utah. ! ! f,
i MEXICAN FOREIGN OFFICE DENIES
I STATEMENTS IN LANSING'S NOTE
Memorandum Issued Containing 35 Counts Considered Equiv
alent to Answer to State Department Defies Washing
ton to Produce Proof of Assertions and Declares En
ergetically That United States Has No Right to
Maintain Armed Forces on Mexican Soil.
Mexico City, June 30. The foreign office today issued
a memorandum in reply to Secretary Lansing's recent note in
which the correctness of assertions in the communication, from
Washington were repeatedly denied. JThe memorandum de
clares that the United States had no right to maintain its armed
, forces on Mexican soil.
The memorandum contains 35 counts. Although not in
. the form of a direct reply to the Washington note, it is con
sidered equivalent to an answer to that document.
It expresses surprise that the Washington government
should have been pained at the tone and the contents of the
Carranza document since it intimates that the United States
I has sent to the constitutional government not only one, but
F many discourteous and even overbearing notes.
L Emphatically reiterating the Mexican government's posi
i tion denying the right of the United States to keep bodies in
, Mexico, the memorandum denies energetically that the Mexi
can government has protected bandits who had committed de
predations in the United States and defies Washington to pro
duce proof of the assertion.
Blame for the Santa Ysabel massa
cre is placed on the so-called Impul
sive and irrasclble disposition of
Charles Watson, general manager of
the Cusihuiriachic company, and
General Scott and General Funston
are accused of bad faith and lack of
honor in misleading General Obregon
in an alleged evasive reply regarding
the crossing of American troops into
Mexico after the Glenn Springs raid.
Mexico City, June 30 The memo
randum asserts that while it is true
' that the United States arrested Gen
eral Huerta, the motive which prompt
ed this act was not a purpose of aid
ing the constitutionalist government
hut because the United States feared
that General Huerta was plotting
with Germany.
The note concludes by declaring
that the presence, of American troops
in Mexico invites rather than pre
vents bandit raids along the border.
The memorandum was issued at the
same time that the foreign office au
? thorlzed publication of Secretary Lan
, sing's recent note.
i Washington, June 30. Private ad
vices reaching Washington from a re
liable source in Mexico City today said
General Carranza and his advisers had
determined to stand by orders to Gen
' eral Trcvino to attack American
troops in Mexico moving in any dlrec
i tion except toward the border, and
that no way was seen to avoid a
hreak with the United States.
A faction of the Mexican cabinet,
It was said, was urging an even more
defiant attitude and wanted to include
in the reply to the American request
for a statement of intentions, a new
demand for immediate withdrawal Qf
, all United States troops now on Mexi
can soil.
The advices did not Indicate when
the response from Carranza might be
expected. The last word on the sub
ject to the state department came in
a message from Special Agent Itodg
ers who said he expected the note to
he handed him Wednesday night.
"When President Wilson met with
his cabinet today just before leaving
for New York the unfavorable private
J reports had not reached him and
there were practically no new develop
k inents in the Mexican crisis to bo con
sidered. Military preparations are be
ing rushed to completion, however,
but diplomatically there is nothing to
J be done until Carranza's reply is re
. ceived or it becomes apparent that he
, will not respond within a reasonable
Ume.
A brief talk with Ambassador Arre
dondo, Mr. Lansing making it plain
that the Washington government ex
acted an early reply to its note.
All members of the cabinet agreed
after the meeting that both the situ
ation and the policy of the United
States were unchanged.
The release of the captured troop-
ers has delaved military action, but
; not relieved the critical diplomatic
, situation.
Several reports from Special Agent
Rodgers referring to refugees in rou
tino matters does not mention the
Mexican note.
It Is known, however, that interests
in the Mexican capital which have
been exerting every effort to prevent
a break, are much discoraged.
Mexican Reply to Decide Action.
Should the Mexican reply follow the
line indicated and be in defiance of
the United. States, President Wilson
probably would arrange to lay tho
whole matter before congress immedi
ately. War department officials appeared
to be satisfied with the progress of
the national guard mobilization.
Effect of Draft Order.
It vas learned today that war de
partment legal experts construe the
resolution adopted by congress and
sent to the White House yesterday as
granting authority to draft every en
rolled member of tho National Guard
into the federal service whenever the
president shall decide the step is ne
cessary. The draft would apply, they
believe, to all guardsmen, whether
they take a new oath or not. Under
this construction the whole enrolled
strength of the state troops, now up
wards of 130,000 men, could bo called
Into the federal service without delay
and be used either on the1 border or
in Mexico.
Situation in Mexico.
Washington, June 30. Word from
Special Agent Rogers at Mexico City
regarding Carranza's reply to the
American note demanding a. state
ment of his Intentions still was await
ed today.
Formal, announcement of the sur
render of the Carrizal prisoners was
conveyed to Secretary Lansing by E1I
veo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassa
dor designate. He talked with the
secretary for ten minutes. Later he
said he had discussed the general sit
uation but had brought no communi
cation from his government.
Mr. Arredondo also took up with
Secretary Lansing again the question
of alleged maltreatment of Mexicans
on the American side and asked that
steps be taken to prevent further
trouble of this sort.
On returning to the embassy he
made public a message from Mexico
City saying that although the state
department had telegraphed Special
Agent Rodgers to warn all Americans
to leave Mexico Immediately, or the
United States government would not
be responsible for the consequences,
actually less than 300 had left Mex
ico City and not more than 200 left
the surrounding country.
Americans Stay in Mexico.
"The greater majority of Americans
In Mexico City," said the dispatch,
"have elected to remain as they ha o
been In Mexico throughout all the
trouble in the last five years, and no
one of them who has not gone out of
his wav to invite trouble has ever
been molested. The Mexican govern
ment has given positive guarantees
I SUBSCRIBERS, NOTICE I
Those subscribers who did not get one of our Electric 1
Irons may now do so, while they last. We have just re- I
ceived the last shipment at this price. 1
To our subscribers only with a ten year j J I
written guarantee 1
.
t
for the protection of the lives and
property of Americans in the states of
Tabasco and Guanajuato whenever
such Americans express a desire to
remain and unquestionably it will do
so in all other portions of the repub
lic." In conclusion the message said
"Since the beginning of internation
al difficulties no disposition has ever
been -exhibited here, at any time, to
molest any American on account of
his nationality, although those who
have sought trouble usually have been
accommodated."
Official ireports to the state de
partment have shown that only a few
hundred Americans are left in all
Mexico.
War Risk Insurance.
Washington, Juno 30. Mexican and
Central American ports were added
today to federal war risk insurance
bureau's special list to which no in
surance on either ships or cargoes is
Issued except on arrangements direct
with headquarters here. Such risks
are made at special premiums. Offi
cials of the bureau declined to say
whether development's in the Mexican
situation were responsible for their
action.
Gonzales to Command at Border.
Brownsville, Texas, June 30. It was
reported on good authority in Mata
moros and here today that General
Pablo Gonzales, former commander of
Mexico City, and son-in-law of General
Carranza, has been detailed to com
mand the Mexican border opposite
this section, succeeding General Al
fredo RIcaut. The report could not bo
officially confirmed.
00
GUARDSMEN ON
WAY TOBORDERJ
Troop Trains Rushing For-j
ward With Regiments From '
Western States.
San Francisco, Cal., June 30. Na
tional guardsmen of the western states
were being mobilized Tor theM'exicaif
border today as fast as troop trains
could -carry them southward. All tho
Oregon militiamen were en route to
the border, a large portion of the Cal
ifornia guard having departed and
Montana's regiment expected to en
train today. Washington's militia
was awaiting orders to move at any
time. '
Both state and -federal troops will
move under a veil of official secrecy
in the future, as orders went out last
night from the headquarters of the
western division of the army forbid
ding the giving out of any information
regarding mobilization.
The first detachment of California
soldiers to entrain from Camp Hiram
Johnson at Sacramento, consisting of
400 men of the first squadron of cav
alry, were nearing Nogales, Arizona,
today, having left the mobilization
camp In a special train last night. The
first battalion of field artillery, and
the Second and Fifth infantry regfl;
ments were to leave today.
Oregon's mobilization headquarters
at Camp Withycombe were deserted
today, the last troops having left last
night for San Diego.
The Second Montana regiment of in
fantry was to depart for Douglas, Ari
zona, today if rolling stock could be
secured.
Militia Preparing to Move.
Denver, Colo., June 30. Mustering
and physical examination were con
tinued today at tho mobilization camp
of the Colorado National Guard in
the absence of additional orders for
the movement of completed units.
Battery B was being transformed
from state to .federal troops today.
Adjutant-General H. P. Gamble an
nounced mustering had been complet
ed in the First battalion infantry and
the First squadron of cavalry.
Troops Pass Through Chicago.
Chicago, June 30. Chicago contin
ued today to be tho "change cars or
rather "change roads" point In the
movement of federalized national
"uards from the eastern department
United States army, to the Mexican
border. During the night the First
Connecticut cavalry, tho Connecticut
signal corps and tho Eighth Mass a
chusetts Infantry passed through Chi
cago. Chicago, Juno 30. Progress of pre
paring national guardsmen in the cen
tral department of the United States
army to entrain -for tho border reach
ed final stages in six of the fourteen
states today, according to reports re
ceived at the headquarters of Mnjor
Geueral Barry, department command-
eiIn Missouri. Kansas, Illinois, Indi
ana Colorado and Nebraska inventor
ies 'of property have been taken in
certain units. Progress in mustering
Is reported in Wisconsin, Iowa, North
Dakota, Ohio. Michigan Minnesota
while in Wyoming and South Dakota
the organizations are being prepared
for muster.
Big Parade at Sioux Falls.
Sioux Falls, S. D., Juno 30. Pro
naredness sentiment crystallized here
today in a parade in which the march
ed numbered over 16,000 Governor
Byrne and Mayor Burnsldo of Sioux
The business men are taking much
interest In the Defense Fund started
by the Standard. Yet, while somo
seem to fail to gather the full slgnifl
gance, others wax enthusiastic and
one said:
'Put me down for whatever you
want, and, if that is not enough, make
it more."
But what the Standard desires is to
have the heads of the different busi
ness organizations get together, dis
cuss the merit of the proposition and
then, respond as they see their obliga
tion to the nation.
Some one has said, "greater love
hath no man, than that he give his
life for his country."
And we add to that:
Greater duty has no man meaning
you and me than to offers protection
to the loved ones left as dependents
by those who go to the front to fight
our battles.
1 No, we all can't go. Some are too
old, some have 100 much business;
some are too young; and some are
physically unfit.
But no one is too old; too busy; too
young, or too feeble, but he can give
a portion of his wealth to the support
and welfare of those who have sent
husbands and fathers so that this na
tion shall continue to be one of tho
people, by the people, for the people
and shall not perish from the earth.
Clearing House.
The Clearing. HojiKyisqqiation is
to have a meeting to 'decide on what
source to follow in offering aid to the
National Guard families. A. P. Bige.
low, vice president of the association,
made the following remarks to a
Standard reporter this morning:
"The plan is a very commendable
one, and has my heartfelt support. I
also believe it will have the support of
the rest of the members of the Clear
ing house. However as President M.
S. Browning is out of town for several
days, wo will not do anything until he
returns."
Falls were in the reviewing stand.
Illinois Seventh Leaves.
Springfield, HI , June 30. The Sev
enth regiment, Illinois National Guard,
and tho staff officers of the First in
fantry brigade entrained for tho Mexi
can border today.
Nevada, Mo., June 30. Tho only in
formation concerning movements of
the Missouri National Guard available
today was that the First infantry
would depart this afternoon for the
border
. uu
UTAH BATTERY
NOW IN NOGALES
Nogales. Arizona, June 30. Tho
Utah National Guard battery of field
artiller with 142 men and six offi
cers under command of Captain W. C.
Webb, arrived here early today.
San Antonio, Texas, June 30. The
first of the national guardsmen to
reach a border station was one battal
ion of the Utah artillery that went in
to camp at Nogales this afternoon.
Two regiments of the Illinois guards
men will roach San Antonio late today.
00
ROGER CASEMENT
Condemned Man a Fanatic
and Dreamer and Death
Does Not Remove
Cause.
London, Juno 30, 11:40 a, m. -Tho
Manchester Guardian, one of the mast
influential papers In the country,
makes a direct plea for clemency for
Sir Roger Casement.
While admitting that no other sen
tence but that of death could have
been pronounced by tho court the
Guardian Bays:
"Casement was a fanatic and his
crimes, like thoso of many other fan
atics, aro free -from tho tnJnt of sordld
ness and meanness. Tho death pen
alty will do nothing to kill such
dreams as his. Rather it will give
them life.
"For tho sako of .tho new Ireland
which we hopo to see, it is a mo
ment for clemency."
An indirect plea for mercy Is made
by other papers, on the ground that
the execution of Casement would not
assist In settling the Irish problem.
00
REFUGEES STAY
ABOARD WASHIPS
Washington, June 30. Many of the
1200 refugees from Mexico at Galves
ton on the navy tender Dixie and oth
er vessels probably will be compelled
to stay aboard ship for at least a
week.
Assistant Secretary Newton of the
treasunr announced that women, chil
dren and invalids would be allowed to
land after medical examinations but
that delay could not be avoided in
other cases because the immigration
barracks and quarantine station at
Galveston can accommodate only
about 400.
MEMBERS OF LOAN
BOARD TO BE NAMED
Washington, Juno 30. Nominations
of the five members of the farm loan
board created by the new rural cred
its act, will bo sent to the senate in a
few days.
UV7
10 olliLIL Ol ILll
Truck Trains Not Turned Back
by Mexican Force as
Reported.
Columbus, N. M., June 30. Scout
ing detachments sent out to investi
gate reports that the Carranzistas
!wtTro concentrating large cavalry for
ces near Guzman huve informed Gen
eral Pershing that there is no cause
for apprehension on this score, ac
cording to news received here today
They found no evidence that the Mex
icans were preparing to cut the Amer
! ican line of communication. How
1 ever, the garrison at Guzman, they
I said, had been somewhat increased by
cavalry arriving from the south
Officers here said today that tho
line of communications was entirely
open. They denied a report that truck
trains bound from Columbus to Co
lonla Dublan had been turned back
last night through fear of a Mexican
force of 2,000 men. They said that no
truck train had left Columbus and
that none was then ready to leave.
00
!0WAN WARN
hv Wmrmm
liil Ju m (LmLUUii
Officer Told Not to Return Be
cause He Urged Mutinous
Cavalrymen to Take
' Oath.
Utica, N. Y , June 30. At the week
ly meeting of the Rotary club of this
city today was read the telegram sent
by citizens of West Branch, Iowa, to
Captain J. C. McGregor of the First
Iowa Cavalry warning him not to re
turn to that town because he attempt
ed to influence cavalrymen to take
the federalized oath. A message was
sent him saying that 'Utica will wel
come him with open arms and inviting
him to come here.
Iowa Guards Reconsider.
Des Moines, Iowa, June 30. Mem
bers of the First cavalry, Iowa Na
tional Guard, who two days refused to
take the federal oath have decided to
reconsider their refusal, It was re
ported today. Final decision on the
matter will bo left to the adjutant-general.
nn
OFFICERS BURIED IN
CARRIZAL CEMETERY
El Paso, Texas, June 30 All but a
few of the Americans who fell at Car
rizal, Including the bodies of Captain
Boyd and Lieutenant Adair have been
buried In the Carrizal cemetery, so
government officials were informed
here today by an American who has
Just returned from that district. The
few unburled lay on tho outskirts of
tho field and bad apparently been
overlooked.
From the same source, the Carran
zlsta casualties In the fight were put
at 26 killed and 50 wounded. The
Mexicans also lost 36 horses killed.
00
Vera Cruz, June 30. Tho Ward lin
er Monterey with American refugees
is expected to sail this afternoon.
r
RUSSIANS CAPTURE TOWN AND if
SEVERAL VILLAGES ON DUSTER
H
Further Gains Made in New Drive Over 25-mile Front Ger- j l
man Crown Prince's Troops Carry Redoubt East of Hill j
304, Literally Crushing Defenders French in i j
Spirited Counter-attack Drive Germans Out
Lively Engagements Continue Along Brit- 1
ish Front Germans Capture 100 m ! 1
Russian Prisoners in Counter- ,
attack. j ,'
ITALIAN OFFENSIVE IN TRENTINO CONTINUES !
Petrograd, via London, June 30. 6 p. m. The war office
announced today the capture of the town of Obertine, south I I
of the Dneister river, and villages north and south of that point. S j
The statement follows : J j
"In the region south of the Dneister we are pursuing the ;
enemy. The Austrians, panic stricken in their flight, are '
leaving behind a large number of convoys. Military material
and more prisoners have been brought in. .
"According to telegrams received here, the town of Ober- 1 ,
tine was taken after a fight as well as villages in the neighbor- j j
hood north and south. Northwest of the confluence of the J
river Lipa and Styr our detachments approached unperceived i ;
the settlement of Covbane and took possession. After having
put the garrison of Covbane to the bayonet we took possession i
of the village to which the enemy had fled in panic. Soma :
prisoners were taken by us."
a j! ' it
London, June 30, 7:14 p. m. Obertine, the capture of j !j
which is reported in today's Russian official communication, r j
is 1 4 miles northeast of Kolmea. The occupation of this town j 1
by the Russians represents a further gain in the new drive over h 1
a 25-mile front. . ' -.- j j
-Rome,
June 30, via London ( 5 : 50 p. m. The Italian of- '
fensive on the Trentino front continues unchecked. The war
office announcement today says that in the Arsa valley the
Italians occupied the Val Morbia line and the southern slopes ;
of Monte Spil. Along the Posina they captured ground on j J
Monte Calgari and Monte Sogli Bianchi. '
Paris today announces that the Ger
man crown prince's troops carried a
redoubt east of Hill No. 304 in the
Verdun region, literally crushing its
defenders, but that a spirited counter
attack ultimately drove them out.
Lively engagements, chiefly be
tween artillery forces and patrol de
tachments, continue along the British
front and large sections of the French
line, south of the Argonne. The Ger
mans apparently are endeavoring to
wrest the Initiative from the Franco
British forces.
Germans Make Terrific Attack.
Paris, June 30. 12:30 p. m. In a
terrific attack upon the French posi
tions east of Hill 304 in the Verdun
sector the Germans captured a forti
fied work in the first line of the
French trenches after the garrison
had been literally burled under a
storm of shells. The position was re
captured by a brilliant French coun
ter attack, according to an official
statement issued by the French war
office today.
Tho Germans also delivered a pow
erful attack on the French positions
In Aocourt wood and west of Hill
304 but all their efforts are declared
to have been checked with heavy loss
es to the attackers. Considerable ac
tivity Is reported on the front from
NIeuport to the Alsne.
The statement says
"In Belgium last night at about 11
o'clock following a preparatory artil
lery fire, German forces attacked a
salient of four lines far from the road
between NIeuport and Lombaerzyde
A counter attack was immediately de
livered which drove the enemy out of
one section of trenches where they
had gained a footing between Chaul
nes and Roye. A strong German re
connoitering party, caught under our
fire, was dispersed before it could
reach our trenches.
"Between the Oise and the Aisne
two other German patrols were dis
persed In a like manner, one In front
of Quennevierres, the other northeast
of Vlugrce.
"In the Champagne district an ene
my attack with hand grenades upon
our advanced posts west of Butte de
Mesnil was easily repulsed."
British and French Repulsed.
Berlin, June 30, via London, 4:50
p. m. Attacks by the British and
French at various places along the
western front yesterday and last night
were repulsed by German troops, the
war office announced today. The of
ficial statement adds:
"South of Tahure and near Mais
ons do Champagne, advancing French
detachments wore sanguinarily re
pulsed. "On the left bank of the Meuse we
made progress on Hill 304.
"The total of prisoners taken since
Juno 23 and 70 officers and 3072
mon.
"On the evening of June .27 Lieu-,
' 1
tenant Boelke shot down his nine- j; S
teenth enemy aeroplane near the ; ;j
Thiaumont farm and Lieutenant .
Parschau brought down his fifth ene- 1, ''J,
my aeroplane near Peronne. i It
"Eastern front: Apart from an en- ,) , j
counter which resulted in our favor j, '
north of Lake IlBkin southwest of J
Dvinsk nothing of the moment is re- j:
ported from the front.
"Army group of General Llnsingeir ; :
Counter attacks made on positions '"
from which our troops recently drovo '
the Russians were futile. We cap- , -j
tured more than 100 prisoners." ! .
! i
Turks Defeat Russians. j
Constantinople, June 30, via Lon- ' , ,
don, 2 p. m. Russian troops In Persia 1
have withdrawn from their fortified ;
positions near Kerlnd after two des- , '
perate attacks which were repulsed
by the Turks, says today's official 1 ;
Turkish announcement. '
!i i
Fire at Marseilles. .J
Marseilles, Juno 30, 1 :30 a. in. j i
The third serious fire within a fort- :
night on the dock front of Marseilles j 4
caused extensive damage today. The (1 I
tire is believed to have been Incendi- j i
ary- n i! ;
Paris, June 30, 3.50 p. m. The bill , t '
imposing a tax on all extraordinary . j : j
and supplementary profits during the ,1 ,
war was passed today by both tho 1
senate and the chamber of deputies.
00 ''
FOUR VILLISTAS ARE !
HANGED AT DEMING
r
Deining, N. M., June 30. Four Vil-
llstas who took part in the Columbus Jk
raid were executed by hauging In the ; f
county jail here today. j ; il
The men were put to death In pairs. -
Eusevio Renteria and Taurino Garcia j;j (
were placed on the scaffold first. They , j 1
were not pronounced dead until after j ,
twenty minutes had passed. j !; ,
Joso Pangel and Juan Castillo were '(i
next. Their necks were broken and j '
death was almost instantaneous. j j : j
The four men were calm. Jose pi J
Rangel smoked a cigarette as the . J
noose was adjusted. None would say 'j
anything except Garcia who exclaim- . (
ed, as he was led to execution:
"I hope God will forgive my ene-
mies." :i
This completes the disposition of ' '
the cases of Columbus raiders, Jose , ' (
Rodriguez "Sicently was granted a stay ( j
of execution and 1b serving a life
S6Tit6UC6 ' '
Company D., New Mexico National h I
Guards, was held at the armory In
case of an attempted demonstration. A ; j .
force of forty deputies, appointed by ,
Sheriff W. J. Simpson, guarded the .
jail during the night. There were no
disorders. . . j .
