Units of Penna. National Guard Leaving Camp Brumbaugh For Mexican Bord
HARRISBURG ifjjSflll TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 150
CARRANZA REPORTED
TO SEE NO WAY TO
AVOID WAR WITH U. S.
IS DETERMIAED
TO BACK UP HIS
ATTACK ORDER
Will Stand by Command Civ en to General Trevino to Fire
on American Cavalrymen if They Move in Any Direc
tion Except Toward Border; Word Comes in Private
Message From Reliable Source
DEFIANT FACTION OF MEXICAN CABINET
WANTS IMMEDIATE WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS
Desires to Include in American Request For Statement of
Intentions New Demand For Recall of All United
States Soldiers Now on Mexican Soil at Once
By Asso seated Press
Washington, June 30.—Private advices reaching Washington
from a reliable source in Mexico City to-day said General Carranza
and his advisers had determined to stand by orders to General Tre
vino to attack American troops in Mexico moving in any direction
except toward the border, and that no way was seen to avoid a break
with the United States.
URGE IMMEDIATE WITHDRAWAL
A faction of the Mexican cabinet, it was said, was urging an
even move defiant attitude and wanted to include in the reply to
the American request for a statement of intentions, a new demand
for immediate withdrawal of all United States troops now on
Mexican soil.
The advices did not indicate when the response from Carranza
might be expected. . The last word on the subject to the State De
partment came in a message from Special Agent Rodgers, who said
he expected the note to be handed him Wednesday night.
Rush Military Preparations
, When President Wilson met with his cabinet to-dav just before
having for New York to deliver an address, the unfavorable private
reports had not reached him and there were practicallv no develop
ments in the Mexican crisis to be considered. .Military preparations
are being rushed to completion, however, but diplomatically there
is nothing, to be done until Carranza'? reply is received or it becomes
apparent that he will not respond within a reasonable time.
Growing Impatient at Delay
Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador designate, called on
Mr. Lansing early in the day to communicate formally the informa-
[Continue*! on Page 10]
THE WEATHER
For Harrlibors and vicinity: Prob
ably fair to-night and Saturday!
moderate temperature.
For EaMtern Pennsylvania: Prob
ably fair to-night and
not muck change in temperature;
gentle to northeast and east
wind*.
The principal branches of the Sus
quehanna river system and nil
their tributaries will probably
continue to tall. The main river
will remain nearly stationary to
■Ukt, except the upper portion,
which will probably fall slowly.
A stage of about 5.3 feet is indi
cated for Saturday
morning.
General Conditions
Preaaure la relatively high over the
Great Lake* and the Susquehanna
alley and about normal over
nearly all the rest of the country
east of the Mississippi river. An
extensive low pressure system
covers most of the western half
of the country with several nmall
••enters of disturbance. Scattered
thowers have fallen In the Middle
and *outh Vtlantle and the Gulf
States and In Tennessee, and
showers have occurred generally
In the Northern Border Statea
from the Great l.ake« westward to
the Pacific ocean.
It Is somewhat cooler this morn
ing oxer the Rocky Mountain
and Southern Plateau regions*
elsewhere temperatures general
ly are near the seasonable aver
age, with no important chungea
In the last twenty-four hours.
Temperature: * a. m..
Sun: Rises, 4:40 a. m.j seta, 7:37
p. m.
Moon: .»w moon. to-day, Ri4B
a. m.
Veaterday's Weather
Highest temperature, K2.
Lowest temperature. H4.
Mean temperature. 73.
Normal temperature, 73.
MB
At the Seashore or op In the
mountains, no matter where you
*° spend your vacation, "the
Han-iafourg Telegraph will be sure
to reach yon every day. Your
vacation will not be complete un
less jrottr favorite newspaper
spends the tine with you.
Drop a postal or call the Circu
lation Dept.
BY CARRIERS « CENT* A WEEK.
SINGLE roriES a CENTS.
Other Mexican News Pages 10 and 11
DOUBLE-HEADER
FOR TOMORROW
Railroad Sluggers and League
# Nines to Share Honors on
Island Diamond
Harrisburg baseball fans will be
treated to two big league games on
ia Island KTOundfl to-morrow after
noon when the Harrisburg Motive
Power Club will meet the Xew York
Motive Power team in the Pennsvl
vania Railroad League and George
Cor kill's Xew York State Leaguers
will meet Rill Coughiin's hustling
S'ranton club.
The arrangements for the double
header were completed this morning
when the officials of the Motive Power
Clut- very graciously waived their
prior claim on the island grounds and
arieed to stage "he big double-header
that would give the two leading
league clubs of the city a chance to
show.
The game between the New York
and Harrisburg railroad teams will
f-tart at 2 o'clock and great interest
centers in this match as the Harris
burg club is now tied with Trenton
ioi first place and the Xew Yorkers
have an exceptionally strong club
The shop men will turn out in great
number to root for the local club.
Additional interest centers in the
.ronton -Harrisburg game as the
rsilroad boys are strong boosters for
• Onager Oockill and his charges and
are anxious to have him get his club
ir. the New York State League race
Tor the first division. The professional
league game will follow the railroad
contest and one admission will be ac
cepted for both contests.
BRITAIN'S TR.U>K GROWS
By Associated Press
London, June 30. The trade of
the United Kingdom is growing not
withstanding the war. The Board of
Trade reports exports for the three
months ending June 26 were 110,691,-
000 pounds sterling, an Increase over
the same period last year of 26,090,000
pounds sterling.
YIKOX MAY CJO DRY
By Associated Press
Dawson, Y. T., June 30. Workers
for prohibition here celebrated to-day
the passage yesterday by the Yukon
Territorial Legislature of a bill seeking
a referendum election on the question
of prohibition. In Yukon territory to be
held not later than September 1 next
HARRISBURG, PA, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 30, 1916.
SAYS ARMS WILL BE USED AGAINST US |
m. ■ - -.•"
MRS NEI/SONO'SHALTGHNESSY. «Mtf
smuggled into Mexico' n»t.nt!ki a f?i ls " lat we have sold or that were
own men. *•»«>• ostensibly to kill Huerta will be used against our
that lt was a° bad't^°rig n tV V d'o /nH o n t » th l I ?°" ditions in Mexico knew
WiU "It w«?i ed be°a ,W ° °[„ three a-d a thi G e e or fouS tffere - Bbroa4 bUt th6> '
of all kinds ot diseases! ° f the w ° r,t kin "' ««en will die
d*AfTa!rs S aV"Uxico o City S to U d^ ne^?mn^rt e the , former American Charge
United States Jroips emering Mexico mmanKd conditlons that will confront
of Woman', Supply Committee
OPEN BIG DEPOT
-• BIDS ON JULY 19
Dozen Firms Will Sumbit
Figures on Freight Station
Construction
Eids will be opened Wednesday. July
19 by the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company for the construction of the
spacious freight stations in South Sec
ond street, below Mulberry
Ai least a dozen well-known firms
. submit estimates and their figures
will be based on revised plans as com
pleted yesterday by Architect William
11. Cookman. Philadelphia.
The new structure will be built of
brick and concrete and will be equip
pec with the latest devices for pro
&*a'rVrt flre ' * tp - The main
building will he 400 feet long and fifty
feet wide an<l will be four stories in
height. The smaller building will be
fifty by one hundred feet and a single
story high.
Proposals will be submitted by
these firms: Warren. Moore and Com
pany; Hughes. Foulkrod Company; L.
H. Smith. Alexander Chambley, Fidel
ity Construction Company. Brown-
Kin- Construction Company, Jacob
Miyers and Sons Company, Cramp and
Company. Metzger and Fisher. Bailey-
Lush Company, Irwin and Leighton.
• 'harles McCaul Company and the
Turner Concrete Steel Company.
Work on the foundations for the
'.fast freight distribution structure is
being pushed rapidly by the J. L. L.
Kuhn contracting company and
practically all of the concrete posts
upon which the station will be erected
are in place.
Murderer of Four Men
Dies in Electric Chair
Sing Sing, Tune 30. Cresta Shilli
tanl was executed In the State prison
this morning for the murder three
years ago of two Xew York policemen
who were Attempting to arrest him for
killing a third man in a quarrel about
« girl.-j '
| Shillitani made no pretense of in
sanity during his trial but became ap
parently crazed with terror in the death
bouse a few weeks ago when two other
prisoners were executed. A week ago
he obtained possession of a revolver,
shot one of the keepers In the death
hous« and wounded another and es
caped but recaptured.
ANOTHER CRISIS
IN U. S. DEMAND
Austria to Refuse Petrolite Re
quest; Cry For Renewal of
L-Boat War in Germany
By Associated Press
Berlin, (via Amsterdam), June 30.
Minister of Marine von Capelle the
" f Admiral von
»-apeile, had a conference late vester
aav afternoon with Foreign Minister
\on Jaicow. Chancellor von Beth
mann-Hollwpsr also is said to have re
?. e I^ t th, h . p Marine Minister. The sub
» .v . conf erences is believed to
iri America n note to Austria.
The opinion seemed to prevail in au
(Continued on Page 17.)
Ear! Kitchener Divides
$850,000 Among Relatives
By Associated Press
London. June 30. The will of
Field Marsha! Earl Kitchener, the
British secretary of war who lost his
*, e in the sinking of the cruiser
Hampshire off the Orkneys, June 5
waF admitted to probate to-day. It
shows that he left an estate valued at
11.1,420 pounds sterling (approxi
maiely $850,000).
, Th . e ,J argest bef l u ests were the sum
of $20,000 pound sterling to his
nephew, Henry Hamilton Kitchener
and the Broome Park estate and all
lends in Kent county to his nephew
; < ommander Henry Franklin f'heval
j :ier Kitchener of the Royal Navy, a
?or of the new earl.
The will makes a number of smaller
bequests to relatives and friends, in
, eluding 200 pound sterling, each to
several officers who served on Lord
Kitchener's personal staff
FORMER JI'DGK KILLS SELF
Tunkhannock, Pa.. June 30. E. I
Mortimer Phillips, formerly an asso
ciate Judge, committed suicide last
night at his home here by shooting. ;
He was 81 years old and was despond- '
ent because of ill health. Mr. Phil
lips became station agent of the Le- !
high Valley Railroad Company upon
the opening of the road here in 1868
and served forty years, retiring in
1908 because of age. He served aa
associate Judge of Wyoming county
in ifee B£v:£j4ie&
CANT TOLERATE
U. S. TROOPS IN
MEXICO LONGER
Statement by Mexican Foreign
Department Demands Im
mediate Withdrawal
TRIED TO GET BANDITS
Claims Carranza Has Been
Loyal; 140 Mexicans Killed
in U. S., Is Assertion
[By International News Service]
Mexico City, Mex.. June 30 (Via
Galveston. Texas). The following
statement was given out early to-day
jby the Department of foreign Rela
tions of the Constitutionalist govern
jment as representing in fact its views
on the United States reply to Car
rnnza's note requesting the immediate
| withdrawal of troops from the Mex
ican territory. Parts follow:
"It seems strange that the Depart
: ment of State should show surprise
' and disappointment for the tone and
■ character of the note of the 22nd of
! May which it calls discourteous when
jthe very same Department of State
I haf sent to the Constitutionalist gov-
[Continued on Porc 12]
Cabinet Officers Confer on
Co-ordination of Resources
of U. S. in Time of Need
By Associated Press
Washington, J'tne 30. Six cabinet
officers composing the new "council
of executive information for co-ordin
ation of industries and resources for
national security and welfare," held a
preliminary organization meeting to
day at the War Department. Tenta
tive rules and plans of action were
adopted for President Wilson's ap
proval and the selection of a civilian
advisory commission considered.
Co-ordination of military, industrial
and commercial resources to "render
possible in time of need the immediate
concentration and utilization of the
resources of the nation." is the object
of the new body. It is composed of
the Secretaries of War, Navy, Interior,
Agriculture, Commer' - and Labor.
Telegraph Pictures
of Mt. Gretna Camp
Attract Attention
The fund for the relief of soldiers'
families is being greatly augmented
to-day by the great crowds that have
been thronging the Victoria Theater
to see the Telegraph's Camp Brum
baugh motion pictures. The more than
1.200 feet of film shows camp life in
every detail and the audience displays
great enthusiasm when the figures of
Harrisbnrg lads ftit across the screen.
The pictures were made by J. A.
Ruchanan. of the Universal Company,
one of the best news photo men in the
country, and art ns clear as any ever
shown in this city. They will be shown
this evening and 10 per cent, of the
receipts at all performances will eo to
the soldiers relief fund. The Tele
graph receives no money from this
enterprise. The pictures were made
'•ecausr this newspaper believed people
unable to get to camp would like to
have a glimDse of how Harrisburg
boys and oth°r Pennsylvania troops
live there.
Telegraph's Picnic
Pictures at Majestic
1 Hundreds of little folks and their
: narents saw the moving pictures of the
i Telegraph school outing at Paxtang
• park shown at the Mejestic theater
yesterday. The pictures show Gov
ernor Brumbaugh. Marjorie Sterrett,
i the "battleship girl." and numerous
! picnic scenes. The films will be on the
program to-dav and to-morrow.
Plan to Meet Treasury
Deficit Is Up in Air
Sprrial to the Telrgraph
Washington. D. C.. June 30. De-
I spite attempts to reach an agreement
st a conference between Representa
tive Kitchin. of North Carolina, chair
man of the. Ways and Means Commit
tee of the House and Secretary of the
Treasury McAdoo, the administration
is still without any definite revenue
ra's'ng program.
! The Secretary of the Treasury and
the Democratic leader were In con
f< rence for a considerable time, but
both officials admitted afterward that
tl.ere ad been no agreement upon an
issuance of Panama Canal bonds to
meet the prospective deficit in the
Treasury. *
There is a dispute between the Ways
and Means Committee of the House on
the one side and the Secretary of the
Treasury on the other as to whether
an issue of bonds will be necessary
Afi McAdoo told Representative
Kitchin that there was a considerable
surplus in the treasury and that there
wculd be $ 1 80,000.000 on hand at the
end of the present fiscal year after
the income and other taxes had been
received.
of Revolutionists
Are Met by Li Yuan Hung
By Associated Press
Peking. June 30. President Li
Yuan Hung in a mandate issued to
day. proclaimed the restoration of the,
Nanking provisional constitution i
which was demanded by the revolu
tionists and orders the Parliament dis
banded by Yuan Shi Kai in 1913 re
convened August 1. The mandate ap-|
points Tuan Chi Jul premier.
The president in his mandate de
clares that the lack of a permanent
constitution has been responsible for
China's troubles and orders the par
liament to make a permanent consti
tution without delay. The mandate j
meets virtually all the demands of the I
revolutionists, although their opposi
te tp Tup Jul i* gtiU bitter, ;
20 PAGES
FOURTH BRIGADE
I TO BE MOVED BY
MIDDLE OF WEEK
Cos. D and I to Face Physicians
Sunday or Monday; Ex
pect Good Report
ENGINEERS ENTRAIN
Hutchison Sends Thanks;
Many Tents falling as Troops
Prepare to Leave
Special to the Telegraph
Camp Brumbaugh, Mt. Gretna. Pa.,
June 30. Because the Eighth Kegi-
of which Companies D and I
arc a part, will not reach physical
examination before Sunday or Mon
c.ay, it is believed the Fourth Brigade
will not Vie moved from Mt. Gretna
before the middle of next week. The
Eighth is in good health and had one
o* the best reports in cauip to-day.
Its rookies are being rapidly drilled
ir.to shape and despite a drizzling rain
that fell on to-day
the officers had them out on practice
marches about the camp and doing
drills most of the day. Most of the
recruits are now it) uniform and the
whole Eighth will be untrormed and
for the most part fully equipped be
fore it moves.
General Hutchison sent a message
[Continued on Page 10]
U-Boat Courier Astray
in Great Salt Lake,
May Take It or Leave It
Special to the Telegraph
Salt Lake. Ctah, June 30. Bathers
at Saltair Beach were thrown into a
panic yesterday afternoon when an ob
ject resembling a shark's tin was seen
moving swiftly through the waters of
the Great Salt Lake. l'°ear changed to
amazement when a few minutes later
the upper works and finally the deck ot
a submarine revealed themselves.
Above the hatchway arose a burlv
form, and through a megaphone came
the hoarse Inquiry:
"Iss it New York?"
"Nix," was the reply.
"Mein Gott!" was all that was heard
as the submarine quickly disappeared
beneath the waves.
Local scientists believe that through
this Incident the long dispute over the
outlet to the Great Salt Lake will ba
I* ** ff 11 »w^wp
Harrisburg. Sensational stories of friction b. v • sen |
Captain James B. Kemper, chief mustering officer for the I
i Regular Army, and officers of the Guard at Mt. Gretna, jr
were set at rest to-day when General Wood called Captain J
| Kemper on the long distance phone and up-held the course 9
of Kemper in every detail, At the same time Colonel |
Simpson, of the Regulars, wired General Celement for de- i*
tails and General Clement wired back that there is no fric- jj
tion. He said the newspaper reports had been sensational g*
and untrue and declared that Kemper and the Guard officers * .
are working in perfect harmony. At the same time Colonel ik
1 Finney, of the Eighth Regiment, came to headquarters J
with a renewal of the request that Kemper be made lieu- i
i tenant colonel of the Eighth. f i
RUSS TAKE ANOTHER TOWN ' >
Petrograd, June 30.—The war office announced to-day
the capture of the town of Obertine, south of the Dniestc I f
j river,.anr villages north and south of that point. i >
I AMERICANS BURIED AT CARRIZAL
4 1 E] Paso, June 30.—All.but a few of the American:; who' '
, fell at Carrizal, including the bodies of Captain Boyd and j
<, Lieutenant Adair, have been buried in the Carrizai Ccme-* rf
tery. so government officials were informed to-day by an 'i'
American who has just returned from this district. From I J
ithe same source the Carrancista casualties in the fight were • >
put at 26 killed and fifty wounded. The Mexicans lost 35 '
horses. Jb
TAFT IS GUEST OF HUGHES |
Bridgehampton, N. Y„ June 30. Former President
Taft was the luncheon guest to-day of Charles E. Hughes
at the nominee's temporary summer home here. r.
SOLDIERS KILL MEXICAN ACROSS RIVER? I* I
El Pn?o, June 30.—A Mexican line rider of the Cnr- I
j I ranzs customs service was killed last night by a squad of
1 American soldiers who fired across the Rio Grande into, I %
Mexican territory near Ysle'ca, 12 miles east of El Paso, $ .
! according to a report received by General Gonzales in ,
i Juarez, to-day. I »
:
MARRIAGE L.
Amoa l.awrmee t'lrndenln and Ardflln Blanche Virginia l'inrn, Marys- 1
timer Toomey aad Jennie Ellen Xctialrt, city. A ,
>1 Ww»M M P
CITY EDITION
FLAMING LIQUIDS
USED BY GERMANS
IN VERDUN DRIVE
Crush French Defenders of
First Line Trench, but Later
Are Driven Back
CLASHES ON BRITISH LINES
Teuton Try to Wrest Initiative
in Flanders; Russians Press
ing Hard 011 Kolomca
Easing their pressure along the cast
bank of the Mouse, north of Verdun,
the Germans last night attacked on
the westerly side of the stream on a
wide front extending from the Avo
oourt wood, on the extreme French
left, to a point east of hill 304, about
two miles to the northeast of the
wood.
Paris to-day announces that while
the crown Prince's troops succeeded
in carrying a redoubt cast of hill 304,
literally crushing its defenders, a spir
[Continued on Page 15]
Revision of Schedule
on Marysville Line
Revision of schedule and frequent
fumigation of cars on the Marysville
line of the Valley Railways Company
are ordered by the Public Service Com
mission in an opinion handed down
to-day in the complaint of John F.
Shannon. Jr.. of Marysville, filed some
weeks ago. The decision of the com
mission is summed up as follows:
"The Valley Railways Company l?
ordered to clean each car used upon
its Marysville line at the finish of each
clay's service, and to fumigate the cars
on said line at frequent intervals, and
to revise its running schedule on said
line that between 4 o'clock p. m. and
R. 30 o'clock p. m., inclusive, cars shall
be operated between Harrisburg and
Marysville at intervals of 30 minutes,
except on Sundays and holidays."
NO SPOT KOlt MI KDKK
By .Issociated I'rcss
Waukeegan, 111., June 30. Testi
mony that the spot in Helm's wood
where Marion Lambert died of poison
was in full view of an interurban rail
way station and therefore never would
have been selected for a deliberately
planned murder was given to-day b'v
Gale M. Brooks, a civil engineer, in
the trial of Will H. Orpet, chargeo
wltl\ the murder of Miss Lambert.
