. ' MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Eugle will bring buyer
and Mller together.
THE WEATHER, i
" TonMit anil fl.f itnti v anutttltMf
weather.
Ifce
AND PILOT
VOL XXX, NO. 156.
BRYAN, TEXAS, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1916.
PRICE S4.00 PER ANNUM
-. 1 . . . j. ,
Eagle
Canmza Wm StoinA ijy Mk Fomiter Daaands
sssesssas-mmmmmm bsbsbssssbsbbbi mm
" Quality and Service "
We Solicit you'i; grocery and market
trade.
Hardy Hewton
SCHOLARSHIP
I-
TE3T5 CLOSED
V
Scholarships Awarded to Women and
Girls of County In Varloua
Contests.
doing would accomplish If they would
only persevere In their effort!.
Scholarship No. 1, for the farm wom
an getting the highest average of eggs
from a given number of hena from
February 15 to June 30, was awarded
to Mrs. J. C. Cloud of Bryan, Route 6.
The second scholarship, to the farm
girl who could produce the largest
number of eggs from a like given flock
of hens In the same period of time,
was awardod to Miss I.lllle Saxon of
Dryan, Route 8.
The third scholarship, to the farm
The committees from the Woman's
Club of Dryan which has bad In
charge the contest which has lasted girl who could raise the largest nura
alnce the fifteenth of last February ( ber of frying chickens from a given
for the A. M. short course scholar-, number of hens during the same per
ships among the ladles and young lod of time, was awarded to Miss Win
women of Dratoa County, met this nle Mathls of Dryan, Route 6.
morning at 9 o'clock at the court The fourth scholarship, for the best
bouse to welcome these contestants display of vegetsbles brought In from
( as they arrived in the city with their ( a garden and raised by the contestant,
various displays and records to place ( went to Miss Agnes Conway of Bryan,
jt before the Judges. I Route 6.
lif, H o'clock all were in. the dls- ( ' The fifth and last scholarship was
plays were arranged and the Judging for the best display of home canned
commenced. Much Interest was manl- vegetables raised In a garden grown
feeted and the sight that was beheld , by the contestant, and this was award
In the corridor of the court house ed to Miss Ima Cook of Bryan, Route
waa one to be long remembered by (.
those who saw It Vegetables of every Contestants from all over the coun
known kind were on display, fresh and ty were present but every price was
canned; fruits, eggs and fancy work awarded to wrmn and girls living on
'and In fact everything that can be Route No. ( out of Bryan,
produced by the thrifty housewife or Miss Ima Cook deserves especial
he housewife's daughter In the rural mention as her displays were very fine
"district and the Judges, who did not know the
The county court room had been of the exhibitors, found that
ery artistically decorated for the final tncr awarded three prizes to Miss
OUR TROOPS MUST NOT
IV
E EXCEPT TO NORTH
Mexican Situation Is Again Tense Caused by
News That Carranza Would Stand by His Or
der to Attack American Troops if They Move
in Any Direction Except North Some of Car
ranza's Advisers Insisted On a New Demand
for Immediate Withdrawal of the American
Troops Wilson May Lay Whole Matter Be
fore Congress at Once American Troops
Fired Across Rio Grande and Killed Mexican
Customs Official Mexicans Stirred Up Over
It Efforts Being Made to Keep Troop Train
Movements a Secret to Prevent Accidents.
Four Villa Raiders at Columbus Hanged at
Deming The Slain Americans at Carrizal
Were Buried. '
wmwwmm r n'rrrrannninuun.
HEADQUARTERS FOR
FIRST-CLASS GROCERIES
If you appreciate fresh groceries and prompt
service phone us.
PHONE
54
PHONE
78
FORMER
IS
ACQUITTED
Captain Hana Tsuscher, Former Offi
cer, Was Acquitted Today on
Conspiracy Charge.
(Br Associated Press)
Washington, June 30. Private ad
vices reaching Waahlngton from a re
liable aource In Mexico City said Car
ranza and hla advisers had determin
ed to stand by the orders given Gen
eral Trsvlno to attack all Americans
moving in any direction except north,
and that no way was seen to avoid
a break with the United States. A
faction of the Mexican cabinet, it was
Ing receipt of their report he would
I net discuss the Incident
I i
1
Cusrd Train Movements.
(By Associated Press.)
San Antonio. Texas, June 30.
While thousands of National Guards
men are moving toward the border to
day, extraordinary precautionary
measures are taken to prevent the
said, urged a more defiant attitude and ;"'ct rou,lnK nd "b'dules of the
wanted to include In the American re-
numerous special trains from beeom-
meeting and was filled with peo-
e esger to hear what the speakers,
rs. Nat P. Jackson and Miss Dernlre
Carter of the extension department of
the A. A M. College had to tell them.
These two ladles did themselves much
credit In their talks and everyone pres
ent listened attentively to every word
they bad to say. m
After the speeches were made Mrs.
A. J. Buchanan, the retiring president
f the club and chairman of the rural
betterment rommlttee, made some very
complimentary remarks regarding the
rork that bad been done and told
kow the club women of the Cltyof
Aryan appreciated the efforts of tho
ladles of the county In rural welfare,
how they appreciated their co-operation
In the contests Just closed, and
for the beautiful displays they had
brought to the city.
Mrs. A. M. Waldrop. the Inromln?
president of the club, was here Intro
duced and opened (he Judges' derisions
that had been prepared during the
talks by the ladlea. In a few very ap
propriate words. Mrs. Waldrop told
.iu . - m..-a , .k. U..X1.1.I ,n widely known. It waa explained
withdrawal of all American soldiers I thMe n,ps"' taken to prevent
.n Mexico. Ths advices did not lndl- " from being wrecked. Gen
cate when Carranzas answer may be Pun,on D0Pd lhe Prt
of tDe troops would be on the border
expecica. . , . .
The unfsvorable private reports had ' lur n'S".
reached Washington In time for the
cabinet meeting this morning and
there were practically no new develop
ments In the Mexican csisls to bo con
sldered.i Should tho Mexican reply fol
low the lino Indicated and be In de- b raid ware executed by hanging to-
Foster and Mrs. J. A. Henrr alao de-! fiance of the United States, however, ! day In the county Jail. They were
serve credit as their displsys scored ' Its meaning might be wrapped about hanged In pairs,
only a few points below that of the with diplomatic language. There Is
winner of the first prize. Mrs. Cloud, no Indication that the admlnlatratlon Conceal Movements.
t-i.- i.. j -- ..- . ' i., i i.. j-. !..!- (By Associated Piwm.)
nlng were: I. E. Cow.rt of A. M continue the prot.ct.on of the border' cj!!? t 30. (Bulletin.)
. ... . I .... ... ooretary of War Baker announced to-
Cook, but after same waa learned two
of them were re awarded. Mrs. Henry
Villa Followers Hanged.
(By Associated Presa.)
Deming. X. M, June 30. Four Villa
followers participating In the Col urn
(By Associated Press.)
New York, June 30. Captain Hans
Tauscher, a former German army of
ficer and the husband o f Madame
Gadskl, waa acquitted by a jury today
of a charge of conspiracy to blow up
the Welland Canal. It was alleged
that be was an accomplice of the high I
German consular officials in this coun
try. I
ONE MI 111
BE
nil
BUYER
Cleburne Lady Taking Cotton Classing
at A. A M. and Believes Women
Can Compete With Men.
NEWSPAPERS PLEA
Iff
Claim Is Made That Sir Roger Case
ment Was Fanatic and Not Re
sponsible for Crime.
London, June 30. The Manchester
Guardian and other leading English
newspapers are making a direct plea
for clemency for Sir Roger Casement,
who has been sentenced to del for the
rebellion in Ireland. The plea Is made
on the ground that he la a fanatic and
was not entirely responsible for the
crimes be committed. Other papers
ssy tbst his execution will not help
the Irish situation.
Mrs. M. Francis, Miss Bernlce Carter r the military operations. President
and Mrs. J. J. Ray. 'Wilson will probably strange to lay
T. J. Conway, head of the poultry the whols matter before congress lm
department of A. A M. College, and mediately.
Miss Mary Locke of Zack were the
AMERICANS FIRE ACROSS.
(Hv Associated Pre)
Paso, Texas, Juns JO. A Mexl-
day that orders had been sent to alt
departmental commanders to suppress
all news concerning troop movements
In view 1f the "possibility of some
act which might cause loss of life."
WANTED Two gentlemen boarders
and roomers. Terms very reason
able. Write X, care Eagle office.
Can women compete with men suc
cessfully as cotton buyers? Mrs. H.
M. Haley of Cleburne believes they
can. lira. Haley believes that there
is a Dlaca for wnmen In th rntlnn
business, somewhere, and so strongly
does she believe It that she bag
rolled In the summer school In cotton
classing at the A. c M. College.
. "I may be the first woman In Texas
to study cotton classing. I do not
know, but I do not see why there) are)
not places In the offices and else
where that's woman could fill. At
any rate I am Intensely Interested la
the study of cotton classing and mar
keting and I am going to take up that
work when I complete the 'course
here." Mrs. Haley told J. B. Bagley.
professor of textile engineering at A.
ft sr. . 4 . ;
She Is taking a keen Interest In the
work and Is advancing as rapidly as
the men.
The cotton classing school will con
tinue until July 29 and It Is possible
for students to enter now and com
plete the work.
SUCCESSFUL MEETING.
Rev. J. J. Tatnm has Just returned
from North Zulcfi where he conducted
a very successful revival. There wera
fifty conversloua, many reclaimed and
the entire community spiritually re
vived. It waa a cooperative meeting,
all the denominations In the commun
ity taking part
wwiiii M-1.rrr rrrrrrr -r -r rr l-rnnril-in n ryi ru-u-LTu-LTLri
Americans Buried.
(By Associated Pr.
El Taso. Texas. June 30 All but a
few of the Americans killed at Car-
Judges In the poultry and egg con
tests. After the prizes were swarded at
the court house the entlr n.rt w!
carried to hincheon .t ti,. v.. T,i,!eB "" r,ldef '"Blng to the Car-
nore TprT Mmptoua spread , ! rltal. Including Captain Boyd and
to a good show at the Dixie Theatre. ... i rlral cemetery, government ofrirlals
Grande Into Mexican territory near , , , . . ' oi.inais
m ' Ik... ' . . ere Informed today by an American
Pw.pl. who think before they speak ' V,eU T"- arrlvlna from ,ho iL " . "!
seldom say much. I according to a report received murcm - - -
-- -"urnuri m in
, fight were put at twenty six killed and
. fifty wounded. Thirty five horses
were killed.
Weather never gets cold enough to
nip the society buds.
Pnrndox To become round eat nlentv !
me ladles what the work they were , of aquare meals.
here, according to a report received
by General Gonzatea at Juarez today.
Considerable Indignation was ex
pressed In Juarez over the affair and
General Gonzales sent a complaint to
General Bell who aald he would detail
I officers to make Investigations. Pond-
!..............
I7e Furnish Your Home Complete
sv
Our large stock of Furniture offers an opportunity for selection;
our low prices make it possible for vou to itct what von need with
th? least expenditure, and our easy payment plan allows you to
ot inc installments with case.
Let Us Help You With Your Plans.
fm - i
" 'XT, ' (
a M
' . tut
I Is (M (
j wi hi
I to tmws
(Si
Mstt our Mctrola DepartBient.
FRISKS
GERMANS CAPTURE
FORTIFIED IRKS
i I
Ttrrlflc Attack Is Mads on Hill 304
and ths First Lino of French
Trenches Are Captured.
nv AMrviatd Vt
t.ondnn, June 30. In a terrific at-
jtack on the French positions on the
essl of Hill 301. the Germans can
tured tho fortified works In Ihe first
line trenches after the garrison had
been literally burled under a storm of
shells. The position was recaptured
ly brilliant French counter attacks,
according to the Paris official state
ment. I
Frtnch Repulsed.
I (By Akm-UH rrM )
J lndnn. June The attacks by
Ihe British and Frenth'at various
places along the wesinrn front ve.inr.
day an dlnst nlalit were repulsed bv
the German troops. It Is announced
today In Berlin.
It Will Increase the Beauty
and Comfort of Your Home!
iOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC-OOOOOSO
o
to
o
o
o
A
I i 2
INEW FURNITURE
000O000000000O0000000000OO000000OOO00000OOO
f
Don't build your home merely for out
side appearance. Make it attractive and
comfortable inside.
Our constant ieffort is to obtain new
designs that will meet with your every re
quirement, and with a close scrutiny of
every detail of construction in the manu
facture. Wc would like to have you call and see
our stock of furniture those beautiful
bedroom suits in birds eye, mahogany, old
ivory and oak. Willow sets, comfortable
rockers, art squares, rugs and refrigera
tors. In our new home wc arc prepared to
show you our excellent lines.
W.T. JArvlESgFURNITURE
"The Store That' Gives Service That
Busy People Appreciate." '
fr r Q-jyinju-u-UTju-u- jij-.rLrLrLrLruwij
I. J
