inr t
ti.
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1916.
NUMBER 53.
be
fnte
LIENT. HOGE WRITES OF
CARRANZA BATTLE
He Was on Detached Service and
Escapes Fate of Brother
Officers.
Col. and Mrs. W. M. Hoge are
in receipt of a letter dated June
22, from their son, Lieut Ben
Hoge, 10th Cavalry, U. S. A., in
which he relates the circum
stances of his escape from the
Carranzal massacre. A part of
the letter follows :
"On the morning of June 17th
I was detached from my troop
and sent in charge of a wagon
train on a 90 mile trip south with
supplies for the 11th cavalry.
The day after I left, my troop,
under Capt. Boyd and Lieut.
"Hank," Lieut. Adair, they
were leading our men forward
and driving the Mexicans back,
Henry W. McNeel.
Through the earnest solicita
tion of democrats all over the
Fulkerson Heir Wins First Skir
mish. The case of Lillian Fulkerson
but they were coming around j Young et. al. vs. the Hartford 'county, Henry W. McNeel pre
our flanks and were rapidly kill-'Life Insurance Company, a suitjsents himself as a candidate for
Representative from Lafayette
county, subject to the action of
the voters August 1.
Mr. McNeel has a wide ac
quaintance throughout the
ing our men oft. It js now re- to recover on an insurance policy
ported that Capt. Boyd was kill-1 for $3,000.00 on the life of the
ed, and I reckon most all were late Dr. J. J. Fulkerson, was con
killed or wounded. I don't be-'ciuded in the circuit court Sat-
lieve anybody would have sur- Urday when the jury returned a!
rendered. jverdict in favor of the heirs foricounty and will need no one to
"This is certainly awful and I the full amount of the policy and Vouch for his democracy, ability,
feel sick over the whole business.: 6 interest from the time of j integrity or faithfulness to dis
It will bring on war with Mexico, the proof of the death of the charge whatever duties the office
which was bound to come sooner policy holder. The total amount j may impose upon him. He has
or later. Reckon everything being $3,265. The insurance 'proven his worth before in the
along this line will be moving icompanv will anneal the case. Recorder's office, where for
either north or more likely south,
on to Chihuahua. Am expecting
Adair, was sent on a patrol to jman the best officer I have yet
Anamaaa, u mues east oi nere:seen jn our army j know Mrg
on the Mex. Lent. Ky. lhey had
orders to go to this town and to
avoid trouble with Carranza
The heirs were represented by eight years he demonstrated
Judge S. N. Wilson and Charles ithat he had these Qualities, and
orders at any moment and have j Lyons; the defendant by Jones besides he was always accommo
a lot to look after. 'and Haid of St. Louis, and Aull 'dating and made the patrons of
Lapt. Boyd was a wonderful& Aull. ithe office feel that as a
i
; ' "
I: l - '
f ! !
k -'. . lj
HON. SAM C. MAJOR
GARDNER
VISITS
LEXINGTON
Democratic Candidate for Gov
ernor Makes Fine Impression.
Col. Frederick D. Gardner of
St. Louis, Democratic candidate
for Governor, arrived in Lex
ington Friday evening about
four o'clock and spent the re
maining hours of the day and
the early hours of the night in
meeting as many of the voters
as possible within the short time
he had to spend here. It
was a pleasure to meet Col.
Gardner, a candidate who has
never before been a candidate;
a successful business man fresh
from the business world with a
Maurice Hicklin Marries,
Maurice Hicklin, son of the
Candidate for the Democratic rd of fine acidevemGnt at.
public nomination for Representative tained throurh his own Derse.
Boyd and the two little children
very well. She is just a splendid jlate Mr. and Mrs Robert Hick.
and beautiful woman. Is at i.- n,:. :.j icrnvprni hi nffi
trwww if nnihlp Thp nrwA. t it . ui llua was marueu in Y. vv'
" - - ieavenworin at present
ing day Larranza had served an
servant he could do nothing less in Congress from the
than give them every attention ; Congressional District
consistent with system and the 'L.-
proper observance of the laws
Seventh i
Pnlnmhia Inst FHrlnv to Mi
I only have the time to state '
ultimatum on us not to move' the bare facts" .
troops east, south or of our (Date(J JuM 2.) battIe J
present ocation. It was known 1 occurred Tune 21 t 'r? J , , Columbia Machine Co.
that several thousand Carranza! fourth Infantry, . N. G. M.
t Aiomo,i, ,i - . Mr. and Mrs. Hicklin are both
"""i'0 " UDton Wilson Kreaks Hin
Mr. McNeel should receive the
support of every Democrat in
Lafayette County.
verance and energy after a hum
ble beginning.
j Col. Gardner is a self
made man in the truest sense.
J. C. Graddy Elected President.
The Missouri Elks' Associa-
Christian Endeavor Convention.
1 The Eignteenth annual conven-le was born on a farm in Ten-
tion of the Christian Endeavor jnessee, going to St. Louis when
workers convened in Cole Camp,a veiT vounS man and entering
June 23, 24 and 25. The local business of which he is now
'seociety was represented by Miss at the head as an office by-IIia
'Grace Gaffin, Miss Elsie Weber record is one of which any man
and Wilfred Potter.
may feel proud, and one which
j a j: xi it... . ; u " i l i . l ii , , , i i i t 1 1
evfrvhodv here realized it was tt u.j . Kiauuawa oi uie university oi , nun wxuui concmueu a tnree The delegates returned Mon-voters ougnt to careiuiiy
an extremely dangerous mission.1 tun ito fall while cross nJVaX i f T'k UStre len? session m Moberly Thurs- day evening and brou?ht with consider when choosing a man
He had only 40 men. Left 20 1 won avenue Sv evenin," 9"! M' HlCkh" EoM t' ltS PreSklent ff them the Fourth strict ban-1 to manage the affairs of this
sore back horses and as mmyTSL erest .the Columbia Daily ,the coming year, J. C. Graddy 'ner for highest aims, and alsotate. A successful business
;"d Xen " 8 nf ,Times to his partner. -of this city. The full roster of the highest standing in efficiency man to direct the affairs of Mis-
This mominir ahmit 10 o'clock i,.' w ,11 ,officers chosen is as follows: Mr. Potter was elected citizen-'souri would be quite an inno-
eight pack mules came MoQZJZ, m t' ' S-.B,.u.e ,e" " .L. , Pt; AI smP superintendent
ramn tw w- w,,,ipa Ca nt i tt " i.j " i ' . ' lor amP UarK. Nevada, Alo. lie .wsoon, KirKsvine, wo., nrst
...v, w f nawKins, in luagnum, UKia. JMr
I!oyd had taken with him. Four, Wilson is 88 vears old.
of
were missing. Most of the mules
were shot, one through the head.
Later about 12 o'clock, three "C"
troop men came in and two "K"
was summoned by Maj. R. P. , vice-president; E.
Palmer to assist in the quarter- Webb City, second
'master's dpnnrtmpnt nt thp dent: Otto Rotts. Kptali thirrl
AAhIS 8; K C 4 camp. In the event of a call for vice-president; Charles Sauers,
The Athletics Sunday defeat- volunteers, Maj. Palmer will ask Chillicothe, trustee for three
Fourth District.
had gone out from "K"
"C" troop outfit before there
was trouble.
They came to the town early
yesterday morning, were told not
to come further. Capt. Eoyd
told them his orders required
him to go through the town. As
he advanced they opened fire on
him. He dismouted to fight on
foot, leaving a few men to hold
the horses. These men are the
only ones who escaped. .They
were charged from the rear and
cut off from their troops. One
of them was wounded through
the shoulder. These men estim
ate that the Mexicans had at
least 800 men, entrenched and
armed with machine guns. When
they last saw Capt. Boyd and
Marshall Votes for Trouble,
ed the Ackerman-Quicrlev team -...n. A '
4- , a -(.i ... auuiuiny tu raise a resriment in yvaia, vv ej .Diuwiie, airuuion.
Mini . iiuu.0t Kansas Citv bvthe swp of t . , . -..i. ,,'. A u hnnn w n ;a ' . . . . . ,
om "K" troon q a t? r- 13 Iiauve 5iaxe i0wa' ana secretary; r.. a. .wajor, Clinton, " ..vo v. uu';u character is above reproach and
rw.u tu udLLci itrs. ami sms I ,iTv ii . , rt tv i x n fri - i Tno r ftu'n r.rwrci rionr ra i o
north of hpre anH Wl mpt trip'xT i j t m ----- - men mane oergt. uiue Laptain treasurer; su. r. inomas, oium- f'"""
norm oi nere and naa met tneNeale and .Bailey: Lexmjrton. j u . w a i onri Has . F.lprtrir-SprvW Pn
" ttuu vucii Lciniciniei ui Liie ieii- via, uuvji jvccuci. -
l r 1 m. i
the'vation, and in Col. Gardner the
j opportunity should not be lost.
convention Then again, Col. Gardner's de
mocracy is unquestioned. He
was born of southern parents,
and hewing true to the line his
alleiriance to democratic Drin-
.1 11 .if UK 1.11
.uunuay me uuy oi .uarsnau. ciple has never wavered. His
T-l ItT 1
WOOCl,' The next annual
vice-presi- ,viii i,e held in I.eximrtnn.
he is
fnvvMUnl J pv: mi .
aiiincjiciei anu oiiuin. ine jnent.
feature of the game was two i ' "
home runs made by the visitors. The carnpai?n for
a dry Lex
ington took on a crimson hue
MonHflv niVht Tt is rpnnvtpd tVint
Albert Mitty Sunday caught some precious rlarpt ws
' f"
The next meeting will be held whick 'vns and operates the gas
in Joplin. ;antl electnc plants here, owned
and operated the plant in Mar-
Some Fish.
a blue catfish out of the big ed and that a iandscape was court
iimuujr, a Miort aistance aDove considerably marred
luyucK, mat weignea pounds.
The fish was bought by George
M. Long.
Circuit Court.
The following parties have been
granted divorces in the circuit
shall.
votes.
The bonds carried by 23
where he is best known,
respected most.
Col. Gardner is visiting as
many counties as possible before
the primary, and wherever he
goes the same sentiment seems
to develop, that he should receive
the nomination.
Curt Lay of Higginsville was'
Double W'edding.
Mr. Ben Lierman and Miss 1
Frances Kratzer, and Mr. Frank
Ellis and Miss Mary Fauss, all'
of Lexington, were married Sat
urday afternoon at 2:30 at the
Baptist parsonage by Rev. G.
Garland Riggan.
Florence Watson from Robert brought to Lexington Saturday i H. E. Slusher went to Kansas
Watson. by Deputy Sheriff S. N. King City Saturday to spend the
Prairie Church Lawn Social, j Effie Lockhart from Wilbur of Higginsville, and lodged in the day on business.
The women of Prairie church Lockhart. county jail. Lay is charged with I Miss Virginia Barton return
will give 'a lawn social at the Nannie Vermillion from Ben- stealing copper and brass from ed to her home in Odessa Tues-
Kufus loung farm, 6 miles nett Vermillion. the Farmer's Coal Company of, day after a visit here with
southeast of Lexington and 81 Mabel
miles west of Higginsville the Kost.
night of July 13.
Kost from Mathias Higginsville.
I
I Mr. and Mrs. B. R. Young.
Lena Rosewall from Thomas'
, Rosewell.
Lawn Social. j Willie Scott from Mandy Scott. 1
The ladies of the Edenview Wm. H. Rogers from Cilicia !
church will give a lawn social at Rogers. j
$4 "$? 444vH444ss4''tM-
STORE YOUR GRAIN
George R. Young's Wednesday
night, July 13, to which the pub
lic is cordially invited.
The court
July 25.
adjourned until
A recent communication from
D. F. Conrad, who was called to 1
his home in Warsaw, Ind., on
account of the serious illness of :
- IN A-
METAL GRAIN BIN
Rain and Rat Proof
We are prepared to quote
you attractive prices on
several different makes.
Notice.
I hereby give notice that any
SVendall and Tucker Farm east of his father, states that his father
Lexington will be prosecuted. ;is very much better
W. H. Willard.
Saloon Licenses Granted.
W. J. Fette, Alma.
Henry A. Angelbeck, Henry ;
ft
Summer Specials
A Lot of Broken Sizes in Ladies
Pumps, Strap Oxfords, Button
and Lace Oxfords.
WORTH $2.50 and $3.00
At
$1.98
Local Option Speaking Dates.
Friday evening at 7 :30 at the
Northwest corner of the square, ; Franz and Henry C. Krienkamp,
Kev. J. r . Lawson of Odessa, Mo. Loncordia.
Sunday afternoon at 4 o'clock ' W. R. Carter, Alex. Denton and
public square, J. A. Kemper and J. H. Gausman, Wellington.
. t
f : Jas. A. Kerr of Independence.
Gustav Haerle (4), August
Anderson, Fawkes & Beck, Ira
Mrs. Jerome Meyer, Mrs. B. II. Haydon, John C. Glish, W. E.
Miller, Mrs. M. F. Miller and Gavin, Shinn & Ruby, Chris
Mrs. L. E. Johnson of Sedalia , Walk, Mclntyre & Mitchell, Lex-
;and Mrs. George Risler of Buck-.Mgton,
ner, Charter members of the
Past Noble Grand Association of
the Loyal Rebekah Lodge No.
260 are holding a one day ses
sion here with Mrs. J. T. Cauth-en.
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICK, Manager.
"The Yard that Savei and SstisGea."
William Aull, Sr., went to Hig
ginsville Monday morning on leg
al business.
Charles Weber returned yes
terday from a busines trip to
St. Louis.
Judge Alexander Graves ac
companied by his son, Alex-
Misses Temple Chikls, Rebecca
Evans and Francis Meyers of
Independence arrived yesterday ander Graves, jr., went to Jef
for a visit here at the homejferson City yesterday on busl
of Judge Richard Field. Iness.
"S.
v.1)
v
Our Customers are always surprised,
when they see the Values we show in
"Wei worth" and "Wirthmor" Waists,
at
$2.00 and $1.00
There MAY BE others
"JUST AS GOOD"
But we have never seen them and our
entire shipment is
SOLI) EACH MONTH
SO THERE MUST BE A REASON
COME IN AND SEE THEM.
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER LOOKING AND MORE COM
FORTABLE THESE HOT SUMMER DAYS, THAN "WOOL
TEX" PRE-SHRUNK WASH SKIRTS.
THEY FIT GOOD THEY LOOK GOOD AND THEY WEAR
l'.....i:U.. 6I
''ll'iJ 'Tic
if
Y
