jgPM ONjULY 4TH, SOMETHING DOING ON THAT DAY 1
rt I, rnmh advertising value In I vSfeSSBSO ADVERTISE ', JH
-Vnn The merchant who tins Ml I I j3Z4JZCfZltttL .S.wvVflflA 1 vW" fc' ' a. v a. a. ., . . ii flflai
""m p t h horseshoes In M yard IK I I ffl 111? 1flflklllEc 4i $fcl '3feifc Kv,r Mor. has mmi. mc who Is 'NflB
JW.fc,,irp or to in Halting 11 II 1 II II J ftKCmWSt lJ ll ill lJK ill more or lew. Interested In pushing the flfl
f V Sn t ticiucr ill POLITIC Al I V pn-Di mi ioam rlnl wn h tnn "mk" ,,f ,h"t ,,U111- HHI
rtMb ' un"VAf,vltc,P,yir -. .. rULI I IUMLLY, KLHUdLIUAIN. nes-i n en decided enlargement nnd '"
fr The mora. .s-ADVKUT.Hl, 2-T,'Sr,",,,1:C,aM M",,,?r JUn "U J"'- '"- ". " the Act of Mjjrch 3. U7 """" " " '"" m"th,d "" ' :
3- "" ' XUhn " EVERY FRIDAY JUNE .K). 191(5 i
lillAiTliEi
raMKET
iffMITrt MIMIAIi AND PHICCS
nilll CCOIlDIMILY.
jtpr (.niilo IMil hli-nd), anil Short
rnl and 'rn ''nt f,',,rr Wert Off
I rrntfHi lo Tlilrt-rivi Cent
I Prmand I'or Miivp Int W'cik Win
fl ((PUunlw t'niti'r II Cent.
fl wfun Special Hervlc
I KAXXA8 CITY. Mo., June 26 The
ir in mltlc prices most of hint
rr,k m downward Itccclpl wcre
I iVwt, quality showed n plainer cuse
H ttJ killers Increased lllo spread In
pet accordlngl) Prime grade
yjj ittil, and ntiort fed and grass
(it tfs were off twcn'V'flvo to
lUtr-flte cent Thin dccllno rnuicd
fl i tilling off In tha movement today
9 ul moderate strcnglh npprarcd In
fl Irani Hen receipt vvero ihnc
itwund trim thnn n wiek nKo mid
I tit time ns u )cnr ngo. Mont of tin
fl jrv fal and short feel steers sold ut
llU ti ' 0, and hotter Kradcn
ifMlM l"6 to tiO.GO. NulhltiK
fl icirtljr prime unit offered On the
fl Mrinllno elite meerit told nt IC 00
flu II IS With uhent hnnenl well
fl ittt J In Kouthvrn Knnwn, nnd
fl ifrttdlnir nnrllmnrd, nnd Tlleida) of
H 'it week u mitloniil holldit), 'om
awkin mm ay MilpplleM will hu
til until nrnrl the middle or Jul)
j and hclfirn huo not uluiiiKed
Ah in prlro nnd todu they Hint
a tcthe demimd Vrul inheN lire
fJIlnK 17 00 to 111.00 lllld liUll
llll to II 00 ThU Ik ii Hlutk eHMn
4 rtock and feidlmc cuttle, hut the
i offtrrd ire flndliiK n ready out
AH 17 : lo lit. &0,
Dtmiml for nheep lui-t ek man
,tltf. hut today klllcra touk off
n(nl-.flve to flfl cpnu nnd put the
&.t Hit for Inmhii under eleven
ntu. Tho hulk of the offering lo
tor ami from Hut Houthn'tut nnd
'Niirlnn InmliH that nold ut 110. IS
Milt 15 fnmi I lipped ewen hrotiKhl
H H
(JiIcii Iln)i4 Wnllact' Herd.
0IUNI) Jl'NCTION, Colo.. June
.1 A drat una coniuinmuted Ihla af
wooon by uhlch Chnrlea II. Wiillln
Upok-J of hla entlm herd of luep
'WltfrT llonten. There were two
tawnnd hind of uwex nnd their
aati In the flock, hut the purolianu
crk nut atated. WnllU renlKtied
U office n chief of pollen hint fall
t to Into thu atieup IiiiiiIiU'ik. He
biannouwed no plmiN for the fu
ttft
Miwii Onlentt I)IihnI.
An onhr to dip nil tho ahoep In the
MW the eradication of tit kt him
tn lued hy iho atnte. hoard of
wp rummuudonera. The ordtr atlp
llr Umt Dm nnlmnla mint ho dip
4 Wmem July ICtli nnd fktoher
'lh of ihu .Ar, All aluep hrouKht
'tto ihn mate during; Hint limn mum
dlplN-ll llUl.
lorii nitooi) i.v hi:i.
It l rt ported that lonvlderahlo foul
d mimii nmonir thn In en In lu
and 1'lntnh vountha, nnd Mme
WarUta are ronMlderahly alarmed nt
danrer of Iho dlnvano apreadlnB
J InflltlliiK n aerloua Ion to the
') Induairy,
ill NffiK 1T.NIEI
t Smaful lliiiv Iii)h' SiIoii
ihu IiiiIimI IuinI 1'rlilii).
WW v, June 21 The mint am
"ul and InlertHlliiK three-da)'
J'Wun of the Utah Hunker niwoola
"on a. (omluded elerdn). The
Mnt ihaptur of thu otiaalon vtu a
fe nt litrtlmnii Hall on TwenD
'"unh mreet thin uflernoon, In which
f ihn ileicKiite and tholr wive
Inlt'd Kuent partlclputed At
w mm lualon of Ihn wwlon thin uf
itjioihi uutomohllea wero furnlahed
M the nitora wuro tiikon on n trip
'Woiuli iho miinufncturliiB nnd real
tll purtliuu of tho tlty,
''ill era oltileit for tho enauliiB
ro i;iiai A. Hmltli of Halt Uke
yV, prealdent, J. a. M. UnriiM f
yiMlle, firm vre prenldenti J. It.
""Mock of Heber, aooond lco priiil
"t, ana J. n. Hhepnrd of Ixigan, aco
"Jr nijd IriuHurer, The cxecutlt
.."J'ltw olected a nore two cara
" w U Hrtreton of I'roio. ('. H.
'rtun of Oifden and N. H. Nell n of
11 Jlfaant.
The a0ilriaeii at tho different aia
"o wire well received hy tho delo
::,? "-Pulal emphaal helim nen
"J tn ppcnkcr to banking nnd allied
""rent it ttfts t,i,own that tho
?nr ahouid bo united with all the
""r rommcrclnl Interns! of tho
i and should lend encouragement
" farmer, tho stockcrower und
'ioth(r lines of enterprise lhat mako
ur Krtater commonw'eaUh
A Kood uy tl, KOt jho tonfldtmo of
Wnido Is to Keep sajlnjr that what
frid U the sort of sluff lhat will
""ibliii, ooniidence.
i
EAGER FOR THE JOB.
(WHICH 5HALL I w , -1Z
PROGRAM IF SPORTS AND EXERCISES '
TO IE HELD AT PRICE JUL! FOURTH
Simrine Salute. Unfurling of tho Stars and Stripes over every
homo In the city. L. A. McGeo, Marnlinl of the Day, MIhh
Flora Ie, Godde.sH of Liberty.
8:!I0 A. M. Parade forms on AIhIh street at the corner by the
residence of Mayor Hontlcy.
0:00 A. M. Parade startu up Main street and counter marches,
reaching Fnir Grounds at 10:00 a. m.
10:00 A. M. Exercises at the Park.
Selection by the Price Concert Hand.
Invocation by Rev. Oscar Smith.
Solo, "Hail Columbia," Miss Lora Harmon with band ac
companiment. The Stamp Act Congress, 1.') States represented, October
7, 17G5.
Patrick Henry's speech La Selie Whitmore.
Re-enactment of Rattle of Lexington, April 19, 177C.
Singing, "America," by the congregation led by Seymour
Prows, with band accompaniment.
Reading of the Declaration of Independence, John Potter.
Signing of the Declaration of Indejondcnce.
Serenade by martial band.
Patriotic reading MIks Isabelle Mtzgerald.
11 :!J0 A. M. Oration of the Day, Hon. Win. II. King of Salt Lake.
l"-00 M Singing, "The Star Spangled Banner," by the assembly
led by Seymour Prows, with band accompaniment.
12:00 M to 1 P. M. Lunch nt City Park.
1-00 to 2:00 P. M. Boys' Races
Boys' lelay race, half mile, five Iwys in each team.
One hundred ynrd dash.
Boy Scout race, half mile, at scout pace. (Tills rncc should
be run in exactly twelvo minutes and the bpy going the
distance nearest to twelve minutes will win.)
Broad jump.
Running high jump.
Pole vault.
2:00 P. M. Children's sports at City Park.
''.'10 P. M. Men's Racos
One hundred yard dash, free for all.
One hundred yard dash fat men, 200 pound or over. f
Half mile walk, free for all.
Bicycle race.
8:00 P. M. Ball game. Price vs. Cabtle Gate.
4:20 P. M. Motorcycle race, five miles.
7 'no P M to 8:00 P. M. Band concert downtown.
7' Cast e Gate band led by Glen Reese.
Price Concert Band led by A. Burgener.
0:30 P. M. to 1 :30 A. M.-Grand Ball at City Hall. Music by Price
Orchestra.
xmn,n T,, n.irfttio will be led by Mayor A. W. Horsley and
N87imTm II St orator of the day. Tho next auto uill
SlnKiW councU ft"d the" Wi" f0,,W thC
SSOdW'lm been secured to assist the
Castle Gut easp enJJJ fSng mu8ic for the day. Prizes wil!
Price Conceit Band miurm k Irn)5rtant events in
be awarded for " j J bo given for the best decorated
iZSfo' $10: second, $5, and third, two of
2,5T?netrtls for nil floats must bo made by 10 o'clock Monday morn
bir ?! ?SS oJnderion. chairman of the parade committee.
RAILROAD ARDUCAR FACfOKV
I'iihtj llou-lcr TelN or Thins I'mni
I ii I I'or Ijii-lirn I'mli.
The building of n sugar hi el fat lory
In l.'nur) couiil), loge'.her with tho
(onmructlon of more thnn lxt mllea
of rallrond, Ihut tha Denver nnd llu
Grande may op n up Iho htct ruining
wedun from I'rko throiiah Ciutlo
Dale, Omngellle mid other towns In
Kmery count) to Kmery Is nssurid,
na Hu- rinflilnlii compniiy hns ce
cured tho slgnntures of farmers In
Hint seitlon of tint slato lo agreements
for more than seunty-flo hundred
nircs to ho dewited lo growing heels
next enr Ira II, drowning nf Caslta
Dale, u mrmlttr of Iho leglxlnture
from Kmery t until), Ih nl the Hold
Utah and declare Ihut the vxpi rl
ment furms coiuliiiti.il hy Tlmmns II.
Aumln nnd others connected will) thn
Htah-Idnho Sugar lompnny In thnt
section hao In en morn than succeas
fill, sns Iho llerald-llepublliuii,
Thu contrails entered Into by farm-
rs provide for a sliding scato for tha
hi els product d and nlno for n mini
mum of tonnage. It require five
Hiousand ncres In aupport it lieet fao
lory, hut ll Iiiih Ikoii drclnred In Mr,
Drowning hy representatives of ihu
lompnn), Ihn! Ihu ucreagn algned for
Is grruti r Hum required nnd that ut
least one-fourth will be devoted to
producing heel nmI, as ll has been
found thai the climate, tho water nnd
tho conditions am rlgh! In Hint section
for producing seed.
While Iho Denver nnd Itln (irnndu
has mudo mirves Into thu section
south of Trice nnd Huntington, It has
not mndit u survey to Kmery, but It
Is vuld Ihut more thnn two thousand
acres of beets In that purl of Kmery
county arc signed by farmers. Drown
ing declares an agreement has been
reached between thu sugar company,
the farmers and Ihn railroad whereby
Ihn line will bit bull! lo Kmcr. Ilo
sa)s this section of tha stale has pro
duced u greuttr lonnngu lo thn aire
In sugar In els thnn any other par!
and lhat Ihn aied la of groaler valuo
than tho sugar since all of Hie sugar
companies In th. United States with
Iho oxieptlon of thu Utah-Idaho cum
pan), nrn depindenl on the suppl)
from Kuropc,
CITY COUNCIL YET UNDECIDED US TO "
1 OPERATION OF THE ELECTRIC PLANT
The illy council met In spiclal sen
slon Tuesday night. .Mii)or lloraley
presiding nnd nil members being pres
ent. Tho specific purposo of Ihu
meeting was to give furthir consider
ation lo Ihu operation of Ihu electric
light plant. As Ma)or Horsley stated
It, thu only object of tho council was
to malntaliiithu highest ifflclnnc) at
thu lowest (ipsslbln Operating expense.
Whether this can bet bo obtained by
tho elty opcru 'ngtlu plant or by pur
chasing current at wholewilo and dls-i
trllmtlng It through tho clt s)stem'
Is u iuemlon on )et undccldeiTn Tho,
(alter propoaition, however, -tiipeurs
to huvo fur thu best of thi argument ,
1 Thu existing opirallng and main
tenanii contract oxplres Juno 30th,
honco something had to bo dono us a
temporary expedient In view of tills
a motion prevulled lo employ J II
Manson to operate and maintain tho
plant nt a, cost of eight hundred dol-
ttNGSSIFUHHV
Mb I lorn I Schilcil ll t'oininll
t Mondii) Mglit.
At n mietlng of the fourth of Jul)
lommlttce Monda) evening It wns itc
cidid to drop thiKvotlng for Iho most
popular lad) forKodihM of lllx rl) on
Ihn I'ourth nnfl uooim one from
among Hie )ouuirlliilleH of Ihn ell),
Hu voting having been going on for
wvenil iilghta nt the Kko theater
The committee dicldid to in led MIm
I'liirn l.oc lo net In thnt cnpnclhi'
The Castle Hate ImiiiiI having ex
pressed n wllllngnemi In be In 1'rlce on
the rmil til, thn committee hns derid
ed to Invite them, ngnelng In pn)
Ihilr expinses. This Willi Hie I'rlcii
iirgiinltotlon will mnke two hnnds
lino on Hint dn) The I'rlev orches
tra will furnish muslo for the dance
In th" evening During Hie evening
from 7 to X o'cliHk there will h it
iiinrirt nt Hie Clt) I'nrk In which
both bands will participate.
The refreshment commlttte- decided
In dlsHse of their iiuicisslons on lhat
day lo some one, who would lake litem
off Hislr hands, mid nut hotlur with
tint serving.
A, J l.cc was niilhorlred In tr) und
get Unstlo (lain nnd HuntDsldu lo phi)
ball hero on thnt dn) lie proinl.nl
to do nil ho could lo hi lug Hit in to
gether. Huinslhlng like Hireu hundred mid
twent)flvr dollnrs hns been colletled
In donations nnd this ulreiuly hns
bieu npporlloiud to Ihu different
committees. Hhould there U any
miine left after all hills aru paid It
Will go to thu Sltlt celebration
UII.I'OHD SMITH'S COMPANY
OHHIiltlEH 1 't m: HOIIDim
Wllford Hmltli, sou of Mr unit Mrs
II C Hmltli of rrlce, who Is serving
III the I list lonst urtlller) corps, In
writing his parents In Price lella of
the movement of his compuii) In n
riteiit bttir On June 17th his com
pnii) tell llosloii for I'orl Ham Hous
ton, Tex, where they wilt report to
(leiicrnt I'liimton for elut) on Hie Imr
eh r Just before his eompnii) left
I'urt Hlrong, Mass., ten men of tho
company. Intituling Hmlth, wtro or
dered out fur duly on mi ordnance
bout Their duties will hu to Iny mid
titko up mines along thn cons! for it
short time, when they will Join their
comrades nt Ihu lorder. After leaving
Port Hlrong )oung Hmltli went on thn
mine planter ordnance boat lo Now
Iindon, Conn., mid from thero to
J'orl Tnlton, New York City, whero
tin was when hu hist wrote lln stalls
lhat he has taken In nolle it numhi r
of sights In Now York Clt) mid whllo
there had looked thn statue of the
god Iiiih of liberty Xpuircl) In the
face '
DffllCHOIT
franks I'lewls Not Utility nnd Ills
Ciim Is Coutliiucil,
District tourt has been In session
lha past week nnd numerous cases
havn been disposed of. A recess will
he taken at Iho end or this week until
lifter Ihu fourth, when Juilgo Chris
linson will again resume court he-re
In thu meantime he und Court Hten
ogrnphcr Alder will spend the holi
day n! their home In Mnntl,
In thn case of the' statu ugalnst C.
A. Krunks, charged with Indecent as
sault lommllttd several da)s ago, the
difendant appeared In court und en
ti'tod a plea of not guilt) to Hie
charge Ills case wus continued for
thn term. Ho Is out on bonds of two
thousand dollar
Thu case of I C Hulllviin against
D. It. McDonald Is before the court
today on a hearing of thn report as to
tho partnership buslnesss heretofore
existing between tho parties
Kvu llumphruy wus granted it ill
vorio from Thomus (I. Humphrey and
custody of their minor ehlld.
Prank Dellosit wus granted uit In
terlocutory decree of divorce from
Antoueltn Diltosn
Inrs per month, commencing July 1st,
until such limn as definite) arrange
ment are made. Thu service to be
rendend will ho nlong the general
lines of thu existing contract, nnd will
also Include Ihu operation of tho city
waterworks pump, thu Insinuation of
niivv meters and thu testing of all me
ters now Inslallcd. This will bo a net
saving of about a hundred and fifty
dollars a month over thu present op
erating contract.
In the event tho city should declda
to purchase current from the Utah
I'owtr and Light company at whole
sale It will take ninety dnys to con
struct tho line and Install tha noccs
sar) equipment.
Thero Is sonic advertising that la
worse than none Thero are somo ad
vertisers who would profit by saying
nothing rather lhan by saying what
Ihcy do say. The best way to do a
thing Is to do It properly
ROMPED AWAY BY l
SCDRETEN-THHEE I
TUP. ".IIN" H Slll.t, WITH Tilt: 'H
Siiuii)sldc lii. Over IxkiiU In Last llflVj
Hiimln)'N (lami Sninll Crowd Onl
lei Wltuevs Oni'-Hlehil Affair i:r- jH
reii-H Wi'it Mini) II) Homo Idtds All 'flflj
thniugh tho (Inmi', HJ
In the Curium Count) league last J
Hunda) on Hie I'rlen diamond Hunii)" . 'HHJ
side agitlti won over Ihu houin team jHH
b) it score of tin to three. The garni J :IH
wns n very onesided affair from Iho f Jl
start. HiitiiDsldn scoring three runs In flflj
Die first Inning mid just kept It up IH
during the gnmn. scoring when they flflj
felt like It. HovveVer, I'rlcii made a "
noble elfort, Tlngley getting it three H
bugger mid Inter scoring, und White mHII
and llnlllnger each getting 11 run, flflj
In Hu gnme between Helper and flj
Cnstlo (lain on Hie Helper diamond HHl
Hie latter team won over thn rail HH
roadtra h it neon of eighteen to one. flflj
following Is tho score of the 1'rlce IB
and Hiinn)sldu game flflj
1'itioi:. ?iflV
AH It II I'O A I! i LflflJ
Ihillliigir. Ih I I 0 10 0 0 t lflfl
Hums. lb. we 3 n I 2 C ' '
Tingle), ur .. t I 3 3 0 0 flflj
White, i' . 4 I 0 7 t 3
(lreili.tr. et. 3h. Jl. 4 ll I I 4 3 flflj
liemnrill. ir . o n o o 1 ' flH
C Averlll. If . I i) 0 0 0 0 'iflfljl
Ward, sm . I o o o' 0 1 flflj
Me (lee, rf I0O011 Vfll
Harris, rf 3I I n 1 o 4 1 i 'flflj
T Am i 3 0 10 3 0 i fflH
33 3 0 37 lit 15 I . jfVfl
HU.S'.S'YHIDi:. II flVJ
All It II I'O A K i I flflj
Uutrull, ss . . . 6 3 I I 3 I 'flflj
Dorse Ii, 31 & I I 0 3 0 I I 'IflflJ
(Ireeli, tr 430000 , 'LflflJ
.Nudum, cf, p . . . C I 3 3 0 0 fflflj
Curry. 3h C 0 1 0 I 1 efflflfl
Kirstrn, p, cf ... B 3 1 I 3 0 -j-lflflj
Hums. II 3 0 0 0 0 "'SflflJ
Detwcllcr. rf ... I 1 3 0 0 0 fl 'fflflj
Nelson, l 3 I 0 13 3 0 Jf'lwflJ
31) 10 13 37 11 3 Mllfll
Hcore b) Innings if 4 flflj
1331607111' J ! flflj
Hunil)lde 3 3 I 0 0 0 VI 310 I aljn flflj
Trill .10010000 13 lit flflj
Hummar) Karneel runs, 1'rlce li j firflfl
sacrifice hits, Durns nnd Kvuns; two- j vl AflH
base hit, Nndeuii; three-bitsn hit, Tin- iH
gley, stolen buses, Nadcnii, While: ! 'CJH
first huso on balls, off Kerston 1, off 4flflA
Averlll 1; strurk out hy Kersten 10, 'rflflfl
by Nadraii I, hy Averlll 4; left on I'flflfl
bases, Hunn)slele C, I'rlci C; passed 1 flflfl
lisfll. White; first husa on errors, Hun- kflfljfl
ID side' ti, 1'rlce 3; lilt hy pitcher, Nel- flflfl
son 1 1) Averlll, llmo 3 30, umpires, Vflfl
Turner and Welch , j ', Aflfl
hciii:i)i'i.i: roit tiii: kiumi.v : llflflfll
Ol' CAIIIION COUNTY MlACUi: ! jflflfll
July 3 1'rlce a! flunn)sldo. Castle ' j SSjVJvJ
(late at Helper. u 'Iflfljfll
Jul) 4 Castl Onto nt Price. Hun- I jH
iDslde nt Helper. Y IflflflJ
July 9 I'rlca nt Hunn)slde, Helper f jfflflfl
at Castle Gate. nsflflfl
July 18 Hunn)lile nl Cnitle Date, iiflflfll
Helper at Price. ififlflfll
July 33 Castle Oate nt Price, llel- NlVflfl
per at Hunnysldo, ''.'4 wJIJ
July SI Helper nt Price, Hunn- l-'flfll
slda at Cnitlo Oate. c'iilflflfl
July 30 Price at Hiinn)lile. Castle (YllflBfll
Gate at Helper. j
August 0 Prlco nl Castle Gale, t, a Sfljflfl
HiiniDsldo ut Helper, llflflfll
August 13 Castle Onto at Bunny- iiflflfll
side, Helper at Price, tluflflfll
August 30 Hunn)slde nt Price, Hcl- I JpflBflfl
per at Castle Gate. rf. i Tflflfll
August 37 Custlo. Onto lit Hunuy- ) ' flflflj
sldn, Price nt Helper. f JflflflJ
Heptembor 3 Price nt Helper, Sun- L l fiflflflj
li)sldo at Castle Gate 3 ij- SHflflJ
l,M DOXHIl l,()NK lll KiNlflflVi
hPATI. A Ql'Alllim .MILLION J i'fH
That the state board of laud com- j ffKnlflflflJ
ni :nerH has on hand 1550,000, I fs'kj SflflJ
which can bu loftiud on first. class I fl HIH
security to rarmers, and that appllcn- i 2'' J flflfl
lions for this amount have bcei, re- f i Jj IB
celved, develo)id Thursday when the h,-l flflfl
stale board of loan iiommlssloners i flfljH
visited the land board and sought to J v jDflfl
borrow 1350,000 at 5 per tent until l'i$ flflfl
December 31st to meet it hand Issue, sllMflBfl
pu) rolls and similar obligations. fljDlMflfl
Thu land Itoard had 1800,000 when 'tralHflfl
Iho loan commissioners mado their iirotllVflBJ
request, and nfler a discussion thu RtSkflHI
land board grantnd the desired loan. ?BlSflHfl
The Interest will go toward thn statu RaUIHflJ
land school fund, Jjfc3$BBB
The land board's next regular W fflflfl
meeting would bo Jul) 4th, but be- 91 fflflfl
euusu of tho holiday It has been post- rmM Iflflfl
poned to July 6th, at which time the mM iflflfl
Delta I .und and Water compuny will 3fF flflfl
file an official and complete request fj iflflfl
for iho land ll tlfslrc-s under the Carey 1 Sflfli
tlMRUflfl
All the dlfferenro bolvvcon good and j HOTflflJ
bad advertising Is the Judgmont that JkJJHJV
permits tho bad nnd tho Intelligent j flflfljH
business sense which prompts the VflflflJ
flfljflfl
