THIRTIETH YEAR
CHAMBER WILL
ARRANGE LAST
VISIT TO CAMP
'Wive* and Mothers of Guardsmen
Will Be Taken There in
Autos
The Aberdeen Chamber of Com
merce lias made arrangements for a
farewell trip to be made to American
lake by wives, mothers and other near
relatives of the members of Company
G, before that organization's depart
ure for the Mexican border. Presi
dent A. C. Gaillac and others are re
quisitioning autos from many citi
zens. in which the trip will be made
Immediately upon notice that the boys
must go to the front.
TALKS TO PYTHIANS
E. A. Davis, mayor of Pasco, de
livered a fine address on the early
history of Pythianism last Monday
night before the local lodge of Knights
of Pythias. In addition, for the
lodge's annual memorial exercises,
there was a fine musical program un
der direction of Mrs. W. V. Croxall.
FORESTERS AT OFFUT LAKE
Three hundred Foresters went to
Offut lake Sunday on the annual picnic
excursion of the order and, despite
rains through the day, had a fine time.
EPTON-WEAVER
Miss May Weaver became the bride
of Andrew Epton, last Friday evening,
the ceremony taking place at the
home of the groom's parents, Mr. and
Mrs. J. E. Epton, Ix 6 West Fourth
street.
BIG SPLASH
OPENS HERE
NEXT WEEK
Monday Will See Start of Grand Pageant in Honor
of Independence Day, and Local Moose
Lodge Is All Ready for
Celebration
THREE DAYS GIVEN TO WHOLESOME FUN
Parades, Water Sports, Field Day and Skidroad
Carnivatl Vie as Attractions
The fourth Grays Harbor Annual
Splash will open next Monday in Ab
erdeen. and for three days the city
will give itself over to fun of the
wholesome order. Already the busi
ness streets have taken on a Fourth of
July aspect, gay with flags and bunt
ing, and many merchants have taken
time by the forelock and are decorat
ing now instead of waiting until Sat
urday night or Sr- I <i<\
The local lodge has worked
hard In preparing for the Splash. The
program will be fully equal to any
given in former years, and, starting
with the opening day, Monday, July
3, there will be something doing
every minute.
Memorable Day for Children.
The children's parade will .take place
at 9 o'clock Monday morning, and
that will be the formal opening of
the festivities. It will be a memorable
day for the children and their par
ents. The assembling of all these lit
tle one and young grown-ups from all
Antarctic Motion
Pictures Feature
Chautauqua Here
In securing the marvelous motion
pictures that will be shown at the
Chautauqua, opening here July 15,
Sir Dougla's Mawson, the young Aus
tralian scientist, fought enemies as
dangerous as the machine guns—or
even dumdum bullets, in the ant
arctic he waged a war as dangerous
as the war being fought on European
battlefields today.
Only in the Antarctic they never
meet face to face and they never
have a chance to fire back. It is the
frost that penetrates your body and
cripples you for the long tramp: It
is the blizzard that, blinds you till
you lose the trail; it is the treaeher
" cms hidden crevasse.all covered with
snow into which one unsuspecting
step may plunge you and your
down into unending space from which
there is no return. Lack of food,
scurvy, lonesomeness—these and a
dozen otV r hardship- make exploring
in the Antarctic-extremely dangerous
and hazardous.
Godwin Is In Hoquiam
Evangelist Tack Godwin, who lield
a series of revival meetings here, now
is conducting a revival in Honuinm.
assisted by his wife, to whom he re
cently was married in Vancouver.
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
ELECTING A PRESIDENT
i
WASHINGTON.
THE first presidents were
chosen by electors who
were chosen by the legis
latures of the various states.
The person having the majority
of these electors was declared
president. The person having
the next greatest number was
declared vice president.
The first election took place on
Jan. 7, 1789, in the states that
bad ratified the constitution.
The electors chose the president
on Feb. 4, 1781). The vote, count
ed on April (J, 1781). was:
George Washington. 60: John
Adams, 34; Samuel Huntington,
2; John Jay. 0; John Hancock,
4; It. H. Harrison, 0: George
Clinton, 3; John Itutleilge, 0:
John Milton, 2: James Arm
strong, 1: Edward Telfdlr, 1:
Benjamin Lincoln, 1. Ten states
voted, but there is no record of
the popular vote.
11l the election of 1792 Wash
ington received 132 votes and
Adams 77.
(Watch for the election of Adama
in 1796 in our next issue.)
parts of the county reflects credit
upon the city and upon the men and
women who planned the pageant. The
committee, of which Dr. Lawrence
Hopkinson is chairman and Rev. T.
H. Simpson, secretary, has worked up
a big event in the children's parade
and in the sports for children that, on
the same day, will take place on Stew
art Field.
The Rose Carnival and Rose show,
too, are events to make the opening
day noteworthy. This will be the first
Rose show to be given for all Grays
Harbor and will be a wealth of
beautiful flowers, for which a score
or more of silver cups are offered as
prizes.
Monday evening there will be a ten
round boxing bout at Eagles hall, Bil
ly Weeks, Canadian middleweight
champion, and Ivan Miller of Tacoma
being principals. This will be fast
and furious; and there is no certainty
that the Canadian, who has not been
'Continued on Pago Eight)
MAYOR WANTS
TO SEE ANOTHER
COMPANY HERE
A second company should be form
ed in Aberdeen, in the opinion of
Mayor J. M. Phillips, who says he
would enlist in it himself. This com
pany. Phillips declares, should be in
readiness long before needed, in event
more troops will be required for the
Mexican trouble.
VISITING IN EAST
Mrs. G. Snurr departed Monday for
St. Paul, Minn., to visit, there and
in other cities for a few months.
The Best Kin Jo;' Woman to Marry.
You take a tip from me. sou. When
yoti marry. i.a ii >; :e w.>i."an
woman w'.u.V will ng t.> hang a ''Go:l
Bless Our Home" n on the wall
without making funny cracks bbout it
—E. Uaui-iv iu American Magu::ine
SCANDAL.
Ce too bread minded to en f
courage ih* sin of scer.da!
When oossin begins to relate
sorr.e sca'.cl. ! »n your pre?o~co
say to him. "Come: let us 90 to
that person and sea if t ie story
is true!" Hann h "'ore. the
English author always followed
that eourse. and «t never failed
to work.
George
iWashington
Elected
First
President
In
1789.
If any reader of these lines lias ever visited a foreign country, has been a stranger in some far away place
over the ocean, he may remember the feeling of joy, of pride, that came to him when he first saw the Stars
and Stripes floating over the consulate.
One writer says he remembers some years ago walking down the Bois de Boulogne In Paris. Just ahead of
him was a regulation man of the world, and yet something about him indicated that at one time or another
he had lived in America. He walked slowly down the avenue until all of a sudden from the second-story of a
building at the right there were flung to the breeze the silken folds of a beautiful specimen of the American
flag. The man of the world saw it. In a second his silk hat was off his head, and despite the onlookers he gave
three as lusty cheers for the Stars and Stripes as ever came from an American throat. As the writer reached
him he turned about and with tears rolling down his cheeks said, "I did not know that the sight of anything
could touch me like that." mm
Celebrate the Fourth with all proper patriotic fervor, but celebrate sanely. Be willing to lay down life or
limb for your country, but do not sacrifice either to make a holiday.
The tabulated records of the deaths and injuries on July 4, 1915. show that over half of the injuries In
cities were in New York and Philadelphia. In the eighty-four cities tabulated 806 persons were injured. Of these
New York was responsible for 272 and Philadedphia for 280, making a total of 552 for these two cities alone,
while only 254 persons were injured in the other eighty-two cities. In Chicago, which in 1907 had sixteen persons
killed and 202 persons injured, there were in 1915 only eight Fourth of July accidents. Curiously enough, how
ever, of these five were fatal, giving Chicago, in spite of its remarkably low record for injuries, the largest
number of.deaths of any of the eighty-four cities, five deaths in Chicago being half of the total number of
fatalities in cities.
POSTPONES WALLACE DECISION ONE WEEK
COUNCIL REFERS PETITION FOR CITY OFFICIAL'S DISCHARGE
The day ct reckoning—or of exon
eration, as the event may prove —
for Plumbing inspector F. G. Wallace,
charged with unpatriotic utterances
concerning the departure of Co. G
2nd Reg. N. G. W., was put off a
week by action of the city council
Wednesday ni-ht. How the council
is lined up in the matter was not
clearly indicated. Councilman E. E.
Wleland showed that the customary
procedure in cases such as the pe
tition presented by Company G de
manding Wallace's discharge was to
refer the matter for a week. He
moved that the petition be tabled.
Councilman W. J. Egerer moved that
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON. FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1916.
The Star Spangled "Banner—
%
Long May It tOat)e
ONE HUNDRED year* ago marked the beginning of th* war of 1812, • conflict which waa made memora
ble by the successss of the American forces on the seaa and which toward its close gave rise to the
incident that led to the wr.ting of "The Star Spangled Banner." the eong now generally regarded aa our
national anthem. Thie poem was wr.tten by Francis Scott Key. an attorney who had gone to the British
fleet in Chesapeake bay under a flag of truce in an effort to arrange for the release of a prisoner of war.
" d,Ul " ,d ® n board ••hip while he attack was made on Baltimore, Sept. 10. 1814. The flag
was still flying when darkness hid the scene, jnd toward morning the firing ceased Key knew that the
battle wa* over, but he did not know which side was victorious, and while'pac' ng the d«k of ?he Britiah
vessel in restlees anxiety he thought of the theme and composed most of the lines of "The Star Bpangled
Banner." Whan dawn came he saw ths flag still waving. "
HATS OFF TO THE FLAGS-CELEBRATE SANELY!
ALL MUST GET TOGETHER AND WORK.
it be referred to the police commit
tee for a week. Wieland's motion lost
10 to 2, Egerer's carried unanimously.
The little parliamentary skirmish;
gave little indication of what will
happen next Wednesday. An indica
tion that citizens expect something
to happen, however, was furnished by
the presence of an audience that filled
the council chambers to the doors.
The council adopted an ordinance
providing that at all future meetings
the first business shall be the un
furling and saluting of the American
flag, council and citizens present ris
ing and standing at attention during
the ceremony. A beautiful silk flag
—werr/man in Washington Star.
of large size, presented the city by
Councilman Kr orer. was unfurled, the
; council and audience—with four ex
ceptions among the latter —risiiis dur
ing the operation; and the flag was
placed on the wall behind the mayor's
• chair.
Opening of bids for a larjje amount
of supplies for the Wishkah project
was laid over until Friday night at
7:30. to allow of a few bids which
the city engineer is expecting by mail,
. being received.
The Grays Tlarbor Hardware com
pany bid, $1,136.69 on furnishing 800
feet of S-inch steel wrought pipe; and
(Continued on page 5)
ELECTING A PRESIDENT
18
T:IK Democrats with Wood
row Wilson came back to
power in the election of
l'Jl'J. The Itepublican conven
tion in Chicago nominated Taft.
who was now opposed bitter
ly by Koosevelt. There were
many contested delegates, and
those In authority senteil a ma
jority of delegates with Tuft
proclivities.
Koosevelt had many warm sup
porters and was im avowed can
didate. When Taft was nomi
nated Koosevelt formed the Pro
gressive party and ran on the
third ticket.
The vote In li»12 was: Wilson.
(i.293.01!>: Koosevelt. 4.119.607:
Taft. 3.484.95 H. Wilson received
435 votes in the electoral college.
Roosevelt 88 and Taft 8. Thom
as R. Marshall of Indiana was
elected vice president.
CROWDS BID
GOODB YE TO
GUARDSMEN
Thousands Gather at Union Depot Here to Say
Farewell to Company G as Members of
Local Militia Company Start for /
American Lake
CHEERY MESSAGES FIGHT DOWN GRIEF
Patriotic Songs, Band Music and Speeches, While
Wives and Mothers Weep.
Between 4,000 and 5,000 people were
assembled at the Union depot in Ab
erdeen, Sunday, to say goodbye to Co.
G, 2nd Reg., N. G. W., on its depart
ure for American lake. It likely was
the largest crowd ever gathered at
the depot. It certainly was the most
profoundly affected assemblage that
has been seen in Aberdeen.
For but too many in the crowd,
wives, mothers and children of the
soldier boys, it was an occasion over
which they had sorrowed in advance.
Before the train had pulled out, the
sight of these sad faced women strug
gling bravely against expression of
their feelings had brought home to
every person the solemnity of the
event. Aberdeen's home boys, only
too probably, were going to war.
Nevertheless there were cheery mes
sages and merry farewells, too. The
soldier boys were men and if they,
also, felt the strain, none would show
BRADNERSAYS
NAVAL MILITIA
IS SURE TO GO
That tlie Fourth Division, Naval
Militia, will be called out in the Mex
ican trouble is the firm conviction of
Lieut. E, A. Bradner. He says that
his command is all ready to go, and
that special drills have been held for
some time to show the boys how to
start on a few hours' notice.
PATRIOTISM
By SIR WALTER SCOTT
Breathes there the man with soul so
dead
Who never to himself hath said,
This is my own. my native land;
Whose heart hath ne'er within him
burned,
As home his footsteps he hath turned
From wandering on a foreign strand?
if such there breathe, go, mark him
well,
For him no minstrel raptures swell;
High though his titles, proud his
name,
Boundless his wealth as wish can
claim,
Despite those titles, power and pelf,
The wretch, concentered all in self.
Living, shall forfeit fair renown
And doubly dying, shall go down
To the vile dust from whence he
sprung,
Unwept, unhonored and unsung.
Parttcalar Printers, Aberdeer
Printing Co., 309 East Wishkah St
DEPOSITS IN
POSTOFFICE
HERE $113,140
Aberdeen in May Ranked 63rd Among,
the Cities of the United
States
Party
Split
Helped
Wilson
In
1912.
Deposits in the Aberdeen postoffic«
on May 31 were $113,140, making it
rank 63rd in amount of postal deposits
in the United States. There were but
72 cities in the United States and
possessions with over $100,000 depos
its.
! A postal sub-station soon will be
located in the West End to be known
as No. 3, announces Postmaster John
iJ. Carney. It will be in the grocery
store of B. F. Rausch, 2304 Simpson
avenue. Stamps and money orders will
be sold and letters registered, but
!no mail will be accepted for dis
patch.
Home Guard for Montesano
Montesano is to have a "hom»
guard" of trained riflemen, under
plans now under way for formation
of a branch of the National Rifle as
sociation. The plan is to train the
members not only in shooting but in
military tactics as well, in event of a
call for more volunteer troops.
MANASSES DEPART
Mr. and Mrs. M. Manasse departed
Monday for their home in San Fran
cisco, after visiting at the' home of
Mr. and Mrs. Isidore Kaufman here.
MRS. KAUFMAN HOME
Mrs. Sam G. Kaufman and children
returned Sunday from Tacoma after
several weeks' visit there.
it. They simply were doing their duty
as they saw it. Patriotic songs from
I the crowd and music from the band,
| addresses from C. P. b. Roberts, G.
A. R. veteran; Lieut. F. M. Cook of
Company G, and President A. C.
Gaillac of the Aberdeen Chamber of
Commerce; and farewells all were glr«
en under the surge of emotion.
Dr. J. B. Kinne, commander of the
local post of Spanish-American War
veterans, regrets that his corps did
not form an fescort for Company G,
Sunday, on the march to the depot.
It had been planned to form such es
cort, but the doctor had been busy
for three days vaccinating and exam
ining the soldier boys, so had not
time to give close attention to de
tails for the escort. The result was
that some of the veterans thought
they should meet at the armory, oth
ers at the depot. They were all oa
hand at the depot finally, but not as
an escort.
LOG SLIPS FROM
CAR AND TRAIN
GOES OFF TRACK
A log slipping off a Milwaukee
freight car Monday morning, ditch
ed that car and piled it and four more
into the ditch, six miles east of Mon
tesano. Conductor Sullivan was shak
en up a bit but received no serious
injuries, and the 0.-W. Owl train was
compelled to go back to Centralia and
come in over the Northern Pacific
tracks. All damage to the 0.-W.
track was repaired by noon.
John Coomes and Miss Dorothy
Borden were married Monday at the
home of the bride's parents, Mr. and
Mrs. R. 11. Borden, 2513 Cherry street.
The ceremony was performed by Rev.
\V. H. Gibson of the First Baptist
church. They will make their home
in Iloquiam. the groom being a black
smith in the Lytle mill.
TEBBS RETURN HOME
T. W. Tebh. sales manager of the
Pacific Lumber agency, has returned
from Tacoma and with his family
moved into their new home on Sixth
street.
RAYMOND MEN HERE
Charles Heath, J. T. Stratton and
Charles M. Ninis, all of Raymond,
were here Monday, goests at the Ho
tel Washington.
NUMBER 39
COOMES-BORDEN
