The Eclio Las a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 26
LEAVENWORTH SUES
SCAMAN & QUIGG
Builders of Water System—Allege Over
Payment and Faulty Con
struction
The city council, under referendum
instruction from the taxpayers, brought
suit in the superior court in Wenatchee
this week agai-st the firm named in
the caption for over payment and faulty
construction, and failure to comply
with the plans and specifications.
By vote of the taxpayers the council
was authorized to expend not to ex
ceed 44,000, the limit allowed by law,
to construct a city water system. An
engineer was employed to mike plans
and specifications. Bids were called
for and some five were filed with the
council. The lowest being Seaman &
Quigg, whose bid was $39,500 to com
plete the water system according to
plans and specifications. Some altera
tions were found necessary, as nearly
always occurs, the most important and
expensive being the carrying of the
pipe line over the river on a cable
bridge instead of on the bottom of the
river. Instead of 839,500, the con
tract price, it appears that the contract
ors were paid almost $70,000. Where
the council found authority to expend
almost double the amAnt authorized,
and why and for what the excess
amount was paid are among the things
that will be brought out in the trial of
the case.
W. F. Whitney and the firm of Cor
bin & Williams represent the city of
Leavenworth. The outcome of the
case will be watched with unusual in
terest. Questions of law as well as
morality will doubtless be raised in the
course of the trial.
Waite-Chcever
The following notice was taken from
a recent Seattle paper:
Miss Genevieve Waite and Herbert
Cheeyer, of Wenatchee, were married
Wednesday at noon at the home of the
bride's brother-in-law and sister, Mr.
and Mrs. W. W. Reed, 343 Kinnear
place. Rev. W. H. G. Temple read
the service in the presence of relatives
and intimate fridnds. Mr. Cheever
and his sister. Miss Rose, are quite
well known to many Leavenworth people
having often visited here when their
uncle Mr. Geo. Merriam and his daugh
ter lived here.
Candidate for Governor, to Speak Here
Sunday
Circulars were distributed here this
week announcing that Geo. A. Lee,
of Seattle, candidate for governor on
the republican ticket would address
the railroad men of Leavenworth Sun
day evening, July 2nd. Mr. Lee is
a forceful speaker and the youngest ot
all the candidates for governor. He
served the people of this ttate under
Gov. Hay on the Public Service com
mission, and served them efficiently
and with distinction. If we were op
posed to him on the ticket we would
consider him a formidable opponent.
By all means go and hear him. He
is worth listening to.
Two Seattle men of letters will have
a new play from their pens produced
here this week, when the Wilkes Play
ers offer "An Honest Thief," by Chas.
Eugene Banks and Wm. P. Gorsuch.
Banks is well known as a poet and
writer of novels and essays. Prof.
Gorsuch is head of the departmenT-of
oratory at the University of Washing
ton. The two men were thrown Jinto
close association during the recent cel
ebration of the Shakespeare Tercen-
tenary here, and out of that association
came the decision to jointly write a
pte?. ■ Their- production*was
accepted by the management of the
Wilkes Company, and immediately
put into rehearsal. On its local suc
cess will probably depend an Eastern
production next fall.
Puget Sound shipping to Russia for
April is valued at $18,482,882.
»' '$*&$
Xlbe Xeavenwortb EcfSb
Marooned Passengers Get Out
Paper
A copy of the Troy, Montana, Echo,
of June 23, one page of which is de
voted to the experience of the ma
rooned passengers on the G. N., dur
ing the flood in the Kootenai river
was received here this week It
appears that a passenger train was ma
rooned there five days during which
the passengers amused themselves and
employed their time in telling their
experience. One page of the Echo is
devoted to this parpose under the
head of "Troy Echo Sidetrack Edi
tion." This recalls a some what sim
ilar incident that occurred here some
six or seven years ago when slides on
the west side and washouts on the east
laid up two passenger trains here for a
week. The passengers got out a
special edition devoted to the troubles
of travelers. Several thousand copies
were printed and distributsd as sou
venirs of the incident.
VALUATION SURVEY
RAILROAD PROPERTY
By U. S. Government-Party in Private
Car Stopped off Here last Saturday
A government surveying party, trav
eling in a private car, spent part o£ two
days here, Friday and Saturday of last
week, making a detailed valuation of
the Great Northern railroad.
It will be recalled that Senator La
Follette secured the passage of a bill
thru congress some years ago under
which a valuation of the railroad prop
erty of the country will be made under
the direction of the government for
use by the Federal Railroad commis
sion in arriving at a just freight and
passenger tarifi. Mr. C. H. Reeder,
a civil engineer whose home is near
San Francisco was in charge of the
party and we found him a very agree
able and obliging gentleman, ready to
give such information about the work
he is doing as the public would natur
ally be interested in. He says a
full corps of valuation engineers is
working all over the country making a
very careful and detailed inventory of
the property of the different railroads
of the country and when they get thru
it will be published by the government
for the benefit of the commission and
the public generally. Under direction
of the government they are instructed
to make a thoro inventory of all the
property, inspect the tracks, bridges
terminal buildings and indeed every
kind and character of property owned
by the railroads. The party was on
the way east from here and left Satur
day for Peshastin where the next stop
was be made.
Wenatchee Will Celebrate 3rd
and 4th
Wenatchee will celebrate the na
tion's birthday on the third and fourth,
next Monday and Tuesday. A num
ber of Leavenworth people are plan
ning to attend the celebration.
A gigantic street parade, speeches,
music, auto parade and dancing in the
evening are some sf the diversions
proposed, with a long string of lesser
attractions. Reduced railroad and boat
fares.
Was It Somebody Else's Money they Spent
Statements of primary election ex
penses filed with the secretary of
state of Oregon and made pub
lic June 24th, show that the cam
paign of Senator Albert B. Cummins
was the most expensive. His cam
paign manager spent $6,956.40 while
the manager of former Senator Theo
dore E. Burton spent $4,896.56.
Neither President Wilson nor Charle«
E. Hughes had any expenses.
■»- —■ •
Mr R. B. and Mrs. Field and his
mother and children and Miss Clela
Bullis in one car, and Mr. and Mrs.
F. S. Jacobsen and daughters in Mr.
Jacobsen's car will leave Sunday by
way of Blewett and Snoqualmie pass
for Seattle to spend a week or ten days.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, June 30, 1916
$100,000 MINING DEAL
CONTRACT SIGNED THIS WEEK
Property Located in the Red Mountain
District—M. K. Cameron, of
Seattle, Purchaser
John Smith, better known as Red
Mountain Ole, owner and locater of six
claims in the Red Mountain district,
on the headwaters of the Chewawa
river, closed a raining deal this week.
Mr. L. J. Nelson drawing the contract
whereby he transfers the six claims to
Mr. Cameron, the latter making a small
cash payment to bind the bargain and
agreeing to pay the further sum of
85,000 on the first day of next Septem
ber, and the balance of the $100,000
in three equal annual installments.
Mr. Cameron visited the property and
was favorably impressed, and is under
stood to have gone to the property
with men to make further investiga
tion. It is located about 55 miles
from Leavenworth.
Three assays have been made. The
first showed a value of 20 cents per
ton, the second 8259 per ton and the
third 305 per ton in gold, silver, cop
per and lead. E. J. Tholin is under
stood to have grub staked Smith and
should the deal go thru according to
contract will share in the profits.
Mrs. Joe Massey, who also owns
mining claims in the, same vicinity has
been approached and may close a deal
for her interests. Of course there is
nothing in all'this for anybody to go
wild over. Not enough money has yet
changed hands to indicate more than a
deep interest in the claims. If the
first five thousand dollars is paid on the
first of next September it may indicate
something more than passing interest.
SEATTLE NEWS LETTER
Commerce thru the port of Seattle
has again been tied up by a second
strike of the union longshoremen, who
are now striking, not for more wages
or better hours, but for the "closed
shop." The funny part of the new
strike is that it is not based on any
condition in Seattle or the Northwest,
but was ordered by the union because
some shipping firms in San Francisco
had assembled non-union men and
were expected to use them for long
shorinp. The union proceeded to call
out its men in every port on the coast,
and shipping is again paralyzed. Thus
Seattle is suffering for something which
didn't happen, but which might have
happened in San Francisco. It is an
unprecedented sort of strike.
The Employers' Ass'n,, of Washing
ton, the Waterfront Employers' organi
zation and the Seattle Chamber of Com
merce have already united in a protest
against this strike, and against granting
to the union longshoremen the right to
dictate to everybody on the coast. The
union demands for the highest wages
ever paid to longshoremen anywhere in
the world was being paid when they
walked out, so the strike involves noth
ing but the "closed shop" demand.
The union men were not only insisting
that only union men be employed in
every port on this coast but also re
fused to handle shipments coming from
factories which did not employ strictly
union labor, or from any shippers main-
taining an "open shop."
Business men here have decided
that it is time to make a solid fight for
"open shoD" principles, as the indus
try and commerce of the whole state
will certainly be damaged beyond re
pair if the unions are allowed to con
trol every trade and every business,
and to say who may work and who may
not. Also it is pointed out that their
refusal to handle shipments from non
union plants is a direct violation of the
laws of the nation, which compel steam
ship comnanies to -accept all shipments
offered without discrimination. It be- ]
gins to look as if the effort to enforce :
San Francisco "closed shop" ideas on
Seattle would result in one of the big
gest "open shop" movements ever un- j
dertaken here. Business men declare
it would be commercial suicide to al-1
low this port to become bossed by
labor union politicians the way San
Francisco has been, and that the busi-1
ness of the entire Northwest would be
paralyzed if it were permitted. For
that reason all industries are rallying to
support the shipping interests in this
new strike.
The National Guard companies from
Seattle got away to the mobilizing
camp at American Lake with practi-
cally full strength, although recruiting
was slower than the authorities would
have wished. It was stimulated, how
ever, by the agreement of practically
all business houses to keep positions
open for employes who enlisted, while
some firms went so far as to agree to
pay salaries to the families of men who
joined the Guard. Many young men
declined to enlist, not because they
were afraid to fight, but because they
were afraid there wouldn't be any
fighting. They argued that they were
more that anxious to go to Mexico for
war, but loath to undertake their coun
try's service merely for patrol duty.
The stronger the war prospects became,
the more rapidly enlistments came in.
It was pointed out, of course, that en
listment in the National Guard is the
best sort of Preparedness, for which
everyone is firmly enthusiastic, but the
younger generation is stionger for real
fighting than it is for the less exciting
but more necessary job of gettting in
shape to fight efficiently.
Seattle will not have any Potlatch
this year, but an event of equal im
portance will be the Seattle Music
Festival, to be held July 12-16, with
musical events in the larger parks,
and in the big Arena, where Handel's
"Messiah," rendered by a chorus of
1,000 voices, will be one of the strik
ing featuies. The leading bands, the
Philharmonic Orchestra, choruses and
soloists of note will participate in the
greatest musical celebration ever held
in the Northwest. The railroads will
grant special rates from all parts of
the Northwest, add in every sense the
Music Festival will be the big mid
summer event of the year.
Seattle is going to have a new sen
sation, a bathing costume parade. The
opening of the new salt water nata
torium here will be marked by this
novel event, which will feature young
ladies in all the latest improvements
of bathing suits. Governor Lister and
Mayor Gill have been invited to be
judges, but at last reports neither had
accepted the honor. Fashion notes
on bathing costumes report that they
are being worn short this year, at both
ends.
Conservation, not of resources, but
of scenery, mountains, trees, water
falls, birds, flowers arid every natural
thing which helps to make the world
beautiful, was a big topic of discus
sion at. the recent meeting of the State
Federation of Women's Clubs, at
Everett. The Conservation Committee
of the Federation has been actively at
work, fostering the work of the national
parks, and other efforts of a more local
character, such as bird preservation,
shade trees in cities and similar efforts.
Mrs. W. S. Worman, of Seattle, is
chairman of the committee having this
work in charge, and Mrs. 3ranville
Ross Pike, of North Yakima, is in
charge of the bird work, being one of
the closest students of bird life in the
state.
Cut Your Weeds
Notice is hereby given that all ob-
noxious weeds on and about your
premises must be cut down and re
moved prior to the first day of July,
after said date if not cut down same
will be so ordered and the expense of
cutting and removing charged against
property. By order ol the City Council.
A. R. Blown, City Clerk..
Every woman in Leavenworth can
help a home institution by insisting on
having Leavenworth Creamery butter.
When you send an order to your gro
cer be sure to specify Leavenworth
butter. It is always fresh and sweet.
SIX OR EIGHT MEN ENGAGE
IN GENERAL DRUNKEN EiGHT
Two Cut With Knives and One Unconsci
ous from Concussion of Brain
Some time in the middle of the al
ernoon yesterday the report was sent
in over the phone that there had been
a big fight among some six or eight
men at the west end of the railroad
yard near the L.-D, barns and several
men cut with knives. The marshal
immediately went to the scene of war
and found several men, each of whom
'had a quart of whiskey, and all more
or less under the influence of liquor,
but the men who were stabbed could
not be found altho there was evidence
of a fight. Later in the evening the
report was sent in that a man was ly
ing beside the track in the vicinity of
where the fight had taken place. He
was brot to the depot on a stretcher
and later to the Leavenworth Hospital
where an examination showed that he
was suffering from concussion of the
brain. His head was all beat up and
bloody and he was still unconscious.
The name of Jackson was on the in
side of his hat band. Up to the time
of going to press yesterday evening the
men who had been cut with knives
had not turned up. They had all at
some time recently been employed in
snow shed work where some three hun
dred are employed at difiereDt places
from a mile to ten miles west of here.
Some of them come every day and
and seem to have no trouble in getting
all the whiskey they want. One of
them remarked that he could get whis
key as easy as he could get pills. One
of the doctors who attended the man
told a reporter for this paper that the
city marshal had several quart bottles
partly full of whiskey with a druggist's
name and the name of a doctor who
had issued a prescription for the liquor
on the bottles.
Since the above was written The
Echo is informed that the man Jackson
was beaten and kicked by Dr. A. R.
McKeown yesterday afternoon. En
gineer Wescott and switchman Dti
racha were witnesses to the trouble
and Marshal Potter says Dr. Mc-
Keown told him that he had
kicked the man. Marshal Potter
also has two of the bottles of
whiskey one of which was almost empty
and the other almost full of liquor.
Other parties had recovered two or
three of the bottles the men had
bought. The two in possession of
Marshal Potter have a prescription
label showing they were issued by Dr.
A. R. McKeown. The county attorney
and sheriff have been informed of the
facts and stated over the phone they
would be here today and make a thoro
investigation.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS
Only three members were present
Tuesday evening, the regular meeting
night of the city council, and as it re
quires four to make a quorum they ad
journed until Wednesday evening.
Featherstone, Kugelrr^|i, Miller and
Seeley showed up at this meeting with
Mayor Day in the chair.
A number of bills were allowed and
ordered paid.
The estimate prepared by Mr. Spei
del for improvements to the city hall
was read and ordered filed for future
reference. It calls for the expenditure
of about 8450.
A communication from the State
Bank requesting the payment of ten
water warrants, aggregating 81000, was
read. After a short discussion the
matter was held over until the next
meeting.
No further business came up and a
motion to adjourn carried.
■ Forest Supervisor Sylvester lek-T-ues
day for the head of Blewett pass where
he will meet Eegineer Murry who is
looking after the construction of the
Kittitas side of the new road.
The Satsop cheese factory turned
out 204,118 pounds the past year.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. It you want
High Class printing
it reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
Walker-Pipkin Wedding
A quiet wedding was solemnized
Monday at noon at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. George T. Walker when
their daughter, Bessie Maree was mar
ried to Mr. Thomas S. Pipkin.
Rev. Joseph Weiss performed the
cereujony in the presence of relatives
and a few intimate friends. Mrs. C.
Warren Reid played the wedding
march.
The bride wore a pretty lingerie
gown of white and yellow silk mar
quisette and carried a shower bouquet
of white and yellow roses. The color
scheme of white and yellow was carried
out in the decorations of the living
room and dining room, roses and syringa
being used. After the wedding a
buffet luncheon was served the wedding
party.
Mr. and Mrs. Pipkin left on the
afternoon train for a short wedding trip
to Seattle, Van Couver and Port An
geles. They will return the last of
this week.
The bride is the only child of Mr.
and Mrs. Geo. T. Walker, among the
oldest residents of the town, and grew
to womanhood in Leavenworth. She
is of a charming personality and highly
esteemed by a large circle of friends.
The groom is one of Leavenworth's
rising young business men. He has
lived here for a number of years and
numbers among his friends all who are
so fortunate as to know him. A little
less than a year ago he acquired an
interest in The Toggery, dealers in
everything men wear, and since has
been its general manager. Under his
management The Toggery has pros
pered and promises to be among the
leading commercial establishments of
the town. The young couple have
embarked on the voyage of life with
fair weather ahead and the hearty good
wishes of a host of friends.
Dates to Remember
Primary Election (Second Tuesday
in September) September 12th.
General Election (Tuesday after Ist
Monday in November) November 7th.
Last day for filing initiative petitions
(Four months prior to day on which
they are to be yoted on) July 7th.
First day for filing candidacies (Sixty
days prior to date of Primary Election)
July 14th.
Last d?y for filing candidacies (Thiny
days prior to date of Primary Election)
August 12th.
All registration officers are required
to file with tha Secretary of State, I.
M. Howell, type-written lists of all
registered voters, with post office ad
dress, in their respective precincts,
not earlier than four nor less than three
months prior to date of general elec
tion. (Names and address to be used
for mailing list for the purpose of for
warding copies of pamphlet containing
initiative and referendum petitions,
constitutional amendments proposed,
together with arguments for and against)
Not earlier than July 7th. Not later
than August 7th.
Registration books to be closed ten
days prior to Primary Election day
September Ist.
Registration books open again im
mediately after Primary Election day
and remain open until twenty days
prior to General Election day. Books
to be closed October 17th.
Are You Registered?
You must be registered if you expect
to vote at the primary election this
fall. For city voters the books are
kept in the city hall. City Clerk
Brown is registration officer.
Those living outside of the city
limits who have to register will have
to go to the Tumwater Light & Water
office. L. H. Hart is registration officer.
Miss Ida Haley who was connected
with the Leavenworth Hospital fsr
several months left yesterday for Mon
tana where she will meet a party of
friends from Kansas City at Havre.
Dr. and Mrs. K. G. McKeown have
cards out for a large bridge party at
their home Saturday eveuing.
