L _ 1 k ll"rrriTfir fill ■ tr r i
TWELFTH YEAR No. 2
notice.
bi* treat at the Commercial Club
NOON. Citizens ot en
houses will close from
*" 2 o m A» the Librar y building.
EVERYBODY BE THERE.
J
[nOVILt-E TO HAVE FINE HOSPITAL.
if there Is one thing needed In this sec
tor the state It IS .1 nisi Class general
“Sfof'a population rapidly Increasing
"h.V«nital facilities are most inefficient
““s he time ms arrived when the citizens
section should solidly unite and
ild u hospital that will he a credit, not
SftS the northwest portion of Hie state
kmi to the commonweal Hi as well.
si. thousand dollars w ill build such an
institution and every citizen of this see
“ ~h o contributes to tins liumanltar-
L* enterprise will look hack witli pride
««i satisfaction to the part lie lias had In
aa broadguaged community enterprise,
it us he prepared and all pull together.
eUmlnstlng all Muestions except that of
SSnlng the money. You w ill be culled up
as* S good citizen to help out. When the
Mtnmlltee meets you encourage them.
Olre generously. Your neighbor will do
The movement is on. I’nldle spirited
tltUens of Orovllle and surrounding sec
tions see In this a great common purpose
Is which all are Vitally Interested.
A mass meeting was held at the Coni
neieisl Club, numerous donations were
nsdc Slid volunteers to solicit funds came
onthuslasticllv forward. Cel on the Honor
Role: BOOST HARD. It is your problem
and It will be YOUR hospital for your
neighbor and your family In case of acci
dent or sickness. "He that glveth gen
muily will reap many rewards." DO
TOUR PART.
MEX WASTED.
Able bodied young unmarried men
between the ages of IS and 45 are
tinted to Dll out the quota of the
National Guards of this state. C. C.
Mcbirdson, of Okanogan, has been
made a sub-recruiting officer with
authority to enlist and examine men
applying to enter the service and fur
■ilk transportation, in writing to the
Queue Mr. Richardson says:
"1 have been requested through the
office of the Adjutant General of the
National Guards of Washington, to get
111 the recruits possible to Seattle
Jut as quickly us it can be done.
Okanogan city and Oroville have to
gether sent eleven men, ten of whom
,Jure passed the required examination,
'tfif keen enlisted in the National
Ohsrd of Washington- More men are
seeded. We are doing .ill we can In
Ibis valley to send our quota. Can you
do something?”
Far be It from this paper to urge
fay young man to enlist at this time,
when the outlook for real war is so
eminent, but it would be a matter of
much pride If Oroville had a credit
able representation in the ranks wear
lug the uniform of the American sol
dier, doing their part for the honor of
the flag. Enlistments must be free will
otfertngs, and it is only hoped that, a
number will respond to this call. So
far this town has contributed but
three recruits, which is rather a small
number considering the available ma
terial. There is no intention to try and
mislead by stating that a soldier's life
Is all joy and gladness. The young
man who enlists has stern duties to per
form, duties that will try his manhood,
his nerve, his endurance, and his will
ingness to submit to authority, for he
teases to be a free agent when he
takes the oath of service. He may even
have to face death on the battle Held,
If the president ever runs out ot writ
ing material, or is afflicted with
writer’* cramp, so that he can pen no
more notes. The man who enlists
should understand the responsibili
ties he is assuming, and if he feels
that he lacks any of the essentials
necessary to the making of a soldier
it will be more conducive to his health
•nfety and happiness to remain a civil
inn. if any there be who wish to join
the colors, let them get into communi
cation with Mr, Richardson at once,
ns time is short and the state troops
may be called to the border any day.
AFTER THE COWS.
Action was taken at a meeting of the
a nd owners under the irrigation dlst-
Tuesday afternoon in the
r *tiKe hall at Tonasket, to again pre
sent to the county board the matter of
nrrnlng a herd district for the purpose
n protecting the ditches and flumes
tom damage by live stock. A petition
“•king the county commissioners to
orm such a district was presented at
e June meeting, but no action was
taken by the board. Mr. Nixon, chair
man of the board, who was present at
V‘ e,d *y « meeting, said the reason for
is lay in the fact that the commls
oners did not consider the petition a
*h^ reßeD^a^ve one ’ as th® l ' 6 wg re only
f. ut thirteen signatures attached to
he W Bome discussion, In which
°th sides had their say, a motion was
Me by 0. C. Erickson, seconded by
• »■ Plcken and carried by a rising
n° *’ aut *t° rll! i n K the chairman of the
iritis 8, ® owen ’ to appoint a com-
I i three from each end of the
Ration district to secure signatures
* more thoroughly representative
tion to be presented at the July
••ting. The committee appointed by
the chair consists of O. C. Erickson E
A. Newell and Ralph Pheasant from
the Tonasket end of the district, and
three other members who are to be ap
pointed from the neighborhood around
Orovllle.—Tonasket Times.
AN ACT OF WAR-
After the Carrlzal ambush, in which
a Mexican force, acting on orders is
sued by Carranza, attacked two com
panies of the 10th cavalry, resulting
in the killing of a number of men, in
cluding two officers, and the capture
of seventeen troopers, the administra
tion lias issued another "note." It is
true, the note is caustic and reeks with
the threat of war, but other notes have
carried menace without arousing any
manifestations of trepidation on the
part of the recipients.
There is no effort on the part of
Carranza to shirk the responsibility of
the attack on the American troops. He
claims that lie issued a warning to
the officers in command of Hie Amer
ican forces on Mexican soil that an
expedition directed toward any point
of the compass except northward
would met with resistance. The two
companies that were victims of the
ambuscade were headed in a south
erly direction on the trail of bandits.
The officers of the expeditionary force
had ignored the Mexican manifesto,
and suffered the consequences. So said
Carranza, if not exactly in those words
yet that was the general tenor of his
note to the Washington authorities as
an explanation for the unprovoked as
sault.
The companies that were shot up be
longed to a colored regiment of cav
alry, but they wore the American uni
form, marched under the American
flag, were a part of the American pun
itive expedition, and so far as an act
of war is concerned the attack was
Just as hostile as though the troops
had been white. The incident would in
dicate that bullets and not billets are
what Carranza is most desirous of ex
changing.
ROOSEVELT TO SITPORT HUGHES.
Col. Roosevelt has shown the Amer
ican people that his patriotism is above
personal ambition by declining the
progressive nomination for president,
and urging the members of that party
to support Charles E. Hughes, the re
publican candidate for president. This
declaration he made Monday in a let
ter to the national committee of the
progressive party in session in Chi
cago- The colonel declares that in this
crisis the safety of the country is
above all petty political differences,
especially where the differences are
so slight as to be negllgable. He de
clares that it is his intention to sup
port the republican nominee, while
foregoing none of the principles that
he has advocated. By assuming this
attitude Col. Roosevelt has strengthen
ed himself in the estimation and
esteem of the people of the country.
Even those who were opposed to his
nomination for the presidency recog
nized in Col. Roosevelt the foremost
American of the age, and his attitude
in thus refusing to accept a nomina
tion tendered him by a large faction
of the republican party was not unex
pected. The result of this action of
Col. Roosevelt means the election of
Mr. Hughes next November beyond
the faintest shadow of a doubt.
AXDRUS-JOXES.
In glancing over the columns of the
Sunday edition of the Spokesman-
Review our eye encountered the fol
lowing interesting item of local sig
nificance that gave us pause, and also
a Jolt of pleasant surprise:
“Chas. A. Andrus of Nighthawk,
Wash., a mining man, and Mrs. Dymae
Jones of Idaho Falls, Idaho, were mar
ried at 8 o'clock last night at the homo
of Mrs. S. Copley, 2323 Sharp avenue,
Mis- Copley being an aunt of the bride.
The Rev. Hugh W. Jones of the Fifth
Presbyterian church performed the
ceremony. The home was beautifully
decorated with roses and light re
freshments were served following the
ceremony.
"Only relatives were in attendance.
Including Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Stew
art. Mr. and Mrs. S. H Obermuller
and Mrs. E. N. Randolph.
“Mr. and Mrs. Andrus will moke
their home at Nlghthawk, after spend
ing a short honeymoon at Wenatchee
and Lake Chelan " *
Monday evening Mr. and Mrs. An
drus arrived in Orovllle from Spokane
and after a few days here will be at
home in Nlghthawk. Mr. Andrus has
been connected with mining interests
near Nlghthawk for a number of years
and has been a frequent visitor in Oro
ville during that period. He has a
large circle of friends and acquain
tances in this community and through
out Northern Okanogan county, all of
whom will Join in wishing him and
his bride a long life of married bliss
and no end of prosperity.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON, JUNK 30, 1916,
frightful accident.
Mrs. Dewey Hubbard, of Conconully,
Drowned In an Ante Aeldent Near
Okanogan.
Monday afternoon. Dewey Hubbard,
of Conconully, ex-county auditor and
one of the best known residents of
the county, drove down to Okanogan
in his car from Conconully for the pur
pose of meeting Miss Norma Dilla
bough, expected to arrive on the Oro
ville-Wenatchee train that evening i n
the way to her home at Conconully,
Shortly before It o’clock, during the
rain storm then prevailing, Mr. Hub
bard started from Okanogan with six
perstns in his car. They were Mr and
Mrs. Hubbard, Mrs. .1. C Dlllubough
who had gone out to meet her daugh
ter Miss Norma Dlllubough and two
men who had arrived on the train on
thtdr way to Conconully. Some two
miles out from Okanogan the road
passes over a bridge across Salmon
creek. The stream is very high and the
water hail washed the bridge out since
Mr. Hubbard bad passed over the road
that day. Probably owing to the storm
Mr. Hubbard did not notice that the
bridge was washed out until too late,
and tile car with all its human freight
plunged into the Hood.
Mrs. Hubbard was pinned under the
car, and her heartrending appeals for
help could he heard for some ime.
'1 he current was so swift that no one
could work in it, darkness added to the
horror of the scene, and as the car
could not be moved those present
were helpless to render assistance.
After help arrived a rope was placed
around the body of Mrs- Hubbard and
the car lifted, but the strong current
snapped the rope and the body disap
peared. Miss Dillabough had one wrist
dislocated and the other arm broken.
Wm. Pooler, one of the passengers,
had an arm broken. Others of the party
were bruised and sever.'y shaken ip,
but sustained no serious Injuries.
Mrs. Hubbard was well known
throughout the northern part of the
county, and had a large numuer of
warm friends, who are shocked be
yond expression by her tragic and un
timely death. She was a sister of Jas.
Silverthorn, who has been connected
with the engineering department of
the Irrigation district with J. C Ste
vens since construction commenced on
•he project- The news of the accident
reached Oroville early Tuesday morn
ing, creating a profound sensation, ns
Mr. Hubbard has many friends here
who extend to him sincere sympathy
in this hour of his terrible affliction.
OKAXUOAX t'OUXTI' “COWUOVS”
That the Okanogan county soldier
boys are not only becoming popular
but are obtaining considerable pub
licity as well, is evident from a look
at the columns of last Sunday’s Seat
tle Times. The Times contains among
other things a large, two column por
trait of Private Jerry Buber, one of
the Oroville boys, with an account of
Ids daring work as a buckaroo artist.
The whole thing came about in a very
simple manner. Jerry with the rest of
the boys were sitting watching the
fruitless evolutions of one of the cap
tains of cavalry essaying to ride a
wild untamed bronc. Finally Jerry be
came disgusted and made some remark
to the effect that “any kid could ride
that horse, and he'd never seen a city
chap that could ride anyhow.” The of
ficer overhearing the remark decided
to punish Jerry severely for his les
majeste and so ordered him to mount
and ride the animal or take the conse
quences. Nothing loath Jerry proceed
ed to give the astonished officer and
recruits a sample of the real thing.
The exhibition is said to have ben a
stem-winder and Jerry came out vic
torious, never pulling leather once-
Since that escapade the Okanogan con
tingent are all classified as the Oka
nogan cow boys and it is intimated
that they are in line for a transfer to
the cavalry when an opportunity oc
curs. The caption beneath Buber’s
picture reads as follows:
“Private Jerry Buber, whose post of
fice address is Oroville, Okanogan
county, a real “he" town; late occupa
tion. “buckaroo,” in other words a
"boss” trainer; present business, high
private in the rear rank of Company
B. Second Infantry, N G. W.; name,
Jerry Huber. Buber arrived in town
this week and enlisted in service on
the border. Jerry doesn’t know much
about military life yet, but he sure can
ride a horse, "straight up without pul
lin leather,” and ho can knock the
spots out of the ace of spades at fifty
yards with a six gun. Incidentally, Bu
ber bears (he reputation of never hav
ing been unhorsed in a bucking con
test, and he is American so far back
he doesn't know whether his seven
teenth great grand pap came over on
Mayflower or paid $24 for Manhattan
Island.”
Mrs. Richards and Perris Ford were
over from Loomis Monday on a visit
of a few hours.
A CHECKERED CAREER.
Word has been received of the death
of Mrs. L. M. Willard, who died at
Sait Lake City some two or three
weeks ago according to information
received by friends at Loomis. The
deceased had a remarkable career,
ami the story of her life, could it be
written, would be an interesting nar
rative. When quite young, so it is said,
she was married to John W. Young,
eldest son of Brigham Young, head of
the Mormon church. The young cou
ple met by accident while traveling.
It was a case of love at first sight,
and the marriage soon followed-
When tlie marriage took place It was
one of the understandings and provis
ions of the matrimonial contract that
John Young was to renounce the cus
toms of his faith and never take a
second wife. If he should ever do so
the young wife declared that she
would leave him and sue for a sepa
ration, For a number of years the
young people lived very happily, trav
eling iu great style all over tlie land.
Several children were horn to this
union. At last Brigham Young became
so insistent in Ids demands that John
should comply with tlie rules of the
church and take unto himself other
wives that he yielded. When a second
alliance was consummated by John
Young, the future Mrs. Willard Imme
diately left her husband, some six
months before the birth of her young
est child, and subsequently secured
a divorce.
Sonic years afterwards she met Dr.
Dr- L. M. Willard, whom she had
known when a girl, and they were
married. Dr. and Mrs. Willard came to
Washington In the 80’s. They lived for
a time at Spokane, Ooldendale, Da
venport, Coulee City, and finally set
tled at Loomis some 20 years ago. The
doctor died in Loomis some nine or
ten years ago. and some time after
ward Mrs. Willard left Loomis and lias
since been living in Los Ange.es, Salt
Lake City and other places. She had
reached an advanced age at the time
of her death. She leaves several
spmi, one of whom, Willard Young Is
well known In Loomis and Keretneos,
where he lived tor a number of years.
HAS HE A CHARMED LIFE.
Clayton I). Baldwin, of Loomis, spent
several days in Oroviile during the past
week. For the last eight months Mr.
Baldwin lias been working at the tun
gsten mine, near Cathedral peak, higli
up in the mountains where snow lies
deep, and was out here for the pur
pose of trying to secure men to work
in the mine.
Mr. Baldwin has had a varied exper
ience over a large portion of the Pa
cific coast us u miner. He lived for
years at Loomis, and during that per
iod worked in many of the claims of
more or less celebrity in that district-
When the Klondyke excitement turned
the northwest topsyturvy, and had the
same effect on the balance of the world
for that matter, Mr. Baldwin hot tooted
it for Alaska. He experienced all the
hardships that fell to the lot of the
prospector in that land of the mid
night sun, and might have been one of
the lucky fortune hunters that made
a killing in those early days, but was
taken sick, had a narrow escape from
croaking, and finally returned to the
Okanogan. He lingered here briefly.
His next venture was down in Mexico.
He struck that country when revolu
tloning was just getting popular as a
means of livllhood, and soon he had to
cut across country between two days
in order to save his hide, as the Amer
ican hide was not safe over the border.
He made a big losing on that expedi
tion and was thankful to be able to get
back into God's country with a whole
skin and the duds he had on his back.
What he says about Mexicans and their
peculiar ways would not look pretty
in print, and it goes without saying,
like all other Americans who have had
anything to do with the Mexican
and has had personal dealings with
him on his native hearth, Mr. Baldwin
hopes that the United States, now that
the war togs have been doned, will
clean up the greezers, and clean them
up good and plenty- Again Okanogan
was the haven of p.e,ace and rest that
Mr. Baldwin sought, and after being
here a little time he secured a position
at the tungsten mine.
It is rather a case of irony of fate
that Mr. Baldwin should be working
for wages at the tungsten mine, for
while he was not the discoverer of the
claims he became interested in them
to some extent after the discovery and
put in a good many hard days work
in the preliminary stages of the devel
opment of the property.
Mr. Baldwin states that the tung
sten property has passed out of the
hands of the Seattle company that
bonded it, and is now operated by the
B. C. Copper company, an organization
with ample capital to carry out any
improvement that may be decided up
on- A large force of men is engaged
taking out ore, driving tunnels, drifts,
slopes, etc. He states that there Is a
large quantity of high grade ore on the
dump and in sight in the workings.
The reduction mill, the machinery for
which was hauled in over the snow
during the winter with a vast amount
of labor and difficulty, is set up and
ready for operation. The ore is to be
concentrated on the ground. It is the
intention of the operators to construct
a road down the mountain to Ashnoia,
that being a much nearer route to the
railroad than over the trail that has
been used since work commenced on
the claims. Mr. Baldwin is of the opin
ion that the present operators will
make a great and dividend paying
mine out of the tungsten property as
there is an almost inexhaustible
quantity of ore to be mined and mill
ed and contracts have been made with
Pittsburg steel plants to take a year’s
output at a very favorable price. The
prospects are bright for at least one
exceedingly valuable mine in north
central Washington.
The reader may remember that
some weeks ago brief mention was
made of the accidental death of an
Austrian miner working in the tung
sten mine. At tlie time nothing could
be learned about the accident, fur
ther than a man hud been killed, but
Mr- Baldwin was able to give us the
particulars, as he has reason to re
member tlie circumstances vividly for
the balance of his life, even should
life be protracted an even hundred
years. There came near being two
deaths, and Mr. Baldwin, who seems
to bear a charmed life from the num
erous narrow escapes that he has had,
nearly supplied the second corse. Mr.
Baldwin knew the unfortunate miuer
only by the name of Vic. His rear
name was made up of a string of con
sonants so common in foreign nomen
clature, and could not be remembered.
Mr. Baldwin and Vic were working in
a narrow stope in a very cramped po
sition, the stope not being more than
four feet high. Vic was sitting down,
having Just cleaned the muck out of
the stope and Mr. Baldwin was stand
ing near him, stooping over, as the
height of the stope precluded stand
ing upright. Without a moment's
warning the entire roof slipped down,
an almost solid, wedged shaped block
of granite, the small edge upward,
eight feet long and the width of the
slope. The Austrian was doubled up,
and as was afterwards developed up
on examination his back, neck and
both legs were broken. Mr. Baldwin
was crushed down upon his face along
side of the other victim, and it was
probably because the body of the
other man stayed the further settling
of the rock that Mr. Baldwin escaped
instant death. He was rendered un
conscious, and the first thing that he
remembers was trying to wrench
loose his right hand that was pinned
under the debris. He managed in some
manner to extricate himself, and stag
gered out into the open air, going to
the blacksmith shop, where three or
four miners were congregated. Ills
appearance created consternation in
the group, as he was covered with
blood from numerous cuts about the
face, head and hands, although they
proved to be slight injuries. A rescue
party at once entered the stope but
the Austrian was beyond all aid. No
work has ever been done in that slope
since the accident, and a large slab
of granite now blocks the passage, a
mute reminder of the tragedy-
Deputy Sheriff Clair Ward was in
town Tuesday while through the up
per country on official business-
The rain storm Sunday evening was
fierce here, but much fiercer at Loomis
according to reports. A building in
town was struck by lightning during
the hight of the storm, fortunately
without burning, and the electric
lights were put out of commission.
When the blinding flash of lightning
wrought general havoc there was a
crash of thunder like an explosion of
dynamite.
Last week the Gazette issued an en
larged paper with a lot of illustrations
at considerable expense and a great
deal of extra labor. A number of extra
copies were printed, as it was expect
ed that the residents of the place
would desire extra copies to send to
friends at a distance. We overestimat
ed that desire, as only a couple of
dozen papers have been called for- We
are registereing no kick, as we took
the chance and are perfectly satisfied,
anyhow. However, we have the odd
copies on hand and if any body should
change his mind and conclude to send
the gospel of Okanogan broadcast the
gospel is here for shipment.
The sheriff's office has managed to
apprehend two of the alleged cattle
thieves who ran off several head of
cattle from the ranch of EM. Howell
last week. They are Eld. and Harry
F'iglinskl, residents of the Tunk creek
neighborhood. It is believed (hat a
third person had a hand in the rustling.
Officers are chasing down clues quiet
ly yet vigorously. The Flglinski broth-
era are under lock and key at Oka
nogan. So far the officers have been
unable to locate the stolen cattle, al
though the hill country has been
brushed over pretty thoroughly-
Under the head of political an
nouncements will be found this week
the announcement of A. W. Hogadoue,
of Okanogan, as democratic candidate
tor sheriff. We have not the pleasure
of the acquaintance of Mr. Hogadoue,
but he Is said to be a capable gentle
man and would make an excellent
sheriff should the honor fall to him. If
the next sheriff Is to be a democrat let
it be a man in whom the public can
put confidence. There are democrats
seeking office in the county utterly
unworthy of support of even the mem
bers of their own party, and it Is to
be hoped that when the nominations
are made at the primaries our demo
cratic friends will see to it that their
candidates are men in whom the peo
ple can place confidence. Mr. Hoga
duue is said to be one of that kind of
men, and if elected the office be as
pires to would be in good bauds
THE FOURTH AT LOUMIN.
The 4th of July comes ou uext Tues
day and the chief recognition of this
great national holiday in this vicinity
will be at Loomis, where preparations
have been perfected for an old fash
ioned hurrah. There will be events ga
lore of an interesting nature, anij all
who attend are assured of a generous
welcome and entertainment that will
entertain. Horse racing will be a con
spicuous event, but that is only one
item upon an assorted program re
plete with events presenting attract
ive features, in the old days when
Loomis celebrated the hill country
and the valleys sent streams of people
Into the camp and the lively times the
crowds had will live forever in the
memories of t'tose who participated.
Some of the old features that con
tributed largely to the gayety of those
occasions may be missing, but the cel
ebration will be all the more enjoy
able, especially for the milder manner
ed visitors, by their absence. It is go
ing to be a big celebration with a cap
ital B, and there should be more peo
ple in Loomis next Tuesday than ever
before gathered in the place. One of
the most attractive numbers ou the
program will be the oration by Father
Shei ,iun, an orator without a super
ior in the stale, and an American
without a shadow of a doubt us to his
Americanism. He will give the kind of
a talk that every citizen in the land
naturalized. Altogether Loomis has
should hear, whether native burn or
something in the way of a celebration
very much worth while, and as many
residents of Orovilie as can do so
should make it a point to be present-
LIKE ( AKItVINU CORN TO ILLI
NOIS.
During the past weak one of the
business bouses in tbe town baud I lug
small fruits bad to send to tbe coast
for strawberries for the purpose of
meeting tbe local demand. We could
hardly believe the statment, yet tbe
box of berries was before our eyes and
the word of the gentleman to whom
the berries was shipped was evidence
that could not be doubted, it seemed
a strange and inexplicable anomaly
that tliis queen of small fruits should
be shipped into this market from a dis
tance of 'wo or three hundred miles
when the very best strawberries that
ever tickled the palate of an epicure
can be, and are, grown around Oro
ville. There is no good reason why
strawberries should not be grown
right here at home for export, to say
nothing about meeting the local de
mand. It is no unsubstantiated boast
that as choice berries. In size, color
and flavor, are rasied here as are
grown anywhere in the land, and it
would seem that somethlug is radical
ly wrong if a sufficient quantity is not
produced to meet the consumption of a
community numbering a thousand
souls.
While on the subject It may be ad
ded that another large merchant—-no
reference to the size of the man, but to
the volume of busines that his house
transacts —informed the writer that
during one week recently he could
have disposed of 500 crates of straw
berries, if he had had the strawberries
to handle- This gentleman gave as one
reason of the shortage of the normal
crop of berries in this vicinity this
season that the hard, unprecedented
winter killed many of the vines. Grow
ers who last year delivered several
hundred dollars’ worth of berries
were unable to deliver but very few
this season. Just the same the said
gentleman emphasized what has been
intimated in this article, and that is
besides meeting the local demand
growers should be exporting straw
berries in large quantities.
Everybody wants to attend the Commer
cial Club meeting Saturday at noon at the
Clvio I.eague building. There Is someth
ing doing in Orovllle and you want to be
in on it.
11.50 PER YEAR
