NA
MOCRAT
ONE PAPER
CELINA
H
H
In th HOME I worth s doi.n In
th byway, and Just remember THE
DEMOCRAT li tha homa pa par of
Morcor County. a a o
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIGGEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH THE HUB OF THE UNI
VERSE. Esiarad th-C'.ii-, ' to. pot-fflc es.d-tlaM ssil st.i.
Volume 21, Number 12
Carlin & Carlin, Publithen
Celina, Ohio, June 30, 1916
c
'DE
FREEING
OF TROOPS
Captured
at Carrizal May Pre
vent Expected Clash
nni wasninffion bum ueminai
Word As to Carranza's Attitude
Towards Pershing's Force.
WASHINGTON, June 28. An Immed
iate break between the United .States and
the do facto government of Mexico wan
averted oy compllunce lth the Amerlcun
demund for the release of the 23 troopers
captured In the My lit at Carrlzul.
Whether a state of war has been overt
ed or merely postponed no one here would
attempt to say tonight. Olllclul Informa
tin us to the uttitude of General Cur ran
zu was lucking. VnlU bis response to
Secretary I-inslnii's note di.-patchej Sun-
duy, making two pre-emptory und distinct the use of the armed forces or the United
demands. Is received liere there will be States he rcmulnd stcftcfust to his deter
no decision on whether President Wilson minution thut the blood of young Amerl
Mhull lav th crisis before Congress. cun soldiers should never be shed except
Mews of the releuse of the prisoners
received here eurly toi ight In press dls-
oatches. brought undisguised relief to
high officials. It was accepted as correct
although no announcement had come
through nfllciul sources. Moreover It was
...... , , i. u
assumed thut Currunzu. Impressed with
the liri-encv of tlie situat on hud ordered
he cuptured cavulrymt n started for the
border without wultlng lor bis announce-
ment of his action to reach Wushlngton.
TENSION IS LESSENED
While it Is generull conceded thut this
move lessens tension and makes a crisia
less imminent, no one convei sum win
the grays problem is losing sight of the
fact that the all Important question oi
Ca'TUiiza s attitude toward the expedition
across the border to protect the terrl-
tory and citizens of the United states
from bandit outrages remulns unsettled, i
If the de facto government stands upon I
the orders to General Trevino to attack
General Pershing's men when they move
OiIierWlHo mail lUWUru Lilts uurutri, uic
situation actually la Just what It was be-
fore, except that there now Is a posslbll-
ity or diplomatic negotmiion mat uiu noi
exist while tlie Amercans were he.d prls
n,i'Q fit Clilhilfilillfl.
The preparations of the United States
for war will go steadt y forward. There
will be no Interruption of the rush of Na-
'tional Guardsmen to the border and Gen-
eral Funston will conunue disposing of
tlie forces under this command us thougn
he expected un immediate attack from
the Mexicans.
LUTHERAN
Congregation at Chattanooga
to Lay Corner-Stone
Of Proposed New Edifice Next
Sunday Noted Men to Take
Part In Services.
The laying of the corner stone of the
new Lutheran church which is nearing
completion at Chattanooga will be held
next riunduy, July 2.
1 ne program oi me ony s services win,
he ono of high merit, l'rof. K. V. .Smith
of Capital University, Columbus, O., has
been secured to give the address. Rev.
B. F. Brandt of Oak Harbor will ulso be
present and speak in English. Itev.
Brandts is a Chattanooga product, hav-
iiifi been born and reared in that vicinity.
He will be welcomed by his many friends.
Sunday will be a day thut many Luth
erans in and about Chattanooga have
looked forwaid to.
DARING HOLD-UP
In Heart Of Lima W. O. Ticket
Agent Is Robbed by High
wayman Gets Away.
LIMA, O., June 27. A hold up man, op
erating single handed, robbed the agent
of the Western Ohio K tllway here short
ly before midnight and escaped. Scores
of pedestrians saw the man's flight after
the robbjry. The robber obtained $261;,
the receipts for the day at the ticket offi
ce. Albert Shaw, the agent, wus closing up
the business for the day when the rob
bery occurred. He had pluced the cash
In a box and had gone down Into the
basement to deposit It In the safe. As he
was opening uie saie no neuru looisieps
behind him and turning, he looked Into
the muzzle ef a revolver. He was forced
to give the robber the r,ox containing tlie
money.
The robber, warning Shaw to make no
outcry, ran to the stairs and ascended.
At tlie top he slowed up and walked to
the door us there were three other per
sons in the wailing room. When he reach
ed the street he broke into a run.
Shaw quickly followed and gave the
alarm. A chauffer, commandeering an
automobile, took up the pursuit but lost
the fugitive In the duikness. Police,
when they i cached the scene, were un
able to find a trace of tlie mun. The
station Is located in Hie downtown bus
iness district.
NOLAN GETS CFF EASY
George P. Nolan was arrested Sun
day evening on a charge of non-support.
Nolan was indicted by the last
grand jury and since that time the
officers were unable to locate him,
He was locked up to await his hear
ing. When arraigned Wednesduy morning,
Nolan plead guilty to the charge of non
support and after considering the casv
the Judife was rather lenient. Nolan wag
released on consideration that he pay $1
per week towards the support of the child
Tlie Utile daughter, Mtry Nolan, Is not i
eight years of age.
ICfi CREAM AND CAKE 80CIAL
The la. lie of Trinity M. K. Church, at
Ki'unIiih, will give un lo-eruum and cake I
social ut that place Saturday evening,
July 1. Price, JUo. L'veryone U urged
to UllcnU.
THE SPIRIT WORTH WHILE
COLUMBUS, O., June 28. "We are as
wiling to march to new graves now aa we
wore fifty yearn ago and we recognise
thut tlie Rio Grunde la our border us
much as the Ohio Hlver," reuds the let
ter received toduy by Governor Willis
tendering the services of llfty seven train
ed Civil War veterans of Juekson. These
men. it 1h claimed, are prepared to post
or patrol duty to drill new recruitH or
I,,.,. i.i iiiik u,,.im imif niev ., r-finirefi
except to take long murrn.
Ve are ready to bIiow that the patriot-
Ism of the (Jrund Army Hoys does not
consist only of rush Ik our checks, sing
iiiLr th "Star Souimlcd Kanncr" und the
nunching to the cemeteries on memorial
Iav to decorate me graves or our Ueao, I
continued the letter.
If the Ohio Manufacturer's Association
would catch Home of tills sulrlt it would
I sound better and leave a bi tter taste in
tlie mouth
MEXICO
President Wilson has never wantcd
war. In the days when bis opponents at
tacked him and tried to goad him into
as the lust recourse In the effort to up
hold the honor of the nation
Once when even graver eventualities
were threatened, the patience of President
Wilson's statesmanship wus rewarueu uy
. . . ...
diplomatic victory thut :uude tlie shedding
I i.i,w.i .',.,ur.uunri, it UB. t1 i.ru
of blood unnecessary. 11 was me preai-
ueni s pieviuun niuira auuti iui
gave
such force to the ominous ultimatum that
brought lull concession to the rights oi
I America and humanity.
No president of the '.'nlted States has
ever plueed the cause of the people of
Lib rnlted states upon a higher plane,
.., ,.... t,i U.
"u t""'
lanuy to pnseivj peace win. ....
Cities Muve proved the case for President
-,,,:- 11,.nml., mioroval of his
...,., ,.,,
-
his' desire for honorable peace.
Tlie immovability of the president In
(ie o) FiMUh an(J lartlsan critlclsm.
I
coming from those who thought more of
personal advuntuge than of the welfare of
,i nati0n
has been the best security
of the American people throughout the
thne the world nus ixen auraenea oy war
clouds.
If the sword of righteousness must now
be unBheathca, the American people know
U ,,... i ma
...v.... ......
xt,austed. If the sword la raised
to strike itls becuuse the head of the de
ftn irnil of Mexico refuses to re-
spect the rights ot America.
No president has ever tried so nara to
....4 tUa rant u.,l..i nf Amapln. M
Wilson nas said that he would rather
know what the men and women gatherd
around their own fireside, are saying than
t luten m the nmtlnns nf the Relf-au-
pointed.
In his Handling of the Mexican problem
President Wilson has been guided by the
ulne-l,. ImituluM In fin uhnt the Amercun
pople would huve hm do-to exhuust all
the peaceful means at his disposal to pro
tect the lives and property of American
people and falling In that, to uphold the
honor and dignity of the nation by the
use of its armed forces.
Tl.o aI. wllfn 1,1 tr, tnto rtenf.rt.
a ----- - .
ment to Central Carrunza in response to
hls threat to attack the American troops
presented the complete case of the Amer-
ieun govrnment uguinsi jvrexico. as hi
tlie Kurouean situation, when the ultl-
malum with its ominous note brought full
concessions, It marked the end of pres-
ident Wilson's patience.
The lives of the Amerlcun soldiers in
Mexco, soldiers who were sent there to
protect the border from the raids of ban
dits bent on murderimr Americans, hud
b(,en threatened.
In the might of righteousness, the
sword of America was then raised to
strike, and in the struggle that threatens,
the nation enters upon Its task with
clean and feurless heurt.
Behind the president who has so truly
rpresented the churiluble spirit of the
Amerlcun people behind the president now
In his grim determination to use the full
military una naval strength ul the na
tion in support of the trooDs in Mexico.
stund the mighty host of patriotic Amer-
leans, united, vulatit and conscous of tlie
faithfulness of their leader to the Ideals of
real Americanism.
NOTED COMPANY
Will Assist Young Priest in His
Initial Services In This City
Next Sunday.
Rev. Charles Roemer, S. J., oldest son
' A. Roemer, of the J. A. Roemer Co.
clothing merchants, of this city, was or-
dttined to the Holy Priesthood at St. Louis
University, St. Louis, Mo., Wednesduy
morning. There were 22 young Jesluta
in the class crdalned by Archbishop John
J. Olennon, tlx of whom were Ohio boys.
It was .notable too, that at least half of
the Ohio delegation seem to come from
particularly levltlcal families. Father
Charles a the eldest of three Jesut broth-
ers the other two, being still students in
tlie St. Louis Unlversty
Thlj morning Father Roemer celebrat
ed a low muss at Lafayette, Ind.
Next Sunday at 9:30 a. m., he will cele
brate his first solemn high mass at the
Catholic church In this city. Owing to tlie
recent death of hs mother there will be no
elaborate celebration of the nftf.fi y Inn
xne young priesig miner, J. A. Roemer,
and his sister, Ella, weie in attendance at
the oidainution set vices und will aceom-
puny him home.
nev. noemer win oe assisted in the
muss Dy Kev. William Antnony, private
secretary o Ai-cnoisnop MOeiier ot cin-
clnnutl, acting as deacon, and Walter A
Roeiner, a Jesuit student and brother of
1'uther Charles, us sub-deacon, Rev.
"u'.'8; t inS,i 1 a " 'ovln;118-1
i V.i i ' .i ..,.1, i .j 4if ti.r t it
.."m'i" "A.,?;::., d'"'""
an IIIUll VflI t'r; ui-'iviiivii tiy ncv. JlUjUH
tine Selfert, formerly rector of St. Jos-
eon s college. ;oieKev le. ma.
On Monday morning- I'ather Roemer will
clebrale a solemn requitm iiia,s for his
deceased mother, tne lute Mrs. J. A. Roemer.
hican
Treachery at Battle of Carriza
Now Definitely Known
Notes Found on Body of Captain
Boyd Show Americana Were
Deliberately LedlntoTrap.
SAN ANTONIO. Texan. June 26. All
doubt ax to the treachery manifested by
the Mexican soldiers under (lomex when
they opened lire on two American troops
ui i urruui lusi Wednesday morning was
dispelled completely loouy ny me nnuing
of the body of Captain Hoyd, who paid
win Ills life for his tiust in the Mex
leans.
Cuptuln Boyd's body was found in the
desert by Mujor Jenkins who has been
searching for American dead and wound
ed from the Currizul light with a detach
ment of tlie Eleventh Cuvulry.
In Captain Boyd's pocket wus found a
note book containing a curbon copy of a
etter be hud Just set to the .Mexican
jelu ut Currizul und the original of a
note from General Gomez,
he Mexlcun
commander, bcuringlhc signature of the
Mexican, who wus also killed In the firing
which followed Ills order to Ida men to
tire upon the Americans.
There is also a carbon copy of a note
Cuptuln Boyd sent to General Pershing
ill which be told of bis intention of going
on to Villa Ahumudu.
OUTLINE OF PURPORT
An outline of the purport of these doc
uments, .lent by Major Jenkins to Gener-
ul Pershing, was sent by the communder
I uf the American expedition force to Gen-
erui u union lott.iy. me papers prove:
That Cuptuln Boyd halted his troop and
that of Cuptuln Lewis S. Morey while he
sent worn to uitt Mexican authorities oi
Currizul thut the Americans were on a
iiLiinufnl mu.lnn o.irl ttit liu nuljuit rukr.
Curirizul.
1'ha.t General Gomez replied in his own
handwriting by Inviting Cuptuln Boyd and
his men to enter Currizul for a confer-
ence
,fhe fu)1 WOI.ulK of the!ie interchanged
notes has not been forwarded here, but
Gen. Pershing's comment when he read
lliwn, wus. "It looks like treachery to
me.
LOCATES SURVIVORS
Major Jenkins locuted today Cuptain
-Morey and the four troopers with whom
10 ir-bu.ii.fu inn juiii-i huh unc. inc mt-j-
or.g HCOUting pul.ty fs tlll searching for
.stragglers, survivors of the Carrlzul en
gagement, In the region of the San Uom
ingo ranch. It is known thut one surviv
or Is still wandering on tlie desert.
With the finding of these five men, the
number of those who returned is brought
up lo 43 enlisted men and one ofllcer.
There were 84 men in all In the two
troops; of the 40 not safely home 22 are
prisoners ut Chihuahua City, which leaves
18 to be accounted for. The straggler be
lieved to be heading north from Sabanal
accounts for unothcr of the Americans,
I It'it ulnp 17 ti c 11 tr lift norm intrl fniv f f
. f . .... . . believe(1
there ure still five men to be accounted
IOr.
REFUGE IN ADOBE
Major Jcnkin's report to General Per-
shing states that alter the first firing of
the engagement. Captain Morey and his
l refuge in a n. arby adobe. Ihere
they were surrounded by a greutly super
ior force of Mexlcuns. During the night
Captain Morey directed his men to leave
the hut in smull detachments tnat their
cnanecs o. escape m.gi.i ue mcreuseo
Captain Morey, who hud been wounded
in the engugement, remained hidden III
the adobe the following day with four of
his men. The house was within 2,000
yards of the Mexican force.
""- "igni, unursuay; llie SII1J.U pal ly
nut mi liint 111 iniike its U'HV lo the
American line. Captain Morey soon be-
came so weak from loss oi blood mat he
XJ JV sTve
tcffinselves.
ihls they did. hut Ciptiiin aiorey rat
L' "r '"S'n.e,: , n, n e,l ' 5, .
about nine miles from Carrizal. After
being cared lor there, lie got to tlie han
Lucius ranch, where Major Jenkins found
him.
THE COLONEL SINGS A SONG OF
GOOD ROADS
Col. Charles Wesley Thatcher, quaint
nml ohl fashioned. Inasmuch us his little
ot, wft(f0n drawn by Ul,ee llomely burros
pulled into this city Tuesday morning.
Col. Thatcher may bu behind the times
in his mode of travel, but he Is certainly
up to the minute when It conies to good
roads.
The Colonel Is going from coast to coast
in the interest of good roads. The little
wagon he travels in is full of old relics
und covered with name cards from all
parts of the United States.
Thatcher is a lover of concrete roads
and heartily endorses them. He is En
gineer of Washington Memorial Highway
and It was In tlie nterest of this highway
that he headed his homely burros through
Celna. With quite a crowd about him,
he made a line speech in the hope of get
ting townsmen interested enough to draw
the highway through Celina. Col. Thatch
er spoke eloquently of the streets of this
city and also of the big pond.
From here he winds his way to Chicago.
Misses Tllle Sacher and Mary Wesker
are in Detroit tins week as delegates to
the Intrnatlonul Convention of Knights of
St. John and Ladies Auxiliary.
Hrest Shock, who formerly resided In
this city and who now lives at Humble,
Texas, visited hereabouts wilh friends und
relatives the first of the week. lie goes
from here to New Coik City und while
there will be the guest of Merle Langel.
Ernest Is an oil contractor.
j. a. Romer.-of this citv went to St.
Louis, lust Friday for a visit with his son
Charles, who, on Wednesday was ordain
ed to the priesthood.
Tom Durbln, wife and family left last
Sunday for Midland, Mich. They made
I lie trip in Mr. Durbln's niachne.
Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Wyckoff left the first
of the week for Washington. D. C. Thev
will be joined there by Mr. and Mrs. C.
A. Wyckoff, of Mlumi, Florida. After tak
ing in the sights at Washington they wil
go to Baltimore for a visit will Dr. R. J
Wyckoff und family. The party from
there will take a summer's outing along
me New Eiigiunu coast
The 1914 club were entertained by Mrs.
jij. J. - Brook hurt at luncheon Tuesday af-
ternoon, ut her home on North Main St.
Guests from out of town included Mrs.
Puul Starr, Cleveland, Mrs. LeRoy Smith.
iifoit, Mrs. Fred Martin, Webster city
wa, Airs.
Pfefl'erly, Dunkirk.
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Dorsten, Mrs. Jen
nie McDaniel and daughter, Miss Maude,
motored lo the homes of Annul Hueliler
and BenJ. Borger, South of Montezuma,
Wednesday evening and spent a very en
joyable time.
REAR END COLLISION AT THE FORT
A rear t nd collls. n of two freight
trans oi'i ui'i ed at Ft. it t overy last Tues
day iitlernooii. Local 61 wus Just leuving
the mii.n ir.uk when liittiiU'r ii'i coming
down Ki'ade uhout 2;'j miles un hour wis
unatile to slop und ciuslit-d Into the
calaliiHist of tilt: local.
No tine wus Itiiiired but the compact
caused one ear lo leuve tlie track und
itct-!rocd tine car of merchandise.
1 1 AT 10 AKItlVAIiS
Mr. and Mis. Buuglu r, of Liberty town
ship, lire the huppy pitrents of u buby
till born last Monday night.
Auditor anil Mrs. J. JA .Stelnlnun-
ner ure the huppy parents of u buby
boy bore lust Monday nlnlit.
GRADE
On Main Market Road Refer
red to Street Committee
Curbing of Another Street Pro-
posed Motorizing of Fire
Department Discussed.
At the regular nieetlns of Council Tues
duy veiling tlie matter of motorizing
the fi:e department was taken up. Cur1
lln, chairman of tlie lire committee re
ported that one of the horses was In bad
h.ipe ami thut the in; tier should have
liiiinedlut i attention. He also spoke of u
proper lire alarm system. Fire Chief
Weber talked to council in favor of both
movements.
Knginet r I llnton broimht up the mutter
of changing the grado on the .Main Mar-
ket road. If the grade be mutle us ut
llrst stated It will mean tin; removul of
a great deul of dirt. This matter wus re-
erred to the street eoliimitce.
A motion wus curried thut the I1S0U0
wutir works bond issue be uwurdtu to the
Davis Heitiam Co., at their bid of $549.
The street committee reported that thelites.
ity had u car loud of street oil und
bought it should be put on tlie treets.
one side ol the street at a time
The curbing and guttering of West
Warren street from Main to .Mill was left
to tho sueet committee.
A motion was made for tlie clerk to no
tify the Western Ohio Traction Co. to
uke care of their waste paper
A motion was caiTled toyituthorUe th.-h ,,.y were , ,he wnK((n driving down Ful
i liai council to make abstract for lot No. , , . ...
l
lllll to Ihe Min Wert Overall lactoi y. He
isalso to prepare u resolution to curb mid
gutter West Wan en street from Main
to -Mill streets. .Vartin l.ulz is lo draw
up plans ant' sneciticutions tor sume.
N'exl Tuesday being Fourth of J'lly,
Council adjourned to meet op Wednesduy
juiy 1'.
Y. P. A. ELECTS OFFICERS
The Young People's Alliance of the Ev-
ungellcul church of th'.s city at a meeting
lust Monday evening, elected the ''ollow
lug officers for the coming six months:
President Leon Roettifer.
V ice President Clam Dicke.
Recording Secretary Lydiu Fox.
Coiii;sponiling Secretary Ota Hint in
Lohivnz.
Treasurer Floyd Ste'ike.
Pianist Alice Fust.
Chorist r L. B. Pumchrcv.
Leon Roettgc-r wus elected as delegaie
to attend me uiik t'urk Assembly in Aug
ust. SMASH-UP
Shows Close Call for Wife Prose
cutor Meyer and Party Auto
Wheels Torn Off.
Mrs. B. A. Myers had her shoulder and
arm badly injured and Robert Runyon,
son of O. V. Runyon, of tills city, was
badly bruised und scratched when a car
they were riding in ran into a bridge Just
east of Coldwater.
The machine, which belonged to O. V
Runyon, contained Mr.-. Burl Myers and
little son und Mrs. Runyon and children,
who wera on their way to Ft. Recovery,
Mis. Myers was driving the machine and
tm nearing the bridge, it hit a bad place
in tlie road, crushing Into one of the end
pieces of (he bridge, with such force as
to tear off one front and one buck wheel.
They were not thrown out of the mach
ine.. A telephone call was sent at once to
Prosecutor Myers and Mr. Runyon, in
this city, and they went after their fam
ilies, bringing: them here.
Dr. Weamer attended to the Injured
parties at Coldwater.
TOWN TOPICS
A number of the Celina teachers left
the first of the week to attend the annual
state mewling of teachers. Those in at
tendance from tliis city were Prof, and
Mrs. J. W. Pogue und son Owen, Coun
ty superintendent Cot termini, Misses
Fern and Lillian Ruudahaugh Maude Col
lins, Mary Lunge! und Harriet Bretz.
The residence that formerly Stood next I
to the lirotlijun garage on North Main
street Is beiug moved to Eust Anthony
street, to make room for the new struc-
ture to be erected by tlie Urothjuns.
Stockholders of tlie Elmer D. Webb
company, Lma, enjoyed a big hsh fry at
the Ashley Hotel, last Thursday evening,
W. E. TouVelle and Ira E. Wagner, of
this city ate slock holders In me com-
puny.
The state coitnsul in the case of Shelby
Deisel, charged with illegal fishing, fail- bondage by the General Court of Vireln
ed to appear at the hearing of the case i, ut Richmond, on May 4, ISM. TbtW
before Justice of tlie P euce C. A. Stuhbs, I
utsi. weunesuuy unu me cuse was uis
missed.
Fraik Smith, who hilled from some
where in Indiana, was arrested last Mon
day nisiht by Marshal Duncan on a charge
of being drunk and disorderly. When ar-
ratgeo iviore Mayor iicranton Tuesouy
morning, he plead guilty und was lined $5
and costs
Ofllcer Dlener last Sunday nicht arrest-
e nmuii wonam; u ma oi t. iviarys, lor
spi ninit,
(he coin with him momised to send it on
fin ti.llnti' wna flnfJff ntnl nnt nn7tnp"l
Hirlviliu- hnme
i
E. F. Roetteer. who has been conduct-
Iiib a mocerv ut the corner of Mill and
TouYYile streets, told his busintss tlie
fll'St Of Ihe week to ef'tr Rvuklim WhO
took immediate possession. Mr. Roettger
nas inn uecioeu as 10 wnat course ne win
pursue.
Raymond Studer was at Toledo. Tues-
duy and Wednesday and returned to his
home here yesterduy. Some time ago
Ray had hot metal splashed in his eye
while employed at Toledo. Tlie eye has
not been doing Just right und upon exam-
inution tlie doctors find thev will huve to
operate upon the Injured member to re- -vlrs- s- Haumgurtner returned last
move some obstacle on the eve-ball. The Tuesday fo her home t Perrysberir, af
operation will take place next week. ter visiting several weeks with her daugh-
i , !
The Rex theatre, which was sold
I'iu wuulr will f rti ii i,0
last week. Will ito.u now on, be
Known as the "Metropole." The new
managers expect to show the very
best in the movie line
bobi, in tne movie une.
FOURTH
To Be Celebrated at Coldwater
in Splendid Fashion
Under Auspices of Younc Men of
Iloly Trinity Church-Haces,
Contests and Music.
Inder the auspices of the young men Li
Jloly Trinity church, arrangements are
being made for. a big celebration and pic
nic on the church grounds July Fourth
The young men have rntire charge of
serving the meals und promise to furnish
u menu that will sutlsfy the most exact
ing Amusements will be provided for both
young and old and ull are Invited to come
to Colduter on the Fourth and enjoy
th- day with the Holy Trinity congre
gation.
The Celina and Coldwater bands will
furnish the music for the occasion and
oi can rest assured that the musical
program will be a feature worth hearing.
There will be races und contests free
to all und liberal prizes will b awarded
to the winners. A ni'Vry-go-round will
bH on th.i gtound und you ure particular
y invited to visit the urt gullery and the
I museum
Mvery effort will be tut forth to make
the duy a huppy and pleasant one for
ull who attend, und you are kindly Invlt
ed to come and spend the day and even-
lug ut Coldwuter.
Theie will uslo be a Lull gume between
Ft. Hecovery und Coldwuter at 1 o'clock,
This will be u gume worth seeing, as
both teams are out for gore and there will
be many purtisans to yell for their favor-
A grand display of fireworks will be a
feutuie of the evening that you cannot
a H ol d to miss. Come and you will be
made doubly welcome. Coldwater Chron
icle.
The big team of horses belonging to
the Kelley Coal Co., ran away lust Tues
duv ut noon. Murtin Johnson and C. Kel
ancm. .uL u : iui ncu uum ,m-
ton to Mill one of the lines broke and
the horses started on a dead run down
Mill street. As they started on the mad
dash Kelley lumped out but Johnson re
mained in tlie wagon, but us tlie team
neared the L. K. 4c W. trucks fie Jumped,
falling on his head and shoulders. He was
pretty badly bruised up. The team was
stopped by un employee ut the Ames
Heuding Company.
TWELVE
Years' Litigation Ends in Vic
tory for Land Owners
After twelve years of litigation the
question of title to somethng over three
thousand acres of land n the south end
of the county, was practically settled last
Friday, when the Curt of Appeals by un
animous concurrence found and decreed
for the defendats in tlie action of Joseph
Mot on and York Ryal, for themselves and
others, against Gerhard Kessens and oth
ers, better known as the famous Ran
dolph slave cases. The costs were as
sessed to tho plaintiffs and a motion for
new trial overruled.
The case was begun twelve years ago.
when Joseph Moton, York Ryal and others
filed in Common Pleas Court in this coun
ty 57 separate actions against as many
dlferent well-to-do farmers of Marion,
Granville, Franklin, Butler and Jefferson
townships, contesting their right ad title
to the farms which they had purchased
an 1 Improved. The action involves about
3200 acres of the finest furm land In Mer
cer county, and the cuse la one of the
most important, as well as 4me of the
must interesting civil cases ever tried In
tlie state.
The case dutes back to the Civil War
period and wus made very difficult to un
ravel owing to the fact that the original
win ui juiui nunuuipti uuu many valu
able records and deeds were destroyed bv
the burning of the Capitol building at tlie
eval uation of Richmond, and the burning
of tlie court house at Petersburg, Virgin
ia 111
John Randolph, of Roanoke, an eccen-
tc Virginiun died In that state May 24,
lS3.'i. He drew his own will in 1828 and
added thereafter two codicils, one in 1S30
Un another in 1832. His will was contest-
ed by heirs, und was in the hands of the
State Court of Virginia, at tlie time of the
destruction of the Capitol of Virginia, in
1864.
Randolph was at one time attorney gen
eral of tlie United States and was reputed
eo be the wealthiest mun living In the
united Slates during tins tune.
His wil is very lengthy und full of many
interesting fucts. He bequeathed his li
brary to John Marshall, at that tme Chief
.lilstiee nf thM ITnjlefl SCtHtd SlimrniM
Court' nnri Hurt nf his eatnte tn Frnneia
Scott Keyes, author of the Star Spangled
Banner.
He named Judue William Leluh us his
executor, bequeathed absolute freedom to
all his slaves, some three hundred in
number, und aet uside a lartre sum of
money for his executor William Leigh to
transport tlie slaves to some other part
of the United States and purchase land
on which they might settle. Here begun
tlie case which has Just been settled by
the Court of Appeals.
The R.iiidolnh slaves were released from
w'ere brought to this state, and attempted
(Continued on Eighth Page)
PERSONAL
Cornelius and Simon Egger. of Chattan
oosfa, were in town xueeaay,
TJeimlv Sheriff Herbert Srhln.llo.. Tvna a
uu.uness visitor at Lima Monday
Ooerirfi Rnmer. nf Sr Usnrv nhn hm
, " . .. . . - " -
on 1,10 slt'K "Bt- 13 raP""y Improv-
"e-
junu xuvis, jr., oi weoo vity, mo, is
spending - several weeks here with his
aunt, Mrs. E. E. Stephenson.
Ralph Fanger, who Is attending busi-
ness college at Ft Wayne Inil u atu-iwl-
IngVseveral weeks vacation at his home
nove.
Mrs. Wnuter Pefferle nnd children re-
,llfi""u ..Yv..7'"efBy, ,nJ" at"
Kwk ' c,mrM!"
Sunm Tru r,.ia r i,i it ,.,
ffl tl tohl? T he Eer
f,?u"' T s .knesJ , of her sUtef Ml, Kth
LpVn iiorhin Katn-
',m "inL
iei. mis. kj. ttentzscn, in tins city.
I, lJev- w-,.w- Lance left last Tuesday for
imiiMiiupoiis, wnere ne will visit with h s
.SOn Willam. who belong to the Natonal
Guards, and who expects shortly to leave
f?!' Mexico, while there Rev. Lance will
I?" "e convention i or. tne anti-saloon
league in session in that city this wtelr...
NOTICE
We, tln undersigned hardware dealers,
will Ijm m,,ii Miuiiiuv. Thursday and hsl-
iiniiiy eveiiiiiifs of each week during ilia
Minimer months.
TIIK liliaiY N1CKKL I1DWK. CO.
KAVLOK IHU.NNKUAN.
J. F. McGIIK.
CFLINA HAItDWAItK CO.
ICE CREAM SOCIAL
An Ice oreum aislttl will lie held next
Thursday, July 6, III the court house park i
the willing vtoiKets class oi iue tun-
gelicul church having cuurge.
celina lad whsc-jveted honor
The following dispatch from Columbus
to tho Cincinnati KnifUirer lust Tuesday
will be of Interest to the many Mends ot
Clarence feifeld, son of Mr. and Mrs. J no
l-cllel J, of this city
Columbus O.. June 26 Out of 274 up
oh. ants who took the e Aunilnu Uon for ad
mission to tlie bur 216 were successful
The uumes were given out today and It
Is uitiiounced that tlie out ll to me new
aw vers will lie udmllllstered by the chief
Justice of the Suprenm Court on July 1.
Atcotm tlie applicants were six success-
ful oun women all of whom passed.
a ......iv .. tut r.r ,.eeesf.ii cMndidut.
wus the name of Clarence J. Lelfeld of
Celina. Clunnce graduateo from thai ?i ' ,u"'1 "'"I
Ohio State University of law this sprlne 5d0i. T be board approved lb ap
und best wishes ate expended to liiui for I proximate of the same, whlcn Is as
a successful career.
iViil Appreciate Improvements
Proposed by Fair Board
Mud t;Be Eliminated by Crash-
Stone Driveways Many New
Features for Meeting.
At a meeting of tlie Fair Board last
PEOPLE
Tuesday it was decided to make manylllbg.
changes and Improvements and prepare
for the big Banner Fair this year.
Ticket sellers, police and gate keepers
were appointed. W. E. Reynolds was ap -
pointed chief of police.
At the nursery the ladles and many
mothers who visit the Banner Fair will
hud a very pleasing personage In charge
In the foim of Mrs. Roberta, of this city.
The members of the Board, after going
over the grounds, decided to make Im-
provements on both grounds and grand-
stand. A contract was entered into with
John W. Karch to put stone on the minor
drives and to pike the main drive. The
old fence surrounding the race track has
been torn down and a new one la now
under construction.
Members of bands who play at the Fair
this year the board decided to give $2.50
each, but no tickets for the entire Fair.
Wednesday will be Old Soldier a day
and the old soldiers and their wives or
widows wil lie admitted upon this day
free of charge. ..
The Boys' stock Judging contst will be
, . i .f.i j
neio on inursaay. ....
i . . . ..... I .1 .1 .... 1 .... I . .-. .uiA
the feature u grand Horse Shoe Pitch-
w 1 1 I I J 1 1 .1 , lilt: 1 1 M(i . . i U . i u j iu i . ... in.
lug Contest, in co-operation with the
riuie rair unu unuer me ruies oi ut:
t'ion. For tills event the Board decided
to offer three prizes: first 5.o0; second
J.I.U0; third jj.uo.
THIRTY-NINE
Years Ago Saw Initial Meeting of
Veterans of Old Seventy
First O. V. V.I.
IWapakoneta Daly News.
Thirty nine years ago In the fall of 1877
the survivors of the Second Brigade, 3rd
division of the Ohio Volunteer Infantry,
Fourth Army Corps, held their fifth an
nual reunion in Wapal-oneta, at the old
court house, with Col. G. W. Andrews of
Wapakoneta as president and George A.
Blocher of Miami county as secretary.
The attendance on that occasion was
large, but death has deciminated the
ranks of the soldier of 1861-'6 until today
the number Is small. Fifty six were reg
istered at the reunion In Celna last year.
The first annual reunon was held In the
fall of the year 1873 at Troy. The second
one was held at Dayton at the Soldier's
Home the third also "Dayton the
fourth in Troy, the fifth in Wapak in 1877.
Verv little or no record was malntaned
of tlie reunon. Secetay Lee states until
tlie ninth, when M. Lee's brother was el-
ected secretary.
Tl.u, mn nn whnao ahnnlfWa tha
...v, ...... .
weight, oi more iiiuu miy years sniue
tlie close of the civil war sits heavly for
the most part, saw plenty of flghtng ser
vice. They were at the evacuation by the
rebels of Columbus Ky., were at Shlloh
and participated in the stirrng events at
that point. .They did guard duty at Car-
thaae and other points In Tennessee. In
the Atlanta campaign, at Franklin, Nash
ville ad many other points. After tne
close of the Civil War these men and
their comrades were sent to Texas to
assist In the guarding of Texas against
the invasion of JMaxmiilun and nis Mexl-
can troops, the Mexican leader endeavor
ins to maae Texas a part or tne soutnern
empire.
Sam's boys, many of them sons and
rvnw mnre man nirv vnHm infer I nem
grandsons of the boys of lStil-Ti are doing
guard duty on the Mexican border to re-
sisl attempts at invasion uy v ilia or var-
ranza men.
While the veterans were in session in
the assembly room at the court house,
on Thursday morr'ng, the members of
tlie Women's Relief Corps of Wapakoneta
were eneased in the basement at J. A.
R. hadquurtrs in preparing dinner for
the visitors.
mi .i i i i.
,1 .... r. i n. -
vrnn iiit-n 10 ,en un, aivri iiib icauiiiK
n i..f v,., tu i.t- nmi.
Amos North, of Pleasant Hill! Jacob Fike
of St. Msrvs. Cvrus roirilH of Fletcher.
1.-....,. -,,i ij
mittee to nominate candidates for office
and to report on place for holding the
next reunion. -
Attendimr the reun on were comrades
a. Adams, Aoranam east, j. ai. Nolan,
W. Tltomas. B. F. Shinn. G. W. How
ell and Elisha Martz, of this county.
BIG ATTENDANCE AT BLALACK
FAMILY REUNION
The Blalack first family reunion was
neiu at jviercenna rarx lust ounaay wltn
an exceedingly targe attendance, no pro-
gram had been previously provided, but
n nn ft w.u h.H hv n
- - ' i
Those In attendance were as follows:
C. G. Thaekard and family, Bradford: O.
R. Moore and wife, Hollandsburg; James
ui-eer ami wile, xsuseuiu ; rTeo l irneus
ami ramiiy. Sidney; rc. w. Houser and
wife, Piqua; Ollie Blalack and family
money; jutius rsrown Miu iamily, Sidney;
George Copp and family, Sidney: Miss
Florence Ginn Ft. Loramie: Mrs. E. M.
Houston and children. Van Wert: Ed Bla-
lack and family. Ludlow Falls: CHIT Ratle
and family, Troy; J. S. Houser and wife,
riuua; mis. sum creamer. London; R. I
nruwii unu iamily, voiuwater; iva Brown
.-.nuiey, mis. nuia lae uno DaDy, jtntn- i
Oscar Blalack and wife. Celina: Mrs. Ol-
ive uagie ana tamlly, Olilo Citv; Mrs. ung attorney, associated with his fath
Sarah Wooden, Celina: Dave Larue and er, former Attornev-itenHral nH rw.
wife, Wabash.
It U' (1 u Anl.lu. 1a hntfl .Ka maw. M.Ai-.,tHn. I
1 1J ' I
The following officers were elected:
f-resioent J. u. Houser, Fiqua.
Secretary Fred Tlmeus, Sidney.
Treasurer; W. H, Houser, Piqua.
change:
Mads in Many Road Assess
ments by Board
plans. Specifications and Esti
mates on Mala Market Boad
1 1 , West, A pprored.
In the matter of the Cellua-Wa-
Luihti Main Market Koaii No. 11, the
.State Highway Couiinlsslou ubuttt
letl plans, maps, specifications and es
timates, which were approved by the
I bOUfd. The Said luUirOVellieDt U U
start at the West colouration line or
. . . . . " rfiMli.nc nf
f,V,. i X U JUn IOr d"aC Ot
MM twt or .65 nnic8, all la Jeffer-
towushijj. The total estiluaU Is
I I I II II II 4 1... w I...t n
follows.
Roadway f 858.60
Pavement 8423.84
bridges' and culverts . . . .' 338.10
Total of roadway 19620.04
Intimated cost of 1U. sad
HuperintendeDce , 379.98
llOijOO.OU
The Board meeting on June 22
took up the matter ot the Wluiuieri.
Schiuackers, Stab.1 and Sieburt, all as
sessments were found to be fair mid
just and were approved.
In the mutter of the Fast road im
provement, all assessments not being
(air and J List the following changes
were made: John Wiley, changed
from 250 to 1235; J. C. Brookhart
$3&U to (325; Jos. Nuding, $150 to
I in the matter of the Pohl road im-
I provement the following aubesament
was changed: Jos. Houian from $225
1 to $200.
Tho following assessments were
made by the Board on the Dibble
I road improvement: Calvin W. Riley
changed from $10 to $15; D. E.
Green from $10 to $15; Nettle Green
from $8 to $12; Nancy A. King from
$200 to $140; Wm. tiller from $200
to $140; J. C. Staeger from $275 to
$200; B. F. Carpenter from $45 to
$90; J. C. Staeger from 40 to $90; J.
Garland et Ul from $30 to $50; G. 3
Dibble from $360 to $380.
I Ths Cen'etery, Wlmniers, Schnjac-
ke.'S, Stahl, Pohl, Fast, Siebert and
I Dibble road improvements weie or-
I dered advertised for sale by thhe
Board,
Ben Post jr 8upt of tne Wabash
, ,',,'.,, . , ' . u
I ditch from the State line to where
l the Dig Beaver enters same, asked
i . - . . -
the Hoard for an noil t nna ll..w-
- --w ..
, ,. . . . .
nce or au IOr tne Uionm Of June
and $50 for the month of July, The
reijuost was granted
J- W. Kaich, contractor On the
Shively road improvement entered
int0 a contract with the Board to
widen the grade on said road from
the Beaver bridge south a distance of
700 feet for $50 dollars.
i he Hickernell pike was viewed
and accepted as complete by the
Board.
The following bills were allowed
lust Friday and are now payable:
Carl Smith, tile $ 3 00
Gust Lingerich, building re-
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
MEN SHOCKED TO DEATH IN PE
CULIAR WAY
St. Marys Leader.
Inttant death by acidentul electro
cution waa the fate Saturday of Joseph
Huber. 5S. bachelor aud Benjamin Hag-
emu n 15, married, and the father of five
children.
The tragedy occurred on the Huber
form north of the village of Botkins.
The two men wer eengaged in takin a
long Iron pipe out of a well. The tube
wa elevated through an opening in the
roof of a shed building over tlie Inn nf
tlie well. The top end of tlie pipe leaned
ffi unu ujucn adjacent W estru
extends through a deep cut in the trac-
I tion right of way. Both men are suid to
inJriS? u.?inA .i.- t .. u,.,
born there and always iived at the same
locution. Benjamin Hacemun married s.
UI """er auu resided Wltn n-S
. ijiniiiv on the n afe
HIGH HONOR
COMES TO
LADY
CELINA
Miss Mary Wesker. lor a number of
years president or the local Ladies Aux
iliary of the Knights of St. John, was el
ecttd auprenie trustee of the National
Auxiliary yesterday al the supreme con
vention at Detroit, Mich. Such was Uie
message received yesterday by local Aux-
miary niemoers irom Miss
Tilli.- SMelif
W'ilO With MisS Willf.-r u rU llnlnm. lau . wil..
this city to the supreme lodge convention.
" MEN OF COLDWATER TO DO ENTER
I M I lf I N O
The men of the Coldwater M. E. church
I .... . .
wm e v" a .lr wn fete on the '
"r ot Main and Market streets. Satur-
day evening, July 1. The Coldwater band
will furnish the music. A cordial invi
tation is extended to ail.
ON THE OUTSKIRTS
Springfield, 111. Governor Dunne grant-
eu reprieve to unicKen Joe" 'aranU
,...,1 . i , .. i ' '
sentenced to be hanged tor the murder of
the.,wll'e of a former warden of the Jollet
e"."fft.io.i i .
Cincinnati. O.. After Minlmel Ktr-up-hn
i..er'was .arrestea on a. charge ot
' "IS . "-"V?1" weapons, ne tried to
it"- v?... .u m u
"""" """ Lu ave ms uie.
ttvansville. Ind. Arthur Pur W or .nd
Vincent nuiliniflon were kil efi Itv "fl,-..
uamp in a coal mine near Newtonville.
Ind., a few miles east of here. Edward
Parker, owner of the mine, and father
oi one ot the boys, was curried out un-
co"sl;ious and is still in a serious condi-
loungstown, u. William Smith, a
stranger here, took a nap under a freight
rrJthe..V8. railroad yurcta and fost
ootu legs anu an arm. ne oiefi tfinnv
L. , arr?n,' V' . wo fT.en. dl'lvlnK stolen
a bu in thTosk, . fT" L'r" ni?.i"
ffiiuuiniK ruumtin ttoy u. strock, of tnii
city, here early yesterday morning and
staging a revolver battle with farmers
anu omcers. xne bandits escaped
Warren. O. Dennis P. Ftrnn of Weir.
ton, W. Va.. confessed murderer of Ruby
May H urd here tun unntk. nvn ,t i ..h .
day In a loca ihospltai. A sell -in flic ted
ounet wound in the head caused his
ueain. xne n.ri nad rejected him when
ne iouiiu uuu ne was already married
Columbus, b. .rumen it w.-
gressman David K. Watson, died suddenly
nf liuuf f..il....
Toledo. O. The nolice ar tnHuv rlro.
King the Maumee river for the body of Ir-
jvni r... nrsig, oi oiuipous, supposed to
have been drowned. .
