TODAY'S PRICES
' x Titik sates (state bills) U9
rex cm pesos 51 Mexican sold
rji bills 17 Carranza cr.
K (rral 4S Bar silver (Handy
i - c uotatlonl ti Copper 5:8
t roc Livestock steady Stocks
HOME EDITION
WEATHER FORECAST.
FJ Fuo and wrest Ten, fair: 'r
Mexico, fair, cooler northern, warmer
snnthem portion; Arliona. fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO, TEXAS. FRIDAY EVENING. JUNE 30. 1 9 ! 6.
r.J L1VERED ANTW HEitK
FNTS A 1-ON'TH
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
DFFIANT
EXPECTED
: BREAK IS
IJujVXwIu
I r
'
FOUR MORE VILLISTAS HANGED
D. S, Hf DRIFT
ill line
Effort to Be Made to Force
Entire Enrolment Into
Service.
TTosMnirtftn T f Tuna fl TXT
MohiltZalion of the Militia department legal experts construe the
m - r t .- I C3UiUUUB auupica uy
silong Border is Being
Kept Secret By U. S.
COAST TROOPS
MOVING RAPIDLY
Report That Pershing's Line
of Communication Has
Been Cut is Denied.
WASHINGTON", D. C, Jnne 30.
Secretary or th: Baker an
nounced todar that orders have
teen sett to all deparirct-nt army com
jr.aoders to suppress all r,ews concern
Irg trocp movements.
The war department order follows:
in view of the fact that reneral
luowledge of troop movements en
resolution adopted by congress and
sent to the white house Thursday as
granting authority to draft every en
roled member of the national guard
Into the feedral service whenever the
rresident shall decide the step is neces
sary. :
The draft would apply, they believe,
to all guardsmen whether they take
a new oath or not Under this con
rtructlon the whole enroled strength of
the state troops, now upward of 120,96c)
men. could be called into the federal
service without delay and be used
either on the border or In Mexico.
RI HOSPITALS IDE LIKE STOICS J1SB FREED
ARE ORGANIZED
Full Preparations to Care
for Sick and Wounded
Troops Being Made.
San Antonio, Texas. June 30. Ade
quate preparations to preserve the
health of troops now moving to the
border and to care for the sick and
those who might be wounded In event
of a clash with Mexico -practically havj
been cmopleted.
Base ospltals capab'e of caring for
500 parents each already are estab
lished at San Antonio and Fort Bliss.
There t.Jso Is a smaller base hospital
at Doujrlas, Arizona.
Arrangements have beer made to es
tablish other hospitals at Fort Crock
ett, near Galveston, liable Pass. Laredo
and Nogales. Camp hosrltals have es
tablished along the bo.der.
Oil DE1I1
SCAFFOLD
CLAIMS AMERICANS WERE
FIRST TO FIRE AT CARRIZAL
New Tork, June 30 The American
Union Against Militarism has made
public a telegram from CoL Francisco
Trevino stating the Americans were
first to fire at the battle of CarrizsX
When Capt. Boyd, commanding the
ro.it- to the border or In Texas might j troop movements to the border
result in some malicious act that might I it -was reported today that a
eenoaBly hamper these movements and I ber of troop trains would arrive Sat-
, 6 J. .comi uau.,, .u turoay nignt over the Santa Fe from
c life among troops it is directed the north and it is known that troops
are coming from the middle west over
that all concerned be instructed to tne
erect that no information as to move
ments of troops is to be given to rep
reesntatives of the press or any Indi-
d-ais other than the officials of the
!ilroads concerned or the representa-
ies of the American Railway asso
i ation located, at the various de
partment headquarters and mobiliza
tion and concentration points."
The new press bureau of 4he war
department issued its first bulletin,
e aung that suitable propellers for
a-rplanes on the border have been se
cured and are being sent forward.
NO NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS
ARRIVE; BATTERIES EN ROUTE
No national guard regiments have
yet reached the border here. Neither
have the two batteries of the Fifth
field artillery reached Fort Bliss from
Fort Sill. Okla. The militia troops
have been on the road three davs now.
hltt ti.n,,c nf th. e.rln. ,....,. KI. tnTO
nr, mt,n ..... i. : ,H ' who had conducted the parley, re
" ..M.J Ui'lUJUL . If. UimV3 .. . r. ..
the garrison. The telegram says:
"Gen. Gomez, who went cut in per
son," the message continues, "having
obtained the same reply, he made a
proposal to the American commander,
in order to avert a conflict between
the two forces, that they should stay
Garcia Asks God to Forgiae
His Enemies; Renieria
Mule, Shrugs Shoulders.
RANGELSMOKES
LAST CIGARET
Two
Their
of the Four
Innocence;
Protest
Rod
riguez Gets Life Term.
By RALPH A. LYND.
EM1NG, N. 3L. June 30. Facing
II death with the calmness and stoi
" cism of Tnrlfnns Ttt.h! T?..,...
ila and Taurino Garcia, the first two
fit frlA ran-tlnlrif a Xrilll-a- . in
American troops. Insisted on passing " " T . "f . A . uaaa"3
through the town, Lieut CoL Rlvas, condemned to die for their participa
tion in tne Columbus raid, mounted th
sible to get anything definite on the
thn Wftnt- Tcl,rai1.Cniitlia.ut.im 11..
but none have yet reached the border. ,tne ground fnr hours, meanwhile
t e! n TnrA 4 i stir Am f a
uiub uax ci tu agn jvd iui3duu ,v
EXTRA PAY FOR FOREIGN
SERVICE WILL BE ALLOWED
SAN ANTONIO, T-Kas. June 16.
Wol'e thousands of national
e-ia'dsmen were moving over con-
F" --c & lines tnAttv tnvrnrA harder sta
tins, extraordinary piecautlons were I
taken to prevent the exact routings and i
enter the city but the American com
mander refused and both chiefs retired, i
"The Americans advanced and sud-
Washington, D. C, June 30 Extra I which lasted two hours."
pay for foreign service will be allowed
the American troops se-ving across the, RnnilP fiflMF CCWM TO nfAPF7
i Mexican border under a decision today
uj- comroier arwicK or tne treasury.
Enlisted men will receive 20 percent
additional, and officers tf-n per cent.
The controler also f-ave the opinion
that government emploves who enlist
in the national guard are entitled to
full pay from their civil position for
TO ACCEPT A TROOP COMMAND
scaffold here this morning and were
launched Into eternity.
Garcia, who walked to his deatn
with a crutch, when asked If he had
anything to say, stated that he was in
nocent and asked that God forgive his
ecmles. Renterla shrugged his should
ers and said that he had nothing to
say.
The drop was sprung at 6:20 oclock
and the men went nrnnnunm1 rfH hv
I Dr. P. M. Steed and Dr. E. 8. Milford
20 minutes later.
Rusel Smokes Last CisTaret.
Jo-IUngel and Juan-Castlilo ware
executed at 7:1S oclock. Rangel asked
for a cigaret as his hands -were being
uouuu, ana smeitea Ull he reached the
OFBOMPRGE
Former German Army Offi
cer Is Acquitted of Con
spiracy Charge.
New Tork, June 30. Hans Tauseher,
former German army officer, was ac
quitted today by a Jury of conspiracy
to blo.v up the Wetland canal.
Judge Hand In his charge instructed
the juiors that if they found Tauseher
knowingly furnished the dynamite or
the pistols, they must find him guilty
of conspiracy.
Testimony which I do not find has
been disputed." the court said; "has been
adducttl to show that "Von der Goltz.
sent by and equipped by Capt. von Pa
pen, did go to Canada and. finding the
canal guarded by soldiers, returned to
this country. The only matter of dis
pute is whether Tauseher was aware
of the purpose for which Von der Goltz
and Capt. von Papen wanted the dyna
mite and the pistols furnished by
Tauseher."
The jury was out 50 minutes. When
the verdict was read, Capt. Tauscher's
wife, lime, Gadskl, the opera singer,
and Miss Lotta Tauseher, his daugh
ter, swayed in their seats and wept
with happiness.
The Indictment, which charged com
plicity in a plot to destroy the Welland
canal with dynamite, was returned by
a federal grand Jury April 19 last and
named Tauseher, Capt. Franz von Pa
pen, Germany's recalled military at
tache. Wolf von Igel. his secretary,
Alfred A. Fritzen and Constantino
Covani. Tauseher has been agent here
v.. v,c uiutfii ,uu wums.
The War At a Glance
PARIS today announces that the
German crown prince's troops
carried a redoubt east of hill
No. 34 In the Verdun region, liter
ally crushing its defenders, but that
a spirited counter rtlaclc drove
them out.
Lively engagements, chiefly be
tween artillery forces and patrol
detachments, contipuc along the
British front and large sections of
the French line, sjuth of the Ar
gonne. The German apparently
are endeavoring to wrpit the initia
tive f i om the Franco-British forces.
L
FREICH BURIED
OiEfl SHELLS
Germans Capture Fortified
Works in Terrific As
sault Near Verdun.
at night and has appointed four addi
tional patrolmen to help in guaraintr
the town. Two of these men are
mounted and patrol the residence dis
trict, and the other two assist the
present force of police-in looking after
idi nnsine&a section nr in. rnvn
t. . -, .. -r. I ior a oisrarr aw m iinnrf. -- Tv-i..,- i -- - ---
iteming, . al dun ju. .ttoque uo
&erno?r,'e EL PASO COMPANIES
Salazar. left Deming this week to ac-1 'D& n" yfh""0"0., RECEIVE CHARTERS AT AUSTIN
cept tn appontment :n the command or . tlo -"".; 7.0.7.11 ?'? .. t., t. , -r... e,. "
Hon inspector, read the death war- ing El Paso companies were today
t rant. i th,m TIia.v .i. ... ... j i... .4. -, m ...
v "fc". ucu un.ju ..etc t uMiinicu uj liic acucuiij Ji auiie
. rants
the first 36 days of i leir service ex- "en- Francisco Gonzales, the com
cept that the combireri salaries nf ttt. mander of the Juarev rJrrison. In
iicers will De subject to the 12000 lim- "luIr receivea ner sin-e nis aepanure. broken and death was almost In stan
ftattnn r-rn-e i. i. , Gomex states that thtfr H9T, h..n at ' . "" buu ucain was almost lnsian.
.... j ,. . ---..---,-.----...-.-, I ,-." . taneous.
fr:.w in i...V'V;i..,n. r,"';'" . A strong guard of citizens was on
Paris, France, June 30. In a terrific
attack upon the French positions east
of Hill Z9i, In the Verdun, the Germans
captuieJ a fortified -work In the first
line of the French trenches after the
garrlion had been literally buried un
der a storm of shells. The position was
recaptured by a brilliant French coun
ter attack, according to an official
statement Issued by the French was
affice today.
The Germans also delivered a power
ful attack on the French positions in
Avocourt wood and west of Hill 304. but
all their efforts are declared to have
been checked with heavy losses to the
attackers. Considerable activity is re
ported on the front from Neuport to the
Alsne.
The statement adds:
"In Belgium last night at about 11
oclock. following a preparatory artil
lery fire. German -forces attacked a
salient of our line not far from the
road, between Nieuport and Lorabaert
zyde. A counter attack was imme
diately delivered which drove the
enemy out of one section of trench
where they had gained a footing. Be
tween Chaulnes and Boy a strong Ger
man reconnoitering party caught un-
I for service in Mexico since the first of
schedule of the numerous snecial RfinCEVTI T DTCACrn iTTur 1
- - - - . .vuuuu X.&. A x i.i.ruu nr. i..
rTnn8rnsTQnbT!niLte bvIne,ftIANY VOLUNTEER APPLICATIONS " melu c d3 Gomez- wife ot
Gen. Vnnston was instructed by the . ' " , Roque Gomez, and her niece, Jesusa
secretary of war to ex- cjse the utmost I Wster Bay. L. L. June 30. CoL Valverde. have also left Peraing. where
... ., ItOOsevelt issued tnn fnlTnurlnc- frw4.v .!,- u-A-a ..n. KAHj. -. ,t,n .-.
preca-i'on in concealing details ot the regarding the anniicint. who "WuTr i ..',.,-" ?"" " "","."
" - ----- -. - ,w c. v"b(jC ui ttaooiui mil IVUillCIlCIL
trained today, nearly 15D strons.
AVIATORS EAGERLY OFFER
THEIR SERVICES TO COUNTRY
rrbil zitlon. General ranagers of all
Ti'lroad. carrying trocpr have been re
quested not to make public the move
ment of trains.
It was explaned at headquarters that
these rreasures were taken to render
more di'f lcult any att. mpt that might
be made to wreck traits.
Iufonnation obtained by the Intelli
gence offices has indicated that such
an attempt might be made.
Reports from Gen. Pershing from of
ficers at border posts detained no In
dication of hostility bv Mexican troops.
HtDorts that a strong Mexican force
had interrupted Gen. Pershing's line of
communication were ienita.
Const Troopa Movina-.
San Francisco. CaU June 30. Na
tional guardsmen of the western states
were ocng mobilized en the Mexican
border today as fas; as troop trains
could carry them sonthward. All the
Oregon militiamen were en route, a
large portion of ths California guard
had departed and Montana's regiment
expected to entrain today. Washlng
tnns tuiliua was awaiting orders to
c ove at any time.
Both state and fidcral troons will
move urder a veil ot of'Icial secrecy
In tne future, as onleis went out last
t 'get from the headquarters of the
western department of the army for
b'dd'ng the giving out of any lnfor-
znaiion regarding mobilization.
Toe second .Montana regiment of ln-
Dtry was to depart f&r Douglas. Ari
zona, today, if roillntr tock could be
secured.
Some Militiamen IlnM Bark.
Lincoln, Neb June 36. The fourth
Xebraska regiment wil' be fully mus
tTed ar-d physically examined and
ready tu begin its Journey to the bor-d-r
by noon today, according to of
fie als th's morning.
The musterine of the Fiftl. rep-lmont
I has lei' delayed on aoHnt of the re-
' fusal of about a half rom&anr from
ooiaen'urg to taKe tt oath. It was
said th s morning tha most nf the
company has decided to comply.
TUCSON HAS FIVE UNITS
OF HOME DEFENCE BODIES
Tucson. Ariz.. June 2. Tucson Is
wen eQo-pped for home defence, should
the need arise. It ha more defence
witts than other city near the border.
There have been organized home
guard Irfantry, home guard cavalry, a
rifle clbb battalion. hUH-mobile corps
as auxiliary to home giards. and a
local oranch of the A.tk rican Red Cross.
Phys. clans beean orc?rizinc a. hiuni.
taie-M ps Thursday. In ti'dltion to these ' DEXfES H.I.TXOIS MILITIA
?h ncL mea8uref- ,iunon ...haa Bent IXSUFFICIEXTLY EttUIPrED
fantT-v ,mnmni ani a ho.nit.i ,. ! 6Pringfield.lL. June 30. Governor
Incorporated m compny K is the Tuc-
serve with hfm in event of war:
"It is pnysically impossible to reply
Individually to the organizations and
to the men who have communicated
with us, but I will see that their ap
plications are carefully filed for future
reference so that in the event of hos-'
tillties they can be apprised of what
action Is contemplated." j
uners or equipment Include almost
everything necessary, from shoes to
automobiles and airplanes.
HALF OF NEW YORK GUARD
IS ON WAY TO RnnnCD Guzman, have inforr-.ed Gen Pershing
IO U WAI 1U BUKUfcK , that there Is no cause for apprehension
New York, June St. One-half of on tnls scre. according to news re
New Tork state's national guard Is celvd here today. They found no evi
now on its way to the border, and the dence that the Mexican were prepar
rest -will be moved forward as soon as ins to cnt tne -American line of com
they can be mustered in and equipped munlcat'on. Howev.-r. hc garrison at
MaJ. Gen. John F. O'Ryan, command- "xsnian, they said, haa been somewhat
ing. announced todav. I increased by cavalry arriving from the
A dearth of acceptable hnr nfl south.
mules Is delaying mobilization move- '
menia.
The Fifth regiment of New Jersey en
$10 bills, in violation cf section H9 of surviving Villlsta bandits who were
tne frecerai penal rent. s. LIndauer
and Santa Rosa Maruffo went on their
bond when they were given a hearing
before U. S. commissioner B. T. Mc-Keyes.
$30,000: purpose, merchandising; Incor
porators, C E. Kelly, J. H. Pollard and
J. M. Pollard.
Pan American Coffee Coi. capital
stock, J 15.000: incorporators, W. E.
Smith, L. I. Nlblo and J. M Davlst
The stage was set for the closing act . fSI3 JB Co, capital
In the drama of the lives of th. flvi ?- 0: incorporators., J. E.
duty at the Jail all night and the town
was patroled by militia, but there were
no disorders.
The Staire All Set.
der our fire was dispersed before it
could reach our trenches.
Kelly & Pollard Co., capital stock, ! "Between the Oise and the Aisne two
omer iiennan patrots were aispersea
In a like manner, one in front of
Quennevierres and the other north
east of Vingre.
"In the Champagne district an en
emy attack with hand grenades upon
our advanced posts west of Butte-de-Mesnll
was easily repulsed."
Rogers. J.
Rogers.
X. Robertson and T. H.
SCOUTS SAY MEXICANS NOT
THREATENING TO CUT LINE
Columbus. N. M J"ne 30. Scouting
detachments sent out to investigate re
ports that the Carranclstas were con
centrating large caialry forces near
LINE OF COMMUNICATIONS
REPORTED ENTIRELY OPEN
Columbus. N. M, June 30. Officers
here said today that the line of com
munications was entirely open. They
denied a report that a truck train
Chicago. I1L. June 30 Tho Tlnii.H Puna for Columbus to Colonia Dub-
States entralSonesee6 .&! '"2S!i I
its way to successrni organization with ' 7Ca " , ZZZ7 WVL' Iv , T11"
nearly a score of prospective military j f 5tlrnck traiad le" Columbus
irn - : a.- -.,-- !and that none was thn raadr to Imta
"ws w is rosier. Aliss i. iz.
Hornbee a Chicagro woman, tele graphed
from New York that she would like to
VOlUnteflr htr Ai-irfna in ,.
Her application was tabled because of
her sex.
and that none was then ready to leave.
TREVINO WIRES MEXICO CITY
OF AMERICAN WITHDRAWAL
Mexico City, Mex, June 30. The war
ministry nas Deen lniormea by Qen.
implicated In the raid on Columbus on
Jiarcn s, when deputy sheriff Lee
Caldwell and his assistants arrived
here yesterday bringing Eusebio Ren
terla, Taurino Garcia, Juan Caslllo and
Jose Rangel to the Luna county Jail
to pay their debt to the state of New
Mexico for their share in the massa
cre of American citizens In the little
border town there three months ago.
On two occasions, the men were
granted a reprieve by governor Mc
Donald, who wished to make an ex
haustive study of the evidence and the
... uroupt out at tne trial nere Secretary Tumulty arranged before
Anrll f..f "tfc" ar? ,Mea,e? ,n I leaving to keep in touch with Mexl
.4PnreL,A"'J SS &" re"e.' Ji!2" can developments.
I - " . i.uviotw ,n.A.i;.b. n i. i
bail heen shot In th. tttwtt nf rnl,.-n '
bus during the raid, were executed,
as there were no extenuating circum
stances in their cases.
Of the five remaining bandits. Jose
Rodriguez had his sentence commuted
to life imprisonment by the governor,
but the other four were condemned
to expiate their crimes on the scaffold,
where their fellow assassins yielded
up their lives three weeks ago.
Rodriguez was extended executive
clemency because governor McDonald
felt convinced that he was somewhat
less culpable than his six associates.
Of the four men hanged, Garcia used
a crutch because of having been shot
through the hip. as had been also Ran
gel. Castillo and Renterla had been
wounded in the legs.
Prisoners Heavily Guarded.
The prisoners were brought to Dem-
inB unaer neavy guard. The train
was stopped oetore tne town
leached and the men were loaded
automobiles and taken to
NATIVES OF CORFU MAKE
FORTUNES OFF THE SOLDIERS
Corfu, Greece, Jnne 30. The "Corflo
tes" as the Greeks call the inhabitants
of the island of Corfu are out to make
, PRESIDENT WILL SPEAK
I AT PRESS CLUB BANQUET
! Washington. D. C, June 30. Presl-
riant TTTITonn 1 as- ?. 1't.n. Vstole .!
after noon 'today To Tpak tonight at ' SKU."&dK and nMS
the New Tork Press club banquet. Ac- f h l&SXi,f2 JSJ'ifl'R?
companylng him was Mrs. Wilson, sec
retarv Tumulty and Vance McCormlck
the new chairman of the Democratio
French. British. Italians and Greeks.
retary Tumulty and Vance McCormlck. f r""?c4r" l"f,l" wiSSi..nH.n,. ?
the new chairman of the Democratio ar? i Y"e"aJ,!?e5ce"dan.u of
a ... .. iouk line ol raraies ana corsairs.
national cumnmiee. no presiaent , and M4.fI-rfi r rnm-ntlrUm u-Klrh 1 a new uemana zor xne llfimeaiaie WIIB
punned to return early tomorrow. Shfi-ShS? tasaSTnVSK "?lc drawal of American troow now on Mex
Reports From Mexico City
Say More Hostile Course
is Urged By CabineL I
PEACE WORKERS 1
ARE DISCOURAGED'
Lansing Tells Arredondo j
5. Expects Early Reply
From Gen. Carranza.
WASHINGTON. D. O. Jnne 10.
i3houId the Mexico reply to the
American demand for a state
ment of Carranxa's attitude prove to
be In defiance of the United States
as was today Indicated, president Wil
son probably would arrange to lay the
wnoie matter before congress Imme
diately. It Is known that interests la
the Mexican capital which have been,
exerting everr effort to avert a break
between the United States and Mexico,
are much discouraged. -Carranza has
not yet replied, though secretary of
state Lansing marts It plain a. brief
talk with Mexican ambassador Elieo
Arredondo today that an early reply
was expected by the United States.
From the standpoint of the Unltea
States, the release of the captured
Tenth- cavalry prisoners has delayed
military action but has not rellevsd,
the critical diplomatic situation.
Will Stand by Recent Order.
Gen. Carranza and his adviser
have determined to stand by the
order given Gen. Jacinto Trevino.
and no way to avert a break
between the United Stes and Mexico
is seen, according ti private advices
from reliable source. in Mexico City.
The orders to Gen. Trevino were to
attack American troops moving in any
direction except toward the interna
tional t oundary.
The advices said a faction of the
Mexican cabinet was u-glng an even,
more defiant attitude tow ard the United,
States, and wanted Gen. Carranza to
Include in his reply tj th United States
a new demand for the immediate with-
jTAFT IS HUGHES' GUEST;
TALK POLITICS AT LUNCH
Binghamton. N. T.. June 30. Former
president Taft was the luncheon guest
today of Charles E. Hughes at Tre
meden. The Misses Hughes having de
cided to lunch with their uncle. Dr.
Colin S. Carter, gave the nominee and
Mr. Taft an opportunity to discuss the
political situation undisturbed.
Mr. Hughes accompanied Sir. Taft
to the station on his departure.
INVESTIGATE Gl CGE-VIIEE"!
AFFAIRS IN ALASKA
Washington, D. C, June 30. The in
tertsate commerce commission today
ordered an investigation into the Alas
kan rt'lroad and steamship situation as
a result of rharees that the American
was ! Smelting and Refining company and the
enaoies them instead merely of a
doubling their prices, to put them up
ten times and smile blandly about it
The Serbs came out of Albania with
ragged uniforms and blankets. They
had to buy everything anew, and th
Corflote was there to furnish it. The
Serbs are well paid (out of the coffers
of the Entente) and It is impossible for
them to send money home to their
families even if they want to, conse
quently, the Corflote asks whatever
price he likes and the Serb, having
nothing else to do with the money,
generally pays it
The readiest get-rich-quick opera
tions In Corfu, however, were specu
lative, not commercial. When the Serbs
amveu uii (.ae uuano. a, oeaien imi
'without a country, what thev broucrht
witn tnem in tne snape or money was
largely Serbian paper currency. The
coriiotes generally would not accept
It but a few wise heads had the real
instinct of their trading ancestors and
bought the Serbian paper in at 37 cen
time the dinar, a depreciation of S3
percent. When the allies decided to
guarantee the reconquest of Serbia and
lean soil
The- advices did not Indicate when, a
reply from Gen. Carrantrv regarding his
attitude toward American forces might
be expected. The last official word,
was a message from spc!al agent Rod
gers who said he exocted the note to
be handed nitn Wedi-eaJay night.
Announces Surrender of Prisoners.
Formal announcement of the surrsn-t
der of the Carrizal prisoners was con
veyed to secretary of state Lansing by
Ellseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate.
Later he said he had
discussed the general si'uatlon but had
brought no commun.'cat.'on from his
government.
Mexican ambassad.-r Arredondo tooV
i up with secretary jf state Lansing
again today the ques;cn of alleged
mistreatment of Mexicans on the Amer
ican side of the border, and asked that
steps be taken to prevent further trou
ble of this sort.
ded inw iKjnneaott Copper company have been , the refitting of XqSerbl,n army be
the Jail. I able to monopolize and control the cop- I r,nn Sraest. thlre wm a bSXn ii
in mM i ner imliintT-v in h. i.rrii.n thmtth s3".."1 earnest, tnere was a Doom u
NEW MEXICO FIRM HOLDS Jacinto Trevino that the American , where a crowd had assembled to watch per industry in the territory through
jfR; nPFN fop mhitta ';;; mH;.7;:r.K;.;.r;T "'v-1- " "iy1"""3.. ?. ,""" ""? lavonusm.
www wa Mtl a VU alllblilA . -as v. u uu "Hw auAiiuuiaCU ValC " AaliU r C C IU4Ur MUCH IflC I OUT J ' - , .,
Albuaueraue. N M inn MTk. towns of San Buenaventura. Las Cru- doomed VlllisUs descended from the PltOMKnT MAllYHXD
Santa Barbara. Tie .M VnT. e: rl r8.m"'u,Pa- anu ssanta lara. lie auioraoones to pass tnrougn the door
has annonnH th. ..,.1 V. ri.-T.1?"'. ?ae? " inese. places were imme-. i me jaii.
aoort as their T; nl.. ...r.'.i"?i , owtely occupied by his forces.
employes who enlisted in the national
guard upon their reti-rn from the front
and that provisions will be made for
the families of any enlisting employes,
should it be needed.
charge of the nartv who brought ihn
MAT REFUGEES MUST STAY j prisoners to Deming. the other depu-
O.V SHIP PROBABLY A WEEK ties being George H. Thomas, special
MVN IS nKIlEVKD SI.AI.V
t. . ,. . , .1 v-iiiuijuise. .iiu., june .r. imam ti.
Deputy sheriff Lee Caldwell was In ' Medford. clerk of the Dorchester county
Washington. D. C, June 30. Many of
the 100 refugees from Mexico at Gal
veston on the navy tender Dixie and
other vessels probably will be com
pelled to stay aboard ship for a week.
Assistant secretary Newton, of the
treasury department, in charge of the
UTAH ARTILLERY BATTERY
REACHES NOGALES. ARIZ.
n.tTi , T -,. J..nc 3C-Tn,e, uth! public health service, announced today
national guard battery of field artll- ' that women hiin . in.,iu.
Tasie a ieU M . . - . f - m. .-
..j, n,,u j.r,- men sue six oilicers.
under command of Captain "W. C Webb,
arrived here early today
on Aerc squadron.
EASTERN MILITIA TROOPS
PASSING THROUGH CHICAGO
Springfield. 11
Dunne today declined to call a special
session of the state legislature "to
pass bills providing for our militia to
agent of the Santa Fe: George Wat-
iwns. ihob. ii. jrarmer, j. w. lioskins
and Z. U. Mason. All the deputies were
heavily armed with sawed off shot
guns and pistols and kept a close
watch on their prisoners In case of
any attempt at rescue.
Militia on the Scene.
women, children and Invalids! Comnsny n nt th. ic.n. x.r.--tnA ....
would be alloweri tn lnnri After merit. Hnn.l r,l 4n.t.,...i vA.n .. . .
cal examination, but that delay could j to assist in 'maintaining order. The
circuit court, and nmmlnenr in Romib.
lican local politics. Vislness and social
circled, is thought to hve been mur-
Saya Americana Warned to Leave.
On returning to the embassy he made
public a message from Mexico City
savine: that aithouirb. the tat ii.nart.
In I mont nari t.I.B-r.n1i. nulal t...t
Serbian paper. Instead of 37 centimes j Rodgers to warn all Americans to
the dinar. It brought 0 and finally. leave Mexico immediately or the Unite
for all practical purposes, par. In a f states government would not be re-
few weeks those who had bought at 37
had almost doubled their capital.
"IF GERMANY ISDEFEATED
LASTING PEACE WILL COME"
Rome. Italy. June 30. A renewed
not be avoided In other cases.
GUARDS AT BRIDGH FIGHT.
CAUSING REPORT OF RAID.
men are commanded bv Cant G- H
Totten, First Lieut J. Isaacks and Sec
ond Lieut. Holt. They made the Jour
ney from Columbus to Deming in mo-
statement denying that the Illinois na-
Chlcaco 111- Jnne 30. Chle ...? "V"" " """ inauincienuy
tinned todav o be the "ehanc-e rrVi "
or rather "change roads" soint In the i MnvKmvr nr rwccnrrnr
I movement of federalized national I " wn.rri i vn-n mer-r ncr.
I f.uafd? i? eastern department, Nevada, Mo, June 30. The only in'
i nin cura army, to tne Mexican formaUon concerning movements of
border During the night, the first Missouri national gulrd available to-Conne-Ucut
cavalry, the Connecticut day was that the First infantry would
slgnj.1 .orpe and the Eighth Massa- depart this afternoon for the border
ichasetta infantry passed throni-h . rtiwri ..nnr.hir. ,. .j -,r.J
hicago. morning.
be properif eVnlpped" as reouVsted by ld on the brldpe a Jcedona. Texas,
a Chicago bullneS Tmal "S SlS2a I i HM.!1'" " Ts learn1 Jha.1 th,f ."
ncs uiuiuc aiiu Klen D'Jt UL a ngni pe
San Antonio. Texar. June SO. A re- ! lr trucsu Aait- Gtn- Harry T. Her
.- ani. -c.. r. tt....,. i-. ' rlncr and Pant Arthur tT Ttrn.1, nlst
' .
last
. dered on a lonel . l in nnrehester ' omo. Jtaiy. jnne ju. A renewea
county ?at niehX Dorchester soc,aat actiTlty for pac ,8 predicted
i xne body has not been found. The l 'r "- ....,
i car in which he vai rising was found I
oy tTea tiunaiey. a farmer who had
been guided to the spot by a stranger. I
DISPOSAL rusT FOR PLAI.WIEW.
Plainvlew, Texas. Jun 30 N. Wer
lnskiold, an engineer from Dallas, is
here to arrange for the erection of a
plant for sewage disposal.
THE DAT IN CONGRESS. :
eponsiDie lor tne eonseauences. ac
tually less than 300 had -left Mexico
City and not more than 3M left the
surrounding country.
Most of Them to Remain.
"The greater majority of Americana
in Mexico City." says the dispatch,
(Continued on Page 3 Column 4.)
tween two soldiers of the guard. In
which both were woicced.
CENSORSHIP IS CLOIPED
OX WESTERN DEPARTMENT
St Louis, Mo.. June 30. It was an
nounced at army headquarters here
night that bandi's had made a , motored up from Columbus to be pres- "r
wiii. . mc execuuuns. t r
Father J. M. Carnet, priest of the I
Catholic church, was closeted with the ; &
men for half an hour after their ar- j
rival. None of them showed any fear '
or emotion, but on several occasions .
during their talk with their spiritual
auTiser, iney joneo ana laugned.
3Iore Deputies Named.
Owing to the feeling prevalent
""' -" neauyuariera nere amonc a large number of th. nni"
mat uruers nave oeen receiveo. irom of rj-mlno- t thia Tim. nn ,7.,r e
Washington forbidding the giving out the exeSuIon of thi baSditsfnH Thf
mnventnf0f,SaU?n "Z?1" trooJ nearnfof "the' town" tothe border'
?n Tn? e-tfrneLor. ""t"181 " , b"iu w- c- Simpson has arranged to
in the western department. I strengthen the force of DOllce on rtiity
o-
Senate.
Resolution asking the presi
dent to stay ex.titlrn of Sir
Roger Casement introduced by
senator Martlne and referred
to foreign relation? committee.
Bgan considerat'on of agri
cul appropriation bill.
ilome.
Agreed to adjourn from Sat
urday to Wednesdny for the
Fourth of July.
Considered miscellancnous bus-ness.
O-
!
s
e.. .
Where Boys Can Play
The "Y" Their Favorite
H -"-EORGE, why did you join toe Y. M. G X?" "Vhyf asked George,
8 -j perplexed over such a fool question, "Where eke can a boy go ior
- exercise and play? No other place ia fixed up for it." "Weil, what
do you like best in the yi" 'Swimmm' pool," came the swift reply. "Do
all the boys come for the swimming pool?" "Nope sose come far te Jjames
and other stuff." "Why do moat boys join?" "Why, for the fun of it They
have more fun in the gym and pool than they can anywhere eke Besides,
they take an interest in boys there."
And there you have it in a. nutshell. Everything he sees at the T" looks
good to him. It is his bunch swarming everywhere in all the activities and
schemes and plans and he just likes to go. And as George asked "Where else
is there" you find just such a state of things? o place but the Y. M. C A.
A membership in the Y. M. C. A. .will be given to ike boys absolutely
free for obtaining only a small number of new subeeribers. Odf to see H. H.
Fris, circulation manager of the 1 Paso Herald.
fcrikes and Rumors of War Do Not Disturb El Paso's Calm Nor Grovdi
