The Caldwell Watchman
OL. 30. COLUMBIA, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1918. NO. 30
PRISONERS HELD
AT CHIHUAHUAARE
DEMIANDED BY U. S,
Wilson Calls Ranking Members
Of Congressional Leaders
For Conference
SITUATION IS [XPLAIN[D,
ON LEAVING, SENATOR STONE
SAID, "THE SITUATION IS EX
CEEDINGLY ACUTE."
ORDERS HURRIED TO MILITIA
Activity in Administration dirLles Has
Not Been Paralleled Since Days
Preceding the Spanish.
American War.
Washington.-President Wilson call
td the ranking members of the Con
gressional foreign affairs committee
to the White House and informed
them of a communication sent to Gen.
Carranza. He told them he would
take no further action, and would not
desire to address ('ongress before a
reply was received.
As he left. Senator Stone said, "The
situation is exceedingly acute."
Earlier in the day Secretary of
State Lansing, after a conference with
the president, gave out the text of a
virtual ultimatum to Carranza, de
manding the release of American
prisoners at Chihuahua and an ex
planation of Carranza's actions and
Intentions.
There was e'ery Indicltion that hos
tilities cannot be delayed longer than
48 hours. They may be forced earlier
by Carranza.
The president's action in summon
ing Senator Stone of Missouri and
Representative Flood of Virginia,
chairmen, respectively, of the Senate
and House foreign relations commit
tees, with the Republican members,
was a frank admission by the presi
dent that war is at hand.
The discussion closed a day of fe
verish activity in administration cir
cles, in which there has been no par
allel since the days preceding the
Spanish-American war.
Last Move to Complete Record.
The ultimatum to Carranza was ad
mitted to be the last diplomatic move
to complete the record of negotiations
by the United States to solve the
Mexican problem by pacific methods.
It is designed to place Carranza in the
place of aggressor and establish as an
historical fact that the United States
resorted to arnis only when compelled
to do so in defense of its national
honor.
With the publication of the note it
became known for the first time that
Carranza already had assumed full re
sponsibility for the treacherouls am
bush of troops at Carrizal.
In a note to the State Department,
suppressed for 24 hours until the
president had completed his plans to
summon Congressional leaders, Car
ranza defiantly admitted that he gate
the orders to Gen. Jacinto Trevlno
that resulted in the Carrizal attack,
and that the American cavalry was
attacked for violating his orders.
President Wilson did not attempt to
blink the fact that this was vlrtually
a declaration of war by Carranza.
Carranza was told in the ultimatum
served that his acceptance of respon
sibility for the treacherous Carrizal
ambush can be accepted by the United
States in no other light than as "full
avowal of deliberate hostile action
against the forces of the United States
now in Mexico."
Army officers redoubled their ef
forts to get the national guard to the
border immediately.
A high army officer said the militia
would be rushed to the border with
in 48 hours, even if it is necessary to
send the men down on freight cars.
Secretary of State Lansing left a
sick bed wlf.n summoned to the
White House by the president for
half an hour, then went to the War
Department, where he was closeted
with Secretary Baker for half an hour.
Frank L. Polk, counsellor for the
State Department, was summoned to
his office. He conferred with .Leon
Canova, chief of the Mexican di'r
sion, and also with Representt.tive
Flood.
Secretary Baker, who had a mid
night conference with the president.
was at his office at 10 o'clock and re
mained all day.
During the day Secretary Baker was
* WILSON'S ULTIMATUM
* DEMANDING RELEASE OF *
* AMERICAN PRISONERS. *
* " \ashington. he 0 T : of ths "
* inote to the Mexican dl:facto gov
* in'lllll nt. translllitted 0 ,.Inll's *
* Linn itRudgers. spjic-l rp)r'.enta- *
* tive' of the Alnt'rican government *
* in lexixico City. says:
* "Mr. Arredondo delivered to this *
* govTrnrIPelt the followinlg (c l111111- *
!* nl at I S
"I am, directed by my governl
nil'itt to inllf r'l your exce(ill.nc ' y.
a ilth rlefrence to th, ('arrizan in
* ldien, that the chief l i ' i tiv'. *
* iii 'o h ;Ilhe1 Mexic.an War D-;ia D i
ia nt, gave ordlv rs to (i . i: ill- *
to I. 'r.vin, t t to prmit .me1'
i(':llt f, '1*- from1 ( it.. P-'.:,!)inl 's
c('iltuln to tlvantce furt: Ii " sohI . *
* .O ' ' ir it r (a(t <- or ,st ' '
• r f ',l poliint:; wuh 'r" !hi,, l - *
e:ttd,'. tllnd to ( (ppos an y nl eu''' "-*
I* fo S 1of .i li :'i'sni -oldin tie int o
1* 1('lean ii lriory. 'ti ls-:e rhl d :'i.s
i \ire ibrouiiht byv Gen. 'Trevitno io
Sthe attentionr of ( in. l:'r Ihia. *
* who inc nowliedgitd the receipt of *
* t ('olli ll}!lli tioll relative " t ilre
' to.
* "'On the 22d instant, as you•r i
* ixel lency klows. an American
* force tmoved east ward qulite far
* from its base, notwithstandinz the
* above orders, and was en;ag'd by *
* Mexican troops at Carrizal, State
* of (hihuahua. As a result f the *
* encounter several men oin both *
* side were killed and wound w nded *
* and 17 American soldiers were *
* made prisoners.'
* "You are hereby instructed to *
* hand to the minister of foreign re- *
* lations of the defacto government
* the following:
" 'The government of the United *
* States can put no other construe- *
* tion upon the eommunicationt
* handed to the secretary of state *
* of the United States on the 24th *
* of June by Mr. Arredondo, under
* instructions of your government. *
* than that it is intended as a form
* al avowal of deliberately hostile *
* action against the forces of the *
* United States now In Mexico, and *
. of the purpoe l.to attaok them
* without provocation whenever *
* they move from their present po- "
* sition in pursuance of the objects *
* for which they were sent the re. *
t* notwithstanding the fact that *
* those objects not only involve no *
* unfriendly intention towards the *
* government and people of Mexico. *
* but are. on the contrary, intended *
* only to assist that government in *
* protecting itself and the territory *
* and people of the United States *
* against irresponsible and insurg- *
* ent bands of rebel marauders. *
* "'I am instructed, therefore, by *
* my government to demand the im- *
* mediate release of the prisoners *
* taken in the encounter at Carrlzal, *
* together with any property of the *
* United States taken with them, *
* and to inform you that the gov- *
* ernment of the United States ex- *
* ment of the United States to un- *
• derstand it has determined upon, *
* and that it also expects that this *
* statement be made through the *
* usual diplomatic channels, and not *
* through subordinate military com- *
* manders.' "
in constant communication with Maj.
(,en. Hugh L. Scott. chief of staff:
Maj-Gen. Tasker H. Bliss. assistant
chief of staff: Brig-Gen. Albert L.
Mills, chief of the division of militia
affairs: Brig..Gen. William Crozer.
chief of the bureauo of ordnance, and
ofiers of the adjutant-general's de
partment.
Lieut.-Gen. Nelson Ah. Miles, U. S.
A.. retired, who was commanding gen.
eral of the army during the Spanish.
American War, wag in conference with
Secretary Baker and staff officers dur
ing the afternoon.
Will Send Militia as Mustered.
There was a constant stream of
contractors, railroad officials and
others passing through the offices of
Brig.-Gen. William Sharp, quartermas.
ter general of the army, and Col.
Chauncey Baker,' his assistant, who
has charge of arranging railroad trans
portation for militia organizattons.
Steps were taken to speed up arrange
ments to place transports at the dis,
posal of commanding generals of all
the departments, so that militia may
entrain immediately ftor the border.
Gen: Mills, chtef of the militia dlvit.
,iou, Informed Secretary Baker that
late telegrams said the miltla of Mis
sourt. Iowa. Kansas and Wisconsin
are being mustered Into the United
States service. It is believed militia
organizations in practically all the
states will begin muster at once.
The War Department will not wait
till the full organizations are muster
ed. but if Gen. Funston orders it, unit_
will be sent to the border as fast am
muster is completed.
WARSHIP EXPECTED
IN PREPAREDNESS
JULY 4 CELEBRATION WILL BEI
MARKED BY PARADE-SENA
TOR BROUSSARD ACTIVE.
PLANS ARE WELL UNDER WAY'
Cannons Have Been Obtained From'
New Orleans and a Complemet
of Competent Gunners Will Be
Sent to Man the Guns.
lI (ton Itouge.-.
I'nited States wa.rship anchored in
the harbor at Baton Itouge, and a
grieat Plreparedness parade through
thle streets of the city will be the feat
ure of the Fourth of Jul' celebrationr
at the capital, if thei plans of the com'
Inittee carry. Of the Preparedness pa
rade there is no doubt, as the plan,
for it are well under way, and one
of the big fighters of Uncle Samr'
navy will be here if it is anything like
a feasible proposition on the part of
the government.
That it is quite probable that a.
United States war vessel will be in
port here on July 4 is shown by the
following telegram which was recelv
ed by Governor Pleasant and mem
hers of the committee, from Senator
Brouisard:
Hear From Broussard.
"Secretary of navy in attendance on
convention at St. Louis and I have
taken up with Navy Department quee
tion of securing a war vessel for your
celebration July 4, and the matter is
being looked into with the probabtllhy
that I may be able to secure what is
desired. As soon as I have more de
finite information will advise you by
wire. Please impart this information.
to other members of your committee."
The committee in charge sent i
grams. to Fntted 'Stat ±" 5-flak
Ransdell and Broussard and ales'1on
gressman Morgan, telling them of the
extensive plans for the Fourth of July
celebration and urging them to use the i
best offices in securing the govern
ment's consent to send a sea fighter to I
Baton Rouge. The senators and con
gressman named were asked to co-ope
rate with the entire Louisiana dele
gation in urging the loan of one of
the prides of the navy.
This telegram was signed by Gov
ernor Pleasant and Mayor Grouchy
and Captain Ogden and T. Sambola
Jones of the citizens' committee.
Cannon have been obtained from
New Orleans and a complement of
competent gunners will be sent here
to man the guns.
STATE HAPPENINGS.
Sealed bids will be received up to
10:30 a. m., Tuesday, July 18th, 1916,
at court house in Alexandria, for the
sale of $80,000.00 5 per cent serial
twenty years good roads bonds of Ra
pides Road District No. 6 of Rapides
Parish, La. Bonds to be in denomina.
tions of $500.00, interest payable semi
annually, bids to be accompanied by
certified check In an amount equal
to 1 per cent of the issue, as liquidat
ed damages In case of failure of suc
cessful purchaser to accept said bonds.
The police jury of Winn parish met
and awarded the contract to the
Blodgett Construction Company of
Kansas City for seven concrete
bridges along the pike across Dugde
monia river. This is a great step for
ward the police jury has made in
building permanent bridges in the
parish.
Senator Boatner's mlltia bill, which
was reported favorably by the Senate
committee on militia and military at
fairs, is intended to prevent the use
of the miltia for police purposes, as
was done several months ago in Jef
terson parish by former Governor
Hall.
The French Opera House at New
Orleans purchased by a real estate
firm at auction to satisfy claims
against owners a month ago, has been
donated to Tulane University. The
identity of the donor is kept secret.
The property is valued at about $70,.
000.
As a result of Shreveport being on
the route of the Jefferson Highway.
Caddo parish is receiving benefits
Sthrough articles published about com
munities along the north and south
road.
The annual test of bonds of all no
taries public for Orleans parish was
begun in civil district court, District
Attorney Chandler Luzenberg and
Judge T. C. W. Ellis conducting the
Investingations,
The. b~egining of the pr,seni state
administration is uniiq' tIn the fact
that only haver no : lllp illtilll(llt h(.een
made except to till va.caneier. :and
these have bet n fe\\. blt tlh t , far
as can he learnled tlloer ha ve h,er en
promises :lmade. t'suallx iii a ,oliitical
campaign promrises hai;t bi ,lil itadte
by thie scores befor'e the , ,,('l+t n. Ibut
Ine only ipromise ;f appiltit ' ; ii; :;i;,I
Colonel I'leasant made duringm the
campaigil wa:; that made :t 'llntla
'land a few other points that he '\\outid
feed tlhe fOrdd'er to th h r tih:rs
pullle h,,e plow.'" 'i'i:. .ignctIrlfl. r ,"
Iforgottn( , for there r. , , l i !!'
I'capital 1!le1 sei ,king iC !j ll;'lin ot ',ho
noit m l !y did not l l,) i ti, l l!l l, it'
who plcicd ev ry drat' ,luui.uh In a
furtive waur. U;i )n t1i + Unill j enºil nt.
M1any d'le atli~ n han c'alled on. the
govternor in t ihe intre it e, uitt'e-see
ers and when the confiierece wacl s overI
have replored thai lhy Ii v eor hiopef'l'
of having achieved the-ir object. biln
obviously tihevy hayv receitd 1i dirct
en(ourawin, nent. Those ',-i:)o were
closes to the chief ex.cutiv.e ilur in g
the campaign and who sustained the
rburden of the pulling of the ploy, also
have not as yet been proise d any
thing iuring the first weeks of the
session Baton Rouge was crowded
with persons seeking office. Some few
have been made committee clerks and
still hang on. but the majority disap.
peared, having reached the onclusionluion
that they were accomplishing nothing
by remaining.
Louisiana State University is edu.
cating its sltudents at a per capita
less th ththat of any other Southern
university, according to the biennial
report of President Thomas D. Bloyd.
which makes a strong plea for in
creased appropriation. The report
asks for a $100,000 appropriation for
agriculture buildings. $50,000 for the
purchase of a college farm, $6~i,459.50
to meet the requirements of the Smith
Lever bill, In addition to the regular
appropriation for the maintenance of
the institution.
Dr. Fred Wirt, representing the
United States Bureau of Biological
urvey, has been assigned by the
.  at ,te.Stock Sanitary
Board to supervlsti he Tittl eradica- i
tion campaign in Ascension parish, ioi
placing Dr. L. E. McDonald, who was
recalled recently. Dr. Wirt has charge
of the eradication work in Assump
tion also. and makes his headquar
ters at Napoleonville.
There are on display in the office of
the Donaldsonville Chief, two giant
beets of the Mangel Wurzel variety,
grown by George B. Reuss on his Ger
mania-Elise plantation in upper As
censior They measure 14 1-2 inches
in length, and the larger of the speci
mens weighs 15 pounds. The beets
are used as stock feed.
Having just closed a session at'
which 51 opinions were rendered the
court of appeals for the second cir
cuit will meet again in Shreveport
June 29, for the purpose of passing
on motions for rehearings filed in
those cases in which opinions were
rendered. Fifteen of these opinions
were by Judge Porter, 21 by Judge
Thompson and 15 by Judge Roberts.
Following the demand by citizens
of Wilson for the discharge of negro
brakemen of the Yazoo and Mlssisslp.
pi Railroad and the shooting of a ne
gro trainman, a tense situation be
tween negroes and whites at Wilson
has arisen, according to advices re
ceived at Baton Rouge.
Believed to have been locked in the
store at closing time, a thief blone
open the small safe in the store of Os
car B. Delord, 2501 Claiborne street,
I New Orleans, and stole $143 in cur
rency and a box of cigars. In making
his exit, the robber forced the front
door.
The Charles Pratt, Standard Oil tank
steamer, is tied up at the Standard Ofl
Docks north of Baton Rouge and is
the largest vessel that has come this
far up the Mississippi river in three
years. The Charles Pratt brought 110,.
000 barrels of crude oil from Mexico.
SWest Monroe voted a $45,000 bond
issue for constructing a filtering plant,
doubling the capacity of the water and
light plants, purchase of an auto fire
truck and for street improvement. In
prop~erty valuation the vote was: For,
$108,350; against, $48,640.
Judge John B. Fisher, First City
Criminal Court of New Orleans, i. n
the list of seventeen persons c:arged
in First Recorder's Court for viola
tion of the ordinance relative to not
having "dimmers" on their automobile
headlights.
The Shreveport Chautauqua Asso
ciation met in the Youree hotel, for
the election of officers and other busi
ness. The membership is comp.sed
Sof persons who signed up for season
tickets for the chautauqua next yr.
LAN SING REJECTS
MEDIATION OFFER
IGNACIO CALDERON WITHHOLDS
OFFER AFTER TALK WITH
SECRETARY LANSING.
AWAIT CARRANZA'S REPLY
Meanwhile Both Congress and the
War Department Put New Urgen
cy in the Preparation for War
-Will Protect Pershing.
Washington.-- Efforts toward Latin
Anmerictan niediation in the .Mexican
crisis, favorted by Carranza officials.
collapsed without having reached the
stag.e of a formal proposal to the
United States.
It was made plain by Secretary
Lansing to Ignacio Calderon, minister
of Ilolivia, that the, Washington gov
ernment sees nothing in the situation
that would warrant arbitration pro
ceedings.
Mr. Lansing talked with the minis
ter for half an hour, and is under
stood to have told him that the blame
for the grave outlook rested squarely
upon (;en. Carranza. The attitude of
the United States was so fully out
lined that Mr. Calderon did not men
tion directly the original purpose of
his visit, which was to ask if the
United States would entertain an of
for of the services of its southern
neighbors to aid in averting war.
When the minister left the State
Department he said the time "seem
ed inopportune," and that for the
present the diplomatic representatives
of six South and Central American
countries, who had approached the
Mexican embassy on the subject of
mediation and received assurances
that the Carranza government was fa
vorable to the principles, would tender
their good offices to the United States.
He indicated .hat the attempt to ar
tm* ,.*-AQUi,~j.lig ht be renewed it
Gen. Carranza's reiply to' - Seertaru
Lane:ng's last note furnished any
lEse on which the proposal could be
founded.
The United States now is waiting
for Carranza's final word in reply to
the note demanding release of the
prisoners taken at CarrizaL and a
formal diplomatic announcement of in
tentions.
The note has reached Mexico City.
Special Agent Rodgers reported its re
ceipt, adding that he had failed in
his first efforts to place it in the hands
of the Carranza minister of foreign re
lations. Officials looked for an an
swer within a day or two at most.
Meanwhile both Congress and the
War Department put new urgency in
their preparations for war. There
were indications that should a formal
break occur toward the end of the
week. every possible pre'cautionary
step will have been taken and Gen.
Funston will be in a position to de
fend the border adequately and rein
force Pershing's expedition, although
a ggressive action may be delayed
somewhat.
War Department activities during
the day covered a wide field. Sup
plemental orders to departmental
commanders called for greater haste
in getting the national guard to the
border. Authorization went out to
accept the men under the physical ex.
aminatilons on which they entered
the state service, gostponing final ex
amination until thley are en route or
have reached the border, Those found
unfit will be sent back at once.
Pay For State Troops.
Estimates to cover the pay and
maintenance expenses of the stkte
troops, totaling $88,000,000 up to Jan.
uary 1, were laid before Congress,
With them went figures of $13,000,000
for the purchase of horses and mules
(for army use. The total estimates of
the quartermaster-general alone pass
the $100,000,000 mark.
The House passed the annual army
appropriation bill after adding $26,.
000,000 for emergency purposes dur
Ing the brief debate that preceded the
vote. An urgent deficiency bill car.
rying $25,000,000 for national guard
pay, equipment and transportation
was framed in committee for presen.
tatlon to the House.
Railroad representatives were call.
ed into conference at the War Depart
ment to hasten the movement of
troops and supplies to the border. A
definite plan was mapped out under
which traffic experts of all lines of
Swork will work with army quartermas.
ters in routing trains Special marks
will distinguish cars with army sup.
plies, insuring them right of way at
all switching points.
Plans for military censorship over
newspapers, magazines and other pub.
lications as well as over lines of com
munlcation were talked over.
ROOSEVELT COMES
OUi FOR HUGHES
PROGRESSIVES WILL NOT PUT A
TICKET IN THE FIELD-COL
ONEL GIVES REASON.
SAYSNOMINEE SATISFACTORY
Committee Vote Was 32 to 6. With 9
Dechr. n, to Vote on Ground That
Comrr:mttt Was Exceeding
Its Power.
* (it-i.;. Tile \ l i ' 1 .1 : I . 1 5!,: ' *
* JlJlt ' It'(')I11iil L' 1) V,'' ci: lilt
* grouindi Thai il', ('- l llln il't 'j ;Is l\-*
* t('selidng 1- poie,' I n ct; .-. ii
* action. P
* * e**** s*** * * **
('hicago.--Ily a; vote of :1 to .1 lhe
Progrssi'e nation:(l (co) IIn e!'-' \%ent
on record as being oppi):uidl to putting
a third ticket in the tield". IThe com
liittee voted down a o1110t1il to substl
tute the name of Victor Murdock of
Kansas to fill the vacancy cau ed by
the declination of TIheodore iRooo(1Svelt
to head the Progressive ticket.
John M. Parker of Louisiana. vice
presidential candidate of the P'rogres
sive party, read to the committee a
tehlgraill he received from ('ol. Roose
vlt and his reply. Tile \ice presiden
tial candidate declared lie would not
support hMr. Ilughes, said it was im
possible for him (Parker) to visit Mr.
Roosevelt and expressed regret at the
latter's retirement from politics.
Referring to the Hughes candidacy,
Mr. Parker said:
'His candidacy represents the ter
rific precedent of dragging a judge of
the United States Supreme Court into
the m.ire of politics to be used as a
mask for professional politicians."
. "-uav lh h'ould retire from tim
ticket in favor of a central or weelrse
man, should that course seem best.
Virgil C. Hinshaw, chairman of the
national committee of the Prohibition
party, renewed his offer for the Pro
gressive party to amalgamate with the
Prohibition party. Former Governor
Eugene N. Foss of Massachuseetts, a
candidate for president on the Proht.
bition ticket, was with Mr Ilinshaw.
The committee decided against
opening the session to newspaper men.
John M. Parker led the tight for an
open session and Geerge W. Perkins
opposed it. Mr. Perkins said he had
"confidential information" for the com
mittee from Mr. Hughes, outlining the
position which the Republican nomni
nee takes on various questions.
Troops to Fort Ringgold.
Mission, Tex.-Nine otlicers and
286 men of the Twenty-eighth Infan
try, stationed here for the past eight
months, were rushed to Fort Ringgold,
at Rio Grande City, following receipt
of reports that Mexican bandits were
threatening that town. A machine gun
company accompanied the infantry
men.
Grants Leave and Pay.
New York.-Any employe of the
Western Union who has been In the
company's service more than a year,
will receive half pay during military
service, if called out with the National
Guard, provided this, with military
pay, does not exceed their normal
salaries.
Medical Association Guilty.
Chlcago.-The American Medical
Association was found guilty ot libel.
tng the Clattanooga Medicine Cora
pany, manufacturers of Wine of Car
dui, by a jury. Damages were fixed at
1 cent. The jury had been out six
days.
Potato Famine Threatens.
Amsteredam.-According to the Fbw
waerts, a potato famine is threaten
big Cologne. The quantity available
Sat the present time is 2 1-2 per heed
per week, but the paper declares the
sale will be stopped in the next few
days.
Guarding Panama Canal.
Panama.-The locks of the Panama
canal are being guarded with Increas.
ed vigilance as a result of the Mexl.
can situation.
Taking American Cattle.
San Antonio. Tex--Gustavo Espl*
nosa Mireles, governor of Coahulla,
has ordered the'seizure qj about 100,
000 head of American-owned cattle
and sheep In northern Mexico, as a
"milltary necessity," according to in
formation given to General Greene at
Eagle Pa-s by American ranchera
