yafnttitaton
VOL. U FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY. JUNE 30, 1916. NO. 24
SPEND JULY 4th AT DESLOGE
4th of July Farmers' Pienie
At Unity School House 3 1-2 miles southeast of
Farmington ( near Farmington & Jackson rock road )
More than 1000 people expected----COME
Good Roads Address by Hon. Fred Essen of St. Louis.
Patriotric and Humorous Address by the Eloquent Rev. Steve
Burke.
Music by Gowers Juvenile Band
All kinds of Amusements and good Refreshments
FARMINGTON LOSES IN
FREE MAIL DELIVERY
But Evidence Appears to Be It Was
Through the Machinations of a
Bunch of "Knockers"
The receipts of the Farmington
postoffice for the sale of postage for
the fiscal year ending today, June
30th, again precludes the possibility
of this city securing free mail deliv
ery for the present. The postage
sales for the year will fall just a little
below the $10,000 necessary in order
to secure Such a boon.
Up to the final quarter it seemed
not only possible, but highly probable,
that the postage sales would reach
the $10,000 mark, which would have
put Farmington in the class for free
postal delivery. But at that critical
time it seems an element "got into the
game" which could not have been an
ticipated in a wide-awake and go
ahead community. This was a bunch
of "knockers" who are said to have
adopted methods calculated to block
what might have been a happy con
summation of postal affairs in this
community.
There is every reason to believe
that large quantities of postage
stamps were secured from other of
fices and brought to this city to sup
ply the needs of those who could be
reached with such supplies, for the
sole purpose of diminishing sales here
and defrauding this city out of what,
very likely, would have been her just
right free postal delivery.
The Times has heard two different
reasons advanced as an excuse for
A Regiment
of New Ones
The following new subscribers to
The Times have been received the past
week, which is the kind of commenda-1
tion most satisfying to the manage-,
ment that this papv is meeting with
i n L -t
general approval: opurgcon uivcn oi
Flat River, Thos. Williams of Danville,
111., Ernest McCormick and A. J.
Griffin, Route 1; Roy Turley .Giles
Cunningham, Nace Janice, Preston
Edwards, Emmett Cunningham, Nace
Turley, Bud Harris, Bud Thurman,
Ed Bradley, Joe Bradley, Philip Tho
mure, Chas. Meyers, Thos. Cunning
ham, Jeff Cunningham, Frank Ed
wards, Rns Edwards, W. D. Patterson
and Tony Sutherland of Route 2;
Wm. Porer, J. H. Shannon and Lewis
Powell of Route 3; Arch Agnew, Ma
jor Thurman, John Cook, James Eat
on, Route 4; Fred Murphy, Jerry Mur
phy, Clem Davis, R. C. Stewart, Rus
scl Ryan, Max Freeman, John Ball,
Val McClannahan, M. H. McClintock,
G. B. Perkins, S. R. Resinger, Jesse
Babb, Wm. Hinkle, James McCormick
and Alf Moore of Route 5; Tom Pratt,
Lcc Welker, Henry Gruner and Wm.
A. Watson of Route 6; and Jeff Wil
liams, Joe Ester, James Straughan
and Thos. Hardy.
1280 lbs. of Sons
"Uncle Jimmie" Sutteriield and two
aons. Calvin and J. C, were the guests
of his sons, Allen and Frank here last j
week. There are six brothers in the
Sutterfield family and their combined
weight is 1284 pounds. They average,
214 pounds each. They are also all
in the neighborhood of six feet in ;
height. Their characters measure up
to their weight. All are upright andj
honorable men and respected citizens j
of the different communities in which
they reside. Calvin made his home in
the Lead Belt for several years. Hei
was at one time mayor of Elvins, I
and was known to his intimate friends
as "High Pockets" on account of his,
unusual height. Lead Belt News.
such action on the part of those who
were at the head of this move, if
there was such an effort made. But
either of these reasons is so unreas
onable that we can hardly believe
they are true, and we therefore re
frain from stating them. If these is
any man, or set of men, in this city
who would add the slightest hindrance
to Farmington securing free mail de
livery, for either of the reasons that
have been given us, they must have
very little public spirit.
While The Times feels that Farm
ington has been unfairly dealt with
in this matter, if reports are true,, it
will only delay for awhile the secur
ing of free mail delivery, which will
prove to be a long advance step, one
that would not only be a very great
convenience to the citizenship gen
erally, but would put this city in
even a better light abroad. It would
also mean several salaries added to
the pay-rolls of this community,
something to which no place, howev
er prosperous it may be, would ob
ject. But if the fact can be shown
conclusively that Farmington has
been deprived, even for awhile, of
free mail delivery through the ma
chinations of some of her own citi
zens, then such citizens should be
known, if for no other reason than
that they may be watched hereafter
whenever the best interest of the pub
lic is at stake.
MARRYING JUSTICE" KEPT
BUSY THE PAST WEEK
Pyle Sippy
Harry Pyle of Poplar Bluff and
Miss Bessie Sippy of Elvins were unit
ed in marriage June 28, 1916, Justice
Good officiating. Best man was T. E.
Sippy; brides maid, Mrs. Maud Mus
ell. Mr. Sippy is a brother of the
bride and Mrs. Musell a sister. The
newly-weds left for St. Louis for a
short honey-moon and will return to
519 Park Ave., Poplar Bluff, Mo.
Fink Horn
Mr. Louis H. Fink and Miss Rosene
Horn of Farmington were united in
marriage June 22, 1916, Justice Good
officiating. The groom is the son of
Mrs. Geo. Fink, the bride the daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Horn. Mr.
and Mrs. Fink will make their home
on their farm east of Farmington,
where they will meet many kind
friends as that has always been Mr.
Fink's home.
Meade Maurice
June 24, 1916, Edward Meade and
Miss Rosa Maurice of St. Francois
were united in the bonds of wedlock,
Justice Good uniting the happy couple.
The groom is the son of Mr. und Mrs.
John Meade, und the bride the daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Louis Maurice.
Mr. and Mrs. Meade will make their
home in St. Francois, Mo., where Mr.
Meade has a position with the St.
Louis Smelting & Refining Co.
Horine Reynolds
Aubrey Horine and Miss Violet
Reynolds of Flat River were united in
the holy bonds of wedlock June 26,
1916, Justice Good officiating. The
groom is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Horine and the bride the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Reynolds. Mr. and
Mrs. Horine will make their home in
Flat River, where Mr. Horine has n
position in a dry goods store. The
young couple have many warm friends
throughout the Lead Belt.
Mr. Bradshaw, editor of The Times,
left yesterday with his wife and little
daughter, Alma, for Kirksville, to have
Mrs. Bradshaw examined by Dr. Still,
the famous osteopath, for treatment.
Mrs. Bradshaw has been an invalid
for more than four years, the result of
a stroke of paralysis.
TRULY GREAT ASSET
FOR FARMINGTON
This Community Particularly Fortu
nate in Having Location of the
Schramm Bottling and Ice Co.
The Times editor this week enjoyed
; the privilege of a visit to the Schramm
i Bottling and Ice Manufacturing Co.,
and was also further privileged with
i a trip throughout the plant, under the
pergonal direction of F. W. Schramm,
the genial and accommodating propri
etor, who seemed to take pleasure in
foing into the details of the business,
he writer was most agreeably sur
prised with the magnitude and su
perb equipment of the entire plant,
which is certainly one of the most
perfect in equipment we have ever
seen, for its capacity, which is far
greater than has ever yet been rc-
! quired here.
Mr. Schramm was found in his of
fice, in the bottling department, which
is a very busy place at this season of
the year. This plant has the very
great advantage of being supplied
with abundance of the purest of va-
; tcr, from its own well, which is 400
feet deep. Here is turned out daily
from 100 to 120 cases of carbonated
beverages, of sixteen different flavors,
which is a most delightful drink. Then.
too, it has to recommend it, perfect
; cleanliness and purity. Each bottle is
j thoroughly sterilized before it is filled
with the beverage, and the flavors
! are the best that can be secured. A
! large auto truck was being loaded
with the beverage for the Lead Belt
j while we were there. It is there, Mr.
j Schramm informed us, that his great
I est trade is, several times greater than
his Farmington trade.
We were then conducted across a
court to the ice plant and ice cream
factory. The lattc- has been but re
cently installed, this being its first
season. While the exterior of the
building is not-yet entirely finished,
we found the interior m perfect or-
der, and equipped with the latest im
i proved machinery for the handling of
j cream, before it is frozen, as well as
during the freezing process. There
j are many who question the purity of
I ice cream where made in large quan
tities, and in many instances there
Republican Guber
natorial Candidate
C. 1). Morris, editor of the St. Jo
seph Gazette, who imagines ho is in
the Republican gubernatorial race in
this State, spoke to a small crowd in
the Circuit Court room Tuesday after
noon. Just why the Republicans will
not accord their own speakers a re
spectable hearing it is difficult to
say. Some attribute it to a lack of
confidence in their self-imposed lead
ers, while others say that practically
all of them will vote for President
Wilson and most of the Democratic
ticket, and that "Standpatters" have
become woefully scarce.
However that may be, Mr. Morris
made a very good speech, for a Re
publican. Of course many of his
statements were wholly unreliable,
as, for instance, that "the Democrats
are opposed to a new State Constitu
tion." He failed to state where he
got his information, but it is certain
he did not obtain such dope in this
country. But these little errors were
necessary in order to make the talk
"stand up." Had it not been for them
it would have been a very good Dem
ocratic speech. We deeply regret,
however, to see a good man like Mr.
Morris, and an old newspaper man, too
thus butting his head against a brick
wall. It will be better for him,
though, to go down in the nominating
primary, than to draw the card that
would doom him to lead a forlorn hope.
The True Spirit
The American Smelting and Refin
ing Company, of which the Federal
Lead Company at Flat River is a
branch, has given out that it will hold
the positions open and continue to
pay the wages of all its employes who
belong to the National Guards, which
have been called by the President on
account of the Mexican situation, dur
ing their military service. We are
informed that quite a number of this
company's employes belong to State
Guards in some of the Eastern or
Western States, and this provision, so
generously made for those dependent
upon them while they are away from
home serving their country, will be
a great relief to their minds, and
shows that the spirit of patriotism is
alive in the hecrts of the American
business world. The same provision
has been made by the leading business
concerns of St. Louis and other cities,
many of whose employes are members
of different State guards.
are grounds for such suspicions. But
all such people should make a visit
to Schramm's factory and have every
doubt removed as to its absolute pur
ity. You will be welcome to inspect
the plant and its workings, in every
detail. There is an expert in this de
partment, as there is throughout this
plant, from whom you will be able to
secure many valuable points in the
handling and preparation of cream.
It is first put into a pasteurizer where
it is purified and relieved of any pos
sible geims. It then passes through
several liffercnt processes before the in course of the proceedings that may
finished product is ready for the mar-1 cause the withdrawal of all three of
ket. The machinery in this depart- I your suits, and a suggestion that they
ment is all the latest improved and were not brought in good faith."
most expensive. When we inquired j With just the faint flicker of a
the cost of one of them, we were fore- smile, Mr. Holmes said: "Well, that
ed to step into an adjacent cooling Federal statute isn't worrying any
room to get our breath. body, I guess, unless it is the attor-
un entering tne ice plant, we were
introduced to the engineer, F. L. Brew
cr, who explained in minute manner
the woil.mgH of that department
which seems to be quite complicated
to a noviec. there can be no doubt
remaining, however, in the mind of
anyone who will go through the
Schramm lee Plant with Engineer
Brewer, that that gentleman is thor
oughly conversant with every detail
of that business, and to have him ex
plain the machinery and workings of
the factory is most interesting. The
capacity of this ice plant is ten tons
of crystal pure ice every twenty-four
hours, with a possible production of
13 1-2 tons. But as the Schramm Co.
has ice plants at both Flat River and
Ilonne Terr the normnl output of
this factory has always been sufficient
for every demand. Mr. Brewer has
had many years of experience in ice
plants hi many different Status, ami
he says that this plant is ny tar tne
most complete and modern of any
plant, of similar capacity, that he has
ever seen. It is really a treat to vis
it the Schramm plants in this city,
and yet we suppose there are hun
dreds of residents of this city who
have never been inside of it.
Will Close All Day
On July Fourth
The following merchants of Farm
ington have agreed to close their plac
es all day on Tuesday, July 4th:
Fischer Mercantile Co.
Klein Grocer Company.
Henderson Store Company.
Jacob Helber.
Mell & Phillips.
Boswell & Helber.
J. M. Karsch Shoe Company.
George Herzog & Son.
Morris Brothers. .
Tetley Jewelry Company.
Farmington Mercantile Company.
A. C. Boyd.
And the following barber shops:
Peter Schmidt.
H. Roberts.
E. Beard.
T. Smith.
Without Bond
Chas. Cunningham, a negro boy
about twenty years old, was given a
preliminary hearing Wednesday
morning in 'Squire J. P. Zolmnn'a
court, charged with having ravished
an 8-year-old negro girl named Clara
Taylor. He was committed to jail,
without bail, for trial at the next reg
ular term of circuit court.
The little girl's testimony was di
rect and positive. Sho also identified
the prisoner positively as the party
assaulting her. She said that he came
into her home Saturday night, in her
father's absence, and got in bed with
her, she thinking that it was her
father at that time. An examination
cf the little girl's condiion disclosed
the lact that she had suffered inhuman
treatment. If it is proven that Cun
ningham is the guilty party, then the
most severe punishment provided by
law should be meted out to him.
MISS GALE ELECTED
Y. W. C..A. SECRETARY
Miss Blanche Gale, daughter of Mr.
Geo. B. Gale, received notice last week
that she had been elected Secretary of
the Y. W. C. A. of the Colorado State
University located at Boulder, Co'.o.
Miss Gale left Monday for New York,
where she will take a special nine
weeks training course at the national
headquarters of the Y. W. C. A. be
fore going to Colorado.
Miss Gale is an accomplished young
woman and is especially fitted tem
peramentally for this line of work.
She has already had three years at
the State University at Columbia,
Mo. She will complete her University
course at Boulder. lead Belt News.
ROBERT HOLMES IS
NOT A "QUITTER"
Is Sure He is Right and, Therefore, Like
Davy Crocket, Says He Will "Go
Ahead" to the "Finish"
A representative of The Times met
Mr. Robert Holmes of St. Louis a few
days ago, the man that is causing
some of the managers and board of
directors of the Boe Run Lead Com
pany considerable concern through
the suits he has brought against the
company on several separate grounds.
He casually remarked to Mr. Holmes,
anent the late proceedings in the St.
Francois County Circuit Court, "I see
one of the attorneys of the company
sprung a Federal statute on the court
ney who dug it up. As to the with
drawal of the suits or any lack of
faith in instituting them, that's all
bosh, and they know it."
"Meaning that you intend to push
the suits?"
"Sure. My interests in the manage
On Old Offense
Frank Hill, one of the men who were
sentenced to the penitentiary for life
last week for murder and robbery,
made affidavit connecting Emmett
Moore and Allen Counts with the
hold-up and robbery of Felix Ogle
one night in September, 1915, on the
strength of which Deputy Sheriff
Brown arrested Moore and Counts,
and Prosecuting Attorney Davis has
I filed information charging them with
Highway Voboery. According to
nil I story, he slugged Ogle, and
Moore and Counts tied a handkerchief
over his face, searched and robbed
him of $22, which was divided among
them.
They were released on bond for
their appearance at the next tcim of
the Circuit Court.
Farmers' Picnic
The Unity farmers' picnic at Unity
school house 3 1-2 miles southeast of
Farmington, to be held in the beauti
ful Sehuttlor grove, on the Fourth,
promises to be the biggest and most
interesting entertainment of the en
tire season. An immense crowd is al
ready in anticipation, and the young
folks will have a game of baseball
between 9 and 10 o'clock, and the older
ones will play a game later. Also
sack races and other stunts will bo
pulled off between the big events,
and the Gower Juvenile Band of
Farmington will be on hand and dis
pense the finest of music all day, and
one or two stands will be ready to
serve the people with ice cream, lem
onade, soda water, etc. Then at the
noon hour the baskets and boxes will
be opened and spread around in the
grove in groups, and everyone can
ask his, or her, friends to spread his,
or her, lunches with them, and the
hour will be spent as only the Fourth
of July noon hour should be spent in
America.
At one p. m. the Honorable Fred
Essen of St. Louis will address
the people, and following him Revs.
Burke and Hobbs will have charge of
the speakers' stand and will entertain
the people with their fine songs and
a patriotic lecture by Rev. Mr. Burke.
Come and spend the Fourth with us
in a safe and sane way; bring your
family and come early and bo sure and
bring well-filled baskets, and help us
farmers to make this Fourth of July,
1910, one long to "be remembered.
T. B. CHANDLER.
For the Committee.
P. S.: This invitation is extended
especially to the other Farm Clubs of
St. Francois county, and also to the
friends over the line in St. Genevieve
county. T. B. C.
Sons of Veterans
Several members of the former lo
cal camp Sons of Veterans G. A. R
met last Monday night and considered
a plan to reorganize the camp. Only
a few were present, but. we under
stand that at this time about sixteen
have signified their intention of join
ing. No date has been set for another
meeting to perfect the organization.
At the meeting last Monday night
a committee consising of Ab. Mullin.
Thomas Lang, Albert Wulfert and
Wm. Good was appointed to pay n
onsoiatory visit to 'Squire L. J. Cun
diff, a veteran G. A. R., who is con
fined to his home with blindness, and
present him a box of good cigars
with which to console himself in his
lonely hours.
ment of the companies arc considera
ble, otherwise why should I bother
myself about them? My interests
naturally lie in a smooth, honest and
business-like management; the less
friction the better for all concerned.
But these suits were brought in good
faith to remedy, if possible, mistakes
and the results of bad management,
to protect not only my own interests
but those of other stockholders who
have not he opportunity of knowing
about the company's affairs as I do.
It doesn't look reasonable, does it,
that I would be spending so much of
my time with these suits, employing
the best legal talent that I can procure
at no little outlay, and putting myself
to no little inconvenience if I were not
convinced that the end will justify the
means, and that certain wrongs ex
ist that should and must be rectified?
No, I'm not engaged in any pastime;
I have other ways of amusing myself
when I have time."
The impression created by his talk
was that he was sure he was right
und like Davy Crocket, intended "to
go ahead."
Great Revival
Spirit Manifest
Capacity crowds have been filling
the big tabernacle nearly every night,
and on several evenings there Was not
seating room for many who came af
ter the services had begun.
Rev. Burke is delivering some mas
terful sermons with punch and power,
that are making the people sit up and
take notice. .Tat' iieopk or Farming
ton cannot afford to miss this oppor
tunity for inspiration and help as well
as entertainment.
The music under Prof. Loes is prov
ing very helpful. The large choir und
the special renditions every evening
are making the services exceedingly
enjoyable. Many voice the praise of
Mr. Loes' fervent and soul-stirring
solos.
About the most energstic and cor
dial person on the revival campus is
Rev. Hobbs. He ha.5 a smile that
doesn't rub off. He is everybody's
friend and always on the job with a
suggestion and a lift heavenward.
A special meeting was held at the
Tabernacle Tuesday afternoon at 2:30.
Mr. Hobbs had charge of the service
and made an inspiring appeal to the
lirge number of women present. He
said In part: "There are enough peo
ple here this afternoon to win the
whole county for Christ. This town
and community will not be brought to
the Saviour by Steve Burke's sermons
alone, but your individual efforts will
cause the hearts of the unsaved to
acclaim Christ the King of Kings."
"Personal work is the method by
which this battle will end with us on
the winning side," he continued.
"What are you women doing for
Christ and the church? I wish every
husband in Farmington cbuld say,
'My wife has religion, all right; she
is surely saved'."
The Women's Gospel Team was or
ganized. This is a representative
body who will lead in canvassing and
conquering the field of labor.
The officers elected were the fol
lowing: Pres., Mrs. Frank Doss; Vice
Pres., Mrs. Ed Helber; Sec, Mrs. O.
J. Mayberry.
Those who were chosen as captains
of the four wards were: 1st ward, Mrs.
Ed Helber (temporary); 2nd ward,
Mrs. C. A. Jones and Mrs. Judge
Clay; 3rd ward, Mrs. Ed Henderson;
4th ward, Msr. Hugh Mitchell.
This aggregation of women, ladies
of Farmington, are your leaders.
Rally to their support.
Short prayer meetings are being
held in different homes in the after
noon throughout the entire city. The
initial gatherings of this nature were
at the homes of the captains of each
ward, thereafter in various places.
These times of prayer and prepara
tion take place on four days of each
week, viz., Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday.
THEY "FANNED" ALL RIGHT
BUT FARMINGTON LOST
Last Sunday morning a little over
a hundred Farmington baseball "fans"
boarded a special train of the Houck
railroad with our base ball nine for
Perryville, where the Utter pulled off
a game with the Perryville sports of
the diamond. It was a good game and
the crowd had a good time, but Farm
ington lost by a score of 7 to 4.
Mrs. Joseph Good and daughters,
Mrs. Geo. Armstrong and Mrs. Geo.
Staley, of St. Louis, arrived in Farm
ington Thursday to spend a few days
with Justice Good and family.
