lire
ill (fmmiii
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1916.
NUMBER 9.
lit-tnrmher C'arrlnl.
Although the report are not yet
accented liy the government n fully
conclusive, the evidence sterna t bj
iu(llclent to Justify the conviction that
the nlTnir of Cnrrfzal was nothing less
than an atrocious massacre. Two
troops 0 the Tenth Cavalry, number
ing nearly a hundreil men, were sur
rounded ly on overwhelming force
under circumstance of the utmost
duplicity mid treachery, and deliber
ately destroyed. Only twenty-sevrn
men are knwn to have escaped death
nr Imprisonment. The Americans arc
reported to have fought with the ut
most btavcry, but there was no po.
slbllty of victory or of succor. They
were Riven no warning of attack; they
were given no opportunity to m ren
der. They would, no doubt, have re
fused to surrender, but even the
chance was denied them. The time
occupied by a conference between the
commanding officer was used to ex
tend the lines of the Mt-xfrnn furrri
tpon both Hanks of the little band of
Americans, and nt the conclusion of
the parley, lire was opened with ma
chine guns and rifles. No one knows
yet now many were killed. No one
yet knows how manv wounilnl wn
left to die In the desert. Twenty-four
urc rcponcit iy me .Mexican to have
been captuied and taken to Chihua
hua there to be spit upon by the popu
lace. The rest is sllrnrp.
And now what are we to do? Wash
Ington dispatches state that our gov
eminent will probably mnke demand
that the hutcherv nt Cnrrlml. nn.l 11..,
ciually tieacheious and dishonorable
attack at Mnzatlan, "be disavowed."
ino .Mexican rorces were regularly
enrolled forces, under the command
of n rorngnlred ircncrnl of Ihi. I'm-.
ranra administration. Ale we to "ne
gotiate over such n matter a 'hi
Ale we to accept the nssiirur of
Carrnn7.li, If ottered, ami smlli lit tlm
ernir of the poor, benighted Mcxl
inn? Ur shall we iiriuni n luini
eommisslon for the Investigation of
III.. Mt.U.uU C I.. l 1. .... ..
iiifi,v. .uit-i .nvn- is no iruc
American wnoso piooii i(,os net lioil
With Indhrnnf Inn nt llm innm .nt
tfoll of IIIIV litlier lull inn Hum Imiii...
Hate and complete reparation. This
Is no time for (xrhange of felicltiou
communication. This is no time for
tne punctilious courtesies of diploma
cy. This Is no time fur iti:nl Ini- nnd
analyzing the dmp of blood shed at
vurnzai. it is n time Tor action. !t
. Is time for tl.e mulled II. 1. Ii I. iim
for a blow thut will eoiunel Mi-xii-u In
remember Cnirlzal ns we remember
An Important Kuling.
Judge Finnk I'. Dlvrlbis. of the
Clay county circuit couit, lias Just
handed down cn unusually Important
in 111111 m connection Willi tne Wclili.
Kenyun law prohibiting the delivery
of intoxicating II.IUUIK into "ilrv" l.r.
ritory in the course of interstate com
mcice. As this is the llrst time this
law has been construed by a Missouri
coun, ine decision win lie or unusual
legal prominence and will serve ns a
precedent, at least until levlewed by
11 higher court. It was oniiiintnl hi-
the application of the prosecuting at
torney of Clay county for an injunc-
nun ngainsi 1110 imciigo, .MiiwauKcc
A: St. 1'nul railroad rcslruinlni- It
from delivering intoxicating ll.tuor
to nny person in Clay county, u local
option territory. Tlie Injunction was
denied and the gist of the decision Is
contninctl 111 the following closing par
ngroiihs:
It In allegeil that the defendants,
ineir agents anil employes, are know'
ingly and willingly delivering Intnx
irating lliUors In the local option ills
trlcts of this county to known boot
loggers and keepeis of blind tigers
and other disreputable places, well
knowing tlm unlawful purposes to
which such liquors are to be nut. If
such be the fact, then 1 would say to
the state: "Stretch forth thine hand;
lay hold of these alleged bootleggers
on wheel! arraign them ut the bar of
justice; try, convict anil punish them
as any other violater of the law and
an neeii ror injunctive relier will im
mediately disappear.
"That such course would be efllca
clous and abate the unlawful practices
herein complained of, Is well attested
by the fact that the mere Indictment
or the receiver or the Wabash Kali
road Comnanv nut an mil to the 11
legal sale of liquors on its dining cars
and brought forth a solemn written
promise by tho heads of that great
railway system to the Judge of this
court that never again should intox
icating liquor be dispensed on their
dining cars in this btate so long as
grass grows and water runs. Viewed
front any angle, it appears that the
prayer for Injunction ought to be and
is heretofore denied and the plaintiff'
mil is uismisscu.
Heal Preparedness.
President's Wilson's coll to the
nation's in I t a was Issued ate Sun'
day June 18. l.ato Monday evening,
Captain Carter, of Company L. 4th
Iteglmcnt, received ordcra to "line up"
his men nnd bo ready to niovo his
men to Nevada. Wednesday evening
thu orders were received, and on
litursday, Juno 'JU, Cnpt. Carter en
trained Ids company for Nevada.
Thero wero no contingencies, no
"ifs," no ilehiys, no hindcranclcs. Tho
company was ready; not 11 ronkio or
an oiiiccr fallen to rovpoml. Hero is
a splendid cxnmnlo of nrcnarcdncss.
und Cnpt. Carter and his ofllccrs, as
wen as iiij men, aro to bo congrntu
Will Orclncr, wife and two
daughters. Miss Rubv and Miss Lo
ona, of Cook, Nebraska, were hero for
a few nays, tins week, .the guests or
relative.
Will Commence Paving Soon.
W. .Inlrks, of the A. Jnlcks Paving
.0., or Kansas city, who hnve thu
contrnct for the nsphaltum-roncrotc
streets, around the s.tunre nnd con
necting streets, wns in town, Tuesday
of this week, looking over the ground.
preparatory to commencing work In a
lew nays, ran or their machinery,
etc., Is nlrendy here. While here hn
also conti acted with Curtis Whltmcr
for all of the crushed rock that he
could supply. Mr. Jalcks says they
nave lieen rather hnniltriippeil sinca
tho Mexican trouble has assumed such
a serious aspect four of their best
men irom their oiiire nelng members!
of the N. (i. M., nnd weie called '.o
Nevada, lihinehart Ill-others I'avinir
Company, of St. Joseph, nie getting
along line Willi their work, nnd have
the curbing in on Washington Street
nearly to the depot.
The lid flew u!I the Mohan situation when the president Issued !i rail for the entire nntlmi.il gunrd of the nation lo mot. Hire for
tint) on the bolder. Oicr men were nflo-lcd by the order. The dispatch of n note to t'nrriinzn followed, wld.li set forth
the right ot the L'ldted Wales to keep t lie nrniy ut.tcr Pershing In Mexico, lunsmucli ns Cnrrntira wns tumble lo protect tlie live
of our citizen. The climax had been hnstclicd by Ccncnil Trvilno surrounding the l'ldted Slnlex ln nnd ordering 1,'eiiernl
Pershing to move no further. Moblllznllon of the inllllla itmlliiued rapidly. I'uhliitf forward, the llussbitu enptureil Czernowliz. the str-uiiihold the .ntrl.iin
look hit jenr. Lenit-crg wn then threMlened bj the czitr As 11 mieur lo Wlllln tu I'. McOniln the president rluw Value C McCormlck. former major
of llnrrl-diiirg. I 'a.. u- ebulrinnu or the Dcltiocriillc luillouul couiniltlce
News Snapshots
Of the Week
I'innk (ileen Is home from the Cnttnlv School Nnle.
I'hlHIcolh.' It'lsiness College to enjoy --, (ntrtnlnintnt given nt Foltoscue
11 inter vacation wnn 111s ninuicr ..ir. rr ti. ,(.nrnt or the "pinno rund
Allll rtll llri-l'll.MlirtlllV. Inn. n .1.1.1,1 Kiifi-m. In Vi-IA- nni-.
- Ir. I". I". Iiovnti nnd wife, of Irulnr. Mr. John Slater, president of
lllgelin", wye in (liegon, Sunday Inst. , tlm school Uinid of ConMitidntiil Ois-
the guests id . Hither, Ur. .1. I 1 net. .mi. .1, pivsniiu m ills unni suave,
ll.iirn.i ntnl t ffr. nf tl-U rltv. ' llllf llitilil IMnillHT. TIliW I'tUt Iclfnt
" ' f .. . 11.. it 1 1...-
Ilr. Sherman II. Iliblnrd and , '' "l"'" ".
Ilr. Sherman 11. lliiiinin ami ii i.i. .... 1
wife, of K'ansns Clt. wen- line nv.-r "V1. "''"'I mii '. f I . .
S.m.hn. the guests of Mrs. Illl.bnhl'- Mr'l.,n:1 "'Aj 1
patents C. I. Zo.dc nnd wife. , X,' ,.,n"i " M,' l,l",,c',.,T,"f
1 " , . ' . , , , i Oregon; Miss Muggs Mlnton and the
lllghwa) lmproement. The .Mtthmll.- Itlnl.
The following work on the high- Three weeks have rome and gon
ways of the county was repotted by since these meetings began and t
County Highway Engineer I'eret ns membership of the chinch has Ix-ro
being finished Inst week: The .".fi.foot grently b.nelitte.1. and the result-
timber biidge nt the lliirr OnK school nave neen enjoni ny mnny in w
house, -I miles northwest -of I'or.-'t other rhui-ehes as well.
City, where overllow water from the Sunday wns a throng day. Thlrt
Squaw Creek ditch cut acins the two people ntteniUd pioer mcetliii'
county rund in emptying Into the nt fi o'clock In the motnlng. 11 sple
Missouri lilver; the Jl-foot timber did congregation gireted Mrs. Cri 1
liildge. nt the Mrs. Lena Cordon farm, at the morning s.-rivre. following tl
thre.-fouilhs of n mile northwest of huii.lu) school, willi nn attendance
l-orrst City wheie overllow wnter 1M. An old rnslilonnl love renst w.i
hum Klmsey (Vok nnd Squaw Creek held nt :i p. 111., which wns well te
dlteli crosses the rond: the concrete tended und n s.nson of great benefit.
wnlls nnd dirt till, nt the John .Mnrkt find nt night the house would not i.r
fnrm. l'j miles enst of Oregon; the commodate
south nnnrnarh of the John Turnev time
briih'c. over Klmsey Creek. 'Jt miles moi-nlni'
nn-ihwest of IVrent City, which was large number of person-, who have '"ce, n'i-1 sister-, 1.111111a mid .ittr. . j ,lp ,Kll,Ill t,.,,H. As tin- high
taken o-1 by the Hood of last Thuw- J professed, conversion, reclamation nr' Hob Knenle Increased Ids exrheq school building of n mini rons.dldat.sl
day night. the experience of snnctlllcntlon. Jtulr tier, Thursday Inst, lust $lK"..IO sclnhd, it hns not super' .ir In tin;
lli M's. Anim Srhee'e rulvert, one-1 "I '' ,ll testimonies giveu on Su-i- mini the snle or ..i. limit id hog, istnte. - - s - tiT''
Im.f mil,. .',. .if f..,tM. ta l.Alnr day. not less than TO all told, nl- which he sold to Will Derr at $'.i..M. II,.. ii-neheM Vlllil llflVit 1iiil Hitivt
MimpUtnl hU kku by the tUrt-llll though mi irconlj of nun1cii Imvo mt 100. tM tuiln duty In tliU ImlMfni; for Ihi
I'innk Itnrger has letmn.-.! fiot-i :"..','' ' ,..V".
. ....1. ..I..... I " '
...l.l ,,,.'., nn.l .. n,n ..In, I In .Int.. CoUSolldnle.1 Histlift. Nil. II, linS
. ' ..rami ..nil.,, 1.1 Im nr.tii.l nr li,.r (inu
thin lie is now mum improvni. , ...V
lal night the house would not l.r ' ... ,. , . . lilgli selmol building. l.nM week
iimiMlnle the crowd. Cp to tl.. , . " Allcij nsl.ey and her two S ,0 vju).vi it,tctil rit tinss came all
e id this writing Wc.lncs.hi, nt. ierting little ones me here imJov. , 'from .Ii-lTers.ui Hty to np.
rnlng) there hnve been quite n 11 v1' 1 ,w.1,h M", (,V "' prove It. He expiess.-.! his npptov.il
U'e iiumiIht of person who Imvc , 1 ' l'' fi'Hl'- (l0 ,K.i t,-ims. As the high
N
The Ititin-t nrni.
On the night of June J:!d -nn un
usually heavy rain fell all o(er the
county, infl ctlng nuc'.i d mng;, c p c
inny in nn- iiottom s.-ctions or our
county. At this station the rainfall
measured '.'.CO inches. At Mound City
it was 'J'l inches. The wnter from
Miury took out some of the tall
mad track south of the Klmsey
bridge, ut the t'itzmnurlce plr.ic, and
the water was over the plntrnrm nt
the Forest City depot. Owing to tho
trnck damage nenr Skl.lmore, the VII-
nsca train was nlianilun.il, nnd tho
main line trnlns were out of schedule
time several hours.
I he total rainfall tin to this date.
June Jllth. is .V.'o Inches. In June.
I'.'ir.. we had O.T'i Inches, nnd tlie
heaviest L'l-liour rainfnll was '.'.10 on
the ITlli.
'n-l-.' put in.
1 been kent.
'Hie ru'u of 'nt Thursday night . hl11'''"!,. I'let-tlngs w;crc held M.m
vM mt tie Win. Catnn brldco on,,n' ,"nd T "culav nights, and thu
Squaw Creek ditch, nij miles west of meetings fnim that time on will be
.houii.i t.uv: 1 no .--icmi nri.ige at
Mineral .Spiings. east of Mound Citv,
which Is now being built by J. f).
Thompson; the lluetzer bridge, T
tulles northwest or Mound City; nnd
the ends nnd uiinroarhes of si-vernl
other bridges In the county. The legs
of the steel luldge, at the Kd Catdccl
farm, over Klmsey Creek, .1 miles
northeast of Forest City, were nearly
washed out.
J. I). Thompson has completed the
announced from night to night, but
win nose Mimiay night at the latest.
All aie uige.l to make the most of
the opportunltlles while they 1.1st.
J W. ANDKII.SON. l'a.tor.
Sim let).
Mr. and Mrs. I'led C. Phllhrirk en
tertained with n (I o'clock dinner.
Thursday evening of Inst week. In
compliment to Air. and Mrs. W. l
M V..II..... ....I ....... .1..
KErVffi nt.,h? .'"'''i'alilng 'cidoVs ' C. ;'wVrV la d
rnrm, miles eust of Mound City. , rr i(n
r.. r.. Williams is putting In con
crete walls nt the W. I). Dunnlhoo cul
vert. .'I miles ninth of Crnlg. He will
begin work next on the Win. Nnumun
culvert, fi'-, miles noithenst of Craig.
..eo. iiurgers worn on the Kd Sliull
concrete eulve't. Yt miles soutliea't
of Mound Cl'.y, Is progiessing nicely.
The Count Knglneer's pile driver
ciew Is building a -10-foot bridge nt
.1... U- I 1,1-1 1 .... . .
...v.- ... 1.. tiiiiunison iiirm, inree-
fourths of a mile southwest nf .'nrriit
City, this week. From thero he will
move the crew to tlie Walter Meyer
farm, II miles northeast of Forest
City, and from there tn ih will
Trimmer and Squire Smith bridges.
j. 11. iiiompson nns moved his crew
to the (illllland work, 4?i miles north
west of Maltlund.
Fred Hurst has the Job of filling
over the Mart Moody culvert 4 miles
northwest of Multland.
The west end of the big steel bridge
at the Wellman farm, 4 miles south
west of Crnlg, has been cut in again
by Dig Tarkio Dralnacc illtrh. Thn
county has already added two aprons
iu wo m rnu 01 mis riridgc, and It
now appears that unless something Is
done to stop the cutting of the ditch
that it will bo impossible to maintain
n bridge there.
Keeping Up the Iteputation.
That's a trrcnt hunch nf kMtlwi
Petree children. When any thing is
doing In tho "Jam-up" line, it seems
so easy for some one of them to get
theirs, and ns a general rulo th.-y
don't mnke inurli noise about it cither
they Just tell pa to call a doctor
to bring out some sheet tin nnd somo
lumber to make Into "splints." When
much younger than now, Miss I.ou
had one of her limbs broken; Jay hns
had his leg and arm broken and whllo
Chnrley some time ago hud his collar
bone broken, ho concluded things were
growing n little monotomous nbout
nome, so he Just had his arm broken,
Monday of this week, wldln rilrll,,,.
cherries nt the Ifev. Anderson re
deuce. Ho Just fell out of tho treo
nsteuil of going down the ladder, lie
insists that it is l.eo's turn now.
Mr. nn.l Mrs. W. W. Dawson .titer
tallied a few friends with n ln.n!c
party, complimentary to Mr. and Mrr.
Will Moore. The guests spent tne
evening in the Schlotzhniier grove,
near town, and finlshd! tlie cwnlng
witli nn iiuto ilile.
Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Phllhrirk eider
tniii.il a few relatives nt ihnnei-.
Tuesday, the occasion being the wed
ding annlversnry or hcrscir, her moth
er, Mr, (i. II. Price and her -tor,
.Mrs. II. W. Caskey, of St. Joseph. In
the evening tlie guests were inv'tc-l
to Mrs. Price's home nnd upon 1. ach
ing there were greeted by a few rela
tives and intimate friends, who had
planned n surprise for Mrs. V;rv
r.cjunt refreshments wero serve I
Miss Virginia Nrtherland pi.sld
ed at the piano, nt the lloyal, Monday
night, for the play, "The Trail of tho
Lonesome Pine."
James Donovan, of St. Joseph, Ii
hero enjoying a visit with his daugh
ter, Mrs. Scott llodgln, and that dear
bunch of grandchildren.
-Mrs. Mnre ('. Sremnn, Mis. I'ted coming year nie: Mr. T. D. C.lnre,
Welzell nml Mis Lillian and ..s high school; Miss Slilnur, gmmmnr;
I'loience Scht.Uo i. tuined Inst Satin-iMIss Tracy lllevlns, Intermediate;
day evening fiom n visit with iciu-, M. lielen Thatcher, pilmnry. '
lives in St. Joseph. I The 1 epulis sent In by the district
-Mr. and Mr. W. T. Wise, of St. cU , "'""X "l",'. n,v
Joseph, accompanied by Mrs. William r!,,m, ".' f ',' ;n,(!',11' i1"'1"!';"
Dorsel. of the same city, niv visiting T.'t ,"f, J'Ti I"!;.';1 of
here, the guests of their daughter, n"'1 -'.n . T1"" UTif"Sj
Mrs. Itobcrt Noellsch. VV T' ' ',,I1,,I'J,' ,n ,,0? ,"" H
,, , ,, , , .. nil living in Oiegon, witli tlie excep-
-Mrs. A. D. Piper, of Knnfos C ity, I ,,m ,lf ,. K,u in nVes in Forest
Is bete enjoying a visit with her p ...
'Svl,,rBm!SlI,r,,!i tn!lVai!nf;,'!y A'wMl-lil lllrhard,on. of the Mary
1", ,' , "! '.hL L, ''"I'l-y ville Normal, sends me the following
whei evei (iinndma comes. lnnmfl4 f ,,.m.. ,eK cnl0,,
llnlph Moore, wife nnd little from Holt county for the summer
daughter. Mildred, left Monday of this trmi In the Normal: Flora Andes,
we k for tnllfomin. where they will IMvern llerlrani, Kmmu llertrnm. Trn-
visit witli relatives and friends until ey lllevlns. Kate llrodbeck, Mnyine
some lime In October, next. Hlurks, lli-itlm Cliampliii. (ilndys
Miss Kutli fio.Ntspeed. of Mound Cllswell, Vulle Deglow, Mary Dunnl-
City, and Mr. Cuy Itent, of Mnryville, boo, Mury Kllen Filzmiiurire. William
were married In Crnlg, Monday, June II. Cillls, Mnynte (iieene, Hel.-n Hus-
by llev. II. F. Cooli'V, pai-tor of ton. May Huston. Adeline Jamison,
the M, I., church, of that city, ! Anne u. Mtizle, Kuthrvn .vlrhee, ,M
An llniojnlili- Met,
The ini-mliers nf .Mejer Post hnd a
most enjoyable meeting nt the home
of th. Ir rnmrnile Dnnli'l Ktmkcl, Sr.,
on Saturday nftentoon Inst, June -J4.
The home wns nicely d.-tointed for
the occasion, nnd of the "old boys"
nnsweted loll call. Mr. nnd Ml.
Kutikel nr.- a Jolly and cot.llul pair,
und tln-y made the visit of the mem
bers of the post n most enjoyable one,
nnd one thnt will nut soon be forgotten.
I he Post transacted its legulnr
business, and weie then sente.1 at
tables and weie seive.1 with 11 most
delicious two-rouisc luncheon by Mrs.
Kunkel, who wit- ginrlousiy assisted
by Mrs. Amanda Dungnn, Mrs. F. S.
ifnsiorK, Airs. 110. kuiikci nun .mi
and
null Mendows, lloitense I- Morris.
i...i 1 ....1 ..ir..
.1MI'W1 .ll ni.llMI I.IMI ,ll llllll ,,, ... ,,, . , .. . .,
little son. Cuy. nre hete for a cou.de , .f r,l:.,1,.',lit' 1 nr,k' , M!1 V'
of weeks' visit with their parent, r. ' r" V ;'.,M" V"?""; la,, ,w illlu"""
F. I' Mn.kli.n.l. wir.. nn.l rm.ille. nn.l . ".'."" Mllinll' elllT.
W. A. S. Derr, wife nn.l family. j
1 he many mends or II. J. Small
woihI, wit.) has been confined to his
home for three months, with a broken
hip, were more than glad to see him
AI.IIF.KTA (illKF.N'.MUIIPIIY.
County Superintendent.
i
Siindu) School Con l td Ion.
mi., urn- iiiwit- 111,111 kiuii it, ri'i' 111111 ' ,., 1 . . .
on the st.eets, Sntunlay of last week. I, , '" ' r'' V'r0 l'r"0,r,ln,,1 "r,
,. ,, .. . ' . . , the Forbes lownshlp Sunday School
-Al McNulty returned home from cl)llV(.tl,,ti, which was held at the
Itochester, .Minnesota, Monday of la..t ( jionnifli school house, Sunday. Juno
week, following on operation. He bur-, Thl.l0 wni( Kran,, 00'd time
rled home to see hs son leave for mn t1P htart to the finish.
Nevada, as a member of Company I., , .-ilt ,, til0 nntBnm ns itl.v. ,:,..
-tin regiment. .tl in iIh ,,,H.inK n.ldrws. with the
Miss Virginia Netlterlan.l enter-, Minday school as u missionary, as a
tained "Thn Wags," with Miss Klslo , "sm'
Ceil, of Omaha, and Miss Mnrker, nf
Denver on lliorsday afternoon of la-it
week. The girls nut in the time, tat
ting, vocal and Instrumental music,
nn.l n dainty lunch followed.
F .
I A Proclamation
Wii
Next wns the big eat.
After order was restored, Mrs,
Fitzmauriro lectured to the parents
specially, telling them that they wero
the builders of the nation's future.
I lev. Nichols told uh what use tho
pastor is to the Suiplay school, and
also how he could become a detriment,
und he told It well.
I'innk Sahlln guve us his views on
how to get and keep the boys nnd
made us believe liu was right nbout it.
.Miss Josephine Murray showed us
Concrete Walls Collapsed,
Tho side walls of tho concrcto cul
vert at tho I.nndon Thompson farm, II
miles northeast of Mound City, built
in 1911, liavo collapsed, and a tempor
ary bridge has been placed there to
accommodato the moil carrier.
0. v. Cummins is modernizing
his already handsome home. Mechan
ics are at work putting In furnace,
toilet, bath, etc.
Whereas, our city hn.
ma.lti nu ariangements for
the celebration of our Nn
tlonnl Independence, Jul)
U 4th, chiefly because of the
expectation thnt tho stied
K pnvlng wiiul'd bo well undci
g course pf construction nt
P! tlie time and
& Whereas, recent Intel national events of gi nve character in
Ki volving the Invasion of nut country nnd the murder of our cltl
J zens, It is well ut this time lo review the pnst, nnd npply Its les
H sons dispassionately, but courageously; candidly, but with vigor
gi and patriotism. To this end, thcrcfoie, I urge nnd request thnt
; all citizens display the National Calms cnnplrunusly about their
v homes and places of business on Tuesday, July 4th, and whether
BJ wo celebrato witli our neluhborlnir cities nr remain nuictly at
home, let us again resolve that the old Hag shall forever wavo us
tho symbol of freedom nnd order, not only along the Itio Grande,
but wherever American citirens do it homage.
CiKO. It. MUltltAY, Mayor.
Ki now 111 iianuie me nine lots anil Kiel
?' them interested.
Mrs. l-itzmnurlce tlieu gave us a
splendid talk on keeping the boys and
girls from doing bud things, by keep
ing them busy at good things.
Ofllccrs elected for the ensuing year
weie: I,. It. Cunningham, piesldent;
Miss Jennie Metculf, vico-piesfcicntj
David Allen, secretniy,
Tlie songs w sang were tho old-stand-bys
thnt everybody knows.
llev. (inrrett concluded the niouram
with a short talk.
Alter One Year,
After being confined to her homo
for n year, fiom tin- cir.-cts of severe
burns receiv.il June IM ipift, Mr..
Floyd Hughes, of the Culp distiiet.
was able to visit at tlie home of F.!
N'nrnti and wife. Sunday last, in
roinpiiny with her husband and ninth-erdn-law
Mr. Tom Hughes. She has
to use a wheeled chair in getting
nr.mud, but is now Improving, and it
is hoped by her many ft lends that
she will soon be nble to get mound
without the Use of n chair. .
W. M. Collin D. n.l.
In our Issue of June HI, HUii, wo
published the account of n solium
accident, which befell a former tors
innii. Worthy M. Collin, in the Had
Lands, nenr Coring. Neb., June I, In
which Mr. Collin's bark wns broken,
mid very small hopes weie enteitaln.il
for his recovery. Tuesday evening nf
tills week, June he died. He leave
11 wife and live children. We have
110 fin titer pnttirulnrs at hand, but
hope for an obituary next wec't.
W.
to
LxiunsUe Trip.
Oscar Hill, of Forest City, Isn't
much of llnnncler. Tho faro front
Forest City to St. Joseph Is only f.8
cents. . Osrnr Jumped on a locomotive,
Saturday night lust, and got a frco
ride, but when ho got oir at tho Fran
cis street depot, he was nicked up by
a railroad detective. Sheriff Gclvin
went after him, brought him back,
and on Monday, Justice Wilson said
to him, "$5 nnd costs," which meant
Oscar paid $14.10 for tho ride, Instead
of buying a ticket from Ed Boyd for
58 cents.
(iilcs Cooper has teturned from
Coloindo, wheie he passed the pa.l
winter,
Nev. Dickson, wife and family
visited In Oregon nnd vicinity lat
Saturday and Sunday, with relatives
and fi lends.
We are sorr) to hear thnt Will
Tillery who has been with the Keeves
lliugg Auto Company will leave with
Ids wife, some time this week, for
lloulder, Colorado. The couple tnailo
many friends while here.
Tho many friends of K. W. Head
ley nnd Nathan Smith weie glad in
d.ed to sec them in town Inst Satur
day. They have both been very
feeble for mnny months. Ilfing vet
einns, they uttende.l the meeting of
Mo) or Post.
M. II. Ilayhlll, a former resident
of n.nr New Point, but who hus been
living In Ontario. California for sev-
eiul years, has our slnrerest thanks
for 11 box of fine oranges, rnised liy
him on his fruit farm. They were
certainly line.
--.lames llrohnn conductor on the
(Steal Western railway, witli head
quarters at Conception, Mo., and Des
.monies, iowii, was here ror a rcw
days, thu week, the guest of his par
ents, Hugh lltolian. wife and family,
of the Mayflower district.
Among those who attended "Tho
Little Minister." nt tho Lyceum. In St.
Joseph, Friday evening of Inst week,
were: Jir. and idrs. tiuy i cummins.
Mr. and Mrs. It. (S. Iiulcy, Mr. nml
.Mrs. Howard S. Tcure, Dr. II. II.
Allen, HurIi Pcunol nnd Jnmci o
stock, James Colhour, whilu agisting In
setting a light pole, Tuesday of this
week, met with un accident that camo
close to getting Ijki riffit eye. Tho
pole in being put m, place swung over
and broke an insular on another pole,
a part of It striking Jim on the right
cheek In its fall, and cutting quito a
gash. Dr. J, F, Chandler at once' fix
ed him up, and he Is now all right.
