3
VOL. XX NO. 91.
BARRE, VERMONT, . FRIDAY', JUNE 30, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CEXT.
THE BARM
DAI
LY
TIMES
TROOPS HURRY
TOWARD BORDER
TO MEET CRISIS
Carranza Is Reported in Pri
vate Advices to Be Dis
posed to Stand by His Or
der to General Trevino to
Attack American Troops
Moving Any Way but
North
HE WILL BE ALLOWED
ONLY SHORT TIME
Four Villa Bandits Who
Took Part in Columbus,
N. M., Raid Were Hanged
at the County Jail in Dem-
ing, N. M., To-day, Having
Been Convicted in Trial
Washington, D. C, June 30. Private
advices say that Carranza is determined
to stand by his orders to General Trevino
to attack American troops moving in any
direction but to the north and that no
way is seen to avoid a break with the
United States.. A faction of the Mexican
cabinet is said to be urging an even more
defiant attitude.
No reply has been received from Car
ranza to the American note demanding a
statement of his position as regards
American troops -on Mexican soil. There
are indications here that the administra
tion might welcome a delay of a few
days before Carranza replies, as this
would permit the concentration of the
troops and supplies now moving toward
the border.
QUARTET OF VILLA
BANDITS HANGED
the Mormon scout,1 who guided Captain
Charles T. Boyd and his detachment over
the trail that led to the (arrival en
counter. Spillsbury spent the night at
the 'home of his brother here. The troop
ers were quartered at Fort Bliss, await
ing orders. from fieneral Funston at San
Antonio.
Two stories, differing widely, were told
by the men. One told bv Spillsburv 'ip
holds statements he was credited with
making at Chihuahua City, charging Cap
tain Boyd with obstinacy in advancing
in the face of a certain Mexican attack.
The other, narrated by men of the Tenth.
blames the Mexicans for the ensuing
fight.
Private William D. Gibson asserted
that after the Americans had quit the
field, the Mexicans went over it and
killed several Americans who were
wounded. Gibson's assertion was cor
roborated by Privates Archie Jones and
Luther Alexander. Others of the troop
ers claimed they had been robbed of mon
ey and valuables following their cap
ture. The arrival of Spillsbury and the ne
gro troopers at the border yesterday
caused thousands to gather n Juarez
and El Paso to witness the event. In
Juarez a big crowd at the Mexican Cen
tral railroad station viewed the disem
barking of the prisoners from their
train, but gave little outward evidence
of enmity. As they marched from the
station to the disinfecting plant from
that point to the comandacia and finally
to the international bridge, there were oc
casional jeers.
Once the crowd showed good humor.
That was when the troopers descended
from the train. Stripped of their uni
forms after the battle of Carrizal and
with restoration only partly made, the
negro soldiers were arrayed in motley
garb and their appearance provoked
laughter.
FRENCH
BURiED
BYSHELL
But Their Supporting Col
umn by Brilliant Counter
Charge Recaptured Im
portant Fortified Work in
First Line Trenches East
of Hill 301, According to a
Paris Report
POWERFUL ATTACK
WEST OF HILL FAILED
French Official Statement
Says the Germans Sus
tained Heavy Losses Ac
tivity Reported on West
ern Front from Nieuport
to the Aisne Austrians in
Retreat
NO MORE USE FOR
PROGRESSIVE PARTY
Dr. H. Nelson Jackson, State Commit
teeman, Will Close State Headquar
ters in Burlington and Devote
His Time to Personal
Business.
Burlington, June 30. On his return
yesterday from Chicago, where he at-
Al DEMIG, N. 31. 1 gressive committee when Roosevelt's let
ter declining the party nomination lor
president was read, Dr. H. Nelson Jack
son, state committeeman from Vermont,
said there is no further need for the
Progressive party. The office of the state
headquarters on Church street in this
city will be closed, and Dr. Jackson said
he would devote his time henceforth to
his personal duties.
Four Men Were Convicted of Participa
tion in the Murder Raid on Colum
bus, If. M, Months
Ago.
Deming, N. M June 30. Four Villa
bandits who took part in the Columbus
raid were hanged here to-day at the
county jail. The men were put to death
in pairs. All four were calm and one
smoked a cigarette while the noose was
being adjusted. None would say any
thing except one. who exclaimed as he
was led to execution: "J hope God will
forgive my enemies."
A New Mexico National Guards com
pany was held in readiness at the armory
in case of attempted demonstrations.
ROUTING OF TROOPS
IS KEPT SECRET
DEATH OF MRS. E. L. REYNOLDS.
Department Officials Explain Secrecy by
Saying They Wish to Prevent
Wrecking of Trains.
San Antonio. Texas, June 30. While
thousands of National Guardsmen are
moving toward the border, extraordinary
precautions are being taken to prevent
the exact routine and schedules of the
numerous special trains from becoming
known. General Funston has been in
stmcted to exercise the atmost preeau
tion in concealing mobilization details.
It. is explained that these steps are tak
en to render more dillicult any attempt
to wreck the trains.
It was hoped at Funstona hcadoiiar
ters that the greater part of the troops
now moving would reach the border
Saturday night. Reports that a strong
Mexican force has interrupted I ersh
ing's line of communications are de
nied.
U. S. TROOPS WITHDRAWN.
Evacuate Four Towns and Mexicans at
Once Take Possession.
Mexico City, June 30. General Trevi
no, commanding the de facto government
forces in Chihuahua, informed the wur
department by telegraph yesterday that
the American troops had commenced a
retirement northward and had abandoned
the towns of San ISuena Ventura. lais
nice. Namiquipa and Santa Clara.
These places. he added, were immediately
occupied bv his forces.
Ceneral Tretino also advised the war
department that the Villa generals. Mar
cello t arslelo. Juan Carhral and Ramon
Smsa. hud been permitted to enter the
nV tct' government's territory, coming
from the i nited Mate.
Died at Her Home in Wells at the Age
of 64.
Rutland, June 30. Mrs. E. L, Reynolds
of Wells, formerly of this city, died at
her home yesterdav morning at the age
of 64 years. Mrs. Reynolds, a native of
Dorset, lived in this city for many years,
moving to Barre 15 years ago, and again
to Wells a short time ago. She was
a member of the Baptist church in this
city.
Mrs. Reynolds is survived by her hus
band, a daughter, Mjs. Mary L. Gilbert
son of Wells, two sisters, Mrs. Harriet
M. Burton and Mrs. A. J. Dunton of this
city, two brothers, Wilbur Dunton of
Rutland and M. R. Dunton of New Vork
City.
The funeral will be held at the home
this evening. The body will be taken
to Center Rutland on a special trolley
car, which will arrive at 1:20 Saturday
afternoon. There will be services in the
chapel at Evergreen cemetery immediate
ly after the arrival of the car. The Or
der of the Eastern Star will conduct the
obsequies, the deceased having been a
member of the Barre order.
Paris, June 30. In a terrific attack on
French positions east of hill 304 in the
Verdun sector, the Germans captured a
fortified work in the first line of French
trenches after the garrison had been lit
erally buried under a storm of shells.
The position wa recaptured by a bril
liant French counter attack, according to
the official statement to-day.
The Germans also delivered a powerful
attack on French positions in the Avo
court wood and west of hill 304, but all
their efforts are declared to bave been
checked, with heavy losses to the attackers.
Considerable activity is reported on the
front from Nieuport to the AUne.
TELEPHONE CO. CERTIFIED.
Connecticut Valley Telephone tympany
Will Promote Public Good.
The public service commission of Vcr
mont has deckled that the proposed Con
necticut Valley Telephone company, Inc.,
will promote the general good ot t!ie
state. The petitioners for the corpora
tion are Nelson Bailey of Wells River,
Lee N. Blanchard, Groton, J, F. George,
Wells Ifiver, J. Ralph Pierce, Fairlee, G,
M, Marshall, Bradford, M. Eugene Mot-
rison, J'lermont, A. H., and rred v.
Story, Laconia, N. If.. The company is
to have its principal place of business at
Newbury, and proposes to operate tele
phone and telegraph lines in the towns 01
Bradford. Corinth, Fairlee, Newbury,
Orange, Thetford, Topsham, Vcrshire and
West Fairlee in Orange county, and Grot
on, I'eacham mid Kyegate in Caledonia
county and in the towns of Dorchester,
Hanover, Haverhill, Lyme, Orford and
Piermont. in the state of New Hamp
shire. The company will have a capit.il
stock of $30,000, divided into two thous
and shares of $25 each.
Th commission 1ms set forth in a cir
cular specification Tor material and con
struction of guard rails on sections of
highway ordered bv it in the elimination.
of grade crossings and said specifications
are to be considered as standards from
now on. 1 lie posts are to tie roui.u
peeled cedar on chestnut, seven feet
long and at least six inches in diameter
at the top and are to be set three feet
in the ground and eight feet apart. J lie
rails are to be of spruce and planed on
bo Mi sides and joined, these joints com
ing on alternate posts for the top and
bottom rails. When seasoned the guard
rails are to be given two coats of out
side white paint.
ror the purpose of eliminating two
dangerous grade crossings on the Rutland
railroad in the town of Brandon about
one-third of a mile above the Brandon
station, the commission has ordered the
Rutland railroad to construct four con
necting sections of highway and a steel
overhead pass with a 22-foot clearance
above the rails of the railroad. The sec
tions of highway are to be gravel roads
properly crowned, ditched and drained
and are to have the standard guard rails,
as set. forth by the commission, wherever
necessary'. The overpass will be 21 feet
wide and designed to carry in addition
to its own weight 100 pounds to the
square foot. "A steel guard rail will pro
tect traffic upon it. The work is to be
completed by December 1, 1916. Expenses
of construction will be borne in the fol
lowing proportions:' State of Vermont,
2. per cent; town of Brandon, 10 per
rent; Rutland Railroad company, (53 per
cent.. ..
WOUND IN BODY
MAY BE FATAL
FOR YOUNG MAN
John Dennehv, Aered 22
and a Resident of Haver
hill, Mass., Shot Through
Stomach, and His Com
panion, Frank Riley, Is
Held by Montpelier Police
son stayed at the Junction for several
hours and hunted diligently for the men
and for signs of a revolver. They se
cured a picture of one of the section men
in the car shack.
Dennehy was shot by someone very close
to him, for the powder marks were plain
ly discernible upon his clothes. The bul
let must have been from a large calibre
revolver, or the hole made was a large
one.
DENIED IIIS GUILT
LATTER CLAIMS SHOT
FIRED BY "ITALIAN"
The Shooting Took Place on
Central Vermont Track
Near Montpelier Junction
Where Two Italian Sec
tion Men Had Been Living
Riley and Dennehy Had
a Fight in Montpelier
IS 90 TO-MORROW.
AUSTRIANS RETREAT
THROUGH GALICIA
Onward Sweep of Russian Forces Seems
to Give Them Control of the Passes
Through the Carpathian
Mountains.
Joseph G. Mudgett Will Receive Callers
at 17 Averill Street.
Joseph Grant Mudgett, who recently
returned east from California, will be
Oil years old to-rnorow, July 1, and his
friends are invited to call during the
afternoon, from 2 to 6 o'clock, at Mrs.
L. B. Dodge's, 17 Aver in" street, where he
is stopping. Despite his advanced years
and somewhat impaired health, Mr. Mud
gett made the trip across the continent
alone, except for the directions that the
conductors were able to give him. He is
the last of eight children born to Abra
ham ami Judith Mudgett, and he is a nn-1
tive of Prospect, Me. Of his brothers and
sisters. Xehemiah lived to the age of 00,
Andrew to So, Lewis and Richmond to
Clarinda and Jane to 2 atil"Lucinda
London, June 30. In an attack over to
front of 25 miles, extending eastward Mr- Mudgett as the father of two
from Kolomea in Galicia, the Austrian KOn- Fred B. Mudgefi. who died in Barre
have been compelled to retire on a part "" ov- 3- v,m Rn(I Edwin A. Mudgett,
of the front vin the reeion of Kolomea wno lipi1 h '' -v,ara P s Fran-
and southward. The Austrians valiant- Cisco, I a I., where he was city ticket
Iv aftemnfed to hold back the oncomim- agent. Mrs. f.eorgiana Mudgett. widow
Russians, but according to Vienna. Em- l,f Fr,s,i 15 Mudgett. is spending the sum
peror Francis Joseph's warriors finally niPr in Barre, having come from her
were compelled to give way before sii- ,lo,,1 Cambridge. Mass. Mr. Mudgett
nerior forces lms ,fmr grandchildren. Kred G., Hazel
In this fighting and also in the bat-!and 'M'U Mudgett. all of Alameda, Gal.,
tie near Kuty, in Bukowina, the Austri-!an,i -Mr; l' thpr Pa i ley of New-
ans suffered heavy casualties.. In addi-!m,r.v state.
tion 221 officers and 10,285 men werj! f or some years Mr. Mudgett has been
made prisoners and heavy gun, machine residing in i alitornia. It w as because
mm and atorea were lout. The Ri.ui.n : nf ' (""cat desire to see his old friends
MUST GO BACK TO PRISON.
Dr. Allen, Who Was Conditionally Par
doned, Again Arrested.
Windsor, June 30. Dr. Samuel K. Al
len of White River Junction, who was
convicted July 20, 1911. and sentenced to
prison for a term of from five to eight
years for performing a criminal opera
tion, and who was conditionally par
doned July 21, 1912, by Governor Mead,
was arrested yesterday for breaking the
terms of this parole.
A warrant having been issued by Gov
ernor Gates, Dr. Allen will now serve
out seven years in the Vermont etate
prison.
successes in this region seemingly give
them almost free access to the Carpa
thian passes, and to the railway lines
running northwest from Kolomea to
Lemberg, the capital of Galicia.
On the central part of the Russian
front in Volhynia, the violent battle
around Li new lea and in the region of
Sokul continued unabated. Further
north, the Germans have followed heavy
bombardments at various positions with
infantry attacks which Tetrograd says
were all repulsed..
and to be onee again in Vermont that he
undertook the arduous trip from the far
western state.
VERMONTERS GIVEN OVATIONS.
All Along the Route As They Proceed to
Mexican Border.
Chicago. June 3. The freight sec
tion of the first troop section and second
troop section of the 1st Vermont infan
try has reached this point. The men are
comfortable. There is no sickness, dis
cipline is excellent and . every body is
happy. We have seen lot of troops from
nt.ir wta..t Kut ii v. ililii.ro .niito j-m,,.
Failed in1 Then Withdrew " " ""
I pare with our own troons. there lias I
Near Kennd, Persia. jbeen a continuous ovation en route. Pen
rv.r.fantinr.i.lo .Time "in Th. !?,.. ; n I P'e are out everywhere with llas an,
troops in Persia have w ithdrawn from !' ulrr ""e s 01 en. hums
DESPERATE ATTACKS REPULSED.
Russians
John Dennehy, aged 22, of Kimball
street, Haverhill, Mass., is at the Heaton
hospital, Montpelier, in a critical condi
tion as the result of being shot in the
stomach at the Montpelier Junction rail
road yard last evening, and his compan
ion, rranu ruiev, is neinir detained in
county jail pending investigation, al
though Mates Attorney (.lea son ex
pressed his conviction early this after
noon that Riley was not responsible for
the young mans wround.
According1 to Riley's story, Dennehy
was shot by an Italian, one of two sec
tion men who have resided for two weeks
in a shack beside the track a quarter of
a mile irom the Junction depot, and the
police are now searching for the "two sec
tion men.
State's Attorney Gleason telephoned to
the chief of police in Haverhill this fore
noon and later got into touch with the
wounded man's parents. He learned
from them that young Dennehy is a
blick. smith by occupation. At first his
name had been given to the Montpelier
police as John Cavin. State's Attorney
Ole&son also stated that he had learned
from other sources enough to. convince
him the shooting had been done bv some
one not .vet apprehended.
Riley and Dennehy, from their appear
ance., have been tramping about the
the country. Attention wa first directed
to them early last evening when they
engaged in a fistic encounter on the j
tracks just below the Central Vermont
station in Montpelier. The quarrel was
witnessed by (leorge Morehouse, who
was walking along the track. Several
blows were exchanged, according to More
house, and in the mixup a tobacco can
dropped from a pocket of one of the men.
Morehouse picked it up after the men
had resumed their walk toward the Junc
tion and to his surprise the tin contained
at least a doen dynamite caps with
short fuses attached. He immediately re
ported the matter to the police and Offi
cer Frank Baldwin started in a hurry
for the Junction.
But Circle Street Man Is Held and Police
Look for His Brother.
.Manuel hrbosco of Circle street was
admitted to bail of $.)00 in city court
this morning when he was arraigned on a
breach of the peace charge and a hear
ing was set for Monday morning at 1)
o'clock. Krbosco was taken in custody
Ihursday afternoon by Officer John S,
-Hurley on a warrant issued by State s
Attorney F. K. Gleason. It. is alleged
that hrbosco was implicated in a row on
Circle street last Saturday when a man
named Marcellino Campo was pounded
over the head with a ten-pin. A brother
of the responrlent, wanted by the police,
in connection with the attack on Campo,
is still at large. Erbosco pleaded not
guilty to the charge and said he would
look up an attorney to represent him in
the case.
Soon after the trouble Campo was re
moved to tie City hospital, where he is
reported to be recovering from a severe
scalp wound, which required 11 stitches
to close. He will return to his home in
a few days. Aceordine to the police, the
trouble at Circle street started over a
Spanish game called "bootch."
FOR IRISH RELIEF.
ST. J0HNSBURY MAN DROWNED.
Thomas Moore Was Employed as Cook
on Boston-Halifax Line.
in. We arc
the fortified positions near Kerind after ('''"d into three t roop sections each sec
some desperate attack which were re- ! -"inpieie wi
pulsed by the Turks, in which the Rus
sians lost heavily, according to the official
ammunition and field
statement.
A COMPANY D FUND.
Being Raised in St. Johnsbury Prompt
Response Given.
equipment.
TROOPS ALL WELL.
Reported Regimental Adjutant Barber ic
Brief Note.
J)ennehy Lay on Track.
It was while he was conducting a
search for the two men that an engine
from the Junction yards overtook him
near the Lombard farm and informed
him thnt a iron had been shot on the
track a quarter of a mile toward North
field on the main line. He was taken to
the scene by the engine crew and he
found Dennehv lying at full length on the
cinders, apparently unconscious, with a
bullet hole in the pit of bis stomach.
Riley was seated on a rail close by and
told the officer that hi companion had
been wounded by an Italian, one of two
occupants of the shack near by.
Riley said he and Dennehv were sit
ting down near the headquarter of the
section men and that the Italians, whose
names were later learned by the police
to be N. Rosso and X. Ruono, appeared
and ordered them to move, swearing vio
lently to emphasize hi mmmind. Ac
cording to Riley, his companion started
to arise from the keg on which he was
Meeting Held in Barre to Organize Plana
for Aid of Revolt's Dependents.
Measures for the relief of people who
are smlerinir as a result ot the recent
rebellion in Ireland were considered at
an enthusiastic gathering of Irish people
and sympathizers in the Knights of Co
lumbus hall last evening. Daniel J.
Sullivan presided and Patrick Hernon
acted as secretary. It was a representa
tive assembly of Irish people in Bane
and vicinity and from the outset there
was evinced a very evident desire to as-
sigt those dependent who; by unfortunate
circumstances, have been .thrown upuii
the charity of the Irish race.
A number of informal speeches were
made and stirring Irish songs were ren
dered by James Bennett and Roy King
ston of Northfield, who were loudly en
cored for their efforts. The singing
seemed to strike the right pith and one
and all speedily warmed to the plan of
soliciting funds for the sufferers.
Appeals were read from the Ancient
Order of Hibernians and from the Irish
relief society. It wss decided to conduct
the local canvass through the medium of
fund committee, which was instructed
to divert the subscriptions to the relief
fund committee.. All persons of Irish
descent and other who sympathize with
the sufferers will be asked to contribute.
The committee is made up of K. J.
McNulty. Michael Keefe. Patrick Her
non and D. J. Sullivan, who are empow
ered to select ' their own assistants in
the work. It is proposed to have meet
ings from time to time and regular re
ports on the progress of the subscription
will be received. When the returns a;e
completed, the money will be forwarded
to the Irish relief fund committee of
which Cardinal Farley and Cardinal
O'Connell are honorary member.
Through this medium the transfer of
money and supplies to the place where
they are needed nost is greatly expedited."
NEIGHBORLY
TOUR TAKEN
Forty Autos Carrying Near
ly 200 People Went Last
Evening to Marshfield
WERE RECEIVED
MOST HOSPITABLY
First of thV'rre Board of
Trade'p acquaintance ;
Tou Very Pleasant '
J. NEWTON H0SF0RD
Was One of Few Civil War Veterans Left
in Berlin.
J. Newton Hosford, one of the few
veterans of the Civil war still left in the
town of Berlin, died yesterdav at the
home of his nephew, H. M. Perrin. where
he had resided for 1(5 years. He had been
in failing health for some time.
Mr. Hosford was born in Thetford Jan.
24, 1841, being the son of Jared and Abi
gal iKinnev) Hosford. He served in the
Civil war, Saving enlisted in the 10th
Vermont regiment, and was wounded in
the buttle of Lookout mountain. He was
a member ol lirooks post. I.. A. K., in
Montpelier and of the Washington Coun
ty Veterans' association, being active in
veterans' organisation. He also attend
ed many national encampments. He was
the Ut of a family of nine children.
The funeral will be held from the Ber
lin Corner church Saturday afternoon at
1:.10. and interment will be in the village
cemetery there.
BIG STORE ROBBERY.
ARRIVAL OF TROOPERS.
Brought By Special Tram from Chihua
hua City.
Fl Paso. Texas. June 30 The 23 negro
trooper of the Tenth cavalry, whn t
arrirafrVilU Ahumanada,C)ihuhna City
and Juarez hste been central figures in
nte of the rn-ft striking "bpters of the
Mexioin Situation, are Mfclr out of Mcx-1
St. JiWinsburv, June ,"!0. Thorn
Moore. 2. son of Mr. Hannah Moore,
was drowned yesterday in Halifax har
bor. He wa employed a a cook bv
jthe Plant Steamship Co.. on the steamer
Halifax, running from Boston to Hali
fax. In boarding the steamer, it is sup
poed he fell overboard.
Thee body ws recovered and is on it
way to St. Johnbury. Kdard Moore,
a brother of the unfortunate man. n
killed in the railroad yards here a fen
years apo. Two brother survive. H-r-
i bert and Hrrv, of St. .Inburv.
The following brief word from Rcgi- I
mental Adjutaut C. N. IVrlierwasreepied !
by F. ; How la nd of I'.ane: "1 neont.i.
N. V. We detrained here to e.erci-e ;
the troons. No .ik!ics n far. Kvcrv- ;
body in irood epirit. t.rcat deiinm-trs-, t'liue in c-t igat ion and to take
tinns at Bellow Kail
North A him.''
sea.eu anwer,K me ..ana. , '." About $700 Worth Of Goods Was Stolen
iiieanw nwe. i iteo came i lie snot w men j
wounded the younger of the two tramp, i ' Chester.
the bullet speeding over Riley' shoulder! Chester. June .10. The Chester
in it course, the It ilians fled after the!store. F. C. Locke, proprietor, was cnw..n j
j tered some time Neuiiesday night by a i Mr. C. H
burglar and about worth ot watches. 'r,rvrni),Ilt B,K.jPtv f Marshricld. which
many being the property of customer, ' t,ad rrcmrcd and served the supocr an
made other arrangements tor the enter
tainment of tiie liarre part v. Mr. tha-
St. Johnsbury, June .T. Through the
effort of the Commercial club and offi
cial of the K. t T. Fairbanks company.
upwards of $500 will be forwarded t
Capt Herbert A. lleox ot Company D
within the next few days. Subscription
papers c irculated by members of the club
were readjly signed by townspeople and
the ones circulated at the shop brought
forward contribution large and smsll
from the workmen there. At a band
concert lat nicht the la die served re
cream, the proceeds of which were to stpw art and Mrs. l irr.
help swell the sum and Sunday night I. ! Mr- Robert " . .loi.nM n. who h
S. Story, proprietor of a moving picture : h""n making her home in Barre sin e
show, will put on a special program and ,l,,r bu-hsnd di-p"-ed of his buMnf-s n
V. r.winli therefrnm ,11 all he i,rr,..l '-raniteli le MMers! month S20. le't n-
I into the committee in charge of the r. i;- ri,T "'' mominc f"r I.cds. V. V . where
1 ii.n.i. .' ;-e is to nH- evTl :th rei
hot had been fired, continued
and they are still to be located.
In the meantime Chief of Police Con
nolly and Officer K. D. Sloan were noti
fied of the shooting and arrived at the
ene in a jitney i-omniandeered for the
trip. The wounded man w taken to
the Junction on the front of an engine
and trmirted to the honoitl in the
jitnev. the officer staying behind to con-
harge
Forty automobiles carrying 191 persons
made the run from Barre to Marshfield
and return last evening in the first of
the organized "better acquaintance" toura
projected by the Barre Board of Trade
for the summer, and, to say that all the
people enjoyed the occasion would be
putting the statement mildly. At Marsh-
field they mingled. with about an equal
number of Miirshfield people and all were
served a banquet by the ladies of the
Village Improvement society of that vil
lage in the Knights of Pythias hall. An
orchestra and the Citizens' band were
carried along and, in addition, a series
of Barre views were thrown "on the
screen in an alfresco entertainment. The '
32-mile . spin under suitable conditions
was also reckoned as not one of the
least pleasing features of the evening's j
program. Taken altogether, the run1
was a marked success. j
The Barre prty gathered at the city
park and left the city shortly after 6
o'clock, having first been given printed
instructions tor the "rule of the road ;
for the time-being. Eueh car was deckel
out with banners announcing that it waa
the "Barre Board of Trade" that was on
the road, thus serving to identify the
crow-d for the people who gathered along
the line of progress, through East Mont
pelier arid Plaintield villages. The trip
outbound was made without incident
save a dish of our daily rain in the facea
of the motorists, not heavy enough, how
ever, to cruse any inconvenience.
Arriving at Marshfield. the guests
passed under a street arch bearing the
word "Welcome" and were made to feel
at home at once. The 40 machines drew
up before the K. of P. hall, the passen
gers alighted , and the ctirs were driven
to the common, where they were parked
in thick order, facing the screpn which
had been attached to a store building and
on which the pictures were later to be
thrown.
After a little of the dust of travel had
been removed, the Barre people mingled
with the home folk, together with a few
from other towns, and marched into the
banquet hall, where tables spread their
snowy expan-e clear from front to rear.
It seemed there surely was room enough
for a regiment, but when the combined
advance of the two communities had
crossed the threshold it was evident that
every foot of room would be utilized.;
And it. was. About 3i0 persons were
served at supper, and an excellent sup-j
per it was, too. consisting of many kinds i
of sahds. cold ineat. rolls, bread and'
butter, pickles, coffee, rake and ice cream
and all vou could cat of every kind.1
A large number of waiters fluttered1
about, attending to the wants of thn
hungry people, after there bad been in-'
vocation by Kev. C. II. ( "hnpin of the
Mar-shficld Congregational church. While
supper was being served. Carroll's oiches-
tra played almost continuously because
of the many encores demanded.
Postmaster A. T. D.ivis of Marsh field,
rapped for order and called upon H. D.
MeCrillis, president of t lie village cor
poration, to express in words what al-
reaK- had been evident in the actions of .
the M-ir.-hlield peop.e that the visitors!
were welcome. This Mr. McCi i'lis did in
a few words while standing beneath an
nrch which bore the word "Welcome.",
the arch forming the centerpiece of the
decorations of the hill, which consisted
mainly of the national colors. Mr. Mc-.
frill is word were well received and
served to put the two communities, a'
there represented, on most friendly
terms.
J. Ward Carver of Barre. himself
Marshfield product and one of many,
which tint town had relinquished to
Barre. a a later speaker narrated, spoe
I in liehalf of the Barre Board of Trade,.
! telling of the cordial relations between
'"Vlthe two communities. His remarks were!
by a mo.-t felicitous talk from
Chniiin for the Village Im-
Kntrance
window;
i home of Mr. IVter
street. Mr. Talk c
Tark of
a siter
h,;i ;
Mr..
T. R S ARMY GROWS.
t
The dipoal of the money will be let
ito the discretion of the officer of Coir-
Survivor vf an engagement witi a - .,-..., . ... - . i n ..J 4k. ,-.k..... ... are to take on their re d.t,t e.
r-nor force. c,im, ..ic of mob, -FP--"- ",a , At Dewey ,U .hi e,e,on2 .He lul-
stored t,em. more thn once gripped I ' r" numerous. :,efy riuh il hold i!,e frt t a
with the fer of ee, titton f.r their pxj Oyster Bay. June 3rt. Application fr ;
in .he Bmd iped!tion and, lastly ob- (enlistment in the prpoed tolunterrj
t of inte.e!on rT trie presi'tent cf'srmy civiion that Fnoseveit i prepti
t se t n tei Ststes. ter were brougot to.irjr t organize, if te a!l mm for
KITCHENER S ESTATE
lu,e tr,jr from tunuanna I it y on a
t- I trtrn Teter"y nl turned over
.. ! t.eV fvil. jr
,-, I H Po Ue.
vr.lurteer. are so numerous that tH
colonel wretary b isued a tat -
cmmivjer i meet tHat it will l iirnissib'e in rrp'y
jt -! r.(i1,rwji bit! that ? rpl
i
V .Ui lb'. a tm Lri IL t'uiftr.rjv ticiu will be t4 J.-r futui ttU .'-&..,
Amount to $X3,00a, It Is Revealed Bv
Hi WUL
Im-lon. June 31. Field Ma's ial Far!
KmKeoer will ha len ndnvttc.f t
prebete. It ' that be left an rotate
vs'.u'i t H iCkiuiiteh fyc.
Brattlehoro andiof Bil"y. who wa Isfer lodged in jail.
Bullet Lodged in Pelvic Region.
tn nneration w performed on P"nm hr
Mrs. T. J. Stewart of Oakland. ''!.. , ), brvsmtal about 1 o'clork flv nwn'-
and Mr. WiIImtii Marr and t o children , flp ,,(), .oin ifod br ue ,.f
of IVtroit. Mich, are isifinj at i-x" , . - ,, ,. Kni il km nnt nnu'r tn rt-
trait it. The bullet pursued down
wsrd cou'se a'tcr sfnVin; the iran ail
'is located ne.r tie pehi-i. Mi cin.M ion
was ef p-mc'v crit ical t hi a'tem.xm " I
!'e eVanc for bi rwerv are ;,J
i e v.'cht.
RUey' Statements Disagree.
Riley wa queMioncd loe!y for set
er.il hour by off -or. He hrk d"n and
.rrie.f at t' Junction, although when di
!(Trred seated tieir hi companion br
;i.er Baldwin he Hi) not eem particu
larly perturbed. He -k constantly
tiit hi con-psri'nn t the jail, ae ord
ir Ci tse ofj. '!.
K.lev was MMnhei at the ;a I and
tehnirn 13 w t'n 7 cnt found.
With the evr-tin of hi land he p
l.tred t" be clean and w.th cvsj fV.fbe.
rr !" t eie enovc n. n i aorit .i irt
aifl jewcry were tai.i n. I o r.
to the identity of the thief,
wa made bv breaking .1 l.ir;
in the rear of the building.
Ani.tie the loot secure! was about
10 wathe left for rcp.iji. J," lieu
wa'ihes. nearly the K"ii' nun.ler of cold
locke's an! several traps of rini;s. pins
and chains,
a jeweler. I"
When the
p;n sprinkled ept stories and pleasinjr.
anecdote through her remarks and also
touched upon more ferious matters which '
confront the two communities, while she
aUo made passing allusion to the growth
of Bine and deilircd that if that eitr.
Inev Bui-son. employed a should expand it-elf very lasgely Marh-I
; a v.iIiiHbie watch. ; field itself tri-.'ht n-'t liesxerse to coming,
brrk was d.-coveied yes i,lii the designation of the '(.rcater
terday I'l- rnML- the authorities weie no.
t:ried l ut re i !e could J.e obtained o'hr
than that ,:,on,dn!e e:e heard erly j
ve-frday morning in this wliaue.
Barre" ;
At the cloe of Mr. h.ipin's remarks,
Pie-ideiit W. C Be nobis of the Barre
li.wrd of Trade announced that hi crowd1
pa
fix' 1-ater -he will unfmpitiy
i.l. !,n1on to Va-kaf. hew r.. l erc
Mr..
"- of "i"'n air
1-1 r. i
d ic i;i t be p ii on.
Ka t-n rrt'ir' I t-
play for the irs. It i ptop.'.l t-
ottinue tie noi.t'i'v lianc urf.l
U.Kr. Hereto. ie t' r-c-lar a-seti -bli
of t s, icfv. I i ' "Cn'" i
among P.aire and Vot-tr' T jnang p"'
! a'1 ti l !' I'n K"l r.Uj'l ill
liarre of !-.,Im .
' Bid re, rived by the city council f,,r
th.- base of the opers hou-e are Win.;
in et ii-ated by the hierii..inic property
eommitte. the mrnilier t f w hic'i w ill re
port at the coiiivil Sfs-jcn Monday even-I'X-
"several of tie lid were made On
t!.e hi of py;ng f..r the theatre on'v
whfn it i in use. Su-h tTidir bsve
presented the lease prnbi. m m a n w
apc, t to .he proretty orm.Itee an I
t':y v Jl !c c im caret, il attrtc n.
letter fi"-n M. I' te New t o; V
th'sf's! man, w "n p'. in n (Tr of
J4 '! arid . '- I" t he piar.s i
Mt.'ije t 'e t'.ieatre for ne it:g i t-:
rITTrte ien r-'d s!io are pi.f in,;.
bad brouirb' along a set of views and a.
bund, in addition ti the orchestra which
already l ad b' en heard, and that the
i w would be siiown at t'e common
and t'set the band would play at the
same !a. . Tlieret'ore. the .t.iil people
tiled out of th ball and with other
marched to de lOin-non.
period of !i;t n lour
rr '.a ni Ivr-uty ii'f .2 L-
af'Ie. The pT-rrtv i'.rj
"if.l the t t t a I b
li;if'l' e if t e t" i' r -
sa" ks'aftury.
is M --
...,f
il Lu
ll!- re for a
IIkv were re-
Clr. with mu-'i tv the Hand and enter
tained with lan!,-rti til- depicting
si me atT' it Banc, the nr heinj; new
to l"..ure people as well to Marshfield,
t.ai-2 t-rn -i e. ij';!y prepare.! for the
tour. 1 he daikm of me of the neg-ttve-
had a tec j. ncv to make some of
the picture u'e. hut in the rii
Cv were ao.--,i aiii furni-h-d mriMdcr
at.'e entrf j) rtf
Ti e p t .
'I'inl: i t
(Cortina-! on fnrtb pj. t
