THE OWO
TIME
PAGES 1 TO 8
"OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. JUNE 30. 1916.
NO. 14
Summer School at Lincoln Building.
The Lincoln school will be reopened
on Monday, Jnly 10. for a summer
school session of six weeks which will
be held expressly for delinquent pupils.
Any children of the city schools from
the third grade up and including the
seventh, will be admitted to make np
back subjects which they might have
failed in during the past year.
Coroorans Off the News List.
f
Prosecuting Attorney Pulver has
nolle prossed the case against Mrs. Hat
tie Corcoran, ot Owosso, charged with
assault on her former husband, John
Corcoran, with intent to commit great
bodily harm less than murder. The
prosecutor stated that after investigat
ing the case he was convinced it would
be impossible to secure a conviction.
Speeder Sued.
Suit for 100 damages was started
Friday before Justice Nichols in Cor
unna, by Floyd Wightmin of New
Uayen township against John Waters
of Owosso. Waters ran into Wight
man's buggy last week Tuesday even
ing, and smashed it, while drunk. He
was fined and sent to jail for five days.
The papers in the case were served on
him at the county jail.
City Engineer Resigns.
Eugene Brewer, city engineer for
several years, has resigned and left the
city's employ on Saturday night. He
is vice president and general manager
of the new Strand theatre, now nearlng
completion, and will devote all of his
time to that enterprise. Mr. Brewer
has rendered excellent service to the
city and it is with keen regret that the
commission loses his services.
Mr. Brewer will be succeeded by
Fletcher Gould, a former Owosso boy,
a graduate of the local high school and
of theJI. A. C. Mr. Oould has been
teaching engineering in a western uni
versity for several years.
Former Owosso Man Killed.
Vern Tingley, an electrician twenty
five years of age, was electrocuted Mon
day night while at work in Jackson,
where he had made his home for the
past year.
Tht remains were brought to this
city Tuesday morning and taken to the
home of Mr. Tingley's father, A. J.
Tingley, 800 North Shiawassee street,
, where a brief prayer service, conducted
by Rev. H. A. Walte, was held at 2
o'clock. The funeral was held under
the auspices of the Moose lodge of
which Mr. Tingley was a member.
The remains were taken to Carson City
, Tuesday afternoon for burial.
Prior to going to Jackson to reside
Mr. Tingley had been a resident of
this city for nine years, coming here
from Carson City. During his resi
dence here he was employed as lineman
by the Union Telephone Co. and later
accepted a position with the Consumers'
Power Co. He is survived by a half
sister, Miss Ameta Tingley, aged nine
years, of this city.
Tributes To Patriotism.
The soldiers who passed out of
Owosso, Saturday, for possible ser
vice on the Mexican border were paid
glowing tributes in the churches of
Owosso and Corunna, Sunday.
In paying a tribute to the boys In
khaki, Rev. B. G. Mattson of the
Congregational church here said:
"A certain man planted a vine
yard and set a hedge about it and
built a tower and let it out to hus
bandmen." Mark 12:1.
In the crisis of the present hour
wo may well pause to listen when
' both religious duty and national du
ty join in reminding us that both
soldier and civilian hold a common
lease of life. America is our vine
yard, planted and protected anc
prospered by the hand of God Joined
"'ith the hands of men. As it was
the America of our fathers so is it
today our America. It was theirs
not to do with as they, pleased but
t,s a lease whose terms they nobly
honored that they might pass It on
enriched to us their successors in
tho leasehold.
(Continued on page two.)
T. J Tuebt has donated the
use of hit tb.eatre,The Colonial,
to the Soldiers' Relief Com
mittee for Wednesday, Jnly 5,
and will forniih the film free
of MADAME PETROVA, the
great Haitian' actrett, in a
powerful photoplay. Beth Q.
Pulver will make a patriotio
address in the evening. Ev r
citizen it urged to attend and
thu aaalat in a worthy cause
and at the same time get yonr
money's worth in entertainment.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
ETq lallze County at Total of $38,057,
900 Elect Poor Commissioner.
The board of supervisors adjourned
Thursday afternoon after a four day
session for the purpose of equalizing
the valuations of the cities and wards
of the county. The total equalized
valuation of the county by the commit
tee's report is $36,057,000 a decrease of
124,000 from last year. Owosso is equal
ized at $8,332,800 an increase oyer last
year of $165,000.
On Wednesday the board unani
mously selected Geo. M. Dewey and W.
A. McMullen to represent the county
at the State Board of Equalization
meeting in Lansing in Angust.
Elbert Henry of Durand, was elected
Wednesday to succeed Cecil McLaugh
lin, resigned as poor commissioner, re
ceiving 1 votes to 4 for Theo. Kebler.
A large number of bills were allowed
and the board authorized the purchase
of a motorcycle to be used by the
eh aria's force in securing evidence
against violators of the speed law.
The matter of making preyislon for
families of members of the national
guard who had been called to camp to
go to the Mexican front if needed was
discussed, and it was decided unani
mously to provide relief liberally, each
supervisor handling the matter in his
own district. A committee consisting
of E. O. "Dewey, S. S. Miner and C. D.
Bell, appointed by the Owosso Im
provement Association, appeared before
the board and told of the needs and
plans that had already been made by
Owosso business men, manufacturers
and employees to assist in handling the
matter.
Post Office Notes.
Patrons' of the post office are re
minded of the fact that information
concerning mail matter is not given
over the telephone and are requested
not to call for tbesame as it is im
possible for employees to answer calls
Inquiring whether there is mail or not.
Calls may come from individuals in
quiring about some other person's mail
than their own and Information se
cured to which they have no right. To
avoid this and other abuses, the rule
forbidding the answering of telephone
inquiries of this kind will be strictly
enforced. Persons receiving their mail
by city carrier are not expected to call
at the general delivery for mall and
the same cannot be given out. Patrons
are requested to observe both rules.
The change of time on the railroads
has necessitated several changes in the
schedule time of the mails leaving the
post office and it will be well to note
the time of departure of the messenger
and plan to have mail matter in the
office several minutes earlier to make
sure of its being included in the dis
patch, The mails for the Michigan
Central leave the office at 7:30, 11:10
a. m., 5:35 and 8:15 p. m. going south;
13:35 and 6:10 p. m. going north.
Much mail for points north is dis
patched on the train south, at 8:15
p. m. and returned by the early train
north in the morning. Grand Trunk:
East at 8:40 a. m., 12:35, 5:35 and,7:55
p m.; west at 10 a. m., 2:40 and 7:00 p.
m. Ann Arbor, south at 8:40 a. m.,
4:35 p. m.; north at 11:10 a. m., 7;00 p.
m. The train south on the Michigan
Central at 8:15 p. m., and east on the
Grand Trunk at 7:55 p. m. are both ex
press trains with no mail clerk on and
the pouches dispatched are both locked
so that there is no opportunity to dis- (
patch mail at the depots. The M. C.
pouch goes direct to Jackson and mail
is re-worked there, while the pouch
going via tne Grand Trunk goes to Port '
Huron and is re-worked for tbe train!
going west in the morning. At present '
a pouch is dispatched at 8:15 p. m. for
the Ann Arbor motor going north early j
in the morning but this may be dlscon- j
tinned because the quantity of mail is '
very light, frequently not a single piece
to go. m j
The executive committee of tie
County Sunday School Association was
in session at the Congregational church 1
Tbureday afternoon outlining the work
for the summer and fall. It was de-'
cided to unite with the Grangers and
Gleaners and other organizations of tbe
county in a picnic to be held at Mc-'
Curdy park the latter part of August, :
also to hold a series of meetings in tbe
various parts of the county for a week
beginning August 20th. t
Sergeant John J. McDonald, who
went y to GrayliDg with Company II,
as a corporal last Saturday, arrived
home VYedneeday. Serg. McDonald has
been granted a furlough of six weeks,
subject to call lor service at any time.
Capt. Stevens, quartermaster of the
Thirty-third regiment, appointed the
Owoflfo man to have charge of the
regimental wagon train of 23 wagons,
with the rank of sergeant.
MICHIGAN MUST
FURNISH 1,065
MORE SOLDIERS
Camp Ferris, Grayling, Mich., June
29. Michigan must furnish six more
troops of cavalry of 75 men eacb, an
other battalllon of artillery and an ad
ditional corps of engineers to come up
to requirements demanded .by tbe
United States war department, it was
announced at the first conference here
of the state military board this after
noon. This entails the enlistment of
1,065 more men.
Each of the military units must be
permanent and not to exist only during
tbe Mexican crisis, it was announced.
The organizations are demanded for
service in the present emergency. They
will have the same status as other
units of the national guards, and must
have their own armories.
There are three batteries of 171 men
each in a battalion of artillery. A
corps of engineers is composed of 175
men.
The onlv stena alreadv taken to fill
the new requirements is the organl-
zation of battery C, Detroit, which is
expected to arrive here this week.
The board also made provision to
maintain the armories during tbe ab
sence of the guardsmen. To do this
the formation of 'civilian military or
ganizations was urged. It was decided
to encourage this phase of prepared
Less both financially and morally.
A letter from Seth Pulver, county
prosecuting attorney at Owosso, offer
ing to organize another compauy at
that place was read at the meeting.
Pulver said he would undertake the
tftsk himself.
With the exception of the cannon at
morning and night, not a single gnn
has been fired in camp since the mob
ilization order.
Major Phillips, in charge of small
arms practice of the brigade, declaied
tonight it was probable that the Thirty-
first I regiment and perhaps the other
two would receive no target practie
aunt iuvy gui iu iuo uuruer.
"The raw recruits," he said, "are
not in shape for this yet, while the
u.UWmBu.u.ui iuo Kuru are nunu
any particular need of It. Last year
4 1 V, V-it I
.n.. ..u.. a 1.1 ji a. I
the members were better marksmen
than at any other time in the history
of the guard. The indoor practice,
too, has been exceptionally good."
Announcement was made that a
portion at least of the Michigan guard,
in all probability tbe Thirty-first regi
ment, would leave for the Mexican
border Saturday.
This is in conf ormority with the order
of Commander Barry of Chicago, who
has directed all troops in the Michigan
division to move as soon as "reasonably
ready."
According to officials here no portion
will be "reasonably ready" before that 13 filIed out for each ldier and offl
time. Herculean efforts are bein ' w who "takes on" with Uncle Sam:
made by examining officers to get the
n.an raai)v h.tWH.,.
SOLDIERS' DEPEND
ENT FAMILIES
To be Well Cared For Prompt Ao
tion by Citizens and Officials.
Countv and city officials, and vaiious
organizations and citizens generally there at.
have taken prompt steps to see that the , Captain Colladay of A company,
families of the boys of Company H are PnnT( gent a similar message and ex
well provided for during the absence of plained that pursuant to a rigidly
the wage-earners in the service ot their enforced order of cleanliness it is
country. Tbe city commission led off necessary for each man to have at
with a contribution of $100 to care for least two suits of underwear and a
immediate demands while an organiza- suflicient supply of socks,
tiun was being perfected to care for the : Several recruits of each company
work in a systematic manner and to were taken away so suddenly that
this fund has been added amounts sub- the were "nable to obtain the neces-
n.rJho hi- anma nf th tnnnnfaftnrny Sflry Clothing.
" O
concerns and their employees. At the
luncheon of the Improvement Associa
tion Tuesday, C. D. Bell, Mayor Da
Young and Radcliffe Romeyn were
named as a committee to haye this Hursh, were detailed to stand guard
work in charge; and S. S Miner, E O. in A company, Flint.
Dewey and C. D. Bell were appointed Private Anderson of Coldwater, a
to confer with the board of supervisors member of A company, 32nd infan
and ?k that action be taken assuring a merely
definite pledge from the county to assist piret Qid mea8u-cs were admini3ter
in the work. The committee called on ed at the regimental infantry
the board Wednesday morning and as- flln Wr,phtf L,eutg SnQW flnd
surancewas promptly given that the Fltzperaljt and' Sergts. Long and
supervisors would cheerfully co operate Meyers of D. company, 32nd infan
wlth local committees In looking after try, Kalamazoo, worked all night
the families and that county funds long preparing the muster rolls and
would be providod to meet the ,de- at reveille the books were in such
mands. A canvass by Messrs. Bell and b-ape that every member of the com
Romeyn shows more than twenty faml- Py ha !ned hIa name before
lies to be pendent at present The "tiTSIfand Dunhata were
energy with which this work has been Bss,Rned t0 gtand guard for D com.
undertaken shows the people of Owosso The ent,re company spend elx
Su1hl5 X.-??-Sti1SK nours practicing close and cxtende
member of . Company U that their order drilling on the parade grounds,
families will not be neglected. (Continued on page even.)
LETTERS FROM CAMP
History of First Week at Camp Ferr'a
by Major M. J. Phillips.
Camp Ferris, June 28. Governor
Ferris was deeply touched by the
sight of so many men in uniform,
and by the reception which they
gave him. He referred repeatedly
during Tuesday evening to the fine
physical condition of the men and
their evident courage and good
spirits.
Handling the rifle in offense con
sumed the Wednesday morning drill
hour. The companies, as skirmish
ers! threw themselves prone on the
turf and at the command of their
officers fixed their sights, aimed at
an object somewhere in the front
and snapped them at command.
For the reason that there is simply
no time for it, there has been no
practice with ball ammunition. The
company commanders are so over
crowded with work in teaching their
recruits the mere rudiments of sol
diering that rifle practice cannot be
attempted.
The probable disposition of the
Michigan troops and their duties af
ter Heaving here, are problematical.
It Is assumed that they will not be
sen to tne firing line for at least two
months and perhaps three, after go
IngUo the border or the vicinity of
the 'border, as It is absurd to think
that companies containing 50 per
cent of new men, many without uni
forms or rifles, will be employed In
fighting. Until these new men are
drilled and disciplined and assimilat
ed into the units to which they be
long, they would bo worse than use
less as soldiers. Undoubtedly there
will be opportunity for target prac
tice on the Texas prairies.
The Michigan Central has furnish
ed all the necessary cards to move
the 31st Infirmary south if the
31st is first to be sent and they
clutter the sidings at Grayling and at
camp. Alternative routings have
been! furnished the camp quarter
master by the central division. The
troops will go from Grayling to Chl
cagojvia M. C, and then, if they are
to- ittdke Nogates, Ariz, their head
quarters, the Santa Fe will be taken.
The Rock Island if San Antonio Is
the objective wll, be the route.
The officers and men who submit
to physical examination are kept in
a state of suspense which in some In-
stance8 has jasted for tnree dayg
The Medical Reserve Corps surgeons
I ...... ...
wno were detailed nere to make tne
examinations have no authority to
announce their decisions until the
papers are submitted to the regular
army medico, who did not arrive in
camp until Wednesday. Ho has, al
ready, several hundred sets of rec
ords to review, and It may be twenty
four hours more before his decisions
are known. Of course some of the
officers receive intimations that they
are not physical wrecks, but the in
formation volunteered really
amounts to little more than they
know themselves.
This is the descriptive blank which
rf"k' age(years and months)
height, (feet and inches); complex-
ion, hair and eyes; where born
town, county, state or kingdom; oc
cupation; married or single; resi
dence; name and address of person
to be notified in case df emergency,
j giving degree of relationship: if
friend, so state; date of expiration of
'present commission or enlistment In
state service; home station or com-
pany rendezvous; date of appearance
n.rtro. n0l.,,o
and Alfred Kll-
lian, privates, were detailed to
guard duty Wednesday in H com
pany. Two brothers, Frank an.l John
03
Absolutely Puro
No Alum No Phosphate
BIG CIRCUS ANNOUNCED.
Carl Hagenbeck-Wallace Shows Are
to Exhibit Here Soon.
The billboards and dead walls about
the city are announcing in all tbe elo
quence of pictorial art thai the Carl
Hagenbeck-Wallace Circus is to visit
Owosso, Wednesday, July 12. Great
interest attaches to the eyent, particu
larly so because the circus is the only
tented exhibition offering an array of
trained wild animals. The name Carl
Hagenbeck for nearly a century has
stood at tbe top in the annals of wild
animals. Every zoo of any importance
in the world receives its charges from
the Carl Hagenbeck headquarters at
Hamburg, Germany, as well as the fact
that tbe menageries of all circuses are
similarly supplied.
So much interest did the Carl Hagen
beck trained wild animals cause at the
St. Louis World's Fair in 1904 that the
owners of the Great Wallace Circus
entered into negotiations with Mr.
Hagenbeck. Tbe result was that both
great institutions were united Into one
of the biggest tented exhibitions in the
world. Year after year the two shows
have gone on improving. As fast as
rare and costly animals were captured
in tbe juDgles of the uncivilized world
they have been forwarded by the agents
of Carl Hagenbeck to the great Ameri
can show.
But the trained wild animals which
appear in an arena with the Carl Hagenbeck-Wallace
Circus are but one fea
ture of the big show. This year's pro
gram is one of unusual interest. An
entirely new array of European artists
have been added and are appearing for
the first time in the United States.
Altogether there are more than 400
artists with the circus who appear in
the six arenas. The big show will give
an all new street parade at 10 a. m ,
preceding the first exhibition. Per
formances are given daily at 2 and 8
p. m.
mtm
Chautauqua Notes.
What is the Junior Chautauqua?
That is a question which is being often
asked these days, not only by the young
folks but by the older folks as well.
Briefly the Junior Chautauqua is a well
thought out effort to do for the children
through tbe medium of a Chautauqua
of their own, what the Senior Chau
tauqna does for the older folks. While
there is much on the Chautauqua pro
gram which is of interest to the chil
dren, it is reasonable to believe that a
program built entirely for mature
minds cannot haye its greatest appeal
to the children. Everybody realizes,
however, that in the children of a com
munity are its future citizens, and that
if the Chautauqua Is to have permanent
Influence for good it must reach these
citizens of tomorrow. So this year the
Cbautauqna management his provided
a Junior Chautauqua to be given in the
big tent each morning, when the chil
dren between six aud fourteen years
will gather for a good time A com
petent Juuior Leader, who has been
under instruction in a special school
for Chautauqua worker, will be in
charge. These leaders are young women
especially chosen because of their inter
est in children, and their tact in hand
ling and instructing them. The pro
gram embraces songs and stories,
games, hikes, drills, instruction in per
sonal hygiene, and correct habits,
nature studies, etc., an 1 is full of var
iety and interest. The children will
effect their own organization, and elect
officers. They will be coached in the
presentation of a costume play "Uncle
Sam's Experiment," which will be given
on the last day of the Chautauqua, and
which will give the parents and patrons
a chance to see just what the Junior
Chautauqua has done for the children
This play is more than a mere play.
It is full or instruction for the youth
and of interest to the older folks.
0-V08SO, July 9-15.
Mrs Etta Scott, who about two weeks
ago was raxen to me cuy aeienuon
hospital from an Owosso hotel when
it was discovered she bad a mild case
of small pox, was discharged from the
hospital Wednesday with a nurse who
attended her there. No other case has
developed.
Fourth of July at MoCurdy Park.
The program of sports aud games, for
the Fourth of July celebration at Mc
Curdy park has been completed and is
replete with events that will undoubt
edly furnish a great deal of fun and
merriment. Corunna merchants have
donated prizes to be awarded to the
winners.
Prizes will also be given to the society
having tbe largest attendance, to the
person bringing in the largest wagon
load to tbe park, to the mother with
the largest family of children, to the
largest load brought in in a Ford, to
the prettiest baby, to the largest load
in any car and to the party coming the
greatest distance.
The program includes a morning ball
game between the Maple River and
Venice teams, and the following ath
letic sports beginning at 2 o'clock p. m.
Boys' 100 yard dash prize $1. steel
casting rod, donated by Clark & Crane.
Girls' 100 yard dash prize $3, framed
picture given by W. J. Simeon, the
furniture dealer.
Fat man's 3-legged race prize $1 la
groceres donated by J. P. Ruediauelli.
Potato race prize $2 in groceries do
nated by Fred M. Kay.
Sack race prize $2 In groceries do
nated by John F. Welch
Free for all running race prize 2
in groceries donated by F. Bovee.
Longest throw, by any lady to the
lady who throws a base ball the great
est distance prize, pair of white pumps
donated by Clutterbuck & Campbell.
Fat man's race prize $5 clock do
nated by John H. Shick.
Nail driving contest for ladies prize
1, room of wall paper, donoted by Fred
J. Craig.
Wheelbarrow race prize $1.50 sack
of flour, donated by Corudna Milling
Company.
Boys' bicycle race, for 16 year old
boys prize, $2 in bread tickets, donated
by Harry Bell.
Pitching quoits, for ladies prize, $3
umbrella, donated by Geo. M. Beemer.
Wrestling contest prize, 3 hat, do
nated by W. A. McMnllen & Co.
Free for all bicycle race prize, ten
pound pail of lard, donated by A. M.
Doyle.
Smoking contest prize, $2 pipe, do
nated by Harry Turner.
Tug of war prize, box of cigars, do
nated by Dr. Walter T. Parker.
Largest society attendance to the
society having the largest attendance,
all Corunna societies barred, prize $3.50
ivory clock, donated by Uenj. C. Grant.
Largest wagon load to the owner of
a wagon bringing the largest number
of people prize, $3.50 pall of stock
food, donated by E H. Mills. '
Mother with largest family to the
mother having the largest number of
ber own childreu prize, 4.50 box of
stationery, donated by L. N. Sheardy.
Largest load with Ford to the owner
of a Ford car bringing in the largest
number of people from a distance of
live miles or more prize, ladies' or
gents' raincoat, donated by U. S. Robe
Company.
To tbe prettiest baby-prize, $3 pair
of shoes to tbe mother, donated by
Walter R. Hatch.
Largest load In any car to tbe owner
of any touring car bringing the largest
number of people prize, fire gallons of
cylinder oil, donated by J. M. Elkins.
Party oming greatest distance to
tbe party coming the greatest distance,
prize $3 chamber set, donated by Chas.
Carlaud.
Jenks-Campbell.
The marriage of Miss Nellie M.
Jenks and Francis C. Campbell was
solemnized Wednesday morning at
7:30 o'clock at St. Joseph church in
St. Johns. Following the wedding
ceremony a reception and wedding
dinner was given at the home of tho
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. N. W.
Jenks in Ovid. Among the guest3
were Miss Mable Jenks. Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Jenks and Mr. and Mrs. Floyd
lilair of this city.
The bride is well known in this
city, having been in charge of the
third grade at tho Washington
school building for the past three
years. The groom is a teacher In the
Ovid schools. Friends in this city
and vicinity extend congratulations.
