ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR
REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
VOI.UMF. on
Xr.MIIKH 22
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, JANUARY 23, 1916. -FIFTY-FOUR PAGES.
?FAIR
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
WAR RELIEF FUND
REAGHES$50,242
Committees Exceed Mark Set for
Richmond in Six-Day
Campaign.
SCENES AT HEADQUARTERS
Some Subscriptions Yet to Come
In?Committees Congratu
lated on Their Work.
For War Relief
Contribution!! wrre rrportril by the
varlouii rlinlrmrn of committer* >f?.
trrdny nn fullotvm
Mr. Thnlhlmrr 9 1,2.%0 OO
Mr. Mill 122 00
Mr. WIIIU 1,515 00
Mr. Schnnriitclitld. . . . .rt.? 100 OO
Mr. SIIIn 2,0." I IMl
Mr. KoUndny. . . .?>?.**%- 103 ?M)
Mr. Worthnm 3.037 OO
.Mr. Wtlllnm? 1K.% (HI
I)r. Howe 2IM> :t;i
Sir. Ilrnnvh K?? (Ml
Mr. AUntnnon . . lilt no
Sir* ll(Hirnd?rf litis 20
Cn?h 2?.'l no
I.nnclioiirnr Wllllnm* -Ill 17
Sprrlnl ron ? rlI>n tlonn fi.SfK) V>7
f'ontrlhutod j-r*tr nln r . . . . S l.'.SIK) S7
l're\ tonal jr reported Jt.'tl.XM III
Totnl rrrfhnl 950.2I2 -IS
Th? red paint In Ihp thermometer
the head'ju.irters of the Virginia War
Relief A Bsoelatlon. Tenth and Main
Streets, last night at 1:30 o'clock
reached the top mark. If)".000. and then
overflowed with a fplash. There was
no place for the mark. $50,24 2.4 3, the
Burn collected, which exceeds the
amount r.inv-d for by JHC.4S, and this
will be increased when Monday's mall
Is opened, the various boxes about
town are collected and belated sub
perlptlonn nre received.
When the committee s-it tlown to
luncheon yesterday afternoon at 1
o'clock, the red on the thermometer had
touched the 14 4,000 mark after an up
ward climb since Monday morning,
when the rormnittee went to work. It
1b easy?that other ^..OOO," said the
members of- the committee. "We will
have It by 0:30 o'clock to-night." And
thev did.
It was C:CD o'clock when President
Henry W. Anderson was Informed by
Morton Thalhlrr.er, who whs count
hit* up the subscriptions, that the last
contribution of $100 brought the sum
!n hand over the mark. Pefore the
member* of th^ eointnittoe had a chance
to cheer, another contribution of lino
was received. Then the members of
tti?? romrnlttee p??,.?, nt applauded vig
orously.
It If II MOM) !>oi;s
WIIAT IT STAltTS TO DO
' f::'"hrnond Is a preat city." "1 knew
t!. ? \<" would do it " "The members
of the committee certainly worked
hard" "This city can land whatever
It wants, whether it Is a Federal re
serve bank, an International League
leant, or J'O.OOO for war sufferers In
Kurope " "It is an example of what
united effort will do" These wero some
of the remarks mad-' by the members
..f the committer after hearing that
tl-? amount sought tor had been
veprhed :?r ! that I'icre was room to
r pn rc.
1'dwanl .' Will.K who i? chairman of
r,rr r\r p"* eomml?tee?r, crabbed the
rat^t brush nr.d with a masterly stroke
marked the tube from about the M."iV>0rt
mark to t!m top and then parr nn
i.Med artistic touch to denote abund
ance. excess. plenty, or anv other
fvnonom for enough. The other mem
ber's of the committee looked toward
the pile of bills >,n the table In front
of John Stewart Pryar.t nnd John Kerr
Pranch .then back to the overflowing
thermometer, and they applauded nenln.
Mr. Pryan invited the members of
the various committees to be his guests
at a dinner to be given at the Jefferson
a week from to-morrow night. "The
committee worked hard, so that wo will
h vo to celebrate. Richmond is one
of the few cities in the United States
that raised the amount In the week's
campaign that it went after." he said.
SOMH ST'IISCIII I'TIOXK
AH 10 VICT TO COMB I\
Yesterday, the final day of the or
ganized campaign, was called Dollar
Pay. Subscriptions of ono dollar wero
received from more than 1,000 con
tributors. The boxes that havn been
left at the Locomotive Works nnd other
industrial nnd manufacturing plants
will not be collected until to-morrow
night, which is pay day at most of these
places. Pledge cards, which have been
tilled out and which will be returned
later, will also bo added to the money
already In tho strong box.
All district lines were obliterated
yesterday. The solicitors were free to
po wherever they chose. The mem
bers made a thorough canvass of tho
town. Often sotno of the contributors
pave twice, as a result of this, but no
(?ne objected.
For example, one of tho workers
would go to tho phono and call up a
man. who had already been canvassod.
"Certainly," would he tho answer, "put
me down for $20."
The sum of ?15,SI>0.S7 was collected
yesterday. Tho highest amount col
lected wan on tho first day. when
{15,940 was reported. Tho totals for
the week, day by day, arc as follows:
Monday, $15,940; Tuesday, $6,689; Wed
nesday, $3,766.50; Thursday, $4,413.67;
Friday, $3,648.54, and Saturday, $15,
890.87. Tho total amount, as an
~ (Continued on Eleventh Page.)
?
ATI.ANTA-niTtMINOIIAM-NKAV ORLEANS
ASIIEVIIXK-MEMPIIIft
Thres trolrm dally. 10.-JO A. M., 6:00 P. M.,
and 11:15 P. M.. via SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
Pullman SUepln* Car* Coach**, Phon?t
mjul m
1
i
SEATTLE, WASH., January 22.?Six
persons arc believed to have been killed
and fifteen Injured early to-day when
the westbound Great Northern Cascade
limited train was struck hy an ava
lanche near Corea station, on the west
slope of the Cascade Mountains, and
two cars carried down the mountain
side. Early to-night tlio bodies of the
following had been recovered:
Uert Kirtnan, Sheridan, AVyo.
W. F. Carter, East Vancouver. B. C.
Edward Hatterinan and baby, Wenat
cliee. Wash.
A ten-vear-old son of Mr. Hatterinan
is missing, and it Is feared he is dead.
Another passenger, name not known,
has not been found. None of the In
jured passengers was seriously hutt,
| except Ernest Smith, of Spokane, a
1 small boy.
The train had been held at Corea.
i which is about 100 mlleB east of Seattle,
by a small snowsllde. When the track
i was about cleared, an avalanche broke
from the mountain, nnd caught the
dining car and day coach. They went
down the mountainside like chips. The
i diner caught tire, and was destroyed.
Reports from Cqrea say that the
avalanche struck the train In the mid
dle. The diner and day coach were
> carried away, atid a sleeper behind
! them was toppled over on its side and
(swung partly over the bank, but was
not taken down.
There is a long horseshoe curve at
! Corea. and the two cars that were
struck slid down toward the track
eighty feet below. The diner stopped
half-way to the track, where it caught
tire, and the day coach continued down
to the lower tra>~k.
> All of the Injured were taken to
Scenic, a few miles below Corea. The
others proceeded on their Journey to
Seattle.
BUSINESS MEN TO TRAIN
Hoprracn Wltlve of liuvrrniir Stnnrt In
( onfrrciicc With Other Ofllrliil*
About C'nmp of Fort Oglethorpe.
CHATTANOOGA. TENN.. January 22.
?Governor T. C. live, Adjutant-General
C. H. Itognn. Tennessee; Adjutant
General Charles 1. Martin, Kansas, and
Colonel C. A. Dempsey, representing
Governor Stuart, of Virginia, were in
Chattanooga to-day for a conference
with Colonel James l.ockett and I-leu
tenant-Coloriel H. T. Allen, of the
Eleventh United States Cavalry, regard
1 ing the business and professional men's
i training camp to be opene<l at Fort
Oglethorpe April 1.
Colonel Allen has been designated hy
General Wood as cororrcancfhnt of the
proposed training camp. The visitors
spent the major part of the day inspect
i ing Fort Oglethorpe :uul CMckamauga
I Park, the site of t?.<! summer camp.
Already a large number of business
men have signed up for the training
service.
TIDWELL BACK IN JAIL
Waive* Kinminnt ion Wlicn Arraigned
nt Hiloxl on Chnrgp of Molotinr
>1 ii n n Whltf-SIm p Act,
GUIJ'TORT, MISS., January 22.?
W. Tidwell, Sr.. alias Atwell. waived
examination when arraigned to-day 'be
fore I'nited Stales Commissioner Tyler
at IJiloxi on a charge of violating the
Mann white-slave act. am! was returned
to Jail here pending the formal order
from the Federal court for Ills removal
to Pensacola. Fla., to answer the
I charge.
: Tidwell was arrested here under 'he
I name of Atwell, but the authorit'es
!stated he admitted he Is Tidwell, and
that he Is tinder a seven-years' prison
I sentence at Greetiville. S. <'., for man
! slaughter in connection with the death
of U. E Walker, of that city, about
two years aen. The prisoner said he
was out under 55,000 bond pending de
: rision by the South Carolina Supreme
I Court on an appeal.
CONFESSES TO MURDER
Womnn, Mcllevlng Herself to He on
Iter Deathbed, Admit* Killing
.Man in 10t:i.
{Special to The Times-Dispatch 1
CAM PEN. N. .1., January 22.? Ueliev
| lng herself on h?>r deathbed, Mrs. Irene
! Pasqual confessed in the Camden IIos
. pital to-day that she killed a man in
; Philadelphia In 1913. She was tried
; and acquitted of the. murder of An
drew Jioachlttl on the plea, that shn
was defending her honor.
Mrs. I'asfiual and her husband are
both dying of gunshot wounds, inflicted
on Thursday, they said, by Francisco
Sporti, a boarder, when Mrs. Pasqual
repulsed his advances Sporti is still
at large.
MRS. MOHR RESTS
Xo Court on Saturday, and Introduc
tion of Evldenee in Her Defense
Will Ilegln This Week.
PROVIDENCE. R. I., January 22.?
' Mrs. Elizabeth F. Mohr, who lias been
on trial for two weeks with Cecil
! Brown and Ilenry Spellman, the two
I negroes whom she is accused of having
! hired to kill her husband, Dr. C. Frank
lin Mohr, last August, rested over the
Saturday court recess to-day, in the
assurance that next week would see
the beginning of the introduction of
evidence In her defense.
The testimony for the prosecution
was understood to be nearly ended
when court adjourned yesterday.
KNAPP ESTATE TO WIDOW
Inventory Shown Personal Property of
900,500, of Which $117,000 In In
Stock*.
ST. LOUIS, January 22.?Tho inven
tory of tho estate of Charles W. Knapp
showed porsonal property to the value
of $90,500, of which $67,(500 is in stocks,
when filed hero to-day In Probate
Court. Tho entire estate was willed to
th* widow.
Avalanche Carries
Cars DownMountain
Six Believed Killed and Fifteen
Injured in Snow Disaster
at Corea, IVash.
DELEGATES FAVOR
ECONOMY POLICY
Adopt Morris Resolution Limit
ing Size of General Appro
priation Bill.
MUST NOT EXCEED LAST YEAR
Resolution Will Bar Creation of
New Departments Unless Cut
Is Made Elsewhere.
!!y a vote of 4 4 to 12, tho House of
Delegates yesterday adopted a resolu
tion offered by Delegate II. ' ? Notris,
?Ir. of Lancaster, which provides that
the appropriation 1?!1! of the present
session shall not exceed In aggregate
amount tho appropriations carried by
tho budget measure of the se- don of
1911.
Unless modified by the House later
!n the session, this resolution will have
the effect of practically barring the
creation of new department!', or oth^r
| wise materially increasing the appro
priations to any ?f the present depart
ments of the State government; Con
I slderlng the drastic restriction that it
Carries, tic- measure encountered re
' markahlv little opposition.
If th<* aggregate of the forthcoming
appropriation bill is ? not allowed to
exceed the iiggregate of the bill passed
at the last session, provision for new
departments or enterprises can !>??
(made only by cutting down the allot
ment to already existing departments?
a proceeding which, it is admitted,
; would be- extremely unpopular and
' next to impossible.
MAY H.tVM KIII.CT
ox i.im.m.atiov
The restriction adopted by the House
would, therefore, affect adversely the
appropriation of $75,00' asked for in
tlie co-ordinate college bill, the market
bureau recommended by the Governor
and the Commissioner of Agriculture,
the new $5,009 office of Commissioner of
I Moral Welfare Indorsed by the Anti
Saloon League, and a dozen other en
terprises entailing expenditures not
: counterbalanced by expiring appropria
tions in the appropriation bill of 1914.
; The resolution, however, is binding
only on the House. The Senate
Finance Committee is governed by no
i such restriction. Differences between
I the House and Senate appropriation
hills resulting from this situation, in
j the event that concurrent action could
, not be obtained, would have ?o be ad
i justed by a conference committee.
| Chairman Brewer, nt tho House Ap
j piopriaiions Committee, indorsed the
Xorris resolution! Incidentally, he
i spoke pointedly of the tendency shown
I at the last session to make approprla
| liot.s with a reckless disregard of the
I Slate's ability to tak< care of them?
la practice which, lie said, rom.elled
| hirn at the last session to withdraw a
? hill looking t" the reduction of taxes,
for fear that if such a bill were passed
there would not be sutlicient revenue to
meet the appropriations.
.IOHDA X DKFKVns C.'OXDt CT OF
ii(ilsic ix *i,a.st skssiox
J Delegate Jordan took the door with a
I sharp rebuke to Mr. Iirewilr for the
, reflection placed by him on the con
duct of tlie members at the I fist session.
It was altogether unfair, he said, to
permit the impression t<> go abroad that
the last ilouy was culpably extrava
i gant. As a member of the House at
that session, he said, he desired to
J refute that charge. Moreover, he said,
i :f tlie bill introduced by Delegate
Brewer, to which reference had been
made, bad been pstsscd, the State would
| still have had enough revenue to meet
th<> authorized appropriations.
The Ilouse delved deeply yesterday
into serious business, spending the
! most fruitful da v <>r the present ses
sion. It was called to order at io
I o'clock and remained in session for
three hours. Xine bills were passed
<>n their third and final readings and
?sent to the Senate for concurrence, and
a large number of local and uncon
tested bills wim'o advanced on the cal
endar.
iri;nnixs hii.i. si imkct
OF SUA HI* IJKIIA.TI3
The sharpest li^ht of the day cen
tered about the lludgins bill, making
I it a misdemeanor to entice a farm la
; borer, hired for a specified time, to
j leave his employment without the ?? n
jsent of the employer, and to make a
person guilty of this act responsible
to the employer for unreftinded ad
vances and damages sustained thereby.
For tho passage of the bill it was
urged that it would cure an abuso
which is the cause of great embarrass
ment and monetary loss to a luge
number of farmers who, after hiring
a man for a specified time, are loft in
, the lurch when such employee is en
ticed to other fields l?v the offer of
higher wages.
Delegates Cordon, of "Louisa, and
Myers, of Ulchmond, attacked the bill
as class legislation of the worst char
acter. The bill, they pointed out, un
dertook to punish a third disinterested
person for offering work to a man at
a greater wage than he was earning
when such a man had already con
tracted to work ior another?a princi
ple that Is monstrous, they said, since
it strikes at the heart of the economic
law of supply and demand and attempts
by legislation to impose an artificial
I barrier between an employee on a
farm and the avenue to advancement.
Liiykhs m:\ds fioiit
A(? A 1XST ITS ADOPTION
"It is wrong to impose on a third
person tho blame for tho violation of
a contract to which he is not a party,"
declared Delegate Myers. "The con
tract Is between the farmer and tho
laborer, and when It Is broken one or
other party is liable?not the third
person who has made the laborer an
offer of higher wages. While 1 know
that a few farmers in some sections
of the. .Stato have suffered from tho
abuses which this bill undertakes to
(Oontlnuod. on Fourth Pago.)
V . ! ?
i ?
Situation Remains Clouded, in
View of Conflicting Statements
Trom Rival Sources.
LITTLE FIGHTING ANYWHERE
Russians Apparently Again Cease
for Time Attacks on
Austrians.
On none of the major fronts of the
flc-id of \v:ir In Europe is notable mili
tary operations In progress, so far as
official reports show. Not even
from little Montenegro have thorn come
.addit ional reports of fighting, follow,
inn the indirect advices on Friday, de
claring that hostilities had been re
sumed after rejection of peaee terms
offered by Austria.
The Montenegrin situation remains
somewhat clouded, in view of the con
flirting statements from Teutonic and
| entente allied quarters. Vienna de
clares that the Montenegrins are pro
ceeding with the laying down of their
arms, as was agreed upon, but that
the difficulties of communication, to-'
gcther with other factors, are making
tli'- process a slow one. On the other'
hand, there come reported denials from
-Montenegrin sources that th'- Monte
negrins have capitulated, one official
statement from Rome even declaring
that no negotiations preliminary to
peaee with Austria were ever entered
into.
i From the northern front, in Russia
to Bessarabia, there are no changes
in positions of the various forces, ac- I
cording to the official reports. Indica
tions are that the Russians have again
, (eased, for a time at least, their at
tacks on the Austrians near the south- |
ern end of the line, while Berlin men
; tlons only artillery activity in sectors :
where German troops are holding the
front. Even the artillery duels which
are reported near Sinorcon and in the
vicinity of Dvin.sk, however, are mani- j
festatlons of activity, such as have not
been reported along tl.e Russian front
for some time by the German War
Office.
I'r.IMOl) or COMI'AH.VTIVK
< AI.M ON WESTERN* KHOXT
The Franco-Belgian front is under-;
going; ii period of comparative calm.1
which probably is to be explained hy
the seasonal conditions. There are
frequent outbreaks by the artillery on
both sides, however, several such be-1
ing mentioned In the current official
' statements, Berlin mentioning the
, shelling of German positions and vil
lages behind the lines between the;
Moselle and the Vosges, while Paris
apparently describes the same series of
artillery operations as directed against'
provision trains and groups of hostile
t roops
The defeat of the Turks by the Rus-'
sian army of the Caucasus, officially re
ported by Petrograd. is commented upon
in a news dispatch from the Russian
capital as an event looked upon aaj
important by the military authorities
there, as It caused the retirement of
the Turkish forces to Erzerum. which
is considered endangered hy the Rus-i
sian success. It is even held that the
I result may be favorable to the British
operations in Mesopotamia, us the Turks
j may have to withdraw forces thence
? to aid In the defense of Krzerum, one
!ef the important Turkish centers of
j defense in this rr irion.
i
DENIM, MV MO\TENK?;HO
<"?' t'AIMTfl.ATlOX ,
ROME, January 2! (vta Paris, do-;
! ,a.ved).- The Montenegrin consulate
, here Issued the following note to-night: '
"The oflieiriI representative of Mon-j
tenegro declares that, contrary to
; statements published |n the press.
| there have never been either capittila- i
j tlon or negotiations preliminary to i
peace with Austria "?
| Al'STRIA A \ VOI NCI'S DEI.AY
i\ nisAititivi; Montenegrins
, BERLIN'. January 22 (by wireless to !
Sayvilb )?The .\ustro-flungarlan of
ficial press bureau. ^sa.vs the Overseas
News Agency, "announces that the lay
ing down of arms as agreed upon by
| the Montenegrin government is meet
j ing with difficulties, and that the gen
i oral disarming of the Montenegrins will
, be delayed, this being due principally
to the long distances over which the
j soldiers have p. travel and to the bad j
I cotnmunlcat ions.
I "The press bureau also declares that !
I the delay is due. in part, to the na
| tional peculiarities of the Montenegrin
people, who. ignoring the general sit
uation. do not yet know whether they
| are expected by their government to
continue the war on their own account.
"The A list ro-11 ?! ngarian government,
the press bureau adds, appreciating
these circumstances, has granted time
to tiie Mont, negrin government, so
that it may get into communication
with the reluctant part of the popula
tion in order to appease it and bring
'about a systematic submission.
"I .a test reports from the Austro
IBulgarian puss bureau state that the
negotiations regarding tfo places
where the .Montenegrins shall lay down '
their arms will lie disclosed within a !
few hours; also that an agreement will
lie reached regarding the locations
where they will l?c provided with food
and housed. ,
"All this, it is explained, will tako
a certain amount of time, because of
the dill lenity of communication, which
will also iniiuencc to some degree the
general disposition of the population.
"Ir is further reported that King
Nicholas, in a manifesto to his people,
urges the citizens of Cctinje to receive
tho army of Emperor Francis Joseph
as If Its arrival wero an occasion for
popular rejoicing, as this Is in tho In
terests of the country and the wish
of the King.
"The documents regarding the capi
tulation, adds the press bureau, were
signed by all tho Montenegrin min
isters. and the foreign reports as to
tho interruption of tho peace negotia
(Contlnuod on Sixth^Paffo) '
FAVORS UNIVERSAL
National Security League Thinks
Adequate Defense Ultimately
Depends on This Step.
URGES BIGGER ARMY AND NAVY
Steps Seeking to Co-Ordinate
Work of Different Preparedness
Organizations Indorsed.
WASHINGTON. January -- -An In
dorsemont of Secretary Garrison s ef
forts toward enlargement of the na
tion's military forces was. voted to-day
by the National Security League. with
the reservations that the regular mo
bllo army should he even greater than
that contemplated in the War Depart -
inent plan, and that adequate national
dofenpo would depend ultimately upon
"universal obligatory military traln'ng
and service." A greater building p-o
pram for the navy than has been out
lined l.v the. Navy Depart 11?i.t was
urged as essential In another reso'u
11 on adoptrd.
Steps t<> co-ordinate the worte *?? the
various organizations seeking grea'er
armament were indorsed. It was un
derstood to-night that definite plans
had been made for a general consolida
tion of such organisation^ In a defuse
league, with Robert Bacon, former Sec
retary of State, as its president be
sides the National Security League. s.?
cities expecteu to enter the new t?r^v-:n
izatlon Include the Navy League. the
Army league, the American Defense
Society, the Aero Club of America and
many others which have Joined in the
movement for preparedness.
Adoption of the; resolutions followed
Indorsement of Secretary CJarrlson s
program as a first sound step toward
adequate preparedness by Kllhu Root
and lienry L. Stinisor. both former Sec
retaries of War In Republican adminis
trations. At a banquet to-night c >n
rinding the three-day meeting of the
league, George W. Wickersham. Attor
ney-General In President Taft's Cabinet,
advocated universal military serv.ee
and Immediate repeal of the law tinder
which the National Guard would t>e
called Into service in advance vol
unteers.
I.OIXitO MAKKS SIM-: 101 II
OX "AMKUIC'A'S II A.Mi Kit
Other speakers at the banquet were
Serator Lodge, of Massachusetts, rank
ing Republican member of the Vor
elgn Relations Committee, who dis
cussed "America's danger." and George
Haven Putnam, of New \ork.
The set of resolutions, drafted bv a
committee of which I.uke F.. Wright,
former Secretary of War, was cha.r
man. were adopted almost unanimously.
Thev follow:
??That the National Security League
recommends the authorization by Con
fess of a council of national defense
as set forth in House bill No. 1S33 of
the sixty-third Congress, commonly
known as the Hobson bill, for tlio pur
pose of securing more harmonious co
operation between the executive und
legislative branches of the govern
ment with respect to the national de
fenses. X
"That the National Security League
recommends the establishment of a
navy adequate to conserve the national
interest In conformity with the fol
lowing recommendations: that the per
sonnel of the navy be Increased in con
formity with tho requirements of the
licet as interpreted by the general
board of the navy; that there be est it>
lislied for the navy a general staff, sttnt
Hr to the general staff of the army, as
is customary In all other navies of the
world, and that the National Security
League indorses the program of July
30 l'jir.. of the general board of tho
navy und urges Its immediate adoption,
by Congress. j
"That a fundamental factor in the
problems of preparedness should be
such Intensive mobilization of tho pro
ductive. Industrial and commercial
forces of the United States as would
insure in timo of war the edntributlon
of their fullest resources at a restricted j
proitt, to be regulated by the govern-j
ment. ,
"That In view of the fact that the:
great Interest in national defense)
throughout the country has created a
number of local and national organiza
tions aiming to Increase the elliciency
of our military and naval service, the
National Security League lmmediatel.\
endeavor to avtld the overlapping of
the effort and energy of these organiza
tions by seeking effective means of uni
fying and co-ordinating their actl\l-(
ties" ?
OV1.Y ONK VO'I'K IS < AST
AGAINST IIKSOI.I'TION |
Tlie only voio against tlie resolution I
advocating universal military service'
was cast by William A. Ketcliatn. of
Indianapolis, who said he represented;
the Governor of Indiana j
Mr. Wickersham. In his address to
night. emphasized the necessity of wide,
publicity, saying he saw no hope t>f a'
change in the policy of the nation
"until the weakness and unfairness of;
our traditional system Is more sharply j
brought homo to our people."
"At the threshold of consideration or
national defense." he said, "must be'
an Inquiry Into tho duty of citizens,
to render military service to the conn-!
try In times of peace as well as war.
In no clear way could wo more effec
tively rhl the nation of the Incubus of
our accursed system of bounties und
pensions than by the establishment and
maintenance of a system of universal
military service.
"Tho practical question now pre
sented to the American people is not
the Immediate adoption of auch sys
tem. Otir military and naval authori
ties, both civil and military, with the
(Continued on Eleventh Page.)
KKIXTCRO MAItni OKAS KAWKS
vlft bOtJ III)' UN ItAIIAVAY from Feb. 2S to
March New Orleans. $26.76 round trip;
Mobile and Penimcola, $23.3fi. Stopovera.
LonK limit. Kxcell?nt Servlca. Offic* D07
W. Main at, Phona, XIadlaon ST3.
I
l or Preparedness
I.I KI-: K. \\ It I (? I IT.
Former Sccrctiirj' of War, I'lisilrntnn of
( oiiiml I |?-r U liicli Framed It oMolii tloiiN
Adopted Iiv Niillounl Sci'iiril.i I.i'iikiif.
SEPARATE PEftCE OFFER "
Will Include Proposal to 1'ay for All
Property Damage ('anscil hy
(?eriiian (>ccu pat ion.
KUMOK I IK A HI) IV WASHINGTON
Question of Voluntarily Withdraw
ing From All Occupied Portions
Now Being <'arefully Considered
1?.V Official Circles in Berlin.
[Special to Tlje Times-Dispatch.1
WASHINGTON, D. C.. January 'J. ??
Information has been rccctveil In dip
lomatic Circles in Washington that
Germany is considering making l?? ? l
glum a proposal of separate peace.
Tho evacuation of all I'.ol^liin territory
would follow.
It is understood that the proposal,
which will ln> made to King Albert by
the military governor of Belgium. will
Include an otTer to pay for the property
damage caused hy the (lerman occupa
tion.
Officials In close touch with the Ger
man embassy expressed the opinion to
day that the offer, if made, probably
would be aceeptt'il. Belgium is riot one
of the signatories to the document to
which Sir ICdward Grey obtained the
signatures of the French and Russian
and later the Italian governments, and
which binds those nations not to con
clude n separate peace. The restora
tion of Belgium would leave the allies
no room for protest, in the opinion of
this nutliority. Inasmuch as it has boon
tbls one point on which the allies have
been most insistent as a condition of
peace.
It can bo stated authoritatively that
the question of voluntarily withdraw
ing from all the occupied portions of
Belgium?on the one condition that
Belgium first consent to conclude a
separate peace villi the central em
pires?i.s now being carefully consid
ered in official circles in Berlin.
Aiitt \ M;i;Mi:vr woi m> a com is
TO A OVA NTAIJK OF <iKlUIANY
It i." pointed out. that the conclusion
of such an arrangement would accrue
to the advantage of Germany. for the
following reasons:
I. The conclusion of a separate peace
with Germany would automatically di
vorce Belgium from the oilier allies.
The occupation by any of the al
lies of any part of Belgian territory
would become a violation of neutrality
precisely comparable with the much
11noted violation of neutrality of which
Germany has been declared gullty
;i. For the allies to commit such a
breach of neutrality after having used
it as an excuse for making war on
Germany is too inconsistent to be pos- >
s i bl e
4. "With i mum nit \ from attack from I
that portion of her frontier facing Bel- '
glum, Germany would have for dis
posal elsewhere the vast army now ac
tually In ]i,luiii and in the trenches]
oil the western portion of the battle
line.
r>. Inasmuch as Germany has never
at any tinib had any intention of oc
cupying Belgium permanently, her
withdrawal now. instead of at tlie end
of the war. would not fail to be of
great advantage?not only becausii of
the accompanying release of troops. i?ut
because of the world approval with '
which such a step would be met.
t'.. Ho far as paying tile cost of the,
rehabilitation of Belgium is concerned,
the amount Involved is very much less
than is popularly supposed, l>v far the j
greatest financial loss sustained by the |
Belgians having been due to the Brit
ish sea blockade, which lias prevented I
all Belgian industrial activity,
MAPH niMHTION II \ 1*01*10
OF HIS OFF Kit IXIJ Sl,!t\l<i:s
Announcement that the restoration ?f
Belgium is b. lug considered by Ger
many followed the disclosure that the
Pope has recently ma do such action a
condition of his offering his good offices
for tho re-establishment of peace, j
Curiously enough, this statement was
forthcoming from the British embassy,
which Issued tho following memo
randum:
"A distinguished Belgian Jesuit.
Father Benusse, lately received by 'tie;
Holy Father, has given the following
account of his audience to i Butch'
chaplain in tho Belgian army on his!
retufn:
"Tho Pope told mo?and told mo to
repeal it along tho trenches to men and
to officers, And even to tho King him
self that lie considers Belgium lias
tho right to complete reparation front'
Germany, and that ho will never con-l
sent to offer Ills good othce.s for Uiei
re-establishment of peace unless Bel-j
(Continued on^lxth-Page.) "
f
TO BE EXECUTED
FOR KILLING AKERS
Bernardo and FredericoPu
ran Confess to Shoot
ing of American.
SENTENCED TO DEATH
BEFORE FIRING SQUAD
Murdered Man and Companion
Had Crossed Border to Re
cover Stolen Cattle.
SIKVIVOK TKM.S OF SLAYING
.Ina 10/ Commandant Ordoi-s Arms Col*
levnil to Prevent Outbreak
Against I*. S. Citi/ens.
KL PASO, TKXAS, January 22.--Ber
nardo an'l Frederico Ditran. Mexican
cattle thieves, have confessed to tho
killing of ['.ort Akors, nn American, yes
terday at .San T.oren/.o. Chihuahua, just
below tlio boundary lino, and will lio
executed to-morrow morning, accord
ing to an announcement made to-night
by Andreas Carcia. .Mexican consul
here. (
"The Durans confessed th"ir crime.
\v? ! .? sentenced to death to-day, and
a firing squad will execute the pen
alty." said Mr. Onreia.
Alters was stint and killed by Mexi
cans yesterday in ar San Lorenzo, Ohl
huahua. a few miles south of the bor
der. whither he had pone with Douglas
Downs, another American, and Juan
itarrlos. a Mexican detective, to re
cover some stobn cattle. Downs es
caped and brought news of Akers's
death to the border. Akers's body was
brought here to-day.
OKItKItS ??'I K'I'IIKIt SKAllfll
!?*? HI AH At S A XI) AM M I.MTIOX
General CSavlra." commandant at
Juarez. has issued an order providing
for a further search of civilian homes
for arms and ammunition, in order, ha
said, to prevent any outbreak against
Americans. Ten thousand arms of vari
ous soils already have been collected,
It was said.
A Cniled States provost guard opened
fire to-day upon Mexican soldiers who,
while rounding up horses, crossed tho
in'crnational boundary near here. Tho
guard, 1'rlvate Harrison, Company C.
Sixteenth Infantry, first ordered tho
Mexicans to return to their own sido-'
of the line. When one refused. Har
rison fired. Tho Mexican lied.
Karller in the day customs officials Z
fired in the direction of several Mexi
cans who were attempting to smuggle
rags from Juarez Into Kl Paso. Tho
Importation of rags int<? the United
States has been forbidden by tho health
authorities, fearing they may spread
the typhus epidemic, which is prevalent
In parts of Mexico.
TttXSK HOltnUlt MTIWTIOV
nr.coMKS .\<;<;itavated
? The tense situation hero produced by
the Santa Vsabel massacre to-day was
aggravated when details of the killing
of Alters became known.
With a companion, Douglas Downs,
and a Mexican police official. Alters
sought to recover cattlo stolen last
Monday from Mrs. Murphy, a neigh
bor, at Vsleta. when Duran, with hi*
brother, Frederico. opened lire from tho
roof of their house.
(1 en era 1 (>abriel tlavira. commandant
at Juarez, gave out a statement which,
he said, covered the circumstances of
tho light as related to him by Bernardo
I Mir.in and bis brother and by a srjuad
of i.'arranza soldiers who were near the
scene. Heneral 1 lavira declared that
Duran claimed self-defense. The gen
eral said that, if found guilty, tho
Durans would receive prompt punish
ment.
Alters was shot In the back while
riding a horse that also curried Downs.
Downs reached Vsleta last night seieial
hours after tho shooting and reported
that the Duran brothers, one of whom
is said to hive served a term In the
State penitentiary of .Yew Mexico, had
bee n running American cattle across
the border for tho last few weeks.
I hey were said to have been mutilated
in various ways to prevent identld'-a
t ion.
Downs said they were trying to get
away from the Duran house when tpey
were fired on. and that Duran followed
them on a horse for several miles be
fore Akors Tell. Downs said he dropped
off tho horse and hid In tho hrush.
Duran, who was found leading tho
horse, declared he did not know tho
nun were Americans until he examined
the body of Alters. Mrs. Alters was
notified of the death c*. e.er husband by
I >0 w n s.
m:kk to i'iievk.vt
IMOTOI S Dl'MIDN'STItATIO.N'H
Activities weie begun to-day In Ml
I'aso among those interested in pre
venting a repetition of tho riotous
demonstrations that followed tiio mas
sacre of foreigners at Santa Ysabel on
January 10. Civilian anil military au
thorities were early on the alert, and
plans were laid to impress tho pcoplo
with the necessity of remaining calm.
< lone? a I tiavira's statement wa? a;i
follows:
1 lireo days ago two Americans ap
peared at the office of the Mayor and
requested the aid of a police officer
to look for six or seven cows that had
been stolen from them. (>no officer of
the secret service wax furnished.
About :i o'clock Friday afternoon
they Went toward tho place named San
Lorenzo, where they learned some cows
were hidden.
"The Americans went to tho house ,
and Knocked. one of the Durans I
answering._ Ho asked what they J
wanted. They told him they wanted 'jj
to see the cows. Duran r.^uested J
them to show their authority.
"The Mexican officer said ho did not 4
havo an order for search, hut ahow*t 3
hla star. Duran then said h* woul*
iidSS
