?
One Cent
AS first announced January I, 191b, The Herald
guarantees full money > worth to the purrhaver*
of article? advertised in the di*-?pia\ column? of thu
paper by any Uashmgtor merJian!
iCircolor Fttrmtgked Ufo. Request).
NO. 3386.
WEATHER: FAIR, COLDER.
WASHINGTON. D. C. SUNDAY, JANUARY 23. 1916.
ONE CENT.
la ?? ..??.? ?..? ?s?? ?..?.?, ?.?..rWaii
UtlKHtlk thu . ttlTI
CITIZENS HEAR
SCHOOL CHANGE
PLAN RIDDLED
_
Blair and Oyster Fire Heavy
Artillery at District Com
missioners' Proposal.
NO FRICTION, HE SAYS
Head of Education Board De
clares Present System Can
not Be Improved.
OYSTEK CALLS PLAN "SHABBY"
Deplores Attempt of Political Officers
"to Get Their Grasping Hands
on School System/*
Henry P. Blair, president of the Board
of Education, denied before the Federa
tion of Citisene' Associations laat night
that any grave differences of opinion have
?dated between the Board of Education
?nd the Commissioners ln the administra
tion of the scho^' system, wtiieh was
given by the Commissioners as one rea
son why they should be handed full con
trol of the schools
"Aa fir as the finances have been con
cerned, as far as the accuracy of school
purchases is concerned, there Is absolute
ly ?? dlfterence between the Commission
ers and the Board of Education that
amounts to a snap,'* said Mr. Blair. "We
ttm't feel hurt when the Commissioners
overrule u-s in naming a school.
"m\\ have our view? on such matter?,
but if the naming of one or two schools
Is sufficient reason for a complete change
in your school s:stein?for it is your ?ys
U-ni. not mine?then the Commissioners'
argument ?? a good one. If that isn't Buf
fici' nt reason, then their argument is
aot a good one, for thst ii practically the
Oi/v diff?rer.ce that exista"
Mr. B.&ir explained in detail the
present system of expending school ap
propriations to show that those expert
dHorsw Are as closely safeguarded as
gre any of the other expenditure? of
the ?.?istrict government. "And," he ?
went on, "If ti>ere Is any chance for '?
a mistake in ' that system, then the ;
same chance exista for all the expendi
tures authorised by the Commissioners ?
themselves."
Can't Klad Better Symtmm.
"I don't know where you can find a '
belter st I.ool system anywhere than1
V..e present one," Mr. Blair continued, j
**lf you run set a board of education
and ? board of Commissioners who are .
* illing to co-operate in seeking the ,
best welfare of the child, for. after all.
that is the only thing to be sought
for.
"I have difficulty in discussing the
proposed change, I will frankly state,
gentlemen, for I do not yet know what
tt is. '
Mr. Blair then held up to ridicule the
action of the Commissioners tn amend
ing their ideas three times before Con
gre*.* within a month. Referring to
the concession of Commissioner New
man before the educational subcom
mittee of the House District Commit
tee, when he Inserted Into the original
proposal a clause making It necessary
to select as the director of education
a man with professional qualities for
the position. Mr. Blair said:
"Think of it, gentlemen, can you con
?eiv? a body capable of appointing any
body anywhere inc'uding in its law a
clause compiling them to name as
?? hoolmaster a man fit.ed to fill the poet
ilo? r
COXTINLED ON PAGE TWO
Subs Try to Kill
Fleeing Citizens
U. S. Minister to Serbia 5avs
1,000 Albanian Children
Await Rescue.
BraerteJ Cable to Tb? Weshtaft/m Herekl?
Rom?, Jan. ?.?Oeaorge Lorlllard. Amer
ican Minister to Serrala, arrived ln Rnme
thla morning from Albania. He left the
Albanian coast on Tuesday.
"Condition? in Albania are frightful,"
?aid Mr. Loillard. "Thousand? are starv
lng in the country, where they have been
left behind on the roadsides in the gen
eral axodus In the path of the advancing
Anatre- Bulgarians.
' "On Mondar, the day before I sailed,
I helped Mt? WOmen and children em
bark osi Italian steamers at San Giovanni
do tdadu? I beard later that Austrian
submarines tried to torpedo these ships.
The torpedo?? were flred ?rlthout warn
ing, but they missed their targets.
"Left on the beach when theae ?hip?
?teamed out of the harbor were fully
1.0M children between the ages of 14 and
M. Tbey were housed in tents to await
th? arrival of otber ships. The people
wer? afraid these children would fall int?.
the hands of the Austrian? and Bul
garians, a? the arrival of the invading
irmy was Imminent.
K'eridri "F.aat tea?!" Reaort? Rearke?
By ? V * KlortrJ? Special."
Atlanti, ?'?>???. Lin?, ? G, p. m. dally. ,
iritBJ daily. ;** ?. ?. Ava. nw.-A.dv.
3,373 Condemned to
Death by Austrians
Scmciai Cable to Tb? Waetaingtea Herald, f
Paris, Jan. 22.?Since the
beginning of the war 3,373
persons have been condemned
to death in Austria-Hungary,
according So Vienna newspa
pers. The victims are divided
as follows:
Of Itafian origin?In
Trieste, 200; Fiume, 60; Is
tria. 90 ; Trentino. 330.
Of Slav origin?In Dalma
tia, 118; Moravia, 2*45; Bos
nia and Herzegovina, ?900;
Bohemia, 720; Galicia, 480;
Bukowina, 330.
Hundreds of women are
included in the list
SCHOOLS' COST
TO BE PROBED
House Member Seeks to
Know Why District System
Is So Expensive.
WILL VISIT MANY BUILDINGS
TO LEARN SYSTEM'S DETAIL
District Committee May Be Called
Upon to Thoroughly Investigate
Local Educational Methods.
By JOSEPH P. aUnrOI.
An investigation of the entire school
system of the District with a ?view to
explaining the high per capita coat of
the public school? here probably will be
undertaken by Ihe Subcommittee on
Education ot th? House District Com
mittee.
This became known yesterday whan a
member ot the subcommittee announced
he would spend some time familiarising
himself with the details and working?
of tbe local scho?al system, with a view
to ttixntmms ?beiher rltfit?grt might
be ?uggeated. TW? member is a former
school teacher and a veteran of public
school administration.
The cost per captta of population for
public education here is in the neighbor
hood of tt. according to members of the
District Committee.
"I think the District Committee or a
subcommittee may be called upon to look
Into this high cost of public education,"
? declared a member of the Stnfcommlttee
on Education yesterday. "Personally, I
Intend to visit a number of the schools,
watch the methods of teaching as well
as I may. and familiarize myself with
the administration of the school system
with a view to discovering the reasons
for the high cost per capita expense In
volved.
"If I am not satisfied with such prog
ress as I can make. I probably will seek
the aid of the committee."
This member declared at the outset
that he was not looking for nor expect
ing to unearth corruption or grogs ex
travagance in any particular quarter.
He rather expects to find a failure to
take advantage of the advances In public
education and the consequent economie?.
Ancona Parleys
Will Be Resumed
Expected U. S. Will Regard
As Satisfactory Austria's
Disavowal of Sinking.
State Department officials said yester
day that negotiations with Austria-Hun
gary for a settlement of the Ancona
case, broken off by the Persia sinking,
wiil be resumed at once.
This decision was reached after re
ceipt of unofficial advices from Vienna
that Ambassador Penfleld was forward
ing to Washington a note In which the
Austro-Hungarlan government disclaims
all responsibility for the Persia sinking.
The Penfleld cable had not reached the
department lMt night, but the unofficial
forecasts of its contents were accepted
as reliable.
Officials admitted that Austria's <tts
r-lalmer of responsibility following simi
lar action by the German government
some days ago left the Unted 8lates in
a position where It c-ould do nothing fur
ther toward establishing responsibility
for the Persia sinking until affidavits of
survivors and crew are received.
The reply of the l'nited States govern
ment in the Ancona case. It ls expected.
j will accept as satisfactory the Austrian
governments disavowal and the expla
nation that the lommnnder of the sub
marine ha? been punlsh??d and will sug
gest that the amount of Indemnity to be
paid for American who lost their live?
or property when the Ancona sank shall
be fixed by diplomatic negotiation.
Cave-in Killt Boyg.
Ut Holly, K. J.. j?,,. ?.-Crushed
under a huge block of sandstone and
several tons of earth that caved In upon
them while they were playing in a dug
out this afternoon. Howard Powell and
Ernest Street were killed and Bertram
sellers and Russell street were so badly
ujared tbat that may aot racorar.
CONGRESS WANTS
VOTES, NOT WAR
PLANSJE SAYS
Senator Lodge Tells Secur
ity League Reason Why
Country Is Unprepared.
SCORES NAVAL BODIES
Back Bay 'Member Asserts
Committees Involved in
Munitions Squabble.
WEST WILL HEAR SPEAKERS
Organization Plans Active Fight in
Stronghold of Pacifist??Mitchel
Urges Summer Camps.
? "Just as long a? the members of Con
gress think there are more votes to be
had In making appropriation for roads,
river? and harbors, and buildings, than
there ls in making appropriations to
strengthen the defenses of the country,
Just so long will tbey continue to make
appropriation for roads, river and har
bors and building?."
This assertion wa? made by Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge In a speech con
demning the present military condition
of the United States, and It? cause?,
at the closing banquet of the National
Security League at the New Willard lait
night
lllnn??-? Mesasen o( Cenares?.
"The blame for this condition lies at
the door of Congress," lie said, "and 1
am ready to take my blame with the
rest. The gentlemen ln Congress who
are now standing in the way of national
defense had better look out or a party
will arise that will carry national de
fense through.
Referring to the navy, of which sen
ate committee ha la a member. Senator
Lodge said the re-cant report of Admiral
Fletcher, which exponed the many ma
terial weaknesses, ?peaks for Itaelt. H?
?cored both ths Htm-e and Senate naval
committees, which, he said, instesd of
building fleet* to protect th? United
.-*.*',.??. were busily engaged ln discussing
the burning question of building muni
tion riants to keep some Amtsrican pri
vate industry from making a few dol
lars. Continuing he said:
"Two battelsMps were authorized by
Congress on March 13, 1916. Secretary
Daniels awarded them to the New York
navy yards and the Mare Island Navy
Tard. The keel of the vessel to be laid
at New York will not b? put down
until eighteenth months after it was
authorized. The keel of the other, ?can
not be laid until a ship now on It can
be launched and Congress appropriates
money to lengthen the ?ays. The first
vessel will not be completed until four
and a half years after lt was authorized
and nobody knows when the other will be
completed."
Lestae Is United.
"There Is no dlfllcutly ln knowing the
facts of the army, as we have a Secre
tary of War/who tells ua the facts. He
has laid his cards on the table. He has
told us that we have no army sufficient
to defend the United States."
The banquet exemplified the unamlty of
spirit which permeate the organization.
As has been the topic of the delibera
tions throughout the meetings, "Pre
paredness" was the theme of the
speakers.
Maj. Oeorge H. P'Jtnam. of New York,
aasailed the lack of consistency on the
part of the pacifists. Under this theory,
he said, the troublesome thing that ls
CONTINUED ON PAGB TWO.
Yuma Flooded -as
Levee Gives Way
Hundreds Left Homeless.
Buildings Swept Away. .
Colorado River High.
Special to Itie Waahingtno Her*!.].
Yuma. Ari*., Jan. 22.?Yuma is under
from two to ?ix feet of water tonight
as the result of th* breaking of the
leve of the Colorado River and the over
flow of the Gil? River to the east of
Yuma today. A number of old buildings
have been crumbled by the flood.
With the breaking of the levee, a wall
of water rushed down on the ctty, caus
ing a panic. While trying to calm the
excited residents. Mayor Charles C.
Moore was stricken by an attack of
heart failure and di<pd eoon afterwards.
One unknown man ls reported to have
been drowned in the rushing water?.
Hundreds of persons are homeless. Six
feet of water Is standing in the San
Gunetti store, the largest mercantile
establishment in the city. The plant of
the Morning Sun was washed away, and
the city la temporarily without a news
paper.
The Colorado River la the highest on
record. The levee on the California ?tde
of the river has given way and It ls
expected that great damage will be done
to the great Irrigation system of the
0*UfornU ?Development Caxnpaoj.
Youth Is Killed When Auto
Is Wrecked Against Tree
J. R. Peed Dies in Emergency Hospital from Injuries Re
ceived in Automobile Wreck?Five Others
in Party Escape.
John R. Peed. 23, 1238 Irving ?treet
northwest, one of an automobile party of
sir, died In Emergency Hospital last night
from injuries received when the automo
bile was wrecked early yesterday. A
coroner's Inquest into the circumstance?
of the death will be conducted early thla
week.
John O. Chestnut, S6, X?5T Holme;?! piece
northwest, manager of the Indiana Floor
ing Company. 301 ? street northwest,
said to be the driver of the automobile. Is
held by police pendine, the coroner's in
vestigation. Samuel Tucker, 23, 133? Gi
rard atreet northwest, is held as a United
States witness ln the case.
Three other young men. whose Identity
police were unable to learn from Chest
nut and Tucker, police say, were mem
ber? of the automobile party, but (led
when the car waa wrecked. Chestnut
and Tucker, police add. declare they do
not know who the three najsslng com
panions were.
The accident occurred ln New Jersf-y
avenue, between ? end L. streets. Police
?ay the car was speeding, and have so
charged Chestnut, alleged driver. The
automobile ?wfrved, ran over the curb
ing and struck a tree. The machine had
but two seats, two of the riders standing
on the running board. One of these was
Peed, who was thrown with great vio
lence from the machine when It struck
the tree. He was the only one injured.
Chestnut and Tucker carried Peed into
the home of William Scott, 1932 New Jer
?ey avenu?, near the scene of the acci
dent, from which he was transferred to
Emergency Hospital. The accident oc
curred about 2 o'clock yesterday morn
ing. Peed died at 9 o'clock last night.
No bones were broken, nor was he se
riously bruised, it is believed he died
from shock and probable internal In
juries.
Peed and Tucker, it seems, according
to police, were returning from accom
panying two girl friends home from a
party given at Tucker's home. They met
Chestnut, who was with three young
friend?. In hl? automobile, police say. The
fatal accident happened about two hours
after they met.
Peed was employed in the ticket office
at Union station.
Avalanche of Snow Sweeps
Train Over Precipice Edge
Five Persons Killed and Five Seriously Injured When Cars
Are Pushed Over Embankment to Ground Below, Fall
of Seventy-five Feet?Dining Car Catches Fire.
Bpeci&l to Tb? VTtuliingtoo He?id.
Seattle. Jan. 22.?Crashing down upon
the slowly moving westbound Cascade
limited train, of the Great Northern Rail
way, this morning near the little town of
Corea, an avalanche of thousand?* of tons
of snow and ic*> almost completely wreck
ed the train and catapulted two of the
coaches over an embankment to the
ground below, a aheer fall of seventy-live
Five persons are known to have been
killed; their bodies, as yet unidentified,
having been recovered. Five others were
seriously, though not fatally, injured.
Corea is about fifteen mllfs east of
her*. The accident occurred on a ?weep
ing horseshoe curve, the ill-fated train
being on the upper track and taking the
turn. The avalanche strack the train
about midcenter, tearing the diner and
coach bodily from their couplings, and
bowling them over the bank to the other
MONTENEGRINS
DEFEAT ENEMY
Repulse Meets Austrian At
tack at Berans, Says
Paris Legation.
Special Cable to The \Vasbin?rU)ai Herald.
Paris, Jan. B.?The Montenegrins, under
Gen. Martlnovit'-h, have repulsed the,Aus
trtans In severe fighting at Berane. on
the list River, ae^ordlng to advices from
San Giovanni diMedua.
These reports declare Oen. Martinovitch
defeated an attempt to encircle his right
wing, cutting off his rettrat upon Scutari,
and annihilated an Austrian detachment
The King has left Montenegro to join
his Queen in her exile In France. Prior
to doing so, he handed oarer the supreme
command of his troope to Gen. Martino
vitch.
It Is reported here that Gen. Martino
vitch has ordered the complete evacuation
of Montenegrin territory and will reas
semble his troops with the Albanians, un
der Essad Pasha, for a stand against
the Austrians at Scutari.
Kin? I*n Route to Ljona.
An official report Issued by the Monte
negrin legation here tonight says:
"King Nicholas arrived at Brindisi yes
terday, accompanied by Prince Peter.
His majesty and the prince are en route
to Lyon?, where they will Join the Queen
and princesses.
"Prince Mirko remains In Montenegro
with three members of the government to
reorganize the defenses and withdraw
the army which, under the command of
Gen. Martinovitch. continues the strug
ge'?
"Aided by the allies, the Montenegrin
army hopes to participate In the protec
tion of Albania, using Scutari aa a base."
RUSSIANS INVEST ???S??G?.
tsar?? Troop? Said to Have Entered
"Bulwark of Armenia."
London, Jan. 22.?The Ruaaian forces In
the Caucasus have Inveated Erierum. the
'bulwark of Turkish Armenia." Into
which the routed Ottoman army has fled,
says a Central News dispatch from Petro.
grad.
The Russian official statement Issued
ln the C?ara' capital tonight reports the
bombardment of the Eraerum fort? and
tbe continued pursuit of the disorganised
Turk?.
Cosaacks played the principal pan in
this pursuit, which, at th? laat, took th?
form of ? maaaacta.
prong of the horseshoe track, seventy
five f*et below.
To add to the spectacular elements of
the wreck, the diner almost immediately
caught Are. and. with no flre-ftghting fa
cilities at hand, the flames were left to
entirely consume the car. Three of the
injured occupants and the body ef one of
the deed were removed before the flames
had gained headway, but tt Is known that
one charred body still* remains **n the
wreck.age
First word of the accident was re
ceived at KvereU. where relief parties.
Including physicians, were hurriedly
made up and ruehed to the scene.
Immense concrete snowshed? had been
installed at an expense of over a million
dollars. Thin winter's enowfal! In the
Cascades has been more excessive than
for many years, evidently exceeding the
capacity of these big snowstied? to hold
bark the accumulated snows in the moun
tains.
LINER HIT BY
TERRIFIC GALE
Steamer New York Arrives
Two Days Late, Minus Four
Life Boats and Two Rafts.
New York, Jan. ??Two days late and
minus four life boats and two rafts, the
American liner New York reached port
today from Liverpool. The boats were
swept swsy durine; a terrlfl.' gale that st
times tipped the liner over until she listed
61 degree??. CapL W. J. "Roberts measured
the wind velocity until lt passed the
eighty miles an hour mark, and he be
lieves lhat It reached the 1(C mile notch.
While F. J. Healey, the boatswain, tru
endeavoring to make fast a line in one
of the lifeboats, a big comber tore the
boat with Healey in lt from the davits,
hurling it Into the sea. Heaiey's life
was saved by the fact that he haa
fastened a line around his waist, enabling
him to be hauled aboard. The weather
was so rough that the Liverpool pilot
was brought all the way over.
A. J. Bethea, lieutenant governor of
South Carolina, and W. G. Conant, of
Tarrytown, N. T? members of the Ford
Peace Party, were among the paseengera
They left the main party at Copenhagen
and traveled through Germany and
Holland, crossing to England from Rot
terdam.
"While I believe the peace tour has done
good, inasmuch as It has brought the
subject of peace squarely before the
world, I don't think the present is an op
portune time for peace proposals," said
Mr. Bethel?
Steamer? Collide in Fog.
New York. Jan. 21.?The steamer Bra
zos, en route to San Juan, collided with
an % unknown steamer In a thick fog off
B&rnegat, N. J., this afternoon. A bis
hole was stove ln the starboard side of
the Braaos and her captain decided to
turn back to port.
New York'e Population, 6,602.841.
New York. Jan. 22.?New York City
will have 5,602,?? population on July 1,
191(1. This statement was contained in
a letter received today by Health Com
missioner Haven Emerson from Samuel
L. Rogers, director of the United Slates
Census Bureau. ' *
Mn. Schott, of Newport, Diet.
Newport. R. !.. Jan. 22.?Mrs. Ellen L
Schott. widow of C. Rtdgeley Schott, a
prominent member of the cottage settle
ment, and formerly of Philaedlphia, died
?t ber cottage tonlrht from pneuiaonim.
EOBBEKS GET $70,000.
Steal Mali Poarh at Iowa Statlaa
and Disappear.
Newton, Iowa, Jan. E.-Bank drafu.
and other money totaling more than
JTt.OOO, were secured by robbers who, taat
night, stole a mall pouch from the rail
road station here aod escaped.
The pouch had lieen left In the ata
tlon awaiting the arrival of a fast ?ast
bound train, Ther? ls no trace of the
robbers.
The loss of the pouch was first de
t?r-ct.*?d by a mall dark on the train
for which the package was Intended. A
search was then commenced, and on the
outskirts of Newton the burned rem
nants of the pouch were found.
DEPEW SCORES
WILSON POLICY
Former Senator Says Foreign
Trade Can't Develop Until
U. S. Offers Protection.
AVERS BUSINESS MAN CANT
BANK ON WATCHFUL WAITING
Cites Incident Illustrating Inactivity of
U. S. Officials and Resoluteness
of Teuton Envoy*.
New Tork. Jan. 22.?"There mill be no
foreign trade for the United States after
the European war unleas American citi
zens and American property in foreign
lands can receive" the unquestioned pro
tection of this government.
"After our experience In Mexico, no
American business man Is going to re
move his family, his fortune or himself to
an alien country where he may at any
moment suffer loca of life or of his world
ly goods without hope of protection from
tbe United State?."
This stinging criticism of President
Wlleona "watchful watting" policy was
given today by former United States Sen
ator Chauncey M De pew at tbe Repub
lican Club. It was tittered in a discaesion
of "The Opport mity of the United States
for World Service in Financial and indus
trial Leadership,''
"Sometitnr- ?ago a man cams into my
office who had been -compelled to leave
Mexico because the activities of the revo
IiK-tonf-sts threatened his life ?and prop
erty. ?' et?ntin??*d Senator Depew "Triti??
msn was an American clUreiu lie owned
a mine in partnership with a citisen of
Germany.
"When the American was ousted from
his property by the warring factions, he
went to the American Ambaaaador at
Mexico City, and was told the American
government could do nothing to protect
either his life or his property. He ap
pealed to the State Department at Wash
ington with ths same result.
"I-ater he met his German partner and
aiked him how his appeal to his govern
ment had fared.
" 'Why.* said the German, 'the German
Ambassador at Mexico City went to the
nominal head or the Mexican government
and told him that unleas I was reim
bursed for my losses a German fleet
would sail into the Gulf of Mexico and
bombard Vera Crux,?
"'What was said to that?' asked the
American.
" 'The Mexicans paid, and paid well,'
replied the German. I have got the
money in my pocket.* "
MOTOR TRUCK STRIKES W0MA5
Mra. Tilhrrl Probe hi? Fatally I n
Jnrrd In MfhoU \?-rriur
Mra. Lilly Talbert, 6fi. 330 Third streel
southwest, was struck and probably
fatally Injured by an automobile truck
operated by Herbert John-son, U, 25
First street northwest. The woman was
taken to Casualty Hospital.
Johnson told the police that the wom
an appeared suddenly In the roadway o?
Nichols avenue in front of the main
gate of the Government Hospital for the
Insane and that he was unable to stoj
his machine before striking her.
Johnson whs charged with assault at
the Eleventh police station.
"Uncle Joe's" Libel Suit Called.
Danville, III.. Jan. 22.? Trial of the J2S.OO0
libel suit of Representative Joseph G.
Cannon against the Danville Press-Demo
crat, Democratic newspaper, for publish
ing statements of former Senator Petti
grew, of South Dakota, against the for
mer Speaker, Just before the Congres
sional election two years ago, was called
here this afternoon. The newspaper
articles quoting the Senator, charged
Cannon with manipulating legislation to
suit his private ends.
Fine Munition Man $500.
London, Jan. 22.?John Goodwin wai
ftned $500 today for proposing a deal for
war munitions with New York concerna
without flrst asking for a permit from
the government.
Rebels Beat Chinese Troops.
Pekin, Jan. 22.?A small body of govern
ment troops were defeated by rebels In
the province of Yunnan, It was stated
today. The rebels are moving northward.
Greek King for Martial Law.
London, Ja*. 2t.?An Athens dispatch tc
the Evening News sa>s that King Con
ManUne in an interview said : "If th?
ministers approach me concerning
martial law I shall certainly approve it.'
Ask $25,000 to Entertain Roosevelt
Havana, Jan. 23,-A bill Introduced ti
the Cuban Congress a pproprtates S2&.00
for the entertainment of Col. Kosevel
while he U in Coba.
VILLA SENDS WORD HE'S
INNOCENT OF MASSACRE;
EIGHT REPORTED SLAIN
Maj. Prieto Brings Word Across Border that
?Mexican Leader Will Punish Murderers
Himself If He Catches Them.
AMERICANS REPORTED HANGED
Metal?rgica! Engineer Reaches Douglas, Ariz., with Story of
Gruesome Discovery?American Merchant Shot by
Carranza, Soldiers in Cafe.
El Paso, Jan. 22.?"I am innocent of the massacre of the Amer
icans killed at Santa Ysabel." This is the personal message brought
direct from Francisco Villa to the American people by Maj. Teodoro
Prieto, who arrived here today.
The message was handed to him by Gen. Villa at El Rucio, ia
western Chihuahua, five days ago, he says. Since then he has been
in the saddle day and night.
According to Maj. Prieto, Villa had no knowledge of the tragedy
until a week ago, when a courier arrived from the scene of the massacre
to appraise him of what had taken place. YiHa was furious and ordered
the courier placed under arrest.
PEACE OFFERS
FOR BELGIUM
Germany Likely to Suggest
Making of Separate Terms,
Declare Reports.
TEUTONS READY TO PAY FOR
DAMAGE DONE, STATES RUMOR
Germany ^ ouicj Profit in Many Ways
Were Step Taker Now.
lt U Shown.
Informano* hai baca recelired Ir
diplomatic circle? (? Washington tbat
Germany la considering making Bel
glum a proposal of separate peace. Th?
evacuation of all Belgian territory
would follow.
It Is understood that the proposa'.
which will be made to King Albert by
the military governor of Belgium, will
'Include an offer to pay for the property
j damage caused by the German occupa
tion.
Official? In close touch with the Ger
man Embassy expressed the opinion
yesterday that the offer, if made, prob
ably would be accepted. Belgium la not
one of the signatories to the document
to which Sir Edward Grey obtained
the Signatur?? of the French and Rus
sian, and late??,, the Italian govern
ments, and wauch binds those nations
not to conclude a separate peace.
The restoration of Belgium would lean e
the allies no room for protest. In the opin
ion of thla authority. Inasmuch a? It has
been this one Point on which tbe a lies
have been most insistent as a condition
of peace.
It can be stated authoritatively that the
question of voluntarily withdrawing from
all the occupied positions of Belgium?on
the one condition that Belgium flret con
?ent to conclude a ?separate peace with
the central empire??is now being care
fully considered In officiai circles ln Ber
lin.
?.?.,?. tar Pra??a?a?BBl.
It Is pointed out that the conclusion of
such an arranarcment would accrue to the
advantage of Germany, for the following
reasons:
1. The conclusion of s separate peace
with Germany would automatically di
vorce Belgium from the other allie?.
:. The occupation by any of the allies
of any part of Belgian territory would
become a violation of neutrality preclaely
comparable wtth the much-quoted viola
tion of neutrality of which Germany ha?
been declared guilty.
I. For the alliea to commit such a
breach of neutrality after having uaed H
as an excuse for making mar on Ger
many Is too inconsistent to be possible
I. Wtth Immunity from attack from
that portion of her frontier facing Bel
glum, Germany mould have for disposal
elsewhere the vast ?rmy now actually In
Belgium and in the trenches on the west
ern portion of the battle line
WOMAN CONFESSES KTllDO
Da in? She Smtm Skr Killed a Man
la I'kiladrlplil?
Camden. ? J.. Jan. 21?Believing her
self on her death bed. Mr?. Iren? Pas
quale confessed in the Camden Hospital
today that she killed a man In Philadel
phia tn l?l?
She waa tried and acquitted of tba
murder of Andrea- Boachtttl on the plea
that ahe was defending her honor
Mr?. Pasquale and her husband are
both dying of gunshot wounds inflicted
Thursday, they say, by Francisco Sporti,
a boarder, when Mr?. Pasquale repulsed
hla advance? Sporti U at larg?
Ey?n on Public Service Board.
Herrlsburg. Pa.. Jar ZL ?Michael 1
Ryan, of Philadelphia. Uemocret. waa to
night appointed Public Serric? Comma?
stonar to succeed stroma? ?. Smith. Re
p?blica?, recently elected mayor of Fhlla.
? nave nooen narc. nve tu?? ira??
Western Chihuahua to carry word to tke
l'nlted Stale? that Gasa Ville 1? lnnoorm
of th? rauaacn. ' ?aid tas? oMciir today
"Furthermore, h? told m? to aay that las
will execute the men who did n tf ke
capture? them, even though they belong
to hi? own group of follower?. Wc were
thea mt El Recto, in Weitern Chihuahua
Villa Mast > ? purr?
"He called for a volunteer to carry
word to the border of hi? Innocence of
the murder and alao hi? determination m
punlah the ?murderers If he catches Ilusa
I waa choe?>n to carry the mesaag?. I
can't r?visai ?her? I crossed the border.
because on my journey I bad to dodge
aeveral Carranaa patroia. and 1 exisrct
to rejoin Villa. Th? general I? gathe?????*
men about him In w'?atara Chi ansa haa,
ana ?Ac ?fio soon ke atroag enough to re.
ne?? the war. HI? old comeaaloaa? ln th?
mountain? are flocking to hi? standard
by hundreds. Tke rumor that he vu
captured is false Villa wU: never k*
caught by thea? clumsy Carransiata? If
he Is ever mad? prisoner. It will be after
he te dead "
KouElaa. Arix . Jan S.?Tke hanging of
eight American? near Ejutla. In the ?tat?
of Oaxaca. by Mexlcaaa was reported
by Andrew J. Trumbe, a metallurgical?!
engineer, when he arrlared hare today.
Trumbo. with hts wife, asma riding past
the pisce and saw the bodies swinging
from tree*. Thev ?ere so badly decom
posed that identification waa Impossible
Weaeded la Cafe.
Trumbo said that Mexlcaaa told him of
the hanging? Tbey aaid tha dead were
American mining men. The hangings
happened about sixty days ago- Trumbo
asserted that the hanging? and many
other executions and deaths of foreigners
were reported to the State Departme<M
by Clifford K. Robinson, acting American
consular agent at Oaxaca. but no Intima
tion wa? ever reortved from Washington
that the report? aera received.
Henry' F* fanner, an American ?mar
chant of Douglaa. arrived here today
from Mexico City, and reported that be
was badly wounded by Carrensa soldiers
??hile dtnlng with sosas friend? la a cafa
In the capital.
He stated the Carranaa officer? cam?
into the cafe and began to abuse the
Americstns. Tenner's companions fteal.
but Tanner ?topped to get hh> coat and
hat and wa? ?hot thrraugti the lung, suf
fered a scalp wound and was nadir
beaten Tanner wa? in the hospital la
Mexloo City for two weeks.
Will Kimte Mta ?are?.
El Paao. Jan. ?-Bernardo aad
Federico Duran, the Mexicana who con
fessed to killing Bert U Acer?, an Amer
ican ranchman, will be ahot at ? o'clock
Sunday morning The execution order
was Issued by the Juares militar-? au
thorities, following their trial, which was
held today.
The ahootlng ?sill take place near tka
Juares railroad station Despite tke fact
that Bernardo Duran admitted that he
fired the ahot that killed Akera. Douglaa
Downs, who accompanied Akers and es
caped, after visiting the Juarea Jail to
night, declared that Bernardo Is aot the
man who did the killing
TWO STXAKEES STKE
Oa? Dalrk sad Oae British > . ?~ l
Ga Desea.
I,ondon Jan. ?-Two steamer?, oa?
Dutch and one Britiah, were reported to
day as sunk.
The Britisher, the Tramaton. waa, of
?Mb tons. Her crew waa saved
Tbe Dutchman waa the Apollo Ska
wa? funk neav the Galloper Lightship.
Sixteen of her crew, four wounded.
have been landed at Flushing Thr??
were drosrned.
United Fruit Company Wim Suit
Philadelphia, Jan. aa.-Ut rvdict Is fa
vor of tbe defendant wa* rendered lata
this ?rtemoaa by th? Jury la ta? au It
of the Bl uefjeto? Steamship ( ??mpaay
?gain? 'ha^Vnlted Fruit <>>rr.r?anj ?aa>
der th. snrnnsr. antl-lni?; ??. Tka
? ult ?na? known as th? Banana Tmet"
