KKETi, WjL
NEW YORK CITY Z m g J ft
, Average copper price Aj
week ending Jan. 12 Xtuti- "S
23.49.
OS
WEATHER
Arizona Fair
. "WW
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL 18, NO. 205.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JANUARY 23, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
on swt
IS OVERRUN
BY ROVING
Andrew J. Trumbo, Returning
from Mexico Swears to Affi
davits Setting Forth Some
of the Outrages.
SAYS CARRANZA IS
POWERLESS IN MATTER
Statement Declares that Num-
, bers of Foreigners, Princi
pally Americans, Have Been
Murdered.
DOUGLAS. Jan. 22. The state or
Oaxaca in overrun with bandits who
are tarrying on a campaign of niur
r ami I'i'iiiiP! orspite ;b.' efforts ft
Carrajza authorities, according to an
affidavit by Andrew J. Trumbo, of Los
Angeles, who arrived here froni Oaxa
ca. The affidavit states: "Twenty
miles southwest of Ejutla I saw the
bodies of six men hanging to trees.
I was told they were Americans. None
knew their names. A quarter of a
mile further I saw two bode badly
dccomposed bodies hanging to a tree.
I was told thpy were also Americans."
Trumbo has been employed by the
Indiana-Oaxaca Copper company. He
said conditions were unfavorable and
he could not remain there with his j
family. He declared that he and his!
wife were mistreated and insulted. i
The affidavit continues:
"hile the., government states It'
will alurd all possible protection to !
foreigner?, the country is overrun by!
bandits, dominated in the north by 1
General Aguilar, a former federal i
commander who exacts -a ransom from
any foreigner passing through his
stronghold at Telepa. He is fortified
there with 300 men armed with can
non and machine guns. .
"Their position is such that they
dominate that section and can easily
stand off an army of 20,000 Carranza
soldiers. Zapata bandits are every-
uhcrfl VL'ithin a half miln tt tTiA vail.
road and frequentlj-.dyiianiite trains,
rob and kill foreigners at will."
The affidavit names a number of
foreigners, alleged to have been vic
tims of Aguilar's brigandage. Trum
bo said that Clifford Robinson, the
American consular . agent at Oaxaca,
had known of these outrages but was
unable to report them- because Agui
lar censored the mail. Trumbo said
the people of Oaxaca wanted to turn
the state over to some established
jovernment and had sent a deputa-j
tion-to Carraiza. Trumbo said Zapa
ta was obtaining munitions from Car
ranza soldiprs through their women
consorts.
DISAVOWS STATEMENT.
MINNEAPOLIS. Jan. 22. John
Lind. former personal representative
of the President in Mexico, wrote a
letter to Henry Lane Wilson, former
alleged statement that Henry Wilson j
knew of the plot to murder Madero.
Lind stated that press reports of his
utterances were detached from his
other language and quotations of his
remarks were misleading and suscep
tible of ml interpretation.
TO BE EXECUTED. '
EL PASO, Jan. 22. Bernardo and
Federico Dura-i, Mexican cattle
thieves, involved In the killing of
Rprt Akers, an American, yesterday
at San Lorenzo, ChihuahUR, just be
low the boundary, will be executed to
morrow, according to an announce
ment of Andrew Garcia, Mexican con
sul here. "The Durans confessed the
crime and were sentenced to death to
day." said Garcia. "A firing squad
will execute the penalty."
The body of Akers was brought to
El Paso to await instructions from
hi? widow. Juan Barrios, a police
officer who was with the Americans,
held the investigation.
The United States provost guard
fired on a number of Mexican sol
diers who crossed the boundary
while rounding up horses and who re
fused to return when ordered. The
customs officers fired in the direction
of Mexicans attempting to smuggle
rags from Juarez to El Paso In viola
tion of the immigration department
rule because of the fear of contagion
from typhns.
General Gavira, commanding the
Juarez garrison. Issued an order for
(Continued on Page 5)
!
SIOUX INDIAN TO
1IEU" GUARD CAPITAL
Mm 1
j mmti J
Frank Janis. a kose t;ml Sioux In
dian of Tripp county. South Dakota,
is one of the few r of Uncle Sam's
"wards" in the rank of the army of
!' assigned to puard his properly
Ja-is has just irona to Washinjrtnn
an.I loined tl.e capital police fnin-lit-
is highly educated and own
floiiiishinjr ;)4)-tcre ranch on the
Kiise Bud reservatioi . and he drives
hi? own auto. Janis is in Washing
ton as the protege of Congressman
il U Candy of S iut! Dakota.
Doubt Exists as to the Effect
Situation Between Monte
negro and Austria. Claims
Met by Denials of Matter.
LONDON, Jan. 22. There is an ab
sence of notable military operations on
major fronts, according to reports.
The Montenegrin situation is clouded
in view of conflicting reports. Vienna
declares the Montenegrins are proceed
ing to lay down their arms while deni
als come from Montenegrin sources
that they have capitulated.
One official statement from Rome
declares that no negotiations perlimi
nary to peace with Austria were ever
entered Into by Montenegro. Indica
tions are that the Russians have ceas
ed for a time, their attacks on he Aus
trian in Bessarabia, while Berlin men
tion.- oniy arsi'.lery activities where
Germans are holding their fronts. The
Fn-ncc-Belgmn front is comparatively
quiet except for frequent outbursts by
artillery o" both sides.
The defeat of the Turks by the Rus
sians in the Caucasus, as reported by
Petroerad is looked upon in the Rus
sian capital as important because it re
sulted in the retirement of the Turks
to Eraerum. It is held this result may
be favorable to the British in Mesopo
tamia as the Turks may have with
rum, one of the important Tukrish cen
ters of defense in this region.
CLAIM TURKS DEFEATED
PETROGUAD, Jan. 22. Military au
thorities attach great Importance to
the defeat of center of the Turkish a'r
my along a sixty mile front between
Lake Tortum, Gelia River and Sharia
kou, with the resultant capture of the
fortifications at Keupri Keui, which
was defended by nearly an army corps.
The importance of Keupri Keui is
dup to the fact that it is the last natur
al stronghold on the road to Erzerum,
thirty miles west, to which t Turks
are retiring. It is considered issible
the victory will have an influence on
the situation in Mesopotamia and
oblige the Turks to withdraw their
forces thence fqr the defense of Erze
rum. OLD PAPER SUSPENDS.
LONDON. Jan. 22. The Manchester
Courier, established in 1825. an
nounces ai approaching suspension
"owing to the rise-in the price of
paper".
OPERMICIIS Oil
MAJOR FRONTS
ARE QUIET
Government Levee Breaks and
Four Feet of Water From
The Colorado River j
Covers Yuma '
Arizona City is in Complete Dprknecs Owing to the Inopera-
tion of the Electric Light and
Also Put Out of Commission. Citizens' Committee Main
tains Order Since Mayor Died of Heart Failure.
Flood aters Touch the Girders of the Southern Pacir.c
Bridge Across the River. Upper Reaches of Stream Re
port Water to Be Falling. No Indication of This at Yuma.
Estimated That 1C0 Houses were Destroyed.
Yl'MA, Jan. 22. At least a thousand are boneless as the result of the
flood. Practically every business ho ise i:-. flooded and the en'ire Mexi
can quarter Inundated. The Colora lo is stil! rising late tonight r,nd a
two-foot rise is reported at Needles, 300 mil?: norch. More than 300
homeless were cared for by a citizen5' committee. , j ;
Reclamation officials ordered a cut in the levte at Willit Siding to
drain the overflow back into the rivjr. Southern Pacific officials report
ed a washout imminent on the oppo ;ile sic'" of the r'ver a few miles
from Yuma. It' this occurs train service wiil be blocked.
YUMA, Jan. 22. The Yuma Valle is coveted to a lipp"!! of from one to
four feet of water from the Colorado liver as the re:ult of the breaking of
the govem'rent levee. The City of Yjnia is in darkness, without any sup
ply of watPr as the plants supplying gas, electricity and water were flooded
A citizens' committee is maintaining older, Mayor Charles C. Moore having
died of heart failure during the excite- went which prevailed shortly after the
levee broke.
Business houses on Main Street are flooded to a depth of four feet, many
of the older buildings having been washed away or damaged. Residenfs
were sent to the hills back from the river. Thousands of acres of agricul
tural land on both sides of the river are flooded and irrigation canals are
filled to the breaking point.
Communication with farming districts is cut off. preventing the receipt of
reports from many communities. The river appecred to be falling but it Is
believed this was caused by breaks in levees and that the volume of water
is undiminished. !
It is estimated that at least 100 houses were destroyed. Tjhe Catholic
rectory is endangered and men are bracing it with props and sandbags. The
Wells Fargo Company was compelled to move from the building adjoining
the office of the Examiner, which is fi oded to a depth of four feet. The
building in which the Morning Sun is located is a complete loss, being one
of the first to be undermined.
Reports from the upper Colorado say the river is falling, but there are
no indications here tonight. Waters touched the girders of the Southern
Pacific bridge but that structure is withstanding the pressure.
Officials of the reclamation service report the heaviest flood condition
ever recorded. At least four miles of the government levee is washed out
just below here. No estimates of the danage were made tonirk.v Citizens
stated that an appeal probably will be made to Congrpss for an immediate
appropriation for the repair of damage to the irrigation project.
RIVER'S COURSE GREATLY CHANGED N
SANTA ANA, Jan. 22. The plans cf the county officials to straighten
the course of the Santa Ana River were completed by the river itself as a
result of the recent storm. The water's flowing into the Pacific today at a
point nearly 5 miles north of the original outlet.
While ranchers were working to prevent the river flooding farm lands
further inland the stream itself was cutting a new channel eas of Hunt
ington Beach. In doing so it made the outlet to the ocean near the Pacific
Seaside Orphans Home, threatening to undermine the buildings.
Twenty orphans in the. home were removed to Huntington Beach. Plans
of tie county to change the course of'-he river have been delayed pending
condemnation proceedings, because of lack of funds to bridge the new
course.
EL CENTRO. Jan. 22. No damag? in the valley to the irrigation system '
resulted from the flood waters tonight. The water is eighteen feet deep a
gainst the gates of the system at Han'on Landing according to a message
from Chief Engineer Allison of the California Developmpnt Company, who
reported the water had begun to recede at that point. The levees of the
Volcano Lake section are Intact.
PROHIBITION PARTY
OFFICIAL GALL SENT
Arizona Entitled to Five Dele
gates at St Paul Convention
Beginning the 19th Day of
July.
CHICAGO, Jan. 22. The official call
for the National Prohibition Conven
tion for 1916 is issued in the hour of
greatest opportunity for the triumph
of Prohibition Party principles and Pr0
hibition Party philosophy.
The most sanguine advocates of
liquordom and of the hour of post
ponement for making paramount the
overthrow of the liquor traffic in Am
erican politics point to no remoter
date than the rear 1920, whereas the
progressive and earnest advocates of
the traffic's doom point now to the
year 1916. I
Scores of men of national promi-
nence and hundreds of thousands of
the rank and file have declared their
intention of supporting such political j
party in 1916 as stands committed by
state and national platform declara
tion to Prohibition of the liquor traffic i was alleged the defendant violated the
We are justified from the course of j Sherman law in acquiring stock con
events in looking to the St. Paul Con-Urol of the company thpn throttling the
vention as a gathering of the multitude
who have so declared, as an occasion
of future historic Interest, and a place
where will be generated the forces
which will life to paramountcy the is-
ue National Prohibition, and elect an crating sixteen hours the jury in the
administration that will enact the j case connected with the alleged Har
same into law. :vard fraudulent election and registra-
The chairman of he Prohibition Na-'tion returned a sealed verdic t. It will
tional Committee, in accordance with . he opened Monday. In this case Iler
hc instructions of that body, invites hert Harris, a lawyer, is charged with
the Prohibitionists of the several taking a false oath and falsely certify
states, without regard to past political l"g to allow Wendoll Townsend, a
affiliations, and all citizens who be- Harvard senior!! to vote in Cambridge
lieve in the principles advocated by although his place of residence was
the Prohibition Party, to unite in the. Cohassett
Gas Piants. Water Station
" I for that purpose and that no indict
relection of delegates to the National ! aDle offense has been shown.' Fowler
Convention of the Prohibition Party, declared the indictments vague, in-
which is called to meet in the Auditori
uni, St. Paul, Minnesota, at ten o'clock
in the morning of July 19, 1916, to noni
Inate candidates for President and
Vice-President, and for the transaction
of such othpr business as may proper -
ly come before that convention.
The ba.is of representation has been
fixed by the Prohibition National Com-i
mittee and Arizona will have five dele
.HteS.
NOT GUILTY IS VERDICT
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 22. A ver-1
diet for the defendant was returned by
'a federal jury in the suit of the Blue
fields Ftenmship Company against the
United Fruit Company under the Shpr
man Act. It was known as the banana
rust suit. Millions were involved in
the litigation.' The jury had begun its
deliberations Thursday.
Originally the action was for fifteen
millions, the steamship company
daring its business had been damaged
to the extent of five millions and the; Forty-four per cent of the killed
law permitting riple damages. The;WPre children. Automobiles caused
amount was greatly reduced by a rul-'ivs doaths. Automobile accidents, re-
ing of the court that the status of lim-
Hat ions permitted the
damnues only from 190."
collection
to 1911.
of
It
concern as a competitor.
SEALED VERDICT HAD
CAMBRIDGE. Jan. 22. After delib-
WOMEN FIGHTERS
... if
Austrian women fighters in uniform.
These two women have been with the Austrian armv since the outbreak
of the war, and have taken part in many battles. One of them, before the
war, was a public school teacher; the other, who proudly wears her meual
for bravery on the field, is a student of the University of Vienna.
i
MT REMOVAL JAP
OF CASE FROM
NEW YORK
Defendants of Indictments in
j Metropolis Argue Motions
! to Have Suit Changed from
j Original Jurisdiction.
j WASHINGTON. Jan. 22. Former
' Representative Fowler, Henry MartiD
land Herman Schulteis of Labors Na- Immigration of Japanese, while both
j tional Peace Council, under indict- j Hindus and Chinese are virtually
j ment in New York for allege!. conspi-1 barred by the provision of thp immi
ircy to prevent shipment of munitions gration bill to be reported to the
of war to foreign countries, appeared
before the United States commission
er to fight for a removal .from New
York. The arguments were not con
cluded. They will be resumed Mon
day. It is argued that the indictments
against the three men charged not
direct conspiracy in restraint of trade,
as forbidden by the act. but that they
are charged with using other persons
; sufficient and said he. later- would
; show they were procured by bribery,
I David Lamar. Frank Monnett' and 'two
! others 1 idicted In the same cose who
j appeared in New York to answer
1 were spectators. '
! '
j NORRIS BILL APPROVED
WXSHINGTON Jan. 22. The Nor-
K aut,orixing national banks to
tKonwolvou nf tha utnta lava fnr
a guarantee of deposits was ordered
1 reported favorably by the Senate
Banking Committee. It has been held
i that national banks may not avail
j themselves of the state guaranty laws
without Congressional legislation per
mitting them to do so.
NEW YORK'S ACCIDENTS
NEW YORK. Jan. 22. There wer
2X980 street accidents in New York
in 1915. '659 persons were" killed. 23,
de-j32i were injured, according lo police
statistics.
suiting in death or injury outnumber-
'ed all other classes, 4S63 having oc-
curred.
DECLARE FOR PENSIONS
INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 22. The Un-
Ited Mine Workers convention went on . . '.
ment bv Goethals.
record for a more vigorous campaign
for the enactment or a system of old ANOTHER ENDORSEMENT.
age pensions. The executive board -
ws instructed to draw up a federal I WASHINGTON. Jan. 22. The no
bill or uniform measure to be present- tional policies of the United States,
ed to the legislature of all states. 'particularly the Monroe IVwtrine. the
Open Ioor In the Orient and the su
NOT ON BALLOT. ; premacy of Pacific and Asiatic Exclu
MINNEAPOLIS. Jan. 22. A. D. ' slon, can be upheld If backed by force.
Rahn received a letter from Roosevelt Brigadier General McComb. president
asking that Roosevelt name not be of the Army War College, told the
ns''rt in the Minnesota primaries.' The Senate Military Committee. He ad
petition which Rahn had circulated vocated the plan of the regular army
put the colonel's name on the Repub- of half a million and continental army
lican ballot will be recalled. of a million within eight years.
IN AUSTRIAN RANKS
. .. .. . " ' ...
E
ACT REPORTED
IE
Immigration Bill Which will
Exclude Japanese Laborers
will be Recommended for
Passage by Congress.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22. Drastic
restrictions will be thrown about th-
House, next week, by the immigration
committee. The committee believes
that new features relating to the Jap
anese will have a far reaching effect
in shutting off the influx of Japane-tt
laborers.
The exclusion section bars "Hindus
and all persons of the Mongolian or
yellow race, Malay or brown race."
The bill is expected to. be put into
legal form to amplify an informal
agreement made eight years ago be
tween Secretary Root and the Jap
anese Emperor under which Japan
agreed not to issue paspcrts to Jap
a ipse laborers emigrating to thf
United States.
Exclusion of Chinese and Japanese
students, business men. travelers am!
other excepted classes are not antt
cipated by the committee. Other pra
visions are to raise the head tax tc
eight dollars and a steamboat com
pany bringing in aliens who are later
j deported will be reulred to refund the
. e .:
Asiatic exclusion ami
I tne literacy test are expected to pre
cipitate a vigorous debate.
ENDORSES GARRISON'S PLAN
WASHINGTO... Jan. 22. Endorse
ment of Garrison's efforts to enlarge
the military forces was voted by the
National Security I-eacue witn reserv
ations that the regular mobile army
be even greater than contemplated by
the War Department, also that ade
quate national defense depend Ulti
mately on "universal obligatory mili
tary service". It also urged a greater
building pro.cram for the navy than
outlined by the Nevy Department.
NO PREDICTION MADE.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 22. Owing to
the uncertainty regarding the move
ments of slides In the Gallard Cut.
I there Is no prediction as to the open-
. Intr nf Ih. pannl arcnriliniF tn Ik Rfatp-
III HIM
POLICE AFTER
SUN DIEGO
MISSING .
Ill
Officers of All California Aid
ing Search for the Wife of
Hotel Proprietor Said Ab
ducted by Mulatto Man.
THOUGHT TO BE IN
CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Woman Sends Telegram to
Husband in Which She De
clares She Went Away to
Save Self and Family.
SAN EI EGO, Jan. 22. The police,
throughout Southern California art
aiding the search for Mrs. Viola Hood,
aged twenty-six, the wife of a San Die
so hoTel proprietor, who it is alleged,
was forced by Raymond Dodds. a mul
littto, to leave her husband and Be
u itb Li:n. Dodds was formerly chauf
i'eu for Hood. He is alleged to have
ihie?tened ij kill Mrs. Hood's parents
if she did not accompany him.
An investigation revealed that a
woman answering a description of Mrs
Hood had purchased tickets to Los
Angeles from a bus company. Five'
minutes later a negro, fitting Dodd's
description, appeared with two suit
cases. According to the driver, both
went to Los Angeles. ,
Hood declared he received a tele
gram from his wife in Los Angeles
.f ading: "I have taken the only course
open to keep my family from death
and destruction. Leaving here now.
Wilt write soon. Go to mamma. She
will tell ou all. Brace up. You can't
suffer more than I am or have been.
Tell people we had trouble and I left."
According to the police Hood dismiss
ed Dodds for alleged thefts. After his
discharge it is alleged re declared he
would "get even" with Hood. A num
ber of letters threatening death to Mrs.
Hood, her husband and her parents ari
said to have been received by Hood's
wife. The Hoods have been married
ten years. They have no children.
AVALANCHE WRECKS TRAIN
SEATTLE. Jan. 22. Four bodies
have b-en recovered from the v reck
of the Great Northern train, two cars
of which were smirk by a i avalanche
near Coroa on the west slope of the
Cascade Mountains. Two passenger
are missing. The railroad company
says the death list wfll not exceed
six. Fifteen passengers were injured,
one seriously.
Miss Fern Murdock had a thrilling
escape.. She was in the end of a
cluir car and was thrown down the
mountain side fifty feet into snow tip
to her neck. Mrs. Edward Baiterman.
her husband a id three children wen
on the train. Mrs. Battem.an was In
the dressing room warming her baby's
milk when the slide hit the car. The
bottle broke severely cutting her. She
was pinned fast for forty minutes be
fore she was extricted. Her husband
nd baby are dead, one child missing
md the third unhurt.
SUNK SHIP WS HELGOLAND.
ROME. Jan. 22. The Italian navy
department received information thst
the Austrian scout cruiser, sunk a
week ago, was the Helgoland, which
had been attached to the Cattora
base.
HOPE ABANDONED
WASHINGTON. Jan. 22. The State
Oposrtnient has virluallr abandoned
hope of determining what destroyed
he British steaniihin Persia, sunk in
he Mediterranean with loss of at.
isst two Americans. AnstriA and
Germany disclaimed responsibility and
affidavits of surviving passengers are
inconclusive.
MRS. TUMULTY OPERATED ON
WASHINGTON. Jan. 22. The wife
of Joseph Tumul'v. the President's
secretary, underwent a successful op
eration. Her condition is improved.
MEXICANS ARRESTFD
YSLKTA. Jan. 22. Three Mexicans
re held on charge of cattle stealing
nd tsVen to El Paso whn rangers
'earned of a plot to lynch Ihp prisoner
STEAMER IN DISTRESS
PORTLAND. Jan. 22. The coaster
"ontrnlia with 2S aboard, wirelessed
distress.
