TTRf
-- r-
(Hirwfr
"FT"""" r"i HPTr""
.'
IftelttoMttflfiro Itme
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair and Colder
(Full Report on Pago Two.) t
Sunday Evening
Edition
It
DUMBER 8788.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, JANUABY 23, 191G,
I'BICE ONE CENT
v
BELGIUM WILL 1
NOT ACCEPTIS DESPERATE
EACE EXCEPT
WITH ALLIES
Entente Diplomats Deolare
. There Is No Possibility of
Separate Settlement With
Any Warring Power.
German "Feelers" Direoted Tb
Ward, Russia and France,
Now Toward Belglum-But
They Will Be Futile.
By JTJDSON C. WELLIVER.
If a separate peace is offered by
Germany to Belgium, the proposal
will be rejected by both Belgium
and her allies.
That such an offer may be made,
as has heen intimated in German
diplomatic circles, is regarded by
allied diplomats as quite possible.
They, do not consider the sugges
tion as at all preposterous. Rather,
they point out that it would be
quite characteristic of German
procedure to propose restoration
of -Belgian neutrality, now that
there is nothing for Germany to
gam by' continuing to violate it.
In substance, the suggestion is
that if Germany should offer peace
and
fiffali-
while
for tti
been 'one of their prime objects in
the war.
THE GERMAN VIEW.
i ,
There Is. In the German view, no
reason whv Belgium' should not accent
and make a separate peace, because!
Jfistoritiiki & Belgium, Bd.-!11e fight mto the Kiddie West, -u rcCeaes.aDB icpyes 10 ner tne aououui comrort orcguitta.Elzd- -' , NSHBHHHHH
. uFffiiTfl hef ''Wad " neeem ruosequen"y mere wuiiDC oin.crj" " '"J"V" 'u'c. "'" i a siianKc, jncomprffnensioie- XfZHHIilP
twouia do giaa to accept, , 'u.vkd nPUre in the Bn nf P.mni TricUc N5WPHK
the allies could not object, b . mc he can ' mch haS een writtcn t he Q( & vQmm scorned iHPP
restoration of Belgium has ,:' tnnnpf FrtP h?B nrrtJ.flm ' I - SiP
Belgium U not a ignatory of the agree- servers In AVashington are antlclpat
ment among the other allies that no jng. a lively season.
separate peace, shall be concluded. The Iact tnat tnc rresidcnt should
The German view, awordtg to thelhav1 sciected as the Itinerary of his
ctorie. that have been out out Is that If (Continued on Foprth Page.) .
Belgium were restored to neutrality and ,
evacuated. It could not attain be used j
as a military base: the big German!
Wrce now required to be maintained
theer could be withdrawn and used else
whore, and thus Germany would gain
the nrivnntAf-e nf rtenrKHni? tVi ntllea nt
Both a moral Issue and a military op
Dprtunlty. But the allies have no notion that
any such proposal will be taken serl-1
ously. from an authoritative dlplo-1
matte source. leflectlnsr the sentiment'
of the anti-Germanic powers, most posi
tive assurances was secured on this point
toda).
The statement, which for obvious -reasons
mav not be quoted, may. bo para
phrased thus:
Germany has fop some months been
nutting out peace feelers, declined In
part to start peace discus-slou while
German military advantage I? at Its
climax, and in part to breed dissension
among the allied powers. Kfforta at a
separata peace with Russia -were made
a long lime ago; Franco could douhUesa
xet separate peace at an ytlmn; but
neither Russia nor France has been
willing to listen. No it Is Gelslum-sj"'"" " V'"r """ ""
turn to receive the suggestion. I lo a .
It la true that Belgium is not a sig
natory of the agreement against sepa
rate peaces, but neither the King, tho
(Continued on Page Nine.)
REUEFFHOiFLOOD
Cessation of Rain Promises Re
lief in West,,Whcre Heavy
Damage Is Done.
A cessation of the ruins in the West
and colder weather for all sections of
he country, forecast by the Weather
Bureau, is expected to halt tho floods
now devastating 'lie M'--dsstnpl val
ley and South'- t ..'", The only
rain los't nigh "' '" bo 'p North
west, and h co'd " v ' . melo-)-ed
the sectlonr "' " : ' ' n'ffh "'liter.
The swollen t e-im '' OkMinma
began to recede la -t r'-.'lit nnd con
ditions are expected t bo normal be
fore today has elapsed.
Encouraging word also conic from
Yuma, Ariz., where the devastating
floods caused great life mid destnn;
t on of property. Yuma practically Is
ut off from communication.
Mvou fiwios In WaHilpRton hurled
ill ChirHV', Milwaukee, nnd Ht. Paul
t a-'H near l.ako Ke.M'helus for more
t';n a thou 'anil feet
ail lat nlghu
lying up U attic
IS EXPECTED SOON
ION'S TOUR
MOVE
AV
DEFENSE PLAN
Chances for Re-election in' No
vember May Depend on Ex
tent to Which He Can Arouse
Puplic Support Now.
Demoorats in Congress Com
pletely Disorganized on Pre
paredness Question and
President Must Act at Once. i
: k I
In a desperate effort to save his
national defense program from his
party, President Wilson will go be
fore the country, ' beginning this
week, to carry to the people his
appe'al for support.
With the Democrats in Congress
completely disorganized on the
subject of preparedness, the Pres
ident has been made to realize
that unless he assumes an aggres
sive leadership in the fight, the
one issue upon which the Admin-
istration has concentrated every
effort in the present Congress will
be lost, and that on the eve of a
national election.. '
Emerging from the shell of se-
elusion that has surrounded' him
almost from the time he became
President, Mr. Wilson will leave;
Washington next Friday to carry
lic support for his program, may
depend his chances for re-election ,
next' November.
LIVELY SEASON DUE.
And with tho prospect, frequently
held out of late, that he will be trailed
hv Rrvan ami it on volt nnllHcul nil.
AEROPLANE RAIDS
1ST
Drops Bombs in Kent, Killing
One and Injuring Six Per
sons, London .Reports.
LONDON. Jan. 3.-A hostile aero
plane appeared over the east coast of
Kent at 1 o'clock this -morning and
lAninJ iilnn tm1iu Tt iliAa liviifl rtfT"
I no oiurni lepori says one man waa
killed and two men, one woman and
thrpc children were injured slightly,
fcome damage to property was caused
hy fires.
Kent Is a county in England forming
the southeast extremity of Great Urlt
ain and adjoining tho counties of Essex,
Middlesex, Surrey nnd Sussex. It Is
bounded on the southeast by the Strait
of Dover. '
OFF HAMPTON ROM
. . - 1.!. j. "- . .-' . .?!..- . ." ' ' AIHBBiHidHnBBHBBy
n - i iiw uhuuui i i vi wswb.a t t h - '
111
EOTCV
PRESIDENT H BRIDE
of, doubtful lineage amassed by her husband in practice bought her-
Norfolk. Jan. 23.-The yacht May- way, Elizabeth Blair Mohr merely as one of the thouusands of neg
ISrtharStrtS Hampton !ected wjvcs of now-a-day domestic infelicity, until that fateful morn
Roads up to noon today, The May- ing on September 2 when she was haled from her home accused as
flower, according to reportB at Oldl . ,. . . .
roint. was only a few miles away, but1 an aQcessory to an exceptionally-brutal murder.
UTho0Moyriow2? wnMn 'wireless com-' Knowing that her husband's friendships with other women were
Sound" was cominKV",HnnK'-aa! thT beinS carried on without effort at concealment, and knowing that her
Government Ration jere, indicating' friends and neighbors knew, Elizabeth Blair Mohr, upon the surface
that she was not rnr nwa , .... ' r
At old roint u is sain it m extremely,
doubtful that the Pre8ii!'nt will come
ashore ami it is also aij ihut the May-
flower may not come to Hamptor Roads
at all.
Members of Ford Party
Due to Land Tomorrow
NRW YORK" .Tan. 23.-A wireless
rpo'snjre fom 'he Mnrwcglfui-Anicrlcan
liner Kris'1' n fjord to the offices of the
line here todav announced that the Ford
jieace party na abowa.
Mrs
. Mohr, Scorned
Awaits
That
Before Many Hours Frail Widow Who Stands
On Brink of Social Outlawry Will Know
Whether Jury Believes Her Colored
Accusers' Version of Crime.
ALL NEW ENGLAND
PROVIDENCE, Jan. 23.--Unobtrusively almost casually a frail,
sorrow-worn little woman is moving through the ramifications of the
most extraordinary murder trial which has ever shaken staid old New
England to its social foundations.
Perhaps within the next few days, the foreman of a "jury of her
pecrs' wil1 ,stand bore her and from his-lips she will learn whether'
..iv- i yv iii ubiiiuiiu uiui aijc uc sum lur mc iruni iici icuut-
men the penalty which will be exacted is she is convicted, as charg-
ed, of having instigated the murder
Beside her in the court room
a chore boy, and, Cecil Victor Brown, a hostler. They, a relentless
prosecution charges, at her bidding, killed their employer for a
Judas price. Their guilt, the prosecution charges, was once con
fessed, then, denied.
It was on the night of August 31 last, it is charged, that they
waylaid Dr. C. Franklin Mohr, and shot him tov death as he sat in
his automobile on the Barrington-Nayatt road with the Other Woman,
Emily Burger, at his side.
George W. Healis, negro Chauffeur of the "death car," has tes
tified in open court of the alleged pact which the State relies upon
to Srind the net closely about the accused widow.
For weeks past the sordid undercurrents, set in motion by the
evidence of the chauffeur, the hostler, and the chore boy, have been
swirling about her as she sits, the central and yet in many ways the
mos negative figuure in the trial, holding fast to the one thing which
may drag her from the pit which has opened 'beneath her feet the
reluctance of white men to convict a white woman on the testimony
of men of another race.
ret whether thq tide of evidence rises sufficiently high to, engulf
her, or whether, satisfied with the bldod guilt ofclhe actual assassjjis,
HSHfl&L Vimi mTi"t " " 'i'JBiJTiWBr "r-feSr'KS III ' 5-'JBraBtoyi ''f ''
mglB':,wirPvy 7DT '27XSSMfiSXt- WPsBUm (I - x - ? J
pHBKRs - iaBsSHBHBHBMB!iMBBiM vBShHHk9k BBHb 'JBSBBBBBBBBh
ff ,HmJmBBBBmMBk BSPJlKrj!lBHraBgBBBgl' -m itl H nBl lpJHBBBfi SnBBISBBBBBH
oroj x
Above; Mra. Elizabeth F. Mohr.
More has been graven on the tablets
wjves of fascinating and philandering
j been drawn a picture which is the
physically commonplace and almost unprepossessing little woman,
who has bpen found to be a creature of unusual contradictions and
rare complexities.
The society of Providence and Newport, into which the dollars
at least, Deiore tne Killing ot ner nusDana, movea m an unruniea so
. . . . .. . . ... lmj j
ciety existence, spending her time in caring for her children and ir
aiding the charitable efforts of the St. Vincent de Paul home.
Then her friends began to tell her of her husband's indiscretions,
for fear she had been too blind to discern her own shame; so that
afterward they came to know her as a courteous, cultured gentle
woman, facing bravely an intolerable domestic tragedy for the sake
of her little boy and girl, and her religion.
Todny, outwardly, ave for a pallor like that which follows on the
(Continued on Tenth Vtt.)
Fate Unmoved by
She Prompted His Murder
SOCIETY SHOCKED
of her husband.
sit two negroes! Henry Spellman,
wvofivooo ?vo CAioCfyooo
Below: The Mohr Home In Reservoir
of divorce concerning the plain
husbands. Yet never has there
parallel of that presented by this
in,
by Her Husband,
avenue, Providence.
IN DEAJHJ PEED
John D. Chestnut Is Refused Bail
Following Fatal Accident in
Automobile.
Three more nre?ts. making live in all,
wore made by tho police of tho Seconu
precinct today in connection with tne
iieMh of John R. Heed, twenty-three
years old, nt tho Kw -.-"ley Hospital
last night as tho nv, I nt injuries re
ceived In an autotnooni accident early
yesterday.
John il. Chestnut, of 1&I7 Holmcad
placo northwest, who, tho police ra,
was driving tho inichlno, and bamuei
Tucker, twenty-four, of 13'W U I rare)
slrr.'t northwest, wero arrested shortly
after young Feed's death lust nignt,
while Kwmeth R. t'olllnge, eighteen,
of 1313 Fiilrmniit street, John Hancock,
nlnetTii. of VMS llnrvnrd street, and.
H'vinnnl l-'hlHlps. plghleen. of m Ol
iv rd siivl northwest, were taken into
custody today.
fflE
UI
a
Stories
Arthur Gushing, Widow's Attorney.
Seventeen Thousand Dollars in
Cash and Gems Lost in
Apartment Blaze.
ROSTON, Jan. 23.-Flftcen thousand
dollars In cash and J2.O0O worth of Jew
elry, said to belong to Mrs. John Mc-
Kcnna. of Philadelphia, are being
searcnea lor loaay ny tne ponce in tne
ruins of an eight-family apartment
block.
This block and a score of wooden cot
tages wero destroyed in Wlnthrop
niriy touny ny a nro oeuevea 10 nuve
been Incendiary. At one time tho entire
town was supposed to have been
doomed.
Mrs. McKenna was the guest of Mr.
nnd Mrs.-Phlllp Uowe at the wedding of
an army neuten.'tnt ni rort uanks.
When the tire sturted tho money nnd
Jewels were In n tin box nnd it is pos
sible that they may be found In the
ruins.
EMU.
UN lil FINE
RUINS AT WINTHROP
TWO MEXICANS
ARE EXECUTED
ER
OF AMERICAN
Summary Punishment Moted
Out to Cattle Rustlers Who
Killed Bert Akers Near
Juarez Last Friday.
United States Patrol. Fire on
Carranza Soldiers When
They Try , to Cross Border,
Killing One. $
EL PASO, Jan. 23. Swift pun
ishment was meted out to .the Mex
ican cattle rustlers whomurdercd
Bert Akers Friday afternoon,
twelve miles east of Juarez, at the
Mexican village of San Lorenro,
according to Gen. Gabriel Gavira,
commander of the Juarez garrjson,
According .to General Gavira,
Bernardo and Federico Duta'n, the
men who confessed to the killing,
were executed at 5 o'clock this
morning in Juarez. The execution,
he said, took place at the Juarez
Cenietery.
The Duran brothers, who wen
natives of New Mexico, Jd b,ecn
in the Juarez jail since' the night
of the killing.. Instead of letting the
civil courts nan&'e the affajr,-Gen-eral
Gavira '"presenlfdd" tne" testi
mony in tho'case to a military tri
bunal yesterday afternoon and the
verdict was death for the two men.
APPROVED BY JUDGE.
Before the verdict wps returned, tho
Juarez Judgeof 'ett'er.!. the civil author
ity who ordinarily would r-ovi handled
th case, was glvon nn opportunity to
read the testimony. TV npproved the
Judrment of the military court.
A regulation military exernr nn sqaart
sent the murderer to fliel- p In tho
fashion approved all eve.- Mexico
Hanging is unknown In the Mexican re
public, nnd a rnanscntenred to Teath '
Invariably shot.
It Is believed that this summary action
will put an effective quietus on depre
dations In thlr. section hy rntt'e riwtlcrs
from fie other ."'de of the boiler.
A I'nlted Ftates pitro' "'ivt n;i two
Carrania soldiers ns tir.he Mexicans at
tempted t - evres! the Intenia'.lonal line
ner hcer Inst nlsht.
Oie Mc lean. Is reported to have been
killed
Prlvnen tone; nnd ItprtUnn of th
?l5.toentli '"'ntrv. ho d'l 'i" shoot
h'P clnl'M t'e Afevic,,,c il"v th -If guns
tlirffifen'"-'' r'ter f'ev vnv ordered
not to cro' -"veil. It l re-,rrted tht
Me'Menni sill t'-nv rpri -.o'v after
ea'ilrv ho" e 'l"h hid strn''i"d across
the bnunrtnrv
Brie r"en .Te,,- T TVitVe ro-n-mander
of '! r-nrier fo" h-rn has
bc'gun an livrooii o 1li" shotlnr
Hen. OpVrlel Oivlr'n. rnirnnntlw tti
.Tustct li nr-r,,,-l",t; to rnti'te n formal
nr"'" to eohlnf.
VVih Prleo n steT pffeor. has
turn(l nn hr dlreet frm" VU1' hld-n-
n'apo In he rnrii,"," e nilhua-h-in.
nd slij th bn"dlt 'eider hart
ehavcred him to n-ecnt a statement to
tho Amcrlenn rieon'e
Villa Denies Guilt.
Villa declared he too'; no part In tha
massacres and was lenornnt of It unUl
afterward.
"In order to show my .Innocence m
this crime." Vl'la sold. "T' declare my
self personally to inulei jk'e the pun
ishment of those responsible. Whether
they have been suuporters of my causa
or not, I will punish them."
"General Villa still lias about V
men," said Prleto. "He Is far from
being defeated. He Is ns optimistic as
ever, but such reports as that he Is
responsible for the Santa Ysatoel mas
sacre displease him. He has no 111 feel
lng against the American neople al
though he Is not personally friendly to
ward tho Government for Its recognition
of Carrania."
Was Not the Alan.
Douglas Downs, survivor of the attack
hy Mexican cattle rustlers In which his
companion, Akers, was' killed Frlda.
declares that he went to Juarez yester
day afternoon and 'saw Bernardo Duran,
the man said to have confessed tho kill
ing, and that Duran was not the man
who pursued him and Akers.
Carran2a Consul Garcia declares uni
formed Carranza soldiers did not take
part In tho attack on tho twb Ameri
cans. In the attack on Akers, Mexjcan
Policeman Barrios, who had been
commissioned by the Juarez author
ities to aid the Americans In search
for stolen cattle, was sh'ot In tha
breast and seriously Injured.
Akers' body was 'transferred from
Juarez to Kl Paso yesterday on the
demand of Z. U. Cobb, collector of
customs. '
L"i d States Consul Thomas D. Ed
warda, of Juarez, said he hud instruct-
FOR
M
1
M
5
