* ^
4 ' . -
WEATHER.-k CY-lf rv B "From ?Wf. Home |!
To^oTfeiT0^^8^,1^f^: //f 0?m/+mA OvT^VAi) f?8 T?~~
1 I 11(7 5JI' n PTTT II fi ^SSbI All Wtihin the Horn"
~S&yllK -3LJUJWUIIU ^
' -- ~. l . B l y 7-1 r / T Swora H?t Clrealattoa, Moatk of Soptnafcar.
CLOSING SEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IS. V- , *?? Dally ivenit, T4JB?I Sandar. IMH
No. 29,474. 1 WASHINGTON, D. c., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17,' 1916?TWENTY-TWO PAGES. " ONE CENtT
MR. M'ABOO FAVORS
HALF-HOIIDAY PLAN
Secretary Writes President
Recommending Saturday
Respite for Employes.
PAYS TRIBUTE TO CLERKS
The proposition of half holiday Saturdays
all the year round is favored
as a general principle by Secretary
"William G. MeAdoo of the Treasury
Department. He hopes ilie President
can see his way clear to establish the
practice.
Secretary MeAdoo signed a letter conveying
his views just before he departed
yesterday afternoon on his
campaign tour of Illinois, Indiana,
Ohio and Tennessee. He did not care
to leave the matter open during his
absence, in view of the delay in executive
action that might follow. The
letter was sent this morning to the
White House.
As the attitude of the Treasury Department
in matters of labor, work
* hours, holidays and compensation is a
guide to all the administrative branches
of the government, the views, of Secretary
MeAdoo are expected to have convincing
weight. It would seem at this
moment that the prospect is most favorable
for the extension of half holi<'
ys to Saturdays throughout the year.
Compliments Office Force.
Secretary MeAdoo, in his letter, pays
tribute to the efficiency of the clerks
under him. and considers that the Saturday
half holidays extended to them
during three months of the summer
proves an incentive for best --(Torts to
keep up the work in other hours. He
fctates that the bureau of engraving
and printing will ha\% to extend the
work hours of other days in tin. week
or be put* under expense for the tunc
lost. Some other bureaus and division;-,
if is possible, will huv- to require overtime
of the clerks to keep up with the
work in the event of th- re being a Saturday
half holiday all the year round,
'enerally. however. assurance is given
hat the work can be kept up without
any great burden of work on other
days.
Secretary's Letter.
Secretary McAdooV letter, addressed
? J. P. Tumulty, secretary to the
esident. reads;
. *1 am in receipt ot your letter ot the
th ultimo, with which vou rransmitd
a copy of a letter from Mr Samuel
ompers, president or the Mne* icar
deration of Labor in v.-hie:; -tones
- made that Saturday hr..t heiida>r be
'ranted to the ernj o. the uov
rnment throughout the year. Vou le
iuaat a report on Mr. compels -u%'
* . ?e?tion. '
- f find tfcat a rmtjoi ;ty-*>f the admits*
stratrlTe heads of the bureaus and division*
throughout the department favor
the fca .urday half-holidays throughout
the year, and it has been the experience
of the department that ve
lu.e been able to kor.p the business of
the department current during the
summer months when the Saturday
half-holidays are granted the ern
ployes. In fact, it has been shown
that the granting of Saturday ha'fholidays
during the summer months
has served as an incentive for the
clerks to put forth their b^st efforts
in order to keep the work current.
Report by the Director.
"The'director reports that should the
Saturday half-holiday bo grant, <1
throughout the year the bureau of engraving
and printing would be compelled
to reduce it.: output or exit no
the hours of work on the other days of
the week from 4 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., or
Hit additional appropriation of f245.000
would be necessary in order to enable
ii. to turn out the amount of work now
estimated to be required. Some o: the
other bureaus of the department would
also I Mi obliged to put in some overtime
work From past exp rience. I
believe, however, that this service
would be cheerfully done bv the employes
of the department.
"I am in favor of the proposition as
a general principle, and I hope the
President can s**e his way clear to
grant the request."
RUMANIANS ARE FIGHTING
GAMELY TO HOLD PASSES
Forced to Retire From Transylvania
Because They Were Outranged
- by Enemy's Guns.
BUlHAKEST. October 17, via l.ou.lon
4:31 p.m.?Austro-German attacks ir
Transylvania have b<*-?; repulsed b\
he Rumanians, the war office announced
today. The Rumanians ar<
holding their positions west of the
frontier.
IXiNOOX. October IT.?The n??.
patches from Bucharest ?how I ha1
fighting of an extremely bitter character
still is going on in ail the Tranyylvanian
passes. According to news
dispatches the Rumanian retreat trorr
V Transylvania was chiefly due to th<
heavy guns of the Austro-Germnns
which outranged the Jiumanian artil
Ury.
Bucharest dispatches generally re
garb the situation optimistically. The]
^ point out that it is only necessary fo
th** Aumanian forces to hold out ;
short time before the cold weather set
i:;. Tn*- winter will enable the shiftinj
of numerous Rumanian formation
from points where winter campaign;
are impossible.
A wireless message from f'etrogra*
states that the Teutonic lines ii
imbrudj;. have been w.thd ?\v:? to in
vicinity of I>obrieh (Bazardjik) in th
southern portion of the province.
ECHO OF CAVELL CASE.
Eugliih Dentist to Be Tried as ai
Alleged Conspirator.
liON'DOX. October 17.?A court
martial will assemble at Brussels to
day for the trial of fourteen person
accused of conspiracy, according &
news dispatcher from Rotterdam. Th
dispatches way that the prisoners in
elude J>r. Bull, a wealthy Eiigiishmar
who is charged with having provide
Nurse Edith Gaveli with funds to as
sist in the escape of Belgian soldiers.
a I>r. jBuil. who was formerly dentis
r to the. Belgian royal family, will hav
the assistance of United States Min
ister Jirand Whit lock in his defense
the di?patchoa say.
f '
. I.- ....
^RAILWAYOFFICIALS
DISCUSS ECONOMY
|
i
; Passenger Traffic Association
i Is Considering Plans for Reducing
Expenses.
IN SESSION IN THIS CITY
j Tht^ most up-to-date word in business
| America?"Economy"?marked the opening:
sessions at the New Willard Hotel
! today of the convention of the American
| Association i3f Passenger Traffic Officers,
i and will mark the remaining sessions,
which are to continue until Thursday,
officers of the organization said.
. The delegates, big railroad men from
i all over the United States, Canada,
! Mexico and Cuba, assembled on the tenth
| floor of the Willard at 10 o'clock this
; J morning, Alexander Hilton of St. Ljpuis,
i president, in the chair, to listen to an
j invocation by Rev. Roland Cotton Smith
j of St. John's Episcopal Church. At 12:30
' p.m. the delegates and the woman
| members of their families were guests
j of a reception and luncheon in the red
| room, tendered by members of the
; j Chamber of Commerce of Washington in
j conjunction with members of the Wash:
ington Board of Trade and the Retail
j Merchants' Association. This afternoon
j there will be sightseeing trips, and tonight
a reception and dance, followed by
| a buffet supper, ai hotel.
Talk of Universal Telegraph. Code.
The sessions of the convention are
! behind closed doors, but \V. C. Hope,
I secretary of the organization, said that
| one of the possible methods of economy |
i that are under discussion is a univeri
sal telegraph code, the use of which
i would save the railroads many thousands
of dollars annually. A number
I o railroads now use a telegraphic
; code, but they vary and are not in eom|
mon use, and it is hoped to devise a
' code that all the railroads may use.
! Another item of possible economy
i that is under consideration is a plan to
cut down the large wastage on railoari
time tables, such as are placed in
hotels and other public places, many
| which are carried off by persons who
| have no actual use for them. A pro
; remove offices to low-rent districts rs
also under consideration, as well as
uniformity of baggage rules,
j Lessons learned during th* recent
i mobilization of the National Guard on
; the Mexican border also are under
consideration. It was said the speed
j with which cars were furn.shed and
roop trains dispatched was "generally
j very satisfactory." and reforms plani
neci for future mobilizations are minor.
Administrative Problems.
I '.lost of the discussions were of techJ
nical administrative problems in which
i '.he jya?t!c J&JWSLASSVjgtoJMffeS* 42.
Trkilr.^ oiKials. Charges'iBa?**
' era! passenger agent of the Bostdn and
Maine, now vice president of the or- !
i gariization, will become president in sue- i
cession to Mr. Hilton, according to a
i rule of the organization.
While the passenger traffic officers
were starting on the hrst day's
( work of their convention, other ?ffi;
cials from many roads?the railway
financial officers of the country, such
1; as treasurers, etc.?were arriving in
, Washington and registering at the
i Raleigh Hotel, their headquarters, for
i another railroad officials' convention,
i to begin there tomorrow morning. This
; is the Society <>f Railway Financial
; Officers, which will be in session at the
! Raleigh until Friday afternoon.
.
BODY OF NORMAN PRINCE
j IS TO BE BROUGHT HOME
! American-French Army Aviator
Died Just After Receiving- Cross
I }
of Legion of Honor.
| BOSTON. October 17.?The body of
! Norman Prince, the American aviator
j who was fatally injured last week
' i while operating an aeroplane in a
! French air raid on Oberndorf, will be
brought to this country for burial. Ar;
rangwnents for the shipment of the
body will be made by Frederick Prince,
1 ; jr., a brother, and Charles Prince, an
uncle, who took charge of the body of
i tir airman after he died in the hospital
in the Vosges Sunday, shortly
.ifter the Cross of the Legion of Honor
had been pinned on his breast.
It was said today that no plans for
the funer&r would be anounced until it
: was known when the body was expect|
' ed to arrive in New York.
Prince had taken part in a great
aerial raid, which had been followed
- by a stirring fight, in the air between
? the entente allied aeroplanes and German
machines. He suffered injuries to
; r.e head, which apparently were the
direct cause of his death.
duel, the American pilot kept his gun
going, warding off hostile craft which
- had ascended to fsttack the French
bombarding squadron. He remained
J long in the air, coolly facing the fire
of the Herman machine guns. Finally,
1 in attempting to land, he struck an
* atrial cable,, the mischance, it is
thought, being due to the injuries that
he had received in the fight, lie was
" pick'-d up in an unconscious condition
and died apparently without suffering.
'f BOCSEVELT ON TEN-DAY TBIP.
Will Go ps Far West as Denver Campaigning
for Hughes.
s M:\V YORK, October ?.?Col. Theodore
Roosevelt left today on a ten-day
;i campaign trip for Hughes that will
- . take him as far west as Phoenix, Ariz.,
e ; arid Denver. The colonel started in a
! private ?Jar attached to a regular train
for Ix>uisville. where the lirst speech
! of his trip will be delivered tomorrow
: night. Thence he will continue by
1 special train direct to Phoenix. After
I his address ti ere he will stop to speak
I at Albuquerque on his way to Denser.
Heaving 1> nver on October 24, he ex~
{ peciy to arrive in Chicago October 20,
j and leave there for New Vork on the
s | following day, arriving heme OctoJ
b?-r ->
! | Hopes to Take Americans to Front.
i, j NKW VORK, October 17.?A. Piatt
d Andrew, chief inspector of the Ameri
man Ambulance Corps in France, hopes
to take back with him fifty additiona.'
t men when he returns to France two
e months hence. He Kays the corps now
- has 112 Harvard men and that flfty?,
one American universities and colleges
are represented in it.
I
1
'MILITARY IRAK
IN SCHOOLS, TOPIC
j College Heads Confer With
| War Department Officials
on New Defense Act.
MANY PLANS DISCUSSED
| Military education for college stu.
iionts. Durticularly the reserve officers'
j training: corps system provided by the
| new national defense act, was discussed
by nearly a score of university
and college presidents meeting here today
with War Department officials at
j the Army and Navy Club.
I The presidents obtained explanations
on which they will base recommendations
of systems of training for their
I respective institutions.
! Representatives of most land-grant
colleges where military drill already
is well developed predictei their
ischools would institute the four-year
j course provided by the army act to
train junior officers for the regular
! army reserve. This plan would require
j the War Department to provide equ'p!
ment and pay for advanced students.
Land-grant college presidents also
!were enthusiastic over a p.oposed
course for reserve army engineers.
For Summer Camp Plan.
Presidents of some institutions which
j now have no arrangements for military;
j training favored inauguration of tacj
tics study and drill without the reserve
officers' system, and others declared
their schools could best develop
j the summer training camp plan. A few
i said only theoretical study of military
affairs could be established at first.
| War Department officials received
| suggestions for co-operating with col1
leg *s in establishing varying grades
{of training. The meeting was called
by Secretary of War Baker, but in his
j absence Assistant Secretary Ingraham
I and Maj. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff,
presided.
Among those invited were: A. Lawrence
Lowell, Harvard University; Arthur T.
Hadiey, Yale University: J. E. Raycroft, i
Princeton University; H. R. Hutching,
University of Michigan ; W. O. Thompson,
Ohio State University ; Edmund J. James,
University of Illinois; Benjamin Ide
Wheeler, University of Califo^iia; George
I H. Denny, University of Alabama; E. W. 1
I Nichols, Virginia Military institute; J- ?. I
1 Kirkl&no, Vanderbilt University; A. C.
j Humphreys, Stevens Institute of Teehnol!
ogy; Henry S. Drinker, Lehigh University;
Edward A. Pace, Catholic Univerjsity;
Brown Ayres, University of Tennes- j
| see; W. 3ML Riggs, Clemson Agricultural
I College; George E. Vincent, University of I
j Minnesota; Elmer E. Brown, New York1
j University; Granville Clark, J. Lloyd
Derby and l3e Lacy K. Jay of New York, !
respectively secretary of the governing;
j committee, treasurer and executive secre!
tary of the Military Training Camps Association.
| Further Acceptances Received.
?&&&** accep^^ges {rom college of^
I fteTals re quest ea to attend the confer- '
j c-nce were received todaay from Prof,
j P B. McKibbin of Lehigh, Dr. George
E. Fisher, University of Pennsylvania;
j Dr. Thomas A. Storey, College of the
j City of New York; Dr. David Kin ley.
University of Illinois, and Mortimer E.
Cooley, University of Michigan.
In several instances officials who had
j previously accepted found it impossible
to attend, and named other repre<
sen tat Ives.
| Maj. Gen. Tasker H. Bliss, assistant
; chief of staff, and Maj. Gen. Leonard
i Wood, commander of the Department
j of the East, were among the army of
fleers attending.
I Practically the entire personnel of
i tu.. -.nr.v <roli?.rfl 1 ?t r. f7 thf Wl. ? 4 -
; leg'-, chiefs of War Department bu|
reaus ami others of higher ranking
| grade:- attended the meeting.
. Assistant Secretary Ingraham entertained
the conference at luncheon.
Committee to Investigate.
After the conference it v/as determined
to appoint a committee to go
further into the matter. A general
j order will be issued by the War Department
after the college presidents'
views have been given consideration
prescribing the requirements for the
course which must be taken by the
students who desire to become reserve
officers. Maj. Gen. Wood, after the
i meeting, said that every effort would
ibe made to prescribe a course which
could be met without hardship by the
various universities and colleges.
HE SCOFFED AT AEROPLANES.
:
iBut Commander of Zeppelin L-32
Met Death Battling One.
j BERLIN, October 16, via London, OeI
tober 17.?The commander of the Zeppc|
lin L-32, one of the two destroyed in the
i raid on England September ?3, was Lieut.
| Werner Peterson, who, in September,
i 1915, gave to the Associated Press an extended
account of the repeated visits of
i German airships to the British capital
1 and coast towns.
i The L-32, according to the official statej
merit issued by the British government,
j was finally- destroyed by an aeroplane
! after passing through terrific gun fire.
| All the officers and men perished. The
second airship was hit by gunfire from
j the London defenses and forced to dej
scend irt Essex because of loss of gas.
I It was there blown up.
| In his statement to the Associated
j Press in September, 1915, Lieut. Peterj
son declared that he attached importance,
j in hespeet to defense measures against
j dirigibles, only to artillery fire supportI
ed by searchlights. As to attacks by
j aeroplanes, mentioned a number of times
i in press dispatches, the German comi
mander relegated these* to the realms of
j fables. He said he had not known of an
j attack of this kind In any of the raids
j on England, nor had he ever seen a
j hostile aeroplane in any of his various
excursions thither.
!
Bishop Gets Cross for Valor.
| PARIS, October 17.?Mgr. Emile
> Lobbedey, Bishop of Arras, has been
I decorated with the cross of the Legion
{ of Honor for the heroism and devotion
with which he remained at his post of
duty under fire at Arras amid the
I first lines from October, 1914, to June,
J 1915.
National Safety Council Meets.
DETROIT, October 17.?-With "uni!
verscil safety" as Its slogan, the< najtional
safety council began its fifth an|
nual safety congress here today. The
sessions will continue throughout Friday.
A feature of the sessions is ex!l
pected to be the report of the danger
signs committee, which will be presented
at a special,meeting this evening.
The committed proposes the adopItion
of one type of sign which will be
instantly recognised in any land and by
any human betag as-a warning of dan*"
' , I
j
hhu>! _
I WANT A { >
FELLOW \ ft
THAT CAHjV ?
THR<^d\fV
TIJK MANvo ^
/Ca npi pat e. n
/ for; the t^-'v
??-^
^SeV
| < j
I
GAINS FOR ALLIES
IN SOMME BATTLE
Official Reports Issued in London
and Paris Tell of
J*. - - . . r . . - - 4
Progress.
FIGHTING TERMED TERRIFIC |
LONDON, October 17, 12:40 p.m.?"En- i
emy trenches were entered by us west of ^
Serre (north of the Ancre river)," says j
today's official account of operations on |
the front in France. "Otherwise there '
is nothing to report.'
French Continue Progress.
PARIS, October 17. 12:30 p.m.?Another I
group of houses in the village of Sailly- !
Saillisel, on the Sornrne front, was cap- j
tured last night by the French, the war j
office announces. A strong German I
counter attack was repulsed.
The statement follows:
"North of the Sornrne we occupied a ;
new group of houses in Sailly-Saillisel. ^
The enemy this morning delivered a j
violent counter attack and succeeded j
in penetrating a portion of our front J
line. An immediate counter attack en- j
tirely drove him out. The number of i
prisoners made yesterday in the course j
of our counter attack was ninety. We '
captured two machine guns.
'South of the River Sornrne a fresh
! attack on our positions east of Berny- ;
En-Santerre was "broken by our fire. j
"On the rest of the front there was ;
intermittent gunfire."
Says Attacks Broke Down.
BERLIN. October 17, via London, 4:45 j
p.m.?Attacks of the allies yesterday I
near Gueudecourt, on the Somme front, i
broke down under the German fire, the 1
war office announces. The German positions
on but11 sides of the Sommc
were under heavy artillery fire the I
whole day. |
I
! German Account of Terrific
A i~~ iUn
i riyiumy Hiuny mc ouiiimic
Lauds Valor on Both Sides
j BERLIN, October 17, by wireless to1
j Sayville.?"Detailed reports about re- j
.cent fighting on the Somnle front show I
| distinctly that, the attacks between October
9 and October 13 are to be reckoned
among the greatest actions of the
whole .Somine battle," says the Overseas
News Agency. "The objectives of
theie great French and British efforts
were Bapaume and Peronnc. Moreover,
numerous hostile attacks of violence
were directed against the front from
Courcelettc to St. Pierre Vaast wood,
north of the Homme and between
Fresries and Mazanoourt, and against
Ohaulnes, south of the river. Of these
j engagements those north of the .Somme
were most severe.
| "October 9, 10 and 11 the main ccn- J
ters of combat were north of ThiepvaT.
north of Courcelette, near Sailly-Sail-1
lisel and in the vicinity of the St. j
Pierre Vaast wood. October 13 a great
and well co-ordinated attack was
launched over the whole front from
Courcelette to Bouchavesnes." I
Speaking of the attack on October 12,
the news agency says: i
"The defenders of the Homme front had .
thought it impossible that the violence of '
the artillery fire in the great attack early .
in October could be exceeded, but nevertheless
even this was surpassed. j
Withstood Terrific Fire.
"In spite of the terrific hail of iron the
British and French did not succeed in
reducing the German positions to such an
extent that they could be stormed.
French and British infantry in compact
waves charged the German positions, but.
were speedily brought to a standstill by I
the German curtain of lire. |
"Notwithstanding their heavy losses,
?
i tUOT \
^ REFUSES
they attempted one attack alter another.
Near Sailly-SaiUisel six charges were
made. All failed completely, with the
heaviest losses for the enemy. German
infantry left their shelters and, standing
in the open, shot down the enemy columns
with rifles and machine guns."
The effect of the German fire on the
French and British, the news agency
says, "was simply shocking." The account
continues:
"The Germans had not lost their energy
and will, notwithstanding days of
the heaviest shelling, lack of sleep and
the impossibility of obtaining sufficient
food on account of the interr pto
comitHimeaGoa* *eaemy
diSpfcopad r mar.k&bh- tepaci.ti, but
more rfefnarkable was the bravery pr
the Germans, feho not only had to defend
positions against superior numbers.
but were called on to make eoun
ter attacks and expel the enemy wherever
he succeeded in gaining a foothold
in the German line.''
Whote Columns Mowed Down.
Whole columns of French and British
were literally mowed down by the German
lire, the news agency says, and in 1
the places where the lighting was j
fiercest, especially before St. Pierre ;
Vaast wood, barricades of corpses were j
piled up. The account continues:
"The enemy's attacks abated some- i
what on October 3:>. He concentrated j
his efforts against Sailly-Saillisel and !
St. Vaast wood, as well as the district
east of Eouchavesnos.
"There is no possible doubt the enI
cmy attempted to reach a decision
with this enormous effort. Kspecially
i on October 12 he planned to breakthrough
on the largest scale. All prls:
oners declare that the losses of the
enemy, especially those of the British,
reached an amount heretofore unknown.
Reports of German troops
I fully confirm this. Prisoners state
I French infantry companies now number
hardly fifty men. The commander
1 in order to stimulate the courage of
S the troops had alcoholic drinks distributed
profusely among them before
' the charge. This fact shows better
than anything else the real morale of
the French troops. Prisoners speak of
the attack as 'hell on the Sonirne,' and
useless slaughter.'
"Under the circumstances it is easily
; understood why the French and British
reports hardly touch on the events
of these days or are completely silent
in regard to them. The days of October
9 to October 10 were first-class
fighting days. They brought full success
to the German arms and complete
I defeat to the French and British. The
tragedy of the Somme seems near a cliOIL
COMPANY REFUSES
DEMANDS OF STRIKERS
BAVoNNi:. N'. J., October 17.?The
demands of the striking Standard Oil
employes again were refused today,
when a committee representing the
strikers conferred with George Hennessy,
superintendent of the Standard '
Oil Company's main plant.
Supt. Heanessy informed the committee,
it was reported, that he would
deal with them when they dropped their
wage demands. He said the company
was ready to grant or arbitrate the
other demands regarding working conditions
and rearrangement of hours.
The strikers want 20 per cent more for
those receiving $3 a day or upward, and
30 per cent for those paid less than $3.
Mr. Hennessv said the company was i
lirininr, f.l/O ihf 111 ft 11 hflflr ? 4
the wages which prevailed before' the
strike.
SERIOUS FRENCH LOSSES
IN MACEDONIA REPORTED
! SOFIA. Monday, October 16. via London,
October 17, 3:05 p.m.?Enormous
looses were inflicted on French troops
in the attack oWast Saturday upon the
Bulgarian line? along the MonastlrFlorina
railway line on the Macedonian
front, the war office announced today.
This attack was repulsed, as were assaults
by the Serbians In violent at|
tempts to break the Bulgarian front
| on the PAver Cerna between Brod and
! Skochivir. on October 14 and 15, declares
the statement.
Artillery Duel in Macedonia.
PARIS, October 17, 12:30 p.m.?Vio|
lent artillery lighting is in progress
j on the Macedonian front. In the region
ot the Cerna river the war office
| reports the Serbians checked a Bulgarian
counter attack.
#
FTT
i I
& I
MATE #
fe/ !
)
GREECE IS FACING
JINHJIfWADPDIQIQ 1
n mlvv if mi umuiu
1
Note of "Extremely Grave i
Character", !? Delivered by
the Entente Powers.
i
1
REPUBLIC NOW ADVOCATED j
1
L/ONDON, October 17.?The Greek sit- \
uation apparently again has entered a 1
critical phase. 1
Following yesterday's advices that the j
entente powers had formally recognized 1
the provisional government set up by i
former Premier Venlzelos and his followers
in the Island of Crete, news dis- <
patches from Athens today report a new 1
note of "an extremely grave character,"
handed the Greek government by Vice *
Admiral Fournet, commanding the entente
fleet, causing King Constantino to
return hurriedly to the capital.
PnhUf. PnilfHn<To I
The railway stations of Athens and {
Piraeus, the city hall at the capital and ,
the Castalla barracks have been occupied
by French and Italian sailors to the
number of 3.000, while 150 bluejackets
with two machine guns have been stationed
In the municipal theater, according
to a Reuter dispatch from Athens j ]
today. The city is quiet. An urgent 1
cabinet council'has been summoned. ]
It is officially explained, adds the dis- i
patch, that the detachments landed will ]
assist the police in stopping demonstra- <
tions which threaten trouble. 1
Battleships Taken Over. t
The entente allies have taken over ^
the Greek battleships Kilkis (formerly e
the United States battleship Idaho), the c
Leranos (formerly the Mississippi), and E
the Averoff, says Reuter's Athens cor- ^
respondent. c
Allied crews were .put on board the 1
battleships, the correspondent says, and
the Greek crews were landed and sent i
to Athens. *
On October 11 the allies took over
the entire Greek fleet except the Kilkis. . \
Lemnos and Averoff. This measure, it
was explained unofficially, was intend- *
ed to insure the safety of the allied a
fleet, as fears had been aroused of a
disturbance at points where the war .
vessels of the allies were anchored. |
Greek Republic Suggested.
"What stands in the way of creating a
Greek republic?" asks the Daily Mail in
an editorial this morning, declaring that (
a Greek republic was favored by Gen.
Sarrail, the commander-in-chief of the
allied operations in the Balkans, as well
as by ex-Premier Venizelos and other
Greek leaders. The Mall continues:
"Rumor says that the obstacle to a republic
is not m Greece, but in the courtly *
minds of statesmen elsewhere, for ex"- 3
ample, Viscount Grey. But it seems incredible
that the theory of divine right
ahnnM have anv considerable ?
in Kngland. If the Greeks want a re- 1
public, we see 110 reason why they should 1
not have it." .
GERMAN EDITOR PUNISHED. I
Published Story That Submarine J
Bremen Had Been Destroyed. 1
LONDON. October 17.?According to J
the Vossische Zeitungr, says p Reuter
dispatch from Amsterdam today, the j
commander of the second Germany
army corps has forbidden the publication
of the Pommersclie Tagespost for d
printing ah article entitled "Destruc- "
tion of the Bremen," the German com- *l
mercial submarine. After the article !f
appeared the newspaper received a D
warning for violating the censorship w
regulations. g
It is now established, ft is added, that f<
the news of the destruction of the tl
Bremen was Incorrect. si
FRANCE IS REBORN.
SO PREMIER SAVS
Greater and Better Republic to
Result From Great War,
He Contends.
MISUNDERSTOOD BY WORLD |
PARIS, October 17.?The remolding
>f French political methods after the
var. resulting in a concentration of j
government, is predicted by Premier!
3riand, according to a conversation i
he premier has had with friends
vhich is recapitulated in the Figaro
>y Alfred Capus, the dramatist and
nember of the French Academy. M.
?apus quotes the premier as saying:
"I do not pretend to do more than
sketch the main outline. As the result
of lessons which it cannot escape
[ believe our country will resume instinctively
the notion of direct council
md authority. There \vill be this dif'erence,
that, while under past regimes
his authority was imposed upon it
listorically and by custom, today it is
he country itself which demands it
from its elected representatives, as
veil as a more firm and concentrated
lirection of its business.
Thinking of the Future.
"You understand I am not speaking
"or myself. I am thinking of the next
?roup of politicians who will be in
power. They are bound to come on
he scene with a fresh outlook and
ess bound by opinions and doctrines,
vill submit themselves more easily to
;xperience. Our present political meth)ds
are not at all damaged by the
var. They simply require to be revised,
remolded and readapted.
"T nm mnvinnMl. for examnle. that
the spirit born of the war is about to
clash with the spirit of parochialism
md that it will break it. There will
>e substituted the action of public welfare
which has been lost in what one
night call the pulverization of efforts.
What will be wanted will be the concentration
of effort in the general interest.
"In my opinion the need of tomorrow
s to concentrate instead of disperse,
ind you cannot imagine with what
?ood will universal suffrage will accept
the principles. I believe it is
eady to do so now. Tho war has put
t in a state of receptivity, and it renains
only to speak to it clearly and
frankly and to awaken it to a realization
of its own condition."
Gains Already Achieved.
Speaking of the actual situation, Prettier
Briand said:
"I simply ask you to consider what
tias already been gained and what no
hazard of war can tAke from us. Compare
what France and Paris were In
Jilt?, 1*1*. with whaf they^are in October,
l&ffc. The truth is that w6 wegfe
not decadent, but that a new generaLion
had sprung up, more sensible, pertiaps,
to reminders of defeat; more serious,
more impatient than those which
tiad preceded it.
"German insolence had contributed a
?reat deal to this state of mind. And
is one, nevertheless, dared not to think
Df war, there resulted a continued conflict
between exalted imaginations and
humdrum routine politics. It was a
kind of moral confusion which manifested
itself by an acute need for distraction,
by a violent desire for the
new. the unexpected.
"So, again, it was not decadence; it
was rather anger driven inward?the
nld insult revived bluntly in the mind
t?y incessant provocation. And then
tve felt that the world did not appreciate
us at our just value, and that irritated
and hurt us.
Aspect Not Favorable.
"A nation seen from without has a
general aspect to which all Its citizens
contribute. It is that aspect firhich a
'oreigner sees and upon which he forms
tiis opinion. Well, our aspect was not
in our favor and that was because it
was not truly ours. It was distorted
>y an old defeat, and the truth is that
the day that defeat was wiped out
ivhen France showed by unheard-of
iieroism that she meant to throw off
the obsession?on that day suddenly all
peoples by common agreement reeogtizeri
their error as fecrards us ami th??
prestige of France has become again
extraordinary-?greater than it has ever
5een at any epoch.
"In regaining our individuality as a naion
we have reconquered at a blow all
>ur influence, all our attraction. That is
vhat we have gained and nothing can
iffect it. That is the moral work aclomplished
in these two years, not to
ipeak of the rest.
"The consequences? Incalculable. They
vill affect all of us, our advantages as
:itizens as much as our individual pros>erity.
They will affect labor, commerce,
he arts of luxury.
"The completion of the task, the crown ng
of it by victory, is well worth taking
ime and patience over. And if that vicory
is hard to win it is precisely on ac:ount
of its extent and of what must be
vrested from the enemy before It can be
omplete. For much depends upon it?a
ree existence, prosperity, social reforms,
l republic powerful and unchallenged."
3RINCE A. BONCOMPAGNI j
GETS MARRIAGE LICENSE j
%
Cardinal G-'bbons and Mgr. Russell j
to Officiate When Miss Margaret |
P. Draper Becomes Bride.
Cardinal Gibbons aiul Mgr. William T. 1
tussell will officiate at the marriage of !
.liss Margaret Preston Draper and Prince i
Andrea Boncoinpagni of Italy. The prince 1
;ecured a marriage license today at city j
iall, whither he was accompanied by John <
i. Cochran, president of the Franklin Na
yonal Bank. The license is directed to ]
dgr. RusSell and he will make the formal
cturn to the clerk after the ceremony. i
Prince Boncompagni gave his age to i1
?ol. Kroll, the marriage license cle;k, as'1
hirty-two years, and his address, 3 8 Via fc
loncompagni, Rome, Italy. The age of'1
-liss Draper, he said, was twenty-five!*
ears and her address, Washington, D. C j1
r- !i
Cossack Victory Over Turks.
PETROGRAD, October 17, via Eon-j
on. 1:42 p ni.?Heavy cavalry fighting i
1 Turkish Armenia, in which great! *
>sses were inflicted by the .Russians,' 1
i reported by the war oftice. Between j 1
[azat and AJamakhatun (flfty miles 10
'est of Erzerum) Cossacks made a i I
allant charge on a horde of Kurds jt
jr superior in numbers and repelled t
lem with great losses, says an official1 ?
Latemcnt. 11
t
WAR POWERS BALK
REUEFFORPOLAND
President Announces Failure
to uet turopean Belligerents
to Agree.
SENT LETTERS TO RULERS
LONG BRANCH. N. J.. October 17.?
President Wilson announced today that
his efforts to bring about an agreement
among belligerent nations to allow relief
supplies to be sent to Poland had
failed.
The President gave out a statement
saying he had received replies from the
rulers of Great Britain, France, Russia,
Germany and Austria-Hungary to
a letter he sent in July suggesting that
those nations combine to assist in
Polish relief work.
The statement follows:
"I have now received replies from
the King* of England, the President of
France, the Emperor of Russia, the
Emperor of Germany and the Emperor
of Austria to my letter of July 20, 1916,
in which I tendered the offices of this
government in negotiations looking to
a fresh consideration of the possibility
and method of relieving Poland. It
appears, I greatly regret to say, that
there are still important differences between
the allied and central powers as
plies may be sent to Poland. 1 am disappointed
that I have not yet been successful
in inducing the powers to conclude
a definite settlement."
The President's Letter.
The letter sent by the President to
the various nations, made publio today,
is as follows:
"Your majesty; In view of the overwhelming
disaster which has befallen
the millions of non-combatant inhabitants
of Poland, I 'feel Justified by the
universal and earnest expression of the
sympathies of the American people, regardless
of racial origin or political *
sentiment, to suggest to your majesty
that the subject of ways and means for
the saving of those people wno stifl
survive be given the further benevolent
consideration of your majesty's
government.
"While no one can fail to appreciate
the suffering and sacrifices of the people
primarily engaged in the existing
war, nor the differences in the way of
alleviating the hardships of those who
are the incidental sufferers of the
war, the death by slow or rapid starvation
of millions of innocent people is
so awful a fact that such an outcome
should be averted if it is within the
compass of human effort to avert it. In
the effort to avert it I confidently
pledge the co-operation of the people
of the United States if only the way
can be found to make their co-operation
effective.
Suggests Renewed Negotiations.
"May I therefore be permitted to suggest
that an entirely freSh consideration
be given to the possibilities and
efforts for relief for Poland, and to
tender the friendlv offices of this gov
ernraent in negotiating to this end, it
being understood that any plan proposed
shall be of such a character as
to be adapted to the accomplishment
of no other result than that of the relief
of the distressed inhabitants of
Poland.
"In conclusion. I can only add that it
is my 'sincere hope that your majesty
will see in this note no intention to
interfere with the rights and po'Hcie:of
your majesty's government, but
merely an attempt to express to youi
majesty the sympathy and compassion
for the starving inhabitants of Poland
felt by the citizens of th.- (Tutted State-,
?a sympathy and compassion which
they do not desire shall be evidenced
merely by our word, hut which they
hope they may be permitted to express
by assisting in the actual work of furnishing
food to the starving inhabitants
of Poland.
"I have the honor to be, your majesty,
"Faithfully yours.
(Signed) "WOODEOW WILSON."
Says the Democratic Party
Is the Only Instrumentality
for Promotion of Progress
LONG BRANCH. October 17.?1-resident
Wilson yesterday told a delegation
of independents comprising tho Wilsor.
volunteers that the democratic parly is
tho only instrumentality now at hand for
the enactment of "genuine, humane, Just
and progressive legislation."
The members of the delegation, ^whicn
included Amos Pinchot and Rabbi
Stephen S. Wise, came here to tell the
President they planned to campaign for
him "from the Battery to in
New York state, because tfcey felt hehad
given the nation "a square deal."
The President declared the real problem
before the nation was the uniting of
the progressive elements of the coafTtr*
He said the democratic party now is
overwhelmingly progressive and that
other progressive men should join with it.
Cites Question Before Country.
"The question before the country," he
said, "is whether it will retain the instrumentality
which has enacted progressive
legislation." He added the
leaders of the republicans are reactionary.
Dissecting the presidential vote of
1912, which he called "striking," the
President said that of the more than
15,000,000 votes cast. 10,000,000 were
east for the progressive candidates and
programs of the campaign, represented
by the progressive and democratic parties.
Of the remaining 5.000.000 votes
only .",500,000 were cast for the republican
candidate, "a most extraordinary
manifestation of the desire of the people
of the United States to move forward
along new and constructive lines
In respect of their public policy." He
said that for a long time the progressive
element had been the dominating
rh'. Ajtmnrratta nartv and th?
election four years ago showed the
strength of that element in the republican
ranks, as given by the progressive
party vote.
"Now, since then." continued President
iVilson. "this group in the democratic
>arty has had an opj>ortunlty to shov
he country whether it meant what It
:aid or not. and it has shown that it did
nean what it said, that it was a genuine
jrogressive force ready to do the things
hat it had promised to do. And who ar?
he leaders of the three and a half milions?
After Controller Williams7 Scalp.
"The men who can sum their desires
n three propositions. To put it as they
tould put it, they want the scalp of the
(resent controller of the currency?I can
?nly conjecture because for the first time
n many years he had obliged the banks
o obey the banking laws; knowing him
o be honorable, knowing diim to be efIcient,
I can conjecture no other reason,
n the second place they desire to get
i
