THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain to-day; to-morrow falrnd cooler
strong west winds; gales to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 64; lowest, 53.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pate is.
bbb Vollf aM s
Jstm.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 47. NEW YORK, TUESDAY. OCTOBER 17. 1916. corUr,,. . u ..-. p.. . nvrc ni? i. ,
FINDS GERM OF
POLIOMYELITIS
IN THE TONSILS
Dr. Kosenow Says He Has
Isolated Causative Agent
of Paralysis.
3IADK KXPERIMEXTS
IX HOSPITALS HERE
Minnesota Bacteriologist
Transmits the Disease to
3lany Lower Animals.
PKKVEXTIVE MEASURE
IS XEXT STEP AWAITED
New York Medical Men Be
lieve They Arc on Right
Track at Last.
Mcdlcit men showed keen Interest
yesterday when word reached this city
that Or. Kdwurd C. ltosenow, head of
the bacteriological department of the
Mayo Foundation at llochester, Minn.,
hail finally succeeded In Isolating the
term which, Judging from the In
variable results of many experiments.
Is the cause of Infantile paralysis.
The news of Dr. Rosenow's. experi
ments nnd discovered wan learned I
here through the fact that Dr. Hose
now hail Just completed and rend be
fore a Uxly of Minnesota medical men t
the results of his recent labors. !
Keii laymen have come to know some
thlrg of tlic Importance of the Isolation
of the germ of a baffling disease. Isola
tion does not necessarily mean that a
preventive will soon be found; but the,
history of medicine does show that once j
the dilative germ of diphtheria, typhoid
fever, scarlet fever and other diseases ,
hail been Isolated a successful preventive
measure for the disease was psrfscted
Simon l Immediately.
Research Work Done Iter.
Hew York city plays a Tfart In Dr.
Rojenow's work. Inasmuch as It was New
York Hospital that dug Into Its treasury
generously to the extent of 115,000 or!
more to help fight the local epidemic I
which has gripped the city during the
part few months. A pnrt of New York i
Hospital s contribution to the fight was
to Invite Dr. ltosenow here and then
plare Its equipment at his disposal.
The oW Orthopedic Hosplt.il buildings
st i:t East Klfty-nlnth street were re
opened last August, cleaned up and light
Irr Installed throtiRh New York Hospital
funJ. Then Dr. llosenow came on at
the Invitation of the local hospital and,
as li pointed out In tho paper which Dr.
ltosenow read before the Minnesota State
Medical Association, Dr. ltosenow. as
sisted by Dr George W. Wheeler of New
Tork Hospital and Dr. Kdward II. Towne
ef Hoston. began his experiments on a
s ale whit h h id been Impossible during
his earlier ixp-rltiieiits along the same
lines out In Minnesota.
tierm Found In Tonsils.
One very Important result of Dr.
r."s. new's work here during the past
summer he went back to Minnesota
etily a few days ago was the dls-co-ry
that Invariably the germ which
he has isolated was found In the ton
His of children suffering from Infantile'
pnralys s, the Inference being that the
tonsil plays an Important part In the
lotitrartlnn of tho disease.
Naturally the question has arisen,
therefore, n medical minds since learn
ing of Dr Itosenow'B discoveries
whe'her 01 not the removal of the
tonsils of ch Wren might not prevent
Infantile paralysis, Dr. Itosenow'B ex
periments here showed that children
suffering from poliomyelitis who were
rot making a good recovery showed
tr'King Improvement after the tonsils
had l.ni removed,
vi hut Mmly llevmlril.
nf 111 cases of Infantile paralysis
treated rtt the New York Hospital's
brant h hopttal In Kast Klfty-nlnth
street hy Dr ltosenow and his assistants
Hi1 re as only one child whose Innslls
had i.eeu removed before Infantile
p.irals had been contracted, anil In
'he , a where Hip single patient had
"Ultra, 'ed t disease after the tonsils
had been removed the- child showed
''!" a m.ld f inn of the disease and did
1"' suffer from paralysis.
"'a' plivseian believe, and doubtless
Dr Itooenmv would agree with them If
" Weie poislhle t Ket 1,1111 to talk for
lulli'.i'inn on tin- subject which be, of
curse w t do that a greater num.
;r 'ban 121 cases would have to be
M"ried i,urr.r.. ...... ...i ......
' ' i should be pronounced or, what Is ,
"!'" important, before a general re
vai of tonsils from healthy children
Hiould . countenanced.
I'rtviou to Dr. Hosenow'H experi
ments here Dr Klexner of the Hocke
'"er Institute and Dr. Landstclner and
I.'-vad tl abroad had succeeded In
iul.iMiiB monkeys with Infantile
- but had been unable to In
troduce the dis.nso ,,to any lower order
L,"".1"'11" "r 'osenow during the
h, u months here In Manhattan,
!ik.rv'T,' h:,H ,H'e" Hhl'' ,0 reproduce the
Lu, . y c,f ,ne "rganlsm he has
h, ,! ,'"' n,,l' I" thirty monkeys, but
cl.h 1 , 'U'KH' '"''H'. guinea pigs. alto.
emr in moro than sou small animals.
Too l.arjte for Filter.
J'ntll Dr Itosenow announced his dl
had"' t" '". " Ml""ot Physicians It
trVlt. .? I",le',1 ' pathologists gtn
"'l that lnfantllo paralysis waa an
il e,M.n '" w'hat medical men know
tllte,ah!e virus." or an Infecting
'xtremely small that It will
through niters of stone or clay and
i, ii. ! or Ht lea"t w'th "reat
im,ultv only through the lenses of the
e l'oilteH mlsrroscopes.
"Ul Dr itosenow In his paper tells of
Cwuiiiuiii vn fcioaci I'ag, '
SUBWAY DOOR TRAPS
M. D., TRAIN DRAGS HIM
Prisoner, His Foot in Peril
From Posts, Gets a
Thrilling Ride.
Dr. Ivan Halobmoff of Tacoma, Wash.,
WhO CAT11 P in V.w Vnil ft- 11 .
'''" ago. tried to Jump Into the last car
iiuruiDuunu suoway local train at
r ourteenth street last night through the
aide door.
The closing door caught the doctor
na succeeoeu in getting hla
head and moat of his body Into the car.
Despite his loud protests the train pulled
out of the station.
Dr. Halobmoff clung to a stanchion
and ahouted loudly as his feet were
whisked along perilously near the row of
Iron pillars outside the car. Hla cries
were so vigorous that ratrolman Mc
cormick of the Hamburg avenue station,
Hrooklyn, In the car ahead, heard them
above the roar of the train and pulled
the emergency brakes. The train came
to n standstill at about Sixteenth street,
and the policeman and guards pulled the
doctor Into the car.
At the Eighteenth street station Dr.
Halobmoff declined to be looked over by
an ambulance surgeon, saying that he
would treat himself, and left the subway
to pursue his Journey by a slower and
safer route.
CHILD DELINQUENTS'
NAMES PROTECTED
Justice Snnutel P. Levy, New
Hrooklyn Appointee, Bars
Court Publicity.
Secret proceedings are to be the rule
In the Children's Court. Hrooklyn, from
now on, If the newly appointed Justice
Samuel D. Levy haa his way. Yester
day he barred the court to the public,
Including newspaper men, and an
nounced he would continue to do so
under a power of discretion conferred by
the Intefdor courts law.
Justice Levy holds that publicity, as
It relates to child culprits, is a two
edged sword, cutting their reputations
to tatters on the one hand and slash
ing on the other at the moral foothold of
many of their weaker "little brothers."
If a boy gets Into trouble It Is likely,
according to the new Justice, to handi
cap him later on, particularly as re
garjls political preference or civil ser
vice Jobs. At the time, however, he
becomes a youthful hero to his as
sociates, who seek to emulate him.
Asked If he would close any other
courts to the public If empowered to
do so. Justice Levy retorted: "Ye, the
woman's night court It Is stain en
the city to see 500 persons sitting there
enjoying the narratives of unfortunate
Mil depraved women."
The only kind of boy that Justice
Levy doesn't like, apparently. Is "the
abnormal boy that wears curls, never
misses Sunday school and runs In the
house when the dog barks at hla little
sister."
'That kind of boy never comes here,"
Justice Levy said. "It's the normal boy
who gets Into trouble, and publication
of his mischievous pranks hurts other
boys nnd Interfere with the work this
court Is trying to do."
T. R. STARTS ON T0UE TO-DAY.
Colonel Will lie Arrompanleil by
Itecla II. 1'oat.
Col. rtooeevelt will leave New York
at 10:30 o'clock this morning on a ten
day speaking trip that will take him as
far as Phrenlx, Ariz., and Denver, Col.
He will be accompanied by Regis II.
Post.
From New York the Colonel goes In a
private car on a regular train to Cin
cinnati, where his first speech will be
made to-morrow night. He will then
tour Kentucky In a special train to clinch
the good work Mr. Hughes has been do
ing there. The principal speech In Ken
tucky will be made at Louisville. The
special train will take him from Louis
ville to rhferdx. with no stops scheduled.
Between Phoenix and Denver he will
stop for a speech at Albuquerque. Leav
ing Denver on October 24 he will reach
Chicago on October 2 and leave for
New York the following day, getting
home on October 28.
WILSON'S CABINET TOILS.
Itrennons Work la Sat at Capital,
hat CampalsTnlna,
Wabh inoton, Oct. IB. President Wil
son's Cabinet is leading the strenuous
life, but not In Washington.
The Secretary of War, the Secretary
of the Treasury and the Secretary of the
Navy left the capital to-day for speech
making tours In defence of the Adminis
tration. The Secretary of Commerce returned
to-day after a week's tour through New
York, New Jersey and New England
States.
The Postmaster-'leneral will address a
Democratic rally at Hockvllle, Md., to
morrow and later In the week will leave
for n tour through the middle Western
States.
Tho Secretary of Labor, now cam
paigning In the West and middle West,
will return to Washington about No
vember 1.
The Secretary of Agriculture will leave
In it few days for a campaign tour
through New England. The Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture Is making a
campaign trip through Iowa, Illinois and
Indiana.
The Secretary of the Interior is at
tending the sessions of the American
Mexican Joint commission at Atlantic
City.
The Secretary of State will leave on
Wednesday for a rest.
GERARD VISIT PUT'OFF.
President' Trip to t'bli-aan Delay
Amliassndnr's lleport,
Lonii risANCH, N. J Oct, Hi,- Janes
W, Gerard, American Ambassador to
Germany, will come to Phadow Lawn
Monday and give Mr. Wllaon a first
hand report on conditions there and on
International question, It was announced'
to-day.
The Ambassador will coims for lunch
eon and wilt remain most of the after
noon. The President's Chicago trip
caused a change In the plans to have
Mr. Gerard here thl week.
Mr. Wilson will make public to-morrow
a summary of the diplomatic corre
spondence between him and rulers of
various nations on the subject of Polish
relief.
I HUGHES HITS WILSON
FOR INVISIBLE RULE
He Points to Col. House nnd
"Unofficinl Spokesmen"
of President.
"HOSTILE'' OMAHA CHEERS
"Problem Avoided Is Problem
Solved," Held l'p ns Presi
dent's Motto.
Omaha, Neb.. Oct. 16. When Charles
E. Hughes arrived In this city to-night
he found that Democratic agents, spokes
men for the President, had done every
thing possible to create an atmosphere
of hostility.
Vlce.Pr..i.t... . . .
-"""nan naa cnargea
that he planned to dm in. im,..i c,.,..
Into war. Senator (lllbcrt M lllielienck .
had sneered ,i t
me... . HU8l,CR " WaU
oireet affiliations and Hitchcock's news-
paper, the VforM-llrraUl, had referred '
to the Hughes rm,,.i. ,, ,. '
"Wall stri
"all Street Special."
Ncbraskans had been told that Wood-1
row Wilson regarded Mr. JIuchea as the i
"representative of Invisible government."
Placards and newspaper articles had.
been spread broadcast rlvlmr mihtieitv I
to the President's fine reception here nnd
asking Omahans to compare It with the
greeting Mr. Hughes received.
Cheered by no, Odd,
Well, the result of this was about the
heartiest welcome that Mr. llURhes haa
received anywhere In the mlddlo West.
Flftyx thousand people thronged the
streets ami cheered him on his wav to
the Hotel rontenelle and cheered "him
again when he went to the Auditorium to
speak. More than 9.000. so packed In the
Auditorium that hardly anybody could
itniuiy nnynollV COU1I1
n!' . "tV. unl" ",e speech was over,
alMlllllllI.ft h m fill , 1, ...
Hl'iuauuen mm till the rafters rang.
v enter Him misrepresentations tie-
signed to Injure him among Nebrasknns
While he was almut It he expressed hi,
opinion of Mr. Wilson's brand f of "In
blV 5-"'" "''let, consists In
House In matters of state Mr. Hughes
said on this point- uugnes
"I confess that I am not onlv sun.rl.e.l
but amused at the character ot son e of
these pleas. For example, ft l" ,,o
In substance that If I am electeif to the 1
position of executive respons lb l lty tor
which I have been nominated that it wUi
X1U',!"
v hat a Drenosteriins iivffatin,.
I came Into public life long before
this Administration was thought of as
the opiwnent of Invisible government.
Tht fact that t w nnu.,., r in..i.i.i.
government was my title to public con-
iiurm-e. anu it was liecause 1 am nppii
nent of Invisible government that not
according to my liking. Indeed, against
my desire 1 nas nominated for the
i-resiiiency or tne United States
,.
"I know that we are In
danger of subversion of the principles
of pnvarn r.n, a., t
n,e, , iitnire io SUV I
that there was no Imun.L ...rM. .
that there was no Invisible ' siivernm.ni
In the State of New
rw i orK wnen 1 had
Id the executive place
d there will be no In-!
it In the fulled States
or to hold the position
York when I had 1
e executive place
the honor Io hold
In .New York, and
.i.ii.i. .... ...... .
,.n...i c, iiMiriu in me i nueii Mates
If 1 have the honor to hold the position
oi i-rrsiueni.
Itetort to Wllaon. 1
I believe In , ...u
constitutional , .... ...I"
Tovernm.nf the., . o in
??-"n.m'n',hroue.h ,n recognized offl-
tent of the f.o.,lV, ,rCC',ra ,0 ,h' '"
tent or the Constitution and the statutes, i
r.'.d. '.ha' ,h'
- - - .vsi( una ur"ii in I llrKr
measure an Administration of unnmcl.il
0,unri,nirii, ui mysienous influences and
f o'l. utf In -.. . I ... . .
v..,, citiiir kouo numor, that I
desire government through two houses ,
iiiei nui Hirer.
The audience caught the allusion In- matket.
stantly and shouted with laughter. Mr ' A report on the fiibjcct says that com
Hughes, carried along by his fighting merclal tests mnde In cooperation with
ardor, attacked the ArimlnUieiinn. .... paper manufacturer demonstrated thai
ord of surrenders, characterizing the
whole rerord as shameful.
"The motto of this Administration." he'
said, "l a 'problem avoided is a problem
solved,1"
r.xcorinnng the President's course In
Mexican affairs and toward American
business enterprise abroad, he condensed
his own purpose Into a pungent para
graph. "li must be known," he told the ni.
hans, "that In this bemt.ni, nr. a ml
,h . : - - "r.uiBinieic ami
inrougnout the world, American Uvea,
property and commerce tein t.
. ,, n.HC
guaniefi.
... C1 . . . . '.. """" statement I
tortrT """I'tu1 S,.:1"'' K"! '"iNew York to MM herco,ra.-t with the
, ,. iv mint nil II
and could not be done n,H.. ii,. im...
... ..... ,,,, ..riming wnat could
uw. wHh h..r "0,,e u,,der ",e 8hrn,an i
"I think I know nompthtnty nhmit 1
ntl-trutit law, and I -ay that nil thmv
have done
N to add a few vntrti Vira
to the law."
Z ?hes attacked the Adamson law
with
- in ii I UK laoor io lie- ,
U'nM nf II fl. rt fpaml n.l ,l,l ..
- "nn iciiuiK itu 'iiei'r
people that It merely brings up again!
our near oni rrienil that we cannot lose ln winnow wnen it was struck. Sud
the high cost of living," ' denly Mrs. Oliver W Stewart of Ch.
. I . ..... . . ! . I. . I . .
.Nrhrnakn's 1'rosperltr.
Mr. Hughes's special train ran nil dny
through one of the
the Wcit. over prairie rorn lands Htretrh-
Inir inimitably to the horlron and flat
. a table ton. Thr snnrinv nn .un,.
were bare In the fleldn, mere sentinels
for rpzlments nf tut imrl vaiimv
'kins, but the extent nf these fields, in.
gather with glimpses of barns fairly
bursting with stored grain, gave one a
notion of Nebraska's comfortable agrl-
ruuurai prosperity
iiiuuti irupcrii-.
nan mere neen a doubt of this, such
doubt would have been removed hy sight
of the farmers driving new automobiles
Into tho towns to hear the Itepuhllcnn
ciindldnte. At every stop to-day the
streets and public squares wero congested
W'tlll new .lift Nhlnv inp. nnl oil . ..1.1..L
,,,, VYIII1II .
wer.' nianufn.-tiirei! by the pacifist of De-1
trait, for some weie of tho most expen-1
sis maiio.
It is iiover ey for a candidate to call
for tarlrf changes In a land where gra'n
prices arn high intl the people nre fat
with geod, living, That Is about the most
difficult task a Presidential campaigner
can tackle.
Mr. Hughes recognised all this, but
nevertheless devoted almost his entire
day In eastern Nebraska to warning the
farmers that the present high prices are
due to the unhealthy stimulus of the
European war. His second main point
was that the President deliberately
spurned the appeal of the farmers Io be
Coitflnued on Third Pagi,
BIRD COLER LIVES IN
SPIRIT AT OLD HOME
Ex-Comptroller to Offer Novel
Defence in Illegal Regis
tration Case.
"I am living at 170 New York avenue
In the spirit, If not In the flesh," Is the
way Ulrd 8. Coler, former Borough Pres.
Ident of Hrooklyn, City Comptroller and
Democratic candidate for Oovcrnor, sum
marizes the explanation of his alleged
Illegal act In registering from an address
where there is now no habitation mere
ly tne ground work of an apartment
house. ,
The explanation was advanced yester
day on Mr. Coler's return to the city
from a short sojourn In North Carolina.
He will make formal explanation to
Magistrate Qelsmar In the Dates avenue
police court Wednesday.
"I am temporarily sheltering myself
nnd my family nt my country residence
nt Ciumel." was Mr. Coters explanation,
"but thllt Is lerultM tine rkMi,e
is giving way to an apartment house. I
shall en Into conn on u,in.,i.t- i.u
s.,aBlMra,e n'l,mi,r Just "hat the'sltua.
,l0" '" nml ",row myself on the mercy
of ,hc court' "mf " furniture Is
In storage only a block away from 170
Yolk av'nu. and 1 nm living at
,hnt address In the spirit If not In the
?""' 1 want 10 vo, ,nls ar na 1
have registered from the place that I
helleve Is my home."
CUT SUNDAY PAPERS,
U. S. BOARD.ADVISES
Federal Trndc Commission
Would Avert Suspension
of Small Dailies.
Washington, Oct. It?. rteductlon In
" " r, 'M.e,rt urn. ,.uir,.i A
means of conserving the news print
n.it.er sutmlv of ih. ,, ,.,! ,.
n
V ,r. ."'"''Wrs was recommended
I" 1 ,rnt t0"Uy ,,y ,he t''-
'"V C"""l" " " the publishers
?' ,h8
, 1,1 """l"0'' h Its Investigation
, ,f newil ,,rn, ,,r,.es the commission
h,f.VBLV'n '"'u consideration to pos-
, le '?fn3 of, D"vntlnr the suspen -
V' u,7 ,i l"'Vil"c'na prices The
l?T,nl l U,lo"1 1'a" ,only l" 'vlated
'o. ,'mMi ,'" U'0 HUU,Ut r reJudnK
has ea-fsr.,
a number nf nrnmlh.nl nt,Ktl.t... ...
. . .....v.. ......
gardlng way to reduce consumption In
addition to the cutting off of returns,
eliminating waates, 4c, which many
newspaper are leported to have done
already.
llelulntr lA III. f n ..... ,,
-
"These nubllshers are of in. nr.i,,i
that there Is still an opportunity to
'effect a considerable r,ln,.f i . i
sumption by cutting down the size of
ISiiiiiImI' n.Kitturrfr. -Th... I..I .1.-. .u-
,T 7 e.... trvi mat. me
elimination of certain fe.-iinie. v. ,,i,i
elimination of certain features w ould I
' ""c arprovn' BmI would not
Je,'r,ase the revenues of the publishers, i
i",,-,,. ,ii'iiu.ii nu wnuia not
J,''r'ne the revenues of the publishers, i
"TheHjier saved hy cutting down tho tr
Mle uf ""' l"r':,' Sunday edition eeveral(I
naK, lu'ul1 he sulllclent to keep a num-. "
naK
ber of smaller papers supplied for u
Mdernble time, i nlc-s present supplies
1 of nnlier run li. Ihi,.u..1 t..t.lMt. .t I
of ller can be Increased, which does
n","ow .". I'robahle. such unselllsh
un "e ? large city papers
appears to ue me only means that will
save many of the smaller nubllshe,'.
fr,,,n Sol"K nu of business."
"' "'" "'P Wa.se.
Specialists of the Department nf Acrl-
w,tuir ' n'u.nKru mm h sansractory
nll'i , I , i- ... V.i . . il. riai... .. .. . . I .
'i"-,i.' (..."-t i,,,, ,.e iiimuc iroin
hemp liuriN, the waste stalk fragments
,iiiiii.tu in iTeiiaring ine nore ror tne
hurds can be i educed chemically to
paper stock by the soda process under
Practices only slightly different from
'he employed for the manufacture of
pulp from poplar wood.
STONE HITS "DRY SPECIAL.'
I.nntlrlth, Prohibitionist Cnnillrin te,
ShotTereil by t.lnsa.
I'lrrnoiT, net. in. a missile, pronamy
in stone, hurled by nn unidentified man
.... ..i, .... . ....
Miipuci, ifi,iir.v me ni vtiniii'iv ill llin
I "dry special" train observation car Just
"Utsmo fort vvayne. inn, to-night.
i.aniintn, i-ioniniuouisi vue - rremnon -
(.11,111, tin, i , iiiniiiiumei o-e-l I eoiiujll-,
.i,.i ...,.,.11,1.,.. ..,i ,.,i,, ........ i.. ...... .....
: : .va';: f 'zTs of i
l!.irtt.T In thi tlnv. nt I Irevpiislmri? 1 nH
a nmn hurl vi'lled from tlio crowd' tluit
I.nndrith "ouch( to tU" At Port U'.'i vha
7,
lu linn'
'-"
Lnnrtrlth was sitting with his back to
,rinj .,is. iii, rr 1 niriilll I HI 1 Or I
cago. who was faclnc the wlnfkiw. saw1
u man step out Into the track behind '
u man step out Into the track behind
the moving train. Almost almultaneoutdy
n report was heard ana a shower of I
On. ,-lii.a f.ll nv.e T . 1 1. n.i t.. .
line glass fell over Landrltli nnd Mrs.
I Stewart.
BOY FALLS INTO AN OLD TOMB.
Hescued 'Nearly Wild With I'rluht
From Orevrsome Depths,
Twelve-year-old James Lucia, 52 First
eircci, nan a norriiyuiK experience last
n'sTlil wmio nc aim noy companions were
In quest of wood for a big bonllre. Cross,
'"f " vacant lot at the pout beast corner
f Second avenue and Second street, the
hoy suddenly felt the ground give way
and he wiin precipitated Into nn under-
eroiltwl viilllt nf lllleiixe Hitrbn...
' '- .......... .... . .........
"o was frightened by hlH full, but
more terrified when burning newspapers
thrown down by the other boys disclosed
on every tone ot mm piles or Pones,
human skeletons, grinning akulls, coffins
falling Into plecci nnd barrels spilling
over with hones. He was rescued nearly
wild with fright by the police of the
Fifth street police station, Tho vault
Is supposed to have been a part of the
old Marble Cemetery.
John I), on Way In I'orantlco.
Ci.kvki.anp, Ohio, Oct. 16. John D.
rtockefeller concluded his summer visit
here to-day, leaving for Pocantlco Hills,
N. Y late thla afternoon. A slight ac
cident to the locomotive on nls train de
layed his start bait art tour,
' " ' " VlJ. Jy (Hr ,d NB-h J-,,,, ,.KNTS
WAR MAY END OPERA
SAYS GATTI-CASAZZA
Impresario Expects That New
York Will Have Nono
Next Year. '
HE TELLS OF HIS ORDEAL
Jlctropolltnn's Ocneral Mana
ger, Just, Arrived, Shows
Effects of Labors.
Olnllo Oattl-Cnsazza, Impresario of
the Metropolitan Opera House, who re
turned yesterday with Enrico Caruso
and other notables on board the French
liner Lafayette, says If the war In Eu
rope continues two years more, which
he believes Is probable. It will be dlfllcult
If not Impossible to maintain the opera
here for the lack of artists. He will be
ahlo to get along this kcisoii, but about
next year he is doubtful and pessimistic.
The dlfllcultles In the way of obtaining
new material for the opera here are al
most Insuperable and Mr. Qnttl-Casazza
Is not even now assured of the return of
artists he already has under contract.
Some of his artists are being retained
for reasons best known to the military
authorities in the countries at war.
Many others are actually In service, and
for the men who are not engaged In
fighting It Is almost Impossible to get
passports.
As for the women ringers, he says
they will not cross tho ocean becauie
they are afraid. The men also are afraid
to come to America because they do not
know at what moment those who are
now exempt will be called Into the ser
vice and If they are not on hand their
property wilt be confiscated.
Pulnrro' Uncertainty,
Cllorglo I'olacco, one of the conductors
at the Metropolitan, who returned on the
"";1"c H air. (Jattl-Cisazza. did
time that he would be permitted to leave
The Metropolitan's season will be
opened .Monday night. November 13,
with Hlzet'H "Les l'echcurs de l'erles,"
one of the novelties to be offered this
season as an addition to the French
repertory, with Caruho. Hempel and De
Luca. Polacco will conduct.
Some time before the enrt nf ih. .....
'and as early In the season as possible
"r veltles will be sung.
I "France.ci da ltlmlnl." by Gabrlele
D'Annunzlo. set to music by Itlccardo
1 onal. will probably be the next pre-
I Ml ' !1 i . fl " lti"1""'
i . ....... . itini,,.
llihitfenla In T.nirtw" hi r't,it, n v.inu
has never been given In America, will be
produced In Herman, with Melanle Kurt.
Johannes Sembach, Herman Well and
Carl Uraun. Arthur Bodansky will con
duct. Donizetti's "L'EllsIr d'Amore" will
aiso oc irooncea ror ". aruso, probably
before January I, Lu-rezla Dorl. An-
also be produced for Caruso, probably
,nnln -oUt. Adamo Dldur and Luca
Hotta will also sine with Caruso In this
production.
"Thills." "t.altlne" nn.-t "t.. Va, .11
Lakme" and "Le Smzn ll
. . . " ...
Ugaro," also ncluded n the list of
Figaro," also Included In the list of
'""ei"" I'miniru ur mis season, win
"ot he given before January, sccordlm.-
.... - ......... , in
In lh. lltilireB,tel.i nu-ltii, l.i Ih. r..n tUtt
(leraldlne F.irrar ami Maria HarrlentoM,
no are u sine in tnep operas, win not
ron-,r,,urn before then. Farrar will sing in
Thais and Harrlentos In "Ljkme.
He Korea's Oprrn
"The Canterbury Pilgrim," the Amer
ican opera composed by lleglnald De
Koven to the libretto of Percy Mackaye,
will have Its premiere later, perhaps In
March. When he was asked who would
sIiik In the De Koven opera Mr. Gattl
rasazz.i said nolhliiK, but waved his
hands In expressive Ivtln gestures. The
new opera Is also one of his pet dllll-
ultles at present.
Mr (Jattl-l'aiazz.i received the news
paper reporters In his salon, which has
been redecorated In lavender since last
season, but the Impresario hlun-elf wis
surrounded with an atmosphere of blue
lies, several shades darker than Ca
ruso's new suit. He looked much less
robust than when he sailed for Italy last
spring, due no doubt to the worry the
war and the dllticultles of preparing for
the opera season have ciused him.
In Italy and France all of the singers
of military ago have been drafted for
service. In Hermany and Austria, he
says, tho singers ns a rule have been
permitted to remain In the theatres, but
they are not available for America.
Emmy Desllnn was still at her home
near Prague when she was last heard
from, hut that waa not recently, accord
ing to Mr. (iattl-Casazza. He does not
K.,". whether or
Know wneiner or noi ens in coming in
.,i, .mnanv
- f , ,. nmn
Metropolitan comp
n,,w .his cou,ry,
It Is said, has heard, through the State
Department nt. Washington, that permis
sion has been granted her In Vienna to
tX fct.
leave, oui no one in iin voiimry yei
rnnl tleiider In Mnnlch,
Paul Hender. who Is among the new
artists engaged, Is In Munich, but Mr.
artists engaged, is in .iiumcn, nut Mr.
Gnttl-Casnzza does not know whether
lie will be able to leave the country to
enm., In N'ptv York to slnar nt llin Mutm.
polltan. In his case the matter Is not
so urgent as In the case of Emmy Des
tlnn, as he Is not to sing before Jan
uary. The war, which he Is certain will not
be terminated before 1918, Is popular
with the people of Italy, Mr. (Inttl-Ca-sazc.i
says. They aro very eager to
light
Hut mention the military censors to
I lie Impresario and thero Is something
like nn explosion. Telegrams he wrote
were not transmitted until a week nfter
they were of any use. Letters he wrote
saying when he would arrive at any
place were opened by the censor and the
dales all scratched out,
So many other stupid blunders were
committed that ho heaved a sigh of re
lief, he sajs, when he stepped off the
steamship yesterday,
Mr. Oattl-Casazza said he knew noth
lug of the exploits of the U-S3 until he
landed In New York, Ho Is not so cer.
lain that he would have sailed from
llordcaux on the Lafayette had h known
that a submarine waa lurking In Amer
ican waters for allied vessels.
firent Snowstorm Near Calumet.
Camimet, Mich., Oct, 16. The heavl
est snowstorm of any fall In the last
ten years prevailed In this section of
the copper country to-day, Over two
Inchca of snow fell. Lake Superior ship,
ping was forced to seek shelter.
1 t . "
GREAT BRITAIN TO FLOAT
NEW $250,000,000 LOAN HERE
J. P. Morgan and H. P. Davison Make Arrangements
in London Terms Will Be Same as Former Issue
and Notes May Be Offered Before Election.
As a result of negotiations carried on
abroad between J. P. Morgan and H. P.
Davison and the Hrltlsh Treasury offi
cials arrangements are approaching
completion for the sate In this country of
another J2GO,000,000 oan to the United
Kingdom of Oreat Urltaln and Ireland.
The terms of the loan will be Identical
with those of Ihe K50.000.000 British
loan placed here last August, arrd which
has since been rapidly absorbed by In
vestors nnd financial Institutions. These
terms arc: Two year 5 per cent, gold
notes, direct obligations of the Govern
ment, principal and Interest payable In
United States gold coin without deduc
tion for any Hrltlsh taxes, redeemable
ut the option of the Government at 101
and Interest at any date In the first year,
or at 101 H and Interest at any dato In
the second year: collateral to conslBt of
securities of American corporations, or
bonds or other obligations of neutral gov
ernments, and bonds or other obligations
of Hrltlsh possessions beyond the seas
or substantial corporations In them,
Similar notes sold In August were
oversubscribed at S9, at which price they
yielded slightly over t'.l per cent, The
LEGION GROSS GIVEN
PRINCE AS HE DIED
Details of Younpr American
Aviator's Last Flight and
Duel in the Air.
Paris. Oct. IK. The cross of the
legion nf Honor was pinned on the
breast of Norman Prime, the ynunc
American nvlator. ns he lav on his
deathbed In the hospital nt Gerardmer,
In the Vosge. Prince had taken part In
the great aerial raid on the Mauser cun
works, which had been followed by a
stirring fight In the air between the
allied aeroplanes and German machines.
He suffered Injuries to the head" which
apparently were the direct cause of his
death.
Though wounded In the aerial duel,
the Amerfcan pilot kept his gun going,
warding off hostile craft which had as
cended to attack the French bombarding
sriuadrnn. He remained long In the air,
coolly facing the Are of the German ma
chine guns. Finally, In attempting to
land, he struck an Aerial cable, the mis
chance. It Is thought, being due to the
Injuries that he had received In the
fight. He was picked up In nn uncon
scious condition and died apparently
without suffering.
Comrades of the Franco-American
Aviation Corps, accompanied by several
French pilots, arrived at the (icrarilmer
Hospital this afternoon to make arrange
ment for the funeral. Charles Prime,
an uncle, received a special permit from
Gen. Joffie. the French Commander In
Chief, to proceed to Gerardmer. but ar
rived after the nvlator had died.
ALLIES STAND BY VENIZEL0S.
I'nriiinlly llecounUe Provisional
t.ns eminent In t'retr,
Lonpon, Oct. 16. The Entente Allle
have formally recognized the provisional
Government of Greece In the Island nf
Crete set up by former Premier Venl
zelos. capital of Crete, have been Instructed to
The llntente Consul at fanea, the
act In unison lu this matter.
An ofllclal statement lsued here to
day says It Is only In Crete that the
uuestlon of nlllclat recognition lias vet
arisen.
GREEK REPUBLIC LIKELY?
!lll Mnll" tlh.tai-lr io I
Korninlloii In lliirnpe'. Statesmen.
Loniion, Oct. 1 (Tuesday) "What
stands In the way of creating a Greek
republic' asks the Dnli .tfnll in an
editorial this morning, declaring that a
Greek republic was favorel by Gen. Sar
i nil. the comniatnlet -In. chief of Ihe al
lied operations In the ll.ilkans, as well
as by e-Premlr Venlzelos and other
Greek leaders. The .1uK continues.
"Humor says that the obstacle to n
republic Is not In Greece, but in the
courtly minds of statesmen elsewhere,
for example, Viscount Grey. Hut It
seem Incredible that the theory of di
vine right should have any considerable
supporteis In Kngland. If the Gteeks
want a republic we see no uason why
they should not have It."
"GOLD BULLETS" GERMAN NEED.
Chancellor Asks People to Turn
Over All Ornament..
Am KTKr.nAM, Oct 1ft. The .Vnnf
nViif.n7ir ,t llirciiirlnc Zclfinifj, a seml-otll-flclal
newspaper of Herllu, published
to-day a full page appeal lu large type
signed by fhaticcllor von Itethmami
Hollweg, nudolph Havensteln, president
nf the German Imperial Hank, and
others In behalf of the committee formed
under the presidency nf the frown
Prince for the collection of gold orna
ments to be melted Into coin. The ap
peal says :
"The sacrifice demanded from you is
light compnred to the sacrifices of blood
our heroe at the front continue to
make. Out, therefotc, with all the
superfluous gold ornaments and objects
fiom the trun and clipboard. Help the
Imperial Hank fill with golden weapons
the armory of German rcomimlc force."
GETS $8,333 IF SOBER 5 YEARS.
Otherwise Harold Hunt I to (jet
Only (lie liii'omr.
Wiiitk PLAIN. N, Y Oct. lfi The
will of John Hunt nf Mount Vernon, filed
with Surrogate Sawyer at White Plains
to-day, leaves his fS.'.nno estaln to his
wife, Satan, and upon her death one
third Is hold In trust for his son, HHroliI
Hunt, who Is to receive the Income,
Then the decedent says: "In case my
said son has reformed and become sober
mid Industrious and abstains from drink
ing Intoxicating liquors for u continuous
period of tlve years, then In that case I
do heteby authorize and direct my said
executrlccs to uy over to him the prin
cipal so held in trust for him."
niNVKY'N vWINKS tlll.tCK ANY T.tm.K.
Win. milkers fur 60 jears mount a Int.
Itl V?ttll,,n Ml.. M. V. Ilt. Inm rl.
' - ' - ,,, V-Ull,
notes have for some time been selling
at a premium nbovo Ihe offered price,
and It Was explained at the olllce of the
bankers that Great Urltaln naturally
desired tho same terms for the new
notes as for the others, for the reason
that any mom favorable terms would
tend to depress the market for tho out
standing notes.
It was Intimated that the new notes
would be offered before election. At
any rate, it was said, the election made
no difference, sltico n demand for the
notes had sprung up from all sections
of the country, and bankers In the In
tirlor In particular wero anxious for
more of them,
The flotation of the new $250,000,000
loan will Increase to approximately 1,
500,000,000 the amounts which this
country has loaned to foreign countries
during the war. Counting the 1500,
000,000 Anglo-French loan ns a Hrltlsh
obligation, and It may be so counted
since the obligations of the borrowing
countries arc Joint nnd separate, the
new loan will ralso to an even 11,000,
000,000 the amount loaned to Great
j Urltaln. In addition, there haa been
loaned to the Canadian Government and
Canadian municipalities more than
i J250.00i.000.
U-BOAT WAR URGED
AS STEP TO PEACE
Count Ik'vontlow nnd Prussian
Iiilierul Lender Assail
Cliaiuelior's Stnnd.
nnr.t.t.v, via London. Oct. 16. A
I latgely attended meeting of "the Inde-
pendent committee for German peace,"
I one of the organizations conducting nn
j licit itlon for a ruthtes submarine war,
was held here yesterd.iv. "Denutv Fuhr.
mann, National Liberal lender In the 1
Prussian Diet, ncted ns chairman. '
According to fho Tiiprlilntl'a report i
the meeting lnlste,l that unrestricted .
submarine warfare must be undertaken
j Immediately.
1 fount von Iteventlow, editorial writer
on the Tuie .rliimp, who was one of'
the speakers, added Dr. Karl Helfferlch. 1
Secretary of the Interior, to the list of
tindelrables, He declared that Dr.
Helfferlch was more dangerous than the
Chancellor.
REDMOND APPEALS TO IRISH.
lleic.
Conn tr; men to Kllll.t
and
Till Dlvl.lou". ItHllU..
Sprrinl Vnlilt le.i,irr, In Tlir Si's
l.osii.v. Oct 16 William Hedmond,
former member of Parliament, brother
of John Itedmniid, the Irish leader, who
tliniiKh jears old had served in the
lrl!i division nt the front fur ten months
intll Itijiirul, wiites a letter to news
papers eulogiz.iig the Irish division's
achievements ;lnd concluding with a
strong lecrulllng appeal.
"The division needs reenfnrcement at
once." he writes. "It would be like a
be'rayal of the heroic dead If the divi
sion willed has brought so much honor
to the Irish name should cease to be
Irish. Tlits must happen infvit.ihl.v un
less reenfor.vments come from Ireland, i
It is the confident hope of officers and 1
men alike Hint all who live In Ireland1
Will Ml' to thi".
"li It too much to nsk that all who
love Ireland will unite, Irrespective of
creed and politics 'o keep the Sixteenth
Division, the iris ivlslon, what It was
at Loo and the hard fought fields ofi
Gulllcmont and ilincli.v ?" '
BLACK TOM PERIL ENDED.
"",11'" ' HM'In.Ur. In .. V. r.
Iior in lie I'rolilblleil.
Sccietary of War Newton D, Itaker.
who h M-eklng vote In Jersey City for
President Wilson, .:iiil last night' that
theie will be no more loading of explo
sive), at lilack Tom or any other patt of
New York harbor He was speaking at
St. Patrick's Hall, which overlooks the
peninsula.
Mr linker said that as a result of an
Inve-tlgatloti conducted by arm ofliccrs
following the big explosion In August
regul i lions will be put into effect per-
mltlm? nntv "unlived' , ,,, It I.... .
low destructive power and In limited i
illlanlitle. to be loaded In Ihe !-,, ...a !
that the nnc.inrage below- the Statue of
MbeMy for ntiri.unltloti barges will be
abolished AnehoiMne t-i-mtn.l. ..-ill .A
c-iabllshcil in ltai lt.ni Hay and oppo- j
lte the mouth of the Inrhor. far enough
fiom any settlement to prevent damage. I
CRUELTY TO SERBS CHARGED. I
xnslrln lleiinrlliiu Men nml Girls, j
London llenr..
lech)l Vnl.lr ir.;.(ircA (h Tun Si v
I.ospon, Oct. li! A despatch to the
Diilp f.'xpirvs irom Geneva savs that I
the newspaper ,u Nn Me. published there,
says that the Austrian have begun em- '
ulatlng Ihe German conduct In Fiance by '
deporting voting mr'm and girls from Scr- !
hla to uiiknow n place.
Their purpose Is to disrupt families
and destroy tho Setbl.m national life, '
Tho American leptesentatlve at Pel. I
gride protested, the paper says, with
wh.vt lesult Is not known.
SPOT COTTON AT ITS HEIGHT.
Sell for 1T.I!J, n Itecord Price, on
.Mobile KxclmiiKC,
Monti R, All, Oct. ifi,spot cotton
reached a new high level lu .Mobile Io.
day. when It sold for 17.12 cents, the
highest lu the hlslor) of the Mobile ex
change. The price Is 12 points above the New
Orleans mark, which to-day leached the
highest point since the civil war.
a-til, null, 0110 Pnld for War Horse.
ICant St l.iil'IH, III., Oct, 1 It, Approxi
mately ::ri,nnn war horses have beep sold
heie since the war began. The total
sum paid for the horses Is about jln.
OOO.fWO, About ",0nn mules hnvo been
Hold fur a total of IMri.000, The Italian
Government has recently niado a con
tract for 3,000 horses to be tilled In
thirty davs, Hrltlsh, Fiencliand llelghm
bu.vcrs and agents for the I'nltod Stales
iirtuy me taking a total uf 2,000 horse
a week.
TEUTONS START
BIG OFFENSIVE
ON EAST FRONT
Strike at Itussiniis Along 75
Mile Line in the Car.
' pathians.
ADI TO CUT OFF
KU3IAMAX AI13IY
Fury v of Drive Is Concen
trated at J mid ion of
Entente Forces.
TKHItlFIC FIGHTIXft
KAGIXG IX PASSES
Hand to Hand Engagement
East of Kirliliaba Is Re
ported hy Vienna.
Lonpo.s', Oct. 11. A strong Teutonic
offensive has been begun In tho Car
pathians mid there Ik llcrco lighting
on ii seventy-five mile front from the
JuMonicu pass to tho r.umanlan bor
der. At the same time the Hussliins
further north nrc hurling columns
tig.-ilnst the Teuton trenches giiiirillnn
Hovel utnl Lcnibcrg.
The Austrian statement Issued to
night says that nt the southern end of
the line, almost on the Kiimiinfun fron
tier, tho Htisshins have been driven
back ncross the Noam Valley with tho
loss of 31S prisoners nml two machine
guns. Tho Htp-slnn statement of to
day says that "south uf Dormi Watrn
the enemy assumed the offensive with
great rorcesj. '
Further north In the I'nipaMii in Ihe
Aii'trlan finder the Aieluliiko I'hatles
Francis extended their siicce-s on Smo
tree mountain and took r. prisoners.
Kast of Klrllbaba, nt the entrance to
the Stlol and Kodna pas-es, which the
Husslans have been trying to force, ter
rific fighting took place.
1'lnht Itnue. fur Hours,
As soon as the Austi.aiw Hacked
Huslaii Infantry rhaiged to meet ihem
and hand to b unl ("ghllng rngi I for
x-veral hours The Itiiss a-.- they
took neatly 1,'nfi pnsuner-. i ,u".
trlati I. inn and tlve nn'.i-, gun.
Near I.udnva Havarlans capttite I a llus
sltiti position.
The region south of Dortia Watra,
where the Teutons aie ,ing It-
great force, wis the point , Junction
between the right wing of 'he Hu
manlnn northern armies aid Gen.
I.etchlisky's extirine lift. It appears
that the attack here is aimed ij sepa
rate the Russian and Itum iniai and
attempt then to roll up lioih .irmles.
The ltulan relre.il In the Ncgrn Val
ley may be explained hy th. fact that
the llnmatilan to the south i, the Call
man ( Kelemer I Mount ns have te.
treated to their fitmti, r. b av r g the Itu..
"Ian lines opoi to nttiuk. The ltussiau
left wing, whb h fonmily ic-tel op neii
tral Humanla, which the Ten could
not attack, now rests on ieiigennt Hu
manla, which maki the situation very
different.
It I believed here that vo'v son-i tho
full scpe of Von llliiilenburg's plan for
a big offenve In the e.ist w ,11 be le
velled. The strong attacks In tV Car
pathians, linked up with Von r.ilken
llBVIl's successful sweep to the Hu
manlan border and Von M.u kerson's ad
vance in the Pobiudja, now baited, are
believed to be pan of a i loidln.ited
plan to crush Itumama, and. if possible.
Itussla.
Slay llelen.e Mure Turk..
The Carpathian offensive also would
seriously hamper the sending of Husl.in
reenfoteenients in iild Itiimanla. unlrs
the new men an- dtawn from Asl i
Minor, as has been reported If ih
done more Tutks will be released to light
on other fronts
To offset the Carpathian Hilve Gen.
Hrusllnff, the Itusslm i imnrii'd, r. has
Inrrensed the vlolei ce of hi att,ic fur
ther north, lu Gallrli mi l Vol ,i. a All
the statements agree that heiv lighting
with great losses to ,oih s:dc I going
on III both the Knvel and l.einbt'tg i-ec-tois,
wheie the Itussiniis bold th iffen
she. The llusslan teport no sin-cos,
unl the Teutons say the l!u .if ,iH u'k
failed.
'Ihe Itiisslnn attack are m.ule ap
ptoxlmately at the same pu ts in tho
Teuton line that h ive In en nit irked 111
plevlons attempts to lunik enough, to
I.emberg or Knvel. In atl.uking toward
l.emberg the ltusluw me tlgnting at
Zborow, fifty mile eit of l.einlierg,
SOlltll of Il.ltll'Z, iltheilM nf l,ml,pg
and 'fm the N.uluvl. i In .iff i-Kii.t; to.
ward Knvel the Itus-lar are tight ug at
Korytnlza. south of Kovcl it.l o..rih of
Zaturze, where the ate di-mng for
Vladimir VolvnsM, south of Kovl.
Tile I'etruurnil llepurt.
To. day's litis. Ian statement -vs
On October II In the n g ,,i- of tho
Pnnly railway station a German aeio.
plane w as lilt by machine gun tire and
ile.reud.'il. The av latin were made,
prisoners.
In the region of Korytnzi stub
born fighting continue lltnun coun
ter attack wete lepuNed w th heavy
losses to him The enemv used hand
grenade, i liargnl with ,i,dn xlating
gases. The gallant legmii i I .1 com
mander. Col. Kuril!' IT, was wounded,
In the region of y.luuuH- nm tho
Tartiapol-Krasno talluav in Calicla,
east nf l.e'nbeig) oliHnit,, hintc
continue North of St.mislau (south
nf Hallcz) the enemy attempted to ad
vance from hi trenches but was
driven back by our tlio
In the region of Knrmnze and Klrll
balm the enemy launched tierce at
tack without success Wo look pris
oners 17 olllcers nnd 1,170 of the rank
and Ille,
South of Dorna Watra the enemy
assumed tho offensive with great
force.
To-duy'a AusUUn statement, Issued
