TFT ft A N C-rAL EDITION.
NIGHT
EXTRA
Stinting
f jTk am.
AJrtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOI. HI.-NO. 29
MANS BEGIN
iWOFFENSIVE
ON EAST FRONT
irdenburg Launches Great
Drivp Against Russia
and Rumania
MKME FIGHT RAGING
rlo-Frcnch Advance in Rc-
" sumption of Attack for
Bapnume
Yen Hindenbure's offensive on tho
t front, apparently designed not only
crush Rumania, but also to break
Ugh tho Russian lines in Gallcia
Lj'BMnii and thus compel n gen-
retreat of BrussilofT'a armies, is
way. Austro-German forces have
a terrific assault on a sixty-
front along 'the northwestern
ntier of Rumania and tho Russian
north of the Carpathians. Al-
gh Bucharest admits somo German
sses .against the Rumanians, Pet-
ad reports the repulse of enemy
ttUcks near Doma Vatra. Fighting has
lean resumed in tho Dobrudja all along
', line. .
The battle of the Sommc is again in
Jl swing. Violent attacks by tho
lollies and terrific counter-assaults by
Germans aro reported in today's
itches. The French and British
ftit pounding the Teutons west and
teeth of Bapaumc in their movement
i'te pocket" the town.
J French trOops advanced their posi-
in tho village of Sailly-Saillisel,.
beast of Comblcs, 'last night, Paris
dally announced, and repulsed sc-
e German counter-thrustsv
(British troops aro, advancing on Le
ati along' the Bapaume Albert
thus extending their offensive1
H of the Ancre brook. Tho canturo
t German trenches west of Scrro is
sorted by General Haig.
1 A semiofficial Teview of ihp Sommc;
mttonstby a German, military critic
wf(i that?. desnito the'.iocal .successes
gad by tho Allks'thclr'offcnsive'has...
IV-'-rr !i ?T
iv a lauure.
-, u
rONMSSAIL ENEMY t
ftOO-MUjE. FRQNTIN"NEW
JQRJVE W THE;EAST FRONT
-V,V - ,. y
t LQNDONf Oct. 17.
a Illndenburgla "Widely .heralded east-
i front, offensive apparently is under way..
! Teutonic forces are Attacking fiercely on
rttitj'-tnllo front along the northwestern
teaman frontier, At the same time they
.opened, heavy assaults against the
Jan lines north of the Carpathians.
. ""An official statement from the Rumanian
tWsr" Offlce this afternoon admits some
SAutro-acrman successes' in this new of-
live. Tlie Teutons have pushed down the
itus valley to, the town of Agas, where
1ky are engaged'-lnj battle with the Xlu-
alias. Berlin dleLtches yesterday re-
I that the Germans had broken through
rates Pais leading into the Trotus val-
rand were driving eastward toward the
!n railway supplying the northern Itu-
en armies.
, Tbe Hussion War Office, however, afi-
nced the repulse of all Teutonic attacks
: Dorna Vatra. It la In this region that
mm Hlndenburg U delivering his hardest
Wows, apparently nlannlmr to drlv k wedn
linen the Russian and Rumanian armies.
Austro-Oerman attacks nortli of the
raathlana apparently are to prevent the
ng of Russian troops southward to
I'the new attack.
In Dobrudja, fighting has" been resumed
een the Ituajo-Ilumanlans and the Oer-
-uiganan armies all alongAthe front
rnHiADELpmA, Tuesday, Qcrouim it, ioic
Cortnenr. 110, st ins rcsuo laeast Ceunxt
MUCK OITJB CJSWt
1
SLAIN BY STRANOEH WHO
DIDN'T LIKE HIS MUSIC
Brakcman Who Wanted to Be Pianist
Killed In Maryland
CUMBERLAND, Md Oct. 17 Harry
W. Mathews, a brakeman, who sought to
turn pianist, died today because a stranger
didn't like his music, according to the police.
Tou're a h of a player." shouted a
man who gave his name as John Whaun
streat, of Grafton, TV. Va. "Quit that
racket."
"You're a liar," retorted Mathews from
his perch on a saloon piano stoof, the white
continuing his drumming.
Whaunstrent flashed a raxor, drawing It
ncrosa Matheftt's throat.
BAYONNEBABtfSBODY,
IN WHITE COFFIN, REAL
LESSON, STRIKER SAYS
"Wo Want to Give Our Kids a
Chance and Keep 'Em From
. Filling Caskets," '
He Asserts
TWO CLASHES IN STREETS
SIANS CHECK TEUTONS'
'FFENSIVE NEAR RUMANIAN
FRONTIER; ATTACK IN GALICIA
IMTROorad, Oct, 17.4-A new Auetrd-
... oueniive near the Kumanian fron-
SeUth Of Dnriu VfltM ttaa k.m. f..Mi..j
. fmclally announced toVy. The
i.,r-- 'ww nyerai enemy attacKs.
Sir , . Ktorjtn,c nd near Bolehovoe,
" cpiing i -joing on. Fierce
iav .;i".v..vrr. r."" ",",ea
h.i Z: . ""0"v " mere was
toUrrption In the Intense bombardment.
. 33?"" . uura machine gun and
". -in ini region.
JP ,0ft. ltTha newly opened
' . "" veinynia M raging
"erg are either .the Ruselaae or the
r lines In great dwmm after artltlery
BAYONNE. N. J Oct. 17. A baby
size cuket, tufted with silk and satin. Is
on display In the oll-strlke district today.
Ragged urchins playing In the gutters
shun It with Instinctive dread, for they've
seen a lot of funerals with Just the same
kind of caskets.
That little casket has something to do
with the strike.
"We want to give the kids a chance and
keep em from filling those caskets," a
striker said as he walked along Twenty
second street, not far from the strike (one.
"And, let me tell you, a man can't, raise
n family on $1.50 a day or on S2 a day.
Thafa what this strike Is all about. Trices
are 'way up and a poor working-man hasn't
got a chance. It's hunger to stay In, so
we had' to 'quit and fight for a raise.."
The speaker's eye was black from a
strike fight he'd been taken for a "scab,"
he said. "Some of the Poles have mur
der In their hearts," he said, 'but the
thinking; men don't approve of trouble.
They're for peaceful ways. But I guess
maybe you'd understand If you had a .bunch
of kids and only 2 a day to raise them
with. Maybe you'd fight, too. And the
police were mighty rough with their guns
and clubs."
TVORKERS' TALE OP JVPE
Then"-th reporter paw more pialn, sysry.
day strikers. -They aliold.th same story,
'hungerjjijjead, .small wages tojneaJn-;
creased-prlces, police butaltty. '
A-'ollceman bragged. "Ta," h,e sneered,
"tl)ejKajn't'gotvany nght In 'em now.' Their
sand Is all gone, Yawe had to. shoot 'em t0
get It ouYof r'$m. 1
Hut Bayonne, with Its dingy houses. Its
crude streets. -Its myriads 'of ragged kids,'
hopea for better 'things.
'John D Rockefeller's making enough, on
his gasoline. Maybe he'll have a change of
heart, after a while," said one optimistically
DEMAND "TURNErj DOWN"
A flat "turn-down" of the strikers' de
mand and subsequent threats of violence
by the "employes in case of "undue" polfce
Interference were the net result of a confer
ence today between a committee of strikers
and. George B. Hennessy, superintendent
of' the Standard Oil plant here.
Hennessy told the strike that the com
pany refuses to raise wages and to rein
state strikers convicted of violence.
William Melcher, head of the strikers'
committee, was ejected from the conference
by Ilenneasy's order. He promptly called
a mass'-meettng of strikers for this after
noon. He said he would counsel modera
tion on the part of the strikers, but, added
that "If strike-breakers are1 brought here
to .take the bread out of tfie wdrkera'
mouths, I cannot control the situation; the
men will fight back."
The conference In Hennessy'a office ended
with Hennessy'a announcement that the
company was "not going to let any bunch
of men run Its plant" Then the com
mittee was shown out of the building.
Participation by the I., W. W. In the
TEN MEN JAILED
FOR AUTO THEFTS;
900 CARS MISSING
Youth Confesses, Police Say,
to Part in Gang
Robberies
FIVE LURED INTO -TRAP
Continued en ! Btren, Celinnn Three
More Arrests Expected as
Sleuths Uncover Whole
sale Prnctico
Joseph Callahan, a youth, living at Broad
and Cambria streets, was sent to Moyamen
sing prison by Magistrate Collins today In
default of S1000 ball, charged with being
a member of one of three gangs of auto
mobile thieves, whose depredatloan in this
city since January 1 have resulted In the
theft of more than S00 cars.
Callahan, according to the police of the
Nineteenth and . Oxford streets station
house, admitted his connection with the
alleged robberies and will be arraigned next
Saturday with nine other men previously
arrested, who also are In Moyamenslng
prison In default ot 11000 ball, pending
further hearing, s
Norman Kennedy, of Fifteenth and Hun
tingdon streets, arrested as a' suspect In the
same Investigation, was discharged today
for lack of evidence.
SEEK WHOLE OANO
The police and detectives are by no means
satisfied that the capture of the ten men al
ready under arrest completes their labors
and are hopeful that they will obtain state
ments from some of the prisoners that will
lead to the arrest of a doien other members
of the gangs who are still at liberty.
The capture of Callahan was a sequel to
two spectacular round-ups made on Satur
day and Sunday mornings In the north
western section.
Spurred by the success of these captures,
city and private detectives working on the
case are hopeful that their efforts will
triumph and that hundreds of (stolen ma
chines will be restored to their owners and
the purlolnera landed In Jail.
Acting under direction of Lieutenant
Little, of the Nineteenth and Oxford streets
'station, the sleuths worked all night In a,
search for. the thieves still at large and ex
preseed confidence tod that they' soon
'wotird get 'ttienf elirmte"m"e1r!n',the two
raids, walked blindly Into a trap act by the
poflce. The arrests were made In eo secret
.a manner that the. police and a few news
papermen were, the enly persons -aware of
the raid and their details. '
LURED.. J.NTO TRAP
An operative of a private detective
agency rented -a stable at .2314 Redner
street. He won the confidence of the sus
pected men by posing as a buyer of stolen
cars. Another detective masqueraded as
the agent for prospective purchasers.
Lured to the stable early Saturday morn
ing, five of tho saupects. with a stolen Ford
machine, were trapped by a "planted" de
tail of police and detectives.
These prisoners gave their names as
Thomas Dunn, twenty yearn old. Lambert
street above Jefferson: Joseph Duffy,
twenty years old, Ogden street near Fif
teenth; Edwanl Ragan, eighteen years old,
Twenty-third street above Thompson : John
Smith, twenty-three years old, Lex street,
and John Connor, twenty-one years old.
Twentieth street above Master.
Thoae caught In Sunday' round-up
Identified themselves as John Deeney, nine
teen years old, Seventeenth street above
Poplar Albert Murphy, tv.nty-one years
old, Perklomtr. street .near Tarrlsh;
Thomas Byrne, nineteen years old, Cabot
street near Kilteenth, and, Lewis Cherry,
twenty years eld, Judsonjtreet near Stont
gomery avenue. Two of)lhe latter were
arrested In West Philadelphia,. where they
had been operating a car without a license.
CITY CONSUMERS
LIKELY TO PAY 10
CENTS FOR MILK
Increase of Price by Farm
ers Cause of Boost,. Dis
tributors Sajv
POINT TO DAILY. LOSS
Commissions of Four States to
Co-operate in Probe of
Question
Milk at ten cents a quart In the price
that faces Philadelphia unless the farmers
who supply the city agree to a compromise
with the milk dealers,
" This was the unanimous opinion ex
pressed today by milk distributors, who
declare they are encountering MO00 loss
a day because of the boost In price by the
QUICK NEWS
BRITISH STEAMSHIP WELSn PRINCE SUNK
LONDON, Oct ir.-Tho British steamship Welsh Trlnce has
been sunk. 1 wns announced here today. The vessel -wds of. 4031 tons.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Laurel race, S-ycnr-olds, h l- furlonga Cherry Ripe, 108,
Kobluson, $5.00, $3.80, ?3.00, -won Scylla,' 113, Kcogh, $5.B0l".$i'.20,
eccondj Burbank, U3, Tapllu, ?7.00', third. Time, 1.00, -
Second Laurel race, 3-yenr;oUls and up, selling, C 1-2 furlongs
Orccutrcc, 112, Robinson, 6.20, ?2.0O, 82.00, won; Knthbryii' Gray,
110, Tapllu, 93.4.0, ?3.10, second; Kilkenny, 112, Kcoel'i $1.80, third.
Time, 1.14 3-3.
BALLOT BOXES DISTRIBUTED TO VARIOUS DISTRICTS
KsssmsacrrTrrrTr
4
CITY EMPLOYES
HELD UP TO AID
CAMPAIGN FUND
Pay.' "Voluntary" Assess
ment and Violate Elec
tion Law
SCORES OF THEM B.ALK
K'i'V-" rdHSMjwna2aawr"r't''' -- t A-mrrs m.-iki mu-n ' -aa v.-s r
I;!i - ""WLHLIBMW'ffr rtt i! wLHfEU K v!W..IMLfl'VHsHB Tils?'
ii-'- Mil-1 vltfel gMMlm x-'iJM - MM
N'j.f n SlwMBSife til JBfelfl "MmmbIbB Kji
1 ""T rJ SK&faavjaSiH-lf .' l&JBBplsL3BVMBfBaJiiSf Esi R IsV 8 PHHH bbbVR f
I ' 1 iv . Mr hBTsTbMmm 'wwsTrrf JWBCfWBTiril 2RS I Hv " -pr--" tE i?
Si T , ' j trWBBl ' t 'jBWjFwHKr xjbbMbW. jam J3 """"JMLil
'HI1 idPlii i iiiM tl1 I iii'l11! ifUlun WilW
. Ml BTrrMTTl -TFmTii T TTfi iimttiTMBnniTif.ftiliTigl
1 HMBWsWW'V&'afiBsaLsitX
' HbibbbPwbwR' 4 V s - aMKHtBQGM?aH5Ei'c!tr:& vilw!HRNBBWBS n
,-2''., -rW "',' ,';. ,. ' Seii' 'f W
j&wMe&ywiWR
Campaign "Tax?' Hard
on City Policemen
Average policeman's salary
for two weeks .... $42.06
Allowance for winter uniform. 20.W
Total $62.00
"Voluntary" assessmnt for
campaign fund ........... $15.(X
Cost of winter uniform....... 31.89
Total ...... J46.M
Which leaves (15.60 for rent, food,
shoes, light, water, coal, etc., for
him and his family, if ho has one,
for two weeks; or tho weekly sum
of $7.75.
4ya-tfvjAJtww,.w.AiSiy Avj5ftw-s
1 rtrato ly Erxio Lxmtn I'liato 1'atrol.
Five teams today began hauling ballot boxes from City Hall to tho 1311 districts in the forty-oight wards
of tho city to bo ready for election day. On account of tho distances to be Covered, tho task will probably
take a. week, The old ballots wero first removed from, tho. receptacles and sold as waste paper, About eighty
i - ,if-v .' ' ";" vbqes jnade'ia load, '" ,
prtMlBl ' A-ree'alrlesTe--"' AbbStt
AWerneyCDalrles. the WllllsIones McEwen
Company, and the li "V. TVooIman Com
panyhave Increa'seil'tlio the price of Grade
ri milk from elgh-to n(nt cento a quart and,
many others declared today that a general
price of nine oenta was almost Inevitable
with strong probabilities of .the consumer
paying ten cents a quart.
Distributors were pessimistic today over
reaching an agreement with the farmers at
tho scheduled meeting Thursday on account'
of the latest demands of the Burlington
County dairymen and the Delaware County
Milk Producers' Association. In a meeting-
at Columbus, N." J., the Burlington
County dairymen demanded a flat whole
sale rato of five and a half cents a quart,
the distributors to pay the freight changes.
The Delaware County milk men spolte In
favor of. a wholesale price of six cents a
quart because of the Increased, cost of pro
Cuclng milk.
FOUU STATES TO CO-OPEUATE.
The ml)k comml"lons appointed by Gov
ernor Brumbaugh, of Pennsylvania, and
Governor Jtlller, of Delaware, are expect
ed to confer this week with similar bodies
to be appointed by Governor l'lelder. of
New Jersey, and Governor Harrington, of
Maryland, on the chaotic milk situation.'
The Pennsylvania commission consists of
C. K. Carothers, Deputy Becretary of Agri
culture; Morris T. Phillips, of Tomeroy,
of the State Agricultural Asoclatlon; Dr.
Clyde I King, of the University of Penn-
Conllnufd en Pat T,ro, Celiimn Vlt
BUS BOY INHERITS BIG
FORTUNE AND TITLE
Made a Wanderer by Misfortune,
He Is Now Sir Charles
Sergeant"
a I'm. r,,fOi.M tWe
-THB WEATHER
ifaUtCAST
wm kmrkm UdMaU: taJ.
lfMM( WW. "P" T '
t-nonp or A4.Y
rBB mv-Es turn cmMam
Ziil'r a!"""-k?J5. w-r il""'
'!.! st-ljHab wstor (Ijia.
TUtPUAT-lltJC AT BACH UOV4,
10 1 ll"fi" II ii ji'ii "
'J MrtfrsiT ani ani T "
aUMil-JIiuLr-li T-JiJ i,ii jfe-g
Jfin AMD rovttD
im$bM
. . " '
immmdJ&ZA&im
SAN FBAKCISCO, Oct 17. Charlie
Sergeant night bus boy in a cafeteria here
for the last six months and a very good
bus boy at that today resumed his right,
ful aUtloti In life as Sir Charles Sergeant,
Brlttoh baronet, owner of an estate In Eng
Jahd, a villa near NaiHes and a fortune
of ij.ew.m.
Sir Charles last night broke to his em
ployer the pews that one Job .as a bua boy
was vacant. Burke's peerage tells all about
Wm, butMt eea bM,r evera,year
ago he lost hi father, mother, wife and
child in a motor aeeJdent In Italy and be
came a wanderer, nor how he decided to
ak fwatitHnssi M wfk and toek the
ftrt thW that.eare4 a Jk tn to
by, The ajl ef SngUiul has" -Mve4
fm, fcaweverj ad he .( retunttac, haate
Mi hsasraHng ta hts awn wagnes.
mt. Mt aW. Mr Obartea t aWi-stic
M-ar Trk Mmsm Vifc Taiajr
mmw: yojuc ot, n. nr-wt-aiiir
1 t taaritM ! Harlem ajk Hum will
atrika today, untoa seaesais 4fltair4 UM
Bight. Their arievaaoe la that taaay .
uwtwra aee their ptaaea ee Ivasar tbaa
the aoure aet by the union, freat t a. aa.
to t v. ta. Suslnaaa Agent 'ardllk, f the
union's Mrwln brant a. anid mere tha
7io men weuM walk out ta that topwtjk,
jSSSvf nfea W atikadtM
mm -..,
WOODEN LEFT ARM MAY
IDENTIFY GIRL SUICIDE
Postcard .From Philadelphia
Man' Among River Victim's
Effects in Cleveland
CLEVELAND, Oct 17. A wooden left
arm and a trunk check from a Jocal hotel
are the only Identifying marks on the body
of a young- woman found In Itocky Illver
today. The body Is that of a handsome girl
of twenty-two.
The manager of the hotel where the young
woman had atopped today Identified her as
having registered at hi hotel under the
nam sf Mrs. M. A. Devore, Bendon, Mich,
A MUmr card found, on the girl's body
bore the 'name, Ml Mamie Byrda, Cleve
land, O
A peeteard found In the girl's effeata was
signed. "Carl K. dmlaaoB. 1617 NerUi
Tealh streei, PhHadefBhta.1 V
Other tinsJgntd paeiaat-da bere' the fallow
ing nnssagee;
"My Wve'trswa galer every day."
"What Wiea, Xee-laT hawse by mm- two
selves
"l want ee ee to Wve.""
"WM1 yau.be trtM I qevatand. or'
Patraw 4 the hatej wt the ilrt
rtnrri-. . for " nlt '' Wad
UtU la known, of Carl K, tadwlnaoavla
thU ort: U left the bouae at JflT Nona
Tenth nlreet a week aa aatarday with Ma
4tlutlau uakoowa. lira, A4a UoCtunr,
whwa tke hoaaa. aair thnt Bsknlnaon1
Iwu la la Utlar. Pa., and that he had
returned treat a trtst, ta the MhttU Weal
ran astir He Is ahout nineteen years aid
nasi uaaaarrted.- far aa aha knew. alaU
has laaan reevtved taaee lr hlw sine he
m. NH Mrs- IJajMii aa4 un(.
nBMpPV eWW nf tsjaa
GIRL SHOOTS FATHER
FOR SCORNING MOTHER
Dr. Grant J. Roberts, Chicago,
Near Death After Refusing
Daughter's Plea
CIUCAdO, Oct. 17. Mies Fern noberts,
twenty-six years old, who shot her father.
Dr. Grant J. Itoberts, a dentist, because
he lef( her mother, was arrested here early
today, The father Is In a critical condition,
Miss Tloberts confessed to the shooting
'today and said she had resolved to kill her
father unless he consented to return to her
mother.
Doctor "Roberts formerly was In the
United States Medical Corps In the Canal
Zone and la well known here, lie was taken
to the Norwegian H6sptal after, the shoot,
tag, where an eperatkm was performed,
Ta the police, jMlsa Roberta said ei)e was
'teklfw ee ef her euetomary evening walks
wMk er faUier, She live with her aunt,
and mat Doctor Roberta near her heme.
After , he refused, to Ild to her pleas to
raturn to her' mathar, who ta beHeved to
be I Kew Ofleane, Mlee Roberta drew a
tyatfar, m saya, and . him tb tima.
M w arraetod at Wa Hat's hawe, Mar
MSMtol aaaditten will be TiNsknil today.
.Akto BrkM. I rlghir TWW
VJH-BLAKD. K. J., OeC ltMrs. r
ytta Xaauuau surartoad a U.- while k
was atoaliag; a o of aalMy atj th BliaTy
laaldenrs The thief V tucke4 .her' dowa aavd
hrak her ankle. The woaaaa fnloted and
her ooadUion was dlaoovered whan the tona
lly ta another room heard hr groans. Mr
Hu4y ba4 takaa thn x owsutolng MM
eegsh'rw aasja anarBsa"w
" U. S. mTnISTER TO SI AM QUITS NOVEMBER 1
f Al JlA' V, pre, :tet. i 7. William ir.. llornlbroplc,, United States 'Minister to Slam,
today nnnouiicrd In, Ills paper', tlio Allinni" Democrat, (hat his rcst-rriatfp'n would take
effect November 1; nt tvljlclt lraq He will Joitart for hOntoT. Tho rtalsnatlqn Jras aent
to Prcslilont Wllao'n Inst Mny. Mr. Hornlbrook aaya li(s solo rr'aapn 1 the 111 health
of his j'liinlly. x " t.
2000 BBLciANS TAKEN ,TO GERMANY TO WORK
AMSTKRDAM.'.Qct. l?-Tha-felegroat Icarus that the tiermans have sent iOOO
Bolglans from Ghent" to'ddnnaiiy in the last fow days. It'.' was feared they would
be victims of the 'jtbrfced, labor hyetcm, and this now proves the case. The people aro
much distressed'' and aro waiting nhxtously to see whether there will be .further
deportations.
WILSON FAILS TO SETTLE POLISH RELIEF PROBLEMS
SHADOW IJVWN. It. J.. Oct. 17. Uccauae important differences still oxlat be
tween the Allied niuf Ccntml Powers under nhlch nppllus mny.be eerft to starving
Poland, President Wllwin toduy nhmiunced Ito.liaa "not yet been successful In
inducing the Powers to conclude a definite settlement, fcfotne week ag-d the Presi
dent wrote letters to tho Klnu nf Kngland, President ot. Trance, Czar of Russia,
Kmperor Of aermany and Kmporpr of Austria urging their co-operation In alleviat
ing tho aurferlriK ot the Polish people. Today he Issued a statement ndnilttlntr'hls
efforts had been In vain. '
GIRL, 11 YEARS OLD, DIES OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS
One death from Infantile paralyslx was reported today, MaryKIrwIn, eleven
years old, 4629 I-ancnslcr avenue, who was stricken on October 15, died1 In the Phila
delphia Hospital for ConUltrloua Diseases. Her ulster, Catharine, five years. Is 'in
the hospital aurferlng.from the aame disease. The otul number of deaths Is 377 and
cases 932.
VARE MAN GETS $2800 HIGHWAYS POST
Jnim-H 12. Chamber, of the TwcntysUth Ward, was today appointed chief
clerk of the bureau jf Highways to till .the poxllion made vacant by the resigna
tion of Frank U. J.'orlhjne The position carries a salary of IJhOO a yoar. The new
appointee-link held n clerkship Iri tho Highway Uurcau since 1911 at a salry of $1100.
Tho appointment Is attributed to Varo Influence.
LIVING COST UP 45 PER CENT IN ENGLAND
LONDON, Oct. 17 The average Increase lit the retail prices ot the principal
articles of food between July, 19H. and September 1910, was sixty. five per cent,
including rent, clothing, fuel and light. The vice In the cost of living was found
by the food -prices' -committee to be forty-five per cent In comparison with, a year ago.
PARALYSIS APPEARS AT PH1LLIPS-ANDOVER
ANDQVI3U, Mat., Oct. 17. A case of Infantile paralysis was reported at
Phllllps-Andover Academy today. The patient, James A. Backus, Jr., of Nantucket,
was removed to a private hospital. Principal A. 13. Stearns stated tonight that
on Investigation by local phyalclana and the State Board 'of Health showed that tlm
situation is not serious, and does not warrant the closing of the school.
WAR HORSES WORTH $40,000,000 SOLD IN ONE CITY
EAST ST. LOUIS, ill., Oct. 17. Approximately 225,000 war horses have been
sold hero since tho wn Ivnan. The total sum paid I about 140,000,000. About
7000 mules have been U ivs n total of $995,000, British, French and Belgian buyer
and agenta for tho u:u-. 'ute army are taking 2006 horsea a weew,
CITY'S PLEA FOR LOAN BANK WILL BE HEARD TODAY
The advantage of Philadelphia a a site for one of the twelve farm teas
u.ni. to bo estaWWiad were pkqed before tho member of the 'dml Pacm
Loan Board at the flrat hearing In thla State at Harrlaburg te4ay, Tkeyniariilipi
of ,tbe board are Qaarje W Narrl., f Philadelphia, aeUaa; elfrm; iii(tM
ef the. Treasury MeXdaa, Cbajtoa V. Labdall, of Oraat Beetd, Ka,s Captain It, $
sWth, of eHoux CKy, la., an4 Herbert Quick, af Herkalay toiN, "Va, THay "
He Philadelphia ayMatM lft the eity thU swrnlng far Harrtoburg. Among tfca
IMladrlBlihi advooaaa are .Dealt Hayward, nf Dalawir hHate Oaitow; Alv X4u,
,jsrtry of State af Kaw Jensey; J, Clyde MartuU, Xr. J. r, Koeenberkar,
Otorannn ar Katof, Qmm Ja and pari Tshnnm,
SA1UHP OF SHIP TODAY OPINS LINB TO SOUTH AMERICA
the 4fu-ture at tba Phakutotphia asd UotitU Anwsee Carparatloo frtight
aUsMhia Oarolyii fw atoHth Aioarkw, at fMlaok thai. aftmoaa, will be attwiAtd
by oaramooW oelehraUng Vha aaaoing of direct oomaaunlcnlkm between thu otty
and goutW Aerk. Amfag Vmmw yko will toke peu-t In the progrum mi Uinctor
Webster, pt the Department of Wharves, Pevk anati rarrtos: E. J (Vtiell city
taOlaiioian; Howard U. Fienvh, piesidcnt of the Chamber of Comoaajce: H K
htuiaard. Jnmt 8. Bonner. H. hi Cwiwen, Wirkaaa . Hailowall. C V Ko, K. N.
r,'lr. William P. Witaua. Dudlay BarUatl. Alhwt Ball. Robert C. Witont ajad
WtaUMf TtMe.
City offlceholders who escaped the first
demands for campaign contributions by
emissaries of the Republican Organisation .
today continued the process of "coming
across" with their "voluntary" asseeeraent
In violation of the election laws.
Policemen, firemen and. other city em
ployee, with few exceptions, paid the
amounts asked by repreeetatlvea ot city-1 .
and ward committees. Scores, however,- re
fused flatly to be mulcted after four year
of freedom from campaign fund collector.
They pointed In defense to the election
laws of the State. Article XLIX expreaabjr
'forbids the assessment of olty or State, eta
ployes for campaign funds. Section on
provides a fine of 100 for any aamm'.ttee
man who demands an assessment from any ,
city or State employe. Section two makes
possible 01.0 year's Imprisonment or $iaaa
Anew both for any State officer or. "Mayor
or Head of department or other officer of
any city' who causes or even knowingly
permits a subordinate to be assessed. It
provides, however, that an employe may.
make a voluntary contribution. 'Seetten .
three prohibits any city or .State employe
from soliciting or receiving a voluntary or
an Involuntary contribution, ,under penalty
of $500 fine and forfeiture; "of office. ,
POL1CB SUPERlNTERBNrS ORDKR,,
The poUcepieh whjrrebe'tjd attha' jVV ,
untary contribution?, wJjw4eVgf them
also' referred "the collector to the, order of
Superintendent of Pellea Robinson, whlek
"The attention eti -tttts'.maa' has been
called to the fact "tha" ceraiin pelltloal
organlzatlona have levied .assessments,, or,
so-called contributions,, upon the employe
of this department, and they are herebj"
warned not to part with any of their earn;.
Jnga for purposes ot this kind. Member
need have no fear for their future if they
adhere strictly to this- order," "''
3 This order was approved by former .Di
rector of Public Safety Porter during the ,
Dlankenburg administration and not re
tracted by Director Wilson, his successor,
who said:
"The men know my feelings regarding
campaign contributions. When I took,
charge of this department I announced
that the men should not make campaign
contributions, and 2 hold .the same view
now." .
' WILSON OPPOSES PAYMENTS
"I am weary o'f reiterating my position
with respect to levying polltlca asseaementa ,
on policemen and fli-emen." declared1 tha
Director, "My position la plain and waM
known. I am'Joppoeed to policemen and
firemen paying polltleal assessment. ',!
have so,, stated' niid'madeJt as ernphatla a
I know hovTt -A fireman, or.a polleeman.wba o
refuses to- make a' campaign eonWlbuMoa ,.
Will not.be disturbed by me. - He "ha abe.
lutply nothing to f ea'r,
"Some peraona don't appear to undeei
stand that I can't control a man's penwoal
actions, particularly when he Is doing i
thlna or -refuse ta do amethlng not,
neoted with hi duty to-' the pity, Pjbllea
men and n'remeUj are perfectly familiar, e
ought to be. with the Mayor' order and
his comment Upon hU erder."whkm wa thai
they were pot expected to pay political a.
sessments, and ln no clrewmcuncea would
be' obliged to yield te demands .made upon
them, - They know whera- the Mayer and t
otand. I am Indifferent ta. eommenU
criticisms s to my poaHl w P taking
t upon myself to nay ta a policeman of
fireman that he ahall set do thbupr that,
providing, ot course, it 1 a matter outalda
of departiaent work. I wilt net ge farther
than to assure the men My are fr
lefuse'to make oamaalga oeMrtbutlona, and
that when, they have done that they hava
nothing to $ar."
jB apke of wkleh k mwlattag oaatlauaa.
Xher. la a aelt aomelag Ilka
$&0,m wbleh the VaHootUrolUd coramM
t.emw) fntwd existing altar 'Utatr fm
rwrtmnl mi Nf "ewt. fNii Tmf
POPM PLaaAOi Vft :MWl
Ak ChlUra U. f. Vfl AU
i-M :'717 " --i if
'mm-!
wF,t.mlrHJl!iM
aklkfMsl afgMMam.
lanaaaats
W4 tka reewltaf 4
new sees.
Rtnta U ant
Mr. Baker, who a) l
ha MIW , aaM that
KarvMaT. smt that tuber
JTWaMUy.
Public Udr Pri
fnmtmmt
rvN FAGK 8 the Evknimo
J raprinta by pen&iaaitm i
LeOCfr arita coniaat caiw
liahnd in tkat n?wsoaaar
ing, on Wli Huihaa 9m
Bametati ao4 VkyNWxlr
"." m aa-Bneiaat.
"ariagnf PK r"
i&0
J4. ' laf II I irtlliMHlt" I M'ftMnfllni
ai-U
