The President's Corner
lit wrnxmow KIIMIN
T*a rl»»t. •"* haallh slid af *ur warklnfman an*
at»4 nf .MM'an wa now ra.ngnlaa a. l<alna
•Mr thtrt nallor.l W'tir.l and aa ,« ~r.«uard that „
anuria at an »<hara aialnal tha ..m.hn... „f >..1.,,, „„ ,nd
P rafil Wa .hall laka aara af ..ur tnraaia and mlnaa a>«l watar
rau'aaa an* a.-»l. ►«! akm«a all alaa »a atiall laka rara at aitr
' • n '' 1 '» U il«rn ropulahi 111 A
t»» l'«|« M »"*• I
Politics Is Hying to Overthrow U.S. Government
and Get Us Into War, Savs War Correspondent
WOMEN WRITE SLAYER WAITE IN DEATH CELL
Tho Doomed, He Revels in
Their Foolish Attentions
WET BILLS WOULD
OPEN DOOR WIDER
FOR THE GRAFTERS
We Hare the liquor interests to use this editorial in
their California prohibition fight!
\ iolation of the dry law in Seattle—in tome -.puts —
i* n<> argument for the licensed saloon
It is no argurrient for the two initiated bills in this
state —No. IS. the hotel bill, and No. 24. the brewery hill.
Rut it is a reflection on the law enforcement officials
of thi- city.
Efforts of Mayor tiill to b snio brewery Intf'OU for the
*hnl»-*ale boot egging which the h»ad of the mayor* dry •quad
rays ha* sprung up la tbe past six weeks thru the corruption
of »mf polite officers, won't foot any car.
The browertea are ti-fcled. of course. to pat the prohtb!tloa
law In be 4." If they can. aa<l on» quart of whisky today cre
ates mora ronntnt than a carload In the oldan days.
But ibe situation In a nutshell la this Tba estent of tha
booic bualneaa la Seattle la commensurate with tba graft tbara
rls In It.
Who gets tba graft''
The man who aall whisky and tba officials who allow th»tn
to do It.
Tha ttar la as firmly convinced that from a dollar-and
and hotel bills ahevld be defeated en November 7 ae It »e that
Mayer Oil! should eend to jail tha grafting protector* of boot
iaggsrs who are In hla police department.
THE PROTECTED WHISKY RING IS ROTTEN
THE BEER BILLS WOULD ONLY MAKE THE SITt'A
ATION WORSE
All tbe bootlegging that can poulbl; be carried on In a
month In Seattle doe* not equal the amount sold In a day or so
by tbe 3«e saloons that operated here prior to the first of the
year.
In all. the prohibition law in tht» state haa new been in
operation only nine months. Vet In thle Short period, tha city
and the state have undergone a meet astounding change far eco
nomic betterment.
in Seattle, no such general prosperity has been enloyed
alace !»0». tbe year or the fair
Store rooms are at a premium Thrre la not a vacant stora
on Second are., or Pike *t.. In the busineas center of to*n
legitimate stores bare taken tbe place of many aaloons In this
district.
r.rocers. butchers, clothier*, credit bouses generally, report
a healthier condition than ever before
Men who never saved a dollar in their Uvea are now,dolng
It. Bsnk deposits have Increased enormously—saving* depos
| Its. st that
■Bp It would be a calamity if Initiative No. 18 and No. 24
pasa at the coming election.
It would be a step backward.
It would not only demoralize the prohibition law. but
would also be accompanied by economic disaster to the
familiea who. for the firat time, are getting on their feet.
The argument that the saloon will not be returned by
either of these bills is mere sophistry. The saltwm will
be here in another form —that s all.
Mayor <iill ha* been preaching against both No. 18
and No. 24. That is fine But the mayor must act as
well as preach in the pulpit*
It's up to him to take the crooked bull by tbe horns
and throw him in jail. Send a few of these grafter* to
jail and the bootlegging industry is dead.
NM BOOZE ON LINER AND HUNT
FOR CROOKED CITY DETECTIVE
Dry iquid offlcere Mixed
bootlegger whisky and arrested
George Bishop, just arrived
from (in Francisco, when the
President docked at
TPler O, late Monday night.
Bishop's baggage eoneleted of
a trunk and a suit case, each
full of whisky. Ths wet goode
In the trunk was contained In
half-gallon tins. Officers Ford
and McLean made the arresta.
ProMvrutor Lundln Tuesday an
nounced that ha would not wait for
the grand Jury, but would start
prosecution Immediately <>n uncov
ering evidence supporting the as
sertion of the Milwaukee railroad
that a plain clothe* detective sold
liquor confiscated by Sheriff Hodge,
and said by him to have been de
stroyed. to a Second ave. drug
store
Attorney Frank M Harkwlll, for
the Milwaukee railroad. Monday
filed claim with the county commls
• loner* for *170 to recover for
liquor seized by the sheriff In July.
Ml* letter. In part, says:
"While the liquor waa In a war*
house at Seattle for transfer to
Flenton, It was selr-ed by the sheriff
fl taken out of the possession nf
l railway company We are ad
»d that the sheriff's office shows
i shipment whs destroyed
As a matter of fact, a portion. If
all. of the shipment, was located
In one of the downtown Second ave.
drug stores, having been sold to
the proprietor of the drug store by
a plain-clothe* man "
Prosecutor Lundln and Attorney
Msrkwlll each said Tuesdsy they
had not yet learned the name of the
detectlvr, but were tracing the
•rannartlon
Investlitators for Lundln arrested
K. J. Slltor. one of :he proprietor*
of the Smith Drug Co.. Se-ond ave.
and .lames at , nnd Harold Dunn,
of the l)e Luxe Drug Co.. Second
ave and CrlverKlty *t., on charge*
of selling liquor to litn Miller la*t
week.
Lundln would not admit the ar
rests had any connection with the
transaction between the plain
clothes man and the druggist*
Keput.v Sheriff Stewart Campbell
said Tuesday that he personal!)
destroyed the liquor consigned by
the Mernhelm Liquor Co.. of Louis
vllle, to R M Walker, of Kenton,
and wbl-li was confiscated by
county off Iters
Campbell said that he waa ac
companled by Krank Hrewer
"I got my orders from Sheriff
Hodge, and I sent. out. snd got the
liquor and broke the bottles up.
That Is all there la to It."
REBISTER TONIGHT
Voters who want to vote at the
coming presidential election have
until midnight Tuesday In which
to register. After that It will be
too late
The total registration to date is
*4,1*4.
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS t
VOLUME 19.
HONOR SYSTEM
WARDEN WOULD
NOT KILL HIM
■ Y GEORGE MARTIN
U. P. Stsff Correspondent
NEW YORK. Oct 17.—Out
• S "honor system" wsrden of
ting ting, Thomas Mott Os
borne Is sstablished In New
York today ss consulting en
gineer on prison reform to any
penal institution In the world,
ssrvicss free.
"I «m still convinced that
there are no bad men in the
. world," said Osborne today. "I
Im ours my method is right,
•ems day It will be the only
one In use."
'Do you think." Osborne was
asked, "that Dr Arthur Warren
Waits. whe <»nfr»»od to murder
lot bis wife's parents, Is s good
man. or is ho bad inherently
criminal sad vicious?"
Or. Wsite Is Insane
"I think !>r Wslte Is Insane.*'
said the warden. "Not violently
fMSs*. bsii aasaaaleoty abnormal
'Ha ba* control over his mental
prorseae*. but hla mind la so warp
••<l and distorted that hia murdering
i bis father In-law and mcither-lbUw
by poison is not surprising
' I have studied Walte In the
death bouse. Hia predominant
char*ctrrl»ili s sre excessive, self
centering. titier selfUhn<»* snd
sxtreme sensuousnsss."
I "Do you think a man like Walle
' can' be redeemed *
j "No. but that means nothing.
Waite I* on* of hla kind in a gen
eration He Is unique Me Is not
even a type "
Wouldn't Kill Any One
"Hut Walte Is under sentence of
dnath." I *ugge*ted Do you
think h* should dlo In the elri trie
chair?"
"No; I would not kill Waltr I
would not kill anvhodv Walte
should be locked up for life. I
think."
"In solitary confinement?"
"No; he should b« permitted to
mingle with the other men In
prison He will aiwaya be as he
j ha* been and is now. but he
! should not be e*ectit»d
"What doea he aay about hlmaelf
now that ne ha* been In the death
houae *everal montha?"
Woman Admire Him
' He aaya what I very *erlou*ly
doubt, that he haa had a change
of h«art He wrt'ea poetry. Oh.
awful pjietry' And he read* the
Hlble Poor fellow, I b'lleve he
think* he I* having a fine tlm*
Juat a* he had them when hr
raring up and down Hnndwajf In
an automobile and pretending to
lierform dellrate operation* at hoa
pltal*. he kllll hn* hi* f»mlnlne ad
mlrar* and revela In them Juat a*
murh a* ever.
"You would be a*tounded at (he
number and *ort of women who
write to blm You *hou!d *«-e the
line of xuah that *otnc of them
nend him. to which he replle* In
kind On* woman ha* dlarovered
that *he In hi* aoul mat*
Believes In Honor System
"But Wilte's ca»e stands alone.
In all but these exceedingly rare
Instances. the honor system I* an
absolute success We have reduced
Ihe form tn fundamental* now. and
hereafter I shall hold myaelf In
readlnesn to help entnbllnh the sys
tem wherever It la asked. All I
demand li that the head of the In
atltutlon be In aymiiathy with the
Idea
"Depend upon It. the honor svs
tem may he hindered, but It can't
he hurt. It will go right alone
whether I mn at Sing Sing or In
the grave."
'OBEY' IS KEPT IN
ST LOUIS. Oct. 17.—After a
special committee of the Pro!
(■slant Episcopal general conven
tion had recommended striking the
word "obey" from the nisrrlage
ritual, the house of general depu
ties referred the suggestion back
So, It will h« necessary that poor
woman will lie forced to obey her
husband for three years at leant
The question will bo voted upon
ngaln st that time.
HAN" FRANCISCO "Charlie Ser
gennt," fotmer busboy In n local
cafeteria, admitted today that he
Is Sir Charles S( meant, a Hrltlsh
nobleman He said he worked a*
a busboy Just for the fun of It.
SEATTLE. WASH.. TUESDAY. OCTOBER 17. 1916 ONE CENT
HAVE you HAD YOUR HEAD SURVEYED?
Seattle Woman Is Teaching Character Analysis
THE FACIAL KEY TO 3 PRIMARY TEMPERAMENTS
TRIANGULAR or
MENTAL
(EDITOR'S NOTE—This it lh« firat of a M'lM of artlelaa on character analyela by Mra. Minna ft.
Par**, of the Manry building, »»ho daclaraa it a ralnbl*. acitntlfic method of gaining pereonality and
»«r. Mr*. Parka la teaching hundreda of bualnaia man. club woman, paranta and public official* tha
irlnclpiaa a«t forth In these art tela*.)
BY MRS MINNA S. PARKS
Noted Character Analyst
Ha\e you e\er had your lic.nl surveyed. y>»ur features chartcd :
Do you know that your fair, body, coloring. texture and temperament give
)rou a reliable index t<> your talent- and capacities'
They tell yoti what position you're fitted for. what kind of friend* to «ulti
• ate. where y<'Ur special powers lie and how best to conserve health.
The wienc» of reading thc»c keys i* character analysi*
It is based on definite natural principles And they are not difficult to
earn.
There are three fundamental types or temperaments into which all per
kiim ii.it 11 r:il!v fall llir \ ITAI. Mf)l 1\ I*, ami MKVTAI.
Mr*. M. S. Parki
To Which Class Do You Belong?
Th« VITAL temperament cemmercialixee and guides execu
tively.
The MOTIVE Is active, mechanical and conetructlva.
The MENTAL thinks, reflects and plans.
Into one of these spheres you fit particularly.
But because of the general lack of self-analysis on scien
tific principles, the chances are 7S In 100 that you are trying
to do things entirely foreign to yfcur temperament; that you are
a misfit: a square peg In a round hole.
—Mrs. Minna 8. Parks.
FISHERMAN SLAYS HOUSEKEEPER.
SINKS BODY AND SHOOTS SELF
BLAINE. Willi, Oct. 17.—
Nalghbora of S«nford Chlnn.
aged fiaherman who ehot him
diy on the atreet and died, are
watching the beach today In
hope that the wavaa will waah
up the body of hia houeekeep
or, Mra. Emmi Pinkerton, and
clear up what they feel certain
I* a murder myatary.
Sheriff Stawart aaya evi
dence ehows Chlnn killed Mra.
Plnkertsn laat Tuaaday night,
aftar a quarrel, whan ahe aaked
him te marry her, put her body
In a trunk and aunk It far out
In tha bay early the next
morning.
It waa tha fear of arreet for
GET WOMEN IN CAPITOL HILL RAID
Disorderly women were arrested
In the heart of the Hroadwav resi
dence district. and morphine and
liquor conftacated when a Mice
officer went to quell the noise of
revelry at 1410 Harvard ave., early
Tuesday morning
Mrs H. VV. Martin. :'.O, was later
charged wltlt violating the liquor
law and with conducting a dlfor
derly house
Violet Hedges, 25, was hooked as
a disorderly person,
Three men were found drinking
Oddities of the News
CHICAGO Standing In her hath,
Mrs May Me huce reach'd for an
electric heater and Hi* light fix
ture nl the same tlmci and was
killed.
NKW YOEK rtlr lames M Har
lie « two-pound look litis nothing
on lletinle Helm's $ I«.r»0 smell, lieu
nle put asafoetlda In his teacher's
(o»t pocket and 1H.60 was Ills
fine,
ROUND or VITAL
thla crime. says Stawart. which
cauaed Chlnn to burn his home
early yesterday and commit
aulclde.
Mra. Plnkerton had gena
from Seattle to kaap house for
tha fieherman, according to
Sheriff Stewart, and. aftar a
violent quarrel laat Tueeday,
disappeared.
Mr*. I'lnkerton claimed money
duo her and nuked (<ir It or nmr
rlaee. Stewart aald today. The
fatal quarrel followed.
Wednesday Chlnn borrowed a
wheelbarrow from a nelghlior. and
was seen to wheel a trunk down to
the water's edge. A blanket was
wrapped about the trunk.
It was seen sitting in front of
(Continued on page 5)
and rlancing with them at 3 a m
Officer .1 T. Mctilll, on his regu
lar beat, saw th-i houae lighted and
heard the noise.
He peeped In at the window. As
he did so, one of the. men drew
back the curtain and saw the of
ficer.
The arrests followed loiter a
search warrant was ohuined and
morphine, beer, whisky and Ver
mouth discovered
The men said they purchased brer
from the women at $1 a bottle.
WASHINGTON — Offering a
draught from your private flask
constitutes conducting an unli
censed liar, according to a ruling
of the district court.
SAN FRANCISCO l-ese than
five hours after she alleged her
huaband blackened her n.ve, Mrs.
Robert Hyron had on file a suit
for divorce.
SQUARE or OBLONG of
the MOTIVE
(1) Tha VITAL person haa
a round or oval face.
(2) Tha MOTIVE a aquara
ar oblong one.
(J) Tha MENTAL triangular
faaturaa.
They »re the physical advert lee
menta of their reapectlve human
tendencies. liken and powere.
With the round face of the vital
tem|>erameiit gi>e» tiaually a plump,
often corpulent body, tapering from
wain! to head and feet.
Vital people like to eat and
drink; they are friendly and Jocu
lar: have excellent acquisitive aid
financial Inatlncte, making theni
Rood buslnesa men or women, and
do not w»ate energy In reaching
their goal. Tafl belongs to thla
class
The MOTIVK tvpe. aquare of
face a'ld rugged In body, excel in
constructive, mechanical, executive
spheres. The shoulders are usually
broad They' are dynamic, always
on the Jump Rooaevelt la tvptcallv
a MOTIVK man
The trl jngular face of the MEN
TAI. class Is usually accompanied
by the email, frail physique, testi
fying to large brain and nervous
system They are the thinkers,
dreamers and artists.
These three primary types are
often more or leas combined. Indi
cating corres|>ondlng temperamen
tal variations, hut one usually
atands out predominant. Riving the
character key or bias.
The shape of the profile in also
an Important temperament Index, as
Is the color blonde or brunette.
The (JONVKX or ACll> type,
where the face tenia to bow out
from forehead to chin, ahows an
energetic, keen, alert and aggrea
slve nature. Sharp and prominent
featured, auch a person la usually
the human lemon, currant or rasp
berry. Always the hustler!
The CONCAVE or AUK AM pro
file, with the face bowing In, ad
vertises the calm, slow, delibera
tive. self-controlled person, cnio
itional and aympathetlc the banana
■or crescent-shaped fate.
Ordinarily the HI,ONDE Is com
bative. quick in thought and action,
but often variable, while the URI"
| NKTTK Is inclined to be the plod
der: more steady, conservative and
I attentive to detHlls.
These physical signboards of the
inner self are nature's own method
jof advert ialng the character of an
: individual. They have been ob
served, catalogued and syatema
ti/.ed hv thousands of scientific In
vestigators. Their reliability has
been proven.
Yon may use them profitably to
fit yourself properly Into the work
aday world, the life of your fellows
-and In get the most out of your
special powers.
The universal cry for efficiency
| demands thai you know yourself,
and proves how many are mls-
I place"*
NIGHT EDITION
Oil. WHAT IKjKH A UTTI.K KAIN TIIIH MORN
INO MATTKR TO TIIK WKATIIKR MAN? NOTIIINO,
KOI.KH NOTHING AT AM., FOR IIK OAYI.Y CO MRS
KORTII, DOKH WKATIIKR MAN BAI.IHBI'RY. AND
rill H IIK I HANTS; KAlll TONIOUT AND WKDNKH
DAY."
Wilson Has Kept
Out of Trouble
With All Honor
(EDITOR'S NOTE.—W. G. Shepherd, who writes the ac
companying striking article, probably haa Been more of tho
Europen war than any other American. He had been in Me*.
Ico. reporting the revolutiona, when war waa declared in Eu
rope. Within three weeks h * waa on the French front. Later
he epent eeveral month* In Germany.
For many month* he wae the only American correapond
ent with Gen. French, at British headquarter*. In France.
He waa In Serbia when the central power* drove the Ser
bian army out, and went with the army.
For many montha he waa with the allied armlaa at Sal
onika, going from there to London.
He wrote the firet detailed atory of a Zeppelin raid In Lon
don for American newapaporo.
Shepherd recently returned to America.
Thl* newspaper consider* this article by Shopherd on* of
the most significant and important contribution* to th* lit*ratur«
of th* presidential campaign.
It contains much food for thought by Americana who put
the intareat* of their country ahead of partlcan policies.)
BY W. G. SHEPHERD
(The Famous American War Correspondent)
1 have been on every front in Europe and in every capital
except Petrograd. On the fronts I have seen the horrors of
war. And in the capitals I have seen the efforts of the various
fighting nations to draw the United States into the war.
In war, thinking men become unthinking beasts. Men of
busines*, science and achievement stop their work and bccontt
mere physiral unit* in an army. Youth* drop their life dreanflr
and their future*. Ambitions crumble. Home and family
plan* are swept Progress, whose figure we carve in
marble to decorate our proud buildings, becomes a withered,
paralyzed wreck. The blight of hate reaches into the inner
most corner of everv city, of every home, of every heart.
WORSE THINGS THAN DEATH FALL TO THE LOT
OF MILLIONS OF HUMAN BEINGS IN WAR, including
mental and moral decay.
Into the situation which would produce the*e terrible
changes I have seen all the nations of Europe endeavor to
drag the United State*.
WATCHED EUROPE TRY TO ENTANGLE US
From those capitals, at the other end of the line, 1 have
watched Washington and the government there extricate the
United States from one plot after another, from one diabolical
machination after another.
Sometimes we in Europe, who were seeing the European
side of the picture—the efforts of the allies to draw us into
war with Grmany; the efforts of the Germans to draw us
Into war with the allies—held our breaths. There were times
when it seemed that war would be the only way out.
I have seen Germans rejoicing at the prospect of having
the United State* quarrel with the allies; I have seen the allies
wild with delight over the chance that the United States
would go to war with Germany over the Lusitania or some
other incident.
THRILLED US THAT THIS WAS OUR COUNTRY!
Hut always, sane, sound, steady, the United States came
thru. It was a magnificent thing to see from our point of
vantage in Europe. It made one thrill to realize that the
United States was HIS own country.
Now, when I return home. I find an election campaign
under way. I hear men say that we have peace without honor.
We. in the European capitals, who saw our government escape
the war traps. FELT NO LOSS OF HONOR. We wer«
always able to look the other fellow in the eye and be proud.
No one over there ever seriously charged us with loss of
honor, and men are highly sensitive to such things over there.
We were proud of American sanity and of American
statesmanship and that co«>l. calm reckoning of the American
people which prevented them from being stampeded.
It was ,1 fine, thrilling thing to he an American in Euro
pean capitals and to KNOW THAT IN" OUR OWN CAP
IT AI \T WASHINGTON THKRE WERE MEN AS
SHREWD AND AS FAR SIGHTED AS ANY OF THE
STATESMEN OF EUROPE; to know, also, that the states-
LOTTERY RAID ENDS
SHAVE THAT WOMAN
WAS OIVIHS PATROH
PORTI.WP. "re . Oct. 17- Km
ma Crawford, dusky tiarber of the
gentler sex. Is out on $20 ball to
day on a chaige of possessing lot
tery tlcke's. and she Is angry. Hut
Kmm* Is not half as mad ai the
gentleman who was receiving her
Jtonaorlal attentions when the po
lice arrived.
Jt was a critical moment. Half
the patient'* whiskers had fallen
and half bloomed unscathed.
"Slizz-slixz" went the razor.
"Clan*, clang" went the patrol
wagon chimps.
They removed Kmma. Her sub
ject fled, hla face no weird that
rats hIRHC.I at fight of him Three
Chinese were alio arreted on lot
tery chorees.
BRITISH PATROLS ACTIVE
IjONOON. Oct. 17. Itrltlsh pa
trols have been active on both
fronts In Macedonia It was offl
dally announced today.
(Continued on page •)
TME SE«T
OF TME
iPEi mm
is laid bare in "The Idyll
of Twin Fires," The Star's
new novel-a-week which
will be introduced next
Monday.
"The Lady's Right"
"They Always Are"
The above is a bit of dia
logue in the story. Sounds
interesting. It is interest
ing. Start it Monday. It
ends Saturday.
