4
$ ; ;; ;;
r .
w FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES;
S(s jjs jft ))t )f sj jt )jt sc se jfc )Jt jt sf
ift sfc sfc sjt i(t jfc )fc )c jft sc )c
z w circulation is :
::. over 4000 daily
.'
TB3RTY-NINTH g AR NO. 221
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAINS AMP NEWS
8TAND8 PTVB CENTS
Ww W ifrrfirf im iSPIffirl ill fmMWfmf
TEUTON ICES ATTACK
ON SIXTY MILE FRONT
Van Hindenburg's Offensive Along Eastern Front Has Begun
and Heavy Assaults On Russian lines North of Carpath
9 ians Is Beginning of Attempt to Drive Wedge Between
Russian and Rumanian Armies Allies Make Gains
Along Somme Front
London, Oct. 17. Von Hindenburg's widely heralded
. eastern front offensive apparently is under way. .
Teutonic forces are attacking fiercely on a sixty mile
front along the northwestern Rumanian frontier. At the
same time they have have opened heavy assaults against
the Russian lines north of the Carpathians An official
statement from the Rumanian war office this afternoon
admits some Austro-German successes in this new of
fensive. The Teutons have pushed down the Trotus val
ley to the town of Agas, where they are engaged in bat
tle with the Rumanians. Berlin dispatches yesterday re
ported that the .'Germans had broken through Gymes
Pass, leading into the Trotus valley, and were driving
eastward toward the main railway supplyingvthe north
ern Rumanian armies.
The Russian war office, however, announced the re
pulse of all Teutonic attacks near Dorna Vatra. It is in
this region that Von Hindenburg is delivering his hardest
blows, apparently planning to drive a wedge between the
Russian and Rumanian armies. The Austro-German at
tacks north of the Carpathians apparently are to prevent
the shifting of Russian troops southward to meet the
new attack.
In the Dobrudja, fighting has been resumed between
the Russo-Rumanian and the German-Bulgarian armies
fJI-along the .front.
Anglo-French forces have extended their gains in the
- last twenty-four hours of fighting on the Somme front,
according to official statements from the French and
British war offices. The French announced the capture
of another group of houses at the cross roads village of
Sailly-Saillisel, where sharp fighting has been goiilg on
for two days. The British pushed out north of Ancre
brook last night for the first time since the opening day
of the Somme offensive and penetrated German trenches.
- On the Macedonian front, the situation generally is
unchanged. The Bulgars counter attacked violently
. southeast of Monastir but were repulsed by the Serbs.
Trillion, Oct. 1". Aiming to drivo a
wedge between the Russian and Ruman
ian armies, the. Austro-Gerninns liave
launched a great new offensive near
the northwestern frontier of Rumania.
Strong Teutonic-forces, according to
I'ctrogind dispatches, are attacking the
Russian front south of Bukowina, near
tho point where the Russians and Ru
manians huvo joined hands. The Aus
trian and (Senium war offices announce
that the Russians have been driven back
it this point. Berlin dispatches re
ported that the Rumanians are falling
linck a :oss their own frontier. .
Kvcny indication points to the begin
ning of Von Hindenburg's widely her
aided campaign to crush Rumania. Tlio
Teutonic nttacks have suddenly become
more violent south of Krnnstndt, where
Oenernl Falkenhnyn is trying to break
through the Predenl I'ass- Southwest
of Kronstndt the Austro Germnns .are
attacking in large force and heavy
fighting is going on on Rumanian soil.
In Dobrudja there has been no change
in the situation in the past few days, ac
cording to official statements from tho
Russian, Rumanian, Bulgarian and Ger
man war offices. These statements re
futed a Petrognid wireless dispatch, un
It pays a whole lot better t' git even
with your friends instead of your ene
mies. These are great days fer bur
glars, with mother nn'Tnther both lined
up in political peradei.
, ... .
confirmed from any other source, report
ing that the Russo-Rumnuiuus had won
a great victory and were again before
Dobric, an advance of more than SO
miles.
Tragedy Nears Climax.
Berlin, Oct. 17. (Via wireless to Say
ville, I.. I.) "Tho tragedy on the Sum
me seems near a climax," said a senu
otric.ial statement reporting frightful
French and English losses in recent un
successful attempts to break tho Iter
man Hues north of the river.
When tho British rushed forward for
nn attack near (iuedecourt, the Sixth
German Infantry division left their
destroyed positions and, standing in the
face of the approaching enemy, turned
loose rifle and machine gun fire into
i dense masses of advancing enemy
, troops. These crowded columns were in
I some places literally mowed down.
"Detailed reports show that the at
tacks between October H and 13 are to
be counted among tho largest fighting
act-iua of the whole Somme batlje, "
i wrote the military critic of tho semi
official' Hewn agency. "The objects of
these huge French and Knglish efforts
were Bnpaume nud Pennine."
Allies Are Repulsed.
Berlin, Oct. 17 Repulse of British at
tacks near Geudecnurt and French at
tacks near Snillev and Fresnes were re
ported by the war office this afternoon.
South of tho Somme the fighting is con
tinuing. All along the eastern Trnnsylvaninn
frontier northward to Dornn Vatra, bat
tles are proceeding. The Rumanians are
stubbornly resisting at the roads lead
ing through the mountain passes. South
of Dorna Vatra, the Teutons have cap
tured heights cast of the river Neagra.
On the Russian front the Slavs con
tinue their violent storming attacks on
several sectors. West of the fortress of
I.utzk, and on the Narnjowka, they ad
vanced in dense masses but wore throwu
back with unusually heavy losses. Be
tween Sininvka and Zubilno nod south
west of Zaturcy, the Russians vainly
stormed Austro-German positions 10
times. Three attacks near Pastomvty
on the Dubnow sector also failed. The
Teutons took 1,930 prisouers and 10
mu.' hi no guns.
Took Greek Warships.
London, Oct. J i. Intimations that a
serious crisis is approaching at Athens
were contained in dispatches from the
i Greek capital this afternoon. French
sailors have occupied the municipal the
atre and have plunted field guns and
(Continued from page one.)
4c st sjc 3c sfc cc sc sfc )fc (
THINKS HE HAS GEEM
Rochester, Minn., Oct. 17.
Dr. Edwnrd Rosenow, head of
" the bacteriological department
of the Mayo Foundation here,
admitted today he had found a
germ which ho believes is the
cause of infantile paralysis.
Beyond saying it was found in
the tonsils of childron suffering
from the malady, ho refuses to
elaborate. 0
jfc ijc )J( ifc 5c )Jc sfc sjc s(c sc s(i s( sjc
KILLS HOUSEKEEPER
Think He Placed Body in
Trunk and Sunk It Far
Out In the Bay
Blaine, Wash., Oct. 17. Neighbors
of Stanford- China, aged fisherman who
shot himself through tho head here
yesterday, and died, are watching the
bench today in hope that the waves
will wash up the body of his house
keeper, Mrs. Emma Pinkerton and
clear up what they feel certain is a
murder mystery.
A net of evidence has already been
discovered indicating that Chinn had
taken the woman's life, placod the
bodv in a trunk, and sunk it far out
in the buy and then committed suicide.
Chinn was seen to row out nto the
bay with a trunk in his boat early last
Wednesday morning and return with
out it. Saturday ho Bold a bundle which
proved to be the woman a clothing.
Monday he Bet tiro to his house, fired
three shots at a neighbor's window and
then killed himself.
The missing woman is said to have
relative, John Smith, in St. Paul,
Minn.
Wheat Climbs Again
On Unfavorable Reports
Chicago, Oct. 17. Wheat soared in
the Chicago grain pit today on a big
export business and bail crop news
from Russia, England and Argentine.
December whent dosed up BVi to
$1.0:SVi. while May wheat advanced
04 cents to 1.4 3-4.
As the market opened nnir ana .i-i
respectively- higher for December and
Mnv wheat than last night's close, the
total gain for the day was 5 .1-4 cents
in December and 7 cents in May.
The finding was excited. Pit traders
insisted that wheat was certain to
reach $2 a bushel.
Other grains were up. Corn's total
gain for tho day 1 7-S for December and
IVi for May. Oats were up 1 3-8 for
December niid 1 1-8 for May.
Conditions In Mexico
Improving Rapidly
T.os Angeles, Cab, Oc.t. 17. Jose J.
Pesnuern, newly appointed Mexican
consul who arrived here n few days ago
from Mexico City opened a trade bu
reau in his offices at the consulate
today.
All 'information desired by American
business, men regarding Mexican trade
conditions will be readily furnished,
l'esquera also plans to ostuldish a com
mercial museum here as nn adjunct to
the chamber of commerce' exhibits.
"I see nn immense field here," said
Pesquera today. "Conditions in Mexi
co are steadily improving. Commerce
is going ahead and the wheels of in
dustry are turning strongly again."
Lawyer Scheduled to
Knockout Willarjl
T.os Angeles, Gil., Oct. 17. Jess Wil
larrl, world's heavyweight champion
pagilist and attorney Earl Rogers of
I.os Angeles arc principals today in a
2.",000 duinuge suit. Rogers is suing
the champion for "reasonable legal
services" tendered. Rogers declnred
in the complaint filed against Willard
that he had enabled the champion to
make his fortune by securing his release
from numerous contracts with promo
ters, Willar.l came to town yesterday with
a circus.
HOOD RIVER DEMANDS
HUNDREDS OF PICKERS
Hood River, Ore.. Oct. 17.Fac
ing a staggering financial loss,
applie growers of the Hood Riv
er district today asked every
man and woman to go into the
orchards and gather the crop.
Petitions were circulated to
close all stores and schools so
students and clerks can help.
Business men promised to con
tribute automobiles for the vol
unteer pickers.
Thousands of boxes of apples
are going to waste on account of
labor famine. Wilson Fike, one
of. the biggest ranchers, alone
lost 3,000 boxes. Unless the
emergency is met Immediately
many growers fear ruin.
THOMAS OSBORNE
GIVES SERVICES
Tl
Feels Certain His Methods
Are Right and Will Be
-Generally Used
MADE STUDY OF WAITE IN
SING SING DEATH HOUSE
Finds Him An Exception to
Whom Honor System Could
Not Be Applied
By George Martin.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
New York, Oct. 17. Out as "honor
system" warden of Sing Sing, Thomas
Mott Osborne is established in New
York today as consulting engineer on
lUIIOUIllllg (-111.-1 j
prison reform to any pennl institution ill
the world. Service free.
"I am still convinced that there are
no bad men in the world," said Osborne
today. "I am sure my method is right.
Some day it will be the only one in
use. "
"Do you think" Osborne was asked,
"that Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, who
confessed to murdering his wife's per
cnts, is a good manf Or is he bnd;
inherently criminnl and vicious!"
"I tiling Dr. Waite is insane," said
tho warden. "Not violently insane, but
excessively abnormal. He has control
over his mcntnl processes, but his mind
is so warped and distorted that his miir-
PRISON REFORM
dering his lather and mother-in-law by returned to the hotel Oakland, where a
poison is not surprising. luncheon was tendered tho visitors.
"I have studied Waite in the death ! Members of the party laugh at the re
house nt Sing Sing. His predominant i port that their special is n gathering of
characteristics are excessive self-center- j wives of millionaires, with a portable
intr. utter selfishness and extreme sen- palace for a train, and a cuisine: sur-
sousocss." - I passing that of tho majority of cx
" Do you think a man like Wnitc can i elusive hotels. -
be redeemed!" "With but two exceptions nil of the
"No. But that means nothing. ! women in the party aro self supporting.
Waite is one of his kind in a generation. ;
Ho is unique. He is not even a type,
Waito Should not Die.
"But Waite is under sentence of
death," I suggested. "Do you think
he should die in the electric chair as
he has been condemned to die!"
"No; I would not kill Waite. I would
not kill anybody. Waite should oe
locked up for life, I think."
"In solitary confinement!"
"No; he should be permitted to min
gle with the other men in prison. He
will always bo as he has been and is
now, but ho shonld not be executed."
"What does he say about himself now
that he has been in the death house sev
months!" "He says what I very seriously
doubt; that ho has hud a' change of
(Continued on page six.)
Waring Nations Prevent
America Sending Relief
To Poland's Starving Host
By Robert J. Bender.
(United I'ress staff correspondent.)
Shadow I.uwn. N. .1.. Oct. 17 Because
importniit differences still exist between
the allied and central powers under
which supplies may be sent to starving
Poland, President Wilson today an
nounced he was "not yet becu success
ful in inducing the powers to conclude a
definite settlement."
Some weeks ago the president wrote
n letter to the king of Kngland, presi
dent of France, c.ar of Russia, emperor
of Germany and emperor of Austria,
urging their co-operation in alleviating
tho suffering of the Polish people. To
day he issued a statement admitting his
efforts had been in vain.
The announcement' follows:
have now received replies from the
Itimr nf Kmrlnnd. the nrcsident of
France, the emperor of Germany, theisibility and method of relief for Poland
emperor of Austria and the czar of Rus- jauil to tender the friendly offices of this
sia to my letter'of July 20, ldHr; In government to negotiations to this end,
which I tendered the friendly offices of ; it being understood that any plan pro
this government in negotiations looking ' posed shall be of such character as to
to u fresh consideration of the possibili-1 be rdnpted to tho accomplishment of
ty and method of relieving Poland. It 'no rtbor result than that of the relief
appears, I greatly regret to say, that ; of the distressed inhabitants of Poland.
there are still important differences be
tween allied and central powers as to
the terms under which relief supplies
may be sent to Poland, I am disap
pointed that I have not yet been suc
cessful in inducing the powers to con
clude a definite settlement."
The president's letter to the European
rulers, pleading the cause of Poland,
was also made public today. It is us
follows:
" Your Majesty: In view of the over
whelming disasters which have befnllen
the millions of non-combatant inhabit
ants of Poland, I feel justified by the
universal anil honest expressions of the
sympathies of the American people, re
gardless of race origin or political senti
ment, to suggest to your majesty that
the subject of ways nnd means for the
(i
LOB
IN
MET AT OAKLAND
Members Grin at Report They
Are Wives of Eastern
Millionaires
SAN FRANCISCO WILL
WECOME THEM LATER
Wilson Women Arrange to
Give Them Good Time and
Some "Joshing"
Oakland, Cab, Oct. 17. Oaklund and
Alameda county today heard from wo
men of national prominence in literary,
sociological and welfare work just why
they believe Charles l-vans Hughes
should be chosen president. Members M
I'-- .
the women's Hughes campaign special
pnrty arrived here early today to preach
the gospel of republicanism, each from
a different standpoint.
An enthusiastic gathering of republi
cans and progressives met the special
train at 0:30. Following a few remarks
of welcome by Chairman Nichols of the
Alameda county republican central com
mittee, the visitors were placed in au
tomobiles, and a long procession travers
ed Oakland's streets, stops being made
at several points for 10 minute speeches.
Speeches were alio made nt the univer
sity campus, in Berkeley, in Fruitvale
mid A hi mod a and at some of the in
dustrial plants, lifter which the party
I here is not a millionairess in tho party,
which is compofed of representative
American women," said Mrs. Maude
Howe Elliott, daughter of Julia Ward
11 owe, and herself an author.
"It's for Wilson."
San Francisco, Oct. 17. There will
be no need for a special detail of po
lice when the Hughes women's special
party arrive in San Francisco this aft
ernoon. JVo riots wilt occur, no wo
men will be arrested. The women sup
porters of Wilson will merely give the
Hughes women a "good until red josh
ing." This was the announcement of the
lenders of tho Wilson women today. A
big "rubberneck" wagon has becu se
cured by the All Parties League for
(Continued on page six.)
snvliu.' of those of these people who still
survire be given the further benevol-
t ut consideration of your majesty 's gov-
i eminent. While no one can fail to ap -
predate the sufferings and sacrifices of
the people primarily engaged in the ex
isting wnr, nor the difficulties in the
wny of ulleviiiting tho hardships of
those who are the incidental sufferers
from tho war, the death by slow or
rapid starvation of millions of innocent
people is so awful a fact that such an
outcome should be averted if it is with
in the compass of human effort to avert
it. In the effort to avert it, I confi
dently pledge the cooperation of the
people of the United States, if only the
wuy can be found to make their co
operation effective. May I, therefore,
be permitted to suggest that an entirely
.fresh consideration be mven to the nos-
In conclusion, I can only add that it is
my sincere hope that your majesty will
see in this note no intention to interfere
with the rights and policies of your
maiosty's government, but merely the
t ttenipt to express to your majesty the
sympathy nnd compassion toward the
starving inhabitants of Poland felt by
the citizens of the I nited States a
svinuathy and compassion which they
do not desire shall bo evidenced merely
by idle words, "nit which they hope
they may be perniitlitcd to express by
assisting in the actual work by furnish
ing food to tho starving inhabitants of
l'ulntd.
"I have the honor to be, your maj
esty, "Faithfully yours,
"WOODROW WILSOX."
BY mil
CROWDS
js s(c sfc s(c s( sfc sfc j(t sjc sc sjc )Jc sc
FAKMEB BOYS WELCOMED
Portland, Or., Oct. 17 A vis
it to the Union Stock Yards, a
dinner and dance at Washing
ton high school and a iotoring
trip over Columbia Highway are
the principal features of tho en
tertainment which is being ac
corded California 's champion
farmer boys today.
The lads, each of whom holds
an agricultural record in tho
Golden state, start for Tacoma
tonight. They will cover tho en
tire country, visiting Boston,
New York, Washington and
New Orleans.
16 YEAR OLD GIRL
Hearing He Will Live She De
clares She "Is Sorry She
Didn't Finish Him"
Chicago, Oct. 17. "I'm sorry I
didn't finish him. I hear he's going to
live.".
That was tho comment today of Miss
Fern Roberts, ago 10, who Bhot her
father, Dr. Grant J. Roberts, a doutist,
here last night because he would not
return to her mother.
The girl, who is believed to be in
sane, referred to mm as ner lather,
though today Dr. Roberts Buiit he was
her step father.
Miss Huberts sunt she had urged ner
father to re turn bo his wife, from
whom he separated several years ago,
to which ho replied, "No, Tern, 1 can
never live with your mother again."
You will, or you will go to your
grave," replied tne girl, iiring inrce
bullets into his body.
She Confesses Shooting
Chicago, Oct. 17. Miss Fern Roberts,
aged Hi, who shut her father, Dr. Grant
J. Roberts, a dentist, three times last
night was arrested, here early today.
He will ecovor. Miss Roberts Confess
ed the shooting today and said she had
resolved to kill her rather unless no
consented to return to her mother, from
whom ho is estranged.
Dr. Roberts formerly was in tho
United Stntes medical corps in the
cunal zone and is well known here. Ho
wns taken to the Norwegian hospital
after the shooting, where nn operation
wns performed.
To the police Miss Roberts said bIio
was taking one of her cuatomury even
ing wulks with her father. She lives
with her aunt and met Dr. Roberts
nenr her home. After he refused to
yield to her pleas to return to her
mother, who is believed to bo in Now
Orleans, Miss Roberts drew a revolver,
she savs and shot him three times, then
fled down an alley. She was arrested at
her aunt's home. Her mentul condition
will be examined today.
Miss Roberts was suffering from n
bullet wound in her right knee which
she said was accidental. The revolver
exploded in some way as she was run
nimr tuld the iml'ice. Her condition
was nut dangerous, it was niil at Bride
well hospital today.
Two Mysterious Deaths
at General Hospital
Sun Francisco, Oct. 17. An army
board of inquiry today is iuvestigiiting
a second mysterious violent death at
l.etterinan general hospital within n
short time. The probe follows tho death
of Chnrles Walter Blackburn, a chenv
: ist, Sunday, after a fistic encounter
WITH Jllllll wiNin-j, ui"i.i
quartermaster's department.
Blackburn was undergoing six month!
training nt the Presidio, preparatory to
becoming a pharmacist in the army mcd-
icul corps. According to the Btory told
j enmninniling officers at tho Presidio,
1 Blackburn sought to bring a kitten ho
had found into u building to feed it.
when Wormley objected. Saturday the
quarrel was renewed and Wormley
knocked his opponent down. Black
burn 's head struck a cannon bull, cans-
! inir n bnsnl skull fracture.
Nothing wns known of thn nffnir
until Frank I,. Blackburn of Pelnliiinn
called at the Presidio to see his nephew
I He found him dead, and tho details en-
shrouded in mystery.
MINISTER TO BIAM QUITS
Albany, Ore.-, Oct. 17. Be
cause he wished his children to
enjoy the advantages of Amer
ican schools, William H. Horni
brook of this city, resigned as
minister to Sinm and will return
to Albany, according to Fred
W. Nutting, lessee of Horni
brook 's newspaper here who said
toduy: "Mr. Horalbrook tend
ered' his resignation Inst Muy
but It was not mnilo public. He
will visit in Iowa and Nebraska .
before coming back to the coast,
Mr. Ilornibrook Intends to re
sume his newspaper work in
Albany."
Hnrnihrnok went to fjium
early in 1914.
HUGHES
OUTS
It
OF TARIFF LAWS
Emphasizes Fact That They
Paid $107,000,000 Less
Under Present Laws
IMPORTED $384,000,000
MORE DURING THE TIME
His Figures Show Interests
of Consumer Are Hurt Not
Helped by Tariff
. ' a
By Perry Arnold.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Mitchell, S. D., Oct. 17 Speaking
before a farmer audience of 2,000, Nom
inee Hughes today analyzed in terms of
sharp criticism of the democratic
platform pledge as to the tariff and
solemnly warned his auditors that the
present plan of great appropriations and
decreasing of the revenue through im
port duties "couldn't go on indefinite
ly as though there was an inexhaustible
supply of money."
Hughes produced figures showing that
in 11113 under the Payne bill, the total
of imports was 1, 813,000,000 against
2,lH7.OOO,t)u0 in 1U18 under the Under
wood bill. Notwithstanding this vast
increaso ho declared the actual revenue
to tho government in duties on the! a
imports wns only 0212,000,000 inlDlB,
as against .'1111,000,000 under tho repub
lican protective policy.
As against these ligures Hughes rend
tho democratie platform endorsement
of the Underwood bill and the demo
cratic assertion that it stood for tariff
sufficient to provide for" ft government
economically administered. He de
nounced the administration for wasteful
extravagance in government.
' 1 The mere existence of resources and
the mere existonce of men capable of
handling nnd developing these resources
are not sufficient to insure prosperity,"
ho doclarod. "We must have adequate
government policies for maintaining the
advantages of our markets. We must
hnvo protection of American agricul
tural industries, otherwise our plans for
departmental regulation will be mere
barren forms."
The audience in this city of about
8,000 was mostly of farmers, many of
whom had traveled long distances since
daylight to hear Hughes expound hia
principles. The day was cold and
Hughes shivered frequently in hit
breezy rido to the hnll.
I BUI
Prcsdent Sproule Tells Kla
math Falls Folks to Wait
Two or Three Years
Snn Francisco, Oct. 17. Klamath
Fulls and the Klamath country offer a
splendid field for railroad development
hut extension at this time is impossible,
owing to continued unsatisfactory earn
ings throughout the entire system, ac
cording to William Sproulo, president
of tho Southern Pnciiic today. Sproule,
with Herbert Fleishliacker, financier,
has just returned from a visit to the
Klamath region, nt tho request of Kla
math people, who are anxious to secure
railway extensions.
"i regretfully told the Klamath peo
ple that our company is unable to do
any new construction work at tho pros
cut time, nnd could only say what haa
been necessary for railroads all over
to say of late that their desire to have
us extend is no greater than our desire
to open their territory," said Sproule.
"Immediately preceding the Haa
Francisco Kxposition, there were a num
ber of years of exceedingly low earn
ings lor railroads. Tho exposition open
ing nnd temporary closing of tho Pana
mn canal furnished our first ray of sun
light. If present conditions exist a few
years moro, there will be vast new con
struction on lines liko those in Klamath
already surveyed
THE WEATHER t
Oregon: Fair
tonight and Wed
nesday, cooler
this afternoon,
westerly winds.
CONSUMERS SI
