7
MAILS
From San Francisco
Gt, Northe rn, Nov. H.
For San Francisco
MatHOiiia. Nov. 15.
From Vancouver
Makura; Nor. 29.
Tor Vancouver .
Niagara, lh-c. . -.
rrO?
Evening Bulletin. Est. 1882. No. CC31
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV. No. 7672
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 101G. 12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
CAPTAIN - OF COLUMBIAN DECLARES WARNING : GIVEN. BEFORE STEAMER SUNK
BRITISH LAUNCH
NEW "DRIVE" UPON
SECTOR OF SOB
At Points New Offensive Cuts
, Way Mile Deep Into Ger-
man Trench Territory
VON M ACKENsIn IS SAID
TO BE RETREATING WITH
ARMY IN SERIOUS PLIGHT
Situation in Dobrudja Reporte
to Menace Force of Invad
ers, Which is Now Badly
Disorganized and Weakened
(Aocited Trf ty Federal Wireless) .
LONDON, Eng., Nor. 13 The Brit
ish today began a new offensive
north of the Abore river on the west
ern front, Somme sector, and before
their flrece charges had ended for
the day tbey nad made an Important
advance along the German salient,
which for months has thrust a wide
curve into French territory from
Thlepval to GotnmecourC The maxi
mum advance fnade by the British
was a mile and a large amount of ter
ritory was taken In. They captured
the towns of Beaumont I fame!, St.
Pierre and Divion, according to a
Heater's despatch from British head
quarters.
If the gain is as large as reporte J
and la held, the British will have
Ktralghtenud out their lines above
ThiepvaT, pushing on in the general
direction of Bapaume.
GERMAN REVERSES ARE.
CLAIMED IN DESPATCHES
LONDON, nngV Not. 13. A bril
liant . vtrfnrv hna hfpn won bv the
VsprbSans on the Macedonian front- ac
cording to a Renter's desDatch by way
of Salonlkl. The Serbians, who-have
back on ihe Czerna river bend, have
captured the town of Iven, says the
?lespatch.v if jthin ils"confirme4 u
means that the Serbians have effected
a new crossing of the Czerna river.
The Russians today are reported to
Viqva entered th IVvhrurUa RPCtinn it
two points south of TchernavoJa.
This heralds a big advance by the
Russians and Rumanians in their ef
fort to free Dubrudja of the invading
Teutons and Bulgarians.
has again bombarded the Rumanian
neaport of Censtanza, now- occupied
by Teuton troops undef von Macken
sen Meanwhile the dash which von
Mackensen made from Con stanza up
the Black Sea littoral and in Dobrudja
is aid to have been effectively
checked and the invaders pushed
back. Von Mackensen is reported in
full rejtreat, with his armies demoral
ized and one-third of his effective
forces lost.
Disease and military reverses, ac
cording to new from Petrdgrad, have
t-eriously affected the German morale.
It Is declared that remroreement.s
which he requested were not provided
and that he was caught In the Do
brudja, with winter coming on, his
trmies failing and the Russians Dom
ing down from the North to augment
the Rumanian, ngniers i
Von Mackensen is now said to be
retreating under serious conditions
with army in a, bad plight
SERBIANS THRUST FORWARD
hia.i MtA tVtit Dn1(r(tifino on1
Germans on the Macedonian front ha9
Kn a hr1Hont Irinmnh . Thft Prnrh
n.itMrv cunnnrtln' the SArhlan In-
nrr ii a ....aula v... -
fantry, drove the Germans back two
miles, the Serbians captured a thou
sanl prisoners and many guns.
BERLIN, Germany, Nov. 13. The
Austro-German army in Transyl
vania has captured three towns and
repulsed all Romanian attacks. Over
a thousand Drisoners have been taken.
BRITISH STEAMER SUNK
UUSXUVsi, tnsiana. iov. io. me
British steamer. Kapunda has been
sunk In thg war tone.
me
Estimate Thirty
Per Gent
' 4 4 4 4 4
f Alexander & Baldwin was this 4
Worning In receipt of the fol-4
lowing week-end letter from its 4
New York house relative to the
sugar market: .
"NEW YORK, N. Y., Xsov. ll.
Sales for the week were 9000
bags Porto Rlcos, 2912 tons full
duty, 114.000 bags of Ciibaa to re-; 4
finers. Small quantities of Cubas 4
are offered at 5.52, equivlent of 4
6:51 full duty. Refiners not in- 4
terested. Market steady. 4
"The estimate of the new 4
Philippine crop Is 220,000 long
tons as against the present crop
of 315,000 long tons." ;7 4
444 444 4 444-rf444
.
Philipp
Crop
Lower
GREAT NORTHERN
PASSENGERS TO
HAVE BUSY WEEK
Los Angeles Chamber of Com
merce Delegates and Tourists
Will Find Plenty to Please
KALAKAUA DAY WILLI
ADD TO THE INTEREST
Civic Organizations Prepare to
Act as Hosts to Boosters
From the Southland
.. .
Tuesday, 10 a. m. Arrival of
the Great Northern with delega
tion from Los Angeles Chamber
of Commerce, i
Tuesday, 12:30 p. m. Los An
geles delegation meets at. Alex
ander Young Hotel. -
Tuesday, 1 p. m. Luncheon
given by Chamber of Commerce
of Honolulu to Los Angeles dele
gation. Tuesday evening Opening of
Alexander Young Hotel. Roof
Garden with concert. 1
Tuesday evening Concert for
visiters at Pleasanton Hotel.
Wednesday, 12 in. Ad Club
hrist to members of Los Angeles
Chamber of Commerce.
Wednesday, 8:15 p. m. Ha
waiian drama at Royal Hawaiian
Opera House.
Wednesday, 6 to 11 p. m.
Dinner-dance at Pleasanton Hotel.
Thursday, 9 a.' m. Reception
at the home of Princess Kawana
nakoa for Hawaiians cnly.
Thursday, 9:30 a. m. Minia
ture yacht races in harbor oppo
site Healanl boathouse. j
Thursday, 3 p. m. Baseball:
All-Nationals vs. 2.th Infantry at
Athletic Park. .
Thursday, 9 p. m. Reception
and ball at National Guard Ar
mory, commemorating Kalakaua
dynasty. "
The: Hill steamer Great Northern
from San Francisco, San Pedro and
Hilo, will arrive here tomorrow morn
ing at 10 o'eiock on tnc first of her
winter trips to the Hawaiian Islands.
Bringing tourists from practically
every corner of the United States her
arrival means the opening of the tour
ist ser son here and the aloha will ex
tend throughout the four days which
she will lay at Pier 6 before her re
turn to California. . j ;
Many prominent people will be on
the big liner but none will be more
welcome than the delegation from the
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce,
who are coming 54 strong to witness
for the first time the beauty and
charm of these mid-Pacific islands.
From the moment that the Great Nor
thern steams into the harbor until she
sails away Saturday these men and
their wives will not be permitted to
spend a dull moment. With the Los
Angeles people are also coming Sena
tcr James D. Phelan; senator from
California, and L. C- Gilman. presi
dent of the Great Northern Paific
Steamship iCompany. ' vj '-''v,-;;';.."
The first aloha to be given the
Great Nortnern will take place before
she docks: As soon as she is sighted
off Koko Head a launch carrying the
entertainment committee of the Cham
ber of Commerce and -ilayor John C.
Lane and other prominent men will
leave the foot of Fort street and board
her: outside the harbor. Here speech
es of welcome 'will be made and a
large koa wood key, emblematic of the
great hospitality of the Hawaiian peo
ple, and whose magic will open all
doors, will be presented by Mayor
Lane. ':, ,' -. - - ; ,;,.r.
The Hawaiian band will be station
ed at the end of Pier 6 and as the big!
steamer sails down the harbor popu
lar Hawaiian airs will float out arross
the waters as a second welcome.
At 12:30 members of the Los An
geles chamber will meet at the Young
Hotel, from which they will be taken
to the Seaside hotel for lunch. Ac
ceptances have already been wired
from the Great Northern by John Mit
chell, president of the Los Angeles
chamber; Phelan and Gilman.1
Wednesday nocn the Ad Club will
be host at a lunch at the Young Hotel
and a fine program of music and
speeches has been arranged. The Ad
Club 10-piece orchestra will play dur
ing the early part of the dinner and
speeches and fun will fill the remain
der of the hour. ;''
Wednesday evening Umi-a-Uloa, the
Hawaiian play, will be put on at the
Opera House and it is planned to re
serve special ,-eats for the Los An
geles folk who care to attend.
. Thursday evening, however, will be
the big attraction during the Great
Northern's stay here as the, big ball;
ana reception m commemoration of
King Kalakaua will be held at thu
armory and the members of the Los
Angeles chamber of commerce have
been specially invited.
Throjghout the week all the local
hotels and resorts will have special
attractions to offer the tourists and
nothing will be left undone to make
these visitors teel at home. -
INTER-ISUU1D UNDER HRE IN REPORT
OF FIELD TO PUBLIC UTILITIES BODY
Steamship Company's Officials and Attorney Object to Docu
ment Said to Criticize Financial Affairs and MethodsCom--mission
Goes Into Star-Chamber Session to Discuss
Whether or Not Protested Document Shall be Made Public
Strenuous objection to making public certain portions of the report on
the Ir.ter-ls'and Steam Navigation Company's financial affairs and methods
filed recently with the public utilitie i commission by its auo'itor, H. Good
ing Field, was voiced this afternoon b Attorney L. J. Warren of counsel for
the company. at a commission meeting which tegan at 2 o'clock. .
As a result of Mr. Warren's protests the commission took at 2:40 this
afternoon what Chairman Charles H. Forbes called a "half hour recess,'
but '-.'which to all Intents and purpose was a tar-chamler session, with
the newspapermen and the public barred, only" officials of the Inter-Island,
its attorneys and members of the co r.missicn being present.
, The controversy began when Chairman Forbes referred to Fields' re
port on the company's finances, made as a part of the commission's Invest
tigation of the company's cattle-shipping tariffs, and asked if the Inter-Island
had any comments to make on the ieport, a duplicate copy of which
had been furnished the company by the commission.
"We have gone over the report," answerer Attorney Warreu. "and la
It we find certain matters which -e hope to present to the commission a
outside the scope of the investigation the commission is making and
which we feel should nt be made a matter of public record."
Warren then suggested an "informal meetinsi" of Inter-Island officials,
himself and the commissioners, to decide whether an amended report, con
taining cnly such nutters as the company thinks should be spread oa record,
should be prepared. "The commission and ourselves should be able to de
cide," he said. He added the meeting might take from 10 minutes to half
an hour., -. ':--r
Field was present but said not a word when Warren began his protest
against his report. Warren refused t-j make a statement containing his
objections to the report and insisted on the "informal meeting" being
held. '.'St '-'"': "' 'i
After getting the opinions of Commissioners Garden and Gignoux. nei
ther of whom made any objections to the proposition of Warren, Chairman
Forberf announced that the recess w puld be taken. The commissioners,
Vice-President J. L. McLean and Norman K. Gedge, assistant to the pres
ident, Attorney Warren and Auditor Field, went Into the commission's
mauka meeting room and began the session at 2:40 this afternoon.
Late
News
GERMAN CIVILIANS MAY BE MADE TO WORK
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands, Nov. 13. Berlin newspapers announce
that there will be a bill shortly introduced in the Reichstag to provide for
compulsory labor of German civilians. The announcement is not officially
confirmed.
BOURKE COCKRAN WOULD DEFEND ALLEGED "BOMBERS"
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Nov. 13. Bourke Cockron. New York lawer
and former congressman has agreed to defend wlthouf charge the men
charged with criminal conspiracy and murder in connection with the explo
sion of a bomb during the San Francisco "preparedness" ; parade several
months ago.
RAILWAY BROTHERHOODS HOLD STRIKE VOTE AS CLUB
NEW YORK, N. Y., Nov. 13. Failure of the railroads to live up to the
spirit of the Adamson law will result in the recent strike vote of the four
big rail! oad brotherhoods of employers being put into effect, according to
an announcement today by William Lee, head of the Brotherhood of Railway
Trainmen. He referred to the original vote to strike which resulted in the
hasty passing cf the Adamson law.
GRANTING LIQUOR LICENSE MAY BE OPPOSED
The liquor license commissioners are scheduled to meet this afternoon
to consider the application of Edward M. Bolton for the' privilege of sell
ing beer at Watertown. The request was made by Bolton last Wednes
day and vigorously objected to by G. t . Paty, secretary of the Anti-Saloon
League," and David Cary Peters, minister of the Christian church.
OAHU SUGAR CO.
ENLARGING MILL
New Plant Will More Than
Double Present Capacity and
Will Be Fully Electrified
First definite details given to the
public on the plans of the Oahu Sugar
Company 'were obtained by the Star
Bulletin today. These plans include
the duplicating of the present mill
besides other machinery and improve
ments to the present plant. They will
more than double the present milling
capacity of the company and the cost
is to be approximately a million dollars.'".-.-"
-v.
Higher price3 for sugar' have both
necessitated and warranted the en
largements to be made as well as hav
ing made the building possible when
it will be needed.
At. Hackfeld & Company, agent for
the Oahu Sugar Company, it was
learned that the' new machinery has
already been ordered , from th e Hono
lulu Iron Works and will cost when
completed nearly $1,000,000. The in
stallation will commence next Janu
ary and the plans call for another
grinding mill to duplicate the present
one in use, more boilers and boiler
machinery and the electrifying of the
plant for night work.
The installing of the new equipment
was made necessary by the recent
planting of more acres to sugar. The
new sugar cane will be ready to cut
In' 1918, and it is the purpose of the
company to have all the new machin
ery ready for use in time to take care
of that increased crop.
When erected the new units will
be able to grind from 45,000 to 50,
000 tons a year, . an increase of from
50 to 60 per cent
Santiago Montanilla, a Filipino un
der arrest at the police station for In
vestigation, Is suspected by Chief Mc
Duffie of the detectives not only of
entering a store on Aala street to steal
17 but also to carry the cash register
away with hin. . A woman is said
to havo seen him in the act
At
Glance
A
WAR RELIEF WORK
IS CONCENTRATED
Allied Society Formed Here to
Get Various Lines Under
One General Direction
Consolidation of many branches of
war relief work in Hawaii is Dlann?d
by a new society which came into
being this morning at a meeting held
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. W. it.
Castle. It is the Hawaiian Allied War
Relief Society and is in effect an out
growth of the war relief work car
ried on under the auspices of St. An
drew's guild.
The officers named today are Miss
Beatrice Castle, president; Mrs. . E.
L. S. Gordon, vice-president; Mrs.
Henry B. Restarick, second vice
president; Mrs. Wr. A. Wall, secretary;
Miss Margaret Hopper, treasurer;
Mrs. Henry Damon, financial secre
tary; Mrs. It. O. Matheson, chairman
of publicity work. .
Red Cross work will be the math
activity of the new organization,
which will cover all of the islands.
Just now the society is calling for
warm clothing to be sent to needy
ones in Europe. , ,
iinonnartpni are to be secured and
announcement of this will be made as
soon as the location is aeunne.
hoped to concentrate the war relief
work, so far as Red Cross and other
supplies are concerned, under one gen
eral direction to secure the greatest
efficiency,
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO n. OF C. BYLAWS TO
BE VOTED ON WEDNESDAY
At 2 o'clock Wednesday the regular
meeting of the Chamber of Commerce
will be held to take up the question of
amending the bylaws, the proposals of
which have already been mailed to
the members.
Many changes are planned and a
full meeting is desired.
This morning, the public utilities
committee of tHe chamber met to con
sider a report concerning the aerial
tramway over the Pali. The report
will be read at the meeting Wednes
day.;'' Switzerland has 796,909 cows.
Ms Britain
Take Heavier
Share on West
French M ilitary Expert Says
the Time Has Come to
Speak Plainly
Associated Prfus Ly KVJeral Wirt-ls)
". '."' ': '
' 4
LONDON, Kng.. Nov. 13. The
Ivondon Express today features
an article by Capt. Philippe Mil-,
-f . Iett. the well-known French mill-
tary expert, calling on Great Brit- 4-
ain to take oer more of the west-
f ern front, thust relieving France 4
of what is declared to be an line
qua I burden, a burden whic h
puts an unnecessary - strain on
the French people
Capt. Millet Hays it Is neces-
sary to speak plainly. He says
the alliance of Britain and France
cannot" be based on a mere ex-
change of compliments; lie ad Is
that the French gratefully recog-
nlze what Britain has done, but
the time has come to relieve the
French more effectively and to
prosecute the campaign mere ef-
ficiently than can be done while,
the French are holding more
then their share of the western
line. .
-.
f
BEGIN TUESDAY
Spalding Company Will Make
Start in Advance trf Signing '
of Final Contract
That work on Kalakaua avenue will
commence Tuesday is the good word
given out today by W. T. Spalding,
manager of the Spald!ng Construction
Company, which got the contract to
do the paving. Although the final con
tract has not been signed, Spalding
is anxious to begin and has given or
ders to have the parking in the middle
of the road torn out, which will have
and - paving commences. Tomorrow
morning a gang of men will start work
at the Ewa end.
The Rapid Transit Mil not be able
to start relaying its tracks before the
middle of December but as there is
considerable preliminary work to be
done by tle construction company, it
is not expected to delay the work.
Preliminary, work on Beach Walk
has also begun again. The Lord
Young Engineering Company is reset
ting the curbing to conform with the
new grades but the paving will have
to wait until cement arrives.
WINTER SETS IN
(Associated Pr by FfJeral Wireless) ;;
im.N'VBR, Colo:, Nov. 13 -Zero
weather was recorded here today and
in many Rocky Mountain regions the
cold Is the most severe ever known
for November. At Sheridan, Wyo., it
is 24 degrees below. The intense cold
"belt" reaches Into the interior ol
Texas.'
CHIEF JS DEAD
(Associated Pres by Federal Wireless)
FLAGSTAFF; Ariz , Nov. 13 Per
cival Lowell, founder and director of
the observatory at this place, died to
day cf apoplexy. . .;,.':
FROSTS MENACE COAST
(Associted Press bjr Ffdeml Wireless; .
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Nov, 13.
The wreather bureau predicts killing
frosts tomorrow.
4 4 4 4 4 . 4 4 4 4 4 4
AERO CLUB TO
ELECT A PRESIDENT
Governors of the Aero Club of
Hawaii wi'I meet tomorrow
morning at 10:30 o'clock to elect
a president to succeed Gen. Rob
ert K. Evans, who has just re
tired as commander of the Ha
waiian Department.
4 4 4 4 4-4-4 4444-4
HALAKAUA AVE
PAVING
ROC Y MOUNTAIN
OBSERVATORY'S
PRESIDENT TACKLES PROBLEM
OF SUBMARINE ATTACKS; W".U
HINTS OF CHANGES TfJ CABINET
SEVERAL MEMBERS OF OFFICIAL FAMILY WILL POSSIBLY
NOT REMAIN AFTER MARCH 4 FOR "PERSONAL REA
SONS" LEGISLATION TO BE PRESSED BY ADMINIS
TRATION AT SHORT SESSION
;.i BULLETIN ' '
(Asaociated Pres Servir by Fedri WirUa
CORUNNA, Spain, Nov. 13. Captain Curtis of the torpedoed American
Hawaiian steamer Columbian arrived here today with the crew of the ves
sel, all of whom were rescued. He says that for six days he was a prisoner
on the German submarine U-49, and that warning had been given his vet-
eel before it was torpedoed. He was taken aboard the submarine and th
crew of 109 put on boats and all saved.
BERLIN, Germany,; Nov. 13. The
that German torpedo-boats on Friday
and effectively shelled a Baltic port
'range..-
ROME, Italy, Nov. 13. Sixty women and children were killed by an
Austrian squadron in an air raid Saturday when bombs struck a building at
Weadova.
WASHINGTON, I). C. Nov. 13. President Wilson, back at his offices,
after two months spent at Shadow Lawn and on his campaign tours, fac-d
serious international problems as he took up his work again. 1
He has been busy since coming back with conferences and looking over
papers dealing with the submarine crisis and the tangled and ominoun
Mexican situation. r ' '
He expected to give first considt-ration to the submarine situation, as
it is admitted to be serious. The attacks en the British horse transport
Marina and the Amerlcun-Hawuiian steamer Columbian have brought be
fore the Kovernment several pressing questions of policy, involving Ger
-many's pledges to safeguard tiie live o.t neutrals and non-combatants at
The-president . has net given any extended consideration to the ques-.
tion pf changes In his cabinet, it is said by' those close to him. Thero
is a possibility that several of the present members of the "official fark
ily" will not remain in the cabinet after March 4, when Mr. Wilson enters
his second term. They will retire for personal reasons, according to the
well defined gossip around Washington.
Because of the improbability that the house will have a Democratic
majority, the president Is planning to
considers important during the short
sible of his preferred program will be put through, at this time.
The president made no statement yesterday and he U expected to re
main mute regarding the attitude he expects to take until the Republican
leaders have. admitted his victory and their own defeat. .:
The president expressed himself &a pleased at tae result of tha ballot
ing on the border, especially among the Minnesota' troops. The vote .
in the state gives Minnesota to Mr. Hughea by 2G(f, with several pre-
.1111 A . . t. a - M- , m A. a . 1 . f . i M - 1
ciucis sini w iie ncura irom, dui iae soiaier voce is i4voring ftir. wusoa
by a ratio of about 14 to J2. t '-:'
j : PLAN BIG LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM :
Administration leaders declare that they intend to exert themselves to
complete the Democratic program before the adjournment of the next sea
sion cf congress. Many measures arc to be introduced by the Bourbon
leaders, they say, all of them along the lines already urged by Mr. Wiiaoa
and hU lieutenants. .
Among other measures which are regarded as being certain to-come
up for consideration this coming winter will be 'a bill providing for irami- :
graticn reform. It was pointed out that Mr. Wilson has uixi more than one
.1 i i ' -. r m At. r . f 1
uucasioa uuciarfu ior a reiunii ui iuu r,isimg jaws. ;
MANY MEASURES ARE CONTEMPLATED ,
Th.? corrupt practfse act now in force, it was asserted, falls short of
what the presiuent wishes to see
uoayin? me ta jas 01 Air. wiison win aiir.osi ceriamiy do miroaticea m me
lower house early in the coming ses-sion. -
Still another bill Imposing further restrictions upon campaign expen
ditures is contemplated, while the administration leaders also propose to
push through , if possible measures for the conservation of water-power, re-,
vising the existing railroad laws, and providing for vocational education, per
mitting the organization of. collective selling agencies abroad and for a
more elaborate scheme of national deiense. J
Both Republican and Democratic leaders ; admit that the members of
the lower hou?e of congress face one of the strangest and most uncertain
organization s'taations in the history of the nation. There are at present
a few districts doubtful, but there Is apparently a Republican majority of .
three in the house.
INDEPENDENTS HOLD BALANCE OF POWER
This majority, acknowledge the G. O. P. leaders, is obtained only by
figuring in the congressmen elected on the independent ticket In Mas
sachusetts, and the progressive member from Minresota. It is believed
that these members will vote for and with the Republicans for organiza
tion rinrnrns Mlthni'?h it la iio3a!hlA that thpv mnv iwfn? to tho Damn.
crats. . ::.' ,-' v. ' ;. '.- .'. " ':,
There is little likelihood that the official recount of the ballots will
make any change in this situation, although It is possible in one or two
districts. The delegates from New Mexico, Pennsylvania and North Caro
llna are doubtful.
Minority Loader Mann cf Illinois and Champ Clark of Missouri, now
speaker of the house, are likely to be the two candidates for the-sieaker-ship
when the house meets. . ; .-.!.' - , t
Whatever happens It Is certain that the Republicans will not be able to
control legislation, for the Democrat will iiave a working majority of 12
In the senate. . .''.'. -:! :''
PRESIDENT IS GIVEN
OVATION ON HIS WAY
HOME TO WASHINGTON
NEW YORK, N. Y., Nov. 12. Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson passed through
Albany ?nd Troy yesterday evening on
their way to this city from Williams
town, Massachusetts. ; In each city the
president was given an ovation and
crowded with congratulations on the
outcome of Tuesday's voting. Crowds
gathered at the railroad stations with
bands, while the whistles of the ma
jority of the manufacturing plants in
the two cities blew their welcome
to the successful candidate.
The president srent last night here
and will be In the city until this even
ing, when he leaves for Washington.
No Glimmer of Hope
While the total vote in some of the
states has not yet been definitely de
termined, there appears to exist no
further possibility of any change of
material benefit to Mr. Hughes, while
there is some possibility cf the Min
nesota vote being thrown Into the
Democratic column.
The vote of tie Minnesota guards
men on the border has been slightly In
a majority for Hughes, but even with
this his lead Iaat night was only 248,
with some precincts yet to report. It
is claimed that the missing precincts
are for Wilson, but by how much is
not known.
German admiralty announced today
night entered the Gulf of Finland
and a Russian naval base at short
-?
secure .'certain legislation which-he
session this winter. As much as pes :
in operation, and another measure em-
WILLC0X REFUSES STILL
TO CONCEDE DEFEAT TILL
OFFICIAL COUNT IS MADE
NEW YORK, Nov. 13 Until the
last vote cast in California at the pres- "
idential election Tuesday is tabulated
in an official count the Republican
party will not concede defeat. Candi
date Hughes will remain In New. York.
foreeoine his vacation, waitine with
William R. Willcox. chairman of the
Republican national committee, to see
if an official count of the California
votes will make any change In tha dis
position of the state s 13 electoral
votes which bv a narrow marzln are .
now cast for President Wilson.
Chairman Willcox, after a confer-.,
ence with Mr. Hughes today, arnotinc.
ed the plan to wait an official count
in California. He said:
"The Republican national commit
tee and the supporters of Mr. Hughes
are In the same position now as they
were on the nfght of the election. The
Issue for us Is not decided.
"We desire an official count cf the
votes In California, where apparently
there Is only a narrow margin of a
few hundred votes cn which the bsue
pends. Until stfch; an official &unt Is
completed the Republican party will
not concede defeat.
"Far be It from ui to deprive PresI
dent Wilson of one vote properly
cast" .
