I
/ ' - _____
Overcast. tonight if ^ ^ aO IMf "From Pre** to HoiW
and tomorrow; colder mod- MSm B -A > JM liV 4^ * /t )|( U
mne xjujttttm met. a."m
? ( y B I y j / <wopb net Circulation. Month ot October.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 12. ^ 1B1B, Dolly Average, 7?4?1j Snaday, 58,071.
No. 29,501. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1916.?SIXTEEN PAGES. " ONE CENT.
G. 0. P. HAS CHANCE I
TO CONTROL HOUSE
?
Supremacy, However, Depends j
Upon Action of Progressives,
Socialists and Independents.
REPUBLICAN PLURALITY, 5 I
With every congressional district
heard from, the republican plurality >
In the House of Representatives is f
still extremely small, but there is a r
chance for that party to control the r
speakership and the appointment of f
committees and the organization of the v
House. This, however, depends entire- c
lv on the way the six progressives, so- t
cialist and independent members cast
their vote for Speaker on the first day S
of Congress. Returns now place the g
House membership at 217 republicans, c
2?2 democrats and six scattering. The n
latest change from figures published t
yesterday is in New Jersey, where John
Kathbone Ramsey is now said to have j i;
been elected over his democratic op- | a
ponent in the Hachensack. N J., dis- j d
trict.
i n
Becount Is Demanded. ! "
J
There is so close a fight in the third r
district ihat an official recount is de- j
manded Representative Scully claims |
to have won by fourteen votes, while
the official returns give Robert Carson, o
republican, a majority of eleven. In c
the eleventh North Carolina district n
the returns give Britt. the republican, v
a majority of eleven votes, but a re- \
oftunt hoc hopn Hr?i % nHpi! n
The complete membership of the f
House for the Sixty-fifth Congress, ac- t
cording to present figures, is as fol- t
lows: ' h
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 1 f
, ti
w
A list showing members-elect of the
House, according to latest returns, fol- ; f?
lows: j
Asterisk ( ) indicates incumbent. ! n
Numeral at left indicates congressiona' ; ti
district. ' w
ALABAMA. j tt
1. Oscar L. Gray, dera.' ; J;
2. S. H. Dent, jr., dem.*
3. Henry B. Stegall, dem.*
4. Fred L. Blackman, dem.* **
5. J. T H'flin. dem.* ?>
?. W. B. Oliver, dem.* i el
7. John L- Burnett, dem.* a
8. K. B. Almon. dem.* i w
9. George Huddleston, dem * ; o1
10. William B. Bankhead, dem. j
ARIZONA. j b<
1 Carl Hayden, dem.* J si
AHKA.VSA3. "
1. T. H. Carraerajt. dem.*
t. W. A. Oldfleid. dem.* !
i inhn n. Tillman, dem.*
4. Otis Wingo. dem.* n<
5. H. M- Jacoway, dem.* P
C. Samuel M. Taylor, dem.*
7. W. S. Goodwin, dem.*
b
CALIFORNIA. n
1. C. F. Lea, dem. d
2. J. E. Raker, dem.*
3. C. F. Curry, rep.*
4. Julius Kahn, rep.*
5. John I. Nolan, rep
6. J. A. Elston. rep.*
7. D. S. Church, dem.*
V hi. A. Hayes, rep.*
H. Randall, prohibition.
10. R. W. Bowden, dem. !
10. H. D. Osborne, rep.
ti. VV. Kettner, dem.*
COLORADO.
1 B C. Ililliarii d?m.* '
2 C. B. Timberlake, rep
3. Edward Keating, dem.*
4. E. T. Taylor, dern.*
CONNECTICUT.
J. A. Ixmergan, dem.
2. R. I'. Freeman, rep.*
3. J. Q. Tilson. rep.*
4. E J. Hill, rep
5. J. P. Glynn, rep.*
DKLAWAHK. "
At large. Albert F. Polk, dem. n
<1
FLORIDA.
1. H. J. Dratie, dem. ,
2. Frank Clark, dem.*
3 J. W. Kehoe, dem. ^
4. W. J. Sears, dem.* # \
GEORGIA. "
3. J. W. Overstreet. dern.
2. Frank K. Park, dern.*
3 ?* R. < 'rtsp, dem h
4. W. <7. A damson, dern r
?>. v? . r?. xjuwdiu, urm. T
b. J W Wise, dem 1
7. Gordon Gee. dem.*
v Samuel J Tribble, dem .* v
S? T M Bell, dem ?
10. Carl Vinson, dem.* ,
11. J H. Walker, dem ^
12. W. W. Garsens. dem.
IDAHO. )
At large Marion J Kerr, dem ?J
At large. A T. Smith, rep
ILLINOIS. !
1 Martin H Madden, rep .*
2. James H. Mann, rep.*
3. William W. Wilson, rep.*
4 t'harles Martin, dem.
5. Adolph J Sabath. dem * t
t?. James M? Andrews, dem.* \
7. Niels Juul. rep. ; ^
k. Thomas Gallaher. dem.*
. Krederx-k A. Britten, rep.* j v
10. George K. Koss, rep *
11. Ira C. Copley, rep.* ^
13. <*. K. Fuller, rep*
13. John C. MrKenzie. rep.*
14. W. J Graham, rep. f
la. K. J King, rep.* e
lb. Clifford Ireland, rep. o
17. John A. Sterling, rep * \
Ik Joseph G. Cannon, rep.* a
1!# William B. M?Kinl?-y, rep.* 'I
2'? Henry T Kalney. dem v
21. Goren K Whaler, rep* v
22 William A Kodenberg, rep*
i'i Martin K Foster. dem
24. T S Williams, rep.* |
25 E. T. H* unison. rep*
At large. William K Mason, rep.
At large. Medill McCormick, rep.
INDIANA.
1. George If Ltenton. dem. j
3 William E. Cox, dem.*
4. Lincoln l>lxon, dem.* I a
4. W. C. Duncan. prog. 1
5. Everett Sanders, rep. , '
6 T> W i 'omstock. rep. I
7. Merrill Moores. rep.* *
8. Albert II. Vestal, rep.
9. Fred S. Pumell, rep
10. Will K. Wood, rep.* .
11. Milton Krauss. rep. |
12. Lewis W. Fairehild. rep.
12. 1*. V. Hoffman, prcg.
13. Henry A. Haruhap' dem.*
IO?e,
1. C. A. Kennedy, rap.* '
2. H. E. Hull, rep.* ' j
3. B. K. Sweet, rep.* ! ,
?k 4. G. N. Haugen. rep.*
b. J. M. Good, rep.* s
6. C. W Raniaeyer. rep.* i *
(Continued on Fifth Page.) 11
PRESIDENT WORKS
AT PILED UP DESK
attacks Delayed Correspondence
After Two Months' Absence
From White House.
\IO CALLERS ARE RECEIVED
President Wilson, triad to be back,
vorked ardously today upon delayed
orrespondence and important official
natters claiming his attention. He renalned
away from the executive ofices.
spending his time in his study,
vhere an immense pile of letters and
fflclal documents glared at him from
he big table he works upon.
He made no appointments, although
Secretary Lansing saw him at noon rerarding
the questions that have again
ome up over submarine activities that
nav conflict with German promises to
bis country.^
There will be few appointments durng
this week, it is said, owing to the
ccumulation of work for the Preslent
to dispose of.
Political and other callers were minerous
at the White House today, but
tone of them saw the President. They
ubilated with Secretary Tumulty and
elated incidents of the campaign.
Mr. Woolley Is Congratulated.
Robert W. Woolley, who had charge
if the publicity end of the democratic
ampaign. and who has been complimented
upon the effectiveness of his
rork. was one of the callers. Mr.
Voolley resigned director of the
mint to take up the publicity work
or the democrats, and he is one of
he men President Wilson is expected
o provide good positions for. There
as been some talk of Mr. Woolley
eing put on the tariff board, which
'resident Wilson has not named, but
he understanding is that the President
ill appoint men not identified with
olitics. Mr. Woolley is said to be due
c?r a substantial promotion from his
ormer position of director of the mint.
The President asked early today for
le latest information on the political
lake-up of the House of Representaves
in the Sixty-fifth Congress. He
as told indications from present reams
were that republicans would
ave 217 members and the democrats
12 with six members of other parties.
The President was understood to be
mch concerned over the make-up of
le next House chiefly because of its
Tect on the selection of the Speaker
nd chairmanships of committees,
hich he is anxious to see in the hands
f democrats. As far as legislation is
->ncerned. it was said today, Mr. Wil>n
is confident that most measures to
e proposed by him would grain the
jpport of enough republicans to carry
lem through.
Plans to Pugh legislation.
Because of the probability tfmt The
ext House will be republican the
resident is laying plans to secure as
luch important legislation as possile
during the short session opening
ext month. Measures he particularly
esires passed are those to allow Amer an
exporters to establish common
?lling ageneie? abroad, to enlarge the
iterstate commerce commission and
j create machinery for preventing in
ie future a crisis similar to that
hich recently threatened to involve
le country In a railroad strike and
ther railroad legislation suggested
y him when the strike threatened,
he President has begun preparation
f his next message to Congress. He
laos to urge that a number of these
i;< t ir ns be taker) up.
Mr. Wilson continued to refuse to
iake any comment on the election pend?g
the receipt of formal word from Mr.
lughes and the republican national
ommittee conceding his re-election.
May Go to Hot Springs.
Henry Morgenthau, chairman of the
nance committee of the democratic
ational committee, called on the Presient
today.
After a brief stay in Washington the
'resident may go away for a rest beore
Congress convenes. Hot Springs.
a.. was mentioned as the place he
night visit. He will make no definite
dans, however, until he has go t in
horougn touch with official business
iere and learned whether the subrnaine
or Mexican situations require his
resence.
Secretary Lansing planner! to confer
kith President Wilson today on recent
ubmarine atta< ks on vessels carrying
Americans and on the Mexican situaion.
While officials admit that the submarine
situation is filler! with grave
oss i hi 111 r-s, r i r? action will be taken
intil further reports have been reeived
It was sairl today that no eviso
far. has been received by
he State pepartment proving that
Jermany's pledges have been violated.
No Cabinet Meeting Tomorrow.
No meeting of the cabinet will be held
omorrow, according to plans at the
Vhite House today, although there has
?een no session of the President's adis.*r;
for nearly two months.
It was said today that President
Vilson will resume his conferences
kith newspaper correspondents. He
ormerly met the newspaper men twice
a'h week and talked to them about
ffi' tal arid other matters. These interiews
were abandoned more lhan a year
go. but about a month ago the Presierii
again began seeing the newspaper
enters who wanted f?? k?-ep in touch
kith him ??n political subjeets.
RESIDENT SOON TO SET
DAY FOR THANKSGIVING
The President probably this week
vi 11 issue a proclamation designating
he last Thursday in this month (30th)
is a day of thanksgiving and prayer,
n view of recent political events it is
ealized that the preparation and
jhraseology of the paper will require
somewhat more delicate treatment this
k-ear than usual.
RUSSIA IS TO BORROW
TWO BILLION RUBLES
rETKOdKAl). November 13. via London,
3:56 p.m.?An imperial ukase
promulgated today authorizes the Russian
minister of finance to make issues
ibroad of treasury bonds to the amount
>f 2.000,000.000 rubles as occasion may
requiAS*
v
--
FORESEE NO CHANGE
IN WILSONCABINET
Political Sages Believe All
President's Advisers Will
Be Invited to Remain.
TWO MAY ELECT TO RETIRE J
|
Men with an intimate view of the inside
working* of the administration of !
President Wilson today emphatica'ly 1
prophesied that there will be no change in
the cabinet of the President after March 1
4 next and i:o chang. in any high official !
close to him. The machinery of the ad- '
ministration will, they predict, remain j
practically as it is today, including Joseph |
P. Tumulty, secretary to Mr. Wilson for
the last six years, including two years
when Mr Wilson was Governor of New
Jersey.
The best information is that the President
is not expecting the retirement of
| any member of the cabinet or of Mr.
j Tumulty. It is presumed that all the
| cabinet officers formally will tender their
resignations to the President, to take ef- .
i feet March 4. so that he may be free to !
! do as lie likes. Precedent in such matters I
! is almost sure to be followed, unless the
! President knocks it in the head by asking
j formally each cabinet member to hold his
I present post after March 4.
Voluntary Retirements Possible.
The only possibility of a cabinet
change, it is said today, is in voluntary
retirement on the part of those :
who may wish to leave official life
and return to business or private life.
Of those now in the cabinet two men
are mentioned as possibly contemplating
such a change. These are Secretary
McAdoo of the Treasury Department
and Secretary Redfield of the Department
of Commerce. Mr. McAdoo
is officially and affectionately regarded
by the President as one of the ablest'
officials of the administration, and it
! is known that he can stay at the head j
of the Treasury another four years .
I if disnosed. The Secretary, however, is!
declared by some close friends as hav-|
ing a longing to get back to the activities
of the business world.
Intimations are known to have been i
conveyed to him from giant business j
and banking concerns that he can ,
i name his own salary if he wants to j
I quit the service of the government, j
j Some of these offers, which may form- Z
I ally be made to the Secretary in the I
j future, may tempt him, it was said to- I
! day. He has spent much of his own I
\ money to supplement his government j |
I salary. His expenses are large and he j |
has hope of providing for the future in 1
a business way, it is said. But if Mr.
McAdoo ever does leave the cabinet it j
will be against the remonstrances and i
objections of the President.
Mr. Redfield Also a Business Man. j
Secretary Redfield, too, is a business j
man. He was in business prior to en- ! ^
tering Congress, and his attitude is j
said to be much like that of Mr. Mc- j
Afloo:' Hfs retirement, hdtvever, wffP
depend wholly upon his own desires.
As to Secretary Tumulty there is not!
I the remotest prospect of his being re- I
tired from his position. If he leaves \
j the President he will do so because he R
j is thinking of the future of himself '
and family from a financial viewpoint.
| His salary is not that of a cabinet offij
cer. but he has to maintain an estab- i p
lishment almost as expensive. His
I family is large and he is affected by!
j the increasing cost of living. He had a fi
; good income as a lawyer before he
| went with Mr. Wilson six years ago, '
! tit. o- rxlV^fa t/. raniimt.
practice of law have been made to him. ; PJ
On th<- other hand, he likes his work ati\ j,
the White House, and the close and
cordial relations he bears to the I'resi- i
dent. No political or other pressure 1will
be able to affect him, it was said
today, and the prospects are that he
will stay where he is, regardless of
considerations that tempt him to return;
to his profession. i 1
! p
Garfield Considered. I (J
In case there are any changes in w
President Wilson's cabinet, it was un- j
i derstood today that among those who w
| would he seriously considered are
J Harry A. Garfield, president of Wilj
liarns College and a son of former ! g
j President James A. Garfield; Samuel j u
Ij. Seabury, the defeated democratic j u
i candidate for governor of New York. I ,f
and Vance C. McCormick, chairman of M
the democratic national committee.
POST OFFICE MEN PROTEST.
! s
Declare They Are Made to Work s
More Than Legal Time.
XKW YORK, November 1'!.- In a let- ' ii
ter to President Wilson, made public t<
todav, Thomas F Flaherty, secretary '
and treasurer of the National Federa- ,
tion of P<?sf < Clerks, entered a
! protest against working post Office
j clerks more than eight hours a day. i
I The letter calls the attention of the
President t?> th?- fact tf-at a law pass'-d
| by Congress provid* d that clerks shall
j not be reouired to work more than *>
i eight hours a day within ten hours, and !
j ror WOriM"* ' -* ? oo "1 nils I?> u?;
! paid overtime in proportion to their ; *
? salaried. r
"Tins law contemplated that only in j 1
emergencies should more than eight i n
Hours be required," Mr. Flaherty said j 1
in his letter. "Vet, in many of the j 11
large post offices, notably New York, j <
Chicago. Boston and Cleveland, the j
clerks are forced daily and nightly to '!
work ten, eleven and even twelve hours. j(
J UOSTbN. November I'?. The National . a
' Federation of Cost office Clerks, at. a a
meeting here y sterdi.y, adopted a r? s >iution
calling upon the incoming Con!
gress to niciease their maxiniutii pay ?'
i from to a year. The reso- "
i Iution sets forth that the high cost of A
living makes the pr. sent maximum in- s
j adequate.
Ernest A. Carrere Dies of Injuries.
NEW OULEAXS, November 13.?Ern-. r;
est A Carrere. president of the New p
Orleans Heal Estate Exchange, died in ^ v
a hospital here today of injuries re- j c
ceived at the fair grounds yesterday, : n
I when an automobile driven by Clifford I
Toft of Kansas City crashed through 1
the race track fence during an automo- I
! bile race and struck Mr. Carrere's car,'
fracturing his skull. Toft was seri-| K
ously injured, but physicians said his ?
j condition was much improved today. ' s
Gov. Whitman on Way to Border.
NEW OKI-BANS, November 13.?Gov.
Charles S. Whitman of New York, accompanied
by Mrs. Whitman, was in
New Orleans today en route to McAllen.
Tex., where he will insi>ect several
thousand national guardsmen of the
Empire state on border duty there. The
governor and wife planned to rest here
until WxlBMUy. t
j
IPETOPROTEST |?1I
BELGIUM PROGRAM:
? "?" . Belief Expressed
atican Is Aroused by Deporta- Take Over La
tion of Workmen to the ]
Germany. I By the Associated Pro<
' LONDON, Novem
The Express featui
flEN SEIZED BY THOUSANDS day'"lssue ';y* F
er. Capt. Philippe
Great Britain to ta
J the Pre**. western front and
PARIS* November 13.?Dispatches I ^ Ml,,et sayf
rom Rome say that the Pope is about sJ)ea plainly, th
> send a note to Germany protesting r'reat Britain an''
trongly - against the reported whole- bas*fl on a f,re r
lie deportation of Belgians. The dis- mr'nfs ar,d that
atches say that this decision of the WOn,lerinK whethe
ontiff has become known semi-official- rea,ize what is hap
v in Vatican circles. j Time Now
For "Good'' of Belgians. | He says the Fror
AMSTERDAM, via London. November fuI,v what nreat
3.?The Koelnische Volks Zeitung ,lonP' but ***} ****
ublishes a long article on the subject 'or tbe Rritisb a
f Germany's deportation of Belgian Fr"nch ,nore < cie
.'orkmen, in which it says, in part: 17. lift i* Jf'tos 1
* deputies to suppor
"These measures are not connected marks that the Bril
rith the war, but are dictated solely 150 kilometers on
y consideration of a sane police ad- to the French 5S0 k
linistration, which could not allow
housands of able-bodied workers to People Look
0 to ruin by remaining deliberately
nemployed and spending their time There is not on
nprofltably in cafes. Germany's action where the people
1 the result of hurnanitarianism, which friends to enable
:ould justify even the use of coercion i " ,
i the circumstances." j s'-vcn months har
J some rest during t
Not Making War Munitions. | prepare for an ,i<lv;
HKKLIN, November 1?., by wireless to j OUI naving 10 exna
ayville, N. Y. According to the Over- heir Pn'Vl're
eas News Agency authoritative denial all expect the reli
i made of statements from Belgian the French line to
ources that Belgian workmen are be
ig compelled to labor in German factories
in which war materials are made. ! TEUTONS TAK
MAY BE NEAR AGREEMENT. 0 F R U S S
lexican-American Joint Commission
Believed Making Progress. ' Pctrograd Admits
AT LA NTH' <'IT V. X J . November 13. I All-Day Battl
Hope that an agreement on the pro- I Lem
ram for tin- restoration of amicable rettions
between Mexico and the United
States might be reached by the Mexican- UKTROCIKA I). No
imerican joint commission this week was don, November 13
evived by a conference yesterday at battle in Galicia, so
Philadelphia between Luis Cabrera, chair- Austro-Oerman tro
lan of the Mexican commission, and tion of the Kussiai
tafael Nieto, subsecretary of the depart- office reports. Th
lent of finance of Mexico, of which Mr. curred in the vicir
abrera is the chief. and Svistelniki.
It is believed here that an agreement heavv flkrhtiritr
ntered into by the commissionrs for bor- y ^ K. ia
er control may have the effect of secur- since the Russian:
ig for the Carranza government a loan, German positions t
It hough it may not be for a large ..,n , region ?
mount. , . .
Tli? presence in the United States of ^v'-stelniki the ent
1r. Nieto was taken by some as an indi-! trenches we had c
at ion that the monetary phase of the sit- j day, and at
lation was being discussed by him and}, . ', ' ? .
1r. Cabrera, although the Mexicans in- ^ s> statem
ist that they have asked for no loan. J "In the course o
j raged until evening
c ied in recapturing a
Seventh R. R. to Attack Law. ! destroyed trenches.
CHICAGO, November 13.?The seventh j BERLIN, Noveml
ailroad to attack the Adamson law ap-ito Sayville, N. Y.~
eared today when suit for an injunction "Lt'erday^ opera"!,
vas filed in the United States district front from the Ba
ourt by the Chicago and Eastern Illi- pathian mountains,
ois. man ollicial statem
Two Norwegian Ships Sunk. T(J Assemble t,
LONDON, November 13.?The Norwe- , .
;ian steamships Daphne, 1.388 tons DIL(?< ?
;ros8, and Seirstnd. .10tons, have been avai'able un tS ? 1
t-~ ?cnnmhlf>fl here
unk
this month during
naval commission, 1
TLinirr miral James Helm
ENCOURAGE THRIFT, naval plans, it was
If you have no further use for to- day. The naval I
day's paper save it for the school stood, will consider
children's playground fund. tablish a permanen
Call Main 6000 and ask for the training base at N<
nearest public school, and any ac- junction with the
cumulation of old papers will be ation School, and
sent for. the matter of cor
Yesterday's record was nearly nine and submarine stat
one. rltory.
f
I BRILLIANT VICTORY
BY SERBS CLAIMED
_______
Reported to Have Driven
Enemy Back Two Miles on
Macedonian Front.
MANYPRISONERS CAPTURED
By tho Associated Tress.
PARIS, November 1?.. noon.?The Serbians
have won a brilliant victory over the
Germans ami Bulgarians in the Cerna
district, southeast of Monastic, the war
office announced today. The Serbians,
supported by French artillery, forced
the Teutonic allies to retire a distance
of nearly two miles and captured about
l/>00 prisoners.
The retreat of the Germano-Bulgarian
force was compelled after a battle lasting
two days.
Th* nricnnorc tal/on nisp Ihp tot.-11 I
CftTpdi CmUimeA;
(fayo ~$w
^a/ieJs &%>. _
&$?wuwtx? 6ccrt69jtat& /i/ns
^tcri^-corzxppokj^
(SveMf-. wntijteej&i^ fcL#
mg^Vamyyiets acfcCs& *
N
FOM PREDICTS ALL-YEAR
ITHEBHTBH SATURDAY HALF DAY
That Ally Should
rger Section of John F. Costello Believes PresiFront
dent Wilson Will Grant It
to U. S. Clerks Here.
ber 13. 9:47 a.m?
res an article in torTm
Tilitam writ" SEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Millet, calling on
ke over more of the
relieve the French. ^
"The thousands of government work!
it is necessary to ... . ,,
. | ers In Washington will pet the yearat
the alliance of, , ,, ,
round Saturday half holiday, and even
France, cannot be i ,,, , ,,
,. more. They will soon see a civil servixchange
of compli- ;
,, : ice retirement system instituted. I feel
ail F renchmen are : .
... .. verv sure. This statement was made
r the I.nglish fully;
l?v John F. Costello, democratic napening
in France.
' tional committeeman for the District
to Do More. ! of Columbia, today after his return
from New York, where he has been in
ich recognize prate- I direct charge of the speakers' bureau
Britain has already I during the presidential campaign,
the time has come "In ;i general way I know what is in*
! President Wilson's mind regarding the
rrny to relieve the , development of the-'TSational Capital,"
ntly. i he continued. "1 know he intends to
ltterances of French i it the most beautiful city in the
t his claim and re- I entire world. Having been in close,
tish are holding onlv ! personal touch with him, I feel that I
the front, compared j can safely predict that during the next
;ilometers. He adds: 1 administration Washington will see
1 these other great projects of particular
4-? T 1 1 I'liiii'frn t r? th?? nf tho Vatinnol
?-V J-t I It: iallu. v"*'{Capital
started,
e village in France j
do not expect our Projects to Be Started.
us. after twenty-J "Development of the south side of
d struggle, to have j Pennsylvania avenue, with the erection
he third winter and | of government buildings and the lay?nce
next year with- ing out of a great park.
uist ourselves. This "Development of the Great Falls
:r]nr^7 ? < ><* ? * ? * ??
ef of a good hit of to t,1R District, and this work to be
be made soon." done entirely at the government's exnense.
_ Of~r*Tiniu 1,1 my ?binion when Wilson's second
t SECTION term ends he will have made himself
beloved in every home in Washington,
IAN TRFNCHF^ ^?r ' know he has great things in mind
intivunco for the ,.ai,jtal (ity as soon as other
more pressing necessities allow him the
time for this work nearer home."
Reverse, After an i ?
e Southeast of DELAWARE PLURALITY
ber*- ; FOR HUGHES NOW 1,273
vein her 12. via I.on- j WILMINGTON, Del., November 13.?
.?After an all-day The official canvass of the vote of
utheast of Lemberg, Delaware at last Tuesday's election for
ops captured a sec- President was completed today and Is
ii trenches, the war as follows:
e engagements oc- llughes, 23, < ft4 : W ilson, 24,321: Han ?
fiii ly. <>94, and Benson, 4S0.
y of Lipmcadolna These fl(,ureK do ?ot incluile lhe
where continuous soldier vote from two counties cast in
s been in progress New Mexico,
s captured Austro
hen- last week. LOST MILLION IN FARES.
>f Lipnicadoina and j ?
my i.omb.iriie.i the stiike Costly to the New York Rail
aptured throughout; " ~
tacke.i will, law Way* Company.
ent says. I NEW YORK. Xovember 13.?During
f the battle which 'September and October the strike of
the enemy succeed-: street railway employes caused the
section of our halt- j passenger revenue of the New York
I Railways Company, operators of sur)?r.
l'-% wi'*eless face trolley lines, to drop $1,047,420
-There was nothing . ,
tance to report in below the amount derived from this
3ns along the battle source in the same period of 1915, aeltic
sea to the Car- wording to a statement published by the
says today's tier- company today. There were 23,589,919
gnf fewer fares carried during that period
than during the same two months of a
* year ago. A large proportion of this
13 *fi T?1 4 number used the subway and elevated
16 racinc xlC6t. lines, which showed an increase in reNovember
13.?All ceipts of nearly $1,000,000. ,
the Pacific fleet will
the latter part of Campaign on for 30,000 Members.
: the visit of the NEW YORK. November 13.?Beginheaded
by Rear Ad- ning tomorrow the railroad branch of
i, according to the the Y. M. C. A. will start a ten-day
announced here to- campaign for 30,000 new members from
J\ 5? under - tl railroads throughout the country,
the proposal to es- , t 7..
t naval aeronautical I 111 ?J"UCI l"aL 1,1 s^utning
orth Island, In con- yard may know of the campaign postpresent
Army Avi- ers have been tacked to thousands of
also will look into freight cars throughout the country,
structing a supply Railroad officials, from presidents down
ion in adjacent ter- to track walkers, have been organized
by the membership committee.
?
/
captures since September 12. says the j
statement, to 6.000 men. together with
seventy-two cannon and fifty-three ma- i
chine guns taken during this period.
Repulsed. Berlin Reports.
BERLIN. November 13, by wireless
to Sayville.?Serbian forces yesterday
launched attacks against the Bulgarian
and German positions south of Monastir
and in the bend of the Cerna
river, but according to today's German
official statement they were repulsed
with heavy losses and the Bulgar-German
positions were maintained.
Serbs Continue Pursuit.
LONDON, November 13.?The Serbians
are continuing their pursuit of
the defeated Bulgarians in the Cerna
Bend and have captured the village of
Iven, according to a Reuter*s dispatch
from Saloniki. Iven is five miles north
of Polog, reported captured yesterday,
and is about ten miles within the Serbian
border. Its capture, if confirmed,
also means that the Serbians have effected
a new crossing of the Cerna
river.
Sofia Admits Advance.
SOFIA, Noverbem 12, via London, November
13.?An advance for the Ser- |
bians in the Cerna bend is admitted in \
the official statement issued by the war
office today. i
SERENADE TO FEATURE
PARADE AND JUBILEE
President and Mrs. Wilson to Hear
Chorns of 200 Voices, Probably
Thursday Might.
A serenade for the President and
Mrs. Wilson will be one of the features
of the big red fire and torchlight parade
and jubilee being arranged by the
Wilson and Marshall Democratic Association,
and other organizations. A
music committee, headed by Walter
Costello, was organized today and immediately
arranged for the serenade,
which will be sung by a chorus of
J 200 voices directed by Mrs. Charles H.
I Fred. The tentative date is now Thursl
day.
! Charles W. Darr arid George W.
j Linkins called at the White House to
day. They conferred with the President's
secretary. Joseph 1*. Tumulty,
i who gave them the information that
i the President would rather see the
proposed parade and jubilee a citi!
zens' affair without the slightest tine-*
of politics. "When the parade idea was
first discussed there were a few jubilant
democrats who declared they
would have nothing to do with the
parade unless it should be a strictly
all-democratic affair. Cooler heads
than theirs prevailed, and the counsel
of the White House is that any friends
of the President, regardless of politics,
who wish to take part can do so
without embarrassment.
Red Fire to Be Had.
The shortage in red fire is decreasing,
and Chairman Darr today was promised
a carload of it if he desires. The
big question discussed by the commit- ,
tees in charge was the date and the
number of bands. According to the
latest schedule, there will be seventeen
bands in line. The democratic central '
committee, which represents thirty-two 1
districts, promises a band for each four i
districts; navy yard employes promise <
three bands, the Wilson and Marshall
Democratic Association will have one 1
band, ami perhaps two; the Kight-Hour
League will have a band, and other 1
organizations will furnish music \
enougn to bring the number to seven- '
teen at least.
The American Federation of Labor, now \ '
in session in Baltimore, will be asked to- 1
morrow to adjourn on the afternoon of j
the jubilee and reception and come t >
Washington to take part in the parade
John Lurch will go tomorrow to the convention
as special messenger and request
that Samuel (Jompert. president of the 1
federation, appear at the head of the division
which would represent the organization.
The Mississippi Society will have thre?
sightseeing automobiles in the line of c
march. W. S. Krwin. vice president of c
the society, announced today that he \
would be glad to hear from Missies ppians
who care to appear in the parade.
His address is Quebec st.eet nort.i- j 1
west. j ^
MISSIONARIES IN CONFERENCE, i
,
Gathering of Methodists in New
York to Last Three Days.
NEW YORK. November 13.?A large s
number of missionaries on furlough c
from many lands and Methodist leaders f
from all parts of the United States attended
the annual meeting of ?he board
of foreign missions of the Methodist
Episcopal Church which began a threeday
session here today. Four public 1
meetings will be held.. Tonight Bishop a
William H. Quayle of St. Louis, Mo.. v
will give an address on "The World *
Empire." Two meetings will he held
Tuesday, one at Newark, N. J., whep
Bishop William O. Sliepard of Wichita,
I.' .. .. i.-ill SBPillf oil "Tin. Unirit.iol !>o.
publics" and the other meeting in
Brooklyn, which will be addressed by J
Bishop F. J. McConnell of Denver, Col., ^
who will speak on "Mexico." At New
Rochelle Wednesday evening Bishop n
William F. Anderson of Cincinnati, e
Ohio, will speak on "Facing a World 1
Situation." # K h
4
BRITISH GAIN MILE
IN SOMME BATTLE,
IS LONDON REPORT
New Offensive Launched This
Morning on Both Banks of
the Ancre.
2.000 PRISONERS TAKEN;
BATTLE STILL RAGING
Germans Are Swept From Positions
They Have Held for More Than
Two VAflra
By thp Associated Press.
LONDON*, X ovember 13, 4:45
p.m.?Tiie British troops in their
new offensive north of the Ancrc
river have advanced to a maximum
depth of one mile, capturing
from the Germans the towns ot
Beaumont-Hamel and Saint Pierre
Divion, according to the correspondent
of Renter's Telegram
Company at British headquarters.
Fighting still is going on between
the German and British
troops around the town of Serre,
about two miles north of Beaumont-Hamel.
Two thousand
prisoners already have been taken
by the British.
Story of the Battle.
The Reuter dispatch says:
"We attacked early this morning.
Already the British line on both sides
of the Ancre has been advanced for a
maximum depth of one mile, capturing
the villages of Beaumont-Hamel, considered
by the Germans impregnable,
and St. Pierre-Divion, and also valuable
trenches north of Serre.
"All these positions were a part of the
heavily fortified original German main
line, and had been occupied for more
than two years.
"Many prisoners have been taken.
Already 2,000 have been colIn tha
advanced cages.
"Fighting continues around Serre,
the only place not captured in the
first assault."
Serre is nearly four miles north of
Thiepvai, the northern end of the front
on which the battle of the Somme was
fought during the summer.
Official Be port of Battle,
LONDON, November 13, 1:40 p.m.?
The British opened an attack this
morning on both sides of the Ancre
river, on the northern part of the
Somme front. The war office reports
the capture of a considerable number
of prisoners.
The statement reads: "This morning
we attacked on both sides of the Ancre.
capturing a considerable number
of prisoners.
"Hostile artillery actively continued
during the night on our positions in
the neighborhood of Los Boeufs and
Guoudecourt. Gas was successfully
discharged by us against enemy
trenches opposite Jtans. The enemy's
trenches were entered by us southeast
of Armentieres."
Berlin Says Attacks Failed,
BERLIN. November 13, by wireless to
Sayville.?Attempts of entente troops
to advance between the Ancre and the
Somme yesterday were broken up by
German artillery fire, the war office announced
today.
In upper Alsace the French took the
offensive, but their efforts to advance
failed completely.
In the town of Sailly-Salllfsel, according
to tho statement, the German
froces continue to hold the east edge
L>f the town.
Official French Reports.
PARIS. November 13 (noon).?There
was only the usual cannonading: during:
Lhe night along the front in France,
says today's announcement by the war
>ffice.
The official communication issued
last night read:
"North of the Somme we completed
:he conquest of Saillisel and carried,
vitn grenades, some groups of houses
n the eastern part of the village where
arties of Germans were still holding:
L?ut. The whole village now is in. our
possession.**
SIFTING DEATHS OF FOUR.
irmy Officers Investigating Sudden
Demise of Soldiers.
LAREDO, Tex., November 13.?Army
>fficers are investigating the sudden
leaths of four United States soldiers
lere within the last seventy-two
lours. Private Michael Headin of
rroop I, 14th Cavalry, was found dead
esterday in a camp roadway, but
vithout any indication of what caused
lis demise. It is believed lie may
lave been suffocated.
Private Paul Torrey of the 9th Inantry's
supply company, was struck
ind killed by a train. Two other
oldiers previously were killed by a
:omrade who is believed to have been
lemented and who is being; held for
nvestigation.
viator Killed, Passenger Injured.
BUENOS AIRES, Argentine Republic,
November 13.?While Pierre Macho, an
Lviator, was making; a flight today
vith a passenger, his machine fell. The
iviator was killed and his passenger
vas injured.
Judge J. W. Timmins Dead.
SAN ANGELO, Tex.. November 13.?
udge J. W. Timmins of the fifty-flrst
'exas judicial district died suddenly
lere yesterday. Judge Timmins was
lected to office for the tenth time last
'uesday. His death was attributed to
leart trouble
