;tT
NIGHT
. EXTRA
' TOli. IH.-2TO. 52
FURIOUS BATTLES
RAGING ALONG ALL
RUMANIAN FRONTS
., Great Struggle for Con-!-
stanea-Cernavoda Rail
way Continues
SERBS' PUSH ADVANCE
KMian Successes Menace Both
Falkcnlayn's and Macken
i serfs Campaigns
LONDONJNor. 13. UussUn soldiers
.Ifktiftff wh the Rumnnlatis have
KCMtd'tfaJDanubc at two .Joints and
soiiew engaged with General von
Jfoekensenta Germnn allies In Dob-
rasHs, saynt'S Rome wireless dispatch
tsefey. BJth crossing were forced
stn of Ccirnavoda and the rear of von
' Xttkensen'h army is threatened.
1 1 - Russian nvarships have resumed the
" tanbardmtmt of Constanza.
1 rETROGIUD, Nov. 1J.
Vigorous (lighting In every Quarter of
the numanlan theater of war Is reported In
" oHspatches arriving hero today. Progress
has been imndev on both sides, but. accord
ling to TAichaoest, the main success lies
wHh the inuaso-Rumanlan forces. In the
feetbrs ofl the Trotim "Valley the Tlusso
r ftumantans Stave captured two mountain
keights, but post ground In the Jlul Valley.
Desperate hlghtlng Is taking; place In the
Alt Valley.
i Jn' Do&rudjaj the Itusso-Ilumanlans are
at crips wlthjfvon Mackensen's army and
tae'Jiottle forfpossesslon of the Constanza
i Ceraaroda railway Is still on.
J
lF
j LONDON, Nov. J5.
RtisBlass, Rumanians and Franco-Ser-Maas
ase continuing their hammering;
against helllncs of the Central Powers On
' every eastern and southeastern front to
eW. 'Ad aome points Germans and Aus
trian! eseiattacklng fiercely, but, according;
It advices; from all the capitals, the larger
Nteues i ara being; won by the arms of
VStaata Allies.
(tminB about Cernavoda for possession
leVajwat .Danube span that forma the
.lyonage in Europe, ana wnere me
silrlght-wing Is reported from Petro-
have partly jsuccetded In turning;
L's left flank, apparently Jias
kmost critical. staKe,
i tire dispatches which told of Cerna.
if'U (limes and of'Constanxa, where the
Sel-man-BUIgarlan extreme nint
Ytiii' its, base on the Black- Sea, fired,
neaaer details have reached here re-
io-dlng tse Dobrudja clash.
n Mtlltaryj experts believe the j-esult at Cer
' shvedavvrtll depend partly on the fifty-mlfo
rrward)dash of Ruseo-Rumanlana against
eseratHafkenhayn'fl armies In Tranaylva
sia fan bellow the Bukowlna border, where
defies fee nnovements have been succeeded
W sJdge-Jiammer offensive. Any meaa
taartla oueoeesea In this region, the experts
lejisve, must weaken the Cernavoda-Con-Haasa
front, of Mackensen.
'Balgars, re-enforced after Friday's Serbo
Dreach Vucceeses on the Cerna front, ap
flrtntlyl have failed to stem the advances
t.jkngrPeter-; troops, who are reported to
taftrmtde further material progress.
-y' BUCHAREST. Nov. IS.
0-4 thel right of the Alt Valley the Ru
' lianahave been forced to yield ground
"t the region of Saraclbste, the War Offlce
ejesoinoea today, Enemy attacks to the
ltt wVe repulsed. The official announce-
uuows:
In the Cerbural Valley two enemy at
laoki were repelled. We also main
(ataed'our positions about Dragoeavcle
Wierta battle that lasted hroughout the
la? the Jlul Valley enemy pressure
k Coatlnnea on rase Yoai. Column Two
rlATHER EMILE VILLETTE DIES
fcHrior General of VincentianvOrder,
Who Visited House Here, Suc
cumbs In Paris
-
ThVery RSv. Err A Vlllette. Superior
Nwal of the Vlcentlan Order, died In
attars Prance, of uremia November 9, ao-
to word received here today. He
" . M. alxty-ona years old, and was elected
'IMpertor general ofthe order July JO, 1914,
,? before warwas declared In Europe.
P K Vlllette was little known pr
)n America, although hla name was
I in the Vteoetten Order through
i world. He cam to America only
vUtted eyry house of the' order In
' y1 "tatas in 1999, In" the course of a
L 7T """ t two weeks In Phlla
r25 ? Vineent'a Sem(aary on Chelten
? in Lille, Prance. Father Vlllette
fn a pries for thirty-eight years.
i Mywirywr, R Cambral, Krwee,
1 hamt MNMMUNiter neural at'the
Hoae of the Order In Jarta.
Wfc S(HWl,aw(Wi for Father
w he oalebraUd nejtt y(Uy
, IlBHISejMlatS 0AMlfl
1 Hieltsu aveouej
"' " ""T" J '
THE WEATHER
rCMMCAUT'
PKiUuUtpkU mU vUmUHMJi.
k t m . . i r
una r""-"" - r, ,;--.-
rite ft. . i7Kmm.
"wi wmTSiTLSirr
im Hurva
iinr)ii
mmnKWLm
tcuEtitiig
'FINANCIAL EDITION-
STHATi
''
A-
.fSirv
Mv -i
fcjtget
PlIUiADBLPUt.V, MOXUAY, NOVUadJEll 13, 1910
Corttia
ii t, mo.
it tns rpeuo Lnori Covuht
GERMANS DEFEND
SOMME LINE WITH
BURIED ARTILLERY
Guns Concealed" Under
ground Defy Terrific
Fire of Allies
TRENCHES IMPREGNABLE
British Capturo Many Prisoners
in Attack, General Haig
Reports
W
CARL W. ACKERMAN
SOMEWHERE ON TIII5 HAMXJJ K.
10 (via Berlin and wireless to Sayvllle,
November II).
Oermany Is defending the Somme with
burled artillery.
In their assaults the French and British
aro attacking only the surface of tho great
est fortifications in the world.
Oermany built a surprlso for the Allies
here In a wonderful series of artillery-proof
fortifications. These defenses are built so
close, are dug so deep; and cover auch
wide erea that what the Allies are today
attacking with Infantry, tanks and artil
lery are only the outskirts of a powerful
system of underground forts.
The" bombardment Is terrlflo. Fields,
woods and towns are torn to pieces by
constantly exploding shells. But under
ground nothing is touched. And It Is from
her sub-surface forts that Germany is re
pelling the Allied attack.
For n week I hae been over the 8omme
battlefield. From a. height near Peronne
and to the south of Arras our party twice
penetrated the shell area, viewing Peronne
and Bapaume, the two Immediate objects
of fire. It marked the first time since the
Somme baUIe began that a neutral has been
permitted tb Inspect this part of the undei
ground fortifications constructed by the
Teutonic forces. While waiting In the.
library of a castle serving as a headquarters
of one of the commanding generals, the win
dows rattled and the doors shook from the
concussion of bursting shells.
TVIth constant explosions In our ears and
escorted by intelligence omcers, wo motored
to tho heights of Bapaume. There we
watched the British fire in the town. Only
one church spire and one chimney Is still
standing.
Although In approaching the front we en
countered seventeon. lines of trenches and
wire entanglements, the Somme battle'' Is no
longer' being defended from the trenches,
but with burled'drtlllerjr. For mlies as we
walkedwe passed holes In tho ground large
enough for men. t4 crawl Into.
FinM. ACUNST SHELLS
These were the entranoea to thousands
of underground forts, which the Germans
have built In an endless chain.
Tho underground defenses var In depth
Continued on Fare Four, Column Four
CONFIDENCE WOMAN
AND STOLEN $81,000
SOUGHT IN THIS CITY
Annie, E. Sharplcy, WhcJ Served
Term Here for Money Order
Fraud, Accused of Chi
cago Theft
HAS VIVID IMAGINATION
ijBfffHpRH"HPHa"fffffK
if R 'iilyFiB I
Ifirv N ' TaaHIIIIHill Ml
41 ! ' ' Mr 4 I
WTT
ii s
, '
. -. n . .7 '
sa :.. i
j-1? sm
i ' .', , ,i .v .!,r 'i .
MmiWtm
. ;V;4iZr?5fclto$
Ft sS
E ". " Jscv4titUifij&ixi ;vl itjar vi
-.- ' wtgjj?-!Tgip.g.-.yr.L-i
iML
&'$&&.
j!' mSP I S
ANNIE E. WIAKPLEY
A country-wide aearoh W bolBg Made by
the F4eral authorlUeo lor Ml AU K.
harply who la wanted Chago 'to ex
plain her financial aUjviUaj.
Word, was flasWed this afternoon that the
woman, who has had a meteoric career, is
on tho way jlo.PHadeJpW, Soorot sorviae
im and olty deteotives a watobtng fr
her,
i
'i
. . - i.' t
'A raaard or Miss faaJajSaUkMa aaraX. Jiulu
the laat thirteen years a4na a tbriilinr
nevL She has galiwd UmJ not oa4r m'k
BjMMMy-ordor rajoor, butas a raiaor of efcfek.
ooa, and botweea. tlnwi ahi aa4o ooor
tiwitr to write a play, r a aale4rta ad
poos as a toaobor U Froooh,
I hif t vobUh Mtos tturptoy, aj
stH. m, Kkr aM
lost Chlosfw kurrMUr without Mtat to
oay geooVby u Unoero.
Hotore dlosvpoortac Om WM sl4
lo have borrtaf M tMI lavy
( IHoTaTCHo'aBTifaBBBBBr iofP foJaJoW 0 ioBnMBi
' ' "'
BLISS FEAltS NO DLIZZARD
v -
Western Storms to Bo Spent Before
Arriving, Says Forecaster
The bllxxard indicated In the wralher re
ports from the far and Middle West Is not
expected to reach this section in a sere
fefm, according to predictions of the looal
Weather Bureau. Forecaster Bliss said this
afternoon that freezing temperature may
be.felt tomorrow night, but he does not ex
pect snow.
Although the Western temperatures are
record-breaking In some localities for this
time of year, Mr. Bliss said early snow
and billiards are not uncommon In the
nocky Mountains. Continued rain Is ex
pected tonight and tomorrow In eastern
Pennsylvalna.
Wisconsin nnd Iowa are covered with
snow from one to twelve Inches deep, nnd
drifts are jplled high In many sections. In
Montana the mercury has dropped to se en
teen degrees below aero, and In Sheridan,
Wyo., twenty-six below is reported. Freez
ing weather is general oer tho Middle
West.
PENSION MUTUAL
BONDS NOT FOUND
BY STATE PROBER
Assets of $971,200 Book
Value Declared
Missing
SENSATION IN REPORT
State Examiners Say Ledger
Carries Amount Not in Com
pany's Possession
Bu a Slag Gomtfondent
HAnmSBimo, Nov. IS Startling dls
closures relating to the business methods
of the Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany of Pittsburgh, for which n reoelver has
been asked, are embodied In the first pub
lished report of that company following the
examination by the Insurance examiners.
Although officials of the Insurance De
partment were reticent today In discussing
soVie of tho disclosures. It was reported
that criminal prosecutions might be In
stituted after arguments an, the applica
tion for a reoelver for the Pension Mutual
Life Insurance Company, whose deficit
amounts to l,O0M32, are henrd here next
Thursday, .As yet the company lias filed J
no answer with the Insurance Department,
BONDS AnH MISSINO
An Important discovery made by the In
surance Department fa that the Pension
Mutual Life-insurance Company still car
ries on its books bonds valued at almost a
million dollars which no longer are In the
possession of the company.
Questioned by Insurance examiners as to
the whereabouts of the bonds, according to
the examiners' report, Charles If. Frltch,
secretary of the company, and known as
Woods's "Man Friday," said that they were
returned to a New York banking vflrm.
However, no receipt was shown by any ofB
clal of the company proving that these
bonds were returned.
The bonds referred to were those which
Lyndon D. Wood, president of the company,
received for promissory notes which he
had received for sale of stock In his com
pany during the year of 1914,
Records on file In the ofjlces of the In
surance Department show that the only
Continued on rase 8U. Column One
DYNAMITE CAP COSTS FINGERS
Youth Toys With Explosive Until It
Knocks Him Down and Maims
Hand
Punching a dynamite percussion cap with
a pin today at the office of Oeorge Egolt
& Co., 2707 North Broad street, cost Carle
Lukena, twenty years old, a bookkeeper,
two fingers, and the thumb of his left hand.
Lukens found the cap In a quarry near his
home In Willow Drove yesterday. He put
It In hla pocket, and at the first convenient
moment today began to pick It with a pin.
f II exploded suddenly. Lukens was
thrown to the floor. Associates sent him
to the Samaritan Hospital. Lukens said he
knew the cap was explosive and blamed
himself for toying with it
CORN PRODUCTS GUILTY
IN ANTI-TRUST CASE
Tried to Form Monopoly to Make
t Starch, Glucose and Syrups,
Court Says
' , i
NEW YORK,' Nov. 1, The Corn Prod
ucts Refining Company ! held guilty of
violating the b Merman anti-trust law, In
a decree fcaaded diwp by Federal Judge
Hand today.
The corporation attempted to establish a
monopoly, theoreVse.re, In the manufao
t)we,ef staroh, gjntese and syrups. ,
A plan for tWosmmioa of the cor
poration muot'bo Moj( wkfelipjo days after
the entry of fbej.'4Mf vnlew there Is
ML.apfeaJ'to-'tfco & jMatos Supreme
Oowrt., t
The defendant Msf!far of the Com
Frodttot Company mm4 in the decree
aro National 8Urli Oopfeany, St! Louie
gyro? an4 FroMi-vIs Compauy and the
Jfovolty, Candy 'Ooaape,,, j,, nm
ttktos thora are vsi todivMuoj i.
'np3t wearing jb a
Ail ar
te
V
Fine 9mmni
ilsiii?
4 oWrhoof
U rvrno tjaf
GIRL IN BRIDAL
ROBES EXHUMED;
HUNT FOR POISON
She Was Victim of Jealous
Woman, Brother Tells
' Joroner
WEDDED 3 MONTHS AGO
Died From Natural Causes, Says
the Physician Who Attended .
Her Inquiry Begins
The body of a bride of three months was
exhumed today in Holy Sepulchre Ceme
tery, Mount Airy, and taken to the morgue
for a post-mortem examination by Coroner's
physicians to determine whether the young
woman died from poisoning.
Tho Coroner ordered tho post mortem
after Anthony Caleskl.' 3252 Umory street,
brother of tho dead woman, had expressed
the comlctlon that his sister had been
poisoned by another woman who Is Raid to
have been Jealous of her. Caleskl alleged
that nrscnlo was used to kltl his sister
Tho body IS that of Sofia Rojensska.
twenty-otio years old. 2816 Livingston street,
who three months ago was married to Roman
Rojensska, tnenty-flxe jears old, of S1B1
Richmond street. The ceremony was per
formed In 8U Adalbert's Catholic Church,
Allegheny axenue and Thompson street Tho
young woman died October 30 and was
burled November 2.
WORD WEDDINQ QARMDNTS
The ody wasexhumed by John F. BaJf
an undertaker, 31C1 Richmond street When
the lid of tho casket was removed nt the
morgue It was seen that tho body was at
tired In garments which the bride wore on
the day of her wedding. These Included a
whlto silk dress and a white veil. On the
second finger of tho left hand wan a wed
ding ring and In the right hand was clasped
a string of whte rosary beads, from whtch
was suspended a silver cross.
Tho post mortem will bo performed In tho
prosenco of the Coroner's jOry by Dr. Wil
liam S. Wadsworth. Coroner's physician,
and by Dr. William C. Robinson. Coroner's
detective, Frank Paul, is Investigating the
case, and If the lost mortem reyeals the
presence of poison, an arrest Is, expected be
fore night
PHYSICIAN'S STATEMENT
Dr. Qabrlel J, ICraus, 31S3 Richmond
street, who treated' the woman, said today:
"I treated her from the time- she became
ill,"three" U-eks lifter 'her ma'trlage. until
she died somo months later. Sie died In
convulsion which were apparently natural
to her Illness.
"I km told now that she used to pur
chase quite a quantity of arsenic whtch she
ead was to be used in Jcllllng ra(& The
Coroner may have his doubts about her
natural death, but I will have non unless I
am proed wrong." '
OFFICIAL VOTE COUNT
BEGINS IN CALIFORNIA
AS COUNTRY WATCHES
Gain of One Per Precinct Would
Give Hughes State by 2245
Plurality Result
Hinges on Tally
ATTORNEYS KEEP GUARD
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov.f 13. All Cal
lfornlo, stood expectant today when the
official count of votes In this State for
President began In each of the fifty-eight
counties. On the re'sult will hlngo the final
decision whether Charles B. Hughes's pres
idential hopes may be revived or have been
definitely blasted.
With the unofficial returns showing a
plurality for Wilson of 3021, It is pointed
out by Republican leaders that a change
of one vote per precinct In favor -of Hughes
would give him the State by 2245 pluralty
provided no votes were changed in Wil
son's favor.
Obeying instructions of the Republican
and Democratic National and State Com
mittees, attorneys and checkers representing
both parties were on hand to keep a close
watch on the official count Republican
leaders who refuse to abandon hope of
getting California will make their most
careful watch In San Francisco and other
strongly Democratic counties. Tho Demo
crats, on tho other hand, will check most
closely In Los Angeles and Alameda Coun
ties, where Hughes polled his largest vote,
Extraordinary care is being exercised In
the count, and it Is estimated that It will
bo more than a week befpre the work can
be completed
Excepting San Francisco and Los An
gelea Counties, the count Is being made
before the board of supervisors of each
county. In San Francisco and Loa An.
geles Counties the election commissioners
will canvass the returns.
ENGINEERS MUSTERED OUT
Company B, After Strenuous Border
Duty, Quits Service for Present.
Get $8000 Pay
Company B, Engineers, eonototlng of
eighty-one men and four uifleers, was mus,
tared out at noon today By Colonol rCharlea
C All". Flrot Regiment, K, O. P aloa a
captain In the regular -iy. He wore his
captain's uniform and l mustering the
mon out told thorn that although they were
mustered ot for tho time betng they wore
,(Ht uimUt orders from the UUd Stales
ajmiy. The men were ton paid olf, reeely.
22g all their back y asd eloUUng war
nuts. Between HO anal I tat VM ats.
Iributed uoorttf the moo. .
TM soleer lyo MM home eight day. ;
Uy and CosspauytA, o2 kmm svJosLJ
aww more actual boroor ftKy ta aftyon
the ahor lagimoBio w Toga. ,tm wore
ZZxmrt into the Ufttow fttos sorvkM
Joe M n ,h "? r lejt for- s,,
arrlvta at Caaap rorsMftf , July i Tfcojr
Mvo aJwajw roletrol to. a tho
-QUICK NEWS -
" PRESIDENT NOT TO CHANGE CAUINET
WASHINGTON, Nov, 13. Secretary ot Commerce llcdtleld, with
rrcsldcnl Wilson's consent, this afternoon nnndunced tbnt the,rc
would lib no lcslgnatlous of cabinet members nt tho conclusion or
'this presidential term. " President Wilson's Cnblnet uftci March 4
will fontitin the same men ns nt present," ho snld.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Pimlico race, maiden 2-yctit-olds, selllnp;, 0 furlongs N,
K. Real, 113, rnirbiothcr, ?10.70, 570, ?3.CO, won; Tfcrnut, J12,
Troxler, S5.00, $1.00, second; Merchant, 112, Hnynes, ?0i40, third.
Time, 1.10 3-5.
Second Pimlico race, Consolation stceplichnse, selling, 4-yeai
olds nnd un, a lullcs Now Haven, 148, Crawfoid, 910.00, i??.20,
$3.80, won; Itncobrook, 1-13, Noe, $15.10, $3.20, second Robert'' '
Oliver, 151, P.sVilHouiB,vf 1.00, third. Time, 3.58 3-5.
m
WHERE GIRL WAS KIDNAPPED
S ' - tt isHgogsssal m I ACBBBBsf ( M Mbl go11" IgOgOgOgSBHV Kf Ml Th W leOgSBBSV'll? K
Mil, .. I !! I . ll.l I I .- . . i i I I Ii . Mil 1 Ml I .1. .mi.. I .. .. .Ml
V1! i: i' .frin-- Tw....yrw..y.MM.
The sicond-floor window here is the one from which Jennie Olaiaie, wn
years old, was taken by a, mysterious man at the Gonzaga Memorial
Home, Germantown, last night.
cotton Prices the highest since civil war
NEW "VOnK, Nov. 13. Cotton touched tho highest lool since tho Civil War
on tho Cotton Exchange this afternoon, when July futures sold at 20.07 cents a'
pound nnd May nt 20.03, making gains of nearly J2'n balo today.
HUGHES CLINGS TO llOPE IN CALIFORNIA RECOUNT
NEW YC-IIK, Nov. 13. Charles Evnns Hughes nnd Itopubllcan National Chair,
man Wlllcox today clung to their view that perhaps the California vote 'canvass
would turn tho Hughes fortunes. This count was scheduled to start today. Mean
time Hughes stuyed at his Astor Hotel quarters and planned to remain there until
tho final California result was known. Thon he will take a rest, probably at some
nearby resort.
t SUPREME COURT REHEARS COMPENSATION. ACTS "
WASHINGTON, Nov. IS. Tho Supremo Court today reopened for argument
cases Involving tho workmen's compensation laws of tho States of Washington,
Iowa and New, York.
,
DR. PERCIVAL LOWELL, NOTED ASTRONOMER, DEAD
l'HOENIX, Ariz., Nov, 13. Dt;. Perch nl Lowell, world famous astronomer, head
of tho observatory at Flagstaff, Ariz., died Into last night of apoplexy, according to
word rccehed hero today, .---
WILSON GRAPPLES WITH "NEW FOREIGN ISSUES
WASHINGTON, Nov. 13. President Wilson today called Secretary of State
Lansing to tho Whlto House for n conference which will result in quick action on
diplomatic affairs with England, Germany and Mexico. Tho conference was for de
ciding upon the steps to take concerning retaliation against England because of the
boycott of American business firms, Germany's new submarine warfare In which the
Marina, Itowanmore, Arabia and Columbian wero Hunk with Americans on board,
and tho Mexican do facto Government's evident inability to master the revolutionary
situation along the American border, ,,
MARY PICKFORD FALLS OVERBOARD
MAnDLEHEAD, Mass.,. Nov. IS, Mary Pickford narrowly escaped drowning
off Marblehead Nock when an o)d fishing schooner, tho Eddie Miner, on tho deck
of which she was playing a fisherman's daughter for tho movie photographer, sprung
a leak and stuck its bow in tno mua. aiary lost ner hold on the helm and slid Intq
tho water when the boat began to list. She was grasping for something to hang
to when Director Tourncur camo to her in a fast launch at the head of a rescue
party and dragged her to safety.
BRANCH SEWER CONTRACTS AWARDED
Director Datesman, of the Department of Public Works, today awarded con
tracts for the construction of a number of branch sewers in various sections of the
city. Involving an expenditure of mora than $100,000. Tho meey for the wwk
will come from bonds Bold lost month as a part of tho general Improvement loan!
a.
AMERICAN WOMAN DECORATED BY KAISER
BBRUN. Nov, 13. Mrs.Joiios Mayer, of- New York, w" of tho mttUonako
Amerloan manufacturer, haa boon, doeorated with the Ro4 Croos modl fey order
of Smpetw WUho)m. Mrs, Mayor was; dooerated simultaneous? vrHH tho wivos
of Gonoral voa Maekenson, who is loading the Bultr-Turoo Gar ruw fefooa .on tho
Peerudia -front in Rumania, and Gonopwl yen KtUkoniwyR, former oMof V otasT.
Mrs. Qoraro wife or tho Amorican Ambassador to fsormaMy, is (he o
loan woman wfco has reeotvod this ltoner,
oiUy other Amor-
WILSON'S CONDITION WORRIltg HXg PHYSICIAN
WAWUroW;'Nov. U,-Prattmt Wo's sil swTsUso. in avure
wotry to . . Owry t, amnrnt. Tho oMtst m Mr. wi
MtMt cctef Ub Aranfovy footbaU sswao at Now Y4t Itorsjislksr U. fae
At) 0mwm tWMlna ' 1 1 1 tor Mm. Ojt && Um if
mmmj atm-y i r wpiM,fii
O. (KoS SOJBBBBBBBBJBSBBBBBSOSSSSOSBBMOW-' J." .?Ib - 7 "
Imryr , . Ai3sr.-iim
NIGHT
EXTRA
PIIIC05 OX& CUNT
NO CLUE TO MAN
WHO STOLE CHILD
FR0M.0RPHANAGE
Kidnapper of Ten-Year-Old
Girl Didn't Leave Trace,
Police Say
STEPFATHER SUSPECTED
Inmates Say Little One Rustfed
Into Visitor's Arms and
Was Taken Away
The kidnapping of eleven-year-bld Jennie
Malale, a pretty Inmate of the Gonaaga,
Memorial Home, an orphanage, at German
town avenue and Boysr street, remains a
mystery. The police of the Germantown
station and sisters of that Institution Wet
unable to explain why the child should have
been stolen and taken down a flre-eaeape
last night. Not a trace haa been found of
the kidnapper or of the child.
Several points were brought to light to
day as an aftermath to the excitement In
tho Institution last night
First, the kidnapping was done by a ma
who said he was the child's stepfather an
had called to see her many times In the
last few years, although he never gave
either hla name or address.
Second, the deed was planned with great
care, the man having hid In the house for
several hours after he 'had called""to see
11104 child yesterday afternoon.
Third, the chltd herself eIdently knew
that she was to be taken away unexpectedly
and rushed Into tho man's arms as he'
grabtd her from a room on the second
floor last night. lie had given her pre,
enti many times, and she always appeared
to be very fond of Ylm. '
SISTEIIS PUZZLED
Sisters at the orphanage, still pale, from
the stirring events of last night, said today
that the man had called yesterday after
noon and Informed them that fie Intended
to take the child away -"for good" neA'''
week. This would hae been feasible, they
said, had the man been able to show creden
tials as to hs respectability and ability to
support the child. y
It Is believed that the,man would have
found difficulty1 In securing the proper cre
dentials ana4eclded'Qn the daring course
of kldnapptng'the- chljdj;
ThevkWnsppgjoourred Just before tho
children were, about o sjo to bed. More,
vtban ndosen, of. thejwjw.rtn'iiiirlho,
nursery while' the slaters were at dinner.
rwljen'one'ohild.yelled:', ."-" i
"Look at thpmuVs shadow on the flre
escap.p "
At the same instant a man's headapr
peared In the window. The man cautioned
them to keen quiet arid asked forJennte
He grabbed one child by mistake, bjA seeing
Jennie seated on a bench, called to her and
'let -the other child go. . t ,
CHILDREN FRIGHTENED
The children were frightened. All ex'eept
Jennie, who rushed into the man's arme,
was lifted out on the nre-eecape and
whisked away In Jhe nlsbt before her com
'panlons cou)d make an outcry. The win
dow la on the second floor, but the kid
naper easily made his was down the fire
etcape with the child In his arms.
According to Helen Dumphy, fourteen
years old, one of the child's friends, the
man wore a checkered cap and a peculiar
gray suit. He had a heavy dark mustache
and appeared to be a foreigner, probably -'
an Italian. Hla front teeth appeared to be
heavily niled with gold. This description
also was given by several slaters, who at
once notified the Germantown police.. Dis
trict Detectives McFarland'and Corry have
been assigned to the case.
CAME TO HOME IN 1913
The Malale child came to the orphanage
In 191J from Sti VlriJftit's Home, at Twen.
ticth and Itace streets. She was brought
from St. Vincent's, one sister said, because
a man it ho said he was her stepfather
bothered her too much. They believe the'. ,
kidnaper of last night has been goln-'iS
to see the chld for sometime. She.aiwaysr
appeared to be ery,fond of hinv He never
gave his name or address, even when 'he
called at the'Gonsaga Horn, but1 the oh4l4" '
seemed to know hlim and the sisters had
no reason to be suspicious. The child, for
merly was in an' asylum in'Norrletowa,
GAVE CANDV TO CHILD
Sisters at the orphanage believe the kid
napper hid in the building. Visiting hours
are from 2 o'clock )511 4:10 In the .after-,
noon. The man rushed up tho walk about
4)10 and asked if he was too late. He
talked to Jennie for a few minutes, gave
her candy and held her In hla arms before
leaving. One of the children aoM she saw
him whisper to her, and It la believed (hat
he told her to be ready when ho eame tor
her last night, A slater was In tho room
at the time, but evidently the mn was
able to whisper to the chUd wtthmt at
tracting the slater's notice.
It la belleed that he remained in J.he In-,
stltutlon Instead of leaving' rssUWUy after.
noon.' He probably went to the. top floor
unu ucMJtimvt iho nrv--woM wsh ae KOV
that the children wooM he alone. ' t
A pane of glass in. tho nursery V-ooss,
from which the child was-atotea had hott
cut out early in the tvesiH;, The hots la
tho window is largo ehoMoli for a asaa'a
body to poos through, hat ft had not how
noticed until after the kldoAOtasv
Debt was ostrf4 by otMKfistor today
aa to .whether the sb wfco MsTnassjill tho
cMM was the aawe who.aallsd.e see hor
yesterday afternoon,' H apiy hov-hH
confederate', she aoM. .. . if
JwU,wUta boauUfiil dk eyes mt vlv
Hum nwaw, ww mm so ivssxstemw-.
Biircnn an w mv --
NAD ViaiTOltSJ AT A VIWTjoHH
M9 w ?' 1 saw"" y W-o,w flnVP P
10 to oNeaVipia. m amt m
i two mm asp, mtm m
return! to tM her sIoao sj
Um fthostt
Jn 111. tho ohlld waa sent
UosaaHomo R snm sate) thai Ii
aosjto few tnaulrtem tt hay. are ssstda
the paronu uf oMM hroufftt ttwt.
Jennie a tnn issjs aai wu owns. 1
tout Vim-eat HO, Hit P I
about toe HiOOp-j
Uey wuiiW tsho
bar trgas,!
r? si
.
