THE WEATHER FORECAST. .
Probably rain to-day and to-morrow j
not much change in temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 53; lowest, 41.
Detailed weather, moll and marine raporta on page n.
IT SHINES FOPs. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 74.
4-
NEW YORK, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1910.-
ONE CENT
In (irester New York. I Elsewhere
.Terser 'lly and Newark. I TWO t'KNT.
CopyrlpM, 1916, by thn Hun Printing nnd Publishing Xs jocffltloii.
S$UVL
ROFRANO'S JURY
SETS HIM FREE
AFTER 22 HOURS
Verdict of Acquittal Is e
ecived Calmly by the
Defendant.
T1IK JIAYOlt KXTKNDS
111S I'OXOKATULATIOXS
Remarkable Demonstration
Follows the Acquitted
.Man's Return Home.
FLAtiS ARK UXWRLKD
AXI) FliOWKHS SKXT
"M il ! ill 1 ittlotnll I iiwvul'
Jl.llUU MttletOU, LUtt.U'l
for Defence, Cheered by
Street Crowds.
,,,,,, , , , . i
M.ke liufrar.il I- bad; mining his
own people. He wus ncnultted of the
murder of Michael Ciulnmrl nt 1:50
oc'.nk yesterday nfternnon, nnd front
then till late nt night he was the
icntre of a remarkable reception.
ile w.ilked from the doorway of the
gloomy Criminal Courts Hitltdlng to
l. ir.ctM hv the rhrrn ,,f n thousand
tiii..itli:zers gathered behind the
police lines; his progress home, past
the hl.ili tenements tilled with people
of bis own race, was a triumphal pto
( yon. nnd then in his house nt 11
o. r street he greeted his neighbors
ith iXtendcd arms and smites and
c:vs if "Gruzlo. si. si, molte grnzie;
till be sw
ayeil on Ills feet with fatigue,
mi beh. nd the one in which Ho-
The room
fr.ino stood, the centre of a. clieti lug,
crlng throng, was literally filled with
iluuers. All the evening they came, big
bunches of crysunthemuins on the arm
of ouhk girls, boxes of roses with
friends' congratulations to Itofrano and
his wife, the quiet, gray eyed little
woman who has stood by him courage'
ously In the days of his trial. She Is
iruii un.i .,ioi.t mi,, nimn.i .ia..n.i
H
for Joy.
.Ueiuae From the Maiir.
Telegrams fiouretl In so fast that Jim
my Itofrano, Mike's brother, only looked
at the signatures a he tore them open;
the telephone was Jangling Incessantly,
and then came one message that pleased
Itofrano more than all the others. It
wai from Mayor Mltchel, who appointed
him Deputy Street Cleaning Commis
sioner, and was received by Dr. Henry
Moikow-ltz, chairman of the Municipal
Cull Service Commission.
'Tell Mr. Itofrano," said the Mayor,
"i!iat 1 am very glad he has been ac
q, i tied,"
lhe message was cone.xcd to Itofrano
i .il he bed torn himself away from the
I long, Then with all the earnestness
of which he Is capable he owed he
w uld go further than the verdict of the
Jj. and absolutely clear his reputation
In the e)es of his people.
Itofrano had never doubted the result
it the trial, and when he stood nt the
lt.v facing the Jurj In the final moment
hr- seemed to have as sure n grip on him
If as any man In the room. As the
Lours went on the Jury was out twenty
two hours some of his friends began to
fear that the best they could hope for
whs a disagreement. When the Jury late
ca.ur.lay night came In lo ask ''i''&V n. which 'h 11
a"""'?,", " "e?,.0. a?",":'., UJKr" n "The best'. In fact ,he only., life Insur-
ner Ilofrano'R frleuus nimosi gave up.
bojie. After the Jury was locked up In
ine eariy nours oi yesieruuy iiioiiuhb me
Kile knot!, of men who had gathered In
ine street outside went away feeling that)
ll was all up with Mike. ,
llUngreenient Inferred. i
This Impression deepened as the day
wiie on after the Jury had gone out to
breakfast and hnd returned apparently
ns far from agreement as ever. The
I i hall of the bull, ling began to All up
.main. Martin Littleton, Itofrano's coun
ai rived, nnd with him ciime Mis.
L tlletnn, who bus been nn ulmost con
stant attendant during the trial, then
Jutlte Weeks nnd Assistant District At
torney Ilrothers mid his stuff.
Itofrano waited in the Tombs, nnd up
stairs In the Sheriff's room his wife and
mother waited unxlously. Twice when
Hi Jury had come In Saturday for In
Uruitlnns and to liijve evidence read the
wife and mother had been In the court
Outside ti e b Uldlng the crow 1 began rimless eyeglasses-may at times during
to Z he , nde'r Te ' wtValnWfluw'c. the Interview have d, I theor.e. or
cf the police, Two big uniformed men direct sta ements of seeming ex rava
KUKrde, the door of the building, nnd -Banco us lie waited I up and I down ner
Th. was allowed to enter without show- vous'y putt ng Innumerable cigarettes.
I is i redentialH. I.'pstnlrs two more stood 1 Nevertheless the Interviewer could not
si the court room door nnd othere were overlook the fact that Oravce actually
.altered about the corridors. , had got Into his hands during the past
lieteitlvcs were everywhere, there i few days not only letters from Germany
were forty of them In the building, nnd that had been cleverly smuggled across
tn one from District Attorney Swnnn to under the noses of the British censors
the . leik of the court went from the but also correspondence of a Journalistic
b'lildlng without a detective nt his elbow, 1 nature.
They weic taking no clinncea with the And It was remembered that Oraves,
hdtreilj that have been st rred by mis .
"ll Al Oalmarl. brother of the mur
(I'lcl man, who has been the chief aid of
th piostcution, stalked about the halls
with a detective always at his side.
A lout I :3 P. M. came a knock on the
Jury room door and an attendant hurried
In to tell Jubtlce Weeks that the Jury
had arrived ut a verdict. The room
nulckly filled, mostly with detectives. Mr.
Littleton took his seat looking worn out
and biting nervously at his lip. The Jury
fll'd in, tired and with no sign of what
their verdict was to bo, mid then there
was a little wait until Uofrano walked
In and stood at the bar. his hands
ilasped behind his back. He stood very
Mralght und stared Intently at the Jury
men, tendering the Vrrdlet.
Clerk Penny asked the usual prellml
nary questions and then Inquired;
"What Is your verdict, guilty or not
guiiiyr'
"Not guilty," answered Foreman New
hall. Ilnf now merely opened his mouth a
little and then closed It tightly. Thar
Centlnaed on fourth P$.
"DR." GRAVES ACCUSES
BERNSTORFF; LETTERS
CONFISCATED HURT U. S.
Self-styled Spy. Here From
Washington, Explains Ar
rest for Extortion.
COUNTESS'S NAME CLEAR
Ho Charjres Ambassador by
I. -Boat Tips Mndfl Millions
in Wall Street.
"Ur." Knrl AiniBanrd araves, the self
styled International spy arrested nt
Washington. V. C, last Saturday on a
charge of trying to extort 13,000 from
i Countess von HernstorfT by threat to
, publish Intercepted letters addressed to
' the Countess, vnme back to Manhattan
, yesterday bubbling over with an Inter-
'ttnR- ',,hou"h ""'"pted, .tory
tilled with serious attacks upon the!
Ootman Ambassador, 1'rlnce Hatzfeldt,
couni,cllor ,0 th acrman Kmbassy,
,nd othera lntrurnntalinGruvrr.'aar-
rest.
The code letters from Germany ad
dressed to Countess von llernstorff.
which (Jruves hud obtained by methods
j he will not disclose, contained, he told
tne newspaper men Here yesterday,
..(larnna,jl(.. paI,,K-ph ,n )p nfn'ne
that tho "damnable" parts of the let-
ters were Injurious to the United
S1:.t'!'-.
The tellers ,1 it tint rnnl.iln nn. nnri
reflecting In any way upon Counters von ;
Hernstorff or any other woman, said1
Graves, hut they were tilled with In- '
formation which might be used to ad-1
vantage In Wall Street by any one hav-
nn ""' knowledge of contemplated
German activities.
fnmr HrmnrUntile Acoaantlon.
Also In the letters. Graves maintains,
was Information of serious omen to this
Government, which is now in the posses
sion of the Department of Justice at
W.lmlillirlnn In Hie fnrm nt tihnfnffrnnha i
of the letters, which Graves said ester-
day he was Instrumental In suppl Ing to
llie Department.
Count von llernstorff and his close I
friends made and are making "millions !
In Wall Street," O raven charged yester
day, by capitalizing the embassy's ad
vance knowledge of the f-53's activi
ties here anil other Oerman military
operations. Secret photographing by the
. . .. . . .
me ""man ouici.is o. .ne pr vaie
cot respotideiico of I'resUleiit Wilson; the
payment or JJO.ouo by the Oerman lim
bnssy to get these photographs of the
President's letters and storing the pic
tuies In the nults of the Oerman Km
hasty at Washington; the forging of the
signature of Secretary llryan and other
American officials to obtain false pass
pcrts for Oerman cltliens these were
but some of the accusations against
Count von nernstorfT and his embassy
which Uravcs made freel jesterday af
ternoon In his npartments at 63 West
Sixty-ninth street.
Itobbers, said Craves, hail entered Ills
Manhattan apartments some time after
midnight yesterday morning, hail tossed
his things topsy turvy, but hail stolen
only translations of Oeriiiuu letters he
had decoded and simitar paper'.
Necrrt Xert It-r Man (iiinrtlcd Mini.
Through fear of entering his apart
ments alone when he got back from
Washington to Manhattan lesterday
forenoon he had asked and obtained ,
Irom the Federal authorities at wasn
iiigton a secret service man to accom
pany him If to his rooms here when
he first opei.etl the padlocked door.
Two mysterious men, poking as tie-
tectlves, tried to get Into hi" Sixty-fifth
stteet quartern about IL' ;.10 o'clock yes-
teiday morning, but had had the street ;
door slammed In their faces, said j
Orave.i. by the woman who runs the
, h.,. , .,,.. .veinim..!
'0rnv.,, w,n believes that his life never I
wnH (n jnKer Hn great as It Is at the
.,,.,,,,.. n,,,,, H t1(. fct that Oermany
knnw8 t)ml jf , ir now there
uuuld lie an Investigation of the murder
which would reveal everything In tills
cune which the Oerman Kmbassy wishes
to conceal.
"Hut you walk the strectR freely, don't
you?" Oravrs was asked.
.-nf ,iiirkewliv- nnt lie snswered
If they want to get me. all they have '
to do Is to throw a bomb through that
big front window there."
The wide window of Oraves's ground
floor rooms faces the sidewalk ut the
street level. The reporter's chair was
between the International spy nnd the
window. Following a moment of mental
debate, however, It was decided to keep
right on Interviewing tho Interesting Dr.
Craves until he had said all his say.
Outwitted llrltlsh Censorship.
fl raves of medium heltht. perhaps in
aH almost any mriuoer o a. ccnmin ru
elal club of college, men In Oramercy
Park will hear witness, early In the
spring of 1914 predicted In an addrti
to the club tint "the Crown Prince of
Austria Is about to be assassinated, the
great European war will be an out
growth of the assassination and before
we are far into the coming August
(1914) the wr In Europe will havo
been begun."
"Diplomats Maklnar Fortunes.
"Count von Hernstorff and his frlend.i
have mnde millions of dollars In Wall
Street owing to their advance knowledge
of certain given military operations, by
the Oermans," began Oravea as a sort
of preliminary explanation of his own
theory that ho was "Justified In using
the same methods or ethical code used
by the Oerman Embassy In this coun
try" as tho Oerman oftlclale, according
to Graves, put -Into practlco secretly In
their American deallnge.
"Twenty-four hours or more bofore
the Uerman U-5J came Into Newport,"
Graves went on, "Count von DernBtorff
CoaflMMfl it Vacant! Pt-
I Jk j
lp,. i
3 ,im
il V - v r s p-i A I
&JjiF
)tilaflH
- :
Tf Ji
1"7
' ?- MI
7idBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBM KSSr3at
r.-'X;,
1
Karl Armgaard Graves.
WOOLWORTH BUTLER
LOCKED UP FOR THEFT
Fire Wllifll Destroyed $200,
'
.UailSIOII I I'ai'CII tO
Suspect's Room.
Joseph Dow den, 21 c;n s old, a butler
employed iy Frank W. Woolworth at
his Oien Cove country home, which was
burned last Friday, nnd then nt 930
Fifth avenue, was locked up at Tollre
Headquarters, yesterday by Detectives
Skelly and lonard of the Third branch
buienu and a Hums detective charged
Willi attempted grand larceny.
He was accused by Mlis Frances Hill
the Woolworth housekeeper, of to Ing to
steal Jewelry and wearing apparel
valued at $500 belonging to Mr. Wool-,
worth which, she said, were found In a
valise In the butler's room, The prisoner
made a geiictui denbil, Dotwlcn got his
Job about two weeks ago. lie sol,! ie
onre worked for Fredi rlel: Vanderbllt.
One of the other butlers says that
when he went Into a p.uitrv on Satur
day he saw Povvden standing In front
of two open safes, tine contained a
$15,000 gold service set and the othtjr a
$12,000 silver set vice. The butler nkd
bow the safes happened to be opened
nnd Powden, he sa. laughingly de.
c-lared lie
once woiaetl for a safe com
pany."
Later JIIss 111,1 wos auiisen ny the
orv.-inl not to permit Donden to leave
m1(, house with a valise and a search was
,a,0 f hl room.
.
WHY "TIMES" RAISED PRICE,
Ilnrnisn opt li Tells nf Increased
Cost nf I'rodnetloii.
SicM Cablt HtiMitet. lo Tiir Si from Ur
I untlon timr
Los-poN, Nov. 12 Tin- Hint an -
nounces to-dn that It has Increased its
prhc to three cents a copy In the fol-
lowing terms:
"Itather more than a hundred yeats
ago, on the morrow of Waterloo. It be -
ame necessaiy to Inrre.ise the price of
,10 Tlmr tro sixpence halfpenny
in
sevenpeme. The present management itepmres 111 a sum-iiiem m m.- in..- ......
of the 7'liiirs. having "-uu-fully examined there should be nny exposure of his po
the facts, the outlook and the cost ofilltlcal tieachery and that of his machine
production has come to the conclusion ut n time 'when all loyal supporters of
that it Is necessary to Increase the price j Mr. Hughes In California are straining
. I I.. ..lnlili, n.nl ullnrflllll-
from one penny to one penny nanpenny.
The change takes effect Monday, No
vember 20,
"The net sale of the Times exceeds
200,000 roples n day. The great Increase
In the cost of production, especially In
the cost of paper, has brought a loss on
circulation of about 1.000 ($5,000) a
week. The increase In the price of the
paper on which the TIiiks Is printed
since the beginning of the war lias cost
an additional 70,uiio ($330,000) per an
num. The management Is therefore
faced with a position where it must
either reduce the alze and eliminate some
of the hlslorlc.il features or maintain the
Times as It Is and Increase the price.
The latter step bus been decided upon.
Papers nold for Icsm than a penny must
soon still further restrict their size or
follow the example nf the Times."
2 BOYS CARRIED OFF IN MOTOR.
Driver Let Curious Youngsters Off
!tn Ml lee From Home.
Peckbkili., Nov, 12. Thomas Cassell,
3 years old, nnd Joeph Palmer, 7, both
of Yonkers, never had had an automo
bile ride until this morning. When they
saw a machine standing in the street
they climbed In, prompted by cuiloKlty,
The driver put on the power und the
lads were In Pceksklll, twenty-five miles
away, when they Induced him to stop
and let them out,
Tom and .loo think the world Is a
big old place and that the automobile
Is a wonderful Invention, but they were
in tears when Policeman Zellph found
them wandering about Pceksklll. They
didn't know whut hud become of tho
chauffeur and his car. Their parents
In Yonkers were asked to rnmo here
after the boys. Thomas lives at 2R1
Yonkers avenue and Joseph at 263 Ash
burton avenue.
PINKIItRHT IIOTKI.H AND (101. F LINKS
now open, laq.tfetbosrd Air Mne.llll Uw,
Adv.
i JOHNSON BALKED AT
MEETING MR. HUGHES
Now Version of Why Candi
date nnd Governor Did Not.
(let Together.
WILUOX SEES NO FH.U I)
Congratulatory Telegram to
Wilson Will Follow Official
Count of California Vote.
While Charles K. Hughes and William
It. Willcox, Republican national ehalr-1
man, continued to maintain yesterday
that the election would not be determined J
finally until the California vole Is oil!-
dully tabulated, a prominent member of
the Hughes staff threw a new light on 1
the bitter factional fight In the Pacific
coast State by asserting Gov. Hiram
I Johnson refused to meet Mr. Hughes
when the latter was campaigning In
California, I
When the tinoRlclal returns from Call-
, fornla showed that President Wilson had
.Mini-ii me aime inc. report was cir
culated that Mr. Hughrs lost It because,
lie Ignored Oov. Johnson while In San
rrnnenco and refused to see him.
"Hughes did not refile to greet Oov. I
Johnson Whll lift wuu In Mian lrnlBn " I
i I the Hughes staff member said yesterday,
i 1 "It was the other way around, A mes
sage was sent to Oov. Johnson that Mr.
i i Hughes desired to meet him. hut Johnson
did not respond. I know that Is so be
catifc I wus there at the time."
Factional Fight Cost Election.
Whether Oov. Johnson knlfeil" llin
Itepubllcan candidate or whether It was '
because of the attitude taken by Crocker
and tveesllng, the Kcpubllcan leaders of
I California. It wus agreed unanimously in ,
Itepubllcan circles yesterday that the fac
tional fight In that State cost the Itrniib-'
Ilcau ticket the election. (Jov. Johnson, the i
Progressive leader of the State and the
most powerful political factor in Califor
nia, was opposed bitterly to Crocker and 1
i tvrcsiuiK. mm wnue oom ine jnnnson
(and Crocker-Keesllng forces were sup-,
posed to be united on the Itepubllcan
ivecsimg, and wlille both the Johnson
Presidential candidate, the partisans of
both factions took sides, according to I
the Republican leaders here, with the'
result Out the tepubllcan-Progrcssi e !
ote was divided. ,
Chairman Willcox spent several hours
eslcrday with Mr. Hughes at the ilotel
Astor, and nt the conclusion of the con
ference the chairman said :
"We have not changed our position
and do not Intend to until the official
count Is taken In California. The of-1
flclal count begins In that State tn-mor-'
I row, nnd when It Is announced we will
j abide by the result."
1 rnnamfalatloni Withheld.
"Will Mr. Hughes wait until the of
ficial count before sending a telegram of
congratulation lo the President?" the
chairman was asked.
"I think such a telegram should be
withheld until the official count is made
Klimn- ',c repuen,
""" '01' '"tend to ask for a recount If
,,u' n,ml "gures glo(the State to the
President?" be was asked,
"-No- 1 wouldn t say that. All we want
I? the ofllrlnl tabulation.'
"Have jou received any evidence of
fraud In the California vote?"
"No, we have no evidence, but we have
leiehed a number of complaints."
Mr Hughes spent esterduy In se
clusion with bis family and his only
I caller In addition to Mr. Willcox was
Charles II. Sberrlll. who managed the
Hughes parade on November 4, As fari
'ns could be learned the only plans Mr.
Hughes has made call for a month's
lest, probably at some winter resort In I
this country or possioiy iiermuua.
Chairman Willcox will remain nt bis
olflce In the Itepubllrnn headquarters I
the only office not dismantled until the ,
final count In California lias been ails'
nounced. He Intends to take a long rest 1
after the final result is known, which
will nrnhablv lie within a week. I
GEN. OTIS REPLIES.
Itefules Oov, Johnson's "liicuim"
I for "Treacher) " lit Hughe.
, (;,n, Harrison Gray Otis of the Los
.Illeiea TtmtB telegraphs the following
j t,8 morning to Tun Sl'N .
.- condense an urtlrle in this morn-
1 R.H 7-fnies which completely refutes the
: statements and excuses of Oov. Johnson
lelallve to his treachery to Mr Hughes-
"The hit bird nutters, uov. jonn-nn
, every nervo 10
hi. interests.' It Is not of record, how
ever that the nerves of Oov. Johnson
or any of his payroll patriots were
strained in such service until the ballots
hud all been cast und California carried
for President Wilson,
"It Is a ridiculously weak defence to
allege that the defeat of Mr. Hughes Is
due to the conduct of the stalwarts re
actionaries, the Governor calls them
when the whule Itepubllcan machinery
of the StHte was In the hands of the
Progressives. Oov. Johnson, a regis
tered Progressive, reoelved the ltepubll
cna nomination for thu Culled Htutes
Senate,
"Chester Rowell, a registered Progres.
slve, was made chairman of the He
publican State central committee. Kvery
member of Hint committee was hand
picked by Gov. Johnson. The Itepubll
can National Committee turned over
thousands of dollars to the State cen
tral committee to be expended In the In
terests of Mr. Hughes.
"None of the political opponents of
Gov. Johnson were permitted to have the
slightest voice in the conduct of the ne
1 publican campaign In California. They
uccrpted tills numiiiaiion 111 silence,
holding that the triumph of the Repub
lican cause meant more than all else,
"Gov. Johnson and his political ma
chine received everything that the He
publican party hud tn give, In return
they treacherously betrayed Mr. Hughes,
Hailed their support rnr votes to per
I petuute their control over the Statu
1 flniinces by securing a majority In the
' State Legislature, and now that their
, treachery lias been exposed to tho world
I " Br" .."". .
1 f101 permitted to have any
they are dying that those who were
active pa 1 1
In the campaign, but whose loyally In
Mr, Hughes bus never been questioned,
were responsible for his ilcfeitt.
"They uro convicted without extenu
ating circumstances by the vote cast In
the general election. Gov. Johnson re
lelvcd lhe whole of his vote for Governor
III 1914 plus practically the whole of
Continued on fourth Pop.
GERMANS TRY AGAIN
FOR AIR MASTERY
First Serious Attempt on the
British Front Itesults in
Thrilling Duels.
SEVKX SENT TO EARTH
British Fliers Tliinge Down
ward to Engage Foe at
Height of 5,000 Feet.
;ifcm table Vetfiatch to Tiir Six com the
t.onttun Tlmr,
London Nov. 12. The Tfinr lias re
ceived the following despatch from ll
special correspondent with the armies In
Prance :
"The Herman airmen have grown
bolder. They are making a more serious
attempt to dispute the mastery of the t
air with u. This winter probably will
see some bitter fighting,
"Air fighting now Is much closer and
more savage than ever II has been be-,
fore. The Importance of air mastery .
has been more clearly demonstrated.
The Individual righting and the number
killed have Immensely Increased with
greater speed of machines and greater
cleverness in handling them.
A flrenthlrss Duel.
"The old leisurely combats uro tio
more.' Now it Is a headlong plunge, a
single shut, u dip, n swerve, another
shot, a loop, a single shot again, a duel i
swifter, more breathless, more retkleti
than any fighting that ever was before!
on earth or sea.
"One of the chief evidences of the new
actlvlty has been a great aerial battle "ugh J. McOowan. the Indianapolis Mufr n ln(, n(.ton f the lllm drama ' Onue to drivo Von Mac-kensen's llul
In which seventy aliplanes were engaged 1 street car magnate, was killed In an au-, )n w)l!ch Mar). ndiford ond her com-' gars nnd Turk n the DohrudJ.t nearer
tloned. 1,1 h iotVpK be "ve been engaged Ji-re for some the Constanza-Cetnavoda railroad, on
o'clock In the morning of Thursday over.
the Oerman lines in the direction of
VauW-Vaucourt, northeast of llspaume.
"Olir airplanes were bound thither on '
a bombing expedition. With the fight-
Ing machines and the scouts they made i
a fleet of thirty
Just before reaching
hFf" r'ti!?"" -"Amr
Vaulx-Vaurourt
squadron of thirty-six to forty airplanes.
"We attacked quickly. Some of our
machines went flying at a higher level
than the enemy nnd they plunged head
long to Join the general engagement. It
was fought at an average height of
6,000 feet.
I.".e.. ---
"Of the melee that followed It Is lm-
possible to get a coherent account. No ,
man hud time for thought of anything
except the enemy machines, with which I
they were successfully engaged for
twenty minute. I
"There raged In the clouds such a ,
battle as the world bad nexcr seen. In
the Inextricable tangle of single combats
between darting nnd swirling machines
the air was tilled with the roar of nro- I
nellers and the clatter of guns
"Four of our machines were lost,
machines were lost,
cend on Oer-
...... 1....I1..., tIia .v.mv ii..,..lu vlnil
westerly wind
limn iriiiu-ij .nvri.v.,. . .j
kept drifting tho battle further and
fnrth.r .v.i. th,. ,-i.mv1, line- mfir. nnrl
landing In our lines.
"Of the enemy we know- that six ma
chines were sent to earth. Three are
known to have crashed when they fell
and were destroyed, What happened to
the other three beyond that they were
falling, out of control. Is not known. In
another a pilot was recti dead.
fierman l.lnr Ilroken.
"The best evidence of our vlitory
lies III the fact that the whole enemy
formation wan broken and scattered, nnd
that the Oermans fled for safety In all
directions, leaving us In possession of
"e sky. . . .
"Then we went anout-our inisines
and punctually dropped nomns on ine
stores and ammunition depots at Vaulx
Vaucourt, nnd cnuie home, proudly fly
ing in regular formation. No Oerman
was daring enough to Interfere.
"A westerly wind blows here three
uuarters of the enr. and even when
the east wind blew It stldom was good
weather, so practically every battle has
oeeii rougiii .111 1 oi.. i.sain-1 ,iwi
no disabled machine of ours can beat
home, whllo thu enemy's nre nlwajs
blown toward his own territory."
' .....
VAIilil WAK 1U UtUKMAiS 1
llrltlsh
ml French Fliers llrdD
Tom of llomhs on Factories.
LoNiioN, Nov. 12. llrltlsh and French
air squadrons have carried the war to
Germany nanln, llrltlsh airplanes
dropped bombs Friday morning on the
steel works at Volklngen, In the Ilhlne
province northwest of saartiriicken, nnn
French nlrplanes repented the attack
last night. The combined weight of
the lioml dropped was upward of five
tons.
The llrltlsh raid was made by seven
teen naval airplanes, which dropped two
tons of projectiles. Their observers saw
serious damage done to buildings of the
steel works. Meantime, some of the
macmnrs win- iikhuiik i.in iui, " -
planes, which arose to defend the works,
bringing ilown inrec 01 mem, 1
Frrm-h llnir Their Tnrn.
Then the French had their lum, Klglit
French mnclilnes flew over Volklngen be -
tween 8 nnd 9 o'clo-k Inst night and
dropped three tons of projectiles
As"
they exploded the French nit men saw
several fires start, All the French air -
men returned safel,
The German official account of the
raid says'
Enemy nlrpluneB on Friday after-
noon attacked Industrial works In Haar
region, dropping bombs on the villages
of Volklngen, Wehrden and Forbach
killing three Inhabitant and wound
ing two slightly, two seriously. No
military damage was Inflicted. Tho
material damage was small,
A further French statement of air
raids follows ;
During the night of November 10.
11 our squadrons rained projectiles on
tho stations of Ham, SI. Qiicntln,
Tet Rider nud Neslc. In the Soinnio
region, nud the ulrdrnmo ut Drruze,
the blast furnaces of Dumsbach, thn
airplane sheds of Frescatl (near
Metz) nud the blast furnaces of Ha
gondange (north of Metz). These op.
erations caused great damage ami
several explosions and flics were ob
served. French Tow 11 llonibardril,
1 iinr.,,,,,. 1.1 mim... ,iiii-ii,.r 11 ..1.1.,
nf November 10-11 bombarded several
French towns. Nancy nnd Luncvlllo
received projectiles which caused
damage or casualties, Th". open town
Continued on Third I'age.
moie. Of the airplane; that came home ZriylZ music In New York. , having tiouble at the stern, The deck I i,"" V,wan! V'. , om"".','"'.'' T"e
one lirougut a uean onserver ami two i uppni una uueu hi dangerous nneies us uu.
others wUh wounded pilots had dim. . ,,,!., he Kddie persisted In forcing Its nno !':""''" n" fr as tlie Topal-Inaiuesme-
T .1,. .l rri'T r)R7Jn mir A rj In ll .ml h. I,,., i... ...rt.i Ivaranaouf line." Tie nccunatlnn nf
lUll.t Ill Ul. H llllh "tllt, nil.. ul.rf. A . . U u u.r. . ..v-'.,." ... ........ ,1,1 .i-r,. iili .(.'III ll llHI
FOODLESS 50 HOURS, 3 MEN
TAKE TUG ACROSS ATLANTIC
Remarkable Feat by Mate,
Vigilant After Others
Britain Bound
London, Nov. 2 (lly Mall). One of
the most extraordinary o.igc ever
made across tho Atlantic has Just been
completed by the Vigilant, a little Amer
ican tii! belonging to New York and
bound from St. John's, Newfoundland,
for Cardiff. Two days out from St.
John's, which she left a week ago lust
Sunday, the Vigilant experienced terrific
weather, nnd on the fifth day she sent
SOS calls, the captain fearing slit
would founder. The Holland-America
liner Itndam picked up the signals and
proceeded to her assistance.
The captain nnd twelve of the tug's
crew were taken off by the Ityndnm,
which was bound for llotterdam. but
thret men refused to leae. They were
"lie second mate, Hubert Ferguson, u
Scot ; the third engineer, Thomas Walsh,
MISS M'GOWAN DIES jPICKFORD REEL SHIP
IN RACING CAR UPSETiIN REAL SHIP WRECK
Daughter of Indianapolis Trac
tion Magnate IMuned I'nder
It Yale Men Hurt.
New Haves'. Conn.. Nov. II. Mlsai
' Marjorle McOowan, duushter of the late I
,,er frlrnd MM Cathailne Mayer, also
connected with a prominent Indianapolis
family. a seriously Injured and Is In
ltnsnll.il lir. .Inm, Cnnlnn Mnrdnek
f Lafayette. Ind.. who wna driving the
car. Is In the same hospital with Internal
Injuries and a broken thigh, where lie Is , ocean's floor only n few feet beneath In
'''''' 'he police for the Coroner-si,,.. , , , ,,, , ttTm, flni,
Inquest. Ills brother. Alexander, escaped
with minor Injuries. I go down prematurely. j '"" ixu-en at-
The Murdocks. both Vale freshmen.1 Thlt morning Mary. In her role of tacks and counter attacks were made
had a new Packard racing car which i ,,, (lnu?er f tht. scotch fl'herman. , yesterday. Important mountain peaks.
they hnd bought the day before. It was , , ,
built for Italph de Pulma. The oung.went a'-oard the I-.ddln to go throiigh'one of them across the l-irdcr In
women hail been stopping nt the niack-
New York 'cl. , anil had' come , New
,1,1,,. Ilnl. r.n f-n... 1.1... It. I. u.vaa.
Haven for the Yale-Drown football game.
They went to dinner at the Hotel Taft
with the Murdocks and then started for
New York in tho new car to meet Miss
Mayer's mother at the Dlackstone.
At a bend in the road near Mllford
they sldewlped a light touring car
driven Uy Mrs. K. Rogers of West Haven
Bnd the big racer wus overturned and Its
occupants pinned underneath. There
rm. untn.n It. Mr Itnrprs'n rnr.
i.m ,,n .Mn,t inlurv r-irrnt Mrs Will-1
i.m Artklns nf New Ilaien. who has scaln
fnm Adkins of New Haen. who bus scalp I
wounds. 1
. ir.h J McOowan. i
,irs. iiuvn J Mcwowan. inuinrr i
Miss Marjorle, was notified at
i.. ..... ,i.. . . i . ,....
her iinmii
Three .Motorists Also Flee Leaving
Another Who tiled.
nnsi.T.v. I.. 1, Nov. I?. Daniel Mar
tin, 20 years old, n clerk, living In West
Fifty-fourth street. Marhattan, and uj
.n bnnivii nnlv ns Hrown were killed!
I , , , , ,
speed struck a telegraph pole near Al -
berfson station to-day Three other
joung men who were in the car drove
away In the damaged motor and are
being sought by the police.
I Three men with torn clothes stag-
cored Into the home of (leorge rcasimnii,
I -
h resident of Iloslvn, ubout 1ft o'clock i"" mn provisional govern-I " uiweiern ironi
Oils mornhur nnd told him thev had m"nl' P'vided they tlrst ielan from ; ItU'dans nnd lttimaniuns launched .1
n in an lc " ?nt In w hich one mat! the t ..! service ' jor es of ;s of fle.ve Int. nslty. w hlch
wis killed nnd another Intured Mr I'.Tt ' Major Cheroulls ami Col. Kontotatos of rP"1,e" the capturing of four moiui
Hn t . lenhoned f, rArs old ng ,n 1 Qeen Sophie's own teglme,. have tain peaks several smaller heights and
Inch of Iloslvn While tho iilivslclans , set ted the royal forces to Join the Ven- '-"'"hers .of prisoners. Desldes sf.-ngth.
.r5hLL.i.?r.' lenlng the Itumanlan positions tho
j war ,)(, nmouslne the three young men
,.1nilcil onto the chassis of the car nnd
.
jrnVe ;, leaving the body of the ma
chine where It hud been torn from the
frame by the force of the Impact. One
... ....... ' .. .
of tne men ien ne. inn. w.io was caueo
Drown by the uninjured trio, was dead
iirnieii nv ine iii iniorei rm. was iieiio.
but the other, Paul
..I Mni n wn llvint.
,e Vis-ni'nA. a of
, , r t Vi .'. i Will 1 will 11 1 11 1
He died Inter III the
a compound fracture of the skull without
r.urn I m 1 . ( i-fin anliM 1 uti Ilia iiiiMa I ill 11
Mar, . .(;, , ve,t ttn
notified and hurried to the hospital, ns
did Mre Frank II. Vernillyu, nn aunt,
of 104 West Cloth street, Manhattan.
The body of Hrow-n ' was talten away by
relatives, who refused to give their
names.
The damaged rhaesls was found
several hours later near Plandome, about
four miles from the scene of the acci
dent In the direction of New Yoik. The
cens " nlrV b- on the car 10 Oi ls that , ",r'fnl ,,n"r',a" "" K '"',"
ofTm W. Al!';'"""1 2 0-,'l0t'k tl,N r faro -
j,, nf
R Kast Seventy-second street
I Munl1.1ll.1n. .1 memU.r nf the liMimmi-,.
rm 0f Lee, Illgglusoii & Co., and a dl-
, rector of several large hardware linns
I
TRAIN HITS MOTOR; S DIE
. uh siehmil Parly Hun Dunn by
1
hninlrp Mlntr l.xprrss.
New-Ann. N. Y.. Nov 12. Two nersons
1 were killed and three others badly , occurred three hundred ards west ot
! Injured, one mortally, to-day when tho Carolina station. The locomotive and
automobile In which they were rldlngif""r of the heavily laden cnr pusscd
was struck hy the Kmplre State Kxpress t safely over the broken rail, but the fifth
I at the- Knst Palmyra pump station. car was derailed und the five others fol -
I The dead are Tlielma Jackson, 16, and lowing It weto dragged several hundred
! Diehard Jackson. 14. of Newark, The 'feet.
I Injured are Mulble Clark, 16, back
broken; Gladys Clark, 18, and Harold
Searth. Is. All are Newark High School
students with the exception of Miss
Clark, who Is a student at the Cnlverslly
of Rocliester.
Miss Clark, who was driving, Is said
to have started the car across the tracks
! after a freight train had passed without
stopping to look for another train, She
anil sw-ariu, won was nr.uen oemiie in i .
were only slightly Injured, Her btother,
Malble Clark, ! not expected to re
cover.
SAVING LIGHT IN THEATRES.
A in 11 seme nl Places In Paris Must
Close One .Night a Week.
P.vnis, Nov, 12 An ordinance Issued
bv the Prefect of Police requires that
! Ilientres. music halls and moving plctuie
shows shall be closed at least one day
a week,
This action has been taken In connec
tion with the gas and electricity laving
measure recently adopted,
Engineer and Fireman of
of Crew Had Quit
Boat in Gale.
an Irishman, nnd an American, John
Smith, a fireman.
Taking rontrol of the tug, these three
n.' n. .A Imt. .Ilrrieiilll...
and actually succeeded In bringing her I
within sight of the Irlsh'coast, where i
they were picked up by a llrltlsh patrol I
vessel. Ferguson was locked In the,
wheel hnuso and tho other two In the
engine mom. Tin- terrible weather pre
vented them moving, and they remained
at their itusts for fifty hours, without
food, water or sleep. Sovernl parts of
the tug were smashed III the gale, Includ
ing the shaft of the dynamo In the en
glue room. This caused the tug to be In
total d.irkness by night, and added to
the horrors of the situation.
I The taking off of the erew of the Vigi
lant by the Ityndam was reported by
. cable from Hotterdam,
Old Neptune Interpolates
Dramatic Incident Off
Marbleliead Neck.
r.nn, r,,r.r, vv... n nM
.Wptunr- Interpolated some thrilling deep
time.
An old fishing fcchooner. the Kddle
Miner, has been u.ed to stage some of
the scenes of the new film, all the time I
the IMdle being nt nnchor with the
... .
case the old hulk ehould get tired and
the sceno of running away on the
schooner to be married to the hero ' HurmlnK parties, mid Hussl.ins help
somewhere along the coast. l,,K "fnn"'a further north were also
About four hundred yards off Marble -
head Neck two tugs, which had taken
tin decrepit IMdlc In tow, cast him
wit- urcri'ini i.uuiu 111 low, cast nun ' i.i. ...t ..n. ...1.1. i ,
adrift and got out of the picture. Dlrec I " " '' ;"lv
tor Tourneur noticed that the Hddle 1 'ho J'"'"","' er,e. a ':''"''l" -uo-wus
leaking badly. Decerning alarmed "c J' '". ,,lp """"anlans loat
when the schooner gave a lurch and set-1 1'"0" ,Xw .'"r" an-
tied a little in the water, he started aft . "'AJ' 'Jil? a r!,,oU'
to rescue Mary. The bow went down ',e , a ,otr tho Danube, where
rapidly anil the cold sea water swirled!,'.:.,," h,i,'
I" around tho director's boots. So
I rapidly did tho Kddle settle at the lw
cnmfnillv Jtnlliht th fnremnut fnt u.ifpfv
;- ---7 - -
I i of ciuiK mere uuiii rescueu,
(helm and slid Into the water. Mary ns,
! grasping for soniethlnc to nan on to
'when Tourneur came splashing along
V n ..rP,":'"..a'"
dragged the heroine to sufety.' '
'
GREEK KINO YIELDS AGAIN.
Will Permit .trm, Officer, to .loin
1 e.il,elo. Forces. ,
, v .. .0 t
-om J1"; h,.r , , : ! '' fl"mi
"J jd r L reel- roi-
I , , " ",,,,', , ' , 1
S h " , Iil' ' C: i',;1
, , ""'
ut.,,, i. -,,.,,,, I,.,,. .u.
.it. ui.ui e-. .1. - in,.- .. 11111,11,. it-ii me
evncuatlon of Knteruui. leaving the
town In the bands of a few French
guards. The Government troops have
lecommenced Ihclr wlthdrnw-.il south-
uiiril
rnv,i.,a! aovernment ha. .le.
-
"'"'d t" I1o.it 11 loan which will b placed
among Greeks residing In the Culled
States and other foielgn countries,
"King Peter of Serbia has ui rived at
Athens Incognito."
N. H. EXPRESS WRECKED.
Cnrs ' llllebed lloston-.vr
,
1
. , . rH,t,.- . ..-ii t f.
Nkw Lonpov, Conn, Nov. 12 Six
ears of the Adams Impress train No.
on tin- .New ork. New- Haven and,
i n,,u- 1 "' nt'CKient was attrlliuted to n
. Mary, the fisherman's ttauirhtcr. nim1 statement, which s.lis "our ad-
inoi.eil r.lll, I lie 11,1111 IX one or llio mil n.i.-iii.-in, 111111 i-ikiu iiine. nil
heaviest running d.illy over the Shore inanlan guns nud bnonets ii-pulsed
Line und wns en route from Dostnn to them. The Geinians aiinouncn that tin
New York, nud had left Piovldence at llumanlans ntlaeked eight times also,
I in o'clock. Truffle to New York was and were beaten back
delayed for several hours. , After this deadly struggle, however,
Nn passengers are ounlcil and the ex-
I'less iiicssenseis anil crew escaped death,
1 ns the ten cars were made of steel. The
express had attained Its usuul speed of
Hit.v-llve miles ,n hour, when the wreck
.
T. R, CALLS 1920 A 'PIPE DREAM'
! , .
h,.,,,,, foil Oca I Slgnlfleanee Kt.
. . ... .
I Inched to Mslt tn Perkins.
firsTcn Hay. L. 1.. Vnv 1 n.,. ....
by the political significance attached hv
various politicians nud
newspapers to
, t he visit of George w. Perkins tn
inure Hill yeslerdny, Col. Doosevrlt this
afternoon expressed himself dcllnltelv In
regard to the 11I2D Mntlment I It- eii ir.
icterlzed such talk us "pip,. ,ream"
"I want It clciillv un.ler.lnn.l - ...
said, "th.it no amount of visits or talk Winpoiuug u.is nee 1 m.iiii-h ny 010 leu
' 1.. . . . inn., tint the DlIssl.'inM s:iv 11 Is iiv nir
enti Imllli-e ine In sti.-nL- nf 11.. .......
iioinlliatloii. I ,1n not discuss ,,i,m
ill en ms.
Hinperor 1'rilncls .loseph III,
AMSTKIIIHM. Nov 12 - It Is reported
from Vienna that lliuperor Finnels Jo. ' n the other side of tin- river however
seph has been suffering for several days 1 in tin- Jtu Valle.v, south of Vulcan ami
from a flight attack of catarrh, but Is.Szuiduk passet, where thu Itiunanl.inj
continuing hi customary labor. swept back llio Duvailuns, tlit-y had to
RUMANIA OPENS
GREAT DRIVE ON
NORTHERN LINE
High Peaks Are Stormed
and Teutons Forced Into
Transylvania.
ll' ATTACKS ARK
31ADK IX OXK DAY
Terrific Fihtiiiy Rages
Around Passes and in
Valleys.
RI'SSIAXS COXTLXCF
DORRI'D.IA ADVANCE
-Men Rattling for Danube
Rridge Falling Ruck.
Jlowever.
I.ONBO.V, Nov. 12. While (ien. Sak
haroff'H Itusslans nnd Ituinanlans con-
Humanla'x W'lioli nrirt1frti Mini mirth.
P.,tern frontier thero have been most
lllllb01.n hmC! ,f niollntu,n
passes and on the peaks.
Itumanlan trooiw took the offensive
1 nn thn nnrf'htvriln-M rr,ill., ..-t. . .
num- m
, Transylvania, fell to the Rumanian.
! n ,',, ' ,,,,, ,...,,, ,., ..... ....
sylvnnlan Alps, tho lighting Mesnwed
Ituaelnn Keep I p Vilvniu-e.
The most definite news from tin- Do-
. . , .
. ' . i.upi.iu m-
was announced by P.-tiogr.id yes-
'erd.iy. The ( ei nun statement con-
1 nu" ' ,a thero i- nothing
eav thero ih notlilriLr new' tn
Khe Dobrudja.
'1 "'"'"'ally thought liere that tho
P.usslan army lighting for the Cerna-
I ma DlliIKi- II. IS Wlllllliawil to iiiiiiaiea.
' "n bridge catieway two miles west
Cernuvoda. to wall further pi ogress
?, '.I''"' faKhnrufa urmy coming south
ut- i 1 1 n i itp (ij lilt' IMIlUlJC It 1st
pointed out that If this umv li .s
,ested Von M.ickene's crossing of ",B
bridge in force to threaten Ilu"hare.t it
" aceompllshed much. 1",c,lart "
Fonr PenU, .',.
i ar nail ans. tnese siii-ct-sHes in. . ii.mt.i.
1 ,, , .i.iiiuwi.
'"veisioiis 10 uraw leuton troop
lro'" 'l'"'"crii rrontler
' At noMhei 11 end of Mil- front the.
j""1"'"'- petietraud fh.- miles Into
trans; ivama some (lavs ago. stormert
two commanding heights .south of Alma..
' " """""J' " macmn.- gun. rour of.
'J r,'"a:) "' n,",- The Itu-uins held
,''lr Delhor-llnllo position, against fresh
counter attacks.
in the Trotus Valley, ih,. mAt pi
south of this region, the Itiimuiilans
made a dashing ntt.ick Clambering up
thn mountain trails under heavy Are.
iin-y iook .viiiuni Aluinis nud Moutp
Preotesele, In positions east of thn
1 G lines puss mill prnetle.illv dnmlnat-
Ju. J(
I , .
Ocrniiin. Ailni-K I. lull I Tint...
About the Olio pass raged some of the
' M"mU' "hu,"! " l -n
,,., war The Uerman troops adv:
ntereil
idvanceil
uiiiick eigui nines, says tin- uu-
thn llumanlans were able to take thn of.
1 fetislvo In a sweeping attack on 11 front
1 of twenty miles, from thn Vr.inieu
Mountains south of thn Olto i.-iss to the
. Slanlc Valley ninth of It
Ituinunlaii columns went forward
through the vallejs of the Patn.i. tho
I'aslnul and tho ultiu iivcis. ami other
, lines Jumped fiom their trenches on the
I Intervening summits. Hvci where they
, wre met with 1 heavy lire fiom the
1 German and Austrian mountain guns.
Prnk I, (Hill Feet High Won.
The tioops going up the Patoa valley
stunned Mount I.upcel, a peak 4,000 fee
high, the summit of which Is a mile
within Transylvanlan soil, west of the
Itumanlan border. It Is one nf the peaks
dominating tho road oil the Transvl-
' lan side of the Oiluz I'uss oilier
ttoops scrambled and fought their wav
up to the summit 01 ainmu i-ainmoariri
" ""' " tliom Irniilin- thero was
mori' "k'"11"1 ""1 Kronstadt passes
1 Tl"' Oermans n port pmgress In tho
1 l''ahov-i valley, the most important of
all. rtll eii.11 1 mi.k nnn.-in.-iii inwaiu
:'. ., ii. ... .1... .,
10 ill." ..ii .,,11.,, in,- 1 , 11 ii 1.1 inn ii-. iii-ii-
1 beatin The HetmniiM took nil told l.ftiin
pilsouers and seven guns, upulsing Dn
1 nianlnn attacks on fumtier heights in
the Tr.im-.v Ivunlnn Alps can of the Ited
Tnwer Pass Tint liiimanuiiis iirogieKs.-il
