with a view to the faitho ft bg
of da_ events instead of b
rt*dly inatlj 4tin order to ot the
in m ktid in mettde----Os m d08ir is i__
"urn J l newt me" ss td in die
NQ. 3678.' WEATH-CLOUDY; PROBAL1W WASHINGTON. D. C.. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1&, 1916. -NE CENT
XMAS CHOPPIN
CAMPAIGN OPENS
R tail Merchants Advise Early
'y g for Holiday Gifts.
Citizens of Washington and residents
in the territory centiguous to Washing
ton, give attention to the t'of the
Christmas shopping seaion
In accordance with a bilsed
precedent, the Retail Merchante* Asoda
tion. through President R. P. androew.
has oicially proilimed that the "e
Early for Christmae" seasom starts today.
The time has arrived for the citizens
to give heed to their home and holiday
needs so as to avoid the seoamble. crush
and disarpointment that used to Pttend
the preparations for the observance of
the Christmas holidays.
"From now until Christmas Day the re
tail stores of Washington will experience
the busiest period that they have ever
known." said Secretary Charles J. Co
lumbus. of the Retail Merchants' Asso
ciation.
New In the Time.
"The Indian summer and the election
excitement have, of course, left their
impress. but now that both of those peri
ods have passed everybody will get down
to 'brass tacks' and make things hum.
"But regardless of whether Indian
summer continues for a while or not the
fixing up of both the person and the home
will be looked after before Thanksgiving
comes and the same period will be an
excellent one in which to anticipate the
holiday needs.
"I am sure that the public has profited
sufficiently from the experiences of the
past to go to market early for their
Ihristmas needs.. Storekeepers aim to
tlease-always. it is through such chan
nels that they secure and keepl trade. But
the cannot :;ive the ultimate in service
that they desire to give when everybody
goes shopping at once.
"The stores of Washington are ready
a iih wonderfully complete stocks and as
ortments in wide variety, and there Is
:1 better time to buy. when eminent sat
-factlop is assured.
Mecrchnnts Are Pro.l.
T ietail Merchants' Association
I- 1stl pro d of the business houses
(' the National Capital. and to both
I xIdents and non-residents of Wash
menton extends the renewed assur
Ano- ,f satisfaction in all dealings. It
ii jealous of Washington's prestige as
a great retail trade center and will
at all times 'go the limit' in assuring
entire satisfaction to both buyer and
seller."
Rising markets constitute a more
than ever substantial reason for "shop
ping early for Christmas" this year.
Anticipating these rising costs, the
merchants have laid in goods now and
hav placed them on sale at once in
order to give the public an oppor
tunity to meet their holiday require
ments under the most favorable and
satisfying circumistances possible.
The Shop Early for Christmas move
ment. now observed throughout the
United States, was inaugurated in
Washington at the suggestion of T. C.
liilin. The Retail Merchants' Asso
*iation has this year named Mr. Dulin
as chairman of its special committee
in this matter, and as a celebration of
the inaugural of the movement this
year. the committee will meet at
luncheon at the Commercial Club at
12:30 o'clock today.
Trolley Trip Planned.
in order to acquaint the near-Wash
:ngtonians with the advent of the
:'hristmas shopping season the board
of governors of the Association will
p3rticipate in a trolley booster trip to
Alexandria and Rockville. The party
wll leave Ninth and G streets at 3
r'-lock sharp this afternoon. Alexan
dria will be the first objective, fol
l-wed by a run to Laurel.
The private car "Columbia," of the
Washington Railway and Electric
Company has been placed at the dis
,usal of the Retail Merchants' Asso
4ation, through the courtesy of Presi
flent Clarence 1'. King, who long ago
estaldi-hed a reputation as one of
hington's best boosters.
40,OOO MAY STRIKE
IF 8-HOUR LAW FAILS
Head of Trainmen Brotherhood De
S livers Ultimatum.
* fly the lternuationa News Service.)
Cleveland. n.. Nov. 12.-A strike of four
h ;i-red thousanel railroad trainmen, un
1. es the railroads of the country put into
-ffe t the eight-hour day January 1. is
tre answer of President William G. Lee,
,h' th Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen.
to the suits' of the railway executives to
rvalidate the Adamson law.
.Any railroad that attempts to cancel
th-- present schedule of hours and pay,
*r refuses to put the eight-hour day into
11e- et. will ind himself with a strike on
is hands. law or no law." said Lee in a
-toment issued today.
"The . nower that was given uts last
-rrir. when 4441AN) employes of the rail
, 1ods voted to strike unless the railroads
grsnted our demands. is just as good
now as it was then, and will be Invoked
if necessary. What the Supreme Court
toes with the law is no concern of ours.
We h-Ave demarded fair working hours
r dwe ar. oig to get them."
SEARCH FOR LOST BARGE.
';alv-eton. Tee. Nov. 12.-Tugs are
s--ourching the Gulf today for the barge
Btrittania, which is missing with her crew
anne.Th- coast guard cutter Co
mianchecearly today towed into port at
Freenrort a barge with her crew and cargo
safe. The barge had been drifting cn the
GPul for two days.
HANDS ROASTED ON COMlS,
t'umberland, Md., Nov. 12.-Burtoni C,
SchafT. of Rockwood, was badig burned
'In the bands yesterday and will be
maimed for life. He was fixing the fire
in the furnase when he was seized with
an attack of epipiepsy. When he fell, his
outstretched hands landea on a pile of
live coals that had been taken from the
4 furnace.
Women to Drive Engine.
Copenhagens, Nov. 12.-According to ad
vicee from Flensburg a large numbsr of
engine drivers have been called up for
Iarmy service in k-ae--w-g.mlea. and
~omen are b a trained 0& take thi
ce.
Baltimore, Nov. 12.-A bright June day
surely rare but not quite so unusual
as the case which confronted Justice
Brendel in the Northwestern Police Court.
Late - Saturday night three blind ne
.roes and another with one eye wee
arrested charged with playing crap.
They were Frank Johnson. George 3.
Green. James Nework and Harry Roana.
At the hearing it wan explained that
while George, James and Harry rolled
the bones. Johnson, who has the sipgle
serviceable optic, read of the numerical
indications-on the ivory uben. -
CABINET JOBS IRK
Henry Morgenthau "Hears"
Members'Would Quit.
Admitting that he had heard on good
authority that some of the members of
the present Cabinet had asked to be
relieved of their posts, Henry Morgen
thau, former Ambassador to Turkey,
stated last night at the Shoreham that
in his belief President Wilson had not
even thought of the Cabinet since the
election.
Mr. Morgenthau, who was treasurer of
the National Democratic Committee. is
passing through Washington as the guest
of Edward L. Doheny. wealthy oil oper
ator, familiarly known as "Lucky Strike,
Doheny, who has just collected an elee
Uon bet of $100,100. They intend to cruise
on Doeny's yacht. "The Casiana." to
New Orleans, Tampico and. Helpana.
"The only Idea in my head just now
is rest." said Mr. Morgenthau. "After
such a campaign as the one just closed
we are all jbst about finished up, physi
cally. But it was such a glorious victory
that we are all satisfied and happy.
"As to changes in the Cabinet it is fat
too early to even give them a thought.
While I have heard on good authority
that some of the members wish to leave
the Cabinet, I do not believe the Presi
dent has given it a thought and probably
won't before February.
"Most of the members of his first Cab
inet were not appointed until the Febru
ary after the election and as Mr. Wilson
is naturally conservative and judicious,
I do not believe he will make any changes
at this time. There is so much that
can happerf between now and March 4.
that he would be foolish to consider
changes."
WILLCOX STILL AWAITS
OFICIAL VOTE CHANiES
. 0. P. Chairman Noncommittal on
T. R.'s 1920 FBoom.
(By the laterastiemal News Servie.)
New York, Nov. 12.-"Will it be Hughes
or Roosevelt in 12" was asked of Re
publican National Chaisean William
Willcox today.
"It might be one and neither." was his
reply. "Within the next four years there
is likely to be an entirely new Republican
alignment. New issues will develop,
whether Wilson or Hughes is finally de
clared elected to the Presidency. Mr.
Hughes never sought the Presidential
nomination. He was drafted. He never
lifted a finger to get it. His nomination
came in response to Republican and
Independent summons. I still believe that
he has been elected. I shall await the
official returns and hope that they will
demonstrate that he has been.
"As for California. when returns from
the State switch in a moment from 500
for Hughes to &,000 for Wilson. it is the
duty of the campaign manager to in
vestigate. I do not chirge crookedness.
But I do say that the vote must he
counted as cast in California and else
where.
"We are watching the returns very
closely. Minnesota seems to be all rIght.
I hope that we may get better results
Irom New Mexico and North IDnkota."
Chairman Willcox, had a long confer
en'e with Mr. Hughes at the Astor Hotel
tonight.
LOTS OF SASH IN KANSAS.
Smith Centre. Kan., Nov. 12-There is
a lot of money in Kansas--enough to buy
th' minister a motorcar merely by pass
ing the hat in a crowd.
So comes the report from Harlan.
where fancy priced hogs, cattle, wheat
and corn are the means of sustenance
for farmers.
The other dgy a $5,000 church was be
ing" dedicated and the finance committee
announced the fund to put the church out
of debt lacked $1.500.
"Pass the hat." yelled some one.
The hat contained $2.029 in cash and
checks when it got back.
HIS HIDDEN MONEY ELUSIVE.
l. Crosse. Wis., Nov. 12-When Claus
Olson reported to the police that his
antry cache of money had been stolen
while he slept for three hours, the police
found the house had been tightly locked
and nothing disturbed except the money
and a bottle of alcohol, which had been
takeu from beside a full purse In a trunk.
Some money was found on the premises,
hidden, and the police think Claus walked
in his sleep and hid the rest. He spent
all of a recent Sunday looking for it in
vain.
GO TO SEEK TEM FORTUNES.
Ch ago. Nov. 12.--The disappearance of
Matthew Dick and Paul Martin from
Yale early this week is a mystery to
their parents. Albert B. Dick end Will
iam P. Martin, the fathers, are million
aires. To their families young Dick end
Martin sent letters which In substa'nce
read:
"We want to make our own way in
the ~world. We don't want to he Pam
pered by wealth. We will come hack
onjy when we are ready: it is useless
to search for us."
Federalsburg, Md., Nov. 12.-The first
gunning accident of the season in Caro
line county happened yesterday, when As
bury Evans. aged 40 years. was shot
while rabbit hunting.
H. wag' accom~nled by seven other
hunters and several shot at the rabbit
at the smea time. Eleten shots pierced
his body and be fell In the wood.. 1While
his wounds are severe, it is not theeght
they will prove fatal.
esaye day.
DON'T LET -THIS
C
APIGloversvillWON.
w/Three hours inter
P11 - ofsedt
4~.0
I RAGE NEWYS MHNE'
ThuI rd of dolr werervile Nourn
thOstrander, p writ
news ~ ~ ~ ~ otl ma ultr whobetlarve um
TO WIN SaAKEl1 in the cn n race
hos ate rce wr wone hours lte
stationedbi win al big ciie.Onoeatr
IDaring. Gang Said to Have Cleaned
race~~ tracker withr aiopeeseehn
Up Fortune. Ioneteehemd it oth
oprtoswo eeISheriff Shewtard. It
Thousa nds of dollrs were ,one wuringthe sheriff that
the past work by% a gang of 'daring ra.. ;Illed, allt that hie
news tmanipulter who bet lnrge sums mntetyt.tr. ho arl
be m ney all over the country on race r. EI
horses after races were won. It was s I hi
learned yesterday. o
The gang, it is elieved had operatork
stationed in all big cities. One operator1
It is saId, was stationed at a tarylan
nrae track with a complete telephone
system that connected hini with other
operators who %iere waiting miles away. SAYSCO
As soon horse won, the news wa
flashed to the men wt the money. They is s
rushed to pootroos in the citni, and
bet their money on the winner to win.
All bets are paid on the day following Next
th ace. The bookmakers use New York.
panoe ra ther authority. These papers
to havewon $60000'anhnearlyes larg
ordnarib state the exact time a rare
started, and all bets made after the race O t r Bay.
begins are cancelled. That did not effect dream "isTheodo
these wperatos I t Is sad, who were bet terizationof report
ting. They intercepted sthe news i toward the Replh
patches somewhere between the race nation n 1920
track and the ne ov.s;aer offices. it is saidy Aroud by the pe
race on which tley were betting. George W. Perkins
reandce to de ne hart hie was wear-,tce I oe
Srace that started at 4 o'clock. for terday, Col. Roosev
instance, was made to read 4:06 o'clock on the subject tod
On one race alone they are believd -I want It clearly
to have won fo and nearly as large "that no amount
amounts on other race. The race track Induce me to speak
offiials, telegraph companies and news- I do not dlsct
papers are m-iking a strenuous effort to
find just where the change wasn made RESCUER HI
in the reports of the starting time on
the races. Redondo tach
kiled an itath
ruggling wh a
$300 IN WOODEN LEO way, in an attemi
containing several
Milwaukee. WVis. Nov. 1!.-On his way 1ottle Goodrich. a
to Chicago to buy a mechanical leg to attracted the attenil
reple twe wooden one that he was wear- oidual who was pas
itig. Isadore Jerry was brought into court This pers~on. rushed
on a charge of being drunk, and was uistance and succei
I fie Iadcss ic h etlgwsher assailant.
fine~rsand ciss. incetheleftlegwas He assisted her bt
cut off by a train four years ago, he hvn evdhl
had saved up for an artificial ltib, he having serve i
told the court. T,, prove it he unscrewed Goodrich icre
the bottom of Is wooden stump and wais her brother. w
pulled from the hole $300 lit bills, sinc he was a bo
TWELVE-TOED XAM NO TmuM MON B"R ET
Lbnoh Pate rN
Pittsurgh.Pa * ov. 1.-ArtstrdBais. N
told inerestng sory wen araig ebrizo wofe-~ irer
in Mg~srateFugssi' Poice our. tsward offebyRepubi
Asked to expla ~ ~ naionin wh192oeaparte 0o.oftea
of hoe an carie anthe jifrCum LeAosh Vbly tero
minisai hehadsixtoe oneac fotahed in someronu
and t ws neessry fr hm tochaGe orger was Pekins
shoesever hou, orbe culd otwlk. ay, thCole Rosev
_____________ other.bec o
Paulnb~st~. N.IJwaNov.it2-clerrly
lii.IS-earold on.Ervn, aouttwothe app noamonta<
mile frm twn horly efoe non o- irlc e toepeak
day. he tw stared ou arl. 9th . poud Thetwdinc
wen of, te Ied triiagliitat strugghing thiae.
in the egs belw waekineaneattemsl
the uscl cm tbe ightottieaoori.
Thss pertvon. .e
Km rpuiueWhat SUI& sBmtane an uce
Osiveton.Tea.,~Ioy IL-Te sta her lagssthasent.
shipAnealo i ea~cte her nex Ho wasised whiet
true.~ueng Aia wih a fl. havingur sered hinh
serg ofw~., i we aniO~q~ge ywasee wrter, so
mrng bcase eha d a aro he
attahe tis belt EresCmmn.,
tol ntersigsoywe rage
HAPPEN TO YOU!
CHO-CCufpSCT0
O R
CHRGISTMAS
StHOPPERS
WRONG MN
x" 0rz~ mPo
.. Nov. 12.-Edward
nr of the Riverview
I- village, was shot N IS T TF S
John Elkinberg and
within sight of the
Sat the oint of, ao
Ing questioned, they'
rime,0 according toi toHusLcaon
Is Faid Elkinherg told;
b~e wrong man was' eiinPoetn gis h oa
intended to kill John Il,1
ein the- evening had iN it."1stitHueoDtnir
<inberg and antiherltn et -nes a indjetra
illing contest. jIynal it rpryO nr n et
.TZN ROOSEPOVELT
Y..Nov. 12.-"dwrip
s* ofathe niro Ti
an atteesintl nom a Piti- n Commission
incs austond they tio ulchetn
rirE D EM fr acodn t 1' use tLoation. ovdt
litia siognifianc was- ptto poetn ganttelc
rters to te visitso
Inene t kl Jhnlo d the District Sahoamo Hetclt ye
f iit rtakc ntso htnihoho.Tepo
ofLIce the obJections set forth in the pe
EE ROTHER.T "
titio. th, courta will be asked to i2-Wi
a rcstraint IrilunctiOn. It was stated Yes.
eports of Candidacy i h% Property Owners in the neigh
:.Iection. A. J. D'risc'oll. 1219 M street 0northwest
Pt-sident of the Mid-CItY Citihens' As
e ciationnr expressed much surpris
a'sal News Service.) it1t" news in The Wshngto
Y..s Nov. 12-Pip eh rad that the House
eo of a r gg d idi
Roosevelt'n chsgc- tlen wag to he located in this neighbor
a that he is looking hood. "It
dPresidential nomi- a' an he said. "and 'he bringing of a
e hoitution Of this character into th
itical significance at- r~itight'orhood could not helP but be
irtors to the visit of sourer of much dissatisfaction"
v Sagamore nill YeS- MaJ Rymond r,. Pullman. chief o
It spoke emphaticaliy police'. declined to discuss thesTnatter Iasi
ty. night.
understoodp" he said
If visits or tal can
of the nomination In CHIL DYING, FATHE HELD
as Pipe dreams. r
Philadelphihae NOV. 12-Suf-ering flan
E 3(jTM. injuries that my cause her death, Eli
abett tXiss. 15 Years old, was taken as
Ea NO.1-Wienight to St Joseph's Hospital. An hou
ralon, No -he laer, detectives arrested- the girl
taerntehh-a , Andrew Faise. and charged hbo n
to save her purse with being reponsible for hip daughter
pandred dollars, Mrs. Injuri*
vi'dtor at the b
ion ftahre l- Pto his o e la t night toicated. t
dtnon the oulva. cuarrel with his wife Lad wben th
toe wn drving as- peiti n the palicS say, he struel
away Iher on the Jaw and then kicked her sev
her home and, after eral times in the stomach.
n with dinnerT Mrp. e N D st t as si s trda
I that her protector nei ghoRhod Thetei.
tomn she had not seen,
__________ Hagerstown, Md., Nov. 12-The animu
resulting from the "wet" and "dr m figh
se OFF LEGS, thisacounty. in which the dria wo
a decisive victory lat Tuesday. is being
v. 12.-Frank Border felt in channels of trade in this city. t
rigtfu fom shreordte Ditsttetht res<
a and bth of isbleg the y"abcottiet foth "wethe me
ctsnd somecourats onease bto ise
aarstrant njuctined wahrttedyeh
yen-Inh r~i at.th are rsortd to hav lstetcorthwest.,
and ideeelofonheeMid-Cttadeialready.As
,yda h a and the' ne i The WsiC ngor
pice foreast belcated ampl thor veigbr
) D'D ti.'een.' y.h sIt "an te iing~ of arI
inOstu"o wof is chaactnes ant th
Nov. I-Mr. nci ghrhoodt co inothep bu t be ha
wereb~ll Oide- tonurce oluc tifacigtin" u.f
parntsare~Oade. teacty Raymnd reis' Pulma, tchi
'odrw adUd olicu e eints discssthute l
____CHILD~ DYING, "ATHER RT.n.
J.,No. i-~'em toheilasdenha ov. 12.-8f'ein fron
an Iques thE ~uilettris tat mae cause her eath HElizn
larnceP. ake ~oabet alarm t5 bear od, wa an ls
~unn rdy ieIng to St.oeh'ate iosptah. An hu
ut ae~t~sx h~t heter destetve raetd - ate gire '
fathmWsh5g p er.y .\ndredai and charge hen
wit bin repnilefrhs agtr
-njur
Ae5 5thplc, as rtre
tohshoelstngt oiatdV i
"am TO = xvz;
arn W=K Two CAm
GidMge. Nov. 12.-aps wil mites
-eekts, 1n121 girls wth sal bas*
grown me looking somewhat sheepish
and gingerly carTying paper sacks wend
ed their way toward a gives point in
Waukegan today. The pilgrimage ended
benath the legend:
"Admittance, two pos-t*=="
,aed the a of a moema
thaterand beyond the "ticket"
taker bpsily plumped ado-isman fees into
abarrel..
week we're going to chame two
carrots. or two onions. or turnips. or a
bhem.,'' said the proprietor.
U.S . SHIP SUNK
Columbia Torpedoed; Amer
icans Are Reported Saved.
The State Department was officially in
formed yesterday that the American Hay
tdan steamship Columbia, with Ameri
cans on board. had been sunk by a tor
pedo near Cape Ortegal, on the north
coast of Spain. The crew was landed at
Corunna.
Secretary of State Lansing sid laA
night the department had not received
a suffieiently detailed report upon which
to base an opinion as ta whether inter
national law had been violate. Further
Information has been asked for.
An important conference is to be held
this week at which all the recent cases
of ship@ carrying Amerirans and sunk
by submarines are to be taken up. Am
bassador Gerard will take part in the
conference. which will not be held until
aindavits in the cases of the Marina
and the Rowanmore have been received
from London. Theee affdavits, the State
Department has been Informed, were
mailed ten days ago.
It Is understood that Mr. Gerard knows
fully the scope of the new German sub
marine campaign and will inform the
department whether Ge-many has -kept
her pledge to punish the submarine coi
manders responsible for the sinking of
the Sussex.
It was ted last night that this gov
ernment h made niquiries of Germany
as to the operations of the U-53 off the
New England coast, not for the purpose
of challenging Germany's right to con
duct operations outside the American
three-mile limit, but to get the subma
rine commander's report In explanation
of certain reports that he had violated
American neutrality.
PRESIENT GiREE1ITD
AT UNION STA11ON
Unusual Ovation Welcomes Executive
as Arrival HLe
Tied out after the strain of the past
w dayr' traveling, President Wilson and
s. Wilson returned to the Capital last
Snight at 9:15 o'clock. They were driven
#irlectly to the White House.
The huge concourse of the Union Sta
tion was crowded with thousands of men
and women when the train drew In. and
wild enthusiasm greeted the appearance
of the President. The demonstration was
considered a remarkable one for Washing
ton, where the arrival and departure of
the President is anything but a novelty.
The parade in the President's honor,
planned for tonight. was postponed un
,til later in the week, probably Thursda9
or Friday, on account of the inclement
weather.
In the Presidential party on its arrival
here, in addition to ibemobers of the Pres
ident's family, were Miss Helen Wood
row Bones. John Wilson, cousin of the
President. and Charles R. Crane, of Chi
cago.
The party was hastened to waiting auto
mobiles and driven swiftly to the White
House.
STRANGE BIRD IN KANSAS.
Topeka. Kan., Nov. ]:.-A- party of
hunters were near Stafford some weeks
ago. when a long-legged bird. which
looked like a crane and flew like a duck.
suddenly rose and started toward Okla
homa.
Six guns spoke at the same time. The
men did not know what they had killed.
George Stansfleld made a secret trip to
Lawrence and conferred with some of the
professors. They labelled the kill a
nhite-faced glossy ibis, a species of water
fowl very rare in Kansas.
SPIDER BITE POISONS BABY.
La Crosse. Wis.. Nov. 12.-A spider bite
,on the arm is believed by physlelans to
thave brought little Nellie Jane Griswold.
the two-year-old daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. William Griswold. to death's door.
Nellie Jane lately was beginning to re
cover from a week's illness, during which
her life was at one time despaired of. .
Iiz red Llotch on her right arm begun
NcIlie Jane's troubler. In a few days
Nellie Jane had repeated spasms, a high
feer and other dangerous symptoms.
BEATEN U? IN HOTEL ROW.
Philadelphia. Va.. Nov. 12.-William
ReId. proprietor of a hotel on Tenth
street near Market. is In the Hahnemann
Hospital with a possible fracture of the
skull, and two other men and a woman
are under arrest as the result of a fight
In the hotel early Yesterday morning.
Accor4ing to the police William Cook
claims that he saw his Wtfe. from whom
Ihe has been separated for a year, enter
1the hotel with a man. He followed her,
and during the quarrel which ensued.
Reid is alleged to have been hit with a
blackjack.
* xuiuzn ma covsrN.
Gilnian. 1) years olmurdered his cood.
Edward B. Gilman. 20, at an early hour
heretoda bypressing apillow over his
heed while he slept and the Sting a
pistol bullet into his brain- LAtar, GIlma,
who Is supposed to base gene ..mads
i nsane, went to the homne of him grand
father. Nelson Gilmen, ar.. end' shot and
probably fatally Injured the aged man.
IHis relatives can assign no icason flo:
youg OGlman's act.
Mase., Tex.. Nov. L--Me thati d
meat et turkeys wa smade bfine th
p taoe when a drove of Wese Started
to arady on foot, It is U miles to Bra
and it will take mnry four days to
make the div. The 3dmi pel tr thi;
aturkets range from U in U ese we
poenA p Sho tang -
rip NSES
SBARE PLOT
Dr. Graves, Alleged Black
mailer, Hints at Stock
Juggling.
48% the Iatens'tlesal Neews 5emiesa.)
New York. Nov. I.-Dr. Karl Arm
gaard Graves, arrested at Washigoen
charges of attempted blackmail, made
counter eharges agalnst bi accusers to
day.
"My rmo were enteroi last night.
through a window," decipred Dr. Giaves
at his home. 5 Went Sixty-ninth street.
today. '"1e place was ransacked. and
papers taen. Among them were two
half-sheets of de-coded letters. Fortu
nately, I had not left the originals in
my apartments, and so my only loss In to
me. It will take me two days to duplicate
the work. A copy of the cipher code also
was taken, but that did not matter.
"The letters in my possession have been
delivered to the Department of Justice.
When they are made public, I assure you.
they will create a sensation. They ag
show illegal stock transactions both here
and in Europe. I cannot talk of the
diplomatic aspects now. I have given my
work to the Department of Justice."
Denie Blackmatl Chaee.
Dr. Graves denied emphatically that
there is any legal basis for a charge of
blackmail. He declared positivoy that
the letters contain nothing reflecting In
any way upon the Countess von Bern
storfY. wife of t* German ambasmaor.
Those addressed to her. he said, were
from a woman well known in court tr
cles in Berlin. They were not in code.
but, according to Mr. Grave, were so
worded as to convey secret info'-mation
of a political nature to the ambassador.
Dr. Graves, at ruce indignant and
cheerful, paced restlessly back and forth.
the length of his little parlor, as he
talked.
At times he laughed. Once In a whili
he frowned. His manner. however. was
one of prevailing good humor.
"Yes." he said. "those letters will make
a terrific sensation when they come out.
"Somebody must have been very much
interested in what might be in mv rnoms.
TAst night soon after my arrest in Wash
ington. two men. representing themselves
to be police detective., appeared here.
Mrs. Garrick, the housekeeper. told
them I was away. They flashed badges
of some sort, and Insisted on searchig
my apartments. irm. XcGarrick de
manded that they show a search war
rant. and they went away. Some time
later the entrance was made by my
window.
As'peg Efsieal Proteetta.
"I aspeeted something of the sort ar4
asked fer ledetat protecties. A yovsal
= tm the Department of bustuee was
agat 'my door as I returned from
Weahingtoa at 8:20 o'clock this morning
I dtowed him what had been done "
While Dr. Graves was speaking the TN
partment of Justice agent returned I"-.
Graves gave him one of the letters in
the case. to he forwarded to Washington.
and a reeeipt was signed for It.
"The - .--ttera." Dr Grav
resumne. .re letters at Atll
They an r1y cleveAy construrted and
Inconspicuous means of conveyarce of in
formation. They are In a woman'. hand
writing. The writer is well known to, '-is.
"The statement of Prince von 1talf'idy,
that he had shown me 3.W is false, an-i
is not borne out by the aovernment wit
nesoes. The Countess von Be-nstorff was
at no time mentioned by the pi ice or m
self In the transaction The letters d'
not certain arything which could corn
promise a lady or tend themselves to
the blackmailing of a w oan Th'y n,
simply and solely of diplomatic intrrest.
end partly cornpromising to the 0ou-:
von BernstorfT alone, for they divule
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
MEXICAN PEACE ENVOYS
TO REPUDIATE CABRERA
May Invite Americans to Meet Car
ranza in Mexico.
(By the International News %erviec.)
Atlantic City. N. J., Nov 12--'riction
developed today between 1-uis Cabreia.
chairman of the Mexican peace delegatlo'
and Alberto J. I'ni and Ignacie ftonillas.
his fellow envoys. As a result Panm and
Bonillas are expected to ask Ciran;- to
remove Cabrera and Invite the Amer. an
delegates to confer persor ally with the
first chief in Mexico er on ih. lorder
The feud has been cimmerinz fm s',me
time'. Details were made public today for
the first time. The fight began in New
London. when Par srled with the Amer .
can* in certain features of a p:an t.
rehabilitate the Mexican railwa's. of
which Pani Is head. abr upset 'ani
work by criticism. Sug "ions advanced
by Bonillas were lilkewli verthrown h,
Cabrera.
Friends of Pat and IBonillas the: -in
formed Carranss that Cabrera was inte
fering with the work of the commission
by his fault-finding. Cabrera Is Mexico's
secretary of finance and one of his duties
here was to secure financial aid for Car
ransa in the United States. In this work
the first chief was told. Cabrera had
failed.
MIESTANDISH HELD u.
PhiladelphIa. Nov. l-he lastest v~e
tim of holdup men here hears a name
prominent in the annals of the country's
early history.
He is Miles Standish sd he uye held
up and robbed of hi, watch by tw'o thugs
at Eighty-fifth street and the Reading
Bailmaay eariy yesteriday morning. Stand
lab,. who is 24 years old. was walking
along E:ighty-fith atteet on his way home
and was suddenly attacked by the men.
He fought them, the polices my, with all
the fierce courage that char'acteiied his
eamou namesake, but was knoeked down
-e badly beaten.
vLIMS xm nzvs.
fit- Cloud. Minn.. Iley. 12.-"'here is
no pr'ivIleg. a wosma shsade et -have
that a maa has." With t~a egsteaoa
et Iaepemenee a hustre.s whose Olg'a
..ttar bore the naame of Anme Bakn.
nonchalmasy flecked the ashes fresa a
long bl igrand resumsed her after
dinaar"Why sheutbe't I seeke
cia I"& mltantly inqd en fur
ther' M "Isnm, ' t It gege
se t be ..mg at 4lasie as
5. '
