Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MOKXINH, NOVEMBER 13, 1916
vuana.tvxa -
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 178
BE OPENED Id
MOM'S GREATEST FA
RW
AY
3T
TORCYCLE RACES
FIRST DAY; FINISH OF THE BIG
mm RACE
Arizona's greatest state fair tho big-
gest and best in the history of the
...
state, will open tins afternoon at 1:,0
o'clock, follow ins tlie monster parade
that w ill be held at 1 o'clock. Every- j Superintendent Joe V. I'rochaska. will
thins is in readiness for an auspicious ; considerably larger than during past
, , vears. More than aii.ooii pounds of high
opening, the side shows are lined up. pra(U. ores wiM ,,e sllwn in this exhibit
the motorcycles for the first day's race lms year than was exhibited at the
meet are tuned to the minute, ad ex- state fair in 1H1T..
hibits are in place and everything else The model of the battles-hip Wy
is in perfect shape for the opening day. oming, sister ship of the new dread
Beginning at 12:30 o'clock this after- naught Arizona, is on display tit the
noon, the big parade will assemble at fair grounds, a monster wireless has
Sixth avenue and Washington streets been installed and is in charge of l-'red
and at 1 o'clock will march east on Roebuck, Kobert Higgy and .lames Gir
Wnshington to Third street, thence and, who represent the Radio Associ
north to Adams street, thence west ation of Arizona. The operators have
along Adams to Fourth avenue where been in communication with stations on
il will disband preparatory to going to the Panama canal, in Canada and with
the fair grounds. , various ships in the Pacific ocean. This
In the parade will be Governor (J. W. will be a very interesting feature of
I'. Hunt, the mounted police of the citv, the big fair.
the fair commissioners. Secretary T. D. The sneed program, for which more
Shaughnessy and manv other celebri- than $16,000 has been offered, will be
i;es who have co-operated with the the biggest in the history of an Arizona
state fair commission to make the l!1t State Fair. Not only will there be a
0 ent the biggest in the history of the very attractive offering of horse races
Ftate. but the motorcycle and automohiU'
. uere'll be a dozen charming diving races will be highly interesting,
girls, a number of cowboys and cow- Secretary T. D. Shaughnessy and the
girls who will participate in the wild Arizona State Fair Commission de
west rodeo, scores of carnival perform- serves great credit for the commend-
and many local people in automo- able manner in which they have ar-
1 ile's in the parade. (ranged the program this year. There'll
ine race program this afternoon is a he something doing every minute ac
most attractive one. i cording to those who are familiar with
First will be the one mile time trials thp nature of the program and have
to heat the track record of 46 seconds. ' ""een many of the high class acts and
Then comes the five mile open and the features that have been arranged,
ten miler. j The stock exhibit will be bigger than
, The feature is the Xational Profes- ' ever this year as a result of the great
sional Championship for the hour race, interest that has been created among
awarded under sanction of the F. A. M. the cattlemen of the state. Likewise
Details of the motorcycle plans and the; w'ol the collection of farming imple
entry list for the auto race will be ments and agricultural products out
found on the sport page. i rival the similar displays of previous
The w indup of the Douglas to l'hoe- years,
nix road race will occur at the entrance ,n the Women's department and art
to the State Fair grounds about 1:30
o'clock. It is expected that a great
c rowd will be on hand to witness this Iort "' -klrs- -lames, who has succeeded
event in view of the interest that has;1" gathering together the greatest col
been manifested in the "desert classic"1 bction of pictures, both paintings and
during the past few weeks. ! pnotographs. that have ever been
Children to Parade shown at an Arizona State Fair.
At 1:3ft o'clock, more than 300 chil-i Secretary Shaughnessy has made ar
rtren will gather for the first presenta- rangements for the automobiles to use
tion of the gorgeous pageants that will ' Grand avenue directly to the fair
be presented by the kiddies during the grounds. In past years the machines
week. A big parade will be held bv the wort comI"llpd to take a longer route
children in front of the grandstand and 10 the Kr,,unds as this thoroughfare
will he lead bv little Miss Dorothy was reservpl exclusively for horse
Stauffer. who has been chosen queen of drawn vehicles. This year the longer
the parade. Miss Dorothy is the daugh- foute w,n ''e ta'"'n by. those who drive
ter of C. A. Stauffer. business manaireri
of The Arizona Republican. .The ehil-
dren's parade will be ended bv 1 : 30 ,
o'clock when thfy will present a" num-
bcr of beautiful dances
Carnival Here
The Great Wortham Shows which'
arrived on the Golden State Special i
yesterday morning, have erected their
tops at Sixth Avenue and Washington
strcts and at the fair grounds, where
they will perform constantly during the
big week. The Wortham shows in
' hide the famous water carnival that
lias been a banner attraction at state
fairs, from the Atlantic to the Pacific 1
coasts .More lh;in e Mov.r, ,.,... .1:,.
mg gins will perrorm veveral times
daily in the most difficult feats known
to professional amintie performers.
All Phoenix is decorated for the big
week. Panners and American flags
have been strung across the streets in
the business section and merchants
nave
..it In spci-ial window disnlavs I
Tr,rtj' h"u!ers a,ong iM ri?m,Ar;
,e f ir 1 h Principal route to ,,v jlIry hero latP tod.lv. RofraR0
rXrl ' ' 'leaned up their j v ;,s accused of having ordered Oal-
e'Tr, ,,,e'; 7 c, , r'"lT to ,h" -m:,rVH deatu as the result of a politi
.ent request of state Fair Secretary T. on! fend. Th- trial Involved citv of
I). Shaughnessy. . ficials, political leaders and deni-
The exhibits at the state fair this zens of the underworld and lasted
year will be more extensive than ever, j nearly five weeks. The defense claim
Already the elaborate displays have ed that Gaimari was killed in a gam
been put in place and those in charge bier's quarrel and that Rofrano was
declare that nothing will be left un-'the object of a "political frime up."
IB ARRANGEMENTS FOR
PROSECUTION OF "MASTER SPY"
TRepi bhcan A. P Leas-d Wire .leirn how Iraves obtained the letters
AVASH1NGTON. Nov. 12. Arrange- which he is alleged to have thought
rnnts for the prosecution of Karl i would "embarrass" Countess von
Armganrd Graves, self-styled "mas- J Bern Uorff, if made public. If is
or hpv" and tnarazine writer, who j considered unlikely, however, that in
was arrested here yesterday rn a I formation on this point can be ob
chnrgp.'fattempting to extort $3,000 j lained until the steamship Oscar II,
from Countess Von Ber.nstorff, wife upon which Graves declares thev
f the (fciman ambassador, will be ,
comr icieu tomorrow at a conieren-e ;
between agents cf the department of ;
.lustier, the f'istrict attorney's office
and Prince .Hap'.fedlt, counsellor of
the Gernif.n embassy.
It is not expected that either Coun
tess von Pernstorff, or the German
ambassador will be requested to ap
peer against Graves. The warrant
was sworn out by A. Pruce Hielnski,
chief of the bureau of Investigation
of the department of justice.
rTiunN fine rhfirveo 'iltamnl , -l
tort, nenaltv for which Is five vears
itnorisimment a fin of M.Otni. ort,en representing various interests is
both. The o'her charges that Graves h,t'in organized by the National
bronchi 'nln the District of Columbia ' Civic Federation to ascertain, what
letters obtained b'' theft: the penally amendments to the present laws are
for this ofiiKe helng nearly as severe necessary to reduce to a minimum
as for the first one. (such industrial dlsturlances as the
The letters for w'nich c.raveB ( ) j re.-ent threatened nation-w ide strike
l.'ged to have isked 13,000. remained,01 railroad employes.
in the possession of agents of the de
partment of Justice today. The Ger
man em'nsv is familiar with their
contents and is understood to have
j'.greed that thev lie kept bv the pros-1 ments to the Newlands act and to
couting officials as evidence. The the state railway commission laws.
German embassy is most anxious tojMr. Macy said President Wilson ex
fit
THIS
done for the opening day as in past j
ve.a,rs - , . .,
J "e mineral exnnui, snowing
Iiriru.iml pro(lu.ts f t,,e mim.s f Arl-1
zona, which is under the direction of
exhilut the (lisp.ays will he greater
than ever before as a result of the et'-
" l"e R'rai piepoiuier-
i ance of motor cars.
t arrangements nave neen made to
handle tMe 'arse crowds at the gates
tnls VPar w'thout any delay. As a re-
suit of Secretary Shaughnessy's efforts
tne commission has employed a number
"f ailllili"nal ticket sellers and takers
whl wl" ahie "' handlp the big
crowus. i nere win ne no unnecessary
waiting.
Ail automobile drivers who display
special State Fair signs will tarry
passengers for 2'tc and these cars will
have access to the grounds. Patrons
are warned not to ride in other cars in
pv'nt tl,p-v do nt,t want to be charged
.
ROFRANO NOT GUILTY
rReoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
NEW" YORK. Nov. 12. Michael A.
Rolrano, an attorney and former
i deputy str.'e' cleaning commissioner
"i ... ' ?' ,, ,. ,' . ot Ve
were brought to the United States,
iciuiok io .ew i ors. . i, raves is mi
New. ork at liberty on $2.nun bail.
n ii
Would Avoid Industrial
Disturbances In Future
sepuhlican A. P. Leased Wirel
I "1''W YORK, Nov. 12. A commit
Thin announcement was made to
day by V, Everit Macy, president of
tne teaeration, who gaid the commit
tee would consider possible amend
Russians and Rumanians Vigorously on the Offensive
I
IMPORTANT DECISIONS
ARE EXPECTED TODAY I
WASHINGTON, Nov. 12. A I
I number of decisions are expi-ot- I
j oil ti. morrow irom th" supreme I
1 court. Moie than eiehtv cases 1
I are now under advisement, and i
I to facilitate their decision, the I
I court is expected to recess two I
I weeks firm November 20 to I e- I
I cemher 4, over the Thanksgiving !
I holiday. Anions important eases I
scheduled lor argument this week I
.
,P''" i1'r,t
, " i,T' 'i., ,
the so-called
! I PiisK to determine whether ner- !
; sons may lie accused under the I
I Mann act for mere criminality in i
I personal escapades without ele- I
I mer.ts of commercialism.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire'i
WASHINGTON. Nov. V President
Wilson came back to Washington to
night, ready to take up public problems
and to begin flaming plans for his sec
ond term in the White House. He had
been away two months.
A cheering crowd packed the railroad
station and waited outside in a drizzle
of rain to welcome the president. As
he appeared walking down the station
platform, accompanied-by Mrs. Wilson
and flanked by secret service men. hun
dreds began shouting and rushed for
ward In efforts to shake his hand.
Mr. W ilson walked through the sta
tion with his hat off. bow ing and smil
ing. Secretary Pake.-. Attorney General
(Gregory. Secretary Tumulty and Sen
ator James of Kentucky, were among
those who greeted him. Mrs. Wilson.
Miss Margaret Wilson, and Miss Helen
Woodrow Hones, a cotisin, act omuanied
htm on the trio from New York, where
the party landed late today from the
yacht Mayflower.
The president was assured by Secre
tary Tumulty that there had been no
"hange in-the result in California, and
that there was a t hance of his captur
ing the electoral vote of Minnesota. The
nresident. however, is not expected to
indicate his own attitude toward the
outcome until it is formally con. eded ,
y the republicans.
PRESIDENTWILL
HT PLAN FOR
ANOTHER TEI
V"- Wilson paid no attention to of-, foroe. utpoHt it was announced at l"'"" , '.wractenzed a number cf
ficial business tonight but tomorrow military he'idumrters here today re-elected members on the re-
will be at his desk. One of the first, The handits are believed to hi .'those '',,,''k'u" "fd ?. and their at
iroblems to he laid before him will be I in rI)mmand of Silvrre Onevedo who'"'ude toward democratic legislation
'he situation resulting from recent ac-
ivities ny ,erman suomarinrs. sere-
ary Lansing is expected to bv before , Karrison at Sauz is pursuing the ban
him .1 summary of recent developments dits and driving them toward the Amer
oPected at the state department deal- jean lines.
ng oarticularly with the Marina, V
lumbian. Arabia and I,anao cases. No
secret is made of the belief of some of
'icials that the situation is serious.
The nresident has made it clear that
he policy tow'ard submarine warfare
laid down in the notes to Germany
oncluding with the corresoondenoe on
he Sussex case will lie followed strict
'y. He is known to feel that his course
enerallv has been approved by the n.i
ton and that he can proceed with a
free hand.
Mr. Wilson probably will have an
other conference in the near future
with James W. Gerard, American am
bassador to Germany.
The president also will take up con
sideration of the Mexican situation
romtitlv. He has been getting frequent
reports from Secretary I.ane. meeting
at Atlantic Citv and will now give the
inestion detailed study.
A number of important appointments
are to be made soon but some of them
may be oostooned until congress con
venes. They include the members of the
tariff commission, the shipping bill,
several judges and a board to admin
:ster the workingmen's compensation
law for federal employes.
K -ports that the president has de
cided on changes in his cabinet were
said tonight by officials to he prema
ture. Whili it is possible that one or
more of the present cabinet members
may not remain in the president's fam
ily after March four, officials insist
that he has not yet considered the
question.
When Mr. Wilson returned tonight
he found awaiting him thousands of
telegrams and letters congratulating
him on his re-election. If possible he
will read them all.
Pass Throuoh New York
NEW YORK. Nov. 12. President and
Mrs. Wilson passed through this city
today on their way from Williamstown.
Mass., to Washington. Thev spent only
about half an hour here long enough
to proceed from tho naval yacht May
(Continued on Page Two)
pects congress to consider such ad
ditional legislation In December, u
measure' modeled nfter the Canadian
compulsory act already having ten
introduced.
Th federation's committee to con
sider changes tn the laws is to In
clude representatives of the railroads
the brotherhoods. American Federa
tion of Labor, the federal boarl of
mediation and conciliation, national
association of sfleet ruilwiv com
missioners, national nsso-iation of
state boards of arbitration, manu
facturers, farmers and shi"ner. The
committee is to meet In Washington
dining the first week of December.
ZAPATA BAND MASSACRES ONE
ATTACKS TBI
LEAVING
PILED IN HESPS
Republican A. P. Leased Wi.-eJ
LAREDO, Tex., Nov. 12. An in
discriminate massacre of nearly 100
women, children and Carrazna sol
diers who were traver.ng on a train
near Contreras, state of Morelos,
which was attacked by Zapata fol
lowers, is reported in Mexican
newspapers received today. After
the attack on the train, the dead
lay in piles beside the cars, the
papers state.
Only one person, so far as known
escaped death at the hands of the
bandits. He was Captain Antonio
Priegos.
The attack occurred November
7. The passenger train, convoyed
by a military train, eight kilomet
er in advance, was halted in a
mountain wilderness after the mili
tary train had been alowed to pass
unmolested. For fifteen minutes,
the Zapatistas kept up the slaugh
ter, slaying men and women who
prayed for mercy and killing the
Dabies who accompanied their
mothers, tho papers declared. Sol
diers aboard the passenger train
were without their accoutrements
and unable to offer any resistance.
Among the list of dead given in the
Mexico City papers, is the name of
Colonel Garido Alfaro, two majors
and three captains.
When a relief train reached the
teen o the attack, several hours
after it occurred, t:ie Zapatistas
had scattered into the hills. They j t
nia looiea mo express car oi us
valuables before departing.
Villa Bandits Moving
CH1HCAHCA CITV, Mex.. Nov. 12
Villa bandits who looted the Mexican
Central train at Laguna station audi
executed the twenty-nine Carranza I
.oni. (i,.i. in m...hir,l
fuward Uuem Ventura (F.l Valle)
nplir ,h Am(.Pirnn pvneditiom.rv i
(H)ted the Gallego station last week.
cavalrv column from the Carranza
General Trevinn formally denied to-
(lay the report that he Intended to
evacuate the state eapitol. He said, on
the contrarv he would remain and de-
fend It to the i;.i Cenemi Trevi .... :
attended the .formal dedication of Ave-
nida Independencia. the new boulevard
here which was dedicated by his broth
er. General Francisco Trevino today.
Villa Captures Troop Train t .
EL I 'A SO, Nov. 12. A Carranza
force which was sent from Chihuahua
City to Fresno, west of the state, eap
itol on the Mexico Northwestern rail
road, was driven back and a troop train
captured by Villa's forces, according
to a report made to government agents
here tonight. A bridge was burned be
tween Chihuahua City and Fresno, the
report stated and the -arranza soldiers
were forced to abandon their train and
retire toward the city. The losses are
believed to have been small.
Army officers who are seeking the
release of Uenjamin lirahan and Jos.
Williams, two Americans from the
Juarez jail, announced tonight that
they expected the Americans to be
freed tomorrow, lirahan was a scout
for General Pershing in Mexico. He is
charged with having been in the em
ploy of Villa and Williams with having
stolen cattle in his possession.
Allien Herold, another American who
was arrested on a charge of stealing
cattle, is again being held in the Chi
huahua City penitentiary, according to
George Herold, his father. He was re
leased by the Carranza officer there
and later re-arrested. He is said to
have held a commission in the Villa
army at one time.
Major General J. Franklin Bell, com
mander of the western department of
the I'nited States army, was the guest
of Prigadier General George Hell, Jr.,
last night at a smoker in his honor
(Continued on Page Two)
Prefers Satan
To Newspaper
Editor of Today
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
. SPRING FIELD. 111., Nov. 12. "I'd
rather have Satan edit my manuscript
than the modern newspaper editor in a
hurry." V. S. Senator Lawrence Y
Sherman told a large audience of Ep-
worth Leaguers here tonight.
Senator Sherman was speaking on
the subject. "Our daily reading matter."
He criticised sensationalism of some of
the daily newspalrers and declared that
the larger the city, the greater became
the evil of the publication of what he
termed "garbled news matter," and de
tails unfit for the younger generation
to read.
"Why believe me, people," he said,
"if the modern newspaper existed in
the time of Solomon, they would use
type eight Inches high to print the fact
that Solomon had 700 wives."
Three Men Take Small
Tug Across the Ocean
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.ONDn.V, Nov. 12. The Pert nawn
correspondent of the Central Neva
telegraphs the following rt ni.irkalle
story of the sea:
me of the most extaoidinary
voyage" ever made across the At
lantic has ju.-t been completed by t.i
Vigilanv. a small Amerivan ti.g. be
longing to New Yolk ,r...l bound f li
st. Johns, N. F.. tor i':nlif. T.o
(lays out from St. Join s, which she
left a week ago la I Sunday, t
Vigilant experienced tiliil'l.- v ca'h f.
nd on the fitth day sent out S. . S.
'alls, the captain tearing she imu.il
founder. The Hoi auil-Am i k ..n lin -r
Pyndam picked up the signals and
proceeded to her assistance.
"The captain and twelve of the
tug's crew were taken off bv the
P.yndam. which was bound for Rot
REPUBLICANS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
U'.VSH I VP.TOV v..f n mm
I l ew of the house of representatives
Jin the newly elected sixtvr-filth con-
i-s iace one oi tne roost uncer-
iin organization situations in the
history of the government.
With a few districts still in doubt,
tne repuniicans appear to have
plurality of four or five members and
i tossible majority of two or three
when it is figured that an independ-
CIEINTOF
SPEAKERSHIP
!! m Massachusetts and a , La J'- c"x sa'd:
progressive elected in Minnesota!. e are 1n the same
'W v0,? them fur or-
Sanction purposes. Independence of
I"1 ,ne Ias! ffw 'f'al's h"s iven
democratic leaders cause for hope that
some of them might carry their in
dependence into the organization of
the next house.
-V matters stand, tne republican
' " ' ""' - .,
Ma,nn- thf "'resent minority leader,
:llul .speaker (lark generally is re-
Parded as the d.-mocratic choice to
succeed himself. Alre.ldv. however.
there are rumblings of uncertainties
be-ause of the close political division
' in the republican side there are re
ports of disaffectlons against the
(Continued on Page Two) '
Nine Die in
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
VANCOUVER, B. C, Nov. 12. Nine
persons at least, including two women,
were drowned in the Eraser river,
near here last night when an auto
mobile stage from Ladner, B. C
plunged thro.igh an open draw of the
bridge and went to the bottom of
the stream. Divers had succeeded
might in recovering eight of the
bodies. Three survivors were picked
up by a life boat from a river tug.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AMSTERDAM, Nov. 12. (Via London
Nov. 13.) The Koelnische Volks Zei
tung publishes a long article on the
subject of Germany's deportation of
Belgian workmen, in which it says in
part :
"These measures are dictated solely
by considerations of a sane police ad
ministration which could not allow
thousands of able bodied workers to go
to ruin by remaining deliberately un
employed and spending their time un
profitably 1n cafes. Germany's action
is the result of humanltarianism which
would justify even the use of coercion
in the cirsumstances."
Many Taken from Ghent
LONDON, Nov. 12. Special dis
patches from Rotterdam say that the
deportations of Belgians continue datly
on a large scale. Antwerp and Ghent,
the dispatches say, are being slowly de
nuded of able-bodied males. Sixteen
thousand have already left Ghent.
The men deported from Ghent have
been almost exclusively of the unem
ployed class, but elsewhere, the. dis
patches say, and especially in Ant
wero. there has been less discrimina
tion. It is said that the deportations
from Brussels will begin the fifteenth.
According to stories current in Hol
land, say the dispatches, in the "raided"
towns, many men were pounced upon
CERINY. DEPORTING BELGIAN
WORKMEN BY THE HUNDREDS
terdam, but three men refused to
leave. They were Second Mate Uob
ett Ferguson, a Scot; the third en
gineer, Thonuis Walsh, an Irishman,
md 'an Ameiican fireman namel
John Smith.
"Taking control of the ship, these
three men overcame the ship and
ac'nally succeeded in bringing her
within sight of the Irish coast, where
they were picked up by a British
patrol vessel. Ferguson was locked
in the wheel house and the other
two in the engine room. The terri
ble weather j revented them moving,
and they remained at their posts for
fifty hours, vvitt-out food, water 'or
sleep. Several parts of the ship were
smashed in the gale, including the
shaft of the dynamo in the engin
room. This iaused the tr.g to be in
total darkness by night and iulded
to the terror of the situation."
HUGHES AWAITS
OFFICIAL COUNT
IN CALIFORNIA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Nov. 12 Charles E.
Hughes and William Ii. Willcox. chair
man of the republican national commi
tee, plan to remain in New York for a
week or more to await the result of the
official count of the vote in California,
it was announced tonight. Once the
official count is finished they expect to
take a vacation, Mr. Willcox said
The national chairman called unnn
Mr. Hughes at his hotel this afternoon.
position as we
have been since election night. We
want an official count in California to
assure the re-election of Mr. Wilson
before we are willing to eoncede defeat.
Far be it from us to deprive President
Wilson of one single vote properly cast
for him."
great many messages from all
parts of the country were received at
republican headquarters. Mr. Willcox
said many of them were "complaints of
every kind.'
To Begin Official Count
SAN FRANCISCO. Nov. 12, -The of
ficial count of California's y.Jte in the
resident in election will begin touior-
j row and steps have been taken not only
to expedite the enumeration but to in
sure its accuracy.
Both the democratic and republican
(Continued on Page Seven)
Auto Plunge
T:i the absence of definite informa
tion as to the numler of passengers
carried on the stage, it was feared
by officials here that the death list
might be increased to twelve. The
driver, George Smith, was among the
drowned.
According to the survivors. Smith
failed to observe the warning lights
on the bridge which signalled that
the draw was open, and the heavy
machine ran unchecked through the
wire gates into the river.
suddenly and escorted away by armed
guards and not permitted to communi
cate with friends. Harborers of men
who are to be deported are severely
punished. Hunger forces surrender.
Wire barriers and machine guns are
placed around the stations where the
men are to be entrained lest the crowd'
make trouble.
Many Papers
Of Embargo On Wheat
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS. ()., Nov. 12. Of 175
newspapers throughout the United
States which participated in a poll con
ducted hy the National Association of
Master Bakers to determine public sen
timent on the question of an embargo
of wheat. 74 have expressed themselves
as in favor of such an embargo or are
inclined to such views where no edi
torial stand has been taken on the sub
ject, according to a report made public
here tonight. Fifty-four expressed
themselves as definitely opposed to an
embargo. The remaining papers did
not answer in full the questions asked
and the information sought was not
HUNDRE1
VI 1AGKEN3EN
IS PUSHED BACK
TO KARANASU
itepuhlican A. P. Leased Wire
The Russians and Rumanians are
vigorously on the offensive. North
of the Oonstanza-Tchernavoda rail
way, the Russo-Rumanian forces have
pushed gack Field Marshal von
Mackensen's men to a front running
through the towns of Topal, lnan
cesne. and Karanasuf.
In the Transylvania zone, the Rus
sians have gradually reinforced the
Rumanians on the northern sector of
the line, until they now are fighting
side iiv side with them over a front
of about fifty miles, south of the
Hukowina border. Official communi
cations report the capture of Austro
Gornian positions in the Trotus and
Alt valleys. Near the Oituz pass the
Austro-Germans have made advances,
according to Berlin.
Saillis-1, east of the Peronne-P,a-paume
road in the Somme region, has
fallen entirely into the hands of the
troops of Gemral Foch. The French
inflicted heavy casualties on the Ger
mans. Little important fighting is going
on in the Russian. Macedonian-Aus-tro-ltalim
theaters. The town of
Polog and Culse Hill have been cap
tured by. the Serbs from the Bul
garians, according to Paris. Berlin
admits an advance hy the Serbs in
this region.
PETROGRAD. Nov. 12. (via Lon
don.) The last week has brought a
continuance of the serifs of shunt
thrusts and counter thrusts along the
entire southwestern section of the
Russian front, with both sides con
rtantly drawn into hand to hand con
flicts, during which first line trenches
changed hands with bewildering rap
idity. The net result has been slight
progress for the Germans northeast
of Paronovitchi. Elsewhere all posi
tions recently won by the Germans
have been wrested from them.
Von Hindenburg continues to ham
mer the Russian positions between
Brzezany and Halicz in Galicia.
vnillllA'ICt nf 1 amhartrr n.lmrn
sians are still threatening l.ember'g".
Ill" Austro-German gains in this
region are considered to have been
only temporary, and, according tc
militurv opinion, winter will set in
with the Russians still firmly hold
ing the position won by them during
the early part of General Rrussiloff's
offensive. The Russian . military
cntics are satisfied that the army is
accomplishing its purpose of prevent
ing a further diversion of Austro
German troops to the Rumanian front,
which they assume to I e of the great
est importance. '
PARIS, Nov. 12 A wireless dis
patch from Madrid says that it wis
a German submarine which sank the
American steamship Columbian.
BERLIN, Nov. 12. (via LondonV
"Enemy airplanes on Friday after
noon attacked industrial works in
Saar region, dropping bombs on the
villages of Vokingen, Mehrden and
Fi.rbach, killing three inhabitants and
wounding two slightly, two seriously.''
says an official announcement today.
"No military damage was inflicted.
The material damage was small."
The French war ofice announced
last night that a squadron of 17 Brit
ish aeroplanes Friday morning drop
ped projectiles on the steel works at
Volkingen. in Rhenish 1'russia. caus
ing sriotis damage. On the follow
ing night, eight French aeroplanes
again raided these works, dropping
projectiles which, the statement said,
caused several fires..
LONDON. Nov. 12. A dispatch to
Renter's Telegram Company from
Malta says: "Passengers of the
Arabia who landed here sav that the
submarh.e was close, hut that the
wake of a torpedo was discerned.
After the ship was struck, the sub
marine's periscope was seen 300 nrds
distant.
"The torpedo struck the bunkers
near the engine room. Coal blocked
the rent and stemmed the in-rnsh of
water, v htch undoubtedly enabled the
Arabia to remain to long afloat. Th-.
crash was terrific and the vessel
swirled round under the force of the
(Continued on Page Two)
In Favor
given. The sentiment in favor of tho
embargo seems to be developed most
largely in the northern states while the
southern states apiiear to be against it.
Several southern editors expressed
themselves as regarding an embargo or
export tax as a war measure.
Answering a question as to the sen
timent of their communities in regard
to the project; forty-four reported their
communities as in favor, and 19 against
the measure.
The detailed reports of the poll, it is
known, will he placed before President
Wilson and the depart utents of agri
culture and commerce within tha
month.
