HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
XIx!cin bank notes, state bills. 1 0
He pesos. "4ie; JI extra d cola. 4tc: na
eionales. isv,i . bar silver. IL & H. uoo-".os-
-, rnppir -;ofi!-
F"-.'- h gher UvCito- K -.id. -IUlIi?
fv 1
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EEEMPAO c IBclpBiJD
WEATHER FORECASTS.
FJ 1'aor and nft Tna, an-ttled;
rM traie. New Mexico, fair; colder.
Arlloim. fair; folder.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. MONDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 13. 1916.
DELIVERED ANTWIIERE SOc A MONTH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
Britons Take Two Towns, 2000 Men'j j
British Undertake a New
Attack on Sharp German
Salient, Belief.
VON MACKENSEN IS
REPORTED ROUTED
BELIEVE 11?
MESSAGES LDS1
W
Troops Leave Dobrudja;
Russians Cross Danube;
Teutons Demoralized.
- ONDON ENG.. Nov. IS. The Brlt-
I lsh troops in their new offensive
-J north of the Anere river have ad-
i arced to a maximum depth or one
r,Je. capturing from the Germans the
f wos of Beaumont-Hamel and St
Fterre. according: to Renter's corre
spondent at British headquarters.
Fighting is still groins on between
1he German and Biitish troops around
the town of Serre about two miles
north of Beaumont-Hamel. Two thou-
-- uw.ai. e an cauv iitxw: UCCII -eaten
I tv the British.
f New Attack on Salient.
The Anere river or brook, approxi
mately bounds on the south the sharp
salient made in the German lines by the
jrrolonred Franco-British offensive in
the Somme region. Apparently Geri
Haig'a troops are bow attacking; this
salient from both sides.-
In a tread' cense, this szlient extends
m IS Biles northward to Arras, bat
Whether the new British operation cov
ers Its entire breadth or whether an
attempt is under way merely to crush
in the southern section is not made
plain by the official statement.
Mackensen'a Army Routed;
Reports from Petrograd, so far un-
confirined by official advices, declare
that flejd marshal von Mackensen is
ratinuing his retreat in Dobrudja un
r disastrous conditions. It Is even
Said that the Russians have succeeded
in crossing; the Danube at two points '
south of Tchemavoda, which, if cor
rect, would mean that von Mackensen's
army was being struck in the rear or
tint te had been forced back from the
onetanza-xchernavoda railway line. .
force is said to be demoralized
5 from reverse a. heavy losses, disease and
lack of ruEforcements. '
The Bla'k seaport of Constanza Is
German Embassy Investi
gates Activities of Graves
Who Got Documents.
Washington. D. C. Nor. 13. The Ger
man embassy has reason to believe that
a number of highly confidential dis
patches at present missing, were In
the packet from which Karl Armgaard
Graves extracted letters he is charged
with having used In an alleged at
tempt to obtain $3000 from countess
Ton Bernstorff, wife of the German am
bassador. Graves was arrested Satur
day at the request .of the embassy.
The nature of the dispatches is un
known. The German government has
been sent all available information
regarding the packet's contents and
an Investigation, it is said, will Imme
diately be made in Berlin with a view
of ascertaining what, if any. secret
papers are missing, as well as the
identity of the messenger from whom
Graves secured the letters.
SUGAR FEW
SITELOCSTED
Selection for Factory Site
Is to Be Made at Las
Cruces Today. I
UO
PESOS
SEIT SOUTH
T
II
IIZ0I5 DOT MTEST TALK
It was made clear today that prince . to cost nearly a million dollars.
Hatzefeldt. counselor of the embassy.
through whom Graves attempted to get
the (3009, may testify against him,
but would prefer not to. If his testi
mony Is deemed essential to the prose
cution of Graves, permlsrlon for him
to appear in court will tie asked of
emperor 'William.
It was learned today that the packet
from which Graves obtained the letters
addressed to countess von Bernstorff
Wer officially sealed by the German
foreign office.
,JhZ f,uV, he susar reine7Tf i Gonzales Personally Heads
the Hollv Beet Sucar company at Las " J
Cruces Is being selected. The site will
occupy 63 acres and will be selected
today, according to a telephone mes
sage to secretary Malcolm A. Fraser.
of the El Paso chamber of commerce,
from W. B. Mandeville. of Las Cruces.
The company has definitely decided
to erect the factory, the message said,
and will within fifteen days have a
corps of expert agriculturists in the
field consulting with the farmers of
the valley relative to the preparation
of their lands for beet raising.
The site for the factory will cost ap
proximately $15,000. It Is said, and the
plant and eite together are expected
Escort Taking Cash To
Chihuahua City.
TROOPS REPORTED
DISCONTENTED
StPREUC COCUT TO RECESS
TWO WEEKS FROM OV. 20
Washington, D. C, Nov. 13. Chief
justice White today announced that the
United States supreme court would re
cess for two weeks, from November 20
to December 9, over the Thanksgiving
holiday. Opinions and orders will be
issued next Monday.
Chihuahua City Reports In
dicate No Fear Is Enter
tained of A llacli Soon.
A
IS SISIK
Many Minor Irregularities
Are Charged in New Mex
ico Election, However.
10 STAY,
REPORT
swsofl cuFiisie
PlIiLLII; GROWS SER
IKE
IMIS
Every Besource Texas Can
Command Will Be Used
Against Pink Terror.
Austin, Texas, Nov. 13. All the men
end resources of the Texas department
of Agriculture have been put at the
disposal of the United States agricul
tural department to aid in preventing
the pink boll worm, recently discov
ered In Mexico, from gaining a foot
hold In American cotton fields.
David F. Houston, secretary of agri
culture, requested the Texas depart
ment to act promptly against the worst
known enemy of the cotton industry.
F. W. Davis, state commissioner of
agriculture, announced today that he
wlil visit personally the cotton seed
JUG MCE 8
TO STATE FSIR
oil mills of Texas and Insist on a
reported again under fire of the Rus- ! rapid and thorough cleanun of nil tnxl
iBiMU xieet imnnrtoil Trnm M.,!rn
aero victory Brilliant.
The recent Servian victory In Mace-
dorna appears from the entente ac-
', courts to nave been a. brilliant one.
I Paris reports that the Germans and
I Bulgarians were pushed back nearly
l.'ro miles in the Cerna river rer-lnn.
f Southeast of MonasUr. in a two dav
battle and that they lost 1000 men in
Irisoners. Unofficial accounts announce
an additional Servian success to the
r orth along the bend of the river, car
rying the dosmg-in movement on Mon
asUr s-M further
SUBMARINE WAR CASES
ARE LAID BEFORE WILSON
W&sh-.ncton. D. C. Nov. IS. Sm-e.
Ijlt of sta-e Lansing laid before presi
dent Wilson today a summary of in
formation regarding recent submarine
attacks en vessels carrying Anieri ans
but reported that sufficent evidence
was not yst a hand on which to base
action. He said nj nformation had
been receired from the Berlin govern-
ment in response to an inquiry sent
tnrougb tne -meritan embassy there
concerning the sinking o' the Marina
I when six American l.ves were lost
AH recent suumarue activities, m-
Sudl'Je the raid of the V-oS off the New
England ceait. are beitg considered at
tne state department in an etrort to de
termine whether a new mbmarine nol-
Icy has been adopted by Germany.
EkmsH airmeTTbomk
OSTEND HARBOR AND SHIPS
London. Enc . Nov. 13. A snuadrnn of
British taral airplanes dropped a large
number of borabs on German naval
works in 'he harbor of Ostein! and on
war vessels there, according to a.
British off; .al statement this after
. noon.
Operations in Ariz. Copper
Co. Mine and Mill Sus
pended; Small Fire.
Phoenix. Ariz.. Nov. 13. A strike
which began a week ago among the
Mexicans employed by the Arizona Cop
per company at Clifton has spread
until it was necessary today to sus
pend operations throughout the mine
and concentrator..
The strike started because a Mexi
can was suspended for ten days for
alleged bleeping on duty. It is feared
that the strike may spread throughout
the entire Clifton-Morenci district. So
far there has been no violence,
A fire at the concentrator Sunday
night was controlled with slight loss.
United States labor commissioner
Myers reached the scene today and will
endeavor to settle the strike.
LITIGHTEB
Few Amendment Receives
Heavy Plurality; Pro
hibits Transportation.
Phoenix, Ariz., Nov. IS. The Arizona
Temperance Federation is advised
that the new prohibition amendment
has been carried overwhelmingly and
that the suggested local option measure
has received a negative vote. Many
communities have given a four-to-one
vote for prohibition. Phoenix. In
which the amendment seems to have
missed the attention of a majority of
the voters, gave over two to one In fa
vor of the new order.
Prohibit Transportation.
This act prohibits the transportation
of intoxicating liquors for any pur
pose save for surgery and sacramen
tal uses, and makes illegal the posses
sion of liquor that has been intro
duced unlawfully into the state. This
permits the possession of alcohol that
has been introduced before January 1st.
next, but it is assumed that the bur
den of proof will be laid upon the de
fendant in any action under the law.
Only about six weeks remain in which
to introduce liquor lawfully, and
these six weeks are expected to be a
harvest time for dealers :n EI Paso
and Los ..ngeles. who already are
profiting largely vy the shipment of
"personal use" into this state.
Several county attorneys have op
posed the new law as something that
will bring back a plague of bootleg
gers and aver that conditions in their
counties have not been so very bad
since the introduction of "personal
use" was permitted.
paid in Carranza currency. I
The sending or 500.600 pesos is ex- MILES DEFEATS DANIELS
Kr0 "Grcii11 anneoeunncBedr I FOR PIMA COUNTY SHERIFF
Quiet nt Chlhanhna City. Tucson. Ariz.. Nov. 13- One of the
T-nt renftrt frnm rfh 1 H ti f. i t, o Im1i,"at. f .... lKa r.9 .Via .w. -. ... . .1. A.
peaceful conditions with no fear of an feat of B. F. Daniels, Republican nomi-
immedlate attack by troops of Fran- hee xor sheriff. His Democratic oppo-
C1SCO VITIaC 5tnrOevTfio"--SUlMav-D'ar-t yyc-nT T VilJr nrMVn! atvnnt SB Tilfi'-
licipated in the dedication. ofiaprom- rallty. In Pima county, ordinarily rated ufonVirw-X-orTf mt ThlnS official family.
inent thoroughfare. r a4 Republican. Wilson received 336S; at each -obntv mt win ih.fnr h One or More ilrr TtMr-n
SPECIAL train left Juarez at S
ociock .Monday morning, carry- i
ing uen. Francisco uonazles and
an escort of 100 men to Chihuahua city.
On the train Gen. Gonazles guarded
90.000 pesos of silver. Andres Garcia,
inspector general of Carranza consul
ates announced.
This money is being taken to Chi
huahua city to pay the Carranza, troops
under Gen. Trevlno's command. Mr.
Garcia added. Reports brought from
Chihuahua city by refugees recently
say the troops at the state capital were
discontented because they were being
Santa Fe. Jf. IL. Nov. IS. -While the
talk of contests in New Mexico is sim
mering down, it is considered likely
that if the situation in the house of
representatives is favorable to the man
wno nas osi on in tne congressional D i- T3 J
race, a contest may be filed and that the jf VO Resignations tiepOrled;
wnoie sorry manner of conducting elec
tions in New Mexico will be held up
once more to the world.
It is admitted that in certain nre-
cincts the polls were closed, innocently
to be sure, an hour before closing time,
that in other districts ballot boxes and
returns were taken home by election
officials and possibly others, in order
to safeguard them but to an unsophis
ticated world that appears just as
heinous as alphabetical election re-
It is also admitted that in counUes BakeT I S Also Mentioned A S
-t,A A tVia A A A,A.V ,1,1atB .-.A.... .
. .u. . toco iuaivii lavjicta. uiauj
reerular tfclc-t WArf. talrftn anil nrf-
TtarM tMfnrhanft with -rifeA-A v.v ,
fusion committee, which is deemed ir
regular and ground for contest. It is
known too that the state militia, though
composed of qualified citizens of vot
ing age. had been refused the right
to vote although a district judge, in
command of the infantry, had advised
that the soldiers were entitled to vote
while the attorney general had ad
vised the other wav.
Irregularltlm ot Intentionally.
.jLuei incsuut.ut. axe ue.uii uis-; proDiems wnich have been held in
iztu&eu. uuiie ui lueia. as .ar as Known. ' .i,,-,. ., - .
intentionally fraudulent but sufficient f Derance pending the election. These
to raise a doubt among doodIs not ae- ! included the German mhmfirm -ttr-
,.-.. ,.. - ..rr -... i -- ...
MutLimeu wno. .in Mexico conaiuons.
In Guadalupe county, there are dis
crepancies in tally sheets and election
returns in almost every precinct- Two
or three votes in a precinct does not
appear to make much difference, but
when the same kind of irregularity oc
curs In each one- of 637 precincts, the
tvui apiicara urmiui-oze. especially a, aUa I . injat'
-uu VJBSVKf f IMWIUCUk MAf UCiKUU nXt it . w -w -ju. -lt
McAdoo May Leave the
Treasury Department.
REDFIELDAND
DANIELS TO GO?
Among Those Who May
' Leave the Cabinet.
WASHINGTON. D. C Nov. 13.
President Wilson was back at
his desk in the white house to
day after an absence of two monthr.
prepared to take up important foreign
ation and the Mexican problem.
Many reports have been circulate
regarding changes In the cabinet, bir
officials in close touch with the nre'i
dent declared today it is almost cer
tain he will urge all the members o
mo cBuiei to remain at their noc
mam
mm mm
Bandits under Rodrigo Quevedo are
reported in Chihuahua city dispatches
to be moving westward toward El
Valle, near which an American army
outpost is stationed. Quevedo is being
pursued by a Carrancista cavalry de
tachment, the Chihuahua advices say.
Another Train Attncfc.
Quevedo, with a band of 1000 men.
is said to hate attacked a troop train
near Fresno, Chihuahua, recently, and
either killed or captured all the offi
cers. The soldiers are said to have
joined the VMlistas.
Gens. Francisco Murguia and Fortu
r.ato Maycotte have arrived in Chi
huahua City with a force of T0O0 men.
it is said. Other reports say that Gen.
Murguia is heading toward ParraL j
: Villa's forces are reported to have I
been driven from Jimenez and Santa I
Itosalia.
A student of military strategy in El
Paso hazarded a guess that Villa was
permitting reinforcements to enter
Chihuahua City for the purpose of
i trapping the main body of Trevlno's
torces. The bandit is reported as hav
ing burned all lines of communications
leading out of Chihuahua Cltv.
VIDIMUS Xenr Santa Ysabel. j
villa is reported to be again concen- I
trating his main command in the vicin- i
ity of Santa Ysabel. west of Chihuahua
City, according to the advices received J
b American government agents. A I
i-olunin of Villa troops was reported to '
be moving toward Santa Ysabel from
Satevo and armv men h-re nrniirr an
early attack upon Chihuahua City by
Huehes. .059: Aahurst 3130: Klbby.
-OS.: Hayden. -llS.- Eads. loTS; Hunt.
-1S4: Campbell. 3543.
The Republicans elected eight of
their county candidates and the Demo
crats seven. The names of those
elected follow: State senators. J. W.
Buchanan and F. O. Goodell: represen
tatives, A. It. Buebman. J Breck Rich
ardson and J. P. Mallory: sheriff, J. T.
Miles; recorder. It. B. Vinson: treasurer,
Charles M. Taylor: school superinten
dent. Miss Vera Shurtz; county attor
ney. Kirk T. Moore assessor. L. E.
Smith: superivsors, W. A. Baker and
N. C Bernard.
COTTON GOES ABOVE 45
CENTS IN TEMPE MARKET
Tempe. Ariz.. Nov. 13. The highest
price eer known for cotton In the
southwest Is being paid by local buyers,
who are offering 4.". 1-ic per pound for
Egyptian. This price Is bringing Tempe
ranchers from Jl-i to $200 per acre. Aa
a result, about all vacant land has been
leased for cotton planting, and It is be
lieved that the Salt Itiver Valley crop
next year will be about four times that
of the present season.
watched-and evidence Is being gath- ,.". ,s considered possible, however.
ered of 'regularities that may lead lc?,1 "" or more membors of the
the legislature to pass a new election cabinet may resign for personal
law s:r the first, opportunity. l reasons. Secretary of the treasury
Return Held Rack. Claim. ! McAdoo has been frequently mentioned
The Republicans charge that the ' as one member likelv to resl-n and
election returns from the Plains conn- ,' representative Carter" Glass, of Vlr
try in eastern New Mexico were held ginia. chairman of the house bankin
back Intentionally, while the Demo- , and currency committee has been sW
crats allege the same thing about the Rested for his post It wal stated
returns from remote mountain pre- definitely todav that mJ -fv.A.t-i .-?
clncts in Valencia. Socorro. Rio Arriba remain T i n thrM.n- v"J0OACan
and Mora counties. Yet. there seems loTg he desiSS ?H,t "bIm2t .
to be no justification for either charge. $? vf e,?L", d J'nled
. In some instances, the political pre- tnat 5f. f a "e red his resignation.
I cinct committees, when they saw the In V-VLt, "r",n"l,OD Rumored.
election Kvins against tnero, tnrew up ,,-. 1 ""-";j u- tne
their hands and no prodding from the rVlpTeme court. attorney general
state committee could Induce them to e?rJ' secretary Lane or senator
get together election returns or do I i8": Montana, woold be consld
anytbing else. I erea first for the appointment. Secre-
The legislature will be Republican tar5r of commerce Redfleld. secretary of
In both house. Lieut. Gov. W. E. Lind- ??r, Baker and secretary of the naw
sey of Fortales. will preside over the Daniels also have been mentioned as
senate. i members of the cabinet who might de-
l.lnrnp of the Senate. I sire to quit public life but it wa
me niemuCTB oi ii since senate win i-ut.eu aeiiniteiy today none of th-m
- l.nttKII in.- 1? n. ,n Ca11a.w I f. ,t .a- aI , - . . w" ":
..,....-...... ...., "cb"H i "- j . oisuiuea any sucn Intentlon.
Motorists Begin Iiong Dash
From Douglas to Phoenix;
Some Reach Tucson.
Douglas, Arizs. Nov. 13. Fifteen au
tomobiles were off at 6:30 ociock this
morning In the start of t o -IS-mlle
road race to Phoenix. Ariz- as an open
ing feature of the Arizona state fair at
Phoenix.
The cars were entered from Arizona
and New Mexico towns.
"Well First nt Tin-on.
Tucson, Ariz- Nov. 13. Harold Wells,
driving a Franklin, was the first driver
to reach Tucson, arriving here at 10:15 j
a. m, making his elapsed time. Douglas
to Tucson, three hours and 45 minutes.
Ten other cars arrived before 12:30 p. m. '
.: T7TZ IT-T-r- - I
Speeding Horse Made
To Pay For Refreshment
For Members Of Jury
Charged with a violation of the
speed ordinances, BUI Lightner and
Ted Bishop Saturday afternoon were
Say Strike Will Go Into
Effect Unless Railroads i
Obey Adamson Law. I
New Tork, Nov. 13. Failure of the i
lailroads of the country to live up to J
the spirit and intent of the Adamson
eight-hour law will result in the strike
vote of the four big railroad brother
hoods being put Into effect. It was an
nounced today by Wm. G. Lee. head of
the Brotherhood of Rf'lway Trainmen,
after a three hour conference between
brotherhood and railway representatives.
The conference was called to discuss '
ways and means for the application of
the Adamson statute.
i Villa's entire command.
I
COLD WAVE STRIKES
BIG SPRINGS COUNTRY
Big Springs. Tex.. Nov. 13. A cold
wave struck Big Springs this morning,
the temperature dropping from 74 de
grees to IS1, degrees during the early
i morning
OECRESTIOI
IE IT FOOT? J
Rich Man Fulfills Vow
Of 20 Years A?o to Aid
All Hungry Immigrants
PEBCIL LOWELL
SSIEITIST, DIES
Astronomer at Flagstaff,
Ariz., Is Stricken by Apo
plexy; Widely Known.
Flagstaff. Ariz.. Nov. 13. Dr. Perci
val Lowell, founder and director of the
Lowell observatory here, and an as
tronomer of international rnntatt-n
died here Sunday nieht from a strnka I
of appoplexy suffered Sunday morning. ! bim of the necessity for an amusement
be:
East Las Vegas. Severo Salazar. Mora:
John S. Clark, East Las Vesas; Perfecto
Esquibel. Tierra Amarilla: Emiliano
Lueero. Bernalillo: George A. Kaseman.
Albuquerque: Ramon Sanchez, Penasco;
Naber Mlrabal. Los Lunas. J. A. Mc
Donald. Magdalena: J. V. Tully. Glen
coe: J. E. Reinburc. Las Cruces: John
j A Gordon. Gallup: James A. Baird,
Alamogordo (still in doubt, however.
as William Rutherford. Democrat, also
claims to have been elected by a few
votes!. William D. Murray. Silver City.
Democrats: Isaac Barth. Albuquerque,
(although J. H. Cristman. Aztec. Re
publican, claims that the official count
will show he is elected!: A. V. Lueero.
luuon: G. C- Smith. Clayton: Melvln T.
Dunlavy. Santa Fe: Jess- S. Lea, Ros
well. Dr. M. P. Skeen. Artesia; R. G.
Bryant. Portales; Albert Calish. of Tii-
mcari: L. C Mersfelder. of Santa
lSin?n!tr Tn TT--iH
Pecretary Tumulty Is expected to re
main In his present post, although he
could be appointed as a member of the
board of general appraisers in New
. ." .?e desired. Reports have con
nected Mr. Tumulty's name with, a
cabinet position, but it was stated
authoritatively today that he will not
become a cabinet officer.
"Wilson Plans Legislation.
Because or the probability that the
next house will be Republican, the
president is laying plans to secure as
much important legislation as possibl
during the short session opening next
month. Measures he particularly de
sires passed are those to allow Amer
ican exporters to establish common
selling agencies abroad: to enlarge the
interstate COmme Anmml-elA a . .
at present, although formerly nf : crpjtn marH-.- r ... ." .,
Clovis. future a rcrtriVVm i.V ,-.'Sf SuBJ
Il.v ll.ln- VCIll .A,-.f I aaaa .... -l . J . " ... nuilta
-" .. .- -- -,,.,-,.. ,,r:dii.v inroarAnu.
. ae ihiubv ill consist ui tne XOI-
country In a railroad strike.
to involve the
ness of the atmosphere.
llelleved Mar Inhabited.
r-ambridge. Mass. Nov. IS. Dr. Per-
lt is stateu
C0CKRAN TO DEFEND FIVE
'CHARGED WITH BOMB MURDIRS
j'S.n Ira.nisco. Calif.. Nov. it
Birorke ' -'ira New York attoney
New Tork. Nov. 13. Twenty year
ago Max' Gootschneider. with his wife
and baby girl, arrived In New York, !
penniless, from Volna. Russia. He '
.:. a-j jl. a-. a.i . i I auiw lUrSa
". aua ine jury tinea tnem tne re- L-sseij noip irom a cnaritaoie organ-! rival Lowell. h ,-,. ar hi. V
. . - -.-. -.w. A (.., Uf .-
iz:tlon and was given a. Job as a fur i vte observatory at Flagstaff. Ariz..
dyer. In return he made a vow that I wa!hIe?irt,', itoday' was bell knwn
. ... . ,,, . I as the principal exponent of the theory
rh.K l,,c .ton, -htap elmnld k. -a ..t - . , . T . .. - .....u,
all men who were hungry, as he was
then, should be fed.
The immigrant became a prosperous
flit ifAlAA aas Ciiniln-, annnnnAA. .t,.
lpe0r?or3UadSjeuryIUt?;ai:- Vhry.f ! corainB - ot h,s d8h "
Dr. Lowell apparently was In good hall for the convalescent soldiers at
health when he arrived here recently F.OTt Bli8s for the winter. There Is no
frnm n. Wtnra -ln . ". . fy -- --.. t".ic
Dr. Lrowell's home was
neHied- Gen. Murray has been in San
Antonio for several days and will stop
Effort to Be Made Through id -jZSWZL ?!S,S..S?"j. ! ,(r&pZTe.LFpaT3tlZn
p TITi,to-t r-r nr,n ! 1- Gaunt and EH-0 Gurule. of Socorro; pl, to ur-.?1?St -?-,-S!LRre?t,.. He
la-en. MUITay tO Get One It P. Barnes. J. Felipe Armljo and So- Suestlon h-f Ll S ,.S nnraber "t these
fnr- 2ir.V 5r.MiQrc ,ero Chaves. Albuquerque: Manuel ; uea'Mon8 oe taken up.
IOr OlCK OOlOjerS. Sanchez, of Tierra. Amarilla: Luis Ortiz, prpiini ir.uc Tn u..rr --..--
rhamita; B. Grlego. P. P. Sanchez and Ktf UBLJLANS TO HAVE 217
Gen. Arthur Murray, until recently, J J. G. Romero. Las Vegas: Alejandro I VOTF--i IN NPYT fflWrorcc
vice chairman of the American Red Ar.Bda.Moj.. .Frank A. Roy. Roy; j w."!" W"T CONGRESS
VlCJIir-llir iv. JlBBUIIUUitB, jnaLa.ciw . " , - -- . i.ciuiu;,
Santistevan. Taos: Manuel Otero, Es- f?V "r receivea. indicate the Repub
tancia: O. E. Overson and L. Levb "cans will have 211 members In the
Gallup; W. II. II. Llewellyn. Jose Gon
zales, Lag Cruces: Ira O. Wetmore.
Carrizozo: Frank II. Winston. Lake
Valley; Pedro Salazar, Chamita: LI- .
brado Valencia. Estancla. Keynoldo ,
Krtiz. :-anta Kosa: Kred Iavitt. So-
Cross, is in El Paso in the interest of
the work.
An effort is to be made to convince
.A. L-.A J A.A - A fcAAC
. tok oi me next congress. They
now lack one or having a working ma
jority. Saturday the Republicans
seemed to have 316 to 313 for the Dem
ocrats. AV,
The change is based on reports from
in Boston.
where he was born March 13, 1S55. but
ne came here at certain season- for
tertainments can be given for the sick corro. Democrats: Patricio Garcia. Cip- ' ?e Si . Jersey district showing
. soldiers and a recreation hall is badly riano Lueero. Santa Fe: G. W. Derosa .ne election of John if. Ramsay. Repub-
aa'...i...i .a -(..a i .. 1a c . y . t... . . . ... . -- , llrsn hi' a nliiillt- -- a. . . a.
-JpEPORTATIOX OFBELGUVS
London. En?- Nov. 1 3 Dejortatlons ' Ifj'rnS? ilf'i? .L I T0
orni-., ,- ,rh, .,p Mi, . .. ,-.. I J- J- Murphy. They demanded a jury
A..j,-. .r. ,a.,,i ,ii,,i.k,, I Ireshments for each iuror. I
RotterUa-ro The messages stale that ! LlBhtner and Bishop'had made a bet
Antwerp and Ghent are slowlv being upon the election, each pledging hlm
denuded of the able bodied malte Six- i '' to Pul1 the other through the
leea thousand lune already lettihent.
his study of the observatorc. -th. over here en route west
lished here In 1894 because of the clear- ! M' tr'P to the camps along the bor-
streets in a buggy. Lightner bet upon i
Hughes and had to act as horse in the
payment of the debt- After a drive j
about the streets for some time, the
two were arrested for speeding.
iji'kraii
and fo-me- ongressman, will defend
without -nar;re tne live persons la
ojcted here chaiged with the muruu
of ten victims of the preparedness pa
aoe homo explosion oi juiy z;, isie. r.
which justice James M. Deaver "was ' diamond merchant. He drove to the I
toreman. returned a verdict of guilty. ' Hebrew society's headquarters
rr . tTT:: ,lt. ."".k' -5 .: limousine and explained that he
that Mars was inhabited-
Astronomers generally, while expres
sing regard for his .ability and enthu
siasm, regarded many of his theories
as radical and all nf them were not
accepted. Dr. Lowell was a brother
of A. Lawrenie Lonell. president of
Harvard university.
tt was irom tne observatory at Flag--
foreraan. returned a verdict of guilty. ' Hebrew society's headauarters in bin si" that he announced his discovery
". . --,,-. .,,,, vit .-laic mill lilts iii
was ference that the nlanet wan inhnKltwl
and his observation of the canals as be
ing so regular in form as to indicate :
tney were artllicial.
that as he was the horse, he could not reauT to eeP ls vow.
be fined, find thnt thA Hrlir-e Riehnn I "IttiA- mnnv immtf-ranl. 1ia va,.
was anrounced here today. ' should pay the fine. After he had ' here now?" he asked. He was told
It s said that Cockran agreed to head' threatened to appeal the case to a about 309.
he de;c?cc at the request oi a New higher court, the jury reduced th I "Not enough," he declared. "Go out
to "refreshments for each
Tork EOtiet;- -omai after he had re-. sentence
viewed the transcript of the trial and member.'
convlctioi of barren K. Billings, of The mock trial was witnessed bv
alif gi-d bomb conspirators, who tlmost 100 snectntnr- whr hail rniinn--
M se-tenced to life imprisonment. ' 'iie pair about the streets.
ber is for Uie purpose of finding out
whether the men need any of the things
that we had at first intended sending."
said Gen. Murray. "So far as I know
most of them are well taken care of.
It is our hope to equip each battery,
company, troop and eery unit with a
small librarv
"I shall not begin working on the El
Pabo end of the campaign until my re
turn from Nogales. Columbus, and other
border points. I shall leaie this city
Tuesday night, and expect in be bat-kin
about two weeks."
Gen. Murray was vice chairman of the
American Red Cross society up to about
two months ago. Before he retired
from the army he was commander of
the western department of the United
Slates army.
and F. F. Peters. Raton: Kscolastico de "c?n- " a Plurality of about 1509 ovei
Baca, Pena Blanca: C. W. B. Bryan. "9? Heath, democrat. It does no'
Patrocino Romero. Clayton: J. A. Pur- . Jjke Into account a probable contest in
due. Santa Rosa; R. 1a York. Alamo- e IP1" orth Carolina district, tb.
gordo: P. H. Lewis. John H. Dills. F. i V" ew Jersey district where Thomas
U Melhop. Roswell: Carl B. Livingston. J, Scully. Democrat, claims to have been
P. S. Eaves. Carlsbad: G. W. Stroud elected by a plurality of 1. votes, or the
Portales: J. E. I'pton. Denting: John W. eleventh Iowa or third Louisiana dis
Turner and Frank E. Veseiey, Silver l"cts where the pluralities are so small
City: C. H. Aleert. Aztec: Pablo tb2l recounts are considered possible.
Gomez. Patricio Sanchez, Tucumcari; I T Tne election of Ramsay from New
Lyman E. Shaw. Clovis. ' j5rsy nl the consequent loss of on-
United States Mnator Thmc Ti r-t . Democrat from that state 1-av- th
ru has gone to Chicago and will there Jn,ocr,ic membership of the house a
consult with Rertnhlfc:in 1-aa-a 1
consult witn A.epuoiican leaders as
to action in the courts in case the
'lectral vote ai well as the congress
man and I'niteil State senator from
N Mei. o ar deemed vitally essen
tial and if there should he sufficient
color to the charges of election irregularities.
El Paso Must Provide
into the neighborhood. I want to feed
any number up to 1000. perhaps more. '
if you can get them." j
Nearly 1000 poor were fed at his ex- j
pensc between 1 p. m anfl midnight.
j GHRMAXV IS TO CONSIDER
lUfll'CLMmv LABOR HIM.
Amsterdam, Holland, Nov. 13. Berlin
newspapers announce that there will
shortly be brought forward a bill for
compulsory labor on the part of the
civilians of Germany.
WORKJIE.VS1 COMWa5ATIO.
OASOS TO, HE ItKAIir.lKU
Washington. D. C. Nov mKeargu
ment was ordered today by ill" supreme
court of cases testing the constat: ton
ality of the Washington. New Tork.
New Jersey and Iowa M'orkmen"s com
pensation iatvs No date was -et for
rehearine
, suLUIER VOTE- HEDIX'ES
. HUGHES- LCD IN lll.N.V.
St. PauL Minn.. Nov. 13 Two more
' . ounty reports on soldiers" ntes. an
nounced today, cui tlu Hughes lead
u. .Minnesota to .. 9 Troops from
frown county voted -7 to IS in Wil
.cus faior ar..l Martin county soldiers
oied 21 for Wilson and 11 for Hughes,
a net gain of Jl votes for Wilson. The
tot.il now .-tand. Wilson. 17S.S17
Hughe.-, IJx 6.
DEMOCRATS CARRY COUNTY
TICKET, BUT LOSE ON STATE
Phoenix. Ariz.. Nov. 13. Maricopa
. ounty shows the oddest election
figures of any Arizona sub division
The campaign started with an appar--nt
plurality of ne Democrats regis
tered in excess of Republicans. At the
election Tom Campbell. Republican, re
ceived 35 W votes more than his Demo
cratic opponent for the office of gover
nor, an apparent change of SOOu vote
In the oonntv that' only cast is,0uu
The Democrats elected their court house
'"fers. but tht Republican? secured
both of the county's members of the
state senate and elected three of tbo zl
-iiot'is or in- lower noue
UH -MSF an Wm - mm - -a-a---aa-aa-aaj-aa- . '" .---i I V U 3
V ork For New Population By Getting More Factories
