HE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 205.
JJAKKH, VKllMOXT, MONDAY, NOVEMIJElt 13, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
rm
BULGARIANS
ARE FLEEING
BEFORE SERBS
TEUTONS CAPTURED
THREE TOWNS IN
TRANSYLVANIA
Berlin Official Statement Says that
Numerous Rumanian Attacks Were
Repulsed and More Than 1,000
Prisoners Taken.
Berlin, Nov. 13. The attempts of the
vanee between the
I Ancre ana me swinmo yesicruay were
Have Captured Village ot
the French took the offensive but their
efforts to advance failed completely.
On the Transylvaniun front yesterday
tlie Austro-German troops captured three
towns and repulsi'd numerous- Ruma
nian attacks, the statement Hays. More
than 1,000 prisoners were taken.
The Latter Are Reported tolST, som
Iven, and That Capture, if
Confirmed, Means That
the Serbians Have Effect
ed New Crossing of the
Cerna
DEJECTED OVER ELECTION.
MILITIA VOTE
CUTS HUGHES
Lead of the Republican Can
didate in Minnesota
Is Only 250
DROVE BEFORE TRAIN.
ON LATEST FIGURES
RECEIVED TO-DAY
BRILLIANT VICTORY
SOUTH OF MONASTIR
Robert J. Phinney of Portsmouth, N. H.,
Shot Himself.
Portsmouth. X. If., Xov. 13 Robert ,7.
Phr.mey, one of Portsmouth's bent known
citizens, committed suicide yesterday in
n room on the second floor of the Whip
pie school, of which he had been janitor
Despondency, due to ill health, and de
The Vote Stands as Follows
Hughes 178,819, Wil
son 178,5G9
nnnnrrprl hv Frpnch Artil- Up('ti,m over the r,'8"t of Tuesday's dec-
supported dv rruiui mm tion are Wi(TKl t0 havp 1)W,n lhp
1,r V,rt CflAinnc PnrfPrl causes of his death. He bad ever been
ici,y, wic u'-'"""" - d , interested in polities, and took the
art
spa per
Bulgarians and Germans 7 iSS'
to Retire Distance of Two " p" rthe hooihouse, about
v 10 o clock, when Mr. Phinney called him
Miles and Captured 1,000 f'om th; smmd-story wi,i?w. m threw
r ' down a letter and after asking Mr. Kane
to see that it was delivered to Judge
Ernest U Guptill, said good-bye.
air. iane suspected something was
wrong and at once started for a nearby
bouse to call the police. Before he
reached the place, he heard a shot and
!!, Cnrliiana are . . I . .. . . I
,c tv' " i.aH(ii,oWr, ,f m-1, l,.l V.annAn.wl
When the officers arrived, thev had
Prisoners After a Battle
Which Lasted Two Days
II liiv tri nn. " -v- ......... ... i ...... v w mi.mr,,,,.,,,,, ,
villatre of Iven, according to Th"y f"n Mr- Phinney's dead body in
, , ., , ., . , a chair, he having shot himself with a
ispateh from Saloniki. Iven rovov,r ft
London, Xov. 13.-
lontinuing their pursuit of the defeated
Bulgarians in the Cerna bend and have to force an entrance to the schoolhouse.
iaptured the
i Reuter's dis
is five miles north of Folog, which was j hjg j,,ttPr to Mr. Guptil, the dead
Reported captured yesterday, and about man asked the judge to look after the
ten miles within the Serbian border. Its interests of his wife and arrange for
Biiture. if confirmed, also means that his burial.
the Serbians have effected a new cross- Mr. Phinney was about 2 years of
na at the Cerna river. age and was well-known politically, lie
. having served as alderman and council
Paris, Xov. 13 The Serbians have won man.
i brilliant victory over the Germans and
the Bulgarians in the Cerna district
southeast of Monastir, the war ollice an
nounced to-day. The Serbians, support
pd by French artillery, forced the leu
Ionic allies to retire a distance of near
ly two miles and captured 1,000 prison
era.
DEAD LAY IN PILES.
After Massacre by Zapatistas Near Con-
treras.
Mexico, Tex., Xov. 13. An indiscrim
inate massacre of nearly UK) women.
li,;!,i,.. a r.A n . i;., ...i. .....
The prisoners taken raise the total
'anr.urofi since rM'nieniiwr i. w..
tatement,
7- nnnrij-.n O
- ii.irv npunnanira rpfPivpfi hfr v
Aftpp thfi attack nn iht train iho dead
VON MACKENSEN LOST lay in piles beside the cars, the papers
JLlilKD Ur rr V Only one person bo far as known es
? an 2, w wi h 8tte of Morelos, which was attacked by
to 6.0(H) men, together w.th z foilflWer. ig reporte(1 in Mexi,o
and 53 machine guns. Q.y ew re(.eivr'(i heT(f yMtwdaT.
St. Paul, Xov. 13. Hie vote of the
Minnesota's guardsmen on the border has
trimmed the plurality for Charles E.
Hughes to 230, according to the latest
returns. To-day the figures stand: Wil
son 178,500 and Hughes 178,810.
THOUGHT IT BETTER FOR THEM
To Be Dead, So He Shot His Cousin and
His Grandfather.
Willimantie, Conn., Xov. 13. Leon A.
Oilman, 10, yesterday shot and killed
his cousin, KiKvard H. Oilman, aged 22.
while the latter was asleep, and, two
hours later, went to the home of his
grandfather, Xclson Oilman, and shot
and seriously wounded him in the neck
The youth was arrested at his home
after his mother had wrested a revolver
from htm, with which he had threatened
to shoot Police Chief Richmond.
Oilman is believed to be mentally tin-
sound. When the police asked him the
reason for his acts, he said: "I felt that
I should do it. It would be better lor
them."
Wolfred N. Phelpt of South Hero W
Killed.
South Hero, Nov. 13. Wolfred X
j Phelps wa hit and Instantly killed by
the milk train Saturday afternoon a
2:13 o'clock. Mr. Phelpg; driving, waa
seen approaching the track from theeaRt
and was called to by Hubert Harnum
the agent, when about 60 feet from the
track. Mr. Phelps looked up and h
hia horse with the whip. The horse and
front iwirt of the wagon were not atruek
the train hitting the back of the wagon
and carrying Mr. 1'helpa on the cow
catcher beyond the water tank, where
the body wa dropped.
He was instantly killed and the body
badly mangled. Doctors Caron and
Branch and Undertaker Parka were
called. The body was put in a casket
and taken to his late home.
Mr. Phelps in his early years was prin
eipal of thu Rirhford high school and
also taught at Alburg ami Swanton. He
was well known, too, as a horseman
owning many trotting horses, and breed
ing and developing many fast ones
among them "Orana Isle" and "Judge,
Air. i'helps was in lua 80th year. He
survived by one brother, llcnjamin
Phelps; three sister. Mrs. Plm-be Kecler,
both of this place, Mrs. Mary Hoard man
of Iturlington and Mrs. Willian. Ziandon
of Milton; and threa sons, George of
riatubury, ..V 1., Harold and Henry of
this place; and two grandsons, funeral
arrangements have not yet been made.
USED KEROSENE ON FIRE.
FAMOUS ASTRONOMER.
Dr. Percival Lowell Died Last Night at
Flagstaff, Ariz.
Flagstaff, Ariz., Xov. 13. Dr. Percival
Lowell, the founder and a director of
the Lowell observatory here and an as
tronomer of international reputation.
died last night of apoplexy.
mttrpo niM HIRRTTTITA caped death at the hands of the bandit,
11UJJ V7', J'J I He w&8 Captain Antonio Prigos.
The attack occurred Xov. 7. The nag
Petrograd Advices state mat nis ve genger train, convoyed by a military
moralized Forces are Retreating
While Russians Pour Into
the Region.
I train eight kilometers in advance, was
halted in a mountain wilderness after
the military train had been allowed to
pass unmolested. For 14 minutes the
I Zapatistas kept up the slaughter, slay-
London, Xov. 13. The Russians have ing men and women who prayed for
:rossed the Danubo into Dobrudia at two mercy and killing the babies who accom-
points south of Tchernavoda, and the panicd their mothers, the papers declare.
Russian fleet has renewed the bombard- Soldiers aboard the passenger train were
nient of Constanza, according to Petro- without their accountrements and unable
erad advices received by wireless from to oiler any resistance. Among the list
Rome. Field Marshal Von Mackensen of dead given in the Mexico City papers
is reported to be continuing his retreat is the name of Col. Garido Alfaro, two
with demoralized forces and one-third majors and three captains.
bf his effectives lost.
POPE TO PROTEST
THE BELGIAN
DEPORTATION
When a relief train reached the scene
of the attack several hours after it oc
curred, the Zapatistas had scattered into
the hills. They had looted the express
car of its valuables,
Cambridge, Mass., Xov. 13. Dr. Perci
val Lowell was best known as the prin
cipal exponent of the theory that Mars
inhabited. Astronomers generally,
while expressing high regard for bu
ability and enthusiasm, regarded many
of his theories as radical and not at all
acceptable. He was a brother of Presi
dent Lowell of Harvard university.
Louis Myers of Higbgate Was Seriously
Burped.
St. Albans, Xov. 1,1. Louis Mvers of
Highgate was brought to the St. Al
bans hospital yesterday afternoon, suf
fering serious burns sustained when he
ried to start a tire with the use of
kefosene. He was burned about the
head, face, shoulder, arma and hands.
His condition is called as comfortable as
could be expected.
BETHEL
GKAN1TEVILLE
Will Send Note to Germany Because of Francis Geary's Car Smashed into Fence
Alleged Wholesale Sending of Bel- Saturday Night,
giana from Their Home Land. A Mr ?,!npd and operated by Francis
u.lcary of J!arre ran on the main road
Paris, Xov. 11. Dispatches from Rome and crashed into a fence here late Sat
lay the pope is about to send a note to urday night, as Mr. deary was carrying
jermany, protesting strongly airainst the I passengers to Harre from the Foresters
.'elan-ted wholesale, deportation of Bel- fair. One headlight and the windshield
rians. The dispatches says that this were broken, the main drive was also
lecision of the pontiff has become known broken, and two tires cut in two. It is
leini-oflicially in Vatican circles.
SAILLISEL HELD BY FRENCH.
Entire Village Captured and Germans
Lost Heaviiy.
Paris, Xov. 13. After days of san
guinary fighting, the vilage of Saillisel,
thought that the breaking of the main
I drive as the car was descending the hill
caused the car to swerve from its path
way.
Leslie Maclver, a student at the lrn
I versity of Vermont, spent the week -end
at his home here.
A number of people from here attend
lying east of the Peronne-Iiapaume road, Ld the Xorwieh-Vermont football game
l . U ; t.' . i - . I -. .... .
in mr ouuimc it-kiou ui x-idiicn, nun n ii Northtield tsatnrrtav.
last tallen entirety into the hands or the Mrs. T. U. McLean of Xorthfield is vis-
troops of Gen. Foeh. In the capture of
the town, the French inflicted heavy
casualties on the Oermans and in addi
tion captured aeven ofllrs, 220 men and
eight machine guns. ,
TAKE PRISONERS
IN NEW ATTACK
NEAR ANCRE
British Opened Offensive on Both Sides of
the River, According to Official
Statement by London
War Office.
London, Xov. 13. The British opened
in attack this morning on both sides
tf the Ancre river in the northern part
f the Somme front. The war office re
ports the capture of a considerable num
ber of prisoners.
GERMANS LOST
SEVERAL VESSELS
Pussian Official Statement Says They
Were Sunk in Bombardment in
Guli of. Finland.
TetrogTad, via London, Xov. 13. The
.f!ic!al statement to-day says that the
majority of tb German vessels which
look part Friday in the bombardment in
the Gulf of Finland were sunk. The' to resume bis duties at-the Boutwell,
beats arara 2Ckfi.it turptde boats. Milne & V a muni quairies.
iting friends in town.
Mrs. Maro Churchill returned from
Morrisville last week, where sh had
been visiting. .
Mr. and Mrs. J. If. Suitor and two
daughters and Miss Doris Karton spent
the week-end with relatives in White
River Junction
W. H. Paine visited at his home in
Fairlee over Sunday.
C. Roseoe Maclver of Xorwich univer
sity spent the week-end at his home,
Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Flvnn of West
Topsham were Sunday visitors in town.
Dr. and Mrs. E. H. Itailey have re
turned from business trip to Boston.
Mrs. Kenneth Maclver has returned
from Linwick, P. Q., where she has been
visiting for several week.
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm McLeod of Lin
wick, P. Q., are visiting relatives here.
Mr. and Mrs. James Kwen came here
last week from Vinalhavcn, Me., to re
side. Mr. Ewen is employed as a paving
cutter.
Anton Tumas, who is employed in
Lowell, Mass., arrived here Saturday
night for a short stav.
Mr. and Mrs. F IL Bedord and family
of St. Albans were visitors here Satur
day. William Beattie has been detained
from hia studies at (ioddard aeminary
the past week by a Lroken wnst, re
ceived in a football game in Rutland.
Bvron Blaidell and Frank E. Finne-
gan were visitors in Fayston Sunday.
fieoree Suitor, who received injuries
about the head two weeks ago. is able
VETERAN DEAD AT VERGENNES.
Henry P. Fisher Had Held Various Of
rices.
Vergennes, Xov. 13. Henry P. Fisher
died at his home yesterday afternoon a
the result of a shock received last March,
Henry Paterson Fisher, son of George
risher and Martha Stedman, was born
in Waltham Sept. 30, 184S. In 1863 at
the age of 15 years he enlisted in Co. B,
5th regiment of ermont volunteers, and
served until the end of the war. Oct. H,
1870, he married Ella Warner of Ferrls-
burg and had since resided in Vergennes,
For many years the deceased was en
gaged in the lumber business in this
sectionf Ha represented the city of Ver
gennes in the legislature of 1800-1S01
and had held various other city offices.
For the last 30 years he had been en
gaged in duties incident to the office of
of deputy sheriff. At the time of his
death he was the oldest deputy in Addi
son county. He was a member of Dor
chester lodge, A.F. and A. M.
The deceased's surviving family con
sists of the willow and eight children,
Ashton H. of Saratoga. Ruth B. of Xew
Vork, Grace P. of Vergennes, Mrs. Helen
Smith of Wairstown, X. J., Mrs. Ger
trude Thomas of Springfield, Mrs. Henri
etta Field of Ferrisburg, Benjamin W. of
Xewark, N. J., and Anna R. of Vergen
nes. The funeral services wil be held at
the late home at 2 o'clock Tuesday afternoon.
Democrats, Aided by Some Republicans,
Celebrated Wilson Victory.
The ItemocraU celebrated their na
tional victory Saturday evening with an
automobile parade, in which about 30
cars participated, carrying flags, torches
and in some cases colored litrlits. the
whole making a pretty eiectacle. Music
was furnished by the East Bethel band
and a local band organized for the oc
casion hv i.. J Kogers. as director, m-
luding also Claude Williamson, Mvron
Rogers, Perley Rogers and Fred Burrelle,
both of which plaved well. The parade i
formed at the Bethel inn and proceeded
slowly to Kiver street, making the turn
at Dr. O. V. Greene's, South Main street,
turning at O. C. Boyee's, Xorth Main
street, turning at W. H. Smith's and
Church street, turning at E. A. Fisher's.
To persons in the parade the beat view
of it was afforded when the turn were
made, each car then coming into full
view of every other car. One large car
carried the legend, "We are Republicans,
Hurrah for our President." There were
other Republicans in the line. Indeed,
the whole community entered into the
spirit, of the occasion. Manv buildings
along the route were illuminated. After
the return was made to the starting
point, John J. Wilson, chairman of the
committee of arrangements, introduced
0. C. Sawyer of Sharon, who made a
short speech which was applauded heart
ily. Several hundred people, viewed the
parade, which waa guided bv Deput?
Sheriff Fred C. Putnam and assistants,
and there were no accidents. After the
parade was over the lnnd gave a concert
and an oyster supper wag served at the
inn.
WILSON FEELS
MUCH CONCERN
Over Possible Loss of House
Speakership by His
Party
ARRANGEMENTS COMPLETED
AND COMMITTEE
CHAIRMANSHIPS
As to Legislation, He Feels
Most of His Measures
Will Go Through
Washington, D.C., Xov. 13. President
Wilson wag tack at his desk at the
White House to-day after an absence of
two months, prepared to take up the
mportant foreign problems which have
been held in abeyance pending the clec
tion, as well as domestic questions. Thesa
included the German submarine situa
tion, the Mexican problem and a number
of federal appointments.
The president baa even considered
changes in the cabinet, according to ad
ministration officials. It is possible, how
ever, that ono or two cabinet officers
may not remain after March 4.
President Wilson continued to-day to
refuse to give any comment on the clec-
ion, pending the receipt of formal word
rom Hughes and the Republican na-
lonal committee conceding the election.
he president first asked to-day for the
latest information on the political make-
p of the House. He was told that the
ndieationa were the Republicans would
have 217 members and the Democrats
212, with six members of other parties.
He is understood to be murh concerned
ver the make-up of the House, chiefly
because of its effect on the selection of j
speaker and the chairmanships of the j
committees which he is anxious to see
in the hands of the Democrats.
As far as legislation is concerned, it
was said to-day that the president is
confident that mot of the measures to
be proposed by him would gain support
enough from Republicans to carry them
through.
A cheering crowd packed the railroad
station and waited outside in a drizzle
of rain to welcome the president last
night. As he appeared, walking down
the station platform accompanied by
Mrs. Wilson and flanked by secret serv
ice men, hundreds began shouting and
rushing forward in efforts to shake his
hands.
Mr. Wilson walked through the sta
tion with his hat off, bowing and smil
ing, and was taken to an automobile
outside.
For Training School for Sunday School
Woikers in Barre.
The following are the arrangements
for the training school for Sunday school
workers in Barre :
Faculty Rev. Charles A. Boyd, gen
eral secretary of the A ermont hunda
School association; Miss Marion ' 1
Stickney, superintendent of elementary
department of V ermont Sunday hcho
association: Rev. William Shaw, Ph. 1)
president of the Vermont Sunday Schoo
association.
Program: Rev. Charles A. Boyd, gen
eral conference, "Tho Psychology of the
Developing Life":
Xov. 14 "The Developing Life ami
Jts A ecu s.
Dec. 12 "Childhood Right Atmos
phere."
Jan. 0 "Boyhood Wise Guidance."
Feb. 13 "Youth True Ideals."
March 13 "Young Manhood Directed
Service.
April 10 "Manhood Fellowship."
Miss Marion F. Stickney, elementary
group conference. I. "Iiirdseye View of
Our Work. JI. "Organization, hqmp
nient and Program." III. "The Lesson
Period." IV. "Pictures, Handwork and
Blackboard." V. "Special Days." VI
"The Child's Religion."
Mr. Boyd, 'teen age group conference.
I. "Surroundings." II. "Character!
tics." III. "Conversion." IV. "Class
Organization." V. "Training." VI
"Life Work."
Rev. William Shaw, adult group con
ference. I. Dee. 12, "The Organization."
II. Feb. 13, "The Course of Study." III.
March 13, "The Relation to the School
and Church." IV. April 10, "The Rela
tion to the Community."
Rev. B. 0. Lipsky and 11. G. Woodruff
will have charge of the adult group con
ferences Xov. 14 and Jan 0, respectively.
These meetint'S will be held in the fol
lowing churchs: Nov. 14, Presbyterian;
Dee. 12, Congregational; Jan. 0, -Baptist;
Feb. 13, Methodist; March 13, Univer
sality; April 10. Baptist. The meetings
will begin at 7:30 p. m. Mr. Boyd wild
lecture from 7:30 to 8:30. Oroup con
ferences. :30 to 9:30. Please bring
vour notebooks. Everybody welcome.
DEATH OF K. A. LANE.
FUNERAL HELD AT WAITSFIELD.
TEN BUILDINGS BURNED.
Some Careless Smoker Believed to Have
Caused Fire.
Williston, Xov. 13. Ten buildings on
the farm of Henry S. Brothers were de
stroyed by fire Saturday afternoon at a
loss estimated at about $12,000. Neither
Mr. Brothers nor his wife was at home,
the former being on his return from
l-sex Junction and Mrs. Brothers being
in Burlington to meet her parents, who
were coming to visit her. She arrived
at 6 o'clock to find their home in ruins.
The fire was discovered by a farm hand
and help was soon at hand. The Bur
lington department was appealed to,
nine men racing out here with the fire
truck. They succeeded in saving most
of the household furniture and sixty
head of rattle were saved. One hundred
tons of hay, 600 bushels of potatoes and
$700 worth of beans were destroyed, to
nether with all the farm machinery and;
tools.
The fire is thought to have been start
ed by some one smoking in a barn. The
buildings were all consumed because of
the lack of water protection. The place,
formerly known as the Douglas farm, is
just over the South Burlington line. It
baa been owned by Mr. Brothers for
about eight years. The loss is partially
covered insured by insurance.
Autoists along the Williamstown read
report an accident near the "Toad Hol
low" achool hue, the accident ccurring
from all appearances early this morning.
The machine which figured in the smash
up was a 1!'17 rord truck and had an
electric motor in the rear of the car.
The accident appear to be of a peculiar
nature, as the tracks in the road show
that the machine encircled a small place
n the road, going around two times and
shooting over the hank backwards, the
Felix Mitiguy, aped (51 years, died of
apoplexy yesterday morning, having
called physician Saturday afternoon
when he felt ill, but no serious result
was feared. The shock occurred abuut 3
o'clock in the morning and lie died al
most immediately. He id survived bv
his wife, anil six children. The family
came from Fast Berkshire two weeks
ago to the Allen Dunham milk farm,
which Mr. Mitiguy had bought recently.
The remains were carried to-day to
East Berkshire for funeral at the Con
gregational church in that place to-mor
row.
A son was born Xov. 11 to Mr. and
Mrs. Rufus Howe of Royalton.
A son was 'born Xov. 10 to Mr. and
Mrs. Martino Borella,
A son was born Xov. 10 to Mr. and
Mrs. Gile Lamson of Royalton.
Mrs. David Wyllie and Miss Geneva
Wyllie have been visiting in Pittafield,
their former home.
Mrs. J. A. Graham and Miss Eleanor
Graham went Saturday for a visit in
Worcester, Mass.
Mr. and Mrs. Otto Hanson of Boston
visited last week at (Jeorge Sturk's. .
D. C. Cole of East Walpole, Mass., is
a guest for a few days at F. F. Mc-Cullough's.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ahlrich, who
spent the past year in Rutland, are with
their daughter, Miss Hattie Aldrieh.
Rev. F. R. Dixon is visiting his broth
er at Monmouth, Me.
X. E. Clifford of Burlington has been
a few days with his son, C. G. Clifford.
Jerry Fitield got tip from his bed Sat
urday night and in the darkness fell
heavily onto a chair, cutting and bruis
ing hi face and causing considerable
loss of blood.
Walter Chamberlin's children have Ger
man measles.
Mrs. Allen M. Fletcher,
was a guest jester
C X. Arnold.
Saturday guests at the Bascom houe
included John Foley of Hancock, Mark
Chaffee of Morrisville, L. C. MeGowan
of Burlington. Howard Ballentine and
Harold Brown of Rochester.
The w inter schedule of the White Riv
er railroad went into effect to-day. The
gasoline car which made two trips a day
earn way is taken off ami a mixed train
leaving Rochester at 6:30 a. m. and con
necting here with the milk train, which
Tetcher, jr., of I.udh
rday of Mr. and M
That of Fred M. Hunt Largely Attended
Rev. J. B. Reardon Officiated.
Waitsfield, Xov. 13. Funeral services
for Fred M. Hunt were held here yes
terday at his late home, the officiating
clergyman being Rev. J. B. Reardon, pa
tor of the fniversalist church of Barre
Music was furnished by Mrs. Walt
Sterling of Duxbury, who sang two solos
"He Has (Tossed the Shining River
and "One More Ixived One Has Gone
Before." Valley lodge, I. O. O. F., Xo. 16
attennea in a oodv. interment was in
the family lot in South Duxburv and
the Chid Fellows' burial service wa
used, conducted by the Richmond lodge.
The bearers were Guy V. Hun, Verne
G. Girffith, Jay L. Smith of St. Alban
Daniel H. Chapman.
Flowers were in great profusion
which, with the unusually large attend
ance, showed the regard in which M
Hunt was held.
Fred Merrill Hunt was born in Warren
April 10, l(il, the son of Albee and Ann
(Miner) Hunt. In 1SS3. he married Xet
tie Griffith of Moretown. Mr. Hunt was
active in Spiritualist circles and was
chairman of the committee of the Ver
mont State Spiritualist convention. Ev
ervone honored and respected him for
Ins patient endurance of his suffering,
For the Inst two years he had suffered
with cancer and the end rame Thursday
at 3 a. m.
He was a member of Samaritan lodge
Xo. 50, I. O. O. F., of Richmond, also
Antonio Rcbckah lodge, of Burlington
Mr. Hunt is known as former proprietor
of the Queen City Park hotel, Hinesburg
hotel and Old Orchard. Me., hotel. About
a year ago he moved into the Waitsfiel
house. He is survived by his wife and
one son. Guv . Hunt.
Among those attending from out of
town were: John Griffith and Lewis
Roberts of Montpelier; Mr. and Mrs
H. II. Griffith. Mr. and Mrs. John Dodge,
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hoffman of Barre;
Mr. and Mrs. diaries Robinson of Wil
liamstown: Mr. and Mrs. Merrill David
son, Mrs. Walter Hazelton, Mr. and Mrs
John C. Bisbee. Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Johnson. Mr. and Mrs. P. O. Griffith, Mr.
and Mrs. T. J. Ferris, Ed. Morse, Mr.
end Mrs. Harmon X'elson, Mr. and Mrs.
Merill Child, all of Moretown; D. II.
Chapman. C. C. Bliss. George Harris of
Queen City; Mrs. Ned McGrath of Wa-
terburv; Mr. and Mrs. Philip Shonio,
Wendell Thillips and daughter, Ruth, of
Duxburv.
In Montpleier Tuesday and Wednesday.
The 2Sth annual meeting of the Ver
mont branch of the woman's auxiliary
will be held in Christ church, Montpelier,
Tuesday and Wednesday, Xov. 14 and
15. The following is the program:
Tuei-day evening, 7:45, evening Pr,y"
er; sermon by Rev. G. W. Davenport
of Burlington.
Wednesday, 7 a. m., holy communion;
! a. m., praver; 9:30. holy communion;
10:15. business session; 12. noon, prayers
eoes north at 8:21 a. m.. is put on.
The mixed train will carry passengers for mi-ions; 1 p. m., luncheon; 2:30.
back but w ill have no time schedule, j business session; 4. addresses, Deacone
This leaves two regular pasaenger train jGoodwin. Rev. G. W. Davenport, bishop
each way daily except Sunday, arrir- leoadiutor; 5:3. evening prayer; , :"0.
car not turning turtle but keeping in an ing here at lit: 10 a. m. and 4 :. p. m. j mi-'ionary service, speaker, I)r. W. H.
upright position throughout the mix- and returning at 10:40 a. m. and 5; 30 Jeffrey of Philadelphia, formerly nitiMcal
up. p. in. missionary to China,
Barre Man Passed Away in Boston on
Sunday.
Karl A. Lane, a well-known building
contractor of Barre, died in Boston yes
terday, after being in ill health for some
time. He had pneumonia last spring
and never thoroughly recovered his ear
lier health. He went to the Brattlcboro
retreat some months ago and returned to
Harre apparently much improved. Three
weeks ago he went to Boston to visit
relatives. Yesterday morning he left
the house of his sister for oiw of his
customary walks, leaving a note saying
that he would be back for breakfast.
When he failed to return, his relatives
became anxious, and after a search they
found his body in a new house not far
away, Mr. Lane having taken his own
life by hanging. The remains will be
brought to Barre to-morrow morning,
and the funeral will be held at the t'ni
versalist church Tuesday afternoon at 2
o'clock, Rev. J. B. Reardon officiating,
and interment will be in Hope cemetery.
Karl Albert Lane was Inirn in Barre
Aug. 10, 1S76, the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Lane, and he spent all his life
in Barre and South Barre. He married
Etta M. Bancroft of East Montpelier
June 14, 1H!)9. lor many years he was
engaged in carpentry and contracting
business in Harre, residing at 24 Liberty
street.
Deceased is survived bv his wife an
two children, Taiil and Alfred; also by
four brothers and four sisters, as fol
lows: Dr. O. W. lane of Great Barring
ton, Mass., Mrs. E. H. Clark of Barre
W. A. I.ane of Barre, Mrs. Hora t.
Clark of Boston. Mrs. Ellen B. Quimby
of Boston, G. A. I.ane, Mrs. Hattie h
Ward and A. B. Lane, all of Barre. Hi
mother died in 10(14 and his father in
1007.
Friends are requested to omit flowers
at the funeral.
8-CENT MILK
FORBARRE
Fourteen Dealers Announce
' One-Cent Raise on
Nov. 15
ONLY ONE DELIVERY
IN EACH 24 HOURS
Increased Charge c . Pro
ducers Giver .si-' One
of Ca-
S'
At a confer' . of milk dealers in
Barre, held Saturi.jy afternoTm, the price
of milk to the consumer was increased
one cent a quart to eight cents when
quantities of less than five quarts are
purchased, the new schedule to become
effective on Xovember 15, the same day
when the new bill of prices from the
producer to the dealer goes into effect.
The producers raised their price from
4 to 5 cents a quart.
The producers increaged their charge
because of "high prices for cows, feed
and labor"; and tho dealers declare that
the "recent raif.e in prices asked for
milk by tho producers naturally neces-
itates an increased cost to the consum
er, coupled with which declaration is
the statement that an additional cause
is the increased cost of delivering milk.
The increased cost in delivering milk is
laid by them to the "higher prices of la.
bor, material and all commodities."
Moreover, the loss of milk bottles is
reckoned in the actuating influences
back of 8-cent milk. Further to cut the
cost of delivery, the dealers have decided,
to make but one delivery in 24 hours,
eliminating the expensive double de-
very system.
Fourteen dealers have signed the agree
ment, a copy of which will be seen in
this issue.
MRS. MARV PHILBRICK.
Died at Home of Her Son, 0. E. PbJlbrick,
Last Evening.
Mrs. Mary Thilbrick, wife of the late
Frank Philbrick of Waits River, passed
away at the home of her son, Orie E.
Philbrick, 15 Orange street, Sunday
evenimr at 8:45 o'clock. Mrs. Philbrick
had been ill since .March. Mie is stir
vived by two sons, O. E. Philbrick, with
whom she had resided for the past four
years, and E. X. Philbrick, also of Barre.
Her brother, J. P. Dickemian, lives in
Bradford. The deceased was born at
Waits River, Topsham, Feb. 20, 1S4S, the
daughter of Lewis Dickerman and Phil
antha (Ordwav) Oickerman. Her mar
riage to Frank Philbrick took place Jan.
1, St7 and throughout their married
ife they made their home at Waits Kiv
er. .Mr. l mioricK s ucatn occurred in
February, 1912, and soon thereaftef Mrs.
Philbrick came to Barre to live.
Praver services will, be held at the
house Tuesday morning at 8 o'clock and
afterward the body will le taken to
Waits River, where the funeral will be
held in the Cnion church. Rev. J. B.
Reardon, pastor of the Universalist
church, will officiate at both services. In
terment will tie made in the family lot
t the Waits River cemetery.
POLICEMAN GOT BULLET.
MILK WAR ENDED
IN BOSTON MARKET
Farmers are Urged to Accapt Commissions
Offered by Dealers After Six
Weeks' Controversy.
Boston, Xov. 13 The controversy over
the wholesale price of milk in local mar-
ets, which caused many farmers
throughout Xew England to refuse to
ship their product to Boston dealers for
the past six weeks, was regarded as set
tled to-day. The directors of the Xew
England Milk Producers' association who
had recommended the withholding of
milk from this city until their price
was met to-day sent the farmers a let
ter, based on a vote taken last night,
that they accept the commissions offered
by the dealers. These are said to repre
sent a minimum advance of four cents
on each eight and one-half uart can.
MINISTERS TALK SHOP.
Discuss What Place the Bible Should
Have in the Sermon.
"The Place of the Bible in the Sermon"
was the subject of an interesting paper
read bv Rev. Frank Blomfield, pastor
of the Berlin Congregational church, at
the regular monthly meeting of the Min
isters' Monday club in the study room
of the Congregational church this fore
noon. Rev. Edgar Crossland, the newly
elected president, called the meeting to
order at 10:30 o'clock and an illumi
nating discussion followed Rev. Mr.
Blomfield's paper. Devotional exercises
were led by Rev. E. C. Kinney of Mont
pelier. The program committee present
ed a report providing for the meetings ot
the present season and while the rec
ommendations were of a tentative na
ture, they received the indorsement of
all the ministers present. Before' issu
ing the report in full, every member of
the club will be asked to examine the
report.
The following clergymen attended tne
meeting: Rev. E. trossland, Rev. J. .
Harnett, Rev. B. G. Lipsky, Rev. B. J.
Lehigh and Rev. X. C. Edwall of BarTe,
Rev. John Irons of Williamstown, Rev.
E. Taylor, Rev. L. C. Carson and Rev.
E. C Kenney of Montpelier. Adjourn
ment took place at I o'clock.
And William Arey, Man He Sought, Was
Shot to Death.
Marblchead, Mass.. Xov. 13. An at-
empt to place William Arey under ar
rest yesterday on a charge of creating a
isturbance resulted in the fatal shoot
ing of Arey and the serious wounding
TALK OF THE TOWN
At the request of Chief Connolly of
the Montpelier police force, Chief Sin
clair this forenoon arested Jesse Sibley
on a complaint made to Grand Juror A.
.. Uhenault of Montpelier charging him
with defacing a public building. This
fternoon the Montpelier chief came to
Barre and took charge of the respondent.
It was expected that he would be given
hearing immediately. It is stated by
he Montpelier authorities that Sibley
and two other young men were detected
yesterday in tlie act of writing obscene
matter on the interior walls of Montpel
ier's city hall. Sibley's companions have
not be apprehended, but their names are
known to the police.
The evening drawing school announces
that because of the departure of sev
eral students, there are a few vacant
places. I-ack of more room prevents tha
ceptable excuse is given or sent to E. D.
S.. p'tollice box 2. I'npaid fees will
also be collected in the future with loss
of Reuben A. l ame, a policeman. Both
men were sent to the Salem hospital, j reserving of tables tor absent studenvS
nere Arey aien wiunn a snort time, tor more man one wrr uu
Paine was placed on the dangerous list.
Arey, it is alleged, became so trouble
some at the home of his mother that the
police were called. Arey confronted ; of rebate privilege to the student. The
them on the street, and as Offic-ers Paine; fees are payable each month in advance
nd Fred C. Baron approached, he tired, and range from .ic to according to
1 alleged. Tne bullet entered Paine s stmlie taKen up. in oesi time tor
het. Baron sprang forward and eeiz-jnew students to register la before the
ing Arey a wrist twisted it upward. In 'hall or end 01 eacn monin, out most en-
tiis position the revolver a auain dis- 'tenng later than Dec. I cannot expect to
charged, the bullet enterina Arey's hand, j receive the 11-ual rebate distributed to
He is 35 vears dd and formerly as a diligent students after the close of tba
contractor. " school lata
