S$UVL
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow
gentle to moderate south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 79; lowest, 71.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reiiorli on page 9.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 328.
ft
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JULY 24, 1916. Copyrtffnf, 19I. y the Sun PrlaMnf, and ruMUMnu A,ociatlon.
ONE C
tap Km York. 1 Elsewhere.
City nnd Newark, i TV.O CENTS.
PLAGUE WANES UNDERTOW DRAGS 6
GREAT BATTLE FOR
BRITISH SMASH
ac fliiAD antindI BATHERS TO DEATH
CARPATHIANS NEARTH,RDLINEAND
ALL
"WJ
TaVTssW Tsa Mmr
AND NEW YORK PRESls
BARS DROP A BIT
Only 23 Deaths and 115
Xcw Cases Reported
for 24 Hours.
CLIMAX BELIEVED
NOW TO BE PASSED
Dr. Alvah H. Doty Promises
Valuable Report on Study
of Disease.
HOBOKEX KEEPING
. OUT ALL CHILDREN
Sunday Motor Traffic in
Some Directions Cut
50 Per Cent.
Suburban towns relaxed their Quaran
tine restriction slightly yesterday when
this city's Health Department reported
a marked decrease In both the number
i! death and new cases.
Twenty-three deaths occurred In the
five boroughs, sixteen fewer than the
day before. The new cases reported
numbered 115, which was twenty fewer
thin 'n the previous twenty-four hours.
Dr. Haven Kmerson, Commissioner of ,
Health, after studying these figures and
comparing them, said the statistics In-
dlcsted that the climax had passed and
the disease had assumed a normal down
ward trend.
Further encouragement In the fight
salnt the children's acourge. was given
b Dr. Alvah 11. Doty, former Health
Officer of the, I'ort. Dr. Doty la a
number of the committee of the Rocke
feller Institute with Dr. Simon Flexner
which Is making a special study of the
c sense. He raid last night that remark
able results had been obtained, not
n.ly In stopping the epidemic, but In
letting an accurate medical history of
contact cases.
50,000 Available.
"One nf the moat exasperating features
In the battle against Infantile paralysis."
mid l'r Doty last night, "has been the
mysterious manner In which It has been
communicated. Children have suddenly
developed It with apparently no possible
ihance f Infection. The efforts of this
onunlttce have therefore been coneon
I'aled on this particular phase of the
t)leate, We will make a very valuable
rrport Monday or Tuesday to the Health
Department regarding this."
lr Doty will meet Dr. Flexner to
day In the Rockefeller Institute and
tlure with other members of the com
mittee will discuss future plans for
fighting the malady. The recent 150,000
appropilatlnn of the Rockefeller Founda
tion Is at the disposal of this committee
f'ir the role purpose of studying Infantile
paraljsle. Clinics will be held at the
Kingston Avenue, Wlllard Parker, Mount
Flanl and liellevue hospitals to give phy
sicians an opportunity to study the
diagnosis of the disease.
The Health Department announced
yesterday that the records of case given
cut from dny to day did not Include
futpected casea. Thla statement was
nude because a question had been raised
In several boroughs that all cases had
not been made public. Dr. Kmeraon In
replying to thla said that diagnoses In
most Instance were very accurate, citing
as an example that out of the first 300
cases diagnosed by the city only seven
had been finally reported suffering from
other diseases.
Public l.eas Hysterical.
It wa unite apparent yesterday that
the public's attitude as well as that of
the officials was less hysterical. The
I arks were crowded with women and
children. The river boats leaving the
Hattery and Hudson River plera Issued
no restrictions against carrying children.
The owners of the steamship Mandalay,
which runs between New York and At
lantic Highlands, announced to all pass
tigers that the New Jersey authorities
would not permit any of them to land.
This did not affect traffic, as most of the
lassengers went principally for the sail
an.l the dHficing on board the boat,
The public bath houses at the Hattery
were open without restrictions, as well
the Battery swimming baths. The
Coney Island and Rockaway Beach
tents left their plera all day and eve
ning crowded with children.
When a reporter for The Hun visited
Jersey City he found conditions there
part -ularly iiulet, although the Pennsyl
vania Itallioad police, who watch the
ferry tralllr, said motorists were appar
ently shunning New Jersey, as the num.
ber 'it machines crossing the river had
'hopped 50 per cent. The New Jersey
street car companies also reported a
marked falling off In their business,
b amlng the paralysis scare for the con
dition. All Car Fumlsratrd.
The station master of the Pennsyl
vania Railroad at Jersey City said he
had rei eved no notification from inv
f the authorities to have children
Hopped, nor had he seen any health In
f.'jeuorn w.itrlilng ferry passengers dls
'Ti..,rk The. company, he aald, had
taken the. precaution of fumigating
'ifn ar when trains were made up and
tak'-n ,n'o the train sheds.
Tie i-Vdrral Health Service offlcera
ti ' n d in the Hudson Terminal Hulld
tr.g in ,vi),. reitlllcates to persons going
' lube to New- Jersey quit about 1
nelocx it-sterd.iy on account of lack of
''""i' " Terminal employees said adult
rail), nnmliied about the same, but
the i. nn fow children,
llo'ioKcn provi-il to he the stickler on
i'i iintine. No child under 18 was per
tntd , vMfJ. ,,nl me s((UnrB Cty
ttlti t without a certificate. Policemen
t ail ti, railroad stations and ferry
'i !'am-e.i turned all children away.
I.ir-Vrfwumia railroad ofllclals an
your.cid that they had received word
tri.ni Isioniun, Klngslaml, I.yndhurst,
rtterson and Mountain Lakes that no
, Continued on Seventh Pagt.
Great Surf at Coney Islnnd
and Rncknwny Bench Traps
Sundny Swimmers.
1 LOST IN JAMAICA HAY
Two Girls, Sisters, Are lies
cued by Life Guards Off
Oriental Point.
A ft eat surf, thrown up by the storms
which have been spending themselves nt
aea within the !nt week, flinging Itself
ashore) at the I,ong Island benches yes
terday was responsible for an undertow
which made bathing unusually hazar
dous. Ilefore the day had done, five
wlmmer were dragged to their death.
Another drowned In a dorp hole In
Jamaica Hay.
Seldom. Indeed, has the ocean buf
feted the Long Island shore with the
violence shown esterdiy. It thundered
ashore with an angry roar that sug
gested wintry rage rather than summer
playfulness. Notwithstanding this, the
beaches, were swarming with bathers,
most of whom contented themselves with
rolling about In the white water close
Inshore.
Abraham Krlln of ITS Manhattan nve
nuc, Brooklyn, was caught In the under
tow fifty yards off shore at Coney Island.
His body was recovered by beach guards.
An unidentified youth about IS ears
old was drowned off Hciulert-on'a Walk.
His body now Is In the Coney Island
morgue.
Isaac Wnumkoweky of 73 Fifth
street, Manhattan, was hauled from tha
surf at the same point, unconscious.
He was rev.ved. but dropped dead a
few moments afterward.
At Delle Harlmr. Adolph Wlnknpp, 19,
who was visiting his uncle, Dr. John J.
Hogan, swam out too far ind was un-
aj,e to rac, shore.
William J. McCoy
heard his cries and swam to him, but a
Kitrtii i.ie line me r aii.i upu 11 ....iii
from his rescuer's grasp. Wlnknpp sank
and hi body came ashore two blocks
away,
Harry O'Connell, 2.1, of fiif. I.eonaid
ttrept, Hrooklyn, a bookkeeper, felt him
self lielng carried to sea at Rockaway.
He cried for help, and tieorire Zimmer
man swam to him and brought him
ashore. Zimmerman tried artificial
respiration, but wax unable to restore
O'Connell to consclousne.-.
The sixth bathing victim was Samuel
McNally. 22, of S24 West Thirty-ninth
street, who stepped Into a hole In Ja
maica Bay at the foot of Bayvlew ave
nue, Rockaway Beach. Hla body was
not recovered.
Two others who had a narrow escape
were Agnes and Crsula Kllroy, sisters, of
1724 Sixty-first street, Brooklyn, who
were saved by life guards near the r.ift
off Oriental Point, Manhattan Reach.
Stamford Pnrk flalhrr Drowns.
Stamforo. Conn., July 211. Bartholo
mew Margarlello, 22. of 3 Holly place,
was drowned while bathing In Halloween
Park here this afternoon, enable to
swim, he got beyond hie depth and was
In the wnter twenty mlnules before his
body was recovered. An effort was then
made to revive him with the lung motor,
but it was unsuccessful.
SHARK SHOT IN JAMAICA BAY.
Or. K. W. Ilalary of Brooklyn nans
a Six Footer.
Add Broad Channel, Jamaica Bay, to
the shark centres. A "sa tiger" with
a r:eaktlsh appetite was .ipturcd there
yesterday afternoon by Dr. Kdward W
Halsey of 203 Jefferson avenue, Brook
lyn. The blue nose specimen was 6 feet
7 Inches long and weighed 140 pounds.
Dr. Halsey was fishing off the Long
Island Railroad trestle over the bay
when the fin and tall of the shark were
sighted. Arming himself with a maga
zine rifle he went after It.
A heavy line was batted with a whole
fish. The shark bit within a few min
utes. For an hour and thirty-five min
utes Dr. Halsey and two companion
played the "tiger," glvltiu him a shot
every time he jumped above the sur
face. Four shots ended his career.
DIES SHIELDING MURDERERS.
Cabinet Maker Itefuses in Tell
Who Attacked Him.
Michael Averno. a cabinet maker, who
liven wnn nis wiie uu luinuj in i?u
Humboldt street, Brooklyn, died In Belle.
vue Hospital last night of stab wounds
in the back and neck and a gunshot
wound In the liver. He refused to tell
who attacked him.
Averno was found unconscious nt First
avenue and Twenty-ninth street late Sat
urday night. Detective Dletsch wns un
able to find any one who saw the crime.
SYMPATHY FOR GUARDSMEN.
Army Offlcera .Not Surprised Over
Discontent at Border.
WAS.HINOTON, July 23. Tub Spn's re
port from Brownsville. Tex,, firinted to
day, saying 90 per cent, of the guards
men on the border were dissatisfied be.
cause they believed they wete belns
made pawns in th Administration's
diplomatic name, struck a responsive
chord In army c'rcle here,
"We are not mrinlsed," one nttlcer said
to-night, "hut If The t)UN correspondent I
now finds 90 ncr rent, of tho men nc
no men ..c-
llevlnst they, are being used for political
trurnoaes. what will be the percentane
iercentae a
few weeka hence? wo in tne nrmy sm
patlilze with 'em, God bless 'em! But we
are not responsible."
There Is a growing feeling In army cir
cles that the National Guard's continued
mobilization at the border is strangely
Incongruous with the Administration'
i..... ti.ii.ii, t.i-iiire. which Inill. -.lies
that the International crlslw hns long . 000 quintals less than Inst yenr. h or the
since raised. United States the wheat total Is estl
"And every mother's son of them." I mated nt 207,000,000 quintals, or 25 per
one ofllcer aald to-day, "Is beginning to cent, less than last year. For India,
feel like a boy told to o for u swim, but 7,000,000 qulntnls, or 1.1 per rent, under
cautioned to keep away from the water." Inst year. Italy, r.2,t'00,0(i0 quintals, or
, ji; jr cent, Increase over last year.
BEGINNING T0 MUSTER OUT. ; "lrqul
First of the Htate Mllltla In Leave
Federal Serlvre.
Han Dikoo, Oil.. July 23. The Fifth
and lClghth companies of Coast Artillery
Reserves, California National Guard,
were mustered out of Federal service to
day, They have had nearly a month s border
duty.
U. S. READY TO BUY
DANISH WEST INDIES
Xotfotintions for (he Purchase
for 5?.y)00,n)0 Are Nearly
Completed.
N'AsmvnTov, July 23. Negotiations
between the fnltid States and Denmark
looking to the purchase of the Danish
West Indies nre practically completed
and both (tuternments are now awaiting
an opportune moment for obtaining legis
lative netlon on n treaty embodying the
neal. t Is tindei stood that the price
wlilcli this Government proposes to pay
Is approximately 15,000.000.
The object of obtaining the three Isl
ands U primarily the establishment of a
coaling a,t cable station at St. Thomas,
incidentally American capital and
Amerl-nn enterprise will be used to
build up the Islands, which have fallen
Into dire financial straits and become a
buiden to Denmark.
The strategic Importance of the Isl
nnds for the Cnlted States I, the elimina
tion of the possibility of some Kuropean
I ower taking them off Denmtrk's hands
mid thelchi- having
lMe In clo-e proximity to the Panama
l.mnl. The Interest of (icrmany, or
. ii.in spenaing companies, to be exact,
In this pro'prctlvp purchase has Inter
fered with previous efforts made by the
I lilted State to acquire possession of
them.
Thl Government has long considered
the wl.dnm of acquiring the Danish
est Indies liccim... ,.r ii-- ...n..,.
harbor facilities nnd the added fact I
that they lie along Important trade I
mute,, tn South Ameilca. Grant hail the I
propose, ror consideration during his
Administration, after which U was
diopped and remained dormant until
former Secretary of State Knox resur
rected It ,t the Instigation of Informal
Inquiries from Denmark.
The present Administration began
sounding out the Dat.i.h Government
with leference to the plnn nearly h year
ago, and negotiations proceeded smooth
ly until the Danish legislature went up
in arms ngninst the phin early this ye.ir.
In diplomatic circles It has been
hinted that German Influence wns behind
the oppisltlon In Denmark, but whatever
the reason, this opposition was sultlclent
to cause the project to be dropped tem
porarily by both Governments.
Now conditions appear to have
changed and word has reached the State
Dc-p.it tinent that the people of Denmark
aie inclined to look more favorably on
the plan. It is said that Germany's op
M)sltlon has disappeared.
Conditions have become very bad there,
and there Is no longer any market for
the natlte products, and the llnnds ar
ti, htneer n snllire of revenue. Den
mark I, therefore confronted with th.
alternative of extending financial aid
and golur; to cons'dernble expense
. . .,..,... .
inwaro improving conuuions or iicciu-
lnc the offer of the L'nlted Stntes to tske
the Islands off her hands,
The present Administration here, al
thoum, , piling principle the acquis!-
((nil ii f frtr. .! tatffltnt-. tAfllMI Tl' in
pnu thal advantages to he derlve.l from
iIim iir,ui,.-l The I'.iti.inn C.iunl has
nr.nK- ..n h.i Ii..il th HIMtMllr llltvittl-
tagec which the l'nlted States woiud de
rive front a naval It-aye or coiling sta
tion ,-it St Thomas, anil has emphasized
the impoitance of preventing any F.uto
peau Power fio-n acquiring It.
PENN. R. R. SETS NEW RECORD.
l I
Carried -t.Vt,t.V.-MIH Pnssenaera
. I Venrsi Without Fatality
In the first sl -vmntha of this year
:i;,3S0.1M passenger hnve been carried
by the Pennsylvania Ra.lroad system !
without the loss of i olngle life In a
train accident, the company announced'
yesferilty. This completes two and a I
linir year miring wmcn no passenger
has been killed by a train wreck
According to the statistician of the
iiillro.nl. in that time s.-.3,!i:.2.2!s paa-
!-ngi rs hao been carried In more than
-..noo.imn train for a total distance of
nvii- tin billions or miles, or 4nii,o(iii
times aioiincl tne wuint, liuring tne.,nU,r Virginia Capes to-day were
same time upward of 3, .100, 000 freight 1 nn( (rne nut.
trains hue been operated over the rhore was unusual activity on the
I'.'.oon miles of line and 2'i,ooo miles of
track composing the Pennsylvania sys
tem. YACHT PARTY 7 HOURS ADRIFT.
I '
' ... . ii , j
-enr llrenkera In Sninll Tender
When I'm ft tioes on liar.
Poi!T.MofTlt, N. I ., July 23. Two
men and two women tossed for seven
hours In a small tender Just outside the
breakers on Bye Beach In the fog and
strong east wind last night after aban
doning the motot yacht Sehura, which
hid grounded on Walll. Sands. The
party ronsbted of Mr. and Mrs, .1 II,
Wllklns of Baltimore, Miss Cherry Head
o: BrooMlne, Mass., and ('. H. Conway
of Lynn, Mass,
A volunteer crew from the Wallls
Sands const guard station got them
ashore at dawn,
The Sehura, a .13 foot boat, left the
Wllklns summer homo at Marhlehead
yesterday and drifted onto a bar when
the rudder broke.
WORLD'S CROPS SMALLER.
ItuI) Only Allied Antlnti MIi.mvIiik
Increase In Wheat Output.
Romi:, July 23. The latent report of
, , , . , . ,
, ' "' " , ' -
'""".""T . .... .... . . ' . . .. '
' will be less abundant thnu Inst, but that
harvest prospects nre belter than thn
nverage In tho five year period, 1909
1013, The estltnnte of the total whent crop
this year for the seven most Important
countries Is 39.rnn,ono quintals (a
fiiilntal equal. 220.40 pounds), or . . . 34 .-
the preceding live year periou. Tne
harvests of Tunis and Japan are estl
mated at less than last year. Hstlmatea
for Germany nnd Auslro.Germnny were
not obtainable.
Barley prospects nre everywhere
poorer than lust year, the Institute esti
mates, as are also those for oats and
rve. The estimate of the Brazilian coffee
crop In slightly under last year,
FORT BLAZING, GERMANS ARE
SLAIN BY THEIR COMMANDER
Dying Bavarian Officer Tells Story of Awful Fate of
Small Garrison of Somme Work Set Afire
by French Shells.
Pants, July 23 In the destruction of
a German fortified work on the Somme
front there occurred a tragic epuude,
says La lAberte. The order was given
to destroy the fort at whatever o.st. In
less than six hours more tlinn 2,500
great shells were fired at It nnd the de
fends gave way one by one In a cloud
of dust nnd smoke. The Infantry then
went forward and the Herman positions
were captured.
French artillery officers examining the
ruins discovered in a mass of debris a
Bavarian oftlcer at the point of dentil.
At the approach of the otllcera the Ita
varlan seemed to collect hlmelf nnd
began to apeak softly, tlio Frenchmen
kneeling about him.
The story' told by the Bavarian and
later recounted by a French artillery of
ficer was that thirty-two men had oc
cupied the fort. After the bombardment
had continued for a time half of the men
were victims of an awful death. Two
DEUTSCHLAND AWAITS
ARRIVAL OF BREMEN
Helief That Sister Submarine ,
Cargo Currier Will Jleach
America n Port To-day.
Baltimore, July 2.1. It was stated
to-night that the submarine Deutseh
land has on board H.000,000 In gold,
probably taken from the Interned North
German Lloyd liner Kronprinzassln
Cecllle, and dlttlculty In getting Insur
ance Ik responsible for the delay tn the
submarine's departure. This gold. It is
said, was put aboard In small sacks on
Thursday. This will account for the
unusual precautions taken that day to
watch the stevedores.
Capt. Koenlg has told close friends
that he will not sail until the Bremen,
sister ship of the Deutschland, Is safe
In American water. This vessel was
expected to-day.
Capt. Koenlg's statement that he will
not leave until he hears from the Bremen
Is taken na significant. Should any
thing befall the Bremen nnd result in,
her not er wrt n . .hi, shl.- of
the Atlantic the Deutsohl.ind. t Is sail.
-A-iii iinom nr I mil- ivnrruif i.s ii.il i
, : - . , tt
going to take any chance of losing his .
ill'l 1 'II I J "I HiT W -!'- U His-
' ,' V." " . l"' hV,. I
. si . . n .m
" .sin.ti -i
"enla of the K it. ' ' ,
Jo.
the
ubmeislble rocks lazily on the
murky waters of the Patapsco are secret
service agents representing Kng'.and.
France and Uussla
I Capt Koenlg, Fltst flfflVer Krapohl
and Second (Ullcer llyrlng were the
' guests last night of the Rev. Julius
I Hoffman of .Ion church at his home.
This morning Pastor Hoffman conducted
farewell services for the Deutschl.tnd's
officers and ctew on boatd the Neckar.
Ills topic was "Sacrificing One's Life,"
and he praled the self-sacrificing spirit
m men tne omcers anu crew in me
submarine started out on tneir perilous
trip across the Atlantic.
WARSHIPS CLOSE IN.
... vrueli l.-nvlnir rhe.nneake.
nn Are United.
Norkoi.k. Va.. July 2.1. Piedlctlons
from Herman sources that the German
meChant submarine Bremen, MMer ship
to ,,)c tvutehland, would attempt to
part of the allied warships maintaining
a guard to prevent either the Bremen
entering or the Deutschland leaving. At
daylight this morning a ureat fout
1 s,n''ke'1 'M1' apparently of the Flench
I navy, was close to the three mile limit.
As trading vessels begnn to move out of
,. ,,,,, h. .,,,1111 n llf
them from friendly nations. Several
times small boats were put off the war
ship and sent over to the hutted vessels.
U BOAT FIRES ON DANISH SHIP.
Samane la Towed tn Tj liemouth
Crew Sated.
IjOniion', July S3,--According to a
Lloyd's despatch front Tynemouth the
Danish motor ship Samsoe has been
towed to that port In a wateilogged con
dltlon after having been shelled by a
German submarine. The crew was
saved.
The Norwegian sailing vessel Bats and
the Swedish sailing vessels Juno nnd
Ida, according to Lloyd's advices, have
been set on flro and aro lit a sinking
condition.
WENDELL'S SON LICKED BULLY.
Ilmlon Mother 1 1 Del liny Tnnulit In
I'ae Hla Flats.
Boston, July 23. A Boston mother, a
tending figure In feminine activities, hns
sent her boy to a boxing Instructor to
learn to protect himself against a bully.
Tho son was taught to use h's flhis,
The next time the bully molesu-d this
boy he met scientific, reslstanco which
made him let the vouth alone.
Tho mother Is Mrs llnrrctt Wendell,
president nf the Special Aid Sncletv Her
husband Is Prof, Wendell of tho depart
ment of Kngllsh at Harvard.
"I would advocate the sime teaching
for the girls," said Mrs. Wendell, "Proh.
ably some Jlu Jit h u might answer,"
Will lie Vlsconnt Grey.
I.ONPON, July 23 Fur "personal and
family reasons" Kir Kdward Grey, the
British Foreign Secretary, who recently
was created an carl, has received the
royal permission to take tho title of vis
count Instead of earl, under tho stylo
Viscount Qrcy of Fallodon. It Is sup
posed the Foreign Secretary wished to
avoid being confused with Karl Grey,
former aovernor-acnernl of Canada,
were decapitated and of threo others,
near whom a shell exploded, not & ves
tige remained. The survivor crouched
at the bottom of the subterranean shel
ters arid awaited their fate.
Another terrltlc explosion occurred,
the men being thrown together In a
confused heap. Almost Immediately
flames shot up from the underground
cavern. There wna a moment of Inde
ncrlbable terror, for now fire wai rav
aging the work. The lieutenant In com
mand went mad nnd shouted wildly at
Imaginary enemies. Then In the sinister
gturc of the flames the ofllcer set fu
riously upon hla men, killing one after
another, nnd was himself burned to
death.
The Bavarian determined not to die
by the hand of his chief and scaled the
ruins, clinging to a slope of the work,
only to be burlrd under a block of stone.
The French officers tooK him to a hos
pital, where he soon died.
GERMAN SAYS DEATH
RAGES THROUGH ARMY
"Vossiehe Zoituiifr" Corre
spondent in West Admits
Appalling Losses.
Special Curretpontfesce to Tils Sc.v.
RoTTr.RPsM. via Iindon. July 23.
Max fisborn, special correspondent of
the 1'oaalsrae zeininp, writing from
German Meld headquarters In the west,
makes significant admissions as to the
heavier German looses nnd the decisive
Importance of the present struggle. He
says among other things:
"After two years of war the angel of
destruction la passing through the.
ranks of the German army with a fury
and mercllessness w If the death dance
of battles had just begun. We feel, as
two years ago, the raging storm of the
enemies' united power. It Is now a
question of life or death for our nation.
Tile root of this war Is the dee.p mean-
""7,
, ; , J w,tho tr?l7iT t"" destroy U.
r.rm.vf, ,isln nower has shown.
n.ss of human nature, which cannot
- - . ...
"ow ''' l0tr?.xn"1
Htruftlun. We Mnml 1.frrrntly now as
ctuiiii.i rpi v ii n j iiciiwt. i i . i.nfi
..mp l deeds lie between, but stlli the
ji.. .. . . , . . ...
and everything Is In the balance of life
iur """
Lose 1 20,000 Mm In Tarn Werki.
Ixinpov, July 23. Copies of German
casualty lists received In London tell a
terrible story. Such tables of killed and
wounded have seldom been published
during the war. Column nfter column
of companies, battalions and regiments
which have been nil hut annihilated ap
pears in the lists.
One list for two days gives lB.OOO
casualties. It may he assumed that the
Kaiser's army between July I and July
1.1 lost close upon 120,000 men.
FINDS MOVIES IMMORAL.
Ilr. Fitch, Andover Head, Say
They Are Not True to Life.
The Bev, Albert Parker Fitch, presi
dent of Andover Theological Seminary,
( terl.in Church yesterday that the
said in his sermon at the Brick Presby
movies" are Immoral because they aie
not true to life. He criticised especially
"the vicious nnd false manner In which
they porttay their characters.
"If you take a play that does not
portray the fncts of life ns they are,"
said Dr. Fitch, "though the play Is
scented with lavender It Is Immoral.
but every play that deals with tilings
as they appear In actual life, although
It may outrage every canon of good
taste, Is a moral piny,
"How many times have I had to of.
tlclate at a so-called Christian funeral
when I heard the chorus ulna- of the
dead person's drifting off somewhere to
nil island The singing of the chorus
has seemed like a religious Jcllvflsh
trying to gloss over the hard hours of
the bereaved. We sentimentalize too
much In life."
GIRL TRIES TO BLOCK ARRESTS.
Nlla on Car Track I'ntll Poller
Dran Her Off.
After James Fahey, n machinist, of
S2.1 St. Ann's avenue, The Bronx, nnd
Francis Jenkins, an ammunition in
spector, of r.0 Kast 163d street. The
Bronx, had been arrested last night on
a Clnson Point car, charged with dis
orderly conduct, Jennie Fahey, 2-1, sister
of the prisoner, sat down on the track In
fiont of another car to which the pris
oners were taken, and refused to budge,
Patrolmen O'Dull and Sullivan of In
spector Walsh's stuff, who made tho
arrest, hauled the young woman off the
track and lodged a charge of disorderly
conduct against her, too,
GIBBONS INDORSES TRAINING.
"Order the Flrat Law of Heaven,"
Says Cardinal on Birthday.
Baltimore, July 23.- Cardinal Gib
bons to-day marked his eighty-second
birthday, spent at Union Mills, Carroll
county, by declaring for universal mili
tary training as the best possible thing
for Ameilca.
He was In fine spirits and excellent
hen ,th and expressed the opinion that
military training would safeguatd the
notion keep It at peace with the world,
upbuild Its manhood nnd fuse its many
foreign strains Into one patriotic people,
Transport Brlnsra Befaarrra,
Veha Ciit'z. July 23. The Unltod
States transport Hancock snlled from
Tnmplco to-day with seventy-three
Americans on board.
BRITISH EXPLAIN 2
D.S. MAIL SEIZURES
Memorandum to Washington
Government Made Public
in London.
London, July 21. The Foreign Office
has published the text of the note
handed to the American Ambassador
replying to certain American complaints
against the British censorship of malls.
The reply Is confined to the few specific
alienations made In the recent American
note. It Is stated that the formal
answer to the general arguments ad
vanced b'y the Washington Government
Is still under consideration by the allied
Governments, and will receive reply In
due course.
The two principal cases referred to
In the present memorandum nre those
of the MacNIff Horticultural Companyof
New York, and the Standard Under
ground Cable Company of Pittsburg. The
MacNIff company complained of tho
lo.ss of perishable goods owing to the
detention by the censor of shipping
documents relating thereto.
The Biltlsh Government states that
so soon as the matter was brought to
its attention It arrntiged to have u spe
cial mall Iwg for shipping papets, which
would lie Immediately censored, so that
no delay would occur.
Surprised by It. M. Insinuation.
In the case of the cable company It
Is stated that "the Government of the
United States appeared to Insinuate" thut
the delay In the mall of the cable com
pany wns directly connected with the
fact "that a British competitor had ob
tained a contract for which that com
pany had been tendering."
"His Majesty's Government," the note
continues, "Is astonished that such an
Insinuation should be made, especially
as the complaint from the cnblc company
appears not to have been adequately ex
amined," The memorandum goes on to show In
considerable detail that tehders for con
tracts referred to must have passed be-
tweeu the United States and Norway on
a date prior to that upon which the cen
sorship of Scandinavian marts began.
After detailing other cases, the note
continues :
'The specific complaint do not sup
port the general charge against the ef
ficiency of the British censorship.
His Majesty s Government will always be
ready to explain In detail the working
of the censorship, as there Is nothing re
garding it which they wish to conceal.
"Many complaints, when examined,
proved to urise from badly directed let
ters, the Irregular snlllng of neutral mall
boats and other causes entirely outside
tho control of his Majesty's Govern
ernment, and are often due to the action
of the enemies."
Memorandum of 1,4011 Wnrda.
Wabhis-otov. July 23. Great Brit
ain's memorandum legaidlng mall seiz
ures was received at the State Depart
ment to-day and will be delivered to
acting Secretary Polk to-morrow. Of
flclals of the department had not rend It
to-night, but It was undi rstood to deal
only with specific complaints, avoiding
discussion of the principles at issue be
tween the iwi Governments.
It has been Indicated thnt nothing
short of a readjusfment of the censor
ship of neutral malls on the principles
for which tho United States has eon
tended would he accepted as satisfac
tory. The note, about llnn words long,
waa transmitted by Ambassador Page at
London nnd had been submitted to Paris
for npprovnl of the French Government.
GERMAN PEACE PLAN GROWS.
Von Wedel's Hoclet to llnve .Nrlla
Aicency'a Help.
Lonpov, July 23, A Renter despatch
fiom Amsterdam says:
ill siiiiPit-i uaiii sajr.
A news agency called the PeuWche
Nachrlchten Verkehrs Gesellschaft has
been founded in Berlin. Its apparent
object Is the dlr.enilnntlori of news for
the Herman Peace Committee under
Prince Charles von Wedel."
Prince von Wedel Is president of the
German National Committee for an
Honorable Peace, tecently organized,
which, according to a Berlin despatch
on July II', has drafted an address to
the lountry calling for the support of
the Imperial Chancellor, Dr von Both-inann-Hollweg,
and the Influencing of
puh'lc opinion In tho dliectlon of moder
ate peace alms.
SHELL KILLED 5 IN REDOUBT.
Wounded Meutenanl Here Say
Party Wm Broken I'p.
Lieut. Alexander Tod. who has been
fighting on the western front In Fiance,
at rived yesterday on the American liner
St. Paul, and is on his way to visit his
patents, who tecently removed from ling,
laud to Canada,
He Is recuperating from four wounds
Inflicted by shrapnel that killed all ex
cept three of his eight comrades in a
redoubt. The eight were smoking and
chatting- when a German searchlight,
boring through the night, picked them
out.
Almost simultaneously n shell burst In
the ttnnch, killing Instantly live of the
gay little party and badly wounding the
rest,
TWO BRITISH VESSELS SUNK.
Crews nf the Muiiuweu and Knnta
fnrd Nnveri.
IiONpon. July 21. Lloyd's announces announced to-da.v, has decided to des-I
that tho lirltlsh steamer. Llongw en and I patcli a vessel from Itnglnnd for this1
Knutsford linvu been sunk, The crews purpose a soon a she is titled out, no
of both vessels wire saved. I suitable wooden vessel being available
I at anv South American port
The Llongwen was a vessel of ,(1S3 "The Governor and Companv or Ad
ieus, She was built III llin7 and was i venturers of Cnglnud Trading Into Hud
owned In Cardiff. She was last lepoi led ,, imv hns gratuitously placed Its
ns having arrived In Naples June 27'esol, 'Discovery, especially hull! for
from Barry, Antarctic exploration, nt the disposal
The Knutsford sailed from Cardiff of the Admiralty Lieiitennnt.Ooinin in
.lune 7 for Marseilles, iirrlv lug thero the ,ier Jntues F.ilrweather will loinniand
19th. She was a vessel nf 3, 1 Si' tons, t. vessel, now titling out at the
und was owned In M.incheslrr. . nevnnpmt dockyaril.
jAustrians Fall Back to Main
Jtidgc and Mass for
Last Stand.
HELD OX THE ST0KH0D
Utissians Unable to Cross
liiver 25 3IIles Northeast
of Hovel.
IONDos-, July 23. Austro-IIungary's
northern army which forms the right
wing of the Teuton battle front In the
Host has been forced to retire toward
the main rldgc of the Carpathians. It
Is expected to make a last stand there
before the steadily advancing left wing
of Gen. BrusllofTn Invading nrmy. The
Austrian War Ofllce admitted to-night
the withdrawal of the force from south
east of Tatarow, In the foothills of the
Carpathians, towards the mnln ridge.
A battle on n gigantic scale Is looked
for when the Russians come In contact
with the Austro-IIungarlans. who arc
expected to defend every Inch of ground
before allowing the Muscovites to force
the passes and pour Into the Hungarian
plain
The Husslans aro advancing on the
road from Delatyn to Maramaros-Szlget.
Petrograd says Ave officers, Including a
battalion commander, and 1S3 men were
captured In the region of Tatarow, which
lies a few miles northeast of the Tar-
taren Pass. In this pass and In the
hilly country that surrounds It, the
defenders are now massing for a stand
ftrrmnn Attaeka Futile.
The Germans made two counter at
tacks yesterday, one nround Smorgon,
east of Vllna, nnd the other on the
Stokhod Both were beaten off, ac
cording to the Russian olllclal state
ment. The assault on the Stokhod was
made In the region of ZaeneJ-Bereznlca,
''..."l "(
the river. This shows that in this re
gion the Russians have not yet been able
to cross the Stokhod.
With regnrd to the Russian offensive
against Field Marshal von Hlndenburg'a
lines around Riga and Dwlnsk. which
was opened a few days ago. the Rus-
slan olllclal statement merely says that
-in me mga positions there has been an
Intense artillery duel."
Petrograd reports further Important
progress In the Caucasus by the army
of the Grand Duke Nicholas along the
Black Sea littoral. Two more towns.
Klalklt-Chevtlik and Foil, were captured
and the Russians pushed on a consider
able distance south of the latter point.
They nre now In complete possession of
tne road leaning from Treblzond to
Krzlngen. and In the region of the latter'
clty they have crossed the western . n , . ., . .,
F.uphrates. Large Turkish force were A'rilln? " a reliable estimate, the
engaged by the Russians In the Mosul I,"ll?h ,rtmI 'nei t.-'ether have cap
region. lured since July 1 more than 26,000
Patrol fighting with Kurds "In the
direction of Bagdad also is repored In
the Russian night olllclal report.
lllndenburit'a Line Broken.
Meanwhile the Interest of military
critics Is centred chiefly upon the prog
ress of the new Russian offensive against
Field Marshal von Hlndenburg's lines on
the lllg-i-Dwlnsk. Una front, where Gen,
Kurop.itkln's forces are concentrating
their utmost efforts to break through.
An nnnlllt-i.il report from Petrograd to
night says the Teuton lines already have
been penetrated on a front of five miles.
-letalls are scarce ns to the further
progress of the Russian nrmy under Gen.
Si ithn.-iO uhli.li In 1,a I..b. .1....-
has pushed beyond the Styr-I.lpa line to
within a few miles of the Gallcian bor
der, nround the town of Berestechk.
The capture of this town has not yet
been olllcl.illy announced, nor has tiiy
olllclal announcement been made that
the Gallcian frontier has been crossed,
but the next forty-eight hours nre ex
pected to bring a Russian Invasion of
the crownlnnd tow-aril Brody and Lent
berg, the Gallcian capital.
A Renter despatch from Petrograd
to-ulght put tlie losses suffered by Gen.
..Hi . .Kirn II,.-,. - ...til,, ijn- illlll
l.lpa at .io.imio men out or three army I :,i n-us lot-i i i moum h-muiu,
coips, which would mean that the Ger
man General Ins lost pearly one-half iilrnlliiii Win Vlllnw.
of his effectives, an nrmy corps com-1 , itcutei de--patch from the British
pricing io.ouu men. ruese losses, tne
i , : , , ,, - , , '
despatch say, were Indicted on the Ten-
...... ... .... ...... ....
Include those suffered In the initial
phases of the Russian offensive,
The Gorman War Ofllce In Its state
ment to-day asserts that the curtain
of tlte from Field Marshal von Hlnden
burg's guns to the southeast of Biga
frustrated a Russian attack last night.
Regarding the operations on the north
eastern border of Gallc -, It Is stated
that Russian attempts tn cross the Styr
southwest of Berestechk (two and one
h. If miles from the Gallcian frontier)
were prevented by German batteries,
SIR HENRY DRAYTON COMING.
Will DUcusa t'niindlaii Hallway
Sltlintlon With N. Y. Central Head.
Ottawa, July 23. Sir Henry Drayton,
chairman of the Canadian Railway
Couimleslon, left to-day fir New York
to discuss with A II Smith, president
nf the New York Central Ballrond, the
detail "f the Investigation of the Cana-i ., H (ir,.H, hhiI.Ii mio.-U.
illiiu railway situation,
The task Invdves the finding of a' Were Fruitless,
solution of the problem for the c.ma- iir.ru r; via Loiulnii, .lulv 23 I l.-.i -dlan
Government, Sir George Palsh, the . 1 1 -a -K b'v the British along the Snir.m
third commissioner. Is expected soon frnnt on the line running fiom Thlepvnl
from London I tn Gulllemont have been frintli-s desptt-
' heavy losses among the lirue number of
BRITD3H TO AID SHACKLET0N. men employed, the War "Mbe ai.noun ed
, to-day
(iov eminent Dee-Ides tn fiend
Ont
Belief Xhlp Discovery.
IOSpoN. July 23 in view of tho pos.
plblllty of tin- failure of the third tit-1
tempt now being cntrled out by Sir Kr-
pest Shiickleton tn rescue twenty-two j
men of his Antarctic exploration party I
left on I'.lephaut Island, In the South
Sliellands, and at his most urgent re
Mti.st. the Government. It was nfflohillv
TAKE POZIERES
Xew Thrust on Seven 3Iilo
Front Makes Wig Ciniu on
Ilapamne Komi. .-
BATTLE ItAGIXG AT
END OF SECOND DAY
Germans Make Desperate
Efforts to Stem Drive by
Counter Attacks.
COLONIAL TROOPS
WIN BIO VICTORY
Anzac Corps Fights Its
Way Into Village Strong,
ly Held by Teutons.
London, .Inly 23. A now attack on
the Homme line wns begun by the
British shortly before midnight Satur
day along a seven mile front running
from Thlepvnl, through the villages of
Pozlvrcs and Lnngiteval, iih far as
Gulllcmont, which is Just north of
Tronra woods.
(Jen. Hulg's infantry captured the
outer works of Pozleres. Longueval
also w.xs taken, but tho Germans In a
I heavy counter attack regained the
northern end of the village. Darin
Sunday the outskirts of (lulllrmont
twice, changed hands. The lighting,
which is described as being of Intenso
violence, continues late to-nlfrht from
,, , , (, , .
1 ' zlcres xo l""r"if,n'-
Australian In Pualerea.
The Germans fought with their ut
most strength to prevent the British
from advancing to their third line po
sitions, but when the last reports left
headquarters In France the Australians
had firmly established themselves In Po
zleres, and are reported to have placed
thcnihelves astride the road in the di-
ff"0" of '""" 'e I!rl" ''J-
I l'r soncr. u Kunn nui nun..rcci.s or ma
chlno guns.
The fact that Gen llalg line, been able
to resume the nffeiis've so soon after the
unsuccessful German counter utt.uks of
las week, In whlih ery sttonvt German
forces were brought forward. Is resarded
as a good niMUry.
t'onntrr Attack Fall.
Tile German counter ntt.it ks dtlivrtcd
recently against the Flench front have
proved equally unsucct-Ksfiil, and tlm Al
lies nre now MghlliK slowly in the di
rection of Comble. which Is only two
miles ftotn Gullletnont.
Berlin Is nt variance with the llrltlsh
olllclal communication, declaring that
i alo,llr ,M0 ntne line the attacks of tlv
British were fruitless and that they suf
fered heavy casualties, Around l'nzbres
and the I'oureauv W oil the comb Hunts
came tn gtlp. in hand to hand fighting.
South f the S.iuiuie Sunday was rel
atlvely calm, following strong attacks
Saturday night against the French near
Soyecourt, which Pari assert broke
down under the French lire The Ger
mans In the Veidun sector, according P
Berlin, have gained some ground south
of D-.imloup. Considerable huivy hi-
tlllery activity ha lee- In pi ogres at
i - -- -- - y
., ierm.. w,Vs
. i i hi i i. .ii. r-....
J "Following a heavy bombaidment last
i nignt lillt.su iriiups, inciuuing tne
Anzac Corp, attaclod toward Pozlere
and Gullleuiotit Despite desperate re.
slstance the Auzacs succeeded In estab
lishing themselves lu Polen-s, wlieie
they are now consolidating their lines,
It Is n ported th.it the casualties vm im
comparatively light.
"West of Pozleres the British suc
cessfully advanced. On the right of
Pozleres the wire entanglements were
Itisiitllclently destroyed and progress was
consequently checked by heavy machine
,7Un tire, Nevertheless, we gained u
footing In Gulllemont, but owing to u
determined counter attack we were un
able to maintain the advance
"On the whole, our pingress continues
satisfactory, especlall. In the neighbor
hood of Pozleres and along the road
through the village northward, "ii which
we are reported ns established '
MINIMIZES GAIN. .
South of Guillemot I tne li.rman nrn
the. ked attempted ll-.lsh an i. ks. wli.is
eolith of the Somme I ipn.il n.iiu
bv tVe French faded
'South of Dnnibiup In the ird
region a gain or gnnind for the iei in s
is r ported
The Angio-l-'relii h .ill.o l.s along Hi
Sotiime fiont of July 19 and -'0 were
llliusiiiillv stubborn nnd were i.-pditcd
ten time's at nun points on the fro-it
,.f twenty-five miles The l-i piessiou
made on the Geipi.in side was Unit tlio
I'rcn. h and lim'sh weie ih-i. i ninii d I i
bieak through at whatever e-ost Tim
llutisli thiew inoiiulid fit v.ili agonist
ti Genitalis it l-'iiiiciius forest Trd
Iplsuili i I 'j- Ihi- t.i. tli i of Gen .luff1 -In
launching . .vnliy .upiinsi the tie.
Ill HIS III the S' ptembel ofl'i ns.v e i .un
iialiro Tile gH'IIUI gullied I" the Mil
Isb amount- in uln
tin.
c --pin ' e I,
IP I II -111
meters Tbi Flen
glove on u 1 vti
of th bat'
rnrrespondenls
