'FINANCIAL EDITION
iJltMtt
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenma
k
&
VOL. n. NO. 2G8
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, JULY 24, 1910.
Cot-imoni, 1010, bt mi Fcstto Ltrait Courint,
PRICE ONE OJMTO
BRITISH EXTEND
FRONT ON MAIN
BAPAUME ROAD
dfain New Ground in' High
Wood and at Guillemont
Village
WIN MOST OP'POZIERES
MotfS Forward Ono Milo Toward
Main Objective of
Drive
LONDON, July
More ground has been gained by tho Brit
ish In High Wood and at CJulllcmont, on
the, Sommo fronts tho .War Oftlco announced
In an official report Issued at noon.
Tho greater part of Poileres, which was
entered by tho Australians on Sunday, Is
now In possession of tho British.
Blxty prisoners and' two guns wcr'o cap
tured. The- War Ofllco statement, Issued at
noon, follows: .
Apart from continuous heavy shelling
by, both slder & night of comparative calm
foltow.ed'S'ester.day'n se ero lighting between
High Wood and Guillemont. Repeated counter-attacks
by the enemy were unsuccessful.
Heavy casualties were Inflicted on the
enemy by our artillery and machine guns.
. "Wo gained ground at High Wood and
In the direction of Guillemont. In tho
neighbourhood of Poxlorcs wo secured Im
portant advantages. In splto of tho stub
born defenso of the ehemya large portion
of the vltlago Is now In our hands. In tho
neighborhood we captuhed two guns and 60
prisoners."
Successful resumption of "General Halg's
massed Infantry "push" within tho short
space of threednys after tho Initial effort
had advanced'the British lines to within
striking distance of tho German third lino
trenches has brought great satisfaction In
London.
b
Special dispatches 'emphasized tho ter
rific hand-to-hand fighting raging around
Guillemont.
-'Tho latest advance reportpd In last
night's statement was along a, five-mllo
front. The furthermost point achieved was
at Fozlercs nearly a mile on tho main
highway to Bapaume", the Immediate ob
jective of tho thrust. Guillemont was ap
parently today the mostfjiotly contested
pot.
ARTILLERY DUELS ON S03IME,
LITTLE ACTION AT, VERDUN
REPORTED FROM PARIS
PARIS, July 24.
Bad weather has hindered operations on
that section of the Somme front, south of
Hardeeourt, where tho French arm(es are
operating. The War OfTlce, In Its official
communique today, stated that the, night
was calm. , ""
During the last ten days the French on
the Verdun front have captured 800 pris
oners. Artillery duels continue at various points
long the line.
Tho text of the official communique fol
lows: , , 't
On the Somme the night passed
quietly. The weather Is bad.
North of tho Alsne p.ur reconnolter
Ing parties penetrated enemy trenches
near- Vallly and brought back some
prisoners.
On the right bank of the Mouse In
tho course of a small action last night
on the outskirts of Chapelle Saint Fine
wo captured SO prisoners. According
to late reports, the total number of
prisoners taken by .us during the last
ten days In this sector exceeds 800.
Last night a German aeroplane
threw bombs upon Lunevllle. Ono
person was wounded. Sublieutenant
Chaput yesterday brought down his
eighth enemy aeroplane, which fell
near Fresnes-En-Woevre. A second
German machine, attacked at close
quarters, was brought down near Fort
Vaux. On the night of July 2 and
the day of July 23 our bombarding
aeroplanes threw eight shells on the
station at Conflans,, 40 on the barracks
'Contlnncd en IUn Tarte. Column Oh
THE WEATHER
,
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Baaed on a nolo discovery in tolar physics
by
Willi L. Moore and IV. F. Carother
Sunday, July 39, and Monday, July 31
The week toill open with showers and mod
erate temperature!,
Tuesday, Avouat J It will be fair and
generally warmer around Tuesday.
Wednesday, August I, (o Saturday,
August tr-Showere setting in Wednesday
tclll continue mora or less alftht week,
with slightly cooler temperatures,
Tail GENERAL WEATHER MOVE,
itE NTS DUE;
A cool movement la due to develop in
northwest Vnittd States July JO, t will
Is a moderate movement, preceded by well
distributed showers and bringing slightly
cooler temperatures in (he northern halt
of the country.
Another movement is due August .3, and
it will also be a moderate movement, pre
ceded by general showers, but with no mate
rial change in temperature,
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
Bfttled this afternoon generally cloudy
and continued warm and humid tonight
and Tuesday; gentle easterly winds.
VKSQTll "OF DAY.
Fua rl ... 4:l .m I
duo ut. . 7.21 P to. I Moon souths. T il A.m.
DELAWAHE BIVEB TIDB CltAXOKS. .
CHESTNUT STREET
to water 3.30 a ra. t Low water 4 01) b m
jltfb water Hra. Ulb water., tl.ij p J;
TUMfPlATlUE AT Kyil 1IQUK,.
bT 91 1U It! 121 II ':.'! J I 4 1 6
3l 741 'TdHoTTfrSorsat fa I r
LQaT AND FOUND "
bCOTCH TEKRIES tost. Suadar. 01 upper
WI4Wckoo, Scotch terrier, reward U re
luteal la TO Jl. Trotter, Tonreale. t.t
Xv tGL &
IByJrJEylf , BElll
SERGEANT T. W. BOWERS
On'c of tho six Philadelphia sol
diers injured when a column of
men was struck by n motorcycle
ridden by a dispatch carrier.
GUARDS INJURED
Bf MOTORCYCLE
'MUCH IMPROVED
x
Bowers and Medlin, Among
Philadelphians Hurt, Face
Hospital Siege
MEN GO TO NEW CAMP
The (empcrntcurc in the tents of the,
Philadelphia guardsmen at El Paso was
73 degrees at 8 o'clock (Philadelphia
time) today. At the same time the tem
perature in this city also was 73
degrees.
By CARL L. ZEISBERG
Evening Lcdoer Staff Correspondent
EL PASO, Tex., July 24. Tho first Phlla
delphla Infantry shift from Camp Pershing
to 'Camp Stewart was made today when
tho 3d Regiment, celebrating the comple
tion of Its first month In camp, packed, Its
"duds" In 22 mulo wagons and 12 motor
trucks and moved to the new camp.
With the closeof tho camp month this
regiment, under Colonel Kemp, achieved a
record that Is considered remarkable. Dur
ing that time not a contagious disease gf
any nature appeared In the ranks, nor will
any appear, to Judge by the almost ml
icroscoplc Inspection carried on by Major
Luburg. 'surgeon. The most appalling de
fect found among the 1000 men Is 76
teeth needing attention.
The 1st Regiment, which will move to
morrow, will have a band after all. De
termined not to depend on prlvato bands,
.which have a habit of staying at homo
when Johnny shoulders his rifle. Colonel
Allen canvassed the regiment and found 28
ien rlgKt In the ranks who can play some
sortof musical Instrument. Under, Drum
Major William B. Chapln, the volunteer
musicians will be molded Into a regimental
band. ' Instruments already have been
requisitioned.
.Reassuring word comes from the base
hospital at Fort Bliss on the condition of
Sergeant Thomas W. Bowers, of Company
Li Corporal James Medlin, of Company T,
nnd Private A. Franjc Morthorst, of Com
pany E, of the 1st Itegiment, who were run
down by one, of the regular army motor
cycles In 'front of the 3d Itegiment camp
while marching with their comrades to field
mass yesterday. MorthorsTs Injuries nrtf-
minor cuts on the hand and he will be
discharged, soon. A long team in the
hospital lies before Bowers and Medlin,
whose left legs were broken above the
ankle. Otherwise they are In excellent con
dition, and sv message to Major Waag'e, sur-
Continued on Fase Four. Column Three
ASQUITH MOVES LOAN
. BILL OF $252,000,000
Credit, Asked Brings Total Bor
rowing Since War Began
to $14,160,000,000
LONDON. July 24. A vote of credit for
J2,'252,000,000 was moved In the House of
Commons today by Premier Aequlth. This
brings the total credits this year up to
J6, 250,000, 000 and the total since the be
ginning of the war to about $14,180,000,009.
The Premier said that the total expendU
tures of the Government from April 1 up to
last Saturday were $2,795,000,000. The
treasury has In hand now about 1205,000,
000 In explaining the expenditures, Mr.
Asquith said that the war Is costing ap
proximately $2(1,000,000 a day. Ills recent
statement that $30,000,000 Is being spent
dally, the Premier explained, was meant to
Include all the expenditures of the Govern
ment both ordinary and extraordinary.
The Premier classified the expenditures
between the, first of April and ;ast Saturday
as follows:
Army and navy munitions, $1,895,000,000;
loans to England's allies. $785,000,000; food,
supplies and railways, $1)5,000,000.
hope the expenditure for the army and
navy does not exceed the present, rate,"
said Mr Asqulth. "Munitions have re
mained stationary at their highest level, but
expenditures for them may Increase."
Delaware Farmer Killed by Train
SEAFORP. Vth July 24. Warner Cep
pas, $7 years old a farmer, was struck and"
killed by a tralo near here His body was
found today by tho crew pf a freight train
ci tho telwar Railroad.
ARMIES OF CZAR
FIGHT ONCE MORE
. IN NORTH GALICIA
Dominate Both Banks of
Lipa, From the Styr to
Mirkow
BATTLE IN CARPATHIANS
Fierce Struggle Raging for Pos-
session of Passes Into
Hungary
rnTnooRAD, July 24.
Having thrown back the Teutons with a
series ofslcdgehammer blows, tho Russians
are now attacking tho Austro-Hungttrlan
positions defending the main rldgo of the
'Carpathfans In southern Qntlcla.
' There have been heavy rainstorms In .the'
Carpathians and tho mountain streams havo
'been turned to raging torrents, while the
roads have been transformed Into quagmires,
but tho combined resistance from both the
Austro-Hungarlan nr'mlfcs and tho obstacles
furnished 'by the elements havo failed to
Check tho steady advance of the Muscovites.
Heavy fighting Is In progress between
Klmpolung and Detatyn.
The forces of General Sakarhoff that
havo been operating In Volhynla aro be
lieved to havo crossed tho frontier Into
Galtcla.
At tho northern end of tho battle line
Goacral Kuropatkln'a army group is in
creasing Its pressure against tho German
armies of Field Marshal von Hlndcnburg
lying along the Dvlna River.
South of Riga, where tho Russians aro
credited with having rolled back the Ger
mans for n distance of flvo mites, violent
artillery duels aro reported In official ad
vices from tho front.
So fat tho censdr has veiled the exact
details of General Kuropatkln'a recent coup,
but tho fact that the Czar's troops have been
able successfully to pierce von Hlndcnburg's
line was hailed here as ono of tho most
striking achievements of tho war.
Further details todayascrvcd to accentuate
tho extent of tho victories of General Sak
haroft along the rivers Llpa and Styr,
Apparently his forces hao almost encircled
the Teutonic commands of Generals Boehm
Ermolll and Bothmer, forcing their Retire
ment. Russian troops now dominate both
banks of tho I.lpa from the StyrW) near
Mirkow, nnd. In some pata of the Imp have
thrust forward eight or ten miles beyond
the river. Brody Is menaced with an en
veloping moiement.
Southward ItUsajan forces control. many
of the approaches' to Jnbfonltza pass and'
have forced retirement of the Austrlans
to crests of the hills beyond. Probably iho
'conflict today Is in the pass Itself. Consid
erable booty has fallen Into the Russians,'
hands and In two days 27,000 men havo
been captured.
BERLIN.-July" 24. The following report
on tho operations on the east front was
Issued by the German War Office this after
noon: .
At the northern end of the.front and
along the line hetd btho troops of Gen-
era) on Bothmer, there have been no
events of Importance.
Northwest of Beresteczlse strong
Russian attacks were completely re
pulsed, a 4
MAYOR SMITH ENLIST
SLEUTH AS BODYGUARD
Detective Benz Will Act for Pres
ent Old Custom Is
Restored
THE MAYOR'S BObYGUARD
George J. Benz, an acting detective,
h83 leen assigned to the job.
i - '
Acting Detective George Bens, who ac
companied Mayor Smith through the. Ten
derloin on Saturday night, will act as his
body guard until further orders. "Whether
the Mayor fears an attack on account of his
Jmes'tlgatlon ot vice conditions could not
be learned.
Bens arrived at City Hall with the Mayor
this morning and accompanle4 him to his
ofnee door.
Asked It he really had a bodyguard, the
Mayor smiled and, looking at Hem, said,
"I have a defectle associated with me."
"Are you going to keep hm?"
"I don't think so," the Mayor replied
He declined to talk about Saturday
night's raid until he had seen his Directors
Whfn Mayor Smith took; office he dis
missed William Eberle, who was official
bodyguard for Mayor Blankenburg, and
remarked that he would be .able to take
care of himself, pberie wen back to street
duty, James Quirk, a previous bodyguard,
was selected to accompany the Liberty
Bell to the coast and later returned to re
sell duty.
The late Mayor Reyburn inaugurated'the
bodyguard Idea and selected McFadden for
that Important task Lattr Mayor Reyburn
succeeded; in having; McFaiJdeu elevated to a
captaincy.
Bern, the present bodyguard is a man
ot good physique He U a veteran of the
BpauUh-Amerlcan War. and saw service in
.the Philippine.
4iBaBLVrav I itmLLLLmsW
ssjMSMMfa-.ill.i-l.l i i i I.II..M
FRANCE-TO-RUSSIA
FLYER CAUGHT 60
MILES FRQM GOAL
Captured by Austrians in
Poland After Daring Trip
From Nancy
PASSES OVER BERLIN
KIPWN RqCKWELL
American nyjator from Atlanta.
who ha? brought down his third
German warplane in France.
. ,
.' PARJS, July 24.
A French nrmy aviator has flown across
Germany, dropping proclamations on the
city of Berlin. News of this world-astonlsh-ing
flight was given out officially today.
The airman. Sublieutenant A. Marchaly
was compelled to land within 60 mllei of
tho Russian lines, near Cholm, In Poland,
where he was mado n prisoner by the Aus
trlans. In tho course of his long fllgh the offi
cial announcement says. Aviator Marchal
covered about 1300 kilometers, or approxi
mately 806 miles on a straight line.
This was&the first time tho eastern and
western fronts have been linked by air,
but the real object of the flight was to show
the Germans that the Allies were able to
bombard Berlin, but refrained from doing
so for humanitarian reasons.
The following Is the report on the trans.
German flight: ,,
On June 2. at 9: JO o'clock In the
evening Sublieutenant A. Marchal
left Nancy, France, In a NIeuport
monoplane or special type, taking with
him provisions and oil to last It hours
His mission was to traverse all of Ger
many at n moderate altitude and to
drop proclamations on Berlin, afterward
continuing on to Russia. This auda
cious raid was accomplished point by
point. '
His mission accomplished, unfor
tunately the French airman, after hav-
Contlnned on Yaze Two, Column Thrte
POLICE PROBE DEATH
OF MAN ON EXCURSION
Steamboat Passenger, Stricken
on Way Home, Dies With
out Tellingr Story
Mystery surrounds the circumstances of
the death of Paul Vjje, 28'years old, 2620
South 12th street, an insurance collector,
who was taken from a boat returning from
Augustine Beach last night, suffering ap
parently from the effects of poison. Vile
died at 2 o'clock 'this morning In Pennsyl
vania Hospital, without being able to tell
whether the poison was given him or
whether he wante to end his life..
Vile went to Augustine Beach on a river
steamboat yesterday morning wjth Peter
Cottman, 2620 outh Camac, street, and
Thomas Clark, 12th street and Oregon ave
nue. He was taken HI on the boat return
ing In an automobile he was hastened
to Delaware- City, where he Was transferred
to the steamboat Lord Baltimore. A Penn-.
syhanla Hospital ambulance, met the Lord
Baltimore at the dock here.
Miss Htta Bayler,- 1812 Rltner street, a
trained nurse, was on the boat when Vile
first showed signs of sickness.
At fret she believed he was suffering
from heart trouble, but later said she be
lieved he roust have been poisoned. The
men with Vile said they did not see him
"take anything" and asserted that he- had
been In good humor all the time they were
with him.
Physicians at the Pennsylvania Hospital
jsald Vlle'S body became discolored soon,
after he was brought th$r. Before this
symptom showed (Ulf-they thought e was
suffering froijj. beart disease. Tliey now
uv he must have been pblsoned and will
hive'an autopsy performed, to determine
The Coroner and pollc also have been
tpld of the circumstances pf the death and
have started an lnytlgatlon.
QUICK NEWS
WARRANTS ISSUED FOR SUNDAY TRANSCRIPT MEN
William A, Gray, attorney for" Captain Nicholas J. Kenny, of
the Secorld Police Division, who is under suspension, and Policeman
John Bigger, of the 11th and Winter streets stfttlon at 8:30 OjClock
this afternoon, at the office of Magistrate Pennock, sworo out war
rants for tho arrest of J. P. Knigh, Jr., owner of the Sunday Tnyt
Bcript, and Samuel A. Dougherty, editor of the same paper, on charges
of crlmtnnl libel. ,
TWO CAMDEN BABIES KILLED BY HEAT
Two Camden babies died today from the heat. They wcro Harry
P. Pierce, 2 months old, of 318 Mickle street, and Anthony Beranl,
3 months old, of 325 Berkley street. Coroner Schroder issuea certifi
cates that death was due to natural causes.
BRITAIN TO PLACE SHELL ORDER IN U. S.
NEW YORK, July 24. It wa3 learned this Afternoon that the
British Government would place in this country within the next wcc"s
or 10 days orders for more than 2,000,000 sheila of various ateos.
Ono of tho large manufacturing companies will rccelvo a contract
within tho next 24 hours.
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
c
Plrst race, 2-year-olds, $500 addsd, 5 fuilongs Marie Odlle,
111, MCCahey, 8 to 5, 1 to 2,,out, wo; Bally, 111, Shilling Oto 6,
1 to 2, out, second; George C. Love. 110, Garner, 15 to 1, 4 to 1, 7 to h,
third. Time, 1:01 4-5. Dunga Din, Jack Carl and Matin also ran.
-GRAND DUKE CLOSES IN ON ERZINGAN
PETROGRAD, July 24. Grand Duke Nicholas' Russian armjt In Turkish
Armenia Is advancing upon Erzlngan, it Is stated In official dispatches from Tlftls
today. Tho Russians are only IB miles from tho Turkish city. i
,TEN DROWN AS MINE SINKS DUTCH SHIP
AMSTERDAM, July 24. Tho Dutch steamship Mnas, 1234 tons, was hlowji up
"by a. rhino near Nord Hinder Light In tho North Sea. today. Ten members of the
crow were drowned when the ship sank. '
PRESIDENT WILL SIGN $42,000,000 WATERWAY BILL
WASHINGTON, July 24. Despite his, strong opposition to some "now" projects
In tho measure, President Wilson wll sign tho rivers nndharbora bill appropriating
approximately 242.000,000. Tho President today discussed the legislation with Chair
man Sparltmnn, of the Houao committee, and indicated belief that such appropria
tions could bo so systematized as to eliminate pork and reduce futura appropria
tions. Ono Idea Is that flood control and rivers and harbors appropriations could
be co-ordinated.
SENATE COMMIT rEE FAVORABLE TO CLARKE AS JUDGE
WASHINGTON, July 24. The Senato Judiciary Committee reported unanimously
today for the confirmation of Judgo John H. Clarke as Justice of the Supreme Court
to succeed Justice Hughes.
SUFFRAGISTS APPEAL TO PRESIDENT'S "CHIVALRY"
WASHINGTON. July 24.-7Presldent Wilson's "southern chivalry" was appealed
to today by a. delegation of women suffragists. They suggested tho Democrats could
"pass tho buck" by reporting the Susan B. Anthony amendment, putting It up to
the Republican members to make good their protestations of friendship. The dele
gation wqa headed by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch.
GUARDSMEN AND EXCURSIONISTS IN WRECK; FOUR HURT
BAY CITY, Tex., July 24. Four Minnesota National Guardsmen were injured
when their troop train collided with a home-seekers' excursion train near here Sun
day, but none Is In a serious conditions, physicians Bald today. The wreck occurred
when tho troop train on the St. Louis, Brownsville nnd Mexico Railroad was caught
head on by tho homo seekers' train bound for Houston. -
BRITISH PATROL WARDS OFF U-BOAT ATTACK
THE HAGUB, July 24. British trawlers arriving nt Ymulden today Drought
word of a fight between two Gcrmun submarines nnd armed patrol boats in the
North Sea off the coast of Scotland. The submarines fired upon the patrol boats,
but the latter responded, driving tho underwater craft away.
CASEMENT DENIED RIGHT TO APPEAL TO PEERS
LONDON, July 24, Sir Roger Casement's request for permission to appeal to
the House of Lords from the verdict convicting him of high treason has been denied.
Official announcement to this effect was made today.
Premier Asqulth toda received art Irish petition praying that Casement's death
sentence be remitted. It la signed" by 6 bishops. 20 members of Parliament, SI
members of universities and members of learned bodies.
BRITAIN PROBING TIGRIS AND DARDANELLES CAMPAIGNS
LONDON, July 24v' Premier Asqulth in the House of Commons today Intro
duced a bill providing for commissions to Investigate the conduct of the Mesopo
tamlan and Dardanelles campaigns,
BULGAR RIOTERS DEMAND BREAD
SALONICA, July 24, Food riots are taking place m -Kavnla, Bulgaria, In
formation was received hero today that 7000 persons marched through the city cry
ing, "Give us bread."
CROWN PRINCE BRAVES DEATH IN VERDUN FLIGHT
AMSTERDAM, July 24 Braving the? perils of the French fllera and the Are
from high-angle guns, the German Crown Prince made a IS mlnuta flight over the
French lines at Verdun on Sundays "says a dispatch to the SaarbruecKe Zeltung,
It Is stated that there is much Opposition In Germany against the Crown Prince
thus risking his life. . '
-t , , ,
U. S. SHIP OUTPUT MAY EXCEED THAT OF REST OF WORLD
WASHINGTON, July 24. The United Stately for the first time In more than half
a centurvls not only building more merchant shipping than any other country, but
the American output for 19)$ probabl) will exceed that of all the rest of the world.
Tho total decline In the world's shipbuilding for 1914 and 191$, both cornpared with
J913, was J43S ships, of 2,?ll,373 gross tons.
GREY TAKES TITLE OF VISCOUNT INSTEAD OF EARL
LONDON. July 24. t"or "personal and family reasons' SI? Edward Qrey, tho
British Foreign Secretary, who recently was created an eari, has received royal
permission to take the title ot viscount Instead oi ear) under the style of Viscount
Grey pt Fallodon. The inference Is that the Foreign Secretarf1 took the lower dignity
to avoid the risk of being confused with Earl Gref, form Governor Geaeral of
Cunaia.
ALL GAMBLERS
MUST GO, SAYS
MAYOR SMITH
"Town ts Closed and They.
May as Well Get
Out'
VICE INQUIRY IS DELAYED
Jury Wjll BfeginTomorrow.
Warrant Threatehfcd for Editor
of Sunday vTranscript
Smith Warns Gamblers '
TttbfrRlfat Leave the City
TUT AYpit $MJpfH declares vice and
'- gamblingijnust go and that se
cret messages to the contrary should
bo discredited' '' '
Ho giVisflfhing that other move
ments to."apvb vice out of 'tho city
are congmpTatcd.
Captain , Kenny, ono of the sus
pended police officials, and Police
man Biggor,! of the 6th District,
promise to'havo warrants issued for
tho arrest 6f J. F. Knight. Jr., and
Samuel Ar poughcrty, editor and
publisher of tho Sunday Transcript,
charging criminal libel.
Superintendent Robinson, accused
of graft by tho same newspaper,
made no reply.
The Grarid' Jury will start its in
vestigation tf'lho vice situation to
morrow. ... , ,
oi i -
Posltho declarations that vice and gam
bling In all, forrns' would be driven from
the city, regardless of politics or any other
element, were made this afternoon by
Mayor Smith. He said the city was closed
and would remain so, and Issued a warn
ing that no section of the city would be
overlooked. The Mayor also said with
much emphasis that gamblers or vice pro
moters who received any word to the con
trary might as well disregard such tips at
once and get out of town.
Anqther Important development In the
situation was tho nctlon taken by Captain
of Police Nicholas J. Kenny and Policeman
John Blggar, of the 11th and Winter streets
station. v
They threatened to swear out warrants
fof J. F. Knlgfct, Jr. owner of the Sunday
Transcript, and Samuel A, Dougherty, edl-
tor andfpubllsher of tho m6 newspaper.
charging criminal libel. Tpo Transcript al
leged yesterday that Policeman Bigger col
lfccted in tho lenderloln for Captain Kenny,
while AI Farlow, another cop of that 21s
trict, collected regularly and acted dlrejay
for Superintendent of Police RoblnUn. The
superintendent has hot yet takcnany action.
He said he didn't care what Captain Kenny
did, that hey hadn't read the article, didn't
care to see It and would not take action.
Former District Attorney "William A.
Gray, counsel for Captain Kenny and Big
ger, who said he would obtain warrants for
Knight and Dougherty before Magistrate
Pennock, said he was also Instructed to
bring civil suit against both .defendants.
NEW ANGLD A SURPRISE.
This new angle on the situation came a
a complete surprise, as the attention of the
public was centered upon the action of the
Grand Jury, which was scheduled to start
Its lnestlgatlon today. The Jurymen do
not expect to reach the vice probe until
tomorrow. '
While the action taken by Captain Kenny
came as a surprise, the final stand of the
Mayor caused no end of comment
'The report that he received every three
months a list of gambling and disorderly
'houses, the Mayor said, was absolutely
false.
EXPLANATION OF RAip.
"The first three months of my adminis
tration," the - Mayor asserted, "were ab
solutely quiet, After that I heard rumors
and received some reports that gambling
houses and other places had opened. While
a lot has ibeen said about the raid of a
week mgo being confined to certain dl
trlcts, that Is easily explained. A social
worker first called my attention to condi
tions In the sectlpn raided. We went after
that section because we were.mora familiar
with conditions there.
"If any one tells gamblers to stay or If
they get wprd that they are safe they win,
be much mistaken. No such word will com
from me, I am Informed the town Is closed
and I Intend to keep It closed."
SMITH READY TO TESTIFY.
Asked If he would aid the Grand Jury In
its Investigation, the Mayor said: -
"If the Grand Jury summons the Mayor
I will lay. before it all the Information X
can obtain. I am not golngto discuss what
action I mean to take In the future, nor da
I mean to Judge the officers under suspen
sion before their hearing " V
The Mayor's attention was then called
to the wide-open conditions found on the
t ' i i ' -
Csntlnaed on face Two, Colon j yiur
MAYOR SIflNS PARKWAY IH,
Approves ?9,000,000 Appropriation for
Purchase ' of Properties Quick
Notice tq Owners Along Houte
Mayor Smith today signed the, bill ap
propriating S,Q0,00 for the acsvlsltiom ot
land and property along the Parkway Thbj
Is one of the final teP ln the Parkway
movement T ordinance to ppen tins un
opened, portions of tha Parkway has airway
been passed.
Immediately after signing tha bill tk
Mayor got into communication with th
law department, asking that quick; &CMo
bo takea jn drawlag up isptlcea t KPrty
owners along the Parkway tfci it V
rppM iHVif g montiu.
A!
f
