The. Famous Briggs
?See His Immilablc Cartoons on
I he T.-D. Sporting Page
$?icIjtnoni> STitnes -Bisiraf cl|
Sketches From Life
See Temple's Human Interest
T.-D. Pictures Daily
66th YEAR
VOLtMK AO
\r>iiiioit yor.
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, JULY 24, 1916. - l'KN PAGES
ffiEB ?CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Hope to Prevent Bremen
Entering or Deutschland
Leaving.
SOME CONCERN FOR SAFETY
OF SECOND SUBMARINE
v>i:; lit seers on Land and Sea Wit
ness Unusual Activity of
Ships on Guard.
< l.osr. T<> THKKK-MII.!-: I.IMIT
I i<?ig|n?.f jii italtimoio .May Attempt
!<? Leave via Cape Cliarlcs In
stcari of Cape Henry.
'?ItKOLK, VA.. July ~Z.? I'redic
' 'i:' from German i-'iiiivi'.i thai the
? w submersible Bremen, f-11 r- r ship
' ? th<- 1 .<cutK<*hl>in?l. wiiilO attempt to
' 'er t >i?? rapes near lore t?)-'Jay were
i"i? borne out. t<. the U< . ii ili.-a jipoint
?'om of allied \\.,| h.;i itc\v.< aii'l
t Mpht-peers tin land iikI sea. patliered
m Cape Honry ! !??}??? Mill is ?>x
'T' ' by f <nir.-'-> that .i< * tit at*? I v pre
dicted tlio corninp of the I >eut s.-hlatwl
'-v/1 wenJifi ago that the Bremen still
<??)'! appear .it an American port
v-tUnii a day or two, but obviously
Horn** ? onceru over h*'r whereabouts :s
' ?*int: felt
:-*l|: h t-seers were amply t<-1 ?; i i < I for
11" ?' I r visit to 1114- ripis, hy
\> :t tiov^im; ti,f. unusual :n-fiv|ty of tlio
:* 'l warships in maintalmiL.- a iruatd
' prevent either the Bremen from
? '<r ?? i; nr tin* I >eut s. hi a r d from lea v -
?' ??' Cvidentlv news that the Bremen
? expected n:?ht ri';n hod the
? Uif d ships almost as <| i .? k 1 >? as it
read along 11??* shore. and they w< ri*
'3 ii t y throughout the n:plu with
I -werful sear--hl ichts srannlnc eiery
f ft of the <ap< for th* '? ~ undersea
^ *.hi:\t rm it.vm |V miii1
? ?i.nsK 'r*? 'inii.r. mm-;
uyliplit this morning found the
J-re a t four-st ack ship, supposedly of
' ?*? Ire.;eh navy, hugging <dosely to
i 'e I ree-rnile limit. A f. w lmur:i
<' r her now could I seen going
: "Ui;h drills both on tin- decka and
tin superstructure Then, as the
?? leading vessels began to move out
th?- harbor, sl-.e bopan stopping all
them from friendly nations, and,
;? ppa rent 1 y, interropating their erews.
f-everal times small I.oats were put off
the warship and sent over to the
I alted vessels
? 'raft about which the warship en
?rtained suspicion, however, stood lit
' ? j'hnnees of drawing nearer An at
tempt to pet into communication with
? '?r during the afternoon from a tup
f.i;>d an<l " a used her to j.ij t further
? ijt to sea
1':. -t-hoat < rew also had a busy
r pht. Both Hie Virginia and Mar.v
.ind pilots kept their strong starch
cats working frequently in an effort
t pick up either the Bremen or the
Iieuts-hland No suspicious-looking
craft wns permitted cot o>j? of their
? ip.it until its identity had been es
?11 ' ? hed
l.i ort.i were ( urrent to-nipht that
???? I 'outschland plans to iome ?lown to
apes unaccompanied >?y a tup
has charts f.f all channels it Is
ii;if!er.-'tood. and with the aid of a
1 : ? to point near the Atlantic shores.
! to he ahje t<-? make h"r way out
' ? ifety
' m i rsniuMi m\v viti:mi>t
to \ k caim: < jiai<i.i:s
prowinp suspicion, gainer! from
l.i'n.- riailors along the <-apes had with
"us interested in the safe departure
o; the Deutschland, is that she may
attempt to leave via Cape Charles, in
stead of Cape Henry. It would be
impossible for her to submerge In these
waters, hut by this route she would
. ,\a a much heit?*r i har.ee to escape
ti.e warships than if she left through
the regular Capo llenry channel. Pass
ing through this channel, she might
? isiiv pass out to sea and submerge,
unobserved by the allied ships which
are paying particular attention to the
rape Henry entrance.
t.ol.lt lll(, I'AICT OK < AKCO
ON Till: I HO L'TSCll I, A M)
Hy niimiiii Itunvon.
I;.\LiTI.MOHE, MD? July 23.?All the
treasure ??f the Kronprinzessen T'ecile
i- tucked away aboard the little preen
undersea packet. the Deutschland.
They brought it down from Boston, '
where the Cecile is interned, one day
last week ?the dA> they pulled thoj
screen of old freight barges around I
the (torrnan submarine and took other |
precautions. In small bags, hy rail,'
she money came?$1,000,000 in gold?|
and It was trundled aboard the i
Deutschland and stored in secret com- '
partments. This is on the authority
of a man who knows.
Nameless he must be in the story j
hut lie knows. ' '
They claimed it was nickel they
? were putting on the submarine, didn't
they7" says tlie man. "Well, it was
good old gold. And the reason they
.ire not hurrying the Deutschland hack
t . cermany with that gold is because
they have not yet given up hope of
petting insurance."
"I guess that wouldn't be a grab fori
those war boats that are hanging
around outside the capes, eh?" b?
(jueried. "They've got rubber and some
nickel on that diver, all right, just
like they say, hut the richest part of
the cargo is the gold, and It's all
there?every penny of the four mil
lions."
Vet there, is still another story or
maybe It might he called a theory as
to the delay of the Deutschland that
differs materially from this tale of tho
(Continued"on" ThirdPageTj ~~
?
No Tangible Trace
of Bomb Planter
Several Stories Told Policc That
May Lead to Arrest of
Guilty Person.
SAN FRANCISCO. July 2.1.?A clay
spent Iti shadowing anarchist head
quarters and investigating rumors has
brought to the police to-night no tangi
ble trace of the culprit who yesterday
vented his feeling against national de
fense by timing a suit-case bomb and
leaving it on a crowded downtown
corner to explode and kill six and
wound more than twoseore spectators
and participants in San Kra nci<co*s
preparedness parade.
The death list to-day remained at
six, although Thomas II. Turnbull,
former manager of the Kamlly Club of
this city, who suffered a fractured skull,
lay at the Central Emergency Hospital
witli Imt little chance for recovery.
t ?f the score >>r more who were taken
to the hospital, all hut Turnl.ull had
been removed to their homes or other
hospitals to-day
An advertisement offering $1,^00,
which will be paid any way you want
? it for the tip that will secure the arrest
i and conviction of tlio parties responsi
ble for the bomb" was inserted in local
papers to-day by Hen K. Lamborne, of
Alameda, brother of 1. H Dainhorncy
one of the dead.
Several tales were told the police to
d?i\ that may lead to the arrest of
the guilty person or persons
M T f'endergast. ,,f Oakland, said
he saw two men leave a black suit
? ?ase at the scene of the explosion a
few minutes before the disaster. Me
j was within eight fo^t of the bomb.
I -Ml>' K ?' <"'ompton. or Chicago, who
; w.,s watching the parade from a hotel
window across the street from the fata!
i corner, said she saw a man on the ronf
' "f "ear-by building intently watching
the corner a few minutes before the
explosion.
PRIMARY IN MAINE TO-DAY
AroiiMccI b.v ? ontcat for
SrlrclltiK ( nndldnte (or Sfjit
In Senate.
' c-ai The Tlme.s-Dispatch]
I'' 'ItTljA.VD, JIB,, July 23.?To-mor
rows primary to select a candidate for
'he seat in the L"n 11oci States Senate
ha? failed create any enthusiasm
i.i tb'" State a: large. The Democrats
have no need of enthusiasm, for the
only aspirant on their side ?f the po
j Iltieal fence i.? Kennetii C. Mvseli, clean
of "iowdoin < c,liege. The Republican
contest i>< between ex-Governor TJort
M. Fernald, unci former Congressman
I-rank !?, <. i. ? ii? c-small vote i?
ex p.~ t. <1
I'ernald is a big favorite, but Guern
sey' s chances look good to many. The
geographical argument is in Guernsey's
favor, for he comes from the eastern
part of the State, which has gone shy
on honors for many years. I'ernald,
however, is better known, and, be
sides, has the advantage of having run
>'cond to Hale in the gubernatorial
in Imaries in June
The State ? election in September is
tiie thing at which all eyes are turn
el, and beginning next week, the State
will be covered with spellbinders of
both parties, who will urge the claims
of Hughes and Wilson, as well as those
of the lo.-al candidates.
GIBBONS 82 YEARS OLD
( iirillunl I'asHPM Diiv ((iiietl.r nt IIIn
Home*, Surrounded Ity KrleiiiU
of V en m* Standing.
'? ""! l" The Times-Dispatch J
BALTIMORE. .MR,, July 2.1.?James
! Cardinal Gibbons was eighty-two
years old to-day. lie passed the day
'?tiittly at his home, surrounded by
his friends of years' standing. N*o
others were at the annual dinner to
d iv in honor of the occasion, except
the rreir.bers of the family of Joseph
j Shrlver. the Cardinal s host, and two
or three members of the Catholic
clergy. In all. there were twenty
around the table when bread was bro
ken.
At the head of the table to the right
of Mr. Shriver, where Cardinal Gibbons
has sat for so many birthdays, there
were piled cables, telegrams and let
ters of congratulation from all parts
of the world.
ANOTHER DENIAL MADE
llerlln Snys Vellher Knitter \or Kron
lirln/. Wan Damaged In
JiiMiind llaltlc.
KKKLI.V (wireless via Sayville), July
23?The semiofficial Trans-Ocean
News Bureau to-day issued a .state
ment denying the British claim that
the German Dreadnoughts Kaiser and
Kronprlnz were sunk in the engage
ment off Jutland. British reports had
intimated that both ships were sunk
by torpedoes. The statement to-day is
a reiteration of former denials.
"it is absolutely untrue that the
Dreadnoughts Kaiser and Kronprinz
wove sunk in the battle of Jutland,"
says the statement.
"A competent authority states that
neither was even hit by a torpedo.
"The Kaiser was struck slightly by
gunfire and orie man was killed. The
Kronprlnz was not struck and there
was no loss of life aboard her."
SMALL FIRE LOSS
s la rl ling and Kncoiimginff Decrease
Shown In Figures for City
of Xew York.
.MOW VOKK. July 23.?Fire Com
missioner Robert Adamson's annual re
port, made public to-day. disclosed the
lowest lire loss do the city's history.
budget was reduced for the first
time slncc 1898. .
There were 1.000 fires less in 1915
than in the preceding year. The total
lire loss?J5,757,018?was nearly $| -
000,000 less than in the first vear after
the creation of the pa|<] Ore depart
ment. fifty years ago, despite the popu-.
lation's increase eightfold. The per
capita fire loss is now only $1.08.
-----? 1 ir I ? v I I ] ?
WHILE BATHING
Dr. W. R. Hudson, Ober Hudson
and Richard F. Berry Meet
Death in Shenandoah.
j THEIR BODIES RECOVERED
' Believed One Seized by Cramp
and Others Die in Effort
to Save Him.
(Special to The Times-Dispatch.1
' LUP.AV, VA . July 2.1.?Ober Hudson
I and Dr. William R. Hudson, brothers,
the latter having arrived irt l.uray last
night from Washington, and their
brother-in-law. Kit-hard F. Berry, a
member of tin- law firm of Leedy &
Berry, of this place, were drowned In i
! the Shenandoah liiver lour miles west
? of Ltiray. this afternoon.
The three men were bathing In the
i river when, it is believed, one of them
i became a victim of rrainp. and in their
1 efforts to rescue him. all three of the
i men were drowned. No one was with
j In calling distance of the men. though
Herbert Kauffman, who owns a mill
; near-by, witnessed their struggles In
! the river which was swollen from re
cent rains. Kauffman saw the men.
and. for a tlnse, thought they were
i engaging in some of the antics that
I are the pastime of bathers. Search
for the bodies was begun at once, and
the muddy condition of the water seri
ously hampered those who were en
gaged In the work.
All of the l>o]ie? wore recovered la
! ter and brought to their homes In Lu
! ray. 'Die younget Hudson brother,
I Ober, was about twenty-one years of
] sire, while r ?r. William R. Hudson,
about two years his senior, recently
i graduated in medieine and was prac
ticing in Washington. He i-anie to the
, home of his mother, Mrs. Mary Hud
son, in this place. hist night to spend
his vacation.
Richard l!?*rr\. ,it>out two years ago
-married Miss I'earl Hudson, sister of
| the Hudson brothers. He was one of
the leading members of the l.uray bar
and iiad been Mayor of l.uray for
several years. The Hudson and Berry
homes are riot more than lf"> yards
apart.
i Mr. Berry leaves one child. Neither
of the Hudson brothers was married.
They are sons of the late H. V. 11 lit) -
I son, ;i former well-known hardware
merchant of Luray, while Borry was
' son of F. W. Berry, a hardware mer
| chant of this place. Ho was a grand-I
son of Captain R. S. Paries, a former I
member of the Legislature from this
count y.
SIR WILLIAM RAMSEY DEAD
Famous Scientist Who ilnil Added
.Much lo World's Sum of Knowl
edge, Dies In London.
LONDON'. July 23.?Sir William
Kainsev, K c B. the famous scientist,
died this morning.
I Sir William Ramsey was born in
? Glasgow. He had been a professor of
??hemistry at the University College,
Bristol, since 1SS9. lie was sent to
school at the Glasgow Academy, and
subsequently to the university. While i
at the University of Glasgow he went ?
into the laboratory of an analysis and
attended the* lectures of Lord Kelvin.
Then lie went to the University of
Tubingen for several years. After tak
ing his degree there he went back to
I England, and at the age of twenty-one
became assistant to the technical chair
, of chemistry, at what is now Ander
son follege From there be went as
; tutorial assistant of chemistry to Glas
gow University for sis years, when he
was appointed to University College,
Bristol. After the discovery of argon,
j Sir William discovered helium, in cer
i tain minerals' Next came krypton.
! He subsequently found neon, then (
; xenon, only one part of which is to i
i be found in TO.aOO.OOO parts of air?
a fraction so infinitesimal that the
! whole quantity Sir William was able
to Pnd during all his experiments
would only 111! a thimble.
NEW EVIDENCE FOUND
Police Strong In llellef Tliaf Dentli of j
>1 r*. lielster Ik Not Due
to Accident.
NORFOLK. VA.. July 23.?While de
I dining to make public the details of
! their discovery, police officials to- i
I night do not deny that evidence has j
| been developed that strengthens their j
! belief that the death of Mrs. Z. E. I
i Keistev, whose charred body was fount! !
I in the fire-wrecked attic of her home
on last Thursday morning, was not i
'an accident, as at first believed. In
declining to talk, the officers explain- |
ed that all new facts developed would 1
be made public at the inquest to be j
held on Thursday morning. Z. R. Kei- j
ster, who attempted to kill himself !
following the discovery of his wife's
body, in ty rocover. He shot himself j
through the temple.
i WILLCOX VISITS HUGHES j
Discuss Certain I'linse* of TriitiHCoii
tlnental ,'l'rlp to be Made liy Ite
pllllllcnn .Nominee.
BRIDGBHAMPTON. N. Y? July 23.? '
William 11. Wlllcox, Republican nation- I
nl chairman, motored throe hours j
through the rain and mud from Great
Neck to Bridgchampton late to-day
to confer with Charles 15. Hughes on
certain phases of the transcontinental
Hip on which Mr. Hughes will start
August f>.
Heavy rain fell hero all day. Mr.
Hughes remained Indoors, missing his
usual Sunday church service.
It was announced that Mr. Hughes
had received a letter, pledging sup
port. from Chauncey F. Overflcld, of
Halt Lake City, former treasurer of tlio .
Democratic State Committee of Utah.}
: t Ms
BRITISH DRIVE FORWARD
ON SEVEN-MILE FRONT
(?eucral Sir I'ertal) Singh, leader of Indian forces fi^hlin); for allies, with his son and the Ilajah of Ilutlam.
I.eft to right: Ilajah of Itutlam, Lieutenant-General Sir Pertab Singh, and his son. Sir Pcrtab Singh Is one
of Britain's most loyal colonial sons. He is an Indian of highest birth, and is in command of the Indian
force* fighting for the allies on the. western front. His son is also lighting on the western front. The Rajah
of Knllam commands a body of Indian troops fighting for the allies. India has sent thousands of troops to the
front to help the allies win their battles. The Indian troops came fully equipped ready for action.
FUNDS ABE NEEDED FOR
SUFFERERS FROM FLDOD
Tho Times-Dispatch Will Receive
Contributions for Relief
in Carolina;*.
DR. HOI Hi MS APPRO VMS PLAN
Money Will Rc Ivvpended 1'nder Di
rection of North Carolina Society
of Richmond?North Wilkeshoro
Hank Tells of Conditions.
Flood Warnings Issued
for Carolina Rivers
WASHINGTON, .Inly lilt Flood
YYiirniiiK* ii ix 111 n hnw lu-rii ixNuril
for the rl\iTN of South C'lirolliin,
Ilie W'rmliiT litiresiii iiniiouiicctl to
night. ItnliiM which have fallen K'n
rrnlly tliroup;liolit Hit* Aliunde nnd
I'.usl (iiilf SIiiIcn will continue Moti
dny and 'I'lirKilaj In portion* of the
CnroliuiiN, mill l-'lnrldu. and on Mnn
ilwy In (irorKiH and Xlnlininn. fol
loivril l?y genernlly fair wnithrr ,
Tuexd ny.
Fully aware of the distress and suf
fering caused by tho floods, which have I
swept the western portion of North
Carolina, Dr. J. Allison Hod ices, presi- ?
dent of the North Carolina Society of !
ichmond, announced last night that his
organization lias already taken what
steps may l>e necessary to <b> a por
tion of relief work which has already
been undertaken by various sections
of the country. Any contributions
which residents of this city may wish
to give to aid in this work will be re
ceived and acknowledged by The
Times-Dispatch and turned over to the j
North Carolina Society for distribution. J
"The North Carolina Society appro- I
ciates any movement to give aid to the i
sufferers in tlx- stricken area, and will
co-operate in all possible ways to that ;
end." said Dr. Hodges. "The members:
are. personally and fully aware of the
dose, relations between Virginia and
Notth Carolina."
(iovKHM)it < h.\i<; issi i:s
AIM'KAI. I'OK ASSISTA.VCK
An appeal for aid has been issued
in a formal proclamation by Governor
Craig, of North Carolina, who states
that along the western streams, large j
and small, the Hoods have swept away j
not only the homes and growing crops, j
but even the lands tin msclves of bun- j
dreds, if not thousands, of North t'iiro- j
linas citizens. "They are in distress,"!
says the Covet nor's proclamation, "and !
many of them are utterly destitute and j
helpless. Their all has been swept
away in a night."
One of the clearest statements of
actual conditions in Western Carolina
is set forth in the following letter re
ceived yesterday by II <*?. Proctor, man
ager of the ichmond Country Clearing
House Association, from the Hank of
North Wilkeshoro, North Wilkeshoro,
N. C.:
"In order that you may be fully ac
quainted with the conditions we are
facing on account of the. llood of July
'5, we desire to give you tho following
facts:
"Wo have had no telegraph, tele
phone or fallroad communication with
the outside world in the last eight days.
We have received no mall, ami all mail
we have been able to send was by
private messenger, twenty miles
through the country to the nearest rail
(Continue;! on "s'ccGnd' rase.") 4
Hughes Campaign:
Lac l^s Enthusiasm;
Leaders Worriedi
Continued Peace and Pros
perity of Country Make
Situation Hard for Re
publicans to Deal With.
I Special to The Tlnies-1 uspatch. J
WASHINGTON", July 23.?Charles IS.
Hughes's campaiyn f.>r the presidency
has slumped. There is n>> enthusiasm
behind it and none, of thai substance
in it that has hitherto characterized
the fights which nominees of the Re
publican party have made when they
hail anything: like an even chance to
win.
Just what is Die matter with the
Hughes candidacy nohody seems to
know. A few surface circumstances
may he cited to show why there has
been so pronounced a reaction, but
these scarcely explain the whole situa
tion of furnish a reason for the dejec
tion on the part of Republican leaders
in Washington.
It was only natural. of course, that
the first-blush hurrahing of the lie
publicans following the Chicago con
vention should have subsided some
what. That was expected. Rut it was
not expected that six weeks after the
nomination one would find evidences of
gloom wherever Kepublii-an politician^
gather. At this stage of the game, it
was expected that the shouting would
be revived, and the men who are to
lead the local fights should he ready
and eager to ??pet at 'em."
It is not to be doubted that the Mull
.Moose defection is one of the factions
contributing to the unpromising Kepub- j
liean prospect. It was assumed by
every Old Guard leader now in the bus
iness that Theodore Roosevelt could
deliver?bound and gagged?every im
portant Progressive in the country. No:
leader in the Republican convention
at Cliicag'o seems to have dreamed for!
a minute that the Colonel would or
could lose his grip upon the Mull >
Moose following.
"S'l'.t \ I) CAT" l.KAPKits
I \ 1)1 KIIKNT TO HI l.l. MOOSB j
And in line with the idea, the!
"Stand Pat" leaders took little notice]
of the. Progressive convention. They
were even contemptuous toward it. They |
thought it was all well enough to al- j
low the Progressive shouters to shout
until they were black in the face. The
shouting was not to bo taken serious- i
ly. All that seemed necessary to do |
from a Republican standpoint was to
annex Roosevelt himself. The rest of
the third party w uhl go along, it
was confidently believed.
Hut there lias been a decided dis
illusionment within the past few
weeks, a disillusionment which has af
fected Candidato Hughes and his im
mediate friends, and Colonel Roose
velt as well. A violent revolt on the
part of many leading Progressives
against swallowing Mr. Hughes has
eventuated. Leuder after leader. State
organization after State organization,
have served formnl notice upon the
Republicans that thoy will not he
hssdt'i ovir bodily to tiii uflxich-^
they started out four years ago to de
troy.
This l'rogressive flareliack is one of
the elements in the Republican situa- i
lion which has caused uneasiness, if
not actual alarm. Hut there are others.
And far up toward the head of one list
is the fact tluit the American people
are for peace. Nobody who circulates
among men and women of all classes
and conditions can lone remain in
ignorance of the circumstances. .More
over, Republican leaders have found
out how the man of the street is think
ing. and have learned at tin1 same time
that said man is pretty certain to
support the presidential candidate who
has made peace possible for this
country.
The serious part of all this, from
purely Republican standpoint, is that
it knocks the props from under that
party's assault upon the European and
the Mexican policies of President Wil
son. To every charge which Republi
can orators may make against these
policies comus the immediate and un
deniable answer that Woodrow Wilson
hap maintained peace with honor.
This is not merely the Democratic
politician's answer. It is the answer
| of the men and women who are con
I cerned in politics only in so far as
j statecraft and administrations affect
I their personal welfare.
I DIPKICIU.T TO COMBAT
SI <11 SK.VmilC.NT AS THIS
i Republican leaders have undoubted
ly come to realize the difficulty of en- i
J gaging in a campaign against such a ]
sentiment as that. They know that;
it will be useless to debate such ab- ;
stractions as are involved in the Ger-I
man correspondence for instance, or j
the negotiations with Carranza. They j
I must promise something better than \
Wilson has given the country, if they j
are to make an effective appeal for
Hughes, and nothing better has yet j
come from the councils jf Republi- j
canism.
From a strictly business standpoint,!
the situation is not far different. Re
publican candidates in the past have I
had the active support of Hie great j
corporations, anil this support is now
being played for by Mr. Hughes. But
the reports continue to pour into Wash-)
Ington to the effect that the real bust- j
liess of the country has not responded
to Republican propaganda. And the
reason is just litis:
American business interests are now
making good money. Some of them
are making big money. The country as
a whole is soundly prosperous. Every
man engaged in trade, knows this.
Every such man, moreover, fears that
any change In government will be dis
turbing. A Republican President might
not create a panic or even overturn
any established order, but if he did
anything at all along legislative lines,
he would necessarily create a disturb
ance. And the- average business man
seems entirely satisfied to let wall
enough alone.
These are some of the facts which
have had an influence upon the Re
publican campaign. They may not be
determining circumstances in so far as
the November result Is concerned, but
they have thrown a very positive damp
er upon the preliminary stage oC tha
GERMAN DEFENSES
NEAR POZIERES
TAKEN BY STORM
Fighting Is Carried Into
Village Against Desper
ate Resistance.
NOW ASTRIDE HIGHWAY
WHICH LEADS TO BAPAUME
Berlin Claims That All Attacks
of Haig's Men Are
Repulsed.
FRENCH LINKS HOLDING TIGHT
Austrian* Retreat Toward Main
Ridge of Carpathians to Ls
cu|io Russian Menace
Attacking alone a seven-mile front
running from Thicpval through vil
lages of PozicroH and Longueval to
Guillemont. in the Som me. region of
France, the British have captured tho
outer works of Fozlcrep, according to
the British official communication,
l.ongueval also was taken, but th?
Ciermatts. in a heavy counterattack, re
gained the northern end of the vil
lage. During Sunday the outskirts of
Ouillemont twice, changed hands. The
fighting, which is described as being of
intense violence, continues from Po
zieres to Ouillemont.
Berlin is at variance with tho British
official communication, declaring that
along the entire line the attacks of
the British were fruitless and that
they suffered heavy casualties. Around
Poziercs and Foureaux wood tho com
batants cam? to grips In hand-to-hand
fighting.
South of the Somme Sunday was
relatively calm, following strong at
tacks on Saturday night against the
French near Soyecourt. which Perls
asserts broko down under the French
lire. Tho Germans In tho Vordun sec
tor, according to Berlin, liavo gained
some ground south of Daml tup. Con
siderable heavy artillery activity has
been in progress at various other
points around Verdun.
The Austrians In it>e Carpathian
i cgion. threatened with a heavy Russian ^
attack In the district southeast of Tata
row, have withdrawn tholr forces to
ward the main ridge of tho Carpa
thians, tho Vienna War Office an
nounces. Tetrograd reports tho cap
ture of additional men and guns In
this region.
While unofficial advices from Petro
grad give a report of a flve-mlle gain
by the Russians in tho Riga region,
the Berlin War Office says Russian at
tempts to advance southeast of that
city were broken up by the Germans,
as also was a maneuver In which the
crossing of the Styr River In Vothynla
was the objective. On the other hand,
Petrograd asserts that the Germans
attempted an attaak on the Stokhod
River in Volhynia, but were com
pelled to retire and that an effort of
the Germans to recapture lost posi
tions near Smorgen, to the east of
Yilna, proved futile.
Fresh advances by the Italians
against the Austrians in the Trento
and Dolomites sectors of the Austro
Itallan theater are chronicled in the
Rome official communication, and fur
ther gains by the Russians against tho
Turks in the Black Soa littoral and
further south, near Erzinegan, are re
ported by Petrograd.
Hol.n llOTfl SIDKS
OK HO AD TO BAPAUME
LONDON, July 23.?Australian troops
have established themselves in Poisieres
and have gained a position on both
sides of the road' in the direction of
Bapaume, in a new British attack.
whi.h began at midday Saturday
against the Germans on the entire
front from l'ozleres to Guillemont. The
Germans have, been putting forward
their full strength in attempts to pre
vent the British forces from reaching
their third-line positions. Fighting of
the fiercest character is in progress.
The fact that General Tlalg has been
able to assume tho ot'fenslvo so soon
after the unsuccessful German coun
terattacks of last week, in which very
strong German forces were brought
forward, is regarded as a good augury.
At Guillemont and Longueval for
tunes fluctuated, both places changing
hands several times. Late to-night
lighting was proceeding with the ut
most violence.
The German counterattacks recently
delivered against the. French front
have proved equally unsuccessful and
the entente allies now are lighting
>lowly in the direction of Combles,
which is only two miles distant from
U ullleiuont.
According to a reliable estimate, the
British and French togothe^ have cap
tured. since July 1. moro than 26,000
prisoners, HO guns and hundreds of
machine guns.
Front the eastern frontier come fur
ther reports of continued Russian suc
cesses. General Kuropatkln has cut
Field Marshal von Hlndenburg's line
at several points, and, according to an
unofficial report, has penetrated a dis
tance of five miles.
Russian official reports of th# opera
tions In this s??ctor (Riga) are exceed- ,J
Ingly reticent, but Von Hindenburg'*
lino was considered the strongest on
the whole oaatarn frafrt, and tilAt th*
?? '
