l :
I
r
i
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Eugle wilt bring buyer
and teller together.
i "
tie
AND PILOT
, THE WEATKIH
The weather forecast for L
Tonight and Bandar, generally f
VOL XXX, NO. 176.
BRYAN, TEXAS, MONDAY, JULY 24, 1916.
price u.co per a::
Btwm
T&ewe
EM:-
Good Sardines
' Just received a new shipment of FRENCH and NOR
WEGIAN SARDINES-Small Fish. '
Hardy Newton
LAST KB
FROM ELECTION
. Incomplete Return Still Leave U. 8.
Senate Race Doubtful Submis
sion Not Certain.
Incomplete returns whic h have been
received np till noon today show that
Ferguson will be re-elected Governor
of Texas. The Submission vote Is
still in doubt with chances favorable
for Submission. Colqulttt Is leading
for U. 8. Senator with Brooks and
Culberson running close together for
second place.
, Below are figures up to noon to
day:
Submission Amendment For 113,'
397; against, 107,768.
For U. S. Senator Brooks, 60.184;
Campbell. 48.98:. ..Cpliultt.. 22.692;
Culberson. 60.481; Davis, 7.451; Hen
ry. 26,950.
For Chief Justice Jenkins, 94,609;
rhtlllps, 149.329.
For Assoclste Justice Hall, 118,
486; Ysntls. 127,641.
For Governor Ferguson, 160.717;
Marshall. lUM; Morris, 114.818.
For Attorney General Looney 120,-
ELECTO
RETURNS
WERE RECEIVED
Large Crowd Show Appreciation and
Were Very Patient In Waiting
for 8low Returns.
There were several hundred people
congregated In front of the Eagle
office Saturday nlnht to bear the re
TEUTOrllG FORGES IE
, m io pressed
The Russians Have Made Marked Advances on
a Thirty Mile Front? and the Forces of Von
Hindenberg Are Being Severely Hammered.
He was Driven Back Twelve Miles at One
, Point Russians . Claim Advances Against
The Turks Which Constantinople Denies
Turks Claim British .Cavalry Defeated Near
Suez Canal Rome' Reports Italian Gains
Against the Austrians A British Cruiser
; and Several German Torpedo Boat Destroy-
ers Engaged in Battle in Which the Germans
Were Worstead, Two of Them Being Badly
Crippled. '.?..''
London, July 24. General Sir Doug-,
... . . a M l A ! '
las Haig toosy reported new onum
turns of the county and State elec- gains In the tight for Posleres, which
tlon read. Returns were very slow blocks the advance toward Bapaume,
coming In owing to the length of the and near High Wood, In the vicinity
ballot It was after 9 o'clock before of Gullemont Berlin ssya the British
the first box In Braxos county was gains were trivial. Bed weather along
h-ard from and the last one received the French front In the somme River
Saturday night was taken over the' region Interferea with operations,
telephone a little after 2 o'clock. Bo-j Petrograd emphasises the Import-
vlnnfnr at twolva ho rmwA Wan SnCS of the RuSSlSH Offense In the
" ------- -- D ,
to ant smaller and when the last box Ri8 region, asserting
was read out only a fay were left
to hear how their favortea were run
ning. The crowd was orderly and
lots of fun was had by some of those
who were Interested.
von nindsn-
burg fodces were driven back 12
miles at one point The Russians are
now haltsd to consolidate. Ground
was gslned on a 30-mils front
In Turkey the Russlsns claim the
HE TRUE MOTIVE
OF
SERVICE
Rev. Chaa. T. Tally of First Meth
odist Church Speaka to Firemen .
at Unletr Meeting Last Night :
-Tbc -services were held at the
First Methodist Church Sunday even
ing in honor of the Fire Department
of the City of Bryan. The department
With the aeelstanre of a few of our ud, n 15 ,rom Er attended In a body, headed by ita able
friends It waa possible to keep the ,8,n- but Turk,y '"" tht l'UM'n, thief. Mr. C. E. Jenkins. There erss
crowd well entertained. 8tate bulle-?wr 'ud p,r,l- Constanti- alM , immene crowd from the va
line were received every few mln- lM h Brltl,h "v,lry rloue Protestsnt churchces of the city
utes and read aloud. The Bryan deft,d of th 8u,I BMr, present to hear the address delivered
Telephone Compsny bss our thsnks th M"aL . u ! 7 'h- T- lT of tne
625; Rowland. 20425; Woods. M.12S. for extra telephones which they In- rmT'9 T , r 'W oa,n cnarcn'
For RaUrotl Comm.a.onerlDan.el ' stalled and especially should the op-. "Is eighth host... aero-, After a -,..,,,.. eulogy to our
l ' iilina as aatanAaV f t..a.. JamhiahI tkaa ei raa V.
Bobbins,' orators be mentioned for their eftl-,1""' . !B1,r' .
I mm4 Italian ft a I na In what j t ...VU.t NrvA Vena
Hunt mmrvlom Th mnrVmA h.rrf ttM "w"" - r KDDOUDCCrQ Ul uuw i
r
iiisHiiiimiiiiiiiiiiininiiinr.
iiiiiiinisiismimr
:.3jj
4
5 ! Hom W Ika Taue CW Ipni.liil
"2
Announcement
Ve are gratified to announc that ve hare)
made arrangements to aupply you with the famous.
Stone's Wrapped Cakes
Pure, delicious, Koow-lik flavored cakes of unexceDsd Biarit
They are Biada of the pureat ingradienta. indudina pure
country butter oeitively no lard used fraah milk and eggs.
Baked in a modem up-to-tSe-minute bakery constructed
(or the baking of cakce exduaivcly the only bafcery of its
kind in Texas. Capacity 3.000 Stone's Cakes pa hour.
Oece yt try lAem. ymit
mhtay bnt M Slm'$"
10 centi a package '
REID BROO.
ciTiicDJiiiMf'an.,
IHIIIUI IIHJ UIIUI
l IS ARRESTED
38.222;
M.484.
May field, 121.078;
iTm - ' A.tlra Malan.
For 8tate Treasurer Baker, 76,-1 faithfully and for seven hours a ser-' "
111; Edwards, 122,512; Munn. 11.620. vice waa available that was almost)
For Judge Criminal Appeals liar- perfect
per. 111.163; Morrow, 132.780. " another column we are printing
For Conditioner Land Office tabulated vote of Brasoa county,
n a. wmm. V. II, . . . . . . n i. L I Iwhlfll I In iivnriliiiM wlfH H fl.
ueera, i,at, mil. n.ivw, nuuuina, - - -
SUBllfl
E
140.845.
For Comptroller Terrell. 14J.088; i t lh various boxes.
White. 77.830.
For Congressman at Large Byrne,
21.14; Cooley,17.37; Cox. 10.303;
Darwin. 82.748; Davis. 48.824; Kits
gerald. 48.222; Oarrett 72.508; Har
rington. 1508; Lackland. 14.754; Mc
Iemore, C8.2M; Padelford, 13,270;
Porter, 15.823.
Robertson Law For, 11 4.661 against
61.701.
Cruiser and Torpedo Boata Fight
(By Aaaoclated Pr.ua
London, July 24. Though repeated-1
edly hit the alx German torpedo boat
urea given out by the election judges destroyers engsged In a running fight i
Motive of Service." As a basis for
Lis remarks he took the incident of
the washing of the dlsctples' feet by
which example Jesus showed bis dis
ciples their mission wss to be a mis
sion of service. It wss plainly Illus
trated that "He who would be great-
Bill Smith Was Shot and Killed In
His Bsd at Home Near Blue
Grove Son Who la 20
Waa Arrested.
(By Aaaoclatea Freas
Henrietta, Texas. July 24. Bill
Smith waa ahot and killed early this
morning while In bed at his home
near Blue Grove and his son, Alfred
who la 20 years old has been arrested.
It Is claimed that the son came borne
late after coming to this city against
his fathers wishes.
EASTEfli J TROOPS
E
TROUBLE
BREMEN
FAILS TO APPEAR
GRAVELING STATION WALK.
The Houston and Texaa Central has
a force of workmen busy today put
ting a new top of gravel on the plat
form at the passenger station.
Hope for the Safe Arrival of Ship
Haa Waned Since It Has Failed
to Make Apearance.
lor Aaaoclated Praeml
Norfolk, Va, July 24. Hope for the
safe arrival of the submarine Brem-
by a British light cruiser y.stcrd.y on nl " MrTMt
off Schouwen bank, escaped. , 0
A dispatch from The Hague aays, rour " " ,, .... 4k.
lv Oermsn destroyer two listing "u0' tZel TaJ t!
heavily, returned toward Zeebrugge n f
. ' spite or rivalry, sense of duty and
un ,y ,0Te- S0106 Mn8' service only from
, . . . , . a sense of fesr. W"hil this service Is
No Appesl for Cssement , . . ., . . .
IB, A-uemte. Pm-) - -cceptable I. no the truesU and
London. July 24.-The Attorney , "lest for W aerrlce. Occasionally
r..r.l h.a IntlmldalMl he will not 'mr " n-naerra inn..... .
grant a flat enabling Sir Roger Cae-!' ' P w Hvstry-an effort to
fmm th. HmiM of " or excel wnwon.
however, is this tne true motive tor
service. Agsln. It Is often the case
i Aeauith Wante More Monsy. i that people are prompted to ao gooa
i m AmorniM Prma i merely from a sense of duty. It bss
ment'a appeal
Lords death sentence,
an waned today when she fallod to. tendon. July 24. Premier Asqulth , been said that "Duty lathe subllmest
appear off Cape Henry, though know- tojBT Muej the House of Commons ' word In the English language," still
Ing persons said the presence' of f0P cr.,it vote of four hundred and' we have yet to look for the ruest and
Spendthrifts msy be so callod be- alllod warships msy have delayed (Hty million pounds, the Urgent since loftiest motive that prompts men lo
cause they hsve nothing In common her.
the war begsn.
I
Massachusetts Infantrymen Cross the
Border and Shoot Up Mexican
Houses.
(By Associated Press)
El Paso, Texaa, July 24. General
Gousalea, the Juarea commander, to
day protested to General Bell against
guards of the Ninth 'Maseachueetta In
fantry, who, he claimed, crossed apoa
Mexican soli and ahot ap a number of
Mexican homes.
CLARK RECOR
DED BY EMI
E
Judiciary Committee of Senate Unan
imously Rscommends Clarke for
Justice Hughes' Plsce.
Washington, July 24. The Senate
Judiciary . Committee today unani
mously recommended the confirma
tion of John H. Clarke of Cleveland.
Ohio, to succeed Charles E. Hughes
for Assoclste Justice of the Supreme
Court who haa reslcned.
Laredo Troops Walt
(By Associated Praaa.1
Washington, July 84. Major Gen
era! Bliss today advised the War Do
partmept that health conditions of the
guardsmen at Laredo; Texaa. were
excellent The Laredo authorttlea are
taking steps to purify the water sap.
ply.
COUNTY COURT.
The regular session of the Brasoa
County Criminal Court waa called thla
morning. The Jury forine week waa
called, and after securing new Jurors
for several who were absented by
legal excuses the court got dowa to
business. The docket waa called and
the trial ot cases will start either this
afternoon or early in the morning.
sstssatssaaaajaaa
Buy FumituYe on Credit
' Our plan of selling furniture on credit makes it easy for you to enjoy the comforts
of a well furnished home without waiting to save the money to pay for it.
PAY WHILE YOU ARE ENJOYING THE FURNITURE Come and select what
' you wish make a small first payment and other payments can be arranged to suit
your convenience. '
We sell all kinds of furniture, stoves, Firelets Cookers, Refrigerators, Pianos,
Organs, Victrolas, Sheet Music, Window and Porch Shades, Awnings, Hammocks,
Lawn and Porch Goods, Etc
COME TO SEE US FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED.
la Fo
do good.
While fear and duty are legitimate
motives, they are not the highest mo-
( iiyAa Love Is the real and true mo
tive for eervloe to God and man. The
Individual who renders service, not
from a sense of fear or a sense ot
duty or obligation, but because of love
for the task and pleasure derived I
from the doing of It. la artuted by the ,
most sublime and holy of alt motives
This address on the subject of
"Duty" waa peculiarly fitting on such
an occasion. The speaker took ad-'
vanf-se of the occasion and his sub
Jnct to commend the splendid service
rendered the clly by the flra depart
meat He assured the department of
he appreciation of aervlcea rendered
In the past for the preservation of life
,and property and pledged Ihe sym-;
pathy and co-operation ot Ira people
In the future.
I The service wss Impressive In
; every respect and caused the firemen
of the city to feel that thlr services
i for the good ot the public were prop-
( J cr2 tht Betty a (Wort f 1W Homt I
NEW FURNITURE
Don't build your home merely for out
side appearance. Make it attractive and
comfortable inside.
Our constant effort is to obtain new
designs that will meet with your every re
quirement, and with a close scrutiny of,
every detail of construction in the manu
facture. We would like to have you call and sec
our stock of furniture those beautiful
bedroom suits in birds eye, mahogany, old
ivory and oak. Willow sets, comfortable
rockers, art squares, rugs and refrigera
tors. ,
W.T. JArJ3EG,Fu:.::iTuaE
Ths Store That Qlvea Service That Susy People Appreciate-
r
Do all the work you ran; there are
lota ot laiy men who win do tne rest
