IMES
VOL XX NO. 110.
IIAHHK, VEHMOXT. MONDAY. JULY 24, 191G.
ritlCK, OXE CEXT.
THE BARRE' DAILY
;'
POZIERES
BEING WON
BY BRITISH
Large Tart of the Village
Has Been Captured From
The Germans, According
to the Official Statement
Issued in London Prog
ress Also Made Toward
Guillemont
12-MILE ADVANCE
BY THE RUSSIANS
On the Riga Front the Fight
ing, Which Has Been Go
ing on For Four Days,Has
Been Halted Now French
Aviator Made Daring
Flight Over Berlin
London, July 24. Britinli troops have
captured a large part of the village of
Fozieres, says the British official state
ment. They also gained some ground
near the high wood in the direction of
Guillemont.
Villages Changing Hands.
Last night's official statement was as
follows:
"The fourth week of the Somme battle
begins well for the allies and is expected
to be fruitful of important developments.
Before Saturday midnight the British
began a new attack on the whole Hue
from Pozieres to Guillemont and the fact
that General Haig has been able to re
sume the offensive so soon after the un
successful German counter attacks of
last week, in which very strong German
forces were brought forward, is report
ed as a good augury.
"The fighting has been of the fiercest
character, the Germans working with
their utmost strength to prevent the
British from advancing to their third
line positions. But when the last reports
left headquarters in France, the Austri-
ans had firmly established themselves In
DROPPED NOTES
AS HE SAILED
OVER BERLIN
Oaring French Aviator Mads Remarkable
Flight of 807 Miles, But Was Forced
to Descend Before Reaching Rus
sian Lines and Was Caught
By Germans.
rria, July 21. Lieutenant Marshal of
tin' French aviation corps hut month left
French soil and flew over the German
capital, upon which he dropped prm-lama.
tions and then continued his flight, in
tending to land within the Russian
lilies. He was forced to descend, how
ever, in 1'olund and was taken prisoner
by the Germans.
Lieutenant Marshal made a continuous
flight of KIHI" miles, most of which he
traveled in darkness. The announcement
was made in an official communication.
The proclamation dropped on .Berlin
stated that though it was possible the
aviator refrained from bombarding an
open town and thus killing women and
innocent children.
ALLIED SHIP
IS WATCHING
Either for the Outgoing
Deutschalnd or Incom
ing Bremen
DOUBT IS FELT
. , BREMEN IS NEAR
Seafaring Men Do Not Be
lieve She is Near Vir
ginia Capes
WILL NOT PRESENT
A IRISH BILL
So Long as There Does Not Appear to
Be Substantia Agreement By
All Parties.
London. July 24. Premier Asquith to
day told John Redmond in the House of
Commons that the British government
did not propose to introduce the Irish
bill in regard to which there did not ap
pear to be prospect of substantial agree
ment by all parties. J lie Irish say tney
will have nothing to do with proposals
to make the exclusion of I Ister per ma
nent or to reduce the Irish representa
tion in the imperial Parliament pending
final settlement.
Redmond obtained leave to move ad-
ournment of the House in order to call
attention to the unrest in Ireland be
cause the government did not propose to
carry out in their entirety the terms for
a temporary settlement.
GREAT BRITAIN "ASTONISHED."
American
Regarding
Insinuation Over
Mail Seizure.
London, July 24. The foreign offie
has published the text of the note handed
to the American ambassador replying to
certain American complaints Rgainst the
British censorship of mails. The reply
is confined to the few specific allegations
made in the recent American note. It
is stated that the formal answer to th
eeneral arguments advanced by tho
Washington government is still under
consideration by the allied governments
and will receive reply in due course.
The tvo principal cases referred to in
the present memorandum are those of
the MacXiff Horticultural company of
Xew York and the Standard Under
ground Cable company of Pittsburg. The
MacNiff company complained of the loss
the deten
Norfolk Vs., July 24. Only one of the
allied warships patrolling the Virginia
capes waiting for the Deutschland or
Bremen was in sight to-day. Seafearing
men say the Bremen cannot be any her a
near the capes.
Predictions from German sources that
the Bremen would attempt to enter the
capes yesterday were not borne out, but
hope was expressed by persons who ac
curately predicted the coming of the
Deutschland two weeks ago, that Ui-j
Bremen would appear within a day or
two. However, some concern as to her
whereabouts is being felt.
Daylight yesterday morning found a
great four-tacked ship, apparently of the,
French navy, hugging closely to the
three-mile limit. As trading vessels be
gan to move out of the harbor, she
began stopping all of them from friend
ly nations and apparently, interrogating
the crews. Several times small boats
were put off the warship and sent over
to the halted vessels. An attempt to
get in
tug during the afternoon failed, and
caused her to put far out to sea.
ANNE ELIZA BANISTER
Native of Barre Died in Potsdam, N. Y
Sunday.
Anne K.lis (Bacon) Banister, a native
of Barre and long a ntsident of this place
died yesterday forenoon at her home In
Potsdam, X. V., after an illness with
jaundice since last May. She was an
sunt of (. J. I aidge of 41 Kim street
Barre, and Mrs. iHidge returned to her
home here Sunday morning after having
spent two weeks tn assisting in the care
of Mrs. Banister, the telegram coming
but a few hours after her return to
Barre. When Mr. Dodge left Potsdam
the patient condition seemed to be fa
vorable. Mr. IVuigo went to Potsdam
to day and will return with the body.
The funeral Is to lie held at the Dodge
residence on Flm street and buria will
oe in the naeon tamiiv lot in l.lmwood
cemetery.
Mrs. Banister was born March 12. 1 S.lfi,
the daughter of John anil Hannah
(Thwing) Bacon. She was one of three
children, of whom Mrs. Laura Dodge,
widow of Captain Alliert F. Dodge and
residing at I2il Xorth Seminary street.
is the only survivor, the brother, James.
having died some years ago. 'Mrs. Ban
ister lived the greater part of her life in
Barre but for short intervals was a resi
dent of Montpclier, Williamstown, Stowe
and Morrisville. In her younger davs
she was a skilled tailored and was en
gaged in that oeeupation in Barre and
Montpclier. Since 102, when she mar-
rieil II. Spencer Hamster of I'otsilam.
he had been a resident of that place.
Mr. Banister died last March.
Besides her sister. Mrs. Banister leaves
two nephews. Frank K. Dodge of Xew
t ork City and O. J. Dodge of Barre:
three grand nephews. Malcolm K. and A.
r ramus Dodge of New York City and A.
Osman Dodge of Barre; also two step-
laughters, Mrs. (,race Covey of Wtiite
Plains, X. V., and Mr. Harriet Park-
hurst of Potsdam, the latter of whom
was with her at the time of her death.
BLOOD STAINS
ON HIS BOOTS
Whether Human Blood or
Not, State Chemist Could
Not Determine
BLOODY HANDKER
CHIEF INTRODUCED
State Is Nearing End of Its
Evidence in The Felch
Case
BAR RE-CHELSEA.
rozieres ana are reported to nave piacea tion bv the censor of shinning docu
ments relating thereto.
The British government states that as
themselves astride the road in the diree
tion of Bapaume, while at Guillemont
and Longueval forts fluctuated, both
places changing hands several times. Late
to-night fighting was proceeding with the
utmost violence."
GERMAN WARSHIPS
REPEATEDLY HIT
BUT GOT AWAY
Running Fight Engaged in By British
Light Forces Off Schouwen Bank,
According to Statement of
British Admiralty.
London, July 24. Six German torpedo
boat destroyers were engaged in a run
ning fight by British light forces oft
Schouwen Bank yesterday, says the offi
cial statement by the British admiralty.
The German vessels were repeatedly hit
but they succeeded in reaching the Bel
gian coast.
RUSSIANS HALT
ON RIGA FRONT
After Four Days of Fighting During
Which the Germans Were Driven
Back Twelve Miles, According
to Reuter's Dispatch from
Petrograd.
London, July 24. The Germans have
been driven back twelve miles on tho
Riga front, according to a Reuter's dis
patch from Fctrograd. The fighting went
on tor four days but has now halted.
ANZACS ARE EFFECTIVE
Are Being Used with Success on Western
Front.
London, July 24. A Reuter despatch
from the British front in France, filed
at 3:30 p. m. yesterday, says:
"Following a heavy bombardment last
night, British troops and Anzacs attacked
towards Pozieres and Guillemont. De
spite desperate resistance the Anzacs
succeeded in establishing themselves in
Fozieres, where they are now consolidat
ing their lines. It is reported that the
casualties were comparatively light.
"West of Tozieres, the British success
fully advanced. On the right of Pozieres,
the mire entanglements were insufficient
ly destroyed, and progress consequently
was checked by the heavy machine gun
fire. Nevertheless, we gained footing in
Guillemont, but owing to a determined
counter attack, were unable to maintain
the ad vane.
"On the whole our progress continues
MtufactorT, especially m the neighbor
hood of Fonere, and along the
through the village northward, on
we are reported as established."
soon as the matter was brought to its
attention it arranged to have a special
mail for shipping papers which would be
Immediately censored, so that no delay
would occur.
In the case of the Cable company it is
stated that "the government of the L'nit
ed States appeared to insinuate that the
delay in the mail of the Cable company
was directly connected with the fact;
that a British competitor had obtained a
contract for which that company had
been tendering."
"His majesty's government," the note
continues, "is astonished that such an in
sinuation shjuld be made, especially as
the complaint from the Cable company
appears not to have been adequately ex
amined." I
The memorandum goes on to. show in
considerable detail that the tenders for
the contracts referred to must have
passed between the United States and
Xorway on a date prior to that upon
which the censorship of Scandinavian
mails began. After detailing other cases,
the note continues:
The specific complaints do not support
the general charge against the efficiency
of the British censorship. His
majesty's government will always be
ready to explain in detail the working
of censorship as there is nothing re-
carding it which they wish to conceal
Many complaints when examined proved
to' arise from badly directed letters, the
irregular sailing of neutral mailboats and
other causes entirely outside the con
trol of his majesty's government and are
often due to the action of enemies.
Next Barre Board of Trade Trip Will Be
to Chelsea Wednesday, July 26.
Members of the Barre Board of Trade
communication with her from HM0i, wjth a lady, are expected to go to
C'hcNea Wednesday evening, starting
from the park in front of City hall -it,
5:45 o'clock. The Ten Pin club of Chel
sea are to furnish the Barre pecple a
supper in the Chelsea town hall. Tickets
for the supper at fifty cents each can Le
obtained from H. A. Phelps.
F.ach member of the Board of Trade is
supposed to take one lady. All members
owning automobiles are requested to of
fer the use of said automobiles m con
veying the Barre people to and from I
Chelsea and are to line up in front of
City hall by 5:4. Wednesday evening. A
40 are needed please do not hesitate.
Positively only 150 supper tickets eau
be sold to Barre people and the first to
apply will lie the first served. All hold
ers of supper tickets will be given full
transportation by automohilo to Chelsea
and return. The automobile committee
consists of B. W. Hooker, G. R. Varnum,
and E. C. Glysson.
AUTOS AND TEAMS
IN COLLISION
Chelsea, July 24. With the reconven
ing oi Orange county court this after
noon at 2 o'clock, the state entered upon
the second week of its case against Otis
Williams, jointly indicted with Anna
Fclch, for causing the death of Joseph
Felch at Topshani on the night of April
22. The appearance on the stand of Ir
win Worthley, a -stenographer employed
by Mates Attorney F. S. Williams,
promised to provide a dramatic climax
to the line of prosecution followed bv
me attorney general and the state s at-,8l heard
torney during the week just closed. It h fail.
is tlirougli Worthley that the state ex
pect Ui bring out the confession u
leged to have been made by Williams,
a confession that was admitted by the
court just before adjournment Saturday
noon anil only alter the defense had
vigorously opposed its admission as evi
denee.
There is a feeling here that the state
No One Seriously Hurt in Accidents on
Barre Streets But Property Was
Considerably Smashed.
Around 0.;I0 o clock Sunday evening
two ntomobile accidents, each involving
a rear-end collision with a team, occurred
on North Main street. In each instance
tlni automobile got the better of the
meeting. The first to happen had the
vicinity of Depot square for its locale,
where Dr. K. B. Watson of Williams-
town, hurrying to make the Green Moun
tain express with a passenger, sideswiped
tho rear of a team owned by Frank Ma
guire, a Graniteville liveryman. The
more serious of the two accidents hap
pened just south of Blackwell street, a
jitney operated by C. X. Ladd of Barre
running into a team driven by rrancis
Mcl.eay of Church street. Both horses
finally landed In the Jones 4 Xye stable,
tho Ma guire horse with a superficial
wound in its breast.
Spectators were disposed to place the
burden of blame on the auto drivers. A
p-mish ounrrvman from the hill was
bound for home on the right side of the
road when Dr. Watson's touring car cut
n toward the square. Headlights on the
machine were shattered and the radiator
was dented, but none of the occupants
was injured. The driver of the horse-
drnwn vehicle clung to his scat, but the
horse received a cut in the chest and was
ed awav to the Jones i Xve stable to
be doctored. When questioned concern-
ng the outfit that he sent awav from
his stable in the afternoon, Mr. Maguire
said he did not know the name of the
man who hired the horse. From .what he
the driver was not at fault,
BRAVE EFFORT
ENDS IN DEATH
OF. TWO BOYS
Richa j Moody, Aged 14,
Tri i to Save His Brother,
Du it, Aged 13, Who
II? I Been Attacked With
Cr j ips While Bathing in
Dog River Yesterday Afternoon
BODIES RECOVERED
AFTER THREE HOURS
Farther down the street a few mo
ments later, Francis McLeay, a draughts
man employed at the plant of C. W. Mc
Millan & Son, was driving home a Jones
Xye horse from a day's outing at Ber
lin pond. He was about to cross the
trolley tracks at Blackwell street when
the jitney crashed into the rear of the
carriage. With the arrival of the jitney,
TO PUT GOLD ABOARD
And Then Deutschland Will Be Ready to
Leave.
Baltimore. Md.. July 24. From a re
liable source it is learned that the Amer-
i)j.m agency of the Deutschland has
closed negotiations for a large consign
ment of gold to be taken back on the
submersible, 'ihe gold, it was said,
would lie taken aboard to-day and the
boat would then lie ready to leave.
VILLA ESCAPED
BY SMALL MARGIN
will rest after Worthley is excused from the horse became fricrhtened. stretched
the stand, although one or two witnesses itself into racing form and presently bad
may lie recalled to the stand. While young McLeay dragging along on the
the hot weather of last week seemed to flagging, his hands tightly gripped to the
have a withering effect on the spectators reins. When he gave up the struggle to
court, jury and attorneys have stuck stop the horse, the carriage brought up
maniuiiy 10 ineir ia.K ana mere appears against a pole nt the If rook street inter
to lie a desire on all sides to expedite the section and was reduced to small dimen-
trial as much as possible. sions by its sudden contact with some-'
Between the time court announced its thing stationary. The horse continued
decision on the preliminary hearing as up the street to Depot square, where it
to whether Williams' statement should was halted, after its madcap perform
he read and the hour of adjournment ances had scattered a bevy of girls stand
Saturday afternoon, three witnesses were ing near the Vermont Fruit store. Mc-
examined. Charles Jenkins of Meredith. Lea v. with both knees badly skinned.
X. H., Sheriff A. A. Reed of W'illiari.s- and his trousers torn, caught ut with
Another Youth, Who Was
Swimming With Moody
Boys, Rushed for Aid and
When He Returned There
Was No Sign of Either
Victims Were Barre Boys
Mexican Bandit Leader Left Crutches
and Nurses Behind, According to
Statements By an Amer
ican. El Paso, July 24. Only bv the merest
chance did Francisco Villa escape cap
ture when his column was repulsed by
the de facto troops in its attack upon
Parral two weeks ago, according to a let
ter from an American in that'town. Vil
la escaped from a carriage by means of a
horBe, leaving crutches and nurse behind.
RELEASE UNITED STATES.
From Necessity of Defending Territorial
Integrity of Mexico.
Xew York, July 24. Radical changes
in the laws governing foreigners doing
business in Mexico are about to be made
in a series of decrees which may later
be Included in the new constitution, ac
cording to arrivals from Mexico City.
The new regulations will lift from the
L'nited States the responsibility of de
fending the territorial Integrity of Mex
ico against the possibility of seizure cf
lands or property by any foreign nation
in order to pay the claims of their nationals.
ADMITTED WATCH THEFT
town and Dr. C. F. Whitney of Burling
ton, state chemist. Jenkins testified that
in Xoveniber, 1H15, the respondent, Wil
liams, came to the mill in Meredith
where the witness was working and ap-
the horse later in the evening.
The driver of iitney Xo. Ii03, said he
was going at a rate of 10 miles per hour
when he hooked into the team, a process
which he explained by stating that his
REPLY UNSATIS
FACTORY TO U. S.
OFFICIALS
FRENCH TROOPS QUIET
Bad Weather on Somme Prevented Them
from Activity.
Paris, July 24. Bad weather prevails
along the Somme front in northern
France and the night passed quietly
with the French troops there, the war
office announces.
RUSSIANS RETREATED.
Set Back in Persia, According to Con
stantinople Statement.
Constantinople, July 24. Further re
treat of the Russian forces in Persia
under Turkish pressure is reported in
n official statement.
RUSSIANS ARE ADVANCING
PetrogTad Reports That They Are Pro
gressing in Armenia.
Petrograd, July 24. The forces of Em
peror Xicholas operating in Turkish Ar
menia are steadily advancing upon the
fortified town of Kzringan. says a Rus
sian statement.
Because It Deals with Specific Cases In
stead of With the Principles of
Mail Interference.
Washington, D. G, July 24. England's
partial reply to the American note pro
testing against interference with neutral
mails is regarded by officials as unsatis
factoryj principally because it deals with
specific cases instead of the principles in
volved. The memorandum to Ambassa
dor Page is now before President Wilson.
John Slade of Boston Pleaded Guilty in
Barre Court.
John Slade of Boston, who told the
court that his father, sexton of the Old
Xorth church, had the benefit of his as
sistance when he was at home, pleaded
guilty to a larceny of a watch when ar
raigned before. Magistrate H. W . Scott in
city court near noon to-day. Slade was
on the point of taking a jail sentence
when it became known that someone
would appear to pay his fine. He was
arrested by Deputy Sheriff H. J. Slayton
on a complaint ma do to Grand Juror
William Wishart. It was alleged that!
the watch, the property of John Trow,
was taken from F. A. Slayton.
In city court Saturday night E. L.
Kibby of Williamstown acknowledged
that he had operated his auto without
properly lighting the vehicle. A fine of
$3 and costs were paid. The respondent
was detained on a complaint made to the
grand juror.
plied for employment; that the witness brakes wouldn't hold. Four passengers,
had a conversation with him in which three men and a woman, Ladd said, were
the respondent told him he had left nis not designated bv name. The driver
wife and was going to "get a bill" from said he picked them up In Montpelier
her and take unto himself for a wife and didn't know who they were. People
one Anna Smith of Topsham. The re- who witnessed the accident said that two
spondent was an old acquaintance of the men were in the little car
witness and the witness also at one time In explaining the circumstances lead-
knew an Anna Smith of Topsham, but ing up to the accident, Ladd said that
did not know at the time they were con- yesterday was his first day on the trail
versing that the Anna Smith he once of the jitney nickel and would probably
knew was then Anna Felch. Witness be his last in that particular line of en
said he was advised of that fact however, deavor. Police headquarters was advised
when ho talked with nis wile on arrivirg
home that night.
Sheriff Reed followed Jenkins on the
stand. He testified to taking the re
spondent from the county jail around
May 10, to his former home in Waits
River, where Williams led the officer to
a certain room, took up some floor boards
ami found a bottle that originally had
contained morphine. Which bottle, and
of the accident as soon as it happened
and Officer John W. Dineen went to
Brook street and investigated.
RUN OVER BY TRUCK.
William Spence Received Injuries to Both
Feet.
DROWNING AT ISLAND POND.
MAY SEIZE GERMAN SHIPS
Archie Turgeon, Aged 17, Jumped from
Canoe.
Island Pond, July 24. Archie Tur
geon, 17-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Turgeon, was drowned yesterday
afternoon while swimming from a ca
noe. In company with a companion, Tur
geon was out in the canoe clad in a
bathing suit. The boys had been swim
ming for some time when they tipped
the canoe over and started to swim
ashore. Tivgeon evidently was seized
with cramps, for after calling for help
once, he went down.
William Spence of South Barre is at
its alleged contents, it is said, may play the City hospital receiving treatment l'cr
an important part in the so-called con- a tractureu toe on tne ngnt loot and a
fession. broken instep on the left foot as the re-
Dr. C. F. Whitney then testified as to suit of a mishap w hich occurred while he
the finding of blood stains on the boots was alighting from tho street department
already shown bv the state to be tne motor tractor on South Main street late
boots worn by -the respondent on the Saturday afternoon. With other city la -
j night of the tragedy. The chemist tcs- borers Spence was emerging from Boyn-
tided that he was unable to state wheth- ton street aboard the tnick. i'erley
er or not it was human blood, as the Witham was driving the car and as they
amount was so limited that he was un- neaied the Main street, Spence moved
able to make an analysis that would de- U get off and walk to his home. The
termine whether it was human blood driver told him he would stop the car as
or the blood of some 'lower animal. A soon as the- reached the turn, but the
handerehief was also identified by the car was still moving when Spence
witness as an article placed in his pos- climbed from the cab to the hub of a
session by Deputy Sheriff Gale of Brad- fore wheel.
ford, who had already identified it, as I Somehow he lost his balance and foil
one he found in the Williams house in a to the ground, the wheel put-sing over
drawer with men's attire only. From both feet. The car was stopped almost
this handerehief many portions had been instantly. Four doctors ministered to
cut out, holes which Dr. Whitney testi- Spence, either at the scene of the aeri
fied he cut out himself for the purpoo dent or at the hospital, whither he was
of determining whether or not the blood removed at once. In addition to the
was human blood. In closing Dr. Whit- fractures, Spence received a deep gash
ney testified that his analysis showed on the right knee when he slipped on
the blood to be human blood.
FUNERAL HELD AT CHURCH.
He was abofit 17 years old and was
born in Island Pond, living here with t Services for Miss Tessie Robertson Held
his parents most ot his lite and was
employed in shops of the Grand Trim!;
railroad.
BANK CASHIER A SUICIDE
Brazilians Are Showing III Will Because
of Tea Seizure.
Bio Janeiro, July 24. The question of
requisitionizing German ships in the Bra
zilian ports will shortly be taken up by
the Brazilian Congress. The shipping is
estimated to be worth $20,000,000. The
question Is due to ill will against Ger
many because of the seizure of Brazilian
tea by Germany.
Clarence E. Culver of Great Barrington,
Mass., Was Overworked.
Great Barrington, Mass., July 24.
Clarence E. Culver, acting cashier of the
Xational bank here, shot and killed him
self while alone in the bank office yester
day. Since the resignation of the presi
dent and cashier of the bank several
months ago. Culver has performed their
duties. Police believe he was mentally
unbalanced from overwork.
Sunday.
The funeral of Miss Jessie Robertson,
who passed away at her home on Perriu
street Friday morning, after a lingering
illness, was held at the Barre C'ongn na
tional church Sunday afternoon at 2:3u
o'clock, Rev. F. A. Poole of Worcester,
Mass., a former pastor, officiating. Pre
viously, a prayer service ras held at
the hub.
Chairman E. C. Glysson of the alder
manic street committee and Street Supt.
J. S. Wilson investigated the accident
and decided that culpability did not rest
with the driver. It was the lirst mishap
to occur since the truck was purchased.
BARRE RESIDENT 25 YEARS.
Joseph Rabadeau Died Sunday After a
Long Illness.
Joseph Rabadeau. for 25 years ji resi
dent of Barre, died at the City hospital
the house. During the church services j Mmday morning at J o clock., l ie cou
Touowinn a nnu uiness. .n-
WASHINGTON.
FREIGHT STEAMER ASHORE
BRITISH PAID HEAVILY
For Few Houses in Pozieres They Occu
pied Sunday.
Berlin. Julv 24. The onlv advantage
gained by the Brili-h on the Nimme
front Sunihv. uv the frfuinn state-
road j mcnt. was the penetration of a few
hkhlhoiws in rozieres, for which they paid
With heavy losses,
CASEMENT APPEAL DENIED.
Attorney General Smith Intimates Prob
Ahl Artinn
Dr. E. H. Bancroft of South Barr
London, July 24. Mr Frederick Smith, iva. called here Sunday on professional
attorney general, has intimated to Sir business.
Roger Casements alienor that he j An .. f ,h1 atn tnrk w,i(h Easfport. Me., July 24.-The freight
unable to grant his fiat which would en-,. . on , , t, ... steamer Tyne is ashore near Grand Ma-
put it out of commission. I"n- " vem on "'' Pe r"i? tog
Mrs. Bradley sang two selections a:id
Miss Gladys Gale played the organ.
There was a profusion of flowers. The
bearers were: Alfred McKay, George
Mackay, William Li-tourneau, Sheldon
Brown, Raymond ishart and John Mc
Carthy. Interment was made in the
family lot in Hope cemetery.
Struck During Fog But Is Expected to
Be Floated.
able Casement's appearance against the !
death sentence that was passed on him
for hightreason.
had been in declining health for several
months and seven weeks ago he was re
moved to the hospital. He is survived
by his wife, who was Miss Margaret
Price, and to whom he was married in
Middleburv June 0. 171. and a daugh
ter. Mrs. Emery IJMidry of South Barre.
Three sisters surviving are: Mrs. Da
vid ljramie of !is Angeles, tab. Mrs.
Silas Matott of Barre and Mrs. Samuel
Jeannette of Coopersville, X. Y.; and
there are also left --ix grandchildren and
Vvnen nis younger brother, uwiglifc
Moody, aged 13, was seized with crainu
while bathing in Dog river, betweuu
Xorthfield Falls and West Berlin yester
day afternoon, Richard Moody, aged 14,
went to his rescue and both wera
drowned. It is supposed that the latter
became exhausted in his efforts or was
pulled down by the drowning lad. They
were the sons of Mr. and Mrs. William
II. Moody of 57 South Main street,
Barre.
Richard Moody had been employed on.
the farm of William Davis, and on Sat
urday Dwight went from this city to
that place, intending to take Richard's
place on the Davis farm while Richard
accepted a similar position on I. M.
Buck's farm nearby. Yesterday after
noon, in company with the young son of
Charles Hehert, the two Barre boys went
in swimming in the river near the Heberfc
place. After a short time Dwight be
came attacked with cramp and on Liu
calls for assistance Richard bravely went
to the rescue, while the Hebert boy, who
was considerably younger,' rushed away
for aid for the two, who were struggling
in deep water.
By the time aid was brought the wat
er had closed over the heads of the twn
Moody youths and as the Hebert boy
was not able closely to identify Uie spot
where he last saw them the searcher
spent much time in futile efforts to drag
the bottom of the river. Their efforts :
were further handicapped by the muddy
condition of the water. A boat was
brought and many men went into the
water, but it was not until 6 o'clock
last evening, over three hours after thd
drowning, that the bodies were brought
to the surface by means of grappling
hooks.
Health Officer A. S. Xorton of the town,
of Berlin, the place being in that town,
was present, as well as one of the select
men, and those officials gave permission
for the removal of the bodies to the un
dertaking rooms of C. P. Hatch in Xorth
field. The burial is to be in the family
lot in Waterbury.
The Moodv family had resided in
Xorthfield for many years, until three
years ago when they came to this city.
Mr. Moody is a stonemason by occupa
tion and also was employed as a special
policeman in Xorthfield, as well as at thu
fair grounds there. Mr. and Mrs. Moody
have five other children, as follows:
Madge, who is employed in a granite
office in West Berlin; Beatrice, who is
employed in the Xew England Telephone
company's office in Burlington, Rcna, also
of Burlington, who is employed in tho
shop of the Crystal Confectionery com
pany; Robert, who is a member of Co.
F, Vermont Xational Guard, is now at
Ka-le Pass., Tex., and Randall, a school
1mh who resides with his parents in
Barre.
Barre police headquarters was notified
of the tragedy by a telephone messago
from West Berlin Sunday afternoon at .1
o'clock. While Chief Sinclair was char
tering an automobile to make the trip
to West Berlin, Officer Harry Gambia
went fo the Moody home and notified the
parents of what had happened. Around
4 o clock Chief Sinclair and James John
ston, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs.
Moodv. set out for the scene of tho .
drowning. Mrs. Moody was in a serious
condition on the way over and it was
with difficulty that she composed her
feelings sufficiently to complete the jour
ncv. Chief Sinclair and Mr. Johnston
remained at the river until the bodies
were recovered, returnine home at 6:3
o'clock. Mr. and Mrs. Moody reniainel
in Xorthfield.
DROWNED WHILE CAMPING.
Warden Hatch, 18, of St. Johnsbury Was
the Victim.
PURSUED BY FIREBUG
Fall River Concern Has Second Big Fire
in a Week.
Fall River, Mas July 24v The big
storehouse owned by the Bay State Shel
POP BOTTLE MUST GO.
L. D. Tillotson spent Sunday with 1 is
daughter. Alhe. at Chelsea.
As Mrs. Mitchell wa driving B. F
Smith's pair of horses Saturdav after
noon, near Alfred Dashner's. the bolt i:i!But It wm Not Go jn ,he Direction 0f
the end of the g"n pole which held: . .
theneekyokecsmeMit,an1athe horses! 1 umpire,
started to run away she lot control of To'edo. July 24. The assault on I'm
them. Thev pr'-eiied to the villaee at d pire Jolmwn t the American association
c company, whose main plant here wtstb.dte.1 into the barn of F. V. Hut-h:n-n, psrk result in the elimination of t ie
destroved br fire Thursdav. was burned land against the auto of H. S. Smith, in- pop bottle, according to the slvklel l rs
trt-dav. I he causes oi tne nres are tin- luring it to some extent. Otherwise uj oi the cluo.
determined. daunts rcAwtA-L,
two niete.
The deceased wa born in Coopersvil'.r,
V Y . around i.' vears ago. As a young i
man he learned the Mono mason's tr.de' Fast Darnet, July 24. Warden Hatch,
and before coming to Barre he resided aged IS, 'n ot W illiam Hatch of St.
in Champlain. During several years of .lohiisbiiry. khs drowned here yesterday
liia residence here he
sexton at the talholic
nrior to his last illness he
ss a fireman at
was entned as. while camming. 'ie w rked lor 1 rel
cemetery an 1 : Lindsey. and with Lindsev's son, t.ui.
was employed j was tryinji to shuot the rapids abo ;
Hotel Barre. He ho- jKovV. mill, when their canoe overturn, i.
longed to the Mason's union. St. John the . Undscy reached shore ssf.ly. but Hatc'.i
Baptist society and the Catholic chun 'i. j went down an.l it is thought he was ur
Funeral services will lc held in St. ried oer the dam. Partie have dra; d
Monica' rhurch We.lnet.lay morninu at the river s-n.-e. but the bc!y l.as not been
! oYl'xk. the parish pn--t. V.e. V. M. ;re. erc.L Hatch a scpli,,m.re ,:!;
McKrnna. officiating. Inf.rnunt wiil l-e the ail .ti-ult-iral . I.ool at I.yud it
A jMiper substitute will ie 'made in the Catholic cemetery on Both- Center. veid,-. hi lather be 1 avct a
Utf Utmi. fci.r atid feeler.
O
