c7 r7
Mnt4m
mail!
From San Francisco .
Sit tria Maru. Nov. 10
For San Francisco
Nippon Maru. Nov. 10
From Vancouver :
ijakura. Nov. 29.
For Vancouver
Makura. Nov. 10.
rrO?
Evening Bulletin. Est. UH2, No.
Hawaiian Star. 'Vol. XXIV. No. 767
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, TUESDAY, XU'K.M BEII 7, 1110.-12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
WW
mm
bvl WUV WWW
' MAUI GOE
LEADS R
i IU1 Edition
f3
REPUBLICAN, COOECE
TWO BIG GERMAN
DREADNOUGHTS HIT,
SKIPPER REPORTS
British Submarine Commander
Tells of Torpedoing Vessels;
V Doesn't Know Damage
BUCHARESTXLAIMS ;
SUCCESS IN DOBRUDJA
District Where Von Mackensen
is Operating Scene of
Hof Fighting
(AxKOrliU'd rrn iy Federal Wireles)
LONDON, Eng., Nov. 7- That two
German dreadnoughts ere struck by
British torpedoes Instead of one, as
first reported, Is the report now riade
by a British submarine commander
to the admiralty. He says that both
cf the great warships were of the Kai
ser class. He does not know the fate
of the , vessels. VThe torpedoing l
said to have taken place in the r?rrth
Sea. -.
The Kaiser la of 24,310 tons dis
placement, unl was completed In 11)12.
AUSTRIAN AND ITALIAN
WAR-VESSELS SUNK IN
DEADLY DUEL ON THE SEA
ROM E, Italy, Nov. 7. An Austrian
submarine and an Italian destroyer
have been sunk In a duel, presumably
In the Adriatic Sea. The submarine
attempted to torpedo an Italian trans
port, which escaped. The majority
of the crew of the destroyer were res
cued.': From the submarine 13 were
taken prisoners. ,
RUMANIANS PRESS BACK
. GERMANS IN DOBRUDJA
".':' BUCHAREST, Rumania, Nov. 7.
The Rumanians on the Dobrudja dis
trict are containing their successes
against Gen. von Mackensen's Gernim
Bulgarlan forces. They have made
progress on . the entire Dobrudja
' front.
BERLIN REPORT TELLS
OF RUSSIAN SITUATION
RERUN, Germany, Nov. 7. The
Russians have forced back the Teu
tons In the region of Tulghes.
Ves,t of Bodza pass, on the Trausyl
vanlan front, the Teutons have gained.
The capture of a bridge-head on the
IJtockhod river, Russian southeastern
front, i8 reported. Russian artillery
today was active between Dvinsk and
Inke Narocz.' . .
JP The BTltlsh made an attack near
- Eaucourt L'Abbaye, but it was repuls
' d. -'-- i .
4
--4
I
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS
BERLIN, Germany, Nov. 5. The
German admiralty reports that a sub
marine on October 23, west of Ireland,
destroyed a small English cruiser of
the Elber type, with two funnels.
GERMAN ARMY HEADQUART
ERS, Nov. 6. On the Somme today
. - if V .111. t
I iit'ro was a continuous umue irum
' yesterday. The French and English
with their strongest forces and using
their whole firing strength made a
powerful advance against the front of
Gen. von Be ulow's array.. The troops
of different parts of Germany, under
Gens. Baron Marschall, von Delmling
and von Garnler withstood the as
saults unshaken and inflicted a severe
defeat on the enemy. Parts of the
Strassbourg corps. Saxony, Baden, and
from Berlin and Hansaito and Meinin
gen infantry regiments gained special
distinction. The Allies on the whole
front' from Lesars to Bouchavesnes,
about 20 kilometers, suffered heavy
losses and accomplished nothing ex
cept a small local gain north of a part
of St. Pierre Vaast wood. Wherever
the enemy in other places advanced
into our "line they were immediately
ejected and left 10 officers and 310
men and much booty In our hands,
f Northeast of Lesars more than 70
prisoners and 11 machine guns were
brought In. Near Soissons the attack
' of the feeble French detachment was
repulsed. 1
On the Crown Prince front, right
of Meuse, in the Hardamont sector,
there was violent artillery and hand
grenade fighting today.
Eastern war theater. Prince Leo
nold's front: No important events.
Archduke Carl's front: Engage
ments In Toelgyes sector and be
tween Altschanz and Bozda pass road
went on today without change in the
situation. Southwest of Predeal we
,'. conquered the height of Laomu and
made further progress southeast of
Rotenthurm pass. On both sides of
Szdurk pass Rumanian attacks were
repulsed. We took prisoner on south
front more than 450 men.
In' Balkans, nothing new.
LATE NEWSILITIA HEADS
VILLA BANDITS MURDER
POWERLESS AMERICANS
( A ill 1 J'r ly F-lral Wiivt-") ' -Tl'CSON,
i Ariz.. Nov. 7,-Arthur
Williams, agent for an automobile j
house at Chihuahua, arrived nere yes
terady in a battered automobile after
he had been chased by Villa bandit
l harpsliooters in another car. A
woman and Williams' little daughter
were killed. Williams' wife was killed
at Chihuahua before the chasv
ANOTHER OUTRAGE
LAID TO VILLISTAS
. Mrxciatil Vrf-vn by Federal Wie!i):
EL PASO, Tex., Nov. 7. Sixty
teven bars of silver, valued at $."0.
ooOj belonging to the American Mill
ing Company of Parral, are reiorted
to have been taken from Edgar Koch
by Villa bandits on October 27. Koch
is said to be the German consular
agent at Parral.
AUTO THIEF MAY
HAVE MET ACCIDENT
Sur-Bulletia Special by Mutual Wireless)
.HILO, T. II, Nov. 7. John T. Moir s
.automobile was stolen last night and
discovered today overturned ! In the
bushes at Waiaitea. There was much
blood on the seat and on a raincoat
In the car bnt.no sign of the thief.
HILO MEN IN STREET
FIGHT OVER ROADS
SUr-Bulletln Special by Mutcal Wireless
HILO, Hawaii, Nov. 7. Norman K.
Lyman, candidate for the house of
representatives on the : Republican
ticket, and Land Agent Andrews had a
fight on the street this morning in a
row about road matters.
Not a pound of wool and only 22
through first-cabin passengers were
on board the Oceanic liner Sonoma,
Capt. J. 1L Trask, when she docked at
Pier 10 about 3 o'clock this morning,
delayeJ an hour and a half by the
strong trades which have been blow
ing s!nce Sunday. She will not steam
fcr Saa Francisco until S o'clock to
night, taking the next mail, r
Officers of the steamer said the
wool embargo Is still on in Australia
and also that people of military age
are not allowed to leave the country, j
There Is a heavy list of second-cabin
passengers, however, 74, of whom 16
or' 17 are Greeks whose shops in
Sydney were wrecked recently by
mobs angry at Greece's neutrality.
"They are getting out while the going
is good,' remarked Purser H. J.
Holtz. ;
One Greek, a man named Carydis,
died of Brigbts disease three days ago
and was buried at sea. The Sonoma's
through cargo from . Sydney Is light,
5C0 tons. At Pago-Pago, however, 362
weight tons of copra, 7420 bags, were
loaded and here the liner is taking on
S00 tons more,' of canned . and fresh
pines, sugar, bananas, junk and gen
eral cargo. Passengers out ; tonight
from Honolulu ?:ill be 30 cabin and 10
steerage. . .
NEW YORKER SAYS
"LOOKS WILSON"
A Honolulu attorney this morning
received a night letter from a New
York, businessman, who is also a
Democratic politician, a Marconigram
declaring that the best information in
his possession is that the election will
go for Wilson. His message says :
"New York Herald poll shows 307
delegates Wilson, 224 Hughes, on re
turns equaling 1 per cent of the popu
lar vote. The New York Times and
the New York Evening Post consider
Ohio Democratic and Indiana, Illinois,
New York and Connecticut doubtful.
The odds are 10 to 8 on Hughes and
there is plenty of Wilson money. Best
information is Wilson will win."
Election Day
Extra !
f 4 4 4 4 4 4 t 4 4 44 4 4 4 4
4 Early mainland election re- 4
4 turns ?vre expected to reach Ho- 4
4 nolulu about 4:30 or 5 o'clock this 4
4 afternoon and the Star-Bulletin 4
4 will issue a 5 o'clock Election 4
4 Extra, carrying such news of the 4
4 presidential rnd state contests as 4
4 has arrived end the latest gener-4
4 al world and war news. i 4
444 ttt 4 44444 4444 44
GREEKS FLEEING
FROM AUSTRALI A
ABOARD SONOMA
SEND RULES ON
DRILL STRENGTH
Numbers Based on 60 Per Cent
of Average Enrolment of
Men and Officers
WAR SECRETARY WILL
PRESCRIBE INSTRUCTION
Commanding Officers to Keep
Monthly Record of Armory
, Attendance
; Information relative to the neces
sary strength of militia companies,
detachments, etc., which is requisite
at drills in order that' militiamen will
be in line for pay from the govern
ment was received today ; by Hawaii
National Guard officers who have
been anxiously awaiting its coming
for a month. , " : ' " ;.
Generally speuking, it requires that
for a six-month period there shall be
an average attendance of 60 er cent
for enlisted men and 5o per cent for
officers, of the average enrollment
for the six-month period.
The orders which were received
from the acting chief , of the militia
bureau at . Wasnlngton. D. C, are in
part as follows:
Attendance at Drill
For officers and men of a company,
a troop, battery or detachment, the
attendance at armory drills for each
semi-annual period must exceed 50
per cent of the authorized minimum
commissioned peace strength of the
company, etc., for officers, and be not
less than 60 per cent of the author
ized mlnimumenllsted peace strength
of the company, etcf for "enlisted men,
provided, that credit for attendance
at drills shall not be given unless the
period of actual military instruction
participated in by each officer and
enlisted man at each assembly, exclu
sive of rests and Interruptions, is at
least one and cne-half hours in dura
tion, and provided that the character
of the Instruction is such as may be
prescribed by the secretary of war.
Where the enrolled enlisted strength
of a company, etc., exceeds the mini
mum strength prescribed by the war
department, the percentages set forth
above shall be required on the aver
age enrolled strength of the company,
etc., for the semi-annual period. Cred
it for drill attendance of company of
ficers and eninted men will not be
allowed on account of time occupied
with correspondence schools or for at
tendance at schools : for off icers and
non-commissioned officers.
Must Keep Records
The commanding officer of each
company, etc., shall keep a monthly
record of armory attendance, in tripli
cate, of each officer and enlisted man
of his organization at every drill or
assembly for instruction, showing the
name of the person, the date of the
drill, the period during which he was
actually present and under instruc
tion in uniform, and the character, of
the drill and instruction for the entire
period. This roster of attendance cer
tified to by the senior officer on duty
with the organization will be again
certified by the battalion commander
or officer of corresponding command,
providing be is on duty at the station
of the company, and delivered or
mailed to the 1 egimental commander
immediately after the last drill or in
struction of each month. Regimental
or separate battalion, etc., command
ers will forwaul the original reports
of attendance dnectly to the chief of
the imilitia bmsau, and the duplicate
copies to the adjutant general of the
state. The triplicate copies will be
retained in the crganization records.
OR. WU ELECTED
FOREIGN MINISTER
(Associated Press by Fflpral "Vir-le)
PEKING, China, Nov. 7 Wu Ting
Fang, the noted Chinese statesman,
was jtoday elected minister of foreign
affairs of the republic by a virtually
unanimous vote of parliament.
GERMAN SUBMARINE IN
FOG RUNS ASHORE AND
IS BLOWN UP BY CREW
((lerman Official)1.
BERLIN, Germany, Nov. 7. On the
evening of November 4, according to
report of the German admiralty, the
submarine U-20 in consequence of fog
ran j aground at Bobjerg, on the west
Jutland coast. All attempts to float
her jbeing futile she called for assist
ance and the torpedo-boats tried to
drag her off but were unsuccessful;
Therefore the submarine on Novem
ber 5 at noon was blown up, after the
crew had' been rescued by a torpedo
boat; - : :
For
mu
ASltr Bulletin by Mutual VirlrsO
WAILUKU, Maui, Nov. 7. Returns from amall precincts already count
ed, Olovwalu and Honolua, show that the voting favors the Republican can
didate by an average of 40 to 23. George P. Cooke, candidate for the sen
ate cn the Republican ticket, is lead ing Dr. Raymond by a big margin in
both precincts, with Harry Baldwin, Republican, also well in the lead.
Delegate Kuhto is polling most of the vote for delegate, McCandless
getting two out of 33 in Olowalu and seven out of 59 in Honolua.
LIHUE, Kauai, Nov. 7. Forecast at 2 o'clock is that Kuhio will get
750 votes on Kauai, McCandless 450. , Coney and Chandler, opponents for
the senate, very close, and the Republican house ticket safe.
Maui "Sample Ballot" Row Grows;
Voter Stopped in
4-
i...
(Special by Mutual Wireless)
WAILUKU, Maul, Nov. 7. There was excitement in a polling
booth at Wailuku this morning when a young Hawaiian, K. Ohialau,
was stopped from leaving the booth with a senatorial sample ballot
and official ballots folded together in his pocket, after he had depos
ited his representative ticket.
He was stopped by Inspector Manuel Ross. The voter is a bit '
"loony."
Dr. J. H. Raymond, Democratic candidate for senate, whose charges
of illegal use of a "sample "ballot" caused Secretary Thayer to wire
less warning from Honolulu to the election officials, has made com
plaint to th county attorney, who has refused to act. The county
attorney says the attempt made by Ohialau was not illegal.
Raymond claims that four federal detectives are here watching
for fraudulent voting. He made a summary statement at Wailuku
last night to a crowd of 500, where fair warning was read.
Harry A. Baldwin, candidate for senator on the Republican ticket,
is scomful of the story that fraudulent voting has been attempted.
He declares it absolutely false and a despeats resort of Raymond,
the latter seeing himself beaten.
The tension at the Wailuku polls is marked.
LIGHT VOTE QUIETLY
ELECTION 1 OAIIU'S TWO DISTRICTS
Slates and Combinations Are Reported But No Open Evidence
of Deals is to Be Found at Most Polling Places Bond
Issue is Not Openly Fought By Democrats Though Largest
Part of Vote on Questions Will Come From Republicans
Quiet election and a rather light
vote were the reports generally receiv
ed from the various precincts of the
fourth and lifth districts after they
had been visltt! by representatives of
the Star-BulloT'n this morning. There
warj little ojxn slate nuikiag seen, but
in some districts there aro report;? of
votes, irrespective cf party affilia
tions, being thrown for some particU'
lar candidate or candidates. Such re
ports were difficult If not imposaible
of cmfirmation. ;
Light Vote Cast
Respite reports that lat.'. were to
be framed ncne were in evidence in
the fourth district today so far as
could be ascertained by close observa
tion. : Harmony and quiet mirked the
voting in the fourtn throughout the
ej.t'y. Up to noon the voting was light,
S-3.V to 9:30 o'clock beui? , tbo rush
hour. No disturbancos of any nature
ere reported. At many of the pre
cincts, especially the sixth, large
crowds gathered, bur the t-rowds were
orderly.
So far as could bo learned the Dem
ocrats made no open fight at tne poll
ing places against the b -nd issue. Re
ports from the various, precincts of
the fourth are that a steady vote is
being cast for the bond is.-ue although
sonie of the voters, largely . Democrats,
openly declared they would have nt th
ing to do with this phase of the v ting.
Governor Pinkham Votes
Governor Mnkham voted at the fifth
of the fourth. He. was in the boctn
only a short time, "Jack" Lurss ca3t
the first vote' in this precinct. The
fifth was his headquarters a large part
of the day. Those men in charge of
the booth in the fifth sav ti t cTlv
this morning several women tailed
Watch Star-Bulletin's Election Night
Returns on King Street, West of Fort-
t f '4 4 f -f
:' V ' - 1.
-f Election night returns, covering the presidential and state 'con
- tests, as well as 'the territorial political fight, will be shown tonight
by the Star-Bulletin from its special election headquarters on King
street, west of Fort. The returns will be flashed on a big illumi-4-
nated screen on the front of Dimond & Co.'s building. Everybody is
f invited to join the crowd everybody welcome.
The Star-Bulletin's election headquarters telephone number is
'. 4841 t'y'
- Election officials and watchers at the polls are requested to tele
f phone returns to this number. By early telephoning quick and accu-
rate news can be given the crowds watching the returns. 1
The Associated Press will 'flash1' mainland election news to
Honolulu throughout the evening, and the jsland voting will be sent
-.by Mutual Wireless. :
Returns will be put on the screen as soon as dusk come3 and
continued until the figures are all in.
V t t t T t t.t t
Vote
Republicans
Booth at Wailuku
.- 1
CAST
at the voting place, asserting that'
they intended to vote. They appeared
1 . I, n .l tk.i dnnlil
i iiagi jiicu wiicii iuiu iiiai iuc; vuuju
net vote.
t'p to noon today more than 1"00
votes had been cast.
FOURTH DISTRICT
First Precinct 10:35 a. m, ISO
votes cast. Voting in the first was
fairly heavy throughout the morning.
It was reported that the vote on the
bend issue was steady, no one declin
ing to vote on the proposals.
Second Precinct 10:20 a. m., 123
votes cast. Several voters asserted
openly that they would note vote for
the bond issue. The voting wa3 light
throughout the morning, the heaviest
voting being between 8:30 and 9':3
o'clock. Delegate Kuhio and Former
Mayor J. J. Fern voted here. The dele
gate said he is satisfied he will be
elected.
Third Precinct 10:50 a. m, t-r2
votes cast. Voting here was fairly
neavy, wnn a sieaay vote on me cona
.Issue. A oig rush of late voters was
expected after the noon hour.
Fourth Precinct 10. rj a. m., 1
votes cast. A fairly heavy vote was
polled here during the morning.
Those in charge of the polling place
reported none of tnose registered had
expressed refusal to vote on the .bona
issue." -
Fifth Precinct 1 1 a. m., 1271 votes
cast. "Jack" Lucas was the first one
to vote. It was reported b.re that a
number of those' who votd early in
the morning assented theyf would have
nothing to do with . the Ibond issue.
Voting was fairly light;' during the
mornin?. Vti -
Sixth Precincty-ir:20 a. m., 200
(Continued, on page two)
4-
4 I
4
4'
4
4
IRS
CLOSE FIGHT IS INDICATED 01!
EARLY RETURNS: KANSAS VOTE
DIVIDED; COUNTIS INCOMPLETE
NEW YORK, MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES. WESTERN AND
SOUTHERN PORTIONS OF NATION ALL REPORT UNUS
UALLY LARGE VOTING FAIR WEATHER GENERALLY
PREVAILS
nn.urnx.
" (AiaocUua ffcta Srtr by Ffdrral WirlM)
Ni:V VOKK. N. V.. Nov. 7.- Krtuins fn.m si'v'iit''ii ditri t
iff ::;SO outsil' tlu itv ivc Unpin s .'it )M I, Wilson ItlOS. Iuronilt'tv
No returns from titv v.
srili:Ni:tTA!V, N. Y.. Nov.
1SS, Wilson I.'JT. hn oinpU'lf.
I'll HWISO, HI.. Nov. 7. -Sriinloi- Wnlsli tolay ni;ul' 'nilii a
tt-lt'rain from Denver on n'hirns conntiNl lionrlv, ! Taring thai imli
ations a iv .Hint Wilson has ri,,-',"'fi,l, " :'MHJl.
rtHIT S'OTT, Kansas. Nov. 7. lnoniilclt ivlurns from all
nim jitvrinrls Iiciv .iv Wilson 111 l.'l votes ;tul llujilies litli. .
KANSAS (MTV. Kan.. Nov. 7. Ten , out, of LOS precinrtK in
Wyainlolte eounty jjive lluIies HIS votes ami Wilson 407. 1
LI:AVI:NW()UTH, Kansas, Now 7. Incoiiiplete returns from
feveu 'out of Y.l niinls jr'ive Wilson HOI and 1 lushes J'J)1).
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Nov. 7. First rehifns on the presiden
tial elation today; as Hashed from various cities of the country, show
p big vote cast, ' with the incomplete-count indicating nothing either
way.
Villi' X'HI" X A ,... T
hwlav" in this stale uiul in Hie M idlle Atlantic, westenv and southern
states. ':;' ';''--,"'; ; '-.
-Charles E. Hughes at- a few
his polling-booth in an Eighth avenue laundry and was given a ballot.
He voted . number 'l.'t in the list of those balloting. When his atten
tion was called to the fact that he had casMtallot '.V he said. "And
I was Isirn on FHdav, too."
Topeka Gives Hughes Early Lead
(Atfociattd Pri Servlc bj Federal Wireleia) .
TOPEKA, Kansas. Nov. 7. Incomplete, returns'. from 2T out of
32 precincts in the city of 'Topeka. gives Hughes a lead, with 1'iSJ) to
J)74 for Wilson. This city is normally Republican.
1. TI'RP:i!'ti:il 4111 tit of 1?7 iirerincts yives I 111 "lies !i)7Jt and
m m m w ---- -
Wilson
Wichita Starts off For Wilson
. (AatooUted Pretn Serlci by Federal WireUee)' .
WICHITA, Kansas. Nov. 7. The Kansas system of counting un
der the double election board plan is in ojieration hen with returns
incomplete for the city. In the vote so far tabulated, 1 6uTf 20
precincts in Wichita give Wilson SSll and Hughes 4 H. . y
LATER Incomplete returns from 2(1 .precincts give Wilson? 10St)
and Hughes 80S. .' '; '."v;
President Cheered at Princeton
(AiUted Prtiw Serrle b Federal Wlreleea)
PRINCETON, N. J., Nov. 7. President Woodrow Wilson voted
here early this morn i ng. He was at fended by a large group of friends
'V'rwl untf if i.hntnnf!iiilirM-s iiiul movie canicf:i men crowded around
v- I r--i
him to take his picture'-in various attitudes. He was cheered by the
students vociferously.
Mrs. Wilson accompanied the president. After voting he return
ed to Shadow Iiwn in his automobile.
Weather is Generally Fair Today
NEW YORK. X. Y., Nov. 7. The weather is generally fair today
.-throughout the country, except in the upixr Mississippi valleywhere
it is cloudy and thi-eatening, with light showers, and in Western Colo
rado and Wyoming. Here thei-e is some snow and an early vote has
tx'U the result. ; ' -
Massachusetts Beoins For Hushes
NEW ASIIFORD, Mass., Nov. 7. The first returns from 23 rot,
ers show .that Hughes got 1 votes and Wilson 7.
The voting in New England today is heavy.
LATER latest count, with one-third of the city tabulated, gives
Hnl.c l!r'f nnd Wilson 17.57.
NO STOCK MARKET
-Today being a national election and
a legal holiday in all parts of the
United States there have been held
no business sessions of any stock or
other exchanges in any cities of tne
country and the New York stsck list
is therefore omitted.
. Thursday, Nov. ha3 been named
as payday, at Sjhofield Ilarracks. Capt.
Thomas R.' Harder, with an assistant,
will officiate as paymaster.
7. One .lislriil Unv iv's Hulios
T
i 1 1 .. ,.y4 ...mf
:' ,;-:.-'
minutes after 7 this morniug entered
- - - - -
'' ' t
G. (LP. CANDIDATE
FOR COtlGRESS DIES
(Associated Preaa by Federal Wirles)
' GRAND ISLAND, Neb., Nov. 7.
S. R. Barton, Republican candidate for
Congress, died here today of acute
pneumonia, contracted from making
an outdoor speech at night.
