7 1
MAILS
From San Francisco
KiN rla Maru. Nov. 10
FoMian Francisco
Nippon Maru.- Nov. pi
From Vancouver
Makura, Nov. 29.
For Vancouver
Makura, Nov. 10.
Kvcrjing Bulletin. Est. 1S2. No .:
Hawaiian' Star. Vol. XXIV. "No T' 07
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, TUESDAY, XOVKMIUIK 7, l!lt;.-12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
-3
Y7
000
ox
2:30
Edition
V? ..... .
ITM JL J
1
1
D) L:
n ) i rTVi rV! 1 11 I l
Li U lJ
II il II I V I - M I I I I 1 ft I
mm mm v - a mm mm mm, m m m
LJ UUU ' U U V .UU
OO oo oo
1 l.
NEW ENGLAND AND
TWO BIG GERMAN
D50MISJ";
mrw litmus;
British Submarine Commander j
Tells of Torpedoing Vessels; !
Doesn't Know Damage J
BUCHAREsfcLAIMS I
SUCCESS IN DOBRUDJA)
District Where Von Mackenscn!
is Operating Scene of
Hot Fighting
( AnKoriatrl Prnn br Fedpril Wirt-le..)
LONDON, Eng., Nov. 7. That two
German dreadnoughts were struck by
British torpedoes instead cf one, as
first reported. Is the report now rude
by a British submarine commander
to "the admiralty. He says that both
cf the QTtt warships were of the Kai
ser data. ; He does not know the fate
of the vessels. The torpedoing i
said to'have taken place in the f orth
Sea. '
The Kaiser is cf , 24,310 tons dis
daccroent, .m l was completed In 1912.
AUSTRIAN AND ITALIAN
WAR-VESSELS SUNK IN
DEADLY DUEL ON THE SEA:
HOME, Italy, Nov. 7. An Austrian '
rubmarine and an Italian destroyer ;
have been sunk in a duel, presumably j
'"la 'the Adriatic Sea. .The submarine ,
attempted to torpedo an Italian trans-.'
1-oit. whjrh escaped. The majority
of thjrcrew cZ the destroyer wen? ics.
'cued. From tHeubrriarine 13 ere
taken prisencrs. .-;
RUMANIANS PRESS BACK
GERMANS IN DOBRUDJA
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Nov. 7.
Tho Rumanians on the Dobrudja dis
trict' are continuing their, successes
against Gen von Mackenscn 's Gernnn
Bulgarian forces. They have mado
progress on the entire DobruJja
iront. . - .
BERLIN REPOR TELLS
, : OF RUSSIAN SITUATION
BERLIN. Germany, Nov. 7 The
Russians have forced back the Teu
tons in the region of fulghes.
West of Bodza pass, on the Transyl
vanian frcnt, the Teutons have gfalmd.
iue capture oi a Dnage-iiead on tne
' v i " ...i.i i i . t i .i ,
frcnt, is reported. Russian artillery
tcday was active between Dvinsk and
like Narocz.
The DTitish made an attack near
Eaucourt L'Abbaye, but It was ri u'&
od.
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS
Sunday's Report
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS. Nov.
. r.-On the Somme front artillery ac
tivity extended today north of Ancre
and reached north of the Somme with
preat violence. In general, the hostile
attacks were repulsed. On the crown
prince's front, towns behind our lines
not evacuated by the people have
been frequently shelled from Rheims.
We answered vesterdav acainst tl.is
place.
In the eastern war theater. Princ1'
Iopold's front: A well prepared
srrall enterprise gave us almost with
out losses possession of the il1agc
e- i. i a rri ia .
! k ni MosueKi. ne enemy leu mere
tli an 6 prisoners and several tna
'. chine gun and mine-throwers In or
hands.
In northern Transylvania the Ris
, nans in Toelgyes section gained local
, advantages, while, on the south front
engagements begun yesterday near
Lodza Pass are still going on. We
have gained further successes near
Predcal Pass, storming Clabucek. Ths
entire strong position here is in ,oi:r
w lianH thnnch It was defended vio
i lently'. We captured 14 officers.
er, and 647 men, and altogether have
now taken In this vicinity 1747 Ru
manians, 8 cannon and 20 machine
uns. uur lniantry regimeni, o.
lieserves special praise. Elsewhere cn
this front we have won important suc-i
' esses. . k .
In ether arenas no important events.
Submarine Success
BERLIN, Germany, Nov. Z The
German admiralty reports that a sub
marine on October 23, vest of Ireland,
destroyed a small English cruiser of
the Elber type, with two funnels.
GERMAN ARMY HEADQUART
ERS, Nov. 6. On the Somme today
Ihore was a continu)us battle . f an
yesterdiy. The French and English
with their strongest forces and using
IS
HAFTER TROOPS
10 ASSEMBLE IN
HONOR OF EVANS
Will Present Arms to Departing
Commander as He Leaves
Hotel For Boat !
1 FORMER HEAD DEPARTMENT.
WILL LEAVE IN SHERMAN
Naval Commander Will Join
With Military and Band
Will Play on Pier'
GEN. RCBEERT K. EVANS
Who retires from command ;of Ha
wciian department today. .
Ten companies cf the 2nd Infantry,
Fort Shafter, with officers, the 2nd In
fantry band, and ail senior ofilcers
from Schofield Barracks and Coast
Defense posts will escort Brig.-Gcn.
Robert K. Evans, retiring commander
of the Hawaiian department, when he
icayes headquarters this afternoon for
the transport Sherman cn his ' depar
ture to the mainland. : !
The infantry companies will xissem
ble in Bishop streeet facing the head
quarters cilices at the Alexander
Vcung hotel, and as the general leaves
the buildiug will present arms.! They
will then march down Bishop; street
to Merchant and out to Fort, turning
tcward the waterfront at the Sher
man which is docked at Pier 6.
Accompanying Gen. Evrsns will be
Mrs. Eans and 'his 'two aides, . Lieut.
Ralph C. Holiiuay and Lieut Charles
B. Lyman. . '. .';;- ....;'..'.'
Brig.-Gen. Strong who will assume
ccrr.n-.snd cf the department ' today
with the departure cf Gen. Evans, will
ride in another car, accompanied by
his two aides, Ueut. Ij3us Eeard. 1st
Field Artillery, and Lieut. Wallace
Philoon, 25th Infantry. j ;
Cmdr. Georges R. Clark, head of the
naal station at Pearl Harbor, will
also be in the procession to pay henor
to the departing commander. He will
tc accompanied by his two aides. i
The 2nd Infantry troops and band!
wih aiscmble at Pier 6. standing for
review as Gen. Evans passes them for !
the last time .: '
their whole firing strength made a
1 owerfii advanre against the front of
Gen. ven Beuio v's army. The troops
of different parts of Gerraany, under
Gens.: Baron Marschali, ven Deimling
and. von Gamier withstood the as-
saults unshaken and inflicted a severe !
defeat cn the enemy. Parts of the
Strassbourg corps. Saxony, Baden, and
frcm Berlin and Hansaito and Meinin
gen infantry regiments gained special
distinction, The Allies cn the whole
front from Lesars to Bouchavcsnes.
about 20 kiloTiieters. suffered heavy.;
losses and accomplished nothing ere-1
cept a small local gain north of a part ,
of St. Pierre Vaast wood.' Wherever)
the enemy in other places advanced
into our line they v. ere immediately ,
ejected and left 10 officers and 310
men and much booty in our hands.
Northeast of Lesars more than 70
I'ritners and 11 raachinv guns'-were
(Continued 011 pace twoj
. r
v
;; i :i; ; i ,; 1 1 Viff ,; ' ..
' ' " if
. . ,. .
. . .... .Vv v - - ;
"'1
KANSAS
MILITIA HEADS
SEND RULES ON
DRILL STRENGTH
Numbers Based on 60 Per Cent
of Average Enrolment of
Men and Officers
WAR SECRETARY WILL
PRESCRIBE INSTRUCTION
Commanding Officers to Keep
Monthly Record of Armory
Attendance
f Information relative to the neces-
I sary strength of militia companies, j
j detachments, etc.; which is requisite
, at drills in order that militiamen will
be in line for pay from the .govern-
ment was received today by Hawaii
; National Guard officers who have
' been anxiously awaiting it3 coming
for a mcnth.
Generally sbeiking, it requires that
. for a six-month period there shall be
j an, averagettendance of 60 per cent
j fcr enlisted men and 50 per cent for
officers, of. the average : enrollment
I fcr the six-month period.- , ' '
i i". The orders which were received
from the acting chief of the militia
! iinroQii nt Wn-sninoton. D f!.' are in I
part as follows:
Attendance at Drills -
. Fcr officers and men of a company,
a troop, battery , or detachment, the
attendance at armory, drills tor ; each
' semi-annual period must exceed 50
per cent of th9 authorized minimum
homed minimum;
strength of the
"?iiniraLJs:onedfteace
company, 'etc., for officers, and be not
less than 60 per cent of the author- - fourth and lifth dixiriets a iter they
ized minimum enlisted peace strength had been visltt-'t by ..representative- of
, of the company, etc., for enlisted men,' the Star-BuiJn thi morning. There
; provided, that credit for attendance was little oj tu iilate making seen, but
I at drills shall not be given unless the in some districts there aro reiwrts of
I period cf actual military instruction votes, irrespective . of party afrilia-
participated in by each officer and tiens, being thrown for some vwrtitu
j enlisted man at each assembly, exclu- j lar candidate or candidatn.4. Such re
1 sive of rests and interruptions, is at ports were difficult if cot impossi'ole
! least one and on3-balf hours in dura- of enfirmation.
tion, and provided that the Character
of the instruction ia such as may be
prescribed by the secretary of war.
Where the enrolled elisted strength
of a company, etc., exceeds the mini
mum strength prescribed by the war
department, the percentages get forth
above uhall be required on the aver
age enrolled strength of the company,
etc., for the semi-annual period. Cred
it for drill attendance of company of
ficers and en I ted men will not be
allowed cn account of time occupied .';
with roriesnontnce schools or lor at- i
! tendance at schools for officers and
non-commissiond officers.
Mutt Keep Records 4
The commauuing officer of each
company, etc., shall keep a monthly
record of armory attendance, in tripli
cate, of each officer and enlisted man
of hti organization at every drill or
assembly for instruction, showing the
name of the parson, the date of the
drill, the periou during which he was
actually present and under instruc
tion" in uniform, and the character of
the drill and instruction for the entire
period. This roster of attendance cer
tified to by the senior officer on duty
with- the "organization will be again
certifi-d by the battalion commander
or officer of corresponding command,
providing he is on duty at the station
of the company, and delivered or
mailed to the regimental commander
.immediately after the last drill or in
struction of each month. 'Regimental
or separate battalion, etc., command
ers will forward the original reports
of attendance dnectly to the chief of
the militia bur?au, and the duplicate
copies to the adjutant general of the
state. The triplicate copies will be
retained in the organization records.
"fr"
GERMAN SUBMARINE IN
FOR RUNS ASHORE AND
IS BLOWN UP BY CREW
(German Official)
IiERLIN. Germany, Nov. 7. On the
evening of November 4, according to
report of the German admiralty, the
submarine U-20 in consequence of fog
tt agrouna at-" "
0J1?
ran aground at Bobjerg, on the west
ner a-r l auc,Vtt':c"
nnrp and the tornedo-boats tried to
drag her off but were unsuccessful.
Therefore the submarine on Novem
ber 5 at noon was blown up, after the
crew had been rescued by a torpedo
boat.
POLITICAL NOTES
- ' :
. Rumor had it yesterday that two
tips came from the mainland not to
bet on Hughes. One report w-as that
Cushman Carter had sent word from
California to friends here to bet $200
cn AVilson. The other rumor was that
.J. Walter Ikvle had tolesrajdied 'from
Detroit to his brother, Chester, not to
l et on Hughes.
PRESIDENTIAL.
Mauig
(Special ky Mutual Wireless)
WAILUKU, Maul. Nov. ,7. There was excitement in a polling
booth at Wailuku this morning when a yourg Hawaiian, K. Ohialau,
was stopped from leaving the booth with a senatorial sample ballot
and official ballots folded together in his pocket, after he had depos
ited hl3 representative ticket.
He was stopped by Inspector Manuel Ross. The voter is a bit
"loony." . , . . .
Dr. J. H. Raymond, Democratic candidate for senate, whoss charges
of illegal use of a "sample ballot" caused Secretary Thayer to wire
less warning from Honolulu to the election officials, has made com
plaint to th-v county attorney, who has refused to act. The county
attorney says the attempt made by Ohialau was not illegal.
Raymond claims that four federal detectives are here watching
for fraudulent voting. He made a summary statement at Wailuku
last night to a crowd of 500, where fair warning was read.
Harry A. Baldwin, candidate for senator on the Republican ticket,
is scornful of the story that fraudulent voting has been attempted.
He declares it absolutely false and a dssperats resort of Raymond,
the latter seeing himself beaten.
Tne tension at the Wailuku polls is marked. 1
LIGHT VOTE QUIETLY CAST MARKS
ELECTION IN OJWS TWO DISTRICTS
Slates and Combinations Are Reported But No Open Evidence
of Deals iso Be Found at Most Polling Places Bond
Issue is Not Openly Fought By Democrats Though Largest
Part- of; Vote on Questions Will Come From Republicans
Qukt election,, and a rather llAht,
vote' were the-rejwts ertettlfy reeeiv
ed from the various, precincts of the
uignt vote cast
l-'espite' reports that ter.s were to
be framed none werp. in evidence in
the fourth district today so far as
cculd be ascertahiea by clothe observa
tion. Harmony anci quiet marked the
voting in the fourtn througnout the
i.iy. Up tof noon the voting w as light.
S:S0 :to-'S:20 o'clock be'ns the rush
hour. No disturbances, of any nature
were reported. 'At .-many;, of the pre
cincts, especially ;he fcixih. large
. crowds gathered, bu the vnwds were
rueny.
So tar as could be learned the Dem
ocrats made no open Tight at tne poll
ing places -against the b -nd issue. Re
ports from the various precincts of
the fourth are that a steady vote is
being cast for the bond is.-.ue althougfa'
son-e of the vcters, largely Democrats,
openly declared they would have m tlv
ing to do with this phnse of the voting.
Governor Pinkham Votes
Governor Pin kh.im voted at the fifth
of the fourth. He was in the booth
only a short time. "Jack" Lucas cast
the first vote in this precinct The
lifth was his headquarters a large part
of the day. Those men in charge of
the booth in the fifth sn- h -t riv
this morning several women called
at the . voting place, asserting that
they intended to vote. They appeared
hagrined w hen told that they could
not vote. .. . ' '.
I'p to noon today more than IGvO
votes had been cast. -
FOURTH DISTRICT
First Precinct 10:33 a. ni , 180
votes cast. Voting in the first was
fairly heavy "throughout the morning.
It was reported that the vote on the
bend issue was steady, no one declin
ing to vote on the proposals.
Seccnd Precinct 10:20 a. m . 123
votes cast. Several voters asserted
openly that they would note vote for
the bond Issue. The voting waa light
throughout the morning, the hea.-iest
Watch Star-Bulletin's Election Night
Returns on King Street, West of Fort
4
". : ,';' "v ' '-
. Election night returns, covering the presidential and state con-
tests, as well as the territorial political fight, will be shown tonight
by the Star-Bulletin from its special election headquarters on King
street, west of Fort. The returns, will be flashed on a big illumi-
nated screen on the front of Dimond & Co.'s building. Everybody is
invited to join the crowd everybody welcome.
The Star-Bulletin's election headquarters telephone number is "
Election officials and watchers at the polls are requested to tele-
phone returns to this number. By early telephoning quick and accu-
rate news can be given the crowds watching the returns. .'"'.''
The Associated Press will 'flash" mainland election news to
Honolulu throughout the evening, a nd the island voting w ill be sent ;
by Mutual Vireless.
. Returns will be put on the screen a soon as dusk comes and
continued until the ti?ures are all in.
t ft -f
COUNTS
Sample Ballot
uoterls
Wailuku
voting being between 8; 30 and 9:3i
olcc k. felegate-Trahio ahd Hornier
.Mayor J. J. Fern voted hero. The dele
gate said he is satisfied he will be
elected.- 'V--,V''V.y ;'.."'';'
Third Precinct 10:50 a. ni., 152
votes cast. Voting here was fairly
t heavy, with a steady vcte on the bond
issue. A oig rush of late voters was
expected after the noon hour."
Fourth Precinct 10. 5) a. m.,
votes cast. A fairly heavy vote was
polled here during the morning.
These in charge of the polling place
reported none of tnose registered, had
expressed refusal to vote on the bona
issue.,
Fifth Precinct II a. m., 127 votes
cast. "Jack" Lucas was the first one
to vote. It was rer-orted here that a
number of those who voted early in
the morning asserted they would have
nothing to do with the bond issue.
Voting was fairly light during the
morning. ..
Sixth Precinctll:20 a. m.
200
votes cast. This was one of the busi
est precincts in the fourth, and the
voting was heavy throughout the
morning. Probably three-fourths of
the Democratic voters were taken to
the polls in Bourbon autos. A large
but orderly crowd gathered at the
polls all day.
: Seventh Precinct 11:25 a, m, 101
votes cast. Voting was light during
the morning. Just before noon it was
reported that the vote on the bond
issue had been heavy, with no one de
clining to vote on the proposals. ."
Eighth Precnct 11:20 a. m., 133
votes cast. The Voting on the bond
issue was reported to be heavy. Reg
ular voting was fairly heavy up to
noon. '
Ninth Precinct 11:20 a. m., 182
votes cast. No complaints against the
bond issue were heard "at this pre
cinct, according to those in charge of
the polling place. " Voting was fairly
heavy throughout the morning.
Tenth Precinct 10:05 a. m.. 3")
votes cast. Ballets were only drib
bling in at this precinct during the
morning. The total registration is enly
189, however. Mayor Lane and a party
of city officials visited the polling
place during the morning.
Twelfth Precinct 11:10 a. m., 131
votes rast. It wa3 reported in this
(Continued oh page two)
-f -f --f -f f
HUGIES AHEAD
I'llLSOilltJ
TURNING
OUT
NEW YORK, MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES. WESTERN AND
SOUTHERN PORTIONS OF NATION ALL REPORT UNUS
UALLY LARGE VOTING FAIR WEATHER GENERALLY
PREVAILS -
(AuocUUl Ttt Strtir br Federal WtreU)
SAX FILVNCIStH). Nov. 7. First irturns . n ilu pivshleiu
ti:tl tlo-tion toilav, ;s Uaslutl from .various vitics of thr rouutrv, shv
: li voft' ra.st. with tlic inc-omph'Hv cotnit iinlirat inj" nothing cither
w a v. .' : ' ';v .::'.'
NKW YOKK. X. Y.. Nov. 7. An unusually larp vote was rast
today in this state ami in tlu' .Middhv Atlantir. western ami southern
states. ' : '.": ' : V v-"'-v
Charles K. Hughes at a few minutes after 7 this morning entered
his t.Mllin iMioth in an hijihth avenue laumlry and was given a ballot.
ir.. ...,t.l ..... i ':.. 1 1. t: . i .n .j-.' ' nu t
nr. loiru inuui-r in uu nsi oi iiuise itaiioimg. . nen nis alien
tion was t-alled to the fact that le had east liallot KV he said. "And
I was liorn on Fridav. too." v
Topeka Gives Haghes Early Lead
TOPEKA, Kansas, Nov. 7, Incomplete returuv from lir out of
prctinets in the .city of TojM'ka gives Hughes a lead, with to
J74 for Yi!sn. This city is normally ltepuhlirait.
Wichita Starts off For Wilson
: ' AV I iml TiV K it ns.tr. So 7.-The K a nsa s srn't ct'A 'vUvtn h t ing nV
der the douhle election lioard plan is in operation h?n with i-eturns
ineomplete for the city.; In Hie vote so far tahulated. Ifl n!f of 20
pieciuets in Wichita irive Wilson SSI I ami IhiHies 41fl '
Pi:iNi:i:T()N. N. J., Nov. 7. I'resident Wootlrow Wilson voted
here early this morning. lie was attended by a large group of friends
and scores of photographers and movie camera men crowded around
him to take his picture in various attitudes. Ik was cheered by the
students vociferously. ' .
Mm. Wilson accompanied the president. Aflcr voting he return
ed to Sliadow Law n in his automobile. ;
WpflthpT ifi fifinprnllv Fnir Tnrlnv
NIvW Y()I:K, N. Y . Nov, 7: The weather is generally fair today
throughout the country, ex eed in Ihe iy'v .Mississipi valley, where
it is cloudy and threatening, with light showers, and in Western Colo
rado and Wyoming. Here there is some snow and an early vote has
een the result. .. ' '- .
Massachusetts Begins For Hughes
NF.W ASHFOIil). Mass., N'ov. 7. The first returns 'from vot-
jers shrw that Hughes got Hi votes and Wilson 7.
I TJie voting in New Knglaiid todav is beavv.
G. 0. P. CANDIDATE
FOR CONGRESS DIES
(Associated. Pie by Fflcral 'WirfltM)
GRAND ISLAND, Neb., Nov. 7.
S. R. Bartcn,: Republican candidate for
Congress, died here today of acute
pneumonia, contracted from making
an outdoor speech at night
TWO COASTARTILLERY
OFFICERS TO GO HOME
Among war department orders for i the N'ew York Evening Post consider
transfers of coast artillery officers re- Ohio Democratic and Indiana, Illinois,
ceived today through mail from th New York and Gonne:Ucut doubtful
mainland are two-af fee tins officers of ! The dd9 are 10 to 8 on uSnes and
this island Lieut.-Coi. AVilmot E. ! there is Plent' of Wilsn money. Best
Ellis, Fort Ruger. and Maj. Edward j information is Wilson will xvin.
Carpenter, headquarters. Both offi
cers are ..relieved from foreign duty, j
the orders to be effective next year.
Col. Ellis is relieved on date of Feb
ruary 13, and .Maj. Carpenter on June
NO STOCK MARKET
Today being a national election ana
a legal holiday in all parts or the
United States there have been held
no business sessions of any stock or
ether exchanges in any cities of tne
country and the New York stock list
is therefore omitted.
According to a report mad
to the -
State Probation Conm'syioi
Now
York State has 12.251 n-siVn's who
are on probation -from .: m court r j
pfna institution. j
IN TOPEKA AND
1 flRHm- SflllTII IS
HEAVY POLLING
NEIV YORKER SAYS
"LOOKS WILSOfi"
A Honolulu attorney this morning
received a night letter from a New
York' businessman, 1 who is also- a
Democratic politician, a Marconfgram
declaring that the best information in
his fossession is that the election will
go for Wilson. His message says :
"New York Herald poll shows 3'i7
delegates Wilson, 224 Hughes, on re-
i turns equaling 1 per cent of
lar vote. The New York, T
the popu-
Times and
IR. I'll) ELECTED
FOREIGN MINISTER
f Assiriatl Ir' by Federal Wirt!e)-
PEKING, China, Nov. 7. Wu Ting
' Fang, the noted Chinese statesman.
i was today elected minister of foreign
! aHairs of the republic by a virtually
unanimous vote of parliament
. .
PAYDAY AT SCHOFIELD
. Thursday, Nov. 3, has been named
as payday at Schofield Barracks. Capt,
Thomas R. Harder, with an assistant.
will officiate as paymaster.
