T.-D. Election News
Unprecedented Service by the
Associated Press.
prfpnond 0Timcs-0i5iJafii|
Wilson or Hughes?
See T.-D. Returns at Capitol
Square?Modes. Etc.
66th YEAR
VOl.l'.MK .10
\t Miir.it :m?
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES.
?CLEAR
PRICE. TWO CENTS
EXPECT STATE TO
CAST HEAVY VOTE
Indications Point to Total of 135,
OOO, With 40,000 Wilson
Plurality.
LOOK FOR VICTORY IN NINTH
Seventh and Fifth Districts Safe
ly Democratic, Despite Re
publican Inroads.
Krom sunrise to sunset lo-day, be
twecn 125,000 and 1 !i0.0f?0 Virginia
voters will go to tin poll to regisO r
their cholcn for President of the I'nited
States, for on'* Fulled States Senator
and for ton members of the House of
Representatives. In a frw < itlus th?
electorate will vote al-o for certain
municipal olllcers -notably In 11 i??!? -
inon?J, wh'T'.* Graham it Hol^on will
Ik* chosen for a three-year t< nn < n
tii* Adininistrati v? Uonrd
In spit" of a campaign that Iih*
1>? *-ri in a marked degree s< r> ne, in
contrast t*? the Iiv? ly days of r.il
when ili* Hi jiiiiiliciinti split ami 111??
Progressives ??ut gunning for inde
pendent support. the State- i> expected
t'? < n*i a lartie vmi. I'nder the
htimului- <<f tli"? Itepublb an break in
1012,v that party ra*t 4...000 votes in
Vlrsinln for lli>on v? lt and Taft. It is
believed that nearly that number w ill
ho polled to-dav hy Hughe.-! Wi!s"ii
in the same cti'in received Int.000
votes. anil will probably run ahead >?(
this ligure in to-day's balloting.
Whatever t h ? * American voter de
cides?whether li<? will bring Wnuilmw
Wilson. of Virginia, another four-year
term, or' hand the r? of govern
ment. over to ?'barbs K. Hughes. of
New York?Virginia's strength will go
undivided to 111'- l'r?sid.n? Allowing
Hughes the full strength developed in
Virginia hy Taft and IIoijm viU a' the
last election. President 'Wilson Will
carry th?- Old Dominion hy a plurality
of at least 40.000. and will all
of itn tWel\ ? Votes ill til' ep. toral
college.
fkw niSTitn Ts ri:i/r
I'l I.I. rillll i: III-- I AMI'MI.V
Kx<-'-pt for the Ninth I ? i^ r i-i?-t and
possibly the Seventh and Fifth, Vir
ginia pan i il through \h< presidential
campaign practically untouched hy the
pre-elect Ion disturbances that f ?-11 to
the htuir" of thi- great doubtful Mat*-*
to the North and West. I*i ? \. ry dis
i rlcl there wii.? spor.ulh ?ampaiun
njioaking. For the most part It was
directed to nt< ? t de?ulti?r> campaign
ing prosecuted by i'.cpuhl i.-a n candi
date!' fur i.'ungivss, none of whom. the
Ninth again except,-ti, had a reasonable
chance for election
Many sections of the State never
heard the voice of the <atnpaigu oiato>
This was true of the . lt> of Richmond,
where. for the !ir.-t time in many years,
the presidential campaign passed with
out a single public Democratic or It. -
publican address. The few political
)n.???tings that w.re stage,i in tlie State
capital wei e under the auspice.- ?,t" the
Socialists.
In spite <>f th> ? \ ? 11 t?*iior of ti;e c.iin
palgu in Virginia. t!i?- State approaches
election day with a hitch degree <<f in
terest. As the nurtheviP'ist of the
"Solid-South" u'roup. \ irginia is never
isolated from the political passions that
sway h< r neighbors the North and
"West, and much "f the keen feeling
that rule, in the doubtful States ha-,
communicated itself t<? tin- ?_>UI I'o
minlon. Mure ti an any <>tiier Southern
Stale. If is a ? ? siI? i? to the Kepuldn an
inllu?-iici> of (he ca pi t a 11.-1 ic center:- of
% 'lle North, in pvi-rj large Virginia ?"j|>
there is ensconced a small body of
.,ci|\e (I,-<>uldican-. who have "n to
:t that their campaign literature has
Keen syiveii the i<|i t po-f-ihle cireti
l:i t b'li.
M \ N \ !?' \? TOIl* ? O N vl'llti :
TO It |{ I N (. Ol T lilt. \ OIK
1' is this so: t oi "derived" interest
in what is believed will i>c the closest
presidential contest in a ucneration
? OUpled With tlie ci I ? urn-ta nee that
Woo'lrow Wilson is a native son. and
the First i.ady Of the I.and a native
daughter, that will <on.?"plre to liring
out si heavy \ot. all over Virginia.
In a national drama su'li as will lie
enacted to-day, few Virginians who
arc qualified to participate will care
to play the rob' of silent actors.
Only one Virginia congressional dis
trict?the Ninth?-is in doubt. I demo
cratic advices from the Southwest last
?.night told of routing idosing meetings
In many sections of the distrlcl with
all of the party leaders lirm in tlie
belief tluit Iteproscntative Sieinp will
l?e defeated. The district has returned
r?epuhlican majorities for fourt'een
years, but It is believed that Wilson .
extraordinary popularity and Candidato
Trinkle's strong following among all
classes of people, will bring it back
into the Democratic column.
While "Itepubliciins claim that their
Seventh IMslrct candidate. former
State. Senator John Paul, will poll a
strong vote, some even claiming that
he will win, Democratic leaders in the
district are certain that former Judge
Thomas XV. Harrison will he chosen by
f a safe majority. 'I is generally ac
knowledged that the Uepuhlican.s will
make Inroads Into the Seventh Dis
trict's normal Democratic plurality, but
beyond this no fears sire entertained.
SAI NDKIIS HAS \OTIIIMi
TO FK.AH IX FIFTH
III the Fifth District, former State
Senator Iloverly A. Davis is expected
to make a fair showing against Kcprc
sentative K. XV. Saunders, the Demo
cratic. incumbent, out the district is
safely Democratic. Republicans will
give Candidate XV. tV. liutzner ti small
vote in one or two counties in the First
District. In no other district does there
appear any ^reason to expect anything
more than the normal g-attered Repub
lican vote.
"1 am satisfied with the situation,
both State ami national." said Secre
tary J. N. Uronanmn, of the Slate Demo
~ (Continued on Fourth Pago.)
Election Weather
Generally Fair
I Ity Amocliilod l'rr-Ns. J
W ASIIIM;to\, .\o?ember u_\
npcclnl rlri'llmi day forrciiHt lisiieil
by llic Weather iturciui to-nl^ht
MIJ'N t
"The Indication)) nrr that on
Tnrndny llic weather will lip Krnrr.
Mlly fair In nil p,irt? of thr coun
try, except ili?| ruliiK or Nno?? nrr
lirobnlilr in tlic .\ortli Itoeky .llniin.
tnln rcKlun, extreme .Northern .11 In
nesotn mill npiirr Michigan."
flOBIUNUNS COMPEL
RETREAT OF TEUTONS
I mil on I heir Pursuing Fnemie.s unci
Foreo Them Hac k in Do
hrudja Hegioii.
< 'IIKCKKI) IX JILL VALLEY
Heavy He-Hnfcmeinents Brought L'p
hy (jerinaiis and Auslrians?On
French Hat He Fields Fighting Is
Hitter, \\ ith Few Changes.
I My l>re*j.. I
LONDON, {November ?After a week
or more of doubt concerning operations
in the Dobrudja region of Roumania,
where the Teutonic allies had been
marching almost unimpeded northward
from the Black Sea to the Danube,
come* the report thai the Roumanians
have taken the offensive, probably aid
ed by Russians, and compelled the
enemy to retreat at several points.
?'is the I"ransyIranian front, however.
She Roumanians !n the .jjul Valley, who
for some time had been holding the
upper hand over the Austro-Clerman
.oices, forcing them to give ground,
have now been stopped. the Teutons
ha\iug brought up re-enforcementi*.
In Die I'redeal J'ass retrlon. after heavy
I't i ng. the Roumanians also have met
with a reverse, being compelled to re.
tieat after long and stubborn battles.!
TK.VACltHSIiV DIMM Tl: j
AUVANCK OF A I.I.IKS
All along the battle line in France
j between t.-je Sonune and Ancre Rivers
the <iirmuiia are tenaciously disputing!
attempts bj the British and French to
galti further ground. Berlin says that |
in Sunday'*; fighting over a front of j
twelve miles the French and British I
.suffered heavy casualties and won notli- |
ing except a local gain in the St. Pierre
\ aast wood. London admits that the
British were compelled to give back :
to the "Jermans ground the British pre
viously had won at the Butte de War
leiicourt. In the St. Pierre-Vaast wood,!
however, the French on Monday made
a . irther advance in the northern part
of the wood and captured additional
prisoners??! *?"' of whom w rre taken in
; the tiirMing of Sunday and Monday.
Rome reports that the Aus.trlana are J
jbririuing up heavy re-enforcements on
| the hat tie front north of Trieste. Here
the Austrian* apparently have taken
? the ofTensive, but nowhere have they j
jbeen able t.? regain any of their lost,
positions. aec*rdintr to Rome.
Bombardments and small Infantry
attacks continue to feature the fighting
i:. the Macedonian theater.
London reports that a British t-uh
m.trine in the North Sea off the Banish
coast has scored ^ hit on a (ierman
battleship <>i" the 1 dreadnought class.
; The amount ot damage done to the bat
tleship Is not known by the British
' Admiralty.
(ST. l'II-:itltl-;-Y.\.\ST WOOD
l? rONUl KltKI) 11V 1 'ItK\CM
WITH Til 1: FRENCH ARMY" ON THE
. s' >.MM K l PiONT, November fvia
; < han' i iiy, from a staff correspondent
of the Associated Pres.-.).?The battle
! to-day in the district between Saiilisel
?ind St. 1'ierre-\aast wood was fought
without the assistance ?->f aeroplanes.
The v md. blowing eighty miles an
' hour, prevented the planes from as
j < ? riding, and consequently the artillery
? lire from I mi German batteries as well
( as from tlu French and British was
uncontrolled aerially. Every inch of
I 'be battle ground was a danger spot,
and the correspondent of the Asso
ciated Press and other correspondents
were compelled to take shelter in a
dugout.
Wh-n the French infantry attacked
a powerfully defended series of
trenches with trench mortars and
grenades, they found a strong garri
, s->n. which in one part surrendered in
a body with their officers, more than
j ?if'O running at a racing pace Into the
t French lines, and for two miles nnd
| a half lo the rear, accompanied by
; only half a dozen French guards. It
J way a strange sight when they ran
the gantlet of the Herman barrage lire,
j St. Pierre-Vaast Wood is more than
two kilometers square, and proved a
I most diin?:ult problem for the French.
But Frencfi infantry finally reached
. the place and held it with slight
losses. The battle continued into the
; night.
WANTS TO GO IN NAVY
I Son of J he latte Alfred <i. Vnnderhllt
Seek .\tl,til"?toii to
A nnnpoli*.
I NKWPORT, IJ. I.. November ii.?Wil
\ Ham llenry Vanderbilt. son of Mrs.
j I'.lsie French Vanderbilt and the late
! Alfred O. Vanderbilt, will try for a
j commission in the United States Navy
by seeking admission into the Naval
Academy at Annapolis.
He has had much experience with
motor and sailing boats in Newport
waters.
BARBERS GO ON STRIKE
; .11 ore Than Walk Out. nnd l'nter
aoii, N. I|,im "ShnveleNft"
lluy.
PATKKSoX, N. ,1., November C.?To
day was a "sbaveless" day in Paterson,
because more than 200 journeymen
barbers went on a strike. They walked
out when an ittcrcuso in wages was
refused.
REVIVES PLAN FOR !
CITY HALL ANNEX
? I
President Peters Offers Resolu
tion for $850,000 Library
and Auditorium.
KRENGEL MAY GET FULL PAY
Administrative Board Favors
Changing Name of Byrd Park
to Cutshaw Park.
Renewed ??/Tort looking toward tho
curly erection of On- proposed $>00,0u0
municipal oourthouHe building, includ
ing a mammoth auditorium and ample!
Hpa.ro for a public librar*', on tho site f
at Hroad, Tenth, Eleventh and Capitol
Streets, owned by tho city, was made I
last night at tho meeting of tho Com- j
mon Council. A resolution was intro- '
duecd by President R. Roe Peters re
questing t !i *- Com mil too on Finance to |
include in the !!?'" budget an appro
priation of 00.000 to have plans made
and care for tho construction of the
building, which has been contemplated
by the Council .since 1915, when many
designs were submitted in competition,
and that of Oarncal & Johnston, Rich
mond architects, selected, winning llrst
prize.
Tho project was first introduced
when it became apparent that the quar
ters in tlie City Hall were becoming
congested, and that ,.ddltional space
must ho provided. Though the winning
design was picked 'and Carneal A:
Johnston paid their foe. tho city at the
time was not in financial condition' to
carry out the plant*, and the matter
has been held in abeyance until now.
XVOIL.1J If A VK A l.'IU roitIt'.M
A X I) IM'lll.IC I.I lilt A H V
"( see no leason.' laid Mr I'eters,
"why any change should be made in
the design already picked, although 1
would suggest that we add about
twenty feet b> taking in tho sidewalk
on the Tenth Street side. This would
assure us of providing an auditorium
1 which would seat tot less than 5,000.
In addition," lie continued, "it will give
us spacious quarters for a public
library, tho lack of which has always
brought down upon Richmond much
unfavorable comment. The r.lme is now
at hand when we must have ihe library.
With the huge mass, or base of the new
| building given over to the auditorium
and library, we will have the linmens..
1 tower which will rise from it, for the
! exclusive use of the rout l? which are
j now housed in Ihe City Hall. Then We
can give over the latter building on
1 tirely to quartering city odices, some
i of which iiave been forced out and are
m'w occupying rented rooms. This
condition causes in unoue burden upon
, ihe city's treasury. The time lias come
when the city forced to go ahead
. with the new build inc. and we are be.
I hind the movement t ? see that it is
I brought to a successful conclusion."
II JILALK ritOPUSKS TO
ItKMODKI. PHKSKXT A I DITOIt I (' >1
i Alfred C. Hossom, of X? ,v York, con
. suiting architect, called in by the city
! at the time of the competition when
j many well-known architects submitted
i plans, pronounced the design of Car
| neal & Johnston to bc ideal in every
' way to meet tho needs of the municipal
government, and it was upon his ail
j vice that it was selected. So far the
city lias spent in tin- neighborhood ?>(
51 t.'iOO for tin* plans, of which SI.000
was for th* services Mr. Hossom.
If the design picked two years ago is
I given up the expenditure of this money
, will he a dead loss to I ho city.
Councilman .l;.cob l.'mlauf Introduced
l a resolution to appropriate $.~>0.<)00 for
improvements to the Clny Auditorium.
It is likely that the Finance Commit tee
: will hold this matter in abeyance pend
ing tho settlement of the municipal
. building question.
1 WANTS KKI-:\?.K1. NA>ir.
iti:vroitKi> 'id I'Witoi.i,
t Mr. t'mlauf's resolution to restore
Fred I.. Krengcl, recently retired 'rom
the Police Department for physical dis
abllity, as a nieiiib' - of the force with
1 the pay of a detective-sergeant, was
I referred to the Ordinance Committee.
Councilman Atkinson introduced a
resolution to provide for $.1,000 for
music In the parks next summer.
Councilman lladdon offered a l'eso
j lutioti looking toward enlarging the
?police foroe. by adding two police
' women. This was sent to the Finance
Committee.
j A request from the School Hoard for
an appropriation of $2,.">00 to buy over
j coats for the John Marshall High
School Cadets also went to the Finance
, Committee.
Councilman Ktlglisb introduced a
resolution asking the Street Committee
, to confer with officials of the Virginia
! Railway and Power Company with a
j view of forming a general scheme of
rerouting of various cvr lines through
out the city. "In some places exten
sions are needed." said Mr. English.
, "while in others tne traffic would Jus
tify a curtailment or abandonm -nt of
i service." In connection with this Mr.
i Knglisli offered a measure, also
to the Street Committee, which would
i request the Power Company to issue
transfers to passengers hoarding west
i bound cars on Main St roe' > west of
! Harrison Street, to cars moving north
j on Robinson Street. This would en
(Continued <<n Second Page.)
Tumulty Says President Will
Have 387 Votes in Elec
toral College.
HUGHES HAS NOTHING TO SAY
No Further Comment Until Re
sult of Election Is Made
Known.
f llv A ... 1 IT- 1
I.< >.\r; l!K.\N't'H, X. .1 November ?>.?
After going over wit i President Wil
son optimistic messages from all parts
of the country, Seerotary Tumulty to
night claimed the I'resident would win
to-morrow's ??lection ami would have
3S7 votes in the ? leetoial college. Me
<li<l not give a list of the .States oti
whii'h he based It is prediction.
Th1? President spent 11??? d;iy quietly
at Shallow lawn, going out for a short
tlsne for a game of golf an?l receiving
a delegation for a few minutes in the
afternoon. To those who .--aw him h?.
expressed complete satisfaction over
the prospects for to-morrow's voting.
The President will be tii? noon after
daybreak to-morrow morning to go to
Princeton to vote, lie will make the
trip by automobile, accompanied by
Mrs. Wilsmi, and expects to lie back at
Shadow lawn in time for luncheon.
In the afternoon lie 'vill play golf. In
Princeton he will cast his ballot and
may spend a few minutes visiting old
friends.
HKCKIVK IMPORTANT HKTI HNS
PltOM S'lil'HKTAHt TI JIl'l.TV
Tfit President will receive the im
portant returns by telephone from Sec
retary Tumulty, wl\o will remain in
the executive olllces in Asbury I'ark.
wheri elaborate arrangements have
been made for receiving election news
as speedily as possible, only Mrs. Wil
son and other members of his immedi
ate family will be with the President.
Messages from I'eirocratic leaders in
virtually every State were received by
the President to-day and to-night, pre
dicting victory for him to-morrow.
John J. Hchully. secretary of the
American Association of Masters.
Mates and Pilots, telegraphed that his
organization lu-s passed resolutions ex
pressing confidence in the President's
administration and indorsing his re
election.
A summary of the messages received
at the executive otllces given out here
to-night said:
"Many conservative judgments un
qualifiedly predict a landslide, and
greater optimism prevails at Shadow
Lawn than at any ? eriod of the cam
, paign."
ill <.iii:s <.oi> to tiik\ti:h
txn hi-:tihi-:s i:\hi.v
X1IW YORK, Xovetnber ?Confident
that he will be elected President to
morrow, Charles 1". Hughes went to a
theater to-night and retired early after
a quiet day, most if which was spent
resting. The Republican nominee will
be up to-morrow morning to east his
ballot at a polling place not far from
the hotel where he has established a
legal residence since he was nominated.
Mr. Hughes nad no comment to make
to-night on the prospects of victory
to-morrow, lie tttkes the position that
his campaign ended on Saturday night,
and will have nothing more to say
until the result is known.
Mr. Hughes will reeejve the returns
at his hotel to-morrow night by tele
phone from th.- headquarters of the
Republican National Committee. With
him will be members of his family.
!le ha? given instructions that he is to
lie supplied om.c with significant figures
and not with fragmentary returns.
The nominee visited Republican head
quarters this after, loon and shook
hands with all the workers there. He
was accompanied by Mrs. Hugh'::,
l.ator they went for an automobile ride.
i
CUBA SUES NORTH CAROLINA
I Seeks to Krenter I'li.viucfit fur ?*('nrpr(
liagger" llonils \ filurd
til S2.IN<l,fl(l<l.
1 lie Associated Press. |
WASH I.Xi;T"X. 'November rt.? In
: what was said to he the. tirst suit ever
begun in the Supreme Court by a for
eign nation against one of the United
States, attorneys for Cuba to-day
j asked the Supreme Court for leave to
tile an original petition against the
I State of North Carolina to secure pay
ments of boj.ds valued at $2,lStS,ftOu
! subscribed by Xor'li Carolina to aid
railroad construct! >n in that State
| nearly fifty years ago. Paysmnt, it
was alleged, has been refused.
! The bonds were issued by North
? Carolina in subQ-riptions i<> aid con
I struction ot the Western .North Caro
I litia; Williamston and Tarbnro: W:l
! rnington, Charlotte and Rutherfor<l,
' and Western Railroads.
|
ImniiciI Ii.v ?'! urpr (haggers."
i HAIiKKill, X. C.. Xoveniber ti.?The
jbonds involved in the proceedings bc
i gun In the Supr-ine Court to-d.\y by
attorneys representing the Cuban gov
I eminent in an ? ft'ort to recover
j $2,1 MJ,00ft from the State of Xorth
j Carolina were known a? speci.tl tax
.bonds, and were issued by the so-called
I "carpetbaggers" in this State ju.?t after
| the war.
.Times-Dispatch Election News Service
TO-MfillT'8 OIMM.AV AT CAI'irOI, SIH A1IK
The TlmeM-DlMpntch will krf|i open hotine In-nlKhl n t v.ipltol Si|iinrr, in front of Uncurl"* Hotel, ?lirrr it
will dlMplny election newN from Virginia and nil over the country, liy Mtereoptleon (In-* hllKht hulletliiM. Accomo
(intlonM for everybody.
I'nr thin aervloe The TiinrN-l>l*|>ntcli will linvp the IimimciI nlrew rind complete report* from the Unorlnteil
1'renM nnd the International >ew* Service, the KreiHext Metvu-RntherlnK orumil/.ririonn In the world, iin well an the
?\Ventern Union Telegraph Coinpitny.
Am n pnrt of the aervlee, The Tlitien-DlNptiteli will nliou Home of the Intent and heHt motion pieturen the ureal
ntudloN hnve produeed. There will he entertnlnment every minute before The TlnieM-lllnptifch Nereen.
And for the May-at-home* The Tlnicn-m?pntcli will he adequately equipped to handle requeMta for election
return* over the telephone. Cnll Itnndolplr 1,
_ ^
V,
Race for Presidency
Depends on Women's
; Vote in S ta te of Illin ois
Herald Believes This (Jn
? kn<>Wn Quantity in Pol
itics Will Prove
Deciding Factor.
j ISpecial to The Times-Dispatch. 1
NK\V Yt >P>K. November *3. Tlio New |
York 11 ?raid to-morrow morning will
i sa;'i. !
\\ ith the ludcl lobbies <>t a hundredi
{cities ccuwdtil with eager belters, all
confident but all worried, and the cam-'
i pnlgn managers of twenty States also'
j coiilld>Mit < for publication), but secretly!
disturbed, the curtain was rung down ,
? last night mi the most remarkable [
; presidential! campaign of a generation.
While both tRepublican and Dem
ocratic headquarters poured forth a ,
deluge of predictions of sweeping vic
tory, the holiest belief of the leading ?
men of both parties was that any one'
may win.
Thirteen million men and 3,000,000
i women will read the answqr for them
i to-day in the poling booths of forty- |
eight States, in nearly all years ot
! the past the lenders were able to gather j
a reasonably accurate idea as to what j
j was in the minds of the electorate.'
i This year they have merely groped j
about. They don't know. They will
toll you they don't know. The Repub- j
! licans expressed the sincerest confl- j
1 dence they will, win, the Democrats1
were equally enthusiastic. The He- j
: publicans declared that the last five i
days hail seen a most notable turning j
! of tlie tide in their favor. The Dent- j
ocrats admitted that while thetv might
have been a slight recession in the
Wilson swell it was so mountainous
: when It started that it will easily
i carry their national ticket to victory. I
IIKTTI.NO IS KKVKHISII
(I.N (i.OSIM; l)A Y j
(.Setting was feverish on the closing I
day. Tlie odds shifted in many parts!
of the country. From 10 to T on I
Hughes on Saturday the odds shortened
in the Wall Street section yesterday
to lo to M; and lo to There was a
tlood of Wilson money. The backers
j of Mr. Hughes appeared with huge
sums ready to cover the longer odds.
The Wilson betters held off for even
j money, and late in the day a large
? number of wagers were made at evens.
The same scales prevailed in the hotel
districts.
Never in the history oi" the local
brokers and politicians was there such
i .i deluge of money as during tlie last
; week of the campaign that ended (yes
terday. This was due to two things:
the wave of prosperity that has swept
'he country and the recognition l?y the
men of sporting inclinations that no
national battle of a generation offered
such opportunities to both sides.
In Cleveland, where the tide of Wll
j son sentiment has risen to the highest
point, tlie odds took a complete turn
about. Betting there last night was
? 10 to Ji on the President. In Boston,
j tlie metropolis of the Republican
strongholds of the country, the odds
were 10 to !? and earlier 10 lo 7 on the
Republican ticket |n Philadelphia it
' was 10 to ?? on ?\i r. Hughes. Cincinnati
j was a whirlwind of betting. The odds
I were 10 to <i on Hughes.
j ST. MIL'IS MII.I.IONAIHIO
Til HOWS 9-MI.OflO INTO HI.NC!
In St. 1 ,ouis an overnight millionaire
I threw Jlrt.rtOO cash Into the lietting
j ring to We wagered on the President at
i the best odds lie could get. Pailing to
j get odds, lie placed a quarter of the
j sum ill evens. ICverywlicro the back
ers of i he President appeared with
sums larger in most instances io match
| the almost fabulous amounts raised by
?the Republicans. The Wilson men held
out for odds, but in many parts of the.
, counto when they failed to get them
i placed the money even.
To the Herald from a thousand places
in tiie country came telegrams asking
j what its linal opinion of the situation
. was. TeleiVione messages were re
ceived from persons who in ordinary
years never have to ask any one what
i is about lo happen. In the average
? campaigns they are the men who know.
; but this year they, like the tens of
thousands of o: hers, are "up in the
air."
Despite tlieir respective claims of
overwhelming pluralities, the campaign
1 directors on both sides of the street
arrived at pretty much fie same con
elusion.
As Illinois goes so will the election
' iro.
st vri-: or ii.i.i,\ois
is in n.\ \us or womi-'.n
That is precisely what the Herald's
straw vote sought to indicate on Sun
day. The twenty-nine electoral votes
? from this State would he enough, it
i was estimated in many quarters yes
1 terday, to change t.ie result in a con
test so evenly balanced as the present
. appears to be. Illinois is in the hands
I of the women. They vote there for
? the tirsi time. They vote onlj for
President. More than a half million
of them are registered. Ii is esti
mated that in tiie neighborhood of
! (100.i.OO will vote. Trying to tell how
o 'out tuned on Second Page.)
Virginia Soldiers
Cast 1 heir Ballots
J Uy A.H.1IHidled I'revs. 1
III! OWN SVI I.I.I-:, TKS.VS, Novem
ber II.?Si-vrml Iniiitlred federalized
national is mini-.men on (lie liorder
In the llrownNvlllr district already
liuve rtml their IihIIoIn I or lo-mor
ro?*H election. it uiin leurneil Iiere
to-ilny, nml tlie votcn.' umler ?rnl,
nrr nun on tiietr ?ny to the liome
SI n lew of the KiinrilHiiieii \otlnu.
Anionic Ihexr lire the VlrKinin
troopM, who hnve lirrn balloting; for
Nevernl ilnjs liy mail. / Other fril
rrnllxcd gunnlMnieti who hnve mini
Inelllile the following;!
Troop A. Iviiiisiim Cnvnlry, ntn
tioneil nt Duntiti, 'I'c*.: Fourth South
Diikotn tnfnntry, ntut limed nt Sua
llrnlto: North Dakota Brunrdnmen nt
l.limo tJrnnde.
Troop* in till* illntrlct wlilcli hnve
not jet \nteii Include town, New
\urk nnil Minnmotii.
I
REPUBLICAN FLARE-UPS
TURN INTO FLARE-BACKS
They >lave Kai.seti Lot of Noise, Only
to Fiiul Country Laugh
ing at Tlieni.
XO,\V ALMOST liKREFT Or ISSUES
Election Day Sees Them With But
j One Issue Left, the Tariff?All
Their Assaults Upon Wilson's Pol
icies Have Fallen Flat.
i From :? Staff t'orrespomleiit.)
N'liW Yt'KK, November C.?Of all
li e piiuses ?>?' tlie campaign, j.r.t
I closed, none is more extraordinary
1 11.an >lie tact liiat only one important
isstw?toe tariff?lias survived. If the
! others have not been actually anm
| dotted. they have, at least lost their
pow^T of appeal. .
IUopuhlicati orators continued to
thunder against the Wilson foreign
i policies, against certain domestic
j legislation and against the Democratic
'doctrine of peace and prosperity until
the latter days, l<ut there was \tttl?
force in their argument and little or
no enthusiasm in the response of tliu
people.
.Mr. Hughes continued to assail every
thing President Wilson lias said, ot
done, or i.s. Colonel Hoosevelt did not
abate his savugc assaults until Sat
urday night, but each of these indulged
iu bitter generalities only. Aside from
; the tariff, their tlnal indictments con
j tained no specltlc counts.
' I * A.Ml'A It;.V IS A I,MOST
lllOltKKT OK ISSt'F.M
Taken all in all, the campaign at
! its finish may be regarded us almost
I totally bereft of issues. Wide dif
ferences between the two parties re
! main, of course, and a wide choice left
' to the voters, but these differences
j have not been created hy the pledges
which the Itepubliean candidate ha I
made to the country or hy Che success
j with which he has condemned the pro
gram of Democratic achievements
They are fundamental differences, the
J difference between ? reactionary or
I conservative party, on the one hand,
: :>t.<l a progressive or radical party on
j the fit he r.
j W'l.tii the campaign opened the Ke
; i uhl>.*iYis staked their fortunes almost
( wholly upon what they believed to be
t he weakness of the Wilson foreign
policies. Their platform at t'hicaco
was a territlc arraignment of the
President's dealings with Mexico and
Kuropc. In his informal acceptance
and again in his formal acceptance Mr.
Hughes echoed every line and word
in this platform. And f<>r weeks he
?reiterated his denunciation of these
policies.
I'.ut the lleptihliciui candidate has
found since that tin* country in mi
sense is excited sihottt Mexico: that
the people are vefy well satisfied with
any relat ionship toward Mexico that
; ?.void sirm. -' intervention, and that it
has been dilllcult to make a ease
against th*' effort Wilson has made to
raise up a stable government in the
southern republic. Kj degrees the
Mexican i|iustion was slo>\ . d to the
background, and to-day it is a matter
of minor interest only.
An abortive attempt was made, in
this connect ion, to array the Catholic
t'hurcli in this country against l'r?-s
ident Wilson, on the ground that the
recognition of Oarranza in effect was
i an approval by the Democratic ad
ministration of t'arranzista outrages
against the church in Mexico. This
nlatt to prostitute the church to par
' tisan ends seems to have failed, though
I in spots resentment still is felt against
the President on this account.
??AN IIONOUAIIM-; l?i:\(
A NSW Mils AM. (|l MVIIONS
lo all the Itepuldkaii clamor for 'he
protection of American rights abroad
i and for a tinner attitude toward Ku
ropean belligerents, the invariable an
j swer has conic that President Wilsi.i,
' lias maintained an honoraldc peace
J through crises more grave than any th<
country has faced in two gvn<-rations
I And the peace sentiment in tiie fnit?d
' States has been found to be litcrallv
'overwhelming. To avoid offending this
I sentiment. the Itepuldlcans - all oi
them except Colonel KooseVelt- -ha\e
j found it wise to neutralise their fero
,'ty toward the Wilson handling of th<
| iliiiopean complications.
The insistent demand from the poo
tContinued on Second Page.)
HAI.TIMOKK 1?Y BOAT.
At nil 'the moMt deliKhttuI water
trio In Aim rlcu. 12.Gil <?ne wuy: Jt.&O round
trip. YOUK ltlVlift LINK-Adv.
{
Wilson and Hughes Remain
Quietly in Their Homes,
Their Battling Ended.
NOTHING TO DO BUT AWAIT
VERDICT OF THE VOTERS
Political Headquarters Still Pre
sent Scenes of
Activity.
SO CIIANGK IX PUOl'HK^lKS
loach Chairman St II! Insists That
His Candidate Will
Win.
(By Associated I'r^ss.!
! NEW YORK. November ?On tho
, eve of the presidential election, gener.il
J confidence in the result ? ? f the balloting
i to-tnorrow was expressed in the catnps
' of the rival Republican and Democratic
J forces. Political workers had cont
| pleted their tasks, their leaders had
| issued the usual final forecasts, and
J nothing remained but the work of
bringing: out the vote.
' To-night the standard hearers of the
j leading parties remained quietly at
J their homes. President Wood row Wil
son at Shadow Lmvn ami Charles K.
Hughes at his hotel In New York.
Surrounded only by Immediate mem
bers of their families, the candidates
I plan to receive the election returns at
I their homes.
To-tnorrow Mr. Wilson will go to
Princeton to vote at the old fire-engine
house near the Princeton campus. Mr.
Hughes will vote in a laundry on
! Forty-fourth Street. New York, near
j his hotel headquarters.
rOLITICAl. II10A DQ CAUTIOUS
.V It 10 SCION US OK ACTIVITY
Political headquarters here still pre
sented scenes of activity to-day.
Last reports from the political battle
field were received and final instruc
tions st;nt. Both the chairmen had
' little to add t?i their forecasts issued
I on Sunday night. Republican Chalr
( iiiun Willcox then predicted Hughes
; would receive at least 100 majority lit
,1 the electoral collegel while Democratic
j Chairman McCorinick gave Mr. Wilson
i 3lit votes, his final estimate being
I 3l>S votes. The necessary elective vote
! in the college is 2t!ti.
The weather man has promised gen
erally fair weather and moderate tem
| perature in most parts of the country
| for election day, and political leaders
said this presaged the coming out of a
record-breaking vote.
Mlticlals to be elected follow:
President and Vlce-l'resldent.
Thirty-three United States Senators.
Four hundred and thirty-live mem
bers of the House of Representatives.
Thirty-11 vo Governors.
Legislatures and other minor State
ofll ?es.
SIOVIOHAIj status Wll.I.
YOTIO OX AMIJXDM10XTS
The State's of Idaho. Michigan, Mis
' souri. Montana, Nebraska, South Du
| kota, Maryland. Arkansas and Califor
i nia will, however, vote on the prohi
bition questions, an issue that has
loomed large on the political horizon
! for several years past. The territory
lot" Alaska will also vote on this ques
i tion. In Arizona an amendment for
I tho abolition '.if capital punishment
| will be up for popuJ.tr decision.
Women's part In the presidential
election is one of the (.utstanding fea
tures. In one quarter of the forty
. eight States women have the vote this
i year. The twelve States are Wyoming,
Colorado. Utah, Idaho, Washington,
California, Arizona. Kansas. Oregon,
? Nevada, Montana and Illinois. The
women in the last named six States
have .he vote for President this year
for the firs', time. Tho States. Involved
have ninety-one electoral votes, a little
more than one-sixth cf tho electoral
i college's total votes.
Miss Jeannette Rankin, of .Montana,
is running for Congress on the Repub
lican ticket. and in California Mrs.
.Josephine Fernahl, of San Francisco, ifl
n n aspirant for a seat in Congress as a
. Democrat. If they are elected they
will !>?? the first women to win seats in
the national Hons of Representa
tives. The Progressives of the First
Colorado Congressional District also
nominated a woman. Hatti* K. Howard,
hut she has since withdra \-n.
imum.ui:*si\ i:s \\ ii.i. ti it \
TII1I0 IN MOW YO UK
! My Am-m<1ii!ci1 Pres.s. 1
I MOW YORK. November rt.?With
: Governor Whitman and Samuel Sea
bur.v. Republican and Democratic can
didates for Governor, respectively,
making final appeals to the voters of
this city, the New York State campaign
dosed to-night. The head of each
State ticket join-d his campaign man
; agers in professing confidence in the
outcome of the balloting to-morrow,
i Resides voting for presidential elee?
i tors and a State ticket, the voters of
Ibis State will elect a United States
Senator. a congressional delegation,
and will pass on the proposition of u
.?1 ii.iniM.iMiii bond issue for a site for a
State park, and decide whether to call
another constitutional convention.
Forecasts >?f the result to-morruw
varied widely, but it was generally
:t?;reed that the lid, for I he national
ticket would be turned by those who
voted as Progressives four years ago.
The combined Taft and Roo*evelt vote
in lit!'.' wat Mj.SM), as compared with
r.us>,r>7r> for Wilson. In Greater Now
York, which the Republicans concede
will return a Democratic plurality tfibi
J year, the Taft and Roosevelt vote to*
' get her exceeded l?y 3,092 that cast for
Wilson.
While the Republicans contend that
the greater part of those who supported
Roosevelt four years ago will nwing
