KIGHT
mTRA
&&t
6
V0i.Hl.-NO. 47
Ml "t ---- -A .
JJT'tl4 A
T 1 B N a MK i
e
- w
tfiort
EXTRA,
PmiiADELPmA, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1910
ConttonT. M8, bt Tn rctito Lntn Cownm
PIUOB OKB OKNT
JNHt VOTE POLLED EARLY:
"SILENT" ELEMENT PUZZLES
PRESIDENCY FIGHT LEADERS
jonsors on tfotn biaes at J8ea Over
Ejection Outlook Betting in Wall
Street at Even Money Many
Millions Are Staked
j
lughes Will Have at Least 100 Votes to Spare," Willcox
b. Wn Will P.nrrv All So.nnlln -nu...i
States," McGormick's Final Claim as
Nation Begins Balloting
K 'NEW" YORK, Nov. 7-Tho flood of ballots which will awoep either Wilson
. gaghes into the presidency on March 4 began rising early today.
While publicity sponsors for the Republican and Democratic organizations
Ut6 entiro confidence in the vote, privately they are very much at sea. In
IW previous election has thsro been such complete lack of" indication of which
y the straws blow. ine -siient vote nas Deen more silent than ovor before.
e the campaign opened adoui August l, mere nave been half a dozen different
Aa ti nubile sentiment overlapping at times. Todnv hnth xlrloa
ninff'the benefit of such a current.
tone before the polls wcro opened in many large cities workinemen wero
I line. Managers of both parties said the full strength of the labor vote would
i polled. n
The most unusual eleventh-hour developments In connection with the elec
ts wa in tho betting. Wall street prides itself on having always picked a
er. Up Until midnight tho odds favored Hughes. But today they opened
(ess advantage to tho Republican nominee almost at oven money. At the
lorf Tex Rickard, discarding for the nonce the role of fight promoter to act
betting commissioner, couldn't place money except at even money. More
tblican cash was in evidence than Democratic. Ifc was estimated that at
i $7,000,000 will change hands on the verdict of the voters today probably
largest sum that has over been wagered on a presidential election.
CHANGE IN WAGERS
if the odds here were, slightly In favor
'jfcHCheB, messages from certain mid-west
indicated a complete reversal. In
d, for Instance, betting commlsslon-
feWe said, Wilson ruled the favorite.
JfcforU received at Republican and
.Uc '.headquarters emphasized the
Interest In the result in every section
country. Long before the polls
In the various cities long lines of
were In waiting. Here In New York
reports from tho various polling
showed that despite the, complex
the votes "were coming1 in fast. Slml-
sorts came from the up-State cities,
frt vtrnn nnlltlcnl txDerts declared
I U. Indicated generally straight bal
ls .".A ' ..".., ..i
yery mile cuihhb.
LAST WORDS OF CHAIRMEN
"last word of the national campaign
to&V as they waited for the
fjfithe'polU waVas follows:
l K Willeoxj Republican "Mr.
'will have at least 100 vote to spare
tltjleiil college."
McCormlck, Democrat "Juate r-
the West Indicate that I care Mr.
tM.ms.nr votes when I allotted htai
ijiln She electoral eollece. We are
. ( tsrrr erery one of the so-called
H),tltl."
nnux oc wuson money in me closing
;o the campaign gladdened the Wll-
iwirers. They saw in It an effort on
t ot the professional betting element
ige- their bets in the light of the
'reports' bt increasing Wilson sent!
Is the West. Singularly enough the
supporters also seemed well pleased
change in the betting odds. They
that the Wilson followers had utll-
very'avaliable dollar in a last minute
.19. swing the betting lor tne enect it
have, upon the voters and they ar-
that' this action had come too late.
the money tied up could not be used
them;
HOT FIGHT FOU CONGRESS
the presidential contest over.
all else the fact that control of
also hung' in the balanco today
lost sight of by. tho political lead-
Democrats were confident that
retain control of the Senate, in.
teat, 'while they might lose some
(the Sast, they were certain to make
tstse 'west
Republicans 'frankly admitted that
,'CurttooM en Pats Two, Column Xlr
THE' WEATHER
J
WSATHER FORECAST
imw Mteovtrv eolar hyi(c III
' fc tfOOK and W. f . OAKOTJIERB
t for Pennsylvania!
1V,' November 12 The week will
H and chilly, fairing up Tues
f" Irsetlng temperatures.
" "ovemoer 10, to Saturday,
I II It Will hA WflTm. bmH nn-
Tburadav anil Vriiinv ni. ..
""taf, to polder at he close pc the'
niS?r5nt dUB t0 develop In north-
.""d .States Novmihir 1i will i
movement, sandwiched In be.
iJT1' colI c,'"r weaker in
hrSrL0nVmnt ' au November 18,
mZudJS, V" h' t the
E" sn4 twentv dirrM ,u.. i
1 of the Jteoky MountelM.
'FORkaAffp
'M W tiMnUyFair
a. w.
v. .
or BAY
IV fcSlu-tif
1 ' WlHt flNAMHii
a!2THUT .
u;:S: tits. Mfe'. u . m.
!Hi. ,'sa;
??? . AT J5 W
3T3r4n
J AMD tOTJHD
ft.
lot.
r sauk
OL" .n BrTn,
1-11
Man-
C.fB85!fc
i"t
8srMBVjZ3
1,500,000 WOMEN
FLOCK TO POLLS;
LEADERS WORRY
"
"Can't Figure" How They
"Will Vote, Political Sage
Admits
BOTH SIDES CLAIM THEM
CHICAGO, Nov. If The unknown quan
tity in this election the nation's women vo
ters, of whom, there" are 1,600,000 trooped
to the polls this'mornlng with the politically
dreaded "balance, of power" In their hand
bags. They went about their work very se
riously and with every ' Indication of earn
estness at least in (Jtilcago-whlle cam
paign managers; district captains, precinct
bosses and common wardheel6rs looked on
with doubt and misgivings.
"They can't bo figured' on.;' walled one
"captkln1' down In the First Ward the
"Famous First" made so by the political
peregrinations of "Bathhouse John" and
"Hinky Dink." The wall seemed general.
The women were the political thorns In the
side of the dopesters. And there are 1,600,
000 of these thorps, scattered throughout
twelve States.
In Illinois alone, approximately 700,000
women are voting for President today.
These figures are based on the registration
and allowances made for the many who
undoubtedly will not cast their ballots. In
Chicago alone there are more than 300,000.
Public campaign .managers on both sides
are proclaiming to the high heavens that
the women are "with ua," rrlvately they
admit they don't know any more about how
the women are voting than their question
era. The wall of the precinct captain,
"They can't be figured on," seemed to fit
the case perfectly;
The early balloting of the women In Chi.
cago was heavy,
SWARM TO POLLS
There were only a few In line when the
polls opened at 6 a, in., but starting a half
hour later they came In seemingly never,
ending numbers And by 8 o'clock thousands
had voted. This, despite the ndvanco fig
uring of the wiseacres that "the women
won't be around till they've powdered their
noses." .
Mrs. and Miss Chicago went to the voting
booths without powdering their noses, judg
ing from the early balloting. Fair weather
and the vigorous campaigns which have
been conducted in Chicago wero largely
responsible for this, Volftlclans said. Chi
cago and Illinois have Just passed through
Continued en Fas gU, Column Four
Clear Day (lives Promise
of Record'Breaking Vote
i -
CLEAR autumn weather ushered
in Election Day in every section
of the United States, indicating that
r tremendous vpte would be polled.
New York, Chisago and San Fran
cisco weather reports predict a clear
fall day.
The report received are:
war aaa mm.
rMMMBkU-
BMtaaM Clear.
KvatM Osar,
MnMkaai Clear,
fWsaaa WaJisf'wMttH
Has iVsmltce 01
r Bad khA.
irHr eioul.cJcarlM ,
mr tMnawtw H,
"""!
and warn.
iwuM.
r Mi M (,.
"f
" !
"MMjMf-CM
' K'Wmmr ana ws
feyfejfclfsH.ty.
1sHIH Wm
aC3S32SX3SS3r3S:
DR. CONSTANTIN DUMBA
EX-ENVOY DUMBA' DIES
Former Austrian Ambassador to U. S.,
forced to Quit by Wilson. Ex--plres
in Vienna ist (
GENEVA, Nov, It Dr. Constantln Dum
ba, former Austrian Ambassador to the
United States, died today, says a dispatch
frora Vienna.
On Saturday It was announced In Vienna
that Emperor Francis Joseph had accepted
Doctor Dumba's resignation from tho dlplo
matte service of Austria-Hungary.
Doctor Dumba was named Austro-Ilun-garian
Ambassador to the United States In
1913 and served until September, 1915,
when his recall was asked by President
Wilson. The demand for the diplomat's
recall followed revelations that he . was
engaged In a propaganda to cripple the out
put of American munitions factories by
fomenting strikes.
DREAM OF GREAT
INSURANCE POOL
NOW SHATTERED
O'Neill Promises Sensations
In Pension Mutual
Company Case
HINTS AT PROSECUTION
The consolidation of soventy-ctght In.
surance companies Into ono large company,
with himself aa the dominating power, was
the dream of Lyndon D. Wood, once a hum
ble Insurance solicitor, and now president
of tho Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany, of Pittsburgh, Pa., against whlcn a
decreo of dissolution has been asked by the
Attorney General'" Department.
Emlners of the Insurance Department
have "''discovered that the Pension Mutual
Life Insurance Company, which has a
branch at Thirteenth and Spring Oarden
streetn, has a total deficiency amounting to
$1,098,422.60. Insurance policies Issued by
this, company to Philadelphia letter carriers
and Postoflibe clerks alone amount to
$1,034,000.
Attorney General Drown said today that
as yet ha has not read the report of the
Insurance examiners, biu that he was ready
to act against the Pension Mutual Life In
surance Company on any recommendation
that might be made by Insurance Commie
sloner O'Neill..
"I will start criminal prosecutions should
the evidence warrant It," said Mr. Drown.
Within the last teyr weeks there have been
many .charges mad? by certain persons
who had po evidence .to confirm the truth
fulness of these accusations. On many oc
casions when some of thot charges were In
vestigated we found that there was pergonal
malice back of them."
A part of the examiner's report reads:
"About J971.200 worth of bonds (book
value) have disappeared. This, however,
startling as It may appear, Is a fact. The
only explanation for the company not being
In possession of stress bonds Is that given
by ihe secretary"of the company, Charles
Frltch, who states that these bonds have
Continued on Para Hit, Column One
SAVES HER BABY FROJI FIRE
';
Woman Leavei iipk Bed and Carries
Infant From Home
A woman, sick In bed, saved her one-year,
old child and herself today when Are that
caused, J1000 .damage broke out op the floor
below at 4115 Pauf'atreet. Frankford.
Mrs. Iluth Itatto was'ttrquaed by the smell
of smoke. She orept'frem her bed and went
downstairs, finding the flames in the
kitchen. Hurrying '.upstairs, she snatched
up her baby FrawsV.and ran from tha
home. Neighbors sued, for her,'' Mice
EWwlg matches are thought to have,
saused'the fire. ,
' ''i . hi
'Nickel in Handkereliief" Trick Used
On charge of rpbWy W means a the
AA "Bkl In the WfttsrctUr trtok two
'wwm wr held last'ttht un4r SM ball
Magistrate Imbsr. TUy wre Wary Cs-
twanty-tttrte year olej, oTlsis stout Mr,
The dmn Uwy were nttnnsl of robbing were.
(Horse Hohuman, prnisrlshii of an oysler
wSunwt, at lJu'Wwia.airMt. aad
Are MBwissr, nMrajPjHt Vin stogtoe
deatcuuiy Ms- - JwJltew svenu
ltd yeoMft) slrss. ,t .
i(
ALL REPUBLICAN,
SAY LEADERS OF
CITY'S BALLOTING
Rush Indicates Heaviest
Vote in History of
Elections Here
BACK WALLING HEAVILY
Republicans Predict Victory for
State and National
Tickets
An army of voters flocked to the nolla
when they opened at 7 o'clock tills morning.
ana both Republican and Democratic lead
ers look for one of tho heaviest-votes In the
history of the city.
At 2 o'clock more than one-half of the
total registered voto In the city had been
polled. There was little splitting of tickets,
and Wilson failed to poll the percentage of
votes that had been predicted for him, ex
cept In the northeast. Even there, although
his vote Is apparently larger than the nor
mal Democratic strength by almost double,
the labor voto was almost evenly divided
between Wilson and Hughes.
In all sections of the city Justice Emory
A. Walling Is polling a heavy votn nn h
nonpartisan Jballot Leaders of both parties
are getting out a big vote for him.
COSTELLO LEADING
Congressman Costello, In the northeastern
district, and Congressman Darrow, In tho
West Philadelphia district, received, ma
Jorltles of almost two to ono pf the total
number of votes cast up until 2 o'clock,
Dave Martin, who Is seeking to succeed
PJchard V. arlcy In tho Stato Senate
from the 5th district, was running ahead of
Farley by a comfortable majority at noon.
Few Instances of troulilo wero reported,
and for' a heavy vote the election Is un
usually quiet. The first report of trouble nt
the polls came from the 24th division of the
39th Ward. The polling plnco la located nt
1212 Itltncr Street. I .
John Moflltt, Democratlo minority in
spector, complained to the Democratlo city
committee that, when the polls opened this
morning, tho Republican election Jud..
John Cree, had put him out of tho polling
place and had appoihted a minority In
spector of his own. Counsel for tho Demo
cratic city commltteo said that tho caso
would bo taken into the courts.
Magistrate Imber will sit all day at City
Ilall to bear cases of Irregularities. '
ALL REPUBLICAN
The P.epub,Hcan city coHunlUpft ; through
'William VL Finley, executive i dfrecto'r, la-,
sued a statement after the polls! had been
open for two hours'pl-edlctlng an old-lime
majority for Hughes here, The statement:
follows:
While voting- han been tn progress,
for only two hours, yet reports. from
all' over the city Indicate (hat all pre
dictions of a big Republican majority
will bo verified. Tho voting In tho
breakfast hours has been unusually
heavy, thus Indicating that tho big Re
publican vote Is being polled. ' Hughes
Is polling virtually a unanimous vote
In the central and southern wards. The
Independents In West Philadelphia, Ger
mantown nnd other outlying sections
nro returning solidly to the Republican
party. Reports from the northeast In
dicate that tho worklngmen of this
section are likewise supporting Hughes.
Democratic City Chairman Edgar W.
Lank voted at 9 o'clock at Fiftieth street
and Larchwood avenue. "When I voted,
125 baltdts had been cast In my division,"
ho said.
"If course I. don't expect the Democrats
to carry Philadelphia or tho State; that
would be hoping for too much. But I do
expect to see ihe largest Democratlo vote
rolled up In both Philadelphia and Pennsyl
vania that ever has been counted before."
Senator Boles Penrose cast his ballot at
12:20 at 244 South Twelfth street, which Is
the polling place of the 9th division of the
8th Ward. It took him Just ono minute to
mark his ballot and when he was finished
he handed It to one of his followers, who
placed It In the box. When asked his views
on the election, he said "I still adhere to
my original prediction, that Hughes would
win by a large majority,"
VARE OPTIMISTIC
State Senator Edwin H, Vara made the
rounds In his home ward, the 39th, early,
and then went to his otllce In the Lincoln
Building.
"There Is nothing to It but Ifughes," he
said. "A fair average of how the vote Is
going in South Philadelphia Is shown by
the last division I visited, the 2d of the 39th
Ward. There 8? votes wero cast up to
10:30, and of these only 6 were for Wilson."
Senator Vare cast tho thirty-ninth vote
at the polling place In the 15th division of
QUICK NEWS
WILSON LEADS IN REPUBLICAN PRECINCT IN KANSAS
( WICHITA, Knn., Nov. 7. wTlson had 85 votes nnd Hughes 8
in tho first counting of ballots hero today.. Tho count was In the
first precinct of the Third "Ward, heretofore a Bcpubllcnn precinct,
BIG. ELECTION FRAUD ALLEGED IN ST. LOUIS
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Nov. 7. Charges of wholesale election fraud in
this city are hclng mado by Republican Democratic leaders, rjfty
two negroes so far havo bccii arrested nt the instigation of Demo
cratlo challengers, i
WU TING FANG NAMED FOREIGN MINISTER
TEKIN, Nov. 7,-Wu Tint? Tang, former Chinese Ambassador
to tho United States, has been appointed Toreign Minister. The ap
pointment wa3 approved "today..
SENATOR, PENROSE GREETED AT POLLS
4
..
v
'...
Continued on race Two, Column Two
WOULD "REPEAT" FOR LADIES
Stimulated Voter Tells Touring Suffra
gists He'll Vote Second Timo in
Their Interests
"Uey, ladles, I voted for you thla, morn
ing and I'm going to vote again for you this
afternoon" , .
This salutation, launched by an 8th
Ward cltlien, whose wobb)yi condition
proved him' not too proud to drink, enliv
ened the suffrage tour which Mrs. George
A. DuBBlsg. chairman ef the Woman Suf
frage party, and her exhorts made of the
Fourth legislative district this merntag,
Th brllMantly decorated atomWU. with
Its yellow pennants and. Wers Mapping In
the breese, stwpsd t many toils, Daniel
gfeem La? were hosts to ths
women part of t ttm. Jok them tt( the'
voting booths and xplUxd the IntrloacUs
of the baltet,
Tfc sttHrsgM' m $ swmlura
,UI w tbi pUy sHssftJNktfaNr UUfwtM re
nHUr ttwttwH m mtbmm ttvt
HOP u hi iji r" T.T .... i ."' i
mm jri . i r
S.
JBV$T3ki1AM iissiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBl y y 'SH'
jKKs?HByHHij. sLIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIKT' i'X H, '
fiV ;"3l -f JR $-2 Si' 'VHDBBB' i JjfLK W 'H
iv fesE $T.iiBHBisiiii sssHKHHsislllHslillBl '. fi
$ w&fP3T B HsHkHiiiiiHlj' -
-I W-Miiiik'KM ssbiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHDsbis8B ssiisiiiiiiiiiK Wi
.-..
(J-?i
f
S.4 (is
39f?W-. 'i
When the Senator appeared at his voting place, at 24G South Twelfth
street, today, he was congratulated in advance on tho result of today's
election by S. II. Wilson, colored, who informed tho Senator that ho was
tho father of seven sons, all of whom are helping to turn in a big
mnjority for tho "right ticket."
FIRST TOWN TO REPORT GIVES HUGHES 16, WILSON 7
I'lTTSFIBLD, Mass., Nov. 7. New Ashford, smallest town In Massachusetts,
fourteen miles north of-Pittsfleld, In Berkshire County, was tho first town In the
United States today to announce Its election results. Out of 25 registered voters
23 voted. The voto was: Hughes, 1C; Wilson, 7. In 1912 New Ashford's voto Was:
Roosevelt, 0; Taft, 7; Wilson, 4. That President Wilson ran away ahead of his
ticket In New Ashford is shown by the voto for other 'ofllces. In tho voto for
United States Senator Ucnry Cabot Lodse received 21 'and John F. Fitzgerald, of
Boston, 2, For Governor Samuel W. McCall, Republican, received 19 and Fred
erick W. Mansfield, Democrat, 4, Last year McCall, for Governor, had 15 Votes
and Walsh, Domocrat, 1.
COTTON EXPORTATION JUMPS
WASHINGTON, Nov. 7. Cotton exports for tho week ending November 4
wcro 209,009 bales, against 112,930 bales In tho corresponding week of 191C, Ex
ports since August 1 total 1,964,290 bales, agulnst 1,336,130 bales In 1915,
WILLCOX GETS LOVING CUP AT REPUBLICAN RECEPTION
NEW YORK, Nov. 8. deceptions fpr William R, Willcox, national Ropub.
Ilcan chairman, and the Republican headquarters staff wero hold at tho Har
vard Club this afternoon. A silver loving cup was presented to tho chairman,
Among those present were Charles Evans Hughes and Georgo W. I'erklns.
GERMAN AIRMEN AGAIN BOMBARD NANCY
PARIS, Nov, 7. German aviators have again bombarded Nanoy, tho French
War Olllco announced today In an olllclal communique
BRITISH NAVAL LOSSES HEAVY, BERLIN ASSERTS
BERLIN, Nov. 7. Slnco tho war began England has lost fourteen jor cent
of Its battleships, thirty -per cent of lis armored cruisers nnd fourteen per ce.t
of Its protected cruisers, It was announced today .throughout tho olllclal overseas
news agency. The announcement says that with tho sinking of u small British
cruiser off the Irish coast ly a German submarine the British naval losses now
aggregate 500,793 tons, not including auxiliary cruisers, tarpedoboats and sub
marines. It Is known, says tho statement, that England has lost fifty torpedo
boats and seventy-six submarines. j
SNOW IN DENVER AND EASTERN COLORADO
DENVER, Col., Nov. 7.'A sudden drop h temperature and a sharp north
west wind brought a mountain snowstorm Bwoop)njj down upon "Denver, and
eastern Colorado today,
THIS YEAR'S FOREIGN TRADE EIGHT BILLION DOLLARS
NEW YORK, Nov. 7.-r-Th foreign tradi department oMha National City Bnk
of New York has issued a statement in which, It predicts tht the teroign ti-4e X
ths.UnlUtd States for this year wl approximate $$,0,fG,, o-'Jtftkt &Ut Utimi
of intsrnati&aat tointnw, Tha bulletin declares th volurte 'at trada tw yr w)H
be fifty per cW iirter tlm In S15 anil douUe that, of 914, Flirursa tor nlH,
months of the year wf usd, tho etatHnt says, in reaching Um omnejuaiQii:
WADING Y.-W. ( A. STARTS CAMPAIGN FOR f!00 FUND
RKAXklKa. . Vv, T.Un4r th wnwnsst ot MM Csott ioam ti
HiHMiMa. tit Mssmtng Y. W, C. A. starUd wtniwign -toiay foe rlala 1H
t evr tss eriwi somnsss of the oouiac ym$r, um emln tw-M errtd oa
Mr m MsMllMtSS- Wf.
SHIPS AT SEA ;
TO GET FLASH
ON ELECTION
.
Evening Ledger Will
Wireless Results
Abroad
BLINKS AND TOOTS TO
. TELL STORY IN CITY
Two Flashes Means It's
Hughes, Five Mean Wil
son Is Winner N v
NEARBY SECTIONS JOIN IN
Wireless to Convey Election
News to Ships at ca
THE Evening Ledger's election an
nouncement idea has now become
the "Evening Ledger Wink-Toot
Wireless Plan" by virtue of an
nirrecment with two wireless stations
to flash the result of the presidential
election to ships at 'sea.
The Evening Ledger has cnRaged
two powerful wireless stations to
snnp tho news seaward through the
air. Ono station hns a radius of
800 miles and the other a radius of
000 miles,
Tho Evenino Ledger messages will
be marked for relay, so it is likely
that they will spread ovur a greater
'- cf the Atlantic Ocean.
Thero are 4000 wireless stations In
Philadelphia, G700 in the entire State,
15,000 in New Jersey and Delaware
and 27,000 in New York and vicinity.
All these will pick up tho Evening
Ledger messago and relay it to the
100,000 wireless ttations in the
United States.
Watch for the winkinrf of tho arc
lights of the city tonight, and listen
for the blasts from factory whistles.
They will tell tho story of the elec
tion. Two blink3 and two blasts
mean Hughes; five mean Wilson.
The "Evsnino I.EDOEn's plan for nnnouno
IriR the, presidential election result Is widen
ing In Its scope. By virtue of an agree
'mont with V. B. Chambers & Co., wireless
operators, 2010 Arch street, an Eveniho)
X.EDOEn message tolling; who Is elected wilt
be flashed to all. shlps-st sea within a
'radius of 800 mles of Philadelphia.
Bo. the' Evening I.EDaan's ecctUn An
ncuncement plan must now be known as tli
"wlnk-vhlBt!o-wlrclcsB-election srame,"
While the 1C.000 arc lights of, tho City are
wln.klns the news, and -while the whistles
of factories In all sections of the town are
whistling tho presidential tidings, two .pow
erful wireless stations will be snapping the
news through the ozone to hundreds of
ships. j
The message will rend, "Charles .Evans
Hughes has been ejected President of the
United States. Signed, Evenino Ledoeh":
or "Woodrow Wilson has been re-elected
President of the United States. Signed,
KvENiNa LEDQEn." Thus win the Evening)
Ledoeh spread the news of the most mo
mentous presidential election in this na
tion's history to the thousands of persons
who will be afloat tonight In the Atlantla
Ocean. Some of these persons afloat are
residents of Philadelphia, others are citi
zens of other American cities and still others
uro citizens of other countries. But all will
bo vitally .Interested In the election of a
President of the United States in this crit
ical period In the world's history,
RELAYS ON AND OK
The messages sent seaward over the air
waves will bear the governmental stamp of'
the Chambers Company station, which Is
3XC, and also the governmental Stamp of
tho station of IX C. Andrews, located at
Prince of Peace Chapel, Twenty-second and
Morrison streets, The Federal stamp of
this station Is 3TQ. Kvenino Lepobsj
messages from both stations will also bear
the letters QST, which means "relay," In
other words, as fast as one ship equipped
t'ontlnurd, on lai Six, Column Twe
- i
JEALOUS, SHOOTS MAN,
CHOPS BODY TO PIECES
Makes Wife Help Pack .Remain
Into Trunk and Hide
Crime
LITTLE FAtXS, N, V., Nov. 7,-7lchJ
Maskq, forty-one years old, of this cHy,
confessed to the police here today that b (
killed Itosollno Crlpottl, chopped hi bo4y
to pieces, packed It tn a trunk, csrrM U
an old dump qn the outskirts of this, Crty
and left It there, where It was dtwovcs4
several days ago by boys at play. 0
The wife of the prisoner. ul risUf tau:
the polios her knowledge coMwalMC' tfcf' ,
crime, and the police state that It agree in .
every detail with, the eanfessfam ,o(
Jealousy was the meiv tor th
Masko says Its had low insssiated TtlilsUH .
of .frjlwidtowts with K,' M m$'4mv J"
last Fry sWrt. w4m, -rtis4 tnmw
his 'work, he ' Hkuntf Ortpo ms str '
Maske tHMtbw. , Maslw f ls kmtl.
amjeijr whk uivkuw osatia. susa ian oeoh. ?'
pmm n rsvsnu mr issupwissi Ms ssHtt
t "t.,l rjwtn Iks T ths '
dd ikan stowa to if llar asst fisrnslg
N-tUI Ummfr-imt ths lM4y
paokilKjtihi trunk.
' .-tp, ,.,.ii , ..
Vswissi IsMtt tBllfbt ,
A prediction thai tsosj niumi
NMHiMtH wilt n IMtooMaCul throu
Peiuuiylvuni ha be pwits by (few
deJulat UinsI Oiitiaa Mssw Mat(wr ejT T
the wCtM )" UMM esi opttou wtM olM 't'i
DCIvr i niiMilfcwrw 'worn
Ueacta UM m awr fasvwus i
.'
i
c
