(
. I 0 *
WEATHER. if i ^ "flW/f "From Premm to Home
Fair tonight and tomorrow; mild tena- I j^. ^ ^ ^ k yf m """"""?'"""?????????
Temperature for twenty-four hours fl 1 ^ II jf |\ j l l^ll^ I \ ! f]/jV Within the Horn**
p.m.: Highest, at 3:30 p.m. 1/ L' U A -1,
HrMv ^AivUlUM <2DAaA* ,,.?..._.._
^ ^ U0^F 1916. Dally Average. 76.991s SuBlaf, 5M71.
No. 29,41)5. ~ WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
TWO BIG. WARSHIPS |i
STRUCK BY BRITISH i
TORPEDOES, CLAIM!
Dreadnaughts of Kaiser Class!
Said to Have Met Disaster j
in North Sea. '
ENGLISH LIGHT CRUISER ;
SUNK, BERLIN DECLARES '
7 a
1
Austrian Submarine and Italian
Both Lost in Sharp
Naval Duel. t
Br the Associated Press. I ^
LONDON, November 7. 2 p.m.?A t
claim that two dreadnaughts were hitjf,
by the British submarine which yes-J c
terday was reported launching a tor- ^
pedo at and striking a German dread- s
naught in the North sea. is contained in y
a further report received from the com- r
manding officer of the submarine, it c
was officially announced today. The
two dreadnaughts claimed to have been
struck were battleships of the Kaiser
class. The official statement reads: F
"With reference to yesterday's com- j f
munique, a further report has now ! a
been received by the commanding of- ?
ficer of the submarine. He now claims e
to have hit two dreadnaught battle- 1
ships of the Kaiser class." 0
Five of the Kaiser Class. 1
The naval registers show five dread- r
naught battleships of the Kaiser class. *
all completed between October. 1912. ]
and August. 1913. Besides the name f
ship of the class they are the Friedrich ^
der Grosse. Kaiserin. Prinz Regent
Luttpold and Koenig Albert. The displacement
of each is 24.700 tons, length
501 feet, beam ninety-five feet and Q
draft twenty-seven feet. Their arma- ^
ment consists of ten twelve-inch guns. e
fourteen six-inch guns, twelve twentyfour
pounders and four anti-aircraft d
guns. They are equipped with five tor- t
pedo tubes, submerged. The Kaiser's .
best speed record is given as 23.6 knots.
Reports that the Kaiser was sunk in c
the Jutland sea fight last May were s
semi-officially denied in Berlin. It was i
stated that the Kaiser was onlj' twice n
lightly hit by gunfire, one man being n
killed.
a
Total British Warship Losses. p
BERLIN. November 7, by wireless to t,
Sayville. ? 'The sinking of a British y
small cruiser off the Irish coast by a ^
German submarine has IfTfeWas^' the b
total British losses in battleships and a
cruisers to 501.790 tons." says an Over- ^
... ?
seas News Agency announcement to- j,
day. 'This does not include British
auxiliary cruisers, submarines, torpedo o
boats or guardships lost. o
"According to the known strength of h
the British navy at the beginning of d
the war. it has lost 14 per cent of its p
battleships. 30 per cent of its armored ii
cruisers and 14 per cent of its protect- d
ed cruisers. Thirty-Sine ships, of a
total of 443.500 tons, have been destroyed
by German naval forces.
"The extent of the British losses is
notable, in view of the fact that at 1
the beginning of the war the French
navy's tonnage was 497,000 and the
Italian navy's. 335.000. h
"Moreover, the British navy has lost b
flftv tnmortn Vm ,u t a of 71 'Aft tnnn ,,,1 I
? v~""' ?' > I V
seventy-six submarines. j
"The figures given take into consid- i "
eration only those losses regarding F
which no doubt exists." fi
F
Go Down in Sea Duel. h
V
ROME. Monday, November 6, via f
Paris, November 7.?An Austrian submarine
and an Italian destroyer were
sunk In a duel on the night of October
16, according to an official statement a
issued by the admiralty today. The ^
submarine had attacked a transport,
which escaped. The text of the state- e
ment follows: y
"An Austrian submersible attempt- 8
ed on the night of October 16-17 to tor- V
pedo one of our transports conveying 11
troops, but was discovered and at- ?
tacked by a convoying destroyer. The
submersible and the destroyer sank, r
while the transport reached its destina- *
tion safely. The majority of the crew 0
of the destroyer were saved and two p
officers and eleven men of the crew ^
of the submarine were made prisoner. 8
"On the night of November 1 our de- c
stroyers, alter crossing boldly and sua- 0
? essfully a mine zone and surmounting 1
by their daring solid obstacles defend- ^
ing the Fasana-Pola canal, managed to *
titer the customary anchorage of part 8
of the Austrian fleet. Two torpedoes 8
were fired against one large ship and 1
were observed to catch in the vessel's r
torpedo net.
Reconnoiter at Pola. c
"For two hours our destroyers ret on- *
noitered within a few hundred yards of 8
the forts and strong citadel of Pola, and c
only withdrew when they had aceom- s
plished different and most delicate mis- r
sions. Numerous powerful searchlights \
beat the sky and sea and batteries t
opened random and futile fire.
"On the night of November 3 several
of our destroyers sank a large Austrian
steamer anchored at Durazzo. under the 11
shelter of defenses and a mine zone, a
Enemy destroyers came out and were
attacked by our ships, which forced their
retreat. Our destroyers then returned a
sareiy to their base. j o
"On November 5 three enemy destroy- | n
era appeared at dawn before Santa j t
Pidiolmare. and began to bombard that
part of the coast, although no military js
works are there. One of our armored ! p
trains rushed up, engaged and drove off c
the enemy. Two destroyers were hit; v
one was seen with a heavy list being <j
asisted by others. The enemy fire was
Ineffective, one railroad man being j
slightly wounded and small damage done c
to private property." \
RELIEF BODY LOSES 12 SHIPS. '
Belgian Commission Suffers Through j
Medium of Torpedoes and Mines. '
I/ONDON, November 7.?Great Britain t
has addressed a note to the American t
and Spanish ambassadors regarding
the recent sinking of a Greek steamer
carrying supplies for the commission
for relief in Belgium. I>ord Robert
Cecil, minister of war trade, told the
house of commons today. Since the
beginning of the commission's work, it
was stated, twelve of its ships have
been sunk, two or three of them being
torpedoed, while the rest were the
-victims of mines.
NO HALF HOLIDAY
ORDER YET ISSUED
Story Current in Washington
Denied at Summer Executive
Offices.
HCTION IS EXPECTED SOON
A high official of the White House,
lesely connected with the summer ex
xni live offices at Asbury Park, and in
?osition to know what he is talking
ibout. today told a representative of
rhe Star, over long-distance telephone,
hat there is no truth in various reports
tnd rumors current in Washington today
hat President Wilson has taken favortble
action on the proposition to exend
Saturday half holidays to every
Saturday in the year.
This authority states that the Presilent
has done nothing, but is expected
o act when he has received reports
rom all his cabinet officers. Two of the
abinet officers called upon for reports
lave not sent in their opinions, it is
tated. owing to their ^absence from
Washington on political errands. At any
ate. the President has not had time to
onsider the reports received by him.
President's Known Sympathies.
The intimation is strong that the
'resident's action in asking for reports
rom his 'cabinet advisers is regarded
round the summer White House as an
naication of his intention to issue an
xecutive order granting half holidays
he year round. This fact has not been
verlooked by ihose who have been ex- |
ecting the President to sign his name
o such an order.
Tne President's sympathies in this diection
have been pronounced for years,
le personally believes in Saturdays as
holiday, for during his term of nearv
four years in office he has rarely
ailed to set all official business aside
n Saturdays and take the day for
ecreation.
Reported Printing of Order.
Two reports were current today. One
f these was that the government
minting office is now printing an executive
order for Saturday half holiays
all the year, while another was
hat the President had acted, but that
he order would require government
lerks to begin w-ork at 8:30 a.m. intead
of 9 o'clock and quit at 5 p.m.
nstead of 4:30 o'clock. This would
lean an hour more each day and would
lore than make up the time granted.
Cabinet officers in Washington who
re usually well informed as to the
urposes of the President stated today
hat they had not heard of any action
aken by him and doubted if he had
et done anything. Relative to the reorted
presence at the government
rinting office of an executive order
eing put into type for distribution
mong the departments, it is positively
nown that no official document on this
ubject has reached the White House
ere for printing.
The custom of the summer executive
ffices at Asbury Park is to send all
fficial business to the executive offices
ere for distribution to the respective
epartments, and there is little pros<ect
that this habit was departed from
n the matter of Saturday half holiays.
May Confer With Cabinet.
The opinion is expressed today that
he President may consider the matter
,t the first cabinet meeting to be held,
ere after his return to Washington
efore taking action, although this
rould not be necessary when he has
efore him the views of his advisers,
'urther consultation with cabinet ofcers
is suggested, however, if the
resident contemplates adding to the
ours of work through the week. He
irould want advice as to the best time
or starting and ending work.
Doubt as to Details.
Although nearly all the members of the
dministration in this city are satisfied
tiat it is the President's purpose to have
he Saturday half-holiday applied to the
xecutive departments in this city all the
ear round, there appears to be coniderable
doubt as to when the new sysem
sha\l take effect or whether or not
t also embodies an extension of hours
n the other working days of the week.
Chief Clerk Davis of the State Delartment
said he had no knowledge
hat a proclamation or executive order
m the subject had been sent to the
government printing office, to be pronulgated
after the elections are over,
.nd he added that all business of that
haracter was transacted through his
ffice. He explained that in the regilar
course of business such papers
usually were sent to his office from the
resident's office in manuscript, and
tfter being given a serial number were
ent to the government printing office,
vhere they were put iii type and then
eturned to his office for issue. No
?roclamation or executive order relatng
to office hours in Washington, delared
Mr. Davis, had passed through
hat routine since the subject was takn
up by the President several weeks
t go. Mr. Davis said that while he
ould not say absolutely that no nrrior
hanging the office hours had been
ent by the President to the governnent
printing office, he could say most
ositively that no such order had
assed through his office one way or
he other.
Longer Hours Not Favored.
The alleged plan of coupling the Satrday
half holiday privilege with an
dded hour of labor during the other i
ays of the week meets with no favor
mong the clerks and other employes
f the State, War and Navy departnents.
Protest was strongest against
he proposal to begin work at 8:30 in-,
tead of 9 as at present, but there was
general opposition to the proposed inrease
of hours during five days of the
veek to make up for the half day holilay
on Saturday.
One clerk said he couldn't see the
ustice of giving them four hours off
>n Saturday and adding five hours
abor to the remainder of the week.
Knother clerk made a calculation to
jhow that the alleged plan of hours from
1:30 to 5 o'clock five days in the week
vith a half day off on Saturday would
compel the clerks to work 129 hours
nore in each year than they do under
he present system, with half days off
Saturdays during thirteen weeks of
lummer and the 9 to 4:30 o'clock sysem
at other times.
ENCOURAGE THRIFT.
If you have no further use for today's
paper save It for the school
children's playground fund.
Call Main *000 and ask for the
nearest public school, and any accumulation
of old papers will be
sent for.
Yesterday's record was more than
four tons. ^
RUMANIANS GAIN
ALL ALONG FRONT
IN THE OOBRUDJA
i
| Continuation of' Successes
; Against von Macke.-.sen Reported
From Bucharest.
BERLIN ADMITS ENEMY
SUCCESS NEAR TULGHES
Austro-German Forces Report Successes
at Certain Points on
Transylvania Front.
j By flic Associated Press.
| BUCHAREST, November 7, via London.
4:36 p.m.?The Rumanian forces
in Dobrudja which recently assumed
the offensive against Field Marshal von
Mackensen's army are continuing their
successes, the war office announced
today. Progress for the Rumanians
along the entir^ Dobrudja front is reported.
BERLIN, November 7. by wireless
to Say vi lie.?On the Transylvanian
front, in the region of Tulghes, the
Russians yesterday forced back AustroGerman
troops, it is announced officially.
The Teutonic forces gained
ground west of Bodza pass at the point
of the bayonet.
Near Rothonthurm pass the Austrians
and Germans advanced and took
more than 1,000 prisoners. Near Vulcan
pass further ground was gained.
West of Tirgujuily valley the Ruman|
ians undertook without success six
I counter attacks during the night.
Rumania Must Atone, He Says.
! Rumania in her present serious posi
, tion is suffering because of the misI
take she made in contracting an alliance
at variance with her traditions
and her geographical position, declared
Premier Radoslavoff of Bulgaria in an
interview published in the newspaper
Az Est of Budapest, obtained by its
Sofia correspondent.
"Rumania is in a serious position," .
said the premier, in the interview. "She, I
became false to her historical aims and' I
now must atone for it. The geographi- I
cal position of the country showed I
clearly a road which should have led to
an alliance with Germany and AustriaHungary.
Rumania had been deluded
and misled by her success of 1913 and
now the country has fallen into German
hands. Such a collection of mistakes
could not remain unpunished.
"Rumania already has lost her independence.
as the Russian censor and
the Russian policemen rule in the land. I
She is entirely in control" of gem erals
and"" general staffs of the entente."
Separate Peace Scouted.
Asked as to his opinion regarding
the rumors as to a separate peace, Premier
Radoslavoff said:
"I do not credit such rumors, which |
undoubtedly originate from the fact
that the entente press blames Russia
for the Rumanian defeat, while the
Russian press rebukes the entente for
a like reason, declaring at the same r
time that Rumania took up arms not
in the common interests of the entente, c
but for the satisfaction of her own s
aims. These mutual imputations are ^
undoubtedly the reason for these separate
peace rumors. Russia has fallen 1
into the net of England and is now i
unable to act by her own will. For 2
this reason peace can only come when
Russia is forced by the military situa- r
tion to conclude it. Competent opinion
uniformly aserts that this decision will v
come in 1917. s
"If our enemies hope that we shall 9
allow them to make preparations dur- e
ing the winter they are mistaken. The o
war will go on in order to hurry a
decision. I snail not propnesy as to
the consequences which will arise from a
the menace to Bessarabia and the }
Ukraine, but 1 repeat that it is only in t
consequence of a hopelessly bad mill- j
tary situation that Russia will be
forced to conclude peace, and not by f
the fact that Russia is now further t
from her goal, which is Constantinople, (
than at any time before."
Bulgarians Meet Bepulse.
PARIS, November 7.?Considerable .
activity to the east of the Lake Presba .
region, toward the western end of the
j Macedonian front, is reported by the
! war office. A Bulgarian counter attack
in the region of the town of German *
was repulsed. Elsewhere in this sector s
i there was moderate artillery activity. r
HANLY SAYS PROHIBITION J
PARTY WILL POLL 500,000 ;
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., November 7.? a
J. Frank Hanly, the prohibition party i
nominee, voted early. He said he ex- c
pected his party to poll more than 500,- r
000 votes, or more than twice as many
as four years ago. Charles W. Fair- c
banks, the republican vice presidential g
candidate, cast the three hundred and t
twenty-first ballot in his precinct. His a
only statement was that he never had i
seen a campaign in which so much
Interest had been displayed.
Italian Losses Reported Heavy. \
VIENNA, November 7.?In the coastal 1
region the attacking activity of the s
! Italians has diminished considerably, s
Their losses during the last days of t
the battle were exceedingly heavy and J
proportionate to the massed employment
of their infantry. Yesterday the
artillery activity was more lively at
Biglia, Hudilog and west of Jamiano
only. Near Biglia the advancing enemy
infantry was repulsed by, Austrian
fire.
L. & N. E. E. Places Big Order.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., November 7.?Announcement
was made today that the
Isoulsvllle and Nashville railroad has
placed orders for $10,000,000 worth of
rolling stock. It includes 6,000 gondolas,
eighteen coaches and baggage cars and
eight locomotives. The new equipment
will be manufactured in the shops of the
Louisville and Nashville, both here and
at New Decatur, Ala., and by Pittsburgh,
Pa., Mount Vernon, 111., and Jeffersonville,
lnd., concerns.
Insane, She Decapitates Niece.
STAUNTON, Va., November 7.?Miss
Myrtle Dice, a twenty.year-old patient
In the Western State Hospital for the
Insane, decapitated her eight-year-old
niece with an ax today while the child
slept. She was spending a furlough
with her slater, the child's mother, who
la a member of a prominent Augusta
county family.
K
'
V,
%
BERBF
IS TOSTART SOON
Commissioners Ooenina Bids
Today for Vast Improvement
Work
N MANY SECTIONS OF CITY
With the opening: of bids this afterloon
for construction of sewers in conlection
with the Portland street extenion
from Nichols avenue, in Anacostia,
o the steel plant, at Giesboro, the Disrict
government will begin the carryng
out of a carefully formulated prorram
for extensive sewerage improvenents
in many sections of the city.
The Anacostia improvements alone
rill call for an expenditure of about
20,000. November 21 bids will be openid
for Good Hope sewers, to cost $18,00;
continuation of 14th street trunk
ewer to cost $12,000; Pennsylvania
.venue southeast relief sewer, to cost
14,000; Mount Pleasant trunk sewer,
o cost $20,000, and new concrete invert
n old Tiber sewer, to cost $10,000.
November 28 bids also will be opened
or completion of Anacostia interceptor,
o cost $40,000, and completion of Rock
'reek interceptor, to cost $50,000.
Supt. Phillips Draws Plans.
Plans for the improvements were
Irawn under the direction of Asa E.
^hillips, superintendent of the departnent
of sewers.
The Good Hope Run trunk sewer,
>etween Railroad avenue and 18tli
treet southeast, will be an extension
>f one of the main trunk lines of Ana ostia
and will provide an outlet for
sanitary drainage connecting with the
ecently completed portion of the Anaostia
main interceptor. In addition it
vill afford necessary storm water
Irainage for this section.
The 14th street improvement will be
i continuation of the work or repiacng
the old sewer built before the days
>f the board of public works. The
lew section will be laid between K
itreet and Thomas Circle.
Pennsylvania avenue southeast relief
ewer, to be constructed between 12th
ind 14th streets, is designed to relieve
he large area from 10th to 13th streets
ind between Pennsylvania avenue and
Jncoln Park, now subject to flooding.
Trunk Sewer for Mount Pleasant.
Mount Pleasant trunk sewer, to be
aid principally in llolmead place and
3tli street, is planned as a relief
sewer, to remove a portion of the
storm drainage now overcharging the
:runk sewers as far south as Florida
Lvenue and beyond. It will afford a
THE STAR'S ELEC
The results of the elect!
to the public by The Star in
opticon on a double screen
ing, on the Pennsylvania av
of the bulletins will begin at
The Star's election bu
reports of the Associated P
graph Company, the Posta
The Star's staff and special
Extra editions of The i
portant developments warra
9 /
ANXIOUS MOMENTS.
FAIR WEATHER PREVAILS. j
I
Generally fair weather prevailed
in all parts of the
j country this morning, except
I in the extreme upper Mis )
sissippi valley, where fight
j local rains were falling, and
! in western Colorado, where
j it was snowing. It was unj
usually warm for this time of
i the year in many sections
and nowhere was the atmosphere
unpleasant.
comparatively short outlet, in place ol
the present long and complicated
drainage, for a considerable area between
Columbia road and Park road.
The Tiber sewer improvement wil!
benefit the section around the foot oi
Capitol Hill. This sewer has a flatplan
floor with practically no gradient
throughout. On account of irregularities
in original construction arid settlement
there is an almost continuous
succession of stagnant pools where the
sewage collects and decomposes,
creating insanitary conditions. With
the building of the new section of concrete
invert, 40 per cent of the entire
project will have been completed.
Five Months for AnncosHa Work.
Extension of the Anacostia main interceptor
to Benning road?work that
will require about five months?will
complete the system " providing for the
removal of all sewage entering the
Anacigtia river between Poplar point
and Benning.
The Rock creek improvement, which
also calls for about five months' work,
will complete the construction of the
main interceptor from P street to Military
road, which provides for the removal
of all sanitary drainage of Rock
('reek valley and prevention of the pollution
of Rock creek and tributary
brooks in Ro? k Creek Park.
JUST AS CONFIDENT AS EVER.
Chairman McCormick Expresses
Himself After Casting His Vote.
HARRISBURG, Pa., November 7._
Vance C. McCormick, chairman of the
democratic national committee, was th*
ninety-fourth man to vote in his precinct
here today. He went to the polls
with his brother and after voting saic
he "is just as confident as ever of a
democratic victory."
"After election," he added, "I believe
we will find a united people supporting
the President for the next four years.'
Chairman McCormick will return tc
national headquarters in New York lat?
today.
HON BULLETINS
ons today will be furnished
i bulletins thrown by sterein
front of The Star buildenue
side. The displaying
6 p.m.
Uetins will consist of the
ress, Western Union Teleil
Telegaph Company and
correspondents.
Star will be issued as imint.
.*
MhujiJvi&tk, V.i ''WtlnililllillnaiHVi i
WILL BASE ACTION
ON OFFICIAL REPORT
State Department Has Not
Determined Upon Course in
Lanao Case.
i
VESSEL CARRIED U. S. FLAG
In the absence today of. Secretary
Lansing: and other high officials of the
. State Department the course of the
' United States in dealing with the case
of the steamer Lanao, sunk by a sub- j
( j marine October 28 off the Portuguese
coast, was undetermined. The depart.
| ment was without official advices from
- consular or diplomatic officers on details
of the sinking. On the strength
. of press dispatches officials here were
i inclined to believe that there is but
! little ground for an American protest,
since the ship carried contraband, was
s warned and her crew transferred without
accident.
Discuss Question of Registry.
The question of her registry appar"
I ently is the onlv troublesome faotnr
Despite the declaration of her Ameri- i
_ can captain that she was under American
registry and flew the American 4
flag when sunk, the official view at the ,
Department of Commerce, which han- <
' dies changes of registry, was that the
, Lanao had been sold by the Findlay '
, Miller Steamship Company of Manila <
to Hans Hannevrg of Christiania, Nor- 1
way, and that, while actual transfer to
her new owners had not been made, the
. sale had gone far enough legally to ;
' take her from under the protection of
. the American flag. j
A problem of international law new '
to the present war, however, may be
raised on this point, and officials real- s
ize that with the return of Mr. Da using ;
careful consideration must be given to !
details of the sale and of all the cir- 1
cumstances surrounding the sinking.
? Department of Commerce officials relied
on the report of the consul general
at London, dated July 26. and
. stating the Lanao had been sold to
Hans Hannevrg as establishing change
' in her ownership. They pointed out.
J however, that the vessel originally
. was under Philippine registry and that
the Philippine government had juris- 1
diction over her transfer, which, when
' finally consummated, would be entered ,
l upon department records.
No Report on File. ,
Reports of such transfers are slow
. in reaching the department, and none 1
on the Lanao has come. 4
Officials believed the vessel was sold s
i with a stipulation that she should be
delivered to her owner at some port in *
I Europe and was en route for that purpose.
Actual transfer of registry in
the case of American vessels is con- j
summated by the master of the vessel :
giving up to the American consul at !
the foreign port where the transfer :
occurs of the American documents of ;
registry.
Tnnniries nrobahlv will be made of
the Philippine government as to
whether the Lanao's registry had been
changed there.
Details of the Sinking
of the Steamship Lanao
Told by Vessel's Captain
CARDIFF. November 7.?The steamship
Lanao, which was sunk by a sub- |
marine on October 28, was under Philippine
registry and was flying the American
flag when destroyed, according to
statements made here Monday night by
' Capt. Henry Mainland, the only Atner- 1
ican on board. <
Capt. Mainland, the other officers and 1
the crew of the Lanao were landed t
here by the Norwegian steamer Tronip A
(Continued on Second Page.) <
FAIR WEATHf
OUT BULK C
BEFORE 1
Political Leaders Believe
Than Usual Because
Caused By Particii
* ** T * w /< M nm/ivf
HUliHfcS WINS MKSJ
B.v the Associated Press.
NEW YORK. November 7.?I
country except in the upper Missi:
rado, accompanied by agreeable tei
liosts early today. Reports at noc
dicated that a heavy vote had bee
that the bulk of the vote was in
vote was sometihng of a surprisi
conjecture.
- New Ashford, a small Massachusetts
town, had the distinction of making the
first returns. The town has twentythree
voters this year and when the
polls closed at 10 a.m. the count showed
this result: Hughes, 16; Wilson 7. In
1912 New Ashford gave Wilson four
votes, Taft seven and Roosevelt six.
The first available election returns
in Kansas today were reported from
twenty-five precincts out of thirty-two
in the city of Topeka, the incomplete
count giving Hughes 1.389 and Wilson
974.
A double election board system used
made it possible for the returns to be
given out before noon. The count for
governor in the sixteen incomplete precincts
reported give Gov. Capper (republican)
606 and W. C. Lansdon (democrat)
206.
All of the New England states in
their early reports of the voting dwelt
on the heavy early balloting. Providence,
R. I., reported that throughout
the state it was the heaviest ever
known. New York state and other middle
Atlantic states all reported an unusually
large early vote and similar reports
cafne from the west and south,
indicating keen and even eager interest
everywhere.
Both Candidates Vote Early.
President Wilson motored from
Shadow Lawn to Princeton in the early
morning and voted ballot No. 50 shortly
after 9 o'clock. He will receive the returns
at Shadow Lawn.
Charles E. Hughes in New York voted
ballot No. 13 a few minutes after 7
o'clock this morning at a voting place
near his hotel, where he will receive
the returns tonight.
The fair weather and heavy early
voting were apparently pleasing news
to those in charge at both republican
and democratic national headquarters
here, as both sides expressed gratification
at the course of events.
Chairman William R. Willcox of the
republican committee was early at his
desk receiving telegraphic reports.
Chairman Vance C. McCormick of the
democratic committee was In Harrisburg,
Pa., to vote, but was expected to
return to his desk here later in the
day.
Political observers are in doubt as to
just when the election results will become
known. They incline to the opinion
that it will be later than in recent
vears. because of the complex situation
resulting from the great number of {
women who will vote and other i
causes. j
Willcox Believes Hughes Has Won. |
"The fight is won. We have republican
weather and its all over, but the shouting,"
said Chairman Willcox at noon after
hearing the reports of the progress of
the voting from all over the country. He
declared that the result of the returns at
New Ashford, Mass., were 'indicative of
the whole country.*
Chairman McCormick of the democratic
committee, had not at that hour returned
from Harrisburg. but the officials
in charge declared that reports received
indicated "A strong drift for Wilson."
Commenting upon the New Ashford vote,
Henry Morgenthau. chairman of the
democratic finance committee, said:
'We don't judge by pinpricks. We expect
an upheaval of the masses throughout
the country."
Mr. Morgenthau announced today that
the total expenditure of the campaign
amounted to approximately $1,650,000. |
This money, he said, has all been collected
with the exception of about: $200,000. a deficit
the committee was not worrying
about.
Tonight Mr. Morgenthau will entertain
at dinner a number of the larger contributors
to the campaign fund, together
with several members of President Wilson's
cabinet and their wives and Col.
and Mrs. E. M. House. After the dinner
200 additional guests will join the party
to receive the election returns. ,
New York's Vote Today
Dinrtoct It Uoc Puar Poet !
UiyyuOl II I I CIO L.VV/1 UUOI
NEW YORK. November 7.?The republican
and democratic state chairmen
both say that New York state is casting
Lhe heaviest vote in its history. Jheir
reports from upstate sections were that
the weather was everywhere fine and
hat, particularly in the rural sections, the
voters were early at the polls. At both
headquarters these circumstances were
pointed to as favorable to the success
:>f their respective tickets. New York
state, in the last national election cast
1.587.983 ballots for the presidential canlidates.
The belief was expressed that
these figures would be exceeded today.
Clear skies and moderate weather
promised to bring out a heavy vote in
S'ew York city today, in which at the
ast presidential election more than 600.)00
votes were cast. The city, both paries
concede, will, as usual in national
?'?ction?. fro democratic and the quesJon
at issue between thern is the size of
:ne plurality. The democrats claim a
ead of 100,000. while the republicans dedare
that the democratic plurality will
iot he more than 70.000 at the m
:r brings
)f big vote
10:30 o'clock
; Returns Will Be Later
of Complex Situation
pation of Women.
' PLACE REPORTING
"air weather, general through the
ssippi valley and in western Coloinperature,
brought out the voting
in from practically all sections in:n
cast, and some points reported
before 10 o'clock. The big early
; to politicians and caused much
| ed on by party managers to aid in
I bringing about a heavy vote.
| Approximately 2,000,000 voters have
1 registered in the state and party leadI
ers estimated that close to 1,800,000
votes would be recorded, of which num
ber between 600,000 and 700,000 would
be cast by women. The women, howj
ever, enjoy only partial suffrage, being
[ permitted to vote for President and
I VifP Pr?c!/lo?t H..* ? *
cers. except trustees of the state uni1
versity. Chicago, with its more than
800.000 voters?men and women-restarted
the voting in the state, the
noils here opening at 6 a.m. and closing
at 4 o'clock this afternoon.
By 8:30 o'clock, two and one-half
hours after the polls opened in Chicago,
it was estimated at the office of
the board of election commissioners
that one-third of the city's registered
vote was cast. The estimate was based .
on telephone messages from 550 of the
2.193 precincts in the city. In many
precincts lines had formed in the semidarkness
before the polls opened. Every
indication was for a vote unusually
heavy even for a presidential election.
Women were noted among the early
voters. The weather was cloudy.
Many Indiana Precincts;
a Third Voted by 9 A.M.
INDIANAPOLIS. ^Ind.. November 7.? j
Early reports from all parts of the
state indicated that a heavy vote if
being polled today. The polls opened
at 6 o'clock, and in many precincts one- |
third or more of the registered vote
was cast by 9 o'clock. The polls will
felose at 6 o'clock tonight and returns
where voting machines are used will be
rsmribunced soon afterward. Special pre- 1
I cautions against frauds were taken
generally over the state, both United
States and local officials having made
arrangements to watch precincts from
which advance reports of alleged proposed
irregularities had been received.
The rapidity of the balloting in many
sections of the state indicated that,
"straight" tickets were being voted.
In other places there were indications
of "scratching."
Good Weather Brings
Out Heavy Vote in Ohio
COLUMBUS. Ohio, November 7.?
Weather conditions throughout Ohio
are favorable today, and after one of
the most strenuous presidential cam- !
pin^nr* e?er wnscu in inis stare an
exceptionally heavy vote is be in ; cast.
Early voting hears out the prediction
of political leaders that the vote probably
will be the largest in the history
of the state, with estimates running as
high as a million and a quarter votes.
In addition to the national ticket, a
complete state ticket is being voted
upon. While the presidential race attracts
the most attention, the contests
between Atlee Pomerene. democrat, for
re-election as United States senator,
and Myron T. Herrick, and between
Gov. Frank B. Willis, for re-election,
and former Gov. James M. Cox are
being closely watched. Both sides continue
today to claim the election of
state and national * tickets by pluralities
ranging tip to 100.000.
At 10 o'clock a let-up in the steady
stream of votes came in Cleveland, but
election officers anticipated a big noon
rush and another late this afternoon.
The registered vote of 110,000. a record
here, was expected to be cast almost
to its full extent. The sun came out
toward noon ami all chance of rain
passed.
Alabama. ,
BIRMINGHAM* Ala.. November 7.-ZAlabama
voters today center most eI
their interest on the outcome of the
vote on an amendment to the constitution
permitting counties to vote a tax
for school purposes. With the twelve
Alabama electorial votes conceded to
President Wilson, the outcome in eastern,
northern and western states is being
watched with greater concern.
Arizona. .
PHOENIX, Ariz., November 7.?Issues
growing out or norcier conditions were
expected to be an important factor ia
the voting of Arizona citizens todayFair
weather prevailed.
Arkansas.
LITTLE 1U>> iv, Ark., November 7.?
Clear weather prevails in Arkansas today
and a full vote is expected to bo
poiled. The polls opened at s a.m. and
will close at 6:30 p.m.
California.
SAN FRANCISCO. November 7.?Cold
weather prevailed in virtually all parts
of California. Indications were the
voting would he heavy, chief interest
being shown in two prohibition Amendments,
the presidential election and a
contest for the United States senatorskip.
Colorado.
DENVER, Co!? November 7.?Colorado
voters, who came out in large numbers
early, wefe greeted by a snowstorm.
"Dry" workers were astir early to get
votes against the amendment permitting
the manufacture of beer in Colo^
rado.
Connecticut.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., November 7.?
Clear, bracing weather greeted the
electors who went to the polls in large
numbers today. Balloting proceeded"
briskly and a heavy vote was predicted.
g
Delaware.
WILMINGTON, Del., November
Chief interest in today's election -Hi
Delaware centered in ^j^e factional
:r
illiiiiilillilT'-iiir"itfh i r"' ii XA'*-, -s
3oth sides claim Brooklyn, where political
results in past years have shown more
variance than in any other borough of the
city.
Long before the polls were open in
lome sections of the city men were in
Ine waiting to cast their ballots, and
>redictions were that the greater part of
he vote would be cast before noon.
Ilinois Casting Today
Largest Vote in History ;
CHICAGO. November 7.?By far the :
argest vote in the history of Illinois 't
slections is expected to be cast today
>y reason of the fact that women for
Via flpttt t i m a vntari fn f Prooi Hont anH
fice President. Promise of fair weath-J (
sr throughout the state ^ras also count- 1
