THE BARRE BAIEY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 200.
HARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, NOVEMRER 7, 191G.
ntlCE, OXE CEXT.
A HEAVY VOTE
IS BEING CAST
IN THE NATION
Howland, Republican, and Rev. J. B.
IJ,.4,-, Cnmn nf riA Reardon, Democrat. The polls are turned
Reports from borne ol tne on the- ro)rei,Plltative lelw.tioB at a
TVnr Fno-lond Staffs Tndi- 'clo,,k 8,ul ! tllc presidential state and
.-..,. - 1 county election at 5 o'clock.
cate Record-Breaking To
tals Will Be Cast, Early
VoteBeing Unusually
Large
HALF OF BAY STATE
VOTE WAS IN AT NOON
HUGHES LED IN TOPEKA.
Thirty-Two Precincts Gave Him 661, to
511 for Wilson.
Topeka, Kan., Xov. 7. Thirty-two pre
cincts of this citj' gave Hughes (ilil and
Wilson 511 votes.
CAMPAIGN MANAGERS
PLEASED WITH VOTE
In New Hampshire Cities,
Lines of Voters Were
Waiting When the Polling
Places Opened Chairman
S. C. Wilson in Vermont
Claimed 17,000 Plurality
for Hughes
New York, Nov. 7. Fair weather which
was general throughout the country ex
cept in the Mississippi valley and in
western Colorado, accompanied by agree
able temperature, brought out the voting
hosts early to-day. Reports at noon for
virtually all sections indicated that a
heavy vote had been cast and some points
reported the bulk of the vote in before 10
this morning. The early vote was some
thing of a surprise to politicians and
caused much conjecture.
New Ashford, Mass., was the first in
the country to report.
"The fight is won. We have Republi
can weather and it is all over but the j
shouting," said Chairman Willcox gf the
national committee at noon. He declared
that the result of the returns from New
Ashford was indicative of the whole
country.
Chairman McCormick of the Democrat
ic' committee had gone to Harrisburg to
vote. Henry Morgenthau, the chairman
of the finance committee, in commenting
on the New Ashford vote, said: "We
don't judge by pin pricks. We expect
an upheaval of the masses throughout the
country."
Boston, Xov. 7. Reports from various
sections of New England to-day indi
cated that a record-breaking vote was
being cast. In Massachusetts the early
vote, was unusually heavy. In New
Hampshire cities large crowds were wait
ing when the polls were opened at 9
o'clock and the voters continued to file
through the booths in a steady Btream
during the forenoon.
Portland reported that indication that
Hie, vote in Maine would nearly equal
the record vote of the state election in
September. Interest in the popular vote
for United States senator was one of
the features which brought out a big
vote in Rhode Island.
Stanley C. Wilson of the Republican
state committee, said that the reports of
heavy voting in Vermont during the
forenoon indicated that Hughes' plurali
ty in that state would exceed 17,000.
City elections in some parts of Connec
ticut added to the interest in that state.
Both the Republican and the Democratic
Headquarters Satisfied with the
Very Large Participation.
New York, Nov. 7. Gratification was
expressed to-day at both the Republican
and the Democratic headquarters at the
fair weather lor the election, and the
weather was expected to bring out a
great number of voters. The early re
ports from all sections of the country in
dicated an unusually large early vote."
Light Voting in St. Albans.
St. Albans, Nov. 7. Early voting was
light in St. Albans, there having been
only 242 votes cast up to 10 o'clock.
35 AUTOS BURNED
TWO HITS ON
DREADNOUGHTS
British Admiralty Claims a
Submarine Sent Tor
pedoes Home
RESULT OF ATTACK
' IS NOT KNOWN
Vessels Torpedoed Are Said
to Have Been of the
Kaiser Class
But French infantry finally rushed the
place and held it with slight losses. The
battle continued into the night.
OVER 600 PRISONERS.
Taken By French in Operations North of
St. Pierre Vaast Wood.
Paris Xov. 7 The French official state
ment last night was as follows:
"North of the Soinme we continued
our progress during the day in the north
ern part of St. Pierre Vaast Wood. We
have taken In this section since yester
day over 000 prisoners.
"On the Verdun sector there has been
only an artillery struggle which contin
ued in the LVniaumont-Vaux-Danilop re
gion.
"In the osgea a 'sudden attack of one
of our smalLr-osts in the Fecht valley
failed."
BRITISH ADMIRALTY DENIES
When Large Garage at Newport, R. I,
Was Destroyed.
Newport, R. I., Xov. 7. Fire starting
in the battery room of a large garage
swept through that building and the Ho
tel I)insdale, adjoining, causing a damage
of between $40,000 and $"0,0(hj yesterday.
About 30 guests in the hotel were forced
to flee for their lives, the explosion of
gasoline tanks spreading the flames rap
idly. Thirty-live autos were burned.
London, Nov., 7 The claim that two
dreadnoughts were hit by a British sub
marine which yesterday reported launch
ing a torpedo at and striking a German
dreadnought in the North sea, was con
tained In a further report received from
the commanding officer of the submarine,
was officially announced to-day. The two
dreadnoughts claimed to have been
struck were battleships of the Kaiser
class.
That Orders Were Given Not to Rescue
German Submarine Survivors.
London, Nov. 7. The admiralty last
night in a published communication
again denied that it ever issued orders
that survivors of German submarines
need not be rescued. The communica
tion states that the German press "is
trying to make capital out of what they
describe as a second Baralong case, pos
sibly in order to incite American opin
ion against Great Britain or as a pretext
for an unrestrained submarine cam
paign."
CANDIDATES
VOTED EARLY
Hughes Cast His Ballot in a
Small Laundry in
New York
WILSON ID DUTY
IN ENGINE HOUSE
Backfiring of an Automobile
Caused Excitement as
Hughes Emerged
TEUTONS FORCED TO RETREAT.
BERLIN ADMITS LOSS
IN TRANSYLVANIA
HUGHES CARRIED
NEW ASHFORD, MASS.
Smallest Town in Massachusetts Gave
Him 16 Votes, to Seven for Wilson
Latter Gained Three Over 1912
Vote and Hughes Had Three
More Than Combined Taft
and Roosevelt Vote.
Pitt afield, Mass,. Xov. 7. New Ash
ford, the smallest town in the state, had
the distinction of being the "first to make
election returns to-day. The polls closed
at 10 a. m., and the count showed that
Hughes had 16 and Wilson Beven. In
1912 New Ashford gave Wilson four,
Taft seven and Roosevelt six.
Exploration in Yukon-Koyukuk Region,
Alaska.
That part of central Alaska lying be
tween the lower Koyukuk river and the
Yukon was until recently but little
known. In 1913 it was explored by H.
M. Eakin, and his results are presented
in a report entitled "The Yukon-Kiiyii-kuk
region," recently issued by the Unit
ed States geological survey, department
of the interior, as bulletin 631. The re
gion is essentially a rolling upland above
which rise some higher mountain masses
reaching altitudes of 5,000 to 6,000 feet.
This upland is broken by broad valleys
and lowlands. The mountain slopes are
clothed with spruce trees' up to altitudes
of 2,000 feet. Spruce and birch also
cover the lowlands. Above timber line
the vegetation is ehicfly moss. The tim
bered areas, notably in the lowlands
are broken by meadows covered with a
luxuriant growth of grass. Moose, eari-
bou, and bear still roam over much of
this region, which is seldom visited bv
white men. No important mineral re
sources have been found in the Yukon
Koyukuk region, but many of the stream
gravels carry some fine colors of gold.
Ihis gold seems to have been derived
from the contact ones of granitic in
trusive rocks, which are abundant in
the region. That some of these deposits
are ot commercial importance is shown
by the fact that the placers of the In
dian river district, which lie in the Yu
kon-Koyukuk region, have for several
years been mined on a small scale. It
is not improbable that other commercial
placers may be found in the region, but
the prospecting thus far done does not
indicate the presence of any very rich
deposits.
Russians Forced Back the Austro-German
Troops in Tulghes Region But Lost
i Near Bodsea Pass.
Berlin, via wireless, Nov. 7. On the
Somme front yestenlay the British made
an attack near Kaueourt I Abbaye, but
were immediately beaten back, the war
office announces.
On the Transylvanian front, in the re
gion of Tulghes, the Russians yesterday
forced back the Austro-Gennan troops.
The statement says the Teutonic forces
gained ground west of Bodsea pass.
The capture of a Russian bridgehead
on the Stukhod is reported by the war
office. On the northern part of the front
between Ivink and Lake I.'aroez, 'the
Russian artillery is displaying marked
activity.
BRITISH MADE GAIN
DURING THE NIGHT
SPLENDID WEATHER
HELPED VT. VOTE
Local Contests for Representative Served
to Bring Out Voters, There Being
Little Contest Otherwise.
Perfect fall weather served to bring
out a large number of voters in ermont
to-day for the national, state, county
and town representative election, and the
indications early this afternoon were
that a large vote would be polled. Al
though there was little pre-election ac
tivity on the presidential issue and prac
tically none on the state election, the
contests over town representatives in the
24ft towns, together with some scattered
conte-ts over county offices, were incen
tive for the voters to go to the polls.
In Barre there was a large early hour
vote following the opening of the polls
at 6 o'clock, mainly because of the con
test for representative between Frank G. ,
Caring for Camps.
In closing summer camps for the Bea
son, most people arc careless as to san
itation and safety, and sometimes have
a rude awakening when their property
is rifled or when they lind an unexpect'
ed hatch of vermin next warm weather
Good locks on the doors and sulid
shutters, fastened on the inside, are
about the only things that will keep out
marauders, and a thorough cleaning up
of the grounds, utensils and food recep
tacles, done this fall, will make things
sweeter and cleaner in the spring.
Mosquitoes and flies breed in standing
water, decaying waste and food refuse
A rake, a spade and a little gravel will
soon make the grounds sterile, so far as
these vermin are concerned, and a care
ful cleansing of dishes, interiors and gar
bage pails or barrels will go far toward
making the camp healthy next year.
All food liable to decay should be
thrown away or saved, water pails emp
tied pots and kettles revsered and things
generally made snug for winter. Dis
connecting water supply, draining sinks
or boilers, or similar precautions, are ob
viously, important.
One of the chief charms of a Vermont
summer is the summer camp. See that
it is cared for. Rutland Herald.
He Lived There, AU Right.
An anxious father got wind of the ru
mor that his son was leading rather a
convivial life at college. But the son
strenuously denied the charge in letters
to his father. Still unsatisfied, the fa
ther made an unexpected visit to his
son's lodging-place, and giving the bell a
manly pull was met bv a grim-faced
landlady.
"Does Mr. James Smith live here!'
asked the father.
"He does," replied the landlady. "Bring
him right in."
Barber (to sleepy customer I can't
shave you, sir, unless you hold up your
head.
S. C. All right, give me a hair out
then. Columbia Jester.
War Office Reports Advance in the Neigh
borhood of Butte de Warlen
court. London, Xov. 7. Gains by the British
troops in the neighborhood of Butte do
Warlencourt on the Somme front during
operations last night were announced to
day by the war office.
Rumanians, Aided by Russians, Forced
Them Back.
London, Xov. 7. After a week or more
of doubt concerning the operations in the
Doburdja region of Rumania, where the
forces of the Teutonic; allies had been
marching almost unimpeded northward
across the province from the Black sea to
the Danube, eoraei the report that the
Rumanians have now taken the offen
sive, probably aided by Russians, and
compelled the Teutonio allies to retreat
at several points.
On the Transylvanian front, however,
the Rumanians in the Jiul valley who for
some time had Wen holding the upper
hand over hte Anstro-Germans, forcing
them to give ground, have now been
stopped, the Teutons having brought up
reinforcements. In the Predeal pass re
gion, after heavy fighting the Rumanians
also have met with a reverse, being
compelled to retreat after long and stub
born battles.
FIRST ALIEN LAND "
TO SUE STATE IN
SUPREME COURT
Xew York, Xov. 7 Charles E. Hughes
cast his vote soon after 7 o clock this
morning in a small laundry on Eighth
avenue, almost directly back of his ho
tel. His ballot was number 13, which he
declared was his lucky number; and "I
was born on fnday, too, he added.
As Hughes left the polling place the
onlookers were startled bv the noise of
a taxicab back-firing. Half a dozen po
licemen jumped in the direction of the
disturbance but stopped when Hughes
smilingly pointed to the heavy smoke
Hanging behind the stalled automobile.
Princeton, X. J., Xov. 7. President
Wilson cast his ballot in an engine house
here shortly after 9 o'clock. He motored
over from Shadow Lawn, which he left
after 7 o'clock.
Cuba
SUBMARINE AND
DESTROYER LOST
IN NIGHT DUEL
Italy Lost the Destroyer and Austria the
Submarine Most of the Crew of
the Destroyer Were Saved.
Rome, Monday, via Paris, Tuesday,
Xov. 7 An Austrian submarine and Ital
ian destroyer were sunk in a duel on
the night of Oct. lti according to an ofli-
cial statement issued by the admiralty
to-day. The submarine had attacked a
transport, which escaped. A majority
of the crew oi the destroyer was saved
and two ofliccrs and 11 men of the sub
marine were made prisoners. The trans
Asks Leave to File a Petition
Against State of North
Carolina.
Washington, Xov. 7. In what was said
to be the tirst suit ever Wxun in the su
preme court by a foreign nation against
one of the United States, attorneys for
Culm yesterday asked the supreme court
for leave to tile an original petition
against the state of Xorth Carolina to
secure payment ot bonds valued at $2,
186,000 subscribed by Xorth Carolina to
aid railroad construction in that state
nearly oO years ago. Payment, it was
alleged, has been refused.
CANDIDATE A SUICIDE.
Thereby Causing Complication in Mis
souri Presidential Election.
St. Louis, Mo., Xov. 7 Frank II. Ruhr,
Republican candidate for presidential
elector, from-lhe tenth Missouri district,
committed suicide yesterday, thereby
leaving a vacancy on the Republican
ballot. The Republican state committee
met and nominated Henry Kersting to
fill the vacancy. The nomination of
Kersting was too late to get on the offi
cial ballot and Republican voters will be
urged to write in the name.
The death of Ruhr and the eleventh
hour nomination of Kersting it is
thought may result in a division of the
Republican vote for elector from the
tenth district and even if Hughes carries
port was engaged in carrying troops andtll., ,,tate- U is possible that a Democrat
was being convoyed by the destroyer.
On the night ot Nov. 3, the statement
says, several Italian destroyers sank a
large Austrian steamer anchored at Du
razzo under shelter of defenses and a
mine field. Enemy destrovers came out
and were attacked by the Italian war
ships and forced to retreat.
On Nov. 5, three enemy destrovers ap
peared at dawn before Santa Pidio and
began to bombard that part of the coast,
although no military works are there.
An Italian armored train rushed up, en
gaged and drove off the enemy. Two of
the destroyers were hit and one was
seen with a heavy list being assisted by
others.
"The enemy fire," the statement says,
was ineffective, one railroad man being
slightly wounded and small damage was
done to private property."
will be elected in that district. In that
event Missouri would cast 17 votes for
Hughes and one for Wilson.
CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTER.
Wu Tung Fang's Appointment Approved
By Parliament.
Pekin, Xov. 7. Wu Tung Fang has
been appointed minister of foreign af
fairs. His appointment was approved to
day by practically the unanimous vote of
Parliament.
NO AEROPLANES PRESENT
A Little Social Affair.
A woman, dirty and disheveled, went
into a public dispensarv with her right
arm bruised and bleeding. As the sur
geon applied the necessary remedies he
asked: "Dog bite you?" .
"Xo. sorr," the patient replied, "an
other loidy."
Business Machinery.
An interesting exposition now being
held in Xew York k devoted entirely to
devices to aid business men, and their
variety is so great that it may almost
lie a matter for wonder that no machine
has yet been constructed to do the. work
of the business man himself. It has been
an astonishing, yet after all, a natural
enough development, this reaction of the
factory upon the office. Many men still
in business can remember when a steel
pen, a Spencerian hand, and a head for
fractions were an adequate equipment.
Shorthand was saved for reporting
speeches, which now seldom need to be
reported because they are given to the
press in advance. The typewriter made
its way with difficulty, and the laborious
system of keeping book wag so well es
tablished that even small innovations
meant to save time were viewed with
disfavor. . '
When go much ingenuity was going
into the invention of new machinery,
however, it was impossible for the counting-room,
to escape infection, and when
once the crust of commercial conserva
tism had been broken through, the evo
lution became extraordinarily rapid. 1
had never been realized how much of the
routine of business is purely mechanical.
lo record and reproduce words and fig
ures, to add or subtract, to put things
where they can be found, these are the
essential things and they all give great
scope to invention. In the old days
years of patient practice went to the
acquirement of skill in doing what can
be better done by machinery. Skill with
the typewriter has become more impor
tant than penmanship, and for all we
know the typewriter itself may yet be
made automatic. The calculating ma
chine computes faster than the cleverest
accountant, and makes no mistakes. By
standardized methods the work of filing
has been reduced to a minimu, and the
efficiency of the bookkeeper has been
greatlv increased. That progress has
reached a limit is not to be supposed
but the transformation of recent years,
as illustrated by the exposition in prog
ress this week in Xew York, is one vet
erans in business can best appreciate.
In the main, the change has been an
unqualified improvement. If there is an
obverse to the medal it lies in the tend
ency inherent in highly developed ma
chinery to run away with its inventors
An excess of office eystem exaggerates
the tendency toward standardization
which is both the strength and the defect
of American business. Foreign custom
ers complain that they do not get the
personal attention which they receive
from Kuropean houses. In so far as this
criticism is justified it calls notice to a
real evil. When invention substitutes
machinery for brains it is creating an
area of "bone-headedness"; the remedy
is to put what is saved in mechanical
operations back into the business in the
form of active intelligence, available in
every department and from top to bot
tom." In a live business there should be
no ossified spots. -Springfield (Mass.)
Republican.
COLLEGE BOYS SAVED HOUSE.
But Barn of William Halnon in Middle
bury Was Burned.
Middlebury, Xov. 7. An alarm was
rung in about 2:30 o'clock Monday aft
ernoon for a fire in a barn on Shannon
street belonging to William Halnon, 40
feet west of his residence. Both hose
companies got their earts to the scene,
doubled up their hose to a hydrant on
College street, ami the fire was sub-
lued within a half hour. The building,
though, was practically gutted. The
house, nearby, was in great danger and
very likely would have caught except
for the efforts of a large body of college
students, who were soon on hand with
the college chemical engine. Mr. HulJ
non was away from homo and Mrs. Hal
non knew nothing about the lire until
Henry Dumas, a neighbor on College
street, told her, and got the horse out
of the barn. There was a small ouanti
ty of hay in the barn and that, with
some harnesses and farming tools, was
lost. The total loss is about $000 ami it
is understood tluit it is partially covered
by insurance.
REFUSE TO SELL
AT OLD ' -RICE
ASKS RECEIVERSHIP.
Following a Petition for Accounting of
J. H. Guild Company.
Rutland, Xov. 7. There was a hearing
before councillor Frank L. Fish of Ver-
gennes at the county court house venter-
lay in the case brought by f.lla I . Koli-
erts, Cornelius M. Sheldon, trustees ot
the Methodist Episcopal church of Ru
pert against Charlotte M. Guild and
Charlotte M. Guild, guardian of Joseph
and Stewart Guild, also of Rupert.
The case was originally brought by
the plaintiff in an attempt to secure an
accounting of the defendant, who has
lieen conducting the business of the J.
H. Guild company since the death of
Dr. Guild. The concern manufactures
atent medicines. The plaintiff at the
earing yesterday urged the appointment
of a receiver and Judge Fish intimated
that such might be the proceedings, al
though he took the matter under advisement.
MAKES ANOTHER GIFT.
F. Fassett of Enosburg Falls Sets
Aside $1,000 as Trust Fund.
Enosburg Falls. Xov. 1. B. F. Fas-
sett, an old resident and member of St.
Matthew's Episcopal church, who a few
'ears ago gave $2,000 for building a
parish house, recently placed the sum of
$1,000 in trust with the Vermont dio-
ese, to be known as the B. F. Fassett
fund and the income to be devoted to
paving the insurance on and keeping up
the parish house property.
Barre Milk Pre cers to Ask
50 Cents r an from
Re ers
ABOUT 4,000 QUARTS
DELIVERED DAILY
Barre Milk Producers' Asso
ciation Was Reorgan
ized Last Night
ANCIENT CHURCH BURNED.
When Germans and French Locked in
Deadly Battle.
With the French Armv on the Somme
front, Xov. 5, via Chantillv (From a
staff correspondent of the Associated
Press) The battle to-day in the district
between Saillisel and St. Pierre wood had one on us; he had a Wife without a
The question now comes up, my friends,
Before our jesting board,
Which side's ahead in total jokes,
Adam, Eve or Fold?
Harvard Lampoon.
Maybe Adam hadn't much on, but he
Quite in Season.
File (plaintively) Wby do yon keep
after me so much?
11 (fiercely) What's Your name?
Kile (weakly) Mav.
II I thought so. I have to follow
you. I'm August. Williams Purple Cow. most difficult p1"0010111 for the French.
was fought without the assistance of
aeroplanes. The wind blowing 80 miles
an hour prevented the planes from
ascending and consequently theartillery
nre irom erman batteries as well a
from the French and British was uncon
trolled aerially. Every inch of the bat
tleground was a danger spot and the
correspondent of the Associated Press
and other correspondents were compelled
to take shelter in a dugout.
When the French infantry attacked a
powerfully defended series of trenches
with trench mortars and grenades they
found a strong garrison, which in one
portion surrendered in a body with their
officers, more than fl"0 running at a rac
ing pai-e into the French lines and for
two miles and a half to the rear, accom
panied by only half a dozen French
guard.
St. ricrre Vaast wood is more than
two kilometers square, with many posi
tions enfilading each other, and proved a
mother-in-law. California Pelican.
A small child, one evening, in saying
his prayers to his mother began some
thing like this:
"Sow I lay me down to sleep, I pray
the Iord my soul to keep hesitatingly.
Mother (encouragingly) "If"
Small Boy "He hollers, let him go;
eenv, meenv, miny, mo. Wisconsin
Awl. -
Frosh How's everything?
Junior Oh, she's all right !-Dial.
Hhio Sim
The Line He Carried.
Bishop. Watterson, of Nebraska, was
never at a loss lor an answer io im-
pertinent questions. One day he met a
man on the train who mistook him for
a travgeling salesman, and started in to
quiz the bishop.
"IX) you represent a big house?" he be
gan as an opener.
"The very biggest on earth," replied
the bishop with a twinkle in his eye.
"What's the name of the firm!1' con
tinued the questioner.
"liord and Church," smiled the bishop
pleasantly.
"Hum! 'Lord and Church!" Xever heard
f it. iot any branch houses any
where?" "Oh. yes, indeed; branch houses all
over the world."
"Hum! That's queer! Never heard of
them. Is it boots or shoes?"
"Neither."
"Oh, I see; dry goods, I suppose."
"Well, ves; they do call my sermons
that sometimes."
Loss in Manchester, N. H., To-day Was
$20,000.
Manchester, X. H., Xov. 7. The South
Main street Congregational church, the
oldest iir this section of the state, was
destroyed by a fire of undetermined or
igin to-day, with a log of $20,MM). - The
church was erected in 1820.
MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE.
Hepburn Hall, Men's New Dormitory is
Proving Very Popular.
Hepburn hall, the large new dormitory
for men, is proving very popular. Every
room is taken and there is a waiting
list. It is quite an achievement for a
college of 370 students to add a residence
for 100 to its equipment and till it the
first year. The result is due partly to
the attractiveness of the building with
its large, well-lighted studies and bed
rooms ami bath for each two men. An
enclosed loggia connects with a cosy din
ing room, and over this is one of the
most unique rooms ever provided for an
American college. It is a large social
hall and on the walls the donor has
placed about 2o trophies of his hunting
expeditions in Africa and the Rocky
mountains. There are heads of moose,
elk, caribou, mountain sheep, sevoral
species of deer, and a large Alaskan
bear, and of African animals a rhinocer
os, water buffalo, eland, and several an
telopes and gazelles. ,
An experiment was tried in placing
a lady in charge of Hepburn hall. She
makes her home in the building and has)
a staff of janitresses who make the beds
and clean the entire building daily. The
bovs like the plan and it results in a
college home both cleaner and quieter
than the ordinary dormitory.
For twelve years Middlebury has made
an annual gain in attendance. The stu
dents now number 370, which is 27 more
than last vear. The freshmen class is
132, the largest the college has ever
had. Additions to the upper classes make
the total number of sew students 13S.
There are 201 men in college and HiO
women. This is the first year the num
ber of men has reached 200. The num
ber of Vermont students is 172. 14 more
than ever before. The numbers from
other states are: Massachusetts t3,
Xew York 50, Connecticut 28, New Jer
sey 21. Xew Hampshire 10, Maine 5,
'ennsvlvama 4. Rhode Island 2, Illinois
Colorado 1, Ohio, 1
Following a conference of a few of the
milk producers in and around Barre a
meeting of the Barre Milk Producers' a-
sociation was called and held last night
at the South Barre grange hall. Over 40
of the 00 milk producers were in attend
ance. J hey met to discuss and consider
the cost of producing milk and the price
obtained for it. The meeting was called
to order v the former president, C. H.
Gordon, and the meeting was immediate
ly open for discussion. Xearly everyone
present had eome opinions and sugges
tions to offer.
All were nonvinced that it was impos
sible to continue producing milk at the
present price of four and one-half cents
a quart without actual money loss. This
was brought about by the high prices for
cows, feed and labor. Many of the men
present had individual circumstances to
relate as to the cost of producing milk.
figures from other states were quoted.
Prof. Lindsey of the Massachusetts sta
tion reports that it costs 4.31 cents per
quart to produce milk in Xew England,
or $1.04 per 100 pounds. Health author
ities are demanding better dairy methods
and this, with the increased cost of labor,
grain and tools, makes it necessary to
raise the price of milk in order to allow
the farmer a living. It was stated that
it costs 5.38 cents a quart to produce
milk in Massachusetts, 4.78 cents in Con
necticut and 4.31 cents in Xew York.
These figures and the related experiences
of those present led to considering the
problem of how to get more for the milk.
At present butter fat prices were said
to be not in keeping with the cost of pro
duction. Xeither is the price asked for
milk in Barre in keeping with the cost
of production or the price obtained for
butter fat. In view of these considera
tions it was concluded to reorganize the
Bnrre Milk Producers' association and
forthwith M. L. Towne was elected presi
dent and A. I Smith secretary.
It was then voted to elect a committee
of three to look more closely into the
possibilities of mnning a milk ear
through Harre in order that the farmers
here can have the advantage of offering
milk to the Hood company at their pres
ent scale of prices, which is practically
five cents a quart delivred at the local
railroad station. According to Mr. Hood's
contracts, this price is good until the last
of April. This committee will report
within a day or two on this possibility.
This, it was considered, would give the
farmers a better outlet for their produc
tion than they have at present either in
the sale of butter fat or the sale of milk
at four and one-half cents.
It was next voted to establish the
price of milk sold to the local retailers
at the same as the Boston prices, namely,
.50 cents a can delivered to the local re
tailers. The farmers present stood as a
unit on this question, every milk produc
er present being firmly convinced that
by co-.operation and unity of ideas they
can obtain a justifiable price for their
milk. Every milk producer present was
enthusiastic over the proposition and all
agreed to refuse to sell milk to local re
tailers for less than .r0 cents a can begin
ning Xov. In, 1P1B. until May 1, 1017.
The spirit of co-operation at the meeting
was exemplified by the fact that thoso
who are not at present selling to the re
tailers stood to a man in signing up with
those whose milk is now sold to local re
tailers and who are demanding the rise
from four and one-half to five cents.
About 4.000 quarts of milk are delivered
daily in the city of Barre. The sentiment
of the meeting was to do as much as
possible to protect the retailers by re
fraining from starting individual milk
routes at cut prices.
AUT0IST FINED $100.
Victor Stacy Pleaded Guilty to Operat
ing Car When Intoxicated.
The heaviest fine yet to lie imposed in
Magistrate H. W. Scott's court for a vio
lation of the automobile laws was meted
out Monday afternoon when Victor Stacy
The above docs i paid a tine of $100 ami costs of $ft, hav-
Did As She was Told,
remember. Mary," the
Now remember. Mary, the teacher
said just before the school exercises, "if
vmi forget some of the words when you
iare singing your song don't stop. Keep
H. For the love of Mike, whv are vou i right on. Say tum-tumtummy-tum, or
walking on those tacks? ' I something like that, and the words w ill
Him I m testing mv new hole proof come iwkk io you ana nooouy win Know
lite umeremt. iw uou i. nuri
sock.- Ncbra-k Awgwan.
Landladv Young man. did vou expec
torate in the waste basket?
lt20 Roomer Xo, madam, 1 missed it!
On exhibition day little Mary electri
fied her audience with
" and she wear a wreath of roses
Around her Tummy-tum-tum."
not include summer session attendance.
'very student at Middlebury is a candi-
atc for a degree; there are no spe-
lals.
The college is greatly enjoying the new
,1,., ..,.! i, ;(t - Mu.l Tho
i ia i ii .-Kill.., i . .......... ...... . r
fine pipe i rean and the vested choir of 24; a plea of not guilty and lurnisnen du oi
voices under the leadership of rrotes-
inir reversed his plea of not cuilty to a
charge of operating a car while intoxicat
ed. At a preliminary arraignment in tho
morning, the respondent, who was arrest
ed Saturday night on a complaint made
to Grand Juror William lsliart, entered
sor Hathaway, furnish excellent music.
Visitnrs are nearly always present at the
daily service, conducted by President
Thomas, who also usually preaches at
the Sunday vesper service.
A Revelation to the Cook.
A happily married woman, who had en
joyed 33 years of wedlock, and who was
the grandmother of four beautiful little
children, had an amusing old colored
woman for a cook.
One day when a box of especially beau
tiful flowers was left for the niistrefs.
the cook happened to be present, and she
said: "Vo husband send vou all the
$200 tor his appearance in the afternoon.
Arrangements were being made tor a
jury trial in the council chamber to-day
when the respondent, through his attor
ney. J. Ward Carver, entered a plea of
guilt v.
The ease against Stacy was the out
growth of an accident on Berlin street
Saturday night when -Mr. and Mrs. John
Shepard of eat bill sustained injuries in
being thrown from their carriage, the ve
hicle having figured in a rear end col
lision with the respondent's auto.
PREDICT LORD'S ELECTION.
pretty flowers you gits. Missy?''
( ertainlv. mv husband.
proiiilly answered the lady.
"Glory! exclaimed the cook
tenlv am holdin' out well."
Mammy,'
, "he
The Times will issue an election
extra Wednesday morning, giving
the returns on the national and
state election.
!As Representative in Montpelier Voting
Was Heavy.
t 11 o'clock n rlv six hundred voter
!or practically a third ot the total regis
tration had appeared at the pedis and
-in uredicted that the vote in Mont-
pel ier would lie exce d iona fly large. The
Republican headquarters was established
in the bhxk directly opposite the city
hall. Several wagers were made early
to-day t'Ht William A. Lord, Republi
can candidal', would win on the first
4 ballot the odice of city representative.
;
I
