1'
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Local snows to-day, followed by fair;
slightly colder; to-morrow fair.
Highest temperature ye-terda, 34: lowest, 97.
Detailed weather, mall and inirlno report on par 13.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
fIX7 flTMf I reaier New York. I Klwwhore
UN El KjEjN 1 it City and Newark, t TWO t'KNT.a,
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 105.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1916. Copurlght, 1916, by the Sun Printing and PublUhlng Attoctatlon.
HEARCARRANZA
HAS NOT SIGNED
Mexican Envoys Hastily Con
fer Here With rani, Who
Brings Protocol.
WILL GIVE OUT NOTHING
Reports Say First Chief Wants
a Neutral Strip on
Border.
Mexican metnbera of the International
commission which drew up a proposed
form of agreement between this nation
and theirs gathered at the Motel
last night to hear Carranxa'
the draft.
AIOCT.O I .1111, WUU lUUft K1U UUVUIlinil 1
r .. i-mf
IV uuikluiu, ikiv i i.v v.iiv.
. .. . . . .. .. ...
slunieo IE, rciurneu ibsi nignt. nenor
Arrednndo. Mexican Ambassador desst-
ntte, hurrlcl here from Washington to
meet him, the other commissioners and I
Juan T. Hums, Carranxa s Consul-Gen-
tral In New York.
None of tho conferees would make any
statement as to what attitude the First
Chief had taken toward the protocol
proposed. They announced only that n
tntement would be forthcoming at noon
to-day. The opinion was prevalent, how
ever, that Senor Panl'H report had pro
duced a discouraging effect on the con
ferees. One authority had It flatly that Car
ranxa has refused to sign the agreement
which He nor rani recommended, and acnt
Instead another protocol of far different
terms which he has offered to sign as
a substitute.
One of the chief features of this sub
stitute protocol. It la understood. Is the
provision ffjr the establishment of a neu
tral belt on cither tilde of the Mexican
border. This plan was urged by the
Mexican delegates at the Atlantic City
meeting and was rejected In toto by the
American commissioners. t'nder Its
terms Mexican troops would be allowed
to cross Into the neutral American atrip
of land north of the border In pursuit
f bandits, or even Americans charged
with Illegal operations on Mexican noil.
Neither Mexican nor American com
missioners would talk regarding this fea
ture of Carranxu'a reported substitute.
The Mexican commissioners wilt meet
In Philadelphia on Monday. The feel
ing last night was that this will prob
ably be the last conference between the
two nations and that after It adjourns
the commission will break up with af
fairs In the same condition as when ne
gotiations were first begun.
500 YTT.T.TSTAB ARE NABBED.
ea. Mara; aim Adopts Black Flagr
With Skat! and Crosabonea.
E Paso, Tex., Dec. 13. Gen. Fran
Cisco Murgula, the new commander of
operations against Villa, Is arresting all
persons suupected of having been In
communication with rebel troops, S00 In
Chihuahua city alone having been de
tained. Gen. Murgula has adopted as his di
vision atandard, according to an au
thoritative source, the black flag with
skull and crossbones. It Is meant to-fce
a warning to all followers of Villa, II
was explained.
Villa announced In Chihuahua city he
Intended to divide his men Into groups
, of tnenty-tlve each and distribute them
along the American border and In the
Interior of the United States to loot and
burn property under his Instructions, a
letter received from a prominent Chi
huahua city business man and for
warded to Washington to-day stated.
FIRST ARTICLE ADOPTED.
I
t.very I
Mnlcna Constitution Saa
Cltltrn Sball Knjoy Its Guarantee
rji.'Eni:T.Mio, Mexico, Dec. 13. The
ftr article In Mexico's new Constltu
tlon was adopted by the constitutional
omcntlon to-day. The article provides
that every citizen shall enjoy the guar
.tut.'cs lilch the Constitution stipulates',
and that they may not be restricted nor
suspended except as provided for in the
Constitution. An effort to amend the
Hide to fpcclfy more clearly that no
tltlzen could renounce his rights failed
of adoption.
An article prohibiting slavery was
slsn adopted.
Miss Hermlla Galindo has presented
for tho consideration of the convention
a plan for woman suffrage. '
PRESIDENT'S FLAG NOW FLIES.
standard Is liaised Over White
House for First Time,
Washington, Dec. 13. Hereafter the
President's Mag wll fly from the staff
at the White House so long as he Is
under Its roof and will be lowered when
he Is absent. The design on the flag,
which was run up to-day for the first
time, consists of the seal of the United
States, an eagle with outstretched wings
on a blue flell, surrounded by the thir
teen stars representing the original Colo
nies. It has been the custom up to this time
to indicate tho President's presence In
Washington by the rational colors.
These were lowered whenever he de
parted. Hereafter the national flag will
not be lowered, but only the President's
flag.
FARM FOB WOKEN PRISONERS.
Comililsaloner Lewis Takes a. Step
to Get It.
In the hope of getting money with
which to develop a farm for women
prisoners under sentence, Hurdette Q,
I-erls, Commissioner of Correction, has
filed with the corporate stock budget
committee an application to have 1170,
000 which has been appropriated for a
women's court and house of detention
transferred to a new fund for the farm.
Mr. Lewis says that the farm and the
detention house are highly desirable, but
If under the urge of economy the city
can have only one, the farm Is much
preferable.
II. A. Ayera Icld.
-ICRLtNOTON. Vt.. DeC. .13. II. A
Avers of Nw York, who Is said to have
been known formerly as a builder of
freight steamships, committed suicide
hero to-day by shooting. For the last
six months he had made his home In
this city on account of failing health.
He was SS years old.
A I KEXyUl'-TA ASHBVILXB.
miui Xptciai" dsJ'r tiS. r. via
SOUTH
M'TIIItRX HAII.W AT. WIWIMIH OI.
is i.r strvles, M. V. OSlsi, m IMM Are.
HIS IKI
aV.
AUSTRIAN PREMIER
AND MINISTERS QUIT
Cabinet Formed After Assas
sination of Stucrgkh Hcsigns
New Premier Picked.
IjOKdon, Dec. 11. Tno Austrian Min
istry has resinned. Thin announcement
la made In a Heuttr despatch from Am
sterdam. Tho Emperor has accepted the reslg
nation of the Ministry and hag entrusted
Alexander Spltxmueller with the forma-
Hon of a new Cabinet. i
llerr Kpltimueller la a former Minis-,
ter of Commerce and a former director
of tho Krcdlt Anstalt.
The Austrian Ministry had been In
office little over a month. Dr. von Kocr
ber was appointed 1'remler to succeed
the assassinated Count Hlucrgkh on Oc
tober !". On November 1 It was an
nounced that he had formed a new Min
istry. J luonnillli .ilt.ltn.C ... VU.IS.l UlllUII , J
i;nrnn . t-i. mu.i.. i..kiil
...... .v.. ..nm., rfitiiipiu ui , iu.iv. i
... , m. . . . .... . .1
.orss. ino new appointments were;
Dr. Franz Klein, a former Minister, Mln-
liter of Justice; Huron von Hochtlnau,
Minister of the Interior; Michael 1
Itobrxynskl, former Governor-General of
Uallcia. Minister without portfolio.
Dr. Franc Btlbral, Minister of Com
merce. Karl Merck, Minister of Finance.
Major-Gen. Urneat Schalble, Minister
of Hallways.
Count Clam-Martlnl, Minister of Agri
culture. INSPIRED BY EMPEROR.
I'raee
Initiative Credited to
Anr Austrian Itnler.
the
I
Geneva, via Parle, Dec. 13. The Swiss
uovcrnmeiu nas transmuted uermany s
........ . , ... . I . .. .1... i. i , i . . i .. 1
ter at Jtome for presentation to the 1
Italian Foreign Office. The newspapers ,
generally believe there lt little hope of
the proposal being evert considered by
the Kntente Allies. The Sul$e of Geneva
says:
"The peace Initiative came from Vi
enna and Is reported to be the work of
tho new Emperor."
LINER POWHATAN IN
COLLISION, BEACHED
Fourteen Passengers on Liner
Removed by U. S. Ship
Yamacraw.
NonroLi:. Va., Dec. 13. The Mer
chants and Miners liner Powhatan, out
ward bound from Norfolk for Hoston
with fourteen pahsengers, was beached
to.nlght In twenty-five feet of water on '
Thimble Shoals. In lower Chesapeake
Uay, after a collision with a vessel, the ,
Identity of which was not established
ed In
radio messages received here.
Four members of the crew were In
jured and the fourteen passengers, all
uninjured, were removed by tho coast
guard cutter Yamacraw and brought to
Newport News.
Wireless "calls for aid from the Pow
hatan quickly brought two destroyers
and u hospital ship from the Atlantic
fleet anchored In Hampton Itoads, Ave
miles away, and tho const guard cutter
Yamacraw aluo responded. A strong
northwest gale whipped across tire bay
and made rescue work dlfllcult, but wire-
i in.. Mtinri. hum inn n.issensers ana
crew. Including the Injured, had been
...-t.. transferred to other vessels.
IUi.TlMonE, Dec. 13. A despatch from
Norfolk to-night to Genet al Manager W.
P. Cor I a of tho Merchants and Miners
Steamship Company said that four men
were Injured lu the collision between the
steamer Powhatan and an unidentified
vessel.
WIRELESS SUIT ARGUED.
Tackrrton Owners Say Object of
French la to Ktubarraas Germany.
In defending proceedings before Vlce-
Chancellor Stevens In Newark brought
by a French company to enforce its
contract to purchase the wireless sta
tion at Tuckerton. N, J., tho German
company now In possession argued yes
terday that the rrencn company's oniy
purpose Is to embarrass Germany. The
Germnn comnany admitted the contract, ,
but argued It be not enforced at this
time.
Without possession of the companion
wireless station at Kllvese, said attor
neys for the German company, the
French company could have no use for
the Tuckerton station. The court re
served decision.
OLD RACING YACHT WPECKED.
Tbr FIcrtM'luK Goes Ashore on
Coast of Cuba.
Tho old schooner yacht Flcctwlng.
which contested with two other yachts
for the glory of winning a raco between
Sandy Hook and England In 1860, was
wrecked on the cast coast of Cuba on
November 11, when bound from Fayal
to tlerrouda, according to her crew,
which arrived yesterday from Cuba.
Tho Fleetwlng was built In 1865 and
wound up her sporting career by being
converted Into a "gospel whip" In this
port. War demand for tonnage caused
her to bo turned into a merchant vessel.
She registered 111 tons and was 105 feet
long.
U-BOAT 55 DAYS AT SEA.
In That Time dnbmnrlnr Did Not
, Knter Any Pori.-
IlERUN (by wireless), Dec. ft. A
record achievement Is chronicled of a
German submarine which has returned
to Its base after fifty-live days at sea,
without entering harbor or receiving
outside atsutanco or any form. The
weather generally was bad.
An official communication Issued to
day says:
"A German submarine on December
, near Malta, sank the transport
steamst Alferle, 4,000 tons, which was
In the service of the French navy.
"The Algeria was bound from Balontca
for France. Of ths military men on
board one officer and six men ware
mad prisoner-."
i mm
L-!
MNUf MUM aTsUNa WATEB.
eat vl s a"'" steppers, sauies.
The members of tho KtnopftUh Mltilttrv
.MCAipin continued In ofTlce by Dr. von Koerber . , . , , i c
. . I " II1HUHEFU I HO 1 1 1 .1 L 1 1 1 111 . HU . V. n m I.a. .1. .. . .. M . 1. ni...unn a
s opinion of were: Col.-Oen. Baron von Gcorgi. Mln-' " ....... jjews Agency the Impression created
'l.lcr of National Defence: Baron von s prior to his departure for Waging- ,h ,.,, of ....
AR6ETS1N6ERAS
6.0. P. MANAGER
$10,000 Job for State Senator
if He Will Head Bcpubli
can Committee.
WHITMAN APPROVES IDEA
,, ,,-., . , n
Party to Be ComillCtCU Oil tile
Lines of Corporation, With
Board of Directors.
Gov. Whitman yesterday approved the
plan to make the offlco of ltepubllcan
State chairman a salaried position. HerRn Affairs, discussed to-day with a
' -11 .1.. 1 1 . CI 1A(vl I -
Ull. ""Civ ivun 'J " ......
. ,. i. i. ...,... .
conierencn OI eruui s. 11 w uiiut -
.. .. ' ... ..
stood mat tne mime' oi mum fcnn.ur
George P. Argetslngcr of Hochester was
suggested for the jilace. and a salary of
10,000 a jear was tentatively tlxed
upon,
Senator Araetslnger's name was dls
cussed following tl o refusal of llepre
(tentative Bertram If. Stiell of Potsdam
to take the place, which will soon be I
made vacant by the retirement of State
sentatlve Knell wrote the "overnor tot
IUS UUllCH HI lUWlimiUll wuuiu uni.tn;.
with his work as State chairman, and
on that ground declined to accept the
ofTlce which llov. Whitman had tendered
him.
S Plan U Feasible.
Knllno'lnc his conference with a num-
ber of ltepubllcan State leaders the lov-
ernor said
ii-l . ... .. i i... .. .. I .. -t .1 atttt 1
manager of the ltepubllcan State com-
mlttee seems feasible, and It U being I
rerlously considered. A man shoum oe
In the ofTlce who can devote his entire
time to it. Of course the man .selected
will have the title of State chairman."
Gov. Whitman declined to comment on
the report that Senator Argetslngcr.
who has been called the Governor's
spokesman In the Senate, was being,
considered for the place, aitnougn mis
Information was vouched for by several
at the conference. The opinion was ex
pressed, however, that It Is very doubt
ful If Senator Argetslngcr would bo will
ing to resign from the Senate.
Committee as Directorate.
If the plan of having a salaried man
ager Is adopted, and there Is every rea
son to believe that it will be. the State
committee will act as a board of di
rectors, and the ltepubllcan State or
ganization will be conducted along
strictly business lints, an the manage
ment or direction of a large corporation
is handled.
The Governor had a long conference i
with ueorge w. Perkins relative to tne (
latter's food Investigation. The Gover-
nor was later asked what he thought of
the report that Mr. Perkins may be a
canuiaate ior iaor nexi jr.ir.
. vwu.i .. .' . .v
never find a nun so well Milted for the ,
Mayoralty as George W. Perkins," lie
replied, "but I doubt whether he would
I'lair.
FALLS AS FARMER; ENDS LIFE.
Former Brooklyn Itr.ldent
mils Suicide In Countr).
MmoLETOw.v, N. V.. Dec. 13. I.ured
by the high prices be had to pay In the
city for farm products, James Gilchrist
gave up his business In Ilrooklyn List
April and bought a fifty ticie farm In
Hloomlngburg. Falling as a farmer
and In dread of returning to the lt
ha nnmmlttpH imli'lilf. tn.iliiv.
For clsht months he. his wife and his
grown stepson had been working their
I best. He sold his milk, eggs und poul-1
try for good prices, nut found tiiese were
more than offset by tho prices ho hid to
pay for feed for hl stock and other
,.vi!U,i ti, fnr... ho hmiL-ht I, .-..I
i.. un..i i.u r,nt, -iiv , ....alio steamer Kolga. we know It from
exponent of "back to the farm, who
h.H l.A.n l'Ia.i m uII 1.U nroi.priv unit
return t,. business which he Knew.
.hi l, ,i,, .h.,. ,11.1,,'t i,..,v, ilm..
to makrfrlends. With knowledge th-t 'Srirriirl"f oirrrf.S'TfiSlsi.ton
ho was fighting a losing battle and w.,1, ""the S tand, has
winter coming on. Gilchrist attempted ,,,,,, L.nIte(, st,es to carry on
this morning to kill himself by taking . m,mrlll war nCcordlng to the Inter
a large don., of chloroform, but he wa u , ,,, of
discovered, l our hours later he shot n .,,,,,,.. nt this moment In.
minscit.
Foil From W.,T.
l'lTTsnui'.o, Dec. 13. Mrs. Dorothy
Russell Itlley. formerly a vaudeville per-
former, daughter of I.llllan Itussell, will
lose her left leg as tho result of a som -
nambullstlc walk out of a window of a
hotel near Patersou, N. J., two months
ago. She Is lu the West Penn Hospital
and the limb Is being prepared for am
put.itlon.
The bones of Mrs. Illley's ankle wero
shattered. Infection set In, and despite
the attentions of physicians hope of sav
in;; tho leg has been abandoned. Tho
patient passes the day hours In prepar
ing Christmas gifts nf art needlework.
Her mother Is with her constantly.
ONE VOTE TO tJOST CITY $25.
It's That of Gunrdsman Who Lives
on Black-fell's Island,
The high cost of voting took rank
yesterday with the high cost of living
when It became known that the city
will have to pay 25 to record the vote
of one member of the New York Na
tional auard, who cast his ballot while
on duty nt the border.
The voter lives on Illackwell's Island
and Is the only guardsman from thnt
district'. It will tcqulro four election
Inspectors, at S5 each, to visit the dis
trict and record the vote, while printing
and other expenses In making the trip
will bring the total cost up to $:5.
The canvass of the soldier vote In'
Greater New York began yesterday, and
It Is estimated that It will cost the
city 185,000 for the 4,000 National
Guard votes cast. Tho result of the sol
dier vote will be officially announced
December 19.
Death Removes Closed Hank's Asset
Vesta Daisy, H prize Jersey cow listed
among the assets of tho wrecked Mutual
Trust Company of Grange, N. J., Is dead.
She cost Kdwln II, Hutch f2,R0u. Hutch
Is awaiting sentence for forcing the bank
to close by procuring raise certificates
of deposit.
TOIB TO WAMHINIiTOX
Dee. :tlh, All eipsnses lll.il, three days,
leeure IINMlraUd klt Baltimore A Ohio
r nsw Jtrsey ceatral ticket calces. Atv,
DOROTHY RUSSEIX M LOSE LEG the li to -Phold Asqullli's famous 1 forced upon Germany, lie denounced
' J ,, K "We won 1 "heathe the sword the offer ns a clumsy trap, a matiieuvr..
. . ..7 . ''.r'l rncr?U ' T" , iA .hPn f", until the objects for which we entered 'to estrange the Allies one from .inothei.
Infection Follonrs Injury Doe to will lune to be kept. He then con- ' 1 ' nnvo ,)e(.n achieved." and concluded with the slgnlllc.int
SAYS ENGLANDiGERMAM
BLINDS AMERICA
Dr. Zimmcrmann, German For
eign Secretary, Thinks Situ
ation Is Falsified.
APPEALS FOR FAIR PLAY
He Asserts British Have Sunk
Kaiser's Merchantmen
Without Warning.
Bkm-in (via wireless), Dec. 13. Dr.
Alfred Zimmcrmann, Secretary for For
.
united Stales toward Germany and
. - .
'r . ,. i . t. - . '
Crent Britain, us outlined In the Abso
elated Press Washington despatch of
November 19. Dr. Zimmcrmann said: 1
."As to the Impression created: Al-I
most since the beginning of the war
two currents of opinion coutd be dls-
. ,,,,. t.,i., ,,. i, t
ccrned ,n Germany. Judging by the
intentionally favored Orcat Britain In,
-
an almost outspoken fashion, uccord-
Ing to ttomc; others took the view that
the United States was neutral In spirit i
and action. j
"The discussion between the udvo-'
rates of these two opinions was some-
llm.. vsrv fidlmittuil Tlila dlanilaulnn !
' I
was reopened by the despatch In ques
tlon. Tho parties and newspapers
that did not believe that America was
observing strict neutrality accepted the
despatch as confirmation of their opln- I
io.i. ...... .w .... ....... ..v- .... ... i
us u shock.
DratriH'tlon nf I'-Hon Is.
"In order to understand this effect
oiid has only to recall the large num
ber of facts which have been liofore
tho eyes of the Gernuiii public during
tho last few yeura. Knglaud lias re
peatedly announced that all Kngllsh
j hlps ought to be ready to destroy
. German eubmarlncs wherever they
tlnd them. This has been publicly
proclaimed, ns welt by private ns by
official persons In England. Quite re
cently Lord Robert Cecil. In the Brit
ish Parliament, gave expression to this
view.
The London Times of November II
,,uhi,ert n letter from a well known
M1,mt,Pr f Parliament and ship owner,
nott p. Houston, promising to every
-si, l0rll captain a prlie of f,000
,, u.uh nn Kngllsh merchant ship dc-
stroyed n Germ.iii submarine.
' Houston on tins occasion uuue.. mui
j.;.1Ku,n sailors ought to
methods of Hawkins ni
return to the
houl(, lmltate tne example set hy Nel-1
hnn n Uxr Copenhagen case tliey oueiu
... inL. ill. ki.ii tnw linn ihelr own himils.
'Houston was fully conscious that ho ad-
vocated and advised actions contrary to
I'om-'W.S. , .w . . .., .
luniuT kiiu.v .un. .ni!-..ic nuu.
marines have attacked and In some cases
have sunk German merchantmen with-
OUl 111" MIKIlir. M..I1IIHH. , iiur. tii-.u
sunk the German steamers llurgemclster,
Votmelle, Dorlta, the Blbo and Hol
lanilla. They were nil attacked by
enemy submarines with artillery or tor
pedoes without the shadow of a warn-
I lug.
1 Case, of the Knian,
....
"llicse lacis oi course jiisiiiy me sus-
piciuu mm .-....... i.w
ers which are simply overdue, or have
returned several met their end In
the same fashion. Ill one case, that of
survivors. In this case seven human
"Ves wcrn lost aim survivors iieciareu
! l"t . "r"1"". marine calmly steered
around the sinking ship without even i
I Mining a nanii i.mi.r.. rescue mere.,
".. comman,,.r of ,,.
submarines arc clear and strict In this
direction, 1 can affirm with absolute
certainty that no German submarlno has
' Intentionally attacked a merchant ship
without warning and without giving all
i on hoard ample time and opportunity
t for rescue.
Kvldenre of Care.
"You will have read a report about a
submarlno that found during stormy
weather a steamer near tho Spanish
coast which the submarine was entitled
to sink. The submarine waited patiently
many hours because the weather made It
Impossible to rescuo those on board.
You will recall other German subma
rines taking the crews of torpedoed
steamers on board until the sea was
smooth and a passing ship could take
them over."
Dr. Zlmmermann pared up and down
his ofllco and repeated :
"These are the facta of the case. Wo
are animated by the best feelings toward
everybody. Hut we aro fighting for the
life und future of our nation. Kvery
body can understand that at such a mo
ment as this German public opinion anal
yses very curefully the facts and com
pares our attitude with that of the en
emy. "Of course we are cut off from tho
greater part of the communications with
the outer world, especially with the
United States. Our enemies use the ca
blet), tho malls and the spoken word In
order to plead their case before the
whole world. Hut the other nations also
ought to hear our voice, our grievances.
"I myself with these words only mean
to explain the reasons for the present
popular feeling in Germany, and I feel
sure that It will be appreciated every
where by all fair minded people.
Misrepresentation Feared.
"The situation Is .that Germany and
her allies are surrounded by enemies mid
that Germany has victoriously carried
the war on all fronts beyond the llmlta
Conlintiril on Second Page.
Houihoru Hallway far All Palais Nouih
Trsli-i dally roni Nsw York! sleouliw and
dining cur ssrvlce, N.Y, Office, in Fifth Ave,
, ...mil ...1 IiIh rnnv.r.R llft.i U'nlL.H
EACH
Press and People About
Unanimous in Opposing'
n Conference.
POSTERS DECLAIM
AGALNST THE OFFER
j Berlin's Action Interpreted
as Effort to J)i vide the
Entente.
. r firnilfir H'lTl
It IxtAfUixn Wllili
AT A V V. V A If T .V 1 V I I .V
' mi.mimj
HO IS LXpCCtetf tO KefCl' tO
the Subject in the
Commons.
Sptdal Cablt Deipaleh to Tax Six.
I London, Dec. 13. Not one favorable
I word Is spoken nnywherc here tipon
I the German peace proposal. Not one
dissenting line Is printed In the entire
press of Great Britain and Ireland,
The apparent unnnlmlty of opinion In-
dlcatcs beyond nil doubt that Great
Britain will not for one moment en
tertain the offer.
Statesmen and nil who are prom
inent In the world of politics arc
nvcrse to discussing the matter before
the definite wording of tho German
offer Is known. All are eager to give
llic new .ioyu i.eorge govcrnmcni 1111 1
absolutely free hand. A careful can
vass of the leaders of public opinion
reveals the most striking agreement
that the German offer should be posi
tively disregarded.
Th trend of public opinion Is shown
by the posters displayed In the atreeto
by lo-nlght's evening papers. "A dove
In sheep's clothes," "Allies, say no!"
"Failure of German trick," are some of
the headings.
Most Cheerful Xerrs.''
The coni-ensus In political circles.
given to the correspondent of THE Sun
ny a man m n iki- "
this . "The German offer la regarded as ,
the most cheerful news Mnce the begin-.
nlng of hostilities." '
T"" mn" ,,olm oul . " '-
oou l usually oner terms in ic..t-c, rminc
,rirvCi that the German move Is
promoted by acute conditions lu Ger
many, but all arc certain mat u n u
premeditated piece of diplomacy.
The only basis or discussion avauanin
rorrespon
the peace terms are as Indicated In
American despatches they aro fore
doomed to failure.
Tho offer Is regarded here as a clever
attempt to sow dissension among the
Allies. The Geruuii plan Is Iwllevcd to
mciuue tne naming in irrini nimn in. g.ii
rms WHICH migUl
nd not to others.
be acceptable to tome a
Fight to the Finish.
There Is good reason to believe that
tho German leaders are finally con-
vlneed that the Central Powers never
can win the war and have now reached
the xenlth of their military power. Long
privations and heavy sacrifices may be
coming for tho Allies, but nevertheless
Germany'a sudden decision to propose
peace "In the causu or Humanity" is
called a bluff by many here, but shrewd
observers point out that most serious
conditions In Germany must have caused
the move.
They call attention to the fact that
tno ..eriimii iimiiraiui, nnu nuv. iniven
for peace, only a few months ago, lu
June of this year In fact, formally de-
r ared that no peace move would Uc tin-
dertaken by Germany. Discussing the
Jutland battle, he sum in tne itelcnstag:
"This Is how tho war map looks now.
If our enemies wish to shut their ees
to It, llien wr num., 11. i.iiu n111.11 ugni
on until a final victory comes. Wo did
what we could to pave the way for
peace, but our enemies repelled us with
scorn. Consequently all further talk of
peace Initiated by us becomes futile und
an evil."
Premier Will ltrply
rremier i.iojh ..curse win rc.er io toe
epeech of the German Chancellor before
the IleMistaK when he makes his state-
?rJlh"fi,
Premier I.loyd George will refer to the
ment In tho llouso of Commons on Tues
day of next week.
The Indications arc that the various
Governments of tho Kntente Allle do
not Intend to act hnstlly In making it
joint resonso to tho pence proposals of
the I7entral Powers. It was pointed out
In well Informed quarters to-Jay that
while each one of the allied Govern
ment might Indicate Its general attitude
consultation anions; tho Allies under the
treaty binding them to such action prob
ably would require two or threo weeks,
making It' unlikely thnt the Joint reply
of all the Allies will be available before
the first of the year,
One of the factors? which, according to
an otilnlon expressed here, militates
against acceptance of the Oennan pro
posal Ik that the opening of negotia
tions would necessarily be followed by
an armWlce. No specific suggestion of
an armistice Is made In the propositi so
far ni is Indicated by the unofficial re-
Cotilinierf oh Hccoml Page,
ARK Ylf Kl!N DOWN? v
rjftwt)' Port. Wins A Ollvo Oil will hull,!
yeu up, 11.40 st Sour d.lr or US Kuluni
a it Nassau sis., W. T. Phone tell Cort.
AivtrUHmtnt.
terms cabled from Washington. Much nouncement that the new- Government's ff demonstration of the In ipregna- t.y this information. German' oibVlnl clr-
display Is being given the editorial of p an for a sweeping mobilization of the ,...,, France and t-nlght express the conviction that
Tlir. Si'N discussing these allege,! terms, civil population for w-.ir work Included , V. . r ranee and (rfijt IJrl(a( y
An expert In political matters tells tin: total suppression nf alcohol. Then Husela, the papers express only slight ., , phut t10 l)oor aKllMt "talking
the rorrespondent of Tltr. St'N that It ho spokn of on liethmann-ilnllweg s ,,(,., t )0 Kmellte Allies will show , peace."
PLANS PEACE
BELLIGERENT
ENGLISH OPINION VERY
TOO SOON FOR ACTION
BY HIM, WILSON'S VIEW
Friends of President Say He Will Make No Overtures
to Belligerents Until Requested to Do
So by Both Sides.
From persons In New York who have I
i . .i.,i.. ,,i i fr-nilnir
President Wilson's attitude toward large
matters TlIK St'N obtained yesterday
this general prediction as to the course
their friend the President will take as
a result of Germany's gener.il peace In
vitation to the Kntente Allies.
In the !lr.t place tho President will
take no Immediate step beyond trans
mitting to the Kntente Powers the over
ture made by Germany and her alllc".
The President's point of view, that the
time has not come for a renewal of his
proffer of mediation, has not been
changed by Germany's latest diplomatic
step. The German peace offer Is lack
ing In specific terms and affords no real
basis for the United States Government
to act upon.
It Is assumed, from familiarity with
the President's definite opinion, tha; hn
wilt consider that his duty at present
lies only In acting with the heads of
other neutral nations In formally ac
quainting the Kntente Powers with Ger
many's proposal. It Is taken for granted
that he believes that It would be as Im
proper or as Indiscreet for him to
project himself Into the present situa
tion as It would have been for him to
submit pence suggestions six months ago
or a month ago.
President Knons Kntrntr'a Mood.
There Is strong reason for believing
that the President has good Information
that the l'ntcute Allies are In no mood
for any sort of peaco that would be
agreeable to Germany and her allies;
that they aro determined to prosecute
the war until Germany admits she Is
liatn. ThrA Is rfnsnn for nsMFrf fnir
BRIAND GALLS
OFFER 'POISON'
French Premier Warns Purlin-
1 ment Afrninst Plnn to Spread
Dissension.
."pevial Cablt Dttpalch to Tne St v.
Paiiis, Dec. 13. Germany's pt-aco pro.
posal Is n clumsy trap, n inuniruvre In
tended to cause dissension among the
Allies, Premier llrland told the French
Chamber of Deputies to-day. He was
cheered enthusiastically There !s every
sign that the Chamber supports him In
thl. view.
peace move
"At the very minute she proclaims vic
tory whllo making fresh efforts to win
It Germany sends us through the neu-
tr.ils a word with which I must deal,"
1... 1 .. TM... ........... ..t'....nlt nitwit-
uta slleilce In thoChambeT M. I.rland
lnl,,.l tt.n. , nm.tit mil ili-nl fllllv
XUc station h-aus0.. had' n!i
th. offlelal version of the German Chan-
cellor's speech, but he said
"It Is my duty to w arn the country
against possible poisoning, so 1 cry at -
tcntlon. beware!"
Cheering followed each phrase.
The speaker's tones became dramatic
as he interpreted i.ermmys offer as an
attempt to deceive neutrals and Ger-
1 ,1 . 1 1 lu 1. ..!,(.
. phrase : "The republic under such clr-
cumstances will Ho no less than the Con.
. volition did." Which means to a French-1
man that France will fight on.
I "I have the duty to place my country
,.m guard against possible poisoning,"
K.ild M. llrland nmld annlause. "When
;l country arms nseii to tno icetn, wnen
lt seizes 'men everywhere In violation of
the laws of nations and enforces labor
m,n them. 1 should be irulltv If I did
not rry out lo my country; 'Iiok out!
fake care!'
( Uvo,tho right in the first place to
Hily ,,r r on(.mM fr the hundredth
time: 'The blood Is on jour hands, not
upon ours,'
Socialists Intrrrnpt.
The Chamber held n large number of
Deputies who desired to witness th
first appearance of the new Cabinet. M.
llrland Instead of readlua tho declara
tion of the programme of the reorgan
i , : ... i .ii i. .
M1" 8tr, ""'lnc'1 'xlemporane-
ouslv' U,e 1 lel,llor Hi,l'l m "W'1
t MUMlloni. had been
considered, The Socialists Interrupted
the speaker with Cries of "No!" but
Paul Deschanel, President of the Cham
ber, succeeded In restoring order
"Tho Government Is ready for all ills-
cusslons and all explanations," continued
M. Hrliind, He referred to the ndoptlou
by the Chamber nf a resolution demand-
lug a reorganization In tho conduct of
the war, the constitution of a war com-
mlttee and modifications In tho high
command, Do said the war commltteo
won mi su permniic nuy i.iiu mat u woiini
Increase the production or war neces
sities. "No one can say that I have even been
unduly optimistic," said M. Ilrlanil, "Hut
to-day, however, more than ever wo
must havo the conviction that victory Is
certain,
In conformity with the change in mili
tary command announced last night
President Polncare to-dy signed n de
cree naming Gen. Joffre, Cominander-ln-Chief
of the French armies, technical
C'oHfliliird on Second 'nor,
HPKNII TlIK HUlilDAts
st White Sulphur Springs, West Vlrzlnlt
Adv,
PARLEY IN- JANUARY;
IS TO SEND DELEGATES;
HOSTILE
that the best opinion lu Washington
the opinion of advisers closest to Mr.
Wilson Is that tho Allies will reject
flatly any such terms as were stated
unofficially yesterday morning; and that
the United Stales would merely lose
prestige If It sought to npproach Kng
land, Franrti and Itussla lu their pres
ent determined mood.
Moreover, there Is the feeling that the
President Intends to wait until the Kn
tente Allies invite him to act In some
way toward bringing nliout peace, There
In reason to state that he does not feel
dlxposed to move uikjii the Invitation of
only one side in the great war.
'o 111 Peace Step Soon,
The above are the general conclusions
as regards tho President's attitude that
have been reached by some of his friends.
They say in addition that no big, new
step by him need be looked for In the
Immediate future toward seeking to end
the war because, as the best posted man
In the United States ns regards the real
public opinion in all of the belligerent
countries, ho li.is concluded th:it the
war must yet run a considerable time.
Col. Kdward M. House, probably the
person best able to state the President's
point of view or to outline the President's
probable course of nctlon, returned from
Washington lust night and declined to
ay one word about the German offer or
about his talk with tho President. Col.
House attended the Cabinet dinner and
then remained over In Washington yes
terday fur a conference with the Presi
dent. At hlx home. 113 Hast Fifty
third street, Col. House said last night:
"I never discuss what the President
may or may not do. It Is not true that
I was askwl to go to Washington to
noTVcro5gToru?ope."'rer- '
GERMAN PRESS
NOT OPTIMISTIC
Dojilit Allies Will Accept
Pence Propositi, but See
Wise Diplomatic. Move.
t
llEni.i.v (via London), Dec. 13. Tt
cannot be said that the peace offer of
,. . ...
Germany has been received with pro-
nounced optimism by the press. There
Is a decided tone of caution against ex-
I pectlng Immediate peace. Although it Is
j ... . . . ....... welt
, choen for offering peace, in view of
"
pes that the Kntente Allies will show
a willingness to treat.
,. , ' .. .. .i
It Is not expected, on the other hand.
that the overtures will he rejected out-
rlclit without an lnoulrv belnir made an
1 to terms. Hut In view of all the recent
. . .
1 uHerf" '"' org.nlzatli.ns of the
uocriiinems on toe sine in toe r.uieiiir
I It Is regarded as highly doubtful
whether the Allies will be ready to make
1 p,..ieo ,m any terms without trying an-
other year's lighting,
t w recognized here generally, how-
c,cr tiat Germany's offer Is a shrewd
ntl(1 timely diplomatic step, eien If no
I .,,.( . .. r suU foiim. inimedlutelv. for
' -
It Is contended that It must convince the
neutral States that tlm responsibility
will lie now with the Kntente and that
It must strengthen the peace party In all
the belligerent countries.
Term i. re I'repnrrd.
Although Chancellor on Itethm.iuii
Itullweg did not disclose the definite
, proposals on which Germany and her
nllles an. urnuinl in in.. nun. in hi
speech before the Itelchstng. such pro
j posals are ready and will be commiini-
ised to tho Kntente Powers If tho
Chancellor's offer should fall upon re.
sponsle ears. The general opinion ei
pressed In the Itelchst.ig was that the
situation would he advantageous to Ger
many whether or not the Chancellor's
offer was accepted by the Kntente.
Some of the opponents of the Chan
cellor are opposed to anv move In the
direction of peace except on tho basis
of "woo to the connuereil " Most meiii-
hers of tho Itelchstng, however, express
lite opinion tn.it the Kinperor s dec s on
was wine and timely and showed pleas.
tire nt the formal step taken toward end
ing the war.
When tho Chancellor had concluded
his speecli an attempt was made to
forco an Immediate debate by the an.
nexatlnnlst bloc under Major Krnst Has-
sermanii, leader of the National Lib-
erals, and Count Westarp, leader of the
i Conservatives, supported by the Kv.
. tieme Socialists. This move was firmly
icslsted by the leaders of the moderate
parties, who agreed with the Chancellor
' Dial a general discussion at luicaihi. 1
peace conditions, before the attitude of
tho enemy powers was madt known,
could only Injure the cause of peace and
pi. ice uermany ni a ilipiomatlc disad
Mintage. Their nttltudo was that If tho
Central Powrrs exposed all their cards
XrJTTJLihry" t- aim, for which the Kn-
riTi, i V,i.,i " ,, te no is ngniiiig.
He ..- hi 1 ".,n,i'.,ril,ine,,.t "f !!!e' ,'","n"- "olds also thnt such nctlon
rolcr ie, I1., free hiT1. '0" ,?Ve,h"',,1''l i,arl "f W"r f "'nqUest O,
f.ovensnen u free hand to conduct fur-'.i,,, part of the Kuleuto counled win. .
' "m Z ih.?mSf.rnl",,ln,W! "' fl,r,l"r rioseci.llon of w. r f.on
the . ffe,"of ' th rrntral' rl"wiT. . ,lw worM al Hr" fro"1 ,l,c sul,Jea
the orrei of the (.entrnl lowers will be i ,lf ,ht! Ktento 'overs,
Conlbinril on Second Page.
oEAHOAKl) FI.A. t.lMITKIt, H0 P. ).
Cum, Jan. 3 sr. t'alrn Heseli, r.iSO A. m..
Mlninl V',00 A, M,. rd morn. 3 hr. qulckot
to llellenlr and St. Petarsburg. tno. flea
board Air Un Hy.. 1114 B'dway, igv.
TO OVERTURE
Rernstorff Believes Thcrd
Will Be No Terms Out
lined at Once.
THE HAGUE SUGGESTED
AS MEETING PLACE
Spain and Switzerland Said
to Have Expressed
Support.
UNITED STATES HOLDS
BACK ITS DECISION
Entente Is Expected hy Ger
, man Officials to Talk
Peace.
WABitlNOTotf, Dec. 13. Important
Information bearing on tho procedure
Germany liopea to follow In initiating
pence negotiations vns divulged to
Tub Si'.v correspondent to-night. It
Is to tho effect that the rent aim of
the peace proposal Is to bring nbotit
n conference between delegates from
all the belligerent countries with u
view to un cNc'liango of views ns to
the obJcctH which each side Is lighting
for and ns to possible terms nf pence.
The view of the Imperial German
i Government Is that such n conference
' ""l "" l T"c '"'"c ,lboUt
I the middle of January, provided the
I Kntente Allies do nut summarily re
fuse to "tulk about jh'iicc." '
Count von Ilernstorff, the German Am
bassador, said to-night that peace terms
would doubtless not be discussed cither
publicly "or through exchange of com
munications. He Is undeistnod to re
gard a conference lctwccn iepreeutu
tles of the belligerents as a necessary
preliminary to any dlscussuu of terms.
J Xelltrnl Support Manifested.
Although the I'nited States has not
in.idc known its position It In s.ild lu
German circles that both Spam and
'Switzerland, the other lieutinl tuitions
which are acting as Intel medlarh'S for
German ptoposul, have expressed or
' manifested mi Intense Interest ill the pro-
,, lnil(.al.. that they will give It
i their whole hearted support
, " I'-1"' and Swlueiland are tin-
..,,.,.,...., .. i...jfi . .... i ...i ......
tlons ..re thai thev belike ll.'e Knten'ie
nl ' wining lo taiK over tne
In.,1 .....I iiln.ii ..r ifrimii, Iia..-..
tii'jMt.s turn mum ii nit t.ii limp i linn n
, pea
' authoritative German view Is that
the Kntente will not make Its real pnsl-
,iin-ejlMr mn u ,Cpic formally to the
German Identic note addressed to the
enemies of the Fatherland. The German
'"!""'!U:i',"ll "H,U""'? ' "))'"
1 ""' 'crnu ( uill I. . Hiui.
peace'." T,e Teuton view Is that It calls
.u. r,.cvi.,.- ... . n.i i. ......
In the neg.itlxe Kir vaiinus i .irons'
" "f V. " , atllV , .iVvran.
! '. taking tne aiiirmaim. an-
sri.
Gorman
llxprt'tnttnus.
It l bellrxcd that In the meantime
Hrltlsh und French statesmen will take
nuvantngn or tneir oppuitiinity lor
sounding the clarion ,h11 of tho Kntente s
. w llllngm ss to "light to tho hitter . nd"
1 n'"' lo In"!" l' peace only on the
. ... ...
terms in nu i.utenie victniy. nils tier
man diplomacy expects to find lu the
speeches of leading Kntente statesmen m
the respective Paill.iinents of the allied
capitals.
Hut the Knlciite's iinrner w not going
to be Judged ill Germany solely by these
statements nf patriotic determination ami
J1,1'"1'0, ,n m:lUr I"'1'"1 ""'V victors,
1'hn Kntente attitude will bo Judged lu
Germany by the s .eclllo answer which
comes to tho German communication
lil.nle direct In her enemies.
This communication, It Is pointed out,
makes no specific mention of terms. It
lenves the way clear fur the Kntenln to
express willingness to talk peace on their
own ""lis or lo agree to discuss pence
provided their anus In tho world war
ma' M" regarded ns n.vepied, Germany
lather expects some such answer nnd
" "'" " " iMiiiming a
stumbling block.
The next move would be simply to
Arrange for u meeting place w hem rep.
lesentatlves of tint coiuililcs at war
could get togethei "And they would
rever leave the room without hnvlng
reached an understanding," Is the sig-
nlflcant remark nf one of the German
1 diplomats.
, c,e
' l'nte
PlnehiK th'- llurdt'ti.
ermnny does not believe that
ths
nte can afford to refuse summarily
lo discuss peace. It would place tho
burden for continuing the war squarely
on tho shoulders of the Allies, according
to tho Germ in iew, and would place
each Government of the Kntente In nn
unfavorable position with lis own pen-
pie, It would he regnmeii ns a lefmal
Pirdlctlon Is luad.i In (ieniKin circles
that no Kntente statesman ran afford to
refuse even to talk about peace, Full
allowance s made tor the patriotism of
all the warring nations, enemies of tier
many, but It Is nevertheless felt that the
peopU of each and all of these countries
A
aa-Ut.
si.ujuaii
