'
. T f g "...
H W U -rr- U Ul Ul A PNTTTTTh lT A TT
"RSOEL8IQB," '
VQL;35-EstabliShedl832. GREENVILLE, OHIO, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14,1916 nn oa
I "T m
i
' is ssssss a
tt.i: j .i:.. I -.. J i i
Jionaay uayeuea. u urocaues are usea ior ttetty3DUrg. Palestine.
Thanksgiving and Christmas The third number of our Sun- Mrs. Clara Savior. Mrs. Malin
bemi-Transparent Effects. ,day school lecture course will be da Wilcox, Mrs. Miranda Judy
Hats with brims or upstanding ven next Friday night at our and Mrs. Viola Teaford were
mm. oi unsei jace or jetted net school auditorium by the Georgia Sunday afternoon callers at T. J.
ar very mccn seen witn tne Jubilee Quartette. Thin will h. Wiim
I MA A. A i J. - i 1 I I
ously for even people on the edge c uumkj types or. aress an attraction worth while. The corn trip tourists returned
of the circle. Theatres here worn at afternoon affairs and for We are all Jivimr in CTet . home lt Saturdav mVhf,
are so near together this ; year
that holiday gayeties are appar
ently rushed in ahead of time
and the social top spins continu
spring up almost every nfobt, semi-dress evening occasions. pectation that Santa Claus will The Hih School Liter s.
and at nearly every one then is Silver la especially is most ef- not fail to. remember us with ciety will have exercises on next
.... an offering of unusual attractive- "veiy empioyea ior tnese nats something worth the day we eel-1 Friday
ness. while -afternoon concerts Ui Cttcu wun wimmmgs ot ebrate. Santa has h?n a n. The PaUWfii,,
...... I 1 . - -"TW" W'UIHMB Will
and morning musicals crowd the stant visitor to us during a" life- rive a programme oh FridaV be.
j : ii i I -i
UK ai,u Vdnous otner iranspar- time covering manv veara. - fore Christmas
encies are prettily exploited.
COURT HOUSE NEW5.
days for those who have time to
be crowded.
The Bag Craze.
Our Sunday schools are both Born to Mr.
I i Kt vvau
rurturoans are more often preparing the rendition of .pro- Jefferis, on last Friday night, a
There is a veritable craze for , V "A nis ior Ufinstmas Eve and are sturdy boy of fine size
fancy wrist bags, and ao inany , . Nooklng forward to the" usual Miss Helen Starbuck visited at
.... .... . ana ine aaneung tassel, or other treat eiven as wmoK. m, t .
, - - . iWiuuvt ui i i t to ivuaocr b, near xsasn
uiiwlwlt, noma us piace as a thefestivaL This is such a well ville, last Sunday.
iinci, uure. established feature of the pro- Mrs. Berta Creager and chfld-
f VERONA ULARKE
variations are seen of every mo
del that an attempt at descrip
tion is impossible. Bags of black
satin, velvet or moire, patterned
in steel beads, are perhaps in the
majority, rather small puffy bags
tbat suggest the forms devoted
Sloan's Liniment for Stiff
. Joints.
Rheumatic pains and aches get
to holding fancy work. There into the joints and muscles, mak-
1 m . ....I.
are xarge nat Dags ot Oriental mg every movement torture,
embroideries, with much gold Relieve your suffering with
thread in their design, and bags Sloan's Liniment; it quickly pen
of every variety and color in fan- etrates without rubbing, and
cy silk and velvet, usually with soothes and warms your sore
glittering tinsel threads, and of- muscles. The congested blood is
tea with beaded embroideries, stimulated to action; a single ap
tassels and fringes. Saddle bags plication will drive out the pain.
! gram that nothing else wfll sat- ren of Union City are visitimr
wf y tct or adolescent. relatives here at nresenf:
James C. Routzong a lifeloho- Dec. 11. Fkom Palestine,
resident of Van Buren township,
died yesterday, making a vacan
cy in a brotheihood of five sons
Painful Coughs Believed.
Dr. King's New Discovery is a
of Wm. Routing, ho passed soothin healiri remedy for
from life many years atro Thp and colds that has stood
neighborhood has much to claim the test of neariy fifty years-
for good by reason of the nrec For tnat cough that strains the
e"ce of these brothers, but they throat and saps the 'ty try
are not all there now, two of Dn king's New Discovery. The
them reside in or near Greenville. soothin Pine balsams and mild
Interment will be in Abottsville Iaxative ingredients soon drive
cemetery I the cold from the system. Have
l a hnHo
For three days last week there I t-:
pores. Get a bottle today at your was quite an exodus from, this Lw. ,;i!,LJ tn.
druggist, 25c. Adv I township to Greenville to attend . - . . . . ,
i . . - ...
I nu
tne trial to set aside the will o:
Brief Items. the late M. Martindale, brought
Sloan's Liniment is clean, con
venient and quickly effective, it
does not stain the skin or clog the
The destruction of grasshopper I by Reecca Yount and others, tt
i i
eggs by fall plowing, disking and was hotIy pon tested for three
harrowing is recommended when aays at tne ent of which it was
practicable. given to the jury, who . brought
Allowing animals to harvest jma unanimous verdict sustain-
i . ...
corn saves the labor of cutting. In tJie wiuV This affirms the
husking, hauling to the feed lot,
and hauling the manure back on
the land.
Limestone soils in general are
particularly well suited to alfalfa.
I il. a
assurance mac a person has a
right to make such disposition of
his property as may seem right
to him.
We had a runaway two-horse
McCall Design
of ample proportions swing from
the wrist, and others have long
silk straps for the purpose, or
large bracelets of jade ! or metal
to hold them on the arm. Noth
ing is too ornate or too bizarre
for this ue, and most of these
bags are fitted with mirrors, van
ity cases, and the numerous small
contrivance that women find
convenient. One can find pretty
bag! for small prices, or can
spend almost any amount for
elaborate opera types. There is,
of course,, a great field here for
the woman, who can copy readily,
to make expensive looking bags
at small cost, and no doubt many
Christinas gifts will go in this
form.
Louis Vests.
Long vests modelled after those
worn by Louis XIV of France,
and his courtiers, are a very dec
orative note in this winter's mode.
Made of satin in contrasting color,
these set off suits of plain colored
cloth and velvets, give opportun
ity for considerable variety and
but even sucn lands are frequent-1 team nitcned to a wagon one day
ly acid and require liming to grow last week by having been left at
this crop successfully.
a rack untied wiile; the- owner
About 216.037 canaries, 7,080 transacted some business else
partridges, 15.841 pheasants, 5,
345 miscellaneous game birds,
and 25,747 nongame birds were
where. This should remind eve
ry person that the right thing to
do is never fail totie, ven the
imported in 1914 under federal most 17. animaV e have
permit. ' no report of fcmages resultrng.
During 1915 the total road and but could cot have been trifling,
bridge expenditures in the TTm. pastor of ouME. church
ted States amounted to about is engaged itfholding a revival
$282,000,000, cf which probably raeetm at Webster, one. of .the
not over $15,000,000 represented aPPntments of this charge. ,
the value of the statute and con- About he 21st m& WMI bring
vict labor, us the shortest day and winter,
WhUe corn culture under drou- but weather is here in
ghty conditions is largely a mat-la ance" "
ter of takine chances with sea. D. Moul, wife and daughter
sonal conditions, certain control- of Pleasant HilL were vis-
lable conditions of soil and seed itor here, w among rela
of ten determine the success or tives and friends.
failure of the crop. ?ey Mitchell was the guest of
C. J. Miller's family yesterday
Bath Robes, Smok- for dinner.
ing Jackets, Sweaters,
Dec. 11.
XOB
Gloves, Shirt3, Hosi- Where iuld you
ery, Neakwear, Cuff be more apt to find a
Links, Bags, Suit Ca- gift more appropriate
ses, etc.: all suitable fnr "Hun" than
Tr,4T.,"f """ for Christinas 'gifts. The Progress. '
of these vests have collars of fur & A,AU CXUress,
and bands of fur at the lower OgreSS, GrfiCPYlUe, Q.
edtfe. andaUaorts of embroider- r Greenville, O. srf-SSili, ''
Wishing you a Mer
ry Christmas and a
Happy New Year, we
want you to know that
we have the goods
suitable for a Man or
Boy as a Christmas
gift. The Progress,
Greenville, Ohio.
Warning to Buyers of
Baled Hay.
The department is investigat
ing the practice of some shippers
of hay of veneering or facing the
hales. Veneering consists in
feeding to the balingmachinean
occasional forkful of hay that; is
of higher grade than the bulk of
the lot being baled and manipu
lating the forkful in such a way
that the high-grade hay covers
the outside of the bale, making
the bale appear to contain better
hay than it actuallyfdoes contain.
The National Hay Association has
requested the department to co
operate with it in trying to elim
inate this practice, believed to be
dishonest Buyers of baled hay
are warned to be on the lookout
for this practice in order to avoid
accepting on a cursory examina
tion a lower grade of hay. than
they intend to purchase.
CASTOR I A
For Infants and Children
In Use For Over 30 Years
Always bears
the
Signature of
Read Hagaiina Offers
Ffega Five of Journal.
PROBATE COURT.
Sale of real estate confirmed
and deed ordered made to pur
chaser in estate of Mary J. Van-
scoyoc
First and final account filed in
guardianship cf Elizabeth Hart
Inventory and appraisement
filed in estate of Moses Hollinger.
Order of private sale of per-
soil property returned in estate
of Henry W. Schafer.
Last will of S. A. Hostetter
was admitted to probate and re
cord. Petition filed to sell real estate
to pay debts in estate of Henry
L. Yount
Petition filed to sell personal
property at private sale in as
signment of Stanley D. Frizell.
Account of final distribution
filed in estate of Philonzo Carpenter.
O'der of public sale of real es
tate issued in estate of Mary J.
Heath.
W. R. Denniston was appoint-
1 ed guardian of Clyde Denniston,
a minor; bond $500.
Milton and Ebbert Corwin were
appointed executors under the
will of Amelia Shank; bond $2500.
Order of private sale ot real es
tate returned in estate of Susan
Ashcraft.
iirst account filed in estate of
Mary J. Vanscoyoc.
Last will of Wm. F. Thomas
was admitted to probate and re
cord. ,
Order of private sale of real
estate returned in guardianship
of Benjamin J. Hagedorn.
Bert Huffe was appointed
guardian of Josiah Grill; bond
$2000.
First awl final account filed in
estate of Sarah C. Rohr.
First and final account filed in
estate of John Gilmore.
Inventory filed in guardianship
of Nellie Schricker.
Jemima Hostetter was appoin
ted executrix under the will of
S. A. Hostetter; bond $20,000.
MAKKIAOE lJCNSfcb.
Corwiri T Harmeyer, 26, far-
mer,.Lightsville..son of .W. H.
Harmeyer, and Goldie L Disher,
21, Mississinawa township, dau
ghter of Warren a Disher.
Wm. H. Ballard, 20; machin
ist Gettysburg, son of Wm. J.
Ballard, and Mary Ji Eikenber
ry, 18, Franklin township, dau
ghter of Owen Eikenberry.
Glen E. Chalfant 25. telegra
pher, Arcanum, son of Homer S.
Chalfant and Helen B Stein
metz, 21, clerk, Arcanum, dau
ghter of Edgar R. Steinmetz..
COMMON ILEA iJUKT.
HEW CASES.
2101S H. M. Briney versus
Barbara Phillips and other ; to
recover $600 as commission in the
sale of the real estate of Mary J.
Vancoyoi, deceased,"
21019-The Peet & ShfeterCo.
versus Trinity- Evangelical Luth
eran Church Congreg? tion of Ver
sailles: for foreclosure of mecha
nic's lien.
HH29 -iiinnie Brown versus
Wm. McKee and othere: for par
tition of real estate.
21021 Frank Long versus F.
0. and Olympia Henizer; to re
cover $300.
21022 J. M. Shields versus the
County Commissioners' for $1525
as damages to land by overflow.
21023 DanielFall versus Chris-
tena Warren Fall; for divorce,
extreme cruelty charged.
21024 C. Sehlientz versus P.,
C. a & St. L. R'y Co". for $168.07
as damages to shipment of eggs.
BTOU AGAINST
OWNERSHIP BY
THE GOVERNMENT
Gives KeYisotfs Cciiiifp Ills
Views oo Railroad Control. ,
REGISTER OP DEEDh.
J. C. Marlin to Mary Arnold,
lot 515 in Union City, $600
F. J. Fitzgerald to Trustees of
Neave township, a small tract in
Neave township, $1,
J. E. Teaford to Orla Alexan
der, quit claim to one sixth of 160
acres in Harrison township, $1.
Mary J. Vanscoyoc, per execu
trix, to John McEowen, 170 ac
res in Greenville township, $10,000
Celia Dimmer to Etta Henkle,
quit claim to 45 acres in Green
ville township, $1.
Etta Henkle to Celia Ditmer,
quit claim to 120 acres in Green
ville township, $1.
Riley M. Brandon to John H
Shafer, 90 acres in Richland town
ship, $12,000.
Clifford L. Carpenter to Ernest
Joy, 21 acres in German town
ship, $250-
Jesse L. Snider to Joseph Mil
ler, 3 acres in Union City, $1075.
Effie Kester to Berman Four-
man, lots 102 and 103 in Arcan
um, $1525.
Catharine Shimp to M. R. Jef
feris, 16 acres in Wayne town
ship, $1000.
Eli Miller to Mary Triechman,
quit claim to 40 acres in Missis
sinawa township, $2800.
U. E. Rush to B. R. Zech, 40
acres in Greenville township,
$5500.
Laura J. Harshman to Law
rence Mauk. lots 189 and 190 in
Versailles, $400.
John Bromagen to Samuel
Stump, undivided one -twenty
seventh of?7 acres in Washington
township, $86.
F. M. Bromagen, guardian, to
Samuel Stump, undivided Iwo-
twentysevenths of 7 acras in
Washington township, $172.
F. M. Bromagen to Samuel
Stump, undivided twentyfour-
cwentyseventns of 7 acres in
Washington township, $2067.!
COMPETITIOS PAEfEiMBLE
Fdarl Regulation Should Not Bo Al
lowed to Excluda Exorcise of State
Authority, Ho Contend Thinke Rail
road 8tocka Should Represent Actual
Value and 3e Stable at Government
Bond.
How to Check That Cold.
When it is painful to breathe
and fever sends chills up and
down your back, jou are in for a
cold. A timely dose of Dr. Bell's
Pine Tar Honey will stop the
sneezes and sniffles. The pine
balsam loosens the phlegm and!
clears the bronchial tubes, the
honey soothes and relieves the
sore throat The antiseptic qual
ities kill the germ and the con
gested condition is relieved.
Croup, whooping cough and
chronic bronchial affections
quickly relieved. At all drug
gists, 25c Adv
READ OUR....
CLUBBING OFFEBa
Washington, Dec. 11. -William J.
Brjau, who sturtlwl the country ten
fears ago by advocating government
ownership of railroads, appeared be
fore the Xewlands Joint Committee on
Interstate f'ntnnintvo lust
port of the claim t.Jt the states should
be allowed to retain authority- vr th
regulafton of all transportation lines
within their borders. Mr. Bryan ex
plained that he had long regarded gov
ernment ownership as Inevitable, but
only because of railroad opposition to
effective regulation.
Against Government Ownership.
'Personally I cannot sav that I de
sire government ownership," he ex
plained, "because I lean to the indi
vidual idea rather than to the collec-
tive idea; that is, I believe that eov-
eminent ownership is desirable only
wnere competition Is impossible."
Alfred P. Thorn, counsel to the Rail
way Executives' Advisory Committee,
previously had presented before the
members of the Newlands Committee
as one of his reasons for urcinsr a bet-
ter balanced and more systematic reg
ulation of railroads the argument that
this Is the only alternative to govern
ment ownership. Calling attention to
the restrictions imposed uoon the
transportation lines by conflicting state
laws and regulations, to the practical
cessation of new construction and to the
impossibility under existlne condition
of securing the new capital needed for
extensions and betterments of railwur
iacUities. be warned tha CnerresHi-n
mat unless they provided a fair and
reasonable system of regulation that
would enable the railroads to meet the
growing needs of the country's busi
ness the national government would
be compelled to take over the owner
ship of the lines with all the evils at
tendant upon such a system.
Preservation of Competition.
Mr. Bryan, on the other hand hnlri
that the further extension of federal
authority over the railroads would be
a step la the direction of government
ownership. lie advanced the view that
tne centralization of control in the
hands of the national sovernment
would Impose too ereat a burden unoii
the regulating body, would offer strong
temptation to railroads to interfere In
politics and would encouraire the eon- ,
eral movement toward centralization
of power in the federal government at
the expense of the states. He said that
he did not object to consolidations of i
railroad lines so long as they did not
destroy competition, that lie knew of
no comnlaint ns-iiinst rrwit niilwuv .
systems because of their size and that 1
he believed that the preservation of
competition was the test to be applied ,
to all consolidations. i
4
Regulation of Securities.
Mr. Bryan declared himself In favor
of national regulation of railway stock
and bond Issues, but added that he saw !
no reason why that should exclude the ,
states from acting on the same sub-
Ject as to state corporations. "I would
like to see the stock of a railroad, as ,
long as it is in private hands, made as
substantial and as unvarying as the
value or a government bond." he as- '
serted. t
He suggested that railroad caDitall- t
zatlon be readjusted to equalize it with
actual valuation of the nror.ertv ren-
resented, making due allowance for ;
equities, and that when this was done ,
the roads should be allowed to earn ;
sufficient income to keep their stock :
at par and to create a surplus. The
latter, he tentatively proposed, might
be allowed to amount to 25 Der cent
of the capital j
Railway Earnings Low.
This subject of railroad capitalization
and the amount of railroad earnings
received further attention from the
committee during its recent sessions.
In answer to Questions bv Senator
Cummins, Mr. Thorn submitted figures
showing the net earnings of the roads
in recent years. These figures show
that during the five years from 1903
to 1910 the average net earnings were
5.25 per cent of the net capitalization.
while for the five years from 1910 to
1915 the average was only 4.56 per
cent The total earnings on the stock-
computed by adding to the net oper
ating Income the income from the an- '
curitles owned and deducting bond In
terest, were tor 1910, 7.09 per cent;
for 1911, 6.17 per cent: for 1912. 4.97
per cent; for 1U13, 5.94 per cent; for
1SU4, 4.W5 per cent; for 1915, 3.44 per
ent, thus showing an almost contin
uous decrease throughout this six year
itertod. It was announced that Hal-
ford Ertckson, formerly chairman ef
be Wisconsin Railroad Commission
vould submit more complete Informs.-
Ion on this subject to the Committee
a utter date. . . ,
