1
' c
*
? .
Generally f^^con^ed cold to- ^I . ^ ^ Ayt/i4 ^ ^ IWff TrOm PrCM to Womg
night and tomorrow; temperature _^^k A A ^ I) ) ! jj
SS^ffiS ;6indree,: I I M|7 9|Tf| 17 AM' wr Within the Hour"
Temperature for twenty-four hours end- A H MF H ^4 H H ???????
ing 2 p. rrr.; Highest, 2:30 p.m. ^^k J H H J W I I I * I I I Hill f I k * H H
terday; lowest. 22, at 8 a.m. today. W M ^R, J^k . . ^k A ^ ? -. .. _
Fufl report on page 26. ^ l^T * fV^ ^ ^
? f y 0 I j / Swtni Net Clrrvlattra, Moath of November,
V, ^ 1B16. Dally Areraic T?*57? Suaday. MJ8L
No. 29,532. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1916.-THIRTY PAGES. * ONE CENT."
FIGHT ON IN HOUSE
ON CLERKS' RAISE
j Amendments for Higher Sched[
ule Than Proposed Now
Meets Opposition.
MAY MAKE SPECIAL RULE
Clerks' salary raises, as proposed in
the legislative appropriation bill, pave
the House the first real scrappy afternoon
it has had this session. No sooner
had the bill been taken up at noon
today than a series of skirmishes was
opened on individual salaries by different
members, and Representative
.Austin of Tennessee served notice on j
trip House that when the proper moment
arrives he will attempt to amend
the bill by substituting a much higher
schedule of increases than those proposed
by the committee.
Representative Austin's amendment
is virtually the Penrose bill, providing
increases of 25 per cent for employes
up to $900, 20 per cent from $900 to
$1,400, 15 per cent for employes between
$1,400 and $2,000 and 10 per cent for
employes between $2,000 and $2,600.
Will Be Opposed Vigorously.
Representative Austin's amendment
v ill be vigorously opposed. Representative
Sisson of Missouri, a member of
the subcommittee which reported the
ten-and-five per cent raise legislation,
sounded the oppoaitionu's keynote today
in a speech, in which he said there
/ is too much tendency to forget "the
fellow who pays the taxes which supports
the government and too much inclination
to yield to the demands of
the persons nearest the Capitol."
Representative Byrns of Tenneesee,
chairman of" the subcommittee in
charge of the bill, is prepared to protect
his legislative proposal effecting
1?J and 5 per cent raises by a special
rule. This means he will request the
House to throw special parliamentary (
protection around the salar\-raising
legislation, wmcn will assure its pass- j ,
age through the House without amend
nient and render it immune from points 1
of order.
Test May Be on the Bule.
The rule, when introduced, must be
passed on by the rules committee and
reported to the House. It is assumed a j |
favorable report will follow. i
When the report is presented formally
in the House by the rules committee there
will be a short debate on the subject and
a vote will be taken. If any one desires, J ,
a roll-call vote may be demanded, which j i
r will- show how the House membership i ]
* stands on increases for government work- ,
ers. |
I Chairman Byrns brought up the bill in j
the House shortly after noon, the first
item being the appropriation of $75,000 <
. for the salary of the President. For the '
first time In years, the congressional
mileage provision has been passed by the
House without a fight to reduce the rate ,
per mile for representatives' traveling ex- \
penset. Several economists in the House ;
who w?re on hand today to oppose the
mileage section were surprised to learn .
the House had provided itself mileage j
Tuesday afternoon without a word of debate.
i
Flea for White House Laborers. j
Representative Dill of Washington J
- .offered an amendment to increase the j
%>ay of three laborers at the White 1
House from S720 to 1840. i
C^hairman Byrns replied that no re- \
quests for increases had come from the j
' White House. The laborers in question
y' Srill get a 10 per cent increase for the i
. next year by the general horizontal <
V~ raise provided by section 6 of the bill. 1
Ji "Laborers in government employ ?
: here," said Mr. Byrns, "receive more
than laborers In other localities. They
get holidays and sick leave, which is
better than they get elsewhere."
Representative Dill's amendment was
defeated. 1
Holds $720 Not Living- Wage.
Representative Gill of Washington en- j
dea^ored to prevent the creation of a |
pew messenger position at $720 in one j
of the departments, declaring that the .
salary was not a living wage. Represen- ,
tative Mann of Illinois called his atten- ]
tion to employee of the House of Repre- j
sen tali ves at $729 a year, who seemed ,
to be satisfied with their jobs. Repre- ; 4
. sentative Cooper of Wisconsin replied to i i
Mr. Mann that employes around the j
? Capitol can go home and engage in other J
employments in the recess of Congress j
, and at the same time draw tHelr pay t
frojn the United States government. j
"T am told that some of these sixty- 1
dollar-a-rnonth' salaries were estab- i
' lished before the war," said Mr. Cooper, 1
"and in that time the cost of living has j 1
Increased 40 per cent. It is Just as if j 1
we reduced their salaries 40 per cent; j 2
exactly like giving a man $3??0 a year. |1
less than a dollar a day. This is the j <
richest government ever known Tt Ik i
immaterial what private employers do; ' j
it i* the duty of the United States to i
make itself a model employer and not i
-to pay starvation wages in Washing- :
ton,"" 1
DECORATED U-BOAT CREW.
One of Last Acts of Francis Joseph ,
L Was to Honor Deutschland's Hen.
iiRKMKN, jLiecember 12. 6 p.m.. via '
Loiidon, December 14, 8:42 a.m.?One of '
B Emperor Francis Joseph's last acts, it
V was announced today, was to award !
W medals and orders to each member of j
B the crew of the merchant submarine <
t>eut?chland. Capt. Kocnig receives
W the Konitur Cross, and the officers and .
f) members of the crew, gold or silver i
l> crosses of the Francis Joseph Order. '
I ! The emperor also decorated I>r. Alfred
I Eohrnann, president of the board of dl
B rectors of the Ocean Navigation Com- j
B pany. and 'apt. Friedrieh Hlosch. ''apt.
liirisch Is commander of the North (Jer^B
man Eioyd liner Neckar. interned at j
^B riailimore. He supervised the depar^fl
ture of the Peutschland after its tirst
^B trip to the United States.
$50,000 TO START ARMORY.
H Public Buildings Bill Hay Be Passed
at This Session.
House leaders today agreed upon a
program of legislation which will per
mlt an attempt to pass the public
buildings bill at the present session.
The bill contains an item of $50,000.
;which is tin* first installment proposed
^B on the $5 000,000 necessary to build an
adequate National Guard armory In the
district of Columbia. The bill proB
' ides for the armory in exactly the way
that local liational guardsmen wish. In
order to assure an easy road for the
B public buildings bill a special rule will
be brought into the Ityuee at.the proper
R time.
FROVfDES A PUBLIC
BAKERYjNCAPITAL
Bill by Representative Young
Proposes Plant Here to
Cost $50,000.
ALSO WANTS FLOUR MILL
Designed to throw the searchlights
upon present prices of wheat and bread,
two bills were this afternoon introduced
in the House by Representative Young
of North Dakota. One of the hills provides
for the establishment of a municipal
bakery for the city of Washington
and the other for the installation of an
experimental flour mill and chemical and
baking laboratories at the Department of
Agriculture. Mr. Young declares that
the big leaks which are responsible for
the present exorbitant prices occur in
the grading of the wheat and in the big
profits demanded by the bakers of the
country.
The bill for the municipal bakery in
the District provides that the District
Commissioners be instructed by Congress
to construct such an enterprise
out of an appropriation of $50,000. and
thereafter to sell bread made there at
such a price as will realize a reasonable
interest upon the investment. Annual
reports upon the. information obtained
in the running of the bakery
are to be made to Congress and to the
Secretary of Agriculture and the federal
trade commission.
Predicts Five-Cent Bread.
**I am sure that such a bakery could
sell bread to the local consumers at 5
cents a loaf, or less," said Mr. Young.
"It is my firm conviction that action
along the lines proposed m these bills
is what is needed, instead of the embargo
legislation, about which we hear
the bakers shouting so loudly.
"The demand for an embargo on the part
of the bakers is voiced merely in an effort
to cover their present exorbitant
charge of 6 cents a loaf. They merely
want to take the minds of the public off
their own profits. It works out on the
same principle as a crook yelling "Stop
thief!' when making his own get-away.
The crowd starts looking for the other
fellow."
Mr. Young went on to point out that
bakers had charged the nal rate oi 6
cents a loaf of bread when wheat was
selling at 40 cents a bushel.
"Either they should have dropped
their prices at that time to 4 cents a
loaf," he said, "or they should mainLain
their fiat rate at the present time
and be satisfied with a smaller profit
than they are accustomed to. And I
(irmly believe that having put the price
up to 6 and even 7 cents a loaf under
the cry of 'embargo,' they propose to
keep it there after the war is over, j
My bills put it up to the bakers to
:ome to Congress and show their hand j
md why the present prices are neces- |
wiry." I
n support of the bill for the estabishment
of a municipal bakery. Mr. |
fcouog states that bread is cheaper in ,
.fondon than In any of the American j
titles, in spite of the fact that it is j
ocated farther away from the wheat
ields.
"A recent dispatch from London;
juotes bread at 21 cents per loaf, bfit a
oaf of bread in England weighs sixtyfour
ounces, and is sold in quarter
loaves, or in other words, for 5 cents
md a farthing for sixteen ounces," he
said. "In our money we could not make
the change, but it would be the same as
cents for a full avoirdupois pound
vt oreara containing sixteen ounces,
rhis is the same as one-third of a cent
per ounce. Even before the war started
American bakers were charging
more than that, or 5 cents for a twelve?unce
loaf, and they now charge 6 cents
for a twelve-ounce loaf, or one-half
cent per ounce."
925,000 for Flour Mill.
The other bill introduced by Mr.
IToung, providing for the experimental
Sour mill and chemical and baking
laboratories at the Department of
Agriculture, asks an appropriation of
525,000. While Mr. Young was a member
of the North Dakota legislature he
secured the passage of the Young act,
which provided for the installation of
similar experimental apparatus for the
\Torth Dakota Agricultural College. Experiments
there during this crop year
demonstrate that both the producers
ind the consumers have been fleeced by
crooked grading.
In regard to the bill Mr. Young said:
"The bakers point to the high quotaJon
for wheat, at times upward of $2
>er bushel. But those quotations are
for No. l northern wheat. Very little
A that kind of wheat was prouueed in
.he country this year, and the farmers
have been paid around $1.00 per bushel
jy reason of a crooked system of
itandards for grading. Experiments at
the North Dakota Agricultural College,
conducted by Dr. Ladd, show that this
wheat sold by the farmers at prices
iround $1 makes excellent hour, and
It has been demonstrated that flour
made from this very wheat Is being
sold by the millers to supply their best
trade.
"We don't want an embargo," concluded
Mr. Young; "that will do more
harm than good. We want the searchlight
turned upon the rase;.Is who do
the grading, and who gamble with the
irr&in. at the great exchanges, and the
long-fingered bakers who were charging
before the war began more than
is now charged during war times in the
belligerent countries. '
George ft. Horwitz Dies.
PHILADELPHIA, December 14.?
George Qulntard Horwitz, a leading
lawyer of this city, died at; his home
here todav. after an illn*>?K of nnlv
thre* day a. He was the son of the
late Phineas J. Horwltz, formerly surgeon
general of the United States Navy.
Mr. Horwitz was a founder and a director
of the Alumni Association of the
University of Pennsylvania. He was
forty-eight years old and uas born in
Washington, D. C.
Mischa Elman Hart in Crash.
NKW YORK. December 14.?Mischa
Elman, noted violinist, was injured, although
not seriously, today, when a
taxicab in which he was riding collided
with a street car. His scalp was
cut in two places by flying glass and
he was taken to a hospital to have the
wounds 'dressed. Elman's hands escaped
injury, but his brother said he
feared the accident would compel the
violinist to cancel engagements for
perhaps a mouth.
Gen. Gourand to Go to Morocco.
PA 1118, December 13.?Gen. H. J. 13.
(iouraud, who was in'Command of the
French expeditionary force at the Dardanelles,
but was wounded and invalided
home, has been appointed to succeed
Gen. Lyautey asL French resident,
general in Morocco, jm
BRIAND IS GIVEN
CONFIDENCE VOTE
New French Ministry, Despite
Criticisms, to Have Deputies'
Support.
(THINKS PEACE OFFER TRAP
I H ?
PARIS, December 14.?The chambei
of deputies, after a lengthy debate lasl
j night, registered its confidence in the
government by a vote of 314 to 165. The
i previous vote of confidence ? that ol
| last Thursday?was 344 to 160. That a
; number of the deputies were dissatisfied
with the new minister and thf
present policy of the government in the
: conduct of the \vap was evidenced by
' speeches mad". Premier Briand, referring
to the tenacious effort to overthrow
the government, said:
"If you think that a man. despite the
sincerity of his acts, has not surllciently
met the situation and that he must
be replaced, you can do it. But you
j have no right to do it without rettee|
tion or by induction at a moment when
the fate of the government is at stake.
When you tell the government to reorganize
the high command and restrict
Itself, and the government has realized
its promises made in these respects.
no one has the right to act with
premeditated design, especially when
your resolutions were registered in a
vote of confidence hardly a week ago."
Chamber Cold at Opening'.
The opening paragraphs of Premier
Briand's speech were received coldly
by the chamber, which, however, warmed
to the speaker as he proceeded.
There was marked applause when the
premier referred to Chancellor von
Bethmann-Hollweg's peace proposal as
a trap, and warned the country not to
he deceived. The announcement that
the government proposed to restrict the
liquor traffic was also received with
much approval.
Premier Briand warned the country
to beware of France's enemies. He
added that France would not do less
in the premises than the other "members
of the allied conference.
"I have the duty to place my country
on guard against possible poisoning."
said M. Briand amid applause.
"When a country arms itself to the
teeth, when it seizes men everywhere
in violation of the laws of nations and
enforces labor upon them, I should be
guilty if I did not cry out to rny country,
'.Look out! Take care!'
To Stand by Convention.
"I have the right, in the first place, to
say to our enemies for the hundredth
time, 'The blood is on your hands, not
upon ours.* Not that I doubt the clearsightedness
of my country, but in the
face of these attempts to spread dissension
among the allies I exclaim.
The French republic will not do leas
than the convention!* "
The chamber held a large number of
eputiea who desired to witness the
first appearance of the new cabinet. M.
Bri&nd, instead of reading the declaration
of the program of the reorganized
ministry, outlined it extemporaneously.
The premier said that in secret
session most delicate questions had
been considered. The socialists interrupted
the speaker with cries of "No."
but Paul Deschanel, president of the
chamber, soon succeeded in restoring
order. M. Briand then continued:
'The government is ready for all dis
cussions and all explanations." He referred
to the adoption by the chamber
of a resolution demanding a reorganization
in the conduct of the war, the
constitution of a war committee and
modification in the high command. He
said the war committee would sit permanently
and that it would increase
the production of war necessities.
"No one can say that 1 have ever
been unduly optimistic," said M Briand.
"But today, however, more than ever
we must have the conviction that victory
is certain.
"In a war such as this, in which enlire
nations confront each other, decisive
results cannot be attained rapidly.
Rumanian Army Not Destroyed.
"Jt is true that the valiant Rumanians
have bent under the first shock,
but let us examine the facts more
Closely.
"The Rumanian army has not been destroyed;
it has been reorganized with
the help of the gallant Russian armies.
Tomorrow a new front of from 250 to
300 miles will be formed down there,
for the eastern question is far from being
settled. And if the enemy armies
now fighting against Rumania were
not held there, you must admit, they
j would be employed on some other
I front."
I Premier Briand accompanied his de|
nunciation of the German peace offer
as a trap with an announcement that
I he would ask for increased power
; with which to carry on the war. At
| the same time the premier promised
that the government would not undertake
any scheme of national mobilization.
such as that involved in the German
home army plan.
"Evidently," said the premier, "recent
developments are serious, but it is
necessary to recall what lias happened
in 1918. After eight months it is not a
German, but a French victory which,
in truth, has been inscribed on French
flags." The premier referred to the
French success at Verdun and the
gains made on the Soirime. and derided
Germany for its claim of victory while
it was taking such measures as what
he termed the militarising of the entiro
population.
The chamber applauded unanimously
when he affirmed that the war government
of France would not follow the
policy of Germany. He asked, however.
for power to regulate all questions
concerning the national defense,
including the possibility of requisition,
but said that if the latter step was
considered necessary it would not be
carried out inconsiderately.
More Intense Next Snrintr.
Premier Rriand expressed the certainty
that some of the measures taken
by Germany have behind them the object
of intensifying the war next spring,
when, lie said, she will have stronger
armies to face. He warned France to
be prepared for these efforts and to
have confidence in the final outcome.
Then he turned to a discussion of the
German peace proposal.
"It is after having proclaimed its
victory," he said, "while at the same
time makitig new efforts to gain it that
(Continued on Sixteenth Page.)
Conservation
of Paper
Kv<-ry citizen Is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper Is wasted.
Demand from every elerdt that any .
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund.
Call Malh <926 and ask ' for the
nearest public school ta your home
and the ,oW.n?i^;wlH;V-sent for.l
I
B
i
i
i
THE 1
SENATE TAKES UP
DISTRICT "DRY" BILL!
i
1
Begins Consideration Immediately
After Adoption of Im- ,
migration Measure.
ITS PASSAGE LOOKED FOR
On motion of Senator Sheppard of;
Texas the District prohibition bill was}
taken up for consideration in the Sen- I
ate today, immediately following the j
passage of the immigration bill. It be'
came the unfinished business of the
j Senate, and unless displaced by a moI
tion to take up other business will be
j kept before the Senate until it has been j .
| disposed of. Senator Sheppard express- j "
*ju ma cumiuence in tne passage ol the j
bill.
Senator Sheppard offered a number of .
amendments to still further perfect the ]
measure. i 1
. t
Amendments to Bill. s
Senator Sheppard of Te*tis. in charge (
of the District prohibition bill, introduced
late yesterday afternoon further 1
amendments to perfect the measure, j 1
One proposed amendment would limit1*
the amount of liquor which a man j <
may have in his possession for per- j
sonal use. This amendment is, in part, j t
as follows: ij
"No person shall, nor shall more than \5
one member of a family occupying the!^
same house, have in his possession, re- ; j
ceive or accept delivery, oftener than :
once a month, from any railroad, ' j
steamboat or express company or from i ,
any person, any intoxicating liquors in 11
excess of one quart of distilled liquor i '
in a single container, or one gallon j '
of beer, or one gallon of wine, except I'
as herein otherwise provided." > *
Provision is made for a record of
all shipments to persons in the Dis- {
trict, and this record must be filed with 1
the District Commissioners once a j f
month. j 1
Another amendment is designed to j
throw further restrictions about the 1
export of grain alcohol which is rnanti- |
factured in the District. The proposed j 1
law will still permit the manufacture j?
| of grain alcohol, if it is not to be used j
for beverage purposes. The amend- j?
ment now proposed would compel the ;
1 m.inufactiirer to keen a nermanent i'
record of all sales and shipments of [t
! alcoholic liquor, and provides that no 1
i alcohol shall be shipped to any pui-.J
chaser until that purchaser shall have
j signed an affidavit that the alcoholic
liquors so purchased are not to be !
sold or used for beverage purposes.
Liquor for Diplomats.
Senator Wadsworth of New York
asked how much liquor or wine the J
foreign diplomats would be allowed to
have in a month.
'They are allowed to have five gal- j
Ions," replied Senator Shep-pard. Sena- j
tor Penrose of Pennsylvania asked i
i 1
SAY IN CONGKESS.
Senate i /
Met at noon.
. Passed immigration bill by a vote
of 64 to 7.
Interstate commerce committee
decided to hold further, hearings
on President Wilson's railroad
legislative recomxrjendations
after the' holidays.
Resumed consideration of bill to
prohibit manufacture and sale of
! liquor in the District of Columbia.
Houses
Met at noon.
Debated legislative, judicial and
executive appropriation bill.
House leaders agreed to Christmas
recess from December .22 to
. January 2.
SJEW PRESIDENT PRO TEM1
"Why are the foreigners conceded to
nave a greater capacity than natives?"
"Because foreigners are more accustomed
to daily consumption of liquor,"
replied Senator Sheppard.
"Why not have some mercy on the
native citizen who is also accustomed
to the daily use of liquor?" asked
Senator Penrose.
"Ycu say your hill Is for humanity,"
nterrupted Senator Martine of New
Jersey. "Why don't you extend your
h'umanitarism to the diplomats?" Sentor
Sheppard cpplied, "We have no
jurisdiction over them."
3,921,869 GERMANS
LOST IN WAR, IS CLAIM
LONDON", December 14.?The total
3erman casualties, excluding thos? in
he naval and colonial services, reportid
in the German official lists for November,
says a British official- statenent,
were 166 176 officers and m.n,
naking the total German losses in kill?d,
wounded and missing since the war
jroke out, 3,921,869.
GETS ONE W. VA. VOTE.
President Given Single Elector on
Final Count.
CHARLESTON, W. Va'. December 14.
?Although Charles E. Hughes, repubican
nominee for President, carried
West Virginia by a plurality of 2,721.
he official count, nearly completed,
shows that President Wilson will receive
one electoral .vote from the state.
Col. S. A. Scott, republican elector,
vho was placed on the ticket following
.he resignation of J. W. Dawson, was
lefeated, receiving a smaller vote than
Jrlando Depue, democratic elector.
Complete returns show that woman
suffrage was defeated by a larger malority
than that given the prohibition
amendment when it was ratified in 1912.
\ total of 63,540 votes were cast for
Lhe suffrage amendment and 161,607
tgainst it.
Senator Sheppard offered his amendment,
limiting the amount of liquor,
r>eer or wine which a single family
shall import for personal use in one
nonth. Senator Hitchcock of Nebraska
<aid that Senator Sheppard was attempting
to convert the bill from an
mti-saloon measure into a piece of
mmptuary legislation, dictating to
the people what they shall use in their
>wn homes. He said that Senator Sheppard
had assured the Senate last Frilay
that the bill would not prohibit
personal use of alcoholic beverages.
"F want to restrict the personal use,"
>aid Senator Sheppard.
"I think the senator practically admits
li y statement." replied Senator Hitchjock.
"The bill is changed from a police
regulation to sumptuary regulation of
itizens* rights."
Senator Sheppard said that it had been
.lie C A l->e I ICIRC III |?UIIIUUIUII SKlltS lllrtl
some such law regulating the importation
'or personal use was necessary. He said
such laws had been upheld by the courts.
PKESIBENT GOES SHOPPING.
Buys Christmas Presents With Mrs.
Wilson.
The President and Mrs. Wilson went
Christmas shopping together today for
the first time. Leaving the White
House unexpectedly, they walked in
front of the grounds and stood for a
time looking at the presidential Mag
flying from a flagpole erected on the
White House yesterday. Then they
strolled slowly through the business
section of the city, stopping here and
there to look in show windows. During
their walk they were recognized by
tnany shoppers and Mr. Wilson was
kept busy returning greetings.
Seniors at Columbia Go on Strike.
NEW YORK, December 14.?Declaring
that they are* overworked, the senior
classmen of the Pulitzer School of
Journalism at Columbian University are
on strike. The embryo newspapermen
maintained that during* the past few
weeks they have been asked to do an
excessive amount of study, and when
the director ordered examination tests
jn two successive days this week they
{rebelled'. The faculty of the school is
Considering what steps to take to suppress-the*
rebellion*- ~
.
PORE. 1
COMMITTEE FAVORS
"DR?" AMENDMENT
1 j - } ->->?
I Indorsed by Vote of 12 to 7
j for Its Report to House of
Representatives.
I
iSUFFRAGE IS NOT URGED
The proposed national prohibition
amendment today was ordered favorably
reported to the House by the
judiciary committee oy a vote 01 iz |
to 7.
The proposed universal suffrage j
amendment was ordered reported without
recommendation.
The vote on the suffrage proposal J
was 11 to X. The resolution by Repre- j
tentative Raker would submit tHe so- I
called Susan li. Anthony amendment to ,
the states.
Chairman Webb of the committee
aaid he would not ask for a rule on the
, rohibition resolution until after the
Christmas recess. He will not ask for
any action on the suffrage proposal.
Representative Gard of Ohio, who has
been opposed to suffrage, was chosen to
report it. Representative Carlin of ,
Virginia will report the prohibition pro- !
! posal.
Suffrage Opponents Want Decision. ;
j The reporting of the suffrage proposal J
I was due to the belief of some of its >
I oniu.nt iits that it can he hec.ten nr. the i
floor, and they thought it best to settle i
the issue by bringing it to a direct I
vote in the House.
An effort was made to couple it in I
the voting, as was done at the last
session of Congress, and which resulted i
in both proposals being kept in the i
committee and consideration of them j
postponed indefinitely. The committee
by a large majority, however, voted !
not to do so.
The reporting of the suffrage amendment
was e surprise to its supporters.
The designation of Representative
. Walsh of Massachusetts, an anti:
suffragist, to succeed Representative
Moss of West Virginia as a member >'.
the committee a few days ago was
! generally believed by many suffrage
j leaders to have dealt a death blow to
their chances of having any sort of
suffrage resolution reported this year.
| The Prohibition Amendment. I
j The proposed prohibition amendment,
drawn by Chairman Webb, follows:
Section 1. That the sale, manufac- I
ture Tor sale, transportation for sale j
and importation for sale of intoxicat- i
ing liquors for beverage purposes in i
| the United States and all territories!
j subject to the jurisdiction thereof and j
i ?*pynanon tnereoi are rorever pro- !
! hibited.
| Section 2. That the Congress and the j
states shall have power, independently i
or concurrently, to enforce this article '
by all needful legislation.
The suffrage resolution follows:
Section 1. The right of citizens of I
, the United States to vote shall not be
! denied or abridged by the United States '
I or by any state 011 account of sex.
; Sec:ion 2. Congress shall have power
i by appropriate legislation to enforce
j the provisions of this article.
t
SAYS ENTENTE FLEET
HAS LOST 192 VESSELS
BERLIN", December 13, via wireless
to Sayville.?Including the loss of the
French battleship Suffren, says an
Overseas News Agency statement today.
the total losses of the entente
fleet during the present war have been
192 vessels, including torpedo boats and
submarines, with a total tonnage of
744,600. These figures do not include
special types of vessels, such as auxiliary
grid other craft of the merchant
marine.
The British navy's share of these
losses, says the statement, has been 123
ships and torpedoe boats, totaling
15S#200 tdns: * '
' 3 r; U '* ...
BERUN PEACE NOTE
REACHESCAPITAL
Translation Now Being Made
at State Department for
the President.
TO BE FORWARDED TODAY
The note conveying- the proposal foi
peace by the central powers which th<
United States is to transmit to the en
tentc belligerents arrived during th<
night and was being prepared for ITesiident
Wilson early today.
After reading the German note care
fully Secretary [Lansing said that, whih
there were some differences in translation
when compared with the unofficial
copy, and while the order of arrangement
of some of the paragraph.'
was a little different, there was absolutely
no change in meaning. Mr
Lansing said the note would go forward
to the belligerents presumablj
today and that no decision had beei
reached as to whether the United Stalej
would accompany it with any expression.
Only German Note Arrives.
The German note was the only one t<
i arrive. Nothing has been heard of th<
j communication from Austria, Bulgaria o)
I Turkey, but it was said they would lx
1 forwarded in the same manner withou'
j delay.
j At least one of the European neutral:
here already has sent a dispatch to hi:
i home government asking to be authorizct
; to assure President Wilson of the suppori
i of his government in sending some ex
pression to the entente allies designed tc
influence them to give consideration to th<
offer to discuss peace. There are indications
that some of the other neutrals maj
follow suit.
The German embassy today had no new
at! vices on the situation. a?d the Turk island
Bulgarian representatives were entirely
without any dispalcnes from nonte.
Spanish Ambassador Calls
The Spanish ambassador, Mr. ICiano,
' was an early caller at the State Department
and conferred with Secretary
Lansing. He said he had advices from
Madrid that his government also had
received the German note for transmission
to those entente countries where
it represents-the central powers diplomatically,
and that the note delivere<
there was the same as that cabled ti
the United States.
The Swiss minister. Dr. Hitter, als<
called on Secretary Lansing. His visit
coupled with the fact that one othei
neutral is moving to support the Presi
dent in any effort to secure a consid
elation of peace, led to the belief tlya
some light on the attitude of th
United States toward such a genera,
movement by neutrals was at least bl
inv so'-nded out
The embassies of the entente allies her
today rei.ee ud the vi e \\* that Germai
peace proposals will not be rejected with
out examination, but that the allies, ii
reply, probably will call for a statemen
of proposed terms, so they may not b<
placed in position of unqualifiedly reject
ing peace.
Britain Tries to Make
Rules Less Irksome to
Neutral Nations
LONDON, December 14.?Replying ir
the house of commons today to a question
put by Arthur Lynch, nationalist member
for West Claire, suggesting that many
particulars in the policy of the British
government with regard to the United
States had been of an irritating kind
without any compensation corresponding
to the danger of producing misunderstandings,
Lord Robert Cecil, minister of
blockade, said:
"It unfortunately is inevitable that our
measures shoMld cause inconvenience tc
the citizens of neutral countries. Much
as we regret it. I can only say that, consistently
with the paramount duties of
using our belligerents rights, we have
do: <t and are doing all we can to make
their exercise as little irksome to neutrals
as possible."
FOR HIGH COST INQUIRY.
Borland Resolution for Federal Investigation
Reported Favorably.
The Borland resolution ordering th*
federal trade commission to in - c-s ig.ae
all anrrles of th hi h c st of living
including the producing capacity . f
the United Stat s a d p >ssi le i laLions
of the anti-trust la s. was fa.orably
reported today by the House judiciary
committee.
Montana Woman Tried for Murder.
MISSOULA, Mont., December 14.?
Mrs. Bessie Leigh, a former resident of
Cadmus, Mich., went on trial here today
for the murder of Fred Hoffman,
whom she is accused of having shot
October 4. The shooting occurred in
the sheriff's automobile, in which they
were riding to jail, after Mrs. Leigh
had sworn out a warrant on a charge
of seduction.
Sends "Biar Stick'' to President.
PITTSBURGH, Pa., DetembPr 14.?
President Wilson will receive a large
club-shaped stick of wood from an Oregon
admirer within a few days. The
"big stick." which is of white pine, has
passed through a Pittsburgh express
office, en route to the White House. It
weighs thirty-six pounds, is three and
a half feet long and at one end is one
foot in diameter. It was sent by W. 1?.
Hoe of Orescent, Klamath county. Ore.
t n
' "1
Medal of Honor Men
i
Savers of human life dur- j
! ing the past fiscal year have |
been avvarded gold or silver i
j medals by the Secretary of ;
| the Treasury. Read these j
stories of thrilling rescues,
strong hearts and brave
deeds in The Sunday Star.
- I" 'I'' Ii
'S-- *
NO POSSIBLE BASIS
. FOR PEACE SEEN IN
GERMAN TENDERS
!
|
Terms and Views of Britain
Have Hardened, Press Discussions
Indicate.
; PREMIER LLOYD GEORGE
TO REFER TO QUESTION
|
Appears in Commons Next Tuesday.
Believed Teutons Would Profit
I
by Armistice.
It.r tie* AsfHN'iatetl Pre**.
LONDON, December 14.?irprmany's
peace offer again dominates the mom4
ing newspapers, which print many ?ol^
urnns of press views and interviews in
allied and neutral countries. Special
prominence is given to American div
patches, which are also mentioned appreciatively
in editorials. The terms mi
which reference is made to the Teutonic
' offer show that the views previously
expressed have, if possible, hardened in
! the last twenty-four hours.
tj Premier I.loyd George will refer to
j the speech of the German chancellor
.! before the reichstag when he makes hia
, i statement in the house of commons on
. i Tuesday of next week.
j Andrew Bonar Law. chancellor of the
{ ! exchequer, said in the house of eom
mons this afternoon that no proposals for
y I peace had yet been received by the Brit*
.. | ish government from the central po^ei*.
I i He added that the entente allies required
adequate reparation for the past and adequate
security for the future.
i Would Gain by Armistice.
The view expressed here is that Germany
would have the most to gain from
an armistice owing to recent losses on
various nghting rror^ts ana economic
. stringencies within Teutonic territory.
For that reason the prospect of an ar,
mistice is not regarded with favor
. in London, and the suggestion is advanced
in some quarters that one of the
chief motives prompting the proposal
; was to gain time.
. | "Concerning unofficial reports that one
I of the Teutonic proposals is a return to
, tjie status quo before the war, except as
to the creation of Polish and Lithuanian
> kingdoms, it is said here that this apparently
is impossible from the British
r viewpoint, as it would not provide any
_ compensation to Belgium, whose defense
_ has always been referred to as one of the
t j principal motives of Great Britain in euP
taring the conflict. In the same circles
1 Russia's refusal also is expected of any
L settlement which would leave parts of
Serbia within Teutonic authority, owing
P to the bearing of the Serbian question on
t Russia's entrance into the war.
1 Held Political Maneuver.
j The Times claims that Germany's pro
posals are condemned as a mere political
maneuver everywhere outside the dominions
of the central powers and their allies,
and says that the opinion of the unionist,
liberal, radical and labor parties in Britain
is absolutely agreeci tnai me ?.ferman
note and the chancellor's comment afford
no possible basis of peace.
? "Among the allies and many thoughtful
neutrals," says the Times, "there Is
i a clear perception of the great gulf
, which makes all reconciliation impos.
| sible to us until we have beaten down
| Prussian militarism. Such a view is
' found not least in the chief organs of
i : the American press. Americans underI
stand that we are fighting for principle
. and that a compromise on principles is
I impossible, because they themselves
: fought out a great war of principle."
| Cites Situation of North in 1864.
After cjting the military and moral
i position of the north in 1S64 as a paral
? ' lei to that of the allies today, the Times
j continues:
. I "Peace to us now would he what
J peace would have been to the Amerii
cans then. Now, as then, the question
" is neanng decision, l>ut is not yet de
cided. It is a question of the mastery
; ' between two wholly incompatible views
of right and wrong, of humanity, civi!
lization and law. It does not admit of
' accommodation. It can be settled only
by the defeat of one principle or an,
other. ' *
The Daily News reiterates its pit**
lor a consideration of the German proposal
It says: "There is doubtless -a
certain risk involved in entertaining
proposals lor negotiations at the present
ii: e. but is t ere no ris.c invol :
in a ' 1. nt refus l to even consider tl
possibility of negotiations? Can
allies view with entire indifference i
q; enching of the last spark of do*,..
. among the Germans that their cause
j one of just defense against outrage*
J aggression, and the establishment in m
| challenged predominance in Germany
I tlie brutal jingoism which made th
] war? Can they safely take the stand
j before neutrals convicted, though it ho
merely technically, of continuing wantonly
a struggle which, as Chancellor
1 von Bethmann-Hollweg truly says,
threatens to destroy the material and
intellectual progress of Europe?
j "It is clearly Germany's aim to place
jus exactly in that position. If she sue.
I ceeds there is no doubt she will have
i done us a very grave mischief."
I Also Pleads for Consideration.
The Methodist Times, a largely eircu|
lated weekly, joins in the plea for con|
sideratiou of the offer of the central
' powers. It insists, however, 011 the ne:
cessity of the entente nations vindicating
their pledged word to free Belgium
and Scrbir.. as otherwise the only re
suit vounr i?e a. more giKiiiinc ujmcavai.
"Nevertheless," says this paper, "the
rtllies must treat the German offer
j seriously. They must formulate their
' own terms and plainly show the world
that the end can only come when Ger]
many agrees to a peace absolutely
, guaranteeing the unfettered existence
of little nations."
Sees Deeper Motive.
It would be a profound mistake, the
Manchester Guardian says, to regard
the advance by Germany as "a mere
move in the diplomatic game, and aa
designed not to achieve its ostensible
purpose, but as aiming merely at impressing
neutrals and putting her
enemies in the wrong.
"The thing is much too serious for
that," the Guardian continues. "Germany
is suffering deeply from the war.
as. indeed, is every nation engaged in
it."
Notwithstanding the capture of supplies
in Rumania, this newspaper says,
"grave pressure will continue to be
and is likely to increase." The Guaruian
adds:
"It is unquestionably on Germany's
part a genuine bid tor peace, sad ought
to be so treated by our go vert*
' " |
