te Hist. Society
Taney
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Vol,
No.
FOKSY'III, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, DKCKMHEU 14, 1910.
Four Pages.
Our "Don't Worry" Commission. Wilson because I thought he was the
The Federal Trade Commission j best man of the two."
wobbles between truth and caution in Mr. Loper was born in Rochester,
its discussion of foreign trade conditions j New York, May 26, 1816. During his
published yesterday. It feels com- j earley boyhood and manhood he lol
pelled to admit that we may possibly i lowed the shipbuilding trade during
have a little more competition after the winter and in the summer he sail-
this war is over, but it would like to
have us feel that it will be "some time
after," an indifiniie point in the future,
and therefore a matter fur academic
discussion rather than for immidiatf
action. "High cost of raw materials,
increased taxes, probably higher wages,
capital and material necessary to re
pair wastages of war are expected to
delay the full power of European com
petition," says the commission, and
then proceeds to lay a wet rag upoD
these "expectations" in other ex
pectations of a different kind. "In
their struggle to regain their former
trade," it says, "foreign manufacturers
and producers may be expected to fully
utilize their highly efficient organiza
tions for the promotion and handling
of trade beyond their borders, even
foregoing profits or taking a very low
profit till their costs again become
normal and they have reestablished
their trade."
That is to say, regardless of high
costs and regardless of profits, these
people will enter into a "struggle"
which under the conditions expected
cannot be described as less than des
perate to get back the trade they
have lost. Yet in the same breath,
as it were, the commission tells us
that "competition from foreign in
dustrial combinations, aided by foreign
ship lines and foreign banks and back
ed by foreign governments, may be
even sharper than before the war."
This would be downright funny if it
were not so serious. "May be even
sharper," forsoothl We can imagine
the commission with finger to its lips
and whispering, "Hush don't wake
the baby!" Governments co-operating
with manufacturers and producers, and
banks and transportation companies for
the re-establishment of their trade and
selling goods at cost of production to
that end, driven by inexorable necessity
and yet we are gravely tol;l by this
august but absurd body that compet
ition under these circumstances "may
be" sharper than before the war. We
infer from this that the commission
thinks it barely possble that we shall
have to put on a little more steam
after peace is declared, if we are to
compete successfully, bur. even that
slender possibility U a matter of future
concern, lhese people, it thinks, will
Like their time, They will have great
er reasons for speed than have ever
influenced nations since the world be
gan, but our commission expects them
to play the sluggard. The commission's
argument in behalf of the excellent and
urgent Webb bill defeats itself.
H:la and Hearty After Life Of
100 Years.
The following article taken from the
O'smpia, Washington, Daily Recorder,
is published at the request of some of
our readers who were acquainted with
Mr. Loper, when he lived in this
county.
"Vote, well I should say I did,''
and the rapidly dimming eyes of J. B
Loper, affectionatly known as "grand
pa," Loper, sparkled for a second, his
voice did not quaver once, and his en
thusiasm grew a3 he talced cf politics,
war, and the subjects of the da', but
he never once &ave away the secret
that he was 100 years old the 26'h day
of May.
"I've always been a republican,"
resumed the old gentleman, perhaps
one of the oldest men in the state ol
Washington and no doubt the oldest
man i.i Thurston county, "and I al
ways voted the ticket straight until
t. is election. After some deliberation
I decided to vote for one democrat
and that w Woodnw Wilson. But I
voted clear u. 'n the line for the re
publicans in: r-st j f the way,
"I hove v ;d at 13 . pr sidential
elections ai.d I n nk th first prtsi
d nt that I voted lor vai W. H. H r
fivin, the whig c.mili.t.ite in 18.16
although I am not sure. I
voted for
ed on trading vessels on the great
lakes, principally Lake Ontario. One
of the old gentleman's chief delights
is to tell of his voyages, his fi-hing
trips and the days ol the first steam
boats. Although Mr. Loper did not
fight in the Civil war his reminiscen
ces are clear cf that ptriod and it is
also one of hislavcrite sul jrcts. How
ever unlike many old persons Mr.
Loper delights more in talking of the
situations and problems which are
facing the world at the present time
than the struggles which have taken
place.
"I don't believe anyone knows who
is going to win the war," said the old
gentleman when asked for his opinion.
"Every day my granddaughter
reads the papers to me and sometimes
the Germans are ahead, sometimes the
English are victorious, and," here Mr.
Loper smiled, "sometimes the Mex
icans are ahead."
Mr. Loper lives with his grand
daughter Mrs. J. W. Spence on Ninth
and Pine streets. Mrs. Spence says
that her grandfather is cheerful all i
of the time, his chief worry being that
he is not able to work. His main
enjoyment is being read to and the
first thing he asks for each day is the
daily paper.
"Yes, I like to ride in automobilis,
they are fine," Grandpa Loper re
plied on being asked about his fav
orite relaxation. "I rode over to the
polls to vote and enjoyed my ride very
much. Frorn boats to railway con
trivances everything surely has chang
ed. I can remember the time when
railroad trains were luxuries and cow
they are necessities.
This aged man was able to walk
some distance until recently and he
still walks around the house. He is
able to attend church, and er joys life
apparently as much as one much
younger than he. Last Sunday morn
ing Mr. Loper attended the services
at the First Methodist church to
which faith he became a convert
when 97 years old, or three years ago
"The next place I want to go is
down to the Olympia Shipbuilding
yards and watch them work," and
again he became almost youthful as
he spoke with great vim of the days
when he helped build boats and sail
ed the Great Lakes. "I think it is
wonderful that Olympia has such a
fine industry here and I want to see
them work. For years I worked on
the building of vessels. I could work
jet if I could walk."
Besides following the ship-building
trade Mr. Loper owned farms in the
middle west where he lived.
In appearance Mr. Loper is a kind
ly looking, white-haired old gentleman,
whose blue eyes are especially bright,
whose voice is gentle and he talks with
clear connected sentences. He has
a ready wit, and greets everyone with
a hearty smile. He is fond of fljwers
and his granddaughter endeavors t
keep some for him. The old gentle
man spends most of his time in a
favorite rocking chair.
"I have lived in Olympia for 11
years and I want to live here the rrst
of my life; for I like it and think it
is a beautiful place to live," and the
old man, 100 years and seven months
old, smiled as he rocked constantly
back and forth in his chair never
growing tired of talking of his past
and the live subjects of the day, bu:
always displaying little touches of
pride in the fact that he has enjoyed
this "good old world," as he puts si.
so long.
A Republican Congressman flew
from his home to the Capitol and ar
rived safely. With a Republican ma
juity of only two or three in the
House, no Republican Congressman
should take the risk of creating a
vacancy. L-t the Democrats do the
flying. Palmyra )N. Y.) Journal,
Not Aiding Sufferage Cause.
The women who planned and carri
ed out the spcctular demonstration in
the House while President Wilson was
reading his annual message to Con
gress many have enjoyed the notoriety
the episode gave them, but if they
fancy thai their conduct advanced the
cause of women sufferage they are de
luding themselves. The methods of
the militant sufiragettes in England,
ne'er; the great war came to overshad
ow all other issues have been defend
ed. History has been quoted to prove
that many great reforms in England
wero accomplished ouly after a resort
to violence. But the history of the
United S;ates does not justify such
methods. The Capi'ol police did not
arrest the disturbers of the police of
the House. This deprived them of the
privilege of posing as martyrs.
There are many legitimate ways of
promoting the cause ol woman suffr
age, in addition to using argumeuts
and appeals the advocates have the
moral right to question candidates and
to support or oppose them solely on
the ground ot their attitude toward
suffrage. The average voter, where
there are other momentous questions
involved in an election, may even be
inclined to look upon this style of po
liticiai warfare as proof that thezealous
advocates ol woman sufferage have lit
tle sense of proportion. The iffiirs ol
the nation must be carried on and
when any considerable number of citi
zens admit indifference as to the gen
eral conduct of the government, so
bug as their hobby is takea care of
their attitude has a tendency to exisp
erate the more sober part of the popu
lation. The advocates of a federal sufferage
amendment have no right to harass
President Wilson. They fought him
and his party in the last election. All
the women suffrage states except two
gave him their electorial vote. This
may not mean that these states oppose
the sufferage amendment, but it does
siginfy thit even the women voter!
themselves believe the other national
questions are more important. Nobody
expects the short session of Congress
to give any heed to the sufferage ques
tion. It is understood that-some mem
bers of the nxt Congress pledged
themselves in advance of election to
work fir the sufferage amendment.
They should use all proper tfforts to
comply with thtir promise. Globe
Democrat.
Farmer's Week To Be For Farm Girls and
Boys Too.
The boys and girls of the farm are
to receive especi.l attention at the an
nual Farmers' Week given by the Col
lege of Agriculture cf the University of
Missouri and the State Board of Agri
culture at Columbia the first week in
January. Corn judging and other con
tests will be held. County farm ad
visers are planning to bring many ol
the farm boys and girls with them. The
banks of Kansas City have provided for
the expenses ol seventy boys and girls
from Jackson county to the week.
Investigate The H gher-Ups.
Postmaster General Birleson has ap
pointed a special committee to investi
gate the efficiency ol the post office at
New York, t till conducted under a
Republican postmaster, whom the De
partment has tried unsucc ssful to
dismiss. The press of New Yrk and
the business men of the city objected
to a change. It would be gratifying
not only to the people of N-w York,
but to the iarmers on scores of rural
routes, if someone could have power
to appoint a special committee to in-
vestigate the efficiency of the office
presided ovr by Mr. Burleson. Most
of the iot frkiency in the postal service
today can be traced to the bightrups,
who have had little experience either
iD the P05Ul se,vice or in M 0,her
large enterprise.
Bcal bins are beccmin? the subject
of deep solicitude. Oily the man who
believed in prepareduess are not war
ring. The sam: theory cot.!d be ap
plied to nations. The Rxk Islar.d
(111) Union.
Mr. Wilson and The Tarriff.
Washington is speculating much as
to Mr Wilson's attitude toward the
tariff. The doubt does not arise over
his theories. He long a;'o threw them
overboard, when he declared that
"there is nothinj in the theory of pro
tection and nothing in the theory of
free trade." By signing the frankly
protective tariff on dyes, he admitted
that the protective principle was not
as unconstitutional as the Baltimore
platform declared. The St. Louis plat
form did not reaffirm the Baltimore
d claration as to this fundamental
principles of the D.mocratic party,"
Mr. Wilson proposed a plank that
would have prevented a general pro
tective tariff, following the war, clash
ing with the platform, inconsistent as
it might be with Democratic traditions.
The plank was so altered as to become
meaningless, under cold analysis.
Mr. Wilson's attitude will be purely
a matter of j idgment. Some cf his
rect nt random remarks, coupled with
the soothing assurance from his Federal
Trade Cummision and the views Dr
Pratt expressed in St. Louis, indicate
that he does not expect much com
petition (rem Euiope immediately alter
the close of the war. He seems to
entertain the theory that high taxes,
dismantled industries, ana tne depletion
of the ranks cf labor will be such a
handicap to European production that
Americans need not fear iis competit
ion. In taking this view, he ignores
the conditions following the Napol
eonic wars of which he gave us such a
s'.nkiug discription in his, "A History
ol the American people." He gives
no heed to the remarkable industrail
organization the belligerent nations
have perfected and treats with silence
the results of the investigation by
European nutrals as to trade prepara
tions already made.
But perhaps he sees the danger
more clearly than he fiads it politicl
to admit. His adaptability is well
known. II he new the American mar
kets were to be flooded with European
products, he would doubtless be ready
to urge a general protective tariff on
Congress. The result of the Na
poleonic wars converted even Jefferson
to the protective principles. Buchan
an, before he retired, signed the Mor
rill protective tariff, but it was over
three years too late. Let us hope Mr.
Wilson will be prepared to act prompt
ly. Globe Democrat.
Missouri Shrubs Sent For Egyptian Gar
den. Forty packages of seed f.om orna
mental plants have been sent to Gabri
el Salem, diara of Mehalla Kobra Egypt
by H. F. M ij ir of the department of
horticulture of the University campus
and a year has been spent in their col
lection. One package contained seeds
ol the ivy vines of the famous Columns
Gabriel S-ilem was a student in the
College of Agriculture several years
ago and was known as George J. Salem
He intends to use the seed to beautify
his garden.
Plan Crop Rotation Now.
The evils of the single crop system
are suggested by figures secured by
the Missouri Agricultural Experiment
S ation. After seventeen years of con
tinuous cropping to corn less than
twelve bushels an acre were securrd as
compared witu about fi'teen bushels on
ground that had been planted to corn
wheat, and clover in rotation; and a
bcut filty-four bushels on a rotation;
of corn, oats wheat, clover and two
years of timothy.
A little time spent in carefully plan
ning rotations before beginning the
spring work will pay bigger returns
than the same amount of time spent in
the field.
A good crop rotation should include
(1) a cultivated crop, such as corn,
(2) a humus and nitrogen adding crop
such as rlover cowpeas, or soy beaos,
particularly if they are turned under
and usually (3) a small grain or grass
crop.
Som. of the crops have roots only :
near the surface and others draw their
food from great depths. Sj that the
crops in rotation do n.t wear out the
land as rapidly as a single croD planted
year after year, but no rotations can
build up the soil fertilty or even avoid
wearing out the soil unless the products
are fed on the farm and the manure re
turned to the fields or legumes like
clover cowpeas, cr soy beans are grown
and perhaps turned under to keep up
the nitrcctn std organic matter
in the soil. In some cases it may be
necessary to apply potash or lime.
Non-competing crops should be
chesen instead of crops that will com
pete with one another for the farmer's
time so far as possible. jFor example,
the first cutting of alfalfa may demand
ettention at the same time corn should
be plowed while timothy and clover
coming on later will make less competi
tion. The additional yield of alfalfa
may more than overbalance this difi-
culty and many such considerations
must be balanced against one another
Advises Frankness in Advertising.
"Do not make a mystery of adver
tising" Henry Schott of Chicago, a
well known advertising manager and
agency expert warned recently in
talk before the students of the School
of Journalism of the University of Mis
souri. Come straight out and tell
exactly what you have to sell and give
good plausible reason why buyers
should have the article. Cleverness is
..II tight in writing' adds, but never start
writing on an article with cleverness
rather than truth and sincerity as a
goal." Mr. Schott told of the success
of the yellow pine industry through ad
vertising. Tne industry was gradually
losing its imparlance ar.d capital sts
who were interested in it were seeking
a way to give it life. An advertising
agency was asked to investigate con
ditions and a league of lumber n tn
were formed to exploit the product
Through advertising the industry has
doubled its earning capacity, he said
Do not Plant Tress Deep.
The beginner in tree planting usu
ally sets his trees to deep rather than
too shallow in the relatively heavy soils
of Missouri, J. C. Whitten cf the de
partment of horticulture of the Univer
sity of Missouri says. Young trees
should be selected for planting and
they should be set at the same depth
at which they stood in the nursery.
Trees to the northeast and grow
crocked because of the warm southwest
winds during the growing season. The
tree should be set with the heavier side
to the southwest to avoid this.
The roots should be trimmed so as
not to be crampped and any ragged
wounds taken off.
Peach trees should be pruuned most
severely after planting of any ol the or
chatd fruits. Trim all branches off
ieaving a single whip, then shorten
the wihip to a height of about two and
one half feet. Cherry trees should be
less severely trimmed. If well branch
ed the center of the tree should be cut
out. The Japanese plum tree should
be shaped like the peach. 0;her plum
apple and pear trees having only a
single whip should be treated likewise.
Older tress may be treated like the
cherry with the exception that all bran
ches mar be shortened to one ha'.f or
one third their natural length.
Say State Child Laws Should be Revised.
That the laws of Missouri appljing
to children are inadequate and defect
ive will be the report of the Missouri
Children's Code Commission appoin'ed
by Governor Major in 1915 of which
Dr. Charles Ellwood of the department
of sociology, Manley 0. Hudson ol the
school of la, andliidor Loeb, deia ol
the school of commerce and adrainis
tration of the University of Missouri
are members to the General Assembly
of 1917. The commission advises a
reversion ol the laws for children to in
clude; support of children whose fath
ers having died leaving them destitute
by counties, right of support fcrillegiti
mate children, children's courts enuca
tion and examination of defective
children, greater protection for labor-
ing children, county boards of public
welfare and many other progressive and
Deeded reforms.
British Cabinet Troubles.
The British cannot very well settle
their cabinet troubles in the customary
way. The usual easy method is the
calling of a new election. That is
talked now as it has been at other cri
ses since the war began. But there
are few British statesmen who would be
willing to trust the electors to pass on
the complication of questions that
would effect them, no matter how the
leaders might seek to narrow the issues.
The division seems to be generally on
temporary questions relating to war.
Asquith appears to have most of the
Liberal party le 3ers with him, while
David Lloyd George, whom he made
chancellor of the exchequer eight years
ago and who has been the chief radical
of the United Kingdom, has some of
his oldest and bitterest enemies siding
with him in this crises.
Asquith's resignation seems to have
been prompted by a seuse of dignity
It would be personally humiliating to
head a cabinet and be deprived of
participation in the small council to
conduct the war, the biggest task of
the government. Bonar Law may have
declined the premiership because cf
labor opposition. As colonial secre
tary he has stirred up a hornet's nest
by proposing to import negroes from
Alricatowork on the English docks,
just as they are being used back of
the lines in France. The trade union
ists arc very bitter against him. Lord
Northcliffs's papers have also assailed
Law, although supporting the demands
oi Asquith for the formation of a small
and independent war council. Lloyd
George seems to hesitate about his
ability to form a coalition cabinet that
would satisfy all divisions of sentiment.
In addition to impatience with the
failure "to speed up" the war, there is
much dissatisfaction about the Balkans
about the shortage in shipping, about
the failure to check air raids and about
ihe food regulations. It is even pos
sible that permanent domestic politic
secretly influence some of the critics.
Join romises of personal dignity if not
of principal will be necesarj to a set
tlement cf the cabinet controversy,
but it is j rotable that they will be
made and that there will be no general
election scon. Gl'be Democrat.
Provide Material f;r High School Oebates
In order that the debating teams of
Missouri hih schools may be better
prepared and have a greater range of
material the extension division of the
University of Missouri has gathered and
tabulated a large amount of material
which may be had for transportation
charges only. Among the questions
with which the material deals are: in
dependence of the Philippines, the
minimum wage system, woman suffer
age, recall of judges, arbitration cf
capital and labor disputes, the literacy
tests for immigrants and compulsory
old age insurance.
Brighten Your Home In Winter With Flow
ers.
Your home can be made cheery and
cosy in the winter time with blooming
green bulb plants. Here is the way
they are kept by the horticulture de
partment of the University of Missouri
Place bulbs of Chines: lilies paper
white narcissuses, or hycinth in a shal
low basin of water and support them
with small stones. Let them stand in
th: ( ark for ten dajs a id then bring
them to the light. If begun now they
should bloom early in January.
Carl Vrooman Farmer Week Speaker.
Carl S. Vrooman, a native Missour
ian and assistant Secretary of Agricul
ture, will deliver in address before the
Farmers' Week visitors at Columbia
January 2. Tne week is under the
direction of the College of Agriculture
of the University of Missouri and the
State Board of Agriculture.
The population of Mississippi is
three times as great as that of Rhode
Island. Mississippi polled 86,633
votes Rhode Island polled 86,756
votes.for president this year. Should
Mississppi hive ten electoral votes and
Rhode Island only five. Providence
(R. I.) Journal.
