rr r" . : " '
he Marble Hill Pres
TorrruB 31.CO a. "" H.uriri So(.
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, December rj. iqio.
1 timjXKM.swjuumnKM&z?
He
of
"suit
3 R S
itf$B
B fa t&s&ato h
!!
a well 35 the rest of the year ami we realize that the only way to get it fs to be able to suppl your needs at prices the other fellow can not mule. l"or H
days we have been preparing for this event and now we are reaJy with Thousands of articles that will make suitable presents for your hvcJ one- at pr'es
that can not be duplicated elew here in the county. We are not in business here for jut n short tr.iK. but will probably I)- a ;king for your trade e.irs
from now, so you see we could not afford to promise our customers any tiling we can not live up t We appreciate your favors of the past and intend to
merit your future patronage. In order to make this Holiday .Sale more interesting to our customers we are goiut" to
Give Away Absolutely FREE tho Following Presents:
f Sio.oo Pzesent to the family that tzades most icih us until January I, ioi"
! 7 Sx.So 'Present to the family icith hahv up to i yeaz old that trades most with us until January , IoI
-I S'J.o Pzesent 10 the oldest couple " Sr.oo " " "
.1 Si. oo l)zcscnt each to the oldest man and lady zeho calls at our stoze hefoze above date
Ladies' and Children's Cioaks
We nave had Mre4iKlally firK" mi T so fur this (nil, but iii
know it t '.noisily rtlui bef a ri( in. w- may rMsuib!y rv
trt nM. vf weathrr hefor many day Your w iff and i l.ildrrrt
iotM t pfovdil with uini' of iHif erviernhl" and em-
ff14e rs fcfnfe lle Iwtd ml,er ! aviits - nd thrrt is no
r',M4 why thry ! mki 0.4 fr-f'f we havr ahnewt niv sue and
any prnrd itrnmt In this tine you c:ull ih fur.
Set this big line of Real Bargains before you buy. They
ire eyeopeners.
Men and Boys' Hats and Caps
tUf oer In tht rowiity k4 hkr the mirth tar tkr tu U
wft in corn f art wuh our inw of t!o We en fli
any brad aoy pe, inUi iH nny u.ste m Unit or ('.up We
fe do Kbine In (hi hfw Coin- itl and see how bright Utr
Pratt's and International Stock Foods
an! rrfiiif rmmiir at t srim tt t!l jnu to
k4 fiM yntt ? k f the tttt V vnhml4 ' ( utrri
Gloves
Gloves
! -) kn that orr i k-tx' '"itnl"-J a lMir
Tlvy nir a rw- uy Anyt;f cm do trOrr t fi m acv hue if
liirir us! nrr m nitsihiBHi ainl tf il.r tu i l;'-t nui
rcfci li'n. otutiy fcr uvotttfh in a fr )ntt!r tiw- tt.rmi:h
luottitity lt turn off our ofk nilJit. ! jy fot livn tu iH-ni
thrill wxrtal Think of tht from a lummv stamtjioint
ami thro rtwtw in and Wt t tit tm out iih acy kind you kirt.
Overcoats
Overcoats
We tlx Urt Sitvk and grratr( arity of 0cmat on
hainl) frr Uight any whi In order to Hi.h thr?
is init are offrmv ial uuhh-eniciit in the ay of tnw
priT to our mtomr JUry at rar bargain c thnu
Irish Potatoes $160 per bushel
We H iy you $1 !0 prr buhrl for t!'l. piokl Irish ttator.
Hrinit tin-in in
Old Santa Clans
1 ! Ui JJ(LLV
will arrhe at our store with his pack of toys
and jjcmkI things fur the children in a few days.
We hope to he able to announce the exact date
of his arrival at our store in this space net
week and hope you will come to 5ee him for he
is bringing a bigger load of good things than he
has eer left with us before.
Millinery
Millinery
We havf wild ,i iii.ifiiit.oth stock of J.idiiV ,.uu -'..si frt-h Mais
a ad C-i thi" f ill. (tut v- liave a few nut, u -: . i-; ! i; - iUm left
iitid in ordT to cU-an out the.stiK'k entirely ere tVnti; tiu'tti
A t and H e I o w C o s t
!;.f w.i.rt t.ift loiij; at tin- priii ve mi- it.;il ir.n on tlir'.ii. so if
you wunt one v;ui hoiiiii not war
Shoes
Shoes
We nav! alavs trieii to ! aWe lo sut-plv oiir cuMouitT!'' with
;'iitlii!ii.' tl'fv iht desire ai tl Shoe line from the moM drfssv
vo tin- .neci in r .'ivcI.jn snot's, and now have ,1 laaVr
stin k ti.an ever J'fire. so ve feel Mir- that w- ran ::!! yi-,r w ;i r;t ?
inor sa!if,'tril than cer Save a !or 1 ;;! : s,
your feet warm aini .iry. thea-hy ii-oiion,i7ii,t: ,,n i s..v- money on
onr vho- lull I'V Imviiit from w. tf.u si in; u'iie We
also earry an wpiii.naliy larjje line of ;he f, .::...: Ba!!' and
' f'o:ilse e" hriimls ef ruM-er footwear atnl we are li.-.K:. ei'e--la! --v f
a'lraetl'.t J, Iff v on (hern Si-e how tow we Mrea ;i i 'i,-e le- C
firt- vou tuv . S
Paints
Paints
W t alt -
I- i)-.ii'e a ha
vear
o,,!.tivk at laM ( ar " J
it!1! r n.-e ,n this enMt;
E I - Groceries
Groceries
lid you ever stop to think that there is lot- of d;!Vre!i.-e in
SriKiTie Many tnerehants keep such fimxis on hund until they
are stale iihsolutely unfit for human U-mfcs to eat. Our stm k is
changing every week no week passes that we fa.i :.- re,-e; a
larce consiiiunient of fresh nvenes therefore we never hesitate
to guarantee such Jixh!s to In1 as fresh as can he found in the
market
Trunks, Suitcases and Grips
We have a few left that we are offenns at a hare a
and see us hefore vou huv
t'oitie m
Coal Oil, per gallon during this Sale only SV
4 'Pounds of Sugaz for Si.ce with eeery Sn.oo purchase
Dress Goods
Dress Goods
"Talk cheap," o are the prier on our entire larjje tto k of
Drrsa Go! We rail not duplieate the oU in the market at
the rtHTS we are oellinM thi lot of K hut we are tfvitm our
euiH.Miier the benefit of thee tan;.in and inakuiiJ new friends
by doinjj v If ou don t believe we have the atnl at prices
yon ran t dedicate rlm'where. call an.1 Ut ua show you W e ore
in dead earnest and mean to how you thai we are
Jewelry!
Jewelry!
Ve h ive jitht reteiveil an exceptionally l.trgc and fine line of
Jewelry suil.ihle for I'hristiiias pre-nts for any member of your
family ami at any prii-e that suit you Let us show you the-e
ieautifnl nr i. e. they will p't . vn
Children's Caps and Sweaters
Our stock is larce and eotnplete and we can -aakt vo
ones comfortable this winter for vtrv httie m .:) v i' .
N'heve this, come in and see our hi; line
h'.tle
don't
Clothing
Clothine;
We have the larv!e: st.u k of lso;hi;i: ta tae ,
ofh tint; the inittre line at the lowest possible pt
'V a.
Your gifts selected from our wonderful collection will be sure to bring a real happy Christmas to your loved ones, because here vou ma chHe from the
most extensile variety of new, useful merchandise and be absolutely assured of receiving the greatest values at low prices unequaied an w here. We extend
to ou a hearty Invitation to come and inspect our superb displays-your xvill be well worth your while! Bring us your rv.iltry and pndiue of all
kinds. We will give you tcp prices for it.
Tuyliir Evllirgioiii e,
