Cape Norma! School
Caps Girardeau, ifo
rvrs
UNE
H H
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU.
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. i
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV
THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU MISSOURI, DECEMBER 14. 1916.
NUMBER 49
WJ
1 In j
SENATE DEFEATS
ANTI-JAP CLAUSE
BY 41 TO 21 VOTE
Immigration Measure Will
be Voted Upon Today,
Senators Believe.
ACTION IS PLEASING
TO PRESIDENT WILSON
House Decides to Abandon Alas
kan Fisheries for This
Session.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
Washington, Dec. If.. Efforts of the
Pacific Coast Senators to amend the
Immigration Bill to make it solve the
Japanese problem, was voted down
this afternoon. The way now seems
dear for a vote on the bill tomorrow.
The amendment, excluding the Jap
anese and all Asiatics from the United
States, was defeated by a vote of 41
to 21 this afternoon. Had this clause
been incorporated into the measure, all
Japanese now living in tfie United
States, who were admitted under the;These qualifications could be applied
existing treaty and the "gentlemen's
agreement," would have been corn
polled to leave the country.
An amendment was adopted to the
bill today, shutting out all those who
come to the country to seek temporary
employment. Canadian laborers, how
ever, are permitted to enter temporari
ly for the purpose of helping to harv
est the American crops along the bor
der. The hope of passing the bill to regu
late the Alaskan fisheries at this ses sion
of Congress, was abandoned to
night when the House failed to make
any progress in a debate on the mea
sure. The House adjourned without
making any progress, and leaders an
nounced the measure would be drop
ped for the present session.
The Senate's action, is settling the
Japanese question, pleased President
Wilson, who has been confronted with
this question every time Congress con
vened. The overwhelming defeat of
the Japanese clause, it is said, will put
an end to the agitation, at least for the
time being.
l.ieilll ;".ejtT ruiet..i m i
MERCURY IT SLIGHTLY j
The thermometer rose early this
morning when a light snow began fall
ing. A 5 o'clock the mercury showed
20 degrees above zero. "Earlier in the
evening the temperature was slightly J
lower than in the morning hours. A !
thermometer at the police station
showed a temperature of 18 degrees at j p0sed upon five big packing companies ' S00fl liquor in the county are the pro
7 o'clock yesterday evening. j bv the Supreme Court of the State j hibition leaders, the majority of whom
' , ,t a j o..' ,...!. t.- Feb. 9. 1013. The companies took an i buy it by the wholesale and store it in
io, o- '""
had predicted a drop m the tempera-1
ine un.w. ouu
ture for 'Ihnrsciay. ine snow nau
been predicted for Wedneslay morn-j0f
inc. hut was delayed 24 hours.
r i
Wednesday morning the tempera
ture varied in the different parts of
the city. It is said that in the out
skirts the mercury fell to 12 degrees,
while the thermometer in front of the
St. Charles drug store at 6 o'clock in
the morning, degistered about 20 de
grees. ST. CLAIR COUNTY APPARENTLY
DEFEATS BOND COMPROMISE
Osceola, Mo., Dec. 13. Reports
reaching here today indicate that St.
Clair County voted down yesterday the
proposal to reduce its indebtedness to
!?330,000 by which the old railroad
bond fight would be settled. The bonds
the debts on which have been growing
larger and larger each year, were is-.
sued in 1871 to aid the promoters of
the Tebo & Neosho Railroad. It was
not built, but the bonds have gone,
on until now the holders claim a total
of about $4,000,000. This is about the
assessed valuation of the entire coun
ty. Eastern holders of the bonds recent
ly agreed to the compromise for $630,
000, and the election was held yester
day to vote new bonds for that amount.
The reports here show that Appleton
Township, the largest in th county,
cast its vtite tftTTdTy tirainsVthe compromise.
CAPE WILL MAKE
CONCERTED FIGHT
FOR HUGE PLANT
$10,000,000 Armour Esta
blishment May be Located
Here, is Belief.
COMMERICAL CLUB TO
DISCUSS IT TONIGHT
Congressman Russell is Lending!
His Assistance to Business
Men.
Every business and professional man
in the city is expected to attend a
meeting to be held this evening at the
Commercial Club to suggest how Cape
Girardeau can land the big Govern
ment armor plant, a 10,000,000 en
terprise. A special board was apjioint
ed at the last session of Congress to
determine the location for this plant.
According to the specifications of j
the act authorizing the establishment
of this plant, it must bo at least 200
miles in the interior of the country
and shall not be near a large city
to Cape Girardeau, and for these rea-
sons it is hoped that the plant can be
landed for the Cape. It is said that
Cairo, 111., is about the strongest com
petitive bidder for the institution Cape
Girardeau has to fight.
The board appointed to find a suit
able location for the plant will not
visit the towns that make a bid for
it. The selection will merely be made
from the briefs and reports sent in by
the representatives of all cities and I
town, that are asking for the institu
tion. Samuel F. Carter, president of
the Commercial Club, was yesterday
morning so informed by Congressman
Russell. He advised the city to get j
busy immediately and work hard fori
the plan.
At tonight's meeting there will be a
discussion of the plans of the Com-
mut'aiv,uum u,clw,"" trtl- lu
iiwKsai'P .avrann-empnts -irp helno-
m.. u v i, r nri. :
, " ,v v . , ; their home, present. Thev claimed
made for the change in the staff of! J
officers of the club, who are to bethey attended our picnics to .see the
installed at the regular meeting on the j Potato race and hear the speeches, but
first Friday of next month. Sugges- j theV always bit half moons in the
tions as to increasing business in the
Cape will be heard and discussed.
Congressman Russell is furnishing
! the Commercial Club with all the in-
formation that he can obtain as to
what methods this city must pursue, j
He is eounted on to heln the Cane in :
i its appeal to to Government. j
: did almost consume us.
3 PACKING FIRMS TO The Men's Club members, like a
PAY $23,000 FINESI5reut niany of the regular members
jof the German-American Alliance, at-
Je.Terson City. Dec. 13. Attorney- I tended the meetings of the organiza-
General Barker stated today that he
i could not give out anv definite infor- 1
' mation as to the payment of fines im-1
- ..... .We
appeal to the United States Supreme
yestmlay they dismisscd ;
thjs appeal, which leaves the mandate
the Missouri court standing. The
I follow in rr five eomuanies were fined
---- -
$25,000 each: Swift & Co., Armour &
Co., St. Louis Dressed Beef and Provi
sion Company, Hammond Packing Co.,
and Nelson, Morris & Co.
The St. Louis company no logger is
in existence and perhaps one of the
other companies has been absorbed.
The State was not able to collect
some of the fines imposed by the Su
preme Court, although most of the
fines were paid. The Attorney-General
said that the State had not en
tered into "any agreement as to the
dismissal of the appeals in the United
States Supreme Court, but he did not
know at this time what arrangements
would be made about paying the fines.
He is desirous of collecting all the
fines and interest thereon from the
ate cf he decree of the Missouri Su
preme Court. These suits were insti
tuted by Gov. Major while he was At
torney General and were based on vio
lations of the anti-trust and anti-combine
laws.
DYER ASKS NEGRO SHAFT
Washington, Dec. 13. Representa
tive Dyer of St. Louis yesterday intro
duced a bill providing for the erec
tion in Washington of a $100,000
monument to the dead negro soldiers
and sailors who lost their lives in the
service of their country.
- , - - ' i ,
, 1 t; - . rate . llH 1 JL?
Part f tli- i!imit'iiie crowd that
l)eir jippH'-erif ti The Japanese throne,
tliriii'.- f liis ancestors.
GERMAN-AMERICANS
CONSUMED BY DRYS
Alliance Official Explains How
Prohibitionits Put Organiza
tion Oat of Bf siness.
The announcement in The Tribune
yesterday that the German-American !
Alliance had decided to disband, came i
as a distinct surprise to many of the
organization's members. j
The statement of
prohibitionists
had been consumed by the Men's Club,
is
partially correct, an official of the
defunct organization stated yesterday.
Ke said:
"Here is the way tl-.e prohibitionists
! consumed is: E.ery time we gave
picnic thre were a number of these
Men's Club members, who ordinarily
drink their liquor in the cellars of
sandwiches and drank our beer. So
many members of the Men's Club are
men with great capacities, both as eat
ers and drinkers.
"When they got out into the woods,
away from their friends, they were
ike camels preparing lor a long
drouth. In this way, the Men's Club
tion only wnen tney were assured j
"some filling would be on tap.
It is
said that some of the best .judges of
their cellars. One of the dry cam-
their cellars. One of
Paign orators, who took
an active part
in the county option election two years putting the chickens to roost, said
ago, bought a quart of whiskey each J Mrs. Short.
day from a C::pe saloon, which was j "I stoppe1 instantly, and when I re
consumed by the drys while thoy were j alized what I had done, I felt a great
storming the colnty. I deal worse over the incident than the
dog did. I was told that the collie
W. C. U. ELECT OFFICERS
Robert Zimmer is Chosen President for
One Year.
At the meeting of the Western
Catholic Union at St. Mary's Hall last
night, the officers for the ensuing
year were elected. Reports of the va
rious committees were read and ac
cepted. Robert Zimmer was elected presi
dent; Joseph Schonhoff, vice president;
Henry Scherf, financial secretary;
Frank Hohler, recording secretary;
Anton Deinkim, treasurer, and Tony
Hohler, marshal. The following five
men were elected trustees: Charles
sWn. Josenh Selle. Albert Wibben -
meycr, John Schonhoff and Louis
Kohlfeld. The newly-elected officers
will be installed at the next regular
monthly meeting.
HARVEY JONES IS A PAPA.
Stork Brings Druggist Ten-Pound
Daughter for Xmw Present.
Harvey Jones, clerk in the St. diar
ies drug store, is a papa, and t pwatl
one at that. The first visit of tk
JAPANESE HONOR THEIR CROWN
iivsernhlttl in Tokyo recently whrn
Tliw people are vrititiug l ' the
Collie Dog Puts
Chicks to Roostj
For Its Mistress
Manning Short's Canine,
Caught Fondling a Pullet,
T Whinrwrl hv Inhn Rull
Who Later Regrets It.
A collie dog that knows when chick-
! tns ought to go to roost and insists
ifVi.it fhf- vtii' u-hen thiv hffliine
' comos, is ownexl by Manning Short,
j the letter canier, who lives at ll.'n
j Xorth .Boulevard. '
( xne og became custodian of the
; hen coop by watching Mrs. Short care
for them last summer. The collie soon
; realized that she could be of assist
! auce to her mistress and she proved
I th-it sh was riM
, uiat sii was n..e.
Jo.'in Bull, the street car man, who
lives next door to the Shorts, yester
day related to The Tribune the story
of the collie and the. chickens. Mr.
Bull said:
"I wts at home the other evening
reading when I heard a commotion
among Mr. Short's chickens. I looked
out of the window and saw the dog.
She appeared to be trying to extermi
nate the Short flock, and I hurried
out to rescue the hens.
"I grabbed a switch as I entered the
hen house, and when I found the col
lie on top of a hen, I iave the dog
! several keen cuts with the branch.
While 1 was in the act of administer
ing the punishment, 1 heard a voice
from the Short home.
"Stopping for a moment. I recog
nized Mrs. Short's voice. 'She is justN
iwas merely helping her mistress with
the cveninc; chores. Whenever a hen
became contrary, Mrs. Short said, the
dog would catch her and hold her be
tween her paws until the pullet agreed
to behave. She would then release
the chicken, .which would run for the
roost.
"The dog never injures a hen. She
is strict with them, but even when she
is compelled to punish one of the flock,
she does it in such a gentle way that
she only frightens the chicken.
"I now have the highert respect for
Mr. Short's collie."
Rooseveltian bird to the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Jones was made yesterday
! morning, when the stork left a 10-
pound girl.
Miss Jones is to be christened Em
manelle, in honor of both of its grand
mothers. "This is Christmas enough for me,"
remarked the druggist yesterday aft
ernoon. "I don't care now whether
old Santa puts anything in my stock
ing or -not. The stark has certainly
been good t me."
Mrs. Jones and little daughter a
doing nicely, the at2nUpg' p3ryfeian
announced last night.
PRINCE
ron 1'rinrf llirutiito was proclaimed
prim.1 p:ts on hi way to til aacrt-d
LEE SHELTON MADE
GARDNER COLONEL
! c;
OrernorEIct Also Honors Cape !'t th. radical i-lement Tn the Chamber will insist tint Fmne considc
Man, Whose Name is .Germany's peace proposii!. A resolution, expressing confidence in the n v
Withheld. : Government was carried tonight by a vote of "l-" to 10.1, which a di.--
i appointment. It had been predicted that the vote would b unanimous.
j Lee ,Slielton of Kennett. Ihinkiin!
I fWti.' w h .,,1,-1 k- n
j Colonels, and the Dunklin leader has
accepted, it became known in the Cape
.yesterday.
I
MV. Shelton va; one of the fw
j Democratic leaders in Dunklin County.
who supported Gardner before the pri-
mar.v. ccrueiius Koacii was the favor -
He among the party leaders.
As soon as Colonel Gardner was ctr-
ts'n of hi.s election, he wrote lettji;
p0jtjca
to a number cf his close
"' K "
staff. Shelton's appointment is the
first to be made in Southeast Missouri,
although it is known that some an -
pomtment has been promised to a
Democrat in Cane Girardeau.
The Tribune learned of the Portof m,n wh( arPVinK deported, the
ego, out. euorts to disclose tne name
of the new official have proved futile
Ben Vinyard, secretaiy of the Wil-wm-Gsrdner
Democratic Ciub, and
T l r
who nas ine new iiovernor s ear on j
Southeast Missouri appointments, yes- j
terday admitted that a Cape Girar
deau Democrat had been honored by
Col. Gardner, but he declined to reveal
the name.
"The position us more of an honor
than anything else," said Mr. Vinyard.
"I know it has been made, but I m
not authorized to discuss it for publi-
cation just yet. There may be sonic-
thing more to announce later, conceit! -
in j;' appointments for Southeast Mis -
souri."
Rumors to the effect that Mr. Yin
yard is slated to become State In
surance Commissioner, were denied by
jlt - . . . - f V t ...... I V. ' . w . . . . . .
am not a candidate for any ofrice," he
said.
LEARN HOW TO RUN
YOUR FURNACE RIGHT
Xe- York.Dec. 13. There'
a les-
son for every householder in the
pamphlet on how to save coal, just
given out heie by the Anthracite Bu
reau of Information. Listen:
Don't put in "too much coal or too
little.
Don't crowd it above the top of the
firebrick lining in range, cylinder
stove; or hot air furnace.
Fill the fuel space twice a day in
winter weather, heaping the coal
slightly in the center.
Don't add small quantities of coal
several times a day, with attendant
shakings. Shake the grate only twice
a day before fresh coal is put in and
stop when a bright light shows under
neath. Don't leave the feed door open; it
cools the heating surfaces. To check
draft, open the check damper in the
stovepipe and shut the ashpit door.
L.Sce that the coal is properly cn-.-sumed
and not shaven through the
jrate to pass out with the ashes.
Keep the asnpit npfcy.
Don't tjse th wong sis of cal;
it's uneconomical.
;LY TO FORC
ACE
I ! Failure to Express Confidence in
New Government Leads to Belie
Radicals Will
War.
165 VOTE AGAINST GIVING
GOVERNMENT ITS APPROVAf
President Wilson Announces Tha
He Will Insist That Allies Accep :
Germany's Proposal to Discuss
Peace.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
Paris, D'C l.'I. The action of the
a uninamous vote of confidence to
Premier Erir.nd, speaking on the peace proposition, however. intimaU-t
that lu w;,uId oppose any negotiations looking to a settlement until Gi-r-
many and nor allies nail been defeated in battle and forced to
peace. Me warned the country to
London, Dec. KJ. After a day of
loaders calkd Germany's peace
among the entente as a forerunner
! sea. Uaviu l.ioyu-tieorge is expected
Holhvetr in the House of Commons
Berlin, Dec. 13. The Admiralty
1 December 4 sunk the French transpoit,
! from Saloniki to France.
j Periin, Dec. 1:. The text cf Germany's answer to the United States r.ef
' l'e-cardinj the deportations of the Belgians was published today in the rem
' official Xor.l Deut:ch Allegemeine Zeitung. It .-t-ts forth that the Unite ?
i States is evidently misinformed and explains that l,500,0UO Belgians are si!
i fering from unemployment, and to preserve the morals and insure the puL!.-.-
j order and cafety. as provided by International law. the action had to he
taken. 1
1 Ti i .r t i .u r i i , i e
Thf order effects only those Be'ciai'.s who refuse to accept vrork. An or-
. ... t, ,-' ., r.,.,-rait ir. t-. ioii w-M... fnr nr..
i fincment of Belt'ianv. who refuse to
i number of Belgian workmen vouintanh
uney are naio troon sa!;nes.
1 X .1-
! Washington. Dec. 13. President Wilson let it be known iodny that h,
wii! urge the Entente Allies to accej-t Germany's peace party, if such :
(move ca:i be consistently made. The iiecise course of action President Wi1
son will take will not be determined u'ltil he ha received the olli.ial t-: '
of the German note to the Washington Government.
Ottawa. Oit.. Dec. 13. The C:mki
dia scout boat ai:l submarine cl a-cr
Grilse- is believed to have been lost
of':' Shelburne, X. S.. with all hands, '
(the Minister of Xaval Service, an-
j nomced this afternoon. The Grilse,
123 tons, was formerly an American
j owned yacht and had been equipped
1 with a torpedo tube and quick-firers.
The Grilse carried a crew of 30. the , yf rfun front,
majority from British Columbia. The papers also sny that the f.. t
From Halifax this afternoon came 'that Gen. Xivelle is half English 1
word that the Stadacona, which went ' mother having belonged to a KenMt
from Shelburne to answer the S. O. S. military family makes his appoii
tall of the Grilse off Little Hope, has: :n,.nt particularly aeritabie a: -ro
no.' been cble to find her in the loca- the channel.
tion given in the wireless call. in conformity with the change n.
The vessel left Halifax at 3 p. m., military command announced 1
Dec. 11, for Bermuda. At 3 p. m.. night, President Poincaiie today s!' . -Dec.
12, a wireless message was re- j 0, a decree naming "Gon. JofTie, C
ceived stating that owing to weather, j raander in Chief of the French arm'
! she was returning for shelter at Shel-
bum?. N. S. At 7:30 p. m. she called
S. O. S. stating her position was lat.
43.40 N., long. (54.50 W. At 7:30 p. m.
a final message was received "now
sinking."
Berlin, via Sayvil'.e wireless. Dec.
in '-On the nic-ht of Dee. 0 German
cea forces :n Flanders undertook an
advance into Soof den and stopped the
Dutch steamer Caledonian and the
Brazilian steamer Rio Parda," said n
press bureau statement today.
DOul weir lUiiutru :ui luuiiauaii'i
en route for England and were brought
into port."
Paris. Dec. 13. The New Cabinet
arouses but moderate enthusiasm in
the press. The morning papers point
out that feven Ministers and two Under-Secretaries
belong to the preced
ing administration, so that the change
is not so radical as might hav been
eicpeeted. The appearance of Jtr. Cla-
jveille and JL Ltrucheur as' technical
expert's is toleStee'd.
The most popular features of the
reorganization are the appWiBfmVnt of
EPUT
CONFA
Oppose Prolongin
o
Chamber of Deputies in re;"u.-.ii:g to giv
thf ne-v Government, is taken to ir;lu ;i!
ask fr
beware ol r ranee s enemies.
consideration. iv.o.-t of influential Hi it-
offer as an effort to spread dls.-or.'
to a campaign oi frightuilnes-- on t!:.
to make a reply to l.euimann vi
rext Tue.-;dav. He has not expivss'v"
D
urnounces that a German submarine o;
Alcerie,
lOOu-ton ship en route
siMort their families. It is this elemei.'
message .y.s. It adds that a h
accenteil work in Germany, where
lien. lluli'Tl Kyautoy .Miinler i
War. and that of Gen. Xivellc as sn -cesor
to JofTre as comma Mf'er in chi I
on the Western front. AH ef f'e
newsnaoer.s print photiigrarhs of G- .
: xivl?o under the titl or "on- of i'
war's revelat'on." Long br laj i.i
ai-o published, recalling the ;
: eral's brilliant stroke in recapluri
Ports Douaumont aad Yaux on ti.
j technical counsel of Government
garding the direction of the war."
other decree declares that the C
j manders in Chief of the armies of i
north and northeast and of the (
of the Orient shall exercise comin::
j m conformity with the decree of (
is inirr. and Dec. 2. 1013. which m,
the Commander in Chief of the ar
mies in the field responsible to t -
Minister of War.
Jule Cambon continued in his pc t
as General Secretary of the I Wei :
UmCO.
Gen. Joftre. as technical military i !-
viser of the Government, has been
thorized to participate in the ?r,f;i
ings of the War Committee.
Gon. Lyautey. who has long been
regarded as combining high political
capacity with uncommon military a: l
ity, has been employed in Moroc- o
6iace the war began, and there p
cured the adherence to the Frer.. a
cause of a number of the great Mb- -ish
chiefs. Some of these at th ir
own expense have erfoipped from 50 o
to 10,000 men fW th eFrecch army.
