VOL. XX - NO. 231.
FRANCE'S REPLY
WILL BE MORE WAR
SAYS M. BRIAND
In Course of an Impassioned
Speech Before Chamber
of Deputies, French Pre
mier Accused Germany of
Plot to Separate the Allies
and to Demoralize the
French People
"GROSS TRAP" TO CATCH
THE ENTENTE ALLIES
The Premier Will Ask Par
liament for More Power to
Prosecute the War, but
Promises No National Mo
bilization Like the Ger
man Home Army Plan
i
the
Paris. Dec. 14. Denouncing
Ger-
man peace proposal as a gross trap, Pre
mier Briand in a speech before the Cham
ber of Deputies yesterday announced
that he would ask Parliament to give
the government increased power for car
rying on the war. At the same time the
premier promised that the government
would not undertake any scheme of na
tional mobilization as that involved m
the German homo army plan.
Premier Briand expressed his certain
ty that some of the measures taken by
Germany have behind them the object
of intensifying the war next spring when
he said she will have stronger armies
to face. He warned France to be pre
pared for these efforts and to have con
fidence in the final outcome.
Concluding the discussion Briand said:
a nuf:puvre to separate the allies, dis
a nmanrpuvre to separate the allies, dis
turb science and demoralize the peoples
of the French republic. In circumstances
such as these one will not do less than
the convention."
"I have the duty to place my country
on guard against possible poisoning,'
Mr. Briand said amid applause: "When
a country arms itself to the teeth, when
it seizes men everywhere in violation of
the laws of nations and enforces labor
upon them, I should be guilty if I did
not cry out to my country, 'look out;
fair A UttTP '
"I have te right in the first place to
say to our enemies for the hundredth
- , . ........ V. ... I j nnt
time the Diooa is on ) "ui u,
upon ours.' Not that I doubt the clear
sightedness of my country, but in. the
face, of these attempts to spread dissen
sion among the allies I exclaim , the
French republic will not do less than
the convention.' "
The Chamber held a large number of
deputies who desired to witness the first
appearance of the new cabinet.
Mr. Briand instead of reading the dec
laration of the program of the re-organized
ministry, outlined it extempor--.,,,
lv The nremier said that in se
cret ses'sion most delicate questions had
been considered. The Socialists inter
rupted the speaker with cries of ' no
but Taul Deschanel, president of the
Chamber, soon succeeded in restoring or
der. M. Briand then continued:
"The government is ready for all dis
cussions and all explanations."
He referred to the adoption by the
Chamber of a resolution demanding a re
organization in the conduct of the war,
the constitution of a war committee and
modifications in the high command. He
said the war committee would sit per
manently and that it would increase the
produethua of war necessities.
"Xo one can sav that I have ever been
unduly optimistic." said M. Briand. "But
to-day, however, more than ever we must
have the conviction that victory is cer
tain. "Vowhere have the German successes
been decisive. It is true that valorous
Rumania has been forced to yield and
it o sd event: but its army, sup
ported by that of Russia, will come into
its own. As to the question in the east
it is far from being settled and to-mor-
n... ,;n Kn a. new front which will
tha pnemv'a forces.
The Chamber o Deputies by a vote of
314 to 165 last evening adopted a resoiu
tion of confidence in the new govern
JAPAN HAS LITTLE
FAITH IN GERMAN
PEACE PROFFER
Officials of the Foreign Office at Tokio
Expressed the Belief To-day That
Entente Would Have to Fight
to the End.
Tokio. Dec. 14. Officials of the Jap
anese foreign office said to-day they do
not take the German peace proposal se
riously. They expressed the belief that
the entente would have to fight to the
end.
2,000,000,000 ASKED
FROM THE BRITISH
Amount Sought To-day in Parliament
Brings the Total for the War Up
to More Than $17,000,-
000,000.
London, IW. 14 The vote of credit of
X"4iV.m1,0si, to be moved in the House
oi" Common to-day by A. Bonar Law,
. hallor of the exchequer, is the 14th
since the outbreak of the war, bfirUii
THE
up the total for the present financial
vear to l,7;0,0OO,0OO. it ml a grand total
"for the war to .O,r32,iHX.000.
A supplementary estimate issued to
day provide for an additional l.HO,0i0
men of all rank for army service, diir
ing the present -financial vear. J ho orig
inal estimate was for 4,000,000 men.
LITTLE HOPE OF CONSIDERATION.
By Ententjj of German Peace Offer,
Thinks a Swiss Paper.
Geneva, via Paris, Dee. 14. The Swiss
government has transmitted Germany's
peace proposal note to the Swiss min
ister at Homo for presentation to the
Italian foreign office.
The Swiss newspapers oeiicve mere is
little hone of the proposals even being
considered by the entente. Suissee of Ge
neva says:
"We will be greatly mistaken If the
entente allies do not only refuse to be-
cin conversation, but decline to take no-
e- . . . ... i. : ....
tice of the desire oi me powers wimu
have everything to gain and nothing to
lose by a premature peace. The ma
noeuvre seems to have as its ohject the
introduction of discord among the en
tente allies and discontent among their
people. It is also a clever answer to the
German Social Democrats whose demands
for peace are ever increasing. If the al
lies refuse to discuss peace now the cen
tral powers will audaciously throw re
gponsibilty for the continuance of the
war upon them.
"The peace initiative came from Vien
na and is reported to be the work of the
new emperor. The news became known
simultaneously in the four capitals of
the Germanic allies, where was great
joy, but anxiety over the probable re-
piy." '
ALLIES MUST DICTATE
Declares Governor General of Canada,
' Duke of Devonshire.
Montreal, Dec. 14. The allies will not
sheathe the sword until they have gained
a peace which is of their own making
and choosing, the governor , general of
Canada, the duke of Devonshire, declared
before the Canadian club yesterday in
alluding to , the peace proposals of the
central powers. The governor general,
who responded to the toast of "The
King." said:
"We have had the pleasure, I say
pleasure, whether it Is or not, of reading
to-day the peace proposals that emanate
from "certain quarters.
"It may afford the historian of the
future some opportunity for research as
to what wag in the minds of the authors
of these proposals at this precise psycho
logical moment. We who are engaged in
everyday business do not think we need
to waste our time or attention on any
minute investigation as to the origin or
nature of these proposals. This war has
been forced upon u against our will.
"We are going to continue it until we
can gain ft peace which we shall have
every reason to believe w-ill prevent a
sudden outbreak against civilization and
humanity ever occurring again.
"The present government in Britain is
a national government and will have a
direct mandate from the people in Great
Britain to prosecute the war with the
greatest vigor and the greatest determi
nation until those ends are obtained
which we have in view. That is the
spirit of Great Britain and of Canada."
The governor general's remarks were
loudly applauded.
MORE SHIPS GO DOWN.
French Bark and Norwegian Steamer Re
ported by Lloyds.
London, Dec. 14 Lloyds shipping agen
cy announces that the French bark Km-
ma Laurens has Men sunn. A lie crew
were saved.
A Reuter's dispatch from Christiania
reports the sinking of the Norwegian
steamer Bjor by a torpedo. The crew
were saved.
GOVERNMENT OUT.
Overturn in Austria Announced in Dis
patch from Amsterdam.
London, Dec. 14. The Austrian gov
ernment has resigned. This announce
ment is made in a Reuter dispatch from
Amsterdam.
KNEW OF CONSPIRACY.
Von Papen Mentioned in Neutrality Trial
in San Francisco.
Pan Francisco, Dec. 14. Capt. Franr.
Von Papen, former, military attache to
the German embassy in Washington, who
was recalled at the request of the I'nited
States government, was mentioned yes
terday by Louis J: Smith, the govern
ment's star witness against the German
consul, FranK Bopp. and six others indict
ed on charges of violating American neu
trality in connection w ith an alleged con
spiracy to blow up ships and railroads
carrying munitions for the entente al
lies. Smith testified that in July, IMS,
while he and C. C. Crowley, one of the
defendants, were in New ork I ity,
Crowley gave him a card bearing the
name of Von Papen with an address and
the suggestion "If you need money go
there."
QUINCY MEN DINE.
Association Elected E. D. Marnock Presi
dent Last Night.
Boston. Dee. 14. The Quincy Granite
Manufacturers association dined at the
Quincy house last night. Mayor Bates
of Quincy and H. E. Fletcher of West
Chelmsford, president of the Xational
Association of Granite Industries, and
R. F. Clafiin, a Quincy banker, were the
guests.
At the business meeting E. I). Msrnofk
was elected president; Thomas Bihop.
vice president ; T. A. ihinphy. secretary;
.lames Joss, trea-urer; John O. llbran
mn, Angus D. Martin and P. J. Tansney,
iirectors,
ft A RBJT . BAI LY TIMES
HAHKK. VERMONT, THURSDAY. DKCKMHKU II, 1910.
FRENCH BEATEN
IN ARGONNE
Berlin War Statement Says
Attack After Violent Bom
bardment Was Repulsed
BULGARIANS, TOO,
HALTED SERBIANS
The Teutons Continue to Ad
vance All Along Front
in Rumania
Wliiie the warring nations are await
ing definite developments from the pres
entation of peace proposals from tier
many and her allies, the operations on
various fronts are proceeding as usual.
Interest in the military developments
still centers on Rumania, where the arm-
ies of Von Mackensen are lighting their
way forward despite the difficulties of
transportation, caused by the bad condi
tion of the roads in Rumania in winter.
Berlin, Dec. 24. All along the front in
Rumania the Teutonic forces are making
progress. It is announced officially that
all of Great Wallachia, south of the rail
road between Bucharest and Tchernova
da, is now in the hands of the Teutonic
forces.
An attempt by French troops to ad
vance in Argonne yesterday after a vio
lent bombardment was repulsed, the
statement says.
On the Macedonian front, it is de
clared, the Bulgarians have repulsed an
other attempt by the Serbians to ad
vance. MAINE HUNTING TRAGEDIES.
a Man and a Bov Were victims
a Boy Were
in
Ellsworth.
F.llsworth. Me., Dec. 14. Frank Tre
dick, aged 32, a lumber mill employe, was
accidentally shot and killed yesterday by
his brother-in-law. Fred Smith, while
hunting in the woods a short distance
from the city.
The men were walking along a narrow
trail, when the hammer of Smith's .32
calibre rifle cauuht on a twig and was
discharged, the bullet striking Trediek,
who was ahead, in the small of the back,
passing out through the abdomen.
Smith went for heln. returning with a
physician, but Trediek lived less than an
hour after the accident. He leaves a
wife and two children.
Staceyville, . Me., Deo. 14. Perley
Hayes, aged 15, son of Hanford Hayes.
Hil Tuesday nicht from the accidental
discharge of a shotgun in the hands of
his seven-year-old brother, who was piay
inr with the cun at their home. The
charge took effect in the boy's legs, caus
ing death from loss of blood and shock
about eight hours later.
HUNTER'S B0D FOUND.
Robert Emery Had Been Lost in Maine
Woods.
Mavlield. Me., Dec. 14. The body of
Robert Kmerv, aged 20, of Skowhegan
was touna nere last nipm nwrai un
miles from the St. Clair lumber camp by
a logging crew after a search which be
gan Tuesday afternoon.
Kmerv went hunting aione iuenr
morning and beeamo lost.
He was a son of branK r.mery oi .ew
York. He leaves his parents and seven
brothers and sisters. First Lieut. Frank
Emery of Washington. Mrs. tiara trench
of Chicago, Mrs. Roy L. Marston or
Skowhegan. Mrs. ootl laymr ivnsem-
da of Cuba, Miss Jeanette Emery of .Med-
field, Mass., John Emery of Jiangor anu
Miss' Pauline Emery of Skowhegan.
He was graduated from Skowhegan
high school and studied one year at St.
Paul academy. Long island. He served
three years in Co. E of Skowhegan and
was sergeant and clerk with Co. E on
the Mexican border this summer. The
body will bo- taken to Skowhegan to
night. REVIVE SHEEP INDUSTRY
Was Message Which Secretary Houston
Brought to New England.
Boston. Dec 14. Xew England ought
to revive the sheep industry, according to
Hon. D. F. Houston, secretary of agri -
culture, who. speaking at the monthly
dinner of the Unitarian club at Hotel
Somerset last evening, urged prosperous
business men of Boston and of all Xew
England to finance and aid in every way
possible the usage of Xew England pas
ture land for, sheep raising.
He declared his confidence that it can
be profitably done, but said that one-half
the problem is providing for financing
the scheme and for marketing the prod
uct. Sec. Houston's address was devoted in
the main to describing the problems that
have been and are being worked out by
his department, which now gives em
ployment to 17.172 persons, all save the
three highest officers coming under civil
services, and which has a regular budget
of $36,000,000 annuallv.
The secretary spoke of the co-operation
of his department with the general
education board, in which it is known as
the farm demonstration system, and
said: "When this law is in full opera-
tion there will be expended annually
from all sources from $10,000,000 to $12,
000,"0 for the direct education of the
farmer and his family."
LINER WAS BEACHED
After Being Struck By Unknown Ship
in Chesapeake Bay.
Norfolk, Va Ic. 14. The Merchants
4 Miners' liner Powhatan, bound from
Baltimore and Norfolk for Boston, col
lided last night in the lower Chesapeake
hav with an unidentified steamer and
was beached near Thimble shoal to pre
vent ber sinking. Four members of the
crew were injured and the 14 passengers,
all uninjured, were removed by the coast
guard cutter VamaTaw and bright to
Newport News or Norfolk,
s
TWENTY KILLED
IN MINE DISASTER
Explosion In Coal Workings at Stow
City, Kan., Ws a Combination of
Gas and Powder Rescue
Work Done.
Pittsburg. Kan.JVc. 14,-Twenty min
ers were killed and seven injured in an
explosion late yesterday in the Hecdy &
Kvan coal mine at Stone City, 15 nubs
southwest of here. The injured men will
recover, it was believed. A combination
of gas and powder explosion i said to
have caused the disaster, -nt state mine
experts have not lecn able to penetrate
the mine to make a thorough examina
tion. A driver heard a rumbling noise, fol
lowed shortly by smoke, which began to
pour ont of the south entrance. The
alarm was given. and XI miners succeed
ed in getting out uninjured.
A hasty investigation ahowed that no
miners were coming from the north
drifts, and rescue parties were organized
to fUrht their wsv to their aid. As fast
s the rescuers found tho injured, iney
were hoisted to the top, and physicians
began the flirht to save, their lives.
Timothy Kecav, one oi tne mine opera
tors, was cauht in thsj shaft with the
miners but w as rescued. I lie will recover.
The mi no is operated by Reedy and
Edward Ryan under afleaso from the
Mayer Coal company, f.
W. H. Windsor, a veieran miner pi
the district, lost his lifa with two sons,
Frand and I.pud. William Hey and his
son, I.yrt, also were killed. Mat Roth
and his son. I liaries, . uieu uwnn.
Flovd Hrezovoir and his son, Joseph,
were among the rescued.
CADY RE-ELECTED
HEAD OF THE GRANGE
Sixth Degree Was Worked on Class of
200 at Convention is Rutland
Wednesday Evening.
Rutland. Dec. 14. Contests in the elec
tion of officers of the Vermont state
grange necessitated the continuing of the
niornim; sesMon Into the afternoon yes
terday. In the afternoon following the
business session, the third and fourth de
gves were exemplified by Rutland Val
ley grange degree team, while in the
evening the sixth degree was workd by
the state grange on a class of more than
20U candidates.
Willis X. Cady of Middlebury was
elected master for the third time. Other
officer elected were: G. Oi Flint of Ran
dolph, overseer; Orlando fL. Martin of
PlninfieM, lecturer; E. M, Farr of Ches-
tpr. .reward: M. W. Hvlaad of Washing
ton, assistant steward; Mrs. C. J. Bell
of Hardwick, chaplain; A. A. Priest of
Randolph, secretary; F. B. Pierce of
nrnttloboro. treasurer: E. D. Adams of
West Haven, gatekeeper; Mrs. W. X.
Cady of Middlebury, Ceres; Miss Jennie
Bell of Hardwick, Pomon,, -Mrs. H. W.
Sargent of Brattleboro and F. C. Ban
croft of Barre, memliers of the executive
committee.
During his talk on the insurance prop
osition. Judge Foote said:
"Tile Patrons' Co-operative Fire Insur
ance comnanv was organized June 14
1015, under act Xo. 159 of the laws of
Vermont of lOl.'i. Its purpose is to carry
the insurance of Vermont farmers, who
are members of the grange, on their
property against fire and lightning. The
charter" limits the company to members
of the order of Patrons of Husbandry.
"Insurance was issued to the amount
of over $200,00(1, to take effect Sept. 1
1015, and the fiscal year closed Sept. 1,
l!)Ui. at noon. Our losses for the first
vear were $100; and at a meeting of the
directors held at Grange hall, Middle
burv. Sept. 4, HMfl, it was voted unanl
moiisly not to make any assessment this
vear, as there are ample funds to meet
all requirements for the present.
"This is an actual saving of from
three to four dollars on each thousand for
all who arc insured.
"The annual meeting will be held at
the grange hall at Middlebury on Tues
day, Jan. !, 1017. A 11111 report win ov.
made and officers elected at that meeting
and every policyholder is a voter. The
total insurance in force Sept. 1, 101 tl, was
$321,082."i0, an increase of over 40 per
cent, for the first year.
SERIES OF ACCIDENTS.
To Johnson People in the Last Few
Days.
Johnson, Dec. 14. A strange chapter
of accidents caused a number of John
son people paiuiiu injuries curing mc
past few days-
While A. C. Parker was
(driving his horse both reins broke and
the horse ran away, throwing .Mr. l'ark-
er out. He was badly shaken up and
lamed by the fall.
Following this accident, Frank Miller,
engineer of the day shift at the mill of
the American Mineral Co., was caught
in the shafting and was thrown around
several times. One leg wag broken twice
and the other once, while his jaw was
also fractured and his scalp badly torn.
Hie was also badly bruised and cut. Mr.
Miller did not lose consciousness and he
was rushed to the Fanny Allen hospital
in Winooski, where he is in a serious
condition, it is reported.
Within an hour after this accident,
George Marshall, an employe of D. A.
Barrows, was caught in the machinery
and one hand was badly mangled. He
too. a taken to the Fanny Allen hos
pital, w here he is reported as in favorable
condition.
Ilcrt Flanders was the next to be
I aided to the list of injured. He was
j j.Uy iurt w,on tree fell upon him.
Added to these were two deaths, Mrs.
Doty, mother of Hortoij Doty, died ami
Alfred Fay, who had been in failing
health for some time, having been a
cripple for many years, succumbed. ITe
is survived by his mother and several
brothers and sisters.
REPORTED FAVORABLY.
Amendment for National Prohibition Is
Adopted By Judiciary Committee.
Washington. D. C- Dec. 14. A pro
posed national prohibition amendment
wa to-dav ordered favorably reported to
. vote of 12" to 7. A proposed universal at Graniteville on Friday, Dec. 22. for the
s,iTrire amendment was ordered reported purpose of granting first paper, nd re
with recommendation. ceiving applications for ewnd paj-sr.
the House by the judiciary committee nv
WILSON GETS
PEACE NOTE
Document Is Said to Be Sub
stantially as Published
Unofficially
TO BE SENT FORWARD
TO ENTENTE POWERS
Accompanying the Note Was
a Confidential One from
Charge Grew at Berlin
Washington, D. C, Dec. 14. The note
conveying the proposal for peace by the
central powers, which the I'nited States
is to transmit to the entente belligerents,
arrived during the night and was being
prepared for the president this morning.
The document is said to be aubstan-
tially the same as published in the un
official dispatches from Berlin in the re
port of the Overseas News agency. Ac
companying it in confidential report
from the American charge, urew, nnuer-
stood to 1 an outline of the affairs
which led up to the German chancellor's
speech and the sending of the proposals.
As soon as President Wilson has gone
over the note, it will be forwarded to the
American diplomatic representatives in
Belgium, France, England, Japan, Russia,
Serbia and Rumania for delivery to the
officials of those nations.
Secretary of State Lansing said the
note would go forward to the belligerents
. ... . , L J
probahly to-day and that no aecision n.i
been reached as to whether the United
States would accompany it with any ex
pression.
At least one of the representatives
here of European neutrals already has
sent a despatch to his home government,
asking that he be authorized to assure
President Wilson of the support 01 nia
government in sending some expression
to the entente allies, designed to influ
ence thm to give consideration to the
offer to discuss peace.
The German note is the only one to
..... l It 1L..
arrive. .Nothing has neen nearo. ny mc
state department of the communications
from Austria, Bulgaria or lurkey.
UNITED STATES WAS
MISINFORMED ABOUT
DEPORTATION ISSUE
Germany's Reply to American Note of
Protest, Received To-day, Is Un
derstood to Excuse Move on
Ground of Expediency.
Washington, D. C. Dec, 14. Germany's
reply to the American protest against
tho 'deportation of Belgians arrived at
the state department this morning. It
is understood to contend that the I'nited
States was not accurately informed of
the purposes of the deportations, which
are said to be wade on the ground of
social necessity.
ARRESTED IN HIS HOME.
Joseph J. Guilfoy Had Returned to Man
chester, N. 11.
Manchester, X. H., Dec. 14. Joseph J.
Guilfoy, senior member of the brokerage
firm of Guilfoy & Sullivan, who disap
peared last Friday morning, following an
investigation of the firm's accounts,
which showed a shortage which is now
believed to exceed $50,00, was last night
arrested at his homo, 931 Chestnut street.
Information of Guilfoy's presence in
the city was obtained by patrolman John
Watts, who was tipped off that he had
been seen on the street. Inspectors
Moher and Healy were detailed to go to
the Guilfoy home, and taking patrolman
Cussin, they presented themselves at ie
house. They were admitted and found
Guifoy, who received them coolly, say
ing: "Do you want me?"
On being told that they did, he said:
"All right, I will go with you.
He said he left Manchester on the first
train Friday morning and went to Bos
ton, then to Xew Vork and Philadelphia,
and sought a friend in the latter city
he endeavored to have come to his recue,
but failing to get help he came back to
"face the music," as he expressed it.
Guilfoy will he represented by Hon.
lohn B." Cavanaugh, a member of the
governors council, woo was ciuicu uy
him at a late hour last, nignt.
It is doubtful if he will be arraigned
before Friday, and there are some of his
friends who still entertain the belief that
matters may be adjusted so that an
amicable settlement may be reached be
tween the creditors and the firm.
Guilfoy arrived here from Philadelphia
after dark lat night and had been at
home but 30 minutes when the police ar
rived. VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Preference for a Creditor Alleged in Bur
lington Proceedings.
Rutland, Dec. 14. Three Burlington
concerns have filed petitions with Clerk
F. S. Piatt of the United States court
in involuntary bankruptcy proceedings
against Michael Galitas and George
Poulos of Burlington. The petitioning
creditors and their claims follow: C. L.
Sonic i Co., $345.20; Spaulding. Kimball
A t o.. $. 55.1.44; Burlington Grocery Co.,
$13S.!7. The counsel for the creditors
are Darling 4 Smith. Preference of a
creditor is alleged as the cause for ad
judging the Galitas and Poulos bankrupt.
Naturalisation Court Next Week.
Sessions of naturalization court will lie
held at Montpelier on Wednesday. I"c.
. at Barre on Thursday, Dec. 21, and
SUICIDE IN BURLINGTON.
H. A. Ayert Shot Himself Through De
spondency Over Health.
Burlington. Dec. II. -II. A. Ayers, who
has lived in the J. B. Henderson hoii'e
at 5.'ti4 South lliion street for about
three months, committed suicide yester
day by shooting himself in the head with
a 3H calibre revolver. He died without
regaining const-iouuc about half an
hour later, the effort of the physicians
who were called tu save his life being
useless. The reason for the act is sup
posed to have been despondency, caused
by continued ill health.
The Miiicide was committed aliout h
o'clwk in the morning, Ayers being
alone in his bedroom at the time. The
shot was heard by his sister, Mrs. Marion
Itaker, who rushed to the room of her
brother, to find the door locked. She
forced the door anil, finding her brother
in bed with the blood flowing from the
wound, summoned aid. Two physicians
were called us well as Health Officer Dr.
.1. F. Funis. Mr. Ayers lived but alxnit
twenty minutes after thp physicians ar
rived, dying without regaining conscious
ness. The ball entered the right temple,
just above the ear. and did not pa-s clear
through the head, lodging the brain.
The deceased came to this city last
May from Xew Vork, w here too close at
tention to business had caused a physical
breakdown. He leased a cottage at
Thompson Point for the summer and
purchased land there. In the fall he
leaned the Henderson home for six
months and lived there with his sister.
His health hud not been as good lately
and he had been unable to sleep for three
nights Wore taking his life. He was,
before coming to this city, interested in
the building of a uniform type of tramp
steel schooners. Relatives had not ar
rived up to midnight, ami Vlrs. nkcr,
suffering from collapse, was unable to
give iniormatlon as to tne ramuy 01
Avers, who was a comparative stranger
in this city.
MUSICIANS SUMMONED
To Form 1st Infantry Band in Barre This
Evening.
Musicians in Barre and vicinity are re
quested to meet in the city court room
at the city building this (Thursday)
evening at 7:30 o'clock for the purpose
of organizing the 1st infantry band in
Barre, the call for the meeting having
been made bv Captain and Adjutant C
X. Barber of the 1st infantry, V. X. G.
The full amount of pay to which the
various irrades in the headquarters com
pany are entitled k here given: Band
leader, $'22. per year; flrt sergeant, $135
per year; bHttalum sergeant major and
sergeant bugler, $120 per year; color see
geant, drum major and first class musi
cian and band sergeant, $108 per year;
sergeant, supply sergeant, mess sergeant,
cook, horseshoer, stable sergeant, banri
corporal and second-class musician, $00
per year; third-class musician, $72 per
year; mechanic, $63 per year; privates,
first, class. $54 ner vear: privates, $45.
In order to receive the full amount of
pay specified above, officers and men
miist attend at least 48 armory drills, in
cluding indoor target practice, during the
year, at which more than 50 per cent of
the officers, and at least 60 per cent of
the enlisted men must be present. The
period of the drill, exclusive uf rests and
intrrnrf inns, must oe at least one aim
one-half hours. The character of the in
struction must be as prescribed by the
war department.
MONTPELIER TO PAY
For Its Share of Expense of County Agri
cultural Agent.
Montpelier will pay its share of ex
pense incurred bv the county in engag
ing the agricultural agent, the city coun
cil in regular session last night rescind
ing its vote taken last montn anu voi
ing immediately after to pay the agent
the amount appropriated lor mis city
The council had looked at the matter
from a legal standpoint and decided it
was under no legal obligation, mil our
ing last - evening's session the council
men deemed it best to pay its share.
Building permits were granted to Bon
azzi & Bonazzi, to construct an annex
to their granite shed, 135 by 40 feet, and
in T. 11. Nelson of Wrichtsville, to build
a narace. The council also disposed of
a considerable amount of routine busi
ness.
BURIAL AT EAST ORANGE.
Following the Funeral of Frank J. Colby
in Barre.
Th funeral of Frank J. Colby, for
many years a resident of Barre, whose
death occurred at the hume of his moth
er Mrs. E. C. Colby, 21S Washington
street. Monday evening, after a long pe
riod of declining health, was held at the
lioni. this forenoon at 11 o clock, Kev,
J W. Barnett. pastor of the Barre Con
gregational church, officiating. The bear
ers w-pre: Frank E. Gladding and John
P. Corskie, jr., of Barre, A. C. Dickey of
East Barre and Sherburne C. Hutchinson
of Montpelier. The body was taken to
Vt flmnue. where interment was maue
in the family lot in the village cme
terv.
TWO HELD FOR BURGLARY.
Young Men Charged with Entering Clare
mont, N. H, Railroad Station.
Bellows Falls, Dec. 14.-John Minogue
and Thomas Crowley, each years oiu,
were arraigned veterday ltore Judge
Kennev in the municipal court at Clare
niont X. 1L. on charge of breaking and
entering the Claremont railroad statu.n.
The men were held in $-0l bond each
for their appearance in county court.
Crowley has served time for breaking
into a North Walpole saloon.
CAMP AT FORT ETHAN ALLEN.
United States Will Conduct Cavalry
School There Next Summer.
Burlington. Dec. 14. S. S. Rirhold.
chairman of the military committee of
the Merchants association, learned from
an authentic source yesterday that Fort
Ethan Allen will bevome a L'nited Stst.s
military training camp for cavalry next
summer between June 15 an 1 Scjd. 15.
the same period of the infantry i-amp
riattsbiirg. N. Y. There will tie t!
, ts of rookies trained at each nip.
PKICK. OXK CENT.
GRANITE MEN .
IN BIG SPREAD
Rarre Association Held Ban
quet After the Annual
Business Session .
w. d. Mcdonald
NEW PRESIDENT
Large Crowd Gathered and
Had an Evening of
Hilarity . ;
Barre granite manufnetur repre
senting members of the assi. ".on from
everv town and nracticallv everv cranite
plant in the stone belt, put business be
fore pleasure yesterday on the oecanlon
of their annual meeting and bancpiet by
devoting the better part of an afternoon
to closing their affairs for the year and
opening the way for the administration
of affairs in 1017. Succeeding Alexander
Duncan of the North Barre Granite I o.
as president of the association is William
D. McDonald, who recently severed his
connection with the World Granite Co. in
East Barre and who has organized a con
cern that contemplates the erection of a
atmeshed in Barre. Mr. McDonald is one
of the younger members of the manu
facturers' organization and is recognized
as one of the most progressive. He was
unopposed for the ofnc ot president.
Xone of the other offices was contested
and the followins elate was completed
just before adjournment soon after 6
o'clock: First vice-president, llliam H.
MacKen.ie of Littlejohn, Odgors & Milne;
... A 1 1 fi..-l... f
second vice-presment. a. n. "
Montpelier; directors for three years, H.
J. M. Jones of Jones Bros.' Co., E. J.
Batchelder of Hoyt 4 Lebourveau; direc
tors for two years, Armando Comolli of
Comolli & Co.. and John A. Cross of
Cross Bros., Northfield; directors for one
year, Alexander A. Milne of Jloyt s.
Milne and Alexander Duncan. Harold
P. Hinman, who is completing his second
year as a successful secretary and treas
urer, was re-elected. The auditors are
John C. Booth of the Martinson Estato
Co. and John B. Magnaghl of the Pres-brev-Coykendall
Co.
That the members of the' association
are manifesting a lively interest in mat
ters of moment pertaining to the trade
was evidenced by the spirited fashion in
which general business topics were dis
cussed. The retiring president, Alexan
der Duncan, called the meeting to order
at 1:30, o'clock and the afternoon was
far spent before the final task, that of
electing officers, was reached. The year
in retrospect was informally discussed by
several of the members and some of the
tentative plans for the coming year were
considered from a number of angles.
mong the members the opinion seemed
to prevail that the officers who have
served since last January were in a posi
tion to give a good account of their stew
ardship and the reports given were
adopted unanimously. Since the last an
nual meeting, a national advertising cam
pa ign has been launched under auspicious
circumstances and its results, some of
which are already accounted for in tan
gible form, are" calculated to be far
reaching. The year now closing also wit
nessed a complete rejuvenation of the
manufacturers' headquarters, where tho
business meeting was held. The entire
third floor of the C. W. Averill building,
so long leased by the manufacturers, has
been divided and converted into one of
the most adequately appointed oflie
suites in the city and enough space was
left for the auditorium.
There was a feeling prevalent that the
past vear could be reviewed without any
misgivings and that the 12-month just
ahead promises large achievement for
the or-ranization. All of the business bad
been transacted when the first call for
lunch was sounded at o'clock and m
one of the ante-rooms, the business-surfeited
manufacturers found a substantial
erab lunch awaiting them, substantial
enough to suffice until the hour for the
all-absorbing Italian supper should ar
rive. The Banquet.
The banquet will go down on the min
utes of the meeting as one of the big
successes of the year. Under the direc
tion of Mrs. P. D. Molla. an Italian sun
per carnished with all the condiments
known to a race of efficient chefs, was
prepared and served in Clan Gordon hall
,v a number of young women from the
Italian colony. Guests of the evening
included Guy R. Varnum, president of
the Quarrv Owners' association; A.
Moore, president of the Barre Merchants
association; W. G. Reynolds, president of
the Barre Board of Trade; Henry I.
Whitaker of Chicago, publisher of the
Monumental News and Park Ceme
terv; Fred K. Irvine of Chicago and F. A.
Church of the American Stone Trade
J. R. Ooutts. representing (;rmt';. .M"r.
bie 4 Bronze of Boston; D. J- MaeX.chol,
A. W. Fonda and Mr. Anderson of Boston.
:. , .- nam. ami Maror Bout-
Mavor toruon 01 ki 4. h
well of Montpelier were ""able to bp
present and regrets were wired by P. M
Mclaughlin of the Monument Retader
Carroll's orchc-tra played while the ban
.lr. w.re beinc ushered to their seats.
The hall wa' attractively decorated with
"lore.," brings and many lights, high,
red. blue and incandescent.
Tl,e menu (Not g""-l fr.
Mirn.mi celery, olive brown.: s-rd.n.
d'' . eorge llovti: Ac. inghi del Nor h
. ,,. .,i,e Sandy Milne; sal.me M.sto
n,in,.,i; sotipa teata da Soup, not
drinks ' Minetrina all. Hhie Jones.
' . .i fs-ia msngiare: vittelotnn. An-
oo B.-rVi: spaghetti fTl
del Happ'no Hinni.ni: cervo .1 Salto del
Troni .;..ufsoi; P"lli Hi Giovann. Cor
Iki in!t del special..! a -Wtll.e Bar
deerti. formagei d. capra del
In, Ments" Cahagni. fruitt. divers, s.
Timido Callahan, cafe Nero alia -'ecei
"iming. latte di beeco di Georg.o Mcrlo
(Continued on fourth lg)
