ie tfueumcari Views
Advertisers Know Where to
Place Their Ada
h ft
V? Largest Circulation of Any ft
'i Paper In Quay County A
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XV.
TUCt MCAKI, QUAY COUNTY, NKW ME I ICO, THURSDAY. DECEMIIER II, 1'Jlfi
NO. 12
GOOD ROADS 1
A SUCCESS
FOR $160,000 BONDS
Tho largest good ronds meeting ev-
or held In Quay county was indulged
in at the Court House Monday night,
December 11. There were about 250
get seats. The meeting was under
ihe auspices of the Quay County Cham
I or of Commerce and wns called to or-.
der by tho president, T. A. Muirhead,
who stated the purpose of the meeting.
Messrs. Dovor and Street wero call
ed upon to make talks lit regard to the
f.nnillttnn nf tlln rnniltl. Klinu'ini thnt
tomcthlng absolutely would have to ,
no none lor in roaua o. uay county, ,
in orucr louc n inc lor 1.10 marc 1 01 .
progress thnt is being made by other
muntloa Mr ?t-it-k whm tlu.li mlli d ,
counties. Mr. ht. rk was tlicn "Ului
upon for practical suggestions as to
tvi,n .hmiM i.n .Inno Mr. Rtm W is
, 7m n. inonr , th
rond situation in Quay county for some
time. Ho stated thnt ho believed n
tion and estimated the cost of the work
that needed to bo done at 138.000. It
,,,,,, K,rnotp1i Mm If ImniK won. voti.il
the ."mount Hhol ho Slilclcnt not ,
tinnnln nrosont. represent ntr tirncticnl- bridge, with u carrier device, unon time. This n .iv was i?ood. but the mui .
Iv everv district in the countv. Thu which automobiles and wagons might High School nunlls have nrennred a ! reabyterian, Christian,
room wns packed and some were , pull themselves across would be prac-1 Comedy which promises to surpass nil Methodist churches wore
..1. 11.... I In el...,.1 if linim. ..lit. 4i llnnl nn ti tmnnnrni'U nl'rnnr.fmnnt fill ' nriivinnq nrnflnt't tnnu In nlniu rnr.nf.i.1 .ll Ol tllO OrgaillZatlOUS
ll.MIUV.. IU av.l... IIWK HklllK vw ...... .... ... .... . ... . ... . ... . "
bond issue would bu the only practical ' "I , , i ' . . y 1,10 wcctcst rose is the old rose prerft . . !..; fi, r,i I n V,. .'riibiv . i f lu . . T i t.
solution of the problem. With tho us- It. Several of the Roy citizens then Aml X Mmvlimc! lWnk le ol(1 Iovt..s XhDM "' Ajfflon . . .hu,,lU,tc ,nw" "m j1 UK'
iini.i. nf si.v .i nl nthor inv nnvorq agreed to stay over Tuesday n order l0st nignt utc. Admission will Do free jested that you consult the County
,e h dUdl" upi .iduS,X.K; I" yhlt tho Hc of the propoLd bridge ! ,,0St; ihn invited to at- Au0,,lcy M t0 hetlier this claim iH
thnt iiiinmvimiitolv ""fi miles of ronds nd to tnko mensuremcnts, etc., in or-. For a collcgt life is a thing npart, ton"' lnosu wh0 comV ,0 ,tn.0 c,llcr, entitled to record. This office hns no
loiimitn.. ..S dor that estimates might bo obtained .And n college love is a whim o' the tnlnment, art- requested to bring with jurisdiction to decide ns to the validity
only to build the roads, but to buy11.1" worK wouui no started in tne vn
some machinery that could be used in v"Ji',s towns; ...
the maintenance of the roads. : ..Tho meeting was not ndjourncd tin
r t T.i a1 1 1 ... i ..
u. j. riiiuguii was men euuvu uiiu:i
. . . n 11.
to furnish some figures us to what
. , , . .. . , .
such a bond issue would cost each tax
payer nnd he stated that a bond issu; j
in the amount of $150,000, the taxation ;
would be. one mill on each dollar, or
81.00 on evorv thousand dollars of 11s-'1"
sussed valuation. This plan would
provide tho retirement of thu bonds 1
J.. I ., ..I . 1. '
111 ou yearn, una unuer inis jnan, tne
citizens paying taxes on $1000 worth
of property, would only pay one dol
lar each year toward a good system of
roads.
The president then called upon va
rious citizens residing in other towns
to express their opinions on the mnt-
.r. v. uisco responded for Kara Visa
any; Roy Smith from Plain, 15. L
iniicis from House.
Abide from these there were ten or
fteen other men representing the dls-
1 lets south of Tucumcnri in Quay conn t
who snoko 11 favor of the bonds
'.fter the mntter had been discussed i
. t length, it was finally moved and sec
m led thnt u committee be appointed
imposed of one citizen from each vot
ing precinct in the county, who would
meet in Tucumcnri December 23 to
arm nn organization to sco that the
i umey proposed to bo derived from the
ale of the bonds would bo divided
i ccording to the amount of tnxes ench
; recinct paid into the county. These
committee-men were not appointed by
thc president, but the representatives
of the various voting precincts who
vuru present were instructed to re
turn to their homes nnd hold meotings
i nd appoint their respective delegates
(r representatives on this committee.
It was agreed thnt this would bu
ilonu and arrangements arc now being
Hindu to hold meetings In each voting
, recinct in tho county for the purpose
of appointing the committccmeir fori
this roud bonrd. It is proposed that I
this committee shall be a permanent I
hoard who will not discharge their
1 .. ..1l .11 f , 11.. I 1 I
duties in full until after tho bonds are
i old nnd tho money expended nnd while
the roads nre being built the snmu
committco will continue to look lif
ter the interests of the various pro
ducts. Those prcscnt wero unanimous
in the belief that this plan would be
practical and would bc approved by
the people genernlly, ns under this
plan each precinct in the county will
bo represented on the board who will
look nfter tho distribution of thc rond
money.
At this juncturo in tho meeting, n
mnto quartet furnished some special
music nnd entertained tho guests for
nbout twenty minutes. A Inrge dele
gation of Roy citizens were present nt
tho meeting to take up thu mntter with
the Quay county people, regarding tho
opening up of tho road between hero
und Roy, N. M. In order to open up
this road, it will be ncccssnry to build
n bridge of somo description across
the Canadian river, at somo point near
Dripping Springs. About 1C dolcgntes
from Roy were prcscnt to go Into tho
mntter and tho proposition was dis
cussed from every point of view. It
was agreed that no money from tho
. rcu iticrananu irom iogan, . 1. , - sting inoeoiedncss mny ne liquidated mons will lie placed in some vacant
atson from Endce, M. C. Jones from 1,0.;0(1 .lo. .,,l,,ltl .h,s ,,,;,,,c Pl)U,wrl ' icfore Christmas holidays. Tho earn- nt in the down-town section of the
' lenrio, L. A. Petit from Plain; I. Mc-1 ubsci iption with perhaps a little aid ..stness which the pupils have display- -ity. where they will remain during
.men from Quay. J. H. Pearson from ! Lron.th.u Htnte- U woub greatly bene- !(, jn W0.1;ilur to ,iischnre this debt he holidays. Mr. Sickles, mm,,.,, of
r , t'MK 11 vim lor inn nniii'P. it is tiro-1 . , . , . ..... . .
, nd thu general sentiment in tho mat- m ! Tr" " . ,oy' " y" r ; t f1", nr0V
ir was favorable toward thc proposi- f1("!;,,iV, KI(, - 'J,0""1' T-1
1 on. Invariably, tho opinions were ex-1 MteM. h.l . nnd h. H. (.allcgos, ;
rested that tho bond issue would be I Mu Lumlmr, Cloudo Wcnchcll, mgr.
ii, niv m,...,a nu.r,i tlw. i ,iuir..i f Ooodmnii Mcrcantilo Co., Rev. .1. fa. ,
IE'
ilNG
-FARMERS
bond issue would be used for this road j
and for tho bridge over tho Canadian
that will open up tho road. It had
been In tho minds of some that a cable
the Hoy road, but letters were read i
from bridge concerns, showing that it 1
would be difficult to protect the car-
ringe from the strong winds and the
practicability of n suspension bridge
was then discussed. It was believed
thnt several thousand dollars could
easily lie rained among the citizens of
Tucumcnri, Hoy, French, Mills, Raton
-7 "; v-- n
. 3 it
lm nrcuion wiie consummated, it
won menu eonsidcrnb 0 n do nrs and
communitv mentioned
cuus to cacn community mentioned.
The need has long hcun felt for the
opening up of this road and from the
outlook nt tho present time, it is be
,"ry T 1 ,
,r"' "c companies, ns to tno ,
of construction. It was agreed
th"1 's soon nx tn,s information was I
obUiined. subscriptions for carrying on .
:i ii. -n . .i u : u i,
I ill i i ..hi if. ill. tin. I lb in ill'MVlilliy I
i. .i ,1,,.. :. i..i.i ,..i ...:n
111111 null. i:tiimiui:i iiiiiu uuuu will if
,,,,, ,. ,,, ,.i, ,1,,,. , ,i
suit Horn tno work that wns done,
. , , ...
. About a dozen good roads cnthus-
mst "f l,ol wc h.c, Monday night
lc uoou uoaus meeting.
to attend ne uoou 110 ids meeting.
These gentlemen mean business and
are anxious to recura a road to join
the main roads out of Tucumcnri. To
do this it will be necessary to build a ,
son railroad, as well as Tucumcnri, and 1
.. , , , 4 . .
since it hns such n good start there is
.-.IIICU 11. nun MIL'll II Kui nun I W1UIU 1!
.line douui nimui 11 i.eing nccompnsn-,
V'llnm, 1,10 "usa -v!nr . .
. "" ""-,0,
Jtus-Sp, 1111 1 ostmnsler n ra. li. Jonn-
uh, ..,. , .UI, l . u.ivu wu.ui.-.
niuiii nv tiiti mil i.t vtivii iittinv,tii
Good Ronds Rooster from Plain
I wish to soy n few words through
your interesting paper on thc grcnt
question thnt is being agitated by the
leading minds of our whole country.
Thnt is the question of Good Ronds. 1
think good ronds und good schools nre
two of thu leading fnctors in the up
building nnd thu advancement of any
county or state, and us to tho plans
of obtaining good roads I think thc
"Bond" issue plan is one good plan,
which equalizes the iiurdcn on the
tnx payers, and the County Convict
plan is another good plan for men
will need good ronds ns long as time
lasts and unless somu great rcformn
lion takes place in triu human race
wo nre liablu to havu county convicts
for quite a while. So why not get our
law milkers to give us a law by which
each county enn work tho county con-
.!... il.. , ,f ,.. I .1 , ..
vii'ia on tne puoiic roiuis aim inuruiiy
pay for their bonrd instead of being
a burden to the tax payers.
Uno other thought und I close. It
is nn established fact thnt wo ennnot
till live on a public road. So let us not
knock on n plan because it docs not
pass close by our door. I live mid
way between Tucumcnri und Clovis,
about 40 miles to cither nlaco nnd if
i can get u well graded road lor zu
or .10 miles of that distanco I shall
fed that I um greatly benefited by thc
good ronds system. I nt. for Hotter
Roads for the Whole People cither di
rectly or indirectly. J. E. LANG.
Mr. Lnng hns voiced our sentiments
to a certain extent with tho exception
of building the ronds with convict la
bor. It would bo all right if wo had
enough convicts, but the ronds nre
needed now nnd now is tho time to
build them whllo the farmers aro not
so busy and men would be glnd to
work nt a rcasonnblo wage. Tho con
victs should bo used to keep tho roads
in shnpo after they nre once built. It
yould bo a good thing for tho county
nnd might mnko jnll a place to bo fear
ed instead of desired.
u.u ,,.,Hi..m .Mr ,.-, .op lIunnita slmir Roi)CCCll Kyercst, '.eon appointed which is composed of
posrdly northeast of luc imcan, near r!1)cln nc0iviera, Maurine Stock, the following parties: Ed. Hall, C. A.
-he urippmg hpnng.s rord. nn( olh(;r youn ,0 of un. jiowers Tom u01.ton i,-rej White, Fred
Some of tho Roy boosters remained ( oublcd nl)iIit The onUro cnst ()f ik.. M G M j , ; M
over Tuesday nnd together with some .hnrnctcra w, ,,e printc(1 in fu. ,,utnui j,rs, Sn k, Mrs ,,, ,t
of rucumcan's influent.nl c.tizcns.they Tho Athlctjc A.ssodation , prcscnt. ,s ssilllo tlmt ftc; thc clllorlnIn.
went to he Canadian river and so- ,, this , in U)0 h th,(t n ox. munt lho ,n tnQa um, lhe (k,eor.
1 111 1111 uiu iiiwiis nuriii ailing nit: ijuw
AAHON ltOCCS, FRESHMAN.
1 IS COMING TO TOWN
1 When "Auroti Hoggs, Freshman,"
comes to town, the peoplo of Tucum
carl will bu given an opportunity to
see one of tlic freshest, richest, mid
1 cleanest College Comedies on this big
American stngu today. Tho play will
be produced, under the auspices of the
High School Athletic Association, In
the Opera House on Thursday evening
December 21, 1U10,
i When ' tho High School presented i
Richard Walton's Tullv's "A Strenu-
ous Life" two years ago, it was gen-
orally believed that no better amateur
production could be staged here. The
demand of the public was so urgent
that the play was presented n second
In presenting "Aaron Hoggs, Fresh-
man," it is thu opinion of all who have
seen tho play that the best possible
selection has been made. No other
home talent play hns even remotely
approached it in wealth of cleun wit
Hid humor. There is not a dull mo-
r ment in the piny. The synopsis of the
piny is well expressed in the following
simple poem:
'
In cno years, when life's at spring,
. j
"V , '" "-""a " "lllL ln,"K ,
And hea,s nre t1""110'1 'y tiw college
hj ,
,.VY"r,' . .. ..
rtn" u,c ricsnmun sccks n couege gin.
0ff with the love, on with the new.
"t often tho nowor lovo won't do,
nenri.
Hut tho heart beats true, tho the world
seems slow,
When you love the girl you used to
1 i
Know.
. , , ,
r.ncn part in tno piny nas neon ns-
Signed to n pupil who has had exten-
... .
..'A' , . U . .
to a "Purple nnd Gold" graduate who
specialized in this work.
Ho assured thnt this production will
'n no sense be nmnteurish. The price
oi numission win iic cnccnuiiy retunii-
to m,t ll!nscd with th(,
pluyIT will tnon ifa own merits.,
Lcmi p 'Tvill bo played by
CUnton whnrloni nrol(, Aull, Claude
F(iusnnchtf Juhn '(!
! ' hns been fuvornbly commented on by
the pul)lic in Kcnc'vni Th
n nUL,ietnn
I'"". w ... i....,,. .111.- ,in.-,niiiiiii-
..i 1 1... ,u ,u ., ., ,
orci!intc.i ..,,.1 , is ilnm.,i ,w .;.r,,n
inuanci ol your good will :rav lie
orman, Walter Hoc- A Tree Decorating Committee hns
merited by the future nrti. n nf the A ind for lighting thu trees during tho
.oontinn. The pupils nius. depend on Holidays. Those in charge of the dis
he public for help, but they expert ribution of the gifts will be as fol
io give value received for every en- ows: Rev. Hoering, Rev. Lewis, Rev.
-ouragemrnt extended. Ilenderlite, Rev. Rensoner, Mussrs. Put
Wu ask you to see "Aaron Hoggs,
prcsi,mn llol Incroiy t help the
AtneUc Association; but rather be-
cause we fed that It is a trent that
vou ennnnt well nliord to miss. IT
IS WORTH THE MONEY.
Hoost! Roost for thu "Purple and
GjIiII" Help make the Tucumcari
schools better, bigger, und more alive,
We need you.
VALIDITY OF 8-HOUR LAW TO
HE ARGUED ON JANUARY
Washington, Dec. 1 1.--Arguments
on constitutionally of the Adamson
eight-hour law weru today i:ut by the
supremo court for January 8.
Chief Justice White announced the
court's action on tho motion presented
'nst Monday by Solicitor General Davy
to advance the Missouri, Oklahoma and
Gulf railroad test for early hearing.
The easo was ordered heard boforu a
dozen other important casus previous-
ly assigned for Jnnuary 8.
Although the court set the argu-
incuts for a week after tho law goes
into effect, the interests of railroad
employes and nlso tho railroads nre
deemed nmply protected under the slip
ulutinn signed by railroad nnd govern
ment attorneys. This stipulation, n
part of tho official record requires the
railroad to keep special accounts of
wages due employes under the Adam-
son net, for prompt pnymcnt if the
court sustains tho law. The stipula
tion nlso suspends nil litigation both
by tho rnllronds nnd thc government
fver the lnw pending the court's do-
crion.
EDWARD'S GROCERY CO. SPE
CIALS FOR HOLIDAY TRADE
Everything in Christmns Candy.
Western Uentity Flour, $5.00 cwt.
Just received a largo shipment of
npples for tho Holiday trade. Price.! .
are right and npples extra fine.
MINSTREL SHOW DEC. 19
The Woodmnn Circle will irivo n
measuring pnrty ami I minstrel show nt
the MaBonlc Hall Tuesday, Dec. 18 for
tho benefit of the Lodge. Everybody
invited to como and bo measured.
TREE WILL BE FILLED
WITH PLENTY FOR ALL
Plans for u community Chrlstmnu
rc Rowing into large proportions nnd
'rom tho outlook at tho present time,
thu u"tt,r at lhu onu 1,ouso ''"'
uvclllnB Hoe. 21, will be one of tho
rKCjtt events of this nature ever un-
durtnken by lucumcurl citizens. It
was announced in the newspapers lust
representing mu
Lpi.scopal and
calling upon
in tho city,
'tn ino rc(Uesi tnai tncy wick up tno
proposition and they now report that
'io fnr uvery organization that has been
cu,,c "I""1 nas "freed to back up the
,rornm n,ntl,l ussisl in cve,ry wn'
11 accomplishing thu purposes In view.
11 IH eri mut, an 01 i no peopic 01
'"c"nicnri will unilo in tho plnns for
w.hl,t is sometimes known as a "White
Christmas." In other words, lut cy
eryone this year endeavor to give rath
or than expect to receive. It is a well,
known fact thnt there i's considerable
Known iiici tnni inert is consiuerauit
poverty in Tucumcnri and h Quay
countv and it is desired that with the
L0U"i 'l ' ""iicu inai witn tne
issisinnco 01 an 01 tno org.mizaiions
in the city that these less fortunate
folks will be taken care of this Christ-1
Ilimn enmn ntttti In t Hn nntw in Ia
" 'o
f"p..,"5 will bo at ho
ctt ing tommittce will lie at the
house -nil. ay ay receive
i
i"B the day, rather than bring the
jamo Willi tnem to tne evening enter-
tninment. The committee in chartre
. . ...
. .. . "k "-
children nnd looking after all the fea-
lures of the entei tninment is com-
loscd of the following parlies: Mcs-
lames E. E. Clark, Elklns, Kerlin,
uinrkniim, uinveii, uuDUaru, Jurrcll.
McDnn,oIa LowiSi Dnvltlaon. and the
Misses Cynthin Elklns, Shelby, Arties J
r'ox and Rev. E. .). Hooring and Kid.
Norris J. Rensoner.
lie Tucumcnri Light & Power Co., hns
1. In.!!. ...I t At... -
. i- nill.ll. lllum-II LU1 lu luillinil LI I v
,.. ..... .... ........ ......
used during practice lor the pro
:inm and durini: tho entertainment
'nan. Hrown nnd Savage. Mrs. Shields.
ind Mrs. Simmons. In last week's is-
ue of thu newspapers a list of the or-
,'anizntions was given who would be
called upon to participate in the pro-
icet. Thc Yoemen wore not mention-
ud und this week a representative of
the Yoemen called up members of the
"ommittces nnd nnnounced that they I
desired to get behind the program and '
would donate $5 in ensh ns an organ!- ;
zation. Thu Eastern Stnrs also have ,
H donated $10 and the II. of L. E. have I
Intuited $l'.r.0. A complete list or ,
the organizations who are behind the
' mna. a Mtiitmiiii (nitrinnmrmt. wiu.ii... ..l t.. . i.
-ilan will bo furnished Inter A re-'
search committee composed of Mr. Fin-1
..gan, Prof. Shadwick, Mrs. Hess, and T- rnncker, who was married a
Mrs. Gerhurdt is now engaged in t!u,,h"rt time ago to Mrs. Ada Cowart,
scinching for fnmilic.i in need and
myono knowing of such cases are re
piested to report to this committee.
Kvory citizen in thc county Is invited
o line up und do nil he can to niuKe
-his big community proposition n sue-
cess.
nKK TRUCK MAKES GOOD TIME
A fire occurred in the cnst part of
.own inis mo.n ng .snomy niter nvo
I ClOCK. A. liOWCU, WHO OWnCU llllll
icsicicu in a small resilience, nan got-
1. 1. ...... i..i
'.en up. built Ills fire and gone out of
loors. When ho returned to the house
)t wns on fire on the inside und he was
uniiblc to enter. The ulnnn was given
and within four minutes after tho
whistle blew the department was on
thc ground nnd ready for business, but
there wns nothing left but the hull of
tho building.
It was reported that tho fire truck
was without gasoline and unable to
get to the fire hut this is not so, hut
there wns no gnsolino left for tho ma
chino to go buck to tho burn,
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Thoro will bo services ns usual at
tho Presbyterian church next Sunday
at 11 a. m. and 7:30 p. m.
Tho illustrated lecture in tho even-
ing will bo Perem with nbout 70 views.
I his lecture is free nnd you are cor
idlally invited to bo present,
I Sunday school 10 a. m.
INFORMATION RELATIVE TO
A LUX! I'D SPANISH (Sit A NT
Through the courtesy of .las. .1. Hall
senior member of tho James .1. Hall
& Co., Abstracters, the News is allow
ed to publish a letter which was writ
ten In answer to one Mr. Hall sent
in regard the the recent filing of the
liealcs (iraut. The answer is from the
Department of thu Interior General
Land Office at Washington, and Is
dated December 8, llUli, addrosned to
Mr. Hall, and rcaibi as follows:
"Tills office is in receipt of your let
ter of November 21, 1910, inclosing
memorandum abstracts of six instru
ments which have been filed in the
office of the Clerk and Ex-Omclo re
corder of Deeds of Quay county, New
Mexico.
"In reply you nre advised thnt this
grant has never been confirmed by
Congress or by the Court nf Private
Land Claims of Now Mexico and is
not recognized ns a valid grant. The
lielition to the Governor of tho SUite
sf Coahulln nnil Tcxns, on which thb
laim is founded is set forth in full
in the decree of the Supreme Court of
Jie United States in the case of Inter
state Land Company vs. Maxwell Land
Grant (1.10 U. S JiGO), in which It
was held that no title to any land pass
ed under this instrument. A bill wns
Introduced Into Congress nnd hearings
had thereon to permit these claimants
to present the evidence of their claim
to tho Court of Private Land Claim.
The bill failed to receive favorable con
sideration at the hnnds of Congress.
"Tho admission of instruments to
i il.f 1 .i ,
cia.m. in tno case cited tne
f,u',rum0 Court,ho ,,,tha th. i'im had
,leVur been perfected prior to the trcn-
ty of (Juadalupe Hidalgo and was not
(inuucivii ny virtue oi mat treatv. inis
aim was one of the class which was
expressly refused to bo recognized by
hn irmiiu .,i!in n r iv, :..:..i
" ...v.... tv ... vnu .JIIK..H.
(unit oi tne treaty nnving ucen strick-
on out by the Senate of the United
States.
"Very respectfully
' j, y. Bowman
Commissioner
UDGE HUNTER PERFORMS
WEDDING CERE.MONY
C. E. Hunter hns been appointed
justice of the peace by the County
Commissioners. He will also be np
pointed police judge. Mr. McElroy
rent in his resignation lust week. It
is sad to learn that Mr. McElroy is
not able to do the duties required by
that office and will not bu for some
time. He has made one of the bcstjencCi bc acen thllt this move Ia one
any community ever had. He dealt mlrciv nf nolltlcal motivt-s. a desire to
out justice to the rich and poor alike.
He was made for that place and it
came natural for him to fill it with
I.
honor.
Mr. Hunter has acted in that cn
pacity before. While at Guymon, Ok
lahoinn, he wns justice of the pence,
and it comes natural for him to be
'ailed "judge" once more. Tho first
act of nolo was the marriage ceremony
Wednesday when he united J. M. York
and Miss Julia Mossmun both of Rnna,
in the holy bonds of wedlock. He did
the job like n veterin nnd the couple
went away happy.
RAN SPLINTER IN HIS
FINGER-DIES FROM
BLOOD POISONING
I 01 city, men .unnuny irum mooa
poisoning und wns hurried Ihursduy
afternoon in Sunnyside cemetery.
Mr. Thneker nnd Mrs. Cowart were
married Dec. 1st. They went from
here to Mrs. Cownrt's farm south of
Hnnley and resided there only n few
lays. Mr. Thackcr ran a splinter un
der u finger nnil und it hurt ho badly
he went to Montoyn for medical aid.
His linger was treated but he would
not ,ct tho (loctol. ,nncc the fln er ln
,.,l . ,.mn,. .l, fPor, c.l.ut.m
: ...
,.,i ,i f( .i.,.i .
;...,. him consi(IPrabIe nnd swelled un
seemingly containing corruption. Ho
ran his knifo into it nnd let the sub-
stnnce out, but blood poison set in
nnd he canto to the Tucumcari hospital
and had his finger amputated. It was
too late, however, because tho poison
was circulated throughout the whole
system and ho died Monday.
Tho remains wero hold until rela
tives -In tho cast wero notified. A
nephew, II. D. Thneker, of Chllllcotho
Ohio, nrrived yesterday and nrrange
mcnts wero made immediately for tho
funeral.
Mr. Thackor wns born in Ohio 74
years ago, Ho lived in Kansas about
30 years before coming to Now Mex
ico. Ho lenves u brother and sister
in Ohio nnd numerous friends. His
untimely death which came so sud
denly after tho wedding nuptinls, cre
ated much surprise nnd sympathy,
from tho friends of his wife
'REPUBLICAN LEADERS
OUST "OUAY"
FROM 8TH DISTRICT
That Republican leaders of Colfax
nnd Tnos counties will go before thu
next legislature with a plea to have
Quay county eliminated from the 8th
judicial district in order to assure thu
election of Republican judges und dis
trict attorneys in that district, is now
reported. The district is nt present
composed of Colfax, Taos, Union and
Quay counties, and thu Republicans
figure thnt thc elimination of thc big
Democratic county of Quay would give
them a safe lend. T. D. Lcib, tho pres
ent judge of tho Eighth district, is n
Democrat, and at the November elec
tion O. L. Phillips, Republican, for thu
position of district attorney, wns de
feated by II. A. Klkcr.
Just what thc Republicans of the
nor.th propose to do with Quay county
is not stated, but they might seek to
havu it included in the Fifth judicinl
district, which is now solidly Demo
cratic, hut which at present comprises
the important counties of Eddy, Chav
es, Roosevelt and Curry. Concerning
the reported Republican plan, the
Cimarron News-Citizen of lust week
says:
"Persistent rumors have it that the
next legislatufe will bo asked to di
vide this judicial district ur. the ground
that the expense of trnveling to nnd
from Tucumcnri, Quay county, is more
tfinn the county can well nfford. How
ever, no word to this effect hns been
henrd from the plains city metropolis,
nnd it is genernlly believed thnt the
innovation is desired by men who have
political aspirations in view for the
near future.
"Thc genenrl supposition is that the
innovation, ns planned, or rumored.,
would assure Republican victory in the
next enmpaign for the district attor
ney, which wns lost to the Democrats
at the recent election. Quay county is
a Democratic stronghold nnd with it
out of thc wny, it would be an easy
matter to win office in tho future slncu
Colfnx nnd Tnos show n good Repub
lican majority to canily overcome the
Democratic vote of Union county.
"While the Eighth judicinl district
covers n Inrge urea, the counties of
Taos, Colfax, Union nnd Quny, yet it
is no larger nor more inconvenient of
access than the First judicinl district,
which comprises thc counties of Snntn
Fe, Rio Arriba nnd San Junn, from ap
proximately the center of the state to
the most northwesterly county. It
...ml,i !,.. frnm ,u ... ne Pnn'vpni
I re- over lost ground by wiping out the
county,
power.'
which holds the balance of
LINEN SHOWER AT MUIR.
HEAD'S FOR MISS SANDUSKY
One of the most pleasant social
events of the season wns a linen show
ur given nt the home of Mrs. T. A.
Muirhead by Misses Syler and Mur
phy in honor of Miss Mionettc San
dusky, whose marriage to Mr. Jeff.
Harrison occurs December 20.
The Muirhcnd home was beautiful
ly decorated with cut flowers nnd the
color scheme of red nnd green was
enrried out in thc decorations nnd re
freshments. Misses Giirdner, Stearns, Snndusky
nnd Mrs. Leon Snnds favored tho
guests with several vocal nnd instru
mental numbers.
A two-course luncheon was served
by Misses Syler nnd Murphy nssistcd
by Mrs. Muirhead nfter which Miss
Sandusky wns escorted to the dining
room by Little Elsie Muirhead, where
the linen had been beautifully ur-
ranged. The gifts were numerous nnd
beautiful. Those prcscnt were mem
bers of the N.O.N. Club. Missus Gan.
Sandusky. Stearin.', Horn, Taylor, Koch
Lorke, King, Syler and Murphy.
Mesdnmes Iluelcr. Snnds, Jennings,
nnd Kohn, nnd special guests Misses
Gnrdner nnd Johnson, Mesdnmes Hess,
Crimm, Codington, Syler. Snndusky
and Muirhead were also present.
METHODISTS ARE HLACKING
THE WHITE ELEPHANT
The "White Elephant" is rapidly be
coming the "Hlnck Elephant." He is
dying by degrees. The last report
will be made next Sundny morning.
Come out nnd hear it. Services ns
usual. The Dedication Scrvicu is post
poned. Preaching nt II o'clock; sub
ject: "Tho Christinn Church a Fam
ily." At 7:50 thu subject will bo Pre
pare for nn Emergency.
Sunday school nt 0:45.
Junior nt 3 p. m.
Epworth Lcaguo 0:30.
Come, you are welcome at all theso
services. E. D. Lewis.
KNOW THYSELF
Do you want to travel or make mon
ey ? Man or woman without experience
I enn touch you in 10 days a business
thnt I can guarantee $8 to $20 per day
and tho price is in tho reach of all.
Call and be convinced. Phone No. 2,
Rhodes residence on East Main St
