FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
Dail;
nJUIournal
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 269
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1916
uoino morn nwna ON TRAINS AND
l IVIV ,j IvF 0 rAVT)8rnr cent.
Ptl PII0 RECEIVED WITH CONTEMPT IN ENGLAND
Hi TELLS FRENCH TO LOOK
FOR POISON IN GERMAN OFFERS
PRESIDENT DISPATCHES
A NEW INDUSTRY
I
j Portland, Or., Doc. 14 A
new industry the "jack rab-
I bit business" it in sight in Ore-
i gon today. Thousands of jaek
; rnbbits have appeared in the in-
1 terior. Many ranchers are kill-
injr them, collecting five cents a
! head bounty from the state, sell-
i ing the remains to butchers t
! $5 a dozen and preparing the pelts
i to be made into rabbit fur hats.
I
CONDITIONS ARE
INDESCRIBABLE
SOUTH OF BORDER
PUTS WALL STREET IN UNITED STATES HAS
TEUTON OFFER TO ALLIES a panicky condition been misinformed
j i ii
Leading English Journalist Says: 'Trance, Russia, Italy vdM to Unload Causes Break Germany Says Isolation of
Little Belfrium Are Finn As Plymouth RockM-Feeline in --WUU Mares oifl v n
Disease and Starvation Take
Two -Thirds of City's
Population
England Is That Answer Should Make Clear the Basic
Terms On Which Peace Would Re Considered
During Day
Deportation
Revlirt vtn RnvvUln ivlia1nac Tin.. 1.4
' The Herman government thinks the
enes from the slump caused by peace j United .States has been incorreetly in
proposals on Tuesday were made on the formed about the cause and executions
stock exchange today. 0f the measures and therefore considers
United States Steel sold at 120 3-8, lit appropriate to explain the facts in
up half; Central Leather gained 1,' detail.
opening at 100; International Pnper The Nord Deutsche Allgeimcnc de-
fidrmanv's hpicp nrminsak flrP due i 801(1 UP '" Uta1i ColPe'' and I dares today, quoting that it is Gei
UCIIlUUl t JJtcll.e jjiupucti& ijic "ucohiUOi Crucible was down half ut'many's answer to the American pro-
7. lest ugiiinst the deportation oi Bel-
Jin have not been allowed to indicate, that during the last ZXmJZ text Germany, note follows:
"feV Weeks erave internal dissensions have arisen, OWingl Tuesday after the anonuncomont of ."Belgian unemployment for consider
il tW Vnr1 thnrtO- rmrl thf irivn-nf terrni- (Germany's peace proposals. It ex. able tune has been extending in per-
to the looa shortage ana tne reign 01 lenoi. I tended to tn0 euro where breaks of 1 uii'1,,)""s lashion among industrial work-
Moreover, relations have been greatly Strained be- (i points were made by munition stocks. '"K11- lms Prevailing unemployment
11UI,, ' . X. ..... J ..-J Ll J offered some resistance to tlie cd by the Eng ish policy
general excitement on the. exchange,, w
"l h '" VB , tonal and tie exportation of manutao-
tlie hammering or heavy sales. td allll !h.,s broueht a maior-
By Lord Northcliffe,
(Written for the United Press. Copyright 1916 by the
United Press; copyrighted in breat Britain.;
London. Dec. 14
to the fact which interned neutral correspondents in Ber
WOMEN WHILE BEGGING
nitcm uuu uuiug
Down the Toboggan
Chicago. Dec. 14. Trade was slow
today, speculators preferring to await
developments, after two days of tumult
uous fluctuations. Nervousness is ex
pected to contiuue until the question of I
speedy peace is settled. December wheat 1
was down to $1.53 at noon, 1-1 point
below today's opening and one point
under yesterday's close: May was quot
ed at ft.W 1-4, 1 3-4 below the opening,
end 2 1-4 below yesterday's close; July
was $1.41 &-., 2 .)- below today's op
ening, and 2 1-4 below yesterday's close.
Corn was quiet and easier. Decem
ber was down half at SS 3-4; Mav down
.'i-4 at 00 1-4. and duly down I at 90.
Oats were lower. December was down
5-S at 49 1-2; May down 7-S at 53 1-8,
and July down 5-S at 50 1-2.
Provisions were higher.
BRITAIN'S ANSWER
DIE FROM LACK OF FOOD
The Government Appropriates
Corn, Sent by Red Cross,
to Starving People
tween the various German and Austrian states and also
with Turkey.
The Prussian government also has learned that the
British empire will, during 1917, put forth an effort equal,
at least, to that of Germany in 1914 and from the point
f view of guns and shells, three times that of Germany
at any period of the war.
The proposals have been received here with contempt.
We are gratified that the American senses of humor
and justice have seen through this bluff.
France, Russia, Italy and little Belgium are firm as
Plymouth Rock.
Will fiegret Proposals I but before that rejection they intend
London, Dec. 14. The caution, j to scrutinize every word in the note
led bV; u euauceuvr s jjcrup mm iuuwk
meanings auu 10 weiii an cicuuiruaie.
es oi' its delivery carefully.
Popular approval was emphatically
' watch out; take care, soiiiu
Premier Briaud in his address to the
French chamber of deputies, will also
lie Kngland 's guidance in scrutinizing
t ie German peace proposals.
After the first shock of the news of
Germany's peace plan nnd the first
i", ;wtanTaucous decision to reject it,
tliere came todav. with a strengthening
if this determination not to make the
peace Germany craves, the belief that
England anil her allies ought closely to
i famine the eir Constance, of the Tcu
i inic move. 1'ioss and public alike were
jnore than ever convinced today that
hpmo "German trick was behind the
roller. ' '
Most apparent in the German offer
j,- the attempt '." gain the sympathy
of neutrals, An attempt to create dis-i-.-nsion
among the entente allies rx bo
Jieved to bo otic consideration of the
ivote and the chancellor's speech, Last
ly, I'ne British public believes the Ger-
an government desired to make a
'play'' to the German people to sup
port the ot't repeated cry that OeraWny
- merely defending herself against en
etnie who fon i-l a war upon her. ICug
land believes Ihore is every indication
of popular uuresi in Ge-rmeny, due to
shortage of. food and the staggering
losses of men and ' material which she
l as undergone since 1914.
Knulnnd and her allies, therefore, in
tend to reject the peace proposals-
registered to the first official answer
to Germany ' bid for peace made for
France by Premier tiriand. He spoke
to the chamber of deputies, outlining
the aims mid policies of the reconstruct
ed PrenCh government and in connec
tion with the explanation tOOK occa
sion solemnly to warn France and her
allies to watch for the "poison in
the Teutonic offer.
By Webb Millet.
(United Press-staff correspondent.)
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 14. Affidavits
by an American mining man describing
terrible economic'conditions now pre
vailing in Central Mexico as a result of
continuous revolutions, were forwarded
to Washington today by United States
department agents here.
The mining man's statement is one of
the few first hand storieH of Mexican
interior conditions to reach the federal
authorities from authentic sources-
"From a beautiful city of 40,000 per
sons," the statement reads, "Guanajua
to, the capital of that state, has been
reduced to about .15,000 by tho ravages
of disease and starvation. In the last
nearest of panic proportions seen on mMri im.,ot hnlf of thn Helirian i four months the death rate from starva-
the stock exchange in years. At 8:23 'factories' workingmen, that number in tion and disease has been more than
the official stock exchange ticker had ! r0Und figures, l,i!00,000, view that these I 70 per day. I have seen women, beg
not yet caught up with closing sales, j measures are in contravention of hu-iffing in the streets, die from lack of
so great was the dumping of stocks. 1 mane principle of international prac-ifood. I counted 10 dead in an hour enr-
United States Steel was reported sevteu tice as to the treatment oi the populated past my residence on stieet iron
points off at one time. lation of the occupied territory. stretchers. I saw one man executed for
During the last hour 750,000 shares I "The German government thinks stealing a blanket and four prominent
The break was the worst and "thei hy of gigUm work to n standsnill. By
(Continued on page two.)
(Continued on page two.)
LATEST STATEMENT
Austrian Cabinet Resigns
Fighting Slackens Two
Steamers Sunk
(Continued on page six.)
Some of the Leading Figures In
the Political Life of Great Britain
Would State Peace Terms
By Ed li. Keen
(United Press staff correspondent)
London, Dec. 14, Sentiment increas-i
ed today in favor of including in Kng
land 's answer to the German peace a
clear and explicit definition of the al
lies ' basic terms.
It is certain the Answer will be a!
rejection of the proposal at this time, j
but it is felt in many quarters that the;
allies should meet the German diplo-l
matic strategy in sending the note by
a counter move which would put the!
allies as the first of the two sides toj
make known delinite demands and con-j
cession.
The Pall Mall Gazette's comment was:
typical today of this view. it. said:
" " We do not see why the allies should
not turn the incident to their profit;
by a fresh and vigorous proclamation,
of the fundamentals of our own cause'
and the conditions without which they;
felt bound to regard any sortiof fceaee
a mere springboard .for a still more ter-j
rible conflict. It is an unique opportu-j
nity to acquaint the whole world with'
the real issues.
"The essence of the allies' answer j
must uecesairily be that peace without;
justice is immoral and that peace, with-;
out safety, is a mere delusion.''
Thers' no stay at-home vote 'mongst
tk ' women. Th' only way t' keep from
laakin' mistake-, is t' stand still.
Offer is Forwarded
By Robert J. Bender
(United Press staff correspondent)
Washington, Dec. 14 America's liist
step toward carrying out the wishes
of Germany and the central powers, as
their diplomatic representatives in en
tente allied capitals, was taken today.
Within a few hours afer receipt of
the official text of the Teuton peace
proposals, which was almost identical
with the text carried in press dispatch
es, Secretary Lansing at the president s
order
Petrotrra
al cat.itals of Knmania, Serbia and Bel-(was raise.:
ThP Halted States represents Ger-iCrisis of last year brought
many in llciuium. nussia, (.rear nru
ain
Liberal cabinet when tin
crisis of last year brought down" the
whole government and which was dc
France Japan, Serbia and Human- signed to inspire complete public confi-
3FmBm
m li v
By CarJ W. Ackerman
(United Press staff correspondent)
Derlin, Dec. 14'. Despite Germany 's
peace proposals, Field Marshal Von
Ulndanburg ' declaration that tliere
will be no rest this winter si'll stands.
A military authority today repeated
this quotation of the field marshal's
remarks in commenting on the fact that
Germany weighed carefully the peace
question before announcement was
made knowing that Knglnnd did not
desire peace because the alMe intended
to launch nu enormous spring offens
ive. A Stubborn Fight
Petrogrnd, Dec. 11. 'Tho enemy con
tinued attacks toward IHizeu Tuesday"
today s official statement said.
"Cavalry and infantry detachments
met the enemy west and southwest oi
lluzen. Our cavalry advancing' west
wards a4 co-operating with infantry,
fought a stubborn battle."
Two Steamers Sunlr.
London, Dec 14. Loss of the Brit
ish steamers Darlington and llnrly,
with their crews and the sinking of
the British stea r Saint Ursula, was
announced by Lloyd's late today.
The Darlington 's BMW had been pick
ed up by the steamer Harly lifter the
rfftrlington sank, Then the iinrly sank.
Austrian Cabinet Quits
Amsterdam,, Dec. 14. Resignation
of the Austrian cabinet was announced
in dispatches receive! today from Vi
enna. Alexander Splttmucllct is to at
tempt formation of a new ministry.
If the Austrian cabinet has resigned
it lias attained the unique record of
lasting for a shorter period than any
ministry of recent years in any Knni
pcan country unless it be Greece. Dr.
(Continued on page two.)
TWENTY KILLED
With ouly such changes in its impor
taut divisions as thcloss of Lurl Kitche
ner on the warship Hampshire made ne-;
cessary, the British cabinet which Pre
mier Asauith has been seeking to recon- j
struct is the same widely heralded
the evening of May 25, 1015. when the
personnel of the new cabinet was an
nounced, rumors of changes begun to
I circulate. Again and again they were
quieted. Bcsignatiiuis were few, and
when personal reasons influenced a mill
istcr to quit one post efforts were al
; most invariably made to find another
; for him, so that the personnel of the
cabinet has remained much the same for
its nineteen months' of existence
Explosion in Kansas Coal
Mine Fatal to One-Third
of Workers
IS VOTE OF If Oil
10 CONTINUE WAR
Chancellor Asks for $2,000,
000,000 and 1,000,000
More Men
$18,759,240,000 IS COST
OF WAR TO END OF YEAR
England Is Spending $27,
907,700 Daily to Maintain
Conflict
London, Dec- 14. England tool steps
today for further financing of the war
and to provide more men for tho bat
tle fronts.
With announcement of Germany's
peace proposals only 4S hours old, the
Lloyd-Goorge government made its
fownal apepnrance in the house of com
mons nnd Andrew Honor Law, chancel
lor of the exchequer, asked for a new
vote of credit of 1,0-1 8,000,000.
In addition a supplementary estimate
v.tis issued providing for an addition of
one million men of all ranks lor tho
army, raising the total estimate for tho
year to 5,000,000.
The new chancellor of the exchequer
announced that, with the new vote of
icdit, the war to date will have cost
Kngland the staggering total of $18,
750,240,000 by the end of the present
fiscal year. Fnglnnd is spending ap
proximately .1127,907,700 a day in her
warfare now.
On announcing these new plans for
future conduct of the war, Houar Lw
took occasion to assert that so far no
peace proposals have yet reachod the
government.
One other hint of far reaching rr
forms contemplated by the Lloyd
George government was given in Bonar
Law's statement that creation of two
new ministers of food and labor wero
contemplated. He explained to the
house of comomns that David Lloyd
George, the new premier, was undr
doctor's orders not to see visitors now,
not having recovered from his illnera.
The other feature of today's note
worthy session of the common! was ans
wering the queries by Lord Robert Ce
cil, new minister of blockade, asserting
that it was tho new government's in
tention to enforce rights of belligerents
with us little irksomenesa to neutrals
ns possible. He also announced that the
cabinet was hurrying to formulate de
mands on Greece with a view to clear
ing up the situation there.
Weir City. Kan., Dec. 14.- Twenty
miners were killed and seven Injured
by the explosion in the Mayer mine No.
U, Reedy and Byen, 12 miles west of
here, yei-terdny afternoon, it became
known here today.
Although the explosion occurred yes
terday afternoon, definite details as to
fatalities ciuld not be learned until to
day. A combination gns and powder explo
sion is believed to have been the
cause.
Those killed were either burned or
suffocated. Most of the dead were for
eigners. 1 1 v 1 11 ! al .-voile i uv. n is ni
House of Lords Dismisses
Appeals and Ends Long
Drawn Out Suit
London. Dec. 14. Curly-headed lift to
"Teddjr" Silingsby, for months buffet
ed between wealth ami nameless pov
erty, was sent from the portals of 1h
house of lords today, held by that body
to bo a penniless foundling of Iho
Street of Snu Francisco and not Ibn
young Knglish gentleman that his pa
rents have daisied him.
The house of lords, upon presentation
of the case of "Teddy" dismissed the
appeal from a court of appeals decision
Hint he is not the legitimate son of Mr.
(Continued on
page two.)
As it vas organized in May of last known definitely how many were in the
dispatched it to London. Paris,!"""". mme
grad Tokio and to the provision-1 "coal.t.ov. " or national, cabinet which
51-1.! m d "T. ew.h(J rimA Rt.lwas raised from the wreck of the old
admiralty
. . , 1 J.... ttt.fl anr.T.nrl
is. Sue represenis Ausiria-iiuugary iuiu.
the same
in a rein vigors ted !
year the cabinet was compiled of twelve
; Liheralsreigbt I nionists, one J.ahonte
and one non partisan, the last Karl Kitchener.
The new cabinet just coming into
power has Lloyd-George as premier, As-
I . , r " 1;"..
(puill retiring irinu uiuriui inc.
Accompanying pictures show 1, mr
mine at the time of the explosion, but it
is believed tliere were 00. I hirty-tnree
escaped uninjured from the side op
posite that where the exphrsion occur
red. With the 20 dead and seven in
jured 00 have been acocunted for Mine
officials say they believe this is all the
men in the mine-at the time or me ex-
THE WEATHER t
! Kdward Carson,, mentioned for place in plosion but are not sure.
epresenis Austria n ungury "r 7'T " ,,,, ttnr nnnr. been beset with difficulties, attacked onhint . m i iov ..Geonre: 3. Bonar Law. I An official investieation of the cause
entlT is has failed of its purpose. ,ty criticism and, in some instances, di-1 with Mrs. Asquith; 4, Viscount Grey; 5,of the explosion will be made immedi-
1 From the dsy of its formation iyhad ; vided against itself. Beginning with .Balfour; 0, Asquith. Jstely.
(Continued on page -ii.)
Oregon: To
night and Fri
day fair, con
tinued cold; east
erly winds.
