X~..,
TO THE ADVERTISER
MA
labor paper of 2,000 circulation is
a better advertising medium than an
ordinary paper of J2,000 circulation."
Printers Ink, the highest authority on
advertising mediums.
VOL. 23, NO. 63.
Greeting:
"The Union Label Trades depart­
ment of the American Federation of
Labor desires to officially inform the
local unions, their officers and indi­
vidual members, that the 'Mephisto'
auger bit is strictly union made.
„. "The Manufacturers' association is
trying to pre /ent the sale of this bit.
This was to be expected, but ite is
even going so far as trying to cripple
^the business of the Ives company by
urging both jobbers and retailers not
to handle them. But the dealers will
handle them and so will the jobbers
If the union men will demand them.
"Your organization is hereby re­
quested to take the following action:
"First—Pass a motion instructing
every member to buy none but the
•Mephisto' auger bit.
"Second—Have your local union ap
„point a committee to visit all hard­
ware stores and dealers and demand
th.it they handle this union-made bit.
"Third—Continue the agitation for
all union-made products.
"Let every member of your local
insist on being supplied with tjiis
UNION LABEL USED BY CO.
JOBBERS BOYCOTT PRODUCT
WALLINFORD, Conn., Oct. 25.—For 75 years the W. A. Ives
Manufacturing company, tool manufacturers, successfully conducted
their plant and treated their employes squarely. One day a com­
mittee from the union label department of the Amercan Federation
cf Labor called on C. J. Benliam, the president, and tried to per­
suade him to conduct his plant on a closed shop basis and adopt the
union label. He said he would think it over.
Then one day he made his decision which was to cast his lot witty
labor. He adopted the union label on his principal manufactured
article, the Mephisto bit. Every man in his employ is a union
man and belongs to one or the other of the Metal Trades unions.
Twenty-four hours after Benham placed the union label on his
bit, two orders amounting to over $6,000 were cancelled.
The manufacturers' association*of America passed out the word
to "kill the Mephisto bit." The Ives people were "establishing a
bad precedent."
And the Ives company is fighting for its life.
According to C. Jr Benham, president of the Ives company, the
unionization of his plant increased his cost 23y2 pe'r cent.
The following action is recom-^
mended by Thomas F. Tracy, secre­
tary of the union label departnent
of the A. F. L,.:.
"To All Affiliated Organizations,
Union-made bit, and give their moral
assistance to the international organ­
izations whose members are employed
by this firm under union conditions.
"Relying on your assistance in this
direction, I remain,
"Yours fraternally,
(Signed) "THOMAS F. TRACY,"
Secretary-Treasurer Union Label
Trades Dept. of the A. F. of L.
II. S. JUDGES IRE
MCHISTS-M
QUINCY, 111., Oct. 26.—The anar­
chists of the country are the injunc­
tion granting courts, according to
John Frey, editor of the Molder's
Journal, speaking before the Illinois
State Federation of Labor 1 -re today.
Frey is also an executive officer of
the International Molder'j Union.
Frey's speech in part, follows:
"The anarchists of this country are
not the organized laboring men, but
the injunction-granting courts, when
their injunctions deny the constitu­
tional rights of organization.
We have government by judges as
well as a government by law. And in
cases of judge-made law we find a
millstone about the neck of labor.
"You were told that if you gave
money or help to some strikers in Chi­
cago you would be put in jail for con­
tempt of court. We can make it im
ossible for any judge to sit on the
"bench and overthrow our constitu­
tional rights."
Resolutions asking Governor Dunn
to investigate the armed thugs at
Rosiclaire were also adopted.
CAPITALISTS' PARADISE
Elbert H. Gary, president of
the United States Steel Corpora­
tion favors the building of plants
of his company in Japan.
Tt
is a
crime in Japan for any person or
organization to agitate the ques­
tion of shorter hours or more
pay. The government has ap­
propriated 270,000 yen to pre­
vent such agitation. This is an
Ideal place for Mr. Gary's com­
pany, and besides If the Japan­
ese-American war scare is kept
up the 'Steel corporation will be
malfing money both ways.
POLISH
wii
TELLS HIS STOHY
A great big hulk of a man with in­
nocent baby eyes stood looking^out of
the bars in th^ St. Louis county jail.
The interpreter spoke rapidly to him
in his own language. The baby eyes
lighted up and filled with tears. Ges­
ticulating, the big man poured forth
his tale, in melodious strange sound­
ing words.
It was the first time that John Or
landich had been able to make him­
self clearly understood since he was
imprisoned. Orlandich, Tresca, Scar­
lett, Cernogorovich, Nickich and Ma
sonovich, Iron .Range miners, who
went on a strike, are all in jail
charged with murder. The people of
Minnesota, through their governrr^nt,
claim that these men killed James
Myron, a special deputy, during the
Range strike.
Oi'landich doesn't even know why
he is in jail. He asked the interpreter
if he had broken any laws by refus­
ing to .work. The trials are to start
Dec. 5.
BENSON PREDICTS
WILSON VICTORY
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Oct. 25.—
Woodrow_ Wilson will be elected
president, according to the statement
of Allan L. Benson, Socialist candi­
date for president, made here in a re­
cent speech in the Scottish Rite audi­
torium.
"Although I am 'fighting both
Hugthes and Mr. Wilson," stated Ben­
son, "I freely admit I have no chance
for election and think that Wilson
will be re-elected."
MILWAUKEE WINS EIGHT
HOUR WORK-DAY FIGHT
MADISON, Wis., Oct. 24—The Wis­
consin supreme court today sustained
the validity of the ordinance ^nacted
by the city of Milwaukee under a So­
cialist administration, prohibiting the
employment of labor on public works
contracts more than eight hours a
day.
The case in point was that of the
city of Milwaukee against a contrac­
tor named Conrad Raaulf, Jr.
D0NT LIKE BONUSES
BALTIMORE, Oct. 26.—About 500
employes of the Uoole Engineering
and Machinery company are on strike
against the present system of giving
bonuses and want an increase of 15
per cent in wages.
JOE SCHMIDT OUT OF
JAIL TO VISIT WIFE
Joe Schmidt, I. W. W., charged
with murder, was released on bail
from the St. Louis county jail last
night and left for Scranton, Pa., im­
mediately. His wife is in a serious
condition.
Mrs. Schmidt just gave birth to a
baby which died and. friends fear for
her life. She has been worrying over
her husband'si Imprisonment.
As soon as\ possible Schmidt will
return with his wife and he will vol
-untarily re-enter the jail-
S°M
*£00(i
Harris Bennett
Curtain rises showing Republicans
latest song hit of the Republicans:
8 W
Labor .world.
I
FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE, ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, OCTOBER 28,1916.
ANYTHING TO BEAT WILSON
A BURLESQUE
By H.M.
ACT 0&E.
Dramatis Personae.
rm? 7?1ai?nxr "m *u .Who Admits He is the Best Lawyer in the State
The Duluth News Tribune Guardian Angel of the Steel Trust
The Associated Press
Frank Makowsky .Chairman of the Democratic County Committee
Darnel W. Lawler Candidate for the U. S. Senate on the Democratic Ticket
iT- Former Governor of Minnesota and Special Envoy to Mexico
Republican Ward Heelers Who Work for Their Party Because of Their Love for the Peepul
The People
observing
Time: 1916.
Scene: Duluth.
"We love the peepul, we love the peepul,
Wilson is all wrong
We love the peepul, we love the peepul,
Oh, join us in our song.
We love the peepul, we love the peepul,
Because Wall Street is sore."
Enter Associated Press with story of Roosevelt-Taft love fest.
Giggles from Republican ward heelers who haven't lost their sense of humor.
News Tribune: "Hush! This is a sacred meeting between two great leaders of the peepul.
are going to SAVE the country from Wilson."
Gives voice to story as proving united Republican party spirit.
Frank Makowsky (commenting on story): "Frriends, Americans, and Fellow-Countrymen, I come
not to praise Hughes, but to bury him."
Twinkle in People's •eye.
"Tribune (frowning at Makowsky): Ladies fend Gentlemen! "Our leading exponent "of the
terpsichorean art will now give an exhibition of the latest Republican dance, entitled, "Stumping
With a Hammer, or, Anything to Beat Wilson."
Hood, bowing, steps to the front of the stage and begins dance which consists of a series of wild
whirls around stage, opening and closing his mouth, but saying nothing and waving his arms. Dance
ends, Hood bows, and Republican ward heelers, after looking at one another, break into wild applause.
News Tribune: "That proves that the People are with us."
Neil Beaton: "Yes, the People are with us. Let's tell them how weak Wlison was in his Mexican
policy, and how the Mexicans confiscated church property and indulged in all sorts of barbarities."'
JohnLind: "Now that's odd. I never knew Mexicans confiscated church property. Why, no
church has been allowed to legally own property in Mexico since 1859."
Neil Beaton: "Oh, well, let's howl for preparedness and call on the People's patriotism and that
wilUmake our victory sure."
Harris Bennett (to Daniel W. Lawler): "Ever notice how a bum vaudeville act will always pull an
American flag and wildly wave it in order to 'get over?"
News Tribune: "Let us have another little song, entitled, "Hughes.'
News Tribune, Neil Beaton, Roy Hood, lead Republican ward heelers in following song:
First Verse.
"Wilson is a school teacher,
Not the kind, you see,
We want for president
Because he is so free.
Chorus:
"We want a man like Charlie,
Who loves what he calls
The famous rule'of reason,
And who stalls, stalls, stalls.
Second Verse.
"Wilson is a quiet man,
Who loves peace, not war.
Oh, please elect our Charlie,
Who'll make Steel common soar."
Repeat Chorus.
News Tribune: "Isn't that a pretty song?"
Neil Beaton: "Wonderful!"
John Lind: "And so typical of the Republican party."
Associated Press (thinking of Wilson): ''I like not yon Cassius' lean and hungry look.'"' (Pulls
picture of Taft from pocket and smiles.) Continues, "I would have about me fat men who eat well
and sleep o' nights."
Frank Makowsky (smiling): "Oh, what a fall was there, my countrymen."
Associated Press: "Here's something I forgot," and hands message to News Tribune.
News Tribune voices message under date of Oct. 22 with two seven column lines at top of front
page. Story records speech of Col. Wind Bag to effect that "When I was president, I spoke soft and
used a big stick, but President Wilson speaks big and uses a dish rage."
First Republican Ward Heeler (winking): "The Colonel is still getting away with it, isn't he?"
Second Republican Ward Heeler: "Yep isn't he a wonder? He put the Progressive party over
with that stuff until they found him out."
News Tribune: "Silence in the ranks."
Enter'Associated Press with dispatch. Hands it to News Tribune.
News Tribune tells of another rise in price of coal.
Long drawn sigh of satisfaction from Repbulican ward heelers.
First Republican Ward Heeler: "That no doubt is a retaliatory measure to make the People pay
for the anti-trust prosecutions.
Second Republican Ward Heeler: "Yes, and now we can use it against Wilson."
News Tribune: "But I've told the People something of the same kind before. Don't you re­
member last Sunday, Oct. 22, I showed a cartoon depicting labor reading a sign which said, 'A
sample of Democratic Prosperity? Prices of necessities rise 400 per cent, while wages only rise 20
per cent?'
Republican Ward Heeler: "That must be our Wall Street friends getting busy."
News Tribune: "I try so hard to tell the People what to do."
John Lind: "Never mind, you'll grow up some day and be a newspaper."
News Tribune: "Now for the finale of this act. Altogether, boys, our college yell."
Republicans all join in following yell:
"The hammer, the hammer, that is our emblem now,
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
Its lies are marching on." \v
Curtain—end of first act.
a a a a a a
IV
Leading Republican of St. Louis County
Guardian Angel of Wall Street
Democratic County Committeeman
'lined aip," led by the News Tribune, singing the following
They
INNESOTA
TrsOiri ??8t
BAYONNE, N. J., Oct. 25.—Strike
of Standard Oil employes came to an
end here tonight following a meet­
ing of the strikers when a decision
was reached to return to work.
Three thousand American workers
returned to work Wednesday morn­
ing, but many Poles and Hungarians
remained on strike until the meeting
when they, too, decided to call off the
walkout.
The strike lasted nine days, sftid in
the reign of disorder which charac­
terized the first week three were
killed ahd f^.ty injured, one of the
killed being a woman.
The company has steadfastly re­
fused to treat with the men until they
returned to work, but the strikers
were assured early in the week by
John A. Moffitt and John A. Smythe,
mediators of the Federal department
of Labor, that a return to work
would be followed by a raise in pay
within a reasonable time.
Mayor Employe of Company.
The strikers were handicapped by
the fact that the mayor of Bayonne
is employed by the Standard Oil
Company as one of its counsel and
that city politics was infused into
the situation.
The strikers, most of whom were
receiving $2.20 a day each, demand
a 30 per cent increase for all receiv­
ing under $3 a day, and a 20 per
cent increase for those receiving
more than $3 a day.
The plants affected were the
Standard Oil Company of New Jer­
sey, the Tidewater Oil Company, the
Vacuum Oil Company, the Interna­
tional Nickel Company, the General
Chemical Company, the I'rcific Coast
Borax Company, the Southern Cotton
Seed Oil Company, and the Columbia
Oil Company. While only-about 3,500
men were on strike 8,500 others were
thrown out of work.
VAN LEAR, SOCIALIST,
MINNEAPOLIS FAVORITE
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., Oct. 27.—
Prom all indications, the next mayor
of Minneapolis will be Thomas Van
Lear, Socialist candidate. Van Lear,
who has been identified -with the
labor movement for years, h^s been
indorsed by almost every" labor body
in the city. His opponents refuse to
meet him in debate, and ar$ figihting
shy of all issues that hev raises. At a
recent mass meeting here In the
Auditorium where Van Lear was
scheduled to debatfe with one of his
opponents, every seat in the hall was
filled and hundreds were turned from
the doors His opponent failed to ap­
pear.
PRESSMENGET RAISE
ST. JOSEPH, Mb., Oct. 26.—The
Printing Pressmen's union has just
closed, an agreement' with, the em­
ployers for an increase" of IVt cents
in wages. It was secured after con­
ferences which were continued for
•everal day*
A"€OOD TRADE UNIONIST
always be
BRUTAL GUARDS ASSAULT
WOMEN TEXTILE WORKERS
By DANTE BARTON.
Member Industrial Relations Committee.
NEW YORK, Oct. 26.—Right in the heart of central New York,
prosperous and boasting of its wealth, there is now an example of
cruelty, incompetence and lawlessness against striking workers which
rivals the things done in Colorado by the Rockefeller interests, or on
the Mesaba range or in Pittsburgh, by the Steel trust.
Just outside of Utica, in the little town of New York Mills, 2,700
Polish men and women, industrious and peaceful, are being thrown out
of company houses, terrorized and assaulted by armed thugs and
guards, their children sickened and in many instances killed by the
diseases of exposure themselves and their familes subjected to star­
vation and sickness.
These things are being perpetrated against them by their employer,
the New York Mills corporation, of which A. D. Juilliard, New York
city, is the responsible president, because they have struck for a 10
per cent increase of wages that are too low, by any standard, for
decent living.
These statements are made after personal investigation by the
writer.
These striking weavers and spin­
ners have been forced to live in com­
pany houses, many of them in bad
repair, most of them overcrowded,
and many of them infected by inde­
scribably filthy privies, set within a
few feet of the kitchen and living
room doors.
intemgentl7
%.*fc iJ^H'rormed of the movements of his
own kind.
in-
In one such, company house a very
poor widow "lived with five,-small chil­
dren, ranging in age from two to five
years. This woman was a worker
in the mills. Her wages before the
strike had been seven dollars a week,'
from which the company deducted
one dollar a week for house rental.
Every three months $1.40 wafc
charged her for water. Not as far as
10 feet from the door of the room in
which the widow's babies slept was
a privy, a broken door, foul and hor­
rible.
Companies Violate LAWS.
One of these same law-violating
privies was maintained by the com­
panies in the backyard of the miser­
able cottage that is now being used
as a hospital for the very sick chil­
dren of the workers. The warning
sign, "Infantile Paralysis," is posted
on the front door.
In the adjoining house children
lived, and were playing in the yards
of the "hospital" and the house with
no fence, between.
A short time a'go A. D. Juilliard,
president of the company that thus
exposes the lives of little children,
gave a hospital boat to the city of
New York for the use of little chil*
dren.
N.Y.T
TRUST WEAKENING
NEW YORK, Oct. 25.—Despite the
claims of the street railway com*
panies that the carmen's strike has
been broken, the fact remains that
the companies are operating fewer
cars, giving poorer service, and are
*losin^r money.
A citizens' committee, of which the
Rev. Dr. Stephen S. Wise is chair­
man, met Thursday afternoon to hear
a report of Dr. George Price, ,Direct
or of the Joint Board of Sanitary
Control, whom it recently engaged to
ascertain the actual strike situation.
The committee did not tabulate Dr.
Price's figures on thj actual number
of cars running, but summarized his
conclusions and submitted a report
from the Police Department showing
that the service on all lines of the
City at 8 o'clock last Monday morning
varied between 20 and 61 per cent of
normal.
IT'S ABOUT TIME
MONONGAHEI/A, Pa., Oct. 26.
—The spirit of unionism has en­
tered the ranks of domestics
here, a union was formed and a
wage scale adopted.
It was stated that owing to the
Increase- in cost of living, and
the many duties added to the
work qf women, they were justi­
fied in making a demand for more
wages. Accordingly they adopted
the following schedule:
Working hours, 8 a. m. to 4
p. m. wages per day, $1.75, an
increase of 25 centy overtime 25
cents an hour one-half day's
work, $1.
In the cases of girls working
by the week, the increase will be
92 week.
I
I
