VOL LV11I. NO. 260
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1916
PRICE TWO CENT
16 PAGES 128 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is DouL ' cof Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
RUMANIA IN THE GRIP
OF INVADING FORCES
Struggling Desperately to Ward Off Incessant Attacks
of Von IVIackensen and Von Falkenhayn
HIRSOVA IS NOW THREATENED BY TEUTONS
On the Transylvania Front to the North of Predeal the Russo
, Rumanian Forces Have Repulsed .Austro-German At
tacks Stormy Weather is Retarding Operations on the
Somme and Macedonian Fronts There Has Been Little
Fighting in the Zone in Russia Two German Tor
pedo Boat Destroyers Were Sunk in the English Chan
nel in Engagement With British--The British Lost an
Empty Transport.
Rumania, caught in the grip of two
Invading forces of the central powers.
Is BtiU struggling desperately to ward
off the incessant attacks of Field Mar
Bhal von Jlackensen end General von
Falkenhayn.
Advancing northward in Dobrudja,
Von Mackensen's troops have reached
a lino running from Hirsova, on the
Danube, to Casapkeui. on the Black
Sea coast, from forty to sixty miles
from where they crossed the Constan-a-Tchernavoda
railway line. The
capture of Hirsova would give to the
Teutonic allies the advantage of hav
ing: little marshy ground to traverse
should they attempt to make a cross
ing of the river here into Old Ru
mania, as the loy-lying ground vir
tually disappears for some distance
around Hirsova,
General von Falkenhayn continues
to make progress in the direction of
C'ampulung, south of Predeal. on the
Transylvania front, and Bucharest ad
mits a retirement of the Rumanian
forces in the Jiul valley, which is sit
uated in the Vulcan pass region. The
Russo-Rumanian forces, to the north,
have repulsed Austro-German attacks,
APPEAL FOR THE WIDOWS '
AND ORPHANS IN GERMANY
Made by American Relief Committee
With Approval of Gerard.
Vaw Vrtrlr fj 97 4 T"-l
appeal for funds to relieve suffering
Unions' thn U'irlAHa onH nmano in
Germany was issued here today by
me American reiier committee, backed
by the approval of James W. Gerard,
many, who expressed the belief that
u ijueiai tTjiitnuuLion wouia ao much
to make for a more friendly feeling
netweon uermany and the United
States.
"The money will be sent to me
through the United States state de
partment," Mr. Gerard eaid, . "and I
will distribute It in Germany through
the United States consuls - there
wherever the need is greatest. I think
all persons who are interested not only
In helping the real necessities of wid
ows and orphans in Germany, but also
in promoting more friendly feelings
throughout the world, ought to help
In this work.
"There is real need in Germany for
thla work and in distributing the
money I shall be careful to let the
German public know from whom it
comes. Americans have sent much
more money to other nations than to
Germany, but I hope the Germans will
come to realize that the people of
America sympathize with the suffer
ings and needs of the widows and or
phans everywhere and are willing to
ameliorate such conditions wherever
found.
"If I am enabled to go back to Ger
many bringing a substantial sum of
money raised by this committee I do
not know of anything better to aid
relations between this country and
Germany, and when the Germans see
that the fund has been raised by a
committee so distinctly American as
this one it cannot but make a most
excellent impression upon the people
there."
HUGHES AND WILSON
WOMEN ARE FRIENDLY
Both Factions Prominent in a Street
Parade at Topeka, Kat.
Topeka, Kas., Oct. 27. Topeka's re
ception to the women of the Hughes
campaign special today developed into
a friendly rivalry between local mem
bers of the Hughes Alliance and the
Women's Wilson League. In a street
parade which followed the arrival of
the train, both factions were promin
ent. "We come here from the east today
lo ask you to pay a debt you owe us,"
aid Mrs. Maud Howe Elliott, of New
port, R. I., speaking at a mass meet
ing. "My father helped free bleeding
Kansas. Out here where you have no
Industrial problems, no accumulation
ot wealth and bitterness as we have
In the east, you cannot realize condi
tions. But we do back east and now
Is the time we want you to pay the
flebt of gratitude you owe us for the
blood we shed for you."
SERGEANT AUGUST KASTNER
WAS NOT KILLED IN FIGHT
He Committed Suicide By Shooting at
Port au Prince, Haiti.
Sheboygan, Wis., Oct.' i7. Sergeant
August Kastner, of the United States
marine corps, was not killed In a re
cent fight In Santo Domingo, as was
reported in a message received last
Wednesday by hia relatives here, but
committed 'Suicide, according to a
telegram received from the war de
partment today. The telegrame says:
"Sergeant August Kaster commit
ted suicide by shooting on September
tZ at Port au Prince. Haiti, no furth
er particulars received.'
" (Signed.)
"GEORGEJ BARNETT,
"Commandant (Marine CorpsV
while in the Uzul valley the Ruman
ians continue to advance and in the
region of Okna have occupied a height
and a village.
Inclement weather is hampering the
operations on the Somme and Mace
donian fronts and only bombardments
have taken iplace in these regions. An
other attempt by the Germans at an
attack west of the Village of Douau
mont in the Verdun region was check
ed by the French curtain of fire. The
Germans are stlil heavily bombarding
all the newly won positions of the
French in this region.
On the eastern front in Russia' there
has been little fighting except in the
region of the Shara river, northwest
of Pinsk. Near Goldovitchi a Ger
man attack forced the Russians to
retire to the eastern 'bank of the
Shara.
In an engagement in the English
channel between British and German
torpedo boat destroyers two German
destroyers were sunk, according to
London, while the British lost an
empty transport. In addition a Brit
ish torpedo boat destroyer is missing
and another was run aground after
it had been disabled by a torpedo.
REICHSTAG CONSIDERING - -
A NEW WAR CREDIT
Bill for 12,000,000,000 Marks Submit
ted by Count Von Roedern.
J Berlin. Oct. 27. (By wireless to Say.
vuie. a new war credit bill for 12,
000,000,000 marks was submitted to
the reichstag today by Count von
Roedern, secretary of the imperial
treasury, who also reviewed the suc
cesses of the German war finances and
compared them with the practices fol
lowed by the countries oboosed to Ger
many. Count von Roedern stated that
the total German war credits up to
now amounted to 52,000,000,000 marks.
Explaining the practice of the German
treasury, thf imperial treasurer saidU.
Kjn tne asis or tne war credit
granted bj parliament in all cases
short term treasury bonds, which were
regularly consolidated with long term
loans in the months -of March and
September, were issued. The amount
of more than 47,000,000,000 marks
subscribed to these loans, of which
45,000,000,000 marks already has been
paid in, proves the success of this
financing policy. The German, nation
in 1914 produced from its own re
sources 4,500,000,000 marks in such
loans; in 19)5 more than 21,000,000,
000 marks and in 1916, 21,000,000,000
marks also.
"You will remember that the first
four loans were essentially of the
same type, carrying 5 per cent, inter
est and having approximately the
same price of issue. There having been
raised in this fashion 36,00,000,000
marks in round figures, the question
seemed justified as to whether the
fifth loan could also be placed under
the same conditions."
Count von Roedern said these ex
pectations had proved correct as the
subscriptions to the fifth loan had
amounted to 10,652,000,000 marks. He
said that the number of subscribers
was about 4,000,000 and therefore the
fifth war loan must be called a "peo
ple's loan."
AMERICAN IMMIGRATION
IN WESTERN CANADA
Has Steadily Increased Since the Out
break of the European War.
Montreal," Que Oct. 27. American
immigration in western Canada has
steadily increased since the outbreak
of the European war, according to J.
S. Dennis, chief of the department of
natural resources of the Canadian Pa
cific railroad, who testified before the
Dominions Royal Trades Commission
here today. The commission Is inquir
ing into the trade conditions of the
empire with a view to Improving
Great Britain's world commerce at the
end of the war.
A large number of American settlers
became naturalized Canadians, Mr.
Dennis said, and take a prominent part
in municipal and provincial affairs,
but, as a whole, they are not as deep
ly concerned as other Canadians In
the world war.
MRS.
BEUTINGER'8 FATE .
IS IN JURY'S WANDS
Charged With Murder of Her Hus
band at Caldwell. N. J.
Newark, N. J., Oct. 27.--'Mrs. Mar
garet C. Beutinger, the young woman
charged with the murder of her hus
band, a prosperous New York coal
merchant, at their home at Caldwell,
N. J., on July 11. last, Is waiting for
the verdict of the jurors in . whose
hands her fate rests.
The Jurors retired at S o'clock and
at midnight, when no verdict had been
reached, Judgre Martin ordered the
Jurymen locked up for the night. Court
was adjourned until 10 o'clock tomor
row morning.
The defendant was returned to the
cell which she has occupied since her
arrest and her children left the court
house in the care of relatives.'
Cabled Paragraphs
Dr. Juan Jose Amezaga Resigns.
. Montevideo,- Uruaguay, Oct. 27. Dr.
Juan Jose Amezaga. minister of com
merce and industry, has resigned.
French Arrest Greek Royalist.
Athens, Oct. 2(1, 1.15 a. m.. via Lon
don, Oct. 27. 8.8 p. m. The French
authorities here have arrested M.
Chrlstocos, who is the head of over
,70,000 reservists and royalists through
out Greece.
Military Status of Turkey High.
Vienna. Wednesday, Oct. 26. (Via
Berlin to London, Oct. 27, 6 p. m.)
The economic, financial and military
status of Turkey Is highly satisfactory
and her relations with the central
powers are of the greatest friendship,
said-Halil Bey, Turkish minister of
foreign affairs, in an interview with
The Associated Press representative
here today.
MEXICAN "JUNTA" IN
EXISTENCE AT EL PASO
Composed of Former Revolutionists
Who Were Close to Villa in the Past.
El Paso, Texas, Oct. 27. Before
leaving for New Tork today on a con
fidential mission for bis government,
Andres Garcia, inspector-general of
Carranza consulates in the United
States, announced that he has inform
ation that "junta" is in existence in
El Paso which has for its purpose
the directing of Villa's movements in
the field. He said this organization
is composed of former revolutionists
who have been close to Villa in the
past. He added that he has received
an unconfirmed report that there are
a few Americans implicated in the
organization.
While he admitted having no definite
information as to the possibility of
a raid on the border by Villa or men
in his command, he said he had been
informed that such a raid might be
made on the border at some isolated
point between El Paso and San Anto
nio. -
' He said he had information that
Mexican silver pesos were being pur
chased here and at other points along
the border and expressed the opinion
that these coins were being smuggled
across the border for Villa to pay his
men.
Mr. Garcia's departure for New
Tork at thi stfme is believed here,
to have a direct bearing on the pres
ent situation on the border. He de
clined to make known the purpose of
his mission. i
PRESIDENT WILSON RETURNS
HOME FROM CINCINNATI
Shook Hands With Crowds in West
Virginia. Maryland and Pennsyl
vania. Long Branch, Nl J., Oct. 27. Presi
dent Wilson returned - here - tonight
from his trip to Cincinnati which
marked his last appearance in the
middle west before the election. He
arrived here at 9.45 o'clock and mo
tored directly to Shadow-Lawn.--At 4
froquent intervals durinJ.h djijejl
snook hands with crowds as he pass-TI
ea through West Virginia, Maryland
and Pennsylvania.
"If you. make one speech here you
will carry Pennsylvania," said a man
in the crowd at Philadelphia.
"Maybe I'll carry it anyway," re
sponded the president.
The. president's speeches here between-
now and the election will be
devoted chiefly to efforts to carry New
York, and his home state of New Jer
sey. Tomorrow afternoon he will
speak at Shadow Lawn to an audi
ence made up mostly of New Yorkers
and. next Wednesday and Thursday he
will deliver addresses in Buffalo and
New, York. He will make his last
speech of the campaign, November 4,
at a New Jersey celebration at Shad
ow Lawn.
The democratic national committee
ha3 . made arrangements for the ob
servance of "Woodrow Wilson day"
tomorrow in cities, towns and rural
communities. For the first time since
the campaign opened the president has
prepared his speech in advance and
It is planned to have .it read at the
various meetings.
Democratic leaders said tonight the
meeting at Shadow Lawn will be the
most largely attended of the campaign.
Delegations of women and of work
ing children are to be in the audience.
CARRANZA ANNOUNCES HIS
CANDIDACY FOR PRESIDENCY
In Response to Manifesto of New Constitutionalist-Liberal
Party.
Mexico City, Oct. ?i. General Ven
ustiano Carranza formally announced
Ms candidacy for the presidency at one
o'clock today in response to a manifes
to of the new constisutionalist-liberal
party, which urged him to run for the
office and offered him its layalty and
support.
i In his acceptance General Carranza
said that if by the vote of the people
they make him president he would
obey and cause to be obeyed the laws
under the constitution.
" Generals Gonzales and Obregon took
tne oain or loyaity.to General Carran
za. General Gonzales said the acceptance
of General Carranza marked the nec
essary return to constitutional' order
which was the national aspiration.
General Obregon assured General Car
ranza hat he and all the men who had
accompanied him through the revolu
tion would serve loyally after the elec
tion. . General Eduardo Hay, president of
the constitutionalist party, made a
formal speech in which he offered the
party's support to General Carranza
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE
DEM. -CAMPAIGN FUND
Amount iReceived Up to October 24 is
$1,006,283.
New Tork, Oct. 27. Cleveland H.
Dodge, who was graduated from
Princeton with President Wilson in '79,
heads the list of contributors to the
democratio campaign fund, according
to a preliminary report which will be
filed with the clerk of the house of
representatives tomorrow by Wilbur
W. Marsh, treasurer of the democratio
national committee. The report, which
was made public tonight, accounts for
contributions of $1,006,283, the amount
received up to and including October
24. Of this sum Mr. Dorge gave $50,
000. Since then he has contributed an
additional $29,000, making the total
$79,000.
The number of contributors was giv
en as 41,882. The amount received in
contributions of less than $100 was
$261,846. The contributions from those
giving more than $100 was $744,436.
One of the entries on the list reads:
"Woodrow Wilson. Washington. ' D. C
a-SOO." ,
Border Patrol is
Extra Vigilant
EVERY FORD, BRIDGE AND TRAIL
BEING GUARDED.
CAUSED BY WARNING
Statement is Made That the Border is
Safer from Bandit Attacks Than at
Any Time Since Villa Made His Raid
i
El Paap, Texas, Oct. 27. Every ford,
bridge and trail along the interna
tional border in this patrol district is
being guarded by additional United
States troops in compliance with Sec
retary of War Baker's warning to
border commanders to be prepared for
Opportunities Which Are Otherwise Unknown
Declaring that advertising is carried on along careful and proper
lines is the main factor in the growth of retail business. Advertising
Manager Allen of the Christian Science Monitor holds that advertising
is the one recourse of the retailer to raise himself above the mass and
cause the reverse of economic trading conditions, and he proceeded
to demonstrate to an interested audience by statistics based on ob
servations of a number of stores how advertising influences sales. In
his opinion the advertiser should attempt to promote the spirit of good
will to his store through his advertisements. Retail advertising, he
contends, is an important influence upon foreign-rDorn citizens who
gain ideas of American ways of living through it.
Advertising of course means the education of the people to the op
portunities which are before them, many of which they would other
wise know nothing- about. The paper1 which goes amongst the largest
number is therefore the best and cheapest medium. Such service is
rendered by The Bulletin throughout Eastern Connecticut.
, In the past week the following matter has appeared in its col
umns: '
Bulletin Telegraph Local General Total
.Saturday, Oct. 21 . . 84 162 1056 1302
Monday, Oct. 23.. 127 148 227 502
Tuesdav, Oct. 24.. Ill 139 166 4i6
Wednesday, Oct. 25.. 91 129 176 396
Thursday, Oct. 26.. 86 115 215. 416
Friday, . . . Oct. 27. . 98 120 156 374
-S&4ss. .'.4r97-,--, 813 1996 - 3406
another Mexican bandit raid on the
border.
It was announced here today that
these precautionary measures were be
ing taken in compliance with the sec
cretary's orders, although the border
is safer from bandit attacks at this
time than at any time since Villa
started his banditry, it was said.
CASE AGAINST HAVERHILL
OFFICIALS GOES TO JURY.
Instructions Left for a Sealed Verdict
This Morning.
Lawrence, Mass., Oct. 27 The case
of Mayor Albert L. Bartlett and four
other members of the Haverhill city
government who were charged with
failure to suppress rioting that occur
recTin connection with an anti-Catholic
lecture1! in that city April 3 was
given to tht! jury la.te today. At a late
hour the jury was still considering the
evidence, and instructions were left
for it to report a sealed verdict tomor
row morning.
W. U. TELEGRAPH CO. TO
ENTER SOUTH AMERICA
Engineering Expedition is to Be Sent
Out Next Month.
New York, Oct. 27. The Western
Union Telegraph eompany announced
tonight that it is planning to enter
South America on a big scale and that
an engineering expedition will be sent
out next month to make explorations.
The company expects to work in co
operation with the department of state
and with the American International
corporation. . provided the reported
submitted by the expedition to the
boards of directors of the two com
panies meets with approval. '
Continuation of the Havana cable
direct to Buenos Aires is one of the
plans being considered.
TO PROTEST MINING OF
SWEDISH TERRITORIAL WATERS
Swedish Government Has Instructed
Its Minister at Petrograd.
Berlin, Oct. 27. "The Swedish gov
ernment has instructed its minister at
Petrograd to protest immediately
against the Russian intention to place
mines in Swedish territorial waters,"
says the Overseas News Agency. "The
minister also was instructed to an
nounce that the Swedish government
in due time -will bring forward all
claims for damages caused by such
mines.
"This step resuted from the order
recently issued by the Russian gov
ernment ror tne placing of mines in
particular sections of the Gulf of
Bothnia."
PERUVIANS REVIVE MEMORY
OF GUILLERMO BILLINGHURST
Former President Who Died While in
Exile in Chile.
Lima, Peru, Oct. 27. The body of
Guillermo Billinghurst, the former
president of Peru, was deposited in a
mausoleum in a cemetery here today.
The funeral parade resulted in im
posing manifestations iy all classes
of Peruvians. President Pardo, min
isters, senators, deputies and other
officials assisted in the funeral cere
monies at the cathedral.
Former President Billinghurst died
at Iquique. Chile, in June, 1915, after
having been exiled from Peru.
Deutschland in
Chesapeake Bay?
RUMOR SAYS SHE PASSED IN THE
x CAPE J LAST NIGHT.
BALTIMORE BOUND
it is Declared She Sailed from Bremen
Two Weeks Ago and Successfully
Eluded All British Patrol Boats.
Norfolk. Va. Oct. 28. The German
under-sea merchantman, according to
reports in circulation in Norfolk and
Baltimore today and tonight, is due
at the Virginia Capes in the next few
hours, en route to Baltimore. It is
declared she sailed from Bremen two
weeks ago and successfully eluded alJ
British patrol boats safely.
It was reported tonight that the
Deutschland passed in the capes short
ly after nightfall and proceeded up the
bay, but this could not be confirmed.
WINTER. QUARTERS FOR
TPOOPS ON BORDER
Million Pollars Made Available By
War Department.
San Antonio. Texas, Oct. 27. More
than a million dollars has been made
available by the war department for
providing winter quarters for troops
on the border. Southern department
headquarters was advised to this ef
fect today and ordered to proceed with
vork at once.
Cantonments are to be erected for
troops of the regural army engaged in
border dutp and provision has been
made for framing and flooring the
tents of the national guard trooDS.
In authorizing the expenditure the
war department acted on recommenda
tions submitted by General Funston
Cantonments will be built at border
points where regular troops are now
on duty.
The expenditures provided for by the
appropriation aggregate $1,140,000.
OFFICERS CONECTICUT
PRISON ASSOCIATION
Alfred Coit of New London One of the
Vice Presidents
Hartford, Conn., Oct. 27. Professor
William B. Bailey of Yale University
was elected president of the Connec
ticut Prison Association at its annual
meeting here today. The following
vice president were chosen: George
B. Chandler, Rocky Hill; Albert McC.
Matthewson, New Haven; John H.
Light, South Norwalk; Alfred Coit,
New London; Elisha J. Steele, Tor
rington; Stetson K. Ryan, Middletown;
Edgar M. Warner, Putnam; Freeman
F. Patten, Stafford Srings.
W. E. Stanton of this city was elect
ed treasurer and C. M. Thompson of
Hartford secretary.
SEVEN MEN INJURED
BY A POWDER "FLARE-UP"
Three
Probably ' Fatally and
Others Less Seriously.
Four
Haskell, N. J.. Oct. 28. Three men
were probably fatally burned and four
others less seriously injured by a pow
der "flare-up" at the Haskell plant of
the E. I. Dupont De Nemours Powder
company here late today. The "flare"
was caused by the ignition of a bag
of powder which fell under the wheels
of a tram car and set Are to the load
on the car. A screening caught Are
and wes destroyed, but the property
los3 was small.
Reichstag Votes Budget Committee
With' Power.
London, Oct. 27, 10.59 p. m. The
German reichstag by a vote of 302 to
31 authorized the budget committee to
meet during the adjournment of the
reichstag for a discussion of Ger
many's foreign policy and the war, says
Reuters Amsterdam correspondent.
Big Day at Shadow Lawn.
New York, Oct. 27. Nine special
trains will be provided to carry sup
porters of the present administration
from this city to Long Branch, N. J.,
tomorrow for the celebration of "New
York day" at Shadow Lawn. . Presi
dent Wilson will address the visitors
at his summer home.
Condensed Telegrams
Leading brands of flour advanced
30c to $10.20 a barrel at Chicago.
Melbou rne H. Hardwick, a landscape
printer of international reputation, is
dead.
The Schenectady Illuminating Co.
has increased its capital from $3,000,
000 to $5,000,000. -
Battery B, First Field Artillery. N.
N. G,,. arrived at New York from
the Mexican border.
The Dominion government will per
mit building of merchant ships in
Canada for Norway.
Lee S. Burridge, inventor and avia
tor, who died on May 4, 1915, left an
estate valued at $93,929.
Fort Sam Houston is to have a gar
age large enough to house more than
800 large motor trucks.
Cottonseed was quoted at $60 a ton
on the Memphis Cotton Exchange, the
highest price ever known.
The sub-treasury received $2,500,000
in gold coin from Canada for the ac
count of J. P. Morgan & Co.
The Commercial Cable Co. an
nounced that cable communication
with Manaos has been restored.
In the three months ended Sept. 30,
the revenue receipts of the state of
New York amounted to $10,503,429.
The annual convention of the Na
tional (Foreign Trades Council will be
held in Pittsburgh, Jan. 25-27. 1917.
' America's 1916 Christmas ship, for
tha relief of Syrian and Armenian war
victims will leave New York. Dec. 1.
Seven hundred men employed in the
shops of the New York, Ontario ft,
Western Railroad, threaten to strike.
Detectives at St. Louis recovered
$13,000 of the $32,009 stolen from a
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., pay
master in Detroit, Aug. 4.
The cornerstone of Princeton's new
half-million dollar dining hall was laid.
It is the gift of Mrs. Russel Sage and
other friends of the university.
The weekly statement of the Bank
of France shows an increase of 3,619,
000 francs in gold holdings and a de
crease of 513,000 francs in silver.
The German steel syndicate reports
that the output of steel in Germany
last month was 1,493,000 tons, compar
ed with 1,414,000 tons in August.
The annual call of the Interstate
Commerce Commission for railroad' re
ports by January 15, of new automatic
block signal equipment has been is
sued. Dr. Irigoyen, new radical president
of Argentina, Is arranging to shelter
the destitute of Buenos Aires in pub
lic; buildiftxs. He - will pay-r-f or their
food himself.
John Sundquist, who killed Daniel
Shannon of New Jersey, pleaded guilty
to second degree murder and was sen
tenced to from twenty to thirty years
in state prison.
The entire hamlet of Georgia, eight
nines west or uioversville, N. 1., was
threatened by a fire which wined out
the hotel, grist mill and eight of the
tirteen dwellings.
Foux men were iniured when an au
tomobile in which they were riding
skidded at Nelson and Peterson av
enues, Jersey City, and dropped down a
a o -ioot emDanicment.
Pope Benedict has sent to Cardinal
Gibbons a contribution of 10,000 francs
to head a list of contributions in the
United States for assistance of the
children of Belgium.
Dr. C. Lincoln Forbush, a prominent
Philadelphia physician was appointed
special assistant to the American em
bassy at Berlin, as medical inspector
or prison camps m uermany.
Sir Ernest Shackleton, Antartic ex
plorer, arrived at Panama on his wav
to New Zealand to head another relief
expedition to save his men who are
marooned on the shores of Ross Sea.
Two hundred barbers from all sec
tions of Staten Island served a strike
ultimatum to their employers. If their
demtnd for an increase in wages is
not met this morning, they will go on
a strike.
William C. Ashbridge, . who with
Walter C. Thompson, an alleger forger,
escaped from the Camden, N. J., coun
ty jail after killing one guard and
wounding another, was convicted of
the murder of Mrs. Elizabeth Dunbar,
an actress. .
The Public Employment Bureau of
New York city reported that 2,163 ap
plications for work wehe made during
the month of September. Positions
Were found for !! 0S3 im' tho ntiemnlinr.
ed, two-thirds of which will be per-
Michigan railrpad firemen and en
gineers have voted to ring their en
gine bells on entering every station
until their train pulls out as a demon
stration for President Wilson. They
will explain they are "rinking the bell
for Wilson."
$7,500,000 BRAZILIAN TRACTION .
LIGHT AND POWER BONDS
Purchased By William A. Read & Co.
of New York.
New York, Oct. 27, William A. Read
and company announces today the
purchase of $7,500,000 three year six
perecent. gold notes of .the Brazilian
Traction, Light and Power company,
which operates public utilities in the
cities of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo,
Brazil. This is the first financing of
this character undertaken bp American
bankers, London having been the cen
ter, prior to the war, for the float
ing of such enterprises.
BERLIN CLAIMS VICTORY
IN ENGLISH CHANNEL
14 Ships Either Sunk or Damaged by
German Torpedo Boat Squadron.
Berlin, Oct. 27, via London, Oct. 28,
12.54 a. m. At least eleven outpost
steamers and two or three torpedo
boat destropers or topredo boats were
sunk or damaged by a German tor
pedo sauadron Thursday night in the
English channel between Folkestone
and Boulogne, according to an official
communication issued here. The
German torpedo flotilla returned safely
to its base witnout any loss.
HUGHES RENDS WILSON'S CLAIMS
Concerning Preparations to Meet Commercial Com
petition After the War
SAYS U. S. LACKS INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
In an Address at Rochester, N. Y., the Republican Presidential
Nominee Cited Statistics to Disprove President Wilson's
Claim That Everything Exported From the United States
to Supply Armies Does Not Total One Per Cent, of the
Total American Commerce Administration Revenue
Bill Would Provide No Protection to American Work
Rochester, N. Y., Oct. 27. Charles
B. Hughes tonight replied to state
ments in President Wilson's Cincin
nati speech concerning preparations to
meet commercial competition after the
war.
Mr. Hughes told an audience here
that the administration's views re
minded him of its views on prepared
ness in December, 1914, which were
afterwards changed; that he consid
ered the anti-dumping provision of
the revenue bill, intended to meet the
situation, as "farcical" and "worse
than useless" to protect American
workmen, and that even if the per
centage of exports of commodities to
6upply armies was small, it required
but very little "to contract or destroy
the prosperity of the county."
Hughes Cheered. Repeatedly.
The nominee addressed an audience
that cheered him repeatedly. He told
them that as he had been while gov
ernor of New York he was now, and
should 'be in the future; that he- was
willing to stand or fall by what he
believed to be right.
"It was said in December, 1914,"
Mr. Hughes asserted, "that America
was ready; that any suggestion to the
contrary was thoughtless. But, in
truth, America was far from ready. It
is now said, with reference to the
commercial rivalry, that America is
ready. I think, in truth, that Amer
ica is far from ready, and that we
shall not be ready until we have a
clearer notion of what we may ex
pect." Statistics of Exports.
Mr. Hughes cited statistics of im
ports in answer "to the president's
declaration that everything exported
from the ,JJnit;J States tosupply ar
mies does not' total 1 per cent, of the
total of American acemmerce. After
stating the increases in chemicals,
brass, breadstuff's, iron and steel, cot
ton and other commodities, Mr
Hughes declared that exports of ex
plosives. Including cartridges, had in
creased from $5,000,000 to $467,000,000
in one year, with an increase in total
exports i of $2,000,000. The nominee
WATCHING MOVEMENT OF
NEGROES TO NORTHERN CITIES
Legal Officers Hope to Check Possible
Election Frauds.
Washington, Oct. 27. Both the de
partment of justice and tho depart
ment of la'bor are watching closely
the migration of southern negroes to
northern industrial centers. The le
gal officers hope to check .possible
election frauds, while the labor au
thorities are interested primarily in
preventing their federal employment
service from being used to further mi
gration schemes.
Attorney General Gregory, in addi
tion to general instructions recently
given to federal district attorneys , in
advance of the elections, has ordered
a special inquiry into complaints that
negroes are being sent in considerable
numbers to doubtful states -under
promises of work at high wages. Dis
trict Attorney Miller at Louisville has
been ordered to report the names,
towns and destinations of all negroes
or any other possible voters going
from Kentucky, Alabyna or any other
part of the south, passing through
Louisville in suspicious numbers.
Other district attorneys in the south
and in middle west states are under
stood to be under similar instructions.
SCHOONER CATAWAMTEAK
BEARS A CHARMED LIFE
Old Coaster Has Been Apparently
Wrecked Many Times.
Chatham, Mass., Oct. 27. For more
than sixty years the schooner Cata
wamteak has been known to New
England mariners as the ''cat of the
coastwise fleet" because of the many
times she has been apparently wreck
ed only to gain a new lease of life.
Today the old coaster stranded on
Shovelful Shoals, on the brink of the
grave of many good ships and, once
again, cheated the keepers of Davy
Jones' locker.
"She's a charmed boat," her skipper
said to Captain Ellis of the Monomoy
Point coast guards when the latter
helped the Catawamteak off the shoals
with a ked-ge anchor. The schooner
continued her voyage with stone from
Stonineton. Maine, to New York with
no damage to show for her latest ex
perience. ' '
MEXICO HAS PLACED U. S.
IN CLASS WITH CHINESE
Roosevelt Blames the Wilson Adminis
tration Therefor.
Toledo. Ohio. Oct. 27. "The presi
dent the United States must not
wear a moral pigtail, said colonel
Roosevelt in a rear-platform speech
this afternoon. "Mexico," he said,
"has placed Americans in the same
class with the Chinese. Mexico: has
killed one German, one Englishman, no
Frenchmen, no Japanese, five hun
dred Americans and three hundred
Chinese. The attitude of the national
administration is more apt to produce
war with Mexico than to keep us out
of war."
Movements of Steamships.
Christiansand. Oct. 27. 'Arrived:
steamer Helig Olav, New York.
Genoa, Oct. 15. Arrived: steamer
Duca Degli Abruzzi, New York.
Gothemburg, Oct. 27. Arrived:
steamerStockholm, New York.
said he was "amazed a( the sugges
tion" that it was such a small per
centage .that "it could hardly affect the
great remaining percentage."
"Why, if you had the greatest dis
tress in this country," 'Mr. Hughes said,
"you would still have a tremendous
volume of commerce and trade. It does
not take much to contract the pros
perity of this country, to destroy the
prosperity of this country. The great
percentage of our exchanges and of
our commerce would continue even if
we were in very serious straits
"When you infuse this abnormal de
mand to which I have referred you '
have given a stimulus which undoubt.
edly is felt throughout the country:
and when you have a policy carried
into effect, such as was involved in
the Underwood bill, the contraction re
sulting from that policy, although per
haps a small percentage, was enough
to send hundreds and thousands of
workingmen into the streets. : ; "
Protection ofe Industries.
"Let us not deceive ourselves. Let
us take account of what is necessary
for the protection of our industry, and
let us have it understood that we are
doing it, not to give benefits to a few,
but to provide a basis for prosperity
for the many.
"It is said, after scoffing at the sug
gestion that is made with respect to
competition with ap energized Europe
after suggesting that America is
able to take care of itself, implying,
of course, with the . present govern
mental policies after saying there is
no such thing, then it is said, well, we
have made provision with respect to it
in our anti-dumping clause In our
revenue bill. And anybody that is go
ing to threaten American industry and
anybody who will in any way inter
fere . with our - conditions .'here may
"have to pay a few thousand dollars'
fine or go to jail." ......
That, Mr. Hughes said, reminded him
of the story of the man charged with
the theft of a. copper kettle who was
ready with two defenses first, that he
never saw the kettle and never stole
it, and, second, that the kettle had a
hole in it, anyway.
BAKER SILENT ABOUT PROPOSED
ATTACK ON AMERICAN TROOPS
But Admits That No Americans Were
Involved irj the Plot.
Washington, Oct. 27.--Secretary
Baker left for Wilmington, O., tonight
to continue his campaign speaking
without revealing either the sources
or the exact nature of the information
which impelled the war department
yesterday to issue a statement say
ing it had knowledge that an attack
on the border or on American troops
in Mexico is being planned by ene
mies of the administration's policy
toward Mexico.
It was learned, however, that the
suspicion was aroijsed here some days
ago and that reports of an alleged
conspiracy appearing in certain Amer
ican newspapers were transmitted to
the border for investigation. Agents
of the department of justice and of
the treasury department are supposed
to have made the inquiry, although
there are intimations that General
Funston also was. advised as a matter
of information. Reports reaching
Washington yesterday 'less than an
hour before Mr. Baker left for West
Virginia to deliver a campaign address,
led the war secretary to confer with
Secretary Lansing at the sTate depart
ment and issue the statement.
Suggestions that the statement was
so worded as virtually to charge
American political opponents of the
administration with "conspiring with
the bandits led both Secretary Baker
and Secretary Lansing today to re
iterate the latter's statement of last
night that there was no intention to
do such a thing. Boh said it was im
possible to conceive that any Amer
ican could be involved in such an en
terprise and that Mexicans now in the
United States were responsible for the
plot, wishing to ebzroil the United
States and Mexico to the end that the
de facto government might be over
thrown. 128 FRENCH AEROPLANES
HAVE ARRIVED IN RUMANIA
For Reconnaissance Work on tha
'Transylvanfa and Dobrudja Fronts.
London, Oct. 27, 6.25 p. m. "One
hundred and twenty-eight French
aeroplanes have arrived in Rumania
for reconnaissance work . on the
Transylvania and Dobrudja fronts,"
says a despatch to the wireless press.
Four English - aeroplanes arrived . at
the Rumanian capital yesterday from
Imbros, an island of the Grecian archr
ipelago.
Flying from the island of Imbros
across central Bulgaria to Bucharest,
in a straight line, fhe English ma
chines traveled 300 miles.
OBITUARY.
William C, Myers. '
PhtUadelphia, Oct. 27. William C.
Myers, lieutenant of engineers -in the
United States coast guard service,
who was awarded a medal of honor by
congress for service in the Philippines
under Admiral Dewey, died at his
home here today from heart disease.
He was 67 years of age and . was a
member of the crew of the cutter Mc-
Cullough- which went ahead of Admiral
Dewey's fleet and located the position
of the mines in Manila harbor, .
J
1
I
