v -id.
The Muskogee Cimeter.
,
Vol. 18 NO. 22
MUSKOGEE, OKLAHOMA. SATURDAY OCT. 28, 1916.
1MUCI3 51.(0 A YEAR
Reasons Why Hughes Should Be Elected
HECAUSE he stands for Protection, Prosperity, Preparedness and Patri
otism. BECAUSE he will not permit partisanship to triumph over Patriotism.
BECAUSE his speech of acceptance expresses his desire to co-operate with
lahor for its advantage, not to exploit it for his own.
BECAUSE he will command the respect of Europe and Asia and win
the friendship of Latin-America.
BECAUSE he will never by proclamation deny the right of Americans
to pursue their business in other lands under the protection o' the
American flag.
BECAUSE he will not repudiate the American flag in any land.
BECAUSE he will not put action into words, but words into action.
BECAUSE, as Theodore Koosovolt well Fays, he has high sentiments
of justice and dignity, is upright and straightforward, is an incon
testable master of judicial mutters, and always translates his words
into deeds.
BECAUSE he is a strong, sure, courageous man, with a clear-cut program
before him and with the courage, intelligence and determination to
carry it out and bring to our country self-respecting peace and
world-wide respect.
BECAUSE as Governor of New York he has already proved that he
dared to do the right thing, and is prepared to further do and dare I
when called into a wider field.
BECAUSE he is not a dreamer and not a quitter. '
BECAUSE he is a firm friend of preparedness for the United States .
and not for preparedness through political expediency.
BECAUSE he will not burden us with war taxes in time of peace.
"RF.PAITXH .vn iwp;1 n tnnir lint fonmlnd imnn frnn Irnilo. nnr fnr "rcvo-
nue only," but to protect American labor and American industry
from the deadly competition of the foreigner.
BECAUSE he is n red-blooded American. 11 is policy will be "America'
first, America eilic'cnt."
BECAUSE ho can be depended upon to keep platform pledges. I
BECAUSE he will prolcil this country against being flooded with the J
cheap manufactures of Europe after the war. , '.
BECAUSE he is the chosen head of a party which has long fathered
nil great constructive legislation which experience has proved to'
. be wise and which has invariably been opposed by the Democratic
party.
BECAUSE a business man is going to be especially needed in the next
few years. Fn consequence of the European war a tremendous read
justment of the world's business is ahead. The United States must
ibe' economically prepared. It must not, ns now, be left defense
less. It must not have a President with an untrained business
mind, ever changing. Mr. Hughes made a remarkable record as
j. a business Governor of New York. He has extraordinary ability
!to see all sides of a question. Not from him, as from Wilson, will
be heard any declaration that he will hang business men "high as
Haman" if they do not agree with him.
BECAUSE he is a man of forward vision, of practicability and firmness,
y not a mere rhetorician and theorist.
BECAUSE he Glands for the protection of American lives and property
abroad ns well as at home.
BECAUSE through him the whole nation will be in the Government.
Jt will not be ruled by one section, nor by one man.
BECAUSE ho is for an effective, ' not an unsound and sham system
I of rural credits to help the farmer and for a wise conservation of
I natural resources.
BECAUSE he is for a Federal workingmen's compensation law suitable
for the employes of the Government, and those employes engaged
in interstate commerce and subject to the hazard of injury.
BECAUSE he favors investigating before legislating.
I
deasonsWhy Wilson Should Be Defeated
BECAUSE during the first ten months of the Wilson-Underwood law
there were more unemployed being fed by charity than during
any ten months in our history, excepting under the Wilson
Gorman act.
BECAUSE of his inconsistency on the immigration bill. In his "His
tory of the American People," vol. 5, p. 213, he wrote: "The Chi
nese were mofo to be desired ns workmen, if not as citizens, than
most of the coarse crew that came crowding in every year at the
Eastern ports."
BECAUSE he has not reduced, as he promised, the high cost of living,
but has actually made it higher.
BECAUSE he was pledged to a single term by the Haltimorc conven
tion, but before the typo ws cold he was building up his fences
for another.
BECAUSE, although posing ns an advocate of civil service, every act of
his ns President in connection with civil service has been adverse to
its principles, obstructive and destructive of its bonailde practice.
WHO IS THE REAL
FRIEND OF LABOR?
Negroes will go in the
Federal Courts
No Begging for assistance
of any political party
in this fight
What Wilton Said About Unions and
Workmen When He Did not
Want Their Vote.
lam d tierce partisan of the open
shop and of everything that tnakea
for Individual liberty. Speech at opeu
ihop banquet, Jan. 12, 3901).
The labor unions reward the shy
sters and Incompetent at the expense
of the nblo and Industrious. Speech
People's Forum, New Hochelle, Feb.
25, 1005.
We speak too exclusively of the cap
italistic class. There Is another as
formidable tin enemy to equality and
freedom of opportunity aa It Is and
that Is the class formed by the labor
organizations and tcuders of this coun
try. Speech. Waldorf Hotel, New
York, Mutch 10, 1007.
You know what the usual standard
of the employe Is In our day. It Is
to kIvc as little as he may for bla
wages. Lubor Is standardized by the
trade unions, and thU Is the standard
to which It Is made to conform. No
itne Is suffered to do more thun the
iveriige workman can do. Address to
nuluntlng class, rrlucctou University,
June H, lbOO.
IECAUSE, to cite Representative Fitzgerald, Democratic Cbainnitn of
itbo Appropriations Committee of the House, during bin administra
tion the Democratic Congress has been the most extravagant that
has ever met in the capital.
IECAUSK he insists on his dripping bill an indefensible piece of foHy
TJ which would destroy such merchant marine as we now have.
IECAUSK, although lie says "lie kept 113 out of war," the 6tory of
Mexico, San Domingo and llayli refutes him.
iECAlJSti he runs anti-climaxes. He marches in only to march out
again.
ECAUSE he signed the seamen's bill, which practically has wiped out
J shipping on the Pacific Coast.
ECAUSJ3 he attempted to scuttle from the Philippines and wa3 defeated
fonly by twenty patriotic Democrats who voted with the Republi
cans of the House.
ECAUSE ho appointed as Secretary of State William .7. Bryan after
"5 denouncing him as a pest who should bo "knockod into a cocked
hat."
CAUSE he mado possible Villa, murderer of men and despoiler
Ijf of women, and Carranza, the fatuous and futile "First Chief."
CcAUSE Wilson's text book statesmanship and grape-juice diplomacy
I have made the United States an international laughing 6tock.
ECAUSE he appointed "deserving Democrats" to the diplomatic corps,
7 displacing experienced men at a time when it was essential to the !
I foreign trade and honor of tlio united states to retain competent,
I experienced men.
CCAUSE ho is incompetent io lead, and veers like a weather vane
1 whenever a zephyr of public opinion seems to blow against him.
SCAUSE Iris "one-track mind" has too many turn-tables.
CCAUSE he lifted the embargo of nrms so that the Mexican despe-
Iradoes havo used American ammunition to murder American sol
diers and civilians.
nOAUSE the promised "pitiless publicity" has been replaced by private,
I special, secret negotiations by personal agents and representatives,
i appointed by President Wilson without "the advice and consent
of the Senate."
VIA ITCH l.n rnvnrcnc liimcnlf en rnniilltr lliaf Mio nniim vtuntw is
seasick from the motion.
FA USE lie is for free trade, direct taxes and an empty treasury
the fame old Democratic trinity.
JAUSE if the Payne-Aldrich law had been in operation in the
Mast trine mouths of 1915 we would have collected $91,656,161 more
than we did under the Underwood law. It would have met the
i treasury deficits and have avoided war taxes. The foreigner gelling
in euromarket got the entire benefit of the 991,656,161.
The objections 1 have to labor un
ions Ik that they drag the highest
iiuin to the level of the lowest. I
must demur with the Inbor unions
when they say "you must uward tho
dull the same as you uwurd thoso
nith special gifts." Speech In Peo
ple's Forum, New Uochelle, Feb. 2Z,
1005.
The Chinese were more to be de
Isred as workmen, If hot as citizens,
than the course crew that came crowd
ing In every year at Eastern ports.
History of American People.
National President Interested.
"Tho defendants further represent
ed to Mrs. Showers that tho national
president of the Anti-Saloon League
was Interested In the company and
that they, becauso of their official po
sition and connection with tho Antl
Saloon Lcaguo In Colorado, wore In a
very strong position to Intorost a good
many and rnlso sufficient funds
through tho Anti-Saloon Loaguo and
its officers nnd especially Baptist mln
istors of tho gospel who wero interest
ed in tho loaguo.
They also callod to the attention of
Mrs. ShowerB and her husband, the
complaint nttites, the various minsters
of tho gospel who wore interested in
their company and stated that Dr. H.
H. RuBsell, founder of tho Anti-Saloon
League, was made an officer of the
company.
Hughes says the country can't be
saved by letting It drift. That's where
he and W. Wilson differ.
Washington reports that a aew apol
ogy has been sent to First Chief Cr
runza. Looks like a habit
Sir. Rryan ts mistaken whea he eays
Hughes Is "vitriolic." The candidate
Is merely applying the acid test
A messenger of President Wilson
found out that Colorado women were
for the administration. No messenger,
of course, can be blamed tot aaaklaf
good.
Political opponents are begtmalBf te
find that why Mr. Hughe kept sllesjee
so long wasa't becaase fee tod lM
his tongue.
Another eaceoraglag feature atot
our new navy is that wue it ts
pleted, Mr. Dsalate will Mt to
tsry el It
Having discovered that the Desse
crats don't like what he Is saying, Mr,
Hughes doubtless la ceavlACt ttot
What Hughes Said Abort Unions And
Workmen
There are some who regard organ
ized labor ii 'i ii Mtiirce of strife and
menace of difficulty. I reguid It us
a tine opportunity for the tuiiellurntlon
of the condition of men working with
no other purpose than to make the
most of themselves and to aelitevo
something for their families. Speech
at dedlcutlon of Tuberculosis Pavilion,
Albany, New York, Aug. '20, 1003.
The mission of labor organizations
Is one of the finest that any associa
tion of men could guard. Today we
have realisation of what can be ac
complished. Speech at Dedication of
Tuberculosis Pavilion Aug. 29, 100S.
It ts a shocking thought that the
wage earners of the country, who by
their dally toll make possible tho in
dustrial prestige of which we boast,
should be subjected through Ignorance
or Indifference to unnecessary peril.
The Interests of labor are the Inter
ests of nil the people, nnd the protec
tion of the wage earner In the security
of his life and heulth by every pruc
tlcul means Is one of the most sacred
trusts of society. Speech, Exposition
of Safety Devices and Iudustriul Hy
giene, Jan. '28, 1007.
I believe In a six-day working week.
So do you. Hut do you know that
the men who arc making a six-day
week a possibility and an eventual
fixture, are these men (labor repre
sentatives) and their associates? I
long ago came to the conclusion thut
the lubor unions are going to solve
the Sunday labor question to the best
interest of tho country. Join hands
with them aud you will double your
results, while halving your lubor.
Address to preachers und lubor repre
sentatives In Executive Chamber,
Albany, 1908.
NEWSBOY ARRESTED FOR
SELLING "WET" PAPERS.
The extremee to which prohibi
tion may go Is Illustrated by ths
following from the Cincinnati En
quirer, dated Atlanta, Ga.:
Matthew Mlndy, a newsboy, was
held under 1500 bond here today
charged with selling New York,
Jacksonville and Cincinnati news
papers containing liquor advertise
ments. The case, which will be
heard Friday, Is the first of Its kind
to be brought here under Georgla'o
new prohibition law.
Notice By Publication
In the District Court of Musko
gee County, State of Oklahoma:
No. 6207
Maud Allen Plaintiff.
Vs.
Frd Allen Defendant.
The defendant, Fred Allen, will
take notice that he has been sued
in the above named court by
tho plaintiff, Maud Allen, for Di
vorce, for desertion, and th'it un
ices' ho antwer the petition of tin
plaiuliff, Maud Allen on or befirc
the 19th day of November 1010,
the allegations set forth in tnid
petition will be taken as confessed
and judgment rendeied according
ly. In Witness Whereof, I have
hereunto let my hand and affixed
the seal of said District Court this
the 6th day of Oct 1016.
C. H.Shaffer Court Clerk
Tom L. Fuller, Deputy Clerk
Cieu. V. I'mker, Attorney fcr
Plaintiff.
With a dolerr inalion to never ccar c nnd to light on until every
'election olhcial in Oklahoma is .'ailed h.i denies black men their
liberty and J ice access to the voting pin i!o?c, tho Negroes of Okla
homa have risen up in arms to, with V.'.v dollars slam these seoun
jdrcls and nunls into the Federal eourl.-. Mi most of the countie
of this stt'te the Negroes have in Ian- numbers registered uri
molested l.at in :.! Inlosh, Muskogee, Wnj-onci and Okluskec coun
ties, the real bl.uk bell of Oklahoma. I "ere Iwib been a Migrant vio-
laium oi utc ream rsuprcmc court d timou and Negroes have beea
intimidate I antl a I ii.-cd by the nuniciu of (Jo . Williams. For in
stance, at Renlie illc, a Ncero t-jv.n in Mcintosh county, wher
there are ifcO ekdura, four Ncgrucj are lrir .-.tared. At Eufnula,
with about '100 bik electors, six ha.e betii permitted to qualify.
Mi the city of Muskogee, with about 12.000 odd Negroes, their
rights have 1 ecu curtailed and denied with u viciousness unheard
'' ir th'n stnte. At Roley, which is . "f untul in Paden District No. 2,
.th r "'J o !.l f i vlors, nrl a sina'o Ncjro rc.jktc red save and ex
e; I ihi(v or louv who aililiate with Ao )K moralie party. Wagoner
unty rrtg" Liar; were equally as ri'.hlcss in their disregard for
he dliztu'liir r'i'hit- of black men and tho lime is ripe for a fear
ess and dctui .ine 1 stand against the outrageous encroachment of
'ou thorn prejudice. There will he no hogging for the assistance ot,
ny political party in this fight. It is a problem (hat belongs solely
.o black men and they propose to shoulder their own burden and
'ace the enemy with b'nek initiative and intelligence.
In the supplcmcnl.il registration, which begins the 18th and
ontinues for ten (Vyn, the Negroes of the various counties who
uivo not been permit ted to relator intend to peaceably and lawfully
resent themselves before the registrar. They propose to have
'resent with them witnesses. On election morning these same
Negroes, registered or unregistered, propose to present themselves
o vote and have witnesses in this instance. Alo, with this record
nade, they propose to file suits for damages in the Federal courts
xgainst every election official who denies black men their Consti
utional rights. Packing this move arc all of tho Negro newspapers
f the state, who have started already a campaign for funds. Law
'crs will be employed and a vigorous and forceful fight be made to
jrosecutc cverr cowardly attempt to confiscate the liberty that is
ustly the right of black men.
A citizens committee has been formed to hold the many dol
urs that are pouring into this fund, the members of which are Dr.
V. B. Whitby, president of the Oklahoma City bianch of the Natlon--uillory,
president ofjhcjAlur-kogco Negro Business Men's League.
d Association for the Advancement of Colored People; Hon. E. N.
aid Hon. O. W. Gurley, a heay taxpayer and property owner of
Tulsa.
Every loyal member of the race is asked to contribute to this
'und, the time is short and the finance is very much needed. Every
lollar contributed will bo accounted for each week through the col
lmns of the Negro Journals of this state. The move is non-partisan
mtirely, the guiding spirits of the movement arc actuated by but
ne purpore nnd that is the desire to cffcctualize the black man's
ight to do anything in Oklahoma, that, under tho law, any other
nan may do. If you love your race if your race pride is worth a
lime or a dollar cash it now by sending your financial assistance
";o any of the members of the Finance committee whose addresses
ollow :
Dr. A. B. Whitby, 3151j E. Second St., Oklahoma City.
Hon. E. N. Guillory, 207 So. Second St., Muskogee, Okla.
Hon. O. W. Gurley, 114 North Greenwood, Tulsa, Okla.
-1
the Trice is" right, if its bought of.
$
B(
118 ers
212 N. 2nd
Money to Loan Opposit of Krti
Midland Valley R. R.
"AHKANPA3 KlVPll ROUTE"
NKW TIME CAM)
EFFECTIVE SUNDAY, MAUCII oih, 101C
2-TRAENS DA1LY-2
e'ween Muskogee & Tulsn. Okla. Dot ween Mnskegce, & Ft. Smith
E AS r ROUND
No 4 Motor Train Fcr Ft. binith uml points beyond 7:45 a. na
s'o 2 For Ft Smith nnd poiuU beyond 0:20 p. m
'o. 0 From Pswhu-Un and I ul-n 10; 40 a. m
To.2 Wichita, Ark City ami TuNn 0:15 p. m
WLSTiiOUND
n'o. 1 For Tulsa, Ark City und Wichita 8:00 a. m.
tfo.fi For rulusind Inr.vl.iuha Cj'Op. m.
sTo. 7 Fiom Fi. Stnitii and point hi yond 1 1 :45 p. m.
N'o 3 (Motor Triiin) Fr m Kt Smith ni.d pointf. beyond 7: 80 p. m.
FOR l'UUTUKR INFORMATION
Phone 1308 or 495 Muskogee, Okla.
hone 374 1
iwnweD
Dr. J. C. PUTNAM,
Chicago Dentist
Tnvprl to Fite Rowsey wilding
Cor, Okemulgee and Socoud Sts.
Open livening Until
sunuciy iu w
Suites 20-207
