THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow j moderate
south winds, becoming variable.
Highest temperature yesterday, 55; lowest, 44.
1 Mulled neat her, mnll and marine reports un page It.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 58.
NEW YORK, ' SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1916.
ONE CENT
la drfster New Vork, I F.ltewhera 1
Jrrufy City and Newark. I TWO CENTS. I
Copyright, 1916, by thr Bun Printing and Pu'jlithinp Aociatton.
HUGHES SCORNS!
unlove dmno
FOR TRADE WAR
Country Far From Prepared
In )lcet Tost -Bel lum
Conflict.
AXT.-DHIPIXG LAW
CALLED "FARCICAL"
Candidate Declares "It Is
Wor.sc Than Useless
a, a Defence."
ITS PHRASEOLOGY
EXCITES HIS DISGUST
Wanls "People Shall Thinl.
Now. Xot When It's
Too Late."
IliCiiEsTni. X. Y., Oct. 27. The fourth
Western tour nf Charles V.. Hughes
Ms tun two days In New England and
uii-Stato Now York, nnd yet It Is abso
luttly certain that his nuctlngs arc rel
atively larger. Ills receptions rela
te rly friendlier, the applause for hU
programme relatively stronger than on
h.s third Western lour.
Obviously homcthltig has occurred to
liicicase the public regard for the
iTesldontlil aspirant. Just what It Is
tannot 1-e craped altogether, although
It seems fairly obvious that his ex
pllrlt dellnltlon of the duty of n Presi
dent who wants to be all American and
his unmistakable refutation of alien
Influence have had the most powerful
Irfl'irnce In his favor.
Tins was strongly demonstrated
Urv In Hochcster to-night when Mr.
Hughes gripped the good will of 6,000
Persons In Convention Hall nnd was
shown almost as forcibly this after
",oon when lie spoke to Urpe crowds at I
ftlca. Auburn nnd Geneva. It 'nrre J
I actually, ns seems apparent, a rising
tide of Hughes sentiment. up-State
Now York Is feellnK the pull of that
tide Monroe county and ltochester,
ftlnay Republican, promise Mr.
Hushes the largest plurality the com
tn'irltv ever cavo to a Republican Can
dida tc.
Itepllr to Wllann.
It n-ns not the American declaration
'on. 'hnt caused the 5,000 In Conven
t'on ,,ll to chi-cr so Insplrlngly,
Si r i.l liy tlie m eater directness of
fan-, .innlmr which has eliarncterlzed
' 'I'tus of Mr. Hunhcs In the past
',i .r two, lie made It a po'nt to
l.i tly to tin speech President
i on del. v ere, 1 jesterday In Clncln
i ' d Mr Hughes to lead the Prel
viit ,. ,vy natetnent representing the
Il 'pj-1. :m candidal" as arguing that
'! wu making so many trade
" .v tl' it the I'nlted States had
!' .ck out for Mivaeo competition.
. t w is 'In- t-nf of It.
' oked him to read that the
'' h I calmly advanced the
'v ': lii'inilng" clause nttached to the
I u n-ood li'.v ns a sutllclent nrotec-
t AHT...111 Industry. There were i .,Urr ll(.t jj.iioii to K.nn that his favor
' ii. tVnjs about the Pfesidt nfs .u oirl v York city by t;n,0nn.
' .1 h that prU-kdl Mr. Ilugltei: Anot.r thousand w.iti placed at --n
' a ''imnping tinswer. Ami llni
i t-i :ir , in nis comnailveness, i
i;t niMio-i as wuiiiy as ctiii mat
'.utile ntidlence 'n Jlostoti last
t.
, ..o i .. . I
.ill, ini-ei. .nr.
Hughes,
i.oiiul.ir '
3 Introduiid by the
vl ' ff Itochf St.. Illr.im IM!!i.il(in
' glotig heart! when a vol.,
1 r- .i of the turmoil w'th "You
re fie only honest Oovvrnnr New Yoik
vsr Vad," nado sure of Iniprcs4lng the
""H'e nf Jtochister with his stand ns
'i '..r protection of the American rights
'"1 ng.irds alien machinations. He
J' -i.. light;
' " .ropose to have an American Ad-stritloi-.
which shall know no Inter
"' ''it American Interests, which shall
' dcilicted fr"tn Its purpose by any
ei's i.v any .-ii,. machinations, by
v 'Irleratloii of this group or that
s' ii I ! snlelv devoted to tho Interests
cf the pei.iile nf thu Cnltfil States,
' oinpreheiisH e- Priigrniiiiiie.
"We propose, n comprehensive pro-rr-n,
, (or ,,e pniteellon of American
' - s We are thinking of protection
'. tiny points of view, and with re
! o a cimprehinslve rafeguarding
y 'ere its of our people. We desire
'.ive the ntitlonol honor maintained,
.ir tuest'ge hclghtenisl and our in
i . ,, , . . (
" I as it ought lo be.
'.'ir jusi ii iiience. inro litiioor ine
propo-e
to liroleef (li rli'lils nf
Am .. ..i.i.. .7. , .
i citizens on land nnd sea,
"V . r, .i,.. i. . . ,
-ii ine worm.
, ,,ii. r ine .wnerie.lll i roo laie lu iirirm nir i'(.,i...,i 11, ,-,-
li" fails the citizen who is lawfully sen.
i 'i- i.g his calling niiiv f"e that the I However, he hurllrd a special mes-,J-'
to him a symbol of tlie full pro- senger to Hie New York Cential depot
' "' whleli he, ns a citizen, how- and put a pleasant message aboard Ho
-I- n cnoie. or nowever talented or lm-
is entilleii, liy virtue of his cltl
' privileges of eltlzer.ahlp arc not
' "'il to the, Administration to grant
r"'W ' hold at Us. pleiiHiie. We do not
' ' ''-i-ldema to iiisjii'iiso Willi Amvrl.
'i 'li-tn. We do not ect Prr sldents
" ' gsgn in nny mlutr.iry or purely
"'" "'ii policy. We give a vast ills-
re' ,
w 11 issurlly intrust our Kxvmi-
i wide intigo of Judgmeni In
" ' i 'he londltlon of the lm
ti. 'iiis witli which thev hav"
'ie.il i.i.i We expert that Ihey will
1 "i I .n iircoiilnnce with corns!
l
'.d that in Hon will he tak II
tve mu Interests lu nil our nia.
. 'tiling to Hi" fundamental
! hiiI.mo iiiniri'iiiistltutlnn.il
I o he privcptH of Interna
a Then u s Ihe safety of the
slmweil his disgust over
C'vufliiiit'il uh fourth Page.
TOBACCO WASTE
PARKER IS HEADED OFF,
inrrr
I
Now York lias No lVo'pre.ssive !
Klcc((i's mid Few Stales
Offer Opportunity.
Progressive party "Irreconcllables"
nro going to have, a difficult time. Nn-
1
umber 7 voting for their lorn- lat.dl- TKA DK KEPT TN THK DANK
date, John M. Parker, who was nouil- .
natfd for VIcu-Prvsldent on a ticket
headed for a fiw days by Theodore j Worth -Ml Cents a I'dUlld, Of
ltooscvelt. I
New York Progressives conceded es-1 $25.0(10 for tile Lot, As
lorday that Parker could not get a ' , . .
vote In this State, there being no Pro-1 SPl'tS hXpPl't.
gresslvc f lectors named to Mile for, 1 , ,
The only way the voters ooubl express
their preference. It was said, would be I Thlity-one tons of the finest plug to
to wrllo Parker's name In on the bal-1 bncco, purchased for the use of enlisted
I,0,1:.."'...!!!".! "in "lr,.,."f ,l0lb, "m ' " Is to be sold as "condemned stores
pressed that .1 ballot of this sort would 1 ' .. ... ...
get very far with the . lection boaid. nt ,1H or' -Nllv' iu1' ", No"
The same situation prevails In prno-1 vember 2 by order of Joscphus Daniels,
tioauy every state In tlie riilon. Fx- I
ecpt for two or thrie States. In which
tho ProKiesslves named their electors
beforo tin- national conventions, as In
Montana, or made other arr.uiKcments
to make It posslblo to voto for the Pro
Kresslve candidate, .Mr. Parker will fig
ure no more In tho ballot count than
he would If he were not runnlmr.
In the. few States when1 thero are
Progressive electors the Progressive
voter Is not much better 01T. If be votes
for the Progressive, electors for Vice
President he Is naturally estopped from
otlnc for either the Itepuhllc.iu or
Democratic electors and Is thus deprived
of rastlnK a vote for the Presidency.
There are not many Hull Moose, how
fcver loyal they are to their party, who
will sacrifice their vote for the Presi
dency to cast a ballot for the Progres
sive Vlce-l'reildentlal candidate, who
has no more chance of Kettlmt a vote In
the electoral collette than "Hutch" Mc
Devitt. the perennial candidate from
Wllkesbarre.
This was the way the Progressive sit
uation was elred up csteril.y by the
Progressives themselvi. They con
fessed they dlil not know how many
States had Progressive electors nnd did
not care, as It could not affect the situ
ation In the slightest degree.
SWING TO HUGHES
SHOWN IN BETTING
Odds Lengthen From Even
Money and 10 to 0 to
10 to l in Wall St.
The swlntr In sentiment to Mr. Hughes
was reflected yesterday In the election
betting; Many wagers were made In
all Street on the basis of 10 to S that
Hughes will defeat Wilson. Fir a week
the best odd obtainable have heui 10
to 9. It was estimated by commission
ers last night that between (".('"O and
JDO.000 was bet during the day.
There was a Hood of Hughes money
on the Street. Most of It c im from two
Stock Hxchange houses, one of them a
lending banking firm, the other a com
pany that handles n lot of Western busi
ness The "Waldorf crowd sent down
tli'.uon to be placed on Hughes at 10
to 0.
The largest single bet of the day re
ported wa of $ l.ooa on Wilson, plared
by IMward McUu.nle, a curb broker,
against fS.OH" on Hughes, The odds on
Mr. Hughes to carry New Vork State
remain at 10 to 7. liven money Is of
fered on the Presidential r..sult In Ohio,
(low Whitman continues tti f.ivorltit In
the Statu betting, with the odds ranging
n urn 10 to r, to ;i to
It was repottid that "t'urley Joe"
CnssMy, former President of the Hor
ough of Qui ens, who was a visitor to
the curb market during the afternoon,
bad brought along n hale of Wilson
motley, Cassldy di tiled this.
One of the freal: bets was J1.O0U even
money that Hughes will not carry Al-
1. ...... ...,..,. 1... lAfttlrt A VMiim Ntlll.
Mn(, that Hughes will not carry Krl
.'.
Alli.l
or Kings counties ny i'V
plmallt ach One man bi-t 5 even
money that the plurality of IIucIks In
m:iti 1...I . 1 film ..veil
Niw Yolk Stale will not evceid im.000.
Another bet, JTTiii to 1300, was Hindu
that lluuhis will not entry the State by
lOd.oiiii and fson to was net mat
tin KepubUcan candid iti will not carry
Kings county by 15,ono,
One bet, amounting to J.'OO at even
money, was placed that Wilson will not
carry Eric county.
Ilns n,r.ll liven on llimhes.
S.vs- I'i'ASClsro, Oct. 27 A. I.. (Jreen,
a wealthy mining man of Unite, Mon.,
added to hi" election bets yesterday by
placing two wagers of $.",.n emii on
Hughes to carry Ohio, at own money.
He had ptcViou-ly placed J2.S0O at even
money on Hughes to win. tl recti said
hts otlglnal Intention was lo bet ts.wo
on Hughes, but that ho was ptepared to
lncieasotlicsu.il If Wilson money proved
plentiful.
HUGHES GREETSC0L0NEL.
Hustles Messenger to I'IiiiiiiiIoh's
j Train nt Itoeliester. j
j RociirsTKi:. N. V., Oct. 27 Col, Itont-e-i
velt iinsed through this city -it ll:3o,
..-..ia. n tn.n ertr on ihn v v in .eiv l or
- - ' - - - ..
rnm Western lour. Charles i:.
it....l.AU . ..el l ,i the Hnt. I Seto.e.q. hail'
;
riot bren told of Irs champion s .tppituch
ne..i .li.i tint uiirm .inviiiniL- ii.ooi u otiin
uiJ iU iV. .
Colonel's train.
CANADA WINNING AMERICANS.
Iiiiiiiluriitlon In West loerenses
Since flu t brenl. of Wnr.
Movtiu'v'., (uc . li-t 27. American
umnlgratloti in wesloin C.inail.i has
hteadlly lin leased slnco the oiitliteali of
ih" war, according lo J S Denpls, chief
of Um liuit tmei.t of Natutal Hcsoutces
nf Lie Catrnlltiil PacllV lpillrnid, wl.n
t -stifled i.i for tin Dominions i:..nl
Tradis Consii'sslon here lo.ilav. The
commission la liupilrlng Into the trod.,
conditions of the i n.-.! u with a view to
lu pr 'Vlng ilrf n lli 't, lilt's wot Id
mir " at the end of tlm war.
A large number of tlie American set.
tiers become naturalUnl Canadians,
Mi. Di mils said, and take a promimnt
part In municipal nnd provincial affairs,
Aut as a whole they are not so deeply
concerned ns other Canadians In tho
world war,
iCHARGEDTODAMIELS
Thirty-one Tons of Finest
I'lnjr Offered for Sale at
Navy Yard as Junk.
Secretary of the N'avv.
This tobacco was bought after samples
had been selected by the enlisted men,
who for ears have been acknowledged
connoisseurs, nnd It Is In perfect condi
tion, although It ha" been advertised by
the Navy Department In the H'dsfe
7'rmlr Joiirinil among other "Junk" as
"unfit for use."
This latest extraxag.ince of the Sec
retary ol the Navy Is In line with many
of bis former activities, which attracted
public attention last spring when many
thousands of dollars worth of material
which could have been profitably re
tnlned by the nuvy was sold us Junk.
It was at this time that Daniels In
curred tint keenest criticism by ordering
the sale of the navy's cut glass at auc
tion. This glassware was sold for less
than 20 per cent, of Its value.
Trmle Not Informed.
Not only Is this tobacco, advertised
for sale as "condemned stores." In per
fect condition, but Its sale has not been
advertised In any of the leading to
bacco trade papers so tobacco men
could have an opportunity of knowing
about the sab- a'.d thus permit the Navy
Department to obtain a fair price. It
Is merely mentioned among other Junk
in n xm.ill ndvertlsment on the forty-
f!rt page of the Ifimlf Trodr Journal
o( October 21. over the signature of
Josephus Daniels. Secretary of the Navy.
This advertisement reads:
SAl.i: OF OLD MATF.KIAt. at the
Nnvv Yard. New York. N. Y There
will be sold at the Navy Yard. New
York. N. V.. material belonging to the
navy, condemned as unfit for use,
theleln, consisting of whaleboats, cut
ters, steamers, provisions, f.o.000
iHiiltids of plug tobacco, shoes, thread,
canteens, bottles, wine glasses and de
ciliters, ponchos, leather belting, can
as bags, hose, parking, twist drills,
books, furniture, -bathtubs, wagons,
drill cloth 'Hid tlanm-l clippings, ma
chine tools, hand tools, pumps,
boilers, blowers, engines, Iron and steel
pipe. 2,000 tons of scrap Iron and
St. el, &C
The sale will be for cash to tho
highest bidder by sealed proposals to
be opt tied at 111 A. M. Nov. 2. IS IK.
Schedules containing form of propos
als and terms of sale can be obtained
upon application to the Hoard of Sale,
Navy Yanl. New York. N Y.
(Signed ) JOSKPlll'S DAN1KLH.
Secietary of the Navy. IW-12-16.
Ilrat of It Kind.
At the last public sale nem in ine
New- Yotk Nuvy Yard six months ago a
small inutility of the same kind of to
baico In precisely ns good condition was
sold for 17 cents a pound, which In
cluded the v tent Internal revenue tax.
Deducting this tax from the selling fig
ure the actual price obtained by the
Navv liepartmct.t was ;i cents a isiund
The market ptlco to-day of this class of
tobacco (and prevailing at the time of
the last sale) is fiom 40 to s2 cents a
jHlUtlll.
Thse figures were obtained esterilay
hy Tub Si'.v from n authoritative
source. Albert II. lllllmatt. a tobacco
...,..i-t iniil general manager m no-
T,.i,.:.,n Viniif. accompanied a
,.v I
leporter to the nasy anl and cxamlneii
Die tobacco He eabl without uualltlca
tlon that the thirty-one tons advertised
as unfit for use was the best tobacci of
Its kind available in the market to-day.
Mr. Hlllman lslted lluild'ng No. ti4A
In the ii.ivn MUd, and .n the presence
.f ..riiolnve.-s
I nie at'. I nii'i ine !
. . .. ...i. ..... hv.. i. i.i.tn ..r iiih
,., ,, .....,,,1,,.. Kie.
I -."i"' !''. ' 1' .
The navj udvertlsenieir. sain dv.uuu
poiiinl, hut there Is more than that
Tlie toli.i hi was jnoiierly Htiimped,
. , ....1 l. r. w-,111. i, i
U ng iiPKOxmia,
.'II 11. .Ill 111 lie. .. v . - !.. r
i.i .l.'erloratlon whatever.
.Mr i num. in
took sheets of It and opened them with
a knife. With the exception or son
IMiuuds, which It was declared was
wormy, the tobacco expert said It was
ev ellent stock.
"1 sav tills without fear of contradic
tion," said Mr. Hlllman at the end of
his tot. "It Is in such perfect con
dition that It Is in per cent, better than
when It was purchased, for the reason
that it has been seasoned. Concerning
Ihe 400 pounds declared to be worm
eaten, that might have been ttue, but
now that the summer Is past the worms
have disappeared, nnd It Is Just as good
as ever for smoking purposes.
Worth fS.t.OIKL
"lllght this moment in the oner mar
ket this tobacco would bilng not less
tha.i 10 cents a pound. In other words,
there Is stored In that old building lo
in cm worth approximately 2.".000
which is labelled Junk. If It Is necessary
,o dispose of It that prlco could be ob-
. . .. . . .. -i ... .
. ta'.i.e.l in ine loo.icco inaihci. u uiiei-
..i Pnei.. m, u
. . . ... . ...
' 'be wholi-r.ale price, it wouiu uring ,u
.. .. ........ ,
I Atiotner tiling wnicu i iniua win oe
Hibstaritlated by men In the tobacco
trade selling this tobacco In lots of
.l.ilOii pounds each, as advertised In the
navy schedule, niakts It a prohibitive
sale, only rpeculntots can afford to buy
It. If It had been offered In lots of 5n0
pounds each Hie smill dealers and the
retailers could luk It and pay tho mar
ket price for It! Most of this tobacco
was prjpared by l.nros Hros. of Hlcli
innnil, who mike Ihe lltiest in the woild,
1-1... l..,l.... Illlee lili'll tl rnntnliis is flirt
tine r.t olitalnnlile." j
When rnlliited men in tho navy yard
wro iiiestlonid ns to why this huge
iiinoiilit of tobacco Is lo In; sold none
ntilil give n icasnn. Suilors and petty
oillceis said 'lie tobacco was used for
tti chewing and smoking, and that
1 tin nicotine habit had shown no de.
nase in popularity In tlm navy
Um n Hear Admiral 1'sher, comrnind-
nit of the navy .vnrd, was askul by
Tin; St'N last night to explain the sale
..f this tobacco as Junk be said;
"1 In Hem It is an iicciimulatiou of to
bacco from the ships. I didn't know
there was so much of It, 1 suppose It
Is being sold because It Is musty or dry
or s., imihliig. It mutt be unserviceable
In tome way."
BERLIN SAYS CHANNEL RAID
COST THE BRITISH 14 SHIPS
Official Report Tells of Sinking or Damaging of Eleven
Steamers and Two or Three War Craft
in Attack on Transports.
ItFRI.I.V
(via London!. Oct
27. At 1
I..,., .i...
.. .v.- . . .... .i
or three torpedo boat destroyers or tor- '.
pedo boats were sunk or damaged by .
. v.v.iuitu lurjicnu ooai squauruu iiiurs
day night In the KiikIIsIi Channel be
tween Folkestone and Houlcgno, actord-
I Intf to nn ofllcl.il communication Issued
here. Tim r!..r.,,.n ..,in 11,0111,. ro.
I ncrc. i no Merman torpedo flotilla re
j turned safely to Its base without any
loss.
The communication says:
Parts of our torpedo forces moved
from a Uerniau bay Thursday night
through tho straits of Dover nnd
Calais to the Folkestone. Houlogne
line in the Kngltsh Channel,
According to the report of Com
mander Mlchclson at least eleven out
post steamers and two or three de
stroyers or torpedo boats were sun
partially or totally near hostile ports.
Some members of tho crews who wete
saved were captured.
Several other guarding vessels nnd
at least two dcMlioycrs were heavily
damaged by toipedoes and nrtlllety
11 re. Also the Kuglisli post steamer
Dueen was sunk south of Folkestone,
the ctew having tlmy to leave thu
ship.
In the Channel near the Flame light-
DEMOCRATIC FUND
$1,006,283 TO DATE1
First Keport of Cninpaljrii He-!
eeipts Tells of .H,mJ2
Contributors,
A preliminary report of the Demo,
cratlc campaign fund, which, undtr thi
law, must be filed not later than to-day
with the Clerk of the House of Hcpre
sentatlves, vvas made public last night
and shows that up to the present time
J1.00G.2S3 has been received from U,
ti2 contributors. Cleveland H. Dodge,
who graduated with President Wilson in
tho class of '73, Princeton, heads the
list with a contribution of "3,00V, J2?,
000 being In honor of the class of "7.
President Wilson contributed J2.500.
Four years ago the total amount re
ceived by the treasurer of the Demo
cratic National Committee for campaign
purpose was $1,110,932. Inasmuch aa
two wieks remain In which to collect
funds, the total this year la ixpcvicl to
exceed that of 1912.
The amount received this year In con
tributions of less than 1100 was I2U1,.
Mt'.. Contributions from those giving
more than $100 were K( 1,1.1'". Tin- dis
bursements of the commltttt tip to O.-to-b.
r 21 were 1931.323. which includes
IH5.S07 paid through the Western
headquarters
Manliest Donation Due Cent.
The sum of 37,03s, left over from the
St. Iouls convention, was turned over
to the Democratic National Committee
and Is included In tho total. Most of
the contributions run betwien $l"o ami
ll.oon. Tin- smnl'ist contr'butlon was
1 cot, but ns the law only provides for 1
an accounting of mitrlhutlniiM of
amounts of loo or over. It was not In- 1
eluded in the preliminary report. j
The preliminary list of contributors,
In addition to Mr. Dodge and Hernard ,
Hiruch nf New York, who gave $2ri.nuo, ,
Is as follow s : 1
C F.. Davis. Chicago; T 1. C'iad
bourne. New- York; diaries It, Crane.
i nicago, mm .101111 iiuriou i anc, wui
neb.igo, Neb, firi.OOti fach; Thomas i.
Jones and David H. Jones, hoth of t'h -cago,
tl2"0i) each; It. J. Hiynolds
Wlnstoii-S.ilem, N C. ; Nicholas V.
Hrady, New York: James C, Hrad, New
York ; John D. It. in, New York; W. ".
Nibble',., Chicago. T L. ChailboiirtU', Jr.
New York. II. M Win-t'in, Chicago, a:.l
William A. Tildeii. Cli'.-ago, JIii.iuhii
each: Kl. Ii.ir.i ii. i.ong, r r.imrngn.im.
Mass, ; Francis Hurtoti Ilar-lsoii, N
Yotk, iiiid J. !. Oerard, New Y"rk,
I7.10H i Mch: Crank M. Patii rwui. i ihlo.
kuitnlK" Lonj, St. l.ou ii
II. .N.
Coolidc. I'ltchiuitg. Mas,
I.. Doheney.
Los Anv'iles. Jacob H. Schlff. New York.
W. (1. Slurp, F.lyria. Ohio, Pettnsylv aula
Slate Committee, linger Sullivan. Chi
cago; IMward D Hurley, Chicago, Mar
cus Jncobowsky, Chlrago, nnd F, S.
Prabody. Chicago, 43,000 e ich.
I'lnnl lleport After 111,-clloii.
, , , . , . , . that would Involve American lives
In the fln.i ll.nnclal icport, which all , .., , fl. tn BmtcmeMt
political patties must make public not j ..... f
later than six days after election, all 1111 'l"'10" "u I""1
contributors of lo0 or mcr.. will be, Mlent nn Plot Drtnlla.
made public. In tin case of Henry ford .
and other wealthy livn, who are spend. 1 Secretary Haker was obviously uacom
Ing money for lb" lection of the Demo-1 foiiable m commenting on his statement
cratlc tlc'kt. t, they must submit an In-1 of last night
dividual icport showing hoiv mu ii thev 1 "The Mexican opponrnts of the de
evneiiiled beeatiMi they did riot ron -
tribute directly to the Democr.iti. am.
palgn comntittci. but dliectcd th' 'i.itrl
butlon of niom-y pertonallv.
CADETS GET U-BOATS' GRANDMA.
llnlliuid snliiiiarliie to He lliiiiled tn I
( Inson Point To-diu.
The llolliind submarine, gtandmother
. ... , .....i n. . roi...
oi pres.,,. in., .
lives of the tiniiusf.i cimiiy. is to oe-
come th" properly of tin Cltson Point
Mllltirv e.nleiny tn-.lny. She will be
.Military .xiauuii '" "")'
hauled on till'.- motor ir... s.s no,,, .,.
son Square Harden, where she has bent
on exhibition at the Irlh bazaar, to
Chihot, Point, wneie'n full regiment of
.a..,
.. ..I... j ..111 1. i nivn tl T , 111 Hie I1H
guard of honor.
Tin. ineseiilat'on will be made bv
Justice Daniel F. Cohalan, John Devoy
and John Kenne. i .-pn Hunim. tlie
Fulled Irish Society, the most r nt
owiir, and the boat will b" forniallv re-
C'-lleil liv lllotller Holierl, lllret'il' of.
, I.'..... Inei.l I .illlnnn lel... ..s
l II C liuiinritl,'
jsslhtnnt iiuliicei mi tlie in ii tin s morn
than 11 Irty-fmir ".irs ago, will accotn
any h"r ou ln-r Ia.t Jourm y.
Th" .sibtimrltii.' I much smaller ai d
lighter tit tti her i.u-cessori She was
built In KllzabeU.port. N .1 , by John T
Holland She I" 21 feet long, 7 feet 1
Inches deep, 0 ftct beam and weighs
nineteen tons. During most of her life
she lay lu Mill Hlver, New Haven, She
will never see the water ngaln, but will
be housed at the uciidciny tl a histori
cal relic.
ship there was a strikingly actlvo
trotllc by liosnlt.il shins,
Our torpedo boats safely returned
,0 (jcrma waters without any loss,
... ,., ... ..-i..
I.onion, Oct. 27. Ten Herman ttr
pedo boat destroyers nttcmptcd to mid
tliu Hritlsh cross-Channel trnnsori ser
vlen Inst night, but fulled. Two (Serman
destroyers were sunk and the othem
driven off after they succeeded In sink
lug one empty transport, the Queen.
Tho crew was saved. The Ilrltlsh olllclul
tepoit sajs:
One Hrltlsh torpedo bont destroyer,
tho Flirt, Is missing, and another de
stroyer, the Nubian, was disabled by u
tcupedo and tan aground. Nino of the
crew of tho Kill t were saved.
31 ON MISSING BOATS.
Cnnlnln, Crew nnd Horsemen
of
( nliotln llrlleted to lip Lost.
LoniiO.v, Oct. 27. Two bontu contnln-
Ing the captain and sixteen of the crew
of the Donaldson l.lne steamer Cabotla
nnd fourteen Canadian horsemen have
not been sighted since the Cnbotla was ;
men perished, unles.s they were picked
up by un outward bound vessel.
BAKER DISAVOWS
CHARGE OF TREASON
With Secretary Lansing, He
Denies "Plot" Story Was
a Political Move.
WAStilNGTOV, Oct. 27. Secretary
Haker's sensational announcement Inst
-i-i i.i .i.,. ii.i-..i enemies nf .
, ; , ,.
ion .voniinisiiniion neir in ii-hko-- ii
Villa bandits and assisting Vl'.la to p!m
nn attack on American l!vc, acted a" A
boomerang to-dav and was smo'.hc.ed
promptly In a wave of Indignation,
livery ofllclal, Including Secretary
l-iiilng, and later Mr. Haker himself,
disavow. d any purpose to charge any
one with treason. Mr. linslng said there
was no shred of evidence to support such
a charge and Mr. Haker when asked If
American citizens were involved replied:
"Uh, denr. dear, no."
Strli-jied of Its apparent political trim
mings, the announcement shrank to a
simple statement that ViUa ...mdUs and . XIZ ihy "agree
their Mexican supporters wete detlrnm ,, ., ,.onvlrtlon, but cannot decide
of embarrassing First Chief Carranza j upon the punishment l'nder a new
and that iriformatloii had been received statute tbev may decide whether to send
I Vu .. ... iVta ..T.lM ,ie c.intrr.i.A 1,.,
that they thought the Inte-.veiiing days
before elect. on an opimrtune t'mc t do
so.
I'nrl of Political scheme.
Nitnerourt apologies, ,-xcues nnd ev
p.ariatlons hy AdniLnlltr.-itl.Mi o'M.'.als
failed t.. eliinlnad the Impn slon Uiut
Hi" ann.iiire erii.'iit was part of a political
scheme, which fa'led because; SVentary
Haker went too far and Se.tet.ir Lan
sing and Counsellor Polk stepped In.
Army otllcers generally regard the fo.
railed announcement as having nn mill
i.uy signllli atu- den. Pershing has
mul. r his comma tid 12,ono well seasoned,
well equipis-d troops and Is still In M"-
.-o "to get Villa" and dl-ptrse Villa
uands. The bonier Is guanli-d by 100.. '
(khi National Ouatdsmcn and 40.iiij0 reg-
ulars. 1
, "The onlv oolitlcal slgnliranee that 1
can be attaihed to it" I the announce
mi nt of last nUht. said Secretary Haker
t.-d.iy. "Is that 't may prevent the Mex
icans aim naiiiiii ii. un u-iiiK mc in
Identlal campaign to further their own
nesimis,
In response to i'irMl'His. Secretary
Haker admitted Hint similar plots by ,
Villa bandits have hern legulnrly re-1
ported to b.S department II,. s.ild the
"n.indlls ll'id
their Mexican followers" "
wiie tlieius. n i s tii,. "enemies or Hi" Ad
ministration" to which ho referred.
, Sicrctary Lansing authorized a state
ment to-d.iy which futthcr ilaritied
;,, - ,, -et-u Haker s nniioutn emeu'
"ii as i.ot for the purpose nf creat-
ing nnlltical sentiment In nnv way." he
silil "It was for illscouraBlng the at
tempt. Mel. an icfiiiees in this conn.
try are oppnnents of the ptesent Oov
eiiinicut and naturally plotting against
,t.
"I cannot conceive of American cltl
zens who would be so heartless and so
w.intou and unpatriotic as to lake a step
'f.Klo fiovenitiient of .Mexico," h" said
would of course be gl.nl to complicate
relations between the Fulled States nnd
Me.xUo. We liavo Infoniiat'.oi to this
, ,.fT. t .-"
"Can miu give tiny Idea of what, this
Information Is'."' he was asked.
"No. I ".limit"
"Why Is our announcement so vague
, on this point ""
i "1 cannot answer that."
I After mai.v refusals tc renlv to car.
' lesiii
iiileuts seeking light the Secretary
ne ilnallv Mi'd .
. f ... ,,, .
.., ........ ,n fcJV .i.,.. k i .,ii,i,,i,.,i,i
I that any llepuiillcans would sanction!" dm.hiuttve Heme, forcing her against
1 such an Idea. Hut there niv many who
,.,., ,. -i,... ...
.ll'l'r W 41 ll.l I .. ii .....ii s. . -iieiui.-.s
( (f ()p f.( ,(( ,.l,u.rmn.Mlt ., ,lBht ho
j inclined to cans" trouble"
"Then there was no thought of politics
In niakltiK th" sensational announcement
1111'"11 '.- ........ ...
"Oh, dear, no. Politi
s did not enter
Into my mind at all "
DEUTSCHLAND REPORTED IN.
ii,r I'as.eil ( niies Due In
' llOlirS.
i n'ohkolk, v a , ou. 2, rile 'icriiian
ui.dcisi'.i meroh.nitman Deiitst lilaral, nc
i conllug to r ports In circulation In Nor-
' pdk and II. illinium tn.il iy and to-night.
M di.e at the Virginia capes In the next
few hairs, en route to Hillliliote It Is
declared she sailed from Hreinen two
wicks ago, nnd eucresfull eludid all
Htltlsh patrol bouts.
It vvas reported to. night that the
Detitschland pnssed In tt.e capes shortly
lifter nightfall and proceeded up the
bay, but tills could not lu confirmed.
BEUTINGER JURY, OUT I
8 HOURS, LOCKED UP
Woman Accused of Killing
Husband Had Expected
Speedy Acquittal.
(,'OritT HOOM TS PACKED
Five Children of Defendant
Plan Party for "Mamma"
When Free.
Newahk, Oct. 27. Bight hours nnd
ten minutes aftrr It retired to consider
Its verdict the Jury In the Heutlnger
case was locked up at 11:15 o'clock to
night. When tho twelve men filed out of the
box this afternoon Mrs. Margaret C.
Hetltlnger, her attorneys and. Indeed,
nearly every spectatorbelleved they would
return to the court room within half nn
hour with n verdict nf ncuulttul,
Mrs. Heutlnger, sitting In onothcr
room with Miss Florence Hell, nn nttend
nrit, was certain of ipilck vindication of
. ,,. , ,. ,,r ,.,,, rhels.
tophcr. Her
five little children were
told "mamma" would bo home, for supper,
nnd they liughed and played about their
nunt. who had charge of them. An auto
mobile waited In front of the court houe
for the Intended triumphal return to
Caldwell, N, J.
Defendant SIiovts Anxiety.
Hut ns the hours went on and darkness
came Mrs. Heutlnger Ixg.m to nsk:
"What makes them take so long?"
Finally It grew too late for tno chil
dren, and, bitterly disappointed, they
wete oblled to eat without r.er. Kent
. . . . ,, , . 1
alone iti a ionn. no one alloved to see.
. ., .. 1 , " t
her. Mis Heutlncer was forced to .
undergo an ordeal which was Increasing
1 r.u..- .u uu- iMs-ag.- .i nn, num.
Mie forced hers-If to grea er calm than
she has shown since the trial began and ,
sent word lo the repotters that she was
confident, but Inpatient. She added that
Mier husband left her
i.i-nty 01 ueois. .""tie tnoucni iney m:gui
like to know that
The children grew tired and lln.il'.v
fell asleep In their s-afs 1hc
;irn.-i :i ne waung cuomoim,, ami
tucked In robes while they st.-pt
A i
ctow-.l of 100 or mo-.
stood suleu-iily I
looklrg at them
M.irgat't, the eldest child, iinll."J
something -vas wrong. St ciung to h r
siat ar.d refused to he budged for a long
while after tho others left. Hut at last
she succumbi d, and leaving a final mes
sage. "Tell inatn-n we'll have a pirty
waiting for her she comes home.'
she departed,
The delay may mean that one or two
obstinately refuse to vote for nrqulttnl.
. .,, 1 1(n.
T'i.- .-our room wa pntked to-night
with peotat.irs, who sat iiubtly and
wal'.-d for the verdict. Attorneys, no
'ouriect.ii with the case, who l.r.ow ,
Newark and its people, said It was the
b,.t crowd they ever had seen In a
court room. In the sense that It was
made up of cltlzuis of high standing,
.lur Wns Too llu to Rut.
The Jurv did not nsk for food until It
wns decided to lock them in. I'p to that
time iipparentlv thev had hoped for
agreement and li.nl I n ton lmsv to eat
llvarnlnatloti of a few wltnrfc for the
ilcfcine, the summing up nnd the Judge's
charge mciipled th" time from the open
ing of court until .1:0., o'i lo. k this alter- i
noon, when the Jury tetlrid ;
In suinmln; up the case Prosi cubit I
I Newman said that sympathy should hav
i no pi ire In the trial. He ihcliirt'd that;
.the stage bad been set for sympathy;'
..., ,,,,,,, ,,,., ,., ,,,,,.
' .L. , ,. ,.n, ,,,. , .. k,
of an unhriniv m.irrnd life was told with
lea's and willlngs a ml gnasliMu- or
teeth. Ml n' this, h" I'lf Vlll. d the Jumrs.
was to dlveit their r inils from the cvl-
mil u. i .ud 'heir Judgne-nt.
tiri'Si'i'tltor iti'lsnd that the fact
. I II.
tr'it 'he I'e'endant was a wnu rin should
i in -ilte to different e In cinildei ing th"
else. The law. he pointed out, in ikes
no dlstl'.ctlon or hx luiles m other
parts "f fin "'nuntrv h" mid, hive
br.cuit -eiri'acli on th" .r'tnlnal law
In allowing women lo--'lpr tl-e p."..ilt
of their in 'di els He cliaractcnrcd tills
as a motkeiy upon the administration
of Justice.
Woman Wasn't 1'nrced tn Kill.
Mr. Newman did not deny tlie truth
of the def nci. tli.it Heutlngei'N conduct
was brutal, but he denied Mrs. Heutln
ger was for 'eil to kill her husband. Hi
iin-suoneii ii .ii rs. iieimnger nan pro-
vide,! herself with a revolver fifteen
"""" -'' "' i' .iini inareii ii m,
n mucin ui.iner. way sill HOI IIIU OCR
tho door of her room on the morning of
jnt ll, and whin her hnslund ap-,
proached her why mu dldn t leave the
room b .i.iotlnr do' i- and ci for help.
A vivid plcuio of tin niatrlril life ,,t I
the Hciilli.',-ei s was ilinvvn b itohei t II
aii ai.i-i in -.liiooiili up inr Ule il.-re'it'e.
He ti.
I Of tlie .oiulimrd abuse, except
, "r "' "men" -ween ttie uivor
iiitaine.1
He t,i, I
I tin wife and Hie remarriage
, "' "l" courtship of a girl, only Is. hy a
I fifteen years oldir lie declared
I "in w iie lesiirteii mat lur iiusha'id's
I physio,!!' was like that if ,l.nli .lohns.m,
and added that "unlike .nick he was only
''"""K " "gin women nan ciuiiirur'
Mr Mci'afer pl'ured Heutlnger. a
I gt.n.i ilk size, run.i.g at .virs. Heutlnger.
m auiioaru m wiin glaring
I eves and menac ng list befi.ro her. u',n
-
she pulled the trigger of the tevolver un
consciously In tu rot- lather than in de
sign, lie look forty minutes to give his
sid" of tlie case.
Mrs. Hcutingii's llvo chlldten nccu
picd front seats when sin cniered the
court loom this mornliiK. Sim turned and
stnlled as she took her seat and tlie chil
dish, all walling fur her, began thinning
Msjes m her. Margin' ito and .Marie
whtspf led .something iiciosh flic six feet
or more of sp.ico lictwetii them and their
i mother
John II. de liaus or Washington, I). C
... as ih ilrt witness wlimi Hie case was
i
ciU'eii i. .: nior'iing ii" saiii tietitinger
visited him Ir. Washington In May, 191S.
nnd icpeatcil a pioioittou to him that
he bad mad,' seven veir.s before
He nssciied Heutlnger wanted him to
say he saw a m-in In Mrs. H"utlnjer's
slaleiociu In l'inx, while on hi r way to
the Phllipplr.es on a boat on whlth Mr.
and Mr de Hans won?, passengers. De
Haus said the charge was untrue hut
explained Heutlnger told him he wanted
j the ultlduvlt to hold over hli wife's head.
C0(T"?" .s":
AUdl KALIAN LADIHCI
Three, Hesitations Heported
on Eve of Heferendum on
the. Question.
London. Oct 27, A despatch to
Heuler's Telegram Company from Mel
bourne says M. Hlggs, Minister of the
Treasury of the Commonwealth: A.
Oardlner, Vice-President of the llxecu
tlie Council, nnd A. J. Kusscll, Assistant
Minister of Mat ine, have resigned, It Is
Understood, the correspondent adds, that
they are opposed to conscription.
Ofllclal lepnrts from all the Stntcs.
says the correspond! nt, forecast a vic
tory for conscilptlon.
A referendum Is to be held In Aus
tralia to-day on the queMlnn of com
pulsory military serv'ce. Men nnd wom
en voters of the Commonwealth, at home
and on active service abroad, will be
asked to voto "yes" or "no" on the
question : "Are you in favor of the
Ciovernment having In this grnve emer
gency the same powers over citizens In
regard to remtlrl ig their military ser
vice for the term of this war outside the
Commonwealth ns It now ha in regard
to military service within the Common
wealth?" LINER, ABLAZE, PUTS
IN TO THE AZORES
Chicago, Front Hordeaux to
New York, Safe Witli H55
Souls Aboard.
Wlnrlng her rare with death, the
French t.ln( st.nlllstitli l'llt,-:iL'ii !- celled I
Fayal. Azores Island-, last night with n ,
".V .'"' J . ' 1
-'.. p.-u-M'i grs anu cr"w- 01 .iu snie.
- . . .... ....
i.aiyn H 01 1.0m on ca' leu news 01 inc 1
f ,.rri.:1l of 11,.. ,h!.. 1...1 nL-lit. ..1..1. 1
safe arrival of the ship l.it nljht. i-i.d-'
big :i ila of anxiety for ti.e otll ers of
(f , no , V(.w ynr,. , i.,. (r
relntlv ,.,, (rniil. f ,v(. pa!.. ,.K(.rs
,h! , ,,...,,., ,w i, , , tl
... ,inL.u'isI, tl... 11.., im l.:.,v.lv desoat, h
ndded. F.rst li"ws of the ship's Vir 1
F.rst news of the ship's Vir
I'SS.Ige ft
Cht-ui.'
iiMJ
ir!aed tH'in loi.do:.,
w.i..
st-,ti!i!p Clil.-ngo. r.-ci.eli. bound
wer-ijep.,, irdeau to N;w York, tire In
5 (.,. l;-;,,,. . i jinw at F.ival
line
The Chicago left ltorde.vix las! S-.tr:-
day morning and under ordinary condi
tions should have nrriv.d In New York
next Mondav or early Tuesday. If fh
made her Usual fpcod. she was well past
the Azores wh". the lite was discovered,
and turned on her trail to seek tho near
est port. She curries only second and
third class passengers, and oti this trip!
had 1C7 In the cabin and 9 In the steer-1
age.
, Among the passengers were the Count
V. D'Arnot oe Saint Saud. Fren h M ni '
ter to the Donilnlca-i Heimlillr : .Mrs 11.
i A. Hrlekoll. Ml-s I-.. ''. Cusserlnl. Mi's
Catherine Klger. J'.iti I.einolne, Mrs.
Itampon at .1 J ilet, p Wurs.'li.
Ti.o I'lil.-.iKo s o ll,l.7 tons, in i . mi
ni. md t Cap'. Mare. With ihe Kocharn-
' beau an 1 L.if,i !t" of the same Un", sho
has done an lmpoi '.ntit volume of burl-1
( in ss betnun the I'nlted Stun s ar.d
Piano s'.n.e ti e vei," h.yar Sho v is
built in 1 '.'
NEW CARSO DRIVE NEAR
- - -
I (hI In n Vrtlll. r unit llnldliitt Pur-
,
tie. tellve III (.orlts. Ileulon.
LoNts.v. Oct. 27 More s gi.s Ind.. nte
that sooi. iher.i w.ll Ii. an.itb'-r Ital. an
att.i, k on tin- Carso tdateau and In tlie ,
(iontz rig.on. Italian raid r.g put,,
artillery and mine thmwrrs an active,
"sotnetltr.es vv.th great violence,'' accord
ing to tin Austrian statement
Tin Italian statement which bears
this out follo.vs :
In the Lir.irln.i Valby the accurate
fire of one of our balli ties destrn.ied
the site of the eticmv In idipiatters
and some stoics at Isera, west of
ltovrri to.
:i th" Juliin front th" .nerpy'i
p. till, "y has I'are.ise.l Its ac'ivitv
f-om Vertnililr. i t tl.n ..!. mtr bat
tel es replied with i nci and cnu"d
th- ixplo-loo of tw.i arnnuinitloi de
pots in tin A t-tii.i'i lm-
In the on mi 'lie a raiding party
er.ti '"! in i tl.n'll where a
'.e.lVV ...l.hre tle'tch nior'ar vvs . ,l
t mil
U-BOAT TAKES SHIP'S CAPTAIN.
Then Sinks III, Odd Ton It ov.no more
evv .Naval Poll,, I seil. 1
l.oMios-, Oct 2T --The Htltlsh steam
ship llowaiimoii' was sunk by a Human
submarine. The captain was taken n
prisoiirr on nnaio un suomat llu Heroin
tlie steamer was toip, donl, ac. Hiding to
, n-emt., i of the crew, all of whom lauded
' safely at Hantry. Ireland. to-d.i.
nn is tin. Ilist victim, so far as Is
I know n. of I 1" n ail nf llerm.-iiiv
nn-
i"'iiti' rl 111 a w ii ells r.espatih frmn
uriili. xv lit' H said that a Heiniau of
tlir.il note ant, .oiiii i - ih it tin naval nn
th'iiittt s have d" idi'd to ri'garil as pi is.
I'ilet.- all cnitiitns of uienii.int vessels
i.ipttired frmn tin Htl'ith. French, Kus-
slims and Italians, nlliglng that these
' i-amalns recelie Insti uctlo'ls fr run theli
i rovcrmueuts lo early on csiilonage.
.
The Hnwanmore. of in,120 tons gross
tcglster. wns built for the Johnston line
for Gulf and South Atlantic cotton
catrylng trad". Pint of th" caigo. ac
lording to Insurance under w riters beie,
was '.i.i'.OO bales of cotton loaded at Hal
lltuote, valued at about l7SO.00n. Most
of Ihe Insurance Is carried by American
, underwriters
DUTCH IN PROTEST TO BERLIN.
Zeppelin Dropprtl lloioh 'JVi lilies
Prom Itollerilnin on Oct. -'J.
I.oviion-, Oct 27 The Dutch (Intern
ment bis protested to Herlln ng linst the
tiolitlo! of neutrality by a Zeppelin las
week, says a Heiltet desp.itcli from the
Hague
A despatch from Amsterdam uiiiHr
date of October 2.1 said tint on Octoln r
22 a Zeppelin had dropped a bnnib near
(iorl.iim. iwetity-two m.lits southeast if
llolteid.'im, and that Dutch newspajiers
weie Itidlgnant over the n ported ait.
(irriuiiiiy liars Iron tn Norivny.
Amntiu'.dvm, via London, Oct 27 As
,i measure of reptis.il against Norway,
siys the .Ylcinrc f.'ofti iiluiasci,' Con.
niiif, Hetmany has untitled Dutch firms
that the must not use Heiman iron
for tep.iliiiis Noiwtg.an Vesi-els, Fn
j,s they comply they will be deprived
of further supplies fiom (irrmuiiy,
BEATEN ARMY IN
FULL FLIGHT TO
DANUBE FORTS
i
Russo - jftuniniiian Forces
3Iake No Attempt to
Hold Dobrudja. ' t
MACKKXSKX PUSHES
FOE TOWARD SWAME
Petroprrad Admits Con
tinned Retirement BcforQ
Teuton Onslaught.
AEROPLANES SEXT
BY FRANCE TO AID
2l .Machines. Badly Needed
hy Ferdinand's Troops,
Reach Bucharest.
I.ondok, Oct. 17. Tho Husso-ItU
tnanlan army In the Dobrudja Is stilt
In full retreat northward, pursued hy
Von Mnrkensen'H tirmy
toward the
O-nubo niarsltcM.
The i:iisljn Wir Oillce ndmlts to-
,Uv that the Ilcoltur nrmv has given un
,,.
,b iitii., rviriii.i -inr niii.r. euu.i, J .
the mnr-.cs nnd twenty-five miles
r.orth of the Constauza-Cern.vola line.
The Hulg.irl.in War Oillce snys tho
I'.US'o-nuni.inl.iti forces are rctreatlnff
ttwa.-il tho fortress line on tho Panubtr.
According to Herl.'n. the main G-man
attack of Von F.ilkenhayn In the Tran-
j
I
,f).vrinl.in Alps south of KronV.adt has
', made more pn s'r., This Is admitted
' by Hucharest. Herlln also announces
tint more progress has been mado
toAard Klmpolung, the starting point of
. 1 railroad tlut runs to llucharest, and at
1 Vulcan Pass.
Itnmnnlniis Mnke I'rourrsa.
In the C.trjutlilins the Itumanlans
we-e- ur..'l.le t i d.i rrore than make a
Hiibl irn defence, except on the notth
w. -t. in frontier "f Itumatila Here.
I'i .ii;rid atif -in vs. the ltumrinlnn
b-iv.. -injured the village of Hilati and
'In- li iTaroir 'il hi ights, we-' of Tergu
'cna. Tin- Hum it ,a-.s .mnource that
'hi- in! .Hich c(.:,t.r.,if h n,d they hav
iv.pMnd one "ttl .r an l eighty-two men
nnd or. mac' n.- vi".
Ae-.ii.llig to . 1. -i ifh .'Mm Hucha
i.st to tin V.':. -s i , lJ? French
iiero-hit-.,- ! ie 1 1 1 1 the.e f.ir ic on
t'lii'.ir e w..rl; I eie F-gl'sh aero
p. ii.es air.ved at Hi.-hn-es. vestcrdny,
. ..vug rlown i. h.in Svo i e. from
t-... lirsel; island of linbros. Tile Hu-
lo-m'an def -ice h is betn greitly harn-
pe.vJ by poor aviation strvl. e.
, ,,,11,.;.,! f. ,. , v,, ,.,., 1n(,
, lliicliatest ale to the effect tliut the Ittis-
: s:.i. is ard llum-.i a-s in tho Dohmdja
have abandoned ", strung defers ve lino
in their headlong rem it The Hlrsovn-.-'.is.iil;eul
line. wh:. '. Ilusr. i admits
h iv.ng cva.-ui'ed and which Herlhi nn
i.oun. i s Von M icki't'.scii has t cached,
cioss.'h tin DihrudJ.i from th" Danube
to the H'ri 1: Sea t wen! -live mie north
(f tin i.ipttiieil i onstanzi-Cernavoda
line Ill-sova is f irt'tbd, md the Hlver
Carta! and Lake Siuoc form natural
lU fi IK'cs.
Pnlllnir Hack nn Port.
! Tn-dav's llnlgar'.in "tate'tiei.t says
j Ihe '-etie.it vvi'i '. sl"p in ii! Ihe for
tress line of Mien, Hi.i.l.i. Cui.-itf nnd
I TnKv.i i. rr.i. ln d
Two if t ewe foi
al.itz, nr.. hi wever,
... nf the li-muhe
I" ViM oiillcult,
Is encumbered with
U" is, in.i'i.i an.-,
nil til" 11" I 111"!'!, s
A crossing wni' .
i-l c alii- it the -fir
1 i aw nuns nnd
tl
nst'urt. A pi ssihlo
I. no huMv ml - s.,iith of the Huuibe
loop w mild run fr.iu i-:io. to It ihadagli
ci l.aU" l.aseini, .ii.i in oi.', twenty
tin ii. Ik s hour aid c-.e to h Id.
In tin Trsnsvlvai.ln i Alps Von Fmlken
b.iMi 'm tlKhl.tig t iov it Azuca. the in-
tianci to the s- I 'f two tunnels that
. ill t'.-O'iL-h the m. mi t.ilrs In tlie
I 're I nl Pass, leading t .i th. Hum. ml. in
plain, lie Is only seven miles fiom Slnnla,
t, Hum ml in summer
i palace built bv K'g
rapn.ii. with a
l-'i 1 1 1 1 n.i n 1 1. and
. onlv twenty-llve miles from Campln.i.
let litre of the gieat llumanian petroleum
Indiistty.
Though Von F.ilki nhayn's main f
foil In nimed at fur.it g bis way through
the l'rrde.il Pass lu .niso of Its excel
lent rillio.nl and .ts proxlinlly to
llu haieit, his ntta. through the Vul-
an Pass and tlie valley of the Jlu,
s.mtli of Petiosetiy, is gaining ground,
Hermans Xenr llnllliend.
No r.i'lroail l itis thrmigh the pass,
but In Is near tlm r.n'he.id nt Tlrgu Jlu.
An .idv.iiKi' mill' i fii'tbcr south through
the .lm V.ille) would force Hen. Cvand.i,
'omiuanding the llumanian atmy thit
s'.'l holds Orsova. at the Iron dates of
Ihi Danube, to withdraw or bo taken In
ihe rear. Thus the last P.umaiu in army
would be fo'vn! from Transylvania,
The Itiimanian offensive on the Mol
davian fioutler serins to be of valuo
mainly because i' makes safe the rail
' 1 1 in ' 1 1 tl n I en t lo 1 1 s with Puss. a behind thp
Caipa'hlans It would take an ndvanctj
far more fotmld.ih!" rliati the Rumanian
u. em aldo tn mnl-e to draw forces of any
strength from Von F.ilke nlinyn's main
army attacking tin I'redeal Pass
To-day's Herman statement says:
Transylvanlao Front Ilost'le ad
xnncis on the cistern frontier of
Transylvania were ripulstd.
South ot Predeal and in the direc
tion of Klmpolung out- attack has
made progress.
Hall. an Theatre -Army Hroup of
Field M.iishal top Miickensen Fur.
suit of the defeat! d Dobrudja army
inutilities. Criitra! allied troopo havs
n ached th" district of Hirsova.
Tin llillgnr Hrport.
A delayed Hiilgarlan stalcinent saysj
Along the lllack Sea there was quiet.
On the whole Dobrudja front the en,
my Is In precipitate ret I eat toward
Tultcha, llralla and Hlrsovn Our pur
suit continues. On Wednesday vva
captured .13 olllccrs, 771 men and IS
