T - V ' - .. . , .. _ . . ^ ^ ,.... .......- ... . ... * , . ..
\
* " . t ,
WEATHER. || ^t!/k 01Y "From Press to Home
Fair, warmer tonight. Tomorrow, f I I a a M X ^ a -a a a . a - a. ^ A . ? J \Pl) i
fair; gentle shifting winds. MWM I AIM VIXH ?,. ,. , wj ,,
Temperature for twenty-four hours fl A V ^ V W T I |. H | H .1 | \ l'A\i Within the tlOWT
ending; 2 p.m.: Highest, 64. at p.m. I . B r* B B B B B B ai . IBBfa. ???????
yesterday; lowest. 7 a.m. today. | / j B | f ~ III HI I * I I I I W / ^ B K ' | |
Full report on page 1
??????????? I y .1 | - Iwwi Het CTreeletto*. Month of gepteoihei.
MIS, Dolly Average, TiMi Saaday, IMOL
.i?* "' *' \ . -
No. 29,485. WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. ONE CENT.
. ? : ' i : i =====
HIRSOVA OCCUPIED
BY VON MACKENSEN
10 WING ON
Meets But Little Resistance in
Sweeping Offensive Through
the Dobrudja.
GERMANS ARE INVADING
RUMANIA FROM NORTH
Von Falkenhayn Said to Have
Beached Campulung, Eighty
Miles From Bucharest.
By the Anodated Press.
LONDON, October 28.?The Teutonic
drive against Rumania continues with
little diminished velocity, new suc4
cesses for both Field Marshal von
Maclcensen and Gen. von Falkenhayn
being announced. Hirsova, on the Danube,
has been occupied by the Bulgarians.
According to unofficial reports from
Petrograd. a notable advance has been
made by ther\Austro-German forces ln^
vading Rumania frolh the north. Gen.
von Falkenhayn's forces are now Bald
to have reached Campulung, twenty
miles south of the Rumanian frontier.
Fron\ Campulung the plain stretches
away toward Bucharest, elgffty miles
distant.
Height Also Captured.
Today's German official statement
does not confirm the capture of Cam- (
pulung, announcing the situation on
this front virtually unchanged, except '
that the Austro-German forces have
taken a height south of Kronstadt from
the Rumanians and advanced thence to
the -Partsuga valley.
On the Moldavian frontier of Rumania,
where a more successful stand had
been made against the Teutonic allies,
the Russo-Rumanlan defense appears
to be weakening. Petrograd reports a
strong offensive by Austro-German
forces in the Dorna-Watra region near,
the Bnkowlna line, where violent attacks
have compelled the Russian advanced
posts to fall back, abandoning
two heights. Berlin reports the cap
ture of several heights in this sector
by the Austrian troops of Archduke
Charles Francis.
Russians to Lend Aid.
Supposedly In an effort to aid the ^
h^pd-pressed Rumanians the Russians
* are reported to be on the eve of a
great' offensive tn Gallda and Poland.
This report comes to Rome from German
sources, says a wireless dispatch
tram the Italian capital.
Rumanian military officials state that
the losses of the Austro-Germans In ]
' Transylvania have reaohed a total of
S0.?0?.
* Austro-German attacks in the Tulghes
and Bicaz regions and in the Trot us
valley were repulsed, while in the Uzal
valley the Rumanian advance-is continuing,
according to Bucharest. '
Heavy losses were sustained by the
Teutonic troops, which vainly attacked ,
in the region of Dragosiavele, says .
Bucharest, which also chronicles the
continuation ui ijit. ubuuub >u juo ? .?
deal region and announces a withdrawal
of the defensive forces toward the
southern Transylvanlan frontier In the
Jiul valley.
Allied Aeros to Assist.
Ohe hundred and twenty-eight French
aeroplanes have arrived in Romania
for reconnaissance work on the Tran4
sylvania and Dobrudja fronts, says a
dispatch from Bucharest to the Wireless
Press. Four English aeroplanes
arrived at the Rumanian capital yesterday
from Imbros, an island of the
Grecian archipelago.
Flying from the Island of Imbros
'' across central Bulgaria to Bucharest In
a straight line, the English machines
traveled a distance of about 390 miles.
Find Little Resistance.
The Berlin statement regarding Rumanian
operations says:
"Field Marshal von Mackensen's front
?In northern Dobrudja our pursuing
detachments so tar have found bnt little
resistance. Everything indicates
that the enemy is retreating in haste.
Five hundred isolated soldiers were
taken prisoner and several munition
columns and baggage were captured.
"Macedonian front?Serbian attacks
against the German and Bulgarian
positions In the Cerna bend failed, as
did partial advances of the enemy on
the east slopes of the Moglenlca mountains
and southwest of Dolran lake.
"On the Struma river there were
skirmishes of patrols near Orfano, and
a lively artillery bombardment.
Capture Several Heights.
"Front of Archduke Charles Francis?
On both sides of Dorna Watra. Aus
f trim-Hungarian troops entered Russian
positions, captured several heights
at the point of the bayonet and
brought in eight officers and more than
(00 men as prisoners.
"Transylvania eastern front?
Fighting in the frontier valleys con*
tinues. South of Kronstadt our allied
' troops took a Rumanian position on &
height by a surprise attack, and extended
their success by sharp pressure
to the valley of Partxuga. Otherwise
the situation is not essentially
changed."
CHEONIC GERM CARRIERS.
Thirty-Five Persons Listed as Distributers
of Typhoid.
NEW YORK, October 28.?As a result
Of nearly two years' work the bureau
of preventable diseases of the health
department has completed a list of
thirty-five cases of typhoid carriers
and a report of what is being done to
prevent such carriers from spreading
the disease. Prior to 1915 the department
knew of some half dozen carriers
In the city. Including the well known
"Typhoid Mary." Systematic work
since then has resulted In the discovery
of other cases It Is estimated that
itl some communities one person in
t every thousand is a chronic carrier.
The typhoid carriers listed by "the
bureau include persons ranging in age
from tan years to more than sixty.
Nine were handlers of food by occupation,
and they have been compelled to
find other ocoopatlOM^. i.? *..._
NEW GAIN IS MADE
BY FRENCH FORCES
Capture Quarry Near Fort
Douaumont in Verdun Region,
According to Paris.
\
BERLIN CLAIMS1 SUCCESSES
By ths Associated Press.
LONDON, October 28. ? The French
are pressing their new offensive In the
Verdun region, and, according to Paris,
have captured in the hand grenade at
tacK tne quarry nortneast 01 rori
Douaumont. Berlin declares several
French attacks yesterday in the Douaumont
region and elsewhere along the
line of the new French advance were
sanguinarily repulsed.
On the east bank of the River Meuse,
north of Verdun, there were renewed
heavy engagements, which were successful
for the Germans, according to
the German headquarters. French
forces attacked from Thiaumont wood
and on both sides of Fort Douaumont
and in the Fumin wood. All the attacks
are said to have been broken
down in front of the German positions
with heavy losses to the French,
Germans Repulse Attacks.
On the Somme front Berlin announces
the repulse of strong attacks by both
the British and French yesterday in
the Gueudecourt-Lesboeufs and Morval
regions north of the Somme.
"Yesterday German aeroplanes showed
an unusual activity. Aerial engagement
s took place between large numbers
of machines on both sides. It is
reported that five machines fell during
a fight, two of which were British. On
another occasion a British pilot, encountering
a formation of ten German
machines, attacked them single handed
and dispersed them far behind their
own lines."
German Forces Darge.
Information gathered from the general
staff is to the effect that the re
cent victory of the French at Verdun
was in no way due to the numerical
Inferiority of the Germans, who were
surprised by the rapid offensive. The
French attack was carried out by three
divisions, which had opposed to them
troops belonging to seven different divisions,
which, it is stated, were ample
for effective resistance. Battalions
from nineteen regiments have been
Identified in the first line from the
Uleuse to Grimaucourt - en - Woevre.
\mong the prisoners taken are ten German
battalion commanders.
I/ON KOTO IS HUE ,
PREMIER OF AUSTRIA
Has Undertaken Formation of Sew :
Cabinet, According to Vienna
Kewspaperi.
By the Associated Frees.
LONDON, October 28.?The Vienna
newspapers announce that Dr. von
ICoerber, former Austrian prime mlnis:er,
has been appointed premier in succession
to Count Karl Stuergkh, says a
Eteuter dispatch from Amsterdam. He
has undertaken th6~ formation of a new
cabinet.
Confers With Emperor.
VIENNA, October 26, via London, October
2S (Delayed).?It may be accepted
h* certain that Dr. von Koerher, now
rVustro-Hungarlan minister of finance,
will succeed the late Count Karl
Stuergkh as premier. Dr. von Koerber
was received yesterday by the emperor
>i,nd went today to Budapest to confer
with Count Tisza. It is understood that
Dr. von Koerber is willing to accept
the position, but official announcement
to that effect has been delayed thus
lar ucuauoc ue ucuiauun ^uaraiuecB
that his hands shall remain untied.
Should Dr. von Koerber finally accept,
bis successor in the financial ministry
probably will be Dr. von Spitzmueller,
now minister of commerce. Both men
came into power last spring:, when a
general change in the cabinet took
place, being selected for efficiency
which he had demonstrated while in
minor official positions.
Favor Parliament So?Ion.
A slight change In the attitude and
policies of the different parties regarding
the convening of parliament I# reported.
Conferences of leaders of these
parties Just concluded show that nearly
all the political leaders in the lower
house now favor a parliamentary session
under the condition that the house
confine itself to urgent matters and
refrain from criticisms based upon political
interests. The sense of the
meeting was that while some governmental
departments might have their
their affairs aired the speakers discussing
them were to bear in mind only
the public good and not the hopes or
wishes of political groups. There were
a few, however, who still asserted that
a parliamentary session was unneccessary.
Meanwhile, the house of lords with a
few exceptions, continues to be opposed
to proposed session of parliament.
Mr*. Madero 011 Way to Mexico.
LAREDO, Tex., October 28.?Mrs. Sarah
P. Madero. wife of the late President
of Mexico, who has been in San
Antonio, several days, has arrived here
on her way to Mexico City.
Fewer Families Sought Belief.
NEW TORK. October 28.?Only 6,014
families applied for relief to the United
Hebrew Charities here lastr year, as
compared with 8.284 In the previous
year. The report of the organisation
shows, however, that those who needed
relief suffered greater distress than
usual on account of the Increase in the
cost of living. The report says that the
cost of food alone to the average family
has risen 20 per cent In the last two
years.
Save Today's Paper
for the School
Children's Playground *
Fund.
?^ ? -
I. C. C. FEELS PINCH
OF COURTAGE
Elevators Stop Running.
Government Departments
Have Scant Supply.
LACK OF CARS A FACTOR
The first pinch of the threatened coal
famine made the Interstate commerce
commission cry "Ouch!"this morning, as
the elevators in the eleven-story commission
building had to stop running
because of a lack of coal to supply
power.
A canvass of the coal situation, as It
relates to the government departments
here, showed that therels but a handto-furnace
supply In about half the departmental
buildings; and a cold snap
probably would stop half the government
activities Just at this moment.
Also, whether a coincidence or not, the ,
Interstate commerce commissioners,
after walking upstairs eleven flights to
their offices, sent out a hurry call for
an Informal conference of shippers,
railroad men and others, in an effort
to jar loose enough coal cars to carry
the waiting piles of anthracite and
bituminous to the frightened consumers.
Long Journey to Top.
The call for a shippers and railroad
men's conference probably would have
been issued, of course, had not the interstate
commerce commission building
gone shy on coal today, but the thousands
of clerks and the scores of attorneys
and others who visited the building
today will testify to the fact that
it Is a long, tiresome Journey by stairway
from the F street entrance of the
building to the eleventh floor.
In the office of the chief clerk the
entire blame for the situation was put
on the American National Bank, and in
the American National Bank, which
owns the building, the following explanation
was made by one of the officials:
"The interstate commerce commis->
sion building's coal situation is no different
in general from that of the other
government buildings. There is a
serious coal shortage and dealers have
a hard time delivering their coal. We
have contracts with two dealers and
we will get coal from two sources. It
is unfortunate that, the elevators had
to close down today, but we will have
coal there today."
Situation Unchanged Today.
Coal dealers in the city today said
the situation was exactly the same today
as yesterday, with very little coal
in sight. Some of the biggest dealers,
however, have told their customers
they will be supplied without stint, although
a different grade of coal may
have to be substituted for the kinds
specified in the original contract. i
??-U MJVU vu MVW
Is so grave thst ltor ?fsst t tine no
care are #*ced at our mines for loading,"
said J. Maury Dove Company in
a. letter to customera "Consequently
(or the same period of time no coal is
received by us in Washington. We
therefore feel it our duty to notify all
of our contract customers and others .
that we are endeavoring: to purchase
coal outside of our regular channels of
supply." i
"People who want coal seem to be ,
panic-stricken, and want their entire supply
at once," said Jesse C. guter, secretary
of the Coal Merchants' Association.
"People who have never bought more ]
than a ton at one time now want six
or eight tons. This has greatly complicated
the problem."
\
250 Tons for Departments Due. ,
The contractor who supplies coal to s
the Treasury Department, the bureau 2
of engraving and printing, the War, ]
State and Navy building, and the buildings
comprising the group of the Agri- *
cultural Department has five carloads '
of fifty tons each on the way. To supply
the needs of these buildings, except for
a fast disappearing store, there is no
other coal in sight. i
The bureau of engraving and printing
has only 240 tons on hand. Under the
present weather conditions thirty-five
tons a day is consumed. Fifty tons a
day is the maximum, and a sharp ;
change to cold weather would eat up
the supply within a few days.
The building of the Treasury Department
has boilers that consume hard
coal and boilers that consume soft coal.
A small reserve of buckwheat coal was
nearly exhausted yesterday, when the
contractor found it possible to deliver
100 tons, which will last a little while.
The situation-at the Agricultural Department
is even more serious. There
is a supply sufficient to run only three
or four days. Yesterday there was only
a day's supply ahead, augmented by
the same delivery that helped out the
Treasury Department.
Serious enough, but not so grave, are
the conditions at the Interior Department,
the Commerce Department and
thn T^hor r)pnartm<?nt fiomo of th* hn.
reaus in separate buildings and independent
commissions are in a bad way.
Department Officials Conrer.
The coal shortage and its aspects as
regards the government buildings was
the subject of a conference, yesterday,
between representatives of the various
administrative departments and bureaus.
The conference was for the purpose
of taking inventory of the available
supply and to determine the prospect.
The meeting was held in the office of
Joseph L. Wilmeth, chief clerk of the
Treasury Department. A representative
of the contractor was present to explain
the situation as regards the prospect
of future deliveries. Representative)^
of other departments and bureaus
present were: Assistant Director Frank
E. Ferguson of the bureau of engraving
t^nd printing. Chief Clerks F. S.
Curtis, representing the Navy Department,
State and War Department; R. M.
Reese, Department of Agriculture;
George C. Havenner, Commerce; W. S.
Ayres, Interior; Robert Watson, Dabor.
.Inquiries were addressed to all the
large dealers in the city for prices on
quantities of coal in the event that gov
eminent contractor* were unable to
meet the terms of their agreements.
The response of the dealers was that
there was no coal to be had except a
hundred tons, which one dealer report- .
ed selling to the Treasury Department,
and a carload sold In the open market
to the District government.
"It is Just as well to be frank about
the situation," declared Mr. Wllpieth.
"A serious condition exists. Cold
weather Is coming on, and there is not
enough coal In the city to meet any
considerable part of the demand. The
shortage is occasioned by the scarcity
of railroad cars."
Schools Poorly Supplied. <
Twelve or fifteen public schools are '
reported to have supplies of coal on ^
hand only for three or four days. A j
few deliveries of coal are being mad# 1
today. j
Ernest U Thurston, superintendent of .
schools. Is having a census of the \
<ftl|iuu?t on facqnd Psgu) I
(
GIGANTIC RUSSIAN
DRIVE IN PROSPECT
Attack Heavily West of Lutsk.
~~Uefeatetf ftr Doma
Watra Region.
By the Associated Press. *
LONDON, October 28.?MA telegram
received In Rome from a German
source reports there are Indications of
the beginning of a tremendous new
Russian offensive in Balicia and Poland/'
says a dispatch from the Italian
capital, received by the Wireless Press.
The Russians have renewed their attacks
on the Austro-German lines west
of Lutsk in Volhynia, the war office
announced today, delivering an assault
yesterday after two days' artillery
preparation in the vicinity of Zaturze.
rhe attack, according to the official
statement, failed completely with heavy
losses to the Russians.
Victory for Germans.
Austro-German forces launched a
Beries of violent attacks against the
Russian and Rumanian positions on
both banks of the River Bystritsa, in
the region of Dorna Watra, yesterday,
says the official statement, issued today
by the Russian war office, compelling
the Russian advanced posts to abandon
two heights.
Teutonic troops have won a victory
in the Dorna Watra region, near the
junction point of the frontiers of
Bukowina, Transylvania and Rumania,
according to today's war office an
nounceiiiciii. Auairo-nuiigarian iorcca
captured several heights from the Russians
at the point of the bayonet and
took more than 500 prisoners.
TO SAFEGUARD FLOUR PRICE.
Millers Discuss Plan to Meet Any
Exigency at War Close.
CHICAGO. October 28.?At the semiannual
meeting of the Millers' National
Federation here yesterday discussions
centered on a suggestion that
at the close of the war a "law be passed
permitting the exportation of flour in
amounts equal to the wheat imported.
No such problem exists at present,
but, according to F. H. Price, export
agent of the federation, the members
fear that at the close of hostilities an
embargo may be placed on flour because
of increased home consumption,
thus Jeopardizing the stability of
prices.
"An embargo on flour would, of
course, indicate a situation where
wheat would have to be imported,"
explained Mr. Price. "To keep up the
price of flour we ought, in such a contingency,
to be allowed to export the
flour equivalent of the imported wheat.
Non-exporting millers also would
benefit.
Fairbanks to Close Tour Tonight.
LOUISVILLE, Ky.? October 28.?En* j
terlng upon the second day of his tour
of western Kentucky, Charles Warren
Fairbanks, republican nominee for the I
vice presidency, was scheduled to make |
twenty addresses. Including three extended
speeches. Mr. Fairbanks made
twenty-two addresses In western Kentucky
yesterday, covering a different
route from that provided by today's
itinerary. He will close hie tour tonight
at Henderson.
Joseph W. Ogden Dead.
NEW YORK, October 28.?Joseph W.
Jgden, well known In financial circles,
'ormerly a director and vice president
>f the New Tork, Susquehanna and
Western railroad, a director of several
arse manufacturing concerns and a
ormer vice president of the National
dorse Show Association, has died here,
dr. Ogden was about seventy years old
md made his home la Morrlstown. N. J.,
shore he.. bred many prise winning
loroea. . .j 4,.. j ,.t-* i*.i ?? ?*?
. '
** J*
BRITAIN UPHOLDS RIGHT
TO MAINTAIN BLACK LIST
But Offers Methods of Belief to
American Bums in Beply to
This Country's Mote.
Great Britain's note in reply to
American representations against the
commercial black list was received today
at the State Department. Arrangements
regarding Its publication will be
made later. It- Is understood to reiterate
the contention for the right to
blacklist, but offers methods of relief
to Americans in certain circumstances.
The British note is in reply to the
American note &f July 28 which denounced
the black list as "an arbitrary
interference with neutral trade" and
"inconsistent with that true justice,
sincere amity and impartial fairness
which should characterize the dealings
of friendly governments with one another."
The names of some American firms
already have been taken from the
black list, and the British note is understood
to offer means of removing
others.
Right to Regulate Own Trade.
The British note is understood to
take the line of argument It is unprecedented
for a neutral to claim that a ,
belligerent should in effect compel its
subjects to trade with the enemy, and
that it violates no law for the British
government to prevent its subjects from
doing so. While the British government
admits the rights of all persons
in neutral countries to engage in legitimate
commercial transactions, it argues
that such a right does not limit
the right of other governments to restrict
the activities of their own nationals.
The point at issue in the controversy
is whether the nationality or the domicile
of the owner of goods gives character
as neutral or belligerent. Previously
Oreat Britain and the United
States have agreed that domicile was
decisive regardless of nationality. The
continental European position has been
that nationality was decisive. In the
previous negotiations over the black
list Oreat Britain took a position between
the two theories.
The subject probably will be carried
on in further diplomatic correspond
ence.
NEW DIMES IN CIRCULATION.
$180,000 Distributed to Banks by
Philadelphia Mint.
PHILADELPHIA, October 28.?The
new tea-cent pleoee, which have been
coined in large quantities at the Philadelphia
mint, were put Into circulation
today for the first time, about 8180,000
worth being distributed to banks and
trust companies. They will be Introduced
simultaneously in the western
states from the Denver mint.
The obverse side of the new dime
shows a head of Liberty In profile,
while the reverse side shows a bundle
of rods In the center and the protruding
battle ax, symbols of unity. Surrounding
the central design Is an olive
wreath, denoting peace.
The new coins are expeoted to be In
general circulation within a few days.
BEADT FOB ACCEPTANCE S0QN.
Spanish Submarine Said .to Have
Met All Contract Acquirements.
QUINCY. Mass.. October 28.?The
Spanish submarine Isaac Feral, which
was constructed here, has fulfllled
every contract requirement, according
to word received by her builders, the
Pore River Shipbuilding^ Corporation.
VU * ?V? 1UVVI.U " ?? <-?v ouuiuai IIIC nnill
under water to a depth below the stipulated
ISO feet. It waa stated. Speed on
the surface waa said to exceed IE .
knots, and more than 10% knots sub- '
merged.
With her trials completed the Isaac
Perai Is now going through a training
period'to allow -Mr Spanish crew to
become thoroughly accustomed to the
vessel. It IS'Sxpeoted she will be ready
for acceptance about November.
' S
ppjl
BOMB KILLS PIL01
OF KAISER'S TRAIN
German Emperor Has Narrow
EscapeTrom an Allied
Flier.
PARIS, October 28.?A bomb dropped
by an aviator of the entente allies has
killed the engineer driving the train
of Emperor William of Germany, according
to information received at
Zurich, Switzerland.
Emperor William recently was reported
to be at Bapaume, on the Somme
front, personally overseeing the preliminaries
for a* counter offensive, for
which the German troops were said to
have received strong reinforcements.
During this visit he Is said to have
delivered a brief speech to the German
troops, thanking them for the "heroic
manner" in which they had fought for
four months.
On Monday last the emperor was in
Berlin on a brief visit, conferred with
the imperial chancellor and visited the
palace at Potsdam. His movements
since then have not been reported.
S
TOMORROW
"WASHINGTON IS TAKING LEAD IN
PRISON REFORM WORK"?The
capital is preparing to bnild reformatory
for lonff-term prisoners and
to handle them under modified-form
of the "honor system."
"WHAT HATH YON GOT!" a thrlllinr
story of Ae sea, by JOHN FLEMING
WILSON.
"ONE YEAR OF ARMY SERVICE FOR
GERMAN WOMEN!"?Shall the
help the state la "war ?
"WHY YOU PAY $8 FOR A THEATER
SEAT," an enlightening article, by
HIRAM KELLY MODERWELL.
"WASHINGTON WOMAN HAS SERVED
OVER FIFTY YEARS IN A GOVERNMENT
BUREAU."
"YOU CAN'T KILL THESE PEOPLE"
?A two-page spread of photographs 1
of men and women who have had
remarkable escapes from death.
"FUEL FOR THE FLEET"?Where the I
navy gets its ooal and how it is
shipped from the mines to the sea.
I
"THE TRIFLER8," another installment
of this fascinating serial, by
Frederick Orin Bartlett.
"THE RAMBLER FINDS THE LINE
OF 1864 ATTACK ON THE CAPITAL."
"WANTED?ONE HUNDRED GIRLS
WITH SPANISH EYES," by PAUL
HENRY DOWLING. <
"ENGLAND'S TRADE BANK AND INDUSTRIAL
ORGANIZATION," by
CHARLES M. PEPPER. j
"YOU CAN'T GET ANYWHERE UNLESS
YOU SAVE MONEY," by ALBERT
W. ATWOOD.
"GOLD AND 8ILVER CLOTH AND
COLORED METAL TISSUES," an
fet?frT&S8^"ttoU' *
"SPKAXINO OF THE THEATER," by
BRUCE BABTO*.
"binding valuable books for
the library or ooboress." 1
"GREAT STAHFEPE TO ALASKA
expected wkeh uncle sax's i
railway from minino caxps
to the coast 18 completed," i
I . ? ?%r-xr a /lidbevmrn
"&CTEWB or BOOKS OF EABLT '
FALl " , ,
"THE OIABTOtAKEB/' and "THINK
{g^SSsSf*1* * "Bnr
xkx
SUNDAY STAR
> -4 _ . 1 , ^ ,
CAMPAIGN NOW AT i
BITTERNESS STAGE
Friends Are Alienated and I
Families Divided as Election
Day. Approaches.
MR. PERKINS IS INDIGNANT 1
BY N. 0. MESSENGER. 1
NEW YORK, October 28.?Republican j
leaders are confident that the swing ^
back to Hugrhes is saining: momentum. ^
Democratic manag-ers say that it is too ^
ittlc miu mal. auguco v?Miiiwv uf< j
As the election date draws near the (
campaigm increases in bitterness. (
This fact is noticeable everywhere ,
about town. Discussions are heated and |
men take partisan sides violently.
President Wilson's supporters advo- .
cate his cause with passion, Indicating' ,
a deep personal regard. The Hughes J
men are scornful of the democratic
party and its candidate, and spare no 1
words in their denunciation. Friends
become alienated, families are divided
and fights are frequent. Observers of j
many past political contests say that
this is the most heated and bitter
struggle they can recall since the
memorable Blaine campaign.
Charge Misrepresentation.
The republican managers, while ad- '
mitting the undeniable personal popularity
of President Wilson, base their
confidence of victory upon the claim j
that the democratic propaganda is not ^
founded on fact and that the American
people will recognize It and re- ^
buke it. George W. Perkins voices f
the republican sentiment In a letter / j
written to Chairman McCormick of the\ (
democratic national committee. He ^
wrote as follows:
"You are conducting the democratic j
campaign from behind a shield in front ]
of your office from which is displayed ,
the slogan, 'peace, preparedness, pros- ]
perity,' and above this shield are draped
American flags. The campaign you are
thus conducting is one of down- (
right deception and a man of'your in- (
telligence must know that it is de- j
ception?that it is misleading.
"This country is not at peace; it has
not been kept out of war. There has ]
been no preparedness, and our pros- ,
perity is wholly due to the war in 1
Europe and not at all due to anything
that the democratic party has cham- }
pioned or accomplished. "The
issue of this campaign at the
moment is 'C&n Wilson get away with (
it? Can he get a sufficient number of j
voters to believe in your campaign of
misrepresentation and deception?* If
so, he can be elected; if not, he cannot.
Thinks Voters Are Awake.
"Personally, I have too much respect
for the voters of this country to believe
that your candidate can get away
with it. I am confident that your appeal
to the yellow streak in American
citizenship will fail, and fall ignominlously,
as it ought to.
"It is enough to make the blood of
any patriotic American citizen boil to
walk down 42d street and see the
American flag flung to the breezes from
every window in your office. You people
are mighty prompt to display and
wave the American flag, but you are
mighty tardy in defending and protecting
it/*
The democrats pay no attention to
these taunts, but rest content with assurance
that the country believes in
President Wilson, that it credits him
with having prevented war, and that
there is the undisputed certainty of
prosperous conditions.
OLD-TIME CHOIR BOOH.
Copy of 1576 Edition Offered to
Newberry Library, Chicago.
CHICAGO, October 28.?A oopy of
wh&.t i? said to be the first choir book
ever printed on this continent has been
offered to the Newberry Library of
Chicago by the Most Rev. Francisco
Plancarte, Archbishop of Monterey,
Mexico, an exile here, it was announced
today. The book, published in 1576, is
one of the four in existence, the other
copies being in London. Berlin and
Mexico.
The book Is remarkably well printed.
The cover is of wood, incased in tough
pigskin. The publisher and date on
the first page are Pedro Ochartev 1576.
ino ($rauua.iao aoimiucaie ~?mo t
name of the book?was found among
the ruins of an Indian church In 1913,
after its destruction by the Mexicans c
in their attack on the Zapatistaa The s
Indians presented it to Archbishop t
Plancarte. Later it was overlooked by
a Carranza force when the private x
library of the archbishop was de- r
stroyed. 8
* a
I Sergt. Xastner, JJ. S. M. C., a Suicide )
SHEBOYGAN. Wis., October 28? r
| Sergt. August Kastner of the United b
States Marine Corps was not killed in r
I a recent light in Santo Domingo, as i
was reported in a message received ?
Wednesday by his relatives here, but J
committed suicide, according to a tele- b
gram received from the War Depart- c
ment. ? *
w c
* F
Howard Elliott Heads Alumni. ?
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., October"28.?The o
election of Howard-Elliott, president of J
the Mew York, New Haven and Hart- t
ford railroad, as president of the Har- g
vard Alumni Association, is announced.
William C. Boyden of Chicago and William
Hooper of Manchester, Mass., were 'jj
chosen vice presidents; R. Hi Gardiner, "*
jr.,- of Gardiner, Me., treasurer, and
Roger Pierce of Milton, general secre- 11
tarx- I
1 a
Price, of- Natural Gas Advanced, ?
BAST LIVERPOOL, Ohtft, October 28. w
?Pottery manufacturers in this city J
and in 'the West Virginia towns on the j,
south side of the Ohio river have been w
notinea oy me jnanuiacturers- i^ignt 41
and Heat Company, controlling the fuel
gas system of this entire section, that
the price will be advanced 1 cent per ei
thousand cubic feet. It is expected the
new rate will become operative Decernber
L ______
* tl
Coke Statistician Dies. ?'
CONNELLSVILLE. Pa., October 28.?
Henry Provanoe Snyder, publisher of
the Connellavllle Courier and widely pa
known throughout the country as the w
statistician of the coke Industry, haa tv
died here after an Illness extendlak "
through several yeary. He was afty *
years.eld. '? ?
.... .. iaaia
AGRESSION'S DAY
IS DONEJtE SAYS
'resident Makes "Co-Operation"
the Theme of His "Wilson
Day" Speech.
VISITED BY NEW YORKERS
Ij On UllUltH tM
LONG BRANCH. N. J, October Rliaking
his motto "Oo-operatlon,"
President Wilson spoke her* today at
Lhe principal meeting of a series of
Catherines in many states arraneed bT
lhe democratlo national oonunlttea la
selebratlon of "Wilson day." The oc:a?ion
was also known as "ISmptr*
3i*w uny nero dccaubq uejegiiiooi 01
organization democrats, Independents,
progressives and women from New
fork Journeyed on special trains from
Mew York city and state to greet the
President and assure him of their support.
. ;?$!
The President spoke for woman suffrage.
declared that "American law has
not kept pace with American sentiment,"
and that "what was legal has
begun to play a more important part
In our thoughts and determinations
than what fs human and right." outlined
the legislative achievements of
his administration and sketched broadly
a program for the future, including
the making of "courts of Justice out of
our courts of law" and the establishment
of permanent peace.
Many From Tammany Hall.
With bands playing and banners waving
several thousand democrats came
from New York to hear the President.
Several special trains brought the
Mew York democrats to the President's
summer home. Two of them carried a
t>ig delegation from Tammany Hall,
)ne accommodated representatives of
:he Bronx democracy, and a fourth the
Brooklyn contingent. The Tammany
craves were led by Grand Sachem John
R. Voorhis. Mr. Voorhis is eighty-six
rears old. Delegations from neighboring
counties also made the journey.
After the pilgrims return to New
i'ork city from Shadow Lawn upward
of 100 meetings will be held throughout
the city. At each of these will be
read the address delivered by President
Wilson earlier in the day.
The President returned hera last
night from his trip to Cincinnati,
which marked his last appearanoa in
the middle west before the election. He
arrived here at 9:45 o'clock and
motored directly to Shadow Lawn.
The President's speeches between
now and the ?lection will ba devoted
chiefly to efforts to carry New York
ind his home state of New Jersey.
Mr. Wilson's address was delivered
to the largest gathering yet assembled
at Shadow Lawn to hear his Saturday
afternoon campaign speeches.
President Wilson's Address.
The President's address follows:
"My Fellow-citizens:
"This Is called 'Wilson day* only because
for six years, first as Governor of
tfe^r Jersey, and then as President of
the United States, I have been permitted
to lead first a great state and then
i gTeat national party along the ways
of progress and of enlarged and re-k
generated life which our people had.
so long sought and so long been held
Pack from by the organized power of
selfish interest, and because the% great
lonor has fallen to me of being chosen
once more spokesman and representative
of the men who mean to' hold the
country to these ways of peace, humanity
and progress. It is of these
forces that I shall speak and not of
myself, who am merely their servant.
"What are these forces? Whence do
they spring? What have they accomplished,
and what is their program and
purpose for the future? It is plain
ivhat they are. They are the forces of
humane, righteous and patriotic purpose
which have sprung up in our day
in the minds of those who percelva the
shortcomings of the law as it has
hardened in America, and who look
forward with purpose and conviction
to a new age in which government
shall be Indeed the servant of liberty
and not of privilege. These are men
who perceive that American law has
not kept pace with American sentiment:
that our law has been holding
is rigid and immovable, until class has
oegun, in free America, to be arrayed
igainst class; until what was legal has
oegun to play a more important part in
>ur thoughts and determinations than
what is human and right; and until
America has begun to lag instead of
ead in reconciling what is with what
>ught to be.
Says New Age Dawned.
"A new acre had dawned upon us while
hose who were attempting- to lead us
rare stumbling along with their heads '
>ver their shoulders, intent upon prelerving
the conditions of a day that is
rone. America had changed and the
vhole world had changed. Our comnerce
and industry had grown to such
i bulk that the domestic markets of
chich our former leaders were always
io solicitous were glutted and we were
pound, unless we were to burst our
acket, to find a free outlet Into the
narkets of the world. The time had
:ome when our commerce needed freelom
and would be throttled by further
estratnts. We had acquired foreign
possessions, had been drawn Into the
politics of the world, bad begun to
lay a part which could not be played
>y provincials, but must be played by
itlzens of the great world of nations,
ind yet we had not altered our policy
?r our point of view. The great European
war has served at least to show
is this one thing?that the world Itself
iad changed; that It had become at
nee too big a world and too little a
rorld to submit its destinies to the
ostlle rivalries and ambitions now of
his and again of that member of the
Teat family of men; too compact, too
ntimate in its contacts, too ^universal
i its ways of intercourse, to make it
ny longer possible to limit the effects
f any nation's action to a single, senrate
sphere where the rest would ofe
ntouched. An Inevitable partnership
f interests has been thrust upon the
ations. They are neighbors and muit
ccommodate their' interests to one anther,
or else disturb the lives and emarrass
the fortunes of men everywhere.
No wonder that In such an ago
ten In America should be cried awake
nd feel once more, as they felt them
i the days when their great republfo
as set up, the compulsions of htfman*
y and of justice!
'"tlU ? ... f.Aak.nl. n. nrlnJ.
X IICOC BID nit llCBIICIUUg ? I 11UO
lowing out of the life of mankind
rerywhere, that have brougrht on a
ew day in American politics. W?
ive looked once more very critically
t our own laws and our own pracces
and have set about to square
lem with the actual conditions ol
ir life and the life of the world.
Compares Strength of Parties.
"Four years ago there were twe
irties In the field whose program
as oonoelved under the Influence etV
tese great foross of progress and
Uuftment, the democratic party sag
is progressive partg. Zfcis xcar,there
