Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 28, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVIL, NO. 102
HORNETS' NEST
ABDUTTHEFARS
i secy, bh;
(Special to The Republican)
XKW YORK, Oct. 27. The follow
ing statement was issued by the re
lubluan national committee at repui)-
: . , . . i
'nacn headquarters here this evening. I
ir.e campaign or numi.ug, pretense
and falsehood which has been waged
ly the Wilson administration and its
I-litH-al managers reached its climax
last tv.ght with the issuance at the U(mi ns "farcical" and "worse than use
war department by Mr. Baker, secre- ,C(ig.. t0 proteot American workmen,
tary of war. of his astounding state- 1 an.j ,hat even if the percentage of ex
ment charging that sjme unnamed port., 0f commodities to supply armies
and unidentified persons were plotting wa3 -mall. it reiuired but very little
a new Mexican outbreak before elec-j "to contract or destroy the prosperity
tion day. for tie purpose of turning of the country."
the tide of sentiment' against Wilso.i. j The nominee addressed an audience
immediately after Issuing this charge, that cheered him repeatedly. He told
Mr. linker left Washington and was them that, as he had been while gov
i"t available for questions concerning ernor of New York, he was now, and
it unt'l today. I should be in the future; that he was
This i9 the same RTker who ten ' willing to stand or fall by what he be
days ;:pn in Jersey C1t- likened the lieved to be right.
heroes of '76 and Valley Forge to the "1: was said in Decern boi. 1914." Mr.
randits of Villa and Carninza Hav- Hughes asserted, "that America was
lug at various times denied that ready; that any suggestion to the con
secch, despite the testimony of sten- trary was thoughtless. Hut. in truth,
'grapl.ers who reported it. it was to . America was far from ready. It is now
le expected that he would deny or said with reference to the commercial
Modify his war department statement: rivalry that America is ready. 1 think,
as soon as he found that it was not in truth, that America is far from
accomplishing what he had hoped ready and that we shall not be ready
'or it. Hut denial, in f;ict. was mad" until we have a clearer notion of what
for him and without waiting for nis we may expect."
return to his office. It came from Mr. Hughes cited statistics of im
iis cabinet colleague. Secretary I-an-' ports to answer the president's dec
Miig. who protested that 'politic wis larpticn that everything exported from
!! thought of in the matter.' and Mr. ,h- I'niHd States to supply armies does
Riker. on his return to Washington no' total one per cent of the total of
today, corroborated Mr. Lansing by American commerce. After stating
s.oing thHt there was 'not the slicht- j th" increases in chemicals. brass.
-t political significance' in issuing
statement of la-st night.
'This statement, and the common',
i n it of administration officials today
hrow a white light upon the unscrup
ulous oliti-'al course of the Wilson
administration and its managers in
this campaign. As issued. Mr. Bak
er's statement said the war depart
ment hnd 'definite informat'on. con
firmed from other sources, that en?
nves of the administration's nolicv
toward Mexico had arraneed for a
spe-tai'.ilar attack on either the Amr.
I an forces or some rart of the Ami"
ban border bef re election dnv for the
?. unwise nuoted. Only one intcrp-eti-t.o..i
of that statement was poscible,
and that was tla. M'. Raker was
harcinu the political opponent of
tin Wilson administration with plot
ic active treason. And it is incred
ible, that Mr. Baker had anv othr
purpose in wind than that when h?
is-""d lhe statement.
"Such a charge would he dirc-tlv :n
lire w iHi utterances of Woodrow Wil
ton himself. Repeatedly the oresU
cVrt has shown himself to be fond
f this kind of denunc iat'on. He en
t. makirs charge (n broad, gen--al
term which snecifv nothing nM
tin one. Rspecially with regard to th-?
; ios tlon to his nollev toward Mexi' o)
i rd his handling of the MTica
-'blent be Mr. Wilson resor'.ed to'
t'.ir. sort of charges. On'y a fw d vs
mco. nt Shadow bii'n. he mi;. 'I do
not fird that anvbodv else's counsel
; u'"n r,T '" lMl -V .
i ' '. , 'n ' . ..1 ...J i. .
t:nr(i (it ,1ieiir. Pirc-l too.- n. ii,io-
bitherto sited as th counsellors -if j
the vested Interests in Mexico. Not
r.r.ce bi Mr. llson or any of his
s'ivordica'e ventured to make fnv of
these rhurges snecifle or to identify
an'- of th men against wrom tn-v
mizht ha' e heen aimed. Not once hus
-e or any o' his henchmen come into
n open. Put on severe' occasion c
h or thev tve tfl'.-ed thus v-Tuelv
i.boot tpe Vis'oysltv' of unn"med un
s;ccified and unidentified individuals
,.f erotin of individuals. On everv oo-
ssion when it bas been sought to
evoke exolir it information, thev pace
ai;en refng' in the roward'.y obscur
ity of rnonvmltj-.
"Mr. R:iKr wa nlnving the same
g imr th game of his chief " ben I
he issued the statement of last night.
The charr be was making was "flare constantly aggressive rgainst th'
f"F0n. ir Mr. liaker or anviiou-.- in
the administration has informnon
justifvlng such a charge, it is his
K"'nrn dutv to lav If Instantly befo-e
h proper law officials and proceed
o t-eie ;h traitors before the ha of;
histiee If Mr. Paker does not do that
he is violating the oath he took to
popcort th constitution and the la'.vs
of the I'nited Hiaten.
"The time hns come' to call a halt
iron this reckless disregard for. acts
and the truth, which permits such un.
mpported and nnsecific charge? .if
'reson snd other, high crimes to be
bandied ahoot so loosely and unchal
lenged by high officials of the gov
"rmfnt. To onote the language of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
NEW YORK. Oct. 27. Cleveland H.
1 Midge, who was graduated from
I'rincetln with Preaident Wilson In '",
heads the list of contributor, to the
oemoeratic campaign fund, according
to a preliminary report which will be
filed with the clerk of the house of
representatives tomorrow by Wilbur
Marsh, treasurer of the democratic
national committee. The report ac
counts for contributions of Jl,005,832.
the amount received up to and Includ
ing Octotier 24. Of this sum, Mr.
Ix.dge gave 150.000. Since then he has
contributed an additional 129,000, mak
ing the total t73,0"0.
The number of contributors was
given as 41.SX2. The amount received
In contribution of lees than $100 was
J2S1.S4. The contributions from thosr
giving more than $100 waa $744,438.
one of the entries on the list reads:
'Woodrow Wilson. Washington, L
.'.. $2.f.H0."
The report will be filed tomorrow
under the law which provides that a
preliminary report of receipts and ex
penditures must be filed not later than
ten days before election with the clerk
of the house of representatives An.
other report has to be filed six days
i.uer. ruiir ven ft. ago the total amount
CLEVELAND H, DODGE POTS IN "
BIG AMOUNT TO ELECT WILSON
PLAIN LANGUAGE USED
B Y HUGhno -re IS WER
WILSON'S WEAK WORDS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
ROCHESTER. N. Y., Oct. 27
Charles E. Hughes tonight replied to
statements In President Wilson's Cin
cinnati speech concerning preparedness
to meet commercial competition after
the war.
Mr. Hughes told an audience here
mac ill? uuiiliilisuuii.iii s virwa ic-
mjll(led hlm of its views on prepred-
that the administration s views re
nesa jn December 1SU. which were
.,ft.,r ,,ri1 .u,i. that he considered
the anti-dumping provision of the rev-
,, hin intended to meet the situ.i
"reauhiuus. 'mn ano steel, cotton anu
ninei miiiiuoiiiiics, .mi, nugnes de
clared that exportations of explisives.
SECT BAKER JOINS
IN MODIFICATION
OF WILD STATEMENT
-
SEVENTEEN PERISHED
FA RH AM, Que.. Oct. 27. The i
number of lives lost in the f:re I
that destroyed St. Kiizabeih s !
hospital here Wednesday night '
was reduced to ,17 today. Two !
aged inmates, wr.o had teeti in- '
eluded in the list of missing were !
found. Search of the ruins re-
suit -d in the finding of four ;
charred bodies. No impiest w ill i
he held, it was stated tonight, i
An investigation conducted by I j
i
i the municipal authorities to as
! cettain the ea;j.e of the fire led
! to the abandonment today of the
incendiary theory, and placed the
! blame uoon defective electric wir
1 ing.
D i
.v -, . !
. i-res.u. iu n.ni.se.t u ls umc to
jiui or snui Vi.
"Mr. liaker knows th.it he can nut
put up and he seeks to evade re-
si-ons.bil.ty for this charge. Just as he
reeus. bv absolutely false denial to
escape the rehponsibility for his
astounding utterances in Jersey City
ten days ago. Put even in his ef
forts at evasion. Mr. Faker does not
free himself from culpability.
Challenged in Washington toda
:'.'r,J.a'' r.jrPd W1,h, Mr' Ln"'"? '"
saying that the conspirators to whom
the statement of lust night referred
were not Americans, but Mexi. a is
w no had come to the American sido
of the border and were earning on
j their plotting in the I'nited States.
I 'Every one knows' he said, 'that a
large body of men who have w. tit
draw n from Mexico to this country
Mexican government
" I vi - I. . . . , ..; i
man to whom his assertion" applies
1
and does not instantly mvjke the
process of the Lew against that man.
then he is himself guilty of a viola
tlon of his duty and of his oath to
support the constitution and the laws
of the I'nited States. Mr. Raker is
himself a lawyer, and If he does not
know that the acts. he
charges against
nns In Cnit-d
States territory nre violation, of ::,e
t'.ltte.l tnt rw.no I h. ,,,.t
officer he ever had working for him
could tell him, and could find the
(Continued on Page Two)
received by the treasurer of the dem
ocratic national committee for cam
paign purposes was $l,113,r,2'J.
PRESIDENT WILSON HAS FINISHED "
IIGPIS FOR THE CAMPAIGN
.cwUb,v.',,P,x'r";e1W'rel 'Nw Jr"p-V- Tomorrow afternoon
LONG BRANCH,- N. J., Oct. 27. he will speak nt Shadow Lawn to
President Wilson returned here to-an audience made up mostly of New
night from his trip to Cincinnati, j Y'orkers, and next Wednesday and
which marked his last appearance in Thursday he will deliver addresses
the middle west before the election. : In' Buffalo and New York. He will
He motored directly to Shadow Lawn, make his last speech of the campaign
At frequent intervals during the day November 4. at a New Jersey cele
he shook hands with crowds as he bra tion at Shadow Uwn
passed throuyh West Virginia, Mary- For the first since the campaign
land and Pennsylvania. . opened the president has prepared
"If you make one speech here you his speech In advance, and it is plan
will carry Pennsylvania." said a man ned to have it mad at various meet
in the crowd at Philadelphia. "May- Ings.
be 1 will carry it anyway," responded i Demoftatlc leaders said toniEht the
ln President.
i oi- ineniueiu s speecnes nere he- most largely attended of the cam
tween now aril the election will be paign. Delegations of women and of
oevoieo cnieiiv to efforts to carry
. -..- iwm anu nis pome state or
including cartridges, had increased
from Jii.OOO.OOO to $467,000,000 in one
year, vith an increase of total exports
of $2,000,000,000. The nominee said he
was "amaied at the suggestion" that
It was such a small percentage that "it
co'ild hardly affect the great remain
ing percentage."
"Wny, if you had the greatest dis
tr?ss in this country," Mr. Hughes said,
"you would still have a tremendous
volume of commerce and trade. It
does not take much to contract the
prosperity of this country, to destroy
the prosperity of the country. The
great percentage of our exchanges and
of our commetce would continue, even
if we were in very serious straits.
"Whir, you infuse this abnormal de
mam, to which I have referred vou
have given a .stimulus which undoubt
edly is felt through the country; and
when you have a policy carried into
effect, such as was involved In the
I'mlerwood bill, the contraction result
ing fr in that jiolicy, although perhaps
a small percentage, wan enough to
send hundreds and thousands of work
ingmen into the streets. ,
"l.ct us net deceive orrselves. Let us
take .account of what is necessary for
the protection of our industry and let
us hit it as we are going to provide
a basis for prosperity for 'he many.
"It is said, aftef scoffing at the sug
gestion that is made with respect to
competition with .in energized Kurope
it. -r suggesting that America is able
to take care of itself, implying, of
course, with the present jvernmcntal
policies after saying there is no such
thing, then is It said, well, we have
made provision with respect to U Pi
our aiili-dcmi ing clause, in our rev
enue bill. And anybody that Is going
to threaten American industry anil
anybody who w ill in any way interfere
(Continued on Page Two)
(.Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON. Oct. 27. Secretary
' Uakcr left for Wilmington. Ohio, to
! night to continue his campaign speak
1 ing w fthout revealing either the sources
I or the exact nature of the Information
I which impelled the war department
I ye.s'erday to issue a statement saying
it had knowledge that an attack on the
border or on American troops in Mexi
i co was being planned by enemies of the
i administration's policy toward Mexico.
It was learned, however, that the sus-
picion was aroused here some days ago
, anu mat repons oi an aliened rain
I conspiracy appearing in certain Amer
1 lean newspapers were transmitted to
i the border for investigation. Agents
; of the department of Justice and the
; treasury are supposed to have made
the inquiry, all hough there are intima-
tions that General Funston also was
a(ivised as a matter .f information.
I Reports reaching Washinmon yester
I day led the secretary of war to confer
partment and issue a "statement.
Suggestions that the statement was
so worded as virtually to charge Amer
ican political opponents of the admin
istration of connpiring with the bandits
caused both Secretary P.aker and Sec
retary lansing today to reiterate the
there was no intention to do such a
thing. Moth said it was impossible to
conceive that any American could be
involved in such an enterprise and that
Mexicans now in the I'nited States
were responsible for the plot, wishing
to embroil the I'nited States and Mex
ico to the end that the de facto govern
ment might be overthrown.
In declining to make public the
nature of the Information received, it
was said at both the state and war de-
1 P that to do so would close
a l-alliutlln hnlini. kris,,U n.k Uk
valuable channel through which
watch could be kept on Mexican affairs.
The arrest of some individual accused
of complicity in the plot, it was stated
authoritatively, probably would be the
public's first information on the sub
ject. There Is no doubt of the security
I tn! Americai expeditionary force,
! ;pneraI Pershing has nearly 12.000 men
'ith him, It Is understood, and his
1 forces
are said to be so disposed that
any assailant who might come against
his lines Would be easily handled.
There is every indication that attackers
would be pursued whether the raid was
directed against the troops in Mexico
or a border town.
The state department received word
today that the situation at Chihuahua
City had been relieved by the arrival
of Carranza troops from the south to
augment tleneral Trevino's garrison.
Confirmation also came of General Tre
vino's denial that he was short of am
munition. , Reports from Mexico City say tiuiet
haj prevailed there and the departure
of General Carranza for Queretaro has
not been officially reported, although
press dispatches have stated that he
left several days ago.
meeting at Shadow Lawn will be the
working children are to be In the
auuience.
General Carranza
Announces He Is
To Be Candidate
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MKXP'O CITY. Oct. 27. General
Carranza formally announced his
candidacy for the presidency at one
o'clock today in response to a mani
fest of new Constitutionalist Liberal
party, which urged him to run for
the office and ofiered him its loyalty
and supiMjrt.
In hU acceptance, General Car
ranza said that if by vote of the
people they made him president, he
would obey, and cause to be obeyed,
the laws under the constitution. Gen
erals Gonzales and Obregon took the
oath of loyalty to General Carranza.
General Gonzales said the accept
ance of General Carranza marked the
necessary return to constitutionalist
order, which was the national aspira
tion. General Obregon assured Gen
eral Carranza that he and all the
men who had accompanied him
through the revolution would serve
loyally ufter the election.
General Ed lardo Hay. president of
the "onstitutionuUst party, made a
formal speech in which he offered
the party's support to Carranza.
(Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
HI- PASO. Texas. Oct. 27 Handils
under the command of Francisco Villa
are oiwrating train:, on the western
division of the Mexican Northwestern
railroad between Santa Ysabe! and
San Antonio, a repot t received by
government agents here today Slated.
Villa, when he started southeast
toward Satevo and Santa Rosalia, is
sail to have left a cimparatively
lurue force of men along the North
western to guard the railroad and to
prev.-nt any use of the line by ar
renza troops in the operations against
Villa and his commands. Villa, ac
cording to the same .soutce, now has
'.Pproxlmalely i.tmi) men, some of
whom are not armed.
BanHita Band Tooether
IOCGI,.S. Aril.. Oct. 27. "Colonel"
Roa;ia Garcia, for years, an inde
pendent bandit in eastern Sonora,
and Colonel Ktancisio P.iena. until
recently a fr.llower of Villa In Chi
hinhua. are reported in a liter re
eeived here today, to have joined
forces ami declared for the li-galista
part;,. Their combined following Is
said to number four honored.
The command is making Its head
ouarters in the lulls southeast of
Sahcaripa. the letter said.
Yaquis Surrender
DOCGLAS. Ariz.. o.t :'7. Five
bundled hostile Yan,ul Indians, un
der chiefs Marl. Matus, F.s,inos;4 Hnf
G.mez. considered the most b'mod-
mirsiv oi tnc leaflets, surrendered
in-ondittonallv to General f t--o.
Calles after a fifteen davs 'confer
ence in the hills south of Hcrmoslllo,
general i anes said.
Further surrenders of the hostile
tribesmen are exported to occur in
the next few days, he said. General
Francisco R errno. milttarv com
mander of state. ,ls holding a con
ference with mutt of the chiefs re
maining in tne field. General Calles
scaieo.
Not To Mix In
WASHINGTON. Oct. 27.-The Aus-
fo-iiungcrian embassy here tonight
disclaimed knowledge of the reported
departure f Washington of the
Austro-Hungarlan minister to Mexico.
After Senor Villa
''HIHl'AHCA CITY, Oct. 27. The
enveloping movement against Villa
was strengthened today, when Gen-e-al
May-cot te reached "Santa Rosalia
vith 2,200 men in order to prevent
llln from turning to the southeast
rrom his base at Santa Y'sabel Villi.'.
way to the north is also said to be
effectually blocked. Meantime forces
are on their way to guard the passes
:outhword. It is stated at headquar
ters, however, that the encircling
movement Is of wide extent, so that
some miririn of time must be allowed
to show the effects of the campaign
News was received todav by Gen
eral Trevino that General Arrieta
Mmenez had encountered a band of
Villa's followers on the 19th and
again on the 2."rd of this month, when
the oandlts were completely routed
lenvlntr among their dead, Jose Rod
riguez, a former Villa general and
Porforia Rodriguez, both notorious as
tram robbers, and several other of
ficers The bandits also lost 21
horses, :;o rifles and a quantity of
ammunition. Op the Carranza side
a colonel was killed and several men
wounded.
On last Tuesday eight followers of
Villa appeared at Aldama, 14 miles
east of Chihuahua, but were dispersed
before they could do any damage.
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Warm Reception
In Kansas City
of Hughes Special
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Oct. 27. Woman
'ampalgners of the Hughes Special
train met a stormy reception in Kan
sas City late today, when their body
guard of several hundred men clash
ed with Wilson hecklers. Banners
and pictures were torn from cars and
several men were struck. None of
the women was roughly handled.
When the Hughes special arrived,
crowds of republican men attempted
'o line a path to 'waiting motor cars
for the women campaigners, and hold
hack the dozenR or more motor cars
of women, whose variously inscribed
banners and pictures of President
Wilson proclaimed them democrats.
The flash followed and policemen
were necessary to restore order.
The women campaigners went for
motor ride through the parks late
this afternoon, then were entertained
at dinner at a downtown hotel, and
tonight spoke at a mass meeting.
VILLA BANDITS
HOLO RAILROAD;
HAS 4.000 EN
GERMANS ATTEMPT TO RAID
CHANNEL; BERLIN CLAIMS IT
WAS VERY SUCCESSFUL DAY
Perkins Addresses McCormick
On the Subject of Decency
In a Presidental Campaign
(Special to The Republican) has been no preparedness, and our
NEW YnUK, o t. 27. The follow-1 prosperity is wholly due to the war
ing letter was sent to the chairman in Kurope and not at all due to any
of the democratic national commit- thing that the democratic parly has
tee this afternoon by George W.
I'erkins, of the republican campaign
committee.
"Mr. Vance Mi 'ormick, Chan man.
"Democratic National Committee,
":;0 Kast 42nd St.. City.
"rear Sir:
"My attention has Just been called if not. he can not. I VrsonaK". I nave
to a statement by you published this j too much respect for the voters of
morning, in which you viciously at-, this country to believe -that your
tack me in connection with some candidate an ret away with it. I
advertising that is being done In the am confident that your appeal to the
papers favoring Mr. Hughes' election, yellow streak in American citizen-
"Yoti are conducting the demo- ' ship will fail, and fail ignomlniously
ratic campaign from behind, a shield as it ought to. It is enough to make
In front of your office, from which is the Mood of anv patriotic American
Usplcyel ih" slogan. I'eace, Prepared- citizen boil, to walk down forty sec
ness. Prosperity,' and above this ond street and see the American, flag
shield are draped a number of Ameri- flung to tiie breeze from every win
can flags. The eumpaign you are dow in your office. You people are
thus conducting is one of downright mighty piompt to display and wave
deception, and a man of jur in-I 'he American flag, but you are
telligence must know that it is de- ! mightv tatdy in dclending and pro
ception, that it is misleading. I tecti.ng it.
This country is not at peace; it I "Yours truly,
has not been kept out of war. There' 'Gr.oRGK W. PKRKINS."
PHBSPEH1TT1S
f Republican A
ST. LOI'LS. Oct
Leased Wire
-Warning Amir-
leans against "the danger of race an
tipathy flaming Into hatred," and
flga'nsl "tmconsecrated prosperity
which is bound to cause manhood to
decay," the pastoral letter of the Pro
testant F.pis.'opal church was read at
the final joint session of the triennial
convention here today. The letter is
the message of the 10S bishops of the
church to Its communicants and, un
der tl.c church law, will tie read at the
final Joint session of the church to its
communicants, and will be likewise
read ir every Episcopalian church In
the country. I'nlike most previous
pastoral letters, it dealt with secular
rather than ecclesiastic affairs. It re
viewed conditions In the I'nited States
and I-airope and in the Orient, and it
pointed out to this country the threat
that lingers in a nationalism which as
sumes "the ugly role of group-selfishness
i i false patriotism."
"Whatever dangers may lie lurking
beyond our western horizon." it as
serted, "can surely be averted by a
spirit of justice which has not always
prevailed In our dealings w tth the
ori "it."
Members of the church were admon
ished to sanctify their wealth by offer
ing freely of their substance to God's
cause.' it being added that "the wounds
of Armenia, Poland and Belgium still
lie gaping to the sky and offer their
dumb appeal to God and man."
The letter in part follows: "Amer
ica is involved today in world-wide
confusion, which finds Its most acute
expression in the battlefields of Eur -
t mm
ope. No self-Isolation on our part is . department of justice and the depart -possible.
The fortunes of the nations nient of labor are watching closely the
are interwoven as the threads of a migration of southern negroes to iyr
tapestry. I them industrial centers. The leaal
"Interest can never again be sec- officers hope to check possible election
tional. The world is henceforth one. frail(is, while the labor authorities are
for the time being in a disturbed and : interested primarily in preventing the
suffering unity, in days to come in a ' federal employment service from being
unity where order and health will I U)(Kl to fu.,her migration schemes,
reign. 'Here and 'there are merely) Uislrict Attorney Miller at Louisville
terms o, iiteiess space ine longest
distance in the human brotherhood is
but from the head to the feet of the
quivering, sensitive body. Political ex
pediency may in war-time require neu
trality of the slate, but it cannot hold
in leash the sympathies of the Indi
vidual citizen. A man cannot tie pas-
Bi.iiilnag ...ol raluin hiw mntihoiwt
"Tne fact that our nation is not at
war affords no grounds for smugnefs
It throws upon us the searching re
sponsibility of exalting the true Ideals
of peace and incorporating them in our , l"ans. ' a" reports ami correspon
national life. Nationalism too often dence are being withheld from publica
assn'mes the uglv role of group selfish- tion. The attorney general conferred
ness or false patriotism. Local condl- today with his .assistants on the ques
tions determine what form this disease tion of election frauds generally. He is
will take. Yonder it breaks forth in giving the matter personal attention
the rcarlet rash of war; here in uncon- and under his direction special agents
of the department are at the call of
(Contfnued on Page Two) every district attorney desiring assis-
GOPELAND IS ALLEGED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
GALVESTON, Oct. 27. Testimony
that George Ryan, one of the men ac
used of the murder of Wm. Black, an
anti-Catholic lecturer, at Marshall.
Tex., was near the scene of the al
'eged murder, with "blood on his
hands" and had admitted "going up to
Black's room to make or have him
leave town," wpas introduced today,
over the defense's objection. In the
trial of John Cupelnnd, charged with
murder.
I. A. Morgan of Marshall, the wit
ness, was called by the state in rebut
tal and told of meeting Ryan at the
hotel in Marshall. February 8, 1915, af
ter hearing the shots. "Ryan came in
BLOODY HANDS JOST AFTER KILLING
cbamnioned or accomplished
"Ti e issue of this campaign at the
moment is, "can Wilson get away
with it." Can be get a sufficient
nunber of voters to believe in your
cum 'aig i of misrepresentation and
decei, ion? If so, he can be elected;
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
VIENNA. vt 1 Via Berlin to
London, ext. 27.1 Tfne economical, fi
nancial and military status of Turkey
is highly satisfactory and her relations
with the central powers are of the
greatest friendship, said Haul Bey.
Turkish minister of foreign affairs, in
an interview with the Associated Press
representaTi e here today.
The establishment in the Ottoman
empire of a food commission, after the
German plan on which several German
experts served, the foreign minister
explained, had solved the problem of
feeding the large centers of population.
especially Constantinople, where the
work or alleviation, had also been fur -
thered by the fact that many troops.
w hich formerly had to be fed on the
Gallipoli peninsula and in the vicinity
of the city now were distributed
among other war theaters w here they
were closer to the food supply. It was
(Continued on I'age Five)
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I WASHINGTON, Oct. 27. Both the
nas ,)p,n rJpre, , relor, ,ne n,im,..s.
towns and destinations of all negroes or
any other possible voters going from
Kentucky, Alabama or any other part
of the south, passing through Louis
ville in suspicious numbers. Other dis
trict attorneys in the south and in mid
dle states ate understood to be under
. Himilar instructions.
milar instructions.
Department of justice officials de
cline to talk on the ground that it
might interfere with the government's
TD HAVE HAD
to the lobby from down stairs." Mor
gan said. ''There was blood ons1 his
hand.''
Morgan said he asked Ryan if he
was hurt, but that Ryan told him no.
but that those up there
have shot Rogers and Copeland."
"What was the trouble'.'" Morgan
said -he asked Ryan. The reply, ac
cording to the witness, was "we went
up there to make or have them leave
town."'
Ryan's trial is set for next week.
Deputy Sheriff John B. Henderson
of Marshall, a witness in Copeland's
trial today, said when officers entered
the room w,here Black lay dead, he
found that Black's revolver had never
been discharged.
FJ
Null b
NEGRO MOVEMENT NORTH
DISH LABOR AND POLITICS
LONDON CLAIMS
THAT ONLY TI
BDATSARESUNK
Recubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Oct. 27 Ten German tor
pedo boat destroyers attempted to raid
the Kritish cross channel transport
service la$t night, but the attempt
failed, says the British admiralty to
day. Two German destroyers were
sunk and the others were driven off.
One Kritish torpedo boat destroyer,
the Flirt, is misving. the British state
ment adds, and another destroyer, the
Nubian was disabled by a torpedo and
ran agroundd. Nine members of the
crew of the Flirt were saved.
The German destroyers succeeded in
sinking one empty transport the
Queen. The crew was saved.
The Hritish admiralty announce
ment follows;
"During last night the enemy at
tempted a raid with ten destroyers on
our cross channel transports service.
The attempt failed.
"The empty transport the Queen,
was sunk. The whole of her crew was
saved.
''Two of the enemy destroyers were
sunk and the rest were driven off."
' H. M. Torpedo boat destroyer Flirt,
Lieut. Richard P. Kellett, R. N. is
missing. It is said he may be lost but
nine of the crew have been saved. H.
M. Torpedo destroyer Nubian, com
mander Montague Herr.ard, R. N., was
disabled by a torpedo and taken in
tow but owing to the bad weather the
tow parted and she grounded.
German Account of Raid
BERLIN, Oct. 2!. (Via London.
Oct. 2k.) At least eleven outpost
steamers and two or three torpedo
boat destroyers or torpedo boats were
sunk or badly damaged by a German
torpedo boat squadron Thursday night
in the English channel between
Folkeston and Bolougne, according to
an official statement issued here. The
German torpedo flotilla returned safe
ly to its ba.se without any loss.
The communication says:
"Part of our torpedo forces moved
from a German Bay Thursday night
through the straits of Dover and Ca
lais to the line of Folkestone-Boulogne
in the English channel.
"According to the report of Com
mander Michelson. at least eleven out
post steamers and two or three de-
I st rovers or torpedo boats were sunk
! partially or totally near hostile ports,
Some members of the crews who were
j sav ed were captured.
i ' Several other guarding vessels and
I at least two rirstroyers were heavily
1 damaged by torpedoes and artillery
I fire. Also the English post steamer
(Continued on Tage Two)
tance. ,So far complaints have reached
the department of alleged frauds or
contemplated frauds affecting candi
dates for federal offices in Indiana,
Illinois. Ohio. Michigan. Kentucky,
Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York
and Missouri.
The department of' labor let it be
come known thtu it had issued orders
designed to prevent the use of tho
federal employment service in assisting
ip the migration of large numbers of
nfcgroes from the southern states.
Assistant Secretary Post said the de
partment had no intention of becom
ing a party to schemes which might
be devised for the purpose of lowering
wages or breaking labor strikes.
At the same time it was made clear
that in cases where investigation
proved it to be a fact that skilled
laborers were being hindered because of
lack of unskilled assistants and where
there was legitimate work for negroes,
efforts would be made to secure them
just as fast as possible.
Much information regarding the
migration has been collected. In the
south complaint is made that the
negroes are being taken to the north
with promises of much higher wages
and that if continued a serious shortage
of labor may result. The labor de
partment was represented today as
feeling that any laborer is justified in
going to that place where the wages
are best, and that the place he leaves
can remedy the situation by raising
the scale.
The American Federation of Labor,
according to Secretary Frank Morri
son, also is watching the movement of
negroes with the idea "if it is not a
scheme to get votes, it is for the pur
pose of securing cheaper labor lhan is
available at present."
Representatives of the federation
have been asked to observe and report
j on all large movement of negro labor.
The K. C. Increase
KANSAS CITY, Oct. 27. Negro reg
istration in Kansas City this year has
increased approximately one hundred
per cent within the last twelve months
according to a statement tonight of J.
J. O'Brien, county tax assessor.
Mr. O'Brien said he had found nine
hundred negroes registered who were
not listed on the tax biMiks.
Francis M. Wilson, I'nited States
district attorney, said he would make a
statement later.
- , ' )
