THE WITHER
Mr and warmer tnnlicht uud Snn
!l >
THE DAILY TELEGRAM
8.925
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATE PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE
Wns tlie total rlrmlntlnn of the Tele*
p'liin Frtduy.
ESTABLISHED 1861.
CLARKSBURG, W. VA, SATURDAY. OCTOBER 28, 191(5.
PRICE rW0 CENTS
TREMENDOUS NEW RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE SOON
SOMME BATTLE
GROWS FIERCER
GOLD HILL BILL 88
ASKED TO ANSWER
i
Russian Forces Renew Their;
Attacks on the Austro-Ger
man Line West of Lutsk.
INFANTRY ENGAGEMENTS
Anglo-French Attacks Are Re
puked by German Artillery
and Gun Fire.
(?V MIOCUTIO Mt?r
LONDON, Oct. 28.?"A telegram ro
ceoved in Rome from a German sou roe
reports there are Indications of the
beginning of a tremendous new Ruf
slan offensive In Galicia and Poland." j
nays a despatch from the Italian cap-.
Ital received by the wireless press, j
QUARRY IS CAPTURED
BY FRENCH FORCES
(?r AJ.OCIATIO .....]
PAItIS, Oct. 28.?French forms in
the region of Verdun Inst night cup
tured by the use of hand grenades the
quarry held by the Germans to the
northeast of Fort Douaumont. it was
officially announced today. A brisk
artillery duel continues In the region
of Douaumont.
On the Sommc front last night there'
wag an Intermittent artillery bombard- j
ment.
VIOLENT ATTACKS ARE
LAUNCHED BY TEUTONS
lav AMOCIATKO ?*???)
PETROGRAD, Oct. 28.?Austro-Ger-1
man forces launched a series of vlo- j
lent attacks against the Russian and
Roumanian positions on both banks
of the river Bystritsa in the region of
Dorna Wntra Friday, says the official
statement issued today by the Rus
sian war office, compelling the Russian j
advanced posts to abandon two
heights.
BATTLE OF SOMME IS
IS RAGING VIOLENTLY
ASSOCIATED
BERLIN, Oct. 28.?Infantry engage- !
ments between the Anglo-French and
German forces ou the north bank of i
the Sommc began anew Friday, says
the German official statement issued
today.
Preceded by a strong artillery prep
artion, the statement adds, the British
troops attacked across the line n>f
Gueudocourt and Lesbouefs. while tho
French moved forward In the district
of Morval. The Anglo-French attacks
were repulsed by artillery and machine
gun Are and northeast of Morval they
wero driven back by the Germans after
bayonet fighting.
On tho oast bank of the river Meuse
north of Verdun there were renewed
heavy engagements. French forces at
tacked from Thiaumont wood and on
both sides of Fort Douaumont and in
tho Fumln wood. All the attacks art*
said to have brokon down in front of
the German positions with heavy losses
to the French.
The Russians have renewed their
attacks on tho Austro-German line
west of Lutsk In Volhynla, delivering,
an assault Friday aftor two days ar
tillery preparation in the vicinity ol
T&zurze. The attack failed complete
ly, according to the statement.
Teutonic troops have won a victory ,
in the Dorna Watra region near the I
Junction of tho frontiers of Bukowlua,
Transylvania and Roumania, according
to the war office announcemet. Aus
tro-Hungarlan forces captured several?
heights from the Russians at the point
of bayonet and took more than 500
prisoners.
On the northern frontier of Rou
mania Austo-German forces captured
a height in the region of Kronsiadt and
extended their advance into the Part
zuza valley.
Teuton, Bulgar and Turkish forces,
under command of Field Marshal von
.Mackensen continue their pursuit of
the Russian and Roumanian armies in
norfhern Dohrudja. The forces of the
central powers and their allies are
meeting with little resistance, it Is do-"
clared. Five hundred isolated soldiers
have been taken prisoner and several j
munition columns and other war ma-j
Urial have been captured.
TT
Is Being Sent through the Mails I
of the Country in Viola- j
tion of the Law. j
<?Y ASIOCIATIO
Washington, Oct. as?warning to!
Wtm asters that under no circum
stances may Intoxicating liquors be
accepted for transmission through the1
mails was sent out from the postoffice,
department todnv. Numerous reports
had come recently of the mailing of
liquors in violation of the postal laws
and regulations. This Indicates, the
department says, that postal employes
are not familiar with regulations on
the subject
IS IN IXXJAIi JAIU
N. J. Nutter, arrestod at Grafton I
under a chr.rito of Issulnn a bad.
cheek for $38 on a Clarksburg bank |
In which ho had no funds, Is now In
the eounty Jail hero, having been
transferred Friday nlfht by Consta
ble Dexter DenUon, His trial will
come up next week in UaeUtxata II.
Sdward court.
?
+ L. K. ItiniAKDftTAKES ?
? 8TPMP FOit PROHIBITUM. ?
* ?
? L. K Richards. accompanlcd ?
+ by Mrs. Richards. went to ?
+ Cumberland. Md . Friday night ?
?? for the purpose of aeltyerlng u ?
? BcrirH of campaign speeches ?
? there and elsewhere In Alle- +
? gheny county, that state. In be- *frj
+ half of the prohibition amend- +
4? merit proposed to the Maryland ?,
? state oonstltut'on, which will ?
?i* be voted on at the general elec- ?
* tton. lie has been especially ?
?> engaged by the "dry" forces of ?
??? that state to give flr?fl hand in- ?
* formation in regard to the 4*
?fr manner In which the prohlbi- ?
* Hon laws of West Virginia work +
+ out. +
4 *
isrll'"'
1R1R1NGS
" I
Events of the Community Ar?
Set Down by a Telegram
Correspondent.
MT. CLAIU.. Oct. 28.?Funeral!
services over the body of little Frank, j
won of Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Vincent,:
who died early Thursday morning,
were held In the Methodist Episcopal I
church here Friday morning, con
ducted by the pastor, the li v. H. II.'
Workman, nr,d It wan laid to rest j
In the Odd Fellows cemetery here. |
The chlfil had been a sufferer for two;
months with a complication of diseas
es that seemed to baffle the skill of:
the attending physicians, and his
death wan not a aurprise to Ills grief
stricken parents. The Vincent fam
ily nil Join In expressing thanks to ?
all friends who so kindly assisted
them during the sickness and burial
of their little son.
The Willing Workers of the Meth
odist Episcopal church gave a,muni,
cal program In the church on Fri
day evening to a fair-sired audience.;
The feature of the entertainment was;
a thirty-minute addr-ss by Mrs. Alma,
McWhorter West on her favorite sub-i
Ject. ''Equal Suffrage ", in which sbej
showed herselr master of her Btibject,]
handling It In a strong and forceful;
manner. She made some good im-i
pressions upon the minds of the vot-|
ers who heard her. Miss Isadorj
Stout, of Bridgeport, was In attend,
ance and sang a beautiful solo with
piano nrvompanlmunt which received,
the only encore of the evening; nl-j
though 'all the parts were well ren
dered.
Master Howard, son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. P. Weekly, Is a victim of,
pneumonia fever.
Russell Rogers, whose slight Illness
was reported In a former letter, has
developed more serious, and he Is
now a patient of the St. Mary's hos
pital.
FEBE1L tiiTS
Are ?ep/ed unon Three Alleged
Bootless by United States
Deputy Marshal.
Three more alleged bootleggers were
In Jail here for a while Saturday under
charges of si lling liquors without a
federal excise stamp. They are Ted
Richardson. Claude Cutrlght and
Butch C!ark. I-iter In the day. how
ever, all furnished bond before S. R.
Harrison, Jr., United Slates court com
missioner. and were released.
The three were arrested Friday night
in Glen Ell: by .1. D. Moore, of PhlllppI,
United States deputy marshal, assist
ed by Deputy Sheriff I.ico Wolfe.
CASE GOES TO GRAM) JURY.
Domlnick Burgess, accused of
causing the death of Oeorgo Uoy
Miles, a thirteen-year-old boy of In
dustrial, with an automobile, waived
examination when arraigned Satur
day morning in Magistrate T. G.
NIcewarncr's court and was held to
the grand jury, nond was sel at
$3,GOO. which was furnished.
VESSELS SUNK.
LONDON, pet. 28?The Nor-!
weglan Hteamer Bygeo has beon sun* I
ofT Chriatlania, Norway, and Its crow j
has been landed, says a Lloyds t
agency despatch. The same agency |
reports that the British Eteam traw1-1
er Fuchsia has been sunk and Its I
crew Imprisoned In Germany.
GESSNER HERE.
Francis B. Gessner, of Washing
ton, D. C., whoso reputation as a sa
gacious political writer la nationwide,
arrived In the city Saturday morning
and visited Republican state head
quarters. whore he gave glowing re
ports of the Republican outlook In
the East. He will go to Parkersburg '
this evening.
T. R. Skldmpre, of. Centralla, was a
business visitor hero Saturday,
0. R. Martin, of Parkersburg, Is
transacting busluass in Uia clUr.
A FINE DAVID TO MEET THE COMING GOLIATH.
Cartoon by TOM MAY..
+
TOO HAD! ?
Clarkuburgcrs will not be +
given the opportunity to set In ? ?
on the "ground floor" In Sena- +,
tor William E. Chilton's North +j
Carolina gold mining scheme. <v
Thomas J. "rands, who Is to he +
grand marshal of tonight's pa- +
rade. said today that none of the +
mining stock would he sold at
the court house meeting to
night- lxical people are Indig
nant, having been led to believe
that they would be given an +
opportunity to buy some of tills
stock. Some of them had saved +
up their money for the last few *i
dayB with this purpose In mind. +
SI
TO THIS G!TK
With the Headquarters of the!
West Virginia Sunday
? School Association.
The executive committee of the
West Virginia Sunday School Associ
ation met in Wheeling Friday and!
considered the advisability of chang
ing the state headquarters to some i
more centrally located city. For ten 1
years or more the headquarters have'
1>een in Wheeling and the sentiment
has been growing that the whole state
could be better served if the head
quarters were elsewhere.
Wheeling made a strenuous efTort
to hold the officers b,ut they conceded
that a more central city would be ad- j
visable. Charleston, Huntington,;
Parkersburg. Fairmont and Claries-j
burg were all in the race.
Some were represented by secre-l
tariew of chambers of commerce, j
Forceful pleas were made why the as-1
soclatlon should bring its headquar
ters to different cities. One did not
know there were so many great cities
in the state before. Clarksburg wou
out simply on tho merits of the case.
The Rev. E. B. Turner, a member
of the executive committee, and su
perintendent of the state adult Bible
department, presented the claims of
Clarksburg. This means that the
Rev. Walter A. 8now, the general sec
retary of tho Sunday 8chool Associa
tion, and his wife, the elementary su-,
perlntendent, will make their home in
Clarksburg. Mrs. Snow's father and j
mother. Mr. and Mrs. Morris, will'
make their home with the Snows.
Mr. Morris is a retired minister. The
Snows will bo in Clarksburg on Mon
day to meet prominent Sunday
school workers and to plan moving
the state headquarters here.
CAMPAIGN FUNDS.
iar ..... iiu .....i
NEW TO UK, Oct, 28?Republican
campaign contributions up to Octo
ber 23 Inclusive totalled $1,667.
757.29, according to the national
committee'! report of receipt* and
disbursements made publlo here to
day by Cornelius N. Bllse, Jr., treas
urer of the committee. This amount
cantfftfrom 22,228 contributors.
HUGHES TOUCHES ON
HIGH COST OF LIVING
And Shows How Democrats
Have Failed to Keep Their
Promise to Reduce It.
<av MiteuTto
NEWARK, N. J.. Oct. 28.?Charles E.
Hughes told an audience of* farmers
here that America could have neither
peace nor security until it was pre
pared to maintain unflinchingly the!
known rights of its citizens on land j
and sea.
"Our opponents have told us In very i
explicit terms," he said, "that the con- j
stitutional rights of American citizens!
should follow them throughout the
world and that wherever they were t
lawfully following their business they |
should have full protection for their i
lives and properties. That principle)
I believe in, but performance has not
matched promises.
"We shall have no peace, no security
unless we maintain our self respect,
unless we have the esteem and friend
ship of all nations, unless the Ameri
can flag means justice, courteous
treatment, but Arm and unflinching in-1
sistence upon American rights with
respect to lives, property and com
merce on land and sea throughout the
world.
"Our opponents told us they were
going t orwluce the high cost of liv
ing. We now have thfc higher cost
of living. They have had a certain
policy, to which, for generations, they
have adhered. I do not regard it as
an American policy. It is\ery obvi
ously unsuited to the economic needs
at this time.
"We have now a temporary pros
perity due to the abnormal conditions
brought about by the European war.
But what are tho conditions we have
had? Is It possible that we can now
forget the conditions that existed in
this country before the war? Con
sider the business depression before
the war. Consider the serious condl
tiong with respect to many enter
prises throughout the country. P'anta
were closed, others were on reduced
time, thousands of men were walking ,
the streets of our large cities looking j
for work. It was a day of soup'
houses."
Mr. Hughes declared that to pre- j
vent a "repetition" of business de
pression when the war endB It will
be found necessary to apply "th?
sound Republican doctrine of pro
tection to American industries."
After his speech Mr. Hughes left
for Oswego.
. TIBBONS FUNKRAL,
Tho body of Mra. n. A. Tlbbons,
aged 28 years, of Pine Grove, who
died in a local hospital at 5 o'clock
Friday morning following a lingering
Illness of heart disease was taken to
Lost Creek Saturday morning and
the funeral services will be held at 1
o'clock Sunday afternoon at tho
Brlok church. The burial will be In
the church cemetery.
SO PREACHING HEItVIOE,
The Rev. Herbert Justin AIlsup,
pastor of the Central Presbyterian
church, has been suddenly called out
of town. There will be no preaching
service either morning or evening
Sunday, but the Sunday school will
be held as usu*l at 9:80 a. lit,
prompt*
BAITIWOBE CUTTLE ?El|
BALTIMORE, Md.. Oct. 28.?
Calves?Fairly constant inquiry for
the better grades of light voal calves. [
and on such the market is steady. We:
quote: Calves, veal, choice, by ex
press, per pound 12 '/fee; do, do, do.
by boat, do, 12fc@ 12 He; do, light,
ordinary, do, 11c; rough and heavy,
do, $8<0>$18.
Sheep and lambs?Choice sheepi
and fat lambs meet with prompt
sule. Wo quote: Sheep, No. 1]
per pound, 5c($6c; do, old bucks, do,;
*4c<8>5c; do, common to fair, per head,'
*1 .60 @$2.50; lamlm, spring, choice,1
per pound, lOcft-KMAc; do, do.
small and poor, do, 8c ?9c.
Live pigs as to size, per head, $2(fj>
$2.50; shoats, as to size, do, $3@>
*4.60. ?
Beof cattle?We quote: Beef cat
tic, first Quality, per pound 7Co',
7V4c; do, medium, <lo, 0c@6%r; do.j
bulls, do, 4c?5c; thin Hteern and
cows, per head $10?>J20; oxen, per(
pound 4c@f>c, milk cows, good, per
head, *30 ?) *60.
TO PREACH.
The Right Ilov. W. H. Oravatt,'
bishop of the dlocose of West Virgin-j
la, will preach In Christ Episcopal
church at 11 o'clock Sunday morning
and at 7:30 o'clock Sunday evening.
While in tho city Bishop Qravatt will
bo a guest of Mr. and Mrs. Lynn S.
Hornor, on West Pike street.
FOOTBALL GAME SUNDAY.
The football team of the Indian
Athletic Club of Stcaley Heights will
clash with tho Industrial eleven on
the Thorn field alongside tho West
Fork river, near Point Comfort, at
2:30 o'clock Sunday afternoon. Both
toams are in the pink of condition and
a fast game Is expected.
Must
Right is Said to Be Reiterated
in the Note of Reply by
Great Britain.
<B* ASSOCIATES
WASHINGTON. Oct 28.?Oreat Brit
ain's note in reply to American repre
sentations against the commercial
black list wai received today at th?
Bta(e department. Arrangements re
garding its publication will be made
later. It la understood to reiterate the
contention tor the right to blackllit
but offers methoda of relief to Ameri
cans in certai nclroumatances,
The British note ie in reply to the
American note of July 18, which de
nounced .the black list as an "arbitrary
Interference with neutral trade" and
"Incosistet with that true justice, sin
cere amity and impartial fairness
which should characterize the dealings
of friendly governments with one an
other."
The names of some American firms
hare already been taken from the
black list and the Britlah note Is un
derstood to effer means of removing
People Here Want a Full Explanation of That North Carolina
"Gold Mine" Proposition the Senator Had on a Few
Years Ago and They Want No "Gold Bricks."
OPEN UP. SENATOR, AND GIVE AN ACCOUNT OF SCANDAL
Make a Full Breast of the Affair and How It Was That Wylie
Beall Could Not Run for Congress unless He Took Some
of That Mythical Get-Rich-Quick Mining Stock.
The visit here today of United States Senator William E.
Chilton, of Charleston, for the purpose of delivering a campaign
address tonight at the court house and the announcement that
ushers wotild pass through the aisles offering stock in North Caro
lina gold mines, recalls the fact that the senator was the central
figure of a nation-wide scandal along about the middle of June,
lit 14.
As the propounding of <|uestions to campaign oratora'appears
to he a popular pastime this year, it might be well for Senator Chil
ton in his address her ? tonight to answer the question why he ex
ploited North Carolina gold mining stock on United States Senate
stationery at the time mentioned.
According to the newspapers of June 14 and 15. 1014, various
persons in the country had been receiving communications on the
official,letter paper of the Senate committee of the United States
Senate in which William E. Chilton, of West Virginia, chairman of
the committee, painted the rosy prospects of n North Carolina gold
mine. While acknowledging an interest in the mining venture, ac
cording to the newspapers of that date, Senator Chilton disclaimed
responsibility for the extraordinary use of the stationery of the
Senate committee. He tried to shift the blame upon clerks.
But, the appearance of these letters among the curb brokers of i
New York had a somewhat spectacular character and in other
quarters brought to definite foundation stories which had been
circulated in Washington for some time, that a section of the Sen
ate and others in Democratic officialdom were in the throes of an <
incipient gold fever; that dreams were being dreamed of fabulous
fortunes to be drawn from the bowels of a North Carolina moun
tain ; that senators were letting their friends in on the good thing;
that clerks and pages who were fortunate enough to get an inkling
of this short cut to "easy street" were withdrawing their money
from the banks to buy stock, and that all were basking in the sun
shine radiated by one Walter George Newman, a promoter who had
had something of a record in mining ventures.
The scandal attained such proportions in Washington and in
the eastern money centers, where, it is recalled, a number of the
money barons were interested, that steps had to be taken in the
Senate for an official investigation into the exploitation fo the
North Carolina gold mining proposition. Before either Senate*'
Chilton, or Senator Lee Overman, of North Cnrolina, who was also
accused in the scandal, had ucted in the matter, Senator LaFollette
had served emphatic notice that he would present a resolution ask
ing for an inquiry and would urge its adoption by the Senate. The
accused Senators were thus forced to the ignominious and humil
iating spectacle of asking for an investigation of themselves, which
was done by Senator Overman. The resolution introduced in the
Senate authorized the employment of a special committee of five
senators to make the official investigation. i
The resolution, in fact, was the one drawn by Mr. LaFollette.
It appeared that the accused senators were too embarrassed to get
one up for themselves. The senator from Wisconsin had yielded
in favor of Mr. Overman after Senator Chilton had told him that
if such a resolution was to be submit ted he should permit ft to come
from him (Chilton) or from Mr. Overman.
The inquiry was authorized to include not only the use of
Senate stationery, but atop the sending of an employe of the treas
ury department at the government's expense to the North Carolina
proprty for the purpose of investigating the mine.
The senator should tell the people what the proposition was he
offered Wylie Beall, following which Beall called the senator a
Judas Iscariot.
Mr.^Chilton will likely dodge this proposition in his address
here tonight, for an obvious reason. The explanations he has hith
erto made of his connection with this scandal have not been very,
explanatory.
SPECIAL CARS.
Escape from City Home In
Pittsburg after Breaking
Down Door of Ward.
CIV AttOCIATtO ??>???>
PITTSBURGH Oft. 28.?Morris Dia
mond. who was Hent to the city home
at Marshallsea a month ago alter his
arrest here for sending threatening
letters to PresidenttWIlspn from Cleve
land, escaped from the Institution last
night Diamond and thbee other men
broke down the door of the ward
where they were confined and making
their way to the street door and sawed
the bars. Diamond lias been undei
observation by physicians to determine
his sanity.
*
?
?
4* " Judge Ira B. Robinson. Re
+ publican nominee for governor,
+ will arrive In the city on train
+ No. 12 this evening from West
+ Union, and will go from here
? by lnterurban to Shlnnston,
? where he spimkn In the opera
+ house at 8 o'clock. Special and
? regular cars will leave the looal
+ lnterurban station at 6:30-.
+ o'clock, carrying Judge Robln
? son. a large delegation of local
+ Republicans and Gregory"!
+ First regiment band. i'
TO HOLD CONFERENCE.
mscitTta nun
WASHINGTON Oct. 28.?An In
formal conference on the nationwide
car shortage will be conducted at
Louisville November 8 and 4 by In
terstate Commerce Commissioner Mo
Chord upon the urgent request of
shippers. Representatives of all the
southern and eastern rallroadB and
of southern shippers will be present.
KAISKU'H NARROW E80APH.
* i*v Aflacx.i4T?<* piitati
PARIS, Oct. 28?A bomb dropped
by an aviator of the Entente Allies
has killed the engineer driving the
train of Emperor William, according
to Information received at Zurich,
Switzerland.
PETER rONTmrS DEAD.
Peter Fontlrus, a middle aged
Oreek resident of the tin plate addi
tion, died at 6 o'clock Saturday m?ra
in k la a local hospital following, on
'J'""" *>{ hwut disease. No funeral
PEACE JARRANT
Is Sworn Out aqatnst Colored
Woman and Stie is Put in
the County hi.
Mrs. bondonlal Wilkinson, a colori
ed woman of Montlcello avenue, la ai t
prisoner in the county Jail awaltl
a trial before Magistrate R. Edwi
Kldd under a peace warrant swor
out against her by Mrs. C. A. Turnei
also colored. The latter charges hep
with threatening to kill Katie !
Bassel, a daughter-in-law of the I
palnant.
Mrs. Wilkinson was arrested
day morning by a city policeman and
was placed In the city look-up, trtj
when the peaoe 'warrant was
out before a magistrate, she *
moved to the county jail. Mag
Kidd will hear the ease Monday, ^
strike: ends.
ATHEN^Ocr'aT-TK strlfc
the Larlssa railway has bee
and the withdrawal ot^ the
troops from 1
