I S PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1916. FOURTEENTH iYEAR 'H
MR. F. M. THEBO
h WILL SPEAK AT
THE CLUB DINNER
Tho first Connnercln! Club month
ly dinner will bo held -Thursday, Nov
ember Oth, at tho Hotel Logan cafe.
Mr. F. M. Thqbo, superlntondent of
Tower and Construction of the Utah
l'owcr & Light Co., has been engaged
to give a talk on Hydro Electro Dov
elopmnet. Mr. Thobo Is a college
man from the East and has' had flfi
teon years of practlcl experlonco In
electrical development., Ho has had
chargo of B.omo of tho largest pro
jects In tho West. In California he
worked on a project which cost over
thirteen and ono-half millions of dol
lars, and It was necessary to con
struct over fifty miles of railway.
Mr. Thebo'lias supervision of tho
plants at Oneida and Grace, Idaho.
The (lumo at Oneida Is sixteen feet
In diameter and the one at Graco
Is twenty feet, being tho largest In
tho world.
Professor O. B. Hendricks has ar-
I ranged with Mr. Thobo to glvo a
talk to his class In tho afternoon of
tho Oth, on construction and Indus
trial etllcloncy.
It Is tho intention to make tho
dinners as practical and interesting
as possiblo. Already the public en
tertainment committee lms in mind
men who will talk on tho use and
abuse of credit, salesmanship and
other live subjects.
Before tho largo flume at Graco
is covered It has been suggested that
It would bo an excellent outing for
tho members of tho Club to form au
tomobllo parties and visit tho plant
at Oneida and Grace. Tho roads are
in excellent condition and tho trip
I can bo made in threo hours. At
Grace, ten-thousand h. p. will bo developed.
T1 BEET DIGGING
AT HYDE PARK
I . IN FULL SWAY
HYDE PARK, Oct. 2G. Beots,
beets, beots notliln gbut beets from
morning till night. They nro In our
minds all day and wo dream of
them at night. Wo haven't tlmo en
ough to think of much else.
Tho monotony- is generally broken
by a political rally, or an agroomont
over the merits of some candidates
by Bomo partisan politicians.
School has closed Jf or two weoks
so that ho children can assist In tho
n beots, at presont tliero Is considerable
J sickness In our mldsK
H Mr. Martin C. Iteedro, Samuol Bur-
ol Kes. 'and n nlno yoar old son of
Lq. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Porkcs aro
laid up with pneumonia, and Miss
: Martha Ballam, daughtor of Mr. and
Mrs. Fred T. Ballam Is suffering with
appendicitis. Thoro nro also many
Ebad cases of lugrlppo and soro throat.
Thelma, tho olght-yoar-old dnugh
I tor of Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Hansoy,
I Is Just recovering from a severe caso
of bronchial pnoumonla.
J Thero will bo a Democratic rally
hold hero tomorrow ovonlng. Speak-
era, B. H. Roborts and Simon Bam-
bergor, tho band In attendance.
'' J,rB Samuol Chrlstonson, of Hurley,
I Idaho, Is horo visiting with frlonds.
Whllo driving wost of Smlthflold a
fow nights Blnco, Bishop C. G. Hydo
had a narrow escape from what night
nave been a' sorlous nccldont In
turning out to pass a team, tho road
being qulto narrow, tho auto tipped
and nothing but a largo bush saved
U from going ovor tho embankment.
With assistance of Mr. Hill and his
excellont team tho auto waB pulled
Jm oack upo ntho road and each ono
went on his way rejoicing.
I Wo neod somo flno good woathor
now to mako us all happy.
I A very delightful social was held
P at the home of Miss I.canore Hallan-
' yne, last Monday evening. The eve-
MpI ""V Wa' SIcnt '" (la,ici"- games,
fnM and mic A buffet luncheon was
rved, Thirty-five guests were
present. Those who assisted in
vinB were: Miss Mclba Morgan,
Misses Lpila and Orctta Merrill,
" Kate Thomas, Miss I.cnorc
Jo"Her and Miss Tressic Lincoln.
ELDER WINN
CALLED TO GO
TOJAMOA
Smlthfleld, Oct. 2 G. Elder Frank
Winn, son of Up. Win. L. Winn
has been called to fill another mis
sion to tho Samoan Islands and
assist In translating tho Hook of
Mormon Into tho native language.
Elder Winn returned home about
two years ago after having spent
four and a halt years on tho Is
lands whero he acquired tho lang
uage used thero perfectly.
Dr. Morrell of Ogden Was in town
today and paid a visit to tho little
daughter of Dr. Morrill who has
been so seriously 111 tho past two
weeks,
Thero will bo a Republican rally
at the HUlyard opera house Tuesday
Oct. 31. Mr. Morln . Mondol of
Wyoming will bo tho principle speak
er and tho Glee Club will furnish tho
music.
-nvltntlons aro out announcing
tho marrlago of Miss Anna Hunt of
this city to Mr. Edmund Baron. The
wedding to take place Nov. 15.
The M. I. A. of tho second ward
will glvo tho following program
Oct. 31st, which is special activity
night.
Poom, Miss Alta Chambers, Story
Eunice Woodruff, Declamation B. H.
Smith, Chorus, Chloo Cantwoll and
Co., Talk, Frank Winn, Music James
Cragun and Co.
At Benson Stake Conference held
at Lewlston Sunday John H. Peter
sen of the second ward was sustain
ed as Stako Superintendent of Sun
day schools.
Mrs. Georgo Roomney, Is nt homo
again after a months stay in Salt
Lako City.
Born to Mr. and Mrs. Samuel
Gorden a fine baby girl on Friday.
RALLYS TO BE
HELD IN COUNTY
BY REPUBLICANS
Tonight at Providence, Lon J.
Haddock and E. Conway Ashton,
good music. Democrats Invited.
Monday night, October 30, Win.
M. McKay et al at Cornish. Good
music.
Tuesday, October 31st, at Hydo
Park and Smlthflold, Congressman
Mondcll of Wyoming. Ono of tho
best speakers of tho House of Repre
sentatives. A good turn-out doslred
at all rallys. Good music and a good
time.
Song Service.
Fifth ward, Sunday Evening, Oc
tober 20, 7 p. m. An evening with
tho writers of tho Gospel Hymns.
Program :
Tho Gospol Bolls Choir
Prayer.
Abldo With Mo Choir
Holy, Holy Choir
Tho Great Physician Malo Quartet
Lead mo Saviour Choir
Short Talk Prof. Wm. Peterson
I'm a Pilgrim Choir
Como to tho Saviour Choir
Nearor My God to Thoo Choir
Ono Sweetly Solemn Thought,
Duot and Chorus
A Mighty Fortress Choir
Tho public Is Invited.
St. John's Church
Sorvlces at St. John's on Sunday
as follows:
0:30 a. m., Sunday school.
11:00 a. iu., Morning Prayer and
Sermon.
8:00 p. m., Evonlng Sorvlco and
address.
nEV. E. T. LEWIS, Rector.
OHOIll MEMBERS.
All mombors of tho Tabornacle
choir aro roquostod to bo In their
places, at tho funeral sorvlco." of our
lamontod brother Dr. O. C. Orsmby
at 2 o'clock Sunday.
S. B. MILTON, Conductor.
JIE.V WANTED.
Men wanted at tho Lowlston Sugar
factory. Adv. tf
BERGESON AND FACER;
WHY AND WHEREFORE
THE HOUSE OP BERGESON
m In speaking of taxes, and the official acts of Com
missioner Bergeson, we do not desire to be unjust
or to make innuedos from which definite conclusions
may be hard to draw. Mr. Bergeson is a public of
ficial, whose official acts are open to inspection, and
in taking a passing glance-at his official acts, we
prefer to get just as close to him as possible.
The record sshow that inffive cases Mr. Bergeson
reduced his own taxes as follows:
1G0 acres assessed at $800.00 cut to $680.00
240 acres assessed at $1200.00 cut to $960.00
120 acres assessed at $600.00 cut to $480.00
120 acres assessed at $600.00 cut to $480.00
120 acres assessed at $600.00 cut to $480.00
It further shows 229 acres assessed at $700.00
slightly over $3.00 per acre.
In the case of Albert Bergeson, his brother, the
records show the following:
70 acres assessed at $49tf0.00 cut to $4000.00
75 acres assessed at $3500.00 cut to $2725.00
16 acres assessed at $400.00 cut to $190.00
Joseph Bergeson, another brother, the records
shows 35 acres assessed at $875.00 cut to-$350.00.
Now it may be that this wholesale reduction on
the part of Mr. Bergeson, who was Judge and Jury
over his own assessments arid those of his brothers
is warranted and justified, but the question natur
ally arises in the minds of the tax payers why such
reductions in the "House of Bergeson?" The man
who assessed the Bergeson property was apparently
of Mr. Bergeson's own choosing and would be ex
pected to do him justice along side with his fellow
citizens. If he did not do Mi. Bergeson justice, it
would appear as though the assessor should have
been discharged. If Mr. Bergeson has any good
reasons to advance for his apparent activity in his
official capacity to his own interest, no doubt the
people of Cache County would be glad to hear from
him.
"THE HOUSE OF FACER"
Mr. James J. Facer, Chairman of the Board of
County Commissioners, is a very fine gentleman and
of course will no doubt object to a slight reference
to his official acts in his handling of his own prop
erty. Should we publish things that we ought not
to publish, we are sorry, but with the assurance that
we are simply quoting the records, and willing to do
anything in our power to enlighten the public, we
are sure that Mr. Facer and his immediate folloW
I ers will not object.
It has been claimed that tax irregularities are
numerous throughout the County and that Chair
man Facer has been a party to a "favored few." Let
us see if Mr. Facer has recognized himself as one of
the "favored few."
The records show of Mr. Facer's assessments as
follows :
117 acres in College assessed at $5S10 cut to $3510
10 acres No. 1 land in Hyrum assessed at $100
per acre said to be equal of land in Cache County
assessed at $150 per acre.
26 acres good land in Avon assessed at $20 per
acre.
95 acres in Section 3, Twp. 11 North, Range 1
West escaped assessment. Later it was found and
the official force got busy and put it on the addi
tional assessment list. Strange that property of
such a prominent gentleman should be lost in the
shuffle.
These are some of the things that interest tax
payers. They may be alright and if so, there is no
cause for complaint. If Bergeson and Facer are pre
ferred citizens, then we "pass."
SOME WHYS AND WHEREFORE
Why should the Herman Johnson Apple Orchard
East of Logan in 1915 be assessed at $560.00, im
provements $500.00, total assessment $1060.00 and
in 1916 assessed at $6250.00, improvements $1200.00,
total $7450.00? Evidently an apple orchard is prey
for the present Democratic Administration in years
when the frost takes all the apples.
Wherefore, will the assessor or some member of
the present County Administration kindly explain?
LARGE ADDIENCE LISTENS I
ATTENTATIVELY TO SEN. 1
W. E. BORAH'S ADDRESS 1
Nibley Hall Filled to Doors By Citizens SI
Anxious to Hear Great Statesman jfl
Exposes Democratic Policies jfl
Beforo tho greatest rally In tho
history of Republicanism In Cacho
County, Senator W. E. Borah of Ida
ho stirred 2,000 persons to nn out
burst of raro onthuBiasm at Nibley
Hall Thursday evening when he gavo
utteranco to an Inspiring plea for tho
return of "Truo Americanism" and
urged Ills hearers to Join In tho
movement to "Restoro tho Honor of
tho Unltod States."
Tliero was no abuse, no mud-sllng-Ing,
no villifylng, but a slmplo plain
rehearsal of cold facts told In slmplo
eloquent language Preceding Sen
ator Borah, Miss Helen Todd of the
National Woman's Party mado nn el
oquent plea for tho aid of tho wo
men of Cacho County in behalf of
suffrage for tho women of America.
Sho told how tho women Buffered In
tho largo centers of tho East, of how
President Wilson had refused assis
tance to tho proposed suffrngo am
endment to tho constitution and how
Governor Charles E. Hughes had de
clared that If ho wero elected Presi
dent, ho would do all In his power
to pass tho aniondment. She recited
how tho negro, tho foreign born, tho
Chinamen born In this country nud
tho Indian wero given tho franchise
and then asked If it was not Un
Amorlcan to deny tho women tho
privilege that all these enjoy. Sho
brought the houso down when sho
said "Wo thought wo might scrooch
in with tho Indians" but President
Wilson said "No" and omphaslzed his
attitude by sending medals to bo
worn around tho flecks of Sioux In
dians, In his address Senator Borah ad
hered closely to tho record. Ho
said the Republican party has had a
definite policy in Mexican nffalrs as
well as In foreign nffalrs, that It
stands for tho protection of tho Am
erican laborer, manufacturer and
American citizenship. Ho scored
present administration for Its cau
cus rulo nnd declnred that tho gov
ernment should bo placed In tho
hands of tho people. Ho showed how
tho Caucus rulo worked In tho Un
derwood bill and how It was respon
sible for wanton extravagance.
Through Its operation he showed that
tho present Democratic congress ox
ceeded la its appropriations nnd ob
ligations the last Republican Con
gress by moro than $500,000,000.00.
To clinch his 'irgumont ho quoted tho
severe criticism of Representatives
Fitzgerald and Slsson, two of tho
strongest Democrats In tho Houso.
Ho showed how tho Un-American
Caucus system was responsible for
somo largo slices of "pork" In favor
of tho Southern Statos. Just ono
pago from tho River and Harbor Bill
making appropllations for rivers and
creeks In North Carolina was sulllcl
cnt to convlnco tho largo audience
that tho present Congress was not
only -wantonly extravagant but crim
inally extravagant and when ho read
form another bill of tho bill show
ing the mammoth appropriations In
tho behalf of cotton nnd tho $100,
000.00 opproprlatlou "for Instruc
tions to tho pooplo of Luslana how
to rnlso horses and hogs" tho large
audlenco was assured that tho "South
was in tho saddle" and that the
presont Domocratlc Congress had no
dcslro to curtail oxponses and lessen
thd burdens of tho people.
Ho had been Informed that Sena
tor Gore claimed that tho Federal
Reserve Act provonted a panic Just
prior to tho war and was not long
In producing dates, as well as state
ments from Secretary McAdoo to
show that tho Federal Roservo Act
was not !n oxlstonco until aftor the
crisis ' passed, further showing
that .i.u Vrooland Aldrlch Act, a
Republican measure was responsible
for tho prevention of the panic,
clinching this statement with tho
words of Secrotary McAdoo,
Whoro lo mado his great hit was
on tho Mexican situation. Ho show-
cd that tho administration had med- j
died In Mexico nnd then sldo-stcpped ' rial
nnd then meddled ngnin, that it went I wBM
to Moxlco obstciiBlbly for a salute to Sal
tho Mag but really to drlvo out tho I mm
only President In Moxlco. Ho said: EH
"Who was Huerta ,tho man upon lafl
whom wo wero mnklng this attack? 1 L
Huerta was tho do facto President of H
Moxlco, If not tho do Juro President I
of Moxlco. Ho represented tho only H
government thero wns In Moxlco; ho ' Bal
represented tho only law and order , WMW
thero was In .Mexico. Ho had Juris fH
diction of 75 per cont of tho territory 1 9H
of Mexico; twonty-flvo statos of tho H
twenty-seven wero under his control. 'H
Ho had nn army of 80,000 men. Ho 'iflafl
had contracted with Franco for $100- loal
000,000 to onnblo him to draw his JIH
country Into law and order, nnd most i.
of all, that which concorns us most il
Is that within tho territory over fl
which Huerta had Jurisdiction , no H
American citizen nt any tlmo' during i jfl
his reign has been Injured, no prop- H
orty of an American citizen overbad H
been destroyed within tho Jurlsdlc- H
lion of Iluerta's rolg'n during tho MMW
time ho was President of Moxlco. Bal
'Kept Us Out of Wnr' M
"And so wo went to Vera Cruz to ' jH
dostroy tho do facto government and . MmM
the only man who hnd protected Am- laH
orlcan citizens In Moxlco slnco Diaz '''H
left. Ah, but they say tho President j-H
has kept us out of wnr. Yes we wont i mmf.
to Vora Cruz and lost nlnoteon of our ' Sm
nion, woundod clMy-throo, killed r WM
300 Moxlcans, shot 'down their public ' IDI
buildings, took possession of tholr ' -ffl
port. What was It? What do you fiafl
supposo tho Moxlcans thought it was? ' Mmt
Supposo wo had gono to Germany , jlH
and fired shot and shell Into ono of RiMM
her ports and killed a German citl- ififl
zen. It would have been war. Sup- I wjm
poso wo had gono to Liverpool and .39
fired shot and sholl Into that city 'j '9
and killed an Englishman. It would Ml
havo been wnr. Tho only roason It 51
was not war, continued nnd bjoody if I
war, with Moxlco, was bocauso Mox- I II
lco, torn and distracted and domprnl- J vM
Ized, could not como back. Ifl
"Tho only reason your boys to- JM
night are not engaged In bloody con- Ell
fllct Is because Moxlco was unablo 9H
to resent tho attack upon her. If I ;H
meet a cripplo upon tho streot, hnm- jfffl
mer him down, and loavo him wrlth- Ml
Ing In his blood It may not have been Ml
n fight, but tliero Is no honor to mo E,t
bocauso it was not a fight. It was
no fault of tho mine that thoro was- ft I
n't a light. Wo waged war with i I
Spain nnd lost a less number of men 1
than waging peace with Moxlco. Now li I
my friends lot us follow this inter- M I
modelling a llttlo furthor. When wo M I
had to get rid of Huerta wo had to ilj
find-somebody to tnko his place. Un- ill
dor the Monroo doctrlno tho nations ; M
of tho earth would not havo per- '! )l
mlttcd that chaotic condition long to il
continue.. Wo had to find someone ;
with whom to co-oporate and wo took ? 1
up with our friend Villa. Who is 1
Villa? If I call him a murdoror I 1
would compllmont tho gentleman. If '
I referred hi in as nn assassin It ill
would but poorly describe that incnr- mm
nato bolng. Villa was tho first ban- jJlfl
dlt In Mexico who stood and gloated mm
Whllo his soldiers ravished Amer- , jVl
lean women. j il
"Villa was a man whom tho socre- ! Hfl
tary of state's ofllca will disclose was
gulty of murders to tho tuno of ( MM
more than olghty-threu Amorlcan clt- : wM
lzons. But wo did tako up for a ' In
time with Villa and Villa did not $91
succeed, and tlion wo took up with J 91
Carranza, and upon tho 10th day ot f WM
Octobor 19 IS, wo rocognlzed Carran- ', Fjl
;a." ifM
"What was tho situation whon wo 1;yaH
recognlzod Mr. Carranza i In Mr. il
Lansing's noto of tho Tontleth of i'afl
Juno, 10 1G, he says; 'During tho !1h
past nlno months in particular tho mm
frontier of tho Unltod Slates along ''11
tho lowor Rio Grando has beou fmm
(Contlnuod or Pago Eight) imm
jMmMMM
