THE DONALDSONVILLE C IEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLVI. DONALDSONVILL', LA., SATURDAY OCTOBER 28, 1916. NUMBER 13.
NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS Olt
Coming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
Triangle Attractions at the Gem.
Today-Frank Keenan and Enid
Markey in "The Phantom."
Sunday-Mae Marsh and Robert
Harron in "The Wild Girl of the Sier
ras.'
Friday-Ford Sterling in "His Wild
Oats," and DeWolf Hopper in "Poor
Papa," Triangle-Keystone comedies,
two reels each. Also Pathe Nets.
Saturday-Charles Ray in "The
deserter."
Sunday, Nov. 5-DeWolf Hopper
in "Casey at the Bat."
"The Phantom." tc
"The Phantom," in which Frank st
Keenan and Enid Markey will appear ft
at the Gem today, is said to be one of 01
the best detective stories written since w
the famous "Raffles" series. The 0
"Phantom" is the sobriquet of Farrell, a
the most elusive "gentleman thief" ti
known. Operating in conjunction a:
with his valet, Crabbe, a rascal of t(
u ness, he has es- si
capdetete for many years. Still ti
the detective service is aware that SI
Farrell is responsible for many jewel
robberies, even though they have not o
been able to get any direct evidence. 13
So Inspector James Blaisdell of the s:
central office calls to notify Farrell h
that it might be well for him to move I
on to another city. Farrell readily h
promises to' leave town, planning to t
go to the home of James Bereton in i
the suburbs to rob Bereton's daugh
ter, Avice, of the famous Bereton s
necklace.
The Phantom uses Blaisdell's card I
to introduce himself to Bereton and
his week-end guests as a central office
man sent to guard the jewels. Among
the persons present are Bereton, his a
daughter, Avice; prospective son-in- d
law, Captain Broome; his son, Bertie,
and Bertie's friend, Dr. Ratcliffe. Far- l
rell feels he has seen Ratcliffe some
where before, and that he may have 'I
to reckon with him. And then his
plans are disturbed because 'he finds
himself falling in love with the beau
tiful Avice. Indeed, for love of I
Avice, Farrell does not take the jew- '
els when he has a chance.
But if Farrell has missed his oppor- C
tunity, Dr. Ratcliffe has not. He has
aJ hold over Bertie for a lot of gam- a
bling debts, and the boy is aiding him I
to steal his sister's jewels.
The necklace suddenly disappears.
Ratcliffe has taken it. He unstrings
e.rels d hides them with the
clue case.
Then the Phantom acts out his as
samed part of detective. He searches
everyone, including the doctor, but
can find Nothing. The doctor pre
pares to depart "to attend a patient
in the city who is very low." He goes
to the station unmolested. The Phan
tom suspects Bertie. He questions
him, and bit by bit Bertie tells how
Ratcliffe threatened him and how he
helped him steal the jewels.
Making Bertie pretend illness, Far
rell goes in a racing car to the station
to bring back Dr. Ratcliffe. He re
fuses to return. Farrell makes him
come at the point of a gun. Without
the doctor finding it out he removes
the pearls and the clasp from the vials
and, after Bertie has been treated,
lets the doctor go on his way, first,
however, making him give up the pa
pers with which he has threatened
Bertie. These papers are destroyed.
The Phantom reassembles the neck
lace, and by more strategy he places it
inside of Bereton's waistcoat and sees
that it is found in presence of the
company. Scarcely has he finished re
ceiving the congratulations of the
guests when the real Blaisdell of the
central office, who has trailed Farrell
to the place, enters to tell Bereton
who the Phantom really is.
How the Phantom makes his escape
is one of the most thrilling moments
in the picture.
e --- the Sierras."
Mae Marsh and Robert Harron are
starred in the supremely interesting
Triangle production, "The Wild Girl
of the Sierras," which will be the Sun
day offering at the Gem.
Jim Hamilton, one of the first to
join the rush to California, in the
days of '49, locates a mine in the Sier
ras. It turns out to be a failure, how
ever, so he starts off to find a new lo
cation, leaving his wife and infant
daughter in the care of friends in the
camp. During his absence a band of
£jdians swoops down on the place,
killing everyone save the little girl,
who miraculously escapes. Hamilton
concludes, however, that she must
have been carried off by Indians, and
goes his way.
Fifteen years later, Hamilton has
become a gentleman gambler. He
thinks of his old mine and concludes
it would be a good plan to sell it to
some tenderfoot. This tenderfoot
chances to be a young man from the
-eas b Jordan by name. He con
r company Hamilton and his
Sin mpanion, Moll, to examine
dW erty.
the way to the mine, Bob shoots
at he believes to be a deer. His
Sarry proves to be a singularly at
tractive girl, dressed in leaves and
feathers, able to utter noises like the
' wild beasts of the forest, but quite in
capable of understanding English.
She is taken into the party, and soon
becomes imbued with a doglike devo
tion to Bob, who has been kind to her.
Jordan soon discovers that the mine
is no good, and refuses to buy it. But
Hamilton, who is desperate, deter
mines to get the money at the point
of a gun. The wild girl in the mean
time has observed how much trouble
there is about Bob's money belt, sc
she takes it and buries it. Bob, oa
course, cannot fnd it even wher
threatened, so suggests Moll maJ
have taken it. As Moll at the mo
ment is eloping with another man
Ramilton believes this, and goes hij
way. The wild girl brings the moneyI
belt back to Bob; and then she finds
for the first time that life is really
worth living.
"The Deserter."
A steep cliffside of rock and sandy
earth, 70 feet high; two men on a
horse, plunging over its brink, and
rolling helter-skelter to the bottom
that's the big thriller in "The Desert
er," stirring Triangle feature in which
Charles Ray will be seen at the Gem
next Saturday. It is said to be the
most daring piece of neck-risking
temerity ever staged. The spectator
sees Ray riding for life ahead of an
Indian in hot pursuit, in a mountain
ous region, supposed to be near a
western army post where the scenes
of the play are laid. Both pursuer
and pursued exhaust their ammuni
tion. The Indian rides alongside Ray
and makes a flying leap from his horse
to that ridden by the young Triangle
star. They fight in the saddle, and
the horse, frightened, makes a mis
step and goes over the cliff.
The horse travels on his back most
of the way, with his legs waving wilk:
ly in the air. The men turn somer
saults, slide, roll and tumble, till they
hit level ground at the bottom. The
Indian is supposed, in the picture, to
have been killed by his wounds and
the plunge down the precipice. Later
in the story, Ray dies.
"No wonder," said an outsider who
saw an early showing of the film.
"That fall was enough to kill even a
moving picture actor."
Next Week's Bill at the Grand. n
Sunday-"The Evil Women Do," it
nd a two-reel Charlie Chaplin come- T
ly, "Work." .
Monday-Mae Murray in "Sweet ft
Kitty Bellairs." it
Tuesday-Virginia Pearson in "A w
'ortured Heart." a
Wednesday - Peggy Hyland in G
'Saints and Sinners." ii
Thursday-Wallace Reid and Cleo a
Ridgely in "The House of the Golden 0
Windows." r
Friday-Anita Stewart in "The F
Combat."
Saturday-Eighth episode of "Peg S
o' the Ring," cartoon, comedy, and u
Pathe News. p
"The Evil Women Do." b
A well bred and beautiful girl ob- 1
jects to her father marrying, as his d
"i'"8'ee; ' Parisiani a dventu s.s:s
the senile old Count Handry is ob
durate, however, marries the woman
and in the end loses his fortune. That
is not all, for the adventuress so de
means herself, with others of her t
kind, that the foolish old man near
ly makes matters worse by taking his f
own life. Meanwhile his daughter,
driven to desperation by the domina
tion of the sinful wife, leaves home
and comes close to being wrecked on
the rocks of adversity.
How all things are set right, even
to the visitation of retribution upon
the iniquitous woman, will be made
clear at the Grand Theatre tomorrow, I
when "The Evil Women Do" will be
presented as a Bluebird photoplay
with Elsie Jane Wilson playing the
adventuress; Francelia Billington the
grievously distressed heroine, and Ru
pert Julian the foolish old man who
was overcome by woman's wiles.
Based upon Emil Gaboriau's fa
mous detective story, "The Clique of
Gold," the entertaining qualities of
"The Evil Women Do" is developed in
stirring situations, gripping episodes,
and faithful portrayals of characters
in Parisian life.
"Sweet Kitty Bellairs."
This feature, which will be the Mon
day offering at the Grand, comes up
to the expectations the public nowa
days entertain when a Lasky produc
tion is on the program. "Sweet Kit
ty Bellairs" is a charming story told
about interesting people who lived in
a picturesque age. Mae Murray, the
star of the play, finds the part of a
very beautiful and lively girl much to
her taste. Miss Murray makes a dain
ty, lovable Kitty Bellairs; she is, as
the French put it, "tres femme." Her
girlish graces, her innocent witchery,
her sweet roguishness are bound to
captivate every audience. The young
people will be delighted beyond ?ea
sure, of course, but Miss Murray's
rendition of the coquettish little beau
ty will win smiles from the males and
females of a tougher age.
The ever-conscientious efforts of
the art director, Alfred Buckland, in
beautifying pictures and choosing the
best possible settings indoors and out
doors, are very much in evidence in
this delightful feature. There are a
variety of those pretty and novel
lighting effects which help to charac
terize the Lasky school of motion pic
ture art. Altogether "Sweet Kitty
Bellairs" is likely to go to the top of
the ladder of Lasky film plays.
"A Tortured Heart."
A dramatic story of the evils of vil
lage gossip and a woman's struggle
for happiness is told in the William
Fox film production, "A Tortured
Heart," which comes to the Grand
WHY YOU SHOULD BANK WITH US
WE GROW STRONGER EVERY DAY. BANK WITH US AND
WE'LL HELP YOU DO LIKEWISE.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS, AND WILL MAKE IT A
PLEASURE FOR YOU TO HAVE YOUR ACCOUNT WITH US.
THE SMALL DEPOSITOR RECEIVES THE SAME COURTEOUS
TREATMENT AS THE LARGE ONE.
COMMERCIAL AND SAVINGS BANK
DONALDSONVILLE, LA
Tuesday. Rev. Joseph LorimW pas
tor of an old-fashioned southern
church, finds a bundle on the porch of
his home. Picking it up, he discovers
that it contains a girl baby. Impervi
ous to the criticism of the spinsters
of the little town, the minister insists
upon keeping the child, who grows up
to be a charming young woman. In
all ]Ie parish there is only one per
son Tvho looks upon the minister's act
with sympathy. This is Lucille D
rell, wealthy and unmarried, who -
fers her services and her fortune that
the foundling might be brought up in
an atmosphere of refinement. From
this point the play unfolds its tale of
the evils of gossip and uncharitable
ness, and all that these unwholesome
qualities bring in "heart torture."
Virginia Pearson, the star, is a
noted beauty of the southland, and
her interpretation of the part of Lu
cille Darrell is done with especial feel
ing. As the blackmailing villain of
the story is found Stuart Holmes. He
plays the part dis
guised gambler and K, woos
the pretty foundling, Marjorie Lori
more, impersonated by Marian Sway
ne. Stephen Grattan is seen as the
kindly minister, and Fuller Mellish
delineates the role of Samuel Sum
mers, Rev. Lorimore's faithful sexton:
and servant.
re
"Saints and Sinners." fie
Peggy Hyland, the beautiful little ho
English actress, makes her premier to
American appearance as a film star he
in a thrilling picturization of the not- co
ed dramatic success, "Saints and Sin- tu
ners," which the Grand announces as to
its feature attraction for Wednesday. la
The early scenes of the play are laid m
in the picturesque village of Steeple- til
ford. Here Letty Fletcher, a bewitch- PC
ing little country maid, lives happily cc
with her father, Rev. Jacob Fletcher, fa
and his spinster housekeeper, Lydia. lii
George Kingmill, a young farmer, is
in love with Letty, but the latter is ol
attracted to Captain Fanshawe, a man h,
of wordly experience and doubtful cc
reputation. The minister, aware of so
Fanshawe's character, persuades Let- tt
ty to refrain from seeing him again. o0
She complies with her father's wishes ne
until the day of the annual church v<
picnic, when Fanshawe, through the
medium of his valet, summons her to
bid him farewell, as he is going to
leave Steepleford forever. He in- a
duces her to accept his invitation for
a; short roothe -ir:- Likek.most a
farewell affairs of this tender nature, S
the hours fly by quickly, and before tl
Letty realizes the time the oth
er picnickers have departed. Fan
shawe offers to take her home by ,
train, but craftily purchases tickets V
for New York instead of for Steeple- 0
ford. h
Among the passengers on the train S
is a certain Samuel Hoggard, who
bears a deep-rooted hatred toward b
Rev. Fletcher because of the latter's
refusal to join Hoggard in an un
scrupulous transaction. This indivi
dual forms his own version of Letty's
presence on the train with Fanshawe
at her side.
From this point Letty is placed in
circumstances more trying even than
those previously described. But in t
the end the photoplay satisfactorily e
terminates the unpleasant episodes,
from which the pitiful little heroine
emerges with even a greater purity of
soul and a far broader understanding
and sympathy than she possessed be
fore the inception of her reckless ro
mance.
"The Combat."
The old situation of sacrificing a
daughter on the matrimonial altar
for the further maintenance of po
p sition and wealth is used with good
effect in "The Combat," five-part j
Vitagraph Blue Ribbon feat
which Anita Seell
d chosen cast will at the Grand
n next Friday. There are two genuine
e thrills in the production that will
a prove entertaining: the first occurring
o when the train on which Graydon
- Burton was to have come east is
s wrecked, and the second when, a
r prisoner of justice, he crashes through
T, the window of the courtroom, mounts
o a tethered horse and rides to free
g dom, with the mounted police in pur
s- suit. The melodramatic element is
's strong without being overdone, and
1- the psychology of the play rings true.
d Anita Stewart, as Muriel Flemin
daughter of a bankrupt widow and in
)f secretthe wife of a young westerner
n upon Whom her mother frowned, car
Le ries the role in her usual intelligent
t- manner. The attitude of Muriel to
n ward her second husband, whom she
a has married at the request of her
el mother in the belief that her first
c- husband is dead, has been nicely
c- thought out and delineated. An ex
Ly cellent piece of double exposure work
)f wholly worthy of mention occurs in
the battle of conscience when the
governor, husband of Muriel, fights
off his desire to put to death Burton,
il- his wife's first husband, on a false ac
lo cusation.
ed When in need of stationery get in
ad touch with The Chief. Phone 84.
ES FOR WOItN.
hern States Woman Suffrage
Conference.
417 Camp Stre., New Orleans.
Bid for Husband.
By the statute North Carolina,
convicts are hire to bidders for a
desired period. T wages earned re
vert to the state.. J. W. Slaughter,
convicted of murder, was hired out
by the Rockingharncommissioners for
a term of two yea to A. L. Flinch, a
tobacco planter. .he commissioners
took most of the "ay to reach a de
cision. Mrs. Slaujhter had put in a
bid for her hush nd also, but the
board finally decl to reject her of
fer because, if tlaccepted, Slaugh
ter would be livii t home while un
dergoing the pen imposed.
Meanwhile M Slaughter, who
vainly endeavore hire the services
of her husband, pies a unique po
litical erasement. he state constitu
tion refuses her vote, marriage
makes her subject .o her convict hus
band, and the courts deprive her of
the man who is supposed to represent
her. IHow much Fetter to give her
her own vote, and then nothing but
h.. own transgres~ions could prevent
her from the democratic right of
every decent Amepcan, a voice in
democracy.
Women an' Farms.
"The woman on he farm is a most
important factor ii agriculture. Her
domesjc work un 4ubtedly hasoa di
rect bedit on t1; effliesl of the
field workers; heir handling of the
home and its surrowdings contributes
to the cash intake( and, in addition,
hers is largely the responsibility for
contributing the sodial and other fea
tures which make; farni life satisfac
tory and pleasurable. On her rests
largely the moral arld mental develop
ment of the childreIn, and on her at
titude depends in preat part the im
portant question o whether the suc
ceeding generation! will continue to
farm or will seelt he allurement of
life in the cities."
With all the im rtance and value
of woman's agr, tural work, she
has not the vote t ring about better
conditions in her. arm life. The
schools, good roas bridges and all
the country necesi es are denied her
opinion and judgm t. Rural politics
need adjustment i) include women's
votes.
Woman Manhries a Bank.
Miss Pearl Bea- s is manager of
a bank.in Jeffersof.Jo: S. D., and is
akiug a succG a_$ehe firt held
a position in the Sioux City Trust and
Savings Bank and made good. Then
the State Bank of Jefferson needed a
manager and the directors offered the
position to Miss Beavers. They grow
mighty clever women in the west.
Wonder if it is the developing power
of freedom? All the western states
have given the vote to women and
South Dakota men will have a chance
to enfranchise their women in Novem
ber.
f*.**4+++.*+.4++++,+++.4.. ish
S. V. I. HAPPENINGS. f
By A. LANDRY. zfo
+++++++ ++++++++++++++++ Th
A literary society was organized in in1
the senior class-room Sept. 15, 1916, lar
and the following officers were elect- Sh
ed: President, Mattie Comstock; vice na
president, Dolores Mattingly; secre- the
tary, Cecile Truxillo; sergeants-at- pe
arms, Mildred Werner, Della Truxillo, no
Nita Poche, Agnes Landry. To con- jol
stitute the program committee, Sadie be
Schaff, Edith Daigle, Elsie Schroeder
and Edjl.leanchard weraPpginted. cil
The firt regular meeting of the so- ne
ciety was held Oct. 20, when the fol- co
lowing program was rendered: su
Vocal solo, Ethel Park. ti(
Debate, "Resolved, that term exam
inations should be abolished." Af- tr
firmative-H. Cire, N. Poche, C. sg
Marsala. Negative-E. Veron, L. i
Landry, L. Erato. st
Instrumental solo, P. Landry. $1
Recitation, M. Comstock. til
Quotation contest-Side A, F. Gau- ar
din, R. Schexnaydre, H. Ohlmeyer. d(
Side B, S. Schaff, M. Werner, A. Lan- U'
dry.
Editor's paper, E. Schroeder. tC
Critic, Sister Clementine. c<
The quotation contest was won by st
Side B. ti
The debate was decided in favor a]
of the affirmative, Father Chambon, P.
Sister Catharine and Sister Bertrand d
being the judges.
The next meeting will be held Nov
3. Anyone who would like to witness r
the program is welcome.
Our beloved Sister Catharine, who b
had been away for a few weeks, c
returned Saturday before last, ac- u
companied by Sister Bertrand, who
teaches the first and second grades. c
She was welcomed by the sisters and d
children of St. Vincent's Institute,
and is loved by all. i
Statement of Ownership, Manage
ment, Etc.
In conformity with the require
ments of an act of congress, The
Chief publishes herewith a sworn
statement of its ownership, manage
ment, etc., as furnished in duplicate
I to the loOl postmaster und9 date of
Oct. 21, 1916:
Editor-G. D. Bentley.
Managig editor-G. D. &ntley.
BusineW managers-Von'Lotten &
Bentley, Donaldsonville, La.
Owners-Jas. Von Lotten and G.
D. Bentley.
Known bondholders, mortgagees
,and other security holders, holding
one per cent or more of total amount
of bonds, mortgages or other se
curities--Mergenthaler Linotype Co.,
New York City.
Signed: G. D. NTLEY.
Sworn to subs ldl before me
this 21st day of October, 1916.
B. J. VEGA, Notary Public.
Let The Chief do your printing.
- Quality and prices right. Phone 84.
~L ~£
FAVORS ALL THE AMEN.i ENTS
Former Speaker Thomas Explains and Suppo ts Proposed
Changes in Louisiana Constitution---Srongly Ap
proves Creation of State Board of Affrs, Assuring
Equalization of Assessments and Abolishment of Log
Rolling.
Hon. L. E. Thomas of Shreveport,
speaker of the Louisiana house of
representatives from 1912 to 1916,
and present chairman of the Demo
cratic state central committee, shds
e Chief a copy of an address he has
wed to the people of this state ex
plaining and advocating the adoption
of the eighteen constitutional amend
ments which are to be voted on at the
election of November 7. Mr. Thom
as numbers the measures in the order
of their appearance on the ballot, and
we cheerfully accord space to the fol
lowing synopsis of his address, which
is commended to our readers as
worthy of their best attention and
calmest consideration. He says:
I believe a brief elucidation of each
amendment will be appreciated by the
average vote ay not be al
toge ck on these import
a a when he comes to cast his
,allot. I believe every true Louisianian
desires to vote for what he honestly
believes to be for the best interest of
his state and not otherwise, and if he
makes any mistake it is an error of his
head and not his heart.
It is a little unfortunate tnat so
many amendments are to be submit- cial
led at the same time. It is a faulty wise
system, and I really believe we should kill
never have more than five proposi- the
lions submitted at one time, and even of
Less would be better. A practice has and
grown up of making too much legisla- to
tion constitutional, rather than legis- isti
lative, and every time a change is de- the
sired an amendment becomes neces- izat
sary. An example in point is the Con- ant
federate veteran pension amendment, tha
which has already been amended at be
least four different times, whereas, if bee
only the levying of the tax was made ist
constitutional and the other features bec
left to the general assembly, much mu
needless cost and expense might have big
been saved. Other similar cases could oth
be cited. mel
Amendment No. 1 is to fund the par
floating debt of the city of New Orle- rat
ans and its school board and to place fise
them on a cash basis and prohibit fu- to
ture anticipation of revenues. Now sta
is a good time to float such bonds, par
when money is plentiful, and as it ch.
only affects the, people of New Orle- ses
reason why we should n su'pport the he
measure.
Amendment No. 2 extends the op- pr<
eration of the juvenile court to. the to
country towns, whereas it is now con- wa
fined to the cities. This is a good mea- pre
sure. Juvenile offenders should not pa
be sent to the penitentiary, but to the aff
reformatories instead, and some ef- le
fort should be made to reclaim then.
and convert them into good citizens.
That is one of the essential duties of }
the state.
Amendment No. 3 authorizes par- rip
ishes and cities to levy special taxes ou
for certain improvements not author
ized under the present constitution. no
This has special reference to subsidiz- s
ing a steamboat or barge line and was
largely passed in the interest of
Shreveport and the restoration of in'
navigation on Red river. None of
these special taxes can exceed 5 mills
per year, nor run more than 10 years,
nor be imposed at all except by ma- be
jority vote of tax payers in both num
ber and value of property.
Amendment No. 4 authorizes the
city of New Orleans to bridge or tun
nel the Mississippi river. No one
could seriously object to that, I am
sure, as no special or increased taxa- pI
tion is involved.
Amendment No. 5 places the dis
trict attorney of New Orleans on a
salary basis and abolishes fees, and
saving and does not cost the ti
state ink the salary, to
$10,000, rather la , but at the same
time it is much less than is now paid,
and if the amendment should be voted ti
down we would continue the present ;
undesirable status.
Amendment No. 6 permits women
to serve on the various educational,
correctional and charity boards of the
state and is strongly supported by
the good women of the state. They
C are certainly competent for these
places, and this is a step in the right i
i direction.
Amendment No. 7 gives the Con- t
derate veterans all the money de- 1
s rived from the pension tax and au
thorizes an increase of their peBions
o to $25 per month as the funds be
come available for this purpose. Let
us support it heartily.
o Amendment No. 8 authorizes the
. city of Shreveport to fund its floating
d debt into bonds. An amendment was
necessary on account of the city hav
ing already voted all the taxes per
missible under present laws. No oth
. er part of the state is interested ex
cept Shreveport.
Amendment No. 9 amplifies the au
1e thority of the legislature in regard to
harbor and other improvements and
e- was devised for the benefit of Lake
Charles primarily. I see no reason
able objection to the proposition.
Amendment No. 10 provides for
funding the debt of the penitentiary
board to the amount of $400,000 at a
& rate not exceeding 5 per cent interest.
I believe these obligations can now be
G. funded at 41h per cent interest at
par. The board is paying from 6 to 8
per cent on its floating debt, and if
Sthis amendment is adopted it can eas
nt ily save from $10,000 to $12,000 per
e- year in interest alone. This will also
o, put the board on practically a cash
basis, whereas it is now paying high
prices for everything it buys because
re it is not able to pay cash. The adop
tion of this amendment is almost im
perative if the present state admin
istration is to be permitted to solve
the difficulties which it inherited from
.the old board. I' sincerely hope thai
everyone will heartily support this cr
much-needed amendment, which is dc
in the interest of ecdnomy and sound we
finance.
Amendment No. k places officials in
upon a salary basis and if defeated L+
the state and parishes will continue to to
pay the exorbitant fees that were so m
much complained of in the recent
campaign. Governor Pleasant's ad- rc
ministration is trying to redeem the of
pledges made the people in that cam- t
paign and one of them is that offi- tl
cials be placed on a salary basis. An d
insidious effort may be made in cer- t
tain quarters to defeat this reform, n'
but without its adoption the legisla
tion carrying it into effect falls with
it and you will have-rno relief for a
!ong time to comea Do not fail to W
vote for amendmentu o. 11.
Amendment No. 12 is the one
abolishing the state board of ap
praisement and also. the state board i
of equalization and in lieu thereof p
creating the state 'ard of affairs.
The cost of this net board will be
very little more thh the two old °
boards which are abolished. This si
is the measure which certain spe- P
cial interests, politicql and other- e'
wise, are sharpening their knives to n
kill and are endeav.oing to becloud 3
the issue and befuddle the minds
of the people. By this amendment s
and the enabling act carrying it in
to effect, the present state admin
istration seeks to ~gve the people
the reform demanded in the equal- -
ization of taxes. under the pres
ant system the state valuation and
that of the parishes and cities must
be the same. The efect of this has
been that gross inequalities ex
ist all over the state. in assessments.
because in some parishes and
municipalities the local taxes are so
high for roads, schools, streets and
other purposes that if their assess
ments were put on thib basis of other
parishes that have n such high local 1
rates, it would amountt to almost con
fiscation. This amendment proposes
to untie the valuationriof property for
state purposes from -the valuation for
parish and local pur s. It does not r
change the situationt far as the as
sessor is concerneld , his election or
he canno ass. p for T
than 25 per cent of the vlue of the
- property, which is surely low enough i
to satisfy the most penurious "tight
wad." In this way if the state board
Sproceeds to equalize the values in the
t parishes for state purposes it will not
e affect your local assessment in the
least, nor will it increase taxation.
The present status is not disturbed.
I for one do not believe we need to
raise more taxes on the people for the
state government. If we have the
right kind of economy practiced in
our various institutions, we can get
along satisfactorily, though perhaps
not as elegantly and sumptuously as
some states that have no bonded debt.
However, equalization can be brought
about in this way without in the least
increasing the burdens upon the peo
ule who are already paying all the tax
es they should. The state board of
affairs will investigate the actual
needs of each state institution long
before the legislature convenes and
1fx its allotments upon a business ba
sis. and there will be no log rolling for
Sappropriations at the legislature and
no general appropriation bill exceed
e ng the revenues.
n Demand has been made that we
" place our affairs on a budget basis,
and this is the way to do it. Gover
n- or Pleasant is trying to redeem the
a pledge maae the people in regard to
reforrmang our assessment system, and
ie this workable plan has been submit
' ter, for your thoughtful consideration
e nd .should receive your endorsement.
d, I do not propose to criticize the imn
ed tives of those who expect to fight this
at amendment, but would only ask you
to see who they are, and how they
en stand toward the present Democratic
a, administration that is trying to make
he good and then draw your own conclu
sy lions.
ey Amendment No. 13 affects New Or
.se leans alone and provides for the build
;ht ing of a sea-wall and good road along
Lake Pontchartrain. I believe thai
n- this could have been done by a legis
e- lative act and that the amendmenl
-was not altogether necessary. How
ns ever, we should support this improve
be- ment.
hoe Bargain
Get shoes for yourself, your wife
your whole family, at the inside
price. Get stylish shoes, shoes
that fit,shoes thatwear. Buythem
by mail-save retailer's profits.
Money in Your Pocket
We buy in immense quantities,
cutout jobber's and middleman's
profits--sell to you direct. We
are satisfied to get many orders
-at smaller profil-you get the
difference. Once you buy you
will see that this is so. You run
no risk--money back if snot satisfied.
Big Catalok fr-e
B Our beautiful, big ;i li catalog
has hundreds of shoes pictured
and described. It's a moncysaver.
It will be sent upon request.
r FALCOnI SHOE CO.
~ Deb t New1 Oraleas
h SPECIAL. OFFER-lat 6C93.
h. Mrs's Gas Metal Tip. Blacher,
e To l To., MadimTeo .
e 59
at
Amendment No. 14 requires rail
roads to maintain general offices in
this state. It ought to be adopted.
Amendment No. 15 authorizes the
tax payers of parishes and cities to
vote a special tax not exceeding on
mill for fairs and to pay premiums on
agricultural and other exhibits.
will help out your various parish fa
which are very beneficial and ought
to be encouraged.
Amendment No. 16 is a local mea
sure affecting New Orleans, placing
the judicial expense fund under con
trol of the civil district judges and in
creasing their salaries one thousand
dollars per annum for doing this
work.
Amendlgent No. 17 exempts seago
ing vesself whose domiciles are in
Louisiana from taxation, and is in
tended to help build up the merchant *
marine.
Amendment No. 18 permits the rail
roads to give free transportation to
officers and employees of the agricul
tural department when engaged in
their official work of agricultural
demonstration, thus saving the state
the cost of this transportation. I see
no objection to the proposition.
If these amendments are ratified
the state administration will be in a
position to make further progress to
ward redeeming the pledges made you
prior to the election.
that amendment No.
the abolition of the boards of equal
ization and appraisement will be the
f principal one attacked by the opposi
tion, yet Hon. Percy Saint and all the
Progressives in the general assembly
voted for the measure and openly
stated that it was one of the best
pieces of progressive legislation offer
ed to the people. They certainly had
no selfish interest in making such a
statement, but acted as patriots, do
s ing what they honestly believed to be
t best for the state of Louisiana. We
- should be actuated by like motives
and cheerfully support Governor
Pleasant's administration it its earn
est effort to remedy some of the exist
ing conditions in our beloved state.
BED-TIME STORIES
By Master Bernard Lemann
(Exactly as written)
Why it Rains.
It was summer. The night fairies
left their cradle, which was the half
moon, to play in the haunted forest.
Every night when the chimes rang
the midnight hour, all the immortals
in Jamestown would come out for a
merry frolic in and out of the trees.
After playing awhile they would sit
down and talk of all the pe that
Soon the sun began to peep from
behind the Blue Ridge Mountains of
good old Virginia, which the English
named in honor of Elizabeth, the vir
gin queen. The immortals left the
haunted forest.
"Wake up, Uncle Jim," said little
Mary to James Berkeshire, one of the
men Sir Walter Raleigh had brought
over from England to found a colony.
"Wake up, the sun is high over the
tree tops."
"Huh!" said Uncle Jim and turned
over and went back to sleep.
Mary tickled him with a feather.
Rubbing his eyes and gaping, he
slowly stepped out of bed and dressed.
"t I am going with the other men,"
st aid Uncle Jim. "Do not leave the
- place and lock the door so that the
hostile Indians cannot harm you."
f "I'll be careful," said Mary, as
1 Uncle-Jim left the house.
Mary locked the door and sat down
d with her knitting. In those days
books were too expensive for Uncle
r Jim to buy, but Mary was just as con
d tent without them.
She knitted all day long until the
light died away.
,e "Why, it's getting dark," she ex
claimed. "And Uncle Jim is Snot
r- home yet."
Soon the fairies' cradle shone, a
: glimmering light on the floor of the
d house. "The moon is out and still he
t- has not come," she said.
At last the chimes •
t. night fairies dese e.
~. ladder, while the forest fairies ca
is from out the bushes.
U Mary began to cry. She cried all
W night and when the fairies went back
ic to the sky, they took her with them.
ke They made her an immortal and gave .
u- her everything she wished, but still
she cried.
r- The next time it rains I suppose you
!d- wiil think of the story I have told you
ng and say, "When will she ever stop
iat crying?"
is
tnt There have been no more attaeks_
w- upon vessels off the United States
re- coast nee the sensational achieve
ment of the audacious German sub
- mersible U-53 in destroying six ships
near Nantucket, Mass., on the 8th of
October. Whether the submarine has
gone back to Europe or will turn up
at some other point on this side of the
ocean and endeavor to repeat its re
cent feat is unknown. It transpires
that the British steamship Kingston
or Kingstonian was not attac as
reported, and reached po
Nothing has yet developed
cate that the rules of inte
warfare were disregarded or ne
rights violated by the German
marine, but it has been suggested
a continuance of such operations
might raise the question as to wheth
er a virtual blockade of the ports of
the United States, a neutral nation,
is not being effected.
Despondency.
When you feel discouraged and
despondent do not give up, but take
a dose of Chamberlain's Tablets and
you are almost certain to feel all
right within a day or two. De
Z. spondency is very often due to indi
hr, gestion and biliousness, for which
these tablets are especially valuable.
Obtainable everywhere.--(Adv.)
If you believe in helping those who
halp you it's your duty to buy at
home.
