If i
K II 10.25, copper, 527.5028.00. T J Asi . i r Today; prt,y Cloudy, Cooler In J 'M
ill - k ' . Northwest Portion. 18 ;H
III ' V FEARLESS, INDEPENd'eot, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. I'l
j !!rty"IXth YearN0- 269- ' Pr" Cenu. OGDEN CFIT,, WAHrSATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 28, 1916. 7 Entered a, Second.C,a Matter at the Postofflce, oflde, Utah. " H
Teutonic Drive in Rumania
I Continues; German Generals
Still Making Rapid Advance
I Russians on Eve of Great
Offensive in Galicia
i and Poland,
i
5 The Teutonic drive against Rumania
continues with little diminished, veloc-
ity, new successes for both Field Mar-
I . shal von Mackensen and General von
Falkenhayn being announced. Hirso-
4 va, on the Danube, was occupied by
the Bulgarians. Yesterday's official
4 .' statements reported Field Marshal
von Mackensen's advanced forces to
have reached this district, whence
their line stretches across Dobrudja,
40 to 60 miles north of the Constanza
; Tchernavoda railway, to Casapkeul,
on the Black sea. side.
According to unofficial reports from
Petrograd a notable advance has been
made by the Austro-German forces
I invading Rumania from the north.
) General von Falkenhayn's forces are
now said to hav reached Campulung,
i 20 miles south of the Rumanian fron-
Itler. From Campulung, the plain
stretches away toward Bucharest, SO
miles -distant.
Russia on Eve of Great Offensive.
i Supposedly in an effort to aid the
i, hard pressed Rumanians, the Russians
I are reported to be on the eve of a I
great offensive in Galicia and Poland.
; This report comes to Rome from Ger
l man sources, says a wireless despatch
from the Italian capital .
The French are pressing their of
fensive in the Verdun region and, ac
cording to Paris, have captured in a
hand grenade attack the quarry north
east of Fort Douaumont Berlin de-
clares several French attacks yester
i L day in the Douaumont region and else
J where along the line of the new,
I French advance were sanguinarily re
pulsed. '
On the Somme Berlin announces
the repulse of strong attacks by both
the British and French yesterday in
the Guedecourt-Les Bouefs and Morval
regions north of the Somme.
Russians Renew Attacks.
3 Berlin, Oct 2S. By wireless to Say
fi ville.J The Russians have renewc"
fl their attacks on the Austro-Germai
lines west of Lutsk in Volyynia, tb
'j war office announced today, deliverin
an assault yesterday after two day.
: artillery preparation in the vicinity of
Saturze. The attack, according to the
1 official statement, failed completely
i with heavy losses to the Russians.
:; , The statement reads:
; "Front of Prince Leopold: The Rus-
5 , slans, after two days artillery prepara
tion in the sector west of Lutsk, at-
tack yesterday near Zaturze. The at
tack failed completely with heavy
J losses to the enemy."
Teutonic Troops Win.
Berlin, Oct, 2S. By wireless to Say
ville. Teutonic troops have won a vic
tory In the Dorna Watra region, near
the Junction point of the frontiers!
of Bukowlna, Transylvania and Ru-
mania, according to today's official
4 war office announcement. Teutonic
i forces captured several heights from
the Russians at the point of the bay
onet and took more than 500 pris
oners. On the northern frontier of Rumania
Austro-German forces captured from
the Rumanians another height In the
region south of Kronstadt, and extend
ed their advance in the Partzuga
The official statement follows:
"Front of Archduke Charles Fran
cis: On both sides of Dorna Watra
Austro-Hungarlan troops entered Rus
sian positions capturing several
heights at the point of the bayonet
and brought In eight officers and more
than 500 men as prisoners.
"Transylvanian eastern front:
Fighting in the frontier valleys con
tinues. South of Kronstadt our allied
troops took a Rumanian position on a
height by a surprise attack and ex
tended their success by sharp press
ure to the vallej' of Partzuga. Other
"wise that situation is not essentially
changed."
Teuton-Bulgar-Turkish forces under
command of Field Marshal von Mack
enBen, continue their pursuit of the
Russian and Rumanian armies in
northern Dobrudja, says the official
statement issued at German army
headquarters today. The forces of
the central powers and their allies
are meeting with little resistance, it
is declared. Five hundred isolated
Boldlers have been taken prisoner and
several munition columns and other
'ar material have been captured.
Teutonic Pressure Stops.
London, Oct, 28. Noon. Teutonic
preseure against the Rumanians and
Russians In Transylvania appears to
1R .Good Music
have stopped definitely, says a tele
gram received by the Wiresless Press
today from Bucharest.
The Rumanians and Russians, ac
cording to the message, are taking
the initiative in the operations in this
field. It Is estimated by Rumanian
military officials that the losses of
the Austro-Germans have reached a
total of 80,000.
Renewed Infantry Engagements.
Berlin, Oct. 28. By wireless to Say
ville. In fantry engagements between
the Anglo-French and German forces
on the north bank of the Somme river
began anew yesterday, says the offi
cial statement issued today by the
German army headquarters staff.
Preceded by a strong artilleryy prep
aration, the statement adds, the Brit
ish troops attacked across the line of
Guedecourt and Les Boeufs while the
French moved forward in the district
of Morval. The Anglo-French attacks
wer repulsed by artillery and ma
chine gun fire and northeast of Morval
they were driven back by the Germans
after bayonet fighting. All the Ger
man positions were completely main
tained, the anouncement declares.
On the east bank of the river Meuse
north of Verdun there were renewed
heavy engagements which were suc-j
cessful for the Germans, according to
the German headquarters. French
forces attacked from Thiamont wood;
and on both sides of Fort Douaumont j
and In the Fumln wood. All the at-i
tacks are said to have been broken
down in front of the German posi-,
Hons with heavy losses to the French,
The statement reads:
"On the north bank of the Somme
yesterday infantry engagements began
anew. Preceded by strong artillery
preparation, the English attacked
across the line of Guedecourt-Les
Bouefs and the French attacked in the
district of Morval in the evening
hours.
i "Our troops repulsed the allied ene
mies by artillery and machine gun fire
and northeast of Morval also with the
bayonet- Our positions were com
pletely maintained.
"On the east bank of the river
Meuse heavy engagements alsawere
enewed and they were successfulfor
-s. After a violent artillery fife
trong French forces rushed from
"hiaumont wod and both sides of Fort
souaumont and in the Fumin wood to
ttack. All the attacks broke down
i front of our positions with' heavy
sses to the enemy."
French Cature Quarry.
Paris, Oct. 28. 12:40 a. m. French
forces in the region of Verdun last
night captured by the use of hand gre
nades the quarry held by the Germans
to the northeast of Fort Douaumont,
it was officially announced by the
French war department today. A
brisk artillery duel continues in the
region of Douaumont
On the Somme front last night the
statement adds, there was an inter
mittent artillery bombardment
Germans taunch Violent Attacks.
Petrograd. Oct 28, via London, 1:09
p. m. Austro-German forces launch
ed a series of violent attacks against
the Russian and Rumanian positions
on both banks of the river Bystritza
in the region of Dorna Watra yester
day, says tho official statement is
sued today by the Russian war of
fice, compelling the Russian advanced
posts to abandon two heights.
"Western (Russian) front: On the
whole front reconnaissances and an
exchange of fire are taking place.
"On both banks of the river By
stritza, in the region of Dorna Wat
ra, the enemy supported by his ar
tillery, launched a series of fierce at
tacks compelling our advanced post
to abandon two heights. The attacks
of the enemy south of this Teglon
were without success.
"Rumanian Transylvanian front:
Near Bran pass and in the Tirgulaj
and Jlul valleys fierce enemy attacks
continue.
"Dobrudja: No events of Importance
during October 27."
oo
BOMB DROPS ON
KAISERWECIAL
Engineer Killed, on Train
Carrying Emperor William,
v by Entente Aviator.
Paris. Oct 28, 5:10 a. m. A bomb
dropped by an aviator of tho entente
allies has killed the engineer driving
the train of Emperor William of Ger
many, according to information receiv
ed at Zurich, Switzerland.
Emperor William recently was re
ported to bo at Bapaume, on the
Somme front, personally overseeing
the preliminaries for a counter offen
sive for which the German troops
there were to have received strong
reinforcements.
Apparently during this visit he de
livered a brief speech to-the German
troops thanking them for the "heroic
manner" in which thoy had fought for
four months.
On Monday, last, the emperor was
in Berlin on a brief visit conferred
with the imperial chancellor and vis
ited the palace at Pottsdam, His
movements since then have not been
reported.
WILSON OUTLINES
FUTURE PROGRAM
Makes Motto- "Co-operation"
in Speech Before Delega
tions at Shadow Lawn.
MANY FROM NEW YORK
Woman Suffrage, Courts - of
Justice and Establishraent of
Permanent Peacer'
Discussed. ' -.,
Long Branch, N. J.,,Oct. 2S Mak.
ing his motto "co-operation,'' Presi
dent Wilson spoke here today !at the
principal meeting oP a series of -gath-,
eringsjn many states arranged by the
Democratic national committee Jn
J celebration of Wilson Day." The occa
sion was also "known as "Empire State
;Day" here, because delegations of or
jganization Democrats, Independents,
.Progressives and women from New
York Journeyed on special jralns from
(New York City and staCe to greet the
pjresident and assure Trim of their
support
The president spoke for .woman
suffrage, declared that "American
law has noj. kept pace with Amerl-'
can sentiment,"" and that "What was
legal was not to play a more impor
tant part in our thoughts and deter
minations than what is human and
right,'' outlined the legislative achieve
ments of his qdministratlon and
sketched broadly a program for the
future, including the making of
"courts of justice out of our courts
of law," and the establishment. of per
manent peace. 1 ;
Mr. Wilson's address "was delivered
to the largest .gathQ.rnsU3;Qt .'assem-.
bleu at Shadow Lawn to hear his
Saturday afternoon campaign ad
dresses. The president's address follows:
My Fellow Citizens: .
This is called "Wilson Day" only
because for six years, first as gover
nor of New Jersey and then as presi
dent of the United States, I have been
permitted to lead first a great state
and then a great national party along
the ways of progress and of enlarged
and rqpenerated life which our people
had so long sought and so long been
held back from by-the organized pow
er of selfish interest and because the
great honor has .fallen to me of being
chosen once more spokesman and rep
resentative of .the men who mean to
hold the country to these ways of
peace, humanity and progress. " It is
of these forces ihar'l'qhall speak and
not of myself, who ani merely their
servant
What are these forces? Whence do
they spring? What have they accom
plished, and what is their program
and purpose for;"'the future? It is
plain what they arel They are the
forces of humane, righteous and pa
triotic purpose which have sprung up
j in our day In the minds of those who
I perceive the shortcomings of the law
I as it has hardened in America and
who look forward with purpose and
conviction to a new age In which gov
ernment shall be indeed the sen-ant
of liberty and .not of. privilege. These
are men who perceive that American
law has not kept pace with American
sentiment; that ourlaw has been hold
ing us'rlgid and 'immovable, until
class has begun, in free America, to
be arrayed against class; until what
was legal has begun to play a more
Important part In our thoughts and
determinations than what is human
and right; and until America has be
gun to lag instead of lead in reconcil
ing what is with what ought to be.
A new age had dawned upon us
while those who were attempting to
lead, ub were stumbling along with
their headQ over their shoulders, In
tent upon preserving the conditions
of a day that Is gone. America had
changed and the whole world had
changed. Our commerce and indus
try had grown to such a bulk that
i tho domestic markets of which our
former leaders were always so solici
tous were glutted and we "were bound
unless we were to burst our jacket
to find a free outlet Into the markets
of the world. The time had come
when our commerce needed freedom
and would be throttled by further re
straints. We had acquired foreign
possessions, had been drawn into the
politics' of the world, had begun to
play a part which could not be played
by provincials but must be played by
citizens of the great world of nations.
And yet we- had not altered our policy
or our point of view. The great Eu
ropean war has served at least to
show us this one thing, that the world
Itself had changed; that it had be
come at once too big a world and too
little a world to submit its' destinies
to the hostile rivalries and "-ambitions
now of this and again of that member
of the great family of men;. too com
pact, too Intimate in its contacts, too
universal in its ways of intercourse,
to make it any longer possible to lim
it the effects of any nation's action to
a single, separate sphere where the
rest would be untouchod. An inevit
able partnership of interests has been
thrust upon the nations. They are
neighbors and must accomodate thelr
1
' BRITISH FIND HILL STREWN WITH THE
1 BONES OF BALKAN WAR; ERECT MONUMENT
Y - r.r ji '
v- R ...
This interesting photograph shows a British Tommy inspecting
monument erected by tho warriors of this war to the memory of thfl
martyrs of Europe's last war. This hill, which is strewn with bleached
bones, was a Bulgar position in the Balkan war. The British have erected
a white cross.
Contracts Let For the
Construction of Stock
Yards Across River
Contracts for construction ot the
first unit of the Ogden Union stock
yards have been awarded to James
Stewart & Co.. who are now building
the immense Ogden Packing and Pro
vision company addition. Other con
tracts for the yards will be awarded
in a short time, but the decision was
reached by the stockyards company
that the one unit should be immediate
ly started. The contract involves
about 550,000.
The grading for the yards, located
west of the Weber river and north i
of Wilson lane, was started several
days ago by the stockyards company
and the placing of cement for the
yard floors, together with building of
stock pens, sheds, offices and other
structures will commenco at once. The
construction company anticipates hav
ing this work so far advanced in a
few days that cold weather will not
Interfere with the completion of the
yards this year.
interests to one another, or else dis
turb the lives and. embarass the for
tunes of men everywhere. No won
ter that in such an age men In Ameri
ca should be cried awake and feel
once more, as they felt them in the
days when their great republic was
set up, the compulsions of humanity
and of justice!
These are the freshening winds
blowing out of the life of mankind ev
erywhere, that have brought on a now
day in American politics. We have
looked once more very critically at
our own laws and our own practices
and have set about to square them
with tho actual conditions of our life
and the life of the world.
Four years ago there were two par
ties in the field whose program was
conceived under the influence of these
great forces of progress and adjust
ment the Democratic party and the
Progressive party. This year there
is but one, the Democratic party. In
the presidential election of four years
ago some fifteen million votes were
cast Of these nearly ten and a
half millions were cast for the can
didates of the two progressive parties,
only three and a half millions for the
candidates of the Republican party,
the party which lingered in the old
ways and felt none of the new im
pulse of a new day. Aloro than two
thirds of the voters of the United
States favored then, and favor now,
a program whose object Is to serve
the changing needs of humanity and
progress.
Tho Democratic party was entrust
ed with the task. These powerful
forces of the now ago were put under
Its direction. And under that direc
tion what have they accomplished?
They have put both the business and
the lifo of the country upon a new
footing. They have released the fi
nancial credit, upon which commerce
and production alike depend, from
the control of small groups of finan
ciers and bankers at tho speculative
centers. They have released the com
merce and industry of the country
from the domination of those who
were building up their power by sel
fish and unfair methods of compe
tition. They have supplied those who
wished .to conduct their business in
conformity with the spirit of the laws
withfrjeriaiy giiidanco and delivered
them., from a nervous fear of the 1
The concrete piers and abutments
for the bridge across Weber river con
necting the stockyards with the plant
of the Ogden Packing and Provision
company already have been placed.
Bridge steel for the structure is an
ticipated in a very short time. When
this bridge is finished, the present
stockyards used by the packing com
pany east of the river will be entire
ly removed, many of the pens having
already been torn down to make room
for the new buildings.
Officers of the Ogden "Union Stock
yards company have received requests
from several horse sales companies
for the right to buy and sell horses
at the new yards. Definite arrange
ments along this line will soon be
completed. Many cattle and sheep
buyers are also arranging to take ad
vantage of tho new buying opportu
nities offered by the establishment of
this Ogden livestock market
courts. They have released our for
eign trade from the shackles of a
tariff contrived in the interest of spe
cial groups of favored producers, and
have created a tariff commission in
tended to substitute public for pri
vate influences, facts for theories and
pretenions, in all future legislation
with regard to duties and restrictions
on imports. They have made provi
sion for tho immediate and systematic
development of our carrying trade on
the seas. They have at last supplied
the means by which the nation may
be bound together, materially and
spiritually, by a network of good roads
upon which both commodles and sym
pathies may move freely from com
munity to community. They have put
the farmers upon a footing of per
fect equality with business men and
men of all other callings In respect
of his access to commercial credit;
have placed a great bureau of the gov
ernment at his service In seeking and
finding his best markets; have pro
tected him by the establishment of
definite standards In the sale of his
products, and havo put the scientific
knowledge of the world at his dis
posal by practical demonstration at
the expense of the government upon
the farms themselves. They have
emancipated the laborers of the coun
try from the unjustified restraints
which the courts had put upon them
by mistaken applications of old law
to new circumstances and conditions.
They have released the children of
the country In large part irom hurt
ful labor; have sought to safeguard
the Jives and the health of our la
borers in dangerous occupations; and
have put agencies of the government
itself at the sen-ice of thoso who
seek employment And most of these
things have been done within the brief
limits of a single administration.
And still the great work is not fin
ished. It can never be rounded off
and concluded so long as circum
stances change and the fortunes and
relations o fmen shift and alter. The
question you havo to decide one week
from next Tuesday is whether it shall
be prematurely interrupted, perhaps
for a generation to come, and all the
generous forces of tho age and of the
"world thrown back upon themselves
In discouragement and . confusion.
The program remaining Is as great
as, the program accomplished. The
Exposition in Ogden I ' I
to Extend Over a Year; j I
$1,000,000 to be Given j I
Plans for the formation and Incor
poration of an organization to promote
the international transportation expo
sition to be held in Ogden in 1919, to
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary
of the driving of the "Golden Spike" at
Promontory Point "which marked the
completion of the first transcontinen
tal railroad, were launched last night
at a meeting held In the rooms of the
Kiesel Trust company In the Col. Hud
son building. The meeting was the
first to be held by the committee re
cently appointed by the directors of
the Ogden Publicity bureau to launch
preliminary plans for the opening
campaign of preparations for the ex
position and to submit plans for a
memorial to the late E. H. Harriman.
This committee is composed of the
following members of the Weber club:
A. P. Blgelow, chairman; Fred J. Kie
sel, Albert Scowcroft R- E. Bristol, A.
R. Heywood, M. S. Browning, L. R.
Eccles, Fred G. Taylor, James H.
Douglass, John S. Lewis, A. T. Wright
and James Pingree.
The principal business of the meet
ing was the appointment of commit
tees to draft a constitution and ar
ticles of incorporation for an organi
zation to promote the transportation
exposition and a Harriman memorial
association.
The first committe was apointed as
follows:
A. R. Heywood, chairman; Fred G.
procedure of our courts is antiquated
and a hinderance, not an aid, in the
Just administration of the law. We
must simplify and reform it as other
enlightened nations have done, and
make courts of justice out of oun
courts of law. We must seek and find
the means of bringing capital and
labor to a clear understanding of
their common interests, which are no
other than the interests of the na
tion itself as a community. We must
release our great undeveloped natural
resources upon some sensible plan of
use and conservation. We must re
cruit the votes of forward-looking men
by the votes of women so that we
may have a fresh insight in all mat
ters of social reform and move more
certainly and more promptly in the
solution of the many new problems of
society with which the law must
henceforth deal. We must unite the
Americas, North and South, in a new
sympathy and co-operation. We must
seek justice and the right through ev
ery channel that offers; and we must
put America in all its force, in all
its wealth, alike of physical power and
spiritual enthusiasm, at the service
of the other nations oft he world
when peace comes on the other side
of the seas, to make that peace per
manent by establishing it on the ever
lasting foundations of right, co-operation,
equality and justice. ' These
things we must do and all else that
ma yserve mankind.
And our motto be "CO-OPERA- j
TION," the union, not the hostile ri
valry, of the forces of socety within !
the nation and within the family of I
nations. The interests of mankind I
can never again be served by aggres
sion; the interests of no nation or I
group of nations can ever again be -served
by aggression. The contests
of jealousy are as bitter and as dan-1
gerous as tho contests of arms. The
world must henceforth seek the means
of accomodation, not the means of
arresting quarrels merely. The na
tion we love and serve must be among
the first and foremost of those that
rise to the new ideals with spirit and
well-directed force. Our own reforms,
our own actions in the interest of
justice and humanity must be the ear
nest of our spirit and purpose in
the affairs of the world outside our
own borders.
Such is the prospect such Is the
program, my fellow citizens, to which
we look forward, to which it is our
purpose to move forward with enthus
iasm and irresistible ardor. We will
not pause in the midst of our task.
We know that we stand at one of the
most critical junctures in the history
of the world, when all hopes hang in :
the balance. We will suffer no man, i
no body of men, through timidity or
fear or jealousy, to delay or hinder
or embarrass us. Reaction can have ;
no place of tolerance amongst us when
all the world waits upon those who ;
plan justice and progress. I summon
you, not only to sustain, but to swell '
the hosts that have their faces now i
set towards the light their eyes lifted i
to the horizons where the dawn of a
new age begins to brighten; and I '
summon you with confidence, with a i
Taylor, Albert Scowcroft and James ' lM
H. DeVine, and the second: Fred J. ' H
Kiesel, chairman; James DeVine, R.
E. Bristol, James Pingree and James J;
H. Douglass.
Both committees were instructed to )i
begin their work at the earliest pos- J
sible moment and as soon as the two ; j
associations are incorporated the ap- ' .
pointment of general committees to A '
plan all details of the mammoth ex- ji
position and the Harriman memorial n
will be made. 'J
According to the general discussion J
at the meeting last night the expo- j
sition is to be first outlined on a mil- '5 r
Hon dollar scale, with the probability ?J j
of this financial limit being increased Vl
later. The majority of the buildings 1 -H
to be erected will be designed for per-
manent structures and the exposition j
will last through the entire summer H
of 1919. '-H
It will be national and perhaps in-
ternational in scope and all of the j
western states will be asked to follow
the example of the national govern- H
ment and co-operate with Utah and I. 'M
Ogden in making the jubilee one of !j J
the greatest expositions the country it
has ever known. l
The Harriman memorial is to cost Vjj
at least $250,000, according to a state- rt
ment made by Chairman Fred J. Kie- t lJ
sel of the committee, at the conclusion a JM
of the meeting last night q -H
certain expectation of the part Amer- ''11
ica and her great people are to play t
when the dawn broadens into day. , i jH
oo iM
ANOTHER VICTORY I
Recapture Piscul in Trotus
Valley Teutons Are 11
Fleeing in Disorder. j jjH
Bucharest, Oct 2S. Via London. j ,
5:59 p. m. Rumanian troops on the
Moldavian frontier have won another j
success over the Austro-German ,j
forces, the war office announced to- "j
day. In the Trotus valley they re- i
captured Piscul from the vicinity in -S
which the Teutonic troops are fleeing
in disorder, the statement declares. '
In the Uzul valley a Rumanian at- 1
tack was successful, ten officers and V
900 men with five machine guns and ,
a large quantity of war material be- I
ing captured by the Rumanian forces. I
East of the Alt valley hostile attacks ' 1
were repulsed. : jf
In the Jiul valley, the Austro-Ger-
man forces which had been advanced 2
to the west were complete" defeat- Ift
ed. adds the statement, leaving 1,000 ii
dead on the battlefield, besides losing , - jH
450 men in prisoners and 16 machine '5 jH
guns. I '
NORWEGIAN STEAMER I'M
SUNK BY GERMANS i:
London. Oct 2S, 10:10 a. m. The !
Norwegian steamer Bygdo has been
sunk off Christiania. Norway, and her ',(
crew has been landed, says a Lloyd's J j
agency dispatch. The same agency
reports that the British steam trawler
Fuchsia has been sunk and her crew 4
imprisoned in Germany. j tH
The Norwegian steamer Fritsoe, 4
while bound from Larvik, Norway, to j
Longdon with a cargo of boards, has f
been taken to Cuxhaven. i '
The Bygdo hailed from Christiania, j
belonged to R. M. Petersen,, was built '
in 1912 and was of 720 tons.
New Haven, Conn., Oct. 28. Wash- '
ington and Jefferson College, conquer-
or of Yale for the last two years, was
expected to furnish the Blue eleven t '
with its first real test of the sea- 5H
son here this afternoon. The Penn- , f. ,
sylvanians, with a light, fast team. : 1
adept in tho forward paslsng art were 1
confident of making it three straight. ; j
The Ells, with a much stranger team J
than last year, were hopeful of win- . f
ciing by a comfortable margin. ; ,
Captain Black expected to play for j
rale after an absence of two weeks g j
sn account of an injury to his ankle. ; I
1 H
A package of Murphy's fresh roasted J
Hotel Utah Coffee I
j: Free with each Want Ad. for next Saturday's Standard. - ,
We will begin to give the coffee away early Monday ;: -V
morning and keep right on giving it until it is all gone. rH
Bring your ads. in early in the week and be sure of the ; "j H
; coffee. We will hold the ad. for SATURDAY. .)
