FAIR
VOLUME XliV.
STE. OjENEVIE VE. MISSOURI. SATURDAY. OCTOnEH 28. l'.HO.
NU3IKKK 27.
PLAY
Proposed Amendments to the
Constitution of Missouri
rinsT
CONSTITrTMN.U.
mi: NT.
AMK.VO-
Tolnt nml rnnrurrt-nt re.olutlon .lib
milting In ir quallflril lotrrn of Itie
of Ml.nttrl, nn nmrntlmrnt In the Con
Mtltiillnn thrrpnf, ronrcrntnff ' pe nftlonh to
the clrirtlne Mini!.
Be it resolved by the Senate, the House of
Representatives concurring therein:
Thnt at the ireneral election to 1c held
on Tiie.ilny fMlnwtng the first Monilnv
In November, 101ft. there nhnll lit mibinltted
In the nunllfloil roter nf Ml.murl, for nilop
tlon or rejection, the following constitu
tional nnicrHlment, to-wlt!
Thnt section 47 of nrtlcle IV of tho Con-
t It n 1 1 on hi nmcmleil liv mMInc thereto
the follnnlnc word: "ProrMed further,
thnt nothing In tlili Constitution contnlncil
iihnll lie cnnMrucil n prohibiting the gen
rrnl ncmhlv from grunting, or nuthorlj
Ing the cnntlng of. pension to the do
eerilng hllnil, n may bo provided und
rcBUlnted liy law."
BKCOi.'K CONSTITfTJONAI. AMENO
JIKXT. Proposed by Initiative Petition.
To emnmrrr the I.eifMntiirc of Mlssonrl
n rrcnic. liy Mcrlnl Inw, n slide 1-nnil
Hink ullli power In loan money secured
liy ilrril nf trust on nerlcutlurnl lanils
nnd In Uriic linmlN, nml niitliorlzlnif the
appropriation, of line Million Dollar. t.
000.0OO.OO) out of Ihe Stute Trenmiry for
that lurpoc, nnd to exempt the enpltal
and bond, nf .alii Innk from tnxntlon,
ami militating nny lettMallon heretofore
enacted for such purpose.
missol'ki statu i.1nii i1vnic amend
jiiint to the constitution.
l'roposed liy legal voters by lnltlitlve
Petitions under the Initiative mid Refer
endum Provisions of the Constitution,
empowering the flonernl Assembly to en
net n special lnw rre.itlng n corporation -o
be known ni the Missouri fltnte l.nnil llnnlc,
Mlth powers tn mobilize nnd liquidize farm
credits, to appropriate state moneys ns
n loan in nld thereof, nnd cxemptlcs from
state, enmity nnd municipal taxes nil of
the asets of said bank, nln debenture
bonds Issued by It. and providing for the
validating of nny law enacted by the (leu
ernl Assembly In nerordnnee herewith.
Be it enacted by the people of the Slate of
Missouri that the Comtitution be to amended
as to preiiic as follow:
Section 1. The (iciiernl Assemhlv Is here
by empowered to enact n special law7 trj
create n corporation tn be known as the
Missouri Slnte Land It-ink. with power tn
make loans on notes secured by deeds of
trust or mortgages upon agricultural lands,
nnd to Issue debenture bonds ugnlnst thn
same with nil suitable and Incidental
powers. Anil tn enact other special laws
nt the same session or nt other sessions of
the General Assembly to amend nnd Im
prove the said net, or to supply omissions
or correct errors or defects therein.
Section 2. The flenernl Assembly Is here
by nuthoil7Cd and empowered to enact n
law or laws appropriating ns n loan out of
the moneys nf the State Treasury, the
Bum of one million dollars ns a working
capital for said corporation
Section X The flencral Assembly Is
hereby authorized and empowered to en
act n lnw or Inws exempting from state,
conntv nnd municipal taxes tho assets of
said Missouri State I,and Itank and nil de
benture bonds Issued by It.
Section 4. Any law heretofore enacted
by the flenernl Assembly In accordance
xlth the provisions of Sections 1. 2 and 3
hereof shall be deemed valid from and after
the adoption hereof,
tiiiki) constitutional a.mkni1
mi:nt. Proposed by Initiative Petition.
Prohibiting nfter July nrt, 1017, the
fnanufnrture of, tie Introduction Into, nnd
the Kiting, exchanging, linrtrrlug, selling
or disponing of Inloxlentlng liquors In the
State of Missouri, except wine for sacra
mental purpose, presrrlhlng n prnalty
for the llolatlon thereof nnd repenllng nil
ports of the Constitution, Stntute. und 3lu
nlclpal l.nwi In conflict therewith.
Proposed amendment to the Constitution
of Missouri, to be submitted to the legal
voters of the State of Missouri for their
approval or rejection nt the regular gen
eral election to be held on the seventh dav
of November, A. I). lDM, prohibiting the
manufacture of. the Introduction Into, nnd
the giving, eichnnging, bartering, selling,
or disposing of Intoxicating liquors In the
State of Missouri, except wine for sacra
mental purposes, prescribing n penalty for
the violation thereof nnd repealing nil parto
of the State Constitution. State and Munic
ipal Laws In conflict therewith.
Be it enacted by the people of ll:.- State of
Missouri:
Section 1. From nnd after Julv first,
3017, no Intoxicating liquor or liquors,
except wine for sacramental purposes, shall
be manufactured In or introduced into the
State ef Missouri under nny pretense.
Uiery person who sejls, exchanges, gives,
barters, or disposes of Intoxicating liquor
of any kind to nny person In the State of
Missouri, or who manufactures, or Intro
duces Into, or attempts to Introduce Into
tho State of Missouri, Intoxicating liquor
of nny kind; except wine ns aforesaid for
me purposes arorcgaiii ; snail be guilty of n
misdemeanor nnd upon conviction shall be
E
uumneti uy n one oi not less than three
undred dollars nor more thnn nn Mm,,.
sand dollars, or by Imiirisniimeni In ti.
county Jail not less than six months nor
more thnn twelve months, or by both such
floe and Imprisonment,
All parts of tho State Constitution, nnd
Inws of the State and municipalities there
in, conflicting with the provisions of thU
section, ure hereby repealed.
STATE OF MISSOURI, )
Department of State, f
I, Cornelius Roach. Secretary of State
of the Slate of Missouri, hereby cerllfy
thnt the foregoing Is a full, true nnd com
plete copy of the one Joint nnd concurrent
resolution of the Forty-elghlh General As
sembly of the State of Missouri of the pro.
foscd amendment to the Constitution of
he State of Missouri; also, of the two
amendments to the Constitution proposed
by I ill tin 1 1 vo petition, to be submitted to
the qualified voters of tho State of Missouri
at the general election to be held on Tues
day, tho seventh dny of November, 11)10.
In testimony whereof, I hereunto set
my hand and affixed the flre.it Seal of the
State of Missouri. Done nt office In tho
City of Jefferson, this Bth day of Septem.
ber, A, I). 1310. "
(Scall
SECRETARY Or"3TATC
' Tho Globe-Dpmocrut and Toledo
Jllndo tiro disagreed ns to whom tlto
1,-orld owes tho Kreater monument
(ho Inventor of tho tin can or tho in
ventor of the can opener. Why not
compromise this dispute and contributo
to the monument fund of tho man who
Invented tho corkscrew?
Blue-eyed men nro more ficklo than
tho brown-eyed oues, says n Cleveland
social service Investigator, basing him
assertion on tlio reports of wlfc-deser-Hon.
Ho has tho good grace to of
fer as on amendment that blue-eyed
men nro moro adventurous,, perhaps,
nnd marry moro frequently.
A Washington scientist says thnt
Insect pests cost this country mil
lions of dollnrs. But ho doesn't say
tho worst of the lot' Is -tho bco that
gets Into tho bonnet.
Tho lighters tiro, said, to bo raising
pigs In tho trdncliosiy and from nil ac
counts It's iXxo very place In rainy
weather.
NEAS OF THE WEEK
FROM
WORLD
HAPPENINGS IN OUR OWN AND
OTHER COUNTRIES HERE
ARE BRIEFLY TOLD.
SHORT ITEMS FOR BUSY MEN
Condensation of Week's News Re
viewed Without Comment All
Nations Find Something to
Edify and Instruct.
All existing grain contracta in Mani
toba wheat havo been aaken over by
tho British government.
Canadian 1'aciflc trainmen from
coast to coast wero ordered to strike
at 5 p. m. next Wednesday. Trainmen
representatives say hopo is held out
for a settlement.
Bayonno's stormy days aro over,
The last of tho strikers to hold out
returned to work and conditions aro
again normal ut all oil plants,
A courtmartial at Marseilles has
unanimously condemned to death for
spying Madam Comeno Sanches, who
before her marrlago was Mario Liber
dall of Du3selclorf.
A New York Central 'freight train,
heavily laden with merchandise bodun
for Chicago, was held up by nrmed
robbers near Blasdell, N. Y.
V
Tho U. S. treasury "conscience
fund" was enriched by a $1,000 con
tribution from an unknown person in
Now York City.
-
Diamonds worth $2,C00 were stolen
from tho Highland Park (111.) homo
of D. S. Pato whllo Mrs. Pate and her
maid wero in the house.
m m
Tho war department placed orders
for 120 aeroplanes.
Officials of tho Centralia (Ok.) Na
tional bank, rebbed recently by four
men, say practically all tho noto3 held
by tho bank wero taken.
Tho Chicago & Alton railroad gave
to shop employes an advanco in pay
which will amount to about $135,000
yearly,
Becauso a man's religion requires
that ho should roll on tho floor, shout,
sing, kiss and cnibraco colored per
sons is no reason why his wifo should
ask a divorce, according to Judgo
Thornton at Indianapolis,
Miss Bertha Itouckle, 18, was Btrlck'
en with heart disease while playing a
piano nt tho home of a girl friend in
Owaneco, 111,, nnd died within ono
hour.
Tho coast guard cutter Tampa has
been ordered out from Charleston, S.
C, to hunt the derelict American
schooner Dunn.
David Starr Jordan, chancellor of
Stanford university and peaco advo
cate, plans to carry his peace cam
palgn to Europe next spring.
Two thousand dollars has been set
aside by tho Utah capital commission
to beautify the grounds.
Former Gov. William L. Douglass
of Massachusetts has declined to run
(or tho United States senate.
A denial that tho British "tanks"
tsed in the Sommo offensivo are of
American manufacture was made by
tho president of a New 'York export
ing firm.
The thoroughbred saddle horso
which belonged to Ueut. Henry H.
Adair of the Tenth United States cav
alry, who was killed during the fight
ing nt Carrlzal, Chihuahua, on Juno
21, was found In Juarez and delivered
to the United States army officers.
Lightning which struck the ground
In a cotton field owned by D. M. How
ard, at Eldorado, Ark., withered all
the stalks within a radius of 1G feet.
Otto Miller was killed nnd Mrs. Mil
ler and Mrs. N. W, Hett and seven
othew wero seriously hurt when tholr
automobile tipped over at Hocktord,
111.
Frank E. Halley told tho pollco ho
and a companion had been held up in
his office by three men and robbed of
$750 In Jewelry and money. Tho po
lice then arrested Halley us a hand
book maker.
.
An armed posse is in search ot a
man who, after setting firo to tho
homo of Mrs. Wyuette Wright, near
Minneapolis, Minn., uttacked tho wom
an with an ax and Indicted mortal
wounds.
I ...
Tho middle west Is rolling in pros
perity and much interested In politics
and prospects for peace, according to
President Frank A. Vanderlip ot the
National City 'bank.
Commander Evangeline Booth of
Now York, head ot tho Salvation
Army In this country, Is suffering
from a sovero attack of neuritis.
Harold Arnold, a fanner, was found
dead with his skull crushed on the in
terurban tracks south of Burt Station,
111.
Plans for R 10,000 mile national aer
oplane race around tho country next
year, starting nnd ending nt Saa
Diego, Cal.
...
May Mills, syncopated dancer, dis
played her abilities In Judge Trudes
court, Chicago, to show charges tho
performance was Indecent wero un
true. ' ...
Louis Martin, 50, a patient from
Henry county, Mo., at tho state hos
pital for the Insane, No. 3, killed him.
self by plashing his throat with a
pocketknlfe.
...
The Berlin Socialist newspaper
Vorwaerts has been suppressed by the
order of tho military commander of
Brandenburg.
...
The Austro-Hungnrlan tobacco mo
nopoly has issued orders to its stores
forbidding tho salo of more than ono
cigar dally to tho samo customer.
The women's bureau of tho Demo
cratic national committeo has chal-
""fcu women s committee oi ino , Jnmc3 R Coigate, Duluth-owned
national Hughes alliance to an open ,whaIcbacki wero downed in Lako
debate in New otk on or after Oct. j Krlo FrIdny nlslu when tho Colgate,
fi n n y n or i bound from Buffalo to Fort William,
alter Oct. 30. Qnt ( wlth coawcnt Jcwn in a slorm
At Stoiner, "star boarder" at tho off Eric Va- Tlle tragedy became
home of Charles Stuart, Evansvillo, ' known when Capt. Walter Graahaw
Ind., made tho mistake of taking sides -,f Cleveland, solo survivor, was pic ked
with Mrs. Stuart in quarrels with her un by a car fcrry ana taken t0 Con
husband. Tho Inst squabblo resulted "eaut, Ohio, after being afloat 34
in Stuart killing Steiner. "ours on a life raft.
. Tho Colgate went down at 10
Mrs. Sarah E. Hodges of Peoria, 111., ' o'clock Friday night off Long Point,
05, registered nnd will cast her vote 1 Canada, opposite Erie. Every ono
for president Nov. 7. I ot the crew of 21 perished, 19 of them
... being sucked down to death in tho in-
A delegation of tho striking Panama stant the big steel boat foundered In
canal workers has nsked tho governor tho storm mill two added to tho roll
of eho canal zone for nn increase in when exhaustion, exposure and the re
wages of 7 cents an hour, or $10 a lentlcss wnves washing over the raft
nlnth. I .that carried their captain washed
!,,.,! i , , a them off when their strength gave
uerman claimants appealed to tho
sllnromp nnilrt frrmi lVn tlanrnn tlr WaJ ,
Virginia federal courts awarding tho
cargo of tho prlzo ship Appam to Brit
Ish interests.
Nedjo Kerovic, ono of the consplra- off Kondeau, Canada, opposite Clove
tors in the assassination of Archduke land.
Francis Ferdinand, heir apparent to , Tho Colgate went down in tho night
tho Austrian throne, in 1911, is dead 0f what became known hero cs
in a military prison. "Black Friday" in marine circles, dlx
I men wero lost -when the steamer Filer
Howard Gau of Cincinnati Is In gank in Lako Erie on Friday. Only
Washington, intent on meeting Secre- Capt. Mattlson was saved. On the
tary of War Baker, with the object of Bamo stormy night the steamer Mir
offering to tho government a powder-, 6hall P. Butters foundered, but Its
less gun. crow of 13 men was saved,
siv nhlenrrn rin',Pn nnv., rnn.rii,. Less than an hour after the Filer
uted $5,000 each toward a fund to bo
used in furthering tho cause of unl-
versal training.
Beatrice Foster, 27 years old, of Ma
comb, 111., a student at tho University
of Wisconsin library school, was
burned to death when a lighted rnatch
set flro to her clothing.
Judgo William B. Sheppard has de
cided Thomas J. Ryan is entitled to
$040,000 as his share of $1,600,000
profit made on a munitions contract , ,n tho "rst deSrco for sIay'nS "Is
by tho Hecordlng and Computing Co. two daughters, aged 14 and 11. respec
of ayton, O. tlvely. The prosecution contended
. i that Fudge gave poison to one daugh-
Mrs. Matilda Hayes, 73, colored, was ter and shot tho father so that ho
burned to death In a fire that de- might marry Bertie Mundy, who Is
stroyed tho cottage ot her son-in-law, ; said to havo objected to tho children.
tho Rev. Benjamin Richard Willis, at j
St. Louis. Held as Blackmailers' Head.
Many carloads of mahogany wero
destroyed In a fire in'tho dry kiln or
H. Karpen Bros., Chicago, furniture
manufacturers. Tho loss is estimated
at $100 000
. . .
Four New Orleans breweries plead-
ed guilty in the federal court to ship-1
ping beer improperly labeled from
this city to Mississippi gulf coast 1
"dry" points. Three were fined $150
each and the fourth $300. .
'
Miners employed by the Samples Coal
vu. iu us mine io. z, near wcAIC3-
ter, Ok., walked out with tho an-
. nouueement that they would not re
turn to work until tho biennial wago
contract is signed.
"I nm going to voto for Wilson,"
said Miss Jano Addams of Hull House,
(JMcago.
Charles M. Bonnett, n farmer pf
Melder, La., shot and killed his 19-
year-old daughter when sho refused
to work in tho fields. Bonnett then
ended his life.
...
The flesh of polar bears is being
sold in Wcissy-usser, Germany, ut 37
cents a pound. It finds ready sale
nnd Is declared to bo tasty and nour
ishing. ... v
Tho British government's reply to
tho American noto against extension
ot the blacklist to tho United States
holds that tho blacklist Is a purely in
ternal measure nnd must be main
tained as nn nbsolute military ne
cessity. A New Jersey charter was Issued to
tho League to Enforce Peuce, which
was organized in independence hall,
i-iiuuueipuia. in Juno, 1U15, and of Dubuque, la. Mrs. Mary Sunder
which former President Taft la a iiafti 85, Wlls murdered by ber daugli-
irusiitt.
Tho Roumanian steanior Bistrita
linn hpnn Inrnmlniul onrl
...
According to tho census ot Sept. 1,
1910", tho number ot hogs In Germany
was 17,300,000, un Increase over April , from lho American punitive expedl
15 of 3,1)23,906, or 29.4 per cent. tlon llavo l''rot01! south of El
. . . . Vnlle, but for protective purposes
Lying sldo by side, tho bodies of
Charles Brown and his 14-year-old ola-,
ler-ln-lav, Islma Cope, wero found In
a wooii by a searching party near
Glade, Ky,, after a week's search.
Isaac Dodd, 66, of Montclalr, N. J
is dead, survived by 14 children, 60
grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
LIKE ERIE STORM
E
ENTIRE CREW OF STEAMER DIE
WHEN WHALEBACK GOES
DOWN.
CAPTAIN PICKED UP BY FERRY
Others Perish When Weather Proves
Too Much for Craft No Wireless
Warnings and Rescued Bring
In Sorry Stories.
Cleveland, Ohio. Twenty-ono mem
bers of tho crew of tho steamer
Picked Up by Ferry Boat.
Tho ferry steamer Marquette and
Bessemer No. 2 nicked un the caucnln
B!mk the Colgate, by far the largestof
tha thrco vessels went down -ui ps
uway. Tho 21 of her crew who died
raised "Black Friday's" sea casualty
list on Lako Erlo to 27. There was
no wireless to give warning, and tho
lake held Its secret until Cnpt. Clta
shaw was rescued.
Convicted of Murdering Two.
Pensacola, Fla. E. J. Fudge was
convicted by n Jury hero of murder
New York. After trailing him nil
eT tht U"' fd .Stales Detectives
f1"011 a,nd UeI!ly aostcd aa A.
B,r0"'n; b?"0VCd, 10 b T,,'11,0 ,pVf
clpals in tho Chicago and Philadelphia
blackmailing gang which took $250,-
000 from its vlctras.
Kaiser's Brother, Austrian Admiral,
Amsterdam. A Vienna telegram
says that Emperor Francis Joseph lias
appointed Prlnco Henry ot Prussia,
brother of Emperor William, a grand
admiral of tho Austrian navy.
German Cruiser Torpedoed.
London. A German light cruiser
has been torpedoed by a British sub
marine. The cruiser remained afloat.
although she apparently suffered con-
siacramo mintage.
Fort Yellowstone Is Closed.
Lander, Wyo. Fort Yellowstone,
post of troops who heretofore havo
guarded Yellowstone Park, was closed
as a military post and tho troops sta-
tloncd tjioro were ordered to tho bor
der. Shortage of Hairpins.
New York. A hairpin famine has
hit tho United States. Tho countrUn
which have always supplied tho pins
for milady's colffuro aro keeping all
their wiro at homo for ammunition.
Three Deer Killed by Locomotive.
Harlin, la. A herd of 30 or 40 deer,
running from tho timber on tho John
Huber farm, run In front of a Grent
Western train. Thieo ot tho deer
wero killed.
Kills Mother, 85, and Herself.
j tcri josepiimo Sunderhaft, 52, who
! la'er killed herself by jumping into
l UVIUU1. w til.
Pershlng's Scouts Go South.
Columbus, N. M. Scouting parties
on'y " was authoritatively stilted
ueru
Belgian Relief Luncheon Held,
London. A luncheon for tho Ameri
can commission for relief In Belgium,
In celebrating tho second anniversary
of tho beginning of tho work, was
given hero by H. Carton do Wlart,
Belgian minister of justice.
Ml
How cities and towns can
convert this troublesome
waste product into practi
cal profit : : An enterprise
which promises to yield
big returns to wide-awake
communities in America
ANUFACTlliLNG a lilgh
grado fuel from garbage Is
a new industry that prom
ises to solve the problem of
disposing of the waste of
cities and towns. In No
vember of lust year the Ilrst
experimental plant of the new garbage
disposal process was established In San
Antonio, Tex. It proved so successful
that the city of Austin decided to order
the construction of a plant, nnd tho
factory, which was opened n few weeks
ago, Is now running to full capacity,
taking enro of nil refuxu In a sanitary
manner mid converting it Into bricks
of fuel which tests have proved to he
the equal of bituminous coal. Tho In
ventor of the new fuel is Mr. E. L. Cul
ver of Chicago, who began Investlpit
Ing the possibility and practicability
of commercializing municipal garbage
about live years ago. As a result of
n long series of experiments he proved
the adaptability of n method for mak
ing fuel bricks out of the refuse. In
addition to the plant at Austin, Region,
Cnmidn, has entered Into contract for
tho erection of a municipal plant.
Tho process of manufacturing
Onkoal, u name gtvot, to the new fuel
because of Its similarity to oak wood In
burning, Is similar to the making ot
stiff mud bricks, practically the same
machinery being used, nlthough much
less power Is used, nnd less care Is re
quired to produce perfect bricks of
fuel. Tho combination producing the
best results for domestic purposes Is it
mixture of equal parts of coal dust
Vtho waste dust from coal mines und
garbage, with the addition of nbmit
7 per cent of coal tnr. For steam pur
poses no coal dust Is required. Each
brick weighs, when dry, two pounds,
so that 1,000 bricks make n ton. For
convenience In handling, ns well ns the
protection of the public against short
weights, tho fuel Is sold on n schedule
of prices for 1,000 or 100 bricks.
One stiff mud brick machine of the
typo used nt the Austin plant turns
out In eight hours' run, "3,000 bricks,
or "." tons of Oakonl, nnd in erecting
plants tills Is termed n one-unit plant,
which Iins n full capacity of 75 tons
dally. In erecting municipal plants,
other units can be Installed to suit the
capacity of the city, or until nil of the
available binding material ot the city
Is consumed. It Is estimated that n
city will produce for each ono thou
sand people approximately n ton of
garbage a day, or for domestic pur
poses over two tons of brick fuel.
Tho manufacture of the new fuel Is
extremely Interesting Inasmuch ns It
Is mnile up entirely of wnste materlnl
handled by common labor. The wnste
which tho cliy formerly had to burn
In nn Incinerator nt n considerable ex
pense Is now taken by carts direct to
the factory, where It Is dumped on n
sorting platform nnd sprayed with
creosote ns a sanitary precaution, ns
well us to allow the sorters to work
In comfort. Openings are provided in
these platforms where tho different
parts of the garbage are dropped Into
conveyors nnd conveyed ns follows
the pieces of Iron to n storage; tho
bottles to n wnshlng tank, where they
are sterilized before being stored; tho
rags to a washing machine, where they
are sterilized by being washed In boil
ing water; the nshes, stone, brick, etc.,
to n storage and used for (ills, and the
tin cans to a press where they tire
baled nnd conveyed to storage.
Thnt which Is left nnd of u combust
Iblo nature Is pluced on n large 40-foot
CONDENSATIONS
Italian ollvo trees aro being cut
down for fuel.
In n town In tho heart ot Russian
salt fields many houses nro built of
unit
An Indian trlbo In Bollvln shuns tho
whites and lives ns In tho stono ngo,
making I mils and weapons of stoue,
bono and wood.
o o &
GJixnnni? rrsrr. Tivrirvm jit nrtArrrrvr am
u- -i I
belt three feet wide and carried to a
huge grinder which reduces It to
line pieces. 'From this grinder It
Is conveyed to n pulping ma
chine, where hot water and live
stenni Is npplled together with n cer
tain percentage of tar, which nets In
conjunction with tho hot water and
steam ns n thorough disinfectant of
the product and also ns deodorizer ot
the smoke of tho fuel while being con
sumed ns well ns n deodorizer of the
fuel Itself. Tho mass Is thoroughly
mixed In this machine nnd Is reduced
to n pulp. From this machine the
mass Is conveyed to n mixer, where
coal dust Is added In the desired pro
portion, according to the purpose for
which the fuel Is to be used. For
steam purposes, where rapid combus
tion Is required, coal dust Is unneces
sary, although a very small percentage
Is sometimes used, while for domes
tic purposes, where n slow even fire
Is desired, the best results aro ob
tained by the addition of BO per cent
of coal dust. From the mixer the
mass drops Into n molding innrhlne
where It Is molded Into bricks. Then
It Is conveyed through n drying kiln
where the bricks nre thoroughly dried.
All conveyors, elevutors und machin
ery nro tightly Inclosed so thnt there
Is no escnpe of dust, nnd the only odor
In tho entire plant Is tho smell of
creosote that is contained In the tnr.
For this reason It Is perfectly possible
to establish n plant In the business or
residential districts of a city without
being offensive. The remarkable spec
tacle of seeing old shoes, hats, paper,
rags, straw, mnnure, house garbage,
night soli nnd n variety of other waste
products being thrown Into one mn
chlne nnd emerging from nnolher In
the shape of n perfect fuel brick, with
out odor nnd bearing no resemblance
wlmtever tn the original materials, Is
almost miraculous.
Among the advantages claimed for
the new fuel nro that It will not slnck,
no matter how long It Is kept In stor
age, that It Is Impervious to water,
and that It .burns to nshes without
leaving n semblance of clinkers. It
also produces practically no nrdor and
very little smoke when burning. There
Is n very Inrgo percentage, often ns
high ns 'J."i per cent, of tlio ordinary
coals, thnt esrnpes through the grates
without being consumed, so thnt It fre-
Japan's ambitious plnn for mnklng
Its railways brond gauged will tnko
until mill for completion, It Is esti
mated, nnd will cost something llko
700,000,000.
The capacity of n clothesline Is
doubled by u new device thnt straddles
tho lino nnd provides two pieces of
wlro to which clothes can bo fustentd.
4&obert H.i1oultoiv
3TS5E. lis
qucntly pays to sift
the nshes In order to
recover a portion of
this amount. The fuel
bricks, on tho other
hand, due to their
shape nnd the thor
ough distribution of
their parts, nro con
sumed with nlmost
perfect combustion.
The shape of tho
brick Is retained un
til It is entirely con
sumed, after which n
fine, light, cigarlike
ash remains.
Experiments mado
by Dr. William B. Philips, director
of tho bureau of economic geology
and technology of the University of
Texus, showed thnt twelve pounds
of the garbage fuel bricks will
burn on nn nverngo of two und
n half hours In n small stove, as
ngnlnst two hours nnd twenty minutes
of the sumo nmount of lump bitumin
ous coal, nnd will produce the same
amount of heat ns the latter. The
average cost of manufacturing the fuel
nt the Austin plnnt Is about $1.75 n
ton, without considering the revenue
derived by tho city from tho sale of by
products, such ns rags, tin cans, bottles,
brass, copper, zinc, rubber, etc.
Dr. F. M. Gunn of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, who recently
delivered n series of lectures on sani
tation and garbage disposal at tho
L'nlverslty of Texns, expressed the
opinion thnt the process which Mr.
Culver Invented Is one of tho most
promising schemes so far advanced for
handling city refuse; that It uppeured
to him that It was the best way of
getting rid of wnste nnd rubbish In n
sanitary manner, and that tho method
might work n new epoch in tlio gnrbugo
and fuel problems of tho country.
PLANT THAT MAKES "ICE"
Habits of the Frost Weed Have Long
Proved a Puzzle to Bot
anists. Lnto in nutuiun, nfter producing two
sets of blooms, tho frost weed becomes
n miniature Ice factory nnd forms
crystals of "ice" about the cracked
bark of tho root. On each little brok
en rootlet tliere nppear cakes of "Ice,"
exactly right In size for the refriger
ator of u fairy queen. As yet no bot
anist has been nblo to discover tho
secret of tho plant's Ico-mnklng,
Tho Ice nppvnrs often long beforo
Ice Is formed on the ponds, nnd enn
be found by digging up tho deeply set
rootlets.
Two blooming seasons Is another
peculiarity of the plant. Early In
June It sends out n wealth of golden
yellow blossoms, having five petals
ench nnd set nt Intervals upon the
thickly leaved stem.
Then late In August tho plant flow
ers again, producing blooms Identical
with those of tho earlier season.
Nothing But the Truth.
Sho was beginning to carry weight
for ngo, and ho wasn't as young ns ho
was a year previous.
"Do you believe In long engage
ments'!" ho nsked cautiously,
"Ah," shu sighed. "I'll hcllovo In nny
kind you prefer If you'll give mo a
chance."
A Trifle Ambiguous. A
Max Don't you llko the sawdust
circle?
Dux Aro you talking about the dr
cus or coconut ploT
