OHIO r-'TE
UN'.vr ..ty
OCT ." J16
LIBRA
NON-PARTISAN
7MRS
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, OCTOBER 28, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 28
One Dollar a Year
wm rr gh hl . .,dzfl iiK m
t
1
INDEPENDENT
By the Central Labor Council, Who Call Upon Union Men to Vote for
the "Eight-Hour Day" Against the Man Who Decided
the "Danbury Hatters' Case."
The Central Labor Council last
Tuesday night endorsed Woodrow Wil
son, when it adopted the following letter
of tbc American Federation of Labor,
by a vote of 00 to !):
To the Officers of all Organised Labor:
Greeting Never at any time within
the last fifty years have the workers had
more at stake in any political campaign
than in the one that is to be decided in
the election November 7.
During the present administration and
particularly in this campaign there has
been developed a clear-cut issue be
tween the workers the producers and
those who manipulate the products of
the labor of others the exploiters.
The issue is represented in the cam
paign by the conflicting interests repre
sented by Labor and Wall street. Labor
represents the masses of the nation,
their rights as human beings, the pos
sibilities and the ideals of human de
velopment. Wall street represents the
powers of greed, and exploitation that
have mercilessly used human beings in
order to-.nile..uu vast unearned for-
f tunes and to carry out their purposes ot
' L . - '. . -WJ-...KV i -
restricting the rights and opportunities
for men to work and enjoy the products
of their toil.
During the present administration the
organized labor movement has been
able to secure recognition for the rights
of human beings and opportunity for
all to participate in the affairs of the
nation in a degree that has never before
been accomplished.
The dignitj of human life and the
value of the co-operation of those whose
work are necessary to the processes of
industry and commerce have been given
an important place in considering all
problems that concern the nation. This
recognition has taken the form of leg
islation ncccssarj to protect the inter
ests of wage-earners and in the ideals
of humanity that have guided and di
rected national policies both at home
and in our relations with other nations.
Though half of the world has been
involved in a terrific conflict and it
seemed at times as though our nation
must be drawn into the vortex of hu
man slaughter, jet the chief executive
of our land has been able to manage
the affairs of the nation and the interests
of our citizens so that without the hor
rors of war he has established and
maintained protection of human life and
human rights in the somewhat vague
domain of international law. Without
involving this nation in war, he has se
cured for us all of the protection and
all of the benefits that would have ac
crued from a successful international
war, and bj diplomatic correspondence,
has achieved the victory of emboding
concepts of humanit in international
activity, at least in so far as America is
concerned.
What has been true in the case of
the European war is also true in the
case with the relations between our
country and Mexico. Mexico had been
engaged in a convulsive effort to secure
freedom and to shake off the despotic
control of personal rule and spoliation
to benefit those who have been granted
special privileges. In their vague un
certain efforts to free themselves the
people of Mexico may have made mis
takes. Have the people of the United
States alwas been free from error?
Mexico is trjing to work out its ideals
of rights and justice.
The interests that have been seeking
to plunge our countrj into war not onl)
with European countries but also with
Mexico are the interests that are rep
resented by the most selfish and most
conscienceless clement of Wall street.
These elements have not stopped with
an effort to use existing mistakes and
wrongs as an excuse for war and have
Woodrow
&: if
H IPlSlit -
& ' - 'f&MWMm' ;;it-? ','W W
mmmmmm f'MmWmmmW'-. ma Hi
fii rif iiiiriiiiiwiMwiLiLLieaBatMaMiiMP A
PRESIDENT WOODROW WILSON
not hesitated to endeavor to create situ
ations that brought the nation to the
verj brink of war. It was onlj b Un
determined resistance of the citizens who
understood that an clement of reason
ableness was injected into the situation
and action prevented until the true facts
could be discovered and the will of the
masses of the citizens could prevent the
evil purposes and designs.
So far as the internal affairs of our
country are concerned, the organized
labor movement, as the authorized rep
resentative of the wage-earners, has
demanded for them the right of partiu
pation in all the affairs of the nation
and has secured recognition of that de
mand to a degree never before realized.
Men from among those who do the
nation's work have occupied high places
in the councils of the nation and have,
had a hearing and an influence when
matters were under consideration that
affected the interests and the welfare of
the masses.
During the past four jears there has
been enacted by congress and signed bj
President Wilson humanitarian protec
tive legislation unprecedented in amount
and scope. Legislative enactment has
secured to wage-earners fundamental
rights necessarj for the verj existence
of the organizations of labor without
which wage-earners would have nothing
of freedom and no real opportunit) for
Wilson
self-betterment. Not onlj have labor
organizations been given the right to
exist but the activities necessarj to make
those organizations effective have been
declared legitimate and not contrary to
ail law of the United States.
The American seamen, the las,t group
of workers who could under law be
compelled to perform compulsory serv
ice, have been Inadc free men and given
the right to quit their ships when in
safe harbors.
After inanv jcar.s of effort a child la
bor law has been secured, due directly
to the influence and , intervention of
President Wilson. The law is funda
mental, for it protects ihe children the
future citizens of the countr and se
cures for them an opportunity to develop
into manhood and womanhood without
being stunted and dwarfed in mind and
bod by work unsuited to their develop
ment and strength.
Due to the initiative of President Wil
son, the congress extended the United
States eight-hour law to include the
workmen engaged in the operation of
tin. r:iilrn.-nl train service of the coun-
I tr and a great national strike was thus
averted. k
It is impossible to give the full list
of remedial and protective legislation
that carries its beneficent influences into
the homes or millions of America's
workers. We can only refer to that
Endorsed
7ie Building Trades Council
Passes Resolution "That In as Much as The Labor Advo
cate Is the Property of the Council, That All Articles
Appearing Therein Must Be Approved By the Coun
cil." A Great Mass of Routine Business Transacted.
The regular meeting of the lluilding i considerable discussion oer the fact
Trades Council was called to order with t that the trustees that signed the pubbsh
Vicc President Fisher in the chair. ed statement that the Building Trades
The minutes of the previous meeting Council was not in sjmpathy with the
were read and adopted. A communica-1 criticism of John 15. Campbell. The mat
tion from the Sheet Metal Workers Xo j tcr occupied the floor for some time,
Ml stated that John Gries had been ap- and the following motion was adopted
pointed a delegate for the council "That inasmuch as the Lator Advocate
Itrother Gries being present was obli-, is the property of the council, all articles
gated, and he stepped oer to the secrc- printed in it should be approved b the
tan and handed him a communication, Council." , , . .
.... ., . r All trades reported business good
requesting that the council report Prcsi-1 There i,c;nR'no otiier business, the
dent Wilson for re-election, which was meeting adjourned until next Thursda
ordered received and filed. There was night.
change in the spirit of the nation that is
of more consequence than statutory en
actment, with broader appreciation of
the rights of humanit and the alue of
the human relationships necessar in the
co-ordination which is the basis for in
dustn, and commerce. It is as if the
national thought and the national spirit
had been humanized and had become
more sensitive not onlj to injustice but
to the rights and opportunities that
ought to be accorded to all human be
ings. The issue is clear-cut.
On X'mrailior 7th election' da a de
cision will be made which will determine
the future development of our country
and the spirit of our national life for
cars to come.
As representatives of the organized
:i1mr movement, which is the militant
protective organization of all the worker.-,
and which stands primarily for hu
man rights, WE URGE THAT THE I
ISSUES I!E CONSIDERED AT A,
REGULAR OR SPECIAL MEETING
HELD BY YOUR ORGANIZATION.
The meeting should be a general one,
and, if necessar, called specialh for
the mirnosc of seeing that those who
have so much at stake should go to the
polls to protect their interests.
There is no doubt that the interests
of Wall s'trcet and their satellites all
over the country are and will continue
their activit to retain the special priv
ileges and power that thev have se
cretivel.v and corruptl stolen from the
people.
While propcrt must be protected and
respected, man men, women and chil
dren, human beings must have the first
consideration.
Wage-earners can not afford to lose
their rights and opportunities through
negligence and inaction.
Meet, discuss the great issues to be
decided on, election da.v, November 7th,
and then go to the polls, cast our vote
as jour conscience directs for Labor,
justice, freedom and humanit.
Fraternally jours.
Sam'i.. GoMI'FKs,
President, A. F. of L.
Jas. O'Connh-l,
Vice-President, A. F. of L.
Frank Mohkisox,
Sccretarj, A. F. of L.
Labor Representation Committee,
American Federation of Labor.
Washington. 1). C. Oct. M, l'.ilii.
TKX 1'KH rKNT KOU .MOIiDKItS.
Lancaster, Pa. Announcement 's made
that the molders cmplojed by ( e Car
bon Steel compau) have had th wages
advanced 10 per cent. Sever. I weeks
ago an advance of S per cent was also
given them by the coinpaii. Da) la
borers were also increased, about one
hundred being affected.
the Champion of
Labor's Political Success
Based on Non-Partisanship
The Ijiibor Itcpri'si'iitutioii
Coiniiilltt'c, consisting; of l'rt-s-i(I-nt
(iiniiptM's, Vice President
O'C'oiinell mid Secretary Mor
rison of the A. F. of h., lias
issued a call to organized la
bor to consider the issues in
volved in the present political
cainpalgn at a regular or spe
einl meeting of their unions,
and urges that all workers go
to the polls on election day,
November 7, and protect their
interests.
The Labor ltepresontntloii
Committee was appointed by
the eeeutie council of the
A. K. of li. in 1906, when the
American Federation of Tjituni'
decided to more vigorously
urge its nonpartisan political
pulley that trade unionists
disregard political lines and
reward their friends and pun
ish their enemies.
The success of this policy
lias been iiuequaled in the
history of the world's trade
union movement and the La
bor Ilepresentntion Commit
tee, following its usual policy,
presents the issues involved in
this campaign and calls on all
workers to go to the polls on
November 7 ami vote us their
conscience directs for labor,
justice, freedom and humanity.
"The American labor move
ment is not partisan to a poli
tical parly; It is partisan to a
principle, the principle of
equal rights and human free
dom." Denver convention of
the A. 1 of L., 1908.
a
Ol'POSK IIOXCS SVSTKM.
Baltimore About 300 cmplojcs of
the Poole Engineering and Machinery
company are on strike against the pres
ent system of giving bonuses and want
an increase of 15 per cent in wages.
