TELE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 192.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, OCTORER .28, 1016.
oxn cvs' v.
TOOK QUARRY
BY GRENADES
French' Advanced Northeast
of Fort Douaumont
Last Night
ARTILLERY DUEL
KEPT UP TO-DAY
On Somme Front There Was
j-, Only an Intermittent
Bombardment
Par!, Oct. 28. French forces In the
region of Verdun last night captured by
the use of hand grenades a quarry held
by the Germans northeast of Fort Douau
mont, the war -office announces. A brisk
artillery duel continue in the region of
Douaumont.
On the Somme front last night, the
statement adds, there was an intermit
tent artillery bombardment. ,
Last night's official statement was as
follows t
"On the Somme front there has been
considerable artillery activity , by both
aides in the sectors of Sailly-Saillisel,
Bouchavesnes and Biaches.
"North of Verdun the enemy to-day
directed a continuous violent bombard
ment against our first line, especially on
Haudromont ravine, Douaumont fort and
the Damloup battery. An attempted en
emy attack west of the village of Douau
mont was absolutely checked by our cur
tain of fire."
HISHOVA CAPTURED
BY TEUTON ALLIES
Town on Danube River North of Rail
road Line Fell Before Von Mack
ensen's Advance.
Sofia, Friday, via London, Saturday,
Oct. 28. The Teutonic allies in Dobrud
ja, under command of Von Mackcnsen,
have occupied Tishova on the Danube
river, about 40 miles north of the Tcher-navoda-Constanza
line, says a Bulgarian
official statement.
RIDICULED WILSON'S SPEECH.
Hushes Cites Figure in Address at
Rochester.
Rochester, N. Y., Oct. 28. Charles K
Hughes last night replied to statements
in President 'Wilson's Cincinnati speech
concerning preparations to meet com
mercial competition after the war.
lie cited statistics of imports in an
swer to the president's declaration that
everything exported from the United
States to supply armies does not total
one per cent of the total of American
commerce. After stating the increases
in chemicals, brass, breastuffs, iron and
steel, cotton and other commodities, Mr.
Hughes declared that exportations of ex
plosives, including cartridges, had in
creased from $5,000,000 to $487,000,000
in one year, with an increase in total
exports of $2,000,000.
"Why, if you had the greatest distress
in this country," Mr. Hughes said, "you
would still have a tremendous volume of
commerce and trade. It does not take
much to contract the prosperity of this
country, to destroy the prosperity of this
country. Tho great percentage of our
exchanges and of our commerce would
continue, even if we were in very seri
ous straits."
President Wilson's suggestion that we
need not fear Europe's commercial ag
gression after the war and that the anti
dumping clause would protect us, any
way, reminded Mr. Hughes of the story
of the man charged with the theft of a
copper kettle who was ready with two
defenses: First, that he never saw the
kettle and never stole it;, and second,
that the kettle had a hole in it anyway.
TEUTONS DEEP.
lit RUMANIA
THREE DISEASES IN VERMONT.
White Pine Blister Rust is Making Con
. sidersble Headway.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 28. Declaring
that white pines valued at $261,000,000
are threatened with destruction by the
white pine blister rust, the American
forestry association, of this city, to
Have Reached Campillung, P urging that every precaution be
. r " taken to prevent the spread of the dis
ease, which has already found a secure
20 Miles Inside the
Border
HAVING FORCED
foothold in New England and other east
era states, and in Canada.
ins disease is already progressing in
Mains, New Hampshire, Vermont. Mas'
sachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island,
New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Wisconsin. Minnesota and in the nrov-
PREDE AL PASS iacfl of Ontrio nd Quebec in Canada
mew zone ana Wisconsin nave estao-
lished a rigid quarantine, and various
state agricultural boards have urged
jl.i j r - J ...I. .' . : .
OampUIUng IS Only 80 MlleS and gooseberry bushes be shippedj that
"NTnyfVnirocf n-f T3n infected bushes, and infected pines be
iMUrLIlW.eSG OI X5U- destroyed, and in some cuea that there
Charest shall be no shipment from state to state
ui imo pine rfuimgn, gooaeuerry or
currant bushes whether they are known
to be infected or not. There is no known
ltii fnr fit A a If t-itta H'.liit
i-onaon. wt. .ttf.-rman . troops on ninesMnfected and it snrada steadily
the Transylvania front have reached The spores or seeds of the disease are
Campulung, 20 miles within the Ruma- "'own irom diseased pines to currant
nian border, ssys a Petrograd despatch rf,"7 TT" V"? ere
i m. m , on the leaves of these busnes. These
10 ino jiromcie. h-. ;.J v i t i,.
WILSON HOME AGAIN.
He Reached Shadow Lawn Late Last
Evening.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 28. President
Wilson returned here last night from his
trip to Cincinnati, which marked his last
appearance in the Middle West before
the election. He arrived here at fl:45
o'clock and motored directly to Shadow
Lawn. He shook hands with crowds as
he passed through West Virginia, Mary
land and Pennsylvania.
The president's speeches here between
now and election will be devoted chiefly
Campnlunir is about 33 miles southeast
of Piredeal pass, recently forced by the
Herman troops, and about 80 miles north
west of Bucharest, the Rumanian capital,
It is a summer resort in the valley of
the iranaylvanian Alps and has a popu
lation OI 1JKK).
INITIATIVE STARTED
TV TT? A MCVT V A "NIT A setl pines and those exposed to infec-
ii Aivmxoii-i vaxiia tion Thii wiU hep gtop the Bpr(a(1
bushes to the pines, and trees are infect
ed, become diseased snd die.
The white pines in New England are
worth $75,000,000; in the Lake states
$96,000,000; in the western states, $60,-
000,000; and in national forests, $30,000,
000, or a total of $261,000,000.
The American Forestry association
urges people in all the sections where
the- disease has been discovered to de
stroy currant and gacseberry bushes, dis
Rumanians and Russians Are Said to I
Have Begun New Move
ments '
of the disease.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
ljondon, Oct. lis. teutonic pressure
against the Kumamans and Russians in
Transvlvania appears to have been
to efforts to carry New York and his I stopped indefinitely, says a telegram re- closure of a mortgage on his stock of
, i . -. . . ' : .... j i . i ir i n. . e t. I j .. T A .. : A ' t ... :il r , i .
nome state ot iew jersey, tins aner-1 c-iru "j -o rrrss jrom nu- m cimm u jomuier, n
noon he will speak at Shadow Lawn to charest. Kumamans and Russians, ac- grocery merchant, yesterday filed a pe
David W. Smith of Poultney, Foreclosed,
Goes Ia'.o Bankruptcy.
Rutland, Oct. 28. Following the fore
EMPEROR WAS
NEAR DEATH
GOOD ENTERTAINMENT.
Bomb Fell on Forward End
of His Train on West
ern Front
KILLED ENGINEER,
ZURICH REPORT
It Was a Well-Directed Shot
from an Entente
Aeroplane
Paris, Oct. 28. A bomb dropped bv an
aviator of the entente allies killed the
engineer driving the train o Emperor
wuimm ot Uermany, according to mfor
ruation received at Zurich, (Switzerland.
ELOPEMENT ALLEGED.
TRENCH MORTARS ACTIVE.
On British Front Where Operations Were
Hindered by Rain.
London, Oct. 28. The official com
munication issued by the war office last
night says:
"The heavy rain continued during the
'day. Hostile artillery and trench mor
tars were active between La Bassee
and Hulluch and in the neighborhood of
Beaumont and He.mel. We bombarded
enemy trenches south of Armentieres.
"Yesterday enemy aeroplanes showed
unusual activity. Aerial engagements
took place between large number of ma
chines on both sides. It is reported that
five machines fell during a fight, two of
which were ours."
an audience made up mostly of New
Yorkers, and next Wednesday and Thurs
day he will deliver addresses in Buffalo
and ew iork, respectively. He will
make his last speech of the campaign
Nov. 4 at at a New Jersey celebration at
Shadow Lawn.
MONTPELIER
ITALIAN GUNS DESTRUCTIVE.
Austrian Positions Were Destroyed In
the Lagariaa Valley.
Rome, via London, Oct. 28. The offl
eial communication issued yesterday
says
"In the Lagarina valley the accurate
fire of one of our batteries destroyed the
site of the enemy headquarters and some
stores at Isera, west of Rover.
"On the Julian front the enemy's ar
tillery has increased its sctivity from
Vertoibizz to the sea. OuA batteries
replied with effect and caused the ex
plosion of two ammunition depots in the
Austrian lines." .
RUSSIANS RETREAT.
Forced Back by Violent Attack by Ans-tro-German
Forces.
Petrograd, via London, Oct. 8. Aus-tro-Oerman
forces launched a series of
violent attacks sgainst Russian and Ru
manian positions on both banks of the
river Bystritsa in the region of Dorna
Watra yesterday, says an official state
ment, compelling the Russian advanced
posts to abandon two heights,
MORE STEAMERS SUNK.
Two Norwegian and One British Vessel
, . Sacrificed.
London, Oct. 28. The Norwegian
steamer Bygdo Las been sunk off Chris
tiania, Norway, and the crew has land
ed, says a Lloyds dispatch. The same
agency reports the British steam traw
ler Fuchsia has been sunk and the crew
imprisoned in Germany. The Norwegian
steamer Fritzce has been taken to Cux-haven.
Court Takes Brewster Case Under Con
sideration.
A recess was taken yesterday after
noon in county court by Judge Fish un
til next week, all the testimony in the
Mildred Brewster case being finished and
the matter taken under advisement by
the court. It is expected that next week
two state cases will be tried, one being
State vs. Wilbur Thornton, charged with
assault and robbery. J. Ward Carver
has been appointed by the court to de
fend the man, who is without funds.
One of the best football games of the
local season will be staged at Intercity
part at 3 o'clock this afternoon when
St. Albans high, defeated a week ago on
their home field for the first time in two
years, will endeavor to turn the table
on Montpelier high. A victory for Mont
pelier will practically clinch the cham
pionship for them and a defeat for St.
Albans means their elimination as a con
tender. Montpelier will be without the
services of Mack snd Pembrooke.
Mr. and Mrs. A. Bernsdini, who have
been passing two weeks in Montreal,
returned home this morning.
Judge and Mrs. E. M. Harvey and
daughter left last evening for Colchester
t spend several days with relatives.
Frederick Mason, who is at Heatpn
hospital with typhoid fever, is slowly im
proving. It was erroneously stated that
Walter Mason was ill at the hospital,
Frederick, being a younger brother.
Miss Laura Bur bank has returned
from St. Johnsbury, where she spent tn
week with her mother.
cording to the message, are taking the ition in bankruptcy with the clerk of
initiative in operations in thm field. It the United States court, F. S. Piatt. At
s estimated bv Rumanian military offi
rials that the losses of the Austro-Ger
mans in Transylvania total 80,000,
tornev George W. Piatt is counsel for
the petitioner.
Air. Smith has unsecured claims of
$1910 snd secured claims of $1875 with
about $700 in ansets of which $;i.i0 is
claimed exempt. James J. Thomas of
KKTintnii Pa halA m n.nW..n. f tlSTC
TREMENDOUS DRIVE against the .iU and this was foreclosed,
about $1200 being realized on the sals
RUSSIANS BEGIN
Telegram Received In Rome from German l" th balance of $800 is covered by a
Source Reports Indications of Great
Movement in Galicia and
Poland.
The Vermont creditors include W. W,
Broughton of Poultney. $110; Tait
Brothers of Fair Haven, $18: George H.
Cross of St. Johnsbury, $&8, Mr. Smith
London, Oct. 28.-A telegram received owed $24.33 in taxes. A majority of the
. tj , frrtm 0 n-mn r- rflnnrTfl I creditors ar wholesale jeTor.
Vermont Couple Packed Their Trunk for
Milwaukee.
Middlebury, Oct. 28. The people of
the quiet village of East Middlebury
were somewhat surprised yesterday
when they learned that Miss Louise Har
rington, daughter of Mr. snd Mrs. Eu
gene Harrington of that village and
ljuirentian I.adue, -whose home was for
merly in Bristol notch, had eloped on
the sleeper Thursday night with their
baggage, bound as Ladue stated to
friend, for Milwaukee, Wis.
Ladue stated that their marriage had
been objected to, and they were going
to take matters into their own hands
He at one time worked in Milwaukee and
came east some time aeo and located
near his fiancee, Miss Harrington having
been employed at the farm of EIroy Ses
sions in East Middlebury.
Thursday evening they secured a team
from Mr. Sessions and taking their
worldly possession in a trunk headed
for Milwaukee, The team was put up
at the Addison horse stable, and with no
objections on the part of anybody they
lelt for the brewery town.
TALK OF THE TOWN
there are indications of the beginning of
a tremendous new .Russian offensive in
Galicia and Poland, says a despatch to
the Wireless Press. .
DODGED ONE AUTO.
RUMANIA STRUGGLES HARD.
DEMANDS FREE HAND.
Prospective Austrian Premier's Appoint
ment Held Up.
Vienna, Thursday, via London, Satur
day, Oct. 28. It may be accepted as cer
tain that Dr. Von Koerber, now Auetro
Hungarian minister of finance, will suc
ceed the late Count Karl Stuergkh as
premier. It is understood that Koerber
is willing to accept, but official announce
ment is delayed because he demands a
free hsnd.
TALK OF THE TOWN
E. Broggini went to Burlington this
morning to psss the week-end with rels
tives. Last evening the members of the Bth
sny Girls of the Baptist church met at
the home of Miss Delorss F. IVach of 107
Prospect street, who is a member of that
class. The evening was tpcnt in playing
games and music. Just before the re
freshments were served. Miss Ruby Lew
is, on behalf of:he irls, presented the
hostess a pretty rut glass dish in honor
of her approaching marriage to Everett
C Rogers.
Dabbling with the Courts.
One of the state papers credited the
St. Johnsbury Republican with the sug
gestion that the superior judges be
merged with the supreme court, not
to exceed nine in number, and the abol
ishment of the municipal courts. The sug
gestion was made by the Caledonian, and
the Republican comes back at it in this
manner:
"The Republican never made anv such
foolish suggestion. We do not believe
in it. We believe the judicial machin
ery of this state is in pretty good run
ning order as it is and should not be dab
bled with at every session of the legis
lature."
Regarding the fear of dabbling with
the courts at each session of the legis
lature we would simply call attention to
the fact there has been no session of the
legislature in recent years that acts have
nofbeen passed to incresse the number
of judges or establish a municipal court
with a new judge. The Republican may
name one if it can. It would appear
that dabbling with the courts is not
dangerous so long as it gives more jobs
to lawyers, but is nndersirable whenever
the people want to rearrange matters to
get more for their money.
Perhaps it will be well to compare the
cost of courts in Vermont with some
other states. The "Financial Statistics
of States" for 1915 issued by the cen
sus bureau shows the costs of courts in
Vermont ' with an estimated population
of 381 .828. for that yesr to be $2!78;
in New Hampshire with a population of
438.021, $71,715; in Maine with a popu
lation of 762.787, $82,067; in Minnesota
with a population of 2,200,2.15. $4!),14.
Thee figures indicate a need on the
part of the voters to dabble a little with
the Vermont courts. St. Johnsbury Cal-edonisn.
But Failed to Heed Approach of Another
and Was Hurt.
Enosburg Falls, Oct. 28. An antomo
To Evade the Grip of Two Invading P'1, Jriven bv, Addie Sinclair of
jiciivoiuic muxitfu uown ana injurea tr
uest Tanner of the same town Thursday
London Oct 28. Rumania, caught in morning near the farm of Frank Blair
the grip of two invading forces of the The young man was walking to keep
central powers is still strutrKlimr des- warm behind a team driven by his fa
perately to ward off the incessant at- tner, franK tanner, C6.iimg to market
tacks of f ield Marshal von juacicensen vim a cow, ana two cars a little distance
and General Von Falkenhayn. apart came up behind them. The first
Advancing northward in Dobrudja, tooted so the young man readily got out
Von Mackensen's troops have reached of the way, but got back before he heard
a line running from Hirsova, on the Dan- the signal of the last car, which threw
ube, to Casapkeui, on the Black sea him down and passed over his legs, dis
cosst, from forty to sixty miles from locating one ankle. He was brought to
where they crossed the LTonstanza-Tcher- tne rooms oi vr. n. n. i nomas, wnere nis
navoda railway line. The capture of injuries were eared for, and he was later
Hirsova would give to the Teutonic al- taken to bis home. The other occupants
liea the advsntace of havinir little oi tne car were nev. ana jure. r. ra
marshv around to traverse should they denburg of Enosburg and George Sinclair
attempt to make, a crossing of the river oi xierKBinxe,
here into Old Rumania, as the low ly
ing ground virtually disappears for some
distance around Hirsova.
General Von Falkenhayn continues to
make progress in the direction of Cam
pulung, south of 1'redeal, on the Tran
sylvania front, and Bucharest forces in
DIDN'T PAY BONDSMEN.
Edward Holoomb of Vergennes Placed
Under Arrest."
Middlebury, Oct. 28 Edward Holcomb
the Jiul valley, which is situated in the of Vergennes, arrested In Rutland a few
Vulvan pass region. days ago, was brought to the Middlebury
jail, oeing wanted on a cnarge ot burg
DENIES LOnfiE'S STATEMENT lary. tne immediate cause ot ms arrest
was me decision oi ms Donasmen to
.t.rv Er.nHin V T... ma v.t. avoid me responsibility. Jioicorab was
, . ..... , . ...... ..
at Atlantic City. chant's row, Rutland, where he had been
Atlantic City, N. J.. Oct. 28. Franklin working for a few weekir Holcomb will
K. Lane, secretary of the interior, issued undoubtedly remsin in the Addisun coun-
a statement here last night denying the ty jail until the December term of Ad
eharge made by Senator Henry Cabot dison county court. The young man
Ivodge in a speech at Hrookton, Mass., when he secured his bondsmen promised
Thursday night that President Wilson to pay them so much a week, so that
had added a postscript to the second Lus- when the trial came off in December he
itania note informing the German gov'
ernment that the contents of the so
called strict accountability" note were
"not to be taken seriously" and that the
postscript had disappeared after members
of the cabinet threatened to resign if it
was attached to the note.
CARRANZA A CANDIDATE
"Good morning, Nora," said Mrs. Rog
ers. "Was the grocer's boy impudent to
you spain this morning when you 'phoned
the order InT"
"He wss that," complained Nora, "but
I fixed him this time. I sex: 'Who in
biases do you think you're talking to?
This is Mrs. Refers. " Haryer's.
Formally Announced Himself at Mexico
City.
Mexico City, Oct. 28. Gen. Venustisno
Carranza formally announced his candi
dacy for. the presidency yesterday in re
sponse to a manifesto of the new Constitutionalist-Liberal
party, which urged
him to run for the office and offered him
its support.
In acceptance Gen. Carranza said that
if by the vote of the people they made
him president he would cause to be
obeyed the laws under the constitution.
Generals Gonzales and Obregon took
the oath of loyalty to den. Carranza.
- Gen. Gonzales ssid the acceptance of
Gen. Carranza marked the necessary re
turn to constitutional order which was
the national aspiration. Gen. Obregon
assured Gen. Csrranza that he and all
the men who hsd accompanied him
through revolution would serve loyally
after the election.
would be prepared to meet the expenses
of the case, which he failed to do, his
arrest following.
BUSINESS FOR HARDWICK.
Woodbury Granite Co. Gets a $100,000
Contract.
Hardwick, Oct. 28. A telegram re
ceived yesterday afternoon from General
Manager William C. Clifford brought the
news that the Woodbury Granite Co. of
Hardwick has been awarded the contract
to furnish $100,000 work in Woodbury
gray granite for the Mercantile Trust
Co. building to be erected in St. Louis.
The general contract has been awarded
the Wimmer Construction Co., and the
Woodbury Granite Co. as sub-contractors
have undertaken to supply the required
granite work, delivered and set in place
in the building.
WINDSOR MAN HONORED.
"
He Do you really believe that
stolen goods must be restored ?
She Of course I do.
He Then, since my conscience
troubling me, will you let me return yon
the kiss I stole last night t Baltimore
American.
an
is
Albert C. Campbell Given a Bronre Med
al for Heroism.
rittsburg, Oct. 28. Among the 52 acts
W. Ober Brown returned this forenoon
to Jiis home in Newport, after a week's
business visit in the citv
John Redmond and his son left last
night for Boston, where they are making
a business visit of a week
Mrs. W. W. Reid left this morning for
outh Kyegate, where she is passing sev
era I days with her mother.
John Black of Laurel street went to
Hardwick this morning to assist Hard
wick golfers in laflng out a new golf
course.
frank Jackson returned to his home
yesterday after attending meetings of
the Odd Fellows at St. Johnsburv and
Wells River.
Miss Bcrtlia McLean of Northfield vis
ited her brother. John R. McLean, yester
day and with other relatives in this city
and Montpelier.
Mrs. .1. M. Seaver returned yesterday
to her home in Williamstown after pass
ing a few days in the city as the guest of
Mr. and Mr. E. L. House of West street.
'Miss Eunice Thompson, who has been
visiting relatives on South Main street
during the past week left this morning
for her home in Lisbon, N. II.
Henry A. Tierney of Central street,
who is' employed by the American Ex
press Co.. received a telegram yesterday
advising him of the death of his nephew,
t he son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tiemey of
Snrincfield, Mas., who passed away in a
hospital following injuries which he re
ceived in a fall. Mr. Tierney left early
this morning for Springfield to attend
the funeral.
An automobile operated by Joseph Co-
molli and owned by Jones Bros.' Co. ran
into a fox terrier nesr the Keith avenue
intersection of North Main street this
forenoon. Mr. Comolli stopped his car
and went bark to examine the dog. He
was joined bv C. L. Bugbee, who claimed
the terrier as his own, the dog having
been a. favorite of the owner for several
years. Scrutiny of the animal's under
pinning Indicated that one of the fore
legs was fractured. Mr. Comolli stated
that he saw the dog as he came bowling
along the street, nut was unprepared
when it jumped in front of hiB car.
Spaulding high school freshmen held a
joyous Halloween party m the assembly
hall last evening, nenrly every member
of the class and a part of the faculty be
injr present. The hall was sttractively
decorated and most ot the students were
in costume. Earl Lane impersonated
Charlie Chaplin and Burton Jones was
dressed as Uncle Sam. Others who were
masked were: Lucy Wells as pierrotte
dancer, Ruth Veino ss the queen of night
and Isabel Beattie as the gypsy queen.
Such pastimes as "The King and Queen
of Sheba" and "Mother Superior" were
played and Miss Partridge of the faculty
read fortunes. There was much of
marching, music being furnished by the
teachers. Punch and wafers were served
by Misses Muriel Beattie and Mabel Mc
Leod and Gordon Reardon and Aubrey
Marrion. The committee consisted of the
following students: Helen Roscoe, Lucy
Wells. Ruth Veino, Isabel Beattie. Hath
erine Brown, Burton Jones, Leslie Ladd,
Llewellyn Jones and Virgil Johnson.
Officers from Vergennes who gsve chase
yesterday to four boys who escaped from
the 'state industrial school snd left the
village in sn automobile continued their
Featured Second Evening of Clan Gor-
don and Auxiliary.
The second evening's entertainment of
the annual joint fair under the HUpices
of Clan Gordon No. 12. 0. S. C and the
ladies' auxiliary, in Howland hall last
evening, proved to be as successful as
the first night of the fair. The crowd
measured up to the standard, being as
large as could readily bo cared for
through the entertainment before the
dance, and the hall was crowded to
overflowing after the dafice was in or
der. During the eutire evening, the la
dies at the apron booth, fancy booth
and the booth of kitchen and conlec
tionery were kept busy, doing a whole
sale business at all counters.
The feature of the evening was the
playlet, "The Queen o the May," a pret
ty cantata by Miss Edith Watson, Miss
Gltdya Rhind, Georcre Stewart and 25
little girls and bovs, who brought them
selves great credit for their work. Time
and again the youthful singers were
heartily applauded by the audience in
their enthusiasm over the excellence of
the production. Tho cast is as follows:
"Florence," the teacher, Miss Edith Wat
son; "rredericK, her suitor, ueorgs
Stewart; "Queen. Miss Gladvs Khind;
"Maids of honor," Misses Jeniiio Milne,
Harzel Stewart, Ruth Armstrong, Ma
bel Stephen, Marion Robertson and Mar
garet Farrar; herald, Gilbert Phillips;
color bearer, Gilbert Robertson; flower
girls,. Dorothy Phillips, Rosio Clubb,
Edith Cooper, Clara Gibson, Violet Milne,
and 13 little girls, who were members
of the chorus. Later in the evening lov
ers of dancing were privileged to glide
around the hall, with music by Carroll's
orchestra, until 12 o'clock.
To-night will wind up the fair with a
very appropriate program, consisting of
solos and musical selections which will
be of a very different nature from that
of the two previous, evenings, with a
dance following the entertainment. The
committees were the same as on the first
night, everyone on the committees work
ing their hardest to make the gair a suc
cess that it is.
IGUESTS FLOCK
TOSHnoWLAWN
For Dr e Celebration of
Woor t Wilson Day and
7 jire State Day
FUNERAL OF FIRE VICTIM
Was Held at Northfield on Friday After
noon.
Northfield, Oct. 28. The funeral of
Mrs. Emma (Clough) Benjamin, who lost
her life when the Northfield house was
burned on Tuesday morning, was held
yesterday afternoon at the Congrega
tional church, Rev. James B. Sargent
officiating. A quartet consisting of N. W.
Richmond, Prof. S. F. Howard, Frank C.
Dunham and Cadet Shaw sang "Abide
with Me" and "Lead Kindly Light." Bur
ial was in the Elmwood cemetery here,
the bearers being Mrs. Benjamin's five
brothers, M. J., Henry and William
Clough of Northfield, Carl Clough of
Barre and' George Clough of Thetford.
An examination of the ruins is reveal
ing quite a quantity of the valuables of
the occupants of the building the night of
the fire. Frank Colvin of Pawlet, a guest
at the hotel, who escaped with nothing
but his night clothes, a pair of trousers
and an overcoat, went to his home in
Pawlet and telegraphed back if any of
his things were found that they be kept
for him. Meanwhile he purchased a new
traveling bag, a new watch and complete
new set of clothing. Mr, Colvin returned
to Northfield Thursday and found in the
ruins of the hotel his traveling bag, al
most unscorched, and together with it his
watch, his clothing and his order sheets.
James A. McMann also was fortunate
n finding in the ruins the pair of trous
ers which he wore the day before the fire
nd which he placed over the back of a
chair in his room when he retired Jtton
av nittht. Nearly all the trousers was
burned except the top part and in a
pocket he found $75 which he supposed
had been lost forever. The money was
somewhat singed, but has been sent to
the treasury department.
GREATEST CROWD
EVER ASSEMBLED
Is Expected to Participate
in the Ceremonies
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 28. The dou
ble celebration of Woodrow Wilson day
and Empire State day was in progress
at Shadow Lawn to-day. While Demo
cratic meetings in honor of the president
were being held in other states, Wilson
prepared to address delegations here of
organized Democrats, independent Pro
gressives and women and children, most
ly from Jvew York.
The vanguard of the New York visit
ors began to arrive early and the Demo
cratio leaders expected the largest crowd
yet assembled at Shadow Lawn. A spe
cial car carrying women and children of
factories was a feature.
VALUABLE PAINTING SLASHED.
Three Cuts In Picture at State House
Repaired.
State House employes to-day complet
ed the hanging of the big painting, "First
Vermont Urigade, Hattlc of Cedar Creek."
in the reception room, it having been tak
en down two weeks aaro, after it was
discovered that some miscreant had
slashed three holes in the valuable pic
ture. The cuts were made almost exactly
in the center of the painting, all close
together, the longest one being about
three inches in length. The holes were
evidently made by a grown person, as the
slashes were made nearly six feet from
the floor. The holes have been patclicd
up, and an artist will be engaged to rem
edy the damage. The picture was paint
ed by Julian Scott and is very valuable.
The discovery of the damage was made
Columbus dav.
TALK OF THE TOWN
C. L. U. OFFICERS CHOSEN.
At Regular Meeting of Organization Last
Evening.
Officers were elected and routine busi
ness was transacted at the regular meet
ing of the Central Labor union of Barre
nd vicitnTT last evening, when a size
able representation of the several trades
represented in the central body came to
gether. The officers who are to serve
during the ensuing six months are: Pres
ident, Alexander Ironside; vice-president,
Cyrus R, Hall; secretary, Angus McDon
ald; treasurer, Fred W. Suitor; sergeant
at arms, J. T. Callaghan; executive
board, Harry Dale, F. W. Suitor, E. N.
Philbrick; librarian, Angus McDonald;
auditors. E. N. Philbrick, H. J. Houghton
and C. R, Hall.
Copies of the proceedings, constitution
and by-laws of the 15th annual conven-'
tion of the state branch of A. F. of L.,
which was beld in Barre last August,
were distributed to the members.- The
copies, neatly bound, were issued from
the Roberts printery in this city.
SENT BACK TO CANADA.
Jack Allen Refused to Show Passports
on Leaving Montreal.
St. Albans, Oct. 28. Jack Allen, who
was taken from a train on his arrival
in this city Thursday morning by Unit
ed States Immigration Officer J. P. John
son as he had refused to show his pass
ports when he left Montreal, was taken
back to the Canadian line yesterday by
Officer Johnson on a representation of
the military authorities at Ottawa that
Allen had absconded from Renfrew, Ont,
with $5,000 belonging to the Canadian
government.
Allen claims he is a lieutenant in the
24"th battalion of the Canadian army
and has been in France 18 months.
Local officers found over $1,(HH) on Al
len's person and he savs he has $4,600
journey to Barre, in the afternoon, irt'ter i in the Renfrew bank, the money being
the quartet, which included Oorgc Troup
and Robert Donald of this city, bad b'evn
located in Richmond. I pon their arrival
here, they requested the local police to
locate llliara ("lieef") Fisnehi, ho
of heroism recognized by the Carnegie ! returned to the state institution with
Hero Fund commission at its fall meet-1 them, despite the protestation of rcla-
ing here yesterday was thst of Allert ! ives thst the boy wss on a vacation that
C Campbell of 33 Academy street, Wind
sor, Vt, who waved Frank H. Morse,
aged 9, from drowning at Claremont,
N. H.. Oct. 27, 1912. Campbell, with the
aid of another man, prevented the child
from being swept over a fifteen-foot
dam. Campbell is 26 years of see and
hsdn t expired. "Heef hss been so
journing in Barre since he came bark
from a hurried trip to Nashua, N. H.,
late in the summer. The Vergennes offi
cer stated that young Donald and an
other lad gae them a warm chase in
Rirbmond, although Troup and his com
a machinist. He was awsrded a bronze rade gave themselves up as soon as thvy
medat lor Bis scu recognised their captors.
earned while in the trenches, including
back pay and extra pay for being wound
ed. The military authorities ordered
Canadian OiTu-er Demars to take charge i stricken, if the first surmise of the day
Leon McAllister of Williamstown was
brought to the City hospital last even
ing for an operation, which was per
formed this morning.
Miss Emma Brown of Williamstown,
who underwent a serious operation st
the City hospital more than two months
ago, has fully recovered and returned to
her home to-dav.
Miss Annie Brown of Basset t street
has returned to the city, after passing
a few days with her "brother, Robert
Brown, in Windsor.
Mrs. Fred Hall returned to her home
in Chelsea to-day, after visiting at tho
home of her daughter, Mrs. Roderick
Cameron of Washington street, since the
first of the week.
Labor men in Barre are in receipt of a
neatly gotten-up brochure, containing tho
constitution and by-laws of tho Vermont
state branch of the A. F. of L., together
with the preamble and declaration of
principles and the proceedings at the last
annual meeting of the state federation
in Barre
Eight couples from Northfield and
Barre gathered at the, Bancroft inn in
Plainfield Thursday evening and were
welcomed by Landlord W. H. Snow, who
formerly managed the City hotel in
Barre. Dinner was served and after
ward there was an impromptu program
of dancing and cards. Mr. Snow looked
carefully after the wants of his guests
and a very enjoyable evening was passed.
the Altrurians observed domestic sci
ence day at the home of Mrs. Harry
Parks Friday afternoon, with nearly ail
the members present and one visitor.
After a short business session, the doors
of the prettily decorated dining room
were thrown open and the ladies found
their places at the table by means of the
pretty autumn leaf place cards, the com
mittee in charge being Mrs. C. A. Dodge,
Mrs. Parks and Mrs. Johnson. Personal
cookery anecdotes were given by the
members m response to rollcall and read
ings were given by Mrs. Bishop and Mrs.
Richardson. By a rising vote, the ladies
extended thanks to their hostess and the
committee for the delightful afternoon.
The favors for the afternoon were dainty
bonbon baskets filled with confectionery.
Among the guests arriving at Hotel
Barre last night snd this morning were
the following people: Mr. and Mrs.
George . Cobb of Rutland, J. G. Under
wood of Hartland, Miss E. D. Proctor and
chauffeur of Frootor, W. E. Colt of New
York Citr. Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Noyes of
Littleton" N. H.. J. O. Sheldon of Woods
ville, N. H., J. W. Psrker and E. B. Bai
ley of Burlington, J. II. Manchester of
Randolph, ex-Gov. A. M. Fletcher and
Clifton Green of Cavendish, Charles Dar
win of Sharon. R. C Shannon of Rut
land, J. J. Walsh of Manchester, Mr. and
Mrs. W. F. Merrill of Brookline, Mass.,
M. L. Daley of Burlington, Mr. snd Mrs.
E. W. Cunningham of Bradford, A. C.
Middleton of Burlington, E. E. Shepsrd
son of Barton. F. I- Richardson of Phila
delphia, and A. S. Van Alstyne of Utica,
N. Y.
Lobby attaches st Hotel Bsrre are
sure that marital difficulties or the high
cost of living is responsible for the self-
destruction of a fat sparrow wlucb they
found suspended from a cornice on the
Firt Baptist church this morning.
Perched on the edje of the improvised
rallnu s the bird s mate, conscience-
of Allen after he was eiven into his
keeping by the American officers. Allen
was put off the train at Iberville. Que.,
Wednesday night by Officer Twohey, who
told him if he came across the line he
would have to arrest him.
F. O. Howland of French street is ex
pected honw to-night from St. Louis.
Mo., whrt-e, as one of the four lay dele
gates from Vermont, he attended th"
rineral convention of the Episcopal
church.
clerk is true, was sinking a patibulary
threnody, its plaintive wail ringing
mournfully up snd down the alley. A
venturesome bellhop who hoped .to sst
isfy his morbid curioity, procured a lad
der and mounted to the cornice. He ex
amined the dead bird minutely and an
nounced in cnroncr-like tones to his pal
In-Iow that death as due to suicide,
ue unknown. Not to be moved by the
coroner's proximity. Mr. Sparrow on the
H!).f of the gallows continued to adver
tise her sorrow.
