H Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 7, 1916 Nol7 H
As To Hyphenated Americans
Hj HP HIS year the Democracy, led by President Wil-
H son, is posing on its pure Americanism; they
H want no "hyphenated Americans."
H Do they never think how grave an injustice to
H millions of foreign-born Americans that remark
H carries with it. Up to two years ago we had been
H) receiving to our shores more than one million for-
H' eigners from Europe. Some of them were bad
H men, for our immigration laws are defective, but
H( the great mass of them were strong and brave
H and true, just such men and women as our race
H has been grafting upon its stock for a hundred
H and fifty years. No one doubts their loyalty to
H1 the United States government; or doubts where
Hl they and their children would stand were we to
H be assailed by a foreign power. And yet those,
Hj or many of those who have come in recent years,
H, and whose memories still magnify the loveliness
Hi of the institutions they were born under, and
B who still have near and dear relatives in the
H lands of their birth, cannot refrain from sympa-
H thizing with both the people and the governments
H of those lands. Would we not be the same way
if we were in a foreign country and our native
H land was under the Juggernaut of a great war?
H Of course, there are some foolish and vicious
H foreign-born people among us who, in their ex-
H citement over what their native lands are suffer-
H ing, find it convenient to denounce the United
H. States. But they are in the aggregate but a'pit-
H iable minority at bef I, and none of them exceed
H in their vindictiveness the American-born Hey-
H wood in his preaching anarchy. If we had our way
H we would herd, corral and brand all these, but
H would not carry the punishment or the suspicion
Bf to decent men who came from the land they did.
H AH the tough ones need is a little discipline. To
H break stones for their board would in a little
H while cure them cure them enough at least to
H make them keep their mouths shut.
H But neither their acts nor thoughts ought to
H cause the antipathy which decent, men hold
VI against them, to extend to the faithful ones who
yjl were born in the same country that they were,
H or to cause our public speakers to declaim against
Ej hyphenated Americans.
H As we run down the lists of the great names of
H our soldiers, statesmen, writers, scholars and
M men of affairs, quite half of them have borne
H foreign names.
B Our race is what has come thrugh the assimi-
H lation of foreigners. Wo have welcomed them to
H our shores since the' beginning; wo have needed
H them as much as they have needed us, let us not
H try to discount them now for that in truth is dis-
B counting ourselves.
g Kill That Proposed Amendment
THE Emma mine had a great surfaco deposit.
It was the first mine that drew especial at-
m tention to Utah., That was forty or more years
m ago. The deposit was worked out. Evor since
B spasmodic superficial attempts have been contin-
B ually made to determine if the orebody did not
j come from another orebody in the depth. At
!" last one game man determined to make a thor
ough exploration to settle tho doubt. It was a
h prolonged and most expensive struggle, but he
--
did not falter and now the deposit has been found
in volume, but how great cannot yet be
known. His friends believe that when fully ex
plored the mine will be a record-breaker.
In southern Utah there are some mountains of
iron ore.
Some experts believe that a part of these de
posits are underlaid with copper. As in the case
of the Emma, for forty years there have been
spasmodic attempts to explore these deposits,
but lack of transportation and a faltering in the
faith of men have prevented anything like thor
ough work.
Should the proposed constitutional amend
ment bo adopted by the voters next month, it
would be a notice served on the owners of those
deposits which, reduced to simple English would
read: "Go' on and open up those deposits, but if
you find anything worth while, it will be the duty
of the assessor to examine your books, and if
you are saving a little more than expenses, it will
be his further duty to multiply your profits by
three for the purposes of taxation.
' It will be the same way with various mining
properties if the present promises reach fruition.
It will be the same way with the coal mines
that are worked in the state, though in case of
coal mines the owners will see to it that the
people who buy coal will pay the tax.
There is a large area in southeastern Utah
which on the surface gives every indication of
great and superior oil deposits at a comparatively
shallow depth.
When the government reserve is lifted from
those lands a great many people will want to re
new their development on the hope of finding
oil.
If this proposed amendment is adopted, men
will fight shy of further explorations, for the
statute books of Utah will stand a bold notice
that the people of this state want no further ex
plorations of their mineral resources, though could
the iron mines and extensive oil deposits bo
opened they would transform southern Utah.
The coal miners only will not fear this amend
ment for they will begin to prepare at once to
make the people who buy their coal pay the tax
by increasing the price of coal, and they will do
it with all the more zest on the thought that the
people's representatives in the legislature under
took to rob them first, and then the people at the
polls ratified the injustice.
We feel certain that tho people will do no such
thing, but will bury the proposed graft so deep
under their ballots that it will be a long time
before another legislature tries another such ex
periment. It belongs to the same category that does the
alfalfa weevil and the San Jose scale.
It reads as though the author of the amend
ment had been bitten by a coyote that had tho
rabies.
A Cowardly Appeal For Votes
MR. WILSON relling his audiences that if
Mr. Hughes it .acted this country will sure
ly be involved in war. Is nqt that a direct appeal
to tho cowardice of the American people. The Sen
Si - I- r -- ,.
timent of the men of this country is that thero H
should never be any war except for two reasons. H
-One is that the honor of the country must be H
maintained, the other is that the situation must H
be intolerable before a war is justified. Mr. H
Wilson sent the fleet to Vera Cruz. He saii it was 1
to vindicate the honor of the country and its H
flag, though it was difficult at tho time o' com- JH
prehend why the circumstances justified his posi- H
tion. He refused to even servo notice on Mex- 9H
ico that unless murder and looting of American IH
citizens on the border ceased, he would stop them. H
After that record it must require a strange H
order of mind on his part to imagine if another jH
president were to take his place there surely H
would be a war. There has been no danger of H
war with any European state since tho war began. H
There is liable to be danger when the war H
ceases. H
Imagine Russia and Japan in close alliance, H
and determined to partition China between them H
even as they have already absorbed Manchuria H
and Mongolia; there really would be danger. H
Imagine western Europe and Great Britain in H
close alliance, drawn together through fear of the H
designs of Russia and Japan, and then imagine H
their reaching the conclusion that they want lands' H
in South America and money from the United H
States on account of what is due their citizens H
in Mexico, which, while they were involved in H
war, tho United States permitted to carry on a H
war of loot and murder, year after year, what H
might not happen? Then imagine the position wo H
would be in with Mr. Wilson president! H
But the above are only possible dangers. Thero H
is another far more obvious. With the tariff anni- H
hilated and factories closed and no merchant H
marine to handle our ocean commerce,- what is H
to happen when, the war closed, tho hordes of H
Europe begin to pour in and to enter into direct jH
competition with American union labor? H
Has Mr. Wilson ever thought of that? If he M
ever has he has never given any sign of it, or H
what ho would do were that situation to material- H
ize, though that it is coming is far more probable H
than any foreign war. jH
What -A Real Merchant Marine Means H
WHEN the late Senator Frye of Maine was a II
youth he, for two years, made his home on II
tho sea, visiting in that time all tho important II
ports of tho world. M
Years ago he introduced into tho senate a bill M
for providing the country with a merchant ma- H
rine commensurate with the importance of our
ocean commerce and our place among tho world's
nations. .
He made a . oech urging the importance of 'tl
the measure, explaining that a nation's merchant M
ships were not mere carriers of passengers and
freight, but tho couriers that carried tho thoughts 1
that regulated tho relations between governments 1
and kept peoples of different nations in .touch 1
with each other. H
Ho outlined what might bo accomplished by H
closer trade relations between our country and 1
those of South America. With tho certainty that H
our ships would visit tho ports there at certain, . H
