A GOOD BUSINESS MAN
keeps i& -touch with the labor
movement because labor
AFFECTS HIS PROFITS.
Vol. 23, No. 60.
s'**
Estelle Smith, oroseeution witness
testified.
After the jury rendered its verdict,
McNutt stated that he had learned
that Miss Estelle Smith's father was
serving a two-year sentence in Fol
som prison for forgery. He further
stated that Assistant District Attor
ney James F. Brennan, who was in
charge of the so-called bomb cases
and ^Police Lieutenant Duncan Mathe
son were trying to get Miss Smith's
jf ^i^ther paroled. Matheson was in
charge of the police "dynamite
squad." McNutt stated that these
two facts alone, plus the girl's testi­
mony for the district attorney's of
lice, formed good grounds for an ap­
peal.
BILLINGS, VICTIM OF OPEN
SHOP FIGHT, IS CONVICTED
(Special to The labor World— by Mail.)
SAN FBANCISCO, SEPT. 23.—"Warren K. Billings, indirect vic­
tim of |he San Francisco Chamber of Commerce fight for open shop
conditions here, has been desclared guilty of dynamiting the prepar­
edness parade on July 22. The jury recommended life imprisonment.
Billings, ivlio was seated at the lawyer's table in the court room,
received the verdict in silence. He turned deathly pale and lowered
his eyes. Maxwell McNutt, his attorney, filed notice of an appeal,
charging that the jury was "fixed" and that suspicion had been
cast on the motives of the prosecution's main witness, Miss Estelle
Smith.
The jury had been out four hours. Two hours had been spent
at lunch in "Bergez-Frank's Poodle Dog Restaurant," in Bush street,
a place employing non-union labor, the owners contributing regularly
to the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce fund for the open shop
fight.
Newspaper men and those who'
ha.d followed the trial closely ex­
pected an acquittal. According to the
evidence submitted by McNutt, Bil­
lings was 10 blocks away from the
scene of- the explosion when it oc
ciifred-And had-not been on the roof
Of. T21 Market'Wrete at all, as Miss
Thomas J. Moonev, alleged ring­
leader of the arrested persons, will
come, to trial on Oct. 14.
MINE WORKERS DO NOT
CARE FOR PATERNALISM
LOUISVILLE, Col.. Oct. 5.—John
D.
Rockefeller's paternalistic plan of
abating industrial strife has evi­
dently failed, according to the ac­
tivities of the United Ldine Workers
here. The unions, through organ­
izers, have posted bills all over Col­
orado, calling mass meetings of the
workers.
The organization movement start­
ed in the southern fields and is now
sweeping northward, according to
Martin 0/ Black, one of the organ­
izers. He says that the new move­
ment is^ not a forced one and is a
spontaneous outburst of workers who
want ifreedom and not Rockefeller's
paternalism.
5000 METAL WORKERS
STRIKE IN NEW YORK
NE1V YORK,
Oct.
shorter'
s.
F.
,8-
During the course of the trial, it
developed that Billings had not even
been near 721 Market street, as a
traffic policeman testified. The de­
fense proved that a false identifica­
tion had been made of Killings by
the policeman and produced the man
Who had spoken to the officer in front
of the place mentioned md whom
he mistook for Billin s. This man
was named Dodse and worked as nn
engraver on the San Fsancisco Call
Post.
5.—A strike of
metal workers involving 5,000 men
wajS declared here at a meeting of
the
ICbandelier Makers and Brass
Workers'
union. Increased wages,
hours and a union shop are
djgmajided.
THAT MAY BE
Grasshopper sandwiches will
aoqii
be considered a delicacy,
declared Professor Chester Bliss
of this Ohio State Normal school
today. The popularity of the
grasshopper as a staple diet
wpUld be asauredJf somo proml*
neat' soeicty woman wonld start
the /flid, ho- said*
MA
mm
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 5.—Trade
unions are contemplating the estab
lihsment of a trade union bank here.
The open shop fight being waged
by the San Francisco Chamber of
Commerce has brought the need of
a bank home to labor council offi­
cials, according to Andrew J. Gal­
lagher, union labor supervisor.
"For some time past," said Galla­
gher, who originated the idea, "I have
given serious thought to the subject
of a trade union bank, especially
since one of the banks in which labor
money was deposited, refused the
union a loan. The next day it made
a large loan to the Chamber of Com­
merce.
"I have talked the matter over
with a number of labor men, state
and city officials, and a prominent
banker. They are all of the opinion
that such a step, ^.besides being feas­
ible, will be necessary for the pro­
tection of the labor movement, par­
ticularly in times of industrial strife
as at present."
A number of labor men hold office
in San Francisco. The majority of
the board of supervisors are labor
men, elected on the labor ticket.
One half of the employes in the
Division of Public "Works, will be laid
off on Oct. 15, announced Commis­
sioner Bert Farrel today.
All engineer's helpers will go, the
entire maintenance department and
all of the sower maintenance depart­
ment employes. The saving in the
engineer's department alone will
amount to $1400, said the Commis­
sioner.
The necessity of economy in the
city administration, he caid, was the
cause of the move. A few employes
only, will be retained.and in the win­
ter, if occasion arises, a few more
will be employed. Commissioner
Farrell sai 1 that he is soing to ask
the civil service .commission to keep
the men thus let qut, on the eligible
list.
All public work, Including the ^irork
of demolishing the Point of Rocks,
will stop immediately and in the of­
fice, orx'i permit clerk and one steno­
grapher will go. The installation of
new sewers, for which the property
owner pays, will proceed faster than
before, stated the commissioner.
LOCAL TYPOS ASK RAISE
Duluth local No. 136, Typographical
union, has officially asked employers
for a raise in pay. Because of the
pendins negotiations, the scale asked
for was not disclosed. The* employ­
ers have ::o days-in -whl*Jh to answer
the demands.
FOR SOCIAL JXJSTICdG/ EGQlfOMIG
DULTJTH AND SUPERIOR, OCTOBER 7,1916.
By M. C. HOLLAND.
A new Mexico is being born.
And
out of the years of oppression, revo­
lution and bloodshed the Mexican
woman is taking no sma.ll haud in.
the making.
-.For centuries woman has
more or less in the light of a
of burden and especially so in Mex­
ico where the oriental nature of the
Aztecs forced the women to keep to
their homes. After the Spaniards
had conquered the country, woman
was regarded as the spoils of vic­
tory. Hernando Cortez and his army
of adventurers divided the women
among themselves and established in
COMMISSIONER FARRELL
By WILLIAM E. McEWEN.
Probably no department of the city government will
suffer so much from the loss of revenue derived from
saloon licenses as the Division of Public Works, and no
city official seems as much alive to the situation as is
J. A. Farrell, our very energetic and efficient Public
Works Commissioner.
In the last number of The Labor World attention was
called to many incidents of administrative waste at the
city hall, the duplication of work and an unnecessary num­
ber of employes and workshops. It was pointed out that
by a proper and up-to-date scheme of re-organization
much public money, now needlessly expended, could'be
saved to the people, and could be used for making public
improvements.
Commissioner Farrell was not slow to see the point,
and he lost no time in getting busy. At the first meeting
of the council following the publication of the article
above referred to in The Labor World, Mr. Farrell pre­
sented a resolution providing for the consolidation of all
city workshops and the centralizing of bookkeeping, au­
diting and financial accounting of all the city divisions.
The resolution is now being considered by the other
commissioners, and from daily press reports we gather
the information that the other commissioners, headed by
our banker mayor, Mr. Prince, pronounce the suggestion
as "impracticable." Th$y are attempting to take refuge
behind the claim that the system now in vogue has been
approved by the state public examining department which
is as obsolete and back-numbered in its ideas of modern
account keeping as most of the other.'departments in our
state government.
There is no question about the correctness of Copi
missioner Farrell's position. He has a vision. He is
under pledge to the people, as are his fellow commission­
ers, to reduce the cost of operating the city government
to a minimum, commensurate of course with good busi­
ness principles and the promotion 'of efficiency. Mr.
Farrell is forward looking. His colleagues have their
eyes set on a wasteful past. They can't get out of the
rut. They are afraid of innovations forfeartheywijl
be classed with the visionaries. And yet suecetiSftkl
business men never turn a deaf ear to any plan that will
reduce their overhead. As we understand it, Commls
sionr Farrell has in mind the reduction of the city's op­
erating expenses. It may be that he has not.lbeebme
specific enough in his resolution butit4s a start in Jfie
right direction. rl
Women's Congress in Yucatan which dealt with Suffrage.
mm*
the new country the ifethods of the
old country. This vilw of women
the Spaniards inherlty frotft the
Hpors where! the1 witting wis the
slav& of themaster of the house.
Up until the present, this state of
affair*
ZC
S
4
hasebntitmed and' until aaf late
been to leave .tlieir nomwnto" become edu
beast cu ted or receive instruction of any
kind. Of course tire homes of the
woalthy were an exception In IMG,
Dona Josefa Ortiz do Dominguez,
wife of the commander of the City
of Queretaro, took a leading part
in the conspiracy to liberate her
country. Her name, her exploits, are
carved in the heart of every Mexi­
can woman and a beautiful statue to
4/HV-Wt
Ap^PeEHacag. PROGRESS. I
her memory adorns the principal
square ii Mexico City.
Todayiwomenar^taking an active
part ^interest in the
affairs Vf the country and some even
occupy public positions _f
a
In a few months there will be a city election. Three
commissioners, including the mayor, must go to the peo­
ple in April next. If any of the present commissioners,
are candidates to succeed themselves they will be re­
quired to render to the people accounts of their steward­
ship. The voters will want to know why it costs so much
more to do business under the present commission form
of government than it did under the old form." They will
want to know about the new offices that have been
created, and why the commissioners did not wipe out en­
tirely the antiquate business methods which obtained
in the old days. There will, be some pretty hard nuts to
crack, and it will be necessary to do a lot of explaining.
Now as to Commissioner Farrell's proposition for one
city workshop. Does Mayor Prince meet the situation
in the right spirit tghen he says as he is quoted in one
of the daily pagers:
"The plan of establishing a central blacksmith and
repair shop is impractical The. shop established by-the
,fire department is used by the water and light, apd police
departments, so that the works division can send its work
there just as well."'
'. Here is a difference .of opinion, Mrl Farrell says
there is much unneceraary-waste jistder- the .present sys­
tem. Mayor: Prince declares- everythingJs. all right, and
advises Commissioner Farrell to turn fais work over to
the fl.re department for repairs. Any other plan, accord­
ing to the .Mayor, is ^impractical.". Mr. Farrell is a
practical man. He is aa. organizer. The mayor, typical
of his banker well
enough aldne." Biit if^tft^ are not
satisfied. They want results, and they are not getting
them, At Jea«t they do not b^ieye they 'are getting tl^em.
It will:' take: mo^t than on opinion from our versatile
mayor to" convineei the people they are wrong.
.The fate of the other, com^iiisioitieni as such will de­
pend upontheir treatment of Commissioner Farrell's
rotation. .vAt least'tha wirit. of the. resolution must be.
c%rxi^t out-or there willjjeisereral' new faces at the city
-^f^Xfollowing the Aprit eJectHm»- It is^p to them
number
of' them %av« eptei^/ ilu^esii.
In "the stateofYucfctan, afemintst
cong^n W5«'l^c#htl3r held. Educa­
tion, religion, economics, physiology
and philosophy were discussed. The
delegates showed in a remarkable
manner. what .women can do If given
the opporturlty, and to listen, to the
speeches made and some of the
thoughts and ideas expressed, no one
could have suspec'tcd that a short
time ago Mexico's women were in the
most deplorable state of ignorance.
And the people are behind Commissioner Farrell.
They know he has made, good that he is an earnest,
zealous and hardworking official, and any recommenda­
tion he may make for promoting efficiency or effecting
economy.in the management of the city's affairs meets
with popular favor on the very face of it. We may dif­
fer with him as to detail, but his purpose is absolutely
right.
WlLrtrffr
WASHINGTON, Oct. B.—Govern­
ment experts see no just reason for
the present advance In prices of hard
or soft coal.
They believe, coal barons are in­
cited to advance prices in a spirit of
reprisal because of federal prosecu­
tions of the anthracite coal-owning
railroads to force separation of car­
riers and mining business, and feder­
al inquiry into the soft coat situation.
"Suits are pending by the federal
government for^the separation of the
Reading, the Erie, the Lehigh and
other anthracite railroad coal car­
riers from the coal properties," said
Van H. Manning, director of the bu­
reau of mines.
"I do not say that the government
suit is the reason for the advance in
prices of hard ccal, but the interested
roads are fighting the government
energetically,"and this costs money.
"The soft coal system is different.
The Illinois soft coal mines are sub­
jected to fierce competition from the
Pittsburgh field. The soft coal oper­
ators there have been petitioning for
a freight rate adjustment to permit
them to meet this competition, and
the matter is before the federal trade
commission and the interstate com­
merce commission.'
"This competition should bring
down the price of .soft coal in the
middle west, even if the federal trade
commission should permit the com­
bination, of selling agencies of the
operators in the Illinois .field.**
Duluth coal merchants recently
raised the prices on domestic coal ten
cents a ton. Almost all coal used
here comes from the Pittsburgh dis­
trict where labor troubles are now
brewing.
(Special to The Labor World.)
NEW YORK, Oct 6.—Despite the
reports, carried all .ove? the United
States by the doddering Associated
Press, the street railway strike here
has not failed. It is trite that a few
cars in New York are-running but
they are not carrying passengers and
all windows are screened for protec­
tion. The strike breaking motormen
and conductors are sereened and po­
lice ride with them- *or protaction
Serious rioting occurs at different
times during the almost svsry day.
Concentrated action for .a sympa­
thetic strike'was not taken by the
central labor bodies '.but individual
unions are striking one by one. Six
thousand brewery workers^ and all
machinists are but on a strike and the
printers are. expe^ted. to.
strike at any
time. In Yonkers, nOt a itr&ftt car is
running. Trouble fs expected from lo
cpmotive engineers the. fuj^way
A GOOD TRADE UNIONIST
must always be intelligently in­
formed of the movements of his
own kind.
TWO CElNTS.
BREWING AMONG
OVER FALL WAGE
Trouble! between the Lake Seamen's Union and the Lake Car*
riev's Associatipji over the fall raise in wages, is expected, according
to Charles' Bradhering, secretary Of the union in the Milwaukee port.
Instead of the usual $15 raise in wages at this time of the year, the
Lake Carriers Association announced that the raise this year'would
only be $5. The annual raise acts as an inducement for, sailors and
others to ship at this time of the year when the fall gales are very
dangerous.
According to Bardhering^the small raise is causing dissatisfac­
tion everywhere and he intends to take the matter up with the
union.
The men are naturally expecting more,'' said Bradhering,'' and
many may stay off the vessels considering that th^amount of the in­
crease is not enough-to induce them to sail. The union may take
action."
Bradhering laughed at the claim
of W. P. O'Connor, of the Goodrich
line, that the La Follette law ha^d
injured lake shipping last season. Ha
said that was "bunk."
"The vessels," said Bradhering
have *11 been busy and getting muclK
Higher rates than they ever got be*
fore. Of course the cost ol laboriiaa
gone up, but so it has in every trader'
The cost of labor can not be attribf
uted to tne La Follette law, but td
the general upward trend of the cost
of labor.
"Last year," he continued, "grain
carrying charges were of a cent
to 1 cent per bushel and this year the
big grain boats have been getting as
high as 5 and 5% cents. Just look
at the difference."
UNIONIST INVENTS A
DIVER SAFETY DEVICE
WORCESTER, Mass., Oct. 5.—
John P. Ryan, member of the Bar­
tenders* union, Brewery Workers un­
ion, and vice president of the Central
Labor union, announced today that
he has invented a device which ren­
ders submarine'nets abortive. A pat*
ent has been applied for and the in­
ventor, armed'with letters of approval
from various engineers, wilt submit
his inventiont'o the United States
government.
The "devil fish nets," as they are
called, have been the means of the
death of countless undersea sailors
when the submarines were, caught.
Ryan's device can be carried by any
undersea craft without trouble,, he
says, and will make the capture of a
submarine impossible.
CANAL ZONE'TRAINMEN
GET EIGHT-HOUR DAY
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6.—An, eight
hour day for train crews and switch
engine crews in the Panama canal
zone has been established by Gov.
Goethals by ^xectitive order. Excep­
tion is made in cases of emergency,
when permission for overtime must ha
obtained from zone authorities.
NO COMPROMISE SAY
RAILROAD WORKERS
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Oct. 5.—
Eighty-five per cent of the 40,000
members of six railway shopmen'*
unions, employed on 20 western rail­
ways, voted in favor of refusing com­
promise proposals of the railroads to
demands for an eight-hour day and
wage increase of 5 cents an hour.
ISNT ALL HULA HULA
HONOLULU, T. H.f Oct 5.—Labor
unrest penetrated Honolulu today
when 300 stevedores went or* strike
for an increase in wages and better
working conditions. There has beea^ifh
no disorder.
LET'S'BE MASOftS
Bricklayers And auti! cmtrfer.
are the last persons in Ohio to
go crazy, according to the Report
of the insane hospitals
by
the
Ohio State Board of Admtnis- it'
tnu^n. Daring the last year,
says the report, S,000^ peqons
.^
w«re received by the state insti
tutkms and adjudged inaonpe.
Among them was anly one brksh
layer and one. mafl carrier.
