VOL LVIII. NO. 242
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1916
16 PAGES 128 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
RUMANIANS DRIVEN
FROM TRANSYLVANIA
Decisively Defeated by Austro-Hungarian and German
Troops Along a Fifty Mile Front
DROVE THEM BACK TO
The Rumanians Are in Retreat, Pursued by the Teutonic
Troops In Dobrudja Along the Line South of the Con-stanza-Bucharest
Railway the Russians and Rumanians
Have Made Progress in the Center and on Their Left
Wing The Russians Have Ceased Their Attacks Against
the Austro-German Lines in Volhynia, West of Lutsk
In Macedonia the Armies of the Entente Allies Have
Crossed the Struma, Northeast of Saloniki and Have
Captured the Town of Nevolyen.
Turning r.gain, the Rumanians, -who
had been advancing steadily in eastern
Transylvania, Austro-Hungarian and
German troops have defeated the in
vaders decisively along a 50-mile front.
North of Fogaras at the junction of
the Homorod and Alt rivers, near Reps,
the Rumanians are in retreat, pursued
by the Teutonic troops.
The successful repulse of the invad
ers on the southern end of the line was
in the hands of General Von Falken
hayn, former chief of the German gen
eral staff, and who only last week
routed . the Rumanians around Ilor
mannstadt and drove them back to
their own frontier. North of Reps the
Austro-Hunganans recaptured posi
tions and took more than 200 prisoners.
Bucharest admits the Rumanian troops
in eastern Transylvania have been
withdrawn before attacks -by superior
forces.
In Dobrudja heavy fighting continues
along the line south of the Constanza
Bucharest railway, with Bucharest re
cording progress for the Russians and
Rumanians in the center and on their
left wing.
While General Brussiloff apparently
ha.s ceased, at least for the moment,
his attacks against the, Austro-German
lines in Volhynia, west of"nutsk, he
continues southward his assaults with
great intensity against the positions of
TO GET FUNDS FROM
FEDERAL OFFICEHOLDERS
Alleged Plans of the National Demo
cratic Executive Committee
New York, Oct. 6. Carefully pre
pared plans of the National Democratic
executive committee to extort a cam
paign fund of several millions from
federal offlcerholders in violation of
the spirit of the criminal code and of
the civil service act were disclosed at
Republican National headquarters to
day. The plans purposed the raising
of this ie fund for the re-election
of President Wilson.
The framers of the plan are per
fectly aware of the fact that they are
skating on very thin ice and have
striven to direct the procedure of their
subordinates so as to enable them to
effect a substantial violation of the law
without being caught. The men who
are endeavoring to put the plans in
operation holdly confess to the subord
inates upon whom they rely for the
actual strong arm work. That they
are deliberately seeking to evade the
statutory provisions to which, in pub
lic and for the purposes of campaing
argument only, they make such pro
fuse profession of devotion.
The first drive of the cash collect
ors for the Democratic committee is
aimed at postmasters, but it is specif
ically set for that all other federal ap
pointees as well are expected to con
tribute to the Wilson campaign fund.
The amount of the levy upon them is
ten per cent, of one year's salary.
GREAT BRITAIN EXTENDS
EMBARGO ON IMPORTATIONS
Cotton Knit Goods in Latest List of
Goods Barred.
Washington, Oct. 5. Consul-General
Skinner, at London, today notified the
department of commerce that Great
Britain has. extended her embargo
against Importations into the' United
Kingdom to include cotton knit goods.
Mr. Skinner's cablegram said in
part:
"Proclamation of October 3 provides
that from and after that date the im
portation into the United Kingdom of
the following goods is prohibited:
"Aluminum powder, birds (live, oth
er than poultry and game), bone, .horn.
Ivory and celluloid and manufacturers
of cotton hoisery."
Officials of the department said the
term cotton hosiery used in the Eng
lish sense includes not only hoisery
as known in this country, but other
knit cotton goods. Mr. Skinner said
the prohibition was ordered because of
"an active campaign of a protective
nature." He dded that the embargo
against oranges had been lifted.
MASSACHUSETTS AND RHODE
ISLAND TROOPS COMING HOME
Are to Leave Border as Soon as the
Georgia Guardsmen Arrive There,
El Paso. Texas, Oct. 6. The Fifth,
Eighth and Ninth Massachusetts In
fantry, Second Brigade headquarters,
three cavalry trotps and a signal corps
battalion will leave for home as soon
as the Georgia national guard troops
arrive here to relieve them, it was
announced today. It is expected the
First and Third battalions of Massa
chusetts artillery will leave Tuesday.
Troops A, C, and M of the First
Rhode Inland cavalry, expect to leave
for Providence, R. I, tomorrow and
battery A, of the Rhode Island Ar--pUery
will leave early next iHk.
THEIR OWN FRONTIER
the Teutonic allies guarding the ap
proaches to Lemberg, capital of Gali
cia. 'Although the Russian attacks
were held up northeast of Lemberg,
those on the southeast of the capital,
according to Petrograd, resulted in the
taking of positions south of Brzezany
and the capture of 500 prisoners. Ber
lin, however, declares that all Russian
attacks in Galieia have been repulsed
and that the Ausf ro-Germans have
taken 1,200 prisoners from the Rus
sians. In Macedonia the armies of the en
tente allies continue to advance. The
Britisli troops which crossed the
Struma northeast of Saloniki have
taken the town of Nevolyen. which ww
evacuated by its defenders. South of
Monastir, Serbia, violent fighting in
the region of the Cerna river is re
ported by Paris.
The artillery continues active on the
Sommtr front in France, according to
the reports from the war offices of all
the belligerents.
A delayed report from Constantinople
tells of the rout of Russian troops
northwest of Hamadan, Persia. Tribes
men in Ispahan, says Constantinople,
have risen in revolt and driven the
Russians from the city. Petrograd, on
the other hand, report's progress for
the Russians west and southwest of
Trebizond, in Armenia.
WILSON TO MAKE ADDRESS
AT SHADOW LAWN TODAY.
More Than 2,000 Independents Are Ex
pected to Attend the Meeting.
Crestline, O., Oct. C (On Board Pres
ident Wilson's Special). President
Wilson plans to make the second
strictly political speech of his campaign
at Shadow Lawn tomorrow afternoon
before members of the Woodrow WH
son Independent league. Returning
from Omaha. Neb., he will arrive at
Long Branch at 10 o'clock tomorrow
morning and at once begin preparations
for receiving the more than 2,000 inde
pendents expected to attend the meet
ing. The president intends continuing
the political argument begun at Shaw
ow Lawn last Saturday before the
young democratic voters. He is known
to believe that the coming election will
be decided by independents, and there
fore tomorrow he will moke an especial
appeal to them.' In addition to the
independents, 'he meeting tomorrow
will be attended by a group of pro
gressives led by Hugh Gordon Miller of
New York. The president will seek
to show that because of its legislative
achievements of the last three years
the democratic party more than the
republican party deserves the support
of progressive and independent voters.
The president is returning to Shadow
Lawn convinced that he has a good
chince of carrying several middle
western states hitherto thought cer
tainly republican.
COL. ROOSEVELT TERMED A
PESTILENTIAL SCOLD
By Ira Landrith, the Prohibition Vice
Presidential Candidate.-
Des Moines, Iowa. Oct.. Oct. 6. Nec
essity of dry law enforcement was
urged upon Iowans today by Ira Land
rith, the prohibition vice presidential
candidate, as tne special dry train
moved eastward through the state.
"Long, long ago," Landrith said here,
"when Theodore Roosevelt was yet in
office and had not become a noisome,
pestilential party scout, tie uttered the
immortal truth 'the worst evil in any
community" is unenforced laws.' Law
enforcement is not a- political issue.
He who opposes the enforcement of
law Is not a politician he is an an
archist."
J. F. Hanly, the presidential candi
date, confined himself to discussing
the national issue.
Movements of Steamships.
Oran, Oct. A. Arrived: Steamer Pa
tria, New York.
Falmouth, Oct 5. Arrived: Steamer
Azcania, Montreal.
Liverpool, Oct. 6. Arrived: Steamer
Lapland, New York.
Glasgow, Oct. 4. Sailed: Steamer
Pretorian, Montreal.
New York, Oct. 6. Arrived, steamer
Re d'ltalia, Naples. Sailed, steamer
jNieuw Amsterdam, Rotterdam.
Siasconeet, Mass., Oct. 6. Signalled.
steamer St. Louis, Liverpool for New
York, 557 miles east of Sandy Hook
at b.ut) p. m. dock S a. m. Sunday.
Bordeaux, Oct. 1. Arrived, steamer
nicago, iew orK.
Barn Burned In Lltohfleld.
Litchfield, Conn., Oct. 6, Fira of
unknown determined origin tonignt
destroyed the large barn owned by S",
U. Newcomb entailing a loss estimat
ed at $3,600. The horsas, three auto
mobiles and a number 6( wagons
were saved. Two years ago thin month,
a barn on the present site was burned
under glmil circmnatMOjyi, "
Cabled PaOhs
vie .w
pressed.
Berlin. Of V
p. m., via Lon-
don, Oc ,al m. Die, Zukunft
of wh' vr';,. .Jan Harden is the ed
itor, h 4 'been suppressed, appar
ently b- .se of an anti-militarist ar
ticle, thfc contributor of which pictured
the horrible side of the. war.
TO MEET DEMANDS
OF DAIRYMEN'S LEAGUE
Representatives of Distributing Com
panies to Pay Increased Price.
New York, Oct. 6. Representatives
of milk distributing companies hand
ling virtually the entire supply of the
city except that dispensed by the Bor
den, Sheffield Farms and Mutual-Mc-Dermott
companies, agreed at a con
ference late tonight to meet the de
mands of the dairymen's league for an
increased price and six months" con
tracts, under certain conditions.
The proposed agreement would be
predicated on the stipulation that the
price be paid without question for the
months of October, November and De
cember, but that for January. Feb
ruary and March the surplus milk they
must take from the farmers be paid
for on the basis of cheese and butter
prices or as much as they can get for
it after turning it into butter and
cheese. It was explained that the deal
ers In making contracts with farmers
agreed to take all the milk produced
and fellt the producers should share
their loss on the part that could not
be sold.
To adjust future relations between
the dealers and the distributors, the
conference submitted to the league a
proposition providing for a committee
of eleven to be appointed as follows:
One each by the governor, the may
or, the commissioner of agriculture,
the wholesale dealers, the retail deal
ers, the state grange, the New York
milk committee, the Wicks investigat
ing committee, the health commission
er of New York city and two by the
dairymen's league. The dealers stated
that they desired the appointments
made in this matter so that they can
decide from a scientific as well as a
business standpoint the proper price to
pay for milk. The findings of the com
mittee would be final.
CHRISTIAN SCIENTISTS TO
BUILD A SANATORIUM
Have Accepted Gift of Twenty Acres
of Land in Brookline, Mass.
Boston, Oct. 6. The acceptance of
a gift of twenty acres of land in
Brookline on which it is proposed to j
build a sanatorium to be conducted
by the Mother Church was announced '
by the Christian Science Boai'd of di- I
rectors tonight. The step was taken
in accordance with the wishes of the
founder of the church, Mrs. Mary
Baker G. Eddy, who proposed to the
directors in 1909 that the Mother
Church should "establish and main
tain a Christian Science resort for the
so-called sick"
The subject was first broached, ac
coi'ding to a statement by the direct
ors, in correspondence with --Mrs.-May
Beecher Longyear, of Brookline, "in
regard to the founding by Mrs. Long
year of an institution which Mrs. Ed
dy proposed should be called a sana
torium and which should include pro
visions for such instructions in prac
tical methods of caring for those under
treatment as is consistent with the
teachings of Christian Science."
A short time ago, the directors an
nounced tonight, Mrs. Longyear offer
ed the tract of land in Brookline and
was notified that the gift would be
accepted.
TAGORE, THE HINDU POET
FLED TO SANTA BARBARA
Hindu Revolutionists Were Plotting to
Assassinate Him.
San Francisco, Oct. 6. Sir Rabin
dranath, Hindu poet and Nobel prize
winner, is safe in Santa Barbara today
after fleeing from this city before a re
ported plot to assassinate him. He
left behind him here two fellow coun
trymen in jail and a cancelled lec
ture engagement.
The head of a private detective
agency said today that there was a
well founded plot on the part of Hin
du revolutionists to destroy Tagore.
The men in jail, charged with battery
and assault, are H. Singh Hateshi and
Jewan Singh, members of the radical
Hindu or Gadar party. In front of the
hotel where Sir Rabindranath was
staying yesterday they attacked Pro
fessor Singh Mattu, who came from
Stockton to invite Tagore to lecture
and tore hi swhite turban from his
head. Detectives believe their real ob
ject was to reach Tagore.
A bodyguard of private and city de
tectives escorted the Hindu poet to a
night train and several detectives ac
companied him to Santa Barbara.
LAVA IS FLOWING
FROM MOUNT LRASON
Mass Moving With Clouds of Steam
Moving From It.
Redding, Calif., Oct. 6. A great,
black streak, believed to be lava, belch
ed out by Lassen Peak, was visible
today stretching down the western
slope of the mountain far below the
timber line. Observers reaching here
said the mass was seen yesterday with
clouds of steam rising from it. The
sun sinking behind the mountain il
luminated the volcano, revealing the
flow of mud or lava in bold relief.
WORKING FOR IMPROVED
CONDITIONS AT WETHERSF1ELD
Warden to Ask Appropriation of $35,
000 for a Recreation Field for Pris
oners. "Wethersfleld, Conn., Oct. 6. Inmates
of the state prison here will be allow
ed to subscribe for daily newspapers, a
privilege hitherto denied, It was an
nounced tonight by Warden Garner.
The warden also announced that he In.
tends to ask the incoming general as
sembly to appropriate $35,000 to be
used for the purchase of a recreation
field.
ALLEGED COMBINATION
OF MASTER BAKERS
Said to Have Threatened Violence
Against Independent Bakers,
New York, Oet, 6,Oewplaints, that
master bakers in eembinatien have in-
eroaaed the price of bread ORe cent a,
loaf and, have threatened to. use Vio
lence against independent bakers who
refuse to join them will be investi
gated ny District Attorney Swann, he
announced today. Mere than 188 sub
peenas were served on bakers palling
roe tnear anaeafaacs oetora mr t
Is Gerard on a
Mission of Peace?
NEW YORK EVENING POST SO
ANNOUNCES
WILSON AS MEDIATOR
Says That the Ambassador Will Lay
the Kaiser's Request Before Presi
dent Wilson Within a . Week State
Department Not Informed.
New York, Oct. 6. The New York
Evening Post today publishes a story
saying that it has been learned from
a trustworthy source that Ambassador
James W. Gerard, now in his way back
from Grmany, will lay before Presi
dent Wilson a request that the presi-
Further Proof of What
Once again State Treasurer Chamberlain has had occasion to test
the value of newspaper advertising and as on his previous trial his
verdict is the same.
He says the treasury department returns sincere thanks to the
various newspapers in the state that have published the advertise
ment for investment taxes. The advertising has been an immense
success, and the lists now on file at the close of business on the 30th
of September, which is the last day for the list to be filed, far ex
ceed in number an i amount tiioje accepted in previous years.
"The force employed by the treasury department in writing re
ceipts and recording them is much larger than in any previous year,
but owing to the exceedingly great number of lists filed, it will take
several weeks to mail receipts to all. Again tendering the thanks of
this department to the press of the state, I wish to say, 'It pays to'
advertise.' "
Newspaper publicity doesn't discriminate, it treats all alike and
what it has done for the state treasury department it will do for all
advertisers. .Use The Bulletin and get your message to the reading
public of Eastern Connecticut.
The following is the summary of the matter which appeared in
The Bulletin during the past week:
Bulletin Telegraph Local General Total
Saturday, Sept.' 30.. 134 182 1193 1514
Monday, Oct. 2.. 140 181 293 614
Tuesday, Oct. 5.. 123 .168 201 492
Wednesday, Oct. 4.. 118 203 212 533
Thursday, Oct. 5.. 137 I82.,j2.9p 6o9"
.Friday Oct. 6. . 112 185 . .. 205 502
Totals.,..., 764 1101 2399 4264
dent use his good services in suing for
peace with the allies.
"Germany has definitely decided to
apply to President Wilson," the arti
cle reads, "to use his good offices in
suing for peace with the allies. This
was learned today from sources in a
position to have absolutely trustwor
thy information on these mateers.
"It is understood that Ambassador
James W. Gerard, who is on his way
over here will lay the kaises's request
before President Wilson within a week.
It is a. fact, however posi
tively it may have been denied official
ly, that the possibility of President
Wilson acting as mediator has been
discussed by German officials with
Ambassador Gerard. It is therefore
by no means surprising that the re
ports now take definite shape in con
nection with Mr. Gerard's trip to this
country."
Ambassador Gerard is on board the
steamship Frederlk VIH, due in New
York about Tuesday next.
KNOWLEDGE DISCLAIMED
BY STATE DEPARTMENT
No Preparations for the Discussion of
Peace Have Been Made.
Washington, Oct. G. If Ambassador
Gerard is returning to the United
States on any mission other than to
spend a belated vacation, officials of
the state department disclaim any
knowledge of it The statement has
been authorized that no preparations
for. the discussion of peace through
diplomatic channels have been made
and that all information gathered here
sieems to indicate that such a move
would be inadvisable as well as futile.
There have been various reports of
plans of President Wilson to deal with
this matter directly instead of through
the state department.
Count "Von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, has engaged to call on
the president at Shadow Lawn next
Monday afternoon. He is exipected to
present an autograph letter from the
German emperor replying to the pres
ident's personal appeal for co-operation
of European rulers in Polish relief
work. It is not known whether the
ambassador will discuss any other sub
ject. Officials of the German embassy re
ceived the story with the emphatic
statement that they knew beyond doubt
that it was not true
THREE ITALIAN'S ABDUCT
A WOMAN IN NEW BRITAIN,
Mrs. Annie Petrowska Fought Desper
ately Against Odds.
East Hartford, Conn., Oct, 6,-The
abduction of Mrs, Annie Petrowska of
Now Britain at the point of e. revolver
by three unknown Italians was re
ported to the leoal police tonight, The
woman, acovsmpanied by her mother
and cousin, Aduan Meska, ef llartford,
arriv-ed here en a newer boat from
Portland late this afternoon, As the
party stepped, ashore, according to
Jkfaslfa, thre ftaliasfl sprang; frejB. he
hind feuehes and seised Mm, petrow
ska. One Italian was armed, with a
pevQlver and the ptheFfl ha4 knives.
Mj?s. PetfowBka fqught (le6PrafcBly,
put was overpowered. an4 Mflsfea and
his mother wre afield to. offer, resist
ance, As conn as the trip disappeared
with the woman iSoska san for aid. A
squad ef policemen-.seajhetJse:Yi6inr
ItJft nt feund no traea oftfc wsiaaB
MBj -
Big Increase in
Our Export Trade
BALANCE IN EIGHT, MONTHS OF
$1,730,000,000 IN OUR FAVOR
BRITAIN GETS ONE-THIRD
Total Exports For Past Eight Months
Amounted to $3,435,699,212 Exports
to Germany and Austria Have Al
most Ceased.
Washington, Oct. 6. The enormous
extent of the increase in the export
trade of the United States is displayed
in statistics issued today by the de
partment of commerce. Total exports
to the various countries for the first
eight months of the calendar year
Advertising Will Do
were in many cases millions of dollars
greater than those of the entire fiscal
year of 1914 and very large increases
are shown in percentages.
Exports to Greece Increased 2,200 Per
Cent.
Kxports to Greece for the eight
months leaped 2,200 per cent, compared
to the fiscal year 1914; to Russia 900
per cent; to Norway 340 per cent.; to
France 240 per cent.; to Denmark 140
per cent.; to Italy 129 per cent.; to
the United Kingdom 103 per cent.; to
Sweden S4 per cent.; to Cuba 42 per
cent, and to Japan 25 per cent.
Total Exports $3,435,969,212.
This vast export trade shows an ap
parent trade balance for the eight
months of $1,730,000,000 in favor of the
United States and department officials
predict that-by the end of the year it
will exceed $2,500,000,000. The total
exports amounted to $3,435,969,212 an
increase of $1,205,882,010 over the
same eight months a year ago.
One-third to United Kingdom.
The largest gain was in exports to
the United Kingdom, which took near
ly one-third of all goods exported from
the United States in that period. They
amounted to $1,207,751,93'9, showing an
increase of $554,000,000, over tne fame
eight months last year, and $713,000,
000 more than the entire fiscal year of
1914.
Little Trade With Germany.
Exports to Germany and Australia
have almost ceased. Decreases for the
eight months when compared with the
same period last year were shown in
exports to Denmark, the Netherlands
and Sweden, but the totals, excapt for
The Netherlands, exceed those of the
fiscal year 1914.
DISCHARGE OF RECEIVER
OF I. M. MARINE CO.
Philip A. S. Franklin Received $163,500
For His Services.
New Tork, Oct. 6. With the dis
charge here today by the federal dis
trict court of Philip A. S. Franklin as
receiver of the International Mercan
tile Marine Company, it was said that
the way is now clear for a reorgani
zation of the corporation. The refit
ting of new steamers and the pur
chase of portion of the fleet of the Pa
cific Mail Steamship company, -which
enabled the company to participate
largely In the increased commerce due
to the war, were said by the court to
have "resulted in profits hitherto un
known with receivership proceedings."
Mr. Franklin, who was appointed re
ceiver in April, 1915, when, according
to the court, ''the task was a thank
less and unpromising one," will re
ceive 163',50O for his services.
Heavy Toll of Neutral Shipping.
London, Oet, 6 Further evidence of
the heavy toll neutral shipping is pay
ing in the world war is contained in a
ptatemenit ffliven leut ltotiay by the
J3ritish government showing that nine,
teen such vessels have ben sunk "by
enemy mines" between June 1 and
Sept, 84. During the same period, says
the statement, sixteen entente allied
vessels also were sunfc
Fleet Tender Dixie Floated.
Newport Newe, Va,, Oet- 8, The fleet
tender Dixie, which went aground near
f himble Shqais light, Chesapeake bay,
uring the heavy fog ef last night,
was" floated af Align tide today. - Two
navy tugs pulled the tender off the bar
and towed, her into Hampton Beads.
preliminary examination, snewejx ne
aaasBv -
Condensed Telegrams
Mayor Mitchel left for the Adiron-
dacks.
Two thousand hod carriers of Brook
lyn went on strike.
Subscriptions were opened to
second French war loan.
the
The Atlantic Coast Line Railroad is
facing serious shortage .of freight
cars.
The Greek government has suspend
ed payments because of a shortage of
money.
Frederick Davidson, of Pittsburgh,
W&.S drowned while bathing at Atlan
tic City.
Nicolas Matienzo will be Foreign
minister in the cabinet of President
elect Irigoyen.
A proclamation designating October
9 as Fire Prevention day, was issued
by Governor Whitman.
The strike of longshoremen on Puget
Sound, which had been in effect since
last June, has been settled.
Flavelles Limited, one of the largest
produce and cold storage plants in
Canada, was destroyed by fire.
Charles E. Hughes will commence
his third western tour next Monday
with a noonday meeting at Newark,
N. J.
Julius Baxt, of New York, died in
Mount Sinai hospital of injuries re
ceived when he was struck by an au
tomobile. A charter has been filed at Dover,
Del., for the International Steel and
Tlolling Mills, with a capital stock of
$2,500,000.
Three persons were severely cut and
bruised in the collision of two automo
biles on Freshkill Road, Green Ridge,
Staten Island.
The stockholders of the Marathon
Tire and Rubber company, have voted
to increase the capital stock from
$500,000 to $1,000,000.
Boots and shoes in Petrograd have
become so expensive that the Russian
government, has put a minimum price
of $12 on all footgear.
Reduction of transocntinental freight
rates by the Southern Pacific, Santa
Fe end Western Pacific -were announc
ed effective, November 24.
The weekly statemen of the Bank
of France shows an increase of 7,
965,000 francs in gold and a decrease
of 1,735,000 francs in silver.
Gov. Major of Missouri directed the
work of 200 prisoners from the state
penitentiary on a ten -mile stretch of
road near Jefferson City, Mo.
The Rev. David Tully. said to be the
oldest Presbyterian minister in active
service in this- country, died at his
home at Media, near Philadelphia.
A barn, garage and employe's room
ing quarters on the estate of H. S.
Shonnard of Oyster Bay, L. I., was de
stroyed by fire at a loss of $50,000.
An order was placed by the Western
Maryland Railway company with the
Pullman company for 2,000 steel hop
per cars at a cost of about $3,000,000.
The American Steel &" Wire Co.
completed a deal by which its fleet of
steel river barges were sold for $200,
000 to the Aluminum Co. of America.
The American Game Protective As
sociation decided to urge the Cham-berlain-Hayden
bill, now before con
gress, to protect big game in the west.
Homer Cummings of Stamford, dem
ocratic candidate for United States
senator, will begin next week an au
tomobile campaign tour of the state.
Thomas J. Costello of Springfield
was elected president of the New Eng
land Postmasters Association at the
annual convention in Springfield Fri
day. Sir Ernest Shackleton arrived at
Buenos Aires, from Santiago, where he
went to thank the Chilian government
for assistance in the rescue of mem
bers of his party from Elephant Isl
and Dominick Gigise, convicted of first
degree murder, in Schuylkill County,
Pa., and sentenced to be electrocuted,
has asked the board of pardons to
commute his sentence to life imprison
ment. Two men were killed, an engineer
was scalded and many passengers were
injured when the Mercantile Express
on the Pennsylvania crashed into the
rear of a stock train in Lewiston, Pa.,
yards.
Frank McDonald confessed he and
his brother wrecked a Michigan Cen
tral train at Bridgeport, Ontario, on
May 30, 1911, killing the fireman and
engineer and severely injuring several
others.
Leo Patterson, superintendent of the
Illinois Powder Co. plant, near Graf
ton, 111., and two laborers were killed
when three carloads of dynamite
standing on a spur near the plant ex
ploded. Departmental commanders were or
dered by the war department to dis
patch militia organizations still in
state mobilization camps to the bor
der as soon as they can arrange trans
portation facilities.
Professor Jesse Benedict Carter, di
rector of the American Academy in
Rome, has been appointed by Lucien
Poincare, French director of public in
struction, to deliver lectures at 12 pro
vincial universities in Franco.
Hans Edward Thompson and Fred
TTffelman were found guilty in the
United States district court of con
spiring to defraud the government out
of customs revenue on jewelry made
In Germany and smuggled in by way
of Denmark.
TWO MORE ARRESTS IN
CHICAGO BLACKMAILING
Edward Donahue and James D. Kirk-
land to Be Taken Into Custody.
Chicago, Set, 8 Arrests ef Edward
"Dec" Donohue, alleged member of the
so-called $1,660,000 blaekmajl syndi
cate, and a man known as "James D.
Kirkland" was erderec? today in con
nection with the alleged fleecing of
Massey, a real estate dealer, out of
Ije.eefl in an "electric fly screen"
tmnaaetlaa. --
BRITISH STEAMER
Steamer Hawkhead Was at Anchor in Hampton Roads
When the Grash Came
THERE WAS NO LOSS OF
Chesapeake Steamship Liner City of Norfolk, Outward Bound
From Baltimore With a Number of Passengers, Runs
British Vessel Down During a Heavy Fog Nearly 100
Passengers on the City of Norfolk Were at Dinner When
the Crash Came and There Was .Great Excitement
The Bow of the City of Norfolk Was Badly Damaged
Captain and Crew of the
Sinking Ship.
Norfolk, Va.. Oct. 6. The British
steamer Hawkhead at anchor in
Hampton Roads off Sewell's Point, was
run down and sunk about S o'clock to
night by the Chesapeake Steamship
company Bay Line steamer City of
Norfolk, bound outward from this port
for Baltimore, with a number of pas
sengers. The City of Norfolk was
badiy damaged about the bow but
there was no loss of life as far as
known. The collision occurred dur
ing a heavy fog.
Captain Hand and the crew of the
Hawkhead were taken off by boats
lowered by the City of Norfolk, the
river steamer Pocahontas and other
craft. Fifteen minutes after being
struck the British ship had settled
in thirty feet of water.
Nearly one hundred passengers on
the City of Norfolk were at dinner
when ' the crash came. There was
great excitement but the officers soon
succeeded in restoring order. The Po
cahontas came alongside the City of
Norfolk and the iassengers were
transferred to the river craft, but they
EIGHT HOUR LAW
IS ATTACKED BY TAFT
Addressed Thousands of Persons at
the Coliseum, Indianapolis.
Indianapolis, Ind., Oct. 6. The eight
hour law recently enacted by congress
was attacked by "William H. Taft to
night when he addressed thousands of
persons at the Coliseum, discussing
the development of . const ,;utional gov
ernment of the state. Mr. Taft's
speech was a part of the County Day
programme in connection with In
diana's centennial celebration and
while non-political in character, gave
him opportunity to find flaws in the
government's course of action with
out naming persons and parties speci
fically. In tracing the development from the
old Northwest Territorial days, he
showed that through constitutional
limitations placed pn the conduct of
men, society as a whole had been pro
tected against those who would seek
to turn all things to their service or
benefit. He said that these limitations
did not restrict the liberty of men,
but that they did prevent the exercise
of license as distinguished from lib
erty. Mr. Taft declared that the law for
bids the formation of combinations for
oppression. - But he said, there has
developed in this country a tendeircy
in high quarters toj, disregard consti
tutional limitations and to overlook
certain classes of acts provided a po
litical' advantage could be gained. He
regarded the eight hour law as such
and said:
"This is the most noteworthy in
stance of a group whose labor was
necessary that society may live, re
fusing to perform its function in the
social smachinery."
C. E. HUGHES VISITED
HIS BOYHOOD HOME
Second Time He Had Seen the Old
Home in 42 Years.
Montclair, N. J.. Oct. 6. Charles B.
Hughes spent an hour this afternoon
visiting his boyhood home in Newark,
N. J., "where his father was minister
of Baptist church from 1863 to 1874.
It was the second time Mr. Hughes
had seen his chWdhood home in forty
two years. He was accompanied by
Mrs. Hughes, whom he introduced to
several old-time friends.
The house in which the republican
presidential nominee lived in. his youth
is now unoccupied. Mr. Hughes ap
peared much interested, asking many
questions of the residents in the neigh
borhood who flocked to see him.
LAUNCH RAMMED BY
A FIFTEEN FOOT SWORDFISH
Big Hole Made Below the Water Line
Fish Shot and Hauled Aboard.
Galveston, Texas, Oct. 6. The Unit
ed States Engineering launch Nueces
was rammed by a fifteen foot swoard
fish yesterday while in the inter-costal
canal between Caney Creek and the
Brazos river, according to Captain
George Prendergast, commodore of the
engineers' dredging fleet, who was on
the launch when the attack occurrd.
A big hole was made in the Uueces
below the water line, but she was kept
afloat
The fish was shot and hauled aboard.
The sword measured five feet in
lenkth. Captain Prendergast said.
DECISION OF INTEREST
IN PROBATE CASE
Husbands Cannot Derive Support
From Estate of Wives Pending Set
tlement, Hartford, Conn., Oct. 8. Husbands
cannot derive support from the estates
of their deceased wives during the
settlement of thoae estates and the
probate courts have no power to make
such allowances to surviving husbands,
according to a decision handed down
in the supreme court today in the
case of Willima L. Rourke's appeal
from the probate court of the district
of New Haven.
. Thera were no-ofhCT flarrtninrn.
RUN DOWN, SUNK
LIFE AS FAR AS KNOWN
Hawkhead Were Taken Off the
remained there only a short time, be
ing put aboard a bay liner of the Bal
timore Steam Packet company, which
took most of them on to Baltimore.
About fifteen of the passengers de
cided to return to Norfolk.
Although the City of Norfolk's bow
was carried away for ten feet, tha
collision bulkheads held and she turn
ed about and steamed slowly back to
this port, being assisted by tugs.
The City of Norfolk was proceed
ing to Old Point at slow speed be
cause of the fog, but she struck tho
Hawkhead with great force, tearing a
big hole in her side near the stern.
The British ship was anchored off the
Sewell's Point pier of the "Virginia rail
road, awaiting a berth there. She
arrived Oct. 2 from Savona.
All Passengers Saved.
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 6. President
Key Compton of the Chesapeake
Steamship company said tonight that
there were between 75 and 80 passen
gers on the City of Norfolk and that
all had been saved.
SENATOR SHERMAN CHALLENGES
GOMPERS TO PUBLIC DEBATE
Challenge Urges That the Debate ba
Held in Chicago or Springfield, III.
Springfield, 111., Oct 6.' United.,
States Senator Lawrence T. Sherman
of Illinois, has been challenged to ;
meet in public debate Samuel Gomp- ;
ers, president of the American Fed-j
eration of Labor, whom Senator Sher
man recently attacked in the senate. ,
The challenge was sent to Sherman j
on behalf of the Illinois Federation of J
Labor and the Chicago Federation of j
Labor. ;
In his speech in tho senate. Senator
Sherman is quoted as saying: , .
"Gird up your loins, Mr. uompen,
and answer me as a man.",
The challenge urges the debate ba
held in Chicago or Springfield not later
than Oct, 12. .
ALLEGED MISBEHAVIOR
OF RUMANIAN TROOPS
Butchered Inhabitants and Set Build
ings on Fire in Recently Occupied
Villages.
Berlin, Oct. 4. (By wireless to Say
ville). A further report of alleged,
misbehavior on the part of Rumanian !
troops who crossed the Danube into
Bulgaria recently is contained in the
official statement given out in Eofla
yesterday. The statement says: ;
"Rumanian troops butchered, and at-
tackd the population and set buildings
on fire in the recently occupied vil
lages. These are infamous deeds for
a nation which pretends to be civil-.
ized."
The above was not contained in the
Bulgarian official statement of October
5 received by cable by way of London.
RESIGNATION OF CHINESE
MINISTER NOT ACCEPTED
President Li Yuan,-Hung Says Koo'a
- Services Are Indispensable.
Pekin, Oct. 6: President Li Yuan
Hung has cabled Dr. V. K. "Wellington
Koo, Chinese minister to the United
States, refusing to accept his reslg.-:
nation from that post, declaring in the
message that the preservation of j
friendly relaions between the United '
States and China is now of the great. '
est importance and that Dr. Koo's
services are indispensable. He la '
urged to reconsider the matter.
Pekin advices of September 28 stat- .
ed hat Dr. Koo's resignation as min
ister to the United States had been
received at the Chinese foreign office
and that it had not been accepted. Ill
health was given as the reason for the
resignation.
. i
CHARGED WITH ATTEMPTING
MURDER OF HIS STEPFATHER
Alfred J .Basso of Torrington Accused
of Putting Poison in Tea.
Torrington, Conn., Oct. ' 6. Alfred J.. I
Basso, 20 years old, was arrested to- i
night on a charge of attempting to
murder his stepfather, Philip Mele, by j
putting a powerful poison in a cup of
tea he was about to drink. According
ot the police, the youth has confessed, i
No motive for the act is known and
the police believe that he is mentally "
deranged.
When Mele sat down to a meal to
day he noticed a pungent odor in his
cup of tea and did not drink it.
Further investigation disclosed that a
large quantity of a poisonous acid had
been mixed with the beverage.
A STRIKE TIES UP
SHIPPING AT SAN JUAN
Harbor and Dock Laborers and Cart
man Demand Higher Wages.
San Juan, Porto Rico, Oct. 6. Ship
ping here is tied up by a strike of -one
thousand harbor and dock laborers,
who were joined today by the cartmen.
All demand higher wages.
Violence followed efforts to bring i
workmen heire from other places and .'
most of the Imported workers have
iolned thasrikjcxi .
