\ ft
WEATHER. if k ^ L^7 _ TW/lf "From Pre** to Home
Fair tonight and tomorrow; little JI . . J /_ ft a ^ ^ a .A, A ^ . a . a. .A. ? A A 1 liT^U ?-??????
Mmlw%d% 9wrTw\ ^SBSi (ffi! Within the Hour"
m. PT^I I wr W I I wT III I I I I ^^7^ | r | I eS^>
\ ibWl \Ks > %/UVl IX 4IAA Jm* K vVJl' [
|l ? 1 U ~ r ^ ^ -V -J r * ^ Swarm net Ctremlatlon, Momtk of September.
V. 111-^^ llUi Dally Average, 74,8301 Sunday. 84MM8.
No. 29,464. ~ WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. M ONE GENT.
? - ~ ~ ; " ~T ~ ~ -
BROOKLYN OPENS !
BASE BALL ME
SERIES AT BOSTON
Braves' Field Is Packed for
First of Games to Decide j
World Championship.
ALMOST IDEAL WEATHER j
PREVAILS FOR CONTEST
Hundreds of Fans Stand in Line All
Night for Tickets?Betting ;
Favors American Leaguers.
BRAVES' FIELD, BOSTON,'
October 7.?The Bostons, pen- ,
rant winners of the American I
League, and the National League J
champions, the Brooklyns, the j
two contestants for the premier i
honors in base ball, engaged in J
the first game of the world series i
here this afternoon before what
apparently was the largest crowd
that ever looked upon a battle
of bats for the base ball championship.
Every Seat Occupied.
Some 42,000 or more spectators filled
every seat in the expansive reaches of
the stands, and then overflowed into a
large space temporarily fenced in for
standers in deep right center field.
Speculators reaped the proverbial harvest
and then a little more on grandstand
tickets.
An Indian summer sun turned the
edge of what early threatened to be a ,
brisk, cool autumn day, and noon found j
it warm and comfortable. The players I
In practice warmed into condition [
quickly, and the fielding workouts j
were snappy and fast.
The inner and outer playing fields were !
rolled smooth, while the base paths were j
In fine shape. A brass band piped its i
liveliest airs down near the home players' j
bench.
"We hope to uncover some real base ;
ball today," said Manager Carrigan of
tne Boston Americans. "We have the i
players, the incentive, the big prize in !
base ball and plenty of opposition from
the other fellows."
Manager Carrigan sent Left-handed
Vean Gregg out to pitch in the batting
practice for the Bostons, evidently expecting
that his club would have to
face Marquard in the game.
Brooklyn* Given an Ovation.
The Brooklyns came on the field
while the Bostons were, at batting
practice. They were given a big hand j
by the crowd as Manager Robinson led ;
his men to the visitors' bench. Jack I
Coombs and Ivan Olson, old American j
Leaguers, came in for quite a reception j
from friends on the Boston club. The j
Brooklyns wore their gray traveling
uniforms with caps to match and black
and gray stockings. The Red Sox wore
white uniforms, white caps, with red
and white stockings.
While the batting practice of the Bostons
was on. Manager Carrigan and ;
('apt. Jack Barry, ofttimes called the j
Red Sox strategy board, conferred down j
at second base.
During the Brooklyn batting prac- *
tice "Duster" Mails, a lefthander. !
served up the benders, Manager Rob- j
inson evidently figuring that his club I
would be confronted by Dutch Leonard 1
or Babe Ruth. Then Sherrod Smith. '
another lefthander, was sent out to
pitch to the Brooklyns. While these !
usual preliminaries were being run, a j
lieet of photographers cruised about '
the playing field snapshotting players ;
in fielding and batting practice.
Manager Carrigan, while the Brooklyns
were having their batting practice.
took his team to the clubhouse,
where he had a talk with them and
gave his final instructions for the
game.
The mass of people who swarmed
through th* broad reaches of Braves'
Field, chosen as the stage for the local
games because of its tremendous seating
capacity, grew rapidly from small
groups who had spent th- night at
the bleacher gates. The night line
irti smaller than had preraed?d ary
world series game played in this city
In recent years. At daybreak knots of
fifty persons each were gathered on
the threshold of the park, awaiting
the opening of the gates. Some slept,
others walked out, while more eagerly
read forecasts of the game in the
morning newspapers Bonfires were
lighted to burn off the morning mists
which came ofT the Charles river.
Later automobile parties began to arrive.
Out of town enthusiasts poured in
by automobile and tram Many carried
suit cases or boxes serving the double
purpose of a seat and lunch receptacle.
The barriers were swung clear at 9
o'clock, and all were forced to pass immediately
into the grounds There they
found the field ironed into perfect playing
condition, the scars of a season's
spikes removed. A platform to the right
of the home plate aroused curiosity until
a ground keeper explained that it
was for the use of moving picture men.
The great capacity of the Ik-id had been
extended, providing spay* for 4".000 pe~f
Continued or. Second Page.)
The Star's Base Ball Extras
Will Give Complete Eeports
of the Worid Series Games
The Evening Star will is- I
sue base ball extras, describing
the world series cham- I
pionship base ball games. !
: giving details of each play, ,
| with box score, beginning
this afternoon with the
first contest at Boston.
These extras will be issued
immediately after each game.
While the games are in
progress, every play on the
field will be reproduced almost
simultaneously on the
electric scoreboard of The
Star on the nth street side
of The Star building. The
public is invited to witness
this reproduction of the
plays of the game.
I_
RAILWAY OPPOSES
CAR SERVICE ORDER
W. R. & E. Co. Makes an Appeal
and Threatens Action
in Court on Refusal.
4
CALLS STANDARDS THEORY
Serving:' notice that !n the event of
a refusal appeal will be made to the
courts, the Washington Railway and
Electric Company today filed with the
public utilities commission a letter
asking: reconsideration of the order recently
adopted by the commission establishing
a standard for street car
service In the District.
This standard, which goes into effect
November 1 and prescribed an average
service of 100 seats per 80 passengers
during non-rush hours and seven
square feet of available floor area per
passenger during rush hours, is characterized
by the company as being "unnecessary,
impracticable, unreasonable,
uncertain, vague, indefinite, incapable
of enforcement and invalid."
Seven specific objections are filed by
the company. The two most prominent
are that the order involves a rate question
and that the commission heretofore
has refused to consider rate questions
pending completion of the valuation,
and that the company is engaged
largely in interstate business, which
would make difficult compliance with
the order, since it applies only to the
District.
Position of the Company.
Concerning these points the company
says:
"That the establishment of such
standard of service involves the rates
of fare, and no consideration was given
by the commission to the effect of any
such order upon the revenues of this
company; and no hearing has been nad
as to the same, and until the public
utilities commission has completed its
valuation now in process of ascertainment,
the effect of any such measurement
or standard of service cannot be
ascertained; that you have heretofore
refused to go into rate questions until
in progress, ancl, for that reason alone,
have refused to approve the issue of
bonds for the necessary capital expenses
already incurred because of the pending
valuations.
"That this company is largely engaged
in the interstate transportation
of passengers on cars and lines affected
by said order; that paragraph
1 of section 8 of the act of Congress
creating the public utilities commission
confines its jurisdiction to the
transportation of passengers from one
point to another within the District of
Columbia, and that the act shall be so
applicable and be so construed as to
be free from any conflict with those
provisions of the Constitutions of the
United States and the laws in pursuance
thereof relating, to interstate com- i
merce; that the said standard of serr- !
ice makes no distinction between intra <
and interstate traffic, will necessarily
interfere with interstate traffic and
therefore violates the act creating said
commission and is ultra vires."
Among other objections are that the
order undertakes to measure street
railway service by a theoretical standard.
with no provision in the public
utilities act for the establishment of
such a standard; that the order is not
directed toward any existing lack of
service, no complaint having been made
or proof offered as to the inadequacy
of service; that the order undertakes
to require the company to make certain
observations of traffic. Interstate
as well as Intrastate, which can only
be done at much expehse. and that the
commission has no authority to require
such observations by the company.
Standards Called Impractical.
In an interview this afternoon, Clarence
P. King, president of the company,
stated that the railway corporation has
every desire to co-operate with the
commission, oui mai 11 considers tne
standard Impractical.
"We believe the commission's method
of providing for car service is theoretical
and impractical," said Mr. King;
"that the real way to arrange car serv;
ice is by meeting the conditions as they
actually exist, taking Into consideration
i all such questions as street congestion,
ability of the company to move the cars
and the working condition of the employes;
in other words, that things
; should be looked on as a practical prob1
lem rather than one to be solved by
' the application of a mathematical for!
mula. The company believes in prog;
ress and feels that the theoretical so;
called standard will retard rather than
aid in the improvement of car service."
STRATHAY DESTROYED
BY U-BOAT, SAY FRENCH
PARIS. October 7.?According to the
; commanding officer and men of a
) French torpedo boat, the British steamship
Strathay, sunk September 2, while
on her way from Newport News for
Glasgow, was destroyed by a submarine.
American citizens are said to
have been on board the Strathay.
Evidence given by all the men on the
torpedo boat that a submarine fired
e:ght shells at the Strathay in ten minute.-.
and then sank her with a torpedo,
after giving the crew fifteen minutes
to abandon the vessel. It is said the
torpedo boat put the submarine to
fi:ght and rescued the crew.
The Overseas News Agency of Berlin
said September 30 it was able to anI
nounce on competent authority that the
Strathay had not been attacked by a
German submarine.
.
Harden's Paper Suppressed.
! HEREIN. October 7.?Die Zukunft. of
has again been suppressed, apparently
! because of an antl-milltarlst article,
i the contributor of which pictured the
I horrible side of the war.
Hebrews Offer Prayers for Peace.
NEW YORK, October 7.?Special
\ prayers for peace are being offered in
; thousands of synagogues here,
throughout the country and In other
i*nds in connection with the celebration
of a Jewish New Year. The day
is one of constant prayer, including the
prayer for the dead which marks the
ending of the da. of atonement.
| Paralysis Case* Average 15 a Day.
| NEW YORK. October 7.?Fifteen a
day was the average of new cases of
infantile paralysis reported during the
week Just ended, according to an announcement
of the department of
health today. The department's record
for the twenty-four hours ending at
10 a^.m. today shows twelve new cases,
seven less than yesterday, and Ave
deaths, a decrease of one.
10 DISCUSS MENACE
IN TROLLEY POLES
Commissioners and W. R. and
E. Company Officials Arranging
for Conference.
PRECEDED BY INSPECTION
The Commissioners of the District of
Columbia and officials of the Washington
Railway and Electric Company are
arranging: to hold a conference in regard
to the trolley poles along the
company's line which may be located
at points dangerous for motorists and
persons in charge of other vehicles, following
the accident on the Bladensburg
road which resulted in the death of
one man because of the location of such
j a pole.
| This conference, it is understood, will
| take place after the Commissioners
I have made an inspection of trolley
! poles. When that is completed the
I Commissioners and the railway officials
will thoroughly canvass the situation
to see if any further changes should
be made in the interest of public safety.
Voluntary Precaution.
Voluntary emergency steps were taken
yesterday by the railway officials. Operating
under an emergency permit issued by
the District authorities, the company yesterday
and today removed pole 146 at the
intersection of Bladensburg road and 28th
street, where an automobile accident Monday
night resulted in the death of William
M. Schaffer, and pole 188 at the
District line, which is considered another
dangerous point. At both locations span
j wires have been installed and, as an extra
precaution, the company filled in the
crossing at the District line in order to
furnish a wider roadway for motor travel.
Other Chang-es Made.
In addition to these changes the company
has painted white poles 118, 145,
147 and 187, located at points which might
possibly be considered dangerous. With
these alterations and the fact that
every other pole is lighted, danger to
traffic should now be slight, the company's
officials believe, especially where
reasonable care is exercised by drivers.
J. H. Stephens, superintendent of roadways
of the company, made an inspection
of the line this afternoon and
| found that the changes had been made
according to the orders issued yesterI
day. He expressed the opinion that the
J steps taken had fully corrected the
I conditions complained of.
Two Thousand Vehicles Pass
Given Point on Bladensburg
Road in Twelve-Hour Period
Policeman Sontag of the ninth precinctjp^de
a count of the vehicles
pass?ng over Bladensburg road during
twelve hours one day this week. * Including
bicycles, it is stated, fully 2,000
vehicles passed a given point. The
information, it is stated, will be used
by the District Commissioners when
they consider the question of widening
the road.
Residents of the thoroughfare that is
so largely patronized by motorists between
Washington and Baltimore and
intermediate points are making anxious
inquiry as to the time the road probably
will be widened and otherwise improved.
No Benefit From Assessment.
"I paid a benefit assessment two
years ago," said a resident taxpayer,
"and nothing has been done. I fail to
see the justice of the government com'
pelling us to pay for something that
j we have not received. If we paid a
! private individual and had to wait two
! years for delivery I think we would be
: suing for what belongs to us."
Capt. Henry Schneider of the ninth
precinct, who has given much time to the
question of bettering conditions on the
road, told a Star Reporter that he had
suggested to a street railway representa|
tive the necessity for safeguarding the
: tracks and the road. He said he sug!
gested that red lights be placed on the
poles where the shifting occurs.
"Had the suggestion of placing such
lights on the poles about twelve feet
from the ground been followed," said the
; captain, "I believe Mr. Schaffer would
| not have been killed."
Danger Signals on Poles.
Similar danger signals, he suggested,
j should be placed on the poles where there
! are curves. Such safety-first work, he
! stated, would cost the company very llt;
tie, and, in his opinion, would have prei
vented Monday night's fatality. Such
: lights, he suggested, could be Installed in
j two days.
j Motor Cycle Policeman Galpin has been
; on Bladensburg road looking for scorchers
on the way to the Laurel races. Several
arrests have been made, he stated,
and more care was being exercised by
the motorists today.
| Interesting Pictures Fill
Planogravure Supplement
One of the most interesting
features in tomorrow's planograi
vure supplement of The Star is a
set of pictures of the latest governmental
building activities,
showing three views of the magnificent
Lincoln Memorial, rapidly
nearing completion in Potomac
| Park; the temple of the amphij
theater being built in Arlington,
I the Red Cross Memorial building
J and the new Interior Department
building.
A number of pictures of some
of the most interesting inhabitants
in the Zoo will appeal to
those who like to have "human
interest" served with their Sunday
breakfasts. One of the most
intimate pictures ever taken of
our fat friend, Mr. Hlppi, is in
this collection.
A group of European war pictures,
considered one of the best
assembled, will be found in tomorrow's
popular picture section.
The camera man. In his wanderings
"here and there" has collected
seven interesting pictures, to
be found on the back page of the
section.
I
I
s
1 ^
COAL MINERS TO DEMAND
A 7-HOUR WORKING DAY I
Insist It Has Been Made Necessary
by Increasing Use of
Machinery.
BELLAIRE. Ohio. October 7.?Demands
for a seven-hour day will be
made by coal miners of the country at
coming wage conferences, according to
John P. White, president of the United
i Mine Workers of America, speaking at !
the Miners' day celebration here today. }
Such a move is necessary, he said, in i
order to conserve the economic and social
welfare of members of the miners' i
organization and results from the in- j
crease in the use of mining machines. 1
President White reviewed the pro- j
gress made by the miners' union, declaring
that the men by their collective
efforts have raised themselves practically
from the condition of serfdom to
that "of respect in the eyes of the
whole community."
! "The persecution of our people in
i some sections where our organization
nas engaged in industrial strife is without
parallel." he added. "Particularly
do I refer to the great strikes of Colorado,
West Virginia and certain sections
of Pennsylvania. But the steady
entry of our movement into these
citadels of opposition is bearing fruit
and the opposition to the establishment
of our union is gradually yielding
to the enlightening influences of
the organization and wage increases
and reduction in hours of labor are being
accomplished in the interest of
j these deserving fellow workers."
; Thousands of miners from all parts
j of eastern Ohia attended the celebra!
tion and participated in a parade which
| preceded the address of President
i White. Other speakers were William
| Green, international secretary and
j treasurer of the United Mine Workers
j of America; John Walker, president of
S the Illinois State Federation of Labor,
j and John vloore, president of the ori
ganization of miners in Ohio,
i Miners' day is being celebrated
| throughout eastern Ohio here with a
i big picnic dinner and speechmaking.
BATTLE LULL CONTINUES
ON THE SOMME FRONT
PARIS, October 7.?The lull continues
on the Somme front. Today's official
i announcement says the night passed
quietly all along the battle line in
France.
There was a lively artillery duel on
. both sides of the Somme yesterday,
but there was no infantry action, except
for a slight French advance east
of Bouchavesnes. In the Woevre
French heavy artillery effectively
bombarded roads and military railway
stations, where certain activity had
been observed. A German aeroplane
was brought down.
DEFENDS THE ATTITUDE
OF THE U. S. DURING WAR;
LONDON, October 7.?The Weekly Nation
in a long article warmly defending
the attitude of the United States during
the war and regretting that her "hints
at mediation" have met only with cold
neglect says active intervention on the
side of the entente allies would have
brought almost insoluble problems for
the United States.
The newspaper declares, however, that
the United States has shown Its sympathy
with the entente allies in many
ways, "especially in tolerance of our
Innovations of sea law and treatment
of neutrals."
Agreeing that to dictate peace would
bring no real settlement of the problems
confronting humanity, the newspaper
contends that the entry of the
United States into a league of peace is
the only means for Insuring a balance
of force on the side of law-abiding nations."
"We shall be guilt? of a crime againat
civilization," says the newspaper, "If
when the moment of settlement arrives
we refuse the aid of the only power
which can bring a healing influence to
the world."
the _t
i
GERMAN SUBMARINE
ARRIVESAT NEWPORT
NEWPORT, R. I., October 7.
?A German submarine arrived irx
the harbor here this afternoon.
This announcement was made by
the navy radio station here.
presioentTsback
at shadow lawn
Program for Today Includes
Speech to Progressives
and Independents.
I LONG BRANCH, N. J., October 7.?
I President Wilson arrived at Shadow j
j Pawn at 10:20 o'clock this morning on
! his return from the west. His pro- '
| gram today included a speech to pro- j
i gressives and independents this after- i
; noon. The vanguard of the visiting \
! delegations ' -s due to arrive boon |
1 after the President's return. Arrange- j
ments were made for seating the pro'
gressives and independents on thei
' lawn and for admitting the general
; public to the grounds.
! it was considered possible that either
I today <?r later the 1'resident would re- j
; fer again to the settlement of the re!
eently threatened railroad strike. It
was authoritatively said today that he
| takes the position that Congress and j
1 he were not coerced into the settle- j
i ment. because neither side asked for '
i legislation. On the other hand. It was i
I1 said, he considers that he intervened j
after both sides had made it plain they 1
were ready for a strike.
| Bid for Independent Vote. j
He is known to believe that the coming
election will be decided by independents
and therefore he will make an especial
appeal to them today. In addition to the
independents the meeting will be attended
by a group of progressives, led by
Hugh Gordon Miller of New York. The
President will seek to show that because
of its legislative achievements of the last
| three years the democratic party more
: than the republican party deserves the
j support of progressive and independent
i voters.
[ The President returned to Shadow Lawn
I convinced that he has a good chance
of carrying several middle western states
| hitherto thought certainly republican. Gov.
Dunne of Illinois and Senator Walsh, in
charge of the democratic western head
quarters, assureu mm tnat most encouraging
reports are being received from
all parts of the west.
Eight-Hour Board Pleases.
Telegrams were received by the
President praising his selection of
Maj. Gen. Goethals, George Rublee and
E. E. Clark as members of the new
I eight-hour board. It was stated authoritatively
that he chose Gen. Goethals
because of his administrative ability
and acquaintanceship with railroad
problems; Mr. Clark because of his
service on the interstate commerce
commission and former connection with
the railroad brotherhoods, and Mr.
Rublee because of his belief that he
has an analytical mind.
The run through Iowa, Illinois, Ohio
and Indiana yesterday was made with
but few stops. Several times the
President stepped to the rear platform
of his private car, but his schedule had
not been announced in advance and
the crowds were small.
Mr. Wilson was told of published reports
that Ambassador Gerard, now
en route home from his post in Berlin,
was bringing suggestions that the
United States make a new movement
for peace. The statement was author- ,
ized that the President knew of no such'
mission. - ,
4
if 4s? SB
m *t :
||5 ^N5_ E
CPTtl -r|?or (?> O FtT* ? '' n
ow*0 ?*?< _ o UCA^CT |
|^WM| oP?5S1X> Ba^-L fj OLWf D#J*t _
? --. o wiuo oPou^ttPiAy
SgLgjj*>Mim hTCH^ BAU. w OS"OLfN |
JL 4 f Y| ^ ^ 9 '
SAYS MAN WAS INNOCENT
OF THE CRIME ALLEGED
Warden of Sing Sing Believes
Thomas Bambrick Unjustly Suffered
Electrocution for Murder.
SING SING, N. Y., October 7.?Thomas
; Bambrick of York city was eleci
trocuted In the state prison early today
for the murder of George Dapping.
a New York policeman, a year ago,
Bambrick had twice been reprieved by
the governor and unsuccessful attempts
to obtain a third reprieve continued up
to the very hour of his execution.
Thomas M. Osborne, warden of Sing
,Sing prison, asserted in an address before
two hundred bankers and business
men in New York city last night "there
is not a doubt in the world that this
! man is innocent." Mr. Osborne's declaration
surprised his audience, who were
I members of the industrial finance corporation
attending their annual con
vention.
Another Reprieve Sought.
The bankers immediately tried to get i
in communication with Gov. Whitman
to ask him to grant to Bambrick another
reprieve so that he could hear testimony
said to have been excluded cm technical
grounds when an appeal for
a new trial was dismissed Wednesday.
Several hurried to telephone booths
and endeavored to call the governor at
Albany, but his secretary, William A.
Orr, declined to have the governor
awakened unless the petitioners had
some new evidence to submit. Gov.
Whitman declined yesterday to extend
further executive clemency to Bambrick
after granting a hearing to his attor- :
ney.
Just before Bambrick left his cell for :
the death house today he again told the ;
prison chaplain, Rev. Father Cashin.
that he was innocent. Three electric i i
shocks caused death.
The shooting for which he was exe-j:
?_ulcu luuh piiice uuruig an altercation j
at an outing of the Thomas J. McManus i
Association of New York.
AMERICAN WEDS CHINESE.
Mexican and U. S. Officials Smooth
Way for Culmination of Romance.
SAN DIEGO. Cat, October 7.?Mexican
and United States officials smoothed
the way for the culmination of the
romance of William C. Wyatt, an
American, and Miss Daisy Joe, daughter
of a wealthy Chinese merchant of
San Francisco, and today the two, hus- j
band and wife, are back from Ense- j
nada, Lower California, whither they 1
sailed several days ago to be married. !
The bride's father and a Los Angfeles
attorney accompanied the couple to
Ensenada, the trip to Mexico being
necessitated because California's laws
prohibit the intermarriage of whites
and orientals.
It was feared that the Asiatic exclusion
law in force at Ensenada would
prevent the girl from landing there,
but Gov. Esteban Cantu of Lower California
ordered the port officials to permit
the couple to land for the ceremony,
which w.v3 witnessed by an
American hotel keeper and his wife.
The immigration authorities here, convinced
of the bride's American citizenship,
offered no objection to her return
from Lower California.
TOPIC, "A MAN'S RELIGION."
Brotherhood of St. Andrew Plane
Sunday Mas* Meeting.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, October 7.?Arrangements
were being made today by
the Brotherhood of St. Andrew of the
Protestant Episcopal Church for a mass
meeting tomorrow, which is expected
to take on larger proportions than any
similar gathering held In Cleveland In
recent years. The meeting comes as one
of the final sessions of the five-day convention
being held here by the brotherhood.
The general theme will be "a
man's religion."
Today's program Includes addresses
by Rev. Luke M. White, Montclalr, N.
J Oeorge H. Randall, associate secretary;
G. Frank Shelby and Franklin
p. Spencer, , J,
DISCREDITS REPORT
OFENVOniNlENT
State Department Doubts
Thot Amhoccfa Hnr Rprarri
i iiui niiluaoouuvi wwi ? .Bears
Peace Overtures.
RATHER THINKS HE DOESN'T
The State Department's view of reports
that Ambassador Gerard Is returning"
to the United States from Germany
prepared to seek mediation in
the war on behalf of Emperor William
was expressed today In this official announcement:
"We have no reason to believe there
Is anything In it, and every reason to
believe there is nothing In it."
Department officials refused to discuss
the report further except to recall
that when Mr. Gerard went to Copenhagen
from Berlin he expected to say
good-by to his wife, who was returning
to the United States, and was far from
certain that he would be able to leave
Europe at that time.
It was pointed out that If Mr. Gerard
had had any peace overtures from the
emperor there would have been no such
uncertainty in his mind about coming
home.
Count von Rernstorff, the German ambassador,
declare^ he knew positively
that it was untrue.
German Envoy to See President.
The German ambassador has an engagement
to call on the President at
Shadow Lawn Monday afternoon. He
is expected to present an autograph
ing to the President's personal appeal
for co-operation of European rulers In
Polish relief work. It Is not known
whether the ambassador will discuss
any other subject.
Officials at the State Department say
that only a specific request for mediation
by one of the belligerents would
bring about any effort by this country
to effect a European peace. Even if
a^direct offer were to come from one"
sldX doubt was expressed whether a
willingness to receive mediation .would
not have to come from both sides before
this country would act.
TWO STEAMERS DAMAGED
BY COLLISION DURING FOG
NORFOLK. Va., October 7.?The British
tramp steamer Hawkhead was in a
collision with the -Chesapeake line
steamer City of Norfolk in Hampton
roads last night. The Hawkhead was
not sunk as was reported last night.
She was able to proceed to the Newport
News shipyard today under her own
steam.
The City of Norfolk crashed tntwthe
tramp steamer In a -heavy fog, while
the latter was at anchor near 8e wells
point. Tne former was bound from
Norfolk for Baltimore with about 100
passengers, who were removed safely
to otner vessels after the collision. No
lives were lost and no one was injured.
The extent of the damage to the tramp
steamer is not yet known. The City of
Norfolk is at Pinners point with six
ITALIAN TROOPS SEIZE
STRONG AUSTRIAN POSITIQN
ROME, October 7.?The capture by
Italian troops of a strong Austrian position
on the slopes of Cima di Costabella,
in the Dolomite Alps, is announced
by the war office. The official
statement also reports the consolidation
of new Italian positions in the region
of Colbricon.
Cuban Steamer Reported Ashore.
NORFOLK, Va., October 7.?The Cuban
steamer Boloma, controlled by the Munson
line, is reported ashore at Body
Island, sixty miles south of Cape Henry.
The Merritt steamer Resolute has gone
to her sfid.
TOMORROW
"BEAUTIFUL NEW HOME OF THE ARTS
CLUB OF WASHINGTON" ?With
photograph* of this newest organization
in Washington clubdom.
"A VISIT TO THE PRESIDENT"?By
BRUCE BARTON.
"RUNNING DOWN COUNTERFEITERS OF
BUTTER"?How Uncle Sam's agents
ferret out and arrest butter moonshiners.
"THE TRIFLER8." another installment of
this remarkable serial, by FREDERICK
ORIN BARTLETT.
"NEW GAME LAWS PREPARED BY THE
BIOLOGICAL SURVEY"?This year's
crop of "dont's" for the hunter in the
District and in various states of the
Union.
"THE CRATER." a story well worth reading.
by INEZ HAYNES IRWIN.
"ITALY AS GREAT BRITAIN'S PARTNER
IN WORLD TRADE"?Interesting facts j
set forth in CHARLES M. PEPPER'S
trenchant style.
"A LETTER TO A YOUNG MAN IN THE j
FOOD BUSINESS," by BRUCE BARTON.
I
"HELPING THE BLIND TO HELP THE*.
SELVES," an interview with the chief
of the Reading Room for the Blind in
the Library of Congress.
"THE MAN WHO MADE X EQUAL Y." j
"STRAIGHT LINE FROM HEAD TO
HEELS DOMINATES STYLES." a
faahion article that should interest 1
every woman, by ANNE R ITT ENHOUSE.
"BEULAH JACOB Y. OPTIMIST."
"THE RAMBLER WRITE8 OF EASTERN
BRANCH LAND HOLDERS BEFORE
THE CIVIL WAR." j
"TRADE OF INTERIOR ALA8XA TO BE i
GREATLY INCREA8ED BY THE NEW %
RAILROAD." by FRANK G. CARPEN. ?
TER. ?
"YOUR VOTE." and "ANOTHER VIEW j
OF IT," and "HELP WANTED." and t
"GUINEAS AND SIXPENCES." and >
"THE 8CARLET LETTER." by HER. t
BERT KAUFMAN. c
?
IN THE i
SUNDAY STAR 1
I
RUMANIANS AGAIN
INVADE BULGARIA.
ROMEANNOUNCES
Von Mackensen's Attacks Re
ported Without Success.
Russ Gain in Dobrudja.
ALLIES RAPIDLY DRAW
NEARER TO MONASTIR
Serbs Reach Vela Boda Valley.
Entente Fleet Shells
Dedeagatch.
LONDON. October 7, S:SO p.m.?A
fresh Rumanian expedition is said to
hav? crossed the River Danube Into Bulgaria,
according to a wireless message
from Rome. Field Marshal von Mackensen,
the German commander, is said to
have sent troops to attack the Rumanian
force, but without success.
Petrograd today announces that In
Dobrudja the Russian and Rumanian offensive
continues, and Kara Baka,
Besaul and the heights between these
places have been occupied. Enemy counter
attacks were repelled with heavy
losses to him. According to a statement
by prisoners, one Bulgarian regiment has
been reduced to the strength of less
than a battalion.
The entente campaign against Monastir.
In southern Serbia, is developing
rapidly from both the south and the
east.
While allied forces have pressed to
within not much more than a half
dozen miles from Monastir on the
south, the 9Serbians have advanced
northwest from Kaimakcalan on the
western slopes of the Nidje ridge. Here
they are reported by Paris to have
reached the valley of the Vela Boda,
which empties into the Cerna at a
point almost directly east of Monastir
and about sixteen miles distant from
that city.
French in Big Advance.
Farther west along tne shores of
Lake Presba the entente operation
against the Bulgarians also is making
progress, according to Paris. French
troops are participating in the movement
here and have advanced northward
three miles along the shores of
the lake from Popli to the town of
German, which is less than two miles
from the Serbian border and fifteen
miles southwest of Monastir.
British forces, operating on the east
I hank of the Struma, on the Macedonian
front, has pressed the Bulgarians further
hack, the war office announced today.
! Several additional villages have been occupied
by the British.
Sofia's official report today announces
the defeat of a Serbian attempt to cross
the Cerna southeast of Monastir, and the
repulse of an attack near Rahovo in the
Moglenica valley, farther along the line
to the east.
The latest Bulgarian statement says:
'Macedonian front?Between Presba
lake and the Vardar there were no important
events. Serbian attempts to
cross the Cerna near the village of
Skotchiwlr. were frustrated by a counter
attack in which we captured thirty
An n era In at Rahovo
hill (in the Moglenica vaFiey). was repulsed
by our fire.
Dedeagatch Is Shelled.
"On the Aegean coast enemy vessels
are cruising actively. A fleet shelled
Dedeagatch and the railway line,
causing only unimportant damage. Our
seaplanes attacked the fleet and forced
it to retreat to the high seas.
"Rumanian front?Along the Danube
calm prevails. After the final failure of
the Rumanian attempt to cross the
Danube near Rahovo our artillery destroyed
the bridging material which
the Rumanians drew across to their
bank of the river, while the material
left on our side was saved. We captured
twenty ammunition and other
cars containing baggage and war material.
"In Dobrudja repeated attacks by the
enemy from the line Karagadji-Amzacea-Perveli
broke down under our fire.
In the course of a successful counter
attack we captured sixty Russians.
"An enemy fleet is cruising off the
Black sea coast."
Teutonic troops have made progress
on the entire front in eastern Transylvania,
according to an official statement
issued today by the German army headquarters.
Gounrd has been also sained
by the forces of the central powers near
Oraova.
Rumanians Withdraw.
Rumanian troops have withdrawn
from their positions in the region of
Fogaras, Transylvania, before attacks
of superior forces, says the official
statement issued by the war office today.
Violent engagements continue in
other secttons of Transylvania.
On the Transylvania front Thursday
the Rumanians were defeated again,
according to the Berlin statement. In
the Georgeny sector Austro-Hungarian
troops drove them out of their positions
southwest of Libanfalva. repulsed
attacks further south against Balkeos
height and recaptured the positions on
both sides of the Magyaros-Parajd
road which were lost on Wednesday, it
is claimed. More than 200 prisoners
were brought in.
The Teutonic troops under command
of Gen. von Falkenhayn after successful
engagements near Reps, Koehalom
and Kiralyhalma pressed back the enemy
over the Homorod and Alt rivers,
according to Berlin. A stubbornly defended
position in the Sinca sector was
stormed. Several hundred men were
made prisoner and two heavy guns,
twenty-eight field guns and thirteen
machine guns were captured. The enemy
is in retreat through the Geister
forest and is being pursued."
Wounded Canadian Takes
62 Prisoners After He
Kills and Wounds Others
. OTTAWA, Ont., October 7.?The exploit
of a wounded Canadian private,
vho leaped from hia trench, killed and
vounded many Germans, and compelled
lixty-two others to surrender, Is described
in a dispatch received here
'rom the Canadian headquarters in
France. The communication states
hat the bravery of the unnamed private
made it possible for his battalion
o capture 250 yards of trench at a
ritical moment in the general attack.
?ince their offensive began, the distatch
says, the Canadians have wrestid
nearly three square miles of terriory
from the Germans.
"Severe lighting: continued almost
without cessation during Ilia Past
I
