ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOP LE
See Times-Dispatch Wanl Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
fJidjmoni STitncsPispatcl]
BRING IN YOUR WANT
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. M.
Early Delivery of Sunday Want Ads In*
sures Correct Classification
66th YEAR
VOLUME 00
N I'M It 1311 I?N1
iW?*" ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
Gather From All Parts of Coun
try for Opening of World's
Series Games To-Day.
BOSTON IS 10-T0-7 FAVORITE
Probable Line-Ups Show That
Marquard and Leonard Will
Be Opposing Pitchers.
First Clash To-Day
in World's Series
Horn*" oil l ht ii ltd lug flirt* concern
ing the II rut flu mIi or the 101(1
wnrlil'* ehn injiI<?iimli I |i i
Time?p. )|. ?i>.tinj.
Place?Knives' Plelil, Ronton,
rennjN?IloNf mi lied So.\, llronkl i n
DnilRrr*.
Hettlng?Hill in TO Hint Ited So\
vrln* aeries; 10 to 1? Hint Hrtl So*
*vlni% to-dn> 'h un hir.
Prolui li It* croud?v 17,01111.
Prolml>lr rri'vlptk?sim.non.
Hi-jrulnr iirlrm range?Ho* urn In,
*?"?: (c r 11 ii ?| Mtn m|, y.|, ,,?,|||on> 9._.,
blenchcrn. 91 and r.O cents.
'I'll** Orolinlilf hailing nrilrr Mill
be oh follou nj
Brooklyn Nationals ? Johnson.
right lie III ; llllllllf rl, first llltse |
Myers, center llelili \\ lieiit. left
Held j I tilshatt. second liases Mou
rey, third liases Olson. shortstops
MfjerN, en I rlirri Mnr<|iiiirtl. pitcher.
lioMton \ liter leu hi,? Hooper, right*
Held; .1 n n \ rln, si-cmiil lint.es Walker,
venter llelds llolill t*cl, ilr*t liase;
Lewis, |rft llelds lisirdner, third
bnsei Setiu, shortstop; < nrrlgiiu,
catelier; Leonard, pitcher.
BOSTON", it tr,|,or r.?Wit), mini con
fidence it, th.- .tl.lllty of u* honie ,f.arn
to com* out victorious in th<- world's
Series has.I,.ill struggle. Boston awaits
the opening of the KM-; classic to-mor
row. The opt iiiiImh and 11trh t iri ir spirit
of the Brooklyn t.am, which arrived
to-nlcht, added interest ,he ln)ppm|.
lnff^trtiKi?l... tut the f.i It h of the local
fans in the Red Sox remained un
shaken.
I he bet tint to-night is at odds of
ten to seven, with littln Brooklyn
money in Mu.ht. Whil- sanguine as to
the outcome, th- Hoston enthusiasts
expe. t the National League ronri'si'ntn
lives to put up a determined struggle.
L very hotel ui th. city to-nicht is
filled to capacity, the registers show,
ing hundreds having come from the
Mississippi Valley and the South t?>
witness the names. The weather fore
cast for to-morrow is propitious.
To-night I'.undreds of men and hoys
gathered outside the wall of Hraves'
Field for an sill-night vigil.
As In past years, the gates leading
to the uni eserved sections of the
stands and bleachers will he opened
early to-morrow morning, and it was
apparent that these sections would he
filled hours before the game began, at
2 P. M.
With the exception of a few un
called-for all-ittnents, every reserved
seat was sold out to-night. and these
will ho snapped up immediately they
aro put on sale jit the box office to
morrow morning.
Not mam skats orn:nr'i)
FOIt s\M-: IIV SPIit*ri,AT?HS
So great has been the demand for
seats that not many are offered for
pale by speculators. President l.an
nln, of the itosion club, stated that
he had been forced to buy hack, at a
premium, some tickets which he needed
for friends who had applied and could
not be refused at the last minute.
Speculators fortunate to secure even
two seats reaped a profit of more than
100 per cent on their Investment. Kven
this was a dangerous proceeding, for
several were arrested during the after
noon for traflicking In the tickets at
advanced prices.
Soon after Presidents Ran Johnson,
of tho American League, and John K.
Tener. of the National League, ar
rived from New York to-day, the posi
tions of the umpires for the opening
games were assigned and the an
nouncement made that the infield-fly
rulo of the two leagues would be ob
served under American League regula
tions when the clubs were playing at
the. Boston park and under the Na
tional League code at Brooklyn Park.
All the Boston club players were out
for practice during the afternoon at
Braves' Field, home of the local Na
tional League club, where tho games
In this city are to be played. Every
player excepf Captain Jack Barry and
George Foster, who will not partici
pate In the series, owing to injuries,
reported in- perfect condition. Their
work showed that they were on edges.
"Bhookr.v.v iioosthiis"
Af'C'OJIPA \ V Til Kf H TIJAM
The Brooklyn players and officials
arrived this evening, accompanied by
some of the newly formed "Brooklyn
Boosters' Club."
Manager Robertson said every mem
ber of his team was in shape, and
expected to win. The invading club
was met at the station by a large
crowd of local fans, who chaired the
players.
Boston adherents expect to see Ruhe
Marquard go on the mound for the
Superbas to-morrow, and even money
Is the best that local supporters will
wager, even though Leonard is ex
pected to he Manager Carrigan's
choice. If Leonard pitches. Outfielder
Casey Stingrl will not he In the
Brooklyn line-up.
The umpires will be stationer! as
follows:
Connelly (American League) behind
tho plate; O'Day (National League),
Dn tho bases; Blneen (American
League), left field; Qulgloy (National
League), right field.
Leaguo confidence and owners ex
pressed confidence in tho ability of
their teems to win the Rerloa, but thoro
*vaa an evident underourrent of opinion
that tho contest would be unuaually
Cloa*.
British Tramp Sunk
in Norfolk Harbor
Bay Liner "City of Norfolk"
Badly Damaged but There
Is No Loss of Life.
NORFOLK, October ??. ? In a collision
in tho inner harbor shortly before 8
o'clock to-night; the British tramp
steamer llawkhead, sai<l to have been
at anchor, was sunk. and tlio Bay liner
City of Norfolk, of the Chesapeake ?
Steamship Company's line, was badly :
damaged. There was no loss of life ,
and, so far as can be learned, no one
seriously injured.
The accident was due to a heavy j
fog hanging over the harbor. The City
of Norfolk was outward-bound, and
carried in the neighborhood of 100
passengers. The majority were at
supper wli?*n the crash came. Oreal
excitement prevailed for a few min
utes. but was quickly quieted by the
ofllcers <?n the liner.
Fearing that the damage to* the
steamer was greater than could be
ascertained, the passengers on the City
of Norfolk were Immediately trans
ferred to the Old Dominion River
I steamer Pocahontas, where they re
mained only a few minutes, when the
majority were transferred to an out
going Old May Line steamer f\?r the
continuation of the voyage up the bay.
About tifteen of the passengers ele? t
to return to Norfolk.
The Hawkhead sank about fi f??-?-n
minutes after the collision. She i> in
about thirty feet of water. She sank
stern first, and the vessel's bow is .Mill
visible from the piers. The .mail
boats from the City of Norfolk. 111 ??
Pocahontas and other harbor boats in
; the vicinity rescued all on board tho
tramp.
The bow of the City of Norfolk was
' rushed for ten feet, but tho bulk
heads held well, and she remained
! afloat. She is declared to be in no
j danger, although it will be necessary
to send her to th<* shipyard. The Nor
folk returned to lier pier with the as
sistance of the company's tugs, rushed
to the scene.
Kxcept tip- statement that the har
bor was enveloped In fog, ofliclais have
not given any cause for the collision.
ESCAPES FROM HIS CAPTORS
>llne Manager. Held for SI.I.OIVO Itan
kiim, MiihiIs One of Kidnaper* ami
lirtH A?ny Safely.
OAK CREKK. <''">1,. October fi. -Kid
naped on Wednesday night by a band
of Creeks and held for 0"0 ran* 'in,
Robert Perry, thirty-five years old.
manager of the Moffett coal mines at
oak Cifok, e;?rly to-day shot one of
his captors, wounding him seriously,
and escaped.
The Hreeks broke into I'errv's horse
on Wednesday ni?M and took him to
a deserted cabin In a canyon twenty
miles from here.
While one of the kidnapers was pre
paring a meal. Perry worked his arms
free from the ropes with which
was tied and. obtaining a revolver f-om
one of the men on guard, shot his
assailant and escaped. lie readied a
ranch ten mil's away and telephoned
word of hi* escape.
Ills father. S. M. Perry, a niire
owner, yesterday received a letter de
manding IK,,000 as ransom for hts son's
life.
MRS. HUERTA IN MEXICO
Widow of Former President I'lnern
Wrratlt" at Kntrniiee to llu*
batid'n 'I'nnili.
Kb PASO. TKX., October ?'..?After
i coming here heavily veiled and with
j only a few knowing of her visit, Mrs.
| Victoriano iluerta, widow of General
I Iluerta, once Provisional President of
Mexico, yesterday placed a wreath at
the entrance to her husband's tomb in
Concordia Cemetery. She departed for
Cuba to-day, according to her attor
neys.
The utmost secrecy was maintained
regarding Mrs. Huerta's visit. She
made no formal claim to the SIS.noo
deposited here for those who, with her
husband, were arrested in connection
with the alleged neutrality violation
conspiracy in June. 101a.
She was accompanied l>> her (laugh
ter. Mrs. Klena Quiroz.
DELAYED BY HEAVY FOG
Simmer From Norfolk and Old i'oitif
lieiiclies AViiNliiiiuInn Nine and a
Half Hour* Ileliind Time.
WASHINGTON. October fi.?Nine and
\ half hours behind schedule, the Nor
folk and Western Steamboat Company's
steamer Southland arrived here at
4:30 o'clock this afternoon from Nor
folk and Old Point Comfort. The
vessel was delayed by a heavy fog
which hung over Chesapeake Bay and
the Potomac River last night.
CHALLENGE TO SHERMAN
Samuel (iomper* Wiintx t(? Meet
nilaolH Senator in I'ulilic
Debate.
SPRINf!FIKT<r>, 11-1-.. October fi ?
Senator Sherman, of Illinois, has been
challenged to meet in public debate
Samuel Onnipcrs, president of tho
American Federation of Labor, wliom
Senator Sherman recently attacked In
the Senate. The challenge was sent
to Sherman on behalf of the Illinois
Federation of Labor and the Chicago
Federation of Labor.
HUGHES IN NEWARK
.Spend* Hour Visiting: Iloyliond Home,
Where III* Knther M'ns Ilnptlst
Mlnlntrr From 18(10 to 1N7-I.
MONTCLAIR. N. J., October (5.?
Charles E. Hughes spent an hour this
afternoon visiting his boyhood home
In Newark* N. J., where his father was
minister of a Baptist Church from
1869 to 1874. Tho house In which the
presidential nominee lived in his
youth now le unoccupied,
. . . . i
Age Limit of Children Coming
Into State Reduced From
Sixteen to Twelve.
HELP TO BOARDING SCHOOLS
State Health Commissioner Wil-(
liams Discusses Prevention of
Infantile Paralysis.
K'?llnwirm a onn yrs^nlny
Itf'tivopn State Health Commissioner'
Williams and Dr. W. M. Smith, of!
Alexandria. pr^siilont of the State ;
Board of Health, an nrdor was entered ]
by ?"''?inn-issioti?-r Williams in the fol- I
lowing language;
'?'ar'-fnl analysis of complete re- j
turns for infant I-- paralysis havinir
shown that 07 per i'i>nt of eases in '
Virginia are un<li r twelve years. Stato |
! quarantine against infantile paralysis ,
is loworwi t.? that age a ft or 12:1 A. j
M . Hi tiil^r ^ Special rases .will ho !
? onsl?l<--rof| fin th?ir merits. Thus far
Virginia has had less paralysis than
'any Stat" on the Atlantic seaboard.
W.- attribute this ti< qua rant ine. If
the dis^tse continues to spread in
\ta.- . Hi'httsi't ts and Maryland. Virginia
may 1./ compelled to qua rant ine cliil
d?fit utvl. r twelve from these States."
1 '?:?!?? r the quarantine urilrr entered
by the State hoard ?.ti August ??*., Vir- |
KMii.i w ?< s uticondi t iona 11 y closed to.
hildren tinder sixteen years coming
fr* tn \'?-w York. New .|er?ey and Penn- i
sylvania The only exception allowed |
wa.- iti the (iso of Viririnia children re- i
turning jli"ir hotnos. who, it was [
provided. had to ho quarantined for 1
two w?.-ks after their return.
\?.i: mmit is Iti:i)t < i-.I>
I'ltllM M\Ti:i:\ TO TXVKIjVK
The qua rantine regulation remains
?i ? it was 1>< -fore, with two important
?hanges ln:;toad of sixteen. twelve
years is !ivd as the aire under which
children from th> proscribed States
will he barred. an<l a modification I
haves room r>r a suspension of even
this limitation in pccial cases, to be
? ?ns der- I on th-r merit. The new
t ill r i'o<s int'- efjVi-t tn.morrow night.
? tv minute after midnight
III th> payr f. w days complaints have
I.e. n r? tr1 store<l hy owners of hoarding
and preparatory schools atrainst the
hardships imposed r.n them by the j
stringent order of August 2?". Many of j
them draw li.ri.-o patronage from the |
pf'S'-ril?ef| Stales. rind tho quarantine
had til- eff?.. t r.f reducing the >ittend- i
atiee. sine.- many of the pupils were
und? r sixto* ii^ y.-ars of age.
The sta?' Health (opartment gave
serious attention tn these and similar
complaints. l.ut withheld action until
in amendment of the quarantine could
ho a? ? omplished without danger. Tile
modified regulation will allow much
uinri I'rei .hun of movement, and will
practically euro the disability com
p: 11 ii* d of bv tile : . hooj:'
i?\ \i:it now 'niftiiviTA*
I'UOM STATU OI-" 1IAItVI.\NI>
While the infantile paralysis situa
tion in New York is be -otning less
alarming, the Virginia authorities are
. ? riousiy impressed with the danger
tlin-atoned from Maryland, where the
disi-as< ;.,,~r?rs to be spreading.
< onnectii-ut and Massachusetts ate
being c.uiirllt iU the epidemic circle
that appears to be radiating concon
trienii> from New York <"ity. Should
the situation in these States prow
j markedly worse, Virginia, it was
St.lt'-d, \\ ?11 be compelled to ? tllariTe >t.->
quarantine to include them.
"We want to avoid quarantining
against Maryland if possible." said
I>r. Williams yesterday. "At present
the situation there does not appear to
warrant such a step, and cold weather
may render it altogether unnecessary.
The city of Italtimote to-day has
twenty-two eases under treatment,
and we are watching developments
there closely.
"There is no justification for less
ening our precautions, because the sit
uation in New York has improved As
I said before, the infection seems to
be traveling in widening circles front
that city as ,i center. Northward it
has ctossed Connecticut, entered Mas
sachusetts and is threatening Itoston.
Southward it has progressed through
'the New Jersey cities. Philadelphia
.and P.altimore. Logically, Richmond is
the next focus of infection. We hope
to prevent that, and the only wa\ to
do it is to maintain our vigilance."
I-'I KT\ - I WO I ASKS 1 \
MitciM.i i\ sr.i'Ti:>:m:it
! duly in the last two months has the
poliomyelitis record in Virginia been
I more alarming than the record of
i previous years. The earlier months
followed closely the annual average.
In August, however, thirty-live cases
: were reported, as against twelve cases
I for August, 1 fi15. and in September
tifty-two cases, as against fifteen cases
I for September, lPla.
Infantile paralysis st: tislics for Vtr
! ginia covering .Inly, August and Sep
i tember show that Ml.'i per cent of the
cases were white and only !?<..% per
cent colored. ? >f the patients. r?:: . per
eenl were male and 11?.S per cent fe
male.
The age limit of the patients during
this three-month period was tlfteen.
More t list ii !iS per cent were under
fourteen years old and -I per cent
were tinder eleven. Children under
ten years old formed !'rt.2 per cent of
the total number of eases; under nine
years. 92.5 per cent; under eight. SO.9
per cent; under seven, *7.t per eent;
under six, S'J.H per cent;, under live,
77.11 per cent; under four. tel.7 per cent;
under three, 4!?.."? per cent; under two,
3t;.!t per cent, and under one year. 21.5
per cent.
SCHOOI. AT MO.MIOI-: OI.OSK1J
ON ACCOr.XT OK I'A It A l.YSIS
| Special to The Times-1>lspa tch. I
AM 11KRST, VA? October C.?The public
school at Monroe was ordered closed
yesterday on account of infantile pa
ralysis. Turner Christian, aged six
years, who was a pupil in the primary
department, becntnolll on Tuesday, and
Dr. H. D. Scott, the attending physician,
decided that the child was suffering
from the drcadod disease.
State Board of Education to Sift
Allegation of Politics in
Printing Award.
EVERETT MAKES DENIAL
Says Change Was Not Due to
Saunders's Refusal to Sup
port Stearnes.
Letters from ?*lyde \V. Samplers, of
It Ichmond. . hair man of the City ami
secretary^of i?e Third District Demo
.rati.- Committee, will be laid before
Hoard of Kducat/on to-day.
th.it tin? contract for printing
the Virginia Journal of IMuratlon. pub
lished by authority of the board, was
withdrawn from his printing estab
lishment because he declined to prom
is' h:s |><? Ji?i. ;?] support to Superinten
dent of Public Instruction U. c.
Stearnes in the latter's campaign for
re-election next August.
The correspondence in the course of
whii'h this charge was made passed
between Mr Saunders and J \\\ Hve
rett, editor of t>10 Journal of IMu ca
tion. it .overs a period from August
_v' to i ???toher in the opening letter.
Mr Saunders expresses regret that * lie
publishing contract had been taken
away from him without allowing him
"it opportunity to submit bids on the
same ype, iri. at ions ?iven liis success
ful competitor
?SA1 N sa \ s t OM K At t 111 \<;i:i)
??N Ills M I'POIt r or SI'KAIt.VK.S
"I sincerely hope," wrote Mr. Saun
ters. concluding his letter of August
-v. that my refusal of your request
t<> go uji am) pledge niy support to
Mr. Stearnes for re-election had noth
ing to do with your action in this
t ra nsact ion."
Mr. Kverett. in his reply, denied that
the competing bidders had been given
an advantage over him. defending his
award of the contract to another llrm.
??it business grounds. He emphatically
denied that the- action had anything to
w''tli the candidacy of Mr. Stearnes.
I he latter, he said, knew nothing of
the transaction, and was not even then.
\ucust .{it, Informed of the withdrawal
of the contract from Mr. Saunders.
This brought from Mr. Saunders
another letter, dated September IS, jn
which he went at length into the tech
nical d, tails of the specifications on
which bids were invited, to show, as he
claimed, that he had not received a
fair deal.
I.II MIT .s 1:1.1. his
INKMKMK roil l>ltivi'l\<; JOII
The letter concluded:
"The understanding of the several
people who heard the conversation be
tween you and me, when at my ofllce,
in regard to the matter, was that the
question of the publication was settled
recording to the agreement between
> 011 and myself. Wo were very much
.-ui prised to find that wo were not
W"ini; to publish the journal this year,
aft.-r what took place, and I can only
"count for same on account of my
refusal t? ? pledge my support to Mr.
Stearnes as the reason for losing .the
publication.
"As I explained to you. 1 was the
chairman >>f the i"itv Democratic Com
mittee and secretary of the Third Dis
trict Democratic Committee, and I
would not be worthy to hold either
position had I been willing to sell the
influence of my position for a job of
printing. As long as 1 have been on
the committee of the Democratic party,
!ia\e never allowed any person to
?>ni| ensate me for services rendered,
and I hope the day may never come
that 1 am willing to sell the ofllce given
me by the people of this city to pro
motmy private business.
UOI I.I) STII.I. 1IK CO.VritACTOIl IF
\V I I.I.I X<; TO VOTB AS WA\TEI)
"Whether Mr. Stearnes knew of your
action or not makes very little differ
ence. as from all accounts coming to
1 e from reliable sources you are act
'11;,s "no ,,f ,lis managers in his cam
paign. and the excuse of his not know
1'"" "f vol,r ixoposltlon to me amounts
i" very little, as you are a paid State
otlicer and his assistant.
"Alter taking all the above in con
sideration. I am forced to one
s""1: ha<1 1 I'o^ii willing to pledge my
i'pport to Mr. Stearnes for re-election,
! would still be the contractor I pub
lisher) for the School Journal.
"No question could have been raised
lo*a'?' to this matter had you not
raised the question of my supporting
.Mi. Stearnes when you came to get the
tor printing a State publication,
but the fact of your tying to your
proposition my support for Mr. Stearnes
forces me to the above conclusion.
"It was very unfortunte that vou
.should have seen fit to couple the print
ing matter with my support of Mr
Stearnes. as one is forced to the .in
clusion that the printing of the School
.fourna 1 was placed for the benefit of
Mr. Stearnes. It would be all right
for vou or me to <lo so 1., our private
airnirs. but it does not seem right for
a paid Stat,, oflicer. It was vour dutv
to get the best price you could, but in
inst ice you slionld Jhavc used the same
(' 'onI i 11 ued on Second Page.)
Watch Worlds Series
on T.-D. Score Board
The world scries, play by play,
will lie shown on the score
-lioiird at The Tillies-Dispatch llnlld
tng throughout tlic series, which
opens (Ills afternoon. The an
nouncement In In line with the
policy of the paper to furnish I(n
renders the tlrst news of nil nueh
big events, anil Is but one of the
several features tlirough which The
Times-Dispatch will keep its readers
Informed of every move nitnle by
players 011 the battling teams.
Sinned stories by husehall experts,
in addition to the Associated Press
reports, will tell each day of the
work done l>y the various players.
Germany Reported
as Asking Wilson
to Sue for Peace
Gerard Is Said to Be on
Way to America Bearing
Request to President
From Berlin.
XK\Y YORK. October 6.?Th? Xew
1 "rk Kvening I'ost to-flny publishes a
story uAying that It lias been learned
from u trustworthy source that Am
bassador James \V. Gerard, now on his
way back from Germany, will lay be
fore President Wilson a request that
the President use his good ofllces In
fuiiicr for peace with the allies.
"Germany has definitely decided to
apply to President Wilson." the article
reads, "to use his good offices in suing
for peace with the allies. This was
learned to-day from sources in a posi
tion t., have absolutely trustworthy in
formation on these matters.
"It is understood that Ambassador
James W. Gerard, who is on his way
over here, will lay the Kaiser s request
before President Wilson within a week.
It is a fact, however positively it
may have been denied oltleially. that
the possibility of President Wilson act
ing as mediator has been discussed by .
German ofllelals with Ambassador Ge- I
?ard. |i is, therefore, by no means'
surprising that the reports now take
definite shape in connection with .Mr.
Gerard's trip to this country."
Ambassador Gerard is on board the;
!? rederik V|JI.. due in .Yew York about
1 uesilay next.
IIKIt.VSTOItKK f>f:(l,\iu;s
KTOHV IS I XTHl'Io!
\\ ASHIXGTOX. October ti.? Hanking
ofliciaIs of the State Department said
to-day they had no information to in-!
dicate that Ambassador Gerard is I
bringing home a request from Ger- 1
many that the United States Intercede!
to end the Kuropean war, and were in- I
dined not to believe the storv. Count j
von liernstorff. the German ambas-!
sudor, declared he knew positively that
it was untrue.
While the department does not be
lieve Mr. Gerald would accept so im
portant a mission without noiifving
his government, it is realized that
available means of communication be
tween Washington and Merlin are verv
hazardous where delicate subjects are
involved. The ambassador, it is felt,1
mlirht be especially reluctant to <oni-f
mimical., with the department regard-!
Ins a matter as Important as a peace!
proposal, with the risk that his mes- I
sages might fill i?t? the hands of the!
allies.
It was declared. ..n the other!
hand, that the Washington government '
would have knowledge of such a mis- j
! sion if authentic word of it had reached
any one in the United States.
The German ambassador would not
discuss the story, beyond saying It was i
untrue, but he was very emphatic in i
his declaration that he had informa
tion positively disproving it.
<?m?ials at the state Department to-,
day said that only a speciilc request
for mediation by one of the belliger
ents \vouid bring about any effort by
this country lo effect a Kuropeai* I
peace.
There Is a growing conviction among
some officials that a military pfcace,
brought about by almost direct ne- I
gotiations between the belligerents,
will be th.' possible outcome of the
war. Poth groups of belligerents are!
thought to l.c opposed to negoiiations i
by a third party.
I'HOtll.MJVr I'IN.tM ||.;n
lti:S!M>.V.SI|II.|> -I'OIty
to The Times-I >ispnt, ,. ,
XKW VOIIK", October C.?The presi
dent of one of the largest instltutioiiH
in the financ ial district said to-day that
Germany had asked Ambassador Gerard
to present a letter to President Wil
son asking his good ofllces in bring
ing about peace.
lie further stated that the ambas
sador is ii..\\ lb.- bearer of this letter,
and would present it lo the President
immediately upon his arrival here. .Mr.
Gerard is i ;.a.-seiiger on the Krederi. U
\ lli . whi? ii i- due on Tuesday
Quest join I as to tlie soui"' e nl" his I
information, the tinaix-ier said:
1 would not ma lie this statement if
I were not absolutely sure of my fac ts, i
The news has come to me from the I
most authoritative sources imaginable. I
I know that Germany has requested the
President to act. I know that the am
bassador is bearing Germany's over
tures. This is all I can say for the I
present "
The standing of the financier is so
unimpeachable, and his source of news
so authoritative, that Wall Street cred- '
iterl the statement without question.
Immediately there was a sharp break
ill the so-called war stocks
The statement caused a tremendous
stir. It engaged the attention not only
of the financial district, but of big
business m? n in all parts of the city.
Within an hour after the statement
was issued, ofliciaj Washington took
heed of it denials were to be expected
in the absence of any oflldal com
munication that could be made public.
Those denials were instantly forthcom
ing.
NTATIO.MK.NT ill '.COM l-'.S
<? lo*loii.i i.i?v <
Hut in spite of Washington's attitude,
the statement became more generally
credited. Particular significance was
attached to the stories emanating from
Washington only the night before to
the effect that no peace proposals were
in contemplation by this government.
Also a new significance became at
tached to the recent utterances of Lloyd
George, the British War Minister, in
which he sounded what, in the c|r-\
enmstanees, seemed like a timely note
of warning. Any attempt on the part
of neutrals to bring about mediation
at this particular Juncture, the War
(Continued on Socond PageT) '"*
Forgets His Differences
With President Wilson
01? It HAM, X. t\. Oetolicr 0 H?p
re.nentntD e Claude Kitchen, chair
man of (ho Mouse Committee on
H'nyn nii?l MriuiK, declared In nil a (I -
ilrrtiK lirrr to-nlulit Hint he In id
"Ntvullowrd (It** differences cropping
out iH'lwcrn I'rr.ildfnl Wilson and
my?cIf ut the l?Mt CnnRrPHn."
"Kvrrj1 luipiilNr In my hrlnR Im
|irU me to forget flume differences
nnd to Mipporl Woodrow Wilson and
tlio Democratic party enthusiasti
cally," he added.
TRIAL COURT REVERSED
II ATTUfiLITft CASE
I'nited Stales Circuit Court of Ap
peals Remands Steamship Suit
for Further Hearing.
VKSSKL IS IMILVATKIjY owned
Cannot Claim Inttnuiiily From Court !
Proceedings From Fart That Hoat
Was Under Charter to Italian Gov*
ernment When Acritlent Occurred.
Reversing the decision of District
Judge Waddill, which released the
Italian steamship Attuulita. now lying
in the Elizabeth Illver near Norfolk,
under arrest on the libel claim of the
owner: ">f the damaged Creek steam
ship Mina. Circuit Judges Pritchard
and Knapp and District Judge Ross,
sitting in special session of the I'nited
States Circuit Court of Appeals, yes
terday remanded the case t<> the lower
court for further proceedings not in
consistent with the higher opinion.
<>n her way to the I'nited States
under orders from the Italian pnv
ernment. the privately owned Attua
lita near Gibraltar damaged the Creek
steamship Mina in a collision. The
owners of the injured vessel instituted
a tihel suit in the I'nited States Dis
trict Court for the sum of $800,000.
In his decision ordering the release
of the Italian ship. Judge Waddill ex
pressed the view that although the
vessel was owned by private persons,
she was moving under orde.'s of the
mivernment and on her way to Hulti
niore for a government cargo, and that,
therefore, the case was a contention
of an individual against a sovereign
government. As such a case, it was
not in the Jurisdiction of a court of
the United States to decide, and the
vessel was ordered released.
win i,i) t iti:\'ri-: i.aim.'I-: ci.ass
itiosi'oNsini.i-: to mi o\io
Kspecial attention was given in the
decision to the fact that the order of
the lower court tended to create a
large class-of ships, those owned pri
vately and. requisitioned in time of war
for government service, for whose ac
tions no person or government was re
sponsible.
The decision of ihe court follows:
The appellee steamship makes tlvo
content ions.
I. The decree below is not llnal, and,
therefore, not appealable.
The libel ill this case is in rein. The
vessel by the decree below is released
from arrest. This in effect terminates
the proceedings against her. Coun
sel upon both sides seem to lie .it one.
that as a practical matter, if this de
cree remains unreversed, nothing else
can be done in the court below which
would be worth doing. The question
whether a decree is llnal and appeal
able is not determined by the name
which the court below gives it. but is
to he decided by the appellate court
on consideration of the essence of what
is done by the decree. I'otter vs. Heal
et a I., ;*<?> Fed.. Still.
" Tin* steamship says that the ques
tion involve I is one of Jurisdiction.
The appeal should, therefore, have been
laken to the Supreme Court
The objection which prevailed in the
court below was not to the Jurisdic
tion of the District Court of the I'nited
States as a Federal court, but was an
objection which went equally to the
jurisdiction of any court. State or Fed
eral, and for that reason the appeal
to this court was properly taken.
CO I" ItT TA K ION I I'
('!>.% Ml or m.Mt XIT\
If. it is asserted that the steamship
is immune to proceedings in any court.
It is admitted that to give this im
munity it will be necessary to take a
step beyond that whicl. has been taken
in any decided case, although it is
arguet' that the logic of some deci
sions ".-h have been made require
that . We are frankly reluctant
to take >. There are many reasons
which suggest the inexpediency and
the impolicy of creating a class of
vessels for which no one is respon
sible in any way For the public
armed ships of a povcreign. and for
those whether armed or not. which are
in the actual possession, custody and
control of the nation itself, and are
operated by it, the nation would he
morally responsible, although without
her consent, not answerable legally in
her own or other courts. For torts
and contracts of an ordinal') vessel It
?iml its? owners are liable. ltut the
ship hi tills case, ami there are now
apparently thousands like it. is oper
ated by its owners, and for its actions
no government is responsible at law
or in morals.
The persons in charge of the navi
gation of the ship remain tin? :ervants
of the ownefs, and are paid by the
j owners. The immunity granted to dip
j lomatic representatives of a sovereignty,
j to its vessels of war. and under some
circumstances to its other property In
"(Continued on Second Pngo.)"
ROUMANIANS LOSE
ON 50-MILE FRONT
IN TRANSYLVANIA
Austro-Hungarian and Ger?
man Troops Turn Against
Invaders.
SUCCESSFUL REPULSE AT
HANDS OF VON FALKENHAYN
Bukharest Admits Withdrawal
Before Attacks by Su
perior Forces.
HKAVY FIGHTING IX DOBRUDJA
lirussilofT Continues Kicrre Drive
Against Approaches to Lem?
berg, Galicia.
LONDON, October fi.?Turniag against
the Roumanians, who had been ad
vancing steadily in Kastern Transyl
vania, Austro-Hungarian and German
troops have defeated the invaders de
cisively along a rtfty-mile front. North
of Kogaras. at t lie Juncture of the
Homorod and Alt Rivers, near Reps,
the Roumanians are in retreat, pursued
by the Teutonic troops.
The successful repulse of the in
vaders on the southern end of the line
was at tlie hands of General von Fal
kenbayn, former chief of the German
general staff, and who only last week
routed the Roumanians around Her
muimstadt and drove them back to
their own frontier. North of Reps, the
Austro-Hungurians recaptured posi
tions and took more than 200 pris
oners. Bukharest admits that the Rou
manian troops in Eastern Transylvania
have been withdrawn before attacks by
superior forces in the region of
Kogaras.
In Pobrudja heavy lighting continues
along the line south of the Constanza
Bukharest River, with Bukharest re
cording progress for the Russians and
Roumanians in the center and on their
left wing.
j iiiiissii.oKr co\ti.\chs
ATTACKS IN GALICIA
While General Brussiloff apparently
has ceased, at least for the moment, his"??"
attacks against the* -Austro-German
lines in Yolhynia, west of Lutsk, he
continues southward his assaults with
groat intensity against the positions of
the Teutonic allies guarding the ap
proaches to Lemberg. capital of Ga
licia. Although the Russian attacks
were held up northeast of Lemberg,
those to the southeast of the capital,
according to Petrograd, resulted In the
takinu of positions south of Brzezany
and the capture of 500 prisoners. Ber
lin. however, declares that all Russian
??ttacks in Galicia have been repulsed,
and that the Austro-German forces
have taken 1.200 prisoners from the
Russians.
In Macedonia the armies of the en
tente allies continue to advance. The
Pritish troops that crossed the Struma
northeast of Saloniki have taken the
towr of Nevolyn, which was evacuated
the defenders. South of Monastir,
Serbia, violent lighting in the region
? ?f t'erna River is reported by Paris.
The artillery continues active on the
Somtne front ia France, according to
the reports from the War Oillces of
all the belligerents.
A delayed report from Constantinople
tells of the rout of Russian troops
northwest ,>f llamadan, Persia.
Tribesmen in Ispahan, says Constan
tinople. have risen in revolt and driven
the Russians from the city. Petrograd,
on the other hand, reports progress
for the Russians west and southwest
of Trebizond. in Armenia.
I It t'SSI A\S MAKI-: 1IIOAOWA Y
ON liAMCIAM KltOMT
PKTROGRAI?. < ?ctober 6 (via Lon
| don ) Russian troops have made head
I wa> on llo iSalician front in their
; campaign for l.etnberg. according to
to-day's war announcement, capturing
A n >t ro-t! ernia u positions in the dis
I trtct south of Rrzestany. southeast of
15. Caiieiun capital. Counterattacks
| arc holding up ili>- Russian offensive
j along tin- line to the north. The of
: llcia I sta lenient reads*
"Western front: In the direction of
I'/.lochotr (forty miles east of "Lemberg),
I in the reuion of 'Peniaki, south of
Brody. (Sukolavc, and Mlynovce. tierce
battles are proceeding. The en?my la
obstinately resisting cur offensive, by
making counterattacks. We took
prisoner fifteen officers. surgeons
and 522 men.
"*ln the region south of Brzezany our
troops captured some enemy positions."
HOI .11A MAN TROOPS
WITH lilt AW I-'IIOM POSITION
Rl'KllA RI-JST, October C (via Lon
don).? Roumanian troops In; witli
I drawn from their positions it. the ro
j gion of Kogaras. Transylvania, before
attacks of superior forces, says the
j otlicial statement issued by the War
j (illlce to-day. Violent engagements
j continue in other sections of Transyl
| vania.
| AltTll.l.KH Y ACTIVITY
O.N TIIK VKItDl'.V FRONT
PARIS, October ?>?The War Ofllce
reports great activity on the part of
artillery on the Verdun front. The
Germans are shelling Poivre hill, east
of tb?* Meuse, am] north of Verdun.
On the Somme front the artillery
| was active during the night.
ni:iti,i.\ admits iturrisii
SICCKSSKS IN MACEDONIA
UKRI,IS. October 5 (via London, Oc
tober. t>).?The War Ortlce report of
to-day concedes that successes have
bet n achieved by the British forces
which crossed the Struma River on th?
Macedonian front. The statement says
the Bulgarians have evacuated remot*
villages on the cast bank pt the river.
