V Rthe fHd account-of todays N MOST of the of
Sport Section of tomorroW a read every mo dfor
jwfl Tapn ea h HE""" ( ILER ALLD n f~dy _
Hera. The best sport writers Othe news of the day and the store
wa describe every play. tedy
NO . 3 641. WEATHER-FAIL WASIMlGTON. D. C.0 SATURDAY. OCTOBEuR 7. 1916. fl%' - fN-'I
ROUMANIANS LOSE
Armies in Transylvanian Alps
Again Defeated.
4By the International News SerVICe.)
LONDON. Oct. 6.-Gen. Falkenhayns
armies, operating on a wide front in the
Transylvanian Alps, have Inflicted an
j other defeat on numerically inferior Ro
manian arnies, according to news reach
ing here.
The Bucharest war offce admits a re
treat in the Fegaras region, but Berlin
hails the action as a "considerable vic
tory." declaring the Roumanians were
driven back across the Alta and Home
rod rivers, leaving behind twenty-eight
field pieces.
Meanwhile, on the Dobrudja front in the
south, the Roumanians, co-operating with
the Russians. have made further progress
against the army under the German Mar
shal von Mackensen. On both the center
and left wing the Austro-Germans havt
been pushed back, according to the
Bucharest report. A statement fvmm
Petrograd reiterates the clm.
Both Berlin and Sona deny a retreat
in this region, claiming that despite heavy
attacks. many of which were delivered at
night, the troops of the central empires
and Bulgaria held their ground.
The Roumanian invasion of Bulgaria is
now completely at an end. Sofia an
nounces, the last Roumanian soldier hav
ing been driven from Bulgarian soil.*
RUSSIANS MAKE FRESH
GAIN TOWARD LEMBERG
Concentrate Blows on Galician Front.
Lull in Volhynia.
London, u. .--A fresh ;ain toward
Lernberg from the southeast is claimed
la the Russians. who have been concen
trating their blow on tht Galician front
for th, Ist twenty-four hours. A tem
torary lulI. due to the utter exhaustion
of both armies. has come in Volhynla
following what belated dispatches de
ric as th nst fritous tattle of the
wa ar
The- newest Russian advance has been
moad, in the Brzezany district, following
r.-atea assaults on the Austro-German
Turkish lines. The gains were held
against determined counter-attacks de
ivered with all the strength of the new
forcs which Von Hindenburg Is report
,I Io have sent to this line.
.'n the front northeast of Lemberg the
Rassians admit that they have been held
in check by the determined resistance of
the Teutons. Heavy counter-attacks
have marked the Austro-German defense
of this front. Berlin announces the re
ise of Russian attacks near Wysocke,
rubte, and ZarkoA.
fiRAND JURY RETURNS
SIX BLACKMAIL 01tlS
Edward R. West's Story of Conspiracy
Causes Indictments.
fBy the International News Serviee.)
New) Yrk. Oct. t-Five men and a
wa iin were indicted by the Federal
o a'ni jury here today in the International
bi akia in; conspiracy, revealed by
wol,:e arrests made in the Tyson
artmntits :n Chicago nearly a month
ao.
Th, indicted are Buda Godman,
knowias as A:ive Williams; Ed Butler.
Iomer French. and James Christian.
T-. , ari m estody. The names of two
"tton i r t, Kpt secret, as they are
T-, thairs are based on the alleged
I-kn.:1n4 .,: E:dward R. West, a cof
fa n' 1h tit with offices in New York
a --- aa-o. The defendants, it is al
llu rsonated government officers
: t mulct West of $15.(0).
\\t testified that Buda Godrman, rep
rettinz h-rself as Alice Williims, a
rsnit cirl, lored him from Chicago to
New Y ork last May. At the Ansonia
Hotel, he said. French and two others,
pong as S-ret Service agents, surprised
thm-,. Threatened with exposure, the
wo1n1 i -ned hysteria, West is said to
have told the jurors, whereupon he yield
ed t., their commands. He and the God
man wotman. accompanied by the black
mijlers. returned to Chicago, where a
settlement was made
The authorities allege that Butler
rlanned the conspiracy and Christian as
sisted in carrying it out.
Butler is nouw serving a prison term at
Atlanta for blackmailing Mrs Regina S.
Klipper, of Philadelphia.
HIS DREAM BLIGHTED OF
WINNING ARMOUR BRIDE
S - *o The a% hingiton Hera .
'hicago. Oct. --The dream of Charles
Nelsen, who saw himself as the husband
of MHss Lo lita Armour, daughter of J.
04den Armour, is dissolved today.
,, Isot attir,-d in a new gray suit and
a r-; n.<ktie. after being refused ad
mittance to the Armnour home on five oc
casions. ws arre -,t. le asserted that
lMiss Arimeur. who had seen him last sum
mert at Lak' Geneva. where he was em
ploetd. hiad -1nt word Fhe wished to meet
hin. He had never spoken to her, but
he ws cont'~lent she loved him, he said.
T;en the ptolice solved the affair. A
rraid haid tt Nelson Miiss Armour was
imptrvssad iby hi,- and he had swallowed
lb- story n, o.0.
Against Irish Conscription,
t.ondon, Oct. 6.-John Redmond. the
Irish nationalist leader, in a speech at
Waterfordl today. saidl conscription for
Ireland would be "the most fatal thing
that could happen."
BUSINESS AD1NOUNCEXEWTS.
CARP'ET AN D Rr4,S CEANED BY
ostaened air, the harmulem .ay. COf
RESSEDM AIR CARPET CLEAN'ING
55. .,2 C s. nw. Shone M. in75
You can get youtr carpets
c'eanted, your tlano tuned, your
stove fixed, walls papered, lock
repsired. furniture stored-in
fact, you can get most anything
done that is to be done around
the house by consulting the
want ads In The Herald, This
little announcement which ap
4 pears today -on page 11 is typI
cal of scores of opportunIties
presented in The Her-ald's clas
READY FOR SERIES
Red Sox and Dodgers Meet ir
First Came Today.
Probable Line-up For
First Game of Series
BOSTON. BROOKLYN.
Hooper, rf. Johnsto. rf.
Janrin, 2b. IDubert. lb.
Shorten, e W. Myec. cf.
HobUtseL, Ib. Wheat, If.
Lewis. If. 'ltsaw b.
Gardner. h. M&wrey, 3b.
Scott, a. Olson, 8
f'arrigan e. Meyers, e.
Cafdy. . 0. Miller, a
Thomak,. N Marquard. p.
L-nead. p. C-mbe, p.
Shatr, p. Pfefe, V.
Ruth. p. Smith. D'
Maya. p. Appleton, p.
Fbter, p.
thaire-Behind bat. Hank O'Da (Na
tional -an); bus. Tom Oemanel,
(Ameian Leaguei, right ek, Enaet Quig
ley (National Leman); left field, Bill Dinm
(American League).
Place-Fenway i'ark, Boson. 31as. Tme
By DAMON RUNYON.
(Internatieal News service.)
Boston, Mass . Oct. 6.--Your Uncl
Wilbert Robinson and his Brookly
Dodgers reached Boston about 7:3
o'clock this evening, and as far a
they are concorned the world serie
may now proceed.
Their train was late; it was a trail
that probably never was a very earl
train at any time in its career. I
moved along with a leisurely air tha
must have been acquired only afte
great practice.
There are train- on the New York
New Haven and Hrtford which hurr
between New York and Boston wit
all the animation of sacred cuyotem
but the sedate train happened to b
the firet one going out when th
CONTN'ED ON PAGEC TEN
LORD CECIL DEFENDS
ALLIED TRADE TREAfl
Says Reciprocal Exchange of Product
Among Entente Powers Is Necessary.
By W. ORTON TEWSON.
(Internatiemal News Service.)
London, Oct. f.-Lord Robert Cecil
minister of war trade and blockade, to
day commented on articles appearing It
United States newspapers regarding the
effects of the allied economic conference
at Paris.
"My attention has been drawn to on<
of many articles appearing in the Ameri
can press regarding the effect of the
commercial measures contemplated b:
the Paris Economic Conference," said
Lord Robert. "In the article, which I
taken as typical, two provisions are
quoted, the first from 'transitory mea
asures' and the second from 'permanen
measures' to the effect that the allie.
will preserve their national resource
during the reconstruction for each othe
in preference to outside parties and wil
permanently facilitate a reciprocal ex
change of products among themseives.
"The article says that if these mea
sures are carried out they will pre
manently discriminate against all non
allied trade and either force the United
States Into preferential trade relation
with Germany or into trouble with Grea
Britain.
"All these forecasts are examples o
the inveterate tendency to draw oui
curious implications from the perfectl:
simple provisions of the agreement. re
garding the preservation of natural re
sources during reconstruction.
"It amounts to a provision that those
among the allies who have suffered mos
from the war will have the first cal
on the resources of those who ar.
wealthiest and have suffered the least."
SKIRTS SHIELD $2,000
FROM HOLD-UP MEB
Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 6.-Two mask
ed negroes late this afternoon entere'
the oflices of the Standard Brass aq
Manufacturing Company and at th
point of revolvers demanded that Sec
retary A. J. Bloom produce a satche
containing the weekly payroll, amount
Ing to $2,00n.
Katherine Kane. the stenographei
Ishielded the satchel with her skirt
while one of the negroes rifled th
safe snd took between $100 and $20(
As the robbers left the place the
encountered a patrolman, who opene
fire, shooting one of them, who fell t
the ground. but who wa, picked ul
by his companion and a third mar
waiting outside. They then mad
their escape.
TYPIST SMOTHERS BABE;
THEN TAKES DICTATOIf
(By the International News service
Madison, Wis.. Oct. 6.-How she ha,
smothered the baby she loved by holdin,
her hand over his mouth, then hiding th
body In her room for a week while sh.
went about her daily work as a stenog
repher, was told today by Miss Itelei
Griep, who is, held on a charge of firs
0. ree murder.
"God. how r loved tmy boy.' she moan
ed. "After I had killed him because
knew his presence would bring sham.
and disgrace to me, I could not say good
bye, even to his little body, and I hid I
in my room where I could look at bin
when I c;"nmo vm fr'm work."
ifter J. Burch. ion of her employet
has been: wa. " . M.., iss triep's ac
cuseation.
$11 FLOUR PROSPECT
SIGHTED BY MII1ERf
Specia ts The Was hiton Herald.
Chicago, Oct. 6.--Another increase ii
the price of flour is predicted. An upwar,
trend also is noticed in the price of sugsi
Milling authorities say that if whea
touchec S. as many expect, the price o
flour may go to $11 a barrel.
"Flour Is 39.30 today, an increase o
20 cents a barrel in the last day or two,'
said a representative of the Pllsbur:
Flour Mills Company. "The price whticl
prevailed a year ago was $55. The prio~
was $6.10 when the European war etad
In .Tanuarv, 1n7. It wa. M rJa*
RAPS U.S. AIRMEN
Aero Club President Scores
Deficiencies.
In a recent letter to the Beroetary of
War, Alan R. Hawley, president of the
Aero Club of America, states that the
aviation section of the United states
army does not want an Increase of
American aviators, nor for the National
Guard to have training In this branch of
work, and he adds that the plans to or
ganize the Aerial Reserve Corps, author
ized by President Wilson last July, have
not been carried out.
Mr. Hawley also alleges that the only
aero squadron now in service is one only
suited to meet an emergency and that
instead of establishing ten aviation
schools, which are needed, we are only
planning for three.
"We have but half a dozen instructors."
says President Hawley, "when there Is
need for sixty, and the corps of inspec
tors are ignorant of the first principles
of aeronautics. These conditions have
disgusted hundreds of workers and volun
teers for the national defense and dissi
years' work.
Although the army has .13,2I.6W6 to
spend in aeronautics, there are no im
Imediate prospects of its getting a sub
stantial air service."
In conclusion Mr. Hawley says:
"The country is tired of vague rumors
land promises-It now demands evidence
of action. We are asked many times
daily what there is being done to train
1,00) aviators. Half a dozen countries
have each between 2.0 and 6,000 aviators.
and the increasig; efficiency of aircraft
and expansion of aerial operations make
the country realize the danger of aerial
unpreparedness.
t What can we nnswer to the many peo
pie who inquire daily whether steps have
r been taken to begin training the 1,000
aviators?"
ILSON SIGiHTS GOOD
OMEN IN RECEPTION
Ovations Received on Western Trip
Most Encouraging.
I By the International News Service.)
Crestine. Ohio, Oct. 6.-President Wil
son will reach Shadow Lawn tomorrow
morning at 10 o'clock. During the aft
ernoon he w1ll receiv and make a speech
to the Woodrow Wilson Independent
League. Hugh Gordon Miller, of New
York, is also expeced to be on hand
with a body of Progressives.
The President has accepted the ovation
received on this Western trip, which
carried him to Omaha as most encourag
dg. At Chicago this morning, Gov.
Iunne, of Illinois, told Mr. Wilson
he would get the electoral vote of that
State, notwithstanding the Republican
strength in that part of the country.
Senator Walsh, of Montana, who is in
charge of Western campaign matters.
also made a favorable report.
Mr. Wilson did not leave his private
car while in Chicago and there was no
demonstration. lie came to the rear
platform and shook hands with a number
of railroad employes and posed with Mrs.
Wilson for the newspaper photograph
era. There were no crowds along the
route through Indiana and Ohio by which
the return is being made, as only a few
stops were scheduled.
STEAMSHIP FIRM PROSPERS.
Receiver for Interational Mer
cantile Marine Discharged.
New York, Oct. 6.-The last obstacle to
reorganization of the International Mcr
cantile Marine Company was swept away
today by Judge Hough in the Federal
Court in discharging P. A. S. Franklin
as receiver. The huge steamship corpor
ation, In which J. P. Morgan is interested,
it now said to be in prosperous condi
tion.
I'. A. S. Franklin, though an oMeer of
the corporation. was chosen receiver by
unanimous request of all parties involved
in the concern in April last year. In dis
charging him from the position, Judge
Hogh fixed Mr. Franklin's compensation
at $163,"0.
KEROSINE AUTO BLOWS UP.
In'entor Thought It Success After
Two Years of Work.
WVhitesville, Del., Oct. C.-After working
two years on an automobile of his own
Invention which would hurn kerosine oil
Instead of gasoline, Wilbur Willetts. of
Broad Creek, saw his pet go up in smoke,
hardly nye minutes after he had demon
strated to himself that the Invention was
a success.
Willetts, with only his own workshop.
managed to turn out a very creditable
looking automobile, the principal part
of which was its ability to run 100 miles
on about 10 cents worth of kerosine oil.
Willetts get the machine out and had
run about live miles from home when a
suiden blaze jumped up and in a mo
ment his machine was on fire.
lie declares that he has discovered the
right thing and that he will build an
other machine at once.
HIGH PRICES HIT BROADWAY.
I Tangoists of the Dasaling Lobster
Palaces Will Need More Coin.
New York. Oct. 6.-War prices for food
have struck Broadway.
Not only must the patrons of small
restauratnts dig deeper to pay his meal
check, but the stage door Johnnies and
the tangoists of the bright-light lobster
palaces have also been hit-and hard.
Poultry, pastry, and practically all
other kinds of foodstuff have taken a rise.
"I didn't know they made amusement
for the allies out of lobsters. but some
thing about the war is making them go
up,'' said one chorus girl today.
PRIEST DEAD IN POND.
Body of Clergymnau Femnd in Swim
ming Role.
North Easton. Mass., Oct. 6.--The body
of Rev. Stephent MacGill, curate of the
Church' of the Immaculate Conception,
of this town, was found today In what
is known as Hoe Shop Pond, which Is
used as a swimming pool by men and
.'boys.
His clothing was found on the bank.
There were no marks of violence on the
body. It is believed that Father MacGill
went in for a swim and was seized with
cramps when in the water,
51.06 te Harpers Ferry, S1.25 Winehes-.
ter and, return. Baltimore and Ohio
from Union StatIon. V:00 a. W Undaj'
October 5.--AdV
German Pren Clamors
For New Submarine War
London, Oct. 6.-The agitation in
Germany for a renewal of drastic
submarine warfare is daily grow
Ing stronger, says an Exchange
Telegraph dispatch from Copen
hagen this afternoon.
It adds that the papers are de
manding that Germany ignore the
United States, cailing that country
"an enemy of Germany."
Telegraph Tip
Rutland, Ill., Oct. 6.-Yeggmen blew the
safe of the State Bank here early today
and escaped with $6,000.
Wilmington. Del., Oct. 6.-One man was
Injured, scores were cut and bruised and
many escaped death by jumping, in a
rear-end collision early today in a bemvy
fog between two trolley cars Mfiled with
f"wder workers.
Gooseville. N. H., Oct. 6.-Fire destroy
ed the three-story wooden factory of the
Farmer Narrow Fabric Company here
today, causing $100.000 loss. The company
made looms.
London. Oct. 6.-Lord Rothermore,
brother of Lord Northcliiffe, and himself
a noted publisher, has been appointed
director general of army clothing, ac
cording to announcement by the war office
today.
Reading, Pa., Oct. 6.-Assertng that
Cecilia Boaman, a friend of her husband,
Floyd Yeager, stole his affections at a
dance that Yeager and his wife attended,
and that Miss Boaman took Yeager to
her home after the dance. Mrs. Yeager
today sued the other woman for SI,m0
damages for the alienation of affections.
The Yeagers have one child.
Mount Jewett. Pa.. Oct. 6.-The strik
ing of an oil gusher flowing at a rate of
approximately 50 barrels a day has
caused considerable excitement in Mount
tewett and surrounding towns.
Bainbridge, Ga., Oct. 6.-A strange an
nual phenomenon is taking place in the
waters of the Flint River here. Fisher
men report that the eels are now be
ginning their annual pilgrimage to the
waters of the Gulf. where they will
I spawn during the winter.
Philadelphia. Oct. 6.-The new Swedish
steamship \iken. which arrived here yes
terday on her maiden voyage from Goth
enburg. carried in her hold 5.632 cases of
safety matches-her entire cargo. She is
owned by the Sweden-Norway Line and
is of 1M0 tons register.
Hattiesburg. Miss.. Oct. C6-George R.
Wright, capitalist, has taken preliminary
steps looking to the location of a million
dollar paper mill here. Native woods
will be used and It is believed printL- er
can be produced that will equal Any
ainade.
Pittsburgh, Oct. 6.-Rush orders have
been placed here for steel for a new span
in the Queber bridge to replace the one
which recently fell into the St. Lawrence
River. The Dominion Iridge Company
has placed a contract with the American
Bridge Coipany to fabricate the new
span, and the Carnegie Steel Company
will roll ,Nw tons of steel shapes and
beams at it:- Homestead plant.
St. Paul, Oct. 6.-Buying rotten eggs at
tile dump for half cent a dozen. Isadore
Mensellsohn kept a few chickens for a
"come along" and advertised "strictly
fresh eggs 45 cents a dozen." He was
arrested, pleaded guilty and was fined.
Chester. Pa.. Oct. C-Miss Elizabeth
Leggett, daughter of Mrs. Eliza Leggett,
of this city, left today for Seattle, Wash..
where she will become the bride of a man
she has seen only once. She met him
three years ago while on a visit to Se
attle.
liddleton, N. Y.. Oct. 6.-Straw hats
and linen suits reappeared when the
mercury climbed to F8 degrees in Orange
County.
Keyport, N. J., Oct. 6.-Mrs. '.. Mal
nati. her two sons, Ernest. 20 years old.
and Eugene. 18, residents of Keansburg,
were instantly killed yesterday when a
train on the New Jersey Southern Rail
road struck their automobile at a cross
ing near here. The automobile party
was on its way from Keyport to Keans
burg.
New York. Oct. 6.-Estimating that he
lost 310,000 because the New York Tel
ephone Company failed to put his name
In one of its directories, Dr. J. H. Cla
borne has sued for that amount.
St. Louis, Oct. 6.-Right Rev. Daniel
Sylvester Tuttle. presiding bishop of-the
Protestant Episcopal Church, today cele
brated the fiftieth anniversary of his
election as tishop. The Episcopal clergy
of St. Iouis, gave a luncheon in his
honor. He will he %) years old on Jan
uary 26.
Vienna (via. London). Oct 6C-The bread
and potato shortage in Vienna. which
was acute weeks ago, has been relieved.
The government now is taking measures
to improse the distribution of food. so
that waiting in line hereafter vill be
unnecessary.
'Tenton, N. J., Oct. 6.-A jury in the
Federil Court here awarded $20,00 dam
ages to Daisy James, a former New York
Winter Garden dancer, against the Del
aware. Lackawanna and Western Rail
road for the loss of her feet irna grade
crossing accident at East Orange.
New York,. Oct. 6.-The Associated Con'
fectioners of the United States baa set
apart October 14, it was announced today,
as "Candy Day" throughout the nation,
Every one will be expected on that day
to buy, eat, and give away candy.
Berlin, Oct. 6.-Dr. Emil Deckert, pro
fessor of geography in the new Univer
sity of Frankfort. is dead, He spent many
years traveling in the United States.
His book "Nord Amerika" gives the most
complete description of the United States
in the German language.
Boston. Oct. 6.-Mrs. Henry Payne
Whitney. of New York. who designed the
Titanic Memorial which Is to be set up
in WVashington, has inspected the carv
ing of the statue at the Horrigan shops,
at Quincy, and formally accepted it.
Work will be started ,tonce to prepare
the .huge pieces for t
Riverside. Cal., ~-An action, the
first of its kind, to esat the home of
Yukiehi Haraday. a Japanese, begun with
thme intent to test the constitutionaHty of
the California anti-allen land ownership
law of 191L. has been ild lhere by' Rob
met IL Clarke. assistant attorney gen.ral.
WILSON ASSAILED
Senator Fall Flays President
for Mexican Policy.
(my the Internatioaal News SerieM.)
New York, Oct. 6.-The "truth about
Mexico" was given tonight in a Republi
can campaign speech made by United
States Senator Albert B. Fall. of New
Mexico. Before a gathering in Common
wealth Auditorium he bitterly assailed
President Wilson for his policy in the
revolution-torn republic.
Senator Fall vividly descrihed terrible
conditions now existing in Mexico. He
read several heretofore unpublished docu
ments and indicted the administration on
all sides for its inaction.
Senator Fall replied to President Wil
son's charges that American citizens with
large Interests in Mexico are trying to
force Intervention to protect or enhance
their holding&.
"The only possible enhancement of
value would be by annexation of Mexico
Ito the United States," he said. "and I
1have heard nobody interested in Mexico
demand annexation of that country or
any portion of it.
'lEvery American who really knows
anything of the true conditions in Mexico
knows that Carranza's absolutism, de
s;-ite Wilson's suport, is tottering to a
fall
"very such American. or other person
unoderstanding the true conditions in
Mexico, believes that the only object in
the minds of some of the directing forces
behind the so-called 'mediation' is and
will be a 'stall' until after election on
November 7."
EiNT PROGRESSIVES
AS HUGHES ELECTORS
New York State Republicans Slate
Moose Representatives.
(By the Internatienal News Servie4%
New York, Oct. 6-State Progressives
won a representation of eight electors on
the New York State RepublIcan elec
toral slate today. The Republican State
committee ratified this compromise late
today.
Names of the Progressive electors and
the districts thcy will represent are:
William Hamlin Childs. Seventh district;
Oscar S. Straus. Twentieth; Henry 1.
Stoddard, -ileventh; Ernest Cawcroft.
Third; Walter A. Johnston. Twelfth;
Judge William 1. Ransome. Eighteenth;
]Beveridge C. Dunlop, Sixteenth, and John
Gerdes. Eighth.
The appointment of eight Progressives
is a distinct victory for George W. Per
kins and Governor Whitman.
Chairman Willcox. of the Republican
National Committee, probably will de
cide .whether the Progressive State Com
tmittee shall be called together to endorse
tbhe lolrt electoral slate.
This can he done by a vote of 3 to
hut Progressives fear that a radical
niinorlty may make so much trouble that
i: would be inadtvisable. The matter will
Ie settled before tictoher 13.
In the event of endorsement of the joint
electoral ticket b the Progressive State
Committee, a Bull Moose column will be
incorporated in the National ballot in
New York State.
CATCH MAN AND GIRL
WHO FLED FROM JAIL
S ma 1,, Th. % shington H ald.
P1unlxsu.tawAney, Oct. 6.-George Graham,
3 years old. and Rose Styers, 15. are
ba-k in the local jail, after havingwan
dored i th, nsoods iv miles north of
town all Wedn, day night and up until a
0'lock yesterday aft,-rnoon. following an
attack by Graham ipon Andrew Neal.
the aged wardn o! the borough lock-up.
Without hat or ehes, his shirt smear
ed with blooi. ;r-aami was arrested by
John Straltit. a farmcr. of McCalmont
towthip. half :n hour aft-r the girl had
been caught.
Grahamnt' attak ot Ncal and hi:= sub
sequent escape with the girl. had aroused
the entire neighhotrhood, and throughout
the night and ill day long posses search
e d the woods. Graham and the girl had
been nrrested h: Chief of Police Palmer.
of Punxsutaw n -harged with compilc
ity in a store rob'bery. Owing to Lt,
youth of the pa'r. War'en Neal gave
them the freedom of the jail corridor.
EUTERFLIES IN MIGRATION'
Swarms Making Way Southward
Been In South Carolina.
Greenville. R. C.. Oct. 6.-Great
swarms of butterflies have been Feei
passing through and over Greenville.
making their way southward.
Entomologists say that the butterfly
commonly known as the "milkweed"
butterfly. native to tne United States.
often migrates. It was probably this
variety of the insect that passed here.
bound from the inhospitable climate
of the North to some balmier plare.
Stich migrations are sometimes
caused by the lack of food plants
upon which the insects may deposit
their eggs; while at other times the
trip South is undertaken merely in
search of warmer weather. In the
tropics migrationS of butterflies are
often encountered.
DYNAMITE WRECKS CAR.
Atlanta Cas' strike symipathises
Blasmed for Blast.
Atlanta, Ga.. Oict. C-Passengers and
the crew of a Woodward avenue car had
a mIraculous escape early today when
the car was wrecked by dynamite, be
lIeved to have been placed on the tracks
by sympathizers of striking carmen.
The windows of the ears were shattered
and the heavy rails broken in several
places, but no one was Injured.
WEST VIRGINqIANS ELECT.
State Seeiety Makes Harry S. Baker
Its President.
Members of the West Virginia Society
of Washington last nIght at the New
Ebbitt Hotel elected these officers:
Harry S. Baker, president; Gen. W. W.
Scott, Charles H. Knott, E. T. Morgan.
F. F. Stone, Capt. H. C. Duncan and
Oscar A. Price. vice presidents; C. H.
IMcGinnis, recording secretary; W. T.
George. corresponding secretary; Mrs.
Todd C. Sharp, financial secretary; Col.
William deGrange, treasurer, and Mrs.
George W. Atkinson. historian.
Quickest Serice to Baltimerk
Every Hour on the Honr. Baltimore
and Ohio. $L.73 round trip. Saturdays
and annamew ..A(" -
KIDNAPPED; FLEES
Son of Wealthy Man Escapes
from Captors After Battle.
(My the Imteruatioual News Serviee.)
Denver, Colo.. Oct. 4.-A sensational
and mysterious case of kidnapping was
revealed late this afternoon through the
startling report that Robyn Matson
Perry. son of Samuel M. Perty, president;
of the Moffat Coal Company, and one
of the wealthiest and most prominent
men of Denver, had been held for ran
som on a lonely ranch near Oak Creek.
Colorado, and that the young man had
killed one of his kidnappers in a desper
ate fight that followed two days'
captivity.
Young Perry's present whereabuts are
unknown, and posses are scouring the
hill country between Yampa and Oak
Creek seeking him and trailing the one
living kidnapper.
It Is possible that Perry may still be
held against his will somewhere in the
hills. Late this afternoon a mysterious
garbled telephone call from him was
received in Tampa in which the young
man stated/ that he was "all right."
that he was on a ranch, just where he
could not tel, and that one of the men
who kidnapped him "would never get
up again.'
All efforts of the telephone company
failed to locate the source of the tele
phone message.
Fifteen thousand dollars had been de
manded by Perry's captors as the price
of his release. according to a letter
written by young Perry himself and
ret-eved by his fathtr here last night.
The letter stated that the writer had
been "kidnapped by armed men and
that he was being forced to make this
demand for $15.W) under penalty of
death.
Perry senior was ordered to bring the
money on horseback to a spot between
Yampa and Oak Creek and come alone.
NEUTRALITY UNBROKEN
BY AMERICAN AVIATORS
Department Decides that Participants
Forfeit Allegiance to U. S.
The United States will take no action as
a result of complaints from Germany
that American aviators are at the front
with the French flying corps The reecrt
killing under spectacular circumstances
of tAo American aviators and the sound
ing of several others brought forcibly
to the world's attention the great service
which Americans have been rendering
to the allied cuse.
These protests will be the subject of
full discussion when Anbaseador Gerard.
now en route from Berlin, reaches Wash
ington But officials declared today that
exhaustive consideration of all complaints
from the central powers has convinced
them that American aviators hAve kept;
within the boesaf ef interna-I
W88 law. Every Atmierem who has
serg with the allies, it 12 explained.
haa left the United States voluntarily. as
a private cItizen, and has erlisted or
received his commission on foreign -oll.
To date no American aviator has been
captured by the enemi t of the alles
Should such a contingency arise. the
prisoner would be dealt with according
to German military law and the United
States would be powerless to interpose
BRITISH VESSEL SUNK
WHEN SHIPS COLLIDE
(By the International News Nervice.I
N':A.\.,, ()t, (-A Brittl.f'i
ste - d-at 'unk and the Ba r
stean:ip 1t' of Ba'timore was -c c,
danmg'd thit she was forced to ret Trn
to her ei r hre toni::ht when the w -
vessels cl ided in tlp fog off Si- ews
Point, just northof Norfolk, late th:' aft
ernoon.
The City of Baltimore -as laden with
tassenigers for 01d Pomt Comfort and
Haltimo;. . -c es tied !,, the Chesa
pea-, Steamship Ctipany.
VILLA SOON TO MARCH
ON CHIHUAHUA CITY
tBy the International News %ervlce.)
Chihuahua City. Mexico. Oct 6 -Pan
cho Villa arned Chihuahua City today
that it could expect an attack from his
forces soon. probably next Sqnday The
warning was received from Biis!illo.
where the bandit chief bas bteen makin;
his headquarters the past few das r
truiting his forces rapidl en prom"-.s
to share the loot of the capital when iI
taken.
As a result of ti:- narning. the carr
son here Is hir, c-nthened, as are
~ Parral and Torreon.
Villa has t-rn , It . roed tracks
tt w een Jiminez an 7 rr-n.
NEW YORK BANKERS MAY
LEND DUBLIN $5,000,000
liy the Internatienni News Service.)
Dublin, Oct 6 -Great interest is mant
fested here in the announcement that
Duhin's housing prohlem may b solved
thtough the help of an American loan
It betame known this trtning that the
National 'ity P'nk. of New York, has
offered 1.00.0 pounds (33.0M.W at 5 1-2
per cent.
The housing committee of Dublin cor
porations recommends the acceptance of
the offer. The amount is to cover the
cost of a scheme for the workers' dwell
ings.
PRICE OP SHINES GOES UP,
Bootbiack Sure that ConflIet Did it,
but Doesn't Know Why.
PhiladEtphIa, Oct. 6-And now the price
of a gblne has gone up.
Newdy painted signs In sofne' of~ the
shoe-lishing emporiums in the center
of the ctty read: "Hereafter price of
shining ali russet shoe. will be 10 cets;
scrubbed. 1S eents."
A reporter inquired the cause of the
advance.
"War. T guess," replied the knight of
the brush.
"What the --! What has the war got
to do with it?" demanded the reporter.
"Don't know," was all the satIsfaction
he got.
Cus~dent that there was no scarcity of
so, polIsh, the reporter could only con
chide that shIne prices have gone up in
sympathy with everythIng else on the
smarket.
Sunday Outing to Laurey and Retusrn.
S'.9f. Baltimore and Ohio, S:15 a. in..
Sa , c. S. et.r---n- --n e
GERARD BRINGING
PEACE PROPOSAL
Prominent Financier Says Kai
ser Is Sending Letter.
I By the loternatlensl %es h ervied.
New York. ct G -j n. president o one
'f the larges: in. ttutions in the tnancial
district said today that Germany had
"aked Ambassador Gerard to present a
letter to President Wilson asking his
good offices in bringing about peace
He further stated that the Ambassador
iF now the bearer of this letter and wouI
rrement it to the President immediatel
upon his arrival here, Mr Gerard 4P a
passenger on the Frederick VIII. whicli
is due Tuesday.
Questioned as to the source of his in
formation, the financier said:
"I would not maka this statement if I
were not absolutely sure of my facts.
The news has come to me from the moat
authoritative sources imaginable. I know
that Germany has requested the Preal
dent to act. I know that the Ambuasado
!C hearing Germans s overtures Thet is
ill I can xa% for the present '
The standinx of the financier : So un
m; eachaile and is w'urrec o w . ao5
ruthoritative tha-t Wall Street < -dir-d
h, statement without queAi .n Immed,
itety there was a sharp break :n the
'o-called war stocks
The statenent ca use! a terr-ndous
-tir. It engag-d the altt, r,-n. not aloi.e
:f the financial diltrict. e ! < r ,g bus
-"s men in all ra-t ' Ih. :
Wihin an hour after the to I! cment v S
scued official Wai*ngton took heed of
I Denials were tcc he expt.ted ti,
sl.ence of any offl: ca.oca: -.
hat could 1e made 1 .. d --
Aere Insta",ty forthcoingrlK
But in spite of F r-, 1m ;
ne "tatemten: ceu.,m-- .,,-r
red ted
Particular Sigr:fencn - becamne to ba
ached to the otories enirating to,
LVashingtcn onl, the n - fr-.-e to t!
rffect that no pcace proposals aere in
-ontempllation by the governmer:
BELIEVED HERE iERARD
WILLDISCUSS PEACE
3fficials Profess, However. No Knowl
edge of Rumored Proposal.
Informal stalements by iglh . c -nat
)fticials warrant the assertion tha: Amr
Dassador Gerard. upon his arrival In
his country will discuss ath Prestde I
Wilson the outlook for peace In Euror
As to fust what proposals Mr Grea- d
has in mine and what documents. If an '.
be is bringig w'th him. officials at the
ltate Departmntt profess to have no
knowledges
The report emanating from W"a: Sirest
sources that Mr. Gerard Is bringing en
IPlplcation from Germany Mnr !I.e Iree.
dent to use his good o'"ices m c.c
peaC I q diForepted h ' a. 'he S:R
rDeartme t and at the Ge-mon E 0,
Ac!ocg Secretary io "ste Pel1
V.-d- not know ar:t iT.ng c.'h( c, e
sage wh:ch is alsged Amirnec,
Gerard Is hri-ring and whIch t t s--c-3
he le t. present to Prso. J"',
NAME OF LOCAL liRL
IN BANDIT'S NOTEBOOK
%s5 Maud Wikon M1-n oned r Au
tolst's LAst.
Chicago ict 9 -Police hee Art TI--c
toCI- t- learn ahy Herm-n Hettw- c. -
[ege~d auto' handi. wAno <mfe- ;
cherzes "nd recapturc : esemi
mr.tht' of Ii .rtc tolone 5 rrmg - -l
cre had the nir-c -' - wrer.
different cities of the ,-nlrr - tten im a
ne book
HIltt-er .used in tell aId t-e :r
are heinz kent husy In er if-tt era
rc:t The fug:ltve wao ar-es'od in a c,'
hy Policeman Winard The l-o1 -f women
inl, dudes .
Miss Geraldne ,ardner. (lubtus
Clhico:lu Mise znceth M.ay. Racsine. \\ te
M'ce rtahr! Gur1, Ontarlo Falls. M
Maud I\Ts-n. Washington D. C .,
1 ta rnd Mornsvt'e. N T
TIN FROM SALMON CAN
CAUSES WOMAN'S DEATH
Philade.phia 1 1t ' -T , 1C , c - he
throat of Mil Theresa \\ alther , I
ow Grove. sever 'S na ,: S ca-'
piece of lit' c ira d-ah iSC
Luk- I otnal .- I. I .- pea-I
Itrs Walthcr nac ating salrne- c
her home on Septenber 2 ahen ,ve
felt someth1:n: a har throe.
She tried to diclodgze the tin 1:11h
home remedies for the first two days
It annoyed, bt did not hurt her. Her
threat begat: to swe:l later, however.
and she was taken to St Luke's Hot
pital. where physicians located the tin
by means "f an X-ray, but were unable
to get it out.
DR. R. L. HUNT NEAR DEATH.
C'omditiom of Infantile Paralysis
Fighter Geows Wee.
Dr. Rtocser L. Hunt. so ho fell a virtim
to infatntile paralysis while fighting that
disease a~s an inspector of the Health
Department,. is in a critically dangerouc
condition, according to a statement made
late last night by Dlr. C. M. Bleall, who is
attending him
The disease has arresad to. Dr. Hunt's
arms arid neck. He is now all but totahiy
paralyaed. Physicians who have been
watching the case entietain little hope of
his recovery.
DECLINES $100,000 GUIT.
Wttee Refuses Legmay Left by Unene.
Says Aunt Deserve, Koey.
San FrancIsco. Oct. f-Convinced that
William B. McGerry, her uncle, acted an
justly in leaving his 1100.03 fortune te her
and cutting off his wife and 7-yeard
'laughter, Miss Aum Mallen. 19, will
waive her claim, she said today.
N1one of McGcrrys relatives ever heard
of any marltai discord and he apparently
was on the best of terms 4lth his fatally.
6 the meawhile the widow anid her
tclMd the niece, and a brother aat sitear
of Nc~erry are still living 6 t
hie Ia srgeet , ; s.I
