NIGHT
EXTRA
netting
o : A
NIGHf
EXTRA
V
L,-,i
m.-No. 21
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1910
CorttonT, lei, imirnuo Lwih Cexriirf
PIIIOE ONE CENT
BEAT THRONGS GATHER
TO WITNESS FIRST GAME
WDS CLAMOR WILDLY FOR
GETS TO OPENING GAME OF
WORLD'S SERIES CLASSIC
iusiastic Fans in Mad Scramble for
ious Pasteboards 45,000 in the
(Stands Before Start of Game.
Speculators Reap. Harvest
By CHANDLER D. IUCHTER
rrvN Mass.. Oct. 7. Long bcforo tho hour act for tho beginning of
kuball classic between the Boston Red Sox and Brooklyn Dodgers
?J diamond-mad citizens thronged tho downtown section of the Hub in
ible to board suriaco ana BUDway cars lor uraves r icia. ja iar out
n and Maine .Railroad tracks tho street corners and subway stations
wealth avenue woto crowded With eager fans, who wcro striving to
t ticket windows, whero few, precious pasteboards wins to bo had at
tae.
i i crowd at 11 o'clock around Braves Field resembled tho motley hoi pollol
Dews a circus, venders or uaa 100a ana pin icmonaao raxea in smaii
. hundreds of boys were on tho job trying to take chargo of tho
t automobils that Aerc parked in every vacant spot within half a mile
paying neiu
PROBABLE HURLERS IN FIRST GAME
bear that approached Braves' Field
fb osota to the thousands who wero
httrtTlne to gain a position of vantage
Ffte windows from which tho tickets
F earchaied. It was apparent eariy
ii'WralnK that only thosei who had
tttece 7 o'clock would navo a cnance
r the tickets. The result was that
tors, although closely watchRl by
t reaped a harvest from their 11-
i speculations.
of the hotels, too, speculators
r ticket agents disposed of many
yjiaVU at advanced prices.
kfce announcement that the prooaDie
reuld be Leonard and Marquard
rodds shifted from 10 to 7 to 5 to
i fans were surprised when Rob-
ntly said that the former Giant
would win Brooklyn's first game,
of who hurled for poston, ana
gh. Carrlgan Is In a quandary.
"Babe" Ruth warmed up In won-
le, while "Dutch" Leonard ap-
i slightly off form, and Instead
gueror of- tho Phillies being cer-
f.the series, Carrlgan la think-
' of snitching to Ruth.
i Carrlgan's, position. Ho naturally
I to start Ruth because, despite his
i, natural ability, the giant south-
t a brainy pitcher and Is a rather
If Carrlgan felt certain that
fkeep his head nnd'nerve In the
i of the series he would not hesl-
.hlm to the mound with Leon-
l reserve for Monday,
tit ttuh's southpaw slants, with tho
breaks he can put on the ball,
MiMred by the Dodgers, Carrlgan
. Leonard also will be bumped by
League champions. As the
; are depending upon southpaws to
. least .two of the victories. Carol-
werrylng about the condition of
RWt-handers. Ho would much
rt the reliable Leonard, .but If
Fsnot ,show more "stuff" than he
ay he would surely be beaten.
ard la selected to pitch today
rWten It Is virtually certain that
I not be given a chance to face the
ik pitching burden being placed
I Hays and Ernie Shore, aa George
If, In poor shape. Foster has not
'almost a month- and failed to
form, which means that the
4MH will not be available for Car-
Ma the series.
r.,Htrans of the American League
Carrlgan not to start a
aialnii Brooklyn unless Leon-
shape! as they contend that the
tare not so weak against portslders
Hi would have him .believe.
iywe think Leonard and Maya .are
Best bets, but it Is barely dos-
nl Shore la in better, ahane
' law believe.
Who ODeneit thA lain ...I..
' the PhllllAB. hRfl tu,n .hAl.
'snn, and Carrlgan han been
' 1ng that he did not conaldur
"t enough to start the series.
HL- rm"bered, however, that
?i25 " more than two runs
i2r 7i P,Iot can st assured
(warn will win the series if they
NOTABLES ARRIVE
EARLY ON SCENE
OF BIG SERIES
Rumor Gives Opening Clash
to Dodgers If 'JRube"
Marquard Hurls
MAGEE GIVES THE "DOPE"
f iltsssBr 4 N 'fe S
W
sssss SSSSB .
vc2o Jv. sssWslllllllllllllllBWsTi
KH po
i
vecording to the latest nnd most
authentic dope, Rubo Marauard,
of Brooklyn, wag selected by Rob
inson to hurl against Dutch
Leonard in tho opening game of
the world's series at Boston. These
pitchers uro shown above, Mar
quard in strenuous action.
lyetUtwd
a Tate Two, Column Three
Line-up for
ftrtt Blue Ribbon Game
4
JKLYN
mi. rf. ,
-,lb;
tf.
. .
w,2b.
rsb.
BOSTON
Hooper, rf .
Barry, ab.
Walker, of.
Hoblitwll.lb,
LwU, If,
Gardner, -t.
Scott, a.
Carrijfn, e.
1 Leonard, b.'
. . f!annAlf&, Ajla-H
h WiindlB, frXZTO'fiS
Maunui i . rtn iha t a na
.3TT" y "".."
jnjwrican
ry (Ni
sOB
V. ti
Lu),
By TAD
BOSTONV Oct 7. It's a p"lp pf a day.
The sun is out and there's Just1 touch of
the old frappe In the air.
Tho Ninth Regiment Band, which Is
carded to escort tho Red Box into, Braves'
Field later on today, woke mo up this'
morning practicing that well-worn and
well-loved tune, "Teesle."
I sneaked down the bacc way to the
Held hero and ran Into Drum Major Cough-
lln practicing like a wolf with his baton.
He tosses the old stick In front of the band
and Is working out great.
Babe Ruth and a bunch of the Sox Just
arrived at tho grounds In Babe's nivvec
Babe is a hound At the wheel.
There's an awful mob at the bleachers
gato now and quite a crowd easing In al
ready. The bleachers will be packed in
half an hour.
Th thrre-dollir seats have been gone
for two days. President Lannln offerM
ten dollars for every1 nine' dollar ticket
returned to htm and guarantees to sell it
immediately at the ticket window for nine
berries. They expect 45,000 people at the
quarrel today, but could have sold 76,000
tickets if the fences had been further
apart.
They look upon you as a simp if you
say Brooklyn up here. Every one you ask
about the game puts his mitt to his face,
covering his smile, and says, "Ruth, Leon
ard, Mays ha, ha, ha: good-by."
Jack Doyle, the golf pool king, Just blew
in, looking for a seat. Jack is nil dolled up
In brown and is betting on. the Sox. He
says that Brooklyn excels In one position
only first base.
Lee Magee is sitting back of me. He's
wearing a big overcoat Lea Just talked
with Mike Mowrey, third sacker of the
Dodgers. Mike wanted Iiee to tell him what
he thought- "I told hira," chirped Lee, "that
his mob will face considerable Dingers and
that If they hit tho ball when they are
supposed to that it would be all over. See
that center-Held fencoT" asked Lee. "It's a
mile from the plate, you know, but If the
Dodgers get their lamps on the'plll they'll
tear all the paint off that fence, but If they
don't, you'll see the greatest Imitation of
boys swatting flies that you ever lamped at"
The boys in the bleachers' seats are now
unwrapping the sandwiches. Little Red
Sox flags are fluttering all over the stands,
IC C. B. Just blew- In smiling. Says he's
doing a ball game for the first time jn four
years.
"Tho first game I ever did was in Seat
tie," he says. "I -did not know beans about
the game, but when they sont mo out I told
them that I had Sam Crane tied hand and
foot. I learned how to keep, score with
thse queer marks and when It was over
I went back to the oce and forgot what
the marks meant and didn't know what
'happened at all at the game.
f vmik m. 1st of nutty junk and handed
lit to the.managlng editor, saying that I
wastryingio aa i,m "- - "
m that I had suoeeaded admirably, and
that aftr that I weuM be bask, on tht
BOtlae-eeurt Job dotnr duty. I thank you.'
Ring Lardner M here iww at n seat
He says that Marmar4 will pltoh tfee rt
,i f. vrookivn and that Babe Ruth
a hi ? tt fcwjf", ,:
aedea the JUft to lb .J
ALLIES' ARMIES
WIN IN D0BRUDJA
AND MACEDONIA
Sarrail's Forces Sweep For
ward in South Russians
Gain in North
PINCERS CLOSING ON FOE
FRANCE SCORNED
PEACE PROPOSAL
MADE BY HAGUE
Defiant Refusal Sent by
Paris Amounted Almost
to Ultimatum
CALL WAR'S END REMOTE
The first concerted offensive by tho
Allied armies in Macedonia is under
way in what may' bo regarded as a
great attempt to drive the Bulgarians
out of Greece, Gains have been scored
by tho British, French, Italians and
Serbians in tho latest series of attacks
against the German allies.
Terrific losses have been inflicted on
tho Bulgarians in tho Dobrudja, where
tho Russo-Rumanlan armies have cap
tured tho heights between Karabaka
and Besaul.
Chief1 interest continues to be di
rected toward tho Balkans, especially
because of tho lull which has settled
down over the western battle front.
Only fighting of minor importance has
taken placeMn France during the last
twenty-four hours, but there has been
another great burst of nerial activity.
German aeroplanes threw twenty-flve
bombs on the French fortress of BeK
fort, but did no damage. Tho French
attacked the new railway station' of-the
Germans at Vignuellesdropping thirty-
five projectiles. The German machines,
one an Albatross, were shot from, the
sky at Comblcs.
On tho eastern front, where the
Austrb-Germans are hard ' pressed,
stubborn counter-attacks have been d
livered in an effort to check the re
newal of the Russian advance toward
Lemberg. Bucharest officially admits
a retirement In Transylvania, but fight
ing Is still In progress upon Hungarian
toil.
Kedeagatch, the Bulgarian port on
tho Aegean Sea, has been shelled by, an
Allied fleet and Russian men-of-war
are also becoming very active off.the
Bulgarian coast of the Blaok SW.
BRITISH CAPTURE SIX MORE
VILIiAOES ON STROMA FRONT;
TEUTONS LOSE D08RUDJA BASE
LONDON?. T.
fThe aapture of six more viUagVi from
the Bulcarians on tbvfHruma ffnt In
wm annwanat n oflajal die-
paMh to 'the War MtM fm
QUICK NEWS
BRQOKLN (N L) ; 0 0;O 10. . f"
boston (a. l.) . . o o l o . , ; 'r-.t
3rriuard and Jlorcrs; BUoro and Cady.' . ' ,'
'
. A
THE GAME IN DETAIL
f
riltST INNINQ Myers fouled to Cady. Daubcrt struck out.
Stengel out,' Jonvrln to Hobby. No runs, no hits, no errors.
Shore. retired the Dodgers on seven pitched balls.
Hooper fanned. Janvrln struck out. Walker tripled to left
center. Hoblltzell out, Cutshaw to Daubcrt. No runs, one hit, uo errors.
SECOND INNING Wheat singled to the .lnfleld. CutsTlaw hit
Into a. double play, Janvrln to Scott to Hobby, Mowrey got a bass
on balls. Olson fnnncd. ' No runs, one hit, no errors.
Lewis walked. , Onrdner singled, attempting' to sacrifice. Scott
oacrlflccd, Meyers to Daubcrt. Ipwls "went to third and Gardner to
second. Cady was walked purposely, filling the bases, with one man
down. Shore- fanned. Hooper out on n fly to Myers, who made n
betutlful running' catch of a' terrific smash. No runs, one hit, no
errorB. ;
U. S. ISSUES FLAT
DENIAL OF GERARD
MISSION OF PEACE
"Nothing in It," State De-'
partment Says of Sensa
tional Report
GREAT BRITAIN IN DARK
England's Foreign Ofllcc Ignor
ant of Alleged Gorman
Movo
BRUMBAUGH PREDICTS 225,000 HUGHES LEAD IN STATE
Governor Brumbaugh, after registering early this morning at his home division,
tho forty-seventh,. in the Twontysecond Ward, predicted tho success of Hughes In
Pennsylvania by nt least 225,000 majority. This estimate, the Governor said, was
based on observations mado during his recent trips through the State.
ITALIAN STATESMAN FOR LATIN ALLIANCE
CeMaai M Fa Vw. Cetaaui Im
The foVotctng tnall dispatch frofo the
Hague declaring that alt the belligerents'
except France were rtady to discuss peace
two month ago may be ulgntficant in view
o current peace rumor. Earlv in the
summer the Italian censor patted a Rome
dispatch to the United Press stating that
It teas the impression there that France
alone of all the belligerents teas not read
for peace.
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
United I'rni Starr Cormpondtnt.
TUB IIAGUB, Sept. 17 (by mall).
The Dutch Government only two months
ago sounded the European belligerents on
the prospects of peace, the United Tress was
Informed today. Kvery belligerent, except
France, expressed a wllllngness,to enter an
Informal discussion. France's reply was
such a' fiery refusal that one person who
learned Its contents described It as an
ultimatum.
(A noma dispatch to the United Press
yesterday carried the first Intimation that
Holland had been putting out peace feelers.
This dispatch stated that the Allies had
Informed Holland that peace overtures, at
this time wluld be construed as a pro-German
move). ,
Dutch officials not only have not resumed
their attempt at peace negotiations; but they
aro.nbw convinced that the end of the war
Is a long way off.
The one positive Indication that peace Is
Impossible at present Is the wide difference
of opinion between each of the opposing
sides regarding he situation In the ranks
of the other. In the last seVeral days I
have been In Copenhagen, Berlin, The
Hague and Rotterdam. The first Impression
obtained by a traveler Is the wide chasm
between the contending parties.
Copenhagen, which. Is tremendously anti
German, believes that Germany Is about to
fall to pieces. There are reports of unrest,
starvation, depression' and lack of soldiers
In .Germany. The 'people of Copenhagen and
also . residents, of The Hague believe the
Allied offensive on the Homme, In "Russia
and Gallcla and Hungary Is having great
success. ' They can't understand why the
much-talked-of "revolution" In Germany
doesn't begin. No one pays any attention
to the German victories In Rumania.
In Berlin there Is some depression, some
pessimism, but the faith In the ability In
the army 'to 'hold out has not been shaken.
Every one In Germany keeps, maps of the
battle fronts 'and watches the progress of
the fighting closely. The people have amai
lug, faith In yon Hlndeoburg, Interest cen
ters n Mackensen's offensive In Rumania,
The Berlin newspapers emphasize the
shortage of British, tonnage. They declare
food pr ccs have advanced as much In Ing
tead.fs In Berlin, France, Berllners believe,
hiijwhaU(ed her reserves, and her army
la weakening dally moro than any other
ariny
The streets of Berlin, Frankfort, Bremen
and all targe berman Hla are full of 44
dlers all the -tla, refuting the oft-repeated
statement that Germany has, exhausted her
reserves.
"The Allies are le4ng 50 men a day on
the weatetfl irot," was Xe way' one Ger-lf
man put H. "I suppose our tosses are great,
t, but w keep H up as tang as they
oa. wW hold out untH the Allies get
MMMWll ttf HsV
ROME, Oct. 7. An alliance of France, Italy, Spain and Rumapla s advocated
In tho MessagRsro today by Blgnor Artom, a member of Parliament. Tho proposal
is based on common racial Interests. '
'" l r Li--
MEXICO NOT TO INSIST ON TROOPS WITHDRAWAL
ATItANTIC CITY, Oct 7. The. deadlock In (ho negotiations between tho' Amer
ican and Mexican commissioners waif broken today' when tho Mexicans agreed to
formulate a plan for the protoctlon of the Mexican border without Insisting on the
withdrawal of .the American troops.
FARM LOAN BANK BONDS TO PAY FOUR PER CENT
"WASHINGTON, Oct 7. The Federal Farm Loan Board hoa fixed on four
per cent as tho Interest on farm loan bank bonds. This means that farmers who
patronize the farm loan banks will pay from four and one-half to flvo 'per cent
for loans. '
CORONER KNIGHT HURT IN AUTO SMASH
Coroner Knight was badly cut and bruised today In a collision between his
automobile and an autotruck at Harrison avenue and Mill road. The Coroner's
chauffeur also recolvcd slight Injuries, rioth were attended by a physician. The
truck was driven by J, Lyman, of McICInley, a suburban settlement. The Knight
car was wrecked. ' v '
V
MERGER STARTS BIG MOTOR PARTS CONCERN
CLEVELAND. O., Oct 7. Directors of tho Standard "Welding Company and
the Perfo'Cjtton Spring Company signed papers merging tho two corporations, sub
ject to stockholders' approval. It Is understood In business circles that this merger
la to bo the nucleus of a35,000f000 motor porta corporation.
SWEDE TO ATTEMPT TRANSATLANTIC FLIGHT
COPENHAGEN, Oct. 7. Tho National TIdende'a Paris correspondent tele
graphs that the well-known Swedish aviator, Captain Hugo Bundstedt, who for
some months, has resided In Paris, studying lata developments In aviation, will
try to. fly across the Atlantic and has secured the support of Henri Farman, who
regards Sundstcdt as a first-class airman.
WASHINGTON. Oct 7. A complete de
nlal that Ambassador Gerard was bringing
peace overtures from the German Kaiser'
to be put In President Wilson's hands was
authorized by the State Department today.)
Tho authorised statement follows:'
"The State Department has no reason to
think thero Is anything to It.' and every
reason to think there la nothing In lt'r
LONDON, Oct 7, In response to an liw
Wiry from tho International Press 8ervle
correspondent, the British. Foreign Oltlca
today stated that .nothing was known hero
with regard to the object of Ambassador
Gerard's visit to the United States.
NEW YORK, Oct 7.' Leading New Tork
bankers and business men today showed a
general disposition to doubt If not dii-
credit the report spread yesterday after
noon that Ambassador James Gerard, en
route here from Berlin. Is bringing German
peace overtures. Bankers with close rela
tions with the Central Powers were es
pecially emphaUo In expressing their view,
that the report was manufactured for th
purpose of affecting the market.
.
NEWTORK, Oct. 7. Charles H. .Sabln.
president of the Guaranty Trust Company,
admitted today that ft was he who gave
out the Information yesterday that Ambas.
ssdor Gerard Is bringing peace proposal
from Germany.
From his country home at Southampton,
L. I., Sabln telephoned to his secretarj$to '
"confirm" and 'Venerate" his statement.
The Guaranty Trust Company Is (he second
largest .financial institution In New York,
According to reports In . Wail street It
was decided at a conference of Mr. Sabla
and his associates to make public the mis
sion of Ambassador Gerard so that any'
subsequent announcement, made suddenly,"
wouia not upset financial condltioim.
BI3R?iST0RFP D WW
OF QERAftD'9 f BAClflSgiQN
.Officials at German Embassy Suspect
British Plot jrf Report
WASHINGTON Oct"
Count von' Bernstorff, -the. aermiri. Am
bassador, has emphatically denlSd the re-,
port that Germany waa transmitting a
proposal for peace through Ambassador
Gerard.
"It la a pure Invention from start to
finish," the Ambassador said. "There Is not
a word of truth In It."
In making his denial official the Ambas
sador clearly Indicated that he knew where
the report originated and why It was being
circulated. German Embassy official say
that British sources have Inspired the Idea,
that the Imperial Government Is seeking
peace proposals In order to encourage th
men fighting In the trendies.
They say It Is one of the tricks of th
game and at the same time often con
veniently serves certain financial and other
Interests. In, this case the news that fh
so-called "German peace, move" was to. be
launched, appears to have reached Count
von Bernstorff in time for him to com
municate officially with his Government
and obtain a reply from Berlin,
WHEAT BRINGS $1.81 IN ST. PAUL
'! ST. PAUL, Minn., Ost 7. A carload of No. 1 hard wheat sold for $1.81 a bushel
nt' the equity co-operative grain exchange here. This waa said to bo the highest
pries paid for wheat In the Northwest In recent years.
CAPTAIN OF GERMAN RAIDER KILLED IN FRANCE
MILAN, Oct 7. The death is announced of Count von Dohna-Schlodlen, cap
tain of the Moewe, which captured or sank a score of Allied vessels in the Atlantic.
He commanded a battalion of the Thirty-fifth Infantry Regiment, and was killed by
a shell on the German front In France on September 25.
.TRENTON BRffiEGROOM,,
73, DROWNS HIMSELF
William Bullus, Retired Merv
' chant, Left Note for Wife '
Telling of Deed
PROGRESSIVE-"DRY"-WOMEN'S PARTY PLANNED
CHICAGO. Oct. 7. A new national political party, which Its friends believe
eventually will hold the balance of power In the United States, is In process of.
organization, according to tho publicity department of the Prohibition party. The
new party la to be made up of ' Prohibitionists, Progressives and women voters-land
wlil be called either the "Prohibition-Progressives" or the ''Progressive-Prohibitions."
5 ju
STATE TROOPS PARADE FOR INDIANAPOLIS
INDIANAPOLIS, Oct. 7. Ten companies of Pennsylvania Infantry on the way
from. Mount Gretna, Pa., to the border marched In Indianapolis for exercise and
rest from 'the Journey, They were here for about one hour, and, under command
pf Colonel Richard Harding, visited the business section of the city, which waa
thronged with thousands woltltui for one of the centennial celebration parades.
AMERICANS PLAN ARCTIC CANAL FOR RUSSIA
. LONDON, Oct? 7. American engineers have drawn up details of a plan to
dig a canal from the Arctic Ocean through Russia and Finland to the GuU of
Bothnia; accordfng to a Stockholm dlspatqh to the Morning Post. The canal would
run from Kandalaska. on the White Sea, to Tornea, hear the Swedish frontier, and
would est JW,OW,00 ruble (lB0.6oo,000), The total distance wouflf be about 2C0
ralles.
.. TWQ MORlf CHILDREN AIB OF PARALYSIS
InfasjtUo ,.jtalyji, fl two OeatHa in this -elty wKhlnl twenty-few b4ra
im until juum today; but m new cases have been refU4. The 44 'ektklrea are
Albert WJUW,' flye'yWs ojd, of C4d York road and VMtattee street, and Katharine
Brown, six montna oM, of T South Isemlager street The total numfeer of
atnee January J J . There have been Mi death.
TRENTON, N. J., Oct 7,-rWlllIam Bullua,
seventy-three years old, a retired buslaesa
man of this city and wealthy, drowned him
self In th waterway back of the State,
House here today after leaving a note fer
his bride of a week, In which'' he said his'
body would be found at the place Indicated.
No reason Is gven for the deed. '
AIR RAIDERS KILL AMERICAN y
Germans Blamed by Bucharest -Rumania
Protests Slaying Non
combatants PETROORAD, Oct 7. An AjmtImm
citizen was killed In one of the German air
raids on Bucharest, said dlepatattea received
here today. The Amertean Minister has
wred details to the Mate Department Hu
mahla has addressed a net .to neutral
Powers pretesting agalBft the' kHllac 'eC
nonoombatants.
THEWEA0?HI1R-
FOXXCAST
iFor PhiUdtlftM 4vieH4j
anAmo4trthf warn iiiAgkt om( Am
dj, wkfc 0ett, wrlj ymdt. ,
LMWOTH W.' BAY '
Ml '&:;: in H 1 &&', M VZ
pWLAWAMt WVBS -MMS HIM HIM '
- w -, -J j
of the Sunset" avNfew Serial Story oi the Mexican Border, by, Rex Beach, Befiins bo -Pae 9 of This lasu
