w
"'x
i,v""Fr&
ji
JF
m THE HEXT THIRTY DAYS THE BROAD AX WILL flE SEMI TO:T ADDRESS IN THE UNITED STATES FOR QUE YEAR FOR OWE DOLLAR
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL, WHERE THEY MAY
Vol. XXII.
GHIGAGO, OCTOBER 7, 1916
No. 3
A Campaign to Boost Negro
Business National Negro
Business League Takes For
ward Step to Increase Busi
ness of Negro Merchants
A Comprehensive Program
Suggested
Tuskegee Institute, Alabama, Octo
ber. One of the most important forward-looking
steps taken by the Ex
ecutive Committee of the National
Negro Business League which met last
August in Kansas City, Missouri, was
the decision to inaugurate definite
plans for directly assisting Negro mer
chants to increase their business and
to extend their influence in the com
munities in which they operate. A
number of plans were suggested and
considered and considerable thought
put into the matter in order that the
best and most effective plan might be
adopted.
"Trade Boosting Campaigns" sim
ilar to those recently conducted in
Nashville, Tennessee, and Atlanta,
Georgia, seem at this time to be the
most practical and effective way to
help the Colored business men in all
parts of the country and it was unani
mously decided by the officers of the Na
tional League to urge Local Negro
Business Leagues in all parts of the
country to arrange to conduct these
campaigns in their communities.
In November, 1915, a Trade Boosting
Campaign was held in the city of At
lanta, Georgia, and the Negro mer
chants who participated in the move
ment have expressed themselves as be
ing highly pleased with the results.
Some of the merchants realized as
much as a sixty per cent increase in
their business as a result of co-operative
advertising plans.
A representative of the National Ne
gro Business League spent several
days in Atlanta early in September and
went over the whole matter very fully
with the representative Colored busi
ness men of that city. "The Colored
people of Atlanta have never had such
an awakening as they received during
the ten davs of our campaign," said
one business man. Another man who
has been in the grocery business for
mer ten years in Atlanta said: "One
i perienee which I had during our
Trade Boosting Campaign was worth
all the time and effort I put into it.
A. certain well-known Colored men who
had never been into my store before al
though he lived in the neighborhood
came in and looked around and finally
bought some high-grade merchandise.
During the time I was serving him, he
k pt on looking around at the stock of
goods which I carried. Finally, he
ni. 'This campaign which the Colored
business men havo on, induced me to
como and see what you had. I must
confess that I have never traded with
a merchant of my own race because I
Ittl not think that Colored men carried
Itm elass goods, and had never taken
the timo to investigate before now.
You may say for mo that your cam-
I'-ngn has converted at least one man
of tho race.' " Other similar state
ments wero made by other business
men in other lines and tho general im
pression among tho business men of At
lanta is that these Trade Boosting
Campaigns are splendid weapons for
arousing pride of race and for educat
ing our people to support race enter
prises. The plan by which the Atlanta busi
ness men worked to arouse interest in
their campaign is a good method to be
used in any community and it is best
described in tho words of one of the
leaders in this constructive movement.
He says: "A group of Atlanta busi
ness men were one day discussing some
methods for arousing the people of At
lanta to the importance of supporting
business enterprises owned and oper
ated by Colored men. Various plans
were offered and finally some one sug
gested a ten days campaign in which
the Colored people would be urged to
patronize their own stores. Coupons
were to be given for each 25 cents cash
purchase and for all sums paid on back
accounts. The coupons must have
some value so it was decided to give
prizes for the persons having the most
coupons at the end of the campaign.
Our prizes were first class including
a lot in Meadow Brook, barrels of flour,
hams, a sewing machine, silverware,
dishes, etc. This made the people re
alize that we really meant business
and they were really aroused and
turned the money into the hands of the
Colored merchants."
When asked how they got the prizes,
our informant said, "Some of the
prizes were donated by White business
men and others were purchased. Every
man who is in business in Atlanta was
asked to participate and to contribute
at least $1.00 towards the expenses of
the campaign. Some of them gave as
much as $10.00, but most of them gave
$1.00. Our contributions totaled near
ly $250.00 and after we had paid for
all expenses of prizes, printing and ad
vertising we had on hand a balance of
nearly $30.00 which is in our treasury
now. ' '
How to Arrange For a Trade Boosting
Campaign.
1. Call the business men together
and advise them that the object of the
meeting is to help each man to get
more business.
2. Secure a pledge from each man
to contribute enough to purchase prizes,
have coupons printed and to thorough
ly advertise the campaign.
3. Appoint a committee to call on
such merchants as are not present at
the first meeting. This committee is
to talk with them and urge their co
operation in tho campaign.
4. Appoint another committee to ar
range for announcements to be made
in all the churches, at all the services.
5. Decide upon a definite date when
you think it will be best to conduct the
campaign in your city and then all
work together to have the whole town
aroused by that week. Talk about the
prizes, the value of race co-operation,
and show how each Dollar spent with
a member of the race who is in busi
ness means an investment in prestige
for the race and in opportunities for
the boys and girls of the race. Let
the opening day of the campaign be on
a Monday and on tho Sunday before
invite each minister in the city to
preach a sermon on tho purpose of the
campaign and the value of race co-operation
in business. Make it very
clear that these campaigns are not or
ganized in any spirit of antagonism
to merchants of other races, but for
the sole purpose of advertising the ex
istence of Negro merchants. In many
instances managers of wholesale stores
with whom tho Colored men do busi
ness will be glad to make contributions
of merchandise which can be used for
prizes.
In communities where Local Negro
Business Leagues are already organ
ized, it should not be difficult to or
ganize the Trade Boosting Campaigns.
If no League exists in your city, yon
should communicate at once with Em
mott J. Scott, Secretary of tho Nation
al Negro Business League, Tuskegee
Institute, Alabama and definite infor
mation will be sent you at once.
All lineB of business are eligible to
participate in these campaigns and all
COL. FRANKT.TN A. DENISON.
Commanding the Eighth Regiment Illinois National Guards, who will arrive
home with the members of his regiment the middle or the latter part of
the coming week.
communities where there is any con
siderable Negro population are urged
to arrange for a Trade Boosting Cam
paign this fall. For more detailed in
formation regarding the Trade Boost
ing Campaigns, write the Secretary of
the National Negro Business League,
Tuskegee Institute, Alabama.
MAYOR MAY SHUT SALOONS THAT
HARBOR GAMBLING.
One
Judge
may be the closing of several saloons.
Mayor Thompson on Thursday di
rected Chief Healey to submit to him a
report on the saloons which the testi
mony in court showed had been used
for bookmaking or in connection with
which poker and other gambling games
havo been permitted. The mayor did
not announce the purpose for which he
wished the report, but similar orders
in the past have been followed by re
vocations of licenses.
The number of saloons involved can
not be estimated, as some of the lists
of handbooks in the Tennes ring did
not give any information beyond the
telephone numbers in the places, but
these arc to be checked up, together
with the more definite information pro
duced on the witness stand, and it is
estimated that at least half a dozen
bars will be hit.
Testimony Hit Saloons.
There was direct testimony hitting
two saloons. It was shown that the
saloon in the name of "Jim the Bar
ber" Ahearn, at Thirty-first street and
Indiana avenue, is owned by Sells &
Stall, the owners of the Cottage Grove
avenue cigar store which sells no ci
gars. Tho two partners admitted their
real business was that of taking bets.
There also was the unqualified state
ment of one witness that he had gam
bled in the card rooms on the third
floor of the Hotel Astor, whose man
ager is said to be Samuel Cohen, a
Tennes lieutenant. In a dozen other
instances telephone numbers indicated
that handbooks were conducted in sa
loons. Among these places were the
saloons of John Brodcrick, 732 West
Madison street; Pat O'Malley, 743
South Clark street; Patrick Reagan, 12
North Clark street; Shingleton, 2S
East Twenty-eighth street; and Har
nett, 2S00 West Chicago avenue.
City Has No Power.
Under the present ordinances the city
has no power to close cigar stores
where gambling is permitted. For that
reason, it is said, the administration
is considering asking the city council
to pass an ordinance licensing cigar
stores and authorizing the mayor to re
voke licenses for violations of the law.
Tho licenso feo would be small, as the
principal purpose of tho ordinance
would bo to establish better police con
trol over the stores.
Chief Healey said that other impor
tant matters had prevented his giving
attention to the cases of Capt. Joseph
Smith and Capt. Stephen K. Healy, in
whoso district Daniel F. Kinneally ad
mitted he conducted open gambling
games in cigar stores.
Joy for the Gamblers.
Gamblers heaved a sigh of relief
when they read in the afternoon papers
that Judge Landis had agreed to give
them a rest from his activities in order
that he may enjoy a brief vacation.
"I am going to spend two days on
business matters," he said, "and then
I am going to play six straight days of
golf. Golly! How I'll hit the ball."
' Before taking his leave of the court
room Judge Landis took a final fling at
the Automatic Telephone Company for
of the use of its lines by the Tennes gam-
immediate, direct result
Landis' exposure of gamblingiiJng ring and others. Ha asked. S. W
Traey, vice president of the Chicago
Tunnel Company, owners of the system,
if a telephone had not been installed in
the Hotel Astor in the last three days.
Mr. Tracy testified in the negative.
Gives Proof to Lawyer.
The court also summoned Attorney
Daniel J. Schuyler, Jr., counsel for the
company, and after a denial that the
witness knew the gamblers had used
the automatic telephones for their busi
ness, he handed the lawyer a list of
telephones which witnesses had said
wero used for that purpose.
"I can't direct you," he said, "to
do anything with this, but I merely
want you to have the proof."
District Attorney Clyno announced
that an effort will be made to prosecute
the members of the Tennes syndicate
for conspiracy to use the mails to de
fraud. "While I'm not absolutely sure," he
said, "I think we can prosecute them
under the conspiracy statute."
Eighteen Discharged.
Eighteen men arrested in a handbook
raid at 557 West Madison street were
discharged by Judge Mahoney for lack
of evidence. Detectives said they
found three racing publications but the
court held this was insufficient.
Judge John W. Beckwith, on the same
grounds, discharged Peter Scheider who
was arrested at 610 South Dearborn
street for playing the "26" dice game.
Charles Rogers, who was arrested with
him, failed to appear and was fined $25
and costs. The court held that there
was no evidence against Scheider.
The Eighth Regiment Illi
nois National Guard,
Col. Franklin Denison
Commanding, Will Ar
rive in Chicago the
Latter Part of the
Coming Week. The
Leading Afro -American
Citizens of this
City and State Should
Arrange to Give it a
Warm or a Hearty
Home Coming.
The members of the Eiehth Rejn-
ment, Illinois National Guard, will soon
be able to proudly strut up and down
old State street in all their military
and warlike glory, much to the great
delight of their wives, their sweet
hearts, other lady friends, the smaller
boys and girls, the rooters or the hangers-on
in general and when it does
strike this big town, its famous band
playing "There Will be a Hot Time in
the Old Town Tonight." Everybody
in it, at least those residing on the
south side will wake up or sit up and
take notice, for at last the regiment
has been ordered to fold their tents, to
stack or unstack their arms for the
last time on Texas soil and to forward
march at the stern command of their
superior officers, for the members of the
regiment, with all of its belongings,
will entrain this blessed morning at
San Antonio, Texas, and if no long de
lays occur en route, it will arrive at
Camp Lincoln, Springfield, Illinois,
either Tuesday morning or Tuesday af
ternoon, where it will possibly stay
about two davs to muster it out of the
Federal service, and the regiment
should reach this city either Thursday
evening or early Friday morning.
Each and every one of its members
from the highest to the lowest will re
turn home in first class or standard
Pullman cars and their meals will bo
served, to them from three modern
kitchen cars.
If any one will take tho trouble to
re-read The Broad Ax of June 24, they
will find that it was stated in these
columns at that time, that "the Eighth
Regiment, Illinois National Guard,
would receive orders within a few days
from that time to invade Mexico that
it would not return home to Chicago
until the middle of October or tho first
of November."
Time has amply proven that wo
knew what we wero talking about at
that time and the citizens of Chicago
will do themselves proud by giving Col.
Denison and his regiment a royal wel
come home, for he and its members aro
highly deserving of all the honors that
can be bestowed upon them.
one of his long-winded, eloquent
speeches, and we are now fully con
vinced that Col. Roscoe Conkling Sim
mons is not dead, that he still lives or
at least, comes to life once in a whilo
in tho land of the living.
COL. BOSCOE CONKLING
MONS HAS COME TO
AGAIN OB STILL LIVES.
SIM-LIFE
About two years ago it was stated in
the columns of the greatest weekly
newspaper in the world, that Col. Ros
cic Conklinc Simmons, who at that
time was running or publishing "The
Sun" at Memphis Tenn., which did
not shino for all very long, had closed
his eyes in death and had been trans
formed into a white-robed angel; that
before he had joined the Heavenly host,
ho had beaten or defrauded the great
est weekly newspaper in the world out
of a large sum of money which he had
collected in as subscriptions to it.
For almost two years we believed
that that story or account of the death
of Col. Roscoo Conkling Simmons was
absolutely true and the only thing that
disabused our mind of that fact was
that the last issue of the greatest week
ly newspaper in the world contained
his cut or picture and an extract from
COLORED WOMEN'S HUGHES
REPUBLICAN HEADQUARTERS,
WESTERN BRANCH, ARE LO
CATED AT 3117 SOUTH STATE
STREET, CHICAGO, ILL., PHONE
DOUGLAS 8780.
FRANCIS H. WARREN OF DETROIT,
MICHIGAN, NOMINATED BY THE
DEMOCRATS TO MAKE THE
RACE FOR THE STATE SENATE.
The Colored women of this city who
are real politicians, arc now fully or
ganized and ready to do aggressive
work for the election of Ilughes and
Fairbanks.
The officers of the organization are:
Mrs. E. L. Davis, Chairman; Mrs. Irene
Goins, Vice Chairman; Mrs. Ada Mc
Kinley, Secretary; Mrs. Ella G. Berry.
Organizer; Mrs. Fanny Barrin Will
iams, Chairman of Publicity; Mrs.
Irene Lewis, Clerk.
The organization is a part of the
National Bureau and is making an ef
fort to reach every Colored woman in
tho twelve suffrago states, urging them
of the importance at this time of cast
ing their vote for the Republican can
didate for president, Charles E. Hughes.
Francis II. Warren, who is one of
the leading Colored lawyers of Detroit,
Michigan, has been nominated by tho
leaders of the Democratic party resid
ing in the third district of that city to
make the race for the state senate.
The Democrats of that state, seem to
bo different from the Democrats resid
ing in this state, for in this stato they
appear to be unwilling to nominate a
highly decent Colored man for any po
sition even for a common dog-catcher.
THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNIVER
SARY EDITION OF THE BROAD
AX.
Tho 21st anniversary edition of tho
Chicago Broad Ax camo to our desk
this week in a special edition. And ed
itor, Julius F. Taylor, deserves unstint
ed praise for his efforts. For the edi
tion is a splendid one. Accept our
congratulation, Editor Taylor, and long
raay The Broad Ax live. The Advo
cate, Portland, Oregon, September 23,
1916.
f -taS ,-
-T'-J
i
