WEATHER FORECAST
. . OCALA, FLORIDA, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7,-1916
Generally fair tonight and Sunday.
VOL. 22 NO. 233
1? PflTT f HOHIll
IIIL UfHEi ILL
IINUM HAS
THE NOMINATION
r liioi uamk OF THE SERIES
WAS SWIFT AND HARDLY
CONTESTED
Arbitrary Act of Secretary May Have SUPREME COURT REFUSES TO
Caused an Innocent Man to GRANT NEW WRITS FOR
be Electrocuted . EITHER SIDE
ANOTHER SUB
HAS CROSSED
(Associated Press)
lallahassee, Fla., Oct. 7 Attorney
Flournoy, for Catts, yesterday peti-
bmg bing, N. Y.,- Oct. 7. Thomas tioned the supreme court for a man-
Bambrick was electrocuted this morn- damus writ, to compel the state can
ing for the murder of George Dap-1 vas-sing board to recount and count
lioston, Oct; 7. Clear skies, light P,n a New York policeman, a year J only his 69 votes from the precinct of
breezes and a moderate temperature ag0 i3ambnck has twice been re- Alachua, in Alachua county, and at
(Associated Press)
formed perfect weather conditions for
prieved.
the same time Attorney Adams for
the first of the world
Thomas M. Osborne, the warden at I Knott, asked the court ?for a writ to
senes games, sing Sincr. addressiner a patherW of compel the recanvass of all
xne mgnt nne was smaller than that bankers and business men in New returns since the last canvass. Both
preceding any game here in years, butlYoric last night," said.:. there was no! writs Were denied, which leaves Knott
many arrived at daybreak. When the c iamDncK was innocent, j me nominee on what is generally re-
barriers were swun rW f fl of the test
- - wv,. vv hitman ftn tha tfl anhAna I,,,- V . I tnr tha i.nn. nf nn
. . . . I w v wlkUHUilG UUt 1113 Bet" I v "W""WUU
uwiusittsuc xans scramDied lor. tne
best places
Two thousand extra Eeats had been
erected and the additional standing s'mS him
snace TimviiluA UJ IrorS.
- x ' . vyx vus viivuauuu pcu-
pie brings the capacity of the park up
to w,w, .Many carried heavy boxes! Brooklyn: Daubert out: third to
containing lunch and to he saH aalfirRt tStno-pi
MM 1 w w... -i w . W W. Mill 1 U bl llLb UllU I W I 111 II I I I . 1 U III riIQ niEl innrt I wI-it .
- i . . 1 ixtuuv. iiio icau duu -live
vvneat. out second to nrst. iNo runs, over and above the . sixty-nine that
no hits, no errors. Catta minima Tha
following is the special report giv- Boston: Gardner hit to short and writ oA the .n, w if c
en to the Star" off the Western Union I Olson fumbled. Gardner landing1 on necessarv to rranvn tn '1
r v ' I P WW AAA vAi vMhJ V bl v
v.-e Dy air. u. ueng: . ; first. Scott forced Gardner, third to lead of Mr; Knott as the result k s in
LINE-UPS second, Scott taking first. Cady got (the nominee would not be changed by
r pass to nrst, ocott going, to second. la recanvass.
Brooklyn: Myers, cf; Daubert, lb: ohore out on a pop fly to first. Hooper The. court wrote an oninion in de-
Mengie, rf; Wheat, If; Cutshaw, 2b; out on tiy to short. No runs, no hits, nying Flournoy's writ which follows:
retary refused to awaken him unless
the petitioners had new evidence.
One run, two hits, no er
SIXTH INNING
The state committee meets today
and the law requires that the secre
tary . of state, not later than thirty
days prior to the election, send out in
structions for the printingof the bal
lots. Knott is the nominee now by 21
votes, the same as before, but the re
canvass of all new amended returns
seats.
THE ATLANTIC
THE GERMAN SUBMARINE U-531
ARRIVED AT NEWPORT
THIS AFTERNOON
ALLIES GAINING DRIVE BMH'I
III THE BALKANS THE GRAND DUKE
Either Quiet Prevail on or Conflict- Drive to be Made by Russians Into
,ing Reports Come from
Other Fronts
(Associated Press)
(Associated Press)
London, Oct. 7. The Entente cam
paign against Monastir in Southern
Serbia is developing rapidly from
k V 4-1 IL 1 . .
Kpwnnrt t t cst -' n ti, WM1 vue bOUin aa east. While the
man submarine U-53 arrived in the . ied Mforcef have pressed to within
harbor here this afternoon. The sub- V1 ". A f e cuy lrom south,
iiic oeroians nave aavanced north -
mersible crossed in 17 days.
PilEIDE
ADDRE IIIG
r
THE PROGRESSIVES
WiU Refute the Charge that He and
Congress Yielded to the
Brotherhoods '
west from Kaimakcalan on the west
ern slopes of the Nidje ridge. Paris
reports they have reached the vallev
of the Velaboda, which empties into
tne river Cerna " almost
Bulgaria Through the
- Dobrudja ;
London, Oct. 7. Most alarming of
all the news recently published in
Germany is the report, received thru
Stockholm, that Grand Duke Nicholas
had left Trebizond for Odessa to pro-
.
- - vwww w feV LU uic i vcu wiuniy aiter tne acci-
Dobrudja to take command of the! dent The Hawkhea! i;
i .. . . I . . . z & w
imies ariving tnrougH Bulgaria to- the shipyard under her own steam,
ward Constantinople. The one hundred
Reports from many quarters affirm safely removed from the Citv of Nor-
wiaw mebe armies nave Deen organized lolk after the crash.
on a very powerful scale and the Ger
PiCEEOItKrUilll
HER fll'li PfllVEfl
BRITISH STEAMER WAS
SUNK BUT WAS ONLY
BADLY BATTERED
NOT
. . ' ! -:i
Norfolk, Oct. 7,The British tramn
steamer Hawkhead which was in col
lision with tlie 5teamer City of Nor
folk in a fog last night, was not sunk
man reading public is being prepared
for COmin? PVPnts Vitr tha onTmnn
direCtly I ry,r, I- . I
east of Monastir. Farther west aW YTlr "l campa,P Ior
TVa TrecKo --wqueni oi itoumania and the roll-
.,w-- v,- ui..: "V A xvussian leic, r ieia Mar-
Paris reports that French troops are K" n ""r f - Vf, T
. . 1 I Kenzen to whom, it is recalled, is
TRUCK AHD TOACTOl
participating in that movement.
SOFIA REPORTS SUCCESS
(Associated Press)
Long Branch, Oct. 7. President
Wilson reached his summer "home
from his western trip this morning
and began working on the speech he Somme, Paris reports. : The only
MowrySb; Olson, ss; Meyers, c; Mar
quard, p. ; ; ..
Boston: Hooper, rf ; Jarvin, 2b;
Walker, cf; Hoblitzel, lb; Lewis,"; If;
Gardner, 3b; Scott, ss; Cady, c; Shore,
BATTERIES
Boston: Shore and Cady.
Brooklyn: Marquard and Meyers.
UMPIRES
At plate: Connally.
On bases: Dlneen.
' Rightfield: O'Day.
Leftfieldr Quigley.
' Attendance; 40,00Q-' ,
FIRST INNING
Brooklyn: Myers out on foul fly to
catcher.' Daubert out on strike. Sten
gel out, second to first. - No runs, no
hits, no errors. '"'"" ''J, . '
Boston: Hooper fanned Jarvin fan
ned. Walker drove to center field
fence for a triple. Hoblitzel out, sec
ond to first. No runs, one hit, no er
rors. ' ;
SECOND INNING
one error.
SEVENTH INNING
Brooklyn: Cutshaw was. out, second
to first. Mowry singled to right field
and Olson hit into a , double nlav.
Mowry being forced at second and Ol
son was out at first. One hit, no runs,
no errors. t
Boston: Jarvin doubled to left, Wal
ked hit to short; Olson fumbled, Jar
vin going to third and Walker : was
safe at first on Olson's error. Hob
litzel hit a hot one to second which
Cutshaw fumbled. Jarvin i scorinc.
w,iU iiuuiiww was Hi,.! v0- A-.f---. it.
Uini i T - j- , , lemur.
4"a vjiuiier nit 10 secona ana m,, j . . ,
rfct,- tx. i j. vauaM xcxcueu to was maae
"uuuiici io vii I nnA f j.j j i.j-.
il; j ,j r j c m. e -fvu .uw cuisiiucu oiiu tonecieu re
m-.u rtiiu uaruiier on iirsu ocoil OUII,..,, iu. t.r i
"In the supreme court of Florida,
ex rel Sidney J. Catts, relator, vs. H.
Clay Crawford, Thomas F. West and
J, C. Luning. secretary of stM At
torney general and state treasurer.
respectively, constituting the state
canvassing board for the democratic
primary of June 6th, 191G, respond
ents.
"The prayer of the petition is that
the state canvassing board be com
pelled to add the sixty-nine votes
from precinct No. 3, in Alachua coun
ty, to the canvass made on Sept. 21st,
and from this to declare as a result
JTov-
EIGHTH INNING
!
V. J v rri
flZlghtA "0bht!el SCOn'"g n Krit here prayed confines that board
' f lo to the returns before it on said date
first. Three runs, one hit, two errors. and takes from its consideration any
amended or corrected returns since
filed. In other wnrHfl ' if enol-o
Brooklyn: Meyers out short to first, the state canvassint? hoar t
Johnson, who is now batting for Mar- the true result of the nrimarv
quard. drove a sincfle to richt. Mverslti
Brook.: Wheat Angled feast first hit inio a douMe ay, Johnson beiH. Ibui rflTi'SS
sc. Cutshaw hit with a double forced ont . at second nd Me,. uk ;.-.... .
play, forcine meat out al second. d,ubled at first K. ZJ
rf . v ,,w- ouji.i -ivicvi. y ic-
errors. ' ornnts .
fanned, retiring the side. No runs, Boston: Pfeffer now nitohi fAJTVr:WmCn "
I e I "vivii-u uv uic icialiULi
one hit, no errors. Brooklvn.' Rhnro m.f flv f --.l-ft w -x...
Boston: Lewi, was presented with Hoot; : walked on ., r,,!, rT'. ,B 8
a baso on balls. Gardner bunted Uintrled to nVht. iWr pH nnLu v,- i.,-.....: '. , ,
l"f. T v ' 5 S .! Stengel'S bad thr0W t0 third' Jarvin from its consideration any account of
single, Lewis taking second. Scott g-oinsr to second. WalW w.W ...k,,-, . .
" " - 7 ...vv.i .buuviju&uu Lunctuuus uj, witi various
Hoblitzel out on fly to left. Lewis hit county returns, however meritoTimi,
to second and forced Walker at that
station. One run, one hit, one' error.
will deliver to the progressives and
independents this afternoon. . He read
many telegrams congratulating . him
on his first Middle Western trip. ,
The president considered it possible
that, he will again refer to the settle-
due the fact that the Prussian army
is still camping in Russia, that Ser
bia IS in -the Vm-nrta 4V.-. 1 t
CJ z , '., , . ' I " via mc veil ti ax lil-
T V . rePUIS01. assaults lies, that Bulgaria is carrying out
on the Bulgarians and their, allies hWdpH rr,intw.
along the line south of the Constanza- large scale, and that. Turkey has lost
T xaiiwa,. . none of her confidence will probably
QUIET ALONG THE SOMME e to maneuyer extensively on ac
. - ' : count or the peculiar terrain of the
it is comparatively quiet along the j Dobrudja.
The vast quadrilateral of the Dob-
ac-
uyity of the last day or two was a rudja lying between the elbow of the
sngnt advance of the French near Danube, the Blank Sm'
manian-Bulgarian . frontier on the
south, is an immense sandy plain with
Bouchavesnes. '
RUMANIANS ARE RESTLESS
marshes on the edge of the river and
of the seashone. There is no water
apart from salt wells and the country
t A T?nmo ttt. ! moo MM
. ."vau ob-mc hca f roch Piln.oi'- J.-i: l '".
fi.Q -.,;4-:i--u ... " """"""" cAjfcuiuon nas cross-
Pastur-
- - . ... w fcw.w, yon MacKenzen is said to
wcuuuau neiuier siae asKca ior.iegis
lation.
CARD OF THANKS
Ocala,. Fla., Oct. 7th, 1916.
To the many dear friends whose
tribute in "very conceivable wayi in
service, love, kindness and sympathy
m the last hours in the
have at- ages, which grow up after the spring
tacked it without success. storms, and support the herds of sheep
; Berlin reports an advance in Tran-and buffalo on which the sparse pop-
syivania and the British; claim the u'ation makes its living. This popu-
capture of two villages in Macedonia. Nation is of mixed blood, comprising
Turks, Roumanians, Greeks, Bulgar-
COMMANDER OF MOEWE KILLED
London, Oct. 7. Count Von Dohna-
Schlodien, who commander the Ger-
W--an. .' vi- - J - . . :
mail ijiiuer moewe, was Killed in
ians and J ews, about 200,000 in all.
The only completed railroad in the
territory is that running ., westward
from the port of Constantza toward
To be Purchased by the County Com
missioners for Working
the Roads
The county commissioners have" de
cided to purchase a three-ton truck
and a small tractor for woi&ing the
reads in this county. These machines
will be purchased in lieu of the five
ton road working truck, which the
commissioners have been investiirat-
ing. The three-ton truck will be used
for hauling material, and possibly for
COM a 1 1 . . m
oviamg. a ne na.cur wm oe usea lor
hauling; and scraping. Neither of
these machines will scarify, as it is
claimed the five-ton truck would. The
commissioners, however, decided that
the five-ton truck could not be handled
with sufficient facility. The three-ton
wiuvn... wm jye useu, 10 siarc With, in
district No. 1, under Commissioner
Carn, and the tmctor in district No.
under Commissioner Luffman.
PRIZES FOR THE
CANNING CLUB GIRLS
To All Canning Club Girls: We are
interested in what records you have
made on your one-tenth acre plot. If
. ... --u tiuuvi iuucnC was l&lllcU 111 I v ,.. . w..
, jue oi our ri.. "! . . - - . .. . . I nit-ii n..v..c4- 'a- t, t..
t . . .- - .... .. i iMaute- Hucoraini'' tj a news disnat-h "v vi.vu, uutuaivou,. -o tne iwu-
uear one, ana in tne last rites after T - " - " 7 I zjaixias rri t. you have Wn t.mh1p hv a
j-tuiu xuan. . was reported a tew 1 1 .. co W1C uauuuc wiuun . j v.wu6i. Vi
days ago that the Germans were usintr tneir own territory, the Dobrudja of-1 a,lu u" noi dg oiscourageo,
. .... . -
sailors from Belgium on the Somme Icrs STeateT tacuity for operations
out, sacrifice catcher to first, Lewis
taking third and Gardner on .second.
j Cady went to first on four balls. Ex
o j citcment, ran high. Shore fanned and
j Hooper out on fly to centerfield. No
j runs, one hit, no errors.
! THIRD INNING
' Meyers but, pitcher to first, Mar-
NINTH INNING
Brooklyn: Daubert got a pass to
first, Stengel singled to right, Dau
bert going to second, t Wheat forced
Daubert at third, pitcher to third.
Mowry hit to sec
ond, Jarvin fumbled the ball and Sten
;uard struck out. Myers singfed torCutshaw waR h;t hv MTV
x i i T..i. : i i t I . r -
-vnw.xiieiu. iauDert went out on tne bases were full
tnird strike. No runs, one hit, no er-
Via. . . . I -vol r.r,A mnnt WUl. 1
lioston: -.jarvin -tanned, catcher on se(.on(1 nnf, Mnwrv nn fircf n1cn
dropped the ball but recovered and Lrnxro w riri, - fi...
I th'e w thf .r"nne, J lker knocke4 it do;but couId not hold it.
In V ? . ; -f001 Meyers was out on a foul fly to first.
ir.r, ;Ti nettIO,r ;?ree . Meride. who is now batting for Pfef-
Qouoiea to leit neia, scormg fe- was :vpn t,;, h. n Kal1
iroblitzel. Lewis out at second, iT1 Cnt&hw nf.rr.se, it-w.
. x. . . . a t.-. I : ".v
to snorv. une run, iwo mra, other run. Mays now pitching and
Thomas catching for Boston. Meyers
;no errors.
FOURTH INNING
V.
hit one over the pitcher's head for a
single. Mowry scorinsr. Bases still
Brooklyn: Stengel singled to left full. Daubert out. short to first. Four
neld. Wheat hit the first ball Ditched
CO the ric-ht field fence for a tnnle.
' scoring Stengel. Cutshaw out, sacri- Box Score:
fico fly to right and Wheat thrown Brooklyn
. oiit at the plate. Mowry out second J Coston
Ro first. One run, two hits, no errors.
1 Boston: Gardner fanned by Mar
(q"ard. Scott was out on a fly to left
-ell. Cady went to first on four bad
ones, but Shore was out on a foul to
atcher. No runs, no hits, no errors.
R H E
.0001000046103
.00 10 103 lx 6 81
and impeccable.
was denied."
The alternative writ
DUTCHER IS DEAD
Philanthropist Whose Invalidism Gave
Him National Fame
(Associated Press)
Fennville, Mich., Oct. 7. Florence
L. Dutcher, 52 years of age, an in
valid of national fame wa3 buried
here today. He was a wealthy phil
anthropist, blind, paralyzed ;and un
able to open his mouth. One of his
teeth had been broken out to admit
nourishment. .
death, we tender our heartfelt thanks
and assurance that your kindness and
devotion to our dear departed one is
a lasting memory and 'solace to each
of us, in a loss that is hard to bear.
Most sincerely,
Wm. D. Taylor.
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Taylor. -Mr.
and Mrs. James Taylor.
Margaret and Mamie Taylor.
Mr. and Mrs. George MacKay.
ATLANTA WOMAN WON ,. '
front.
RUMANIANS REPULSED
Turning on the advancing Ruman
ians, the Austro-German troops, in
Transylvania, defeated the invaders
decisively along a fifty . mile front.
According to Berlin, the Rumanians
are retreating north of Fogaras and
at: the juncture of the Hamered and
Alt rivers, near. Reps. Bucharest ad
from Roumania against Bulgaria
than for operations in the opposite
direction, especially if the Bulgarians
fulfilled their agreement, made in the
treaty of Bucharest of three years
ago, to dismantle and raze the forti
hcations of : Rustchuk, Shumla , and
Baltchik. So true is this observation,
that the ancient Romans in the davs
of Trajan - had decided to close this vegetaBles, $75.
OTMr ITITTOOlAn h .n.VlTTatT ttr vnnna I XO tne CanT.lT.f'
but send in a record. No matter how
small the yield, we want a well kept
record. -We hope you have made a
profit. ' '
The Jacksonville Chamber of Com
merce makes the following offer for
their fair to be held in December:
To the canning club girls who send
in the best exhibit of canned fruits.
preserves, jellies, vinegars and canned
club girls who send
GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS - Te withtow wal!s to Pct the Roman empire tie Second best exhibit oi canned
(Associated Press)
before superior forces in the region
of Fogaras. The Austro-Germans in
Boston, Oct. 7. Alexa Stirling, of this5 section were led hv vn
Atlanta, won the woman's' national Falkenhayn. . .
1 J . T - m f m ' . m - I .. - , .
goix cnampionsnip today, deteatmg ln the- Dobrudja heavy
Mildred Caverly two and one.
SIX BALLOONS
HAD A GOOD START I
fighting
continues with Bucharest recording
advances for the Rumanians and Rus
sians on the center and. left of the
line. ...
Race Began at Muskogee to Establish
a New Record -
SOLD SIX CARS
(Associated Press)
Muskogee, Okla, . Oct. , 7. Good
weather today favored the start of six
balloons in the international race in & second-MaxwelL
an enort to DreaK tne long distance
record.. ,
The Ocala Maxwell agency, R. R,
Carroll owner, sold and delivered six
Maxwell cars for the week ending to
day, Saturday. The cars were sold to:
Jake Brown,' city, who purchased
against the barbarians.
The position- and fortunes of the
army of Prussians, Bulgarians and
Turks under Field Marshal von Mac
Kenzen,"' ostensibly dealing an offen
sive blow for the destruction of Rou
mania, and in reality endeavoring to
stay the invasion of the army of Rus
sians, Koumanians and Serbians, are
therefore of intense concern to all ob-
servers in the Teutontic countries, and
it is realized that on them may hang
the early decision of the war. One
fruits, preserves, jellies, vinegars and
canned vegetables, $25.
To the county sending the best ex
hibit from not less than ten girls, $100.
To the county sending the second
best exhibit from not less than ten
girls, $25. V
Some girl will get that $75, and it
is only the girls who try, who ever
win. iNow is the time to prepare for
this exhibit. We can safely promise
to sell all of your products at a reas
onable price, if they are of excellent
point of great importance is being I quality.
freely admitted, namely, that all hope You know Mrs. Okie Painter Will
of taking the Russian-Roumanian iams' offer of a gold watch to the first
forces in the Dobrudja by surprise is prize winner in 'each county. Mrs.
now gone and that operations hence-1 Williams has given fifty-one girls gold
CONGRESSMAN CLARK
, . IS AT HOME
USEFUL INFORMATION
FIFTH INNING
For All Who Want to Send Mail to the
Soldier Boys on the Frontier '
Hdq. 2nd Fla. Regt., Oct. 2, 1916.
Editor Star: Will you kindly pub-
Grooklyn: Olson was thrown out byllish the . following information for
j rd at first. Meyers- drove a long those desiring to communicate with
no to center field. Walker lost members of the Second Florida In-
in the sun and made a triple. Mar- fahtry. All mail should be addressed
Ii ard out second to first, Meyers held to - --Co. Second Florida
third. Myers to bat but was out Infantry, Laredo, Texas. Regiment
a pop fly to short. No runs, one leaves today. Officers and men in good
t. M frrnril ' .health Anil Snfrifa V.vamrn-nn roniinot
Boston: Hooper doubled to center, led to send me magazines and papers.
J, Hooper taking third. Walker made. Reading matter will be much
i.led to left, scoring Hooper. Hob- appreciated. Respectfully, "
1 out at first, unassisted, WTalker
ing second. Lewis hit to third but
lker was out at third, Mowry tag-
Lucien A. Spencer, -Chaplain
Second Florida Infantry.
Laredo, Texas.
(Gainesville Sun) ,
Congressman Frank Clark arrived
home yesterday from Washington and
was accompanied by Mrs. Clark. : Mr.
Clark has " many warm personal
friends in the city who will be glad to
see him and learn from him his, views
of the national political situation. Mr.
Clark has been "making some speeches
for Mr. Wilson, and there are few men
better posted than he.
NOTICE
Pursuant the delay occasioned by
time required to secure the new char
ter, the adjourned meeting of ; the
stockholders of the Marion . County
Fair Association will be held at the
board of trade rooms, Tuesday, Oc
tober 10th, at 2 p. m.
Please be prompt as Mr. Duval
must meet another engagement at 3
p. m.
.Use Juba Self-Rising Flour for de
licious hot biscuits. At all grocers.
14 lbs. sugar for $1 with one dol
lar's worth of other groceries on Sat
urday and Monday. Smith Grocery Co.
Harry Peter, Dunnellon.
G. A. Camp, Oklawahav
Oscar Andrews, Ocala.
J. P. Hathcox, Martel.
Jose Giles, Ocala.
.Twelve new Maxwell touring cars
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
. WTalnut Meat, Pecan Meat, Shelled
Almonds, Fresn Cocoanuts, Canned
v. v..vl .u.u. u vU, oouiwu,, arnvea ior tne ucaia agency,
ix. x. atate iream ineese, rimento Six of them were unloaded this aft
Cheese, Swiss Cheese and Roquefort ernoon and the other six will be un
Cheese, New Cranberries, Salt ,White loaded next week.
Fish, Sail Mackerel, Genuine Codfish These cars' are the new, deep up
Waffles, Soft Shelled Walnuts, Pine- hclstered, longer spring and new type
apple ; Cheese, Philadelphia Cream windshield models, with a number of
Cheese, Finnan .Haddie in glass, other improvements, including gaso
Smoked Pork Sausage, Sausage in oil, lme gauges and dash r lights. The
Cold Boiled Ham, Chipped Dried Beef, price remains the same, $650 deliver-
fcrward must be conducted practical
ly in the open. This fact is not en
couraging to the Prussians, as their
! resources in men and material are be
lieved to be greatly inferior to those
opposing them.
MOVING PICTURE FEATURES
Minced Ham, German Salomi, Pan
cake Flour, Graham; and Whole Weat
Flour, Creamed - Chicken a la King,
Beef Stew, Tuna Fish, Heinz Sauer
Kraut with Pork, Dill Pickles, Sour
Cucumber Pichles, Sweet Mixed
ed at Ocala.
ni vine : v
Irvine, Oct. 4. Dr. and Mrs. J. L.
Davis returned , Saturday from a six
ickles, Japanese Rice Cakes, Sun-1 - n . &
c - w- o.jTj Keeks visit in Hot Springs, Ark.
shine Sugar Wafers, Dates, . Seeded
Miss Mamie Fant is home again.
Instead of Marie Doro in "The
Lash," as announced, Blanch Sweet
and Theodore Roberts will be seen
here this afternoon and 'tonight in
"The Storm, another Lasky feature.
Miss Sweet appears as a half wild,
fun-lbving daughter of a retired pro
f essor who is so - submerged in", his
studies that he permits his daughter
to run at will in the Maine summer
resort where, they live. 1 -
Billie Burke will be seen in Ocala
for , the first time Monday, when she
appears as the star in the Triangle j
watches. ' No girl who wins one Is
eligible for a watch' the second year.
No girl i3 eligible for the state prize
of $100, who has an irrigation plant
on her plot. This college i3 going to
present certificates to those girl3 who
have been club members of good sand
ing for four years. There are not
many to receive these certificates thi3
year, but we hope many of you who
are club members will continue in the
work long enough to receive certifl-
cates. . ..- .
We are happy that more Florida
! girls are joining every year, and that
you are working hard to save the sur
plus fruit3 and vegetables, to study
home making, and to become helpful
daughters. . Yours with best wishes,
Agnes Ellen Harriss,
State Home Demonstration Agent.
NOTICE
Raisins, Preserved Skinless Figs, and lhliyhig spent scvcral weeks with ?ay ture, -Peggy - The pic-
friends and relatives in Ocala, Fant-
a hundred and one other items too
numerous to mention will be found .at Ule, Blitchton and Morriston.
me j. jx. xeapot urocery. vau and
see us.v ' 2t
Mrs. Sue Mclver is the guest of Dr.
Davis and family. '
Mr. and Mrs. Dug Fant and chil
dren of Flemington visited Irvine
EASTERN STARS
Regular meeting of Ocala Chapter! Sunday.
No. 29, O. E. S., will be. Monday, Oct.1 The Irvine school i3 progressing
9th, 7:30 p. m., instead of Thursday jnicely under the management of Miss
on account of the Masonic school of j Jane Thorpe of Thomasville, Ga.
instruction. After the meeting a re
ception will be held, having as honor
guests Messrs. James Conneli, Walter
Scott and Marcus Endell, the instruc
tors of tho Masonic school. :
Flower seeds and bulbs of all kind3
at the Ocala Seed Store. .
We do not charge you credit prices,
for we sell for cash only. Brine your
For delicious hot biscuits use Juba I pocket or check book. Little's Shoe
Self-Rising Flour. At all grocers. 6t Parlor. 27-tf
ture was produced under the personal
direction of Thomas II. Ince, who pro
duced "Civilization' how running in
New York. The incidental music is
by Victor Schertzinger. The -story
has to do with Peggy Cameron, a
lively member of New York's ex
clusive set, and her escapades in
Woodkirk, in the Scottish highlands.
Fairies play an important part in the
story. ' : ' . --
FOR A 3IUDDY COMPLEXION
Blalock Brothers, 107 Oklawaha
avenue,, have established a curb gaso
line filling station. Open from G a. m.
to 9:30 p. m. . 6-lm
Tak6 Chamberlain's Tablets and
adopt a diet of vegetables and cereals.
Take outdoor exercise daily and your
complexion will be greatly improved
within a few months. Try it. Obtain
able everywhere. .
We have a new perfume, Bouquet
Dozira, a fine lasting extract, $2 per
ounce, uengs. ti
The largest line or millinery ever
displayed in Ocala i3 now to be seen
at Affleck, Millinery Parlor, Ocala
House block. tf
For delicious hot biscuits use Juba
Self-Rising Flour. At all grocers. 6t
1 Everything is of the very latest at
the Affleck Millinery Parlor, Ocala
House block. tf
