tirritorial Library! 09
Cowntii
Mmtt
vol. xxxivr
KINGMAN, ARIZONA, OCTOBER 7, 1916
NO. 51.
ODY
IS
c
KEYSTONE
The Keystone has entered a big body
of ore on the 300-foot level, the cross
cut having already entered seven feet
of high grade. The ore was encoun
tered when the management con
cluded to crosscut into the hanging
wall of the vein, near the station level,
and found that what was supposed to
be the wall was really the big vein
of the mine. On the 100-foot level
a shoot of ore six feet wide was ex
posed, which gave a general average
of $40 in gold and silver. This ore
was extracted and milled by J. E.
Spurr, who was then manager of the
property. Mr. Spurr is now professor
of mathematics of the University of
Michigan. His son is employed in sur
veying the property.
The Keystone is one of the oldest
properties in the county, having been
worked since 1871, in which year it
was located by "Keystone" Clark and
others. The first ores taken from the
property were rich in gold and silver,
some of the handsomest specimens of
wire gold, interwoven with wire sil
ver, having been taken from above the
100 level. The general character of
the ore then, as now, is ruby silver,
the newly opened ore body being heav-
ily impregnated with the handsome
red mineral.
The Keystone was recently taken
over by G. S. Holmes and associates
and is being operated under the name
of the Silver Keystone Mining com
pany. The company is erecting a mill
for the reduction of its ores, the plant
being put in under a guarantee that
it will make a high recovery.
L
IS
The Oatman school is filled to the
overflowing with pupils. It is ex-
pected that the new school building
will be completed by January 1.
Two teachers are taking care of
the 130 pupils, and this number is
increasing daily. Another teacher has
been engaged and will take up her
duties, in a building which will be
leased by the school board to relieve
the congestion temporarily.
The erection of the new school
building will be started as soon as the
recently voted bonds are sold.
At Old Trails the school building is
filled to capacity, but it is not over
crowded.
In the Oatman school it is an im
possibility to care for all of the pupils
at one time. Consequently, they have
been divided and half attend in the
morning and the others in the afternoon.
OF HEART FAILURE
Charles B. Eaton succumbed to an
attack of heart afilure yesterday at
McConnico. He had complained of
feeling badly and his brother sent for
Dr. Tilton at this place but before the
physician arrived he died. The de
ceased was 66 years old. He had only
been a resident of McConnico for sev
eral months past.
Coroner Cohenour empaneled a jury.
went to JilcUonmco ana field an in
quest. After the jurors had viewed
the remains Undertaker Van Marter
brought them into his parlors here.
The coroner's jury returned a ver
dict to the effect that death was due
to heart failure.
I
IS
Fred Kelly, formerly superintendent
of the Bi-Metallic mine in Montana,
which has a record of yielding $33,
"000,000 in dividends is now in charge
of the Keystone mine at Mineral Park.
He is rated by mining men as one
of the best in his profession. The
work at the property sow under his
charge is proceeding rapidly.
OFFICERS ELECTED
BI VICTOR COPPER
The stockholders of the Victor Cop
per company on Tuesday held a meet
ing' at which the following officers
were elected:
President, William Grant; vice
president, C. W. Herndon; secretary,
S. W. Klass; general manager, W. W.
Lewis.
A complete survey ot the property
was recently completed and a typo
graphical map will be made so
The company proposes to open up the
property by means of tunnels which
will give "backs" of 800 to 1000 feet
on the main vein. In the main tun
nel an average of 3 per cent copper
ore has been uncovered for a distance
of 25 feet. Crosscutting either wall
of the vein has not yet been undertaken.
Amended locations have been made
on all of the 18 claims of the com
pany preparatory to making applica
tion for patents.
It is the intention of the company
to list its stock upon the New York
curb. The Eegistrar and Transfer
company of 120 Broadway, New York,
has been appointed as transfer agents
of the company. As required by the
New York curb steel engraved stock
certificates have been obtained by the
company.
The property is located in the
Wallapai mountains, 12 miles south
east of Kingman. Its offices are in
Kingman.
E VOTES TO
E
IS
T
ON 300-FOOT LEVEL
From Oatman Section Daily Mlner.l
At the Oatman Amalgamated drift
ing continues east and west on the
300-foot level. Both drifts are in ap
proximately 60 feet and good progress
is being made. A difficulty being
experienced that is unique in this dis
trict. Iron is so plentiful that it is
difficult to drill to any depth in a
down hole. After the drills have
reached a depth of a few inches the
iron concentrates settle in the bottom
of a hole in such quantities that they
form a cushion to the drill and it is
practically impossible at times to
drill more than a very short hole.
When the hole "muds" properly the
concentrates may be taken out with
"spoon" but if the hole has much
water in it then the "spooning" is a
failure.
In the east drift it is expected that
the main vein will be reached at a
distance of 200 feet from the shaft.
In the west drift it is calculated that
it will take approximately 300 feet
of drifting to reach the vein.
DELIVERS LECTURE
J. E. Russell, a Prescott attorney,
gave a lecture to the people of King
man at the Elks' hall last evening on
the Prohibition amendments. Mr.
Russell is one of the foremost expon
ents of prohibition of the state and is
an able talker. He instructed the
voters on the "whys" and "where
fores" of the amendments in great detail.
From Oatman Section Daily Miner.
A special meeting of the stockhold
ers of the Sunnyside Mining company
was held yesterday in Kingman, being
called, for the purpose of voting on
an increase of the capital stock and
the transaction of other important
business. P. M. Mullin. W. H. Flan
nigan and other large shareholders
of the company were present
The stockholders voted to increase
the capitalization for the purpose of
financing the company in a larger
way, and also transacted ether busi
ness in connection with the future
operation of the property of the com
pany.
The Sunnyside company is the own-
of some of the most Important
property in the Oatman field and has
been consistently developing its hold
ings. With a larger treasury the ma
nagement will be enabled to continue
the development to a successful con
clusion. Messrs. Flannigan and Mul
len have been factors in the develop
ment of the company's holdings and
will probably continue in their present
capacities.
816 LODE WORKING
E
er
MPORTANT NOTICE
TO MINE OPERATORS
The Northern Arizona Fair commis
sion is making earnest requests for
mineral collection from Mohave
county for exhibition at the fair to
be held in Prescott, October 19. The
county supervisors, as well as the
mining people of this county, believe
that specimens of ore will be of great
interest to thousands of peopde Tvho
are interested in mining and the re
sult will be great good to Mohave
county.
All superintendents, managers, own
ers and possessors of samples and
large specimens from their properties
are requested to send them to King
man not later than October 14, and
to leave them at the Blue Line Trans
fer office, next door to the Arizona
Central bank.
The exhibit will also be displayed
at the state fair in Phoenix with ad
ditional collections, the week begin
ning November 13.
Let us all respond to this call and
boost for our individual districts and
county.
A. M. MacDUFFEE,
County Mineral Commissioner.
(From Oatman Section Daily Miner.)
The Oatman Big Lode Mining com
pany has increased its working force
and development work will be rushed
with all possible speed until the 600-
foot point in the shaft is reached. At
the same time crosscutting to the vein
on the 100-foot level will be carried on.
Like the majority of Oatman prop
erties, the Big Lode was for a time
short of funds and operations were
reduced during the summer. The prop
erty now is well financed.
At present the shaft is down 100
feet and a crosscut is being run at
that depth to the vein which is about
200 feet distant. At each succeeding
100-foot level a crosscut will be run
to the vein, or veins, there being two
of them. At a depth of 90 feet in the
shaft a stringer was cut which as
sayed $4 a ton.
IS MADE
IN TOFTE PROPERTY
AT MINERAL
HEARINGS HELD ON
OF MAN'S
PARTI MAKES SPEECH
BULLET MEANT FOR RAT
GOES THROUGH WINDOW
Jack Kohnke made a complaint to
the sheriff's office last night that
some one had shot through the kitchen
window of his residence during the
early part of the evening. Upon in
vestigation it was found that a small
boy of the neighborhood was respon
sible. The bullet had been aimed at
rat.
FIRE FIGHTERS OF CAMP
TO GIVE BENEFIT DANCE
The Oatman fire department will
give a dig dance on the evening of
October 14. It is the purpose of the
department members to raise funds
to pay the debt recently contracted
through the purchase of a fire belL
The fire laddies have given several en-
oyable dances, but they declare that
the one coming up will surpass all
previous events. I
From Thunday Daily Mlnerl
Rose Winslow of the National
Woman's Party, spoke to a large aud
lence at the corner of Front and
Fourth street last evening. Her sup
posed theme was "Justice For The
Woman Who Toils", but to her listen
ers it appeared that her topic should
have been "Down With The Tyrant,
Wilson."
Her whole time and attention was
given to a tirade against the Presi
dent and all of his actions. The prin
cipal crime of which she accused him
was his failure to give the time con
sumed by consideration of such trivial
matters as the European war, threat
ened railroad strike and the like to
rushing a bill through congress for
the national enfranchisement of
women.
Miss Winslow passed the hat to
offset the impression that she was in
the hire of the Republican party, but
if the fair lady is not she is over
looking some bets, as it would be a
mighty poor politician who would not
be willing to pay for the boosting for
the Republicans she offered to her
listeners last night. With all due
respect to the lady's ability as a
speaker, it would take a better spell
binder than she to make the wage
earners of America believe that Presi
dent Wilson is not their friend.
Retimbering of the old shaft of the
Molly Gibson-Bullion Beck is under
way. This old property, a former pro
ducer of considerable wealth, has lain
idle for a number of years and people
here are glad that it is about to take
a new lease on life.
Corporation Commissioner F. A.
Jones held a hearing at Oatman Wed
nesday on a petition of automobile
drivers and owners for a regulation of
the fares to be charged between Oat
man and Kingman and Oatman and
Needles, or rather Topock and the
Colorado river. The impression gain
ed was that a recommendation would
be made to establish the present rate
of fares between the various points,
but that automobiles running from
Kingman will be restrained from tak
ing passengers through to the Colo
rado river, or to hire out by the day
to take passengers to given points in
the mining country surrounding Oat
man. Truck drivers will not carry pas
sengers on their trucks or enter into
competition with regular passenger
carrying machines.
At Kingman yesterday the matter
of the Chloride Electric Light & Power
company against the Desert Power &
Water company was heard. The form
er company objects to the entry of the
latter company into its field, its fran
chise from the county covering that
particular town, while it is question
able whether or not the latter com
pany has a franchise. The matter will
be taken up by the commission later
and a decision rendered.
The Arizona, California & Nevada
Telephone & Telegraph company had
made two applications for an increase
in rates, based, supposedly on new
equipment and a proposed better ser
vice. The company put up its case,
there apparently being no opposition
by the people. The first rate increase
called for October 1 to January 1, and
the other 30 days after adoption until
January 1, 1917.
Regarding this service the Mohave
Daily Miner desires to say that when
ever the company can give an ade
quate service there will be no com
plaint regarding the putting into ef
fect of rates similar to those of other
parts of the state for like service. So
far the service has not been commen
surate with the rate charged; in fact,
it has at all times been unsatisfac
tory. Should the rebuilt lines in King
man be what is claimed for them the
people are entitled to pay for the ser
vice they tret The Miner takes it
that there will be no rebuilding of
the long distance lines and, therefore,
it also takes it that no readjustment of
the tolls over these lines will be made.
Frank Tofte brought some rich ore
into camp Wednesday from a strike
made on his property at Mineral Park.
GAMP IS GROWING
(From Oatman Section Daily Miner.)
Oatman is again assuming the
business appearance that was so evi
dent a year ago. The business Louses
are rushed with orders for mining
supplies and ,the necessities of life.
The ore carries copper, silver and gold Full working forces are employed in
and will easily run $500 per ton. The all stores and the outlook is bright,
extent of the strike is yet to be de- A constant string of teams and trucks
te named. are pouring into town heavily laden
The strike was made in a winze with supplies and equipment. New
from a drift on the 60-foot level of faces are again appearing in large
the shaft The ore exhibited is so rich numbers and a boom is on.
in the red metal that when scratched
with a knife it looks like pure metal.
The strike was made on the "Dutch
Joe" claim which is owned by Tofte,
Andy Brown and Joe Strotsker.
VISIT TO ARIZONA
BUTTE PROPERTIES
Most of the mines and developing
properties are running with a full
crew. Others are resuming and put
ting on larger working forces. At
the Boundary Cone a new shift ring
been added and development is pro
gressing with all possible speed. A
large dump of milling ore is being
added to each day, and the time is
not far distant when the Boundary
Cone will erect a mill. All surface
improvements being made are of a
permanent nature, and the manage
ment is very optimistic regarding the
future.
Many other properties in the
Tim Reardon and Hugh Campbell
OT r lao-starr. who nrs hpnm v in-
terested in the Arizona Butte Mines neighborhood of the Boundary Cone
company yesterday visited that prop- have recently increased their work-
erty in company with J. E. Leeper fV, BUU uevelo""eat 13 ueu
and I. M. George. They were Pushed to the limit
prised with the great progress Mana- L one amerence
ger H. M. Crowther has made in uclwcc" "1C pim. ana ooom oi
development work at the property and V ag "-13 Pence oi am
the manner in which the big mill is ple money Prosecue operations. A
turnintr out concentrate. TW 7 aK &eTe was a"ns of operat-
brought back with them a large nam- " Properties whose management
ber of handsome chunks of ore from P", , . 'T" ou uays
the Banner mine for ehihitinn nt aneaa, so iar as nnances was con-
Prescott and Phoenix. kerned. This one thing did more to
The bio- tnnnel nn the Prince r. PTe district a black: eye with the
w0w . . xt tir -i
vein, which is destined to open the I "uulue. "eBl.ur mo auyuuK ee.
mines of Stockton Hill at depth, is lany investors oi smau means put
now in about 170 feet and is being their money lnto PPm which
turned into the vein, in which ore is not financed sufficiently and in
expected to be opened at any time. OTch, lfc a short time
This tunnel is the one best bet of the s"1 PP61163 cIosed down- 0
Arizona Butte and Kinsman nenle conrse tfie investors in such prop-
are vitally interested in its future
MINING MACHINERY FOR
IOWA REACHES KINGMAN
A 60-horsepower steam boiler has
arrived in Kingman for the Iowa Min
ing company. It will be hauled from
there to the Iowa mine by Lovin &
Withers' teams in the next few days.
In the shipment there is also a pump
and other equipment for the property.
bulking at the Iowa is being ham
pered by a large flow of water. After
the arrival and installation of the
pumping equipment sinking will be
prosecuted with all possible speed. At
present crosscutting is being carried
on above the water level.
Hardware and furnishing stores
have done a rushing business the past
lew days, due to the recent cool weath
er which made everyone think of Jack
frost
ENTERS DISTRICT
From Oatman Section Dally Mlner.l
The Amalgamated Extension Min
ing company is the latest corporation
to enter in the Oatman-Goldroad dis
trict The property of the new com
pany is situated directly north of the
Oatman Amalgamated and adjoins it
The surface indications are good and
the management of the new company
is making arrangements to do a large
amount of development work.
The incorporators are all well known
Oatman men. The officers are: J. H.
erties were not total losers if they
held their stocks until the resumption
of operations, but many of them sold
and called Oatman a "wild cat" min
ing town. Many operators learned
that a shaft could not be sunk to a
depth of 500 or 600 feet without am
ple funds. The investors learned to
investigate the standing of the ma
nagement before investing. In the
past year the majority of these con
ditions have been remedied.
BY OATMAN UNITED
(From Oatman Section Daily Miner.)
Sinking was resumed at the Oatman
Drake, president; James Curtam, vice- be pusied th all speed until a
president; H. H Burt, secretary-treas- depth of 600 feet is reached. Atpres-
urer, who, with I. V. Parker, consti- ent sinking will be done by hand steel,
tute the board of directors. w . , i ,i. , en .
Officers of the new company state U, -,,,-, y,n Tr;
that steps are bing taken to finance -ni arrivfi this wppV. With it in.!
the property, and that work will be stallation work will go forward with
started as soon as machinery and machine drills.
equipment can be placed on it The Oatman United has been closed
down for some time dnrinp- which time
A station has been cut on the 160- the uroDertv has been well financed
foot level of the Schnectady. It is and its development to the depth
the intention of the management to named is assured. Ben W. McCloskev.
install the new compressor next week, who is well and favorably known in
a gooa grade or ore is exposed on this iHctn ;t,o. nf ni
both sides of the shaft and in the bot
tom. At the present time the com
pany is working two shifts but as soon
as the compressor is in operation an
other shift will be added.
as a
ability, is in charge of the work.
Before the close-down the Oatman
United installed all required machin
ery except a compressor.
The property is situated north and
east of the Tom Reed, and adjoins
J. E. Terral of the Chloride Electric that property.
bupply company says he has wired 250 Many other nroDerties will resume
houses in anticipation of the early ar- operations this month, among them
rival of the "juice." Mr. Terral esti- the Tom Reed Junior, under the ma-
mates that there are yet 100 houses nagement of C. H. James.
to be wired which means that when
the Desert Power & Water company
enters Chloride it will have 150 more
customers than its first estimatecov-
ered. Chloride is growing faster than
any camp in Mohave county.
MOHAVE LUMBER CO.
E
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TO
GIVE DANCE TO RAISE FUNDS
The Mohave Lumber company is
here to stay. Work on a warehouse
22x152 feet has ripen started Tvd- rVvn-
The first dance on the Central La- tractor n C. Wiiiinmo n,
bor union pavilion in its new location will contain not only "a lumber shed,
on Main street next to the Oatman hut nn nffico n-nA n.rohc ci r
hotel, will be given on the evening of Doty, the new manager, is one of the
October 11. The dance will be given hustling members of the local business
under the auspices of the Oatman community .and under his able and en-
Chamber of Commerce to raise funds ereetie direction the rn -u.
for the payment of bills contracted for will no doubt stand up among the
the Oatman fire department leaders.
