II I
lead S7.007.10; spelter, $10.00; cop. -4 7 L WW f Portion Showers Tonight and Sun- ifl
per, $27.2528.50. P J day In Northern Portion; Colder To.
- . . r n3ht WItn Frost In West Portion.
ZZZZZZZZZZZZ! ' FEARLEsa, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. I I
' F6rty'5lXth YeaN- 241' PHcc nve cent. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAYEVENING, OCTOBERJ Entered as second-C,aa8 Matter at the Poetofflce, 0fldBn, Utah. 1
I Boston Defeats Brooklyn, 6 to 5 1 1
Allies on Offensive
on the Balkan Front
Are Gaining Ground
Berlin, Oct. 27, via London, 4:26 p. m. Teutonic troops have
made progress on the entente front in eastern Transylvania, accord-
ing- to an official statement issued today by the German army head
quarters. Ground has also been gained by the forces of the central
: powers near Orsova.
; London, Oct. 7, 3 :50 p. m. A fresh Rumanian expedition is said
I , to have crossed the river Danube into Bulgaria, according to a wire-
; less message from Rome. Field Marshal von Mackensen, the German
commander, is said to have sent troops to attack the Rumanian force,
1 but without success.
! Petrograd, Oct. 7, via London, 1:34 p. m. The Russo-Rumanian
offensive in Dobrudja is being successfully pressed, the war office an-
j nounced today. The capture of two towns on this front and a ridge
connecting them is reported,
Petrograd, Oct. 7, via London, 11.41 a. m. German troops yes
" ; terday made four consecutive counter-atatacks in an effort to recap-
ture ground lost to the Russians on the Ceniuvka and Zlota Lipa riv-
ers, in Galicia, says the official statement issued today bythe Russian
war department, but each time the attackers were repelled with heavy
losses.
London, Oct. 7, 2 p. m. British forces operating on the east bank
of the Struma, on the Macedonian front, have pressed the Bulgarians
further back, the war office announced today. Several additional vil
lages have been occupied by the British.
The entente campaign against Mon
i astir, in southern Serbia, is develop
ing rapidly. "While allied forces have
pressed to within not much more than
a half dozen miles from Monastlr on
the south, the Serbians have advanced
northwest from Kaimakcalan on the
i western slopes of the Nldje ridge.
: Here they are reported to have
reached a point only about sixteen
- miles cast ofMonastlr . . -
The TLusso-Rumanian attacks on
Field Marshal von Mackensen's forces
in Dobrudja are proving abortive,
Sofia declares. The repulse of assaults
on the Bulgarians and their allies
along the line south of the Constanza
Tchernavoda railway is reported.
The French front in the Somme
region of northern Franco remains in
1 a state of comparative quiet. The
only movement by the French within
the past day or two has been to the
east of Bouchavesnes, where Paris has
reported a slight advance in the di
rections of Moislalnes.
French Join Serbs and British.
Paris, Oct 7 Noon Tho French
troops on tho Macedonian front have
joined the offensive with tho British
and Serbians, The war office reports
the occupation by the French of the
town of German, on Lake Presba.
The Serbians continuing their ad
vance north of Kaimakcalan height
have reached the valley of the Bela
Voda, a tributary of the Cerna.
The British troops which crossed
the Struma and occupied Nevolyen,
have repulsed a violent counter at-
tack of the Bulgarians.
oo
;: HOLDUP ADMITS
WRECKING TRAIN
Declares His Accomplices
Were Railroad Men Em
ployed in Detroit.
i" Detroit, Mich., Oct 7. James Med-
skar, also -known as James Alexander,
who was brought here from St Louis
last night, has confessed, police de-
' clare, that ho was one of three men
who held up the New York-Chicago
Express on the Michigan Central rail
road near Detroit in September. The
prisoner will bo turned over to fed-
i oral officials.
,: I Medskar, It was said, gave the po
j lice the names of two accomplices,
who are being sought.
' In his confession, Medskar declared
i : his accomplices were railroad men,
and that he recently was employed as
a switchman In Detroit. When they
S slopped the train, Medskar, according
C to his story, uncoupled the engine
l while his accomplices look two pack-
, ages of registered mall. While in the
? mail car, "O'Nell" loBt his pistol,
h Medskar declared. The robbers, loot
ing the mail In the woods nearby, ob
; ; taincd about $800. Thoy then returned
: i to Detroit
I; oo
Read the Classified Ads. I
I Read the Classified Ads,
Appears at Newport
Armed, on a Mission
Not Disclosed.
Newport, R. I., Oct. 7. -A German
submarine arrived In the harbor hero
this afternoon. This announcement
was made by the navy radio station
here.
The U-53 Jb a man of war, flies the
flag of the German navy and has a
single gun mounted on her deck.
The submarine anchored in the
outer harbor two miles down the bay.
No one came ashore, but a representa
tive of the Associated Press was al
lowed to go aboard and learn the ves
sel's story.
The TJ-53 will go outside the harbor
for anchorage during the night
I The U-53, in command of Lieuten-ant-Captain
Hans Rose, appeared
spick and span upon her arrival hero
which looked as if sho had been
bought only for maneuvers. Her com
mander reported that ho had not sight
ed any hostilo craft on his voyage
over, adding that the boat was plentl
fully supplied with provisions and fuel
and that nothing would be taken
aboard hero.
Shortly after submersible came in,
Commander Rose paid an official call
upon Rear Admiral Austin M. Knight,
commandant of tho Narragansett bay
naval station, to whom ho stated that
he was preparing to leave port to
night Commander Rose explained that the
submarino, which is a regular war ves
sel and equipped with wireless, had
put in here only to deliver official mail
for tho German ambassador. Ho de
clined to say whether he had been or
dered to American waters to search
for the German merchant submarino
Bremen, long overdue on this Bide.
oo .
Read the Classified Ads.
oo
Read tho Classified Ads.
oo
Read the Classified Ads.
Brooklyns Give the Bos
tons a Scare in the
Ninth Inning.
Braves Field, Boston, Mass., Oct
7. The Boston Americans triumphed
over tho Brooklyn Nationals in the
first" game of tho world's series here
this afternoon by a score of 6 to 5.
The Boston's victory was threatened
In the last inning when Shore weak
ened and had to be taken from the
box. Over 40,000 persons saw the
contest which was marked by bril
liant fielding on the part of the vic
tors and weak defense on the part of
tho Brooklyns. Marquard started in
the box for Brooklyn but his defense
completely crumbled in the seventh
inning when a couple of errors and a
hit gave Boston three runs and a
safe lead.
The official box score:
BROOKLYN
AB. R. H. PO. A. E.
Myers, cf 5 0 2 1 0 0
Daubert lb 4 0 0 5 1 0
Stengel, rf 4 2 2 1 0 1
Wheat, If 4 1 2 3 0 0
Cutshaw, 2b 3 1 0 6 2 1
Mowrey, 3b 3 1 1 1 2 0
Olson, --ss-...ii:wr.-4 01- 21- 2
Meyers, c 4 0 1 6 3 0
Marquard, p. . .- 2 0 0 0 0 0
Johnston 1 0 1 0 0 0
Pfelffer, p 0 0 0 0 0 0
Merklo 0 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 34 5 10 24 9 4
Batted for Marquard in ninth.
Batted for Pfelffer in ninth.
BOSTON.
AB. R. H. PO. A. E.
Hooper, rf 4 2 1 1 1 0
Janvrin, 2b 4 1 2 2 8 1
Walker, cf. '. 4 1 2 0 0 0
Hoblitzel, lb 5 2 1 14 0 0
Lewis. If 3 0 1 0 0 0
Gardner, 3b 4 0 1 1 3 0
Scott, S3 2 0 0 2 4 0
Cady, c 1 0 0 7 0 0
Thomas, c 0 0 0 0 0 0
Shore, p 4 0 0 0 3 0
Mays, p 0 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 31 6 8 27 19 1
SCORE BY INNINGS.
Brooklyn 000 100 0045
Boston 001 010 31x 6
SUMMARY.
Two-base hits Lewis, Hooper,
Janvrin. Three-base hits Walker,
Hoblitzel. Wheat, Meyers. Sacrifice
hits Scott, Janvrin, Lewis. Sacrifice
fly Scott Double plays Janvrin,
Scott and Hoblltzell; 'Hooper and
Cady; Gardner, Janvrin and" Hoblit
zel; Shore, Scott, Janvrin, Hoblit
zel. Left on bases Brooklyn 6, Bos
jton 11. First base on errors Brook
lyn 1, Boston 3. Bases on balls Off
Marquard 4; Pfeiffer 2; Shore 3. Hits
and earned runs Off Marquard. 7
hits, 3 runs in 7 innings; off Pfelffer,
1 hit 1 run in 1 innings off Shore. 9
hits 2 runB in 8 2-3 innings; off Mays.
1 hit 1 run in 1-3 inning. Hit by
pitcher By Shore (Cutshaw). Struck
out by Marquard, 6; by Shore, 5.
Passed ball Meyers. Umpires
Plate, Connolly; bases, O'Day; left
field, Quigley; right field, Dlnecn.
Time 2:1G.
GAME BY INNINGS.
First Innlna-
First Half Myers up. Umpire Con
nolly ordered all photographers from
the field. This caused some delay.
Meyers fouled out to Cady on the
first ball pitched. Tho batter hit at
a high inshoot. Daubert up. Strike
one. Strike two. Daubert swung at
a ball far' wide of the plate. Strike
three. Daubert fanned on three
pitched balls. Stengel up. Strike
one. Ball one. Stengel went out
Janvrin to Hoblitzel. No runs, no hits,
no errors.
Second Half Hooper up. Only sev
en balls wore pitched by Shore In the
first half. Ball one. Ball two. Strike
one. Strike two. Foul ball. Hooper
struck out Janvrin up. Strike one.
Strike two. Janvrin fanned. Mar
quard worked deliberately and cooly
and kept the ball on the inside cor
ner of the plate. Walker up. Strike
one. Walker drove a long hit to the
left center fence for three bases. Fast
fielding kept it from being a home-
run. Hoblitzel up. Ball one. Ball
two. Cutshaw threw out Hoblitzel at
first. No runs, one hit, no errors.
Second Inning.
First Half Wheat up. Ball one.
Wheat scratched on infield hit to
ward first base. Cutshaw up. Ball
one. Ball -two. Ball three. Strike
one. Cutshaw hit into a double play,
Janvrin to Scott to Hoblitzel. Mow
rey up. Ball one. Strike one. Ball
two. Strike two. Ball three. Mow
rey walked. Olson up. Strike one.
Ball one. Foul, strike two. It was
an attempt at the hit-and-run and
Mowrey had to go back to first Ol
son struck out No runs, one hit, no
errors.
Second Half LowIb up. The crowd
gave Lewis a big cheer when he ap
peared, remembering his timely home
run In the last year's series. Ball
one. Ball two. Ball three. Strike
one. Strike two. Lewis walked.
Gardner up. Strike one. Gardner
bunted safely, Lewis going to second.
Scott up. Ball one. Scott sacrificed,
Meyers to Cutshaw, Lewis going to
third and Gardner to second. Cady
up. The Brooklyn infield came in on
the grass. Ball one. Ball two. Ball
four. Cady was purposely passed
filling the bases. Shore up. The
Brooklyn infield then played back for
a double play. Ball one. Strike one.
Strike two. Shore struck out, and
the Brooklyn fans howled. Hooper
up. Ball one. Ball two. Hooper
flied to Myers who made the catch
after a long run. No runs, one hit.
no errors.
Third Inning.
First Half Meyers up; strike one,
ball one, ball two. Shore tossed Mey
ers at first. Marquard up. Foul
strike one; strike two; ball one, ball
two, foul, Marquard was a strike out
victim. Meyers up. Strike one. Ball
one. It was noticed that the Boston
Infield shifted as every Brooklyn bat
ter came to the plate. Ball one. Ball
two. Meyers singled over the middle
bag. Daubert up. Strike one. Strike
two; Daubert struck out on three
pitched balls. It was the second
time he had fanned. No runs, one
hit, no errors.
Second Half Janvrin up. Strike
one; foul, strike two; ball one. Jan
vrin struck out Meyers throwing him
out at first It was the second time
he had fanned. Walker up. Ball one,
ball two, foul, strike one; strike two;
Walker struck out, the third strike
out In the third trip to the plate. Hob
litzel up. Ball one, ball two, ball
three; strike one; strike' two; Hobllt
zell drove a long liner to right for
three bases. Lewis up. Hoblltzell
scored on Lewis' hot two-bagger to
left. The Boston crowd was in a
frenzy of excitement Gardner up.
Strike one; ball one; strike two;
Lewis was picked off second, Mey
ers to Olson. One run, two hits, no
errors.
Fourth Inning.
First half Stengel up. Stengel
singled along the left field foul line.
Wheat up". Wheat drove a long hit to
the right field fence for three bags,
scoring Stengel. Cutshaw up. Cut
shaw flied to Hooper who made the
throw to Cady who touched wheat out
as he slid Into the plate. Mowrey up.
Strike one. Ball one. Janvrin threw
out Mowrey, taking the ball behind
the bag and getting his man by his
step. One run, two hits, no errors.
Second half Gardner up. Strike
one; four, strike two; ball one; ball
two; Gardner struck out Scott up.
Strike one; Scott flied to Wheat who
made a pretty catch. Cady up. Ball
one; ball two; ball three; strike one;
Cady walked, the second time in the
game. Shore up; ball one; strike one;
strike two; ball two. Shore fouled out
to Meyers. No runs, no hits, no er
rors. Fifth Inning.
First half Olson up. Strike one.
Gardner threw out Olson at first.
Meyers up. Meyers got a three-base
hit, when Walker lost his high fly In
the Bun. the ball going into the center
field fence. Marquard up. Janvrin
threw out Marquard at first, Meyers
being held at third. Myers up. Strike
one. Myers popped to Scott No runs,
one hit, no errors.
Second half Hooper up. The crowd
applauded Hooper because of his great
throw which prevented a run by
Brooklyn In the fourth inning, utm
one; strike one; ball two: strike two.
Hooper got a two-base hit by Mj era
who completely lost his fly in tho
sun. The sun shown directly in the
faces of center and right fielders.
Janvrin up. Janvrin sacrificed. Mow
rey to CutBhaw, Hooper moving on to
third. Walker up. Ball one; strike
one; Hooper scored on Walker s single
past Mowrey. Hoblitzel up. Mar quard
almost caught Walker off first. Car
rigan claimed a balk, but Urop re Con
nolly would not allow it Foul, strike
one; Carrigan again claimed that Mar.
quard was using a balk motion, but
Umpire Connolly would not allow it.
Strike two; Holitzell wont out to uau
bert unassisted, Walker going to sec.
ond. Lewis up. Mowrey took Lewis
grounder and touched Walker -as he
came into third. One run, two hits, no
eiTors.
Sixth Inning. .
First half Daubert up. Ball one,
strike one; Gardner tossed out . ui Hu
bert at first Stengel up. 5tr"?
one; strike two; ball one; ball two,
Stengel struck out. Whoat up. Jam
rin tossed out Wheat coming in tasi
and getting the Brooklyn hatters
grounder on tho grass. No runs, no
hits, no errors.
Second half. Gardner up. Ball one;
strike oue; strike two; Olson tumbled
Gardner's grounder and the batter was
safe at first Scott up. Foul strike
one; foul strike two. It was an at
tempt at tho hit and run play. Scott
forced Gardner Mowrey to Cutshaw.
Scott easily made first Cady up.
Scott went to second on a passed hall.
Ball one; ball two; ball three; Cady
walked. It was the third time he had
gone to first base on balls. Shore up.
Strike one; foul strike two; ball one.
Shoro popped to Dauport. Hooper, up.
Hooper popped to Olson. No runs, no
hits, ono error.
Seventh InnVng.
First half. Cutshaw up. Ball one;
Janvrin threw out Cutshaw after fumb
ling his Infield grounder. Mowrey up.
Mowrey singled to right Olson up.
Ball one. Olson hit into a double play
Gardner to Janvrin to Hoblltzell. No
runs, one hit, no errors.
Second half. Janvrin up: Foul
strike ono. Janvrin got a double past
Mowrey. Walker up. Olson fumbled
Walker's grounder and the hatter was
safe, Janvrin going to third. Hoblitzel
up. Strike one. Foul, strike two.
Janvrin scored when Cutshaw made a
fumble of Hoblltzel's grounder, the
batter being safe at first and Walker
going to second. Lewis up and sacri
ficed Daubert to Cutshaw, Walker
going to third and Hoblltzell to sec
ond. Gardner up. Ball one. Ball two.
Ball three. Strike one. Cutshaw took
Gardner's grounder but his throw to
tho plato was too late to catch Walker
as he slid over the plate. Hoblitzel
wetn to third. Scott up. Strike one.
Ball one. Foul, strike two. Ball
two. Meyers saved Marquard a wild
pitch. Ball three. Hoblitzel scored on
Scott's sacrifice -fly to Stengel. Gard
ner remained on first Cady up. Ball
ono. Cutshaw threw out Cady. Three
runs, one hit, two errors.
Eighth Inning.
First half. Meyers up. Ball one.
Scott threw out Meyers. Johnston
batted in place of Marquard. Ball one
Ball two. Strike one. Johnston sin
gled over Janvrln's head. Myers up.
Foul strike one. Ball one. A double
play followed. Myers' grounder was
deflected by Shore to Scott, who
tossed to Janvrin, who then threw out
Myers at first No runs, one hit, no
errors.
Secon half. Pfelfer now pitching
for Brooklyn. Shore up. Ball one.
Strike one. Strike two. Shore filed
out to Wheat Hooper up. Ball one.
Strike one. Ball two. Ball three.
Hooper walked. "Janvrin up. Strike
one. One the hit and run play Janv
rin singled, Hooper going to third,
and when Stengel threw wildly past
second Hooper scored, Janvrin going
to second. Walker up. Ball one.
Ball two. Ball three. Walker walked.
Hoblitzel up. Hoblitzel filed out to
Wheat, Janvrin holding second. Lew
is up. Foul, strike one. Strike two.
Lewis bit on a wide curve. Ball one.
Lewis forced Walker, Olson to Cut
shaw. One run, one hit, one error.
Ninth Inning.
First half Daubert up. Ball one.
Ball two. Ball three. Daubert walked.
Stengel up. Ball one. Strike one.
Strike two, foul. Ball two. Stengel
singled to right, Daubert going to sec
ond. Wheat up. Wheat forced Dau
bert, Shore to Gardner, Stengel going
to second, cutshaw up. btrtKe one.
Cutshaw was hit by a pitched ball aud
the bases were filled. Mowrey up.
Ball one. Strike one. Strike two.
Stengel and Wheat scored when Jan
vrin fumbled Mowrey's grounder, Cut
shaw moving on to second. Olson up.
Ball one. Strike one. Olson got an
infield hit, filling the bases. Meyers
up. Strike one. Four; strike two.
Meyers fouled out to Hoblitzel. Merkle
batted for Pfelffer. Strike one. Ball
one. Strike two. Ball three. Foul.
Merkle walked, Cutshaw scoring.
Shore was taken from the box, Mays
taking his place. Thomas went in
to catch for Cady. Myers up. Strike
one. Mowrey scored when Myers
scratched an infield hit Olson moved
on to third and Merkle to second.
Foul, strike one. Ball one. Ball two.
Scott threw out Daubert Four runs,
three hits, and one erro.
Final Score. '
R. H. E.
Brooklyn 5 10 4
Boston ..6 8 1
BALLOON RACE
STARTS TODAY
Muskogee, Okla., Oct. 7. Visions of
New World records In long distance
ballooning were seen today by pilots in
tho International Balloon Race before
they left tho ground. With nothing
but favorablo weather In prospect, it
was predicted that previous endurance
records in the aerial classic would bo
exceeded by the bags ascending to
day. Enthusiastic followers of tho sky
sport were hero from, all parts of the
United States for tho event
Warrent Aazor, representing the
Aero club of Dayton, Ohio, will start
first followed at five minutue inter
vals by William F. Asman, in the
St. Louis; Dr. L. E. Custer, represent
ing the Aero club of Wichita, Kansas;
Captain H. E. Honeywell, of St
Louis, In "Uncle Sam," said to bo tho
largest balloon in America; E. S. Colo
of Cleveland, Ohio, and Captain John
Berry, representing tho Million Popu
lation club of St Louis.
WORLD SERIES12 M. wSffi
fc . B
a Progressive's Views j
of National Polities
Charles E. Hughes can not con
sistently lay claim to the popular vote
because he has placed property rights
abovo human rights in direct viola
tion of fundamental law which .was
written with the design that every
American citizen should be entitled to
"life, liberty and the pursuit of happi
ness." This was the declaration of Judge
Nortoni of St. Louis, in a discussion
of the national issues before an as
semblage of Democrats and Progres
sives in the Weber academy auditori
um, last night The jurist, who re
signed from the bench in tho court
of appeals in his native state that he
might promote interest in the candi
dacy of Woodrow Wilson in this cam
paign, comapred the legislative acts
of tho two candidates to show that
President Wilson, on the one hand,
is Progressive in every sense of the
word, and that Charles E. Hughes not
only is a reactionary in the political
sense, but has worked in the various
official capacities he has filled to
block every move for the benefit of
humanity.
Judge Nortoni, who was the Pro
gressive candidate for governor of
Missouri, said he had not abandoned
the Progressive party. Although
Roosevelt, the standard bearer had
deserted from the leadership, and did
not propose to tike such a drastic
stop. In this campaign, .however, he
insisted all good Progressive were un
conditionally for President Woodrow
Wilson because his administration as
chief executive had enacted into law
those measures for which the Progres
sive party stands now and stood four
years ago.
"I am neither a Democrat nor a
Republican, but I intend to support
Woodrow Wilson for re-election for
the Progressive measures enacted by
a Democratic administration," said
Judge Nortoni.
He told of how the Progressive par
ty In 1912, and again in 1916, until
it was shipwrecked by Colonel Roose
velt, favored a change In the banking
system of this country, and a federal
trade commission, a child labor law
and other measures passed by a Dem
ocratic congress.
"I was educated and reared to be a
Republican who thought n o good
could come from a Democratic admin
istration," he said. "My opinion has
been changed, for more humanitarian
legislation has been enacted under
the Wilson administration than an
time in the history of this country.
"If we progressives were sincere in
our fight, we should refuse to give up
our chattels and be delivered over to
the standpatters and the reactionaries.
"I prefer to be an independent who
will carry my soverignty under my
hat. We should stand on party lines
in this campaign. The Democratic
party has stood for tho- majority of
our principles and has passed the
laws we would have enacted if wo
had been in power.
"We know Smoot Penrose, Barnes
and the standpatters who stole the
Republican convention in 1912 are
now behind the presidential candidacy
of Mr, Hughes.
"The Republican candidate for Pres
ident is a typical lawyer who lives
in tho environments of big business.
As governor of New York ho vetoed
a 2-cent railroad law. Wo In Mis
souri passed one, and the supremo
court upheld tho legality of this sta
tute. Mr. Hughes opposed the income
tax.
"Ho vetoed a proposed law equaliz
ing the salaries of women with men.
Now ho tells us he favors woman's
suffrage.
"I am one, he continued, "who re-
luses 10 aoanuon our uug aim
delivered over to Barnes, Penrose,
Crane and Guggeinhelms and the un
holy Hughes Alliance. Tho Republi
can party has honest men like LaFol
lette, Kenyon, Cummings and Mur
dock, but they are not in the saddle.
"We Progressives in 1912 saw the
need of a change in banking laws
and wanted an elastic currency. Wil
son took up our causo and gave us
tho federal reserve a't We urged a
farm credit act. Tho party of Wil
son came to our rescue with this law.
Then we advocated a federal trade
commission to look after big business
like tho interstate commerce commis
sion does tho railroads. Again Wil
son met the wishes of the Progres
sives. Wo Progressives opposed the
nefarious Aldrich-Payno tariff bill
and the Democratc have given us a
tariff commission to our liking and
urged by ua. Wo saw that labor was
being crucified and opposed injunc
tions. This evil has been remedied
by a Democratic congress.
Eight-Hour Day.
"The Progressive platform declared
in favor of the eight-hour day princi
ple in continuous Industries, and
somo three or four different portions
of that document reflect this view.
Impending controversy between the
railroad employes and the owners of
the railroads camo up this summer.
The men demanded an eight-hour day
and pay and a half for overtime. Tho
owners of the railroads rejected these
demands and proposed an arbitration.
The railroad men refused to arbitrate
and insisted upon their right to havo
an eight-hour day. Throughout the
Progressive platform reflects the hu-
l :
mane view that It is not only cruel I"
but unjust, when viewed from the !
standpoint of the social fabric that '
Is, the general public at large to re- i j
quire the tollers of the country to !
work excessive hours. In the first .
place, when men are thus overtaxed j
in dangerous employments it renders I
the occupation not only a dangerous I
one to the employes but to those who !
patronize the railroad as well, and
in this the public at large 1b concern-
ed. Moreover, such long hours tend j
to undermine the constitution of the
workers and impair their usefulness, j
shorten their lives and in many in- i
stances entails a burden on the gen-
eral public, which it becomes the duty
of society to relieve. Therefore, the
Intelligent opinion of mankind has it
settled down In favor of the eight- !
hour principle. Indeed, every legis- f
lature which has had the matter j
brought to Its attention has given a
verdict in favor of the eight-hour law.
In Missouri we have had an eight-
hour statute, as I remember, since k
the year I was born, 1867. The men &
declined to arbitrate this, and. when
the matter came to the President,
after due consideration, he assumed
the position that the eight-hour law
was a matter of right, but that the
question as to what the payment
should be for overtime was one to bo
settled otherwise. The men argued
that, though an eight-hour day were
granted, it would not yield benefits
to them unless an increase in wages
were provided for overtime so as to f
see that those employing the men
would be interested in Its observance.
The President said, as the enlightened
opinion of society has settled the
question of an eight-hour day as right,
it wasn't one for arbitration, but in
deed, as a matter of positive right
should never be so submitted. The :
owners of the railroads contended the
whole matter should he submitted,
and their proposal amounts to the
same thing as in case one who should
violate the Sunday laws would insist
upon the matter of arbitrating the
question In respect to this. The better (
thought of the world has settled long '
ago upon the proposition that it is
right to observe one day in seven as
a holy day, and this is true, whatever
our religious views may be. The mat
ter having been thus sanctioned by
the concurrence of public opinion, It
is established as a right and there
by removed from the field of discus
sion as to propriety and likewise the
purview of arbitration. The Presi
dent was clearly right, according to
the best thought of the "world as to
this, and he proposed, too, that the
other matter In dispute that is, tho I
pay for overtime should be consid
ered after an Investigation of the
facts, not according to the opinion
of either the owners of tho railroads
or the men. To do this it was essen
tial that some investigation should be
had to ascertain what would appear
to he a just compensation for tho
overtime, and how great the burden
would be on the railroads touching
that matter. In so far as the Presi
dent denied tho application of the
principle of arbitration as to the
eight-hour day, he stood squarely on
tho Progressive platform and squarely
in accord with the settled judgment
of society throughout the country.
But, as no agreement could be reach
ed, the question was laid before con
gress, and the charge Is made that
force was used to obtain the enact
ment of the President's proposal into
law. This may bo answered, first,
by denying the statement No force
was used. The attempt to agree hav
ing been abandoned, the men called
a strike to go Into effect a very few
roads Issued an embargo against re- M
celvlng for transportation certain
' kinds of freight an appalling condl- I
tion was threatened. The railroad
men called tho strike and departed
from Washington, They used no force I
on congress and asked no legislation I
touching the matter. They simply as-
sorted their right under the recog-
nlzed law of this country to quit tho
employment, either individually or M
collectively, as they chose. Tho Pre
ident represented the third party to
the controversy; that is, the great ffl
general public the one hundred mil- M
lion of Americans on whom the blow
would fall. To tie up the arteries
of transportation thus would entail a
loss so far reaching in Its effacts that
one may not conceive tho result in
tho fullness of Its measure. The man
who had cattle or hogs on bis
farm to ship would be required to
keep them there, ready to ship, and
feed them while he could not reach
the market. The wheat crops of tho
farmer would decompose In the field.
Tho melon crops of southeast Mis-
souri, tho cabbage crops, the peach H
crops, and so, too. all of the crops m
would perish for want of means to H
transport them to market The fac- H
tories would shut down because, for- wm
sooth, it was impossible to transport H
their goods to the consumer. In tnis
situaUon tho factories would close H
down and the men In their employ bo JH
thrown into idleness rather than to
permit tho accumulation of goods H
irXiM, mitfit not bo transported Into
gffoftSdo? and with tho do
(Continued on Page 16.)
