FAIR
STK. (iKNEVIKVE. .MISSOTKT. SATTUDAV. (XTOBEK 7. 11)1(5.
NUiMKETi. 24.
MS OFTHEWEEK
FROM OVER WORLD
HAPPENINGS IN" OUR OWN AND
OTHER COUNTRIES HERE
ARE BRIEFLY. TOLD.
SHORT ITEMS FOR BUSY MEN
Condensation of Week's News Re
viewed Without Comment All
Nations Find Something to
Edify and Instruct.
Two of three negroes charged with
murdering a deputy sheriff who
Bought to prevent a jail delivery were
lynched at Nowata, Ok.
Charles docpfert speaks only
I rench. Miss Lucy 12. Muttcrer speaks
only German, llev. Frank O. Deck of
Chicago, who married them, read tho
.service In English.
Tho smallest public school In tho
-world, at Cly, Va., containing desk
room for 12 pupils, Is seeking a teach
er. This year only two pupils will at
tend. Charles FIxmer was $23 ahead when
ho left a Chicago dice game. As ho
departed two hold-up men relieved
him of tho money.
...
Sir William Henry Dunn was elect
ed lord mayor of London. Tho now
lord mayor will ho the third Roman
Catholic lord mayor of London In re
cent years.
Arthur Carter, a negro chauffeur,
ran down four llttlo girls in Argcnta,
Ark., killing one of them.
Palmer Bosworth, 14 years old, of
'Tampa, Fla., Is dead of Injuries re
ceived during a football game.
One thousand clgarmakers in five
factories went on strike in Tampa,
fla., for higher wages for piece work.
Legal time in Creat Britain was put
"back one hour, beginning at 3 a. m
Oct. 1.
Branches of tho Deutsche Asiatic
bank at Yokohama and Kobe have
heen closed and are now under guard
of Japanese soldiers.
Violation of tho Itfann whito slavo
.act by sending more than a scoro of
.girls from Chicago to Terro Haute.
Ind., was charged in indictments
against Emil Paurat and his wife.
American Indians aro no longer a
dying race, Cato Sells, United States
commissioner of Indian affairs, says.
There aro 350,000 Indians In 21 states,
settled on 80 reservations. Tho death
rate has been reduced and births aro
increasing.
William Coulter of New York found
tho enrd of Miss Edlsta Roberts, Chat
tanooga, Tenn., in a pair of silk stock
ings his mother bought. Letters and
lortralts wero exchanged nl soon
'Miss lloherts will bo Mrs. Coulter.
Remorse caused Frank Greeg, con
vlct In the Michigan prison, to make a
voluntary confession that ho shot and
Wiled Frank M. McKinney, a police
man of North Vernon, Ind., on tho
TJlght of Jan. IB, 1915.
r
Thieves invadod the Illinois prison
lionor farm while tho convicts slept
and stolo a team and wagon.
V
Unless England lifts tho dye em
largo, tho coloring on 2-cent stamps
will become deathly pale. Tho cheeks
-nro tinted with crimson lake, made In
Germany.
Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, tho only
-woman who over ran for president of
tho United States on a regularly nom
inated ticket, ha3 declared herself to
Ijo for President Wilson.
Tho United States submarine L-7
was launched at Long Beach, Cal., by
tho California Shipbuilding Co.
Practical tests, designed to show
tho Individual efficiency of naval of
ficers Qualifying for promotion, aro to
supersede tho old system of written
examinations.
Mrs. Annie Smith, 26 years old, is
in Jail at Na'shvllle, Arku charged with
murder, and Jicr husband, John Smith,
Is detained .as an nccessoty, following
tho Wiling of C. S. Ledford, 33 years
old. ,
.
Allen U, 'Tomllnson, an official of
tho Tomllnson Chair Co. of Pino
Illdgo, S. C., was 'found ohot to death
In hlstroom in a- Chicago hotel.
1 . .' .
Robert Augustus Hemmgway, promi
nent In Chicago '"society circles, was
killed in a fall from a yacht' at Sara
sota, Fla. ' ,
Tho cost of wonmn's clothes was
given as tho reason why several mil
Hon men don't got marriod by llov.
Franklin W. Swift of tho Galileo Bap.
tlst chinch, Chicago,
Tho prlcp of flour Is now, at the
highest level alnco tho civil war.
Standard patents bring ?9.1Q a barrel,'
an Increase of (3 over a year ago!,
.
Dr. Wellington Koo, minister to. tho
United Slates, Jias sent h'la r.eslgtiav
tlon to Oio .torultn olflcc,. flvlng .'Ill
health as the' reason.
Minneapolis millers declaro that
flour may retail at $10 a barrel In tho
near futuro It wheat prices contlr.uo
to rise.
Sub. Llout. Nungcsser of tho French
aviation Borvico brought down two
aeroplanes, making IT, and n captlvo
balloon.
Stringent regulation of tho manufac
ture and salo of pulque, the principal
strong drink of Mexico, has been or
dered by First Chief Carranza. Tho
new regulations double tho tax.
Tho Republican national commltteo
announces that Gov. Whitman will
mako a speaking trip In tho middle
west this month. He will sptak in In
dianapolis Oct. 11, In Chicago Oct. 12,
In St. Louis Oct. 13 and in Loulsvlllo
Oct. 11.
Tho German o.liperor has Issued a
letter of thanks to tho German ship
yards, which have already completed
repairs on tho ships damaged In tho
Jutland battle.
Tho Roman Catholic-homo at Beau
mont, Canada, was destroyed by fire.
There wero upward of 200 children
and aged persons In the Institution
and all wero safely removed. Loss,
$50,000.
President Wilson went to his old
homo to vote nt tho New Jersey Dem
ocratic primaries. His ballot was No.
14 and ho "voted 'or straight."
Edward E. Martini, Chicago's big
gest policeman, is dead. He weighed
431 pounds and was 6 feet 2 inches
tall.
It Is a greater crime 'In Greeno
county. 111., to steal six hens than to
steal a Ford. Juries In tho Carrollton
circuit court have so decided. Tho
hen thief got &0 days and tho machine
stealer CO.
Undermined by construction work
on tho new Coney Island subway, a
portion of Sixty-eighth street, Brook
lyn, between Fifth and Sixth avenues,
caved in.
a
McFarrcn Davis, for 27 years editor
of tho Paris (111.) Beacon, and one of
the most widely known editors of cen
tral Illinois, Is dead.
Tho corncrstono of a $17,000 public
library building at Nevada, Mo., was
laid with Masonic ceremonies. Tho
Rev. Dr. C. 11. Brlggs of Sedalia of
ficiated. Tho printers' supply salesmen havo
advertised for tho "uggllcst girl in
town." They want her to lead a crand
march in Madison Square.
Dr. Eva Harding, known In Kansas
as tho "fighting woman," filed her pe
tition as an Independent candidate for
congress in tho first Kansas district.
Prayers for tho dead will becomo a
part of tho ritual of tho Protestant
Episcopal church If tho commission
on tho revision has Its way.
Members of F battery, Illinois artll
lery, numbering 119 men, most of
whom aro students at the University
of Illinois, havo been mustered out.
A world's record for exports was set
by this country during August. The
exports totaled $510,000. This Is $35,
000,000 higher than tho previous rec
ord. Tho jury nt Iola, Kan., beforo which
Mrs. Ruby Stevens was tried for tho
murder of Clifford KIstner, a young
fanner, was unablo to agree.
W. G. McAdoo, chairman of the fed
eral farm loan board, mado a pilgrim
age to tho tomb of Abraham Lincoln
in Oak RIdgo cemetery, Springfield,
where they placed a wreath.
a
Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing, com
mander of tho American forces In
Mexico, has been mado it nlnjor gen
eral, succeeding tho lato Maj. Gen.
Albert L. Mills.
Janies Owen of Milwaukee was
drawing a "short onq" when lie got a
communication' from Chattanooga. It
said Mrs. P. II. Wisdom, Owen's
grandmother, had ' bequeathed him
$800,000.
Tho German government tiurnnseB
to take uri with tho Internntlon.il Ite.t
Cross a complaint that tho now Brit-
ish "tanks" aro against tho rules of
civilized warfare
a a
Whllo being rushed In an automo
bile to a hospital to recelvo attention
for injuries received In un accident nt
an oil well near Tulsa, II. G. Lytic, 48,
was killed when the machlno upset in
a pile of sand.
Oscar D. McDaniei; prosecuting rt-
tornuy of Buchanan county, Jin., was
arrested on a stato warrant chnrginr.'
him with tho murder of his wife, llir
riot Moss McDaniei, who was found
dying in her bedroom tho night of
July 25.
Confederate nnd Union veteran
Joined ln unveiling a monument In
National cemetery dedicated to Union
soiuicrs who lost tuolr lives in battles
around Memphis.
a '
Mexlcau Ambassador Arrcdondo U
speeding to Mexico City to take to
Gen, Carranza a report as to the prog
ress being mado by tho American-1
Mexican commissioners. ,, , ;
'
An alarm clqck tlodtto hs; Hand ,al.!
traded a, 'policeman's ntlt)nttion-and
led. to .tho detention of 'pojiald But'eft,'
landj 16i of Milwaukee, a runaway. . ''.
'
The Elehih Illinois infantry;, negro'
regiment; has hejn released frpmSefirv...
1C6 nnd will bo repla'c'ed. by. tUo, First"
Wyomlngi ' - '
THIRD BACK HOME
Kansas City Givc4 Its Soldier
Boys a Warm Welcome on
Return from Border.
MARCH IN REVIEW UPTOWN
Great Crowd Greeted tho Regiment
With Cheers Over the Entire
Route of the Parade.
Tho largest crowd that has lissom
bled at tho Kansas City Union Station
since Its opening was on hand to welcome-
Uio r.sturn homo of the .Third
Regiment, which arrived in two sec
tions lato tho other afternoon. Tho
first train, composed of ten coaches,
pulled Into tho train sheds at 4:41
o'clock and tho second section trrlved
twcnty-flvo minutes later.
Mothers, wives, sweethearts, friends
and n host of thoso whoso only Interest
was that of patriotic citizens wero on
hand to pay their respcct3 and join in
the rousing ovation nccoiucd tho regi
ment. Conservative estimates placed
tho crowd at tho Union Stntlon at 20,
000, to say nothing of tho vast throngs
of people who stood all along tho lino
of inarch of the parado to get a gllmpso
of tho boys and cheer them as they
marched through tho down-town
streets, following tho exorcises on tho
Union Station plaza.
And It was not tho regiment of raw
recruits that left three months ago to
enter the service of Undo Sam that
returned. True, tho faces wero tho
same, except for tho heavy coat of
tan, which Indicates tlit Rervlce, tho
sands and the hot winds tho boys havo
been through. Tho regiment that re
turned was a regiment of seasoned
veterans, with crectness of poise,
alertness of step, and ono that Mis
souri can justly bo proud of.
tl was nearly C o'clock beforo the
parade, headed by twenty-eight mo
tor cars with tho regiment following
on foot, left tho plaza and tho S33
soldier boys, shouldering their mus
kets, marched through town. Both
sides of Grand avenuo wero lined
with people all tho way from Twenty
fourth to Seventh streets, nnd Main
street was nearly as crowded as tho
rcsimcnt marched through the two
long columns of humanity waiting to
wtlcomo it homo.
Regulates Cigarette' Sales.'
After two attempts to enact an or
dinance regulating tthe side of cigar
ettes in Springfield to meet tho ap
proval of local club women and mem
bers of mothers' clubs, tlio city com
mission recently turned over a third
measuro to a big delegation of Women
who called at the city hall. Tho com
missioners vacated tho council cham
bers and permitted tho women to take
their places and chango the bill to
suit their wishes. When they wero
through with the bill the women had
fixed tho license for tho sale of cigar
ettes at $500 a year, rewritten a sec
tion making a minor who misrepre
sents his ago In buying. cigarettes im
rauno from punishment but placing
tho blamo on tho dealer and describ
ing a minor as a person under 18
years of ago Instead of over 10 and
tinder IS years. Tho women then ad
journed, the city commission recon
vened nnd passed tho" bill. Cigarette
dealers served notice they would go
Into tho courts over tho ordinance,
contending'lt Is not legal.
Nominate School Head.
I. Nowton Ilvrard of Marshall has
been nominated for state superintend
ent of schools by the Republican Btato
committee. Tho nomination is- to fill
a vacancy caused by tho death of Su
perintendent Gass, whose term would
not have expired until 1019.
Scolded for Drinking, Shot Mother.
Mrs. Androw Roberts was shot and
Beverely wounded by her son, Ernest
, Roberts, at Moberly tho other morn
ing when sho reprimanded mm for
drinking.
Apple Tree' Dlossoms Twice In Year,
! An arly Jllno nPl,o lrco ln tho J"1
of Judge Irving Gordon in Nevada is
filled with blossoms for tho second
time this year. Tho tree boro n largo
yield of fruit earlier in tho year.
Wealthy Farmer Dies at Table.
A. F. Russell, CO years old, -a
wealthy farmer and stockman living
six miles west of Savannah Is dead
ot hcart tll8casn- 110 wns seated at
tho supper tablo with his wife when
utrlckeh. '
Woman Motor Tourist Injured.
In a collision of motor cars east of
St. Joseph Mrs. W. C. Draper of
DnflipKtor. N. Y.. who. with her lms.
j imtul and a party from Rochester and
. Detroit, nro on n tour In tho Pacific
i coast, uuffercd u- broken rib and in-
, temal intuiies. Sho is mv ut-n hotel
ln St. Joseph.
Lay Library Cornerstone.
With appropriate Ceremonies the
cornerstone of the now Carnegie llhra-'
ry building nt Nevada was 'laiiP're
ccntlY." Tho Third rcglmciit ba'nil'Te'if
Lrrocesslon of tho Masonic order , nnd
.htany hundreds of school chlldntn to
Vl'io Bfcenb of the x'cjcls'e8. Tlio lay
lug of tho stono vus conducted by
Rev. C. ILBrlBBof 3eaalhii 'v I
'
' Killed 'In a Runaway? j
Jplm,' iWius, 38'. year old; Is dead
at Pilot Grove. His neck was broken
ln a runaway aoveral daya beforo.
A DOCTOR SHOOTS HIMSELF
C. Adcock, Son of State Bord of
Health Secretary, Fires Outlet
Into Mis Heart.
Dr. Delbort Claudo Adcock, an eyo,
ear nnd throat specialist of Warrens
burg, Mo., committed suicide the other
morning in a cornfield near his farm
at Hickman Mills, near Kansas City.
Ho shot himself with a rifle. Tho
bullet entered his heart.
Doctor Adcock had been staying sev
eral weeks with his aunt and uncle,
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Fisher of Lees
Summit, whilo ho was overseeing tho
picking of the largo apple orchard on
his farm at Hickman Mills. Ho left
Leos Summit early in the morning for
hla fnrm Wlinn ho did imt return.
relatives telephoned "iw fiiniVWV J,
Eparch wan made,
Mr. Fisher, his uncle, immediately
started for tho farm. On his wny ho
found Doctor Adcock's large 7-passon- j
ger motor car on a hyrond near a corn
field, not. fnr from the farm. Doctor
Adcock's body was found In tho corn-
field. I
Relatives say Doctor Adcock had ,
grown despondent because of 111
health. It was learned from Kansas
City acquaintances that ho fell from
his offico window In tho second story
to tho street In Warrcnsburg about
six years ago, which caused him to
bo away from his practlco at Inter
vals. '
Doctor Adcock was the son of Dr.
J. A. B. Adcock, secretary of tho
stato board of health. Besides his I
parents, Adcock leaves his wife, Mrs.
Bcsslo Haitmnn Adcock, nnd a son,
John Adcock. Doctor Adcock was 30
years old. Tho body was sent to
Warrensbdg.
WILL TEACH THE WAR GAME
Two United States Army Officers
Have Been Detailed to Serve
at State University.
Two United States army officers
have been detailed to teach military
science and tactics at the University
of Missouri for this session. This is
the first tlmo that two commissioned
officers of tho regular army havo been
In charge of tho military department
nt Columbia. Tho recent order of tho
war department was duo to tho high
rank of tho oadet corps here nnd tho
increase in tho number of cadets.
Major Chartes W. Castol, Eleventh
infantry, recently regimental quarter
master at Douglas, Ariz., is tho ncV
commandant. Ho is a graduate ol
West Point nnd served in tho Spanish-American
war. Houtcnant J. C.
King, Seventh cavalry, until recently
under tho command of General Per
shing in Mexico, is tho second army
officer on duty hero. Ho holds tho
rank of professor of military science
nnd tactics at tho university.
St. Lbuls Has 172,254 Voters.
Registration for tho fall election
closed in St. Louis with 172,261 on tho
books. It Is thought that about 1,500
will bo eliminated in revision, but this
will bo offset ln part by the later reg
istration of persons absent from tho
city during the four regular days of
registration. Tho . registration this
year is the highest in the history of
the city.
Survey for OH In Ray County.
An oil survey of Hay county is to
bo made Immediately by tho stato
geologist, II.'A. Buehler of Rolla, Mo.
If sufficient Indications of oil aro
found a stock company will he or
ganized. Starves Herself to Death.
Rather than ask of her neighbors
or relatives, Mrs. Anna Klsenman, lato
of Kansas City, and who is said to
havo wealthy relatives now living in
that city, died from tho effects of
starvation at a St. Joseph hospital re
cently. Judge Rowland of Bevler Dead.
Judge Thomas A. Rowland, ex
mayor of Bevler, Is dead, aged 48.
For many years Judge Rowland was
tho correspondent for the Kansas City
Star and other city papers. At tho
time of his death ho was justlco of
tho peace for Bovler township. Ho
was an active Republican.
Another "Death Instrument."
A bungstnrtor, found In a vacant lot
trash pilo just north of tho McDaniei
home ln St. Joseph, may bo an im
portant clow In tho case of the stato
to determine tho murderer of Mrs.
Oscar McDaniei, for who.io death her
husband, prosecuting attorney. Is be
ing held. This Instrument, shaped
pomowhat llko a mallet, Is heavy
enough to havo been tho weapon with
which Mrs. McDaniei was killed.
Plan Dig Music Hall.
Kansas City will havo a piuslc hall
If plans launched at a meeting of tho
Rotary Club nro carried out. Tho
club plans a building for music to cost
$250,000, to be erected ns n kind of
lasting memorial to tho work ln Kan
sas City of tho Rotary Club.
. , Student Hurt by Fail.
?ii,' ?. Lattimo'ro of Terguson, nn en
glnccrlng freshman, Missouri univernl
ty, la in tho hospital with nn Injured
splno after falling headlong down n
cliff i near Columbia whllo on a hike.
Ho was uncoiiBcIoUB for hours aftor
bolng brought to tho hospital,
Missouri Newspaper Man Dies.
John, Dunn, 47 yearn old, a formor
nowspapcr man ot Fulton, and nt ono
tlmo connected with Mexico and Col
umbia nowBpapers, died at Fulton tho
other1 morning after a lone Illness,
DETROIT TROLLEY
E
FOURTEEN DEAD, 24 HURT WHEN
ACCIDENT HAPPENS AT
CROSSING.
THIRD SIMILAR CATASTROPHE
More Than 90 Passengers on Car at
Time Identification of Some Im
possible as They Were
around by Train.
Detroit, Mich. Fourteen persons
wero killed and moro than 25 Injured
several probably fatally, Sunday night
when a switch engine hauling two
freight cars crashed Into a crowded
street car at Forest avenue nnd Do
nlnder street on the east side. There
were more than 90 persons In tho
street car, man of them returning
from the theaters.
Killed Under Freight Cars
Tho street car was struck almost in
the center, the Impact pushing It from
tho tracks nnd sliding It alongside
the freight cars.
Panic-stricken passengers brgnn
Jumping from both the front and rear
doors and climbing through windows.
Most of tho dead were killed by jump
ing from tho car and falling under
tho wheels of the still moving freight
cars.
Ambulances from every hospital in
Detroit were rushed to the scene. Ono
hospital alono reported 15 Injured nnd
one dead had been taken there.
This accident was tho third of a
similar naturo hero in tho last year
pnd the second to occur at tho Forest
avenue crossing. The railroad tracks
nt Dequlnder street nro used by tho
Grand Trunk nnd Detroit Terminal
Railroad companies.
7ho death of a llttlo girl, who suc
cumbed to her injuries while being
taken to a hospital, brought tho list
of dead to 14. At the same hospital
ono man was reported to bo dying,
while thrco others, unidentified, were
unconscious and tho extent of their
injuries undetermined.
Thoso who wero killed outright at
tlii crossing were so badly mangled
that identification thero was Impos
sible. According to a member of tho
switching crew tho train was moving
at about 20 miles an hour when it
ttrnck tho street car.
THREE DEAD ERECT IN CHAIRS
No Jilgns of Violence or Poisoning
Discovered After Neighbors En.
tcr Their Home In Ohio.
Lancaster, Ohio. Neighbors of the
Misses Alice and Agnes Smelters, 50
nnd IS years old respectively, seeing
no sign ot activity about the home
of the two womon, entered nnd found
the two ladles and Miss Mary Stret
ton, a visitor, 30, sitting erect in rock
ing chairs. All three wero dead.
There was no sign of violence or
poisoning. The coroner is attempting
to solvo the mystery of tho deaths.
That death had come quickly was evi
denced by the fact that ono of the
sisters had her glasses on and was
holding a newspaper.
Automobile to Sunday School Man.
Pnna, 111. For thirty successive
years 11. P. Hart of Roby county was
elected president of tho Christian
County Sunday School Association. At
tho fifty-fifth annual convention in
Rosemoitd, 111., county fellow workers
gave him a $1,000 automobile.
Kills Wife, Ends Life.
Alva, Ok. Corporal George Hlghbeo
of tho United States army shot and
killed his young wife on tho street
hero and then turned his pistol on
himself and ended his own life.
Drakeford Named Agent.
Springfield, 111. James J. Drake
ford, United States Internal revenuo
agent for the Springfield district of
Illinois, has received word of his
appointment as Internal revenue agent
for the entire stato of Texas.
Emperor of Abyssinia Deposed.
London. Emperor Lldjl Jpnssu of
Abyssinia has been deposed at Addis
Ababa. Lldjl Jea6su Is 22 years old
and a grandson of Emperor Menollk
whom ho succeeded in 1913.
Denmark Calls Plebiscite.
Copenhagen. Both houses of tho
Danish parliament passed tho bill pro
viding for a plehslclte on the salo of
tho Danish West Indies to tho United
States.
Senator Clarke Dead.
Llttlo Hock, Ark. Senator James
P. Clarke, 02, Is dead at his homo ot
apoplexy.
Uank Head Convicted.
Fort Smith, Ark. T. W. M. Iloono,
president ot the American National
Hank which failed hero with a short
age reported to hove been moro than
$200,000, wns found guilty In an Indict
ment charging falsification.
Japanese Arouse Distrust.
Wnohtngton, Confidential reports
reaching Washlngivn from official
sources teil of widespread distrust of
Japancso trado methods which com
juotclnl dealings under war conditions
havo ftnphasUcd.
WHY IS TABLECLOTH SACRED?
Its Natural Function Is to Get Dirty,
but Woe to the Man Who Gets
a Spot on It.
"Why," demanded the Oecnslonnl
Grumbler, In tho tone of ono who not
only did not expect, but would not
ti'lerato, an nnswor, "should a clean
tablecloth lie the most sacred thing
about tl fairly iivorngo family house
hold? A clean tablecloth Is not lures
or pennies, cither or both. It's Just n
rag that has managed to get through
tho laundry In good shape. It run go
through again In Just a.4 good shape
or Just about us good; und, for thut
matter. If the worst camo to tin; worst
(lis your wife generally expects it to)
It could bo replaced without disturbing
tho quotation on Internutlouul ex
change, "But n woman never thinks nbout
that. To her n clean tablecloth is u
thing to he worshiped, not a thing to
bo en ten off of, nnd It never occurs
to her that no mngle can bless It with
semlpatornnl cleanliness. It's got to
got dirty sometime why not now?
Nothing to It! If you nrcrllmv tho
gravy from tho ment platter, which
through no fault of yours has boon
filled too full, or If you happen to dec
orate the Immaculate splendor of the
cloth with n nice red pollen clot of cran
berry juice, you're In bad for tho rest
of the day, and nut) he longer.
"Of course, when such tilings hap
pen, tho tablecloth Is only serving the
purpose for which It Is put there, hut
that's no excuse. 'You ought to be
moro careful 1' This comes across tho
tublo In no uncertain tones. But it
isn't in the naturo of news, because
you've heard it plenty often before.
"I sny It is the business of a clean
tablecloth to get dirty and get washed,
nnd get dirty and got wnshed.'and get
dirty nnd get washed. But what I say
doesn't make any difference. I get In
so bad every time n'new tablecloth Is
sprung at our house tluit'ln my lovo for
tho comfort of flirty ones I am becom
ing slovenly in my habits. So what I
say Is tids: Either you ought to ho
nflluent enough to have n clean tnblc
cloth every meal, or two or three times
n meal If necessary or desirable, or
you ought to bo humblo enough to be
content to oat off of an oilcloth-covered
table that can ho swabbed off,
without damage or distress of tem
per." Indianapolis News.
How He Saved the Situation.
It Is with tremendous seriousness of
mind that the rooklo ofllcers do things.
They were preparing to leave for tho
Sloxlcnn border, nnd as the rooklo
corporal marched his men up to the
truck ho felt hauled. He could recall
no order ln tho Infantry Drill Regu
lations for getting eight men nboard
a big gray truck In n military wny.
They were nlrendy In squad forma
tion, so ho cogitated that he couldn't
very well order them to "Fall In," as
they wero already all ln; then on sec
ond thought he Imagined that "Fnll In"
wns Just tlio word, if ho only inarched
them up to tho truck nnd said It then.
There would ho nothing for them to
do hut fall Into the truck. As they
reached the truck enmo the order from
tho rookie corporal, "Fnll In!" Being,
ns they thought, nlready completely
fallen In, the men wero nonplussed as
to how to fnll In any further. It didn't
occur to them to tumble Into tho truck,
nnd being up ngnlnst the wheels nnd
thinking tho corporal really meant
"Halt!" they nil enme to standstill.
Tho rookie "noncom" scratched his
head and thought. Then ho Bald: "Oh,
hell! All nboard!"
Says England Needs Repentance.
Cnnon Nowbolt, preaching nt St
rain's cathedral, said thero was no
good disguising tho fact that England
ns n nation needed both repentance
nnd hope. "Thoro of us behind tho
scenes In tho moral llfo of tho nntinn,"
he ndded, "know that In mnny wnys
things nro ns bud ns over thqy can
bo, and there nro some things so bad
thut they cannot ho alluded to with
propriety from this pulpit."
In a plea for n strong public opinion
ngnlnst evil, Canon Nowbolt pointed
out that If thero were no demand
there would bo no supply. If youth
would set Its fnoo ngnlnst Immodest
post cards and other evils, the supply
would cense. Much could h-j done by
n few resoluto men In purifying tho
ntmosphoro. "Let us," ho urged, "mnko
sin disreputable. Lot us make It
harder for men to do wrong than to do
right." London Times.
.Crops.
In Quebec the chief crop is hny. Tho
nren devoted to Its cultivation In 1015
wns ostlmntod to bo about n.COO.OOO
ncros, nml much of It wns exported nt
high prices. About 1,400,000 ncreiwcro
sown to oats, nnd tho crop wns nn ex
cellent one, both ns to quantity nnd
rjunllty, high prices being realized for
tho I'stlmnted yield of nl.out -i l.lklO.OOO
bushels harvested. Little lmrloy Is
raised In Quebec, but tho nren of
nbout S.",000 acres produced In tho
neighborhood of ftU.OOO bushels and
brought good prices. Tho wheat grown
In the Iirovlnco Is nil of the spring
wheat variety. Tho total crop In lOlfi
wns estlninteil nt l.-HT.OOO bushels, un
Increase of nearly r00,000 bushels over
10H.
Open.AIr Schools.
The first open-nlr school wns opened
In 1007. In 1010 thero wero but 111
such schools. Now It Is ostlmntod that
thero nro innro thnn 200 open-air
classes for tuberculous nnd iinenilc
children. Massachusetts has SO of
these, New- York 2, Ohio 21.
It has boon said that In nil cities
there should bo nn open-air school for
every 23,000 of tho population.
Proposed Amendments to the
Constitution of Missouri
COSSTITtlTIONAI.,
MENT.
AMI5ND-
.lolnt nm! fnnrnrrpnt rraollitlnn ub
mlltlnic lu (tin qnnlinl totrrt of the lt
nf Mlaaoiirl, nn Binendmrnl to thr Coo
tltiillon thrf-rnf. romrmlaff pensions to
tli (lrteMlnit litlml.
rir il ntcltrj by Iht Smell, Iht tlfit ef
Refretentatives eonCHrrintj ihtrtini
Tlmt nt ilie ccncrnl election to to lirifl
on Turmlny fnllowinB tlie flmt Monflny
In Nnvcinlpcr. lDlfl. tficre nhntl I milimlttea
!n the nunllflpil voters of Missouri, for Rilop
tlon or H-JoMlon. tlio following constitu
tional nmriMlincnt. to-wlt:
Tliot sifilon 47 of nrtlilo IV of tho Ton
trillion lip nnipnileil Iit nilillnc thereto
tho follonlnc wordni "I'mrliled further,
thnt nothlnc In this Constitution cfnitnlnea
hull lie n.nntrueil ns prohibiting the iren
eml nsemtilr from crnntlnff, or nnthom
Inir the k'rnntlni: of. pensions to tho lit
.ervliic litlml, ns lnny be provided nnd
reculnied by Inw."
HI!COl CONSTITrTIOXAI. AStr.NI-
Proposed by Initiative Petition.
To einponrr the I.rjfWliiturp of Mlnsonrl
to rrrte, liy apr-n low, n Ktnte I.nn(J
Hunk tilth power to loun ninne,r awirrel
by drcil nf Iruat on Hirrlctilturnl limits
nml to Uaue lifimlH, nntt nnthnrlxInK the
npproprlnlton or One Million Hollars U
OlM.lmo.lMI) nut of tho Stile Trenury for
thut iiiirpo.f., nml to exempt the enpltnl
mid hnmla of salil linnk from tnsntlon,
nml inllilnttnK nny lealstaUon heretofore
ennrtrtl for such purposes.
MISSOt'lIt STATU I.ANH ltNK AMI5NII
MK.NT TO Tin: CONSTITUTION.
Pruposeil by lecnl voters by lulltnllre
I'etltlons miller the Initiative nml liefer
cniluin l'ruvtslnns of the Constitution,
einpoiierlnt; the llenernl Assembly to en
net n speelnl law erentlng n cprporntlon tu
be known ns Iho Missouri Stnte Lnml llnnk,
with powers to mobilize nml liquidize farm
credits, to npproprtnto stnte moneys os
n lonn In ntd thereof, nnd vsemptlng from(
stnte, county and mmilclpnl tnxes nil of
the assets of sold hnnk, nlso debenture
bonds Issued by It, ..nd providing for tho
vnlldntlnt: of nny lnw enncted by the Oen
ernl Assembly ln necordnnco herewith.
Ue it tnactcd by Iht feoftt ot the Stale of'
Musouri thit the Constitution be to amended
al to frotiJc os follows:
Section 1. The Genernl Assembly Is here
by empowered to enpet n speelnl law to)
crente n corporation to tie known ns thel
Missouri Stnte I.nnd llnnk, with power to'
mnkc loans' on notes secured by deeds of
trust or mortgages upon ncrlculturnl lands,
and to Issue debenture bonds ngnlnst thei
snine with nil suitable and Incidental
powers. And to ennct other special Inwu.
nt the same nesslon or nt other sessions of
the IJenernl Assembly to nrnend nnd Im
prove the snld net, or to supply omissions
or correct errors or defects therein.
Section 2. The (Spnerul Assembly Is here
by authorized nnd empowered to enact a
lnw or laws appropriating ns a loan out of
the moneys of tho State Treasury, tho'
sum of one million dollars as n working
cHpltnl for snld corporation.
Section 3. The Oenernl Assembly Is.
hereby nuthorlzed nnd empowered to en
nct n law or Inws eieinptliiR from stnte.,
county and munldpnl tnxes tho assets of
snld Missouri State T.nud Hank nnd all de
benture bonds Issued by it.
Section 4. Any law heretofore enncted
by the fleneral Assembly ln accordance!
with the provisions of Sections 1, 2 npd at
hereof shall be deemed valid from nnd after),
the adoption hereof,
T1II1I1) CONST1TCTIONA1. AMEND
MENT. Proposed by Initiative Petition.
I'rolilhltlns nfter July nrst, 1917, the
mnnufMcture of, the Introduction Into, HndJ
the (Thin?, ezrhaniclng, Imrterlnir. selling?;
or disposing of Intojlrntlnir liquors In the)
Stnto of Missouri, r&rppt wine for saera-i
mrntnl purposes, prescribing- n penattri
for the violation thereof nml repeallns; all
parts of the Constitution, Stntutes and Mu-1
nlclpnl Lrfins in conflict therewith.
I'roposed nmendment to the Constitution
of Missouri, to lm submitted to the legnl
voters of the Stnte of Missouri for their'
npprovnl or rejection nt the regular gen
eral election to he held on the seventh day
of November. A. I). IMG. prohibiting tho
manufacture nf, the introduction Into, nnd
the giving, exchanging, bartering, selling,
or disposing nf Intoxicating liquors in the
State of Missouri, except wlno for sacra
mentnl purposes, prescribing a penalty for.
the violation thereof nnd repealing all parts
of the stato Constitution, stato aud Munic
ipal Laws ln conlllet therewith.
lie il enacted by the feofle of Ihj State .
Missouri :
Section 1. From and nfter Julv first.
WIT. no Inlnxlcntlng liquor or liquors,
except wine for sqcrnmentnl purposes., shall
he in u nil fur I u red In or Introduced Into the
State of Missouri under nnv pretense
livery person who sells, exchanges, gives,
barters, or disposes of Inlnxlcntlng liquor
of nny kind to nny person lu the Stnte of
Missouri, or who mauufnetures, or Intro
duces Into, or attempts to Introduce Into
tho State of Missouri. Intoxlentlng liquor
of nny kind: except wine ns nforcsnlil for
the purposes nforcsnlil ; shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor nnd upon conviction shnll be
punished by a lino of not less than three
hundred dollars nor more than one thou
sand dollars, or by Imprisonment In the
county Jail not less than six months nor
more tlinn twelie months, or by both such
fine nud Imprisonment.
All parts of tho Stnte Constitution, nml
Inws of the Stnte nnd municipalities there
in, conflicting with the provUluus of this
sectlou. are hereby repealed.
STATE Ol-' MISSOURI, )
Department of Stnte.
I, Cornelius ltnnch. Secretnry of State,
of the State of Missouri, hereby certlty
that the foregoing Is a full, true and com
plete copy of the one Joint and concurred
resolution, ot the 1'orty-elghth Conors! As-'-sembly
of tho Stato of Missouri of the pro.
posed amendment to tho Constitution of'
tho Stnte of Missouri; nlso, of the Iwrc
nniendnicnts to tho Constitution proposed
by Initiative petition, to tic submitted to'"
tho qunllfled voters of the State of Missouri'
nt the general election to ho held on Tiles.'
day, the seventh day of November. !!) 1
In testimony whereof. I hereunto set ,
my hnnd and affixed the Croat Senl of the
Stnte uf Missouri. Done at ofthv In tho.,
City of .letTerson this 3tli duy of Septcin.
Sean
or-3TATC
An authority says tho real history
of the great war will not he wrltteiv
until fiO yours havo passed. However)
tho schoolchildren won't havo to wnlt
thnt long before being assigned tii the
tusk of learning something nbout thu
conflict.
It Is declared thnt tiiauufucturers
nf leather substitutes nro turning out
ono that is superior to leather as mn
twin I for solos. No wonder thero uro
lenther men trying to keep prices of
their commodity from soaring too
high.
"Tho world owes a monument to
tho man who Invented tho tin enn,"
says tho Dr.ltlmoro American. Anil
n still higher ono to tho tellow; .Who
Invented tho can opener.
Tho theory that sour milk promotes)'
longevity has been shattered. Most
ot tho centenarians seem to reach old
uge without urcklng uny particular
effort. I
jwi
SECRETARY
