"i'MIWW
OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
OCT 10 1916
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, OCTOBER 7, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 25
One Dollar a Year
-
kbof'gyyvocate
non-partisan:
i?
if
i
The Ohio State Federation of
Should Do Its Full Duty Next Week at Toledo, Irrespective of Party Lines, and Endorse
Its Friend and Co- Worker, James M. Cox for Governor and Repudiate Frank B. Willis,
the Greatest Mountebank that Ever Occupied the Governor's Chair in the State of Ohio.
If Willis is Elected, the State Will Go Dry Before 1918.
WILLIS AND THE DRYS
Gov.- Frank B. Willis has an
agree in out with the Anti
Saloon League that In ex
change for their support at
the coining election he will
seo that Ohio will ho iimtle dry
heforo 1918, and after that
time the Governor will take
the lecture platform in the pay
of the Anti-Saloon League.
At the meeting of the Ohio Federa
tion of Labor on October 9th, the dele
gates should take up the question of the
next Governor of Ohio and leave par
tisan politics out of the proposition and
give the endorsement to "the man who
has bcenvtheJiest friend Organized La
1 bbftfeVerliadrinlftGoVcrnor-'sKair"
and judge him entirely on his work for
organized labor.
T.hc coming administration will be the
most important one for organized labor
that the State of Ohio has known in the
past twenty years. The insurance trust,
with the assistance of Frank B. Willis,
the present Governor, have organized
the campaign and collected a large sum
of money and engaged newspaper men
from various parts of the State to con
duct the campaign in an effort to de
stroy the Workmen's Compensation Act.
Their agents and friends have gone
so far as to state that they have fixed a
number of delegates of the convention
to be held at Toledo in an effort to make
the Federation appear to the public as
having two factions, one for and one
against the Workmen's Compensation.
Two years ago, when Frank B. Willis
was running for Governor, he made
numerous promises as to what he was
going to do for labor, but he has failed
to keep any one of them. On the con
trary, he tried to get the legislature to
amend the Workmen's Compensation
act so as to allow liability companies
to write business in the State, and when
the legislature refused to enact such a
law, he appointed one of his pals, nam
ed Taggcrt, as insurance commissioner.
Taggert had been given to him by the
insurance trust who put up the money
for Willis' election.
The first act of Taggcrt was to is
sue an order that insurance companies
could write business in the State of Ohio
in competition with the Workmen's
Compensation act, and within 48 hours
the State was overrun with four or five
thousand pirates who were telling mer
chants and manufacturers that the
Workmen's Compensation act was a
failure, and that the State, in order to
save itself, instructed the liability com
panies to write their insurance. These
falsehoods and misrepresentations be
gan to have their effect with the business
interests of the State and the members
of the Board of Industrial Commission
called on the Governor and requested
that lie nelp them get lunds to put agents
in the field to contradict the lies being
told by the agents of the liability com
panies about the Workmen's Compensa
tion act, but Governor Willis refused
to lend them any assistance, figuring
that his insurance friends would beat
the State out of the business.
Attorney General E. C. Turner, one
man in the Willis administration, not
controlled by thc Governor, went into
court on his own initiative and enjoined
the liability companies from doing bus
iness in the State of Ohio until the Su
preme Court had passed on the validity
of the law.
,..,.. ,,," i,s .s vv'. ..wv.v.v-'" A,..W -wv s-jjWV. .,''? '"'ffV'.'','f'V'Ai'W&
:J9'.S:
n2?(i
iCtiCii
S!3SiSi
wsBsmmr m - - mm , ', mmmmmmf', iM2mi'immmm
wemammxi. - Em,-- M-nw ""- m;msMmmmmmi
'twmmsmmmmssB! :. - tm , ,; , warn mm- i -mmmmmmmtt
i i i ii i vssj " wm-.jm mw:rlvi?' wf v'-&jw''.-ieuimi&sfi
EX-GOVERNOR JAMES M. COX
Democratic Candidate for Governor
A friend of organized labor, and an advocate and earn
est worker for the Workmen's Compensation Act and
Mothers' Pension Bill. 4.
Under Governor Cox labor received 23 favorable laws.
Governor Cox was the best Governor for labor that
Ohio ever had and a good fellow.
VOTE FOR HIM
THE TRUTH ABOUT WILLIS
"Republican Governor Frank B. Willis is conducting what the Cleveland Plain-Dealer
describes as 'a program of unashamed office brokerage, a reign of spoils unequaled in the re
cent history of the State.' The work of the legislature under him has been largely destructive."
Collier's Weekly, May 15, 1915.
If Mr. Turner had not shown his
friendship for labor and taken this step,
Willis' scheme to destroy the Workmen's
Compensation Act, through his hench
man Taggert, would have been a suc
cess, and the Workmen's Compensation
would have been a thing of the past.
In so far as labor is concerned, Gov.
Willis has been the greatest mountebank
that ever occupied so cxhalted a position.
Willis by nature is a "hick highway
man," as he will promise you anything
before election and after that he will
deliberately stand up and refuse to make
his promises good.
At the one session of legislature dur
ing his administration, organized labor
could not get a single thing from him.
They succeeded in passing one law call
ing for vestibules on summer cars, but
the Governor demurred about signing
it, as he stated "that it might make the
car too heavy on one end and it wouldn't
run," but when finally backed up against
the wall, he approved the bill, and as
far as labor legislation goes it did not
amount to anything, while on the other
hand he forced the repeal of miners'
gross weight bill, for which the miners
have been fighting for years and suc
ceeded in getting under Governor Cox.
In this controversy Willis acted hand
and glove with the coal operators and
against the miners.
The re-election of Willis would be the
greatest blow that Organized Labor
could receive in this State. It will also
be the elimination of the Liberal or Wet
interests of the State, as Governor Wil
lis is tied in an ironclad agreement with
Mr. White, State Superintendent of the
Anti-Saloon League, to destroy the
liquor interests in this State, if he is
re-elected again.
When Matt Glaser ran as a delegate
to the National convention, Willis went
GOVERNOR FRANK B. WILLIS
Republican Candidate for Re-election
The Willis administration has been against organized
labor. He has not kept a single promise except the one
to the Insurance Trust, that he would destroy the Work
men's Compensation act, and he used the full power of
his office to accomplish that end, but failed.
Labor received only one law under Willis, providing for
vestibules on summer cars and forced the repeal of the
Miners' Gross Weight bill.
He is no friend of organized labor and no good.
VOTE AGAINST HIM
right over to thedrys and pleaded for
their support, which was given to him,
and later when R. E. Mack ran against
him for the nomination of Governor,
Willis again sought the dry vote, but this
time they tied him up so strong that
he is absolutely bound to destroy the
liquor interests in Ohio and he- has an
agreement with the drys to go on a
lecture platform for them at a higher
salary than he received for Governor
when his term is up.
Knowing these conditions every dele
gate to the Ohio State Federation of
Labor, if he is interested in the pre
servation or the advancement of labor,
or if he is in favor of a liberal policy
in this State, it is his plain duty to go
back to his local, and whatever friends
he may have and advocate the defeat
of his enemy, Frank B. Willis, and the
election of labor's friend, Governor
James M. Cox.
Labor
COX AND THE LICENSE LAW
Governor James M. Cox took
the constitution as he found it and
thereunder enacted the Green-
lund License Law. He refused to i
make any deals with either the
wet or dry interests. When the
State-wide prohibition fight came
on Governor Cox took the stand 2
that the license of saloons, and
not prohibition, was the real solu
tion. UNION LABOR
Received More Favorable Lnws Un
der the Administration of James
M. Cox Than Any Other Half
Dozen Governors in the State of
Ohio.
j, .Cox, had. .been., air "employer of organ
ized labor for years and he understood
the conditions under which the men
were working and the relief that they
desired, and he lent a willing ear and
his influence to help better their condi
tions. Governor Cox should have been re
elected two years ago, but the public,
and German vote, did not understand
the real conditions.
When Cox was Governor, the drys
were insisting on a stricter legislation
against the liquor traffic. The license
amendment to the constitution had been
adopted. Mr. Cox stood by that amend
ment and had passed the Greenlund
act to place it in effect. He refused to
be frichtened into working an inius-
lice against any interest, but put into
law the order of constitution which
licensed saloons in Ohio. Under this
mandate he refused to assist in any
further restrictive legislation. The
Greenlund law was acceptable to all
classes and was endorsed by representa
tives of the brewery and saloon inter
ests who were of the opinion that this
"was the proper solution of the liquor
question. Mr. Cox has just recently re
affirmed his belief in the license system.
Because of his stand in this matter the
misled Drys defeated him in 1914, with
the aid of misguided Liberals, and eject
ed a Governor who would substitute
prohibition for the license sjstem, some
thing that Cox refused to do.
The following labor laws were passed
under Governor Cox's administration:
S. B. S Providing for three-fourths
of a jury rendering verdicts in civil
cases.
S. B. 33 Extending age limit of mem
bership in insurance societies to 70
years.
S. B. 48 Known as Workmen's Com
pensation Act.
S. B. 132 Providing for wages twice
in each calendar month.
S. B. 137 Providing for the creation
of an Industrial Commission to have
supervision over all State departments
relating to labor.
H. B. 35 Providing the least number
of men to be emplojed on switch en
gines. H. B. 49 Relating to the rights of ac
tion in case of death in a mine.
H. B. 50 Relating to liability for
wrongful injury or dcatli and the en
forcement of actions therefor.
H. B. 100 Providing for an eight
hour day on public works.
S. B. 298 Relating to the construction
and size of caboose cars.
H. B. Ill Relating to safety appli
ances upon railway locomotives and cars.
H. B. 145 Relating to the inspection
of safety appliances upon railroad loco
motives and cars.
H. B. 1C3 Relative to the employment
of females and regulating their hours of
emploj mrnt.
(Continued on page 2.)
1
fl
