TIHE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 190
A Democratic Journal, devoted to Local and eneral fNews, Literature, Science, Agriculture, 6tc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1916- NUMBER 51
, |
Oicial Proceedings of the Police Jury
of Grant Parish.
Colfax, La., Oct. 2, 1916.
The police jury met in regular
session. All the members were
presedt.
The minutes of the meeting of
Aug. 31 were read and approved.
Mr. Brownlee read a communi
cation from the chairman of the
managing committee for the lo
cation of a Federal Farm Loan
Bank at New Orleans.
On motion the following reso
lution was adopted:
Whereas. -New Orleans is the
metropolis of the South and the
logical clearing house for the
great live stock and agr:cultural
interests of the Mississippi Val
ley, and all of the Southern
States, the richest agricultural
section of the United States;
therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the opin
ion of the Police Jury of Grant
parish, Louisiana, that the said
city of New Orleans should be
the location of one of the new
Federal Farm Loan Banks to be
established by the United States
Government, because of its ac
cessibility to the interior points
in this section and being in the
midst of the South's greatest ag
ricultural territory, the develop
ment of which is dependent upon
such accessibility.
Be it further resolved, That a
copy of these resolutions be sent
to the senators and representa
tives of these Southern States at
Washington, and to the commit
--4 to secure a Federal Farm
Loan ~ at New Orleans.
On motion it i'-fell wing names
were ordered placed on the pau
per's list: Mrs. Angie Norris,
Mrs. T. H. Stewart, agent, Pol
lock, La.; and Joanna Van Dyke,
Mr. J. H. McNeely, agent, Col
fax, La.
A petition was presented ask
ing for the creation of a public
road leading from the Kateland
depot to a point opposite the
Boyce ferry. The petition was
accepted and the following nam
ed six freeholders were appoint
ed as reviewers to locate the
road, viz: A. A. Dean, Jno. Ran
dolph, T. C. Bush, Heman Smith,
Jerre Smith, Dr. Webster Smith.
A petition was presented ask
ing that a change be made in the
location of the Claiborne and Al
exandria public road, as follows:
Beginning at the town limits of
town of Dry Prong on the north
and following the main street on
the west side of the L. & A. rail
way to the town limits on the
south, thence in a southerly di
rection to the intersection of the
old road again at or near the
place of Mr. W. A. Butts. The
petition was accepted, and the
following six freeholders were
appointed as a committee of re
viewers to make and locate the
change asked for, viz: A. H.
Watson, Dr. D. V. Donaldson,
T. B. Morgan, J. W. Smith, Al
len Butts and J. W. Dees.
A petition was presented ask
ing that the public road out of
Crissy's creek bottom be changed
to leave the Colfax and Pineville
road at branch running through
A. Futrell's field, and follow the
land line running north to inter
section of the model road at Chas.
Sandifer's place. The petition
was accepted and the following
six freeholders were appointed as
a committee of reviewers to lo
cate the road: J. T. Flanagan,
C. E. Sandifer, O. L Nugent,
R. L. Parish, A. Futrell and J.
F. Lovell.
A petition was presented ask
ing that a bridge be constructed
- across a small creek on the. Col
fax-Pineville road, the same be
ing about one-quarter of a mile
from Bruce's mill
On motion a committeeof three,
consisting of Messrs. J. M. Jones,
Frank Hamilton and Oscar Hata
way, was appointed and instruct
ed to advertise for bids and to
contract for the building of the
above bridge and supervise the
construction of same, it being un
derstood that the cost of the
bridge shall be paid out of the
special tax fund of ward two,
the amount to be refunded to the
special tax fund out of the gen
eral fund whenever the general
fund shall be in condition to pay
same.
The petition asking for the cre
atjon of a public, road leading
from Bill Dyson's place, on the
old Montgomery road, by Eureka
church to the model road and
along the same to the number
two spur, and thence between
the land of C. O. Sharp and Mrs.
Mollie Christy to the ferry known
as Lemoine's ferry on Red river,
was taken up.
On motion it was ordered that
the petition be accepted and the
following six freeholders were
appointed as a committee of re
viewers to locate the road, name
ly: J. B. Starks, C. B. Guin, P.
Roshto, Ben Roshto, A. J. Morat
and J. E. Hickman.
On motion the following reso
lution was adopted:
Resolved by the police jury of
Grant parish, That all justices of
the peace and constables through
out the parish be and they are
hereby required to make a quar
terly report to the police jury of
all criminal work done by them;
that the clerk of the police jury
is instructed to have the neces
sary blanks printed and furnish
ed to the said officers, and that
no constable or justice of the
peace will be paid his salary un
less he has made such report to
the clerk of the police jury on or
before the first Monday in Janu
ary, April, July and October of
each year.
The committee of reviewers ap
pointed to locate the road leading
from the Lake school house to
the steel bridge on the Colfax
and Montgomery model road,
made a report.
On motion the report of the
committee was accepted and the
road as laid out by the commit
tee was declared to be a public
road. A. St. Andre was appoint
ed to be overseer of that part of
the road extending from the
Lake school house to the Big Pine
Lbr. Co. tram crossing at the old
corral; and D. F. Williamson was
appointed to be overseer of that
portion of the road extending
from the old corral to the steel
bridge.
On motion Mr. H. M. Denton
was appointed to be road appor
tioner for ward six to fill the va
cancy caused by Mr. J. A. Ful
ler being over age.
On motion the name of Mrs.
Jane Sneed was stricken from
the paupers' list, she having
moved out of the parish.
Capt. C. H. Teal, President of
the Grant Parish Jefferson High
way Association, addressed the
police jury on behalf of that as
sociation. He stated that the
Jefferson Highway is to traverse
the parish from north to south
passing through wards seven, six,
one and two, and asked that the
police jury create and establish
a road district, to be designated
as Road District No. 8, made up
of the territory adjacent to the
highway. He suggested that the
road district should embrace
wards seven, six, one and that
part of ward two lying west of a
line that would be fixed and
agreed upon by the police jury.
Mr. George C. Purvis, mem
ber of the police jury from ward
To Every True American
Woodrow Wilson's fight is your fight.
He has put equal justice above special privilege, human rights
above property rights, national honor above organized greed,
and democracy over all.
The Child Labor law, the Federal Reserve act, the Clayton
Anti-Trust law, Workmen's Compensation, Rural Credits, the
Shipping bill, the Federal Trade Commission, the Seamen's
act, the Tariff Commission and the Agricultural Extension act
may well stand as the ten commandments of America; his in
ternational policies proclaim to the world America's recovery
of the ancient faith, America's renewed devotion to demo
cratic ideals. Woodrow Wilson has given you prosperity
with justice and peace with honor.
What are you giving him?
How much does it mean to you that business is
How to Contribute to no longer at the mercy of panics, that credit and
the Wilson Campaign enterprise have been released from captivity,
Fund that the standards of America are now the stand
ards of civilization, and that the heart of the
.° --,. ý.* t- ,?h `s. land is not torn by the wailing of widows and
.im t,9..:. thMe C "' orphans, the slow shufling of the blind and the
I.ue ns check mo *7 ord and maimed?
dre a ri to ~t7 America today is no less a battle-ground than in
otee, De.ocrahac Natia. ooCe Ci. 1776 and 1861, and Woodrow Wilson is no less
tee, 30 East Forty-.necod Street, New the champion of liberty than Washington and
York City. Lincoln.
_ Money, however, is the present weapon. . It takes
Woodorow, Wilon icash to run a campaign.
Campaign Fund Only from the people, the one master that he has'
served, can Woodrow Wilson receive campaign
LOYALTY COUPON aid. Clean money for clean purposes.
°°' , . To contribute is your duty even as it should be:
t. 4r e.* ,. your privilege. Send it in now.
A.. ... . ... d.. What one of you would not fight todefend your
V. t ."" d t d "t..., e home and your country against foreign foes?
..to. ..g~'. Fight, then, sainst enemies within that hold'
..~e . ......... greater mena e than any foe without.
Mum Do not serve notice upon all future Presidents
that faithful service is folly, since the electorate
w-................................ is without gratitude, interest and antelligence.
a.. ............................ Every dollar contributed is payment on America's
insurance policy.
. ........... .............. Don't let it lapse.
PbIn"" i "" Even as you have received generously; give ten
........................................ eropsly. Even stint to give. America was built
on sacrifice.
The Democratic National Committee has authorized The Colfax Chronicle to as
sist in the collection of the Wilson Popular Campaign Fund. Send in your contribu
tion TO-DAY. Use the above coupon. Your contribution will be acknowledged in
the columns of this paper and you will get a handsome receipt from Treasurer Wilbur
W. Marsh, of the National Committee.
seven, presented a petition sign
ed by one hundred forty-four cit
zens of the eastern portion of
that ward, asking that all that
part of ward seven lying eastof
a line running from north to
south between ranges four and
five west be not included in the
Jefferson Highway Road District.
He also presented a petition sign
ed by thirteen citizens of his
ward asking that the territory
lying between the line common
to rang s four and five and east
of the Nantachi bayou, be not in
cluded in the Jefferson Highway
Road District.
Mr. Milton O'Quinn, of Verda,
addressed the police jury urging
that the eastern part of ward
seven should be left out of the
Jefferson Highway Road District.
Mr. B. D. Fletcher, of Verda,
also addressed the police jury for
the same purpose.
At the conclusion of Mr. B. D.
Fletcher's address, on motion,
the police jury adjourned until
Tuesday, October 3 at 9 o'clock
a. m.
W. A. BROWNLEE,
President.
Miss H. E. CAMERON,
Clerk.
For a Maddy Compleeion.
Take Chamberlain's Tablets and
adopt a diet of vegetables and cereals.
Take outdoor exercise daily and your
complexion will be greatly improved
within a few months Try it. Obtain
able everywhere.-Adv.
PLANT CLOVER LANDS IN EARLY OUIBD[R
Different Varieties for Diferent Sois and Coaditiom.
Early October is the best time for plantng clovers, provided the sies
Is favorable. In early growth they do not withstand drought as well a sum
of the crops that grow more vigorously, and this should be given consi'~ra
tion. Most Louisiana soils outside the alluvial districts that have nuour
grown clovers require Inoculation.
The medium red is the best varlety for the bluf lands, the better dra Ie
alluvial soils and the better quality of clay soils of the hills. Under fa ver
able weather conditions this variety will furnish excellent grasing by the
middle of January. It comes to maturity during May, being.about two wolkst
later in the northern part of the state than in the southern. In the alluvial
lands two tons of dried hay per acre is not an unusually large yield, and a
second cutting of three-quarters of a ton to one ton to the sua should be
expected about the frst week in July. It will afford good grasin up to the
first or the middle of July it left for that purpose. Sow eight to twelve pounds
per acre and cover very lightly, or roll.
The crimson clover is better suited for the sandy soils than the medmLn
red. It is easier to establish on the soil' and to produce a larger supply oe
home grown seed, but it is more difficult to cure, and makes practically mo
second growth. Sow twelve to sixteen pounds per acre and cover lightly.
Alslke clover will grow on some stiff and poorly drained lands that are
not suited to the other clovert. Otherwise it has no advantages to offer. It
will not make quite as much hay to the acre as will the medium red.
Bur clover is more useful in covering had eEhlng the soil, and i fur
nishing pasturage, than ad a bay crop, though it makes fairly good bay 'hen
propertly cured. If not pastured too closely or harrowed before the buts are
mature, it may be counted on with moderate certainty to reseed the land. Bur
clover mixed with Bermuda grass makes excellent grazing. If turn under
it aRords a goodly supply of vegetable matter, rich it nitrogen, as fertillser.
Live stock generally do not relish bar clover at Srta, bat will soon term a
liking for it. It is best to sow seed in the urs--the equivalent of eigtt pounds
per acre of cleaned seed.
White clover is a valuable addition to a permanent pasture. especlady
for hogs and sheep, and may be grazed safely by cows, also, utea proper
precautions against blkt are observed. Four to six pounds of sed per acre
will make asucient seed crop to thoroughly sod the pasture the secoad pear.
All of the cloves enrich the sol; all are winter-growing pLsMts; all make
bay rich In protein, and, therefore, are excellent to combine with aorm, tending
to baelan the ration. They make excellent feed, green or cured, for dsary
'tek epeelaly.
W.R. ODUON,
a's - t .ss-r, na'--W s sats UuiusanMe
%- --r.. -  -.  • - ,-"
• ~ ~ ~ ~ CT • . ...  -.
Cash Prizes For
Boys' And Girls'
Clubs in Grant
The undersigned have sub
scribed the amounts opposite
their names for the purpose of
making up a cash premium list
for the members of the boys corn
and pig clubs and the girls to
mato and poultry clubs of Grant
parish, for their exhibits on dis
play at the fair at Hargis on Oe
tober 12th and 13th. Cash will
be given to the prize winneai at
the fair.
Bank of Colfax.................10.00
Colfax Hardwood Lbr. Co.. 1000
Big Pine Lbr. Co.............. 10.00
latt Lbr. Co..................... 0.00
Grant Timber & Mfg. Co.. 10.00
J. W. Duncan Co., Ltd...... 5.
W. 0. Harrison ............. 00
Bank of Pollock ............... 00
W. A. Brownlee......... .. .9.
E. S. Murrell ................... A2
J. H: McNeely ................. 2-
W. Payne Harrisop........... L0
There are other progressive
business men in the parish that
will probably make a donatios
to this premium list, but Mr.
Benton, parish agent, has t
been able to see them thui far.
Prof. Warner and R H. Bens
ton, parish agent, will set as a
committee to select the premium
list and award the prises.
The fair at Hargis will be hel'
on Thursday and Friday of maex
week. At this fair, exhibits at
club members work will be mads
as well as various exhibits of
live stock and farm prodoeuts b
adult farmers of the parish.
Don't forget the date. EKrP*
body come. Hargis, October 1
and 18.
Mbmaeu Oeeupdle..
"Ad whee is yo.r daughaer i
ae this year, Mrs. Noe 'r asft -
vitaor. "Why," sami tam M It
"almlal wasts to be a tear tio
meowe sceame, sam e's r llo -
coarse to bossehoid deriaasmb
sows at th Abasm i n at.
iurn. _ _ _
I "II
Two - were area tskisg ae
heir respective soe ars' ats at ss
Ism sad mo remarked. "Wla. I
Arm e te Sow lerges, 26Y, t
-pr a the s OaSm Ia
this lmI' "-Chi d eh t"er
ore Thi1g M****k.
A OGearest wiow ere that * -
as one or two s aesr owhse 06
could set a boetad, but Ua ca0
has always wasted is a wibe sam
opera doak.--seve.tis News. S
"De yea ibhuk Miss ou11 wv ft
-a.. her nld masd arryr "
If mearise It wld e bem _,es
-a ofher r eeuaeshes ehames
miad."-Rm T.'lmeaD ise, -
Are Yoar sidrnys
Mamy Ceiha Peepie Nave Eas We
The hit symptom of kIdMaep atre
gwy be ely a slight p is the beth
a fte sln of srtiinss sesoews (I
os r -om ammorlie tlrrelism .
disiooor wIsmad peribpe ssie m t
upon startjng. Net may ee a 4s
throbMbing bkace, s:harp, alflw
pa hbead ss, dislaes s md i
cases Ilmeuse wb5 arishg is the
morning. NV - san aed to deby
a-i thes t te6as becoLme i
Begia ming Doem's EidMoy Pils, te
trlg ad tested kid.e. remes thai
be wornthe prdM e of themesads. C.l
fax readers abdoad dcasvisig psed
ofmerit in the f'ohwlg statemo
Clovs Daigle, aS Jmi ss.ed As.
Plsqseemne, La., says: 'I was mba.
lag fres my kidaes sal back whe I
medicine remverd the truble sad t
tide day I have bess free Lu. .1
signs of kidney cosplelat. .
rice r at all duelers. Dest' ebm.
ly skor Sa idMey remedy-- eDes'.
Kdmey Pils-the same thus Me, D.4
gle &ad. etar-3 s.r C.*. P
