(TiI"fiMFM A DOrCC wc miy defy open or insidious enemies of
uivcim m rriLt nbcrtyB h in.t,ucts ihc public mlnd and
animates the spirit of patriotism. Its loud voice suppresses every tninc which would raise itself
against the public liberty, and its blatins rebuke causes incipient despotism to perish in the
bud. . . . The contest of the ages has been to rescue liberty from the jasp of executive
power. On the long list of champions of human freedom there is not one name dimmed by
the approach of advocating the extension of executive authority. Daniel IFcbsttr.
Thlt It Number 285
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINE: THE DEADLIEST MENACE TO FREE INSTITUTIONS AND LIBERTY!
A ROMANIST STAGES ,
fflERARCHTS BOGIE
Mab'oa picture Schme WeaHLeaa
te lafereace KHmq U Rerpo
bUe for ABetta Ptmcvtiea
at Mexican Qern
FILMS APPEALED TO PASSIONS
TO POINTS AT ISSUE
Personal AttcBtioa Gvea Now to
CctrreuioDal CommiHre May
Mlaa Report on Resolutions at
CoibIb Session of Coogrets
TIIE LEAGUE DESIRES ACTION
He Wor!T Exposure Causes Fail-
ore of the PUa to Draf Re
Cfloa bio Politics
On September ISth. the New
York World with ita usual enter
prim; and kern scent for news acn-
rations latl hare a scheme that up
to that hour had progressed smooth
Iv and rapidly a scheme that out
llertxlt all previous contemptible
and disreputable effort to defeat a
riIont by unjustifiable inuen'
doe, baseless inference and mis
leprescntationa.
The Khemo in ita obviously in
tended iltimat$ result waa worthy
ct the Jesuitical cunning that no
lesa than the moral obliquy shad
owed forth in tha doctrines of
niental reservation and tha "end
Justifies tha meant haa marked the
action or thee incessant poiiuca
meddlera and trouble makers of el
government.
The facta aa brought out, imack
of political Romanism at every step
aa will be presently ebown, but for
the moment we recur to the IVorU'i
exposures that cm ted consterna
tion in the camp of the plotters and
ultimately led to the discarding of
tho whole outrageous matter, but
n.t until enough had been dragged
into the light to pro a boomerang
to all concerned. The film company
haa dropped 111 Reid. and the
national committee, in riew of the
ration-wide indignation expressed
by decent citizens, haa decided in
the picturesque parlance of the
street, to "can" the proposed pro
duction. A Story of Sham
Briefly the facta are aa follows:
one Hal Rcid, a Roman Catholic,
arranged with the Republican cam
paign committee to produce a
scenario which would luridly por
tray on the films the alleged out
rages said to have been perpetrated
by bands of revolutionary Mexican
soldiers during the past few years.
These it waa intended to connect
with the president of the United
States, by implication and with all
the subtle power of illustrations un
justifiably associated, with the ob
yioua purpose of appealing to the
passions of umniormea ana un
thinking people in such a way aa to
lead them to regard I'restdent U
son as re? po risible for alleged out
rages such as too frequently occur
during revolutionary periods in
lands that have for centuries been
under the iron heel of hierarchical
or political despotisms.
To the thoughtful student of his
tory the outrages alleged to have
taken place are profoundly instruct
ive and suggestive, showing as thev
do th real railage of four hundred
titan of Roman Catholic despotism,
Roman Catholic religious training,
education ana oppresnve qotcrn
ment. Here is a land in which the
Roman Catholic church, save dur
ing brief intervale, haa completely
dominated the government and the
people.
Until the adoption of the Laws of
Reform no renown but th$ Roman
tCatholir was permitted by the con
e'itution to be preached or taught
in MctL-o while the education of
the people trot wholly in the hande
of church. There are less than
er cent of Protestants in the
.. ation of Mexico; and yet we
Ifter four hundred years of
- ic rule, the people in the me
; period of the last century
;the opening yeara of the
wn century evincing a hatred
for the hierarchy and the priest-
hood that finds no parallel in mod
era Protestant lands, while the con
tempt for the persons of the nuns
i - - il. : . : r - : v
! wo 1 1 ,n iiriPRiM. ii a i 1 1 l ii .
hn In rid !.rie which the hier
archy has been disseminating arc
true, afford a startling illustration
of the result of parochial schooling
and Roman Catkotlc religious edu
cational training, thil should not be
lott upon the American public.
Rome'a Bogie Revamped
This attempt to bring before the
public, matter in which political
!S?2 SFf-Ji MUST PAY ATTENTION
cflort to utilize the alleged out
rages which Rome in her press and
through her accredited speaker
mm larJinal O'.unnell and Con
signor Killey down, have been in
dustriously using in a frantic at
tempt not unfrewnently accom-
Knied by veiled threaie to get
-esideut Wilaon to further the po
litical plans of the clerical or R
man Catholic hiersnhv in Meiim.
The World in it strv etWlV
the dnntardly scheme rai.l:
Krhtfioa i to I Ujert. into lb po-
htK.I rmfig Ir t k-l'ul.if
IiumI Commit ii- ilfciB ll ett 'k,
rrorlie( to rrart plu, tbtoujh lb
ifiMmmroUlitT of Mutmf Irtur
tiawvi oa rrntha rril'n y IUI Urni
I pro-tur-l ,r Mr. V.eiA, tel t
trrll Colt'jr, former l'rtrri tte
MBiter of Nr Jrt-jr bd.I bow n
ln mrmtvr of ttv Brputlnmo Nttiuual
CommillM.
On of the rbirf f th liboto-
rUr how b croup of lalkolic Bub
firming tB trrror from a laJ of iiliiia
brfor a eoavent tn Mriiro. Thrjr r
o'rrtakrn, eito.l by ti Mriifaa ta !lt
and dragged lato th nadergroirth,
aeraamiaf and prottatipg. lottaaltT
Uirr 1 flatbed aa tb arrrca a pirtur
boaiog rreaolrbt VootmT Vilon at
bl detk ia WathingtoB, hi bra 1 rnling
oa b. arm, Wp.
The move depicting the imag
inary outrages which are star fea
tures of Reid's lurid scenario was
staged at Sheepshead Ray and some
members of the National Guard
were performers in the plsy. In
spetking of the wsv this indecent,
not to say immoral realitie spec
tacle, gotten up by this Romnn
Catholic aspirant for fsme, af
footei onlookers, the World says:
Tb staging was rot done In Miie,
it waa doae at fbeepabead Hay. Un of tbe
World inforniaol aa: "Tb irsiilent
of tb immediat luralitjr were horrifled
by tb oro when tb oMer draped
the aunt into tb thirkrt, diorubiog and
otbemia aaMultiog them."
The iroWJ further said :
It wa alto learned that mm ef Mr
Reid' friBla, when told of kit new
photoplay, tipreasad themaelrr in sub
atanre follows: " I do not brlitr that
I bar ever liatrned to anrtbiuir that
bows auc-h real rottennoaa in polili"a a
this idea of tha licpubltean National
CommUto."
'It it tbe mnat dissiiating thing I
ever liMened to."
'It ronstitutra a arriet of delilerato
and studied insult to th nation chief
eseeutir."
i:
i
(
y
I.
On September 21st, the World
thus refers to the ignominious shelv
ing of this disreputable and dis
creditable film.
Into tb ratecory of thlngi to b for
gotten aa quickly a poaaibla has gone
lb great "dramaticiam" entitled
"Watckful Waiting" which tb Repub
licaa National Committee one believd
would win rote for Cbarlra K. Hughp.
Thoa arrne enacted under Author Hal
Reid's direction upon th shore of
Bbaepihead Bay, thoa historic incidents
to enjoyed ia tb making by Everett Col
by of New Jemey, will neither gladden
nor enlighten th voting or general pub
lie. The a. O. r. photoplay bat been,
vulgarly speaking "canned."
The Hidden Hand Again
l crsons laminar with the war
political Jiomamsm works behind
tlie scenes, especially if thry are ac
quainted with the vigilance of the
Jtoman Catholic hierarchy in over
looking all important steps taken by
"sons ot the church that might
have important political besring on
future atTairs, will not tor a mo
ment imagine that political Roman
ism had no knowledge of this im
ponani theatrical visualization on
the screens of the wild, sensational
and lurid stories uhick the hier
archy's agent have been eo actively
exploiting for the purpose of pre
venting President Wilson from rec
ognizing the Carranra government,
and for promoting public opinion
favorable to clerical domination in
the sitter republic.
Mr. Reid admits that the proposal
did not come from the Republican
national committee. That Mr. Reid
ii a Roman Catholic, was clearly
indicated bv "The Boston Trarrlhr"
wnen on September iMh, aiisi
Xiver a Roman Catholic film cen-
sor oi i niiauenniia. in aiscusBinzi
another photoplay said in referring
to Mr. Hal llc,'"Latrr Reid called
m up on the 'phone and told me
of being a- convert to the Catholic
church." Such a person would be
nr. ideal character to play the po
tentially important part for Homo J
at the present tune, when the nomi
nations on both tickets lack :nnch
of what the Roman Catholic polit
ical machine could deire.
Candidates and Roman Machine
Mr. Hughes, with his Baptist
raising and aiLliations is proliably a
And Statesmen From AD Parts of
U. S. Are Declaring. Ibemselvei
ia Favor of Investigation
If Houk Joint Resolution No.
introduced into .congrvM by
Congressman Lindliergh of Minne
sota, at the request of the Free
1'reM IVfcnse League, is to be re
ported out of the committee on rules
in the fhort session of congress be-
cinning in December and closing in
March, some rcallv active work will
need Id le done. We appreciate the
fact that great numbers of our
workers are circulating petitions
and obtaining signature thereto,
and there is no question but that
the mammoth petition, when
wheeled into congress, will be a rec
ord breaker. It will have an influ
ence as but few things can. How
ever, it is necessary that we give
the committee or. rules some special
personal attention.
The chairman of that committee,
Roht. L. Henry of Waco, Texas, has
not yet been approached by our peo
ple, so far as we have been able to
ascertain. Then the other members
of that committee: Edward V. Pou
of Smithfleld, North Carolina;
Finis I. fiarrett of Dresden, Tcnn. ;
Martin 1). Foster of Olney, 111.;
James C. Csntriil of Georgetown,
Kv.; Pst Harrison of Gulnort,
Miss.; Thomas O. Patton of New
York, N. V.; Thilip P. Campbell
of Pittsburg, Kan.; Irvine L. Len
root of Superior, Wis.; William 8.
Bennett of New York, X. Y.; and
B. M. Chiporflcld of Canton, 111..
hould all bo approached and in
formed on the points at issue by
well informed parties. We do not
ndvocate trying to coerce these men
into reporting favoranlv on the res-
I ut ion. We mcrclv ak that they
l.e correctly informed as to points at
issue, and we will be glad to as-
ist in any way we can. through lit
erature, letters or otherwise, in
reaching them with the argument;
an argument that to us seems con
clusive.
Each of the above named con
gressmen are parliamentary experts.
They are influential members of
congress and are deserving of court
eous treatment and a right to their
opinions. However, we ehould as
sist them in forming their opinion,
by furnishing them with informa
tion such as they will not be fur
nished with from other sources. It
ie hardly to be expected that these
men, surrounded by pressing mat
ters of every kits!, havt given much, I
if any attention, to the activities
of political Rome; and neither ia it
Lii!:kely that thry have overlooked
Die tvrrji iou a-tititic of Rome's
p-iliticun. berai.-e they have not
esMciatcd the al'Jistions of the
politicians with their attempted
However, a through going-over
of the ground for the past few years
will routine) anv person of the
probable need for an Investigation,
eten thmigli he ti ay Count the alle
gation set forth in the league's pe
tition. The league has rcorted to
the highest court in the land with a
democratic remedy for a thoroughly
tin-American practice. The Ieagne
desires to drive religion out of poli-
tn and keep it out. It seeks to
do so by an exposure of the ever in
treasing activities rf those mho are
ir.Jecling religion into politics, and
noes not wish its mends to em
ploy boycott or any other un-American
practices in obtaining action
through the committee on rules.
We insist upon a campaign of
education and we appeal to you who
reside in the home states, (especial
!y in the district they represent),
of these congressmen to assist tis
and suggest ways and means by
which these men can be properly
reached. The coming session of
congress will be the greatest in his
tory, if we can but obtain the pas
sage of the League's resolutions.
lift us laW to that end, remember
ing that this is the first serious at
tempt ever made to procure an in
vest i gat ion of political Romanism
liefore a court of inquiry.
To all who are not in harmony
with the patriots desire for this in
vest igat ion the unanswerable argu
ment that this H Homes greatest
opportunity to tindicste herself if
the charges are false should ne sui
ficient answer. Surely, if sincere,
Rome will not object to Investiga
tion on the contrary all the pow
ers of that mighty organization wu
ioin forcea with the patriots and
protest at every drTay that threatens,
However, it is a notable fact that
Rome is making no demand for the
investigation and this attitude on
the part of the accused Is probably
partially responsible for the support
which statesmen are according am
promising to tho Resolution. Since
A. V. IafTcrty of Portland, Oregon
so boldly announced his stand on
the question, others have followed
of whom Carl W. Thompson of Win
Chester, Indiana, an ardent sup
porter of all that standa for good
irovernment. is by no means in
least notable.
Othera in Wisconsin and other
states have also declared thcmsejve
in favor of the Resolution to trusted
friends or openly and. on the
vi hole, the outlook is very encourag
ing. With Uiese things in mind, we
should lose no time in assuring our
selves that the Resolution will bo
reported out of the Committee on
rules at the coming session of cou
press.
FLORIDA'S SHAMENOW,
A BENEFACTION LATER
Supreme Court Tales Desiooatic
NtBuaatjoi for Covrrnor from
Stiaey J. Catts an. Gves
It to W. Y. Knott
ans friends are indignant
Will Place Him en tbe Independent
Ticket Has Already Beta Nomi
nated by Prohibition Party
The influence of Rome and rum
as temporarily triumphed in Flop
da. the judge of the supreme court
at Tallahassee having just decided
favorable to . . Knott, the de
feated candidate, the mandamus
mcecdinirs recently brought by
him demanding the election board
to recount the ballots in certain pre-
cincta, the result of such recount giv
ing Knott the democratic nomina
tion for governor over Sidney J
Catts by twentv-one votes, and
forcing the board to issue another
certificate of election at the June
primaries to W. V. Knott.
Readers of Tnt MexacB arc al
ready familiar with the underhand
typically Roman Catholic meUirs
mod against Jlr. ta.u by the .vtate
diniooratic commitle: when he nM
unnouneed his candnla-v M re the
primaries, by attempting to disnjal
ify his constituency in advance w th
a ruling that any democrat who be-
'onged to a secret society which li
anything to do with matters pi t
h r.l should not be allowed to vo
The brazenness and utter disre
gard for the rights of free ciiizn-
hip in this first move were so ap
parent that the people revolted and
forced the committee to rescind its
action.
But the Romanized, rum-oaked
winir of the Florida democracy was
not to be outdone by the more de
cent citizenship, so they backed
their candidate in his scheme to se
cure the certificate of nomination
by ntiy means that would secure the
desired end.
Tho first recourse- of a defeated,
dissruntlcd candidate, of course, is
to resort to a contest a recount of
the ballots. Knott was permitted
by the supreme court to recount the
ballots in certain precincts, and, as
was to be expected, HIS recount
gave HIM the lead.
This lead is accounted for by
newspapers and the very best citi
zens of the state in allegations to
the effect that ballots were changed,
mutilated and thrown out to suit
the convenience of Mr. Knott, and
charges of wholesale fraud and theft
of ballots have never been success
fully contradicted. Yet in the face
of these charges, and in the face o
the fact that the canvassing board
brought to court evidence to show
that the balht boxes Lai been in
securely kept since the primary, and
ritnewe to prove that tai.ot at the
recount had been tampered with and
new marks made on tliem, this Ko
manued supreme judge waa two
days making up his mind to let this
evidence come out from the witness
stand, and then finally ignored it
in the end.
On the strength of Knott'a OWN
recount of the ballot in certain
precincts, his attorneys aked the
can aing board to recount the
amended returns. This they re
fund to do, whereutHin the attor
neys for Mr. Knott then secured an
alternative writ of mandamus to
force the board to .how taiiso ahy
the re-ount should not be made.
This is the way the case got before
the supreme court, and was the'
means ucl bv Jlr. Mioti, tnroun
the favor of a Romanized court, to
tcal the nomination from Sidney
J. Catts and have t In name f W.
THE ROMAN OCTOPUS
IN THE EMERALD ISLE
Papal Metbods and Ortanizatioa
For ControOiBf tie Irian Race u
Revealed by Heir Own
Approved Pamphlets
THE METHOD OF PROCEDURE
Every Action of Bigots Would Be
Anticipated by Intelligent Heads
Eager to Defeat Tbem
Pr ERNEST PHlUJra
V. Knott idaivd on tho democratic
tii kit as the nominee of the demo
cratic party for governor of Florida.
Notwithstanding this wholesale
fraud and persecution heaped upon
a single man by the reactionary ele
ment of the whole state of Florida,
Sidney J. Catts will be overwhelm
ingly elected governor in November
if every patriot standa at hia post
and sees to it that an honest elec
tion is held and an honest count of
the ballots is had.
The Catts campaign committee is
working diligently, and under a
provision of the Florida statutca an
independent candidate's name must
bo placed on the ballot if five thou
sand qualified electors petition the
election board to have it done. The
committee savs that it will not onlv
li ItiK ri-iiiriil nimilx-r Lot thnt
(Continued on Fage 2, Column )
How Rome Loves Freemasonry
In the Brooklyn Tablet for Bepl 0 there Is a question from eome one of the Tablet
readers wanting to know the chief reason for Rome's opposition to rreemasonry and why she
forbids her Catholic sons Joining this fraternity. The questioner says he had read much liter
store on the position taken against rreemasonry by Rome's alleged church. The answer as set
forth by the Tablet is in part aa follows : f
"The best writers on the subject hold that the church is against rreemuonry chiefly be
cause she regards It as a heretical religion. There is no question that religion plays a promi
nent part in the workings of Freemasonry and that in practice men are wont to accept its
measure of religion as satisfying without providing for regular attendance at any church. Tha,
pope empowered to watch over the religion taught humanity by the Son of God, must of
necessity frown down upon any creed whether professedly a creed or not which endeavors
to bring Christ's doctrine to man without submission to bis infallible teaching authority.-
So again, we see the Catholic press, with the sanction of the Right Rev. Monslgnors
Joseph McNamee, Jas. J. Coan, E. J. McColrick. and John L Whelan together with the ap
probation of the Right Rev. Chas. E. McDonald acknowledges and gives publicity to the fact
that the Roman church does undoubtedly oppose Freemasonry; that said church brands it
as a heretical religion and the pope frowns down upon what HE IS PLEASED TO CALL a
professed creed, because masonry has not seen fit to submit its ritual to hia "infallibld"
blue pencil in order that he might cull the truly American principles therefrom.
That Rome still emphatically opposes Freemasonry in language that admits of no mis
understanding is not news to th informed, but to those who believe that an exchange of
courtesies between the pope's loyal knights sj?d Masons oan be referred to as a "pleasant
episode" and possibly regarded as a closing of the breach between popery and Masonry, the '
above quotation from the Tablet should serve as an eye-opener. "His holiness" is not going
to sanction Freemasonry or any other organisation over which he does not exercise by right
of his boasted "Infallible Teaching Authority'1 full control
TW MlMtai larunt mm fci frM
U a ( spoti! BhiIm r-r-p4ai.
Mr. fSillip m aihar mt
Mf ! tllUMf M MM lag Ull l
mm f'ataol" kWfatra? U vatM-aMa
MarBlaa aaaratlaf aiiaa la ail Uaaa far
It raalral aS Ik aunki a far
Ml aa tha aarala f awlaaaa ataaf
ml la tara a( (caaaaav law alar -4
laailra. aa4 aUawtrMallr
laaate. arlarlalaa aai art
taaial 4aMriarr. Tha ralailaaa af
tha aaaiahlai aaa fcr Mr. ThUliaa ara
la aarfart awalaf araMiaaa
trlhMr af a aiaiilar rharaatar aaxh haa
raackaa tha arlttHMa a tha (raal Baaiaa
laihalM hwrarcktcal ataaaUailaa. Iha
Aaurtraa raarattoa af alhalM HachHtaa.
hi bai aa B-aia aaaalara iha harratt.
rahla af Iha araaa. J-aaHIal atathaaa
aata.alag varnt lafanaallaa thai will
aartrh iha rtaita aa lanim aauiwai
aaaar af Iha kiararrhr. ImiiiI af aa.
laailaf baraalf with Iha waaaaaa af 4a
BMrrar. rhv. Imlia af aaa. raaa,
aaartahlr. aaaal nthw far aU cfcarrfcaa.
aaS aaaaala la aU aah raalaaoala
aaaana af 4ailaai aa tha aar. aha
arataa hanalf tha arch aaaaia af llhrral
Sraarrar aaS haaiaa rlahia aaS ahaahl
ha iii aa tha art aiatoiar aa4 Saa
trraaa faa af llWral Saaiarrarr. arafra
aa4 aahihiaaaival. all af a-hlra aaa4
mpmn frr4aia. aaaalHr af rlrhia. " aa
parlanllrChalrataa af Iha E4Marlal
Haara.
I will be just as easy to nave nlty
thousand signatures to the )etitions,
and that thtu are going to get them.
Not only that, but the rrolulu-
tion party of the state ot Honda
just recently nominated Mr. CatU
as it canoidate Pr governor, aim
should the high hand of Home ami
rum continue to rule and thwart th.
will of the masses of the people to
the last hour of the campaign, there
will still be a chance of success.
Not onlv that, hut democrats can
scratch the name of V. . Knott
and insert the name of Sidney J.
Catts, should his name not appear,
and that is what thousands of them
will do before they will swallow the
dose of papal poison prepared for
tnem by Knott and hia henchmen.
If Republicans and Socialists will
do likewise, Catts will come out
with such an overwhelming major
ity that Knott will never want to
tackle another proposition as Knot
ty as defeating a man who does not
train with the Knots and Whatnots
Popery.
So far as this world s goous is
concerned Mr. Catta is a poor man
but ho is rich in character, high
ideals and nobility of purpose
His friends have come to his res
cue financially as they have other
wise. They have furnished him
with an automobile and for several
weeks he has been making from one
hundred and fifty to two hundred
miles a day ami delivering from
three to six speeches. Only once in
several weeks has he been at his
humble little home at DeFuniak
Springs, and that during a lull in
the fight with his opponent over
the recount of the ballots. Lven
then he was restless and remained
but a few hours, leaving his devoted
wife with thia remark: It is no
use for me to ait here and wait for
my opponent to take my certificate
away from me. I am gofng amotg
the people and tell tnem wnai is
being done, and I will go into the
November election aa the peoples
nominee even 11 tne court gives
Knott a certificate."
And he went among the people
and he is still going among them
and he is telling them what is being
done and they are thronging by
thousands to hear him and they
are listening and they are going
to vote for hjm in November and
they are going to elect him governor
of Florida AND THEY ARE
GOINO TO SEAT niM WIIEN
ELECTED!
The last information from Flor
ida is to the effect that Mr. Catts
is entitled to 69 votes in one,of the
counties which was not originally
counted, and that the court has or
dered these votes counted, which
will result in Mr. Catu bring again
declared the nominee. The time
for aettling the question of who gets
the nomination under the order of
the court will expire on Oct. 6th.
Note by Author
Ybe farts her itatr- ara eulUJ from
a tr.-bVt entitled, "Handbook of tha
(.'at (ml ip Aawx-iatioB," latuad In 1903.
After tho ftnu.hlet had been publirhad,
the prieMa realurd thej had mats a mia
taka In allowing tha pnblie t) know so
nwh about th proposed rathods of tha
Catholie Aaaociation, tbsy told thai
enant gtrla who wra omployad la Prot
tant families to " all tha eopias Us
aw in their eiptovrri' bouMholds. It
rery difficult now fer a Protaataat t
.t.thiD cop of this htluminatinf paapha
let.
The chief object of the Catholid
Association wss to replace Froteaa
tnnts in their civil positions in Ire
land with Itoman Catholics by pres
sure and intimid .tion if necessary.
Die promoters of the Catholic Ae
sociation justify their proposed or
ganization in the following words:
In truth, the need for a move
ment to advance the temporal inter
ttt of Catholics is too imperious to
bt ignored any longer, and the cer
tainty of what it could achieve is
too great to be denied, as there is
example at hand to prove. But
lately the trench free-thinker ana
publicist, Mr. Urbain Oohier, pro
fessed himself "alarmed" at the
power and progress of Catholicism
in America. Deyond a doubt the
American Catholic Federation,
though but a short time in existence
aa yet, has had something to do with
that progress, while the great work
of the Volrrrfin in unifying and
solidifying German Catholicism and
assisting ita social progress, has been
already adverted to."
Now, it seems that some lavmen
noticing that the principal officials
on the stalls of Irish Kail way Com
panies were rrotestanta, conceived
the idea of forming an association
tshich would agitate for a change in
the composition of theee staffs. Of
course, it was no concern of these
agitators that the best men had been
chosen to manage and work th
Railway henc the exclusion of
Roman Catholics.
Approved by the Bishop
This is what the pamphlet say
about the work of forming th aaaociation.
"A constitution was sketched out
and having been submitted to many
Catholic laymen and clergymen
(who showed an interest in th
movement) for their criticism, it
was definitely drafted and sub
mitted to their lordships, the arch
bishops and bishops of Ireland, who
at their meeting in Maynooth,
passed the following resolution on
October 7, 1902:
The bishops view with great sat
isfaction the proposed establishment
of a National I atholie Association
for the purpose first, of forwarding
the temporal interesU of Catholic
in Ireland, and secondly, for pro
moting the practical support cf th
Irish language, literature, art and
industries,'
Now it is safe to say that th
Protestant bishops of the Chnrch of
England and ot Ireland have never
been connected with an association
