The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME X.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1916
NUMBER 1
Vi
.
(1
I
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS THE
DR PARTY. SAYS HON. J. A. ED
their allies are doing? Have they con t Odell, fourteen, out at the Hall School,
chilled that, bv adoDtlng this different which they all attend, will be sent
policy, the cause of civilization will be
better forwarded, that the national
honor will bo made to shine with a
brighter lireter, and that the gentle
home to remain until he or she apolo
gizes. The name of the offender will
be given to the newspapers and made
public
"This was a conclusion arrived at to-
That is the Conclusion the Missouri Sen
ator Draws From the Speech of
Teddy Teethodore
.Declares That the Noisy One is in thej
Saddle and in Full Control of
Hughes and Company
'Christ, the Prince of Peace, who day ," a conference between Mrs.
Veached the gospel of the brothFr J CbarleSmart Mhe P-eneachr
hood of man, will look upon us with a'clpal of the schoo, SInce the county
; more approving eyo? , prosecutor's arrest, a week ago, the
i The fathers and mothers of Missouri j children have come home at night,
jhave spared a few hundreds of their Urom their classes, crying."
I sons to patrol the Mexican border that
j peace may be preserved.
Peeked at Hughes' Cards .
I Are they witling that this "Ignoble"
j policy shall be radically changed, and
that Instead of Missouri sparing hun
i dreds of its youth, for a few months,
in the cause of peace, it shall send
thousands of them with Colonel Roose-
A GREAT SUCCESS
The Savannah Democratic Meeting the
Greatest Held There '
Since 1896
' Senator James A. Reed will be with
the hosts of Democracy who will
gather at St. Joseph on Friday, Oct.
20, at which time those In attendance
at the big doings will be given such
a flow of oratory and reason as has
never as yet been vouchsafed them.
He will be with the Secretary Daniels
party,, as will be Senator Stone, Col.
Fred D. Gardner and other distin
guished Democrats.
Senator Reed has just dissected
Teddy's Battle Creek speech and
draws from it the conclusion that the
Republican party is becoming the war
supporting Hughes and assailing Wil
son because Wilson "sacrificed the na
tional honor because he feared to pay
the price for upholding it."
Every other jingo in America who
in the last two years has clamored for
war on this, that or the other pretext;
every corporation interest that expects
to profit from war; every big Mexican
investment and exploiting syndicate
that is scheming for military occupa
tion of Mexico, is doing today what
Roosevelt is doing working to defeat
Wilson and Install Hughes as his suc
cessor. Every saber-rattler who sneers
party of the country, and the further at "words" and rejects diplomacy as
evidence oi sname ana cowaruice ana
weakness; who believes, with the cabl-
conclusion that Teddy Is In the saddle
and In full charge. "Roosevelt Is In
supreme control of the Republican
party," says Senator Reed. "His
speech is a battle cry. It is a demand
for war against Germany which no
rational human being can mistake."
, Not an Overdrawn Statement
This is not overdrawn. For Colonel
Roosevelt, in his Michigan speech, as
sailing President Wilson with vitriolic
bitterness, referred to .him tneeringly
as a "man of woids" and to Mr.
Hughes as a "man of deeds." He
charged that the .president had "sacri
ficed the national honor because he
feared to pay the price for upholding
it." He said further:
The constantly repeated claims of
the Republicans that the great pros
perity of the present time under the
administration of President Wilson is
due to the European war has been
again flatly contradicted by the testi
mony secured by the New York World.
Six questions were asked by the
World of the largest employers of
labor in every section of the United
States.
Of fifteen firms, widely scattered In
various Darts of the country. reiire-
.Jm. ....... . . I - ...
me meeting at bavannan yester- gentlng every class of Industry, and
day was the greatest held bv our1 i,.i., mm- . ..... u..
veil to die (not he-but them) on tho pcople 6lnce 18g6 .. 8ald congressman! ,6 " ' TT
i , n . c i - i ,,.. IU-U'"B B""-- 10i,D' Balu congressman are jn no way concernea jn the war,
battlefields of .Handera .and thou- Booher, who was In the city yesterday . three are commerdally intere8ted ln
sands more w th some other captain ln speaklng of the Democratic tentthe war and two lnd,rectly lntere8ted.
to overrun and conquer Mexico? ("meeting held at Savannah on the day Nlnfi .. the indugtrIpfl ' spnted arp
Do they believe that to be devoted and night previous. ."Our people did dpnpndpnt on thp far, anH filv nrn
themsehes proud," he continued, "In
the way of entertaining the dis-j
tlngulshed speakers and the visitors'
(lint nnma f.nm nil .ina,A r9 ,tin Am...l
mab 1.0111U iiuiu till imita ui nit; luuu-i ... ... .
, crease in the number of employes dur-
Senator Stone spoke briefly in the 'u " - aonun,8lrallon ,s lnus
PROSPERITY NOT i
DUE TO WAK
The Republican Claim Is Flatly Con
tradicted by the Voice of the
Country
IE
T
SON
INDORSES
W
And Also the Members of the
Two Houses Who Stood
With Him
HEAD OF CONDUCTORS'
STRONG STAND
nets and monarchs of the nations now
at war, that the only way "national
honor" can be saved is by baptizing
it in the blood of the youth of the land
etach and all of these are lined up
with Roosevelt to repudiate Wilson
and his policies and turn to Hughes
and a "different policy."
And what is the different policy?
President Wilson indicated the cer
tain answer, when lie said, at Shadow
Lawn last Saturday:
"If they are going to change our
foreign policy in what direction
are they going to change it?
There Is only one choice as
j to the ways of peace, to the policies of
, peace, Is treasonable that the peace
lover of today Is "the spiritual heir of
the Tory of 1776 and the Copperhead
of 1864"?
If they have reached this conclusion
their recourse is plain. They have but
to follow where Roosevelt leads, and
vote as Roosevelt votes.
The Roosevelt candidate, it is true,
is not speaking in such clarion tones
on this tremendous Issue as Is the
colonel himself. Mr. Hughes la work
ing the other side of the street where
he hopes, by speaking softly and hid
ing his big stick, to gather In a multi
tude of votes that the colonel might
otherwise drive away from him. Dut,
as Senator Reed has remarked ln cam
paigning In Missouri, Roosevelt has
had a peek at Hughes' cards. The
rest of us have not been permitted to
, dependent on the tariff and six are
not.
Four years ago these fifteen con'
cerns employed 60,427 men. The ln
23,200. or 38.5 per cent. The total
wages of the men employed by these
He Sayt that the Eight-Hour Law
Means Much More than the Written
Lines, and In Telling What it Means
He Sayt that Candidate Hughes Not
Only Would Have Opposed it, But
Would Have Fought it With all of
His Strength.
afternoon, after he had been intro
duced In a hanDV manner bv .Tmlep W.
v Tm. ,..i, . ti - . 'firms in the month of July four years
meeting. The senator made his points S was $3,494,963. The payroll for
count as he always does. "" 1Blb was &.5-8,88Z, an increase
"Col. Gardner was the principal tof $2,033,963, or 58.7 per cent. In
speaker of the afternoon and he made other words, the wages paid during
a most favorable Impression and tbe four years of the Wilson admlnis-
votes for himself and all of the ticket, tratlon have Increased at a rate nearly
Hon. Charles H. Drough of Arkan- double that of tho Increase In the
sas was also an afternoon speaker and number of employes.
made a most telling address. His The Willys-Overland Co. of Toledo,
points brought forth round after round Ohio, the president of which, John N.
of applause. (Willys, is collecting contributions for
At night Judge W. K. James made the Republican campaign fund, re-
a telling address and disclosed to his ported an Increase in the four years
audience that he was fully conversant from 5.000 to 17.000 men and frnm !
... . . . . --.,
seo tnem plainly, uui itooseveu nas with the affairs and the needs of the $375,000 to $1,275,000 ln wages paid.
seen tnem-ana uooseveit is sausiiea. , country. The other firms included are located 6" .. '," Wi3""0.. lo "ma
ti .,. fti .i t... xt t, t, . ... . . . .... ocjvjte umpiujes, oy me nauonai con-
I nrz n i7 itiiiunrii lit iiiiii. .1111111 . in inii(nnin (iaIa.4a .. 1 1 T x ... - .. - . .
: " " . , " '" """""'"i -uiuiauu, iua, tviBvuu- gress on the recommendation of the
Gordon, who told his hearers more sin, Tennessee, New Jersey, Washing-1 president of the United States, means
about state affairs than they had ever ton south Carolina, Ohio, New York, i far more t0 men who labor than ap
before known-and they were all niinols. Minnesota and Massachusetts. pears wlthln lhe written lines thereof.'
fact3, - "it me,ans the embodiment in statu-
Congressman Booher closed the EASTON TONIGHT tor? law f,rst' ot tne declaration made
meeting with a telling address de- i. , by President Wilson to the ropresenta-
The railroad men and all other rail
road operatives in St. Joseph have
just received a copy of an article
written by A. B. Garrettson, president
of the Order of Railway Conductors,
in which the head of the conductors'
brotherhood gives his conclusions rela
tive to the action of President Wilson
and the Democratic congress ln avert
ing the great railroad strike scheduled
for last month. Conductor Garrettson
was one of the leaders ln. conducting
the great negotiations at Washington
and he cannot speak too highly of the
recognition shown the railroad men.
In the article President Garrettson
says:
Means Much to Labor
t me enactment ot a nation-wiae
I eight-hour law, applicable to train
HE'S FAT PICKIN'
.
Dr. Jake Geiger Is Disposing of
Some of the Appendicitis
Fees He Picked Up
I
Dr. Jake Geiger, who at Ama-
zonia announced that he did not
care to go to congress "for the
money that there Is in it," as he
"had money enough," seems to
be destined to feel the effects of
his words, for It is already openly
talked that he has opened his
voted entirely to national Issues. It The Democratic Ca.wialgn Meeting1 HVes ?.r lne Itmr Drot?S. .SS "S?w ,
T-iik OT. .,,,oif.., ...... -'... .. -. Mlis rallwry tr.xagit that i'lbyQnatel
was',r'eceivedwitb great appreciation
and but further shows the apprecia
tion which the people of Andrew feel
for 'their congressman.
With Great Success in the Meet-
ings So Far Held
sense had declared in favor of an
eight-hour law and that it was not
legitimately a, proposition for arbitra-
The Democratic county campaign , " "Trf' ? n " Z" ' 3
It is estimated by good judges that 0Penei at that stronghold of Democ-linK lnt0 the baianCe In favor of the
racy, uusnviue, last baturuay nignt establishment of a universal eight
and It was in common parlance a hum-J hour' day the weight of the Influence
mer. There were more enthusiastic of this government, both executive and
-. .1... t. i. - . ..... lpfflnlnt lvp fim! pivpa to thn fnalatnnt
tr i.w ,, , i:ir"li
ua; email u? iumieu iu ci&iii uuurs aa
there were 3,500 people at the after
noon meeting and 2,500 at night.
Doth the Savannah and the Rosen-
good among the faithful. At any
rate, there is more money In cir-
culatlon among the rounders'than
there was a month ago. It ,1s
understood that so far Dr. Jake
has responded to the toucher
with due decorum and a respect
for the proprieties,
Ofie ot the striking effects of
the bleed is shown by the Repub-
lican newspapers, who are now
printing among their paid adver-
tisements such as the following:
"It Is conceded iy both Demo-
crats and Republicans that he is 4
4 the logical candidate of the peo-
pie of the Fourth Congressional 4
District."
' This is printed in regular paid
' for display advertising, and Is
paid for out of Dr. Jake's cam-
parade In the afternoon was a feature.
GRAND JURY SECRECY
palgn fund. If the boys hurry
. they may make quite a stake ex-
plotting such an absurdity as the 4
w aDOve meniionea auveruseiHeui.
If they do not hurry they may
lose, as Dr. Jake with his well
known perspicuity will tumble to
the bleed and the money giving
will be over.
SENATOR JAMES A. REED
"The men who now, with timid
hearts and quavering voice praise
Mr. Wilson for having kept ua out
of war are the spiritual heirs of
the Tories of 1776 and the, tapper,
heads of 1K4," ,
Referring to the president and con
gress Colonel Roosevelt Bald:
"These false servants of tho
people have taught us to enjoy
soft ease and swollen wealth In
the present without taking one ef.
fectlve step to ward off ruinous
disaster In the future. These false
vivant of the people have be-
,gr trayed the soul of the nation."
Yet the "false, servants" appropri
ated $655,000,000 for the national de
fense! If this represents not even
"one effective step" toward safety,
how much "soft case and swollen
wealth" would he people be enjoying
after an administration dominated by
Colonel Roosevelt had taken the nu
merous "effective steps" that bo de
mands and that he la making this cam
paign to secure!
Every War Jingo for Hughes
It Is not Roosevelt alone who Is
against peace, and that Is war.
The certain prospect of the suc
cess of the Republican party Is
that we shall be drawn, In one
form or another, Into the embroil,
ments of the European war, and
that to the south of us the force of
the United States will be used to
produce in Mexico the kind of law
and order which some American
Investors In Mexico consider most
to their disadvantage."
Are the People Weary of Peace?
This is one momentous question
that the voters will decide, for weal
or woe, at the ballot box next month.
Have the people of the United States
(rown aweary of peace? Have they
become ashamed of peace? Do they
believe, with Roosevelt, that peace
J md dishonor go hand In hand; that
he voice and spirit of national honor
ipeak oDjy out of the cannon's mouth?
re they ready to repudiate the fruits
of peace, which Roosevelt refers to
sneerlngly as "soft case and swollen
wealth," and abandon their ease and
dissipate their wealth as Britain and
Germany and Russia and France and
AT HOME AND ABROAD
The Way "News" Appears Here and
at Kansas City ,
-in Rushville that night than there tapetus that couId have been g,ven
has been for many an evening and by no other existent agency; and it
'they all went home satisfied that they means the recognition of, and the add
had attended a meeting that had Ing of strength to, the conclusion
strengthened the strength of the I reached by every authoritative tribun
faithful and that had added new f' ' social or hygienic character that
-.i. . .i. . i i u. i, the best industrial results can be at-
strength to the beginner in his walk talned where work Jg conducted for
along Democracy's pathway. periods that preclude that form of ex-
Hon. Ben F. Stuart presided in a I haustion which makes efficiency a 'by-
happy way over the big meeting. All word and 'safety first' a meaningless
Frequent reference has been made
In this paper to the way in which
"news" appears ln the St Joseph
papers and tho way It Is "played up"
by the outside papers. The remark
frequently heard that you "must go
away from home to read the news,"
holds good, for Irresponsible penny-a-liner
correspondents ln St. Joseph
will color a dispatch' any old way in
crder that the papers that they send
it to will take and. pay for it- The
most trivial happening which is dis
missed with a Hue or two here, when
played up by an artistic penny-a-llner
so that the foreign papers will take It
and pay him for It, becomes a real
Jules Verne story. Take this speci
men which appeared. In tho Kansas
City and St. Louis papers Tuesday.
'See how It sounds now and It brought
the correspondent probably 50 cents:
"St. Joseph Mo Oct 2. Tho first
child that snubs little Helen McDanlel,
eight years old, or Marlon, six, or
GRAND JURY SECRECY
v
Does It Leak, or do the Reporters
Fake the Stories That the
Public Read?
'
In every issue of the afternoon
paper and ln the morning paper of the county candidates were nresent . term.
as well, appear what purports to and all made brief addresses which! Wilson and Congress Indorsed
be authentic (that is the news- were well received, and all made new .... . , . ,
papers print them as such) re- Wends. " LI., ' u,?'" ," t"" Z"?Z
ports of the testimony of the Congressman Charles F. Booher was i candidate for president on the ReDub-
various witnesses who are before the principal speaker and he told of lican platform, all that Is needed to
the special grand Jury investl- the Wilson achievements and of the furnish the information are the dec-
gating the McDanlel murder case. Vnod leclslation that thP nartv had ' Orations made by that candidate on
. . . --.---. Ine puDnc rostrum, tnoso utterances
given the people. , maiting it perfectly apparent that had
He was followed by Judge A. B. , he been at the time administering the
Duncan and L. C. Gabbert, both of affairs of the commonwealth, no
whom made telling addresses. The , asency of the government would have
meeting was most enthusiastic. ZeTofVot EST S&JS
At San Antonio on Monday night, or t0 forward the realization thereof,
another big meeting was held at but that in his devotion to the mainte
whlch Horace Merrltt was the prin-' nance of the present order, every in
clpal speaker. All of the candidates fluence of.hl? hiBj ofnS? would haye
ors are also when sworn by the made addresses. I Dee5' Passlvel -7 lea' " nl actively.
X ...t. - .i i uii...j . ""Ui"f"' used to favor the Interests of those
tiCl ui luc tUm i uuusaicu uui , mesuay nignt j. it. uiay ana an onwno refused to recognize the hand-
io uivuige wuai transpires ue- me canaioates held a good meeting ati writing on the wall and to maintain
fore them. Why is It then that Sherwood school bouse.
every afternoon and every morn- Hon. A. B. Duncan was the orator
lng tho people may read of the of the occasion at a largely attended
exact testimony given? Do the meeting at Fraier Wednesday night.
members of the .grand jury Thursday night Judge Charles W.
"leak," or do the witnesses who Mayer was the leading speaker at a
have sworn not to divulge their rousing rally at Halls.
testimony forget their oath and La8t night Judge R. E. Culver and
tell? all of the candidates addressed a large
Or (and far more reasonable to and enthusiastic audience at Burnett
believe) do the newspapers 'school house.
"fake" their "stories"? !' Tonight Easton is the Mecca. The
gating
In some Instances the testimony
as given In the newspaper ac-
counts is given verbatim.
When a witness goes before
the grand Jury he or she is
obliged to subscribe to an oath in
which it is obligatory to preserve
silence as to what the testimony
the party gives. The grand Jur-
REPORTED WITNESSES ARE
INTIMIDATED
A report was current at the court
bouse yesterday to the effect that
some of the witnesses, notably tele
phone girls, bad been Intimidated
and were afraid to testify in the Mc
Daniels murder mystery. The report
could not be traced to any definite
source, and Is probably but another
of the prevailing "campaign stories."
Hard to Please All of Them
Here Is a new argument in favor
ot Hughes: "The Democrats havo
made money so plentiful and cheap
that it takes too much ot It to buy
anything. It's awfully hard to suit
everybody, Albany Ledger.
schedule for next week is as follows:
Easton Tonight, J. G. Parkinson,
.speaker.
Saxton, Oct. 9, E. M. Swartz.
Faucett, Oct. 10. S. K. Owen.
Woodbine, OcL 11, James W. Myt-ton.
Connett schoolhouse, Oct. 12, John
Connett
Garretsburg, Oct. 13, Charles H.
Mayer.
Agency, Oct. 14, A. B. Duncan.
Spring Garden, Oct. 16, Horace Mer
rltt. French Bottoms, Oct. 17, John W.
Muir.
Wallace, Oct. 18, L. C. Gabbert.
Maxwell schoolhouse, Oct. 19, C. A.
Porter.
Hurllngen, Oct. 20, Barney Rellly.
DeKalb, Oct. 21, Louis V. Stigall.
those conditions of railway service
which were almost unbearable In
ihelr character.
Doesn't the self-Interest ot every man
who labors call aloud to him to cast
bis vote to continue in office the presi
dent who has demonstrated not only
his sympathy with the legitimate
aspirants of men who toil, but that he
possessed the courage to coin his be
lief Into action, and also those mem
bers of the two houses of congress,
regardless of their party affiliations,
who, acting in sympathy with the rec
ommendation of the president and
with an Intelligent concept of what
their action would mean, gave their
vote ln favor of enacting into law the
statute as It now exists?
"A. B. Garretson, PresldenL"
SMITH ARRESTED FOR AUTO
SPEEDING
L. V, Smith, whose home is at the
Benton club, was arrested Thursday
night for putting bis car through its
paces on Frederick avenue. Before
Judge Allee officers testified that
Smith exceeded thirty-five miles an
hour and Judge Allee decided that
such bursts of speed were worth a $25
fine.
Pierce Eads, a chauffeur, was also
arrested tho same night on a like
charge. He will be tried OcL 17.
i
t
--.
y
..
v
