The Sun Goes to 36 States
and Canada. Arc
Your Relatives and
Friends Getting It?
Do You Know That Ad
vertising is the Life of
Trade and the Only
Real Business Getter
VOLUME IX. NUMBEll 0.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1910
PRICE, 5c.
Lula Mai B
Allen Chapel
All Day
mm
mutt
utler
Sunday
in
The Republican Campaign
Making Wonderful
Progress in Missouri
Everything Indicates a Sweeping Victory
Neg:
roes all over the State Working for
Success
Party
The Republican campaign In Mis
souri which has been begun under
such splendid auspices by Judge
Lamm, our nominee for governor and
"Walter S. Dickey, nominee for the
"United States senate, to swing the
state back into the Republican column,
-was . given a . new and powerful im
petus during the past week, by the
effective work of the Auxiliary State
committee, which is composed of
prominent Negro Republican leaders
irom all parts of Missouri, under the
leadership of Prof. Chas. G. Williams?)
of Boonville,
ing assigned almost dally, and reports
from county chairman tell of the effec
tive work that is being done for the
cause of Republicanism by awaken
ing enthusiasm and solidifying the
party ranks for a landslide for the
Republican nominees in November.
The present campaign furnishes the
first opportunity the, Negroes havo
had to voice their public disapproval
and condemnation of President Wil
son's policy of segregation and elim
ination of the members of their race
in the government departments at
Washington, and the Negro orators
Tho Auxiliary committee, which is who are campaigning in Missouri are
composed of Dr. O. C. Queen, of Han-1 not neglecting the opportunity to ex
nibal; P. W. Dabney, Kansas City; i pose the duplicity of the president,
Burney Clark, Springfield; William
Johnson and Spotwood Rice, A. D.
Flemming and A. W. Lloyd, of St.
Louis; Charles Baker, Farmington;
Dr. J. P. Williams, Joplln; W. N.
Rowland, Chillicothe; M. O. Ricketts,
St. Joseph; Chas. P. Covington, Louis
iana and Dr. W. H. Laurie, of Cape
Girardeau and Williams, chairman, af-
who despite his public promises prior
to his election four years ago to give
the Negro fair play has disregarded
every rulo of fairness toward the face
by removing from positions of honor
and trust, Negroes who' havo served
the government with efficiency
through several administrations, in
eluding both terms of President Clcve
ter a conference at which the political 1 land's terms of office, and appointing
situation in the state was thoroughly white men to fill their places,
canvassed, organized a plan of cam- It is being shown that the president,
paign which provides for a series of i not satisfied with introducing his ob
Mass meetings to be held In every I noxious segregation practices in the
county and city of the state where various government departments at
Negroes reside in considerable num-
A DELIGHTFUL STAG.
A most enjoyable affair was the
stag reception in honor of Mr. Charles
D. Frazler of Grand Canyon, Ariz., at .
tho residence of Mr. and Mrs. N. C.
Crews, 2624 Highland avenue, last
Tuesday evening from 9:00 to 12:00.
The house was beautifully decorated
for the occasion and whist was in
dulged in by tho guests throughout
tho evening. Delightful music was
furnished for the occasion by the .fa
mous Imperial Trio, composed of San
dy Miller, Walter French and Arthur
Williams, who elicited many encores
by their magnificent singing and play
ing. At 11:00 o'clock the guests were
served to a most delicious menu, af
ter which brief addresses were deliv
ered by Rev. Dr. William II. Thomas,
Principal J. R. E. Lee and Secretary
Robt. 13. DeFrantz of the Y. M. C. A.
with a very happy heartfelt response
from the guest of honor. Prof. Robt.
G. Jackson, the race's premier musi
cian, played several highly enjoyable
selections on the piano and all joined
in singing "America" and "Auld Lang
Syne," after which they departed for
their several homes.
Mrs. Crews was ably assisted in
serving by the following prominent
ladles: Mrs. G. W. Brown, Mrs.
Emma Collins Payne, Mrs. G. A. Page,
Mrs. D. A. Willis, Mrs. Cora Wells,
Mrs. John Green, Mrs. D. C. Houston
and Mrs. Lewis Collins.
Guests Present.
Dr. G. W. Drown Dr. .1. Kiln. Perry
1'rof. J. E. Ilerrlford Prof. J. It. K. Leo
Prof. "Vm. H. Dawle Rev. Wm. II.
Henry Campion
J. A. Johnson
J'roff. a. A. Paso
T. U. Watklns
D. A. Willis
Wm. H. Hubbell
John ureen
Thomas
H. 11. DeFrantz
Geo. W. K. Love
W. Frederick
Fairfax
Hon. C. It. Calloway
I), t. Houston
Chester A. Franklin Hon. W. C. Ilucston
REV, J. R. RANSOM, D. D.,
the stalwart leader of his people and
popular pastor of the First A. M. E.
Church, Kansas City, Kansas, who has
been returned to his charge for an
other year to the deligh of the mul
titude of his friends and followers.
Tiers and arranged for Ihese meetings
to be addressed by Negro Republican
orators, who are being assigned and
sent out by the speakers' bureau, from
tho headquarters of tho. Auxiliary
committee, which is located in the
International Life Building, at Eighth
and Chestnut streets, in St. Louis
The campaign work among tho
"Negro voters of the state is already
in full swing in many sections of the
state and additional speakers are be
Washington and replacing nearly
every prominent Negro holding a posi
tion of trust, under the government by
a white man, hns carried his southern
prejudices to the extreme limit of ap
pointing a white man to represent tho
nation - in the Negro Republic of
Haytl and appointed white post
masters in the exclusive Negro com
munities of Mound Bayou, Miss., and
Boley, Okla.
On purely state issues Judge Henrv
Lamm making it very hard sledding
for Col: Frederick D. Gardner, the
Democratic candidate for governor.
who finds it extremely embarrassing
to extol Democratic rule in Missouri
with the record of the present Demo
cratic administration with all of its
scandals and evidences of misrule
like Banquo's ghost, refusing to
'down."
Walter S. Dickey, the Republican
candidate for United States Senator
is making a winning campaign against
Senator Jim Reed, for whom he is
making things uncomfortable by ex
posing his record in congress, where
he posed as the enemy of the Negro
in his advocacy of the amendment to
the Immigration bill, in which he pro
posed to exclude immigrants from
Africa from admission to the United
States.
Republican workers throughout the
Btate are greatly encouraged by the
enthusiasm and harmony that has
characterized the campaign thus far
among Republicans and expect an un
broken front in the party ranks
when election day dawns, which will
mean success at the polls for the Tie-
publican candidates and the redemp'
tion of Missouri from Democratic mis'
rule by putting her permanently in
tho Republican column of states of the
Union.
11. IS. Francis
Jas. H. Crews
Ur. E. C. Hunch
K. J. Weaver
.r. A. Leo
Martin Younff
Major X. Claik
Smith
Felix IT. rayno
1'. W. Whltworth
A. Plummer
Dr. Howard M.
Smith
C. F. Wilson
Hon. I.. A. Knox
Vrof. J. Silas Harris
Dr. McQueen Carrion
Dr. T. C. L'ntliank
Dr. M. H. Lambrlglit
Dr. Earnest J.
McCampbplI
Dr. T. C. Chapman
Dr. Jas. F. Shannon
Dr. E. n. Ramsey
A. T. Mooro
J. 'Wood'
Dr. W. II. Hrucc
l'ror. It. J. JncKson
Col. Robt. Simpson .'. C. Crews
"The Republican party is the ship,
all else is the sea." These words, ut
tered moro lhaB a" generation ago, by
Frederick Douglass, in his great key
note Bpcech in the campaign of 1888,
are invested with a deeper signifi
cance today than when they were
first uttered.
in the light of recent political
events, tho words of, tho "sage of
Montecello" seem proptietic. Four
yearB, ago, for the thin time, tho coun
try wis seduced Into confiding the
government to tho care of tho Demo
cratic party,, with the inevitable re
sult that tho wheels of progress have
been stopped and failure and humil
iation havo followed. ,
Wilson has twice precipitated war
with Mexico, sacrificing many Amor
lean lives, and then in a most coward'
ly manner withdrawing our troops
without even demanding satisfaction.
The American flag has been trailed
in the dust and by reason of Mr. Wil
son's cowardly and insincere foreign
policies the nation has been humiliat
ed and mado the laughing stock of the
diplomats of tho civilized world.
During tho Cleveland administra
tion, the efforts of tho Democrats to
put into effect1 their fallaceous notions
of tariff reform brought on an indus
trial revolution that was followed by
a financial panic, that clearly demon
strated tho false theory of the tariff
for revenue only to be Inadequate to
meet tho demands and needs of this
country.
President Wilson, who slipped into
the presidency four years ago, by a
minority rote, whllo tho Republicans
were quarreling with each other, has
proved the greatest failure of all, by
his Insincere pretentions and vacillat
ing methods both as home and abroad.
Not only has the Democratic tariff
reform measure failed to reduce the
cost of living, on tho contrary It has
had tho opposite effect While pre
Wading1 to advocate peace, President
If you judged by tho ginger Judge
Lamm in putting into this campaign,
you would guess that he was a young
man. And ho is in spirit.
The trouble with the state govern'
ment at Jefferson City is so wide
spread and deep-seated that It can on
ly bo remedied by a completo clean
up. This1 must come In the form of
the election of the entire Republican
ticket headed by Judgo Henry Lamm
An application of remedial doses in
spots won't help. A full change, with
an, opening of all tho books, is tho
imperative remedy.
His treatment of the Negroes
showbd that he bad taken into the
White House all of tho traditions and
ideal of tho "Southern slave holder.
In tho orgrjilzatlon of his cabinet he
surrounded himself with advisers
picked from that class of Democrats
who have been life-long enemies of
tho principles and practices that have
mado tho United States the greatest
and wealthiest nation on earth, and
oraco Uishop
r?N
AL RALLY
SECOND BAPTIST CHOIR
QUETS.
REV. WILLIAM H. THOMAS, D. D,
Will Havo His Last Service Before Leaving for Conference
October 8th, at Allen Chapel, All Day.
At 11 o'clock he will preach. Dr. W. S. Scarborough,
president of Wilberforcc University, will also be present, and
will moke a few remarks and
LULA MAI BUTLER
The sweetest singer of the race, and one who can move any
audience to the fflps wonderful manifestations will sing several
of her most beautiful and heart-reaching selection's
At 3 o'ciocfc He v. J. W. Ilurse, D. D., assisted by the fam
ous St. tSephen's Baptist Church Choir and backed up by his
great congregation, will preach the final sermon in honor of the
minister, and Miss Butler will also sing again.
DON'T MISS THIS! k AT NIGHT, 8 P. M.
The minister will preach and Professor Jackson and Allen's
premier choir, assisted by other high class talent, will furnish
tho music.
Spend thetlay at Allen and help make the Minister's heart
glad by sending1 him to Conference with all his claims fully
paid.
Compliments of the Sun.
' SOMETHING DIFFERENT !
JAS. R. CHASE wishes to announce the opening of
his Model Cafe on Mondey Evening, Oct. 9th, at 6:30
P. M. Located at 1611 East 18th Street
We shall endeavor to please with entertainment for
this evening.
For many years Negroes had
worked in friendship and with effi
clency along sjde their white fellow
employes in the various government
departments, and no political party
prior to the advent of President Wil
son has ever attempted to segregate
the negro in departmental service.
Even under Grover Cleveland, the
Negro was considered part of official
Washington, and proved himself to be
competent and dependable Amerl
can. But when woourow wiison en
tered tho Whlto House a well organ
Ized effort was immediately begun to
harrass, humiliate and embarras every
Negro in the employ of the govern
ment, with a viewvof driving them out
of their positions to make rom for
white men and women. The next
steps followed in natural sequence
New rules were adopted by tho heads
of departments segregating the Negro
employes. Then rouoweu me uireci
action of the president, in which he
removed nearly every Negro from the
employ of the government who held
a position of any prominence or im
portance, throughout the country and
In the foreign diplomatic service, and
in every case appointing white men
to fill their places, although there
were many men among the Negroes
who voted for him.
President Wilson's administration
has been characterized throughout by
a sameless surrender to race preju
dice that has not only forced him to
eliminate tho Negro from tho politi
cal places of prominence to which
they had won their way on their
merits, butt has caused him to com
mit himself to the policy of complete
ly eliminating the Negro from the
government service, which ho will
carry out if he Is returned to power
at the coming election.
With such a prospect in view, I do
not think it possiblo that a single
Negro voter can be found who will be
foolish enough to cast a ballot for Mr.
Wilson or any other Democratic can
didate. If the Negroes who were de
ceived four years ago, by Bishop
Walters and Monroo Trotter into vot
ing for Woodrow Wilson for president
have had their eyes opened by the
pontemptuou3 treatment they have re
ceived at the hands of the president,
they will not fall to align themselves
solidly in the Republican ranks and
cast their votes for cnaries ii.
Hughes and the entire Republican
ticket and aid in returning to power
the grand old Republican party, to
which we owe every vested right we
havo ever enjoyed under the govern'
mnt as citizens of the United States.
There never has been an election at
which the Negro had more at stake
than the election of 191C. The elec
tion of Hughes and Fairbanks to the
presidency and vice-presidency and
the election of Walter S. Dickey as
United States Senator from Missouri
and tho Republican candidates for
congress, and also tho election of that
able and impartial jurist. Judge Henry
Lamm, as governor of Missouri,
means a happy return to peace, oppor
tunity and prosperity to tho Negro as
well aa to all other citizens of our
common country.
A victory at tho polls for Democracy
means humiliation, elimination and
oppression for the Negro and Indus
In Honor of Organist and Husband,
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Wright.
The banquet took place at the resi
dence of Mr. and Mrs. Oavid Allen,
! 2313 Highland avenue, on Friday even-
1 iniT. Knntpmhpr 2H. Tlin rrupctta neanm.
bled at the home of Miss Lessie King,
2303 Highland avenue, as the commit
tee had decided not one should know
or see, but all should be allowed to
gaze with wonder on the most exten
sive and superb decorations. At 9
o'clock they were called by phone to
come at once to the banquet hall.
Miss-Willene Webb played the Blue
Danube waltz as they entered the
house and presided at the piano,
throughout the evening.
This greeted their wandering view,
the parlor and dining rooms were pro
fusely decorated with carnations,
roses, evergreens and asters. In the
banquet hall a string of electric lights
with miniature Japanese lanterns
thereon reaching from one end of the
room to the other. The. table down
the center of which was a garden of
flowers with a good fairy statue at
each end, a dozen lighted candles
made a most exquisite sight. Each
took their places as their names were
called and twenty-seven were seated
bforo their place cards. All were
( dressed in evening costumes, also the
three waitresses wore white uniforms
' and dainty caps which were appropri
ate for tho occasion. Toastmlstress
j Mrs. Julia Morrison who in her usual '
j eloquent and dramatic way delivered
tho speech of the evening. Solo "A
' Birthday" by Miss King, which thrill
! ed tho entire personnel and at the
t end she was given an enthusiastic ap
, plauso to which she responded by
' singing a song dedicated to their de
parture. We regret the loss of our
! organist, Mrs. Lula Knox Wright, who
! has served for four years and who
I won tho sincere affections of her dl
i rectress and each and every member. '
j MENU.
Fruit cocktail, fried chicken and
brown gravy, mashed potatoes, can
dled sweet potatoes, pink tea, pota
toes, split biscuit, fruit salad, roll ice
cream with strawberry heart, individ
ual cakes.
JTho evening was spent delightfully
and each member departed to their
various homes, stating that words
were Inadequate to express their feel
ings. Fred F. Fitchue was the decorator.
Committee: Katie Price, Cora D.
Williams, Leila M. Allen, Chairman,
assisted by Mrs. C. H. Smith. i
BAN- WASHINGTON AND LINCOLN PUT
RIGHTEOUSNESS BEFORE
PEACE.
The supporters of Mr. Wilson say
that the American people should vote
for him because he has kept us out of
war. It is worth while to remember
that this is a claim that cannot be
advanced either on behalf of Wash
ington or of Lincoln. Neither Wash'
ington nor Lincoln kept us out of war.
Americans, and the people of tho
world at large, now reverenco tho
memories of these two men, because,
and only because, they put righteous
ness before peace. They abhorred
war. They shunned unjust or wanton
or reckless war. But they possessed
that stem valor of patriotism which
bade them nut duty first; not safety
first; which bade them accept war
rather than an unrighteous and disas
trous peace. There were peace-at-any-price
men in the days of Washington.
They were the Tories. Theco were
peace-at-any-price men in the days of
Lincoln. They were the Copperheads.
The men who now. with timid hearts
and quavering voices praise Mrr Wil
son for having kept us out of war,
are the spiritual heirs of the Tories
of 1776, and the Copperheads of 1864.
The men who followed Washington at
Trenton and Yorktown, and who suf
fered with him through the winter at
Valley Forge; and the men who wore
the Blue under Grant, and the Gray
under Lee; were men of valor, who
sacrificed everything to serve the
right as it was given them to see the
right. They spurned with contempt
uous indignation the "counsels of tho
feeble and cowardly folk who in their
day spoke for peace-at-any-price.
From the speech of Colonel Roosevelt
at Battle Creek, Michigan, in behalf
of Mr. Hughes.
SENATOR WILLIAM WARNER,
Soldier, Statesman and friend to all humanity, who passed away after a
long illness Wednesday, October 4. Every Negro in America loved the
name of William Warner. Peace to his ashes, rest to his soul.
began to undo tho great work of a
generation of capablo government by trial, financial and commercial dlsas-
tbo Republican party. ter for tno wnoio country,
OUR BOYS OUR GIRLS.
Judge Porterfield in his address at
Lincoln High school on Snnday after
noon, September 17th, acquainted us
with the damnable facts that confront
our boys and girls, and moro especial
ly those of cur boys who err in their
early childhood. While their way
wardness is very often due to their
misfortune in being born of irrespon
sible parents, and not being properly
reared, the fact remains that through
no very real fault of their own these
conditions force them into becoming
charges of the State Reformatory, and
deprive them at a dependable age, and
for all time of a clear record of good
citizenship.
I cannot but believe that those citi
zens of Kansas City who listened to
the story of what becomes of our
boys whp are adjudged incorrigible, or
who have, the misfortune, in some
moment of mischevious Impulse, to
overstep tho bounds of the law, will
consider the question of righting this
monstrous wrong being suffered by
our rising generation with minds open
to the gravity of the situation. These
children havo not been dealt with just
ly; they are often at a disadvantage
from the moment they first begin tho
strugglo of life, many of them, and
even then, some children will not
succomb to the same conditions any
,moro than wo would expect all
climates to be good for the same di
seases.
Is it possible that tho Negroes of
Kansas City feel no responsibility for
the present conditions at the Reform
school? Tho present ratio is of two
colored boys to one white, when, ap
cording to actual statistics there
should be four white to one colored
offender. Tho McCune farm acts as
Intermediary for the former class
howover, and 13 a wise alternative
that should by rights be extended to
the Negro boys, particularly thoso of
tender years.
Is it not an awful thought that our
boys at the ago of eight years must
perforce bo Bent to the Reform school
to associate wit bmore hardened crlm
tnals who aro steeped and dyed in
JOHN MITCHELL LECTURES.
The lecture Tuesday evening, Sep- REV. WM. ALFORD,
SMthe pastor of the Second Baptist
mond, Va., editor of the Richmond
wrong living, and who emerge with
no hopo of redemption this side of the
grave? We are literally urging them
on, instead of investigating their con
dition and making some concerted ef
fort to better tho existing circum
stances. We cannot hope for the white men
to do for us what we should do for
ourselves; wo must not expect them
to feel tho same vital interest in the
welfare and future of our boys and
girls that wo do ourselves. These
conditions are our own; this para
mount problem is our own, to be
solved by our own efforts. j
It can be started by private means, I
or by a movement all along the line.
Let the high people get behind it
and make it move! Let us do some
thing to correct the lives and miti
gate the face of theso dependable
street urchins, and do it now! I can
think of nothing moro deplorable than
the spectacle of these deer little souls
doomed to such a life, and so unjustly.
Cannot something be done? Won't
somebody try? Oh! let us have clean
hands and hearts in making tho ef
fort for a new and better order of
things.
Oh, for somebody who is unafraid,
who is not looking for commercialism,
of which there is already too much
in public undertakings! Abovo all,
do not let it become a political pull,
but rather an altogether pull, for the
iiegroes, by the Negroes, and for the
good of tho community.
EMMA L. GREENE.
Planet and President of the Mechan
ics' Bank, was largely attended and
was very interesting. He urged the
Negroes of this city to open a bank
assuring them that there was not only
a sufficient number but that they had
among them sufficient intellect to
conduct the same. A number of prom
inent men were in the receiving line.
Light refreshments were served and
the affair was a highly enjoyable one.
Much credit is due Dr. Bacote for giv
ing the people of Kansas City an op
portunity to hear this distinguished
gentleman who is the only Negro
member of the American Bankers' Association.
President Wilson's domestic policies
have proven even more odious than
his foreign policies. Speaking of him
self, shortly after his election, Mr.
Wilson said he had a one-track mind,
and he has proved it. He has shown
himself unequal to the task of solving
tho complex questions and issues that
are continually arising for solution in
a great government such as ours, and
has stirred the country with factional
strife by his inability to take an im
partial view of matters or to set
aside his own personal prejudices.
Church of Piattsburg, Mo., a native
of Kentucky, was born near the close
of the war in Mason county, Ken
tucky, moving with his parents to Del
aware, Ohio, when very young, where
he attended the public schools. At
an early age he was converted to
Christ, ordained as a Missionary Bap
tist at Richwood, Ohio, and licensed
to preach March, 1881. In 1882, he
entered the Wesleyn University and
spent two years there. In 1885 he was
called to tho pastorate of the First
Baptist Church in London, Ohio; in
1887 ordained as an elder of the Mis
sionary Baptist Church and in 1894
was called to take charge of the Beth
el Baptist Church, Maysville, Ky and
in the three years of his pastorate
there three hundred souls were added
to the Church. Since coming West
in 1897 Rev. Alford has pastored some
of the leading Baptist Churches. In
1912 the degree Doctor of Divinity was
conferred upon him by Princeton
University, Princeton, Ind.
At present Dr. Alford, as pastor of
the Second Baptist Church, is doing
a great work at Piattsburg, Mo., and
the spiritual and social conditions
there are greatly Improved. During
the past year the Church under his
wise and aggressive leadership raised
1,356 dollars.
PLAN A VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Plans for a vocational school near
Independence for young negroes soon
will bo drawn up. Back of tho en
terprise is Julius Rosenwald, former
ly with Sears, Roebuck & Company of
Chicago. Francis E. Parker, 604 Kem
per building, is to bo the architect and
Bishop Cblvers of Mount Vernon, 111.,
Is to represent tho philanthropist
Tho exact location of the school has
not been decided upon. It will com
prise about sixteen acres and suitable
buildings will be erected thereon,
LINCOLN, NEBRASKA.
By W. W. Mosely.
Mr. Wm. Morris, of St. Joseph, Mo.,
is In the city for a stay with his sis
ter, Mrs. A. L. Williams Mr. John
C. Galbreath was presented a P. M.'s
badge by members of Lebanon Lodge
No. 12C A. F. & A. M., at their meeting
last Wednesday night.... Mr. Lizzie
Hale Went to Kansas City, Kansas,
last Saturday to visit parents and
friends,... Word has been received of
the death of Mrs. S. Williams in Okla.,
mother of Mrs. F. D. Forbes, and for
merly of this city. Mrs. Forbes was at
the bedside, of her mother. . . .Lebanon
Lodge initiated 'six members into the
mysteries of Masonry last week....
Rev. J. S. Payne and Mrs. Payne left
Tuesday for Wichita, Kansas, to at
tend nnnual conference. .. .Miss Odes
sa Milman returned to her home In
Kansas City, the past week after
spending the summer with her uncle
and brother here. . . .The Emancipation
Proclamation was celebrated at the
Mt. ZIon Baptist Church last Friday
night under the auspices of tho Gideon
Band. A program arranged by Mrs.
L. B. Moore was rendered.... Mrs.
Pearl Thompson loft for her homo In
Springfield, Mo., last Friday after a
pleasant visit with her aunt,, Mrs. II.
M. Williams and friends.... The mem'
bers of the A. M. E. Church hope for
the return of their pastor, Dr. J. T
Payne, for another year.
NEW QUARTERS FOR TABOR.
Prof. A. R. Chinn, C. G. M., of the
International Order of Twelve, was ia
tho city this week on official business.
While here he conducted the dedica
tory ceremonies of the new meeting
plac which has been specially erect
ed for the order at 1413 Vine street.
Prof. Chinn says this is ono of the
best meeting places that he has ever
seen and the Taborians are naturally
elated over their good fortune in se
curing the quarters upon very favor
able terms. During the ceremonies
which were held on Monday ovening a
fine enlarged portrait of the Chief
Grand Mentor was presented by a
number of admiring friends.
It is again reported that a new
Tuskegee is to be launched upon a
site already purchased near Indepen
dence and back by a large gift from
Mr. Julius Rosenwald.
The Democratic doctrine that a Ne
gro is all right in his place evidently
Infers that public office is not his
place, a decent place to live Is not
his place, nor is it his place to occupy
a position which affords him a digni
fied means of livelihood.
Full line of' School Shoes at Paetfa,
1507 E. 18th St.
