ARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 174.
I3AHRE, VERMONT, . SATURDAY, OCTOHER 7, 1916.
TRICE, OXE CEXT.
B
4.
BULGARS LOSE
MORE GROUND
French, Entering Offensive
on Macedonian Front,
Win a Town
SERBIANS PUSH AHEAD
TO BELA VEDA RIVER
The British Repulse Violent
Counter-Attack Near
Struma River
Paris, Oct. 7. French troops on the
Macedonian front have just entered the
offensive with the British and Serbians.
The war office reports occupation by the
French of the town of German on Lake
Presba. The Serbians, continuing their
advance north of Kaimakcalan height,
nave reached the valley of Bela Veda, a
tributary of the Oerna. British troops,
which crossed the Struna and occupied
Nevolyen, have repulsed a violent coun
ter-nttuck by the Bulgarians.
CHICAGO AWOKE
YESTERDAY 30
DEGREES COLDER
Hottest October Day Descends Over Night
to Temperature of 57, While
Lake Dwellers Shiver.
Chicago, Oct. 7. ChicHgoans yester
day shivered in a drop of the tempera
ture over night of thirty degrees. Thurs
day, the hottest October day on rec
ord here, the thermometer climbed to 87
degrees. At 7 o'clock yesterday morning
the official temperature was 57 degrees.
STEAMER SUNK BY COLLISION.
NO KNOWLEDGE
OF -PEACE MOVE
TO REPRESENT VERMONT.
Boys and Girls at National Dairy Show
in Springfield, Mass.
Boys' and girls' demonstration and
judging teams, covering projects indicat
ed below are to represent Vermont at
the national dairy show Lnd eastern
slates exposition at Springfield. Mass.. on
Nr.at.p Pnnrtwpnt nffimnls Oct. 13
III fU Tli tft nnmnniitra t n a r ,1 i.J,,. m
Know Nothing of Gerard's
Rumored Errand '
ALL QUIET ON THE SOMME.
Extraordinary Calm Prevails All Along
the Line.
Paris, Oct. 7. The lull continues on
the So in me front. To-day's official an
nouncement says the night was passed
quietly along the battle line in France.
RUMANIANS ROUTED.
Along Front 50 Miles Long Bucharest
Admits Defeat.
London, Oct. 7. Turning against the
Rumanians who had been advancing
steadily in eastern Transyjvania Austro
Ilungarian and German troops have de
feated tlio invaders decisively along a
50-mile front. North of Forgaras at the
juncture of the Hotnorod and Alt rivers
near Reps, the Rumanians are in retreat
pursued by the Teutonic troops.
The successful repulse of the invaders
on the southern end of the line was in
the hands of Gen. Von Falkernhawn, for
mer chief of the German general staff,
who only last week routed the Rumani
ans around Hermanstaadt and drove
them back to their own frontier. North
of Reps the Austro-Hungarians recap
tured positions and took more than 200
prisoners. Bucharest admits the Ruma
nian troops in eastern Transylvania
have been withdrawn before attacks by
superior force in the region of Forgaras.
In Dobrudja heavy fighting continues
along the line south of the Constanza
Bucharest railway with Bucharest re
cording progress for the Russians and
Rumanians in the center and on their
left wing.
While, Gen. Brussiloff apparently has
ceased his attacks against the Austro
Oerman lines in Volhvnia west of Lutsk
he continues southward his assaults with
great intensity against the positions of
the Teutonic allies guarding the ap
proaches to Lemberg, capital of Galicift.
Although the Russian attacks were held
up northeast of Lemberg those south
east of the capital, according to Petro
grad, resulted in taking of positions
south of Brezany and the capture of 600
prisoners. Berlin, however, declares that
all Russian attacks in Galicia have been
repulsed and that the Austro-Germans
have taken 1200 prisoners from the
Russians.
In Macedonia the armies of the en
tente allies continue to advance. The
British troops which crossed the Struma
northeast of Saloniki have taken Nevol-
yen which was evacuated by its defend
ers. South of Monastir, Serbia, violent
fighting in the region of the Cerna river
is reported bv Paris.
The artillery continues active on the
Somme front in France, according to the
reports from the war office of all the bet
ligorents.
A delayed dispatch from Constantino
ple tells of the route of Russian troops
northwest of Hamaden, Persia. Tribes
men in Ispahan, says Constantinople,
have revolted and driven the Russians
from the city. Pctrograd, on the other
hand, reports progress for the Russians
west and southwest of Trebizond in Armenia.
Other Vessel Was Seriously Damaged
Near Norfolk.
Norfolk, Va., Oct. 7. The British
steamer Hawkhead, at. anchor in Hamp
ton Roads off Sewoll s point, was run
down and snuk about eight o'clock last
night by the Chesapeake Steamship Co.
bay line steamer, City of Norfolk, out
ward bound from this port for Balti
more with a number of passengers. The
Citv of Norfolk was badly damaged
about the bow, but there was no loss of
life so far as is known. The collision
occurred during a heavy fog.
Captain Hand and the crew of the
Hawkhead were taken off by boats low-
'ered by the City of Norfolk, the river
steamer Poachontas and other craft. Fif
teen minutes after being struck the
British ship had settled in 30 feet of
water. '
Nearly 100 passengers on the City of
Norfolk were at dinner when the crash
came. There was great excitement, but
the officers soon succeeded in restoring
order. The Pocahontas came alongside
the City of Norfolk and the passengers
were transferred to the river craft, but
they remained there only a short time,
being put aboard a bay liner of the Bal
timore Steam Packet Co., which took
most of them on to Baltimore.
Although the City of Norfolk's bow
was carried away for ten feet, the col
lision bulkheads held and she turned
about and steamed slowly back to this
port, assisted by tugs.
VON BERNSTORFF
CALLS IT UNTRUE
Sensational Report Gets Lit
tle Support in Washington
Washington, D. C, Oct. 7. Ranking rnuh .Tr'Ur..iii
uinru.i oi uie stale department eay unit
poultry, John A. Alexander, South Roy
alton; Bertha E. Belknap, Cavendish, and
John II. ondell, W indsor.
2. Team to demonstrate and judge
farm and home handicrafts, Sherburne
C Potts, St. Johnsburyj Orris Jcnks,
St. Johnsbury, and Stanwood Brooks, St.
Jwhnsbury.
3. It-am to demonstrate and judge in
dairy project, Dewey A. Spooner, Barret
KeginaJd Keed, Concord, and Ralph Bal-
entine, East Calais.
4. Team to demonstrate in pig pro
jects, Ralph Hovey, Lyndonville: Alice
Hoyt, Lyndonville; Reginald Grady, Lyn
donville.
5. Team to demonstrate in canning,
bread making and garment making, and
to judge in canning, Dorothy Smith, Jef.
fersonville; Hazel Cyr, Jefferson ville; Ina
Wcstover, Jeffersonville, and Lessie M.
GRANDSON OF
SENATOR CRANE
. HAS PARALYSIS
they have no information to indicate
that Ainbassadcr Gerard is bringing
home a request from Germany that the
I nited States intercede to end the Euro
pean war, and were inclined not to be
lieve the story. Count Von Bernstorff,
the German ambassador, declared he
knew positively it was untrue.
While the department does not believe
Mr. Gerard would accept so important a
mission without notifying his govern
ment, it is realized that available means
of communication between Washington
6. Team to demonstrate in potato, mar
ket gardening and corn projects, and to
judge in potato project, Otis C. Chad-
wick, Randolph Center; Harold L. Poor,
East Brooklield; Edward C Melby,
North J-errisburg,
Ulie teams are to leave their schools
on October 12, and will meet at White.
River Junction, from which place they
will proceed by the 2:30 p. m. train to
Snrinirfield. '
Schools where the young people are
enrolled are planning to jrive them an
CROWD SURGES
INTO GROUNDS
To Witness Opening Game
Between Brooklyn
and Boston
PROGRAM FOR CONVENTION.
in
CAR RIG AN UPSETS
ALL CALCULATIONS
By Announcing That Choice
of Pitchers Would Not
Include Leonard
To Be Used By Vermont W. C. T. U.
Bane Next Week.
The 42d annual convention of the Ver
niont Woman's Christian Temperance
union will be held in the Methodist
church at Barre Oct. 10. 11 and 12.
Tuesday evening Ida Read union will
give a reception in the church parlors
from 7 to 8 o'clock, with the following
procram ; Words of welcome on behalf o
the churches, Rev. B. G. Lipsky; for the
schools, Prof. O. K. Hollister; for the
Woman's club, Mrs. A. Duncan; for the
citizens. C. S. Andrews: for the Y. C. 1.
U Mrs. Grace Waterman ; response, Mrs
O. E. Davidson; music; address, Miss
Mary F. W. Anderson of Boston at 8
o'clock.
The convention opens Wednesday
morning at 0 o'clock with rollcall and re
ports of officers. The afternoon session
opens at 1 :30( when each local president
will tell in one minute the best thing
her union has done each year, in charge
of the county presidents. There will be
a solo by Mrs. Grace Cutler and Rev. Ma
bel T. Winch of East Arlington will give
an address on "Educating Public Sentv
ment." Pledges for state work will be
called for at this time. JUss Jlary r,
and Berlin are hazardous where delicate n"I"r""f a vner k- ido . .o..g
uie route iraiei win prooauiy meet
at their respective railway stations to
cheer the teams.
with
Winthrop Murray Crane, 3d, 111
Disease at Parent's Home
in Craneville.
Pittsfield, Oct. 7. Winthrop Murray
Crane, 3d, the six-year-old son of Mr
and Mrs. Winthrop Crane of Craneville.
and grandson of former Lmted States
Senator Winthrop Murray Crane is ill
with infantile paralysis. The case was
reported to the board of health of Dal
ton yesterday.
GOT FRACTURE OF SKULL.
U. S. FARM LOAN
BOARD GETS
100,000 LETTERS
Many People Seek the Aid of the Board
to Save Their Mortgaged
Homes.
Washington, Oct. 7. Enough appli
cations for farm loan association char
ters to assure the success of the farm
loan banks have been received by the
farm loan board, it was learned yester
day. A bushel of mail a day has been the
average received. Included are 100,000
requests for information about the act
a record, officials think.
One form of request noted by the board
is from persons who want immediately
loans to keep their rural homes and
farms from mortgage foreclosure. A
Long Island woman owning an acre of
land asked the board to extend credit
because she would lose her home, oth
erwise, being behind in the interest on a
mortgage she made to enable her to
live through last winter.
The board was forced to reply that
until farm banks are organized the mon
ey appropriated by Congress i unavail
able. The board yesterday announced it will
hold hearings in Trenton, N. J., Ot. 16;
Harrisburg, Pa., Oct. 17, and Baltimore,
Oct. 18. Secretary McAdoo and Com
missioners Norris and Quick, Lobdell and
Smith will make up the party.
The board wants to obtain the at
tendance of farmers and other persons
interested in or having information about
farms and farm problems. Among the
questions it will take up will be interest
rates, commissions on loan, the difficulty
of obtaining loan extensions and the ef
fect of credits on farms.
Another Man, Hit by Engine, Not So Se
riously Injured.
Bellows Falls, Oct. 7. Michael Car
roll of Bellows Falls and Patrick Lynch
of North Walpole, N. H., 'were struck
by an engine at Wilsons crossing in
North Walpole about 6:30 o'clock last
evening and were taken to the Rock
ingham hospital. Carroll sustained sev
eral injuries,. including a fractured skull,
and Lynch was badly injured, especially
about the face. A third man, who was
with them, was not injured.
subjects are involved. The ambassador,
it is felt, might $e especially reluctant
to attempt to communicate with the ne
part ment regarding ft matter as impor
tant as a peace proposal, with the risk
that his message rniaht fall into the
hands of the allies.
Officials at the department said only a
specific request for mediation would
bring nbout any effort by this country
to effect a European peace. It is felt
both groups of bellisercnts have been so
rigid in their attitude that any advance
bv a neutral would have to be extremely
cautious.
There is a growing conviction among
some officials that a military peace
brought about bv almost direct negotia
tious between the belligerents will be the
probable outcome of the war.
New York, Oct. 7. The New York
Evening Post yesterday published a
story saying that it hai, been learned
from a trustworthy source that Ambas
sador James W. Gerard, now on his way
back from Germany, will lay before
President Wilson a request that the
GETS $1,787.33 DAMAGES
For Death of Boy in Canal at Reads-
bo ro.
Rutland, Oct. 7. The jury in the case
of ictor A. Agostmi, administrator of
Livio Franceschetti, aged five years, vs
the National Metal Krtge Box Co. of
Keadsooro yesterday afternoon returned
a verdict awarding the plaintiff damages
of $1 .7S7.33. Nearly six hours were re
quired to reach a decision. The boy,
I.ivio, was drowned in the defendants
canal and the administrator sued under
a negligence act for $10,000 claiming
that the stream was not properly guard
ed.
Frank Roberts, who has served two
years in state's prison at Windsor, plead
ed guilty to burglary of the East Rye-
gate postnffice and was sentenced to serve
six months at the house of correction
VrpA Riiilev. who u-a hrmiLrht. here from
president use his good offices in suing niittendcn county jail, admitted sending
mm rT vmii uie M.ne. obscene tcrature throuc i the United
'Germany has definitely decided to ap- tte mail, nnrf was fined JS2.1 and costs.
ply to president Wilson, the article R,.Wf wnHnma nf Knrlinirton. a rail
reads, 'to use his good offices, m suing roftd IK)rter, pded not guilty to an in
in. i-u, uu miii-i. iiim m in.t rhiro hk him with hnvmtr a.
learned yesterday from sources in a po- ..;. nf Woin in his possession un-
. : : . - u . i. ..!..., i .. i . . 1 1 : l i - ... ' .
..mm in iwuiiim """""" '" lawfully and wiil stand trial.
formation on ttiee matters. ti. ,rr.,l ,.n. ivl,i..h ten t
1 ra imirinioim liui rtiuumromu rk dineo Tll(.rnv nmrn HIT rami) l
T ii j I - m i
-mines i . ijemru. unci is im iiih way oier
breezes and moderate temperature com
bined to-day to form perfect weather
conditions for the first game of the world
baseball series between the Brooklyn Na
tionals and the Boston Americans.
Boston, Oct. 7. Clear skies, light -Audorson of Boston will give a Bhort ad-
uresn.
Wednesday' evening session opens at
7:30 with scripture and prayer by Rev,
Edgar Crossland; music; address, ''De
mocracy and the Liquor Traffic," "Mrs,
Anna f illinshsst, Beverly, Mass.
-rimrair Mnnilnii at. 0 3ft Hpvntinnal
The question of who would pitch for mpetin Ipd hy Miss Ellen II. Wagner.
uunuin was sun an open one as me 11.1 lu .i.,t;nn f nfflwn mul mc
croas sur?ea into tne lira ves neia wnen morla, M by M w jL Averv.
. ... pi. i,u . ,u iw.. Afternoon session at 1:30, opened witn
this morning. Manager Canrgan had up- gin.,w ,nd prayer by Miss Grace Price;
set all calculations at the eleventh hour rpports. Mrg. rjUdys Bradley; ad-
by authorizing the statement that his dr'e The In(luence of Woman's Vote
selection would lie between Ruth, Shore Morft, jf.. Mri. F. n. Rastall,
and Mays Ruth was regarded as the Manchester Center; introduction of white
'.."..r. i .i.raij ii. iinu urcn r;hhm rermiUr mils C! address by MXS.
intimated that Leonard would be railed
upon, and the reason for Carrigan's choice
was not known.
For Brooklyn it was thought that
Marquard would serve his left-handed
shoots. The identity of the pitchers was
a considerable factor in the making up of
the line-up of either team, both Manager
Robinson and Manager Carrigan relying
on interchangeable outfields to bring out
Ida TT. Rpad nf Saratoga Sorinirs, N. Y.
Thursday evening at 7:30, service of
song and prayer, Rev. B. J. Lehigh; mu
sic and prize speaking in the medal con
test, with the following speakers:
"The Man of the Hour" Grot
Richard F. Crulckshank .
"The Madonna of the Tubs' Phelps
Marguerite Currier
AUTO TURNED TURTLE.
Five Adults and One Baby in Accident at
Waterbury.
Waterbury, Oct. 7. A Ford automo
bile carrying five grown people and one
a.iby turned turtle near the covered
bridge south of this village last evening,
pinning all the occupants down and
breaking one shoulder of Napoleon De-
guy of .Bristol. Uhe others were bruised
and severely shaken up in the overturn.
All were taken to their homes in Bristol
last night after having been treated here.
here, will lay the kaiser's request before
iTesident v llson within a week.
It is a fact, however positively it may
have been denied officially, that the pos
nihility of President Wilson acting as
mediator has been discussed by German
officials with Ambassador Gerard. It is
therefore by no means surprising that
the reports now take definite shape In
connection with Mr. Gerard s trip to the
I nited States.
COME TO TERMS.
to
MONTPELIER
Abie Aaron Arrested on Charge of Breach
of the Peace.
As the result of a fight which occurred
early last evening in an alley leadiutr
from Main street, Abie Aaron was arrest
ed and will be arraigned in court on
charge of breach of the peace. Aaron
and Max Zemell of Randolph, who is
visiting in the city during the Jewish
holidays, became engaged in a heated ar
gument and it is alleged the Montpelier
man Rimes, iemeu in me lace, cutting
his eye and cheek. Zemell's injuries
were treated by Dr. W. R. Harkness and
Aaron removed to the jaiL
Phillip Fraser of Taunton, Mass.. ar
rived in the city this forenoon for a vis
it with relatives. lie is employed by the
Bay State Electric company.
Checklists for the November election
have been revised and posted and the first
meeting of the board of civil authority
will be held Oct. 21 at 7 o'clock in the
city hall.
Among the score or more local peo
ple who left yesterday afternoon and
last evening for Boston to attend the
opening of the world's series games were
i.. 1. Scguin, A. Harris, David Spicer,
Daniel Campbell, A. H. Temple, Elmer
Pierce, Harry Hull, Dr. G. C. Cowan and
Sheriff F. H. Tracy.
Miss Marguerite McKee, who is taking
a nurse's training course at the Hol
yoke, Mass., hospital, is spending two
weeks in the city with ber parents and
other relatives.
William Mackin of upper Berlin street
slipped and fell on an iron rubbish re
ceptacle, one of many on the main
streets, last evening and rut his face
quite severely. He was able to drive
home after having the attention of a
physician. v
Miss Lillian Henry of Barre street,
who has been spending a three weeks'
vacation with friends at Ifc.rchester,
Mass., returned home last evening.
vinwe raoia Dasenail tanatics are
crowding the city hall auditorium to
watch the play-o-graph show the world's
series games play by play, Montprlier
seminary and St. Johnsbury academy
will be playing the autumn game on sem
inary campus and the football teams of
the high school and state "aeries" will
clash at Intercity. Both games start at
3 o'clock.
Nearly All New York Distributors
Meet Dairymen's Demands.
New York, Oct. 7. Representatives of
milk distributing companies handling
virtually the entire supply of the city
except that dispensed by the Borden,
Sheffield farms and Mutnal-DcDermott
companies agreed at a conference late
last night to meet the demands of the
Dairymen's league for an increased price
and six months' contract, under certain
conditions.
The proposed condition would be pre
dicated on the stipulation that the price
be paid without, question for October,
November and December, but for Janu
ary, February and March the surplus
milk they must take from the farmers
be paid for on the basis of cheese and
butter prices, or as much as they 'can
get for it after turning it into butter
and cheese. It was explained that the
dealers in making contracts with farm
er agreed to take all the milk produced
and felt the producers should share their
loss on the part that could not be sold
To adjust future relations between the
dealers and the distributors the confer
ence submitted to the league a proposi
tion providing for a committee of 11 to
be appointed as follows: One each by
the governor, the mavor, the commis
sioner of agriculture, the wholesale deal
ers, the retailers, the state grange, the
New York milk committee, the Wicks
investigating committee, the health com
misskmers of New York City and two
bv the Dairymen's league. The leaders
stated that they can decide from a sci
entific as well as a business standpoint
the proper price to pay for milk. The
findings of the committee would be final.
President Brill of the Dairymen's
league favored the rommittee proposi
tion, it was stated, but before any eon-
tracts were signed Insisted on a con
ference with John J. Dillon, state com
missioner of foods and markets, and with
members of the executive committee of
the league.
its duties yesterday and was discharged.
Nothing was made public as to the num
ber of bills found and thoe not found,
but Foreman Park II. Pollard of Chester
handed Clerk F. S. Piatt a bundle f
about a dozen papers, indicating that a
lot of business was considered.
added strength and having in mind thefTh Everlasting W'iP"" Tinlimj
ability of the different players to hit
left or right-handed delivery. Before
the game it appeared that the line-up
would be as follows:
Brooklyn. Boston.
Johnston, r. f Hooper, r. f.
Daubert, 1 b Janvrin, 2 b.
Myers, c. f Walker, c. f.
Wheat, 1. f
Cutshaw, 2 h. . . ,
Mowrey, 3 b . . . .
Olson, s. a
Myers, e
Marquard, p
Umpires
Quigley.
Connelly,
..Hoblitzel, 1 b.
Lewis, 1. f.
. .. .Gardner, 3 b.
Scott, s. s.
Carrigan, c.
Ruth, p.
O'Day, Dineen,
MUSTERING OUT TROOPS.
Sylvia Rizzl
"Blunders" Anonymous
Howard Wilber Geake
"The Storv of Patsy" W'ggm
Marion W. Anker
"Waterloo, Our Fight, His Victory".
Conner
Loraine Loranger
These meetings are all open to the
public. Delegates and officers are enter
tained free. Yisitors' meals furnished
for 25 cents. Dinner and supper will be
served in the vestry of the Methodist
church. Those who have promised food
for these meajs will please send it in be
fore Tuesday noon. Those having rooms
for the delegates will please notify Mrs.
Grace Waterman, 21 Camp street, chair
man of entertainment committee.
"AND MURDER"
WV LEFT OFF
Verdi jf Assault with In
tr o Kill Was Found .
Against Albano ,
SHOT LUIGI CHERUTI
IN A BARRE HOUSE
Jury in Washington Countjr
Court Reported Ver
dict Last Night
Eusebto Albano of Barre was found
guilty of assault, with intent to kill, on
Luigi Cheruti by a jury in Washington.
county court shortly before 8 o'clock, last
evening. Albano, who since hi arrest in
New York City 10 days after the shoot
ii.g affray at the Webster avenue house.
has been out on bail of $5,000, will be
sentenced by Judge Fish sometime next
week. The jury returned once to inauire
as to the penalties for simple assault.
assault with intent to kill and assault
with intent to kill and murder.
The indictment charged the latter
crime but the jury in reporting their
verdict left off the last two words, mak
ing the offense somewhat slighter, al
though the statutes provide the same
penalty for each offense.
The jurors who heard the case were
paid at the clerk's office last evening and(
excused for the remainder of the term
subject to the call of Judge Fish.
HEARD DAMAGE SUIT.
BETHEL IS HOPEFUL.
TALK OF! THE TOWN
The sopohomores of Spaulding high
school held their first reception of the
year at the Spaulding assembly hall last
evening. Nearly all the members of the
class were there to enjoy the evening.
which was passed in playing of games of
various kinds. Refreshments of punch
and wafers were served. Members of the
schorl faculty attended as chaperones.
The Bay State Artesian Well Co.,
which has been drilling a well for Perry
brothers, in the Townseud pasture on the
west hill, rompletod the work Thursday
night and yesterday the well was tested
to tee the amount of water which could
be tslen from it in twenty-four hour.
From 8 o'clock yesterday morning until
8 o'clock this morning the well pumped
15 gallons of water every minute or 21,-1
SiXl gallons during the 24 hours. The well,
is IitsW well up the hill side in the
pasture and its depth is about SO feet. Hubbard.
A party consisting of Messrs. J. K.
Sweeney, Maurice McCarthy, P. N. Mur
phy and Leon Deering visited friends on
Seminary street yesterday, while on their
way from their camp at East Alburg,
where they have been encamped during
the past threo weeks, to their home in
Manchester, N. IT.
At the Swedish Baptist church to-mor
row, Sunday school will meet at 10:30.
Send vour boy and girl and we will take
gotri care of them. At 7 p. m., preaching
service, extra music, and singing. Tues
day and Thursday, 7 p. m., evening school
for studying English. Reading, spelling
and composition work will be taken up.
Free to all. N. C Edwall. minister.
The funeral of Arthur Isabelle, the
young son or ilr. and Airs. jNapoleon
Isabelle of upper Graniteville, whotsl
death yesterday followed an Injury re
ceived in the Boutwell, Milne and Var-
num quarry a week ago, will be held in
St. Sylvester's church at Graniteville
Monday morning at B o'clock. Rev. Jo
seph Turcot will officiate at the services.
James Manos, who has been in charge
of a shoe shining parlor and hat cleaning
shop in the basement of the Durkee block
for the past four years, has disposed of
his business at flfl North Main street to
Nicholas Struntsos, who arrived here
from Burlington last night. The new
proprietor is to take possession of the
business Monday morning and he will lie
assisted by his brother, Har-y Struntsos,
who has been employed in Winooski for
some time. Both young men have had
considerable experience in the shining
line. Mr. Manos has not completed his
plans for the future, but he expects to
visit relatives in Burlington, inoofki
and Lowell, Mass., for a time.
Among officials of 100 distinctive trade
unions canvassed by the Literary Digest
for a straw vote on the presidential elec
tion, members of the granite cutters' and
paving cutter unions were asked to
register their preference. Out of 457 re
quests of this kind, 332 leaders and offi
cials claimed that their members favor
Woodrow Wilson's re-election. Benson,
the Socialist candidate, hail 47 votes and
Charles E. Hughes 43 votes. Thirty-four
officials thus queried were non-committal
or replied that sentiment among the
members ' their trades was so divided
as to preclude the possibility of an ac
curate reflection of sentiment.
Seventy-tive members of the class of
1917 at Spauldinir high school journeyed
ast evening to llliamstown for a husk
ing bee at the farm of Kimball Chyno-
weth. Two barges were required to
transport the seniors and the members
of the faculty who accomponied the stu
dents. The corn huskers were hospitably
received at the Chynowrth farm and no I
Four Companies Released From Federal
Service To-day.
Burlington, Oct. 7. Companies I of That Big GraniU Contract for Chicago
Urattleboro, K of Springfield, L of New- Building May Be Secured,
port and D of St. Johnsbury were mus- .
tered out of the federal service to-day. tV' tt ru-
Companies A of Rutland, B of St. Albans, raor " j7.i
and M -frf Burlington will be mustered hai1 "n ,AT"A the con f
out Monday and Companies F of North- furnish matcnal for the proposed Vest-
field, G of 'Winooski and II of Montpe- f Lnion terminal at Chicago, or at
lier will be mustered out Tuesday. lnt w" waroeo on inursuay,
An organization which it is hoped will was ienie yesterday at the company s
finally comprise all .of the members of (,ffi,,a in thl P,,ce- WRS !.
all National Guard organ nations which that when action by the Western Lmon
saw service at the border has been in- deferred last spring a date about
augurated by the first regiment of in- this time was named at which the mat
fantrv. Vermont National Guard. The ter would be again taken up; but owing
following temporary officers have been to the continued abnormal cost ot steel
elected for the organization, which will and consequently of any buildings of
Supreme Court Took Up Marion Howe
ts. Central Vermont R. R.
Supreme court took a recess yesterday;
afternoon until Tuesday morning after1
hearing arguments during the day in the
case of Marion Howe, pro ami, vs. Cen-'
tral Vermont railway. H. G. and F. E.
Barber represent the plaintiff and J. W.
Redmond the defendant. The plaintiff
was given damages of. $780.78 in Wind
ham county court. '
NEW VERMONT CORPORATION.
Boys and Girls' Agricultural and Indus
trial Exhibition.
To awaken more general interest in
vocational education and industrial train
ing through exhibits is the aim of the
Vermont State Boys' & Girls' Agricul
tural & Industrial Exposition, Inc., which
filed articles of association to-day with
the secretary of state. 7 he ofhee of the
organization is to be located at Burling
ton and the subscribers are Archibald C.
Hurd of White River Junction, E. L. In-
galis, M. B. Chittenden, F. B. Jenks and
Henry A. Hagar, all of Burlington.
NIGHT GANGS WORKING
be known as "The Military Order of the
Centipede": President, Col. Ira L.
Reeves; treasurer, Lieut. Harold F.
Wakefield; secretary, Sergt. Mai. H. B.
Shaw.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Revs. W. A. Davion and J. S. Braker
returned this forenoon to Burlington,
after having assisted in services at the
First Baptist church.
Reginald Davis commenced a vacation
of a few davs from the E. M. Lyon gro
cery to-day and will leave this afternoon
that class, even if taken up, nobody ex-
I pects a contract will be awarded at pres
ent.
The Woodbury Granite company has
I a bid in for the contract and considers
its chances good when the time comes. At
present about 15 men are working at the
local sheds, where usually 200 or more
are employed.
SUSPECTED CASE AT BRANDON.
Schools
Have Been Closed Because of
Apprehension.
Brandon, Oct. 7. School was closed
for Plainfield, where he will yisit at the here yesterday noon until further notice
home of his parents. Ion account of the development of a sus-
Mr. and Mrs. William Gray of South pectcrl case of infantile paralysis, jwyr
. ..... J in. 1 1 ii. i i ; Au .i .. .. i. ....
Main street left this morning for Leba
non, A.-H., where they will visit at the
home of Mrs. Gray's sister, Mrs. L. Ax
tclle, for several days.
A continuance in the case of State vs.
Mrs. E. Albano was granted by Magis
trate H. W. Scott In city court this morn
ing. Mrs. Albano, whose husband was
found guilty in county court last night
of assault with intent to kill, was con
victed of selling Honor in city court a
fortnight ago and was given two weeks
to raise a fine of $400 and the costs inci
dent to her prosecution. In the extended
period she hopes to receive favorable
news from her son, who is in California.
A second continuance was granted to-day
in the case of State vs. Guilo Valsengia
lo, charged with a breach of the peace,
who is to receive sentence Monday on a
plea of guilty entered last Saturday. Leo
Granai, the boy whom Valsengialo, a
blacksmith, is alleged to have struck
across the arm with a pair of tongs, was
on hand this morning to see his alleged
persecutor sentenced.
County Agent F. H. Abbott returned
to Barre this morning from Duxburv
where he attended the Duxbury grange
fair and children s exhibit yesterday aft
ernoon and evening, ine lair was a
great success in every way and one of
the largest crowds wss in attendance of
any of the grange lairs in Washington
county this year. The children's exhibit
was a big feature of the entertainment,
as the children showed eoroe nice things.
Supt. Darrows of the Duxbury school
district, gave a talk which was followed
bv a well planned program. To-day Mr.
Abbott is gathering plant specimens to
send to Springfield. Mass, to be displayed
at the convention later in the month.
tie Marsette, the nine-year-old daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Edward Marsette of
Maple street. The girl was taken ill
during the noon recess. She had not been
feeling well for several days and had not
been in school, but felt well enough to
attend Thursday morning ,nd was al
lowed to go. One of the child's legs ap
pears to be paralvzed. The state board
of health has been notified and will prob
ably investigate the case at once.
TALK OF THE TOWN
In Effort to Get New State Building En
closed Before SnowfaU.
Every effort is being made to rush
along the construction work on the new
state building at Montpelier so that the ;
structure may be enclosed before snow
flies, which will enable the nnishing work
to be done during the winter. For the'
past two nights a gang of workmen have !
been employed during the evening until'
after 11 o'clock.
Clergyman Found Dead.
North Easton, Mass., Oct. 7 Rev. ;
Stephen G. MacGill, 28, curate of the
Church of the Immaculate Conception,:
was found dead shortly before noon yes.
terday in the Hoe shops swimming pool, j
He apparently had been in the best of
health and spirits recently.
TALK OF THE TOWN
He has secured a prize toot of alfalfa
trrntt ii on the Georire McFarland alfalfa
time was lost after the seniors arrived nlot on the South Barre road, the seed
in getting down to the corn shocking , beinjr sowed in June, 1915. The root of
business in the granary. AftertrJ a!
luncheon consisting of coffee, cake, dough
nuts and sandwiches was served. The
faculty members who mad the trip in
cluded Miss Waugh, Miss Carter, Miss
Newborg, Miss Crosby, Miss Robinson.
Miss Howard, Miss Eva Smith, Miss M.
the riant measured 44 inches in length
and had a good brush of small roots
which branched from the main root stock.
This field of alfalfa has been harvested
four times thi year, with five tons of
hsv for tha crop. The stalk of bay which
will he sent to Springfield was the fifth
Smith, Charles L. Brown and John T. gronth and meaur about 14 inches
l f .1 1 . .l t . ... . . . r t i . -
irou iai loot to u u uie jtxtjc!
Members of the Meadow Brook Oolf
club met last evening and nominated a
committee to make preliminary arrange
ments for the annual Meadow Brook ban
quet, which is to be held on the eve of
Thanksgiving day. The banquet, which
will be held in Clan Gordon hall, will be
followed bv dancing and the presentation
of the trophies.
At the regular meeting of Ida Read
chapter, W. C. T. I"., which wg held Fri
day afternoon when the members were
entertained by Mrs. Fred D. Berkley of
Park street, a part of the time after the
regular business session was given over
to completing arrangements for the an
nual convention of the state W. C. T. C,
to be held in Barre next week. Accom
modations for nearly all of the delegates
expected have been provided.
Miss Mary Given, a teacher in the
schools of Chelsea, is passing the week
end at the home of her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. James Given of Richardson street.
Atty. If. Irving Foster of Claremont, N.
H., returned to his home to-day, after
passing a few days in Barre on business.
Mr. Foster will go from Claremont to
Boston to-morrow to be present for the
second game of the world's series. He is
a cousin of George Foster, the well known
Red Sox pitcher, but Boston Georire is
not the only Foster in the family with
a big league record. Atty. Foster, him
self, won considerable renown as a twirl-
er in the old Boston National team un
der Tenney and in his college days he
played first at Dartmouth and then at
Boston university. He i an enthusiastic
Red Snx fan in the present scries and
Mr. and Mrs. John Mulroy of Brattle
boro were among the visitors in Barre
to-day.
Dennis Sweeney, a-motorman, began a
vacation yesterday from li difsies on
the interurban line of the B. &. M. T. fc
P. Co.
Mr. and Mrs. Z. Schofield, who have
been visiting friends on North Mam
street for several days, left this morning
for St. Johnsbury, where they will yisit
for a few days.
John Muiry, who has been employed ;
at the A. P. Abbott store during the'
past five years, completes his duties '
there to-night and will leave for Port- i
land. Me., where he will enroll in an au-!
tomobile school.
With the completion of the state case t
against E. Albano in county court last '
night, the criminal docket is ended and I
most of the cases set for trial in the :
September term will be continued, to ap- i
pear again in the docket printed for the ;
March terra. State's Atty. F. E. Gleason i
considered recalling the gTand jury to'
hear the evidence in the case of State vs. j
Pasouale Coia. but the respondent will .'
not be brought to trial in the present
term. Friends of the man who figured In
a North Seminary street shooting last
Sunday made renewed efforts to secure '
bail for the man this morning. A num- :
ber of Baire cases where prosecutions '
were started in the late sp-ing and sum
mer have been added to the hang-over
,iflt- . . ,
Atty. Stanley C. Wilson of Chelsea,
chairman of the state Republican com
mittee, called on several Barre people
vaerrlav while on his way to the cap
ital in Vrsnire for the opening of state
headquarters for the party. Most of.the
heavy artillery that i to be used in the i
Vermont broadsides this year will not be
brought into the state until the latter
part of the month, or on the eve of the
election. It is reported that ermont a
representatives in Congress, with the ex
ention of Senator Page, who is ill, will
be available for campaign duty in their
n.tive state after Oct. la. Local Kepurv ,
limn are anxious to have at least one
rally in Rrre before Nov. 7. So far a
can be learned nothing has been done in
the wav of procuring Demncratio cam
paign si-rakers for Barre. In 1912 Dud
ley Field Malone. rollector of the port of
New York, and Congressman William
naturally looks to the New Enirland Murray, afterward postmaster in Boston,
teaaa to Via the bunting aain this year, sr-oke for the Democracy.
