- UAILS
From 8an Frtnclaoe
Hllonian, OcL 1. ;
For San Francisco
Lcgan, Oct. 5.
From Vancouver:
Niagara, Nov. 1.
For Vancouver:
Niagara, Oct IS.
3:
Evening Bulletin. Est 1882, No. 639S
i Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV, No.
12 PAGE? HONOLULU, TEBBITORY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, OCTOBER o, 191G.-12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
?: 1
BMJSM' STKME-BKM
; P0LieE BATTLE WITH CLUBS
3
II- r v -X ' ' III IM I v
r i
iiditio a
SA
jar . .
K2W YORK WOMEN IN W
KERS
. . - . i". . ... - .. i
6
O
r
J
I'V
j
WATERFRONT QUIET
AG1I; nOVOYfSr.l
APPEARS Oil K
Police Patrol Docks Unmolested
and Men to Handle Cargoes
Are Plenty
STRIKERS HAVE LITTLE
HOPE OF OUTSIDE HELP
New Wage-Scale But No Rec
ognition of Unionists is
Attitude Expected ,
' Announcement that Honolulu era
nlcvers of . waterfront labor are pre
pared to effect a new wage-scale for
longshoremen may be made witmn me
next 24 hours.
This, and the fact that there is a
steady aupply of labor available under
the existing scale, with the result
that the strike has failed to tie up
cargo-hand ling, , are among the devel
opments of the day in the waterfront
' strike.
This matter of an increase in the
wage-scale is known to have been un
der discussion for. several days past
an4 there were reports In waterfront
circles this morning that a meeting
of shippers and advisers had been
held to complete discussion and agree
ment so far as the local interests
are concerned. But there are several
San Francisco officers, In some cases
head, of steamship and other com
panies affected whose consent '. must
be gained, and the best Information
obtainable is that up to a late hour
today the desired and expected infor
mation had not come from the coast
Rumor differs as to what the new
wage-scale is likely to be. The report
most generally believed is that local
men favor 30 cents an hour for a
nine-hour day, with 40 or 45 cents for
overtime, Sundays and", holidays.
It Is certain that the employers of
waterfront labor are not negotiating
nor Intending to negotiate with the
strikers, through any committee or
organization." The. ,probablHty Is -that ;
if m new scale is decided" upon, the !
'mployers will give " ad notification j
whatever to the new union,, but. will
simply put the increase Into effect
perhaps with a statement tor the bene
fit of the public, and such unionists
or strikers as seek, employment and
are taken .will come under the new
terms. . In other words, the . employ
ers are not recognizing the union nor
spokesmen on behalf of the strikers
as an organization.
Shipping and other transportation
men, commenting upon the water
front situation today, declared that
as soon as the police got some organ
lied patrolling into effect and were
prepared to stand their ground in the
face of mobs, the rowdyism ceased,
and there were no "more exhibitions
of attempts to wreck- or derail trains.
- They are also Inclined to attribute
seme of the apparent discouragement
ct the strikers to the fact that news
wa1 published, this momiag that the
! shoremen's strike In Seattle had
collapsed. The strikers' here now
have little hope, apparently, "of get
ting assistance from mainland unions.
Two new developments today in the
union's end of the stevedores' strike
are of significance In relation to the
general situation.
Breckons to Succeed Edwardson
The first one is that Attorney, Rob
ert W. Breckons, former U. S. district
attorney and now counsel for several
strikers arrested yesterday and Tues
day by the police for alleged activity
In the riots at Pier 19, will be named
as a member of the union's arbitration
committee, to succeed Jack Edward
son, who resigned yesterday because
of disgust with the strikers' tactics cf
violence and , force, to which he has
been consistently opposed since the
strike began. , .;;; . . : ;
Agitator Returns to Coast
Second in Importance but neverthe
less significant is the statejnent to
day, by members of Honolulu Local No.
28-26, International Longshoremen's
Association. . that on the Matson
steamer Wllhelmlna yesterday an or
ganizer sent here by the San Fran
cisco Riggers and Stevedores'; Union
to take charge of strike activities of
the Union stevedores . here, left for
San Francisco, returning to report to
San Francisco headquarters ; the ' re
sults of his work here.
Organizer Was in HUo
Uolon officials said, today that after
thWunion organizer; . whose name
thai 'would not give out, as they said
ie had requested them not to make
It iiMt naoliM Ran Fltnpllim. Mi
report will undoubtedly decide whether J
h San Francisco union will aid the
Honolulu local by declaring cargoes
loaded here "by non-union strike
breakers unfair and refuse to ; dis
charge them at the coast
' This organizer was in Honolulu
more than a month. He came on the
Wilhelmina, according to union men,
on August 29. and after completing or
ganization of. the local . stevedores'
mlon left for Hilo. where he looked
over the field in that port Whether
he tried to organize a union there Ik
not known, but at any rate no trouble
has been experienced at Hilo to date.
Work on the Matsan steamer Manoa
went along smoothly, today, with Mc
Cabe, Hamilton & Renny saying they
had 210 strike-breakers working her.
of whom 50 are claimed to be Ha-
'(Continued on past two)
Late
News
COUNCIL BLUFFS. Iowa, Oct. 5 -The president spoke here today from
the rear platform of the special train cn his way ' to Omaha, and in his
Irief address said that he wishes women could vote. ,
SUIT TO TEST CAtlFORNlA ANTI-ALllN LAW -
RIVERSIDE, Cal., Oct 5. A suit to escheat and forfeit the home of
Yukichl Harada, a Japanese, has been filed In court here to test the con
stitutionality of the California anti-alien land ownership law. ' Harada his
three mluor American-born children, who are tatned as the defendants.
Harada bought the house in the American district as the children's guar
dian. . ' ' '".
WltSON tOOKS TO VERDICT OF FUTURE s
OMAHA, Nebraska, Oct. 5. In an address at the Commercial Club
luncheon today President Wilson discussed the business problems of the
country and the attitude of his administration.
"As against the verdict of the next few years I do not care about the
verdict of 1915," he said, and declared that formerly it was thought right
to exploit the world, but now it is seen to be necessary to serve the
world. "American can lead the world if she will only see the way. Men
who Insist on doing things In the old way will be pushed to the rear," he
said. -.
DEMOCRATIC MANAGER SUED BY O'LEARY
NEW YORK, N. Y., Oct 5. Vance McCormick. chairman of the Demo
tratic national committee, was served today with papers of summons in a
suit against him for $50,000 damages by Jeremiah O'Leary, president of
the American Truth Society. O'Lea-'y alleges that he has been libeled by
McCormick, the suit being based on alleged statements by McCormick ac
cusing O'Leary of disloyalty to -his country in connection with O'Leary 's at
tack on President Wilson. O'Leary's counsel said that he intended to sue
newspapers who had questioned his right and abused him for sending the
: telegram to the president which drew the criticism from McCormick.
HUGE INTEREST IN WORLD'S SERIES GAMES
BOSTON, Mass., Oct 5. The weather promises to be fair next Satur
day for the opening game of the world's series and a tremendous crowd is
expected to attend. Interest is sensationally high.
The Star-Bulletin will cover the world's" baseball series with even more
completeness and despatch this year than in previous years. Beginning
Saturday morning, returns will be received at. the Star-Bulletin office on
Merchant street and a cordial Invitation is extended to the public to watch
the news of the great series of the sporting year as It comes inning by in
ning from Boston. Everybody invited I First returns are expected as early
as 9 o'clock, perhaps earlier, accord ing to the speed with which the first
Inning is rolled off. V 1
V SEPTEMBER TUBERCULOSIS RECORD LOW
; Total deaths from tuberculosis in Honolulu and districts of Oahu and
other islands during September were 27, according to a report from the
anti-tuberculosis bureau this afternoon. There were, a total of 49 cases re
ported during the month, of Which 17 were in Honolulu. Cases last year
un, to this time were 186, and this year to date are 1S5. Cases for the past
month are lowe- in number than at any. tl toe in 18 months.
WOULD FURNISH RIFLE TEAM TRANSPORTATION ;
Gen.1 Robert K. Evans, commanding the Hawaiian Department has been
authorized by, cable from.tbe war department at K Washington to allow
'$2497 In transporution expenditures for a civUian;rifI.e team td and troin
Honolulu for the Jacksonville rifle matched according to word from head
quarters this afternoon.- The matches begin on October 20, but It is hot
thought that any team here has planned to take advantage of the offer.
v.' : ' i'x l- r -:V: '-'.v.V;:4. -x
, " ARREST ALCEGED DEFAULTING POSTMASTER
: Nelson K. Kaloa, postmaster at Pauwela, Maul, who is charged in a
complaint sworn to by Postof flee Inspector Thomas J. Flavin with having
misappropriated $8117.20 of the funds of his office,' was arrested by Marshal
- J. J. Smlddy this afternoon, having voluntarily given himself up to the fed
eral officials, according to the district attorney's office. He has been bound
over to the federal grand, Jury, which meets at 10 o'clock next Monday
morning. : . v.' " v'''? ' ' ';.'..' : '
WEATHER BUREAU FORECASTS PROBABLE STORM
. With a kona wind, which blew steadily most of last night and lashed
the ocean into whitec'aps, registering a velocity of 17 miles an hour this
afternoon, and the barometer much lower than normal, the U. S. weather
bureau announces unsettled weather conditions and . a . possible storm and
rain. The barometer at 1:S0 this afternoon was down to 29.85, and yes
terday was also low, standing at 29.80. The relative humidity was high
this mornmg, 79 per cent at 8 o'clock, so that a heavy rain tonight would
. not be a surprise to the forecasters. . i ; C - ' ; ' '
HAWAIIAN MtJS.C CRAZE GOOD FOR ANOTHER. YEAR v
' That the mainland craze for Hawaiian music Should continue at least
another year, and that the: popularity of Hawaiian songs' has not ; yet
reached the crest of the wave are predictions made at the Rotary Club
luncheon today by W. D. Adams, manager of the, Bergstrom Music Com
pany, who has recently returned from the States. He told in a short and
snappy talk of the immense output of songs and graphopbone records by
the large houses, and of the huge number ,of . organizations engaged In
catering to the taste for island music John Macormack, the noted Irish
tenor, Is going to sing one of Adams new songs, "The Isles of Aloha," for an
encore throughout his winter cQncerts. - Ho also announced that. Mme.
Ernestine - Schumann-Heink, the great prima donna, is planning to visit
Honolulu between Christmas and New Year's and to give two concerts
here.- :. ' '' -, -;; ' ' . ' . ' .
SAYS INTER-ISLAND PRESIDENT USED EPITHET
Oh, damn the cattle, was the comment of James A.' Kennedy, presi
dent of the Inter-Island Steam Navigation Company, when approached by
G. J. Waller, Jr concerning cattle shipments, according to the latter's testi
mony on the witness stand this afternoon, at the utilities hearing. Waller
said that Kennedy had used the words in 1914 after having1 been approached
twice on the subject v ;
Cattle are sometimes slaughtered and meat sold without being passed
by an Inspector if Dr. Monsarrat or Dr. Case are unable to be present at the
slaughter house, he said. The witness did not think Dr. Raymond's - meat
is ever inspected by an official.: He said that sometimes the slings used to
hoist cattle and calves are not placed properly, which results in the ani
mal's dropping back to the deck. He had seen a calf's back thus broken.
The meat was sent to the slaughter house and may have been put on the
market he stated. - During the last two weeks the Inter-Island company
has paid much closer attention to complaints vthan previously, he testified.
BROOKLYN AND BOSTON
BOTH WIN LAST GAMES
(AuoeUtod PrH ty Fidml Winleu)
BROOKLYN, N. Y., Oct 5. Brook
lyn and Boston both won their games
today in the closing games of the
National League series. The Brook
lyn team will meet the Boston Red
Sox at Bra ves field on Saturday after
noon. The results of the games today
were as follows:
! NATIONAL LEAGUE.
At Philadelphia Boston 4, Philadel
phia 1. 1
. At Brooklyn Brooklyn 7, New York
SATURDAY IS HOLIDAY
BY TERRITORIAL LAW
V f f 4
" .-
Governor Pinkham has asked
the Star-Bulletin to call atten
tion to the fact that next Sat--f
- urday,. being election day, U a
4- holiday by the territorial law,
and hence does not call for an -f-
executive proclamation. .' -f
.. ' ' .:
tttlt ftl It tl ttt
NO CLUE FOUND AS
TO SEVERED LEG ON
BEACH NEAR K0K0 HEAD
Although the police have searched
the country in the vicinity of Kokb
head for a clue which might lead to
the discovery of some missing person
to whom the limb found on the beach
Tuesday night might have belonged,
nothing has been learned and the of
ficers say it will probably remain a
mystery.
Deputy Sheriff Asch and Police Sur
geon Ayer, who went to Koko head
Wednesday, buried the leg there but
held no post-mortem examination nor
called a coroner's jury as two-thirds
of a body is necessary to lawfully con
stitute a dead body.
Asch says no one in the Koko head
country knew of a death or .loss by
drowning and nothing of that nature
has been reported recently at : the po
lice department ' . .
Ayer believes the, limb came, from
the body of some person who had met
death In the last few. days but scouts
a rumor of murder and dismembering
by opining that the limb was torn from
the trunk by a shark.
OARD TO PROBE
ADAJ LAV IS
UTS CHOICE
Goethals and Two Federal
Commissioners Selected
By President
(AuociaUd Pnw fey Ftdml WirclMt)
OMAHA, Neb., Oct. 5. On, the ar
rival of President Wilson here for one
of the important speeches of his
Western tour, announcement was
made of the men he has "chosen as a
board to investigate the workings and
probable effect of the Adamson eight
hour railroad law. The fhree he has
selected as Maj.-Gen. George W. Goe
thals, builder of the Panama Canal;
Interstate Commerce Commissioner
Edgar E. Clark and George Rublee of
New Hampshire, a federal trade com
missioner. '
Gcethala will be chairman. He said
today in New York that he has not
yet" been offered, the position offi
cially, but that he will accept if of
fered, as "an officer of the army's
uty is to obey.",
Loan Fund Body Meets Today
io Discuss Plans for
Water Project ,r
; - '
Because the ' plans and specifica
tions for the Hillebrand Glen water
project as prepared by James T.,Tay
lor, engineer, contains suggestions for
the use of 175 extra cres lot drain-'
age area besides that which feeds the
into the project this mornsTS ;, ;
'tThis s angle, which was Introduced
at the meeting of the Oahuioan com
mission ' this" morning, was discussed,
to considerable extent by Taylor, lEn-gineer-Fred
Kirchhoff, and the coni
mlssloners in general It is 176 acres
more than Governor Pinkham gave
notice of In a letter filed with the
commission today quoting figures
from the .superintendent of hydro
graphy for the Maole stream. , V
--At the conclusion ' this morning's
meeting the commission voted to call
upon the governor and present the
plans and specifications. Chairman
Charles R. Forbes will arrange for a
conference at 10 o'clock next Wed
nesday morning.
Suggestion Causes .Discussion
Forbes suggestion to see the gov
ernor before voting on the plans, pre
cipitated a -lively discussion in which
A. D. Castro, commissioner, had a
leading part T . ,.
"If you merely want to put this up
to the governor as a matter of cour
tesy and to exchange views on the
project, then all right" said Castro,
"but if It's to get his sanction or re
jection of it as a guide to what we
think we ought to do, Tm opposed
"If a study of this plan convinces
me that it is feasible and proper for
us to authorize It, why rn vote for 1U"
he added.
Forbes pointed out with some vigor
that he didnt suggest the visit to the
executive, from that standpoint He
said, however, that the eoVernor . was
entitled to the courtesy of a confer
ence.
"It I thQught that this commission
didn't have judgment enough to vote
for itself," he declared,. "why I'd get
off of it"
Castro thought the governor might
say "no" to the plan, but Forbes
thought not if it appeared sensible
to him.
When things had grown calmer a
vote was taken, instructing the engi
neer to change the specifications in
. (Continre on page two)
Girl Taken With
Mormons to Be
Sent From Coast
Gertrude Johns, 15 Years Old,
of Maui, Ordered Deported
' By Commissioner
(Associated Press by Ted-rkl Wireless)
f SAN FRANCISCO. Cal., Oct. 3.
Commissioner of Immigration
White today ordered the deporta-
4- tion of Gertrude Johns, a 15-year- -f
f ol(fgirI of Maui. She arrived In
San Francisco with Mr. and Mrs.
E. W. Fifield. Mormon mission- -f
4- aries, as their daughter, re pre- 4
f sentlons of this relationship be-
4- ing made to the immigration au- -f
-f thorities. It wa& intended that.
f 6he should go to school in Idaho.
.The girl is homesick: and anxious -
to return to her people.-
4-, . ' - - ':: ' .
fttf 1 1 1
llSli
Mother
Jones
Ur
Them to
ges
'Raise Hell !
Noted Female Agitator's Talk
Leads Them to Attack Trol
ley Cars; Another Small Riot
By Women at Health Sta
tions, Demanding Milk
( AiiorUtW Pnu br rtdimt Wu!m)
NEW YORK. N. Y.. Oct. 5. Ffve
hundred women, mostly wives of street
car strikers, after listening to a fiery
speech by "Mother" Jones, the femin
ine agitator who became noted for her
talks to striking miners in Colorado
and Michigan; mobbed street cars run
by strikebreakers.
"Mother" Jones denounced the
strikebreakers, declaring that the
women ought to take radical action
against them. The women responded
by rushing from the hall, attacking
trolley cars with stones, shattering
windows and driving away the car
crewfe. The police with drawn clubs
rushed the mob of fighting women but
so fiercely did they resist that the re
serves had to be called.
Many women were struck and sever
al arrests made.
"Mother Jones declared that "the
women are too sentimental. Instead
of staying at home thinking of trin
kets they ought : to be out raising
hell!" . ;
WO NAMED TO
; (iuocUtd Frs by f odersl Vlrelei)
OMAHA, hfeb. Oct 5. Ma j.'-Gen:
George W. Goethals, builder of the Pa
nama canal, and Commissioner Edgar
Ew Clark of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, have been selected ' by
President Wilson as two of the three
men wno will investigate for the ad
ministration the effects of the new
eight-hour railroad law.
'.This announcement. was made today
on the arrival of the president here.
Mr. Wilson was greeted by large
crowds. ; . .'''
ALLIES 'PLANES
II
(German Official) '
BERLIN, Germany Oct. 5. The
German admiralty reports that on Oc
tober 1, in the afternoon, ' seaplanes
of the aero station at Zeebrugge,
Flanders, were pursued by a hostile
seaplane squadron. In the course of
the combat which developed one hos
tile machine was shot down. All of
our raiders returned unharmed.
BE LOST; FIRE
SWEEPS HOME
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless)
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Oct. 5. Fire today
destroyed the main building of the
Christian Brothers College here. Two
of the brothers, Cormac, aged 93, and
Clemens, 72, are missing and it Is
feared they .were lost in the flames.
Several firemen were hurt by falling
walls.
WOMEN STORM HEALTH
STATIONS, PROTESTING
AGAINST MILK FAMINE
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless)
NEW YORK, N Y., Oct 5. Five
hundred women, mostly foreigners and
many of them carrying babes in arms,
today stormed two of the health de
partment stations in Harlem, fearing
that the milk supply was insufficient
and determined to get some for their
babies. The milk shortage is acute,
it being estimated that there is only
35 per cent of the usual supply available.-'
.'j'- .: ' :"v- ' - - -
Later in the day the Borden Milk
Company, supplying a fifth of the milk
used, announced that it would meet
the demand of the Dairymen's League
for an increase to farmers of 45 cents
per ,100, pounds! It is . expected that
this win bring more milk Into the
city' at'opce. .:. '- .'
EIGHT-HOUR LAW
II ATTACK
UPON ZEEBRUGGE
AGED EN MAY
THRUST ACROSS DAME ENDS
DISASTROUSLY; SLAV ARMIES
BUG NOTABLE TRIUMPHS
INFLICT SEVERE DEFEAT ON TURKS WEST OF TREBI
Z0ND, ARMENIA, AND GAIN ON SOUTHEASTERN LINE
AGAINST TEUTONS GREECE IN FINANCIAL STRAITS
SCOTTISH AND IRISH TROOPS PERFORM EXPLOITS IN
BALKAN FIGHTING
(AsMflated Frees Srrlee hr Federal Wlreleas)
EERUN, Germany, Oct. 5. The Rumanians In the region of Bekok
ten, north of Fogaras, and on both sides of the Strehl valley In the vicln-
ity of the Hatseg mountains, are in retreat today.
SOFIA. Hulgaria, (Kt. ". Iluinania's oiup in throwing troops
ai-ross the lannbe south of Bucharest in an 'attempt to flank Gen.
von Mackenj-en's forees operating in the Dobrudja district has ended :
in disaster.
The invaders have sustaiued a complete defeat and their force
are so shattered and disrsed that they are virtually wijied out
while the few, left on Bulgarian soil are being hunted . down by par
lies of Bulgarians familiar with the country.
To combat the Kumanian thrust three days ago, Bulgarian troops
were rushed from Kustchuk and the newly gained Kumanian fortress ,
of Turtukai. It was rumored that the Bulgarians were abandoning
the latter but their move appears to have been to send reinforcements
fgainst the invading Rumanians, who numbered from 1-.000 to III,
000. The Bulgarians fell upon the .Rumanians, who had been cut
off from retreat by the severing of their pontoon bridges across the
Danube, and inflicted tremendous blows. x
' While the Rumanians were 1eing. thrown kick here, on the I)ob-i-udja
line the German-Bulgarian army was advancing" deeper Into
the enemy's country, the efforts by Rumanians and Russians to check
the advance being frustrated. ( -
Russians Start New
Victory
Over
d lMvTROORAI Russia, Oct S.Resuming their offensive west
ofr Trebizond,: the Russian: trH)ps under direction of Grand Duke
'icolaevitch have inflicted, a severe defeat upon the Turkish troops
massed in Armenia to resist the invadent t?; V' ' . v . r 7 ' , .
In cooieration with a Russian fleet which steamed down , tho
Black rea, th9 Russians cut the opposing lines to piet-es and ore pur- :
fuing thcremnants of the Ottoman army. : i vr;Xv:'.''t -V'.:i
; An important fortified position in the river Karaburmum region
las been captured, and here too heavy . losses were inflicted on the
Turks. ;,:, ; ;;,-::; ry-' ' v--: r' ' -; .;. : ' ; ' . : "
On the roiand-Galicia front the Russians have made distinct
progress south of Volhynia.' Hostile positions at various jwints have .
been captured.-
Zeppelin Seen Part-Submerged in
Sea; Germans Trying to Save It
ESBJERG, Denmark, Oct. 5r Fishermen returning from the sea
report that they sighted a big Zeppelin, partly: submerged, north
west of the ; island of Rylt. German warships are attempting to
save it, a squadron being nearby. It is belie-ed the- Zeppelin was
one of those taking part in recent raids.
British
on
Gain
DUlga
: LONDON, Eng., Oct. 5. The British troops in'the Balkans have
captured the town of Yenikui, two miles west of the Stroma river,
in hot fighting against the Bulgarians. The Scottish and Irish troops
especially distinguished themselves in the fighting, inflicting heavy
losses on the Bulgarians. ; - ; . '
Greek
Goveroment
LONDON, Eng., Oct. 5. A wireless from Rome today says
that the Greek government is in severe financial straits and is nn
f.ble to handle its public debts. It has suspended payments and
there is a general moneys shortage and a cessation of business.
Russians Suffer Vast Losses on "
East Front, Says German Despatch
(German Official)
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS RE
PORT, OcL 4. On the battle front
north of the Somme during the day
an artillery fire constantly increasing
reached a high Intensity in the after
noon on the Morval sector. Strqng
French attacks against our positions
near the Rancourt w.ood at SL; Pierra
Vaast were repulsed, partly by hand-
I to-hand fighting. One officer, 128 men
and two machine guns were captured.
British advance near Thlepval and
Monquet farm were easily repulsed.
In the eastern war theater on Prince
Leopold's front,- the Germans broke
down Russian attacks - with bloody
fosses. West of Luck the previous
day the Russians suffered a new and
heavy defeat .The troops of Gen
erals von Knobelsdorff and von der
M&rwitz received the hostile charges
securely and calmly, though-several
charges were made. Not - a yard of
terrain was lost and the dead Rus
sians number a thousand. i
r Southwest of Rovno first sergeant
send down from an" , aeroplane 1st
Lieut. Cosset and fetched. him up again
after '24 hours. Cossel in - several
places blasted up railroad tracks from
llotno to Brody.- " ', . , "
- In the Transylvanian war arena, in
Drive With
Turks
Armenia
in
: v i .
v
nan
in
i Georgeny valley, the Russians attack-
ed several times without success, west
oi . raranaa ocaaiiung some aaran
tages. X. ;.;' : . ': '.
We are making a stand before Fo
garas, west of Calnem,' the southern
outlet of Rotenthurm pass. In conse
quence of the battle of Harmsnnstadt
and the combats with dispersed troops
since taking place, we have taken
more than 100 men. .In the Hatae;
mountains their efforts were useless. ;
On Obansca height our allies have
gained terrain. -. ' -, .
. In the Balkan war . arena von J Mac-
Rensen's encircling attack with Bulga
rian troops has forced Rumanian
troops, who had xrossed the Danube,
to escape - by hasty ; flight. On the
Macedonian front several new posi-.
tions have been occupied by us. North
west of Tagino , lake, the enemy still
occupies Karados, : on the left bank
of. the river Struma. - ' ' . . - .
'WILL SUCCEED. TERAUCHI
Spoisl CsbU to llwIi;iliipb
TOKIO, Japan. OcL 5. General Ue
hara of the Imperial.jJapanese Army
will be appointed by the Emperor as
governor-general of Korea to succe- ?
J Count Tcrauchl. -
,
Front
Money
