&
NIGHT
EXTRA
4
fcueumg
'FINANCIAL EDITION
m!S3BPff5Sfefe'
feiger
)L.m.-NO. 19
TY FLIGHT
tVES FORCES
OF RUMANIANS
T
tint? Army unvcu
mom Bulgarian Soil
After Severe ueieat ,
tRAIL FORGES AHEAD
Columns Only Twelve
Miles From Monnstir,'
Paris Reports
i TV. Oct 5 The Rumanian
t&t Inradcd Hungary near the
Gate" of the Danube has made
brorress near Orsova, the Ger-
IfftT Office admitted today.
Jn trootis that invaded Bul-
. V.U been defeated in battle and
. t...v nu tho Danube. All re-
-rAvtA today indicated that
llimanians, facing superior num-
escaped by a masterly bit of
fWH Marshal von Mackcnsen drew
i eehuns of troops from the Kust-
lr ad Tutrakan fortresses and
them against the Rumanian
U invasion. Caught by an en-
movement the Rumanians had
i but to retire, which they did
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, OCTOBER o, 1910
Corntont, 191ft, t tni Pciuo Lienors Commnx
"MR. HUGHEfc," WHO SPOKE HERE
fiaWwestern front, the fighting of
i iMt twenty-four hours has been of
Japortance. The French cap-
d'ulae heavy guns from the Ger-
, bat on that section of the Somme
held by the British there were
artillery duels.
btisg of great bitterness con-
i en the eastern front, the Austro-
forces making a stubborn
especially in Volhyrlia, before
i Hpeatecl assaults of. the Russians.
J -Brussilofl's forces were com-
I iopurchnse dearly all the ground
iffa the Teuton defendcrain that
I wvrar.
fsieaonia, the French forces driv-
lAMonastir, have crossed the
W, north of Fiorina, pecupy-
riuage or iiui, twelve mues
AT.
h:A (Mike victory, in which Scottish
IX .w '. ....
i jsny troops aisttnguisnea . tnem-
Wlen won by the British on
Im "River front. Tho Bul-
Ism mm been driven from the im-
AtMlim of Jcnikoi, between Seres
( the-Strama.
U vf ,.!, ,
KS DEFEATED
.JTOT ESCAPE BY HASTY
n.rnnT tip.rt.tw AQSRnxa
r t. vrr "M M
t ' LONDON. Oct. E.
Mk Romanian army that crossed the
i sad Invaded Bulgaria has been de
in r battle, but the Rumanians
L
KBrmin War omce sUted In an of
rNrt"tnat the Rumanians vera able
liasWey a hasty flight before the en-
taiuciu of the Bulgarians and Ger-
Kent wireless service put out a dls-
J k sealed In Ducharest that Austrian
l destroyed the brldae across the
I by WDlch thd Tllimnnlana kmm.iI
I IWaarla."
ftoetohg Information oonfllcta with
.lpatch from Sofia, saying; that
trShad been lanriA fram hrtat- In
, "
MDnln were defeated by soldiers
wn we Bulgarian garrisons In
a and Ruatchuic.
PWnftnniTt ,,- r
Aseae-Ittimait.n , .- .
k -- ' -' intensive asrainsc
Sttnam's army m Dobrudja oon.
War'Ofllee. In miVinv .hi.
Ii3Vi ot th0 "P'ure of thirteen
" urman allies.
IAN8 RMVPTflDPn
, 1EATEN BY BtJLGARS
arieit TAKING VILLAGE8
w. .... SOFIA, Oct 5.
lUu . . env'0Pa and de
. 7. .l ' Rumanian bat.
Daaub. .' V men whlcl crossed
' (Woe today. """"mem rrom the
SSr".'? "uht by an en-
' e th. Viv . ..tD'gan "tream
" some of tiT. V . monnors had
ld.r. !ponioon l"'ldKe over
OT.?"11" Interfering
io tne north
lwSAru tLiT. tr",ned on
w. :: . w vxacL numhi
h.,l,.afl.n,tlJ' Hwn, but u
lr.bru';,hV,J,uanl1 ' wr
!Se fan r.uCcvliuan T
THE WEATHER
FdiREHAfyn w
klS? and vWJy-Fafr
4I a. Uu ...
:?ssxr-
4HMSJI JBB
Jii ui rrr7T
twi
y"
mmWxJ Atv
W LilllllllllllllllillHlllll ' jH:v "' i
w 1 lBaaaaaaaaBnHE'iiiHh ss' 16
IKt lBsssssssssV sK H
f J iiiiiiiiiiKk'-----W-.-L. . I
4i i1 LiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiisLiiiiiiiiiiiiaiLiiiiiiiHflikw sV
al .. LiB&flBBHKafvttu' bw
v i -.-bHIIIIIIIIIW. kiiiiiiiiiiHkiHKMn3x' F
msl-sL----HR"' '
ini-sllllllll-sllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll H
MUNITIONS TEST
PLANT PROMISES
BOOM FOR JERSEY
Mays Landing Real Estate
Values Double at Im
' provement Plans
TO . BE NATIONAL . ASJ3ET
MATS LANDING, N. X, Oct. 5. The
Bethlehem SteAl Company's ne,w proving
CTflund totbe, istabtlshed here 'on a 0,000
acre trae?wit't4ranatIonal asset, accord
ing to Charles Mathews, manager of ord
nance of the oompany.
CJtlxeni here have received the' tidings
of, the development of the tract, long a
wVte, area, with rojolclng, as It means a
big boom for the town. Already real
estate values have doubled and thero Is a
scramble tp get land In the vicinity ot
the operations.
In his official signed statement, a copy
ot which has been filed with tho State
Board of Consen atton, Engineer Mathews
says: '
"We desire this area of land primarily
for the proving of ordnance material,
principally for the United States Govern
ment, which, of course, requires a con
siderable length In range, and In this present
case the advantages from so level &
country attracted our attention to this
location.
'At this time, of course, we cannot make
a statement as to what other Industrial
development we might undertake with the
property extending from Mays Landing to
Tuckahoe.
LABOB EXPENDITURES
"The proving station alone will Involve
the expenditure of a large sum of money
In construction work and equipment, heads
the employment of several hundred men,
but you can also readily appreciate the
almost unlimited possibilities as to Indus
trial development jwd activities In'connec
ton with the Maya Landing property. You
This is the Republican candidate's
double, who hoaxed most of the
5000 Shriners, including city of
ficials, at tho Metropolitan Opera
House last night by an eloquent
"campaign" address. He is Dr. W.
Edward Buhlcr, of Chicago.
WASN'T HUGHES, HIS
DOUBLE TUT ONE OVER'
AT SHRINERS' MEETING
"Candidate" Addresses 4000
Members.and Many" "Fall
for!' Campaign Joke
at Opera House
CHICAGOAN DECEIVES 'EM
Continued en r Fire, tlamn Three
GERMANT0WN COUPLE,
WITH GUEST, GET NIGHT
REDE IN POLICE PATROL
Prominent Residents, Mr. and
Mrs. Samuel I. Henderson and
Miss Alice Cox, Accused of
Disorderly Conduct
SHOTS CAUSED A.RREST
Two prominent residents of the Lincoln
Drive section of Oermantown, Samuel I.
Hendrlcksonj his wife, Mrs. Jean Price
Hendrlckson, with thelrhouse guest, Miss
Alice Cox, were taken from the Hendrlck
son residence at Lincoln drive and Sedg
wick avenue, shortly after midnight to
day and held at the Qerraantown station
house on a charge of disorderly conduct
Subsequently they were released, and- at a
hearing before Magistrate Pennock later In
the day all three were discharged.
Mr. Hendrlckson characterised the episode
and the attendant ride from his 'home to
the station bouse In the auto patrol as a
humiliation and an outrage. Through the
pelloe and a friend of the Hendrlckson fam
ily varying aeoounts of the aKatr w,ere
obtained.
These voriAa agree Jht piste shots
were h4 in the vietaUy' of the I lender,
sen hems. The pMe say a eemplalnt was
made to thm that the Mm? ow from tM
I4wn of the Hewdriokson property, whlob is
one ft the handsomest pWoes in the lgh.
borfcod.
Aomratng to th Heridrtoksoa version, the
botig wh la as IUOtoa MUmont at
Can tamed ma M y. Utmm Site
Shriners throughout the city today say
there Is every Indication that Charles E.
Hughes, the Republican candidate, will be
the next President of the United States.
Their conclusion Is based upon tho ova
tion tendered "Mr. Hughes" last night when
he addressed more than 4000 members of
their organization at the Metropolitan
Opera House.
The audience burst Into an uproar when
Receler of Taxes iW. Wetland Kcndrlck
walked out quietly and'announced that "the
Republican prcsldental candidate" would
say a few words.
And then "Mr. Hughes" appeared. He
looked dignified and conservative. He
bowed majestically right and left to Mayor
Smith, Senator Vare, Treasurer McCoach
ind other officials In the boxes.
The "candidate's" lips were moving and
his eyebrows were elevating, while his arms
flashed through the air and his fists
thumped the table in the' center of the stage
viciously.
But what he, was saying no one could
tell, for cheers, cheers and more cheers
rent the air. Enthusiasm was so great that
no one could check it. Applause and the
stamping of feet mingled with shouts of
"we want Hughes," "on to Washington,"
"you're elected now,"
The bedlam didn't appear to bother
"Mr. 'Hughes" In the least. He had a
speech Jo make and he Intended to finish
It Between the bunches of bedlam this
much was heard; " and the high cost
of living the Panama Canal brother
ly love a square deal shoulder to
shoulder next November obliterate
Mexico present administration vic
tory sure "
But when the "candidate" had finished
there waS a buzs through the opera house.
Many were perplexed. Others felt com pi I,
cated.
This afternoon Mr. Kendrlck admitted
that the speaker was oo much like Mr.
Hughes that he couln't help bringing him
on from Chicago to address the meeting.
Of course he's a brother Shrlner and his
name U Dr. W, E. Buhler,
Evening Ledger Experts
to Cover World's Series
THE baseball experts on the staff
of the Eveninq Ledger will write
the detailed accounts of the world's
series games between the Boston
Red Sox and Brooklyn Dodgers for
the final editions and will review the
previous day's play in the early
editions,
No newspaper in the country has
a more competent staff of baseball
writers than the Evening Lhmjhk,
eensoquently, no outside assistance
will be solicited for this paper in
covering the big wries, whieh be
gins at Boston Saturday afternoon.
The EytWiNO Lbdocx export who
wHl follow tho fortune of ffa eon
tending clubs arc ChaadUr D.
ltkitr, GraotlAad Riot and Eo4rt
U 2 L-
$2 WHEAT SEEN
BY END OF YEAR,
CHICAGO REPORT
Western Grain Men Mark
Crop Shortage and Allies'
Demands
BAD ARGENTINA NEWS
Situation Rendered Worse by
Word From South Ameri
can Farmers
CHICAGO, Oct. 5 Two-dollnr wheat be.
foro the first of January was predicted by
Chicago grain men today. Prices today,
both cash and futures, ranged about 10
cents lower than the record prlco estab
lished In Januory. 1915, Immediately after
the outbreak of the European war. The
heavy decrease In this j ear's crop, dis
couraging conditions In Argentina, and the
demand of the Allies for aallnblo Aus.
trnlinn and Canadian wheat, were pointed
to as factor In tho present high price.
FARMERS WAIT FOR ADVANCE
Dealers in cash wheat say that Mrtually
all the northwestern farmers arc adhering
to the decision not to sell wheat1 at less than
two dollars a bushel, whllo tho receipts of
grain from other primary shipping points
nre extremely light December wheat has
reached $1.50 , as against 1.06 one year
ago. May Is J1.58H. against 1.07?i a
year ago. Cash wheat Is selling around
11.65, depending on tho grade, while the
millers are eagerly snapping up all a all
able milling wheat.
As a result of wheat conditions, millers
say, flour continues Its steady rise. Special
brands wero quoted today In Chicago nt
J5.10 a barrel wholesale. Millers say that
If tho wheat advanco continues flour prices
will hac to keep pace.
Members of the Board of Trade said tho
present high prices could not bo blamed
on speculation. They said that wero It
not for open trading on the Board of Trade
big elevator men long ngo would havo cor
nered Uio supply and wheat would hae
been much higher than at pcrscnL
PRODUCE PRICES UP.
Produce priceB nre trailing closo behind
grain. Potatoes are S1.45 a. bushel whole
sale, compared to 48 cents a year ago
Eggs, butter, poultry and other supplies
are correspondingly high In most cases.
Dealers blamo bad weather for the potato
shortage and say tho hot summer damaged
poultry and accounts for high egg "prices.
With poor crops goes tho heavdemanrt
of warring countries for food, and dea'l
era nafd lower prices wero not to be ex
pected this winter unless an embargo was
established to keep foodstuffs In this country.
QUICK NEWS
BOSTON.
0 0 0
t-
v'
ARGENTINA CAN HELP LITTLE,
SAYS ITS CROP STATISTICIAN
Surplus of 1,000,000 Tons, but Ships
Are Scarco
BUEN'OS AIRES. Oct r. Argentina can
offer little hope for reef from tho high
flour and bread prices In tho United States
by sending her wheat surplus. Chief Lahltte.
of the Statistical Bureau of tho Ministry
of Agriculture, said today.
The last Argentina wheat crop was below
normal, but there remained a surplus of
nearly 1,000,000 tons for export. This wheat
PHILLIES 0 0
Ncff and Tingresscr; Fortune nnd Adams.
NEW YORK.... 100
BROOKLYN.... 0 0
Tosreau nnd McCarty Appletoh nud Meyers.
I
CHICAGO (N.L.)... . .
CHICAGO (A. L.)... r-
ST.LOUIS(A.L.)...
ST. LOUIS (N.L.).., ' ,
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Lnuiel lace, 2ycnr-olds, 5 1-2 furolngs Reprobate. 113,
Bavlod, $4.20, ?3.30, S2.40, won; Tonce do Leon, 113, Troxler, ?12.10,
$0.20, second; Scyllln, 110, J. McTnggnit, ?3.00, thlid. Time, 1.07 1-5.
Second Laurel rncc, steeplechase, selling, 4-year-olds nnd up,
nbout 2 miles Itncebiook, 140, Noe, ?G.40 ,$4.40, $2.00, won; March
Court, 135, Smoot, 0.30, $3.40, second; Promoter, 135, H. Craw
ford, $3.40, thhd. Time, 3.47.
Third Lmuol ince, lmndicnp, 2-yenrolds, O furlongs Bally 113
Bchuttlnfiei, $15.80, $5.00, $3.00, won; Stinight Forward, 115 J
McTaggart, $2.00, $2.30, second; Ticket, 120, Byrne, $2.40, third'
Time, 1.13.
First Windsor r.cc,( selling, 2-ycnr-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs Mab,
100, Drcycr, $13.00, $0.40, $3.20, won; Wishaway, 07, Thurber,
$13.00,j$1.20, second; Sybil, 105, Alexander, $3.10, third. Time,
1.07 1-fj.
KAISER GrES CROWN JEWELS TO WAR CHEST
PARIS, Oct 6. The JfaUer has contributed alt tho Imperial family's gold plate
nnd part of tho crown JtAvcls to the Gorman Treasury to help carry on tho war,
advices reaching hero today stated.
TWELVE MORE "TANKS" SHIPPED TO BRITAIN
NEW YORK, Oct C Twelve "tonka.'; or land monit.orp, such as tho English
havo used with such good results on theomme, were in tho caf&o of-the Whlto.
Star liner Baltic, which sailed for Liverpool today. The Baltic carried 16,000 tons
of war supplies t
NO NEW PARALYSIS CASES SINCE MIDNIGHT
Physicians are looking forward to a termination of tho infantlo paralysis
scourge. Thero Iibh not been n new case or death reported to tho Bureau of Health
in this city slnco midnight. The decline Is nttrlbutcd to tho cooler weather. Tho
total number of cases for tho year is 895 and that of deaths is 262.
WRECKED ZEPPELIN IN NORTH SEA
LONDON, Oct 6. Dispatches from Esbjerg, Denmark, this afternoon report
that fishermen came upon a partly submerged Zeppelin in tho North Sea, thlrtyflvo
miles northwest of tho Island of Sylt, on Monday. It was being guarded by German
destroyers and other vessels.
Continued on 1'ase Fire. Column Three
RICH PITTSBUlMEil
DROWNED AT SHORE;
STUNNED BY BLOW
Frederick Davidson Meets Death
When Hurled Into Pier
Jetty by Comber at
. Atlantic ,
SEASON'S ONLY TRAGEDY
ATLANTIC CITV, N. J, Oct. 6 Fred
erick Davidson, a wealthy rittsburgher,
who, w'lth his wife and two children had
been summering at 400 Paclflo avenue, was
drowned off Virginia avenue early this
afternoon. Melvln Ilothwell and Oeorge
Clcodfellow, both local boys, made a brave
attempt to reach him before ho went down
for the last time, but although they did
battle their way to his side In a canoe after
some desperate work In the surf, Davidson
was dead when brought ashore.
Mrs. pavldsorr, who had been enjoying a
final plunge In the surf with her husband
before they left the, resort for their home
in ritUburgh, witnessed the tragedy. She
worked with the physician In trying to
resustlcate her husband and collapsed when
It was found no pulso could be aroused by
artificial respiration.
The drowning, the first this year, caused
tremendous excitement along tho Board
walk. Davidson, a good swimmer, had gone
out beyond the eurfline and was doing some
fancy diving stunts. He got near the Steel
Tier, and a towering comber suddenly
caught,, him uoawar.es. .He. was flung out
of sight in a smother of foam. Ills (tody
reappeared for a moment oft the end of a
Jetty that Juta out Into the surf parallel
with the pier.
Life guards had been ordered oflf the
beach for the season and startled 'witnesses
ot the accident shouted In, vain for help
frefn tho beach, Bothwell and Goodfellow,
on the pier, brd the nfcoyta ,Mid rushed
to the sand. The ha4j,aoeU4er the
Boardwalk and qulokly teuMfc4 it rtC4
dllag with all sped through th eorabera.
Ill tWQ bAVS t-AAtllMl thtK adrif .. jk. ......
Tta body Had gone out of aicbt. People
vast -v JSWV WI mm frV tw HK WMr It
had bMA but w. and oat JtA TeSi.
woat over. He get (a bod n waillrtS
lute U saawo and -worked ks , fcaalu
RUSSIA PUTS LIMIT ON FAMINE SHOE PRICES
STOCKHOLM, Oct. C Boots and shoes In I'ctrograd have becomo so cxpenslvo
that tho Husslan Government has put a maximum price of 12 on all footgear.
Many stores hao been closed in protest
SISTER OF CZAR DIVORCED FROM GERMAN DUKE
LONDON, Oct. G. nmperor Nicholas, according to n Iluuter dispatch 'from
I'ctrograd, has confirmed a decree of the Holy Synod dissolving tho marriage
of his sister, the Grand Duchess Olga. to Duko Peter of Oldonburg. The Grand
Duchess retains her Imperial tltlo and Is permitted to remarry.
GERMAN AVIATOR SEVERS RUSSIAN RAILWAY
HUnLIN, Oct 5. "Southwest of Itovno." says an official statement, "Lieu
tenant von Cosser was landed, by Pilot Windlsch and brought back by him
twenty-fours later after ho had severed tho Ilovno-Brody railway lino by the
uso of explosives."
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRICE OKE CENT
FRENCH DESTROYED ZEPPELIN IN AIR RAID
AMSTEIIDAM. Oct 6. The newspaper Lcs Nouvclles says that in raids by
French aviators on Mannheim, Germany, a Zeppelin 760 feet long was destroyed
and much other damage done. Twenty-six workmen wero killed and forty wounded.
ITALIANS TRIED AS TRAITORS; ONE IS SHOT
ROME, Oct 6, A military tribunal at Ancona, which tried four Italians
on a charge of high treason, has gnntenced ono of them to be shot in the back
and two others to hard labor for life, whllo the fourth man was acquitted.
GASOLINE SUPPLY FAILING, U. S. OFFICIAL SAYS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6. According to Van II, Manning, director of the Uurenu
of Mines, the prlco of gasoline Is higher because the supply is falling. "We are
facing a serious condition In tho petroleum industry," he said. "Wo have prob
ably reached the summit of our crudo oil production in this country. Our futuro
supply of petroleum Is sufficient only to last us twenty-seven or thirty years at the.
present rate oi consumption.'
THIRTEENTH STATE GUARDS LEAVE FOR BORDER
MOUNT GRETNA, Pa., Oct 5. Tho Thirteenth Infantry, Colonel Ezra II. Rip.
pie, Jr., Scranton, entrained for duty at El Paso to All the gap in the Second Penn
sylvania HilB0.de caused by the ordering home of the Tenth Infantry. Tho regiment
consists of eight letter companies, supply and headquarters companies, Scranton
machine gun company and companies from Honesdale, Moscow, Stroudsburg and
Dloomsburg.
NEW YORK CAR STRIKE COSTS COMPANIES $5,000,000
NEW YORK, Oct 6. The car strlko to date has cost tho railway companies ot
New York npproxlmately'B,000,000. Of this amount tho Interborough Rapid Transit
Company and the New York Railways Company will pay a largo share. The strike
has beep in effect twenty-six days. The strikers are losing 121,000 a day In wages
their total loss up to today being (546,000. They have received $65,000 in benefits'
making their net loss $491,000, in .twonty-six days.
POLICE CANVASS OF VOTING LISTS WILL BEGIN MONDAY
More than 200 policemen will make a thorough canvass of the registration Mats
In every division In the city after next Saturday, the last registration day, Tto
canvass, which will bo conducted under tho direction of the Cemmlttoe of Seventy,
wHl start nex Monday, -
FAMINE NEAR IN BELGIUM; FOOD REQUISITIONED
LONDON, Oct, S. Famine la at the doors of Bolgium because of tho requiai
tlons of the German on the conquorod population, according to the Ts corro
apoftdont at Latwaan. Mt to practically mwMalwabes, bo says, and butter wry
scarco. Potato hvo not bsjsu soon for mm Umm, m pries t kaooqtlns; h.
poasiUo. Com U (4.i fowaa, pfcoooteU. j$Mj soosw $, acttl sufe!-, IS cwu.
NEW JERSEY MAN
SLAIN BY BANDITS;
2 OF FAMILY SHOT
Brother of A. J. Rider, Gran
berry Growers' Presi
dent, Killed
HIGHWAYMEN ESCAPE
Members of Hnmmonton Auto
Party Victims of Attack Sev
eral Thousand Dollars ,
Missing
One New Jersey man was murdered and
another and his daughter shot today by
throe 'Italian hold-up men whllo on their
way to a cranberry bog nt Hampton, thirty
mllos from Mount Holly, with several thou
sand dollars with which they Intended pay
ing their employes. Tho highwaymen es
caped. Tho dead man Is believed to have been a
brother of Andrew J. Rider, of Hammonton.
N. J., president of tho New Jersey Cran
berry Growers' Association. A. J. Rider
and his daughter wero shot and are said
to bo in a serious condition.
Tho two men and A. J. Rider's daughter,
Mrs. Slathers, of Hammonton, were in an
automobile ahd on their way to the bog
when attacked. The placo where the mur
der occurred Is about thirty miles from
Mount Holly and In a section sparsely in
habited. The detail of the murder and double
shooting are lacking and Sheriff Stecher,
ot Burlington County, accompanied by
Ellis Parker, county detective, started for
Hampton as soon as they learned of tho
tragedy.
Detectives believe the shooting was dona
by employes of the cranberry bog, who wero
familiar with tho movements of the owner
of tho property.
Tho highwaymen stepped Into the road
and hld up the automobile party at the
point of revolvers and demanded that tho
bag containing the money bo turned over
to them. When It was refused a struggle
followed, in which Rider's brother was mur
dered and the other occupants of the car
shot
BIG JUBILEE FAVORED
BYMAYOR FOR GUARD .
UPONRETUMTOCIWc.
New Orders for Troops to B
Mustered Out in Body at
Gretna Make Huge Cele
bration Possible
COMMITTEE IS NAMED
Mnyor Smith said enthusiastically
today when he heard that the returning
troops would be mustered out In a body
at Mount Gretna:
"If It can be arranged. I am in favor
of a home-coming celebration for the
entire National Guard which will make
the whole, nation tingle with reawakened
patriotism.
"Here we have" a large body of finely
trained troops, and it would be a crcat
thine to have them mnrth through the
streets of Philadelphia. I will bring
this matter before, a meetinc of the
committee this afternoon."
Announcement today from the War De
partment at Washington that the return
ing troops from the border would proceed
directly to Mount Oretna, Instead of coming
to Philadelphia, and be mustered out In a
body, gae members of the special counfTl
manlo committee the hope that a home
coming reception of Htate-wlde significance
could be held In Philadelphia. Such a oels
bratlon would mean that the entire Na
tional Guard of Pennsylvania would com
to Philadelphia and participate In a grand
jubilee.
Adjutant General C. C. McCain of tho
War Department made the announcement
that the troops would proceed to Mount
Oretna and be mustered out there.
"Orders have been Issued," ho said, "for
the First, Third and Tenth Pennsylvania
Regiments to go to tho State mobilisation
camp, and these orders stand unless Sec
retary of War Daker Issues orders to tho
contrary. The troops will be mustered ot
at Mount Oretna In a body.'1
The First Regiment was scheduled to w-
rive In this city Monday, and the special
Joint Councllrnanlo Committee on Military
Affairs had planned, to gle them a ropelag
reception, which Included a parade up Broad
stret with exercises in Convention Hail."
This reception will now tyive tp be post
poned and it is probable that the &tm
mlttee will get to work on plan far a,
celebration which will bet broadened to la
clude tho entire Guard. ' " 1..
uenerai Mccam said It would be i
days and perhaps two or three wh tufcir
the troops would be mustered out at Mesjajt
Oretna. i 7' '
Ha said I '-We nut hv a. tk
physical examination me.de of alaji
and get a eoeiptete history at, uv
dlvlduaV for future visa. The tTumlnillp! "'
must be made by yaVtar arasy 'sMrssssML
and these mutmn aa ml Baas' sjat
, CeaHimM m Was ,1rW OM
" - " pr t
Man FmhhI Jfawgtftg Na MtjM
AHJBWWW, pa,' Got I. AMar a
toag saw st) Mm body of Henry ttoasU. a
rlek Iterator Hvlag aaar WwvmvUlt was
fouad today An alarm u latacd last
ulgtit when a did nut return hum aa
Ma taass was tow raasnta slmitaHy. fa
S3lvma;j
- .
i'T
