THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow fair,
cooler at night ; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 6s; lowest, 60.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 8.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 35.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916. Copyright, 1016. bu tnt Sun Printing and PuhlliMng A$)OdaUon,
ONE CENT
In flreater Kcw York,
Jersey lily and Newark.
Rlnewhera
TWO CENTS
RUMANIANS ARE
DRIVEN BACK TO
LINE OF DANUBE
I,,,
Mackcnscn, by Encircling
Movement, Foils Effort
at Invasion.
TEUTONS GIVE WAY
IK THE DOBUUDJA
iiiisso-Rumanian Army
Continues to Hammer
Centre and Right.
2.000 31EX CAPTURED
IX TRANSYLVANIA
Berlin Admits Successes of
. Invaders West of
. Parajd.
T.ONto.v, Oct 4. The Kumanlan at
tempt to strike Von Mackensen'o rear
by throwing: troops across the Danube
near Turtukul has fulled, according to
in announcement In Berlin, which
Suva on encircling attack forced the
Rumanians' to fall back.
In tho Dobrudjo, however, tho Rus
sians and Jlumaniuus hnvo captured u
position on Von Mackensen's right
v. Ine at Amzacca, taking tcven Kims,
ir.oro than 1,000 prisoners and much
material. In ttpito of the stubborn re
istanco of Germans, Uulgam and
Turks the uttack continues to make
progress aguinst tho Teuton centre.
Russian gunboats' nro cooperating In
the uttack'Jy bomburdlng Von Muck
ensen's left tlank Iron, the Danube.
Iluiunalana Take SLOOO Prisoners.
Ilumantan victories In Transylvunla
have resulted In tho capturo of mora than
",000 Austrian and German prisoners
and eight machine sons. The1 Ruma
nians have had to fall back mar Fctro
teny, but announce that they have de
stroyed the machinery ut tho coal mines,
for which tho town Is chlcily valuable to
an army.
The (Irrraan official statement an
nouncing the defeat of the ltumunliins
vim dossed tho DnniiW on u pontoon
brldae docs not suy thut the Itumanlans
retreated back to their own side of the
Ii i 'rcuous reports navo Mild thut .
n.v ..nuv nua otruy ii.siruycii nun ii
is thought here that tho Itumunlans still ,
rc on tho soutli bank. Tho statement!
rajs simply lhat the ltumanlann
"with.
drew in hasty Might."
The Ilulgars announco that they have
0"upled the Island of Malakalafat. In
the Danube opposite the llulgarlaii town
and fortress of Vldln, und bombarded
the Kumanlan barracks nt Kalatat.
seroa the river. This may mean that
the Ilulgars aro planning nn Invasion
of ltumanla by crossing tho Danube
In that region or that they seized the
Uland to prevcrjt the itumanlans using
It to innko a crossing of the river.
Island la Important,
The Island of Mulukalafat Is in almost
the extreme northwestern corner of IJul
zaria, where the Danube makes a loop.
From Kalafat runs u main railroad
through ltumanla, which an army hoping
to invade ltumanla might use. It I only
ilfty miles south of Orsova, where Hu
nianlans und Austrlans are lighting, nnd
the selzlnjrof the Island may bo Intended
to divert llumanlan troops from Orsova.
The Uulgarlan statement also speaks
ef the crossing of tho Danulio by the
Itumanlans, which, it says, was mado
rear the vlllago of Itahavo. "Consider
able units of troops" tho statement says,
"were able to cross the pontoon bridge
before Austrian .monitors destroyed it
cn the Dobrudja side."
A German statement telling of tho
Transylvania fighting closes with the
statement "west of Parajd they gained
advantages," victories announced byltu
rr.unlan statements near Odorkln, be
tween Fogaras and Slghlsoara und webt
of the Rler Alt and nt Orsova. The
German statement follows:
In the Georgeny Valley (Transyl
vania) the Itumanlans made several
vain attacks. West of Parajd they
gained advantages. Wc are beforo
Fogaras.
West of Calnenl. at tho southern
Mt of Rothenthurm Pass, lighting
took place with Rumanian troops, the
litter having been dispersed during
th battle of Hermannstadt. Enemy
attacks in tho IlaUeg Mountain were
unsuccessful. West of Oboro Height
our allies gained ground.
Huruanlana In I'IIkM.
Herman and Uulgarlan troops of
t.ie army of Field Marshal von Mack
(men delivered an encircling attack,
vth tho result that the Rumanian
forces which crossed tho Danube near
lijahovo, south of llucharost, with
drew In hasty flight.
According to tho German newspapers
G(ii. von Falkenhayn has Issued tohls
roops who won the battle at Hermamt-t-'adt
un order In which he congratu
lates them on having "as good as an
nihilated u numerically superior army,
the remnants of which nro still career
ing about the mountains and will not
i sen pc their deserved fato.'' The irdor
enii with the words: "May It so happen
It nil our enemle,"
Gen. von Falkenhayn Is planning to
bivinle ltumanla from the Rothenthurm
Pas., following up his victory at Her-
in.inriitadt. At teveral places In the
Transylvania Alps east of tho pus Oer
uaiii und Austrian troops have reached
tie rim that separates Transylvunla
ni ltumanla, und are threatening to
div.ide Rumania from tho northwest.
fl Is Ii announced In tho following para-
mph of un Austrian olllclal statement:
South of Honuannstailt n Rumanian
h.ittallon which was still wanderlnz
n.jut has been annihilated. Kait of
the Rothenthurm defile the frontier
Cntit on TMri Fate,
BRITISH STAFF CHIEF SA YS
ARMY'S URGENT NEED IS MEN
Campaign to Force Conscription on Ireland Gains
Strength by Declaration of Sir William
Robertson.
Lo.vtms-, Oct. 4. The utgtnt need of
Oreut llrltuln to secure more men for
bt-r army, navy and munition work
which is, taken to mean among other
things that conscription will lie extended
to Ireland, was voiced to-day In ofTtchil
iiunrters.
(ten. Sir William Robertson, chief of
the Imperial Staff, said In a. speech to
day at Daldurhy, Lincolnshire, that while
the Allies wcro winning the war elowiy
but surely he wished tu Impress upon his
hearers the necessity of obtaining more
men for the urmy and munitions fac
tories. In this connection, ho said, he
had n serious word of warning to give.
"We are not Justified In expecting to
win the war," he said, "unless the scr
vlces of every man ntid woman In the
country nro utilized to the ullcst ex
tent." "Wo tmr-t- be under no delusion." he
continued. "as to tho end or probable
duration of this gie.it struggle. Wo must
be prcpured to continue for n time which
cutmot at picxcnt be estimated.
"Mnat
Prepare for Wnnl.''
"In fact.
we must prepare for the
worst while wo hope for the best. We
have ndoptcd In theory tho principle of
national service. Wo must see that we
put It Into practice, because wo want
more men, und we want them now, and
eventually wc shall want all who can be
spared."
Great Britain Is In urgent need of men
for her armies, und also ror her muni
tions factories, according to a statement
given out to-day by tho Man Tower
Distribution Hoard, recently appointed to
comb out men eligible for military ser
vice in the United Kingdom who have
not yet been enrolled In the urmy.
Tho board reported It had examined
ofllclalH of the Admiralty, War Otllce,
Ministry of Munitions and other depart
ments, and that there was urgent need
of fresh supplies of men for the armies
and munition factories. In order "to
maintain our forces In the field at the
numbers already fixed for them, and at
the same llmto maintain tho supply of
munitions essential for their equipment
ami proper utilization."
The board directed that nn exemption
bo granted to certain Masses heretofore
exempt, and that there be a mora gen
eral dilution of skilled labor In muni
tions factories with women and' other
workers heretofore untrained.
It suggested conferences of employers
and employees with a view to freeing
skilled labor now engaged In private
work for employment In munitions
plants.
"It In essential," the report says, "that
NEW GREEK CABINET
WILL BE VENIZEL1ST
KhijLr Sends for Adherents of I
Pro-Ally Premier to Form
Ministry.
..I. , . , ! I
IllllbS. Vlll 1.III1IIUII. WVI, 1 . IVKIK I
rn.t....n... .....I.I.. . .1..
council held ut the palace this morning i
to consider written opinions of tho hit-;
uatlou submitted by each Mlnltcr, to 1
which the .Minister's resignation was ap-1
nended. to be uceente.1 in case the oiiln. I
Ions wcro unsatisfactory to tho inon-,
arch, i
The Minister of tho Interior. Iiucas :
Roufus: th'c Minister of Commuulca- I Production In Germany ut this time of, Jo a torrent uf questions Jeers and nb
tlomi, Lysandre KsftandJoglow. and tho1""-' Indlun refa play and Its favorable) Jectlons that left her shaking with unger
Minister of Justice. M. Vukotopoulo. op-
posed the entry of Greece into tho war.
w
Tho King accepted tho resignation of
Ihe. enllrn .MlnUtrv fnr Ihe mn iio.e of
i ......i..-. .. .i.i.t.
will ineludn three adherents of cx-Prc-
mler Venlzelos.
DcmetrlOH Uluinan'.idls, Minister of
Communication. In the VenUelos
Cabinet, was called to tho Palace to
adviso the King respecting tho Yenizellsts
to be chosen. Tho former President of
tho Chamber, t onstantlne Zavlts.inos,
und the former Minister of the Interior.
M. Kufandarls, aro under consldvrutloii
In addition to M. Dlamuutldls.
The following oftlciul statement te-
gardlng the Cabinet situation was issued
to-dnv :
The uovcrnmeni, not Having sup-
paving
eeede.1 In getting Into tjjufh with I he
rcnrescntatlves of the Lirtente Powers.
..,.iil.lerliitr thut Ihe s Illation hinders
progress In national questions, h:u)
begged tho King to accept Its resigna
tion. The King has accepted the resigna
tion of the Government."
WANTSNO OFFICE.
Yenisei" Tells Klnu'a Friend His
Position fu Cabinet.
LonpGn, Oct. C (Thursday). "Former
Premier Yenlztlos," says tho Dally
Mall's Canca, Crete, correspondent, "has
been sounded from Athens by a person
vlose to King Constantino ns to whether
In the cvqnt of war being declared on
llulgarla M. Vcnlzclos would demand tho
Premiership In a Cabinet of his own
choosing or be content to support a
coalition Cabinet In which his party is
represented or whether ho would support
a Cabinet which, though not containing
members of his party, would declare
war and act generally along the lines ot
his policy. ,
'M. vcnlzelus answered that no was
ready to support uny Cabinet which
would put Greece s forces In the Held
beside those of tho F.ntento Powers. The
former Premier said ho wanted no Cabi
net post for himself or for his followers."
FORD SUMMONS PEACE ENVOY.
Culls
I,. P. l.ochner From
The
llnuue for Conference.
Tim lUrit'it, via Imdon, Oct,
(Thursday). Louiii 1'. l.ochner, general
necietnry of tho Neutral Conference for
Continuous Mediation, In icsponsu to u
cable despatch from Henry Ford, sum
moning him to ii conference, rushed to
Rotterdam In an automobile early this
morning nnd caught tho senm8h'4 Ryn
ilaiii, which sailed nt tl:u3 o'clock for
New York.
It Is understood his conference with
Mr. Ford will concern now developments
In the Ford peace campuhm.
Wilson I'leUs Klicht Hour Hoard.
Aixianci:, Ohio, Oct. 4. It wus an
nounced, fallowing President Wilson's
passing through here to-day, that ho
has selected three members oMhp board
tu Investigate the railway eight hour
law. Announcement of their names will
lie made us soon ns they havo consented
to serve.
BUT BUB mtKB wins.
M. th iuf f au laat fin.
a large part of tho labor now engaged
In private work hall bo diverted to
Government orders or relcused for the
army."
Tho board ulso has tinder considera
tion tho extended uso of women nnd of
men over tho military nge, and nlso the
release of men of military nge now em
ployed In riovcrnment olilces. This Is the
only means, tho board says, whereby ex
tension of the age for compulsory Ser
vice can be avoided.
No olllclal tlgurcs have been given re
cently as to tho number of men serving
with the llrlllsh army. King Oeorgc. In
signing the military servlco bill on May
25, placed the lumber raised up to that
tlmo ut D, 041,000. In July, August nnd
September tho Urltlsh casualties were
307,169.
Conscription for Ireland.
When Parliament reassemble next
week the Government will be confronted
with new embarrassing proposals for the
application of conscription to Ireland.
The Time nnd other newspapers hava
been conducting a strong campaign with
this object In view, and tho decisions an
nounced to-day by tho man power ill
trlbutlon board nnd by Rtr William
Robertson will. It Is believed, strengthen
the hands of tho agitators.
Sir IMwnrd Canon asserts that the
situation Is such that without conscrip
tion In Ireland It wilt be Impossible to
maintain the Irish regiments at the front'
at their proper strength. Ho contends
that Ireland could provide another half
million men of military nge, nnd asks
what the colonics, which have made
such sacrifices for tho mplre. will think
of tho shirking of Ireland.
(isTrrnmtnt May Have to Yield.
While most of the icsponlble
politicians are agreed that It would be
Inexpedient to attempt to apply com
pulsion to Ireland while home rule Is
withheld, undoubtedly In the prevent
phnso of thr Luro-peaii war those who
are demanding conscription hold u strong
hand and tho (!oernnicnt may find It
dlfllcult to resist tho demand.
Tho Nationalists. In reply to Sir
IMwnrd Carson, point out that the
colonies ulrcjily halo self-government
and henco there Is no nn.tlogy with the
position of Ireland. They oseert that
Ireland will be found to be a united
nation In resistance to compulsion.
Tho Liberal newspapers consider the
agitation another attempt to unseat
Premier Asqulth, and contend that while
compulsion In Ireland would provide a
few men It would provoko another th-st
class Irish crlsl-i and throw Ireland into
tho hands of tho Sinn Kclners.
INDIAN POET'S PLAY
HAILED IN GERMANY
lleeeption to Tngorc's 'Chitra'
in Mini Mi Thought to
Savor of Politics.
ltd., IV flit J .4 nn... "1 Mill .n
............ -k -,, nvn I'.ujl .
In- Sir ItnlitmlrMlinli Tiitnrn. th.i ItrltUli 1
Indian poet who was !i warded tlje Nobel I
'rlxe for Uterinum In 1913, vv.ia pro-
""ecu at mo .Municn 'jneairo lor ine
"rst time, sajs tho OversesH News
Agency, nnd waH well received by the
literary critics. .
A jioiiticol nmtlve may -be liehind the
rciepiioii. iiy inis compuineiii ine tier-1
, "'" ni.iv hojic to further the discontent , i ne crown oi men in ou. ran hm'k
t . i ..i.... i. .-ii.'liIa.tiaH rn I el rinlitf until f I I. nt Lie
iiiiirsieii ny ceriain lucuons in jnuia
Ugalllfct Great Hrlt.1 tl'H rule.
i Tni.ni.. iii,nuif. ,i.. ...i. it.ituii
knight, is not reconciled to Urltlsh ovei-l
lordship, aa the following quotation fromj
ms writings simws:
Ono tectlon of the human race can
not be permanently strong by depriv
ing another section of ll Inherent
rights. Tho Urltlsh are getting ttroug
by possession ot tl.o Indian emplie.
T.ie weakness of disarmed; famine
stricken and poverty ridden India will
ho the cause of the destruction of tho
Urltlsh Kmplrc.
Tagorc's book "Chitra" was llrst nub-
llshod In nuglleh some jears ugo und litis
h,. ,.,..,,.,.,,.,,..-,...,,. .,,
, m co, h , , ,
I o.,.,,...i.. .,.
' '
FAMINE NEAR IN BELGIUM.
German Requisitions Have Taken
All Meat. Ilutter and Potatoes.
Special Cable lrtpalc to Tnr. Sex.
IINPON-, Oct. t, Famine is ut the
doors of Ilclgiuin because of the requlil
tlons of the Germans mi the conquered
population, according to the Times cor
respondent at LniiFunnc.
Meat Is practically unobtainable, he
lays, and butter very scarce. Potatoes
have not been been for somo time, and
prices are becoming Impossible. Coffee
Is 11.80 u pound, chocolate. K'.tO; cocoa,
i3, and sugar, 72 cents, l'he almost to
tal disappearance of tea fish und the
excessive cost of meat have mado mus
bels a popular food. .
The object of the Germans Irr'starvlng
the Delglans is without doubt tu induce
them to demand peace, the correspondent
says.
HEALTH LIBRARY FOR CITY.
it
Will He Opened In (be Depart
inent llolldliitf.
Tho Municipal Referenco Library has
Just completed plans for establishing u
public health division on tho fifth floor
of the Health Department Ilultdlug, 1U9
Centre street.
It will specialize on child hygiene,
drugs, food unalvsls, food inspection,
food regulations, food supply, hospitals.
health Insurance, milk supply, occupa
tlonal hygiene, school Inspection, con.
taglous diseases and vital statistics. It
will be the only library In the city spe
cializing In publhj health muttcru which
Is open to the public. Sarah N. Ilalll
day, librarian of the Lederle labora
torlcs, will bo In Immediate charge.
Cruiser Memphis to He Abandoned.
Wasiiinotov, Oct. 1. The armored
rrulser Memphis, recently wrovked In
Santo Domingo harbor, will bo aban
doned us a total loss by Ihe Navy De
partment. As much us possible of the
material will be salvaged and brought
north on tlio U, S. s. Hancock. Naval
Constructor Uu Hols and a representa
tive of tho Merrltt-Chapman Wrecking
Company who InvestlBtted the condition
of the ship, reported that her whole bot
tom haa bean crushed and her t art net.
1 11X14 etrt of potttlon,
PETTICOAT SPECIAL
GETS MORE BUMPS
Stiffs unci Antis Clnsli mid
Xenrly Spoil Detroit
Reception.
TOLEK) IS ALSO T1IOHNT
Miss Keller Hooted nntl Is Un
able to Make Her
Speech.
Dkthoit, Oct. 4. The advaneo UKetit
of tho women's- campaign train for
Hughes wljo came to Detroit to ar
range for the reception fell between the
Hughes women who arc antt-suffrago
nnd the suffrage women who nro for
Wilson. As a Tcsult n committee of men
only met the train when It pulled Into
the Detroit station nt 5:30 I. M.
Suffrago women, headed by Mrs. Fred
erick Holt, refused to servo on the
commltteo of welcome on tho ground
that they wero for Wilson. The women
who consented to serve declined to go
to tho train because they feared they
would hocomo Involved In a suffrage
demonstration.
So tho women's committee, headed by
Charles B. Wnrren, contented them
selves with waiting for Dr. Katharine H.
Davis, Miss Mauds Miner and tho rest
of the spellbinders at the Board of Com
merce, where un evening meeting was
held.
The men's committee which met the
train and conducted the women through
the streets unostentatiously, with no
parade, was as follows:
Huh D. Tope, Chief of Police James
Couzcns, Kdwurd (Jray, Kdward I.ewls,
I). M. Kerry, Jr., ltalph Booth, James
Myers, Arthur Met .raw. l"inny W.
Clark, John Lodge, Julius llous and
John D. M.ickay,
Thorny Path In Toledo.
With the local Republican organiza
tion much In doubt as tu whether the
women s-icllblndirs would help tho can
didacy of Charles K. Hugh or hurt it,
with labor frankly antagonistic to what
the Toledo .Yitcs irr calls tho 'billion
dollar train" and with the committee of
welcome mado up of the wealthy women
of the town, tho speaking start (if the
women's campaign support for Hughes
trod a thorny path In Toledo, where they
worked from curly morning tilt Lite (
"'wmri-lyse, Grant Ocnmnn. chair- crc "n,5,ta ne of ,he mld
man of the G. O. I county com.iiltt.e. I c-,r" of northbound Bronx Park
wan opening tho meeting for the visitors! express train on tho Third avenuo elc
it the Vulentlne Tlieatri ut 10 :30 A. M. I vated r.illwnv ni iY,rtv...n.,.i
bis henchmen at beadiuartcrs admitted
franlilv that thev united with soma
unxlctv to seo what effect tho llrst no-
lltlval pettlcoutcd special would have on
Ohio voters.
Ohio, they pointed out. was nntl-suf-'
iraK?, ii. in m, i ne i.-suti ui,w ii nun
overwhelming odd. The Hughcf women's
train Is Iool(ed-in all along tho line as .1
suffrage trnln. In spite of Miss Frames
A.jKellor's declaratloiiH that It I not, and
pnlltlcl.iiiH tlguro that tlio electorate will
not be Impressed by arguments advanced
;...,, - .,.
',,v """-"
u k,
Mis Krllor'i. i:irrlenee.
Miss Kellor caught the brunt of the l i-,
bor oppoltlon. At thr Overland auto-I
mobile works. Just outside tho town,
where sho spoke during the noon hour
on tho very spot whcie Mr. Hughes was
heckled u week ago, she ;w subjected
..t.........".
, e. .t ..... ..- .-.
ineil in ncinii iier spcecii.
I "Men. sho started
"I know yoti want
to hear about Hughes s labor recor
corH, and '
ft fight on the mat.
When he
vvns Governor of New York "
i .. . , ' .'. ' ..I , V.
. .'i.i.iii,
fellow tiesldn her.
"Roosevelt.1
Miss Kellor made
fresh start.
Roosevelt Is rotten ! shrilled u work
man In a black skull cap
s in
r.r
The rich put tho Itepuhllcan
power chorused several othcis. "Wh
Itepuhllcan President ever was for
labor?"
In vain MI'S Kellor tried to speak of
this or that Just measure Hughes had
supported. The volume of Jeering voices
bore her down.
Hughes Ik helping Socialism every
day! ' cried one.
'Some of my best friend nro Social
ists." Miss Kellor ejaculated.
Why aren't joij with them?" Inquired
her tormentors.
Supporters of Wilson.
This crowd wus for Wilson nnd most
impolite about It. Another rrnvvd which
was uddrrssed u little lutcr by Miss
Annie Peck, tho mountain climber, und
Dr. Katharine Hemeiit Davis, lit front
of tho Toledo post office, wus moro po
lltn, but equally prejudiced in favor of
tho iircscnt occupant ot tno into
Continual on Nccoml I'aac
Net Paid Circulation a Day
192,210
On July 3, 1916, the Sun and The
New York Press were amalgamated.
For the quarterly period from that
date to Sept. 30, 19 1 6, the weekday
circulation of The Sun has averaged
192.210 Net Paid
Copies a Day.
The very f inent circulation in New
York and among the very largett
(Member of the Audit Bureau of Circulation)
J -- -WV- J ;" v -" ,a-Vf 1 u . Eii-lJsW
I- .-.-A-. .un.-x..... - -II bMiIII II I
GIRL OF 6 RESCUED
FROM A CITY SEWER
Fulls Down a Manhole and H
Takes Two Men to
Save Her.
A heavy truck carrying dirt from the
.Seventh nvcnuo subway excavation broke
a manhole cover In Forty-seventh street,
between Tenth and Klcventh avenues,
last night TV.o pollco put u. barrel over
the manhole, but boys carried It away
und made a boullrc of It.
Klkn Hassett, C years old, wna play
ing In front of her mother's home, 628
West l'orty-scventh street, with a crowd
of other children when she suddenly
disappeared, falling through tho unpro
tected opening In the pavement.. Frank
Kidpo of 519 West Forty-fourth street
caw her fall nnd without hesitation
went to tho rescue.
Ho descended by an Iron ladder
built Into tho mlcks and found him
;-clf In u nix foot sower In which he
could see nothing. Ho called, and the
chlhl cried out In nnswer. Ho dropped
from the last rung of tho ladder and,
groping In tho direction of tho child's
voice, found her, supported by her dres
on tho rapidly (lowing tide.
Knipo made his way back to the
inan'iole, but could not reach the ladder,
hundlc.-inpcd us ho was by tho weight of
tho child.
Mrnnwhllo a crowd had gathered In
tlii street above, und John McGovcrn of
5JC Wtst Forty-seventh street, a power
fully built young fellow, heard Knlpe's
shouts. Ho went down tho ladder ahd
by sheer strength pulled Knlpe and the
girl high enough so Knlpe could get a
grip on the lowest rung, McGovcrn took
the child and climbed to the surface,
Knlpo following.
The police, who waMted his namo to
givo him credit for his bravery and for
his quickness, which ulono saved the
child from being swept along toward the
river to be drowned, had considerable
troublo Undine tho youna man. who hur
ried aw.iy unnoticed as soon as he
emerged Irom the sewer.
The child is none the worse except for
a cut on htr forehead.
I TWO HURT IN PANIC
ON "L" AT 42D ST.
PaM'iiirers Jump Out of Win
dows at Sijrht of Smoke on
Third Avenue Line.
vcnlll. , Tlm ,.,,,.. .,,
Tho sudden stopping of
,ho ""',l' and smoke curling up around
tho car caujeil Uu persons tu rush for
the .loofs. Social ju-r.pcd out of win.
diws, and one, x girl named Mary liU
i:, ears old, of Arthur
tliur avenue
he llronx. tosid on to tho station
i.liir..Mii uii . .....i .. .. .. . . i i
fh . . . . r,l-,rt.V In-
hrn les l.nt ., . " I'll' r "',!"
r "... f'..f r n"-'dlcjl
;,"',.. ,, ... .... .
.h , . th" Mbl ,,,f
the rush hour, and the seven ear Ira n
. . ..,1, , . ... .
AVUM JllSt pUlllll Into the Station. When
omebdy Jerked tho ( mrrveucy oird
which .luloniatieally .iiIIim the brakes,
The train stopped with a Jolt ninl smoke
began to aiipo.ir In ono of the middle
eirs. In vvhltli the iotleo rjtlui.itrd that
lietneen l iii and "V'l perou were
In'krd, standing In the ulslo und crowd
ing the platforms
Women screamed and men ruthed for
the doors. Tlnw who wero In thu way
were pushed aside, through windows as
well as the doors. Ah thu crowd poured
out Patrolman 1 tell I y. who wusstntlon.il
on the platform and ran up at the sight
of tho smoke, was carried by the crowd
back aaalnst tho railing Patrolman
, c.M hurried from the northbound local
piatfonn. wnuii ai tn.it Milium is unucr-
neatn tl presb pi.morm, aim ine iwo
policemen had ii busy live, minutes as- , Ilttnhiej su r,er ,, fW
Hiring the passenger that nothing hadi,.,,.. ,...,... ,... , I
I happened except the pulling of tho en.cr-
' gency .s.rd.
I .annuel Ko ozltz. ot j.ju i.ast iiuiii
street, was the man repotted hurt. 11..
was knot ked down and cm a tu suf-
fercd H Isisslbh. fiuetuio of the left leg.
Mis- Irl.i sufTeteil from shock und
bruises of the left elbow.
CZAR 0. K.'S SISTER'S DIVORCE.
l onnrms Mnrrlnur HUsolntlon of
(irnnil Uiirtirs lllga.
Lonisin, Oi t. t.- -Ihuperor Nicholas,
itccoidlng to ii llcutcr despatch from
Petrogiad l.i-dny, has confirmed tho dls
Kilutlon, pronounced by the Holy Snyod,
of the marrhige of his sister, the Grand
Duchess Olga, In I Hike Peter of Olden
burg. Tho Grand Duchess retnlns her
imperial tltto und Is permitted to re
marry. Grand Duchess OUta was born on June
1, 1SS2, Her marriage to Peter Alcx.iti
drovich, Duko of Oldenburg, occuried
on duly 27. 1901.
gomt.
I
1
CAR STRIKERS NOW
TALK CONCESSIONS
Samuel Oompcrs to Work for
Settlement With Traction
Companies.
".MOTHER" JONES BUSY
Action of Building Trades
Puts Quietus on General
Walkout Plan.
Samuel Gompers Defore he returns to
Washington ut the end of this week will
devoto himself to bringing about peace
between the traction companies and the
striking carmen. Testcrday in Amal
gamated circles tho air was full of set
tlement talk. As an undercurrent to the
many rumors that un adjustment Is
probablo there wero hints thut unless
tho overtures by Gompers are accepted
this week next week will tee a more
severe campaign on the part of the car
men. The i strike leaders now are ready to
make"nany concessions to the traction
heads, but They will not forfeit tho foot
hold they have gained among car work
ers. They nro ready to talk terms, will
Ing to yield on formal recognition of
their unlonvbut they want to maintain
tho right to strengthen their organiza
tion. It Is salif they have found responsive
ness among the tract on heads. Sevnr:i1
of the men-1n the amalgamated say thi.t
iiireauy imam ii. ntrgeruld. strike
leader, nnd Frederick W. Whltrldge.
president of tho Third Avenue line, have
been In conference. Neither Fitzgerald
nor uiuirltUe would glo any confirma
tion of this last night.
Looking to Whltrldne.
General peace, It Is understood by the
strlkets, lien through gaining the tlrst
udMintuge from Whltrldgc. Tho lines
over which lie cxerel-.es control have
suffered most durimt the strike. With
the exception of the short period during
which the agreement underwritten by
Mayor Mltehel and Oscar Stran-, Public
Service chairman, wns effective, there
, , 7', '.. . , of New York, a guet, wnoso room no -
has been a partial tleup of his sstciniw ransacking when she awoke. Tholv'" 0,10 exception Haired to advunro
I III1 A IliA till rill In x-w t Itilte fj.ti i A.iliAnll i ... ... .
.: - ..I,.
r!"..'.5'I,.Cn.'" ,mS P" ,10nm,"!' f"r J "'!
fhlrd Avenue company Because tho
Amalgamated has neen assured of funds
sufficient to contlnuo the strlko for at
least two months longer leaders believe
that Whltrldgn will seek-to avoid bear
ing tho expenslvo burden for that period.
On the other hand. Whltrldgo ever
since the violation of tha peace ngree
;j n;;!lxoT'st"nd,,a"r'!ntn Hie
eral times since .the new strike that so
Ionic us he maintain the direction of the
Third Avenue MVUfftn tin mrniliem nf fhr
' , . . .
I .. .. 1, 11 .win ne einpiovcu.
1 itsieniay ne issued nn opu nn o
, Mat-ment n which 1... said he satis-
' "' "Ituiitlon. The high t.lnt
In ope-ation of his Manhattan and limn
Un. a was reached esterday when 3v.1 of
M'" '"'"-d Avenue cars were operate,!,
.ru .... - i ... .Z....
' IIUOUN'I .uiu eiiiiuu) mem in sinae
, breakers In We-teh-sler .Older emonuer.
nunt of the recent amendment of tho
tlftien day ordinance effotts will be made
to resume full schedule In Mount Ver
non, New Rochello and other towns ot
the county An error In having the
wrong ordinance published make It pec
esary to give two days of publication,
beginning to-day, to the proper ordi
nance. Therefore the ar operation by
strike breakers will not Ik gill In West
chester until Saturday.
Ser Ice lniprnvrd.
It them Is any lessening of confidence
of ultimate nnd complete victory for
the traction operators It w.i not noticed
In the unices of the tnterbornugh nnd
N(.w vrV. ,lallWilv jest.id.o
The scr-
, , ,h erccl, ...ir ii.,,..
now has
, attw.m,tf j,
,.or .., tUtt tlll, nnea the start of
, rMho nght M,rvlt ..,
, yll(.rn, ,,,,, R,,t. The .omp.iuy ,
,,1( ,rulll,ie. Of the 11.1
cars of the system 121 were In operation
at tho rtifh hour yesterday. Many of
tlm old tiiPil have returned to work.
Secesslfius, from the Amalgamated
have become moro marked since th" i
tjlluro of the "sympathetic ftrlkc, ' Tins
' failure was emphasized yesterday when I
the Iiuuuing iiatics voieu unwn me
strike proposition, As they have held
the balance of power In the lalsir move- 1
ment. this action puts the ttiint qulitus ,
on tho general walkout plan. i
'.Miuner jones, ine ugcti ngimior
from the West, yesterday addressed sev- I
eral meetings of car strikers. Sho re- ,
fe.rred to tho traction heads us "high 1
class burglars'' tind advised thu men to
stand tlnn. She will head tho women's
und children's demonstration that Is to
take tho form of a parade next Tues
day afternoon.
Indications nro growing that unless
there U somei udviuice mado toward h
settlement utaiiy of tho strikers will
abandon the "no violence" policy advo
cated by their leaders. Several minor
disturbances wero put down by the po
lice yesterday. Tim most serlou trouble
occurred at 0:15 p. M. at l.l.ith street
nnd Willis avenue, when a mult, said to
Include many strikers, seized u car nt
that point. Fifty passengers wcro In It
nt tho time. The policeman on the plat,
form lircd several shots In tho air. but
beforo tho arrival of rrerv tlio strik
ers nnd lymputhlzcrs had driven oft the
car crew-.
Ai.ii.vnt, Oct. 4. The strike which
tied up trolley service In Albany and
jteusselaer counties ttlnco Monday,
stopping every cur In Trny, Green Island,
Chines uiit WaterWI it was "tiled
.,. I ri 1.
110011 to-tlai. Ie.iuers or the Alll.llg.l-
mated and orncluls of thu United Trac
tion Company decided to arbitrate their
difference.
GOVERNOR CHEERS CONVICTS.
Missouri Rsrentive Giles Them
Clsnrs and Directs Their Work.
Jr.mcnsoN Citt. Mo., Oct. I. Gov.
Mujor of Missouri to-day directed tho
work of 200 prisoners from the Stulo
penitentiary on a tea mile stretch ot
road near here. The Govtrnor gave
every convict worker three cigars and
supplied them with watermelons.
For each day the convicts work on the
roads they will be allowed twenty days
oft their sentences provided their road
work Ii satisfactory.
ABB TM BUM DOWNT
OtMa rvft WIMia pity ml win nulla
i.eeai mmr mm or ill rnltea
in aw, x. raa mi Cart.
SLAUS MAY BE VSED
IN SCHOOLS AGAIN
Paper Shortage So Serious
Many Pupils Already Bring
Own Supply.
If the shortage In paper continues
much longer New York school children
will bo forced to use slates and slato
pencils, formerly Indispensable In the
lower grades.
It was learned yesterday that the
Board of Kunerlntendents at a recent
meeting considered the problem of the ,
paper supply und agreed tnat tr tne sit
uation became much worso It would bo
necessary to return to old fashioned
writing materials, Thero was somo talk
that the move nilcht have to bo made III
the present school year, but members of
tho board were Informed that contracts
mado last fall should protect tho supply
this year.
Pupils ulready have reported a short
age of paper since thy schools opened.
In numerous Instances. It Ih said, chil
dren have, been forced to bring paper to
school. At tho Hoard of IMucatlon ofllces
It was asserted yesterday that If this
situation existed It was without authori
zation. Slate have been discarded en
tirely from the public schoolf.
$10,000 LOOT FROM
OYSTER BAYXOLONY
Douhlctlay, Erskino and Ah
hott Homes Bobbed and
Burglars Escape.
OrsTUn Bat. L. I., Oct. 4. The coun
try 11111110 colony of Oyster Itiy was in
vaded by burglar early to-day nnd
inonev and levvels valued at ! l'l.OOO were
taken from the home nf three of tho j
wealthiest residents. Tim Homes muieu
wcro those of Nelson Douhleday. son of
F. N, Donblcdiiy. the publisher; II. P.
Krsklne. Now York architect, and I'hll
1Im Abbott, all on the West Shore road.
The Poubledays mffcred the largest
loss, money and Jewel to tho value of
about $7,000 being taken then'. At tho
Krsklne home several pieces of Jewelry
and between $.1' nnd too was stolen.
Tho Intruder was scared from tho Abbott
home hy the screams of Mrs. Arthur It'll,
ony i0t taken from tlie APOoti nome
wni a small sum of money belonging to
Mr. Abbott.
Tho authorities h.uo only
a mvagn-
description of one of the burglars, that,,. ,.. Iir , '
furnished hy Mrs. IteTi. Sho
awakened about 2 o'clock this morning
by hearlmc some ono moving. She
switched on tho light In u reading lamp
bcride tho bed nnd discovered n man
co lMiUr vlcM"K u" or.1r!,"rH wln ut f
irlef glimpse of his face, which shei"""' 1' """" 9 increase
tl. scribes as being smiKjih shaven und ! approximately oi ono cent u'riunrt.
vouthfu' I Commissioner I'illoti or tl State De-
ThH nt the second big robbery In tho' Pnrtment of Food. and .MaiJlN said nil
summer colonv vvilldn the lust month. ,l,(' distributers have to do Is to make a
llecmtlv tho 1 ie of I '. II. Thkrlot. .1' Public announcement thut they will pay
New York broker, was entered and "'e league price nnd the farmers wlir
money and J. vvelrv valuul .it '.tiou begin shipping milk an Individuals, wltli
tnkeii. As In the case of the Thlerlnt, ""' contraet., ns in tho da before tho
the three families robbed thl morning sttllse. lie declares, however, lhat "the
expressed absolute f..lih In the servants. ' IcagU" will alvvvos have tho milk nnd the
At the lii.ulitediiy und i:rklne homes' rU'ht to tlx the price fit which they will
I'olh families were ut home, but wero
not disturbed. Tin! d. tectlve's have In cn 1
Uli.-ililo to discov.r how rptrntue was t'lty iel !. .11111..
made, the lb. ory prevailing lhat skeleton' Picket lines in tlio ilairv fjim dls-
Kcys were used. trvl frc tightened and le.s milk came
nto t,c (,ty ihau on .-my day during tho
WORK FOR MORGAN; OWN CAR. ' celt. Th.ro was u shoitage of over
- . i 10 per cent, ot the suppls. Morden's
II ut
:fntc Laborer, Miee.ll.iK, Goes.
t .lull to mr Si'.T.. I
Amnio I.ofrcse, who said he Is u
laborer on the eMnto of J. p. Morgan, ut i
Dos.it Is, L. I., was chaiged jesirrday!
with dilvmg his antomonile at excessive t
.peed throusli Richmond lll'.l.
"I in nil .iiniloje.-. of Mr. Morgan own
automobile'."' Inquired .Magistrate Con
wav, In the .l.imalca pollco court.
"(h, yes. every man has Ills, own car."
said the laboier.
Those In the louitionm listened with
Interest and some emumeuced to llguio
the railroad fare to till u Cove Hut then
they heard l.nfic-en lined ;'3, with the
nlternatlvu of I wo days in Jail, und
their dream wcro shattered, foi
'I'll lake thu two d.is In Jail,'
eald
Lofrcsso.
SUFFOLK GRAND JURY STRIKES
Hulks nt .Mulil Work. When Kstrn
l'n Is Cut (I IT.
Rivitnitr vti. I.. I. t -Incensed at,
a law hroUKht to the attention of the
Suflolk count) autnnritles by State ofll
clals, the (iitoi.e tir .tint Jurors struck,
last nigh'. nfii. K to do uny work at
u night sesslio
llentnf, re M. cunlv his paid Its
Grand Junns !j -, witli tl ,,u added
for night 11. nil The Male decided lll.1t
such p.iymem was 1,;. g,.l, and s.ial p,i.
"Then wo w -i.'t ivfnk nights," said
the Jurors.
Court otll.cr- we-e aim disgruntled
when they learned they are to ns'eivo
onlv 3 n d.iv lor court work heieafter.
and Hum Mutt, one of thu ulllccrs, re.
m.uked that a ho could makn moro
than 13 u ! catiiimg dogs ut home
ho "guessed liu would mosey along."
Y0NKERS WAREHOUSE BURNS.
17 Horses Perish und Iseveii .llotor
Trucks Uestrojeil In I'lre,
P.ipsengcrs Hi tho jimln station of the'
New York Central ut Vnnke-s late laft1
night saw ll.tmes burst through thu mof , Hons submitted by the kur men After
of tlm largo two storv brick warehoiHo setting forth tho prices for milk lest
of John .1. Wilder & Son, ucross the , Ing 3 per cent, butter fa' demanded for
'N""' li-v ,Im' tUw U, ,,r" 'iH'.il tliKnt
'"" 1,1 I'-xi!"- "' '" tho
. . . ,,,,.,.,,,
flame were ho nnd control.
Seventeen horses wero burned to
death and seven automobile trucks wcro
destroyed, with a large quantity of hay,
f.eil und grain, In which the Wittier Him
deals Three horses wero saved.
Firemen from llaslliig aided the Von
Iters department and tin. lire was con
lined to the one building, The loss Is
est im a led at 1125.000.
NEW WORLD WHEAT RECORD.
Yield of 53 llnshrls to Acre Re
ported In Alberta.
KoMOSToN. Alberta, Oct. t. C. S. No.
ble of Nobleford, Alberta, has a thou
sand ncro Hold the wheat crop of which,
threshed, gave a yield of nfty-two
bushels to tho acre, the hlghert ever
known In any part of the world, accord
ing to est'matcs made to-day,
Tha world's record for wheat was for-
roeiV held by Whitman couaty, Waah
lafttB, fni Htr
MILK DEALERS
RAISE OFFERS
TO DAIRYMEN
Borden's Price Within Ten
Cents a Can of Demand.
FARMERS REFUSE TO
ACCEPT COMPROMISE
.Mayor's Efforts Fail State
Probe Begins
To-day.
CITY SUPPLY GR0TO3
SMALLER EACH DAY,
Companies Get n Third of
Their Xeeds Many Fam
ilies Suffering.
Developments In New York'u critical
milk situation yesterday wcrti ua fol
lows: Maor Mltchel's efforts to brln
about un adjustment of tho troubles
between tho distributers: and producer
so that tho children ami grownup) of
tlio city fchall bo assured their normal
dally supply resulted in u failure.
There was a deadlock over tho question
of thu prlco thut tho farmer shall get
for his milk.
Tho farmers, however, nude, pains In
their tug of war.
All tlm big dealer..
prices to tho producer for October milk
31 cents per I no pounds over tho rates
of October. 111.1- Morden's directed
their un.s'intn
." . .u
moro ,llan l" H'1" I"'"", or I" cents
. nioro than their olfcf of .September 15.
Representatives of tho Dairymen's
League declared that tho league mem-
gut but ."1 In i.t per "-cm. of Its milk
esttni'iy, altli'iugh iiio other eoncrn
did better. The farmers urn l iking a.
special delight In getting aftc- Hor
den's and their expected HO per cent, of
n supply wa. curtailed because league
members dumped milk they expected to
get.
l'lstribulers promised an Increased sup
ply from new sources tn-d'iy, but Com-
mlMloncr Dillon and leaguo reprcsontn
tlves in this city deiiato the shortagij
will be greater than ever. Although tho
milk shining.! was felt everywhere deal
ers declare no milk famine Is In sight.
Attorncy-ficnti.il Woodbury cams to
town yesterday to familiarize lilmself
with the situation and to nren.ire fnr bin
lnvcMlg.itlou Into tni:l; cnndltlons, whleli
will start to-morrow murniug Ht tho At-lorney-iieneral's
oilUe, ilro.idw i.v.
The Investigation will be tllrei'ted
against both the Dairymen', lyufue
und the milk distributciw.
Prleen .lueke.l I p.
M.Ik prices were Ja.-kcd up by several
milk companies, u cent nn different
grades of milk, nnd now the prices of
various companies vary. Dealers admit
they aro suffering gicat lo?es In con
sequence of the refusal of farmers to
send milk Into the city.
Tho Maor spent practically nil hh
olllclal hours yesterday In conference,
which ho hoped would result In eomo
plan that would cle .r up the trouble.
Attorney-General Woodbury ar.il ht
deputy, Merton II. Lewis, tlrt saw blm
and then he had talks w'th tho dis
tributers and tlio producers District
, Attorney Sw.mii and Health
Commls-
sloner Kmerson wero present
At the clo.e ot tho conferences Mayor
i Mltehel said :
I "The conference reulted in a failure
to tiling tinin tosetner into any usreo-
ntenl. Tin situation has reached an
cmpHSfc. They are rte.idlockc.1 The
dealers lay lluy can not and will not
pay the price isked by tho dairymen.
The conference broke up Willi no pro,
pert of a settlement in i rhi "
The lliilrj men's Term.
Tho Maor made publ.e the ttlpuli-
, each of the next six mot ths tho ptoposl-
tlon continued:
..Th ...irrhaser nt tbe re-neetlve.
1 "The purchaser nt tie re-pectlvn
, tll-tilct or stations to l.iKe nil of the
mdk produced by tho members of thu
Dairymen's League that comply with tlio
lilies nnd legulai.on- tipjirovnl by thu
I nutborlUe of tin- tai- of New Turk
1 and the city supplied
' "Payment for tho m.lk to be madi
penu-monthlv, on the sr.ih of rsch
, mouth for the llrt b t f of tho current
, month and on th loth of the month
for the last half of the pri.vlous month.
I "A public el. iti ment by tlio rnllk
dealers and distributers addressed to the
Mayor or to tlm public, agreeing to up
cept or to utter on their own Initiative,
a schedule of prices corresponding with
the above will bo accepted aa forming
a satisfactory agreement."
The document was signed by Commis
sioner Dillon and R. D. Cooper, chair
man of the executive commltteo of th
Dairymen's League.
The proposition maita by Um AtatrUV
utera, as iimiM UUWM BJT IM :
eluded the pro-riM I
"U naOa I
I
