Established By Wm. Need, 1870.
VOLUME XLVI.
FREDERICK RAILROAD
Thurmont Hi vision
Schedule In Effect Sep'ember 24, 1916.
All trains Daily unless specified
Leave Frederick Arrive Thurmont.
7. '0 a. m 7.57 a. m.
9.4 > a m 10.27 p. m.
11.31) a. in 12.17 p m.
2.30 p. in 3 17 p. m.
4.00 p. rn 4.43 p. m.
4.30 p. m 5.17 p. m.
6.10 p. m 6.57 p. m.
8. '0 p. m. Sunday Only 8.47 p. m.
10.10 p. m 10.56 p. m.
Leave Thurmont. Arrive Frederick.
6 05 a. m 6.50 a. m,
8 15 a. m 9.00 a. ni.
10 45 a. m .' 11.30 a. m.
12.35 p. m 1.20 p m.
3.32 p, m 4.18 p. rn.
5.00 p. m 5 46 p. in.
540 p. m. Sunday Only 6.25 p. m.
6.29 p. m. Except Sunday 7.17 p m.
7.00 p. in 7.46 p. in.
9.00 p. m. Sunday Only 9.46 p. in.
11.00 p. m. Saturday only for Lewistown
Note-All trains arriving and leaving
Thurmont scheduled from Western Mary
land station.
Note—All trains arriving and leaving
Frederick scheduled from Square.
Western Maryland Ry.
Schedule In Effect September 24, 1916
GOING WEST.
4) -w c *a
D o a> § - §)
>s si .si “
4Jb l-SD e,C (- •
< s < 3 <5
a3 H S U
*4 05am 6.02 am 7.20 am t10.25am
*8.05 10.41 12.11pm
•10.40pm 12.32 ar1.35 4.00pm B.loam
t3.50 6.21 ar7.40
J6.35 8.56 10.09
GOING EAST.
_ "O C ■£ 4)
o c ■*-* c
a;hfl a> a> • a> o v o
> rt > !-> > u > g > c
cd *j rt-Q cc 5 s ~ ‘C.S
Jcj <l3
U 33 H 33
*6 55am 8.12 am 10.32 am
t7.15 *2.ospm 3.28pm 5.54pm
*B.lspm 1.30pm 3.50 4.51 6.46
*4.15 5 29 8.05
•Daily. tDaily except Sunday. tSunday
Only.
OVER 65 YEARS
EXP ERI E
Trade Marks
Designs
' rfTT’ Copyrights Ac.
Anvone sending n sketch nnd description mat
quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an
invention Is probably patentutilo. Communion
tionsstrlclly eonlblenllal. HANDBOOK on Patents
sent free. Oldest agency for patents.
Patents taken through Munti & Co. receive .
f jxcial notice , wit bout chnrgo, In the
Scientific American.
A handsomely Illustrated weekly. largest elr
culatlon of any muMinuo j al. Terms, f3 a
year; four months, |L. bold by all newsdealer*.
MIINN Qfl 36IBroadway, New York I
Branch Office. 025 F Bt* Washington, D. C.
s FIIE
MUTUAL INSURANCE CO. I
OF FREDERICK COUNTY.
Organized 1843.
Office—4o North Market Street
Frederick, Md.
A. C. McCardell, 0. 0 Warehime
President. Secretary.
surplus, $35,000.00.
No Premium Notes Required.
Save 25% and Insure with a Home
Company.
DIRECTORS
Josedh G. Miller, O. P. Bennett,
James Houck, R. S. J. Dutrow,
Milton G. Urner, Casper E. Cline,
A. C. McCardell, Charles B. Trail,
Dr. D. F. McKinney, Clayton O. Keedy,
George A. Dean, P. N. Hammaker.
Rates furnished on application to our
resident director, P. N. Hammaker,
|
MEYSKIDNEYPILLS
Fob Bacmacmc Kionct.and Blaoobb
NOTICE!
1 have moved my HARNESS
STORE to the Second Floor of
MASONIC BUILDING
where I will be prepared to fur
nish my patrons and the public
generally with all
HORSE EQUIPMENT.
Repairing neatly and promptly
done. Also
SHOE REPAIRING
in all branches. A full stock
of Rubber Heels on hand at all
times.
Respectfully,
JOS. C. GERNAND.
nov 26tf
The Catoctin clarion.
CONVINCING ARGUMENT FOR
A DRY COUNTY FROM THE TAXPAYERS STANDPOINT.
The Third Annual Report of the Auditors of Frederick County shows money
spent by the Commissioners of Frederick County out of the 1915 levy as follows:
Pensions, = * $3,598.50 Sheriff, = = = $ 9,108.61
Inqusitions, - = 366.00 Constables, = = 2,249.69
Coffins and Graves, = 188.00 Police Alagistrates, = 1,060.00
State Insane, - = 6,906.00 States Attorney, = 4,080.00
Jurors, = 6,445.00 Extra Attorney Fees, 1,130.00
Witnesses, = = 2,104.00 Montevue and Jail, = 28,000.00
Over $65,000.00 out of a total expense of $320,000.00 paid for the above items.
We believe that our tax rate is high; made so to care for the product
of the saloons and other places where strong drink is sold.
Mr. Taxpayer 20 cents out of every dollar of your taxes is used for above items.
PENSIONS. STATE INSANE.
We believe that the $3,500 levied as well as a fair proportion of the $6,900.00 to gel out of the County to State Institutions plus a good
money spent for the maintenance of dependents at Montevue is charge- sized sum to care for the feeble minded at Montevue.
able to the use of intoxicants, either directly or indirectly effecting these The statistics from different State Insane Asylums are nearly uniform
needy ones. in the statement that drink and its attendant vices cause from 70 to 80
Read the following report of the Charity Organization: er cen *’ 'nsan'ly
“ln fifteen years of work by the Charity Organization Society 777 JURORS AND WITNESSES.
j different persons have been given aid, the most of whom represent families ro cqq OO
of from two to twelve individuals each, only the name of one member ap- *P *
j pea ring upon the record. In a little more than 30 per cent, or to be very Don’t you think Mr. Taxpayer that our jury terms could be shorten
exact, in 239 cases, of these the destitution can be traced to alcoholism. . , , y . ,j l j i I *<il > >• ■ . 19
Some of this present drunkenness and some the result of drunkenness in cd and less witnesses would be summoned it booze was eliminated,
former years. In 109 families the cause is a drunken man, usually the hus- n mutret’
band and father. In II families both the father and mother drink and there HEAD 1 rIEbL:
are children who sutler. ‘'The Grand Jury of the September (1916) term of court having com
“ln addition to this there are a number of old, single persons, not pleted its labors begs leave to submit the billowing report:
counted above whose destitution has probably been caused by intemperate “We have been in session eleven days, during which time we nave
I habits in earlier life. examined 246 witnesses, found 60 presentments and indictments and dis
“Still further there are on the list 35 unmarried women with children missei number of non-support cases and d sertion on the
whose condition we think can be largely laid to alcoholism and yet who can part „f drunken and worthless husbands, and we might add here that a large
not be definitely included in the above calculation, and are not. per cellt 0 f t ( le cases brought before us were caused directly or indirectly
“Also a number of applicants who were refused, because drunken, by the use of intoxicating liquors.”
have not been counted.” (September Term, 1916, G. M. Smith, foreman.)
“We find a large number of non-support cases and desertions on the
part of husbands, 75 per cent, of these cases are caused by worthless men
COFFINS, GRAVES, INQUISITIONS. St,”' 1 ”***** th " & “ nly h “",' lr “ U
(Grand Jury February Term 1916, J. C. Lamar, foreman.)
We know a very large proportion of the above expense is directly . . ,im l ? perfeTit ( >f th cabroueht Lo tho af tont
1 I, . . j ■ 1 tl .• } 1 . , this body are either directly or indirectly the result ot the use ot intoxicants
chargeable to strong drink. Ihe time comes sooner of later when the and information from the Sheriff of the County reveals the fact that 98 per
saloonkeeper is through with the “bum” and he has the potters field as cent of the prisoners confined in the jail are there as the result of the same.”
his last resting place. (Grand Jury February Term 1915, E. C, Kemsburg, Foreman.)
Did You Notice How The Last Grand Jury Voted On The “Dry" Question?
“Before adjourning the jury took a vote on the ‘ dry" question. The vote was 21 for the elimination
of liquor and 2 against." —News Item.
MnvlT n V , ,p \ Mrk ,* ~ SHERIFF. CONSTABLES. STATE'S ATTORNEY AND
MONTEVUE AND JAIL. douce magistrates.
$28,000.00 of your hard earned money Mr. Taxpayer of Frederick $1,130 extra Attorney fees, the most of it lo assist your State Attor-
County. “Those dollars made by the sweat of your brow.” ne Y * n *he prosecution of criminals or appointed by the Court to defend
men made criminal in many instances by strong drink.
1 have been requested to give my impression of the effects alcohol $2,240.00 for Constables to aiTest, and $1,400.00 for Magistrates
has had on the inmates at Montevue for the two years that 1 was the to try prisoners. Expensive proposition, isn’t it Mr. taxpayer? 98 per
i hysician at that institution. cent the product of booze.
There were about sixty-five insane men and women. I would say C i -a du j i, . 1 iQlt; tn 1
alcohol was the cause of twenty-five per cent of the insanity. Sheriff Rhodenck reports from December 1, 191b, to October 1,
Of the cases of the County poor, ninety per cent of them were brought 1916, the following:
there on account of the effects of alcohol. PrisOllCl’S - - 321
Ninetv-live of the cases committed for a period of a week or ten days ’ ** . . ‘ ' <”11
were due to drunkenness. lil'CfiiVlMl DITIIIK. - - I *r I
In the Tubercular department would say that in every tubercular (MtV PrisOllUl'S 272
mide, alcohol played a prominent part m the cause of the disease. * . , Iv , .
b. 0. Thomas, m. d. Received Drunk, - 2(>7
September 30, 1916. Fotill ReCCIVed, * * •)!•{
Number of patients today at Montevue 116 Total Drunk, ■ - 40S
Number of patients on account of drunkenness 18 m i. i i x Lc vl , irjw i o ilikw
c. f. goodell, m. d. lotal Number or Meals Served,
Citizens of Frederick County don’t you feel proud of that record? “One Interested in Frederick” says you ought to be proud
of the soberness of your city. Compare that record with the empty jail in Carroll County, dry for some months.
The drink bill of $200,000.00 for Frederick City yearly did not place anything in that increased bank deposit to the credit of the wives and children of
those wage-earners who go home full every Saturday night and their pocket books empty.
Saloon conditions have improved as “One Interested in Frederick” says.
We certainly think so from the Sheriff’s report. The crop of “soaks” for the past ten months has been a good one. And Mr. Taxpayer it cost you
money to furnish 9,608 meals at the jail.
Read this from the Auditors’ Report:
“We understand that persons arrested within the corporation of Frederick and convicted before City police magistrates are either fined or imprisoned in
the County jail. If fined, the fines go to the City. If sent to jail, the prisoners are maintained at the expense of the County. We recommend, that either the
fines revert to the County treasury or else the City pay for the maintenance of its prisoners at the County institution.”
J. P. KING, D. G. ZENTZ, O. M. FOGLE.
Now, Frederick County Taxpayers, do you understand this?
267 drunken City prisoners out of 272, fed at your expense.
“One interested in Frederick” says “let us alone. The County should not have a chance to vote Frederick City dry.”
Well, Mr. Taxpayer, “you are easy” if you don’t stop all this unnecessary expense. And now Mr. Taxpayer, hear the conclusion.
We agree with “One interested in Frederick” that the question of Prohibition or Local Option is a serious question.
There is not one penny paid into the Treasury of Frederick County from the license fees of the saloons and liquor dealers of Frederick City
and County. Frederick City gets some revenue. Emmitsburg gets some and the State gets the balance. Now Mr. Taxpayer what do you get?
The Whisky seller fiddles and you get the privilege of stepping to the music of 15 cents or more on every dollar of taxes out of that hard earned
money of yours to care for the product of the saloons. Mr. Taxpayer of Frederick County, if the saloon is closed how can the tax rate be raised
to make up for loss of revenue from saloons when Frederick County does not receive one cent revenue? Mr. Taxpayer, the safe side of this ques
tion is the DRY SIDE. Vote to protect your interests, your homes, your wives, your children, and make Frederick County a better place in
which lo live.
Everybody Come to the Mass Meeting in Frederick Friday, October 6th, 7.30 P. M., at the Armory.
Speakers of National Reputation will give reasons why you should vote dry.
Published by authority of the United Dry Forces of Frederick County. R. R. Lewis, Treasurer.
THURMONT, FREDERICK COUNTY, MD., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916.
A Family Newspaper—lndependent in Politics—Devoted to Literature, Local and General News.
Hughes In Maryland.
Will Speak la Baltimore Next
Tuesday.
The people of Maryland, and particu
larly the politicians, both Democratic
and Republican, are looking forward with
a great deal of interest to the visit of the
Republican Candidate for President of
the United Stales, Hon. Charles Evans
Hughes, next week. Mr. Hughes will
spend but one day in Maryland, and that
day will be Tuesday, October 10th.
Mr. Hughes will make but two speeches
in Maryland. The first will be at Elkton,
where his train will stop but a few min
utes. At Elkton the meeting will be ad
dressed also by Dr. Joseph I. France,
candidate for United States Senator and
Hon. Robert F. Duer, candidate for Con
gress, in the first Congressional District,
i Both in his speeches and in his private 1
life Mr. Hughes is as intensely human as
Roosevelt, and is thought by many to be
even more cordial in his treatment of
those who are not his most intimate
political associates. But it is about his
official character that the people are most
concerned. It is stated that throughout
his professional life he never would ac
cept a general retainer, and would never
put himself where he would even pro
fessionally be obliged to present an ar
gument in the court which was not back
ed by his real conviction. Furthermore,
it is conceded even by his most crit
ical enemies that in official life as
i Governor of New York ho was never
swerved by considerations of political or
personal expediency, and that in his
judicial career his opinions were based
wholly and absolutely upon the logical
and necessary interpretation of the law.
In fact he is one of the few men who
have reached great prominence in Amer
ican politics whose record has not at
some time been marred by very evident
show of ambition.
The Baltimore meeting will be at 8.15
o’clock, in the evening at the Fifth Reg
iment Armory and it is expected that the
attendance from the city and from all
portions of the State will be large. This
is one of the largest buildings of the kind |
in the United States, but it will bo so j
\ arranged that every person in the audi- j
I ence will he able to hear practically every j
word of the Hughes’ speech.
Pork Demanding Fancy Prices,
“Pigs is pigs,” according to the old
j saying, but just now they seem to be
j "velvet” or “cream,” or anything else
I that denotes real worth, and if you don’t
believe this statement, just try to buy
one of these filthy animals or the meat
which they make. Literally, “way out
of sight” is the price of pork. Think of
hogs selling for 12 and 13 cents pound,
net, or about 10 cents, gross; but you
don’t have to think about it for that’s
what’s being done every day, and the
poor consumer, who enjoys a nice juicy
piece of bacon or sausage, is compelled
to pay the price. Butchers are asking 20
to 26 cents a pound for pork. Hams are
quoted at 24 to 26 cents. Sausage is
bringing about 30 cents, and pudding 15.
—Hagerstown Mail.
For a Muddy Complexion.
Take Chamberlain’s Tablets and adopt
a diet of vegetables and cereals. Take
outdoor exercise daily and your complex
on will be greatly improved within a
few months. Try it. Obtainable every
where.
j Advertisement.
World’s Largest Coal Ship.
The largest coal ship in the world
—the Milazzo —recently ducked in
New York. She was designed by an
Italian, Captain Emilio Menada,
who has earned a reputation for him
self as an inventor of transporting
machinery. The Milazzo can hold
14,000 long tons of coal and 4,500
tons of oil. She is a veritable store
house of intricate machinery. Coal
cars run on tracks in her vast in
terior.
- •
School is Worth $9 A Day.
“Every day spent in school the
children earn $9.”
This statement was made by the
Superintendent of Schools, C. I’.
Cary, who bases his estimate on the
official records of the Bureau of Edu
cation at Washington. Here is what
he offers as proof of the statement.
“Uneducated laborers earn on an
average SSOO a year for 40 years, a
total of $20,000.
“High school graduates earn on
on average SI,OOO a year fur 10 years
a total of $40,000.
“This education requires 12 years
of ISO days each, a total of 2,160
days. If 2,160 days at school add
$20,000 to the income for life, then
each day at school adds $9,02.
“Forceful as this summarization of
earnings is,” said Mr. Cary, “it tells
but one side of the story —the money
side. Back of this can be seen im
proved standards of living, more in
telligent and progressive communi
ties and a stronger national life.”
Terms SI.OO in Advance
NO. 30.
TAMPICO SCUTTLE
A CRAVEN AFFAIR,
SAYS ROOSEVELT
Constituted So Grave an Offense
Against the Nation’s Honor
i and Duty That the Man
Responsible Should Be
Removed From Office.
WILSON CANNOT SHIELD
HIMSELF BEHIND DANIELS
Authentic Proof That Americans In
Peril Were Deserted by Their Own
Government Against the Protests of
the Senior Naval Officer Present-
Most Pusillanimous Episode in the
Naval Annals of Our Country.
Theodore Roosevelt In a letter to
Henry Ueuterduhl, the naval critic,
criticises President Wilson and Secre
tary Daniels In connection with the
Tampico affair, when the American
warships were withdrawn by order of
the Administration. The colonel says;
“You have presented authentic proof
of how the Americans In peril at
Tampico were deserted by their own
government against the protest of the
senior American naval ofticer present.
You have shown that the government
at Washington had full knowledge of
the danger of the situation through
telegrams from Admiral Mayo sent
by wireless to the navy department
on April 11, 12 and 13. You also
give the telegram of Mr. Daniels of
April 20 directing the admiral to pro
ceed to Vera Cruz.
Mayo Feared Loss of Life.
“You have shown that Admiral
Mayo made an emphatic protest to
the navy department, stating that he
feared the result of the squadron’s
leaving would he the loss of American
lives and property. You also quote
Hie telegrams sent hy Admiral Mayo
ihe following day, containing the pro
test of the American consul, Mr.
Miller, and requesting authority to
remain at Tampico. You have shown
that, nevertheless, the navy depart
ment on the 21st confirmed Its previ
ous orders and directed the ships to
leave at once.
“You have shown that the admiral
put out Into the ocean eight miles
distant, but received a protest from
Consul Miller reiterating his demand
for protection. You then quote the
telegrams and signals of Admiral
Mayo, who, In spite of his orders,
nobly refused to run from the post
of duty while the lives of American
men, women and children were In
danger.”
Can’t Hide Behind Daniels.
Of the President and Secretary
Daniels the colonel writes:
"President Wilson cannot shield him
self behind Mr. Daniels, for Mr. Dan
iels could do nothing that the
president does not order or sanction.
When Mr. 1 binlels' actions have been
brought to tile attention of Mr. Wil
son, and are not repudiated hy him,
they become Mr. Wilson's; and Mr.
Wilson Is fully and completely respon
sible for Mr. Daniels, for all that
he has done and left undone.
“The proof Is absolute that when
Admiral Mayo was at Tampico he hud
received full knowledge of the rioting
and of the imminent danger to Am
erican lives; but that, nevertheless,
he steamed away into the ocean; and
that the Americans were rescued by
German and British ships. This ac
tion constituted so grave an offense
from the standpoint of national duty
and self-respect, that any man re
sponsible for It should be at once
taken out of oilice.
Facts Made Public in U. S.
“Shortly thereafter the facts were
made public In the United States. If
Admiral Mayo had been responsible
and had not acted under orders, then
the only proper course for Secretary
Daniels would have been to order his
Instant court-martial, and In such case
the failure to do so would have shifted
the blame at once from the shoulders
of Admiral Mayo to the shoulders of
superiors, President Wilson and Secre
tary Daniels.
"Therefore, even If these telegrams
did not exist, even If there had been
no such orders, or those actually Is
sued by the secretary of the navy
to Admiral Mayo, nevertheless, his
superiors, Secretary Daniels and
President Wilson, would both have
become fully responsible for the
guilty transaction by their acquies
cence therein. They cannot, us they
have sought to do, shift the blame
to the shoulders of the admiral.”
The Soldier Vote.
A significant feature following the
Maine election was the nature of the
soldier vote.
It ts reported that one Maine bat
talion hiked 60 miles In two days for
the purpose of exercising the fran
chise.
And we know how they voted!
Josephus Daniels might have made
a passable secretary of the Salvation
Navy, but It was pretty rough to
impose him on Uncle Sam’s lighting
navy.
The British censorship ts delaying
tli United States mulls almost as
