Oregon BtotolaJM
Ashland
Tidings
"Ashland Grows White Lithia flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Uthla Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa'
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON O.'HURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916
NUMBER 39
Things Moving at
Commercial Club
Blue Ledge Mine
To Be Worked
$ FARM IA).V MEET SATl'IU
D.W. f.
As the Tidings is going to preBS
today ' the finishing touches are be
ing put on the new Commercial Club
office. A big gold leaf sign is' being
plastered on the window, "Hop" Tu
rucker, Clark Dush and Henry End
ers of the house committee and a
corps of willing workers are arrang
ing the furniture and fixtures, and
the club office will be open for in
spection in the morning. And it
surely is a beauty. Any housewife
would be proud of a room so spick
and span, and any office man would
be overjoyed to have an opportunity
to sit In an office so tastefully and
efficiently arranged. But, then, step
In next time you are down town and
see It yourself. The house commit
tee has surely worked wonders and
the Commercial Club has the nicest
office in Ashland.
At the Monday night meeting of
the club, the first held In the city
hall council chamber,' the house com
mittee reported the sale of the bil
liard tables to E. R. Grelve, realiz
ing a sum for them which will pay j will speak in Ashland on the evening
the expenses of moving and fixing 1 of Wednesday. October 11, is not only
up the new quarters and go a long one of the leading lawyers of Ore
ways toward clearing off the few gon, but a speaker of exceptional
dollars of indebtedness which the, ability. Mr. Clark was the candidate
club is fast melting away. In the of the progressive party for seniitor
past three months great progress has in 1912. He Is of Scotch-Irish pa
been made in clearing up the In-! rentage; worked his way through col
debtedness of the club, and another lege cutting wood, driving logs and
couple of months will see the Ash- i bossing railroad construction in
land Commercial Club free from northern Minnesota. He became a
debt and squarely on Its feet. The i lawyer when 23 years of age, practlc
house committee explained what j ing In the state of Minnesota until
they were doing but withheld a full he came to Portland in 1906. He
report until the moving w-ork is over. I was a member of the commission ap
Dlsposal of the piano, which is the ( pointed to revise judicial procudure
club's property, was discussed and 1 in Oregon; was chairman of the cltl-
wlll be investigated further. . , zen's charter commission of Portland.
1
Secretary F. J. Shlnn was instruct-1
ed to prepare a resolution of thanks
from the club and present It to the '
city council, thanking them for the j
notion taken in regard to helping the
Commercial Club with the securing
'!
vi ue nuai iois. j
Plans for a house-warming wnen
the new quarters are finished were
left to the house committee. ;
A letter from the Portland Cham-
ber of Commerce asking the Ashland
club to send a representative to a speckled and in spots almost covered
meeting which is to be held in Ta-; with little flakes and specks of gold,
coma on October 11 for the purpose 1 Dave, with the familiarity which dig
of mobilizing the organizations ofging the stuff out has bred, stated
the northwest in a co-operative en-; that he "guessed he would have a
deavor to attract tourist travel to j couple of watch charms turned out
the northwest, was read and dis- for me and my partner." He passed
cussed, and arrangements may be by Inquiries regarding progress with
made to have Ashland represented the remark that they were getting
at least at a meeting which will be! out quite a little and launched into
held In Portland prldr to the Tacoma j a discourse on iioxr good the flap
meet. I jacks which he and his fellow min
Road matters In general and the i ers had for breakfast every morning
Dead Indian road in particular were j tasted.
discussed, and Messrs. Shinn and ! "How much did you bring in?" we
Frohbach reported that they had Inquired.
made one trip to the county seat and j ..oh just enough dust t0 pay the
would mute another Thursuy (to-igrocery l(i and buy up a few 8Up.
day) for the purpose ot securing co-j pileB he gtated. and sticking a
operation from the county In secur-1 nandfui of goiden quartz carelessly
Ing aid from the sum which the gov-1 jnt0 hl8 tr0User8 pocket, moved on
ernment has set aside for the im-, to the next gtop
provement of roads in the forest re-1 h)g
serve. Their report indicated that rjch Hu k c,alms
there was a good chance of securing 1
I which they purchased, and Dave ex
this aid next year, although it was:,,,
j , hibits a pair of heavily calloused
too late to get in on this year s ap- r
. . , ,, . 1 hands to prove it.
propriation. A determined effort I
will be made to this end. )
Two amendments to the charter ' StUdiO AShland
were passed, both minor, one does
v away with the five dollars admission
fee to the club and the other changes
the charter so that small details of
club finances are left to the board
of trustees of twelve members. j
The club will be settled down in
the new quarters by next week and ;
ready to begin a campaign to make i
the Ashland Commercial Club the I Donal Canon winning the saddle in
biggest and liveBt organization in aithe bucking contest at the Rogue
r.itv of this size on the coast. I
Valley Ministers
Meet Here Monday
The Rogue River Valley Minis
terial Association meets in Ashland
next Monday at the Congregational
church. Ministers from all denomi
nations and from every town in the
valley will be here. Business meet
ing and various discussions will be
held and the following program fea
tures: A paper by Rev. H. A. Car
nahan on "Tolerance of Evil;" a
paper by Rev. Alfred A. J. Hogg of
Medford on "The Inspiration of the
Bible;" book reviews by Rev. L. M.
Boozer of Grants Pass and Rev. D.
D. Edwards of Ashland, and other
features. A dinner will be served at
noon. . . .
S' V
' t J
'I
Hon. A. E. ( lark.
Hon. A. E. Clark of Portland,
who
T"
ChAAf If Cull nf
MUVVl lli ft IU1 VI
Gold with Revolver
"Sure, that wag easy," said Dave
Good ..We 8not it fun ot gold witK
a revolver." - And it looked like
g0meone had sprinkled gold on it
out of a salt shaker. "It" was a
beautiful piece of white quartz,
Wins Leslie Prize
The Studio Ashland received the
third prize from Leslie's Weekjy for
the best photograph of a current
news event during the month of
July. Their photograph was of
River Roundup at Ashland.
Last Month's
Weather Ideal
September was an almost ideal
month for Ashland. Only four days
! were cloudy in the entire month, al
though five others were partly
cloudy. The rain was far below the
average for September rainfall, but
came early in the month when it
would do the most good. The month
was lacking in extremely warm
weather, the maximum being 92 de
grees on the 14th. The minimum
was 35, there being no frosts. Sixty
five was the lowest daily maximum.
The report of Observer Dodge ap
pears elsowhere in this issue.
Phone news items to the Tidings.
Brethren of State
Convening Here
The state conference of the Church
of the Brethren is assembling in Ash
land this week. .Ministers and lay
members from all over Oregon are
In attendance and interesting ses
sions arc held morning, afternoon
and evening at the Brethren church
on Iowa street, opposite the high
school. Rev. P. S. VanPyke of New
berg will deliver a missionary ser
mon this evening and Kev. A. J. El
lenberger of Klamath Falls a tem
perance talk tomorrow evening. The
mornings and afternoons are given
over to departmental work.
Thermometer Takes
A Sudden Descent
The thermometer dropped most
emphatically with the coming of Oc
tober, and Tuesday night went down
to 23 degrees above zero, which is
I pretty chilly considering the fact
that most people have yet to take
advantage of the unparalleled values
in winter underwear at the Ashland
stores. Things froze up badly, toma
toes which were still on the vines
and other vegetables feeling the nip.
City Will Widen
Park Avenue
Immediate steps are to be taken
for the widening of Park avenue
from the Peil corner to the creamery
by the purchase of the Billings barn
property and acceptance of a gift of
a small slice off the Perozzi proper
ty. This wag authorized at the Tues
day council meeting. The city will
pay Mr. Billings $375 for his prop
erty, which is 30 by 20 feet and upon
which stands his barn, Mr. Billings
agrees to remove the bain, within
twenty-five days. Considerable ar
gument ensued over this purchase,
Mr. Cornelius .believing it too big a
price and the other councllmen tak
ing the view that it was worth the
price to Mr. Billings, who would
have to pay stable rent otherwise
since he drives to town every day.
Mr. Root stated that Mr. Billings had
shown him that the barn was worth
more than the interest on $500 to
him. In view of the fact that ex
pediency was deemed better than de
lay, and probably legal action would
cost the city more than Mr. Billings'
price, the deal was authorized.
D. Perozzi deeds to the city for
one dollar all the land needed from
his property for the widening, the
city to move back his barn to the
new property line. The committee
In charge of the matter was granted
more time in their negotiations with
the Chautauqua people regarding the
strip needed on the other side.
One Hundred Fifty
Pioneers Gather
Word coming from Jacksonville
this afternoon states that 150 south
ern Oregon pioneers are already in
attendance at the reunion, with more
coming in all the time. Miss Mollie
Towne delighted the gathering with
a beautiful tribute to the pioneers
this morning and a big dinner was
served this noon. Musical and liter
ary numbers were also given and
the program is being continued this
afternoon.
Will Sell Lithia
Water in Portland
R. A. M inkier, a member of the
springs water commission prior to
his removal to a ranch in the Wil
lamette valley, and who has since
been back in Ashland, left this week
for Portland, where he will establish
offices and handle Ashland lithia wa
ter. The water will be Bhlpped from
here in bottles and tanks by the Ash
land Lithia Water Company, who
have had the water on the market
for some time past. Mr. Mlnkler ex
pects to build up a big trade in Port
land, and Btates that he finds a great
demand there already because of the
advertising which Ashland lithia wa
ter has received. The proposition
will work two ways, Ashland secur
ing a great deal of advertising from
the lithia water sold in Portland.
Retail and wholesale marketing will
be gone into. .
Manager F. W. .Carnahan of the
Blue Ledge mine has engaged about
twelve men, according to the Med
ford papers, and will start opera
tions at the Blue Ledse mine Imme
diately. This force will be greatly
Increased and the property put in
shape for full operation In the
spring. When a sufficient amount
of ore has been blocked out It will
be either shipped out on the project
ed railroad, should that materialize,
or hauled on trucks to Medford. The
Blue Ledge is an immense copper
district lying west of Jacksonville.
Judge Withington
Passes at Medford
. llolbrook Withington. for the past
ten years one of the best known and
popular residents of Medford, died
at 2:30 o'clock Wednesday morning,
October 4, at the Sacred Heart hos
pital, aged 4,2 ears, from a compli
cation of diseases from which he
had suffered for the past year. The
end was due to heart failure and
came suddenly, as only last Satur
day lie was'abie to visit about town.
Club and Council
Will Work Together
Recognizing the fact that park and
mineral waters should be placed in
the hands of a new board to have
control of both, and also that pro
vision for funds for the maintenance
and vitallzation of the resort propect
should be made, but being unable
to accept the charter amendment in
its entirety as offered by the Com
mercial Club board of trustees, the
city council Tuesday night voted to
turn down the request to place the
amendment before the people, and
Immediately followed this with the
unanimous passage of a motion re
questing the president of the Com
mercial Club to call a meeting at
some future date of the trustees and
Invite the city council and city attor
ney to attend for the purpose of for
mulating an amendment which in
the opinion of all would be suitable.
This action followed a discussion of
some length which was participated
in by the councllmen and President
Smith of the Commercial Club. The
proposed charter amendment as of
fered by the Commercial Club pro
posed to do away with the park
board and springs water commission
and place the whole project in the
hands of a new board. Provisions
were also made for funds for the
work. The discussion was most har
monious, without a single discordant
note, and augurs well for good re
sults when the council and club get
together to formulate the new
amendment.
State Prohi Field
Worker is Here
Mrs. Juliette M. F. Francis, field
secretary of the Oregon prohibition
state committee, is here from Port
land to organize the local prohibi
tion forces. She Is stopping at the
Hotel Austin and is anxious to get in
touch with local workers. A com
mittee will be organized here and
a gathering of some kind held next
week with Mark B. Weatherford as
the principal speaker.
Plan to Cut Corner
Off Library Park
In order to relieve the congestion
which so often occurs at the corner
of Gresham and Main streets at the
White House grocery corner, the
realty committee and the city attor
ney are investigating the possibility
of cutting off a corner of the. trian
gular shaped park at the corner and
widening Gresham street at the cor
ner. But a little piece of the park
would be necessary to make a radi
cal difference in the shape of the
street there and would allow much
more room. Autolsts who have had
occasion to drive down Gresham
street know well the difficulty which
is experienced under present condi
tions in turning to the right.
The Oregon Power Company plans
extension of its. power line from
Marahfield to Bandon.
There wlll .be a meeting of
the farmers of the district at
the city hall next Saturday af
ternoon at 2:30. Others Inter
ested besides the landowners
and renters are also urged to
attend. Ashland has one of the
first loan associations In the
state Slid everyone interested
should become a charter mem
ber by attending Saturday's
meeting. Speakers who know
their subject will explain de
tails of the act.
Conference Returns
Methodist Pastors
At the recent Methodist confer
ence at Lebanon the following local
appointments were confirmed for an-1
other year: Rev. H. J. Van Fossen,
superintendent of the Klamath dis
trict; Itev. W. J. Douglass, Ashland;
Rev. M. C. Reed, Talent. These
three clergymen reside here.
New Proprietor
Ashland Cafe
H. R. Gray has taken over the
Ashland Hotel dining room and is
making extensive changes and im
provements. A competent white
cook has been employed" to replace
the Chinese cooks who have been
used in the kitchen recently and new
equipment installed.
Hughes Alliance
Holds Meeting
..it.,
The first meeting of the Ashland
Hughes Alliance was held In the
library Wednesday' afternoon and a
most enthusiastic session field. A
permanent organization was effected
with the four officers elected at the.
mass meeting retained as permanent
officers, these being Mrs. D. Perozzi,
president; Mrs. Nellie Briggs, vice
president; Mrs. Alice Pell, secretary;
Mrs. Hum Pracht, treasurer.
Ben Sheldon and C. M. Thomas,
' the republican nominees for repre
sentatives from this county to the
state legislature, spoke, making a
fine Impression, as did also W. H.
Gore, the republican nominee for
joint representative. Several sub
jects of current Importance were dis
cussed, the normal question and oth
er local problems among them. The
candidates made an especially strong
plea for the support of the whole
delegation so that Jackson county
could hat 8 a united representation
In the legislature, which Is bound to
be overwhelmingly republican. To
wield an) Influence for the county,
a full republican representation is
deemed absolutely necessary. Coun
ty Chairman Bert Anderson also ad
dressed the meeting, making an Im
pressive lalk.
Mrs. Perozzi appointed twenty
four delegates to the state confer
ences of Hughes Alliances which will
he held In Portland tomorrow.
A reception Committee to greet
the Hughes Women Special which
will arrive here on October 15 was
appointed and plans laid to give the
visitors a royal demonstration.
Fred Herrin Buys
Blue Ribbon Rams
While on a visit to the state fair
at Salem last week, Fred Herrin pur
chased two registered rams and a
registered ewe with which to Im
prove his registered sheep herds.
One of the rams was purchased bat
fore the awards were made and the
former owner was sorry for himself
and Fred correspondingly jubilant
when the beast received , the blue
ribbon In his class. The registered
stock are RamouilettB and were
bought of Schmidt Bros, of Oregon
City. Originally they came from the
famous Butterfleld herd in Welser,
Idaho. The two raniB and ewe, ar
rived In Ashland Sunday and were
much admired.
Over 600 men are now employed
directly and indirectly npon street
improvement work at Astoria. The
viaduct systems will consume over
four million feet of lumber.
Council Meeting
Proves Interesting
The chief of police, mayor, city
engineer and various other officials,
spectators and hangers-on built the
first fire of the season in the old
sheet Iron stove in the council cham
ber Tuesday evening, the occasion,
being the first October meeting.
While the room grew warmer and
wanner and finally hotter and hot
ter, the recorder read the minutes
and the usual monthly and quarterly
reports. The regular batch of bills
were ordered paid.
Superintendent of Cemeteries Eu
gene Walrnd was granted his annual
vacation. A. L. Irwin will take his
place during his absence.
City Electrician Strickland stated
that the work of the department
would hardly allow him to take a
ten days' layoff and that he would
like to lake the ten days one at a
time as opportunity offered. Per
mission was granted.
Chester Stevenson asked that the
council pass a resolution releasing
his bonds, tills coming as an after
math to his resignation from th
springs water commission several
months ago. A resolution of thanks
from the Commercial Club was ac
cepted. The street committee reported
that extensive improvements on the
board walks In several parts of town
were needed and the street superin
tendent was asked to instruct the
property owners to repair the walks
which were in poor condition. There
are but few bits of board walk left
In the city and much of It needs re
pair. No doubt some of It will be
replaced by more permanent walk
this rail.
Matters pertaining to the widen
ing of Park avenue were discussed
as elsewhere reported.
An offer of par plus 1 per cent
premium, plus Interest, from the
First National Bank for a bond
which the city has for sale was re
jected and the bond taken over by
the depreciation fund of the electric
light department. This was conced
ed to be a good move as the electric
light department's depreciation fund
has considerable surplus which la
only drawing 2 per cent and which
will not be needed during the ten
year life of the bond.
Councilman Cornelius was granted
a ten days' leave of absence to com
mence about the 15th of this jonth.
The street departmrrr cas ordered
to repaint the markings on the pave
ment which direct the autolsts In
the way they shall go.
A new electric stove for the Jafl
Is needed, a fractious prisoner hav
ing broken up the last one in a mo
ment of exuberance last winter. Teh
new stove was ordered. Mr. Lamb
suggested that the city electrician fit
the stove bo that the next prisoner
who gets familiar with it will re
ceive a shocking sencatlon.
Cutting off a corner of the little
park at the corner of Gresham and
Main streets was discussed as else
where reported.
A change In the arrangement of
the pen that holds In the council, or,
rather, holds out the common herd,
was left to the finance committee.
The petition concerning the char
ter amendment proposed by the
Commercial Club trustees was taken
from the table and by unanimous
vote was rejected.
A transfer of funds from one fund
to another was authorized, and the
meeting f djourned.
Smith-Emery
Contract Settled
Final settlement was made last
week of the claim of Smith, Emery
& Co. against the city of Ashland on
the springs physical plant contract.
When the plant was offered for
acceptance the commission had $15,
000 which would have been due
Smith, Emery & Co. had the plant
beeii accepted.
The springs water commission did
not deem the plant In proper condi
tion for acceptance at the time and
withheld the last $15,000 payment.
In the meantime the commission
went forward putting the plant in
condition for acceptance and paying
the expense out of the Smith-Emery
contract money.
Last week the matter was finally
settled upon payment by the com
mission of $9,452 in full settlement
of all claims against the city by
reason of the Smith-Emery contract.
Eat at Lithia Restaurant. 39-Jt
