cam.
The Blackfoot Opti
OFFICIAL PAPER OF BLACKFOOT CITY AND BINGHAM CO., IDA.
VOL. IX. NO. 45
BLAJCKFOOT. BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO, THURSDAY. OCTOBER 5, 1916
$2.00 PER YEAR
SO PEOPLE
MAY KNOW
Blaekfoot ami Bingham county are
enjoying an era of prosperity never be
fore experienced. Buildings and work
now umler construction and those com
pleted this year aggregate a total val
uation of about $350,000. This does
not include many small buildings and
additions which have been made dur
ing the same period. We believe this
is a good time for every citizen to put
his shoulder to the wheel of progress
and push Blaekfoot forward so that
she will lead all the cities of South
eastern Idaho. To aid this progress we
must have permanent, hard-surfaced
county roads, and the only way to at
tain this is by a bond issue which will
tollable the county to provide an ade
quate fund for the construction of the
same. We believe the sentiment is in
favor of a bond issue'of a half million
dollars, said amount to be expended
under the supervision of a competent
road engineer. We believe this bond
issue should be sbumltted to the voters
at. an early date.
FEED SAYS, "CHEER UP."
Ex-Senator Fred T. Dubois, the na
tional Democratic organizer and mis
sionary of the West, has returned from
a tonr of inspection and reports that
the women of the West who want suf
frage, ami the men of the West who
want peace, are going to re-elect Wil
son. He leaves again for Montana to
instill his political optimism into the
hearts of his fellowmen of that Demo
cratic stronghold.
See the Novelties in Ladies' Brooches
at 25c. Just arrived.
The BROWN-HART CO
Orpheum
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
OCT. 11-12
The Most Perfectly Formed
Woman in the World.
ANNETTE KELLERMAN
—In—
"Neptune's Daughter"
A Weird, Wild, Spectacular
Drama in 7 Parts
Prices, 15 25c.
SCHOOL NOTES
The enrollment in the various schools
continues to increase almost daily.
There is a strong probability of several
rooms being divided and but half time
given to each set of pupils. This is a
poor substitute for a full school day,
but is better than one teacher trying
to handle a room of sixty or more pu
pils at one time.
The grade school teachers held a
meeting on Wednesday evening to give
special attention to the problem of re
tardation and acceleration as it exists
in the Blaekfoot schools. A table will
be prepared which charts the exact
standing of every room in the schools.
A special study will be made of the stat
us of eaeh child that docs not conform
to the standard conditions and an ef
fort will be made to give such children
special attention.
The Commercial Department receives
many calls these days for help in the
various offices about town. The de
mand is so great that few of the stu
dents really remain to finish up the
course, before some one offers a posi
tion so atractive that the student can
not turn it down.
Mr. Avery is organizing an employ
ment bureau for the benefit of the
boys who wish jobs and want to get in
touch with all the farmers who ecu use
potato pickers or other laborers during
the week beginning October 23rd. A
telephone call or a postal card address
ed to the High School will receive
special attention. This labor will be
available for jobs about town as well
as in the country. •
The ladies' gymnasium class met on
Wednesday evening with a good at
tendance. Miss Baron, one of the High
School teachers who has had charge of
the Play Ground work in Denver for
the past year, is the instructor. The
class is open to any of the ladies of the
city, free of charge. It is intended
that the work shall bn of a sort that
will give all a mild form of healthful
exercise, and at the same time couple
up the pleasure of suitable games as
soon as the preliminary stages have been
covered.
The business men 's volley ball games
will begin next week avoiding to pres
ent plans. Last winter a bunch of fif
teen or twenty men took part in these
bi-weekly games, but there is every in
dication of a much larger crowd this
year, and several teams will be organ
ized for a regular tournament, lasting
for the winter months. If you are in
terested notify II. I). Macosham, 0. V.
Fisher or W. I). Vincent at once.
The Parent-Teachers' Association
will meet this week in the High School
auditorium on Friday, at 4 o'clock.
An interesting program has been ar
ranged which sliuuld bring out a full
attendance.
Supt. Vincent spent the day in Poca
tello on Tuesday, making arrangements
for the Institute and looking after oth
er school business.
Prof. J. F. Lewis accompanied the
Pocatello boys on their trip to our
city last. Friday in quest of football
glory. Mr. Lewis attended the Senior
reception in the evening and then re
mained over until late Saturday, visit
ing friends.
The Senior class gave a party to the
visiting football .players and their
friends as well as the High School fac
ulty on Friday evening of last week.
About 125 attended and all enjoyed
the hospitality of the class of 1917.
The Pocatello people had to stay until
the 2:00 a. in. train and appreciated a
place to spend the time in fun and
frolic. Games of all sorts were in
dulged in until a late hour, when light
refreshments were served. A general
gooil time was the verdict of all.
The Eiglish classes are contemplating
a mock trial in the near future. The,\
will first attend some suitable trial at
court and then take over the informa
tion ami stage a trial of their own.
Miss Baron and Miss Noel are full of
ambition and energy, and their classes
are responding heartily.
LIBRARY REPORT
September 1st to October 1st, 1916.
Rent of books loaned ................$ .59
Juvenile .......................................... 2.69
Adult fiction ................................ 2.03
Reference books ............................ .05
Total ........................................$ 5.16
Members registered, 296.
Attendance, 862.
Rent collection ............................$ 3.90
Fines ................................................ 2.51
Total ........................................$ 6.41
Gifts ................................................ 103.00
Total ........................................$109.41
NOTICE TO POTATO GROWERS
Bond Bros, will be prepared to re
ceive potatoes at the Aiken Switch,
Monday, Oct. 9th, at the market price.
Just received a ear of corn.—Adv.
Latest reports from the European
front contain the same old stuff served
up under a new name.
If you can't- speak well of this town,
at least don't speak at all.
ANNOUNCEMENT
MISS JACKMAN AND MISS PEN
NINGTON HAVE ENLARGED THEIR
PLACE OF BUSINESS ON PACIFIC
STREET, OPPOSITE THE BON TON,
WITH A FULL LINE OF ART GOODS
AND UP-TO-DATE STOCK OF MIL
LINERY.
THE TAX PAYERS FRIEND
HON. D. W. DAVIS
Of American Falls, successful candidate for governor on the Republican tick
et. Governor Davis was nominated by a very heavy vote, considering the
light vote cast, in the state. He carried the southeastern part of the state,
with a heavy vote in the southwestern part of the state and carried several
of the northern counties, demonstrating the fact that he is the stronger of
the men who were candidates, and is the man who will make the strongest
race against Governor Alexander.
Want a $10,000 Library,
a Site and a Thousand a Year
The city council held a regular ad
journed meeting Tuesday night with a
quorum and mayor present.
Minutes of the previous regular ad
journed meeting were read and approv
ed with a few corrections.
Mesdames Fred T. Dubois, P. W.
Powers, J. T. Oarruth, ('has Harris, ,1.
G. Brown and L. R. Aldrich, chaperoned
by Mrs. Duckworth and West, appear
ed before the council pleading for a
$10,000 Carnegie library and an annual
appropriation of $1000 to maintain the
same, on a suitable site also to be pro
vided by the city council. Mr. Duck
worth made quite a lengthy and pas
sionate argument in favor of the pro
posed library, ns did Mrs. Aldrich.
Mrs. P. W. Powers, on behalf of the
Current Event Club, gave the solous
many important facts concerning the
present and proposed library. After
the ladies departed the council briefly
discussed their desire and its advisa
bility and -legality, and some of the
members, notwithstanding President
Duckworth's oft repeated and pathetic
narrative of how the youth of Black
foot was hungering for literature, in
sinuated that the city and its rising gen
eration had more urgent and beneficial
wants than books of which they now
had more than a thousand.
The matter was taken under advise
ment.
It was ordered that the water sup
ly of the Corbett Slough Ditch Co.
be investigated.
The following building permits were
granted: To Hansen Bros., to build a
brick addition to the Red Cross (im
age on Main street, 75x25 feet. To
Dahle & Eccles, to build a 2-story
brick store and office building on Tav
CURRENT EVENT CLUB
An unusually interesting meeting
of the Current Event Club was held at
the club rooms Monday, Oct. 2, 1916.
Roll call was responded to by quo
tations from James Whitcomb Riley.
Mrs. Astoria Wiliams, Mrs. L. A.
Jackson and Miss Josephine Hendrie
were elected members of the club.
Mesdames DeKay, Dubois and Aid
rich were elected delegates to the State
Federation meet to be held at Twin Falls
th second week of October. Mesdames
Biethan, Carruth and Keiulrie were
chosen alternates.
Prof. Vincent gave a very able ad
dress which was deeply appreciated by
those present, on " Socialologv.'' His
specific subject being "The Coming
Generation. ' '
Mrs. Minnie Jackson rendered a vo
cal solo.
Rev. Johnson and wife left today for
Gooding and the Rev. Chaney his suc
cessor, will occupy the Methodist pul
pit next Sunday.
Yes, it's a fact that many a great
man never breaks into history. We
know from experience.
The fellow who thinks he knows it
all usually knows less than the one who
admits that he knows nothing.
lor street, in the rear of the Pearson
grocery store.
The chief of police reported collec
tions amounting to $23 for September.
Ordered that bids be asked for the
construction of four cement street
crossings and extensions.
Ordered that the city purchase
twenty traffic signs, 4'/j feet high, for
ttie parking of autos.
City sexton reported collections
amounting to $126 for September.
Ordinance No. 195, granting the O. S.
I. . railroad a 50-year franchise for a
spur track on Main street from its de
pot'to the Anderson lumber yard, pass
ed and is published in this issue.
Clerk DeKay's $10.00 typewriter bill
met with some opposition, but was fi
nally nllowed with the solemn injunction
that no more such bills appear without
order of the council.
The following bills wer read and al
lowed:
Grove City Plumbing Co.........$ 9.70
Idaho Power Co........................... 9.45
Idaho Power Co........................ 232.00
Blaekfoot Waterworks .............. 199.00
M. S. Tel. & Tel. Co................... 1.25
.1. E. Good ...................................... 25.00
Brown-Eldredge ........................... 25.K9
Alvin Keil ...................................... 96.90
W. T. Brown ............................. 60.00
Blaekfoot Optimist .................... 13.25
Mrs. E. C. Staltz ............................ 4.00
B. F. Boyle Co............................95
White Transfer ....a...................... 2.00
J. B. Rollings ................................ 20.00
.1. Robinson .................................... 20.00
S. E. Roundv ................................ 96.40
I. E. Smith ...................................... 70.50
Dahle & Eccles .......................... 443.20
Wm. Drew ...................................... 85.00
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
What, then, are you doing to consti
tute yourself a good citizen?
What are you doing for this town?
What are you doing to justify your
citizenship in this town?
You can not sit down, criticise, let
others do the work that makes a town
or community, and still call yourself a
good citizen.
The good citizen never thinks only
of self. He must necessarily think of
self or he would not survive, but good
eitizeuship requires more than that—
much more.
It requires that you keep in mind
that there are others who have rights
and are entitled to have those rights re
spected by others—by you. Ou the
same basis you are entitled to have
your rights equally respected by them.
That is good citizenship—partially.
In addition, the good citizen remembers
that his town is entitled to his best ef
forts in its behalf, to the end that the
interests of the community may be ad
vanced by all legitimate means.
This means, too, that in advancing
the interests you are advancing your
own, which is the ultimate aim of th»
human race.
We make a specialty of printing
8a ii it ary Butterwrappers.
STAKE MEETINGS
On Sunday, October 15, 1916, the
following meetings will be held in
Blaekfoot, in the places mentioned:
High Council meeting at 10 a. m. in
the usual place. Meeting of the stake
presidency, high council, bishoprics and
ward clerks in the upper room of the
2nd Ward meeting house at 1:30 p. m.
Meeting of the Sunday School Union
at the same hour in the 1st Ward meet
ing house. Also the high priests quo
rum will meet at the same hour at the
usual place.
At 5 p. m. the Relief Society will hold
a meeting in tlit* 2nd Ward meeting
house and at the same hour there will
be a meeting under the direction of
the Primary Association in the same
building, in the usual place. At the
amp hour and in the 1st Ward meeting
house there will lie a meeting under
the direction of the Y. L. M. I. A. in
the north rooms.
At 3 p. ill. there will be a meeting of
the priesthood of the stake in the 1st
Ward meeting house. It is hoped that
the priesthood of the stake will lie in
attendance at this meeting and that all
the meetings of the sisters will be
fully attended. Everybody come, t
JAMES DUCKWORTH,
HEBER C. C. RICH,
NOFEAR DAVIS,
Stake Presidencv.
LIBRARY BOARD MEETING
At the regular Library Board nieeti
Tuesday evening it was decided to
place upon the magazine table for the
use of the reading public the folloivin
magazines:
The Youth's Companion, The Stock
Breeders' Gazette, The Gem State Ru
ral and Idaho Farmer, The Literary
Digest, Harper's, Woman's Home Com
panion.
Cases have been ordered in which to
file magazines. There are no better
reference books than such mngaziu
if properly filed. We wish to draw the
attention of the public, especially the
students in the High School, tii the
number of reference books we now
have on all subjects. These reference
books can be taken out, but, it is hoped
that the library will become a study
center. The ladies are doing all in
their power to make it* au attractive
place for study.
Lord Lytton's works have been giv
en; also Hall Caine's, and a complete
set of Thackeray during the past week.
There are now out 269 books and
only five are over due. This is some
record.
Kvory thoughtful citizen/Ought to read
the monthly library report in this pa
per and then study carefully whether
we need a city library. All country
children having itooke out ought to
return them Friday noon.
Sixty children listened attentively
to Mrs. Ernest Pearson as she so beau
tifully told the stones last Friday.
At 4 o'clock this Friday a treat has
been prepared for the children. If the
room was only larger the grown people
would be welcome, but many children
are forced to stand out. doors as it is
unless they come early.
The proceeds from the Merry Girl
minstrel show amounted to $90.
Many new books have been ordered
this week.
The city officers have been busy of
late gathering up (Trunken Indians,
who all insist that they get the booze
in Poeatello. As they are broke and
cannot pay their fines they are con
verted into street sweepers, a degree
that should be conferred on the distrib
utors of "Temple Club,'' which seems to
be the popular dry-land whisky.
Subscribe for The Optimist.
(r
Modern Protection
It is a serious matter to leave jewelry
or valuable papers loose around the
house, or try to protect them with or
dinary locks.
Even the average house or office safe
is inefficient to afford positive protec
tion for them against fire, theft and
designing persons.
We cordially invite you to investigate
our Safe Deposit Department. It pro
vides absolute safety, with every fa
cility for the convenience of boxhold
ers.
D. W. Standrod & Co.
Bankers
BLACKFOOT
IDAHO
DEATH OF NEIL
F. BOYLE JR.
Neil F. Boyle, Jr., who is in charge
of the Boyle Hardware Co. of Poca
tello, was brought home sick Saturday
night with what threatened to be an
attack of appendicitis or ptomaine poi
Mondny morning he was
for medical exam
SOlllll}!
taken to Salt. Lake
iuatiou. He was accompanied by
Dr. Patrie, who returned on this
morning's train and reports his pa
tient a victim of appendicitis in an
aggravated form. Yesterday afternoon
an operation was performed, and the
young man, though in a precarious eon
lition, had an even chance between
life and death. The many friends of
the young man hope that tiis valuable
and honorable career will be spared to
his devoted relatives and friends.
Just as we were going to press the
ad news of the death of N. F. Boyle,
Jr., reached Blaekfoot, and cast an ap
parent pall over the entire city, where
he was a unanimous favorite. His
mother and father were with him when
he died and to them has gone forth the
sympathy of this entire community.
SUGAR MAGNATES FORM TRUCE
Ogden, Oct. 2.—Confirming the re
port that an exchange of stock had
taken place between the Amalgamated
Sugar Company of this city and the
Utnh-Idaho Sugar Company of Salt
Lake City, Fred G. Taylor, secretary of
the local company, announced upon his
return from Idaho tonight that the
deal also included the purchase of the
New Brigham City factory by the Amal
gamated company. It is provided that
the local company shall assume eontrol
of the new factory on March 1, 1917.
Mr. Thompson also confirmed the re
port, that C. W. Nibley lunl retired as a
director of the Amalgamated com
pany and that D. C. Eeles had ceased
to be a director of the Utnh-Idaho
company. Their successors have not.
been named. As a result, of these
stock transactions heirs of the late
David Eccles and their associates ob
tain control of the Amalgamated com
pany.
The new Eccles Sugar Company, a
$2,060,000 corporation, launched only
a month ago, is also involved in the
deal in that it shall not invade tho
territory of the Utah Idaho company.
According to Mr. Taylor, neither the
Eccles company nor the Amalgamated
company are to enter into territory
competition with tho Utah Idaho com
pany under the agreement reached.
NOTICE TO MODERN WOODMEN
AND GENERAL PUBLIC
National Lecturer Edw. F. Brown
will deliver a lecture on Woodcraft at
I. O. O. F. Hall, Saturday evening,
Oct, 7th, at 8:00 o'clock.
Every bod v come.—Adv.
Boston scientist prediets
Don't like 'em, anyway.
ecut
Lowest prices for Boys'
Good Clothing. Biethan's.
