J.
HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
It r- - 1 i g n -
tin '" n IM r " ' - "
- h gh - ltstoik vi'tJ. Fto k-
TTEvrnrrv forfct
F.I Paso and wft Texa. fair colder
NV Mexico, fair, colder- Arizona fain
warmer.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. THURSDAY EVENING. OCTOBER 5. 1916.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY".
SIN'GLE COPV FIVE CENTS.
DELIERE1 AXTKHERE Sic A MONTH
000 TROOPS TO ENTRAIN FOR BORDE
f
t iCj iLB PK8 i PFvk (w9Rl ! , iii B flPi
s r w ITJ F - 1 li-T 1 IT" If . F1 H Jfll I
t
Milk Stations Are Besieged
By Women Clamoring for
Chance To Buy.
POLICE RESERVES
HALT OUTBREAK
Officials Say Milk Supply Is
Less Than Half That of
Preceding Day.
NEW XORK. Oct. S. The first
disorder growing out of the
milk situation took place here
arlj today when it was necessary to
ilj police reserves to disperse more
an uwo women, mostly foreigners,
- any with babies in arras, who
umed two health department milk
lations In Harlem.
The women previouslj had can
seed stores m the neighborhood in
.irch of milk for their children, and.
idins none, gathered at the city sta
ll us A few were admitted. Those
the outside, fearing the supply
- ould be exhausted before they could
served, rushed to the doors of the
jiiding.
Officers in charge of the stations :
-aid that their supply was less than
i aK of that received Wednesday. I
Save Milk for Babes. I
TDut approximately 36 percent of New
c k s normal supply of milk reached
i e rity this rooming, according to L. j
. . i;r.-vn, viirecvwr ui uic iwu ucimii-cii-l
of the board of health. This Hin
ted amount, was conserved as far as
iossible. he said, to the actual needs
of children and hospitals.
The shortage grows out of a disa
ceement between the farmers who
s-.PI.li milk and the city distirbutors
jj i Ui" price to be paid.
Borden Company Grunts Demand.
The Borden Condensed Milk com-
pj which supplies one-fifth of all
- nj k sold in this city, announced
3da r would meet the demand of the
t3ir.men s league for an increase in
iie iraes paid to formers of 45 cents
r t "0 pounds.
THREE KILLED IT
D11ITE BLAST
' afton. nL. Oct. ' Three men j
ne k ill. d and several were injured '
-fnouslv when three cars of dyna-
i
1 1 te exploded at the mill of the 1111-
ois row.ler company here today. The
-owde- mill was wrecked. The shock
. ii felt for 25 miles.
ASSIGNMENT OF STATE BANK
EXAMINERS MADE; FEW CHANGES
Austin, Texas. Oct. 5. The quarterly
.riiTtnce of state bank examiners.
1 . Id with coramiseioner of insurance
.no banking. C O. Austin, was con
'uried today and the following as
signments of examiners for the ensu
r 'inarter were announced.
J B Cheatham. Ft Worth district;
I .uie Cohn. North Dallas, o. Currin.
omby Lextll. El Paso. C. S. Ilqld
. i ts. South Dallas A. A Horne,
Beaumont; G. E Langford. Corpus
1 r-sti S. A. Longmoos. Houston; Ci
'. Manor. Brown wood Ell Marks.
V o: Eidned McKinnon, Sherman: J.
j Hoots. Austin. A. L Slaughter. Cor
irma Ira Smith. Amanllo; L. IL
S,,u.res, Wichita Falls. Paul G. Villa
ei First San Antonio: John S. Wigbt
"lan. Tyler, W. A. Williams. East San
Antonio.
l'ew changes were made in the dis-
tuctS. !
PERSONNEL OF TEXAS RIFLE
TEAM AT JACKSONVILLE GIVEN
Austin. Texas. Oct. 5. The personnel
of the Texas rifle team composed of
-lvilian members of rifle clubs, which
will attend the national matches at
Tacktonville. Fla, commencing October
II was announced today b CoL J. A.
M-CaImont. assistant adjutant general
the raptam of the team.
This is the personnel of the team:
T? IL Grierson, Marfa: Victor II Brau
ng and Davis Minsram, of the Alamo
T; fit lub. Sar Antonio. B F. Robin--nn
iKd B F. Thomson, Kingsville; E.
' Lipsiomb and Gtn. Oscar C. Gueseaz.
of fie Military Rifle club. San Antonio;
V ! Cunningham and W. W. Mon-
c-r of Aiianllo. CoL J. A. McCalmont.
" J T'eimeckv and John Callan. Aus
ti" f Giiliard. S Vaughan and
'.,..::, Brock, Lockhart
SULTAN APPROVES DEATH
PENALTY FOR ESSAD PASHA
London. Eng . Oct. 5. The -sultan has
nfirmed the sentence of eath passed
m Essad Pasha, formerly provisional
esldent of Albania, by a courtmartial.
i cording to a dispatch to Reuters. The
- 'nrt savs Essad Pasha was proved to
jve conspired against Turkey. He
'S sentenced in Constantinople in
June.
Paso Pride Should
WILSON WANTS VOTES OF WOMEN
UELT COfllMELPO;
LLSPEAKflT
G-. 0. P. Campaign Manager Wires Definite Assurance
That Colonel Will Be Here On or About October
20; Aid of Twenty Western Governors Invoked
To Secure Former President's Consent.
FTER a strenuous month's cam
A
paign, in which the aid of a
dozen western governors and
scores of prominent men were enlist
ed, the management of the Interna
tional Farm congress received assur
ance Thursday that Col. Theodore
Roosevelt will speak in El Paso during
the week of the congress.
The word that CoL Koosevelt had
decided to come to El Paso was re
ceived by W. I. Drummond. chairman
of the board of governors of the farm
congress and the International Soil
Products exposition, in a message
from William R. Willcox. the chairman
of the Republican national campaign
headquarters in New York city. It is
expected the colonel will be here on
October 19. 20 or 21 on one of the three
days on which the farm congress will
be in session It is possible. Mr Drum
mond said Thursday, that Mr. Koose
veils luneittr uia. ucuij ilia diutui ;
a dav or so. but his attendance during ,
congress week has t.een pledged. ,
.. ... j.i-.. i ..t....i i
Result of Hard WorK. i
Persistent "hammtrniE" on the part
of the congress officials- finally suc
ceeded In enlisting CoL Roosevelt's in
terest in visiting tbe city during- the
farm congiess The board of gover
nors about a month ago extended an
mitatton to the e-preident to come
here, but the colonel emphatically an
nounced that hf would be unable to
visit the southwest thi -ir Later it
was announced that he w.uld take
ftlMKIE
II DEFEATED
Encircled By Bulgars, They
Run For Danube Bridge
and Find It Burned.
London. Eng.. Oct. 5. The invasion
of Bulgaria by Rumanian troops which
crossed the Danube in the rear of the
main battle line in Dobrudja has ended
disastrously, according to Sofia.
The Bnlcrariaiui sent troops from !
either side of the point of crossing. '
Caught between two forces, the Ru
manians are said to haTe made for
their pontoon bridge, which they found
destroyed by Austrian monitors. Sofia
also reports the repulse of all Russian
and Rumanian attempts to advance on
the Dobrudja front.
On the western end of the Mace
donian front, the Servians are press
ing northward toward Monastir. They
have reached the town of Buf, 1 miles
below Monastir. according to Paris.
Tbe Bulgarian statement declares
the Servians along the line to the east J
were roiled m attempts 10 aavance.
A repulse for the British beyond the
Struma is reported.
BRITISH NAVAL0FFICERS
WONDER ABOUT THE BREMEN
London. Eng Oct. 5. British naval
authorities are expressing great inter
est in the whereabouts of the German
marchant submarine, long over due in
sn American port The officers are
asking whether it is possible the Bre
men has put into sonu obscure Ameri
can port.
This inquirv by British naval au
thorities would seem to dispose of the
recent rumors that the Bremen had
been captured and was in a British
port, her crew having been taken cap
tive. BERLIN IS EXPERIENCING
A SHORTAGE OF FOOD
London. Kng.. Oct. 5. Great diffi
culty is being experienced in provis
ioning Berlin, according to the Socialist
newspaper Vorwaerts, of that city, as i
quoted by Renter's Amsterdam corres- i distinguished themselves In the fight
pondent. The potato supply is said to ,K for this position, the statement
have been stopped during the last few adds, and the Bulgarians are reported
days. ae to lacK oi lauorers. Decrease ,
in the milk supply is the subject of
anxious discussions.
According to this information there!
has been a great rush to tbe soup ' Berlin. Germany. Oct. S Desperate
kitchens, which now distribute 11,000 . attacks by the Russians are continuing
rwirtinn. .lailr I on the Austro-German front west of
I Lutsk in Volhynia. the war office an
nounced todav. At the onlj point at
which thev reached the Teuton lines
ON ENEMY IN VOLHYNIA I north of Zubilno. they were subse-
. quently driven out-
Petrograd. Russia, OcL S Progress
for the Russians in their attacks on in .: ltl W TROOP CI.XIU
Austro-German forces from Volhynia to IIWi: II M.TKII I.I.I l
south to the Dniester in Galicia, is re- j Sofia Bulgaria, Oct. 5. Bulgarian
corded by the war office today. Hostile
positions at -various points have tx-en
captured, the statement declares.
PARTI.1 vrMi ZKPPKI.IN
IS SKBV OFF M'IILi:sIi;
Esbjerg. Denmark. Oct. 5. Fisher
men who arrived here V ednesday re
ported that at noon Monday th-v
sighted a partly submerged zeppehn
31 miles northwest of island of Sv It
in the North sea. off the coast of
Schleswig Severil German d-strov -ers
and two larpe vessel: wer sur
roundlnir the Zeppelin the ftherm u
said, in an att mpt to keep her afloat.
FflRM GDNGRESSl
- western tour of the northern tier of
states, out wouia not oe seni wuin.
Despite this apparent discourage
ment. Mr. Drnmnond did not let the
matter drop and s-nt hundreds of tele
grams to his friends among the public
men of the west urging that tbey add
their own influence to bring the colonel
to the .southwest. Finally, on Sept.
:2. Mr. Willcox wired: "Your telegram
of Sept. 22 received, and we sh.uld be
glad to give every consideration to
our request-"
Roosevelt GIirK In.
This was follow, d Thursday by a
telegram that Col. Roosevelt had defi
nitelv decided to accept Kl Paso's in
vitation. Among the continuous fire
of telegrams wnkn Mr Drummond
showered upon the national republi
can headquarters in New York was one
which read-
"Soldier boys want Roosevelt. They
are entitled to hear him."
Another telegram read: "In sched
uling CoL Roosevelt's western trip we
rt.. rtiar vnn include r.i t'aso aunnK
-r..- - - ., i -
holding of International Farm congress 1
and International Soil products expo- ,
smuu m-v. j, -v or - """""-" I
linequaieu to aouress rciicacni.ii :
farmers and others from 20 states. AI-
n sn nnn national guardsmen, repre- i
sentative citisens of many states No
similar opportunity available 5 ,
entire campaign Lrse you ao ni m-
look its- impurtaiKH and value."
It is believed that the already large j
crowds assured for the exposition will
h greatly augmented o the announce-
ni nt of the ' olonel's forthcoming visit '
. i
iDiHE
Fleet Cooperates in Routing
Turks "West of Trebi-
zond, Says Petrograd.
Petrograd. Russia. Oct. 5. Suddenly
rxmrninsr their offensive in TurKisn
! Armenia, west of Trebizond. the Rus
sians, with the cooperation of the
! fleet, have inflicted a severe defeat
nnnn the Turks, moving forward along
a wide front, the war office announced
today. A fortified position In the
river Karaburnum reg'on had been
captured and great losses inflicted
upon the Turks.
The statement says:
"On the Caucasus front our detach
ments by a sudden resumption of the
offensive and cooperation of the fleet
in the coastel region, advanced on a
wide front, capturing a fortified enemy
position in the region of the river
Kara Burnu.
-West of Kalkit-Tchivtlik. our ad
rinwi rwistK hroke through the Turk
ish advanced guards, influted great
losses upon them, captured prisoners.
arma rnrtridi'Mi ana eauiiiiunii an'.
destroyed earthworks and tremhes in
the enemy's rear."
RUSSIANS TAKE SIX GUNS;
RUMANIANS GET SEVEN
Petrograd. Russia. Oct 5 Six can
non have be-n captured by the Rus
sian!, in prosecuting their offensive
movement with the Rumanians against
the Teutonic allies, todav war office
I bulletin announces. This capture ot ,
guns was in addition to seven taken by
the Rumanians i ne iaiemeni aom.
"During the raid on Tuesda by ene--nv
seaplanes in the Haiti- one of the
hostile aircraft landed and was cap
tured by us near the island of Runo.
in the gulf of Riga "
BRITISH CAPTURET0WN
IN GREEK MACEDONIA
London. Eng.. Oct. 5. British troops
Wednesday morning captured the entire
tow-n of Yenikeui. a village in Greek
Macedonia which lies two miles to the
east of the Struma river, says the
nritisk nfictal statement issued todav.
ttih and Irish battalions especially
to have suffered heaw losses
- - I
lli'.ssi.. iHK IIHM'HH Ti:M
A1T.IKI(; OKHIIAX LINKS
tioops havi heen successful in halting
attempted advances of entente forces
in stveial sectors of the Macedonia
front the war office announced.
INFANT IS DROWNED IN
BIG IRRIGATION DITCH
ztec, X M.. Oct. 5. Isabel, the 1H
month old daughter of Mr and Mrs.
Chance I'ufur. wa drowned in the big
ditch alot the fanulv residence, on
th old Tom M';ee i inch
li i .tippo.'-ed that th.- mfant was
nl.ivri.: itli .i dop and stepped too
o- ' to the ditch.
Insure a
TUIPDSTl;
"THINKS CHEERS
SHDWINTLWT IU
ELECT H
President Reaches Omaha to
Deliver Addresses and
Join In Parade.
FEELS SPIRIT OF
PUBLIC HOLIDAY
100,000 People Turn Out to
Greet President and See
Celebration.
OMA1
2
MAHA. Xeb.. Oct. 3. President
ilson told a large crowd here
and at Council Bluffs today he
wished women could vote. Appearing
on the rear platform of his private car
en route here he was greeted with
shouts that "we are going to vote for
you everybody." A woman called out:
I wish the women could vote."
"I wish they could. the president
responded "It is mighty fine for you
to come out and greet me this way. It
cheers me very much. This Is sub
.'' , T "
stantial evidence that you are going to
Three Siiccrhes On Program.
President Wilson came to Omaha for
on of the busiest days of his career.
rnving here shortly before noon, after
greeting several thousand people, he
went immediately to the Commercial
iuo tor nis iirst western speecn sincc
the opening of the campaign. Later his
program called for two more speeches
and participation in a parade syraboliz- ,
ing .NeorasKa 3 nistory. neved o -nave pensneo, ana an assist-
S cheering erjwp of thousands, of. j ant-Je Vho Jumped from- an -upper
people gathered from all parts of St- ', , . . ... , ..
braska and neighboring states greet- j window, was seriously hurt. In addl
ed the president on his arrival and con- tion. 17 to 30 firemen were- hurled Into
tinned 'the- applause as he proceeded J Km. -.-.i ... . ,.,., ,
through the struts in an automobile. ' a clement ad s"e y hen
A non-partisan committee officially
i welcomed the president and Mrs. Wit
ort to Omaha
I See Indian and Cowboys.
Because of the Ak-Sar-Ben celebra
tion of Nebraska's admission to state
hood. Omaha was in gala attire. Flags
decorated the buildings and bands of
music played almost constantly The
president immediately entered into the
spirit of the occasion. Bands of In
dians and of cowboys were here to
participate in the parade. It was esti
mated fullv 100.000 people lined th
streets.
President Wilson, penetrating the
middle west Wednesday received noisy
welcomes from many thousand per
sons in Ohio. Indiana and Illinois. lie
far.X'sfopSer.?.:!
lions were pacxea, at several places
hands plaved and frequently the presi
dent remarked on the cordiality.
Refusing to turn his trip into a
speech making tour, the president nev
ertheless kept up a running fire of re
marks at every stop. Interest among
those who spoke to him centered most
about the eight hour law for railroad t
emploves.
lioo llnMineio). lien at Luncheon.
President Wilson was received with
enthusiastic applause wben he entered
the Commercial club, where SO0 Omaha
business men were gathered Mr. Wil
son sat between Gov. Moorehead and
senator Hitchcock. The lunch room
was decorated with American flacs.
Outside the club, a band played patri
otic music
Shjh merlca Can Lend World.
"The time has come." the president
said, "when America has had thrust
upon her the necessity of serving the
world.
That alters our commercial prob
lems and. in fact, all our problems. The I
men who insist on doing things in the ,
old way will be pushed to tbe rear.- i
The president said that It used to be J ..heaer- ,n,i founded an alleged medl
thought right to exploit the world, but . . -omDanv ln w :.. ne goM stock.
n.w it
was necessary to serve the
world.
"America can lead the world if she
will onlv see the way." he added.
PraNe Federal lleerr Act.
The president declared he knew how
I the federal reserve act and the trade
commision act were conceived and he
knew thev created a situation under
vhich American business men could
succeed, if able.
Mr. Wilson said he knew men who
had on their shoulders "merely knots
to keep them from raveling out." Such
men never succeed, he declared.
He added that he knew some such
men in politics who kept working over
old Ideas.
RI5RFF MAN 15 VII I VX.
BIOBCC MA 13 R.1LLLD,
TVJQ HURT IN AUTO CRASH
Bibee. A-iz., Oct. o. John Clone, a
night watchman, w. killed and Stapley
Watson and Wilfred Clone badly
shaken up when a nautomobile in which
thev were riding turned turtle on what
is known as the divide road. Clone is
survived by two daughters, Mrs. Stan
lev Walton and Mrs. E. J. Bowden .of
Los Angeles, and a son. Wildred. who
na with him in the wreck.
f IKTERNATIQUAL SDILl
IzSl n piAo-wiS-t
en
tl- KAOW I m
TEXAS j i
OCTOBER g5
14 TO 26 ' S5
1916 z
r-S
5s
Ultt
od
"c
tt I UFtnIWti Cf lilt IWf
pLEPHAHT BUHE DArffi
Strong Local Showing At the
1110,19 DM
ZINCTRUSTALLEGED TO EXPST
1
i
San Roberto Company Institutes Civil Proceedings in j
District Court, Charging That Mexican Company !
and Others Have Agreed to Keep Down the
Price and Purchases of Zinc Ore.
THE existence of a zinc "trust" In
the United States, with ramifica
tions in Mexico, is charged in a
suit for Jl.SOt.ftOS damages filed Thurs
day In the 41st district court. The
plaintiff is the San Roberto Mining
company and the defendant is the Com
pania. Itinera y Compradora de Metales
Mexicans, S. A.
Says Price 'Wan Held Down.
The San Roberto company charges
that the alleged "trust" has entered
into an agreement to limit purchases of
zinc ore and to hold the price down to
111
ton. It is charged that $30 a
ton
the price that should be paid
for zinc ore. and that during the last unlawful intent to monopolize the xinc
year the San Roberto company has business. ' The suit is based on the
lost $600.i because of the pact to , federal act to "protect commerce
limit the price paid. Damages for three agalnit unlawful restraints and mo
tlmes this amount, a total of 51.S00.O00. no polies.
17FI1EMLLINT0FL1ES
raLLEHLUNED
T LOUIS. Mo. Oct 3 Fire today
destroyed the main building of
Christian Brothers' college here
I today. Two aged members of the col-
leE taealty are missing and are be
Kiiiea.
Leaps From Fifth Story Window.
Tbe two faculty members missing
are brother Cormac. 93 years old. and
brother Clemens. 75 jears old. Their
room on the fifth floor of the Infirm
ary was swept by flames, and it Is not
thought either could have escaped. The
assistant nurse who was injured was
Lewis Nolean. who jumped from a fifth
story window in the mfirmirv It is
DOCTOR FLOWER
Noted Mine Promoter, Pat-'
ent Medicine Man, Ex
Preacher, Drops Dead.
New Tork. Oct. 5. Dr. Richard C
Flower. known throughout the country
for stock selling operations from which
he was credited with having netted
more than $1,000,009. dropped dead in
a Hoboken theater Sunday night. It be
came known when relatives identified
the body.
Flower, who operated under many
aliases, was in turn lawver. preacher,
"healer" and "alchemist," with a secret
for the manufacture of rubies, and was
also a mine operator in Mexico
He was the son of a country cler
gyman and was graduated from North
western university in 1S6. He prac-
,Ict. l-w- in the middle west and later
.ntred the ministrv there. When the
-rf-i..-.. .n-.i him. he turned
At the time or nis last arrest in 10-
ronto In 1914. Flower had been a fugi
tive from justice nearly IS years. He
was liberated Ausust 1, last, from the
Black well island penitentiary and
since then had lived in Bayonne. N. J.
GIRL'S BODY FOUND IN
LAGOON; MURDER IS BELIEF
Chicago. HL, Oct. 5. The identity of
the well dressed young woman, whoso
bruised body was found in a lagoon in
Jackson park Wednesday night, re
mained a mystery today.
Police believe the victim was slain,
possibly by robbers, as the pendants of
her earrings were missing, only the
gold clasps being fastened to the lobes
of the ears.
Bruises on the body of the victim
t ; vears of
A he. .tenet,
d been struck
who apparently was abou
.va lj4tia Al1 tliaff 1A lutaijf
.L J rSL "--" ""Y
wiin nHinm-r. ntr nwr aim riuv
temple were bruised and discolored.
The police are working on the theory i
that the victim possibly was thrown
from an automobile into the lagoon.
Examination disclosed that the woman
had been expecting to become a mother.
SAN FRANCIS(TaND JAPAN
CONVERSE BY WIRELESS
San Francisco. Calif., Oct. 5 Wire
less waves spanned the Pacific ocean
today when the San Francisco Marconi
wireless telegraph station was in direct
communication with a Japanese gov
ernment wireless plant at Ochiishi, Ja
pan. 5800 mile awav.
The "conversation" was one of a
series of suo-essful tests being carried
on preliminarv to in luguration of a
wireless omineioial service.
Previoiil Honolulu relayed wireless
message" b. twrtr .I.ip.m and the United
States.
SEE SDIT FILED,
and counsel fees of $1M.M4. are de
manded. The San Roberto company has Its
properties in Zacateeas. It charges that
the companies encased in the unlawful
combination are. besides the Campania
Minera y Compradora de Metales Mex
icans. S A . the American Metal com
pany, the Compania Minera de Penoles.
S. A . the Compania Minerales y Met
ales. S. c.. the Empire Zinc company,
the Granhy Mining company, and sev
eral other concerns in the United States
and Mexico.
"Inlawfnl Intent Charged.
Toe complaint sets forth that the
liefVndant companies have secured con-
trol of the markets in the United States
for zinc ores and are operating Tith
thought that his Injuries will prove
fatal.
Floor Falls With Firemen.
About noon the fourth floor 'at the
college hulldinc: coliansed and' 17-to 20
f iMmSn plunged to the basement. Tjhreajl
others in the wreckage were belHrved
dead or Injured.
Lous 'lore Than $300,000.
The loss is estimated at more thas
JSM.Os. Cm the roof of tbe building
was one of the most elaborate wireless
stations in the United States. Two
wings of the building were saved and
the part destroyed was the central sec
tion the original college building.
HUNDREDS IRE HOMELESS
AFTER FIRE I.V MICniGA.V
Mendon. Mich.. Oct. j The greater
part of this village was in ruins to
day and several hundred persons were
homeless a the result of a fire which
last mht t aus-d $230. j0" loss
DIES SUDDENLY
CALIFORNIA VOLCANO
IS AGAIN IN ERUPTION
Redding, Calif.. Oct 5. Lassen peak ; provided, but the cavalry troops would
was in eruption two hours today, require more time.
spouting steam and smoke from the i The units affected by the war de
northern part of the crater. Lassen partment orders are two full battalions
peak erupted May 31. 1914, after years
of sleep
Figures on Herald's Circulation
TWICE a year the United States government by law requires a statement
of the circulation of daily newspapers covering the six months periods
ending respectively on April 1 and October 1. No penalty attaches to
making a false statement even under oath in this matter, and the advertising
public is still obliged to judge as to the responsibility, the general standing
and reputation of the newspaper making the statement. A sworn statement of
circulation made to the government under this law is not necessarily trtie
False circulation statements have been made to the government repeatedly
by certain newspapers, but the government takes no effective steps to ascertain
the truth or to punish tbe individual making false oath in this connection.
Consequently it remains with the advertiser to satisfy himself by personal
investigation or by other suitable means, whether a newspaper's circulation
statement to the government is true or false.
Following is The Herald's statement to the government under date of
October 3. 11. showing an average daily NET PAID circulation for the six
months of 24.447
STATKMENT OK TI1K OIVNKKMII1. MANAGEMENT. CIRC CLATIOX. ETC., REQrlRED
111 TIIK ACT Ol CONCHES3 OF Al'GlsT Zt. 1913.
Of El Pao H.raM pnb'ishrd daily at Ell P mso. Texas, for October i. 1S18
State of Texas. County of El Paso. sa.
Bff,rV"'.. a BO,,T? P"bHc in and for the State and coanty aforesaid, pwonay ap
peared H. I Slater ho oarinc been duly ,w-orn arrordias to law. deposes and says that
? 7? the editor of The El Paw Herald, and that the foIlowiBC U. to the best of
his knowledge and belief a true statement of the ownership, management (and If a dal r
paper, tbe circulation) etc. of the aforesaid puh.uation for tbe date shown in the above
caption, required by the Act of August 14. 1S12. embodied in aactieu 442. Postal Laws and
lUgalatlon. printed on the reverse of this form. tirlt
1- That the names and addresses of the publuber. editor managing editor and busi
ness managers are.
Publisher. HerVEfNeCo. n.-orooeated Pi?fS:? 'J"
Editor and Managing Editor. H D Slater
Busnass Manager. J. C. Wilma-th
-, """ ,hr o"" are (ijlve names anj addresses of mdi1uual owners, or If a cor-
t poratlon. give Hi name anil the names and addrees of stockhoid.rs owning or holding 1
55." ?f """ of ,h ,0,al -moonl of sto. k.) H D Slate-. J r- wilmar'b. H. L Cape .
vv'iJ B'..S,Vn, J. A- Smith. J. J Mundy Waters Dav - M - McOlennon Estate,
--"- - " - w vuwiiuiie, t, ncraivi pwb o.
3. That the kmwn bond holder iMrtrim o... ...... .... i 1.1 '.
noldlag 1 percent or more of otal amount of
5??5. thJ,J J1"? '? ','LCn "r?Vble to
? J 7. "?M ,"rl'"a"v throngb bankers and
eluding St. Loui, Chi. ago ..rand Rapids. New
;""l"rl"l" mi. ago ..rand Kaplds. New
'"flira. u c . anu pringiieia n . a lew w-re sold In E! Pao oth.r securtues he d br
Firt Xvtlonal Birk of F.l p. and Goes Printing Press Co of can-are
' Sr L ,. p-vrirrv, n next above
.J J """"r' " " ""vara nw oniy me us or stocshold.-rs and seruntv holders
they appear upon the book, of the company but also, ln ca-- where the stockhn Jer or
security holder appears upon the books of the company as truetee or in any other tidue'ary
relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such truv. Is acting is glven
also IBM tlw said two paragraph contain statements embracing affiant's full know ejgs
and belief as to the circumstance and conditions o rider which sto. khofders and secar-y
holder who do not appear upon the hoek of the company as trustee-., hold stetk and se
. urities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner: and this affiant has no reasoa
to relieve that any other person, association, or corporation has anv interest direct or in 1
rect In th8 said stock, bonus, or other securities than as o stated b him.
. .- That the average number of opie of each iue of this publication sold or dlstr'b.
uted through the malls or otherwise to paid ub.. ribers during the stx month- preceding
th dal. -hown ibove I- 24 44T This Information Is required from daily publications only.v
H D Suiter. Editor.
Sworn to and suhsenbed before me this rhlrd day of -t-r TSK
'S,I-1 P tv Still Notary Public
(My commission expires June 1. 1317)
NOTE The Herald is the only El Paso newspaper that is a member
of the Audit Bureau of Circulations and that submits to an annual audit by
that preat national association: The Herald is th.- only El Paso paper that
Mipports its Po-tofficr statement by an A. B C. juuit.
Last Regiments Are To Star!
For Border As Soon As
Trains Can Be Secured,
MANY COMING
TO EL PASO
Arrival of Fresh Contingents
Will Release the Trained
Troops To Go Home.
r-r -TASHINGTOX. D. C. Oct S- A I
A armv departmental eomman. -
J ers were ordered by the war
department today to dispatch militia,
organizations still in .state mobiliza
tion camps to the border as soon as
they can arrange for trains.
The orders affect orly troops which
have not seen service on the border,
or about S006 men In Alabama. Georgia.
Florida, North. CaroHir- South Caroli
na, Tennessee. Virginia, West Virginia,
Colorado. New Ha maps hire, New SorS;
isa MJssfesippC
Distribution of Troops.
The Nlwrth Carolina and South Ca-
' olina troops will go to El Paso to Join
.t... .I... . s m .i . .
the other commands from tha states
there. The Colorado troops will go to
Deming. N. M and the New Yorkers to
the Texas border in the Brownsville
district. The destination of the other
troops has not yet been announced.
Will Release Other Troops.
The arrival of the 8900 troops on the
border will automatically release an
equal number of troops, who will re
turn to their mobilisation camps. The
troops to return home will be desig
nated hv Mai Gen. Frederick Furson,
at San ntonio, in command of the bor
der distrct
100O Colorado Troops Ready.
Denver. Co! . Oct. J. The remain
ing units of the Colorado national
guard now encamped at the rife
range, near Golden, number approx -mately
1000 men. Batteries B and t"
field artil!-rv left for the border Sep
tember 30.
It was stated unofficially today,
upon receipt of press dispatches, that
the state infantry could entrain ip te-a
hours after railroad facilities wee
. or infantry, three troops of eaTa!-,
field hospital and signal corps.
'.'.' .'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.''"'ta Paso! Teiaa
El Paso. Texas.
Incorporated, owner.
r security holders oi
bond - mortgages or other securities re Th.
mortgages or other securities are
hearer and present ownership la unknown;
oth-rs in various citlei north and eaM. tnl
Tork Kilos Tit. . aneveille WS Wash-
Tork Kanas rny. . ane,ville tVH tVash.
giving the names f the owners stockholders.
Exposition
