I
.1
I
•I'M'Vfl
A meeting of the Civic Improvement
league was held on Saturday afternoon
in the Commercial club rooms. There
was a very good attendance. The
meeting was called to order at 3:30
by the newly-elected president, Mrs.
S. S. Tuttle. Each member present
was asked to tell of some improvement
that had been made recently in her
locality, and it is encouraging to say
that the greatest commendation was
given to the improvement of the
streets, and the making of curbs and
gutters of the most uptodate type.
Mrs. Otto Zetterberg then explained
the circulation of her petition for the
garbage ordinance and reported that
not more than a dozen objected to the
signing of the petition. The members
all expect a great improvement next
year, when the ordinance goes into
effect.
Mrs. W. E. Shrum, vice president
and chairman of the sanitation com
mittee, reported that we had no law
governing the cutting of weeds, also
that we had an ordinance regulating
the cleaning and removing of outbuild
ings on property abutting the sewer.
Mrs. Shrum urged on a more active
interest be taken in the enforcement
of the ordinance. Complaint has been
given to Mrs. Shrum about the con
dition of the toilet room at the station.
She reported that a new bowl was
much needed, and that the station au
thorities were doing all they could to
improve the conditions, She also re
ported that the children have abused
the premises of the station, making it
necessary to keep the dressing room
locked most of the time. Parents
should be more interested in keeping
their children from the station, as they
may not be awake to the fa,ct that
many children are hanging around the
station. Mrs. Shrum said in her talk
that there was a good ordinance for
cleaning the walks from snow.
Mrs. Frank White then spoke on the
topic of a clean city all the year
around, and in her remarks she said
that the city could not do all. and that
each individual household was re
sponsible for its own lawn. The side
walks, parkings and gutters, she said,
should be kept clean by the property
owners. Mrs. White said that Valley
•City was not a dirty city, but that at
present it was very "mussy," and that
•each individual, with a few days' work,
could put the city in very good order.
She urged the purchase of many new
street cans for paper and rubbish, as
there have been none purchased since
the league supplied these cans which
are now in use, many years ago. An
other question Mrs. White spoke on,
was the sweeking of the sidewalks in
the business district, and that the dirt
being swept and taken up by each
property owner would greatly improve
the general appearance as a whole.
Municipal Fly Catcher
In some cities the municipal fly
catcher is paid by the city, and is
given authority to use every means'to
exterminate flies. We are beginning
to have fly-less cities, and we would
be glad to see a municipal fly catcher
in Valley City. In some of the alleys
the big fly traps are needed even at
this time of the year.
Mrs. Tuttle, the president, mention
ed that in looking over the records,
she had found that the league had
done much good, and hoped to have a
more active interest. She also sug
gested appointing a committee to
score the yards, with the permission
of the owners, and spoke particularly
of the scoring in the spring, about
March, when the yards look bad, and
see how many could score perfect.
Delegates were then elected to the
State Federation meeting to be held
here. The delegates chosen were Mrs.
S. S. Tuttle and Mrs. Shrum.
The members felt that every citizen
will be responsible for the improved
condition of the city before the Fed
eration meeting next week.
Mrs. John Tracy not being present
in making a plea for the patronage of
the Woman's Exchange, sent the fol
lowing report for one week's sales:
200 loaves of bread.
53 dozen rolls.
41% dozen cookies.
30% dozen fried cakes.
47 cakes.
Civic ImproTement League in
Important Session on Saturday
Served an average of 18 lunches a
day at an average cost of 20 cents,
this not being even an average week,
and it will take a better average sale
to make expenses.
Mrs. John Ferguson, of Long Prairie,
Minn., who was going through the city
today in-company with her husband,
met with an accident which necessi
tated her being taken to the Riverside
hospital.' Mrs. Ferguson was riding
"horseback and the horse tripped and
the rider fell off on the curb, and
suffered a broken leg. She was taken
to the officers of Dr. Macdonald, where
she received medical treatment later
she was taken to the hospital.
Rev. Willard Crosby Lyon returned
to the city on Thursday evening from
Hankinson, where he had been attend
ing the three days' session this week
of the annual state conference of the
Congregational churches. At the
conference Rev. Lyon was elected to
the executive committee of five of the
board of directors, which is the most
important committee of the conference
and which meets four times a year in
different parts of the state.
George Mason left on Saturday eve
ning for Chicago and Waukegon, 111.,
after spending the past week in the
city at the home of his father, Sim
Mason. Albert Mason, who has also
been making a visit of several days
here at his home, left Tuesday oil No.
4 for Chicago. Albert represented the
Chalmers Automobile company, and
.has been with them (or the past few
years.
SCHINDLER SA'LE OCT 7.
The William Schindler sale that is
to be held north of Orlska Saturday,
Oct. 7, has been well advertised and
should be well attended. Mr. Schind
ler has good offerings and no doubt
bargains will be plentiful. He has
made arrangements for the comfort of
a large crowd and we hope he will not
be disappointed.
FARMERS PAY VAST
SUMS FOR LABOR
"The farmers of North Dakota paid
114,141,640.46 for farm labor during
1915," is a statement issued by T. L.
Stanley, of the United States depart
ment of labor, co-operating with Com
missioner Flint, of the state depart
ment.
"This is enough to show the im
portance of the labor problem within
this state, but the serious part of this
is that by far the greatest part of the
money was taken out of the state by
an itinerant class of labor, that left
little in return.
"This amount is equal to the Value of
all the school property of the state
for the same year. It is more than
twice as much as was expended for
the support of the schools of the
state. That a systematic means of
handling of this labor is an import
ant necessity and that farm
ers will co-operate in making this one
of the important factors in their farm
management is evidenced by the in
terest which has been shown by both
progressive farmers in the state and
progressive laborers who seek per
manent labor herein. Much good
will result from such a program if
under the direction of the federal gov
ernment working in conjunction with
the state and county farm exchange
bureaus. This will bring a more con
tented, more reliable and permanent
farm laborer who will become a great
asset to the state and who will be
willing to aid in diversified farming."
How Road and Bridge
Expenditures Increase
Washington, Oct. 2.—Rapid increase
in total expenditures for roads and
bridges, growth of building and main
tenance activities under state super
vision, and a sharp decrease in the
proportion of contributions in the
form of statute labor mark the devel
opment of highway work in the Unit
ed States during the past 12 years.
These facts are brought out by statis
tics for the calendar year 1915 recent
ly compiled by the offlce of public
roads and rural engineering of the U.
S. department of agriculture.
The total length of public roads in
the United States outside the limits
of incorporated towns and cities was
about 2,452,000 miles on Jan. 1, 1916.
Of this, about 277,000 miles, or 11.3
per cent, were improved with some
form of surfacing. The mileage of
surfaced roads has been increasing at
the rate of about 16,000 miles a year,
and in 1915 approximately one-half of
this increase was made under the su
pervision of state highway depart
ments. In addition these departments
supervised the maintenance of nearly
52,000 miles of main and trunk line
roads.
The increase in expenditures for
road and bridge work in the United
States has been from approximately
$80,000,000 per year in 1904 to about
$282,000,000 in 1915, an increase of
more than $53,000,000. In addition,
more than $27,000,000 of local funds
was spent under state supervision in1
1915, bringing the total road and'
bridge expenditures managed by the
states to $80,514,699. This amount is
greater than the total expenditures
for roads and bridges from all sources
in 1904.
The growth in importance of the
state highway departments has been
rapid. The first of these agencies
was created in 1891 in New Jersey
and now some form of highway depart
ment exists in every state except In
diana, South Carolina, and Texas.
Since their inception these
depart-1The
ments had expended to Jan. 1,1916, an
aggregate of $265,350,825 in state
funds foar road and bridge construe-1
tion, maintenance and administration,
They had constructed over 50,000
miles of roads in co-operation with
the states. More than 40,000 miles of
these roads were surfaced.
The falling off in the value of road
work performed by statute and con
vict labor was from $20,000,000 in 1904,
when the total road expenditures were
^30,000,000, to tabout $15,000,000 i#i
1915, when the total expenditures had
grown to $282,000,000. This was a re-,
duction from 25 per cent of the total
in the former year to less than five
and a half per cent of the total in 1915.
An increase in the use of better and
more expensive types of roads also is
shown by the recently compiled sta
tistics. This development has been
due, in large part, to the great in
crease in automobile traffic. It is
estimated that there are now approxi
mately 2 and a half million automo
biles in use on the roads of the coun
try, or one car for every mile of road.
This present motor traffic is in excess
of traffic of all sorts 12 years ago.
The cash road and bridge expendi
tures of the United States averaged
only $28 per mile of rural roads in
1904. In 1915 this average had. grown
to $109 per mile. New Jersey led all
other states both in 1904 and in 1915
with $221 and $475 per mile respec
tively. Nevada made the least expen
diture in both years—$3.72 per mile in
.1904 and. $17 per„ mile ln 1915
Three Autos in Bad
Spill at Jamestown
Mrs. Portermain was thrown, out
and the muscles of her left side were
severely strained. Mr. Portermain
escaped unhurt. Walter Smith, riding
in the rear seat, made an aerial dive
and landed 15 feet from the machine,
Thrown violently against the hood
of the automobile which her husband
was driving when their machine col
lided with an automobile driven by
Walter Bohn of this city, at 7 o'clock
last evening near Highland Home
cemetery, Mrs. James Buchanan, of
Buchanan, was rushed to this city be
lieved to be suffering injuries which
would prove fatal, but which proved
later not so alarming and which per
mitted her return to her home.
In Buchanan automobile party
were Miss Stella Johnson and Miss
Kelley, teacher in the public schools
at Buchanan, and Miss Lillian Zin
theo, of Fargo, principal of the pub
lic schools at Pingree. With Mr. and
Mrs. James Buchanan the three teach
ers were making the trip to James
town for the purpose of getting Miss
Stella Buchanan, teacher in the city
schools, to return with them to Buc
hanan to spend the week-end. In the
machine driven by Walter Bohn, of
this city, and owned by G. S. Bouer,
of Melville, were Frank Tony and C.
F. Peterson, both of this city. None
of the latter party was hurt.
When half a mile north of Highland
Home cemetery the Buchanan party
noticed an auto in the ditch and Mr.
Buchanan slowed down his car and
called the girls to look to see if there
was any one lying on the ground near
the car. He saw the approaching car
coming at high speed and pulled out
of the road to the extreme west side
of the road and had almost brought his
car to a stop when the approaching
car came in sight over a rise and
seemingly not under control. The car
kept to the road until close to them
when it diverged suddenly and struck
their car.
Miss Johnson was thrown clear of
the car, but escaped without injury,
Misses Zintheo and Kelley were
thrown to the bottom of the car and
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
The front wheels locked and the
car was carried back nearly a hundred
feet before Mr. Buchanan's car drop
ped a front wheel to the ground and
turned around. The wind shield was
broken, one light and the running
board torn off and the front spring
broken.
Mrs. Buchanan was thrown vio
lently into the cowl of the car and
badly bruised and her temple cut.
While her bruises are severe she was
able to be up and about this morning.
Mr. Buchanan, who was driving, es
caped without bruises or injuries.
VOL. XXXVI—NO. 23. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916. (This Issue Twelve Pages) ESTABLISHED 1879
Jamestown, Sept.. 30.—Three wreck-1
ed automobiles is the result of two
serious accidents Friday atternoon and
evening on the road one niiie north of
Highland cemetery.
The first accident occurred shortly
after noon yesterday when the steer
ing wheel went out of commission on
the auto driven by S. E. Portermain.!
He was traveling about 15 miles an
hour when the device went wrong and
the car swung into the ditch.
One front wheel and an axle of the
car were broken. Failure to have the
brakes on the machine in working
order is given as the cause of the ac
cident. I
The second accident was the col-1
lision between the Buchanan and the
auto driven by Walter Bohn, which oc
curred 50 feet from the Portermain
mishap.
1
fortunately escaped injury.
Banker Andrew McKay and wife, of
Pingree, came along at this time in
he a an to ok ha an an
Miss Kelley to Jamestown, where Mrs.
Buchanan's injuries were attended to
at once. Soon afterwards Mr. Cooty
and Fred Stark, of Jamestown, arrived
in Mr. Cootey's car and took the re
mainder of the party to Jamestown.
Later Mr. Stark drove Mr. and Mrs.
Buchanan and party to their home at
Buchanan.
BALFOUR MAN'S HAND IS
MANGLED IN SILO CUTTER
Balfour, Oct. 3.—W. I. Miller had
his hand badly lacerated while help-'
ing Martin Meyer fill his silo. Mr.
Miller was cutting bands and feeding'
the cutter, when the man pitching to
him accidentally struck his arm with a
Votes for Women League
Will Meet in Valley City
The annual meeting of the North
Dakota Votes for Women league will
be held in Valley City Friday, Oct. 13.
I Mrs. Walter McNab Miller, of Miss
ouri, first vice president of the Na
,tional Suffrage association, will be the
speaker of the evening.
Mrs. Miller is a charming southern
woman and to hear her speak will be
a. pleasure. ..
Fire Marshal Writes
About Fire Prevention
Offlce of Fire Marshal, Bismarck,
N. D.
Oct. 9, 1916, has been set apart by
proclamation of Hon. L. B. Hanna,
governor of our state, as Fire Preven
tion Day, and those of us who are en
gaged in fire prevention work know
what a great benefit it would be to all
our citizens if they would take heed
of this proclamation, and if not con
venient to devote a whole day to the
matter of fire prevention, at least a
portion of the day to the inspection
of their places of business. Every
home, be it ever so humble, and this
applies to the rural districts, includ
ing farm houses, barnes, granaries and
all other buildings, should have a gen
eral cleaning up, and as the long, cold
winter is about to come upon us, look
over the stoves and heating plants,
carefully inspect the pipes leading
through partitions and walls and
thorough inspection of chimneys and
flues. REMEMBER THIS, that dur
ing the year ending June 30, 1915, the
fire loss reported to the fire marshal's
office givinfi as the cause "defective
chimneys" alone amounted to over
$192,000.00.
Prevention Continued
The best authorities we have in the
United States give us the startling in
formation that from 65 to 71 per cent
of all fires occurring within a year are
easily preventable. Just think that
over, Mr. Citizen, and harken to this!
Much has been said, and much is yet
to be said by all statesmen about pre
paredness, and the same has been dis
cussed by every citizen of our repub
lic. A great amount of money, almost
too great to be comprehended by the
individual, has been appropriated for
preparedness. The annual fire losses
per annum in these United States
States amounts in round numbers to
something over 250 millions of dollars.
Add to this the 315 millions appropri
ated for preparedness and you will
see that the amount is about 600 mil
lions, and then ask yourself what
share of this amount falls on you.
Why should we spend so much
money and human force and energy in
fighting fires after they have been
started? Why not give more atten
tion to preventing them? This de
partment could cite hundreds of in
stances of bringing some particular
case to the attention of the public.
But why should not we, as men and
women, grasp this great question that
causes such loss of life and property
in our own state and enter with a
heart into the active study of fire pre
vention. The children in the school
can be made a great factor in the pre
vention of fire. They are apt, aggres
sive and earnest, just as soon as you
prove to them the worth of their ef
forts.
One city in this state, during a giv
en period, gives each pupil in the city
school a slip of paper with a dozen
questions as to the best method of
preventing fires, and each child that
returns the slip with at least five or
more questions answered by himself
and signed by his parents receives a
free ticket to a good moving picture
show. Some of us older ones could
learn lessons from these little slips of
paper if we were to consult them.
Fire Departments
Encouragement should be given to
our small city and village fire depart
ments, but, we are sorry to say, just
the opposite sometimes exists, and in
some of the small cities and villages
the governing body is found hostile to
the fire department up to the time
their property is endangered by fire,
and for the time the volunteer fire
men, who by the way, have no proper
ty interest in the same, comes forward
and in many instances proves himself
a hero. You have seen it yourselves
many times. Encourage the local fire
department. Some fire department
headquarters in some of our small
cities and villages are a disgrace.
The city in many instances has both
a day and night man on the pay roll
who has a hard time to put in his
time. They should keep this most im
portant branch of the city or village
government in good shape. See to it,
Mr. Citizen, that your fire department
stations and equipment are in good
repair and well housed. This is fire
prevention.
Great care should be exercised in
places where oils and gasoline come
in contact with old rags, waste or
absorbent material. Numerous in
stances might be cited where fires
have started in homes just after the
floors had been oiled, the origin in
each case having proven to be the
mops or cloths which had been used
to apply the oil and then deposited in
a closed closet or corner, where they
ignited.
1
fork and his hand was pushed into the.
carrier, and pulled into the cutter.
machine was stopped as soon as,
possible, but not in time to save Mr.
Miller's hand from being badly cut
and mangled. Three of his fingers
were all but amputated, and the hand
was otherwise bruised and cut.
MET WITH PECULIAR ACCIDENT
James Boyle, living on a farm near
Balfour, was the victim of a peculiar
accident. He was leading a cow when
he noticed a colt entangled in the
fence. He tied the cow to the gate
and went to extricate the colt. On
his return, in crawling through the
bars of the gate, the cow giving way
and catching Mr. Boyle. Owing to
the lower bars giving way, he was
prevented from being. crushed to
de^th, but as it was, suffered several
fractured ribs and internal injuries.
The railroads in our state are doing
much to prevent loss of life by acci
dent and fire by their "safety first"
movement, yet a few mornings ago
the writer discovered a fire being
started in a stove in a railroad depot
by one of the employes pouring oil
from an open receptable into the stove
to start a flre. This was not "safety
first."
It should be af reflection on a man's
business ability, whether he be a
business man or farmer, to have to be
warned to clean up and remove haz
ardous conditions so as to lessen the
danger from fire.
Doors to Open Outward
Our laws provide that all doors
shall open outward (see the law) yet
countless school boards and others
charged with enforcing the laws of
our state deem it an instrusion on
their rights when they are notified to
change the doors so as to comply with
the law. Again I ask, is this fire
prevention?
See to it that the above law is fully
complied with so that we may feel
that we have done our very best to
make the lives of others safe.
Fourth of July
Owing to thtf great stress laid upon
fires and explosions occurring on this,
our greatest national holiday, and by
MI NOT MAKING IMPROVEMENTS
Minot, Oct. 3.—Contracts for pub
lic improvements in the city were let
by the city commissioners at their ses
sion last night aggregating a total of
$33,276.37. These include the erection
of the white way for 121 additional
posts, water mains,' storm sewers,
street grading and cement gutter con
struction.
Next Tuesday evening each of the
state committees of the State Federa
tion of Woman's clubs will meet at
dinner and discuss their plans for the
coming year. Following are the names
of the committees, and the places at
which they will be entertained: Lit
erary and library committee, Mrs. J.
Van Houten conservation committee,
Mrs. Robert Anderson legislation
committee, Mrs. L. S. Platou civics
committee, Miss Winsted landmarks
committee, Mrs. D. S. Ritchie indus
trial and social conditions committee,
Mrs. L. B. McMullen educational
committee, Mrs. W. M. Wemett art
committee, Miss Deem music commit
tee, Mrs. Anna Sternberg health com
mittee, Mrs. S. A. Zimmerman home
economics committee, Miss Nelile
Farnsworth "Ex" club, Mrs. Frank
White.
Paulson Withdraws as
Aspirant for Judgeship
Committees to Meet to
Discuss Year Plans Farmer Pays Increase
From Eight-Hour Bill
WITHDRAW GUARDS FROM CARS
New York, Oct. 3.—Satisfied that
there is little further danger of vio
lence in the subway as the result of
the street railway strike, the police
department today withdrew all police
men from strike duty on underground
trains. Similar action will be taken
regarding elevated trains as soon as
the police routed the small bands of
strikers and sympathizers who bom
barded trains from roof tops in the
early morning hours.
Following the announcement that
the police guards were to be removed
three trains were attacked. A bullet
clipped a piece from the ear of a pas
senger.
Miss Margaret Lee, a niece of T.
Melvin Lee, of this city, died of pneu
monia on Friday, the little girl's death
occurring at the home of her grand
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Halvor Lee, of
Norma township. The, funeral was
held on Monday afternoon. The little
girl was about 12 years of age, and
was a very bright and interesting
child.
the strict enforcement of our law gov
erning the storage, keeping and hand
ling of fire works, only one fire from
such a cause in this state was report
ed to this department during the past
year. To know this must be gratify
ing to every citizen.
Insurance
above
VI- r.
1
A. P. Paulson has withdrawn as a
candidate for the position of judge of
the Fifth judicial district. The follow
ing telegram received Wednesday mor
ning from Secretary of State Hall is
self-explanatory:
Bismarck, Oct. 4.
Times-Record, Valley City:
We have received today withdrawal
of A. P. Paulson as candidate for judge
Fifth district. Omit this name from
judiciary ballots Fifth district.
THOMAS HALL,
Secretary of State.
New York, Oct. 3.—That "the far
mer foots the bill" for increased cost
of railway operation due to the Adam
son bill, forced through congress by
President Wilson at the demand of
the demand of the railway brother
hoods, is the contention of James Wil
son, former secretary of agriculture.
Mr. Wilson says:
"The farmer pays his help generous
ly, and if it were ascertained after
careful and full inquiry that labor on
railways was underpaid^ he would
consent to pay his share of increase,
or, if the measures agitating the coun
try were for the purpose of equalizing
salaries and adding something for
those receiving now too ilttle, the
farmers would be content.
"Eight hours a day may be long
enough for those engaged in some
lines of exacting work. Should this
number of hours become general in
all occupations, the farm included, the
price of food would rise still higher.
"Where will the money come from
to pay these increases? The railways
get money from the shippers. The
large majority of shippers are the far
mers. The board having authority to
raise or lower rates gave authority not
long ago to make increases, stating to
the country that certain roads did not
have sufficient incomes to pay neces
sary expenses. If this proposed in
crease for a few employes, decreed by
congress under pressure of the presi
dent, is sustained by the courts, what
will follow?
I "The farmers are unorganized, un
able to restrict their labor to eight
hours a day, obliged to sell the pro
duct of their labor at prices affixed by
the ordinary influences of supply and
demand. It is entirely antagonistic to
their interests to have a small group
of men employed by the railways al
lowed to fix their way for carrying the
produce of the country at the cost of
the producers and consumers. The
farmers as a class have maintained
that the owners of the railways must
not be allowed to make a monopoly
of carrying, but must permit their
charges to be supervised by public
authority.
Jamestown City Dads
Order Streets Cleared
A great many people have arrived
at the conclusion that the insurance
companies make high or low rates of
insurance. Insurance is a commodity
which all companies sell. If the in
sured has a bad risk naturally he
must pay a high rate. High insurance
rates make for many fires, while low
insurance makes for few fires, and in- Jamestown, Oct. 3.—After a due
surance companies do not want fires, amount of discussion and considera
therefore we, as the insured, should tion, members of the city council went
look to the conditions we have around on record at their session last eve
ns and see that we pay as low a rate ning as authorizing Mayor H. C. Flint
as possible for the commodity, insur- and the city of Jamestown to start
ance, by practicing flre prevention work on Main street and clear that
first. street of all obstructions between
The Farmers Fourth and Fifth avenues.
The farmers of our state should It was declared that the city of
practice fire prevention. The year Jamestown is open to damage suits
just ended shows an appalling in- for possible injury which might be
crease in farm losses, while most of sustained by pedestrians because of
our cities show a decrease. How conditions which now exist on the
many of our farmers have discovered street and which have been there in
a small blaze caused by some un- some form or another for some time,
known agency, in the roof of his From the action and the sentiment
house or barn, and which could have of the members it was obvious that
been extinguished by one pail of wat- not a member of the council wanted
er and one or two ladders, but none to antagonize, but that this measure
were at hand and the buildings burned was taken for the best interests of
to the ground. Therefore it is incum- the city of Jamestown.
bent on every farmer to provide him-j The action was directly aimed at
self with ladders enough to reach to the Herman Nurnberg block, which
the very highest point of his buildings for more than a year has been in
and
all keep all waste and oily course of construction and during
rags in an enclosed receptable. This which time various obstructions have
department was called to investigate been in front of the building and on
a fire where the loss was over $9,000 the streets, crippling traffic to some
above his $4,000 insurance, which was extent for the large wholesale fruit
caused by oily waste left in his har-| wagons using the street and also to
ness room and which ignited and pedestrians who are forced to walk
burned his barn, contents and machin-! over planks. Then, it was also point
ery and three very valuable horses', jed out that city wires and city water
See to it that you practice fire pre- there are open to the elements. If the
vention. city takes the action and the owner
In conclusion this department re- of the property seeks to get a tempor
quests every citizen to help out on ary injunction restraining the city
Fire Prevention Day in accordance from carrying out its policy, it is evi
with the proclamation of the gover-1 dent that the city will be precipitated
nor. Let every housewife look over into a law suit.
her home. Remember that cleanli-
Fire Marshal.!
ONE MAN FILED 12,000
TELEGRlAiMS IN ONE NIGHT
ness is an enemy to fire. Let every
house owner and business man look
in his basement and attic, remove all
accumulation of rubbish, clean all New York, Oct. 3.—An example of
back yards and between buildings. the pressure put upon the telegraph
Form a committee and go in a body companies by the recent activity in
to livery barns and auto garages and the New York stock market is the
ask them to clean up and keep clean, sending of 12,000 telegrams by a
Talk flre prevention to the child in'member of the curb exchange in the
the home and in the school and the form of night letters to all parts of
benefits that will accrue therefrom to]the United States. The telegrams,
our state will result in saving much
property. Let us all join in safety
filed with the two big telegraph com
panies Saturday night, are said to
first in which flre prevention is one of constitute the largest single telegraph
the greatest items. Respectfully. order ever sent out from this city.
A. H. RUNGE, ,The cost is estimated at $6,000.
By H. L. READE, I You'N always se« it first in th»
'. Chief Asst. Flre Marshal. Daily Thnse Record.
I--1* t\L-
