COUHTY
HERALD
1 1
0
VOLUME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. OCTOBER 5. 1916.
NUMBER 40
PUTNAM
i
0
!0
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
Corn wu retaining oa the Knoxville
market last week for $1.15 a bushel,
higher than It has been within fifteen
t year.
Contrary to expectation, there have
been no applications for charters for
octal clubs in Nashville following the
decision of the supreme court in the
locker law case." " '
Byrum Tearwood, an aged citizen of
near Murfreeeboro, died on a train be
tween Huntland and Murfeesboro,
from a stroke of apoplexy brought on
by his running to catch the train."
Two negroes arrested in connection
with the murder of Bud Burns at Gp
donsburg were taken from the Hohen
wald Jail by a mob and1 shot to death
against trees on a near-by hill.
Messengers employed by the West
ern Union at Memphis, who went on
strike li an effort to force the con.
pany to"lreinState live youths who had
been dismissed, have abandoned their
strike and returned to work.
Spanish "real" was unearthed by
workmen at Jackson mound, - sear
Memphis. It was found at a depth of
fourteen feet Further digging failed
to reveal more of the silver coin. It
was coined in 1805.
J. Frank' Hanly and Ira Landrlth,
nominees of the prohibition party for
President and Vice President of the
' United States, will speak In Nashville
Saturday night, October 14. ' Elaborate
plans for their reception will be laid.
Dr. Landrlth is a citizen of Nashville.
The ' Tennessee coal operators are
practically unanhnous in the opinion
that unless some relief can be obtained
from the prevailing car shortage, the
entire country will be facing the most
serious coal famine in its history be
fore January 1.
Eleven members of Troop D, the
Knoxville cavalry company, have been
disqualified and sent home, reducing
the strength of the original from sixty
five the minimum to fifty-four. Ad
jutant Gen. Rogan has telegraphed to
Knoxville in an effort to have the de
ficiency supplied. - " ' ,
"Caesar," a large African lion be
longing to a circus showing in Rom
ford, turned upon his trainer, John
Hoffman, striking at him and badly
lacerating his hand and arm and
bringing the show to a sudden end.
The tent was emptied of a large audi
ence in a short time.
Determined efforts are being made to
have Charles E. Hughes, republican
presidential nominee, speak in Knox
ville before the termination of his cam
paign, and party leaders there are hope
ful that a favorable response will be
elicited from national headquarters
in New York within a short time.
Brooding over his wife's desertion
and her refusal to live with him again,
Henry Grooms, 35 years old, went to
the home of Gilmer Burns, in South
Knoxville, and shot and instantly kill '
ed Burns, - then ' fired with probably
fatal effect on Mrs. Pearl Grooms, hi
wife, and Mrs. Burns, whose husband
he had first slain.
Ten men were injured, two of theaa
seriously., when an engine ef 1 the
Roane Iron company became unman
ageable and ran away down a steep
Incline three miles south , of Rock
wood."1 The engine struck and killed
cow, putting some part of the en
gine cut of order. "
Harry H. Shelton, for many years
prominent in the practice of the law
at Bristol, will go to Winston-Salem,
N. C, to become counsel for the R.
J. Reynolds Tobacco company. His
new appointment Is declared to be a
distlnee promotion, especially In con
sideration of the unusually handsome
alary that attaches to H.
A real romance of the sehoolroom
IMPORTANT!
Attention is directed to the follow
ing extract from the Report of the
Fourth International Congress cf
School Hygiene, which was held In
Buffalo, N. Y., in 1913:
I "With the development of more ad
jvanced ideas of epidemology it has
come to be understood that it is both
from a" sanitary and an economic
standpoint, unwise to suspend the
sessions. of an entire school for the
purpose of eliminating a few pupils
who are the real distributers of in
lection, it has been found more ra
tional and practical to detect the
sources of infection and exclude them
from ' contact with others and this
process of elimination by exclusion is
in the writer's opinion the key to the
efficient control of Infectious disease
in any communly."
GARRETT SPEAKS
Hon. F. J. Garrett, congressman
from the ninth district, made a cam
tist
EXPRESSION OF THANKS
The committee elected by the Bap
church to look after the enter
WAYSIDE NOTES
No one has brought us a load of
wood yet.
The Wayside is being kept open un
til 9 o'clock nights. When the even
ings are cool, the fire makes it a
cheerful stopping place.
Fresh home made candy is kept on
sale at all times at the Rest Room.
Route 2 is the banner route again
this week.
Please leave the plates you ' took
pies home on at the Rest Room.
We wish to thank the ladies who
gave us pies for the pie supper. We
made $6.70, even though there were
only eight to bid on the pies. One
bidder got nine pies for $1.25.
- The chairman of the T. P. I. dlvis
ion of the Parent Teachers' has ap
pointed a committee to arrange for a
book shower for the T. P. I. library
to be . given soon. Any books suit
able for such a library that you may
care to donate will be greatly appre
elated. ' . . j
Mrs. O. K. Holladay, assisted bv
her sister, Mrs. McCluen, entertained
the Circle Wednesday very delight
fully. Many guesffe outside ' of the
Circle added to the enjoyment and
entertainment. A most delicious sal
ad course was served by the hostess,
assisted by Mesdames Halle and
Shanks. ,
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
At the eleven o'clock service Sun
day, October 8, the sacrament of the
Lord's Supper will be observed, and
new members received.
The pastor, Rev. A. J. Coile, will
preach at 7 o'clock, evening, on "The
man whom God helped to conquer
himself."
The Sunday school.under the sup
erintendency of R. H. Harding, is a
graded school and has classes adapt
ed to all ages. A cordial welcome
will be extended to strangers.
BUYS AYERSHIRES
Gen. John T. Wilder of Monterey
has bought several Ayrshire cattle
from an Ohio breeder and will place
them on his farm near Monterey. The
Ayrshires are famous for the quantity
and quality of milk and should be a
valuable breed for this section of the
country.
WOMAN'S CLUB MEETING
The Woman's Clubs of the Fourth
Congressional district will meet in
Gallatin " Saturday. Mrs. Rutledge
Smith of Cookevllle will preside, and
papers will be read, by Mrs. Walter
Carlen, Mrs. C. E. Wilson, Mrs. J. C.
McDearman of Cookevllle; and Mrs
Clara Cox Epperson and Mrs. C. A.
Douglass of.AJgopd.
paign speech in Cookeville Monday ! tainment. of th New Salem AssnH
.afternoon. He had a fair sized audi tion of Baptists on September 26, 27
I ence delivered a strong appeal to and 28, in their own behalf and in be
(Democrats. Mr. Garrett is one of the' half of the Baptist church desire to
"uot puuoucu oiiraacia m uic uiaic. express tneir nearty ana sincere
. I. n n 1. fi . rt V-
GUILTY NEW TRIAL
Herbert Whittaker was found guilty
of manslaughter on the charge of kill
ing Policeman A. H. Countiss of Mon
terey, and given a sentence of three
to ten years. Judge Gardenhire, ho-sv
ever, granted an appeal for a new
trial, and the case will be tried again
in January.
EDUCATIONAL RALLY
A teachers' meeting and Educational
Rally will be held at Post Oak in the
15th district, three miles north or
Cookeville, on Saturday, Oct. 28. This
will probably be the last rally held in
the country this year, and every teach
er is expected to attend. Program will
I
HERALD 50c A YEAR
Hereafter the Herald will be 50c' a
year. This raise in price is made
necessary by the increased cost of
paper and other material. Paper now
"osts aout three times as much. as
'' ' 1 st'" pro'n& up. There
fore we are compelled to charge more
for the Herald. It ' will continue to
be the best newspaper in the county
and the lowest in price.
t NASHVILLE
Dear Editor and Herald Readers
I hare been reading the good letters
from so many of my old friends I
just ' thought I would - write a few
words.
There is a lot or sickness in our
city at present. Mrs. E. L. Nunally
is Improving nicely .after undergoing
an operation. She is at St. Thomas'
Hospital
I wonder what has become of Fred
became known when it waa announced Brewer, that he don't write &uy more
that Miss Sadie Marguerite Patrick, I Corn again, Haywood Johnson,
22 years of age. had been married another good letter. -
to i v..hM.,.h .o it Wonder if L. Lacy has lost her pen
to James U Yarbrough aged 16. on I,, , th(, toa Bb'ft don.t
SepL 5 Yarbough had been a pupil 0ur Sunday BCn0Oi i9 getting along
In Miss Patrick s room at Ardington. 'nicely. We had an attendance of 113
near" Memphis, and there the romance i last Sunday, with 70 Bibles present
ripened. She taught the fifth grade.
- Members of the rifie teas of Knox
ville, which is the largest In the state,
have a chance to attend the forth
coming contest and encampment at
Jacksonville, beginning October 13,
under ' the auspices ef the National j
Rifle association. The expenses of all all
rifle teams will be paid by the national
government
The Jacksonville franchise . of the
Come on, readers, and write to the
Herald. Always tell us how your
Sunday pchool is getting along.
I was very sorry to hear of the ac
cident which happened at Mr. Tom
Harley's. They all have my sympa
thy. .
Come, friends, let u hear from you
L. 6. BURROUGHS.
THAT MORNING LAMENE8S
If you are lame every morning, and
i ob . y , r T.: .vl urinary ills, there must be a
South Atlantic League has been taken , nft ' u,. ' k To
over by Randolph Rose, a business Btrengthen the weakened kidneys and
man of Chattanooga, who Is an ardent yert more serious troubles, use Doan's
baseball fan and devotee of boxing. Kidney Pills. . You can rey on this
Manager Rose is president of the Ran'
lelph Rose Athletic Club f Chatta
nooga, one of th leading boxing Or
ganizations In the south.
More than one hundred Georgia far
mers in . automobiles will visit Cleve
land October i. Tbey. will go from
testimony.
Mrs. Martha Hearn, 314 N. MapleSL.
Lebanon, Tenn., says: "My back ach
ed constantly and I had "soreness
across my kidneys. I tired easily, es
pecially mornings. Frequently, I had
headaches and I could, hardly stand
from dizziness. The secretions from
there to Sweetwater These farmers my kidneys passed too rreeiy. uoan s
are looking Into the stock raising la- Kidney Pills strengthened my back
.t m uAii F.at T.naaiMft and put my kidneys in good shape."
dustry "" Tsnen ssee aQ dealera 8m
counties; the boU weevil harms be- ply Mk for akidney remedy.getDoan'a
come disastrous to their eotten crop, vMwT piin. the same that Mrs.
they new contemplate live steak Ml Hearn had. Foster Milburn CoPtod
lng instead. . Buffalo, N. Y. i-
C. P. 8YNOD
The Tennessee Synod of the Cum
beriand Presbyterian church will con
Tene in Cookeville next Tuesday and
continue in session for several days..
About 300 delegates and visitors are
expected, and arrangements for their
entertainment are practjically com
Plete.v;,r .. ,,;T r,r ,
thanks to all who in any way assist Published next week. Respectfully,
ed in and contributed to the enter! J. M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt.
tainment and success of the Associa
tion. We pledge ourselves to return
the kindness whenever the -occasion
permits.
ENTERTAINMENT COM.
LON SCOTT ORATES
Hon. Lon A. Scott, past, present
and Ituture member of the legislature
from Hardin county, made a cam
paign speech in Cookeville Tuesday
to a small crowd, largely Democrats.
Mr. Scott made a telling effort for the
Republican ticket. He is a strong
and pleasing speaker. He will spend
the rest of the week in Putnam coun
ty and should have large audiences
at each appointment. ,
LOOKING FOR BIG AGRICULTURAL DISPLAY
Saturday',' Oct, 20, will be Agricultural Day for Putnam
county, .and a splendid exhibit of farm products is expect
ed tq be in Cookeville. The rules, and list of. prizes are
given below:
. -.' nvNH RULES. .
. 1. Only farmers of Putnam county are eligible to enter. .'
2? Products entered must be of crop of 1916.
3. '. Each exhibit must be tagged showing variety. ' :
Ribbons will be given for second and third, and the committee
reserves tight to withold prize where the exhibit lacks quality.
5. Exhibits must be entered before 9:30 A. M., Oct. 21..
6. An exhibit c&a be entered in but one class.
7. While every precaution will be taken the committee will not be ,
responsible for any loss or damage to exhibits while on exhibit .
,8;... The superintendents of the grounds will be in absolute charge of
the arrangement and disoosal of exhibits while on .display, and their
consent must be obtained before removal of any exhibit can be made.
BLAIR HARRISON, County Agent
AGRICULTURAL EXHIBITS. -
B. C. HUDDLESTQN, CHESTER PATTON. MILLARD STONE, Supts.
Class No. 1. Best general farm exhibit .$5 00
Class No. 2. Best peck of wheat '. $1.00
Class No. 3. Best peck of oats .$1 00 .
Class No. 4. Best peck of rye $1.00
Class No. 5. Best peck of soy beans $1.0f
Class No. 6. Best peck of field peas : $1.00
Class No. 7. Best ten ears Hickory King corn.... $2 50
Class No. 8. Best ten ears Tennessee Red Cob corn $2 50
; Class No. 9. Best ten ears any other variety corn $2.55
- Class No. 10. Best half dozen stalks soy beans $150
Class No. 11. Best half dozen stalks corn (leaf and ears). $1.50
Class No. 12 Best ear of corn .' $1.00
Class No. 13. . Best exhibit home raised grass and clover seed. . . .$2.50
(three or more kindsj
, Class No. 14. Best half bushel sweet potatoes $1.00
Class No. 15. Best half bushel Irish Cobbler Irish potatoes.. . . . .$1.00
Class No. 16. Best half bushel Early Rose Irish' potatoes. , t $1.00
Class No. 17. Best half bushel Burbank or White Elephant
, Irisn potatoes , ..$1.00
Class No. 18. Best and largest pumpkin. , . . . .$1.00
Class No. 19. Best quart sorghum '.....$1.00
Class No. 20. k Best display of fruit (apples, peaches, etc.) $2.50
Class No. 21. Best display of apples (three or more varieties) . . $2.00
Class No. 22. Best display of soy bean hay $1.00
Class No. 23. Best display of clover hay .$1.00
Class No. 24. Best display of alfalfa hay $1.00
Class No. 25. Best display of timothy hay $1.00
Class No. 26. Best display of red top hay . $1.00
CORN CLUB8.
T. W. KITTRELL and D. C. WHITE AKER, Supts.
, First Community Corn Club ..... t .$15.00
Second Community Corn Club $12.50
Third Community Corn Club : $10.00
Fourth Community Corn Club ...$7.50
Fifth Community Corn Club ..$5.00
PIG CLUB.
H. D. McCULLEY, Supt.
Best record by Pig Club boy
Second best record by Pig Club boy ...........
Third best record by Pig Club boy
.$4.00
.$2.59
.$1.60
4 Fourth best record by Pig Club boy in- -
WOMAN'8 DEPARTMENT. -
MISS MARGARET McKENZIE, Supt
Beet collection of bread, must include light bread, corn 1 , - ,
bread' and biscuits , .24 lbs. flour
Best loaf cake .24 lbs. flour
Best layer cake .................. .....24 lbs. flour
Best collection canned fruits, not l068 than three nor more
. than six varieties ;........t..j;. ....vr..:....$2.00
Best collection of preserves, not lees than three varieties. . . .$1.00
Beet collection canned vegetables, not less than three nor more
than six varieties V, .V. '. . . . $i.66.
Best canned tomatoes First 50c; Second, 25c
1.
2.'
3.
4.
.
6.'
7.
8.
9.
10.
1L
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
Best apple jelly ........ ,
Best sour pickles
Best beet pickles .......
Best embroidered centerpiece .........
Best crochet centerpiece ..'
Best hand made toel
Best hand made baby cap ....... ..........
Best shirt waist ...........
Best embroidered corset cover ,.t. ..........
Best tatting, not less ban two yards ........
Best crochet lace, not less than two yards . .
Beet pair pillow cases . ....... .
Best kitchen apron (most sensible and neat) .
26c
. ... .60c
..;.60e
....$1.00
...$1.00
...... 60c
....$1.00
....$1.00
......500
...... 50c
.....60c
.....60c
.....50c
' CANNING CLTTB PRIZES. 7
1. Best club exhibit (to be arranged by club members.) First prize,
$10.00; second prize, $5.00. (Given by Pannt Teachers'-Association.)
2. Best collection of canned vegetables, to contain not less than three
varieties. $5.00 Lavallere. (Given by Jenkins 'ft Darwin Bros.) ,
8. Best collection of canned fruits, to contain not Jess fhan three vari
eties $5.00 Fall Hat. " (Given by Williams. Elroi A Maddux.)
4. Best collection of jellies, to contain not less than three varieties.
Trio White Wyandotte chickens. (Mrs. Fred White.)
5. Best tin can of tomatoes. First $2.00; second, $1,00,: By Wylys
" Drug Store.) . J. "" ;h-t "i i 't'i '' . l"'!i r'
6. Best collection of pickles, not less than three varieties. $1.00:-?
7. - Best white apron and. cap made by Canning Club glrL - Aluminum
' Tea KetUe. (Jere Whitson Hardware Co.)
LADIES' AID SOCIETY
A well attended meeting of the La
dies' Aid Society was held Mondav
afternoon. After the business ses
sion, a very delightful social hour
was spent, after which delicious re
freshments were served. The next
meeting of the Aid will be with Mrs.
Chas. Reagan, Oct. 9, at 3 o'clock.
BRYAN IN NASHVILLE
Williams Jennings Bryan, the great
commoner, will speak in Nashville on
the night of Oct. 18, at RymanAuditor
ium. This will be his only speech in
Tennessee during the present cam
paign and will attract thousands who
delight in hearing the great orator
METHODIST CHURCH
- "Abraham,the Friend of God" is the
subject of the morning sermon for
Sunday, Oct. 8, by the pastor. Rev.
R. J. Craig. The evening service will
begin at 7 o'clock, and will be evan
gelistlc. As this Is the last Sunday
of .the conference year, everybody is
cordially invited to attend the servic
es, the "strangers in our midst" are
welcome..
Epworth : League meets at 6:15.
JEWELRY 8 TO RE FOR COOKE
iisYILLEinu
Mt. View Lodge No. 179, I. O. O. F.
held a splendid meeting on SeDt.30.
1916. D. E. Slagle. N. G.. presiding
with some 20 brothers present. The
usual routine business was disposed
of. Bro. C. Bradford was reported
improving slowly. Bro. J. H. York
has returned from Red BoilingSprings
claiming some plight improvement.
Bro. Martin Loftis is now convales
cent. Bro. Jesse Pendergrass is im
proving slowly. Bro. John M. Lee is
thought to be some better. - Bro. C.
J. Davis was reported to be very sick
since Sept. 15, is feeling some better.
One petition for the initiatory was
presented, read and referred commit
tee of investigation.
There will be no meeting' of the
Lodge on Oct. 7th,' as the members
desire to meet with the Association
of Putnam County Odd Fellows' at
Baxter on that date. '
Several1 brothers contemplate at
tending the Grand Lodge at Nashville
on Oct. 18th, at which time they will
learn more of the I. O. O. F. Home,
as the Home trustees will make a
splendid report on same. 1
. .. . . . t" ; i
VT.V DIED !-i.-Cu'J iVar-t
On Sept. 23, 1916, at the home of
her mother, Mrs. Kinn, Tell City.Ind.,
Mrs. dna Dyer, eged 22 years, wife
of Brother Noble Dyer of Baxter, and
was buried at Tell City. .
Brother Dyer has the sympathy of
his brethren of Baxter Lodge, No.
494, L O. O.. F., in his hour of sad be
reavement, and we assure him of our
brotherly love and friendship.
Sister Dyer leaves a loving little
daughter five years old, in the care of
her grandmother.
J. M. HUNTER,
I. M. MEDLEY.
I. E. YORK, Committee
Above is a good likeness of Mr.
R. H. Powers, one of the latest
additions to Cookeville's business
men.
R. H. Powers of Dickson, has de
cided to locate in Cookeville and es
tablish a jewelry store. He will car
ry a complete line of Jewelry, silver
ware and optical goods. He is an ex
pert Jeweler and optician, and tflll
fit glasses and do all kinds of repair
ing in his line. Located for the pres
ent on ueaar street one aoor nortn
of the Citizens Bank. . ,
ELECTION NOTICE
Notice is hereby siven that on
Tuesday, Nov. 7, 191C, an election will
be opened "and held at a'l of the reg
ular voting precincts in all of the Civ
il districts of Putnam County, Tennes
I see, for the purpose of electing a
' Representative from s:ud eourity in
I the next GeneralARsembly o? theState
iof Tennessee; a' State Senator from
I this, the 10th, Senatorial district; a
(Representative in CoatTCKs from this,
jtho 4th CongresfJoml district; Gov
ernor; a Railroad commissioner ror
tho Western division or the State of
Tennessee; and twelve electors for
President and Vice President of the
United States. " .
This. Oct. 4, 1916. (
L.' F. STOCKTON,
BEECHER PHILLIPS,
ALGOOD MOORE,
Board of Election Commissioners
for Putnam County
NOTICE TO TEACHERS
The committee have decided that in
the spelling contests for-Fie ra Day
a committee of Primary teachers to
select words suitable for first and sec
oud grades. These words will be
simole and of everv dav use.
In Spelling Contest No. 2, the' coun
ty superintendent will select words
from Hunt's Progressive Speller.They
will be Belected from the first 80
pages of the book, i
Do not forget to send in your en
tries to the secretary by Oct. 10.
J. M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt."
SEPTEMBER RECRUIT8
The following named applicants ap
plied . at the Cookevllle recruiting of
flee for enlistment In the United
States Army during, the' month of
September, and were accepted or re
jected for the reasons stated; '
Lincoln Potter, Peavine, accepted.
Edward L. Patton, Peavine.aoceptd
James DeRossett, Yamacraw, Ky.,
accepted. "'
Bethel F. Richardson, Boma, reject
ed, for defective vision.
John H. Stone, Algood, rejected for
defective, vision. if- "
Bennie M. Wllmoth, J Mayland, re
jected for physical disqualification. '
Paul M-Hamilton, Cellna, accepted
Walter E. Elam, Cellna, accepted.
Hall M. Napier, ' Cellna, rejected
"defective, vision, '
March hank' 'McCain.' Alrood. relect
ed (colored.)" ,
John B. Holford, Monterey,, accept
ed. : 0 ...
Erastus Horn, Monterey, accepted.
Henry H. Young, Chestnut Mound,
accepted.
George A., Phillips, Hanging Lame,
accepted. V .
Zina G. Mitchell, Cookeville, accept
George B. Hayes, Cellna, accepted.
Ray T. Parker, Crossvllle, accepted.
All of the above named applicants
except Zina G. Mitchell were forward
ed to Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Mr.
Mitchell was forwarded to Nashville
for the purpose of ning inocculaw
against typhoid fever.- Mr." Mitchell
will be. associated with Sergeant Er
nest J- Johnston after the first, of
November.
RICKMAN, ROUTE T ' '
Mr". and" Mrs. " Leslie Cantrell and
family visited their "parents last night
Come on, Route S, with your letters
as I like to hear the news from out
there.' . V "'J
Hel'o, Swah Miller. What are you ; plaee Public Square, Cookevllle, un
REGISTRATION OF VOTER8
Notice Is hereby given that the
Registration Books for the First Civil
District "of Putnam County, Tennes
see, will be Open on Monday, Tues
day, and Wednesday, October 16, 17
and 18, in the Chancery Court room
at the Courthouse inCookeville,Tenn,
from 8 o'clock A. M., until 9 o'clock
P. M, to afford an opportunity for all
voters of said district who are not
already duly registered to, register.
This, Oct. 4, 1916.
L. F. STOCKTON,
BEECHER PHILLIPS,
ALGOOD MOORE.
Board of Election Commissioners
for Putnam County. ;
BRANDEWIE. CHORUS CLUB
A long felt need 'in Cookeville in
the development of singing was re ,
lieved by the organization of the
Brandewie Chorus Club Wednesday
evening. The purpose of this club
is to teach the rudiments of music, ,
ight singing with the movable Do
system, which is the modern system
of teaching. The club is exceeding
ly gratified at having secured the ser
vices of Miss Brandewie, who Is di .
rector of music at T.; P. I., and a grad
uate of the Conservatory of Music, of
Cincinnati, as musical director.
. The following officers were elected:
R. H Harding, Pres.? Miss Hawkins,
1st Vice President; Mrs. C. E.Wilson,
2d Vice President; J. B. Thompson,
Secretary; Miss Gladys LaRoscne,
Assistant Secretary; Austin 'Smith,
Treasurer; E. B. Duke, Business Man .
ager. " Vs -i
An entrance fee of 15 cents will be
charged, after which there will be no
dues nor tuition; The meetings will
be held in ibe auditorium of the First .,
Presbyterian church each Friday ev
ealng at 8 o'clock. Every person; who
is" interested In the development of
singing Is urged to Join this club.
Attend next Friday evening and be;
come a member. " '
BU8INE88 FOR 8ALE AT C08T
Brown's Music Store For. Sals Now
' .. -,.t- ... . , . . ... v
" Have , been In . the .music , business
over twenty years and my sales run
thirty five thousand dollars a year,
but on account of bad health I have
decided to quit business. Prices are
greatly reduced now. Jf you are not
ready to buy, get ready and come
where gnods are cheap. I will still
sell on the installment' plan and you
can pay monthly without security. I
have most all kinds of musical lnstru
ments, sewing machines, and supplies
of all kinds. If you are going to buy
In to or three years you' had better
buy now, while the goods are cheap.
I am going to sell out . '
ThanVing mv : thousands of custo
mers for the liberal patronage they
hate gien me, I will be at the same
doing? Write to the Herald.
:Hrs. W. C. Tudor and family spent
the night with George Wilson and
family on night last week.
Weddings seem to be the order of
the day. - ' --f-.ii w
Union Hill Sunday school ' Is ' pro
grossing nicely. : .; 1 MART KEY. :
'An advertisement "li the Herald is
sure to reach the people. Try it
til'I close out my stock. Your best
friend for music. Again thanking
you for past favors, I am, ' . .
Respect'u'Iy yours." "
' " ' f FELIX' A. BR6WN
buy all, my goods from Chicago,
New York and Virginia factprles.
J. H. Watts went to"lashvnie,ye
terday to atend the banquet given to
AI G. Fields, the minstrel, by the Elks
