:tate Historical Society
Taney County Republican
21. No 47.
FOKSYTI1, MISSOURI, TUUKSDAY, OCTOKEU 5, 1910.
Four Pages.
Col. Gardners "Opening"
Col. Frd D. Crdnrr, whose cai
riififry for Governor appears to be a
verv exclusive affair, almost separa'e
from ths rest ( f the Democratic cam
pa an, rud his own little "opening" at
Oiilico'he CD the 23d. On this oc
cnsinn, the colone', whj git his title
from Gov. M-tjor, mad; a careiul
ly prepared speech. Not being an
on;or hs writes oit his spaecries and
e trier reads or commits them to mem
0 v. He takes no chance on sidf
flail's. Wnit he says, he sys di-lia-rately.
There is no txplanatiun
of impulseiveness. if inadvertince or
or of mimiuur nirvo.nni;s.
Under the circimuances we coiL-ss
to some surprise at the Gudn:r open
ing speech, especially with reference
to his pet land loan law. Mr. Girdmr
awumes to have given this sulj ct
close stud. If that is true, he ouht
to be able to auswer objections to his
law readily, clearly and satisfactorily
He does not do that. I ideed, an in
telligent stranger, reading the Chilli
cothe speech, would promptly reach
the conclusion that Gardner does not
believe in his own land loan bill.
now, at least. He rrnv hive thought
it at one time a good campaign card
amdag the farmers for use in an
nection with the primari.s. It d;d
work pretty well in that connection,
but that was before Judge Linim un
covered it.
The Republican candidate for gover
nor, asked Gardner a number ol im
portant and legitimate questions about
his measure. He didn't answer any
01 them fairly, for the probable reason
that he couldn't. Not without giving
his whole case away.
Judge Lamm asked Mr. Gardner,
first of all, where he was going to get
the million dollars to start the state in
the loaning business. The coffin
manufacturer didn't answer that direct
ly at all, but he said the state didn't
have any trouble getting a million dol
lars for the St. Louis Exposition and
and three million for the new state
cipitol. The people of the state were
taxed directly for the first and issued
bond? and went into debt for the see
on''. It is evident from this that Gar
dner proposes either to increase the
the farmer's tax and get this money or
to add to the debt of the state, which
the farmer will have to pay later on,
for it's the farmer's outdoor property
tint pays the build of the tax. How
ever the "colonel," following the trades
man's method of putting his victim to
sleep by means ol (he installment plan,
says he would onlv use $250,000 each
year for four years, thus miking it
easy. Surely Mr. Gardner can't be
serious about a proposition to replace
the $113,000,000 farm loans of the
state and to meet the new loan de
mands which he himself pretends to
foresee and want to provide for in ad
dition, with a measly little quarter of a
million dollars. He must be kidding
us. But whether this money comes
straight or in installments, it comes,
nw Or hereafter, in incraased tax s
frm the larmers.
So the ve y impqrtant charges tha
this f a political measure, that it
the wa for the 'creation of an unlimit
ed number ol soft Jabs with lnci'culable
expense accounts that it is so consti
tuted that the banking powers of the
state will naturally be prostituted,
through the agency established, to. the
use of primuy and general politics,
that vast responsibility and a great trust
are given into unt-ainrd hands and
that a tremendous buiden will be
loaded onto the farmer taxpayers, w th
no real relief in compensation, Gar
dner makes no answer. He confesses
by evasion.
To the charge that the Gardner law
is a step toward single tax through the
exemption of debenture bonds and its
consequent increase of tax on land, he
replies that the exemption is in the
Interest of a lower rate of interest for
toe farmer. But the lower rate of in
terest is neither assured nor probable
after the first hall million of loans. The
basis of the hope for it is theoratica-
ly beautiful but practically impossible
cmsidering the political machinery n
the banking process provided.
To the charges that the plan propos
ed gives money to the man who can
easily borrow it at a low rate of interest
elsewhere, but none to the man who
needs it most, that it does not provide
for invetiable losses, that it threatens
t'v Ji- a :al h ntr il the a; :td
thit it is logically conducive to social
unrest in that it tsx s all- classes for
the presumed benefit of one, Mr.
Gardner answer never a word. This is
more confession by evasion
The man who read and he-ird Mr
Gardners speech are not s-irprised that
the Democratic gubernatorial candi
date d clined to debate the land bank
proposition with Judge Lnmi. His
polit cal health forbade. He wouldn't
have lasted ten minutes bv the town
clock in such a debate, and he knows
it.
On a Hobby.
"Col. Gardner at best is a man try
ing 10 ride into cilice on a hobby, and
that hobby is a very wobbly land bank
bill. The fact that every Democratic
candidate in the piimary attacked the
Dili does not speak well of it as a Dem
ocratic measure. The very fact farm
ers must pay more taxes to raise mon
ey for the state to loan shows it a pol
itical trick which does not appeal to
intelligent farmers t'temselves. The
necessity lor iucreasiug greatly the
number of state employees at Jefferson
City to recive pay out of the state
treasury suppr:ed by farmers' taxes
help make the scheme odious, when
the iutention has been to discontinue
the extravagent misuse of funds at Jef
ferson City. The Gardner scheme will
conduce further to the present financi
al embarrasment of M ssouri. II these
appointeess were to be aDpoioted up
on merit tests, that would relieve mat
ters some but the attorneys who are to
examine abstrats and the men who are
to value the securities aud all others
neccessary for the operation of the
plan are subject to partisan appoint
ment and control. This means en
larged pork barrels the very things
that farmers do not want." Jno. E.
Swanger in Sedalia Capital.
Senator ReedL who is a candidate for
re-election, though nearly a hundred
thousand Democrats indicated their
opposition to him on primary day, is
calling on the people to stand by their
president. Only about a year . ago,
Reed's ears were warm at what the
Democrats of Missouri and particularly
the Democratic newspapers were say
ing about his own opposition to Wil
son because the latter hadn't given
some of his henchmen jobs for which
they were fit. Under the circum
stances to vote for a high-class busi
ness man, Walter S. Dickey, for Sena
tor, in the belief that most of the prob
lems and ought to be solved on a busi
ness rather than a political basis by
patriotic business men.
The Democratic' newspapers are
pointing to the defeat of Gov. Colquitt
in the Texas Democratic primaries as a
victory forWilson. Colquitt has taken
occasion to sharply criticise the Mexi
can policy of the administration an
exercise 0! Lese Majeste which federal
office holders could never forgive.
But isn t it rather remarkable that a
Democratic governor who would float
the policies of a Democratic president
should get over 100,000 votes in a
Democratic primary? Surely that
means something.
The people of the cities of Missouri
haven't forgotten the free soup-hous, s
and the charity bread-lines of 1914.
following the enactment of the Wilson
Underwood tariff. But for the pro
tective condition that came with the
war is over, we rill have them again if
we haven't in the meantime returned
the party of protection to full power. .
The report that instructions were
given to the band at the Democratic
"opening" at Joplin to begin playing
il anybody mentioned state affairs, may
or may not be true, but in any event,
the band had no occasion to play on
jhat account. "Mum" was the word.
An Interesting Point In The War.
The force ai.d rxteot ol the first
German drive into Northern France
can be best understood by consulting
the map for ascertaining the relative
p isitions of the armies in and around
Corubles. Tne objective point ol the
Germans in the first great rush was
the channel seaport of Calais. How
near they came to reaching it is seen
iu the fact that now after losing Com
bles. they are still in the province, or
what the French call the arcadissraent
of Calais, although do on its extreme
southeastern edge, and not likely to
remain there very long. They have
fallen back from points north and west
of La Bassee, during the two offensives
made by the allies within the past year
such a distance as plainly shows how
near they had come to Calais itself.
Further consultations of the map is
likely to remove any optimistic inr
p esiiun one may have had that the
war is because of the tailing back of
the Germans in France, nearing a
a speedy close. The Germans have
Dten falling back very slowly, so slow
ly in fact both in point of time and of
distance, that now, after the loss of
Combles, map measurements taken by
scale of miles to the inch of map sur
lace. show them to be still almost as
n ar England, including the distance
across the English Channel between
Calais and Dover, as they are to the
nearest German frontier. A relization
of how near the Germans came to
Calais leads naturally to (peculation of
what would have happened to Great
Britian had they actua !y got there.
Speculation along that line can now be
seen to be useless, there being no
longer a prospect left of such an occu
pation. -We may however speculate
that Calais in German hands might
have proved as dissappointing as has
Aotwtrpi of which Von Moltke once
said: "Antwerpt is a dagger aimed at
England's hean."
An interesting and more p-actical
are speculations as to whawhe German
plan of campaign is to' be along the
western front from tl'ns time onward.
It is plain that the allies are now so
thoroughly organized and so well rq
uipped wiih 'arti.leVy and. munitions
that they can sustain the tfljesive in
definitely, and that it is their purpose
to do so. The German retirement will
in all probajility, have to be maintain
ed, and following the lall of Combles
it will be interesting to watch the de
velopment of the new G rman strategy
This cannot wholly be discounted by
assuming that it will Consist mainly
of a practical abandonment of the siege
of Verdun and a consequent shortening
of the German line. That is a prob
ability but a posibility in the case is
that the Germans may retire on Bel
gium and make Antwerpt a base ot
action. We are at one of the most
interesting points in the history of the
war. Globe Democrat. -
It is Merely A Memorandum
Patient paper has been seldom worse
abused than when the Gardner land
bank proposal was printed upon it. , It
does not even resemble a law. Where
it is not a stump speech it is a mere
memorandum on which a law might
be drafted, by long work and liberal
exercise of discretion. Much mention
is made of foreclosures, but there Is
not a word about the vital' thing. It
does not say when any loan shall be in
default. There is no specific authority
granted anybody to collect a single in
terest or amortization annual paj ment
and no provisba as to how long such
, P301 ma7 te deferTed or 8 " ,
to
whether they shall bear interest while
deferred. There is not a word about
payment of taxes or liens or judgments
on lands after the loan has been made.
There is not a thing about who shall
bear the expense of foreclosure be pos
sible prior to the lapse ol the entire
loan period. There is no provision as
to who shall pay the bondholders the
annual payments, in case of default.
The possibility of defaults of annual
payments never seemed to occur to
the author. The only specific power
to collect annual payments is given
with reference to the annual charge ol
one half ol one per cent for the "re-1
serve fund" and the proposal is even
silent as to defaults of these payments.
The land bank may as a last resort,
to save itself from loss, acquire lands
under foreclosure. These lands, as
assets of the bank, could be exempted
from state, county and municipal taxa
ation, under the proposed amendment
but are not so exempted under the act
sought to be validated. The bank is
not required to sell these lands. It is
not even authorized to sell them, or
anything else for that matter, except
its own debenture bonds. It is not
even empowered to sell the bonds of
Misssoui, of other states or of the Uni
ted States or the "other sale securities"
in which the "reserve fund" shall be
kept invested, in so far as practicable.
There is not a word as to commissions,
prices, etc., in making these invest
ments. The act does not provide what
disposition or use, public or private,
the land bank shall make of the ac
quired lands. There is no provision
that the land bank shall keep any cash
or other liquid assets on hand to pay
bond cupons as presented. There is
no provision as to method of paying
cupons at all. The federal act makes
provisions for all these thiogi on which
the G?rdner proposal is silenj. Col.
Gardner should drop his monstrosity.
Globe-Democrat.
Fall Management of Bees
It is not generally known that the
Mi'so ri bee collects and stores under
favorable conditions nearly a million
dollors worth of honey each year. Ac
cording to the records of the Missouri
Bee keepers' Association there are ap
proximately 200,000 colonies of bees
in the state omed by 40,000 beemen
and beekeepers. There is a distinct
ion between a beekeeper who cares for
his bees and a beeman who merely
owns bees, and unfortunately the latter
are in the majjrity. Those who are
in the latter class probably have a few
prehistoric gums of boxes with cross
sticks nailed inside or possib'y even
movable comb hives tilted over on one
side and without shade except for that
furnished by weeds which are allowed
to grow up around them.
Even with all the neglect which the
bees receive they help materially to
increase or rather save the products
ol the state to say nothing of their im
measurable value to horticulture and
agriculture iu the pollenizition of Iruits.
In proportion to size there is no com
parison between the value of the pro
ducts of the Missouri bee and the
famed Missouri hen and at the same
time the bee feeds itself. However,
l (he befi u a m0K dc,icate creature
ban the hen and cannot withstand
he tooufien inexcusable neglect which
it receives.
K you arc a beeman now is the time
10 consider plans lor getting your
bees ready l.'rwhit may be a long cold
winter. With the first killing frosts
the bees' chance to store further sup
plies is ended and if through neglect
the colony is weak and unprovided
with supplies and a suitable home for
.u . . :. .I.-. . u .
tne winter, sre mi.h uidi uicac uctcv
sities are promptly provided. For
winter they must have plenty of honey,
not to exceed thirty ct for y pounds
for a strong stand, a dry home or hive,
and protection which will prevent sud
den changes of tempt rature. Make
sure of these three points immediitely
and then plan to beomeareil bee
keeper, if only in a snuU wav, next ,
spring by introducing necessary up-to
date methods and t quipment. There j
is nothing on the farm which returns
as much value and profits d r the small
capital that need be invrsied sa a
dozen well cared for colonies of honey I
bees.
A candidate lor the Democratic
nomination (or governor of Missouri
said in the recent prrprimary cam
paign that the state was living too
much in the past and was satisfied
with the same sort of little schoolhous
es that their grandfathers attended fifty
years ago. If this candidate, who was !
not nominated, will watch the Missouri j
vote on November 7, he will hearj
something good on the subject of
Missouri progress.
A J. H. PAFRISH, Presidknt.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashiee.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
FOKSYTH, MlSHOfKI.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
A General Hanking
Collections a Specialty
C.W. MOOUE, Presiprnt. F. M. HALL, Vice-President.
A. B. MOOR P.. Cashier.
Bank of Hollister,
Hollister, Mo.
Capital Stock - - - $lo,ooo.oo.
Surplus and Undivided Profits, $2,000
Transacts a General Hanking Business,
WK PAY 1 l'KIt CKNT IN I T.KKsT ON TIMK DKI'OSITS.
1. 13. MILLS, President
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned,
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOUR BUSINESS
J F. ML LI ON, i:. G- MILLS, J- 1 MILLS,
J. t. Md'llLRSON, M. 13. SLL'SHLR, Directors
Fine Place to Fish
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. "PECK" MILLER,
Agency Frank
i g-j
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield, - - Missouri
J. W. REESE, Vice-President.
J2S.000.00.
$40,000.00.
Husines.s Transacted
Your Patronage Solicited
M. L SLUSH LiR, Cashier
$10,000.02
2,000.0?
Fine Place to Stop
Proprietor.
B. Smith Laundry
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
- - S
