BARR
DAI LT
VOL. XX NO. 172.
I3AIUIE, VERMONT. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1910.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
THE
E
TIMES
ALLIES MOVE
ON MONASTIR
Bulgarian Forces Are Being
Steadily Pressed Back
There
LOWERED WORLD'S RECORD.
TOWN OF BUF HAS
BEEN CAPTURED
Oii the Western Front the
French Have Captured
Nine Field Pieces
Paris, Oct. 5 On the Somme front last
night the French made further progress
in the region of Morval, the war office
announced to-day. They captured nine
3 '-a -inch suns.
The allied troops on the western end
of the Macedonian front continues to
press back the Bulgarian forces before
Monastir. The war office to-day an
nounced that further ground had been
rained and that the town of Buf, 12
miles south of Monastir, has been oeeu
pied.
CLAIMED DEFEAT
OF RUMANIANS
Sofia Official Despatch Says That Enemy
of 16 Battalions Were Routed
Russians and Rumanians in
Dobrudja Fail to Gain.
Sofia, Wednesday, via Loudon, Oct. 5.
Bulgarian troops from the fortresses of
Rustdiuk and Turtukai attacked and de
feated a Rumanian force of grime 16 bat
talions which recently crossed the Dan
ube into Bulgarian territory, near Ra
povo, the war olfice announced to-day.
On the main battle line in Dobrudja
attempts by the Russians and Ruma
nians to advance have been frustrated
by artillery by successful counter at
tacks. On the Macedonian front Bulgarian
troop have been successful in halting
attempted advances ot entente forces in
several sectors, the statement says.
Lee Axworthy Trotted Mile in l:59a t
Lexington, Ky.
Lexington, Ky., Oct. , .--One world's
record and two season records were brok
en at the third day of the Kentucky
Breeders' association meeting here yes
terday. The world's record was broken when
Lee Axworthy, 2:00, in an effort to
break the track record of 2:02 for trot
ting stallions made by Bete Yolo last
year, lowered his world's record to
l:59Vj.
Lucilo Spier, the world's champion
mare on a half mile track, went to beat
2:05 and trotted the mile in 2:03,
which is the season's mark for trotting
mares, nnd Roan Hal, in winning the
board of commerce stake for 2:00 pacers,
went the second mile in 2:00:4, which is
also the season's mark for pacing geldings.
All the races to-day were decided by
straight heats.
Lee Axworthy's performance was the
sterling effort of the week. The son of
Guy Axworthy never faltered in travel
ing his mile, maintaining his speed un
til he reached the wire. His fastest quar
ter was the third which he trotted in
28,4 seconds. A stiff wind almost full
up the stretch hindered him in the last
quarter. The champion was paced by
two runners.
JUST WAITING
FOR THE CLASH
Boston Americans, Marking
Time, Engage in Exhibi
tion and Field Practice
PART OF TEAM WENT
TO WORCESTER
TWO ARE MISSING
IN ST. LOUIS FIRE
Main Building of Christian Brother Col
lege Destroyed A Nurse Perhaps
Fatally Injured by Jumping.
St. Louis, Oct. 5. Fire to-dav de
stroyed the main building of the Chris
tian Brother college here and two aged
members of the faculty are missing and
are believed to have perished. A nurse,
who- jumped from the fifth floor, was
probably fatally injured. Few of the
students had reached the college. The
two missing faculty members are Brother
Cor murk, aged !)3, and Brother Clement,
aged 72.
Manager Robinson of Brook
lyn Expresses His
Confidence
6o COTTAGES DESTROYED.
RUMANIANS DENY IT.
That Their Bridge Across the Danube
Has Been Destroyed,
London, Oct. 5. A despatch from
Bucharest, via Rome, given out by the
Wireless Press to-diu-, denies the state
ment from the Bulgarian war offices that
Austrian monitors have destroyed a
bridge across the Danube, south of Buch
arest, over which the Rumanians passed
to invade Bulgaria. It is said the pas
sage of troops, munitions and stores has
continued.
The despatch also says that the battle
in Dobrudja is increasing in violence and
that the Germans and Bulgarians are
suffering enormous losses.
SUDDEN OVERRUSH
DEFEATS TURKS
NEAR TREBIZOND
Russians Resumed Offensive and Moved
Forward on Wide Front Russians
Also Progress in Volhynia.
Felrognid, via London, Oct. 5. Sudden,
ly resuming the offensive in Turkish
Armenia west of Trebiwnd, the Rus
sians, with the co-operation of a fleet,
have inflicted a severe defeat upon the
Turks, moving forward along a wide
front, the war office announced to-day
A fortified position in the river Kara
Burnum region was captured and great
josses were inflicted on the Turks.
Progress for the Russians in their at
tacks on the Austro-German forces from
Volhynia south to the Dneister in Gali
cia are also reported. Hostile positions
at various points were captured.
By Fire Which Swept Through Camp
Grounds at Epping, N. H.
Epping. X. If., Oct. 5.- Fire of unde
termined origin swept over the Hedding
camp grounds, near this town, last niglit
destroying no cottages ami causing a
roperty loss estimated at $40,000. A
majority of the buildings burned had
been closed for the summer, and there
was no loss of life,
There were nearly 400 cottages on the
grounds, which in former times had been
used for Methodist cam)) meetings. The
fire started shortly after 7:30, in the un
occupied cottage of Dr. Ira Chase of Ha
verhill, Mass. The flames had passed be
yond all bounds before one of the ten re
maining campers discovered the fire, and
firemen who arrived from Exeter, Epping
and Newmarket in response to telephone
calls for assistance, found themselves
handicapped bv lack of water. The sole
source of supply in the. entire camp is a
deep well, and from this the firemen drew
water, which they pased along by a buck
et brigade. A chemical engine from Exe
ter did good service, but the Teat of the
apparatus was useless.
Dynamite was finally used in a suc
cessful effort to check the flames. A line
of cottages directly across the course of
the fire was blown to atoms, and with
the aid of this barrier the firemen were
finally enabled to get the upper hand.
William Fuller, an Epping firemen, re
ceived severe cuts on the wrist when he
plunged his hand through a window pane.
Boston, Oct. 5. With the first game of
the world's series here two days away
virtually every detail of the local ar
rangements were completed to-day. The
world champion Boston Americans, mark
ing time until meeting the Brook
lyn Nationals, to-day divided their forces.
One group, headed by Capt. Jack Berry,
went to Worcester for an exhibition
game with the Philadelphia Americans
in aid ot a memorial fund for the old-
time umpire, John Gaffnev; others went
to the Braves' field for light practice.
Manager tarngan said that the bovs
were all in good shape except Foster and
Barry. Close followers of the team pre
dicted to-day that Leonard and Carrigan
will be the battery in the opening game.
1 He allotment ot all of the 27,000 re
served seat tickets was completed to
day, with more than 1,000 applications
unanswered. Requests for tickets came
from the French battle front, the Cana
dian northwest and Mexico, and applica
tions for press accommodations were re
ceived from Canada, Cuba and Panama.
Brooklyns' Manager Feels Confident.
New York, Oct. 5. -Wilbert Robinson,
manager of the Brooklyn team, to-day
expressed confidence in the ability of his
team to defeat the Red Sox. '"We are
going out to win and I think we can do
it," he said; we will show the fans some
real baseball."
Rube Marquard, who is reported to
have been selected to pitch the opening
game, said he was in top form and that
Brooklyn was sure to win. A wager of
20,noo' to $14,000 for Boston to win is
said to have been made here by E. E.
Smithers, owner of fat horses.
FAIR WEATHER SATURDAY.
Temperature Will Be Seasonable, with
Moderate Winds.
Boston, Oct. 3. Fair weather will pre
vail Saturday for the opening of the
world's series in the opinion of John
W. Smith, head of the local weather bu
reau. I lie temperature will be seasona
ble, with moderate winds from the west.
KILLED IN CAR'S OVERTURN.
Ray D. Kendall Victim When Fog Cloud
ed Vision.
"HEALER" FLOWER DEAD.
BRITISH TROOPS WIN
IN MACEDONIA
Captured Town of Yenikeui and Bulga
rians are Reported to Have Sus
tained Great Loss.
London, Oct. 5. British troops yester
day morning captured the entire town of
Yenikeui in Greek Maeedodia, two miles
east of Struma, says a British official
statement to-day. Scottish and Irish
battalions especially distinguished them
selves in the fighting and the Bulgari
ans are reported to have suffered heavy
Josses.
BERLIN LACKING FOOD.
Great Difficulty Being Met to Provision
the City.
Iondon. Oct. 5. Great difficulty is be
ing experienced in provisioning Berlin,
according to tne ociaiit newspaper
oor warts ot that city, as quoted by
Renter's Amsterdam correspondent. The
potato supply is ssid to have been
ttopped during the last few days because
of the lark of held laborers. A decrease
in the milk supply is the subject of anx
ious discussion by the authorities. The
newspaper says the many large dealers
have discontinued consignments to Ber
lin because of the shortage and that
there has been a great rush for the soup
kitchens, which now distribute 34,tH)
portions daily.
ANOTHER FLOUR RAISE.
Second in Ten Days Brought Price to
$030.
Chicago Oct. 5. The price of Minne
nota patents high-grade family flour ad
vanced 20 cents a barrel, to !.30, to
day, the second advance in ten days. The
same grade sold at $5 90 a year ago.
Hi3 Body Was Identified After Three
Days.
New York, Oct. 5. Dr. Richard C.
Flower, known throughout the country
for stock selling operations from which
he was credited with havinn netted more
than $1,000,000, dropped dead in a Ho
boken theatre Sunday night, it became
known last night when relatives identi
fied the body. Flower, who operated un
der many aliases, was in turn a lawyer,
preacher, "healer" and "alchemist" with
a secret for the manufacture of rubies,
and a Wall street mine operator. He
was 73 years old.
Flower was said to have induced the
widow of Theodore Hagaman, a wealthy
New York broker, to entrust him witn
more than half her fortune of $1,000,000
for investment in his gold mining scheme.
The son of a country clergyman, Flow
er was graduated from Northwestern
university in 1SGS, practiced law in the
middle West and later entered the min
istry. .When the ministry palled on him
he turned "healer" and founded an al
leged medical company, in which he sold
stock.
At the time of his last arrest in Tor
onto in 1914, Flower had been a fugi
tive from justice nearly 12 years, lie
was sentenced to serve a term of two
years in the penitentiary on Blackwell's
island after a plea of guilty to two
charges of grand larceny. He was liber
ated Angust 1 last and since then had
lived in Bayonne, X. J.
Milford, X. H., Oct. 8. Ray D. Ken
dall was killed in an automobile accident
on the road between Amherst and Alii
ford early yesterday niorninir. Accom
panied by Miss Florence Powers of this
town he was returning from a ride to
Nashua, when a sudden fog bank struck
Ins windshield. I he machine climbed
steep bank, plowed through the bushes
for 50 feet, and then turned over. Ken
dall was caught between the. steering
wheel and the overturned car and seems
to have died of suffocation, as no bones
were broken.
The young woman was thrown clear
of the car and was rendered unconscious.
For two hours she lay in the road before
she was able to crawl to the farmhouse
of Augustus .Smith and arouse the sleep
ing family. Then Dr. Oscar Burns of
Amherst was called. Beyond the shaking
up and bruises, Miss Powers will sustain
no permanent injury.
Ray Dodge Kendall was the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Charles E. Kendall of Elm
street and was 23 years of age. His far
ther is a well-known merchant and mill-
man here and the young man, employed
at Springfield, Vt., was at home on vaca
tion. He was born in Milford, graduated
from the schools here and last year from
Wentworth institute in Boston.
CHURCHMAN WAS KILLED.
GREEK WAR CABINET.
Will Have Three Followers of Ex-Premier
Veniielos.
Athens, Oct. 5. King Constantine pre
sided over the crown council held at the
palace yesterday morning to consider
written opinions of the situation sub
mitted by each minister, to which the
minister's resignation was appended, to
be accepted in case tne opinions were un
satisfactory to the monarch.
I he minister of the interior, Loucas
Roufas, the minister of communications,
Lysandre Kaftandjoglou. and the minis
ter of just, M. okotopoulos, opposed
Greece's entry into the war.
The king promptly accepted the resig
nation of the entire niini.-try for the pur
pose of forming a national war cabinet.
which will include three of the adher
ents of ex-Premier Yenizelos.
Demetrios Diamantidi. minister of
communications in tie Venizeps cabinet,
was called to the palace to advise the
king respecting the Yenizelosists to be
chosen. The former president of the
chamber, Constantine Zavitsanos. and
the former minister of the interior, M.
Kafandaris, are under eonidcrati m in
addition to M. Diamantidis.
And Another Was Injured When Auto
Overturned in Ditch.
Peoria, 111., Oct. 6. Fr. E. J. Schuetz,
chancellor of the Catholic diocese of Peo
ria, was killed, Right Rev. Edmund M.
Dunne, bishop of Peoria, suffered a di
located shoulder, and Very Rev. James V.
shannon, vicar general of Feoria, was
slightly injured when an automobile in
which the churchmen were going to a
confirmation ceremony, turned over into
a ditch yesterday near Princeville. Fr.
Sduietz's neck was broken.
Fr. Schuetz was only recently made
ehancetlor ot tlie diocese.
OBJECT TO REORGANIZATION
Of Boston & Maine R. R. Under Present
Arrangement.
Rutland, Oct. 5. .Strenuous objection
to the reorganization of the Boston
Maine railroad at present under way
with the guidance of the president of the
roiul and receiver under the distric
courts of Vermont and Massachusetts
James H. Hustis of Winchester,' Mass
waB the basis of the argument of Atty
C. Crooker of Boston before Judge Har
land B. Howe in United States court yes
terday. Atty. Crooker, appearing for
the Boston Minority Stockholders' Pro
tective association, seeks to intervene in
the receivership case and also intimated
in court Tuesday that if he obtained
standing in the court he will ask for the
release of the receivership.
Atty. Clark C. Fitts of Brattleboro
appearing for Judge Tyler and a number
of other small bond and stockholders
moved yesterday morning for the ap
pointment of a coreceiver nnd this was
argued at length loth by the Brattleboro
attorney and the Boston attorney, Judge
Howe luesday intimating that he did
not wish to try the Vermont branch of
the ease before the facts are heard in the
Massachusetts court, where the petition
was first filed.
The interests of the directors of the
defendant company and of Receiver Hus
tis were looked after by Atys. John G,
Sargent of Ludlow and W. B. C. Stiekney
of this city, who opposed the appoint
ment of a coreceiver.
Atty. Crooker again stated his claims
as to the mismanagement of the road,
while Atty. Fitts called the attention of
the court to the money matters of the
road. With more than $14,000,000 in
outstanding notes and over $10,000,000 in
cash in the coffers of the railroad, he
said, the directors refuse to pay any of
the notes.
Atty, Fitts in seeking the appointment
of a coreceiver said he did not question
for a moment the ability or the honesty
of Pres. Hustis, but he did think he was
a part of the reorganization, that he was
friendly with the majority of stoekliold
era and that he was thus, prejudiced or
biased in his stand on the coming reor
ganization of the road. Atty. Fitts
feared the road would under the admin
istration of Pres. Hustis spend enormous
-sums of money.
Atty. Stiekney for the receiver pointed
to the fact that within the past two years
the road had made immense profits and
that it would be only a question of time
when the road would be able to meet all
its financial obligations. Judge Howe in
timated that he thought this scheme
would work out in time, as long as the
property was a paving proposition and
the opposing interests had no objection
to or did not question the ability of the
present receiver.
Atty. Fitts in presenting his motion
suggested the name of Martin If. Brown
of Wilmington, a big lumber dealer, as a
satisfactory coreceiver. Judge Howe
questioned the advisability of naming
another receiver, who might be in direct
opposition to the present receiver, and
especially a man not familiar with the
railroad work and management.
The petition of the Boston creditors
for a right to intervene in the ease of
the Intercontinental Rubber (o. against
the Boston & Maine, in which the plain
tiff was successful in having a receiver
appointed, was held in abeyance by
Judge Howe, who intimated that he
would not allow the motion of Atty.
Fitts for the coreceiver.
VERMONT C. E.
ELECTS GILPIN
Barton Man Again Chosen
President of State
Organization
AT CONVENTION
IN M0NTPELIER
Services Were Well Attend
ed and Considered Very
Profitable
The closing sessions of the state union
of the Christian Endeavor Bociety, which
convened in Montpelier Tuesday morn
ing, were held yesterday afternoon and
evening, the afternoon meeting being de
voted to the election of officers and the
closing session was marked by the exccl-
cnt address given by Rev. A. W. Hewitt
of Plainfieh, member of the state board
of education. The convention enjoyed
an unusually large attendance this year
and waa considered one of the most prof
itable ever held.
Following is the list of officers elected
for the year ensuing: President, Wallace
H. Gilpin of Barton; vice-president, Key
Charles Adams of Danville; secretary,
Miss Emma Seaver of Barton; treasurer,
hauneey B. Story of Hyde Park; junior
superintendent, Mrs. H. A. Freeman of
Woodstock; superintendent of missions,
Miss Lenora Chamberlin of Montpelier;
assistant. Miss Olive Anderson of Mont
pelier; superintendent of Bible study and
evangelism, Rev. G. K. Robins of C'atle-
on; auditor, A. M. Maxneld of Johnson.
Manv of the delegates left last evening
for their respective homes and others
went on the morning trains to-day.
Rev. Fraser Metger of Randolph spoke
esterday afternoon on "Millions Cam
paign." I lie Children e Gujuen along
uiuor conference lines was discussed by
Miss Beulah Bates of Bennington, who is
Id secretary of the Maine Christian
.ndeavor union, while Mrs. imam
Milne of Barrc gave a demonstration of
what the Barre juniors are doing.
TRACK RECORD BROKEN.
RECOGNITION FOR CAPT. BARBER,
Ethel S. Went Mile in 2: mi at Wash-
ington Fair.
Washington fair closed last night after
the most successful exhibit in many
years. The crowd yesterday fell off con
siderably from the mark set by Tues
day's gate, but many were on the grounds
for a spirited racing card in the atter-
nnon. By dusk the midway was deserted
and most of the exhibits had been re
moved from floral hall. A list of the
premiums awarded will be ready for an
nouncement to-morrow. Officials of the
fair association are greatly pleased over
the attendance and in particular wish to
thank the Barre Hoard of Trade for its
assistance in making this year's exhibit
such a decided success.
In the race meet the winner of the
free-for-all, Kthel 8., owned by Charles
Miirtell of Williston, made a new track
record, thereby winning an additional
purse of $25. The former record of
2:17 was lowered by Ethel S. to 2:W
in the final heat of the last race. The
summary of the track events is given below.
2:2!) Class Purse $75.
Jessie Reaper, bm (Moniere, Bur
lington I 1 1 1
Reuben, be (McLcod, Barre) 2 2 2
lean, ba (Rounds, Burlington) ... 3 3dr
Time 2:34', 2:33, 2:32'a.
Exhibition Half-Milc Heats.
Connie Deen, sg (McLcod, Barre). 1 2 1
Lena W., bm (Mears, North Hunt-
pelier) 2
Time 1:23, 1:24, l:272.
Free-for-All Purse $125.
Ethel S.. ehm (MarteU, Williston
Onward Wilkes, bs (Little, North
Montpelier)
Daisy Queen, chm (Kittredge,
Woodsville, X. H.)
Jennie R., bm (Gray) White River
Junction)
Time 2:2Vi, 2:23'a, 2:16.
The starter was H. A. Rugg.
During the forenoon th judges were
busy with the awards on horses, cattle,
etc. In the matched pairs of horses, Cut
ler Bros, of Barre took first and Mr. Ro
han of East Orange second. First for
best pair of draught horses was won by
Abe Jacobs of Corinth. George Panton
of Randolph with a fine bay mare se
cured the blue and first for gentlemen's
single driver. During the forenoon
amusement and excitement was furnished
by a yoke of steers circling the track in
a' rampage and runaway. They were
finally secured without any damage being
done.
SHOOTING CASE
NOW ON TRIAL
Eusebio Albano of Barre,
Charged with Assault f
, with Intent to ';.ll .; i
5
LUIGI CHETYiT
Gyj ON STAND
Wounded Man Tells About
Affray on Webster
Ave., Barre -
1 2
i i i
4 2 2
3 3
4 4
Trial of Eusebio Albano, indicted hf
the grand jury in session last week for
assault with intent to kill Luigi Cheruti,
was commenced this forenoon in Wash
ington county court, the last of the civil
cases to be tried at the present term, hav
ing been finished yesterday afternoon
when a verdict for the defendant was rc
turned in the case of Edgar Taft vs.
Simeon Swerdferger, both of Marshfield.
Taft sought to recover the sumof $22,
claimed for rent of a barn. i
The jury empanelled this forenoon to
hear the evidence in the criminal casei
follows: Horace W. Davis of Northtield,
Reuben H. Downer of Waitsfield, Jack F
Maloney of Roxbury, Neal Tassie of
Woodbury, W. E. Hayford of East Mont
pelier, F. B. Kendall of Roxbury, Milton
Glines of Berlin, Alvah Newhall of Mid
dlesex, Robert Whelan of Montpelier, E
A. Lamphere of Calais and Charles Bul
lock of Marshfield.
HOUSED IN GRANITE STRUCTURE.
Largest Steam-Propelled Air Compressor
in New England at Boutwell, Milne
& Varnum's.
DIED IN BURLINGTON.
Mrs. Mary H. Parkyn Jackson, Widow
of Rev. S. N. Jackson.
Burlington, Oct. 5. Mrs. Mary IT
Parkyn Jackson, wife of the late Rev.
Samuel N, Jackson, died suddenly yes
terday noon at her residence, 25H Willard
street. The funeral, which will be pri
vate, will be held on Friday afternoon
at her late home and burial will be made
in Lakeviow cemei-erv.
Mrs. Jackson was Ixirn In Montreal on
February 22, 1H43, the daughter of Wil
liam and Margaret (Holmes) Parkyn.
She is survived by five sons, Dr. J.
Holmes Jackson and Dr. H. Nelson Jack
son of this city; Rev. William Parkyn
Jackson of St. Albans, S. Hollister Jack
son of Barre and Dr. J. Addison Jackson
of Los Angeles, Oal.
BURGLARS MADE SELECTIONS.
Left Silverware, But Stole Watches and
Jewelry in Burlington.
Burlington, Oct. 5. Two watches, sev
eral pieces of small jewelry, rings, stick
pins and two pendants were selected by
thief who visited the house of 1. G.
Fletcher, 311 .South Union street, between
3 and 5 yesterday afternoon. The rob
bery was committed while Mrs. Fletcher
was a way from the house. When she re
turned she found things all stirred up.
The thief had taken cases of silver from
the sideboard and then decided to leave
hem. He made entrance by means
he laundry window in the basement at
the rear of the house.
Col Reeves Commends Him For His Serv
ice at Eagle Pass.
In an official communication, Col. Ira
L. Reeves, commanding officer of the 1st
ermont infantry, gives the following
oinmendation of the services of Captain
C. N. Barber, commanding headquarters
company of the 1st ermont.
"My )ear Captain Barber: I wish to
take this opportunity to express to you,
just before the regiment is to be mus
tered out and we all return to our home
stations, my most -sincere thanks and
hearty appreciation of your loyalty and
faithfulness since we have been in the
federal service. Yours has probably been
the most trying position of all, and I am
glad to say that during the period of
almost four months I have not had at
any time occasion to question your loy
alty or your conscientious performance
of your duties. Your record is a most j
admirable one and I am glad of the honor
and opportunity of expressing my appre
ciation at this time. Whatever the fu
ture may bring forth, I want von to al
ways understand that I am highly ap
preciative of your assistance during those
months of intensive training, and in
which we have covered the work of a
year in only a few months.
v cry sincerely yours,
"Ira L. Reeves, Colonel 1st infantry."
PROBATE JUDGES ELECT
Judge Frank J. Martin of Barre President
of Association.
Probate judges met yesterday after
noon in the grand jury room of the
Washington county court house for
their annual meeting. Matters of inter
est to the judges in their work were dis
cussed during the afternoon and the fol
lowing officers were re-elected for th
year: President, Frank J. Martin of
Barre; vice-president, Clark of Cstle
ton; secretary and treasurer, Otis X
Kelton of St. Albans.
RUN OVER BY TEAM.
St
Albans Baby Said to Be in Favorable
Condition.
St. Albans, Oct. 5. Gertrude, the 14-month-old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Al
fred iShepard, suffered a fractured skull
Tuesday, when she was run over by
team driven by Fred Bombard. She was
trying to cross the street at the time.
Dr. J. G. Perrault and Dr. Alan David
son were called to attend the child, which
is said to be in a favorable condition.
DEATH OF YOUNG BANKER.
Henry G. Fuller of Burlington Was III
a Week with Throat Trouble.
Burlington. Oct. 5 Henry G. Fuller,
aged 32, a teller in the Burlington Sav
ings bank, died at his home here to-day
after a weeks illness with a throat trou
ble. He was a graduate of the Univer
sity of Vremont and an honor man. He
leaves his wife and two children.
DIED IN HOSPITAL.
Harry W. Stanton Recently Underwent
Serious Operation.
St. Johnsbury, Ovt. 5. Harry W. Stan
ton died Wednesday at Brightlook hospi
tal where he underwent a serious oper
ation the evening before and never ral
lied. Mr. Stanton was lorn January
11, lS4rt. at North Danville and spent
practically all his life there. He married
Maria Drew December 31, 1874, who died
a few years later. Of their two daugh
ters, one died in iiffjncy, the other lived
until after her marriage. He waa 70
years of age. For many years Mr. Stan
ton had made his home with George
Drew and there the funeral will be held
on Friday afternoon .'m2 o'clock. The
deceased was a member of the Junior
O. U. A M. of North Danville, and a
granger.
AGED VETERAN DEAD.
T. T. Snell of East Enosburg Was Nearly
90 Years Old.
East Enosburg, Oct. 5. T. T. Snell
died at 9:30 this morning on the farm
where he was born and brought up
death being due to old age. He would
have been 5)0 years of age had he lived
until Dec. 8 next. The funeral will be
held Saturday afternoon at 1 o'clock.
Mr. Snell was a veteran of the Civil
war, having enlisted in Co. K, 13th Ver
mont regiment. He was wounded at the
battle ot Gettysburg and shortly after
wards was discharged from the army,
His wife died a dozen years ago. One
son, Haydcn T. Snell of Fast Knosburg
survives. Mr. f-nell was prominent in
the Baptist church and was one of sev
eral who were instrumental in raising
money to build the church here.
ACCUSED IN MONTPELIER.
HEARS SON IS SHOT.
Montgomery Center Man Did Not Know
Where F. L. Duffy Was Till Then.
Montgomery Center, Oct. 5. Daniel
Duffy of th east hill received a telrgram
yesterday from the war department in
Ottawa saying that his son. F. L, Duffy,
is in a war hospital in France, having
ben shut through the head and shoulder.
Up to the time of receiving the message
E. A. Preemo Charged with Driving Auto
While Intoxicated.
A man named E. A. Preemo of Barre
was airested in Montpelier last evening
on the charge of driving an automobile
while intoxicated. He was accompanied
by his little sister and was permitted
by the police to go to his home in Barre
by electric car, to return to Montpelier
this afternoon for a hearing.
WOMAN TRIED SUICIDE IN VAIN.
Edith Morway of Burlington Took Gas
Last Night.
Burlington, Oct. 5. Edith Morway, a
young woman, made an unsuccessful at
tempt to commit uicide last night by
Mr. Duffy did not know where bis son taking gas. The cause of her act was a
was. love affair.
A granite walled structure of spacious
proportions houses the largest steam-
propelled air compressor in New England
in the new power plant which Boutwell,
Milne & Varnum used at their quarries
in Graniteville for the first time this
forenoon. For the first time since the
granite quarrying industry was devel
oped on Millstone hill, the native stone
is used in erecting a powerhouse that is
probably the most thoroughly equipped
plant of its kind in Vermont. The out
side walls of the structure have lateral
dimensions of f!5 and 50 feet with a
height of 24 feet. The facing of the
granite-brick wall is of broken ashlar
finish. Not a stick of wood was used in
the construction of the building, even the
window sashes being of steel. It is lo
cated near the main road leading to the
first quarry and easy of access to the
artificial pond from which the company
supplies its compressor.
Excavations for the powerhouse were
started in April and except for the floors,
the building was completed Aug. 1. Four
thousand cubic feet of stone from the
Boutwell, Milne & Varnum quarries, six
carloads of brick and four carloads of
Portland cement were used. Steel and
concrete were used for the roof and ce
ment for the floors. In connecting all
of the quarries with the compressed air
over two carloads of pipe were required.
In every sense of the word as used by
modern builders, the plant is fireproof.
Quarried near the scene of the building
operations, the stone was cut by the
company's cutters and the masonry was
in charge of John Miglierini of Mont
pelier. The machinery was shipped from
Philipsburg, X. J.. Sept. 14 and arrived
in the Barre freight yards Sept. 17. J. I .
Galleher, the Central Vermont agent at
the capital, accompanied the machinery
from the factory and its quicK transit
was due in part to his activity.
In conjunction with the plant construc
tion a coal trestle has been erected and
large, steel hopper cars readily dump the
fuel into a bin commodious enough to
hold a year's supply.
The air equipment centers around a
two-stage air compressor manufactured
by the Ingcrsoll-Raml Co. at its Philips
burg plant and is guaranteed to deliver
3,770 cubic feet of free air per minute
compressed to 100 pounds pressure, being
operated by a cross-compound Corliss en
gine, lne hign pressure steam cynnnrrs
have a diameter ot 21 inches, the low
pressure cylinders 40 inches. The diam
eter of the high' pressure air cylinders
is 22Vj inches, the low pressure air cyl
inders 36 inches. The stroke is 30 inches.
The engine is rated to deliver 675 horse
Kwer and steam is furnished by a 235
horsepower horizontal boiler carrying lf!0
pounds of steam pressure and is equipped
with a superheater. A surface condenser
completes the equipment of the engine.
Used in conjunction with the condenser
and superheater, the outfit is guaranteed
not to require more than 12vi pounds of
steam per horsepower per hour.
Until the company Degan to operate
its new plant. 900 cubic feet of air per
minute, furnished by a much smaller
eompre-sor, was used entirely tor plug
drilling. Additional air now available
will be used to operate large rock drills
that were previously operated by steam.
Four boilers are discarded with the new
plant in use.
A shooting affray, which occurred Sun
day morning, July 2, on Webster avenue,
Barre, in which Albano, it is alleged,
shot and wounded, although not serious
ly, Luigi Cheruti, is the cause of Alba no's
indictment. He was arraigned this morn
ing before Judge Frank L. Fish and
pleaded not guilty.
Albano and his wife, according to the
opening statement made by the state,
were not living together at the time ot
the alleged shooting, and Cheruti was a.
boarder at the home of Mrs. Albano on
Webster avenue. The state asserted thae
it would endeavor to show that Albano
went to the Webster avenue house
through back streets, shot Cheruti at tha
house almost immediately upon his ar
rival and after a scuffle in which Cheruti
took away the revolver from h assail
ant, Albano disappeared. It will be re
called that Albano was later located in
New York City and brought back to
Vermont. He has been out on bail of
$5,000.
Cheruti was the first witness put on
by the state this forenoon and told his
version of the alleged assault. The serv
ices of an interpreter will evidently bo
necessary throughout the trial.
Cheuti's cross-examination had not;
been finished when . the court took a.,
recess at noon. The efforts of the de-
fense were to prove that Albano's pur
pose in going to the house was to order
Cheruti to leave and that Cheruti de:
dared he would shoot Albano. The de
fense, then, will probably be that Albano
tired in self-defense against Cheruti who
was a boarder in the house of Mr. Albano.
FELL UNDER TRUCK WHEEL.
Ralph Whitney of Williamstown Had Leg
Broken.
Ralph Whitney, 10-year-old son of Mr..
and Mrs. Eugene Whitney of Williams-;
town, sustained a complete fracture of
the right leg below the knee this morn
ing when he was run over by a heavily
laden grain truck. The accident oc-'
enrred in front of Judge Beckett's house
in Williamstown. Whitney and a num
ber of other lads were trying to get
aboard the track, when Whitney, who
was running between a fore and rear'
wheel, slipped and fell, one wheel pass-,'
ing over the leg. He was carried into:
the office of Dr. A. A. Cross, where the
fracture was reduced. A man named
Hayward from Randolph owns the truck,
which bad just been loaded with grain:
at the Seaver mill. Several boys had;
hopped aboard the truck when Whitney
fell.
MEARS BEATTIE.
FUNERAL OF MURD0CK PATERS0N
Held from His Late Home on Highland
Ave.
The funeral of Murdoek Patterson.
wh'e death occurred at his home, 7
Highland aienue. Monday evening, was
held at the house Wednesday afternoon
Barre Girl Married to a Former Barre
Young Man.
A quiet autumn wedding took place all
the home of Mr. and Mrs. David Beattie '.
of '59 Brook street Wednesday afternoon,
when their eldest daughter, Jessie An-j
derson Beattie, was married to William .
Mears of Haverhill, Mass. Rev. J. B. !
Reardon. tiastor of the Universalis
church, performed the ceremony and bride
and groom were unattended. The bride
is a graduate of the training school for
the Claremont, N. H., hospital
and is very favorably known in Barre. t
Mr. Mears, a former resident of this city,
is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Fred W. (
Mears of Haverhill, Mass. They are to
reside in Haverhill. ,
BUYS GRANITE BUSINESS.
ew South Barre Co. Buys Adie &. Milne
Concern. j
An important transaction in the Barre,
granite belt was recently closed whereby'
I'. Abbiatti, Morrairi. C. Cozzi, Charle !
IWusetti and M. bertolini, forming
co-partnership under the name of the
South Harre firamie to., Dougni - toe .
at 2:30 o'clock. Rev. 15. ;. Lipky. pas- j plant, equipment and good wiU of the,
tor of the Iledding Methodist church, offi-j tirm. formerly known as the Adie A,'
ciating. The bearers were: .lara. s Levie, j Milne t o., situated on time street as
sr., William Cole, John Reynolds. Nidi-(the south end. Several members of tne;
olas Veale, George Mitchell and Lewis: new firm have been connected with the
Jonea. There were numerous fl.rsl trib- stone business in larre in aome way or
utes. Interment was made in the fam-lot her fr twenty years or even longer 1
lv lot in Kim wood cemeierv, the Clan and, therefore, are
trordun crke bein? used. l'H granite.
nil trained in hand-
