rh
c
CLATTON, NSW MEXICO, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916
NO. 39
CITIZEN
Í
VOLUME 1
EX-GOV. GIDDINGS OF MICHIGAN
ADDRESSES LARGE AUDI
ENCE AT DIXIE
Discusses Vital Issues of the Day in
Most Able Manner
The Dixie Theater was taxed to its
utmost capacity last evening, when
Ex-Governor Giddings, formerly of
Michigan, but now a resident of New
Mexico, delivered an able and eloquent
address to a large and enthusiastic
audience.
Any. II. P. Woodward, with Don
Riep.ido Casa.lo3 as interpreter, made
a s'irt t-i!'.: while I!. II. Errett and
Don Lv.cEs Gallegos passed applica
tion cards for membership in the Re
publican Club. Mr. Woodward gaye
place to Judire O. T. Toombs, who,
with Don Malaquias Baca as interpre-
inga to be erected at Santa Fa, Raton,
and Let Vegas, but the administration
took the money to cover the deficit in
the Treasury. The state of Maine has
repudiated this administration by the
election of a Republican Senator by
the biggest republican majority ever
given there."
"The Adamson law benefits only a
very small portion of the working
world and that is only temporary,
Wait until after the election is over
and see if that law will stand. Has
it benefitted the "snipes" of the rail
road, the men who keep1 the road beds
n repair 'and V'hos? neglect of their
duty would mean the loss of human
lives ? No, not one dollar's worth.
Neither has it benefitted the agents
operators, freight "rustlers" nor all
the other employees outside of the
trainmeris' brotherhood."
."We can illustrate our prosperity
THE NOMINEES
ter, introduced the speaker of the ev
ening, Ex-Governor J. Wight Giddings by the following Utte joke Three
of the state ot Michigan, uov. urn- ,itte were bemg ftsked by theif
dings Opened his speecn witi) a snorv, teacher what they had to be thankful
eulogy of Bob fcrvien, me canuiuate for The first Qne had b, blue eyeg
for Public Land Commissioner, saying th t .ppo .,.. nf HmimHnn in
that he was proud to know "Bob" and her frends The gec0Jld had j
that he was "Bob to everyoouy, blwn hajr that WQn for her much
v.nerever ne went, c-rvien ctnm,,,, admiration. The third was freckled,
is a man ot the people and nas always red.hea)ied and very homely.
been. He is a Inenu to everyone anu Now Maryi gaiJ the toneher what
a loyal friend. His record in me puo
lic office he has so ably filled the past
three an J one half years, is above re
nniAch and is an enviable one. He has
mt
been the best friend the small home
steader ever had. He has advocated
are you thankful for?" "Why, teach
er, I am thankful for my blue eyes
that my friends admire so much." .'
"And Sue,- what are . you thankful
for?" Why. teacher, for mv orettv
brown hair that they say is so beauti-1
"Nothin' teacher. God Tiiirfc
. , - -r
tne near mint me."
thf greatest num- And thigjs the case with the Wilson
small ranches and many of them and ful
has selected the. lands ha has otrereci And, Sally, what are you thankful
for public sale vith the utmost care, for7
having tn mind; all the' time,-
. gi-eatest good t
i ,, - i i . . . . . H. .
Der. . , I administration. The Xt.ee nnri nm.
Gov. CiUdinjrs comparecí ' the situ- muntion' factories and the Standard
ation now to the s'tual'on at the qu bave Kreat Kast)n to be thankful,
cjose of the Civil War, when puces but the common . people, like the
wofc aq(Kigh and.Tljf country in ysuch fretked git are.nearly 'ruint "
an-unsettled, spas, iney re no .v interesting discourse was end-
looking to the Republican5 ptrtty' to" ed r, ,aOT1 eal to a intelligent vot-
come to the rescue," he said, "the cry ers' to wegn matfers well before cast-
of the Democratic party is "prosper
For President
CHARLES E. HUGHES
For Vice-President
CHARLES FAIRBANKS
For Presidential Electors
C. L. HILL, Las Cruces.
H. J. HAMMOND, Clayton
JUAN ORTIZ, Santa Fe.
For U. S. Senator
FRANK A. IIUECELL
For Congressman
B. C. HERNANDEZ
For Attorney General
FRANK W. CLANCY
For Governor
HOLM 0. BURSUM
For Lietenant Governor
W. E. LINDSEY
For Justice Supreme Court
CLARENCE J. ROBERTS
For Secretary of State
. GILBERTO MIRABAL
For Corporation Commissioner-
MALAQUIAS MARTINEZ
For State Auditor
W. G. SARGENT
For State Treasurer
GREGORY PAGE
For Superintendent of Schools-
J. H. WAGNER
For Land Commissioner
R. P. ERVIEN
For District Attorney .
ORIE L. PHILLIPS
SO THAT THE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
"Oct. 1st 1915
Hon. Thos. McBride, County Treas.
Raton, New Mexico.
Dear Mr. McBride:
With reference to the tax sale cer
tificates recently purchased bv Mr.
suit. There were no mandamus suits
brought for the very good reason that
it was well known that such a suit
could not be maintained. Therefore,
the tax speculator could not "have
much success" in Colfax county. (Last
McGlashan of Trinidad, beg to advise yar when the Citizen called atten-
that we have gone into the matter t'on to these matters, and prior to
very carefully and have reached the doing so its editor at that time beg
conclusion that since these certificates K1'1' that no such action as was taken
were not advertised at the time of the oe taken in the premises,) in order to
regular sale for delinquent taxes for
the years 1913 and 1914 ns required
save the taxpayer as much as possible
after such action had been taken, it
- "an
" ityv proijtffcsav and he kept . us out of
' war.' ' -líe poinl&Stit f.St Vices
are higher . for .produce of all kinds
than ever before while wages aré still
the sarat.-; The women of Denver have
Tié-jmplTed to band -together and
ANNOUNCEMENTS
T. J. CRUMLEY
. '. T. J. Crumley' announces his
candidacy for the republican
nomination for sheriff of Un
ion county, and earnestly soli
. cita your support in the repub
lican convention. -.
. . JOHN L. HILL
W.e are authorized to an
nounce John L. Hill as a candi
dateor the nomination for the.
office of Sheriff at the Repub
lican County Convention." .
ing their votes on. the seVehth of next
month, and to be-sure that" they were
acquainted with the records of the
men they were to Wve'run their' pub
lie affairs .the coming term,
Atty. Woodward announced 'that
Hon. Holm O. Riirstim. VnnHMntp fnr
ásk the President to Vutrna pmbargo Governor, would, sneak af the court
on the shipping or iooa-stuns to cu- house Wednesday afternoon of nextf "I .am having a competent printer
rope, .is ii nut v.y " weeK at ü:3U. (JjtizeTis, you owe it -to , measure the publication, and also de.
penty should tie nought witn tne yourselves to hear Bur'suhfs speech i termine what would have been the
bloo: ot our fellow men over m Eu
rope? What is causing
perity" of this nation
fart, that w( are assisting those in I him
v
icn over m fcu- anl tnen you can judgtf for yourselves! size of thesame had it complied with j an jnjüsticé" to' such'citizens and tax'-:
ig all the "pros- as to his ability. Take no man's . the statute. It weuld maki a differ-, payers by enforcing th' laws'?'. The '
if it is not the W0R-. for. bs record but go and h.earj ence of several hundred dollars to the I tax speculator' threatened ;to manda-
' ' Vlvwir' zone Jceepjjt-ig. The
; two BILLION dollar 'cmfeTess-ithat
recently adjourned does " not spell
economy nor efficiency. Why have
.we paid a war inX'ipr three years
past jf the country-has' éen so pros
neroust Was it Necessary to send?
HEAR YE! HEAR YÉ1
"You GottaJ Quit .Kickin' .My pawg
Aroun'"
all our troops to thborder a the ex- o,,. Board of. County Com-
-pense of the taxpayers .of eat.ion ?. ers, of Union County, N. M.
It certainly has-feetr most expensive
and evidently was NOT necessary,
since nothing has beert done.
To quote from hr$ speech:. "The pol
icy of Woodrow' "Wilson is 'Watth,
Wait, Wobble -and-' : Withdraw. He
renigged on the Free Trade question.
I invite any democrat present to dis
cuss Free Trade and Protection with
me at any time."
taxpayers of the county.. When- the
printer reports to me. I. will, advise
you the amount the county should pay
the publishers. You shouü pay only
what a cOrfectr publication would have
cost and advíáe the printers to" look to
thé Treásurer personally for the baf-
ance.' Of - course should you not see
fit to follow my advice in the matter it
will be necessary for me to bring legal
proceedings to protect the" county's
interests.
Yours very truly,
0. L. Phillips, Ass't. Dist. Atty."
by section 36 Chapter 81 Laws of ! was "set upon" by the so-called "of-'
ficial organs by all the lying abuse
at their command while the tax spec
ulator reaped, and is still reaping, a
rich harvest in Union county under
jimmycratic administration, that was
denied him in Colfax county under the
republican administration, and Union
county could and would have had, for
the mere asking, the same, advice and
support. Now, Mr. Union County Vo
ter, no matter whether you call your
a republican, a democrat, a socialist or
a jimmycrat, do you think you are
ever going to have anything any bet
ter in Union countyunder jimmycratic
rule ? We tell you Nay. Do you want
a continuance of these czardic condi
tions? There is at present no demo
cracy in action in Union county, the
State of New Mexico, nor the United .
States of America. Do.i't mistake -Jimmyocraey
for democracy. Jim
myocracy is now in the saddle. Do
you want to keep it there ? If you. '
do then vote the jimmycratic ticket
from constable to president. If you '
do' not, then vote for 0. L. Phillips
for district attorney, who blocked the ;
gamé of the tax speculator in Colfax .
county and would have done the same
thing" for Union had he been asked,
together wih tha whole republican
titketfrom A to Izard. We know of
a: personal frien j who pnid tv.-o him-
dred dollars o the tax speculator "for
j a quitclaim on ICO acres of land which
he though-he Qwned clear of all in'
cumbrauqtis;, besides there are numeS
ous instances, jn the town of Folsora
and other arts of Union ocunty. Do
yoy .wnt .any more of such so-called
democratic administration ? Are you"
kwilling.to again be offered up to tax
speculation . andi maladministration ?
If so, just vote the jimmycratic ticket-'
tht wilt be offered you ' after the
niujhto the fifteenth of October when
ttíé geat jimmycratic convention will
have its resolutions commitee fail to'
tell of the "great achievements"
wrought' by ttie gang in the last two
i
VJ1Ó due to the fact that the costs of
any such advertisement would have
been prohibitive, that the sales to Mc
Glashan are invalid and the owners
may still come in and redeem. We
therefore advise you not to issue a
deed to McGlashan for these certifi
cates. This will enable you to prevent
; an injustice to our citizens owning
the property in question. We realize
that you do not desire to issue this
deed if it can be legally avoided and
we think it can and we will defend any
mandamus suit which may be brought
against you.
Yoiirs very sincerely,
0. L. Phillips, Ass't Dist Atty."
This, Mr. Delinquent Taxpayer, ex
plains why the tax speculator could
not "have much success" in Colfax
county. When a tax speculator is
granted a treasurer's deed to your
land( no matter how illegal it may be,
I he has a eoin lover that is remark
: ably strong in prying you loose from
your land or dollars. It would seem
from the above letter of advice from
'the assistant district attorney to the
I treasurer of. Colfax county, that said
treasurer sought the advice of the dis'
trict attorney's pffice before turning
; his fellowmen ruthlessly over to the
I tender mercies of' the merciless, tax
speculator, and had . no difficulty in
obtaining úch jidvice .as... protected
il ' XI. . Í 1 A.
them from an injustice hat might,
have been vjsitel upgn -there and .such
as has fallen to tjie lqt of mapy in Un
ion county. Did the assistant district,:
.. attorney in thé above letter, of advice
i show that he is usipg, bis VnTice to
help along the foreign, sécula tor. who
feeds upon the misfortunes. of others
or did he'shdw that, he js usinjj his of
fice' Jo fótect the,tghtí-pf. our citi
zens and táxpay.erí and p "prevent
mus the" Golfnx'counly treasurer.' l&a
ice in. the above. that the district 'at
torney "stood behind the treasurer
ready to defend him in any mandamus
years.
Clayton, New Mexico.
"Gentlemen:
Certain complaints have been re
ceived by me from taxpayers of your
county, with reference to the publica
tion of the 1914 Delinquent Tax list of PRESIDENT SNUBS OPPOSING
Union County.. This publication was j VOTERS
printed in the July 22nd 1916 issue
and other issues of the Clayton News 'Stung by Criticism by Head of Truth
in English and also in Spanish in the
"What War has Wilson kept us out i a Union del Pueblo.
of? Has there ever been any danger
(except in the newspapers) of our ev- '
er going to war? When Grant was
in the Presidential chair and the great
Franco-Prussian war was in progress,'
was anybody nervous? Was there,
any danger of our becoming involved?-
"This publication should have been
Society, Wilson Sends Terse Defy
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. 29. Pres-
made or commenced within forty-five ! ident Wilson tonight expressed indig-
days after June 1st., 1915, instead of
1916. The statutory provisions regu
lating it are found in Chapter 58 of
the 1915 laws of New Mexico.
"The publication is grossly padded,
"When Theodore Roosevelt was s contrary to advice we have given
President and the Japanese-Russian the County Treasurer and in direct vi
vnr was waging, were we not in as ' olation of the provision of the statute.
PARTIAL CROP REPORT
of them in that our beans mature earl
ier than theirs. G. H. Blaine was in
the city, today He is one of t'..e men
who has .made a good crop ever since
he came to New Mexico. Thli year
he hps sold 25 tons of broom-corn to
We are beginning to receiye reports
from different portions of the county
as to what has been raised and is be
ing marketed.' .
Alfred Gibbons of Sedan . has L4 ' Otto-Johnson Merc. Co., for $160 per
tons of fine broom corn and 8 acres of ton. He has 30 acres of fine beans,
beans, which will net him a tidy sum., his corn will averace 25 bushels to
great danger of becoming involved
with Japan, according to the newspa
pers, as we have ever been with Eu
rope under the Wilson administra
tion? Yes, but 'he kept us out of
war' and those two great nations, Ja
pan and Russia, sent their emissaries
over here for Roosevelt's assistance
in settling their difficulties.
"Whenever the attention of our
democratic friends is called to condi
tions as they exist they say, "Tain't
no." The fact that we have been pay
ing war tax in time of peace is mere
ly "psychologic." Money was appro
priated by Congress for public build-
"Kor instance, the descriptions of
each parcel of property, on which tax
es were delinquent, were inserted.
"I quote from Chapter 58 as follows:
"Such notice shall contain an al
phabetical list of the names of
the owners of the property notice
of the sale of which is advertised,
and opposite each name shall be
set forth the amount of the taxes
delinquent upon the property of
the persons, so named, as shown
by the tax rolls, together with the
interest and costs. NO DESCRIP
TION OF SAID PROPERTY
SHALL BE INSERTED."
nation over a telegram from Jeremiah
A. O'Leary of New York, president of
the American Truth society, accusing
him of being pro-British and saying
he had failed to obtain compliance
with American rights.
The president sent Mr. O'Leary a
short telegram which officials, indicat
ed Mr. Wilson had desired to put in
stronger language. The message fol
lows: "Your telegram received. I would
feel deeply mortified to have you or
anybody like you vote for me. Since
you have access to ninny disloyal Am
ericans and I have not, I will ask you
to convey this message to them."
Speaks for Voters
Mr. O'Lcary's telegram, given out
by the president, follows:
"Again we gret you with a popular
disapproval of your pro-British poli
cies last year from the Twenty-third
Continued on page 5)
Frank Martinez, living at Delfin, rais
ed 40 acres of fine wheat, which test
ed 60 pounds to the bushel and yield
ed 22 bu. per acre. This, at $1.50
per bu. will not be a bad summer's
work. Frank Hoover near town has
30 acres of the finest beans. There
were 45 pods on one stalk or enough!
for a large meal for a family. C. D.
Wiggins of Tate has fine beans, can
taloupes and Sudan grass. The su
dan he was quite disgusted with early
in the season as it seemed to be at a
standstill, and he was tempted to
plow it up. He left it as an experi
ment and the last rain brought it
along so fast that in three weeks it
was higher than his head and has ma
tured wonderfully. He thinks sudan
is going to be a fine dry weather crop.
Roy Garrity sold 2800 pounds of fri
joles a short while back to the II.
Herzstein Seed Co., at $6.05. The har
vesting will be done and
the acre and he is feeding 75 hogs
which are doing nicely. lie is in ex
cellent spirits and thinks this is one
of the best farming countries any
where to be foun:'. He certainly un
derstands farming and such citizens
as he, are valuable to any state.
! Program for Baptist Ladies' Aid
To meet at the home of Mrs. Rixey
on Tuesday, October 10th. Answer to
roll call by verses of scripture. 1st,
Women of the Bible, Mrs. Beatty. 2nd,
Miss Neck's last message to the union,
Mrs. Nill. 3rd, the Union in review,
Mrs. Suthers. 4th, Our work among
the Indians, Mrs. Edmondson. 5th, Our
Nome Mission fund, Mrs. Dyche.
E. D. Strohm bought the fine exhibit
of J. C. Smith and C. C. Edmondson,
which was displayed at the County
Fair and which took several premi-
grain and urns. He will install this display in
produce will begin to roll in. Already , his real estate office in the K. P.
the broom corn and bean buyers are building.
in the market and prices are soaring,) i A. J. McDonald and J. MercedGon
but we would advise all those having znles have been appointed by GoVern
early beans to dispose of them as the or McDonald as delegates from Union
market will in nil probability drop county to the International Irrigation
when the Colorado crop of pintos be- Congress, which meets soon at El
gin to come in. We have advantage Paso.
