Or?eon Historical Society
Stock F.vct'nnco BiiljtrtTi
Tim
VOL.33. NO. 28
HEPPNER, OREGON, OCTOI'.EB 5, 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION, 1.50 PER YEAR
iHinrTr
Gazette
voter 1st pass 1
on 11 measures;
November liallot Will Contain Eight
Initiative Measures and Three
Which Are Referred to the
People by the Legislative
Assembly.
The voters of the State of Oregon
will be greeted by eleven proposed 1
constitutional amendments and meas-!
ures when they go to the polls on the
November election day. Besides
there will be a string of candidates to
choose.
The measures referred to the peo
ple by the Legislative Assembly will
appear on the ballot in the following
manner.
Submitted by the Legislature Single
Item Veto Ainendnient-An amend
ment to Section 15 of Article V of
the constitution of the State of Ore
gon authorizing the Governor to
veto single items in appropriation
bills. Vote YES or NO.
Submitted by the Legislature Ship
Tax Exemption Amendment An
amendment to Article IX of the
Constitution of the State of Oregon
exempting from taxation until Jan
uary 1st, 1935, except taxes for
State purposes only, all ships and
vessels of fifty tonB or more capac
ity engaged in either passenger or
freight coasting or foreign trade, j
whose home ports of registration
are in the State of Oregon, for the
purpose of encouraging registra
tion of such vessels in Oregon,
which would otherwise register in
other states. Vote YES or NO.
Submitted by the Legislature Negro
and Mulatto Suffrage Amendnient
An amendment to the Constitution
of the State of Oregon, removing
discrimination against the negro
and mulatto citizens by repealing
Section 6 of Article II thereof,
which reads as follows: "No Ne
gro, Chinaman or mulatto shall
have the right of suffrage," Vote
YES or NO.
PKOrOSED BY INITIATIVE PETI
TION Initiated by Oregon State Federation
of Labor, T. H. Burchard, Presi
dent; E. J. Stack, Secretary, 302
Oregonian Building, Portland, Ore
gon; and the Central Labor Coun
cil of Portland and Vicinity, Eu
gene E. Smith, President; A. W.
Jones, Vice-President; E. J. Stack,
Secretary, 162 Second Street,
Portland, Oregon. Full . Rental
Value Land Tax and Homesteaders'
Loan Fund Amendment Purpose
A constitutional amendment de
claring and defining (a) people's
power and right; (b) citizen's right
to use of land; (c) public owner
ship of land rent; (d) public policy
of Oregon: defining (e) the word
land" (f) method of appraising
land rent; (g)land improvement;
providing for (h) levy of perman
ent land rent tax; (i) publication
of assessment; (J) delinquent tax
sale; (k) maintenance of private
property rights; (1) separate as
sessment of land rent; (m) stand
ing timber; (n) assessment and
collection of tax; (o) duty of Gov
ernor and State Land Board; (p)
how personal property and land
Improvements may be taxed by
vote of people only; (q) distribu
tion of revenue from land rent tax;
and (r) establishing homemakers"
loan fund. Vote YES or NO.
Initiated by the Commercial Associa
tion of the City of Pendleton, W. E.
Brock, President; C. K. Cranston,
Secretary. For Pendleton Normal
School and Ratifying Location Cer
tain State Institutions Purpose
To provide for locating a State Nor
mal School at Pendleton, Oregon,
upon a site to be donated therefor,
appropriating $125,000 for build
ings and equipment and levying an
annual tax of one twenty-fifth of a
mill in all property In the state for
its maintenance, and ratifying the
location of certain state institutions
heretofore located away from the
State Capital. Vote YES or NO.
Initiated by Lora C; Little Antl.
Compulsory Vaccination Bill Pur
pose To prohibit compulsory vac
cination, inoculation and other
such treatment for the prevention
or cure of contagious or Infectious
diseases, and providing a penalty
therefor. Vote YES or NO.
Initiated by Committee of Indepen
dent Retailers Association of Port
land, Oregon, Dan Kellaher, Pres
ident, 133 Grand Avenue, Port
land, Oregon; Ben A. Bellamy, Ex
ecutive Committee, 401 Hawthorne
; Avenue, Portland, Oregon; S. S.
' Rich, Executive Committee, 267
J Morrison Street, Portland, Oregon;
C. E. Munro, Executive Committee,
' Commercial Club Building, Fort-
land, Oregon. Hill Repealing and
Abolishing the Sunday Closing Law
-Purpose To repeal Section 2125,
of Lord's Oregon Laws, which pro
hibits the keeping open of any
store, shop, grocery, bowling alley,
billiard room, or tippling house, for
the purpose of labor or traffic, or
any place of amusement on Sunday
or the Lord's Day, excepting thea
ters, drug stores, doctor shops, un
dertakers, livery stables, butchers
and bakers, under penalty of a fine
of not less than $5 nor more than
$50. Vote YES or NO.
Initiated by Equal Rights for Home
Industry Committee, C. E. S. Wood,
Chairman, 254 Vista Avenue, Port-:ing
land, Oregon; C. T. Haas, Secre-I.
tary, 206 Stock Exchange Building, , , .
Portland, Oregon. - Permitting company s lands painted up and put
Manufacture and Regulated Sale In more presentable appearance and
Four Per Cent Malt Liquors Pur- iias sent out the material to care for
pose To amend Section 36, Ar- at least geven different residences
tide I, Oregon Constitution, which wllile out nortll the first of the week
prohibits manufacture and sale of Mr Honey gathered in some fine
intoxicating liquor, by permitting gampies of dry land corn and for
the manufacture of fermented malt i warded a buncn of tne matured ears
liquors containing four per cent orito the head of the company m Daic0.
less of alcohol, for shipment out- at A part of tne tne corn came
side of this state and for sale and ; rom tue Newlon-Smith dry , farm
delivery within the state by the! ortheast of Lexington and other sam
. manufacturer in original packages pleg were from the Hale ranch -still
only, in quantities and under reg- Iartner north and across Sand Hollow
ulations which may be provided by , hlch ls now D8mg operated by anoth
law. Until otherwise provided such er dry-land enthusiast. This may
sales within the state shall be lim- nave been an exceptionally good year
ited to the same quantity as may ; for corn owing t0 more moisture than
now be imported, but same persons common during the growing season,
cannot, within any one period fixed but the gampieg ghown by Mr. Honey
by law, both import and buy lo-' funy demonstrated that corn of ex
cally. Vote YES or NO. jcellent quality can be raised in that
Initiated by Oregon Prohibition State Part of the county wlthout Irrigation
Committee, J. P. Newell, Chairman, and Is a crP- A silo will
9 fin-klin Rnilrtine. Portland. Put UP on the Hale Place' 80 Mr-
Oregon; J. Sanger Fox, Executive Honey states and the Present owner
Secretary, 414 Behnke-Walker contemplates going into dairy stock
Building, Portland, OregonPro- Que extensively. The proper treat
hlhition Amendment Forbidding nt f tlle 8oil ut that "f with
Importation of Intoxicating Liquors to conserva on of moisture will
for Beverage Purposes-Purpose- bring about excellent returns and we
This is a constitutional amendment ar gratified to note the good results
extending the existing constitution- 80 far obtained,
al provision, relating to the pro- Lawrence Shutt has "taken to the
hibition of the manufacture and j oad" and departed Monday for points
sale of intoxicating liquor, by also j on the main line in UmatiHa county
prohibiting the importation of in- where he will take up the work of
toxicating liquors for beverage pur-soliciting for the Review of Reviews,
poses. Vote YES or NO. land also sell toilet articles. Law-
Irannfl oflva thov nnlH him nut nf A. inb
Initiated by the Oregon Referendum;
League: C. E. Spence, Master Ore-
gun omit! u.aufic, vy.w"
Oregon; J. D. Brown, President,
Oregon-Southern-Idaho Farmers'
Educational and Co-operative Un
ion, Arlington, Oregon; T. H. Bur
chard, Ex-President Oregon State
Federation of Labor, 829 Eleventh
Street North, Portland, Oregon.
Rural CiHts Amendment Pur-
pose To bond state for not over!
two per cent of assessed valuation I
of all property therein for "Rural
Credits Fund." Bonds from $25.-1
00 to $1000 in series of $50,000,
maturing in not over 36 years, In
terest four per cent, exempt from
taxes. State to loan said fund to
owners occupying farm lands, on
mortgages not over half land value
nor $50 per acre, nor less than
$200 nor more than $5000 to one
person, small loans preferred.
Loans made for: (a) payment for
land; (b) purchasing livestock and
equipment and making improve
ments; (c) satisfying incumbrances
Incurred for such purposes, inter
est five per cent. Vote YES or NO.
Initiated by State Tax Payers' Lea
gue, Walter M. Pierce, President,
La Grande, Oregon; C. L. Hawley,
Vice-President, McCoy, Oregon; J.
A. Westerlund, VicePresident, Med
ford, Oregon; A. M. LaFollett, Vice
President, Salem, Oregon; Robt. E.
Smith, Secretary-Treasurer, Rose
burg, Oregon. State-Wide Tax
and Indebtedness Limitation Am
endment Pu rpose Li m i ti n g tax
levies of State, County, municipal
ity or other taxing power to not
more than the total amount levied
the last preceding year plus six per
centum thereof, except for paying
bonded indebtedness and interest
thereon, or by vote of people, any
increase so voted excluded in de
termining subsequent tax; limited
power of counties to incur Indebt
edness to $5000, either voluntarily
or when imposed by law, except to
suppress insurrection or repel in
vasion, or not over two per cent of
assessed valuation for permanent
roads on vote of people; and inval
idating debts, payments and taxes
exceeding such limitations. Vote
YES or NO.
Wild Cat Once a "Tabby."
When a fire warden shot a strange
animal on Mount Emily's peak near
La Grande and didn't know what it
I was but realized it resembled a large
house cat, he slew a pet tabby that
strayed from a mountain cabin In that
.vicinity almost five years ago.
In its response to the call of the
I wild, It had wintered ten feet of snow
escaped coyotes and predatory ani
mals, hunters and trappers. The iso
lation doubled its size and made It a
wild beast.
j J. H. Bluemensteln, a mountaineer,
Identified the carcass as his lost kitty.
Weston Leader.
0
IN I01E COUNTRY
Oregon-Dakota Land Company Will
Make Improvements. Other
News Notes From Our
lone Writer.
W. F. Honey of the Oregon-Dakota
Land Company has been in lone dur-
the past week. He is arranging
llQ0 tha , ,,,, t.
' . f diRI)ORed 0, tll mllk
herd, and he just has to do something.
iThniieh hnrtlv handlcaDDed on ac-
count of his rg lit, Lawrence is a
hustler and we tre satisfied, he will
sue-)-! tuli) no.v vft-.iure
A. M. Zlnk has closed his run with
the thresher in his neighborhood
north of lone and has pulled in his
machine. Al states that he met with
a lot of trouble in getting grain
through the machine because of the
hrge amount of mustard in the straw.
This pest made a lot of extra work for
the threshers in different sections
hereabout.
H. C. Schumann arrived from Pen
dleton the first of the week and has
taken a permanent position in the
store of Bert Mason. Mr. Schumann
was formerly with Alexander's De
partment Stores in Pendleton, is a
man of much experience in his line,
and will have charge of the dry goods
department of the Mason store. His
family will join him later.
Lloyd E. Gandy, an attorney of
Spokane, was in lone over Sunday
looking after some realty holdings
he has here. He is the owner of
what is known as the Turner place
about twelve miles north of lone.
Mr. Gandy is a prominent citizen of
Spokane and was a candidate before
the late primaries there for congress
man. Bob Hopkins and Art Crawford
were lone visitors Sunday. The for
mer was able to return home on Sun
day evening, but the later was detain
ed until Monday afternoon, presuma
bly on account of being unable to
raise the wherewith to pay transpor
tation charges on the local.
The family of A. Millard are new
arrivals from Benton county and will
become permanent residents of lone,
living in town for the winter. They
have rented what ls known as the St.
Clair place from the Oregon Dakota
Land Company and will become
farmers of Morrow county.
Mrs. E.' R. Lundell is suffering the
fracture of an ankle, the result of
slipping while attempting to get a
way from an unruly milk cow one
evening last week. The injury will
keep her confined for some time to
her home,
Chas. Devln was In town Wednes
day. He has finished his threshing
and will now proceed to get the bal
ance of his wheat crop down to the
station. He is well pleased with re
sults this season and starts a new
year with Increased vigor.
McEntlre Bros., sheepman of the
Cecil country, are negotiating for a
black of three sections of the Oregon
Dakota Land Company holdings some
sixteen miles north of lone, which
land they wish to purchase for sheep
range,
(Continued on Page Five),
ER
E
Chas. W. Fulton of Portland Will Be
in Heppner On Monday Erei.'n.,
October 16 On Behalf oi the Can
didacy of Mr. Hughes.
Fill
SENATOR
TO AO
'The first big gun of the presiden-itlon read as follows: Since there is
tial campaign in Heppner will be no Lyceum course this year the pro
fired on the night of October 16, un-jfessors thought it would be a good
j , , . , ., , , 'plan for each high school to prepare
der the marksmanship of the local r . ... .. ,
an evenings entertainment and pre
Republican County Central Commit- gent one night in each of the town3
tee. On this night, Hon. Chas. W. Do this say two or three times during
Fulton, former United States Senator
from Oregon will address the people
of Morrow County.
, A big rally is being arranged for
that date and everyone is extended a
cordial invitation by the committee
. , .
to be present.
o indication of the popularity of
Charles E. Hughes for president is
found in the tremendous demand for
Hughes buttons. This demand has
been so much greater than anticipat
ed that it has been impossible to sup
ply them. -
Jn a letter to Worth Harvey, secre
tary of the Cottage Grove Hughes
club, Edward D. Baldwin, secretary of
the state committee, writes:
"Yours of September 14, request
ing buttons at hand. The same press
ing demand exists all over the state.
"The national committee decided
to allow only 5000 buttons to each
congressional district in the United
States, which would entitle us to 15,-
000 as our quota. We succeeded in
getting them to send us 25,000, which
lasted only four days. We tried to
get 25,000 more but were flatly re
fused.
"Our committee has ordered made
in Portland and paid for 20,000 but
tons and we are entirely cleaned out.
This makes "45,000 which have been
distributed in Oregon." Cottage
iMe Sentinel. - -- ,
The local Hughes Alliance will
meet tomorrow night (Friday) at
the city council chambers, at which
time detailed arrangements for the
big rally of the 16th will be made.
A full attendance of the membership
is urged for this meeting.
Itunyan Gets Prison Term.
Charles E. Runyan, well known
cowboy, who was indicted by the last
grand Jury on a charge of assault
with a dangerous weapon, this morn
ing withdrew his plea of not guilty,
pleaded guilty and was sentenced to
the penitentiary from six months to
ten years. He made application for
parole and was given ten days in
which to prepare petitions in support
of the same.
Runyan last June shot George
Spearman, a colored cowboy, at a
round-up held on McKay creek by the
Indians. There had been bad blood
between the two and, when the col
ored man called the other a "sheep-
herder," Runyan drew his .44 re
volver and fired. The bullet passed
clear through Spearman's body, pene
trating the liver in its passage. He
was brought to the local hospital and
surprised even his physicians by re
covering. Runyan's plea of guilty makes It
probable that the fall term of court
will pass without a single criminal
case up for trial, something that has
not happened in many years. There
is one other case, that of Jesse Goff,
charged with dynamiting fish, pend
ing, but It is doubtful if it will be
ready If defendant decides to stand
trial. Pendleton E. O.
Runyan is well known here, where
he did considerable riding for al ocal
cattleman about two years ago. He
is a broncho buster of some note and
rode a few wild ones at the 1914 4th
of July celebration in lone.
ONLY TWO DAYS LEFT
IN WHICH TO REGISTER
Time In which to register for the
November election is nearly gone.
The books in the county clerk's office
will nose on Saturday evening, Oc
tober 7th. If registration is an In
dicatlon of the vote which will be cast
the election in this county will be a
quiet one. There are many citizens
who have not registered and unless
they avail themselves of the oppor
tunity presented in the remaining two
days, they will be unable to partici
pate n the election.
HIGH SCHOOL NOTES.
Wednesday was a day of events
in the high school. The day starting
out with reports from Garnett Barrett
and Edgar Copenhaver who attended
the State Fair at Salem last week.
The reports were very good, and we
take it that the boys had a very good
time. The next event of the day was
a student-body meeting right after
noon. The main question before the
students was whether the proposition
talked over by Mr. Hoffman and the
professors of lone and Lexington,
should be accepted or not. The ques-
the winter. The question was de
bated for quite a while and it was
finally decided to accept the proposi
tion. At this meeting the students
also elected a yell leader and a sec
retary for the Athletic Association.
I Miss Muriel McCarty was secretary of
I the Athletic Association but she
L,.,,,t u ,.. ,.. k ,,.,
ed in her resignation. The ones
elected were, Jared Aiken, yell lead
er and Vawter Crawford, secretary of
the Athletic Association. The last
event of the day was a bug hunt by
the Biology class. The students, in
this class went over in Black Horse
canyon where they got many good
specimens among them a live snake,
a couple of lizards and a scorpion.
They also enjoyed a little lunch, pre-
.Pared by the girls, while there.
On Friday of last week there wa3
a student-body meeting for the pur
pose of seeing whether the student
body should have a constitution and
by-laws or not, and it was decided
that the presidents of the different
classes should get together and draw
up the same. At this meeting it was
also decided that on Friday, Oct. 6,
there should be a student-body party
the main purpose of which is for the
students to get acquainted.
The foot ball showing is very good
at present, and we have promise of a
very good team. Our old man Hughes
is back on the job again this year and
we expect him to do some tall line
plunging this year. Lieuallen, Nic
holson and Peterson are three more
promising men we have this year.
There were only two days of school
last week on -account of the teachers,'
institute, which was held the first of
the week. This gave the students a
rest which they didn't especially need
but which was appreciated just the
same.
Max Rogers an old stundent of
Heppner high went to Seaside where
he will attend school this winter. We
are very sorry to lose him.
The forges have arrived for the
manual training department and we
expect the boys taking this work will
be busy before long.
Wednesday morning a 19 stared
the students in the face from the roof
of the old school house. We wonder
what this means.
NORTHWEST QUITS
Few Issues, and Those of Small Size,
Are to Be Submitted to Voters.
Doubtless because of the prevail
ing belief that it would be unwise
further to sketch the credit of the
people, there will be fewer proposals
to issue bonds submitted at the gen
eral election next month in Oregon
and Washington than fir several
years past. Heretofore in this state
it has been the practise at nearly
every election to vote on the question
of issuing bonds, either municipal,
county or port district, until the ag
gregate of bonded Indebtedness has
reached enormous proportions and
the yearly autlay for interest totals
millions of dollars, reflected in a con
siderable tax on every property owner
and indirectly on every inhabitant of
the non-txpaying class.
In Oregon, so far as is generally
known at this time, the only taxpay
ing districts which will vote on pro
posals to issue bonds will be Wheeler
county, for $S0,000 of bonds for per
manent highways and the city of Mc-
Minnville $90,000 for acquiring an
additional supply of water from
mountain sources.
In Washington, however, the dis
position to Incur large additional
bonded indebtedness is evident in the
proposals tobe voted upon at the
general election November 7, when
the city of Spokane will decide
whether to borrow $1,000,000 for
purchasing Bltec and erecting school
buildings and the city of Seattle will
determine on the issuing, of $3,000,
000 for waterworks purposes. Walla
Walla will vote on whether to issue
$338,000 on bonds to take up out
standing city warrants. In this case
the city's debt will not be increased.
PAIS
LAUD III ONE YEAR
Extreme Season Is Shown in Heppner
Section, Where Crops Are
Aided by Rains.
(Oregon Journal.)
Land that cost but $10 per acre
and the first crop gave forth value
four to six times the cost of the land
is the latest freak in the agricultural
world.
Rich bottom lands near Heppner
formerly used for grazing, have been
urned into wheat this year, according
to John Beckett, who has just re
turned from the harvest fields and is
on his way to the University of Ore
gon. "It is virgin land," said Mr.
Beckett. "And due to the late rains,
the first wheat crop is averaging be
tween 40 and 50 bushels to the acre.
Harvesting is only half over on ac
count of the late season."
The Becketts, who own acreage
near Heppner, recently bought halt a
section of the land at $10 per acre.
The result of sowing wheat is sur
prising, according to Becket. The ex
ceptional yield was due to the late
rains, but the trial has resulted in
many ranchers buying more land for
wheat raising. J. Jones, who is rais
ing oats in the same section, cut one
acre for measurement, and the crop
went 80 bushels to the acre. The
land from which the oats was taken
was also some of the cheapest bottom
lands formerly used for grazing.
Kirk-Devin.
Merle Kirk and Miss Altha Devln
were married in this city last Thurs
day and left at once for a week's
honeymoon visit in Portland. Mr.
Kirk is a prosperous young farmer
in the Sand Hollow country and the
bride is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
M. J. Devln of this city. She grad
uated from the Heppner high school
In the class of 1916, being one of the
popular students while attending that
institution. The young people were
given an enthusiastic welcome upon
their return to this city Wednesday.
They will make their home on Mr.
Kirk's Sand Hollow farm.
Winners of 1910 Round-Cp.
World's Championship Cowboys'
Bucking Contest. First Jackson
Sundown, Nespelem, Wash.
Second Rufus Rollens, Tulsa, Ok
lahoma. Third Broncho Bob Hall, Inde
pendence, Ore.
Bulldogging; First Frank Mc
Carroll, Pendleton, Ore.
Second Henry Warren, Victor,
Mont.
Third John Rick, Cheyene, Wyo.
Cowgirls' Bucking. First Katie
Wilkes, Miles City, Montana.
Second Peggy Warren, Victor,
Montana.
Third Eloise Hastings, Cheyene,
Wyoming.
Steer Roping. First George
Wier, Monument, N. M.
Second Ed McCarty, Chugwater,
Wyoming.
Third C. A. Byers, Mulhall, Okla.
Fourth D. E. Clark, Portland, Or.
Pony Express. First Floyd Ir
win, Cheyene, Wyo.
Second Allen Drumheller, Walla
Walla, Wash. J!J
Third D. Zedicar, Boise, Idaho.
Cowgirls' Relay. First Mabel De
Long, Walla Walla, Wash.
Second Bertha Blanchett, Pen
dleton, Ore.
Third Katie Wilkes, Miles City,
Mont. n
Cowboys' Relay. Forst Allen
Drumheller, Walla Walla, Wash.
Second Bob Liehe, Cheyene, Wyo.
Third D. Zedicar, Boise, Idaho.
Lytle Wins Damage Suit.
Dr. W. H. Lytle, state veterinorian
and formerly of Pendleton, was win
ner in the $50,000 libel suit brougth
against him by George R. Mokel for
an alleged defamatory letter written
by Dr. Lytle. The jury in Portland
yesterday found for the state veteri
narian after being out an houd and
ten minutes. A charge in the letter
to which Mokel objected was that the
writer had knowledge of Mokel's
dealing in tubercular cattle. Mokel
was nominated for postmaster of
North Portland and he alleges Lytle's
letter was a part of the campaign
against him. The case was decided
by stipulation by 11 jurors, one of the
jurors having been excused because
he was a seven day Adventlst and
did not wish to act on Saturday.-
Pendleton E. O,
